Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


lyGoogle 


J^ 


„  Google 


lyGoogle 


GLEANINGS 
for  the  curious 

Harvest-Fields  of  Literature. 

A  MEUHGE  OT  IKERFIA, 
■    C.   C.  BOMBAUGH,  A.M.,  M.  D. 


ilrhig  iiai  lies  liint,''' —Uoi 
AUTHOR'S   UNABRIDGED    EDITION. 


kavs  bri.^el't  nMmg  of 


HARTFORD,    CONN.: 
A,  D.  WoRTHiNGTON    &    Co.,  Publishers. 

ouiB  Lloyd  &  Co.,  Chiomw.    A.  L.  Bsncropt  &  Co.,  San  Fkabcisc 
A.  C.  Nhttibtoh  &  Co.,  Dhcinnati,  O.,  and  St.  Looia,  Mo. 


lyGoogle 


lyGoogle 


ilrefatorg. 


i  am  not  ignorant,  iie  wnsure,  tijat  mans  t&"e  are, 
beioxt  hiicse  si'sfit  tljis  ISoofe  Bfiall  Untie  small  flrati, 
anti  lessE-  fabcut.  So  iiart  a  tljins  it  is  to  totite  oc 
i-aaitt  ang  matter,  toijatsoEbet  it  be,  ttat  gftoiift  Ite  afilE 
fO  Bustaine  ant  a6iie  ffte  batiatile  juliflement,  anli  to 
olifainf  oc  toinne  tlje  constant  lobe  an^  allolnanre  of 
(tecs  man,  cspeciallB  ii  it  containe  in  it  ang  nobcltB  oc 
untoontei  stcangcnesse. — Ratnald's  Woman's  Book. 


lyClOOglC 


Bid  him  welcome.    This  is  the  motley-minded  gentleman. 

As  YoD  Like  It. 

A  fountain  set  round  With  a  rim  of  old,  mossy  stones,  and 

aved  in  its  bed  with  a  sort  of  mosaic  work  of  varioualy-colored 
^^^^^^-  House  of  Setek  Gables. 

— A  gatherer  and  a  disposer  of  other  men's  stuff. 

WOTTON. 

A  rimning  banquet  that  hi 


MjSSlKGEli, 

A  dinner  of  fragments  is  said  often  to  be  the  beat'  dinner.  So 
are  there  few  minds  but  might  fur niah.  some  instruction  and  en- 
tertainment out  of  their  aoraps,  their  odds  and  ends  of  thought. 

piece  of  patchwork ;  which  may  be  useful  and  not  without  a  charm 


It  is  ft  regular  omnibus ;  there  is  something  in  it  to  every- 
body's taste.  Those  who  like  fat  can  have  it ;  ao  can  they  who 
like  lean;  aa  well  as  those  who  prefec  sugar,  and  those  who 
choose  pepper.  MvaiiiBiES  or  Parts. 

Bead,  and  fear  not  thine  own  understanding;  this  book  will 
create  a  clear  one  in  thee ;  and  when  thou  hast  considered  thy 
purchase,  thou  wilt  call  the  price  of  it  a  charity  to  thyself. 

In  winter  you  may  reads  them  ad  ignem,  by  the  fireside,  and 
in  summer  ad  umbram,  under  some  ahadie  tree ;  and  therewith 
paase  away  the  tedious  howres.  Saltonstall. 


lyClOOglC 


INTRODUCTION. 


As  earlier  edition  of  GLSiHiNOS  liaring  attracted  the  hearty  appro- 
val ot  a  limited  eircloolthat  ote  of  rattler.  «ho  pniter  "aionniog 
hanqoet  that  hath  moeh  vmlely,  hot  lillle  of  a  .ort  »  tU.  pre.ont  p.h- 
llahe,  r^oestrf  the  pr.pa»tlo»  of  an  enlaw>ioe..l  of  the  work.  In 
th.  .«gm.nt«l  fo»n  in  which  it  is  no.  olTerjl  to  the  p.hho,  the  oon- 
,  illl  he  lOnnd  »  much  mot.  oomprehenerTe  and  ommfanou. 


IS  been  n 


n  sort  appear  to  be  as  aooep- 
In  tlie  yonthfol  j^riod  of  our 
,    When  hooks  n 


tents  win  oe  lou.iu  ou  ... -- ^ 

that,  while  it  has  heen  nearly  donhled  u 
donhled  in  Uterary  value. 

Miscellanea  of  the  omnium-gather 
tahle  to-day  as  they  undouhtedly  we 

Uterature,  though  for  an  opposite  reiw. 7"    V  1      ,.      .    _.^ 

urdtostly,  and  lna(«!essihl.,  anilous  K«ler.  found  m  seiip.eia[> 
ologW  iultilirlou.«.un,e,of  lostruotloni  now  ttat  b»ks  .ro  l.ke 
the  stars  tot  multitude,  the  reader  who  I.  appalled  hy  tlrar  endless 
.u»«.loh  and  variety  is  fain  to  r«elve  with  thjukfUlness  the  ™«u 
that  is  «tlmm»l  and  the  grain  that  is  slM  by  palent  hand,  ftr 
his  use  Our  ancestors  were  regaled  with  such  olla-podrida  as  The 
(Mlmaolty  i  .  Bekshaw  err.  I«il«  c»<.«l  T~t  "Mch  comprehend, 
odd  hits  and  scps,  «.d  odds  and  end. ;»  or  "  The  W.  M.scilany : 
odd  «.d  untonmon  epigrams,  iceliou.  drollene.,  whlmsic.1  moltos^ 
merry  talc,  ai  ilihli.,  for  the  entmtainment  and  diversion  ol  good 
company."  To  the  pnsent  generation  1.  accorded  a  wider  «.ld  for 
excursion  from  the  CnriosWes  of  Dist«>li,  and  the  Commonphras  ot 
Southey,  to  the  less  amhitiou.  colleclion.  of  less  learned  colhiboratora. 
"Into  a  holch-potoh,"  mys  Br  Edward  Coke,  "is  commonly  put  not 
one  thing  alone,  hut  on,  thing  with  other  things  together.  The 
proant  volume  1.  an  .xirti.nt  for  gmuplng  togctba-  a  T«ie  y  which 
wiU  ho  fomid  in  no  other  compilation.  From  the  nonsense  of  literary 
trUiog  to  the  high.!*  e«pression  of  intellectual  force;  from  the 
anachronisms  ot  art  to  the  grandct  revelations  of  i«.e,ioe!  from 
.,l«,tion.  for  the  child  to  eitracf  for  the  philo-pher,  it  will  »com- 
modat.  til.  widest  divcrity  of  ta.te,  and  fnrolsh  entertamn.ent  foral 
ages  seies,  and  conditions.    A.ap«.tlm«  fortheIei.un>half-hour,  at 


lyGoogle 


"  INTRODUCTION. 

home  Of  abroad ;  as  a  compaj.ioi.  by  the  fireside,  or  ffio  seaside,  amid 
the  hum  of  the  city,  or  in  the  solitude  of  rural  hfe;  as  a  means  of  tv- 
laJtation  for  the  mind  jaded  by  business  attivities  it  ii  ay  be  safcU 
commended  to  acceptance. 

The  aim  of  this  collation  is  not  to  be  exhaustive  but  smiply  tc  he 
well  compacted.  The  restrictive  limita  of  an  octa,vi  require  the 
winnowiiigs  of  selecfloii  in  place  of  tiie  bulk  of  expansion  Gir 
gantua,  we  are  told  by  Eabelais,  wrote  to  his  son  Pantagruel 
commandiiiK  him  to  learn  Greek,  Latin,  Chaldaii  and  Arabi:-  ill 
history,  eeometry,  arithmetic,  music,  astronomy,  natural  philosophy, 
etc.,  so  that  there  be  not  a  river  in  the  world  thou  dost  not  know 
the  name  and  nature  of  all  its  fishes ;  all  the  fowls  of  the  au' ;  aU  the 
several  kinds  of  shrubs  and  herbs ;  all  the  metals  hid  in  the  bowels  of 
the  earth,  all  gems  and  precious  stones.  I  would  furthermore  have 
tliee  study  the  Talmudists  and  Cahalists,  and  get  a  perfect  knowledge 
If  „,».,     lu  brief,  I  would  have  thee  a  bottomless  pit  of  all  knowl- 


While  this  book  d 


s  not  aspire  to  such  Gaj^ntuan  compre- 


hensiveuESS,  it  seeks  a  higher  grade  of  merit  than  that  which  atf^lies 
to  those  who  "chronicle  small  beer,"  or  to  him  who  is  merely  "a 
snapper-up  of  unconsidered  trifles." 

Quaint  old  Burton,  in  describing  the  travels  of  Paulus  Emilius, 
says,  "  He  took  great  content,  exceeding  delight  in  tliat  his  voyage,  as 
who  doth  not  that  shall  attempt  the  like?  For  peregrination  charms 
our  senses  with  such  unspeakable  and  sweet  variety,  that  some  count 
hiia  unhappy  that  never  traveled,  a  kind  of  prisoner,  and  pity  Ins 
case  that  from  his  cradle  to  his  old  age  beholds  the  same  still ;  still, 
still,  the  same,  the  same."  It  is  the  purpose  of  these  Glbanikqs  to 
compass  such  "sweet  variety"  by  conducting  the  reader  here,  througli 
the  green  lanes  of  freshened  thought,  and  there,  through  by-paths 
neglected  and  gray  with  the  moss  of  ages ;  now,  amid  cultivated 
fields,  and  then,  adown  nntrodden  ways;  at  one  time,  to  rescue  from 
oblivion  fi^tive  thoughts  which  the  world  should  not  "willingly  let 
die,"  at  another,  to  restore  to  sunlight  gems  which  have  been  too  long 
"  underkept  and  down  supprest."  The  compiler  asks  the  tourist  to 
accompany  hmi,  becatise  with  him,  as  with  Montaigne  and  Hans 
Andersen,  there  Is  no  pleasure  without  communication,  and  though 
all  men  may  find  in  these  Collectanea  some  filings  which  they  will 
recognize  as  old  acqu^ntances,  yet  will  they  find  many  more  with 
which  they  are  unfamiliar,  and  to  which  thefr  attention  has  never 
been  awakened. 


lyGoogle 


"^ahlc  of  (Bontcny. 


aipljaftetlcal  aaftims. 


THE  literary  follies  known  as  Lipogrammata,  and  Pangrammata  ;— 
In  the  first,  a  particulac  letter  is  dropped;  in  the  second,  all  the 
lettei's  of  the  alphabet  are  crowded  into  single  verses  or  sentence;  or, 
one  vowel  may  be  retained,  to  the  exclnsion  of  all  the  other  vowols.- 
Diversions  of  alphabetic  humor,  especially  of  the  aspu'ate  n.-ZTni- 
vocalic  Verse.— AUUeraH&n.~Acro3tic,-  aitiflcial  arrange- 
ment of  this  old-fashioned,  yet  still  popular  form  of  verse ;  sometimes 
(toubled  in  the  middle  or  reversed  in  the  end,  as  in  the  telistich ;  som^ 
times  used  to  point  alliteration  or  pasquinade ;  sometimes  constructed 
in  emblematic  forms— -Inoffrffiw,  with  its  transposition  of  the  letters 
of  a  name,  so  as  to  frame  a  new  word,  caustJc,  or  complimentary,  or 
purely  whimsical.— CAfO»Offm»»,  by  means  of  which  a  data  or 
epoch  is  expi-essed  in  the  Soman  nnraeral  letters  which  occur  m  the 
course  of  an  inscription,  title,  or  dedication 

^aUnlreome». 

FEW  words  in  any  language  spolM  backwards  the  same  as  for- 
wrfs,  althoiigh  emry  langnage  offm  facilitlea  fcr  re.ersrWe  l.n.s 
or  ^.eises  -Specimens  of  tire  paiindromic  writing  of  literary  tnllei^.- 
Sonretimes  called  Sotitie  lerw.  fm  Sotades,  the  Inventor.-The  com- 
plet,  tevereal  of  n,«itiing  which  freq.e.tly  oco...  on  the  baelward  wad- 
ing, also  called  Sidonlan  verse,  soch  having  been  «tsl  co.stn.etel  by 
Sidonius 

Bnuiliotitte. 

OROSS-EEADINGS  with  their  two-told  meaning,  a  wnvenicnt 
vehicle  for  the  tran.n.l..ion  of  mesei^c.  under  the  dtsgu...  of  ex- 
pressions of  opposite  signilioation.-lllnstrative  of  this  form  of  iixots  a 


lyGoogle 


Vlll  CONrENTS. 

doaUe  entente,  aro  Richeliei;'a  Ictfer  of  introduction.— Lose-leflcr  subler- 
fiiges— Tlie  Jesuit's  CreeJ,  as  it  was  fomierlj  called.— Verses  adspted 
to  either  side  in  the  American  Bevolutionary  war,  the  English  conten- 
tion between  the  Stnart  party  and  the  Hanover  party,  the  French  Eev- 
olntton,  and  the  late  sectional  war  in  the  United  States.— The  ingenui- 
ties of  non-committal 64 

LITEEAKY  Mosaics  afford  instructive  as  well  as  entertaining  pas- 
time. In  framing  such  patch  work,  so  many  authors  must  be 
consulted  that  the  labor  is  both  pleasing  and  profitable.  The  cento  de- 
serves to  be  assigned  a  higher  rank  than  that  of  mere  literary  confec- 
tionery  ■' 73 

IHacatonic  Vtxu, 

HE  ivriting  of  macaronic  poetry,"  says  Hallam,  (Middle  Ages,) 


"T 


a  folly  with  which  every  nation  has  been  inoculated  ir 
turn." — The  sandwiching  or  intermingling  of  one  language  with  an- 
other said  to  bear  the  same  relation  to  literature  that  opera  bouffe  docs 
to  music.— Dr.  Maginn's  pleasant  expedient  of  translating  alternate 
lines  of  a  favorite  poem,  as  a  sort  of  burlesque  on  its  stately  march.     78 

<ffifjaitt  Uerse. 

FEW  good  specimens  extant  of  this  conceit,  in  which  the  last  word 
of  every  line  or  verse  is  used  as  the  first  word  of  the  following 
line.     Claimed  as  a  French  singularity,  but  never  favorite  with  the 

EHYMED  ends,  to  be  filled  up  as  agreed  upon,  at  one  time  a  fash- 
ionable pa.stime.     As  an  intellectual  amu.sement,  worthy  of  more 
attention  in  social  life  than  is  accorded  to  it  at  the  present  time,  .  .  !*S 

JEmtlnnatic  ^Joctrj. 

THE  fashion  of  torturing  vetses  into  fantastic  forma  mostly  in  vogue 
two  centnries  ago,  when  it  was  a  common  custom  among  the  wits 
and  scribblers  to  siiape  their  efFusions  in  the  form  of  hearts,  wings,  aliai-s, 
love-knots,  and  all  sorts  of  grotesqnes ;  the  device,  of  course,  adapted 
to  the  subject. — Curious  piece  of  antiquity  on  the  crucifixion  of  our 
Siiviour  and  the  two  thieves.- The  humors  of  cypher  or  typographic 
symbol  writing 92 


lyGoogle 


FORCE  and  irapressiveness  of  monoByllabic  words. — Examples 
from  hymnology,  from  the  lioly  5Criptuii:s,  from  jiotlrj  anil  dra- 
niiLtic  writings. — Short  worils,  instead  of  producing  dullness,  may  be 
used  to  impart  "strength,  and  life,  and  fire  to  the  verse  of  those  wiio 
know  how  to  use  fhem." — Lines  on  the  "power  of  short  words."  .    98 

Kfie  iSitlf. 

ACCURACY  of  the  historical  books  of  the  Old  Testament.— 
Their  cottfirmation  by  the  progressiva  results  of  modern  explora- 
tion and  discoveiy-— Testimony  as  to  the  wisdom  and  sublimity  of  Hic 
Bible  from  Sir  William  Jones,  Bousbcbu,  Wilberfbrce,  Bolingtirolto, 
Daniol  Wetister,  J.  Q,  Adams,  Addison,  and  others. — The  various  Eng- 
lish translations,  from  Wiekliffs,  in  1384,  to  the  version  of  King  James 
in  1611. — NumericiU  dissection  of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments. — The 
distinctions  partienlarly  observable  in  tlie  gospels. — Books  i-efecred  to 
in  the  Bible  which  have  been  lost. — The  word  "Selah"in  thoPsalms. — 
Hexametrie  rhythm  in  the  sacred  writings. — The  parallelism  of  the 
Hebrew  poetry,  with  illustrations  of  the  artificial  stmcture  which  aims 
at  a  regular  and  impressive  alternation  and  correspondence  of  parts. — 
Parallels  between  Shaftspeare  and  the  Bibie,  showing  how  the  greatest 
dramatic  poet  of  all  time  was  largely  indebted  to  the  sacred  scriptures 
for  many  of  his  illustrations,  feelings,  and  expressions. — Superiority  of 
sacred  composition  shown  in  answer  to  the  question,  who  is  the  true 
geutleman  ? — Misquotations  from  the  scriptures. — References  to  the 
humor  which  is  to  be  found  in  the  Bilile — The  form  of  divination  called 
Bibliomiincj,  wliicli  was  abolished  centuries  ago 10.3 

^Ije  Wamc  of  Sot. 

i  name  of  God  spelled  ivith  four  letters  in  almost  every  language. 

-The  Hebrew  appellaiious  of  Deity  in  the  Old  Testament,  and 
their  aistiactive  points. — Frequent  use  of  the  name  of  the  Divine  Being 
ill  Shakspeare's  works.— The  emblematic  Sun  of  the  Parsee,  the  Jehovah 
Adonai  of  the  Israelite,  the  Father  of  the  Christian 127 

I.  ffi.  S. 

THE  initial  letters  of  Jesus  Hominam  Salvator,  designed  by  St.  Ber- 
nardine;  first  used  in  1347,  over  the  principal  entrance  of  Santa 
Croce,  in  Florence. — The  Flower  of  Jesse — I'erses  in  homely  phrase  that 
were  popular  three  and  a  half  centuries  ago. — Legend  of  the  fair-haired 


T' 


lyGoogle 


boy  of  twelve  who  astonished  the  doelorB  in  Ck  court  of  the  Temple. — 
Eastern  fa,U6  lo  show  that  the  eompassionato  Jesus  could  find  something 
to  pity  and  approve  even  in  a  dead  dog. — Personal  appearance  of  the 
Saviour. — The  warrant  signed  by  Pontius  Pilate  for  the  crucifixion. — 
Symbol  of  the  cross  known  and  nsed  in  Central  America  long  before  the 
arrival  of  Cortez ; 130 

E^p  ilarJi's  ^ragci:. 

THE  two  divisions  of  the  prayer, — one  relating  to  the  gloiy  of  God, 
the  other  to  the  wants  of  man,  especially  man's  need  of  spiritual 
blessings  in  preference  to  temporal  good. — The  admirable  and  compre- 
hensive spirit  of  the  prayer. — Golliie  version  of  the  fourth  century.^ 
Metrical  versions  and  paraphraaes,  in  which  the  several  parts,  Ihe  invo- 
cations, the  petitions  and  ihe  conclusion  or  dosology,  are  carefully  pre- 
served.— Scriptural  illnstrations. — Accostical  and  Echo  paraphrases.  136 

SBcclPsfasiicae. 

ility  in  the  reign  of  Charles  II. — . 

ts,  "He  that  givoth  to  the  poor 
lendeth  to  the  I*i-d,"  and  "Man  ia  bom  to  trouble." — Dodd's  extem- 
pore sermon  on  "Malt." — Oratorical  style  of  Bascom,  the  Keotncky 
preacher. — Psalm  cxiv.  in  the  Wiltshire  dialect. — Absurd  fashions  pre- 
vailing among  the  preachers  of  Cromwell's  time; — "Ornaments"  of 
speech  which  to-day  would  provoke  coniemptnous  laughter. — Origin 
of  texts  traceable,  according  to  the  book  of  Nehemiah,  to  Ezra. — Bidieu- 
lons  blanders  of  ignorant  clergymen. — Stealing  a  sermon  and  its  detec- 
tion.— Whitelield's  dramatic  power  in  the  pulpit. — John  Knox's  formula 
for  Pi'otestant  e: 


^uritau  ^erultarities. 

8INGULAKITIES  in  the  manners  and  habits  of  the  English  non- 
conformists one  of  the  most  noticeable  a  fondness  for  names 
expressive  of  faionte  qualities  or  principles. — Similes  used  in  their  daily 
prayers  and  exhortations  — Forms  of  punishment  inflicted  in  Massaehu- 
setts  Ibr  departure  irom  the  observances  of  the  sect. — Penakies  pre- 
scribed in  Vinfiuia  for  disregard  of  church  discipline. — Extracts  from 
the  Blue  Laws  ot  Connecticut  showing  the  nature  of  their  injunctions 
and  prohibitions  150 

paronomasia. 

THE  philosjphj  of  iramng— The  place  of  the  pun  in  the  renlm  of 
wit.— Common  among  the  ancients,  and  still   common   among- 


lyGoogle 


Oriental  jiatio^is,— A  pim-gcnt  cliapter,  with  amusing  and  felicitous 
illuatratioua  in  ^rosc  and  vcrsu;  espetiallj  noticeable  is  the  Plaint  of 
the  Old  Pauper,  Boofc-Larcenj,  the  Vegetable  Girl,  Epitaph  on  an  Old 
Horse,  and  a  Grand  Scheme  of  Emigration.— In  Theodore  Hook's 
"  Perilona  Practice  of  Punning,"  the  humorist  is  particularly  happy  in 
the  number  and  variety  of  the  puns  which  he  has  congregated  together. 
Dean  Swift's  Latin  puns,  which  consist  of  a  juroble  of  Latin  words 
running  into  each  other;  pronounced  as  English,  they  malie  good 
sense. — Classical  puns  and  mottoes  — Punning  mottoes  of  the  English 
peerage.— ./e'te-rfe-ma's,  exhibiting  ingenious  iteratives,  and  other 
playful  liherties  with  words 155 

Bnglisl)  fflSaotiiB  ant)  jForms  of  J5xpwB0ion. 

DIFFERENCE  between  dictionary  English  and  colloquial  EngUsh; 
the  words  used  in  common  speaking  loss  than  five  thousand  in 
number,— The  Latin  and  Anglo-Saxon  elements  of  the  language  com- 
pared.— Sources  of  the  language. — Curiosities  of  nouns  of  multitude.^ 
Disraali's  inexcusably  rude  handling  of  the  mother  tongue. — The  words 
ytSoxthe;  its;  that,  etc,— The  multiform  pronunciation  of  oujJ. — The 
words  excise ;  pontiff;  rough. — Words  mistakenly  acconnted  as  Ameri- 
canisms.— The  misunderstood  phrases,  "no  love  lost  between  them,' 
and  "  the  forloiu  hope."— The  word  "quiz,"- Tennyson's  English.- 
Misapplication  of  the  quotation,  "  That  mine  adversary  had  written  a 
book."— Odd  changes  of  signification  in  various  other  wortls.— The  in- 
fluence of  names  upon  human  action  or  inaction. — The  old  use  of  com- 
pound epithets,  or  words-in-one-brealh-unuttenible,  as  Ben  Johnson 
calledtbem 182 

Eall  fflSarifing. 

THE  tenebrosity  versus  the  ilKiminosity  of  pomposity  in  verbosity,  as 
shoivn  in  the  Domicile  erected  by  John. — In  advertising  and  episto- 
lary exuberance  of  langni^. — In  the  flashes  of  a  mad  poet. — InFooto's 
funny  faiTago.— In  burlesque  of  tha  style  of  Samuel  Johnson.— In  eulogy 
and  correspondence. — In  the  brillant  effusions  of  the  Autocrat  of  the 
Breakfftfi (-Table.— In  the  form  of  a  chemical  and  an  finatomical  valen- 
tine.-:-In  a  lawyer's  ode  to  spring. — And  in  sonje  of  our  pristine 
proverbs  re-dressed 212 

jMrttic  ^ptosc. 

OW  prose  writers  sometimes  involuntarily  slide  into  rhythmic 
— Cowper's  jocular  rhymingletter  to  his  friend  Newton. 


H 


lyGoogle 


— Poetic-prope  pnssi^s  fiom  Irving  and  Disraeli. — Dickons'  tendencj  lo 
liipse  into  blank  verse  of  irregular  metre,  aa  shown  in  hie  doscripdons  of 
Nelly's  funeral,  and  Niagara. — Involnntiiry  versiflcation  in  our  transla- 
tion of  the  Bible. — Amusing  instances  of  unintentional  rhyming.  .  22-3 

er^c  J^umors  of  "tTetsification. 

THE  story  of  the  lovers  in  dllferene  moods  and  tenses. — The  fimny 
turns  that  may  bo  given  to  the  defects  of  stammering,  as  illustrated 
by  Saxe. — A  song  dovetailed  by  recitative. — Thoughts  suggested  by 
cradle  rocking. — Whaiely's  elegy  on  the  geologist  Bncklnnd. — A  reminis- 
cence of  Troy,  touching  upon  yegetarianiEra. — The  poet  Bryant  in  the 
cliaraetei-  of  a  Buccessful  caricaturist. — Acknowledgment  of  the  receipt 
of  a  rare  pipe. — A  lesson  in  acoustics  and  the  mechanism  of  the  human 
eir  —Sir  Tray ;  a  very  clever  burlesque  on  Tennysonian  idyllics— The 
citalogue  of  ologiea  from  A  to  Z. — Variafaona  of  musical  composition 
■id  ipted  bv  Punch  to  poctiy. — Reiterations  of  vocal  mnsic,  and  their 
un  xpectcd  effects  upon  listeners. — Thecurse  of  the  harperO'Kellj.  230 

string  of  Hibemicisms  in  a  letter  of  an  Irish  M.  P.  to  a  friend.— 
i_  The  Irish  propensity  to  blnnder  matched  elsewhere,— Not  only 
c.iiiibiled  in  onlinary  conversation  and  miting,  but  in  the  works  of  the 
best  an  tho  IS  .-Irish  bulls  and  bulls  thiit  are  not  Irish 252 

Muntstxs, 

SLIPS  of  tho  press;  illustrations  of  typographic  enor. — Mistakes 
of  telegraphic  communication. — Hoiv  novelists  sometimes  foi^et- 
fully  make  statements  in  one  chapter  irreconcilable  with  stiitements  in 
a  succeeding  chapter.— Mistakes  of  ignorance  and  illiteracy.- Blunders 
made  by  trafflslators 259 

ittisquofations. 

THE  mistakes  in  qnotation  frequently  miide  by  writers.— Volumi- 
nous authors  particularly  noticeable  for  errors  of  this  sort — Sadler 
on  Cruilishank. — Byron  misquoting  Sonthcy 266 


A  ^ 


jFatirications, 


I   devotees  of  Carlyle. — Jlrs.  Ileman's  capital 
's  improvised  Greet,— Spurious  ballads.— Prank- 


lyGoogle 


lin's  Parable  pretundedly  quoted  from  the  Boul;  of  GcrPBis.— Ivcl.iinl's 
Shaksiieave  Forgeries ^'^^ 

iTattxxuptti  ^entcncES. 

THE  amuBing  efftcta  aometimeB  resulting  from  momentiirily  mter 
rupted  Bentencea  in  dialogue,  or  from  concluding  a  seni^iice  upon 
the  following  page  of  a  letter.— The  old  illnettation  of  the  silly  and 
trivial  canaea  which  somelimea  load  to  long  and  exhausling  wars.— The 
favorite  joke,  "  lo  lie— under  a  mistake."— Amusing  interruption  in  the 
British  Houae  of  Commons 

3Bri)o  Vnse. 


T^EMAEKS  upon  this  favorite 


^Introduction  into  a 
.til  juvenile  address  t«  Qneen  Elizabeth.- London  before  the  Reslo- 
ration.— A  song  of  Addison— A  Ketherland  pasquinade,— Echo  show- 
ing the  true  teachings  of  the  "Gospel  plan."— Echo  answering  the 
lover.-Deati  SwitVs  verses  on  woman.— Napoleon's  interview  with 
echo,  which  cost  a  Nuremburg  pnblisher  his  life— Echo  answenngs— 
Mention  of  the  localities  of  the  most  remarkable  echoes  known— Extra- 


funics. 

THE  utility  as  well  as  the  entertainment  of  puzzles ;  their  solution 
exercise  for  the  mind  as  gymnastics  are  for  the  body.— Fondness 
of  the  French  for  this  species  of  amusement.— Key  to  the  cipher  used 
by  Jionaparla  in  confidential  eon-espondence.- A  case  for  the  lawyers. 
-Riddles  of  Newton,  Cowper  and  Canning.— The  prize  enigma.— 
Quincy's  comparison.— Singular  resalts  of  inlermarriago.- Mysterious 
number  of  the  apocalyptic  beast  in  Kev.  eh.  xiii.— Galileo's  logograph 
on  the  rings  of  Saturn.— Persian  riddles— Punch's  Chinese,— Ben 
Johnson's  ridicule  of  the  rebna  in  The  A!chemist.—Th.e  "Book  of  Meiry 
Riddles"  referred  U)  by  Shakspeare.— Wilbeiftrce's  puzzle.- Curiosities 
of  Cipher  wridng,  with  illustrations 290 

WHY  the  Germans  eat  Saner-Kraut- Why  Penniiylvanitt  settled. 
—Why  Huguenots  so  called.— Why  Boston  so  named,- Sym- 
bolism of  weathercoeka.— Reason  for  disinheritance  with  a  shilling.— 
The  red  hat.— How  Queen  Bess  "banged"  the  Armada.— Why  the 
ouack  succeeds.- Genealogies]  distinctions -Solution  of  a  juggler's 
mystery ' 310 


lyClOOglC 


THE  rhyming  calendai'.— The  Salmonia  of  Sir  Humphrey  Davj.— 
Wcatlier  signs  from  Jenner,  the  Shepherd's  Calendar  of  1683,  and 
other  sources. — The  "  evil  days  in  each  month,"  from  the  Saruiii 
Missal 317 

®.  S-  an*  il.  Si. 

THE  Gregorian  calendar,  a  conection  of  the  Julian  Calendar— Not 
adopted  in  England  until  1752. — Humerons  address  to  the 
patrons  of  "  Poor  Job's  Almanac  "  on  the  result  of  the  change  in  the 
style 3:;5 

iMlemovia  STcdinica. 

THK  n^mes  and  order  of  the  boolts  of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments 
rhymed  to  facilitate  reeolleetion. — Also  the  plays  of  Shakapeare, 
the  Sovereigns  of  England,  the  Presidents  of  the  United  States,  the 
Decalogue,  the  grammatical  parts  of  speech,  and  the  number  of  days 
in  each  month 327 

©rigin  of  ffCi^lngs  jFamiliar. 

THE  reputed  origin  of  the  folhiwing  phrnses,  cttstoms,  uses  and 
usa^'es,  ways  and  means  : — Mind  your  P's  and  Q's ;  All  Fools' 
Day ;  cards ;  sub  roaa ;  over  the  loll ;  kicking  the  bucket ;  bnmper ; 
dun;  humbug;  pasquinades;  bottled  ale;  the  potato;  tarring  and 
feathering;  stockings;  the  garter;  drinking  hcalthfl;  feather  in  one's 
cap  ;  the  word  book ;  nine  tailors  make  a  man  ;  viz. ;  signature  of  Ihe 
Cross;  the  Turkish  crescent;  postpaid  envelopes  ;  OM  Hundred;  La 
MarseillMse ;  Yankee  Doodle;  tho  American  Flag ;  Brother  Jonathan  ; 
Uncle  Sam;  the  doilar  mark;  origin  of  various  inventions  and  cus- 
tpaiB ;  cock-fighting ;  turncoat ;  India-rqbber ;  friction  matches ;  the 
fl^  of  England;  bine-stocking;  skedaddle;  foolscap  paper. — First 
things,  including  notices  of  the  first  of  the  following  :—tbrged  bank- 
notes;  piano-fortes;  doctors;  thank^ving  proclamations;  prayers  in 
Congress;  reporters;  epigrams;  newspapers;  steam  printing;  tele- 
graphic  messages 331 

liotiiing  Ncto  mnJct  fljc  Suit. 

STRADA'S  description  of  the  loadstone  and  ifs  poiver  of  poramuni- 
eating  intelHgenco;  the  latter  based  upon  tho  erroneous  idea  of 
nagnetized  needles  of  a  homogeneous  impiils 


lyGoogle 


leading  to  Bympathetic  coi-resiwnilence  of  motion. —Losmond'a  alphabet 
of  motions.— Blasco  de  Guerere's  steamboat  in  1 543.— Solomon  de  Co3t*'s 
axneiiments  Witt  steam-power  in  1637. — James  Wntt's  patent  in  1769. — 
John  Gcegorie's  deraonatration  of  the  navigability  of  the  air.— Lana's 
-  scheme  of  an  air-ahip.- ITie  diculation  of  the  blood  pointed  out  by 
Longinus  long  before  the  Christian  era.- The  employment  of  anEeathe- 
tic  agents  refeiTed  to  by  Herodotus,  and  numbers  of  subsequent  writers. 
—The  boomerang  noticeQ  by  Pliny.— Early  observations  of  the  attrac- 
tion of  gravitation.— Early  invention  of  rifling.— Tablo-mofing  and 
alphabet-rapping  la  the  fourth  contnry.— Eobei't  Hook's  intimations  of 
the  value  of  auscultatiou.— The  stereoscope  anticipated,- Pi-cdictions  of 
the  discovery  of  America 

^Triump^s  of  fingntuitg. 

LEVEEKIER'S  diacovery  of  the  planet  Neptune,— Lescaibcnu It's 
discovery  of  the  intra-Mercurial  planet  Vulcan.— Columbus'  lucky 
use  of  his  calealation  of  an  eclipse  of  the  moon.— Great  results  from 
Smal!  beginnings.- Choice  of  a  ruler.— Baliad  of  King  John  and  the 
Abbot,  shoH-ing  ho«'  the  latter  wiis  extricated  from  a  serious   difti- 
jj.  39i) 

Ctjp  J^amiES  ot  ,ifact. 

THE  anatomical  position  of  Cffisar'a  wounds.- The  curiosities  of 
painters'  and  carpenters'  church  bills.— Law  lo^c.— Eecipi-ocal 
conversion  of  Protestant  and  Romanist.— Astley's  prayer  on  the  eve 
of  battle.— Sunlight  v-ieiv  of  Melrose  Abbey.— Legal  dexterity.— Audi- 
toriums of  the  last  century.- Tme  form  of  the  Cross.— Cases  of  singu- 
lar coincidence.— Formative  process  of  the  chick  in  the  e^.— An 
observant  Indian  snake-tamer.— AlUgatoi-a  increasing  their  weight  by 
swallowing  sHjnas.- ImiUtive  habits  of  sheep.— Remarkable  equestrian 
performances.— Banks's  horse  Moi-occo,  referred  to  in  Shakspeare's 
Love's  Labor  Lost,  I.  2.— Combination  look.— Wonderful  rapidity  in 
the  manufacture  of  doth.— Ditference  between  the  value  of  crude  mate- 
rial and  that  of  wrought  material.— Relation  of  value  to  quantity.— 
Amount  of  gold  in  the  world.— Evidences  of  the  immense  wealth  of  the 
Romans.- Wine  at  two  millions  a  bottle.- The  tuns  of  Heidelbei^  and 
Koningstein.- Unnatural  development  of  the  iaculties  shortlived.— 
Black  Hole  of  Calcutta,  in  which  a  captured  English  garrison  was 
asphyxiated.— Finland  baromcKr.- Bitterness  of  strychnia.  Biunders 
and  anachronisms  of  painters.- Achievements  in  minute  mechanism.— 


lyClOOglC 


XVI  CONTENTS, 

Eatio  of  the  diameter  to  the  oircumfereiioe. — Mathematical  prodigies. — 
Instances  of  wonderfnl  memoiy. — Delicate  compliment. — Calculation 
of  the  dimensions  of  heaven. — Estimate  of  the  cost  of  Solomon's  Temple. 
—Curiosities  of  the  numbers  seven,  three,  and  nine. — Kalddoscopic  ca- 
pacity.— Size  of  Noah's  ark  compared  with  tliat  of  the  Great  Eastern. — 
Vast  diversjtj'  in  colors. — Meteoric  stones. — Fate  of  America's  discov- 
erers.— Pacts  about  the  Presidents. — The  croivn  of  England. — Female 
army  in  China. — The  Star  in  the  East  astronomically  considered  — 
Franklin's  costume  at  the  coni*t  of  Louis  XVI. — Instances  of  remarkable 
longevity. — Methods  and  means  of  recognition  in  doubtful  cases. — An 
old  form  of  matrimonial  vow. — Composition  during  dreams. — Singular 
facts  about  sleep. — Effects  of  opinm  and  East  Indian  hemp  on  the 
brain. — Effects  of  imaginative  fear. — Facial  expression. — A  literally 
broken  heart. — Alleged  instances  of  sensation  and  intelligence  after  be- 
hsading. — Strange  and  nnacconntable  character  of  many  special  antip- 
athies,— A  case  of  constitniional  sympathy. — Walking  while  blindfolded. 
— Cat's-eje  time-keepers. — A  relic  of  modem  superstition. — A  skull 
with  a  tongue  of  betrayal. — A  sentimental  highwHy  robber 406 


^inaulat  GTustoms. 


THE  skeleton  on  the  ancient  Egyptian  banquet  table,— The  messen- 
ger bird  of  the  Senecas. — Extreme  fondness  for  beauty  in  Carazan. 
— The  substratum  of  the  foundations  of  the  temples  of  the  Druids,— 
Fi'esh  meat  in  Abyssinia. — Osljak  compliments  to  slaughtered  bears. — 
Braman  method  of  rhinoplasty. — Catching  lions  by  the  tail  in  South 
Africa. — The  daily  avocations  of  high  life  in  the  fifteenth  century. — 
The  insertion  of  hair  in  waxen  seals. — Failure  of  maraage,  after 
publication  of  the  bands,  scorning  the  church, — Old  time  matrimonial 
advertisements 477 

HOOD'S  amusing  titles  for  a  sham  library  duor,, — Some  of  the 
jests  commonly  attributed  to  Hierocles,  the  Alexandrian  humor- 
ist,— Illustrations  of  brevity  in  communication. — The  point  of  a  joke 
presented  in  different  forms.— Old  Harry  and  Old  Nick.— The  syllogism 
of  Themistocles.— A  treacherous  friend. — How  the  Gascons  flourish 
their  trumpets. — Charles  Mathews's  astonishing  metamorphosis. — How 
an  Eastern  monarch  took  Seidlitz  powders. — A  relic  of  darkness,— 
Juvenile  association  of  ideas, — Sheridan's  hit  at  Mr.  Kobinson. — The 
Russian  jester,  Balakireff,  and  his  practical  jokes 482 


lyGoogle 


E\it  jFIasi)es  of  Mepattpe. 


a  tiiu  1 


,r[. — Cob  den 


CUEKAN  and  Bojle  RopIib. 
reproved.— Nayoleon  andtliePrassiiin  offlecr. -Making  gi 
lady.— No  pedlar's  road  to  Heaven.— Tlio  Quaker  and  tlie  thinlyelad 
lady.— Curran  al  che  Giiieiiwich  inn.- Thfjdore  Hook's  readj  wit.— 
RocheEter  and  Barrow.— Sboridan  and  the  windy  M.  P.— Walk  and 
converaation,- Onslow's  answer  to  an  appeal.— P«nn's  aversion  to 
emoking.- Expressiveness  of  letters.— Keppel  and  tlie  Dey  of  Algici's. 
— Thaceray  and  the  beggar-woman.— Dr.  B«id.— Scribe  and  the  Fre.ncli 
millionaire.— Voltaire  and  Hallet.— Bacon  and  Hogg.— Eldon's  jndfr 
ment.— Thackeray  handsomely  snnbbed.— Sptirgeon's  simile. —Ellen- 
borough's  crnsMng  particnUtrity ^9^ 

YIBTUES  and  vices  not  essentially  mnscnHne  or  feminine;  not 
the  quality  itself,  but  the  modification  of  the  qtiality  which  is 
raascHline  or  feminine.— Wordsworth's  "  Character  of  the  Happy  Wai^ 
rior"  altered  for  illustration  by  the  substitution  of  the  word  inomnn  for 
laarrior,  and  by  the  corresponding  change  in  the  pronoims,- Old  ballad 
in  praise  of  women.— Parallel  of  the  sexca.— John  Randolph's  opinion 
of  female  aoeietv.-The  terms  wif.wmistrcss-lady,  and  n  German 
m  hi'tiveeii  them  —St.  Leon's  toast  to  his  mother. -Ton ch- 
a  bride ''"^ 


ing  letter 


iKloslEin  ffl^isTiom. 


THE  just  judgment  of  All  in  the  settlement  ui  a  dis [in t«,— All's  t«n 
answers  to  as  many  questions  as  to  the  relatire  desirability  of 
wisdom  and  wealth.— Turkish  homicide  without  felonious  intent.— 
Omar's  reason  for  destroying,'  the  library  at  Aloxandrifl.— The  dervise's 
expedient  for  the  eqnitflble  division  of  property  accoriUng  to  llie 
pnizling  direction  of  the  taitator ''^' 

iBxwtiita  fxom  Persian  ^SoEtri). 

EARTH  an  iUnsion.— Hc^ivfu  an  echo  of  earth.— A  moral  atmo.- 
phere.— Fortune  and  worth —Brakcn  hearts.— The  generous  man. 
-Beauty's  prerogative. -P.md  hnmility.-Self-neglect.-The  imposs,- 
liility —Sober  drnnkenness.— A  wine-drinker's  metaphors.— Couplets 
ftoni  Mirlaa  Schaffj.— The  double  plot.-Tho  world's  un appreciation 
of  good  men,— Satan  rebuking  the  Caliph  for  slighted  prayer,  the 


lyClOOglC 


explflnatioTi  being  that  he  jirefen-eJ  proud  motith-servicc  to  the  poni- 
lanee  that  would  follow  neglect  ol  duty 511 

MARTIAL  on  epigrams. — Midas  and  modem  statesmen. — To 
sleep,— Ton  writer  of  tedious  epitaphs. — Pool  and  poet. — Duni 
vivimus.— To  Molly  AstoD.~To  our  bed.— Ignorance  and  arrogi^nce  — 
late  repentance.— Pale  and  red.— Mel^ng  snowflakea.— To  Wilton.— 
Bntlef's  monument. — Compliment  to  Pope. — Athol  brose. — Eternity,— 
Stolen  sermons. — To  an  author. — Frugal  Queen. — A  thick  pericranium. 
Giving  and  taking. — Eeady-mado  angel. — A  present  of  a  minnr.— To 
a  capiieious  friend. — Mendax. — On  Fell. — An  ill-read  lawyer. — Wo- 
man's will.— The  duke's  nose.— R«ciprocity.~Bad  songster.- A  bad 
fiddle. — Foot-man  vs.  toe-man. — Lady  Lovejoy. — Hot  com. — Wlieat- 
sheaves  for  bonnet  plumes. — Original  sin, — Wiiting  verses. — Prudent 
eimplicity. — To  a,  friend  in  diatrtsa. — IIo™  I's.  bacon. — A  warm  ieee]i- 
tion, — Medica!  advice. — A  dentist. — Goodenongh. — What  might  have 
been.- A  reflection.— The  woman  in  the  case — The  shear  blades.— 
Dux  and  Drakes. — Invisibility. — Imperaonality. — Affinity. — The  crier 
who  could  not  cry. — Paiaon  and  batcher. — The  oloeJt. — Mascaliiie 
attire. — Bow  and  quiver. — Widows. —Speeches  by  heart. — Webb  and 
Gould. — Can.?e  aud  effect. — Same  jawbone. — Punny  determination.^ — 
Marriage  i  la  mode. — Quid  pro  quo. — Woman,  pro  and  con. — Abamt- 
ance  of  fools. — The  world. — Terminei'  sans  oyer. — Double  vision  util- 
ized  , 51S 

SmpcomptUB. 

DR.  Youn^  r,  fehcilOuB  improvise  on  leluctintlj  leaimg  attractive 
compau  ouship  — Ben  Johnson  sm-i  I'l  ii  j  n,  >ut  hs  score  at  the 
Falcon  — Meliilles  mgenious  reply  to  Elizabeth — Bums  s  dioll  apon- 
tancoa,s  hits  — Wairen  Hasbngs  on  Burks  — Dr  Johnson  e  definitiOTi 
of  ft  note  of  udmi  arion  and  his  e'\.te  iiporanoous  rhyming  jn  the  old 
ballad  style, — Pox  s  offhand  iqdi  to  a  Jodv  s  inelegancy  of  exprts- 
sion.— Barty  WiUard  a  remaikahio  facjlit/  m  rhyming  oi  the  spur  of 
the  moment  — A  tilt  between  0^ford  and  Cambridge  —Give  the  devil 
his  dne. — Scribblinga  on  window  olass — The  embaasadors  delicate 
flattery. — Cowper's  conversion  of  uncomplimentary  designations  into 
compliments  at  an  evening  party.— The  Catholic's  reply  to  the  Protes- 
tant inscription  at  Bandon. — Burns's  grace  at  dinner. 528 


lyGoogle 


/MANNING'S  rhjine  (or  Julianna.— Brougham's  rhyme  for  Mor- 
(^  ris  — Monogomphe.— The  difficulty  of  flndiug  rhymes  for  month, 
chimney  liquid,  carpet,  window,  gurden,  porriugev,  orange,  lemou,  p.l- 
Bvim  widow  Timbuctoo,  Niagara.  Mackonochie.-Barhain's  fantastic 
Yhytiles  iu  the  /^oMsfty  Legeudi,  matched  by  Co'.eiidge,  by  Byron,  and 
bv  Butler  in  ffuiitras. -Punch's  spelling  rhymM.-Chapin'a  handling 
of  «n  intractable  wovd.-'ITie  young  lover's  difficulties  in  completmg 
his  stanzas.— Hood's  Noctarnal  Sketdi,  each  line  ending  with  tlircc 
rhyming  words 

Valmtints. 

A  STRATEGIC  iore-lotter,  providing  for  retreat  in  good  order, 
if  needful.— A  valentine  written  in  sympathetic  inh.-An  invi- 
tation crv-pt'>"Taphically  concealed  —Macaulay's  beautiful  verses  to  the 
daughter  of  Lord  and  Lady  Mahon.-Burns's  endearments—Teutonic 
alliteration.— A  lover  to  his  sweetheart  in  short  metre.— Lovmg  lines 
written  with  blood.— A  macaronic  valentine.-Digby's  graceful  wooing. 
— PracUcal  joke  on  a  colored  man  who  loved  not  wisely. -Unpublished 
verses  of  Moore.— Egyptian  serenade.- Petition  of  Bixt«en  maids  of 
Charleston  to  the  Governor  of  South  Carolina  to  restrain  U.o  widows 
fVom  captivating  bachelor.— The  maladroit  petition  of  a  priest^ ol 
Cuiseanx  to  Madiime  de  Maintenon ^** 

-TTT-RITING  a  sonnet.— 'I'hnughts  in  a  fashionable  cliureh.— The 
W  prosy  at  St.  Peter's  gate.— About  a  nose.— The  misdiie&  of 
dyspepsia.— The  grace  of  humility.— Ave  Maria 551 

(ttonfomltg  of  ^msc  to  ^ountr. 

4  ETICULATB  imitation  of  inaiticulate  Bounds,  with  examples 
_A_  from  the  poets.— Imiiations  of  time  and  motion.- Imitations 
of  diliiciilty  and  ease ''' 

jFamiliav  Quotations  ftorn  anfamiliat 

^OUtCES. 

A  VARIETY  of  quotations  tmeed  to   their  original  soiirco  in 
nncient  and  modern  writings.-Thc  following  are  accompanied 
Willi  special  remark:— Consistency  a  jewel.— Cleanhness  next  to  godlr 


lyClOOglC 


ness. — He's  a  brick. — Do  as  Romans  do. — Nation  of  shop-keepers, — 
What  will  Mrs.  Grundy  say^ — Thoui>:h  lost  to  sight,  to  memory  denr. — 
The  worse  for  the  facts. — Conspicuous  by  absence. — Do  as  I  say,  not  as 
I  do SSfi 

^i^utci^gatl)  ULittxatuxt, 

EPITAPHS  of  eminent  men.— Tombstone  inscriptions  peciiliaily 
eulogistic,  apt,  and  approjirinte.— Touching  memorials  of  children. 
— Historical  and  biogi'aphical  epitaphs. — Self-written  inscriptions  ~- 
Moralizing  and  admonitory  verses. — AdTertieing  notices. — Unique  and 
ludicrous  epitaphs. — Mortnnry  punning. — Curions  and  puzzling  inBcrij)- 
tions. — Curiousparnllels.— Specimens  of  bathos,  transcendental  writing, 
cento,  and  acrostic. — Ethnologic  difibrences,  Indian,  African,  Hiber- 
nian, Greek. — Antithesis  extraovdinaiy. — The  printer's  epitaph. — Speci- 
mens of  brevity. — Laudatory  vei^B.— Miscellaneous  epitaphs — Earth  to 
earth.— Byron's  monumenta!  inscription  on  his  dog 564 

Snsccfcptions. 

THE  strange  iiiscriptjons  on  old  English  tavern  sign-boards.— Their 
corruptions  and  meanings. —Tap-room  and  beer-jug  mottoes. — In- 
scriptions graved  on  inn  window-panes. — Inscriptions  and  mottoes  on 
bells — church,  alarm,  anil  clock  bells — drawn  from  a  variety  of  sources. 
—Old-fashioned  fly-leaf  inscriptions  in  books,  chiefly  school-book  a.  ~ 
Clock,  watch-paper,  and  sun-dial  epigraphs. — Forms  of  insciiption  for 
a  spring,  a  harp,  acemetery,  a  dwelling  and  public  houses. — Memorial 
veraes  and  golden  mottoes. — A  collection  of  posies  from  wedding- 
rings *>l^ 


parallel  ^iassases. 


ACKNOWLEDGED  imitations,  sly  plagiarisms,  and  accidental 
coincidences,  from  authors  of  every  clime  and  every  age,  both  in 
(he  current  of  thonght,  and  in  the  form  of  expression,- Shafcsperenn 
resemblances.- The  boldness  of  Charles  Reade's  plagiaiisms— Histor- 
ical similitudes: — unwillingness  of  barbarians  to  separate  from  their 
kindred  hereafter;  sacrificing  a  husband  and  son  to  save  a  brother, 
because  the  latter  can  never  be  replaced.- The  corresponding  mistake 
of  Cardinal  Wolsey  and  Sir  James  Hamilton. — The  judgment  of  Solo- 
mon frequently  repeated. — The  Brahmanical  Bebh-Qelert, — Parallels  in 
art  stories;  in  ballails  imd  l^ends;  in  burial  alive;  in  ring  stories ; 


lyGoogle 


ill   di^ath  propher. 


in  battks,— Tht  Bishop   Hatto  1 


THE  oldest  proverb.— A  Calvinistic  lady's  bliiiidev  anticipated  by 
Shakapeare'B  Agnecheek.— Cindecella  in  the  poreoii  of  llliodopis. 
a  Thracian  slave.— Mra.  Caudle's  curtain  lectures.— The  metre  of  Ten- 
nyson'9  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade— The  starting-point  of  the  Faust 
I^end3.-Air  cushions, -Adage  qnoted  by  Lady  Macbeth.-Cork  li^gs.  - 
The  Pope's  bull  against  the  comot. —Swapping  horses  while  fording  a 
sci-eam, -Wooden  nutmegs.— Trade  anions.- Inferential  dami^s.- 
The  original  Shylock.— Drnid  decree  of  excommunication.— Character 
and  fall  of  Napoleon.— Lanark  and  Lodoro.-Turgot's  ephigraph  on 
Franklin  n-aced  to  its  original.— The  Mechlenburg  Declaration  of  Inde- 
nendsnce,-The  Know  NotJiings.- The  main  ideaof  Bnnyan's  Allegory 
antidpafed. -Crusoe  and  Selkirk.-Provorb  of  De  Foe  traced  to  earlier 
sources.— Talleyrand's  moi  on  the  use  of  speech  anticipated.— Scandina- 
vian scull  enps.— Paley'B  Naturnl  Theology  a  plagiarism.  Old  ballads 
and  their  prototypes.- The  stovy  of  the  Wandering  Jew.  . 


(ffiutiflus  BooiJS. 


veil; 


a  fashmi 


ODDITY"  of  tlic  titles  of  hoolis  in  the  tim 
able  eccentricity  of  that  period.— A  bibliographic  curiosity,  tlie 
letters  of  the  test  being  cut  out  of  the  yollnm  pages  and  intoricarcd  with 
blue  papei-.— A  silver  book— the  Codox  ArgeuKua.- DisUnctions  among 

illtfrartana. 

TOE  myBturioua  authorship  of  the  Letters  of  Junius  ;  the  views  of 
Canning  and  Macanlay.— Gray's  Elegy ;  connections  of  the  origiiiEil 
3(5  n  d  an^as;  incidents;  imitations  of  the  elegy.— Pope's 
al  a  n  an  I  em  ndatious  shown  in  a  passage  of  the  translation  of  the 
I[  I— I  hancal  structure  of  Pope's  versification.- Importance  of 
p  n   and  he  seriovis  errors  that  may  arise  from  its  neglect.— 

I  d   n  1     aid  pomted  out  by  a  genealogical  enthnsiast.- Shaks- 

ps  -e  ana  hron  ns  ;  his  heroines ;  Ms  fiirailiarity  with  typography. 
H  B  nn  ts  — Hamlefa  age.— Hamlet's  insanity.— Additional  verses  to 
Payne's  Home,  Sweet  Home.- The  stereotyped  falsities  of  history,- 
Conflicting  testimony  of  eye-witnesSM  of  a  transaction. — The  distinction 
between   wit  and  humor.— A  rhyming  newspaper.— Euskin's  comfort 


lyClOOglC 


Jtitcrati. 

THE  attainmenls  of  famous  linguists ;  the  extiiiordinary  case  of 
Mezwfanti,  who  understood  one  hundred  and  eleven  langnagea. — 
Literary  oddities,  tmd  the  singularities  of  their  habits. — The  war  of  cul- 
ture upon  ignorance,  and  its  perpetual  sacrifices  in  the  strife. — Sharon 
Tumei's  coutomptible  meanness,  and  outrageous  disregard  of  the  value 
of  the  time  of  compositors. — Dryden  bringing  his  publisher,  Jacob 
Tonson,  to  terms 7fj6 

personal  ^feetrijes  anir  EneclioWs. 

-TTyASHINGTOH'S  rtipnified  composure.— Lafayette's  republican 
VV  proclivities. — The  niime  Napoleon  in  Greek  characters. — Mil- 
ton's strategy  of  Satan  borrowed  at  Austerlitz. — Personal  appearance 
of  Napoleon  as  described  by  Maitlanil ;  his  opinion  of  suicide — Frank- 
lin's frngal  wife. — Miyor  Andre's  Cow  chase. — An  Englisli  view  of  Andre 
and  Arnold. — Fiarasteed's  involuntary  magic.  Lord  Nelson's  impei- 
turhable  coolness. — Martin  Luther,  the  dreamer  and  the  man  of  action; 
the  Marsellaise  of  the  BeformatioE. — Queen  Elizabeth  as  described  by 
Sir  John  Hayward  and  Paul  Heintiner.— Shakspeare's  orthodoxy  ad 
shown  in  hia  writings. — Oliver  Crainwell;  cliaracter  sketched  in  a 
letter  to  Governor  Win  throp  ;  embalmed  head  in  possession  of  a  lady. — 
Pope's  skall  in  a  private  museum. — Wickliffe's  ashes  not  scattered  be- 
yond recall. — Tallejrandiana. — One  of  Person's  diversions.  ....  T63 

l^isforical  iEctnotanJua. 

THE  first  blood  of  the  Bevolutiou  shed  thirty-seven  days  before  tli.it 
of  Lexington. — The  tea-burning  at  Annapolis  two  months  before 
the  tea-party  at  Boston. — Preliminary  estimates  for  the  United  States 
Navy. — Cotton  Mather  desirons  of  capturing  William  Penn. — A  i>eti- 
tion  for  on  Ameriofin  monarchy. — The  symbolic  significance  of  the  flag 
t>f  the  Union. — The  IVench  tricolor  not  a  revolutionary  flag — Boni- 
IMiriean  newspaper  scale, — The  fligit  of  Eugenie  from  Piance  to  Chisel 
burst. — Predictions  in  a  sonnet. — L'Empire  c'est  la  Piis.  Jefierson  '^ 
impressions  of  Mario  Antoinette. — Blncher's  delirium — The  ntroeiiia 
treatment  of  the  mother  of  Charies  V.— The  tradition il  Mirj  Mi., 
dalene. — The  original  Mollier  Goose. — How  history  is  modified  in 
fiction. — Contemporary  criticism  in  the  light  of  subsequent  revelation  — 


lyGoogle 


4^_ 


HLlorlal  »k..l».ta..  -I  tl'i'  »•"»«'  "  >'"=''  8~  omnO  t,c,,,=„U.v 
vi»nlt  from  little  cavises.  Tlie  stoiy  of  ilie  Ijallnas  Annio  Lniine  iimi 
EoWn  Ail.Ii  -Tho  ilooM.  u  to  th.  .Ilege4  etiration  of  Jom  of  A.c- 
The  ileath  of  Amy  Robaart  accidentiil.— Tha  William  Tell  aeries  o( 
atocies  —The  extremes  of  Booiety  in  Enrof^  la  the  time  of  Louie  XtV.- 
Cremweir.  ah.ph.m  marri.l  ag.in.t  hi.  will.-The  l.at  .Isht  of  .he 
airoi.cll>t..-Que6nEliKih.lhandlheiia|.glTeiitoE..ei 782 


;j«ultmn  to  ^arto. 


c 


lOMPREHBNSIVE  fiict  and  HtrikLng  sentiment  comjjressed  into 
furms  of  expipssioii ^-^ 

3Llft  anS  3Btati). 

-nISHOP  HKBER'S  illiistratioiisof  the  vojaf;e  of  life.— Aphorisms 
Jj  of  Bishop  Homo-Peters'  rale  of  li.i„s-lr.„klia's  moral  eot 
The  proper  Jistribatio.  of  lime._Sir  Thoma.  B.wae  on  hvms  hJ, 
over  affain-lthymiag  definitions.— Answers  to  the  qaeation,  what  is 
Earths-Rhyming  grant  of  William  the  Conqnei^-.-Passling  questions 
for  lawyers  —The  hone  denominated  Lus.— Dying  words  of  distra. 
aaished  poi.ons.-Th.  h»t  prayer  of  Mary,  Queen  of  Seats,  belh.e  her 
eaecntion  —A  nimarkahle  case  of  suspeadtsi  animatioa.-QacshoaB  for 
the  iliseussion  of  the  learu«l.-Pre..rvation  of  dead  hodle..-Th.  folly 
ofemh.lming.or,se..-iwl.m,.ieal.ill.-Tl,el»Oipod.-Theimp,» 
eator,  epitaph  of  Shahspeare  p.rallele.1  In  leel.nl.-The  s.guiau,. 
of  the  Elenr-de-lls-Th.  plagues  of  Egypt.-Jeah  lugeloVs  .to;j  m 
long  ago.— The  earth  not  man's  ahiding  place.— Ill  success  in  luc 
Euturity.-Pity  for  the  .in  and  the  .ufering  of  th.  evting.-E.emng 
pmrer.iEcho-  of  .  hea.cniy  home.-Llft'.  p.rtlag.-B.sti.y.- 
Iym,a.hy.-Afte,.-D..th'.  «nal  conqu-.-Th.  ™mo.  h.»g^ 
euthanasia.   . 


lyGoogle 


aieaji  not  in  barren  soil  these  ofal  ears, 

Sinae  reap  thoa  may'si  whole  harvests  of  delight. 

Southwell. 

Qkat  which  we  garnered  in  our  eager  youth 
^ecoTnea  a  long  delight  in  after  i/eors,— Ethel  Chubohill. 
Co  the  man  -of  robust  and  healthy  intelleat,  who  gathers  the 
han/est  of  literature  into  his  lam,  thrashes  the  straw,  winnov/s 
the  grain,  grinds  it  in  his  cwn  miJJ,  baizes  it  in  his  OTon  oven,  and 
then  eats  the  true  bread  of  hnoivledge,  we  hid  a  cordial  welcome. 
SouTaEY. 
^  hope  has  crossed  me,  in  the  coarse 
Of  this  self-pleasing  exercise,  t}iat  ye 
Jdhj  zeaZ  to  his  wuibld  liToen,  who,  possessed 
Of  some  rare  gems,  or  pict'ares  fjiely  wrought, 
UnloaJis  his  cabinet,  and  draws  them  forth, 
One  after  oie,  soHaitiiig  regard 
Co  this  and  this.  Wosbswobth. 

Why  are  uot  more  gems  ffom  our  great  authors  scattered  over 
the  country?  Great  Jioo^b  ore  not  in.  everyhody's  reach;  and  though 
it  is  better  to  Timow  them  thoroughly  than  to  hnow  them  only  here 
and  there,  yet  it  is  a  good  work  to  give  a  little  to  those  who  have 
neither  time  nor  meajis  to  get  more.     Let  every  hoolo-worm,  when 
in  any  fragrant  scarce  old  tome  he  discovers  a  sentence,  a  story,  an 
illustration,  thai  does  his  heart  good, hasten  to  give  it. — Colebibge. 
^islihe  me  not  that  I've  essayed  to  please  ye  : 
Some  things  herein  may  not  offend. — Fletchbe. 
"What  song  the  SyreTis  sang,  or  what  name  Achilles  assumed  when 
he  hid  himself  o/mong  women,  though  puzzling  Questions,  are  not 
beyond  all  conjecture. — SiB  Tkomas  Beowwb. 

S  fontibas  eorwm,  judicia  arhitrioque  nostro,  qitanturr^  quogue 
modo  videhitur,  hauriernus-^CjlC^RO. 

Qii/idguid  agunt  homines  votujn,  timor,  ira,  voluptas, 

G^udia,  disaursiis,  nosiri  est  farrago  libelli. — JgvEMAL. 

SusTS  sJiavings  of  gold  are  carefully  to  be  Tcept. — FuLLEB. 


lyGoogle 


aipf)at)£tical  amftims. 


LIPOGRAMMATA  AND  PANGEAMMATA. 

ijN  No  59  of  the  Spectator,  Addison, 
scantiDg  on  the  different  species  of 
3  wit,  observes,  "The  first  I  shall  pro- 
e  are  the  Lipogrammatists,  or  letter 
'  droppeis  of  autiquitj,  that  would  take  an 
Meption  without  any  reason,  against  some 
artieulai  letter  in  the  alphabet,  so  as  not  to 
dmit  it  once  in  a  whole  poem.  One  Trj- 
hiodorus  was  a  great  master  in  this  kini  i 
■liting  He  composed  an  Odyssey  or  Epic 
'oem,  on  the  adventures  of  Ulysses  eon 
^sistingot  foui  and-twenty-hooks  havm^  in 
ely  banished  the  letter  A  from  his  first 
ok,  which  was  called  AJ}ha  d"  Iviw,  i 
n  Jucendo,')  because  there  wi*  not  an  ilpha 
>nd  book  WIS  inscnbed  Beta,  foi  the  same  rei  on 
In  =hoit  the  poet  excluded  the  whole  four-and  twenty  lette-a 
in  their  turns,  and  showed  them  that  he  eouH  do  hia  bus  nesa 
without  them.  It  must  have  been  very  pleasant  to  hive  nen 
this  Toet  avoiding  the  reprobate  letter  as  much  11  another 
would  a  false  quantity,  and  making  his  escape  tiom  it  thiou^h 
the  different  Greek  dialects,  when  he  was  preaentel  with  it  in 
any  particular  syllable;  for  the  most  apt  and  ekj.ant  word  in 


lyClOOglC 


•■+ 


26  ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 

the  wliole  language  was  lejsLted  like  a  duniond  with  a  flaw  in 
it,  if  it  appeared  blemishel  with  the  wrong  letter 

In  Ns.  63,  AddisoD  ha^  again  lotrodu  ed  Irjjhiodorua,  in 
his  Vision  of  the  Region  of  False  Wit  where  ho  see'^  the  phan- 
tom of  this  poet  pursued  through  the  iiitricaeies  of  a  dance  by 
foar-and- twenty  pers  ns  (reptcsentativea  of  the  alphabet,)  who 
are  unable  to  overtake  liiin 

Addison  should,  hjwever  h^\e  mentioned  thatTijphiodorus 
is  kept  in  countenance  bj  no  lesi  in  anth  rity  than  Findar, 
who,  according  to  Athen^eus  wrote  an  ode  Ir  m  which  the 
letter  si^m. 

Th-       p 


s  carefully 

excluded 

f  T 

ypi" 

d 

h 

n  t  been  without  its  inii- 

J    R 

s 

Rheiina  write  a  summary 

tW    D 

yth 

t 

ind  thioughout  each  sec- 

ly 

P 

t  cuUr  letter 

1 

wh 

te      De  aEtatibus  Mundi  et 

yi 

d  h 

h 

k 

wonderful   work   chiefly,   it 

d  J 

m 

m 

1 

•i   1     a"  from  (he  chapter 

1  d  d  th 

1 

t    r  i     from  tint  on  Abel, 

t 

c 

h 

C 

d  s     on  through  twenty- 

ra  yb    p     u 

Vd  m  h 
h    B     1 
h         h  pt 

Gregorio  Letti  presented  a  discourse  to  the  Academy  of  Hu- 
morists at  Rome,  thioughout  which  he  had  purposely  omitted 
the  letter  R,  and  he  entitled  if  th'-  e-viled  Jt  A  fnen  i  having 
requested  a  copy  as  a  literary  cuiiosity  (for  so  he  considered 
this  idle  performance  )  Letti  to  show  it  wis  njt  a  1  fBoult  a 
matter,  replied  by  a  copious  nnswei  of  ^even  p-igts  m  which 
he  observed  the  same  severe  ostrat,isni  igainst  the  letter  R. 

Du  Chat,  in  the  "Duoattana  oays  there  jre  fi?e  novels  in 
prose,  of  Lope  de  ^  ega  similarly  avoiding  the  vowels;  the 
first  without  A,  the  second  with  ut  E  the  third  without  I,  the 
fourth  without  0,  an!  the  fifth  without  U 

The  Orientalists  aie  u  t  without  this  literary  folly  A  Per- 
sian poet  read  to  the  celebrated  Jami  a  ghazel  of  his  own  com- 
position, which  Jami  did  not  like;  but  the  writer  replied  it  was, 
notwithstanding,  a  very  curious  sonnet,  for  the  letter  Ali£wa3 


lyClOOglC 


ALrllABETIGAL   WHJMS. 


27 


not  to  b.  found  i»  .nj  of  It.  word.  I  fcmi  .uroulicJl,  .n- 
,.er«a,  "You  om  do  .  Liter  tking  jet;  t.ke  ,.ay  «ii  *• 
Imen  from  e^ery  word  you  have  written." 

Thi.  alphabetical  whim  ha.  assumed  other  shapes,  somol.mo. 
takiuE  the  form  of  a  fondo.m  for  a  parlieular  letter.  In  the 
EcloL  de  Mm.  ot  Hugbald  lb.  Monk,  all  Ibe  words  begin 
witha  0.  In  the  Nugs  V.n.l.s  th.r.  i.  •  Po.ni  by  P.trus 
Plaeentius,  entitled  Pngna  Pereoium,  in  wkieb  every  word  b<^ 
gins  with  a  P  In  auotb.r  performanee  in  tbe  earn,  work,  .n- 
?ill.d  &».».  e.m  Mtk  certamen,  in  whioh  "apt  alhteratmn  s 
artful  aid"  is  similarly  summoned,  ever,  word  bogm  witb  .  C. 
Lord  North,  on.  of  the  finest  g.ntl.men  in  tbe  Court  ol 
James  I.,  bas  written  a  e.t  of  sonnets,  eaob  of  whieb  beg.no 
with  a  sueeessive  letter  of  the  alpbab.l.  The  Earl  of  B„ers 
in  the  reign  of  Edward  IT.,  translated  the  Moral  Proverb,  of 
Christiana  of  Pisa,  a  poem  of  about  two  l>u«d,ed  l.n.s  .lm«t 
all  the  word,  of  whieb  he  oontriv.d  to  eonelude  will,  tbe  letter  K 
Tbe  Pannammatists  oontrive  to  crowd  all  tbe  letter,  ol  th. 
alpbabet  in°o  ever,  single  vers..  Tbe  propb.l  E.ra  ma,  be 
regarded  ..  the  father  of  them,  as  may  be  ..en  by  referenc.  to 
oh  vii  V  21  of  liis  Book  of  Prophecie..  Ausonius,  a  ilo- 
man  ooet  of  the  fourth  eentnry,  whose  vonies  are  obaraoterizod 
b,  great  m.ehanieal  ingenuity,  is  fullest  ofth.se  faueres. 

The  following  sentence  ot  only  48  letter.,  contain,  ever, 
letter  of  the  ,lp!>.b.li-Joi»  F.  Bradu,  ji.e  m,  «  U^k  «a!. 
nvi  box  of  qvite  a  sm"^^  ^'^-  ,     ,    ,- 

The  BUu'a  siibjoinad  i.  a  specimen  of  both  iipogran.n>.t.o 
and  pangrammatio  ingenuity,  contoiaing  every  letter  of  the 
alpbabet  except  ..  Those  .ho  remember  th.t  e  ,s  the  rno^ 
indispensable  letter,  being  mueh  more  frequently  used  than 
any  other,*  will  perceive  the  difficulty  of  such  composmon. 


s  The  relat 
been  pretty  o 


rately  dBtern 


11  112 
S  80 
T  90 


lyClOOglC 


ALPIIABETICAL    WHIMS. 


IhaC  irbat  I  say  is  right. 


The  JWie  o/Massan  affords  another  example,  eacli  stanza 
coQtainiDg  the  entire  alphabet  except  e,  aod  composed,  &a  the 
writer  aajs,  with  ease  without  e's. 

Bold  Naaaan  quila  hia  oorayaii, 

Climbs  joggj  roelis  to  spy  his  way, 
Dotk  tas  hifl  aight,  liut  tat  duth  stray. 
Not  nork  of  man,  nor  sport  of  ehild, 
Finds  Nassan  in  that  mazy  wild; 

Poor  nigbt  I  why  didst  thou  quit  Ihnt  plain  ? 
Vainly  tor  succor  Nosann  calla. 
Kuow,  Zillah,  that  thy  Nassan  foils: 
But  prowling  wolf  and  fox  may  joy 
To  quarry  on  thy  Arab  bny. 

LoKD  Holland,  after  reading  the  five  Spanish  novels 
already  alluded  to,  in  1824,  composed  the  following  curious 
example,  in  which  all  the  vowels  except  K  are  omitted ; — 


rsapaoted,  lavered,  even  when  the  rest,  whether  the  aeloot  few,  whether  the 
mere  herd,  were  left  neglected. 

The  aldaat's  vessels  seek  the  deep,  atem  the  element,  get  pence ;  the  keen 
Peter,  when  free,  wedded  Hester  Green,— the  slender,  stern,  severe,  ereot 
Hester  Oreen.  The  next,,  clever  Hed,  less  dependent,  wedded  antet  Ellen 
HeliEr.  Stephen,  ere  he  met  the  gentle  Ere,  never  felt  tenderness ;  lie  kept 
kennels,  bred  steeds,  rested  where  the  deer  fed,  went  where  green  trees, 

she  tended  her  sheep,  she  ever  neglected  self:  she  never  heeded  pelf,  yel 
she  heeded  the  shepherds  even  less.  Nevertheless,  her  obeek  reddened 
when  she  met  Stephen;  yet  decent"  reserve,  meek  respect,  tempered  her 
apeeeh,  even  when  she  shewed  tenderness.  Stephen  felt  the  sweet  effrjot ; 
ho  felt  he  erred  whon  he  fled  the  ses,  jet  felt  he  defenceless  when  Eve 
seemed  tender.  She,  he  teflects,  never  deserved  neglect;  she  never  vented 
spleen;  he  esteems  her  gentleness,  her  eudless  deserts;  ha  rsvetenees  hor 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 

a  gentle   sheep, — whonoe   t 


"Tell  me   whenca    these   m( 
meeker,  the  gentler  ahepberdcs; 

seek  fiMOes      Tbero  we  were  fleeoed.    Need  then  rendered  m 

need  renders  me  sempstress.     Sea  me  tend  the  shcepi  so»  ^,  ....    .... 

wretched  shreds.  BTe's  need  preserves  the  steers,  preserveB  the  sheep ; 
Bye's  neadle  mends  h.r  dresses,  hems  her  .beets;  Eye  feeds  the  gee.e; 
Eve  preserves  the  cheese." 

Her  speech  melted  Stephen,  jet  he  nevertlieieES  esteems,  roi  eres  ner.    n= 
,';^h?w„.e  where  her  feet  pressed  thegreeB;  he  blessed,  he  begged,  he 


"  Sweet,  sweet  Eve,  let  ma  wed  thee ;  be  led  w1 
Ellen  Heber,  -where  the  brethren  Vere  dwell.  Pre. 
Ellen's  glees  sweeten  the  refreshment;  there  flevarr 
oheckB  beedlcsa  jests.     Be  led  there,  sweet  Bye  . 

"  Never  I  we  well  remember  the  Seer.  We  we 
enfared  the  call— we  begged  the  decree,— 


iter  Green,  where 
;reets  thee  there; 

■B  he  dwi^lls— we 


idedf   I 


ited  Stephen  the  Seer's  deci 
"  Ere  tie-gi 
S«!eet  Evi 

Nea. 


The  terms  perplexed  Stephen,  yet  he  jeered  the  terms  i  he  '^^^^^^^' 
senseless  oredenee,  "  Seers  neyer  err."  Then  he  repented,  knelt,  wheedled, 
wept  Eve  sees  Staphen  kneel ;  she  relents,  yet  frets  when  she  remembers 
the  Seei-'s  decree.     Her  dress  redeems  her.     These  were  the  events ;— 

Her  well-kempt  tresses  fell;  sedges,  reeds,  bedcekad  them.  The  reeds 
fell,  the  edges  met  her  cheeks;  her  ebeeks  bled.  She  presses  tha  green 
sedge  where  her  cheek  hleeds.  Red  then  bedewed  the  green  reed,  the 
oreen  read  then  speckled  her  red  cheek.  The  red  cheek  seems  green,  the 
Ireen  reed  seems  red.  These  were  e'en  the  terms  the  Eld  Seer  decreed 
Stephen  Yere.  ^^^^  ^^^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^^^_ 

ALPHABETICAL   ADVEKTISEMENT. 

TO  WIDOWERS  AND  SINGLK  GENTLEMEN.— 
WANTED  by  a  lady,  a  SITUATION  to  superintend  the 
household  and  preside  at  table.  She  is  Agreeable,  Becoming, 
Careful,  Desirable,  English,  Facetious,  Generous,  Honest,  In- 


lyClOOglC 


30  ALPHABKTICAL   WHIMS. 

dustrious,  Judicious,  Keen,  Lively,  Merry,  Natty,  Obedient, 
Philosophic,  Quiet,  Hegular,  Sociable,  Tasteful,  Useful,  Viva- 
cious, Womanish,  Xantippish,  Youthful,  Zealous,  &c.  Address 
X.  Y.  Z.,  Siinuiond's  Library,  Ed  go  ware- road. — London  Times, 
1842. 

JACOBITE  TOAST. 

The  following  remarkable  toast  is  ascribed  to  Lord  Du£F,  aud 
was  presented  on  some  public  occasion  in  the  year  1745. 
A.  B.  0.     ...     A  Blessed  Change. 
D.   E.   F,     ■      ,      .      Down   Every  Foreigner. 
G.  H.  J.     .     .     .     God  Help  James. 
K.  L.  M.    .     .     .     Keep  Lord  Marr. 
N.  0.  P.     .     .     .     Noble  Ormond  Preserve. 
Q.  K.  S.      .     .     .     Quickly  Kesolve  Stewart. 
T.  U.  V.  W.  .     .     Truss  Up  Vile  Whigs. 
X.  Y.   Z.      .      .      .     'Xert  Your  Zeal. 

THE   THREE  IMITIALS. 

The  following  couplet,  in  which  initials  are  so   aptly  used, 

was  written  on  the  alleged  intended  marriage  of  the  Duke  of 

Wellington,  at  a  very  advanced  age,  with  Hiss  Angelina  BuT- 

dett  Coutts,  the  rich  heiress  : — 

Tbe  Duke  must  in  bis  second  childhood  bo. 
Since  in  his  doting  ago  he  turns  to  A.  B.  C. 


ENIGMAS. 

The  letter  E 

is  thus  enigni 

atically  described : — 

The  beginnin 
Tba  end  of 

The  beginnin 
The  end  of 

of  atornity, 
time  and  apaca, 

everypbcr  ' 

The  letter  M 

is  concealed 

in  the  following  Latin 

unknown  au 

hor  of  very  ancient  date  : 

Egos 
Egos 

uni  principlum  m 

undi  ct  finis  seculorum: 
at  tamen  non  sum  Duuii. 

lyGoogle 


.niAliKTlCAL   WHIMS. 


31 


THE    LETTER   H. 

The  celebrated  enigma  on  tie  letter  H,  commonly  attributed 
to  Lord  Eyron*  is  well  known.    The  following  amusing  petition 
d  bj  tbis  letter  to  the  ichabitaota  of  KiddeminBter, 
—Protiitiiig : 

WhereaB  by  you  I  have  been  drjyen 

ITrom  'oUBa,  from  'omo,  from  'ope,  from  'eavBii, 

And  plated  by  ynr  ^oat  lenrned  aooiety 

la  Heiik,  HangBisb,  and  Hansielyi 

Nay,  chsrged  with     t  uBt  prstenoa. 

With  Harroganoo         H  m  e— 

I  here  domand  full 

And  li8g  you'll  mB  H 

Uowlaod  Hill,  when  at  c      g     w         m        b 

quent  wittiness  of  his  obser  I     a 

powers  of  the  letter  H,  ia  wh    b      w  j       ""     >, 

,  Setter,  but  a  simple  aspirati  b       h    g  E  w      d 

opposite  side  of  the  question 

intents  and  pui-poses,  a  Utte         i 

if  it  were  not,  it  was  a  yery 

occasion  his  being  ill  all  th    d  y         " 

When  Kohl,  the  travell  b    Ch      h         h     A    X- 

ander  Nevskoi,  at  St.  Petersburg,  his  guide,  pointing  to  a  cor- 
ner of  the  building,  said,  "  TUre  lies  a  Cannibal^  Attracted 
to  tie  tomb  by  this  strange  announcement,  Kohl  found  from, 
tbe  inscription  that  it  was  tie  Russian  general  Haunibal ;  but 
as  the  Russians  have  no  H.f  they  change  the  letter  into  K; 
and  hence  the  strange  misnomer  given  to  the  d 


d  dby   b 


fFai 


3 ;  the  Hebrew,  Syrlae,  Chaldee, 
■.»n    IwpnCTtwo  ea^"i    ^^  ..^"Ob,  tnenty-tbrcej     the  Greek, 


I  and  I 


lyClOOglC 


32  AUPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 

A  city  knight,  who  waa  unable  to  aspirate  the  H,  on  being 
deputed  to  give  King  William  III.  an  address  of  welcome,  ut- 
tered the  following  equivocal  comphmeat : — 

"  Future  ages,  recording  your  Majesty's  exploits,  will  pro- 
nounce you  to  have  been  a  N'ero!" 

Mrs.  Crawford  says  she  wrote  one  line  in  her  song,  Kalhkm 
Mavoumeen,  for  tlie  express  purpose  of  confounding  the  cock- 
ney warblers,  who  sing  it  thus  : — 

Tho  'aca  of  tlie  'nntar  is  'eard  ou  ths  'ill. 

Moore  has  laid  the  same  trap  in  the  Woodpecker : — 

A  'eart  that  is  'uinblE  migbi  'ope  for  it  'ere. 

And  tho  elephant  confounds  them  tlie  other  way : — 

A  lielephiLDt  heaailj  heats  at  bis  heaae, 
Hwnder  hnmbrageous  biunbEalla  Ireea. 

ON  THE  MAKBIAQE  OP  A  LADY  1 

Sure,  madnm,  by  your  ohoioe  a  taste  wi 
Whafs  good  or  great  or  grand  witbout 
A  godly  glow  must  auie  on  G  depend, 
Or  oddly  low  our  tigbteons  thoughts  to 
'J]ho  want  of  Q  all  gratitude  effaces; 
And  witbout  0,  the  Graces  would  rnu  i 

ON   SENDING    A   PA 

Prom  this  small  token  take  the  lett* 

And  then  'tis  love,  and  that  I  send 

TJNIVOOALIO   VERSES. 


Wars  barm  all  ranks,  a 
At  Mara'  harsb  Uast,  a 
Ah  !  hard  as  adamant,  a  braggart  Caar 
Arms  vassal  swarms,  and  fans  a  fatal  war! 
Kampant  at  that  bad  oall,  a  Vandal  band 
Harass,  and  harm,  and  ransaok  Wallaoh-lan 
A  Tartar  pbalans  Balkan's  searp  batb  past, 
And  Allah's  standard  falls,  alas!  at  last. 


lyClOOglC 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMK. 


Eve,  Bdea's  Empress,  needs  defended 
The  Serpent  greets  her  when  she  Beck 
Soreno,  she  sees  the  apeokled  tempter 


BTela  when  she  errs, 

Si  regreta,  repenta  slie  fell ; 

reseeks  the  nether  hell  I 


Idling,  I  sit  in  thia  mild  twilight  dim, 
Whilst  birda,  in  wild,  awifl  yigils,  omiling  skim. 
Light  winds  in  sighing  sink,  till,  rising  bright. 
Night's  Virgin  PUgrim  swhns  in  yivid  Ught  I 


No  monk  too  good  to  rob,  or  cog,  or  plot. 
No  fool  so  gtoaa  to  bolt  Bootch  coUopa  hot. 
From  Donjon  tops  no  Oronofeo  rolla. 
Logwood,  not  Lotos,  floodfl  Oporto's  bowla. 
Troops  of  old  toaapota  oft,  to  sot,  consort. 
Bos  tops,  not  bottoms,  aohool-hoys  flog  for  sport. 
Ho  cool  monaoone  blow  soft  on  Osforil  dons, 
OrthodoK,  jog-trot,  book-worm  Solomons  ! 
Bold  Ostrogoths,  of  ghosts  no  horror  show. 
On  iiondon  shop-fronts  no  hop-blossoms  grow. 
To  crooks  of  gold  no  dodo  looks  for  food. 
On  soa  cloth  footstools  no  old  fos  doth  brood. 
Long  storm-tost  flloopa  forlorn,  work  on  to  port. 
Rooks  do  not  roost  on  spoons,  nor  woodoooka  snort 
Nor  dog  on  snow-drop  or  on  coltsfoot  rolls. 
Hoi  common  frogs  eonocct  long  protocols. 


Dull  hnmdtum  murmurs  Inll,  but  hnbbab  ttnna. 
Lucnilna  anuffs  no  mnsk,  mnndangus  shuna. 
Puss  purrs,  buds  hnrst,  bnoks  butt,  Inck  tntns  np  trumps ; 
But  full  cops,  hurtful,  spur  np  unjuat  thumps. 

A  young  English  ladj,  on  observing  a  gentleman's  lane  newlj 
iktited  with  lilacs,  made  this  neat  impromptu : — 

Let  lovely  lilacs  line  Lee's  lonely  lane. 


lyClOOglC 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMK. 
AlPHABETIOAL  ALLITERATION, 


An  Austrian  army,  awfullj  arrnjed, 
Boldly,  by  battery,  besieged  Belgrade ; 
Coseaek  commaaders  cannonading  oome — 
Denling  deatruolion'a  devastating  doom; 

For  fame,  for  fortune— fighting  furious  fray  ;— 
Generals  'gainst  generals  grapple — gracious  ttod  I 
Hon  honors  Heaven,  Iieroio  hardihood ! 
Infuriate,— indiscriminalo  in  ill. 
Kindred  kill  kinsmen,— kinsmen  kindred  kill ! 
Labor  low  IotbIb  loftiest  longest  lines— 

Now  noisy,  noiiouB,  notJoed  nought 

Of  outward  obstacles  opposing  ought ; 

Poor  patriots,  partly  purcbased,  partly  pressed : 

Quite  quaking,  qniakly  quarter,  quarter  quest. 

Reason  returns,  religious  right  redounds, 

Suwarrow  slops  such  sanguinar;'  sounds. 

Truce  to  thee,  Turkey— triumph  to  ay  train ! 

Unjust,  unwise,  unroereifnl  Ukraine! 

Vanish  Tain  victory,  vanish  victory  vain  ! 

Why  wish  ye  warfare  ?    Wherefore  waloome  were 

Xerxes,  Xlmenea,  Xanthus,  Xaviero? 

Tieldl  ye  youths  !  ye  yeomen,  yield  your  yell  I 

And  all  atttaoting — arms  against  acts  appeaL 


Detesting  despots, — daring  deeds  dabatei 

Each  eye  emMazoned  ensigns  entertain, — 

Flourishing  from  far,- fan  iVeedom's  flame. 

Guards  greeting  guards  grown  grey, — guest  greeting  gi 

High-minded  heroes,  hither,  homeward,  haste. 

Ingenuous  juniors  join  in  jubilee, 

Kith  kenning  kin,— kind  knowing  kindred  key, 

Lo,  lengthened  linos  lend  Liberty  liege  love, 

Mised  masses,  marshaled,  Moname-ituita-d  move. 


lyClOOglC 


Qnaeos'  ciuarrel  que; 
Rebellion  roused, 


le  patriots  palad 


iting  servilo  sold 


These  thriUlng  themes,  to  loonEmus  u« 
Dmirpers'  nnjnst  usages  unfold. 
Victorious  vassals,  vauntings  vainlj  vei 


Biuids  trulj  told. 


Yielding  Yai 


ike  Warren  wailed. 


Jl    MACDOSAIjII- 


AU  a-Tient  acts  affiight  an  Age  abased 

By  brutal  broils,  by  braggart  bravery  braced. 

Craft's  oaDkeredMuraEeobangodCuUodensoryi 

"  Deal  deep"  deposed  "  deal  doath"^"  deeoy,"  '  defy . 

Enough.     Ere  envy  enters  England's  eyes, 

Fancy's  falsa  fnture  fades,  for  Fortune  Hies. 

Gauat,  gloomy,  guaried,  ^applmg  giant  griefa, 

Here,  hunted  hard,  his  harassed  heart  he  beavea ; 

JudTins'jov"s7«alonajudgmeiits,janndioedjeatsI 

Kneel,  kirtlaS  knight!  keep  keener  kingeraft;  known. 


Lot  la. 


irlur 


I's  lev 


ilefaa 


Ho  nation  noisy  n  on -conformists  needs. 

0  oracles  of  old !  our  orb  ortain 

Pease'a  poflsession— Plenty's  palmy  plaml 

Quiet  Quiiotio  quesU ;  quell  quarrelling ; 

Rebuke  rod  riot's  resonant  rifle  ring. 

Slumber  seems  strangely  sweet  Binoe  silence  snioie 

The  threatening  thunders  th™bbing  througli  the.r  throat. 

Usurper  I  under  uniform  unwont 

Vail  valor's  vaguest  venture,  vaineat  vaunt. 

Well  wot  we  which  were  wise.     War's  wildSro  won 

Ximenes,  Xeries,  Xavier,  Xenop-"  ■ 

Yet  you,  ye  yearning  youth,  jom  .        „  . 

Zuinglius'  «ealot  aest— ZiniEndorf  zion-ioal 


irs  yield 


CiCOrnONOnS    couplet    on    CARDINiL   WOLBET, 

Begot  by  butohers,  but  by  bishops  bred. 
How  high  his  honor  holds  his  haughty  headl 


lyClOOglC 


JAL   WHIMS. 


Deep  da,ils  desuanding  dive  dclnaive  down. 

Entranoed  eaoli  eve  Buropa'a  avery  ejB 

Firm  fixed  forever  fastena  faithfully, 

Greets  golden  guerdon  gloriously  grand ; 

How  Holy  Heaven  holds  high  hie  hollow  hand ! 

Ignoblo  ignorance,  inapt  indeed — 

Jeers  jestingly  just  Jupiter's  jereed  : 

Knavish  Kamschatkans,  knightly  Kurdsmen  know,  : 

Long  Labrador's  light  Inatre  looming  low; 

Midet  mjriad  multitudes  majestie  might 

No  nature  nobler  numberB  Keptune's  night. 

Opal  of  Osna  or  old  Ophir's  ores 

Pale  pyrrhio  pjrea  priaraatio  purplo  pours, — 

Quiescent  quivering,  quiokly,  quaintly  queer, 

Rioh,  roey,  regal  rays  resplendent  rear; 

Strange  shooting  streamers  streaking  starry  skies 

Trail  their  triumphant  tresses— liembling  ties. 

Unseen,  uahonored  Ursa, — underneath 

Veiled,  vanquished— vainly  vying— vaniaheth  : 

Wild  Woden,  warning,  watohful— whispers  wan 

Xanthitio  Xerea,  Xersea,  Xenophon, 

Yet  yielding  yesternight  yale'a  yell  yawns 

Zenith's  aobrdio  zlging,  Eodiao  sonoB, 

Pnlci,  in  lis  Morffante  Maggiore,  xxiii.  47 ,  gives  the  following 
remarkable  double  ai]iterations7two  of  them  in  every  line  : — 

La  oasa  ansa  parea  bretta  e  bratta, 
Vinta  dal  vejiio,  e  la  nntta  e  la  notts, 
Stilla  le  tielle,  eh'a  letla  era  talla, 
Del  pane  appenn  ne  dcile  ta'  doUe ; 
Pere  avea  jjurs  e  qu»lohe/ra«a/nri(a, 
B™;«oe»v«ia   diioHounatoHs,- 
PoseJa  peryfSdi  lasohe  prese  alt'esca, 
Ma  il   lellu  allotta  alla/t'cica  Cu/reKO. 

In  tlie  imitation  of  Laura  Matilda,  in  the  Rejected  Addresses 
oeeurs  this  stanza : — 

Pan  behold  Patroolus  dying, 

Noi  to  Niobo  was  turned ; 

From  Busiris  Baochus  flying. 

Saw  bis  Somele  inurned. 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABETICAL   WUIHS. 


thing  Anthology  from 


iuthora 


Iroken 


tafro 


B^ilkj  B 


Dainty  DaviBea  from  Diverse  DireotinnB. 

Behpea  of  Eloquence  from  Bminent  Bssayista. 

Fragrant  Plowers  from  Tielda  of  Banoy. 

Gems  of  Geniaa  Glorionsly  Gamisbad. 

Handy  Helps  from  Head  and  Heart. 

Hlustrloua  Intelleols  InfflUigently  Int^rpretsd. 

Jewels  of  Judgment  and  Jots  of  Jo=ularity. 

Kindlings  to  Keep  from  the  King  to  the  Kitohan. 

Loosened  Lea-ea  from  Literary  Laurola. 

Magniflcont  Moraels  from  Migbty  Minds. 

Nnroeroue  NaggetB  from  Notable  Noodles. 

Oracular  Opinions  Officionsly  Otterad, 

Prodigious  Points  from  Ponerful  Pens. 

Qnirks  and  Quibbles  from  Quoer  Quarters. 

Bare  Remarks  Kidioulously  Eepeatod. 

Suggestive  Squibs  from  Sundry  Souroes. 

Tremendous  Thoughts  on  Thundering  Topics. 

Utterances  from  Uppermost  for  Use  and  Unet.on. 

Valuable  Viaws  in  Various  Voices. 

Wisps  of  Wit  in  a  Wilderness  of  Words. 

Xoallent  Xtcaots  Xactly  Xpressed. 

Yawnings  and  Yearnings  for  Youthful  Yankees. 

Zeal  and  Zcat  from  Zoroaster  to  Ziromcrjnan. 


COMPLIMENTARY    CONSIDERATION 


,   CONCERNING   CHESt 


■rished  c 


Tho  a 


roL  the  ohaxitiiWe,  and  the  cheerful  era  the  ebeaen  enefl  thej.  eherishest. 
SI.  ."«  thee,  fc.  the  •••"•  '•  •■■"'"•^  "  ""  *'"t 
;™e  r  ."  .u,  M  eUldLh  eU.pI.g.  »  the  .hill,  of  the  J™;-!"?. 
Sr.  "  .  eheen,  eh..,.!...  .hiett.i.e».  Oh.tn.r  .1  fh.  eW.-h, 
t Se" t  Z  eh^Ule.  Ln.h.,  .f  th.  .h..ri.ed,  the  eh.p,,,  .r  « 
Sim  .r  .1.™.  .h..ld  b.  eh„ted  i.  .h.™M.  .hl.e.  h,  .1.....1  eh.™ 
taia.  .hd  ehiselled  on  ehaloedon  in  oherubie  .hir.graphj. 


lyGoogle 


Hoocl,  in  describing  the  sensatioDs  of  a  dramatist  awaiting 
his  debut,  thus  uses  the  letter  F  in  his  Ode  to  Perry : — 

All  Fumo  and  Fret, 
Fuss,  Fidget,  Panoy,  Fever,  Funking,  Fright, 
PermEnt,  Pault-faoring,  FaintaeM— mora  rs  yet ! 
Flushed,  Frigid,  Flurried,  Flinching,  Fitful,  Flat, 
Add  Famifihed,  Fuddled,  and  Fatigued  to  that; 
Funeral,  Fata-Poreboding. 

The  repetition  of  tiie  same  letter  in  the  following  ia  very  in- 
genious : — 

FELICITOUS   FLIGHT  OP   FANCT, 

"A  famoua  fieb-faotor  found  himself  father  of  five  flirting  females— 
Enuaj,  Florence,  Fernanda,  Franaeaoa,  and  Fenella.  The  first  four  nera 
fial-featnred,  ill-farored,  forbidding-faoed,  freoUed  frumps,  ftetful,  flippant, 
foolish,  and  flaunting,  Penalla  was  a  fine-featured,  fresh,  fleet-footad  fairy, 
frank,  flee,  and  fall  of  fun.  The  fisher  failed,  and  nas  forced  by  fiokia 
fortune  to  forego  his  footman,  forfeit  his  forefatheis'  fine  fields,  and  find  a 
forlorn  farm-house  in  a  fonsaken  forest.  The  four  fretful  females,  fond  of 
figuring  at  feasts  in  feathers  and  fashionable  finery,  fnmed  at  their  fugittvB 
father.  Forsaken  by  fulsome,  flattering  fortune-hunterB,  who  followed  them 
when  first  they  flourished,  Penclla  fondled  het  fathei-,  flavored  their  food, 

forgot  her  fiattcriog  followers,  and  frolioked  ia  a  friese  withont  floHnoes. 
The  father,  finding  himself  foroed  to  forage  in  foreign  parts  for  a  fortune, 
found  he  could  afford  a  faring  to  Ms  five  fondliugs.  The  first  fonr  wore  fain 
to  foster  their  frivolity  witli  fine  friUa  and  fans,  flt  to  finish  their  father's 
finanoes;  FeneUa,  fearful  of  fiooring  bun,  formed  a  fanny  fer  a  full  freeh 
fiower.  Pate  favored  the  fish-factor  for  a  few  days,  nben  he  fell  in  with  a 
fog;  his  faithful  Pilley'fl  footsteps  faltered,  and  food  failed.  He  found  him- 
self in  front  of  a  fortified  fortress.  Finding  it  forsaken,  and  feeling  himself 
feeble,  and  forlorn  with  fasting,  he  fed  on  the  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl  he  found, 
fricasseed,  and  when  full  fell  fiat  on  the  floor.  Fresh  m  the  forenoon,  be 
forthwith  flew  to  the  fruitful  flelds,  and  not  forgetting  Fenella,  he  filched  a 
fair  flower;  when  a  foul,  frightful,  fiendish  flguro  flashed  forth;  'Felonious 
fellow,  fingering  my  flowers,  I'll  finish  yon!  Fly;  say  farewell  to  your  fine 
felioitons 'family,  and  face  me  in  a  fortnight  I'  The  faint-hearted  fisher 
fumed  and  faltered,  ami  fast  and  far  was  his  flight.  His  five  daughters 
flew  to  fall  at  his  feet  aud  fervenUy  felicitate  him.  Prantioally  and  fluently 
he  unfolded  his  fate.  Fenella,  forthwith  fortified  by  filial  fondness,  followed 
her  father's  footsteps,  and  flung  her  faultless  form  at  the  foot  of  the  fright- 
ful figure,  who  forgave  the  father,  ajid  fell  flat  on  his  face,  for  ho  had 
fer\'ently  fallen  in  a:  Eery  fit  of  love  for  the  fair  Fenella.  He  feasted  her 
till,  faaoinated  by  his  fMthfolness,  she  forgot  the  ferocity  of  his  face,  form. 


lyGoogle 


AlPHABETICAL   WHIMS.  ■*» 

M,d  featurea,  and  franklj  and  fondly  filed  Friday,  fifth  of  February,  for 
the  affair  to  come  off.  There  was  festivity,  fragrance,  finery,  fireworks, 
fricasseed  frOKS,  fritters,  fish,  4esh,  fowl,  and  frumentry,  frontlgnac,  flip, 
and  fa™  fit  foe  the  fastidious ;  fruit,  fuss,  flambeaux,  four  fat  fiddlers  a«d 
fifers  ■  and  the  frightful  form  of  the  fortunate  and  frumpish  fiend  fell  from 
him,  and  he  foil  at  Fenella's  feet  a  fuT-faTorod,  fine,  frank,  freeman  of  the 
forest.     Behold  the  fruits  of  filial  offeation. 

A  BEVY   OF   BELLES. 

The  followiag  Imea  are  said  to  have  been  admirably  de- 
scriptive of  the  five  daughter  of  an  English  gentleman, 
formerly  of  Liverpool : — 

Minerra-lilte  majestio  Mary  moves. 
Law,  Latin,  Liberty,  learned  Laoy  lovea. 
Eliza's  eleganoe  eaoh  eye  espies. 
Serenely  silent  Susan's  smiles  surprise. 
Fi'om  fops,  fools,  flattery,  faii-oat  Fanny  flies. 
MOTIVES  TO    SRATITIIDE. 

A  remarkable  example  of  the  old  fondness  for  antith^s 
and  alliteration  in  composition,  is  presented  in  the  following 
estract  from  one  of  Watts'  Sermons  :— 

The 'last  great  help  to  thankfulnaaa  is  to  compare  various  circnmstanooa 
and  things  together.      Compare,  then, your  sorrows  with  you  ams;    oom- 
-..  _:ti.  ^—^^  »..ivify      rtr\mn,*ip  v3ur  oomforts  with  your 


n  troubles 


rerings  « 
1  of  ycur 


ufforings  o 

Chri'it  J 

sus 

your  Lord;  oom- 

ns  with  th 

profit  of 

re  your 

on  in  hell 

present 

you  espe 

t  hereafter, 

and  try 

en  thankf 

ACROSTICS 
The  leiosfie  th  u^Yi  in  old  and  favorite  form  of  ver-e  in 
tu  own  langui,e  has  been  almost  wholly  an  exercise  oi  m{,e 
nuity  and  has  been  eonfidered  fit  only  for  trivial  subject'*  tfl 
be  classed  among  7,vi;x  IWran^  Thb  word  in  ita  deiivation 
includes  van  us  artifitial  arrangements  of  hues  ind  mmy  ft,n 
testic  conceits  liwe  been  mdulged  m  GeneraUy  the  acrostic 
hds  been  formed  of  the  fir^t  ktters  of  each  Ime  sometimes  f 
the  hst    somctimr^  of  both     hometimLS  it  is  to  be  lead  down 


lyClOOglC 


40  AirWABETICAL    WHIMS. 

wari3,  somotimes  upward.  An  iogenious  variety  called  the 
TelesticL,  is  that  in  which  the  letters  beginning  the  lines  spell 
a  word,  while  the  letters  ending  the  lines,  when  taken  together, 
form  a  word  of  an  opposite  meaning,  as  in  this  instance: — 

U  nite  and  untia  are  the  same— so  say  yo  U. 


initial  and  final 


I  nthedramaof  marriage  eaohwandoringoou  T 

To 

B  new  face  would  fiy— ail  eioept  you  and  I— 

B  aoh  seeking  to  aller  tho  ipM  in  their  seen  B. 

tine 

9,  on  the  death  of  Lord  Hatherton,  (1863),  the 

iaal 

letters  are  douhled  : — 

H 

rd  was  hia  final  fight  with  ghastly  Deal  ft, 

H 

bravely  yielded    hia   espiring    brcat  h. 

As 

in  the  Senate  fighting  freedom's  pie  a, 

The   publio     welfare    saekiiig  to   direct, 

Th 

e    weak    and    undefended    to     proteo  1. 

H 

steady  aoarse  in  noble  life  from   birt  ft. 

Ho 

s  ahown  hia  publio  and  his  privale  wort  h. 

Ev 

ncing    mind    both    lofty    and     sedate, 

Bn 

dowmeatB  great  and  fitted  for  the  Stat  e, 

oeiving   high  and  low  with   open  door. 

Ri 

h  in  his  bounty  to  the  rude  and  poo ,-. 

Th 

e  crown  repoaed  in  him  the  highest  trua  (, 

To 

showtheworldthathetrnaniseand  jus  i. 

Oc 

Ou 

8    wiilitjgly    relied,    and    will    do    so. 

No 

yet   extinct    is   noble  Hatherton, 

No 

w   atill   he   livea   in    graoious   Littleto  n. 

Although  the  fanciful  and  trifling  tricks  of  p 
been  carried  to  esceas,  and  acrostics  have  come  in  for  their 
share  of  satire,  the  ori^  of  Buch  artificial  poetry  was  of  a 
higher  dignity.  When  written  documents,  were  yet  rare,  every 
artifioe  was  employed  to  enforce  on  the  attention  or  fix  on  the 
memory  the  verses  sung  by  barda  or  teachers.  Alphabetic 
associations  formed  obvious  and  convenient  aids  for  this  pur- 
pose. In  the  Hebrew  Psalms  of  David,  and  in  other  parts  of 
Scripture,  etriking  specimens  occur.  The  peculiarity  is  not 
retained  in  the  translations,  but  is  indicated  in  the  common 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABETIC AI.   WHIMS. 


41 


version  of  the  119th  Psalm  ly  the  initial  letter''  prefixed  to  its 
divisions.  The  Greek  Anthology  also  presents  esamplea  of 
acrostics,  and  tbey  were  often  used  in  the  old  Lntin  language 
Cicero,  in  his  treatise  "  De  Divinatione,"  haa  this  remarkable 
passage:— "The  yerses  of  th«  Sjbils  (said  he)  are  distinguished 
by  that  arrangement  which  the  Greeks  call  Acrostic ;  where, 
from  the  first  letters  of  each  verse  in  order,  words  are  formed 
which  express  some  particular  meaning;  as  is  tlie  case  with 
some  of  Ennius'a  verses,  tlie  initial  letters  of  which  make 
'  which  Enniua  wrote  ' 

Among  the  modem  i,simples  of  aciosti:,  writing,  the  most 
remarkable  may  be  found  in  the  works  of  Boccaccio.  It  is  a 
poem  of  fifty  cantos,  ot  which  Guinguene  has  preserved  a  speci- 
men in  his  Literary  History  of  Italy 

A  successful  attempt  has  recently  been  made  to  use  this  form 
of  verse  for  conveying  useful  infoimation  and  expressing  agree- 
able reflections,  in  a  volume  t,ontaining  a  series  of  acrostics  on 
eminent  names,  commencing  with  Homer,  and  descending 
chronologically  to  our  own  time  The  ilphabetic  necessity  of 
the  choice  of  words  and  ei^ithets  has  not  hindered  the  writer 
from  giving  distinct  and  geneially  correct  character  to  the  bio- 
graphical subjects,  IS  may  be  seen  in  the  following  selections, 
which  are  as  remark  ihle  for  the  truth  and  dia crimination  of  the 
descriptions  as  for  the  ingenuity  ot  the  diction : 


G  ood  Conntry  Parsnn,  uhaerfnl 

qnMnt, 

Ever  in  fttj  life  a  saint, 

0  'er  Oiy  memory  sweetly  rise 

R  are  old  Izaak'a  anlogies. 

G  iving  us,  in  life-drawn  hue. 

B  ach  Wed  feature  to  our  view 

H  olj  Herbert,  humUe,  mild, 

B  'en  as  simple  as  a  child, 

R  eadj  thy  honnty  to  dispense, 

B  eaming  with  benerolonce, 

B  Ter  hleBBing,  ever  blest. 

R  escuing  the  moat  dlsfrest ; 

T  hy  "Temple"  now  is  Hoaven 

bright 

lyGoogle 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 


D  eep  rolls  oq  deep  in  (Iiy  majestic  line 
T  el,  wtio  tliat  hears  its  ligh  hannonioi 


0  r  "Ugolino'a"  ghaaUy  risage,  wild, 
L  aoking  stern  horror  on  each  starving  < 
D  elights  not  leas  of  social  sort  were  thii 
8  ueh  as  with  Burlie,  or  e'en  witli  JdhnS' 


rilliant  thy  genius  'mongst  a  brill 
nique  thy  eloquence  of  pen  and  t< 
omo's  Tully  loftier  flights  could  si 
indling  thy  Eoul  to  thoughts  that  mutchless 


H 

ow  keen  thy  vis 

on,  e'en  though  roll  of  sight ! 

U 

ing  with  doubl 

lear  light! 

B 

as,  and  their  hi 

es,  thy  curious  ke. 

has  scanned. 

a 

oh  cell,  with  ge 

nucd, 

R  ich  stores  of  hon 

yed  linowledge  thn 

C  opyist  of  Nature 

E 

al  the  scenes  that  in  thy  page  wo 

A 

Hid  tie  huts  wh 

iS 

ight  humor  or  deep  pathos  thou  h 

st  thrown. 

H 

rdof  the  "Bor 

ough"andth^,  "V 

llage,"  soe- 

E 

en  haughty  Byr 

on  owns  he's  charn 

'd  by  thee. 

W  ondroua  Wii^ard  of  the  North, 
A  rmed  with  spells  of  potent  worih  1 
I.  ike  to  that  greatest  Bard  of  ours 
T  he  mighty  magio  of  thy  powers  : 
B  'en  thy  bright  fancy's  offspring  find 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 

8  noh  the  OKadonB  that  we  see- 

0  haraeter,  mannera,  life  in  ttee— 

O  f  Soolia'B  dcBda,  a  proud  display, 

T  bo  glories  of  a  bygona  day; 

T  hy  genlua  foremost  stands  in  all  her  long  array. 


W  undering,  lliroueli  many  a  year,  'mongst  Cnmbria's  hilla, 

0  'a  her  wild  fells,  sweet  vales,  and  sunny  lafeos, 

E  ioh  stores  of  thought  thy  mnsing  mind  dislils, 

D  ay-dreama  of  poesy  thy  soul  awakaa  :— 

B  noh  was  thy  life— a  poef  a  life,  I  weon ; 

W  orstipper  Ihou  of  Nature !  every  aoenB 

0  f  beauty  stirred  Ihy  fancy's  deeper  mood, 
B  eflontion  calmed  the  current  of  thy  blood ! 
T  hua  ia  the  wide  "  Eiouraion*'  of  thy  mind, 

H  igh  thoughlB  in  wm-ds  of  warih  we  still  may  find. 

1  n  easy,  natural,  graceful  charm  of  style, 

B  eaembling  Goldy's  "  Vicar,"— free  IVom  guile : 

V  8in  of  rich  humor  through  thy  "  Skotch-Book"  flows. 

I  magination  her  bright  colors  ahowa. 

H  0  equal  hast  ttiou  'mongst  thy  brother  band, 

G  enial  thy  soul,  worthy  our  own  loved  land. 

M  aaler  Tragedian  1  wHrlhy  all  our  praise. 

A  ction  and  utterance  such  as  bygone  days 

0  ould  ofCcner  boast,  were  thiue.    Need  we  but  name 

Bi  Oman  Virginius  f  while  our  Shakapeare'a  faino 

B  ver  'twas  thy  chief  joy  and  pride  to  uprear, 

A  nd  give  us  back  Maobatb,  Othello,  Lear. 

D  alight  to  thousanda  oft  tbou  gav'at,  and  now 


LOSHFELLOTT. 

L  ays  like  ihlna  have  many  a  charm ; 

0  ft  thy  them 

N  ow  o'er  Sla 

cry's  guilt  and  woes, 

Grisfandsho 

ine'a  deep  hues  it  throwsi 

PnrupAlpin 

,"Bieelsior,''n 

ow  tbe  stirring  word ; 

-"LifB's  Psalm 

'  now,  onward  is  inviting, 

L  on^ngs  for 

nobler  deeds  esciOng; 

,                                      0  'er  Britain 

ttow  resounds  thy  name. 

T  bile  States  unborn  shall  sweU  thy  fanw. 

lyClOOglC 


ALPHABEO'lOAL   WHIMS. 


Sere 

elj  bright  thy  iif 

are 

8t« 

mdidgiid 

ltn« 

feet  romimtio  Dc 

ter's 

Und 

r  great 

-th 

m  Epic  lays. 

Thn, 

dst  a.  poa 

H  i>w 

Mfldoc 

ivandered 

the 

Atln 

Jlnslt 

raEeh 

ama.  Rod 

Tia 

;he  brav 

Hear 

from  our 

foD 

des 

M  aatatly  oritiol  inwliose  brilliant  style 
A  nd  rich  tistorio  ooloring  breathes  again — 
C  lothed  in  most  pieturcsquo  costume  the  while — 
A  II  the  dim  past,  with  all  its  bnatling  train. 
U  nder  this  ymd,  eloquent  pwnting,  see 

A  nd  in  tbj  slirring  ballad  poetij, 

I  oulh'a  dreams  of  ancient  Rome  onee  mora  our  minds  engage. 

0      VER  R 

Oliver,  a  sailor  adp  whm        dptan 

extempore  rhyming,  wh        n  a  h  B  n  d 

Arnold,   after  the   w        w  k  d  b       t  te  am 

pirtj  of  English  offie       w  m  mp  u      ff       n 

whereupon  he  stood  npad  dh  wgEuhs 

ourse,  whiciSi  would  h  fiDSpbrnf  — 

B  om  for  a  cur     to  m 

B  arth's  broadest  realm  ne'er  knew  so  bla*k  a  mind. 

N  igbt's  sable  reii  joar  crimes  can  ncrer  hide, 

E  Bch  one  so  great,  'twould  glut  historic  Ude. 

B  efiinct,  your  cursed  memory  will  11™ 

I  n  all  the  glare  that  infamy  'oaii  give. 

C  urses  of  ages  will  attend  your  name, 

T  raitora  alone  will  glory  in  your  shame. 

A  Imighty  vengeance  sMmly  waits  to  rail 

N  atare  looks  shuddering  back  with  conscious  dnad 
0  n  eueh  a  tarnished  blot  as  she  has  made. 
L  eC  hell  receive  you,  riveted  in  ohains, 
D  oomed  to  tlie  hottest  focus  of  its  flames, 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABBTIOAt  WHIMS.  ^"^ 

AtLITEHATIVE   ACaOSTIC. 

The  following  alliterative  acrostic  is  a  gem  in  its  way.  Miss 
Kittj  Stephens  was  the  celebrated  Londou  vocalist,  and  is  now 
the  Dowager  Countess  of  Essex  : — 

B  he  EingB  30  soil,  so  ewOBt,  so  soothing  still 

T  hat  to  tho  tone  ten  ihousand  thougiita  thero  thrill  i 

E  Ijsian  Bftatasies  enchant  each  ear— 

P  leasure'B  pure  pioions  poiae— prince,  peasant,  peer, 

H  nshing  high  hyrons.  Heaven  hears  her  harmonj,- 

B  arth'B  envy  ondBj  enthrnlled  each  ear,  each  oje; 

S  oul-fltirring  Stephehs'  sliill,  sure  seraphs  sing  the  same. 


CHRONOGRAMMATIO   PASQUINADE. 

On  the  election  of  Pope  Leo  X.,  in  1440,  the  following  sati- 
rical acrostic  appeared,  to  mark  tho  date 


MONASTIC   VERSE. 

The  merit  of  this  fine  specimen  will  he  found  in  its  heing  at 
the  same  time  acrostic,  tiKisostic.,  and  felestic. 


Expellit  te. 
Sic  oieoas  r 
ViviSeansq 


iguikj       fidera      ctall 

E  toto  Phcebns  nt  orbE  i 

JESUS  oaliginis  nmbraS, 

Vero   prraeordia   motV, 


The  following  translation  preserves  the  acrostic  and  mesostic, 
though  not  the  telestic  form  of  the  original  :— 

EulSniBg  hUws  ™d;  expose,  EjTpd  nighl's  gloom  iwaj. 
sTmhi  into  the  darkest    so«l,  JESUS,  Xhou  do«  impart, 

Uplifting  Thy  life-giving  smiles  "7°  *«/:„^™f,ts  Tho^  art. 

■     BnnThouofEighteouBnessBiTine,     Sole  King  of  Samts  Thou  art. 


lyClOOglC 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 


The  figure  of  a  eish  carved  on  many  of  the  monumenta  in 
the  Roman  Catacombs,  is  an  emblematic  acrostic,  intended 
formerly  to  point  out  the  hurial-plaoe  of  a  Christian,  without 
revealing  the  fact  to  the  pagan  persecutora.  The  Greek  word 
for  Jish  is  IxOvg,  which  the  Christians  understood  to  mean  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  the  Saviour, — the  letters  forming  the 
initials  of  the  following  Greek  words  : — 

It}'}oui; —  Jesus 

JipWTuq — Christ, 

d^oo—      of  God, 

Ywg—       Son, 

Ziarrjp —   Saviour. 

NAPOLEON    FAMILY, 

The  names  of  the  male  crowned  heads  of  the  extinct  Napo- 
y  form  a  remarkable  acrostic  : — 

IT  ftpoleon,  EmperoT  of  tlie  FrenDb. 

I   osaph,  King  of  Spiua. 

H  ieronjmus.  King  of  Westplialia. 

I   oothim.  King  of  Naples. 

L  ouia,  King  of  Holland. 


Bachel,  on  one  occasion,  received  a  most  remarkable  present. 
[t  was  a  diadem,  in  antique  stjle,  adorned  with  six  jewels.    The    . 
itones  were  so  set  as  to  spell,  in  acrostic  style,  the  name  of  the 
^eat  artiste,  and  also  to  signify  six  of  her  principal  rSIcs,  thus : 

B  nby,  R  osano, 

A  metbjEt,  A  mcnnide, 


This  mode  of  constructing  a  name  or  motto  by  the  initial 
etters  of  gems  waa  formerly  fashionable  on  wedding  rings. 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABETICiL  WHIMS. 


47 


MASONIC  MEMENTO. 

The  foUowing  cmious  memento  was  written  in  the  early  part 
of  last  century : — 

M— Magnitude,  ModoTation,  MagnanlBiity. 

A— Affabilitj,  Affection,  Attsntion. 

S— SilcnoB,  Seorcoy,  Scouritj. 

0— Ohedieooe,  Order,  CEconomj. 

H— Noble,  Natural,  Neighborlj. 

E— Kational,  EeciprocatiTB,  Kcoeptwe. 

Y— Yielding,  Ypigbt  (fixed),  Tare(readr). 

Wkich  is  explained  thus  :— 

Masonry,  of  things,  teaohes  ' 


in  their  just  Magnitude. 


To  inordi 

ato  affections  the  art  of     -         -         - 

To  love  < 

oh  other  mlh  true      -        -         -         - 

And  to  p 

Miignanimity. 
Affability, 
Affeo' " 


Towratisib^dutel,  yp    f    tly  IPSbt 

And  to  do  all  that      t    Ij  g     d  ni       w  II    gly  Y 

HEMPE. 

Eaoon  says, "  The  trivial  prophecy  which  I  heard  when  I  was 
a  child  and  Queen  Elizabeth  was  in  the  flower  of  her  years  waa- 

Wten  Hcmpe  ia  spun 
England's  done ; 

.hereby  it  wa.  generall,  eoneeiTCd  tlial  «fKr  the  •''''''k" 
had  reiBned  which  h.d  the  letters  of  th.t  ,.,d  EEMPE 
(whieh  were  Heir,,  Edw.rd,  M«,,  Phrlip  Eto.heth ) 
kala«d  should  00,™  10  itter  eonfiuion ;  which,  thmfa  he 
to  God  i»  »eiiled  in  tho  change  of  tie  name,  for  that  the 
King's  Mjle  ■»  o™  »»  "'•"  »'  ■^"S'"'''  ^'^  "'  Bnlam." 


„Google 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 

THE  BEEVITT   OP   HUMAN   LIFG. 

Behold,  alatj  oar  daya  loe  apenii  .• 

Sow  vain  they  be,  liow  soon  Ihe^  endl 

BEHOLD 

Hoir  short  a  apim 

WiL9  long  enough  of  old 

To  meaaora  out  the  life  of  man; 

n  thoso  woll-tempered  days  tis  time  w£L3  the' 

ii,  oast  up,  and  fouad  but  threescore  years  i 

ALAS! 

.    What  iaaU  that? 


ma  are  swift,  which  having  ran 
OUR  DAYS 


WE  SPEND 

A  Ion 

years'  broa 

h 

What  'tis  to 

!ve  in  fear 

of  death 

ildish  dreama 

are  filled  w 

th  pain 

ad  joys 

ease  our  sen 

e,  and  wai 

ng  provt 

but  toys. 

HOW  VAIN, 

How 

wretched 

Poor  man 

that  doth 

amain 

His  days  ore  short  at  longest ;  few  at  most ; 

They  aro  but  bad  at  best,  yat  lavished  out,  or  lost 

THEY  BE 

The  secret  springs 

That  maka  our  minatea  flee 

On  wings  more  swift  than  eagles'  wings ! 

Our  life's  a  clock,  and  every  gasp  of  breath 

calhes  forth  a  warning  grief,  till  time  shall  strike  a  death. 

HOW  SOON 

Our  new-born  light 

And  tbia,  bow  soon  to  gray-haired  night; 

We  spring,  we  bud,  we  blossom,  and  we  blast, 

Etb  we  can  count  our  days,  our  days  they  fiee  so  fast 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS. 


A  VALENTINE. 

The  readerj  by  taking  the  first  letter  of  the  first  of  the  follow- 
ing liaea,  the  second  letter  of  the  second  line,  the  third  of  the 
third,  and  bo  oa  to  the  end,  can  spell  the  name  of  the  lady  to 
whom  they  were  addressed  by  Edgar  A.  Poe. 

For  het  this  rhjme  is  peancd  whose  iBminous  eyes, 

BEightlj  oxpieaaiTo  as  tlie  twins  of  Lredo, 
ShAll  find  lier  own  sweet  name,  that  nestling  lies 

PpoK  the  page,  enwrapped  from  every  reader. 
SoarCh  namiwlj  tho  lines !— they  liold  a  tieaauro 


Divin: 


a  taliei 


Searoh  well  the  measu 

The  words— the  ayUables  !     Do  not  forget 
The  ia'iviAlest  poinl^  or  yon  may  lose  yonr  laborj 

And  yat  thoRe  ie  in  ttjs  no  Gordian  Imot 
Whieh  one  miGht  not  nndo  witbont  a  aabre, 

If  one  could  mEroly  eomprekend  tlio  plot. 
BDwritten  npoN  the  leaf  whera  now  are  peering 

EyoB  ecinlillaTiag  bouI,  there  lie  perdus 
Three  eloquent  wOrda,  oft  uttered  in  tho  hearing 

Of  poets,  by  poeia— aS  the  nama'a  a  poet's,  too. 
Its  letters,  aJtbouOh  natarally  lying 

Like  the  knight  PintO— Mendez  Berdinando— 
Still  form  a  synonym  lOr  Truth.     Cease  trying  ! 

Yon  will  not  read  the  riDdle,  though  you  do  the  bi 


ANAGRAMS. 

But  with  sljll  more  diaordared  march  advunoa 
(Nor  maroh  it  seemed,  but  wild  fantaetio  dance) 
The  tiDCOQth  Anagrams,  distorted  train, 
Shifting  in  double  maaea  o'er  the  plain. — Sartbltnad. 

Camden,  in  a  chapter  in  his  Remains,  on  this  frivolous  and 
now  almost  oWlete  intellectual  eseroise,  defines  Anagrams  to 


lyClOOglC 


50 


ALPHABETICAL    WHIMB. 


be  i.  dissoluhou  of  a  name  into  its  letters,  as  its  elements;  and 
a  Dew  coQnection  into  words  is  formed  by  their  transposition,  if 
po«iibie,  witiioni  addition,  subtraction,  or  change  of  the  letters  : 
and  the  words  should  mate  a  sentence  applicable  to  the  person 
or  thing  named.  The  anagram  is  complimentary  or  satirical ; 
it  may  contain  some  allusion  to  an  eTOnt,  or  describe  some  per- 
sonal characteristic.  Thus,  Sir  Thomas  Wiat  bore  hia  own 
designation  in  his  name: — 


Aaironoiner  may  be  made  Momv-starer,  and  Telegraph,  Great 
Hdp.  Funeral  may  be  converted  into  Real  Fun,  and  Fresby- 
terian  may  be  made  Beat  in  prayer.  In  utone  may  be  found 
tones,  notes,  or  seton;  and  (taking  j  and  v  as  duplicates  of  i 
and  w)  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  may  be  arranged  so  as  to 
form  the  words  hack,  frovm'd,  phlegm,  quiz,  and  Styx.  R<ym,a 
may  be  transposed  into  amor,  armo,  Maro,  mora,  Oram,  or 
ramo.  The  following  epigram  occurs  in  a  book  printed  in  1660; 

Hate  and  dobile  Eoma  tirough  the  world  has  spread] 
Yot  Roma  omo>'  is,  if  backward  road : 


It  is  said  that  the  cabalists  aioong  the  Jews  were  professed 
anagrammatists,  the  third  part  of  their  art  called  ihem.uru 
(changing)  being  nothing  more  than  finding  the  hidden  and 
mystical  meaning  in  names,  by  transposing  and  differently 
combining  the  letters  of  those  names.  Thus,  of  the  letters  of 
Noah's  name  in  Hebrew,  they  made^-ace;  and  of  the  Messiah 
they  made  he  shall  rejoice. 

Lycophron,  a  Greek  writer  who  lived  three  centuries  before 
the  Clirisliaii  era,  records  two  anagrams  in  his  poem  on  the 
siege  of  Troj  entitled  Cassandra.  One  is  on  the  name  of 
Ptolemy  Philadelphus,  in  whose  reign  Lycophron  lived  : — 


The  other  is  on  Ptolemy's  queen,  Arsinoe:- 


lyGoogle 


51 


Eustachiua  informs  us  that  this  practice  was  common  among 
the  Greeks,  and  gives  numerous  examples  ;  such,  for  instance, 
as  the  transposition  of  the  word  Aperrj,  virtue,  into  Epar^,  lovely. 

Owen,  the  Welsh  epigrammatist,  sometimes  called  the  British 
Martial,  lived  in  the  golden  age  of  an  agrammatism.  The 
following  are  fair  specimens  of  hia  ingenuity  :— 


n^tJu.  es  boDu 

anna 

ma 

us;  6 

iene/ 

Hamana  ouBt. 

i,'"'3 

lus 

argo 

onus. 

Db  ElDE- 

Akaok. 

M 

igui 

CDPL 

a  fides,  ceria 

cut  Ci-eta,  fido 

fictili 

,a. 

rtBcar 

Bre  VITAS— Aha 

MUAT 

R1PI.B 

Perapieuabrev 

tfltap 

bil 

magis 

affioit 

In  a  A'ewi  Se/^  to  Discourse,  12mo,  London,  1684,  occurs 
,n  anagram  with  a  very  quaint  epigrammatic  "exposition :" — 


For  when  their  substances  io  liquor  sink, 
Both  properly  arc  said  to  be  in  drink. 

Cotton  Mather  was  once  described  aa  distinguished  for — 


Sylvester,  in  dedicating  to  hia  sovereign  his  tranalatioa  of 
Du  Bartas,  rings  the  following  loyal  change  on  the  name  of  his 


Of  the  poet  Waller,  the  old  anagi 


jrammatist  said : — 


The  author  of  an  extraordinary  work  on  heraldry  w 
expressively  complimented : — 

Bandle  Holmea. 


Lo,  Men's  Herald  1 


lyClOOglC 


52  ALPHABETICAL   WHIMS, 

The  following  on  tte  name  of  tlie  mistress  of  Charles  IX.  of 
France  is  tistorically  true  ; — 

Marie  Touchel, 
Je  charme  lout. 

In  the  assassin  of  Heurj  III., 

Frlre  Jacques  Clement^ 

they  discoyered 

C'est  I'enfer  qui  m'a  or^e. 

The  French  appear  to  ha^e  practised  this  art  with  peculiar 
facility.  A  Freuch  poet,  deeply  in  love,  in  one  day  sent  hia 
mistress,  whoso  name  was  Magdclaine,  three  dozen  of  ana- 
grams on  her  single  name. 

The  father  Pierre  de  St.  Louia  became  a  Carmelite  monk  on 
discovering  that  his  lay  name — 

Ludovieus  Barlelemi — 
yielded  the  anagram — 

Cttrmolo  so  devovet. 

Of  all  the  eitravaganoes  occasioned  by  the  anagrammatic 
fever  when  at  its  height,  none  equals  what  is  recorded  of  an 
infatuated  Frenchman  in  the  seventeenth  century,  named  Andr^ 
Pujom,  who,  finding  in  his  name  the  anagram  Pendu  A  Riom, 
(the  seat  of  criminal  justice  in  the  province  of  Auvergne,)  felt 
impelled  to  fulfill  his  destiny,  committed  a  capital  offence  in 
Auvergne,  and  was  actually  hung  in  the  place  to  which  the 
omen  pointed. 

The  anagram  on  General  Monk,  afterwards  Duke  of  Albe- 
marle, on  the  restoration  of  Charles  II.,  is  also  a  chronogram, 
including  the  date  of  that  important  event : — 
Georgius  Monke,  Dui  de  Aumarlo, 
Ego  Ragom  reduxi  Ano.  So.  MDOLW. 

The  mildness  of  the  government  of  Eliaabeth,  contrasted  with 
her  intrepidity  against  the  Iberians,  is  thus  picked  out  of  het 
title;  she  is  made  the  English  lamb  and  the  Spanish  lioness. 

Aoglif  Agna,  UibeTiEO  Lea. 


lyGoogle 


AlPHAHETICAL   ' 


53 


The  unhappy  history  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scote,  the  depriya- 
tiou  of  her  kiugdom,  and  her  yiolout  death,  are  expressed  in 
the  following  Latin  anagram  : — 

Maria  Stooftrda  Soolocum  Eeginft. 

Tnisa  vi  Eegnis,  morte  amara  uado. 

In  Taylor's  Suddaine  Tume  of  Fortunes  Wheele,  oecura  the 
following  very  singular  example  :— 

But,  bolie  father,  I  am  oertifjed 

Tliat  they  your  power  and  policye  doride; 

And  how  of  you  tliey  moie  an  anagram. 

The  best  and  bitterest  that  tke  wits  could  frame. 

As  thus : 
Stipremws  Poiiiifea,  Bomanus. 

Annagr^piina : 
0  non  ''um  super  petrain  Ji^us. 

The  ana^nm  on  the  well-known  bibliographer,  William 
Oldys,  may  claim  a  place  among  the  £i^t  productions  of  this 
clas>=  It  was  hy  Oldys  himself,  and  was  found  by  his  eseou- 
tors  imong  his  MSS 

In  word  and  ""ill  i  AM  a  friend  to  you ; 
And  one  friend  old  is  worth  a  huudred  new. 

The  following  anagram,  preserved  in  the  files  of  the  First 
Church  in  Boshnry,  was  sent  'to  Thomas  Dudley,  a  governor 
and  major-general  of  the  colony  of  Massachusetts,  in  1645. 
He  died  in  1653,  aged  77. 

THOWAS   DUDtET. 

Ah!  old  must  dye. 
A  death's  head  on  your  hand  you  naede  not  ireare, 
A  dying  head  you  on  your  Bhouldorabeare. 
Ton  need  not  one  to  mind  you,  you  must  dye, 
Tou  in  your  name  may  apell  mortalitje. 
Yoonge  men  may  dye,  but  old  men,  these  dye  must ; 
TwiU  not  be  long  before  yon  turne  to  dust. 
Before  you  tume  to  dust!  ah!  must!  old!  dyo! 
What  shall  youuge  doe  when  old  in  dual  doe  lye  1 
When  old  in  dnat  lye,  what  N.  England  doe  ? 
When  old  in  dust  doc  lye,  it's  best  dye  too. 


lyClOOglC 


54 

In  an  Elegy  written  by  Rev.  Jolin  Cotton  on  the  death  of 
John  Alden,  a  magistrate  of  the  old  Plymouth  Colony,  who 
died  in  1687,  the  following  phonetic  anagram  occura  ; — 

John  Aldan— Ead  al  on  hi. 

The  Calvinistio  opponents  of  Arniinius  made  of  hia  name  a 
not  very  ereditablo  Latin  anagram ; — 

Jiitobus  Arminiua, 

Vaniorbia  amicus; 

(The  friend  of  a  false  world.) 

while  his  friends,  taking  advantage  of  the  Dutch  mode  of  writ- 
ing it,  ^anuicius,  hurled  hack  the  conclusive  argument, 

(I  have  had  charge  of  Zion.) 

Perhaps  tie  most  estraordinary  anagram  to  he  met  with,  is 
that  on  the  Latin  of  Pilate's  question  to  the  Saviour,  "  What 
is  truth?"— St.  John,  xviii.  38, 


(It  is  tbs  moil  who  is  before  7ou.) 

Live,  Tile,  and  evil,  hare  the  salf-same  letters  j 
He  liTea  butTilo,  whom  evil  holds  in  fttWrs. 
If  you  transpose  what  ladies  wear— Vbil, 
'Twill  plainly  show  what  had  folks  are- Vn.a. 
Again  if  you  transposa  the  same, 
You'll  see  an  ancient  Hebrew  narae— Lbvi. 
Cliange  it  again,  and  it  will  show- 
What  all  on  eaith  desire  to  do— Live. 
Transpose  the  letters  yet  once  more. 
What  bad  men  do  joa'll  then  explore — Bvni, 


A  lady,  heing  asked  by  a  gentleman  to  join  in  the  honds  of 
matrimony  with  him,  wrote  the  word  "  Stripes,"  stating  at 
the  time  that  the  letters  making  up  the  word  stripes  could  he 
IS  to  make  an  answer  to  his  question.  The  result 
d  satisfactory. 


lyGoogle 


The  two  which  follow  are  peculiarly  appropriate  :— 

Floreooe  Siglitmsale,  John  Abernethj, 


MET  I 
EMIT 

This  word,  Time,  is  the  only  word  in  the  Eoglish  laDguage 
which  can  he  thus  arranged,  and  tte  different  transpositions 
thereof  are  all  at  the  same  time  Latin  words.  These  words,  in 
English  aa  weO  as  in  Latin,  may  be  read  either  upward  or 
downward.  Their  signification  as  Latin  words  is  as  foUows  ;— 
Time— fear  thou;  Item— likewise ;  Meti— to  be  measured; 
Emit — he  huys. 

Some  striking  German  and  Latin  anagrams  have  been  made 
of  Luther's  name,  of  which  the  following  are  specimens. 
Doctor  Martinus  Lutherns  transposed,  gives  0  Rom,  Luther 
ist  der  ^diwan.  In  D.  Martinus  Lutherus  may  be  found  ut 
turris  das  Umm  (like  a  tower  you  give  light).  In  Martinus 
Luthevas  we  have  vir  mnlta  slruens  (the  man  who  buiHs  up 
much)  and  fer  matrix  iraUus  (he  gave  three  wounds  to  the 
mother  church).  Martin  Luther  will  make  lehrt  in  Armv,th 
(he  teaches  in  poverty). 

JahloBski  welcomed  the  visit  of  Stanislaus,  King  of  Poland, 
with  his  nohle  relatives  of  the  house  of  Lescinski,  to  the  an- 
nual examination  of  the  students  under  his  care,  at  the  gymna- 
slum  of  Lisaa,  with  a  numhet  of  anagrams,  all  oompoaed  of  the 
letters  in  the  words  Domus  Lescmia.  The  recitations  closed 
with  a  heroic  dance,  in  which  each  youth  carried  a  shield  in- 
scribed with  a  legend  of  the  letters.  After  a  new  evolution,  the 
boys  exhibited  the  words  Ades  incolumis;  next,  Omnu  es 
hxida;  next,  Omne  dt  Incida ;  fifthly,  Mane  ddus  lodj 
sixthly.  Sis  columna  Dei;  and  at  the  eoncbaiou,  I  scand<r 
8oUum. 


lyGoogle 


ALPHABETIOAL  WHIMS. 

A  TELEGRAM  ANAGKAMMATIBED. 

Though  hut  a  laie  germ,  with  a  wondrons  elation, 
Tet  like  a  great  elm  it  o'ershadowe  each  Btation. 

So  jojoua  the  orowd  was,  you'd  thought  it  a,  glee  martt 

But  they  ra,ged  at  no  news  from  the  uatiou'e  belligennt, 

And  I  sdd  hem  rage,  since  t&e  air  ie  refrigerant. 

I  then  met  targe  nambers,  whose  drink  was  not  Bherbet, 

Who  scarce  oonld  look  up  when  their  ejcs  the  gas-gtare  mtl 

So  when  I  had  learned  from  eommeroial  adviaer 

That  were  gait  for  Band  was  the  great  ferbiiiaer, 

I  hade  Mr.  Eaglet,  althongh  'two*  ideal. 

Get  some  from  the  elay-pit,  and  bo  gei'm  real,- 

Then,  JDst  arS  my  footstep  nas  leaving  the  portal, 

I  met  an  elm  targe  on  agreat  Highland  mortal) ' 

With  the  maid  he  had  woo'd  by  the  loch's  flowery  margelet. 

And  row'd  in  his  boat,  which  for  rhyme's  sake  call  bargelet. 

And  blithe  to  thobrccae  would  have  set  the  sail  daily, 

But  it  blew  at  that  rate  which  the  sailors  term  t/ah,  aye; 

I  stumbled  against  the  fair  bride  ho  had  marriod, 

When  a  merle  gal  at  large  ftoma  cage  that  she  carried; 

She  gave  a  loud  screech  1  and  I  could  not  well  blame  her. 


Anagrams  are  sometimes  found  io  old  epitaphial  inscriptions. 
For  example,  at  St.  Andrews  : — 


At  Ncwenbam  church,  Northampton  :— 

William  Theraeton. 
0  little  worth  in  mmi. 

At  Kejnsham ; — 

Mrs.  Joane  Flover. 
Love /or  anie. 

At  Mannington,  1631  :— 

Katherine  Lougher, 
La^er  tak.^  higler. 


lyClOOglC 


ALPHABETIOAL  WHIMS.  lit 

Maitland  has  the  following  curious  specimen  : — 
How  mucii  there  is  in  a  word — monastery,  saja  I :  why,  that 
makes  nmty  Ronte;  and  whea  I  looked  at  it  again,  it  was  evi- 
dently more  nastif—n  very  vile  place  or  mean  Uy.  Ay,  mon- 
ster, says  I,  you  are  found  out.  What  monster?  said  the  Pope. 
What  monster?  said  I.  Why,  your  own  image  there,  stone 
Mary.  That,  he  replied,  is  my  one  star,  my  Stella  Maris,  my 
treasure,  my  guide !  No,  said  I,  you  should  rather  say,  my 
treason.  Yet  no  arms,  said  he.  No,  quoth  I,  quiet  may  suit 
best,  as  Jong  as  you  have  no  mastery,  I  mean  m/>ney  arts.  No, 
said  he  again,  those  are  Tory  means;  and  Dan,  my  senator, 
will  baffle  them.  I  don't  know  that,  said  I,  hut  I  think  one 
might  make  no  m^an  story  out  of  this  one  word — monastery. 


tiHEONOGBAMS. 

Apdison,  in  his  remarks  on  the  diff  nt   [      es   f  false  wit, 

(gpeot.   No.  60,)  thus   notices  the  eh  m          Tl  is  kind 

of  wit  appears  very  often   on  modern  mil         p        Uj  those 

of  G-ermany,  when  they  represent  in  tl  pt    n  th    year  iu 

which  they  were  coined.  Thus  we  se  m  d  1  i  (justavua 
Adolphus  the  foUovring  words  : — 

ChkIstVs  DuX  jjkgo  TnrVMPBVa. 

If  yon  take  the  pains  to  pick  the  figures  out  of  the  several 
words,  and  range  tliem  in  their  proper  order,  you  will  find  they 
amount  to  MDCXVVVII,  or  1627,  the  year  in  which  the 
medal  was  stamped;  for  as  some  of  the  letters  distinguish 
themselves  from  the  rest  and  overtop  their  fellows,  they  are  to 
he  considered  in  a  double  capacity,  both  as  letters  and  as 
figures.  Your  laborious  G-erman  wits  will  turn  over  a  whole 
dictionary  for  one  of  these  ingenious  devices.  A  man  would 
think  they  were  searching  after  an  apt  classical  term ;  but  in- 
stead of  that  they  are  looking  out  a  word  that  has  an  L,  an  M, 
or  a  D,  in  it.     When  therefore  we  meet  with  any  of  these  in- 


lyClOOglC 


58  tLI  H  •l.BETICAL   WHIMS 

soriptions,  we  ire  not  ho  miiLb,  to  look  in  them  for  tte  ttoagkt 
as  foe  the  year  of  the  Lord 

Apropos  of  this  humorous  dlluaion  to  the  Gt-rmaneb^ue 
character  of  the  chronogram,  it  is  worthy  of  notice  that  Euio 
peaa  tourists  ind  far  more  Dwmeioui  examples  of  it  in  the  m 
Bcriptions  on  the  chuiches  on  the  bants  of  the  Khine  than  la 
any  other  part  of  the  continent 

On  the  title  pnge  ot  "  Rugj  Groliiis  hu  Sopkompaueas, 
the  date,  165^  is  not  given  m  the  usual  turm,  but  is  included 
in  the  name  of  the  author,  thus  — 

pbanCIs  ooLDsMIth. 
Howell,  in   his  German  Diel,  after   narrating   the  death   of 
Charles,  son  of  Philip  II.  of  Spain,  says  : — 

If  you  desire  to  know  the  year,  this  chronogram  will  te!l  you : 

FiLIVa  JUTE  DIeM  pathIos  IhqVIrIt  Is  amnos. 
MDLVVniIIIII,  or  150?. 

The  following  commemorates  the  death  of  Queen  Elizabeth :. — 

My   Day   la    Closed   In   Immortality.      (1603.) 

A  German  book  was  issued  in  1706,  containing  fao-similea 
and  descriptions  of  more  than  two  hundred  medals  ooined  in 
honor  of  Martin  Luther,  An  inacriptioo  on  one  of  them  ex- 
presses the  date  of  his  death,  1546,  as  follows; — 

ECCa  cVno  MorltVa  IVatVa  Id  paCe  ClitlatI  esItV  tVto  et  beato. 

The  most  extraordinary  attempt  of  this  kind  that  has  yet 
been  made,  bears  the  following  title  : — 

Ohronographica  Gratidalio  in  Felicissimum,  adventum  Se- 
renudmi  Cardindlis  Terdinandi,  Mispamamm  In/imfis,  a 
CoUegio  Soc.  Jesu. 

A  dedication  to  St.  Michael  and  an  address  to  Ferdinand  are 
followed  by  one  hundred  hexameters,  everif  one  o/ii>hick  is  a 
chronogram,,  and  each  gipes  the  same  result,  1634.  The  first 
and  last  verses  are  subjoined  as  a  apeoimen. 

AngeIrt  CfflLrVogl  MIChaeL  LUX  UnlCa  CostlTa. 
VeralCOLIa  InCLUsa,  fl.Uent  In  sfeOOLa  CentUM. 


lyClOOglC 


PAL1NDIIOME3, 


EEOURRENT,  RECIPROCAL,   OR   REVBftSIBLE  WORDS  AND 


The  only  fair  specimen  we  can  find  of  reciprocal  words,  or 
ttose  which,  read  hackwarda  or  forwards,  are  the  same,  is  the 
following  couplet,  which,  according  to  an  old  hook,  cost  the 
author  a  world  of  foolish  labor : — 

Odo  tenet  mulum,  madidam  mulum  tenet  Odo. 
Anna  tenet  mappam,  madidam  mappam  tenet  Anna, 

The  following  admired  reciprocal  lines,  addressed  to  St.  Mar- 
tin by  Satan,  according  to  the  legend,  the  reader  will  find  on 
pcrus^,  either  backwards  or  forwards,  precisely  the  same ; — 


ind  bavins  been 


at  tho  devil,  wlio  politely 


[St.  Martin  having  given  up  the  prof 
made  Bishop  of  Tours,  when  prelates  i 

matters.  As  he  waa  walking  along  the 
accosted  bjm,  and  ventured  to  observe  howfatigning  and  indecorous  it  was 
for  him  to  perform  so  long  a  journey  on  foot,  like  the  commonest  pilgrim. 
The  Saint  understood  the  drift  of  Old  Niok'a  address,  and  commanded  him 

did  in  a  twinkling  by  aaauming  the  shape  of  a  mule.  The  Saint  jumped 
upon  tho  fiend's  baob,  who  at  first  trottad  cheerfully  along,  but  soon  alaek- 
ened  hia  paae.  The  bishop  of  course  had  neither  whip  nor  spurs,  but  was 
posaeaaed  of  a  muob  mora  powerful  etimulue,  for,  says  the  legend,  ho  made 
the  aign  of  the  cross,  and  the  smarting  devil  instantly  galloped  awoy.  Soon 
however,  and  naturally  enough,  the  father  of  sin  returned  to  sloth  and  ob- 
stinacy, and  Martin  hurried  him  again  with  repeated  signs  of  the  orosa, 
till,  twitched  and  stung  to  the  ijniok  by  those  erosaings  ao  hateful  to  him, 
the  vexed  and  tired  reprobata  utlersd  the  foregoing  diatich  in  a  rage, 
maaming,  Crasi,  erosi  j/ovrtel/;  jou  ntinoy  and  vex  me  hm1*ob(  necs miVj;  for 
Dioinj  to  my  exerlioni,  Borne,  the  abject  of  your  toifSea,  Kill  soon  6e  neac] 

The  Palindrome  ohangea  the  sense  in  the  backward  reading; 
the  FerSMfl  Oancrinm  retains  the  sense  in  both  instances  un- 
changed, as  in  this  instance  : — 

Bei  Laid  lieh  stets  Heil  die  Lieb. 
(In  trouble  comfort  is  lent  by  love.) 


lyGoogle 


W  PALINDKOMES. 

Similarly  recurrent  is  the  lawyer's  njotto, — 

translated  by  Camden,  "  Give  mo  my  fee,  I  warrant  you  free." 
The  Greek  inscription  on  the  moiSc|ue  of  St.  Sophia,  in  Con- 

Niifiw  ifoji-q^aTa  il-q  iiomwj  Siptv* 
same  words,  whether  read  from  left  to  right,  or 
from  i^ht  to  left.     So  also  tlie  expressions  in  English, — 

Madam,  I'm  Adam.  {Adam  to  Eve.) 


I  ere  I  saw  Elba.     {Nap 

le'm  loq.) 

raw  was  I  e 

e  I  saw  war 

emit  revel  e 

re  Lever  tim 

did  murder 

Red  root  pu 

up  to  order 

ret  Maeveh 

wd  did  I  lire 

era  I  did  dwel. 

Draw  p«pU 

lip  upward 

This  enigmatical  line  surrounds  a  figure  of  the  sun 
mosaic  pavement  of  Sa.  Maria  del  Fiori,  at  Florence; — 

These  lines  are  supposed  to  be  addressed  to  a  young  n 
tained  at  Rome  by  a  love  affair ; — 


At  Bame  you  live — at  Rome  yon  love 
From  Rome  that  love  may  jou  affr 

AlthOTlghyon'd  leave,  jou  nerer  moTi 
For  love  and  Romo  both  bar  your  t 


Dean  Swift  wrote  a  letter  to  Dr.  Sheridan,  composed  of  Latin: 
words  strung  together  as  mere  gibberish  but  each  word,  when 


lyClOOglC 


PALINDROMES.  Ol 

read  backwards,  makes  passable  English.     Take  for  example 
the  following  short  sentences : — 

Mi  Sana.     Odioao  ni  mus  rem.     Moto  ima  os  Ulud  diima  nam  ? 
(I'manaas.  0  so  Idoia  Eummer.  0  Tom,  am  I  bo  dull,  I  a  mad  man?) 

Inscription  for  a  hospital,  paraphrased  from  the  Psalms  : — 

Aoide  me  malo,  aed  non  desola  ma,  medioa. 

The  ingenious  Latin  verses  subjoined  are  reTersible  verbally 
only,  not  literally,  and  will  be  found  to  embody  opposite  r 
ings  by  commencing  with   the    last  word  and  readin 
wards ; — 

Prospioimua  modo,  quod  durabuat  tempore  longo, 
PoJdera,  neo  patris  pax  eito  diffugiet. 
Diffugiet  oito  pax  patriie,  noo  fcedera  longo, 
TamporK  durabunt,  qnod  modo  proapieimua. 

The  following  hexameter  ftom  Santa  Maroa  Novella,  Flo- 
rence, refers  to  the  sacrifioe  of  Abel  (Orla.  iv.  4).  Kevcrsed, 
it  is  a  pentameter,  and  refers  to  the  sacrifice  of  Cain  (iv.  8). 


y  baek- 


The  subjoined  distich  ai-ose  from  the  following  circumstance, 
A  tutor,  after  having  explained  to  bis  class  one  of  the  ode 
Horace,  undertook  to  dictate  the  same  in  besameter  verse 
e  (as  he  said).  It  cost  him  considerable  trouble 
1  several  times,  and  occasionally  substituted  other  words 
but  finally  succeeded.  Some  of  his  scholars  thought  be  woulc 
not  accomplish  his  task ;  others  maintained  that,  having  begr- 
it  was  a  point  of  honor  to 


of 


be 


Addison  mentions  an  epigram  called  the  Wiickes'  Prayer, 
that  "fell  into  verse  when  it  was  read  either  backward  or  for- 
ward, excepting  only  that  it  cursed  one  way,  and  blessed  the 


lyClOOglC 


62 

One  of  the  most  remarkable  palindromes  on  record  is  the 
following.  Its  distinguialiing  peculiarity  is  that  the  first  tetter 
of  each  successive  word  unites  to  spell  the  first  word  j  the 
seoond  letter  of  eact,  the  seoond  word ;  and  so  on  throughout ; 
and  the  same  will  be  found  precisely  true  on  reversal. 

SATOR  AREPO  TENET  OPERA  BOTAS. 

But  the  neatest  aud  prottiost  specimen  that  has  yet  appeared 
comes  from  a  highly  cultivated  bdj  who  was  attached  to  the 
court  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  Having  been  banished  from  the 
court  on  suspicion  of  too  great  familiarity  with  a  nobleman 
then  high  in  favor,  the  lady  adopted  this  device, — the  moon 
covered  hi/  a  cloud, — and  the  following  palindrome  for  a 
motto : — 

ABLATA  AT  ALBA. 
(Secluded  but  pure.) 

The  merit  of  this  kind  of  composition  was  never  in  any 
example  so  heightened  by  appropriateness  and  delicacy  of 
sentiment. 

Paschasius  composed  the  recurrent  epitaph  on  Henry  IV. : — 


]  dromes  was  printed 
indent  Greek  by  a 
modern  Greek  named  Ambrosiua,  vih.o  oalleA  it  lUi^^/iaxapxintidv. 
It  contains  455  lines,  every  one  of  which  is  a  literal  palin- 
drome.    A  few  are  selected  at  random,  as  examples ; — 


The  following  line  is  expressive  of  the  sentiments  of  a 
Roman  Catholic ;  read  baekwards,  of  those  of  a  Hugiienot ; — 

Patrum  diota  probe,  neo  saciis  bolligeraho. 
Balllgerabo  saoria,  neo  probe  diota  patrum. 


lyGoogle 


PALINDEOMES. 


63 


These  lines,  written  to  please  a  group  of  jouthM  folk, 
serve  to  show  that  our  English  tongue  is  as  capable  of  being 
twisted  iuto  nnconth  shapes  as  is  the  Latin,  if  any  one  wiU 
talce  the  trouble:— 


One' 


round  the  fire,  a  eoay  gronp  ■ 
ur  ouatom  old,  in  after-dino 


■  oiiit; 


,ller  folk  were  then 
lonpoliata  !  absorbed  the  lion's  share. 


Small-tiilk  it  was,  no  dc 

And  thaj,  the  J 

ConnndrHma,  riddles,  rebuses,  cross -queaauna,  yu 

Taxed  all  their  ingenuity,  till  Peter  the  prwoeio, 

Old  head  on  shoulders  juveuilft— oriad, ' 

Lefa  try  our  hand  at  Palindromes  '"    •' 
"Pray,  Peter,  what  are  Palindromes 
"  A  Paliadroms  'a  a  string  of  words  of  sense  or  meaning  void, 

Whioh  reads  hotb  ways  the  same:  and  here,  with  ,o»r  permission, 

ril  eite  aome  half  a  soore  of  samples,  laok.ng  all  preoision 

(But  held  together  by  loose  rhymes,  to  teat  my  definition):— 
"A  milhaop,  jilted  by  hia  laaa,  or  wandering  in  hi 

Might  murmur,  'SUf,  O  dairn-m 
"A  limner  by  photography  dead-beat  in  eompetiti 

Thus  gmmbled,  'Ifo,  it  ts  oppontd  ;  art  ««<  traa 
"A  nonaense-Ioving  nephew  might  his  soldier-uno1e  dun 

With'JVoic"'' 


"Agreed!    But  first,"  wa  as 
The  forward  imp  replied. 


iadoffilsr 


,ed  that  way,  might  anub 
babe,  rots  a  eugar-Uib' 

ed  HephaestJon 


"  Thy  speeh'e,  Alexandei, 

Great  A.  said,  -No,  it's  a  bar  of  gold,  a  bad  log  fo.  -  ■.■••■— 
"A  timid  creatnre,  fearing  rodents— mioe  and  auch  small  fry- 

'  Stop,  Sip^n,  Iitart  at  rail  in  airy  ipote/  might  erj. 
"A  simple  aoul,  whi 


"A  ate 


nest,  not  in  fu 


itrange  oi 


n  Canadian  parent  might  in  ei 

m,  'Ifo  sot  nor  OUawa  laar  at  Toronto, 

,y  dentist  might  deolare,  as  somethiuL 

Paget  sav.  an  Iriih  tooth,  >ir,  ™  a  wa^le  gap !'     True ! 

ly  student,  hating  sweets,  might  answer  with  elan, 

larla  f  no,  iiMdieval  slave,  I  demnnatrate  man  /' 

10  in  Hsture's  hitters  findeth  sweet  food  every  day, 

a  !  lill  Ipnll  up  ill  I  iahe  ™«,'  well  might  aay." 


lyClOOglC 


ffiquiioiiue. 


■Jo  si  Is  B|l|  si 

5i  JIf  ^^|b  ll-|f  s-S^lJ 


•^        S.       "  "  S,    " 

E    .      0    B    ?    [(    S   V     -      C   ...."-.    ID   -^    5>  .^    tp    B    S-  C   p^    ^. 

fft'^I-'fe'i'lis-iBslafi^af 


lyClOOglC 


EQUIVOQUE. 


65 


A  LOVE-LETTBK. 

The  reader,  after  perusing  it,  will  please  read  it  again,  com- 
menciDg  on  the  first  line,  tten  the  third  and  fifth,  and  so  on, 
reading  each  alternate  line  to  the  end. 

To  MisB  M . 

— The  great  love  I  have  hittierto  expressed  for  jou 

is  false  and  I  find  mj  indifference  towards  you 
—increases  daily.     Tlie  more  I  sea  of  jou,  the  m 


you  a] 


impt. 


—1  feel  myself  cTcry  way  disposed  and  dete 

to  hate  yon.     Beliera  me,  I  never  had  an  intention 
— to  offer  you  my  hand.     Our  last  onnyeraation  hns 

left  a  tedious  insipidity,  whioh  has  by  no  means 
— giren  me  the  most  exalted  idea  of  your  oharaetor. 

Your  temper  wuuM  make  mo  extremely  unhappy 
-and  were  we  nnited,  I  should  experienc*  nothing  but 

the  hatred  of  my  parents  added  to  the  anything  but 

to  bestow,  but  I  do  not  wish  you  to  imagine  it 
I  could  not 


It  your  ! 


IS  than  yourSBlf,  a 


will  di 


I  shall  eiQusa  you  taking  the  Iroul 
wer  this.     Your  letters  are  always  fliU  of 
lineneo,  and  you  have  not  a  shadow  of 
.d  good  sense.     Adieu !  ajiieu !  believe  me 
rse  to  you,  that  it  is  impossible  for  me  even 
pour  must  affeotionate  friend  and  humble 


INGENIODS   SUBTERFUGE. 

A  joung  lady  nowly  married,  being  obliged  to  show  to  her 
huaband  all  the  letters  she  wrote,  sent  the  following  to  an  inti- 
mate friend.  The  key  is,  to  read  the  first  and  then  every 
alternate  line  only. 


mto  your  ftiendly  bosoi 
msatlons  which  swell 


lyGoogle 


EQUIVOQUE. 

nith  thB  liveliest 

— ffiJBlD 

ghearu     I  tell  jou 

my  dear 

—I  have 

BOW  been 

married  seven  weeUa 

and 

never  have  fonnd 

Ihe  leaat  reason  to 

r-repeut 

he  day  tt 

at  joined  us.    My  h 

aband  ia 

boll)  Id 

person  an 

d  manners  ftir  fi-um  resemblin 

—ugly,  cross,  old,  d 

isagreeable,  and  jealous 

nk  b;  confining  to  e 

—a  wife, 

It  is  hia  m 

bosom 

nend  and 

confidant,  and  not  a 

-plajth 

ng,  or  men 

lal  slave,  the  woman 

chosen 

to  be  his 

ompanion.     Keith  et 

party 

-^he  Bar 

should  a 

ways  obey  implicidy 

B  cheerful,  vonarable,  and  plcasartt  old  lady, 
—Uvea  in  the  house  with  us{  she  is  the  de- 
light of  both  young  and  old;  aho  is  ci- 
— vil  to  all  the  neighborhood  round. 


-lam 

onvincod  my  husband 

ovea  nothing 

than 

me;  he  fiatfers 

-than 

glass 

and  hia  intoxication 

(fere 

f  bis  love) 

ae  bluah  for  the 

nworthineaa 

of  its 

objeot. 

and  wish  I  eould 

he  more  dese 

-of  the 

hose  name  I  bea 

.     To 

aaj  all  in  on 

and  to 

the  whole— my  former 

gallant  lover 

uigent  hnaband 

nd  I  might  have 

had 

aprin 

ce  with 

ut  the  felicity  I 

find  in 

-him. 

Adieu 

mav  you  be  ble 

St  as  I  am  un 

ablet 

wish  that  I  could  be  m 

-happy 

DOUBLE-FACED   CREED. 

The  following  cross-reading  from  a  history  of  Popery,  pub- 
lished in  1679,  and  formerly  called  in  New  England  The 
Jesuiu'  Creed,  will  suit  either  Catholic  or  Protestant  accord- 
ingly as  the  lines  are  read  downward  in  single  columns  or 
across  the  double  c 


lyClOOglC 


Qnie  docct  Anglioami, 
Vidantur  mihi  yana. 
Turn  pleba  eat  fottunala, 


Fopulua  tnm  beatur 
AbIdI  do  me  a  meruit 
Missam  qui  daseniit 

I  hold  ftir  faith 
■What  Rome's  ohuroh  eaill 
Where  the  king  is  bead 
Tlie  fiock'a  misled, 
■Where  the  altar's  drest 
The  people's  blest. 


Huoo  morem  qui  non  oapit, 
Catholicus  est  et  sopit. 

What  BDe'=-'"l'8  church  allowe, 


■ff  hoiFo  table's  bread  and  wine, 
■Who  their  oommuniou  fiioB, 
Ib  Catholio  and  wise. 


EEVOLUTIONAUY  VERSES. 

The  author  of  the  followiag  KeToliitionary  double  entendre, 
which  originally  appeared  in  a  Philadelphia  newspaper,  ia  un- 
known. It  may  be  read  in  three  different  ways, — 1st.  Let  the 
whole  be  read  iu  the  order  in  which  it  is  written ;  2d.  Then 
the  lines  downward  on  the  loft  of  each  comma  in  every  line; 
and  3d.  In  the  same  manner  on  the  right  of  each  comma.  By 
the  first  reading  it  will  bo  observed  that  the  Revolutionary  cause 
is  condemned,  and  by  the  othera,  it  is  encouraged  and  lauded  ^— 

nark!  hark!  the  trampet  sounds,   fha  din  of  war's  alarms, 

O'ar  seas  and  solid  grounds,   doth  call  us  all  M  armai 

Who  for  King  George  dolh  stand,   their  honors  soon  ahnll  sMnej 

Their  ruin  is  at  hand,  who  with  the  Oongraaa  join. 

The  acts  of  Parliamonl,  in  them  I  much  delight, 

I  Late  their  cursed  intent,  who  for  the  Congreaa  fight, 

The  Tories  of  the  day,   thej  are  my  daily  toosl, 

Thay  soon  will  sneak  away,   who  Iniiepeodenea  boast; 

Who  non-res istanca  hold,   they  have  my  hand  and  heart. 

May  they  for  slaves  be  aold,   who  act  a  Whiggish  part; 

On  Mansllold,  North,  and  Cute,  may  daily  blessings  pour. 


a,  blocl:  or  cord,  to  Qeniral  Washington 


lyGoogle 


THE   HOUSES   OF   STTJABT  AND 

I  love  with  idl  my  heart  The  Toi 

The  HanoTerian  part  Most  hai 

And  for  that  aettlement  I  oTcr  b 

My  oonsoienoe  gives  Bonsent  To  be  oi 

Most  rightoous  is  the  cause  To  fight 

To  fight  for  Georga'a  laws  Will  En, 

It  is  my  mind  and  heart  In  this  i 
Though  nana  will  lake  my  part 


THE  MEW  EEOIME. 

The  following  equivoque  was  addressed  to  a,  republican  at 
the  commencement  of  the  French  Revolution,  in  reply  to  the 
queation,  "  What  do  you  think  of  the  new  constitution  ?" 


Je  renonoa  dans  I'lmB 

Au  rSgime  anoien 

Comma  6preuTa  da  ma  foi 

Je  crois  la  loi  no 

Je  crois  eeUe  qn'ou  blime 

Dieu  vous  donne  la  pais 

Messieurs  Ics  dfn 

Noblossa  de30l6e 

Au  diabie  allei-v 

Qu'iloonfonde  JLjamaia 

Tous  les  Aristoer 

Messieurs  de  rAesambUe 

Out  e»x  souls  le 

The  newly  majle  law 

'Tis  my  wish  to  e 

From  my  soul  I  abhor 

The  ancient  rogio 

My  faith  to  prove  good, 

I  maintain  the  na 

I  maintain  the  old  code 

Is  opposed  to  all 

May  God  give  you  peace, 

McsBiBurs  Domoe 

Forsaken  Noblesse, 

To  the  devil  go  b 

May  He  over  oonfound 

All  the  Aristocra 

The  AsEemblj  all  round  Are  the  sole  man  of  senae. 

FATAL   DOUBLE    MEANING. 

Count  Valavoir,  a  general  in  the  French  service  under  Tu- 
renne,  while  encamped  before  the  enemy,  attempted  one  night 
to  pass  a  sentinel.  The  sentinel  challenged  him,  and  the 
count  answered  "  Vur-ln-voir,"  which  literally  signifies  "  Go  and 
see."  The  soldier,  who  took  the  words  in  this  sense,  indig- 
nantly repeated  the  challenge,  and  waa  answered  in  the  same 
manner,  when  he  fired;  and  the  unfortunate  Count  fell  dead 
upon  the  spot, — a  victim  to  the  whimsicality  of  his  surname. 


lyClOOglC 


EQUIVOQUE.  "^ 

A  TRIPLE   PLATFORM. 

Among  tte  memorials  of  the  sectional  conflict  of  1861-5,  is 
aB  American  platform  arranged  to  suit  all  parties.  The  first 
column  is  tlio  Seces^n;  the  second,  the  ^Wzl..«i  platform ; 
and  the  wholo,  i-ead  tosether,  is  the  Democratic  p'"-''- 


Seces 


We  fight 
The  Confedotaoy 
We  lovB 
Tho  rebellioQ    Is  treaaon 
Wc  glory  in     A  Free  Press 


The  Old  Uni 
■     The  Constitu 


Frae  spaecli 


7e  figM  n. 


.     Will  not  be 


We  want  The  TInir>n  as  it  wa 

reign  interrention  Is  played  ont 

We  oliBrish  The  old  flue 

Che  aturs  and  hara  Ib  a  flaunting  lie 

Southern  chivalry  Ib  hateful 

Death  to  Jeff  Davis 

Abe  Lineoln  Isn't  the  Govemmf 

Down  with  Mobil 

Law  and  order  Shall 


iph. 


LOYALTY,    OB   JACOBINISM? 

This  piece  of  amphibology  was  ci«iulated  among  the  United 
Irishmen,  previous  to  the  Rebellion  of  1798.  First,  read  the 
liues  as  they  stand,  then  according  to  the  numerals  prefixed  i- 

1.  I  love  mv  oountry— but  the  king, 


3.  / 


El  all  n 


to  bis  odioi 


reign, 


L  That  plague  of  prioceB,  Thomas  Paine; 

6.  The  royal  banners  are  diaplayed, 

7.  And  may  suooess  the  standard  aid 
6.  Defeat  and  ruin  seise  the  cause 

8.  Of  France  her  liberty  and  laws. 


lyClOOglC 


70  EQUIVOQUE. 

NON    COMMITTAL. 

NEAT   EVASION. 

Bishop  Bgerfcon,  of  Durham,  avoided  three  impertinent 
questions  by  replying  as  follows : — 

1.  What  inheritanee  he  received  from  his  father  f 

"  Not  ao  mneh  as  he  eipeoted." 

2.  What  was  his  ladj's  fortune? 

"  Less  than  was  reported." 

3.  What  una  the  value  of  his  living  of  Eoaa? 

"  Mora  than  he  made  of  it." 

A  PATRIOTIC   TOAST. 

Most  readers  will  rememher  the  story  of  a  non-committal 
editor  who,  during  the  Presidential  canvass  of  1872,  desiring  to 
propitiate  subscribers  of  both   parties,  hoisted   the  ticket  of 

"  Gr and n"  at  the  top  of  his  column,  thus  giving 

those  who  took  the  paper  their  choice  of  interpretations  be- 
tween "Grant  and  Wilson"  and  "Greeley  and  Brown."  A 
story  turning  on  the  same  style  of  point — and  probably  quitfl 
as  apocryphal — though  the  author  labels  it  "higtorique" — is 
told  of  an  army  officers'  mess  in  France.  A  brother-soldier 
from  a  neighboring  detachment  having  come  in,  and  a  cham- 
peaoise  having  been  uncorked  in  his  honor,  "G-entlemen," 
said  the  guest,  raising  his  glass,  "I  am  about  to  propose  a 
toast  at  once  patriotic  and  politick."  A  chorus  of  hasty 
oja^ulations  and  of  murmurs  at  once  greeted  him.  "Yes, 
gentlemen,"  coolly  proceeded  the  orator,  "  I  drink  to  a  thin^ 
which — an  object  that — Bah !  I  will  out  with  it  at  once.  It 
begins  with  an  R  and  ends  with  an  e." 

"  Capital  1"  whispers  a  young  lieutenant  of  Bordeaux  pro- 
motion. "He  proposes  the  Bipvhlique,  without  offending  the 
o]d  fogies  by  saying  the  word," 

"  Nonsense  1  He  means  the  Rad'icale,"  replies  the  other, 
an  old  Captaiu  Caasel. 

"Upon  my  word,"  says  a  third,  as  he  lifts  his  glass,  "our 
friend  must  mean  la  Royauti." 


lyClOOglC 


EQlilVOQUE- 


71 


"I  see!"  ones  a  one-legged  yeteraii  of  Fr(«oliweiler ;  "we 
drink  to  la  Revanclm." 

Iq  fact  the  whole  party  drank  the  toast  heartily,  eaeh  in- 
terpreting it  to  his  liking. 

In  the  hands  ot  a  Swift,  even  so  trivial  an  instance  might 
be  made  to  point  a  moral  on  the  facility  with  which,  alike  in 
theology  and  politics— from  Athanaeian  creed  to  Cincinnati 
or  Philadelphia  platform— men  comfortably  interpret  to  their 
own  diveree  likings  some  doctrine  that  "begins  with  an  R 
and  ends  with  an  e,"  and  swallow  it  with  great  nnanjmitj  and 
enthusiasm. 

THE  HANDWRITING   ON   THE   WALL. 

During  the  war  of  the  Rebellion,  a  merchant  of  Milwaukee, 
who  is  an  excellent  hand  at  sketching,  drew  most  admirably 
on  the  wall  of  his  store  a  negro's  head,  and  underneath  it 
wrote,  in  a  manner  worthy  of  the  Delphic  oracle,  "  Dis-Union 
for  eber."  Whether  tho  sentence  meant  loyalty  to  the  Union 
or  not,  was  the  puzzling  question  which  the  gentleman  him- 
self nJver  answered,  invariably  stating  to  (he  inquirers,  "Bead 
it  for  yourselves,' gentlemen."  So  from  that  day  to  this,  as 
the  saying  goes,  "no  one  knows  how  dat  darkey  stood  on  de 
war  question." 

Another  question  is  puzaling  the  young  ladies  who  attend 
a  Western  Female  College.  It  seems  that  one  of  them  dis- 
covered that  some  person  had  written  on  the  outer  wall  of  the 
college,  "  Young  women  should  set  good  examples;  for  young 
men  viill  follow  them."  The  question  that  is  now  perplexing 
the  heads  of  several  of  the  young  Mies  of  the  college  is, 
whether  tho  writer  meant  what  he  or  she  (the  handwriting  was 
rather  mascnline)  wrote,  in  a  moral  sense  or  in  an  ironical  one. 

HOW    PRENOH    ACTKKSSEB   AVOID   GIVING   THEIR  AGE. 

A  servant  robhed  Mile.  Mars  of  her  diamonds  one  evening 
while  she  was  at  the  theatre.  Arrested,  he  was  put  upon 
trial  and  witnesses  were  summoned  to  bear  testimony  to  his 
guilt.     Among  these  was  Mile.  Mars.     She  was  greatly  an- 


lyClOOglC 


72  Eqoivoqde. 

noyed  at  this,  as,  according  to  the  rules  of  French  practice, 
the  witness,  after  being  sworn,  gives  his  age.  Now  the  age 
of  Mile.  Mara  was  an  impenetrable  mystery,  for  it  was  a 
theme  she  never  alliided  to,  and  she  possessed  the  art  of 
arresting  time's  flight,  or  at  least  of  repairing  its  ravages  so 
effectually  that  her  fece  never  revealed  acquaintance  with 
more  than  twenty  years.  She  was  for  some  xiays  evidently 
depressed;  then,  all  at  once,  her  spirits  rose  as  buoyant  as 
ever.  This  puzzled  the  court— for  people  in  her  eminent 
position  always  have  a  court;  parasites  are  plenty  in  Paris— 
they  did  not  know  whether  she  had  determined  frankly  to 
confess  her  age,  or  whether  she  had  hit  upon  some  means  of 
eluding  this  thorny  point  of  practice. 

The  day  of  trial  came,  and  she  was  at  her  place.  The 
court-room  was  filled,  and  when  she  was  put  in  the  witness- 
box  every  ear  was  bent  towaids  her  to  ca,tch  the  ago  she  would 
give  as  her  own.  "Your  name?"  said  the  presiding  judge. 
"Anne  Pranooise  Hippolyte  Mars."  "What  is  your  profes- 
sionf"  "An  actress  of  the  French  Comedy."  "What  is 
your  age?"  " ty  years."  "What?"  inquired  the  pre- 
siding judge,  leaning  forward.  "  I  have  just  told  your  honor !" 
replied  the  actress,  giving  one  of  those  irresistible  smiles  which 
won  the  most  hostile  pit.  The  judge  smiled  in  turn,  and 
when  he  asked,  as  ho  did  immediately,  "  Where  do  you  live  ?" 
hearty  applause  long  prevented  Mile.  Mars  from  replying. 

Mile.  Cioo  was  summoned  before  a  court  to  bear  witness  in 
favor  of  some  cosmetic  assailed  as  a  poison    by  victims  and 

"  then-  physicians.  All  the  youngest  actresses  of  Paris  were 
there,  and  thej  reckoned  upon  a  good  deal  of  merriment  and 
profit  when  Mile.  Gico  came  to  disclose  her  age.  She  was 
called  to  the  stand — sworn— gave  her  name  and  profession. 
When  the  judge  said  "How  old  are  you?"  she  quitted  the 
stand,  went  up  to  the  bench,  stood  on  tip-toe,  and  whispered 

in  the  judge's  ear  the  malicious  mystery.     The  bench  smiled, 

and  kept  her  secret. 


lyGoogle 


^i)P  iSmto. 

A  CENTO  primarily  signifies  a  cloai  made  of  patches, 
poetry  it  denotes  a  work  whoily  c 
promiscuously  taken  from  other  authors  and  d 
form  or  order,  so  as  to  compose  a  new  work  and  a  i 
iiig.  According  to  the  rules  laid  down  by  Auaonius,  the  author 
of  the  celebrated  Nuptial  Cento,  the  pieces  may  be  taken  from 
the  same  poet,  or  from  several ;  and  the  verses  may  be  either 
taken  entire,  or  divided  into  two,  one  half  to  be  connected  with 
another  half  taken  elsewhere;  but  two  verses  are  never  to  be 
taken  together. 

The  Empress  Eudoxia  wrote  the  life  of  Jesus  Christ  in  centos 
taken  from  Homer.  Proba  Falconia,  and,  long  after  him, 
Alexander  Eoss,  both  composed  a  life  of  the  Saviour,  in  the 
same  manner,  from  Virgil.  The  title  of  Koss'  work,  which 
was  republished  in  1769,  was  VtrgiUus  Evangelizans,  sive  his- 
toria  Domini  et  Salvatoris  nostri  Jesu  Christi  Yirgilianis 
verbis  et  versibus  descripta. 

Subjoined  are  some  modern  specimens  of  this  literary  con- 
fectionery, called  in  modern  parlance 

MOSAIC   POETEY. 
I  only  inew  she  came  aod  went  Lo,^U. 

Like  troutlets  in  a  pool ;  H'Md. 

Sho  was  a  phantom  of  delight,  Wordaviorth. 

And  I  was  likB  a  fool.  EaBtniaa. 


"  Out  of  those  lips  unshorn." 
She  shook  her  ringlets  round  her  head 

And  laughed  in  merry  aoorn. 
Ring  out,  wild  hella,  to  the  wild  sky ! 


ir  them 


twelve  at  night  by  the  eaetle  clock. 


"My  eyes  are 

How  bhall  I  live 

All  through  a 


Lo,>gfMom. 
Sloddard. 

Alice  Cory, 

Coleridge, 
Alice  Ciiry. 
CampheU- 
Ii-7.yord  Taylry 

T.  S.  Pa-ry 


lyClOOglC 


She  bleeaed  me  nith  her  hand;  Bayi,  . 

We  strajed  together,  deeply  blest,  Mrs.  Ed 

Into  the  Drenming  Lsjid.  Comwal 


Bayard  Tayhy. 
Brmhford. 


I  clasped  it  on  her  sneet  aold  band, 
The  preoious  golden  link  ; 

I  calmed  hsr  fears,  and  she  was  nalm, 
"Drink,  protty  creature,  drinlt  1" 

And  so  I  won  my  Genevieve, 

And  walked  in  Para<iise  ; 
Iha  fairest  thing  that  ever  grew 

Atwe«n  zne  and  the  skies. 


Col 

ndg 

Wo 

dsv^rlh 

Col 

■ridge 

Iferxfg. 

rl-mo 

0>3 

ood. 

Breathes  thei'e  a  man  with 
Wbo  netor  to  himself  hath 

Shoot  folly  as  it  flies? 
Ah,  more  than  tettrs  of  bio 
Are  in  that  word  farewell, 

'TiB  folly  to  be  wise. 

oul  BO  dea 
said, 

d  oan  tell, 

And  what  is  Briendaliip  hn 
That  barns  on  Etna's  brea 

t  of  flame? 

Sweet  is  tho  ship  that's  under  beuI 
To  where  yon  taper  points  the  vale 
With  hospitable  ray. 

Drink  to  me  only  with  thine  eyes 
Through  cloudless  olimes  and  starry  ekiea, 

My  native  land,  good-night. 
Adieu,  adien,  my  native  shore; 
'Tis  Groeeo,  but  living  Greece  no  mora. 

Whatever  is  is  right. 


lyClOOglC 


Tha  cooks  and  hollow 

While  yet  in  early  Or. 

I'm  plDased,  and 


In  soopWed  pall  oomo  aweeping  by, 
0,  thoa,  the  nymph  wilh  plaoid  eye. 

By  Philip's  warlike  son  ; 
And  on  the  light  f^itsiatio  toe 
Thus  hand-in-hand  through  life  we'll  go; 

Good-nigiit  to  Marmion, 

LIFE. 


'a  life  may  aeem  a  tragedy, 
peak  whan  mighty  griefs  art 
it  shallow  whence  they  oome 


not  often 
eiuol  31 


axhin. 


-Live  woll,  how  long  or,  short  permit,  to  In 
-They  who  forgive^most,  ahal!  be  most  forg 
-Sin  may  be  clasped  so  olosB  wo  cannot  see 
-Vile  iotaroonrse  where  virtue  has  not  plaoi 
I  eaoh  paesioi 


endulun 


-Thon 
.—Her  EonsuBl 


betwi 


mile  and  f^ 


9S  let  faithless  pleaj 


38.— The  paths  of  glory  lead  but  to  the  gra 


lyClOOglC 


TUE   CEKTO. 


29 

—What 

8  oJl  the 
ay  to  bli 

on?     'Tis 
e  to  the  b 

gaudy  glit 
3  liflS  not 

glorious  cheat, 
ave  and  great. 

a  beds  of  down. 

31 

32 

— Thev 

33 
B4 

—How 
-That 

mim  live 

TO,  not  ye 
twice  wh 

lives  th 

tions  tell; 
e  first  life  wel 

35 
36 

-MakB 
—Who 

then,  while  jet  ye 
n  ChriBliana  norshi 

nay,  you 
,  yet  no 

r  6od  your  fr 
oomprehond. 

end, 

37 

—The 
—For, 

ive  we  h 

given  gu 

JMt 

8.  Sir-V 

6Ete 

Ealeigli 

9.  long 

Pope.   4.  P 
6,  Milton. 

rioi'.    5.  S 
X6.Bany 

swell.   6.  SpenBcr.   V. 

Daniel, 
ervllli!' 

3.  Cowpcr,   27.  Sir  Walter  Davenant    2S.Gray.    2S.V 
ien.    ,32.  rrancts  Quarlf  s.     33.  Watklns.    34.  HcnicI 


ition  forn 


CENTO   PROM   POPE. 


mighty  maio  I  but  not  without  a  plan. 
Ask  of  the  learnod  the  way  ?     The  learned  a 

The  proper  study  of  manMnd  is  man. 
A  little  learning  is  a  dangerous  thing ; 

Some  have  at  first  for  wits,  then  poeta  pas, 
See  from  each  eliroe  the  learned  their  inoensi 

For  rUiug  merit  will  buoy  up  at  last. 
Tell  (for  you  can)  what  is  it  to  be  wIbb.- 

Virtue  alone  is  happiness  below ;  • 

Honor  and  shame  from  no  oondition  rise, 

And  all  our  knowledge  is  ourselvM  to  kno 
Who  shall  decide  when  doctors  disagree  ? 


BIBLICAL  OENTO. 
;  to  the  Mighty  One, 
ingin  thy  grief; 
;  to  the  Holy  One, 


lyClOOglC 


THE    CKNTO. 


Cling  to  the  QraoiouB  One, 

Cling  in  ay  pain; 
Cling  to  the  Ifaitiiful  One, 

Hb  will  sHStwn. 
Clinj  to.  thB  Living  One, 

Cling  it,  tbj  woe; 
Cling  to  the  Loving  One, 

Through  all  below : 
Cling  to  the  Parioning  One, 

He  speaketh  peace ; 
Cling  to  the  Healing  One, 

Angulsli  shall  oeaae. 
Cling  to  the  Bleeding  One, 

Cling  to  His  aide; 
Cling  to  the  Risen  One, 

In  Him  abide; 
Cling  to  the  Coining  One, 

Hope  shall  arise; 
Cling  to  Ihe  Eeigning  One, 

Joy  lights  thine  ayea. 


THE   RETURN    OP   ISRAEL. 
I  will  surely  gather  the  remnant  of  larnal.— M 
And  the  Temple  again  shall  be  built, 

And  filled  as  it  was  of  yore ; 
And  the  burden  be  lift  from  the  heart  of  tl 

And  the  nations  all  adore; 
Prayers  to  the  throne  of  Heaven, 

Morning  and  eve  shall  rise. 
Arid  unto  and  not  of  tbe  Liiinb 
Shall  be  the  aacrifioe.— Festus. 
In  many  Btvango  and  Qentile  lands  &' 


Ps.  liiivi-  7. 
1  John  iv.  16. 
Rom.  viil.  B8,  Si 


Till  faintod  like  a  weary  flock ; 

Isa.  !i.  20. 

But  Heaven  will  soon  Bilhdraw  the  draught. 

Isa.  IL  22. 

And  give  them  waters  from  the  rook. 

Esod.  xvii.  e. 

What  though  their  bodies,  as  the  ground. 

Isa.  li.  23. 

Th'  Aasyrlan  long  baa  trodden  o'er  ! 

Isa,  lii.  4- 

Zion,  a  captive  daughlor  bound, 

■  Isa.  lii.  2. 

Sboll  rise  to  know  her  wrong  no  more. 

1 


lyGoogle 


The  vail  is  passing  from  her  eyes,  3  Cor.  iii.  18. 

The  King  of  Nations  she  shall  see;  Zech.  xIt.  9. 

Judea!  frum  the  dust  arise!  Isa.  Iii.  3. 

Thj  ransomed  sous  return  to  (hael  Jar.  issi.  17. 

How  gorgeous  shall  thy  hind  appear,  Isa,  lir.  12. 

WLeo,  like  the  jewels  of  a  bifida,  Isa.  Jili.t.  13, 

Thy  broken  bands,  all  gathered  there,  Zeeh.  xi.  It. 

Shall  clotLa  thy  hUU  on  every  side!  Isa.  ilii.  la 

Wkea  on  tby  mount,  as  prophets  tauglit,  Isa.  saiv.  23. 

Shall  shina  tha  throne  of  David's  Son;  Eiek.  xisvii.  31 

The  Gospel's  lal^est  triumphs  brought  Micah  iv.  2. 

Where  £r£t  its  glorious  course  begun.  Luke  xziv.  1). 

Gentiles  and  Kings,  who  thee  oppressed,  Isa.  li.  14. 

Shall  t«  ttty  gates  with  priuse  repair;  Isa.  Ix.  11. 

A  fold  of  flocks  shall  Sharon  rest,  Isa.  Ixv.  10. 

And  clustared  fruita  its  vineyard  bear.  Joel  ii.  22. 

Then  shall  an  Eden  morn  Ulume  Isa.  li.  3. 


The  Lord  his  holy  arm  makes  bare; 

Zion !  thy  cheerful  songs  employ ! 
Thy  robes  of  bridal  beauty  wear. 

And  shout,  ya  ransomed  raae,  for  joj 


"a  treatise  of  wine." 
The  following  speciraen  of  macaronic  verso,  from  the  com- 
moDplaee  book  of  Richard  Hillea,  who  died  ia  15-35,  is  probably 
the  best  of  its  kind  exta,Dt.  The  scriptural  allusions  and  the 
large  interniisturo  of  liatin  evidently  point  to  the  refectorj  of 
Bome  genial  monastery  as  its  source  : — 

The  best  tree  if  jo  lake  intent, 
Inter  ligna  fructifcra, 


lyClOOglC 


mn 

Luke  aiuth  in  h 

At 

lOr  ftuotu  noaoitu 

hi. 

ina  beareth  wina 

H 

oo  aliia  prfflponit 

rh« 

rst  that  planted 

Manet  in  ccell  gauc 

Qii 

ame  was  «oa,  ai 

flod  gave  nnto  him  knowledga  and 

First  of  the  grapa  nine  for  to  get. 
Propter  magna  m  jsteria, 

The  lirst  miracle  that  Jobus  did, 

Erat  in  vino  ruboo, 
In  Cana  of  Galilee  it  betide, 


Li)ce  as  tlio  rose  exceedotb  all  flowen. 

Inter  cuncta  florigera, 
So  dolli  nine  a1!  other  lii^uore. 


By  all  « 

Qute  snnt  ralionaoueB, 
Tliat  good  wine  should  be  best 

Inter  potua  potabiies. 

Wine  drinkers  all,  with  great  hi 
Semper  laudato  Dnminum, 

The  which  aendeth  the  good  liq 
Proplsr  eal  litem  hominum. 


;e  should  think 

uld  be  beat  of  dl  drink 


lyClOOglC 


MACARONrC   VERSE. 


And  bring  Ihei 

u  aome  when  they  go  hena 

Ubi  non  Eiti 
THE   SUITOB 

WITH    NINE 

rONGlTE 

T.  ™  X.y^ 

^.p«<.»^. 

Now  that 

his  fiokle  heart  i 

Me  s.>npe 

And  neve 

ay? 

Hensch'il 

loben,  Du  Terlan 

sst  in  li 

When  jou 

demand  bo  atric 

aseaL 

N'eEt-eep 

as  aasei  que  je  t' 

Without  r 

emaining  still  th 

same? 

eij  daaro 

m  geeft  u  licfde  n 

et 

If  Others 

may  not  have  a  treat. 

M«y  larg 

ea  mi  ooroion. 

And  fifty 

holds  as  well  as 

elF  acquEi  bueo  ohe 

Inmreso 

Imloboti 

aeh  atta  bi. 

I'm  willin 

g  nuite  to  set  jo 

frea: 

Be  yoa  oo 

ntent  with  half  a 

ytime. 

As  half  in  English  is  raj  t 

HAGINN'S   alternations— r HORACE,   EPODE  IL 

Blest  man,  who  far  from  busy  hum, 

Ut  priaea  gens  mortal! urn, 

Whiatlea  his  team  nlield  with  glee 

Solatus  omni  fenore: 

He  lives  in  penoe,  from  battlea  frea, 

Hbo  horret  iralum  mare ; 

A'd  ahaas  the  forum,  and  the  gay 

Therefore  to  vines  of  purple  gloss 
Altas  maritat  populoa, 
Or  pruning  ofi'  the  boughs  unfit 
Eelioiores  inserit. 


Alphins  the  usurer,  babbled  tl 


lyClOOglC 


Come,  joound  friends,  a  bottle  tring, 

And  push  arouod  tha  jorum; 
We'll  talk  and  liiugh,  and  qaaff  and  sii 


A  moping  elf  I  o^n't  endnce 
While  I  have  ready  rhino  i 

And  all  life's  pleoauies  ceatre  atill 
In  veaere  aa  vino. 

Be  merry  then,  my  friends,  Ipray, 

Por  it  is  plaaeant,  aa  they  say, 

Daaipare  in  loco. 
He  tliat  loveE  not  a  young  lasa 

la  suie  an  arrant  stultus, 
And  he  that  nlU  not  tnJie  a  glaaa 

Desarras  to  ba  Eepultua. 
Pleasure,  mnsio,  Ioto  and  wine 

Res  ralde  aunt  juoundse. 
And  pretty  maidena  look  divine. 

Provided  ut  aunt  mnndia. 


Qui  latra 

Who  mope! 

Drinks  It 

Give  me  tli. 

Qui  flnit 
The  carea  o 

Whose  m 


1  ever  eats  by  rule, 
n  that's  always  free, 


Death  will  turn  us  »on  from  hence, 

Vigerrimas  ad  sedes; 
And  all  our  lands  and  all  our  pence 

Ditabunt  tunc  heredes. 


lyGoogle 


MAOAEONIC   VEE8E. 


FLY-LEAF   SCRIBBLING!. 

And  bear  it  well  in  inlnd. 
Ad  me,  Johannem  Risbrum, 

Quern  si  ego  perdam. 
And  bj  you  it  shall  be  found, 

Kadde  miti  iterum, 
Yonr  fame  I  then  will  Eonnd. 

Sed  si  mihi  redeas, 
Then  Messed  thou  ahalt  be, 

Bt  ago  tihi  gratis 
Whenever  I  thee  see. 


THE  OAT  AND  THE   RATS. 

Felia  sedit  by  a  hole, 
IntentuB  ho,  cum  omni  soul, 

Preudera  rats 
Mioe  oucurrerunt  trans  the  floor. 
In  numero  duo,  Irea,  or  more — 

Obliti  eats. 


Mioe  continued  all  ludere, 
Intenti  they  in  ludum  rere, 

Gaudanter. 
Tunc  rushed  the  fclis  into  them, 
Et  tore  tbem  omnos  limb  from  lim 

Violant«ii 


Et  aurem  prEebe  mihi. 

Sit  hoe  sutiB — "Terbum  sat," 
Avoid  a  whopping  big  tom-oa 


lyGoogle 


MACARONIC    VEESE. 


POLYGLOT  INSORIPTION. 


The  foUowitig  advertisement  in  five  languages,  is  inscribed 
)!i  tke  window  of  a  public  house  in  Germany : — 
In  quosta  oaea  trovarefa 
Toutcs  lea  ohoaoe  que  voue  souhaites; 


Hea 


\e  and  ham' 


I   ADDRESS   TO   A   IRIEND, 

Written  by  a  Gennan  gentleman  on.  the  termination  of  a  very 
but  brief  acquaintance. 

I  often  wished  I  had  a  friend, 
Dem  iab  micb  anvertrauea  kiinnC, 
A  Mend  m  whom  I  oouM  confide, 
Der  mit  mir  theilte  Fraud  nnd  Leid ; 
Had  I  the  riohea  of  Girard— 
leli  theilte  mit  ihm  Haus  und  Haerd; 


Der  Henker  hoV  fur  mloh  den  ganien  Betb 

Could  I  pnrohaae  the  world  to  live  in  it  alo 

loh  gab'  dafiir  nicht  erne  hohle  Boho'; 

I  thought  one  time  in  jou  I'd  find  that  fri 

Und  ghiuhte  achon  meiu  Sehnen  hUt  oiii  E 

Alaa!  yoor  friendahip  laaf^d  but  in  Bight, 

Dooh  roeine  greniet  an  die  Ewigkeit. 

AM   RHEIN. 

Commeo'estboau!  wie  achijn  !  ehebellol 

He  who  quaffs  thy  Luft  nod  Woin, 

Morbleu  !    ia  a  lueiy  fellow. 

How  I  loTe  thy  rushing  Btreama, 

arores  of  ash  and  biroh  and  hsiel. 

From  Sohaifhauaen'a  rainbow  beams 

JuBqu'a  I'fcho  d'Oberwaael ! 

Oh,  qna  j'aime  thy  Brliehen  whan 
The  orammed  Dampfschiff  gajly  pi 


lyGoogle 


MACAKONIC   VERSE. 

Love  the  bronzed  pipes  of  thj  men, 
And  the  brooMd  ohesks  of  thy  laaaea ! 

Oh,  que  j'dime  Ihe  "  oui,"  the 
Prom  thy  niotloj  crow  da  tb 

Witt  the  universal  "ja,' 
And  the  allgemeine  "  bo"  I 

"bah," 
at  floB, 

HE  DEATH   OP  THE   8EA 

SEEPENT 

Arrnn  Tinimqae  eano,  qui  first  in  Monongsliela 

Tamally  squampushed  the  sarpent,  mittens  horrentia  tella. 

Musa,  look  sharp  with  your  Banjo  I     I  guess  to  relate  this  event,  I 

ShaU  need  all  the  aid  you  oan  give;  so  nuno  aspirate  oanenti. 

Mighty  eliok  nero  the  veBsela  progressing,  Jaetata  per  wquora  ventis. 

But  the  brow  of  the  skipper  was  Bad,  cum  solieitudine  mentU; 

For  whales  had  been  scarce  in  those  ports,  and  the  'ekipper,  so  long  a 

he'd  known  her, 
Ke'et  had  gathered  leaa  oU  in  a  oniise  lo  gladden  the  heart  of  her  owner 
"Darn  the  whales,"  cries  the  skipper  at  length,  "with  a  telesoope  fort 

videbo 
Ant  pisoes,  aut  terras."     While  speaking,  just  two  or  three  points  on  th 

He   saw   ooming   towards   them   as   fast  as  though  to  a  oombat  'twoul 

tempt  'em, 
A  raonstrum  hotrendum  informe  (qui  lumea  was  shortly  ademptum). 
On  the  taffrail  up  jumps  in  a  hurry,  dus  fortis,  and  aeiaing  a  trumpet. 
Blows  a  blast  that  would  waken  the  dead,  mare  turbat  et  aera  rnmpit — 
"Tumble  up  all  you  lubbers,"   he  ories,  "tumble  up,  for  careering  b( 

Is  the  real  old  sea  sarpent  himaelf,  oristia  macnliaque  deoorus." 

"  Consam  it,"  cried  one  of  the  sailors,  "if  o'er  wsproToke  him  he'll  kill  ni 

He'll  certainly  chaw  up  boa  morsu,  et  longia,  implexibas  illos." 

Lond  laughs  the  bold  skipper,  and  quick  premit  alto  oorde  dolorem  ; 

(IE  he  doea  feel  like  running,  he  knows  it  won't  do  to  betray  it  before  'em] 

"  0  Boeii",  inquit.     "  I'm  aardn  you're  not  the  fellers  to  funk,  or 

Shrink  from  the  durem  eertamen,  whose  fathera  fit  bravely  at  Bunker 

You,  who  have  waged  with  ihe  bears,  and  the  buffalo,  prtelia  dura, 

Down  to  the  freshets,  and  lioka  of  our  own  free  enlightened  Missoucer; 

¥ou  could  whip  your  own  weight,  oatulns  stevis  sine  telo. 

Set  your  eyes  skinned  in  a  twinkling,  et  ponite  tela  pbfflsello  I" 

Talia  voce  refert,  ouriaque  ingentibus  tcger, 

Marshals  his  onte  little  band,  now  panting  their  foes  to  beleaguer 

Swiftly  thoy  lower  the  boats,  and  swiftly  each  man  at  the  oar  is, 

Eseipe  Brltanni  timidi  duo,  virque  coloiia. 


lyGoogle 


CONCATENATION   OE   CHAIN   VERSE.  t 

(Blackekin,  you  know,  noTcr  feels,  how  sweat,  'tis  pro  paWia.  mori ; 

Ovid  had  him  in  view  whan  he  said,  "  Niminm  ne  orede  oolori.") 

Now  Bwiftly  they  pull  towards  tUa  mouBter,  wbo  seeing  the  outtfir  ai 

gig  nigh, 
Giares  at  tham  with  terribla  eyaa,  Buffectis  eanguine  et  igni. 
And,  DBver  oonoaiving  their  ohief  will  bo  quiokly  deal  bim  a  floorer. 
Opens  wida  to  raeeiTe  tbem  at  once,  Ms  liaguis  vibruntibis  oraj 
But  jnBt  aa  ba's  licking  bis  lips,  and  gladly  preparing  tfl  taste  'em. 
Straight  into  his  ejabill  the  sMppar  Btridantem  eonjioit  baatam. 
Straight  as  ha  feels  in  his  eyeball  the  lanea,  growing  mighfly  snlky. 
At  'am  he  oomes  in  a  rage,  ora  minas,  lingua  trusnloa. 
"Stam    all,"    ory   the   sailors   at   onoe,    tor   they  think  ho  taa  ocrteii 

caught  'am, 
PrECsentemqua  riria  inlsntant  omnia  mortem. 
But  the  bold  skipper  eielaime,  "  0  terque  quaterque  beat! ! 
Now  with  a  will  dare  Tiam,  when  I  want  you,  ba  only  parati; 
This  hoBs  feels  like  raising  bis  hair,  and  in  spite  of  his  scaly  old  cortes, 
Bull  soon  yon  shall  see  that  his  oorpse  rapidus  vorat  teqaore  vortex." 
Hoc  ait,  and  obooBing  a  lanoe :  "  Willi  this  one  I  think  I  shaU  bit  it. 
He  cries,  and  straight  into  bis  moath,  ad  intlma  Tiseera  mittit. 
SoraecbeB  the  creature  in  pain,  and  writhes  iJU  the  sea  is  commotum. 
As  if  all  its  waves  had  been  lashed  in  a  tempest  per  Enrum  et  Notum. 
Interea  terrible  shindy  Neptnnus  sensit,  et  alto 

ProspioieiiB  sadly  around,  wiped  his  eye  with  Ihecuff  of  his  palatSt; 
And,  mad  at  his  favorite's  fate,  of  oaths  uttered  one  or  two  thousand, 

mo  to  this  terrible  flght  dare  finei 
neck  of  the  snake  secat  et  das 

mad  with  delight  to  possess  if. 


ffloncatenntiott  or  ffiijain  Vetst. 

LASPHRieE'e   NOVELTIES. 

Lasphkise,  a  Frencli  poet  of  eonaideralile  merit,  claims  the 
invention  of  several  singularities  ia  verse,  and  among  them  the 
following,  in  which  it  will  be  found  that  the  last  word  of  every 
line  is  the  first  word  of  the  following  line  ;— 


lyClOOglC 


CONCATBtfATION    OH.  CHAIN    VERSE. 


Iiienx  oil  pins  sncoment  I'ami  fiddle  arrive. 
Arrive  sane  eonpeon  de  quolque  amL  attentiTe, 
Attentive  i,  vonloir  nous  flurprendre  tons  deiti. 

are  esamplea  in  our  owa  Temacular: — • 

TO  DEATH. 


The  greater  poio,  the  less  defence ; 

The  l6BB  defenee,  the  lesser  gain— 
The  loBB  of  gain  long  ill  doth  try, 
■Wherefore,  oome,  death,  and  let  me  i 


Wherefore,  oomo,  death,  and  let 

Come,  gentle  death,  the  ebh  of  oara,- 
The  ebb  of  oare  the  flood  of  life; 

The  flood  of  life,  the  joyful  fare; 
The  jojfnl  fare,  the  end  of  strife— 

The  end  of  strife  that  thing  wish  I, 

Whereforo,  eome,  death  and  let  me  dit 


TRtWH. 

Nerve  thy  soul  with  d 

ctrinee  noble 

Noble  in  the  walks 

f  Time, 

Time  that  leads  to  an 

temal. 

An  eternai  life  subti 

Life  aublime  in  moral 

leauty. 

Beauty  that  shall  ev 

Ever  be  lo  lure  thee  on 

ward. 

Onward  to  the  fount 

in  free; 

Free  to  every  earnest 

Seeker  at  the  Fount 

of  Youth. 

Youth  exultant  in  ita  beauty, 
Beauty  found  in  the  quest  of  Trnth, 


lyClOOglC 


CONCATENATION    OR  CHAIN   VERSE. 


TEYING    SKYINQ. 

Long  I  looked  into  the  aky, 

8ky  figlow  with  gleaming  stars. 

Stars  that  stream  their  courses  high. 
High  ani  grand,  those  golden  ears, 

Cars  that  ever  keep  their  track, 

Ray  that  loncs  the  lodino, 

Zodiac  with  milhy-waj, 
Milky-way  where  worlds  are  sown. 

Sown  lite  sands  along  ihe  sea. 
Sea  whose  tide  and  tone  e'er  own. 

Own  a  feeling  to  be  free, 
Free  to  leays  its  lowly  place, 

Plaoe  to  prove  with  jondor  spheres, 
Spheres  that  trace  athrough  all  spaoo, 

Space  and  years— nnepoken  years. 


The  following  gem  is  from   an 
,ime,  called  The  1}rue  Trojans  :■ — ■ 


The  stars  unfold  their  flaming  gold, 

To  make  the  ground  more  tender : 
The  ground  doth  send  a  fragrant  smell. 

That  air  may  be  the  sweeter  ; 
The  Mr  doth  charm  the  Bwelilng  seas 

With  pretty  chirping  metrei 
The  sea  with  rivers'  water  doth 

Feed  plants  and  flowers  so  dainty  i 
The  plants  do  yield  their  fruitful  seed. 

That  beaats  may  live  in  plenty; 
The  beasts  do  give  both  fopd  and  eloth. 

That  men  high  Jove  may  honor; 
And  BO  the  World  runs  merrily  round. 

When  Peace  doth  smile  upon  her ! 
Oh,  then,  then  oh  !  oh  then,  then  oh ! 

This  jubilee  last  forever ; 
That  foreign  spile,  or  civil  flght, 

Obt  quiet  tronble  never ! 


lyClOOglC 


Bouts  Mixais. 

Bouts  Simeb,  or  Rhyming  Ends,  afford  considerable  amuse- 
ment. They  are  said  by  Goujet  to  have  been  invented  by 
Dalot,  a  Freneb  poet,  who  had  a  eustom  of  preparing  the 
rhymes  of  sonnets,  leaving  them  to  be  filled  up  at  leisure. 
Having  been  robbed  of  his  p^per*:,  he  was  regretting  the  loss 
of  three  hundred  sonnets.  His  frienda  were  astonished  that 
he  had  written  so  many  of  which  thej  had  never  heard.  "  They 
were  blank  sonnets,"  said  he,  ind  then  e-^plained  the  mystery 
by  describing  bis  "  Bouts  Rim^s  "  The  idea  appeared  ridicu- 
lously  amusing,  and  it  soon  becime  a  fashionable  pastime  to 
collect  some  of  the  most  difficult  ihjmes,  and  fill  up  the  lines. 
An  example  is  appended  : — 


The  rhymes  may  be  thus  complete  I  — 

Tendw-handed  stroke  a  nettle, 

And  it  stings  jou  for  jour  paina ; 
Grasp  it  like  a  man  of  mettle, 

And  it  soft  as  Bilk  remaina. 
"Ea  the  aamo  with  oommon  natures, 

TTsB  them  kindly,  ttej  rebel  ; 
Bot  be  rougli  as  nutroeg-gralers, 

And  the  rogues  obej  you  well 

A  sprightly  young  belle,  who  was  an  admirer  of  poetry,  would 
often  tease  her  beau,  who  bad  made  some  aoquaintauco  with  the 
muses,  to  write  verses  for  her.  One  day,  becoming  quite  im- 
portunate, she  would  take  no  denial,  "  Gome,  pray,  do  now 
write  some  poetry  for  me— won't  you  ?    I'll  help  you  out.    I'll 


lyClOOglC 


BOUTS   KIMfe. 


furnish  you  with   rhymes  if  you  will  make  lines  for  thei 
Here  now : — 


He  at  length  good-hamoredlj  complied,  and  filled  up  the 
measure  as  follows  :— 

To  a.  form  that  ia  faultloBs,  a  feoe  that  muB(— pleaae, 
la  afldea  a  roatless  desire  io— lease ; 
0,  how  my  hard  fato  I  ahould  ever  ba— moan, 
Could  I  but  belioTfl  ahe'd  bo  boDe  of  my— bonel 

Mr.  Bogart,  a  youog  man  of  Albany,  who  died  in  1826,  at 
the  age  of  twenty-one,  displayed  astonishing  facility  in  im- 
promptu writing. 

It  was  good-naturediy  hinted  on  one  occasion  that  his  "  im- 
promptus"  were  prepared  beforehand,  and  he  was  asked  if  he 
would  Kubmit  to  the  application  of  a  test  of  hia  poetic  abilities. 
He  promptly  acceded,  aad  a  most  difficult  one  was  immediately 


Among  his  intimate  friends  were  Col.  J.  B.  Van  Sohaiok 
and  Charles  Fenno  Hoffman,  both  of  whom  were  present.  Said 
Van  Schaick,  taking  up  a  copy  of  Byron,  "  The  name  of  Lydia 
Kane"  (a  lady  distinguished  for  her  beauty  and  cleverness, 
who  died  a  few  years  ago,  but  who  was  then  just  blushing  into 
womanhood)  "has  in  it  the  same  number  of  letters  as  a  stanza 
of  'ChiMe  Harold  has  lines  :  write  them  down  in  a  column." 
They  were  so  written  by  Bogart,  Hoffman,  and  himself. 
"Now,"  he  continued,  "I  will  open  the  poem  at  random;  and 
for  the  ends  of  the  lines  in  Miss  Lydia'a  Acrostic  shall  be  used 
the  words  ending  those  of  the  verse  on  which  my  finger  may 
rest."     The  stanaa  thus  selected  was  this : — 

And  must  tbcy  fall,  the  yonng,  tha  proud,  the  brave, 
To  swell  one  bloated  ebief's  unwbolaaome  reign  ? 
Ko  step  between  submisaion  and  a  grftre  ? 
The  rise  of  rapine  and  the  fall  of  Spain  ? 
And  doth  ae  Power  that  man  adoraa  ordain 
Their  doont^  nor  heed  the  suppliant's  appeal  7 
Is  all  tbat^  deaperate  valor  aula  in  vain? 

The  veteran's  sltill,  youi>h'a  fire,  and  manhood's  heart  of  steel  ? 


lyClOOglC 


90  BOUTS   RIMES. 

The  following  stanza  was  composed  by  Bogart  within  the 
aneceediag  ten  minutes,— the  period  fixed  in  a  wager, — finished 
before  his  companions  tad  reacted  a  fourth  line,  and  read  to 
them  as  here  presented  ;* — 

L   lively  and  lo™d,  o'or  tho  nnoonquBred  liruve 

T  onr  charme  resistless,  matcUeas  girl,  ahull  reign) 

D   Bar  OS  the  mother  holds  her  infant's  grave 

I    n  Love'a  own  region,  warm,  romantio  Spain  I 

A   nd  should  your  fate  to  court  your  steps  ordoin, 

K  inga  would  in  vain  to  regal  pomp  appeal, 

A  nd  lordly  bishops  kneel  to  you  in  vain, 

N  or  volor'a  fire,  law's  power,  nor  churchman's  aoal 

B  ndnre 'gainst  love's  (time's  np!)  untarnished  steel. 

Tte  French  also  Eimnse  themselves  with  houfs  rivnis  retoumh, 
in  which  the  rhymes  are  taken  from  some  piece  of  poetrj,  hnt 
the  order  in  which  they  occur  is  reversed.  The  following  ex- 
ample is  from  the  album  of  a  Parisian  lady  of  literary  celebrity, 
the  widow  of  one  of  the  Crimean  heroes.  The  original  poem  is 
by  Alfred  de  Mnsset,  the  retoumis  by  Marshal  Pelissier,  who 
improvised  it  at  the  lady's  request.  In  the  translation  which 
ensues,  the  reversed  rhymes  are  carefully  preserved. 


(*u 

nd  la  fugitiv 

aesp^r^nce 

Mo 

luda  en  passant. 

l^^ 

a  i.  tire  d'ailo 

s'llanoe 

Oft 

varhomme? 

oa  son  oceur  I'aj 

li'l 

le  rfphir. 

El 

moinslSgS™ 

est  I'hirondelle 

«n 

suit  son  dfisir. 

Ah 

fugitive  enohanterosse. 

»The  truth  of  this  oiroumstBnco  was  subsequently  c 
Hoffman  (whose  memoij  is  still  vigorous)  in  the  oouise  i 
at  the  Pennsylvunia  State  Lunatic  Hospital. 


lyGoogle 


BOUTS   RIMfe 

Saae  attelndre  reuohanteTBSse ; 
Toujonra  Tare  cat  anoisa  dSair 
J'ftl  Wndu  oomme  rhirondella. 
Mala  saua  le  aeoourg  dn  alpbir 
Qui  la  porte  oH  Bon  ctBur  I'appBUe. 
Adieu,  fa,ntame  souriunt. 
Vers  qui  la  jeunesi 


Le  EonTsnir 


Eiuli  I'FEp6rai 


isant; 


.    When  Hope,  a,  fugitive,  retreating 
Elbons  ne,  as  ana;  she  fliea. 
Then  awlft  returns,  another  greeting 
To  offer  ua  with  iaugtlng  eyes. 
Han  goetli  ivhcn  his  heart  is  speaking, 
The  Bwallowa  through  the  lephyrs  dait. 
And  man,  who'a  every  fancy  eeeliing. 
Hath  yet  a  mure  ineonatant  heart. 
Bnchantresfl,  ftigitive,  ooquetting! 
KnoVst  thou  then  tine,  alone,  thy 
•Hath  then  fitem  Eate,  so  old  and  gray. 
So  young  a  mistreas  never  fretting? 


T? 


To  aing  the  miatresa,  never  fretting, 
Musset  gives  Fate,  EO  old  and  gray. 
Too  long  I've  travelled  on  my  way. 
And  ne'er  attained  her  dear  coquetting. 
To  And  that  longing  of  the  heart, 
I've  been,  like  yonder  swallow,  seeking} 
Tel  eould  not  through  the  jephyra  dart, 


ach  the  1 


oaking. 


Rememl 


uHop 


itjng. 


Among  the  eccentricities  of  literature  may  be  olaased  Mhopalic  verift, 
which  begin  with  a  monosyllable  and  gradually  increaae  the  length  of  each 
Euocessivs  trotd.  The  name  iraa  auggested  by  the  shape  of  Hercules'  club, 
^aakar.  Sometimes  they  run  from  the  butt  to  the  handle  of  the  club.  Take 
Ks  an  ejtnmple  of  each, — 

Rem  bibi  confeci,  doctisaime,  dalcleonDram. 

Vectigalibua  armamenta  referre  jubet  Rex. 


lyGoogle 


EMBLEMATIC   TOETRY, 


3Bmtl«natic  ^omg. 


ApairofMii 

sors  aoa  n  oo 

nbin 

versa.— Ben  Johsom. 

On  thair  fair 

tandords  b; 

low 

ud  dieplafed. 

Egga,  aJtara, 

wings,  pipes, 

BJies, 

were  portrajed. — Sen 

The  quaint  conceit  of  making  ' 
sliapea  and  deyiees,  expressive  of  the  theme  selected  by  the 
writer,  appears  to  have  been  most  fashionable  during  the  seven- 
teenth  century.  Writers  tortured  tteir  brains  in  order  to  tor- 
ture their  verses  into  all  sorts  of  fantastic  forms,  from  a  flower- 
pot to  an  obelisk,  from  a  pin  to  a  pyramid.  Hearts  and  fans 
and  knots  were  chosen  for  bve-songa;  wineglasses,  bottles, 
and  casks  for  Bacchanalian  songs ;  pulpits,  altars,  and  monu- 
ments for  religious  verses  and  epitaphs.  Tom  Nash,  according 
to  Disraeli,  says  of  Gabriel  Harvey,  that  "he  had  writ  verses 
in  all  kinds  :  in  form  of  a  pair  of  gloves,  a  pair  of  spectacles, 
a  pair  of  pot-hooks,  &o."  Puttenham,  in  his  Art  of  Poesie, 
gives  several  odd  specimens  of  poems  in  the  form  of  lozenges, 
pillars,  triangles,  &c.  Butler  says  of  Beulowes,  "  the  exoel- 
lently  leaiaed,"  who  was  much  renowoed  for  his  literary 
freaks,  "  As  ior  temples  and  pyramids  in  poetry,  be  has  out- 
done all  men  that  way;  for  he  has  made  a,  grid-iron  &nA  & 
frying pjn  in  veise,  that,  besides  the  likeness  in  shape,  the 
very  tone  and  sound  of  the  words  did  perfectly  represent  the 
noise  mide  bv  these  utensils !  When  he  was  a  captain,  he 
made  all  the  turniture  of  his  horse,  from  the  bit  to  the  cropper, 
the  beaten  poetry,  every  verse  being  fitted  to  the  proportion  of 
the  thing,  with  a  moral  allusion  to  the  sense  of  the  thing :  as 
the  hridle  o/moderatwn,  the  saddle  of  content,  and  the  «iip- 
per  of  constancy;  SO  that  the  same  thing  was  the  epigram 
and  emblem,  even  as  a  mule  is  both  horse  and  ass."  Mr.  Alger 
tells  us  that  the  Oriental  poets  are  fond  of  arranging  their  poems 
in  the  form  of  drums,  swords,  circles,  crescents,  trees,  &c.,  and 
that  the  Alexandrian  rhetoricians  used  to  amuse  themselves  by 
writing  their  satires  and  invectives  in  the  shape  of  an  ase  or  a 


lyClOOglC 


spear.  He  ^yea  the  following  erotic  triplet,  composed  by  a 
Hindu  poet,  tte  first  line  representing  a  bow,  the  second  its 
string,  lie  third  an  arrow  aimed  at  the  heart  of  the  object  of 
his  passiou : — 


I 


,  with  all  my  empire  I  would  gladly  part. 


lyClOOglC 


y*  EMBLEMATIC  POETRY. 

The  following  specimen  of  this  affectation  waa  written  by 
George  Wither,  who  lived  from  1588  to  1677.  It  is  called  by 
Mr.  Ellis  a 

BHOMBOIDAL   DiaGE. 

Sweat  grovas,  to  you! 

You  hilla  that  highest  dwell, 

And  all  joa  humble  Tales,  adieu  ! 

Xou  wanton  hrooks  and  solitary  rocks, 

My  dear  compaaions  all,  and  joa  mj  tendor  flocks ! 

Delighted  onoe  tka  fairest   nymphs  that  dance    upon    the    plains. 

Yon  diaoontanta,  whose  deep  and  over-deadly  smart 

Have  without  pity  broke  the  truest  heart, 

Sighs,  tears,  and  every  sad  annoy. 

That  erst  did  with  me  dwell. 

And      otiiers     joy. 

Farewell ! 

The  Chi  isti^n  m  Dnks  Di  the  Middle  Ages,  who  amnsed  them- 
selves simihrly,  preferred  for  then  hymns  the  form,  of 

THE    CROSS 

Blest  they  who   aei-k 

WL  le    n  the  r  vouth 

"W  th       ?j>ir  t      meek 

The  wai  of  truth 
To  them  the  Baored  Bor  pturc"  now  display 
fhrist  ss  the  only  true  and  1  vmg  way 
His  prooioaa  blool  on  Coliary  was  given 
To  mal^e  them  heira  of  endleas  bliss  in  heaven. 
And  e  en  on  earth  the  chdd  ol  Qi  1  ran  Iraae 
The   glorious  bless    gs  of  h  s  Saviour  s  face. 

For    them     He     bore 

His     Fathers    frown 


Phrn 

haste   t 

choose 

'I'hnt 

better 

Wor 

dare 

The  Lord  you 

r  heart. 

And 

leep 

-Tf 

Calvar 

V      died. 

Hm 

al-ine   who   there 

crucified. 

lyGoogle 


EMBLEMATIC   POETRY. 


SB  represents  our  Bariour;  tHoBs  on  either  side,  the  two 
thieres.  On  the  lop  and  down  the  middle  cross  are  onr  Saviour'a  expression, 
"My  God  1  My  God!  why  liaat  thoa  forsaien  mo?"  and  on  the  top  of  the 
cross  is  the  Latin  hiseription,  "INRr' — Jeaua  Haaarenus  Res  Judeeonim, 
I.e.  Jesus  of  Haiaroth,  King  of  the  Jewa.  Upon  the  cross  on  the  right  hand 
'.s  tie  prayer  of  one  of  the  thlevea ; — "  Lord !  remember  me  when  then  oomest 
Into  ihy  kingdom."  On  the  left-hand  cross  ia  the  saying,  or  reproach,  of  Iha 
others-"  If  thou  beert  the  Ohriat,  save  thyself  and  ns."  The  whole,  oomprjaed 
together,  makes  a  piece  of  excellent  poetry,  which  is  to  be  read  aoroaa  all  the 
oolumna,  and  makea  as  many  linea  a£  there  era  letters  in  the  alphabet.  It  li 
perhaps  one  of  the  moat  onrious  pieces  of  composition  to  ba  found  on  record. 


lyGoogle 


EMBLEMATIC  COMPOSITION. 


IMOENIOUS   CYPHER 

Tte  foOowiDg  ? 

fas  written  by  Prof.  Whewell  at  the  request 

a  youDg  lady : 

U  0  a  0  but  I  0  U, 

0  0  no  0  but  0  0  ma; 

0  let  not-  my  0  a  0  go, 
But  giva  0  0  I  0  U  80. 

(Yomigft/oracjpAcr,  but  I  rigS /or  you ; 
0  tigh  for  no  qrpfter,  but  0  tigh  for  me : 
0  let  not  my  ligh  for  a  ci/pher  go, 
But  glTB  ^gh  for  «gh,  for  I  siji  for  you  ao.) 

TYPOOKAPHIOAL. 

We  once  saw  a  young  man  gazing  at  the  *ry  heavena,  with  a 
f  in  1  J}@°  and  a  ; — ■— .  of  pistols  in  the  other.  We  endeavored 
to  attract  his  attention  by  .ing  to  a  ^  in  a  paper  we  held  in  our 
$^',  relating  2  a  young  man  in  that  §  of  the  oountry,  who  had 
left  home  in  a  state  of  mental  derangement.  He  dropped  the 
f  and  pistols  from  his  B@"©fl  with  the  ! 

"  It  is  I  of  whom  U  read.  I  left  home  be4  my  friends  knew 
of  my  design.    I  had  sO  the  8©*  of  a  girl  who  refused  2  lislO 

2  me,  hut  smiled  b9nly  on  another.     I ed  madly  from  the 

house,  uttering  a  wild  '  2  the  god  of  love,  and  without  replying 
2  the  ?f?  of  my  friends,  came  here  with  this  f  &  ,~^--  of  pis- 
tola,  2  put  a  .  2  my  existence.     My  case  has  no  ||  in  this  §." 

OXFORD   JOKE. 

A  gentleman  entered  the  room  of  I>r.  Barton,  Warden  of 
Merton  College,  and  told  him  that  Dr.  Vowel  was  dead. 
"What!"  said  he,  "Dr.  Vowel  dead  I  well,  thank  heaven  it 
was  neither  TJ  nor  I." 

In  an  old  church  in  Westchester  county,  N.  Y.,  the  following 
consonants  are  written  beside  the  altar,  under  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments. What  vowel  is  to  be  placed  between  them,  to 
make  sense  and  rhyme  of  the  couplet? 

p.  R.  S.  V.  R.  Y.  P.  It.  P.  0.  T.  M.  S. 
V.  B.  K.  P.  T.  H.  S.  P.  B.  C.  P.  T.  S.  1.  S. 


lyClOOglC 


POETRY. 
CATIIABINE  JAY. 


Tbe  girl  without  a  |], 

The  belle  of  U  T  K. 
1 1  dcr  if  U  got  tliat  1 

I  wrote  2  TJ  B  4 
I  Balled  in  the  K  ICS  A, 

And  sent  bj  L  N  Moore 
My  M  T  hesji  will  scarce  ■ 

AcnlmlDA  bright 
But  A  T  milea  from  U I  m 

M-^  thla  cianoa  3  wrile 


ADdli 


!d  N  B  N  V  TI 


Should  N  B  fi-iendsbip  ahow, 

They  should  not  B  foj^ot, 

From  TKt  O  nev  R  D  V  8 ; 


He  off  R'6  in  a  If 
A  g  2  of  land. 
He  soya  he  lorea  U  2  X  S, 


This  S  A,  until  U  I  C, 

I  pray  U  2  X  Q's, 
And  do  not  burn  in  F  E  S 

My  young  and  wayward  mufii 
Novf  fare  U  well,  dear  K  T  J, 

I  trust  that  tT  R  true- 
When  ihia  U  C,  then  you  can  si 

An  S  A  I  0  U. 


lyClOOglC 


MONOSYLLABLES. 


"And  ten  low  words  oft  creep  in  one  dull  line." 

Some  of  our  best  writers  have  very  properly  taken  exception 
to  the  above  line  in  Pope's  Essay  on  Criticism,  and  iiave  sliown, 
by  refferenco  to  abundant  esamples,  that  many  of  the  finest  pass- 
ages in  our  language  are  nearly,  if  not  altogether,  inonosyllahic. 
Indeed,  it  could  not  well  be  otherwise,  if  it  be  true  that,  as 
Dean  Swift  has  remarked,  the  English  language  is  "  OTCr- 
Btocked  with  monosyllables."  It  contains  more  than  five 
hundred  formed  by  the  vowel  a  alone;  four  hundred  and  fifty 
by  the  vowel  e;  nearly  four  hundred  by  the  vowel  i;  more 
than  four  hundred  by  the  vowel  o;  and  two  hundred  and  sixty 
by  the  vowel  u  •  besides  a  larce  number  formed  by  diphthongs. 
F  article,  entirely 

m  says,  to  "prove 

e  test,  need  not 

d  th,  and  life,  and 

P  as  wn  words  by  his 

m  ra  g     m  ff  uid   be  done   by 

b  re  m  the  Essay  above 

-IS  as  E  —  nd  there  are  few 

ther, — are  made 

e  word  of  greater 

ra  e  syllable.     The 

UP         —  m  ul  and  elaborate 

g  —  ur  words,  of  which 

there  are  two  hundred  and  forty-nine  monosyllables  to  fifty-five 
polysyllables,  thus  averaging  but  one  of  the  latter  to  every  line. 
A  single  stanza  is  appended  as  a  specimen ; — 

If  I  am  right,  thy  grace  impart 

StiUin  tlierighttoslaj; 
If  I  am  wrong,  ot,  teauh  my  heart 
To  find  that  better  way  1 


lyClOOglC 


Rogers,  conversing  on  this  subject,  eited  two  lines  from 
Eloisa  to  Ahelavd,  which  he  declared  coald  not  possibly  be 
improved ; — 

Pant  on  thy  lip,  and  fo  thy  heart  he  press'd ; 
Qiye  all  thou  oanat — and  let  me  dream  the  rest. 


Among    the  illustrations  employed  by  Koy, 
selections  froni  the  hymnology  in  comnioa  congregational  use, 
Bnch  as  the  following : — 

Sweet  is  tbe  work,  my  God,  my  Kiugi 

To  praise  tliy  name,  give  thanks,  and  sing; 

To  show  thy  loyo  by  morning  light. 

And  talk  of  aU  thy  truth  at  night,— Watts. 

Are  there  no  foes  for  me  to  fece  J 
Must  I  not  stem  tl^e  floud  7 

Ib  this  Vila  world  a  friend  to  grace 
To  help  me  on  to  God  P— WiTia. 

Save  mo  from  dottth )  from  hell  sot  froo ; 

Death,  hell,  are  hut  the  wimt  of  thee : 

My  life,  my  only  heav'n  thou  art, — 

0  might  I  feel  tkoe  in  my  heart !— C.  Weslbi. 

The  same  writer,  to  show  Shakspeare's  fondness  for  small 
words,  and  their  frequent  subservience  to  some  of  his  most 
masterly  efforts,  enters  upon  a  monosyllabic  analysis  of  King 
Lear,  quoting  from  it  freely  throughout.  Those  wlio  read  the 
play  with  refei-ence  to  ttis  point  will  be  struck  with  the  re- 
markable number  of  forcible  passages  made  up  of  words  of  one 


To  fhis  great  stage  of  fools.— This  a  good  block?- Ac(  JV.  So.  6. 

The  following  occurs  in  the  play  of  King  John,  where  tlie 
King  is  pausing  in  his  wish  to  incite  Hubert  to  murder 
Arthur  :•^— 

flood  n-iend,  thoa  bait  no  eaase  to  Bay  so  yet; 
Bat  thou  shalt  harei  and  creep  ti 


a  thing  I 


say.-But  1 


:o  thae  good. 


—Aa  III.  St.  ■■ 


lyClOOglC 


00  MONOSYLLABLES. 

But  who  I  was,  or  whero,  or  from  wiat  caaae. 
Knew  not ;  W  speak  I  tried,  and  forthwith  spake 

Thou  eun,  add  I,  fair  light. 

And  (liou  enlightened  eartli,  so  freet  and  gay, 

Ye  hills,  and  dales,  ye  rivors,  woods,  and  plains. 

And  JB  that  live  and  move,  ftur  oreaturea,  loll. 

Tell,  if  ye  saw  how  I  came  thna,  how  here  ? — 

Tell  me,  how  maj  I  know  Him,  how  adnre, 

From  whom  I  havo  that  thus  I  move  and  live? — Paivdise  Loit,  S 

Herrick  says,  in  his  address  to  the  daffodils ; — 

We  have  short  lime  \o  stay  aa  you,  ■ 


Thou  who  hast  given  in 


The  1»11  strikes  one.  We  take  no  ni 
Save  by  ila  loss ;  to  give  it  then  a  to 
Were  wise  in  man. — Youhg, 


When  Ihou  must  haata  thee  home, 

Pure  soul !  to  Him  who  calls. 
The  God  who  gave  Iheo  hraath 
Walks  by  the  aide  of  death, 

And  naught  that  step  appalls.— Lasdor. 


A  lift  that  li' 

A  Jove  to  Him 

A  light  to  wl 


lyClOOglC 


MONOSYLLABLES.  101 

Eye's  light,  heart's  love,  soul's  only  life,  He  E  ; 

life,  soul,  lore,  heart,  light,  eyes,  and  all  are  His ; 

Ha  eye,  light,  heart,  love,  aoul ;  He  all  my  joy  and  bliss.— 

Fletcher's  Payple  Island. 

Bailey's  Festu^,  that  extraordinary  poem  the  perusal  of  which 
makes  the  reader  feel  as  if  he  had  "  eaten  of  the  insane  root 
that  takes  the  reason  prisoner,"  abounds  with  examples : — 

JTight  brings  put  stars  as  sorrow  shows  us  truths : 

Though  many,  yet  Ihey  help  not;  bright,  they  light  not. 

They  are  too  lale  to  aerre  na ;  and  sad  things 

Are  aye  too  Irao.     We  never  seo  the  stars 

Till  wa  can  see  naught  but  them.     So  with  truth. 

And  yet  if  one  would  look  down  a  ' 


Event 


Lire's  more  than  hteath,  and  tte  qniek  round  of  blood— 
Wb  live  in  deeds,  not  years;  in  Ihoaghts,  not  breaths — 
We  should  count  time  by  hcait-throtis.     He  most  lives 
Who  thinlia  moat— feels  the  noblest— acts  the  best 
Life's  but  a  means  unto  an  end— 
Helen  (sings.)  Oh!  love  is  like  the  rose, 


The  rose  halh  lost  its  i 
And  the  star  is  in  the  a 
And  the  briny  tear  is  s! 


Pestds.      What  the  i 


What  its  pearls 


lyClOOglC 


102  MONOSYLLABLES. 

Tha  skies  may  put  on  mourning  for  their  Soil, 
And  eaitli  heap  asbes  on  her  heail;  but  yibo 
Shall  keep  lie  Bun  hack  when  he  thinks  to  rise  ? 
Where  is  fha  chiim  shall  bind  him  ?     Where  Oie  cell 
Shall  hold  him  ?     Hell  he  would  burn  down  to  embers, 
And  wonld  lift  up  the  world  with  a  lever  of  light 
Out  of  his  waj :  jet,  know  je,  'twere  thrice  less 
To  do  thrioe  this,  than  keep  the  Boul  froni  God. 

Many  of  the  most  espressive  sentences  in  the  Bible  are  mono- 
syllabic.    A  few  are  subjoined,  selected  at  random: — 

And  8od  said,  Lei  there  bo  light;  and  tliero  was  light  And  &od  saw  tho 
light,  thut  it  was  good.— ffcn.  7. 

At  her  feet  he  bowed,  he  fell,  ho  laj  down ;  at  her  feet  he  bowed,  he  fell : 
where  he  bowed,  there  he  fell  down  dead. — Judges  T. 

0  Lord  my  God,  I  cried  unto  thee,  and  thou  hast  healed  me.  0  Lord,  thou 
haat  brought  np  my  sonl  from  the  grave :  thou  hast  kept  me  alive,  that  I 
nhould  not  go  down  to  the  pit.  Sing  unto  the  Lord,  0  ye  amnta  of  his,  and 
give  thanks.— ftaim  XXX. 

And  he  said  unto  me.  Son  of  roan,  can  thescbones  live  ?—Eseh.  XXXVII. 

Prove  all  thingsi  hold  fast  that  whiob  is  good. — 1  Thes«,  V. 

For  if  we  be  dead  with  him,  we  shall  also  live  with  him. — 2  Tim.  II. 

For  the  great  day  of  his  wrath  iseome;  and  who  shall  be  able  to  stand? 
—Rev.  VI. 

And  the  gates  of  it  shall  not  be  shut  at  all  by  day ;  for  there  shall.bo  no 
Dight  there— ^ci>.  XXL 

THE   POWEE   OP   SHORT  WORDS. 
Think  not  that  strength  lies  in  the  big  round  word. 

Or  that  the  brief  and  plain  must  needs  be  weak. 
To  whom  can  this  be  true  who  once  haa  heard 

The  cry  for  help,  the  tongne  that  all  men  speak. 
When  want  orwoo  or  fear  is  in  the  throat. 

So  that  each  word  gnaped  out  is  like  a  shrielc 
Pressed  ftom  the  sore  heart,  or  a  strange  wad  note. 

Sung  by  some  fay  or  flend  ?     There  is  a  strength 
Which  dies  if  atrctohed  too  far  or  spun  too  fine, 

Whioh  has  more  height  than  breadth,  more  depth  than  length. 
Let  but  this  foroe  of  thought  and  BpBeoh  be  mine, 

And  he  that  will^ay  take  tbe  sleek  fat  phrase 
Which  glows  and  bams  not,  thongh  it  gleam  and  sliine — 

Light,  bat  no  heat — a.  flash,  hut  not  a  blaze ! 


lyGoogle 


THE   BIHLE. 

:  strength  that  tho  short  word  boast? ; 
more  than  fight  or  atorra  to  tall, 
ayea  that  olaah  on  rock-bound  ooaats, 
The  craih  of  tall  trees  when  the  wild  winds  swell. 


On  hlood- 


tained  fields.     It  has  u 
off  on  their  siok-b 


^ell 


n  thut  weep,  for  them  that  muum  the  deadj 

it  laugh  and  dance  and  clap  the  hand ; 

'b  quiok  stop,  as  well  as  grief's  alow  troad, 

words  we  Isarnt  at  first  keep  time. 

And  though  the  theme  be  Bad,  or  gay,  or  grand. 

With  eaoh,  with  all,  these  may  bo  made  to  chime, 

lu  thought,  01  " 


Ob.  A 


I,  Prin^^i 


mt  ISiiJle. 


God's  cabinet  of  revealed  counsel  'da. 
Where  weal  and  «oe  are  ordered  so 
That  every  man  may  know  which  shall  be  his 
UnlesB  his  own  miatake  false  application  make 

It  ia  the  indcs  to  eternity. 

He  caonot  miaa  of  endless  Miaa, 

That  takes  this  chait  to  steer  by, 

Nor  can  he  ha  mistook,  that  speaketh  by  this  ' 

It  is  the  book  of  dud.    "What  if  I  should 

Bay,  God  of  booka,  let  him  that  looks 


Ingry 


tthflt 


His  thoughts  in  aileno 

ACCURACY   OP  THE  BIBLE 

Orb  of  tte  most  remarkable  results  of  n.>,u.,.,.   ^w- .- 

the  confirmation  of  the  aocuracy  of  the  historical  books  of  the 
Old  Testament.  The  ruins  of  Babjlon  and  Nineveh  shed  a 
light  on  tiiose  books  which  no  skepticism  can  invalidate.  What 
surprises  us  most  is  their  marvellous  accuracy  in  minute  details, 
which  are  now  substantiated  by  recent  disooverieB.  The  fact 
seems  to  be  that  when  writing  was  laboriously  ] 


lyClOOglC 


104 

fctone,  men  h  d 
making  the      eo 
difference  t     ru 
thought  ha 
must  he  oorr 
minutes  is 
be  amended 
that  we  in 
the  wars  be 
what  is  the 
rences  in  th 
speaking  of 
and  situati 
tioned  in  tl     B 
eity.     The 
verified,     T       p 
with  great     te 

An  aston        g 
ing  the  tim 
multitude  o 


ceding;  abo  m 

astronomy  i 
the  ancient  — 

even  in  the  fi  g  m     , — 

these  errors  is  to  be  found  in  any  of  our  sacred  books.  Nothing 
there  will  ever  contradict  that  which,  after  so  many  ages,  the 
investigations  of  the  learned  world  have  been  able  to  reveal  to 
us  on  the  state  of  our  globe,  or  on  that  of  the  heavens.  Peruse 
with  care  the  Scriptures  from  one  end  to  the  other,  to  find  such 
blemishes,  and,  whilst  you  apply  yourselves  to  this  examina- 
tion, remember  that  it  is  a  book  which  speaks  of  every  thing, 
which  describes  nature,  which  recites  its  creation,  which  tells 
us  of  the  water,  of  the  atmosphere,  of  the  mountains,  of  the 


lyClOOglC 


THE   BIBLE.  105 

animals,  and  of  the  plants.  It  is  a  book  which  teaches  us  the 
first  revolutions  of  the  world,  and  which  also  foretells  its  last. 
It  recounts  them  in  the  circuTOstaotial  language  of  history,  it 
estols  them  in  the  auhlimest  strains  of  poetry,  aud  it  chants 
them  in  the  charms  of  glowing  song.  It  is  a  book  which  is  full 
of  Oriental  rapture,  elevation,  variety,  and  boldness.  It  is  a 
book  which  speaks  of  the  heavenly  and  invisible  world,  whilst 
it  also  speaks  of  the  earth  and  things  visible.  It  is  a  book 
which  nearly  fifty  writers,  of  every  degree  of  cultivation,  of 
every  state,  of  every  condition,  and  living  through  the  course 
of  fifteen  hundred  years,  have  concurred  to  make.  It  is  a  book 
which  was  written  in  the  centre  of  Asia,  in  the  sands  of  Arabia, 
in  the  deserts  of  Judea,  in  the  court  of  the  Temple  of  the  Jews, 
in  the  musie-sobools  of  the  prophets  of  Bethel  and  Jericho,  in 
the  sumptuous  palaces  of  Babylon,  and  on  the  idolatrous  banks 
of  Chebar,  and  finally,  in  the  centre  of  Westein  civilization,  in 
the  midst  of  the  Jews  and  nf  then  ignorance,  in  the  ujidst  of 
polytheism  and  its  sad  philosophy  It  is  a  book  whose  fiist 
wnier  had  been  fortj  yeirs  a  pupil  of  the  magicians  of  Egypt, 
m  whole  opinion  the  sun,  the  star*,  ind  elements  were  en 
dowed  with  intelligence  reacted  on  the  elements,  ^nd  governed 
the  world  by  a  perpetual  illuvium  It  is  a  book  whose  first 
writer  preceded,  by  more  than  nine  bundled  years,  the  most 
ancient  philosophers  of  ancient  Grreece  ^nd  Asia, — the  Thalc^ei, 
and  the  Pythagorases  the  Zaleucu'^es,  thf  Xenophons,  and  the 
Contuciuses  It  is  a  book  whi(,h  carries  its  niriitions  even  to 
the  hici  archies  of  angels — even  to  the  most  distant  epjchs  of 
the  futuie,  and  the  glorious  scenes  of  the  last  day  Well, 
search  -imong  its  fifty  author'!,  seaich  among  its  ^isty  six 
becks,  its  elevn  Jiundred  and  ei.;bty  nine  chnptcts,  and  its 
thirty  one  thousand  one  hundred  and  seventy  three  verses, 
leaich  for  only  one  of  those  thousand  enors  which  the  ancients 
lad  moderns  have  committed  in  speikiog  of  the  heavens 
or  of  the  earth — of  their  revolutions,  of  their  element ;  search 
— but  you  will  find  none. 


lyGoogle 


106  THE  BIBLE. 

THE   TESTIMONY  OP  LEARNED  MEN. 

Sin  William  Jones'  opioioD  of  the  Bible  was  written  oa 
the  last  leaf  of  one  belonging  to  him,  in  these  terms  :— -"  I  have 
regularly  and  attentively  read  these  HoJy  Scriptures,  arfd  am 
of  opinion  that  thia  volume,  independently  of  its  Divine  ori- 
gin, cOQtains  more  sublimity  and  beauty,  more  pure  morality, 
more  important  history  and  finer  strains  of  poetry  and  elo- 
quence, than  can  be  collected  from  all  other  hooks,  in  whatever 
age  or  language  tliey  may  have  been  composed." 

KouSSEATJ  says,  "Thia  Divine  Book,  the  only  one  which  is 
indispensable  to  the  Christ' an  need  only  be  read  with  reflec- 
tion to  iosp  re  lore  for  its  anth  r  n  1  the  most  ardent  desire 
to  obey  its  pre  ept«  Never  d  d  v  rtue  speak  so  sweet  a  lan- 
guage ;  never  was  the  m  st  frofoun  1  wisdom  expressed  with  so 
much  enerfty  ads  mpl  c  ty  N  one  can  arise  from  ita  perusal 
without  feel  ng  h  mself  better   ban  1  e  was  before." 

WiLBEKPOR  E  n  h  s  ly  h"  h  r  said  to  a  friend,  "Head 
the  Bible.  Let  no  r  1  g  o  i"  bo  k  te  its  place.  Through  all 
my  perplesit  ea  and  d  stresses  1  never  read  any  other  book, 
and  I  never  knew  the  want  of  any  other.  It  has  been  my 
hourly  study  and  all  my  kn  wleige  of  the  doctrines,  and  all 
my  uequaintance  w  th  the  esper  ence  and  realities,  of  religion, 
have  been  de  ved  from  the  B  ble  only.  I  think  religious  peo- 
ple do  not  real  the  B  ble  enough  Books  about  religion  may 
be  useful  enouo-h  but  they  w  11  not  do  instead  of  the  simple 
truth  of  the  B  bio 

LOED  BoLiNGBROKE  declare!  that  "the  Gfospei  is,  in  all 
cases,  one  cont  nued  les  on  ot  the  st  ctest  morality,  of  justice, 
of  benevolence  to    ot  ua  ve  sal  cba  ty." 

Similar  test  m  ny  h  s  been  accoried  in  the  strongest  terms 
by  Locke,  Ne  vt  n  Boyle  Selden,  Salmasidb,  Sir  Wal- 
ter Scott,    nd  numberless  others 

Daniel  Webster  hav  ng  been  commended  for  hia  eloquence 
on  a  memorable  occ-is  on  repl  ed  If  any  thing  I  have  ever 
said  or  written  deserves  the  feeblest  enoomiuma  of  my  fellow- 


lyGoogle 


THE   BIBLE.  107 

oountrynien,  I  have  no  hesitation  in  declaring  that  for  their 
partiality  I  am  indebted,  solely  indebted,  to  tbe  daily  and  at- 
tentive perusal  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  tbe  source  of  all  true 
poetry  aud  eloquence,  as  weU  as  of  all  good  and  all  comfort." 

John  Quincy  Adams,  in  a  letter  to  his  son  in  1811,  aaya, 
"I  bave  for  many  years  made  it  a  practice  to  read  tbrougb  tbe 
Bible  onee  every  year.  My  custom  is  to  read  four  or  five  chap- 
ters every  morning,  immediately  after  rising  from  my  bed.      It 

bmu  b  gbdylwb  ^ 


N    n 

ft  ra  Sb  pp    d 

a 

Cb 

y       lad   pu      y 

G    p 

h 

g          d    nta 

b 

byw      h 

nd 

b    n    h                 hy 
p  h            h  d    b 

b 

w  b  u     ub    q 

h    w 

rs     f 

b  m)                    h 

rr  w 

Tb           w 

b       b 

d      b     Bb     — 

Witlim  Ih 

sawM 

volamo  lies 

rjof  a 

Oil  I  happ 

eat  Ihoy  of  knoiiui  race, 

To  whom 

oar  8od  has  given  grace 

To  bear,  t 

0  read, 

to  fear,  fo  pray. 

To  lift  tlie  lateh. 

nd  force  the  way, 

But  better  tad  they  ne'er  been  born. 

Who  read 

to  doubt,  or  read  to  eeoia.—Mona 

lyGoogle 


THE   BIBLE. 


ENGLISH  BIBLE  TRANSLATIONS. 

Otm  ToraioQ  of  the  Bible  ia  to  be  loved  and  prisad  for  this,  as  for  a  thou- 
aand  other  things, — that  it  has  preserved  a  parity  of  meaning  to  many  terms 
of  natural  objects.     Witbont  this  holcifasf,  our  vitiated  imaginations  would 

pooljoal  language;  and  Blanco  White  says  the  same  thing  has  happened  to 
the  Spanisli. — Oolbhidbb. 

Wickliff^s  Bible. — ^This  was  the  first  traDslation  made  into 
the  language.  It  was  translated  by  John  Wioklifi'e,  about  the 
year  1384,  hut  never  printed,  though  there  are  manuscript 
copies  of  it  in  seyeral  public  libraries. 

'JS/ndale's  Bible. — Tbe  translation  of  William  Tyndale,  as- 
sisted  by  Miles  Ooverdale,  was  the  first  printed  Bible  in  the 
English  language.  The  New  Testament  was  published  in 
1526.  It  was  revised  and  republished  in  1530.  In  1532,  Tyn- 
dale and  his  associates  fiaiahed  the  whole  Bible,  except  the 
Apocrypha,  and  printed  it  abroad, 

Matthem^'  Bible. — While  Tyndalo  was  preparing  a  second 
edition  of  the  Bible,  he  was  taken  up  and  burned  for  heresy  in 
llanders  On  his  death,  Coverdale  and  John  Rogers  revised 
it,  and  addfd  a  translation  of  the  Apocrypha.  It  was  dedicated 
to  Hemy  VIII.,  in  1637,  and  was  printed  at  Hamburg,  under 
the  borrowed  name  of  Thomas  Matthews,  whence  it  was  called 
Matthews  Bible. 

C)  onnifi  's  Brills. — This  was  the  first  Bible  printed  by  author- 
ity in  England,  and  publicly  set  up  in  the  churches.  It  was 
Tjndale's  version,  revised  by  Ooverdale,  and  examined  by  Cran- 
mer,  who  added  a  preface  to  it,  whence  it  was  called  Cranmer'a 
Bible.  It  was  printed  by  Grafton,  in  large  folio,  in  1533. 
After  being  adopted,  suppressed,  and  restored  under  successive 
reigns,  a  new  edition  was  brought  out  in  1562. 

The  Geneva  Bible. — In  1557,  the  whole  Bible  in  quarto  was 
printed  at  Geneva  by  Eowlaud  Harte,  some  of- the  English 
refugees  continuing  in  that  city  solely  for  that  purpose.     The 


lyGoogle 


THE   BIBLE.  109 

translators  were  Bishop  Coverdale,  Anthony  Gilbj,  Williain 
Whittingham,  Christopher  Woodman,  Thomas  Sampson,  and 
Thomas  Cole — to  whom  some  add  John  Knox,  John  Bodleigh, 
and  John  Pullain,  all  zealous  CalYinista,  both  in  doctrine  and 
discipline.  But  the  chief  and  moat  learned  of  them  were  the 
first  three.  Of  this  translation  there  were  about  thirty  editions, 
mostly  printed  by  the  King's  and  Queen's  printers,  from  1560 
to  1616.  In  this  version,  the  first  distinction  in  verses  was 
made.  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  title-page  of  the 
edition  of  1559,  omitting  two  quotations  from  the  Scrip- 
tures : — 

THE  BIBLE. 
THAI  IS.  THE  HO- 
LY SCRIPTUEES  CONTEI- 
3SBD  IH  THE  OLDB  AMD  NEWE 
XBSTAMEHT. 
Translated  Aocording 
to  the  Ebtew  and  Gteeke,  and  oonferred  witt  tho 
beat  translations  in  diTers  languages. 


and  othar  tilings  of  Great  importanc 
IMPRINTED  AT  LONDON 
by  tlie  Bopnties  of  Christoplior  Barker,  Prin 


Cum  priuilogio. 

To  some  editions  of  tho  Geneva  Bible,  Qne  of  which  is  this 
of  1599,  is  subjoined  Beza'a  translation  of  the  new  text  into 
English  hy  L.  Tomson,  who  was  under-seoretarj  to  Sir  Francis 
Walsingham.  But,  though  he  pretends  to  translate  from  Beza, 
he  has  seldom  varied  a  word  from  the  Geneva  translation.  Dr. 
Geddes  gives  honorable  testimony  to  the  last  Geneva  version,  as 
he  does  not  hesitate  to  declare  that  he  thinks  it  in  general 
better  than  that  of  the  King  James  translators.  Our  readers 
will  hardly  agree  with  him  when  thoy  read  some  extracts  from 
it  appended  in  a  succeeding 


lyClOOglC 


110  THE  BIBLE. 

The  typographical  appearance  of  this  work  is  quite  a  oun- 
03ity,  Like  most  of  (jie  old  books,  it  is  well  printed,  and  la 
ofnamented  with  the  pen.  Tlie  head  and  foot  rules,  as  well  aa 
the  division  of  the  eolumna,  are  made  with  the  peu  in  red  ink. 
The.  title-page  is  quite  profusely  ornamented  with  red  lines. 

This  translation  of  the  Bible  is  known  as  "the  breeches 
Bible,"  from  the  following  rendering  of  Genesis  iii.  7 : — 


A  peculiarity  in  this  Bible  is  the  substitutiou  of  the  letter  v 
for  u,  and,  vice  v^sa,  u  for  v.  The  name  of  Eve  is  printed 
Heuah  (Hevah);  Cain  is  printed  Kain;  Abel,  Habel;  Enoch, 
Henock;  Isaac,  Ishakj  Hebrew,  Ebrew,  &c.  The  translations 
of  many  of  the  passages  differ  materially  from  our  received 
version.     The  following  will  serve  as  illustrations  : — 


Then  it  [speated  the  Lords  that  he  had  made  man  in  the  eartli,  and  he 
naa  sorle  in  hia  heart.— Gen.  Ti.  6. 

Make  thee  an  Arliee  of  pine  tieea;  then  Bhalt  roafce  cabins  in  the  Arkee, 
and  shoit  pitth  it  Tvithin  and  without  with  pitch.  Thou  shaJe  make  It  with 
the  lower,  second  and  third  rooma.— Gen.  vi.  li,  16. 

enoo  oomeat  thou  ?  &  wlielher  wilt 
oe  Satai.— Oen,  xvL  8. 

When  Abiam  waa  ninatie  jeara  old  &  nine,  the  Lori  appeared  to  Ahram, 
and  said  unto  bim,  I  am  God  aJl  aofBoient,  ivalte  before  mo,  and  be  thou  up- 
right.—Gen.  zvii.  1, 

Then  Abraham  rose  vp  from  the  aigh 
Hiltites,  eajing,  I  am  a  stranger  and  . 
Siili,  3,  4. 

Then  Abraham  yielded  the  apirit  and  died  in  a,  good  age,  an  olde  man. 
and  of  great  jeeres,  and  naa  gathered  to  his  people. — Gen.  sxv-  S. 

Aa  many  were  astonled  at  tbee  (his  visage  iras  so  deformed  of  men,  and 
14.     This  chapter  has  but  fourteen  verses  in  it. 


lyGoogle 


Can  the  blncke  Moore  chftoge  hia.skinne?  or  the  leopard  6ia  apola?— 
Jar.  liiL  23. 

And  atler  thoaa  days  ire  tmasaa  up  onr  ferdloa,  and  went  up  to  Jern- 
gaJem.— Acta  xzi- 15. 

But  Jeans  sojde  mto  her,  Let  the  ohildran  first  bee  fed ;  for  it  is  not  good 
to  take  the  ehMrone  bread,  and  to  oast  it  uuto  whalpa.  Then  ahae  answered, 
and  aaid  unto  tim,  Truthe,  Lorda;  jot  in  deede  the  whelps  aate  under  the 
table  of  the  ohildrens  orummes.-Mark  vii.  21,  28. 

And  ahe  hroght  forth  her  fjrst  begotten  eonne,  and  wrapped  him  in  swad- 
Ijng  olothea,  and  layd  him  in  a  cretebe,  beoauso  there  waa  no  ruivme  for 
them  with  in  the  ynn^. — Luke  ii.  7. 

Tiie  Bishops'  Bible. — ArcLbisfaop  Parkei  engaged  bisliops 
and  other  learned  men  to  bring  out  i  new  translation  They 
did  so  in  1568,  in  large  folio.  It  made  what  was  afterwaida 
called  the  great  English  Bible,  and  commonly  the  Bishops' 
Bible.  la  1589  it  was  published  in  octavo,  in  sreall,  but  iine 
black  letter.  In  it  the  chapters  wore  dnided  into  versus,  but 
without  any  breaks  for  them. 

Matthew  Parker's  Bible.— Th.^  Bishops'  Bible  underwent 
some  corrections,  and  was  printed  m  lai^e  toho  in  1572,  and 
oalled  Matthew  Parker's  Bible.  The  veisKu  wis  used  m  the 
churches  for  forty  years. 

The  Douay  Bible. — The  Hew  Testament  wis  brought  out 
by  the  Soman  Catholics  i»  1582,  and  called  the  Rhemi--h  New 
Testament.  It  was  condemned  by  the  Queen  ii  Bnglmd,  and 
copies  were  seized  by  her  authority  and  destroyed  In  1609 
and  1610,  the  Old  Testament  was  idded,  and  the  whole  pub- 
lished at  Douay,  hence  called  the  Douay  Bible 

Einff  James's  Bible.— TU  veraic  n  now  in  use  was  brought  out 
by  King  James's  authority  in  1611.  Fifty-four  learned  men 
were  employed  to  accomplish  the  work  of  revising  it.  From 
death  or  other  cause,  seven  of  them  failed  to  enter  upon  it. 
The  remaining  forty-seven  were  ranged  under  six  diviaiOQS,  and 
had  different  portions  of  the  Bible  assigned  to  those  divisions. 
They  commenced  their  task  in  1607.  After  some  three  or 
four  years  of  diligent  labor,  the  whole  was  completed.  This  ver- 
sion was  generally  adopted,  and  the  other  translations  fell  into 
disMe.     It  baa  continued  in  use  until  the  pr^ent  time. 


lyClOOglC 


OF    THE    OLD    i 

In  tiie  Nen.... 


S  1,113 

773,682 

...3,566,480 


.3  ]  VerBBs.. 


081  [  Words 152,185 

the  Bible  is  Psalm  oxvii. 


The  middle  chapter  and  the  least 

The  middle  verse  is  the  eighth  of  Psalm  csviii. 

The  middle  lice  is  in  2d  Chrooiclea,  4th  chapter,  16th  verse. 

The  word  and  occurs  in  the  Old  Testament  35,543  times. 

The  same  in  the  New  Testament,  10,684. 

The  word  Jehovah  occurs  6,855  times. 


The  middle  book  i 
The  middle  ehapte 
The  middle  verse  i 
the  17th  and  18th  v< 
The  least  verse  i 


OLD   TESTAMENT. 
1  Proverhs. 
■  is  Job  xsix. 
i  in  2d  Chronicles,  20th  c. 


in  lat  Chronicles,  1st  chapter,  and  25th 


NEW  TESTAMENT. 

The  middle  book  is  the  2d  epistle  to  Tbessalonians. 
Tho   middle    chapter   is  between   the    13th   and    14th    of 
Komans. 

The  middle  verse  is  the  17th  chapter  of  Acts,  and  17th 

The  least  verse  is  the  ll.th  chapter  of  John,  verse  35. 

The  2l8t  verse  of  the  7th  chapter  of  Ezra  has  all  the  letters 
of  the  alphabet  io  it. 

The  19th  chapter  of  the  2d  hook  of  Kings,  and  the  37tfi  of 
Isaiah,  are  alike. 

N.B. — Three  years  are  said  to  have  been  spent  in  this  curi- 
ous but  idle  calculation. 


lyGoogle 


-THE    BIBLE.  113 

DISTINCTIONS   IN   THE   GOSPELS. 

1.  In  regard  to  their  exterDal  features  and  characteristics: 
The  point  of  view  of  the  first  gospel  is  mainly  Israelitio; 

of  the  second,  Gentile;  of  the  thbd,  universal;  of  the  fourth, 
Christian. 

The  general  aspect,  and  so  to  apeak,  physiognomy  of  the 
first,  mainly,  is  oriental;  of  the  second,  Rumaa;  of  the  third, 
Greek ;  of  the  fourlJi,  spiritual. 

The  style  of  the  first  is  stately  and  rhythmical;  of  the 
second,  terse  and  precise;  of  the  third,  calm  and  copious;  of 
the  fourth,  ar^eas  and  colloquial. 

The  striking  characteristic  of  thu  first  is  symmt-try;  of  the 
second  compression;  ot  the  third,  order ;  of  the  fourth,  system. 

The  thought  and  language  of  the  first  are  both  Hebraistic; 
of  tbe  third,  both  Hellenistic;  while  in  the  second,  thought 
is  often  accidental  though  the  language  is  Hebraistic;  and  in 
the  foarth,  the  language  is  Hellenistic,  but  the  thought 
Hebraistic. 

2.  In  respect  to  their  subject-matter  . 
In  the  first  gospel,  narrative;  in  the  second, 

the  third,  history;    in  the  fourth,  dramatic  portraiture. 

In  the  first  we  often  have  the  record  of  events  in  their  ac- 
complishment; in  the  second,  events  iu  detail;  in  the  third, 
events  in  their  connection;  in  the  fourth,  events  in  relation 
to  tiie  teaching  springing  from  them. 

Thus  in  the  first  we  often  meet  with  the  notice  of  impres- 
sions; in  the  second,  of  facts;  in  the  third,  of  motives;  in 
the  fourth,  of  words  spoken. 

And,  lastly,  the  record  of  the  first  is  mainly  collective,  and 
often  antithetical;  of  the  second,  graphic  and  circumstantial; 
of  the  third,  didactic  and  reflective  ;  of  the  fourth,  selective 
and  supplemental. 

3.  In  respect  to  their  portraiture  of  our  Lord : 

The  first  presents  him  to  us  mainly  as  the  Messiah ;  the 
second,  mainly  as  the  God-man;  the  third,  as  the  Redeemer; 
the  fourth,  as  the  only  begotten  Son  of  God. 


lyClOOglC 


114  THU   BIBLE. 

BOOKS   MENTIONED   IN   THE   BIBIE   ROW  LOST   OR  UNKNOWN. 

1.  THe  Prophecy  of  Enoch.     Seo  Epistle  to  Jade,  14. 

2.  The  Book  of  the  Wara  of  the  Lord.     See  Numb.  xxi.  14. 

3.  The  Prophetical  Gospel  of  Eve,  which  relates  to  the 
Amours  of  the  Sons  of  God  with  the  Daughfers  of  Men.  See 
Origen  coDt.  Celsum,  Tertul.  &e. 

4.  The  Book  of  Jasher.  See  Joshua  x.  13 ;  and  2  Samuel 
1.  18. 

5.  The  Book  of  Iddo  the  Seer.  See  2  Chronicles  ix.  29, 
aodxii.  15. 

6.  The  Book  of  Nathan  the  Prophet.     See  as  above. 

7.  The  Prophecies  of  Ahijah,  the  ShiloQito.     See  as  above, 

8.  The  acta  of  Rehoboam,  in  Book  of  Shemaiah.  See  2 
Chrouicles  xii.  15. 

9.  The  Book  of  Jehu  the  Son  of  Hanani.  See  2  Chronicles 
sx.  34. 

10.  The  Five  Books  of  Solomon,  treating  on  the  nature  of 
trees,  beasts,  fowl,  serpents,  and  fishes.  See  1  Kings  iv.  33. 

11.  The  151st  Psalm. 

THE   WORD  "SELAH." 

The  trauslators  of  the  Bible  have  left  the  Hebrew  word 
Selah,  which,  occurs  so  often  in  the  Psalms,  as  they  found  it, 
and  of,  course  the  English  reader  often  asks  his  minister,  or 
some  learned  friend,  what  it  means.  And  the  minister  or 
learned  friend  has  most  often  been  obliged  to  confess  igQctrance, 
because  it  is  a  matter  in  regard  to  which  the  most  learned 
have  by  no  means  been  of  one  mind.  The  Targums,  and  most  of 
the  Jewish  commentators,  give  to  the  word  the  meaning  of  eter- 
nally forever.  Kabbi  Kimchi  regards  it  as  a  sign  to  elevate  the 
voice.  The  authors  of  the  Septuagint  translation  appear  to  have 
considered  it  a  musical  or  rhythmical  note.  Herder  inclines  to 
,  the  opinion  that  it  indicates  a  change  of  tone,  which  is  expressed 
either  by  increase  of  force,  or  by  a  transition  into  another  time 
and  mode.  Matheson  thinks  it  is  a  musical  note,  equivalent, 
perhaps,  to  the  word  repeat.    According  to  Luther  and  others, 


lyGoogle 


THE   BIBLE.  115 

it  means  silence.  GeseDiua  explains  it  to  mean,  "  Lei  the  in- 
stramenta  play  and  tte  singers  stop."  Wocber  regards  it  as 
eqaiyalent  to  sursum  corda, — up,  my  soul !  Sommer,  after  ex- 
amining all  the  seventy-four  passages  in  wtich  the  word  occurs, 
recognizes  in  every  ease  "an  actual  appeal  or  summons  to  Je- 
hovah." They  are  calls  for  aid,  and  prayers  to  be  heard,  ex- 
pressed either  with  entire  directness,  or  if  not  iu  the  impera- 
tive, Hear,  Jehovah  !  or  Awaie,  Jehovah,  and  the  like,  still, 
earnest  addresses  to  Gk)d  that  he  would  remember  and  hear, 
&c.  The  word  itself  he  considers  indicative  of  a  blast  of  trum- 
pets by  the  priests,  Selah  being  an  abridged  expression  for 
Higgaion  Selah,- — Higgaion  indicating  the  sound  of  the  stringed 
instruments,  and  Selah  a  vigorous  blast  of  trumpets. 

HEXAMETERS  IK   THE   BIBLE. 

/n  the  Psalms. 

mA  eSme  |  Up  >r[th  !l  |  eliout :  oDr  |  Lord  nitli  ihS  \  sound  Sf  £  |  trQmpSt.H 


In  the  Ne«  TeatnmmU 
Art  Ihou  be  1  thilf  abnuld  ]  cBme,  Or  |  dB  we  |  loBk  Kr  S-  |  n0tli5r?|| 
HiisbSnds,  \  IOto  your  |  wives,  and  |  b5  oEt  \  bittgr  a-  |  gainst  tbora.|| 
Blese'd  are  IhS  |  paor  in  |  spirit,  ffir  |  tbeirs  in  tliS  |  kingdSni  Of  |  h6avEn,| 

M    G  1  wh  h  1     verential  admiration 

1  1  b       y      d  p  gr     deur  with  which  the 

B  bl     b       1  —  11   h  1  f  1       d  the  more  sublime 

b  id  h   by  h    sa     d  writers, — took  great 

d  1    1  p  b    7         le        ;    hytkm  of  n 

pas  p  ly        hbkfll: — 


I 

I 


lyClOOglC 


Winer  points  out  the  following  hexameteiB  ia  the  original 
Greek  Tersion  of  tho  New  Testaraent :  — 

Kpflra  d  I  ii  i^tO  [  nrai,  ^mcd  |  Snpi'o  |  jrarffEt  ]  dpyoi^TitaB  i.  12. 
naon  is  I  <Ji;  dya  |  W  <:ai  |  irai.  dw  |  pn^a  ri  |  Aiwir,— James  i.  IT. 
Kal  Tim,'  l^ifl  sat  w  I  ■5"''"  I  ™'«  ^i"  I  ^f"",— Heb,  Kii.  13. 


PARALLELISM  OF  THE   I 

The  promioent  eharacUiristic  of  the  Hebrew  poetrj  is  what 
Bishop  Lowth  entitles  ParalleUsm,  that  is,  a  certain  ecjualitj, 
resembknoe,  or  relationship,  between  the  members  of  each 
period ;  so  that  in  two  lines,  or  members  of  the  same  period, 
things  shall  answer  to  things,  and  words  to  words,  as  if  fitted 
to  each  other  by  a  kind  of  rule  or  measure.  Tlie  Psalms,  Pro- 
verbs, Solomon's  Song,  Job,  and  all  the  Prophets,  esoept  Daniel 
and  Jonah,  abound  with  instances. 

It  is  in  a  great  measure  owing  to  this  form  of  composition 
that  our  admirable  authorized  version,  though  executed  in 
prose,  retains  so  much  of  a  poetical  cast;  for,  being  strictly 
word  for  word  after  the  original,  the  form  and  order  of  the  ori- 
ginal senteneoa  are  preserved ;  which,  by  ttis  artificial  struc- 
ture, this  regular  aJtemation  and  correspondence  of  parts, 
makes  the  ear  sensible  of  a  departure  from  the  common  style 
and  tone  of  prose. 

The  different  kinds  of  parallels  are  illustrated  in  the  foUow- 

PwolhU  J.i!i-!Se(fc— PrOT.  I.  1,  1. 
A  wise  Eon  makoth  a  glad  fathar; 
But  a  foolish  son  is  the  heavicieas  of  hia  molher. 
The  memory  of  the  jnst  is  blesaed; 
Bat  the  name  of  the  tricked  shall  rot. 

PwalUls  iyi(ie(io.— PrDT,  ri.  lB-19. 
These  six  things  doth  the  Lord  hatei 
Yea,  Eevun  me  an  abomination  mito  him: 
A  proud  look,  a  Ijing  tongue, 
And  hands  Ihal  shed  innocent  blood, 
A  heitrt  that  daviaeth  wicked  imaginatious. 
Feet  that  be  swift  in  running  to  mischief, 
A  false  iritnese  that  speaketh  lies. 
And  he  that  soweth  dlsoord  among  brethren. 


lyGoogle 


ComtriKtws.—Fsiiini  xis.  7-9. 
Tha  law  of  the  Lord  ia  porfect,  converting  the  soul ; 
The  testimony  of  tha  Lord  is  sure,  malsing  wise  the  simple! 
The  statutes  of  tha  Lord  aro  right,  rqoiolng  tha  heart; 
The  commandment  of  the  Lord  ia  pure,  enlightening  the  eyes; 
The  fear  of  tha  Lord  ia  olaan,  enduring  forever; 
Tha  judgmonta  of  tlie  Lord  are  true,  and  righteous  altogether. 

Parallels  l^oni/mout, — Psalm  is.  1-4. 
The  Lord  hear  tliee  in  the  day  of  ttouhle ; 
TbenameoftheQodofJaooli  defend  thee; 


And  Btrongthen  thee  out  of  Ziou 

Eememher  nil  thine  offerings. 

And  accept  thy  bamt  saoriSca ; 

Grant  tieo  acnording  to  thine  ov 

n  hear 

And  fulfil  all  thy  oounsel. 

-Psalm 

LI. 

Blessed  is  the  toan 

That  wallietli  not  in  the  oounsel 

Nor  Btandeth  in  the  way  of  sinn 

Her  sittalh  in  tha  seat  of  the  boo 

■nlul. 

ParaHefe  Inlnmerted.- 

-ProT. 

xsiii.  15 

Myson,  if  Ihyiieartbewiae, 

When  Ihy  lips  apeali  right  things. 

It  may  be  objected  to  Hebrew  poetry,  sa.js  Gilfillan,  that  it 
baa  no  regular  rhjthm  except  a  rude  parallelism.  What  then? 
Must  it  be,  therefore,  altogether  destitute  of  music  ?  Has  oot 
the  rain  a  rhytlim  of  its  own,  as  it  pattera  on  the  pane,  or  sinks 
on  the  bosom  of  its  kindred  pool  f  Has  not  the  wind  a  har- 
mony, as  it  bows  the  groaning  woods,  or  howls  oyer  the  man- 
sions of  the  dead  ?  Have  not  the  waves  of  ocean  their  wild 
bass  ?  Has  not  the  thunder  its  own  deep  and  dreadful  organ- 
pipe  1  Do  they  speak  in  rhyme  ?  Do  they  murmur  in  blank 
verse  ?  Who  taught  them  to  begin  in  Iambics,  or  to  close  in 
Alexandrines  ?  And  shall  not  God's  own  specoh  have  a  pecu- 
liar note,  no  more  barbarous  than  is  the  voice  of  the  old  woods 
or  the  older  cataracts  ? 


lyClOOglC 


K   OS  4  to 

/      £         - 

A  bundred  thousnnd  lambs, 
And  a  hundred  thouBand  ran 
With  tbe  wool. 


lyClOOglC 


THE   BIBLE. 


:h  gun  the  lighted  brnnd, 


>  of  all  Che  land 


PAKAILEL   PASSAGES   BETWEEN   EHAKSPEARE   AND   THE 


\    B  gl   h 

m 

E#     T  E  E  t 

h     w   t 

w    k 

1  d  SA  7 

P 

lih  BU    f 

th    p    p        f  > 

w 

b  w  m     h  SI 

kp 

w         d  bt  1  to 

th    Bbl    f     m 

y  i 

h       11    t    t 

hyth            d             m 

d        f  f    1 

Tl 

th        ffi  m 

1 

t           h      m 

d    th 

b    d 

t  fi       t 

1 

wd        1th            thwLfGdl 

b  p          1 

th 

d         dt        tl 

h     b  y 

dth 

t     t       pi 

td 

ty  H      wh     h   1  f 

d   h  m  '^h  k 

P 

H         b     p 

1               w   h 

bim    a  t     f 

th  t 

wb    1        p    p 

ly 

g    d       d     f     hil 

w  hh 

Vy  hjs 

f     M  dl 

f       1      Sh  t  p 

p    p  t     Uy 

m     d 

na  of  the  Bible 

not  by  direct  quotations 

indirect  allu'do 

□   bo!- 

W  d    d    m 

P 

pbl     mtt        fpl 

as         tjl    b 

b>    n 

It         f  th 

gl 

d      npl     ty    f  d 

t    n  wh    b 

t  t 

b     f    nd     1 

h 

A  p       g     f 

tan        n 

h  u  ht       n 

mp        d   by       1 

11    t    n     f    t 

0      fi    t   mp 

th  t    t  mu  t  b  1 

g     th     t    th 

Bfal 

Sh  kp 

N 

ti        nth            t 

tl         m    f    1 

a 

qu  1   J  g 

In 

Sh  k  p            pi  y 

1                         t 

1       d 

Although  the  writer  carries  his  leading  Idea  too  far,  by  strain- 
ing passages  to  multiply  the  instances  in.  which  Shakspeare  bas 
imitated  scriptural  sentences  in  thought  and  construction,  and 
by  leading  his  readers  to  infer  that  it  was  from  the  Bible  Shak- 
speare drew  not  only  his  beat  thoughts,  but  in  fact  bis  whole 
power  of  inspiring  us  with  affection  for  good  and  horror  for 
evil,  it  is  certainly  true  that  some  hundreds  of  Biblical  allu- 
sions, however  brief  and  simple,  show  Shakspea 
with  the  Bible,  his  fondness  for  it,  and  the  almost  n 


lyClOOglC 


120  THE    BIBLE. 

recnirence  of  it  in  his  mind.     The  following  examples  of  hia 
parallelisms  will  be  fouad  interesting  : — 

OliW&).— Rude  am  I  in  my  speech. — i.  S. 
But  ttough  I  be  rude  in  speech. — 2  Cor.  xt.  G, 
Wilckes.— Show  his  ejes  and  grieve  his  heart. — Macbelk,  it.  1. 
Consume  tliine  eyes  and  grievB  tbine  heart. — 1  Sam.  ii.  33. 
.ffac6«J.— Lighted  foola  the  way  to  dusty  death.— y.  5. 
■  Thou  hast  brought  me  into  the  dust  of  death.— Pa.  siii.  15. 

Duaty  death  alludes   to  the   sentence  pronounced  against 

Dust  tbou  art,  and  unto  dust  ahalt  Ihou  return.— Oon.  iii.  19. 
Machelh. — -Life's  but  n  walking  sbadoB. — y.  5. 
Man  walheth  in  a  yain  show.— Pa.  XKlix.  fl. 
PHnee  o/ JIforKCo.— Mislike  me  not  for  my  complexion, 

The  abadoir'd  liyery  of  the  burnished  ann.-~Merch.Ve».  ii.  1. 
Look  not  upon  me,  because  I  am  black,  because  the  sun  batb  looked  upon 

me. — Sol.  Song,  i.  B. 
Oliella.—l  took  by  tho  throat,  the  circumcised  dog,  and  smote  him.~y.  2. 
I  smote  biro,  I  caught  him  by  his  beard  and  smote  him,  and  slow  him. — 

1  Sam.  xvii.  36. 
Monielh.— Let  tbia  pernicious  hour  stand  ajo  accursed  in  the  calendar.— 

Opened  Job  his  mouth  and  cursed  his  day;  !et  it  not  be  Joined  unto  tbe  days 
of  the  year,  lot  it  not  come  into  the  number  of  the  months.— Job  iiL  I,  6. 

ffomiei.- What  a  piece  of  work  is  man  I  Hon  noble  in  reason,  bow  infinite 
in  faculties !  In  form  and  moying,  how  express  and  admirable !  In  ae- 
tjon,  how  like  an  angel  I  In  Apprehension,  how  like  a  Ood  I  Tho  beauty 
of  the  world,  the  paragon  ot  animals  I— ii.  2. 

What  is  mao,  that  tbou  art  mindfal  of  hjm  ?  For  thou  hast  made  him  a 
little  lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast  crowned  bim  with  glory  and  honor. 

Ps.  vUL  i,  5,  6. 
3facbclh.—W6  will  die  with  harness  on  our  back.— v.  5. 
Nieanor  lay  dead  in  hia  harness.— 2  Maccabees  xt.  28. 
Banquo.—Woi)  to  the  land  that's  goyerned  by  a  child. 
Woe  to  thee,  0  land,  when  thy  liing  is  a 'child.- BooleB.  I.  16. 
Banyuo. — In  tho  great  hand  of  God  I  stand. — ilacbelh  ii.  3. 
Thy  right  band  batb  holdcn  me  up.- Ps.  .tviii.  35. 
Man  tho  image  of  his  Maker.— ffmr;,  VIIT.,  iii.  2.— C^.  /.  27. 
Blessed  are  the  peacemakers. -2  Jlenn,  VI.,  ii.  l.—3fatt  V.  29. 


lyClOOglC 


THE   BIBLE.  121 

And  when  he  falls  ho  falls  like  Lucifer.— ^ctt^  VIH.,  iii.  3. 

How  art  thou  fallea  from  hoaran,  0  Lnoifer,  aon  of  tie  morning  !— 

Ismail  siv.  12. 
Ko,  BolingbrokB,  if  over  I  were  traitor, 

Mj  namo  bo  blotted  from  tlie  book  of  Ufa.— iiicAard  //.,  i.  3. 
Whose  aamea  wore  not  written  in  the  book  of  life.- Ear.  sx.,  xit 
Swear  by  thy  graoioua  self— ffiomeo  and  Jaliet,  iL  2. 
He  could  swear  bj  no  greaWr,  he  aware  by  himself.- Heb.  Ti  13, 
My  Btiiy,  my  guide,  and  lantern  to  my  feet.— 2  Heniy  VI.,  ii.  3. 
Tbjwordia  alamp  unto  my  feet,  and  a  light  unto  my  path.— Ps,  oili.  105. 
Who  oan  call  him   hia  friend  that  dips  ia  tho  some  iisbl—Timon  of 

Athens,  iii.  2. 
fle  that  dippeth  his  bsad  with  me  in  tha  dish,  the  same  ehall  betray  me.— 

Matt.  3XTi.  23. 
You  shall  see  him  a  palm  in  Athens  again,  and  flourish  with  the  highest. 

—  Timou  of  Athem,  v.  1. 
The  righteous  shall  flourish  like  the  palm-tree.— Pa.  soii.  12. 
It  is  written,  they  appear  to  men  like  angels  of  light.- P-im.  of  Errors,  iv.  3. 
Satan  himself  is  franaformed  into  ao  angel  of  light.— 2  Cor.  xi.  14. 


Among  tlie  t 


.oms  and  dangers  of  this  world.- ^inj  John,  W.  3. 

lares  are  in  the  way  of  the  froward.- Prov.  xiii.  5. 
When  we  firat  put  thia  dangerous  stone  a  rolling, 
■Twould  fall  upon  ourselves.— ifsnry  VI/I.,  v.  2. 
'  He  that  rolletb  a  stone,  it  will  return  upon  him.— Prov.  ixvi.  27. 

The  speech  of  Ulysses,  in  "Troilus  and  Cressida,"  i.  3,  i 
almost  a  paraphrase  of  St.  Luke  xxi.  25,  26  : — 

But  when  the  planets 

What  plagues,  and  what  portenta !    What  mutiny ! 
What  raging  of  tha  sen !    Shaking  of  earth ! 
Commotion  in  tbe  winds!  frights,  ohanges,  horrors. 
Divert  and  oraelt,  rend  and  deracinate 
The  unity  and  married  oalm  of  states 


Quit* 


n  their 


!  in  the  f 


"  nations,  with  perplexity;  the  sea  anc 
]S  failing  them  for  fear,  and  for  looking 
jming  on  tha  earth;  for  the  powers  of 


lyGoogle 


122  THE    BIBLE, 

Hermia  and  Lear  botL  use  an  espreaaion  derived  from  the 

IIfrmia.—AB  adder  did  it;  for  with  donhler  tongne 

Tban  thine,  thoa  serpenl,  nerer  adder  sl.ung.— MA  N.  Dream,  iii.  2. 
iear. — Struck  me  with  iter  tongue, 

Most  serp^Dt-liiie^  upon  ths  very  heart. — ii..4, 
Tbe;  hare  sharpened  their  tongaes  like  a  serpent;  adders'  poison  is  under 

theirlips.— Ps,  0x1.  S. 
ifor.— All  the  stored  vengeancaa  of  heaven  fall  on  her  iagrateful  top.— 


own  lips  ooTsr  them.— Ps.  ejtl.  9. 

""" 

Mi  to  King  icar.— We'E    set  thee  to   soliool   to  an 
there's  no  laboring  in  the  winter. — ii.  4. 

ant. 

0  teach  the 

he  nnta  aro  a  people  not  strong,  jet  they  prepare  the 

mea 

in  the  sum 

WHO  IS   THE   TRUE   GENTLEMAN? 

The  answer  to  this  question  will  afford  one  of  numberlps^ 
instances  that  can  be  adduced  to  show  the  supenoiitj  ot  in 
spired  composition.  Compare  Biehop  Doane's  idnured  dedni 
tion  with  that  of  the  Psalmist; — ■ 

aaa;  a  diamond  poli'hod 

only  in  consclouEncEe  of  right;  a  gentleman  eubjocls  hie  appetites;  a  gentle- 
man refines  his  tastes  ;  a  gentleman  subdues  his  feelings;  a  gentleman  con- 
trols his  speech;  and  finally,  a  gentleman  deems  every  other  better  than 
Umaelf. 

In  the  paraphri^e  of  Psalm  xy.  it  is  thus  answered  : — 

'Tia  ha  whose  erery  thought  and  dead 

By  rules  of  virtue  moves; 
Whose  generous  tongue  disdains  to  apeak 

The  thing  his  heart  diaproves. 
Who  never  did  a  slander  forge, 

His  neighbor's  fame  to  wound, 
Nor  hearlien  to  a  false  report, 

Who  viae,  in  nil  its  pomp  and  power, 


lyGoogle 


THE   BIULE. 

And  piety,  thongh  clothed  in  raga, 

EeligiouBly  respect. 
Who  to  his  plighted  vowa  aod  trust 

Baa  BTBr  firmly  stood; 
And  though  he  promise  to  his  Iobb, 


WhoBi 


usury  di 


imploy ; 
The  guilllBBB  to  deatroj. 
MISQUOTATIONS   TROM    SCRIPTURE. 


"  God  I 


npers 


m  the  Burial  Ser' 


(0  Italy.     Compare  Isaiah  uvi 

"  Inutile  joidat  of  life  wa  are  ici  death. 
originally,  from  a  hymn  of  Luther. 

"Bread  and  wine  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  lo  ba  i 
the  English  CatcohiBm, 

"Not  l«  be  wise  aboTe  what  ia  written."     Not  in  Soripturi 

"  That  the  Spirit  would  go  from  heart  to  heart  as  oil  from 


Hot  in  Scriptun 
,      "Them 


ciMm 


vjiiiil  to  hia  beai 


"  Iron  sharpeneth  iron ; 
Prov.  isvii. 


ncth  the  Q< 


:el  \o  vessel." 
iriptural  form  ia,  "A 


-.6  of  his  friend." 


■uns maj  read."  "Thathemayrun  thatreadeth."— Ha 

"Owe  no  man  any  thing  but  love."  "Owe  no  man  any  thing,  but  t 
one  another."— Rom.  aiii.  8. 

"Prone  to  ain  as  the  sparks  fly  upward."  "Born  unto  trouble,  j 
aparks  fly  HpiYftrd."— Job  v.  7. 

"  Bsalted  to  heaven  in  point  of  privilege."    Rot  in  the  Bible. 

Eve  was  not  Adam's  helpmate,  but  merely  a  help  meet  for  him ;  n^ 
Absalom's  lung  hair,  of  which  he  waa  bo  proud,  the  instrument  of  his  di 
tiouit  his  head,  and  not  the  hairnpon  it,  havmg  been  oanght  in  the  1 


(2  San 


9.) 


»  In  a  collecdon  of  proverbs  pnbliahed  in  1594,  we  find,  "  Biea  Wfmre  k 
veiuttla  brebia  loadue,"  and  Herbert  has  in  his  Jncula  Prudentum,  "To  8 
cloae  shorn  sheep  God  givea  wind  hj  measure." 

f  A  London  periwig-maher  onoo  had  a  sign  upon  which  was  painted  ^sa- 


,d  from  the  branches  of  t 
If  Absalom  hadn't 


•  oak  b;  his  hiui 
id  a  hanging  there. 


lyGoogle 


124 

THE   EIBL 

"MOQoy 

3  tte  root  of  aril."     Paul  said 

the  root  of  all  efU." 

Teal  of  thj  faoo  ehalt  thou  eat 

33  akiu  to  godlineBS."    Not  in 

I.  Timothy,  Ti. 
read,"  Gen.  iii. 
the  Bible. 

10,  "Th 

elove 

quoted  "bro 
"  Cleanlin 

Our  Lord' 
Is  frequently 

haarmg  tho  doctors  in  the  Tem 
called  his  disputing  witJi  the 

A  SCRIPTURAL 

pie,  and  asking 
octors. 

BULL. 

hem  que 

In  the  book  of  Isaiah,  chapter  sx 
ing  confusion  of  ideas: — 

mi,  verse  36, 

isthefollow- 

Thou  the 
A8sytiaD3  a 
a™sf  early 

angel  of  tho  Lord  nont  forth 
hundred  and  fuuraoore  and 

■Wrr   AND    HUMOE   IN 

and  smote  in  t 
Sve  thousand ! 
all  dead  corp»ei 

eeamp 

of  the 

"Shocking!"  many  a  good  old  saint  will  cry,  at  the  very 
thought  of  it.  "  The  Bible  a  jest-book !  What  godless  folly 
shall  we  have  up  nest?"  No,  the  Bible  is  not  a  jest-book. 
But  there  is  wit  in  it  of  the  first  quality;  and  a  ^ood  reason 
why  it  should  he  there.     Take  a  few  specimens 

Job,  in  his  thirtieth  chapter,  is  telling  how  he  scorned  the 
low-lived  fellows,  who  pretend  to  look  down  on  him  m  his 
adversities.  They  are  fools.  They  belong  to  the  long  eaicd 
fraternity.  Anybody,  with  less  wit,  might  come  out  bl  intly 
and  call  them  asses.  But  Job  puts  it  more  deftly  (_xxs,  7j . 
"Among  the  bushes  they  braced;  under  t\isnet,tles  they  were 
gathered  together."  If  that  is  not  wit,  there  is  no  such  thing 
as  wit.  And  yefc  the  eomnientators  don't  see  it,  or  won't  see 
it.  They  are  perfectly  wooden  when  they  come  to  any  such 
gleam  of  humor. 

Take  another  instance— Elijah's  ridicule  of  the  prophets 
of  Baal.  They  are  clamoring  to  their  god,  to  help  them  out 
of  a  very  awkward  predicament.  And,  while  they  are  at  it,  the 
prophet  shows  them  up  in  a  way  that  must  have  made  the 


lyGoogle 


THE  BIBLE.  125 

people  Toar  with  laugtter.  The  stiff,  antiquated  style  of  our 
English  Bible  tames  down  his  sallies.  Take  them  in  modern 
phrase.  These  quack  prophets  have  worked  themseWes  into 
a  perfect  desperation,  and  are  capering  about  on  the  altar  as 
if  they  had  the  St.  Vitus's  dance.  The  scene  (I.  Kings  sviii. 
26j  27)  wakes  up  all  Elijah's  sense  of  the  ridiculous.  "Shout 
louder !  He  is  a  god,  jou  know.  Make  him  hear !  Perhiips 
he  is  chatting  with  somebody,  or  he  is  off  on  a  hunt,  or  gone 
traveling.  Or  maybe  he  is  taking  a  nap.  Shout  away!  Wake 
him  up!"  Imagine  the  priests  going  thi-ough  their  antics  on 
the  altar,  while  Elijah  bomh.trds  them  in  thb  style,  at  his 
leisure. 

Paul  shows  a  dry  humor  more  than  once,  as  in  II.  Cor.  xii. 
13 :  "  Why  haven't  you  fared  as  well  as  the  other  churches  ? 
Ah!  there  is  one  grievance — that  you  haven't  had  me  to  sup- 
port.    Pray  do  not  lay  it  up  against  me !" 

These  instances  might  be  multiplied  from  the  Old  and  New 
Testaments  both.  What  do  they  show?  That  the  Bible  is, 
on  the  whole,  a  humorous  book?  Far  from  it.  That  religion 
is  a  humorous  subject— that  we  are  to  throw  all  the  wit  we 
can  into  the  treatment  of  it?  No.  Hufc  they  show  that  the 
sense  of  the  ludicrous  is  put  into  a  man  by  his  Maker;  that 
it  has  its  uses,  and  that  we  are  not  to  be  ashamed  of  it,  or 
to  roll  up  our  eyes  in  a  holy  horror  of  it. 

THE   OLn   AND   THE    NEW    TESTAMENT. 

The  name  Old  Testament  was  appHed  to  the  books  of  Moses 
by  St.  Paul  (H,  Cor.  iii.  14),  inasmuch  as  the  former  covenant 
comprised  the  whole  scheme  of  the  Mosaic  revelation,  and  the 
history  of  this  is  contained  in  them.  The  phrase  "  book  of 
the  covenant,"  taken  from  Bxod.  xsiv-  7,  was  transferred  in 
the  course  of  tune  by  metonymy  to  signify  the  writings  them- 
selves. The  term  New  Testament  has  been  in  common  use 
since  the  third  century,  and  was  employed  by  Ensebius  in  the 
sense  in  which  it  is  now  applied. 


lyClOOglC 


A   BCRIPTURAi   SUM. 

Add  «]  your  faith,  virtue; 

And  to  yirtue,  knowledge  ; 

And  h>  kuontedge,  temperance; 

And  to  temperanoe,  patienne; 

And  to  p&tience,  gudliness,' 

And  to  godliness,  Iirotbetly  kindness; 

And  to  farotharlj  kindness,  etaritj. 
T  .-—For  if  these  things  ha  in  you  and  abound,  they  moke  you 
I  neither  be  harran  nor  unfmitful  in  tte  tnowladga  of  our  Lord 
—2  Peter  i.  5,  8. 


Bibliomancj,  or  divioation  by  the  Bible,  had  become  so  com 
moa  ia  the  fifth  century,  that  several  couacila  were  obliged  ex- 
pressly to  forbid  it,  as  injurious  to  religion,  and  savoring  of 
idolatry. 

Thia  kind  of  divination  was  named  Sortes  Sanctorum,  or  Sor- 
tes  Sacrse,  Lota  of  the  Saints,  or  Siored  Lots,  and  consisted  in 
suddenly  opeuing,  or  dipping  into,  the  Bible,  and  regarding  the 
passage  thit  first  presented  itself  to  the  eye  as  predicting  the 
future  lot  of  the  inquirer  The  &i/rtes  Sanctoivm  bad  sue 
ceeded theiS(w(es-Som''rMaeand  SoitesVtigthanseaiihf'P'i^na 
among  whim  it  was  customary  to  tike  the  work  of  some  f  imous 
poet,  as  Homer  oi  Virgil,  and  write  out  different  verges  on 
Bepirate  scrolls,  aad  itterwards  diaw  one  of  them,  or  else,  open- 
ing the  book  suddenly,  consider  the  fiist  verse  that  pre'^ented 
itsipjf  as  T.  prognostication  of  future  events  Even  the  vagrant 
tortune  tellers  like  some  of  the  gypsies  of  our  own  times, 
adopted  this  method  of  imposin"  upon  the  oiedulity  of  the 
Ignorant  The  nations  ot  the  Eist  letain  the  practice  to  the 
piesent  Jay  The  famous  usarpei,  Nadir  Shah,  twice  decided 
upon  biaiCj^ing  cities,  by  opening  at  random  upon  verses  of  the 
polebrited  poet  Hifiz 

This  abuse,  which  was  first  introduced  into  the  church  about 
the  third  century,  by  the  superstition  of  the  people,  afterwards 
gained  ground  through  the  Janoiance  of  some  of  the  clergy,  who 
permitted  prayers  to  be  read  in  the  churches  for  this  very  pur- 


lyCOOglC 


THE   NAME   OF  GOD. 


127 


poae.  It  was  therefore  found  necessary  to  ordain  in  the  Coun- 
cil of  Vannes,  held  A.D.  465,  "  That  whoever  of  the  clergy 
or  laity  should  he  detected  ia  the  practice  of  this  art'  should 
be  cast  out  of  the  communion  of  the  chureh."  In  506,  the 
Cowneil  of  Agde  renewed  the  decree;  and  io  578,  the  Council 
of  Auxerre,  amongst  other  kinds  of  diyinatioa,  forbade  the 
Lots  of  the  Saints,  as  they  were  caOed,  adding,  "Let  all  things 
be  done  in  the  name  of  the  Lord;"  but  these  ordinances  did 
not  effectually  suppress  them,  for  we  find  them  again  noticed 
and  condemoed  in  a  capitulary  or  edict  of  Charlemague,  in  793. 
Indeed,  all  eadeavors  to  banish  them  from  the  Christian 
church  appear  to  have  been  in  vain  for  ages. 


EfjP  Kamt  of  ©oU. 


Tell  them  I  AM,  Jehovah  said 

To  Moaes,  while  earth  heard  io-  dread  i 

At  once,  ttboYB,  beneath,  around, 
All  nature,  without  Toice  or  Bound, 
Baplied,  O  LoRji !  THOU  ART ! 

Christopher  Smart,  an  Englieh  Liauilic. 

It  is  singular  that  the  name  of  God  should  be  spelled  with 
four  letters  in  almost  every  known  language.  It  is  in  Latin, 
Dcus;  Greek,  Zeus;  Hebrew,  Aden;  Syrian,  Adad;  AraMau, 
Alia;  Pesian  byra  Tartarian,  Idga;  Egyptian,  Aumn,  or 
Zeut;  East  Ind  in  Jsgi  or  Zenl;  Japanese,  Zain;  Turkish, 
Addi;  ScindmiMan  Odin;  Wallaohian,  Zeno;  Croatian, 
Doga  ■  Dalmatian  Bogt  Tyrrhenian,  Eher ;  Etrurian,  Chur; 
Margarian  Oese  Swedish,  Codd ;  Irish,  Dioh;  German,  Gott; 
French,  Dieu     hpaniih  Dies ;  Peruvian,  Lian. 

The  name  God  in  the  Anglo-Saxon  language  means  ffood, 
and  this  signifloation  affords  singular  testimony  of  the  Angio- 
Sason  conception  of  the  essence  of  the  Divine  Being.     He  is 


lyClOOglC 


128  THE    NAME   OF   GOD. 

goodness  itself,  and  the  Author  of  all  goodness.  Yet  the  idea 
of  denoting  the  Deity  by  a  t«nn  equivalent  to  abstract  and  ab- 
soluf*  perfection,  striking  as  it  may  appear,  is  perhaps  leas  re- 
markable than  the  fact  that  the  word  Man,  nsoil  to  designate  a 
human  being,  formerly  signified  wickedness  ;  showing  how  well 
aware  were  its  originators  that  our  feUon  nature  had  become 
indentified  with  sin. 

JEHOVAH. 

The  word  Ehhim,,  as  an  appellation  of  Deity,  appears  to 
have  been  in  use  before  the  Hebrews  had  attained  a  national  ex- 
istence. That  Jehovah  is  specifically  the  Gtod  of  the  Hebrews 
ia  clear,  from  the  feet  that  the  heathen  deities  never  receive  this 
name ;  they  are  always  spoken  of  as  Ehhim.  Both  the  pronun- 
ciation and  the  etymolo^cal  derivation  of  the  word  Jehovah 
are  matters  of  critical  controversy.  The  Jews  of  later  periods 
from  rehgious  awe  abstained  from  pronouncing  it,  and  whenever 
it  occurred  in  reading,  substituted  the  word  Adonai  (my  Lord) ; 
and  it  is  now  generally  believed  that  the  sublinear  vowel  signs 
attached  to  the  Hebrew  tetragrammaton  Jhvk  belong  to  tho 
substituted  word.  Many  believe  Jahveh  to  be  the  original  pro- 
nunciation. The  Hebrew  root  of  the  word  is  believed  to  be 
the  verb  havah  or  hayah,  to  be;  hence  its  meaning  through- 
out the  Scriptures,  "the  Being,"  or  "the  Everlasting." 

'GOD   IN  BHAKSPEAKE. 

Michelet  (Jeanne  d'Arc,)  speaking  of  English  literature,  saj« 
that  it  is  "  Soeptiqwe,  Judaique,  Bataadgtie. "  In  a  note  he  says, 
"I  do  not  recollect  to  have  seen  the  word  God  in  Shakspeare, 
If  it  is  there  at  all,  it  is  there  very  rarely,  by  chance,  and  with- 
out a  shadow  of  religious  sentiment."  Mrs.  Oowden  Clarke, 
by  means  of  her  admirable  Ooncordance  to  Shak^eare,  enables 
us  to  weigh  the  truth  of  this  eminent  French  writer's  remark. 
The  word  God  occurs  in  Shakspeare  upwards  of  one  thousand 
times,  and  the  word  heaven,  which  is  so  frequently  substituted 
for  the  word  God — more  especially  in  the  historical  plays — occurs 
about  eiffht  hunted  times.     In  the  Holy  Scriptures,  according 


lyClOOglC 


THE    NAME   0¥   HOD,  Jgg 

to  Cruden,  it  oceura  about  eight  hundreii  times.  It  is  true  that 
the  word  often  occurs  in  Shakspeare  without  a  reverential  senti- 
ment; but  M.  Miehelet  says  it  never  occurs  with  a  religious 
feeling  (un  smtimenl  religieuxJ)  This  statement  is  almost  as 
erroneous  as  that  regarding  the  absence  of  the  word.  It  would 
be  easy  for  an  English  scholar  to  produce  from  Shakspeare  more 
passages  indicative  of  deep  religious  feeling  than  are  to  be  found 
in  any  French  writer  whatever. 

THE   PIRSEE,    TEW,   AND   CHEISTIAN. 

A  Jew  entered  a  Parsee  temple,  and  beheld  the  sacred  fire. 
"What!"  said  he  to  the  pnest,  "do  you  worship  the  fire  ?" 

"  Not  the  fire,"  answeied  the  pnest :  "  it  is  to  us  an  emblem 
of  the  sun,  and  of  lua  genidJ  heaf  " 

"  Do  you  then  worship  the  sun  as  your  god  ?"  asked  the  Jew. 
"Know  ye  not  that  this  luminary  also  is  but  a  work  of  that 
Almighty  Creator?" 

"We  know  it,"  rephed  the  priest:  "but  tho  uncultivated 
man  requires  a  sensible  sign,  in  order  to  form  a  conception  of 
the  Most  High.  And  is  not  the  sun  the  incomprehensible 
source  of  light,  an  image  of  that  invisible  being  who  blesses 
and  preserves  all  things  ?" 

"Doyour  people,  then,"  rejoined  the  Israelite,  "  distinguish 
the  type  from  the  original  ?  They  call  the  sun  their  god,  and, 
descending  even  from  this  to  a  baser  object,  they  kneel  before 
an  earthly  flame  !  Te  amuse  the  outward  but  blind  the  inward 
eyo;  and  while  ychold  to  them  the  earthly,  ye  draw  from  them 
the  heavenly  light  I  '  Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thyself  any 
image  or  any  likeness.' " 

"How  do  you  name  the  Supreme  Being?"  asked  tho  Parsee. 
"  We  call  him  Jehovah  Adonai,  that  is,  the  Lord  who  is, 
who  was,  and  who  wdl  be,"  answerpd  the  Jew. 

"  Your  appellation  is  grand  and  sublime,"  said  the  Parsce; 
"but  it  is  awfu!  too" 

A  Chriafcian  then  drew  mgh,  and  said,^ — 
"We  call  him  Fapbek  " 


lyClOOglC 


130  I-    H.    8. 

The  Pagan  aod  the  Jew  looked  at  each  otter,  and  said, — 
"  Here  is  at  onoe  aa  image  and  a  reality ;  it  ia  a  word  of  the 

Therefore  they  al!  raised  their  ejes  to  heaven,  and  Baid,  with 
reverence  and  love,  "Oua  Patiihii!"  and  they  took  each 
by  the  hand,  and  ail  three  called  one  another  brokers  1 


The  letters  I.  H.  S.  so  conspicuously  appended  to  different 
portions  of  Catholic  churches,  are  said  to  have  been  designed 
by  St.  Bernardine  of  Sienna,  to  denote  the  name  and  mission 
of  the  Saviour.  They  are  to  be  found  in  a  circle  above  the 
principal  door  of  the  Franciscan  Church  of  the  Holy  Cross, 
(jSamto  Oroce^  in  Florence,  and  are  said  to  have  been  put  there 
by  the  saint  on  the  termination  of  the  plague  of  1347,  after 
which  they  were  commonly  introduced  ioto  churches.  The 
letters  have  assigned  to  them  the  following  signifloatioa ; — 

Jesus  hotniDum  Salvator— Jesus,  tbo  Saviour  of  men. 


S  olo  BnlFation  for  us,  that  power  eialled  'bove  measure, 
U  uloDsed  tlie  bonds  of  siu  through  the  precious  alODemen 
8  alTatioQ  iilummee  nil  eurth  through  ages  unoeasliig. 


lyGoogle 


I.    H.    8.  131 

A  maker  of  playing-cards,  which,  like  missels,  were  illumi- 
Diited  in  those  times,  was  one  day  remonstrated  with  hy  St,  Ber- 
nardino, upon  the  sinfulness  of  his  hnsiness.  The  card-maker 
pleaded  the  needs  of  hia  family.  "Well,  I  will  help  you," 
said  the  saint,  and  wrote  the  letters  I.  H.  S.,  which  he  advised 
the  card-maker  to  paint  and  gild.  The  new  card  "took,"  and 
the  saint  himself  travelled  about  the  country  as  a  poster  of  these 
little  sacred  handbills  of  the  Church, 


Of  Lilj  white 
Of  Primroso  i 
Of  aJl  flowerfi 


a  Paradise, 
loso  of  Ryao, 


I  praisa  the  flower  of  good  Joaao, 
Of  all  tho  flowers  that  ever  stall  be, 
Upliold  the  flower  of  good  Jesse, 

For  best  of  nil 
That  erer  wna  or  over  bo  stoll. 


BEAUTIFUL  lEOEND. 

One  day  Rabbi  Judah  and  his  brethren,  the  seven  pillars  of 
Wisdom,  sat  in  the  Court  of  the  Temple,  on  feast-day,  disputing 
about  KEST.  One  said  that  it  was  to  have  attained  s 
wealth,  ypt  without  sin.  The  second,  that  it  v, 
praise  of  all  men.  The  third,  that  it  waa  the 
power  to  rule  the  State.  The  fourth,  that  it  consisted  only  in 
a  happy  home.  The  fifth,  that  it  must  be  in  the  old  age  of  one 
who  is  rich,  powerful,  famous,  surrounded  by  children  and 
children's  children.  The  sixth  said  that  all  that  were  vain, 
nnless  a  man  keep  all  the  ritual  law  of  Moses.     And  Kabbi 


lyClOOglC 


132  I-  H-  s. 

Judat,  the  venerable,  the  tallest  of  the  brothers,  said,  "  Te 
have  spoken  wisely;  but  one  thing  more  is  neoessarj.  He  only 
can  find  rest,  who  to  all  things  addeth  this,  that  he  keepeth  the 
tradition  of  the  elders." 

There  sat  in  the  Court  a  fair-haired  boy,  playing  with  some 
lilies  in  hi3  lap,  and,  hearing  the  talk,  he  dropped  them  with  asto- 
nisbinent  from  his  hands,  and  looted  up — that  boy  of  twelve— 
and  Bald,  "Nay,  nay,  fathers  :  he  only  findcth  rest,  who  loveth 
hia  brother  as  himself,  and  God  with  his  whole  heart  and  soul. 
He  J8  tfreater  than  fame,  and  wealth,  and  power,  happier  than 
a  happy  home,  happy  without  it,  better  than  honored  age ;  ho 
is  a  law  to  himself,  and  above  all,  tradition."  The  doctors  were 
astonished.  They  said,  "When  Christ  conieth,  =hxll  He  tell 
us  greater  things?"  And  they  thanked  Crod,  for  the>  said, 
"  The  old  men  are  not  always  wise,  yet  God  bo  praised,  tli  it 
out  of  the  mouth  of  this  young  suckling  has  His  piaise  be 
come  perfect." 

PERSIAN   APOLOGUE. 

In  Sir  William  Jones's  Persian  Grammar  may  be  found  the 
following  beautiful  story  from  Nisami.  Mr.  Alger  gives  ame- 
trical  translation  in  his  Poetry  of  the  East. 

One  evening  Jesus  arrived  at  the  gates  of  a  certain  city,  and 
sent  his  disciples  forward  to  prepare  supper,  while  ho  himself, 
intent  on  doiog  good,  walked  through  the  streets  into  the  mar- 
ket-place. 

And  be  saw  at  the  corner  of  the  market  some  people  gathered 
together,  looking  at  an  object  on  the  ground;  and  he  drew  near 
to  see  what  it  might  be.  It  was  a  dead  dog,  with  a  halter  around 
bis  neck,  by  which  he  appeared  to  have  been  dragged  through 
the  dirt;  and  a  viler,  a  more  abject,  a  more  unclean  thing 
never  met  the  eyes  of  roan. 

And  those  who  stood  by  looked  on  with  abhorrence. 

"  Faugh  \"  said  one,  stopping  his  nose :  "  it  pollutes  the  air." 
"  How  long,"  said  another,  "  shall  this  foul  beast  offend  our 
sight  ?"     "  Look  at  his  torn  hide,"  said  a  tHrd  :  "  ooe  could 


lyClOOglC 


I.  H.  s.  133 

not  even  out  a  shoe  out  of  it."  "  And  his  Bars,''  aaid  a  fourth., 
" a]l  draggled  and  hleeding."  "No  doubt,"  said  a  fifth,  "he 
has  been  hanged  for  thieving." 

And  Jesus  heard  them,  and  looking  down  compassionately 
on  the  dead  creature,  he  said,  "  Pearls  are  not  equal  to  the 
whiteness  of  hia  teeth  !" 

Then  the  people  turned  t  wa  d  h  m  w  h  m  ement,  and 
said  among  themselves,  "Wh  h  In        he  Jesua  of 

Nazareth,  for  only  HE  cou  d  find  s  m  h  ng  p  y  and  approve 
even  in  a  dead  dog."  And  b  a  h  m  h  j  bowed  their 
heads  before  him  and  wen  n  his  waj 


IE  CR  PT  ON   OP   THE  PEE  C 


Th    fo 


d    0  b    d       ed  from  an 
Lentulus,  President  of 


anc  ea      nanus     p     sent   by 
J  de     t    the  S  n  te  of  Earn 

Ihe  e  esa  hs  nea  Judea,  a  man  of  singular  cha- 
racter, whose  name  is  Jesns  Christ,  The  barbarians  esteem  hira  ■ 
as  their  prophet;  hut  his  followers  adore  him  as  the  immedialfl 
offspring  of  the  immortal  God.  He  is  endowed  with  such  un- 
paralleled virtue  as  to  call  back  the  dead  from  their  graves  and 
to  heal  every  kind  of  disease  with  a  word  or  a  touch.  Hia 
person  is  tall  and  elegantly  shaped;  his  aspect,  amiable  aad 
reverend ;  his  hair  flows  in  those  beauteous  shades  which  no 
united  colors  can  mateh,  falling  in  graceful  curlri  below  his 
ears,  agreeably  couching  on  his  shoulders,  and  parting  on  the 
crown  of  his  head ;  his  dress,  that  of  the  sect  of  Nazarites ;  his 
forehead  is  smooth  and  large;  his  cheeks  without  blemish, 
and  of  roseate  hue;  his  nose  and  mouth  are  formed  with  ex- 
quisite symmetry ;  his  beard  is  thick  and  suitable  to  the  hair  of 
his  head,  reaching  a  little  below  his  chin,  and  parting  in  the 
middle  below;  his  eyes  are  clear,  bright,  and  serene. 

"  He  rebukes  with  mildness,  and  invokes  with  the  most  ten- 
der and  persuasive  language, — his  whole  address,  whether  in 
word  or  deed,  being  elegantly  grave,  and  strictly  characteristic 
of  so  exalted  a  being.     No  man  has  seen  him  laugh,  but  the 


lyClOOglC 


134  r.  H.  s. 

wtole  world  beholds  him  weep  frequently,  and  so  perauaaiTe 
are  his  tears  that  the  whole  multitude  cannot  withhold  their 
tears  from  joining  in  sympathy  with  him.  He  is  moderate, 
temperate,  and  wise  :  in  short,  whatever  the  phenomenon  may 
turn  out  in  the  end,  he  seems  at  present  to  ho  a  man  of  excel- 
lent beauty  and  divine  perfection,  every  way  surpassing  man." 

DEATH- WARaANT  OP   JESUS   CHKIST. 

Of  the  many  interesting  relies  and  fragments  brought  to  light 
by  the  persevering  researches  of  antiquarians,  none  could  be 
more  interesting  to  the  philanthropist  and  believer  than  the  fol- 
lowing,— to  Christians,  the  most  imposing  judicial  document 
ever  recorded  in  human  annals.  It  has  been  thus  faithfully 
transcribed : — 

Sentence  rendered  by  Pontius  Pilate,  acting  Governor  of 
Lower  Galilee,  stating  that  Jeaus  of  Nazareth  shall  suffer 
death  on  the  cross. 

In  the  year  seventeen  of  the  Emperor  Tiberius  Gfesar,  and 
the  27th  day  of  March,  the  city  of  the  holy  Jerusalem — Annas 
and  Caiaphas  being  priests,  sacrificators  of  the  people  of  &od — 
Pontius  Pilate,  Governor  of  Lower  Galilee,  sitting  in  the  presi- 
dential chair  of  the  prfetory,  condemns  Jesus  of  Nazareth  to 
die  on  the  cross  between  two  thieves,  the  great  and  notorious 
evidence  of  the  people  saying  : 

1.  Jesus  is  a  seducer. 

2.  He  is  seditious. 

8.  He  is  the  enemy  of  the  law. 

4.  He  calls  himself  falsely  the  Son  of  God. 

5.  He  calls  himself  falsely  the  King  of  Israel. 

6.  He  entered  into  the  temple  followed  by  a  multitude  bear- 
ing palm  branches  in  their  hands. 

Orders  the  first  centurion,  Qailius  Cornelius,  to  lead  him  to 
the  place  of  execution. 

Forbids  any  person  whomsoever,  either  poor  or  rich,  to  op- 
pose the  death  of  Jeaus  Christ. 
The  witnesses  who  signed  the  condemnatioii  of  Jesus  are — 

1.  Daniel  Robani,  a  Pharisee. 

2.  Joanuus  Eobani. 


lyGoogle 


I.  H.  a.  135 

3.  Raphael  Robani. 

4    Cipet  *i  oitiBen 

Jesus  «!idU  ^0  out  of  the  city  ot  J  ru=alpin  hj  the  giti  of 
Strucnua 

The  fore^oin.,  is  engnvod  oa  a,  wppei  pla.te,  on  the  leverhe 
of  which  IS  wntten  K  simikr  pkte  la  sent  to  each  tribe  " 
It  was  iouad  in  au  aiitij|iie  mjrble  vise  while  exi^vating  m 
the  ancient  city  of  AquilK  m  the  kingdom  of  Naples,  m  the 
jpai  1810  ind  was  discoveted  by  the  Commi'ssioners  of  Atts 
of  the  Prenih  army  At  the  expedition  of  Naples,  it  was  en 
olo^pd  in  a  bos  of  cbray  ■ind  preserved  in  the  sacnstj  of  the 
Carthusians  The  French  translation  was  made  by  the  Commia- 
sionerb  ot  Arts     The  on^nil  is  in  the  Hebrew  language. 

DOUBLE  HEXAMETER. 

Si  ChriBtum  {  j?^^*?|  j  nihil  est  si  cstcra  j  ^^'j' 

ANTICIPATORY  USE  OF  THE  0BO8S. 

Madame  Calderon  de  la  Barca,  iu  her  Life  in  Mexico  {pub, 
18Jf3),  says  that  the  symbol  of  the  Cross  was  known  to  the 
Indians  before  the  arrival  of  Cortez.  In  the  island  of  Ocaumel, 
near  Yucatan,  there  were  several;  and  in  Yucatan*  itself  there 
was  a  stone  cross.  And  there  an  Indian,  considered  a  prophet 
among  his  countrymen,  had  declared  that  a  nation  bearing  the 
same  as  a  symbol  should  arrive  from  a  distant  country.  More 
estraordinary  still  was  a  temple  dedicated  to  the  Holy  Cross  by 
the  Toltee  nation  in  the  city  of  Cholula.  Near  Tulansingo  there 
is  also  a  cross  engraved  on  a  rock  with  various  characters.  In 
Oajaoa  there  was  a  cross  which  the  Indians  from  time  immemo- 
rial had  been  accustomed  to  consider  as  a  divine  symbol.  By 
order  of  Bishop  Cervantes  it  was  placed  in  a  chapel  in  the 
cathedral.  Information  concerning  its  discovery,  together  with 
a  small  cup,  cut  out  of  its  wood,  was  sent  to  Eome  to  Paul  V., 
who  received  it  on  his  knees,  singing  the  hymn'  Vexiila  regis,  etc. 

See  al™  Presoo 
Stephens'  Iniidcm 


lyClOOglC 


THE  LORD  S  PEAYER. 


®|»e  JLora's  ^ta^Et. 


THY   AND   TJS. 

The  two  divisions  of  the  Lord's  Prayer — the  former  relating 
to  the  glory  of  God,  the  latter  to  the  wants  of  maji^appear  very 
evident  on  a  slight  transposition  of  the  personal  pronouns; — 

Thy  name  be  hallo  vied. 

Thy  kingdom  eoine. 

Ths  will  be  done,  &e. 

Us  give  this  daj  our  daily  bread. 

Us  forgive  our  debts,  4b. 

Us  lead  not  into  temptation. 

Us  deliver  from  evil. 

SPIRIT    OF   THE   lord's   PEAYER, 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord's  Prajer  is  beautiful.  This  form  of 
petition  hreathes: — 

A  filial  spirit— Father. 
A  cnMo/io  spirit— Our  Father. 
A  rwerential  spirit— Hallowed  Ije  Thy  name. 
A^HSs!„nary  spirit— Thy  kingdom  oome. 

An  obedient  spirit— Thy  will  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven. 
A  dependent  spirit — Give  ns  this  day  our  daily  bread. 
A  forgiving  spirit — And  forgive  tnr  doUt  as  we  forgive  our  debtors. 
■A  caulious  spirit — And  lead  na  not  into  tcm[  tatiou  but  deliver  be  from  evil. 
A  confidential  and  adoriig  spirit — for  thine  le  the  kingdoia,  and  the 
power,  and  the  glory,  forever      Amen 

GOTHIC   VERSION 

TJlphilas,  who  lived  between  the  years  ^10  and  388,  was 
bishop  of  the  Western  Gothi  jnd  translated  the  greater  part  of 
the  Scriptures  into  the  Gothic  language  The  following  is  his 
rendering  of  the  Lord  s  Pr^iyLr  — 


lyClOOglC 


Atla  unsar  tha  ii 


THE   LORD  S   PRATER 


METRICAL   VERSIONS, 
in  heaven,  ballowed  be  thy  nftn 


arth  and  heaven.    Givi 


Deliver  as  from  evil  while  we  live. 

Per  kingdom,  power,  and  glory  must  remain 

For  ever  and  for  aver  thine ;     Ameo. 

Here  the  sixty-six  words  of  tlie  original,  according  to  the 
authorized  translation  of  St.  Matthew's  version,  are  reduced-  to 
flfty-nine,  though  the  latter  is  fully  implied  in  all  points  except 
two.  "Tliis  day"  ia  omitted;  but,  if  anything,  the  Greek  is 
siightJy  approached,  for  imobaiov  refers  rather  to  to-morrow 
than  to  to-day.  The  antithesis  in  "-Bisi  deliver  us"  does  not 
appear:   if  the  word  deliver  be  sacrificed,  we  may  read,  "But 

The  subjoined  metrical  version  of  the  Prayer  is  at  least  two 
and  a  half  centuries  old,  and  was  written  for  adaptation  to 
music  in  public  worship : — 

Our  Father  which 


Thj  iiingdoii 


le  thy  n 


Even  I 


larththy  will  be  dent 


Give  ns,  0  LorS,  our  daily  bread  this  day: 

As  we  forgive  our  debtora, 

So  forgive  our  debts,  we  pray. 
Into  temptation  lead  us  not, 

Jrom  evil  make  ua  free : 
The  kingdom,  power,  and  glory  thine, 

Both  now  and  ever  be. 

The  Prayer  is  commended  for  its  authorship,  its  efficacy,  its 
perfection,  the  order  of  its  parts,  its  brevity,  and  its  necessity. 


lyClOOglC 


166  THE   LOED  S  PHATER, 

The  followiDg  paraphrase,  which  has  been  set  to  musi< 
duett,  is  of  more  reoeut  origin  ; — 

Our  Hoavenlj  Father,  hear  our  priljer! 

Thy  name  be  hallowed  everywhere; 

Thj  kingdom  eome;  on  oarlh,  thj  will, 

E'en  as  in  heaven,  let  all  fulfill; 

Give  thifl  day'a  bread,  that  we  may  live; 

Eorgive  our  aina  as  we  forgive ; 

Holp  US  temptatioD  to  withstand; 

From  evil  shield  us  hy  Thy  hand; 

Now  and  forever,  unto  Thee, 

The  kingdom,  power,  and  glory  bo.     Amon. 

THE  PRAYER   ILLUSTRATED. 
Our  /"after.— Isaiah  Isili.  16, 

1.  By  right  of  creation.  Malaohi  ii.  10, 

2.  By  bountifnl  provision.  Psalm  oslv.  16. 

3.  By  gracious  adoption.  Ephesians  i.  S. 

Who  art  m  Seaim.—l  Kinge  viii.  43. 

1.  The  throce  of  thy  glory.  Isaiah  IivL  1. 

2.  The  portion  of  thy  childron  1  Paler  i,  4. 

3.  The  temple  of  thy  angels.  Isaiah  vi.  1. 
Hallowed  bs  ihg  JfafflE.— Peolm  civ,  1. 

1.  By  the  thoughts  of  ourheMts.         Psalm  Issivi.  11 

2.  By  the  words  of  our  lipB.  Psalm  ii.  15. 

3.  By  the  works  of  onr  hands.  1  Corinlhians  i.  i 

Thg  Kingdom  eoiiie.— Psalm  ox.  2. 

1.  Of  Providenoe  to  defend  ua.  PsaJm  svii.  3. 

2.  Of  grace  to  refine  ub.  1  Thessalonians  v 

3.  Of  glory  to  crown  us.  Colossiana  iii.  4. 
Thij  mil  be  done  on  Earth  as  it  it  in  Eeavm.—Acts  zisi.  14. 

1.  Towards  us,  wlthont  resistance.  1  Samuel  iii.  IS. 

2.  By  us,  without  compulsion.  Psalm  oiil.  36. 

3.  Universally,  without  esception.  Luke  L  6. 

4.  Elernally,  without  doclonsion.  Psalm  oxix.  93. 

Give  V9  thio  day  oar  daily  bread. 

1.  Of  neoeMity,  for  our  bodies.  Proverbs  iis.  8. 

2.  Of  eternal  life,  fbr  our  soula,  John  vi.  3-i. 
And  fonjiee  ks  out  trespaesea. — Psalm  sjv.  1!. 

1.  Against  the  commands  of  thy  law.  1  John  iii.  4. 

2.  Against  the  graiw  of  thy  gospel.      I  Timothy  i  13. 


lyGoogle 


TUE  LORD  a   PRAYER. 

At  ae  forgive  them  thai  trespass  agaimt  as,— Matthew  vi.  15. 

1.  By  dBfaming  our  ohamotera.  Matlhaw  t.  11. 

2.  Bj  enibesdlng  onr  property,  Phiiemon  18. 

3.  By  abusing  our  pecBODB.  Aots  vli.  80. 
And  lead  tM  no<  into  lemptalion,  6ui  deiiner  na  front  enil. — Matthew  s: 


1.  Of  overwhelming  afflioti 

ons.            Psalm  osis.  1 

S.  Of  worldly  entioemenla. 

3.  Of  Satan's  devieea. 

1  Timothy  ill. 

4.  Of  error's  seduction. 

1  Timothy  vL 

5.  Of  sinful  affections. 

Romans  1.  26. 

e  kingdom,  iind  the  power,  a 

ndlh^glo^,/or^^.-Ju 

1.  Thy  kingdom  governs  a 

1.                Psalm  dii.  19. 

2.  Thy  power  subdues  all. 

3.  Thy  glory  is  abova  all. 

Psalm  oslviii. 

Jm«,.— Epiiesia 

na  i.  11. 

1.  As  it  is  in  thy  purposes. 

Isaiah  liv.  27 

2.  So  is  it  in  thy  promises. 

2  Corinthians 

B.  So  be  it  in  our  prayers. 

Koveiatiun  sx 

I.  So  Shan  it  be  to  thy  prai 

ACKOSTICAL  I 
Onii  Lord  and  King,  "Who  reign'st  enlbtoned  oi 
FiTHEEOf  Light  1  mysterious  Doity! 
Who  art  the  great  I  AM,  the  last,  the  first, 
Akt  righteous,  holy,  merciful,  and  just. 
In  realms  of  glory,  scenes  where  angels  sing, 
Hkateb  Is  the  dnelliag-place  of  God  oi 


Hali 


■D  Tby  Dj 


L  all  names  tri 
tt  Almighty  Friend; 


Thy  glory  shines  I 

NiKE  us  'mong  those  Thy  choicest  gifts  sum 

Thy  kingdom  towers  beyond  Thy  starry  skie 

EisanoM  Satanic  falls,  but  Thine  shall  rise. 

CouB  let  Thine  empire,  0  Thou 

Thy  great 

Wh-i,  God 

Be  it  the  work  of  mortals  to  obey. 

Done  is  the  great,  the  wondrous  work  of  lova; 

On  Calvary's  cross  he  died,  but  raigns  abovei 

Earth  boars  the  record  in  Thy  holy  word. 

As  heaven  adores  Thy  love,  let  earth,  0  Lord ; 

It  shines  transcendent  in  the  eternal  skies, 

Ts  praised  in  heaven— -for  man,  the  Saviour  dies 


ling  will  be 
n  his  will,  h 


lyClOOglC 


0  THE   lord's  prater. 

In  eonga  immortal,  sngels  laud  his  name; 

Heaven  shouts  with  joy,  and  samls  his  lore  proolaim. 

Give  ub,  0  Lord,  our  food,  nor  oeaas  to  give 

Us  needful  food  OQ  which  our  souls  maj  lise ! 

This  be  our  boon  to-daj  aud  days  to  come. 

Day-  without  end  in  our  otaraal  home. 

Onn  needy  souls  supply  from  day  to  day; 

Daily  ssaiat  and  aid  us  when  ire  pray ; 

BKEAn  though  we  ask,  yet.  Lord,  Thy  bloasinga  lend. 

Anu  make  us  grateful  when  Thy  gifts  descend. 

POHDITB  our  sing,  which  in  dostruedon  place 

Us,  the  Tile  rebels  of  a  rehel  race ; 

OuK  follies,  faults,  and  trespasses  forgive, 

Aa  wo,  0  Lord,  our  neighbor's  faults  o'orlook. 

We  beg  Thou  'd'st  blot  ours  from  Thy  memory's  book. 

FoKQiVB  OUT  enemies,  eitend  Thy  grace 

Onit  souis  to  save,  e'oQ  Adam's  guilty  race. 

Debtors  to  Thee  in  gratitude  and  love, 

And  in  that  duty  paid  by  saints  above. 

Lead  ub  from  ein,  and  iu  thy  merey  raise 

TJs  from  the  tempter  and  his  hellish  ways. 

Nor  in  our  own,  but  in  His  name  who  bled. 

Into  Thine  ear  we  pour  our  every  need. 

Tehptatioh'e  fatal  ohorm  help  us  to  ahun, 

But  may  wc  conquer  through  Thy  conquering  Son ; 

DEiavER  us  frooi  all  that  can  annoy 

TJs  in  this  world,  and  may  our  souls  destroy. 

'Erou  all  aalamitiea  that  man  betide, 

Eyiij  and  death,  0  turn  our  feet  aside,— 

Fob  wb  are  mortal  worms,  and  oleave  to  clay,— 

Thine  'tis  to  rule,  and  mortals  to  obey. 

Is  not  thy  mercy.  Lord,  forever  free? 

The  whole  creation  knows  no  God  but  Then. 

Kingdom  and  empire  in  Thy  presence  fall; 

The  King  etern[J  reigns  the  King  of  all. 

Power  is  Thine— to  Then  be  glory  given, 

Ahip  be  thy  name  adored  by  earth  and  heaven. 

The  priuse  of  saints  and  angols  is  Thy  own; 

Qlory  to  Thee,  the  Everlasting  One. 

EoBEVER  be  Thy  holy  name  adored. 

AMEN!  Hosannah!  Messed  bo  the  Lord 


Dr.  Gill,  in  his  Expository,  seriously  tells  us  that  the  word  ABBA  read 
ackwurds  or  forwards  being  the  same,  may  teach  us  that  Qod  is  the  fathei 
f  his  people  iu  adversity  as  well  as  in  prosperity. 


lyGoogle 


THK  lord's  prayer. 

THE  PRATER  ECHOED. 


If  any  ba  di 


nd  fain  would  gather 
Some  eomffirt,  let  him  haste  onto 

Out  Father. 
For  wo  of  hope  and  help  ate  quite  beraaToQ 
Bxoept  Thou         " 


Hidlowed  be  Thy  name. 
Of  all  our  miseries  oast  up  the  Bvia ; 
Show  us  thy  joys  and  let 

■    Thy  kingdom  come. 
WeiBortal  are,  and  alter  from  our  birth; 

Thy  will  bs  done  on  oalth. 
Thoo  madeat  the  earth,  as  well  as  planets  seTet 
Thy  name  be  blessed  hare 

Kotbing  we  have  to  use,  or  debts  to  pay, 
Bicept  Thoa  give  it  us. 

Oiie  ns  this  day 
Wherewith  to  clothe  us,  wherewith  to  bs  fed. 
For  without  Thee  we  want 

Our  daily  bread. 
We  want,  but  want  no  faults,  for  no  day  pMses 


If  we  repent  our  faults,  Thou  ne'er  di 
■ffe  pardon  them 

That  trespass  against 
ForgiTB  us  that  is  past,  a  new  path  tr 
Direot  us  always  in  Thy  faith. 

And  lead  us— 
Us,  Thine  own  people  and  Thy  choaei 
Into  all  truth,  but 

Not  into  tomptatipn. 
ThoH  that  of  all  good  graces  art  the  ( 
Suffer  ua  not  to  wander. 

But  deliTcr 


ehiireli  aod  laymen 


lyGoogle 


THE   PBAYEK   IK   AN    ACROSTIC. 

la  tte  following  curious  composition  the  initial  capitals  spell, 
"My  boast  is  ia  the  glorious  Cross  of  Gkrist."  The  words  itt 
italics,  when  read  from  top  to  bottom  and  bottom  to  tap,  form 
the  Lord's  Prayer  complete;— 

Maka  known  the  Gospel  truths,  Our  Father  King; 

Yield  up  thy  grace,  dent  Father  from  aboTe; 
Blesa  us  with  hearts  mfticA  feelinglj  can  eing, 

"  Our  life  thou  art  for  ever.  Sod  of  Love !" 
Assuage  our  griet  in  love  /or  Christ,  we  praj, 

Sinoe  the  bright  prinoe  of  Seaven  uadLgloy^  died. 
Took  all  our  sins  and  hallowed  the  display. 

Infinite  is-ing — Erst  man,  and  then  the  crnoifiod. 
Stupendous  Qod!  iJts  gitoe  andpoicer  make  knairn  j 

In  Jaaua'  name  lei  aJl  the  world  r^oioa. 
Now  all  the  world  (ij  heasenly  kingdom  own. 

The  blessed  hingdoia  for  thy  saints  the  ohoioe. 
How  rile  to  Borne  to  lliee  is  nil  oor  ery, 


0  God,  thy  will  be  done  from  earth  to  Heali 

Seclining  a»  the  SoEpel  let  i»  live. 
In  earih  from  sin  deUver-ed  and  forgiven, 

Oh '.  aa  thyself  b-at  teaoh  ue  to  foi^re. 
OnlesB  si's  power  lemplalioK  doth  destroy. 

Sure  u  our  full  into  the  depths  of  woe, 
Carnal  in  mind,  we're  not  a  glimpse  of  joy 

Baised  against  Beaven;  in  119  no  hope  can 
0  gi'ce  us  grace  and  lead  us  on  thy  way ; 

Shine  on  lu  with  thy  love  and  give  11a  pea 
Self  and  this  sin  that  rise  againet  as  slay ; 

01)  I  grant  each  day  oor  treapats-ea  may  c 
Forgive  our  evil  deeds  that  oft  we  do; 

Help  us  with  heavenly  bread,  forgive  us,  too 
Eeourrant  lusts,  and  we'll  adore  thy  name, 

Since  for  ne  and  our  trsHpnmti  so  high, 
Thy  son,  our  Saviour,  bled  on  Calvary. 


lyClOOglC 


BCCLBSIASnCiE, 


lEccleBiastics. 


EXCESSIVE   CIVILITY. 

Tom  Brown,  in  his  Laconics,  sajs  that  in  the  reign  of 
Charles  II.  a  certain  worthy  diyine  at  Whitetall  thus  ad- 
dressed himself  to  the  auditory  at  the  concliision  of  his  sermon : 
"  In  short,  if  you  don't  live  up  to  the  precepts  of  the  gospel, 
but  ahandon  yourselves  to  your  irregular  appetites,  you  must 
expect  to  receive  your  reward  in  a  certain  place,  which  'tis 
not  good  manners  to  mention  here."  This  suggested  to  Pope 
the  couplet, 

"To  rest,  the  cashLoD  and  soft  rtean  invite, 


SUORT    5 

Dean  Swiit,  having  been  solicited  to  preach  a  charity  ser- 
mon, mouDtod  the  pulpit,  and  after  aunounciug  Lis  test,  "He 
that  giveth  to  the  poor  lendeth  to  the  Lord,"  simply  said, 
"Now,  my  brethren,  if  jou  aro  satisfied  with  the  security, 
down  with  the  dust."  He  then  took  his  seat,  and  there  was  an 
unusually  large  colleetioo. 

The  following  abridgment  contains  the  pith  and  marrow, 
sum  and  substance,  of  a  sermon  which  occupied  an  hour  io 
delivery : — 

"Man  is  bom  to  liwublo." 
This  anbject,  mytearers,  is  naturally  divisible  into  four  heads; — 

1.  Man's  entrnncfl  into  tie  world; 

2.  Hia  progress  throBgh  the  world ; 

3.  His  eiit  from  the  world  i   and 

4.  Practical  tefleetiona  from  Tvbat  may  be  Baid, 
Firat,  then  ;— 


4.  Bnt  doing  weU  hers,  he  will  be  well  thi 
How,  on  thia  subject,  my  brethren  dear, 


lyGoogle 


A  SERMON   ON   MALT. 

The  Eev,  Dr.  Dodd  lived  within  a  few  miles  of  Cambridge, 
(England,)  and  had  offended  several  students  by  preaching  a 
Bormon  on  temperance.  One  day  some  of  them  met  him. 
They  said  one  to  another, — 

"Here's  Father  Dodd  :  he  shaJI  preach  us  a  sermon."  Ac- 
costing him  with, — 

"  Your  servanfa." 

"Sirs!  yours,  gentlemen!"  replied  the  Doctor. 

They  said,  "We  have  a  faTor  to  ask  of  you,  which  musl  be 
granted."     The  divine  asked  what  it  was, 

"  To  preach  a  sermon,"  was  the  reply. 

"Well,"  said  ho,  "appoint  the  time  and  place,  and  I  will." 

"  The  time,  the  present;  the  place,  that  hollow  tree,"  (point- 
ing to  it,)  said  the  students. 

"'Tis  an  imposition!"  said  the  Doctor;  "there  ought  to 
be  consideration  before  preaching." 

"  If  you  refuse,"  responded  they,  "  we  will  put  you  into  the 
tree  !"    Whereupon  the  Doctor  acquiesced,  and  aaked  them  for 

"  Malt  I"  said  they. 

The  reverend  gentleman  oomraeneed : — 

"Let  me  crave  your  attention,  my  beloved  ! 

"  I  am  a  little  mao,  come  at  a  short  warning,  to  preach  a 
short  sermon,  upon  a  short  subject,  to  a  thin  congregation,  in 
an  unworthy  pulpit.  Beloved !  my  test  is  '  Malt.'  I  can- 
not divide  it  into  syllables,  it  being  but  a  monosyllable:  there- 
fore I  must  divide  it  into  letters,  which  I  find  in  my  text  to  be 
four : — M-A-L-T.  M,  niy  beloved,  is  moral — A,  is  allegorical 
I — L,  is  literal — T,  is  theological. 

"  1st.  The  moral  teaches  such  as  you  drunkards  good  man- 
ners; therefore  M,  my  masters — A,  all  of  yoii — L,  leave  off — 
T,  tippling. 

"  2d.  The  allegorical  is,  when  one  thing  is  spoken  and  an- 
other meaat;  the  thing  here  spoken  is  Malt,  the  thing  meant 


lyClOOglC 


ECCLKSIASTIC^. 


H5 


the  oi]  of  malt,  which  you  rustics  make  M,  -your  masters— A 
your  apparel— L,  your  liberty— T,  your  trusts. 

"3d.  The  theolo^oal  ia  according  to  the  effects  it  works, 
which  are  of  two  kinds— the  first  in  this  world,  the  second  in  the 
world  to  come.  The  effects  it  works  in  this  world  are,  in  some, 
M,  murdei--in  others.  A,  adultery— ira  aU,  L,  looseuesa  of  life 
—and  particularli/  in  some,  T,  treasoD.  In  the  world  to  come, 
tbe  effects  of  it  are,  M,  misery-A,  anguish— L,  lamentation 
— T,  torment— aad  thus  much  for  my  test,  '  Malt.' 

"  Infer  1st :  As  words  of  eshortattoa ;  M,  my  masters A 

all  of  you — L,  leave  off— T,  tippling. 

"  2d.  A  word  for  conTJetion  :  M,  my  masters — A,  all  of  you 
— L,  loot  for — T,  torment. 

"3d.  A  word  for  caution,  take  this  r  A  drunkard  is  the  an- 
noyance of  modesty— the  spoiler  of  civility— the  destroyer  of 
reason- the  brewer's  agent— the  alewife's  benefactor— his 
wife's  sorrow— his  children's  trouble— his  neighbor's  scoff— a 
waiting  swill-tub— a  picture  of  a  beast— a  monster  of  a  man." 

The  youngsters  found  the  truth  so  unpalalabl«,  that  they 
soon  deserted  their  preacher,  glad  to  get  beyond  the  reach  of 
his  voice. 


The  fol 
oratorieai 
Kentucky 

"Chem     rj 
teaches  th 
black  carb 
both  com  OS 
proves  tha 
let  the  bu 
the  earth, 
beauty;  an 
into  living  g 
eclipses  ai 


lyClOOglC 


J  46  ECOLEBIASTIC^. 

He  urged  the  same  view  by  another  example,  still  better 
adapted  t*  popular  apprehension  : — 

"Look  yonder,"  said  the  impassioned  orator,  pointing  a 
motionless  finger  towards  the  lofty  ceiling,  as  if  it  were  the 
sky.  "  See  that  wrathful  thunder-cloud — the  fiery  bed  of  the 
lightnings  and  hissing  hwl — the  cradle  of  tempests  and  floods  ! 
—What  can  be  more  dark,  more  dreary,  more  dreadful  ?     Say, 

ffi  k  pf  '8  it  capable  of  any  beauty  ?  You  pronounce 
w         b      b  h        wh       h 


b     h  nd        u        S 
g            h         b    m    h 

h                     b 

h    b    w       m 
g    d          p    p          d 
gaz             g     —h     fl 
w        h            d    h  b 
Ah                   d  h 
feetion  and  symbol  of  u 

wh            w     b 
d 
w     bush  b   eh 
—            hb 

k 

h    k 

h 

h 
d  b     h 

urred  i 

d 

i 

d 
d 
w     h 

the 

h 

b 

a                      b 

b     h         h 
nspeakable  beauty '. 

IE  LORD   BISHOP. 

t  is  said  to  have  oc 

G  d 
P 

laris 

church  of  Bradford,  England,  during  a  special  service,  < 
occasion  of  a  visit  from  the  bishop  of  the  diocese  ; — 

The  elerk,  bofore  the  sermon,  gave  out  the  psalm  in  broad 
Wiltshire  dialect,  namely  :— "Let  us  zing  to  the  praayze  an' 
glawry  o'  God,  three  varases  o'  the  hundred  and  vourteen  zaara 
—a  varsion  'specially  'dapted  to  the  'caasion, — by  meaelf :" — 

Why  liop  je  zo,  ye  little  hills, 

l8  it  'cas  you'm  proad  to  see 
Hia  grille  the  Lard  Biship  t 


lyGoogle 


Is  cam'd  fbe  Laid  B'niiop? 
Bese ; — te  is  oom'd  to  preach  to  vre ; 

Than  let  us  anl  striok  up, 
An'  sing  a  glawiiona  long  of  praajia. 

An'  bleas  Hie  Lurd  Bishup/ 

THE  PEEACHEES  OP  CEOMWELL'S  TIME. 

I>r.  Eohard  says  of  the  preacLera  who  lived  in  the  time  of 
Cromwell, — "  Coiners  of  Dew  phrases,  drawors-out  of  long  godly 
words,  thick  pourera-out  of  tests  of  Scripture,  mimical  squeak- 
era  and  bellowers,  vain-glorioua  admirers  only  of  themselyea, 
and  those  of  their  own  fashioned  face  and  gesture  ;  sucli  aa 
these  shall  he  followed,  shall  have  their  hushels  of  China 
oranges,  shall  be  solaoed  with  all  manner  of  cordial  essenoea, 
and  shall  be  rubbed  down  with  Holland  of  ten  shillings  an  ell." 

One  of  the  singular  fashions  that  prevailed  among  the 
preachers  of  those  days  was  that  of  coughing  or  hemming  in 
the  middle  of  a  sentence,  as  an  oroament  of  speech ;  and  when 
their  sermons  were  printed,  the  place  where  the  preacher 
coughed  or  hemmed  was  always  noted  in  the  margin.  Thia 
practice  was  not  coaQned  to  England,  for  Olivier  MailJard,  a 
Cordelier,  and  famous  preacher,  printed  a  sermon  at  Brussels 
in  the  year  1500,  and  marked  in  the  margin  where  the  preacher 
hemmed  once  or  twice,  or  coughed. 

ORIGIN   OP  TEXTS. 

The  custom  of  taking  a  text  as  the  basia  of  a  sermon  origin- 
ated with  Ezra,  who,  we  are  told,  accompanied  by  several 
Levitea  in  a  public  congregation  of  men  and  women,  ascended 
a  pulpit,  opened  the  book  of  the  law,  and  after  addressing  a 
prayer  to  the  Deity,  to  which  the  people  said  Amen,  "read  in 
the  book  in  the  law  of  God  distinctly,  and  gave  the  sense,  and 
called  them  to  understand  the  reading."    (Nehemiah  viii.  8.) 

Previous  to  the  time  of  Ezra,  the  Patriarcha  delivered,  iu 
public  assemblies,  either  prophecies  or  moral  instructions  for 
the  edification  of  the  people  j  and  it  was  not  until  the  return 


lyClOOglC 


148  ECCLESIASTICS. 

of  the  Jewa  from  the  Babylonish  captivity,  during  which  time 
they  had  almost  lost  the  language  in  which  the  Pentateuch  was 
written,  that  it  became  neceraary  to  explain,  as  well  as  to  read, 
the  Scriptures  to  them.  In  later  times,  the  book  of  Moses  was 
thus  read  in  the  synagogues  every  Sabhath  day.  (Acts  xv.  21.) 
To  this  custom  our  Saviour  conformed :  in  the  synagogue  at  Na- 
aareth  he  read  a  passage  from  the  prophet  Isaiah,  then  closing 
the  hook,  returned  it  to  the  pri^t,  and  preaxihed  from  the  text. 

CLERICAL  BLUNDERS. 

In  an  old  book  of  Sermons  by  a  divine  named  Milsom,  we 
are  told  that  it  is  one  among  many  proofs  of  the  wisdom  and 
benevolence  of  Providence  that  the  world  was  not  created  in 
the  midst  of  winter,  when  Adam  and  Eve  could  liave  found 
nothing  to  eat,  but  in  harv^t-time,  when  there  was  fruit  on 
every  tree  and  shrub  to  tempt  the  willing  hand- 

Auother  commentator  praises  Divine  Goodness  for  always 
making  the  largest  rivers  flow  close  by  the  most  populous  towns. 

St.  Austin  undertook  to  prove  that  the  ten  plagues  of  Egypt 
were  punishments  adapted  to  the  breach  of  the  ten  command- 
ments,— forgetting  that  the  law  was  given  to  the  Jews,  and  that 
the  plagaes  were  inflicted  on  the  Egyptians,  and  also  that  the 
law  was  not  given  in  the  form  of  commandments  until  nearly 
three  months  after  the  plagues  had  been  sent. 


A  clergyman  at  Cambridge  preached  a  sermon  which  one  of 
his  auditors  commended.  "Yes,"  said  a  gentleman  to  whom  it 
was  mentioned,  "it  was  a  good  sermon,  but  he  stole  it."  Tins 
was  told  to  the  preacher.  He  resented  it,  and  called  on  the 
gentleman  to  retract  what  he  had  said.  "I  am  not,"  replied  the 
aggre^or,  "very  apt  to  retract  my  words,  but  in  this  instance  I 
wiU-  I  said,  you  had  stolen  the  sermon;  I  find  I  was  wrong; 
for  on  returning  home,  and  referring  to  the  book  whence  I 
thought  it  was  taken,  I  found  it  there." 


lyClOOglC 


ECCLESIASTICS, 


WeiTEriELD   AND  THE   SAILORS. 

Mr.  Whitefield,  whose  gestures  and  play  of  features  were  so 
fiill  of  dramatie  power,  once  preached  before  the  seamen  at  New 
York,  and,  in  tlie  course  of  his  Kermon,  introduced  the  foUowing 
bold  apostrophe ; — 

"Well,  my  boys,  we  have  a  clear  sky,  and  are  making  fine 
headway  over  a  smooth  sea  before  a  light  breeze,  and  we  shall 
soon  lose  sight  of  land.  But  what  means  this  sudden  lowering 
of  the  heayena,  and  that  dark  cloud  arising  from  the  western 
horizon?  Hark!  Don't  you  hear  the  distant  thunder?  Don't 
you  see  those  flashes  of  lightning?  There  is  a  storm  gathering! 
Every  man  to  his  duty.  How  the  waves  rise  and  dash  against 
the  ship !  The  air  is  dark !  The  tenjpest  rages !  Our  masia 
are  gone.  The  ship  is  on  her  beam  ends  !  What  next?"  The 
unsuspecting  tare,  reminded  of  former  perils  on  the  deep,  as  if 
struck  by  the  power  of  magic,  arose  and  exclaimed,  "  Take  to 
the  long  boat." 

PROTESTANT   KX COMMUNICATION. 

John  Knox,  ill  his  Litut^  for  Scotch  Presbyterians,  sets 
forth  the  following  form  for  the  exercise  of  snch  an  attribute 
of  ecclesiastical  authority  in  Protestant  communities  as  excom- 
munication : — 

"0  Lord  Jeaua  Christ,  thy  expressed  word  is  our  assurance, 
and  therefore,  in  boldness  of  the  same,  here  in  thy  name,  and 
at  the  commandment  of  this  thy  present  congregation,  we  cut 
ofF,  seclude,  and  excommunicate  from  thy  body,  and  from  our 
society,  N.  as  a  pround  contemner,  and  slanderous  person,  and 
a  member  for  the  present  altogether  corrupted,  and  pernicious 
to  the  body.  And  this  his  sin  (albeit  with  sorrow  of  our  hearts) 
by  virtue  of  our  ministry,  wc  bind  and  pronounce  the  sane  to 
be  bound  in  Leaven  and  earth.  We  further  give  oyer,  into  the 
hands  and  power  of  the  devil,  the  said  N.  to  the  destruction  of 
his  flesh;  straitly  ch^^ging  all  that  profess  the  Lord  Jesus,  to 
whose  knowledge  this  our  sentence  shall  come,  to  repute  and 
13* 


lyClOOglC 


150  PTIRITAN    PBOULIAKITIES. 


hold  the  said  N.  accursed  and  unworthy  of  the  familiar  society 
of  Christians;  declaring  unto  all  men  that  3ueh  as  hereafter 
(before  his  repentance)  shall  haunt,  or  familiarly  accompany 
him,  are  partaJrera  of  his  impiety,  and  subject  to  the  like  con- 
demnation. 

"This  our  sentence,  0  Lord  Jeaua,  pronounced  in  thy  name, 
and  at  thy  commandment,  we  hnmbly  beseech  thee  to  ratify 
even  according  to  thy  promise." 


^tttitaii  ^ecttliacitiES. 

BAPTISMAL    NAMES. 

A  Pdbitan  maiden,  who  was  asked  for  her  baptismal  name, 
replied,  " '  Tbrough-much-tribulation-we-enter-the-kingdom-of- 
Heaven,'  but  for  short  they  calJ  me  '  Tribby.' " 

The  following  names  will  be  found  in  Lower's  Hvylisk  ^- 
names,  and  in  the  Lansdowne  Collection.  Most  of  them  are 
taken  from  a  jury-list  of  Sussex  County,  1658.  The  favorite 
female  baptismal  nam^  among  the  Puritans  were  Mercy,  Faith, 
Fortune,  Honor,  Virtue ;  but  there  were  among  them  those  who 
preferred  such  high-flown  names  as  Alethe,  Prothesa,  Euphro- 
ayne,  Kezia,  Keturah,  Malyina,  Melinda,  Sabrina,  Alpina, 
Oriana. 

The-gift-of-&od  Stringer,  The-work-of-God  Farmer, 

More-tryal  Gtoodwiu, 
Faithful  Long, 
Joy-from-above  Brown, 
Be-of-good-comfort  Small, 
Godward  Freeman, 
Thunder  Goldsmith. 


tant  Haael, 

Be-thankful  Playnard, 
Live-in -peace  Hillary, 
Obedieneia  Cruttenden, 
Groodgift  Noake, 


lyGoogle 


PURITAN    PECUI.IAB.1TIE8.  151 

Paint-not  Hewett,  Accepted  Trevor, 

Redeemed  Compton,  Make-peace  Heaton, 

God-reward  Smart,  Stand-fast-on-high  Stringer, 

Earth  Adams,  Called  Lower, 

Meek  Brewer,  Be-courteous  Cole, 

Eepentanee  Avis,  Search- the-soriptures  iMoreton, 

Kill-sill  Pimple,  Eetum  Spelman, 

Bc-faithful  Joiner,  Fly-debate  Eoberls, 

More-fruit  Flower,  ,  Hope-for  Bending, 

Grace-ful  Harding,  Weep-not  Billing, 

Seek-wisdom  Wood,  Elected  Mitchell, 
Fight-tlie-good-figlit-of-faith  White,    The-peace-of-God  Knight. 

SIMILES. 
Prayer  is  Pfuth's  pnmp,  where  't  wor&a  till  the  water  oome ; 
If' t  comes  not  free  at  Bret,  Failh  puts  in  Eome. 
Prajer  is  tlie  eaored  bellows;  whoa  thesa  blow. 
How  doth  that  live-ooal  from  God's  allar  glow  I 

FiUlhfiil  Teams,  Tcr.  Tria.,  1658. 

Walking  in  the  streets,  I  met  a  cart  that  came  near  the  wall ; 
go  I  stepped  aside,  to  avoid  it,  into  a  place  where  I  was  secure 
enough.  Reflection:  Lord,  sin  is  that  great  evil  of  which  thou 
oomplainest  that  thoa  art  pressed  as  a  cart  is  pressed :  how 
can  it  then  but  bruise  me  tfl  powder  f — Oaleh  Tr&nchfield'i 
Ckru.  Okymestree. 

E    R         PUK     HE  N  H      E      S. 

F        th         Ij  1      f  M         h      tts  w    1  th  t    h 

J  11  w  g  1      pu     hm    tw  fltdntht      ly 

tw    h  al    d  y  — 

bPhd      It      tallfidt        bhl      fmltf     h 
b  f    mth         rt 

J     as  PI      t  w      f        teal         f         b    k  (      f  f         the 

I  d    n    t  n  th  m     ght  b    k  ts  b    fi    d  £5     nd 

h       ftetb       II  dJ  M         hudtb 

Thomas  Peter,  for  suspicions  of  slander,  idleness,  and  stub- 
bornness, is  to  be  severely  whipped  and  kept  in  hold. 


lyGoogle 


PECULIARITIES. 

Capt.  Stone,  for  abusing  Mr.  Ludlow  by  calling  him  jvsiass, 
fined  £100,  and  prohibited  coming  within  the  patent. 

Joyce  Dradwick  to  give  unto  Alexander  Becks  20s.,  for 
promising  him  marriage  without  her  friends'  consent,  and  now 
refusing  to  perform  the  game. 

Richard  Turner,  for  being  notoriously  drunk,  fined  £2. 

Edward  Palmer,  for  his  extortion  in  taking  32s.  Id.  for  the 
plank  and  work  of  Boston  stocks,  fined  £5,  and  sentenced  to 
sit  one  hour  in  the  stocks. 

John  Whit*  bound  in  £10  to  good  behavior,  and  not  come 
into  the  company  of  his  neighbor  Thomas  Bell's  wife  alone. 

VIRQINIA  PENALTIES   IN   THE  OLDIN   TIME. 

From  the  old  records  in  the  Court  House  of  Warwick  County, 
Virginia,  we  extract  some  entries  of  decisions  by  the  court  under 
date  of  October  21,  1663,  It  may  be  worth  while  to  remark 
that  at  that  early  period  tobacco  was  not  only  a  staple  commodity 
but  a  substitute  for  currency. 

"  Mr.  John  Harlow,  and  Alice  his  wife,  being  by  the  grand 
inquest  presented  for  absenting  themselves  from  church,  are, 
according  to  the  act,  fined  each  of  them  fifty  pounds  of  tobacco; 
and  the  said  Mr.  John  Harlow  ordered  forthwith  to  pay  one 
hundred  pounds  of  tobacco  to  the  sherifi",  otherwise  the  said 
sheriff  to  levy  by  way  of  distress." 

"  Jane  Harde,  the  wife  of  Henry  Harde,  being  presented  for 
not  'tending  church,  is,  according  to  act,  fined  fifty  pounds  of 
tobacco  ;  and  the  sheriff  is  ordered  to  collect  the  same  from  her, 
and,  in  case  of  non-payment,  to  distress." 

"John  Lewis,  his  wife  this  day  refiising  to  take  the  oath  of 
allegiance,  being  ordered  her,  is  committed  into  the  sheriff's 
custody,  to  remain  until  she  take  the  said  oath,  or  until  further 
ordered  to  the  contraty." 

"John  Lewis,  his  wife  for  absenting  herself  firom  church,  is 
fined  fifty  pounds  of  tobacco,  to  be  collected  by  the  sheriff  from 
her  husband;  anduponnon-payment,  the  said  sheriff  to  distress." 


lyGoogle 


PURITAN   PECULIARITIEe. 


153 


"  George  Harwood,  being  prosecuted  for  hia  absenting  bim- 
self  from  ohurch,  is  fined  fifty  pounds  of  tobacco,  to  be  levied 
by  way  of  diatrese  by  the  sheriff  upon  hia  non-payment  thereof." 

"  Peter  White  and  his  wife,  being  presented  for  common 
swearing,  are  fined  fifty  pounds  of  tobacco,  both  of  them;  to  be 
collected  by  the  sheriff  from  the  said  White,  and,  upon  non- 
payment of  the  same,  to  distress." 

"  Richard  King,  being  presented  as  a  common  swearer,  ia 
fined  fifty  pounds  of  tobacco,  to  be  levied  by  the  sheriff,  by  way 
of  distress,  upon  hia  non-payment." 


FKOM   THE   CONNECTICUT  BliUE   I 
Yhen  these  free  states  were  nalonies 


Old  Blue  Laws  were  in  faahion. 

The  following  extracts  from  the  laws  ordained  by  the  people 
of  New  Haven,  previous  to  their  incorporation  with  the  Say- 
brook  and  Hartford  colonies,  afibrd  an  idea  of  the  strange  cha- 
racter of  their  prohibitions.  As  the  substance  only  is  ^ven  in 
the  transcription,  the  language  is  necessarily  modernized ; — 

No  quaker  or  dissenter  fioux  the  established  worahip  of  the 
■dominion  shall  be  allowed  to  ^ve  a  vote  for  the  election  of 
magistrates,  or  any  officer. 

No  food  or  lodging  shall  be  afforded  to  a  quaker,  adamite,  or 
other  heretic. 

If  any  person  turns  quaker,  he  shall  be  banished,  and  not 
suffered  to  return,  but  upon  pain  of  death. 

No  priest  shall  abide  in  the  dominion ;  he  shall  be  banished, 
and  suffer  death  on  his  return.  Priests  may  be  seized  by  any 
one  without  a  warrant. 

No  man  to  cross  a  river  but  with  an  authorized  ferryman. 

No  one  shall  run  on  the  sabbath-day,  or  walk  in  his  garden, 
or  elsewhere,  except  reverently  to  and  from  meeting. 

No  one  shall  travel,  cook  victuals,  make  beds,  sweep  house, 
cut  hair  or  stave,  on  the  sabbath-day. 


lyClOOglC 


154  I'uitiTAN  rEruLiAitiTiES, 

No  woinau  shall  kiss  her  child  on  the  sabbath  or  tasting  day. 

The  Babbath  shall  begin  at  sunset  on  Saturday. 

To  pick  an  ear  of  corn  growing  in  a  neighbor's  gardoa  sball 
be  deemed  theft. 

A  person  accused  of  trespass  in  the  night  shall  be  judged 
guilty,  unless  he  clear  himself  by  oath. 

When  it  appears  that  an  aeoused  has  confederates,  and  ho 
refuses  to  discover  them,  he  may  be  racked. 

No  one  shall  bay  or  sell  lands  without  permission  of  the 
selectmen 

A  drunkard  shall  haye  a  master  appointed  by  the  selectmen, 
who  are  to  debar  him  the  liberty  of  buying  and  selling. 

Whoever  publishes  a  lie  to  the  prejudice  of  his  neighbor, 
shall  sit  in  the  stocks  or  be  whipped  fifteen  stripes. 

No  minister  shall  keep  a  aehool. 

Men-stealers  shall  suffer  death 

Whoever  wears  olothes  tiimmed  with  gold,  silver,  or  bone 
lace,  above  two  shillings  by  the  yard  shall  be  presented  by  the 
grand  jurors,  and  the  sclei,tmen  shall  tax  the  ofiender  at  £30() 
estate. 

A  debtor  in  prison,  sweariog  he  has  no  estate,  shall  be  let 
out,  and  sold  to  make  satisftctioa 

Whoever  sets  a  fire  in  the  WDods  and  it  burns  a  house,  shall 
Buffer  death;  and  persons  suspected  of  this  crime  shall  be  im- 
priHoned  without  benefif  of  ball 

Whieiei  brings  caid'.  cr  dice  into  this  diminion  shill  pay 
a  flue  ot  £5 

No  cne  shall  read  coramoa  pi'syer,  ieep  Chnstmas  or  sunt- 
dayi  make  micced  pies,  danoe  play  cirds,  oi  play  on  any  in 
strument  of  music   eicept  the  drum   trumpet,  and  Jewi  harp 

No  c^ospel  minii-ter  shall  join  people  m  luamige ,  the  magis 
trates  only  shall  join  m  marriage  js  they  may  do  it  with  less 
soandal  to  Christ  s  church 

When  parents  refuse  their  children  convenient  marriages,  the 
magistrate  shall  determine  the  point. 

The  selectmen,  on  finding  children  ignorant,  may  take  them 


lyClOOglC 


PAEONOMASIA. 


155 


away  from  their  parents,  and  put  tliem  iuto  better  hands,  at 
the  expense  of  their  parents, 

A  man  that  strites  his  wife  shall  pay  a  fine  of  £10  j  a  woman 
that  strikes  her  husband  shall  be  punished  as  the  court  directs. 

A  wife  shall  be  deemed  good  evidence  against  her  husband. 

Married  persons  must  live  together,  or  he  imprisoned. 

No  man  shall  court  a  maid  in  person,  or  by  letter,  without 
first  ohtainin'5  consent  of  her  .parents  r  £5  penalty  for  the  first 
offence ;  £10  for  the  second ;  and  for  the  third,  imprisonment 
during  the  pleasure  of  the  court. 

Every  male  shall  hare  his  hair  cut  round  according  to  a  cap. 


paronomasia. 

Haid  is  tha  job  to  launoti  the  desporate  pun ; 
A  pun-job  dajigcrous  as  the  Indian  one. — Ho[.£ibs, 
id  langaage  are  alike  aacred.     Homioida  and  vei-lni:ide — ^t 


The  quaint  Cardan  thus  defineth  ; — "  Punning  is  an  art  of 
harmonious  jingling  upon  words,  which,  passing  in  at  the  ears 
and  faEiug  upon  the  diaphragma,  excites  a  titillary  motion  in 
those  parts;  and  this,  heicg  conveyed  by  the  animal  spirit's  into 
the  muscles  of  the  face,  raises  the  cockles  of  the  heart." 

"  He  who  would  make  a  pun  would  pick  a  pocket,"  is  the 
stereotyped  dogma  fulminated  by  laugh-lynchers  from  time  im- 
memorial; or,  as  the  Autocrat  hath  it,  "To  trifle  with  the 
vocabulary  which  is  the  vehicle  of  social  intercourse  is  to  tam- 
per with  the  currency  of  human  intelligence.  He  who  would 
violate  the  sanctities  of  bis  mother  tongue  would  invade  the  re- 
ceases  of  the  paternal  till  without  remorse,  and  repeat  the  ban- 
quet of  Saturn  without  an  indigestion."    The  "inanities  of  this 


lyClOOglC 


156  PAHONOMASIA. 

working-day  world"  cannot  perceive  any  wittiness  or  grace  in 
punniof;,  and  yet,  according  to  the  comprelie naive  definition  of 
wit  by  Dr  Barrow  the  eminent  divine  it  occupies  a  very  :,on- 
siderible  portion  ot  the  realm  of  wit  He  aaja,  '  Wit  is  a  thin^ 
BO  versalile  and  multiform,  appearing  in  "o  many  shjpea,  so 
many  postures,  so  many  garb",  so  vanonaly  apprehended  by 
several  eyes  lud  judgments,  that  it  seeraeth  no  leas  hard  to 
settle  a  clear  and  certain  notion  thereof,  than  to  make  a  por 
trait  of  Proteus,  or  to  define  the  figure  of  the  fleeting  air 
Sometimes  it  lieth  in  j>at  allusions  to  a  hnoion  'itori/,  oi  in 
seabonable  application  of  a  trivial  saj/ing,  or  in  feigning  an 
apposite  tale ;  sometimes  it  playeih  in  words  and  phrases, 
taking  advantage  of  the  ambiguity  of  their  sense,  or  ike  a£inity 
of  their  sound;  sometimes  it  is  wrapped  In  a  dress  of  humorous 
expression,  sometimes  it  lurketb  under  an  odd  similitude; 
sometimes  it  is  lodged  in  a  sly  question,  in  a  smart  answer,  in 
a  quirkish  reason,  in  a  shrewd  intimation,  in  cunningly, 
divertingly,  or  cleverly  retorting  an  objection ;  sometimes  it  is 
couched  in  a  bold  scheme  of  speech,  in  a  tart  irony,  in  a  lusty 
hyperbole,  in  a  startling  metaphor,  in  a  plausible  reconciling 
of  contradictions,  or  in  acute  nonsense;  sometimes  a  scenic  re- 
presentation of  persons  or  things,  a  counterfeit  speeoh,  a  mimic 
look  or  gesture,  paaseth  for  it.  Sometimes  an  affected  simpli- 
city, sometimes  a  presumptuous  bluntneas,  giveth  it  being. 
Sometimes  it  riseth  only  from  a  lucky  hitting  upon  what  is 
strange;  sometimes  from  a  crafty  wresting  of  obvious  matter 
to  the  purpose.  Often  it  consisteth  of  one  knows  not  what, 
and  springeth  up  one  can  hardly  tell  how.  Its  ways  are  unac- 
countable and  inexplicable,  being  answerable  to  the  numberless 
rovings  of  fancy  and  windings  of  language." 

If  this  definition  be  true,  there  is  truth  as  well  as  wit  in  the 
punster's  reply  to  the  taunt  of  the  rhetorician  that  "punning 
is  the  lowest  species  of  wit."  "Yes,"  said  he,  "for  it  Is  the 
foundation  of  all  wit."  But,  whatever  may  be  said  of  the 
praotioe  by  those  who  affect  to  despise  it,  it  has  been  much  in 
vogue  in  all  ages.     Home,  in  his  Introduction  to  ike  Critical 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA.  157 

Study  of  the  Roly  Scriptures,  tells  ua  tlat  it  was  a  very  favorite 
figure  of  rhetoric  among  the  Hebrews,  and  is  yet  common 
aiBODg  most  of  the  Oriental  nations.  Professor  Stuart,  in  his 
Hebrew  grammar,  gives  numerous  examples  of  it  in  the  Old 
Testament,  and  Winer  and  Home  point  out  others  in  the  New 
Testament,  especially  in  the  writings  of  St.  Paul.  These  can- 
not,  of  course,  be  equivalently  expressed  in  English, 

Many  of  the  Greek  authors  exhibit  a  fondness  far  tliis  I'heto- 
rical  figure,  and  some  of  the  most  excellent  puns  extant  are  to 
be  found  in  the  Greek  Anthologies.  As  a  specimen,  the  follow- 
ing is  given  from  Wesseling's  Diodorus  Sioulus  r — 

Dioscurus,  an  Egyptian  bishop,  before  he  began  the  service, 
had  the  common  custom  of  saying  cr/iiji^  Ttaitv,  (irene  pasin,) 
peace  be  to  all.  It  was  notorious  that  the  pious  churchman 
had  at  home  a  favorite  mistress,  whose  name  was  Irene,  which 
incident  produced  the  following  smart  epigram  :— 


iling 
LU'img 


At  one  time  there  was  a  general  strike  among  the  w 
men  of  Paris,  and  Theodore  Hook  gave  the  following  a 
account  of  the  affair : — "  The  bakers,  being  ambitious  to  extend 
their  rfo-mains,  declared  that  a  revoJution  wis  nreded,  and, 
though  not  exactly  Ired  up  to  arras,  soon  reduced  their  cmti/ 
masters  to  terms.  The  tailors  called  a  council  of  the  I  ard  to 
see  what  measures  should  be  token,  and,  looking  upon  the 
bakers  aa  thejlower  of  chivalry,  decided  to  follow  sail,  ihe  con 
sequenec  of  which  was,  that  a  cereous  insurrection  was  lighted 
up  among  the  candle-makers,  which,  however  i/jtA  el  it  might 
appear  in  the  eyes  of  some  persons,  developed  (id  ts  ot  eh  irac 
ter  not  unworthy  of  ancient  Greece." 


lyClOOglC 


158  PAEONOMASIA. 

Why  should  no  man  starve  on  tho  deserts  of  Arabia  ? 

Because  of  the  »and  which  is  there. 

How  came  the  aandwiohes  there  ? 

The  trihe  of  Sam,  waa  bred  there,  and  mustered. 

A  clergyman  who  had  united  in  marriage  a  couple  whose 
Christian  names  were  Benjamin  and  Annie,  on  being  asked  by 
a  mutual  friend  how  they  appeared  during  the  ceremony,  re- 
plied that  they  appeared  both  anme-mated  and  iene-fitted. 

Mr,  Manners,  who  had  but  lately  been  created  Earl  of  Rut- 
land, said  to  Sir  Thomas  More,   just  made  Lord  Chancellor, — 

"You  are  so  much  elated  with  your  preferment  that  you 
verify  the  old  proverb, — 

HoBoree  mutant  Mores.  " 

"  No,  my  lord,"  said  Sir  Thomas  :  "  the  pun  will  do  much 
better  in  English : — 

Simoni  change  Makhkrs." 

An  old  writer  said  that  when  cannons  were  introduced  as 
negotiators,  the  canons  of  the  church  were  useless;  that  the 
world  was  governed  first  by  mdtruTn,  and  then  by  nitrum, — first 
by  St.  Peter,  and  then  by  saltpetre. 

Colman,  the  dramatist,  on  being  asked  whether  he  knew 
Theodore  Hooh,    replied,  "Oh,  yes:  Hook  and  Ei/e  are  old 


Punch  says,  "the  milk  of  human  kindness  is  not  to  be 
found  Iq  the  pail  of  society."  If  so,  we  think  it  is  time  for 
all  hands  to  "  kick  the  hucket." 

Judge  Peters,  formerly  of  the  Philadelphia  Bench,  observed 
to  a  friend,  during  a  trial  that  was  goiog  on,  that  one  of  the 
witnesses  had  a  vegetable  head.  "How  so?"  was  the  inquiry, 
"  He  has  ca/rroiy  hair,  reddish  cheeks,  a  turnup  nose,  and  a 
sage  look." 

Tom  Hood,  seeing  oyer  the  shop-door  of  a  beer-vendor, — 
Bear  Sold  Here, 
Slid  it  was  spelled  right,  because  it  was  hia  own  Bruin, 


lyClOOglC 


t,h 

md 

was  served  bj 

a  green-gro- 

d 

iiy 

tied  his  bill  on 

ce  a  quarter. 

w         at  in  before  it 

was  due,  and 

d 

d 

hat  his  otedit 

was  doubted, 

tym  U  B 

.     You  have 

sent  in  your 

: 

due  B 

7.     Your  father,  the   elder 

b 

h 

gome,  Berry  j 

)ut  you  need 

rry 

f      I  1 

t  care  a  slrat 

0,  Berry,  aud 

B     y  w    Id      t  h 


sha'n't  pay  you  till  Christmas,  Berry." 

Sheridan,  being  dunned  hy  a  tailor  to  pay  at  leaat  the  interest 
on  hia  hill,  answered  that  it  was  not  his  interest  to  pay  the 
principal,  nor  his  principle  to  pay  the  interest. 

In  the  "Old  India  House"  may  still  be  seen  a  quarto  volume 
of  Interest  Tables,  on  the  fly-leaf  of  wbieh  is  written,  in  Charles 
Lamb's  round,  olerkly  hand, — 

"A  book  of  maoh  interest." — EdhibargA  Befieio. 

"A  work  in  wliiob  the  interest  never  Sage."— Quarterly  Sanea. 

"  We  maj  eaj  of  this  volume,  that  the  intiroat  increases  from  lim  begin- 


Turner,  the  painter,  was  at  a  dinner  where  several  artiste, 
amateurs,  and  literary  men  were  convened.  A  poet,  by  way 
of  being  facetious,  proposed  as  a  toast,  "  The  Painters  and 
Glaziers  of  England,."  The  toast  was  drank;  and  Turner, 
after  returning  thanks  for  it,  proposed  "Sw^cess  to  the  Paper' 
Siainers,"  and  called  on  the  poet  to  respond. 

SHORT   ROAD   TO  WEALTH. 
I'll  toll  yon  a  plan  for  gaining  wealtli, 

Better  than  banking,  trade,  or  leases,' 
Take  a  bank-note  and  fold  it  aoroea, 

And  then  you  will  find  yonr  money  m-OREiSES ! 
TMb  wonderM  plan,  without  danger  or  loss, 

Keeps  your  casli  in  your  hands,  and  with  nothing  to  trouble  it  j 
And  oyery  Ome  that  you  fold  it  across, 

'Tis  plain  as  the  light  of  the  day  that  you  consiB  it  ! 

"  I  cannot  move,"  the  pl^ntire  invalid  cries, 


lyGoogle 


160  PAEONOMASIA. 

Dr.  Johnson  Laving  freely  expressed  his  aversion  to  punning, 
Boswell  hinted  that  his  illustrious  friend's  dislike  to  this  species 
of  small  wit  might  arise  from  his  inabiKty  to  play  upon  words. 
"Sir",  roM'ed  Johnson,  "if  I  were  puniah-ed  for  every  pun  I 
shed,  there  would  not  he  left  a  puny  shed  of  my  punnish  head." 
Onee,  hy  aecidcnt,  he  made  a,  siagular  pun.  A  person  who 
affected  to  live  after  the  Greek  manner,  and  to  anoint  himself 
with  oil  was  one  day  mentioned  to  him  Johnson  in  the  course 
of  conversation  jn  the  fciiij,ulantj  of  his  practice  give  him  the 
di,noiniaation  of  thu  man  of  Gtcate 

Sydney  Smith — so  Lori  Houghton  in  his  Monographs  tells 
us — has  wiitten  deprei.iatin;;ly  of  all  playing  upon  words;  but 
hit  rapid  appiehen'fion  could  not  altogethei  exclude  a  kind  of 
wit  which  in  !ta  best  forms  tikes  fest  hold  of  the  memory, 
lesidei  the  momeutaiy  amusement  it  excites  Hia  objection 
to  the  superiority  of  a  eily  feast  I  cannot  wholly  valiie  a 

d  nner  by  the  test  you  do  {testudo),  — his  proposal  to  settle  the 
question  of  the  wood  pavement  around  St.  Paul's:  "Let  the 
Canons  onee  lay  their  heads  together  and  the  thing  will  be  done;" 
■ — his  pretty  compliment  to  his  friends,  Mrs.  Tighe  and  Mrs. 
Cuffe :  "Ah  !  there  yon  are :  the  cuff  that  every  one  would  wear, 
the  tie  that  no  one  would  loose" — may  be  cited  as  perfect  in 
their  way. 

Admiral  Duncan's  address  to  the  officers  who  came  on  board 
his  ship  for  instructions,  previous  to  the  engagement  with  Ad- 
miral de  Winter,  was  laconic  and  humorous  :  "  Gentlemen,  you 
see  a  severe  Winter  approaching ;  I  have  only  to  advise  you  to 
keep  up  a  good  fire." 

Theodore  Hook  plays  thus  on  the  same  name : — 

Here  cornea  Mr.  Winter,  inspector  of  tases; 

I  adviee  you  to  give  him  without  any  flummery. 

For  thoi^h  Ua  name's  Wintar  hia  aetiona  are  lummni-j, 

Henry  Erskine's  toaat  to  the  mine-owners  of  Lancashire : — ■ 

Sink  your  pits,  blast  your  mines,  ilnm  your  riyera,  oonaume  jonr  manu- 
faolurea,  disperse  your  oommeroe,  and  may  your  labors  be  in  vein. 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA. 


TOM    MOORE. 
When  Limerick,  in  idle  whim, 

Mooro  as  her  member  lately  coiirtea, 
'The  boja,'  for  form's  Boie,  naked  of  him 

To  atnta  what  partj  ho  aupportod. 
When  thus  his  answer  promptly  ran, 

' meod  of  glory  0 


'-""■S- 


TOP  AND   BOTTOM. 

The  following  playful  colloquy  id  verso  took  place  at  a  din- 
ler-table,  between  Sir  Goorge  Rose  and  James  Smith,  ia  alJu* 
lion  to  Craven  street,  Strand,  where  tlie  latter  resided  ; — 

J.  8.— At  Iho  top  of  my  street  the  attorneys  abound, 
And  down  at  Iha  bottom  the  bargoa  are  found ; 
Fly,  honesty,  fly  to  aome  safer  retreat. 
For  there's  cra/1  in  the  river,  and  cru/!  in  the  sljeel. 
Sir  G.  E — Why  should  bonasty  fly  to  some  safer  retreat. 
From  .attorneys,  and  barges,  od-rot  'em  ? 


OLD  JOKE   VERSIFIED. 
Says  Tom  to  BUI,  pray  tell  me,  sir, 

Why  is  it  that  iba  devil. 
In  spite  of  all  his  naughty  ways, 


Says  Bill  to  Tom,  the  ai 


Here 


Can  ne'er  be  imp  o'  liglu 

A  printer's  epitaph. 

ffl  a  /om— place  no  imposing  slo: 
To  mark  (he  head,  where  weary  it  is 

'Tis  mailer  dead .' — its  mission  being  doi 
To  be  dietribnted  to  dnst  again. 

The  bndi/'t  but  the  Ij/pe,  at  best,  of  man. 
Whose  impreti  is  the  spirit" s  deathless 


Wei-n 


le  type  i, 


brough  an  eternal  age. 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA. 

STICKY. 

I  wan 

to  seal  a  lottor,  Diok, 

Somewaipraygitetomo 

I  have  not  got  a  EJnglo  atisk 

Or  whacks  I'd  give  to  tbee 

WOMEN. 
TFhan  Efb  brought  wob  to  all  mankind. 

Old  Adam  called  bar  ico-maa; 
But  nben  she  woo'd  witb  lore  so  kind, 

He  tben  pronooaeed  bar  woo-man. 
But  now  with  folly  and  with  pride, 

Thoir  husbands'  poofcala  Irimming, 
The  Indies  are  so  fiill  of  ttSi™, 

The  poople  call  them  whim-men. 

BEN,   THE  SAItOa. 
Ele  death,  which  happened  in  his  berth, 

At  fortj  odd  bafell : 
They  went  and  laid  the  Eoxton.  and 

The  seilon  tolled  the  bell.— Hood'3  Faiihlesa 


With  whiskara  thick  upon  my  faca 

I  went  my  fair  loses ! 
She  told  mo  she  oonld  never  love 

A  bear-faeed  chap  like  me. 
I  shared  then  clean,  and  called  again. 

And  thought  my  tronblos  o'er ; 
She  laughed  outright,  and  said  I  was 

Mora  bare-faced  tlian  before ! 

0»   SHERIDAN   TO   MISS  PAYNE. 
'Tia  true  I  am  ill;  but  I  cannot  complain, 
Eor  he  never  know  pleasure  who  never  knew  Payne. 

FROM  DR.  holmes'     "MODEST  REQUEST." 
Thus  great  Achilles,  who  had  shown  bis  leaJ 

Unhappy  chief,  who,  whan  in  childhood  doused. 
Had  saved  his  dacos  had  his  foot  been  soused  I 
Aoouraed  heel,  that  killed  a  hero  stout ! 


lyClOOglC 


PAEONOMASIA. 

Death  had  not  entotefl  at  the  trifling  pan 
Tliat  still  defies  the  small  eliirurseoa'a  art 
With  florn  and  bifbiohs,— not  the  glorioua  John 
Who  wrote  the  booli  we  all  hare  pondered  on, — 
But  other  nnnioss,  bonnd  in  fleecy  baso. 
To  "PiLaRiu's  PttOGBKSs"  unrolonting  foes! 

PLAINT  OP  IHE   OLD   PAUPER. 
Some  boost  of  their  FORB-fathers — I — 

I  am,  r  thinl!,  like  Joshua, 

Tha  son  of  bone  ! 
Heedless  m  youth,  we  little  note 

Huff  quick  Umo  parses. 
For  then  flows  rub;  wine,  not  sand, 

la  OCR  glasses  1 
Rich  fliends  {most  pure  in  honor)  all  have  fied 

Sooner  or  later; 
Pshaw  !  had  they  India's  apices,  they'd  not  be 

A  nutmeg-QRATER  I 
r-re  neither  ohiok  nor  child;  aa  I  have  nothing. 


Some  few  years  back  my  spirita  and  my  youth 

Were  qui  la  omastn'; 
Brisk  as  a  pony,  or  a  lawyer's  clerk. 


Justf 

csh  from  ( 

RAl 

•SisBl 

hat  an: 
Thep 
heir  PB 
Bojoy 

I  now?  weak 
rish  found; 
NCE  keeps  me, 

the  pariati  ^ 

..■■..„,. 

and  by 

TO 

NOSE 

Knows 

Nob 
Know 

he  that  n 
y!  IhepI 

z 

00k  a  p 
Ihenee 

whioh  flows? 

!  I  am  as  fond  of  thee 


lyClOOglC 


Jg4  P  AEON  OM  ASIA. 

BOOK-IABCENY. 

Sir  Walter  Scott  said  that  some  of  bis  frieuds  \ 
iccounlanls,  but  excellent  book-Jceepers. 

How  hard,  wteo  those  who  do  not  i 


■    They  thus  complete  their  sstt  at  home. 
By  making  one  of  joa. 
I,  of  my  Speoaer  quite  ioreft, 

Last  winter  sore  wos  eliQlien  ; 
Of  Lamb  I've  but  a  quarter  loft, 

Nor  eould  I  aavo  my  Bacon. 
They  picked  my  Locko,  to  ino  for  more 

Thau  Bmmah'a  patent  wo i-th ; 
And  now  my  losses  I  deplore, 

Without  a  Ilome  on  earth. 
Even  Glovef'B  works  I  cannot  put 

My  frosen  hands  upon  ; 
Though  ever  sineo  I  lost  my  Eoote, 

My  Bunyan  has  been  gone. 
My  life  is  wasting  fast  away ; 

Isnffer  from  these  shotks; 
And  though  I've  fixed  a  look  on  Gray, 

There's  gray  upon  my  locks. 
They  still  have  made  me  alight  returns. 

And  thus  my  grief  divide; 
For  oh !  they've  cured  loe  of  my  Burns, 

And  eaaed  my  Akcnside. 
But  all  I  think  I  shall  not  say. 


THE  VEGETABLE   GIRL. 
Behind  a  market  stall  iDEtallod, 

I  mark  it  every  day, 
Stands  at  her  stand  the  forest  girl 

I've  mot  with  in  the  bay,- 


lyClOOglC 


PARONOMASIA. 


"With  sueli  o  pretty  turn-up  nose, 

AnS  lovely  reddisli  hair. 
'Tis  there  she  alaiida  from  morn  till  nigl 

And  to  appeuio  their  appetite 

She  sells  them  beans  and  peas. 
Attracted  by  the  glances  from 

The  apple  of  hor  eye, 
And  by  her  Chili  apples,  too, 

Each  passer-by  irill  buy. 
She  stands  upon  her  littlo  ffeel. 

Throughout  the  livelong  day. 
And  sella  her  celery  and  things, — 

A  big  font,  by  the  way. 

"  '  It  stock  for  change, 


Che 


And  when  she  haa 


EPITAPH   ON    AN    OLD   HORSB. 
Here  ties  a  faithful  Etcod, 


Wild  oafa  he  nover  sowed, 
maatjcatod  tama  ones  nith  much  zest; 
\rCal  he  bore  each  light  allotted  load, 

Ab  cheerfully  look  rest. 


Bright  were  bis  < 
And  in  the  main  his  tail  wn 
And  though  he  never  sfcetah 

He  showed  greal 

Lithe  were  his  li 
Fitted  alike  for  buggy  or  fo 
And  lilie  Napoleon  Iha  Gro! 

He  had  a  moHia. 

Oft  have  I  w 
His  fiivorite  stall,  well  li 
With  such  contentment  I 

And  such  a  b 


^ohod  him  grace 
ining  from  bia  face. 


lyGoogle 


PAEONOMASIA, 

With  here  and  tbere  a  epeo 
Of  roan  dirersiiying  his  broad  back, 
And,  martjr-l^ke,  ft  haltar  round  his  Ei 


hay-daj  of  hia  life  was  damped  by  death,- 

summoning  all  his  lute  remajoing  Btrengtb, 

He  drew  his^final  breath. 

QEAND   SCHEME   OF  EMIGRATIOH. 
The  Brewers  should  to  Malt-a  go, 

The  LoggBrhsadB  to  Sdllg, 
Tho  Quakers  »  the  Friendly  felet. 

The  furriers  all  to  Chili. 
The  little  squsllmg,  brawling  brate. 

That  break  our  nightly  rest. 
Should  be  packed  off  to  JBiU^-lon, 

To  £ap-iond,  or  to  Brest, 
From  ^it-head  Cooks  go  o'er  to  Greece; 

And  while  the  Miaer  wiuts 
Mis  passage  to  the  Guineu  coast, 

Spendtlirifts  are  in  the  Siraili. 
BpinBtBTS  should  to  the  Needtea  go. 

Wine-bibbers  to  Bm-gandsi 
Qourmand?  ahould  lunch  at  Sandwich  Islet 

Wags  in  tho  Boy  of  F:m-dy. 
Masiolana  haaton  to  the  S™nrf, 

Tho  aurplieed  Priest  to  Rome; 
While  still  the  race  of  Hypocrites 

At  Cant-on  are  at  home- 
Lovers  Bhoald  hasten  to  Qood  Bope  ; 


Hie,  Bachelors,  to  tho  [Tnilerf  Stoim . 

Maida,  to  tho  hU  of  Man; 
Let  Gardenera  go  to  Baimy  Bay, 

And  Sboeblaoka  to  JiipaJt 
Thus,  emigrants  and  misplaced  mei 

Will  then  no  longer  vex  na ; 
And  all  that  a'n't  provided  for 

Had  better  go  to  liscM. 


lyClOOglC 


PARONOMASIA. 


Of  PUNNING. 

Theodore  Hook  thus  cautions  young  people  to  resist  proTo- 
cation  to  the  habit  of  punning: — 

My  littla  dears,  who  learn  to  road,  praj  early  learn  to  elinn 

Tliat  vary  silly  tiling  indeed  nhieh  people  call  a  pun. 

Read  Entick's  rules,  and  'twill  be  found  how  simple  an  otfenoB 

It  is  \a  make  the  self-same  sound  afford  a  double  Eonse. 

For  instance,  ale  may  make  you  ail,  jonr  aunt  an  an'  may  kill, 

Yen  in  a  vale  may  buy  a,  vail,  and  Bill  may  pay  the  bill. 

Or  if  to  Ftanoe  your  bark  you  eteer,  at  Dover  it  may  be, 

A  peer  appear'  upon  the  piey,  who,  blind,  still  goes  to  tea. 

"it  say  when  to  a  treat  good  friends  aooept  our  ( 


e!  that  m 


o  eat,  si 


eat  theii 


although  from  ioar  prepared; 
Nor  can  the /cue/  on  which  we  Seed/ml  feeding  be  declajed. 
Thus  one  ripe  fruit  may  I  '         '  '        ' 

And  bHII  be  one,  whioh  ae 

It  therefore  should  be  all  your  aim  to«peat  with  ample  eaioi 
For  who,  howerer  fond  of  gaine,  would  choose  to  swallow  hail 
A  fat  man's  gait  may  make  ue  smUe,  who  has  no  gate  ta  close ; 
The  farmer  sitting  on  hia  slUe  no  Hijliali  pereon  knows; 


tre,  until  we  do  explain. 


LOf  9< 


ioilly  m 


irighti 


A  brnmn  man  oft  deep  read  we  see— »  blaek  a  wicked  tcighl. 

Most  wealthy  men  good  manners  have,  lioweyer  vulgar  they, 

And  actors  sHll  the  harder  slave  th6  oftener  thsy  plai/  ; 

Bo  poets  oan't  the  haiie  obtain  unless  their  tailors  choose, 

While  grooniB  and  ooachmen  not  in  Tain  each  evening  seek  the  mewe. 

The  dger  who  by  dying  lives,  a  dire  life  maintains ; 

The  glaaier,  it  is  known,  reoeives  his  projits  from  hia  panes  ,- 

By  gardeners  thgme  is  tied,  'tis  true,  when  Spring  is  in  ita  prime, 

But  lime  or  tide  won't  wait  for  you,  if  jon  ore  (.erf  for  time. 

There  now  you  see,  my  little  dears,  the  way  to  moke  a  pun ; 

A  trick  whioh  yon,  through  coming  years,  should  sedulously  shun. 

The  fault  admits  of  no  defense,  foe  wherosoe'er  'tis  found. 

Yon  aacrifiee  the  »omirf  for  sen»e,  the  sense  is  never  (ounrf. 

So  let  your  words  and  aoliona  too,  one  single  meaning  prove. 

And,  jnst  in  all  you  say  or  do,  you'll  gain  esteem  and  love ; 

In  mirth  and  play  no  harm  youll  knew,  when  duty's  task  is  done; 

But  parents  ne'er  should  let  you  go  nn/iBnished  for  apun. 

The  motto  of  the  Pilotage  Commission  of  the  river  Tyne  : — 

In  port  you  sail  us. 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA. 

SONNET 

0» 

yoath  who  died/roil  a  !HTfeii 

ffruU. 

CDrranla 

have 

oheohed  the  oarreut  of  my  blood. 

And  bar 

iesbn 

ugbt  me  to  be  buried  ber 

Pears  ha 

vepa 

Bd  off  my  body's  hardiho 

od. 

And  pin 

na  aud  plnmberg  spare  not  one 

Sain  wo 

Id  If 

ign  my  fall ;  so  fair  a  fa 

Lessens 

otfa 

e,  but  'tis  a  lesson  good ; 

Gilt  will 

notlo 

Qg  hide  guilt;  suoh  thin-washed  ware 

Wears  q 

ioklj 

and  its  rude  tonch  soon 

rued. 

Grave  on 

mjg 

and  terse. 

That  lies 

not,B 

sitliesnponmyolaj; 

But,  in  a 

genu 

Prajflal 

to  pity  a  poor  patty's  prej; 

Kehearae 

Biwa 

s  fruit-full  to  my  haarse. 

Tells  Uia 

mj 

ays  are  told,  and  soon  I'h 

toli'd  away 

Previous  to  the  battle  of  Culloden,  when  Marshal  Wade  and 
Generals  Cope  and  Hawley  were  prevented  by  the  severity  of  the 
weather  from  advancing  as  far  into  Scotland  as  they  intended, 
the  following  lines  were  oiroukted  among  their  opposers: — 

Cope  oould  not  cope,  nor  Wade  wade  through  the  snow. 
Not  Hawley  haul  his  cannon  to  the  foe. 

When  Mrs.  Norton  was  called  on  to  subscribe  to  a  fund  for 
the  relief  of  Thomas  Hood's  widow,  which  had  been  headed 
by  Sir  Robert  Peel,  she  sent  a  liberal  donation  with  these 
lines: — 

To  oheer  the  widow's  heart  in  her  distress. 
To  make  proTision  for  the  fatherlssE, 
Is  but  a  Chrisdan'a  duty,  and  none  should 
Eeaist  the  heart-appaal  of  viidaw-Hood. 

M.  Mario's  visit  to  this  country  recalls  to  mind  the  sharpest 
witticism  of  Madame  Grisi,  at  the  time  his  wife,  and  one  of 
the  beat  bits  of  repartee  on  record.  Louis  Phillippe,  passing 
through  a  room  where  Grisi  stood,  holding  two  of  her  young 
children  by  the  hand,  said  gaily :  "Ah  1  Madame,  are  those, 
then,  some  of  your  little  drisetles?"  "No,  Sire,"  was  the 
quick  reply,  perfect  in  every  requirement  of  the  pun,  "No, 
Sire,  these  are  my  little  Marionettes." 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA,  169 

A  learned  judge,  of  facetious  incmory,  is  reported  to  have 
said,  in  an  argument  in  arrest  of  the  judgment  of  death,  "I 
think  we  had  better  let  the  subjeet  drop." 
swift's  latin  pons. 

Among  the  nugx  of  Dean  Swift  are  his  celebrated  Latin 
puns,  some  of  which  are  well  known,  having  been  frequently 
copied,  and  having  never  been  excelled.  The  following  selec- 
tions will  serve  as  specimens.  They  consist  entirely  of  Latin 
words ;  but,  by  allowing  for  false  spelling,  and  running  the  worda 
into  eaeh  other,  the  sentences  make  good  sense  in  English : — ■ 

Mollis  abuti,  (Moll  is  a  beauty. 

Has  ao  aonti,  Has  im  acuto  eye, 


Molly  d. 


Meas  all)  ver  ?  Me  as  a  lorer  ?) 

In  a  subsequent  epistolary  allusion  to  this,  he  says : 


It  a  glaus  ora  eito  fer 


(IB 


Molly  o- 


As  tall  as  a  may-pole,  a  lady  so  floe ; 

A  man,  at  ^  glance  or  a  sight  of  her,  dies. 
Dear  Molly  's  a  beauty,  whose  faoe  and  whose  m 

A  kiss  o'  my  Molly  is  all  xny  delight; 

I  love  her  by  day,  and  I  love  her  by  night.) 

Extract  from  the  conmHation  of  four  physicians  o 
that  was  dying. 
1st  Doctor    Is  his  honor  sic?    Prse  isetus  felis  puis 
!S  beat  veris  loto  de. 

15 


lyClOOglC 


170  PARONOMASIA. 

2d  Doctor,  No  notis  as  qui  cassi  o  ver  fel  tu  metri  it.  Inde 
edit  is  as  fastas  an  alarum,  ora  lire  bellat  oite. 

3d  Doctor.  It  is  veri  iieil 

ilh  Doctor.  Nolo  contra  dictu  in  my  juge  luentitis  veri  loto 
de.  It  is  as  orto  maladi,  sum  oallet.  [Here  e  ver  id  octo  reti 
resto  apar  lori  na  mel  an  ooli  post  ure.] 

Isl  D.  It  is  a  me  gri  mas  I  opi  ne. 

2(f  D.  No  doeto  rite  quit  fora  quin  si.  Heris  a  plaue  sim 
tomo  fit.     Sorites  Paracelsus.     Prse  re  adit. 

ls(  D.  NoDO,  Doctor,  I  ne  ver  quo  te  aqua  casu  do. 

2t?  D.  Sum  arso;  mi  autoris  no  ne. 

Zd  D.  No  quare  Hngat  prse  senti  de  si  re.  His  honor  is  sic 
offa  colli  casure  as  I  sit  here. 

4iA  D.  It  is  aether  an  atro  phi  ora  colli  casu  sed ;  Ire  mem- 
bri  re  ad  it  in  Doctor  me  ades  esse,  Lere  it  is. 

Zd  D.  I  ne  ver  re  ad  apage  in  it,  no  re  ver  in  tendit. 

2d  D.  Fer  ne  is  bffa  qui  te  di  ferent  noti  o  naa  i  here. 

ls(  D.  It  me  bea  pluri  si;  avo  metis  veri  pro  perfor  a  man 
at  his  age. 

l9(  D.  Ib  hia  honot  siok  ?     Pray  let  ns  fesl  hie  pulse.     It  does  beat  Torj 

2d  D.  No,  no,'ti&  naq^uickaa  everl  felt^  you  may  try  it.  Indeed,  it  is  as 
fast  B.S  an  alarum,  ot  a  fire-boll  at  night 

M  D.  It  is  very  high. 

Uk  1>.  Not  to  contradict  you,  in  mj  Judgment  it  ia  very  slow  to  day.  It 
ie  a  sort  of  malady,  some  oallit.  (Here  eveiy  doetor  retires  to  a  parlor  in  a 
melancholy  posture.) 

1st  D.  It  ia  a  megrim,  as  1  opine. 

2dD.  No/dootor,  Itakeitfor  aquinay.  Here  is  a  plain  symptom  of  it. 
So  writes  Paraoelaos.     Pray  read  it. 

1st  a.  No,  no,  doolor,  I  never  quote  a  quack  as  you  do. 

3d  O.  No  quarreUing  at  present,  I  daaire.     His  honor  is  aiek  of  a  eoUe  as 

it'll,  B.  It  is  eithcran  atrophy,  or  a  colic,  as  you  said..   I  remember  I  read 
it  in  Dr.  Mead's  Essay :  here 
'id  D.  I  never  read  a  page 
2rf  B.  Perna  ia  of  a  qnita  c 
Itl  D.  It  may  be  a  plonriaj 


lyClOOglC 


PARONOMASIA. 


171 


2d  D.  Ure  par  donat  prsesauti  des  ire;  His  dis  eas  is  a  cata 
ride  elare  it. 

M  D.  Atlas  tume  findit  as  Umo,  in  his  quid  ni  es. 

Ath  D.  Itis  ale  pro  si  fora  uti  se.  Ab  lis  ter  me  bene  cessa 
risum  de  cens.     Itis  as  ore  medi  in  manicas  ea. 

M  D.  I  findit  iato  late  tot  hJno  offa  remc  di;  fori  here  His 
honor  is  de  ad. 

M  D.  His  ti  meis  cum. 

Isi!  D.  Is  it  trudo  ut  hiiic  ? 

4(ft  D.  It  is  veri  oerta  in.  His  Paris  his  belli  sto  ringo  ut 
foris  de  pajtu  re. 

3d  D.  Nse  i  fis  ecce  lens  is  de  ad  Isetus  en  dum  apn  eato 
pree  foris  sole. 

2rf  B.  yonr  pftrdon  at  present  I  desire.  Hie  disaaae  ia  aoatorrh,  I  daolaro  it. 
id  D.  At  last  jou  may  find  it  a  atone  in  hia  Mdnejs. 
ilh  n.  It  is  a  leprosy  for  aught  I  see.     A  bliatar  maj  bo  BeoeBsary  some 
dajB  henee.     It  18  a  Bura  remedy  in  many  oases. 
3rf  n.  I  find  it  iE  too  late  to  think  of  a  remedy ;  fori  iioar  his  honor  is  ijeod. 
2d  D.  HiB  time  is  oome, 
1st  D.  Ib  it  true,  do  you  think  ? 

ith  D.  It  is  very  ooftain.     His  parish  hell  ia  to  ring  out  for  hia  departure. 
3rJ  I).  Nof,  if  his  DSoellenoy'B  dead,  let  us  send  'em  a  priest  to  pray  foe 


UNCONSCIOUS   OR    UNINTENTIONAL    PUK8. 
lisabetli's  sylvan  dress  nas  therefore  well  suited 
--  ■      which  heroonaoloua 


to  her 


lc«!,  h 


e  dignity  of  lier  mein,  wh; 
of  authority  had  rendered  in  aome  dogree  too  maBOuline  to  Be  aeen  to  tne 
best  advantage  ia  ordinary /emaie  loeeda. — KeuUmarlh,  iii.  9. 
I'll  gild  the  faMB  of  the  gmomB  withal 
That  it  may  seem  their  gvill.—Masbelh. 
While  underneath  the  Bavea 

The  brooding  Bwalloma  cling, 
As  if  to  show  then-  aunny  baelCB 

And  <((rft  me  with  tho  spring. — Song  of  (hit  Shirt. 

RUSSIAN  DOUBLE    ENTENDRE. 

The  following  message  was  sent  to  ifee  Emperor  Nicholas 
h  J  one  of  his  generals ; — 


lyGoogle 


CLASSICAL  PUNS   AND   MOTTOES. 
Sydney  Smith  proposed  as  a  motto  for  Bishop  Burfress,  hro- 
ther  to  the  well-kDown  fish-sauce  purveyor,  the  following  Vir- 
gilian  pun  (JEa.  iv.  1),— 

Graoi  jamdudum  sattGia  curfU 

A  London  tohacconist,  who  had  become  wealthy,  and  deter- 
mined to  set  up  his  carriage,  applied  to  a  learned  gentleman  foe 
a  motto.     The  scholar  gave  him  the  Horatian  question, — 

gnm  rides  P 
(Why  do  you  laugh  ?— 5o(.  /,  59)— 

which  was  accordingly  adopted,  and  painted  on  the  panel. 

A  pedantic  b,aclielor  had  the  following  inscription  ou  his  tea- 
caddy  : — 

{Thou  Tea-ohbBt.) 

Epitaph  on  a  Cat,  ascribed  to  Dr.  Johnson  ("Hor.  lib.  i.,  o.  12); — 

Two  gentlemen  about  to  enter  an  unoccnpied  pew  in  a 
church,  the  foremost  found  it  locked.  His  companion,  not 
perceiving  it  at  the  moment,  inquired  why  he  retreated.  "  /*«- 
dor  vetat,"  said  he.  (Modesty  forbids.) 

A  gentleman  at  dinner  requested  a  friend  to  help  him  to  a 
potato,  which  ho  did,  saying,  "  I  think  you  will  find  that  a  good 
mealy  one."  "Thank  yon,"  quoth  the  other:  "it  could  not 
be  melior"  (better). 

A  student  of  Latin,  being  confined  to  his  room  by  illness, 
was  called  upon  by  a  friend.  "What,  John,"  said  the  visitor, 
"sick,  eh?"     "Yes,"  replied  John,  "sic  sum."  (so  I  am). 

In  King's  College  were  two  delinquents  named  respectively 
Payne  and  Culpepper.  Payne  was  expelled,  but  Culpepper 
escaped  punishment.     Upon  this,  a  wit  wrote  the  following  apt 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA. 


173 


Andrew  Borde,  author  of  the  Breviary  of  Health,  calicd 
himself  in  Latin  Andreas  Perforatus,  This  translation  of  a 
proper  name  was  according  to  the  fashion  of  the  time,  but  in 
this  instance  includes  a  pun, — perforatus,  hored  or  pierced. 

Joseph  II.,  Emperor  of  G-ermany,  during  a  visit  to  Eome, 
went  to  see  the  prineess  Santacroce,  a  young  lady  of  singular 
beauty,  who  had  an  evening  eonversaitione.  Nest  morning 
appeared  the  following  pasquinade.  "  Pasquin  asks,  '  What 
is  the  Emperor  Joseph  eome  to  Rome  for  ?'  Marforio  answers, 
'Abaciar  la  Santa  Croce'"— to  kiss  the  Holy  Cross. 

On  the  trial  of  Garnett,  the  Superior  of  the  Jesuits,  for  hia 
participation  in  the  Gunpowder  Plot,  Coke,  then  Attorney- 
General,  concluded  his  speech  than:— Qui  cum  Jesu  itis,  non 
itis  cum  Jesuilis. 

A  few  years  ago,  several  Jesuits  came  into  the  lecture-room 
of  an  Italian  professor  in  the  University  of  Pisa,  believing  he 
was  about  to  assail  a  fayorite  dogma  of  theirs.  He  commenced 
his  lecture  with  the  following  words,. — 

"  Quanti  Gosuili  bodo  all'  infomo  !" 
(How  roanj  Josulta  there  are  in  hoU  >.) 

When  remonstrated  with,  he  said  that  his  words  were — 

"  Quimti— Gesu !— Iti  EOno  all'  inferno !" 
(How  manj  people,  0  Jesue  !  there  are  in  liell !) 

D'Israeli  says  that  Bossuet  would  not  join  his  young  com- 
panions, and  flew  to  hia  solitary  tasks,  while  the  classical  boys 
avenged  themselves  by  a  schoolboy's  pun ;  applying  to  Bossuet 
Virgil's  boH  suel-us  aratro—i\G  ox  daily  toiling  in  the  plough. 

John  Randolph  of  Virginia,  and  Mr.  Dana  of  Connecticut, 
while  fellow-members  of  Congress,  belonged  to  different  po- 
litical parties.  On  one  occasion  Sir.  Dana  paid  some  hand- 
some compliments  to  Mr.  Eandolph.  When  the  latter  spoke 
in  reply,  he  quoted  from  Virgil  {Ma.  ii.)  :— 


lyClOOglC 


174  PARONOMASIA. 

A  lady  having  accident^y  thrown  down  a  Cremona  fiddle 
with  her  mantua,  Dean  Swift  instantly  remarked, — 

Ah,  Mantua,  too  cear  the  wretched  Cremona.  (Virg.  Eel.  iz.  28,) 
To  an  old  gentleman  who  had  lost  his  spectacles  one  rainy 
evening,  the  Dean  said,  "  If  this  rain  continues  all  night,  you 
will  certainly  recover  them  in  tlie  morning  betimes : 

"Nocte  plait  tota— redeunt  spectacala  maoe."  (Virgil.) 
Quid  faoiea  facies  veneris  si  reneria  ante  ? 
Ne  pereas  percas,  ne  aedens,  sedeaa. 
(What  will  JOB  do  if  jou  ahull  come  before  the  face  of  Venus  ?    Lest  jou 
ahould  perish  through  them,  do  not  sit  down,  but  go  away.) 

Sir  William  Dawes,  Archbishop  of  York,  was  very  fond  of 
a  pun.  His  clergy  dining  with  him  for  the  first  time  after  he 
had  lost  his  wife,  he  told  them  he  feared  they  did  not  find 
things  iu  so  good  order  as  they  used  to  he  in  the  time  of  poor 
Mary;  and,  looking  .extremely  sorrowful,  added  with  a  deep 
sigh,  "she  was  indeed  mare pacificum,."  A  curate  who  knew 
pretty  well  what  her  temper  had  been,  said,  "Yes,  my  lord, 
but  she  was  mare  moHuum  £rst." 

Vhat  Homer  should  a  bankrupt  be. 


i   OF   THE   ENGLISH   PEERAGE. 

iVe  viie  Faro — Disgrace  not  the  altar.    Motto  of  the  1'anes. 

Ne  vile  velis—Form  no  mean  wish.     The  Nevilles. 

Cavendo  taius — Secure  by  caution.     The  Cavendishkb. 

Forte  scutum,  solus  duowm — A  strong  shield  the  safety  of 
leaders.     Lord  Fortescub. 

Vbr  now  semper  viret — The  spring  is  not  always  green. 
Lord  Vernon. 

Vero  'nihil  verius — Nothing. truer  than  truth.     Lord  Vebe. 

Templa  quaw,  delucia — Temples  how  beloved.     Lord  Tbm- 


lyGoogle 


JETJX-DE-MOTS. 


SPIRITUAL. 


A  wag  decides — 

That  whiskey  is  the  key  by  which  many  gain  an  entrance 
into  our  prisons  and  almshouses. 

That  brandy  brands  the  noses  of  all  who  cannot  govern  llieir 
appetites. 

That  wine  causes  many  a  man  to  take  a  winding  way  home. 

That  punch  is  the  cause  of  maay  unfriendly  punches. 

That  ale  causes  many  ailings,  while  beer  brings  many  to  the 
bier. 

That  champagne  is  the  source  of  many  a  real  pain. 

That  gin-sUngs  have  "slewed"  more  than  the  sliugs  of  old. 

That  the  reputation  of  being  fond  of  cock-tails  is  not  a 
feather  in  any  man's  cap. 

That  the  money  spent  for  port  that  b  supplied  by  portly 
genfs  would  support  many  a  poor  family. 

That  porter  is  a  weak  supporter  for  those  who  are  weak  in 
body. 

AN  AGRA  M  MATIO. 

The  following  sentence  is  said  to  be  taken  from  a  volume  of 
sermons  published  during  the  reign  of  James  I, : — 

This  dial  shows  that  we  must  die  aU;  yet  notwithstanding, 
cdl  houses  are  turned  into  ale  houses;  our  cares  into  cates;  our 
paradise  into  a  pair  o'  dice;  matrimony  into  a  matter  of 
monei/,  and  m.arriage  into  a  merry  off^!  di"  divines  have  be- 
come dry  vines:  it  was  not  so  ia  the  days  of  Jfbah, — ah!  no. 


ITERATIVE. 

A  clerical  gentleman  of  Hartford,  who  c 


i  attended  the 
)  to  read  prayers,  being  politely  re- 
quested to  remain  seated  near  the  speaker  during  the  debate, 
found  himself  the  spectator  of  an  immarrying  process,  so  alien 
to  his  own  vocation,  and  so  oharaoterislio  of  the  readiness  of 


lyGoogle 


176  PARONOMASIA. 

the  Legislature  of  Connecticut  to  grant  divorces,  that  the  result 
was  the  following  impromptu  :- 


ting  all  ffDnnen(-iona  famod, 


C'lt  thoM  whom  leo 


Finn,  tho  comedian,  issued  the  following  morcoau  upon  the 
announoement  of  his  benefit  at  the  Tremont  Theatre,  Boston  : — 

Like  a  grate  full  of  coiOa  I  bnm. 


A   FAIR  LETTER. 

The  following  letter  was  received  by  a  young  lady  at  the 
post-office  of  a  Fair  held  for  the  benefit  of  a  ohureh  : — 

Fairest  of  the  Fair.  When  such /a i>  beings  as  you  have 
the  /aiV-ness  to  honor  our  Fair  with  your  fair  presence,  it  is 
perfectly  yiiiV  that  you  should  receive  good  fare  from  the  fair 
conductors  of  this  Fair,  and  indeed  it  would  be  very  un^ajV  if 
you  should  not  fare  well,  since  it  is  the  endeavor  of  those 
whose  wel-/are  depends  upon  the  success  of  this  Fair,  to  treat 
all  who  come  fair-\y,  but  to  treat  with  espocial  fair-ncaa 
those  who  are  as  fair  as  yourself.  We  are  engaged  in  a  fair 
cause,  a  sacred  war-/are;  that  is,  to  speak  without  nn-_/a»i--ness, 
a  war-_/«re,  not  against  the  fair  ses,  but  against  the  pockets 
of  their  beaux.  We  therefore  hope,  gentle  reader,  "  still  fair- 
est found  where  all  is  fair,"  that  you  will  use  all  fair  exer- 
tions in  behalf  of  the  praiseworthy  ai-fair  which  we  have  fair-\y 
undertaken.  If  you  take  sufficient  interest  in  our  wtH-fare  to 
lend  your  fair  aid,  you  will  appear  fair-tx  than  ever  in  our 
sight;  we  will  never  treat  you  un-/(ii>-ly,  and  when  you  with- 
draw the  light  of  your  fair  countenance  from  our  Fair,  we 
will  bid  you  a  kind  Fare-viaW. 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA. 

The  following  was  written  on  the  occasion  of  a  duel 
lelphia,  several  years  ago ; — 

Scbott  nml  Willing  m  engage 

In  duol  iierco  and  hot; 
Bohott  Bhot  Willing  willingly. 

And  IVming  be  shot  Sohott. 
The  stot  Sohott  shot  made  Willing  qnito 

A  apoctaolo  to  soo ; 
While  Witling's  willing  shot  went  right 

Through  Schotfs  anatomj. 

WRITE   WRITTEN  EIGHT. 
WriU  iTo  know  is  written  right, 


177 

a  Phila- 


We) 


inutn 


n  wrigh^ 
right: 


a  right. 

Must  nol  bo  written  right  or  nrigb^ 
Nor  jot  should  it  be  written  rite; 
But  wrile,  foe  ao  'tia  written  right. 

)   THE  LEFT  AS   THE   (ENGLISH)   LAW  DIEEOTS. 
Ihe  .laws  of  tho  Rood  aro  n  paradox  quite ; 
Tor  when  you  are  trui-olling  along. 


If  you  keep  lu  tb 
If  you  keep  to 


IT  you'll  bi 


lied  KUdare,  and  dare  kill  whom  I  will. 
A    Ca(ALECTIO   MONODY. 


Thou 


goffam 


cal  n: 


In  a  sronll  gs 
And  cnfaelysms  fill  her  comrades' eyea  ; 
Borne  on  the  nir,  the  ooftioouatio  song 
Swells  wilh  her  virtues'  cafalogue  niong; 
Ko  onfaplusm  could  lengthen  out  her  jeari 
Though  moarning  friends  shed  cnfuracla  o 


lyGoogle 


178  PAEONOMASIA. 

OnCD  lODd  ]Uid  strong  hor  cofachiat-like  voice, 
Itdwlndkcl  to  a  cafcoU's  squonklog  uoiaaj 
Most  cofcgoricat  bet  vittues  shgae, 

But  avile  cnlcbiwll  dog,  irith  crual  bite. 
Like  ending's  cut.  her  strength  disabled  quite; 
Iler  en/erwauling  pierced  the  heavy  air. 
As  cnlilphracts  their  arma  through  legions  bearj 
'lis  vain  I  as  cnlcrpillors  drag  avnj 
Thoir  lengths,  like  ca/tle  after  buej  day, 
Blia  lingoriug  died,  nor  left  in  kit  kal  the 
Einhodimont  of  this  calaslropbe. 

NOVEMBER, 

(Tbo  humoroua  lines  of  Hood  are  only  applicable  to  the 
Englisli  climate,  wtere  the  closing  inoath  of  autumn  ia  syno- 
nymous witii  fogs,  long  visages,  and  suicides.) 


Ho  dawn— no  dusk-no  p 

o].or  time  of  day- 

Ho  Bkj— no  ca 

No  distance  loo 

king  blue- 

Ho  roads—no  streets— no 

fotlier  side  the  way— 

NoenJloany 

No  indication 

here  the  crescents  go— 

No  lops  to  any 

No  reoognition  ef  fiiniiliar 

people— 

Ho  courtcBies  f 

Ho  knowing  'e 

Ho  IrarolleTs  at  all- no  lo 

emotion— 

Mo  inkling  of  the  way— n 

'No  go' by  land  or  ocean— 

Ho  mail— BO  p 

Ho  news  IVoin 

any  foreign  coaal— 

No   park — no  ring — no  al 

criioon  gentility— 

No  company— 

0  nobilily — 

Ho  warmth— no  cheerful  no 

aa— no  bcaltbfal  eaac- 

No  eomforttible 

reel  in  any  mcinber— 

lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA 

B  prajcrful,  B  humblo,  B  mild, 
a  Solon,  B  meek  oa  a  child; 
1,  B  thoughtful,  ii  lovins,  B  kim 
II  miike  matter  eubserricat  to  mil 
I,  B  prndont,  B  trustful,  B  truo. 


B  cbBDrfu!,  B  grutefiil,  B  hopeful,  B  lirm, 
B  pcaconil,  toievoleat,  willing  to  loam; 
B  courngeoug,  B  genUe,  B  libsnil,  E  just, 
B  n^piring,  1)  humbia,  ^auae  thou  art  dus 
B  penitent,  oircuuispect,  sound  !n  the  faith, 
'  B  QFtivo,  (Icvulcd ;  B  fdtbfnl  till  death. 
B  hooast,  B  haly,  trauspurGtii,  and  puro; 
B  dcponJoiit,  B  Christ-like,  ond  jou'U  B  Be 

THE   BEES   OS   THE  BIBLE. 
Bo  kindly  affeetioned  one  to  another. 


0  the  ■ 


:luthcd  irith  hi 


iiiag  of  tbs  Lord. 


j  "re's." 

Dr.  Franlslio,  in  England  in  the  year  1775,  was  asked  by  a 
ooblonian  what  would  satisfy  the  Americans.      lie  answered 
that  it  might  easily  bo  comprised  Iq  a  few  "He's,"  whicb  he 
immediately  wrote  on  a  piece  of  paper,  thus ; — 
Ro-oall  your  forces. 
Re-sloro  Cos tlo  William. 
Ro-pair  Iho  damago  done  to  Boston. 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA. 


After  this — 

BB-quiro,  nnd 

Re-ceii'o  pnjmant  for  tlie  deBtroyod  tea,  witt  tto  voluntnrj  graii 


Ee-conoiliatioQ. 

THE   MISS-NOMERS. 
After  rtc  montisro/HorocB  SimA'i  "S«ruaiiiM  eos 
Miss  Brawn  is  esooediagly  fair, 

MiEa  Wbito  is  n,s  brawa  aa  n  berry ; 
Mlaa  Black  has  a  gtny  hoad  of  tair. 


And  Misa  Solomon  ia  a  aad  ninny ! 
Miaa  Mildmoy'a  a  torrible  acold, 

Mia?  Dovo'a  ovar  oroaa  and  contrary; 
Misa  Young  ia  now  grown  Tcry  old, 

And  Miaa  IIoftvysido'B  light  na  a  fairyl 
Miaa  Short  ia  at  least  flvo  feet  ten, 


M 

ss  Nobl 

aof  hu 

inWec. 

Iraction ; 

Miaa 

a  a  hiitrod  \>m 

ards  men. 

IViiilil  Mi 

s  Still  la  Ibroy 

r  in  action. 

Miss 

Green  1 

arogu 

ar  ifiie 

M 

Bs  Senrlet  looks 

palen 

a.  lily; 

Miss 

e'er  slir 

Ilk!  ft 

m  our  view 

And  Misa 

Visamnn 

ail  tbe  mo 

Miss 

Geodcl 

Id'a  a  n 

Uglily  young  elf. 

M 

aa  Lyon 

8  from  t 

iTe'™ 

fool; 

Miss 

Mee'an 

,d/. 

M 

aaCwp 

ntar  no 

rule. 

Miaa 

tSadler 

lo'er  mo 

Dted  aborse, 

While  Mia 

Groom 

from  tie  alable  w 

Mis 

Kilmor. 

ok  on 

A 

dMisa 

Almwoll 

ne'er 

evolkdag 

Mia 

Orciuth 

ndbos 

obrid 

a  at  all, 

M 

well  ia 

verco 

oiplalning; 

Over  hearts  Misa  Fiunveathar  likes  reiyningt 
iiasWrigbt,  she  is  constantly  wrong, 

Miss  Tiebell,  oJna }  is  not  ftinny ; 
:iaa  Singer  ne'er  warbled  a  aong, 

And  alas !  poor  Misa  Cash  has  no  mono? ; 


lyGoogle 


PARONOMASIA. 

Miss  UfttcmnQ  wovaj  gi™  all  she's  worth. 

To  purchnse  a  mnn  to  her  liking  ; 
Miss  Merry  is  shocked  at  iiU  mirth, 

BfisB  BojLor  tbe  men  don't  find  slnl.-ii}gl 
Uisa  Bliss  docs  with  sorrow  o'orflon, 

Miss  Hope  in  dospuir  socks  the  tumb; 
Miss  Joy  still  nntioipates  wo, 

And  Miss  Charity's  nevor  "nthomal" 
Miss  tlomlot  resides  in  the  city, 

Tho  nerves  of  Miss  Standfast  are  shaken; 
Miss  Pretlymim's  benn  Is  not  pretty, 

And  Miss  FnUhfUl  ha  lave  has  forsalten  I 
Miss  Parlor  despises  all  froth, 

Miss  ScaJcs  they'll  make  icmf,  I  am  thinkinf 
Misi  Meekly  is  npt  lo  be  wroth, 

Miss  Lofty  to  meanness  is  sinking; 
Miss  Scymoro'fl  as  blind  as  a  bat, 

Miss  Lust  at  a  party  is  first ; 
Miss  Brindto  dislikes  a  striped  cat, 

And  Miss  Waters  has  always  a  thirst  I 
Miss  Knight  is  new  changed  into  Day, 

Miss  Day  mants  to  marry  n  Knight; 
Uisa  Prudence  has  just  run  away. 

And  Miss  Steady  assisted  her  flight; 
But  saeecss  lo  the  fair,— ono  and  all! 


rehcns 


Though  w 


naking;- 


■oall, 


>   COINCIDENCES. 

A  pamphlet  published  in  the  year  1703  has  the  following 
strange  title:  "Tho  Bc/vrmit^  of  Sin  cured;  a  Sermon 
preached  at  St.  Michael's,  Orooked-lime,  hefore  the  Prince  of 
Orange,  hy  tho  Rev.  J.  Crookshanks.  Sold  by  Matthew 
Denton,  at  the  Crooked  Billot  near  CVyipZe-gate,  and  by  all 
-other  booksellers."  The  words  of  the  test  are,  "Every 
crooJced  path  shall  he  made  straight;"  and  the  pricoe  before 
whom  it  was  preached  was  deformed  ia  person. 


I  HE  COUHT-FOOI. 
Great  praise  to  < 


PUN   ON   AUCHBISHOP  LAUD. 
od,  and  Ultle  Laad  to  the  doril. 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH   WOKDS  AND  FORMS   OF 


SBngUst)  212aoriis  anii  J^orms  of  iSipression, 

Dictionary  English  is  somethiag  very  different  not  only 
fiom  common  colloquial  English,  but  even  from  that  of  ordinary 
written  composition.  Instead  of  ahout  forty  thousand  words, 
there  is  probably  no  single  author  in  the  language  from  whose 
works,  however  voluminous^  so  many  as  ten  thousand  words 
could  be  collected.  Of  the  forty  thousand  words  there  are 
cortainly  many  more  than  one-half  that  are  only  employed,  if 
they  are  ever  employed  at  all,  on  the  rarest  occasions.  We  should 
be  surprised  to  find,  if  we  counted  them,  with  how  small  a 
number  of  words  we  manage  to  express  all  that  we  have  to  say, 
either  with  our  lips  or  with  the  pen.  Our  common  literary 
English  probably  hardly  amounts  to  tea  thousand  words ;  our 
common  spokea  English  hardly  to  five  thousand. 

Odd  words  are  to  be  found  in  the  dictionaries.  Why  they  are 
kept  there  no  one  knows ;  but  what  man  in  his  senses  would  use 
such  words  as  zythepsary  for  a  brewhoase,  and  zymologist  for  a 
brewer ;  would  talk  of  a  stormy  day  as  procelloas  and  himself  as 
madefied ;  of  his  long-le^ed  son  as  increasing  in  procerily  but 
sadly  marcid ;  of  having  m^  with  such  procacity  from  such  a 
one;  of  a  bore  as  a  macrologiat;  of  an  aged  horse  as  macrobi- 
otic ;  of  important  business  as  moliminous,  and  his  daughter's 
necklace  as  moniliform ;  of  some  one's  talk  as  meracious,  and 
lament  his  last  night's  nqniety  of  wine  at  that  dapatical  feast, 
whence  he  was  taken  by  ereptionf  Open  the  dictionary  at  any 
page,  and  you  will  find  a  host  of  these  words. 

By  a  too  ready  adoption  of  foreign  words  into  the  ctorency  of 
the  English  language,  we  are  in  danger  of  losing  much  of  its 
radical  strength  and  historical  significance.  Marsh  has  compared 
the  parable  of  the  man  who  built  liis  house  upon  the  sand,  as 
given  by  Matthew  and  Luke.  Matthew  uses  the  plain  Saxen 
English.     The  learned  Evangelist,  Luke,  employed  a  Latinized 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH    WOIIIIS  AND   lORMS   OF   EXPRESSION. 


183 


dictionary.  "Now,"  he  says,  ''compare  the  two  passages  and 
saj  which  to  every  English  ear,  is  the  most  impressive: " 

"  And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  iooda  came,  and  the  winds 
blew,  and  heat  upon  that  hoose,  and  it  fell,  and  great  was  the  fell 
of  it." — Matthew. 

"Against  which  the  stream  did  beat  vehemently,  and  imme- 
diately it  fell;  and  the  ruin  of  that  house  was  gi-cat."— iu/ce. 

There  can  scarcely  be  a  difference  of  opinion  as.  to  the 
relative  force  and  beauty  of  the  two  versions,  and  consequently 
we  find,  that  while  that  of  Matthew  has  become  proverbial,  the 
narrative  of  Luke  is  seldom  or  never  quoted. 

Trench  says  that  the  Anglo-Saxon  is  not  so  much  one  ele- 
ment of  the  English  language,  as  the  foundation  of  it— the  basis. 
All  its  joinfB,  ita  whole  articulation,  its  sinews  and  its  ligaments, 
the  great  body  of  articles,  pronouns,  conjunctions,  prepositions, 
numerals,  auxiliM;y  verbs,  all  smaller  words  which  serve  to  knit 
together  and  bind  the  lai^er  into  sentences,  these — not  to  speak 
of  the  grmnmatical  structure  of  the  language — are  exclusively 
Sason.  The  Latin  may  contribute  its  tale  of  bricks,  yea,  of 
goodly  and  polished  hewn  stones  to  the  spiritual  building,  but 
the  mortar,  with  aH  that  holds  and  binds  these  together,  and 
uonstitutes  them  into  a  house,  is  Sason  throughout."  As  proof 
positive  of  the  soundness  of  the  above  aifirmatlon,  the  test  is 
submitted  that — "  you  can  write  a  sentence  without  Latin,  tut 
yon  cannot  without  Sason."  The  words  of  the  Lord's  Prayer 
are  almost  all  Saxon.  Our  good  old  fiunily  Bible  is  a  capital 
standard  of  it,  and  has  done  more  than  any  other  book  for  the 
conservation  of  the  purity  of  onr  language.  Our  best  writers, 
particularly  those  of  Queen  Anne's  time, — Addison,  Steele, 
Swift,  &c., — were  distmguKhcd  by  their  use  of  simple  Sason. 


SOURCES   or  THE   LANGUAGE. 


Some  years  ago,  a  gentleman,  after  carefully  examining  the 
folio  edition  of  Johnson's  Dictionary,  formed  the  following  table 
of  English  words  derived  from  other  languages  : — 


lyClOOglC 


WORDS   AND    FORMS  OP    EXPRESSION. 


Dutch 

lUliaa 

8B1 

311 

Welsh 

Danbh 

95 

7S 

loelandiQ... 

Swediat 


Teuton  it 

Irish.,'" 
Runio.. ., 
Flemish 
Erse. 


Irish  BndBraa 2 

Turkish 2 

Iriih  und  Scottish....! 

Peramn !!'.'.'.'"!."."[ 

Friai i 

Persio ,...! 

Uncert^n 1 

Total 16,784 


NOUNS  OF 

A  foreigner  looking  at  a  picture  of  a  number  of  vessels,  said, 
"  See  what  a  Book  of  ships."  He  was  told  that  a  flock  of  ships 
was  called  a  fleet,  and  that  a  fleet  of  sheep  was  called  a  flock. 
And  it  was  added,  for  his  guidance,  in  maatering  the  intricacies 
of  oar  language,  that  a  flock  of  ^rls  is  called  a  bevy,  that  a 
bevy  of  wolves  is  called  a  pack,  and  a  pack  of  thieves  is  called 
a  gang,  and  that  a  gang  of  angels  is  called  a  host,  and  that  a 
host  of  porpoises  is  called  a  shoal,  and  a  shoal  of  haflaloes  is 
called  a  herd,  and  a  herd  of  children  is  called  a  troop,  and  a 
troop  of  partridges  is  called  a  covey,  aud  a  covey  of  beauties  is 
called  a  galaxy,  and  a  galaxy  of  ruffians  is  called  a  horde,  and  a 
horde  of  rubbish  is  called  a  heap,  and  a  heap  of  oxen  is  called,  a 
drove,  and  a  drove  of  blackguards  is  called  a  mob,  and  a  mob 
of  whales  is  called  a  school,  and  a  school  of  worshippers  is  called 
a  congregation,  and  a  congregation  of  engineers  is  called  a  corps, 
and  a  corps  of  robbers  is  called  a  band,  and  a  band  of  locusts  ia 
called  a  swarm,  and  a  swarm  of  people  is  ca,lled  a  crowd. 


DISRAELIAN    ENGLISH. 

Mr.  Disraeli  gives  us  some  queer  English  in  his  novel  of 
Lothair,  as  may  be  seen  in  the  following  examples : — "  He 
guarded  over  Lothair's  vast  inheritance;"  "Lothair  observed 
on"  a  lady's  singing;  "of  simple  but  distinguished  mien,  with  a 
countenance  natarally  pale,  though  somewhat  bronzed  by  a  life 
of  air  and  esei-cise,  and  a  profusion  of  dark,  auburn  hairj"  "he 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH   WORDS   AND   FORMS   OF   EXPRESSION.        185 

engaged  a  vehicle  aud  ordered  to  be  driven  to  Leicester  Square;" 
"he  pointed  to  an  iadividual  seated  in  the  centre  of  the  table;" 
"  their  mutual  ancestors ; "  "  Is  there  anything  in  the  Tenehrce 
why  I  onglit  not  to  be  present?";  "thoughts  whu-k  made  hfm 
unconscious  how  long  had  elapsed ; "  "  with  no  companions  than 
the  wounded  near  them;"  "The  surgeon  was  sitting  by  her 
side,  occasionally  wiping  the  slight  foam  from  her  brow."  We 
have  heard  of  people  foaming  at  the  month,  but  never  before  of 
a  kdy  foaming  at  the  brow, 

"ye"  for  "the." 
Ye  ia  eomenmes  used  for  (Ae  in  old  books  wherein  the  is 
the  more  usual  form,  on  account  of  the  difficulties  experienced 
by  the  printere  in  "  spacing  out."  When  pressed  for  room  they 
put  ^e;  when  they  had  plenty  of  room  they  put  the.  Many- 
people  in  reading  old  books  pronounce  the  abbreviation  i/e.  But 
the  proper  pronunciation  is  the,  for  the  1/  is  only  a  corruption 
of  the  oJd  thorn-letter,  or  symbol  for  iJt. 


His  is  the  genitive  (or  as  we  say,  possessive)  of  he,  (Ms, — 
his,)  and  it  or  hit,  as  it  was  long  written,  is  the  neuter  of  he, 
the  final  t  being  the  sign  of  the  neuter.  The  introduclion  of 
its,  aa  the  neuter  genitive  instead  of  his,  arose  from  a  mis- 
conception, similar  to  that  which  would  have  arisen  had  the 
Eomans  introduced  illudms  as  the  neuter  genitive  of  ille,  instead 
of  illius.  M  very  rarely  occurs  in  our  authorized  version  of  the 
Bible,  his  or  her  being  used  instead — occurs  but  a  few  times  in 
all  Shakspeare — was  unknown  to  Ben  Jonson — was  not  admitted 
into  his  poems  by  Miltfln — and  did  not  come  into  coinmoa  use 
until  sanctioned  by  Bryden. 

THAT. 

The  use  of  the  word  That  in  tbo  following  esamples  is 
strictly  in  accordance  with  grammatical  rules: — 


lyGoogle 


186         EMGLISH    WORDS   AND    I'OKMS   OP   EXPBEeSION, 

The  gentleman  said,  in  speaking  of  tte  word  that,  iftai 
that  (hat  that  lady  parsed,  was  not  that  that  that  that  gf-"' 
requested  her  to  analjsie. 

How,  (Sal  is  a  word  that  may  often  be  joined, 
For  that  thai  may  be  doubled  is  olcar  tu  the  mind ; 
And  that  iJtat  thai  is  right,  13  as  plain  to  the  view. 
As  that  that  that  that  WB  use,  ia  rightly  used  too. 
And  thai  that  that  that  Ihal  line  has  in  it,  ia  right- 
In  aoeordanoe  with  grammar— is  plain  in  our  sight 


A  gentleman  who  was  in  the  habit  of  interlarding  his  dis- 
course with  the  eipresdott  "  I  say,"  having  been  informed  by  a 
friend  that  a  certain  individual  had  made  some  ill-natured  re- 
marks upon  this  peculiarity,  took  the  opportunity  of  addressing 
him  in  the  following  amusing  style  of  rebuke: — "I  say,  sir,. I 
hear  say  you  say  I  say  'I  say'  at  every  word  I  say.  Now,  sir, 
although  I  know  I  say  'I  say'  at  every  word  I  say,  still  I  say, 
sir,  it  is  not  for  you  to  Bay  I  say  'I  say'  at  every  word  I  say," 

PATH-OLO«¥. 

There  otice  resided  in  Ayrshire  a  man  who,  hke  Lemau,  pro- 
posed to  write  an  Etymological  Dictionary  of  the  English  lan- 
guage. Being  asked  what  he  understood  the  word  paiholog;^ 
to  meau,  he  answered,  with  great  readiness  and  confidence, 
"Why,  the  art  of  road-making,  to  be  sure." 

THE   PEONUNCIATION   01    OUQH. 

The  difficulty  of  applying  rules  to  the  pronunciation  of  our 
language  may  be  illustrated  in  two  lines,  ,where  the  combination 
of  the  Jettera  ough  is  pronounced  in  no  less  than  seven  different 
ways,  viz.:  as  o,vf,  off,  up,  ow,  oo,  and  ock:— 


lyClOOglC 


ENGLISH    W0BD3   AND    FOEMS  OF   EXPKESSION.        1 

The  followiBg  attempts  to  show  the  sound  of  ough,  finalj  i 
ngenious : — 

Though  from  rough  congh  or  hiccough  fcce, 


'Tia  not  on  eaay  task  to  show. 
How  0,  u,  g,  b,  aouudj  eiace  Ihoughf 
An  Irish  lough,  an  English  slough. 
And  eough,  und  U^sauyh,  all  allow 

ThoTB  eeems  no  roaaon  why  they  do. 


"Haabaud,"  saja  Joan,  "'tia  plain  < 

That  Eoger  luves  our  daughier; 

And  Betty  loves  bim  too,  although 

She  liaatB  his  suit  with  laughter. 

"For  Roger  always  hems  and  aougha. 
While  on  the  field  ho's  ploughing; 
Then  strives  to  aee  between  the  buugha 
IE  Betty  heeds  his  oonghing. 


mgh 


The  following  jeu  d^esprit,  entitled  "A  Literary  Squabble 
on  the  pronuDciation  of  Monckton  Milnes'a  Title,"  is  stated 
to  have  been  the  produobion  of  Lord  Palmerston : — 


The  Alphabet  rejoiced  to  bear. 
That  Monckton  Milnes  was  made  i 
For  in  the  present  world  of  lettera, 
But  few,  if  any,  were  his  betters. 


L  addro] 


ited,  of  eongratulation. 
4nd  0  U  Q  H  T  and  H 
iVero  ohosen  to  take  up  the  pen, 
PosaesBing  each  on  Interest  vital 


,  apellini 


Perfect  in  grammar  and  in 

But  when  'twas  read  aloud— oh,  meroy! 

There  sprung  up  such  a  oontroversy 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH   WOaDS   AND   FOKiMS   01'   EXPRESSION, 


titled  t 

hp 

heard. 

The  Bonsona 

nta  denied  the  olaim, 

Insisting  that  they 

beoaine. 

Johnson  and  Walke 

r=  applied  to. 

ShDriian,  B 

iley,  W 

bal* 

r,  tried  too; 

But  ail  in  V 

in— for 

«ii<i 

piciied  out 

,A  word  that  left  the 

in  doQht 

0,  looking  r 

undup 

n  them  all. 

Cried,  "If  i 

be  oorr 

o  call 

T  H  R  0  D  G  H  (Ar 

HOUGH 

mu9t  bo 

Ho 

bo 

no-dispnteon 

The  qaestio 

,w6ah 

uld 

Bay  Lord  Haolon.' 

then  did  spcnk,  and  Bought  to  show 
6  should  be  doubled,  and  not  0, 
or  saro  if  ought  and  aM,  then  nought  on 
arth  eoald  the  title  be  but  Hawtan. 


In  cough  and  tiwgh,  stood  n 

:tttoG, 

And  like  an  E  waa  then  look 

d  oft  on. 

Wbtoh  made  him  think  it  sh 

uld  be  Ho/toH. 

Attention  other  oaeea  to  ; 

Lu«sh,  Eotigh  and  Chough,  tn 

ore  than  enoug 

To  prore  0  U  G  H  spelled  „/, 

And  growled  out  in  a  sort  of 

gruff  tnne 

They  must  prononnoe  the  title  H-ifiov. 

HsaidemphationllyNo; 

For  D  0  U  S  H  is  D„h, 

And  though  {look  there  agai 

)  that  stuff 

At  sea  for  fan,  they  niclinam 

Duf, 

He  should  propose  they  took 

a  Tote  on 

The  ciUBation  ahonld  it  not  b 

Hoion  ? 

Besides,  in  French  'twould  hale  sucb  fon 
A  Lord  must  be  hunt  ton,  of  course. 
High  and  more  high  contention  rose. 
From  words  they  almost  earn©  to  blows. 
Till  B,  as  yet,  who  had  not  spoke, 
And  deariy  Inved  a  little  joke, 
Pat  in  hit  word,  and  said,  "  Look  here, 
Plfiigh  in  this  row  must  have  a  nhaie." 
At  l^is  atrocious  pun,  eaoh  page 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH    WOarS   AND    E 


B   OP  EXPRESSION.        189 


Of  Johnaon  wliil«r  gren  vfith  rage. 
Bailey  looked  desperuUly  out  up. 
And  Sheridan  oompletalj  ahut  up. 
Webster,  who  ie  no  idle  talker, 
Made  a  sign  signifying  Wnlksr.  , 
While  Walker,  who  had  been  used  hadlj, 
Shook  his  old  dirty  dog-eare  aadly. 


■e  find  ir 


A  joke,  made  happily  in 
However  poor,  will  often  tend 
The  hottest  argument  to  end, 
And  smother  anger  in  a  laugh. 
So  S  succeeded  with  his  chof, 

it  did,  some  wheat. 


In  ealming  this 
Aathoritiea  wer 
And  S  there  wa 
PL  0  U  GHb 


eat. 


alloc 


Balled  ei 


Andm 

Would  dream  of  saying  "Speed  the  Pluf." 

So  they  considered  it  was  wise 

With  S  to  mafee  a  oompromise. 

To  UsTo  HI  loop  to  hang  a  douht  on 

By  e'viug'three  cheers  for  Lord  Houghton  (Hoio 


The  foUowing  curious  document  gives  tbe. opinion  of  IJord 
Mansfield,  wten  Attorney-General,  upon  Dr,  Johnson's  defini- 
tion of  the  word  Excise :  — 

Case. 

Mr.  Samuel  Johnson  has  lately  published  a  book,  entitled  A 
Dictionary  of  the  EiigKih  Langvage,  m  which  the  words  are 
deduced  frmn.  their  origimda,  and  illustrated  in  their  different 
significations  li/  examples  from  the  best  writers.  To  which  are 
prefixed  a  history  of  the  Language,  and  an  English  grammar. 

Under  the  title  "Excise"  are  the  followii^  words: — 

BKOiaa,  n.  a,  (Mctja  Butch ;  etcmmt,  Lalln,|  a  hatefnl  lax  Ievi«l  upon  commoflitifa 
and  adjnflged  not  by  the  conuooii  judges  of  property,  but  m-elcha  hired  bj  those  to 


lyGoogle 


BKGLISM  WORDS  AND   FOKMS  OP   EXPRESSION. 


Can  hire  Inrj^e  houses  and  oppress  tlie  poor 
By  fatmed  Bsoiae.— Dhyden,  Juvenal,  Sal.  3. 

The  autlior'a  definition  being  observed  by  the  Commissioncra 
of  Eseiae,  they  desire  the  fiivor  of  your  opinion ; 

Qu. — Whether  it  will  not  be  considered  as  a  hbei;  and,  if 
BO,  whether  it  is  not  proper  to  proceed  against  the  author,  print- 
i  puhlishers  thereof,  or  any  and  which  of  them,  by  in- 
n  or  how  otherwise? 

Opimo^. 

I  am  of  opinion  that  it  is  a  lihel ;  but,  under  all  the  eireum- 

stances,  1  should  think  it  better  to  give  him  an  opportEnity  of 

altering  his  definition ;  and,  in  ease  he  don't,  threaten  him  with 


a  information. 
29tii  Nov.  1!55. 


W.  MUERAY. 


Mr.  Longfellow,  in  his  Golden  Legend,  thus  refers  to  the 
derivation  of  this  word  from  j>07is  (a  bridge)  &aA /acere  (to 
make) : — 

Wei!  haa  the  name  of  Pontifes  been  given 
Unto  the  Church's  head,  as  the  ohief  builder 
And  arohiteot  of  the  invisible  bridge 
That  leads  iiom  eiitth  to  heavea. 

ROUGH. 

Mr.  Motley,  in  his  Hutm-y  of  the  United  Netherlands,  IV. 

138,  thtis  ascribes  the  use  of  this  word  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  of 


lyClOOglC 


ENGLISH   WORDS   AND    FORMS   OF    EXPRESSION.         191 

Tbe  great  quean,  moody,  despairing,  dying,  wrapt  in  profoundeat 
thouglit,  with  ayes  fiscd  upon  the  ground  or  airoadj  gazing  into  infinity 

chose  that  the  crown  should  devolve. 

"  Not  to  a.  Rough,"  Eaid  filisabeth,  Beatuntiously  and  grimly. 

These  particulars  are  apparently  given  on  the  authority  of 
the  Italian  Secretary,  Scaramelli,  whose  language  is  quoted  in  a 
fi>ot-note,  and  who  says  that  the  word  Rough  "  in  lingua  inglese 
^nifica  persona  basaa  e  vile." 

Charles  Dickens  said,  "  I  entertain  so  strong  an  objectioti  to 
the  euphonious  softating  of  rvjian  into  Tovgh,  which  has  lately 
become  popular,  that  I  reetore  the  right  word  to  the  heading  of 
this  paper."  (^Ae  Ruffian,  hy  the  Uncommercial  Traveler,  All 
the  Year  Round.)  "  Lately  popular"  does  not.  mean  popular  for 
two  hundred  and  eighty  years  past,  A  word  that  has  escaped 
the  notice  of  the  Glossarists  cannot  have  been  in  use  early  in 
the  seventeenth  century.  That  it  should  have  'been  used  in  its 
modern  sense  hy  Queen  Elizabeth,  passes  all  hounds  of  bellefi 
With  all  her  faults  she  did  not  make  silly  aunieaning  remarks; 
and  it  would  have  been  extremely  silly  in  her  to  say  she  did  not 
wish  a  low  ruffian  to  succeed  her  on  the  throne.  If  she  uttered 
a  word  havii^  the  same  sound,  it  might  possibly  have  been  ruff. 
The  "ruff,"  though  worn  by  men  of  the  upper  ckss,  was  in 
Queen  Elizabeth's  time  an  especially  female  article  of  dress,  and 
I  will  have  no  ruff  ix>  succeed  me," 
bit  say,  "I  will  have  no  petticoat 
government."  We  want  better  authority  than  that  of  Scara- 
melli before  we  can  believe  that  Ehzabeth  used  either  the  word 
roagh  or  ruf,  when  consulted  as  to  her  wishes  respecting  her 


the  queen 

just  as  now-a-days  one 


NOT  AMERICANISMS. 


In  Bartlett's  Dictionary  the  term  "  stocHng-feet"  is  given  as 
an  Americanism.  Kut  the  following  quotation  from  Thackeray's 
Newcomes  (vol.  i,  ch.  viii,)  shows  that  this  is  an  error: — 


lyClOOglC 


192         ENGLISH   W0KD5  AND  FORMS   OF   EXPRESSION. 

"  Binnie  found  the  Colonel  in  his  sitting-room  arrajed  in  what  are  oalled 
in  Sontlttnd  bis  stuokiog-feet." 

Professor  Tyndall,  at  the  ferewell  banqnet  ^ven  in  hig  honor 
by  the  citizens  of  New  York,  prior  to  his  departure,  in  referring 
to  his  successful  lecture-course  in  the  United  States,  said  he  had 
hkl — to  quote  his  words — "  what  you  Americans  call  '  a  good 

But  this  expression  is  not  an  Americanism.  It  is  used  by 
Dean  Swift  in  his  letter  to  SteUa,  (Feb.  24, 1710-1 1) ;  "  I  hope 
Mrs.  Wells  hod  a  good  time." 

That  not  very  elegant  adjective  hiiUy,  though  found  in  Bart- 
lett,  and  used  by  Washington  Irving  cannot  be  claimed  as  an 
AmericMiism.     Friar  Tuck  sings,  in  Scott's  luanhoe: — 

Come  troll  the  brown  bowl  to  me." 

But  to  go  further  back,  we  find  it  in  the  burden  of  an  old 
three-part  song,  "  We  be  three  poor  Mariners,"  in  Kavenscroft's 
Devteromelia,  1609: 

"  Shall  ne  go  danoe  the  toaai,  the  round, 
Shall  we  go  dance  the  round; 
^nd  he  that  is  a  bully  boy, 
Come  pledge  mo  on  the  ground." 

One  of  the  words  which  the  English  used  to  class  amoi^ 
Americanisms — -ignorant  that  it  was  older  and  better  English 
than  their  own  usage — was  Fall,  used  as  the  name  of  the  third 
of  the  seasons.  The  EngUsh,  corrupted  by  the  Johnsonese  of 
the  Hanoverian  re^ns,  call  it  by  the  Latinism,  Autumn.  But 
the  other  term,  in  general  use  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic,  is  the 
word  by  which  all  the  old  writers  of  the  language  know  it. 
"  The  hole  yere,"  says  scholarly  Eoger  Ascham  in  his  Toxo- 
pMlus,  "is  divided  into  iiii.  partes,  Spring  (yme,  Sommer,  Faule 
of  the  leafe,  &  Winter,  whereof  the  hole  winter  for  the  rough- 
nesae  of  it,  is  cleane  taken  away  from  shoring :  except  it  be  one 
day  amoi^es  xx.,  or  one  yeare  amongra  xi." 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH   WORDS   i 


'    EXPKESSION. 


193 


This  statement,  by  the  way,  that  exceptionally  mild  winters 
were  in  the  ratio  of  odd  to  eleven,  is  worth  noting  with 
refereace  to  the  recent  announcement  of  science  that  the  spots 
on  the  aim  iiave  an  elevea-year  period  of  maximum  frequency. 

NO   LOVE  LOST  BETWEEN   THEM. 

In  the  ordinary  acceptation  of  the  words,  "  No  love  was  lost 
between  the  two,"  we  are  led  to  infer  that  the  two  were  on 
very  unfriendly  terms.  But  in  the  ballad  of  The,  Babes  in  the 
Wood,  as  given  in  Percy's  ReUgues,  occur  the  following  lines, 
wliich  convey  the  contrary  idea : — 

Ho  love  between  this  two  was  lost, 

Baoli  was  to  other  kind: 
Ib  love  thej  lived,  in  love  they  died. 

And  left  two  babes  behind. 


THE  FORLORN    HOPE. 

Military  and  civil  writers  of  the  present  day  seem  quite  ignorant 
of  the  true  meaning  of  the  words  forlorn  hope.  The  adjective 
has  nothing  to  do  with  despair,  nor  the  substantive  with  the 
"charmer  which  lingers  still  behind;"  there  was  no  such  poetical 
depth  in  the  words  as  or^inally  used.  Every  corps  marching 
in  an  enemy's  country  had  a  email  body  of  men  at  the  head 
(kaupt  or  hope)  of  the  advanced  guard ;  and  which  wM  termed 
the  forlome  hope  (lorn  being  here  but  a  termination  similar  to 
toard  in  fofward,)  while  another  small  body  at  the  head  of 
the  read-guard  was  called  the  rei-e-lom  hope.  A  reference  to 
Johnson's  Dictionary  shows  that  civilians  were  misled  as  early 
as  the  time  of  Dryden  by  the  mere  sound  of  a  technical  military 
phrase;  and,  in  process  of  time,  even  military  men  foi^t  the 
true  meaning  of  the  words.  And  thus  we  easily  trace  the  foun- 
dation of  an  error  to  which  we  are  indebted  for  Byron's  beautiful 

The  fnll  of  hope,  miBnamed  foi-laiii. 


lyClOOglC 


194        ENGLISH   W0ED3  AND   TOKMS   OF   EXPRESSION. 


QUIZ. 

This  word,  which  is  only  in  vulgar  or  colloquial  use,  and 
which  some  of  the  lexicographers  have  attemped  to  trace  to 
learned  roots,  ori^nat«d  in  a  joke.  Daly,  the  manager  of  a 
Dublin  play-house,  wagered  that  a  word  of  no  meaning  should 
be  the  common  talk  and  puzzle  of  the  city  in  twenty-four  hours. 
In  the  course  of  that  time  the  letters  quiz  were  chalked  on 
all  the  walls  of  Dublin  with  an  effect  that  won  the  wager. 
Tennyson's  englibh. 
Probably  no  poet  ever  more  thoroughly  comprehended  the 
value  of  words  iu  metrical  composition  than  Mr.  Tennyson,  but 
he  has  issued  a  new  coinage  which  is  not  pure.  Compound 
epithets  are  modelled  after  the  Greek  or  revived  from  the  un- 
critical Elizabethan  era.  Thus,  where  w  should  nat  rally  say 
"  The  bee  is  cradled  in  the  lily,"  Mr.  T  nny  w  s  The  bee 
is  lily-cradled."  When  a  man's  nose  b  ke  at  the  bridge 
or  a  lady's  turns  up  at  the  tip,  the  on  I  t    b    "a  nose 

bridge-broken,"  and  the  other  (with  mu  h  gallant  y)  t    be  "  tip- 
tilted,  like  the  petal  of  a  flower." 

The  movement  of  the  metre  again  is  very  peculiar.  Discard- 
ing Milton's  long  and  complex  periods,  Mr.  Tennyson  has  re- 
stored blank  verse  to  an  apparently  simple  rhythm.  But  this 
simplicity  is  in  fact  the  result  of  artifice,  and,  under  every  variety 
of  movement,  the  ear  detects  the  recurrence  of  a  set  type. 
One  of  the  poet's  fe,vorit«  devices  is  to  pause  on  a  monosyllable 
at  the  beginning  of  a  line,  and  this  afi'ect  Is  repeated  so  often 
as  to  remind  the  reader  of  Euripides  and  his  unhappy  "oil 
flask"  in  The  Frogs.     Take  the  following  instances:— 

Aad  the  strange  sound  of  sa  adulterous  ntne, 

Against  the  iron  grating  of  ber  cell 

Beat. 

A  sound 

As  of  n  sDrer  bom  across  the  hills 

And  than  ths  mnsie  faded,  and  the  Grail 
His  ejes  beoame  so  like  her  own  they  seemed 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH   "WORDS   AND    FORMS   OF   EXPRESSION. 


"THAT   MINE   ADVERSARY   HAD    WRITTEN    A  B 

This  passage  from  Job  sssi.  35,  is  frequently  b 
being  interpreted  as  if  it  had  reference  to  a  hook  or  wilting  as 
commonly  understood.  It  means  rather,  according  to  Geseniua, 
a,  charge  or  accusation.  Pieriue  imikea  it  "libellura  accusa- 
tionis,"  and  Grotias,  "  eeriptam  accusaiionem  "  Scott  expresses 
this  in  his  Commerdar!/ : — 

"  J  ob  challenged  his  adversary,  or  accuser,  to  produce  a  libel 
or  written  indictment  against  him :  he  was  confident  that  it 
would  prove  no  disgrace  to  him,  but  an  honor;  as  every  article 
would  bo  disproved,  and  the  reverse  be  manifested." 

Other  commentators  understand  it  as  meanii^  a  record  of 
Job's  life,  or  of  his  sufferings.  Coverdale  translates  : — "  And 
let  him  that  my  contrary  party  sue  me  with  a  lybell."  In  the 
Genevan  version  it  is,  "  Though  mine  adversarie  should  write  a 
book  agaiml  m,e."  In  the  Bishop's  Bible,  1595,  "Though 
mine  adveisarie  write  a  book  against  me."  The  meaning  aeenis 
to  have  become  obscured  in  our  version  by  ret^ning  the  English 
book  instead  of  the  Latin  libel,  but  omitting  the  words  in  italics, 


ECCKNTKIC  ETYMOLOGIES. 

To  trace  the  changes  of  form  and  meaning  which  many  of 
die  words  of  our  langunge  have  undei^ne  is  no  ea&j  task 
There  are  words  as  current  with  us  as  with  our  foretitbeis  the 
s^nificance  of  which,  as  we  use  them,  is  very  different  from 
that  of  their  primitive  use.  And,  in  many  instances,  they  bate 
wandered,  by  courses  more  or  less  tortuous,  so  fill  fiom  their 
ori^nal  meaning  as  to  make  it  almost  impossible  to  follow  the 
track  of  divergence.  Hence,  it  is  easy  to  understand  why  it 
has  been  said  that  the  etymologist,  to  be  successful,  must  have 
"an  instinct  like  the  special  capabilities  of  the  pointer."  But 
there  are  derivations  which  are  only  revealed  by  accident,  or 
stumbled  upon  in  unexpected  ways,  and  which,  in  the  regular 


lyClOOglC 


196         ENGLISH   WORDS   AND   ¥ORMS   OF    EXPRESSION. 

course  of  patient  search,  would  never  have  been  elicited.  Tbe 
following  Ulustrative  selections  will  interest  the  general  reader. 
Bombastic. — This  adjective  has  an  odd  derivation.  Ori^n- 
ally  bombast  (from  tbe  Latin  bombas,  cotton)  meant  nothing 
but  cotton  wadding,  used  for  filling  or  stuffing.  Shakspeare 
employs  it  in  this  sense  in  Love's  Labor  Lost,  v.  2. 

As  bombast  and  as  living  to  tha  time. 

Decker,  in  his  Sai.yromustix,,  says,  "You  shall  swear  not  to 
bombaat  out  a  new  play  with  the  old  linings  of  jests."  And 
Giiaazo,  Ornle  CiMversafion,  1591, — "  Stadie  should  rather 
make  him  leaae  and  thinoe,  and  pull  out  the  bombast  of  bis 
corpulent  doublet." 

Hence,  by  easy  transition  from  the  ialseness  of  padding  or 
puf&ng  out  a  figure,  bombast  came  to  signify  sweiiing  preten- 
tiousness of  speech  and  conduct  as  an  adapted  meaning;  and 
gradually  this  became  the  primary  and  only  sense. 

Buxom. — This  word  is  simply  bow-some  or  bough-somo,  i.  e., 
that  which  readily  bows,  or  bends,  or  yields  like  tbe  boughs  of 
a  tree.  No  longer  ago  than  when  Milton  wrote  boughsome, 
which  as  gh  in  Bngli^  began  to  lose  Its  guttural  sound, — that 
of  the  letter  chi  in  Greek, —  came  to  be  written  luxom,,  meant 
simply  yielding,  and  was  of  general  application. 

'-and,  this  onoe  known,  ebsW  soon  ratum, 

And  bring  je  to  the  plaoe  wiierc  thou  and  Dsatli 

Shall  dwell  at  eftse,  and  up  and  down  unaaen 

Wing  ajlently  tho  busom  air."— Paradise  Lost,  II.  840. 

But  aided,  doubtless,  as  Dr.  Johnson suggeste,  byatoo  bberal 
construction  of  the  bride's  promise  in  tbe  old  English  marriage 
ceremony,  to  be  "obedient  and  busom  in  bed  and  board,"  it 
came  to  be  applied  to  women  who  were  erroneously  thought 
likely  to  bo  thus  yielding;  and  hence  it  now  means  plump, 
rosy,  alluring,  and  is  applied  only  to  women  who  combine  those 
qualities  of  %ure,  face  and  expression. 


lyClOOglC 


ENOLISH    WORDS    AND    FORMS   0¥   EXPRESSION.        197 

Cadaver. — An  abbot  of  Oirenceater,  about  1216,  conceived 
liimself  an  etjmoli^st,  and,  as  a  H]jecinien  of  his  powers,  Las 
left  us  the  Latin  word  cadaver,  acorpse,  thus  dissected; — "Ca," 
quoth  Le,  ia  abbreviated  for  caro;  "da"  for  data;  "ver"  for 
vermibus.  Hence  we  have  "  caro  data  vemiibus,"  flesh  given 
to  the  worms. 

Yet  while  the  reader  smiles  at  this  curious  absurdity,  it  is 
worth  while  to  note  that  the  word  alnu  is  constructed  upon  a 
similar  principle,  being  formed  (according  to  the  best  authority) 
of  letters,  taken  from  successive  syllables  of  the  cumbrous  La- 
tinized Greek  word  eheiao^na. 


Canard. — This  ia  the  French  for  duck,  and  the  origin  of  its 
application  to  hoasing  is  said  to  be  aa  follows : — To  ridicule  a 
growing  extravagance  in  story-teDing  a  clever  journalist  stated 
thftt  an  interesting  experiment  had  just  been  made,  calculated 
to  prove  the  estraordlnary  voracity  of  ducks.  Twenty  of  these 
animals  had  been  placed  ti^ether,  and  one  of  them  having  been 
killed  and  cut  up  into  the  smallest  possible  pieces,  feathers  and 
all,  and  thrown  to  the  other  nineteen,  had  been  gluttonously 
gobbled  up  m  m  exceedmgly  brief  space  of  time  Anothei  wai~ 
taken  from  tlie  remaining  nini,ti,en  ^nd  bein^  chopppd  ^mall 
like  its  piedecessor  was  served  up  to  the  eighteen  and  <it  ouce 
devoured  like  the  othei  and  so  on  to  the  last  which  wa*)  thus 
placed  in  the  remaikible  position  of  having  eaten  his  nineteen 
compinions  in  a  wonderfaliy  short  apice  of  time'  411  this 
most  pleasantly  narrated  obtamed  a  success  which  the  wntei 
was  far  fiom  anticipating,  hr  the  story  rin  the  rounds  ot  ill 
tbi,  jonrnalH  la  tuiope  It  then  became  almost  foigotttn  for 
about  a  score  of  years  when  it  came  biek  from  AmericJ,  with 
an  amplification  which  it  did  not  boast  of  at  the  c  nimence 
mpnt  and  with  a  regulai  certificate  of  the  autopsy  ot  the  body 
of  the  surviving  inim'd  whose  esophag  is  was  declaied  to  have 
been  seriously  injured'  Since  then  febncdtions  jf  thii  (,ha 
racter  have  been  called  canards 


lyGoogle 


198         ENGLISH   WORDS  AND   FORMS   OS    EXPRESSION. 

Chum. — A  aclioolboy'e  letter,  written  two  coiituries  ago,  has 
lately  revealod  that  chum  is  a  contraction  from  "  chamber- 
fellow."  Two  students  dwelling  together  found  the  word  un- 
wieldly,  and,  led  by  another  universal  law  of  language,  they 
shortened  it  in  the  most  obvious  way. 

Dandy. — Bishop  Fleetwood  says  that  "dandy"  is  derived 
from  a  silver  coin  of  small  value,  circulated  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  VIII.,  and  called  a  "  dandy-prat." 

^j^nee.— This  word  comes  to  us  from  the  celebrated  Duns 
Scotus,  chief  of  the  Schoolmen  of  his  time.  He  was  "  the 
subtle  doctor  by  preeminence;"  and  it  certainly  ie  a  strange 
perversion  that  a  scholar  of  his  great  ability  should  give  name 
to  a  class  who  Late  all  scholarship.  When  at  tte  Reformation 
and  revival  of  learning  the  works  of  the  Schoolmen  fell  into 
extreme  disfavor  with  the  Reformers  and  the  votaries  of  the 
new  learning,  Duns,  the  standard-bearer  of  the  former,  was  so 
often  referred  to  with  scorn  and  contempt  by  the  latter  that  bis 
name  gradually  became  the  by-word  it  now  is  for  hopeless  ig- 
norance and  invincible  stupidity.  The  errors  and  follies  of  a 
set  were  fastened  upon  their  distinguished  head.  Says  Tyn- 
dale,  1575,— 

"  Remember  ye  not  tow  within  this  thirty  years,  and  far 
less,  and  yet  dnreth  unto  this  day,  the  old  barking  eurs, 
thmce's  disciples,  and  like  draff  called  ScotJsts,  the  children 
of  darkness,  raged  in  every  pulpit  against  Greek,  Latin  and 
Hebrew  ?  " 

Eating  humlle-pte. — The  phrase  "eating  humble-pie"  is 
traced  to  the  obsolete  French  word  "omhlen,"  entrails;  pies  for 
the  household  servants  being  formerly  made  of  the  entrails  of 
animals.  Hence,  to  take  low  or  humble  ground,  to  submit  one's 
self,  came  fiimiliarly  to  be  called  eating  "humble  "  or  rather 
"umble"  pie.  The  word  "umbles"  came  to  us  from  the  Nor- 
man conquest,  and  though  now  obsolete,  retains  its  place  in 


lyClOOglC 


WORDS   AND    FORMS   OF  EXPRESSION.        199 

the  lexicons  of  Worcester  and  Welister,  who,  however,  explain 
the  entrails  to  be  those  of  the  deer  only. 

F^asco.~A  German,  one  day,  seeing  a  glasshlower  at  his  oc- 
cupation, thought  nothing  could  be  easier  than  glaashlowing, 
and  that  he  could  soon  learn  to  blow  as  well  as  the  workman. 
He  axicordingly  commenced  operations  by  blowing  yigorously, 
but  could  only  produce  a  sort  of  pear-shaped  balloon  or  little 
flask  (fiasco).  The  second  attempt  had  a  similar  result,  and  so 
on,  until  fiasco  after  Jiaseo  had  been  made.  Hence  arose  the 
expression  which  we  not  infrequently  have  occasiou  to  use  when 
describing  the  result  of  our  undertakings. 


Fudge. — This  is  a  curious  word,  having  a  positive  personality 
underlying  it.  Such  at  le^t  it  is,  if  Disraeli's  account  thereof 
be  authentio.  He  quotes  from  a  very  old  pamphlet  entitled 
Remarks  upon  the  Navy,  wherein  the  author  says,  "  There  was 
in  our  time  one  Captain  Ihdge,  commander  of  a  merchantman, 
who  upon  his  return  from  a  voyage,  how  ill  fraught  soever  hia 
ship  was,  always  brought  home  his  owners  a  good  crop  of  lies ; 
60  much  that  now,  aboard  ship,  the  sailors  when  they  hear  a 
great  iie  told,  cry  out,  '  You  fudge  it'."  The  ship  was  the 
Black  Eagle,  and  the  time,  Charles  11. ;  and  thence  the  mono- 
syllabic name  of  its  untruthful  captain  comes  to  us  for  excla- 
matdon  when  we  have  reason  to  believe  assertions  ill-founded. 

Gossip. — This  is  another  of  that  class  of  words  which  by 
the  system  of  mord  decadence  that  Trench  has  so  ably  illustra- 
ted aa  influencing  human  language,  has  come  to  be  a  term  of 
unpleasant  reproach.  In  some  parts  of  the  country,  by  the 
"  gossips"  of  a  child  are  meant  his  god-parents,  who  take  vows 
for  him  at  his  baptism.  The  connection  between  these  two  actual 
uses  of  the  word  is  not  so  far  to  seek  as  one  might  suppose. 
Chaucer  shows  us  that  those  who  stood  sponsors  for  an  infant 
were  considered  "sib,"  or  kin,  to  each  other  in  God:  thus  the 
double  syllables  were  compounded.     Verstigan  says : — 


lyClOOglC 


200        ENGLISH   WORDS  AND   FORMS   OF  EXPRESaiON. 

"  Our  Christian  ancestors  understanding  a  spirituall  afEnitie 
for  to  grow  between  the  pareotfl,  and  such  as  undertooke  for  the 
childe  at  baptisme,  called  each  other  by  the  name  of  God-sib, 
which  is  as  much  as  to  aay  as  that  they  were  sib  together,  i.  e. 
of  kin  together,  through  God." 

The  Roman  church  forbids  marriage  between  persons  so  united 
in  a  common  vow,  as  she  helievos  they  have  contracted  an 
essential  spiritual  relationship.  But  from  their  affinity  in  the  in- 
terests of  tho  child  they  were  brought  into  much  converse  with 
one  another;  and  as  much  talk  almost  always  degenerates  into 
idle  talk,  and  personalities  concerning  one's  neighbors,  and  the 
like,  so  "gossips"  finally  came  to  signify  the  latter,  when  the 
former  use  of  it  was  nearly  forgotten.  It  is  remarkable  that 
the  French  "oomm6rage"  baa  passed  through  identically  the 
same  pcrvereion. 

Grog. — Admiral  Vernon,  whose  ardent  devotion  to  his  profes- 
sion had  endeared  him  to  the  British  naval  service,  was  in  the 
habit  of  walking  the  deck,  in  bad  weather,  in  a  rough  grogram, 
cloak,  and  thence  had  obtained  the  nickname  of  Old  Grog. 
Wbilst  in  command  of  the  West  India  station,  and  at  the  height 
of  his  popularity  on  account  of  his  reduction  of  Porto  Bello 
with  six  men-of-war  only,  he  introduced  the  nse  of  rum  and  water 
among  the  ship's  company.  When  served  out,  the  now  beverage 
proved  most  palatable,  and  speedily  grew  into  such  favor  that 
it  became  as  popular  as  the  brave  admir^  himself,  and  in  honor 
of  him  was  sumamed  by  acclamation  "  Grog." 


—According  to  Tilloteon,  this  singular  expres- 
sion is  believed  to  be  a  corruption  of  the  transubstantiating 
formula,  Hoc  est  corpus  mfu-m,  used  by  the  priest  on  the 
elevation  of  the  host.  Turner,  in  his  history  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxons,  tra<ies  it  to  Ochus  Bochus,  a  magician  and  demon  of 
the  northern  mythology.  We  should  certainly  prefer  the  latter 
as  the  source  of  this  conjurer's  catcb-word,  which  the  usage  of 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH    WORDS   AND    1 


S  OF   EXPEESSION,       201 


ordinary  life  conoects  with  ju^lerj  or    UD&ir  dealiii 
preponderant  evidence  is  in  favor  of  the  former. 


hia  word,  brought  much  into  use  hy  the  exi- 
gencies of  our  civil  war,  is  from  the  French  "  malin  gr^,"  and 
signifies  a  soldiei  who  from  "evil  will"  shirks  his  duty  by 
feigning  sickness,  or  otherwise  lendenug  himself  incapahle  in 
plain  wordfe,  a  poltroon 

Mustard — Etymologists  hue  fought  vigorously  ovei  the 
derivation  of  this  woid  '  Multum  ardpt,"  says  one,  or  in  old 
French,  "moult  arde,"  it  bums  muoh.  "  Muatum  ardens,  hot 
must,  says  another,  referring  to  the  former  custom  of  preparing 
French  mustard  for  the  table  with  the  sweet  miist  of  new  wine. 
A  picturesque  story  about  the  name  is  thus  told: — PhUip  the 
Bold,  Duke  of  Bui^ndy,  granted  to  Dijon  ccrtaia  armorial 
bearings,  with  the  motto  "Moult  me  tarde" — I  long  or  wish 
ardently.  This  was  sculptured  over  the  principal  gate.  In  the 
coui'se  of  years,  by  some  aecident,  the  central  word  was  efi'aced. 
The  manufacturers  of  sinapi  or  seu6v^  (such  were  the  former 
names  of  mustard),  wishing  to  label  their  pots  of  condiment 
with  the  city  arms,  copied  the  mutilated  motto;  and  the  un- 
learned, seeing  continually  the  inscription  of  "  mouit-tarde," 
fell  into  the  habit  of  calling  the  contents  by  this  title. 

X'awi/. — Many  persons  have  been  puzzled  by  the  application 
of  this  word,  abbreviated  from  navigator,  to  laborers.  Why 
should  earfch-workers  be  called  navigators  ?  They  whose  busi- 
ness is  with  an  element  antipodean  to  water,  why  receive  a 
title  as  of  seafaring  men?  At  the  period  when  inland  naviga- 
tion was  the  national  rage,  and  canals  were  considered  to  involve 
the  essentials  of  prosperity,  as  rwlways  are  now,  the  workmen 
employed  on  them  were  called  "navigators,"  as  cutting  the 
way  for  navigation.  And  when  railways  superseded  canals,  the 
name  of  the  laborers,  withdrawn  from  one  work  to  the  other, 
was  unchanged,  and  merely  contracted,  according  to  the  dia- 


lyClOOglC 


202        ENGLISH    WORDS  AND   FORMS   OF    EXPRESSION. 

like  of  our  ADglo-Saxon  tongues  to  «se  four  syllables  where  a 
less  number  will  suffice. 

Neighbor. — Formerly  this  familiar  word  was  employed  to 
signify  "  the  boor  who  lives  nigh  to  us."  And  just  here  is  an- 
other of  those  words  which  have  been  degraded  froia  their 
original  sense;  for  hoor  did  aot  then  represent  a  stupid,  igno- 
rant lout,  but  simply  a  former,  as  in  Dutch  now. 

PollToon.—Xa  the  olden  days  the  Norman-French  "poltroon" 
had  a  signifi-canee  obsolete  now ;  days  when  Stronghow  was  a 
noble  surname,  and  the  yew-trees  of  England  were  of  impor- 
bince  as  an  arm  of  national  defence;  then  the  coward  or  malin- 
gerer had  but  to  cut  off  the  thumb  ("pollice  truncua"  in  Latin) 
— the  thumb  which  drew  the  bow,  and  he  was  unfit  for  service, 
and  must  be  dischai^ed. 

Porpoise  — The  common  creature  of  the  sea  whose  tnmboh 
luvepa^ed  nto  jest  an!  a  proverb  he  porp  e  o  nan  el 
I  cause  of  his  eaemblan  e  to  a  1  og  when  a  sp  ve  n  d 
Po  c  po  on  d  somebody  who  watche  1  a  h  1  ot  hem 
tumll  J,  abou  fo  all  h  world  Ike  swme  es-ajt  f  tie 
sharp  dorsal  fin    and   1  e  ej  tl  e   adl  e  ed 

&  rap  — Lent;  ago  roamed  tl  ro  h  the  f  rest^  he  red  nd 
f  llow  deer  which  ha  1  a  1  ab  t  of  scrap  ng  up  the  ea  th  w  h 
the  r  fore  feet  to  the  dep  h  of  seve  al  ches  so  net  m  s  cv  n  of 
HH  a  ya  d  A  wayf  n  man  th  ou„h  he  olden  wood  was 
frequeu  ly  expo  ed  to  the  dan  er  ot  tun  blm^,  m  ft  one  of  these 
hollo  vs   wl  en  he  mi"!  t  t    Ij  be  sa  1  to  i  e  a  scrape 

Cambridge  students  in  their  little  difficulties  picked  up  and  ap- 
plied the  phrase  to  other  perplexing  matters  which  iiad  brought 
a  man  morally  into  a  fix. 

Sterling. — This  word  was  originally  applied  to  the  metal 
rather  than  to  a  coin.  The  following  extract  from  Camden  points 
out  its  origin  as  applied  to  money  ■ — ■ 


lyGoogle 


ENOLISn   WOEDS   AND    FORMS   OP   EXPRESSION, 


20B 


In  the  lime  of  his  sonne  King  Richard  the  First,  monie 
coined  in  the  east  parts  of  Germanie  began  to  be  of  especiall 
request  in  England  for  the  puritie  thereof,  and  was  called 
Easterling  monie,  as  all  the  inhabitants  of  those  parts  were 
called  EaitKrlings,  and  shortly  after  some  of  that  countrie,  skil- 
ful in  mint  matters  and  alloies,  were  sent  for  into  this  realme  to 
bring  the  coins  to  perfeetion,  which,  since  that  time,  was  called 
of  them  sterling  for  Easterlings. 

Surplice. — That  aoholastie  and  ministerial  badge,  the  sur- 
plice, is  said  to  derive  its  name  from  the  Latin  "  superpelliceum," 
because  anciently  worn  over  leathern  coats  made  of  hides  of 
beasta ;  with  the  idea  of  representing  how  the  sin  of  our  first 
parents  is  now  covered  by  the  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesiis  Christ, 
so  that  we  are  entitled  to  wear  the  emblem  of  innocence. 

Si/copkant. — The  original  etymology  of  the  word  sycophant 
is  ciiiious.  The  word  ai>io<pii.vriui  (from  ^Drav,  a  fig,  and  fauai, 
to  show,)  in  its  primary  signification,  means  to  inform  against 
or  expose  those  who  exported  ^s  from  Athens  to  other  places 
without  paying  duty,  hence  it  came  to  signify  calumnior,  to 
accuse  falsely,  to  be  a  tale-bearer,  an  evil  speaker  of  others. 
The  word  sycopfianfa  means,  in  its  first  sense,  no  more  than 
this.  We  now  apply  it  to  any  flatterer,  or  Other  abject  depen- 
dant, who,  to  serve  his  own  purposes,  slandera  and  detracts 
from  others. 

Tariff. — Because  payment  of  a  fixed  scale  of  duties  was  de- 
manded by  the  Moorish  occupants  of  a  fortress  on  Tarifa 
promontory,  which  overlooked  the  entrance  to  the  Meditorra- 
nean,  all  tases  on  imports  came  to  be  called  a  tariff. 

TV^ocfe.— A  remarkable  curiosity  in  the  way  of  derivations 
is  one  traced  by  that  indefal^able  explorer,  Archbishop  Trench, 
which  connects  treacle  with  vipers.  The  syrup  of  molasses 
with  the  poison  of  snakes!  Never  was  an  odder  relationship; 
yet  it  is  a  case  of  genuine  fatherhood,  and  embodies  a  singular 
superstition.     The  ancients  believed  that  the  best  antidote  to 


lyClOOglC 


204        ENGLISH    WORUS   AND   FORMS   OP   JEXPRESSION. 

the  bite  of  the  viper  was  a.  confection  of  its  own  flesh.  The 
Greek  word  -d-Tjpiax-j,  flesh  of  the  viper,  was  given  first  to  sueh 
a  sweetmeat,  and  then  to  any  antidote  of  poison,  and  lastly  to 
any  syrup;  and  easily  corrupted  into  our  present  word.  Chaucer 
has  a  line — 

Christ,  which  that  ie  to  every  harm  triaela. 
Milton  speaks  of  the  "sovran  treacle  of  sound  doctrine."  A 
stuff  called  Venice  Treacle  was  considered  antidote  to  all  poisons, 
"  Vipers  treacle  yield,"  says  Edmund  Waller,  in  a  verse  which 
has  puzzled  many  a  modem  reader,  and  yet  brings  one  close  to 
tte  truth  of  tho  etymology,  and  shows  that  treacle  is  only  a 
popular  corruption  of  iheriac. 

Wig. — This  word  may  be  cited  as  a  good  example  to  show 
how  interesting  and  profitable  it  is  to  trace  words  through  their 
etymolo^cal  windings  to  their  original  source.  Wig  is  abridged 
from  periwig,  which  comes  from  the  Low  Dut«h  peruik, 
which  has  the  same  meaning.  When  first  introduced  into  tho 
Kcglish  language,  it  was  written  and  pronounoed  ^envichf  the 
ii  being  changed  into  w,  as  may  still  be  seen  in  old  English 
books.  Afterwards  the  i  was  introduced  for  euphony,  and  it 
became  periuiick;  and  finally  the  ck  was  changed  into  p, 
making  itperiviiff,  and  by  contraction  mff. 

The  Dutch  word  perurk  was  borrowed  from  the  French  per- 
raqite.  The  termination  tdk  is  a  favorite  one  with  that  nation, 
and  is  generally  substituted  in  borrowed  words  for  the  French 
uque  and  the  German  aiich.  The  French  word  perruque  comes 
from  the  Spanish  peluca,  and  this  last  from  pelo,  hair,  which 
is  derived  from  the  Latin  pihis.  Hence  the  Latin  word  pHus, 
hair,  through  successive  transformations,  has  produced  the 
English  word  wig. 

Wmd/aM. — Centuries  ago  a  clause  was  extant  in  the  tenure 
of  many  English  estates,  to  the  effect  that  the  ownera  might 
not  fell  the  trees,  as  the  best  timber  was  reserved  for  the  Royal 
Navj ;  but  any  trees  that  came  down  without  cutting  were  the 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH   WORDti   AND   FORMS   OF   EX  PEE  SSI  ON, 


205 


property  of  the  tenant.  Heace  was  a  storm  a  joyful  and  a 
lucrative  event  in  proportion  to  its  intensity,  and  the  larger  the 
number  of  forest  patriarchs  it  laid  low  the  richer  was  the  lord 
of  the  land.  He  had  received  a  veritable  "wiudfall."  Ours  in 
the  nineteenth  century  come  in  the  shape  of  any  unexpected 
profit;  and  those  of  us  who  own  estates  rather  quake  in  sym- 
pathy with  our  trembling  trees  on  windy  nights. 

ODD   CHANGES  OP   SIGNIITOATION. 

The  first  verse  of  Dean  Whittingham's  version  of  the  114th 
Psalm  may  be  quoted  as  a  curious  instance  of  a  phrase  origin- 
ally grave  in  its  meaning  hecome  strangely  incongruous : — 


Since  the  completion  of  the  Pacific  Railway,  some  intro- 
duotory  lines  in  Sonthey's  Thalaha  reqoiro  correction:  — 


If  the  author  would  revisit  the  earth,  he  would  find  n 
"stations"  on  the  railway  route   aoi-oss   the   Great  Amei-ioan 
Desert. 

Among  funny  instances  of  wresting  from  a  t«xt  a  meaning 
to  suit  a  particular  purpose,  is  tliat  of  the  claswcal  scholar  who 
undertook  to  prove  that  the  word  "smile"  was  used  as  a  euphe- 
mism for  a  drink  in  ancient  times,  by  quoting  from  Horace's 
Oifes:— 

Amara  lento  temperat  tisu. 


Which  is  rendered  hy  Martin  :- 


lyClOOglC 


206       BNaLISH   WOKDS   AND   POItMS   Or 


By  lento  risa,  it  was  argued,  is  dearly  meant  a  slow  smile,  or 
one  taken  through  a  straw ! 

llie  meaning  of  the  word  WretA  is  one  not  generally  under- 
stood. It  was  originally,  and  is  now,  in  some  parts  of  England, 
used  as  a  term  of  the  softest  and  fondest  tendernefis.  This  is 
not  the  only  instance  in  which  words  in  their  present  general 
acceptation  bear  a  very  opposite  meaning  to  what  they  did  in 
Shakspeare's  time.  The  word  Wencft,  formerly,  was  not  used 
in  the  low  and  vulgar  acceptation  that  it  is  at  present.  Damsel 
was  the  appellation  of  young  ladies  of  quality,  and  Dame  a 
title  of  distinction.  Knave  once  signified  a  servant;  and  in  an 
early  translation  of  the  New  T^fament,  instead  of  "Paul,  the 
Servant,"  we  read  "Paul,  the  Knave  of  Jesus  Christ,"  or, 
Paul,  a  rascal  of  Jesus  Christ.  Va/rlet  was  formerly  used  in  the 
same  sense  as  valet.  On  the  other  hand,  the  word  Campanvm, 
instead  of  being  the  honorable  synonym  of  Associate,  occurs 
in  the  play  of  Othello  with  the  same  contemptuous  meaning 
which  we  now  affix,  in  its  abusive  sense,  to  the  word  "  Fellow ;" 
for  Emilia,  perceiving  tkat  some  secret  villain  had  aspersed  the 
character  of  the  virtuous  Desdemona,  thus  indignantly  ex- 
claims:— 

0  Heaven !  that  snoh  Compamons  tbou'del  unfold. 
To  laah  the  rascal  naked  through  the  world.— iv.  2. 

Vtllaia  formerly  meant  a  bondman.  In  feudal  law,  according 
to  Elaokstone,  the  term  was  applied  to  those  who  held  lands  and 
tenemeuts  in  villenoffe, — a  tenure  by  base  services. 

Pedant  formerly  meant  a  schoolmaster.  Shakspeare  says  in 
his  Twelfth  Kigkt, — 

A  pedant  that  keeps  a  Bohool  iQ  the  ehurch. — iii.  2. 

Bacon,  in  his  Pathway  unio  Prayer,  thus  uses  the  word 
Imp;  "Let  «a  pray  for  the  preservation  of  the  King's  most 
excellent  Majesty,  and  for  the  prosperous  success  of  bis  enth^ly 
beloved  son  Edward  our  Prince,  that  most  angelic  imp." 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH    WORDS   ANi>   FOBMS   OF    EXPRESSION.        207 

The  word  brat  is  not  eonsiderod  very  elegant  now,  but  a 
few  jears  ago  it  liad  a  different  signification  from  its  presCEt 
one.  An  old  hymn  or  De  profwidis,  by  Gtosooine,  contains 
the  lines, — 

"  0  Israel,  0  lionaohold  of  the  Lord, 
0  Abraham's  brats,  0  brood  ol  bloS3i>d  Ecod, 
0  elioson  ahocp  lliat  loved  tho  Lord  Indeed 

It  is  a  somcwbat  noticeable  fact,  thrt  the  changes  in  the 
signification  of  words  have  generally  been  to  their  det(,ri  ra 
tioB ;  tliat  is,  words  that  heretofore  had  no  sinister  meining 
have  acquired  it.  Tho  word  cunnm;  foi  csample  formerly 
meant  nothing  sinister  or  underhanded;  and  in  Thropc  s  con- 
fession in  Foe's  "Book  of  Martyrs"  is  the  sentence,  "  I  believe 
that  all  these  three  persons  [in  the  Godhead]  are  even  in 
power,  and  in  cunning,  and  in  might,  full  of  grace  and  of  all 
goodness."  Demure  is  another  of  tliis  class.  It  was  used  by 
earlier  writers  without  the  insinuation  which  is  now  almost 
latent  in  it,  that  the  external  shows  of  modesty  and  sobriety 
rest  on  no  corresponding  realities.  Explode  foi-nierly  meant 
to  drive  off  tho  stage  with  loud  clappings  of  tho  hands,  but 
gradually  became  exaggerated  into  its  present  signification. 
Facetious,  too,  originally  meant  urbane,  but  now  has  so  degene- 
rated as  to  have  acquired  tho  sense  of  buffoonery;  and  Mr. 
Treucli  sees  indications  that  it  will  ere  loog  acquire  the  sense 
of  indecent  buifoonery. 

Frippery/  now  means  trumpery  and  odds  and  ends  of  eheap 
finery;  but  once  it  Bieant  old  clothes  of  value,  and  not  worth- 
less, as  the  term  at  present  implies.  Tho  word  Gossip  for- 
merly meant  only  a  sponsor  in  baptism.  Sponsors  were  sup- 
posed to  become  acquainted  at  the  baptismal  font,  and  by  their 
sponsotial  act  to  establish  an  indefinite  affinity  towards  each 
other  and  tho  child.  Thus  tho  word  was  applied  to  all  who 
were  familiar  and  intimate,  and  finally  obtained  the  meaning 
which  is  now  predominant  in  it. 

Ilomeli/  once  meant  secret  and  familiar,  though  in  the  time 
of  Milton  it  had  acquired  the  same  sense  as  at  present.     Idiot, 


lyClOOglC 


208        ENGLISH   WORDS   AND    FORMS   OP   EXPEESSION. 

from  the  Greek,  originally  aignifled  only  a  priyate  man  as  dis- 
tinguished, irom  one  in  public  office,  and  from  that  it  has  de- 
generated till  it  has  come  to  designate  a  person  of  defective 
mental  powers.  Jncense  once  meant  to  kindle  not  only  anger, 
but  good  passions  as  well;  Fuller  uses  it  in  the  sense  of  "to 
incite."  Indolence  originally  signified  a  freedom  from  passion 
or  pain,  but  now  implies  a  condition  of  languid  non-exertion. 
Insolent  was  onee  only  "  unusual." 

The  derivation  of  lumber  is  peculiar.  As  the  Lombards 
were  the  bankers,  so  they  were  also  tlie  pawnbrokers,  of  the 
Middle  Ages.  The  "  lumber-room"  was  then  the  place  where 
Ike  Ljmbird  biuker  and  broker  stored  his  pledges,  and  lumber 
gradually  came  to  mean  the  pledges  themselves.  Aa  these 
naturally  accumulated  till  they  got  out  of  date  or  became  un- 
serviceable, it  18  easy  to  tuce  the  steps  by  which  the  word 
descended  to  it"*  present  meining 

Ohstgwious  implies  an  unmanly  readiness  to  fall  in  with  the 
will  ot  another,  but  in  the  original  obsequium,  or  in  the 
English  word  aa  employed  two  centuries  ago,  there  was  nothing 
of  this  it  lather  meant  obedience  and  mildness.  Shakspeare, 
speaking  of  a  deceased  person,  says, — 

"How  many  a  holy  sai  obseqnioua  taar 
Hath  dear  relisioue  lose  stolen  from  mine  eje. 
As  interaat  of  the  dead." 

Property  and  propriety  were  once  synonymous,  both  refer- 
ring to  material  thinga,  as  the  French  word  proprUti  does  now. 
Foieigners  do  not  often  oatoh  the  distinction  at  present  made 
in  English  between  the  two  words;  and  we  know  a  French 
gentleman  who,  recently  meeting  with  some  pecuniary  reverses, 
astonished  his  friends  by  telling  them  that  he  had  lost  all  hie 
"  propriety." 

A  poet  is  a  person  who  writes  poetry,  and,  aeoording  to  the 
good  old  customs,  a  proser  was  a  person  who  wrote  prose,  and 
simply  the  antithesis  of  poet.  The  word  has  now  a  sadly  differ- 
ent signification ;  and  it  would  not  be  considered  very  respect- 
able to  tema  Addison,  Irving,  Bancroft,  or  Everett  "  prosera,'' 


lyClOOglC 


ENGLISH   WORDS   AND    FORMS    01-   EXPRESSION. 


The  KoraanSj  from  the  time  thej  expelled  their  kings,  could 
never  endure  the  idea  of  being  governed  hy  a  king.  But  thej 
BTihmitted  to  the  most  abject  slavery  under  an  &rvpero^.  And 
OlVer  Cr  mwell  d'  1  not  venture  to  isk  disgust  ng  the  rep  b 
1  cans  b>  call  ng  h  mself  king  though  under  the  t  tie  of  P 
ector  he  exerc  sed  regal  ft  n  t  ona 

The  Amer  can  colon  eo  subn  tfed  to  have  the  r      mme  ce 
and  the  r  manufaet  res  cr  ppled  by  restr  ot  ons  avowedly  for 


the  1  ene 
taxe  I  t 
p  yng  n 


of  the  mothe   country    and  we  e   th  s      r    ally 

t  of  all  that    1  ey   n  iny   n  tance  lo.  t  by 

t  w  uid  coat  to  make    t 


But  as  ioon  as  tax 
V  t  into  rebelhuu. 
th  m  nearly  incredible, 
ther  gods;  and  yet 
m  e  actually  serving 
B  t  then  they  do  not 

t       and  they  do  not 


i  irt    1 
(  or  to  buy  t  of  f 
was  imposed  under  that  nan      t 

It  is  a  marvel  to  many  and 
that  the  Israelites  should  ha 
the  vulgar  m  most  parts  of  CI 
the  gods  of  then   heathen  a 
call  them   yod     bat  fiinea         E   gl  t       an 

apply  the  word  woiship  to  th  at   n    f  t 

Jice  to  then  offermgs      And  this  alight  change  of  name  keeps 
most  people  in  ignorance  oi  a  fact  th^t  is  before  their  eyes. 

Others,  pofessed  Christians,  are  believe  1,  both  by  others 
and  by  themselves  to  be  worshippers  of  the  true  God,  though 
they  invest  him  with  the  attrtlutes  of  one  of  the  evil  demons 
worshipped  by  the  heathes  There  la  hardly  any  professed 
Christian  who  would  not  be  sho(,ked  at  the  application  of  the 
word  caprice  to  the  acts  of  the  Mo&t  High.  And  yet  his 
choosing  to  inflict  suffering  on  his  creatures  "for  no  cause" 
{as  some  theologians  maintain)  except  that  such  is  Im  mill," 
is  the  very  definition  of  cipii(,e 

But  when  Lord  Eyion  published  his  poem  of  "Cain," 
which  contj  na  aubstantnlly  the  very  same  doctrine,  there  was 
a  groat  outcry  among  pious  people  including,  no  doubt,  many 
who  were  ot  the  theological  school  nhicb  teaches  the  same, 
under  other     ime 


lyClOOglC 


210        ENGLISH   WOEDS   AND    JORMS   OF 

Why  and  how  any  evil  oomes  to  exist  in  the  u 
ciinnot  explain,  and  revelation  does  not  tel!  us.  But  it  does 
stow  us  what  is  not  the  cause.  That  it  cannot  be  from  HI  will 
or  indifference,  is  proved  by  the  sufferings  undergone  by  the 
beloved  Son. 

Many  probably  would  have  hesitated  if  it  had  been  proposed 
to  them  tfl  join  a,  new  Church  under  that  Jtonw,  who  yet 
eagerly  enrolled  themselves  in  the  Evangelical  Alliance, — ■ 
which  is  in  fact  a  church,  with  meetings  for  worship,  and 
sermons  under  the  name  of  speeches,  and  a  creed  consisting  of 
sundry  Articles  of  Faith  to  be  subscribed ;  only  not  called  by 
those  names, 

Mrs.  B.  expressed  to  a  friend  her  great  dread  of  aueh  a 
medicine  as  tartar- emetic.  She  always,  she  said,  gave  her 
children  antCmomal  wine.  He  explained  to  her  that  this  is 
t^tar-emetio  dissolved  in  wine ;  hut  she  remained  unchanged. 

Mrs.  H.  did  not  like  that  her  daughters  should  be  novel- 
readers  ;  and  aU  novels  in  prose  were  indiscriminately  prohi- 
bited ;  biit  an^  thing  in  verse  was  as  indiscriminately  allowed. 

Probably  a  Quaker  would  be  slartled  it  iny  one's  using  the 
very  words  of  the  prophets,  "  Thus  saith  the  Lord ;"  yet  he  , 
says  the  same  things  in  the  words,  "  The  Spirit  moveth  me  to 
say  so  and  so."  And  some,  again,  who  would  be  shocked  at 
this,  speak  of  a  person, — adult  or  child, — mho  addresses  a  con- 
gregation in  extempore  prayers  and  discourses,  as  being  under 
the  infiaence  of  the  Soly  Spirit ;  though  in  neither  case  is 
there  any  miraonlous  "proof  given.  And  they  abhor  a  claim 
to  infallihUity  ;  only  they  are  quite  certain  oS  being  under  the 
guidance  of  the  Spirit  in  whatever  they  say  or  do. 

Quakers,  again,  and  some  other  dissenters,  object  to  a  hired 
ministry,  (in  reality,  an  unhired ;)  but  their  preachers  are  to 
be  supplied  m^  all  they  need;  like  the  father  of  Molifire's 
Bourgeois,  who  -was  no  shopheeper,  but  kindly  chose  goods  for 
his  friends,  which  he  let  them  have  for  money. 


lyGoogle 


ENGLISH   WORDS   AND    FORMS   OF   EXPRESSIOR. 


nOMPOUND 

The  custom  of  using  tard  oompounds  furnished  Ben  Jonson 
opportunities  of  showing  his  learning  as  well  aa  bis  satire.  He 
used  to  call  them  "words  «n-in-oue-breath-utterable."  Kedi 
mentions  an  epigram  against  the  sophists,  made  up  of  com- 
pounds "a  mile  long."  Josepli  Scaliger  left  a  curious  exam- 
ple in  Latin,  part  of  wbicb  may  be  thus  rendered  into  Eng- 
lish :— 

Lof^browflourialiera, 

NosembeajdwallowerB, 

BrigaDdbeai^Inouriehers, 

DiahandaJLawallowora, 

OldoloakinvesUtora, 

B  aiefootlook&ahiosera, 

NiglitpriFatafeaBteaters, 

Craftlnonbralionets  ; 
ToaUicheatera,  Wordoatohsrs,  Vainglory OBophors, 
Such  are  jonr  aeekersofi'irtHe  piilosophsrs. 

The  old  naturalist  Lovell  published  a  book  at  Oxford,  in 
1661,  entitled  Panzootogicontineralogia.  Rabelais  proposed 
the  following  title  for  a  book : — Aniipericatametaparh^iigedam- 
phicribrationes.  The  reader  of  Shakspeare  will  remember  Cos- 
tard's honorijicabilifiidimtatih'as,  in  Love's  Labor  Lost,  v.  1. 
There  was  recently  in  the  British  army  a  major  named  Te^o- 
ninhokaraioen.  In  the  island  of  Mull,  Scotland,  is  a  locality 
named  DrimlaidhorickhilHchaftwii.  The  original  Mexican  for 
country  ourates  is  NoUcmoTnahnit^eopwccatatzins.  The  longest 
Nipmuck  word  in  Eliot's  Indian  Bible  is  in  St.  Mark  i.  40, 
Wutt^pe&iUukgmsvm.noowektmikgVioh,  and  signifies  "  kneeling 
down  to  him." 

OUR  VERNACULAR  IN   CHAUOER'S   TIME. 

Bnt  redo  that  bowoth  down  for  everj  blaste 

Ful  lyghtlj  cease  wynde,  it  wol  aryee 

But  so  nyla  not  an  oke,  whan  it  is  osata 

It  nadefh  me  naught  longa  the  forvyse 

Men  shall  reioysen  of  u  great  empriee 

Alohewed  wel  and  staut  withouten  dont 

AI  haua  men  ben  the  longer  there  about.^7Voy7ud,  ii. 


lyGoogle 


TALL   WRITING. 


DEFINITION   OF  TEANSCENDENTAUSM. 

The  spiritual    cognoseence  of    psychological    itrefragibilitj 
connected  with  concutieot  ademption  of  incoluninient  spiritua)- 
itj  and  etherialized  contention  of  subsultory  concretion. 
Traaalatod  by  a  New  York  lawyer,  it  stands  thus : — 
Transcendeatalism   is   two  holes   in  a  sand-bank  ;  a  Btorm 
washes  away  the  sand-bauk  without  disturbing  the  holes. 

THE  DOMICILE   ERECTED  BY  JOHN. 
T,-anslaled  from  the  Vulgate. 
Behold  the  Maraiun  reared  by  dredal  Jack. 
Soa  the  roalt  stored  in  many  a,  plalhorio  sack. 
In  the  proud  oirqae  of  Ivan'a  blTouac 
Mark  how  the  Eat'3  felonious  fangs  invade 
The  golden  stores  in  John's  pavilion  laid. 

Subtle  Grimalkin  to  hia  quarry  glides, — 
Grimalkin  grim,  that  slew  the  fierce  rode«l 
Whose  tooth  inaidioua  Johann's  saokoloth  rent. 


Lo! 

nov 

Ihe  deep-mouthed  can 

ne  foe'a  ossault. 

Tha 

ed  the  avenger  of  the  a 

olon  mail, 

edi 

the  halloned  precioct 

of  that  hall 

Tha 

a  complete  at  Jock's  er< 

ative  call. 

Hor 

stalks  the  impetuous  Con 

with  crumpled  horn. 

waa  torn, 

bayed  the  feline  slanghter- 

beast  that  slew 

The 

Ra 

predacious,  whose  kee 

fangs  ran  tirougb 

,le  abera  that  Involved  the  grain 

Wh 

ohl 

ly  in  Hans'  inviolate  d 

main. 

Her 

nalks  forlorn  the  Damaol 

Towned  with  rue. 

La-^ 

us  spoils  from  vaccine 

uga,  who  drew, 

Of  that 

ornieulata  beast  whose 

ortuons  hom 

Tosaod 

0  the  clouds,  in  Berce  v 

ndictive  aeorn. 

The 

har 

rowing  hound,  whose  br 

ggart  bark  and  stir 

Arched 

the  lithe  spine  and  reare 

d  the  indignant  to 

lyGoogle 


TALL   WRITING. 

Of  Pnss,  that  with  vermin icidid  claw 
Struck  the  weird  rat  in  whoae  insatiate  ma 
Lay  reeking  molt  &at  eiBt  io  Juan'e  courts 
Robed,  in  eenescant  garb  that  seems  in  aoot 
Too  long  a  prey  to  Chronos'  iron  tooth. 

To  the  lorn  maiden  whose  laet-albio  hands 
Drew  atbn-lacUc  wealth  from  lacteal  gland 
Of  that  immortal  bovine,  b;  whoae  horn 
DJEtorC,  to  realm  e 
The  beast  eatulear 

The  old  mordacious  Rat  thi 
Antecedaneous  Ale  in  John 


ofth 


Lo,  here,  wiih  hirsnte  honors  doffed,  suooinot 
;Dlden  bands  the  torn  nntJirift, 


InHj, 

Even  09  he  kissed  the  yirgi 
Who  milked  the  oow  with  i 
Who  in  fine  wrath  the  oani 


That  dared  to  vex  the  ineidions  murieide. 

Who  let  auroral  effluence  through  the  pelt 

Of  the  si;  Eat  that  robbed  Uie  palace  Jack  had  buiit. 

The  lend  cantankerous  Shanghae  oomea  at  last. 

Whose  shuulf  arouse  the  shorn  ecclesiast. 


culates  the  dams 


The. 


oulgaK 


of  that 


i-ROM   THE   CURIOSITIES   OF 

TO  BE  LET, 

To  an  Oppidan,  a  Ruricolist,  or  a  Cosmopolitan,  and  may  be 
entered  upon  immediately : 

The  House  in  Stone  Row,  lately  possessed  by  Capt.  Sieee, 
To  avoid  Verbosity,  the  Proprietor  with  Compendiosity  will 
give  a  Perfunctory  description  of  the  Premises,  in  the  Compa- 
^tiation  of  which  he  has  Sedulously  studied  the  convenience  of 


lyClOOglC 


214  TALL   WRITina. 

the  Occupant  It  is  free  from  Opacity,  Tenebrosity,  Fninidity, 
and  InjueuDiitj  acd  no  building  can  hare  greater  Pellucidity 
or  Trinsluoency — m  short,  its  Diaphaneity  e^en  in  the  Cre- 
pnscle  rallies  it  like  a  Pharos,  and  without  laud,  for  its  Agglu- 
finition  and  Ampnity,  it  is  a  most  Delectable  Oommorance ; 
an  1  wboevLi  lives  in  it  will  find  that  the  Neighbors  have  none 
ot  the  Tniculence,  the  Immanity,  the  Torvity,  the  Spinosity, 
the  Putidness,  the  Pugnacity,  nor  the  Fugacity  observable  in 
other  parte  of  the  town,  but  their  Propinquity  and  Consanguinity 
occasion  Jocundity  and  Pudicity — from  which,  and  the  Redo- 
lence of  the  place  (even  in  the  dog-days),  they  are  remarkable 
for  Longevity.  For  terms  and  particulars  apply  to  James 
Hutchinson,  opposite  the  Market-House. — Dnh.  News. 

PROM  THE   CURIOSITIES   OF  THE   POST-OITICE, 

The  following  is  a  genuine  epistle,  sent  by  an  emigrant  coun- 
try schoolmaster  to  a  friend  at  home  : — 

Mr  M  C     n  r 

W  th       gm  1      n  1  d       -nm  I  y      th 

dl  mmnt  Ad  tjwth 

o^bl    C  mpl         y  th  t  w  i'j     J  J        p  t     t  1     d 

blgdklbthkt  mjt       Ftbf  W 

d  w   i  w  th  th     m  m     t         p  t  t        p     t  bl 

p  rat         of  ppl  m  y     f  1  h       b 

d   gT.ll     t  y     tbl  1    d      h         b     p    d      y  1  1 
f        m  nths     tth      dtewd      m      tdli       Marg 
0        lly 

lilt        pdtoth(.mm         t  1  td 

t     C        y       cal       w  tb  y        d    t  ty       d         d  ty 

If  your  brotber  who  had  been  pristinely  1  e  t  d  d  tat  I 
in  England  whether  be  has  induced  himself  with  ecstasy  to  be 
in  preparation  to  progress  with  you.  I  am  pwd  by  the  re- 
spectable potent  loyal  nobleman  that  I  work  for  one  dollar 
per  day.  Announce  to  us  in  what  Concuity  the  crops  and  the 
products  of  husbandry  dignify,  also  predict  how  is  John  Carroll 
and  bis  wife  and  family.     My  brother  and  Myself  are  continu 


lyClOOglC 


TALL  WEITINQ. 


215 


aJlj  employed  and  oaeupied  in  similar  work.  Living  and  doing 
good.     Dictate  how  John  Mahony  wife  and  family  is 

Don't  you  permit  ohlivion  to  obstruct  you  from  inserting  this. 
Prognosticate  how  Mrs  Harriagton  is  and  if  she  accept  my  in. 
teUigence  or  any  convoy  from  either  of  Her  2  progenies  since 
their  embarkation  for  this  nation.  If  she  has  please  specify 
with  oongmous  and  elysian  gratitude  with  validity  and  veracity 
to  my  magnanimous  self. 

I  remit  my  respeots  to  my  former  friends  and  acquaintances. 
I  remain  D.  CoNNOtLY. 

P.  S.     Direct  your  Epistle  to  Pembroke,  State  of  Maine. 

Dear  brother-in-law 

I  am  determined  and  candidly  arrive  at  Corolary,  as  I  am 
fully  resolved  to  transfer  a  suffioieut  portion  of  money  to  you 
to  recompense  yonr  liabilities  from  thence  to  hence.  I  hope 
your  similar  operations  will  not  impede  any  occHrreace  that 
might  obstruct  your  progression  on  or  at  the  specified  time  the 
17  of  March  nest. 

SPANISH    PLAY-BILL, 
Exhibited  at  Semlh,  17(J2. 

To  the  Sovereign  of  Heaven — to  the  Mother  of  the  Eternal 
World — to  the  Polar  Star  of  Spain — to  the  Comforter  of  all 
Spain — to  the  faithfnl  Protectress  of  the  Spanish  nation — to 
the  Honor  and  Glory  of  the  Most  Holy  Virgin  Mary — for  her 
benefit  and  for  the  Propagation  of  her  Worship — the  Company 
of  Comedians  will  this  day  give  a  representation  of  the  Comic 
Piece  called—  NANTJN"E 

The  celebrated  Italian  will  nls,o  danet  the  F^-ndingo  and  the 
Theatre  will  be  respectably  dlummited 

In  a  medical  work  entitled  The  Bretmri''  of  Bealth,  pub 
lished  in  1547,  by  Andrew  Borde,  a  physician  of  that  penjd, 
is  a  prologue  addre-siad  to  physicians,  beginning  thns  — 

Egregious  doctors  and  masters  of  the  csimirus  and  arcane 
science  of  physio,  of  your  urbanity  esisperate  UDt  your'-ulve'* 
agM.nst  me  for  making  Ibis  little  volume 


lyGoogle 


TALL   WRIT  IN  O. 


THE   MAD  POET. 

McDonald  Clarke,  commonly  called  the  mad  poet,  died  a 
few  years  ago  in  the  Lunatic  Asylum  on  Blaokwell's  Island, 
New  York.     He  wrote  those  oft-quo.ted  lines, — 


In  his  wilder  moments  he  set  all  rules  at  d         . ., 

gled  the  etartlingly  sublime  and  the  laughably  ridieuious  in  the 
oddest  confusion.     He  talks  thus  madlj  of  Washington  : 

Eternitj— give  him  elbow  room ; 

A  spirit  lilEe  bia  la  laige ; 
Earth,  feoeo  with  artiilerj  iiis  tomb, 

And  fire  a  double  charge 
To  the  memory  of  America's  greatest  man : 
Match  him,  posterity,  if  70a  can. 

In  the  following  lines,  he  sketches,  with  a  few  bold  touches, 
a  well-known  place,  sometimes  called  a  rum-hole, : — 
Ha !  see  where  tha  nild-blazing  grogshop  appears. 
As  the  red  waves  of  wretohodneaa  swell  1 

5he  borrible  light-houae  of  hell ! 

poote's    PARBAGO. 
The  following  droll  nonsense  was  written  by  Poote,  the  dra- 
matist, for  the  purpose  of  trying  the  memory  of  Macklin,  who 
boasted  that  he  could  leam  any  thing  by  heart  on  hearing  it 

So  she  went  into  the  garden  to  cut  a  oabbage-Ieaf  to  make  an 
apple-pie  ;  and,  at  the  same  timo,  a  great  she-bear  coming  up 
the  street  pops  its  head  into  the  shop — What  I  no  soap  f  So  he 
died;  and  she  very  imprudently  married  the  barber:  and  there 
were  present  the  Picninnies,  and  the  Joblilies,  and  the  Qaryu- 
lies,  and  the  great  Panjandrum  himself,  with  the  little  round 
button  at  top.  And  they  all  fell  to  playing  the  game  of  "  catch 
as  catch  can,"  till  the  gunpowder  ran  out  of  the  heels  of  their 
boots ! 


lyGoogle 


TALL   'WaiTING, 


217 


BURLESQUE   OP   THE   STTLE    OP   IR    JOHNSON 

Willie  I  was  admiring  the  fanliatical  ramifieatiocs  i,t  '.ame 
nmbelhteroua  pknts  that  hung  ovei  the  margin  of  the  Liffey, 
the  tillaoi  us  bank,  impeiceplibly  corroded  by  the  ni  ist  tooth 
of  the  fluid,  gave  way  beneath  my  leet,  and  I  was  suddenly 
submerged  to  some  fathoms  of  piofundity  Presence  of  miod, 
in  constitutions  not  naturally  timid,  is  generally  in  proportion 
to  the  imminence  of  the  peril  Having  never  leirned  to  move 
through  the  water  in  horizontal  pio^ression,  had  I  despon  led 
I  had  perished,  but  being  for  a  moment  mised  above  the  cle 
ment  by  my  struggles,  or  by  some  felicitous  cdsuahy  I  waa 
sensible  ot  the  danger  and  immedntely  embraced  the  means 
ot  extrication  A  oow,  at  the  moment  of  my  lapse  had  en 
tered  the  stream,  within  tha  distance  of  a  piotruded  arm  and 
being  in  the  act  nf  transierse  navigation  to  seek  the  pa  ture  of 
the  jppobite  bank,  I  laid  hild  on  that  part  of  the  animal  which 
IS  loosely  pendent  behind,  and  is  formed  by  the  continuafiou  of 
the  vertebrffl  In  this  manner  I  was  safely  conveyel  to  a  fjrd 
able  passage  not  without  some  deleetition  from  the  lewe  1 1 
the  prcgreas  without  eflort  on  my  pait  and  the  eshiUrafing 
approximation  of  mjre  than  problematical  deltveranee  Though 
in  some  respects  I  leaembled  the  pilot  of  Gyas,  7am  ifwor 
madidaque  Jiuens  in  vesf,  yet  my  companions,  unlike  the  bai- 
barous  Phrygian  spectators,  forbore  to  acerbitate  the  uncouth- 
ness  of  embarrassment  by  the  insults  of  derision  Shrieks  of 
comploranee  testified  sorrow  for  my  submersion  and  safeti  was 
rendered  more  pkasant  by  the  felicitations  of  sympithy  As 
the  danger  wis  over,  I  toolt  no  umbrage  at  a  little  n-ibilLty  es 
oited  bj  the  feculence  ot  my  visage  upon  which  the  cow  had 
dischat^ed  hei  gramineous  digestion  in  a  very  ludn,rous  abun- 
dance About  this  time  the  bdi  summoned  us  to  dinner,  and 
as  the  cntanejus  contact  ut  irrigated  garments  is  neither  plea 
sant  nor  ailubnous  I  was  eaaily  persuaded  by  the  ladies  to 
divest  nivself  of  mine  Oolonel  Manly  obligingly  accom  no- 
dated  me  with  a  towering  of  camlet      I  found  it  comm 


lyClOOglC 


218  TA 

aud  more  agreeable  than  the  many  compressive  %ameata  of 
modern  drapery.  That  there  might  be  no  violation  of  decorum, 
I  took  care  to  have  the  looao  robe  fastened  before  with  small 
cylindrical  wires,  which  the  dainty  fingers  of  the  ladies  easily 
removed  from  their  dresses  and  inserted  into  mine,  at  such 
.  proper  intervals  as  to  leave  no  aperture  that  could  awaken  the 
eusceptibilitj  of  temperament,  or  provoke  the  cachinnations  of 

NEWSriPtR  ETJJjOUY 

The  following  alliterative  eubgy  on  i  you  ig  H  Jy  apppare  i 
many  >eirs  ago  in  a  newpipfr  — 

It  fioundleas  fienevt  lenue  6e  the  tasis  ot  Seatitude  an  1  Aarm 
Ils"  Auman  ty  a  fiarbmgei  of  fallowed  Aeait,  tbese  (^hnt<tn 
concomitants  composed  her  charactensdea  and  onoiliated  the 
esteem  f  her  cotemporary  acjuaintanees,  who  mean  to  model 
then  nianuei"  m  the  mould  ot  their  mentorioua  monitor 

CLEAR  AS   MUD 

In  a  enes  Df  i?i  lowphifoJ  E^'tay,  puhhihei  many  juib 
ago  the  author|  ives  s  i  e  Jefinitions  of  hum  in  knowlel^e 
the  following  of  whioh  he  considers  least  buoxious  to  oom 
prel  cnaion     — 

A  coincidence  between  the  a^soc  ition  f  ideas  and  the 
order  or  fcueccssion  ct  events  oi  phenomena  accorlia^  t  the 
relation  of  cau«e  and  pffect  and  in  whatever  is  subsidiary  r 
ntCLSSary  to  lealizi.  approximate  and  estenl  ?uch  ooincilence, 
understanding  by  the  relat  on  of  cause  and  effect  thit  order   r 


SThopeciUarB 

ale  nasa 

mdd 

mty  of  Johns 

ons  style  when 

api   el  to 

swill 

e  seeo  &om  the  nQore  la 

Aiud 

oioUB  i 

gy    n   r 

favorite 

Of  atl. 

ack  am 

ong  the  or  Uca 

i»"T1" 

,f  t,hB 

«ere  sho 

hnsoD 

atBdi 

of  Lord  DreghorQ 

the  hm 

"but 

■said 

he,    "I 

0  my  own 

Btjle  mueh  better 

njsclf." 

lyGoogle 


TALL   WETTING.  2 

th      d  7         d        1  pm      t      f  wl      li       mp 

,  11  g    t  b  by  m  f  pi       m 

f  g  t        ph      m         t  t     p  t    th 

t  h  t        ph      m  f  1 

f         ta      ph      m  d  t       mm  th  ni 

d    mp!  J  th  t    m        1 1 J       tl  tifi    t 

h  th  mpl  hm    t    t  h    p  ■p 


Idl 


d  t 


J 


8      — Y      h       bl       dlk  mp  t  ^I— Ik 

th  1'  Ith  fmymlltd 

J    h       m  1      1     gh     f  g   ymp         lly  th 

f        d  w  rd   wh    h  my  p  lym  th     g  w  h    b     ty  t 

blif,        h    to  g        f  th        gh  1         =i     y     1  ly 

pddmywp  da       th       hhyw       ta^.  I 

will      t  p       h         Iw     H    bl  1  th 

1  I    wh    h  h        h  m       d  my       d       p 

tbl    h    rt      I    m     1    t        t!     f      11  wh    h     y       dt  1 

fy         th  jwl        Iffdtobmyurt 

to        i    dm       1       I      11  p    k    f  th    1  pt  t  d      h      b 

Ipjyh         hw  bfgm  wh        g 

y         hidh  pp        hJwbmtll       1      t  SI 

11 J       to        yn    ph    aily      dwthtprr  wd 

th    g  will        d  bl     y  d     t  t     m        I  w 

y        htlwll      11      tej  ilthghynrmrald- 

tl  Id  be   h     by  1     f        d      If  I  th     gh     h  t  I   h     Id 

t    mp  e,  my      p  ta         by        1        d  g!  diat  G-o 

tagy      ph       y  q        t    d    w     bl    tat       f    m  th 

g  tpt  Mlto         ddwpy        hadths 

1  tt      wh    h  will  dn      y      toWbte        d       dytip 


"Knowledge  is  power,"  and  power  is  mercy;  so  I  wish 
0  roTOse  that  it  may  prove  an  external  hypo  otic. 


lyClOOglC 


AMURAL  ESTIVATION. 


The  foles,  languescent,  pi 
Hia  hnmid  front  the  cive 
And  dreams  of  orring  on 


To  me,  alaa  1  ao  verdnrous  vieions  oome, 
SsTo  yon  exiguous  pool's  oonferra-aonm ; 
No  oonoave  vast  repeats  the  tender  hue 
That  luves  my  milk-jug  iritli  oelestial  blue  I 
Me  wretched  I     Let  me  curr  to  quercine  ehades  t 
Effunil  70UT  elbid  hanets,  luctifarous  maidE  I 
Oh,  might  I  Tole  to  aome  umiirageous  olump, — 


;!  0/  the  Break/aM-Tahlt 


A   CHEIVIICAI.   VALENTINE. 
I  love  thae,  Marj,  njid  thou  loveat  me, 


'Tis  little  that  the  holy  marriage  tow 
Shall  shortly  make  ua  one.     That  unity 
Ib,  after  all,  but  metaphysical. 
Oh  !  would  that  I,  my  Maiy,  wera  an  Acid- 
Endowed  with  human  senao ;  that,  brought  together, 
We  both  might  ooalesoe  into  one  Salt, 
One  homogeneous  crystal.     Oh  that  thou 
Wart  Carbon,  and  myself  were  Hydrogen  ! 
We  w(iuld  unite  to  form  defiant  goa. 
Or  common  coal,  or  naphtha.  Would  to  heaven 
That  I  were  Phosphorus,  and  Ihou  wert  Lime, 
And  we  of  Lima  composed  a  Phospharott 
I'd  be  content  to  bo  Sulphuric  Acid, 
60  that  then  mightst  be  Soda.     In  that  nose, 
We  should  be  fliauber's  Salt-    Wert  thou  Magnesia 
Instead,  we'd  form  the  salt  that's  named  from  Epson 
Couldst  thou  Potassa  bo,  I  Aquafortis, 
Our  happy  union  should  tliat  compeuad  furm, 


lyGoogle 


Mlrate  of  Potash— otherwiae  Saltpetre. 
And  thns,  onr  sovcria  DatHreB  sweotly  blent, 
We'd  live  and  love  together,  until  deatli 
BLoald  decompose  this  flesiily  Tartium  Qnid, 


Agree  to  form  n  Jolinsonato  of  Brig, 
"We  will  1  tlic  day,  the  happy  day  is 
When  Johnson  ahttll  with  haantcoua 


THE   ANATOMiai 

list  as  thy  heart  and  a 
Their  Tolumes  of  Tali 
Boul  from  that  ■ 


TO   HIS   DTJLCINEA. 


w  life  'i 


is  the  I 


d  when  thy  yentrieles  fhrol 


Oh,  thy  oornea,  love,  has  the  radiant  light 

Of  the  sparlilB  that  laughs  m  the  icicle's  sheen ; 

And  thy  crystalline  lans,  like  a  diamond  bright. 
Through  the  quirering  frame  of  thine  iris  is  seen 

And  thy  retina,  spreading  its  lustre  of  pearl, 
Lilte  the  far-away  nebula,  distantly  gleams 

From  a  tault  of  blaofc  oelluiar  mirrors  tliat  hurl 
Brom  their  hesagon  angles  tho  silTary  beams. 

Ah  I  the  flash  of  those  orbs  is  enslaving  mo  still. 
As  they  roll  'neath  the  palpebrse,  dimly  transluoe 

Obeying  in  alienee  the  magical  will 

Of  the  oculo-motor— pathetic — abducent. 

Oh,  sweet  is  thy  Toieo,  as  it  sighmgly  swells 
From  the  daintily  quirering  chordte  vooalea, 

Or  rings  in  olear  tones  through  the  echoing  cells 
Of  the  antrum,  the  ethmoid,  and  sinus  frontalaa ! 


iindry  bougha  and  sptaya 


lyGoogle 


TALL   WRITING. 

the  birds  aforesaid,  iiappT  pure! 

Love  midsC  tlie  ufuresuid  buugbs  ensbi 
li)  household  ueats,  themaelveST  their  hei 

Administrators,  and  assigns. 
The  songs  of  the  said  birds  arosse 

The  memory  of  our  youthful  hours. 
As  young  and  green  as  tlie  said  boughs, 

As  fresh  and  fair  as  the  said  flowers. 
0  busiest  term  of  Cupid's  court! 

When  tender  plaintiffs  aationa  bring; 
Season  of  frolic  and  of  sport. 

Hail,  as  aforesaid,  coming  Spring! 


PRISTINE    PROVERBS    PREPARED    FOR    PRECOCIOUS    PUPILS. 

Observe  yon  plumed  biped  fiae  I 

To  effect  his  oaptivation. 
Deposit  particles  saline 

Upon  his  termination. 
Cryptogamoua  concretion  never  grows 
On  mineral  fragments  that  decline  repose. 
Whilst  BBlf-iospection  itnegleota. 

Nor  its  own  foul  oonditinn  sees. 
The  kettle  to  the  pot  objects 

Its  sordid  superficies. 
Deoortioationa  of  the  golden  graiD 
Are  Eel  to  allure  lie  aged  fowl,  in  vain. 
Teaoh  not  a  parent's  mother  to  estraot 

The  embryo  juioes  of  an  egg  by  suction : 
That  good  old  lady  oan  the  Fe«t  enact, 

Quite  irrespeotlTe  of  your  kind  instrnotion. 

To  stimulate  to  speed  the  female  horse. 
Bear  not  to  yon  famed  city  upon  Tyne 
The  carbouaceoBS  product  of  the  mine. 
The  mendicant,  once  from  his  indigence  freed, 
And  mounted  aloft  on  the  generous  steed, 
Down  the  precipice  soon  will  iBfaUibly  go, 
And  oonolnde  his  career  in  the  regions  below. 
It  is  permitted  to  the  feline  race 
To  contemplate  STeu  a  regal  face. 


lyGoogle 


METKio  raosE. 


Quid  tentaham  xiribere  veis.i3  6,«I.— Ov!D. 
COWPEB'S   LEITER  TO   NEWTON. 

The  following  letter  was  written  to  Rev.  John  Newfon,  by 
William  Cowper,  in  reference  to  a  poem  0)1  Vkariii/.,  by  the 

My  very  dear  friend,  I  am  going  to  send,  what  when  you 
have  read,  you  may  scratch  your  head,  and  say  I  aupposo, 
there's  nobody  knows,  whether  what  I  have  got,  be  verse  or 
not; — by  tke  tune  and  the  time,  it  ought  to  be  rhyme;  but  if 
it  be,  did  ever  you  see,  of  late  or  of  yore,  suoh  a  ditty  before? 

I  have  writ  "Charity,"  not  for  popularity,  but  as  well  as  I 
could,  in  hopes  to  do  good;  and  if  the  "Reviewer"  should  say 
to  be  sure,  the  gentleman's  muse  wears  Methodist  shoes,  you 
may  know  by  her  pace,  and  t^k  about  grace,  that  she  and  her 
bard  have  little  regard  for  the  tastes  and  feshions,  and  ruling 
passions,  and  hoydening  play,'  of  the  modem  day ;  and  though 
she  assume  a  borrowed  plume,  and  now  and  then  wear  a  titter- 
ing aJr,  'tis  only  her  plan,  to  catch  if  she  can,  the  ^ddy  and 
gay,  as  they  go  that  way,  by  a  production  of  a  new  conatrue- 
tion ;  she  has  baited  her  trap,  in  the  hope  to  snap  all  that  nmy 
come,  with  a  sugar-plum.  His  opinion  in  this  will  not  be 
amiss;  'tis  what  I  intend,  my  principal  end;  and  if  I  succeed, 
and  folks  should  read,  til!  a  few  are  brought  to  a  serious  thought, 
-I  shall  think  I  am  paid  for  all  I  have  said,  and  all  I  have  done, 
although  I  have  ran,  many  a  time,  after  a  rhyme,  aB  far  as 
from  hence  to  the  end  of  my  sense,  and  by  hook  or  by  crook, 
write  another  book,  if  I  live  and  am  here  another  year. 

I  have  heard  before  of  a  room  with  a  fioor,  laid  upon  spring, 
and  such-like  things,  with  so  much  art  in  eveiy  part,  that  when 
you  went  in,  you  were  forced  to  begin  a  minuet  pace,  with  an 
ing  about,  now  in  and  now  out,  with  a 


lyGoogle 


224  METRIC   PROSE. 

deal  of  a  state,  in  a  figure  of  eigbt,  without  pipe  or  stm^,  or 
any  such  thiog;  and  now  I  have  writ,  m  a  ihymrog  fit,  what 
will  make  you  dance,  and,  ab  you  ddvinoe,  will  keep  you  still 
though  against  your  will,  danung  away,  aleit  and  ^y,  till  j  u 
come  to  an  end  of  what  I  have  penned,  whn,h  that  you  may 
do,  ere  madam  and  you  are  quite  worn  out  with  jigj^ing  about 
I  take  my  leave,  and  hero  you  rtjteive  a  how  profound  down 
to  the  giuund,  from  you  humble  me — W,  C. 

EXAMPLE   IN   IRVING'S   NEW  YORK. 

The  following  remarkable  instance  of  involuntary  poetic 
proso  occurs  in  Knickerbocker's  humorous  history  of  New  York, 
near  the  commencement  of  the  Sixth  Book : — 

The  gallant  warrior  starts  from  soft  repose,  from  golden 
visions  and  voluptuous  ease;  where,  in  the  didcet  "piping 
time  of  peace,"  he  sought  sweet  solace  after  all  his  toils, 
more  in  beauty's  elren  lap  reclined,  he  weaves  f  ' 
for  his  lady's  brows;  no  more  entwines  with  flowers  his  shining 
sword,  nor  through  the  livelong  summer's  day  chants  forth 
his  love-sick  soul  in  madrigals.  To  manhood  roused,  he  spurns 
the  amori  lus  flute,  doffs  from  his  brawny  back  the  robe  of  peace, 
and  clothes  his  pampered  limbs  in  panoply  of  steel.  O'er  his 
dark  brow,  where  late  the  myrtle  waved,  where  wanton  roses 
breathed  enervate  love,  he  rears  the  beaming  casque  and  nod- 
ding plume;  grasps  the  bright  shield  and  ponderous  lance,  or 
mounts  with  eager  pride  his  fiery  steed,  and  burns  for  deeds  of 
glorious  chivalry. 

In  D'Israeli's  Wonrlrous  Tale  of  Ahoj/,  arc  remarkable 
specimens  of  prose  poetry.     For  example ; — 

Why  iiin  Ibere?  are  you  not  tere?  and  need  I  urge  a  atrongec  plea? 


Oh,  hrother  dear,  I  pray  yon 

ome  and  mingle  in  our  feativa 

are  hung  with  flgwers  jou  lov 

e  i  I  culled  them  by  the  founta 

h»ly  Umpa  a«  trimmed  and 

et,  and  you  must  raise  theit 

WUhout  the  gal«  niy  maiden 

wait  to  offer  you  a  robe  ot 

brother  dear,  I  pray  you  com 

and  mingle  in  our  festival. 

lyGoogle 


nelly's   rUNERAL. 

In  Home's  JVew  Spirit  of  ihe  Ag  — a  ser  es  of  cr  t  c  ma 
on  eminent  living  authors, — we  find  an  admmible  esampl  ot 
prose  poetry  tliua  noticed  : — 

A  curious  oireuTustanee  is  observible  n  a  great  port  on 
of  the  scenes  of  tragic  power,  pathos,  and  tend  es*:  con  ned 
in  TariouB  parts  oi'  Mr.  Dickens's  worlds  wl  ch  t  s  poaa  ble 
may  have  been  the  result  of  harmon  ous  ace  d  at  and  tl  e 
author  not  even  subsequently  conscious  of  it  It  s  tl  t  they 
are  written  in  blank  verse,  of  irrogulai  n  ctre  and  rl  ytl  mf 
which  Southey,  and  Shelley,  and  son  e  other  joets  1  ave  oo  3- 
aionally  adopted.  Witness  the  following  descr  pt  on  from  Tl  e 
Old  Cwiodli/  S/top. 

And  now  tho  bell— the  boll 
6ho  had  50  often  heard  by  night  and  day 


So  young,  BO  beautiful,  so  good. 

Decrepit  ago,  nnd  vigoroua  life, 
And  blooming  joutb,  nnd  helpless  infanoj 
Ponrad  forth— on  Ofntchoa,  in  the  pride  of 

And  hciilth,  in  tho  full  blush 
Of  promise — tho  mere  dawn  of  lifo— 
Togatli' 


Wlios. 


<  n-cre  dim 
fnliing- 

,  who  might  h.ive  died  tan  years  ago, 
n  old— the  deaf,  the  blind,  the  lame, 

"sing  of  thia  early  grave  ! 

13  tho  death  itwouldehnt  in, 

h  still  would  crawl  and  creep  aboTo  it 


Along  the  crowded  path  th 

Thatooveredit;  whose  daj 
Had  been  so  fleeting. 


lyGoogle 


METRIC   PROSE. 


Eeoeived  hw  in  its  quiet  shade. 


Throughout  the  whole  of  the  above,  only  two  ucimportaut 
words  have  heen  omitted — in  and  its  ;  "  granddamea"  has  been 
substituted  for  "grandmothers,"  and  "e'en"  for  "almost." 
All  that  renmna  is  exactly  as  in  the  original,  not  a  single  word 
transposed,  and  the  punctuation  the  same  to  a  comma.  The 
brief  homilj  that  concludes  the  funeral  is  profoundly  beautiful. 

Oh  t  it  is  hard  to  talie 
The  lesGDD  that  snch  deaths  nill  tcsioh, 
Bat  let  no  man  reject  it, 
For  it  ia  one  that  all  must  learn 
And  ia  a  mightj  univeraa!  Truth. 
When  Death  atrikes  down  the  innooant  and  young, 
For  ever  J  ftagilo  form  from  which  ho  lots 
The  parting  Bpirjt  free, 
A  hundred  virtues  riae, 
In  ehapes  of  morcj,  charity,  and  Iotb, 
To  walk  the  world  and  bless  it. 
Of  every  tear 
That  sorrowing  mortals  shcci  on  ancli  green  gravea. 

Not  a  word  of  the  original  is  changed  in  the  above  quo- 
tation, which  is  worthy  of  the  host  passages  in  Wordsworth, 
and  thus,  meeting  on  the  common  giound  of  a  deeply  truthful 
sentiment,  the  two  most  unlike  men  in  the  literature  of  the 
country  are  brought  into  close  proximation. 

The  following  similar  passage  is  from  the  concluding  para- 
graph o£  Nicholas  NicMehy  : — 

The  grass  waa  green  ahove  the  dead  boy's  grave, 
Trodden  by  feet  ao  small  and  light, 


Through  all  the  apriii 

Qarlanda  of  fresh  flowera, 

Bested  upos  the  stem 


lyGoogle 


NIAGARA. 

e  rlijthmie  cadence  is  observable  in  the  fuUowing 


Ithi 


1  verbatim  from  the  Ainerican  Nott 
n  every  quiet 


-a  roll,  and  leap,  and 
And  tnmlile  all  day  long ; 
Still  are  the  lainbnws  spanning  them 

A  hundred  feet  below. 
Still  when  the  sua  is  on  them,  do  they  si 
And  glow  lilie  molten  gold. 

la  gloomy  do  t 


Like  snow,  or  seem  U 


mble  awny, 
halk  eliff, 


But  always  does  this 

To  die  ae  it  oomes  c 

And  always  from  the 


Whioh  has  haunt«d  this  place 
With  tlie  same  dread  solemn ity, 

Since  darkneas  hronded  on  the  deep 
And  that  first  flood  before  the  Deluge— Light 

Came  rushing  on  Oreution  at  the  word  of  God. 

To  iiny  one  who  reads  this  we  need  not  eaj  tliat  but  three 
lines  in  it  vary  at  all  from  tbe  closest  requisitions  of  an  iambic 
movement.  The  measure  is  precisely  of  the  kind  which  Mr. 
Sbuthey  so  often  used.  For  the  reader's  convenience,  we  copy 
from  Tkalaba  his  well  remembered  lines  on  Night,  as  an  in- 
stance : — - 

How  beautiful  is  Right! 


Hon 


St  obsc 


lo  of  hca 


In  full  orbed  glory  yonder  Moon  diyine 

Rolls  throngh  the  dark  blue  depths. 

Beneath  her  steady  ray 

The  desert  oirole  spreads. 
Like  the  ronnd  ooean,  girdled  with  the  sky. 

How  beautiful  is  Night! 


lyClOOglC 


INVOLUNTARY  VERSIFrCATION  IN  THE  SCRIPT  OB  ES, 

Tlie  texametric  cadence  in  the  authorized  translation  of  the 
Bible  has  been  pointed  out  in  another  portion  of  this  volume. 
It  is  very  noticeable  in  such  passages  as  these,  for  example,  from 
tie  Second. Psalm: — 

in  r^e  and  the  people  imagine  a  yain  thing  ? 

rs  take  counsel  together. 

The  anapsestic  cadence  prevalent  in  the  Psalms  is  also  very 
remarkable : — 

Thai  will  bring  forth  his  fruit  in  due  Eeason.— t.  B 
WhatsoBtor  he  doth  it  stiall  prosper.— v.  4. 
Away  from  the  face  of  the  earth.— v.  S. 
Be  able  to  stand  in  tile  judgment— v.  6. 
The  way  of  th'  ungodly  shall  perish.— v.  7. 

Couplets  may  be  drawn  from  the  same  inspired  source,  as 
follows; — 

Great  peace  have  they  tbat  love  thy  law : 

And  nothing  shall  offend  them.— Ppalni,  esis.  185. 

Thou  wilt  lieep  him  in  perfect  peace 
Whose  mind  is  stayed  oH  thee.— Isaiah,  xivi.  3. 

"When  his  branch  is  yet  tender^  and  putteth  forth  leaves, 
Ye  know  that  the  summet  is  nigh.— Matthew,  sxiv.  32. 

UNINTENTIONAL  EHTMES  OF  PROBERS. 

The  delicate  ear  of  Addison,  who  would  atop  the  press  to  add 
a  conjunction,  or  erase  a  comma,  allowed  this  inelegant  jingle 
to  escape  his  detection: — 

What  I  am  going  to  menlioii,  will  perhaps  deserve  your  allexlinn. 

Dr.  Whewell,  when  Master  of  Trinity  College,  fell  into  a 
similar  trap,  to  the  great  amusement  of  his  readers.  In  his 
work  on  Mccha-nics,  he  happened  to  write  literatim,  and  verhatiin, 
though  not  lineatim,  the  following  tetrastich; — 

There  is  no  force,  however  great. 


lyClOOglC 


A  curious  instance  of  involuntary  rhythm  occurs  in  President 
Lincoln's  Second  Inaugural  Address : — 
Fondly  do  we  hope, 

Fervently  do  we  pray, 
Tbut  this  mighty  scourge  of  wot 

Mny  epesdily  pftsa  away : 
Yet  if  be  Sod'a  will 
That  it  oontJQue  until— " 

but  here  the  strain  abiTiptly  ceases,  and  the  President  relapses 
into  prose. 

In  the  course  of  a  discussion  upon  the  involuntary  metre 
into  which  Shakspeare  so  fi-equently  fell,  when  he  intended  his 
minor  characters  to  apeak  prose,  Dr.  Johnson  observed; 

"Such  verse  we  make  when  wo  are  writing  proBO; 
Wh  make  anoh  verse  in  commott  conversation." 

Kcmble  and  Mrs.  Siddons,  from  their  habit  of  eonimitting 
to  memory  and  reciting  dramatic  blank  verse,  unconsciously 
made  their  most  ordinary  observations  in  that  measure.  Kemble, 
for  instance,  on  giving  a  ehilling  to  a  beggar,  thus  answered 
the  surprised  look  of  his  companion: — 
'■  It  is  not  ofton  that  I  do  tl 


I  do,  I  do  I 


And  once  when,  in  a  walk  with  Walter  Scott  on  the  banks  of 
"the  Tweed,  a  dangerous  looking  bull  made  his  appearance,  Scott 
took  the  water,  Kemble  exclaimed  ; — 

"  Sheriff,  I'll  get  me  up  in  yonder  tree." 

The  presence  of  danger  usually  makes  a  mao  speak  naturally, 
if  anything  will.  If  a  reciter  of  blank  verse,  then,  fall  uncon- 
sciously into  the  rhythm  of  it  when  intending  to  speak  prose, 
much  more  may  an  habitual  writer  of  it  be  expected  to  do  so. 
Instances  of  the  kind  from  the  table-talk  of  both  Kemble  and 
his  sister  might  be  multiplied.     This  of  Mrs.  SiddonS, — 

"  I  asked  for  water,  boy ;  youVe  brought  ma  beer, -" 

is  one  of  the  best  known. 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS   OF   VERS  IF  IC  ATI  ON. 

SC^E  l^umors  of  Versification. 

THE   LOVERS. 


Sally  Salter,  she  waa  a  jouBg  teacher  who  taught. 

Arid  ber  friend,  Charley  Church,  waB  a  preacher,  who  praugbtl 

Though  hi3  cixeinLea  ealled  hiiu  a  acreecher,  who  acraoght. 

Hie  heart,  irhen  he  saw  her,  kept  einlimg,  and  sunk; 

And  his  eye,  meaUng  hers,  began  winking,  and  wunk; 

While  she,  in  har  turn,  fell  to  thinking,  and  thunk. 

H«  hastened  to  woo  ter,  and  sweetly  he  wooed. 

For  his  love  grew  until  to  a  mountain  it  grcwed, 

And  what  he  waa  longing  to  do,  then  he  doed. 

In  seeret  he  wanted  to  speak,  and  he  spoke. 

To  aeek  with  hia  lips  what  his  heart  long  had  soke; 

So  he  managed  to  let  the  truth  leak,  and  it  loke. 

He  asked  her  to  ride  to  the-  church,  and  they  rode ; 

They  so  sweetly  did  ghde,  that  they  both  thought  they  glodo, 

And  they  came  to  the  place  to  be  tied,  and  were  tode. 

Then  homeward  he  said  let  ns  drive,  and  they  drove. 
And  soon  aa  they  wished  to  arrive,  they  arrove; 
For  whatever  ha  oonldn't  contrive,  she  oontrove. 

The  kisB  he  was  dying  to  steal,  then  he  stole ; 

At  the  feet  where  he  wanted  to  kneel,  then  he  knole; 

And  he  said,  "I  feel  bettor  than  ever  I  fole." 


Sally  wanted  to  eatoh,  and  had  caught — 
wanted  from  others  to  snatch,  and  had  snaught— 
ne  she  now  liked  to  scratch,  and  she  scraught. 


And  Charley's^ 
While  he  took  t- 
The  girl  he  had 

teasing 
wished  b 

began 
obesa 

Ereea 
uelly 

n^^  and  ftoie 

tOZB 

g,  and  sqno. 

"Wretch 
"How  00 

'he 

id  JO 

ried,  wh 

□  she  threat 
as  you  hav 

efti"^™ 

lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS   OF    VERSIFICATION. 


A   STAMMERING   WIPE. 
When  deeply  in  love  with  Misa  Emily  Pryne, 
1  vowed  if  tho  lady  would  only  be  mine, 
I  would  alwaja  be  ready  to  please  her; 
She  blushed  her  consent,  though  the  stuttering  lass 
Said  never  a  word  cioopt  "You're  an  ass — 


Auai 


bss— iduo 


ay-if  I 


tured  t! 


a  jog 


In  the  way  of  reproof— "  You're  a  dog — dog— dog — 

A  dog — a  dog — matio  curmudgeon!" 
And  onoe,  when  I  said,  "Ws  can  hardly  afford 
This  immoderate  style  with  our  moderate  board," 

And  hinted  we  ought  to  be  iriser. 
She  looked,  I  assure  yon,  ezeeedingly  blue. 
And  fretfully  cried,  "You're  a  Jew — Jew — Jew — 

A  very  ju-dicious  adviser!" 
Again,  when  it  happened  that,  wishing  to  shirk 
Some  rather  unpleasant  and  ardaoua  work, 

I  begged  her  to  go  to  a  neighbor. 
She  wanted  to  know  why  I  made  auch  a  fuss, 
And  saucily  said,  "You're  a  cuss — suse — ousa — 

Yon  were  always  ac — ous — tomed  to  labor  1" 
Out  of  temper  at  last  with  the  insolent  dame. 
And  feeling  the  woman  was  greatly  to  blame, 


-  speech,  like  i 


telai 


And  angrily  sa 

d.  "T 

nu 

eada 

A  dam-age  in 

tead 

f 

iblesBi 

ttg." 

A    SOiN 

WITI 

VARIATIOI^S. 

[SCBNE 

—Wife  at  the  plan 

0!  be 

la 

of  ft  !i 

»band,  who  h 

r  music 

than  his  boot,  in  a 

nadjo 

n 

agapa 

tmenl,  making 

Oh!  do  not  chide 

f  Iwe. 

Come,  wlf 

thisb 

Snob  pain  a 

mine 

a  never 

sleep!- 

lyGoogle 


THE    HUMORS   OF    VERSIFICATION. 


venomed  dai-t!— 
It's  enough  to  make  a  parson  swearl 
When  faith  in  man  is  given  up— 
How  piftguej  Bhiftless  are  some  womenl 

I'll  hare  ti  get  mj  other  linen. 
And  to  its  lees  the  white  lips  quaff— 

Smith  Bays  he'e  coming  in  to-night. 
While  Mftlioe  yields  hot  mocking  laugh  !— 

With  Mra.  S.,  and  Jones  and  WrighL 
Oh  I  oonld  I  stifle  in  ray  breast — 

And  Jones  will  bring  some  prime  old  eharry. 
This  aching  heart,  and  give  it  rest,— 

We'll  want  soms  eggs  for  Tom-and-Jerrj 
Could  Lathe's  waters  o'er  me  roll,— 

These  stoofeings  would  look  better  mended  I 
And  bring  oblivion  to  my  soul,^ 

When- wll  I  -you  -have-Ui  at-d  itty-ettded  ? 
Then  haply  I,  in  other  skies,— 

We'd  belter  have  the  oysters  fried. 
Might  find  the  love  that  earth  denicsl 

There!  now  at  last  my  dickey's  tied! 

THOUGHTS   WllUfi   SHE  ROCKS   THE  CRABLB. 
What  is  the  little  one  thinking  about? 
Very  wonderful  thing,  no  doubt, 

UnfathomablB  oiyBferj ! 
But  he  laughs  and  cries,  and  eats  and  drinks, 
And  chuckles  and  orows,  and  nods  and  winks. 
As  if  hie  head  were  as  full  of  kinks. 
And  curious  riddles,  as  any  sphinx ! 
Warped  by  collo  aad  wet  by  tears, 
Punetnred  by  pins,  and  tortured  bj  fears. 
Our  little  nephew  will  lose  two  years; 
And  hell  never  know 
Where  the  summers  go  ^ 
He  need  not  laugh,  for  he'U  find  it  so ! 
Who  oao  tall  w^at  the  baby  thinks? 
Who  can  follow  the  gossamer  links 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS   OP   VERSIFICATION. 

By  which  the  mftnikin  feels  his  way 
Ont  from  the  shores  of  the  great  uuknowa. 
Blind,  and  wailiog,  and  alone. 

Into  the  light  of  day  f 


Toasiag  in  pitiful  agony  1 
Of  « 


Speoked  vith  th 
Barks  that  nere 
And  slipped  fro 


I  and  rolls,  - 


little  S(. 


>n  the  other  Bida, 
leaves  on  as  ebbing  tide ! 
>e  thiuk  of  bis  mother'a  ey«s? 
What  does  he  think  of  hie  mother'B  hair  ? 

What  of  the  cradle  roof  that  flies 
fforward  and  baobward  through  the  air? 

What  do^  be  think  of  his  niothei''s  breast — 
Eare  and  beaotiful,  smooth  and  white, 
Seeking  it  ever  with  fresh  delight- 
Cup  of  bis  joy  and  caneh  of  his  rest  ? 
What  does  he  think  when  her  quick  embrace 
PreaSBs  his  hand  and  buries  his  face 
Deep  where  the  heart-throbs  sink  and  swell 
With  a  tendemaas  she  can  never  tell. 

Though  sbe  murmur  the  words 

Of  aU  the  birdth- 
Words  she  has  learned  to  murmur  well? 

Now  he  thinks  he'll  go  to  sleep  t 

I  oau  see  the  shadow  creep 

Over  his  eyes,  in  soft  eclipse, 

Over  bis  brow,  and  over  his  lipa, 

Ont  to  his  little  fioger  dps, 
■  Softly  sinking,  down  he  goes ! 

Down  ho  goes !  down  he  goes ! 

lEi^ug  end  ™r-/,,Hy  re,ve..ti,.g  lo  her  «„(.] 

Sea !  he  is  hashed  in  sweet  repose ! 

A    SERIO-COMIC    ELEGY. 

In  his  "  Coramon-Place  Book,"  the  late  Archhishop  Whatelj 
records  the  following  Elegy  on  the  late  geologist,  Dr.  Buckland: 

Where  shall  we  our  great  professor  inter. 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS    OF   VERSIIICATION. 


If  with  matf* 

ck  and  spado 

is  body 

we  lay 

lou  aUuvial  si 

1, 

He'll  start  up 

and  Bnatoh  th 

ise  tools 

away 

Of  hia  own 

geological  toll 

OfcBBOr 

diadains 

That  cmbedd 

B organ 

0  remains. 

Then  esposei 

to  the  drip  of 

Bome  oa 

1st  atalaotito  o 

And  in  Oxford  the  petrified 

When  he  13 

enomsted  all 

Ter; 

A   REMINISCENCE   01   TROY. 


TydidaB,  Phooaa,  Castor,  and  the  rest — 
Some  wliittliug  shingles  and  some  stringing  bows, 


Yon  see  how  oi-ltlie  ace  the  ox-fed  men; 

You  see  how  sheepish  mutton -ealara  grow. 
Stiofc  to  this  vegetable  food  of  mine: 

Men  who  eat  pork  grant,  root  and  Bleep  like  swine." 

Bojne  laughed,  and  some  grew  mad,  and  some  grew  red: 
The  pork  was  hissing;  but  his  point  i«i«  clear. 

Still  no  one  anewered  him,  till  Nestor  said, 
"  One  inference  that  I  would  draw  is  here ; 

You  Ti^ctarianB,  who  thus  educate  us. 

Thus  far  havo  turned  out  very  small  polatoos." 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS   or 


Those  who  are  familiar  with  Mr.  Lowell's  Fable  for  Critics, 
will  remember  the  lines : — 

There  is  Bryant,  as  qniet,  as  oool,  and  as  dignified. 

As  a  smooth,  silent  iceberg,  that  never  is  ignifiea. 

Save  when  by  refleetion  'tis  kindled  'o  nights 

With  a  semblance  of  flame  by  the  ohill  Northern  Lights. 

He  may  ranlt  (Griawold  aajs  bo)  first  bard  of  jour  nadon; 

(There's  no  doubt  be  stands  in  supreme  ioe-olation,) 

Your  topmoBt  Parnassus  he  may  sot  his  heel  on, 

Bot  no  nann  applauses  oorae,  peal  fullowiBg  peal  on — 

He's  loo  smooth  and  too  polished  to  bang  any  aeal  on ; 

Unqualified  merits,  I'U  grant,  if  you  ohooBe,  he  bas  'em. 

But  he  laoka  the  one  merit  of  iindling  enthusiasm; 

If  he  alir  you  at  all,  it  is  jna't,  on  my  soul, 

Like  being  stirred  up  by  the  very  Nortb  Pole. 

The  Cambridge  wit  has  either  misjudged  the  character  of 
Bryant's  genius,  or  he  has  sacrificed  a  man  to  an  epigram,  and 
subordinated  feet  to  ajew  d'esprit.  Though  "quiet  and  digni- 
fied," Mr.  Bryant  possesses  a  rare  vein  of  humor,  but  its 
bubbling  fancies  are  not  generally  known  or  suspected  for 
the  reason  that  he  unbends  anonymously.  Only  one  of  the 
diversions  of  his  muse  appears  in  his  published  works — and 
that  is  his  invocation  "  To  a  Mosquito,"  which  begins  thus : — 

Ftut  insect!  that  with  thread-like  legs  spread  oot. 
And  blood-extraeting  bill  and  filmy  wing. 

Dost  mnrmuT,  as  thou  slowly  sail'st  pboat. 
In  pitiless  ears  full  many  a  plaintive  thing. 

And  iBll  how  little  our  largB  veins  would  bleed. 

Would  we  but  yield  them  to  thy  bitter  need. 

One  day,  when  Mr.  Bryant  discovered  in  a  fresh  number 
of  the  AtkiTitic  Monthly  a  so-called  poem,  which  struck  bim  as 
uncommonly  absurd,  he  sat  down  and  produced  a  travesty  of 
it,  which  was  much  more  effective  in  its  ridicule  than  any 
sharper  criticism  could  have  been  made.  Here  are  the  two 
in  conjunction ; — 


lyGoogle 


rHE    HUMORS   OF    VERSIFICATiON. 

THE   "ATLANTIC"   POEM. 

Stouter  than  the  breath  that  blowe; 
Nigbt  SbTid  sorrow  clin^  irx  vaiu; 
It  most  tus3  ia  da;  again. 
Hnspital  iind  battle -field, 
Myriad  sjiotB  wbere  fate  ia  sealed, 
BrinlEs  that  am  table,  sins  that  urge. 
Plunge  again  iuto  the  surge. 


Squint-e;«d  bocchunals  at  pla;, 
Eeep  a  Ljbian  holida;. 
Leading  trains  of  Eulumn  apes, 
Tipsj  with  tbe  blood  of  grapes. 
Port  J  furies— thirty  more 
Tban  old  Milton  bad  before— 
Scattering  sparkles  friim  Iheir  hai 


Since  whicL  time  nothing  has  been  heard  of  the  Atlantic 
poet!  Only  those  who  were  "behind  the  scenes,"  in  the 
office  of  the  Uvening  Post,  in  the  year  1863,  knew  the  author- 
ship of  the  burlesque — and  the  burlesque  itself  mill  never 
appear  ia  the  poet's  "collected  works." 

ON   RECEIPT    OF  A   RARE   PIPE. 
I  lifted  off  the  lid  willi  anxious  osre, 

Eemoved  the  wrappnges,  stripe  after  etripe. 
And  when  the  hidden  contents  wero  laid  bare, 


lyClOOglC 


THE   nUMORS   or   VERSiri  CATION. 


MuQjited  Witt  metal  bright— ft  sight  to  fCi 
With  the  rich  umber  hue  tbat  emukcrs  priie 

Attesting  both  its  age  aad  pedigree. 
A  pipe  to  make  the  Rojul  Fcicdrlch  jealous, 

Or  the  great  Teufelsdtiiok  wicUenvj  grijii 
A  man  ehuuld  hold  some  rank  above  his  fell 

Tu  justity  his  emokiug  suob  a  Pipel 
What  country  gave  it  birth?     What  blest  ol 

Saw  it  first  kindle  at  the  glowing  coat? 
What  happy  artist  murmured,  "A'uhc  diniiti 

When  he  had  fushioned  this  transcendent 


Has  it 


Did  th«  great  Khalif  in  bis  "House  of  Pleasures" 

Wager,  and  lose  it  to  the  good  Zuafar  P 
It  may  hove  soothed  mild  Spenser's  melanaholj. 


Did  it,  safe  bidden  in  some  seeret  oavern. 

Escape  that  monarch's  pipoolaEtlo  ken  ? 
Hns  Shakespeare  smoked  it  at  the  Mermaid  Tavern, 

Qunffing  a  oup  of  sack  with  rare  old  Ben? 
Ay,  ShakespBHre  might  have  watched  his  vast  creatioi 

Loom  thrOBgb  its  smoke— the  Epectre-liaunted  Than 
The  Sisters  at  their  ghastly  invocations, 

The  jealous  Moor  and  melancholy  Dane. 


ts  orbed  haze  and  through 

s  mazy  ringlets 

a  may  have  led  her  elfin  ro 

t, 

fanned  it  with  his  gauzy  w 

iglets. 

k  danced  in  the  bowl  to  pu 

it  out. 

all  fonoies— questions  brin 

no  answer  i 

nokers  vanish,  but  the  pipe 

remains; 

indeed  a  subtle  1 


Could  read  their 


lyClOOglC 


THE   HUMORS   OF   VBKSinCATION, 

And,  treasured  by  so  me  antiquarian  Stultns, 

Labeled,  "Tlie  symbol  of  some  ancient  Cultaa, 

Conjeoturaliy  Phallio,  but  uukdvrn." 
Why  do  I  thus  recall  the  ancient  quarrel 
.     'Twijit  Man  and  Time,  that  marks  all  earthly  thin 
Why  labor  to  re-wotd  the  hackneyed  moral, 
'Os  ^XXm  yertii,  as  Homer  sings  ? 

Some  feelings  claim  exemption  from  decay; 
And  Love,  of  which  this  pipe  was  but  the  token. 
Shall  last,  though  pipes  and  smokers  pass  away. 


THE   HUMAN   EAR, 

A  sound  came  booming  through  tbe  ai 
'  "What  is  tbat  sound?"  quoth  I. 
My  blue-eyed  pet,  with  golden  hair. 


That  sound— it  was  Saint  Pancraa  Bel 
My  own  Louise,  put  down  the  eat. 

And  come  and  stand  by  me; 
I'm  ead  M  hear  you  talk  like  that, 

Whers'a  your  philosophy? 
That  sound— attend  to  what  I  tell- 
That  sound  was  aol  Saint  Poncras  Eel! 
"Sound  is  the  name  the  sa^e  selects 

For  the  concluding  larm 
Of  a  long  series  of  effects, 

Of  which  that  blow's  tho  germ. 
Tho  following  brief  analysis 
Shows  the  interpolations.  Miss. 
"  The  blow  whioh,  when  the  clapper  slipi 

Falls  on  your  friend  the  Bell, 
Changes  its  oirole  to  ellipse, 

(A  word  you'd  better  spell). 
And  then  oomea  elasticity. 
Restoring  what  it  osed  to  be. 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS   OF   VERHIFICATION. 


(You 


;  not  attending,  I'm  afraid). 


"This  ohangB  of  form  disturbs  the  (u 
Wliiah  in  its  tare  behatea 
In  like  elnstio  fashion  there. 
Creating  waves  on  waves; 
Which  press  eaoli  other 


Undl 


Inds  yon 


IT  the  surgeons  find 

A  Igmpauam,  or  drigu, 
Which  has  a  little  bone  behind, — 

Malleva,  it's  oalled  bj  BOmei 
But  tbose  not  proud  of  I/atin 
Humbly  translate  it  as  the  Bammei 


"The  1 


itionB  this 


Thel 


it  peoplB  ci 


"The  liapes  next— the  name  reeallB 
A  stirrap's  form,  mj  daughter — 
Joins  thrse  half-oirenlar  camJs, 
Each  filled  wilh  limpid  water; 
Their  ourious  lining,  jon'li  observe, 
Made  of  the  auditory  nerve. 

"This  vibrates  neit^and  then  we  find 

The  mystic  work  is  crowned ; 

For  then  my  daughter's  gentle  Mind 

First  recognises  sound- 
See  wbat  a  host  of  oauses  swell 
To  make  up  what  you  call  'the  Bell.'" 


Awhile  she  paused,  my  bright  I 
And  pondered  on  the  case; 

Then,  settling  that  he  meant  to 
She  slapped  her  father's  face. 


juiee, 


lyClOOglC 


THE   HUMORS   OF 

SIB   tray:    an   ARTHURIAN   IDYL. 

The  Bidowed  Dame  of  Hubbard's  HQeiont  Une 
Turned  fo  her  cupboard,  cornered  anglewise 
Betwixt  this  wall  and  that,  in  quest  of  aught 
To  satisfy  the  eraringof  Sir  Traj, 
Prtok-eared  cotapaniua  o(  hei  solitude. 
Red-spotted,  dirty  white,  and  bare  of  rib. 
Who  foJtuned  at  her  high  and  patteriag  heels, 
Prajer  io  his  eye,  prayer  in  his  slinking  gait. 
Prayer  in  his  pendulous  pulsating  t^l. 
Wids  on  its  creaking  jaws  revolved  the  door, 
The  Gopboard  yawned,  deep-throated,  thinly  set 
For  teeth,  with  bottles,  ancient  eanisterE, 
And  plates  of  various  pattern,  blue  or  white; 
Deep  ia  the  void  she  thrust  her  hooked  nose 
Peering  near-sighted  for  the  wiabed-for  bone, 
Whilea  her  short  robe  of  eamite,  tilted  high, 
The  thrifty  darnings  of  her  hose  revealed;— 
The  pointed  feature  travelled  o'er  the  delf 
Greasing  ite  tip,  but  bone  or  bread  found  none 
Wherefore  Sir  Tray  abode  BtiJl  diunerless, 
Liokiag  hia  paws  beneath  the  spinning-wheel, 
And  meditating  much  on  savoury  meats. 

Meanwhile  the  Dame  in  high-backed  ehair  repot 
Eevotving  many  memories,  for  she  gazed 
Down  from  her  lattice  on  the  self-same  path 
Whereby  Sir  Lancelot  'mid  the  reapers  rode 
When  Arthur  held  his  oourt  in  Camelot, 
And  she  was  oalled  the  Lady  of  Shalott 
And,  later,  where  Sir  Hubbard,  meekest  knight 
Of  all  the  Table  Round,  was  wont  to  pass, 
And  to  her  casement  glint  the  glance  of  love. 
(For  all  the  lale  of  how  she  floated  dead 
BatnoflQ  the  city  walla,  and  how  the  Court 
Gaied  on  her  corpse,  was  of  illusion  framed. 
And  shadows  raised  by  Merlin's  inagie  art. 
Ere  Vivien  shut  him  up  within  the  oak.) 
There  stood  the  wheel  whereat  she  spun  her  tbna^ 

Save  one  small  fragraent  on  the  mantelpiece, 
Reflecting  her  changed  features  night  and  morn. 


lyGoogle 


As  in  tempestuous  nigbtE  the  Northern  aeas 

Within  their  oavera  cliffs  reverbarato. 

This  touched  her :  "I  have  marked  of  jore,"  Bhe  sdd, 

"When  OB  mj  palfty  I  hava  paoed  along 

The  streets  of  Camelot,  while  many  a  knight 

Banged  at  my  rein  and  thronged  upon  nij  Btopa, 

Wending  in  pride  lowftrdB  the  tournanient, 

A  wight  who  many  kinds  of  bread  purveyed— 

Mu£Sn5,  and  orUmpets,  matutinal  rolls. 

And  buns  ithioh  buttered,  soothe  at  etenaoug; 

To  him  I'll  hie  me  ere  my  purpose  cool, 

Aad  swift  returning,  bear  a  loaf  with  me. 

And  (for  my  teeth  be  tender  grown,  and  like 

Celestial  risits,  few  and  fw  between) 

The  crust  shall  be  for  Tray,  the  otumb  for  me." 

This  Bpate  she;  from  their  peg  reached  straightway  down 

Her  eloak  of  eangulHe  hue,  and  pointed  bat 

From  the  flat  brim  upreared  like  pyramid 

On  sands  Bgyptiiui  where  the  Pharaohs  sleep. 

Her  ebon-handJed  staff  (sole  palfry  now) 

Grasped  firmly,  and  so  issued  siriftly  forth; 

Yet  ere  she  closed  the  latch  her  cat  Elaine, 

The  lily  kitten  reared  at  Astolat, 

Slipped  through  and  mewing  passed  to  greet  Sir  Tray. 

Returning  ere  the  shadows  eastward  fell. 
She  placed  a  porringer  apon  the  board. 
And  shred  the  crackling  crnstB  with  liberal  hand, 
Nor  rioted  how  Elaine  did  seem  to  wail, 
Rubbing  against  her  hose,  and  mourning  round 
Sir  Tray,  who  lay  all  prone  upon  the  hearth. 
Then  on  the  bread  she  poared  the  mellow  milk — 
"Sleep'stthou?"shesa:d,  and  touched  him  with  her  staff;, 
"Whal,  hoi  thy  dinner  waits  thee!"     Bnt  Sir  Tray 
Stirred  not  nor  breathed :  thereat,  alarmed,  she  seised, 
And  drew  the  hinder  leg ;  the  oaroaae  moved 

"Dead?"  said  the  Dame,  while  louder  wailed  Blaine;- 

"I  see,"  she  said,  "thy  fasts  were  all  too  long, 

Thy  commons  all  too  short,  whioh  shortened  thns 

Thy  days,  tho*  thou  mightst  still  hayc  oheered  mine.age 

Had  I  but  timelier  to  the  city  wonned. 

Thither  I  must  again,  and  that  right  sooa. 

For  now  'tis  meet  we  hip  thee  in  a  shroud, 


lyGoogle 


THE  nUMOBS   OF   VEESIFICATION. 

And  lay  thee  in  the  vault  bj  Astolat, 

Where  fwthful  Traj  shall  by  Sir  Hubbard  lis." 

Up  a  by-Iana  Ihc  Uadettakor  dwelt; 
There  day  bj  day  ho  plied  his  merry  liade. 
And  all  hie  undertakingB  undertook : 
Erst  knight  of  Arthur'e  Coart,  Sir  Waldgrave  highly 
A  graeaome  carte  who  hid  hia  jeats  in  gloom. 
And  Bohooled  his  lid  to  counterfeit  a  tear. 
With  cheerful  hammer  he  a  coffin  tapt, 
WhilB  holloti,  hollow,  hollow,  rang  tho  wood. 
And,  oa  ho  aaned  and  hammered,  thus  he  eang: — 


Wood,  hammer,  na 

IB,  ye  build 

Kiuls,  hammer,  wo 

d,  ye  build 

Paying  the  rent,  th 

e  taxes,  and 

^e  for  t 


there 


I  plant' a  human  aoom  in  the  ground, 

And  therefrom  straightway  springa  a  goodly  tree, 

Budding  for  me  in  bread  and  beeL'  and  beef. 

OLife,  dost  thou  bring  Death  or  Death  bring  thee? 

Which  of  the  twain  is  bringer,  whioh  the  brought? 

Since  men  must  die  that  other  men  may  live. 

O  Death,  for  me  thou  plump'at  thine  hollow  cheeks, 

Mak'st  of  thine  amfio  grin  a  pleaaaut  smile, 

And  prank'st  full  gaily  in  thy  winding  ahaet. 

This  ditty  sang  he  to  a  doleful  tune 

To  outer  eara  it  sounded  like  a  dirgo, 

Or  wind  that  wails  aflrosa  the  fields  of  death, 

'Ware  of  a  visitor,  he  oeaBcd  hie  strain, 

But  still  did  ply  hia  aaw  industrioas. 

With  withered  band  on  ear.  Dame  Hubbard  stood; 

"Vex  not  mine  eara,"  ahe  grated,  "with  thine  old 

And  creaking  saw!"     "I  deemed,"  he  aaid,  and  sighed, 

"Old  sawa  might  please  thee,  as  they  ehonld  the  wise." 

"Know,"  aaid  the  Dame,  "  Sir  Tray  that  with  me  dwelt 

Lies  on  my  lonely  hearthaiono  stark  and  atiff; 

Wagleaa  tho  tail  that  waved  to  welcome  me."— 

"Oft  have  I  noted,  when  the  jest  went  round. 
Sad  'twas  to  see  the  wag  forget  hia  tale- 
Sadder  to  see  the  tdil  forget  its  wag." 
"Wherefore,"  resumed  ahe,  "take  of  fitting  stuff. 
And  make  herewith  a  narrow  house  for  him." 
Qnoth  he,  "From  yonder  deal  I'll  piano  the  bark. 


lyGoogle 


THE    UUMORS   OF   VERSIFICATION. 

80 'twill  of  Trajbeemblematioil; 

For  thou,  'tie  plain,  mnet  lose  a  deal  of  bark, 

Sinee  he  nor  bark  aor  bite  shall  pracfioa  more." 

"And  take  thou,  too,"  she  said,  "a  ooffia-plate, 

Audi  be  his  birth  and  years  inscribed  thereon 

With  letUra  twwn  '8.  T.'  to  marlt  Sir  Tray, 

So  shall  the  tomb  ba  known  in  aft«r  time." 

"  This,  too,"  quoth  Waldgrave,  "  ahall  ba  deftly  doDe ; 

OR  batik  the  platfl  been  freighted  with  his  boaes. 

But  now  his  bones  must  lie  beneath  (he  plate." 

"JeBt'at  thou?"  Dame  Hubbai-d  eaid,  and  elulched  her  01 

For  ill  she  brooked  light  parlance  of  the  dead; 

But  when  she  saw  Sir  Waidgrave,  how  his  face 

Was  all  drawn  downward,  till  the  curving  mouth 

Seamed  a  boteeshoe,  while  o'er  the  furroired  check 

In  dry  ravine  down  mother  Ida's  aide. 

She  changed  bet  puipoae,  emote  not,  lowered  Ihe  staffs 

So  parted,  fating  homeward  with  her  gi'ief. 


Hoaring  her  bower,  i 


thought 


Did  sound  a  a 


?auhng  requiem. 
With  hesitating  hand  ah*  tajscd  the  latflh. 
And  on  the  threshold  with  reluctant  foot 
Lingered,  aa  loath  to  face  the  scen,o  of  woe, 
When  lo  !  the  body  lay  not  on  the  hearth. 
For  there  Elaine  her  flying  tail  puteued, — 
In  the  Dame's  ohaiv  Sir  Traj  alive  did  sit, 
A  world  of  merry  meaning  in  bis  ey^ 
And  all  his  face  agriu  from  ear  to  ear. 

Like  one  who  late  hath  loat  hia  dearest  friend, 


hat  fricn 


agam. 


And  marvels  soaroe  to  sea 
A  clasping  hand,  and  feels  him  warm  with  life, 
And  so  takes  up  hia  friondship's  broken  thread — 
Thus  stood  the  Dame,  thus  ran  she,  pattering  o'et 
The  sanded  tilea,  and  clasped  she  thus  Sir  Tray, 
Unheeding  of  the  grief  his  jest  had  wrought 
For  joy  he  was  not  numbered  with  the  dead. 
Anon  tlie  Dame,  her  primal  tranaports  o'er. 

And  bis  fine  wit,  and  then  it  shameful  seemed 
That  he  bareheaded  'neath  the  sky  should  go 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS   OF  VEESIFI CATION. 

While  emptj  ekullK  of  fools  weut  tbatobed  and  rirafid; 

"A  hat,"  she  oried,  "would  batter  fit  those  brows 

TJiaa  many  a  oourtier's  that  I've  wotted  of; 

And  thou  ahttlt  have  oue,  an'  roy  tender  toes 

On  which  tha  coma  do  ahoot,  and  theae  my  knees 

Whetethro'  theiimatio  twingaa  swiftly  dart. 

Win  baar  rae  to  the  dtj  yat  agMn, 

And  thoii  flbalt  wear  the  hat  as  Arthur  wore 

The  Dragon  of  the  great  Pendragonahip." 

Whereat  Sir  Tray  did  aaem  to  amile,  and  smota 

Upon  the  cJiwr-baok  with  approsing  tMl. 


THE   OLOGIES. 

We're  going  to  begin  with  an  ample  Apology; 
You'll  end,  we  are  aure,  by  a  hearty  Doxology, 
If,  aU  nndeterrod  by  our  stiange  Phraseology, 
Yoa  ohose  to  sit  down  to  a  dish  of  Tautology. 

We  thought  we  would  fain  eee  the  tale  of  our  foea; 
A  nioha  of  your  own  in  the  new  Marty rologies 
You'd  earn  if  you'd  only  go  halves  in  our  woes. 

We'v    oonnkd  some  forty!  but  how  many  more 

there  are, 
We're  even  now  wholly  unable  to  aay; 
We  fear  that  at  least  the  same  number  in  store 

there  are. 
You'll  say  we  hava  found  quits  enough  for  one  day. 

"Sonovf  for  our  Catalogue:  first  oomea  Anthology— 
A  bouquet  of  flowers,  a  budget  of  rhymes ; 
That's  pleasant— not  ao  the  next,  called  Anthropology, 
The  eoienoe  of  man  iu  all  agea  and  olimea. 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMOKS  OE   VERSIFICATION, 

)8t  naefiil  pnrauit,  Aroobaology ; 
^  the  spiders  who  weate  the  mots 
asked  to  go  in  for  Astrobg}', 


"Then  oomaa  a.  n 

They're  bipei 

But  when  ooe  i 

Aud  Zadkiel 


rage  most  rapidly  ebbs. 
"  Tho  Doxt  on  our  roster  ia  old  Archeology, 
A  science  that's  iutelj  been  mueh  iu  repute; 
One  CM't  say  as  much  for  Elaolro-biology, 

"But  none  can  afford  to  make  light  of  Chronology, 
Tho'  ladies  arc  spt  to  be  dark  upon  dutes; 
We  most  of  ns  make  rather  light  of  Conohology 
Except  when  the  ojater-ahen  gapes  un  our  platea, 


"TheDoTil's 

WouW  cen 

gome  esEnol 

But  tree-u: 


flay,  and  Demuoologj 
M  ha™  gone  to  the  De'il; 
Br,  still  swallow  Dendrology, 


"  The  parsons  are  great  upon  Eooleeiology, 
And  prate  about  proper  pyramidal  piles; 
Few  travelers  care  to  negleet  Entomology, 
Their  wakefslncss  often  Its  stud;  beguile:. 
"'Twould  take  you  a  life-time  to  learn  Etymology, 
And  dabblers  get  ioto  most  morvetloaa  scrapesj 
And  Huxley  would  tell  you  aa  much  of  Ethnology, 
Who  really  believes  we  are  oousins  of  apes  ? 
■■Scan  Buckland  it  was  who  grst  started  Geology, 

And  Frank  haa  of  late  taken  up  Ichthyology, 

The  salmon  already  have  voted  him  thanks. 
"Von  Humboldt  hud  fairly  exhausted  Kosmology, 

But  Satura  'a  a  quite  inexhaustible  mine ; 
Napoleon  has  fulSUed  a  new  Martyrology, 

Imbrued  with  the  purest  blue-blood  of  the  Rhine. 
"We  all  of  ua  thought  we  were  deep  in.Mythology, 

Till  Cox  and  Mai  Milller  both  deepened  its  well; 
Our  sons  may  learn  something  of  Meteorology — 

The  weather  our  propLels  all  fail  to  foretell. 


"Theatndy  of  life 

And  ne  shall  hi 

And  furnish  somi 


ip  with  Necrology 
IS  for  Osteology, 


lyClOOglC 


TOE  HUMORS   OF   V"ERSl^ICAT10^f. 

Or  Innch,  when  llie  plovera  are  pleased  to' lay  eggs; 
But  tlifln  one  would  bar  emhryonio  Oiitology, 

Preferring  fouls  full-growH  with  breast,  nings,  sad  legs! 

"  For  oh !  we  decidedly  like  Ornithologj 

And  chiefly  the  study  of  grouse  on  the  wing,- 
We'd  leave  it  to  doetore  to  study  Pathology ; 
The  study  of  pain  la  a  troublesome  thing. 

"Wa  all  of  us  need  a  amall  dose  of  Philology, 

A  careful  attention  to  striot  Phraaeoiogj 
Involi-aa  a  most  notable  saving  of  langa. 


"For  much  the  same  reaaon,  we'd  banish  Payohnlogy, — 
What  eavarit  can  gire  an  aooount  of  his  soul  f 
And  if  we  could  only  aboliah  Theology, 

The  parsons  aJoue  would  be  hard  to  console! 

"  If  ever  you  happened  to  study  Spianehnology, 

You'd  know  what  it  is  theologians  laok,— 
■  Inquisitors  never  eomplain  of  Tautology, 
So  long  as  rank  heretics  roar  on  the  rack. 

**  And  now  is  the  time  to  strike  up  your  Doaology, 
For  we  would  no  longer  detain  you,  mj  friend;— 
On  Snuday  we  all  have  a  turn  for  Zoology, 
So  here  is  our  Catalogue  come  to  an  end." 


HUMBTJO. 

The  London  Ch<rivor't  thinks  that  there  is  more  humbug 
talked  pr  nted  and  \  act  cod  u  ref  euce  to  mus  o  tha  to 
anythi  g  el  e  in  the  world  except  jkI  t  s  And  of  dU  tho 
m  aical  humbug  extant  t  occ  rs  to  Mi  P  nch  that  th 
vir  at  on  humbu  s  the  ^reatest  Th  a  pd  ty  ha  n  t  e 
the  sense  to  nTcnt  a  tu  e  for  h  m  elf  but  tkseleaad 
starting  the  efr  in  as  an  acroh  t  1    j  s  fr  m  <i    p   ng  boa  i 


lyGoogle 


THE   HUMOaS   OF   VEK6IF1CATI0N. 


247 


jiimpa  himself  into  a  musical  reputation  on  the  strength  of 
the  other  party's  ideas.  Mr.  Punch  wonders  what  would  he 
thought  of  a  Jioet  who  sSiould  try  to  make  himself  renown  hy 
this  kind  of  thing— taking  a  well-known  poem  of  a  prede- 
cessor and  doing  variations  on  it  after  this  fashion ; — 

BITGGIN'S'    VABIATIONS   ON   THE   BUSY  BEE. 

How  doth  the  Littlo  Bubj  Bm 

Improve  each  ahiniag  hour. 

And  gather  bonay  all  the  day 


From  every  opoE 

ue  flows 

,  flower. 

floT 

That  sparklea  in 

And  gives  its  sw 

ettiBBa  to 

the  shower, 

Exhaling  eoent  o 

gentle ; 

That  lasts  on  ke 

chief  ma 

vanh. 

And  i9  a  lady's  g 

acenil  d 

wer. 

Endeared  alike  M 

Round  which  the  Little  Busy  Bso 

Impi'oves  each  sli 

ining  ho 

And  gathers  honey 

111  the  d 

y 

ng  flowe 

,  flower 

lio 

I'rom  every  open 

ng  flowe 

Hob 


■s  hard  to 


it  well. 


With  the  sweet  food  she  makes. 

With  the  sweet  food  she  maies. 

With  the  sweet  food  she  makes,  makes,  makes, 

When  rising  jnst  p.B  morning  breaks. 

The  dawdcop  from  the  leaf  she  ehakos. 

And  oft  the  Bleeping  moth  she  wakes. 

And  diving  through  the  flower  she  takes. 

The  hone 


And  ii: 


cell  the  i 


Or  sports  across  the  silver  lakes. 

Beside  her  children,  for  whose  sakes 
How  skillfnlly  she  builds  her  cell. 

How  neat  she  spreads  her  was, 
And  labors  hard  to  store  it  well. 

With  the  sweet  food  she  mates. 


lyClOOglC 


^48  THE    HUMORS    OF   VEBSIFICATION. 

Ill  works  of  labor  or  of  skill, 

I  would  be  busy  too. 
For  Satan  flnds  soiue  mischief  still 
for  idle  handa  to  do. 
For  idle  hands  tu  do. 
For  idle  biuids  to  do,  do,  do. 
Tbings  whiob  thereaftor  tbay  will  rue, 
WbBD  Justice  fieroeij  doth  pursue. 
Or  eoBBoianoe  raises  erj  and  hue. 
And  evil-doers  look  quite  blue. 
When  Peelcra  ran  with  loud  halloo. 
And  magistrates  put  on  the  sorew. 
And  then  the  wretoh  eselaims,  Boo-hoo, 
In  works  of  labor  or  of  skill 

I  wish  I'd  busied  too, 
For  Satan's  found  much  miBehiaf  still. 
For  mj  two  handa  to  do. 

There !  Would  a  poet  get  muoh  reputation  for  these  yariations,  whii 
are  muoh  better  m  Iheir  waj  than  most  of  those  built  upon  tunes?  Wou 
the  poetical  oritios  eome  out,  as  the  muaieal  oritios  do,  with  "  Upon  Wati 
marble  foundation  Buggins  has  raised  a  sparkling  alabaster  palace;"  c 
"  The  old-fashioned  Watts  has  been  brought  into  new  honor  by  the  hi 
oeUa,^t  BuggiD3i"or  "We  love  the  old  tune,  but  we  hare  room  in  01 
hearts  for  the  feirj-like  fountains  of  bird-eong  which  Baggins  has  b 
start  from  it?"  Mr.  Punch  has  an  idea  that  Buggins  would  haye  no  su< 
luck;  tho  moral  to  ba  deduced  from  whioh  fact  is,  that  a  musical  prig 
luokier  than  a  poetical  prig. 


REITEEATIVE   VOCAL    MUSIC. 

A  well-knowa  reviewer,  in  an  article  on  Hymnologv, 
says : — 

Who  coulH  endure  to  hear  and  sing  hymns,  the  meaning 
and  force  of  which  he  really  fell^^et,  as  they  froqiiently  haye 
been,  to  melodies  ftum  the  Opera,  aiid  even  worse,  or  massa- 
cred hy  the  repetition  of  the  end  of  each  stanza,  no  matter 
whether  or  not  t*ie  grammar  and  sense  were  consistent  with  it. 
Take  such  memorable  oases  of  incongruity  as : — 

"My  poor  pol— 
My  pool  pol — 
My  poorpoUulad  heart." 


lyClOOglC 


THE   HUMORS   OF  VEKaiFICATION. 

To  which  he  might  have  added  from  Dr.  Watts;— 


"And  SI 


Sal— 


Or  this  to  the  same  common  metre  tuoe,  "Miles's  Lane": — 

"Where  mj  Sal— ray  Sal— mj  SalvatioQ  stands," 

Or  this  ■when  sung  to  "Job":— 
"Aud  love  thee  Bet — 
Aud  love  thee  better  than  befoie." 
Or— 

Stir  np  this  stupid  heart  to  praj." 
Or  this  crowning  absurdity: — 

"  And  mora  eggs— more  eggs— more  exalts  our  joys,"    ■ 

This  to  the  tnne  of  "Aaron"  T's: — 

"  With  thy  Benny— 
With  thy  benediction  seaL" 

This  has  recently  been  added  in  a  fashionable  metropolitan 


Andta 

And  further  havoc  is  made  with  language  ai 
"  Baforo  hie  throne  we  bow — wow—won — ot 
And— 

"I  love  to  steal 
I  loTfl  to  steal — awhile  away." 

And— 

0,  for  a  mansion  in  the  ekies." 


To  which  we  may  ai 


Two  trebles  sing,  "  And  learn  to  kiss  ";  two  trebles  and  alto, 
"And  learn  to  kiss";  two  trebles,  alto,  and  tenor,  "And  learn 
to  kiss";  the  bass,  solus,  "the  rod." 

This  is  sung  to  a  tune  called  "  Bojoe" : — 
"Thou  art  my  bull— 
Thou  art  my  bulwark  and  defence." 


lyGoogle 


250  THE   HUMORS   OF   VEESIFIOATION. 

THE   CURSE   OP   0 'KELLY. 

Carmac  O'Kellj,  the  celebrated  Irisli  harper,  went  to 
Iloneraile,  in  the  county  of  Cork,  where  his  wateh  was 
pilfered  frora  his  fob.  This  so  roused  his  ire  that  he  cele- 
brated the  people  ia  tho  following  unexampled  "  string  of 
curses : " — 


Alas !  how  dismal 

is  mj  tale. 

watoh  in 

Doneraile, 

My  Duhli 

watoh 

my  ohain  and  seal, 

Pilfered  a 

Doneraile. 

May  fire  and  brim 

il 

To  fall  in 

showers 

on  Doneraile 

Way  all  t 

a  kndin 

g  fiends  assa 

The  thiev 

of  Donoraile 

As  lightn 

de, 

0  bell  w 

i  Donerailo 

The  fate 

f  Pomp 

y  at  rharsai 

Be  stUl  the  fo 

od  for  Doneraile, 

And  furward 

as  tho  creeping  enail. 

Indnstry  be  a 

Doneraile. 

May  Heavon 

El  chosen  cures  entail. 

On  ragged,  to 

May  Ban  and 

moon  forever  fail 

To  beam  thei 

lights  on  Doneraile; 

May  every  pe 

tilential  gale 

Blast  that  cur 

cd  spot  called  Doneraile 

May  no  aweat 

ouakoo,  thrush  or  quail 

Be  ever  heard 

in  Doneraile; 

May  patriots, 

kings,  and  eommonvreal 

Despise  and  1 

May  every  po 

t,  gazette  and  mail. 

Sad  tidings  b 

-ing  of  Doneraile ; 

May  vengean 

0  fall  un  head  and  tail. 

From  north  t 

south  of  Doneraile 

May  profit  sni 

all,  and  tardy  sale, 

Still  damp  th 

trade  of  Doneraile: 

May  fame  res 

und  a  dismal  tale. 

Whene'er  she 

tights  on  Donordle; 

lyGoogle 


THE   HUMORS    OF  VERSIFICATION. 

May  Egypt's  plagues  at  onoe  prevful, 

To  thin  the  knuves  at  Doneroile; 

Maj  frost  and  snow,  ond  sleet  and  hail, 

Bannmb  eaoii  joint  in  Doneraile; 

Maj  wolvna  und  blooahounds  raoa  and  trai 

The  ouraed  orew  of  Doneraile; 

Maj  Oaoar  witt  hia  flery  flail 

To  atoms  thraali  all  Doneraile ; 

Maj  every  miacliief,  fresh  and  stale. 

May  all  from  Belfast  to  Kinanle, 

Sooff,  cursa  and  damn  joii,  Donsraile. 

May  noither  fiouc  nor  oatmeal. 


ch  joy  curtail, 
n  Doneraile; 


whalB, 


That  e'er  w 

That  wraps  a  rogue  in  Doneraile; 
May  all  the  thieves  who  rob  and  si 
The  gallows  meet  in  Doneraile ; 
May  all  the  sons  of  Gramawenl, 
Blush  at  thethieTBS  of  Doneraile; 
May  mischief  big  as  Norway 
O'ernhetm  the  knaves  of  Daneradle; 
May  curses  whole  and  by  retail. 
Pour  with  full  force  on  Doneraile; 
May  every  transport  wont  to  sid!, 
A  couviet  bring  from  Doneraile; 
May  every  ohurn  and  milking-p^ 
Fall  dry  to  staves  in  Doneraile; 
May  eold  and  hunger  Still  eongeal. 
The  stagnant  blood  of  Doner^e; 
May  every  hour  new  woes  reveal. 
That  heU  reserves  for  Doneraile; 
May  every  ohosen  ill  prevail 


The  Eapparees  of  Doner 

Andainlt  to  ashes  Donen 
May  Charon's  boat  trium 
Completely  manned  fton 


lyClOOglC 


HIBERNIANA. 


Maria  Edgeworth,  in  her  Emiy  on  Irish  Bulk,  remarks 
that  "tte  difficnlty  of  selecting  from  the  Tulgar  herd  a  hull 
that  shall  he  entitled  to  the  prize,  from  the  upited  merits  of 
pre-eminent  absurdity  and  indisputahle  originality,  is  greater 
tlian  hasty  judges  may  imagine." 

Very  true ;  but  if  the  prize  were  offered  for  a  hat'^  of  Irish 
diamonds,  we  think  the  followiog  copy  of  a  letter  written  dur- 
ing the  Rebellion,  by  S ,  an  Irish  member  of  Parliament, 

to  his  friend  in  London,  would  present  the  strongest  olaim : — 

"  My  dear  Sir : — Having  now  a  little  peace  and  quietness,  I 
ait  down  to  inform  you  of  the  dreadful  bustle  and  confusion  we 
are  in  from  these  blood-thirsty  rebels,  most  of  whom  are  (thank 
G-od !)  killed  and  dispersed.  We  are  in  a  pretty  mess ;  can  get 
nothing  to  eit,  noi  wine  to  dnnk  except  whiskey,  and  wh  n 
we  sit  down  to  dinner  we  are  obliged  to  keep  both  hands 
armed.  Whilst  I  wnte  this,  I  hold  %  piatjl  in  each  hani  ani 
a  sword  in  the  other  I  concluded  in  the  beginning  that  this 
would  he  the  end  of  it,  and  I  see  I  wis  right  for  it  is  n  t 
half  over  yet  At  pieseot  there  ire  such  goings  on,  that  every 
thing  is  at  a  stand  still.  I  should  have  answered  your  letter  a 
fortnight  ago,  but  I  did  not  receive  it  til!  this  morning.  Indeed, 
hardly  a  mail  arrives  safe  without  being  robbed.  No  longer 
ago  than  yesterday  the  coaoh  with  the  mails  from  Dublin  was 
robbed  near  this  town  :  the  bags  had  been  judiciously  left  bo- 
hind  for  fear  of  accident,  and  by  good  luck  there  was  nobody 
in  it  but  two  outside  passengers  who  had  nothing  for  thieves  to 
take.  Last  Thursday  notice  was  given  that  a  gang  of  rebels 
were  advancing  here  under  the  French  standard;  but  they  had 
no  colors,  nor  any  drums  except  bagpipes.  Immediately  every 
man  in  the  place,  including  women  and  children,  ran  out  to 
meet  them.  We  soon  found  our  force  much  too  little;  and  we 
were  far  too  near  to  think  of  retreating      Death  was  in  every 


lyGoogle 


HIBERNIANA.  253 

face;  but  to  it  we  went,  and  by  tte  time  half  our  little  party 
were  killed  we  began  to  Tds  all  alive  again.  Fortunately,  the 
rebels  had  no  guns,  except  pistols,  outlasses,  and  pikes ;  and  as 
we  had  plenty  of  gnns  and  amnmnition,  wo  put  them  all  to  the 
sword.  Not  a  soul  of  tSiem  escaped,  esaept  some  that  were 
drowned  in  an  adjacent  bog;  and  in  a  very  short  time  nothing 
was  to  be  heard  but  silence.  Their  uniforms  were  all  different 
colors,  but  mostly  green.  After  the  action,  we  went  to  rum- 
mage a  sort  of  camp  which  they  had  left  behind  them.  All 
we  found  was  a  few  pikes  without  heads,  a  parcel  of  empty 
Bottles  full  of  water,  and  a  bundlp  of  French  commissions 
filled  up  with  Irish  names.  Troops  are  now  stationed  all  around 
tho  country,  which  exactly  squares  with  my  ideas. .  I  have  only 
time  to  add  that  I  am  in  great  haste. 

"Yours  truly, . 

"P.  S. — If  you  do  not  receive  this,  of  course  it  must  have 
miscarried  :  therefore  I  beg  you  will  write  and  lot  me  know-" 


■  Miss  Edgeworth  says,  further,  that  "  many  bulls,  reputed  to 
be  bred  and  bom  in  Ireland,  are  of  foreign  extraction ;  and 
many  more,  supposed  to  be  unrivalled  in  their  kind,  iBay  be 
icatohed  in  all  their  capital  points."  To  prove  this,  she  cites 
numerous  examples  of  well-known  bulla,  with  their  foreign  pro- 
totypes, not  only  English  and  Continental,  but  even  Oriental  and 
ancient.  Among  the  parallels  of  familiar  bulla  to  be  found 
nearer  our  American  home  since  the  akillful  defender  of  Erin's 
naivete  wrote  her  Essay,  one  of  the  best  is  an  economical 
method  of  erecting  a  new  jail : — 

The  following  resolutions  were  passed  by  the  Board  of  Coun 
oilmen  in  Canton,  Mississippi  : — 

1.  Resolved,  by  this  Council,  that  we  build  a  new  Jail. 

2.  Resolved,  that  the  new  Jail  be  built  out  of  the  materials 
of  the  old  Jail. 

3.  Resolved,  that  the  old  Jail  be  used  until  the  new  Jail  is 
finished. 


lyGoogle 


2,3 -i  HIBEKNIANA. 

It  was  a  Frenchman  who,  in  makiug  a  classified  catalogue 
of  books,  placed  Miss  Edgewortli'a  Essay  in  the  list  of  works 
on  Natwal  History;  and  it  was  a  Scotchman  who,  having 
purchased  a  copy  of  it,  pronounced  her  "  a  puir  ailly  body,  to 
wrife  a  book  on  bulls,  and  no  ane  word  o'  horned  cattle  in  it  a', 
f  1  je  the  b  t  beast  e  [the  v  ^nette]  at  tl  e  bcj,  nn  ng  Esam 
pie  f  om  the  om  non  wilks  of  1  fe  and  fr  n  per  ol  al  1  ter 
t  r  n  ay  read  ly  1  e  ult  pi  ed  to  show  thit  these  phrised  ^ 
c  1  peculiar  ties  tre  not  to  be  esclus  ely  att  butel  to  Irel  1 
]  lit  it  we  adopt  Oolend^e  s  detnit  on  wi  ch  s  that  a  bull 
on  sts  ID  a  mental  juttapo  t  on  of  neongruous  ideas  w  h 
the  senial  on  b  it  w  tl  o  t  the  sense  t  con  o  t  on  we  shall 
fi  d  frequent  instaneea  of  ts  o  urren  e  amo  g  i  laiard  au 
tho  s  Palve  tl  e  f  liow  ng  blonde  a  for  examples  — 
Adam,  tlio  goodliest  man  of  men  »ace  bora 
Hie  aunt— Uie  fairest  of  her  dcaighim-e,  Etb. 

MiUon's  Paradise  LosU 
The  loTBliesl  pair 
That  evsr  swice  in  lo™*3  embraces  met.— /6.  B.  iV. 
Swift,   being  an   Irishman,  of  course   abounds   in   blunders, 
some  of  them  of  the  most  ludicrous  character;  but  we  should 
hardly  expect  to  find  in  the  elegant  Addison,  the  model  of 
classical  English,  such  a  singular  inaccuracy  as  the  following ; — 

So  tto  pare  limpid  stream,  when  foul  icilh  slaim 
Of  rushing  torranta  and  dcseending  riuna.— Colo. 

He  mast  have  seen  in  a  blaze  of  blinding  light  (this  is  "ip. 
sis  Hibernis  Hibercior")  the  canity-  and  evil,  the  folly  and 
madness,  of  the  worldly  or  selfish,  and  the  grandeur  and  truth 
of  the  disinterested  and  Christian  life. — GilJiUan's  Bards  of 
the  Bible. 

The  real  and  peculiar  magoificenco  of  St.  Petersburgh  con- 
sists in  thus  sailing  apparently  v,pon  the  hosom  of  the  ocean^ 
into  a  dty  of  palaces. — Sedgwick'i  Letters  from,  the  Baltic. 

The  astonished  Yahoo,  smoking,  as  well  as  he  could,  a  cigar, 
idith  xoMch  he  had  filled  all  his  pockets. —  Warrer's  Ten  Thou- 
sand a  Year. 


lyGoogle 


IIIBEILNIANA, 

from  the 


255 
works  of  Br.  Jotn- 
Latin;  for  that 


The  following  specimens 
so  a  : — 

Every  monumental  inscription  should  bi 
tieiug  a  dead  language,  it  will  alwaja  live. 

Nor  yet  peroBived  tba  vitiil  spirit  flod. 

But  atlU  fought  on,  nor  k'nem  that  he  wm  dead. 

Shakspeare  has  not  only  ihown  human  nature  as  it  is,  but  aa 
it  would  be  fouad  in  situations  to  which,  it  cannot  be  exposed. 

Turn  from  the  glittering  bribe  your  seornfiil  ejo. 
Nor  sell  for  gold  ^ithat  gold  cnn  never  iui). 

These  observations  wore  made  ly  favor  of  a  contrary  wim.d. 
The  nest  two  are  from  Pope  : — 


Shakspeare  says, — 

I  will  Btriva  nitb  tilings  impossi 


A  Sorrid  iilenee  first  in 


I :  Dovglam. 

i  by  Parliament  in  June,  1 


In  the  Irish  Bank-bill  p 
is  a  clause  providing  that  the  profits  shall  be  equally  divided 
and  the  residue  ijo  to  the  Governor. 

Sir  Richard  Steele,  being  aaked  why  his  countrymen  were 
so  addicted  to  making  bulls,  said  ho  believed  there  must  he 
something  in  the  air  of  Ireland,  adding,  "I  dare  say  i/ aw 
Englishman  were  horn  there  he  would  do  the  same." 

Mr.  Cunningham,  to  whom  we  are  indebted  for  the  interest- 
ing notes  to  Johnson's  "Lives  of  the  Poets,"  pronounces  his 
author  the  most  disHnguished  of  his  cotemporaries. 


lyClOOglC 


25  G 

.  Sir  Walter  Scott  perpetrates  a  curious  blunder  in  one  of  his 
novels,  in  making  certain  of  his  chartwitera  behold  a  sunset  over 
the  waters  of  a  seaport  on  the  eastern  coast  of  Scotland. 

The  following  occurs  in  Dr.,Ijathani's  English  Language. 
Speaking  of  tbe  genitive  or  possessive  case,  he  says, — 

"  la  the  pimai  number,  however,  it  is  rare ;,  so  rare,  indeed, 
that  whenever  the  plural  ends  ia  s  (as  it  always  does)  there  is 

Bjron  says, — 

■       I  stood  ID  Venioo  on  the  BrldgB  of  Sighs, 
A  palaoe  and  a  prison  tin  taoh  hand. 
(He  meant  a  paIa«o  on  one  hand,  and  a  prison  on  Uic  oHibt.) 

Dr.  JohnsoD,  in  his  Dictionary,  defines  a  gairrei  as  "a  room 
on  the  bigbest  floor  in  the  house,"  and  a  cock-loft  as  "  the 
room  over  the  garret." 

For  the  sake  of  comparison,  we  reour  to  the  favorite  pasture 
of  the  genuine  thorough-bred  animal ; — 

An  Irisb.  member  of  Parliament,  speaking  of  a  certain  min- 
ister's well-known  love  of  money,  observed,  "  Let  not  the  hon- 
orable mombor  ospreas  a  contempt  for  money, — for  if  there  ia 
anyone  office  that  glitters  in  the, eyes  of  the  honorable  member, 
it  is  that  of  purse-bearer :  a  pension  to  him  is  a  compendium 
of  all  tbe  cardinal  virtues.  All  his  statesmanship  is  compre- 
hended in  the  art  of  taxing;  and  for  good,  better,  and  best,  in 
tbe  scale  of  human  nature,  he  invariably  reads  pence,  shillings, 
and  pounds.  I  verily  belieye,"  oontiniied  the  orator,  rising  to 
the  height  of  his  coneeptJon,  "  that  if  the  honorable  gentleman 
were  va  undertaker,  it  would  be  the  delight  of  his  heart  to  see 
all  mankind  aeiaed  with  a  common  mortality,  that  he  might 
hi^e  the  btneflt  of  the  £;eneral  burial,  an]  piovide  scarfs  and 
hit  bands  for  thp  surviiors 

The  manager  of  a  provincial  theitie,  finding  upon  one  occa- 
sion but  thiee  peiTOns  in  iftendance,  mide  the  following  ad- 
dress — "  Lddies  and  gentlemen — as  there  is  nobody  here,  I'll 
dismiss  you  all  The  performances  of  this  niijht  will  not  be 
performed,  but  thfi/iDiU  be  repealed  to  morrow  evening." 


lyClOOglC 


HIBERNIANA.    .  257 

A  Hibernian  gentleman,  when  told  by  his  nephew  that  he 
had  juat  entered  college  with  a  view  to  the  church,  saidj  "I 
hope  that  I  may  live  to  hear  you  preach  my  fuaeral  sermon." 

Ac  Irishman,  quarrelling  with  aa  Eugliahnian,  told  him  if  he 
didn't  hold  his  tongue,  ho  would  break  his  impenetrable  head, 
and  let  tlie  brains  out  of  his  empty  skull. 

"  My  dear,  come  in  and  go  to  bed,"  said  the  wife  of  a  jolly 
son  of  Erin,  who  had  just  returned  from  the  fair  in  a  de- 
cidedly how-come-you-so  state:  "you  must  be  d read fal  tired, 
sure,  witii  your  long  walk  of  six  miles."  "  Arrah  !  get  away 
with  your  nonsense,"  said  Pat:  "it  wasn't  the  ^en^/i/i  of  tbe  way, 
at  all,  that  fatigued  me  :   'twas  the  breadth  of  it." 

A  poor  Iriahmaa  offered  an  old  saucepan  for  sale.  His  chil- 
dren gathered  around  him  and  inquired  why  he  parted  with  it. 
"  Ah,  me  honeys,"  he  answered,  "  I  would  not  be  afther  part- 
ing with  it  but  for  a  little  money  to  buy  something  to  put  in  it." 
A  young  Irishman  who  had  married  when  about  nineteen 
years  of  age,  complaining  of  the  dif&eulties  to  which  his  early 
marriage  subjected  him,  said  he  would  never  marry  so  young, 
again  if  he  liyed  to  be  as  ould  as  Methuselah. 

In  an  Irish  provincial  paper  is  the  following  notice:— 
Whereas  Patrick  O'Connor  lately  left  his  lodgings,  this  ia  to. 
give  notice  that  if  he  does  not  return  immediately  and  pay  for 
the  same,  he  will  be  advertised. 

"  Has  your  sister  got  a  son  or  a  daughter  ?"  asked  an  Irish- 
man of  a  friend.  "Upon  my  life,"  was  the  reply,.  "I  don'b 
know  yet  whether  I'm  an  uncle  or  aunt." 

"  I  was  going,"  said  an  Irishman,  "over  Westminster  Bl'idge 
the  other  day,  and  I  met  Pat  Hewina.  '  Hewins,'  says  I,  '  bow 
are  you?'  'Pretty  well,'  says  he,  'thank  you,  Donnelly.' 
'  Donnelly !'  says  I :  '  that's  not  my  name.'  '  Faith,  no  more  is 
mine  Hewins,'  says  he.  So  we  looked  at  each  other  again,  and 
sure  it  turned  out  t«  be  iiayther  of  us;  andwhere'a  the  bull 
of  that,  now  ?" 


lyClOOglC 


258  HIBERNIANA. 

"  India,  my  boy,"  said  an  Irish  officer  to  a  friend  on  bis 
arrival  at  Calcutta,  "is  the  finest  climate  under  the  sun;  but  a 
3ot  of  joung  fellows  come  out  bere  and  tbej  drink  and  tbey  eat, 
and  tbcy  drink  and  tbey  die:  and  then  tbey  writ3  home  to 
their  parents  a  pack  of  lios,  and  say  it's  the  climate  tbat  has 
killed  them." 

In  the  perusal  of  a  very  solid  book  on  the  progress  of  the 
ecclesiastical  differences  of  Ireland,  written  by  a  native  of  that 
country,  after  a  good  deal  of  tedious  aad  vexatious  matter,  the 
reader's  complacency  is  restored  by  an  artless  statement  how  an 
eminent  person  "abandoned  the  errors  of  tbe  oburch  of  Rome, 
and  adopted  those  of  tbe  churob  of  England." 

Here  is  an  American  Hibernicism,  wHcb  is  entitled  to  full 
recognition: — Among  tbe  things  that  Wells  &  Fargo's  Express 
is  not  responsible  for  as  carriers  is  one  couched  ia  tie  following 
language  in  their  regulations:  "Not  for  any  loss  or  damage  by 
fire,  the  acts  of  God,  or  of  Indians,  m-  any  other  piiUtc  enemien 
of  the  government." 

Grcorge  Selwyn  once  declared  in  company  that  a  lady  could 
not  write  a  letter  without  adding  a  postscript.  A  lady  present 
replied,  "  Tbe  next  letter  that  you  receive  from  me,  Mr.  Selwjn, 
will  prove  tbat  you  are  wrong."  Accordingly  bo  received  one 
from  her  the  nest  day,  in  which,  after  her  signature  was  the 
following : — 

"P.  S.     Who  is  right,  now,  you  or  I?" 

The  two  subjoined  pai'liamentary  utterances  are  worthy  to 
have  emanated  from  Sir  Boyle  Kocbe: — 

•■  Mr.  Spaaker,  I  hoHlj  answer  ia  the  affirmative— No." 

"  Mr.  Speaker,  if  I  have  anj  pr^udioe  agMnst  the  honorabie  member. 

When  my  lord  he  came  wooing  to  Miss  Ann  Thrnpo, 

He  waa  then  a  "Childe"  from  school; 
He  paid  his  addresaaa  in  a  trope, 

Antl  called  her  hia  sweet  bul-bul: 

That  a  covpU  of  b«Us  was  a  aigMng<ile. 


lyClOOglC 


ELUNDEaS. 


ISIuttTrns. 


SLIPS  OP   THE  1 


Lord  Brougham  was  fond  of  relating  an  instance  which  was 
no  jolto  to  the  victim  of  it.  A  bishop,  at  one  of  his  country 
viBitations,  found  occasion  to  complain  of  the  deplorable  state  of 
a  certain  chnreh,  the  roof  of  which  was  evidently  anything  but 
water-tight;  aft«r  rating  those  concerned  for  their  n^lect,  his 
lordship  finished  by  declaring  emphatically  that  he  would  not 
■visit  the  damp  old  church  again  until  it  was  put  in  decent 
order.  His  horror  may  be  imagined  when  he  discovered  him- 
self reported  in  the  local  journal  aa  having  declared:  "I  shall 
not  visit  this  damned  old  church  again."  The  bishop  lost  no 
time  in  calling  the  editor's  attention  to  the  mistake;  whereupon 
that  worthy  set  himself  right  with  his  readers  by  stating  that 
he  willingly  gave  publicity  to  his  lordship's  explanation,  but  he 
had  every  confidence  in  the  -accuracy  of  his  repoi-t«r.  The 
editor  of  an  evening  paper  could  hardly  have  had  similar  confi- 
dence in  his  subordinate  when  the  latter  caused  his  journal  to 
record  that  a  prisoner  had  been  sentenced  to  "four  months  im- 
prisonment in  the  House  of  Commons!"  In  this  case,  we 
fancy  the  reporter  must  have  been  in  the  same  exhilarated  con- 
dition as  his  American  brother,  who  ended  his  account  of  a  city 
banquet  with'  the  frank  admission ;  "  It  is  not  distinctly  remem- 
ber^ by  anybody  present  who  made  the  last  speech !" 

In  a  poem  on  the  "Milton  Gallery,"  by  Amos  Cottle,  the 
poet,  describing  the  pictures  of  Foseli,  says; — 

"  Thu  lubbor  flend  ontstretched  the  chimney  Dear, 

Or  sad  UlysBea  on  the  larboard  Staer." 

Ulysses  steered  to  the  larboard  to  shun  Charybdis,  but  the 
compositor  makes  him  get  upon  the  back  of  the  bullock;  the  left 
one  in  the  drove!  After  all,  however,  he  only  interprets  the 
text  literally.    "Sf«er,"  as  a  substantive,  has  no  other  meaning 


lyClOOglC 


260  BLUNDEES. 

than  bulloek.  The  suhstantive  of  the  verb  "  to  steer 
"He  that  hath  the  steerage  of  my  course,"  saja  Shakepcarc, 
The  compositor  evidently  imderatood  that  Ulysses  rode  an  ox ; 
he  would  hardly  else  have  spelt  Steer  with  a  capital  8. 

The  following  paragraphs,  intended  to  have  been  printed 
separately,  in  a  Paris  evening  paper,  were  hy  some  lilunder  bo 
arranged  that  they  read  conseoutively: — 

Doctor  X.  has  been  appointed  head  physician  to  tJio  Hospital 
de  la  Charitc.  Orders  have  been  issued  by  the  authorities  for 
the  immediate  extension  of  the  Cemetery  of  Mont  Parnasse. 
The  works  are  being  esecuted  with  the  utmost  dispateh. 

The  old  story  of  Dr.  Mudge  furnishes  one  of  the  most 
curious  eases  of  typographical  aceident  on  record.  The  Doctor 
had  been  presented  with  a  gold-headed  cane,  and  the  same  week 
a  patent  pig-killing  and  sausage-making  machine  had  been,  tried 
at  a  factory  in  the  place  of  which  he  was-  pastor.  The  writer 
of  a  report  of  the  presentation,  and  a  description  of  the 
machine,  for  the  local  paper,  is  Sius  made  to  "mix  things  mis- 


"The  inconsiderate  Castonian  who  made  up  the  forms  of  the 
paper,  got  the  two  locals  mixed  up  in  a  frightful  manner;  and 
when  we  went  to  press,  something  like  this  was  the  appalling 
result:  Several  of  the  Eev.  Dr.  Mudge's  friends  called  upon 
him  yesterday,  and  after  a  brief  conversation,  the  unsuspicious 
pig  was  seized  by  the  hind  legs,  and  slid  along  a  beam  until  he 
reacjied  the  hot  water  tank.  His  friends  explained  the  object 
of  their  visit,  and  presented  him  with  a  very  handsome  gold- 
headed  butcher,  who  grabbed  him  by  the  tail,  swung  him 
round,  slit  his  throat  from  ear  to  ear,  and  in  less  than  a  minute 
the  carcass  was  in  the  water.  Thereupon  he  came  forward,  and 
swd  that  there  were  times  when  the  feehngs  overpowered  one ; 
and  for  that  reason  he  would  not  attempt  to  do  more  than 
thank  those  around  him  for  the  manner  in  which  such  a  huge 
animal  was  cub  into  fragments  was  simply  astonishing.     The 


lyClOOglC 


261 


Doctor  concluded  his  remarks  when  the  i 

acd  in  less  time  than  it  takes  to  writ*  it,  t 

fragments  and  worked  up  info  delicious  sausages.     The  oi 

will  long  be  remembered  by  the  Doctor's  friends  as  one  of  the 

most  delightful  of  their  lives.     The  best  pieces  ca.a  he  procured 

fortenpence  a  pound;  and  we  are  sure  that  those  who  have 

sat  so  long  under  his  ministry  will  rejoice  that  he  has  been 

treated  so  handsomely." 


SLIPS   OF  THE  TELEaHAPH. 

The  Prior  of  the  Dominican  Monastery  of  Voreppe,  in  France, 
recently  received  the  following  telegram  r—"  Father  Ligier  is 
dead  (esl  mori);  we  shall  arrive  by  train  to-morrow,  at  three, — 
Labooeb."  The  ecclesiastic,  being  convinced  that  the  deceased, 
who  was  highly  esteemed  in  the  locality,  had  selected  it  for  his 
last  resting-place,  made  every  preparation.  A  grave  was  dug,  a 
hearse  provided,  and  with  the  monks,  a  sorrowing  crowd  waited 
at  the  station  for  the  train.  It  arrived,  and,  to  the  astonish- 
ment of  every  one,  the  supposed  defiinct  alighted,  well  and 
hearty.  The  matter  was  soon  explained.  The  reverend  father, 
returning  from  a  visit  to  Rome,  where  he  had  been  accompanied 
by  the  priest  Laboree,  stopped  to  visit  some  monks  at  Saiut- 
Jean-de-Maurienne,  and  requested  his  companion  to  tolegraph 
the  return  to  his  monastery.  The  message  sent  was:  "Father 
Ligier  and  I  (e(  rmi)  will  arrive,"  &c.  The  clerks  inadvertent- 
ly changed  the  et  moi  into  est  mort,  with  what  result  has 
already  been  told. 


A  firm  in  Cincinnati  telegraphed  to  a  correspondent  in  Cleve- 
land, as  follows ; — "Cranberries  rising.  Send  immediately  one 
hundred  barrels  per  Simmons."  Mr.  Simmons  was  the  agent 
of  the  Cincinnati  house.  The  telegraph  ran  the  last  two 
words  together,  tmd  ahordy  after,  the  firm  were  astonished  to 
find    delivered    at  their   store   one  hundred    barrels   of  por- 


lyClOOglC 


262  blundees. 

serial"  inconsistency. 

In  Mrs.  Oliphant'a  interesting  story  of  "Ombra,"  there  is  a 
curious  contradiction  between  the  end  of  Chapter  XLV.  and 
the  beginning  of  Chapter  XLVI.  A  domestic  picture  is  given, 
an  interior,  witli  the  oharactora  thus  disposed : — 

"One  evening,  when  Kate  was  at  home,  mid,  as  usual,  ah- 
etracted  over  a  book  in  a  comer;  when  the  Berties  were  in  fiill 
possession,  one  bending  over  Omhra  at  the  piano,  one  taking 
earnestly  to  her  mother,  Francesca  suddenly  threw  the  door 
open,  with  a  vehemence  quite  unusual  to  her,  and  without  a 
word  of  warning — without  even  the  announcement  of  his  name 
to  put  them  on  theii'  guard — Mr.  Courtenaj  walked  into  the 
room." 

Thus  ends  Chapter  XLV.,  and  thus  opens  Chapter  XLVI. ; — 

"The  scene  which  Mr.  Courtenay  saw  when  he  walked  in 
suddenly  to  Mrs.  Anderson's  drawing-room,  was  one  so  different 
in  every  way  from  what  he  had  expected  that  he  was  for  the 
first  moment  as  much  taken  aback  as  any  of  the  company. 
*  *  *  The  drawing-room,  which  looked  out  on  the  Lung' 
Anio,  was  not  small,  but  it  was  rather  low — not  much  more 
than  an  entresol.  There  was  a  blight  wood-fire  on  the  hearth, 
and  near  it,  with  a  couple  of  candies  on  a  small  table  by  her 
side,  sat  Kate,  distinctly  isolated  from  the  rest,  and  working 
diligently,  scarcely  raising  her  eyes  from  her  needle-work.  The 
centre-table  was  drawn  a  little  aside,  for  Ombra  had  found  it  too 
warm  in  front  of  the  flre ;  and  about  this  the  other  four  were 
grouped — Mrs,  Anderson,  working  too,  was  talking  to  one  of 
the  young  men;  the  other  was  holding  silk,  which  Ombra  was 
winding;  a  thorough  English  domestic  party- — such  a  family 
group  as 'should  have  gladdened  virtuous  eyes  to  see.  Mr. 
Courtenay  looked  at  it  with  indescribable  surprise." 

MISTAKES   OF  ■MISAPPREHENSION. 

Soon  afler  Louis  XIV.  appointed  Bossuet,  Bishop  of  Meaux, 
he  inquired  how  the  citizens  liked  their  new  Bishop,  to  which 


lyClOOglC 


r  je^ra  since,  an 

;e  of  the  Quarter 

n  the  bench, 


BLUNDERS,  263 

they  answered,  doubtfully :  "Pretty  well."  "But,"  asked  his 
Majesty,  "what  fault  do  you  find  with  him?"  "To  say  the 
truth,"  they  replied,  "we  should  have  preferred  a  Bishop  who 
had  finished  his  education;  for,  whenever  we  wait  upon  him, 
we  arc  told  that  he  is  at  his  studies." 

There  lived  ia  the  west  of  England,  a 
enthusiastic  geologist,  who  was  presidii^  j 
ScBsiona.  A  farmer,  who  had  seen  him  pre 
overtook  him  shortly  afterwards,  while  seated  by  the  roadside 
on  a  heap  of  stones,  which  he  was  busily  breaking  in  search  of 
fossils.  The  &mner  reined  up  his  horse,  gazed  at  him  for  a 
minute,  shook  his  head  in  commiseration  of  the  mutability  of 
human  things,  then  esclaimed,  in  mingled  tones  of  pity  and 
surprise ;  "  What,  your  Honor !  be  you  come  to  this  a'  ready  ?" 

Cottle,  in  his  Life  of  Gol^riilge,  relates  an  essay  at  grooming 
on  the  part  of  that  poet  and  Wordsworth.  The  servants  being 
absent,  the  poets  had  attempted  to  stable  their  horse,  and  were 
almost  sueoessftil.  With  the  collar,  however,  a  difficulty  ai-oso. 
After  Wordsworth  had  _ relinquished  as  impracticable  the  effort 
to  get  it  over  the  animal's  head,  Coleridge  tried  his  hand,  but 
showed  no  more  grooming  skill  than  his  predecessor;  for,  after 
twisting  the  poor  horse's  neck  almost  to  strangulation,  and  to 
the  great  danger  of  his  eyes,  he  gave  up  the  useless  task,  pro- 
nouncing that  the  horse's  head  must  have  grown  (gout  or 
dropsy)  dnce  the  collar  was  put  on,  for  he  said  it  was  downright 
impossibility  for  such  a  huge  os  froniis  to  pass  through  so 
narrow  a  collar !  Just  at  this  moment  a  servant  girl  oame  up, 
and  turning  the  collar  upside  down,  slipped  it  off  without 
trouble,  to  tiie  great  humility  and  wonderment  of  the  poets,  who 
were  each  satisfied  afresh  that  there  were  heights  of  knowledge 
to  which  they  had  not  attained. 


TRANSLATORS. 

A  most  entertaining  volume  might  be  made  from  the  amusing 
and  often   absurd  blunders   perpetrated   by  translators.     For 


lyClOOglC 


264  BLUNDERS. 

instance,  MLss  Cooper  tells  us  that  the  person  who  first  rendered 
her  father's  novel,  "The  Spy,"  into  the-  French  tongue,  among 
other  mistatts,  made  the  following: — Readers  of  the  Revolu- 
tbuary  romance  will  remember  that  the  residence  of  the  Whar- 
ton fiunily  was  called  "The  Locusts."  The  trwislator  referred 
to  his  dictionary,  and  found  the  rendering  of  the  word  to  he 
Les  SautereUes,  "The  Grasshoppers."  But  when  he  found 
one  of  the  dragoons  represented  as  tying  his  horae  to  one  of 
the  locusts  on  the  lawn,  it  would  appear  aa  if  he  might  have 
been  at  fiiult  Nothing  daunted,  however,  but  faking  it  for 
granted  that  American  grasshoppers  must  be  of  gigantic  dimen- 
sions, he  gravely  informs  his  readers  that  the  cavalryman 
secured  his  charger  by  fastening  the  bridle  (o  ono  of  the  grass- 
hoppers before  the  door,  apparently  standing  there  for  that 
purpose. 

Much  laughter  has  deservedly  been  rMsed  at  French  iitl^ra- 
teurs  who  professed  to  be  "doctua  utrivsgue  linguse."  Gibber's 
play  of  "Love's  Last  Shift"  was  translated  by  a  Frenchman 
who  spoke  "Inglees"  as  "Le  Demih-e  Ohenme  de  V Amour;'" 
Congreve's  "Mourning  Bride,"  by  another,  as  "L'Epouse  du 
Matin;"  and  a  French  scholar  recently  included  among  his 
catalogue  of  works  on  natural  history  the  essay  on  "Irish  Bulls," 
by  the  Edgeworths.  Jules  Janin,  the  great  critic,  in  his  trans- 
lation of  "Macbeth,"  renders  "Out,  out,  brief  candle!"  as 
"Sortez,  chandeUe."  And  another,  who  traduced  Shakapearc, 
commits  an  equally  amusing  blunder  in  rendering  Northumber- 
land's famous  speech  in  "Henry  IV."     In  the  passage 

"  Even  eueh  a  man,  bo  faint,  60  epiritlese, 
So  dull,  ea  dead  \a  look,  ao  tuoe-begoof." 

the  words  italiciacd  are  rendered,  "ffl^nM  liiMfeiw.'  va-t'en!" — 
"so  grief,  be  ofT  with  youl"  Voltaire  did  no  better  with  his 
translations  of  seyeral  of  Shatspeare's  plays ;  in  one  of  which 
the  "myriad-minded"  makes  a  character  renounce  all  claim  to  a 
doubtful  inheritance,  with  an  avowed  resolution  to  carve  for 


lyGoogle 


BLUNDERS.  2t)5 

himself  a  fortune  with  his  sword.  Voltaire  put  it  m  French, 
which,  retranslated,  reads,  "  What  care  I  for  lands  ?  With  my 
sword  I  will  make  a  fortune  cutting  meat." 

The  late  centennial  celebration  of  Shakspeare's  birthday  in 
England  called  forth  numerous  publications  relating  to  the 
works  and  times  of  the  immortal  dramatist.  Among  them  was 
a  new  translation  of  "Hamlet,"  by  the  Chevalier  de  Chatelain, 
who  also  translated  Halleck's  "Alnwick  Castle,"  "Bums,"  and 
"Marco  BoaMria."  Our  readers  are,  of  eotirse,  famiiiar  with 
the  following  lines ; — 

"How  weary,  stale,  flat,  and  unprofltablo 
Seem  lo  me  all  the  usesof  this  world  1 
Fie  ou't!     Oh,  De!  'tia  an  unwoedsd  garden 
That  e'''>"8  *"  saedi  things  raok,  and  gross  in  nature. 

The  ehcTalier,  less  successful  with  the  English  than  with  the 
modern  American  poet,  thus  renders  them  into  French : — 

"  Fi  done  !  fi  done  I  Cesjou. 


Qmdon' 


itnpli  dgfollea  herhe^y 
!,  et  eeria  Hen  de  plus 
I  eholera-morbwi." 


Some  of  the  funniest  mistranslations  on  record  have  been 
bequeathed  by  Victor  Hugo.  Most  readers  will  remember  his 
rendeimg  of  a  peajacket  as  paletot  a  lapurie  depots,  and  of 
the  Fnth  of  Forth  as  le  mnquihme  de  le  qvatrilme. 

The  Fiench  translator  of  one  of  Sir  W^ter  Scott's  novels, 
knowing  nothing  of  that  femiliar  name  for  toasted  cheese, 
"  a  Welsh  labbit,"  rendered  it  literally  by  "  un-  lapin  Av.  pays 
do  GaUta"  or  a  labbit  of  Wales,  and  then  informed  his  readcra 
in  a  foot-note  that  the  lapins  ov  rabbits  of  Wales  have  a  very 
superior  flavor,  and  sffe  very  tender,  which  cause  them  to  he  in 
great  request  in  England  and  Scotland.  A  writer  in  the 
Neapolitan  paper,  H  Giomale  deJla  due  Skilie,  was  moie 
ingenuous.  He  was  translating  from  an  English  paper  the 
account  of  a  man  who  killed  his  wife  by  striking  her  wifh  a 


lyGoogle 


266  MISQTTOl'ATIONS. 

poker;  and  at  tlie  end  of  hia  story.the  honest  journalist,  with 
a  modesty  unusual  in  his  craft,  said,  "Nbn  sappiamo  jper  certo 
se  qtimto  pokero  Inglese  sia  una  alrumento  dorrmtico  o  bend 
ckirMrffico"~-"We  are  not  quite  eertain  whether  this  English 
poker  [poLtiu']  hi.  a  domcstio  or  surgical  insfrument." 

In  the  course  of  the  iaiaom  Ticbbome  tual,  the  claimant, 
when  isked  the  meaning  of  lam  Deo  semptr,  said  it  meant 
"  the  laws  of  tJod  forevei  or  permanently  An  answer  not 
less  ludiri  us  was  gnen  by  a  Fieuch  Sir  Roger,  who,  on 
being  aaL-d  to  translate  numero  Dem,  impme  gaudef,  nnhesita- 
ttngly  replied,  "  Le  num^io  deux  &e  rejouit  d'etre  impab." 

Some    of  tlie   tranbldtiona  of   the  Italian    operas   in   the 
librettos,  which  are  sold  to  the  audience,  are  ludicrous  enough. 
Take,  for  instance,  the  lines  in  Ruhmto  il  diavolo,-— 
Egliera  diceesi 
Del  ti'isto  Imperio. 
Which  some  smart  interpreter  rendered — 


jttisnuotations. 

In  Mr  Collins'  account  of  Hoinor's  Iliad,  in  Blackwood's 
Ancient  Glassies  for  English  Keaders,  occurs  the  following: — 

. . . .  "  The  spirit  horsemen  who  rfJlied  the  Boman  line  in  the 
great  fight  with  the  Latins  at  Lake  Eegillns,  the  shining  stars 
who  Hghted  the  sailors  on  the  stormy  Adriatic,  and  gave  their 
names  to  the  ship  In  which  St.  Paul  was  east  away." 

If  the  reader  will  take  the  trouble  to  refer  to  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostks,  xsviii,  H,  he  will  find,  that  the  ship  of  Alexandria, 
"whose  sign  was  Castor  and  Pollux,"  was  not  the  vessel  in 
which  St.  Paul  was  shipwrecked  near  Malta,  but  the  ship  in 


lyClOOglC 


M!^^L  JTiTIJNb 


267 


wliieh  he  safely  voy^^ii  trom  the  loland  of  the  barlm  us 
people"  to  Piiteoli  for  Eome 

The 'misquotations  of  Sii  Walter  Scott  have  frequently  t 
tracted  attention.  Une  of  the  most  uupaidonable  cocui  la 
Tlie.  Heart  of  Mid  Luthutn.  ch  ipter  slvu  — 

"The  leiffit  of  these  considerations  ilwijs  inclined  Butler  to 
measures  of  eonoilution  m  so  far  as  he  could  acoede  to  them 
without  eompromising  principle ;  and  thus  our  simple  and  un- 
pretending heroine  had  the  merit  of  those  peacemakers,  to  whom 
it  is  pronounced  as  a  benediction,  that  they  shall  inherit  the 
earth." 

On  turning  to  the  gospel  of  Matthew,  v.  9,  we  find  that  the 
benediction  pronounced  upon  the  peacemakers  was  that  "they 
shall  be  caJJed  the  children  of  God."  It  is  the  meek:  who  arc  to 
"  inherit  tie  earth,"  (ver.  5). 

Another  of  Scott's  blundeia  occurs  in  IvanJuie.  The  date 
of  this  story  "refers  to  a  period  towards  the  end  of  the  reign 
of  Richard  I."  (chap,  i,)  Kiohard  died  in  1199.  Neverthe- 
less, Sir  Walter  makes  the  disguised  Wamha  style  himself  "a 
poor  brother  of  the  Order  of  St.  Francis,"  although  the  Order 
wa'*  not  founded  until  1210,  and,  of  course,  the  saintship  of 
the  toundei  had  i  still  later  date. 

Again  in  Waverle^  (chap,  sii.)  he  puts  into  the  mouth  of 
Baion  Biidwjrdine  the  words  "nor  would  I  utterly  accede  to 
the  objurgation  of  the  younger  Plirmis  in  the  fourteenth  boot 
ot  his  Sisliina  Natwalis."  The  great  Koman  naturalist  whose 
thirty-seven  books  on  Natural  History  were  written  eighteen 
centuries  ago,  was  the  Elder  Pliny. 

Alison,  in  his  History  of  Stirope,  speaks  of  the  Grand  Duke 
Constantine  of  Russia,  the  Viceroy  of  Poland,  as  the  son  of 
the  emperor  Paul  I.  and  the  celebrated  empress  Catherine. 
This  Catherine  was  the  mother  of  Paul,  and  wife  of  Peter  III., 
Paul's  father.  Constantino's  mother,  i.e.  Paul's  wife,  was  a 
princess  of  Wiirtemberg. 


lyGoogle 


263  MISQUOTATIONS, 

Another  of  Archibald's  singular  errors  is  his  translation  of 
droit  du  timbre  (stamp  duty)  into  "  timher  duties."  This  is  about 
as  sensible  as  his  quoting  with  approhafJon  from  Da  Toc!|ueville 
the  false  and  foolish  assertion  that  the  American  people  are 
"  r^ardless  of  historical  records  or  monuments,"  and  that  future 
historians  will  be  obliged  "to  write  the  history  of  the  present 
generation  from  the  archives  of  other  lands."  Such  iguoi-anoe 
of  American  soholarship  and  research  and  of  the  vigorous 
vitality  of  AmericMi  Historical  Societies,  is  unpardonable. 

Disraeli  thus  refers  to  a  curious  blunder  in  IS^agler's  Kiinst- 
ler-L^Acon,  concerning  the  artist  Cruikshank:— 

Some  years  ago  the  relative  merits  of  Gfeorge  Cruikshank 
and  his  brother  were  contrasted  in  an  English  Eeview,  and 
George  was  spoken  of  as  "the  leal  Simon  Pure" — the  first 
who  had  aiustrated  "  fecene'<  of  Life  m  London."  Unaware  of 
the  real  significance  of  a  quotation  which  has  become  prover- 
bial among  us,  the  German  editor  begins  !iis  memoir  of  Cruik- 
shank by  gravely  informing  us  that  he  is  an  English  artist 
"whose  real  name  is  Simon  Puie' '  Turning  to  the  artists  un 
der  letter  P.  we  accordingly  read,  "Pure  (Simon),  the  real 
name  of  the  celebrated  earieaturist,  George  Cruikshank." 

This  will  remind  some  of  our  readers  of  the  index  which  re- 
fers to  Mr  Justice  Best.  A  searcher  after  something  or  other, 
rutining  his  eye  down  the  index  through  letter  B,  arrived  at  the 
r  feience  "Best — Mr.  Justice — his  great  mind."  Desiring  to 
be  bitter  'acquainted  with  the  particulare  of  this  as.sertion,  he 
turned  to  the  page  referred  to,  and  there  found,  to  his  entire 
ratiifaction,  "Mr.  Justice  Best  said  he  had  a  great  mind  to 
commit  thi,  witness  for  prevarication." 

In  the  fourth  canto  of  Don  Juan,  stanza  CX.,  Byron  says: 

Oh,  darkly,  deeply,  baautifully  blue, 

Byron  wa^  mistaken  in  thinking  his  quotation  referred  to  the 
ikj      The  line  is  in  Southey's  Madoo,  canto  V.,  and  d 
fi-'h      A  note  intimates  that  dolphins  are  meant. 


lyGoogle 


FABRICATIONS. 


Blue,  darkly,  deeply,  beautifully  bla% 
In  all  ita  rich  variety  (if  shades. 
Suffused  with  glowing  gold." 


jfaftrications. 


THE   DBSOKIPTION  OP  THE   SAVIOURS   PERSON. 

Chalmers  charges  upon  Huarfce  (a  natiyo  of  French  Navarre) 
the  pubhcation  (as  genuine  and  authentic)  of  the  Letter  of 
Lentuliia  (the  Proconsul  of  Jeruaalem)  to  the  Eoman  Senate, 
describing  the  person  and  manners  of  our  Lord,  and  for  which, 
of  course,  he  deservedly  censures  him.  A  copy  of  the  letter  will 
be  found  in  the  chapter  of  this  volume  headed  I.  H.  S. 

A   CLEVER  HOAX   ON   SIR   WALTER   SCOTT. 

The  following  parage  occura  in  one  of  Sir  Walter  Scott'a 
letters  to  Southej,  written  in  September,  1810 : — 

A  witty  ro.:;  le  the  othei  diy  who  sent  me  a  letter  subsnibcd 
"Detector,  pirvi'd  me  guilty  of  sfeibuj,  &  pwH^ne  frtm  one 
of  Vida's  J  atin  poems  which  I  had  npyer  seen  r  heard  of; 
yet  there  waa  so  strcng  a  general  Te'icmllim.e  is  fiu  ly  to 
authorize  '  Detector  s    suspicion 

Lockhart  remarks  thereupon : — 

The  lines  of  Vida  which  "Detector"  had  enclosed  to  Seott, 
as  the  obvious  ordinal  of, the  address  to  "Woman,"  in  Mar- 
Tnion,  closing  with — 

"When  pain  and  anguish  wring  tlie  brow, 


end  as  follows:  and  it  must  be  owned  that  if  Vida  had  really 
written  them,  a  more  extraordinary  example  of  casual  coinci- 
dence could  never  have  been  pointed  out. 


lyGoogle 


2i0  FABRICATIONS. 

"Cum  dolor  atque  auperoilin  gravis  immioet  angor, 
Fungcria  angalieo  sola  miniatsrio." 

"Detector's"  reference  is  Vida  ad  Eranen,  El.  ii.  v,  21;  but 
it  is  almost  needless  to  add  there  are  no  sucli  lines,  and  no  piece 
bearing  such  a  title  in  Vida's  works. 

It  was  afterwards  ascertained  that  the  wa^ish  author  of  this 
hoax  was  a  Cambridge  scholar  named  Drury. 

THE  MOON  HOAX. 

The  authorship  of  the  "Moon  Hoax,"  an  elaborate  descrip- 
tion (which  was  first  printed  in  the  New  York  Stin)  of  men, 
animals,  &c.,  purporting  to  have  been  discovered  in  the  moon 
by  Sir  John  Hersehel,  is  now  disputed.  Until  recently  it  waa 
coneeded  to  R.  A.  Locke,  now  dead;  but  in  the  5«ji/e(  o/i'am- 
doxeni  by  Professor  De  Morgan,  the  authorship  is  confidentJy 
ascribed  to  M.  Nicollet,  a  French  savant,  once  well  known  in 
this  country,  and  employed  by  tte  government  in  the  scientific 
exploration  of  the  WesL  He  died  in  the  government  service. 
Professor  De  Morgan  writes  aa  follows: — "There  is  no  doubt 
that  it  (the  'Moon  Hoax')  was  produced  in  the  United  States 
by  M.  Nicollet,  an  astronomer  of  Paris,  and  a  fugitive  of  some 
kind.  About  him  I  have  heard  two  stories.  First,  that  he 
fled  to  America  with  funds  not  his  own,  and  that  this  book 
w^  a  mere  device  to  raise  the  wind.  Secondly,  that  he  was  a 
protegi  of  Laplace,  and  of  the  Polignac  party,  and  also  an  out- 
spoken man.  The  moon  story  was  written  and  sent  to  Franco, 
with  the  intention  of  entrapping  M.  Arago — Nicollet's  especial 
foe — in  the  belief  of  it."  It  seems  not  to  have  occurred 
to  the  sage  and  critical  professor  that  a  man  who  could 
steal  funds,  would  have  little  scruple  about  stealing  a  lite- 
rai-y  production.  It  is,  hence,  more  than  probable  that. Nicol- 
let translated  the  article  immediately  after  its  appearance  in 
the  New  York  Sun,  and  afterwards  sent  it  to  France  as  his 


lyClOOglC 


A  stoiy  is  told  in  literary  circles  ia  New  York  of  an  entliu- 
aiastie  Carlyle  Club  of  ktdiea  and  gentlemen  of  Cambridge  and 
Boston,  wKo  meet  periodically  to  read  their  chosen  prophet  and 
worship  at  his  shrine.  One  of  them,  not  imbued  with  suffi- 
cient reverence  to  teach  him  better,  feloniously  contrived  to 
have  the  reader  on  a  certain  evening  insert  sometiiing  of  hia 
own  composition  into  the  reading,  as  though  it  came  from  the 
printed  page  and  Cariyle's  hand.  The  interpolation  was  as 
follows :—"  Word-spluttering  organisms,  in  whatever  place — 
not  with  PIntarchean  comparison,  apologies,  nay  rather,  without 
any  such  apologies — but  born  into  the  world  to  say  the  thought 
that  ia  in  them — antiphcffeal,  too,  in  the  main — butchers, 
bakers,  and  candlestick-makers;  men,  women,  pedants.  Verily, 
with  you,  too,  it's  now  or  never."  This  paragraph  produced 
great  applause  among  the  devotees  of  Carlyle.  The  leader 
of  the  Club  especially,  a  learned  and  metaphysical  pundit, 
who  is  the  great  American  apo.stle  of  Carlyle,  said  nothing 
Carlyle  had  ever  written  was  more  representative  and  happy. 
The  actual  author  of  it  attempted  to  ask  some  questions 
about  it,  and  elicit  explanations.  These  were  not  wanting, 
and,  where  they  felled,  the  stupidity  of  the  qnestioner  was  the 
substitute  presumption,  delicately  hinted.  It  reminds  us  of 
Dr.  Franklin's  incident  in  his  life  of  Abraham,  which  he  used 
to  read  off  with  great  gravity,  apparently  from  an  open  Bible, 
though  actually  from  his  own  memory.  This  parable  is  proba- 
bly the  most  perfect  imitation  of  Scripture  style  extant. 


A  gentleman  having  requested  iilrs,  Hemana  t<i  furnish  him 
with  some  authorities  from  the  old  English  writers  for  the  use  of 
the  word  "barb,"  as  applied  to  a  steed,  she  very  shortly  supplied 
Lim  with  the  following  imitations,  which  she  was  in  the  habit 
of  calling  her  "forgeries."  The  mystification  succeeded  com- 
pletely, and  was  not  discovered  for  some  time  afterwards: — ■ 


lyGoogle 


PABEICATIONS. 

The  warrior  donn'd  his  well-worn  garb 

He  monnted  on  his  jet-blaak  bai-b 
And  put  liie  lauco  in  rest. 

Pebov,  lidiquei. 
Eftaoona  the  wight  withouten  more  delay 
Spurr'd  his  brown  barb,  and  rode  full  swiftly  on  his  way. 
Spe 
Hati !  was  it  not  the  trnmpet'a  voioa  I  heard  ? 
The  aoul  of  battle  la  awake  within  me ! 
The  fate  of  ages  and  of  empires  hangs 


On  tbls  drca 

dbou 

.    Whv 

am 

no 

in  am 

a? 

Bring  my  g 

od  lanoe,  onp. 

■i3->l 

my 

iteed . 

Base,  idle  g 

ooms 

aroye 

against  mo? 

Haate  with 

,y6^ 

b.  or  by 

,he 

oiy 

lainta. 

Te  shall  nol 

livfli 

a  saddle  him 

Massihgbb 

No  aooner  had  the  pearl-atedding  flngerB  of  the  young  Aurora  trem- 
ulously unlocked  the  oriental  portala  of  the  golden  horizon,  than  the 
gracefillflowerofohivalry,  and  the  bright  oynosuro  of  ladies  eyea— ha  of 
the  dazallng  breaat-plate  and  swanlike  plnme—  sprang  impatiently  from 
the  oouoh  of  slumber,  and  eagerly  mounted  the  noble  barb  presented  to 
him  by  the  Emperor  of  Aspromuntania. 

Sir  Philip  Siusbt,  Arcadia. 
Bee'st  thOH  yon  chiof  whose  presenoe  seems  to  role 
The  storm  of  battle  ?    Lo  !  where'er  ho  moves 
Death  follows.     Carnage  sits  upon  his  ereat— 
Pate  on  hia  sword  is  throned—  and  Ma  white  barb, 
As  a  proud  eourser  of  Apollo's  chariot, 
Seems  breathing  fire. 


I  watched  him  till  my  tearfu'  sight 
Srew  amaist  dim  wi'  straining. 

Border  Mill, 


ell  as  any  gallant 
Shaksi'eare. 


Fair  alar  of  beauty's  heaven  I  to  oalJ  thee  mine. 
All  other  joy's  I  joyously  would  yield; ' 

My  knightly  crest,  my  boundmg  barb  resign 
For  the  poor  shepherd's  orook  and, daisied  field  I 


lyGoogle 


FABRICATIONS . 


For  thy  dear  love  mj  weary  soul  hath  grown 
Haadleaa  of  youthful  spocta  :  I  seek  no  mora 
Or  joyous  danoa,  or  muaio's  thrilling  tone, 
Or  joys  that  once  ooold  oharm  in  minstrel  lore, 
Or  knightly  tilt  where  etael-olad  ohnitipions  meal, 
BoFDS  an  impetuous  baria  to  bleed  at  beauty's  feat '. 


SHAt 


Asa 


In  sable  arms,  like  chaos  dnll  and  sacl, 
But  mounted  on  a  barb  as  white 
As  the  fresh  new-bom  light,— 

So  the  blaok  night  t^a  soon 
Came  riding  od  the  bright  and  silver  mo 

Whose  radiant  heavenly  ark 
Made  all  the  clouds  beyond  her  influence 


e  all  widow 


f  her  gl 


SHERIDAN  8  GREEK. 
In  Anecdotes  of  TnvpVideiice,  we  find  this  ourioua  Etory: — 
Lord  Belgravc  taving  denched  a  speech  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons with  a  long  Greek  quotation,  Sheridan,  in  reply,  acimitted' 
the  ftiree  of  the  quotation  so  far  as  it  went;  "but"  said  he,  "if 
tho  noble  Lord  had  proceeded  a  little  ferther,  and  completed, 
the  passage,  he  would  have  seen  that  it  applied  the  other  way!" 
Sheridan  then  spouted  something  ore  rotunda,  which  had  all  the^ 
ais,  ois,  kons,  and  kois  that  give  the  world  assurance  of  a  Greek 
quotation  upon  whith  Lord  Belgrave  very  promptly  and  Kdad 
somely  complunented  the  honorible  member  on  hi-j  readloesi  ot 
recollection,  and  frankly  admitted  that  the  continuation  of  the 
passage  had  the  tendency  agonbed  to  it  by  Mr  Shendan,  and 
that  he  hid  overlooked  it  at  tho  moment  when  he  gave  hif, 
quotation  On  the  breaking  up  of  the  House  Fix  who  piqued 
himself  on  having  some  Greek,  went  up  to  Sheridan,  and  said, 
"Sheridan,  how  came  you  to  be  so  ready  with  that  passage?  It 
certainly  is  as  you  state,  but  I  was  not  aware  of  it  before  you 


lyGoogle 


274  PABEIOATIONS. 

quoted  it."     It  is  unaeceasary  to   observe  that  there  was  no 
Ureek  at  all  in  Sheridan's  impromptu. 

BALLAD  LITEKATUEB. 

John  Hill  Burton,  in  hia  Book  Hunter,  after  speaking  of  the 
aueoesa  with  which  Surtus  imposed  upon  Sir  Walter  Soott  the 
spurious  hallad  of  the  Death  of  Feathersionhangh,  which  has  a 
place  in  tho  Border  Minstrelsy,  says: — 

Altogether,  such  affairs  create  an  unpleasant  uncertainty  ahout 
the  paternity  of  that  delightful  department  of  literature— our 
ballad  poetry.  Where  next  are  we  to  bo  disenchanted  ?  Of  the 
way  in  which  ballads  have  oome  into  existence,  there  is  one  sad 
example  within  my  own  knowledge.  Some  mad  young  wags, 
wishing  to  test  the  critical  powers  of  an  experieaced  collector, 
sect  him  a  new-made  ballad,  which  they  had  been  enabled  to 
secure  only  in  a  fragmentary  form.  To  tte  surprise  of  its  fiibri- 
cator,  it  was  duly  prmted ;  but  what  naturally  raised  his  surprise 
to  astonishment,  and  revealed  to  him  a  secret,  was,  that  it  was 
no  longer  a  fragment,  but  a  complete  ballad, — the  collector,  in 
the  course  of  his  industrious  inquiries  among  the  peasantry, 
having  been  so  fortunate  aa  to  recover  the  missing  fragments ! 
It  was  a  case  where  neither  could  say  anything  to  the  other, 
though  Cato  might  wonder,  qiwd  noii  rideret  haru^ex, 
hartmpicem  cum  vidigset.  This  ballad  has  been  printed  in 
more  than  one  collection,  ajid  admired  as  an  instance  of  tho 
inimitable  sunplicity  of  the  genuine  old  versions! 

Psalmanaaar  exceeded  in  powers  of  deception  any  of  the 
great  impostors  of  learning.  His  island  of  Formosa  was  an  illu- 
sion eminently  hold,  and  maintained  with  as  much  felicity  as 
erudition ;  and  great  must  have  been  that  erudition  which  could 
form  a  pretended  language  and  ita  grammar,  and  fertile  the 
genius  which  could  invent  the  history  of  an  unknown  people. 
The  deception  waa  only  satisfactorily  ascertained  by  his  own  peni- 
tential confession;  he  had  defied  and  baffled  the  moat  learned. 


lyGoogle 


FABRICATIOKS, 


rR-4NKLIN  8   PARABLE. 

Dr.  Franklin  frequently  read  for  t 
pany,  apparently  from  an  open  Bible,  but  acfcuallyfrom  memory, 
tlie  following  chapter  in  favor  of  religious  toleration,  pretendedly 
quoted  from  the  Book  of  Genesis.  This  stoiy  of  Abraham  and 
the  idolatrous  traveler  was  given  by  Franklin  to  Lord  Kaimes 
as  a  "Jewish  Parable  on  Persecution,"  and  was  published  by 
Kaimes  in  his  Sketches  of  the  History  of  Man.  It  is  traced, 
not  to  a  Hebrew  author,  but  to  a  Persian  apolc^e.  Bishop 
Ileber,  in  referring  to  the  charge  of  plagiarism  raised  against 
Franklin,  says  that  while  it  cannot  be  proved  that  he  gave  it  to 
Lord  Kaiiues  as  his  own  composition,  it  is  "  unfortunate  for  him 
that  his  correspondent  evidently  appears  to  have  regarded  it  as 
his  composition ;  that  it  had  been  published  as  such  in  all  tho 
editions  of  Franklin's  collected  works ;  and  that,  with  all  Frank- 
lin's abilities  and  amiable  qualities,  there  was  a  degree  of  quack- 
ery in  his  character  which,  in  this  instance  as  well  as  that  of  his 
professional  epitaph  on  himself,  has  made  the  imputation  of  such 
a  theft  more  readily  received  against  him,  than  it  would  have 
been  against  most  other  men  of  equal  eminence." 

1.  And  it  onme  to  pass  after  those  things,  that  Abtahani  sat  in  the  door 
of  hia  lent,  aliont  the  going  down  of  Ihe  sun. 

2.  Andbeholdaman,  bowed  with  age,  eame  from  tho  waj  of  the  wUder- 


arth? 


mghG 


r  of  Ilea' 


7.  And  tho  man  answered  and  said,  I  do  not  worship  the  Hod  thou  apcak- 
est  of,  neither  do  I  call  upon  his  name ;  for  I  huve  made  to  myself  a  God, 
nhioh  abideth  always  in  mine  honae,  and  prorideth  me  with  all  things. 

8.  And  Abraham's  zeal  waf  kindled  against  the  man,  and  he  arose  and 
fell  upOD  him,  and  drove  him  forth  into  tho  wilderness. 


lyClOOglC 


276  PABHICATIONS. 

9.  And  at  mianight  God  called  uato  Abraham,  saying,  Abraham,  wliere 
is  the  alranger? 

10.  And  Abraham  anawcrcd  and  said.  Lord,  he  would  not  worsliip  Thee, 
ceither  would,  he  call  upon  Thy  name ;  therefore  have  I  driven  hiin  oat 
from  before  mj  face  into  the  nilderneflB. 

11.  And  God  said.  Have  I  boras  with  him  these  hundred  and  ninety  and 
eight  jeara,  and  nourished  him  and  clothed  him,  notwithstanding  his 
rehoUion  against  Me ;  and  couldst  not  thou,  that  art  thyself  a  sinner,  bear 
with  him  one  night? 

12.  And  Abraham  said,  Let  not  the  onger  of  my  Lord  was  hot  against 
His  servant;    Lo,  I  haved  sinned;  forgive  me,  I  pray  Thee. 

13.  And  he  arose,  and  went  forth  into  the  wilderness,  and  sought 
diligently  for  the  man,  and  fouHd  him : 

14.  And  returned  with  him  to  his  tent;  and  when  be  had  entreated 
him  kindlj,  he  sent  him  away  on  the  morrow  with  gifts. 

15.  And  God  spake  again  untfl  Abraham,  saying,  For  this  thy  sin  shall 
thy  seed  be  afflicted  four  hundred  joars  in  a  strange  land: 

la.  But  for  thy  repentance  will  I  deliver  them;  and  they  shall  come 
forth  with  power,  and  with  gladness  of  heart,  and  with  much  substance. 

THE   SHAKSPBARB  FORGERIES. 

In  1795-96  William  Henry  Ireland  perpetrated  the  remark- 
able Shakspeare  Forgeries  which  gave  his  name  such  iiifenious 
notoriety.  The  plays  of  "  Vortigem  "  and  "  Heniy  the  Second  " 
were  printed  in  1799.  Several  litterateurs  of  note  were  deceived 
hy  them,  and  Sheridan  produced  the  former  at  Dmry  Lane 
theatre,  with  John  Kemble  to  take  the  leading  part.  The  totiJ 
feilure  of  the  play,  conjoined  with  the  attacks  of  Malone  and 
others,  eventually , led  to  a  conviction  and  forced  confession  of 
Ireland's  dishonesty.  For  an  authentic  account  of  the  Shak- 
speare Manuscripts  see  The  Confessions  of  W.  If.  Ireland; 
Chalmers'  Apology  for  the  Believers  of  the  Shakspeare  Papers  ; 
Malone's  Inquiry  into  the  Aiithenticity,  &c. ;  Wilson's  Shak^e- 
riana;  Gentleman's Maffamie,Vj96-97 ;Eclectio  Magazine,  svi, 
476.  One  of  the  original  manuscripts  of  Ireland,  that  of  Hen- 
ry the  Second,  has  been  preserved.  The  rascal  seems  to  have 
felt  but  little  peniteace  for  his  fraud. 


lyClOOglC 


INTERRUPTED  SENTENCES. 


luferrupten  ^entnucs. 

A  JuDOB,  reprimaading  a  criminal,  called  him  a  scoundrel. 
The  prisoner  replied:  "Sir,  T  am  not  as  big  a  scoundrel  as  your 
Honor"™ here  the  culprit  stopped,  but  finally  added — "takes 
me  to  be."  "I'ut  jour  words  closer  together,"  said  the  Judge. 

A  lady  in  a  dry  goods  store,  while  inspecting  some  cloths, 
remarked  that  thoy  were  "part  cotton,"  "Madam,"  said  the 
shopman,  "  these  goods  are  as  free  from  cotton  as  your  breast 
is" — (the  lady  frowned)  he  added — -"fi-ee  from  guile." 

A  latly  was  reading  aloud  in  a  circle  of  friends  a  lottor  just 
received.  Sho  read,  "  We  are  in  great  trouble.  Poor  Mary  has 
been  confined" — and  there  she  stopped  for  that  was  the  last  word 
on  the  sheet,  and  the  nest  sheet  had  dropped  and  fluttered  away, 
and  poor  Mary,  unmarried,  was  left  really  in  a  delicate  situation 
until  the  missing  sheet  was  found,  and  the  next  continued — "to 
hex  room  for  three  days,  with  what,  we  fear,  is  suppressed  searlet 

To  all  letters  soKcitiug  his  "subscription"  to  any  object 
Lord  Erskine  had  a  regular  form  of  reply,  siz,: — "Sir,  1  feel 
much  honored  by  your  application  to  me,  and  beg  to  subscribe" 
-7-here  the  reader  had  to  turn  over  the  leaf — "  myself  your  very 
obedient  servant." 

Much  more  satisfactory  to  the  recipient  was  Lord  Eldon's 
note  to  his  friend,  Th.  Fisher,  of  the  Charter  House: — "Dear 
Fisher — I  cannot  to  day  give  you  the  preferment  for  which  you 
ask.  Tour  sincere  friend,  Eldon.  (^Fum  over) — I  gave  it  to 
you  yesterday." 

At  the  Vir^nia  Springs  .a  Western  girl  name  Helen  was 
familiarly  known  among  her  admirers  as  Little  Hel,  At  a  party 
given  in  her  native  city,  a  gentlemnn,  somewhat  the  worse  for  his 
supper,  approached  a  very  dignified  young  lady  and  asked : 


lyGoogle 


278  INTBREOPTET)   SENTENCES. 

"Where'a  mj  little  sweetheart?  You  know,— Little  Hel?" 
"Sir?"  exclaimed  the  lady,  "you  cerlainly  forgot  yoitrself." 
"Oil,"  said  he  quickly,  "you  interrupted  me;  if  jou  had  let 
me  go  on  I  would  have  said  Little  Helon."  "  I  beg  your 
pardon,"  answered  the  lady,  "when  jou  said  Little  Hel,  I 
thought  you  had  reached  your  final  destination." 

The  value  of  an  explanation  is  finely  illustrated  in  tto  old 
story  of  a  king  who  sent  to  another  king,  saying,  "Send  mo  a 
blue  pig  with  a  black  tail,  or  else- — ■."  The  other,  in  high 
dudgeon  at  the  presumed  insult,  replied ;  "  I  have  not  got  one, 

and  if  I  had ."     On  this  weighty  cause  they  went  to  war 

for  many  years.  After  a  satiety  of  glories  and  miseries,  they 
finally  bethought  them  that,  as  their  armies  and  resources  were 
exhausted,  and  their  kingdoms  mutually  laid  waste,  it  might  be 
well  enough  to  consult  about  the  preliminaries  of  peace ;  but 
before  this  could  be  concluded,  a  diplomatic  explanation  was 
first  needed  of  the  insulting  language  which  formed  the  ground 
of  the  quarrel.  "What  could  you  mean,"  said  the  second  king 
to  the  first,  "by  saying,  'Send  me  a  blue  pig  with  a  black  tail, 
or  else  ■ — ?'"  "  Wliy,"  said  the  other,  "I  meant  a  blue  pig 
with  a  black  tdl,  or  else  some  other  color.  But,"  retorted  he, 
"what  did  you  mean  by  saying,  'I  have  not  got  one,  and  if  I 

I'ad ?'"     "Why,  of  course,  if  I  had,  I  should  have  sent 

it."  An  explanation  which  was  entirely  satisfactory,  and  peace 
was  concluded  accordingly. 

It  is  related  of  Dr.  Mansel,  that  when  an  undergraduate  of 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  he  chanced  to  call  at  the  rooms  of 
a  brother  Cantab,  who  was  absent,  but  who  had  left  on  his 
table  the  opening  of  a  poem,  which  was  in  the  following  lofty 
strain : — 

"The  aun's  perpendicular  rays 

niumine  the  depths  of  the  sea," 

Here  the  flight  of  the  poet,  by  some  accident,  stopped  short, 
hut  Mansel,  who  never  lost  an  occasion  for  fun,  completed  the 
stanza  in  the  following  facetious  stylo : — 


lyGoogle 


INTERRUPTED 


Cried,  '  Goodneaa,  hon  hot  we  shall  be.'" 

That  not  very  brilliant  joke,  "  to  lie — under  a  mistake,"  is 
s  indulged  in  by  flie  best  writers.     Witness  the  follow- 
Byron  saya: — 


If,  al 


Totheii 


■all,  a 


'e  slioold  be  i 


.wn  goo 


nmg  to 


Led  bj  Bome  tortuosity  of  m 

Not  to  believe  mj  yerae  and  their  o' 
And  ory  that  they  the  moral  oonnot  fl' 

I  loll  him,  if  a  oletgyman,  he  lies; 
Should  oaptaina  the  remark,  or  oritioB 
Th«j  nlBo  lie  too— under  a  mistako. 


Shelley,  in  his  translation  of  the  Maffico  Prodv/ioso  of  Cal- 
deron,  makes  Clarin  say  to  Moscon : — 


You  lie — under  a  mistake — 
Por  this  is  the  moat  oivil  sort 
That  can  be  given  to  a  man'a 
Say  what  I  think. 


And    De  Quineey,   Milton  : 


Souikey  and  Landw, 


You  ai-e  tempted,  after  walking  round  a  line  (of  Milton) 
threescore  times, to  exclaimat  last, — Well,  if  the  Fiend  himself 
should  rise  up  before  me  at  this  very  moment,  in  this  very 
study  of  mine,  and  say  that  no  screw  was  loose  in  that  line, 

then  would  I  reply:  "Sir,  with  due  submisBion,  you  are- ." 

"What!"  suppose  the  Fiend  suddenly  to  demand  in  thunder, 
"  What  am  I?"  "Horribly  wrong,"  you  wish  esoeedingly  to 
say ;  but,  recollecting  that  some  people  are  choleric  in  argu- 
ment, you  confine  yourself  to  the  polite  answer — "  That,  with 
deference  to  his  better  education,  you  conceive  bim  to  lie" — 
that's  a  bad  word  to  drop  jour  voice  upon  in  talking  with  a 
friend,  and  you  hasten  to  add— "under  a  slight,  a  very  slight 
mistake." 


lyGoogle 


^oO  I^fTERKUPTED   SENTENCES, 

Mr.  Montague  Mathew,  who  sometimes  amused  the  House  of 
Commons,  and  akrmed  the  Ministers,  with  his  brueqiierie,  set 
an  ingenious  example  to  those  who  are  at  once  forhidden  to 
Bpeafc,  and  yet  resolved  to  express  their  thoughts.  There  was 
a  debate  upon  the  treatmeot  of  Ireland,  and  Mathew  having 
been  called  to  order  for  taking  unseasonable  notice  of  the  enormi- 
ties attributed  to  the  British  Government,  spoke  to  the  following 
effect :— "  Oh,  very  well ;  I  shall  say  nothing  then  about  the 
murders~(Orfer,  order!)— I  shall  make  no  mention  of  the 
massacres— (^mr,  hear!  Order!)— Oii,  well;  I  shall  sink  all 
allusion  to  the  infiunous  half-hangings— (Orrfej-.onie*-/  Oaw' .') 
Lord  Chatham  onee  began  a  speech  on  West  Indian  affairs, 
m  the    House  of  Commons,   with    the   words:    "Sugar,  Mr. 

Speaker "  and  then,  observing  a  smile  to  prevail    m  the 

audience,  ho  paused,  looked  fiercely  around,  and  with  a  loud 
voice,  rising  in  its  notes,  and  swelling  mto  vehement  anger,  he 
is  said  to  have  pronounced  again  the  word  "  Sugar !"  three  times ; 
and  having  thus  quelled  the  House,  and  extinguished  every 
appearance  of  levity  or  laughfor,  turned  around,  and  disdain- 
fully asked,  "  Who  will  laugh  at  sugar  now  ?" 

Our  legislative  assemblies,  under  the  most  exciting  circum- 
stances, convey  no  notion  of  the  phrenzied  rage  which  some- 
times agitates  the  French.  Mirabeau  interrupted  once  at  every 
sentence  by  an  insult,  with  "  slanderer,"  "  liar,"  "  assassin," 
"  rascal,"  rattling  around  him,  addressed  the  most  fiirious  of  his 
assailants  in  the  softest  tone  he  could  assume,  saying,  "  I  pause, 
gentlemen,  till  these  civilities  are  exhausted," 

Mr.  Marten,  M.  P,,  was  a  great  wit.  One  evening  he  de- 
livered a  furious  philippic  against  Sir  Harry  Vane,  and  when  he 
had  buried  him  beneath  a  load  of  sarcasm,  he  said  r—  "  But  as 

for  young  Sir  Harry  Vane "  and  so  eat  down.     The  House 

was  astounded.  Several  members  esclaimed :  "  What  have  you 
to  say  agahist  young  Sir  Harry  ?"  Marten  at  once  rose  and  ad- 
ded :  "  Why,  if  young  Sir  Harry  lives  to  be  old,  he  wJU  be  old 
Sir  Harry." 


lyClOOglC 


ECHO   VERSE. 


3Sri)0  Vtx^t. 

\dd  son  s  ys  n  No  '><*  of  the  Spe  tator  I  find  1  Lew  a 
in  an  eat  t  ue9  tte  coDce  t  of  mak  n^  %n  hdho  t  Ik  en  biy 
au  1  g  ve  rat  nal  answe  -8  If  th  s  eouM  1  e  ex  usable  n  any 
wr  ter  t  would  be  n  Ov  1  wl  ere  he  nt  oduc  s  the  echo  a  a 
nyn  pi  hetore  he  waa  worn  awij  oto  noth  n^  but  a  vo  o 
(Alet  3T9  )  The  lei  ned  Erasm  s  tho  gl  a  min  of  iv  t 
an  J  gen  us  1  as  c  iu[  ed  a  d  ilog  e  pon  th  a  s  Uj  k  nd  t 
6e\  ce  aod  md  le  use  of  an  eol  o  who  seems  to  hwe  been  a 
est  -aord  nary  1  nguist  for  she  anawe  s  !  e  per  on  she  t  Iks 
w  th  n  Lit  n  Greek  and  Hebrew  io  ord  ag  as  she  found  tl  e 
syllables  wh  oh  she  wis  to  repeat  n  any  of  those  learned  1  u 
y  iges  H  !  bras  a  d  cule  of  th  s  false  k  nd  of  w  has 
descr  be  1  Bru  a  bewa  1  ng  the  loss  of  h  s  be^r  to  •»  "o]  tary 
echo  who  a  of  great  use  to  the  poet  n  several  d  st  oha  is  si  <• 
does  not  only  repeat  afler  h  m  but  helps  out  h  a  verse  an  1 
furn  ahes  h  n  w  th  rhy  nos 

Eur  p  de"  n  h  s  Andromeda — a  tiajjCdj  now  lost — ha  1  a 
s  m  lar  see  e  wh  ch  Ar  U  phine  makes  sp  rt  w  th  n  h  s  Fe  st 
of  Ceres.  In  the  Greek  Anthology  (iii.  6)  is  aa  epigram  ot 
Leonidas,  and  in  Book  IV.  are  some  lines  hj  Guaradas,  com- 


o  AX&  *ft- 

,ur  truyjta 

(Echo  1  I  love :  at 

The  French  bards 

in   th 

this  conceit.     Disrael 

gives 

oeities  of  Literature. 

The  1 

chimdeBeUay;— 

QuieBtl'antenrdeoe 

Qu'StoiB-je  a 

antd'en 

Qu'est^oe  qa' 

^mer  et 

DiB-moi  que: 

e  est  oel 

Bent-ello  bie 

Ii  doul 

■y  fond  of 

lia  Curi. 

ai     by  Joa- 


lyGoogle 


282  ECHO   VERSE. 

In  The  Progresses  of  Queen  Elizabeth  there  is  detailed  a 
masque,  which  was  enacted  for  her  Majesty's  pleasure,  in  which 
a  dialogue  was  held  with  Echo  "  devised,  penned,  and  pronounced 
hy  Master  Gascoigne,  and  that  upon  a  very  great  sudden," 

Here  are  three  of  the  verses  :— 


Veil,  Eo 


0,  toll  mo  jet, 
How  might  I  oome  to  see 
This  comely  Queen  of  whom  wa  talk? 
Oh,  were  she  now  by  thee  I 

B,th,.. 
By  me?  oh,  were  that  true, 

now  might  I  sea  her  face? 
How  might  I  know  her  from  the  rest, 
Or  judge  her  bj  ller  graoe  ? 

Iler  grime. 
Well,  then,  if  so  mine  oyes 

Eo  Buoh  lis  thej  have  heen, 
Methinks  I  see  nmong  them  all 
ThiB  sniue  should  be  the  Queen. 

Tlio  Qucon. 

LONDON  BEFORE  THE   RESTORATION. 


n  this  sad  taking? 
3siding? 


Wliut  niuit'et  thou  that  thou  ai 

Wliat  made  him  heuoe  move  hii 

I>id  any  here  deny  him  satisfaction  ? 

faotisn. 
Tell  me  whereon  this  strength  of  faction  lies? 

on  liea. 
What  didst  thou  do  when  King  left  Parliament  ? 

What  terms  wouldst  giro  to  gain  his  company? 

Bnt  thou  Bouldat  serve  him  with  thy  best  endeavor? 

What  wouldst  thou  do  if  thon  oouldst  here  behold  him? 
hold  him 


lyClOOglC 


ECUO  VERSE.  283 

The  foUowing  song  was  written  by  Addison ; — 

Echo,  tell  me,  nhila  I  wander 

O'er  this  fairy  plain  to  prove  him, 
If  mj  ehepherd  sOlI  grows  fonder. 

Ought  I  m  return  to  love  him  ? 

Echo. — Love  him,  love  him. 
If  he  loves,  as  is  the  fashion. 

Should  I  chnrliahlj  forsake  him? 
Or,  in  pity  tn  his  passion, 

Eondlj  lo  mj  bosom  take  him? 

aSo.— Take  him,  lake  liim. 
Thy  adviiffl,  then,  I'll  adhere  to, 

Sinoe  in  Cupid's  chains  Tve  led  him. 
And  nith  Henry  shall  not  foar  to 

Marry,  if  yon  answer,  "Wad  !iim." 

Echo.~-Wci  him,  wed  him. 

PASQUINADE 

The  following  squib,  cited  hy  Mr  Motley  m  his  Dutch  &- 
public,  from  a  MS.  collection  of  pa&quiK    showi  the  prevalent 
opinion  in  the  Netherlands  concerning  tte  parentdge  of  Don 
John  of  Austria  and  the  position  of  Baibari  Blomborg: — 
— eed  at  Austrincum  uoatrum  redciunus — eamus 
Hunt  Cssaris  flUum  esse  satis  est  notum — notum 

CujuE  ergo  lilium  enm.diennt  Itali— /iu?i 

Verum  matar  satis  est  nota  in  nostra  rapnhlKH^-jjuWiea 

Imo  hnotenus  egil  in  Brabantii  ter  veare — hnere 

Crimen  est  ne  frui  amplesu  unius  Ce'ari"  lam  ganerobi — oai 


post  CesaiTB  oong 
e  garrnla  ne  lale  q 
cis  qud  pcena  afEe 

rassum  non  rero  anie— a 
uippiam  loquare-quare 
endumdiientUelginmi 

GOSPEL 

ECHO. 

n  a  y™  i» 

achw 

h  in  SwUi 

nd,  ««!!«>  i„ 

True  fitith  produo 
Say,  Echo,  is  not 

ag  love  to 
this  the  go 
-The  gosp 

Sod  and  man 
pel  plan? 
el  plan! 

Must  I  my  fidth  in  Jesns  oonstant  show, 
By  doing  good  to  all,  both  ftiend  and  foe? 
£cio.— Both  friend  and  foe ! 


lyClOOglC 


ECHO    TERSE. 
When  men  conspire  to  iata  and  treat  mo  ill, 

£cJo.— Love  them  still  I 
If  they  my  failings  causelessly  rcreal, 
Must  I  their  faults  as  carefully  ooncoal? 

&Ad,— As  eaiefally  coooeal  1 
But  if.my  name  and  charaeter  Ihej  tear, 
And  cruel  malice  too,  too  plain  appear; 

Thay  smile,  and  add  onto  my  cup  of  noe; 
Bay,  Echo,  say,  in  such  peoaliar  case. 
Must  I  continue  still  to  love  and  bleaaf 

Eeho—BHa  lOTe  and  falessl 
Why,  Echo,  how  is  this?    Tbou'rt  sure  a  dova: 
Ihj  voice  will  leave  me  nothing  else  but  love  I 

&Ad.— Nothing  else  but  love ! 
Amen,  with  all  my  heart,  then  be  it  ao; 
And  now  to  practice  I'll  directly  go. 

jGcAo.— Directly  gol 
Thia  path  bo  mine;  and,  let  wha  itill  rigoot. 
My  gracious  God  me  surely  will  prelect. 

i'cio.— Surely  will  proteot! 
Henceforlh  on  him  I'll  oa^t  my  every  oaro. 
And  fnonda  and  foea,  embrace  them  all  in  prayer. 

£eAu.— Embrace  them  all  in  prayer. 

ECHO   AKD   THE  LOVER. 
LovEB.— Echo  !  mysterious  nymph,  deeliire 


Lover.— Mid  airy  eliffa  and  places  high. 

Sweet  Echo !  listening,  lovo,  you  lie — 
Echo.—  You  lie  1 


tovEK. — Then  do 
Hark! 

EOHO^ 

t  reauscitoto  dead  sounds— 
ow  my  voice  revives,  resounda ! 
Zounds  1 

LovEH.— ni  quea 
Come,  a 
Echo.— 

ion  thee  before  I  go — 

nswer  me  more  apropos  1 

Poh!  pohl 

LoTEK.— Tell  me 
So  swee 

fair  nymph,  if  e'er  yoa  saw 
agirlaarhffiheShan? 

lyGoogle 


ECHO    PERSE. 

Lover. — Say,  what  will  turn  that  frisking  coney 

Intu  tho  toils  of  matrimony? 
Ecno.—  Money! 

LoVEB.— Has  Phteho  not  a  heavenly  hrowF 


-Her  eyes!    Was  ever  sQoh  a  pair ? 
Are  the  stars  hrighter  than  fhsy  are! 
They  are  ! 


ECHO   ON   WOMAN. 


These  verses  of  Dean  Swift  were  supposed,  by  the  late  Mr. 
R«ed,  to  have  been  written  either  in  imitation  of  Lord  Stir- 
ling's  Aurora,  or  of  a  scene  of  Robert  Taylor's  old  play,  en- 


titled  The  Hog  Ans  loit  his  Pearl. 

Shephehd.— Echo,  I  ween,  will  in  the  woods  reply, 

And  quaintly  answer  queationa.     Shall  I  try? 

SUSP 

—What  must  wa  do  our  passion  to  ospreas? 

Shhp 
Echo 
She:? 
Echo 
Shep 

—How  shall  I  please  her  who  ne'er  loved  l>efore? 

—  Be  fore. 
—What  moat  moves  women  when  we  them  addrcaaf 

—  A  dross. 
-Say,  what  can  keep  her  ohaste  whom  I  adore? 

Sbep 

. — If  music  softens  roolrs,  love  tunes  my  lyre. 

Ecno 
Shbp 

—Then  teach  me.  Echo,  how  shall  I  eome  bj  ho(? 
—                                                        Buy  her. 
—When  hougbl,  no  qncstion  I  shall  be  her  dear. 

Shep 
Echo 

— But  deet  have  horns:  how  must  I  keep  her  under? 
—                                                        Keep  her  under. 

lyGoogle 


ECHO   VERSE. 

S[[EP,— But  wh&t  can  glad  ma  nhea  she's  laid  on  bier? 

Echo 

—                                                        Beer. 

—What  must  I  do  when  women  will  be  kind  f 

—                                                        Be  kind. 

Bhkp 

— That  must  I  do  when  women  will  be  cross  ? 

Echo 

—                                                        Be  oroas. 

Bbep 

—Lord  1  what  k  she  Uiat  oan  so  turn  and  wind? 

Echo 

Wind. 

SSEP 

—If  ahe  he  wind,  what  EtUls  her  when  she  blows  7 

Echo 

—                                                        Blows. 

Shep 

—But  If  eba  bong  a«ain,  still  siiould  I  bang  lier  ?, 

Echo 

—                                                        Bang  her. 

Shep 

— Is  there  no  way  to  moderate  her  anger? 

Echo 

-                                                        Hang  her. 

— ThQnSs,  gentle  Echo  !  right  thy  answers  tell 

What  noman  is,  and  how  to  guard  her  well. 

Echo 

—                                                 euard  her  well. 

0   THE   ECHO. 

The  origiDal  publication  of  the  following  exposed  the  pub- 
lisher, Palm,  of  Nuremberg,  to  trial  by  court-martial.  He  was 
sentenced  to  be  shot  at  Braunau  in  1807, — a  severe  retribution 
for  a  few  lines  of  poetrj. 

— Alone  I  am  in  tliis  sequestered  spot,  not  overbewd. 


ECH. 


— 'Sdeath  !  Who  answers  me  ?  What  being  is  theis  nigh  F 

— L 

— Kow  I  guess !    To  report  my  aoeenta  Beho  has  made  her  i^k. 

—Ask, 

— Enowest  thou  whether  London  will  henceforOi  continue  to  resist? 


— Oh,  HeaTen !  what  must  I  expeet  after  so 
10. — Reverses. 

— Wbfttl  should  r,  like  coward  vile 

— Reduced. 

— After  so  many  bright  exploits  be  farced  to  restitution  ? 


□pound  bo  reduced  ? 


L  of  what  I've  got  by  true  herole  f< 


lyGoogle 


ECHO   VERBB. 

EnNA.     Whiit  ivill  bcooiDB  of  my  people,  already  too  unlappy? 

Tlono 

— Happj. 

Bona 

—What  siiould  I  then  be  that  I  think  mywlf  immortal  ? 

Himn 

—Mortal. 

Bona 

—The  whole  world  is  filled  with  tha  glory  of  my  name,  yo 

Echo 

—No. 

Hon  A 

—Formerly  its  fama  atrucli  tha  vast  globe  with  terror. 

—Error. 

JioNA 

—Sad  Boho,  begone !  I  grow  mfariate !  I  die  1 

KOHO 

-Die!* 

EPIGRAM   ON  THE   STNOD   OP   DORT. 

Dordreohti  BjnoduE,  nodus;  otorua  integer,  sgeri 
Conventua,  rentus;  seaaio  stramen.     Amen! 

Keferring  to  the  extravagant  price  domanded  in  London,  in 
1831',  to  see  and  hear  the  Orpheus  of  violinists,  the  Sunday 
Times  asked,— 

What  are  they  who  pay  throi 


>  of  Pagani. 


•s? 


EcHO.-Paali 

o'  ninnies. 

THE 

critic' 

EPIGRAMMATIC   EX 

CIFSE. 

I'd  fain 

praise  y 

ur  poem 

but  toll  mo,  how 

is  it. 

Whenl 

ory  out. 

•Esau! 

lie,"  Bcbo  ories, 

Quin  itl" 

ECHO   ANSWERTNG, 

What 

rauatbe'd 

ono  to  CO 

duct  a  n 

ewspaper  right?— 

Write.^ 

What 

ry  fur  a  f 

What 

would  gi 

e  a  blind 

man  the 

grealeal  delight? 

-Light. 

What 

is  the  bos 

counsel  given  by 

a  justioe  or  tho  p 

eaoef-Peaoe. 

ommit  the  greatest 

abomina 

lionaP— Nations. 

What 

cry  is  the 

errilior? 

-Fire. 

What 

are  some 

woman's 

hiefeia 

fciae?— SlgbB. 

'Napoleon  himself,  (Foioe/fo™  Si. Selena,)  when  asked  about  the  cxe- 
oution  of  Palm,  said,  "All  tlw.t  I  recollect  is,  Ibat  Palm  was  arrested  by 
jrder  of  Davoust,  and,  I  belieTo,  tried,  oondemned,  and  shot,  for  having, 
while  the  country  was  in  possesBion  of  the  French  and  under  military 
ooonpation,  not  only  excited  rebellion  among  the  inhabitants  and  urged 
Ihem  to  rise  and  massaora  the  soldiers,  but  also  attempted  to  instigate  tha 
soldiers  themaelvea  to  refiise  obedience  to  their  orders  and  to  mutiny  against 
their  generals.     I  belieire  that  he  met  with  a  fair  trial." 


lyGoogle 


ECHOES. 


remakkabt.t:  echufs 

An  Mho  in  Woodstuok  Park,  Oxfordshire,  repeats  seventeen 
sjlhtles  by  day,  and  twenty  by  nii^ht.  One  on  the  banks  of 
the  Lago  del  Lupn,  above  the  fall  of  Terni,  repeats  fifteen. 
But  the  most  remarkable  echo  known  ia  one  on  the  north  side 
of  Shipley  Church,  in  Susses,  which  distinctly  repeita  twenty- 
one  syllables. 

In  the  Abbey  church  at  St.  Alban's  is  a  curious  echo.  The 
tick  of  a  watch  may  be  heard  from  one  end  of  the  chutch  to 
the  other.  In  Gloucester  Cathedral,  a  gallery  of  an  octagon  il 
form  conveys  a  wliisper  aeyenty-five  feet  across  the  nave 

The  following  inscription  is  copied  from  this  gallery  : — 
Doubt  not  but  God,  who  aits  on  high. 

When  a  dead  wall  tins  cunningly 
Conveja  soft  whispors  to  the  ear. 

In  the  Cathedral  of  Girgenti,  in  Sicily,  the  slightest  whisper 
is  borne  with  perfect  distinctness  from  the  great  western  door  to 
the  cornice  behind  the  high  altar, — a  distance  of  two  hundred 
and  fifty  feet.  By  a  most  uuluoky  coincidence,  the  precise 
focus  of  divergence  at  the  former  station  was  chosen  for  the 
place  of  the  confessional.  Secrets  never  intended  for  the  pub- 
lic car  thus  beaame  known,  to  the  dismay  of  the  confessors, 
and  the  scandal  of  the  people,  by  the  resort  of  the  curious  to 
the  opposite  point,  (which  seems  to  have  been  discovered  acoi- 
dontaily,)  till  at  length,  one  listener  having  had  his  curiosity 
somewhat  over-gratified  by  hearing  his  wife's  avowal  of  her 
own  infidelity,  this  tell-tale  peculiarity  became  generally  known, 
and  the  confessional  was  removed. 

In  the  whispering-gallery  of  St.  Paul's,  London,  the  faintest 
sound  is  faithfully  conveyed  from  one  side  to  the  other  of  the 
dome,  but  is  not  heard  at  any  intermediate  point. 

In  the  Manfroni  Palace  at  Tenioe  is  a  square  room  about 
twenty-five  feet  high,  with  a  concave  roof,  in  which  a  person 
Bta,nding  in  the  centre,  and  stamping  gently  with  his  foot  on  the 
floor,  hears  the  sound  repeated  a  great  many  times ;  but  as  his 
position  deviates  from  the  centre,  the  reflected  sounds  grow 


lyGoogle 


fainter,  and  at  a  short  distance  wholly  cease.  The  same  plie- 
iiomenoa  occurs  in  the  large  room  of  the  Library  of  the 
Muaeum  at  Naples. 


EXTaAORMNARY  FACTS   IN   1 

An  intelligent  and  very  respectable  gentleman,  named  Ebene- 
zer  Snell,  who  is  still  living,  at  the  age  of  eighty  and  upwards, 
was  in  a  corn-field  with  a  negro  on  the  17th  of  June,  1776,  in 
th    t  w     h  p    t  r   mm    gt        M  h      d    d       d  tw     t3 

m  1     w    t    f  B     k     H 11  by  th  f  th         d       d 

tit         huddby  1  Smt         d       gtl 

d  y    th  w       lyi  th  d         d       m    k  d   t 


Eb 


th  t  th 


1       th  d 

d    I     h      d  th    d  I 


Eb 


)  t  h 


Idd    t     tly 


to  th 


m    d   as  pi      ly       th       h    t  wjs  y    te  d  y 

Owt  f        f  dpptdwth 

k  bl     1  d    t        th      D     H  tt         1  t     th  t 

I      t  p    t    f  th    rh  uj  CI   1        h         H  h  I 

son  lead  distinctly  at  the  distance  of  one  bundled  and  forty  teet, 
while  on  the  land  the  same  could  only  be  heard  at  seventy-six. 
Lieut.  Poster,  in  the  third  Polar  expedition  of  (Japt.  Parry,  found 
that  he  could  hold  conversation  with  a  man  across  the  harbor  of 
I'ort  Bowen,  a  distance  of  six  thousand  six  hundred  and  ninety- 
six  feet,  or  about  a  mile  and  a  quarter.  This,  however,  falls  short, 
of  what  is  asserted  by  Derham  and  Dr.  Young, — viz.,  that  at 
Gibraltar  the  hnmaa  voice  has  been  heard  at  the  distance  of 
ten  miles,  the  distance  across  the  strait. 

Dr.  Hearn,  a  Swedish  physician,  relates  that  he  heard  guns- 
fired  at  Stockholm,  on  the  occasion  of  the  death  of  one  of  the 
royal  family,  in  1685,  at  the  distance  of  thirty  Swedish  or  one 
hundred  and  eighty  British  miles. 

The  cannonade  of  a  sea-fight  between  the  English  and. 
Dutch,  in  16T2,  was  heard  across  England  as  far  as-Sbrews- 
bury,  and  even  in  Wales,  a  distance  of  upwards  of  two-hundred, 
miles  from  the  scene  of  action. 


lyGoogle 


^unifs 


H  ddh  bbpd 

riddle  piopounded  bj  a  simple  fisherman, —  Leaving  uhat . 
taken,  what  we  took  not  we  bring."  Aristotle  waa  amazingly 
perplexed,  and  Pbiletaa,  the  celebrated  grammarian  and  poet  of 
Coii,  puzzled  bimself  to  death  in  fruitless  endeavors  to  boIyo  the 
ajpbiam  called  by  the  anoienta  TkeLiar  —  If  you  siy  of  your 
f,elt  '  I  lie  and  m  so  sayiug  tell  the  truth  you  lie  If  you 
say,  'I  lie '  and  in  so  say  ng  tell  a  lie  yDU  tell  the  truth " 
De'sn  Swift,  who  could  ""o  a^roeibly  descenJ  to  the  slightest 
ba  linage  was  very  food  of  puzzles  Miny  of  the  be-^t  ri  idles 
in  Liroulation  may  be  tiaced  to  the  "iportive  moments  jt  mt,n 
of  the  greatest  celebrity  who  gladly  [,eek  occasional  relaxation 
frcm  the  gravel  pursuits  of  Iifo   in  comparative  trifles 

Mrs  Barbauld  says  Fin  Jing  out  riddles  is  the  same  kind  of 
exercise  for  the  mind  as  running,  leaping,  and  wiestlmg  are  foe 
the  body.  They  are  of  no  use  in  themselves;  they  are  not 
work,  but  play;  but  they  prepare  the  body,  and  make  it  alert 
aod  active  for  any  thing  it  may  be  called  upon  to  perform.  So 
does  the  finding  out  good  riddles  give  quickness  of  thought, 
and  faeibty  for  turning  about  a  problem  every  way,  and  viewing 
it  in  every  possible  light. 

The  French  have  excelled  all  other  people  in  this  species  of 
literary  amusement.  Their  language  is  favorable  to  it,  and 
■their  writers  have  always  indulged  a  fondness  for.it.     As  a 


lyClOOglC 


PUZZLES.  291 

specimen  of  the  ingenuity  of  the  earlier  literati,  we  transcribe 
a  rebus  of  Jean  Marot,  a  favorite  old  priest,  and  valet-de- 
cliambre  to  Francis  I.  It  would  be  inexplicable  to  most  readers 
without  the  version  in  common  French,  which  is  sabjoioed : — 


Male   fuB    qu 

and    pr    s'am 

Cor     j'apper 

es    migJlj, 

que 

Etoient  d'amo 

r    mil    aa 

Ecus    da    ells    a    pris 


t  quaiid  je  veui  cIibz  elle  e  fair 
o  dit  to  J  us  mal  apprls 


D'una  subtile  entr6e  tous  affolt^e, 
Que  BOU3  eapoir  ai  aouvflnt  flouhaitfo, 
Maia  flis  defuo,  quand  B'amour  enlrepi 
Car  J'appcr9na  qne  sea  mignards  aouria 


i  olle  a  pf  le, 
:x  Clio  faire  eu 


lyClOOglC 


BONAPARTE AN   CYPHER. 


The  folluwing  is  a  key  to  the  cjpher  in  which  Napoleon 
Bonaparte  carried  on  his  priva^  correspondence  ; — 


A 

B 

D 

V 

i- 

p 

-|^ 

p 

i- 

^ 

h 

^ 

T 

1 

E 
P 

^ 

ir 

" 

I 
Iv 

^ 

-;- 

; 

L 

— 

» 

JJ 

; 

r 

Q 

■ir 

■f 

? 

^ 

^ 

-^ 

q 

T 
U 

°, 

p 

W 
X 

• 

: 

Y 

; 

q 

B 

" 

The  suhjoined  is 
to  the  Eiench  aim; 
or  more  persona  la 


prodamatnn,  m  nphpr,  frrin  Bonaparte 
a  copy  jf  which  was  in  the  hinds  of  one 
lost  every  regiment  in  the  service. 


NeyiptKh  klmoi  anel  ziumoettlklmBr  rtg7kp 
Aebwbrdpkdabkfntz  mep  nggnymgi  gq 
Bldearonwxql  kiil>eh  intmjEnqangopolfa 
PmmfnmpabJBrwwqBnnuruYs^kqdknh 
HihjdghbajlidfqkDgtiyogwrlnlwWiy 
Phi'iBopbgairfghpsHWrwlq  pignerkfl 


lyGoogle 


PUZZLES.  293 

The  same  deciphored  by  means  of  the  table  and  key : — 

"  Fran^aia !  Totre  pays  6toit  trahi ;  votre  Emporonr  seal  pcut  tous  ro- 
mottre  dans  la  position  aplendide  quo  oonvient  i.  la  France.  Donne!  toute 
votro  confiauoe  i  oelul  qui  Tons  a  toujours  eonduit  i  la  gloire.  Sea  aiglea 
pleniront  encore  en  Pair  et  6tonneront  les  natioaa."- 

Fionohmen !  your  euuntrj  was  betrayed ;  your  Emperor  alone  can  replace 
you  in  the  aplendid  stale  euitable  to  France.  Give  yonr  entire  confidence 
to  him  who  has  always  led  you  to  glory.  His  oaglea  will  again  soar  on 
high  and  strike  the  nationa  with  astonishment. 

The  key  (which,  it  will  be  seen,  may  be  changed  at  pleasure) 
was  in  this  instance  "  La  France  ot  ma  famille,"  France  and 
my  family.     It  is  thus  used  :■ — . 

L  being  the  first  letter  of  tjie  key,  refer  to  that  letter  in  the 
first  column  of  the  cypher  in  capitals  j  then  look  for  the  letter/, 
which  ia  the  first  letter  of  the  proclamation,  and  that  letter 
which  corresponds  with/  being  placed  undomeath,  viz.,  n,  is 
that  which  ia  to  be  noted  down.  To  decipher  the  proclama- 
tion, of  course  the  order  of  reference  muat  be  inverted,  by 
looking  for  the  corresponding  letter  to  n  in  the  division  oppo- 
site that  letter  h  which  stands  in  the  column. 

CASE  FOB  THE  LAWYERS. 
X.  Y.  applies  to  A.  B.  to  become  a  law  pupil,  offering  to  pay 
him  the  customary  fee  as  soon  as  he  shall  have  gained  hia  Jlrst 
suit  in  law.  To  this  A.  B.  formally  agrees,  and  admits  X.  Y. 
to  the  privileges  of  a  student.  Before  the  termination  of  X. 
Y.'s  pupilage,  however,  A.  B.  gets  tired  of  waiting  for  his 
money,  and  determines  to  sue  X.  Y.  for  (he  amount.  He  rea- 
sons thus  :^If  I  gain  this  case,  X.  Y.  will  be  compelled  to  pay 
me  by  the  decision  of  the  court ;  if  I  lose  it,  he  will  have  to 
pay  mo  by  the  oondition  of  our  contract,  he  having  won  his 
first  law-suit.  But  X.  Y.  need  not  be  alarmed  when  he  learns 
A.  B.'a  intention,  for  he  may  reason  similarly.  He  may  say, — 
If  I  succeed,  and  the  award  of  the  court  is  in  my  favor,  of 
course  I  shall  not  have  to  pay  the  money  ;  if  the  court  decides 
against  me,  I  shall  not  have  to  pay  it,  accordiug  to  the  terms  of 
our  contract,  aa  I  shall  not  yet  have  gained  my  first  suit  in  law. 
Vive  ia  logigue. 


lyGoogle 


SIB  ISAAC   MEWTON  S  EIDDLB, 
Pour  personE  snt  dovfo  at  a  table  to  plaj. 
They  played  all  that  night  and  part  of  next  day. 
It  must  be  obaerFed  thnt  when  they  were  seated, 
Bobody  played  with  them,  and  nobody  betted; 
When  they  roaa  from  the  place,  each  naa  winner  a  guini 
Now  tell  me  this  riddle,  and  prove  you're  no  ninny. 

cowper's  riddle. 

I  am  just  two  and  two,  I  am  warm,  I  am  coH, 
And  the  parent  of  numbers  tbat  oannot  ba  told; 
I  am  lawful,  nnlawful,— a  duty,  a  fault, 
I  am  often  sold  dear,  good  for  nothing  when  bought, 
An  eitraordinary  boon,  and  a  matter  of  oourae. 
And  yielded  with  pleaaura-rwiien  taken  by  force. 


CANNING  B  RIDDLE. 
There  is  a  word  of  plural  number, 
A  foe  fo  peaoe  and  human  slumber  : 
Now,  any  word  you  ehanco  lo  take. 
By  adding  S,  yon  plural  make; 
Ent  if  yoa  add  an  S  to  this, 
How  strange  the  metamorphosis  I 

And  Eweet,  what  bitter  was  before. 


The  following  enigma  was  found  in  the  will  of  Miss  Anna 
Seward  (the  Swan  of  Liohfleld),  with  directions  to  pay  £50  to 
the  person  who  should  discover  the  solution.  Whan  competi- 
tion for  the  prize  was  exhausted,  it  was  discovered  to  be  a.  eur- 
t£dled  copy  of  a  rehus  published  in  the  Gentleman's  Magazine, 
March,  1757,  and  at  that  time  attributed  to  Lord  Chesterfield. 

The  noblest  object  in  the  works  of  art. 

The  brightost  scenes  which  naturo  can  impart ; 

The  well-known  signal  in  the  time  of  peaoe. 

The  point  essential  in  a  tenant's  lea^e  ; 

The  farmer's  comfort  as  ho  drives  the  plough, 

A  soldier's  duty,  and  alovet'fi  vow; 

A  contract  made  before  the  nuptial  tie, 


lyGoogle 


w  charms  to  pretty  faoes. 


Tho  death  of  Judas,  and  tlio  fall  of  Evej 
A  part  betweeu  tho  ankle  and  tho  knoo, 
A  papist's  toast,  and  a  phjsioiaii'a  foe ; 
A  wife's  ambition,  and  a  parson's  duss, 
A  miser'a  idol,  and  tho  badge  of  Jews, 
w  your  happy  genius  eon  divine 


The, 

Sj  tho  I 


,  city  that  is 


.lainlj  may  be  fonnd 


QUIMOr'S  COMPARISON. 

Josiah  Quincy,  in  the  courie  of  i  speech  id  Congress  lu 
1806,  on  the  embargo,  used  tho  fuliowmg  Uoguage  — 

They  who  introduced  it  abjured  iD  They  who  -idyooited  it 
did  not  wish,  and  scarcely  Inew,  it^  use  And  now  that  it  is 
said  to  be  extended  oyer  us,  no  imn  in  this  nation,  who  valuPS 
hia  reputation,  will  take  his  Bible  o'ith  that  it  11  in  effectual 
aod  legal  opeia.tion  There  is  an  old  riddle  on  1  coffin,  which 
I  presume  we  all  learned  when  we  were  bo\a  that  1^  as  perfect 
1  n-preaentation  of  the   origin,   progress,  and   present  state  of 


this  Ihinf; 
ceiTcd  ;— 


lallcd  I 


n  mteroourbe,  as  it  is  possible  to  be  c 


Whelhar  he  had  it^  yea  or  no. 
True  it  ia,  that  if  this  n  on -intercourse  shall  ever  be,  in 
reality,  subtended  over  us,  the  similitude  will  lail  in  a  material 
point.  The  poor  tenant  of  the  coffin  is  ignora,nt  of  his  state. 
But  the  people  of  tho  United  States  will  be  literally  buried 
alive  in  non-intercourse,  and  realize  the  grave  closing  on  theai- 
selves  and  on  their  hopes,  with  a  full  and  uruel  oonsciousneaa 
of  all  the  horrors  of  their  condition. 


lyClOOglC 


296  PUZZLES. 

8INGIILAII  INTERMARRIAGES. 

There  were  married  at  Durham,  Canada  Eaat,  an  old  lady  and 
gentleman,  involving  the  following  interesting  connections: — 

The  old  gentleman  is  married  to  his  daughter's  husband's 
mother-in-law,  and  his  daughter's  husband's  wife's  mother. 
And  yet  she  is  not  his  daughter's  mother ;  but  she  is  his  grand- 
children's grandmother,  and  his  wife's  grandchildren  are  hia 
daughter's  step-children.  Consequectlj  the  old  lady  is  united 
in  the  bonds  of  holy  matrimony  and  conjugal  iffectiun  to  Vr 
daughter's  brother-in-law's  father-in-Uw,  and  her  great  grand 
children's  grandmother's  step-father ,  -o  that  her  son  in  hw 
may  say  to  his  children,  Your  graadmcther  is  niain»d  to  nij 
father-in-law,  and  yet  he  is  not  your  grandfather,  but  he  is 
your  grandmother's  son-in-law's  wife  s  fither  This  gentle 
man  married  his  son-in-law's  father-in  law's  wife,  and  he  :s 
hound  to  support  and  protect  her  for  life  His  wite  is  his 
son-in-law's  children's  grandmother,  and  his  son-in  law's  grind 
children's  great-grandmother. 

A  Mr.  riarwood  had  two  daughters  by  his  first  wife,  the 
eldest  of  whom  was  married  to  John  Coshiek ;  this  Ooshick 
had  a  daughter  by  his  first  wife,  whom  old  Harwood  married, 
and  by  her  he  had  a  son ;  therefore,  John  Coahick's  second 
wife  could  say  as  follows  : — 

My  father  is  mj  eon,  and  I'm  my  motlier'a  mother; 
Mj  sister  is  my  daughlar,  and  I'm  grandmothor  to  my  brofter. 
PROPHETIC   DISTICH. 

In  the  year  1531,  the  following  couplet  was  found  written  on 
the  wall  behind  the  altar  of  the  Augustinian  monastery  at 
Gotha,  when  the  building  was  taken  down  : — 

MC  qnadratum,  LX  quoqne  dnplioatnm, 
ORAPS  peribit  et  Huaa  Wiclefque  redlbit. 

MC  quadratum  is  MCCCO,  i.e.  1400.  LX  duplieatum  is 
LLXX,  i.e.  130  —  1520.  ORAPS  is  an  abbreviation  for  ora 
pro  nobis  (pray  for  ua).  The  meaning  is,  that  in  the  sixteenth 
century  praying  to  the  saints  will  cease,  and  Husa  and  Wiokliffe 
will  again  be  recognized. 


lyGoogle 


THE    NUMBER   OP  THE   BEAST. 


Among  the  curious  things  extant  in  relation  to  Lutliei"  ia  the 
Dovert  attompt  of  an  ingenious  theological  opponent  to  make 
him  the  apocalyptic  boast  or  antichrist  described  in  Revelation 
ch.  siii.  The  mysterious  number  of  the  beast,  "  six  hundred 
threescore  and  six,"  excited  the  curiosity  of  mankind  at  a  very 
early  period,  particularly  that  of  Irenaena,  in  the  second  cen- 
tury, who  indulged  in  a  variety  of  shrewd  conjectiirns  on  the 
subject.  But  after  discovering  the  number  in  several  names, 
he  modestly  says,  "  Yet  I  venture  not  to  pronounce  positively 
concerning  the  name  of  antichrist,  for,  had  it  been  intended  to 
be  openly  proclaimed  to  the  present  generarion,  it  would  have 
been  uttered  by  the  same  person  who  saw  the  rsvelation."  A 
later  expositor,  Fevardent,  in  his  Notes  on  Irenaaus,  adds  to 
the  list  the  name  of  Martin  Lnther,  which,  he  says,  was  origi- 
nally written  Martin  Lauter.  "  Initio  vocabatur  Martin  Lavter," 
says  Fevardent ;  "  cujua  nominis  literas  si  Pythagoriae  et  ratione 
subducas  et  more  Hebrteorum  et  Grsecorura  alphabeti  orescat 
numerna,  prime  monadum,  deinde  decadum,  hino  centuriarum. 


pen 


nominis  Be 
i.  hoc  pacto." 


',  tandem  t 


It  is  but  just  to  Fevardent,  however,  to  observe  that  he  sub- 
sequently gave  the  prefertnce  to  MaomHii,. 


.  LOGO GRAPH. 

Galileo  was  the  first  to  observe  a  peculiarity  in  the  planet 
Saturn,  but  his  telescope  had  not  sufficient  refractive  power  to 
It  appeared  to  him  like  three  bodies  ar- 


lyClOOglC 


298  PUZZLES. 

ranged  ia  tbe  same  straigtt  line,  of  which  the  middle  was  the 
largest,  thus,  oQo .  He  announaed  hia  discovery  to  Kepler 
under  the  veil  of  a,  logograph,  which  sorely  puaaled  his  illustrious 
cotemporary.  This  is  not  to  he  wondered  at,  for  it  ran — 
SmasmrmilmcpoetalevniihvQioDvgttaviras. 
Restoring  the  transposed  letters  to  their  proper  places,  we 
have  the  followiug  sentence  : — 

Altlssimum  plauctam  torgcmiuuni  obscrTavi. 
{I  haTfl  observed  ths  most  distant  planet  to  be  threefold.) 


PERSIAN 
Between  a  Ihltik-^t  hedge  ef 
A  small  red  dug  now  bnrka,  n 


With  leather  batwean. 

And  sniili  it  doth  go. 

'eippBJiS'B  tram  ifiiii.  'asjoii  tiQ 


CHINESE  TEA   SONG. 

Punch  has  favored  the  world  with  the  following  song,  sung 
before  her  Britannic  Majesty  by  a  Chinese  lady.  It  looks  rather 
difficult  at  first;  hut  if  the  reader  studies  it  attentively,  he  will 
see  how  easy  it  is  to  read  Chinese  ; — 

Ohc  ometo  tti  ele  naho  pwit  hme, 

Andb  nja  po  undo  f  thebe  at, 
'Tifillpr  oveam  oatex  oellentt  ea, 

Itsc[  na  lit  jal  Iwi  Ua  tte  sU 
'Tiao  nlyf  onrah  illi  nga  apo  und, 


DEATH   AND 
cur  f  w  6 

A        eed        lend        ruugbt 


lyClOOglC 


ruzzLES.  299 

THE  REBUS. 

Ben  Jonaon,  in  iiis  play  The  Alchemist,  taiea  an  opportunity 
of  ridiculing  tlie  Rebus,  among  the  other  follies  of  hia  day 
which  he  so  trenchantly  satirizes.  When  Ahel  Druggor,  the 
simple  tobacconist,  applies  to  the  impostor  Subtle  to  invent  for 
him  a  sign-board  that  will  magically  attract  customera  to  hia 
shop,  the  cheat  says  to  his  confederate,  in  presence  of  their 
admiring  dupe, — 

Pormea  in  bohib  mjstio  character,  whuse  radii, 
■  Striking  the  sansca  of  Qie  pa^scrs-bj, 
SliaJI,  bj  a  vlrtnal  influence,  breed  affeotiona 
That  may  resnll  upon  ths  partj  owns  it 
As  thus:     He  first  shall  have  a  JeJi— that's  AM,- 
And  by  it  standing  ono  whoso  name  ia  Dee, 
Tn  ariiff  gown;  there's  Jf  and  riig — that's  Drug ! 
And  right  anenet  hta  a  dog  anarling  «■— 
There's  Dmgger,     Abel  Dbubger,  that'a  hia  sign, 
And  hera'a  now  mystery  and  hieroglyphic 

A  motto  of  the  Baoou  family  in  Somersetahire  has  an  inge- 

,  ProBa-conScientia  ; 
the  capitals,  thus  placed,  giving  it  the  double  reading,  Proba 
consoientia,  and  Pro  Bacon  Scientia. 


'Twna  read  by  one  who  lost  his  f 
Tha  Dumb  ropeated  it  word  for  i 
And  he  was  Deaf  who  listened  ai 


The  Book  of  Biddies  alluded  to  by  Shakspeare  in  the  Men-y 
Wives  of  Windsor  (Act  I.  so.  1)  is  tnontioned  by  Laneham, 
1575  and  in  the  English  Courtier,  1586 ;  but  the  earliest  edi- 
tion of  this  popular  collection  now  preserved  ia  dated  1629.  It 
is  entitled  The  Booke  of  Merry  Riddles,  together  with  proper 
Questions  and  witty  Proverls  to  make  pleasant  pastime;  no 
less  nsefuU  then  behovefuU  for  any  yong  man  or  child,  to  know 


lyClOOglC 


if  he  he  quick-viiUed  or  no.     The  followiog  extract  from  this 
verj  rare  wort  will  be  found  interesting. 

Sere  hegiitneth  the  firU  Riddh. 

Two  legs  sat  upon  throe  legs,  and  liad  one  leg  in  her  haod ; 
then  in  came  fours  legs,  and  bare  away  one  leg;  then  up  start 
two  logs,  and  threw  three  legs  at  foure  legs,  and  brought  again 
one  leg. 

Solution. — That  is,  a  woman  with  two  legs  sate  on  a  atoole 
with  three  legs,  and  had  a  leg  of  mutton  in  her  hand;  then 
came  a  dog  that  hath  foure  lega,  and  bare  away  the  leg  of  mnt- 
ton ;  then  up  start  the  woman,  and  threw  the  stoole  with  three 
legs  at  the  dog  with  foure  legs,  and  brought  again  the  leg  of 
mutton. 

yAe  Second.  Riddle. 

Hb  went  to  the  wood  usi  caught  it, 
He  eote  him  down  and  songht  it ; 

Homo  with  him  he  brought  it. 

Solution. — That  is  a  thorne :  for  a  man  went  to  the  wood 
and  canght  a  thorno  in  his  foote,  and  then  he  sate  him  downe, 
and  sought  to  have  it  pulled  out,  and  because  he  could  not  find 
it  out,  he  must  needs  bring  it  home. 

The  iii.  Riddle. 

What  work  is  that,  the  faster  ye  worke,  the  longer  it  is  ere  ye 
have  done,  and  the  slower  ye  worke,  the  sooner  ye  make  an  ond  ? 

Solution. — That  is  turning  of  a  spit;  for  if  ye  tume  fast,  it 
will  be  long  ere  the  meat  be  rosted,  but  if  ye  turne  slowly,  the 
sooner  it  is  rosted. 

TOe  iv.  Riddle. 

What  is  that  that  shineth  bright  all  day,  and  at  night  is 
raked  up  in  its  own  dirt  ? 

Solnlion.— That  is  tho  fire,  that  burneth  bright  all  the  day, 
and  at  night  is  raked  up  in  his  ashes. 
The  V.  Riddle. 

I  liavo  a  tree  of  great  honour, 

■Which  trea  bearoth  both  fruit  and  flower; 


lyGoogle 


Twelve  branches  ihls  tree  tath  naSe, 
Fifty  [ste]  iiEsts  therein  he  make. 
And  every  nest  hath  hirda  aeavon ; 
Thanked  be  the  King  of  Heaven ; 
And  every  bird  hath  a  divers  name: 
How  may  all  this  together  frame  ? 

Soluiiim. — ^The  tree  is  the  yeare  ;  the  twelve  branches  be  the 
twelve  months;  the  fifty-two  nests  be  the  fifty-two  weekes;  the 
seven  birds  be  the  seven  daja  in  the  weeko,  whereof  every  one 
hath  a  divers  name. 

BISHOP  WILBERFOKCE'S   PUZZLE. 

All  pronounce  me  a  wonderful  piece  of  mechanism,  and  yet 
few  people  have  numbered  the  strange  medley  of  which  I  am 
composed.  I  have  a  large  box  and  two  lids,  two  caps,  two 
musical  instruments,  a  number  of  weathercocks,  three  established 
measures,  some  weapons  of  warfare,  and  a  great  many  little 
articles  that  carpenters  cannot  do  without;  then  I  have  about 
me  a  couple  of  esteemed  fishes,  and  a  great  many  of  a  smaller 
kind;  two  lofty  trees,  and  the  fruit  of  an  indigenous  plant;  a 
handsome  stag,  and  a  great  number  of  a  smaller  kind  of  game; 
two  halls  or  places  of  worship,  two  students  or  rather  scholars, 
the  stairs  of  a  hotel,  and  half  a  score  of  Spanish  gentlemen 
to  attend  on  me.  I  have  what  is  the  terror  of  the  slave,  also 
two  domestic  animals,  and  a  number  of  negatives." 


CUKIOSITIES   OP   CIPHER, 

In  1680,  when  M.  de  Louvoiswas  French  Minister  of  War, 
he  summoned  before  him  one  day,  a  gentleman  named  Cha- 
miily,  and  gave  him  the  following  instructions  ; — 

"Start  ths  evening  for  Basle,  in  Switzerlaud,  which  you  will 
reach  in  three  days;  on  the  fourth,  punctually  at  two  o'clock, 
station  yourself  on  the  bridge  over  the  Ehine,  with  a  portfolioj 


lyClOOglC 


302  PUZZLES. 

ink,  andapen,  Watoh  all  that  takes  p?ace,and  make  amemoran- 
dum  of  every  particular.  Continue  doing  ao  for  two  hours ;  hare 
a  carriage  and  post-horses  await  you;  and  at  four  preeieely, 
mount  and  travel  night  and  day  till  you  reaeh  Paris.  On  the 
instant  of  yeur  arrival,  hasten  to  me  with  your  notes." 

De  Chamilly  obeyed;  he  reaelies  Ba&lp  and  on  the  day  and 
at  the  Lour  appointed,  stations  himself  pen  in  h  n  ]  on  the 
bridge.  Presently  a  market-cart  drives  bj  then  an  old  woman 
with  a  basket  of  fruit  passes;  anon,  a  1  ttle  u  chm  trundles 
his  hoop  by;  next  an  old  gentlemen  in  blue  top  u)at  j  ga  past 
on  his  gray  mare.  Three  o'clock  chimes  f  om  the  cathedral 
tower.  Just  at  the  last  stroke,  a  tail  fell  w  m  yellow  waistc  at 
and  breeches  saunters  up,  goes  to  the  mid  lie  ot  the  briW 
lounges  over,  aad  looks  at  the  water ;  then  he  takes  a  step  ba  k 
and  strikes  three  hearty  blows  on  the  footwiy  with  1 1&  staff 
Down  goes  every  detail  in  De  Chamilly  a  book  At  last  the 
hour  of  release  sounds,  and  he  jumps  into  Lis  carrids^e  Shortly 
before  midnight,  after  two  days  of  ceaseless  travel  ng  De 
Chamilly  presented  himself  before  the  Minister  feeling  rather 
ashamed  at  having  such  trifles  to  record,  M.  de  Louiois  took 
the  portfolio  with  eagerness,  and  glanced  over  the  notes.  As 
his  eye  caught  the  mention  of  the  yellow-breeched  man,  a  gleam 
of  joy  flashed  across  his  countenance.  He  rushed  to  the  king, 
roused  him  from  sleep,  spoke  in  private  with  him  for  a  few 
moments,  and  then  four  couriers,  who  bad  been  held  in  readiness 
since  five  on  the  preceding  evening,  were  dispatched  with  haste. 
Eight  days  after  the  town  of  Strasbourg  was  entirely  surrounded 
by  French  troops,  and  summoned  fo  surrender;  it  capitulated 
and  threw  open  its  gates  on  (he  30th  September,  ItiSl.  Evi- 
dently the  three  strokes  <if  the  stick  given  by  the  fellow  in 
yellow  costume,  at  an  appointed  hour,  were  the  signal  of  the 
success  of  an  intrigue  concerted  between  M.  de  Lonvois  and 
the  magistrates  of  Strasbourg,  and  tbp  man  who  esecuted  this 
mis'fion  was  as  igmirant  of  the  motive  as  was  M.  de  Chamilly 
of  the  motive  of  his  errand. 


lyClOOglC 


PUZZLES,  303 

Now  this  is  a  specimen  of  the  safest  of  all  secret  communi- 
cations; but  it  can  only  be  resorted  to  on  certam  rare  occa^ons. 
"When  a  lengthy  dispatch  is  required  to  be  forwarded,  and  when 
such  means  as  those  given  above  are  out  of  the  question,  aome 
other  methi>d  must  be  employed.  Herodotus  gives  na  a  stoiy 
to  the  point;  it  is  found  also,  with  yariationa,  in  Aulus 
GeDiuai— 

"  Histiseus,  when  he  was  ansions  to  ^ve  Aristagoras  ordera 
to  revolt,  could  find  but  one  safe  way,  as  the  roads  were  guarded, 
of  making  his  wishes  known ;  which  was  by  taking  the  trustiest 
of  his  slaves,  rfiaving  all  the  hair  from  off  his  head,  and  then 
pricking  letters  upon  the  skin,  and  waiting  till  the  hair  grew 
again.  This  accoi-dingly  he  did ;  and  as  soon  as  ever  the  hair 
was  grown,  he  dispatched  the  man  to  Miletus,  ^ving  him  no 
other  mi-ssage  than  this .  '  When  thou  ait  come  to  Miletus,  hid 
Aristagoraa  ahave  thy  head,  and  look  thereon.'  Now  the  marks 
on  tte  head  were  a  command  to  revolt." — (Bk.  V,  35.) 

Is  this  case  no  cipher  was  employed.  We  shall  come  now  ta 
the  nse  of  ciphers. 

When  a  dispatch  or  communication  runs  great  risk  of  falling 
into  the  hands  of  the  enemy,  it  is  necetJ*ary  that  its  contents 
should  be  so  veiled  that  the  possession  of  the  document  may 
afford  him  no  information  whatever.  Julius  Csesar  and  Augustus 
used  ciphers,  but  they  were  of  the  utmost  simplicity,  as  they 
consisted  merely  in  plaiing  D  in  the  place  of  A ;  E  in  that  of 
B  and  so  on;  or  else  in  writing  B  for  A,  and  0  for  B,  &c. 

Secret  characters  were  used  at  the  Council  of  Nic»a;  and 
Kabanns  Maurus,  Abbot  of  Fulda  and  Archbishop  of  IMayence, 
in  the  Ninth  Century,  has  left  us  an  example  of  two  ciphers,  the 
key  to  which  was  discovered  by  the  Benedictines.  It  is  only  a 
wonder  that  any  one  could  have  failed  to  unravel  them  at  the 
first  glance.     This  is  a  specimen  of  the  first: — 


.Ne.p.tv 


nf:c.. 


rch.gl;: 


lyClOOglC 


304  PUZZLES. 

The  clue  to  this  is  the  suppression  of  the  vowels  and  the 
filling  of  their  places  by  dots — one  for  i,  two  for  a,  three  for  e, 
four  for  o,  and  five  for  a.  In  the  second  example,  the  same 
sentence  would  run — Knctpkt  vfrsxa  Bpnkf  bckk,  &e.,  the  vowel 
places  being  filled  hy  the  consonants — b,  f,  k,  p,  x.  By  chang- 
ing every  letter  in  the  alpbahet,  we  make  a  vast  improvement 
on  this  last ;  thus,  for  instance,  supplying  the  place  of  a  with  z, 
h  with  X,  c  with  V,  and  so  on.  This  is  the  very  system  employed 
by  au  advertiser  in  a  provincial  paper,  which  we  took  up  the 
otbor  day  in  the  waiting-room  of  a  station,  where  it  had  been 
left  by  a  former.  As  we  had  some  minut«s  to  spare,  befere  the 
train  was  due,  we  spent  them  in  decipheriEg  the  following: — 

Jp  Sjddjzbrza  radd  ci  sijmr.  Bziw  rzdd  xmdnt,  and  in  ten 
minutes  we  read:  "If  William  can  call  or  write,  Mary  will  be 
glad." 

When  the  Chevalier  de  Rohan  was  in  the  Bastile  his  frieada 
wanted  to  convey  to  him  the  intelligence  that  his  accomplice 
was  dead  without  having  confessed.  They  did  so  by  passing 
the  following  words  into  his  dungeon  written  on  a  shirt;  "Mg 
dulhseeelgu  ghj  ysuj ;  Im  ct  ulge  alj."  In  vain  did  he  puzzle 
over  the  cipher,  to  whiih  he  had  not  the  clue  It  was  too 
short;  for  the  shorter  a  lipher  letter,  the  moie  difEcult  it  is  to 
make  out.  The  light  faded,  and  he  tossed  on  his  hard  bed, 
sleeplessly  revolving  the  mystic  letters  in  his  brain;  hut  he 
could  mate  nothing  out  of  them  Day  dawned,  and  with  its 
first  gleam  he  was  poiing  over  them;  still  in  vain.  He  pleaded 
guilty,  for  he  could  not  decipher  "Le  prisonnier  est  mart;  il 
n'a  rien  dtt." 

A  curious  instance  of  cipher  occured  at  the  close  of  the 
eisteenth  centuiy,  when  the  Spaniards  were  endeavoring  to 
establish  relations  between  the  scattered  branches  of  their  vast 
monarchy,  which  at  that  period  embraced  a  large  portion  of 
Italy,  the  Low  Countries,  the  Philippines,  and  enormous  districts 
in  the  New  World.  Thej  accordingly  invented  a  cipher,  which 
they  varied  from  time  to  time,  in  order  to  disconcert  those  who 


lyClOOglC 


PUZZLES.  305 

might  attempt  to  pry  into  the  mysteries  of  their  correspondence. 
The  cipher,  composed  of  fifty  signs,  was  of  great  value  to  them 
throngh  dl  the  troubles  of  the  "Ligue,"  and  the  wars  then 
desolating  Europe.  Some  of  their  dispatches  having  been  in- 
tercepted, Henry  IV.  handed  them ,  over  to  a  elever  mathe- 
matician, Viete,  with  the  request  that  he  would  find  the  oluo. 
He  did  so,  and  was  able  also  to  follow  it  as  it  varied,  and 
France  profited  for  two  years  by  his  discovery.  The  Court  of 
Spain,  disconcerted  at  this,  accused  Viete  before  the  Eomaa 
Court  as  a  sorcerer  and  in  league  with  the  devil.  This  proceed- 
ing only  gave  rise  to  laughter  and  ridicule. 


A  still  more  remarkable  instance  is  that  of  a  German  j 
sor,  Herman,  who  boasted,  in  1752,  that  ho  had  d 
cryptograph  absolutely  incapable  of  being  deciphered  without 
the  clue  being  given  by  himj  and  he  defied  all  the  savants  and 
learned  societies  of  Europe  to  discover  the  key.  However,  a 
French  refiigee,  named  Beguelin,  managed  after  eight  days' 
study  to  read  it.  The  cipher — though  we  have  the  rules  upon 
which  it  is  formed  before  na — is  to  us  perfectly  unintelli^ble^ 
It  is  grounded  on  some  changes  of  numbers  and  symbols; 
the  numbers  vary,  being  at  one  time  multiplied,  at  another 
added,  and  become  so  complicated  that  the  letter  e,  which 
occurs  nine  times  in  the  paragraph,  is  represented  in  eight 
different  ways;  ra  is  used  eight  times,  and  has  seven  various 
s^ns.  Indeed,  the  same  letter  is  scarcely  ever  represented 
by  the  same  figure.  But  this  is  not  all ;  the  character  which 
appears  in  the  place  of  i  takes  that  of  w  shortly  after;  another 
symbol  for  n  stands  also  for  t.  How  any  man  could  have 
solved  the  mysteiy  of  this  cipher  is  astonishiog. 

All  these  cryptographs  consist  in  the  eschango  of  numbers 
of  characters  for  the  real  letters ;  but  there  are  other  methods 
quite  as  intricate,  which  dispense  with  them. 

The  mysterious  cards  of  the  Count  de  Vergennes  are  an 
instance.      De  Vergennes  was   Minister   of    Foreign   Afiairs 


lyGoogle 


306  PUZZLES. 

under  Louis  XVI.,  and  he  made  use  of  carda  of  a  peculiar 
nature  in  his  relations  witli  the  diplomatic  agents  of  Eranee. 
These  cards  were  used  in  letters  of  recommendatioa  or  pass- 
ports, which  were  ^vea  to  strangers  about  to  enter  France; 
they  were  intended  to  furnish  information  without  the 
knowledge  of  the  hearers.  This  waa  the  system.  The  card 
given  to  a  man  contained  only  a  few  words,  such  as : — 

ALPHONSB  D'ANGEHA, 

Becommanda  a.  Monsieur 

le  Comte  de  Vergcnnes,  par  le  Marquia  de  Pujacgur,  Ambassadenr 

de  Franae  a  la  Cour  de  Liaboane. 

The  card  told  more  tales  than  the  words  written  on  it.  Its 
color  indicated  the  nation  of  the  strainer.  Yellow  showed 
him  to  he  English;  red,  Spanish;  white,  Portuguese;  green, 
Dutch;  red  and  white,  Italian;  red  and  green,  Swiss;  green 
and  white,  Russian;  &c.  The  person's  age  was  expressed  by 
the  shape  of  the  card.  If  it  were  circular,  he  waa  under 
25;  oval,  between  25  and  SO;  octagonal,  between  30  and  45; 
hexagonal,  between  45  and  50 ;  square,  between  50  and  60 ; 
an  oblong  showed  that  he  was  over  60.  Two  Imes  placed 
below  the  name  of  the  beai-cr  indicated  his  build.  If  he  wei-e 
fall  and  lean,  the  lines  were  waving  and  parallel ;  tall  and  stout, 
thej  converged;  and  so  on.  The  espression  of  his  face  was 
shown  by  a  flower  in  the  border.  A  rose  designated  an  open 
and  ami^le  countenance,  whilst  a  tulip  marked  a  pensive  and 
aristocratic  appearance.  A  fillet  round  the  boi-der,  according 
to  its  length,  told  whether  he  were  bachelor,  maiTied,  or 
widower.  Dots  gave  mformation  as  to  hia  position  and  fortune. 
A  full  stop  after  his  name  showed  that  he  was  a  Catholic ;  a 
semicolon,  that  he  was  a  Lutheran ;  a  comma,  that  he  was  a 
Calvinist ;  a  dash,  that  he  was  a  Jew ;  no  stop  indicated  him  an 
Atheist.  8o  also  his  morals  and  character  were  pointed  out  by 
a  pattern  in  the  card.  So,  at  one  glance  the  Minister  could 
tell  all  about  his  man,  whether  he  were  a  gamester  or  a  duelist; 
■,what  was  his  purpose  in  vi^ting  France;  whether  in  search 


lyClOOglC 


of  a  wife  or  to  claim  a  legacy  what  was  hia  piofe'sion — 
thdt  of  physician  lawypr  r  mjn  of  letters  whether  he 
were  to  be  put  uadcr  ^uiveilknL*  or  allowed  to  go  his  wi^ 
unm  Icsted 

We  come  now  to  a  class  of  cipher  which  requires  a  certain 
amount  of  literary  dexterity  to  coaoeal  the  clue. 

During  the  Great  Rebellion,  Sir  John  Treyauion,  a  dis- 
tinguished cavalier,  was  made  prisoaer,  aud  looked  up  in 
Colchester  Castle,  Sir  Charles  Lucas  and  Sir  George  lisle  had 
just  been  made  esamplea  of,  as  a  warning  to  "  malignants :" 
a,nd  Trevanioa  had  every  reason  for  espccting  a  similar  bloody 
end.  As  he  awaits  his  doom,  indulging  in  a  hearty  curse 
in  round  eavalier  terms  at  the  canting,  crop-eared  scoundrels 
who  hold  him  in  durance  vile,  and  muttering  a  wish  that  he 
had  Men,  sword  in  hand,  facing  the  foe,  he  is  startled  by  the 
entrance  of  the  jailor,  who  hands  him  a  letter : 

"  May't  do  thee  good,"  growls  the  fellow ;  "  it  has  been  well 
looked  to  before  it  was  permitted  to  come  to  thee." 

Sir  John  takes  the  letter,  and  the  jailor  leaves  him  his  lamp 
by  which  to  read  it : — 

WoHTHiE  Sir  John:— Hope,  ttat  is  ye  best  oomport  of  yc  affliatyd, 
cannot  iimo]i,  I  fear  me,  help  you  DOW,  Jhut  I  wolde  saye  to  you,  ia  this 
onljMfe-  


asking  of  me,     'Tia  not  much  I  oan  d 

0 ;  but  what  I  can  do,  bee  verie  sure 

I  wille.     I  knowe  that,  if  dethe  eome 

,  if  ordinary  men  fear  it,  it  fraghtg 

not  yon,  aoooonting  it  Cor  a  high  hon 

oar,  to  have  auoh  a  rewards  of  jonr 

loyalty.     Pray  yet  that  you  may  'be 

spared  this  aoe  bitter,  eup.     I  fear 

not  that  you  wUl  grudge  any  euffe 

can  turn  them  anay,  'tis  the  part  of 

Wiseman.     Tell  me,  an  if  you  Ciin, 

to  do  for  you  any  thinge  that  you  w 

uld  hare  done.     The  general  i^oea 

back  on  Wedneaday.     Reslinge  your 

Now  this  letter  was  written  according  to  a  preconcerted 
cipher.  Every  third  letter  after  a  stop  was  to  tell.  In  this 
way  Sir  John  made  out — "Panel  at  east  end  of  chapel  slides." 
On  the  foDowing  even,  the  prisoner  begged  to  be  allowed  to 
pass  an  hour  of  private  devotion  in  the  chapel,     By  means  of 


lyClOOglC 


a  bribe,  tWs  was  accomplished.     Before  the  hour  had  expireiJ, 
the  chapel  was  empty — the  bird  had  flown. 

An  excellent  plan  of  indicating  the  telling  letter  or  words  is 
through  the  heading  of  the  letter.  "  Sir,"  would  signify  that 
every  third  letter  was  to  be  taken;  "Dear  Sir,"  that  every 
scfeathj  "My  dear  air,"  that  every  ninth  was  to  be  selected. 
A  aystem,  very  early  adopted,  was  that  of  having  pierced  cards, 
through  the  hoiea  of  which  the  conmiunication  was  written. 
The  card  was  then  removed,  and  the  blank  spaces  filled  up.    As 

My  nEAii  X.— [The]  lines  I  now  send  you  are  fntnarded  by  tlie  kind- 
Doss  of  the  [Bearer],  who  is  a  friend.  [la  not]  the  message  fleliverod  yet 
[to]  mj  brother?  [Be]  quick  nbont  il,  for  I  have  nil  along  [trusted]  tliat 
you  Tfould  act  with  diaeretion  and  dispatch,         Youre  ever,  Z, 

Put  your  card  over  the  note,  and  through  the  piercings  you 
will  read :     "  The  Bearer  is  not  to  be  trusted." 

Poo,  in  his  stoiy  of  "The  Gold  Bug,"  gives  some  valuable 
hints  on  the  intei-pretatioa  of  the  most  common  cryptographs. 
He  contends  that  the  ingeciiity  of  man  can  coiiatnict  no  enigma 
which  the  ingenuity  of  man  cannot  unravel.  And  he  actually 
read  several  very  difficult  ciphers  which  were  sent  to  him  after 
the  publication  of  "The  Gold  Bug." 

But  we  aaw,  several  years  ago,  a  method  which  makes  the 
message  absolutely  safe  from  detection.  We  will  try  to  de- 
scribe it 

Take  a  scjuare  sheet  of  paper  of  convpnipnt  size,  aay  a  foot 
square.  Divide  it  by  lines  drawn  at  right  angles  into  five 
hundred  and  seventy-six  squares,  twenty-sis  each  way;  in  the 
upper  horizontal  row  write  the  alphabet  in,  its  natural  order,  one 
letter  in  each  square;  in  the  second  horizontal  row  write  the 
alphabet,  beginning  with  B.  There  will  then  be  one  square 
loft  at  the  end  of  this  row;  into  this  put  A.  Fill  the  third  row 
by  beginning  with  C,  and  writing  A  and  B  after  Z  at  the  end. 
So  on  until  the  whole  sheet  is  filled.  When  completed,  the 
table,  if  correct,  will  present  this  appearance.     In  the  upper 


lyGoogle 


horizontal  row,  tho  alphabet  in  its  natural  order  from  left  to 
right)  iu  the  left-hand  vortical  row,  the  ^ame  trim  tojit  bottom 
and  the  diagonal,  from  upper  right  to  lower  left  hind  winci 
wilfbealineof  Z's. 

Bach  party  must  have  one  of  the  tables  A  keywor  1  mast  ht 
agi'eed  upon,  which  may  be  any  word  m  the  English  laigud^c 
or  from  any  other  language  if  it  can  be  lejrestnted  by  Enjish 
letters,  or,  indeed,  it  may  even  be  a  (.ombiuiti  n  ot  letters 
which  spells  nothing. 

Now,  to  send  a  message,  first  wr  te  the  me^saoe  m  pi  nn 
English,  Over  it  write  the  key-word  letter  over  letter  repeat 
ing  it  as  many  times  aa  it  is  necessary  to  lovei  the  message  Take 
a  simple  case  as  an  illustration.  Supj;  f^e  the  key  word  to  be 
Grant,  and  the  message  We  ham  Jiie  dty-,  jiiovi^tois  It 
should  be  placed  thus: — 

G-rantgrantgrantgrantgran 
Wehavefivedaysprovisions 

Now  find,  in  the  upper  horizontal  row  of  the  table,  the  first 
letter  of  the  key-word,  G,  and  in  the  lefi-haud  vertical  column, 
the  first  letter  of  the  m^sage,  "W.  Run  a  line  straight  down 
from  G,  and  one  to  the  right  fi^m  W,  and  in  the  angle  where 
the  two  lines  meet  will  bo  found  the  letter  which  must  be 
written  as  the  first  letter  of  the  cipher.  With  the  second  letter 
of  the  key-word,  R,  and  the  second  letter  of  the  message,  E, 
find  in  the  same  way  the  second  letter  of  the  cipher. 

The  corr^pondeut  who  receives  the  cipher  goes  to  work  to 
tj^nslate  it  thus  :^He  first  writes  over  it  the  key-word,  letter 
over  letter,  repeating  it  as  often  as  necessary.  Then  findmg  in 
the  upper  row  of  his  table  the  first  letter  of  tho  key-word,  he 
passes  bis  pencil  directly  down  until  he  comes  to  the  first  letter 
or  tho  cipher;  the  letter  opposite  to  it  in  the  left  vertical  column 
ia  the  first  letter  of  tho  translation.  Each  of  the  succeeding 
letters  is  found  in  a  similar  way. 

A  third  party,  into  whose  hands  such  a  cipher  might  fall. 


lyClOOglC 


310     .  THE  REASON    WHY. 

could  not  read  it,  though  he  possessed  a  copy  of  the  table  and 
knew  how  to  use  it,  unless  he  knew  tlic  key-word.  The  chance 
of  his  guessing  this  is  only  one  in  millions.  And  there  is  no 
such  thing  as  interpreting  it  by  any  other  mettod,  because  there 
are  no  repetitions,  and  heoce  sJI  comparison  ia  at  fault.  That  is 
to  say,  in  the  same  cipher,  in  one  plac«_a  letter,  as  for  instance 
C  may  stand  for  one  letter  in  the  translation,  and  in  another 
place  C  may  stand  for  quite  a  different  letter.  This  is  the  only 
kind  of  cryptograph  we  have  ever  seen  which  is  absolutely  safe. 


E\it  Iteason  aHiig. 


The  reason  why  the  most  learned  people  on  earth  eat  sauer- 
kraut may  be  found  in  the  following  extract  from  a  work  entitled 
Petri  Andram  MattMoU  Senensis  Tnedici  cammentarii  in  sex 
lihros  Pedacii  Dioscoridis  de  MaferiA  Medica.  Tmetiis.  ex 
ujicina  Valffridana  MDLXV.  Traduit  de  Latin  en.  I^ancaia, 
pwr  M.  Anttme  du  Pinet.  L^on,  MDCLV.  Preface,  p.  13. 
ligne  30;  "Finally,  in  order  to  omit  nothing  which  can  add  to 
the  knowledge  of  simples,  it  must  bo  noted  that  Nature,  mother 
and  producer  of  all  things,  has  created  various  simples,  which 
have  a  sympathy  or  natural  antipathy  to  each  other;  which  ia 
a  very  considerable  point  in  this  matter,  and  has  no  like  as  a 
mystery  and  secret.  And  thus  it  has  seemed  to  me  good  to 
hint  a  word  about  it,  and  principally  of  those  which  are  used  in 
medicine.  To  commence,  then,  with  the  oat  and  the  olive; 
these  two  trees  hate  each  other  in  such  sort  that,  if  yoa  plant 
one  in  the  hole  from  which  the  other  was  dug,  it  will  die  there; 
and,  even  if  you  plant  one  near  the  other,  they  will  work  each 
other's  death.  The  cabbage  and  the  viae  do  the  like ;  for  it 
has  been  seen  that,  if  you  plant  a  cabbage  at  the  foot  of  a  vine, 


lyGOOglC 


:y-  311 

the  viae  will  recoil  and  draw  itself  away.  And  thus  it  is  uo 
maryel  that  the  cabbage  is  very  useful  to  sober  topers,  and  that 
the  Germaaa  eat  it  commonly  in  a  eompoal  to  safeguard  them- 
selves from  their  wine." 

WHY    PENNSYLVANIA   WAS   SETTLED. 

Peon  rerused  to  pull  liis  hat  off 
Befora  tlie  king,  and  tharafora  sat  off. 
Another  country  to  light  pat  on, 
Whera  he  might  worship  with  his  hat  on. 


They  were  so  called  because  their  first  places  of  meeting  ii 
the  city  of  Tours  (where  Calvin's  opinions  first  prevailed)  wen 
cellars  under-ground,  near  Hugo's  Gate  [Heb.  XI,  38],  whenci 
the  vulgar  applied  this  name  to  them. 


J   DEMISE. 


How  monarofas  die  ia  easily  eiplained. 

And  thus  upon  the  tomb  it  might  bo  oiiiael'd  ,■ 
As  long  OS  George  the  Fourth  oonid  reign,  ha  reigned. 


In  the  seventh  century  a  Roman  Ca.thoHc  monk  by  the  name 
of  Botolph,  or  Bot^holp,  viz.,  Boa^help,  founded  a  church  in 
what  ia  now  Lincolnahire,  England.  Gradually  a  town  grew 
up  around  the  church,  and  was  called  Botolphstown,  which  was 
afterward  contracted  iato  Botolphston,  and  then  shortened  to 
Botoston,  and  finally  to  Boston.  From  that  town  of  Boston  in 
Lincolnshire  came  to  America  the  Rev.  John  Cotton,  who  gave 
the  name  to  the  New  England  Capital.  So  that  the  metropolis 
of  good  old  Puritan  Massachusetts  was,  it  seems,  named  in 
honor  of  a  Roman  Catholic  smt  and  monk! 


lyGoogle 


WEATHERCOCKS. 

The  vane  or  weathercock  must  have  been  of  very  early  origin, 
Vitniyius  calls  it  trifon,  evidently  from  an  ancient  form.  The 
usual  form  on  towers  and  castles  was  that  of  a  banner;  but  on 
ecclesiastical  edifices,  it  generally  was  a  weathereock.  There 
was  a  symbolical  reason  for  tlie  adoption  of  the  figure  of  a  cock. 
The  cross  was  surmounted  by  a  ball,  to  symbolize  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  world  by  the  cross  of  Christ;  and  the  cock  was 
placed  upon  the  cross  in  allusion  to  tie  repentance  of  St.  Peter, 
and  to  remind  ua  of  the  important  duties  of  repentance  and 
Ghrifitiaa  vigilance.  Apart  from  symbolism,  the  large  tail  of 
the  cock  is  well  adapted  to  turn  with  the  wind,  just  as  is  the  ar- 
row which  ifi  so  frequently  chosen. 

CUTTING  OFF   WITH  A   SHILLING. 

According  to  Blackstone  (ii.  32),  the  Romans  were  wont  to 
set  aside  testaments  as  being  iwjiciosa,  deficient  in  natural  duty, 
■  if  they  disinherited  or  totally  passed  by  (without  assigning  a 
true  and  suf&oient  reason)  any  of  the  children  of  the  testator. 
But  if  the  child  had  any  legnay,  though  ever  so  small  it  was  a 
proof  that  the  testator  had  not  lost  his  memory  or  his  reason 
which  otherwise  the  law  presumed ;  but  was  then  supposed  (o 
have  acted  thus  for  some  substantial  cause,  and  in  such  case  no 
ferula  ino^ciosi  testamenti  was  allowed.  Hence,  probably,  has 
arisen  that  groundless  error  of  tte  necessity  of  leaving  the  heir 
a  shilling,  or  some  ,such  express  legacy,  in  order  to  disinherit 
him  effectually.  Whereas  the  law  of  England  makes  no  such 
constrained  suppositions  of  foi^tfiiluess  or  insanity;  and,  there- 
fore, though  the  heir  or  next  of  kin  be  totally  omitted,  it  admits 
no  querala  inofficiod  to  set  aside  such  a  testament. 
cardinal's  red  hat. 
The  red  hat  was  given  to  cardinals  by  Pope  Innocent  IV,,  in 
the  first  Council  of  Lyons,  held  in  1245,  to  signiiy  that  by  that 
color  they  should  be  always  ready  to  shed  their  blood  in  defence 
of  the  church. 


lyGoogle 


THE  REASON    WHY 

THE  ROAST   BEEF  OF   ENGLAND. 

Brave  liiitty  was  a  maiden  Queen, 

Bold  a"d  clever  1  bold  and  clever! 
King  Philip,  then  a  Spaniard  King, 

Qneen  Bess  she  frowned  and  stroked  hor  rul 
And  gave  the  migMy  Don  a  huff; 
For  which  he  snore  her  ears  he'd  ouff. 

All  with  hie  grand  Armada. 
SajB  RojalBeea,  "I'll  vengeance  takel" 

Blessings  on  her!  blessings  on  her  I 
"But  first  I'il  eat  a  nioa  beefsteak. 

All  with  my  maids  of  honor." 
Then  to  her  admirals  she  went, 
Drake,  Effingham,  and  Howard  sent. 


Whoi 


lent. 


Ind  banged  his  grand  Armada- 
A  SENSIBLE   QUACK. 

An  empiric  was  asked  by  a  regular  physician  how  it  was 
that,  without  education  or  sltill,  he  cootrived  to  live  in  con- 
sideraiile  style,  while  he  could  hardly  subsist.  "Why"  said 
the  other,  "how  many  people  do  you  think  have  passed  us 
lately?"  "Perhaps  a  hundred."  "And  how  many  of  them  do 
you  think  possess  common  sense?"  "Possibly  one."  "Why, 
then,"  said  the  quack,  "  tbat  one  goes  to  you,  and  I  get  the 
other  ninety-nine." 

GENEALOGY. 

The  dof^erel  couplet  repeated  in  varied  forms  but  usually 
presented  in  this  shape — 

When  Adani  delved  and  Eve  apan. 
Who  was  then  the  gentleman  ? 

is  a  translation  of  the  Grerman 

Da  Adam  backt  und  Eva  spann. 
Wet  war  damals  der  Bdelmaon? 

which  is  fiirther  referred  to  a  wag  who  had  written  the  couplet 
on  a  wall  near  tn  which  the  Bmpcror  Maximilian  was  tracing 


lyClOOglC 


his  pedigree;  upon  which  the  Emperor  wrote  the  following 
impromptu: — 

loh  bin  ein  Mann  wie  ein  ander  Mann, 
Nur  dasS  mir  Oott  die  Bhre  gann, 
(I  am  a  man  like  another  man,  only  that  God  gave  honor  to  me, ) 

A  juggler's  mystery. 

The  French  Government,  which  formerly  sent  dancing-girls 
and  comic  actors  to  cheer  up  ifa  soldiers  when  they  were 
ordered  away  from  the  dancing-saloons  and  theatres,  so  common 
throughout  France,  engaged  Mr.  Robert  Houdin  to  go  fo 
Algeria  and  exhibit  his  best  feata  of  legerdemain  before  the 
oatives,  to  shake  the  escessiTe  influence  exerted  by  the  mara- 
bouts or  priests,  whose  power  seems  to  bo  established  solely  on 
ti-oir  adroit  jugglery.  The  marabouts  were  not  disposed  to 
yield  to  the  new-comer's  powers  without  a  stru^Ie,  and  pressed 
him  as  hard  as  they  could.  M.  Houdm  was  successful,  but  his 
victory  was  not  altogether  easy,  as  he  tells  in  the  foUowiug 
narrative ; — 

The  marabout  said  to  me:  "I  believe  now  in  your  super- 
natural power.  Yoa  are  really  a  sorcerer.  I  hope,  therefore, 
you  will  not  refuse  to  repeat  here  an  exhibition  of  your  powcra 
made  on  your  stage,"  He  gave  mo  two  pistols,  which  he  had 
eonccaled  under  his  bournous,  and  said:  "Choose  one  of  those 
pistols;  we  are  going  to  load  it,  and  I  shall  fire  it  at  you.  Yoa 
have  nothing  to  fear,  since  you  know  how  to  pany  any  bullet." 
I  confess  I  was  for  a  moment  dumb  with  embarrassment.  I 
tried  my  best  to  think  of  some  subterfuge,  but  I  could  think 
of  nothing.  Every  eye  was  fixed  on  me,  in  expectation  of  my 
reply.     The  marabout  was  triumphant. 

Bon  Allem,  who  knew  that  my  tricks  were  due  solely  to  my 
adroitness,  became  angry  that  his  guests  should  be  annoyed  in 
this  barbarous  way,  and  ho  scolded  the  marabout.  I  stopped 
him.  An  idea  had  struck  me  which  would  at  least  extricate 
me  fiir  the  moment  from  my  embarrassment.  So  I  said  to  the 
marabout,  speaking  with  ail  the  assurance  I  could  s 


lyClOOglC 


THE  REASON   WHY.  315 

"Tou  know  that  I  am  not  invulnerable  unless  I  have  a  talisman 
on  me.  "Unfortunately,  I  have  left  it  at  .Algiers."  The  mara- 
bout began  to  laugh  incredulously.  "  NeverthelK«,"  I  went  on 
to  say,  "if  I  remain  in  prayer  for  ax  hours,  I  shall  he  able  to 
mate  myself  invulnerable  to  your  pistol,  even  though  I  have 
no  talisman.  To-morrow  moralDg,  at  eleven  o'clock,  I  shall  let 
jou  fire  at  me  before  all  these  Arabs,  who  are  witnesses  of  your 
challenge."  Bou  AUem,  astonished  to  hoar  me  make  suoh 
,  came  up  and  asked  me  in  a  low  tone  if  I  was 
g  seriously,  and  if  he  should  invite  the  Arabs  to  come 
the  nest  day.  I  told  him  I  was.  I  need  not  say  I  did  not 
spend  the  night  in  prayers,  but  I  worked  for  two  hours  to  make 
myself  invulnerable,  and  then  satisfied  with  my  success,  I  went 
to  sleep  with  a  great  deal  of  pleasure,  for  I  was  horribly  tired. 
We  breakfasted  before  eight  o'clock^the  next  morning;  our 
horses  were  saddled,  and  our  escort  was  waiting  the  signal  of 
departure,  which  was  to  take  place  immediately  after  the  famous 
experiment.  The  same  persons  who  wore  present  at  the  chal- 
lenge the  day  before,  were  at  the  rendezvous,  and  a  great  many 
other  Arabs  who  had  heard  of  what  was  to  take  place,  had  come 
to  witness  it. 

The  pistols  were  brought.  I  made  them  observe  the  touch- 
hole  was  clear.  The  marabout  put  a  good  load  of  powder  in 
the  pistol  and  rammed  it  down  well.  I  chose  a  hall  from  among 
the  balls  brought,  I  ostensibly  put  it  in  the  pistol  and  rammed 
it  thoroughly.  The  marabout  kept  a  good  eye  on  me :  his  honor 
was  at  stake.     The  second  pistol  was  loaded  as  the  first  had 


m,  md  n( 
■  evew>od 


for  eve^ody.  For  the  Arabs  around,  uncertain  how  the  ex- 
periment would  end;  for  my  wife,  who  had  in  vain  be^cd  me 
not  to  try  the  experiment  which  she  was  afi'wd  of— and- 1 
confess  it,  trying  for  me,  as  my  new  trick  was  based,  on  none  of 
the  expedients  I  had  hitherto  used,  and  I  was  afraid  of  some 
mistake,  some  treachery,  some  accident.  Nevertheless,  I  stood 
fifteen  paces  in  front  of  the  marabout,  without  exhibiting  the 


lyClOOglC 


Olb  THE  REASON   WHY, 

least  emotion.  The  marahout  instantly  took  up  one  of  the 
pistols,  iind  at  the  given  signal  he  aimed  deliberately  at  me. 
He  flred.  I  caught  the  hall  in  my  teeth.  More  irritated  than 
ever,  the  marabout  ran  to  snat*h  up  the  other  pistol;  I  was 
quickest  and  I  seized  it.  "  You  failed  to  draw  blood  from  me," 
said  I  to  him;  "now  look,  I  am  going  to  draw  blood  from  that 
wall  yonder."  I  fired  at  a  wall  which  had  just  been  white- 
washed ;  instantly  a  large  dot  of  blood  was  seen  on  it.  Tho 
marabout  went  up  to  it,  put  a  finger  on  it,  tasted  it,  ajid  satisfied 
himself  it  was  really  blood.  His  arms  fell  down  at  his  side,  he 
hung  his  head,  he  was  overcome.  It  was  evident  he  doubted 
now  of  everything,  even  of  the  Prophet.  The  Arabs  raised  their 
hands  to  Heaven,  muttered  prayers,  and  looked  at  me  with 
dread. 

This  trick,  however  ctirioua  it  may  seem,  is  managed  easily 
enough.  I  shall  describe  it.  As  soon  as  I  was  alone  in  my 
chamber,  I  took  out  of  my  pistol-case  (which  I  carry  with  me 
wherever  I  go)  a  ball-mould.  I  took  a  card,  turned  up  its 
corners  and  made  a  sort  of  recipient  of  it,  in  which  I  placed 
a  lump  of  stearine,  taken  from  one  of  tho  candles  in  the  room. 
As  soon  as  the  ateariae  was  melted,  I  mixed  a  little  lamp-black 
with  it — which  I  obtained  by  holding  a  knife  over  a  lighted 
candle— and  then  I  poured  this  composition  into  my  ball-mowld. 
If  I  had  allowed  the  liquid  stearine  to  become  entirely  cold, 
the  ball  would  have  been  solid;  but  after  fen  or  twelve  seconds 
I  reversed  the  mould,  and  the  portion  of  the  stearine  which  was 
not  yet  solid  flowed  out  and  left  a  hollow  ball  in  the  mould. 
This,  by  the  way,  is  the  mode  in  which  the  hollow  candjes  used 
in  the  churches  are  made;  the  thickness  of  the  sides  depends 
"n  the  time  the  melted  stearine  or  wax  is  left  in  the  mould.     " 


wanted  a 


a  little  thicker  than  the  first. 


I  filled  it  with  blood,  and  I  closed  the  aperture  with  a  drop  of 
stearine.  An  Irishman  had  showed  me  years  before,  how  to 
extraet  blood  from  the  thumb  without  pain :  I  adopted  his  trick 
to  fill  my  ball  with  blood.  It  is  hard  to  believe  how  nearly  these 


lyClOOglC 


317 

projeetiks  of  stemne,  colored  with  lamp-black,  look  like  lead: 
they  will  deceive  anybody,  even  when  examined  quite  closely. 
The  reader  now  clearly  sees  through  the  trick.  While  exhibiting 
the  lead  bullet  to  the  apectators,  I  changed  it  for  my  hoUow  hall, 
and  this  l^t  I  oatenBibly  placed  in  the  pistol.  I  rammed  it 
down,  to  break  the  stearine  into  small  piec^,  which  could  not 
reach  me  at  fifteen  paces.  As  Boon  as  the  pistol  was  dischaj^ed, 
I  opened  my  mouth  and  exhibited  the  lead  ball  between  my 
teeth.  The  second  pistol  contained  the  ball  filled  with  blood, 
which  was  broken  to  pieces  on  the  wall,  where  it  left  the  spot 
of  blood,  while  tlie  pieces  of  stearine  could  no  where  b 
This  ia  the  whole  mystery. 


e  found. 


aaaeatfiEr^fflSaistrom. 


RHYMING   CALENDAR. 


JanaftTj  snowy, 

Juty  moppy, 

Eebruarj  flowy. 

August  croppy. 

March  tlowy. 

September  poppy. 

October  breeiy, 

NoFcmber  wheeij 

June  bowery, 

December  freeiy. 

SIE  HUMPHRY   DAVY   ON    WEATHER-OMENS, 
In  hia  shepliard's  oiillmg  ho  waa  prompt. 
And  watchful  more  than  ordinary  men. 
MencB  bad  bo  learned  the  meaning  of  all  winds. 
Of  blasts  of  otery  tone]  and  oftentimes. 
When  others  heeded  not,  ho  heard  the  South 
Make  subterraneous  musia,  like  the  noise 
Of  bagpipes  upon  distant  Highland  hills. 

The  late  Sir  Humphry  Davy,  one  of  the  most  successful 
modem  explorers  of  the  secrets  of  nature,  was  not  above  at- 
tending to,  and  explaining,  the  "weather-omens"  which  are 
derived  from  popular  observation. 

In  his  Salmonia  he  has  the  following  dialogue  between 
Haliens,  (a  fly-fisher,)  Poietes,  (a  poet,)  Physicus,  (a  man  of 
science,)  and  Oniither,  (a  sportsman)  : — 
279 


lyClOOglC 


318  WKATHER. 

Poiet.—l  tiopo  WO  shall  tave  acofiter  good  day  to-morrow, 
for  the  clouds  are  red  in  the  west. 

P%s. — I  have  no  doubt  of  it,  for  the  red  has  a  tint  of  purple. 

Hal.— 1)0  you  know  why  this  tint  portends  fine  weather? 

P%s.— The  air,  when  dry,  I  believe,  refracts  more  red,  or 
heat-making  rays;  and  as  dry  air  ig  not  perfectly  transparent, 
tljey  ate  again  refracted  in  the  horizon.  1  have  generally  oh- 
served  a  coppery  or  yellow  sunset  to  foretell  rain  ;  but  as  an  in- 
dication of  wet  weather  approaching,  nothing  is  more  certain 
than  a  halo  round  the  moon,  which  ia  produced  by  precipitated 
water;  and  the  larger  the  circle,  the  nearer  the  clouds,  and 
consequently  the  more  ready  to  fall. 

Hal. — I  have  often  observed  that  the  old  proverb  is  correct, — 

A  raialiow  in  the  morning  is  the  Bhepherd'a  warning,- 
A  rainljoff  at  night  is  tHe  sbepEierd's  delight. 

Can  you  explain  this  omen  ? 

Phys.—K  rainbow  can  only  occur  when  the  clouds  contain- 
ing or  depositing  the  rain  are  opposite  the  sun, — and  in  the 
evening  the  rainbow  is  in  the  east,  and  in  the  morning  in  the 
west;  and  as  our  heavy  rains,  in  this  climate,  are  usually 
brought  by  the  westerly  wind,  a  rainbow  in  the  west  indicates 
that  the  bad  weather  is  on  the  road,  by  the  wind,  to  us; 
whereas  the  rainbow  in  the  east  proves  that  the  rain  in  those 
clouds  is  passing  from  us. 

Puiet. — I  have  often  observed  that  when  the  swallows  fly 
high,  fine  weather  is  to  be  expected  or  continued ;  but  when 
they  fly  low,  and  close  to  the  ground,  rain  is  almost  surely  ap- 
proaching.    Can  you -account  for  this? 

Hal. — Swallows  follow  the  flies  and  gnats,  and  flies  and  gnats 
usually  delight  in  warm  strata  of  air ;  and  as  warm  air  is  lighter, 
and  usually  moister,  than  cold  air,  when  the  warm  strata  of  air 
are  high,  there  is  less  chance  of  moisture  being  thrown  down 
from  them  by  the  mixture  with  cold  air;  but  when  the  warm 
and  moist  air  is  close  to  the  surface,  it  is  almost  certain  that,  as 
the  cold  air  flows  down  into  it,  a  deposition  of  water  will  take 


lyGoogle 


WB  AT  UEE- W I SDO  M. 


319 


Poiei.—l  have  ofteu  seen  sea-gulls  assemble  on  the  land,  and 
have  almost,  always  observed  tliat  very  stormy  and  rainy  wea- 
ther was  approaching.  I  conclude  that  these  animals,  sensible 
of  a  current  of  air  approaching  from  the  ocean,  retire  to  the 
land  to  shelter  themselveB  from  the  storm, 

Orti.—No  such  thing.  The  storm  is  their  element,  and  the 
little  petrel  enjojs  the  heayiest  gale,  because,  living  on  the 
smaller  sea-insects,  he  is  sure  to  find  hisfood  in  the  spray  of  a 
heavy  wave;  and  you  may  see  him  flitting  above  the  edge  of  the 
highest  surge.  I  believe  that  the  reason  of  this  migration  of 
sea-gulls,  and  other  sea-birds,  to  the  land,  is  their  security  of 
finding  food ;  and  they  may  be  observed  at  this  time  feeding 
greedily  on  the  earth..woi-ms  and  larvas  driven  out  of  the 
ground  by  severe  floods ;  and  the  fish,  on  which  they  prey  ia 
fine  weather  in  the  sea,  leave  the  surface,  and  go  deeper,  in 
storms.  The  search  after  food,  as  we  have  agreed  on  a  former 
occasion,  is  the  principal  cause  why  animals  change  their  places. 
The  difi'ereut  tribes  of  the  wading  birds  always  migrate  when 
rain  is  about  to  take  place;  and  I  remember  once,  in  Italy, 
having  been  long  waiting,  in  the  end  of  March,  for  the  arrival 
of  the  double  snipe  in  the  Campagna  of  Kome,  a  great  flight 
appeared  on  the  3d  of  April,  and  the  day  after  heavy  rain  eet 
in,  which  greatly  interfered  with  my  sport.  The  vulture,  upon 
the  same  principle,  follows  armies ;  and  I  have  no  doubt  that 
the  augury  of  the  ancients  was  a  good  deal  founded  upon  the 
observation  of  the  instincts  of  birds.  There  are  many  super- 
stitions of  the  vulgar  owing  to  the  same  source.  For  anglers, 
in  spring,  it  is  always  ualucty  to  see  single  magpies ;  but  two 
maybe  always  regarded  as  a  favorable  omen;  and  the  reason 
is  that  in  cold  and  stormy  weather  one  magpie  alone  leaves  the 
nest  in  search  of  food,  the  other  remaining  sitting  upon  the 
eggs  or  the  young  ones ;  but  when  two  go  out  together  it  is 
only  when  the  weather  is  warm  and  mild,  and  faVDrahle  for 
fishing. 

PMet.—The  singular  connections  of  oauses  and  eff^ects  to 
which  you  have  just  referred,  make  superstition  less  to  be 


lyClOOglC 


320  WEATHEE-WISDOM. 

wondered  at,  particularly  amongst  the  vulgar ;  and  when  two 
facta,  naturaJly  unconnectad,  have  been  aocidentally  coincident, 
it  13  not  singular  that  this  ooincidenee  should  have  been  ob- 
served and  registered,  and  that  omena  of  the  most  absurd  kind 
should  be  trusted  in.  In  the  west  of  England,  half  a  century 
ago,  a  particular  hollow  noise  on  the  sea-coast  was  referred  to  a 
spirit  or  goblin  called  Buooa,  and  was  supposed  to  foretell  a 
shipwreck  :  the  philosopher  knows  that  sound  travels  much 
faster  than  currents  in  the  air,  and  the  sound  always  foretold 
the  approach  of  a  very  heavy  storm,  which  seldom  takes  place 
on  that  wild  and  rocky  coast  without  a  shipwreck  on  some  part 
of  its  extensive  shores,  surrounded  by  the  Atlantic. 

SIONS   OP  THE   WEATHER. 

The  following  signs  of  raivi  were  given  by  Dr.  Jenner,*  in 
1810,  to  a  lady,  in  reply  to  her  inquiry  whether  it  would  rain 


TliB  Boot  falls  down,  the  spaniels  aleap. 
And  spiders  from  their  cobwebs  creepi 
Last  nights  tlie  sun  nent  poJe  Co  bed. 
The  moon  in  haloe  bid  her  head; 
The  boding  shepherd  heaves  a  sigh. 
For  see,  a  rMnbow  spans  the  skj; 
The  vails  are  damp,  the  ditohej  smell. 
Closed  is  the  pink-ojed  pimpernel ; 
The  squalid  toads  at  dusk  were  seen 
Slowly  orawling  o'or  the  green  ; 
Lond  guaek  the  duoks,  the  peacocks  crjf 
The  distant  hills  are  looking  nigh ; 
Haik,  hon  the  chairs  and  tables  oraok  I 
Old  Betty's  Jointe  are  on  the  raok; 


lyClOOglC 


WEATHER- WISH  CM 


rely  rain,  I  so 


very  noisy;  the  ra' 
with  an  interruptioi 


The  foUowiDg  ia  taken  froai  The  Shepherd's  Calendar,  1683 : 

Signs  of  Sain,  from  Birds. — Sea  and  fresh- water  fowls,  such 
aa  cormoi-anta,  sea-gulls,  moor-heos,  &a.  flying  from  sea  or  the 
fresh  waters  to  land,  show  bad  weather  at  hand;  land  fowls 
flying  to  waters,  and  those  shaking,  washing,  and  noisy,  especi- 
ally in  the  evening,  denote  the  aame  ;  geeso,  ducks,  coots.  &o. 
picking,  shaking,  washing,  and  noisy;  rooka  and  crows  in 
flocka  and  enddeoly  disappearing ;  pyes  and  jays  in  flocks  and 
van  or  hooded-crow  crying  in  tho  morning, 
n  in  its  notes,  or  crows  being  very  elamor- 
_;  the  heron,  bittern,  and  swallow  flying  low; 
birds  forsaking  their  food  and  flying  to  their  nests;  poultry 
going  to  rest  or  pigeons  to  their  dove-house ;  tame  fowls  grub- 
bing in  the  dust  and  ialapping  their  wings ;  small  birds  seeai- 
ing  to  duck  and  wash  in  the  sand ;  the  late  and  early  crowing 
ind  clapping  his  wings ;  the  early  singing  of  wood- 
sarly  chirping  of  sparrows;  the  early  note  of  th« 
chaffinch  near  houses;  the  dull  appearance  of  robin-redbreast, 
near  houses;  peacocks  and  owls  unusually  clamorous. 

Of  yytnil,  from  Birds.— Sea  and  fresh-water  fowls  gathering 
in  flocks  to  the  banks,  and  there  sporting,  especially  in  the 
morning,  wild  geese  flying  high  and  in  flocks,  and  directing 
their  (.ourse  eastward;  coots  restless  and  clamorous ;  the  hoo- 
poe loud  in  his  note ;  the  king's  fisher  taking  to  land ;  rooks 
darting  or  shooting  in  the  air,  or  sporting  on  the  banks  of  fresh 
waters;  and  lastly,  the  appearance  of  tho  maleflgie  at  sea,  is  a 
oert^n  forerunner  of  violent  winds,  and  (early  in  the  morning) 
denotes  horrible  tempests  at  hand. 

Of  Fair  Weather,  from  Birds. — Halcyons,  sea-ducks,  &c. 
leaving  the  land,  and  flocking  to  the  sea ;  kites,  herons,  bitterns, 
aiwl  swallows  flying  highland  loud  in  their  notes;  lapwings 


of  the  cock,  i 
larks;  the  ( 


lyGoogle 


522  ■WEATHER-WISDOM. 

restless  and  clamorous;  sparrows  after  sunrise  restless  and 
noisj;  ravens,  hawka,  and  kestrih  (in  the  morning)  loud  in 
their  notes ;  rob  in- red  breast  mounted  high,  and  loud  in  his 
song;  larks  soaring  high,  and  loud  in  their  songs;  owls  hoot- 
ing with  an  easy  and  clear  note;  bats  appearing  early  in  the 
evening. 

Of  Bain,  from  Beasts.— Ksses  braying  more  freC|uently  than 
usual;  hogs  playing,  scattering  their  food,  or  carrjing  straw  in 
their  mouths;  oxen  snnfSag  the  air,  looking  to  the  south, 
while  lying  on  their  right  sides,  or  licking  their  hoofs;  cattle 
gasping  for  air  at  noon ;  calves  innning  violently  and  gambol- 
ing; deer,  sheep,  or  goats  leaping,  fighting,  or  pushing;  cats 
washing  their  face  and  ears ;  dogs  eagerly  scraping  up  earth ; 
foxes  barking;  rats  and  mice  more  restless  than  usual;  a 
grumbling  noise  in  the  belly  of  hounds. 

Of  Bain,  from  Insects. — WormS  crawling  out  of  the  earth  in 
great  abundance;  spiders  falling  from  their  webs;  flies  dull 
and  restless;  ants  hastemng  to  their  nests,  bees  hastenmg 
home,  and  keeping  chie  la  their  hives,  frogs  drawing  mgh  to 
houses,  and  croaking  flora  ditches ,  gnats  '■ingicg  more  than 
usual ;  but  if  gnats  play  in  the  open  iir,  or  if  hornets,  w  isp"!, 
and  glow-worms  appear  plentifullj  in  the  eTenmg  or  if  spider? 
webs  are  seen  in  the  air  or  on  the  grass,  these  do  ill  denote 
fair  and  warm  weather  at  hand 

Of  Bain,  from  the  Sun — Sun  rising  dim  or  watensh  , 
rising  red  with  blackish  beims  mixed  along  with  his  nys, 
rising  in  a  musty  or  muddy  oolsr,  rising  red  -md  turning 
blackish ;  setting  under  a  thiok  cloud,  setting  with  a  red  sky 
in  tha  east. 

Sudden  rains  never  last  long,  but  when  the  air  grows  thick 
by  degrees,  and  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars  shine  dimmer  and 
dimmer,  then  it  is  like  to  rain  sis  hours  usually. 

Of  Wind,  from  the  Sun.— Sun  rising  pale  and  setting  red, 
with  an  iris ;  rising  large  in  surface ;  rising  with  a  red  sky  in 
the  north  ;  setting  of  a  blood  color;  setting  pale,  with  one  or 
more  dark  circles,  or  accompanied  with  red  streaks,  seeming 


lyClOOglC 


\VEATHER-"WISi>OM 


o2i 


Cij^eave  or  hollow ;   sceaiing  divided,  great  storms ;  parhelia,  or 
raock  suus,  never  appear  but  are  followed  by  teoipeat. 

Of  Fair  Wmtlier,  from,  the  ^wn.— Sun  vising  clear,  having 
set  clear  the  night  before;  rising  while  the  clouds  about  hi™ 
are  driving  to  the  west ;  rising  with  an  iris  arouod  hira,  and 
that  iris  wearing  away  equally  oq  all  sides,  then  expect  fair  and 
settled  weather;  rising  clear  and  not  hot;  setting  in  red  clouds, 
according  to  the  old  observation, — 

Tho  evoning  red  and  morning  gray, 
Is  the  Buro  sign  of  a  fair  day. 

To  liie  above  may  be  added  the  following  from  a  more  recent 

As  a  rule,  a  cii-ole  around  the  moon  indicates  rain  and  wind. 
When  seen  with  a  north  or  northeast  wind,  wc  may  look  for 
stormy  weather,  especially  if  the  circle  be  large ;  with  the  wind 
in  any  other  quarter,  we  may  expect  rain;  so  also  when  the 
ring  is  small  and  the^moon  seems  covered  with  mist.  If,  how- 
ever, the  mooQ  rise  after  sunset,  and  a  circle  be  soon  after 
formed  around  it,  no  rain  is  foreboded.  In  the  Netherlands 
they  have  this  proverb  : — 


Eeo  liring  <,m  de  maan 

(Ati 

S  ronnd  the  moo 

Die  knn  vorgnan ; 

May 

OS3  away  soon; 

Maar  eon  kring  om  de  ion 

But  a 

ring  round  tho  s 

Goell.  B-atEC  in  do  Ion. 

Gives 

water  in  the  tun. 

An  old  astrologer,  referring  to  St.  Paul's  day,  Jan.  25,  guys : — 


Then  will  bs  dear  all  sorts  of  grain; 
Or  if  tho  wind  do  blow  aloft, 
Great  stirs  will  yes  the  world  full  oft,- 
And  If  (lark  olouda  do  mnff  the  slij, 
Tben  fowl  and  eattlo  oft  nill  diu. 

Another,  alluding  to  the  Ember-day  in  December,  s 


The  following  is  from  a  manuscript  in  the  British  Museum  :- 


lyClOOglC 


324  WEATHER-WISDOM.  ■ 

If  Christmaa  daj  on  Thuradaj  be, 
A  wiodj  winter  jou  ahall  see ; 
Windy  weather  in  eaoh  week, 
And  hard  tcmpe^ta,  strong  and  think; 
The  summer  Bhali  he  good  and  drj. 
Com  and  beasts  shall  multiply  ; 
That  year  is  good  for  lands  to  till  ; 
Kings  and  princes  shall  die  by  sfciU ; 
If  a  child  born  that  day  shall  be, 
It  shall  happen  right  well  for  thee : 
Of  dseda  he  shall  he  good  and  stable. 
Wise  of  speeoli,  and  reasonable. 
Whoso  that  day  goes  thieving  abou^ 
He  shall  be  punished,  without  doubt; 
And  if  sickness  that  day  betide, 
It  shnU  quiokl;  from  thee  glide. 

rNLUCKY  DAYS. 

The  following  list  of  the  "  evil  dajs  in  each  month"  ia 
trauslated  from  the  original  Latin  verses  ia  the  old  Sarum 


January. 

Of  this  first  month,  the  opening  d'ay 

And  seventh  like  a  sword  will  slay. 

/■eSn-nrj 

The  fourth  day  briogeth  down  to  death ; 

The  third  will  stop  a  strong  man's  breatl 

Harth. 

The  first  the  greedy  glutton  slays;' 

The  fourth  outs  short  the  drunkard's  day 

April. 

Are  ready  death's  fell  work  to  do. 

M^. 

The  third  to  slay  poor  man  hath  pHwer; 

The  seventh  deatroyeth  in  an  hour. 

J^^. 

The  tenth  a  paflid  visago  shows; 

No  faith  nor  truth  the  fifteenth  knows. 

My. 

The  thirteenth  is  a  fatal  day; 

The  tenth  alike  will  mortals  slay. 

Auffiial. 

The  first  kills  stTODg  ones  at  a  blow; 

The  seoond  lays  a  cohort  low. 

/iepUmber 

The  third  day  ef  the  month  September, 

And  tenth,  bring  evil  to  each  member. 

Ocfoier. 

The  third  and  tenth,  witli  poisoned  breatl 

To  man  are  foes  as  fonl  as  death. 

Nwnmbei- 

The  third  is  tinctnred  with  destruction's 

Decembf. 

The  seventh's  a  fatal  day  K.  human  lift ; 

lyGoogle 


O.  a.  AND  N.  S 


©.  S-  anil  ia.  S- 

THE  GREGORIAN  OALENDAE. 

The  Julian  calendar  was  &amed  about  46  years  before  Christ. 
Otfflar  made  the  year  consist  of  365  days;  and  the  anriual 
excess  of  six  hours,  which  amounted  to  one  day  in  four  years, 
waa  taken  into  account  by  mating  every  fourth  year  (leap- 
year)  consist  of  360  days.  But  Csesar's  correction  of  the 
calendar  was  imperfeotj  being  founded  on  the  supposition  that 
the  solar  year  consisted  of  365  days,  6  hours,  whereas  the  true 
fcolar  J  eai  tonsista  ut  365  days,  5  hoars,  48  minutes,  45i  seconds. 
Thus  the  Jul  au  year  exceeded  the  solar  11  minutes  14i 
seconds  — which  amounted  to  a  whole  day  in  130  years.  In 
(,onsec^ueni,e  of  this  inaccuracy,  the  vernal  eijuinox,  which 
happened  on  the  25tli  of  Maroh  in  the  time  of  Julius  Csesar^ 
hid  receded  to  the  Slst  of  March  in  the  year  325,  and  was 
fixed  to  thit  diy  by  the  Council  of  Nico,  Attempts  were 
attciwards  mide  to  effeU  some  change  in  the  calendar;  but  a 
complete  retoimatun  was  not  made  until  1582.  Pope  Gregory 
XIII  invited  to  Rome  the  most  learned  astronomers  of  the 
a^e,  and  after  the  subject  had  been  discussed  ten  years,  it  was 
deciecd  that  the  vernil  equinox,  which  had  receded  ten  days 
since  the  Council  of  Nill  and  consequently  happened  on  tha 
llth  of  Maich  s,liould  be  brought  back  to  the  21st  of  March, 
-md  that  for  this  purpose  ten  days  should  be  taken  from  the 
mcnth  ot  Octobi.1,  1582  To  avoid  future  deviation,  it  was 
determined  that  initead  of  every  100th  year  being  leap-year, 
every  400th  year  only  shDuld  be  leap-year.  By  this  plan — n, 
diminution  of  three  days  m  400  years— the  error  in  the  present 
calendar  will  not  exceed  a  day  and  a  half  in  five  thousand  years. 

The  calendar  thus  reformed  by  Pope  Gregory  was  imme- 
diately introduced  into  Catholic  countries,  but  was  not  finally 


lyClOOglC 


326  O.  S.    AND   N,  s. 

adopted  in  Great  Britain  until  1753,  when,  by  act  of  Parlia- 
ment, eleven  days  were  struck  out  of  the  calendar,  the  3d  of 
September  being  reckoned  the  14th.  The  Greek  Church  atiil 
obstinately  adheres  to  the  old  style, 

aESULTS   OF  TOE   CHANGE  IN   THE    STYLE. 

The  following  happily-ooneeivcd  address  to  the  patroniJ  of 
"Poor  Job's  Almanac"  was  occasioned  by  the  change  of  the 
style  in  1752.     The  number  of  that  year  bears  the  title — 

Poor  Job,  1753.  Bi/  Job  Shepherd,  philom.  Newport. 
Printed  by  James  Ft-ankUn*  at  the  Printing-office  under  the 
Town  School-house.  In  this  almanac  the  month  of  September 
has,  in  the  margin,  the  figures  of  the  successive  days,  eom- 
meaoing  1,  3;  and,  after  leaving  blank  a  apace  for  eleven 
days,  recommencing  with  14,  and  continuing  to  the  30th. 

Kind  Reader  : — -You  have  now  such  a  year  as  you  never 
saw  before,  nor  will  see  hereafter,  the  King  and  Parliament 
of  Groat  Britain  having  thought  proper  to  enact  that  the 
month  of  September,  1763,  shall  oontaio  but  nineteen  days, 
which  will  shorten  this  year  eleven  days,  aud  have  extended 
the  same  throughout  the  British  dominions ;  so  that  we  are  not 
to  have  two  beginnings  to  our  yeara,  but  the  first  of  January  is 
to  be  the  first  day  and  the  first  mouth  of  the  year  1752;  eleven 
days  are  taken  from      p  d  b  14         &      B 

not  astonished,  nor  1     k        h  d  d 

deduction  of  days,  n         g  h  m    h 

but  take  this  for  you  h      y  p  wi 

haps  appear  lighter,  m    d  b     m  Ad 

what  an  indulgence       h  h        w  h  W 

lie  down  in  peace  on    h  h       d        p    hp 

awake  or  be  disturb  d  h  h  g 

And,  reader,  this  is  n      to  his         h    p  ym  d  b 

dom  of  apprentices 'or  servants,  or  the  coming  to  a^e  ot  minora , 
but  the  number  of  natural  days  in  all  agreements  are  to  be  ful- 


ly CiOOglC 


ME  MORI  A   TECHNICA. 


327 


filled.  All  Cliuceli  holidays  and  Courta  are  to  be  on  the  same 
ijnminal  days  they  were  before ;  but  fairs,  after  the  second  of 
September,  alter  the  nominal  days,  and  so  seemed  to  be  held 
eleven  days  later.  Now,  reader,  since  'tis  likely  you  may  never 
have  Bueb  another  year  nor  siioh  another  almanac,  I  would  ad- 
vise you  to  improve  the  one  for  your  own  sake,  and  I  recom- 
mend the  other  for  the  sake  of  your  friend,  PoOK  Job. 


ifilnnoria  ^Ceciiivica. 

KAMEa   AND   OEDEK  OF  THE   BOOKS   OF  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT. 
Thb  Great  Jehovali  speaks  to  ua 
Iq  Seneeia  and  Bsodus  i 

Followed  by  Deuleronomj. 
Joahutt  and  Judges  away  tbs  larnJ, 
Bnth  gieana  a  sheaf  with  tremblmg  hand ; 
Bamnel  and  noiBBroua  Kinga  appear 
Whose  Chronicles  wa  wondering  hear. 
Eira  aod  Nehsmiah,  now, 
Esther  the  boautcous  mourner  show. 
Job  speaks  in  sighs,  David  in  Fsalma, 
The  Prorerbe  teaoh  to  eoattar  alms; 
SooleBtaates  then  oomea  on, 
And  the  sweet  Song  of  Solooion. 
laiuah,  Jeremiah  then 
With  Lamentations  takes  his  pen, 
Bzokial,  Daniel,  Hosea'a  IjrOB 
Swell  Joel,  Alios,  Obadiah's. 
Next  Jonas,  Mieah,  Nahnm  oome. 
And  lofty  HahiJtkuk  finds  room- 
While  Zaphaniah,  Haggai  eolls. 
Wrapt  Zauhariah  builds  his  walla; 

Coneludes  the  ancient  Testament, 
NAMES   AND  ORDEIl  OF  THB  BOOKS  OF  THE   NEW  TESTAMENT. 
JVfatfhew,  Mark,  Lake,  and  John,  wrote  the  life  of  their  Lord; 
The  Acts,  what  Aposdes  aeeojnplished,  record; 
Rome,  Corinth,  flalatus,  Bphesus,  hear 
What  PhilippiauB,  Coloseians,  Thoasalonians  reyere: 


lyGoogle 


Tintotlieus,  Titus,  Philemon,  preeoda 
Tlie  Epiatle  wliicli  Hubrows  most  gratflfUIly  read; 
Jamoe,  Poler,  and  Joha,  nith  tbo  short  laCtH  Jnde, 
The  rounds  of  Divine  itevelation  oonolude. 

NAMES   OF   BHAKSPE are's   PLAYS. 
mittinff  tJie  Hielorical  English  Uratttas,  "  guM  vereu  dic&e  m 
CymbeliBe,  TempeBli,  Muoh  Ado,  Verona, 
Moirj  Wives,  Twelfth  Night,  Aa  jou  Like  if,  Errors, 
Shrew  Taming,  Night's  Droam,  Meaanre,  Andronions, 

TimonofAthims. 
Winter's  Tale,  Merchant,  Troilas,  I.eai,  Hamlet^ 
Love's  Labor,  All's  WeU,  Pennies,  Olhello, 
Uomeo,  Maclwth,  Oloojiatra,  Cffisor, 


ENOLISH   i 
First  William  the  Norman, 

Then  WiUiam  hia  son; 
Henry,  Stephen,  and  Heury, 

Than  Kiohard  and  John. 
Next  Heoi';  the  Third, 

Edwacis  one,  two,  and  three) 
And  again,  uflci  Richard, 

Three  Henrys  we  see. 
Two  Edwards,  third  Biehard, 

If  rightly  I  guess; 
Two  Henrys,  sisth  Edward, 

Queen  Mary,  Queen  Bees. 
Then  Jamie,  the  Scotchman, 

Then 


TogetJier  eume  on. 
Till,  Anne,  Georges  four. 

And  fourth  William  all  past, 
God  sent  Queon  Victoria; 

May  she  loug  be  the  last ! 
PEBSIBENTS  OE   THE  UNITED  STATE 
First  stands  the  lofty  Washington, 
That  nobly  great,  immortal  one ; 
The  elder  ADAiia  nest  we  see, 
And  Jeffessou  comes  nuinber  three; 


lyGoogle 


TECHNICA. 


Tlie  fourth  is  Madikom,  you  koovf, 
The  fifth  one  on  the  list,  Mosrob  ,■ 
Tbe  sixth  an  Adaus  aomes  again, 
And  JicKHUN  BOYonth  in  the  train,- 
Van  Buksn  eighth  upoa  the  line, 

Tho  tenth  is  TvLKB  in  his  turn, 
And  Polk  oloyenth,  aa  we  laani; 
The  twelfth  is  Taylor  that  appears ; 
The  ihiitSBntli,  FiKljuorb  fills  his  years; 
Then  PiEBOE  oomeB  fourteenth  into  view; 
SucHiHAN  ia  tbe  fifteenth  due ; 

eiiteenth  Lincoln,  foully  slain  i 


These 


eenth  w 


a  reign; 


THE    DECALOGUE. 
.0  Gods  hut  me;  2.  Nor  graven  type  ndore; 
ieventh  day;  5.  Tty  parents'  honor  lose: 


Worship  to  God— but  not  Qod  grarso— pity; 

BLaspheme  not;  sanctify  the  Sabbath  day; 
Be  honored  parents ;  brother's  blood  unsbed ; 

And  unpolluted  hold  the  mairiEige  bed; 
From  theft  thy  hand — thy  tongue  from  lying — 


Horoi 


leighbor 


Thou  no  God  shall  have  but  me 
Before  no  idol  bow  thrj  knoo; 
Take  not  the  name  of  God  in  ti 
Nor  dare  the  Sabbath  day  prof  a 
Give  hoth  thj  parents  honor  du 
Take  heed  that  thou  no  murder 


is  Ihj  noighbor's,  do  not  covet. 


lyGoogle 


lioO  MEMOalA   TECilNICA. 

METRICAL   GRAMMAE, 

Threo  little  words  wo  often  see 

Are  Articles,  a,  a«,  njid  the. 

A  Noun's  the  nante  of  an;  tbmg, 

Aa  icliQolf  or  garden^  hoop,  or  aitnng, 

Adjectivaa  teU  the  kind  of  Noun, 

As  great,  small,  pretty,  white,  or  irown. 

InatBod  of  Nouns  the  Prononns  Stand— 

Her  fan.  Ma  faoe,  my  arm,  your  hand. 

Verba  tell  of  something  being  done — 

To  read,  write,  eonm,  ling,  jump,  or  nm. 

How  things  are  done  the  Adverbs  tell, 

As  iloaly,  quiokly,  ill,  of  tcell. 

Conjunctions  join  the  words  together, 

Aa  men  and  ohiidreu,  Bind  or  weather. 

The  Preposition  stands  before 

A  Honn— as,  iu  or  thongh  a  door. 

The  Inlaijeotion  shovre  surprise, 

As    Oil!  bow  pretty,  AhJ  how  wise. 

The  whole  are  called  nine  parts  of  Speeob, 

Which  Seading,  Wi-iliag,  Speakinn,  teaoh. 

NUMBEK  OF   DAYS  IN  EACH   MONTH. 

One  of  the  moat  nseful  lesaoti«  taught  tis  in  early  life  by 
ai  thmetical  treat  sea  is  that  of  Grafton's  well-known  lines  in 
lit*  Cho  ds  of  E  glani  15^10  S  r  Waiter  Scott,  in  con- 
V  rsat  on  w  fl  a  fr  end  aiverted  joeulirly  to  that  ancient  and 
r    I   eta!  le  but     nLn  wn  jioet    who  had  giyea  us  this  for- 


Th     y  day    ha  h  -Sep    mbor, 
AprU,  June,  and  NoTcmberi 
And  all  Ihe  rest  hare  thirty-one 
Bioopting  February  alone, 
Which  has  but  twenty-eight,  in 
Till  Leap-Year  gives  it  twenty- 

Tho  fonn  used  by  the  Quakers 

runs  thus 

The  fourth,  elo 
Have  thirty  da 
Every  other,  tb 
Except  the  sea 

enth, 
yatoe 
irty-or 
ndmo 

ninth  and  e 

leh  affixed  J 

e, 

nth  aloEB. 

lyGoogle 


ORIGIN  or  1 


©rigin  of  Eijinss  .iFamiliar. 


k    g     h    b    d 


b     a^k  d      Wh 


Fa  and  Q's !" 

Tbe  writer  from  wliom  we  glean  this 

informa 

tion   mentions 

an   amusing  anecdote  in   eonnection 

with  If 

wliicb  had  its  origin  in  London,  at  the  time  a  "  Learned  Pig" 
waa  attracting  the  attention  of  half  the  town.  A  theatrical 
wag,  who  attended  the  porcine  performances,  maliciously  sot 
before  the  four-legged  actor  some  peas, — a  temptation  wbicli  the 
animal  could  not  resist,  and  which  immediately  occasioned  iim 
to  lose  the  "one"  given  him  by  the  showman.  The  pig-eshib- 
itor  remonstrated  with  the  author  of  tbe  mischief  on  tlie  unfair- 
ness  of  what  he  had  done ;  to  wbieh  he  replied,  "  I  only 
wanted  to  ascertain  whether  the  pig  knew  bis  '  peas'  from  bis 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OF  THTNGS   FAMILIAR. 


Jyp  yhbtod  hw         m 

h     p  wt   h  w  nd  m  n 

whtwh  J  hby  has  b 

k  nip        w     t      w         g         m  p 

across  bis  shoulders ;  or  to  ask  a  school iniatresa  for  the  biography 
of  Eve's  mother;  or  to  aa  old  bachelor  to  purohase  pigeon's 
milk.  Many  a  printer's  "deyil"  has  been  sent  to  a  neighbor- 
jiig  editor  for  a  quart  of  editorial,  and  received  in  return  a  pic- 
ture of  a  jaoliass;  and  many  a  pretty  girl  despatched  to  the 
handsome  druggist  round  the  corner  for  the  essence  of  tulips 
(two-lips,)  which  she  would  Boraetimes  bos  the  pharmaceutic  ears 
for  offering  to  give  her.  Some  would  be  summoned,  upon  the 
most  unfounded  pretests,  out  of  their  warm  beds,  an  hour  oi 
more  before  the  accustonied  time.  Others  were  enticed  to  open 
packages,  promising  ample  remuneration,  but  full  of  disappoint- 
ment; and  others  again,  as  they  passed  along  the  streets,  were 
captivated  by  the  sight  of  pieces  of  spurious  coin,  which,  when 
they  essayed  to  lift,  they  found  securely  fastened  to  the  pavement, 
— together  with  various  other  whimsicalities,  which  under  other 
eiroumstances  would  have  been  deemed  highly  offensive,  but, 
happening  on  the  First  of  April,  were  considered,  if  not  agree- 
able, at  least  oopiparatively  harmless.  The  origin  of  this 
strange  custom  is  shrouded  in  mystery.  It  has  been  traced  by 
some  to  the  scene  in  the  life  of  Jesus  when  he  was  sent  from 
Pilate  to  Herod,  and  back  from  Herod  to  Pilate,  which  occurred 
about  this  period. 


lyGoogle 


OBIGIS   OF  THINGS   FAMILIAR.  j  > 

Brady's    Clavis   Calendaria,   published   in   1812,  mention'! 

that  more  than  a  century  previous  the  almaDaca  designated  the 

First  of  April  as  "  All  Fools'  Day."    In  the  notthern  counlics 

of  England  and  Scotland,  the  jokes  on  that  day  were  pr'iotisi,  1 

g  d  ■  cely  required  an  apology  to  espen- 

m  p  d  most  respectable  of  city  or  country 

m  d  w  m         Th    person  whose  good  nature  or  sim- 

p  p     hmmmn       yn  the  power  of  his  facetious  neigh- 

b     w  V,     g     k  — dad  the  sending  upon  ridiculous 

d        h         g  h   If  wk  '     The  term  "gowk"  was  a  com- 

m  p  i  0,  which  was  reckoned  among  the 

■il  feathered  tribea. 

F  p  m  de  the  butt  upon  these  otoiaions 

was  d  p      m  d  Avrir'—thst  is,  an  Apnl  fish — by 

p  Ap  — "poisson  d'AvrU,"    the  famihir 

m  fi-h  easily  caught  by  deception,  singly 

nd    n   h  ea        of  the  year.     The  term  "Apul 

(X)     w      h  p    b  b      nothing  more  than  an  eiiy  fubsti- 

h       pp    b  p  thet  for  fish,  and  it  is  quitt  liLelj 

h  b       w  d  the  custom  from  France,  nith  this 

h    p  p  r  to  the  occasion.     It  js  possible 

w  y  h       b  en  derived  from  poison,  misi,hiet 

Am    g    h    F        h      d  is  the  most  suoeesaful  weapon  tor 

eorrectmg  tolly  and  holding  vice  in  terrorem.     A  Frenehmiu 

is  more  afraid  of  a  successful  hon  mot  at  his  expense  than  of  1 

sword,  and  the  First  of  April  is  a  day,  therefore,  of  which  he 

can  make  a  double  application  :  he  may  gratify  his  love  of 

pleasantry  among  his  friends,  or  inflict  a  severe  wound  on  his 

enemies,  if  he  possess  the  art  and  wit  to  invent  and  perpetrate 

a  worthy  piece  of  foolery  upon  them.      One  of  the  best  tricks 

that  ever  oceurted  in  France  was  that  of  llabelaig,  who  fooled 

the  officers  of  justice,  when  he  had  no  money,  into  uonyejing 

him  from  Marseilles  to  Pdris  on  a  charge  of  treason  got  up  for 

the  purposo,  and,  when  arrived  there,  showing  them  how  they 

were  hoased.     For  this  purpose  he"  made  up  some  brick-dust 

and  ashes  in  different  packets,  labelled  as  poisons  for  the  royal 


lyClOOglC 


334"  ORIGIh   or   THINGS   TAMILIAR. 

family  of  Fiance      The  bait  took,  and  Le  was  conveyed  to  the 
Eipital  as  i  trrttor,  seven  hundred  miles,  only  to  esplain  the 

There  is  a  very  common  piactioal  ]o\e  on  fools  day  in  the 
British  mftropoha  it  consists  m  despatching  a  letter  hy  an 
unlucky  dupe,  whi  i^  to  wait  tor  an  answer  The  answer  la  a 
Eecoad  Bote,  to  a  third  person,  '  to  send  the  fool  farther  "  i 
young  surgeon,  a  greenhorn  in  practice  fre''h  from  St  Bir 
tholomews,  his  instmmeiita  unfleshed  on  hia  twn  ai,count,  and 
his  surgery  bottles  full  to  repletion,  was  tilled  i  few  yeirs  1^0 
from  the  Strind  to  a  patient  in  Newgate  Street  very  rich, 
named  Dcbbs  It  was  the  First  of  ipiil,  uid  it  wa^  his  first 
pitieat  The  young  EscuUpius  wis  usheied  into  the  piasencp 
ot  the  supj  osed  pitient,  who  was  busy  writing  m  his  counting 
house  The  suiireon  explained  his  errand,  and  Mr  Bobbs 
having  an  excellent  mercdatile  d  aoernment  soon  saw  thiou^h 
the  afiair  He  bowed  and  sai !,  "  It  is  ■>  mistake,  iir  my  name 
is  Dobbs,  but  I  am,  thank  God,  halo  and  hearty.  It  is  my 
brother,  the  sugar-baker,  on  Pish  Street  Hill,  that  has  sent  for 
you,  [carriage  or  horse  he  had  none,]  three-fourths  of  a  mile 
farther."  He  entered  among  the  pyramids  of  snowy  sweets,  and 
found  Mr.  Dobbs,  the  sugar-baker,  of  Fish  Street  Hill,  as  hale 
as  his  brother  of  Newgate  Street.  The  refiner  of  saccharine 
juice  understood  his  brother's  note,  stammered  out  a  pretended 
apology  for  the  mistake,  and  said  he  supposed,  as  the  young 
man's  directions  were  to  Mr.  J.  Dobbs,  and  not  Mr.  Jeft'ry 
Dobbs,  that  was  intended;  that  his  name  was  Jeffry,  but  his 
brother  John,  a  third  member  of  the  family,  and  in  his  busi- 
ness, lived  at  Limehouse,  whither  he  thought,  if  our  surgeon 
proceeded,  he  would  find  the  person  he  sought.  An  address 
was  handed  the  young  tourniquet  at  the  extreme  end  of  Lime- 
house,  which  address,  it  is  needless  to  say,  was  false.  What 
will  not  a  Burgeon  do  to  obtain  his  first  patient,  and  a  rich  one 
too?  Away  he  posted  to  Limehouse,  and  soon  found  how  far 
be  had  traveOed  for  nothing.  Tired  and  disappointed,  and 
scheming  vengeance  on  the  authors  of  the  hoax,  he  set  off  on 


lyGoogle 


ORIGIN   OF  THINGS   TAMILIAIL  335 

tis  return  home,  cursing  tte  Dobbs  family  evei^  step  lie  went. 
As  he  passed  along  Upper  Shadwell,  he  saw  a  horse  gallop  furi- 
onsly  down  Chamomile  Street  and  fling  its  rider  a  heavy  fall 
on  the  pavement.  He  ran  and  lifted  the  fallen  man,  whom  he 
found  insenBible.  He  conveyed  him  to  a  shop  hard  by,  bled 
him,  and  had  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  him  open  his  eyes.  Suf- 
fice it  to  say  that,  on  being  conveyed  home,  our  young  sur- 
geon attended  him  until  he  was  restored  to  health ;  and  so 
gratefully  were  his  exertions  received  by  the  stranger,  who  was  a 
rich  East  India  merchant,  far  advanced  in  life,  that  he  took 
him  into  his  house  as  a  medical  attendant  and  friend,  and  ulti- 
mately'left  him  the  bulk  of  his  property.  Thus,  out  of  an  in- 
tended Fools'  Day  hoax,  by  the  inscrutable  caprice  of  fortune,  a 
frolic  led  its  dupe  to  wealth.  This  anecdote,  according  to  the 
London  Athenasum,  may  be  depended  on  as  true,  nothing  in 
the  story  but  tho  name  adopted,  to  conceal  the  real  actors  in 
the  drama,  being  fictitious. 

A  day  of  fooleries,  the  HvU  Fest,  is  observed,  also,  among 
the  Hindoos,  attended  with  the  like  silly  species  of  witticism. 

By  many  it  is  belitved  that  the  term  "  all"  is  a  corruption 
of  auld  or  old,  thereby  mtking  it  originally  '  Old  Fools'  Day," 
in  confirmation  of  which  opinion  tte  following  observation  is 
quoted  from  an  ancient  Bomau  cilendar  respecting  the  lat  of 
November  : — "  The  feast  of  old  fiols  is  removed  to  this  day." 
The  oldest  almanacs  extant,  however,  have  it  all  fand  not  okl) 
fools'  day.  Besides  the  Koman  "  Saturnalia"  and  the  Druid- 
ical  rites,  superstitions  which  the  early  Christians  found  in 
existence  when  they  commenced  their  labors  in  England,  was 
the  Festum  Fatwirum,  or  Fools'  Holiday,  which  was  doubtless 
our  present  First  of  April.  In  some  of  the  German  classics 
frequent  mention  is  laado  of  the  Aprilen  Narr,  so  that  even 
the  G-ermans  of  the  olden  time  understood  how  to  practise  theii 
cunning  April  arts  upon  their  neighbors  quite  as  well  as  we  of 
tho  present  day. 

Enough  has  been  here  quoted  to  prove  that  the  custom  is  of 
very  ancient  existence;  but  the  precise  origin  thereof  remains 


lyClOOglC 


i  H.       N      F      H  NO      r      I  LIIR 

ind   c  vered  ind  w  II  have  to  1     d  g  f  on     ome  of  the  musty 
chron  ole     i  g  ay  aot  q    ty    But  be  the  or  g  n  of  the  custom 
wh'it    t  may  we  c  nnot  avo  d  the  eonelus  on  that  it  ia  one 
n  ore  honoreJ  n  the  !  reach  thdn  n  th    obaervanoe  " 

CARDS. 

About  the  year  1390,  cards  were  invented  to  divert  Charles 
IV.,  then  King  of  France,  who  was  fallen  into  a  melancholy 
disposition.  That  they  were  not  in  use  before  appears  highly 
probable,  Ist,  Because  no  cards  are  to  be  seen  in  any  paint- 
ings, soidpture,  tapestry,  &c.  more  ancient  than  the  preceding 
period,  but  are  represented  in  many  works  of  ingenuity  ainoe 
that  ago.  2dly,  No  prohibitions  relative  to  cards,  by  the  king's 
edicts,  are  mentioned;  although  some  few  years  before,  a  most 
severe  one  was  published,  forbidding  by  name  all  manner  of 
spoiis  and  pastimes,  in  order  that  the  subjects  might  exercise 
in  shooting  with  bows  and  arrows  and  he  in  a  con- 
p  thEI'!  Nw't"  ttbpesmd 
g  m    as        I    w    li  1        b  mtted       tl 

h  d    h  y  1  dly    I       11    h  1 


I  1  h     gh   tw     ty  y 

t    d    t  d  th      1    gy  by 
tm       i       1       th 

II  h    g    —    P   d 
htf     th    k    f,               m 

tte    th  t  d  t          d  pi  y 
&  11          =!j     d      Ab     t  th 
t  b    k    f  th     k              ff 
f          p    k     t  p      t  1  1 
tl        1                P     t    fc 

h   h       d    th  m  d         Th  th     1  y     1    dl 

th  y  11  d  p  y  Use  picfEe    p      t  d  1     1     1  4  hlj 

Ab    t  th   ty  y  t      this  d    t  t        1 

in  Prance,    and  another  by  Emanuel,  Duke  of  Savoj,    only 
permitting  the  lidies  this  pastime,  pro  ijuniht,  foi  pins  and 

Of  their  designs — The  inventor  prrpoaed  by  the  figures  of 
the  four  suits,  or  colors,  as  the  French  call  them  to  represent 
the  four  states  or  classes  of  men  in  the  kmglom      By  the 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OF  THINGS   FAMILIAR. 


337 


CiEnars  (hearts)  are  meant  the  G&ns  de  Ckixw,  choir-men,  or 
eoelesiaatics ;  and  therefore  the  Spaniards,  who  eertainlj  re- 
oeived  the  use  of  cards  from  the  French,  have  copas  or  chalices 
instead  of  hearts.  The  nobility,  or  prime  military  part  of  the 
kingdom,  are  represented  hj  the  ends  or  points  of  lances,  or 
pikes;  and  our  ignorance  of  the  meaning  or  reBemblanoe  of  the 
figure  induced  us  to  call  them  spades.  The  Spaniards  have 
e^padas  (sworda)  in  lieu  of  pikes,  which  is  of  similar  import. 
By  diamonds  are  designated  the  order  of  citizens,  meruhaot,i, 
and  tradesmen,  carreaux,  (square  stonp  tiles,  or  the  like.)  The 
Spaniards  have  a  coin  dinei-os,  which  answers  to  it;  and  the 
Dutch  call  the  French  word  carreaxur,  stieneen,  stones  and  dia- 
monds, from  the  form.  Tre>,te,  the  trefoil  leaf,  or  clover  grass, 
(corruptly  called  clubs,)  alludes  to  husbandmen  and  peasants. 
How  this  suit  came  to  be  called  clubs  is  not  explained,  unless, 
borrowing  the  game  from  the  Rpanurds,  who  have  bastos  (staves 
or  clubs)  instead  of  the  trefoil,  we  gate  the  Spanish  significa- 
tion to  the  French  figure. 

The  "  history  of  the  four  kings,"  which  the  French  in  droll- 
ery sometimes  call  "the  cards,"  is  that  of  David,  Alexander,. 
Omar,  and  Charles,  names  which  were,  and  still  are,  on  the 
French  cards.  These  respective  names  represent  the  four  cele-- 
bi'ated  monarohies  of  the  Jews,  Greeks,  liomans,  and  Franks 
under  Charlemagne. 

By  the  queens  are  intended  Argine,  Esther,  Jv/lilh,  ands 
PaJlas,  (names  retained  in  the  French  eards,)  tyiMcal  of  birth,, 
piety,  fortitude,  and  wisdom,  the  qualifications  residing  in  each: 
person.  "  Argine"  is  an  anagram  for  "Eegina,"  queen  by, 
descent 

By  the  knaves  were  designed  the  servants  to  knights,  (for; 
knave  originally  meant  only  servant ;  and  in  an  old  translation' 
of  the  Biljle,  St.  Paul  is  called  the  knave  of  Christ,)  but.Freneh 
pages  and  valets,  now  indiscriminately  used  by  various  orders 
of  persons,  were  formerly  only  allowed  to  persons  of  quality, 
esquires,  (esouiers,)  shield  or  armor  bearers.  Others  fancy 
that  the  knights  themselves  were  designed  by.  those  cards,  be- 


lyGoogle 


338  ORIGIN   OP  THINGS   FASIIHAR. 

cause  HcHfier  and  LaMre,  two  names  on  tbe  French  cards, 
were  famous  knighta  at  the    time  cards  were  supposed  to  be 


But  when  we  witli  caution  a  secret  disolose, 

Wa  oiy,  "Be  it  spoken,  sir,  under  the  rosa." 

Sicca  'Us  known  that  tbo  rose  was  on  eublem  of  old, 

■VVTioae  leBTBa  by  their  cloaencBB  tanstt  aecrela  to  hold; 

And  'twas  thenee  it  was  painted  on  tables  ao  oft 

As  a  warning,  leat^  when  with  a  ftankness  men  aooft 

At  their  neighbor,  their  lord,  their  fat  priest,  or  their  nation, 

Britiah  Apollo,  1J08. 

The  origin  of  the  phrase  ■under  the  rose  implies  secrecy,  and 

'  ■■       ■  '     -■>  -  ^  -  -  'L <■'■'    -'■  —"-=^^11  time  Pausa- 

f  the  Spartans 
Xersea  for  the 
For  the  hand  of 
igotiations  were 
Die  of  Minerva, 
a  garden  foria- 
was  conducted 
■under  the  rose 


(the  overseers 
}  them  a  secret 
himself  the  ac- 
;,  he  fled  to  the 
lace  forbade  in- 
3oplo  walled  lip 
one  eainoe  wim  bkjlius  auu  ibiu  uiiii  im  uib  oi  otarvation.  His 
own  mother  laid  the  first  stone. 

It  afterward  became  a  custom  among  the  Athenians  to  wear 
roses  in  their  hair  whenever  they  wished  to  communicate  to 
another  a  secret  which  thej  wished  to  be  iept  inviolate.  Hence 
the  saying  sub  rosa  among  them,  and,  since,  among  Christian 
nations. 


lyGoogle 


OKIGIN   OP   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 


339 


OVER    THE    LEET. 

The  earliest  traoe  of  the  use  and  peculiar  slgnllieauoe  of  this 
phrase  may  be  found  in  the  Records  of  the  Hartford  County 
Goarts,  in  the  (then)  Colony  of  Connecticut,  as  follows : — 
At  a  County  Court  hold  at  Hartford,  ) 
September  4,  1705.      | 

Whereas  Jaraes  Steel  did  commence  an  action  against  Bevell 
Waters  (both  of  Hartford)  in  this  Court,  upon  hearing  and 
tryall  whereof  the  Court  gave  judgment  against  the  said  Wa- 
ters, (as  in  justice  they  think  they  ought,)  upon  the  declaring 
the  SHid  judgment,  the  said  Waters  did  review  to  the  Court  in 
March  next,  that,  being  granted  and  entered,  the  said  Waters, 
as  he  departed  from  the  table,  he  said,  "God  bless  ^ou  over  the 
left  shoulder." 


The  Court  order 


L  record  ti 


At  the  next  court.  Waters  w 
the  words  recited,  "so  cursii 
fined  X5.     He  i  "     " 


be  made  thereof  forthwith. 
A  true  oopie  :  Test. 

Caleb  Stanley,  Clerk, 
s  tried  for  contempt,  for  saying 
cursing  the  Court,"  and  on  verdict 
eview  of  the  Court  following,  which 
ff  trial,  the  Court  asked  counsel  of  the 
Eev,  Messrs.  Woodbridge  and  Buckingham,  the  ministers  of 
the  Hartford  churches,  as  to  the  "  common  acceptation"  of  the 
offensive  phrase.  Their  reply  constitutes  a  part  of  the  Record, 
and  is  as  follows  : — 

We  are  of  opinion  that  those  words,  said  on  the  other  side  to 
be   spoken   by  Bevell  Waters,   include  (1)  prophaneness,  by 
using  the  name  of  God,  that  is  holy,  with  such  ill  words  whereto 
it  was  joyned;   (2)  that   they   carry  great  contempt  in   them, 
arising  to  the  degree  of  an  imprecation  or  curse,  the  words  of  a 
ourae  being  the  moat  contemptible  that  can  ordinarily  be  used. 
T.  Woodbridge. 
T,  Buckingham. 
MftToh  7th,  17n5-6. 
The  former  judgment  was  affirmed  on  review. 


lyClOOglC 


340  ORIGIN   OF  THINGS   PAMILIAB, 

KICKING   TDE  BUOKET. 

The  traditioD  among  the  slang  fraternity  as  to  t!ie  origin  of 
this  phrase  is  that  "  One  Bolsover,  having  hung  himself  to  a 
beam  while  standing  on  the  bottom  of  a  piiil,  or  bucket,  kicked 
tliD  vessel  away  in  order  to  pry  into  futurity,  and  it  was  all  trp 
with  him  from  that  moment — Finis  !" 

EHMPEB. 

When  the  Roman  Catholie  religion  was  in  the  ascendant  in 
England,  the  health  of  the  Pope  was  usually  drunk  in  a  full 
glass  immediately  after  dinner — au  hon  pire  :  hence  the  woid 

ROTAt   8ATINS. 

It  was  Alphonaus,  surnamed  the  Wise,  King  of  Aragon,  who 
used  to  say,  "  That  among  so  many  things  as  are  by  men  pos- 
sessed or  pursued  in  the  course  of  their  lives,  all  the  rest  are 
baubles,  besides  old  wood  to  burn,  old  wine  to  drink,  old  friends 
to  converse  with,  and  old  books  to  read." 

DUN. 

This  word,  generally  supposed  to  be  derived  from  the  French 
donnea,  owes  its  origin,  according  to  the  British  Apollo  of  Sep- 
tember, 1708,  to  one  Joe  Dun,  a  famous  bailiff  of  Lincoln  in 
the  time  of  Henry  VII.  He  is  said  to  hare  been  so  ex- 
tremely shrewd  in  the  management  of  his  rough  business,  and 
so  dexterous  in  the  collection  of  dues,  that  his  name  became 
proverbial ;  and  whenever  a  man  refused  to  pay  his  debts,  it 
grew  into  a  prevalent  custom  to  say,  "  Why  don't  you  Dun 

HUMBUG. 

Among  the  many  issues  of  base  coin  which  from  time  to  time 
were  made  in  Ireland,  there  was  none  to  bo  compared  in  worth- 
lessneas  to  that  made  by  James  II.  at  the  Dublin  Mint.  It  was 
composed  of  any  thing  on  which  he  could  lay  his  hands,  such  as 
lead,  pewter,  copper,  and  brass,  and  so  low  was  its  intrinsic 
value  that  twenty  shillings  of  it  was    only  worth   twopence 


lyClOOglC 


OEIGIN    or  THIMOS  PAMIUAa. 


341 


sterling.  William  HI.,  a  few  dajs  after  the  battle  of  the  Boyne, 
ordered  tliat  the  crowa-piece  and  half-crown  should  he  takoQ 
as  oue  peony  and  one  half-penny  respectively.  The  soft  mixed 
metal  of  which  that  worthless  eoin  was  composed  was  known 
among  the  Irish  as  Uim  bog,  pronounced  Oom-bug,  i.e.  soft 
copper,  i.e.  worthless  money ;  and  in  the  course  of  their  deal- 
ings the  modern  use  of  the  word  hwmhug  took  its  rise,  as  in  the 
phrases,  "That's  Apiece  o/Tiimbog,"  "Don't  think  to^ass  ojf 
your  uituhog  on  me."  Hence  the  word  humhug  came  to  be 
applied  to  any  thing  that  had  a  specious  appearance  but  which 
was  in  reality  spurious. '  It  is  curious  to  note  that  the  very 
opposite  of  hvmbug,  i.e.  false  metal,  is  the  word  sterling,  which 
is  also  taken  from  a  term  applied  to  the  true  eoiDage  of  Great 
Britain,  as  sterling  coin,  sterling  worth,  &c. 

PASQUI^fADES. 

At  one  corner  of  the  Palazzo  Brasehi,  tho  last  monument  of 
Papa]  nepotism,  near  the  Piazza  Navona,  in  Rome,  stands  thp 
famous  mutilated  torso  known  as  the  Statue  of  Pasqum  It  ^i 
the  remains  of  a  work  of  art  of  considerable  merit,  found  at  this 
spot,  in  the  sixteenth  century,  and  supposed  to  represent  Ajax 
supporting  Menelaus.  It  derives  its  modern  name  from  the 
tailor  Paaquin,  who  kept  a  shop  opposite,  which  was  tho  ren- 
dezvous of  all  the  gossips  in  the  city,  and  from  which  their 
satirical  witticisms  on  the  manners  and  follies  of  the  day  ob- 
tained a  ready  oirculation. 

Misson  says  in  his  Travels  in  Italy, — The  tailor  had  precisely 
the  talent  to  head  a  regiment  of  satirical  wits,  and  had  he  had 
time  to  publish,  he  would  have  been  the  Peter  Pindar  of  his 
dayj  but  his  genius  seems  to  have  been  satisfied  to  rest  cross- 
legged  on  his  shop-board.  When  any  lampoons  or  amusing 
Ion-mots  were  current  in  Rome,  thoy  were  usually  called,  from 
bis  shop,  Pasqmnades.  After  his  death,  this  statue  of  an  an- 
cient gladiator  was  found  under  the  pavement  of  his  shop.  It 
was  soon  set  up,  and  by  universal  consent  was  inscribed  with 
Uis  name;  and  they  still  attempt  to  raise  him  from  the  dead. 


lyClOOglC 


342  ORIGIH  OS  THINGS   FAMILIAR. 

and  keep  the  cauetio  tailor  aliye,  in  the  marble  gladiator  of 

The  statue  of  Marforio,  which'  stood  near  the  arch  of  Septi- 
mus Sererua,  in  the  Forum,  was  made  the  vehicle  for  replying 
to  the  attacks  of  Paaquin ;  and  for  many  years  they  kept  up  an 
iocessaiit  fire  of  wit  and  repajtee.  When  Marforio  was  removed 
to  the  museum  in  the  capitol,  the  Pope  wished  to  remove 
Pasquin  also ;  hut  the  Duke  di  Braaclu,  to  whom  he  belongs, 
would  not  permit  it,  Adrian  VI.  attempted  to  arrest  his  career 
by  ordering  the  statue  to  be  burnt  and  thrown  into  the  Tiber; 
but  one  of  the  Pope's  friends,  Ludovico  Sussano,  saved  him,  by 
suggesting  that  his  ashes  would  turn  into  frogs,  and  eroak  more 
terribly  than  before.  It  is  said  that  his  ownei  is  compelled  to 
pay  a  fine  whenever  he  is  found  guilty  of  exhibiting  any  scan- 
dalous placards.  The  modern  Romans  seem  to  regard  Pasquin 
as  part  of  their  social  system  r  in  the  absence  of  a  free  pres.s, 
he  has  beoomo  in  some  measure  the  organ  of  public  opinion, 
and  there  is  scarcely  an  event  upon  which  he  does  not  pronounce 
judgment.  Some  of  his  sayings  are  extremely  broad  for  the 
Rtmosphere  of  Home,  but  many  of  them  are  very  witty,  and 
fully  maintain  the  character  of  his  fellow- citizens  for  satirical 
epigrams  and  repartee.  When  Meazofanti,  the  great  linguist, 
was  made  a  cardinal,  Pasquin  declared  that  it  was  a  very  pro- 
per appointment,  for  there  could  be  no  doubt  that  the  "  Tower 
of  Babel,"  "  II  torre  di  Babel,"  required  an  interpreter.  At 
the  time  of  the  first  French  occupation  of  Italy,  Pasquin  gave 
out  the  following  satirical  dialogue  : — 

I  Franoesl  eon  tntli  ladrL 
Hon  tntti — ma,  Bonaparte. 
The  Trenah  are  all  robber*. 
Nolall,  but  affoo<ipoi-(,-(or 
Not  all— but  Bonaparte.) 

Another  remarkable  saying  is  recorded  in  eouneetion  with 
thp  celebrated  bull  of  Urban  VIII.,  escommunicating  all  per- 
sons who  took  snuff  in  the  Cathedral  of  Seville.  On  the  pub- 
licitiun  uf  this  decree,  Pasquin  appropriately  quoted  the  beauti- 


lyGoogle 


ORIGIN   or  THINGS   FAMILIAR. 


in  Job, — "  Wilt  thou  break  ! 
3U  pursue  tbe  dry  stubble  ?" 

BOTTLED  ALE. 
The  hop  for  hia  profit  I  tbua  do 
It  etiengthenBth  drink  and  it  fla 
And  being  well  brewed,  long  ke] 
And  drawing  ^ide,  if  ye  draw  i 


leaf  driven  to  and  fro? 


■ureth  malt; 
t  it  will  laal^ 
ot  too  fast. 


I,  Hoa-^  ot  St  Piul  s  and  Mastei  of  West 
}  reifjii  of  Queen  Mary  i 


Vlex'ili  ler  Nes 
minster  School  ir 

.ingler  But  ('lajs  Fuller  )  while  Newell  was  catching  of  fii 
bishop  B  nner  was  catching  of  Newell  and  would  certainly 
hive  sent  liim  to  the  shambles  ha,l  not  a  good  London  mer 
chant  oonveyed  him  awiy  upoo  the  seas  Newell  wns  fishing 
upon  the  banks  of  the  Thames  when  he  rei,eived  the  first  inti 
mati  n  of  his  diQfer  whioh  waa  so  pressing  that  he  dared  not 
^0  bitk  to  hi'j  own  houie  to  mike  auj  prepirition  for  h  s 
f!i"-ht  L  ke  an  honest  angler  he  had  taken  with  him  provi 
s  m  foi  the  lay  and  when  in  the  first  year  of  England  s  dcli 
verancc  1  e  returned  to  h  a  country  and  his  old  haunts  he  re 
luembered  that  on  the  day  of  his  flight  he  had  left  a  bottle 
of  beer  in  a  safe  place  on  the  bank:  there  he  looked  for  it,  and 
"  found  it  no  bottle,  but  a  gun — such  the  sound  at  the  opening 
thereof;  and  this  (adds  Fuller,)  is  believed  {casualty  is  mo- 
ther of  more  invention  than  industry)  the  origin  of  Bottled 
Ale  in  England." 

Although  Sir  Walter  RaJeigh  was  uncKpeotedly  prevented 
from  accompanying  Sir  Humphrey  Gilbert  to  Newfoundland, 
he  eventually  proved  one  of  the  greatest  benefactors  to  his  own 
country,  by  the  introduction  of  the  potato  on  his  return  from 
America,  iu  the  year  1584.  This  root  waa  first  planted  on  Sir 
Walter's  estate  at  Youghall,  which  he  afterward  sold  to  the 
Karl  of  Cork;  but  not  having  given  sufficient  directions  to  the 
person  who  had  the  management  of  the  land,  the  latter  mistook 
the  flowers  for  the  fruit  and  most  valuable  part  of  the  plant, 


lyClOOglC 


o44  OK  0  N   0        H  NGS   FAMILIAR. 

and,  on   tas  n      h  m  ted    h  m  as  a  pernicious  exoiic. 

Some  time  a     rw    d  ng    p   h    earth,  he  found  the  roo.s 

spread  to  a  g        d  and  q  iderable  quantities;  aud 

from  thiH  stock  h  wh  e  k  ngd  m  waa  soon  after  supplied  with 
this  Taluable  p  n  wh  h  f,  ad  y  pread  throughout.  Europe 
and  North  Am  I  P         ,  in  Irish  paite^,  and  in 

Fiench  pata  d      b    ^        d     om  the  original  language 

of  Mesito,  of  which  it  is  supposed  to  be  a  native. 

Anspach's  History  of  Mw/omtdlaitd. 

TARRINO   AND   FEATHEBING. 

Anquptil,  in  hia  Eistoue  del'rance,  lb05,  haa  the  following 
passage  in  reference  to  this  mr  de  of  chastisement  — 

They  (the  two  crusading  kings,  Eichard  Coeur  de  Lion  and 
Philip  Augustas}  afterwirds  made  m  concert  the  laws  of  police 
which  should  be  obseived  in  both  their  armies  No  women 
except  washerwomen,  were  to  le  permitted  to  iccomp'inj  the 
troops.  Whoevei  killed  another  was,  according  to  tho  place 
where  the  crime  should  be  committed,  to  be  east  into  the  sea, 
or  buried  alive,  bounl  to  the  corpse  of  the  muidered  person. 
Whoever  wounded  another  wis  to  have  his  hand  cut  off,  who- 
ever struck  another  sbrald  be  plunged  three  times  into  the 
sea;  and  whoever  committed  theft  should  have  inarm  pitch 
poured  over  At.  hend,  uhith  should  thi'n  h>'  pricdeied  with 
feathen,  and  the  offender  shouU  attprwirda  be  left  aban- 
doned on  the  first  thore 

STOCKINGS. 

It  is  stated  that  Henry  the  Second,  of  France,  was  the  first 
who  wore  silk  stockings,  and  this  was  on  the  occasion  of  his 
sister's  wedding  to  the  Duke  of  Savoy,  in  1509.  Howell,  in 
his  Mihtory  of  the  World,  says  that,  in  1550,  Queen  Elizabeth 
was  presented  with  a  pair  of  black  silk  knit  stockings  by  her 
silb-woman,  Mrs.  Montague,  and  that  she  never  wore  cloth  ones 
afterward.  He  also  adds,  that  Henry  the  Eighth  wore  ordi- 
narily cloth  hose,  unless  there  came  from  Spain,  by  great 
chance,  a  pair  of  silk  stockings.     His  son,  Edward  the  Sixth, 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OF  THINGS    FAMIUAB. 


345 


was  pre'senteil  with  a  pair  of  1  ng  bpaai^h  silk  =t  i.king*  b\ 
Sir  Ihom^s  G-reaham  Hence  it  w  uld  seem  thit  kn  t 
stockings  cngimlly  came  from  ^poia  It  is  state]  that  uui 
William  Elder  an  ■ipprentioe  on  Ljodon  Bridge  seeing  at 
the  house  of  an  Italian  meii^hant  a  pair  ot  knit  stocking 
from  Mantua  t  ok  the  kint  ind  made  a  piir  exactly  1  ko  the  m 
whii,h  he  presented  to  the  Earl  jf  Pembroke  and  that  thc^ 
weie  the  fai^t  of  that  kind  worn  in  England  There  have  been 
various  ipiniona  with  respect  to  the  orij^inal  inieitionof  tie 
atookino- frame  but  it  is  now  generdly  conceded  that  it  Wdi 
invented  during  the  leign  of  Queen  Ehzabeth,  in  the  year  15'iJ, 
by  William  Lee,  M.A,,  of  St.  John's  College,  Cambridge. 
Iq  the  London  Magazine,  it  is  related  that  Mr.  Lee  was  ex- 
pelled from  the  University  for  marrying,  contrary  to  the  statutes 
of  the  college.  Being  thus  rejected,  and  ignorant  of  any  other 
means  of  subBiBtenoe,  he  was  reduced  to  the  necessity  of  living 
upon,  what  his  wife  could  earn  by  knitting  stockings,  which 
gave  a  spur  to  hia  invention  ;  and,  by  curiously  observing  the 
working  of  the  needles  in  knitting,  ho  formed  in  hia  mind  the 
model  of  the  frame.  Mr.  Lee  went  to  France,  and,  for  warit 
of  patronage  there  and  in  England,  died  of  a  broken  heart,  at 
Paris.  In  the  hall  of  Framework  Knitters'  Company,  incor- 
porated by  Charles  the  Second,  in  1663,  is  a  portrait  of  Lee, 
pointing  to  one  of  the  iron  frames,  and  discoursing  with  a 
womaD,  who  is  knitting  with  needles  and  her  fingers. 


THE   ORDER  OP   THE   GARTER. 


H  her  kne 


Alluau 


and  Wilis] 


imd  left  on  the  ground. 
When  Edward  the  Brftye,  with  true  soldier-Uka  spirit. 
Cried,  "  The  garter  is  minB ;  'tia  the  order  of  merit : 
The  first  knightB  in  my  oourt  shall  be  happy  to  wear — 
Proud  distinotion ! — the  garter  that  fen  from  the  fair; 


While 
Shall  then 


5old— ' 

ibed,  '  III  to  him  that  thinka  ill  I' 


lyClOOglC 


346  ORIGIN   or   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 

DRINKING   HEALTHS. 

The  driDkingof  healths  originated  during  the  Danish  occn 
pation  of  Britain.  The  Daces  fre<]uently  stahhod  Englishmen 
while  in  the  act  of  drinking,  and  it  finallj  became  necessary 
for  the  English,  in  view  of  the  oonsUnt  repetition  of  this 
dastardly  mode  of  aaaasai nation,  to  enter  into  a  compact  to  be 
mutual  pledges  of  security  for  each  other's  health  and  pre- 
servation. Hence  the  custom  of  pledging  and  drinking 
healths. 

A   FEATHEE  IN  ONE'S   CAP. 

In  the  Lansdowno  MS.,  British  Miiseum,  is  a  Description  of 
Hungary  in  1599,  in  which  the  writer  says  of  the  inhabitants, 
"  It  hath  been  an  antient  custam  among  them  that  none  should 
wear  a  fether  but  he  who  had  killed  a  Turk,  to  whom  onlie  y' 
was  lawful  to  shew  the  number  of  his  slaine  enemjs  by  the 
number  of  fetters  in  his  cappe." 

THE   WORD  BOOK. 

Before  paper  came  into  general  use,  our  Teutonic  forefathers 
wrote  their  letters,  calendars,  and  accounts  on  wood.  The  Boc, 
or  beech,  being  close-grained  aad  plentiful  in  M^orthern  Europe, 
was  generally  employed  for  the  purpose;  and  hence  the  word 

■     NINE   TAILORS   MAKE   A    MAN. 

The  following  humorous  account  of  the  origin  of  this  saying 
is  from  The  British  Apollo.  "It  happened  ('tis  no  great  mat^ 
t«r  in  what  year)  that  eight  tailors,  having  finished  considera- 
ble pieces  of  work  at  the  house  of  a  certain  peraon  of  quality, 
(whose  name  authors  have  thought  fit  to  conceal,)  and  receivKd 
all  the  money  due  for  the  same,  a  virago  seivant-maid  of  the 
hoQse,  observing  them  to  be  but  slender-built  animals,  and  in 
their  mathomatioal  postures  on  their  shop-board  appearing  but  so 
many  pieces  of  men,  resolved  to  encounter  and  pillage  them  on 
the  road.     The  better  to  compass  her  design,  ^he  procured  a 


lyClOOglC 


OEIGIN   OP   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 


347 


vi^rj  terrible  great  blaek  pudding,  wliloli,  having  waylaid  thoin, 
she  presented  at  the  breast  of  the  foremost.  Thej,  miatakiug 
ihis  prop  of  life  for  au  instrument  of  death,  at  least  a  blunder- 
buss, readily  yielded  up  their  moneyj  but  she,  not  contented 
with  that,  severely  disoiplined  them  with  a  cudgel  she  carried 
in  the  other  hand,  all  which  they  bore  with  a  philosophical  re- 
signation. Thas,  eight,  not  being  able  to  deal  with  one  woman, 
by  consequence  oould  not  make  a  man;  oa  which  account  a 
ninth  is  added.  "Tis  the  opinion  of  our  curious  virtuosos,  that 
their  want  of  courage  ariseth  from  their  immoderate  eating  of 
cucumbers,  which  too  much  refrigerates  their  blood.  However, 
to  their  eternal  honor  be  it  spoken,  they  have  often  been  known 
to  encounter  a  sort  of  cannibals,  to  whose  assaults  they  are  often 
subject,  not  fictitious,  but  real  man-eaters,  and  that  with  a 
lanee  but  two  inches  long;  nay,  and  although  they  go  armed 
no  further  than  their  middle  finger." 

An  earlier  authority  than  the  preceding  may  be  found  in  a 
note  in  Democritus  m  London)  with  the  Mad  I^anks  and 
Comical  Oonceit&  of  Motley  and  Robin  Goodfellow,  in  which 
tLe  following  version  of  the  origin  of  the  saying  is  given.  It 
is  dated  1682  :— 

a  proverb  whloi.  has  bean  of  old. 


Aodm 


'0  Uken 


To  the  discrodit  of  Uie  Taylor's  Triuje : 

Nine  Tayiara  go  lo  maks  ^p  a  man,  Vhej  aa.\i; 

But  for  thsir  credit  I'll  unriddlo  it  f  jo: 

A  draper  onoe  foil  into  porertie, 

Hine  TBylora  joined  their  purees  together  then, 

To  set  bim  up,  and  maka  him  a  man  again. 

VIZ. 

The  contraction  viz.  affords  a  curious  instanoe  of  the  univer- 
Bality  of  arbitrary  signs.  There  are  few  people  now  who  do  not 
readily  comprehend  the  meaning  of  that  useful  particle, — a  cer- 
tain publican  excepted,  who,  being  furnished  with  a  list  of  the 
requirements  of  a  festival  in  which  the  word  appeared,  apolo- 
gized for  the  omission  of  one  of  the  items  enumerated  r  he  in- 
formed the  company  that  bo  had  inquired  throughout  the  town 


lyClOOglC 


348  ORIGIN   OF   THINOS  FAMILIAR. 

for  some  viz.,  but  he  had  not  been  able  to  procure  it.  lie  was, 
however,  readily  excused  for  his  inability  to  do  ao.  Vig. 
beiflg  a  contraction  of  videlicet,  the  torininaj  sign  3  was  never 
intended  to  represent  the  letter  "  z,"  but  was  simply  a  mark  or 
sign  of  abbreviation.  It  is  now  always  written  and  expressed 
as  a  "  b"  and  will  doubtless  continue  to  be  so. 


i   OP   THE   CROSS. 

The  mark  which  persons  who  are  unable  to  write  are  required  to 
maie  instead  of  their  signatures,  is  in  the  form  of  a  cross;  and  this 
practice,  having  formerly  been  followed  by  kings  and  nobles,  is 
constantly  referred  to  as  an  iDatauce  of  the  deplorable  ignorance 
of  ancient  times.  This  signature  is  not,  however,  iavariably  a 
proof  of  such  ignorance.  Anoiently'the  use  of  the  mark  was  not 
confined  to  illiterate  persona;  for  among  the  Saxons  the  mark 
of  the  cross,  as  an  attestation  of  the  good  faith  of  the  persons 
signing,  was  required  to  be  attached  to  the  signature  of  those 
who  could  write,  as  well  as  to  stand  in  the  place  of  the  signa- 
ture of  those  who  could  not  write.  In  those  times,  if  a  man 
could  write,  or  even  read,  his  knowledge  was  considered  proof 
presumptive  that  he  was  in  holy  orders.  The  olericus,  or  clerk 
was  synonymous  with  penman ;  and  the  laity,  or  people  who 
were  not  clerks,  did  not  feel  any  urgent  necessity  for  the  use 
of  letters.  The  ancient  nse  of  th'e  cross  was  therefore  uni- 
versal, alike  by  those  who  could  and  those  who  could  not  write : 
it  was,  indeed,  the  symbol  of  an  oath,  from  its  sacred  associa- 
tions, as  well  as  the  mark  generally  adopted.  Hence  the  origin 
of  the  expression  "God  save  the  mark,"  as  a  form  of  ejacula- 
tion approaching  the  character  of  an  oath. 

THE   TURKISH  CRESCENT. 

When  Philip  of  Maeedon  approaehed  by  night  with  bis 
troops  to  scale  the  walls  of  Byzantium,  the  mom.  shone  out  and 
discovered  his  design  to  the  besieged,  who  repulsed  him.  The 
crescent  was  afterwards  adopted  as  the  favorite  badge  of  the 
city.     When  the  Turks  took  Byzantium,  they  found  the  cres- 


lyClOOglC 


J   or   THINGS   FAI 


349 


cent,  in  every  public  place,  and,  believing  it  to  possess  some 
magical  power,  adopted  it  themselves. 

The  origin  of  the  crescent  as  a  religious  embleai  is  anterior 
to  the  time  of  Philip  of  Maoedon,  dating,  in  fact,  from  tlie  very 
beginning  of  history. 


POSTPAID   I 

M.  Pinon  tells  us  that  the  idea  of  a  postpaid  envelope  ori- 
ginated early  in  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV.,  with  M,  de  Valfyer, 
who,  in  1653,  established  (with  royal  approbation)  a  private 
penny-post,  placing  boxes  at  the  oornera  of  the  streets  for 
the  reception  of  letters  wrapped  up  in  envelopes,  which  were 
to  be  bought  at  offices  established  for  that  purpose.  M.  de 
Valfyer  also  had  printed  certain  forms  of  hillets,  or  notes, 
applicable  to  the  ordinary  business  among  the  inhabitants  of 
great  towns,  with  blanks,  which  were  to  be  filled  up  by  the  pen 
with  such  special  matter  as  might  complete  the  writer's  object. 
One  of  these  hili^te  has  been  preserved  to  our  times  by  a  plea- 
sant misapplication  of  it.  PSlisson  (Mdme,  de  Sevign^'s  friend, 
and  the  object  of  the  bon  mot  that  "he  abused  the  privilege 
which  men  have  of  being  ugly")  was  aroused  at  this  kind  of 
skeleton  correspondence;  and  under  the  affected  name  of  Pi- 
sandre,  (according  to  the  pedantic  fashion  of  the  day,)  he  filled 
up  and  addressed  one  of  these  forms  to  the  celebrated  JWade- 
moiselle  de  Scuderie,  in  her  jiseudonyine  of  Sappho.  This 
strange  hillef-doux  has  happened,  from  the  celebrity  of  the  par- 
ties, to  be  preserved,  and  it  is  still  extant, — one  of  the  oldest, 
it  is  presumed,  of  penny-post  letters,  and  a  curious  example  of 
a  prepaying  envelope,  a  new  proof  of  the  adage  that  "  there 
is  nothing  new  under  the  sun." 

OLD   HTJNDEED. 

The  history  of  this  old  psalm-tune,  which  almost  every  one 
bas  been  accustomed  to  hear  ever  sinoe  he  can  remember,  is 
the  subject  of  a  work  recently  written  by  an  English  clergy- 
man     Luther  has  generally  been  considered  the  author  of 


lyClOOglC 


850 


ORIGIN   OF   TIIIXQS 


''01dHuQi]rod,"but  it  his  beenfiettj  aatisfietoiily  ascertained 
that  it  was  composed  m  the  aixleeQth  century,  and  certainly 
previous  to  1546,  by  William  Franc,  a  Gferman  In  the  CDur  e 
of  tune  its  arrangement  has  uadergone  repeated  alteritions 
and  it  IS  Bald  that  as  it  originally  ippeared,  it  was  of  a  mire 
y     h    a  h  n   at  present      Many  of  these   alterations 

a     b    a    a  preserved  ind  miy  be  seen  by  letbrcnce  I 

M  E    y    piedia  of  Munf      The  oldest  copy  of  it  th  it 

h      b    n  p  d  was  published  la  Fiance,  m  Marot  anl 

E    asPam       5  0.     Subjoined  is  a  faithful  transcript  oi  i  s 
n     a    p    ti       0  the  134tb  Psilm     It  contrasts  as  hroidly 
w  h    h    p  y  e  of  muaioal  notafioa  as  does  the  Engli  h 

f     h  w  h    hat  of  Noah  Webster. 


LA   MAKSEHLAISE, 

Rouget  de  Lisle  was  a  young  ofSeer  of  engineers  at  Stras- 
bourg. He  was  born  aX  Lons-le- Saulnier,'ui  the  Jura  a  country 
of  reverie  and  energy,  as  mountains  commonly  are.  He  re- 
lieved the  tediousness  of  a  garrison-life  by  writing  verses  and 
indulging  a  love  of  music.  He  was  a  frequent  visitor  at  the 
house  of  the  Baron  de  Diedrioh,  a  noble  Alsaoian  of  the  consti- 
tutional party,  the  Mayor  of  Strasbourg.  The  family  loved  the 
young  of&cer,  and  gave  new  inspiration  to  his  heart  in  its  at- 
tachment to  music  and  poetry,  and  the  ladies  were  in  the  habit 
of  assisting,  by  their  performances,  the  early  conceptions  of  his 
genius.  A  famine  prevailed  at  Strasbourg  in  the  winter  of 
1792,     The  house  of  Diedrioh  was  rich  at  the  beginning  of  the 


lyGoogle 


ORIGIN   OF   THINGS   FAMILIAR.  351 

revolution,  but  had  dow  become  poor  under  the  oalainitiea  and 
Baerifloes  of  the  time.  Its  frugal  table  had  always  a  hospitable 
place  for  Eouget  de  Lisle.  He  was  there  morning  and  even- 
ing as  a  son  aud  brother.  One  day,  when  only  some  slices  of 
ham  smoked  upon  the  table,  with  a  supply  of  oamp-bread,  Die- 
drioh  said  to  De  Lisle,  in  sad  serenity,  "Plenty  is  not  found 
at  our  meals.  But  no  matter ;  enthusiasm  is  not  wanting  at 
our  ei,vic  festivals,  and  our  soldiers'  hearts  are  full  of  courage. 
W  e  h  i\  e  one  more  bottle  of  Ehine  wine  in  the  cellar.  Let  us 
bave  it  and  we'll  drink  to  liberty  and  the  country.  Strasbourg 
will  soon  have  a  patriotic  file,  and  De  Lisle  must  draw  from 
these  hst  drops  one  of  his  hymns  that  will  carry  his  own  ardent 
feelings  to  the  soul  of  the  people."  The  young  ladies  applauded 
the  puposal.  They  brought  the  wine,  and  continued  to  fill  the 
glasses  of  Diedrich  and  the  young  officer  until  the  bottle  was 
empty  The  night  was  cold.  De  Lislo's  bead  and  heart  were 
warm  He  found  hia  way  to  his  lodgings,  entered  his  solitary 
chamber  and  sought  for  inspiration  at  one  moment  in  the  pal- 
pitations of  his  citizen's  heart,  and  at  another  by  touching,  as 
an  artist,  the  keys  of  his  instrument,  and  striking  out  aller- 
nately  portions  of  an  air  and  giving  utterance  to  poetio 
thoughts  He  did  not  himself  know  which  came  first ;  it  was 
impossible  for  him  to  separate  the  poetry  from  the  music,  or  the 
sentiment  from  the  words  in  which  it  was  clothed.  He  sang 
altogLther  and  wrote  nothing.  In  this  state  of  lofty  inspira- 
tion be  went  to  sleep  with  his  head  upon  the  instrument.  The 
chants  of  the  aight  came  upon  him  in  the  morning  like  the 
faint  impiessions  of  a  dream.  Ho  wrote  down  the  words,  made 
the  notes  of  the  music,  and  ran  to  Diedrich' s.  He  found  him 
in  the  gaiden  digging  winter  lettuces.  The  wife  of  the  patriot 
major  was  not  jet  up.  Diedrich  awoke  her.  They  called  to- 
gether <-oine  friends,  who  were,  like  themsolves,  passionately 
fond  c€  music,  and  able  to  execute  the  compositions  of  De  Lisle 
One  of  the  young  ladies  pkyed,  and  Rouget  sang.  At  the  first 
stanza,  the  countenaneea  of  the  company  grew  pale ;  at  the 
second,  tears  flowed  abundantly;  at  the  last,  a  delirium  of  en- 


lyGoogle 


352  ORIGIN   01"  THINGS   FAMILIAR. 

thusiasRi  broke  fortli.  Diedrioh,  hia  wife,  and  the  joiiag  offi- 
cer east  thomaelves  into  each  others'  arms.  The  hymn  of  the 
nation  was  found.  Alas !  it  was  destined  to  become  a  hymn  of 
terror.  The  unhappy  Diedrieh  a  few  months  afterwards  marched 
to  the  scaffold  at  the  sound  of  the  notes  first  nttered  at  his  hearth, 
from  the  heart  of  his  friend  and  the  voice  of  his  wife. 

The  new  song,  executed  some  dajs  afterwards  publicly  at 
Strasbourg,  flew  from  town  to  town  through  all  the  orchestras. 
Marseilles  adopted  it  to  be  sung  at  the  opening  and  adjourn- 
ment of  the  clubs.  Henoe  it  took  the  name  of  the  MarseiUaise 
Hymn.  The  old  mother  of  De  Lisle,  a  loyalist  and  a  religious 
person,  alarmed  at  the  reverberation  of  her  son's  name,  wrote 
to  him,  "What  is  the  meaning  of  this  revolutionary  hymn, 
sung  by  hordes  of  robbers  who  pass  all  over  France,  with  which 
our  name  is  mixed  up?"  De  Lisle  himself,  proscribed  as  a 
Federalist,  heard  its  re-echo  upon  his  eais  as  a  threat  of  death 
as  he  fled  among  the  paths  of  Jura.  "What  is  this  song 
called?"  he  inquired  of  his  guide.  "The  JfarseiV^awe,"  re- 
plied the  peasant.     It  was  with  difficulty  that  he  escaped. 

The  "Marseillaise"  waa  the  liquid  fire  of  the  revolution.  It 
distilled  into  the  senses  and  the  soul  of  the  people  the  frenzy 
of  battle.  Its  notes  floated  like  an  ensign,  dipped  in  warm 
blood  over  a  fleld  of  combat.  Glory  and  orime,  victory  and 
death,  seemed  interwoven  in  its  strains.  It  was  the  song  of 
patriotism ;  but  it  was  the  signal  of  fury.  It  accompanied  war- 
riors to  the  field  and  victims  to  the  scaffold ! 

There  is  no  national  air  that  will  compare  with  the  Marseil- 
laise in  sublimity  and  power :  it  embraces  the  soft  cadences  full 
of  the  peasant's  home,  and  the  stormy  clangor  of  silver  and 
steel  when  an  empire  ia  overthrown;  it  endears  the  memory 
of  the  vine-dresser's  cottage,  and  makes  the  Frenchman,  in  his 
esile,  cry,  "  La  belle  France !"  forgetful  of  the  sword,  and  torch, 
and  guillotine,  which  have  made  his  country  a  spectre  of  blood 
in  the  eyes  of  nations.  Nor  can  the  foreigner  listen  to  it,  sung 
by  a  company  of  esiles,  or  executed  'b'^  a  band  of  musioiaus, 
without  feeling  that  it  is  the  pibroch  of  battle  and  war. 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OP   THTNGB    FAMILIAR. 


YANKEE   DOODLE. 


The  good  tha  Rhine-aong  doc 
Or  tblne,  Marseilles!  to  Fr 

Xfae  good  th;  anthemed  burn 
"  God  aaTfl  tbo  Queen !"  to 

A  homo-born  Messing,  Nature 


Tbj  words  and  rousiij,  Yahkeb  Doodle  !— do. — Hallbck. 

Tbe  origin  of  Yamkee  Doodle  is  by  ao  means  so  clear  as 
Amerioaa  antiquaries  desire.  The  statement  tliat  the  air  was 
composed  bj  Dr.  Shackburg,  in  1755,  when  the  colonial  troops 
united  with  the  British  regulars  near  Albany,  preparatory  to 
the  attack  on  the  French  posts  of  Niagara  and  Fronteaao,  and 
that  it  was  produced  in  derision  of  the  old-fashioned  equipments 
of  the  provincial  soldiers  as  oontraatec!  with  the  neat  and  or- 
derly appointments  of  the  regulars,  was  published  some  years 
ago  in  a  musical  magazine  printed  in  Boston.  The  account 
there  given  as  to  the  origin  of  the  song  is  this : — During  the 
ittaeks  upin  the  Fi each  outposts  in  1755,  in  America,  Governor 
Shirley  and  General  Jackson  led  the  force  directed  against  the 
enemy  lyin^  at  Niagara  and  Frontenac.  In  the  early  part  of 
June  whilit  those  troops  were  stationed  on  the  banks  of  the 
Hudsm  neir  Albiny,  the  descendants  of  the  "Pilgrim  fathers" 
flocked  in  from  the  Eastern  provinces.  Never  was  seen  such  a 
motley  regiment  a.*  took  up  its  position  on  the  left  wing  of 
the  British  aimy  The  band  played  music  as  antiquated  and' 
rulrS  as  their  uniforms;  ofEoers  and  privates  had  adopted  regi- 
mentals lach  nun  after  Ma  own  fashion;  one  wore  a  flowing, 
wig  whil  his  neighbor  rejoiced  in  hair  cropped  closely  to  the 
head ,  this  me  had  a  coat  with  wonderful  long  skirts,  his  fel- 
low marched  without  his  upper  garment;  various  as  the  colors 
of  the  rainbow  were  the  clothes  worn  hy  the  gallant  band.  It 
so  happened  that  there  was  a  certain  Dr.  Shackburg,  wit,  musi- 
cian, and  surgeon,  and  one  evening  after  mess  he  produced  a 
tune,  which  he  earnestly  commended,  as  a  well-known  piece  of 
military  music,  to  the  officers  of  the  militia.     The  joke  sue- 


lyGoogle 


354  ORIGIN   OF  THINGS    FAMILIAR. 

i^eeded,  and  Yankee  Doodle  waa  hailed  bj  acclamation  "  their 

This  account  is  somewhat  apocrvphal,  as  there  is  no  song: 
the  tune  in  the  United  States  is  a  march;  there  are  no  words 
to  it  of  a  national  eharaetor.     The  only  wotda  ever  affixed  to 
the  air  in  this  country  is  the  following  doggerel  quatrain ; — 
Yankeo  Doodle  came  to  town 

Upon  a  litllo  pooyi 
He  stuck  a  featber  in  Lie  bat 
And  oalled  it  mooaroni. 

It  has  been  asserted  by  English  writers  that  the  air  and  words 
of  these  lines  are  as  old  as  Cromwell's  time.  The  only  altera- 
tion is  in  making  Yankee  Boodle  of  what  was  Nanhee  Doodle. 
It  is  asserted  that  the  tune  will  be  found  in  the  MmkalAnli- 
quilies  of  England,  and  that  Nankee  Doodle  was  intended  to 
apply  to  Cromwell,  and  the  other  lines  were  des^ned  to  "  allude 
to  his  going  into  Oxford  with  a  single  plume,  fastened  in  a  knot 
called  a  macaroni."  The  tune  was  known  in  New  England  be- 
fore the  Revolution  as  Lydia  Fuher's  Jig,  a  name  derived 
from  a  famous  lady  of  easy  virtue  in  the  reign  of  Charles  II., 
5  nursery- 


and   which 

has 

been    perp 

tuated    in  the 

rhyme 

Lucy  LoQliet 
Kittj  Fish 

Not  a  bit  of  n 
Only  bindi 

oat  hsr  pocliet, 
r  found  it; 

g  round  it. 

Thp 

regulars 

in  Boston  ir 

1775  and  1776 

sung\ 

to  the  same  air 

— 

Yanliee  Doodl 

e  came  to  town. 

For  to  buy  afireloolt; 

And  so  we  will  Jobn  Haneoek,  Ac. 

The  manner  in  which  the  tune  carae  to  be  adopted  by  the 
Americans,  is  shown  in  the  following  letter  of  the  Kov.  W.  G-or- 
don.  Describing  the  battles  of  Lexington  and  Concord,  before 
■  alluded  to,  he  says : — 

The  brigade  under  Lord  Percy  marched  out  (of  Boston) 


lyClOOglC 


!   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 


355 


playing,  by  way  of  contempt,  Yankee  Doodle  :  tiej  were  afte^ 
wards  told  ttat  they  had  hoen  made  to  dancff  to  it. 

It  is  most  liltely  that  Yankee  Doodle  was  originally  derived 
from  Holland.  A  song  with  the  followiug  burden  has  long 
been  in  use  among"  the  laborers  who,  in  the  time  of  harvest, 
migrate  from  Q-ermany  to  the  Low  Countries,  where  they  re- 
ceive for  their  work  aa  much  buttormiiU  as  they  can  drink,  and 
a  tenth  of  the  grain  secured  by  their  exertions ; — 


Botcrmilk  und  Tanlber. 

That  is,  buttermilk  and  a  tenth. 

TnE  AMKRICAN   TLAG. 

A  resolutioQ  was  introduced  in  the  American  Congress,  June 
13,  1777,  "  That  the  flag  of  the  thirteen  United  States  be 
thirteen  stripes,  alternately  red  and  vh'te  that  the  un*  n  be 
thirteen  stars,  white  io  a  blue  field  rep  esent  no"  a  new  on  tel 
lation."  There  is  a  striking  c  o  lenoe  between  tl  e  le.  n 
of  our  flag  and  the  arms  of  Gone  1  ^  h  n^ton  wh  eh  oo 
sisted  of  three  stars  in  the  upper  port  n  and  th  ee  ha  s  ru 
ning  across  the  eaeutoheon.  It  is  tho  ^1 1  by  so  e  hat  th 
flag  was  derived  from  this  herald  e  le  H  story     t  rns  ua 

that  several  flags  were  used  by  tl  Yank  es  befo  e  he  p  e^ent 
national  one  was  adopted.  In  M  eh  17  5  a  Un  oo  fia^  w  b 
a  red  field  was  hoisted  in  New  lot,  bea  ng  the  nsc  pi  on  on 
oao  side  of  "  George  Eex  and  the  liberties  of  America,"  and 
upon  the  reverse,  "No  Popory."  General  Israel  Putnam  raised 
on  Prospect  Hill,  July  18,  1775,  a  flag  bearing  on  one  side 
the  motto  of  the  commonwealth  of  Massachusetts,  "  Qid  trans- 
tuHt  susiCnet,"  on  the  other,  "An  appeal  to  Heaven," — an  ap- 
peal well  taken  and  amply  sustained.  In  October,  1775,  (be 
floating  batteries  of  Boston  bore  a  flag  with  the  latter  motto, 
and  a  pine-tree  upon  a  white  field,  with  the  Maaaachusetta 
emblem.     Some  of  the  colonies  used    in  1775  a  flag  with  a 


lyGoogle 


356  ORIGIN   OF   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 

rattlesnake  coiled  as  if  about  to  strike,  and  the  motto  "  Don't 
tread  on  me."  Oh  January  18,  1776,  the  grand  Union  flag 
of  the  stars  and  stripes  was  raised  on  the  heights  near  Boston; 
aod  it  is  said  that  some  of  the  regulars  made  the  great  mistake 
of  supposing  it  was  a  token  of  submission  to  the  king,  whose 
speech  had  just  been  sent  to  the  Americans,  The  British  Re- 
gister of  1776  says,  "They  [the  rebels]  barnt  the  king's 
speech,  and  changed  their  colors  from  a  plain  red  ground  to  a 
flag  with  thirteen  stripes,  as  a  symbol  of  the  number  and  union 
of  the  colonies."  A  letter  from  Boston,  published  in  the  I'enn- 
aylvania  Gaxetl-e,  in  1776,  says,  "  The  Union  fiag  was  raised 
ou  the  2d,  a  corapHment  to  the  United  Oolonies."  These  vari- 
ous flags,  the  Pine-Tree,  the  Rattlesnake,  and  the  Stripes,  were 
used  aocordinfi  to  the  tastes  of  the  patriots,  until  July,  1777, 
when  the  Uuo  un  on  of  the  sta-s  was  aided  to  the  tup  s  and 
the  flag  established  by  law  At  first  a  stripe  was  added  f  r 
eath  new  State ,  but  the  flag  became  too  large  ind  Oousjre^s 
leduced  the  stripts  to  the  ori^mal  thirteen    and  now  tl  e  stars 

re  made  to  e  iresponJ  in  number  with  the  States  No  one 
who  hvp'!   under  the   protection  of  the  Stars  and  Stripes  w  11 

leoy  thU  the  American  flag  is  oie  of  tie  ii  ost  beautiful 
th'it  floits  upon  any  land  or  sei  Its  pioportions  ire  ppr 
tcct  when  t  is  [  roperiy  made  — o  le  h'llf  as  bi  Dad  as  it  is  Ion 
The  fiist  stripe  at  the  t  p  is  red  the  next  white  and  these 
(,  1  rs  alteinate  n  \k\ny  the  la^t  st  pp  red  The  blue  field  tir 
the  sta-s  13  the  width  and  square  ot  the  first  se\en  stripes  tiz 
four  red  and  three  white.  The  colors  of  the  American  flag  are 
in  beautiful  relief,  and  it  is  altogether  a  splendid  national  em- 
blem.    Long  may  it  wave  untarnished  ! 

EROTHEK   JONATHAN. 

The  origin  of  this  terra,  as  applied  to  the  United  States,  is  as 
follows..  When  General  Washington,  after  being  appointed 
commander  of  the  army  of  the  Kevolutionary  War,  went  to 
Massachusetts  to  organize  it,  he  found  a  great  want  of  ammu- 
nition  and  other  meaus  of  defence;  and  on  one  occasion  it 


lyClOOglC 


'   TillNGS   FAMILIAR. 


357 


aeemed  that  no  means  couM  be  devised  for  the  nccessarj  safety. 
Jooathan  Trumbull,  tte  elder,  was  tlion  Governor  of  the  State 
of  Connecticut  i  and  tho  general,  placing  tbe  greatest  reliance 
on  his  excellency's  judgment,  remarked,  "We  must  consult 
Brother  Jonathan  on  the  subject."  Tbe  general  did  so,  and 
tbe  governor  was  successful  in  supplying  many  of  the  wants 
of  tbe  army ;  and  thenceforward,  when  diiKuultics  arose,  and  the 
army  was  spread  over  tho  country,  it  became  a  by-phrase,  "We 
must  consult  Brother  Jonathan ;"  and  the  name  has  now  become 
a  designation  for  the  whole  country,  as  John  Bull  has  for 
Bnglaud.  ^ 

UNCLE  SAM. 
Immediately  after  the  declaration  of  war  with  England,  in  1812, 
Elbert  Anderson,  of  New  York,  then  a  contractor,  visited  Troy, 
where  he  purchased  a  large  quantity  of  provisions.  The  in- 
spectors of  the  articles  at  that  place  were  Ebenezer  and  Samuel 
Wilson.  The  latter  gentleman  (universally  known  aa  "Uncle 
Sam")  generally  superintended  in  person  a  large  number  of 
workmen,  who,  on  this  ooeaaion,  were  employed  in  overhauling 
the  provisions  purchased  by  tho  coutraotor.  Tho  easka  were 
marked  "E.  A,— U.  8."  Their  inspection  fell  to  the  lot  of  a 
.facetious  fellow,  who,  on  being  asked  the  meaning  of  the  mark, 
said  he  did  not  know,  unless  it  meant  Elbert  Anderson  and 
Uncle  Sam,  alluding  to  Uncle  Sam  Wihctn.  The  joke  took 
among  the  workmen,  and  passed  currently;  and  "UneleSam," 
when  present,  was  often  rallied  by  them  c 
tent  of  his 


■rUE  DOLLAR   MARK,  f. 

Writers  are  not  agreed  as  to  the  derivation  of  this  sign  to 
represent  dollars.  Some  say  that  it  comes  from  the  letters  U. 
S.,  which,  after  tho  adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution,  were 
prefixed  to  the  Federal  currency,  and  which  afterwards,  in  the 
hurry  of  writing,  were  run  into  one  another,  the  U  being  made 
first  and  the  S  over  it.  Others  say  that  it  is  derived  from  the 
contraction  of  the  Spanish  word  pesos,  dollars ;  others,  from  tbe 


lyClOOglC 


358  ORIGIN    OP   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 

Spanish  yiisrto,  hard, — to  distiaguvah  silver  from  paper  money. 
The  more  plausible  esplanation  is,  that  it  is  a  modifioatioa  of 
the  figure  8,  and  denotes  a  piece  of  eight  reals,  or,  as  the  dol- 
lar was  formerly  called,  a  piece  of  eight.  It  was  then  desig- 
nated by  the  figures  |. 

ORIGIN   OF   VABIOUS  INVENTIONS   AND    CUSTOMS. 

The  Saxons  first  introduced  arohery  in  the  time  of  Vortiqern 


Th     N    m         b 

E       dn 

b  w  wh    h  b  1 


b         h  Th      to       h  m    li 

htsp  hb  whdff  fig  d 

h    h        n    h    C       d 
Th    ti  o        J  d  m     w-is     tab    h      by 

Charles  VII.  of  France,  in  1445.  Previous  to  that  time  the 
iing  had  depended  upon  his  nobles  for  contingents  in  time  of 
war.  A  standing  army  was  first  established  in  England  in 
1638,  by  Charles  I.,  bat  it  W-is  declared  illegal,  as  well  as  the 
organization  of  the  royal  guards,  in  1769.  Tho  first  permanent 
military  band  instituted  in  England  was  the  yeomen  of  the 
guards,  established  in  1486. 

Guns  were  invented  by  Swartz.  a  German,  about  1378,  and 
brought  into  use  by  the  Venetians,  in  1383j     Gannon  were  in- 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN    OF  THIMGS   FAMILIAR. 


359 


vented  at  an  anterior  date  :  at  Ambarg  may  still  be  seen  a  pioee 
of  ordnance  inscribed  1303.  They  were  first  used  at  the  battle 
of  Cressy  in  1346.  In  England,  thej  were  first  useJ  at  the 
eiege  of  Berwick,  in  1105,  It  was  not  until  1544,  however, 
that  they  were  cast  in  England.  They  were  employed  on  ship- 
board by  the  Venetians  in  1539,  and  were  in  use  among  the 
Turks  about  the  same  time.  An  artillery  company  was  insti- 
tuted in  England  for  weekly  military  exercises  in  IGIO. 

Dating  from  the  Christian  Bra  was  commenced  in  Italy  in 
525,  and  in  England  in  816. 

Pliny  gives  the  origin  of  gla^s-making  thus.  As  some  mer- 
chants were  carrying  nitre,  they  stopped  near  a  river  issuing 
from  Mount  Garmel.  Not  readily  finding  stones  to  rest  their 
kettles  on,  they  used  some  pieces  of  nitre  for  that  purpose ;  the 
fire  gradually  dissolving  the  nitre,  it  mixed  with  the  sand,  and 
a  transparent  matter  flowed,  whioh,  in  fact,  was  glass. 

Insurance  of  ships  was  first  practised  in  the  I'eign  of  Csesar, 
in  45.  It  was  a  general  custom  in  Europe  in  1494.  Insurancc- 
ofEces  were  first  established  in  London  in  1667. 

Astronomy  was  first  studied  by  the  Moors,  and  was  intro- 
duced by  them  into  Europe  in  1201.  The  rapid  progress  of 
modern  astronomy  dates  from  the  time  of  Copernicus.  Books 
of  astronomy  and  geometry  were  destroyed,  as  infected  with 
magic,  in  England,  under  the  reign  of  Edward  VI.,  in  1552.    - 

Banks  were  first  established  by  the  Lombard  Jews,  in  Italy. 
The  name  is  derived  from  banco,  a  term  applied  to  the  benches 
erected  in  the  market-places  for  the  exchanges  of  money,  &c. 
The  first  public  bank  was  at  Venice,  in  1550.  The  Bank  of 
England  was  established  in  1693.  In  1696  its  notes  were  at 
twenty  per  cent,  discount. 

The  invenrion  of  bells  is  attributed  to  Paulinus,  Bishop  of 
Nola,  in  Campania,  about  the  year  400.  Tbey  were  originally  in- 
troduced into  ohuruhes  as  a  defence  against  thunder  and  light- 
ning. They  were  first  hung  up  in  England,  at  Grojland  Abbey, 
Lincolnshire,  in  945.  In  the  eleventh  century  and  later,  it 
was  the  custom  to  baptize  them  in  churches  before  tbey  were 


lyClOOglC 


360  ORIGIN   or   THINGS  FAMILIAR. 

used.  The  curfew-beli  was  established  in  1068.  It  was  rung 
at  eight  o'elook  in  the  evening,  when  people  were  obliged  to 
put  out  their  fire  and  candle.  The  cugtoiu  was  abolished  in 
1100.  Chimes,  or  musical  bells,  were  invented  at  Alost,  in 
Beldam,  1487.  Bellmen  were  appointed  in  London,  in  1556, 
to  ring  the  hells  at  night,  and  cry,  "  Take  care  of  your  fire  and 
candle,  be  charitable  to  the  poor,  and  pray  for  the  dead," 

How  many  are  awai'e  of  the  ori<-in  of  the  word  "  boo  '"  uied 
t    f  ^h         h  Id  It  pt        f  B  h     h  1 

fi        G    h  1  th  fOd        h  t         fwh 


B    kk    I        w      fl    t           d      d 

t    E     1     d  f    ni  Italj 

by  P    1          1509      It  w      a         d  f 

m       y  t  m    f    Ig  hn 

p  hi   h  d  by  B    ^       t  V 

N  t          p  11     w        fi    t    IP      ted 

by  th     F  th  r^    f  th 

Ch     t       Ch      h  t    m  L          n    t 

f    h        ts        ra 

f  m    tyrs        1     fi    t       t    y 

Th     dm       t    t         fth       th 

1                 f  h    h      t 

1    ty      S      E     d               11      S 

h     &    p  1    W 

hrs         d       52b      Th        h  w     fi 

d          t      d       J  d      1 

p         d    g          E  gl     d  by  Ih     S 

60n      Th           1 

S    h  Ip  m    Uod        d     II 

1  d  d              h       H 

15  0 

Signals  to  bo  used  at  sea  were  flist  contrived  by  James  II., 
when  he  was  Duke  of  York,  in  1665.  They  were  afterwards 
improved  by  the  French  commander  Tourrille,  and  by  Admiral 
Balchen. 

Raw  silk  is  said  to  have  first  been  made  by  a  people  of  China 
called  Ceres,  150  b.  0.  It  was  first  brought  from  India,  in  274, 
and  a  pound  of  it  at  that  time  was  worth  a  pound  of  gold.  The 
manufacture  of  raw  silk  was  introduced  into  Europe  from 
India  by  some  monks  in  550.  Silk  dresses  were  first  worn  in 
1455.  The  eggs  of  the  silk-worm  were  first  brought  into 
Europe  in  527. 

Paulus  Jovius  was  the  first  person  who  introduced  mottoes ; 
Dorat,  the  first  who  brought  anagrams  into  fashion.     Rabelais 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN    OF   THINGS   FAMILIAa. 


3131 


wag  tlie  first  who  wrote  satires  in  French  prose;  Etienoe  Jodellc, 
the  first  who  introducecl  tragedies  into  France.  The  Cardiual 
of  Ferrara,  Archbishop  of  Lyons,  was  the  first  who  had  a  tragi- 
comedy performed  on  the  stage  of  Italian  comedians.  The  first 
sonnet  that  appeared  in  French  is  attributed  to  Jodello. 

(Juido  Aretino,  a  Benedictine  nioak  of  Arezzo,  Tuscany,  in 
1204  designated  the  notes  used  in  the  musical  scale  by  syllables 
derived  from  the  following  verses  of  a  Latin  hymn  dedicated  to 
St.  John :— 

UTque 


Mlra  gesi 


FAmuli  t 


LAbii  reatum. 
0  Pati^  AbiK. 

'By  this  means  he  converted  the  old  tetractord  into  hesachords. 
He  also  invented  lines  and  spaces  in  musical  notation. 

The  invention  of  clocks  is  by  some  aaoribed  to  Paoificus, 
Archdeacon  of  Verona,  in  the  nintk  century;  and  by  others,  to 
Boethius,  in  the  early  part  of  the  sixth.  The  Saracens  are  sup- 
posed to  have  had  clocks  which  were  moved  by  weights,  as 
early  as  the  eleventh  century;  and,  as  the  terra  is  applied  by 
Dante  to  a  machine  which  struck  the  hours,  clocks  must  have 
been  known  in  Italy  about  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  or  begin- 
ning of  the  fourteenth  century.  The  most  ancient  clock  of 
which  we  have  any  certain  account  was  erected  in  a  tower  of 
the  pala«e  of  Charles  V-,  King  of  France,  in  1364,  by  Henry 
de  Wyok  or  de  Viok,  a  German  artist.  A  clock  was  erected 
at  Strasbourg  in  1370,  at  Conrtray  about  the  same  period,  and 
at  Speyer  in  1395. 

Watches  are  said  to  have  been  made  at  Nuremberg  as  early 
as  1477 ;  but  it  is  uncertain  how  far  the  watches  then  con- 
structed resembled  those  now  in  use.  Some  of  the  early  ones 
were  very  small,  in  the  shape  of  a  pear,  and  sometimes  fitted 
into  the  top  of  a  walking-stick.  As  time-keepers,  watches 
could  bave  had  very  little  value  before  the  application  of  the 
BpiraL  spring  as  a  regulator  to  the  balance.  This  was  invented 
by  Hooke,  in  1358. 


lyClOOglC 


0  es  k 

JJ  T  p  J 

1285. 

Quilla  are  supposed  to  have  been  used  for  writing-pcna  in  the 
fifth  century,  though  the  conjecture  rests  mainly  on  an  anecdote 
of  Theodoric,  King  of  the  Ostrogoths,  who,  being  so  illiterate 
that  he  oould  not  write  even  the  initials  of  his  own  namn,  was 
provided  with  a  plate  of  gold  through  which  the  letters  were 
cut,  and,  this  being  placed  on  the  paper  when  his  Signature  was 
required,  he  traced  the  letters  with  a  quill.  The  date  of  tho 
earliest  certain  account  of  the  modern  writing-pen  is  636.  The 
next  notice  occurs  in  the  latter  part  of  the  same  century, 
ill  a  Latin  sonnet  to  a  pen  byAldhelm,  a  Saxonauthor.  The 
reeds  formerly  employed  are  still  used  in  some  Eastera  nations. 
Steel  pens  were  first  made  by  Wise,  in  England,  in  1803. 

The  first  known  treatise  on  stenography  is  the  curious  and 
scarce  little  work  entitled  "  Arte  of  Shorte,  Swifte,  and  Secrete 
Writing  hy  Character,  invented  by  Timothe  Bright,  Doctor  of 
Phisike." 

The  art  of  printing,  according  to  Du  Ilalde  and  the  mission- 
aries, was  practised  in  China  nearly  fifty  years  before  the  Chris- 
tian Era.  In  the  time  of  Confucius,  B.C.  .500,  books  weie 
formed  of  slips  of  bamboo;  and  about  150  years  after  Christ, 
paper  was  first  made;  a.d.  745,  books  were  bound  into  leaves; 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OF  THINGS   FAMILIAR.  S63 

AD  9U0  jntitm^  was  m  general  use  The  proce'is  of  jjnntmg 
iftsiui-le  The  materidls  onnsiit  ot  a  graver  bki,ks  ot  wird, 
^nd  a  brush  wh!t,h  the  piintera  carry  with  theui  frjin  place 
to  place  Witlinut  wteel,  oi  wedge  or  screw  i  printer  will 
throw  oft  in  ire  tlnn  two  thousand  bve  bundled  impro'ision-i  ui 
one  day  The  japer  (thin)  can  be  bought  fjr  one  fouith  the 
price  in  Chin'i  that  it  can  m  any  othoi  country  The  w  ik'^ 
of  Confuciu''  SIS  lolume^i  four  hundrei  leavi,^  oUavo,  can  be 
bout,lit  foi  twelve  cents 

Stimp'i  foi  mirkiag  warei  pictigeB  &c  weie  in  u^e  anif  n<; 
the  R  niin  tradtsmen,  and  it  is  highly  probuble  thit  hid  the 
modern  art  of  making  piper  been  known  to  the  inoients  they 
would  hive  diffused  among  themselve*',  and  transmiltpd  to  pos 
teritv,  pr  nted  lofk'i 

From  the  early  commeri,ial  intercourse  of  the  Venetuns  with 
China,  theie  la  reasnn  to  believe  that  the  knowlelge  of  the  art 
and  ot  its  apphcation  to  the  multiplying  of  books  was  deiivcd 
fiom  thence,  for  Venice  11  the  first  place  in  Europe,  ot  which 
we  hive  any  aooount  in  which  it  was  practiced,  a  Q-Diernmant 
deoiee  reapeoting  it  having  been  issued  October  11  1441  Pre 
vious  to  the  year  1450,  all  printing  bad  been  executed  by  means 
of  engraved. blocks  of  wood;  hut  about  this  period,  the  great 
and  accumulating  expense  of  engraving  blocks  for  each  separate 
work  led  to  the  substitution  of  movable  metal  types.  The 
credit  of  this  great  improvement  is  given  to  P. 
assistant  and  aon-indaw  of  John  Faust,  of  Menta, 
called  Dr.  Faustus,)  The  first  hook  printed  with  the  oast  metal 
types  was  the  "  Mentz  Bible,"  whieh  was  executed  by  Faust 
and  Guttembcrg,  between  the  years  1450  and  1455. 

The  Dutch  claim  to  have  originated  stereotyping.  They 
have,  as  they  say,  a  prayer-hook  stereotyped  in  1701.  The  first 
attempt  at  stereotyping  in  America  was  made  in  1775,  by  Beiija- 
min  Mecom,  a  printer  of  Philadelphia.  He  cast  plates  for  a  num. 
her  of  pages  of  the  New  Testament,  but  never  completed  them. 

The  first  printing-press  in  America  waa  established  at  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  In  1639. 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OP 


Themistocles,  marching  against  the  Persians,  behclrl  two  game- 
cocks in  the  heat  of  battle,  and  thereupon  pointed  out  to  his 
Athenian  soldiery  their  indomitable  cours^.  The  Athenians 
were  yi^torious;  and  Themistocles  gave  order  that  an  annual 
eock>fight  should  be  held  in  commemoration  of  the  encounter 
they  had  witnessed  No  record  of  this  sport  occura  in  England 
before  the  year  1191. 

TURNCOAT. 

The  opprobious  epithet,  hi^ncoat,  took  its  rise  from  one  of 
the  first  dnkes  of  Savoy,  whose  dominions  lying  open  to  the 
incursions  of  the  two  contending  houses  of  Spuin  and  France, 
he  was  obliged  to  temporize  and  fidl  in  with  that  power  that 
was  most  likely  to  distress  him,  according  to  the  success  of  their 
arms  agdnat  one  another.  So  being  frequently  obliged  to 
change  sides,  he  humorously  got  a  coat  made  that  was  him  on  one 
side,  and  white  on  the  other,  and  might  be  indifferently  worn 
either  side  out.  While  in  the  Spanish  int«rest,  he  wore  the 
blue  side  out,  and  the  white  side  was  the  badge  for  the  IVench. 
Hence  he  was  called  Emmanuel,  sumamed  the  Turncoat,  by 
way  of  distinguishing  him  from  other  princes  of  the  same 
name  of  thyt  house. 

INDIA-EUBBEK, 

Caoutchouc  was  long  known  before  its  most  valuable  qualities 
were  appreciated.  One  of  the  earliest  notices  of  its  practical 
use  occurs  in  I>r.  Priestly's  Theory  and  Practice  of  Pera^ective., 
printed  in  ITVO.  "I  have  seen"  says  he,  "a  substance  eseol 
lently  adapted  to  the  purpose  of  wiping  from  paper  the  maiks 
of  a  black  lead-pencil.  It  must,  therefore,  be  of  lingular  use 
to  those  who  practice  drawing.  It  is  sold  by  Mi  Njime, 
mathematical  instrument-maker,  opposite  the  Royal  Exchange 
He  sells  a  cubical  piece,  of  about  half  an  inch,  for  three  '>hilhnj,-> , 
and,  he  says,  it  will  last  several  years." 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OF   1 


S  FAMILIAR. 


FEICTION   MATCHES, 

In  1836  the  subject  of  friL-fion  matttes  attracted  tlie  jrtffii- 
taonof  Mr.  L.  C.  Allin,  of  Springfield,  Massachusetts  At  that 
time  a  clumsy  phosphoric  match,  imported  from  fraucc,  had 
come  into  limited  use  in  the  United  Sta.tea.  It  was  made  by 
dipping  the  mateh-stiok  first  into  sulphur,  and  then  into  a 
paste  composed  of  chloride  of  potash,  red  lead,  and  loaf  sugar. 
Each  box  of  matches  was  accompanied  by  a  bottle  of  sulphur- 
ic acid,  into  which  every  match  had  to  be  dipped  in  order  to 
light  it.  To  abolish  this  inconTenience,  and  make  a  mj.t«h 
which  would  light  from  the  friction  caused  by  any  rough  sur- 
fece,  was  the  task  to  which  young  AUln  applied  himself  He 
succeeded,  but  took  out  uo  patent.  On  being  urged  to  do  so, 
he  found  that  a  patent  had  already  heea.  obtained  by  one  Phil- 
lips of  Ohicopee,  a  peddler,  who  had  probably  picked  up 
through  a  third  party  the  result  of  Mr.  Allin's  study.  Mr. 
Allin's  legal  adYiser  thought  that  he  (Allin)  would  do  hotter 
to  have  the  right  to  manufacture  under  Phillips'  patent  (which 
Phillips  gave  him  without  charge,  in  consideration  of.  the 
waiving  of  his  claim,)  than  to  bear  the  expense  of  the  litigation 
which  was  feared  to  he  necessary  to  establish  his  claim.  So  the 
inventor  of  iriction  matches  became  simply  a  manufacturer 
under  another  man's  patent. 

a'OE   FLAG  OF   BNOLAND. 

Oti  the  12th  of  April,  1606,  the  Union  Jack— that  famous 
ensign — first  made  its  appearance.  From  Rymer's  Fixdera,  and 
the  Scottish  Annals  of  Sir  James  Balfour,  we  learn  that  some 
differences  havingarisen between  shipsofthe  twocountriesatsea, 
the  king  ordained  that  a  new  flag  be  adopted  with  the  crosses 
of  St.  Andrew  and  St,  George  interlaced,  by  placing  the  latter 
fimbriated  on  the  blue  flag  of  Scotland  as  the  ground  thereof. 
This  flag  all  ships  were  to  carry  at  their  main  top ;  but  English 
ships  were  to  display  St.  George's  red  cross  at  their  stem,  and 
the  Scottish  the  white  salthe  of  St.  Andrew. 

31«' 


lyClOOglC 


"66  ORIGIN    OF   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 

BJ.tE-STOOKING. 

It  waa  the  fiiabion  in  London,  in  1781,  for  ladies  to  have 
evening  assemblies,  where  they  might  participate  in  conveisa- 
tioQ  with  literary  men.  These  societies  acquired  the  name  of 
Blut-Stockiwj  Clubs, — an  appellation  which  has  been  applied 
to  pedantic  females  ever  since.  It  arose  irom  the  custom  of 
Mr.  Stilhngflect,  one  of  the  most  eminent  members,  wearing 
blue  stockings.  Such  was  the  excellence  of  his  conversation, 
and  his  absence  was  so  great  a  loss,  that  it  used  to  be  said, 
"  We  can  do  nothing  without  the  Blue  Stockings;"  and  thus  the 
title  was  gradually  established.  In  Hannah  More's  poem,  Bus 
bleu,  many  of  the  most  conspicuous  members  are  mentioned. 


This  wold  may  be  easily  traced  to  a  Greek  origin.  The  verb 
a/.s3avvuu  of  which  the  root  is  axsSa,  is  used  freely  byThucy- 
dides,  Hciodotua,  and  other  Greek  wiiters,  ia  describing  the 
dispersion  of  a  routed  army.  From  the  root  a-ti8ci  the  word 
skedaddle  is  formed  by  simply  adding  the  euphonious  termina- 
tion die  and  doubling  the  d,  as  required  by  the  analogy  of  our 
IdUjjuij,!,  m  such  words.  In  many  words  of  undoubted  Greek 
extraction  much  greater  changes  are  made. 

The  Swedes  have  a  similar  word,  slcuddadahl,  and  the  Danes 
another,  ikyededekl,  both  of  which  have  the  same  signification. 

An  old  version  of  the  Irish  New  Testament  contains  the 
pissage,  "For  it  is  written,  I  will  smite  the  shepherd,  and  the 
sheep  of  the  flock  shall  be  sgedad  ol."  This  compound  Irish 
woid  sgt  lad  ol  (all  scattered  or  utterly  routed)  was  probably 
used  by  some  Irishman  at  Bull  Eun,  and,  beiug  regarded  as 
felioitons,  was  at  once  adopted. 

TOOL  SOAP   PAPER. 

The  term  of  "foolscap,"  to  designate  a  certain  size  of  paper, 
no  doubt  has  puzzled  many  an  anxious  inquirer.  It  appears 
that  Charles  I.,  of  England,  granted  numerous  monopolies 
for  the  support  of  the  Government,  among  others  the  manu- 
facture of  paper.     The  water-mark  of  the  finest  sort  waa  the 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OP   THINGS 


367 


royal  arms  of  England  The  tjnaunption  of  this  artiJe  wis 
great,  and  large  fortunes  were  made  by  those  who  purohise  1 
the  exclusive  right  til  vend  it  This  imong  othci  momiuhes 
was  set  aside  hy  the  Parliaroent  that  hiought  Charl  si  to  the 
scaffold;  and,  by  wiy  ot  'thowmg  contempt  for  the  Kin^ 
they  ordered  the  ro3  d  imia  to  be  taken  from  the  piper,  and  a 
fool  with  his  cap  and  bells  to  be  substituted  It  is  now  over 
two  hundred  years  since  the  fools  cap  was  (itm  fioni  tbi 
paper,  but  still  the  papei  of  the  size  wliith  the  Eump 
Parliament  ordered  for  their  journals  bears  the  nime  of  the 
wat^r-mark  placed  there  as  -m  indignity  lo  Kmg  Charles 

THE   FIR&T  FORGED  BANK  NOTE 

Sixty-four  years  after  the  e-tibhshment  of  the  Bank  of 
England,  the  first  fuie.ed  note  wit  presented  for  p^Jm^nt, 
and  to  Richard  Wdliam  Vaughn,  a  Stifford  linen  drajer 
belongs  the  melancholy  celnbnty  of  having  ted  the  ^an  in  this 
new  phase  of  crime,  in  the  year  175S.  The  reoirds  of  his,  hie 
do  not  show  want,  beggary  or  starvation  urging  him,  but  a 
simple  desire  to  seem  greater  than  he  was.  By  one  of  the 
artists  employed  (and  there  were  severfJ  engaged  on  different 
parts  of  the  notes)  the  discovery  was  made.  The  criminal  had 
filled  up  to  the  number  of  twenty  and  depoated  them  in  the 
hands  of  a  young  lady  to  whom  he  was  attached,  as  a  proof  of 
hiswealth.  There  is  no  calculating  how  much  longer  bank-notes 
might  have  been  free  from  imitation  had  this  man  not  shown 
with  what  ease  they  could  be  counterfeited.  From  this  period 
forgcdnotes  became  common.  His  execution  did  not  deter  others 
from  the  offence,  and  many  a  neck  was  forfeited  to  the  halter 
before  the  late  abolition  of  capital  punishment  for  that  crime. 

THE  FIRST  PIANO-FORTE. 

A  play-bill  of  the  Covent  Garden  Theatre,  dated  May  16, 
1767,  after  setting  forth  the  performance  of  The  Beggar's 
Opera,  contains  the  following  notification; — "End  of  Act 
First,  Miss  Brickler  will  sing  a  favorite  song  from  Judith, 
accompanied  by  Mr.  Dibdin  on  a  new  instrument  called  Piano- 


lyGoogle 


Forte  The  firat  manufacturer  a  l:i,ke¥ed  to  be  a  German 
named  Baokers  is  there  is  still  in  existence  the  name-board 
of  a  pian  i  inscnbe  J  'Amerio  is  Backers,  Factor  ef  Inventor, 
Jermjn  htreet  London  1776 

THE   FIRST  DOCTORS. 

Tlie  title  of  Doctok  was  invented  in  the  tweliWi  century, 
at  the  first  establishment  of  the  universities.  The  first  person 
upon  wliom  it  was  eonferrefl  was  Iknerius,  a  learned  Professor 
of  Law,  at  the  University  of  Bologna.  He  induced  the 
Emperor  Lothaire  II.,  whose  Chancellor  he  was,  to  create  the 
title ;  and  he  himself-  was  the  first  recipient  of  it.  He  was 
made  Doctor  of  Laws  by  that  university.  Subsequently  the 
title  was  borrowed  by  the  facnlty  of  Theology,  and  first  con- 
ferred by  the  University  of  Paris  on  Peter  Lombard,  the 
celebrated  scholastic  theologian.  "William  Gordenio  wm 
the  first  person  upon  whom  the  title  of  Doctor  of  Medicine 
was  bestowed.  He  received  it  from  the  college  at  Asti,  in 
1329. 

TUB    FIRST    THAKKSGIVINO    PaOCIjAMATION. 

The  first  proclamation  of  Thanksgiving  Day  that  is  to  be 
found  in  a  printed  form  is  the  one  issued  by  his  Excellency 
Francis  Bernard,  Captain-General  and  Governor-in-Chief 
in  and  over  His  Majesty's  province  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay, 
in  New  England,  and  Vice-Admiral  of  the  same,  in  1767.     It 


A    PKOOLiMATIOM   FOB    A    PUBLI' 

As  the  Business  of  the  Year  is  now  drawing  towards  a  Con- 
clusion, wo  are  reminded,  according  to  the  laudable  Usage  of 
this  Province,  to  join  together  in  a  grateful  Acknowledgement 
of  the  manifold  Mercies  of  the  Divine  Providence  conferred 
upon  Us  in  the  passing  Year :  Wherefore,  I  have  thought  fit 
to  appoint,  and  I  do  with  the  .advice  of  His  Majesty's  Council 
appoint,  Thursday,  the  Third  Day  of  December  nest,  to  be  a 
day  of  public  Thanksgiving,  that  we  may  thereupon  with  one 
Heart  and  Toice  return  our  most  humble  Thanks  to  Almighty 


lyClOOglC 


ORIGIN   OP   THINGS    FAMILIAR.  369 

God  for  the  gracious  Dispensations  of  His  Providence  since 
the  last  religious  Anniversary  of  this  kind :  and  e8peoia,lly  for 
— that  b^  has  been  pleased  to  preserve  and  maintain  our  most 
gracious  Sovereign  King  George  in  Health  and  Wealth,  in 
Peace  and  Honour ;  and  to  eitend  the  Blessings  of  his  Govern- 
ment to  the  remotest  Part  of  his  Dominions; — -that  He  hath 
been  pleased  to  bless  and  preserve  our  gracious  Queen  Char- 
lotte, their  Royal  Highnesses  the  Prince  of  Wales,  the 
Princess  Dowager  of  Wales,  and  all  the  Royal  family,  and  by 
the  frequent  Encrease  of  the  Eoyai  Issue  to  assure  to  us  the 
Continuation  of  the  Blessings  which  we  derive  from  that  illus- 
trious House ; — that  He  hath  been  pleased  to  prosper  the  whole 
British  Empire  by  the  Preservation  of  Peace,  the  Bnerease  of 
Trade,  and  the  opening  of  new  Sources  of  National  Wealth ; — 
and  now  particularly  that  he  hath  been  pleased  to  favor  the 
people  of  this  province  with  healthy  and  kindly  Seasons,  and 
to  hless  the  Labour  of  their  Hands  with  a  Sufficiency  of  the 
Produce  of  the  Earth  and  of  the  Sea. 

And  I  do  exhort  all  Ministers  of  the  Gospel,  with  their 
several  Congregations,  within  this  Province,  that  they  assemble- 
on  the  said  Day  in  a  Solemn  manner  to  return  their  most 
humble  thanks  to  Almighty  GoD  for  these  and  all  other  His, 
Mercies  vouchsafed  unto  us,  and  to  beseech  Him,  notwith- 
standing our  Unworthiness,  to  continue  his  gracious  Provi- 
dence over  us.  And  I  command  and  enjoin  all  Magistrates 
and  Civil  OfScers  to  see  that  the  said  Day  be  observed  as  a  Day, 
set  apart  for  religious  worship,  and  that  no  servile  Labour  he- 
permitted  thereon. 

'  Given  at  the  Council  Chamber  in  Boston,  the  Fourth  Day 
of  November,  1767,  in  the  Eighth  Tear  of  the  Reign  of  our 
Sovereign  Lord  George  the  Third,  by  the  Grace  of  God',  of 
Great  Britain,  France  and  Ireland,  King,  Defender  of  the 
Faith,  &c.  Fra  Bekmakd. 

By  his  Kseellenoy's  Command. 

A.  Oliver,  Sec'rv 


lyClOOglC 


among.t  thj  people.     Preserve      e 

the  vigor  of  their  minds;  shower  down  on  tf  em  and  the  m  I 
Hum  tiiey  here  represent,  such  temporal  blessings  as  thou 
seest  expedient  for  them  in  this  world  ind  crown  them  with 
everlasting  glory  in  the  world  to  come.  All  this  we  isk  m  tl"e 
name  and  through  the  merits  of  Jesus  Ghi  °.t  tlj  =!on  our 
Saviour.    Aaiea  1 


lyGoogle 


OEiaiN   or   THINGS   FAMILIAR. 


371 


THE  FIRST  REPORTERS. 

In  Sylvester  O'Halloran'a  Huiory  wrt^  Antiqvitiei  of  Ireland,, 
published  in  Dublin  in  17'J2,  is  the  curious  entry  subjoined, 
Bille,  a  Milesian  king  of  a  portion  of  Spain,  bad  k  son  named 
Gollamb,  who  "  solicited  hia  fetter's  permission  to  ssmt  their 
Phcenician  ancestors;  then  greatly  distressed  by  continual  wars," 
and  having  gained  hia  consent,  the  passage  describing  the  result 
proceeds  thus ; — - 

With  a  well-appointed  fleet  of  thirty  ships  and  a  select  num- 
ber of  intrepid  warriors,  he  weighed  anchor  from  the  harbor  of 
Corunna  for  Syria.  It  appears  that  war  was  not  the  sole  busi- 
ness of  this  equipment;  for  in  this  fleet  were  embarked  twelve 
youths  of  uncommon  learning  and  abilities,  who  were  directed 
to  make  remarks  on  whatever  they  found  new,  either  in  as- 
tronomy, navigation,  arts,  sciences,  or  manufactures.  They 
were  to  communicate  their  remarks  and  discoveries  ta  each 
other,  and  keep  an  esact  account  of  whatever  was  worthy  of 
notice.     This  took  place  in  the  year  of  the  world,  2650. 

These  twelve  youths  were  reporters,  and  if  this -story  be  true, 
the  profession  constituting  "  the  fourth  estate"  may  boast  of  an 


THE  FIRST   EPIGRAM. 

Among  "  first  things,"  the  following  is  worth  preserving,  a 
is  believed  to  be  the  first  epigram  estant  in  the  English  1 
guage.  It  was  written  by  Sir  Thomas  Wyat,  who  in  some 
his  sonnets  did  not  hesitate  to  intimate  his  secret  p^sion 
Anne  Boleyn. 

0/aneiB  marrird  sMdeal  that  plaid  fait  or  loie. 
A  etudient  at  bis  hok  aa  plaat. 
That  wcaltl!  ie  migiit  have  wonne. 
From  bok  to  wife  did  flete  in  haat, 
From  wclth  to  wo  to  ninne. 
Non  nho  hath  plaid  a  foat«r  cast, 
OB  jngling  firat  begonno 


In  S«i( 


of  hlni 


EiiDself  he  hath  undoii 


elf  80 /a.! 


lyClOOglC 


372  ORIGIN   OF  THINGS   FAMILIAR. 

NEWS. 

The  word  news  is  commonly  supposed  to  be  derived  from  the 
adjective  new.  It  is  asserted,  however,  that  its  origin  is  trace- 
able to  a  custom  in  former  times  of  placing  on  the  newspapers 
of  the  day  the  initial  letters  of  the  cardinal  points  of  the  com- 
pass, thus : — 


These  letters  were  intended  to  indicate  that  the  paper  contained 
intfeUigence  from  the  four  quarters  of  the  globe,  but  they  finally 
came  to  asaiime  the  form  of  the  word  mews,  from  which  the 
term  newspaper  is  derived. 

THE   EARtlBST   NEWSPAPERS, 

The  Englisho  Merourie,  now  in  MS.  in  the  British  Museum, 
has  been  proved  to  be  a  forgery.  The  oldest  regular  newspaper 
published  in  England  was  established  by  Nathaniel  Batter,  in 
1662. 

The  oldest  i>aper  in  France  was  commenced  by  Theophraatus 
Eenaudot,  in  1632,  during  the  reign  of  Louis  XIII.  It  was 
called  the  Gazette  de  Fra^iee. 

The  first  Dut^h  newspaper,  which  is  still  continued  ■  under 
the  name  of  the  Haarlem  Courant,  is  dated  January  8,  1656. 
It  was  then  called  De  Weeckelycke  Cov/ratite  van  Ev,ropa,  and 
contained  two  small  folio  pages  of  news. 

The  first  Russian  newspaper  was  published  in  1703.  Peter 
the  Great  not  only  took  part  personally  in  its  editorial  compo- 
sition, but  in  correcting  proofs,  as  appears  from  sheets  still  in 
existence  in  which  are  marks  and  alterations  in  his  own 
hand.  There  are  two  complete  copies  of  the  first  year's  edition 
of  this  paper  in  the  Imperial  Library  at  St.  Petersburg. 

The  first  newspaper  established  in  North  America  was  the 
Boston  News-Letter,  commenced  April  24,  1704.     It  was  half 


lyGoogle 


FAMILIAR.  373 

a  shoet  of  paper,  twelve  inciiea  by  eight,  two  columns  on  a 
page.  B,  G-reea  was  the  printer.  It  survived  tili  1776, — 
seventy-two  years.  It  advocated  the  policy  of  the  British 
Government  at  the  commencement  of  the  Kevolution. 

From  a  copy  of  this  paper  printed  in  1769  is  obtained  the 
following  announcement : — 

"  The  bell-eart  will  go  through  Boston,  before  the  end  of  nest 
month,  to  collect  rags  for  the  paper-mill  at  Milton,  when  all 
people  that  will  encourage  the  paper-maaufaotory  may  dispose 
of  their  raga : 


Rags  are  as  bennt 

6B,  -B-hioh  OOrLQ 

al^d  lie. 

But  wlien 

,  how  it  oharm 

3  the  «yo ! 

Pray  save 

yonrra 

ga,  H6W  beautie 

ruly,  i 

ery  one's  a  lot 

and  press  sueh  knowledge  is  displayed 

As  wouldn 

:  exist 

f  paper  was  n 

tmade. 

new  d  h        I 
ing  pp 

cl  h 

it  up      dp 
fo     h 
asn     h   b 
ety  by  P 
cl  b 

ca      d        b 
bad  p       d  n 


lyClOOglC 


!!74  OKIOIN   OF  THINGS 

and,  althongh  he  had  struggled  on  with  undying  hope  for  many 
years,  it  ia  hardly  to  be  wondered  atthat  he  felt  disheartened 
now.  On  the  last  night  of  the  session  he  remained  till  nine 
o'clock,  and  theu  left  without  the  slightest  hope  that  the  hill 
would  be  passed.  He  returned  to  his  hotel,  counted  his  money, 
and  found  that  after  paying  his  expenses  to  New  York  he 
would  have  seventy-five  cents  left.  That  night  he  went  to  bed 
sad,  but  not  without  hope  for  the  future;  for,  through  all  his 
difficulties  and  trials,  that  never  forsook  him.  The  nest  morn- 
ing, as  he  was  going  to  breakfast,  one  of  the  waiters  informed 
him  that  a  young  lady  was  in  the  parlor  waiting  to  see  him. 
He  went  in  immediately,  and  found  that  the  young  lady  was 
Miss  Ellsworth,  daughter  of  the  GommissioQer  of  Patents,  who 
had  been  his  most  steadfast  friend  while  in  Washington. 

"  I  come,"  said  she,  "  to  congratulate  you." 

"For  what?"  said  Professor  Morse. 

"On  the  passage  of  your  bill,"  she  replied. 

"  Oh,  no  :  you  must  be  mistaken,"  said  he,  "  I  remained  in 
the  Senate  till  a  late  hour  last  night,  and  there  was  no  prospect 
of  its  being  reached." 

"Am  I  the  first,  then,"  she  esolaimed,  joyfully,  "to  tell 

"Yes,  if  it  is  really  so." 

"Well,"  she  ooatiuued,  "father  remained  till  the  adjourn- 
ment, and  heard  it  passed;  and  I  asked  Mm  if  I  might  not  run 
over  and  tell  you." 

"Annie,"  said  the  Professor,  his  emotion  almost  choking  his 
utterance,  "  the  first  message  that  is  sent  from  Washington  to 
Baltimore  shall  be  sent  from  you." 

"Well,"  she  replied,  "I  will  keep  you  to  your  word." 

While  the  line  was  in  process  of  completion.  Prof  Morse  was  in 
New  York,  and  upon  receiving  intelligence  that  it  was  in  work- 
ing order,  he  wrote  to  those  in  charge,  telling  them  not  to 
transmit  any  messages  over  it  till  his  arrival.  He  then  set  out 
immediately  for  Washington,  and  on  reaching  that  city  sent  a 
Eote  to  Miss  Ellsworth,  informing  her  that  he  was  now  ready 


lyClOOglC 


NOTHING    NEW   UNDER   THE   S 


375 

i  he  should 


to  fuiail  his  promise,  aad  asking  her  what  i 

To  this  he  receiyed  the  following  replj  : — 
What  hath  God  wrought! 
Words  that  ought  to  be  written  in  characters  of  living  light. 
The  message  was  twice  repeated,  and  each  time  with  the  great- 
est success.  As  soon  as  the  result  of  the  experiment  was  made 
known,  Governor  Seymour,  of  Connecticut,  afterwards  United 
States  minister  at  St.  Petersburg,  called  upon  Professor  Morse 
and  claimed  the  first  message  for  his  State,  on  the  ground  that 
Miss  Ellsworth  was  a  native  of  Hartford.  We  need  scarcely 
add  that  his  claim  was  admitted;  and  now,  engraved  in  letters 
of  gold,  it  is  displayed  conspicuously  in  the  archives  of  the 
Historical  Society  of  Connecticut. 


Kottjius  Neil)  mnatx  tljE  g>un. 

rOEESHADOWINGS   OF  THE   MAGNETIC  TELEGRAPH. 
0  utinam  htee  ratio  scribendi  prodeat  uau, 
Cautior  et  citior  properarat  epistola,  nnllas 

Ipse  auiB  Prineops  manibus  sjbi  oonfiooret  ram  I 
JVoa  lobolei  acHbamm,  eriterti  ex  square  nigro, 
Oottsecraremia  ettiimiEHH  Magnetii  ad  arm  ! 


lyClOOglC 


it  marks  oq  the  index.  With  this  anangcment  underatood  be- 
tween jou  both,  if  yon  wish  to  hold  a  private  conversation 
with  this  friend,  whom  the  shores  of  some  distant  land  have 
separated  from  jou,  turn  your  fiuger  to  the  disc  and  touch  the 
tasy-moving  needle.  Before  you  lie,  marked  upon  the  outer 
edge,  all  the  various  letters  :  direct  the  needle  to  such  letters 
as  are  necessary  to  form  the  words  you  want,  touching  a  little 
letter  here  and  there  with  the  needle's  point,  as  it  goes  travers- 
ing round  and  round  the  board,  until  you  throw  together,  one 
by  one,  yonr  various  ideas.  Lo !  the  wonderful  fidelity  of  oor- 
respoadence  I  Your  distant  friend  notes  the  revolving  needle 
vibrate  without  apparent  impulse  and  fly  hither  and  thither 
round  the  rim.     He  notes  its  movements,  and  reading,  as  ha 


lyGoogle 


NOTHING  NEW  UNDER  THE  SUN.  377 

follows  its  fflotion,  the  varioiis  letters  which  make  up  the  words, 
he  peroeiTes  all  that  is  aeoessary,  aad  learDs  jour  meaning  from 
the  interpreting  needle.  When  he  sees  the  needle  pause,  he, 
in  tarn,  in  like  manner  touches  the  various  letters,  and 
sends  back  his  answer  to  his  friend.  Oh  that  this  style  of 
writing  were  brought  into  use,  that  a  friendly  message  might 
travel  quicker  and  safer,  defying  snares  of  robbers  or  delaying 
rivers  I  Would  that  the  prince  himself  would  finish  the  great 
work  with  his  own  hands  !  Then  we  race  of  socibblers,  emer- 
ging from  our  sea  of  ink,  would  lay  the  quill  an  offering  on  the 
altars  of  the  loadstone. 

This  idea  of  Strada  is  based  upon  the  erroneous  impresaiou 
entertained  generally  at  the  time  when  he  wrote,  that  magnetic 
power,  when  imparted  by  the  loadstone  to  metallic  articles  like 
needles,  communicated  to  them  a  kind  of  homogeneous  impulse, 
which  of  necessity  caused  between  them  a  sympathetic  corre- 
sponden,ce  of  motion. 

The  curious  reader  will  be  further  interested  to  learn  from 
the  following  passage,  extracted  from  the  "  Tour"  of  Arthur 
ToUNG,  the  distinguished  agriculturist,  who  travelled  through 
Ireland  in  1775-78,  that  the  theory  of  electrical  correspondence 
by  means  of  a  wire  waa  practicaily  illustrated  before  Mr.  Morse 
was  born : — 

In  electricity.  Mens.  Losmond  has  made  a  remarkable  dis- 
covery. You  write  two  or  three  words  on  a  paper;  he  takes  it 
with  him  into  a  room,  and  turns  a  machine  enclosed  in  a  cylin- 
drical case,  at  the  top  of  which  is  an  electrometer,  in  the  shape 
of  a  small  fine  pith  ball.  A  wire  connects  with  a  similar  oylioder 
and  electrometer  in  a  distant  apartment,  and  his  wife,  by  remark- 
ing the  corresponding  motions  of  the  ball,  writes  down  the  words 
they  indicate,  from  which  il  appears  that  he  has  formed  an 
aJphahet  of  motions.  Ai  the  length  oftnire  makes  no  difference 
in  the  effect,  a  correspondence  might  he  carried  on  at  any  dis- 
tance, within  and  without  a  besieged  town,  for  instance,  or 
for  a  purpose  much  more  worthy  and  a  thousand  times  more 
32* 


lyClOOglC 


378  NOTHING   NEW  UNDER  THE   SUN. 


ween  two  lovers,  prohibited  or  prevoatcd  from  any 
better  epistolary  intercourse. 

A  seeond  edition  of  Mr.  Youog'a  Tour  was  pubiiahed  in 
quarto  in  1794,  and  the  above  extract  may  be  found  on  page 
79,  volume  i. 

TRD  EKE  EM1\ER 

T  g  fanndd         bEwE 


bwpbwhhg  d 

g      ra  fi  m  —  wh  n 

h    h  m  np  d       w       w!i    ii  b  fi 

m  Pd  fldhg        pbm 

[i  n  by        m  y  d  m 

tgbA  h  5  wpta 

Sp        wh  w    liu  d    d  d 

ppd  B  bp  htn 

h         V       d  his  b  h  n 

whhhkp  Bddm  w 

b  w  d    h  w        w    m 

wh  htsdh  TE  as 

tdwili         p  bub  a  li  dm 

tep      d    b  d  T  n 

bp  p  p  hdypas 

hpesdyb  mwg  h 

pn         '^p       was  p  h     g    wa.  p 

Up  w  mwBaadG 

wearied  and  disgusted  at  the  want  of  patronage,  took  the  en- 
gine out  of  the  vessel  and  allowed  the  ship  to  rot  in  the  arsenal, 
and  the  secret  of  his  machine  was  buried  in  his  grave. 

This  was  in  1543.  A  century  passed  away,  and  Providence 
offered  the  same  problem  to  be  solved  by  France.  In  reference 
to  this,  we  have  an  extraordinary  account,  and  &om  a  source 


lyGoogle 


NOTHING    NEW   UNDER  THE    SUN.  379 

equally  extraordinary, — from  the  writings  of  a  celebrated  female, 
in  the  middle  of  that  century,  equally  renowned  for  her  beauty, 
for  her  imraoralitiea,  and  for  her  longevity, — for  she  lived  to  he 
one  huodred  and  thirty-four  years  of  age, — the  famous  Marian  da 
I'Ornie.  There  is  a  letter  from  this  lady,  written  tci  one  of  lier 
admirers  in  1641,  contaiuing  an  account  of  a  visit  she  made  to  a 
mad-house  in  Paris  in  company  with  the  Marquis  of  Worcester. 
She  goes  on  to  relate,  tliat  in  company  with  the  marquis,  while 
crossing  th  ty    d    f  tl    t  dismal  establishment,  almost  petri- 

fied   with  t  d     1    ging  to  her  companion,  she  saw  a 

frightful  t  th  h  th  bars  of  the  building,  and  heard  this 
voice : — "  1  m  t  m  d — -I  am  not  mad  ;  I  have  made  a  disco- 
very which  w  11  h  th  kingdom  that  shall  adopt  it."  She 
asked  the  g  1  wh  t  t  ant:  he  shrugged  his  shoulders  and 
said,  laugh  gly  N  t  in  ch;  something  about  the  powers  of 
steam."  Up  th  th  1  ly  laughed  also,  to  think  that  a  man 
h  frivolous  subject.  The  guide  went 
n  name  was  Solomon  deCoste;  that 
dy  four  years  before,  and  exhibited  to 
by  which,  by  the  power  of  steam, 
,  navigate  the  ocean ;  "  in  short, 
d  the  guide,  "  there  was  nothing 
h  p  wer  of  steam."  Cardinal  EicheUeu, 
Fiance  itself,  and  who  wielded  the  whole 
power  of  government, — and,  in  truth,  an  enlightened  man,  as 
worldly  wisdom  goes, — was  appealed  to  by  Solomon  de  Ooste. 
De  Coste  was  a  persevering  man,  and  he  followed  Cardinal 
Richelieu  from  place  to  place,  exhibiting  his  invention,  until 
the  cardinal,  getting  tired  of  his  importunities,  sent  him  to  the 
luad-house.  The  guide  stated  further  that  he  hud  written  a 
book  entitled  Motive  Power,  and  handed  the  visitors  a  copy  of 
it.  The  Marquis  of  Worcester,  who  was  an  inventor,  was  much 
interested  in  the  book,  and  incorporated  a  considerable  portion 
of  it  in  his  well-known  work  oalled  T?ie  Century  of  Invention. 

It  will  be  seen  from  this  anecdote  how  France  proved  in 
1641,  as  Spain  had  proved  in  1543,  that  she  was  unable  to  take 


shoal  d  g 

on  to  say  th  t  th 


the  king 
you  could  w 
if  you  bel 
you  could 
who  at  that  1 


d   hu 


lyClOOglC 


k  Al    t  m  g 

depths  of  the  darksome  mines,  aloog  the  pathway  of  travel  and 
trade,  and  on  the  mountain  wave,  that  Ja  deatinod  to  drag,  urge, 
heave,  haul,  for  the  service  of  man  !  No  fatigue  shall  palsy  its 
herculean  arm,  no  trampled  hosts  shall  writhe  beneath  its  iron 
feet,  no  widow's  heart  shall  bleed  at  its  beiiefiuent  vicferies, 
England  inveeted  the  steam-engine ;  but  it  seems  as  if  by  the 
will  of  Providenee  she  oould  not  go  farther.  Queen  of  the 
seas,  as  she  deemed  herself,  she  oould  not  apply  the  invention 
she  had  brought  almost  to  perfection,  and  that  part  of  the  great 
problem,  the  navigation  of  the  ocean  by  steam,  was  reserved  for 
the  other  branch  of  the  Anglo-Sason  race, — the  branch  situated 
itt  a  region  in  this  Western  henaisphere  whose  territory  is  tra- 
versed by  some  of  the  noblest  rivers  that  belt  the  surface  of  the 
globe,  and  separated  by  the  world-wide  ocean  from  the  Eastern 
hemisphere.  It  is  amazing  to  consider  how,  with  the  dawn  of 
the  Revolution,  the  thoughts  of  men  turned  to  the  application 
of  steam-navigation.  Rumsey,  Fitcb,  and  Evans  made  experi- 
ments,  and  those  experiments  attracted  the  notice  of  one  whom 
nothing  escaped  pertaining  to  the  welfare  of  his  country :  I 


lyClOOglC 


NOTHINQ   NE 

menu  Washington.     And  w  ft  m 

pressing  tlie  satisfaction  wit 

perimeut  of  Eutosay.    The  a        p   p 

I  tliink  it  a  providentifll  a 

navigated  bj  steam  in  the  R  g       T 

preponderance  of  British  c  d 

been  navigated  bj  steam,  wo  p 

iities  for  blookading  our  per  m 

coasts,  which  might  have  h  ff 

of  the  whole  contest.     But  R  d 

peodenee  was  established :  m  m 

was  there. 

In  the  year  1799  this  s  m  b     m 

matured  in  the  mind  of  Ful 
"  coadjutor  in  Chancellor  Li 
applied  to  the  Legislature  of  N  w 
tion.    I  am  sorry  to  say  that  A 

boast  of  much  keener  perception  of  the  nature  of  this  discovery 
than  France  or  Spain  had  done  before.  Chancellor  Livingston 
at  last  had  a  petition  drawn  up  of  the  act  he  desired  passed.  It 
was  drafted  by  the  young  men  of  the  Le^alature,  who,  when 
tired  of  the  graver  matters  of  law,  used  to  call  up  the  "steam 
bill"  that  they  might  have  a  little  fun.    Young  America,  on  that 


d*d  1 


If  u 


th 


N  th       d 
d  by 


t  1     t  th 


Id 


h  1 

m  t    01 

p  d  b  f 

t  h  t  tm 


1    f  t    m  t    n  w     wh  lly  u  k 

B      p       Tb      ppl     t        f  t     n 


I  th 


r  b  f 


iv, 


d  p    d 
f  th 


b  t  th    k    wh  n  th 
wh  t         t  h        b        th      m  t   n 
llthyh  t»d     path     i 

d  w  1  th  f  1 1    m      I 

mu       t    n  wh    h      th        ult    f  h 


f  t!   t    1 
t  d  1 


lyClOOglC 


NOTHING   NEW   UN  HER   TOE   8TJN. 


When  air  balloons  were  first  diiuvered  some  one  flippmlly 
asked  Dr  Franklin  what  was  the  use  of  it  The  philosopher 
answered,  the  question  by  asking  inother  —  '  T\  haf  lo  the  use 
of  a  niw  lorn  infint  ?     It  may  become  a  man 

The  first  balhon  scenhion  vrta  made  by  Pilatre  de  EoBier 
ani  the  Mar  juis  d  Arhnd  s,  November  21  1783  in  a  mjnt 
golfiSre 

A  cenlurj  tnd.  a  half  before  this,  John  G-regjrie  wrote 
'  The  air  itself  13  not  so  unlike  to  water  but  that  it  may  be 
demonstrated  to  be  navigable,  and  that  a  ship  may  sail  upon 
the  convexity  thereof  by  the  same  reasons  that  it  is  oarned 
uprn  the  ocean  ' 

In  the  first  number  of  the  Philosophical  Collections,  1679,  is 

1       n    ration  how  it  is  practically  possible  to  make  a  ship, 

h   h   h  11  be  sustained  by  the  air,  and  may  be  moved  either 

by  oara,"  from  a  work  entitled  Prodroma,  published  in 

I    1    n  by  P.  Francesco  Laoa.    The  scheme  was  that  of  maiing 

b  ssel  which   should  weigh  less  than  the  air   it  eon- 

n  1  d  coasequeotly  float  in  the  air  when  that  which  was 
w  h  n  was  pumped  out.  He  calculated  every  thing — except 
h  p  u  e  of  the  atmosphere,  in  consequence  of  which  slight 
gh   he  realized  no  practical  result. 

THE   CIRCULATION   OF   THE  BLOOD. 

Harvey  discovered  the  circulation  of  the  blood  in  1619  ;  but 
we  learn  from  a  passage  in  Longinus  (ch.  xxii.)  that  the  fact 
was  known  two  thousand  years  before.  The  father  of  critics, 
to  exemplify  and  illustrate  the  use  and  value  of  (rope  in  writing, 
has  garbled  from  the  Timxus  of  Plato  a  number  of  sentences 
des     p  f  h  my       h    h  m  n  b  dy  wh        h 

lat  h    b  p    n    d         n  te  n  u  ph 

Th  ten         p  kn  w    dg     a  d    n     h 

tim  h    g        ph        ph      IS  by  n    m    n  y      fin 


lyClOOglC 


NOTHING   NEW   I 


1  surpassing  wisdom  of  the  gocis 


I  constructing  the  hu- 


The  use  of  the  vapor  of  sulphuric  ether  for  the  purpose  of 
inducing  insensibility  to  surgical  operations  was  first  practically 
adopted  by  Dr.  Mortoa,  of  Boston,  in  1846;  that  of  chloro- 
form, by  Dr,  Simpson,  of  Edinburgh,  in  1847.  To  this  period 
we  moat  assign  the  moat  importaat  epoch  in  the  annals  of  sur- 
gery, and  the  date  of  one  of  the  grandest  discoveries  of 
science  and  one  of  the  greatest  blessings  ever  conferred  upon 
humanity. 

The  idea,  however,  of  saving  the  human  body,  by  arfjfioial 
means,  from  the  pains  and  tortures  inflicted  by  the  knife 
of  the  surgeon,  has  been  by  no  means  either  first  broached  or 
first  acted  upon  in  recent  times.  Intense  pain  is  regarded  by 
mankind  generally  as  so  serious  an  evil  that  it  would  have  been 
strange  indeed  if  efforts  had  not  been  early  made  to  diminish  this 
p     es    f      ff       g      Th  f  th    J  f  tb     p  ppy  h 

b  m     drag  d       h  p    p  n  tf 

th       bj    t  by  tb       d    d  fl  m  y  b  d  1     1 

1 11  t  d     pp  th    d    k  f         m  t        t  q     y 

I  p       w        1       mpl  J  1  byw  y   t     hi 

ti^thmfftd  fh  tdd 

t      i  la  h      Th      app         f        th  t  by 

Hd  fhpt        fthSyh  loetn 

p       f  h  mp 


Th 


t  d  t 

I 

p     b 


d     t 


1 


f       pf    t        w 
t  p        p    d       d   by 
h     h  rr  bl    f  t 


1 


p  f  th 

mjhffdtthS  h            ywthdy 

I   b  te     f  h  m        y    1  thj  t    t  1  f    m  th    by  t     d     by 

th     p    t    1      f      t  I      b!  h 

Th  t             1  th              dy  ht  b    f  u  d  t     as           tb 

to  m    t    f              1    pe  th  J  w                 tly  p    f    m  1 


lyClOOglC 


NEW   UNDER  THE   SUN. 

[cauteriziiig  the  cut  surfaces,  instead  of  tying  the  arteries,]  was 
not  only  a  favorite  notion,  hut  it  had  been  in  some  degree,  how- 
ever imperfect,  reduced  to  practice.  Pliny  the  Naturalist,  who 
perished  in  the  eruption  of  Vesuvius  which  entomhed  the  city 
of  Herculaneum  in  the  year  79,  bears  distinot  and  decided 
testimony  to  this  fact. 

In  his  description  of  the  plant  known  as  the  mandragora  or 
circeius,  he  says,  "  It  has  a  soporific  power  on  the  faculties  of 
those  who  drink  it.  The  ordinary  potion  is  half  a  cup.  It  13 
drunk  against  serpents,  and  before  cuttings  and  pwict-arincfs, 
lest  they  should  be  felt."  (Bihitur  el  conti-a  serpentes,  et  ante 
sectioned,  pwnctwnesqvie,  ne  sentiantiir.') 

When  he  comes  to  speak  of  the  plant  eruca,  called  by  us  the 
rocket,  he  informs  ns  that  its  seeds,  when  drunk,  infused  in 
wine,  hj  criminals  about  to  undergo  the  lash,  produce  a  certain 
oallouaneas-  or  induration  of  feeling  (duaitiam,  quandam  con- 

Pliny  also  asserts  that  the'  stone  MkmpMtis,  powdered  and 
applied  in  a  liniment  with  vinegar,  will  stupefy  parts  to  he  cut 
or  cauterized,  "for  it  so  paralyzes  the  part  that  it  feels  no 
pain"  (nee  senfil  crvfiiatwn). 

Dioscorides,  a  Greek  physician  of  Cilicia,  in  Asia,  who  was 
born  about  the  time  of  Pliny's  death,  and  who  wrote  an  exten- 
sive work  on  the  materia  medioa,  observes,  in  his  chapter  on 
mandragora, — 

1.  "  Some  boil  down  the  roots  in  wine  to  a  third  part,  and 
preserve  the  juice  thus  procured,  and  give  one  cjathus  of  it  in 
sleeplessness  and  severe  pains,  of  whatever  part ;  also  to  cause 
the  insensibility — to  produce  the  anfesthesia  [  jrotsii'  a-jatafhjgiav] 
— of  those  who  are  to  be  cut  or  cauterized." 

2.  "  There  is  prepared,  also,  besides  the  decoction,  a  wine 
from  the  bark  of  the  root,  three  minse  being  thrown  into  a 
cask  of  sweet  wine,  and  of  this  three  eyathi  are  given  to  those 
who  are  to  be  cut  or  cauterized,as  aforesaid;  for,  being  thrown 
into  a  deep  sleep,  (fiey  do  not  perceive  pain." 

3.  Speaking  of  another  variety  of  mandragora,  called  morion, 


lyClOOglC 


:   NEW  UNDER   TITE    SUtf. 


he  observes,  "  Medical  d 
cat  or  cauterized  " 


b      top 


dy        tod  fr 


to  b 


d  b 


.d    [ 


vd  seriandum,']  let  bim  dnnk  half  an  ounce  witb  wine,  and 
let  htm  deff  liil  the  memher  is  cut  away  without  any  pain  or 
lensation  [et  tantum  dmmdet,  quosque  abseindatur  membrutn, 
ahqvo  s^ne  doloie  et  sen«(]  " 

It  was  not  in  Europe  and  in  Western  Asia  alone  that  these 
early  efforta  to  disoovei  some  lethean  were  made,  and  attended! 
witb  partial  success  On  the  opposite  side  of  the  contiiieiit,. 
the  Chinese — who  have  anticipated  the  Europeans  in  so  many 
important  inyentiona  as  in  gunpowder,  the  mariner's  compass, 
pimting  lith  gnphy  paper  money,  and  the  use  of  coal — seem, 
to  have  been  quite  as  hi  in  advance  of  the  Ocuideata!  world  in 
medical  science  They  unJerstood,  ages  before  they  were  in- 
troduced into  Christondom,  (be  use  of  substances  cuotaining 
iodine  for  the  cure  of  the  goitre,  and  employed  spurred  rje 
(ergot)  to  shorten  dangerously- prolonged  labor  in  diffioult  ai- 
couchements.  Among  the  therapeutic  methods  oonSrmed  by 
the  experience  of  thousands  of  years,  the  records  of  which  they 
have  preserved  with  religious  veneration,  the  employment  of  an 
anesthetic  agent  to  paralyze  the  nervous  sensibility  before  [ler- 


lyGoogle 


5    b  KOTHINO   NEW   UNDER   THE    STJN 

form  ng  sur^,  cal  ojer  t  ons  s  d  t  ctly  set  fortl  Amo  g  a 
ocs  ie  able  rnimbe  of  Ch  ne«e  w  rks  on  the  plia  TDaeopce  a 
med  0  no  and  su  gery  a  the  Nnt  ODal  L  bra  y  at  Par  s  is  one 
cnt  tied  JSjuu  k  iir  long  or  general  collect  on  of  ano  eat  anl 
m  dern  med  c  ne  n  fifty  volumes  quarto  Several  hundred 
b  og  aph  oal  not  ees  of  the  noat  d  st  ngn  shed  physi  o  ana  n 
Lh  a  re  prefixed  to  th  s  wo  k  The  follow  o^  cur  oua  pass 
j,e  oecur  a  tbe  Letches  of  the  b  o^  aphy  of  Soa  iha  who 
fl  bed  under  tl  e  dynasty  of  W  between  the  years  l  0 
and      0    i  ou    era         When  h    d  term  ned  that  t  was  ne  e 

ry  empl  y  cupunc  ure  he  enjloyed  t  n  two  or  tl 
places  and  ■?  w  th  he  o  f  tl  at  w  1  nd  cated  by  the 
nitnre  ot  the  aft  c  on  to  be  t  edted  But  if  the  d  seaee  re 
a  led  n  pa  ts  uf  on  wh  b  the  ne  die,  mosa,  or  1  ^u  d  m  I  oa 
nients  oould  not  operate, — for  esta— 'e  in  the  bonea,  or  the  mar- 
row of  the  bones,  in  the  stomach  or  the  intestines, — he  gave  the 
patient  a  preparation  of  bemp,  (in  the  Chinese  language  viayo,) 
and  after  a  few  momenta  he  beeame  aa  insensible  as  if  he  had 
been  drunk  or  dead.  Then,  as  the  ease  required,  he  performed 
operations,  incisions,  or  amputations,  and  removed  the  cause  of 
the  malady;  then  he  brought  together  and  secured  the  tisaues, 
aad  applied  Hnimenta.  After  a  certain  number  of  days,  the 
patient  recovered,  without  kavivg  experienced  the  slightest  pain 
during  the  operation." 

Almost  a  thousand  years  after  the  date  of  the  unmistakable 
phrases  quoted  from  Apuleins,  according  to  the  testimony  of 
WiUiam  of  Tyre,  and  other  chroniclers  of  the  wars  for  the 
rescue  of  the  holy  sepulchre,  and  the  fascinating  narrative  of 
3f<irco  Polo,  a  state  of  ansesthesia  was  .induced  for  very  different 
purposes.  It  became  an  instrument  ia  the  hands  of  bold  aad 
crafty  impostors  to  perpetuate  and  extend  the  most  terrible 
fanaticism  that  the  world  has  ever  seen. 

The  employmeat  of  ansesthetic  agents  in  surgical  operations 
was  nit  forgotten  ii  abandoned  during  the  period  when  they 
were  prtasel  into  the  appaUing  service  just  described.  In  the 
thirteanth  century,  ansesthesia  was  produced  by  inhalation  ot 


lyClOOglC 


NOTHING   NEW   UNDER   I 


387 


boil,  a 


an  anodyne  vapor,  in  a  mode  oddly  forestalliag  the  practiuea 
of  the  present  day,  which  is  described  as  follows  in  the  surgical 
treatise  of  Tbeodoric,  who  died  in  1298.  It  is  the  receipt  for 
the  "  spongia  somnifera,"  as  it  is  called  in  the  rabrio : — 

"The  preparatioQ  of  a  scent  for  performing  surgical  opera- 
tions, according  to  Master  Hugo.  It  is  made  thus  : — Take  of 
opium  and  the  juice  of  unripe  mulberry,  of  hyoscyamua,  of  the 
juice  of  the  hemlock,  of  the  juice  of  the  leaves  of  the  mandra- 
gora,  of  the  juiee  of  the  woody  ivy,  of  the  jaice  of  the  forest 
mulberry,  of  the  seeds  of  lettuce,  of  the  seed  of  the  burdock, 
which  has  large  and  round  apples,  and  of  the  water-bemlock, 
each  one  ounce;  mis  the  whole  of  these  together  in  a  brazen 
1,  and  then  place  a  new  sponge  in  it,  and  lot  the  whole 
s  long  as  the  sun  on  the  dog-days,  till  it  (the  sponge) 
s  it  all,  and  let  it  ha  boiled  away  in  it.  As  often  aa 
s  need  of  it,  place  this  same  sponge  in  warm  water  for  one 
mi  let  it  be  applied  to  the  nostrils  till  he  who  is  to  be 
operated  on  (qui  incidentus  eat)  has  fallen  asleep;  and  in  this 
state  let  the  operation  be  performed  (el  sic  fiat  cMrtirgia). 
When  this  is  finished,  in  order  to  rouse  him,  place  another 
dipped  in  vinegar,  frequently  to  his  nose,  or  let  the  juice  of  the 
roots  of  fenigreek  be  B££uirted  into  his  nostrils. 

Subsequent  to  Theodorie's  time,  we  find  many  interesting 
and  suggestive  observations  in  the  writings  of  BaptisU  Porta, 
Chamappe,  Meissnor,  Dauriol,  Halier,  and  Blandin.  About 
half  a  century  ago.  Sir  Hnmpbry  Davy  thus  hinted  at  the 
possibility  that  a  pain-aubduing  gas  might  be  inhaled  : — "  As 
nitrom  oxide,  in  its  extensive  operation,  appears  capable  of 
destroying  physical  pain,  it  may  probably  be  used  with  advan- 
tage during  surgical  operations  in  which  no  great  effusion  of 
blood  takes  place."  Baron  LaiTey,  Napoleon's  surgeon,  after 
the  battle  of  Eylan,  found  a  remarkable  insensibility  in  the 
woundpd  who  suffered  amputations,  owing  to  the  intense  cold. 
This  fact  afterwards  led  to  the  application  of  ice  as  a  local  an- 


lyClOOglC 


388  NOTHING   NEW  UNDER  THE   SUN. 

The  former  general  belief  that  a  degree  of  ansesthetic  and 
prolonged  sleep  could  be  induced  artificially  by  certain  medi- 
cated potions  and  preparationa  is  also  shown  by  the  frequency 
with  which  the  idea  is  alluded  to  by  the  older  poete  and  story- 
tellers, and  made  part  of  the  machinery  in  the  popukr  romance 
and  drama.  In  the  history  of  Taliesin,  (one  of  the  antique 
Welsh  tales  contained  in  the  Mabinogion,)  Rhun  is  described  as 
having  put  the  maid  of  the  wife  of  Elphin  into  a  deep  sleep 
with  a  powder  put  into  her  drink,  and  as  having  cut  off  one  of 
her  flugera  when  she  was  in  this  case  of  artificial  anseatheaia. 
Shakspeare,  besides  alluding  more  than  once  to  the  soporific  pro- 
perty of  mandragora,  deaeribes  with  graphic  power  in  Romeo 
and  Juliet,  and  in  Cymbeline,  the  imagined  effects  of  subtle 
distilled  potions  supposed  capable  of  ioducing,  without  danger, 
a  proloi^d  state  of  death-like  sleep  or  lethai^y.  And  Thomas 
Middleton,  in  his  tragedy  of  Women  bewaa-e  Women,  published 
in  1657,  pointedly  and  du^ctly  alludes  in  the  following  lines,  to 
the  practice  of  ansesthesia  in  ancient  su^ery : — 

Hippolilo.    Yes,  my  lord, 
I  make  no  doubt,  hb  I  stall  taJte  the  oourae, 
Which  ahe  shall  nevor  know  till  it  bo  acted  ; 
And  when  she  wakos  to  honor,  then  sho'l!  thank  me  for't. 
ril  imilaie  Ihe  pities  of  old  aitrsmm 
To  this  lost  limb;  who,  C'e  Ihej/ shoa  their  afl, 
Cant  one  asleep,  then  cat  the  diseased  part! 
So  out  of  lore  to  her  I  pitj  most. 


The  following  curious  lines  from  Du  Bartas,  translated  by 
Joshua  Sylvrator(?)  are  also  well  worth  transcribing  m  this 
connection. 

Du  Bartas  died  about  the  year  1590 : — 


Btingeth  his  Patient  in  a  senBeleSB  slumbar: 
And  grieflcss  then  (guidtd  by  Use  and  Art) 
To  save  the  whole  saws  off  th'  infested  part. 


lyGoogle 


NOTHING   NEW   UNDER   THE   SUN.  389 

So  God  ampal'd  our  GrandBire's  (Adam)  liTely  look, 
Through  all  hU  bones  a  deadly  chUness  strook, 
Siel'd-up  hlB  aparliling  eyes  with  Iron  bands. 
Led  doWQ  his  feet  (almost)  to  Lethe's  sandsj 
In  briefB,  so  numm'd  his  Scale's  and  Bodie's  sense. 
That  (without  pain)  opening  his  sida,  from  thenoe 
He  took  a  rib,  whiob  riirely  He  refln'd, 
And  thereof  made  the  Mofher  of  Mankind. 

The  history  of  anesthetics  is  a  remarkahle  illustration  of  the 
acknowledged  fact  that  science  haa  sometimes,  for  a  long  season, 
altogether  lost  sight  of  great  practical  thoughts,  from  being 
unprovided  with  proper  means  and  instruments  for  cairying  out 
those  thoughts  into  practical  execution,  and  hence  it  ever  and 
anon  occurs  that  a  supposed  modem  disu)very  is  only  the  re- 
discovery of  a  prinuple  aheady  suaciently  known  to  other 
ages,  or  to  remote  nitions 

THE  BOOMERANG. 

The  following  paragraph  in  Pliny's  Natural  Sistor^,  xsiv.  72, 
apparently  refers  to  the  Boomerang,  with  whioh,  according  to 
recent  discoveries,  the  early  people  of  the  East  were  acquainted. 
See  Bonomi  s  Nineveh  p  13b  Phny  speaking  of  the  ao  o  t 
given  by  Pythagoras  of  the  Aqmfolui  either  the  h  Jm  oak  i 
the  holly,  sa3rs  — 

oeoiderit  defc  tu   mtonta     psu 


e  cub  tu  propr  us  a,dlab 


(If  B  staff  made  i 


E  wood,  when  thrown 
e  party  throwing  it,  happens  to 
(till  fall  bank  again  towards  the  thrower  of  ita  o 
jre  the  properties  of  this  troe.) 


fall  short  of  tl 


The  readings  of  the  passage  vary,  cabitw  being  given  in  some 
MSS.  for  Tecabita.  Pythagoras  probably  heard  of  the  bacuhim 
during  his  travels  eastward,  Mid  beii^  unable  to  understand  how 
ita  formation  could  endow  it  with  the  singular  property  referred 
to,  was  induced  to  believe  that  this  peculiarity  was  owing  to 
the  nature  of  the  tree. 


lyClOOglC 


390  NOTHING   NEW   UNDER   THE   SUN. 

THE  ATTEACTION   OF    GRAVITATION. 

Both  Dante  and  Shatspeare  preceded  Newton  in  knowledge 
of  the  prmeiple,  if  not  the  law,  of  gravitation.  In  their  ao- 
ticipation  of  its  discovery,  the  poeta  may  not  have  deemed  it 
other  than  a  philosophic  or  poetic  speculation.  But  the  follow- 
ing passages  attest  earlier  observations  of  a  physical  law  than 
those  of  Pascal  or  Newton. 

Shakspeare  says  in  Troilvs  a 


True  [LB  earth  to  its  centre. — iii,  2. 

Three  centuries  before  Shakspeare,  Daate  said  in  the  In/er- 

Thou  dost  imagine  we  are  still 

On  the  other  Bide  the  central  point,  where  I 

Clasped  the  sarth-piereing  worm,  fell  cause  of  ill. 

So  Far  ss  I  ooutlnued  to  dcsoend. 

That  side  we  kept;  but  when  I  turned,  then  we 

Eadpa«sid  thepoinl  lo  vrhieh  all  torfves itiirf. 

Cuulo  xssiv,  106-111. 

EARLY   INVENTION   OF  RIFLING. 

In  Sir  Hugh  Plat's  Jevjf.l-ffouse  of  Art  and  Mature,  1G53, 
(1st  edition  1594)  the  17th  article  runs  thus:— 

Horn  to  make  a  Pistol,  whose  Barrel  is  2  Foot  in  Length,  to 
deliver  a  Bullet  point  blank  at  Eic/htscore. 

A  pistol  of  the  aforesaid  length,  and  being  of  the  petronei 
bore,  or  a  bore  higher,  having  eight  gutters  somewhat  deep  in 
the  inside  of  the  barrel,  and  the  bullet  a  thought  bigger  than 
the  bore,  and  so  rammed  in  at  the  first  three  or  four  inches  at 
the  least,  and  after  driven  down  with  the  scouring  sliek,  will 
deliver  his  bullet  at  such  distance.  This  I  had  of  an  English 
gentleman  of  good  note  for  an  approved  experiment. 


lyClOOglC 


NOTDING   NEW   UNDEE  THE   t 


391 


tabijE-movino  and  alphabet-rappino  in  the  foubth 

CEHTURY. 

The  following  remarkable  narration  is  the  confession  of  a 
conspirator  named  Hilarius,  who  was  accused  of  resorting  to 
unlawful  arts  for  the  purpose  of  diaoovering  who  should  be  the 
sneeessor  to  the  Koman  Emperor  Valens,  who  died  a.d,  378. 
We  are  told  by  Ammianus  MaroeJlinus,  a  contemporary  histo- 
rian,  that,  while  under  torture,  he  thus  addressed  bis  judges : — 
With  direful  rites,  0  august  judges,  we  prepared  this  un- 
fortunate little  table,  which  you  see,  of  laurel  bratiobes,  in  Imi- 
tation of  the  Delphio  cortina,  (or  trtpod,)  and  when  it  had  been 
duly  consecrated  by  imprecation  of  secret  charms  and  many 
long  and  ehoric  ceremonies,  we  at  length  moved  it.  The 
method  of  moving  it,  when  it  was  consulted  on  secret  matters, 
was  as  follows ;  It  was  placed  in  the  midst  of  a  house  purified 
with  Arabian  odors;  upon  it  was.piaced  a  round  dish,  made  of 
various  metallic  substances,  which  had  the  twenty-four  letters 
of  the  alphabet  curiously  engraved  round  the  rim,  at  accurately- 
measured  distances  from  each  other.  One  clothed  with  linan 
garments,  carrying  branches  of  a  sacred  tree,  and  having,  by 
charms  framed  for  the  purpose,  propitiated  the  deity  who  is  the 
giver  of  preBcionce,  places  other  lesser  cortina  on  this  larger 
one,  with  ceremonial  skill.  He  holds  over  them  a  ring  which 
has  been  subjected  to  some  mysterious  preparation,  and  which 
is  suspended  by  a  very  fine  Carpathian  thread.  This  ring, 
passing  over  the  intervals,  and  falling  on  one  letter  after  the 
other,  spells  out  heroic  verses  pertinent  to  the  questions  asked. 
We  then  thus  inquired  who  should  succeed  to  the  government 
of  the  empire.  The  leaping  ring  had  indicated  two  syllables, 
(The-odj)  and  on  the  addition  of  the  last  letter  one  of  the  per- 
sons present  cried  out,  "  Theodorus." 

Theodorus,  and  many  others,  were  executed  for  their  share 
in  this  dark  transaction,  (see  Gibbon;)  but  Theodosius  the 
Great  finally  succeeded  to  the  empire,  and  was,  of  course,  sup. 
posed  to  be  the  person  indicated  by  the  magic  rites.  The 
above  literal  translation  is  given  hj  the  learned  Dr.  Maitland 


lyClOOglC 


392  NOTHING  NEW   UNDEE   THE   SDN. 

in  a  little  book,  latoty  published,  Essay  on  False  Worship, 
Jjondon,  1856.  The  original  was  hardly  intelligible,  till  light 
had  been  thrown  on  it  by  recent  practices,  of  which  we  have  all 
heard  so  much.  The  eoiueidence  is,  to  say  the  least,  extraordi- 
nary, and  opens  t-iewa  which  are  briefly  considered  in  the 
above-mentioned  work. 

AUSCULTATION   AND   PERCUSSION. 

Laenneo  invented  the  stethoscope  and  perfected  his  dis- 
coveries in  the  physical  diagnosis  of  the  diseases  of  the  heart 
and  lungs,  in  181G. 

Avenbrugger  published  his  work  on  Percussion  in  1761. 

One  hundred  and  fifty  years  before  Laenneo's  suddenly  con- 
ceived act  of  applying  a  roll  of  paper  to  the  breast  of  a  female 
patient  gave  birth  to  thoracic  acoustics,  that  ingenious  and 
philosophic  man,  Robert  Hooke,  said  in  his  writings  : — 

"  There  may  be  a  possibility  of  discovering  the  internal 
motions  and  actions  of  bodies  by  the  sound  they  make.  Who 
knows,  but  that  as  in  a  watch  we  may  hear  the  beating  of  the 
balance,  and  the  ruuning  of  the  wheels,  and  the  striking  of 
the  hammers,  and  the  grating  of  the  teeth,  and  a  multitude  of 
other  noises, — who  knows,  I  say,  but  that  it  may  bo  possible  to 
discover  the  motions  of  internal  parts  of  bodies,  whether  ani- 
mal, vegetable,  or  mineral,  by  the  sounds  they  make '! — that  one 
may  discover  the  works  performed  in  the  several  offices  and 
shops  of  a  man's  body,  and  thereby  discover  what  engine  is  out 
of  order,  what  works  are  going  on  at  several  times  and  lie  still 
at  others,  and  the  like?  I  have  this  encouragement  not  to 
think  all  these  things  impossible,  though  never  so  much  de- 
rided by  the  generality  of  men,  and  never  so  seemingly  mad, 
foolish,  and  fantastic,  that  as  the  thinking  them  -  impossible 
cannot  much  improve  my  knowledge,  so  the  believing  them 
possible  may  perhaps  be  an  occasion  for  taking  notice  of  snch 
things  as  another  would  pass  by  without  regard  as  useless,  and 
somewhat  more  of  encouragement  I  have  from  experience  that 
I  have  been  able  to  hear  very  plainly  the  beating  of  a  man's 


lyGoogle 


NOTHINU   NEW    UNDtR   THE   &UN  393 

heait,  and  it  lo  oommon  iu  hear  the  mDtion  of  the  winJ  to  and 
fro  in  the  intestines,  the  stopping  of  the  lung?  is  easily  d  - 
ooTered  by  the  wheezing  As  to  the  motion  it  the  parts  Lue 
among  the  othei,  to  their  becoming  sensible  they  ri4iiiTe 
eithei  that  their  motions  be  increase!  or  that  the  orgin  (the 
eu)  he  made  more  nioe  ^nd  powerfiil,  to  sensate  and  distin 
guish  them  as  ttiey  are  ,  foi  the  doing  of  b  th  which  I  think 
it  is  not  impossible  but  that  in  many  cases  there  may  be  helps 

Sir  David  Brewster,  inquiring  into  the  history  of  the  ste- 
reoscope, finds  that  its  fundamental  principle  was  well  known 
even  to  Euclid ;  that  it  was  distinctly  described  by  Galen  fifteen 
hundred  years  ago ;  and  that  Giambattista  Porta  had,  in  1599, 
given  such  a  complete  drawing  of  tho  two  separate  pictures  as 
seen  by  each  eye,  and  of  the  combined  picture  placed  between 
them,  that  we  recognize  in  it  not  only  the  principle,  but  the 
construction,  of  the  stereoscope. 


THE   DISCOVERY   OP  AMERICA. 

neca,  in  his  Medea,  Act  ii,  thus  shadowed  forth  this  e 
Q  centuries  before  its 


Venient  a 

nnis  Sfficula  seria, 

QuibuE  0 

Laxat,  et 

ugons  palcat  Tellus, 

Tiphjaqu 

novas  detegntorbea; 

Neo  sit  te 

rris  Ultima  Thulo. 

[After  tlie  lapse  of  jenra,  age 

will  oome  in  which  Ocean 

liall  relax  h 

chains  around  the  world,  and  a 

vast  continent  shall  appear, 

and  Tiphjs 

the   pilot— shuU  exploro  new  i 

gions,  aad  Thule  shall  be 

utmost  verge  of  tha  earth.)     . 

"A  prediction,"  says  the  commentator,  "of  the  Spanish 
discovery  of 'America." 

Before  Seneca's  lines  were  written,  Plato  had  narrated  the 
Egyptian  legend  that,  engulfed  in  the  ocean,  but  sometimes 
visible,  was  the  island  of  AtalantJs,  supposed  to  mean  the 
Western  world. 


lyClOOglC 


394  NOTHING    NEW   UNDER   THE   SUN. 

Pulei  the  fuend  of  Lorenzo  de  Mediei,  in  his  Morgante 
Maffgwre,  written  hufore  the  voyage  of  Columbus  and  before 
tlie  physii/al  di'coveriei  of  Gahleo  and  Copernieua,  introduces 
(hn  rerairtable  prophecy,  (alluding  tn  the  vulgar  belief  that 
the  C'olwmns  of  Eertules  were  the  limits  of  the  euth  ) 

Iinnw  that  this  theuir  la  fal'e    hiB  bark 


Albeit  the  earth  is  fashioned  liltB  a  nheel, 
Mnn  was  in  imoient  dajB  of  grosser  mould, 
And  Heroulea  might  bluBt  to  leam  how  far 


Thed 

ulloet  sea^boat  ao 

on  ahall  wing  her  waj. 

Men 

hallde 

er  hemiaphere; 

Since 

to  one 

entro  all  things  tend. 

Soe 

rth,  hy 

jatcrj  divine, 

■Well 

balaneef 

hangs  a 

At  01 

IT  antipo 

dcB  are  o 

ties,  BtBtes, 

And  thronged  empires 

ne'er  divined  of  jore. 

ee,  the 

un  speed 

on  his  nestern  path 

Tog 

ad  the  11 

ations  w 

h  expeoled  light. 

Dante, 

two 

oentur 

es   before,   put    this   language 

into   the 

mouth  of 

Ulysses  :~ 

The  broad  Atlantic  fir 

t  my  keel  impressed. 

Isaw 

the  sin 

era  of  the  west. 

And 

oldlj  t 

uaaddre 

sed  mj  hardy  erew:— 

Whil 

jet  JO 

r  blood  1 

warm,  ray  gallant  train, 

Explore  with  me  the  perils  of  the  main 

And  find  new  worlds  unknown  to  mortal  view. 

.  He  then  proceeds  to  mention  the  discovery  of  a  mountainous 
island,  after  five  months'  sailing. 

The  probability  of  a  short  western  passage  to  India  is  meu- 
tioiied  by  Aristotle,  De  Colo,  ii.,  a  view  confirmed  in  stronger 
terms  afterwards  by  Edrisi,  the  Arabian  geographer,  Strabo, 
Francis  Bacon,  Cardinal  de  Alliaeo  (Imago  Mitndf),  and  Tos- 
canelli. 


lyGoogle 


TRIUMPHS   OS   INGENDITY. 


Etiumpljs  flf  KngEnuitg. 


ih  lAere  were  monj)  gianti  of  old  in  phyiio  and  philosophy, ; 
rfnciu  ^eiii,  "  A  dwarf  standing  on  (is  aho,ild«ra  of  a  gtaa. 
than  a  giant  himeelf. "^Bvirros,  Anat.  of  Melanekoly. 

THE  DISCOVERY   Or  THE   PLANET   NEl-TUNE. 


H 


S     t 


fc 

P 

d    honghtful. 

my     d 

h      gh  whose 

w 

h 

d  mysteries 

e;       w 

P 

d        the  hea. 

P        h 

h      ha  soul,  in 

P 

Uranus,  aa 

y  m 

ver.     He 

d  h 

distnrbing 

h     w 

d  k  own  con. 
d    ompelled 

h       h 

tell  of  the 

h      b 

w 

w      h  no  eye, 

h  d            y 

d  whose  very 

fi           m       p 

m     tal  vision 

p  w 

n 

m         1  oalcuta- 

B         w  htgh         dh  hwhh    pake  the 

g        Ap  h    O  —  F        f  his  dis- 

y,  LV  ffh  tihA     demy;  but 

learned  men,  when  assembled  in  bodies,  give  to  enthusiaata  but 
a  cold  reception.  LeVerrier,  sure  of  his  position,  then  wrote  to 
Dr.  G-alle,  the  Astronomer-Hoyal  in  Berlin,  asking  hjm  to  point 
his  powerful  glass  to  a  certain  quarter  of  the  heavens,  where  must 
be  found  at  that  time  the  last  of  tlie  planets.  And  there  it  was; 
and  thence  it  was  traced  upon  its  mighty  way,  bending,  like 


lyClOOglC 


8  HUH 

w          Ii    d              fl  be  sun. 

'£  mlig  ffg  hh.gh     that   Le 

hdh        bnd       d        fid  h    of  the 

ub  m             tow    d    wh    t  h             h  d  b  g    eaning 

dwhhhJ             g            W                  mta  It  was, 

hw           a                       ?s              hdrs  wu      ha^e 

idhmwhh        g          dbyh         wh  bed  teeted 

by          n            h      h       p       d  n              n  n  y  one  of 

hmmfid                       md          m  beautiful 

n        h    g  g  p  w       f 

T       d                    N  p                      h        n  0  000,000 

h                 1       d                   b  al  n,  164 

I  4    5  0m 

THt  DISCOVERY  OF   THE  PIuVNE      VC         N 

Levevrier,  encouraged  and  made  illustrious  by  hia  success  in 
exploring  thc«e  infinite  epaeea  beyond  the  orbit  of  Hersehel, 
turned  bis  attention  to  the  innermost  circles — ^the  central  region 

f  u  1  J  torn  By  th  t  1  dem  t  atioos,  based  on 
It         QhmmutBfM  J    be  proyed   the 

St  f       m     I  Ian  t        j  1      ts  ly  1 11  more  closely 

w  th  th  1  ht  nd  1  t  f  tl  n  \\  1  le  proceeding  with 
h         lit  h  dalttfrmL    carbaull^-a  poor 

pi  y  f  0     S         a      11  g  th     d  p  rtment  of   Eure 

d  L  n  F        e —  nn  th     d         ery  of  an  intra- 

M  Jj  -d  >  dy  nat  g  ta  t  a  t  n  pp  nee  like  a  small 
bl    k   p  t  a       8  th    d   k    f  th       n     P  ed  of  a  sensitive 

and  modest  soul,— as  all  true  lovers  of  science  are, — the  doctor 
at  first  doubted  the  reality  of  his  discovery,  and  hesitated  to 
make  it  known.  It  was  only  after  vainly  waiting  nine  months, 
to  verify  his  observation  by  another  view  of  the  object,  that  he 
prepared  a  letter,  narrating  what  be  thought  he  had  seen,  and 
sent  it  to  the  great  Leverrier.  The  latter  had  just  published 
an  article  on  Mercury's  perturbations  in  the  Eosmos  of 
Paris.  Astonished  at  this  coincident  proof  of  the  correctness 
of  his  theory,  ho  lost  no  time  in  starting  for  the  village  of 


lyClOOglC 


TRIUMPHS    OF   INGENUITY.  397 

Org&ros,  to  obtain  a  persooal  interview  with  the  humble  dis- 
coverer of  the  new  orb.  Tte  following  aeoounfc  of  the  meeting 
was  reported  in  the  Kosmos  by  the  Ahb^  Moigne,  who  took 
it  from  the  lips  of  Leyerrier  himself: — 

LeTcrrier  left  Paris  for  Orgfires,  in  company  with  Yallee, 
four  days  after  the  date  of  Lesearbault's  letter.  Org6res  was 
twelve  milea  from  the  nearest  railroad-station,  and  the  party 
had  to  foot  it  across  the  country.  On  their  arrival,  Leverricr 
knocked  loudly  at  the  door,  which  was  opened  by  the  doctor 
himself  J  but  his  visitor  declined  to  give  his  name.  The  simple, 
modest,  timid  Lescarbault,  small  in  stature,  stood  abashed 
before  the  tall  Leverrier,  who,  in  blunt  intonation,  addressed 
him  thus  :  "  It  is  you,  then,  air,  who  pretend  to  have  discovered 
the  intra- Mercurial  planet,  and  who  have  committed  the  grave 
offence  of  keeping  your  discovery  secret  for  nine  months !  I 
come  to  do  justice  to  your  pretensions,  to  warn  you  that  you 
have  either  been  dishonest  or  deceived.  Tell  me  unequivocally 
what  you  have  seen."  The  lamb-like  doctor,  trembling  at  this 
rude  summons,  stammered  out  the  following  reply; — 

"On  the  26th  of  March  (1859),  about  four  o'clock,  I  turned 
my  telescope  to  the  sun,  when,  to  my  surprise,  I  saw,  at  a  small 
distance  from  its  margin,  a  black  spot,  well  defined,  and  per- 
fectly round,  advancing  upon  the  disk  of  the  sun.  A  customer 
called  me  away,  and,  hurrying  him  off  as  fest  as  I  could,  I 
came  back  to  my  glass,  when  I  found  the  round  spot  had  con- 
tinued its  transit,  and  I  saw  it  disappear  from  the  opposite 
margin  of  the  siin,  after  a  projection  upon  it  of  an  hour  and  a 
half.  I  did  not  seize  the  precise  moment  of  contact.  The 
spot  was  on  the  disk  when  I  first  saw  it,  I  measured  ita  dis- 
tance from  the  margin,  and  counted  the  time  it  took  to  make 
the  same  distance,  and  so  approximated  the  instant  of  its 
entry."  "  To  count  time  is  easy  to  say,"  said  Leverrier;  "  but 
where  is  your  chronometer  ?"  "  My  chronometer  is  this 
watch,  that  beats  only  minutes, — the  faithful  companion  of  my 
professional  labors."  "  What !  with  that  old  watch  ?  How  dare 
you   talk  of  counting  seconds  ?    My  suspicions  are  too  well 


lyGoogle 


398  TEIUMPirS   OF  ingenijity. 

founded."  "Pardon  me,  sir,  but  I  have  a  pendulum  thai 
nearly  beats  secoada,  and  I  will  bring  it  down  to  show  jou." 
He  goes  above-stairs  and  brings  down  a  silken  thread,  tbi! 
upper  end  of  which  he  fastens  to  a  nail,  ajid  brings  to  rest  the 
ivory  ball  at  the  lower  end.  He  then  starts  it  from  the  verti- 
cal, and  its  oscillations  beat  seconds  very  nearly.  "  This  is 
not  enough,  sir  :  how  do  jou  count  these  seconds  while  in  the 
act  of  observing  ?"  "  My  profession  is  to  feel  pulses  and 
count  their  pulsations,  and  my  pendulum  puts  my  seconds  into 
my  ears,  and  I  have  no  difficulty  in  counting  them." 

"  But  where  is  your  telescope  ?"  The  doctor  showed  Lever- 
rier  his  glass,  which  was  one  of  Cauchoii's  best.  It  was  four 
inches  in  diameter,  and  mounted  on  a  rude  stand.  He  took  the 
wondering  astronomer-imperial  to  his  roof,  where  he  waa  build- 
ing a  rude  revolving  platform  and  dome.  "  This  is  all  very  well; 
but  where  is  your  original  memorandum?"  The  doctor  ran  and 
got  Ills  almanac,  or  Ootmaissance  des  Temps,  and  in  it  he  finds 
a.  square  piece  of  paper,  used  as  a  marker,  and  on  it,  all  covered 
with  greaseand  laudanum,  is  the  original  memorandum!  "But 
you  have  falsified  the  time  of  emergence.  It  is  four  minutes 
too  late  by  this  memorandum."  "It  isj  but  the  four  minutes 
are  the  error  of  my  watch,  which  I  corrected  bysidereal  time, 
by  the  aid  of  this  little  telescope." 

"  But  how  did  you  determine  the  two  angular  co-ordinates 
of  the  point  of  contact,  of  the  entry  and  emergence  of  the 
planet,  and  how  did  you  measure  the  chord  of  the  arc  between 
them?"  Having  explained  the  simple  method  which  he 
pursued  in  the  premises  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  astronomer, 
the  latter  next  inquired  after  his  rough  drafts  of  calculation 
for  determining  the  distance  of  the  planet  from  the  sun.  "  My 
rough  draughts  !  Paper  is  scarce  with  us.  I  am  a  joiner  as 
well  as  an  astronomer.  I  writ*  on  my  boards,  and  when  I  am 
done,  I  plane  them  off  and  begin  again ;  but  I  think  I  have 
preserved  them."  On  visiting  the  shop,  they  found  the  board, 
with  all  its  lines  and  numbers  still  un  obi  iterated  ! 

The  Parisian  savant  was  now  convinced  that  Lescarbault 


lyClOOglC 


TRIUMPHS   OF   INGENUITY.  ggg 

tad  really  seen  the  planet  whose  existence  he  had  himself 
foretold.  Tarning  to  the  amateur  aetronomer,  he  revealed  hia 
personality,  aad  congratulated  hia  humble  brother  on  the  mag- 
nificent discovery  thus  confirmed.  It  was  the  event  in  the 
Org^res  physician's  life.  Honors  poured  in  upon  him.  The 
cross  of  the  Legion  of  Honor  was  sent  to  him  from  Paris,  and 
his  name  was  at  once  enrolled  in  the  lists  of  the  leading 
scientific  academies  of  Europe. 

The  new  orb,  whose  revolution  is  perforrued  in  19  days,  17 
hours,  has  been  felicitously  named  Vulcan.  If  objection  he 
offered  to  the  selection  of  names  for  the  planets  from  "  Olympus' 
dread  hierarchy,"  it  must  at  least  be  acknowledged  that  there 
is  a  peculiar  fitness  in  their  distribution. 

INGENIOUS   STRATAGEM   OF  COLUMBUS. 
Thon  Imtller  of  the  darkened  deep  ! 

Wbiisa  courage  broke  earUi's  bigot  sloop. 
While  thideunbaired  the  aea! 
During  the  fourth  voyage  of  Oolura bus,  while  prosecuting 
his  discoveries  among  the  West  India  Islands  and  along  the 
coast  of  the  continent,  his  ves^eh,  from  continual  subjection  to 
tempestuous  weather,  and  being,  to  use  his  own  expression, 
"bored  by  the  worms  as  full  of  holes  as  a  honey-comb,"  were 
reduced  to  mere  wrecks,  unable  any  longer  to  keep  the  sea,  and  ■ 
were  finally  stranded  on  the  shore  of  Jam^ca  Being  beyond 
the  possibility  of  repiir,  they  were  fitted  up  for  the  temporary 
use  of  Columbus,  who  was  in  feeble  health,  and  of  such  of  his 
crew  as  were  disabled  by  sickness,  those  who  were  well  being 
sent  abroad  for  assistance  and  supplies.  Their  immediate 
wants  were  amply  provided  for,  Diego  Mendez  having  made 
arrangements  with  the  natives  for  a  daily  exchange  of  knives, 
combs,  beads,  fish-hooks,  &o.,  for  cassava  bread,  fish,  and  other 
provisions.  In  the  course  of  a  short  time,  however,  provisions 
on  the  island  became  scarce,  and  the  supplies  began  gradually 
to  fall  off:  The  arrangements  for  the  daily  delivery  of  certain 
quantities  were  irregularly  attended  to,  and  finally  ceased  en- 


lyClOOglC 


400  TUniMPHS   OF  INGENUITY. 

tiraly.  The  Indians  no  longer  thronged  to  t!ie  harbor  with 
provisions,  and  often  refused  them  when  applied  for.  The 
Spaniards  were  obliged  to  forage  about  the  neighborhood  for 
their  daily  food,  bnt  found  more  and  more  difficulty  in  pro- 
curing it ;  and  now,  in  addition  to  their  other  causes  of  despond- 
ency, they  began  to  entertain  horrible  apprehensions  of 
famine 

Ibe  admiral  heard  the  melancholy  forebodings  of  his  men, 
and  beheld  the  growing  evil,  but  was  at  a  loss  for  a  remedy. 
To  resort  to  foroe  was  an  alternative  full  of  danger,  and  of  bat 
temponry  efficacy.  It  would  require  all  those  who  were  well 
enough  to  b  rat       Uy  f  rth      bib        d  th        t    f  h 

infiim  would  b    1  tt  d  f        1  b      d  tl  k       p      1 


the  venqein       f  th        t 

In  the  m        t  m     th             ty  !    ly 

d     lb    I    1 

perceived  th    w     t      f  tl     wh      m 

1  h  1  1          If 

them  the  art    f  m  k    ^  b                   Tb  y 

k  d  t        tm 

former  qua  t  ty    f  L      p            t   1      t 

g 

proviMoni       d  b        bt  tb           ppl 

tjq      t 

inhmce  the      a               f  tl      8p          d 

A    1        h 

reln.f  cease  1        d  tl         w              b    1 

d   t        f     w 

tood,  the  nat        w  hi   Id    g    11  p 

h  p          h 

starving  the    dm     1      d  h     p    pi 

f  d         g   th  m  t 

the  island. 

In  this  e  t        ty      f    t      t     d         dd    Ij  p         t  d    t    If 
to  Columbus    Emhkwld       ft        myh  t       d 

that  within  th  d  y  th  w  1 1  b  t  1  1  p  f  th 
in  the  early  part  of  the  night.  He  sent,  therefore,  an  Indian  of 
the  island  of  Ilispaniola,  who  served  as  his  interpreter,  to  sum- 
mon the  principal  caciques  to  a  grand  conference,  appointing  for 
it  the  day  of  the  eclipse.  When  all  were  assembled,  be  told 
them,  by  his  interpreter,  that  he  and  his  followers  were  worship- 
pers of  a  deity  who  lived  in  the  skies;  that  this  deity  favored  such 
as  did  well,  but  punished  all  transgressors;  that,  as  they  must 
all  have  noticed,  he  had  protected  Diego  Mendez  and  his  com- 
panions in  their  voyage,  they  having  gone  in  obedience  to  the 


lyClOOglC 


TRIUMPHS   OF  INGENUITY. 


401 


kinds  of  c 


irlers  of  tlieir  commander  but  that  on  the  other  L  nd  ho 
■Hited  Francisco  de  Poiraa  and  his  compan  ons  with  all 
d  afflictions  la  coasequence  of  their  rebel 
litu,  that  this  great  deity  was  incensed  aga  nat  the  Indians 
who  h'id  refuse  1  or  neglected  to  furniah  his  faithtul  worship- 
pers with  proyisiDns  and  intendel  to  chastise  them  with  pesti 
1  ncc  aad  f  mme  Lest  they  shcuJd  diBbeheve  this  warn  ns;  i 
signil  woil  1  he  given  that  very  night  m  the  heavens  Ihey 
would  behold  the  moon  chinge  its  color  and  gradually  lise  its 
light, — a  loken  ot  the  fearlul  punishment  which  awiited  them 

Many  of  the  Indians  were  alarmed  at  the  sDlemnit}  of  this 
prediction  oihers  treated  it  with  scoffing  ill  however  waited 
with  sohcHude  the  co  nmg  of  the  night  and  none  with  more 
thin  Colun  bus  himself  wh  was  d  straeted  with  anxiety  les,t 
the  weather  skull  prove  eloudy  cr  rimy  Imagine  his  gpati 
tude  wlen  the  eveiing  sty  appeired  undimmed  by  a  clou  1 
When  the  timi,  arrned  an!  the  natives  beheld  a  dirt  shidow 
stealing  over  the  moon,  they  began  to  tremble  Thar  fears 
increased  with  the  progiess  of  the  ellipse ,  and  when  th  y  9iw 
mysterious  darkness  covering  the  whole  fdce  of  nature,  theie 
wete  no  bounds  to  then  terror  Seizing  ii[on  wh^tever  provi 
sions  they  could  procure,  they  hurried  to  the  ships  uttering 
eriea  and  hraentations  They  threw  themselves  at  the  feet  of 
Columbus  imploied  him  to  intercede  with  hn  God  to  avert 
the  threatened  calamities  and  assuied  him  that  thineeforth 
they  would  bring  him  whatever  he  lequired  Columbus  tol  1 
them  that  he  wiuld  retire  and  commune  with  the  deily  &hut 
log  himself  up  in  his  o^bin,  he  lemamed  there  dutmg  the  in 
crease  of  the  eclipse,  the  forests  and  >hores  all  the  while  re 
sounding  with  the  howhngs  and  supplications  of  the  sivages 
When  the  ellipse  wis  about  to  dimmish,  he  came  hiih  and 
mformed  the  natives  that  he  h%A  interceded  fcr  them  with  his 
G-od,  who,  tn  condition  of  their  fulfilling  their  promises,  ha  I 
d  tj  pard  n  them,  in  sign  ot  which  he  would  withdraw 
a  from  the  mjon 
When  the  Indians  saw  that  planet  restored  pio=entiy  to  its 


lyClOOglC 


402  TBIUMPnS   OF   INGEXUITr. 

1  nghtne^-^  and  rolling  iQ  all  its  beautj  thiough  the  finnampnt, 
rlii.y  01  erwheltned  the  admiral  with  thinks  f  Dr  his  mtsrcessun 
itid  repaired  tj  their  homes  pyM  at  huing  escaped  •'uch 
^Teat  disisten  Tbpy  now  le^arlcd  Columbus  with  awp  and 
reverence  aa  a  man  in  tl  e  peculiar  fwor  and  confidence  ot  the 
Dtity,  since  he  knew  upon  eirth  what  was  passing  in  the  hei 
vens  They  hi-^tiined  to  propitiate  him  with  giff"  suppjiei 
again  jrrued  daily  it  the  hartor,  inl  trim  thit  tune  forward 
there  waa  no  wmt  of  piovisions 

A  LESSON   WORTH   JEAHNING 

The  poosibihty  of  a  great  change  being  intioilueed  by  veiy 
alight  beginnings  may  be  illnstiatod  by  i  tale  which  Lockinin 
tells  of  a  vizier  who,  having  offende  1  his  master,  waa  con 
iernned  to  peipetml  captivity  m  a  lofty  tower  At  night  his, 
wife  came  to  weep  below  his  window  "  Cease  your  grief 
said  the  ^e  "  go  home  f  i  the  present,  and  return  hither 
when  you  h  we  procured  a  live  blacl-  beetle,  together  with  a 
httle  ffkee  [re  buffalo  b  huttPi  ]  three  lIqws  —one  of  the  fin^^it 
flill.,  auoChi,r  of  stout  pack  thread,  anl  another  of  whip  cord 
finally,  a  stjut  coil  of  rope '  When  she  again  i,ime  to  the  io  t 
tf  the  tower,  provided  locorbnc;  to  her  husband's  demanli 
ho  d  reoted  her  to  tiuob  tht  heid  of  the  insect  with  a  little  of 
the  yJtee,  to  tie  one  end  of  the  silk  thread  around  him  in  1 
to  place  him  on  the  wall  of  the  tower  Attracted  by  the 
omell  if  the  butter  whiab  he  conceive!  ti  be  in  store  SDmi 
mheri,  above  hiin,  the  beetle  continued  to  aaoend  till  he  leached 
the  t  p  ind  thus  put  the  vi^ier  in  possession  of  the  end  of  the 
silk  thread,  who  drew  up  the  pauk  thread  by  mems  ot  the  «ilk, 
the  small  cord  by  means  of  the  pack-thread,  and,  by  means  of 
the  cord,  a  stout  rope  capable  of  sustaining  his  own  weight, — ■ 
and  so  at  last  escaped  from  the  place  of  his  duress. 

CHOOSING  A  KING. 

The  Tyrians  having  been  much  weakened  by  long  wars  with 
the  Persians,  their  alaves  rose  in  a  body,  slew  their  masters  and 


lyClOOglC 


TRIUMPnS   OF 


403 


tteir  etilJren,  touk  possession  of  their  property,  and  married 
their  wives.  Ilie  slaves,  having  thus  obtained  ererjtliiug, 
consulted  about  the  choice  of  a  king,  and  agreed  tliat  he  who 
should  first  discern  the  sun  rise  should  be  king.  One  of  them, 
being  more  merciful  than  the  rest,  bad  in  the  general  massacre 
spared  Lis  master,  Stvaton,  and  his  son,  whoni  he  hid  in  a  cave ; 
and  to  his  old  master  he  now  resorted  for  advice  as  to  this  com- 
petition. 

Straton  advised  his  slave  that  when  others  looked  to  the 
east  he  should  look  toward  the  west.  Accordingly,  when  the 
rebel  tribe  had  all  assembled  in  the  fields,  and  every  man's 
eyes  were  fixed  upon  the  east,  Straton's  slave,  turning  his  back 
upon  the  rest,  looked  only  westward.  He  was  seofibd  at  by 
every  one  for  his  absurdity,  but  immediately  he  espied  the  sun- 
beams upon  the  high  towers  and  chimneys  in  the  city,  and,  an- 
nouncing the  discovery,  claimed  the  crown  as  his  reward. 

KING  JOHN  AND  THE   ABBOT. 
An  old  (md  fornterl^  verj/  papular  baUad. — Per*^  Seliqueg, 


Foi 


1  nolable  prince,  that 
}ie  rulstl  England  wi 
he  did  great  wion^ 


lined  litllo  i 


And  lie  tell  you  a  story,  a  atorj  eo  merrye, 
ConQerning  the  Abbot  of  Canterburyoi 
Mow  for  his  house-keeping,  and  high  ronowns 
H'h&y  j^ad^  poste  for  him  to  liur  London  towQ( 
An  hundred  men,  tlie  king  did  henre  Btij, 
The  abbot  kept  in  hia  house  every  day ; 
And  fifty  gold  chaynes,  without  any  donbt^ 
In  Tcltet  coates  waited  the  abbot  aboHt. 
How  now,  ather  abbot,  I  hesre  it  of  thee. 
Thou  keepeat  a  farre  hetlet  house  tban  mee. 
And  for  thy  house-lieeping  and  bigh  renowne, 
I  fear  thou  work'st  treason  against  my  irown. 
My  liege,  quo'  the  abbo^  I  would  it  were  kno- 
And  I  trust  jou 


will  doe  me  no  dei 

ae  tjue-gotten  gee 


lyGoogle 


TRIUMPHS  OF  INOENPITY. 

Yea,  jea,  fatter  aibot,  yoor  fault  H  Is  highe. 
And  now  for  the  same  thon  needaal  must  dja; 
Por  except  than  eiuist  anawer  me  qucetiona  three, 
Tliy  head  ahaH  be  amitten  from  thy  bodie. 
And  flrat,  quo'  tho  kiDg,  when  I'm  Id  this  stead. 
With  my  crowna  of  goldo  so  faire  on  my  head, 
Among  all  my  liege-men  so  nobla  of  birthe, 
Thon  must  toll  mo  to  one  penny  what  I  am  irortlie. 
Saoondlye,  tell  me,  nitlioDl;  any  doubly 
How  aoono  I  may  ride  the  whole  world  about; 
And  at  tbo  third  question  Ihon  must  not  shrink. 
But  tell  me  here  truly  what  I  do  tbink. 

0,  these  are  bard  qnestions  for  ray  shallow  witt, 


B«  do  my  endaavonr  to  ai 


Thy  lands  and  thy  livings  are  forfeit  to  mee. 

Away  rode  the  abbot,  all  sod  at  that  word. 
And  be  rode  to  Cambridge  and  Oienfordj 
But  never  a  doctor  there  was  so  wise 
That  could  with  his  learning  an  answer  dovi 

Then  homo  rode  the  abbot,  of  comfort  ao  cold 
And  be  mett  his  ehepheard  agoing  to  fold : 
How  now,  my  lord  abbot,  you  are  welcome  hi 
What  newea  do  you  bring  us  from  good  Kinc 


That  I  hBTe  but  three  daya  more  to  live] 
For  if  I  do  not  anawor  him  queations  three. 
My  head  will  be  smitten  from  my  bodia. 

The  first  Is  to  loll  him  there  in  that  stead. 
With  hia  crowne  of  golde  so  fair  on  hia  head, 
Among  all  his  liego-men  ao  noble  of  birtbe. 
To  withm  one  penny  of  what  he  ia  worthe. 


lyClOOglC 


TRIUMPH 3  OE  INGENUITY, 
e  up,  sire  abliot:  did  you  never  hear  yol^ 


7,  frovrne  not,  if  it  hatli  &in  lold  unto  mee 
m  liko  yoot  lordehip,  aa  aver  may  beo; 
i  if  you  will  but  lend  me  your  gowne, 
are  is  none  shall  knowe  us  in  fair  London  I 


Now  liorses  and  se 


Now  vrelcome,  sire  abbol,  the  hing  he  did  Bay, 
'Tis  well  thon'rt  come  baot  to  kuepe  thy  day; 
For  and  if  tliou  oanst  answer  my  questiofis  three, 
Ihy  life  and  thy  living  both  saved  shall  bee. 


And  Srst^  when  thou  sf 


For  thirty  ponce  our  Saviour  was  sold 
Among  the  false  Jowes,  as  I  have  bin  told,' 
And  twenty-nine  is  the  worth  of  tbee, 
For  I  think  thou  art  one  penny  worser  than  h 

The  king  he  laoghed,  and  swore  by  St.  Bitte!, 
I  did  not  think  I  had  been  worth  eo  littel! 
How,  BPOondly,  Icll  me,  without  any  doubt. 
How  Eoouo  I  may  ride  this  whole  world  about 


Until  the  next 
And  then  your 
But  In 


■four  hours  youll  ride  i 


The  king  he  langhed,  and  awore  by  St  Jone, 

I  did  not  think  it  oonld  be  gone  eo  aoone! 

Now,  from  the  third  question  then  must  not  EhrlBka, 


■e  tinly  what  I  do  lliinfce. 
Yea,  that  shall  I  do,  and  make  your  gi 
Tou  thinks  I'm  the  abbot  of  Canterbui 
But  Tm  his  poor  shepbeard,  as  plain  y 


6  morryj 
may  so(^ 


lyClOOglC 


THE  FANCIES    OF  PACT. 

The  king  bo  tsaghed,  and  snore  b;  tbe  masM, 
lis  maJie  tbee  lord  abbot  tbia  day  in  bis  place  I 
Naje  Doyer  my  liege,  be  not  in  auch  speede, 

Four  nobles  a  woek,  then,  I  will  giro  Itee, 

And  tell  tbe  old  abbot,  nhcn  thou  oomost  home, 

Thou  baal  brought  him  a  pardon  from  good  King  John. 


€^t  J^ancies  of  jff^tl 

THE 'WOUNDS    OF  JULIUS   C^SAR. 

"  Look  1  in  this  plaoe  ran  Caasiua'  dagger  through : 
See  what  a  rent  the  enviouB  Caaoa  made  : 
Through  this  the  wcll-bolovcd  Brutus  stabbed." 

At  a  meeting  of  the  French  Academy  of  Medicine,  a  few 
years  ago,  a  curious  paper  was  read,  on  behalf  of  M.  Ihibois,  of 
Amiens,  entitled  "Investigations  into  the  death  of  Julius 
Cfflsar."  M!  Dubois  having  looked  up  the  various  passages  re- 
ferring to  this  famous  hiatorio  incident  to  be  found  in  Dion 
Cassios,  Plutarch,  Suetonius,  Appian,  &c.,  and  compared  them 
with  one  another,  has  fixed  the  spots  where  tho  four  first 
wounds  were  inflicted,  and  the  names  of  the  conspirators  who 
inflicted  them.  The  first  blow,  struck  by  one  of  tte  brothers 
Casca,  produced  a  slight  wound  underneath  the  left  clavicle; 
the  second,  struck  by  tbe  other  Casca,  penetrated  the  walls 
of  the  thorax  toward  the  right;  Cassius  inflicted  the  third 
wound  iu  the  face.  Decimus  Brutus  gave  the  fourth  stab  in 
the  regiou  of  the  groin.  Contrary  to  tbe  general  opinion, 
Marcus  Brutus,  though  one  of  the  conspirators,  did  not  strike 
the  dictator.  After  the  flrst  blows  Ciesar  fainted,  and  then  all 
tbe  conspirators  hacked  his  body.  He  was  earned  by  three 
slaves  in  a  litter  to  his  house.     Anstistius,  the  physician,  was 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT.  407 

called  in  and  found  thirty-fiye  wounds,  only  one  of  which  was 
in  hia  opinion  fatal,  that  of  the  second  Casca. 

BILLS   FOR   STUANGE   SERVICES. 

The  bill  of  tlie  Cirencester  painter,  mentioned  bj  Bishop 
Home,  {Essays  and  Thoughts,')  is  as  follows: — 

Mr.  Charles  TerrehBe 

To  Joseph  Couk,  Dr. 


To  roandin 


■  tho( 


snts,  I 


£1_1_0 


Here  is  a  Carpenter's  bill  of  the  Fifteenth   Century,  copied 
from  the  records  of  an  old  London  Ohnich: — 


To  rapajriDg  y  Vyrginna 
Marye  before  and  behjjide, 
ifc  makjDge  a  new  Chylde 


LAW   LOGIC. 

Judge  Blackstone  says,  in  his  Commentaries  (Vol.  i.  c 
xviii.),  that  every  Bishop,  Pmbou  or  Vicar  is  a  Gorporatio'. 
Lord  Coke  asserts,  in  his  Eeports  (10.  Rep-  32,)  that  "  a  Co 
poration,  has  no  soul."  Upon  these  premise,  the  logical  ii 
ferenee  would  be  that  neither  Bishops,  Parsons  nor  Vicars  hai 


RECIPROCAL   CONVEESION. 

A  curious  case  of  mixed  process  of  conversation  was  that  of 
the  two  brothers,  Dr,  John  Reynold's,  King's  Professor  at  Ox- 
ford, in  1630,  a  zealous  Roman  Catholic,  and  Dr.  Wm.  Reynolds, 
an  eminent  Protestant. '  They  were  both  learned  men,  and  as 
brothers  held  such  affectionate  relations,  that  the  deadly  here-, 
sies  of  which  each  regarded  the  other  as  the  victim  were  matters 
of  earnest  and  pleading  remonstrance  between  them  by  discus- 
sion and  correspondence.     The  pains  and  zed  of  each  were 


lyClOOglC 


408  THE   FANCIES   OF  PACT. 

equally  rewarded.  Tho  Koman  CathoHc  brother  beeame  an 
ardent  Protestant,  and  the  Protestant  hrother  became  a  Roman 
Catholic, 

PITHV   PRAYER. 

We  are  indebted  to  Hume  for  tho  preserration  of  a  short 
prayer,  which  he  says  was  that  of  Lord  Astley,  before  he  chained 
at  Bdge-hill.  It  ran  thus:  "0  Lord,  thoa  knowest  how  busy  I 
must  be  this  day;  if  I  forget  thee,  do  not  thou  forget  me."-  And 
Hume  adds,  "There  were  certainly  much  longer  prayera  in  the 
Parliamentary  army,  but  I  doubt  if  there  was  as  good  a  one." 

MELROSE   BY   SUNLIGHT. 

The  beautiful  description  of  the  appearance  of  the  ruins  of 
Melrose  Abbey  by  moonlight,  in  the  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel, 
has  led  thousands  to  visit  the  scene  "  when  silver  edges  the 
imagery,"  yet  it  is  worth  notmg  that  the  author  nerer  saw  the 
ruined  pile  by  "the  pale  moonlight."  Bernard  Bartoa  once 
wrote  to  Scott  to  request  him  to  fltvor  a  young  lady  with  a  copy 
of  the  lines  in  his  own  handwriting.  Sir  "Walter  complied, 
but  substituted  for  the  concluding  lines  of  the  original  the 
following : — 

"Than  go— and  mase  with  deepest  awe 


BACK   ACTION. 

Alphonse  Karr,  in  his  (?«gpes,  speaking  of  the  dexterities 
of  the  legal  profession,  relates  a  pleasant  anecdote  of  the  dis- 
tinguished lawyer,  afterward  deputy,  M.  Chais  d'Es^Ange.  He 
was  employed  in  a  case  where  both  the  parties  were  old  men. 
Keferring  to  his  client,  he  said :  "  He  has  attained  that  age, 
when  tho  mind,  freed  from  the  passions,  and  tyranny  of  the 
body,  takes  a  higher  flight,  and  soars  in  a  purer  and  serener 
air."     Later  in  his  speech,  he  found  occasion  to  allude  to  the 


lyClOOglC 


THE  FANCIES   OF   FACT  409 

(^poslte  party,  of  whom  ho  remarked:  ''I  do  not  deny  liis 
natural  intelligence;  but  he  has  reached  an  age  in  whith  the 
mind  participates  in  the  enfeeblement,  the  decrepitude,  and  the 
a  of  the  body." 


THE    ATTriT<  EIUMs   OF  THE   LAST   CENTURY. 

Wlien  we  read  ot  Patrick  Henry's  wonderful  displays  of 
eloquenoe,  we  naturally  figure  to  ourselves  a  spacious  interior 
and  a  great  ciowd  of  rapt  hs(«nera  But,  in  truth,  those  of  his 
orations  which  quickened  or  changed  the  march  of  eventa,  and 
the  thrill  of  which  has  been  felt  in  the  nerves  of  four  generations, 
wore  all  delivered  in  small  rooms  and  to  few  hearers,  never  more 
than  one  hundred  and  fifty.  The  firet  thought  of  the  visitor  to 
St.  John's  Church  in  Eiehmond,  is:  Could  it  have  been  here,  in 
this  oaken  chapel  of  fifty  or  sixty  pews,  that  Patrick  Henry 
delivered  the  greatest  and  best  known  of  all  his  speeches  ?  Was 
it  here  that  he  uttered  those  words  of  doom,  so  unexpected,  so 
unwelcome,  "We  must  fight"?  Bvea  here.  And  the  words 
were  spoken  in  a  tone  and  manner  worthy  of  the  men  to  whom 
thoj  were  addressed — with  quiet  and  p     " 


TRUE   TORM   OF  THE   CROSS. 

The  ancient  and  ignominious  punishment  of  crucifixion  was 
abolished  hy  the  Boman  Emperor  Constantine  the  Great,  who 
thought  it  indecent  and  Irreli^ous  that  the  Cross  should  be 
used  for  the  putting  to  death  of  the  vilest  oflenders,  while  he 
himself  erected  it  as  a  trophy,  and  esteemed  it  the  noblest 
ornament  of  his  diadem  and  military  standards.  In  conse- 
quence of  his  decree,  crucifixion  has  scarcely  been  witnessed  in 
Europe  for  the  last  1500  years.  Those  painters,  sculptors, 
poeta  and  writens  who  have  attempted  to  describe  it  have, 
therefore,  followed  their  own  imagination  or  vague  tradition 
rather  than  the  evidence  of  history.  But  they  coidd  hardly 
do  otherwise,  because  the  writings  of  the  early  fathers  of  the 
Church  and  of  pagan  historians  were  not  generally  accessible 


lyClOOglC 


410  THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 

to  them  until  after  the  revival  of  learning  in  the  Fifteenth 
Century,  and  becaTiao  the  example  of  depleting  the  cross  once 
given  had  been  religioiisly  followed  hj  the  earliest  paintera  and 
aovilptors,  and  universally  accepted  without  question;  and  to 
object  to  the  generally  received  form  would  have  been  deemed 
eacrile^oua.  These  two  reasons  may  have  been  su£E.oient  to 
deter  the  great  artists  of  the  Sixteeath  and  Seventeenth 
Centuries  from  making  any  change;  there  may,  however,  have 
been  a  third,  quite  as  potent  (if  not  more  so),  and  that  is  that 
the  introduction  of  the  lower  projecting  beam,  astride  of  which 
the  crucified  person  was  sealed,  would  have  been  both  inartistic 
and  indecent,  yet  this  third  piece  was  invariably  used  when  the 
punidiment  was  inflicted,  except  in  the  case  where  the  sufl'erev 
was  crucified  with  the  head  downward.  The  researches  of  two 
eminent  scholars  of  the  Seventeenth  Centuiy — Salinasius  and 
Lipsius — ^have  put  it  beyond  a  doubt  that  the  cross  consisted  of 
a  strong  upright,  post,  not  much  t^er  than  a  man  of  lofty 
stature,  which  was  sharpened  at  the  lower  end,  by  which  it 
was  fixed  into  the  ground,  having  a  short  bar  or  stake  pi-o- 
jccting  from  its  middle,  and  a  longer  transverse  boara  firmly 
joined  to  the  upright  post  near  the  top.  The  condemned  per- 
son was  made  to  carry  his  cross  to  the  place  of  execution,  after 
having  been  first  whipped;  he  was  then  stripped  of  his 
clothing,  and  offered  a  cup  of  medicated  wine,  to  impart  firm- 
ness or  alleviate  pain.  He  was  then  made  to  sit  astride  the 
middle  bar,  and  his  limbs,  having  been  bound  with  cords,  the 
legs  to  the  upright  beam,  the  arms  to  the  transverse,  were 
finally  secured  by  driving  large  iron  spikes  through  the  hands 
and.  feet.  The  cross  was  then  fixed  in  its  proper  position,  and 
the  sufferer  was  left  to  die,  not  so  much  from  pain  (as  is 
generally  supposed)  as  from  exhaustion,  or  heat,  or  cold,  or 
hunger,  or  wild  beasts,  unless  (as  was  usually  the  case)  his 
sufferings  were  put  an  end  to  by  burning,  stoning,  suffocation, 
breaking  the  bones,  or  piereing  the  vital  organs.  If  left  alone 
y  survived  two  days  or  three,  and  there  are  cases 


lyGoogle 


THE  FANCIES   01   FACT,  411 

recorded  ■where  the  sufferer  lingered  till  the  fifth  day  he&re 
djing. 

Eeferring  to  the  earliest  Christian  writers,  who  witnessed  the 
their  mMtjred  brethren,  it  will  be 
"  Salmasiua  respecting  the 
.  is  well  foonded.  Ii'enteus,  Bishop  of 
century,  sajs;  "The  structure  of  the 
lunmil^,  two  in  length,  two  in  breadth, 
which  the  crucified  person  rostB." 
Justin,  another  Christian  writer  of  the  same  period,  who 
acquired  the  surname  of  Martyr  from  the  ,  cruel  death  he 
suffered  for  his  faith,  also  spealiB  of  "that  end  projecting  from 
the  middle  of  the  upright  post  like  a  horn,  on  which  crucified 
persona  are  seated."  TertulliaD,  another  Christian  writer,  who 
lived  3  little  later,  says:  "A  part,  and, 
of  the  cross  is  any  post  which  is  fixed 
hut  to  us  the  entbe  cross  is  imputed. 


crucifixion  of 
seen  that  the 
true  form  of  the 
Lyons,  in  the  8e( 
cross  has  five  ends  or  su 
and  one  in  the  middle. 


beam,  and  the  projecting  bar  which  serves  as  a  seat." 


I,  a  principal  part, 

upright  position; 

loludiag  its  transverse 


This  fact  (of  the  sufferer  being  seated)  will  account  for  the 
long  duration  of  the  punishment;  the  wounds  in  the  hands 
and  feet  did  not  lacerate  any  large  vessel,  and  were  nearly  closed 
by  the  nails  which  produced  them.  The  Rev.  Alban  Butler,  in 
his  Lives  of  the  Saints,  ^ves  numerous  instances  of  the  linger- 
ing nature  of  this  mode  of  execution,  and  of  the  wonderful 
heroism  displayed  by  the  Christians  who  underwent  it.  The 
Pagan  historians  also  narrate  instances  of  similar  heroism  on 
the  part  of  pohtical  offenders,  who  were  put  to  death  on  the 
Cross.  Bomilciff,  the  commander  of  the  Carthaginian  army 
in  Sicily,  having  shown  a  disposition  to  desert  to  the  enemy, 
was  nailed  to  a  gilbet  in  the  middle  of  the  forum;  but  "from 
the  height  of  the  Cioss  is  from  a  tnbunal,  he  declaimed 
against  the  (.nmes  of  the  citizens,  and  hwing  spoken  tims 
with  a  loud  \oice  amid  in  immense  concourse  of  the  people, 
he  expired  Lrucifixi  n  ha**  been  jra  tised  from  the  remotest 
ages  in  th    Last  and  is  still  occasionally  lesorted  to  ia  Turkey, 


lyClOOglC 


412  THE   FANCIES   OS  FACT. 

Madagascar,  and  Northern  Africa.  The  Jewish  historian,  Jose- 
phus,  states  that  the  chief  haker  of  Pharaoh,  whose  dream  had 
been  interpreted  hy  Joseph,  was  ertudfied,  though  Scripture 
Baja  he  was  hanged;  but  this  may  mean  hanged  on  a  cross,  for 
the  expression  seems  to  be  almost  equivalent  to  crucified,  as 
appears  from  Galatians,  chap.  111.  v.  13.  "  Christ  hath  redeemed 
us  from  the  eurae  of  the  law,  being  made  a  curse  for  us;  for 
it  is  written,  '  Cursed  is  every  one  that  hangetb  ob  a  tree.' "  As 
regards  art,  it  is  not  now  to  be  expected  that  the  example  set 
by  the  great  masters  will  be  disearded.  In.  this,  as  in  other 
matters,  custom  h  law,  whose  arbitrary  sway  will  be  exerciaed 
in  spite  of  facta. 

SINQULAK  COINCIDENCES. 

A  w  s  w  Ik  w  th  a  fnend  ji  ar  Otfo  d  when  a  sn  pe  ro  e 
w  hm  shot  Tl  ey  both  p  es  nte  i  th  r  walk  ^  t  ka  t 
the  b  rd  rema  k  n^,  what  a  pretty  hut  t  w  Id  hav  bee 
f  r  a  Tin  "She  snpe  flew  on  i  ho  t  d.st.n  then  trwer  d 
d  f  11  deal  When  estmmed  tie  lud  was  f  a  d  to  be 
appd  ently  mnjured  b  t  a  lo.  e  exanunat  on  disco  e  ed  tl 
t  L«  of  a  ioTner  njury  whi  h  hdd  led  to  the  r  [tu  e  ot 
bl  od  ve  Bel  It  nate..  I  of  a  w  Ik  t  ck  a  gun  h^  d  bee 
]  esented  1  1  schaT^ed  at  t!  e  b  1  no  one  w  uld  1  ve 
entured  to  loubt  th  t  the  le.  th  ot  tl  e  1  r  1  w  let  the 
gin 

A  1  o  ng  offi  «r  n  tl  e  a  -my  of  the  femons  Wolfe  was 
i\l  ently  dj  ^  of  an  aVsccss  n  the  lu  qS  He  was  absent 
from  III  e^  ment  oa  a  k  leave  b  t  resol  1  to  rejo  n  t  whea 
a  battle  wis  ex;  e  te  1  Fo  "did  he  snelanio*' 
ov  I  had  better  be  doii:^  my  duty  and  my  life  s  be  n" 
h  rtened  a  few  dajB  matters  not  He  received  a  shot  wh  1 
pierced  the  abscess,  and  made  an  opening  for  the  discharge. 
He  recovered,  and  lived  to  the  age  of  eighty. 

In  the  United  Service  Museum,  (Whitehall  Yard,  London,) 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES   OF  PACT.  413 

are  exhibited  the  "jaws  of  a  sliark,"  wide  open,  and  enclosiug 
a  tin  box.  The  history  of  this  strange  exhibition  is  as  follows ; — ■ 
A  ship,  on  her  way  to  the  West  Indies,  "fell  in  with"  and 
chased  a  suspicious-looking  craft,  which  had  all  the  appearance 
of  a  slaver.  During  the  pursuit,  the  chase  threw  something 
overboard.  She  was  subsequently  captured,  and  laken  into 
Port  Koyal  to  be  tried  as  a  slaver.  In  absence  of  the  ship's 
papers  and  other  proofs,  the  slaver  waa  not  only  in  a  fair  way 
to  escape  condemnation,  hut  her  captain  waa  anticipating  the 
recovery  of  pecuniary  damages  agrunst  his  captor  ibr  illegal 
detention.  "While  the  subject  was  under  discussion,  a  vessel 
came  into  port,  which  had  followed  closely  in  the  track  of  the 
chaso  shove  described.  She  had  caught  a  shark;  and  in  its 
stomach  was  found  a  tin  box,  which  contained  the  slaver's 
papers.  Upon  the  strength  of  this  evidence  the  slaver  was 
condemned.     The  written  account  is  attached  to  the  box. 

A.  B.  was  present  while  some  "tricks  in  cards"  were  being 
exhibited  by  a  professional  junior.  He  took  a  fresh  pack  of 
cards,  and  directed  the  company  to  take  out  a  card  from  the 
pack,  to  replace  it,  and  shuffle  the  pack.  This  being  done, 
A.  B.  took  the  pack  in  his  hand  and  carelessly  tossed  on  the 
table  a  card,  which  proved  to  be  the  correct  one.  The  pro- 
fessor, in  the  utmost  surprise  and  admiration,  offered  to  give 
A.  B.  three  of  his  best  tricks  if  he  would  give  him  the  secret 
of  the  trick  which  he  had  jnst  exhibited.  A.  B.  coolly 
declined  the  offer,  and  concealed  the  fact  that  it  waa  all  chaTice, 
in  the  purest  sense  of  the  word,  that  led  to  the  selection  of  the 
proper  card  from  the  pack. 

Upon  the  death  of  a  seaman,  some  money  became  payable 
to  his  widow,  Elizabeth  Smith,  No.  20  (of  a  certain,  say 
"King")  Street,  Wapping,  The  government  agent  called  at 
No.  20  King  Street,  and  finding  that  Elizabeth  Smith  lived 
there,  paid  the  money  without  further  inquiry.  Subsequently 
the  true  widow,  Elizabeth  Smith,  turned  up;  and  it  was  then 


lyClOOglC 


414  THE  FANCIES   OF   PACT. 

dweoverecl  tliat,  at  the  very  time  tlie  money  was  paid,  the 
street  was  being  re~nmnhered,  tuid  there  were  two  houses 
numbered  20;  and  what  was  most  remarkiible,  there  was  un 
Elizabeth  Smith  living  in  each  of  them. 

Some  time  in  the  last  century,  a  Mrs,  Stephens  professed  to 
have  received  &om  her  liuKbaad  a  medicine  for  dissolving 
"the  stone  in  the  bladder,"  and  offered  to  sell  it  to  goverumect. 
In  order  to  test  the  virtue  of  this  medicine,  a  patient  was 
selected  who  had  undeniably  the  ciimplaint  in  question.  Ho 
took  the  medicine,  and  waa  soon  quite  well.  The  doctors 
watched  him  anxiously,  and  when  he  died,  many  years  afier, 
be  was  seized  by  them,  and  the  body  esamined.  It  was  then 
discovered  that  the  stone  had  made  for  iteelf  a  little  sac  in  the 
bladder,  and  was  so  tightly  secured  that  it  had  never  caused 
any  inconvenience. 

Government|  however,  (somewhat  prematurely,)  rewarded 
Mrs.  Stephens  with  a  sum  of  £10,000.  The  cure  appeared  to 
have  been  purely  accidental,  aa  the  remedy  was  nothing  but 
potash,  which  baa  little  or  no  virtue  in  such  eases. 

A  gentleman,  of  fortune,  named  Angerstein,  lost  a  large 
quantity  of  valuable  plate.  His  butler  was  soon  on  the  track 
of  the  thieves,  (who  bad  brought  a  coach  to  carry  the  plate), 
and  enquired  at  the  first  turnpike  gat«  whether  any  vehicle 
had  lately  passed.  The  gate-keeper  stated  that  a  backnej- 
coach  had  shortly  before  gone  through;  and  though  he  was 
surprised  at  its  passing  by  so  early  in  the  morning,  he  had  not 
noticed  the  "number"  on  the  coach.  A  servant  girl,  hearing 
the  conversation,  volunteered  her  statement,  that  she  saw  the 
coach  pass  by,  and  its  number  was  "45."  As  the  girl  cmjM 
re(j(  )-ea(^,  they  were  surprised  at  her  knowing  the  "number." 
She  stated  that  she  knew  it  well,  as  being  tie  same  number 
she  had  long  seen  about  the  walls  everywhere,  which  she  knew 
was  "45,"  as  every  one  was  speaking  of  it.  This  allusion  of 
the  girl's  was  in  reference  to  the  "Wilkes"  disturbances,  when 


lyGoogle 


TUE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 


415 


the  45tli  number  of  the  True  Briton  was  prosecuted,  and  caused 
a  great  deal  of  public  exoitement.  Mr.  ADgeratein's  butler 
went  at  once  to  London  and  found  out  the  driver  of  the 
hacknej-coach  No.  45,  who  at  once  drove  him  to  the  plaxie 
where  the  plate  was  deposited,  and  it  was  all  recovered. 

Some  years  since,  in  the  "Temple,"  was  a  vertical  sun-dial, 
with  the  motto,  "  Be  gone  about  your  business."  It  is  stated 
that  this  very  appropriate  motto  was  the  resnlt  of  the  following 
bluniier : — When  the  dial  was  erected,  the  benchers  were  applied 
to  for  a  motto.  They  desired  the  "builder's  man"  to  call  at  the 
library  at  a  certain  hour  on  a  certain  day,  when  he  should 
receive  instructions.  But  they  foi^ot  the  whole  matter.  On 
the  appointed  day  and  hour  the  "builder's  man"  called  at  the 
library,  and  found  only  a  lawyer  in  close  study  over  a  law  book. 
The  man  stated  the  cause  of  his  intrusion,  which  suited  so 
badly  the  lawyer's  time  and  leisure  that  he  bid  the  man  sharply 
"Be  gone  about  your  business."  The  lawyer's  testy  reply  was 
duly  painted  in  big  letters  upon  the  dial,  and  was  considered  so 
apposite  that  it  was  not  only  allowed  to  remain,  but  was  con- 
sidered to  be  as  appropiiate  a  motto  as  could  be  chosen. 


Two  men  in  France  took  shelter  in  a  bam  for  the  night.  In 
the  morning  one  of  them  was  found  dead,  with  severe  injury 
to  the  head.  The  comrade  was  at  once  ajrested,  and  told  some 
"cock-and-bull"  story  about  the  terrible  st«rm  of  the  night  in 
question,  and  attributed  his  companion's  death  to  the  effect  of 
a  thunder-bolt.  He  was  not  credited:  and  was  in  a  fair  way  to 
be  executed  for  the  supposed  crime.  A  scientific  gentleman, 
hearing  of  the  circumstance,  examined  the  place,  arid  found  a 
hole  in  the  roof  of  the  barn,  and  an  aerolite  close  to  the  spot 
where  the  deceased  had  slept  on  the  night  in  question.  The 
e  of  the  accused  was  at  once  considered  as  established, 


and  he 

Now,  even  in  these  casra,  there  is  nothing  supemahiral,  or 
even  wwnatural ;  i.  e.,  there  is  nothing  to  prevent  the  oeourrenee. 


lyClOOglC 


410  THE  FANCIES  OF   FACT. 

The  improbability  Is  onlj  from  the  enormous  number  of  chances 
against  each.  But  when  any  G-erman  theologian,  or  other,  pre- 
tends to  easplain  a  series  of  alleged  miraeles  as  mere  accidents, 
he  should  be  reminded  that  the  chances  are  muUiplied  against 
each  repeated  occurreQce.  If,  e.  g.,  the  chances  against  a  person's 
bagging  a  snipe,  which  died  accidentally  juat  aa  he  pointed  a 
stick  or  a  gun  at  it,  be  only  ,^53,  then,  ag^nst  his  thus  ob- 
taining two,  the  chances  would  be  TTSTtiTFUS'  ^"^  ^  ^^-  ^'^ 
one  familiar  with  what  is  sometimes  called  the  Doelrme  of 
Chances  but  more  correctly  called  the  Theory  of  Probabilities, 
would  believe  that  a  sportsman  could  bring  home  a  bag  full  of 
game,  even/  bird  having  died  acctdenfallj^ just  when  shot  at. 

CHirK   IN  THE  EGG 

Th    h     h     8c       ly     t        tb  tw  1     h    rs  wh      w 

b  Idytd  tmlmit-ftli    head  an  1 

llfthhtthttolb  Thlrt    pjie^rst 

1     t    t  ti        d    f  th    d  y      t  th        d    f  f  ty   ^ht  h 

1       flia  bd       gh]hpl'(a  f 

wb   h  y  Ti   1 1       At  th   fit     th  h  1     f  th 

1       t     pp  d  mbl  1  f  1 1  1    1  w 

p        tlfAttl         df  tyh         wd        -ub 

w  1        tl     h     1  tw     >  bbl      f     th     t  f 

t!  b  11  d  w  th  f  h  f  p  t  d  h  Ip  t  f 
th    h     1    th    1  pp  IT    tow    I      h     flf  h  d  J      At  tb 

d    f  h     di  d      d  tl    ly         h  tl     first      1     (    y 

t  1        ed      At  tl         If  h     di    1      1  th   tj 

ght  h  hi  d    t  m    h  1       m  11         t  tl 

d     f  h     di  d      d  f   tyt        th  t  tl      1 

1   tl        ppe     )  w       Th  h  d        t!      b  -u      wb  1 

w       1  my   b  g       to  h        som    co    is  At  tl      1  )Oth 

h  f  b  t        th    bill    p  d  tl      fl    h    pp 

1     I        t      At  th     194th    tl       t  tl   t  IS  t 

i    tl      !  fc  ti  At  tl        loth    tl        b  t    f 

tl      b    k    tb    b  11  IS       7        n    as  w  11  as  tl         11 1 1  dd 


lyClOOglC 


TilE   FANlIEs   or   FVri  417 

The  bill  becomes  grtpa  nf  the  enJ  of  two  hundrfd  and  thirty 
sis  hours;  and  if  the  chiok  la  taken  out  ot  its  euvenng,  it  evi- 
dently moves  itself.  The  feathers  begin  to  shoot  out  towards 
the  240th  hour,  and  the  akull  becomes  gristly  At  the  264th, 
the  eyes  appear.  At  the  288tb,  tlie  ribs  aie  perfect  At  the 
331st,  the  spleen  draws  near  to  tho  itomieh,  ind  the  lungs  to 
the  ch est.  At  the  enl  of  three  hundrel  and  hfty  five  hours, 
the  bill  frequently  opens  and  shuts,  and  it  the  end  of  four 
hundred  and  fifty-one  hours  or  the  eighteenth  day,  the  first  cry 
of  the  chick  is  already  heard  it  afterwards  ^ets  more  strength, 
and  grows  continually,  till  at  last  it  sets  itself  at  liberty,  by 
opening  the  prison  in  whioh  it  was  shut  up.  Thus  is  it  by  so 
many  different  degrees  that  these  creatures  are  brought  into  life. 
All  these  progressions  are  made  by  rule,  and  there  is  not  one 
of  them  without  sufficient  reason.  No  part  of  its  body  could 
appear  sooner  or  later  without  the  whole  embryo  suffering ;  and 
each  of  its  limbs  appears  at  the  proper  moment.  How  mani- 
festly is  this  ordination — so  wise,  and  so  invariable  in  the  pro- 
duction of  the  anima] — the  work  of  a  Supreme  Being  ! 

INNATE  APPETITE. 
McKenzie,  in  his  Phrenological  Essays,  mentions  the  follow- 
ing curious  fact,  witnessed  by  Sir  James  Hall.  He  had  been 
engaged  in  making  some  experiments  on  hatching  eggs  by  arti- 
ficial heat,  and  on  one  occasion  observed  in  one  of  his  boses  a 
chicken  in  the  act  of  breaking  from- its  confinement.  It  hap- 
pened that  just  as  the  creature  was  getting  out  of  the  shell,  a 
spider  began  to  run  along  the  bos,  when  the  chicken  darted 
forward,  seized  and  swallowed  it. 

THE  INDIAN  AND   HIS   TAMED   SNAKE. 

An  Indian  had  tamed  a  blacksnake,  which  he  kept  about 
him  during  tho  summer  months.  In  autumn  lie  let  the  crea- 
ture  go  whither  it  chose  to  crawl,  but  told  it  to  come  to  him 
again  upon  a  certain  day,  whioh  he  named,  in  the  spring.  A 
white  man  who  was  present,  and  saw  what  was  done,  and  heard 


lyGoogle 


418  TUE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 

fte  Indian  affirm  that  tLe  serpent  would  return  to  him  the  very 
day  he  had  appointed,  had  no  faith  in  the  truth  of  his  predio- 
tion.  The  nest  spring,  however,  retaining  the  daj  in  hia  me- 
mory, curiosity  led  him  to  the  place,  where  ho  found  the  Indian 
in  waiting;  and,  after  remain iHg  with  him  about  two  hours,  the 
serpent  eame  crawling  back,  and  put  himself  under  the  care  of 
his  old  master. 

In  this  ease,  the  Indian  had  probably  observed  that  black- 
snakes  usually  return  to  their  old  haunta  at  the  same  vernal 
season;  aud  as  he  had  tamed,  fed,  and  kept  this  snake  in  a  par- 
ticular place,  experience  taught  him  that  it  would  return  on  a 
eertain  day. 


i  SWALLOWING  STOKES. 
The  Indians  on  the  banks  of  the  Oronoko  assert  that  pre- 
viously to  an  alligator  going  in  search  of  prey  it  always  swallows 
a  large  stone,  that  it  may  acquire  additional  weight  to  aid  it  in 
diving  and  dragging  its  victims  under  water.  A  traveller  being 
somewhat  incredulous  on  this  point,  Bolivar,  to  convince  him, 
shot  several  with  his  rifle,  and  in  all  of  them  were  found  stones 
varying  in  weight  according  to  the  size  of  the  animal.  The 
largest  killed  was  about  seventeen  feet  in  length,  and  had  within 
him  a  stone  weighing  about  sixty  or  seventy  pounds. 

HABITS   or  SHEEP. 


But  a  aeaoai  follows  nfler. 
And  a  third  upon  the  eecoad. 
And  a  fourth,  OJid  fifth,  and  so  on, 
"When  thoy  see  the  toil  uplifted,— 
First  u  shE^ep,  and  then  a,  dozen, 
Till  they  all,  in  quick  succession, 
One  by  one,  have  got  cicur  avur. 

Dr.  Anderson,  of  Liverpool,  relates  the  following  amusing 
illustration  of  the  singularly  persevering  disposition  of  sheep 
to  follow  their  leader  wherever  be  goes  ; — 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FV.NCIE'i  OP   FiOT  41^ 

\.  \i  1  s  boj  was  It  g  I  ut  twenty  f  t  w  he  ^ 
tl  roUj,li  tbe  wn  1  t  they  an  dow  a  treat  wl  e  e  he  d  1  n  t 
Wdot  hem  to  eo  He  observed  a  s  aveu  er  at  work  a  d  al  d 
out  oudly  for  h  m  to  op  tl  e  aheep  The  n  an  accorl  ogly  1  1 
wl    t  he    0  Id  to  to  n  tlie     back  runn  og  f  om  s  de  to  s  d 

iways  oppoa  ng  hi  cs  If  to  the  pi  age  and  b  and  h  ng  h  s 
bro  n  w  h  great  lexter  ty  b  t  tbe  sheep  m  oh  ag  atel 
Y  e  s  i  torwa  d  and  at  1  st  one  of  them  came  r  ght  p  o  tl  e 
in  who  fen  ng  t  wia  ^o  nc  to  jump  over  h  s  head  wl  1  t 
he  was  stoop  n"  ^ra-p   I  the  broon  w  th  both  ban]    and  held 

t  er  I  s  head  He  stood  for  a  few  ee  Is  tl  pos  t  oq 
when  the  s!  ep  n  a  le  a  epr  ng  an  1  ju  pe  1  f  ly  o  er  h  m 
w  thout  tou  h  Dq  the  broom  The  fi  t  h  d  no  onoer  cle  rei 
tbs   raped  ment  than  ano  her  f  Howe]  anlanothe      q    ^    ck 

uccess  on  so  tl  at  the  nan  perfect  j  coafoun  le  1  ee  e  I  t 
I  ae  all  recollect  on  an  1  stoo  1  n  tl  e  a  e  at  tnde  1 1  tl  e 
wh  le  of  the  u  had  ju  nped  o  er  h  m  and  not  n  at  en  j  ed 
to  1  a     on  e  ther  s  de  althougl  the  street  was  qu   e  cle  r 

eemakkabfjE  equestrian  expeditions, 
Mr.  Cooper  ThornHll,  an  innkeeper  at  Stiltoo,  ia  Huating- 
doQshire,  rode  from  that  place  to  London  and  back  again,  and 
also  a  second  time  to  London,  in  one  day, — which  made  a  jour- 
ney in  all  of  two  hundred  and  thli'teen  miles.  He  undertook 
to  ride  this  journey  with  several  horses  in  fifteen  hours,  but 
performed  it  in  twelve  hours  and  a  quarter.  This  remarkable 
feat  gave  rise  to  a  poeni  called  the  Stilton  Hero,  which  was 
published  in  the  year  1745. 

Some  years  ago,  Lord  James  Cavendish  rode  from  Hyde 
Park  Corner  to  Windsor  Lodge,  which  ia  upwards  of  twenty 


s  than 


■,s  thar 


Sir  Robert  Gary  rode  nearly  three  hundred  m 
three  days,  when  he  went  from  London  to  Edinburgh  to  inform 
King  James  of  the  death  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  He  had  several 
falls  and  sore  bruises  on  the  road,  which  occasioned  bis  going 
battered  and  bloody  into  the  royal  presence. 


lyClOOglC 


420  THE   FANCIES   OF  TACT. 

Oq  fLt.  20th  of  iusu-it,  1750  was  dpcid^d  it  NewmiAi^t  i 
remirkable  wager  tor  one  tbouiantl  gume'ji  laid  b^  Theobald 
Taaf,  Esq  against  the  Edri  of  Mairh  and  LoiJ  Eglmton  who 
weie  to  provide  a  tour  wheel  oarnage  with  a  man  in  it,  to  be 
driwn  bj  foui  horses  nineteen  miles  in  an  hour  Ihe  matth 
was  perlorraed  in  lift}  three  minutes  ind  twenty  four  aeeonds 
\n  engraved  model  of  the  cicrnge  was  formerly  sold  in  the 
print  shops 

The  Mirquis  de  la  Fayette  rode  in  August,  177S,  from 
Ehode  Iilaui  to  Boston,  nearly  sevealj  miles  distint,  in  seven 
hours,  and  rpturned  in  sis  and  a  hilf 

Ml  Eozard,  of  Paik  Lane,  London,  for  a  wiger  of  one  hun 
died  and  fifty  pounds  against  one  hundred  pounds,  undertook  to 
ride  forty  miles  in  two  hours,  oiar  Fpsom  course  He  rode 
two  miles  more  thin  had  been  agreed  on,  ind  performed  it  in 
hve  minutes  under  time,  in  October,  1789 

Mr  Wilde,  an  Irish  gentlemm,  htely  lode  one  hundied  ind 
twenty  seven  rades  on  the  course  of  Kildire  in  Ireland,  in  six 
hours  and  twenty  minutes,  for  a  wa^ei  of  one  thousand  guineas 

The  fimous  Count  de  Montgomery  esciped  from  the  mj-s-m 
ere  of  Paris  in  1572,  through  the  swiftness  of  his  horsi.,  whir h 
ipcording  to  1  mmusi,ript  of  th it  tunc,  cinied  him  mnetj  mika 
without  halting 

WONDERFUL  IIOKSB. 
In  the  year  1609,  an  Englishman  named  Banks  had  a  horse 
which  he  hid  trained  to  follow  him  wherever  be  went,  even 
over  fences  and  to  the  roofs  of  buildings.  Ho  and  his  horse 
went  to  the  top  of  that  immensely  high  structure,  St.  Paul's 
Church.  After  many  extraordinary  performances  at  home,  the 
horse  and  his-master  went  to  Rome,  where  they  performed  feals 
equally  astonishing.  But  the  result  was  that  both  Banks  and 
his  horse  were  burned,  by  order  of  the  Pope,  as  enchanters. 
Sir  Walter  Raleigh  observes,  that  had  Banks  lived  in  olden 
times,  he  would  have  shamed  al]  the  enchanters  of  the  world, 
for  no  beast  ever  performed  such  wonders  as  his. 


lyGoogle 


THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 


421 


I'ortunately  for  men  like  ThorDe,  and  Ejcg,  aud  Fraiicoci, 
who  have  beeu  so  auccossful  in  training  the  noblest  animal  in 
creation  for  the  stage-representation  a  of  Maaeppa,  Putnam's 
Leap,  &o.,  and  for  the  various  and  faatastio  tricks  which  Lave 
won  so  much  admiration  and  applause,  the  present  age  is  not 
disgraced  by  such  besotted  ignorance  and  superstition. 

WONDERFUL  LOCK. 

Among  the  wonderful  products  of  art  in  the  French  Crystal 
Palace  was  shown  a  lock  which  admits  of  3,674,385  comblua- 
tions,  Heuret  passed  a  hundred  and  twenty  nights  in  locking 
it,  and  Fiohet  was  four  months  in  unlocking  it;  now  thoj  can 
neither  shut  nor  open  it. 

"My  t     h         1  p  hi  L  d     f  th        1     tj       th 

whhm       ftraflbbtlElhdAm  I 

mpl  t  d     h  p    t      f   th     p        ss    f  th     fl 

h'amtlEldhfl  tak       fnih 

h    p   m        ft       1      t      1  th        d   h      1  th        d 

th      h         p  f    h   t         h  d    tw     ty  m      te 

MssBkB        t&CpptofthO  m 

ftytMhtV  tp  g  tth 

Llhh       mt  dfmtlp-ft         ftl 

m    h       y       1  th    d     t     ty    f    h  km       th  t  th 

jtrnhb  pi    hi  htt  4 

g      i  fi      h     d   d  d  II       WIS    fl     d       d        pt  d  tl 
th  y  w    Id  p  rt    m  fh       m      pe    t  tw  1      h     rs      Th 

wlwtkfmth         k  tltat        d 

h  d  iiit  te    1  Ij    th  t    is      mpl  ted 

1  w  t        pi  by  f  th    p    ty  1      Th  1 

was  pkd^a^d         dd       pd       dp      — th    y       w 
w    ked    p  t  th    1    m       d  w         — th     I  th  w     t  1]  d 

Id        df        tm        h  pasd        d  dtoh 

ta  1  d  th        t     mpl     d  — 11     tk     th  t  ni     b         t  t  d 

Ibltlw  tibflttt        bt  ihd 


lyClOOglC 


422  THE   FANCIES  OF   FACT. 

somely  dressed,  and  fitted  tte  person  who  wore  it  remarkably 
well.  The  only  differeace  between  this  and  the  English  experi- 
ment was  the  time  occupied  in  shearing  the  fleece;  and  any 
wool-grower  knoiv^  that  this  part  of  the  operation  may  be  per- 
formed in  ten  minutes. 

CRUDE   VAI.UB  verSuB  INDUBTRIAL   VALUE. 

Algarotti,  in  his  Opuscula,  gives  the  following  example  to 
show  the  prodigious  addition  of  value  that  may  be  given  to  an 
object  by  skill  and  industry.  A  pound  weight  of  pig-iron  costs 
the  operative  manufacturer  about  five  cents.  This  ia  worked 
up  into  steel,  of  which  is  made  the  little  spiral  spring  that 
movoa  the  balance  wheel  of  a  watch.  Each  of  these  springs 
weighs  but  the  tenth  part  of  a  grain,  and,  when  completed,  may 
be  sold  as  high  as  13.00,  so  that  out  of  a  pound  of  iron,  allow- 
ing something  for  the  loss  of  metal,  eighty  thousand  of  these 
springs  may  be  made,  and  a  substance  worth  but  five  cents  be 
wrought  into  a  value  of  1240,000. 

An  Amerioan  gentleman  says,  that  during  a  recent  visit  to 
Manchester,  England,  a  pound  of  cotton,  which  in  its  crude 
state  may  have  been  worth  eight  cents,  was  pointed  out  to  him 
as  worth  a  pound  of  gold.  It  had  been  spun  into  a  thrcud 
that  would  go  round  the  globe  at  the  equator  and  tie  in  a  good 
large  -knot  of  many  hundred  miles  in  length. 

QUANTITY  AND  VALUE. 
For  what  is  worth  in  nny  thing 
But  eo  macli  money  as  'twill  bring?— Bctlkb. 
When  emeralds  were  first  discovered  in  America,  a  Spaniard 
earned  one  to  a  lapidary  in  Italy,  and  asked  him  what  it  was 
worlh ,  he  w^s  told  a  hundred  emudos.    He  produced  a  second, 
which  was  larger,  and  that  was  valued  at  three  hundred.  Over- 
joyed at  this,  he  took  the  lapidary  to  his  lodging  and  showed 
him  a  chi  st  full ,  but  the  Italian,  seeing  so  many,  damped  his 
J I  ly  by  saying,  "Ah  ha,  Sefior!  so  many! — these  are  worth 


lyGoogle 


M  gP                ^                    Aorhfi 

w          w  b    ugh.                 h  Am                    w          w 

wii  dd               Tfi             p                   wli 

d  C      b                                 d        g             h       w 

p  t            m            dhwptd 

p  wh    h  p                                          Tfi 

d  li      h              g                 w 

k  d  w  h       I 


Estimate  the  yard  of  gold  at  £2,000,000,  (which  it  is  in  round 

mTs)                hgd  hw        mgh         u  elt«d  into 

h                 d  wnyu            que  and  sii- 

hhAhh  wli            yb  aiaed  from 

d  i              w  eet  square 

Dd                  h    h            m  h        h                 w  metal  that 

p  pu                     h    m  h                           d        h  wondrous 


bu 


P     P 


David,  for 


d  d  AG  00  00  Th  mm 
Da\id  13  said  to  have  coileoted  for  the  eanotuarj  am  ou  a  ted  to 
£889,000,000  sterling,  (Orito  saj8  £798,000,000,)— a  sum 
greater  than  the  British  national  debt.  The  gold  with  which 
Solomon  overlaid  the  "  most  holy  place,"  a  room  only  thir- 
teen feet  square,  amounted  to  more  than  thirty-eight  millions 
sterling. 

The  products  of  the  California  mines  from  1853  to  1858  are 
put  down  at  $443,091,000;  those  of  Australia,  since  their  dis- 
covery, at  $296,813,000;  or  8739,904,000  in  all,— an  increase  of 
about  one-third,  according  to  the  best  statistical  writers,  ou  the 
value  of  this  precious  metal  known  in  1850.  The  total  value 
of  gold  ia  the  world  at  the  present  time,  tlieu,  is  hut  little 
more  than  33,000,000,000. 


lyClOOglC 


424  THE  FANCIES   OF  FACT. 

IMMENSE  WEALTH   OF   THE   ROMANS. 

Craasus'  landed  estate  waa  valued  at         -         -  18,333,330 

Hia  house  was  valued  at 400,000 

Cteeilius  Isidorua,  after  having  lost  much,  left      -  5,236,800 

Demetrius,  a  freedman  of  Pompej,  w^  wortli  -  3,875,000 

Lentulua,  the  augur,  no  leas  than         -         -        -  16,666,666 

Clodius,  who  waa  atain  by  Milo,  paid  for  his  house  616,66t) 

He  once  swallowed  a  pearl  worth        -         -         -  40,000 

Apioius  was  worth  more  than  -  .  -  4,583,350 
And  after  he  had-  spent  in  his  liitcheu,  and  otlier- 

wise  squandered,  immense  sums,  to  the  amount  of  4,166,666 

He  poisoned  himself,  leaving  -  -  -  _  416,666 
The  estahlishmeuC  belonging  to  M.  Scarus,  and 

burned  at  Tuaculum,  waa  valued  at  -  -  4,150,000 
Gifts  and  bribea  may  be  considered  aigna  of  great 

riches:  Caisar  preaented  Servilia,  the  niother  of 

Brutus,  with  a  pearl  worth  -  -  -  - ,  200,000 
Paulua,  the  consul,  was  bribed  by  Csesar  with  the 

sum  of 292,000 

Curio  contracted  debts  to  the  amount  of     -         -  3,500,000 

Milo  contracted  a  debt  of  -  -  -  -  2,915,666 
Antony  owed  at  the  Ides  of  March,  which  he  paid 

before  the  Calenda  of  April  ...  -  1,666,666 
Ee  had  aquandered  altogether       -         -         -         735,000,000 

Seneca  had  a  fortune  of 17,500,000 

Tiberius  left  at  his  death,  and  Caligula  spent  in 

less  than  twelve  months,  -        -         -         118,120,000 

Caligula  spent  for  one  supper             -         -         -  150,000 

Heiiogabalus  in  the  same  manner          -         -  100,000 

The  suppers  of  Lucullus  at  the  Apollo  cost  ■  8,330 
Horace  says  that  Pegejlus,  a  ainger,  could  in  five 

days  Spend 40,000 

Herrius'  fish-ponds  sold  for  -  .  ,  166,000 
Galviuus  Labinua  purchased  many  learned  slavea, 

none  of  them  at  a  price  less  than  -  -  -  4,163 
Stage -players  sold  much  higher. 


lyGoogle 


THE   I'ANCIES    OF    rACT. 


WINE   AT   TWO    MILLIONS    A   BOTTLE. 

Wine  at  two  millions  of  dollars  a  bottle  is  a  drink  that  in 
eipense  would  rival  tte  lusurious  taste  of  barbaric  splendor, 
when  priceless  pearls  were  thrown  into  tlie  wino-oup  to  give  a 
rich  flavor  to  its  contents ;  yet  that  there  is  such  a  costlj 
beverage,  is  a  fixed  fact.  In  the  Rose  apartment  (so  called 
from  a  bronze  bas-relief)  of  the  ancient  cellar  under  the 
Hotel  de  Ville  in  tlie  city  of  Bremen  a  the  famous  R  enwe 
deposited  there  nearly  two  cent  nea  and  a  half  a^o  Tl  re 
were  twelve  large  cases,  each  bear  ng  the  name  to  o  ot  tl  o 
apostlea;  and  the  wine  of  J  das  de  p  te  the  ep  obat  on 
attached  to  his  name,  ia  to  this  diy  mo  e  h  ably  e^teen  ed 
than  the  others.  One  case  of  the  w  ne  co  ta  n  n^  five  oxhott 
of  two  handred  and  fo  ir  bottles  co  t  five  hund  ed  s:  lolla  -s 
in  1624.  Iu(,luding  the  expenses  ot  keep  ng  up  the  cell  r 
and  of  the  contrihut  on^  inte  e  te  of  tho  amou  te  a  d  n 
tereafa  upon  interests  aa  oxhoft  coste  at  the  j.reaent  tn 
555,637,640  nx  dollara  and  conse  {uently  a  bottle  s  wortl 
2,723,812  T  X  dollars  a  glass  o  the  e  ghth  pa  of  a  b  ttlo  s 
worth  340,47ti  ns-dolkrs,  or  |2/2,8b0;  or  at  the  rate  of  540 
rix-doUars,  or  $272,  per  drop.  A  burgomasWr  of  Bremen  is 
privileged  to  have  one  bottle  whenever  he  entertains  a  distin- 
guished guest  who  enjoys  a  German  or  European  reputation. 
The  fact  illustrates  the  operation  of  interest,  if  it  does  not 
show  the  coat  of  lusurj. 

CAPACIOUS   BEER^OASKS. 

A  few  years  before  Mr.  Thrale's  death,  which  happened  in 
1781,  an  emulation  arose  among  the  brewers  to  exceed  each 
other  in  the  size  of  their  casks  for  keeping  beer  to  a  certain 
age, — probably,  says  Sir  John  Hawkins,  taking  the  hint  from 
the  tun  at  Heidelberg,  of  which  the  following  ia  a  description  : 

At  Heidelberg,  on  the  river  Neckar,  near  its  junction  with 
the  Rhine,  in  Germany,  there  was  a  tun  or  wine-vessel  con- 
structed in  1343,  which  contained  twenty-one  pipes.     Another 


lyGoogle 


426  THE   FANCIES   OF    FiPT 

was  11  flle  or  the  one  now  tneDtioneil  rebuilt  id  1664,  wtioh 
held  SIX  Welled  hop^lieiiis  English  meisure  This  was  emp- 
tied, ind  knocked  to  pieces  by  the  Fienuh,  in  1688.  But  a,  new 
and  larger  newas  afterwards  fabricated  whi:,h  held  eight  hun- 
dipd  hogsheads  It  was  forinetly  kept  fall  of  (he  he'it  Rhenish 
^ine,  and  the  Eleetjirs  have  given  many  entertainments  on  it^ 
platfoim ,  but  this  convivul  monument  of  ancient  hoapitahtj  is 
now,  saja  Mr  Walker,  but  a  melancholy,  unsocial,  solitary  in 
stance  uf  the  extinction  of  hospitality  it  moulders  in  a  dinip 
viult,  qnite  empty 

The  cclihrated  tun  at  Koniastein  la  said  to  be  the  most  ci 
pauoua  ca^k  m  the  wuild,— holding  l,86<>,23b  pints  Tlie  top 
11  niled  in,  and  it  aiTorda  room  for  twenty  people  to  le^ile 
thimfcUes  There  ire  also  se^era!  kind's  ot  welcome  cup-i 
whith  ire  offeied  to  BtranE;ors  who  aie  invited  by  a  Latin  in 
b  ription  to  dunk  to  the  prosperity  of  the  whole  unners 
This  enormous  tun  was  built  in  1725,  by  Picdeiiok  Augustas, 
Kins;  of  Pohnd  and  Elector  of  &niony  who,  in  the  inserip 
tion  just  mentioned  is  staled  "the  father  ot  his  country,  the 
litua  of  his  age,  and  tho  delight  of  mankind  " 

Dr  Johnson  onoe  mentmncd  tint  his  tnend  Thrde  hid  four 
cisks  so  hige  that  each  of  thim  held  one  thousand  hogsheads 
But  Mr  Meuz,  of  Liq^uorprmd  Street,  frray's  Inn  Lane,  could 
iLCJrding  to  Mr  Pennant,  show  twenty  four  vesvels  contiinin^ 
in  ^11  thirtj  five  thouoand  biirels  one  alone  held  four  thuu 
Band  five  hundred  baricls,  and  in  the  \ear  1790  this  entpr]ri& 
in;;  bri,wer  built  another  contaiDmg  neiilj  twelve  thousind 
bauels,  vilued  at  about  £20,000  A  dinnei  wis  given  to 
two  hundred  people  at  the  bottom  of  it,  and  two  hundred  more 
)ointd  the  company  to  dunk  sulCi-ss  to  this  unriialled  vat 

DIEIERENCB   BETWEEN   THE  ENGLISH  POETS. 

Chaucer  describes  men  and  things  as  they  are;  Shakspeare, 
as  they  would  he  under  the  circumstances  supposed ;  Spenser, 
fK  wewouldWsAthemtobe;  Milton,as  they  ow^fti  tobe;  Byron, 
as  they  ought  not  to  be;  and  Shelley,  as  thoy  never  can  he. 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 


427 


PEEILS   OF  I 

Baillefc  mentions  one  tundred  and  aixty-tliree  children 
endowed  witii  extraordinary  talenta,  among  whom  few  arrived 
at  an  advanced  age.  Tii.e  two  sons  of  Quintilian  so  vaunted 
by  their  father  did  not  reach  their  tenth  year.  Henaogcoes, 
who  at  the  age  of  fifteen  taught  rhetoric  to  Marons  Aurelius, 
who  triumphed  over  the  most  celebrated  rhetoricians  of  Greece, 
did  not  die  at  an  early  age,  but  at  twenty-four  lost  his  faculties 
and  forgot  all  he  had  previously  acquired.  Pico  di  Mirandola 
died  at  thirty-two;  Johannus  Secundus  at  twenty-five,  having 
at  the  age  of  fifteen  oomposed  admirable  Greek  and  Latin 
verses  and  become  profoundly  versed  in  jurisprudence  and 
letters,  Pascal,  whose  genius  developed  itself  whea  ten  years 
old  did  not  attain  the  third  of  a  century  In  1701  a  child 
wb  Lbk  dHH  wh 


ul  I 


hOd      dNwTtam 


Th]  h    ted  p  fi    m       w  te 

b      ghte  d 

square  feet.  When  Port  Wdliam  was  taken,  m  1756,  by  &uia- 
jah  Dowla,  Nabob  of  Bengal,  one  hundred  and  forty-six  persona 
were  shut  up  in  the  Black  Hole.  The  room  allowed  to  each 
person  a  space  of  twenty-six  and  a  half  inches  by  twelve  inches, 
which  was  just  sufficient  to  hold  thera  without  their  pressing 
violently  on  each  other.  To  this  dungeon  there  was  but  one  email 
gi'ated  window,  and,  the  weather  being  very  sultry,  the  air 
within  could  neither  circulate  nor  be  changed.  In  less  thau  an 
hour,  many  of  the  prisoners  were  attacked  with  extreme  diffi- 
culty of  breathing;  several  were  delirious;  and  the  place  wan 


lyClOOglC 


428  THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 

filled  with  incolierent  ravings,  in  which  the  cry  foi  water  was 
predominant.  This  was  handed  them  by  the  sentinels,  but 
without  the  effect  of  allaying  their  thirst.  In  leas  than  four 
hours,  many  were  suffocated,  or  died  in  violent  delirium,  Iq 
five  hours,  the  Burvivors,  except  those  at  the  grate,  were  frantic 
and  outrageous.  At  length  most  of  them  became  insensible. 
Eleven  hoars  after  they  were  imprisoned,  twenty-three  only,  of 
the  one  hundred  and  forty-ais,  came  out  alive,  and  those  were 
in  a  highly-putrid  fever,  from  which,  however,  by  fresh  air  and 
proper  attention,  they  gradually  recovered. 

STONE  BAKO METER. 

A  Finland  newspaper  mentions  a  stone  in  the  northern  part 
of  Finhnd  which  serves  the  inhabitanls  instend  of  a  barometer 
riu  "itone,  which  they  call  Ilmakiur  turns  black  or  black luh 
^iiy  when  it  is  nOing  to  run  but  on  the  approach  of  fim,  wea 
Iher  it  18  covered  with  white  spots  Probably  t  is  a  foi^sil 
n  ised  with  clay  and  contain  og  rock  salt  nitre  or  ammonia 
wl  ich  aeoording  to  the  greater  or  less  d  5,"-o  ot  dan  pne??  f  t 
the  atmospheie  attrafts  it  or  otherwise  In  the  lattei  ea  e 
the  salt  aj  pears  f  riuiug  the  white  spots 

BITTERNESS   OF  BTRYCHNIA 
Strychnia    the   actue   princijle   of   tie   Nus  Vomica  bean, 
which  has  become  s    fdinous  la  the  annals  ot  enminal  poison 
leg   IS  so  intensely  bitter  that  it  w  11  impart   a  sensibly  hittci 
ti  te  I      IX  bundled  thousand  times  its  weight  of  wut  i 

SALT  \B  A  mvuRr 
Mungo  Park  describes  salt  as  "  the  greatest  of  all  luxuries  in 
Central  Africa."  Says  he,  "It  would  appear  strange  to  a 
European  to  see  a  child  suck  a  piece  of  rock-salt,  as  if  it  were 
sugar.  This,  however,  I  have  frequently  seen ;  although  in 
the  inland  parta  the  poorer  class  of  inhabitants  are  so  very 
rarely  indulged  with  this  precious  article,  that  to  say  a  man 
eats  salt  with  his  victuals  ia  the  same  as  saying  that  he  is  a 


lyGoogle 


THE   FANCIES   OF   PACT.  429 


rich  man.  I  Lave  myself  suffered  great  inconvenienco  from 
the  Beareity  of  this  article.  The  long-continued  use  of  vege- 
table food  creates  so  painful  a  longing  for  salt,  that  no  words 
can  sufBoiently  describe  it." 


H 


dra 


bo 


the  child  aodeoDtom  w  D         pci 

of  Abraham  offering  up  his  eon,  instead  of  the  patriarch 
"stretching  forth  his  hand  and  taking  the  knife,  as  the  hcup 
tures  inform  us,  he  is  represented  as  using  a  more  effectu-il  an  ] 
modern  instrument :  he  is  holding  to  Isaao's  head  a  blun  It 
biiis.  Berlin  represents  in  a  picture  the  Virgin  and  Child  li& 
tening  to  a  violin;  and  in  another  picture  he  has  diawn  King 


lyGoogle 


430  T 

Duvid  playing  the  h    p  h     ni  L         w 

Catherine.      A  Freo  h  h      d  w  F 

taste,  the  Lord's  Sapp      w  h   h       b  m  w  h 

blera  filled  with  oiga       hte  d  w     h 

these  absurd  and  lud  h  h  d  E 

has  been  drawn  with     dm         1.  h      p   m  m. 

plicitj  and  virtue,  wl  ea         ra  m 

hunter  with  a  gun,  sh  d    k 

MINUTE   MECHAMSM. 

There  is  a  cherry-stone  at  the  Salem  (Mass.)  Museum,  which 
contains  one  dozen  silver  spoons.  The  stone  itself  is  of  the 
ordinary  size ;  but  the  spoons  aro  so  small  that  their  shape  and 
finish  can  only  be  well  distinguished  by  the  microscope.  Here 
is  the  result  of  Immense  labor  for  no  decidedly  useful  purpose; 
and  there  are  thousands  of  other  objects  in  the  world  fashioned 
by  ingenuity,  the  value  of  which,  in  a  utilitarian  sense,  may  be 
Slid  to  be  quite  as  indifferent      Dr  Oliver  gives  an  aoeount  of 

hjt  whhw  d  hdddtwty 

i        h    d         d  t     tly  th  t  th        k  d    y         Id  dist    g     1 
th       hi    -n      tpp         dk-j^byth      mt  d       w 

It  waa  b      ht       P  f    f  fte      th  d  d  1]  d  th 

y  d  t    E     1     1  wh         t  w  d      1  bi    t    t 

1       1      th  t   t   I 


was  d    p  t  d 

d    tb 

th 

1          y      0        f  tl 

N         b 

toy 

h      y    t          wh    h  w 

hbt  d 

t  th 

pi         f   8         t  p  1 

Iwy 

t 

f  Kl  p  to  k       I     m 

t     tK 

1        hOy  t  1 
d  th        M 

t  IS  g  f  y    h        t  t      ted  by  M     m 

d      wh    h  w  m  11  tl    t       fl  Id  t  w  th  h 

wing;  also  a  ship  of  the  same  matenal,  which  could  be  hidden 
under  the  wing  of  a  bee  I  Pliny,  too,  t«lls  as  that  Homer's 
Iliad,  with  its  fifteen  thousand  verses,  waa  written  in  so  small  a 
space  as  to  be  contained  in  a  nutshell;  while  Elian  mentions 
an  artist  who  wrote  a  distich  in  letters  of  gold,  which  he  en- 
closed in  the  rind  of  a  kerne!  of  corn.     But  the  Ilarleian  MS. 


lyGoogle 


THE  FANCIES   OF   FACT. 


431 


menticns  i  f;i  itci  uu  isity  thin  inj  of  the  ibiTe  it  being  no 
thing  mote  nor  Iff  than  the  Bible  wnttcn  by  one  Peter  b  le*!, 
a  chanceiy  clerk,  in  so  snidl  a  book  that  it  ciuld  be  enclosed 
■nithtn  the  shell  of  in  English  walout  Di-iraeh  gives  in  ao 
count  of  miny  other  exploits  similar  to  the  one  of  Bales 
There  is  a  drawm"  of  the  head  of  Charles  II  in  the  librarj  (t 
St  John  s  College,  Oxford  wholly  composed  of  minute  written 
charwters,  which  it  a  smiU  distxnoe  resemble  the  lines  of  n 
enpiYing  The  head  an  1  tho  luff  aie  siid  to  contain  the  hook 
of  PsUms,  m  Greet,  and  the  Lord  s  Prayer  In  the  Hiitish 
Museum  la  i  portrait  of  Queen  Anne,  not  much  larger  than 
the  hand  On  this  drawing  are  a  numbei  of  lines  md  suratches 
whichj  it  is  assorted,  comprise  the  entire  CDnteats  of  a  thin 
folio  The  modern  art  of  Photoerapby  is  capable  of  effectin- 
wonders  m  this  way  We  hue  before  us  thi.  DtcKration  of 
In  JepGiidcni,e,  containing  SLVcn  thousand  ei^ht  hundre  1  lettprs, 
on  a  space  not  larger  than  the  head  of  a  pin,  which,  when 
Tiewed  thiough  a  mioroa:.opB,  may  be  read  distinctly 

THE  EATIO   OP  THE  DIAMETER  TO  THE  CIRCHMFESENPE 

The  proportion  of  the  diameter  of  a  circle  to  its  circumfer 
enoe  ha«  aevei  yet  been  exactly  ascertained  Nor  can  i  squiie 
or  any  other  ri^ht  lined  figure  be  founi  that  shall  be  equal  tc  a 
given  eiiole  This  is  the  celebrated  prcblem  called  the  squai 
lUj,  of  the  ciide,  whn,h  has  exi-rcised  the  abilities  uf  the  great- 
est mathematicians  for  ages  and  been  the  cccasion  of  sd  many 
disputes  Several  persons  of  considerable  eminence  ha\e  at 
diftcient  times,  protended  thit  they  had  discovered  the  exi  t 
quadrature,  but  then  errors  have  readily  been  detented,  and  it 
la  new  generally  looked  upon  la  a  thing  impossible  to  be  dine 

But  though  the  relatnn  between  the  diamtter  and  ciroum 
ferenoe  cmuot  be  accurately  espiessed  in  kncwn  nun  hers,  it 
may  yet  be  approximate!  to  any  assigned  decree  ot  exactnc-s 
And  in  this  manner  was  the  problem  solved,  about  two  thou 
Band  years  ago,  by  the  ereaf  Aichimedea  who  disco\eiel  the 
proportion  to  be  neailj  as  seven  to  twenty  two      The  prjuesa 


lyClOOglC 


432  THE  FANCIES    OJ   FACT. 

by  wiiich  he  effected  this  may  be  seen  in  his  boot  De  Dimen- 
done  QirctvM.  The  same  proportion  was  also  discovered  by 
Philo  Gadarensia  and  Apolloniua  Pergeua  at  a  still  earlier 
period,  as  we  are  informed  by  Eutocius. 

The  proportion  of  Vieta  and  Melius  is  that  of  one  hundred 
and  thirteen  to  three  hundred  and  fifty-five,  which  is  a  little 
more  exact  than  the  former.  It  was  derived  from  the  pre- 
tended quadrature  of  a  M.  Van  Eick,  whiah  first  gave  rise  to 
the  discovery. 

Bat  the  first  who  ascertained  this  ratio  to  any  great  degree 
of  exactness  was  Van  Ceulen,  a  Dutchman,  in  his  book  De 
Oirculo  et  Adscriptis.  He  found  that  if  the  diameter  of  a 
circle  was  1,  the  circumference  would  be  3-14159265358979- 
3238462643383279502884  nearly;  which  is  exactly  true  to 
thirty-sis  places  of  decimals,  and  was  effected  by  the  continual 
bisection  of  an  arc  of  a  circle,  a  method  so  extremely  trouble- 
some and  iaborioua  that  it  must  have  cost  him  incredible  pains. 
It  is  said  to  have  been  thought  so  curious  a  performance  that 
the  numbers  were   'ut  on  his  tombsto       '     St  P  t    '     h      b 


dg 


Ho,  with  no  aid  but  wondrous  memory. 
Prominent  among  the  precocious  mathematicians  of  the  pre- 
sent day  is  a  colored  boy  ia  Kentucky,  named  William  Marcy, 
whose  feats  in  mental  arithmetic  are  truly  wonderful.     His 
powers  of  computation  appear  to  be  fully  equal  to  those  of  Bid- 


lyClOOglC 


q  T  gp  w  m  to 

least  of  human  qualities,  and  to  have  the  smalleat  amount  of 
reason  in  it;  since  a  machine  like  Babbage's  can  be  made  to 
do  the  work  of  three  or  four  calculators,  and  better  than  any 
of  them. 

EXTEAOBDINAEV   MEMORY. 

Lipsiua  made  this  offer  to  a  G-erman  prince  : — Sit  here  with 
a  poniard,  and  if  in  repeating  Tacitus  from  beginning  to  end  I 
miss  a  single  word,  stab  me.  I  will  freely  bare  my  breast  for 
you  to  strike. 


2C 


37 


lyClOOglC 


434  THE   FANCIES   OP   PACT. 

Muretus  fells  us  of  a  young  Corsican,  a  law-atudent  at  Padtta, 
who  could,  without  hesitatioD,  repeat  thirty-six  thousand  Latin, 
Greek,  or  barbarous  words,  signiticant  or  insigiiificaot,  upon  onue 
heariog  them.  Muretus  himself  trated  his  wonderful  memory, 
and  avers  all  alleged  respecting  it  to  be  strictly  true. 

Mr.  Ckmithers,  in  the  course  of  a  lecture  on  Scottish  history 
mentioned  an  instance  of  Sir  Walter  Scott's  wonderful  mem- 
ory I  "  I  haye  heard  CampbeU  relate  how  strongly  Scott  was  im- 
pressed with  his  (Campbell's)  poem  of  Lochiel'a  Warning.  'I 
read  it  to  him  ia  manuscript,'  he  said;  'he  then  asked  to  read 
it  over  himself,  which  he  did  slowly  ajid  distinctly,  after  wtieh 
he  handed  to  me  the  manuscript,  saying,  '  Take  eare  of  your 
copyright,  for  I  have  got  your  poem  by  heart/  aud  with  only 
these  two  readings  he  repeated  the  poem  with  scarcely  a  mistake.' 
Certainly  an  extraordinary  instance  of  memory,  for  the  piece  con- 
tains eighty-eight  lines.  The  subject,  however,  was  one  which 
could  not  fail  powerfiilly  to  arrest  Scott's  attention,  and  versifica- 
tion and  diction  are  such  as  are  easily  caught  up  and  remembered." 

SILENT    COMPLIMENT. 

While  an  eloijuent  clergyman  was  addressing  a  religious 
society,  he  intimated,  more  than  once,  that  he  was  admonished  to 
conclude  by  the  lateness  of  the  hour.  His  discourse,  however, 
was  so  attractive  that  some  ladies  in  the  gallery  covered  the 
clock  with  their  shawls. 

SE  Lr-IM  MO  L  AT  I  ON. 

Comyn,  Bishop  of  Durham,  having  quarrelled  with  his  cler- 
gy, they  mixed  poison  with  the  wine  of  the  Eucharist,  and 
gave  it  to  him.  He  perceived  the  poison,  but  yet,  with  mis- 
guided devotion,  he  drank  it  and  died. 

THE   NEED   OF  PROVIDENCE. 

CecilsaysinhisfienktMis; — We  require  tte  same  hand  to  pro- 
tects us  in  apparent  safety  as  in  the  most  imminent  and  palpable 
danger.  One  of  the  most  wicked  men  in  my  neighborhood  was 
riding  near  a  precipice  and  fell  over:  his  horse  was  killed,  but 
he  escaped  without  injury.    Instead  of  thanking  God  for  his 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES   OP    PACT. 


435 


deliverance,  he  refused  to  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in  it, 
but  attributed  Lis  escape  to  chance,  'i'he  same  man  was  after- 
wards riding  on  a  very  smooth  road:  his  horse  suddenly  fell  and 
threw  his  rider  over  his  head,  and  killed  him  on  the  spot,  while 
the  horse  escaped  unhurt. 

DIMENSIONS  01?   HEAVEN. 
And  he  meuaured  the  oity  with  the  reed,  twelve  thousiuid  fnrlonga.    The 
length,  and  the  breadth,  and  the  height  of  it  are  equal.— Rev.  xxi.  16. 

Twelve  thousand  furlongs,  7,920,000  feet,  which  being 
cubed,  496,793,088,000,000,000,000  cubic  feet.  Half  of  this 
we  will  reserve  for  the  Throne  of  God  and  the  Court  of  Heaven, 
and  half  the  balance  for  streets,  leaving  a  remainder  of  124,- 
198,272,000,000,000,000  cubic  feet.  Divide  this  by  4,096, 
the  cubical  feet  in  a  room  sistcen  feet  square,  and  there  will 
be  30,321,843,750,000,000  rooms. 

We  will  now  suppose  the  world  always  did  and  always  will 
contain  990,000,000  inhabitaniB,  and  that  a  generation  fusts  for 
33J  years,  making  in  all  2,970,000,000  evety  century,  and  that 
the  world  will  stand  100,000  years,  or  1,000  centuries,  making 
in  all  2,970,000,000,000  inhahit«nte.  Then  suppose  there  were 
one  hundred  worlds  equal  to  this  in  number  of  inhabitants  and 
duration  of  yeare,  making  a  total  of  297,000,000,000,000  per- 
sons, and  there  would  be  more  than  a  hundred  rooms  sistcen 
feet  sjuare  for  ea<,h  person 

THE   COST   OF   SOLOMON  b   TFMPLE 

According  to  the  compufition  of  Villalpandus  the  tdents  of 
gold  silver  and  brass  used  ui  the  consfructifn  of  the  Temple, 
amounted  tt  £6  879  S22  500  The  jewel's  are  reckoned  to  have 
exceeded  this  sum ,  but,  for  the  sake  of  an  estimate,  let  their  value 
be  set  down  at  the  same  amount.  The  vessels  of  gold  (vasa 
autea)  consecrated  to  the  use  of  the  Temple  are  reckoned  by  Jose- 
phus  at  140,000  talents,  which,  according  to  Capel'a  reduction, 
are  equal  to  £545,296,203.  The  vessels  of  silver  (vasa  argented) 
are  computed  at  1,340,000  talents,  or  £489,344,000.  The  silk 
vestments  of  the  priests  cost  £10,000;  the  purple  vestments 


lyClOOglC 


4o6  THE  FANCIES   OF  FACT. 

of  the  singers,  ^£2,000,000.  The  trumpets  amounted  to 
^200,000;  other  musical  iostrumoats  to  ^£40,000.  To  these 
expenses  must  be  added  those  of  the  other  materials,  the  tim- 
ber aud  stonSj  and  of  the  labor  employed  upon  them,  the  iahor 
hcing  divided  thus  :  there  were  10,000  men  engaged  at  Leba- 
non in  hewing  timber  (silvicidx) ;  there  were  70,000  beai-ers  of 
burdens  (veclores) ;  20,000  hewers  of  atone  (Japiddinse)  ;  and 
3,300  oTerseers  (episcopi) ;  all  of  whom  were  employed  for 
seven  years,  and  upon  whom,  besides  their  wages  and  diet, 
Solomon  bestowed  £6,733,977  (donum,  Solomonis).  If  the 
daily  food  and  wages  of  each  man  be  estimated  at  4s.  Sd.,  the 
sum  total  will  be  £93,877,088.  The  costly  atone  and  tlie  tim- 
ber in  the  rough  may  bo  set  down  aa  at  leaat  equal  to  one-third 
of  the  gold,  or  about  £2,545,296,000.  The  several  estimates 
will  then  amouot  to  £17,442,442,268,  or  $77,521,965,636. 

THE   NUMBER  SEVEN, 

In  the  year  1502  there  waa  printed  at  Leipsic  a  work  en- 
titled Heptalogut-m.  Yirgilii  Sahhuryensis,  in  honor  of  the 
tiumber  seven.  It  consists  of  sevea  parts,  each  consisting  of 
sevea  diviaiona.  In  1624  appeared  in  London  a  curious  work 
on  the  subject  of  numbers,  bearing  tho  following  title :  The 
Secrets  of  Numberi,  according  to  Theological,  Arithmetical, 
Geometrical,  and  Harmmiical  Computation ;  drawn,  for  the 
belter  part,  out  of  those  Ancient*,  as  well  as  Neotcri^es. 
Pleasing  to  read,  profitable  to  underslafid,  inning  themselves 
to  the  capacities  of  both  learned  and  unlearned;  being  no 
other  than  a  key  to  lead  mem  to  any  doctrinal  knowledge  what- 
soever. In  the  ninth  chapter  the  anthor  baa  given  many  nota- 
ble opinions  from  learned  men,  to  prove  the  excellency  of  the 
number  seven.  "  First,  it  neither  begets  nor  is  begotten,  accord- 
ing to  the  saying  of  Philo,  Some  numbers,  indeed,  within  the 
compass  of  ten,  beget,  but  are  not  begotten ;  and  that  is  the 
unarie.  Others  are  begotten,  hut  beget  not;  as  the  octonarie. 
Only  the  septoaarie,  having  a  prerogative  above  them  all,  nei- 
ther begetteth  nor  is  begotten.     This  is  its  first  divinity  oi 


lyGoogle 


THE   F1.NC  E        F   FY  T  4 

perfect  OD  Seconlij  tl  s  is  a  lii  n  on  1  numbe  nod  th 
well  and  fou  tain  of  that  fa  r  and  lovely  D  ja  i    a  becau  e    t 

nlulctbwthn    t  elf  al!  n  anuer  of  bar    ony      fh  rllj     t 
a    beol  „  c  1  Dumber  coos  at  ng  of  perf    t  on      Fo  rtl  ly    be 

au  e  of  fcg  c  pos  uro  for  t  s  oomp  uuded  of  be  flr  fc  two 
p  feet  n  mbers  equal  an  1  uoequd  —  I  ree  a  d  four  for  tbe 
number  two   o  a.'i  t  ng  of    cpeate  1  in  ty  wb  ob  is  no  n  mber 

b  not  pe  fecE      N  w    e  e  j  one  of  tbe  e  be  a"  excel  ent     t 
tl  e  nselvea   (as  hatb  been  le  nonat  ate  1 )  bow  can  tb  s  num!  er 
be  b  t  tar  more  esce  lent  con^  s     g  of  the  n     I!  aad  par 
pat  n     ai  t  we  e  of  all  the  r  esoelleot  v  rt  e.%^ 

Hpjocr  te     s  ys  th  t  tl  e    epteaary  nunber   by    ts   o 
V  rtue  te  ds  to  the  -icoo  nj    sbment  of  al!  th    gs    s  the    1  s 
[  ens.er  of  1  fe  and  i  unta  n  of  all    ts  change      and  1  ke  Sh  k 

p  hdltblffm  to  £         Insen 

mth  Idmybb  dl  d  bfe-in 

ly       h  Id  w  t      m  d  b  f  d  y         t  be  n 

d  fi  Uy  t    h       I  f   b  f      th  t  p       d     My     The  te    h 


fh 


tb  y 


to    bUb  od      At 


tb    f  II 


sfitf 


f  h       trengtli ; 


f  th 


tra  b  bispg  dfmtbtttnh    decays. 

At     gl     tim  h  h      fi    t    1  m    t  at  nine 

t  m  ty  th        h  h      gra  d    1  m  oteric,  or 

T         f  d  Htm  h  y^ars   and 

t        has   by    b     R  y  1  P    pi    t   b         p  d  tb     natural 

p       d    f h   m      If 

I  d  y  t       WIS  p    f    t  1       d  tb  th  was  eou- 

d  t        t      0    lb  tb    f   b  tb  m     tb  a  holy 

observance  was  ordained  to  tbe  children  of  Israel,  who  feasted 

Beven  days  and  romairjed  seven  days  in  rest;  the  seventh  year 

was  directed  to  be  a  sabbath  of  rest  for  all  things ;  and  at  tbe 


lyGoogle 


438  THE  FANCIES   0¥   FACT. 

end  of  seven  times  seven  years  commenced  the  grand  Jubilee ; 
every  seventh  ye'ir  the  land  lay  fallow  ■  every  aeventh  year 
there  WIS  a  generd  release  irom  all  debts  and  all  bondmen 
were  let  free      From  this  hw  m  y  hive  onginited  the  euston 

f  binding  yoingmen  tn  seven  yeiis  apprenticeship  and  of 
punishiDg  incoriigble  offeniers  by  transportation  fcr  •<eiei 
twioL  seven  or  tbiee  time?  seven  years  Every  seventh  ye  r 
tbe  law  WIS  directed  to  be  read  to  tbe  jeople  Jioob  sened 
seven  yeais  for  the  possession  of  Eacbel  and  alsi  in  ti  er 
seven  years  Noah  had  sevoa  days  waroing  of  the  flood  m  1 
WIS  commanded  to  take  the  fowls  oi  the  air  into  the  ark  hy 
sevens  ind  the  olpan  beasts  by  s,,VL.ns  The  irk  touchei  tl  e 
j,ro  ind  on  the  seventh  month     an  1  in  seven  days  a  do\  e  w  s 

ent  ind  again  in  seven  Jays  ifter     The  seien  years  of  plenty 
1  y  ff  m"      w       f      toll  "     Pb    ooh'    d      m     ly 

th  f  t      d  th  1        h      ts       d  th  f 

t  11  d  th  ra    f  bl    ted  CO         Th    y      g 

mlw       t       tn       whthdm  dy        dtthl 


f  th         th  t  k 

y      By  tl       Id  1  w  m 

m     i  d  to  f            h 

ff    d    fcb     h 

k    ss    t    h     ]    t 

111              t    d  d  h 

df   b              1 

ty  t  m                t                If  C 

.               d          fid 

t    ly  L  m    h            y  t  m 

h    d    t      t        f  J 

h                p      ts  b 

dy        d        th 

h  1  y              d  d  th    w 

m          d    fte    th 

tb  t  m     h    w  11   f  11      B  1 

id  bllLl  mf  fiLb 

p  IJb  dyj  yjbf       dsatwtbb 

d  y       d  ghts       d     ff     d  1    II    k       d 

ram  m         f      th  k  d  D  vid 

b^         pthkfid  lUkd  m 

El  J  h        t  h  t  t  m  1    k  f     th      1     1 

H      k   h  1  g  th    t  mpl      ff     d  b  11    k        d 

m       d  h    g    tsf  ff       g     Tl      hll 

f  I  n  1  wb       H      k    b  t    k     w  y  tl       tra  lu       k  pt 

th    f  ast    f      1  d  b  ead  d  y        d  tb        y 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES   OP   FACT.  4od 

other  seven  days.  King  Ahasuems  bad  seven  ohamberlains, 
a  seven  days'  feast,  and  sent  for  tlie  queen  on  the  seventh  day; 
and  in  the  seventh  year  of  his  reign  she  was  taken  to  him. 
Queen  Ksther  had  seven  maids  to  attend  ber,  Solomon  was 
seven  years  building  the  temple,  at  the  dedication  of  which  he 
feasted  seven  days;  in  the  tabernacle  were  seven  lamps ;  seven 
days  were  appointed  for  an  atonement  upon  the  altar,  and  the 
priest's  son  was  ordained  to  wear  his  father's  garment  seven 
days  J  the  children  of  Israel  ate  unleavened  bread  seven  days ; 
Abraham  gave  seven  ewe-lambs  to  Abimeleoh  as  a  memorial 
for  a  well;  Joseph  mourned  seven  days  for  Jacob.  The  rab- 
bins say  God  employed  the  power  of  answering  this  number  to 
perfect  the  greatness  of  Samuel,  his  name  answering  the  value 
of  the  letters  in  the  Hebrew  word,  which  signifies  seven, — 
whence  Hannah,  his  mother,  in  her  thauta,  says  "that  the 
barren  had  brought  forth  the  seventh."  In  Scripture  are  enu- 
merated seven  resurrections, — the  widow's  son,  byElias;  the 
Shunamite's  son,  by  Elisha;  the  soldier  who  touohed  the  bones 
of  the  prophet;  the  daughter  of  the  ruler 
the  widow's  son  of  Nain ;  Lazarus,  t 
of  Mary  Magdalene  were  cast  seven  i 
seven  deaeons.  Enoch,  who  was  translated,  was  the  seventh 
after  Adam,  and  Jesus  Christ  the  seventy-seventh  in  a  direct 
line.  Our  Saviour  spoke  seven  times  from  the  cross,  on  which 
he  remained  seven  hours ;  he  appeared  seven  times ;  after  seven 
times  seven  days  he  sent  the  Holy  G-host.  In  the  Lord's  Prayer 
are  seven  petitions,  expressed  in  seven  times  seven  words,  omit- 
ting those  of  mere  grammatical  connection.  Within  this  num- 
ber are  contained  all  the  mysteries  of  the  Apocalypse  revealed 
to  tho  seven  churches  of  Asia;  there  appeared  seven  golden 
candlesticks  and  seven  stars  that  were  in  the  hand  of  Him  that 
was  in  the  midst ;  seven  lamps,  being  the  seven  spirits  of  God; 
the  book  with  seven  seals;  seven  kings;  seven  thunders; 
seven  thousand  men  slain;  the  dragon  with  seven  heads,  and 
the  seven  angels  bearing  seven  vials  of  wrath;  the  vision  of 
Daniel  seventy  weeks.    The  fiery  furnace  was  made  seven  times 


*  of  the  synagogue  ; 

r  blessed  Lord.    Out 

The  a 


lyClOOglC 


440  THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 

h  ttcr  for  Shadiacli  Meshach  nnd  Abcdne^o  KebucbadneazM 
ate  the  gnis  of  the  teld  seven  jearb  TJ  e  elders  of  Isra  I 
w  re  sevputy  There  are  also  numbered  sevi.  i  hi,av  na,  aevf  n 
plinete  seven  stai?  seven  wi**  men  ae\  en  champion-,  of  Chr 
tendom,  sevm  nutes  in  music  seven  pnmiry  col  rs  seven 
leaJly  aias  sov- 1  Sdciann,nts  ii  the  Eoman  (  athol  c  Churth 
aci  aevea  wonders  of  the  world  The  seventh  aon  was  co 
s  dtieJ  aa  en3cwed  with  pre  eminent  wisdom     the  seventh  so 

f  a  eienth  son  is  Still  thought  by  «  me  to  possess  the  poftei 
of  healing  diiseises  spontaneously  Perfection  is  likenel  tj 
e  Id  seven  times  punfied  lu  the  fire  and  we  yet  say,  you 
fiishten  me  out  of  my  seven  sense''  Theie  were  sevi.  i  ch  pU 
\  efore  Thibis  The  blood  was  to  be  spri  lilel  seven  times  le 
tore  the  altar  Naaman  was  to  be  dipped  seven  times  m  Jor 
dii  Ajuleius  speaks  of  the  dipping  of  the  head  seven  times 
in  the  sea  fu:  pur  ficat  on       In  all  solemn  rites  of  purgation 

le  lieation  and  consec  -at  on  the  oil  oi  water  was  sevea  timts 
s[.i  nklpd  The  house  of  wisdom  in  Proverbs,  had  seven 
I  llar« 

THE   NUMBER  THREE 

When  the  world  WIS  created  we  iind  land  water  and  s,lty 
sur  moon  luJ  stirs  Noah  had  lut  three  sons  Jonah  wns 
three  diys  n  the  whale  s  i  elly,  our  feaviour  passed  thno  hys 
inihefcmb  Peter  deniel  his  Savoir  thrice  There  weie 
throe  pitiiaiols  \braham  Isaac  ind  J-icib  Abrahim  ente 
tamed  three  angels  Samuel  was  cillel  three  times  '&imon, 
lovest  thou  me  was  repeated  three  times.  Daniel  was  thrown 
into  a  den  w  th  three  lions  for  praying  tliree  times  a  day. 
Shadrach,    M  ohach    and  Abednego  were   rescued   from   the 


fl  m       t  th         n      Th    C  m 

m  ndm    t  w 

d  1        d   n  th 

h    d  d  y      J  b  h   1  th        f 

d       St  P 

1    p    k      f  f  th 

1    p        d    1      ty    h        th 

Th        f  m 

d      m      f  th 

h  k          d  b  tl     w        to 

m     t     I 

h        d  J        n( 

J I J  h  p    at       I  h  ms  if  th 

tm           tl 

b  dy    f  tl     d    ( 

lld'^m        d          dDllhth        tm 

b  f         h     d 

lyGoogle 


THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 


441 


three  graces;  Cerberus  with  his  three  heaiJs;  N'eptuue  holding 
his  three-toothed  staff;  the  Oracle  of  Delphi  cherished  with 
veneration  the  tripod;  aod  the  nine  Muses  sprang  from  three. 
The  witches  in  Machetli  ask,  "When  shall  we  three  meet 
again  ?"  The  Pope's  tiara  is  tnple  We  ha\e  morning,  noon, 
and  night;  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl,  water,  lee,  and  snow.  Trees 
group  their  leaves  in  three? ,  there  is  three-Ieavod  clover. 
What  could  be  done  in  mathematics  without  the  aid  of  the 
triangle  ?  witness  the  power  ot  the  wedge,  and  in  logic  three 
propositions  are  indispensable  It  is  a  common  phrase  that 
"three  is  a  luckj  number."  Life  stands  on  a  tripod,  the  feet 
of  which  are  the  circulation,  respiration,  and  innervation ;  death 
is  therefore  the  result  of  a  feilure  in  the  heart,  the  lungs,  or  the 
brain.  Finally,  there  is  earth,  heaven,  and  htll ;  auJ  above 
all,  the  Holj  Trinity. 

THE   NUMBER  NINE. 

The  singular  properties  of  the  r 
to  arithmeticians.  The  following  if 
If  the  cardinal  numbers  fru 
used  as  a  multiplicand,  and  a 
used  as  a  multiplier,  the  result  will  present  s 
figures  the  same  as  that  multiplied  hj  the  9.  For  example,  if 
we  wish  a  series  of  fives,  we  take  5  times  9,  equal  to  45,  for 
a  multiplier ; — •. 


e  well  known 
s  one  of  the  most  interesting. 
!,  omitting  8,  he 
e  of  them  multiplied  by  9  be 


4  9  3  S 


r  1 6 


S556SS65e 

A  similar  result  will  he  obtained  by  using  all  the  other  num- 
bers, including  8  (73) ;  hut  the  8  must  in  all  eases  be  omitted 
in  the  multiplicand. 


THE  KALEIDOSCOPE. 

The  following  curious  calculation  has  been  made  of  the  nu 
ber  of  changes  which  this  wonderful  instrument  will  admit :- 


lyGoogle 


442  THE  TANCIES    OF   FACT. 

Supposing  the  iustniment  to  coDtain  twenty  small  pieces  of 
glass,  &c.,  and  that  you  make  ten  cjiaogea  in  each  minute,  it 
will  take  the  inooneeivable  spajje  of  462,880,899,576  years  and 
360  days  to  go  through  the  immense  variety  of  changes  it  ia 
capable  of  producing, — amounting  (according  to  our  frail  idea 
of  the  nature  of  things)  to  an  eternity,  Or,  if  you  take  only 
twelve  small  pieces,  and  make  ten  changes  in  each  minute,  it 
will  then  take  33,264  days,  or  91  years  and  49  days,  to  exhaust 
its  variations.  However  exaggerated  this  statement  may  appear 
to  some,  it  is  actually  the  case. 

noah's  aek  and  the  great  eastern  steamship. 
The  following  comparison  between  the  si^o  of  Nuah's  Ark 
and  Iho  Leviathan  (Great  Eastern),  both  being  cunfeideied  in 
point  of  tonnage,  after  the  old  law  for  calculating  the  tonnage, 
exhibits  a  remarkable  similarity.  The  sacred  cubit,  as  stated 
by  Sir  Isaac  Kewton,  is  20-626  English  inches ;  by  Bishop 
Wilkias  at  21  88  inches.  According  to  these  authorities,  the 
dimensions  will  be  as  follows ; — 


perpend  itulara 

515-62 

64r-U0 
9M6 

6S0 

464'1)8 

610 

ing  i^,  old  law 

«,sn  5S- 

S4 

•11 

101  50-94 

23.09^    25-94. 

MVl.R^rY  OF   COLORS. 

In  a  very  amusing  work  of  the  celebrated  Goetho,  entitled 
Winkelmann  utid  sein  Jalirhundfvl,  it  is  stated  that  about 
fifteen  thousand  varieties  nf  color  are  employed  by  the  workers 
of  mosaic  in  Home,  and  that  there  are  fifty  shades  of  each  of 
these  varieties,  from  the  deepest  to  the  palest,  thus  affording 
aeven  hundred  and  fifly  thousand  tints,  which  the  artist  can 
distinguish  with  the  greatest  facility.  It  might  be  imagined 
that  with  the  command  of  seven  hundred  and  fifty  thousand 
tints  of  oolorSj  the  most  varied  and  beautiful  painting  could  be 


lyGoogle 


AEROLITES. 

ig!e  masses  and  in  showers,  hav 


THE  FANCIES   OF  FACT.  44 

perfectly   imitated;   yet  this  is   not   the   ease,  for  the  mosaic 

workers   find    a  lack   of    tints,   even    amid   this  astonishiu 
variety. 


Meteoric  stones,  i 
from  the  atmosphere  at  various,  and  in  many  cases  uncertai 
periods,  throughout  the  world.  Tbe  largest  of  these  at  present 
known,  is  in  the  province  of  Tucuman,  in  South  America,  in 
the  midst  of  an  extensive  plain.  It  weighs  thirty  thousand 
pounds.  A  mass  in  the  Imperial  Cabinet  in  Vienna  was  brought 
from  Agram,  in  Croatia,  where  it  fell  in  1751.  It  was  seen  by 
the  inhabitants  while  falling  from  the  air,  and  is  said  to  have 
appeared  like  a  globe  of  fire.  Professor  Pallas,  in  his  travels 
in  Siberia,  found  a  mass  on  the  mountains  of  Kemir,  weigh- 
ing sixteen  hundred  and  eighty  pounds,  which  the  inha- 
bitants told  him  foil  from  the  sky.  About  one  hundred  and 
fifty  miles  from  Bahia,  in  Brazil,  is  a  mass  of  a  crystalline  tex- 
ture weighing  fourteen  thousand  pounds.  There  are  also  large 
masses  in  West  Greenland,  Mexico,  Peru,  and  South  Africa, 
The  specimen  in  the  cabinet  at  New  Haven,  weighing  three 
thousand  pounds,  was  brought  from  Red  Uiver  in  Louisiana. 
Showers  of  meteorolites,  weighing  from  a  few  onnoes  to  twenty 
pounds,  are  recorded  by  observers  as  having  fallen  at  Ensisbeim, 
in  1492;  at  Mort,  in  1750;  at  Aire,  in  1769;  at  Jul  lac,  in 
1790 ;  at  Sienna,  in  1794 ;  at  Benares,  in  1798 ;  at  L'Aigle, 
in  1803  ;  and  at  St.  Uermaine,  in  1808.  One  of  tbe  most  re- 
markable instances  that  has  occurred  in  this  country  under  the 
direct  observation  of  eye-witnesses  took  place  in  Fairfield 
county,  Connecticut,  in  December,  1807,  an  interesting  account 
of  which  may  be  found  in  vol.  vi.  American  Philosophical 
Transactions  (1809).  A  similar  occurrence  happened  at  Nor- 
wich, in  the  same  State,  in  1836. 

With  regard  lo  tbe  extraordinary  origin  of  these  aerolites,  or 
meteorolites,  it  has  been  incontcstably  proved  to  bo  atmosphe- 
ric, by  eye-witnesses,  by  the  similarity  of  their  composition  in 
all  cases,  by  the  fact  that  though  the  materials  thus  mingled— 


lyClOOglC 


444  THE  FANCIES   OP   TACT. 

being  chiefly  native  iron,  with  small  proportions  of  nickel, 
siles,  alumiDium,  magneaium,  and  aulphur — are  well  known,  they 
are  never  united  in  the  same  manner  among  tlie  productions  of 
the  globe;  and  further,  hy  the  feet  that  they  are  never  projected 
from  terrestrial  volcanoes,  and  that  the  situations  in  which 
they  are  found  are  generally  isolated  and  always  on  the  surface 
of  the  earth. 

It     m  ■      th       f     th   ph"l        h     t  rt  ■    th  f 

p  Th  da  h 


h        b             m  d       p        g 

b 

b                  Tb       wh         d    h 

h 

m  d       m      b              fl  a  ng 

h 

h    h  p    h 

ph 

d      d                   ind     h 

y 

h     p                            w     h 

e 

m    k            h             ur      to 

S                S                  ^ 

pb 

L    Pae 

p       J 


hh     p        d 
d  h     p 


1      ai  h       d  raw        i 

d    h       h     p  w 

I  w     d  b 

h  p       d       m 

g     p  wd        H  w  ] 

h     d    d      d  y 


lyClOOglC 


J    FANCIES   UF   V\.VT. 


440 


the  most  salisfactorj  explanation.  He  bas  pluiwa  that  oouiit- 
leBS  bodies,  of  onmparativelj  small  dimensions,  cluster  together 
in  yast  rings,  and  revolve,  as  do  the  planets,  around  the  Bun  ; 
that  these  bodies  hecome  visible  when  the  orbit  of  the  earlh 
approaches  their  orbit ;  that  sometimos  they  are  entangled  in 
our  atmosphere,  catch  fire  frotn  their  enormous  velocity,  anj 
fall  to  the  earth  as  meteoric  stones.  In  this  way  the  shooting 
stars  and  meteors  are  shown  to  be  diminutive  planets,  which 
in  composition  and  orbital  motion  resemble  our  own  earth,  and 
almost  fill  the  planetary  apace  with  tbeir  countless  squadrons. 


FATE   OP  AMERICA  e 

It  is  remarkable  how  few  of  the  eminent  men  of  the  dis- 
coverers and  conquerors  of  the  New  World  died  in  peace, 
tolumbus  died  broken-hearted;  Roldin  and  Bobadilla  were 
diowned,  Ovando  was  harshly  superseded;  Laa  Casas  sought 
refuge  in  a  cowl;  Ojeda  died  in  extreme  poverty;  Enciso  was 
di-pcsed  by  his  own  men;  Nicuessa  perished  miserably  by  the 
cruelty  of  his  party ;  Vasco  Nunea  de  Ba.lboa  was  disgracefully 
beheaded,  Narvaez  was  imprisoned  in  a  tropical  dungeon,  and 
afterwards  died  of  hardship ;  Cortoz  was  disbonored  ■  Alvarado 
was  destroyed  in  ambush;  Aim  gro  wai  gdrroted  Pizirro  was 
murdered,  and  his  four  brothers  cut  ofi'  an  1  tl  ere  was  nj  e  I 
to  the  assassinations  and  esecut  ons  of  the  seeonJ  y  !  lefs 
among  the  energetic  and  daring  adventurers 

FACTS  ABOUT  THE  PRESIDENTS 

Of  the  first  seven  Presidents  of  the  Un  to  1  =itates  foui  w  e 
from  Virginia,  two  of  the  sa  ue  nime  from  Massaehusetts  an  1 
one  from  Tennessee.  Ail  but  no  were  sixty  six  years  oH  on 
leaving  office,  having  served  two  te  ms  and  one  of  those  wh 
served  but  one  term  would  h  ve  been  s  sty  six  years  of  age  it 
the  end  of  another.  Three  ol  tl  e  seven  d  i-d  on  the  4th  of 
July,  and  two  of  them  on  the  same  day  and  year.'  Two  of  them 
were  on  the  sub-committee  of  three  that  drafted  the  Declara- 
•lion  of  Independence;  and  these  two  died  on  the  same  day  and 
as 


lyClOOglC 


446  THE   FAN"CrES   OF   FACT. 

year,  on  the  anniversary  of  the  Deolaratiun  of  lodepeadcnce, 
and  just  half  a  century  from  the  day  of  the  Declaration.  The 
names  of  throe  of  the  seven  end  in  son,  yet  none  of  them  trans- 
mitted his  name  to  a  son.  The  initials  of  the  names  of  two  of 
the  seven  are  the  same;  the  initials  of  two  others  are  the 
same;  and  those  of  still  two  others,  the  same.  The  remaining 
one,  who  stands  alone  in  this  particular,  stands  also  alone  in  the 
love  and  admiration  of  his  conntrymen  and  of  the  civilized 
world, — Washington.  Of  the  first  five,  only  one  had  a  eon,  and 
that  son  was  also  President.  Neithei'  of  the  Presidents  who 
had  sons  were  elected  for  a  second  term. 

THE    CROWN    OP   ENGLAND. 

The  crown  of  England  is  a  oostly  "  bauhle,"  hedazzled  with 
jewels  enough  to  found  three  or  four  puhlic  charities,  or  a  half- 
dozen  ordinary  colleges.  There  are  twenty  diamonds  round 
the  circle,  worth  87,500  each,  "maiing  $150,000;  two  large 
centre  diamonds,  510,000  each,  making  820,000;  fifty-fiiur 
anjaller  diamonds,  placed  at  the  angle  of  the  former,  each 
$500 ;  four  crosses,  each  composed  of  twonty-five  diamonds, 
$60,009 ;  four  iarge  diamonds  on  the  top  of  the  crosses, 
^20,000;  twelve  diamonds  contained  in  the fleur-de-iis,  150,000 ; 
eighteen  smaller  diamonds  contained  in  the  same,  $10,000; 
pearls,  diamonds,  &c.  upon  the  arches  and  crosses,  $50,000 ; 
also  one  hundred  and  forty-one  small  diamonds,  8^5,000 ; 
twenty-six  diamonds  in  the  upper  cross,  $15,500 ;  two  circles 
of  pearls  about  the  rim,  $15,000.  The  cost  of  the  stones  in 
the  crown,  esclusive  of  the  metal,  is,  therefore,  nearly  half  a 
million  of  dollars. 

AN  ARMY  OF   WOMEN. 

In  the  army  of  the  Chinese  rebels,  there  were  in  1858,  in 
Nanking  alone,  about  half  a  million  of  women,  collected  from 
various  parts  of  the  country  and  formed  into  brigades  of  thir- 
teen thousand,  under  female  officers.  Of  th'ese,  ten  thousand 
were  picked  women,  drilled  and  garrisoned  in  the  city;  the  rest 
were  compelled  to  undergo  the  drud^^ry  of  digging  moats, 
making  eaith  works,  erecting  bafteries,  &c. 


lyGoogle 


THE   FANCIES   i. 


THE  STAR  IN  THE  E 


Undor  the  influence  of  a  conjunction  of  Jupiter,  Saturn,  and 
Mara,  whieli  took  place  in  the  year  1604,  Kepler  waa  led  to 
think  that  he  had  disoovered  means  for  determining  the  true 
year  oF  our  Saviour's  birth.  He  made  hia  calculations,  and 
found  that  Jupiter  and  Saturn  were  in  conjunction  in  the  con- 
stellation of  the  Eishea  (a  fiah  ia  the  aatrological  symbol  of 
Judsaa)  in  the  latter  half  of  the  year  of  Rome  747,  and  were 
joined  hy  Mars  in  748,  Here  theu  he  fixed  the  first  figure  in 
the  date  of  our  era,  and  here  he  found  the  appearance  in  the 
heavens  which  induced  the  magi  io  undertake  their  journey,  and 
conducted' them  successfully  on  their  way  Others  have  taken' 
up  this  view,  freed  it  from  aatrolo^cal  impurities,  and  shown 
its  trustworthiness  and  applicability  in  the  uase  uudei  consider- 
ation. It  appears  that  Jupiter  ani  Saturn  came  together  for 
the  first  time  on  May  20th  in  the  twentieth  degree  of  the  con- 
stellation of  the  Fishes.  They  then  stoid  bofwe  sunuso  in  the 
eastern  part  of  the  heavens,  and  so  were  seen  by  the  ma^. 
Jupiter  then  passed  by  Saturn  towards  the  north.  About  the 
middle  of  September  they  were  near  midoight  both  in  opposition 
to  the  sun,  Saturn  in  the  thirteenth,  Jupiter  in  the  fifteenth  de- 
gree, being  distant  from  each  other  about  a  degree  and  a  half. 
They  then  drew  nearer:  on  October  27th  there  was  a  second  con- 
junction in  the  sixteenth  degree,  and  on  November  12th  there 
took  place  a  third  conjunction  in  the  fifteenth  degree  of  the  same 
constellation.  In  the  last  two  conjunctions  the  interval  between 
the  planets  amounted  to  no  more  than  a  degree,  so  that  U>  the 
unassisted  eye  the  rays  of  the  one  planet  were  obsorbed  jn  those 
of  the  other,  and  the  two  bodies  would  appear  as  one.  The  two 
planets  went  past  each  other  three  times,  came  very  near  together, 
and  showed  thenraelTes  all  night  long  for  months  in  conjunction 
with  each  other,  as  if  they  would  never  separate  again.  Their 
first  union  in  the  east  awoke  t^e  attention  of  the  magi,  told 
them  the  espected  time  had  come,  and  bade  them  set  off  with- 
out delay  towards  Judsea  (the  fish  land).     When  they  reached 


lyGoogle 


448  THE   FANCIES    Or   PACT. 

Jei-usalem  tlie  two  planeta  were  onee  more  blended  together. 
Then,  in  the  eveniug,  they  stood  in  the  southern  part  of  the  sky, 
pointing  with  their  united  rays  to  Bethlehem,  where  prophecy 
declared  tie  Messiah  was  to  be  horn.  Tie  magi  followed  the 
finger  of  heavenly  light,  and  were  brought  to  the  child  Jesus. 
The  conclusion  in  regard  to  the  time  of  the  advent  is  that  our 
Lord  was  horn  in  the  latter  part  of  the  year  of  Kome  747,  or 
six  years  before  the  oommon  era. 

A  recent  writer  of  considerable  merit,  Wieseler  (  Ckronohg. 
Si/nop.  der  4  EvangelUn.^  has  applied  thia  theory  of  Kepler  in 
conjunction  with  a  discovery  that  he  has  made  from  some 
Chinese  astronomical  tables,  which  show  that  in  the  year  of 
Itome  750  a  comet  appeared  in  the  heavens,  and  was  visible  for 
seventy  days.  Wicsclcr's  opinion  is  that  the  conjunction  of 
the  planets  excited  and  fixed  the  attention  of  the  magi,  but  that 
their  guiding-star  was  the  aforesaid  comet. 

DIPLOMATIC  COSTUME. 
J>r.  Franklin,  it  is  well  known,  gained  great  praise  for  wear- 
ing an  ordinary  plain  suit,  instead  of  a  gold  embroidered  Court 
costume,  when  formally  presented  to  King  Louis  XVI.  In 
reference  to  thia  anecdote,  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  in  his  note- 
book states  that  he  was  tolA  by  an  aged  lady,  in  England,  that 
.the  ciroumstance  above  mentioned  arose  from  the  fact  that 
Franklin's  tailor  disappointed  him  of  hie  Court  suit,  and  that  he 
wore  his  pliun  one  with  great  reluctance,  because  he  had  no 
other.  Franklin,  it  is  said,  having  by  his  mishap  made  a  sue- 
eesafiil  impression,  continued  to  wear  his  plain  dreas  through 
policy.  Thiis  we  have  another  dissipation  of  one  of  those 
pleasant  fictions  which  have  been  transmitted  by  the  historian 
and  the  painter.  It  is  like  the  apocryphal  story  of  FrankEn 
reading  the  prayer  of  Habakkuk  to  an  assembly  of  French 
infidels,  who  are  said  t«  have  pronounced  it  one  of  the  finest 
compositions  they  had  ever  heard,  and  to  have  eagerly  inquired 
where  it  might  be  found. 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES    OF   FACT. 


449 


INBTANCEe   or  REMARKABLE  LONGEVITY. 
The  days  of  onr  jB»ra  are  tbreeaoore  years  and  ten;  and  if  bj  reason  of 
strBngth  they  be  foarsoote  years,  yet  is  their  strength  labor  and  sorrow; 
for  it  is  soon  cut  off,  and  we  fly  away. — Psalm  xo,  10. 

Haller  has  noted  one  thotiaand  casoa  of  centenarians ;  sist.j- 
two  of  flora  110  to  120  years;  tweBtj-nine  of  from  120  to  130; 
and.  fifteen  who  had  attained  from  130  to  140  years.  Beyond 
this  advanced  age,  woll-authenticated  examples  of  longevity  are 
very  rare.  The  case  of  Henry  Jenltina,  the  Yorkshire  flsher- 
niao,  who  died  in  Deoemher,  1670,  at  the  age  of  169,  is  ono  of 
the  most  remarkable.  He  is  buried  in  tlie  church  of  Bolton- 
upon-Swale,  where  may  be  found  a  long  inscription,  ehiefly  re- 
ferring to  his  humble  position  in  life  and  bis  patriarchal  age. 
That  of  Thomas  Parr  is  also  well  known.  He  was  first  married 
it  the  aije  of  80,  and  aftei wards  at  122,  and  died  in  163'>,  agtd 
152  He  was  t  faimer  iiid  up  to  the  age  of  130  was  ible  to 
di^  plough,  and  thi  lih  Had  he  continued  his  simple  and  ib 
6t,emiou'5  hjbits,  his  life  would  probably  ha\e  been  prolonged  i  , 
considerable  peiiod,  but  the  lusuiious  living  of  the  court  of 
Charles  I ,  at  which  his  latter  years  wore  spent,  occasioned  *. 
plethoric  condition  whii,h  hastened  his  end  The  fimius  Hai 
vcy  dissected  him  after  death,  and  found  no  ippearince  of 
deoay  in  any  otgan 

The  following  hat  of  instinces  of  very  advanced  age  is 
given  ou  the  luthfiity  ot  Prichaid,  Whitehuist,  Bailey,  and. 
others  — 


lyClOOglC 


Dr.  TMead,  HcrtfnriJshire 

A.D.  1652     - 

James  Bowles,  KeDilworth 

-     1656     - 

HeDty  JenkiDS      - 

1670     - 

William  Edwards*     - 

- .  1688    - 

Petraroh  Czarten 

1724    - 

Margaret  Patten 

- 

-    1739    - 

John  Rovea 

1741     - 

Mrs.  John  Boven 

" 

John  EfEiigham,  CorDwall 

- 

Tliomas  Win-.low,  a  captain 

of  Cromwell 

-    1766    - 

Draakenburg,  a  Dane 

1772     - 

Jonas  Warren,  Ballydole 

1787     - 

■^  or  way 

-     1797     - 

Demetrius  Grabowsky,   Poland 

1830     - 

Bridget  Deyine 

.     1845     - 

Czartan's  biographer  saj 

of  him  :— He 

Tas  horn  iu  th 

1539  and  died  January  5th,  1724,  at  Kofrosch,  a  yillage  four 
miles  from  Temeswar.  A  few  days  before  his  death,  being 
nearly  185  years  old,  he  had  walked,  with  the  help  of  a  stick, 
to  the  post-house  at  Kofroseh,  to  ask  chavitj  from  the  travellers. 
His  eyes  were  much  inflamed;  but  he  still  enjoyed  a  little  sight. 
His  hair  and  heard  were  of  a  greenish  white  color,  like  mouldy 
bread;  and  he  had  a  few  of  his  teeth  remaining.  His  son,  who 
was  97  years  of  age,  declared  that  his  father  bad  once  been  a 
head  taller;  that  at  a  great  age  he  married  for  the  third  time, 
and  that  he  was  horn  in  this  last  marriage.     He  was  aoeus- 


of  the  Cairey  who  3opnrtod 
February  24,  Anno  Domini 
Aunoque  iBtatis  mm  1 
0,  tappj  ohango! 


lyGoogle 


tomed,  agreeablj  to  tlie  rules  of  lii 
to  observe  fast-daja  with  great  stri 
otber  food  than  milk,  and  certai 
garia 


religion,  (Greek  Church,) 
.ctness,  and  never  to  use  any 
in  cakes,  called  by  the  Hun- 


e  frequent  in  Russia.  Accord- 
re,  in  1828,  in  the  empire,  828 

led  120  years;  fifteen,. 
In  the  government  of 

d  150.     In  the  govera- 


i  collaUclien,  together  with  a  good  glass  of  brandy  such 
as  is  made  in  the  country. 

The  Hungarian  family  of  Roven  affords  an  extraordinary  ex- 
ample of  long  life.  The  father  attained  the  age  of  172,  the 
wife,  164;  they  had  been  married  142  years,  and  their  youngest 
child  was  115;  and  such  was  the  influence  of  habit  and  filial 
affection  that  this  child  was  treated  with  all  the  severity  of 
parental  rigidity,  and  did  not  dare  to  act  without  his  papa's 
and  manvma'i  permission. 

Esamples  of  great  longevity  ai 
ing  to  an  official  report,  there  were 
centenarians,  of  whom   forty  had  6 
130;  nine,  136;  and  three,  138  y 
Moscow  there  died,  in  1830,  a  mai 

ment  of  Kieff,  an  old  soldier  died  in  1844,  at  the  age  of  153. 
There  lately  died  on  an  estate  in  the  government  of  Viatica,  a 
peasant  named  Michael  Kaiawelkis,  who  had  attained  the  age 
of  137  years,  10  months,  and  11  days.  He  was  born  in  a  vil- 
lage of  the  same  district,  married  at  the  age  of  19,  and  had  had, 
by  several  wives,  32  children,  one  of  whom,  a  daughter,  is  still 
living,  at  the  g  flOO  H  never  had  any  serious  illness; 
some  years  b  f  h  d  th  he  complained  that  he  oould  not 
read  without  gliss  b  to  the  last  day  he  retained  the  use  of 
all  bis  facuit  and  w^s  y  cheerful,  He  frequently  said 
that  he  thougl  t  d    th  h  1  f   {,ottep  him. 

In  China,  on  th  ra  -y     uch  instances  are  rare.     From  a- 

census  made  a  few  years  ago,  we  learn  that  out  of  a  populatioQ 
of  369,000,000  there  were  but  four  centenarians. 

According  to  the  census  of  the  United  States,  taken  in  1830, 
there  were  2,656  persons  a  hundred  years  old,  or  upwards. 
The  census  of  1S50  exhibits  neariy  the  same  number.  This 
gives  one  centenarian  to  a  population  of  9,000.  From  this 
census  we  also  learn  that  the  oldest  person  then  living  in  the 


lyGoogle 


452  THE  FANCIES   OF  FACT. 

United  States  waa  140.  This  was  an  Indian  won 
in  North  Carolina.  In  tte  same  State  was  an  Indian  aged  12o, 
a  negro  woman  111,  two  blaek  slaves  110  eaofi,  one  mulatto 
male  120,  and  several  white  males  and  femalea  from  106  to 
114.  In  the  parish  of  Lafajette,  La.,  was  a  female,,  black, 
aged  120.  In  seyeral  of  the  States  there  were  found  persons, 
white  and  black,  aged  from  110  to  115. 

There  is  now  liTing  in  Murray  county,  Georgia,  on  the  waters 
of  Holy  Creek,  a  Eevolutionary  veteran,  who  has  attained  the 
age  of  135.  His  name  is  John  Hames.  He  is  known  through- 
out the  region  in  which  ho  lives  by  the  appellative,  "Gran'sir 
Hames."  He  was  born  in  Mecklenburg  county,  Virginia,  and 
was  a  lad  10  years  old  when  Washington  was  in  his  cradle. 
He  was  S2  when  Braddook  met  bis  disastrous  defeat  on  the 
Monongahela.  He,  with  a  number  of  bis  neighbors,  set  forth 
to  join  the  ill-fated  commander,  but  after  several  days'  march 
were  turned  back  by  the  news  of  his  overthrow.  He  migrated 
to  South  Carolina  nearly  100  years  ago.  He  was  in  thirteen 
considerable  conflicts  during  tho  war  of  Independence,  and  in 
skirmishes  and  encounters  with  Indians,  with  tones,  and  with 
British,  times  beyond  memory.  He  was  with  Gates  at  Camden, 
with  Morgan  at  Cowpens,  with  Green  at  Hillsboro'  and  Eutaw, 
and  with  Marion  in  many  a  bold  rush  into  a  tory  camp  or  red- 
coat quarters. 

At  the  time  of  the  .Eighth  Census  there  were  about  20,000 
persons  in  the  United  States  who  were  living  when  the  Declara- 
tion  of  Independence  was  signed  in  1776.  They  must 
neceasarilj  have  been  more  than  eighty  years  old,  in  order  to 
have  lived  at  that  time.  The  French  Census  of  1851  shows 
only  102  persons  over  100  years  old,— though  the  total 
population  was  nearly  36,000,000.  Old  age  is  therefore  attained 
omono;  us  much  more  frequently  than  in  France. 

At  Cordova,  in  South  America,  in  the  year  of  1780,  a  judicial 
inquiry  was  instituted  by  the  authorities  to  determine  the  age 
of  a  negress  by  the  name  of  Louisa  Truso.  She  testified  that 
she  perfectly  remembered  Fernando  Truxo,  the  bishop,  who  gave 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES    OF   FACT.  453 

her  ss  his  pot^tributioii  toward  a  uniYersity  fund :  he  died  in 
1614.  Another  negresa,  wto  was  Itnown  to  he  120,  testified 
that  Louisa  was  an  elderly  woman  when  she  was  a  chiW.  On 
thia  evidence  the  authorities  of  Cordova  concluded  that  Louisa 
was,  as  she  asserted,  176  yeaia  old 

Two  cases  are  recorded  by  Mr  Buley,  m  his  Annals  of  Lon- 
gevity, which  throw  all  these  into  tie  shade ,  bnt  tlie  evidence 
furnished  is  inadequate  and  unsatisfiotory  One  is  that  of  an 
Englishman,  Thomas  Cam,  whom  the  pari&h  register  of  Shore- 
ditch  affirms  to  have  died  in  1588,  at  the  age  of  207,  having 
paid  allegianoe  to  twelve  monaroha.  The  other  is  that  of  a 
Russian, — name  not  given, — whom  the  St.  Petersburg  Gazette 
mentioned  as  having  died  in  1812,  at  an  age  exceeding  200. 

The  following  in  relation  to  Cam  is  copied  literally  from  the 
register  of  burials  of  St.  Leonard's,  Shoreditch : — 


I5S8. 

BUEIALLES 

Fol 

35. 

Thomas  Cam  was  burld  a 

pamsu.f 

Janii 

rye.  Aged  307 

Holywell  Streat 
Goo.  Gsrrow, 

Copy,  A 

g'Bt25,ie32 

Parish  CI 

rk.    , 

In  connection  with  the  foregoing  facta,  it  will  be  interesting 
to  revert  to  the  ages  of  the  antediluvian  patriarchs : — 

Yoai-s. 

Adam  lived             .....  930 

Seth 912 

Enos          ......  905 

Canaan  •  .  •  .  •  -910 

Mahalaleel              -            -            •             -            -  895 

Jared               ......  902 

Enoch 365 

Methuselah 969 

Lamuiit — ■ ■ • « « ■ 7?T 

Noah,  who  lived  before  and  after  the  Deluge,  in  all       •  950 


lyClOOglC 


454  THE   FANCIES  OF  FACT. 

In  Willet's  Hexapla,  in  Leviiioum,  is  the  following  re- 
markable passage : — 

Ladovicus  Vivea  (m  Aug.  de  Oiint,  Dei,  Hb.  XT!)  writeth 
of  a  towD  in  Spain,  consiafcing  of  alioui  an  hundred  houses,  all 
of  them  inhabited  by  the  seed  of  one  old  man,  then  living;  so 
that  the  youngest  of  them  knew  not  what  to  call  him;  Quia 
lingua  Hispana  supra  abavum  nan  ascendit,  becaucs  the  Span- 
ish tongue  goetn  no  higher  than  the  great-grandfather's  fether. 
And  Eas.  Johan.  Hcroldus  hath  a  pretty  epigram  of  an  aged 
matron  that,  lived  to  see  her  children's  ehildien  to  the  sixth 


The  >MotlieT  said,  Go  tall  mj  ^Child 
That  "her  Girl  should  her  <Dnughtor  tell 
She  mart  now  moum  (that  lately  amiledj. 
Her  °  Daughter's  little  'Biibe'3  not  irelL 


MEANS    OP    RECOGNITION, 

When  the  English  suite  of  Lord  Macartney  was  invited  to  a 
grand  entertainment  in  China,  one  of  them,  understanding  that 
it  was  not  expedient  to  venture  upon  every  dish  which  appeared 
under  the  guise  of  the  native  cookery,  was  desirous  of  ascertain- 
ing how  far  he  might  venture  with  safety,  and  as  the  Chinese 
waiters  could  understand  a  little  English,  he  pointed  to  a  dish 
before  tim,  and  said  to  the  attendant  in  an  interrogative  tone, 
"Quack-quack?"  mea,niiig  to  inquire  if  it  was  a  duck.  The  at- 
tendant perfectly  understood  him,  and  immediately  replied,  with 
great  solemnity  and  sincerity,  "Bow-wow!" 

,  Roadni  once  unexpectedly  met  his  old  friend  Sir  Henry 
Bishop,  but  having  at  the  moment  forgotten  his  name,  after 
puzzling  and  stammering  for  some  time,  he  at  length  took  him 
by  the  hand,  and  sang  a  few  bars  to  prove  he  indentified  him 
diroogh  Bishop's  beautiful  song,  "Blow  gentle  gales." 


lyClOOglC 


THE 

FANCIES   OF   FACT. 

MARRIAGE  VOW. 

The  mal 

centuries  : 

hand,  tiiua 

for  my  wc 

jn  Beknea 

part,"  ag  1 

to  sej>arat 

plyght  th( 

with  an  a 

us  departe 

for  the  ust 

1502.      Ii 

Upw 


Us  of  three 
he  right 
e,  C.  D., 

[not  "  do 
meaning 
heretfl  I 

yl  dethe 

Missals 

/  ffere/ord, 

"to  he 

rde." 


Franklin  m 
political  pr 
him.     Her 

"  Throw  thy 


dreams, 
e  of  his 
y  puzzled 


Blttor  and  deep  tkoagh  the  draught,  jot  drain  thou  the  oup  of  &J  trial, 
And,  ia  its  healing  effect,  smile  at  the  bitterness  piLst." 

Goethe  Bsya  in  his  Memoirs,  "The  ohjeota  which  had  occupied 
my  attention  duriag  the  day  often  reappeared  at  night  in  cou- 
ueoted  dreams.  On  awakening,  a  new  composition,  or  a  portion 
of  one  I  had  already  commenced,  presented  itself  to  my  mind." 
Coleridge  composed  his  poem,  of  the  Abyssinian  Maid  during 
a  dream.  Coekhurn  says  of  Lord  Jeffrey: — "He  had  a  fancy 
that  though  he  went  to  bed  with  his  head  stuffed  with  the 
names,  dates,  and  other  details  of  various  causes,  they  were  all 
in  order  in  the  morning;  which  he  accounted  for  by  saying  that 
during  sleep  they  all  crystallized  round  their  proper  centres." 


lyGoogle 


45(5  THE   FANCIES    OF   FACT. 

FACTS  ABOUT   SLEEP. 
Gome  sleep,  O  sleep !  the  Gertam  knot  of  peace, 

Tbe  baitmg-ploM  of  wit,  the  balm  of  woe; 
Tlie  poor  man's  wealth,  the  prisonar'a  reloase, 
Tbe  impa,rtial  judge  between  the  high  and  low. 

Sir  Philip  Sidmby. 
Whilo  I  am  asleep  I  have  neither  fear  nor  hope,  neither  trouble  nor  e'otj , 
and  hlessinga  on  him  who  iavented  sleep,  the  mantle  that  covers  all  human 
thoaght£;  the  food  that  appoases  hunger;  the  drink  that  quenches  thirst;  the 
Brc  that  watros  cold;  the  cold  that  moderatea  heat;  and  lastly,  the  general 
coin  that  pnrohasea  all  thinga ;  the  balanoe  and  weight  that  makes  the  shep- 
herd equal  to  the  king,  and  the  simple  to  tbswiae.—Sanoko Fimsa. 

S     Ph  Tp  S'd    y     II     1    p  "  the  poor  man's  wealth,"  and, 

h     m    ht  h  dd  d     t        everj  man's  health.     Men  have 

f  d    g       th        w    notions,  attempted  to  limit  or  es- 

1  th    h  f   1    P      Th     ,  the  "  immortal  Alfred"  of  Eng- 

1     Id     ddh     ly     tthee  portions  of  eight  hours  eaoh, 

g         t         f     1         t  and  the  health  of  the  body  by 

1    p  d    t        1  ler  for  business,  and  the  third  for 

dy     dd      tnBhp  Taylor  considered  three  hours',  and 

P    h    d  B     te    f        h  leap  auiSoient  for  any  man. 


The  error  into  which  these  and  others  have  fallen  arises  not 
only  from  the  fact  that  in  this,  as  well  as  in  other  thinga,  every 
man  is  a  law  to  himself,  hut  from  the  varying  amount  required 
in  eaoh  individual  case  at  different  times,  depending  upon  tho 
amount  of  renovation  required  by  the  nervous  and  muscular 
systems.  John  Wesley,  the  distinguished  founder  of  Methodism, 
who  attained  the  ago  of  eighty-eight,  and  who  could  command 
sleep  on  horsebMk,  says  very  properly,  in  some  curious  re- 
marks which  he  has  left  upon  sleep,  that  no  one  measure  will 
do  for  all,  nor  will  the  same  amount  of  sleep  suffice  even  for 
the  same  person  at  all  times.  A  person  debilitated  by  sickness 
requires  more  of  "  tired  nature's  sweet  restorer"  than  one  in 
vigorous  health.  More  sleep  is  also  necessary  when  the  strength 
and  spirits  are  exhausted  by  hard  labor  or  severe  mental  efforts. 


lyClOOglC 


THE  TANCIES   OF   FACT.  457 

Whatever  maybe  the  ase  with  sume  few  jeiaons,  uf  a  pei,ul  ir 
constitution,  it  is  evident  that  liealfh  and  vi^ii  can  soiroelj  be 
espected  to  continue  long  without  sis  hours  sleep  in  the  foui 
and-twenty.  Wesley  adds  that  during  his  Ijn^  lite  he  ne\er 
tnew  any  individual  who  retaiced  vigorous  health  foi  i  wh  le 
year,  with  a  less  quantity  of  sleep  thiu  tliia 

It  is  said  that  women,  m  gtueiij,  requ  re  more  sleep  thin 
men.  This  is  doubttul  it  is  certain,  at  leiit,  thit  women  en 
dure  protracted  watefuluess  better  than  men  The  dcgri.&  jf 
muscular  and  mental  exertun  to  winch  the  male  is  icoustomcd 
would  seem  to  indii-ite  that  a  longer  peiiod  of  rest  ought  to  be 
required  by  him  to  admit  of  the  necessiry  restoration  of  excita 
bility.  In  infancy  and  jouth,  whete  the  animal  funotiona  aie 
estremely  active,  the  necessity  for  sleep  is  greatest,  in  mature 
age,  where  time  is  more  valued  and  cares  are  more  numerous, 
it  is  less  indulged ;  whilst  the  aged  may  be  affected  in  two  op- 
posite ways;  they  may  be  either  in  a  state  of  almost  constant 
somnolency,  or  their  sleep  may  be  short  and  light.  , 

There  are  some  remarkable  cases  on  record  of  deviations 
from  the  customary  amount  of  sleep,  making  a  "  bed  shorter 
than  for  an  ordinary  man  to  strefflh  himself  upon,  and  a  ooi-er- 
ing  narrower  than  he  can  wrap  himself  in,"  capacious  enough 
for  persons  of  very  active  habits  in  their  waking  hours.  Many 
persons  have  reached  advanced  age  without  ever  having  had 
more  than  one  or  two  hours'  sleep  out  of  the  twenty-four. 
There  is  one  case  of  a  man  who,  throughout  his  whole  life,  never 
slept  more  than  fifteen  minutes  at  one  tlmo.  General  Piohegru 
informed  Sir  (Jilbert  Blace  that,  in  the  course  of  his  active  cam- 
paigns, he  had  for  a  whole  year  not  more  than  one  hour  of  sleep 
in  the  twenty-four  hours.  Frederick  of  Prussia  and  Napoleon, 
as  a  general  thing,  only  devoted  three  or  four  hours  to  sleep. 

One  can  scarcely  conceive  a  more  horrible  mode  of  torture 
than  the  Chinese  plaa  of  condemning  criminals  to  death  by  pre- 
venting sleep.  The  victim  is  kept  awake  by  guards  alternately 
stationed  for  the  purpose.  His  sufferings  last  from  twelve  to 
twenty  days,  when  deatb  comes  to  his  relief. 


lyClOOglC 


458  THE  FANCIES   OP   FACT. 

Tlie  afluen  e  of  liab  t  a  promot  d^  or  p  e  ent  u  leep  a 
re  a  kable  Th  se  acoustou  e  1  to  th  tranqu  II  ty  of  rural  d  a 
t  ct3  are  escese  vely  annoyed  by  the  d  n  of  the  carnages  on 
the  paved  t\  oroughfires  of  a  hrge  c  ty  It  s  sa  1  on  the 
0  1  er  hand  tl  at  th  se  who  1  ve  rear  the  cataracts  of  the  N  e 
Odonot  sleep  at  i  d  tince  fron  the  n  o  v  ng  to  the  r  ha  ug 
become  aocu  tomed  to  the  no  se  the  st  mul  s  of  wh  h  p 
the  eir  thej  !ack  Some  pe  -sons  can  only  sleep  n  tl  e  d  rk 
we  kQew  a  womiQ  vho  flept  hi?  tu  ly  w  tii  a  candle  bu  n  ng 
lu  1  r  bed  oo  and  who  n  ar  ably  awoke  f  tl  e  1  ht  wont 
out  Some  of  the  sold  e  s  of  Bonaparte  s  army  w  d  s  ep 
after  xtrpnae  fat  g  e  and  exl  antt  on  on  the  gr  und  by  th 
fc  de  of  a  wenty  four  pounder  wh  oh  was  en  nt  y  hi  n 
S  mo  boys  s  ept  trom  feit  gue  on  board  of  "Velson  s  sh  p  at  the 
battle  of  the  Nila.  We  have  heard  of  a  boiler-maker  who 
could  go  to  sleep  in  a  boiler  while  the  workmen  were  constantly 
hammering  the  rivets. 

Sleep  can  persist  with  the  exercise  of  certain  muscles.  Cou- 
riers on  long  journeya  nap  on  horseback;  and  coautmou,  on 
their  boxes.  Amoag  the  impressive  iuoidents  of  Sir  John 
Moore's  disastrous  retreat  to  Corunna,  in  Spain,  not  the  least 
striking  is  the  recorded  fact  that  many  of  his  soldiers  steadily 
pursued  their  march  while  fast  asleep.  Burdach,  however, 
affirms  that  this  is  not  uncommon  among  soldiers.  Frankhn 
slept  nearly  an  hour  swimming  on  hia  back.  An  aociuaintance 
of  Dr.  D.,  travelling  with  a  party  in  North  Carolioa,  being 
greatly  fatigued,  was  observed  to  be  sound  asleep  in  his  saddle. 
His  horse,  being  a  better  walker,  went  far  in  advance  of  the 
rest.  On  crossing  a  hill,  they  found  him  on  the  ground, 
snoring  gently.  His  horse  had  fallen,  as  was  evident  from  his 
bruised  knees,  and  had  thrown  his  rider  on  his  head  on  a  hard 
surface,  without  waking  him. 

Animals  of  the  lower  orders  obey  peculiar  laws  in  regard  to 
sleep.  Eish  are  said  to  sleep  soundly  j  and  we  are  told  by 
Aristotle  that  the  tench  may  be  taken  in  this  state,  if  ap- 
proached cautiously.  Many  birds  and  beasts  of  prey  take  their 
repose  in  the  daytime.    When  kept  in  captivity,  this  habit  un- 


lyGoogle 


THE   PANrlES   or   F4CT  4'3't 

dergoes  a  change, — which  miLes  ns  doubt  whether  it  his  uot 
the  result  of  necessity,  which  deminded  that  they  should  til  e 
advantagQ  of  the  darkness,  silence,  and  the  unguarded  state  ot 
their  victima.  In  the  nienigerie  at  Pans,  even  the  hypna 
sleeps  at  night,  and  is  awake  by  day  They  all,  however,  seek, 
as  favoring  the  purpose,  a  certain  degree  of  seclusion  and  shade 
with  the  exception  of  the  hou,  who  Burdach  informs  ns,  sleeja 
at  noonday,  in  the  open  plain ,  ^nd  the  eagle  <uid  condor  will 
poise  themselves  on  the  most  elevated  pinnacle  of  lofi,  in  the 
clear  blue  atmosphere  and  dazBlmg  sunlight  Birds  howevei  are 
furnished  with  a  winking  mombr  me  generally,  tosheltei  the  eje 
from  light.  Fish  prefer  to  retire  to  sleep  under  the  shadow  of  a 
rock  or  a  woody  bank.  Of  domestic  animals,  the  horse  seems  to 
require  least  sleep;  and  that  he  usually  takes  in  the  erect  posture. 

Birds  that  roost  in  a  sitting  posture  are  furnished  with  a 
well-adapted  mechanism,  which  keeps  them  firmly  supported 
without  voluntary  or  cqnseious  action.  The  tendon  of  the  claws 
is  so  arranged  as  to  be  tightened  by  their  weight  when  the  thighs 
are  bent,  thus  contracting  closely  and  grasping  the  bough  or 
perch.  In  certain  other  animals  wtioh  sleep  erect,  the  articu- 
lations of  the  foot  and  knee  are  described  by  Dumeril  as  resem- 
bling the  spring  of  a  pocket-knifo,  which  opens  the  instrument 
and  serves  to  keep  the  blade  in  a  line  with  the  handle. 

The  following  calculation  is  interesting.  Suppose  one  boy 
aged  ten  years  determiues  to  rise  at  five  o'clock  all  the  year 
round.  Another  of  the  same  age,  indolent  and  fond  of  ease, 
rises  at  eight,  oi  an  average  of  eight,  every  morning.  If  thej 
both  live  to  be  seventy  years  old,  the  one  will  have  gained  over 
the  other,  during  the  intervening  period  of  sixty  years,  sixty- 
five  thousand  seven  hundred  and  forty-five  hours,  which  is  equal 
to  two  thousand  seven  hundred  and  thirty-nine  and  a  third  days, 
or  just  seven  and  a  half  years.  If  a  similar  calculation  were 
applied  to  the  whole  country,  how  many  millions  of  years  of 
individual  usefulness  would  it  prove  to  be  lost  to  society  ! 

"  God  bleaa  the  man  who  firet  inyentod  sleep  I" 

So  Sauoho  Pausa  said,  and  so  Bay  1 1 
And  blosa  him,  aiao,  that  he  didn't  keep 

Hia  great  discOFerv  to  himaelf,  or  try 


lyClOOglC 


THE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 


Tes— bless  the  man  nho  first  intanled  sleep, 

{I  reaJlj  can't  ftroid  the  iterationi) 
But  blaat  the  men,  with  cursea  loud  and  deep, 

Whal«'er  the  Taecsl'a  aame,  or  age,  or  statioa. 
Who  first  invented,  and  went  round  advising 
That  artificial  cut-off, — early  rising ! 
"  Rise  with  the  lark,  and  with  the  lark  to  hod," 

Observes  eome  aolomn,  sentimental  owl: 
Maxims  like  these  are  very  cheaply  said ; 

Bnt  ere  you  make  yourself  a  tool  or  fowl, 
Prajjnst  inquire  about  their  rise— and  faJl, 
And  irhethec  larks  have  any  beds  at  itll  t 
The  "Urns  for  boueat  folks  to  be  abed" 

Is  in  the  momhig,  if  I  reason  right  i 
And  he  who  cannot  keep  his  precious  head 

Upon  his  pillow  till  it's  Burly  light. 
And  so  enjoy  his  forty  morniag  winks, 
Ifl  up— to  knavery ;  or  else — he  drinks  ] 
Thomson,  who  enng  about  the  "  Seasons,"  said 

Bnt  then  ho  said  it— lying— m  his  bed 
At  ten  o'clock  A.  M,, — the  very  reason 

Awake  to  duty  and  awake  to  truth ; 
But  when,  alas !  a  nice  review  we  take 

Of  our  best  deeds  and  days,  we  find,  in  sooth. 
The  hours  that  leave  the  slightest  nausc  to  woep 
Are  those  we  passed  in  childhood,  or — asleep  I 
'Tis  beaudftil  to  leave  the  world  a  whilo 

For  the  soft  visions  of  the  ganlle  night. 

To  live,  as  only  in  the  angels'  sight, 
Where,  at  the  worst,  we  only  dream  of  sin ! 

I  like  the  lad  who,  whea  hie  father  thought 

To  clip  his  morning  nap  by  haoknejed  phrase 

Of  vagrant  worm  by  early  songster  oaught. 

The  warm  was  punished,  air,  for  early  rising '" 


lyGoogle 


THE   lANCIEa    or   FACT. 


OPIUM  AND   EAST  INDIAN  HEMP. 


There  is  notliiog  in  nature  more  curious  and  inexpliciible 
than  the  influence  on  the  circulating  fluids,  and  through  these  on 
the  hrainand  its  functions,  of  various  narcotic  drugs.  Among 
these,  opium,  and  Oamuilis  Indica,  or  East  Indian  hemp, 
occupy  the  most  prominent  place  No  reflettive  person  cin 
look  into  the  wntings  of  Coleridge,  De  Quiii:,ey,  or  Biyird 
Tijlor,  each  of  whom  his  espenenoed  the  eftects  jf  these 
drug^  in  his  own  perarn,  and  giapbicaJlj  desDribed  his  seasa 
tions,  thoughts,  feelings,  and  dreams  while  under  their  mflu 
cnce,  without  hemg  struck  with  awe  and  astonishment  at  the 
modifying  ind  disturbing  influences  which  these  substances 
osort  upon  that  mysterious  connection  which  exists  between 
the  mind  and  the  mateii^l  medium  through  whioh  it  manifests 
Itself  Take  the  following,  for  example,  from  the  Omje^nms 
of  an  Englihh  Opivm  Eater,  whi  h,  not  only  for  jjrandeur  ot 
description  but  for  psychological  interest,  is  uniuip^sed  by 
any  thing  in  the  English  Hnguage 

"The  driam  commenced  with  a  music  which  now  I  often  heard 
in  dieams, — a  music  of  preparation  and  of  awakening  suspense , 
a  music  like  the  opening  of  the  Coronation  Anthem,  and  which, 
like  thai,  gave  the  feeling  of  a  vast  march— of  infinite  oavdJ- 
cades  filing  off,  and  the  tread  of  innumerable  armies.  The 
morning  was  eome  of  a  mighty  day — a  day  of  crisis  and  uf 
final  hope  for  human  nature,  then  suffering  some  mysterious 
eclipse  and  laboring  in  some  dread  extremity.  Somewhere,  I 
knew  not  where — somehow,  I  knew  not  hoW' — by  some  beings, 
I  knew  not  whom — a  battle,  a  strife,  an  agony,  was  conducting, 
—was  evolving  lite  a  great  drama,  or  piece  of  music;  with 
which  my  sympathy  was  the  more  insupportable  from  my  con- 
fusion aa  to  its  place,  its  cause,  its  nature,  and  its  pnsaible 
issue.     I,  as  is  usual  in  dreams,  (where,  of  necessity,  we  make 


lyClOOglC 


462  THE  FANCIES   OP   FACT, 

ourselves  central  to  every  movement,)  had  the  power,  and  yet 
had  uot  the  power,  to  decide  it.  I  had  the  power,  if  I  could 
raise  mjself,  to  will  it;  and  yet  agaio  had  not  the  power,  for 
the  weijjht  of  twenty  Atlautiea  was  upon  me,  or  the  oppression 
of  inexpiable  guilt. 

"  '  Deeper  than  ever  plummet  sounded,'  I  lay  inactive.  Theo, 
like  a  chorus,  the  passion  deepened.  Somegreater  interest  was  at 
stake, — some  mightier  cause  than  ever  yet  the  sword  had 
pleaded  or  trumpet  had  proclaimed.  Then  came  sudden 
alarms;  hurryings  to  and  fro;  trepidations  of  innumerable 
fugitives — I  knew  not  whether  from  the  good  cause  or  the  bad ; 
darkness  and  lights;  tempest  and  humao  faces;  and,  at  last, 
with  the  sense  that  all  was  lost,  female  forms,  and  the  features 
that  were  worth  all  the  world  to  me,  and  but  a  moment  allowed 
— and  clasped  hands,  and  heart-breaking  partings,  and  then 
everlasting  farewells  !  and,  with  a  sigh  such  as  the  caves  of  hcli 
sighed  when  the  incestuous  mother  uttered  the  abhorred  name 
of  death,  the  ^ound  was  leverberited — everlasting  farewells! 

and  a^ain,  and  yet  igiin,  reverberated, — everlasting   farewells  ! 

And  I  awoke  in  struggles,  and  cned  aJoud,  '  I  will  sleep  no 

De  Quinuey  took  hudanum  for  the  first  time  to  dispel  pain, 
and  he  thus  dci^.nbes  the  effect  it  had  upon  him: — "But  I 
took  it,  and  in  an  hour,  oh  heavens '  what  a  revulsion !  what 
an  uphi,a\  ing  from  its  lowest  depths,  of  the  inner  spirit  I  what 
an  apotalvp^e  of  the  world  witbm  me '  That  my  pains  had 
vanished  wis  now  a  tnfle  in  my  ejes  Tbis  iiegative  effect  was 
swallowed  up  m  the  immensity  of  those  positive  effects  which 
had  opened  before  me, — lu  the  abyss  of  divine  enjoyment  thus 
suddenly  revealed  Here  was  a  panicea,— -a  qiapixaxov  vtjisudsz 
for  all  humm  woes  Here  wis  the  secret  of  happiness,  about 
which  philosophers  had  disputed  foi  sj  many  ages,  at  once  dis- 
coverpd '  Happiness  might  now  be  bought  for  a  penny  and 
carried  in  tht  waistcoit  pocket ,  portable  ecsfasiea  might  he 
had  corked  up  in  a  pint  bottle ,  and  peace  of  mind  could  be 
sent  down  m  gallons  by  the  mail  coieh  " 


lyClOOglC 


THE    PANCtES   OF   FACT.  463 

Dr.  Madden  describes  more  soberly  his  senaatious  wlien  un 
der  the  iufluenoe  of  the  drug  it)  one  of  the  ooifee-houses  at  Con- 
stantinople "I  commenced  with  one  gram  In  the  course  of 
an  hour  ind  i  hilf  it  produced  no  pereoptihle  effect  The 
coftei,  house  keeper  was  very  anxious  to  give  me  an  dddittonal 
pill  of  two  grains  hut  I  was  contented  with  half  a  one ,  and  in 
another  half  hour,  feiling  nothing  of  the  expected  revery,  I 
took  half  1  grain  moie,  nuking  m  all  two  grains  in  thp  course 
of  two  honn  After  two  hjuis  aid  a  half  from  the  firit  dose, 
my  spirits  became  senaibly  excited  the  pleasure  of  the  sensa- 
tion seemed  to  depend  on  a  universal  expansion  of  mmd  and 
matter  My  iaculties  appearpd  enlar^d ,  every  thing  I  looked 
at  seemed  increased  in  yolume ,  I  had  no  longer  the  same 
pleasnro  whep  I  closed  my  eyps  which  I  had  when  they  were 
open  J  It  appealed  to  me  as  it  it  wis  only  external  objects 
what  weie  acted  on  by  the  imagination  and  magnified  into 
imiges  of  pleasure  in  short,  it  wis  the  'faint,  exq^msite  music 
of  a  dream  in  a  waking  moment  I  made  my  way  home 
as  fist  as  possible,  dreading  at  every  step  that  I  shculd  com- 
mit some  extiavaginoe  In  walking,  t  was  hardly  sensible  of 
my  teet  teaching  the  ground  it  seemed  as  if  I  slid  along  the 
t      p  II  d  by     m  hi     g  d  th     my  bl    d  w 

mp     d    f   s  me      h      al  flu  d    wl     1  d      i   my  h  dy 

Igl        thn  Igt        bJhmmntlahdh 

TI      m    t     St       d  n    y         n      f  d  1    It  til  d   ny  b  -a  n     II 

It      Intl       n  gl  pladdip        dmyhd 

a  h  1     my  h  dy  w  d  b  1 1  t  d  t!    t  I  w        bl      d  t 

mam  on  the  sota  all  day,  dearly  paying  for  my  first  essay  at 
opium-eating." 

These  sfter-offects  are  the  source  of  the  misery  of  the  opium- 
eater.  The  exciting  influence  of  the  drug  is  almost  invariably 
followed  by  a  corresponding  depression.  The  susceptibility  to 
external  impressions  and  the  muscular  energy  are  both  lessened. 
A  desire  for  repose  ensues,  and  a  tendency  to  sleep.  The  mouth 
and  throat  also  become  dry;  the  thirst  is  increased;  hunger 
diminishes;  and  the  bowels  usually  become  torpid. 


lyGoogle 


464  THE  FAKCIES   OF   FACT. 

When  large  (Juses  are  taken,  all  tte  above  effeuts  are  has- 
tened and  hoightened  in  proportion.  The  period  of  dtprebsion 
comes  on  sooner;  the  prostration  of  energy  increaaes  to  actual 
stupor,  with  or  without  dreams;  the  pnlse  becomes  feeble,  the 
MUBcles  esoeedingly  relaxed  ;  and,  if  enough  has  been  taken, 

Of  oourse,  all  these  effeotB  are  modified  by  the  constitution  of 
the  individual,  by  the  length  of  time  he  has  accustomed  him- 
self to  take  it,  and  by  the  circumstances  in  which  he  is  placed 
But  upon  all  persons,  and  in  all  circumstanoes,  its  final  effects, 
lite  those  of  ardent  s_pirit8  taken  in  large  and  repeated  dcsos, 
are  equally  melancholy  and  degrading.  "  A  total  attenuation 
of  body,"  says  Dr.  Oppenheim,  "  a  withered,  yellow  counte- 
nance, a  lame  gait,  a  bending  of  the  spine,  fret^uently  to  such 
a  degree  as  to  assume  a  circular  form,  and  glassy,  deep-sunken 
eyes,  betray  the  opium-eater  at  the  firat  glance.  The  digestive 
organs  are  in  the  highest  degree  disturbed :  the  sufferer  eaN 
scarcely  any  thing,  and  has  hardly  one  evacuation  in  a  week. 
His  mental  and  bodily  powers  are  destroyed  :  he  is  impoteut." 

The  influenoe  upon  the  mental  faculties  of  JTatchhrh,  or 
East  Indian  hemp,  when  taken  In  large  doses,  is  no  less  extra- 
ordinary than  that  of  opium. 

That  accomplished  traveller,  Bayard  Taylor,  when  in  Damas- 
cus, "  prompted,"  as  he  says,  "  by  that  insatiable  curiosity 
which  led  him  to  prefer  the  acquisition  of  ail  lawful  knowledge 
through  the  channel  of  his  own  experience,"  was  induced  to 
make  a  trial  of  this  drug.  Not  knowing  the  strength  of  the 
preparation  he  employed,  he  found  himself,  shortly  after  taking 
the  second  dose,  more  flioroughly  and  completely  under  the 
influence  of  the  drug  than  was  either  pleasant  or  safe. 

Speaking  of  the  effects  of  the  stronger  dose,  be  says,  "  The 
same  fine  nervous  thrill  of  which  T  have  spoken  suddenly  shot 
through  me.  But  this  time  it  was  accompanied  with  a  burning 
sensation  at  the  pit  of  the  stomach ;  and,  instead  of  growing 
upon,  me  vrith  the  gradual  pace  of  healthy  slumber,  and  re- 
Bolving  me,  as  before,  into  air,  it  came  with  the  intensity  of  a 


lyGoogle 


THE   F4N0IES   OF   P4.CT  465 

fang,  aad  shot  ttro  h    n  li 

of  my  body.    The  s  m  —  li         fl 

senses  witliin  the  bo     d  w    fleah      d  b     d — 

fell  away.     The  wa  j    ram    w  w    d 

tumbled  into  niin  jdwit        hk       w  mw      — ■ 

losing  sight  even  o  m  —  h 

throughout  a  vast  ete  p  T  dpdmm 

heart,  sped  through  ted       g        b  h  d  uiy 

estremitiea ;  the  air  d    w  y 

of  limpid  ether;  am     h        h      m     k      w  h       h 

vault  of  heaven.    W  ca       h  d        b        w 

the  fathomless  deep         b  d.    fi       d     h  h 

winds  of  heaven  roll  d   h  g    h  h 

of  the  sun.     It  was —         h  I   h  n  h  h      m 

— lUce  a  revelation  uj  the  m>)!>ti.ry  of  Omni]jreieni.e. 

EIFECTa  OF  FEAR. 
It  is  a  common  practice,  in  many  parts  of  India,  to  oblige 
persons  suspected  of  crimes  to  chew  dry  rice  in  presence  of 
the  officers  of  the  law.  Curious  as  it  may  appear,  such  is. 
the  intense  influence  of  fear  on  the  salivary  glands,  that,  if  they 
are  actually  guilty,  there  is  no  secretion  of  saliva  in  the  mouthy, 
and  chewing  ia  imposaible  Such  culprits  generally  confess., 
without  any  further  cfForta.  On  the  contrary,  a  consciousness 
of  innocence  allows  of  a  proper  flow  of  fluid  for  softening  the. 

Many  of  our  reader'!  are  familiar  with  the  case  of  the  thief  to 
whom,  in  common  with  other  su'ipeoled  persons  a  stick  of  t 
certain  length  was  given,  with  the  assurance  that  the  stick  of 
the  thief  mould  grow  by  supernatural  power  The  eulpnt,  ima 
gining  that  his  stick  had  actually  incioascd  in  length  br  ki  a 
piece  off,  and  was  thus  detected  A  similar  ineciote  lo  t^ld  of 
a  farmer  who  detected  depl^dations  on  his  corn  bin  by  calhng 
his  men  together  and  making  tbem  mis  up  a  (juantity  of 
feathers  in  a  sieve,  assuring  thom,  at  the  lame  time  that  the 
feathers  would  infallibly  stick  to  the  hair  of  the  thief      After 


lyClOOglC 


466  THE   rAMCtES    OP    PACT, 

a  short  time,  one  of  the  men  raised  Lis  band  repeatedly  to  his 
head,  and  thus  befrayed  himself. 

■  A  Parisian  phyeioijin,  during  his  visits  m^de  in  a  hired  flj, 
had  received  a  bottle  of  real  Jamai<-a  rum  is  a  sample,  but 
found,  after  returning  home,  that  be  hid  left  It  .n  the  carria:;e 
He  weut  to  the  ofBce,  and  informed  the  manager  thit  he  had 
left  a  virulent  poison  in  one  of  the  oirriages,  and  desired  him 
to  prevent  any  of  the  coachmen  from  drinking  it  Hardly  hid 
he  gi)t  bacb  when  he  was  summoned  in  gieat  haste  to  thiee  of 
these  worthies,  who  were  suffering  from  the  most  horrible  coUl  , 
and  great  was  his  difficulty  in  persuading  them  that  they  bad 
only  stolen  some  most  escellent  rum. 

One  of  the  most  singular  examples  on  leoord  of  the  effei-t  of 
fear  acting  through  the  imagination  is  given  byBrpsi,hit  i 
French  author  of  the  sixteenth  century,  who  inloiuis  us  that 
the  physicians  at  Montpellier,  which  was  then  a  greit  -chjol  of 
medicine,  had  every  year  two  criminals,  the  one  living,  the  other 
dead,  delivered  to  them  for  dissection.  On  one  occasion  they  de 
termined  to  try  what  effect  the  mere  expectation  of  dc  ith  would 
produce  upon  a  subject  in  perfect  beailb ,  and  in  order  to  cany 
out  the  experiment  they  told  the  gentkmaa  (f  jr  such  was  hia 
rank)  who  was  placed  at  their  discretion,  that,  as  the  eaMpst 
mode  of  taking  away  bis  life,  they  would  employ  the  means 
which  Seneca  had  chosen  for  himself,  and  would  therefore  open 
his  veins  in  warm  water.  Accordingiy  they  covered  bis  face, 
pinched  bis  feet,  without  lancing  tbom,  and  set  them  in  a  fojt- 
bath,  and  then  spoke  to  each  other  as  if  they  siw  that  the 
blood  was  flowing  freely,  and  life  departing  with  it  The  man 
remained  motionless  ;  and  when,  after  a  while,  they  unroiered 
his  face,  they  found  him  dead. 

FACIAl  EXPRESSION. 

The  facial  nerve,  which  presides  over  the  movements  of  the 
face,  gives  to  the  physiognomy  its  different  expressions  so  as  to  re- 
flect the  passions  and  emotions  of  the  soul.  To  prove  this  experi- 
mentally, Charles  Bell  took  the  most  cunning  and  impressionable 


lyClOOglC 


THE  FANCIES   OP   FACT.  46/ 

monkey  he  could  find  in  the  menagerie  of  Exeter  Change,  and 
dividcid  its  facial  neri'e  on  one  side.  Excited  by  pniu,  the  poor 
monkey  made  faces  with  tenfold  energy,  but  esactly  ami  snleiy 
with  one  side  of  his  face,  while  the  other  reiiiaiiied  perfectly 
impassible. 

Of  course,  no  one  would  repeat  this  esperiment  on  man;  but 
nature  sometimes  takes  the  ivhiiii  to  niake  such  a  curiosity. 
Al!  who  saw  the  unfortunate  monkey  were  stiuck  witli  the 
strange  anahigj  which  its  fentures  pieseoted  with  those  of  a 
comic  actor  then  luuch  in  vogue  in  London,  who  cnuld  rejjro- 
duee  all  sorts  of  expressions  and  mirror  every  passion  with  i;ae 
side  of  his  face,  while  he  kept  the  other  side  in  a  state  of  per- 
fect immobility.  The  esperimeut  of  Charles  Bell  gave  the  key 
to  the  enigma.  The  mimic  was  the  victim  of  a  faciiil  hemi- 
piegiii,  from  some  accident  to  the  facial  nerve;  and  he  had  the 
shrewdness  to  make  people  believe  that  vohinlary  which  ha 
could  not  prevent,  and  thus  to  profit  by  aa  otherwise  mortify- 
IBS  affliction. 


The  following  interesting  case  of  a  literally  hroTcen  heart  was 
related  by  a  lale  distinguished  medical  professor  of  Philadel- 
phia, to  his  class,  while  lecturing  upon  the  diseases  of  the 
heart.  It  will  he  seen,  on  perusing  it, .that  the  expression 
"  bra  ken -hearted"  is  not  merely  figurative. 

In  the  early  part  of  his  career.  Dr.  Mitchell  accompaniei,  as 
surgeon,  a  packet  that  sailed  between  Liverpool  and  one  of  our 
Southern  ports.  On  the  ret ii in- voyage,  soon  after  leaving 
Liverpool,  while  the  doctor  and  the  captain  of  the  vessel,  a 
weather-beaten  son  of  Neptune,  but  possessed  of  uncommonly 
fine  feelings  and  strong  impulses,  were  conversing  in  the 
latter's  atate-room,  the  captain  opened  a  large  ehest,  and  care- 
fully took  out  a  number  of  articles  of  various  descriptions, 
which  he  arranged  upon  a  table.  Dr.  M.,  surprised  at  tJie  dis- 
play of  costly  jewels,  ornaments,  dresses,  and  all  the  varied 
paraphernalia  of  which  ladies  are  naturally  fond,  inquired  of 


lyGoogle 


468  T 

the  captain  his  object  in  haviog  made  ao  many  valuable  pur- 
ehases.  The  sailor,  in  reply,  said,  that  for  scveo  or  eight  years 
be  bad  been  derotedlj  attached  to  a,  lHdj,'to  whom  be  bad 
several  times  made  proposals  of  marriage,  but  was  as  often  re- 
jected; that  her  refusal  to  wed  him,  however,  had  only  stimu- 
lated his  love  to  greater  exertion ;  and  that  finally,  upon  re- 
newing his  offer,  declaring  in  the  ardency  of  his  passion  that, 
without  her  society,  life  was  not  worth  living  for,  she  consented 
to  become  his  bride  upon  his  return  from  his  next  voyage.  He 
was  so  overjoyed  at  the  prospect  of  a  marriage  from  which,  ia 
the  warmth  of  his  feelings,  he  probably  anticipated  more  happi- 
ness than  is  usually  allotted  to  mortals,  that  he  spent  all  his 
ready  money,  while  in  London,  for  bridal  gifts.  After  gazing 
at  them  fondly  for  some  time,  and  remarking  on  them  ia  turo, 
Ihkhwp  A  dimuh    will  like 

h       p       dhmwhh  oaca         Tb  emony 

hpd         ydyd  ^J  hdr  often 

d  f,  h  h      p  he  pleasure 

hwudh        np  mhfli  bde.     On 


h        dy 

h  d  p        d  un 

h  u    to 

u         pjsed  ID 

dh  d 

h 

h  wh 

h 

h  d  d    amped 

b 

I            J 

p        w 

d          lap  bis 

h     b 

d  f      h 

y       h 

d      He  was 

P       <3 

y       h 

m         h 

D     M.  was 

m         d     h      b 

h 

d    h      oor  eap- 

w     d 

d      A  p      m 
u         d 

ed  the 

H    h 

w 

n       terally 

w 

Th               d 

p      u 

b     d,  COD- 

P 

n 

h    k 

d   h    p  werful 

u 

w 

heart 

lyGoogle 


SENSATION    AND   INTELLIGENCE    ilTEa  DECAPiTiTK^ 

While  some  pijsi  logists  are  of  op  oion  thj,t  dedtli  by  be 
he  ding  la  attended  with  less  act  lal  pain  than  any  Dther  man 
nerofdeith  an  I  is  therefore  the  most  Aunia/r' mode  of  d  s 
embarrassing  Booiety  of  a  villain  othors  contenl  and  ad  lice 
an  eiually  t  rmidable  arrij  of  facts  to  show,  that  intense  daOny 
IS  experienced,  after  deoolktion  in  both  the  head  and  the 
bo  ly  an  1  that  death  by  the  guillotine  su  far  fiom  being;  easier 
than  hanging  is  oieof  the  most  piinful  known  Whateyei 
may  really  be  the  sen  ations  attendant  upon  the  separation  of 
the  heil  from  the  body  we  have  at  least  some  cu  loua  facta 
which  thiow  a  little  light  on  the  subject 

It  la  related  that  ■»  profet.t.or  of  physi  lo^y  at  Genoa  who 
has  made  this  intei  est  n^  subject  his  piitieular  ululy  states 
thit  having  exposed  two  heads  a  quarter  of  m  hour  aftei  le 
collition  to  a  str  ng  liE,ht  the  eyelids  closed  suddenly  The 
tongue  which  piotrudcd  f  om  the  iipa  being  pricked  with  a 
needle  was  drawn  back  into  the  mouth  and  the  c  untenanco 
expiessed  sudde  i  pa  a  The  hetd  of  a  on  ninal  nai  ''d  Tillici 
being  submitted  to  esaminati  n  after  the  gu  Uutine  the  eyes 
turned  m  every  direction  fiom  whence  he  was  calle  1  by  name 

Fonteuelle  deolarei  thft  he  has  fiequently  seen  the  heads  of 
guillotined  persons  move  then  !ip  as  if  they  weie  uttcri  ^ 
remonstrmces  against  their  cruel  tieatmcnt  If  this  be  so 
there  is  nothing  very  incredible  in  the  report  sometimes  tioated 
as  fibnlous  th  t  when  the  executioner  ^ave  a  blow  on  the  fi  e 
of  Charlotte  Corday  after  the  head  was  severed  from  the  body, 
the  countenance  expressed  violent  indignation. 

It  is  stated  on  credible  authority  that  some  galvanic  experi- 
ments were  once  tried  on  the  body  of  a  habitual  snuff-takcr, 
after  he  had  undergone  the  operation  of  being  guillotined.  On 
receiving  the  first  shock,  the  headless  trunk  joined  its  thumb 
and  fore-finger,  and  deliberately  raised  its  right  arm,  as  if  in 
the  act  of  taking  its  customary  j^incA,  and  seemed  much  asto- 
nished and  perplexed  at  finding  no  nose  to  receive  its  wonted 
tribute ! 


lyGoogle 


470  THjE   FANCIES   OF   FACT. 

But  the  most  mawollous  tale  is  fold  of  Sir  Everard  Digbj, 
who  was  beheaded  in  1606  for  being  concerned  in  the  famous 
Gunpowder  Plot.  Afior  the  head  was  struck  off,  the  esecu- 
tioner  proceeded,  according  to  the  barbarous  usages  of  the  day, 
to  pluck  the  heart  from  his  body;  and  when  he  had  done  so,  ho 
held  it  up  in  full  view  of  the  nuuieroua  assemblage  gathered 
round  the  scaffold  to  witness  the  exhibition,  and  shouted,  with 
a  loud  voice,  This  is  the  heart  of  a  traitor!  Upon  which,  the 
head,  which  was  qnietly  resting  on  the  scaffold,  at  the  distance 
of  a,  few  feet,  showed  sundry  signs  of  indignation,  and,  opening 
its  mouth,  audibly  exekinied,  "That  is  a  lie!" 

The  reader  will  be  reminded,  by  this  case  of  the  English 
knight,  of  the  conjurer  in  the  Arabian  Nighia,  who,  iu  conse- 
quence of  a,  failure  in  his  necromancy,  was  decapitated  by  the 
order  and  iu  the  presence  of  the  Sultan.  The  head  of  the  sor- 
cerer, after  separation  from  his  body,  sat  erect  upon  the  floor, 
and,  with  a  mysterious  expression  of  countenance,  informed  his 
highness  that  as  he  rather  thought  ho  should  have  no  further 
occasion  for  his  books  of  magic,  he  would  make  a  present  of 
them  to  him ;  and  since  he  oould  not  very  well  go  to  fetch  them 
liim?elt  if  his  hi.,hne?s  would  take  the  trouble  to  send  fur 
(hem  he  would  in  trutt  hini  m  their  use  On  bting  hroua;ht 
he  told  the  Sultan  it  Wt"  first  nere'ssary  fir  him  to  turn  o\er 
every  leal  m  the  book"^  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  But 
he  found  it  Wis  impossible  to  do  this  as  they  stuck  together, 
without  oftm  wUting  his  finqers  at  his  mouth  This  intused 
into  the  monarch  s  leins  a  subtle  and  iiiuknt  venom,  as  the 
books  wi.ro  pjisoned  in  lonsequence  of  which  he  died  very 
soon  in  torluie,  overwhelmed  with  the  taunts  and  cuisos  of  the 
decapitated  head 

A  (.ase  occurred  some  yeaia  igo  it  Tioonderoga,  N  Y  ,  which 
settles  tiie  question  of  pain,  so  far  as  the  body  is  coni.eini'd 
and  proves  that  no  sensations  whatever  can  exi^t  in  the  hjJij 
after  its  connetli  n  w  th  the  braiu  18  dissolved  It  was  it 
p  rteJ  It  the  t  me  in  the  Boston  Medical  and  Surgu,al  Journal 
as  follows  — 


lyGoogle 


TOE  FANCIES   OF   FACT.  471 

E,  D.,  aged  fifty,  a  man  of  hale  constitution  and  robust,  iu 
makiDg  an  effort  to  scale  a  boitrd  fence,  was  suddenly  precipi- 
tated backwards  to  the  ground,  striking  first  upon  the  supe- 
rior and  anlerior  portion  of  the  head,  which  luxated  the 
deotatus  anteriorly  on  the  third  cervical  vertebra.  He  was  at 
length  discovered,  and  taken  iu  (as  the  patient  said)  after  ho 
had  laiu  nearly  an  hour,  in  a  condition  perfectly  bereft  of  volun- 
tary motion ;  but,  being  present,  I  did  not  suspect  that  the 
power  of  sensation  was  also  gone,  until  the  patient  (whose 
speech  remained  almost,  or  quite,  perfect,  and  who  was  uncom- 
monly loquacious  at  that  time)  said,  did  he  Dot  know  to  the 
contrary,  he  should  think  that  he  had  no  body.  His  flesh  was 
then  punctured,  and  sometimes  deeply,  even  froni  the  feet  to 
the  neek;  but  the  patient  gave  no  evidence  of  feeling,  and, 
when  interrogated,  answered  that  he  felt  nothing;  and,  added 
he,  '■  I  never  was  more  perfectly  free  from  pain  in  my  life;" 
but  he  remarked  that  he  could  not  live,  and  accmdlngly  sent 
for  his  family,  twelve  miles  distant,  and  arranged  all  his  various 

The  bead  was  thrown  back  in  such  a  position  as  to  prevent 
his  seeing  his  bndy.  The  pulse  was  much  more  sluggish  than 
natural.  Respiration  and  speech,  but  slightly  aflccted,  were 
gradually  failing;  but  he  could  articulate  distinctly  until 
within  a  few  minutes  of  his  death.  All  the  senses  of  the  head 
remained  quite  perfect  to  the  last.  He  died  forty-eight  hours 
after  the  fall. 


Repeated  attempts  we 

re  made  to  redu 

ce  the  dislocation 

but 

the  trun 

veree  processes 

had  become  so 

mterlocked  that  e 

■ery 

effort  pi- 

ved  abortive.. 

There  was   und 

ubtedly  in  this  ca 

perfect  c 

Dmpression  of  the  spinal  marrow 

which  prevented 

the 

egreps  of 

nervous  influe 

ce  from  the  brai 

n,  wliile  the  pneumo- 

gastric  n 

rvo  remained  u 

nembarrasscd. 
ANTIPATHIES. 

Antip 

thics  are  as  v 

irious   as   they  a 

0  unaccountiible. 

and 

often  in 

ppearanoe  ridi 

ulous.     Yet  who  can  control  there 

,or 

lyGoogle 


472  THE   FANCIES   OF   FAOT. 


reason  himself  into  a  conviction  that  they  are  absurd  ?  Thej 
are,  in  truth,  natural  infirmities  or  peculiarities,  and  not  fiintas- 
tical  imaginiogs.  In  the  Prenoh  "Ana"  we  find  mention  of 
a  kdy  who  would  faint  on  seeing  boiled  lobsters ;  and  several 
persons  are  mentioned,  among  tbem  Mary  de  Mediois,  who 
experienced  the  same  inconvenience  from  the  smell  of  roses, 
though  partioularlj  partial  to  the  odor  of  jonquils  and  hya- 
cinths. Another  is  recorded  who  invariably  fell  into  oonvul- 
eioDS  at  the  sight  of  a  carp.  Erasmus,  although  a  native  of 
Rotterdam,  had  such  an  aversion  to  fish  of  any  kind  tiiat  the 
smell  alone  threw  him  into  a  fever,  Ambrose  Par^  mentions 
a,  patient  of  his  who  could  never  look  at  an  eel  without  falling 
iato  a  fit.  Joseph  Sealiger  and  Peter  Abono  could  neitter  of 
them  drink  milk.  Cardan  was  particularly  disgusted  at  the  sight 
of  eggs.  Ladislaus,  King  of  Poland,  fell  sick  if  he  saw  an  apple ; 
and  if  that  fruit  was  exhibited  to  Chesae,  secretary  to  Francis  I., 
a  prodigious  quantity  of  blood  would  issue  from  his  nose.  Henry 
III  of  France  could  not  endure  to  sit  in  a  room  with  a  cat, 
ind  the  Duke  of  Sohombarg  ran  out  of  any  chamber  into  which 
tne  enteied  A  gentleman  in  the  court  of  the  Bcnperor  Fer- 
dinind  would  bleed  at  the  nose  even  if  he  heard  the  mewing 
ot  the  obnoxious  animal,  no  matter  at  how  great  a  distance. 
M  de  1  Anore,  in  his  Tableau  de  I' Inconsiance  de  Fouies 
CliObes  gives  an  account  of  a  very  sensible  man,  who  was  so 
teirihed  tn  seeing  a  hedgehog  that  for  two  years  he  imagined 
1 1«  bowels  were  gnawed  by  sueb  an  animal.  In  the  same  book 
we  find  an  account  of  an  officer  of  distinguished  bravery  wlio 
never  dared  to  face  a  mouse,  it  would  so  terrify  him,  unless  he 
had  his  sword  in  his  hand.  M.  de  I'Ancre  says  he  knew  the 
individual  perfectly  well.  There  are  some  persons  who  cannot 
bear  to  see  spiders,  and  others  who  eat  them  as  a  luxury,  as 
they  do  snails  and  frogs,  M.  Vangheim,  a  celebrated  hunts- 
man in  Hanover,  would  faint  outright,  or,  if  he  had  sufficient 
time,  would  run  away,  at  the  sight  of  a  roast  pig.  The  philo- 
sopher Chrysippus  had  such  an  aversion  to  externa]  revorence, 
that,  if  any  one  saluted  him,  be  would  involuntarily  fall  down. 


lyGoogle 


FANCIES    or   FACT. 


473 


Valerina  Maximus  says  that  ttis  Ctrysippua  died  of  laughing 
at  seeing  aa  ass  eat  figs  out  of  a  silrer  plate.  Joho  Rol,  a  gen- 
tleman of  Alcantara,  would  swoon  on  healing  the  word  laua 
(wool)  pronounced,  although  hia  cloak  was  made  of  wool. 
Lord  Bacon  fainted  at  every  eclipse  of  the  moon.  Tycho  Braho 
shuddered  at  the  sight  of  a  fox  j  Ariosto,  at  the  sight  of  a  bath ; 
and  Csesai'  trembled  at  the  crowing  of  a  cook. 


J   INSTANCE  or  SYMPATHY. 

The  Duke  de  Saint  Simon  mentions  in  his  Mimoires 
lar  instance  of  constitutional  sjmp  hy  x  g  b  w 
brothers.  These  were  twins, — the  P  d  n  d 
and  the  Governor  de  Bergues,  who  w  uip 
only  in  their  persons,  but  in  their  fc  g  0 
tells  us,  when  the  President  was  at  th  y 
suddenly  attacked  hy  an  intense  pain  h  h 
instant,  as  it  was  discovered  afterwa  d  h  b 
with  the  army,  received  a  severe  w  d  n 
same  leg,  and  precisely  the  same  par         h 


nq 


h      w 


WALKING   I 

The  difficulty  of  walking  to  any  given  point  blindfolded  can 
only  be  conceived  by  those  who  have  made  the  experiment. 
After  wandering  about  in  every  possible  direction,  now  east, 
now  west,  at  one  time  forward,  at  another  time  backward, 
working  for  a  while  at  the  aigzag,  then  shooting  out  like  an 
arrow  from  a  bow,  and  not  unfrequently  describing  a  completo 
circle  like  a  miller's  horse,  the  party  is  generally  a  thousand 
times  more  likely  to  end  his  travels  at  the  spot  from  which  he 
set  out,  than  at  the  spot  to  which  he  wished  to  go.  The  follow- 
ing achievement  presents  as  extraordinary  an  exception  to  the 
general  experience  on  this  head,  as  perhaps  ever  occurred ; — 

Dennis  Ilendriok,  a  stone-mason,  for  a  wager  of  ten  guineas, 
walked  from  the  Exchange  in  Liverpool,  along  Deal  Street,  to 
the  corner  of  Byrora  Street, — being  a  distance  of  three-quarters 
of  a  mile, — blindfolded,  and  rolling  a  coach-wheel.  On  starting, 


lyClOOglC 


474  THE  FANCIES  OF  fact. 

tiere  were  two  plasters  of  Burgundy  pitch  put  on  bis  eyes,  and 
a  handliorcbief  tied  over  them,  to  prevent  all  poesibilJtj  of  his 
seeiitg.  He  started  precisely  at  balf-paat  seven  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  completad  his  undertaking  at  twenty  miuutea  past 
eight,  being  in  fifty  miuutea. 

FELINE  CLOCKS. 
M.  Hue,  in  his  recent  work  on  the  Chinese  Empire,  tells  ua 
that  "  one  day,  when  wo  went  to  pay  a  visit  to  some  familiea 
of  Chinese  Christian  peasants,  we  met,  near  a  farm,  a  young 
lad,  who  was  taking  a  buffalo  to  graze  along  our  path.  We 
asked  him  carelessly,  as  we  passed,  whether  it  w:is  yet  noon. 
The  child  raised  hia  head  to  look  at  the  sun;  but  it  was  hidden 
behind  thick  olouda,  and  he  could  read  no  answer  there.  'The 
sly  3  80  cl  udy  sa  d  I  c  but  watt  a  noment  and  w  th 
theae  woi  Is  he  lan  towirds  tl  e  farm  and  oa  ne  back  a  few  n 
me  ts  aferwadwilh  a  cat  n  his  am  a  Look  here  bj  \ 
he  t  3  not  noon  j  et  and  he  si  o  ve  1  us  the  ctt  a  ej  es  I  y 
p  h  g  up  the  Ida  w  tl  h  s  ha  ds  We  looked  it  the  ch  Id 
w  tl  su  1  c  I  ut  I  e  was  ev  de  tly  a  ea  nest  nd  the  c  t 
tlo  j,h  a  on  led  an!  not  uu  h  pleased  at  the  csj  e  ent 
n  iAq  on  he  eyes  behave  I  y  tl  the  n  ost  exc  plarj  &  upla 
aanee  \  cry  wel  sa  d  we  th  nk  jou  and  he  1  en  1  t 
go  the  oat,  who  made  her  escape  pretty  quickly,  and  we  con- 
tinued our  route.  To  say  the  truth,  we  had  not  at  all  under- 
stood the  proceeding;  but  we  did  not  wish  to  question  the  little 
pagan,  lest  he  should  find  out  that  we  were  Europeans  by  our 
ignorance.  Aa  soon  as  we  reached  the  farm,  however,  we  made 
haste  to  ask  our  Christians  whether  they  could  tell  the  clock  by 
looking  into  a  eat'a  eyes.  They  seemed  aurprised  at  the  ques- 
tion ;  but,  as  there  was  no  danger  in  confessing  to  them  our 
ignorance  of  the  properties  of  the  cat's  eyes,  we  related  what 
had  just  taken  place.  That  was  all  that  was  necessary.  Our 
complaisant  neophytes  immediately  gave  chase  to  all  the  cats 
in  the  neighborhood.'  They  brought  us  three  or  four,  and  ex- 
plained in  what  manner  they  might  be  made  use  of  for  watches. 


lyClOOglC 


THE    FANCIES   OF  FACT.  4(0 

Th' J  jjoiale  1  out  that  the  pupil  of  tbcir  eyts  went  on  constaiitlj 
growing  n  irrower  until  twche  o  clock,  when  thej  becjuie  liKe 
a  fine  line  as  tin n  as  a  bair  duwn  pei-pendicululy  aeio^a  the 
eye,  and  that  jftci  twelve  tiiP  dilatilion  recorameoeed  When 
we  hid  attentnely  examined  the  ejoa  of  all  the  eit"*  at  oui  tii'i- 
piul,  tto  cuiio  to  tbo  concluaion  tbnt  it  wis  past  noon,  ii  ill 
the  ejes  pufcctly  agreed  upon  the  poiot" 


The  follov 


DEVOhSHIEB   BTJPEIISTITION 

)g  case   of  I 


(  superstition,  whieh  ociiimd 
lately  in  one  ot  the  large-t  moikct-toivna  in  thi,  noith  of 
Devon,  13  related  by  an  eye  wiinias  — 

A  young  woman  living  in  the  neighborhood  of  Holaworthy, 
hLiiing  ior  some  time  pist  been  oubiect  to  penodicil  fits  of  ili 
ne's,  endeaiortd  to  effeet  a  cure  by  attending  at  the  aitcinoju 
eervice  it  theptrioh  church,  accoinpinied  by  thirty  young  min, 
her  near  neighbors  Service  o\i,i-,  ahe  sat  m  the  poidi  of  the 
church,  ind  each  of  thi,  young  men,  as  tbey  pissed  out  in  sue 
cession,  dropped  a  penny  intt  her  hp,  but  the  last,  instead  of 
a  penny,  give  her  half  a  crown,  taking  from  hei  the  twenty 
nine  pennies  T-bieh  she  hid  ilreiily  recencd  With  this  halt 
crown  in  hei  hind,  =he  walked  three  times  round  the  ooiu 
mui)inD  table,  and  afteiwirds  hid  it  made  into  a  ung  by  the 
wearing  of  which  she  beiiovea  she  will  recover  hei  health 


A   &KT3LL  THAT  HAD  A  TONGUE 

When  Pi  John  Donne,  the  fimons  poet  and  dmne  ot  the 
reign  cf  Junes  I ,  attained  possession  of  his  fii'st  inm^,  he  to  k 
a  wilk  into  the  churchyard,  where  the  seston  was  at  the  time 
digging  a  grave,  and  in  the  course  of  his  iibor  tlucw  up  a 
skull  This  skull  the  doctor  took  in  his  hands,  and  found  a 
rusty  headless  mil  sticking  in  the  temple  of  it,  wliicb  he  diLW 
out  secretly  and  wmpped  m  the  corner  of  his  hindLerchief 
He  tht-n  demanded  of  the  graie  digger  whether  ho  knew  whose 
skull  that  was  He  said  it  was  a  man  s  who  kept  a  branny 
Bhop, — an  honest,  drunken  tellow,  who  one  night,  having  tiken 


lyGoogle 


476  THE   FANCIES   Off   FACT. 

two  quarts,  wis  f  uod  d  a  J    n  h  s  be  1  nest  morn  ng         H  d 
he  a  wife  '>         Y  s  Wbit  eta  acter  do  s  si  e  bear  ?  V 

^erj  eood  jne  only  tbe  ne  ghb  ra  reflect  on  her  because  she 
married  the  day  after  her  husba  d  was  b  r  ed  Th  a  wa 
enough  for  the  docto  who  under  the  p  otencG  of  v  s  t  n^  ho 
piiishioners  Odl!  d  on  the  woman  he  ashed  he  several  ju 
tion"!,  and  among  others  what  s  okness  he  hu  band  i  ed  of 
She  ^ive  him  the  same  iccouut  he  I  ad  beiore  rece  Ted  wh  ro 
upon  he  suddenly  opened  the  han  !ker  h  ef  and  cr  ed  n  an  au 
thontatiie  vo  &e  Won  a  d  you  know  th  s  na  ''  She  wa. 
struck  with  horror  at  the  unexpected  demand,  instantly  owned 
the  fact,  and  was  brought  to  trial  and  executed.  Truly  might 
one  say,  with  even  more  point  than  Hamlet,  that  the  skull  had 


ROMANTIC   HIQHWAYMAN. 

In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Mead,  preserved  among  that  gentleman's 
papera  in  the  British  Museum,  and  dated  February  3,  1625,  is 
the  following  account  of  a  singular  highwayman  : — ■ 

Mr.  Clavell,  a  gentleman,  a  knight's  eldest  son,  a  great  mail 
and  highway  robber,  was,  together  with  a  soldier,  his  com- 
panion, arraigned  and  condemned  on  Monday  last,  at  the 
King's  Bench  bar  :  he  pleaded  for  himself  that  he  never  had 
struck  or  wounded  any  man,  never  taken  any  thing  from  their 
bodies,  as  rings,  &c.,  never  out  their  girths  or  saddles,  or  done 
them,  when  he  robbed,  any  corporeal  violence.  He  was,  with 
his  companion,  reprieved;  he  Bent  the  following  verses  to  the 
king  for  mercy,  and  hath  obtained  it : — • 

I  that  have  robbed  so  oft  am  now  bid  stand ; 

Peath  and  the  law  assault  me,  and  demand 

M;  life  Bjid  means ;  I  nuver  need  men  so, 

But,  having  ta'en  their  money,  let  them  go. 

Yet,  must  I  die  7  and  is  there  no  relief? 

The  King  of  kings  had  meroy  on  a  thief ! 

So  may  oar  gracious  king,  too,  if  he  please, 

Without  his  oounoil  grant  me  a  release; 

God  is  hia  preoedent,  and  men  shitll  see 

His  mere;  go  beyond  SBTerity. 


lyGoogle 


Sinsular  (ffiiistoms. 


The  ancient  Egyptians,  at  their  grand  festivals  and  parties 
of  pleasure,  always  had  a  cofSn  placed  on  the  table  at  meala, 
containing  a  mummy,  or  a  skeleton  of  painted  wood,  which,  Ile- 
rodotus  tells  us,  was  presented  to  each  of  the  guests  with  this 
admonition ; — ■"  Look  upon  this,  and  enjoy  yourself  j  for  such 
will  jou  become  when  divested  of  your  mortal  garb."  This 
custom  is  frequently  alluded  to  by  Horace  and  Catullus ;  and 
Petronius  tells  ua  that  at  the  celebrated  banquet  of  Trimalcion 
a  silver  skeleton  was  placed  on  the  table  to  awaken  in  the 
minds  of  the  guests  the  remembrance  of  death  and  of  de- 


BBAOTIFUL   SUPERSTITION. 

Among  the  superstitions  of  the  Seueoa  Indians  was  one  re- 
markable for  its  singular  beauty.  When  a  maiden  died,  they 
imprisoned  a  young  bird  until  it  first  began  to  try  its  powers 
of  song,  and  then,  loading  it  with  messages  and  careaaes,  they 
loosed  its  bonds  over  her  grave,  in  the  belief  that  it  would  not 
fold  its  wing  nor  close  its  ejea  until  it  had  flown  to  the  spirit- 
land  and  delivered  its  precious  burden  of  affection  to  the  loved 
'  and  lost. 

STRANGE  I-ONDNESB  FOB  BSAIJTY. 

In  Carazan,  a  province  to  the  northeast  of  Tartary^  the  in- 
habitants have  a  castom,  says  Dr.  Heylin,  when  a  stranger  of 
handsome  shape  and  flue  features  comes  into  their  houses,  of 
killing  him  in  the  nighfj — not  out  of  desire  of  spoil,  or  to  eat 
his  body,  but  that  the  sou!  of  such  a  comely  parson  might  re- 
main among  them. 


lyGoogle 


478  SINGULAR   CUSTOMS. 

TUB   FOUNDATIONS   OP  DRUIDICAL  TEMPLES. 

There  is  a  curious  tradition  both  of  St.  Patriuk  in  Ireland, 
gnd  of  St.  Columba  in  lona,  that  nhen  thej  altempted  to  found 
churches  they  were  impeded  by  an  evil  spirit,  who  threw  down 
the  walls  as  fast  as  they  were  built,  until  a  human  victim  was 
Bacriflced  and  buried  under  the  foundation,  whieh  being  done, 
they  stood  firm. 

It  is  to  be  feared  that  there  is  too  much  truth  in  this  slory. 
Not,  of  coursfl,  that  sueh  a  thing  was  done  by  either  u,  Christian 
Patrick  or  Columba,  but  by  tlie  Druids,  from  whom  the  story 
was  fathered  upon  the  former.  Under  each  of  the  twelve  pillars 
of  one  of  the  Druidicul  circular  temples  in  lona  a  human  body 
was  found  to  have  been  buried. 

ABYSSINIAN  BEE        E    K 
Mr.  Bruce,  the   Abyssinian  li        h       f    q         ly   b     n 

ridiculed  for  asserting  that  i  A 

slices  from  (he  backs  of  their        1    wl  1     I  d    h  u  ! 

thcin  back  to  pasture ;  but  his  b        b    n       fi       d 

by  more  recent  travellers.     MSI      y     h  Id      b  1 

ing  to  the  party  to  whieh  he  was  attached  took  one  ot  the  cows 
they  were  driving  before  them,  cut  off  two  pieces  of  flesh  from 
the  glutaei  muscles  of  the  buttock,  near  the  tail,  and  then  sewed 
up  the  wound,  plastering  it  over  with  manure,  after  which  the 
party  proceeded  to  cook  the  steaks. 

OSTIAK  REGARD        R  BE    R 

Tooke,  in  his  work  on  Eus       t  II    u     f  a    t  u  t  a 

that  prevails  among  the  OstiaL   —    P         h  PI      0 

tiaks,  says  be,  believe  that  hea  1  J    f       d    th     h  pp 

at  least  equal  to  that  which  thy      ptfthml         T\h 
ever  they  kill  one  of  these  an       I      h      f        fl   y       s; 
over  him,  in  which  they  ask  I      p    d  d  h  p  h      L. 

to  which  they  show  many  civil  d  j  y  m     j  fi  pi 

ments,  in  order  to  induce  him  n  1 1    w      L  1  p  n 

them  in  the  abode  of  spirits. 


lyClOOglC 


SINGULAR   CUSTOMS. 


MAKING   NOSES, 


At  Kat  Kanpra,  a  place  visited  by  the  traveller  Vigne,  at 
the  base  of  the  Himalaya,  there  are  native  surgeons,  celebniteJ 
for  putliog  OD  new  noses.  The  maimecl  come  a  great  distance 
for  repairs.  When  it  is  recollected  that  the  rajahs  cut  off  ears 
and  noses  without  stint,  it  may  be  readily  supposed  that  these 
surgeons  have  plenty  of  patients.  The  hope  of  a  restoration  of 
the  nasal  organ  brings  them  from  remote  distances.  To  all  in- 
tents and  purposes,  it  is  done  like  the  Taliacotian  opemtiun  in 
our  hospitals, — by  taking  a  fiap  of  integument  from  ihe  fore- 
bead.  With  very  simple  instruments,  and  a  little  cotton  wool 
besmeared  with  pitch,  to  keep  the  parts  together,  the  success  is 
sufficient  to  eslend  the  reputatioc  of  the  rude  operators. 


LrON-CATCHINa  IN   SOUTH  AFRICA. 

Mr.  Lcmua,  who  formerly  resided  at  Motiio,  and  is  familiar 
with  the  Kallibari  country,  assures  us  that  the  remarkable  ac- 
counfs  sonietimea  circulated  as  to  (ho  people  of  that  part  of 
Africa  catching  lions  by  the  tail — of  which,  one  would  naturally 
be  incredulous — -were  perfectly  true.  Lions  would  someiimes  be- 
come esfremelj  dangerous  to  the  inhabitants.  Having  become 
accustomed  to  human  flesh,  they  would  not  willinjrlj  eat  any 
thing  else.  When  a  neighborhood  became  infested,  the  men 
would  determine  on  the  measures  to  be  adopted  to  rid  them- 
selves of  the  nuisance ;  then,  forming  themselves  into  a  band, 
they  would  proceed  in  search  of  their  royal  foe,  and  beard  the 
lion  in  his  lair.  Standing  close  by  one  another,  the  lion  would 
make  his  spring  on  some  one  of  the  party, — every  man,  of 
course,  hoping  he  might  escape  the  attack,^ — when  instantly 
others  would  dash  forward  and  seize  his  tail,  lifting  it  up  close 
to  the  body  with  all  their  might;  thus  not  only  astonishing  the 
animal,  and  absolutely  taking  him  oiF  his  guard,  but  rendering 
his  efforts  powerless  for  the  moment;  while  others  closed  in 
with  their  spears,  and  at  once  stabbed  the  monster  through  and 
through. 


lyGoogle 


480  SlNGUI.Aa   CUSTOMS. 

lllCin  LIIE  IN  THE   rlrlEENTn  CENTUEY. 

We  gain  the  followi  li     ise  of  the  mannei-  of  the  upppr 

cliisses  in  England,  fo  b      d     d  j                  f                  J           1 

of  Elizabeth  Woodvill  b    q        ly  L  dy  G    y        d  fi    lly 

Queen  of  Edward  IV  R      1  y       i              m        b           k 

with  a  most  refreshin  1  y          h                        f  1  k 

and  brewmg,  pig-tend  puljfed            dpj        ^    S 

Monday  woi^mg, — Ro! 
cons,  Baohel,  the  dairy 
net  the  night  before,  mad  an 

tjiing  from  the  apotiicoarj 

6  o'eioeS.— The  buttock  of  beef  too  mooh  boiled,  and  baer  a  little  stale ; 
(ruera.  to  talk  to  the  oo ok  abuut  the  first  fault,  and  to  mend  the  other  myself 
by  tapping  a  fresh  barrel  immediatsly.) 

r  o'oloci.— Went  to  walk  with  the  Iiidy  my  mother  in  the  oonrt-yard ;  fed 
twenty-flye  men  and  women ;  ohld  Koger  seTorely  for  ejproaaing  Bomo  ill 

8  o'eJoci.^Went  into  the  paddook  behind  the  house  with  my  maid  Doro- 
thy ;  oanght  Thump,  the  little  pony,  myself;  rode  a  matter  of  ton  miles 
withoBt  saddle  or  bridle. 

10  o'rJooi.— Went  to  dinner.  John  Grey,  a  moat  oomely  yonth ;  but  what 
is  that  to  me?  a  virtuoua  maid  should  be  entirely  under  the  direotion  of  her 
parents.  John  ate  but  little,  and  stole  a  e^eat  many  tender  glanoea  at  me. 
Said  women  oonld  noTer  be  hnndaome  in  hia  eyes  who  were  not  good-tem- 
[lered.  I  hope  my  temper  is  not  intolerable:  nobody  finds  fault  with  it  but 
Roser,  and  ho  is  the  moat  disorderly  youth  in  onr  honse.  John  Gray  likes 
white  tooth ;  my  teeth  are  a  pretty  good  color.  I  think  my  hair  is  as  black 
as  jot,— though  I  say  it;  and  John  Sroy,  if  I  mistake  not,  is  of  the 'samo 
opinion. 

11  o'eJoei.— Rose  from  the  table ;  the  company  all  deairons  of  walkmg  ul 
the  field.  John  Grey  lifted  me  over  aTory  stile,  and  twice  squccaod  my 
hand  with  much  vehemenee.  I  cannot  say  I  should  have  much  objection, 
for  he  plays  at  prison-bar  as  well  ae  any  of  the  country  gentlemen,  is  re- 
markably dutifhl  to  bis  parents,  my  lord  and  lady,  and  never  miaaas  church 

3  o'c iooS.— Poor  Farmer  Robinson's  house  burned  down  by  accidental 
fire.  John  firoy  proposed  a  snbacription  among  tho  company  for  the  relief 
of  the  farmer,  and  gare  no  less  than  fonr  pounda  with  this  benevolent 
intent.     (Mem.  netor  saw  him  lock  so  oomely  as  at  this  moment.) 

i  o'cioejt.— Went  to  prayers. 

6  a'doek.—'FBi  hogs  and  poultry. 


lyGoogle 


SIKGULAB    CUSTOMS. 


481 


HAIK   IN    SEALS. 

Stillingfleet,  referring  to  a  MS.  author  who  wrote  a  chronicle 
of  St.  Augustine,  says : — 

He  observes  one  particular  custom  of  the  Normans,  that  the)/ 
toere  loont  to  put  some  of  the  hair  of  their  heads  or  beards 
into  the  wax  of  their  seals :  I  suppose  rather  to  be  kept  as 
momiments,  than  as  adding  any  strength  or  weight  to  their 
ehartera.  So  he  observes  that  some  of  the  hair  of  William, 
Earl  of  Warren,  was  in  his  time  kept  in  the  Priory  of  Lewis. 

SCORNING  THE   CHURCH. 

In  North  Durham,  it  is  cnstomarj,  in  case  that  the  banns 
of  marriage  are  thrice  published,  and  the  marriage  does  not 
take  place,  for  the  refusing  party,  whether  male  or  female,  to 
pay  forty  shillings  to  the  vicar  as  a  penalty  for  scorning  the 

MATBIMONIAL  ADVKRTISEMENT. 
The  following  strange  advertisement  from  an  old  newspaper- 
exhibits  one  of  the  customs  of  rural  hfe  in  England  more  than, 
a  century  ago  : — 


may  happen- 


e  Whitau 
^otliell  to  dine. 


ir  that 


a  hen  t. 


c.  Reed  gives  ft  turkey  to  be  roaBted ;  William  E 
coasted ;  Edward  Clement  gives  a  fat  lamb  to  be  loasted';  JoBeph  Gibson 
gives  a  fat  pig  to  be  roasted ;  William  Hughes  gives  a  fat  calf  to  ha  roasted. 
And  in  order  that  all  this  roast  may  ba  well  baiated— do  yon  Bee?— Mary, 
Pearson,  Betty  Hughes,  Mary  Bushby,  Molly  Fisher,  Sarah  Brlsooe,  and 
Betty  Poithouat,  give,  eaoh  of  them,  a  pound  of  butter.  The  advertiser  will 
provide  every  thing  eke  suitable  for  bo  festive  an  ooeasion :  and  he  hprchy 
gives  notice  to  all  yonng  women  desirous  of  changing  their  condition,  that 
he  is  at  present  disengaged,  and  he  advises  them  to  oonsider  that  although 
there  may  be  Inck  in  leisure,  yet,  In  this  oase,  dSslays  are  dangerous ;  for 
with  him,  he  is  determined  that  It  shall  be— first  oome,  first  served. 


lyGoogle 


TITLES   FOK  THE   LIBRAEY   DOOB,  CHATSWORTH. 

The  Duke  of  Devonsliire  found  it  necessary  to  construct  a 
door  of  sham  books  for  an  entrance  to  the  library  of  Chats- 
worth.  He  was  tired  of  the  haoknejcd  Plain  Dealings,  Essays 
on  Wood,  Perpetual  Motion,  etc.,  on  such  doors,  and  asked 
Thomas  Hood  to  give  him  some  new  titles.  The  following  are 
selections  from  hia  amusing  list : — 

MeAdinn'3  Views  in  Rhodos.  Curaory  Eamarka  on  Swearing. 

Pygmalion.     By  Lord  Eaoon.  Slielley's  Conoliologiae. 

Dante's  InCamo  ;  or,  Descriptions  of    On  Sore  Throat  aad  the  Migrationof 


Van  Demon's  Land. 

the  Sivallow.  By  Abemeihy. 

Tadpoles;  or,  Tales  out  of  my  Own 

The  Soottiah  Bocoaeoio.  By  D,  Oa- 

H^-ad. 

Desisna   for  Prieiea.     By  Sit  John 

Chronological  Aooonnt  of  the  Data 

Franklin. 

Percy  Vera.     In  40  vols.           [Tree, 

Keoolleetions  of  Bannister.  By  Lotd 

Stair. 

Cook's  Specimens  of  the  Sandwich 

Yo  DeviU  on  Two-Stys  (Blaci  Let- 

Peel  on  Beli'a  System.           [Tongna. 

Maltkus'  Attaok  of  Infantry,      [ler]. 

Lamb's  Kcoolleotiona  of  Siiett. 

The  Life  of  Zimmorman.    By  Him- 

Blaine  on  Equestrian  Burglary;  ot 

Boyle  on  Bleam.                            [self. 
Book-Kwping  by  Singie  Entry. 

The  Breaking-in  ofliorses. 

The  Rape  of  the  Lock,  with   Bra- 

Rales  for   Punotnation.    By  a  tho- 

mah's Notes. 

rough-bred  Pointer. 

Koscluako  on  the  Right  of  the  Poles 

On  tlie  Site  of  Tnlly's  Offices. 

to  stick  up  for  themselves. 

Cornaro  on  Longevity  and  tho  Con- 

Haugbty-oultnral  Remarks  on  Lon- 

THE   JESTS   OF   HIEROCLES. 

A  TODNG  man,  meeting  an  acquaintance,  said,  "  I  heard  that 
you  were  dead."  "  But,"  sajs  the  other,  "you  see  me  alive." 
"I  do  not  know  how  that  may  bo,"  replied  he:  "you  are  a.  no- 
torious liar ;   hut  my  informant  was  a  person  of  credit." 

A  man  wrote  to  a  friend  in  Greece,  begging  him  to  purchase 
books.     From  uegligence  or  avarice,  he  neglected  to  execute 


lyClOOglC 


483 

tlie  commiasiou ;  but,  fearing  that  his  oorreapon Jent  miglit  be 
offeoded,  he  exclaimed,  when  oest  they  met,  "  My  dtar  friend, 
I  never  got  the  letter  jou  wrote  to  me  ahout  the  books," 

An  irritable  man  went  to  visit  a  sioli  friend,  and  aslied  hini 
ooflcerning  his  health.  The  patient  was  so  ill  that  he  could  cot 
reply;  whereupon  the  other,  in  a  rage,  said,  "I  hope  that  I 
may  soon  fall  sick,  and  then  I  will  not  answer  you  when  you 

A  speculative  gentleman,  wishing  to  toaeh  his  horse  to  Uve 
without  food,  starved  him  to  death.  "  I  suffered  a  great  loss," 
said  he,  "  for  just  aa  he  learned  to  live  without  eating,  he 
died." 

A  robust  countryman,  meeting  a  physician,  ran  to  hide  behind 
a  wall ;  being  asked  the  cause,  he  replied,  "  It  is  ao  long  ainee 
I  have  been  sick,  that  I  am  ashamed  to  look  a  physician  in  the 

A  ourioua  inquirer,  desirous  to  know  how  he  looked  when 
asleep,  sat  with  closed  eyes  before  a  mirror. 

A  man,  hearing  that  a  raven  would  live  two  hundred  years, 
bought  one  to  try. 

Ocie  of  twin  brothers  died :  a  fellow,  meeting  the  survivor, 
asked,  "  Which  is  it  that's  dead,  you  or  your  brother '!" 

A  man  who  had  to  cross  a  river  entered  a  boat  on  horse- 
back :  beiog  asked  why,  he  replied,  "  I  muat  ride,  because  I 
am  in  a  hurry." 

A  foolish  fellow,  having  a  house  to  sell,  took  a  brick  from  the 
wall  to  exhibit  as  a  sample. 

A  man,  meeting  a  friend,  said,  "  I  apoke  to  you  last  night  in 
a  dream."     "Pardon  me,"  replied  the  other;  "  I  did  not  hear 

A  man  that  had  nearly  been  drowned  while  bathing,  declared 
that  he  would  never  enter  the  water  again  till  he  bad  learned 
to  swim. 

A  atudent  in  want  of  money  sold  his  books,  and  wrote 
home,  "Father,  rejoice;  for  I  now  derive  my  support  from 
literature." 


lyGoogle 


During  a  sEorm,  tlie  passengers  on  board  a  vessel  that  ap- 
peared ill  danger  seized  different  implements  to  aid  them  in 
swimming;  and  one  of  the  number  selected  for  this  purpose  the 

A  wittol,  a  barber,  and  a  bald-headed  man  travelled  together. 
Losing  their  way,  they  wera  forced  to  sleep  in  the  open  air; 
and,  to  avert  danger,  it  was  agreed  to  keep  watch  by  turns.  The 
lot  fell  first  on  the  barber,  who,  for  amusement,  shaved  the 
fool's  head  while  he  slept,  he  thea  wolie  him,  and  the  fool, 
raising  his  hand  to  scratoh  his  bead,  exclaimed,  "Here's  a 
pretty  mistake '    Eased,  you  have  waked  the  bald-headed  man 

A  gentleman  bad  a  c^sk  of  fine  wine,  from  which  his  servant 
stole  a  large  quintity  When  the  master  perceived  the  defi- 
ciency, he  diligeotly  inspected  the  top  of  the  cask,  but  could 
find  no  traces  of  an  opening.  "Look  if  there  be  not  a  hole  in 
the  bottom,"  said  a  bystander.  "Blockhead,"  he  replied,  "do 
you  not  see  that  the  deficiency  is  at  the  top,  and  not  at  the 
bottom.  ?" 


The  London  member  of  the  house  of  Rothschild  once  wrote 
to  his  Paris  correspondent  to  aceertain  if  any  alteration  had 
occurred  in  the  price  of  certain  stooks.  The  inquiry  was  only 
,  .in,,!"  ^ 

The  reply  was  equally  brief: — 

o 

Mr.  MoNair,  a  man  of  few  w'^irds,  wrote  to  his  nephew  at 
Pittsburg  the  following  laconic  letter  :— 
Deae  Nbpiikw, 

? 
To  which  the  nephew  replied,  by  return  of  mail, — 
Peak  Uncle, 

The  long  of  this  short  was,  that  the  uncle   wrote  to  his 


lyGoogle 


FACET  I^.  485 

nepLow,  See  my  coal  on,  wLioh  a  se-mi-col-on  expressed  ;  and 
the  youngster  informed  tis  tinole  tbat  the  coal  was  shipped,  by 
simply  saying,  Col-on. 

When  Lord  Buckley  married  a  rich  and  beautiful  lady,  whose 
hand  had  been  solicited  at  the  same  time  by  Lord  Powis,  in  the 
height  of  his  felicity  he  wrote  thus  to  the  Duke  of  Dorset : — 

Dear  Dorset : — I  am  the  happiest  dog  alive  1      Buckley. 

ANSWER  : 

Dear  Buckley : — Every  dog  has  his  day.  Dorset. 

Louis  XIV.,  who  loved  a  concise  style,  one  day  met  a  priest 
on  the  road,  whom  he  asked,  hastily, — 

"Whence  came  you — where  are  you  going — what  do  you 
want  ?" 

The  priest  instantly  replied,— 

"  From  Bruges — to  Paris — -a, 

"  Yoii  shall  have  it,"  replied  the  king. 

A  lady 'having  occasion  to  call  upon  Abernethy,  the  great 
surgeon,  and  knowing  his  repugnance  to  any  thing  like  verbo- 
sity, forbore  speaking  eseept  simply  in  reply  to  his  laconic  in- 
quiries. The  consultation,  during  three  visits,  was  conducted 
in  the  following  manner : — 

First  Day. — (Lady  enters  and  holds  outher  finger.)  Aher- 
nethy. — "Cut?"  Lady. — "Bite."  A. — "Dog?"  i.— 
"  Parrot."      A. — "  Go  home  and  poultice  it." 

Second  Day. — (Finger  held  out  again.)  A. — "Better?" 
Jj, — "Worse."     A. —  "Go  home  and  poultice  it  again." 

Third  Ua?/.— (Finger  held  out  as  before.)  A.—"  Better  f" 
i. — "Well."  A. — "You're  the  most  sensible  woman  I  ever 
met  with.     Good-bye.     Get  out." 

Since  Csesar's  famous  "  vent,  vidi,  vici,"  (I  came,  I  saw,  I 
conquered,)  many  military  commanders  have  rendered  their 
despatch^  memoi'able  for  pith  and  conciseness;  hut  Sir  Sid- 
ney Smith  bears  the  palm  for  both  wit  and  brevity  in  his  an- 
nouncement of  the  capture  of  Scinde: — ^'Peccavi"  (I  have 
sinned).  Gen.  Havelook's  "We  are  in  Lucknow"  his  ah'eady 
become  a  matter  of  history. 


lyGoogle 


The  following  jeu  d'espril,  written  in  1793,  was  occasioned 
by.  the  circuniatance  of  Lord  Howe  returniog  from  his  pursuit 
of  the  Freneb  fleet,  after  an  absence  of  six  weeks,  during  whiob 
he  bad  only  seen  the  enemy,  without  having  been  able  to  over- 
take and  bring  them  to  action  : — - 

Whan  Casus  triuiDphed  o'er  hia  Gallic  foes, 

Three  wotda  ooneiae  tis  gallant  aels  diacloso ; 

Bat  Howe,  mora  brief,  comprises  his  La  one. 

And  vidi  tells  na  all  thai  he  haa  done. 

If  brevity  is  the  soul  of  wit,  Talleyrand  was  the  greatest  of 
wits.  A  single  word  was  often  sufficient  for  his  keenest  retort. 
When  a  hypochondriac,  who  had  notoriously  led  a  profligate  life, 
couipkined  to  the  diplomatist  that  he  was  enduring  the  tor- 
ments of  bell, — "Je  sens  les  tourmens  de  I'enfer," — the  answer 
was,  "Deja  f  (Alreidy  '0  To  ^  hdy  who  bid  !o«t  her  bus 
band  Talleyrand  oace  ad  lie  sed  a  letter  of  c  ndoknoe  m  two 
words:— "0,  Madame  I  In  less  than  a  yeir  the  hdy  hid  mai 
ried  again;  and  then  bis  letlpr  t  conf,iatulation  was  Ah 
Madame  !"  Could  any  thing  be  more  wittily  significant  than 
the  "  0"  and  the   '  Ah     of  tbi'i    eotentious  correspouderoe^ 

SAME  JOKE   DIVERSiriED. 

Prince  Metternioh  once  requested  the  autograph  of  Jules 
Janin,      Tho  witty  journalist  sent  him  the  following :— - 

"  I  acknowledge  the  receipt  from  M.  de  Metterniuh  of  twenty 
bottles  of  Johannisberg,  for  which  I  return  infinite  thanks. 
"  Jules  Janin." 

The  princo,  in  return,  doubled  the  quantity,  and  sent  bim 
forty  bottles 

This  is  equal  to  the  joke  of  Rocheater  on  the  occasion  of 
Charles  II. 's  crew  of  lakes  wilting  pieces  of  poetry  and  hand- 
ing them  to  Dr^den,  so  that  he  might  decide  which  was  the 
prettiest  poet  Rochester  finished  bis.  piece  in  a  few  minutes; 
and  Dryden  decided  that  it  was  the  beat  On  reading  it,  the 
tines  were  found  to  be  the  following  : — ■ 

"I  promise  to  pay,  to  the  order  of  John  Dryden,  twenty 
pdlinds. — Rochester." 


lyClOOglC 


F  ACETIC,  487 

Th.e  following  Irjperbolieal  compliment  paid  to  Louis  XIV., 
after  his  numerous  victories,  is  almost  literally  translated  from 
the  French  of  a  Gascon  author  of  those  daja,  and,  extraordi- 
nary as  it  may  seem,  ia  said  to  have  obtained  for  the  writer  of 
it  tho  premium  alluded  to  ia  his  gasconade  : — 

To  him  whose  muso  in  lofty  strains 
Sll^lt  blazon  Louis*  famed  oampatgns 

And  erery  great  esploil^ 
Belongs  the  priie  of  twenty  pounfle  — 
Whatl  onlj  twenty       Blood  and  wound" 


For  en 


Tho  Emperor  Nicholas  of  Kuasia  was  thns  sold 
years  ago  DuiiOj,  an  inteiview  which  Maniaeff,  the  come 
diin  dnd  mimii,  had  ■juCLee  !e !  m  obfainmg  with  the  Pnnce 
{\  ilthonslij  high  -steward  J  the  emj  eror  wnlle  1  into  the  ro  m 
I  neipeotedly  yet  with  a  ddii^-a  a»  was  so  n  made  eyident 
Iplliug  the  aetor  that  he  h  d  hearl  uf  hia  t  lents  and  shculd 
lilie  to  see  i  specimen  cf  them  lie  hdde  h  n  mituic  the  Id 
miniatei*  Th  s  feat  was  performed  w  ill  so  much  gusto  that 
the  emperor  Iju^he  1  itnmo  lerately  and  then  to  the  eneat  hor 
roi  of  the  [  001  ictoi  desired  to  have  himself  taken  off 
"  'Tia  physically  impossible,"  pleaded  Martineff  "  Non- 
sense!" said  Nicholas  :  "I  insist  on  ita  being  done  "  Finding 
himself  on  the  horns  of  a  dilemmn,  the  mimie  took  he^lt  of 
giuce,  and,  with  a  promptitude  and  piesetn,e  of  mind  thit  pro- 
bably saved  him,  buttoned  his  ooat  o\er  his  bieast,  espdnJed 
his  chest,  threw  up  his  head,  and,  assuming  the  impenil  poit  to 
the  best  of  his  power,  strode  across  the  room  and  bick,  then, 
stopping  opposite  the  minister,  he  cried,  in  the  esact  tone  and 
manner  of  the  Caar,  "Volkhonsky  1  pay  Monsieur  Martineff 
ooe  thousand  silver  roubles."  The  emperor  for  a  moment  was 
disconcerted;  but,  recovering  himself  ■with  a  faint  smile,  he 
ordered  the  money  to  be  paid. 

»  The  following  inscription  on  a  meddl  of  Louia  XIV.  illustrates  Ihe  sor- 


lyGoogle 


488  P  ACETIC. 

oiii>  mcK. 
When  Nicholas  Eiddle  was  President  of  the  United  States 
Bank,  there  was  an  old  negro  hanger-on  about  the  premises 
named  Hairy.  One  day,  in  a  social  mood,  Biddlo  said  to  the 
daikey,  "  Well  what  is  your  name,  ray  old  iriend?"  "Harry,  sir 
— ole  Harry,  sir,"  said  the  other,  touching  his  shabby  hat. 
"  Old  Harry ! "  said  Biddle,  "  why  that  is  the  name  that  thoy 
give  to  the  deril,  is  it  not?"  "Yes,  sir,"  said  the  colored  gentlc- 
e  Harry  and  sometimes  ole  Nick." 


The  famous  sorites  or  syllogism  of  Themistoolea  was:  That 
lis  Lufaot  son  commanded  the  whole  world,  proved  thus:— 

My  infant  son  nilos  his  mother. 

Hia  mother  rules  mo. 

I  rule  the  AtheoiaaK. 

The  AtheniaDB  rule  the  Steeks. 

The  Greeks  rule  Enropo. 


"  You  may  say  what  you  please,"  said  Bill  Muggins,  speaking 
of  a  deceased  comrade,  "  Jake  was  a  good  boy,  he  was,  and  a  great 
hunter ;  but  he  was  the  meanest  man  that  ever  breathed  in  Old 
Kentuek ;  and  he  played  one  of  the  sharpest  tricks  you  ever 
heard  of,  and  I'll  tell  you  how  it  was.  I  was  out  shootin'  with 
him  one  mornin'.  I  tell  you  the  duck  was  plenty;  and  other 
game  we  despised  as  long  as  wc  could  see  duck.  Jake  he  wns 
too  mean  to  blaze  away  unless  he  could  shoot  two  or  tlirce  at  a 
shot.  He  used  to  blow  me  up  for  wastin'  shot  and  powder  so, 
but  I  didn't  care — I  banged  away.  Well,  somehow  or  othei-, 
while  fussin'  around  the  boat,  my  powder-flask  fell  overboard  in 
about  sixteen  feet  of  wat«r,  which  was  as  clear  as  good  gin,  and 
I  could  see  the  Saak  lay  at  the  bottom.  Jake  was  a  good 
swimmer,  and  a  good  diver,  and  he  said  he'd  fetch  her  up;  so  in 
a  minit  he  was  in,  Well,  I  waited  quite  a  considerable  lame 
for  him  to  come  up ;  then  I  looked  over  the  side  for  him.  Great 
Jerusalem !  there  sot  old  Jake  on  a  pile  of  oyster-shells  ponrin' 
the  powder  out  of  my  flask  into  his'n.     Wasn't  that  mean?" 


lyClOOglC 


GASCONADE   AND   HOAXING. 

A  Gascon,  in  proof  of  his  nobility,  asserted  that  in  hia 
father's  castle  they  used  no  other  firewood  than  the  batons  of 
the  different  marshals  of  France  of  his  family. 

A  Gascon  officer,  on  hearing  of  the  boastful  exploits  of  a  cer- 
tain prince,  who,  among  other  things,  had  killed  sis  men  with 
his  own  hands  in  the  course  of  an  assault  upon  a  city,  said,  dis- 
dainfully, "  Poh,  that's  nothing :  the  mattress  I  sleep  ou  is 
stuffed  with  nothing  but  the  whiskers  of  those  I  have  sent  to 
the  other  world." 

Vernon's  skill  in  the  invention  of  marvellous  stories  has 
never  been  sui-passed,  evoa  by  the  peddlers  of  wooden  nutmegs. 
Talking  one  day  about  the  intense  heat  of  the  sun  in  India,  he 
remarked  that  it  was  a  common  thing  there  for  people  to  bo 
charred  to  powder  by  a  coitp  de  soleil,  and  that  upon  one  occa- 
sion, while  dining  with  a  Hindoo,  one  of  his  host's  wives  waa 
suddenly  reduced  to  ashes,  whereupon  the  Hindoo  rang  the  bell, 
and  said  to  the     tt    d     t  wl  w      d   't     "  B  '       f     h 

glasses,  and  sweep       //  ess 


Another  of  bis 
ing  hyenas  near  C 
abyss  of  many  fa 
find  himself  «nhn 
Presently  he  perc 
having  by  degree 
stood  safe  on  te 
mass  of  bats,  whi 
out  of  the  abyss  a 


1  g     wh 


h  pp 

mb   d 


H 


db 


CHARLES  H    W      AND      H  R 

Soon  after  Mathews  went  from  York  to  the  Hayniarket  Thea- 
tre, he  was  invited  with  other  performers  to  dine  with  Sir. 

A ,  afterwarda   an  eminent  silversmith,  but  who  at  that 

period  followed  the  business  of  a  pawnbroker.     It  bo  happened 

that  A was  calied  out  of  the  parlor,  at  the  back   of  the 

shop,  during  dinner.     Mathews,  with  wonderful  celerity,  alter 


lyClOOglC 


490  rAUETi-ii, 

ing  hia  hair,  couotenanoe,  hat,  &o.,  took  a  large  gravy-spoon 
off  tlio  diJiHer-toble,  ran  instantly  into  the  street,  entered  one 
of  the  little  dark  doors  leading  to  the  pawnbroker's  counter, 
and  actually  pledged  to  the  unconsoious  A his  own  gravy- 
spoon.     Matbewa  contrived  with  equal  rapidity  to  return  and 

seat  himself  (having  left  the  street-door  open)  before  A 

reappeared  at  the  dinner-fable.  As  a  matter  of  course,  this 
was  made  the  subject  of  a  wager.  An  iclairoissemeni  took 
place  before  the  party  broke  up,  to  the  infinite  astonishment 
of  A . 

A  ROYAL   QUANDAEY. 

On  the  first  consignment  of  Seidlitz  Powders  to  the  capital 
of  Delhi,  the  monarch  was  deeply  interested  in  the  accounts  of 
the  refreshing  beverage.  A  bos  was  brought  to  the  king  in 
full  court,  and  the  interpreter  explained  to  his  majesty  how  it 
was  to  be  used.  Into  a  goblet  he  put  the  oontenfs  of  the 
twelve  blue  papers;  and,  having  added  water,  the  king  drank 
it  off.  This  was  the  alkali,  and  the  royal  countenance  exhibited 
no  sign  of  satisfaction.  It  was  then  explained  that  in  the 
combinalioii  of  the  two  powders  lay  the  luxury;  and  the 
twelve  white  powders  were  quickly  dissolved  in  water,  and  as 
eagerly  swallowed  by  his  majesty.  With  a  shriek  that  will 
never  be  forgotten,  the  monarch  rose,  staggered,  esploded,  and, 
in  his  agony,  screamed,  "  Hold  me  down  !"  Then,  rushingfroni 
the  throne,  he  fell  prostrate  on  the  floor.  There  he  lay  during 
the  long-ountinned  effervescence  of  the  compound,  spirting  like 
ten  thousand  pennyworths  of  imperial  pop,  and  believing 
himself  in  the  agonies  of  death,  a  melancholy  and  convincing 
proof  that  kings  arc  mortal. 

EELICa. 

"  What  is  this  ?"  said  a  traveller,  who  entertained  reason- 
able doubts  as  to  the  genuineness  of  certain  so-called  relics  of 
antiquity,  while  visiting  an  old  cathedral  in  the  Netherlands; 
"  what  is  contained  in  this  phial  ?" 


lyClOOglC 


"Sb,"  replied  the  eaoristiin,  "that  phial  contains  one  of  the 
frogs  picked  up  when  Pharaoh  w^  visited  with  the  plague  of 
frogs." 

"I  am  sure,  then,"  rejoined  the  traveller,  "there  could  ha,ve 
been  no  epicures  in  those  days." 

"Why  so  "  said  the  sacristan. 

"  Because  they  would  have  eaten  him,  he  is  so  large  and  fat." 

The  traveller  took  up  another  phial  which  was  near.  "This 
contains?"  said  he, — 

'      "  That  is  a  most  precious  relic  of  the  church,  which  we  value 
very  highly." 

"Tt  looks  veiy  darh." 

"There  is  good  reason  for  that" 

"I  am  somewhat  curious.     Tell  me  why." 

"You  perceive  it  is  very  dark." 

"I  own  it." 

"That,  sir,  is  some  of  the  darkness  which  Moses  spread  over 
the  land  of  Egypt." 

"Indeed I  I  presume,  what  the  moderns  call  darJmiess  inade 
visiMe." 

ASSOCIATION   OF  IDEAS. 

"Mother,"  asked  a  little  girl,  while  listening  to  the  reading 
of  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin,  "why  don't  the  book  never  mention 
Topsy's  last  name?  I  have  tried  to  hear  it  whenever  it  speaks 
of  her,  but  it  has  uot  once  said  it." 

"Why,  she  had  no  other  name,  my  child." 

"  Yes  she  had,  mother,  and  I  know  it." 

"WeU,  what  was  it?" 

"  Why  Turvy — Topsy  Turvy," 

"You  had  better  go  to  hed,  my  dear,"  said  the  mother. 
"  You  are  as  bad  as  your  old  grandmother,  for  she  uan't  say 
pork  without  beans,  for  the  life  of  her." 


Wheuitwasfiiliy  expected  that  Mr.  W ,  whose  unmanage- 

tble  voice  had  obtained  for  him  the  title  of  "Bubble  and 


lyGoogle 


Squeak,"  would  be  elected  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
arid  Mr.  Canniug  was  so  informed,  he  observed  that  if  th« 
report  were  true,  the  members  must  mind  their  P's  and  Q's; 
or  else,  instead  of  saying  "Mr.  Speaker,"  they  would  say  "Mr. 
Squeaker!" 

"JAOK   ROBINSON." 

Lord  Eidon  relates  that  during  the  parliamentary  debates  on 
the  India  Bill,  when  Mr.  Jobn  Robinson  was  Secretary  to  the 
Treasury,  Sheridan,  on  one  evening  when  Fox's  majorities  were 
decreasing,  said,  "  Mr.  Speaker,  this  is  not  at  all  to  be  wondered 
at,  when  a  member  is  employed  to  corrupt  everybody  in  order 
to  obtain  votes."  Upon  this  there  was  a  great  outcry  by 
almost  everybody  in  the  house.  "Who  is  it?"  "Name  him! 
Name  him!"  "Su-,"  said  Sheridan  to  the  Speaker,  "I  shall 
not  name  the  person.  It  is  an  unpleasant  and  inTidious  thing 
to  do  so ;  and,  therefore,  I  shall  not  name  him.  But  don't  suppose, 
Sir,  that  I  abstain  because  there  is  any  difficulty  in  naming 
him;  I  could  do  that.  Sir,  aa  soon  as  you  could  say  'Jack 
Eobinson.' " 

A  RUSaiAN  JESTER  AND    HIS  JOKES. 

Popular  traditions  in  Russia  unite  In  representing  the  jester 
Balaldreff  as  the  constant  attendant  of  Peter  the  Great,  who 
figures  largely  in  all  the  stories  attached  to  the  name  of  his 
buffoon. 

On  one  occasion  Balakireff  begged  permission  of  his  imperial 
master  to  attach  himself  to  the  guard  stationed  at  the  pala<ie, 
and  Peter,  for  the  sake  of  the  joke,  consented — warning  him  at 
the  same  time  that  any  officer  of  the  guard  who  happened  to 
lose  his  sword,  or  to  be  absent  from  his  post  when  summoned, 
was  punished  with  death.  The  newly-made'  officer  promised  to 
do  his  best;  but  the  temptation  of  some  good  wine  sent  to  his 
quarters  that  evening  by  the  Czar,  "  to  moisten  his  commission," 
proved  too  strong  for  him ;  and  be  partook  so  freely  as  to 
become  completely  "screwed."     While  he  was  sleeping  off  his 


lyClOOglC 


FACETI^.  49^ 

debauch,  Peter  stole  softly  into  the  room,  and  carried  off  hia 
sword.  Balakireff  missing  it  on  awakening,  and  frightened 
out  of  his  wits  at  the  probable  conseciuencea,  could  devise  no 
better  remedy  than  to  replace  the  weapon  with  hia  own  profes- 
sional sword  of  lath,— the  hilt  and  trapping  of  which  were 
exactly  similar  to  those  of  the  guardsmen.  Thus  equipped,  he 
appeared  on  parade  the  next  morning,  confident  in  the  assurance 
of  remaining  undetected,  if  not  forced  to  draw  hia  weapon. 
But  Peter,  who  had  doubtless  foreseen  this  contingency, 
instantly  began  storming  at  one  of  the  men  for  his  untidy 
appearance,  and  at  length  feced  round  upon  Balakiroff  with  the 
stern  order,  "Captain  Balakireff,  draw  your  sword  and  cut  that 
sloven  down!" 

The  poor  jester,  thus  brought  feirly  to  bay,  laid  his  hand  on 
his  hilt  as  if  to  obey,  but  at  the  saino  time  exclaimed  fervently, 
"  Merciful  Heaven !  let  my  sword  be  turned  into  wood !" 

And  drawing  the  weapon,  he  exhibited  in  very  deed  a  harm- 
less lath.  Even  the  presence  of  the  Emperor  was  powerless  to 
check  the  roar  of  laughter  whicli  followed,  and  Balakireff  was 
allowed  to  escape. 

The  jester's  jngennity  occasionally  served  him  in  extricating 
others  from  trouble  as  well  as  himself  A  cousin  of  his,  having 
fellen  under  the  displeasure  of  the  Czar,  was  about  to  be  exe- 
cuted; and  Balakireff  presented  himself  at  Court  to  petition 
for  a  reprieve.  Peter,  seeing  him  enter,  and  at  once  diviniEg 
his  errand,  shouted  to  him;  "It's  no  use  your  coming  here;  I 
swear  that  I  will  not  grant  what  you  are  going  to  ask !" 

Quick  as  thought,  Balakireff  dropped  on  his  knees,  and  ex- 
claimed, "  Peter  Alexejevitch,  I  beseech  you  put  that  scamp  of 
a  cousin  of  mine  to  death!" 

Peter,  thus  caught  In  his  own  trap,  had  no  choice  but  to 
laugh,  and  send  a  pardon  to  the  offender. 

During  one  of  the  Czar's  Livonian  campa^ns,  a  tbiek  fog 
greatly  obstructed  the  movementa  of  the  army.  At  length  a 
pale  watery  gleam  began  to  show  itself  through  the  mist,  and 


lyGoogle 


two  of  the  Kussian  officers  fell  to  disputing  whether  this  were 
the  sun  or  not.  Balakircff,  happening  to  pass  hy  at  that 
moment,  they  appealed  to  him  to  decide.  "  Is  tliat  light  yonder 
the  sua,  brother?" 

"IIow  should  I  know,"  answered  the  jester;  "I've  never 
heen  here  before 

At  the  end  of  the  same  campa  gn  seven!  of  the  officers 
were  reljtiD^,  th  ir  exploits  wt  i  Bahk  efl  stepped  in  among 
them  I  ve  got  a  story  to  tell  too  cried  he  hoastfuUj;  "a 
better  one  than  any  of  yours 

'  Let  us  h  ai  it  then     answere  1  the  officers    and  Balaku-eff 


'  I  never  1  ke  1  tl  l  way  of  fioht  g  jll  in  a  crowd  together, 
wt  ch  they  1  ave  nowadays  t  seems  to  mo  more  manly  for 
each  to  stand  by  himself  and  therefore  I  always  went  out 
alone  Now  it  chanced  that  oi  e  d-»y  while  reconnoitering 
close  to  the  enemy  s  outj  sts  I  suldenly  espied  a  Swedish 
aold  er  ly  ( g  on  the  ground  lust  m  frint  of  me.  There  was 
not  a  n  ment  to  lose  he  m  ght  start  up  aid  give  the  alarm. 
I  dicw  my  wor  I  rush  d  upon  1  m  an  t  at  ne  blow  cut  off 
his  right  foot 

'  You  f  >ol  cned  o  e  of  tl  e  utc  e  \o  i  should  rather 
have  cut  off  h  8  h  al 

'  bo  I  would,  answered  Balaknefl,  with  a  grin,  "  but  some- 
body else  had  done  that  already!" 

At  times  Balakireff  pushed  his  waggeries  too  far,  and  gave 
serious  offense  to  his  formidable  patron.  On  one'  of  thoso 
occasions  the  enraged  Emperor  summarily  banished  bun  from 
the  Court,  bidding  him  "never  appear  on  Bussian  soil  again," 
The  jester  disappeared  accordingly ;  but  a  week  had  hardly 
elapsed  when  Peter,  standing  at  his  window,  espied  his  dis- 
graced favorite  coolly  drivii:^  a  cart  past  the  very  gates  of  the 
palace.  Foreseeing  soiue  new  jest,  he  hastened  down,  and 
asked  with  pretended  roughness,  "  How  dare  you  dis'obey  me, 
when  I  forbade  you  to  show  yourself  on  Eussian  ground  V 


lyGoogle 


THE   FLASUES   OP   KEPAltTEE.  495 

"1  haven't  disobeyed  you,"  answered  Bakkireff,  coolly; 
"  I'm  not  on  Russian  ground  now  !" 

"  Not  Oil  Russian  ground  ?" 

"  No ;  this  cart-load  of  earth  that  I'm  sitting  on  is  Swedish 
soil.     I  dug  it  up  in.  Finland  only  the  other  day !" 

Peter,  who  had  doubtless  begun  already  to  regret  the  loss  of 
his  jester,  laughed  at  the  evasion,  and  restored  him  to  favor. 
Some  Russian  writers  embellished  this  story  (a  Gennan  TCrsiou 
of  which  figures  in  the  adventures  of  Tyll  Eulenspiegel)  with 
the  addition  that  Peter,  on  hearing  the  escuse,  answered,  "If 
Finland  be  Swedish  soil  now,  it  shall  be  Russian  before  long" — 
a  tiireat  which  he  was  not  slow  to  fulfill. 


CtlRIlAN,  being  angry  in  a  debate  one  day,  put  his  hand  on 
his  heart,  saying;  "I  am  tho  trusty  guardian  of  my  own  honor." 
"Then,"  replied  Sir  Boyle  Roche,  "I  congratulate  my  honor- 
able friend  on  the  snug  sinecure  to  which  he  has  appointed 
himself." 

On  one  occasion  as  tho  Rev.  Blatthow  Wilkes,  a  celebrated 
London  preacher,  was  on  his  way  to  a  meeting  of  ministers,  he 
got  caught  in  a  shower  m  the  plaue  called  Billingsgate,  where 
there  were  a  lai^e  number  of  women  dealing  in  fish,  who  were 
using  most  profiine  and  vulgar  language.  As  he  stopped  under 
a  shed  ia  the  midst  of  them,  he  felt  called  upon  to  give  at  least 
his  testiinony  against  their  wickedness. 

"Don't  you  think,"  said  he,  speaking  with  the  greatest 
deliberation  and  solemnity,  "  I  shall  appear  as  a  swjft  witness 
against  you  in  the  day  of  judgnienti"' 

"I  presume  BO,"  said  one,  "for  the  biggest  mgue  always  turns 
State's  evidence." 


lyClOOglC 


496  THE   TL ASHES   OP   REPARTEE, 

Matttew,  when  he  got  to  tike  meeting,  related  the  incident. 
"  And  what  did  you  say  in  reply,  Mr.  Wilkes?"  said  one  of 
the  miaistera  present. 

"  What  could  I  'i"  was  the  characteristic  reply. 

The  late  Mr.  Cobden  used  to  tell  the  fifllowmg  anecdote  : — 
"  When  in  America,"  said  he,  "  I  asked  an  enthusiastic 
American  lady  why  her  country  could  not  reat  satisfied  with 
the  immense  unoccupied  territories  it  already  possessed,  but 
must  e¥er  bo  hankering  after  the  lands  of  its  ne^hbors,  when 
her  somewhat  remarkable  reply  was,  "  Oh,  the  propensity  is  a 
very  bad  one,  I  admit;  but  we  came  honestly  by  it,  for  we 
inherited  it  from  England," 

When  Napoleon  was  only  an  ofiicer  of  artillery,  a  Prussian 
officer  said  in  his  presence  with  much  pride,  "  My  countrymen 
fight  only  for  glory,  hut  Frenchmen  for  money."  "  You  are 
right,"  replied  Napoleon ;  "  each  of  them  fight  for  what  they 
are  moat  io  want  of." 

A  gentleman  complimented  a  lady  on  her  improved  appear- 
ance. "You  are  guilty  of  flattery,"  said  the  lady.  "  Not  so," 
replied  he,  "  for  1  vow  you  are  aa  plump  as  a  partridge."  "At 
first,"  responded  she,  "  I  thought  you  guilty  of  flatteiy  only, 
but  you  are  now  actually  making  game  of  me," 

A  pedlar  asked  an  old  lady,  to  whom  he  was  trying  to  sell 
some  articles,  if  she  could  tell  him  of  any  road  that  no  pedlar 
had  ever  travelled.  "  I  know  of  but  one,"  said  she,  "  and  that 
is  the  road  to  Heaven." 

"What  is  that  dog  barking  at?"  asked  a  fop,  whose  boots 
were  more  polished  than  his  ideas.  "  Why,"  said  the  bystander, 
"he  sees  another  puppy  in  your  boots," 

A  Quaker  gentleman,  riding  in  a  carriage  with  a  fashionable 
lady  decked  with  a  profusion  of  jewelry,  heard  her  complaining 
of  the  co!4.     Shivering  in  her  lace  bonnet  and  shawl,  as  light 


lyGoogle 


THE  FLASHES  OF  REPARTEE.  497 

as  a  cobweb,  she  esclajmed  ;  "  What  shall  I  do  to  get  warm  ?" 
"  I  really  don't  know,"  replied  the  Quaker  solemnly,  "  unless 
thee  puts  on  another  breastpin." 

■  I  dined  once  with  CuiTan,  said  one  of  his  Mends,  in  the 
piiblio  room  of  the  chief  Inn  at  Greenwich,  when  he  talked  a 
great  deal,  and,  as  usual,  with  considerable  exaggeration.  Speak- 
it^  of  something  which  he  would  not  do  on  any  inducement, 
he  exclaimed  ;  "I  had  rather  be  hanged  upon  twenty  gibbets." 
"Don't  you  think,  sir,  tliat  one  would  be  enough  for  you?" 
said  a  girl,  a  stranger,  who  was  sitting  at  the  table  nest  to  us. 
You  ought  to  havo  scon  Curran's  fece  just  then. 

A  tourist  being  exceedingly  thirsty,  stopped  at  a  house  by 
the  roadside,  and  asked  for  a  drink  of  mOk.  He  emptied 
several  cups,  and  asked  for  more.  The  woman  of  the  house  at 
length  brought  out  a  large  bowl  filled  with  milk,  and  setting  it 
down  on  the  table,  remarked,  "  A  person  would  think,  sir,  that 
you  had  never  been  weaned." 

Theodore  Hook  was  walking,  in  the  days  of  Warren's  black- 
ing, where  one  of  the  emissaries  of  that  shining  character  had 

written  on  the  wall,  "  Try  Warren's  B ,"  but  had  been. 

■  frightened  by  the  approach  of  the  owner  of  the  property,  and 
had  fled.     "  The  rest  is  lacking,"  said  this  wit. 

The  famous  Rochester  one  day  met  Dr.  Barrow  in  the  Park, 
and  being  determined,  as  he  said,  to  put  down  the  rusty  piece 
of  divinity,  accosted  him  by  taking  off  his  hat,  and  with  a 
profound  bow,  exclaimed:  "Doctor,  I  am  yours  to  my  shoe- 
tie."  The  Doctor,  perceivii^  his  aim,  returned  the  salute^with 
equal  ceremony;  "My  Lord,  I  am  yours  to  the  ground."  His 
lordship  then  made  a  deeper  salam,  and  said:  "Doctor,  I  am 
yours  to  the  centre."  Barrow  replied,  "My  Lord,  I  am  yours 
to  the  antipodes,"  on  which  RoohestCT  made  another  attempt 
by  exclaiming.  "I  am  yours  to  the  low^t  pit."  "There,  my 
Lord,  I  leave  you,"  rephed  Barrow. 


lyGoogle 


498  THE  FLASHEa   OF   EEPAKTEE. 

A  windy  M.  P.,  ia  the  midst  of  a  tedious  speech,  stopped  to 
imbibe  a  glaaa  of  water. 

"I  rise,"  said  Sieridan,  "to  a  point  of  order." 

Everybody  started,  wondering  what  the  point  of  order  was. 

"What  is  itP"  s^d  the  speaker. 

"  I  thinlE,  eir,"  said  Sheridan,  "  it  is  out  of  order  for  a  wind- 
mill to  go  by  water." 

At  Oxibrd,  some  twenty  years  ago,  a  tutor  iu  one  of  the 
colleges  limped  ia  his  walk.  Stopping  one  day  last  summer  at 
a  railroad  station,  ho  was  accosted  by  a  well-known  politician, 
who  recognized  him,  and  asked  him  if  he  was  not  the  chaplain 
at  the  college  at  such  a  time,  naming  the  year.  The  doctor 
replied  that  he  was.  "I  was  there,"  said  the  interrogator,  "and 
I  know  you  by  your  limp."  "Well,"  said  the  doctor,  "it  seems 
that  my  limping  made  a  deeper  impression  on  yon  than  my 
preachmg."  "Ah,  doctor,"  was  the  ready  reply,  "it  is  the 
highest  compliment  we  can  pay  a  minister  to  say  that  he  is 
known  by  his  walk,  rather  than  by  his  conversation.." 

When  Onslow  was  speaker  of  the  British  House  of  Com- 
mons, a  member,  who  was  very  fond  of  hearing  himself  speak — 
though  nobody  would  listen  to  him~on  one  occasion  made  a 
direct  appeal  to  the  chair,  in  consequence  of  the  accustomed 
noise  that  was  going  on:  "Mr.  Speaker,  I  desire  to  know  if  I 
taye  not  a  right  to  be  heard  ?  "  The  speaker-  hoped,  at  first,  to 
escape  the  necessity  of  a  reply,  by  calling  "  Order !  Order ! "  hut 
this  proving,  as  usual,  of  no  avml,  die  honorable  member  in- 
qnired,  in  a  louder  tone  than  before, "  Sir,  have  not  I  a  right  to  be 
heard?"  "Sir,"  replied  Onslow,  "you  have  aright  to  speak." 

Penn,the  founder  of  PenESylvania,  abhorred  smoking.  His 
Quaker  Council  one  day  observing  Mm  approach,  laid  down  thei 
pipes.  "I  am  glad  to  sec,"  said  Penn,  "that  you  a 
of  that  yile  habit."  "Not  at  all,"  said  a  principal  Friend,  ' 
only  lay  down  our  pipes  lest  we  should  offend  aweale  hroth 


lyGoogle 


THE   FLASHES   OF  REPARTEE.  4D9 

A  saloon-keeper  having  started  busineisa  in  a  building  where 
tranks  had  been  made,  asked  a  friend  what  he  had  better  do 
with  the  old  sign,  "  Trunk  Factory."  "  0,"  said  the  friend, 
"just  chai^  the  T  to  D,  and  it  will  suit  you  es;actly." 

Tears  ago,  when  Henry  Wai'd  Beecher's  reputation  was  not 
world-wide,  a  Western  Young  Men's  Chmtian  Association 
tried  to  persuade  the  divine  to  go  out  and  lecture  to  them  with- 
out charge,  saying  it  woiild  inci'ease  hia  fame.  He  telegraphed  in 
reply :  "  I  will  lecture  for  F.  A,  M.  E. — fifty  and  my  expenses." 

Admiral  Keppel  was  sent  to  the  Dey  of  Algiera  to  negotiate 
the  restoration  of  some  English  vessels  which  had  been  captured 
by  Algerine  pirates.  He  advocated  the  cause  entrusted  to  him 
with  a  warmth  and  spirit  which  completely  confounded  the 
Dey's  ideas  of  what  was  due  to  absolute  power,  "I  wonder," 
said  the  offended  dignitary,  "at  the  King  of  England's  insolence 
in  sending  me  such  a  foolish,  beardless  boy." 

"  Had  my  master,"  retorted  Keppel,  "  considered  that  wisdom 
was  to  be  measared  by  the  length  of  the  beard,  he  would  have 
sent  yon  a  he-goat." 

Thackeray  tells  us  of  a  woman  begging  alms  from  him, 
who,  when  she  saw  him  put  his  hand  in  his  pocket,  cried  out: 
"  May  the  blessing  of  God  fiiUow  you  all  your  life !"  But,  when 
he  only  pulled  out  bis  sn«fF-bos,  she  immediately  added :  "  And 
never  overtake  ye." 

Dr,  Keid,  the  celebrated  medical  writer,  was 
lady  of  literary  eminence  to  call  at  her  house, 
recollect  the  addi'css,"  she  said  as  she  quitted  the  room- — "No. 
1  Chesterfield  street."  "Madam,"  said  the  doctor,  "I  am  too 
great  an  admirer  of  politeness  not  to  remember  Chesterfield,  and, 
I  fear,  too  selfish  ever  to  forget  Number  One." 

Two  men  disputing  about  the  pronunciation  of  the  word 
"either" — one  saying  it  was  ee-ther,  the  other  £-fcher— agreed  to 
refer  it  to  the  first  person  they  met,  who  happened  to  bo  an 
Irishman,  who  confounded  both  by  declaring,  "it's  nayther, 
for  it's  ayther." 


b,. 


lyGoogle 


500  I'lIE   FLASHES   OF   REPARTEE, 

A  Parisian  millionaire  once  wrote  to  the  oelebrated  comic  au- 
thor, Scribe  ;^"  Honored  Sir — I  wish  very  muoli  to  ally  my 
name  with  yonra  in  the  creation  of  a  dramatic  work.  Will  you 
be  so  kind  as  to  write  a  comedy  of  which  I  shall  compoae  one  or 
two  lines,  so  that  I  may  be  mentioned  in  the  title;  I  will  bear 
the  entue  pecuniary  expense,  so  that  I  may  divide  the  glory." 
Scnbe,  who  was  vain  even  to  conceit,  replied : — "  Sir — I  regret 
that  I  cannot  comply  with  yom-  modest  request.  It  is  not  in 
accordance  with  my  ideas  of  religion  or  propriety  that  a  horae 
and  an  ass  should  be  yoked  together."  To  which  the  million- 
aue  qmokly  responded: — "8ir-^I  have  received  your  imperti- 
nent letter.     How  dare  you  call  me  a  horse ! " 

Voltaire  was  warmly  panegyrizing  Haller  one  day,  when  a 
person  pr^ent  remarked  that  his  eulogy  was  very  disinterestcf!, 
for  Haller  did  not  speat  well  of  him.  "Ah,  well,  "  said  Vol- 
taire, "perhaps  we  are  both  of  us  mistaken." 

An  Irishman,  abusing  Erin,  declared  that  it  contained  noth- 
ing good  but  the  whiskey.  "Whereupon  a  wag  observed,  "  You 
mean  to  say,  then,  that  with  all  her  faults  you  love  her  stUl." 

Bacon  relates  that  a  fellow  named  Hogg  importuned  Sir 
Nicholas  to  save  his  life  on  account  of  the  kindred  between 
Hog  and  Bacon.  "Aye,"  replied  the  jadge,  "but  yon  and  I 
cannot  be  kindred  except  you  be  hanged,  for  Hog  is  not  Bacon 
until  it  be  well  hanged." 

Lord  Eldon,  struck  by  the  appearance  of  a  beautiful  woman 
palling  Westminster  Hall,  expressed  his  admiration  freely. 
The  lady  overhearing,  returned  the  compliment  by  pronouncing 
him  to  a  friend  near  by  a  most  excellent  judge. 

Thackeray,  while  in  Charleston,  S.  0.,  was  introduced  to  Mrs. 
C,  one  of  the  leaders  of  its  society.  In  his  pert  way  he  said. 
"  I  am  happy  to  meet  you,  madam ;  I  have  heard  that  you  are 
a  fast  woman."  "Oh,  Mr.  Thaokei'ay,"  she  replied  with  a  fas- 
cinating smile,  "we  must  not  believe  all  wc  hear;  I  had  heard, 
sir,  that  yon  were  a  gentleman." 


lyClOOglC 


THE   SEXES,  501 

Mr.  Spurgeon  robuked  neiUiia  of  his  followers  who  reft^d  to 
interfere  in  politica  on  the  grouod  that  they  were  "not  of  this 
world."  This,  he  argued,  was  mere  metaphor.  "You  might  as 
well,"  said  he,  "being  sheep  of  the  Lord,  declme  to  eat  mutton- 
chop  ou  the  plea  that  it  would  he  ci 


A  young  barrister,  intending  to  be  Tery  eloquent,  o 
"such  prinoiples  as  these,  my  Lord,  are  written  in  the  Book  of 
Nature."  "What  page,  sir?"  said  Lord  Chief  Justice  Ellen- 
horough ;  and  the  orator  was  silenced  for  life. 


Sf)c  ^txis. 


Thongh  she  bonds  him,  ahe  obeys  him; 
Though  she  draws  hiio,  yet  she  follnws; 
0eeloEB  eiioh  without  the  othsr.— ffiaiooiio, 

Mrs.  Jameson,  speaking  of  the  mistaken  belief  that  there 
are  essential  masculine  and  feminine  virtues  and  viees,  says  it 
is  not  the  quality  itself,  but  the  modification  of  the  quality, 
which  is  masculine  or  feminine;  and  on  the  manner  or  degree 
in  which  these  are  balanced  or  combined  in  the  individual,  de- 
pends the  perfection  of  that  individual  character.  As  the  in- 
fluences of  reli^on  are  extended  ajid  as  civihzation  advances, 
those  qualities  which  are  now  admired  as  essentially  /entmme 
will  bo  considered  as  essentially  hvman, — such  as  gentleness, 
purity,  the  more  unselfish  and  spiritual  sense  of  duty,  and  the 
dominance  of  the  affections  over  the  passions.  This  is,  perhaps, 
what  Buffon,  speaking  as  a  naturalist,  meant  when  he  said  that 
with  the  pro^^ss  of  humanity  Les  races  se  fiminisent.  The 
axiom  of  the  Greek  philosopher  Antisthenes,  the  disciple  of 
Socrates,  The  vCrPae  of  the  man  amd  the  woman  is  the  same, 


lyClOOglC 


502  ^HE   BEXES. 

shows  a  perception  of  tbia  moral  truth,  a  sort  of  aoticipation  of 
the  Christian  doctrine,  even  ia  the  pagan  times. 

Every  reader  of  Wordsworth  will  recollect  the  poem  entitled 
The  Happy  Warrior.  It  has  been  quoted  as  an  epitotoe  of 
every  manly,  soldierly,  and  elevated  quality.  Those  who  make 
the  experiment  of  merely  substituting  the  word  woman  for  the 
word  WARRIOK,  and  changing  the  feminiac  for  the  maBouline 
pronoun,  will  find  that  it  reads  equally  well,  and  from,  begin- 
ning to  end  is  literally  as  applicable  to  the  one  sex  -as  to  the 
other.     As  thus  : — 

OBARAOTER  OF   THE   HAPPY  WOMAN. 

Who  is  the  toppy  woman  1     Who  ia  iU 

Thai  every  mohiob  bom  ehouM  wish  to  ba  ? 

It  is  the  generous  spirit  who,  when  brought 

Amnngtha  tBEks  of  reel  life,  ha.lh  wrought 

Upon  the  plan  that  pleased  her  cliiLdish  thought; 

Whoee  high  endoBTora  aro  an  inn-ard  light, 

That  maltes  the  path  hcfore  to-  alwajs  bright; 

Who,  with  a  natural  instinot  to  discern 

What  knowledge  can  perform,  is  diligent  to  learn; 

Abides  bf  this  resolve,  and  stops  not  tborB, 

But  makes  her  moral  being  \er  prima  core  \ 

Who,  doomed  to  go  in  oorapany  nith  pain. 

And  fear,  and  sorrow,  miserable  train ! 

In  face  of  these  doth  ezercise  a  power 


m 

ioh 

B  our  human  nature's 

highest  d 

ner 

Co 

ntrols  them  and 

sahdues,  1 

Otlhei 

bad  influe 

oe,  and  th 

By 

obj 

ots,  whieh 

Bight  fore 

the  soul 

oab 

la 

Is  placable, — because  ocoaaions  rise 
So  ot^n  that  demand  suoh  sacrifiae ; 
More  skilful  in  self-knowledge,  even  more  pnrs 

As  mora  exposed  to  euS'ering  and  distress; 

Tis  lihe  whose  law  is  reason;  who' depends 
Upon  that  law  as  on  the  best  of  friends ; 
Whence,  in  a  state  where  men  are  tempted  still 
To  evil  for  a  guard  against  worse  ill, 
And  what  in  quality  or  not  is  best 
Doth  seldom  on  a  right  foundation  rest, 


lyGoogle 


THE   SEXES. 


Who  coBjpreliends  her  truaf,  and  to  the  same 
Keeps  faithful  with  a  eiogtsness  of  aim; 
And  thcrefora  does  not  stoop,  nor  lie  in  nait 
For  wealth,  or  honors,  or  for  worldly  state; 
Whom  thoj  mast  follow;  on  whose  head  must  fall 
Like  Bhowers  of  manna,  if  they  oome  at  all  i 
Whoae  power  shed  round  fier,  in  the  common  strife 
Or  mild  conoerna  of  otdinarj  life, 

But  who,  if  rie  be  called  upon  lo  faoa 

Some  awful  moment  to  whieh  Hearan  has  jomsd 

Qreut  iesues,  good  or  bad  for  human  kind, 


n  jp    I 


d  sees  what  'he  foresaw ; 


Mrs.  Jan    on  adds  th  t    n  all  these  fifty  s  x  1        th    e 
only  oue  1  ne  wh  oh  can     t  be  fe  n  n  aed    n    t    B^^nfi    ae  — 
that  filled  uj  w  th  a  te   sk^    and  wh  c  t    ally    t  yi  an  e 

with  the  il  al  ot  a  happy  ilo    a        It      the  1  rn — 

And  in  himself  possess  his  own  desire. 

No  woman  could  exist  happily  or  virtuously  in  such  ocimplete 
indepeudenue  of  all  external  affections  as  these  words  express. 
"  Her  desire  is  to  her  husband  :"  this  is  the  sort  of  subjcctioQ 
prophesied  for  the  daughters  of  Eve.  A  woman  doomed  to 
exist  without  this  earthly  rest  for  her  affections  does  not  "  in 
herself  possess  her  own  desire;"  she  turna  towards  G-od;  and, 
if  she  does  not  make  her  life  a  life  of  worship,  she  makes  it  a 
life  of  charity,  or  she  dies  a  spiritual  and  a  moral  death.  Is  it 
much  better  with  the  man  who  oonoeatrates  his  aspirations  in 
himself  f 


lyGoogle 


THE   SEXES. 

THE  PEAISE   OF  ■WOMEN. 
■      All  Old  English  Ballad. 
Botb  scies,  give  ear  to  my  fanay, 

While  the  praiac  of  a  woman  I  sing 
Conaned  not  to  Polly  ngr  Nbdoj, 
But  alike  ham  the  baggar  to  liicg- 


He  had  all  thinge  that  were  wanting. 
Which  jield  ns  contentment  in  life; 

Botb  LorsBS  and  tosas  for  hunting, 
Which  manj  love  more  than  a  wife, 

A  garden,  ao  planted  by  nature, 

Ani  yet  the  all-wiso  Creator 

Saw  that  hs  wanted  a  wife. 
Old  Adam  was  east  into  slam  her, 

A  Tib  taken  out  of  his  side; 

He  beheld  hie  most  bcautiral  bride. 
With  transport  ho  gasSd  npon  horr- 

His  happiness  DOW  was  eompleta: 
He  pr^ed  tbe  all-honntiful  Donor, 

Who  thus  had  proiidiid  a  mate. 
Bha  was  not  taken  out  of  his  head. 

To  role  and  triumph  oyer  man; 

To  1m  mled  and  trampled  npon. 
But  she  was  taken  out  of  his  side. 

His  eqnal  companion  to  be; 
And  thns  they  both  ware  united. 

And  man  is  the  Inp  of  tiie  tree. 
Than  let  not  the  fair  be  dospisM 

By  man,  for  she's  part  of  himsslf; 
Since  woman  by  Adam  was  priaSd 

More  than  the  whole  world  fliU  of  weelth. 


lyGoogle 


The* 


J   OP  THE   SEXES. 

1  admirable  partition  of  qualities 


the 


spses,  wliich  tho  great  Author  of  being  has  dlstribufed  to  each 
with  a  wisdom  which  calls  for  our  admiration.  Man  is  strong, 
— woman  is  beautiful.  Man  is  daring  and  confidant, — woman 
is  diffident  and  unassuming.      Man  is  great  in  action, — woman, 


i  abroad, — woman,  at  home.  Man 
n,  (0  persuade  and  please.  Man  has 
a  soft  and  tender  one.  Man  prevents 
it.  Man  has  science, — woman,  taste. 
L,  sensibihly.      Man  is  a  hein;^  of 


suffering.  Man  e 
talks  to  Gonvince,— w 
a  rugged  heart, — wom 
misery, — woman  relie 
Man  has  judgment, — 
justice, — -woman,  of  mercy. 

FEMALE  SOCIETY. 

The  following  remarks  come  with  peculiar  force  from  one  of 
such  quemlons  and  unoonnubiai  habits  as  John  Handolph  : — - 

Tou  know  my  opinion  of  female  society :  without  it  we  should 
degenerate  into  brutes.  This  observation  applies  with  tenfold 
force  to  young  men,  and  those  who  are  in  the  prime  of  man- 
hood. For,  after  a  certain  time  of  life,  the  literary  man  makes 
a  shift  (a  poor  one,  I  grant)  to  do  without  the  society  of  ladies. 
To  a  young  man  nothing  is  so  important  as  a  spirit  of  devotion 
(next  to  his  Creator)  to  some  amiable  woman,  whose  imago 
may  occupy  his  heart  and  guard  it  from  the  pollution  that  be- 
sets it  on  all  sides.  A  man  ought  to  choose  his  wife  as  Mrs 
Primrose  did  her  wedding-gown, — for  qualities  that  will  "wear 
well."  One  thing  at  least  is  tvae,  that,  if  matrimony  has  its 
cares,  celibacy  has  no  pleasures.  A  Newton,  or  a  mere  scholar, 
may  find  enjoyment  in  study;  a  man  of  literary  taste  can  re- 
ceive in  books  a  powerful  auxiliary ;  but  a  man  must  have  a 
bosom  frienS,  and  children  around  him,  to  cherish  and  support 
the  dreariness  of  old  age. 

WIPE — MISTBES  a — laht. 

Who  marries  for  love  takes  a  wife;   who  marries  for  conve- 
nience takes  a  mistress;   who  marries  irom  consideration  takes 
You  are  loved  by  yoar  wife,  regarded  by  your  mis- 
43 


I  lady. 


lyClOOglC 


506  THE    SEXES. 

tress,  tolerated  by  your  lady.  Yoii  have  a  wife  for  yourself,  a 
mistress  for  your  house  and  its  friends,  a  lady  for  the  world. 
Your  wife  will  agree  with  yon,  your  mistrras  will  accommodate 
you,  your  lady  will  manage  you.  Your  wife  will  take  care  of 
your  household,  your  mistress  of  your  house,  your  lady  of  ap- 
pearances. ■  If  you  are  sick,  your  wife  will  nurse  you,  your 
mistress  will  visit  you,  your  lady  will  inquire  after  your  health. 
You  take  a  walk  with  your  wife,  a  ride  with  your  mistress,  and 
join  parties  with  your  lady.  Your  wife  will  share  your  grief, 
your  mistress  your  money,  and  your  lady  your  debts.  If  you 
are  dead,  your  wife  will  slied  tears,  your  mistress  lament,  and 
your  lady  wear  mourning. — From  the  German. 


That  was  a  thrilling  scene  in  the  old  chlyalric  time — the 
wino  circling  around  the  board,  and  the  banquet-hall  ringing 
with  sentiment  and  song — when,  the  lady  of  each  knightly 
heart  having  been  pledged  by  name,  St.  Leon  aiose  in  his 
turn,  and,  lifting  the  sparkling  cup  on  high,  SMd, — 

"I  drink  to  one 


■Whan  lighter  passions  long  have  passed. 

So  holj 'tis,  and  true; 
To  one  whoae  love  hath  longer  dwelt, 
More  deeplj  fixed,  mora  keenly  felt, 

Than  any  pledge  to  jon," 
Eaeh  gnest  upstarfad  at  the  word, 
And  laid  his  hand  upon  his  sword, 

With  fuFy-flaahicigeya; 
And  Stanley  said,  "Wo  orave  ths  name,    . 
Proud  knight,  of  this  most  peerless  dame, 

Whose  love  you  oonnt  so  high." 
St.  Leon  paused,  as  if  lie  would 
Hot  breathe  her  name  in  oareloBB  mood 

Thus  lightly  to  another,— 
Thon  bent  his  noble  head,  as  thongh 
To  give  that  word  the  reverence  due. 

And  gently  said,  "  Mi-  Mothek  !" 


lyGoogle 


THE   SEXES.  507 

LETTER  TO   A   EaiDE. 

Tte  folloTTing  letter  was  written  by  an  old  friend  to  a  joiing 
,  ladj  on  the  eve  of  her  wedding  day  ;— 

I  have  sent  jou  a  few  flowers  to  adorn  the  dying  moments 
of  your  single  life.  They  are  tlie  gentlest  types  of  deiioate 
and  durable  friendship.  They  spring  up  by  our  side  when 
others  have  deserted  it;  and  thej  will  he  found  watching  over 
our  graves  when  those  who  should  cherisli  have  forgotten  us. 
It  seems  that  a  past,  so  calm  and  pure  as  yours,  should  expire 
with  a  kindred  sweetness  about  it, — that  flowers  and  music, 
kind  friends  and  earnest  words,  should  consecrate  the  hour 
when  a  sentiment  is  passing  into  a  sacrament. 

The  three  great  stegea  of  our  being  are  the  birth,  the  bridal, 
and  the  burial.  To  the  first  we  bring  only  weakness — for  tho 
last  wo  have  nothing  but  dust !  But  here  at  the  altar,  when 
life  joins  life,  the  pair  come  throbbing  up  to  the  holy  man, 
whispering  the  deep  promise  that  arms  each  other's  heart,  to 
help  on  in  the  life-struggle  of  care  and  duty.  The  beautiful 
will  be  there,  borrowing  new  beauty  from  the  scene.  The  gay 
and  thoughtless,  with  their  flounces  and  frivolities,  will  look 
solemn  for  once.  Touth  will  come  to  gaze  upon  the  object 
of  its  secret  yearnings;  and  age  will  totter  up  to  Lear  the 
words  repeated  that  to  their  own  lives  had  given  the  charm. 
Some  will  weep  over  it  as  if  it  were  a  tomb,  and  some  laugh 
over  it  as  if  it  were  a  joke;  btit  two  must  stand  by  it,  for  it  is 
fiite,  not  fun,  this  everlasting  locking  of  their  lives. 

And  now,  can  you,  who  have  queened  it  over  so  many  bend- 
ing forms,  can  yJDU  come  down  at  laat  to  the  frugal  diet  of  a 
single  heart?  Hitherto  you  have  been  a  oloek,  giving  your 
time  to  all  the  world.  Now  you  are  a  watch,  buried  in  one 
particular  bosom,  warming  only  his  breast,  marking  only  his 
hours,  and  ticking  only  to  the  beat  of  his  heart — where  time 
and  feeling  shall  be  in  unison,  until  those  lower  ties  are  lost  in 
that  higher  wedlock,  wliere  all  hearts  are  united. 

Hoping  that  calm  aad  sunshine  may  hallow  your  clasped 
bands,  I  sink  silently  into  a  signature.  *  *  * 


lyClOOglC 


MOSLEM   WISDOM. 


Moslm.  asaietiom. 


SHREWD   DECISION    OS   ALI,    OAUPH 

In  the  Preliminarj  Dissertation  to  Dr.  RichardsoD's  Arabic 
Dietiooary  the  following  curious  anecdote  is  recorded  ; — 

Two  Arabians  sat  down  to  dinner :  one  had  fiye  loaves,  the 
other  three.  A  stranger  passing  by  desired  permission  to  eat 
with  them,  which  they  agreed  to.  The  stranger  dined,  laid 
down  eight  pieces  of  money,  and  departed.  The  proprietor  of 
the  five  loaves  took  np  five  pieces  and  left  three  for  the  other, 
who  objected,  and  insisted  on  having  one-half.  The  cause  camo 
before  AJi,  wbo  gave  the  following  judgment ; — "  Lot  the  owner 
of  the  five  loaves  have  seven  pieces  of  money,  and  the  owner  of 
the  three  loaves  one ;  for,  if  wo  divide  the  eight  loaves  by  three, 
they  make  twentj-four  parts  ;  of  which  he  who  laid  down  tlie 
five  loaves  had  fifteen,  while  he  who  laid  down  three  had  only 
nine.  As  all  fared  alike,  and  eight  shares  was  each  man's  pro- 
poj-tion,  the  stranger  ate  seven  parts  of  the  first  man's  property, 
iiud  only  one  belonging  to  the  other.  The  money,  in  justice, 
mtist  bo  divided  accordingly." 

THE  WISDOM   or   ALI. 

The  Prophei  onco,  sitting  in  calm  deliata, 
Said,  "  I  am  Wisdom's  fortreaa ;  hut  the  gate 
Thereof  is  Ali."    Wherefore,  Home  who  hemd, 
With  nnbelisvmg  jealousy  were  Blirred ; 
And,  that  they  might  on  him  confusion  bring, 
Ten  of  the  bpldsBt  joined  to  prove  tie  tWiig. 
"  Let  OS  in  turn  to  Ali  go,"  they  Baid, 
"  And  ftai  if  Wisdom  should  be  sought  instead 
Of  earthly  riches ;  then,  if  he  reply 
To  eiieh  of  oa,  in  thonght,  accorflanUy, 
And  yet  to  none  in  speech  or  phrase  the  same, 


lyGoogle 


MO'SLEM   WISDOM.  503 

"Wisdom  Is  tho  Inhsritance  of  Chose 
Whom  Allah  favors ;  riches,  of  his  foes." 
Unto  the  second  ho  said :— "  Tbyaeif  must  be 
Guard  to  thy  riohes;  but  Wisdom  gnardEtli  thee." 
Unto  the  third>-«Br  Wisdom  weoHh  is  won; 

Unto  the  fourth  ;— "  Thy  goods  the  thiaf  may  tttke ; 
Bnt  into  Wisdom's  house  he  cannot  braai." 
Unto  the  fifth :— t'Thy  goods  deoreaee  tho  more 
Thou  giFoati  but  noe  enlarges  Wisdom's  store." 
Unto  thesixth:— "Wealth  tempts  to  BTil  ways; 
But  the  desire  of  Wisdom  is  God's  praisB." 
Unto  the  BOTonth  i— "  Divide  thy  wealth,  each  part 
BecoTQes  a  pittance.     Sire  with  open  heart 
Thy  wisdom,  and  each  separate  gift  shall  be 
All  that  thon  host,  yot  not  impoverish  thee." 
Unto  the  eighth:— "  Wealth  oflnaot  keep  itself; 
But  Wisaom  ia  the  steward  even  of  pelf," 
Unto  the  ninth :— "  The  oamels  slonly  bring 
Thy  goods;  but  Wisdom  has  the  swallow's  wing." 
And  lastly/  whan  the  tenth  did  question  make, 
Those  wore  the  ready  words  which  All  spake:— 
"Wealth  is  a  darkness  which  the  soul  should  fear; 
But  Wisdom  ia  Che  lamp  that  makes  it  clear." 
Crimson  with  shame,  the  que^tionerB  withdrew, 
And  they  deolarad,  "  Tlie  Prophet's  words  were  true ; 
The  mouth  of  Ali  is  the  golden  door 

When  his  friends  to  Al!  bore 
These  words,  he  smiled,  and  said,  "And  should  they  ask 
The  same  until  ray  dying  day,  the  task 
Were  easy;  for  the  stream  from  Wisdom's  well,  ' 
Which  God  supplies,  is  ineuhaustjblc." 

MOHAMMEDAN  LOGIC. 

The  laws  of  Cos  discountenance  in  a  very  singular  manner 
any  cruelty  on  the  part  of  females  towards  their  admirers.  An 
instance  occurred  while  Dr.  Clarke  and  his  companions  were  on 
the  island,  in  which  the  unhappy  termination  of  a  love-affair 
occasioned  a  trial  for  what  the  Mohammedan  lawyers  oasuisti- 
cally  dcscrihe  as  "homicide  by  an  intermediate  cause."  The 
following  was  the  ease:  a  young  man  desperately  in  love  with 
a  girl  of  Stanohis  eagerly  sought  to  marry  her,  but  his  propo- 


lyClOOglC 


510  MOSLEM   WISDOM. 

ails  were  lejeeted  Id  consequence,  he  destroyed  himself  by 
poi-on  Tbe  Turkish  police  arreited  the  lather  of  the  obdu- 
nte  lair,  arjd  tneJ  him  for  oulpahle  fiumiuJe.  "If  the  ac- 
cused," argued  they,  with  much  gravity,  "  had  not  had  a 
daughtei,  the  decewed  would  not  have  fiillen  in  lovo;  conse- 
quently he  would  not  have  been  disappointed ,  conseqaently  he 
wiiuld  nut  hive  swallowed  poiton ,  consequently  he  would  not 
have  died , — but  the  accused  hid  a  daughter,  the  deceased  had 
fallen  in  love,"  &o.  Upon  all  these  counts  he  was  called  upon 
to  pay  the  price  of  the  young  man's  life ;  and  this,  being  fixed 
at  the  sum  of  eighty  piastres,  was  accordingly  exacted. 

THE  ALEXANDRIAN  LIBBAKY. 

Said  Omar,  "  Either  these  books  are  in  conformity  with  the 
Koran,  or  they  are  not.  If  they  are,  they  are  useless,  and  if 
not,  they  are  evil:  in  either  event,  therefore,  let  them  be 
destroyed," 

Such  was  tho  logic  that  led  to  the  destruction  of  seven  hun- 
dred thousand  manuscript  volumes. 

TURKISH   EXPEDIENTS. 

A  Tnikisli  testator  left  to  his  eldest  son  one-half  of  his 
seventeen  horses,  to  his  second  son  one-third,  to  his  third  son 
one  ninth  of  his  horses  The  esecutor  did  not  know  what  to 
do,  aa  seventeen  will  neither  divide  by  two,  nor  by  three,  nor 
by  nine  A  dervise  came  up  on  horseback,  and  the  executor 
consulted  him  The  dervise  said,  "  Take  my  horse,  and  add 
hirn  to  the  others"  There  were  then  eighteen  horses.  The 
pseoutor  then  gave  to  the  eldest  son  one-half, — nine;  to  the 
second  son  one  thud, — aix  to  the  third  son  one-ninth, — two  : 
total,  seventeen  The  dervise  then  said,  "You  don't  want 
my  hcrse  now ,  I  will  take  him  back  again." 


lyGoogle 


EXOERPTA  mOM 


SSjccrpta  from  i3«sian  ^omg. 

EARTH  AN  ILLUSION. 
FttOu  the  misls  of  tho  Ocean  nf  Truth  ia  the  skiaa 
A  Mirage  in  doluaing  refleetioDs  doth  rise, 
There  ia  oaught  bnt  reality  there  to  be  seen  ,■ 
Wb  hare  here  hut  the  lie  of  ita  vapory  ahocn. — HiFiz. 

HEAVEN   AN  ECHO   OF   EARTH. 
'Tis  l)ut  a  shadow  of  iha  earth's  familiar  bliaa, 
Bright  mirrorod  on  the  sky's  ethereal  fonts. 
That  fills  our  breaala  with  longings  nothing  can  diamias, 

A   MORAL 
It  is  as  hard  for  one  whom  i 
From  prayor,  lo  keep  his 


FORTUNE   AND   WORTH. 
That  hnnghty  rieh  man  aae,  a  merely  gilded  clud; 

This  poor  man  see,  puro  gold  witL  eommon  dust  beai 
Start  nol>i  in  needy  garb  was  Moaea  girt  and  shod, 

When  waved  and  shona  before  iiim  Pbaiaoh'a  golden 

BROKEN    HEARTS. 
When  other  things  are  broken  they  are  nothing  worth. 


TO  A   GENEROUS   MAN. 
To  clond  of  rain  refreshing  all  the  land. 

It  is  not  fit  to  liken  thy  free  hand ; 

But  thou  still  ^veat  with  a  smile. 

beauty's  prerogative. 

Tliy  beauty  pales  all  sublunary  Ihinga, 
And  man  to  vassalage  eternal  dooma; 
The  road  before  thee  should  ba  swept  with  br 

Made  of  the  eye-lashes  of  poorlesa  kinga, 


lyGoogle 


PaOM    PERSIAN    POETRY. 


PROUD   HUMILITY. 


Id  proud  tumili^  a  pious  man  went  throngli  the  field ; 
The  ears  of  oora  were  bowing  in  the  wind,  as  if  they  kneeled; 
He  BCniQk  them  on  the  head,  and  modestly  began  ta  sa;, 
"  Unto  the  Lord,  not  unto  me,  such  honors  should  jon  pay." 

rOLLY  FOR  one's   help. 

While  his  own  soul  in  e&A  confusion  lies, 
la  like  those  men  who  builded  Noah's  ark, 
Butaank,  themselves,  beneath  the  waters  dark. 

THE  IMPOSSIBILITY. 
When  I  Ehall  see,  though  clad  in  gold  or  silk, 

In  peace  and  joy  a  wicked  maa  or  maid, 
I  then  shall  drink  n  bowl  of  pigeon's  milk, 

And  eat  the  yelton  eggs  (be  ox  has  luid. 

THE   SOBER   DRUNK  EN  NE.^S. 
Beware  the  deadly  fumes  of  that  insane  elation 

"Which  rises  from  the  eup  of  mad  impiety, 
And  go  get  drunk  with  that  divine  intuiication 

Wbicb  is  more  sober  far  than  all  sobriety. 

A  wine-drinker's  metaphors. 

As  the  nightiugale  oft  from  a  rose's  dew  sips, 

So  I  wet  with  fresh  wins  my  Ijelanguiahing  lips. 

As  the  soul  of  perfume  through  a  flower's  petals  sllp^ 


FROM   MIHTSA   SCHAFFY. 
Better  stars  without  shine. 
Than  the  shine  without  stars. 
Better  wine  without  jars, 
Thtin  the  jara  withont  wine. 
Bettor  honey  without  bees, 
Than  tbo  bees  without  honey. 
Better  please  without  money, 


lyClOOglC 


Thr 


EXCERFIA.  FROM  PEKSIAS    POETRY. 

THE  IKJUBLB   PLOT. 
B  hungry  trarellerB  found  a  bug  of  gold ; 


■a  when 


aoia. 


He  thoneht,  I  will  poison  ths  bread  I  buy, 
And  seiie  the  trensura  when  mj  comrades  die. 
Bnt  thej  too  thought,  When  baok  his  feet  UaTs  ; 
We  will  destroy  him  and  the  gold  divide. 
They  Mlled  birn ;  and,  partaking  of  the  braad, 
In  a  few  moments  all  ware  lying  dead. 


THE  TFOELD'S  UNAPPKEOIATION. 

Tiie  lyrical  poems  of  the  East  called  G7tazek,  of  which  the 
following,  from  Trench,  is  a  brief  speeimeQ,  have  this  pecu- 
liarity,— that  the  first  two  lines  rhyme,  and  for  this  rhyme  re- 
curs a  new  one  in  the  second  line  of  each  succeeding  couplet, 
the  alternate  lines  being  free : — ■ 

What  ia  the  good  man  and  the  wise? 
Ofltimes  a  pearl  which  none  dothpriie; 

A  eommon  pebble,  and  daBpiao. 
Set  forth  upon  the  world's  basaar, 
n  mildly  gleams,  but  no  one  buje, 
!rill  it  in  anger  Heaven  withdraws 
Prom  the  world's  undisceming  eyes. 
And  in  its  shell  the  pearl  again. 
And  in  its  mine  the  jewel,  lies. 

THE   CALIPH   AND   SATAN. 
In  heavy  sleep  the  Caliph  lay. 
When  some  one  called,  "Arise  and  pray  l" 
The  angry  Caliph  cried,  "Who  dale 
Rebuke  hiB  king  for  alighted  prayerT 
Then,  from  the  comer  of  the  room,  ■ 
A  Toice  cut  sharply  through  the  gloom:— 
"  My  name  is  Satan.    Rise '.  obey 
Mohammed's  law:  Awate  and  pray." 
"Thy  wonit  are  good,"  the  Caliph  said, 
"But  their  intent  I  somewhat  dread; 


lyGoogle 


FKOM  PEKSIAN   POETRY. 

For  matters  cannot  well  be  worse 

Than  when  the  thief  saja,  '  Qnard  jonr  pnrH. 

I  cannot  trust  your  counsel,  friend ; 

It  eurelj  hiiieB  some  wieked  end," 

Said  Satan,  "Hear  the  throne  of  God, 

In  ages  past,  we  deTib  trodj 

Angels  of  light,  to  us  'twas  given 

To  guide  each  wanderiug  foot  to  HoaTSn; 

Not  wholly  lost  ia  that  first  lore, 

Nor  those  pure  tastes  we  kaew  above. 

Roaming  across  a  ocmtiDenI:, 

The  Tartar  moves  hie  shifting  tent. 

But  never  quite  forgets  the  day 

When  in  his  father's  aims  be  lay; 

So  we,  once  bathed  in  luve  divina, 

Heoall  the  taste  of  that  rich  wine. 

That  magic  touch,  I  feel  it  now! 
I  fell,  'tie  true,— Oh,  ask  not  why  1 
For  still  to  God  I  turn  my  eyej 
It  was  a  obnnoe  by  which  I  ftll : 
Another  takes  me  back  to  hell. 
'Twaa  but  my  envy  of  mankind. 
The  envy  of  a  loving  mind. 
Jealous  of  men,  I  could  not  bear 
God's  love  with  this  new  race  to  share. 
Bui  yet  God's  tables  open  stand, 
His  guests  flock  in  from  every  lajid. 
Some  kind  act  toward  the  race  of  men 

A  game  of  chess  is  all  we  sac, — 

And  God  the  player,  pieces  we. 

White,  black,— qneen,  pawn, — 'tis  all  the  same; 

For  on  both  sides  he  plays  the  game. 

Moved  to  and  tro,  from  good  to  ill. 

We  rise  and  fall  as  suits  bis  nilU" 

The  Caliph  stud,  "If  this  be  so 

I  know  not;  bnt  thy  guile  I  know; 

For  how  can  I  thj  words  believe, 

When  even  God  thou  didst  deceive  ? 


lyClOOglC 


EriORAMS. 

A  aaa  of  lies  art  thou, — our  sin. 

Only  n.  drop  iJial  sea  within." 

"  Not  BO,"  said  Satan :  "  I  serve  God, 

Hie  angei  now,  find  now  hia  rod. 

In  tempting,  I  both  btoss  and  curse. 

Make  good  men  bctt«r.  bud  men  woree. 

Good  coin  is  miied  witb  bad,  my  brother, 

I  but  distinguish  one  from  th'  other." 

"  Griotcd,"  the  Caiiph  said ;  "  but  still 

Ton  norer  tempt  to  good,  bat  ill. 

TbIJ,  then,  tha  truth  ;  for  well  I  fenow 

Tou  come  as  my  most  deadly  foe." 

Loud  laughed  the  fiend.     "  Ton  know  mo  wi 

Therefore  my  puipose  will  I  tall; 

If  you  had  missed  yosr  piayor,  I  kDeir 

A  swift  lepetttanea  would  ensnei 

And  each  repentance  would  have  bean 

A  good,  outweighing  far  tha  sin. 

I  chose  this  humbleness  diiEna, 

Born  out  of  fault,  should  not  be  thine; 

ft^farring  prajers  elate  with  pride. 

To  sin  with  penitence  allied," 


iSpigirams. 


MARTIALS   EPIGRAM   ON  EPiaaAMS. 
Omnis  epigramm%  ait  instar  apis ;  sit  aculcus  ilU, 


A  ating,  and  honey,  and  a  body  amall.] 

MIDAS   AND   MODERff   STATESMEN. 
Midas,  they  say,  poeaasead  the  art,  of  old. 
Of  turning  whatsoe'er  he  touohed  to  gold. 
This,  modem  atatesmen  oan  reyeree  nitb  ease; 
Touch  tliem  with  gold,  they'll  turn  to  what  you  p 


lyGoogle 


BPIQIU  MS. 


INSCHIBED   ON  A  STATUE   TO   BLEEP. 


ViTCroq 

am  suave  es 

„eieB 

ne  mecte 

mori.— Wabton. 

[Light  sleep,  though  de 

ti'aE 

roDg  ima 

e,  prjthe 

gii-e 

Thy  fell 

wEhip  while 

ouch  1 1 

0  gentk,  w 

shed-for  res 

Thns  wi 

hoiit  life,  and 

witho 

nt  rfen/A 

«<?«.-]« 

)K.    KOBERT   FREIND,   WHO    WROTE   LONG  HITAPHS. 
Freind,  for  jour  epitoplia  I'm  grieTed, 


UDM   vrviMUS  VIVAMU8. 
Live  wtiie  you  livo,  the  epicure  would  say. 
And  seize  the  pleasures  of  the  present  day. 
Liyo  while  you  live,  the  sacred  preaehtr  erie», 
ind  give  to  Ood  Baet  moment  as  it  flies, 
uord,  in  my  view  let  hoth  united  bo; 
I  lire  in  pleasure  while  I  live  to  Ihee. — Boddktdoe. 

TO   "  MOLLY  ASTON," 
A  ceUhraled  "beaiUy,  scholar,  and  w!l,"  vrho  tpoke  ta  praise  of  liberlg. 
Liber  ut  ease  yelim,  suasisti,  pulohra  Maria: 
Ut  maneam  liber,  pulebra  Maria,  vulo !— Dn,  Johkson, 
[Freedom  yon  teach,  fair  Mary.     To  bo  free, 
Earewell,  leat"!  should  be  enslaved  by  thee  I] 
ON   ONE  IGNORANT   AND   ARROGANT, 
Thoumayst  of  douhle  ignorance  boast, 
■Who  knowst  not  that  thou  nothing  fcnowsL— Owem,  Trans.  Sjf  Coiojw 

*  Como,  gentle  sleep  I  attend  thy  votary's  pr«')'<"'' 
And,  though  death's  image,  to  my  oouoh  repair; 
How  sweet,  though  lifeless,  yet  with  life  to  lie, 
And,  without  dying,  oh,  how  sweet  to  die  !-  Wokofs  Tra„>. 


lyClOOglC 


EPIGRAMS. 
TO   OUK   BED. 


LATE   EBPENTANCE. 
PraTUS,  that  Bjed  detiHolieB, 

Proolaimecl  a  tow  his  sins  to  qi 
But  is  he  yet  from  any  freB, 

Eioept  what  now  he  con'(  eorai 


L  PALE  LATT  WITH   A  i 


it  because  the  absent  re 


OS   SOME   SNOW   ■} 


eELVAQGI  8  DISTICH 


!   MELTllD  ON  A  LADY  S   BREAST. 
Sakes  came  dawn  in  biisM, 
find  themealvea  surpassed,* 

TO   JOHN   MILTON. 

Roma  Maronem, 


DHYDBN  8 
TliTes  posts  in  three  distant  agBE  born, 
GraeoB,  Italy,  and  England  did  adorn. 
Tho  first  in  loftiness  of'thought  surpassed; 
The  next,  in  majostj;  in  both,  the  la^t. 
The  force  of  nature  oould  no  further  go: 
To  malie  a  third,  she  joined  the  former  two. 

•  The  following  madrigal  was  addressed  to  a  Lancastrian  lady,  and  iweoi 
inied  with  a  white  rose,  during  the  opposition  of  the  "White  Rose"  a: 
Bed  Rose"  adherents  of  tho  houses  of  York  and  Lancaster;— 
If  this  fair  rose  offend  thy  sight. 

It  in  thy  bosom  wearj 
'Twill  blueh  to  find  itself  less  white, 
And  turn  Lancastrian  there. 


lyGoogle 


ON   butler's   t 
While  Bntler,  needy  nretali,  was  yet  alive. 
Nil  generous  patron  would  a  dinner  gire. 
See  him,  when  atarved  lo  death  and  turned  to  dust. 
Presented  with  a  manumental  bust. 
The  poet's  fate  is  here  in  emhlem  shown  ; 
He  asked  for  brsod,  and  be  received  a  stone.— S.  Wkbley. 

OVERDRAWN   COMPLIMENT. 
So  much,  dear  Pope,  thy  English  Homer  oharma, 
As  pitj  melts  na,  or  aa  passion  warms, 
Tiiat  after-agea  will  irith  nouder  seek 
Who  'twaa  trujisiated  Homor  info  Greek. 

SUGGESTED  BY  A  GERMAN  TOURIST. 

TPSo  aecnmpamed  Prince  Albs-t  into  Scotkaul. 

Charmed  with  Uie  drink  wllioh  Highlanders  compose, 

A  German  traveller  eselaimed,  with  glee, 
' '  Polatanseud !  Bare,  if  this  be  Afhol  Brose," 
How  good  the  Athol  JSoan/  must  be  I" — Tou  Hood. 
ETERNITY. 
Kesaon  does  but  one  guiunt  solution  lend 
To  nature's  deepest  yet  dirinesl  riddle ; 

Eternity  is  nothing  but  a  middle, 
OCCASIONED  fey  THE  LOSS  OP  A  CLERGYMAN'S  rORTMANTEAlI, 

I've  lost  my  portmanteau. 

"I  pity  your  grief." 
It  oontained  sJl  my  sermons. 

"Ipitylhe  thief!" 

TO  A  LIVING  AUTHOE. 
Tour  oomedy  IVe  read,  my  friend. 

And  like  tbe  half  you  pilfered,  best; 
Bnt  sure  the  piece  yon  yet  may  mend  ; 

Take  courage,  maa  I  and  ateal  the  rest. 

*  Athol  brose  is  a  favorite  Highland  drink,  composed  of  honey,  whiskey, 
and  waMr,  although  the  proportion  of  tbe  latter  is  usually  so  homieopnthi- 
oally  minuto  as  to  be  difficult  of  detection  except  by  chemical  or  mioroseopica! 
analysis.  Possibly  the  Sootoh  aversion  to  injuring  the  flaror  of  their  whiskey 
by  dilution  arises  from  a  fact  noted  by  N.  P.  WUlis,  that  the  water  has  tasted 
so  strongly  of  sinners  ever  since  the  Flood. 


lyClOOglC 


EPIGRAMS. 

TETE  PBOGAL  QUEEN. 
One  Queen  Artemisia,  as  old  stories  tell, 
When  deprived  of  lier  husband  abe  lov6d  ao  well, 

Bhe  reduced  bim  to  dust,  and  abe  drunk  oS  Iba  puicdar. 
But  Queen  Netberplac< 


■When 


IF  the  flineri 


ON  COMMISSART  GOLDIE'S  BHAINS. 

Or  e'er  diaputo  thj  pleasure  f 
Else  wbj  wiUiin  ao  tbiok  a  wail 

Enclose  ao  poor  a  treasuro?— BuiUiS. 

GIVING  AND  TAKING, 
"  I  navsr  give  a  kiss,"  e&ye  Prue, 

"To  naugbty  man,  for  I  abhor  it" 
She  will  not  give  a  kies,  'tis  true ; 

She'll  taie  one,  though,  and  thank  jou  for  it.— MooRB. 


Die  when  yon  will,  yaa  need  m 

At  Heaven'a  court  a  form  more 

Than  baautj  here  OD  earth  h 

Koep  but  the  lorelj  looks  we  sc 

-  ■  ■  mdjrOU 


Aaai 


le  for  hr 


— ^MOORB. 


THE  LOVER  TO  HIS  MISTRESS,  WITH  A  PRESENT  OP  A  MIRI 
This  mirror  my  object  of  love  will  unfold 

Wbenaoe'er  jour  regard  it  allures : 
Oh,  would,  when  I'm  gazing,  that  I  might  behold 

On  ita  Burfioa  the  object  of  yours  I 

TO  A  CAPRICIOUS   FRIEND. 
DiffieUis,  faoilia,  jueundus,  acerbua  ea  idem, 
Nee  tooum  possum  rivere,  neo  sine  to. — Marhal. 
[In  all  thy  humors,  whclbor  grave  or  mellow, 
Thon'rt  snob  a  touoby,  testy,  pleasant  fellow, 
Eaet  ao  much  wit,  and  mirth,  and  ^leen  about  thee, 
Xbare  is  no  living  wiUi  thee,  noir  without  thee— Addison.] 


lyClOOglC 


MENDAX. 
See  I  yonder  goes  old  Mendas,  tolling  lies 

To  that  good,  easy  man  with  wbom  lie's  waJkiiig. 
How  kuoir  I  that?  jou  a^l:,  nitb  some  surprlse; 

ON   FELL. 
■While  Fell  waa  reposing  himself  on  the  hay, 
A  reptile,  ooaceolod,  bit  his  log  as  he  luj; 
But,  nil  venom  himself,  of  the  wound  he  mode  ligtil. 
And  got  well,  vhile  the  soorpion  died  of  the  hite. — Ijessiko. 

ON  AN  ILIr-BEAD  LAWYER. 
An  idle  attornej  besought  a  brother 
Tot '"  something  to  read, — some  novel  or  other. 
That  was  really  fresh  and  new." 


WOMAN  S  WILL. 
Men  dying  moke  their  wills ;  but  wive 


WELLINGTON'S  HOSE. 
"Pray,  why  does  the  great  Captain's  nose 

Resemble  Veniea?"  Dunoomb  cries. 
"Why,"  quoth  Sam  Eogera,  "I  suppose 

BeoausB  it  has  a  bridge  of  siie  (siglis)." 

ONE   GOOD  TURN  DESERVES  ANOTHER. 
A  poor  man  wont  to  hang  himself, 


And  left  the  rope  1 
Hla  money  gone,  the 


BAD 

SwaDB  sing  before  they  ( 


lyGoogle 


ON  A  BAD  FIDDLER. 
Old  OrpbauB  pLajna  so  well,  lie  moved  Old  Niok; 
Bnt  thou  mov'st  nothing  but  thj  flddle-Etiok. 

ON   A  OEBTAIN   B.D, 
B'So,  Jram  a  pfouliarily  in  Me  walJi,  had  aeqmred  the  sobriquet  of  Br.  Toe, 
beaig  jilted  by  Mis!  S.,  loio  etoparf  tciii  her /alher'i  foolmaa. 
.  'Twist  footman  Bam  and  Doctor  Too 

■Whicli  should  prevail  against  his  foo. 

And  bear  away  the  belle. 
The  ladj  ehoae  the  footman's  heail. 


■I'waa  Fnot-maa  oa-sm  Toe-man. 
N   OLD  LADY  WHO  MAttRIED   HER   FOOTMAN. 
Old  Lady  Lovejoj,  aged  juft  threescore. 
Whose  luHtj  footboy  rode  behind,  before, 
la,  in  a  fit  of  fondness,  grown  so  kind, 
He  rides  nithin,  who  rode  before,  iwhind. 
"hot  COEN." 


While  Iha  oobs  on  his  plate  lay  in  tiers. 
\a  W  that,"  answered  Q  as  be  glanced  at 
'"TwiE  depend  oo  the  length  of  his  ears 


In  1817,  wlien  straw  bonnets  first  i,ame  into  general  use 
VHS  common  to  trim  tbem  mit!i  ardfleial  wheat  oi   barley  i 
iars ;  wtence  the  following  : — 

Who  now  of  threatening  famine  dare  oomplam. 
When  every  female  forehead  teems  with  grain? 
Bee  how  the  whoal-sheaves  nod  amid  the  plumes : 
Our  baraa  are  now  transferred  to  drawing-rooms. 


Campbell,  the  poet,  was  asked  by  a  lady  to  write  sotMethia 
orijpnal  in  her  album.     He  wrote, — 


'rile;  butbowahalllbi 


lyClOOglC 


EPIGRAMS. 

"H5w  very  easy 'tis,"  orisaT 
I  flQd't  no  hardship  verses  to 
"To  credit  that,"  quoth  Dick 
The  hurdahip  is  for  ikote  wJo 

m,  "to 
iniSile." 

Thy  7 
Porhe 

wL 

are  eteraal,  0  my 
reads  them,  reads 

riendl 
them  to 

Unfor 
Yonrr 

"iTgl 

a  lady 

hon  sad  is 
r.d,andyo 

jour iDtl 
r  poems 

PEUDENT  SIMPLICITY. 
That  tJiou  mayst  injure  no  man,  doTB-lLke  be; 
And  sarpant-like,  that  none  may  injure  thee  ! — C 

TO  A  FRIEND   I 


Judge  Bacon  onee  trying  a  man.  Hog  by  name. 
Who  made  irith  his  lordship  of  kindred  a  olium; 
"Hold,"  said  the  judge,— "you're  a  little  miataki 
Hog  muat  ha  hung  first  before  'tia  good  Baoon." 

A  WAEM  RECEPTION, 


And  ailed  it  fkll  of  warm  and  keen  desire; 
He  hoped  to  raise  a  flame,  and  so  ha  did : 
The  lady  put  his  nonsense  in  the  fire. 

MEDICAL  ADVICE. 
"Fm  very  ill,"  said  Skinflint,  once  essaying 
To  get  a,  doctor's  counsal  without  paying. 
"  I  see  it,"  quotb  the  nily  old  physioian ; 
"  You're  in  a  moat  deplorablo  condition." 
"But  tell  me,"  cried  the  misBr,  "for  God's  sake. 


Implied  the  leeoh,  ' 

DEFINITION   OP  A  DENTIST. 
A  dentist  fashions  teeth  of  bone 

For  those  whom  fate  has  left  wilhoul^ 
And  finds  provision  for  his  omh 
By  pulling  other  people's  out. 


lyGoogle 


EPIGKAMS. 

Dr.  Samuel  Groodenough,  Bishop  of  Oarlisle,  preached  c 
occasion  befero  the  Housq  of  Commona.  The  event  gav 
to  the  following ; — 

'Tis  nelUeoougli  that  Goodenongi 
Berore  the  Huusg  sbonld  preaohj 

Bor  Burfl-enongh  full  bad-enongh 
Are  those  he  has  to  teach. 

WHAT  MIGHT  HAVE  BEEN. 
As  two  divines  their  ambling  steeds  bestriding, 

Sudden  It  simple  atraoture  met  their  sight, 
From  whicb  the  oonviot  taiies  his  hempon  flight; 
When  sailor-like  he  bids  adieu  to  bope. 
His  aJI  depending  on  a  single  rope. 
"  Say,  brother,"  cried  the  one,  "  pray  where  were  yon 
Had  yonder  gallowa  been  allowed  its  due  ?" 
"Where  ?"  cried  the  other,  in  earoaatio  tone, 
"Wbj.wberflbnt  riding  into  town  alone." 


A  REFLECTION', 


rou're  a  pilfering  Jade; 
ia  beyond  all  belief." 
I  Earth,  hold  your  prate; 
as  the  thief." 


When  Eve  upon  the  first  of  men 
The  apple  pressed  with  specious  ca 
Oh,  what  a  thousand  pities,  then. 
That  Adam  was  not  Adamant. 


THE  BLADES    ( 


THE    SHEARS. 


Two  lawyers  when  a  knotty  case  was  o'er. 
Shook  hands,  and  wore  as  friendly  as  befo 
"  Zoanda !"  said  the  elient,    "  I  would  fair 


lyGoogle 


Tho  following  was  written  by  Soutliey  on  Queen  Elizabeth's 
lining  on  board  -Sir  Francis  Drake's  ship,  on  hia  return  from 
circumnavigating  the  globe : — 

Oh,  Nalnre !  to  old  Bngiand  fltill 

Continue  these  mistake^] 
Give  us  for  all  our  Kinga  snch  Qaeeaa, 

And  for  our  Ihix  euoli  Drakes. 

INVISIBLE. 


For  when  he  prays  he  shuts  hia  eyes. 
And  nhan  he  p reach ea  he  shuts  mine. 

IMPEESONAL. 
Quoth  Madam  Bas  Bleu,  "  I  haar  jou  have  sa 
Xntellectaal  women  are  alwajs  your  dread; 

Now  tall  me,  dear  sir,  is  it  true  V 
"Why,  yea,"  aaid  tha  wag,  "Vary  likely  Im 
Have  made  the  remark  in  a  jocular  way; 

But  then,  on  icy  honor,  I  didn't  mean  jou. 

AITINITIES, 
"A  lady,  once,  whose  lore  was  sold. 
Asked  if  a  reason  ooold  be  told. 
Why  wariding  rings  ware  made  of  gold ; 


And  gold  its  best  oonduotor," 

TUE  CEIEE  WHO  COULD  NOT  CRY. 

I  heard  a  judge  his  tipstaff  call 

And  Bay,  "  Sir,  I  desire 
You  go  torthwith  and  search  the  Hnll, 

And  send  to  me  the  crier." 
"  And  search,  my  Lord,  in  vain,  I  maj" — 

The  tipstaff  grarely  said— 
"The  Crier  cannot  erj  to-day. 


lyClOOglC 


A  pan 
Tome 


hBJ  817, 


"oil  things  eood  and  fair. 
All  that  Is  virtuous,  wise,  balovfid,  rare, 
1b  sure  fke  first  to  &el  the  stroke  of  fate; 
While  vice  and  folly  have  a  longer  dale." 
"  True,"  ories  Ihe  butcher,  "  for  it  ia  decreed. 
The  fattest  pig,  alasl  must  aoonest  bleed." 

THE  CLOCK. 
A  meotanio  his  labor  will  often  discard. 

But  a  clock — and  its  case  is  nneommonly  hard — 
Will  oontinue  to  UKirb  though  it  alri&es.SooJi. 

MASCULINE. 
"What  pity  'tis,"  said  John,  the  sage, 

Exposo  tbemselves  upon  the  stage, 

"ErpcueJ"  eriea  Nad,  who  lOTca  a  jeer; 


IH   EETTJBN  FOB   A  lADS'S   SKETCH   OB   THE   APOLLO. 
If  fair  Apollo  drew  his  bow 

Aa  well  aa  you  have  drawn  it  here. 
No  wonder  that  ho  carries  woo 

To  man;  a  maiden  far  and  near. 
One  difference,  though,  I  understand. 

Between  thia  picture  and  the  giver : 
Apollo  keeps  his  bow  in  hand — 

You  keep  your  beaux  upon  tho  q^uiver. 


Engliahmi 


As  In  India,  on 

With  a  smarl 
"Do  your  widows  burn  themselves?  pray  tell  mo  that?" 

Said  the  pretty,  inquiaitiTB  Hindoo. 
"  Do  thoy  bum  ?  ah,  yes,"  tho  gentleman  said, 

"With  a  flame  not  so  easy  to  smother; 


lyGoogle 


The  following  epigram, by  Samuel  Ikigera,  on  Lord  Dudley's 
studied  speeches  io  Parliament,  was  pronounced  by  Byron,  in 
convereation  with  Lady  Blesaington,  "  one  of  tbe  best  in  the 
JGngiish  language,  with  tte  true  Greek  talent  of  expressing,  by 
implication,  what  is  wished  to  be  conveyed  :" — 

■Ward  has  no  heart,  ttey  saj,  but  I  deny  it : 
]Ib  has  a.  heart,  and  geta  hia  apeeehos  by  it. 

On  the  marriage  of  Dr.  Webb  with  Miss  Gould,  a  classieal 
friend  sent  him  the  following : — 

Tela  fuit  simpleic  stutuens  decus  addei'e  telte, 
Feoit  hymen  gerniniuo  puroque  intaxuit  auro. 
[Singlo  no  more,  a  doublB  Wohb  behold; 
Hjman  embroidered  it  with  virgin  Gould.] 

APTES   OOING  TO  LAW. 
This  law,  they  say,  great  nature's  chain  oonneotB, 
That  eauses  OTer  must  prodneo  effixts. 

AE  my  egtcU  lost  by  a  single  co^e.    . 
SAME   JAWBONE. 
Jaek  eating  rotten  ohease  did  say, 
"Like  Samson  I  my  thousands  slay." 
"I  vow,"  says  Koger,  "so  yon  do, 
And  with  the  selfsame  weapon  too." 


Is  to  die  an  old  maid  or  a  minister's  wife, 

"  I'll  hear  him  all  day,  if  I  walk  on  my  head  I" 
"  Good  1"  said  old  Huns,  with  a  comical  smile ; 
"  But  please,  if  you're  lata,  don't  come  up  the  broad  aisli 
MARarAQE  k  LA  MODE. 
"Tom,  yon  should  take  a  wife."     "Nay,  God  forbid  I" 
"I  found  yon  one  last  night."     "  The  deuce  you  did  1" 
"SofByl  perhaps  she'll  please  you."     "Oh,  of  course  I" 
" Eighteen."    " Alarming  1"     " Witty."     "Say,  tbafa  worse !" 
''Discreel."     "AUsliowr    "Handsome."     "  To  lure  the  feilon 
"High-hom,"     "Ay,  baughtyl"     " Tendor-liearted."     "Joaloi 
"Talents  o'orflowing."     "Ay,  enough  to  aluioe  me!" 
'.'ABdllien,  Tom,  Buchafortnne!"     "Introduce  me!" 


lyClOOglC 


"  Moltlnge,  not  mirago,  Jo 
■With  jour  aiiuoaSon,  yoa  i 
Qnioklj  Bpote  mj  young  t 
quite  eorrecl.  Thorn: 


"Tis 


>H0   QUO. 
3,  here  in  jour  lo' 
relj  knoiT  better, 
fe,  wbUe  I  sat  in 
:  they're  each  HI 


WOMAN— 
Whon  AdBm,  waiting,  first  his  lids  unfolds 
In  Eden's  grovas,  beside  him  he  beholds 
Bona  of  hia  bone,  flesh  of  hia  flash,  and  knows 
His  esriiest  sleep  has  proved  bis  last  repose. 


WOMAN — PRO. 


It  she  denied  hiu 


her  Saviour  stung, 
holy  tongue : 
ODuld  danger  brave; 
it  at  the  grave. — ^B4rk 


That  he  who 

Must  bide  at  h< 

And  break  Iii 


world  that  over  was  ki 
SANS   OYER. 


3all  silence  1"  the  judge  t( 
"Tdis  hubbub  and  talk,  v 
■,e  people  this  morning  t 


We' 


without  1 


DOUBLE  TISION   UTILIZED. 
An  iaoipient  toper  was  oheoked  t'other  day, 
In  hia  downward  oaroor,  in  a  very  atranga  way. 
The  cffaot  of  indulgenoe,  he  found  to  his  trouble. 
Was  that  after  two  bottles  he  oame  to  soe  double; 
When  with  staggering  slops  tohis  home  ho  betook  him, 
He  saw  always  two  write.,  sitting  np  (o  rebuke  him. 
One  wife  in  her  wrafi  makes  a  pretty  strong  ease ; 
But  a  eoi^ls  thua  soolding,  nhat  courage  oould  face? 


lyGoogle 


Smptompttts. 

One  day,  as  Dr.  Young  was  walking  in  bis  garden  at  Welwjn 
in  company  with  two  ladies,  (one  of  whom  he  afterwards  mar- 
ried,) the  servant  came  to  acquaint  him  that  a  gentleman  wished 
to  speak  with  him.  "  Tell  him,"  said  the  doctor,  "  I  am  too 
happily  engaged  to  change  my  situation."  The  ladies  in- 
sisted that  he  should  go,  as  his  visitor  was  a  man  of  rank,  his 
patron,  and  his  friend.  But,  as  persuasion  had  no  effect,  one 
took  him  hy  the  right  arm,  the  other  hy  the  left,  and  led  him 
to  the  garden-gate ;  when,  finding  resistance  in  vain,  he  bowed, 
laid  his  hand  upon  his  heart,  and,  in  that  expresaive  mannei 
for  which  he  was  so  remarkable,  Bpoke  the  following  linos : — 

ThuB  Adam  looked  when  from  the  giitden  driven, 
Aoil-thua  disputed  orders  seat  from  hoareD. 
Like  him  I  go,  but  jet  to  go  I'm  loath ; 
Like  bim  I  go,  for  angels  drore  us  both. 
Hard  was  his  fate,  but  mine  still  more  unkind  : 
His  Eve  neut  with  him,  but  mine  stays  hehjad. 

Bea  Jonson  having  been   invited  to  dine  at  the  Falcon 
Tavern,  where  he  was  already  deeply  in  debt,  the  landlord  pro- 
mised to  wipe  out  the  score  if  he  would  tell  him  what  G-od, 
and  the  devil,  and  the  world,  and  tlie  landlord  himself,  would 
be  best  pleased  with.     To  which  the  ready  poet  promptly  re- 
God  is  beat  pleased  when  men  forsake  their  sin  ; 
The  devil  is  best  pleased  when  they  persist  therein ; 
The  world's  best  pleased  when  thou  dost  sell  good  wine ; 
And  you're  best  pleased  when  I  do  pay  for  mine. 

A  well-known  instance  of  self- extrication  from  a  dilemma  is 
thus  rendered  in  rhyme ; — 

When  Queen  Eliaabeth  desired 

That  Melville  would  acknowledge  fairly 
Whether  herself  ho  most  ndmired. 

Or  his  own  sovereign.  Lady  Mary  ? 
The  pniiled  knight  his  answer  thus  ospressod:— 


lyGoogle 


IMPROMPTUS.  529 

Burns,  going  into  eliurcli  one  Sunday  and  findiag  it  difficult 
to  procure  a  seat,  was  kindly  invited  by  a  young  lady  into  her 
pew.  The  sermon  being  upon  tie  terrors  of  the  law,  and  the 
preacher  being  particularly  severe  in  his  denunciation  of  sin- 
ners, the  lady,  who  was  very  attentive,  became  muoh  agitated. 
Burns,  ou  perceiving  it,  wrote  with  his  pencil,  on  a  blank  leaf 
of  her  Bible,  the  following ; — 

Pair  maid,  you  need  not  talie  the  hint, 

Mor  idlB  tests  parsne  ; 
'Twas  only  sianers  tliat  ho  meant, 

Hot  angels  snoh  as  you.      - 

One  evening  at  the  Kiog's  Arms,  Dumfries,  Bums  was  called 
from  a  party  of  friends  to  see  an  impertinent  coxcomb  in  the 
form  of  an  English  commercial  traveller,  who  patronizingly  in- 
vited the  Ayrshire  Ploughman  to  a  glass  of  wine  at  his  table. 
Entering  into  conversation  with  the  condescending  stranger, 
Burns  soon  saw  wliat  sort  of  person  he  had  to  deal  with.. 
About  to  leave  the  roooj,  the  poet  was  urged  to  give  a  specimen' 
of  his  facility  iO  impromptu  versifying,  when,  having  aaked  the 
name  and  age  of  the  conceited  traveller,  he  instantly  penned 
and  handed  him  the  following  stanza, — after  which  he  abruptly 
departed  : — 

In  sevonteon  hundred  forty-nine, 


Shaped  it  to  eometbing  like  a  man, 
And  oa'd  it  Andreir  Horner. 

After  Burke  had  finished  his  extraordinary  speech  against 
Warren  Hastings,  the  latter  (according  to  the  testimony  of  his 
private  secretary,  Mr.  Evans)  wrote  the  following  sarcastic 
impromptu : —  ■ 

on  have  we  wandered  that  on  Irish  ground 
TSo  poieonous  reptile  aver  yet  was  found; 


Dr.  Johnson's  definition  of  a  note  of  admiration  (I),  made  oi 
the  moment,  is  very  neat : — 


lyGoogle 


530  IMPROMPTUS. 

I  Bee— I  see— I  know  not  what : 
I  see  a  dnsb  above  a,  dot^ 
Ptesenting  to  mj  oontemplatlon 

An  old  gentleman  named  Uould,  having  married  a'  joung 
lady  of  nineteen,  thus  addressed  his  friend  Dr.  G-.  at  the  wed- 
ding festival  : — ' 

So  you  see,  my  dear  sir,  thongli  eighty  years  old, 
A  girl  of  DineteeQ  falls  in  love  trith  old  Gould. 

To  which  tha  doctor  replied, — 

A  girl  of  nineteen  may  love  Qould,  it  ia  true, 
But  believe  me,  dear  air,  it  ia  Qold  without  U. 

When  Peroj  first  published  his  collection  of  Ancient  English 
Ballads,  he  was  rather  lavish  in  commendation  of  their  beautiful 
simplicity.  This  provoked  Dr.  Johnson  to  say  oiie  evening,  at 
tbe  tea-table  of  Miss  Keynolds,  that  he  could  rhymo  as  well 
and  as  elegantly  iu  common  narrative  and  conversation.  "  For 
instaDoe,"  s^d  he, — 

"Ab,  with  my  bat  upon  tny  bead, 

I  natked  along  the  strand, 
I  there  did  meet  another  man 

Wilh  his  bat  in  bis  hand. 

Or,  to  render  such  poetry  subservieat  to  my  own  immediate 

I  therefore  pray  thee,  Eenny  dear 

That  thou  wilt  give  to  me, 
Witii  oreiuo  and  sugar  aoftaned  well. 

Another  cnp  of  tea. 
Nor  fear  ttat  I,  my  gentle  maid. 

Shall  long  detain  tbe  oup, 
When  once  unto  tbe  buttom  I 

Have  drank  the  liquor  up. 
Tet  hear,  alas !  this  mournful  truth. 

Nor  bear  it  with  a  frown; 
Thou  oanat  not  make  the  tea  as  &st 

As  I  can  gulp  it  down." 

Mr.  Fox,  the  great  orator,  was  on  one  occasion  told  by  a  lady 
that  she  "did  not  care  three  sftips  of  a  louse  for  him,."  He 
immediately  took  out  his  pencil  and  wrote  the  following : — 


lyClOOglC 


IMPROMPTUS. 


Aladjhna  toldu 
That  she  earea  nol 
I  forgive  the  dear 


Barcy  Willard,  who  formerly  lived  in  the  northern  part  of 
Vermont,  was  noted  for  his  careless,  vagabond  hahits,  ready 
wit,  and  remarkable  facility  at  extempore  rhyming.  Sitting 
one  day  in  a  village  stove,  among  a  crowd  of  idlers  who  always 
gathered  about  him  on  hia  arrival,  the  merchant  asked  Barty 
"  why  he  always  wore  that  shocking  bad  hat."  Barty  replied 
that  it  was  simply  because  he  was  unable  ffl  purchase  a  new 
one. 

"  Dome,"  said  the  merchant;  "make  me  a  good  rhyme  on 
the  old  hat  immediately,  without  stopping  to  think,  and  I'll 
give  you  the  best  castor  in  the  store."  Whereupon  Barty 
threw  his  old  tile  on  the  floor,  and  began  : — 

Here  lies  my  old  hat, 

And,  praj,  what  of  that? 
'Tis  as  good  OS  the  rest  of  017  raiment : 

If  I  buy  me  a  better. 

You'll  make  me  your  dehlor 
And  eond  me  (o  jsil  for  the  paymont. 

The  new  hat  was  adjudged,  by  the  "  unanimous  vote  of  the 
house,"  to  belong  to  Barty,  who  wore  it  off  in  triumph,  saying, 
"it  was  a  poor  head  that  couldn't  take  care  of  itself." 

An  Oxford  and  Cambridge  man,  who  had  had  frequent  dis- 
putes concerning  the  divinity  of  Christ,  chancing  to  meet  in 
company,  the  former,  with  a  serio-cojnical  air,  wrote  the  follow- 
ing lines  and  handed  them  to  the  latter  : — 


Tu  Judffi  airai 
Disarm  His  3a6 


— pienitu 


[You,  Judas 
Judas,  anlike  to  you,  repentant  sighed.] 

Whereupon  the  "  heretic"  retorted, — 

Tu  almul  ot  Bimilia  Judte,  tu  diuirailiaque ; 
Judce  itemm  aimilie  sis,  Inqucumque  petus. 
[You  are  like  Jndas,  yot  unlilte  that  tif; 
Once  more  like  Jndas  be,  and  hang  yourself.] 


lyGoogle 


C32  m-PROMpTus. 

The  common  phrase  Give  the  Devil  his  due,  was  turned  very 
wittily  by  a  member  of  the  bar  in  North  Carolina,  some  jeara 
ago,  on  three  of  his  legal  brethren,  Ihiring  the  trial  of  a  case, 
Hillman,  Dews,  and  Swaia' (all  distinguished  lawyers,  and  the 
last-named  President  of  the  State  tlnivereity)  handed  James 
'Dodge,  the  Clerk  of  the  Supreme  Court,  the  following  epitaph ; — 

Here  liee  James  Dodge,  who  dodged  all  good. 

And  never  dodged  nu  evil ; 
And,  after  dodging  all  ha  oonld. 

He  could  not  dodgo  the  Devil ! 

Mr.  Dodge  sent  back  to  the  gentlemen  the  annexed  im- 
promptu reply,  which  may  bo  considered  equal  to  anj  thing 
erer  expressed  in  the  best  days  of  Queens  Anne  or  Bess  : — 

Here  lies  a  Hillman  and  a  Swain ; 
Their  lot  let  oo  rnon  choose : 

,  and  died  in  pain, 

wsO 

A  lady  wrote  with  a  diamond  on  a  pane  of  glaaa, — 

God  did  at  first  make  man  npright;  hut  he— 

To  which  a,  gentleman  added, — 

A  lady  wrote  npon  a  window  some  yerses,,  intimating  her  de- 
itleman  wrote  the  following 

The  lady  whose  rsaolve  theso  words  helolten, 
■Wrote  them  on  glass,  to  show  it  maj  bo  broken. 

,    Sir  Walter  Baleigh  having  written  on  a  window, — 

Tain  would  I  olimb,  yat  fear  I  to  Fali,— 

Queen  Elizabeth,  the  instant  she  saw  it,  wrote  under  it, — 

Ifthyhaartfail  thoe,  climhnot  alflll. 

Perhaps  the  most  delicate  flattery  eyer  uttered  was  that  of 
the  ambassador,  who,  being  asked  by  a  beautiful  queen,  upon 
his  introduction  to  her  court,  whether  a  celebrated  beauty  in 
his  own  country  was  the  handsomest  woman  he  had  ever  seen, 
replied,  "I  thought  so  yesterday." 


lyClOOglC 


IMPROMPTUS. 


533 


A  party  of  gentlemen  at  Lord  1 
agreed  to  amuse  themselves  by  drawing  tickets  on  which  various 
uncomplimentary  devices  were  written.  These  were  extempora- 
neously turned  into  compliments  by  Cowper  as  follows; — 

Foiii'ly. — Dravin  by  Lord  Maeoleafleld. 

Be  vain,  toy  lord,  you  have  a  rig&t ; 
For  who,  like  you,  can  boaat  this  iiiglit, 
A  group  asaembled  in  one  pluoe 
Fraught  with  suoh  beauty,  wit  and  grace? 


mltililf/.—Wi.  Marsh  am. 


n  Mareham  be  ? 


In  Adams  where  it 


—Mr.  Gerard. 

Changed  though  the  nnnie, 
Yet,  blush  not,  Gerard,  the 
In  nil  thftt'a  worthy  you  e: 


Hiod, 


drawn  by  Mr.  Leggs. 
If  ahe  a  blank  for  Legge  designed,, 
Suro  Fortune  is  no  longer  blind ; 
For  we  shall  fill  the  paper  glren 
With  erery  rirtuB  nnder  heaven. 


Is  the  oourago  to  do  wrong. 


lyGoogle 


534  -REFRACTORY  EHYMINS. 

A  traveller,  upon  readiDg  the  inscription  affised  to  the  gates 
of  Bandon,  (a  town  in  Ireland  originally  peopled  by  English 
Protestants,) — 

Jew,  Turk  or  Atheist  onlBr  here ; 
But  let  no  Papist  dara  appear,— 

wrote  the  following  smart  reply  undemoath: — 

He  who  wrote  thiB  wrote  it  well ; 

The  same  ia  written  on  tba  gates  of  hall. 

At  one  of  Burns'  convivial  dinners  he  was  requested  to  say 
grace;  whereupon  he  gave  the  following  impromptu: — 

Lord,  we  do  thcK  hurohlj  thank 
For  that  we  little  merit.— 


When  Canning  was  challenged  to  iind  a  rhyme  for  JuKanna-, 
he  immediately  wrote, — 

.Walking  in  the  shady  grove 

With  <ny  Julianna, 
For  loMngea  I  gara  my  lore 

Ipeoarjuanha. 

Ipecacuanha  lozenges,  though    a  myth  when  tho  stanza  was 
written,  are  now  commonly  sold  hy  apothecaries. 

Three  or  four  wifB,  while  dining  together,  discussed  the 
difficulty  of  finding  rhymes  for  certain  names.  General  Morris 
ch^enged  any  of  the  party  to  find  a  happy  rhyme  for  his  name ; 
and  the  challenge  was  instantly  taken  up  by  John  Brougham, 
whose  facility  at  extempore  rhyming  is  proverbial : — 

All  hail  to  thee,  thou  gifted  son  '. 


lyClOOglC 


BEFKACTOEY  RHYMING. 


535 


Some  jears  ago  a  FreneL  speculator  found  hmiself  ruined  by 
a  sudden  collapse  in  the  stock-market  He  resolved  to  commit 
suicide,  but,  aa  he  was  a  connoisseur  in  momimeatal  literature, 
he  de«de«i  first  to  compose  his  own  epitaph.  The  first  line — a 
very  fine  one — terminated  with  the  word  triffmpke.  To  this, 
search  as  he  might,  he  could  find  no  rhyme,  and  he  could  not 
bring  himself  to  sacrifice  his  beloved  line  Time  passed,  finding 
him  still  in  search  of  his  rhyme,  assisted  by  a.  number  of 
benevolent  friends,  but  all  in  vain.  One  dayapromising  s] 
lation  presented  itself;  he  seized  the  opportunity  and  r 
his  fortaoe. 

The  rhyme  so  zealously  sought  has  at  length  been  found,  and 
the  epitaph  completed.    Here  it  is: — 

AtWniire  que  de  6oi  la  v^tuflt*  triomphe. 


Mourir  a  pins  d'attrait 


[Hard  manDgompheF 

ignifying  "  who  has  but 


a  single  tooth." 


To  get  a  rhyme  in  English  for  tbe  word  month  was  quite  a 
matter  of  interest  with  curious  people  years  ago,  and  somebody 
made  it  out  oi  forced  it  by  maicing  a  quatrain,  in  which  a  lisp- 
ing little  girl  is  described  as  saying; — 

1  oan  get  a  rhyme  for  a  month. 

1  can  thay  it  now,  I  thed  it  wunth ! 

Another  plan  was  to  twist  the  numeral  one  into  an  ordinal. 
For  instance: — 


A  parallel  li 


"  Top  can't,"  says  Tom  to  lisping  Bill, 
"Find  any  rhyme  for  month." 

"A  groat  mithtake,"  waa  Bill's  reply; 
"I'll  find  achjmo  at  0B(4." 


lyClOOglC 


REFRACrORY 


Among  our  numeronB  English  rhymea, 

They  aay  there's  none  to  month; 
I  tried  and  failed  a  hundred  times, 

But  fluoeeeded  the  hundred  and  onth. 

But  these  are  hardly  fah-.  The  rhyme  is  good,  but  the  Engiiah 
is  bad.  Christina  Bosetti  has  done  better  in  the  admirable 
book  of  nursery  rhymes  which  she  has  published  ucder  the 
title  of  Sinff-Sony : — 

How  many  weeks  in  a  month? 
Four,  as  the  anift  moon  runn'th— 

la  both  of  these  instances,  however,  the  rhymes  are  evasions 
of  the  real  issue.  The  problem  is  not  to  make  a  word  by  com- 
pouading  two,  or  distorting  one,  but  to  find  a  word  ready-made, 
in  our  unabridged  dictionaries  that  will  rhyme  properly  to 
month.  We  believe  there  is  none.  Nor  is  tbere-a  feir  rhyme 
to  the  word  silver,  nor  to  spirit,  nor  to  ddmney.  Horace  Smith, 
one  of  the  authors  of  the  Rejected  Addresses,  once  attempted 
to  make  one  for  chimney  on  a  bet,  and  he  did  it  in  this  way  :— 


Another  dissyllabic  poser  is  liquid.     Mr.  C.  A.  Bristed  at- 
tempts to  meet  it  as  follows ; — 

After  imbibing  liquid. 


And  "Mickey  Rooney"  contributes  this:- 


lyGoogle 


RErBACTORY   RHYMING.  537 

Juat  tate  the  herb  called  ohiok-wead, 

Whioh  they  often  oure  the  Biek  wid. 

That's  a  daoent  rhyme  for  liquid. 

And  from  a  Mickey,  too. 

Some  one  haying  challenged  a  rhyme  for  carpet,  the  follow- 
ing "lines  to  a  pretty  barmaid"  were  elicited  in  response; — 

Sweet  maid  of  tho  inn, 
*Tis  surely  no  aia 
To  toast  aaoh  a  beautiful  bar  pet; 


Rhym. 


e  thus  fouad  for  window: — 

A  orualman  a  beetle  caught. 
And  to  the  wall  him  piDQod,  oh  I 
Then  said  the  beetle  to  the  crowd, 
"Thongh  I'm  stuck  up  I  am  not  proud," 
And  his  eoul  went  out  of  tho  window. 
Bold  Robin  Hood,  that  atoher  good. 
Shot  down  fat  bnok  and  Ihm  doe; 
Rough  Btorma  withstood  in  thiok  gceflnwo 
.  Nor  care  for  door  or  window. 


"Irish  Lim 


you 


ir  Garden. 

The  difficulty  with  porringer  has  thus  bee 

The  aecund  James  a  daughter  had, 
Too  fine  to  lick  a  porringer; 

He  sought  her  out  a  noble  lad, 
And  g!ivo  the  Prince  of  Orange  her. 

And  in  this  stanza ; — 


lyClOOglC 


These  for  orange  and  lemon: — 

I  gave  mj  darling  child  a  lemon. 

Thai  lately  grew  ita  fragrant  stem  on ; 

And  next,  to  give  her  pleasure  more  range 

I  offered  her  a  juiaj  orange, 

And  nuts — she  craoked  them  in  the  donr-binge. 

And  many  an  Hi,  grim. 
And  travel-worn  pilgriiO, 

has  traveled  far  out  of  his  way  before  succeeding  with  widow  :— 

Who  tronld  not  always  as  he's  bid  do, 
Should  never  think  to  wed  a  widow. 


Pickwick  loquitur: — 

Sinoe  of  this  suit  I  now  am  rid,  0, 
Ne'er  again  I'll  lodge  with  a  widow ! 

AmoDg  the  stubborn  propar  names  are  Tijjperary  and 
Timbuctoo.  The  mjst  Buei.esBful  eftort  to  match  tl  e  litter  was 
an  impromptu  Vj  a  j,entl  m-ui  who  1  ad  accomf  an  ed  a  ladj 
home  from  church  one  Sunday  evt-uing  and  who  found  h  r 
hymn-book  is  hi  picket  next  moming  He  roturnel  it  with 
these  lines  ;— 

My  dear  and  muob  respected  Jenny, 
Yoa  must  have  thougbt  me  quite  a  ninry 

For  oarrying  off  your  hymn-book  to 
My  house.     Had  you  thoughls  visionary. 

Had  flown  with  it  to  limbuctoo? 

Another  attempt  runs  thus: — 

I  went  a  hunting  on  the  plains. 
The  plains  of  Timbuctoo; 

And  he  was  a  slim  buck  too. 

An  unattainable  rhyme  might  he  sought  for  Euxine,  had 
not  Byron  said— 


lyGoogle 


REFEACTORr 

The   following  is   from  Tom  Moore's 


A  request  for  a  rhyme  for  Mackonochie  elicited  numerous 
replies,  one  of  which,  in  reference  to  a  charitable  occasion, 
begins  thus;-— 

Who,  folk  bestowing 

Their  alms,  when  o'erflowing. 

The  coffer  unlooks? 
Pingera  upou  u  key 
Placing,  Msflkonoohie 

Canning's  amusing  little  extravaganza,  with  which  evqvjbody 
is  familiar,  beginning: — 

Whene'er  with  haggard  eyes  I  riew 
The  dungeon  that  I'm  rotting  in, 
I  think  of  the  ooinpanions  true 
Who  studied  with  me  at  tlia  U- 

niTersity  of  Gottingen, 

has  been  parodied  a  hundred  times ;  but  it  is  itself  a  parody  of 
Pindar,  whose  fashion  of  dividing  words  in  his  odes .  all  students 
of  the  classics  have  abundant  occasion  to  remember.  The  last 
stanza  was  appended  by  William  Pitt, — a  fact  not  generally 
known : — 


Sun,  moo 

n,  a 

dthon 

n  world,  ad 

Thatk 

andpr 

est 

Here  doo 

ned 

tofltar 

e 

Of  these  fantastic  rhymes,  Richard  Harris  Barham,  has  given 
us  the  finest  examples  in  the  language,  in  his  celebrated  "  In- 
goldsby  Legends."  In  the  legend  "  Look  at  the  Clock,"  we 
have  this : — 


lyClOOglC 


540  EEFEACTORY   RHrUlNO. 

This  from  "Tho  Ghost":— 

"And,  being  of  a  temper  somewhat  warm. 

Would  now  and  then  seiiie  upon  aioall  oooaeion, 
A  atiek  or  stool,  or  anyfhing  that  ronnd  did  lie, 
And  baste  bar  lord  and  miuter  most  confouadedly." 

In  the  "Tragedy"  w9  have  one  even  fnore  whimsical  and 
comical : — 

"  The  poor  little  Page,  too,  bimaelf  got  no  quarter,  but 

Was  served  the  same  nay. 

And  was  found  the  next  day 
With  his  heels  in  the  air,  and  his  head  in  tho  wiitet-butl." 

BjroQ  has  more  than  matched  any  of  these  in  completeness 
of  rhyme  and  estent,  if  ve  may  call  it  so,  of  rhyming  surface, 
and  niatohed  even  himself  in  acidity  of  cynicism,  in  his 
couplet  1 — 


Pnneh  has  some  very  funny  samples  of  eoceatric  rhymes,  of 
which  the  best  is  one  that  spells  out  the  final  word  of  a  couplet, 
the  last  letter  or  two,  making  so  many  syllahles  rhyme  with  the 
ending  word  of  the  preceding  line.     Thus: — 

"Me  drunk!  the  eobblpr  cried  the  dsTil  tronbla  jou. 

You  want  to  kick  up  a  ble^t  row 

I've  just  returned  from  a  teetotal  party. 

Twelve  on  ua  jammed  in  a  spring  o-a-r-t. 

The  man  as  leotnrel  now  was  dtunkj  why  bless  je. 


Twenty-five  years  or  more  a^  m  Braton,  Monday  was  the 
gathering  time  for  TJniversihst  clergymen,  Tompkins'  book 
store  being  the  place  of  rendezvous  At  these  unions,  King, 
Chapin,  Hosea  Ballon,  Whittemoie  and  other  notabilities,  were 
pretty  sure  to  be  present;  and  as  it  was  immediately  after  the 
graver  labors  of  the  Sabbath,  the  parsons  were  apt  to  be  in  an 
unusually  frisky  condition. 


lyGoogle 


BEPE'ACrOEr  RHYMING.  541 

Chapin,  ordinarily,  is  of  reticent  habit ;  but  when  the  company 
is  congenial,  and  he  is  in  eshilarant  mood,  his  wonderful  flow 
of  language  and  quick  perception  make  him  a  companion  rarely 
equalled  for  wit  aftd  repartee.  On  one  occasion,  when  King  and 
Chapin,  and  a  dozen  other  dei^jrmen  were  at  Tompkias's,  as  was 
their  wont,  Uhapin  began  to  rhyme  upon  the  names  of  those 
present.  Without  a  moment's  hesitation,  he  ran  off  the  name 
of  each,  rhyming  it  in  verse,  to  the  huge  del^ht  of  the  com- 
pany^ Finally,  ailer  exhausting  that  list,  the  names  of  absent 
clergymen  were  given  to  the  ready  poet,  and  there  was  not  a 
allele  failure.     At  last  a  clergyman  said : — 

"I  cao- give  you  a  name,  Brother  Chapin,  to  which  you 
oannbt  make  a  rhyme." 

"Well,  what  is  it?" 

"Brother  Brimblecomb." 

Without  a  moment's  pause,  Chapin  said: — 

"  There  was  a  man  in  our  town, 
Hia  name — tiiey  Bulled  it  Brimbleoomb ; 


Butler's  facility  in  overeoming  stubborn  words  i, 
For  instance; — 


Coleridge,  on  the  eve  of  his  departure  from  Gottingen,  being 
«queated  by  a  student  of  the  same  class  in  the  university  to 
rrite  in  hia  Stammhich,  or  album,  complied  as  follows: — 

Wc  both  attended  the  aame  enllege, 
Where  sheets  of  paper  we  did  blur  maaj; 

And  now  we're  going  to  sport  our  knowledge, 
In  England  I,  and  you  in  Sermanj. 

Father  Prout,  in  his  polyglot  praise  of  rum  punch,  says;^ 

Doth  love,  young  chiel,  ono'e  hosom  ruffle? 
Would  any  feel  ripe  for  a  acuffie  ? 
Tbe  simplest  plan  is  juBt  to  take  a 
Well  stiffened  can  of  old  Jamaica. 


lyGoogle 


542                                 REFRAOrORT  EHYMmO. 

We  parted  by  the  gate  in  Jnne, 

Tliat  soft  and  balmy  month, 

Beneath  the  sweetly  beaming  moon, 

&ui  (wonth— hunth— suntli— bunth-I  can't  find 

a  rhyme  to  mon 

Ysars  were  to  pass  ere  wa  atould  moeti 

A  wide  and  j-awning  gulf 

Wbile  (ulf— 8ulf-dulf— mnlf-atuok  again;  I  oa 

't  get  any  rhy 

gulf,     rm  ia  a  gulf  myself). 

Oh,  how  I  dreaded  in  my  soal 

To  part  from  oiy  sweet  nymph, 

W^ile  years  should  their  long  seaeans  roll 

to  let  it  go  at  t 

BeDeith  my  fortune's  sleni  decree 

My  lonely  BtjMt  sunk, 

Tor  a  weaty  soul  was  mine  to  be 

And  (bunk— dni.ii— runk-sk— ttat  will  never  do 

in  the  world). 

She  buried  her  dear,  lovely  face 

Within  hor  ttiure  eoarf. 

She  knew  I'd  tako  the  wretchedness 

As  well  as  (palf—Bar£—darf— half-and-half;  tha 

won't  answer  e 

0,  I  had  loved  her  many  years, 

rioved  her  tor  herself; 
I  iored  her  for  ber  tender  fears. 

And  also  for  her  (welf— nelf— helf-— polf;  no,  no;  not  for  her  pelf)- 

I  took  between  my  hands  her  .head, 

How  sweet  her  lips  did  pouch  I 
I  kissed  her  lovingly  and  said : 

(Boaoh— mouche— lonohe— ouch ;  not  a  bit  of  it  did  I  say  ouch !) 

I  sorrowfully  wrang  her  hand. 

My  tears  they  did  escape. 
My  sorrow  I  could  not  command,. 

And  I  was  but  a  (sape  — dapa— fap« — ape ;  well,  perhaps  I  did  feel  like 
an  ape). 
I  gave  to  her  a  fond  adieu. 

Sweet  pnpil  of  love's  sobool; 
r  told  her  r  would  e'er  be  tme, 

And  always  be  a  (dool— sool— mool— fool ;  since  I  eoniB.  to  think  oF  it,  I 
was  a  fool,  for  she  fell  in  lore  with  another  fellow  before  I  WM 


lyGoogle 


BEFEACTORY 


54?, 


Hood's  Nbctwrnal  Sketch  presents  a  remarkable  example  ot 
la  diJ/lcuUi  vaincue.  Most  bards  Bad  it  sufficiently  difficult  to 
obtain  one  rhyming  word  at  the  end  of  a  line;  but  Hood 
secure  three,  witb  an  ease  whicb  is  aa  graceful  as  it  is  sur- 
prising ; — 

Evan  has  coma;  and  from  the  dark  park,  tark 
The  signal  of  the  Betting  ann— one  guu  ! 

To  go  and  see  the  Drury  Lane  Dana  slaiH, 

Or  hear  Othello's  jaaious  doubt  apout  oot, 

Or  Macbeth  raving  at  that  shada-made  blade, 

Donjing  to  hia  f™itio  olnteh  much  auoh; 

Or  elaa  to  aao  Ducrow,  with  wide  tJda,  aliide 

Jonr  horses  aa  no  other  man  can  spun; 

Or  in  the  small  Olympio  pit,  sit  split. 

Laughing  at  Lisbon,  while  you  quii  bis  phis. 

Anon  night  comes,  and  with  her  wings  bring!  things 

Snob  as,  witb  bis  poetie  tongue,  Young  sung  ; 

The  gas  np  blaies  with  its  bright  while  tight. 

And  paraljdo  watchmen  prowl,  howl,  growl, 

About  the  streets,  aud  lake  up  Pall-Moll  Sal, 

Who,  tniating  to  bar  nightlj  joba,  robs  fobs. 

Now  thioTes  do  enter  for  jour  Bash,  smash,  crasb. 

Past  drowsy  Ciiarley,  in  a  deap  alcep,  craep, 

But,  frightened  by  policeman  B  S,  Use, 

And  whUe  they^re  going,  whisper  low,  "No  go !" 

Now  puss,  while  folks  are  in  tiolr  beds,  treads  leada. 

And  sleepers  gramblo,  Drat  that  cat! 

Who  in  the  gutter  caterwauls,  squalla,  mauls 

Some  feliae  foe,  and  screams  in  ahrill  ill  will. 

How  bulla  of  Baahan,  of  a 


ihildiab  drean 


aud  with  a 


Georgy,  or  Cbarlas,  or  Bilty,  willy  nilly ; 

But  nnrae-maid,  in  a  night-maie  rest,  ehest-presied, 

Draameth  of  one  of  her  old  flamaa,  James  Gnomes, 

And  that  she  heora— what  iiith  is  n^an'a— Ann's  bann 

And  hia,  from  Reverend  Mr.  Kice,  twice,  thrice; 

White  ribbons  flourish,  and  a  stout  shout  out. 

That  upward  goes,  shows  Rose  knows  Ihosa  beaux'  w 


lyGoogle 


VALENTINES. 


Vakntine», 


.  Th^  foUomng  loYeJetter,  dated  in  1661,  was  sent  by  Philip, 
second  Ear]  of  Chesterfield,  to  Lady  Ilus.sell: — 

t  cold  eeaeon  doth  afford  notbiDg  that 
a  npon  tbut  I  fain  wonld  know  the 
truth  of,  which  is,  that  I  am  extremEly  in  lose  with  you.  Pray  let  mo 
know  if  it  be  true  or  no,  ainoe  I  am  certain  that  nothing  but  jourself  can 
rightly  infurm  me;  for  if  jou  intend  to  ueo  me  farorably,  and  do  think  I 
am  in  lore  with  yon,  I  most  ceitaiqly  ate  bo  ;  bnt  if  jou  intend  to  reeeiFo 
me  coldly,  and  do  not  believe  that  I  am  in  love,  I  also  am  sure  thnt  I  am 
not;  therefore  let  me  entreat  you  bi  put  me  outofadoubt  which  mokea 
the  greatest  oonoerQ  of, 

Dear  Madam,  your  moat  obedient  fwtliful  servant, 


(It  k  the  part  of  a.  skillful  general  to  si 


WRITTEN   IN 

Dear  girl,  if  thou  hadst  been  leas  fair, 

Or  I  had  been  more  bold. 
The  burning  worda  I  now  would  write. 

Ere  this,  my  tongne  had  told. 


And  writea  the  words  it  dare  not  apeak 
CYPTOGRAPniC   CORRESPONDENCE. 

A  lady  wrote  to  a  gentleman  thus; — 

■'I  shall  he  much  obliged  to  you,  aa  reading  alone  engages  ray  atlenlion 
nlprcaent,  ifyou  willlendmeany  oneof  the  £;p(l  volumes  of  the  Spec- 
tator.    I  hope  you  will  eseuse  tMs   freedom,  but  for  a  winter's  eceiimg  I 

me  for  the  time  to  come." 

The  words  successively  italicized  convey  the  secret  invitation. 


lyGoogle 


VALENTINES. 


MACAViAY'S   VALENTINE. 


The  following  valentine  from  Lord  Macaulay  to  the  Hon. 
Mary  C.  Stanhope,  daughter  of  Lord  and  Lady  Mahon,  1851, 
is  worthy  of  being  preserved  for  the  sake  aa  much  of  its  author 
as  ofits  own  merits:— 


Hail,  da;  of  musiu,  da;  of  love  t 
On  enrth  beloir,  und  air  itbore. 
Id  air  the  turtle  focdl;  moanB, 

On  onith  tfae  pustmaD  toils  along. 
Bent  double  bj  Iiuge  bales  of  song. 
■Where,  rioh  with  many  a  gorgeouB  dye, 
Blaiea  all  Cnpid'a  heraldry— 
Myrtlea  and  roses,  dovea  and  epnriowa. 


Thot 


uble-i 


Unnumbeied  In 


■nine  h' 


foung 


indfa 


With  oheefca  high  fluahed,  and  tiearta  lou 
Await  tho  tender  tinnual  greeting. 
The  loveliest  lass  of  all  is  mine- 
Good  morrow  to  my  Valentino  ! 

Good  a 


n  good  m 


Bntle  child;  and  then, 

.lowing  etill  good  morro 
Without  one  oload  of  strife  or  sorrow. 
And  when  tlie  god  to  whom  wo  pay 
In  jest  our  homagea  to-daj 
Shall  come  to  claim  no  more  in  jeat, 
Hia  rightful  empire  o'er  thy  breast. 


nay  hia 


eotbi 


And  if  a  tear  his  power  ooafess. 
Be  it  a  tear  of  happineea. 
It  ahal!  be  so.     The  Mase  displays 
The  future  to  her  votary's  gaie: 
Prophfltio  range  my  bosom  awella — 
I  taate  the  oake— I  hear  the  bells  [ 
Prom  Conduit  street  the  close  array 
Of  chariots  barricades  tho  way 
K  46* 


lyClOOglC 


54l5  VALENTINES. 

To  where  I  see,  wifh  oufstretohed  haad. 
Majestic  thy  great  kinsman  stand,* 
And  lialf  unbend  Uis  brow  of  pride, 
Ae  welcoming  so  fair  ahride; 
Gay  favors,  thick  as  flaliee  of  enow, 
Brighten  8l-  George's  portico: 
Within  1  see  tlie  chancel's  pale. 
The  orange  flowers,  the  BrusselB  veil. 
The  paga  on  which  those  fingers  white. 
Still  tremblitig  from  the  awful  rito. 
For  the  last  time  shall  faintly  traoo 
The  name  of  Stauhope's  noble  race. 
X.see  kind  fiuies  round  thee  pressing, 
I  hear  kind  voices  whisper  blessing; 
And  with  those  voices  mingles  mine- 
All  good  attend  mj  Valentine  ! 
Si.  Valenline'ii  Day,  1S61.  T.  B.  MACiULiT. 

Very  tender  are    Burns'   verses  to  his    ladio   loves.     For 
instance; — 

Oh  I  were  I  in  the  wildest  waste, 

Sae  blaok  and  bare,  sae  black  and  bare, 

If  thou  wert  there,  if  thou  itart  there ; 
Or,  were  I  monaroh  of  the  globo, 

Wi'  thee  to  reign,  wi'  thee  to  reign; 
The  brightest  jewel  in  mj  orown 

Wad  be  my  queen,  wad  ha  my  c[uaod. 


ALLITERATION. 

0  du  Dido,  die  du  da  den,  der  den,  den  du  llobst  liebt,  lieb  'o  liebste  des 
Freundes,  don  Frennd  dee  Preundes,  des  Frenndes  wogen.f 

[0  you  Dido,  you  who,  him,  who  him  yon  love,  loves,  love  0  dearest  of 
the  tHend,  the  friend's  friend,  for  the  friend's  sake.] 


len  IBten  MSci  Wer  gfsetiten  WarjiungepfiiW,  diis  oiemi 

on  the  16th  of  Mai'th  the  here  placed  wamifie-poBt,  t 
«  a  reward  of  Ten  DollarB.) 


lyGoogle 


VALENTINES. 


I  LOVER  TO   HIS    BWEBTHEART. 


Your  face. 

First  bout, 
Miuo  ej.«. 

your  («ngne, 
then  dTe'w, 

your  wit, 
EO  sharp, 
then  hit, 
my  heart. 

Miue  eye; 

To  like, 
Your  fa™. 

Doth  loud, 

Diiae  ear, 
to  learn, 
your  toueus. 
doth  teaoh. 

your  wit, 
doth  move 

Yonr  face, 

With  beams, 
Doth  binO, 

Mine  oje. 

your  tongue, 

with  BOQUd, 

doth  charm, 

your  wi^ 
with  art,~ 

doth  rule. 

Miuo  eje. 

With  life. 
Your  faoe, 

Doth  feed. 

mine  ear, 
with  hope, 
your  tongue, 
doth  feaat, 

my  heart, 
with  skill, 
your  wit, 
doth  fill. 

The  lines  may  be  read  either  from  left  to  right,  or  from  above 
downwards.     They  may  also  be  read  in  various  directions. 


CAEBIAO   EPPU8I0N. 


Somebody  named  John  Birchall  wrote  the  following  lines  in 
1684  with  his  "heart's  blood": — 


lyClOOglC 


VALENTINES. 


MAC  ABO  NIC   VALENTINE. 

Beiflt  und  sinn  piioh  beilgan  ijbor 
Voas  BU  dire  dae  ioli  Sie  liebe ! 
Dos  hers  que  voub  so  lightl;  epnrn 
To  jou  UDd  sie  alleiD  nUl  turn 
UnbarmherBig — pourquoi  eoorn 
Mon  cceur  with  li>vo  and  angnieh  torn? 
Crojea  sous  das  mj  despMr 
Votre  bonheur  can  swell  or  faire? 
SehQiiheit  kana  niobt  cruel  seiu 
Mepris  iet  keine  macbt  divine. 
Then,  oh  then,  it  can't  be  thine. 
Gldube  das  mine  lom  ia  tiae, 
ChaageleBS,  deep  wie  Himmel'a  bine— 
Que  I'ainour  that  now  I  swear 
Zu  Dir  Ewigkeit  I'll  bear. 
Gtaubedas  tbeigentle  rays 
Born  and  noariabed  in  thj  gaie 
Sur  mon  cteur  will  ever  dwell 
Commo  &  I'inslaot  when  thej  foil— 
Meohante !  that  yon  know  full  well. 

George  Kgby,  Earl  of  Bristol,  one  of  tte  most  graceful 
writers  of  the  8eyeut«enth  Century,  ia  credited  with  this: — 

Fair  Arohabella,  to  thy  eyes. 

That  flame  juat  bluahea  in  the  skies. 

Each  nobla  heart  doth  aneriBee. 


In 

ny  nnkn 

wn  higbw 

ay  breaat. 

The  lodging 

f  each  00 

nmon  gua 

Bn 

<'  heart, 

Wo 

unded  by 

ove,  not 

art. 

'I'h 

new  a  fori 

B« 

pletised  t 

smile,  an 

then  I  li 

e; 

Hn 

if  a  frow 

n, a  death 

you  give. 

Vr. 

■wbieh  it 

to  grieve. 

Tfl 

if  it  be  decreed  I  fall, 

Qr 

□tbnton 

0  boon,  on 

boon  ia  a 

1:- 

Th 

t  you  wo 

Id  me  JO 

r  martyr 

all. 

lyGoogle 


VALENTINES.  549 

A  COLOEED    man's   LOVE-LETTTER. 

A  colored  man  living  in  Detroit  had  long  admired  a  colored 
widow  in  a  neighboring  street,  but  being  afraid  to  reveal  his 
passion,  went  to  a  white  man  and  aaked  him  to  write  the  lady 
a  letter  asking  her  hand  in  marriage.  The  friend  wrote,  telliug 
the  woman  in  a  few  brief  lines  that  the  tdze  of  her  feet  was  the 
talk  of  the  neighborhood,  and  asking  her  if  she  coulda't  pare 
them  down  a  little.  The  name  of  the  colored  man  was  signed, 
and  he  was  to  call  on  her  for  an  answer.  Subsequently  the  wri- 
ter of  the  letter  met  the  negro  .limping  along  the  street,  and  asked 
him  what  the  widow  said.  The  man  showed  him  a  bloodshot 
eye,  a  scratched  nose,  a  lame  leg,  and  a  spot  on  the  scalp  where  a 
handful  of  wool  had  been  Tiolenlly  jerked  out;  and  he  answered 
in  solemn  tones;  "She  didn't  say  nuffin,  ao'  I  didn't  stay  dar 
mor'n  a  minute  1 " 


UNPUBLISHED    VEKSES   OP   I'HOMAS    MOORK. 
Bright  leaf,  when  storms  thy  bloom  shall  wither. 
Oh,  By  for  calm  and  shelter  hlthor; 
And  I  will  prize  thy  tints  us  trniy 
As  when  in  Spring  tliey  blossom  newly. 
Bright  loaf,  nhen  etoms  tby  blooms  skull  wither, 
Oh,  fly  for  calm  and  shelter  hither. 


Sweet  m 


hjle  hope  and  raptnre  cheer  thee, 


gain  to  waken  ! 

SEEEHADE. 
Sing  again  tlie  aong  yon  snng 


Sing  the  song,  and  sing  it  o'er. 
Though  I  know  that  nevarmore 
Will  it  seem  the  aong  you  sung 
When  we  vrere  together  young. 


lyGoogle 


■TALENTINES. 


PETITIONS. 


THE  MAIDS  AND   1 

The  foHowing  petition,  signed  by  sixteen  maids  of  Charks- 
ton,  South  Carolina,  was  presented  to  the  Governor  of  that 
province  in  March,  1733,  "the  day  of  the  feast"; — 


To  His  Bxoellehcv  Goveknoe  Johnson. 

The  humble  petition  of  all  the  Maids  whose  names  are  under- 
written 1 —  Whereas,  We  the  humble  petitioners  are  at  present  in 
a  very  melancholy  disposition  of  mind,  considering  how  all  the 
bachelors  are  blindly  captivated  by  widows,  and  our  more  youth- 
fill  charms  thereby  neglected:  the  consequence  of  this  our  re- 
quest is,  that  your  EseellenL'y  will  for  the  future  order  that  no 
widow  shall  presume  to  marry  any  young  man  till  the  maids  are 
provided  for;  or  else  to  pay  each  of  them  a  fiue  for  satisfaction, 
for  invading  our  liberties;  and  likewise  a  fine  to  he  laid  on  all 
such  bachelors  as  shall  be  married  to  widows.  The  great  dis- 
advantage  it  is  to  us  maids,  is,  that  the  widows,  hy  their  forward 
carriages,  do  snap  up  the  young  men;  and  have  the  vanity  to 
think  their  merits  beyond  oure,  which  is  a  great  imposition 
upon  us  who  ought  to  have  the  preference. 

.This  is  humbly  recommended  to  your  Excellency's  con- 
sideration, and  hope  you  will  prevent  any  farther  insults. 

And  we  poor  Maids  as  in  duty  hound  will  ever  pray. 

P.  S. — ^I,  being  the  oldest  maid,  and  therefore  most  con- 
cerned, do  think  it  proper  to  be  the  messenger  to  your  Ex- 
cellency in  behalf  of  my  fellow  subscribers. 


An  autograph  of  Madame  de  Maintenon  has  recently  been 
discovered  at  Chateau-Guinon,  the  history  of  which  is  curious. 
A  worthy  priest  of  Ouiseaux,  a  small  Commmne  of  La  Brasse, 
desiring  to  repair  his  church,  which  was  becoming  dilapidated, 
had  the  happy  idea  of  addressing  hunself  to  Madame  de  Mainte- 
non, whose  charitable  bounty  was  upon  every  tongue.     Not 


lyClOOglC 


SONNETS.  551 

being  in  the  habit  of  correspoading  with  the  great,  the  atjle  of 
hia  supphcation  cost  him  muoh  thought,  hut  at  last  he  produced 
a  memorial  eommeneing  as  follows : — 

"  Madame :— Tou  enjoy  the  reputation,  which  I  doubt  not  is 
well  founded,  of  according  your  favora  to  all  who  solicit  them. 
I  therefore  venture  to  appeal  to  your  bounty  in  behdf  of  the 
church  of  Ouiseaiis,"  etc. 

The  exalted  lady  bad  no  sooner  cast  her  eyes  upon  the  poor 
priest's  unlucky  esordium,  than  she  flew  into  a  rage,  and  had 
him  thrown  into  prison,  whence  it  was  with  great  difGculty  that 
his  ftiends  procured  a  release.  The  story  seems  apocryphal, 
but  the  memorial  bears  the  following  indorsement  in  the  hand- 
writing of  Madame  de  Maintenon ; — The  lieutenant  of  police 
is  ordered  to  issue  a  lettre-de-oachet  against  the  signer  of  this 
petition. 

3onn«s. 

.WRITINS  A  SONNET. 


Doria,  the  fair,  a  m 

Quet  needs  m 

ust  have ; 

I  ne'er  waa  ao  p« 

t  to  't  before 

—a  Sonnet! 

Whj  fonrteen  yo 

soa  must  be 

pent  upon  it; 

ered  the  first  stave. 

Yot  I  ehaU  no'or  fi 

drhjmeaen 

ough  bj-  half. 

Said  I,  and  fouQ 

dmjaelfi'th 

midst  o-  the  second. 

If  twioa  four  rer 

us  nele  but 

airij  reckoned 

I  shuuld  turn  biiok 

oa  th'  harde 

t  part  and  langb. 

Thus  fat  with  g 

od  success  I 

hink  rve  scribbled. 

And  of  the  twio 

seven  linos  hare  clean  got  o'er  tea. 

Courage!  another 

11  fiaiah  the  first  triplet, 

Thauketotbee, 

MuBe,mrwo 

k  begins  to  s&orton. 

There's  airteenliii 

oa  got  throu 

h  driblet  by  driblet: 

■Tisdone!  oonn 

r  warrant  there's,  fourteen 

IN  A  FASHIONABLE  CHUEOH. 
The  aic  ia  faint,  jet  sti!!  the  crowds  preaa  in 
With  Btir  of  aUka  and  under-flow  of  talk 
That  fyis  from  lipa  of  ladies  oe  the;  walk, 
Bre  yet  the  dainty  service  doth  begin ! 
Ahmet  the  very  organ's  glorious  din 


lyGoogle 


Floats  nitb  tbe  incen^ -stream  good  soula  to  wluj 
0  God,  that  Bpak'st  of  old  from  Sinai'a  bron  1 
And  2hou  that  laid'st  the  lempeal  with  a  word  I 
la  this  Thj  worship?     Coiob  amongst  us  dow 
With  all  Thj  thundePE,  if  Thou  wouldat  be  beard. 
So  tyraanouB  is  this  weigbt  of  pageantry, 
Almost,  we  ory,  "(Jive  back  Gothaemane!" 

THE   PEOXr  SAINT. 
Eaeh  for  himself  must  do  his  Master's  work. 

Or  at  his  peril  leave  it  all  undone;] 
Witness  tbe  fate  of  one  who  sought  to  shirk 

The  Sanotuary  servioe  yet  nould  shun 
The  penalty.     A  mas  of  earthly  aims 

(So  runs  the  apologue,)  whoae  pious  spouse 
Would  oft  remind  him  of  the  Cbureh's  olaims. 

Still  answered  thus,  "  Go,  thou,  and  pay  our  vows 
Foe  tliee  and  me!"     Now,  when  at  Peter's  gate 

The  twain  together  bad  arrived  at  laat. 
He  let  the  woman  In,-  then  to  her  mate. 

Shutting  the  door,  "  Thou  hast  already  passed 
Byptnxg,"  said  tbe  Saiot— "just  in  the  way 

That  thou  on  oarth  was  wont  to  fast  and  pray." 


Tia  very  odd  that  poeta  should  suppose 

A  noseless  face  would  lack  poetio  grace. 
Noses  have  sympathy :  a  lover  knows 
Noses  are  always  totitlied  when  lips  are  ktsstng ; 
And  who  would  eare  to  kiss  where  nose  was  missin 
Wby,  what  would  bo  tbe  fragranoe  of  a  rose, 
And  where  would  be  our  mortal  means  of  telling  . 
Wbether  a  vile  or  wholesome  odour  iowe 
Around  ns,  if  we  owned  no  aenso  of  stoelling? 
I  know  a  nose,  a  nose  no  other  knows. 


Neath  starry  eyes,  c 


lyGoogle 


eea  pre- 


ted  by  a 


id  bold  emprise 
a,d  digestiQii  I 


it  of  filthy  pies 

Hath  made  full  many  a  xaan  to  quake  and  tremble, 
I'illing  his  stomaeh  nitb  djspeptie  sighs. 

Until  a,  huge  balloon  it  doth  resemble. 
Thus  do  our  lower  ports  impede  the  upper, 

And  muoii  the  brain's  good  works  molest  and  hinder. 
We  gorge  our  oerebellum  witii  bot  supper. 

And  burn,  with  drams,  our  Tisoera  to  a  cinder. 
Choosing  our  arruna  froto  Disease's  quiver. 

Till  man  in  misery  lives  to  loathe  his  lirer. 

HUMILITY, 
Fair,  soft  Humility,  so  seldom  seen. 
So  oft  despised  npon  this  little  earth. 
Counted  by  men  as  dross  of  nothing  worth. 
Though  in  the  sight  of  Mightiness  saprcme 
'Tis  hailed  and  welcomed  as  a  glorious  birth, 
Offspring  of  greatness,  beauty  perfeoted. 
And  yet  of  such  fragility  extreme. 
That  if  wo  oall  it  ours,  'tis  forfeited ; 
Named,  it  eseapes  us,  tbnfi  we  need  beware. 
When  with  the  Publican  we  plead  tlie  prayer, 
"A  sinner,  Lord,  be  merciful  to  me!" 
Our  hearts  do  not  say  softly,  "  I  thank  Thee, 
0  Lord,  for  this  sweet  grace,  Humility, 
Which  I  possess,  unlike  the  Pharisee." 

AVE  MARIA. 
Ave  Maria  1  'tis  the  evening  hymn 

Of  many  pilgrims  on  the  land  and  sea. 

Soon  as  the  day  withdraws,  and  two  or  three 
Faint  stars  are  burning,  all  whose  eyes  are  dim 
With  tears  or  watching,  all  of  weary  limb 


.find,  0  Virginl  life's 
at  nightfall,  when  th< 


Tune  my  fond  thoughts  to  thei 

And  from  all  bondage— sav 

Glad  of  my  liberty  as  Nc 

Seek  the  Madonna  most  ad 


first-beheld  ahov 


lyClOOglC 


CONrOEMITY  OP  £ 


(Honformiti!  of  ^tnm  to  ^ounH. 


ARTICULATE  IMITATION   OP  INARTICULATE 
Soft  is  the  etrain  when  sephyr'genHj  blowa, 
And  tlio  eutoath  eti^ani  in  emcotber  numboiB  flrnrs; 
But  wbeu  load  surges  laBh  fhs  sounding  abore, 

Pope  r  Msm^  mt  Orilicism, 
On  a  anddsn  open  fly, 
Witli  impetuous  recoil  and  jarring  sound, 
Tb'  infernal  doora,  and  on  tbair  hinges  graio 
Harah  thnnder. — Miltoh:  Paradise  Lost,  u. 
Grate  on  their  scrnDnel  pipes  of  wretotcd  straw. — Milton  :  Lyindnt, 
His  blood;  hand 
Snatched  two  unhappy  of  my  mnrtiBl  band, 

And  dashed  like  dogs  against  tha  atonj  floor.— PorE :  Horn.  Ody». 
The  Pilgrim  oft 
At  dead  of  night,  'mid  hia  orison,  henrs 
Aghast  the  voice  of  time,  diaparting  towara, 
Tnmbling  nil  preeipitons  down-dashed. 
Bottling  around,-  loud  thundering  to  the  moon. 

Dver;  Mviiis  b/ Some, 
What!  like  Sir  Richard,  rumbling,  rough,  and  fierce, 
With  arms,  and  George,  and  Brunswick,  crowd  the  verse, 
Eend  with  tremendous  sounds  your  ears  asunder. 
With  dram,  gnn,  trampet,  blunderbuas,  and  thunder? 
Thenalljonr  muse's  eefterwt  display: 
Let  Carolina  amooth  the  tuneful  lay, 
Lull  with  Amelia'a  liquid  name  the  nine, 
And  aweetly  flow  through  all  the  royal  line— Pope  :  Sat.  I. 

Remarkable  examples  are  affordect  by  Dryden's  Alexander's 
Feoii,  and  The  Beth  of  Edgar  A.  Poe. 

IMITATION   OP  TIME  AND   MOTION. 
When  the  merry  bella  ring  round. 


lyGoogle 


CONFORMITY  OP   6 


I  TO   SOUND. 


Dancing  in 

;autli  and  many  a  maid 
the  oheckered  shade.— Mil 

on;  L'AU^o. 

Up  ths  high  hill  h«  hoaxes  a  huge  round  atona ; 
The  huge  ronnd  etone,  resulting  with  a  bound, 
Thundars  impataous  down,  and  smokes  along  the  ground. 

Pope:  S«B.(Mys. 

Which  urgod,  and  labored,  and  forced  up  with  psin, 

Beooile  and  tolls  impebioua  down,  and  Bmoliea  along 

Dey 

the  plain. 
DEN :  ItKH-etivt. 

A  needlflSfl  Aleiandrina 
That,  like  n  wounded  En 

nds  the  song, 
ke,  drags  ila  alow  length  a 
Pops:  Eesa;/ 

ng. 
on  CHtmim. 

Hot  so  -when  swift  Camilla  scours  tie  plain, 

Flies  o'er  fh'  unbending  corn,  and  skim*,  along  the  main. 

Oft  on  a  plat  of  rising  gronnd 
I  hear  the  far-cfE  cbrfew  sound, 
Over  some  wide-Ttaterod  shorn. 
Swinging  slow  with  aulien-  roar.— MmrOK :  11  Peme^ 

The  well-known  hexameters  of  Virgil,  descriptive  respectively 
of  the  galloping  of  horses  over  a,  resoiindiug  plain,  and  of  tho 
heavy  blows  in  alternately  hammering  tte  metal  on  the  anvil, 
afford  good  examples, — the  dactylic,  of  rapidity,  the  spondaic, 
of  slowness. 

'-  I  t"  ana 


Qnadrupe-  {  dante  pu-  |  tiem 

Illi  Ln-  I  tflr  se- 1  se  mag-  [  ni 

IMITATION 


I  hraohia  |  ti 


angtJa  |  oampn 
^neirf,  Ti 
unt- — Maeid,  yj 


it  to  Ibro- 


The  line,  too,  labors,  and  the  words  move  alow,  4o.— Pope  :  Ess.  on  OyHicim 
He  through  the  tbiokeal  of  the  throng  gan  threke.— CniccER:  Knight's  Tali 
And  Btrajna  from  hard-bound  hrains  six  lines  a  year. — Pope  i  Sal.  Frag. 
Part  huge  of  bulk. 
Wallowing,  unwieldy,  enornious  in  their  gait. 
Tempest  the  ocean,— Milton  i  Paradite  Lost,  yii. 
He  name,  and  with  him  Eve,  more  loath,  though  flrat 
To  0^4  disoountenanced  both,  and  discomposed. 

MUAOHi    FataSiae  Loa,  X. 
So  he  Ti\Qi  diffloulty  and  lajior  hard 
Moved  on,  with  difficulty  and  labor  he. — MiLTOH:  JtroJiSf  Zosi,  ii 


lyGoogle 


556  PAMILIAE  QUOTATIONS  PROM  UNFAMILIAR  SOITKCES. 


jFamiUar  Quotations  from  Unfamiliar 
Sources. 

No  Cross,  no  Grown. 
Tollo  cruoem,  qui  vis  auforro  ooronnm. 

St.  Paulihcs,  Bishop  oflTols, 


Corporations  have  no  souls. 

A  corporation  aggregate  of  many  is  invisible,  immortal,  and  vests  or 

in  intendment  and  eonsidcration  of  tho  law.     They  oannot  commit  treasc 

Dor  be  outlaned,  nor  exoomuiunicatij,  for  Iheij  Aace  no  aaiiU,  neither  c 

they  appear  in  person,  bnt  hy  attorney. — Cok^a  Jleporta,  Tol.  s.  p.  32. 

Quern  Deus  vull  perdere  prins  dementat. 

For  those  whom  Glod  to  min  has  designed, 
He  fita  fo[  (ate  and  first  destroys  their  mind. 

DnrDES :  Hind  and  Pander. 

Men  wre  hut  children  of  a  larger  growth; 

Our  appetilea  as  apt  to  ehange  as  theirs. 
And  l\ill  aa  craving  too,  and  full  as  Fain. 

Dbyden;  Allfor  Love,bi.  1. 

Welcoma  the  coming,  speed  the  parting  guest. 


More  worship  the  rising  than  tJte  setting  sun. 

PoMPKV  TO  SviLi:  Plulareh'a  LSeet. 

Incidis  in  Scillam,  cupiejis  vitare  Charybdim. 

Philippb  GilTLTiEB!  AlscaBdrett, 

Mistory.  is  philosophy  teaching  hi/  example. 

DiONIEIDS  OF    HAI:ICARHAgBlra. 


lyGoogle 


PAMILIAE   Qn 


PROM   UNFAMILIAR   SOURCES.    557 


%  Jewel. 

In  the  search  for  the  aoiarce  of  femUiar  quotaticins,  none 
appears  to  have  so  completely  bafBed  patient  seekers  aa  the 
phrase  "Consistency  is  a  jewel."  Several  years  ago  a  per- 
plexed scholar  offered  a  handsome  reward  for  the  discovery 
of  its  origin.  Not  till  quite  recently,  however,  has  the,  clainx 
been  set  up  ttat  the  original  was  found  in  the  "  Ballad  of 
Jolly  Bohyn  Roughhead,'"  which  is  preserved  in  "Murtagh's 
I  of  Ancient  English  and  Scottish  Ballads."  The 
1  which  it  ocours  is  the  following : — 

Tush,  tush,  my  Jossie,  such  thonghta  resign. 

Comparisons  artToruel; 
Pina  pictures  suit  in  frames  as  fine. 


Cleanliness  neoit  to  Godlmess. 
The  origin  of  the  proverb,  "  Cleanliness  is  next  to  godli- 
ness," has  been  the  subject  of  extended  investigation.  Bart- 
lett's  "  Famihar  Quotations"  attributes  .  the  phrase  to  E«v. 
John  Wesley ;  but  as  this  prominent  Methodist  clergyman  uses 
this  sentence  in  his  sermons  as  a  quotation  from  some  other 
work,  it  has  been  suggested  that  further  search  is  requisite. 
Rev.  Dr.  A.  S.  Bettelheimer,  of  Richmond,  Va.,  asserts  that 
he  baa  discovered  this  maxim  in  an  abstract  of  rel^ous  prin- 
ciples cont^ned  in  aa  old  commentary  on  the  Book  of  Isaiah. 
Thus  the  practical  doctrines  of  religion  are  resolved  into  careful- 
ness, vigorousness,  guiltlessness,  abstemiousness  and  cleanliness. 
And  cleanUness  is  next  to  godliness,  which  is  next  to  holiness. 

He'g  a  brick. 

An  Eastern  prince  visited  the  ruler  of  a  neighboring  country, 

and  after  viewing  various  objects  worthy  of  attention,  asked  to 

see  the   fortifications.     He  was  shown   the  troops  with  this 

remark — "These  are  my  fortifications;  every  man  is  a  brick," 


lyGoogle 


558   FAMILIAR  QUOTATIONS   FB 

When  you  o/re  at  Rome  do  as  the  Romans  do. 
This  proverb  baa  been  traced  to  a  sajing  of  St.  Ambrose. 
St.  Augustine  menfiona  in  one  of  hia  letters  (-^-  Issxvj  ad 
Casulan.')  tiiat  when  his  motber  was  living  with  him  at  Milan, 
ste  was  much  scandalized  because  Saturday  was  kept  there  as 
a  festival;  whilst  at  Borne,  where  she  had  resided  a  long  time, 
it  was  kept  as  a  fast.  To  ease  her  mind  he  consulted  the 
bishop  on  this  question,  who  told  hitn  he  could  give  him  no 
better  advice  in  the  case  than  to  do  as  he  himself  did,  "Eor 
when  I  go  to  Rome,"  said  Ambrose,  "  I  fast  on  the  Saturday, 
as  they  do  at  Rome;  when  I  am  here,  I  do  not  fast."  With 
this  answer,  he  says  that  "he  satisfied  his  mother,  and  ever  after 
looked  upon  it  as  an  oracle  sent  from  heaven," 
A  Nation  of  Shopkeepers. 

To  fonnd  a  great  empire  for  the  sole  purpose  of  rnisiag  Hp  a  people  of 
customers  may  at  first  sight  appear  a  project  fit  only  for  a  nation  of  shop- 
keepers, — Adam  Smith,  Wealth  of  JVaiioiu. 

On  May  31,  1817,  Napoleon  is  reported  to  have  said  to 
Barry  O'Meara, — 

You  were  greatlj  oiFeiiaeil  with  me  for  having  called  you  a  nation  of 
shopkeepers.  Had  I  m^ant  bj  this  that  yon  wore  a  nation  of  cowards, 
you  would  have  had  reason  to  be  displeased .1  meant  that  you  were 

Moreover,  no  man  of  senso  ought  to  be  ashamed  of  being  called  a 

shopkeeper. —  Voice  from  St.  Helena. 

Only  a  pauper. 
The  lines — 

Rattle  his  bones 
Over  the  stones, 
He's  only  a  pauper  whom  nobody  owna, 
are  from  the  Pauper's  Drive,  by  Thomas  Noel.    . 
Taking  time  by  the  forelock. 
Spenser  saya,  Sonnet  Ixx. ; — 

6o  to  my  love,  where  she  is  careless  laid. 
Yet  in  her  nioter'a  bower  not  well  awakof 

Tell  her  (he  joyons  time  will  not  be  staid. 
Unless  she  do  him  by  the  forelock  take. 


lyGoogle 


"FAMILIAR   QUOTATIONS   FKOM  UNFAMILIAR 

What  wis.  Mrs.  Grv,ndi/  sayf 
In  Morton's  clever  comedy,  Speed  the  Plough,  the  first 
scone  of  the  first  &ct  opens  with  a,  -rie'w  of  a  farm-house,  where 
Farmer  Ashfield  is  di3covered  at  a  tahle  with  his  jug  and  pipe, 
holding  the  following  colloquj  with  his  wife,  Dame  Ashfield, 
who  figures  in  a  riding-dresa,  with  a  haaket  under  her  arm : — 

^.SjieJci— Well,  Dame,  welcome  whoam.     What  news  does  thee  bring 


pundj'a 


Come.  eome.  miaans,  as  thee  has  DOt  the  gra*e  to  thank  God  fi 
n  thej  be  nnliindlj  a  bit. 
1  j's  butter  was  quil«  the  ora«k  i 
the  market. 

JsS.— Be  qniet  woolye?  always  ding,  dinging  Dame  Grundy  into  m 
■  ears—  WMt  will  Mre.  Sr^nd^  mgT  What  will  Mr3.  Srnndy  think?  Can 
titea  beqiiiet,  let  ur  alone,  and  behave  thyself  pratty. 

Though  hst  to  sight,  to  memory  dear. 

This  oft-quoted  line  is  traced  by  a  modern  wag,  of  an  inyei 

liTe  turn,  to  Euthven  Jenkyns,  who  wrote  the  following  verse 

published  in  the  Greenwich  Maffozine  for  Marines,  in  1701:- 

Sweetheort,  good-bye!  the  fluttering  sail 

Is  spread  to  waft  me  far  from  thee; 
And.  soon,  before  the  fav'ring  gale. 

My  ahip  shall  bound  upon  the  sea. 
Perchance,  all  desolato  aiid  forlorn 

These  eyes  shall  tniss  thee  many  a  year; 
But  unforgotten  every  Bbarm, 

Though  lost  to  eight,  to  mem'ry  dear. 
Sweetheart,  good-bye!  one  last  embrace  1 

0,  oruel  fate!  true  souls  to  sever; 
Yet  in  this  heart's  most  saored  plaoe 

Thou,  thou  alone  ahalt  dwell  forererl 
And  atill  shall  reoollection  trace 

In  Fancy's  mirror,  ever  near, 
Baohsmile,  each  tear— that  form,  that  face- 
Though  lost  to  sight,  to  mem'rj  dear. 


lyClOOglC 


560  FAMILIAR  QUOTATIONS  PROM    UNPAMICIAR   SOUECES. 

Too  low  they  huild  who  build  heneath  the  stars. 
Buildera  who  adopt  this  motto  are  indebted  for  it  to  Young, 
The  aow.pla.mt,  viii.  215. 

Patriotism,  ts  the  lastlrefuge  of  a  scoutuirel. 
I>r.  Johnson,according  to  Boewell,  is  credited  with  thia  phrase. 

So  much  the  wwsefor  the  facts. 
M.  Koyer  Collard  disapproved  of  the  opinions  of  the  Fathers 
of  Port  Royal  on  the  doctrine  of  grace :  "7^3  ont  les  textes  pour 
eux,  diaMt  il,  fen  suis  fcwhi  pour  les  texies."  So  nrneh  the 
worse  for  the  tests,^ — a  very  different  and  much  more  reason- 
able saying  than  the  paradoxical  expression  commonly  ascribed 
to  Voltaire. 

Conspicuous  hy  iti  absence. 
Earl  Eussell,  in  an  address  to  the  electors  of  the  city  of 
London,  alluding  to  Lord  Derby's  Reform  Bill,  which  had  just 
been  defeated,  said ; — 

Among  the  ilafeota  of  the  Bill,  which  were  numerous,  one  proTision  was 
oonspionous  by  ita  presenus,  and  one  by  its  abaeneo. 

In  the  course  of  a  speech  subsequently  delivered  at  a  meeting 
of  Liberal  electors  at  the  London  Tavern,  he  justified  his  use 
of  these  words  thus  :^   . 

It  has  been  thought  that  by  a,  miBuomer  or  a  ball  on  my  part  I  allndea 
to  it  as '"a  proviaiou  oonepioaoas  by  ita  abaeuoe,"  a  turn  of  phraseology 
which  is  not  an  original  eipression  of  mine,  liut  is  tjiken  from  one  of  the 
greatest  hiatoriana  of  antiquity. 

The  historian  referred  to  is  Tacitus,  who,  (Annah,  iii.  761) 
speaking  of  the  images  carried  in  procession  at  the  fiineral  of 
Junia,  says :  Sed  prsefulgehant  Oasmis  atque  Brutus  eo  ipso 
quod  effigies  em~u.m  non  videbantur.  RuBSeU's  adaptation  re- 
calls the  "brilliant  flashes  of  silence"  which  Sydney  Smith 
attributed  to  Macaulay.  Since  the  Jesuits  succeeded  in  causing 
the  lives  of  Arnauld  and  Pascal  to  be  excluded  fem  L'Ststoire 
des  Hotwrnea  IRustres,  by  Perrault,  the  epigrammatic  expression 
Briller parson  absence  has  been  popular  among  the  French. 


lyClOOglC 


TAMILIAR   QUOTATIONS   PROM   UNFAMILIAR   HOUSCKS,    561 

Do  tu  Tsat/,  not  as  I  do. 
This  proverbial  expression  was  in  common  use  among  the 
Italian  monks  in  tlie  Middle  Ages.  It  occurs  in  tlie  Decameron 
of  Bocoacio  thus:  "Ea  eroient  avoir  bien  repondu  et  €tre  absous 
de  tout  crime  quand  ila  ont  dit,  Faites  ee  que  mows  disons  et  ne 
faites  pas  ce  que  nova  faimne."  The  germ  of  the  words  thus 
put  into  tlie  mouths  of  the  friars  of  his  day,  Bocoacio  no  doubt 
found  in  the  language  of  our  Saviour  recorded  in  Matthew 
xxiii.  2,  3: — "The  scribes  and  Pharisees  sit  in  Moaes'  seat;  all 
therefore  whataoever  they  bid  you  observe,  that  observe  and  do; 
but  do, not  ye  after  their  works;  f'lr  they  say  cmd  do  iwt." 

Mr.  Longfellow,  in  his  New  England  Tragedies,  puts  into  the 
mouth  of  Captain  Kempthome,  hack  in  the  times  of  Quaker 
persecution,  a  now  familiiff  phrase.     He  speaks  of 

A  lolid  man  of  BqHo«; 
A  eomfortable  man,  with  divideDda, 
And  the  fitat  aalmou,  and  tha  first  grean  peaE. 

Aubrey  in  his  Letters,  speaking  of  the  handwriting  of  \h& 
poet  Waller,  aays: — "He  writesa  lamentable  hand,  as  bad  as. 
the  seratching  of  a,  hen."  Probably  au^ested  by  the  ^'gallma . 
scripsii"  of  Plautua. 

The  phrase  viaslerly  mactivi'y,  first  used  by  Sir  James  Mack-- 
intosh  in  his  Vindicise  GaUiex,  finds  a  prototype  in  the  Horatian . 
expression,  "  sft-CTiua  IMS  exereet  inertia,"  {Epist.  fit.  I., si, 28,); 
and  in  the  words  of  Isaiah,  "  their  strength  is  to  sit  still  "{xxs.  7) . 

From  Don  Quixote  veh&Ye  Sonesti/  is  the  best  police/.  From. 
GU  Bias,  (Smollet's  trans.,)  comes  Facts  are  stubhom,'  things. 
From  Burton's  Anatomy  of  Melancholy,  (P.  iii.  Sec.  3,  Mem 
i.  Subs.  2,)  Comparisons  are  odioiis.  From  Bunyan's  Pilgrim's 
Progress,  Dm-k  as  pitch,  and  Every  tub  must  stwnd  on  its  own 
bottom.  From  Shakspeare,  Fast  and  loose  {Love's  Labor  Lost, 
iii.  1.)';  Main  chance  (2  Senry  IV,  Hi.  1) ;  Let-the  viorld  slide 
(  Tamwff  of  the  Shrew,  Indue,  i.).  From  Burns,  ( 
Esopus  to  Mwria,')  Dm-ance  vile. 


lyGoogle 


562      FAMILIAR  QUOTATIONS  fltOM  ONFAMILiAU  SODKCES. 

Chhist«A9  oomBB  but  once  n  year.— TnoMAS  Tusseb,  1580. 

It's  an  ill  Bind  that  blows  nobo.dy  any  good. 
Otiginally  written^- 

It  is  an  ill  wind  tarns  none  Ui  good. — Thomas  Tusseb. 

Look  ere  tbou  loap.— Tusseb. 
And 

Look  before  you  ere  jou  leap.— BuTLEB !  Sudibna,  0. 2. 

Bid  the  devii  take  tho  hindmost.— ffudi6™»,  0.  2. 

Count  thB  chiokens  ere  they'ro  hatched.— Badibroe,  e.  3. 

UTooasaitj,  the  tyrant's  pica.— MiLTOH,— Paradise  Loei,  B.  iv. 

Peace  hath  her  vietorios,  Ac— Ibid  :  Sonnet  sri. 

The  old  man  tloqiient.— Ibid  :  Te«th  Soansl. 

On  tho  light  fontostio  toe. — ImD :  L'Allegro. 

The  devil  may  cite  Soriptnra  for  hia  purpose. 

SHAKSPEiltEi  MereTmnt  af  Yeaiei, 

Assume  a  virtus  thongb  you  have  it  not — Hasiiet, 

Brevity  is  the  aoul  of  int^Hnmlet. 

The  sete,  the  yellow  leaf.— ifni^ipfi. 

Curses  not  loud,  but  Aee^^Matleth. 

Make  assutanoe  doubly  sar^.—ilaxbelh. 

Thereby  hanga  a  tola,— Js  Von  Lika  It. 

Good  wine  needs  no  bush.— ..4>  Ton  Like  It. 

Though  last,  not  least,  in  love — Julias  Cesar. 

Food  for  powder.— I'irsi  Part  Henry  IV. 

Ona  touch  ot  nature  makes  the  whols  world  kin.— IVoiZirs  and  CrMaida, 

And  made  a  sunshine  in  a  ahady  placa.^SFEBSi!B :  Fain,  Qaeen. 

Eshauated  worlds,  and  then  imagined  new. 
Dn.  JonssoN :  P>-ologne  at  the  opening  of  tlie  Pmry  Lane  Theatre,  1M7. 

To  point  a  moral  or  adorn  a  tale.- Ibid:  Vanili/  of  Hamaa  Witiet. 

Slow  rises  worth  by  poverty  depreesod. — Ibid  :  London. 

Ask  roe  no  questions  and  I'll  tell  yon  no  fibs. 

Goldsmith  !  She  Sloops  to  Conquer. 

And  to  party  gave  up  wliat  was  meant  for  mankind.— Ibid  !  iieiali'aiion. 

■\VIiiter  Ihigering  ohilla  the  lap  of  May.— Ibid  i  The  Traveller. 

Of  two  evils  I  have  chose  tbe  least.— Prioe. 

His  (God'a)  image  out  ia  ebony.- TuoMis  Fuller. 

Richard's  himself  again.— Collet  Cibbek. 

Building  easUes  in  the  eJr. 
Originally  written,— 

Building  easaes  in  Spain.- Scarron. 

Hope,  the  dream  of  a  waking  man.— Basil. 

Music  has  eharros  to  soothe  a  savage  breast. 

Congbeve:  The  Moiirninj  Bride. 
-    Earth  haa  no  rage  like  love  (o  hatred  turned— Ibid. 

Let  wbo  may  make  the  laws  of  a  people,  allow  me  to  write  their  bal- 


lyClOOglC 


FAMILIAR  QUOTATIONS  FROM  UI^rAMILlAR  SOURCES.    563 

When  Greek  meets  Greelt,  tten  oouxea  the  tag  of  «ar. 
lti£inal!y, 


stwnra  tbe  ( 
pent-up  Uti 


raofeu 


Nat  I.ee 


Pliw,  of  AUiai^der  the  Grent,  169 
IS  ita  waj.— Bishop  Eebkklet. 


ts  ji)ur  I 


.[git,  oat  of  m 


it  of  Bight.— LoHt)  Brooke. 
Through  thiok  and  Ihin.— DarnE-v ;  AUidom  aud  Aehitopkd. 
Ha  whistled  us  he  went  fur  want  of  thousht.— II). :  Ci/simi  widTpMgmia. 
Great  wlta  are  sura  to  madness  near  allied.— Ib.  ;  Absalom  d:  AcMlophtL 
Hone  but  the  bravo  deserve  the  fair,- Inin  ;  Alexander'e  Feast. 
To  err  is  homaa  1  to  forgive,  divine.— PcPK  :  AioJ  oh  Ci-ilici™. 
In  wit  a  man ;  simplicity,  a  ebilil.— Iuid  ;  Epiioph  ait  Qay. 
I  lisped  in  numbers,  for  the  numbers  oamo.—lB. :  P'olorjae  ta  Ha  Salirea. 

Order  is  Heaven's  first  ian.— Ibfd  ;  Esmy  o«  .fl/an,  > 

An  honest  man's  the  noblest  work  of  Ood.— iBin  :  Estog  on  Mao. 
Looks  through  natiire  up  to  nature's  God.— ruin;  Easciy  an  Mao. 
Pleased  with  a  rattle,  tickled  with  o  straw.— Incn :  Emay  im  ifan. 

Who  never  mentions  hoU  to  oara  polite Ibid  :   The  EpUIUs. 

From  Bseniing  evil  still  ednoing  good.— Tn  on  son !  flj"ii.. 

To  tench  the  joung  idea  bow  to  shoot:  Ibid:  The  Seasojit,  Spring. 

'Tis  distance  lends  enchantment  to  the  view. 

CiMPEELi.:  Pkamres  of  Bope. 
hod  till  woman  smiled.- Ibid. 


"  When 


is  bliss 


n  College. 


is  foUj  tc 
Thoughts  that  breathe  and  words  that  hum 
Kursing  het  wrath  to  keep  it-warm — Bubns  :  Tam  O'Shanler. 
As  clear  as  a  whistle— BYitoir :  The  Astrologei-. 
She  walks  the  waters  like  a  thingof  life.— Bibon:  The /aland. 
The  cups  that  oheor  bat  uot  inebriate.— Co wper  ;  Taik. 
Not  muob  the  w 


—Mao 


[ :  17B1. 


The  Almighty  Dollar— Washington  Ibving;  Cceofe  Village. 
Entangling  alliances.- GKonoE  WisnisOTOU. 
Where  liberty  dwells,  there  is  my  oonutry.— Bebjamin  Fbanei 
The  post  of  honor  is  the  private  station,- Tuoa.  JepfmbsoK. 
■Straws  show  which  way  the  wind  blows. — Jahes  CheAtkih. 

Face  the  musie. — J.  FeniuOeb  Coo?Git. 


lyGoogle 


CHUECHYAKB  tlTERATHEE. 


©1)urdjgcUt)  Eitprature. 

HIC  JACET.  SACEUM   MEMORI^, 

Sarth's  bigheat  stntian  ends  in  bbbb  he  lies  1 

And  DnsT  to  dust  eoneludes  bar  noblest  song. 

EHiaRivrr  is  the  insoriplion  on  the  tombstone  wbere  be  lies; 

Dead  he  is  not,  but  departed,  for  the  CbriatiBB  never  dies. 
A  hieroglyph  formed  bj  the  two  first  letters  of  the  flreei  word  CMiloa,  in- 
teraceting  the  Chi  longitudiniilly  by  the  SAo.—s.  paloiJear,  or  a  wreath  of 
palm -learea,  indiealing  victory,— a  erown,  wbioh  speaks  of  the  reward  of  the 
aainta, — an  iiiunorfoJie,  or  a  vessel  supporting  a  column  of  flame,  in dioating 
oonlinaed  lift, — an  anchor,  which  indicates  tope, — a  ship  under  sail,  which 
saya,  "Heavenward  bound,"— the  letters  Alpha  and  Omega,  the  Apooalypfio 
tille  of  Christ, — the  dove,  the  emblem  of  innoconoe  and  holiness, — tha 
winged  iuBaof  escaping  from  the  chrysalis,  typioal  of  the  reanrreoUon,— the 
cross,  the  Christian'a  tins  and  only  glory  in  life  and  death,  by  wbioh  ha  is 
crucified  to  the  world,  and  the  world  to  him, — these  are  the  embloma  that 
speak  lo  the  Chrislian's  heart  of  faith,  and  hope,  and  love,  and  hnmility. 

EPITAPHS   or   EMINENT   MEN. 

Oheistopher  Columbus  died  at  Valladolid,  May  20, 1.506, 
sst.  70.  In  1513  his  body  was  taken  to  Seville,  on  the  Gua- 
dalquiyir,  and  there  deposited  in  the  family  vadt  of  the  Dukea 
of  Aleala,  in  the  Cathedral.  Upon  a  tablet  was  inscribed,  in 
Castiiian,  this  meagre  couplet,  which  is  still  legible : — 


[  To  Caatilo  and  "Aragon 
Columbus  gave  another  world,] 

In  1536,  the  remains  of  the  great  navigator  w 
to  St.  Domingo  and  deposited  in  the  Cathedral,  where  they 
continued  until  a  recent  period,  when  they  were  finally  disin- 
terred, and  removed  to  Havana.  The  inscription  on  the  tablet 
in  the  Cathedral  of  St.  Domingo,  now  obliterated,  was  as  fol- 
lows : — 


lyClOOglC 


CHUaCUYARD   LITEKATTJRB. 


Hio  locus 

absooQdi 

CynB 

imsaai 

8 

ra  volaL 

Hon  satii 

Ignotu 

m  priecis 

Di))U3  Ipse  dedi 

Divitiaa 

Atqua  an 
Invcnit  c 

Dins  ccelo 
nmpna  div 

tr 

ndidit  iQOUuera 
s  legibue  aptoa. 

Begibua 

t  noatria 

spera  regna  ded 

"William  Shakspeare  died  April  23,  1616,  set.  52,  and 
was  buried  in  the  ohancel  of  the  church  of  Stratford.  The 
moDument  erected  to  hia  memory  reprosenta  the  poet  with  a 
thoughtful  countensince,  resting  on  a  cushion  and  in  the  act  of 
writing.  Immediately  below  the  cushion  is  the  following  dis- 
tich : — 

Judido  Pylium;  gefiio  Socratem  ;  srtaMHronBmi 
Terra  (egit;  populue  mtsictj  Olympus  babDt.t 

On  a  tablet  underneath  are  inscribed  these  lines : — 

Staj,  passenger ;  why  dost  thou  go  so  fast? 
Bead,  if  tilou  caast^  nhont  envious  death  iiatii  placed 
Within  this  monumeul,— Shakspeaio ;  with  whom 
Quick  Nature  died ;  whose  name  doth  deck  the  tomb 
Far  mora  than  oost;  since  all  that  he  hath  writ 

and  on  the  flat  stone  covering  the  grave  is  inscribed,  in  very 
irregular  characters,  the  following  quaint  supplication,  bless- 
ing, and  menace ; — 

Good  Friand,  fbr  Jests  sake  forbaara 
To  digs  ^E  ^'■st  EnoloAsod  HERB ; 


This  apot  conceals  the  body  of  the  renowned  Oolurabua,  nhoae  name 
ire  to  the  stars.  Not  satisfied  with  the  known  globe,  he  added  to  all  the 
in  unknown  world.  Throughout  all  countrios  ha  distributed  untold  wealth, 
gave  to  heaven  unnumbered  souls.  Hs  found  an  extended  field  for  gospal 
lions,  and  conferred  prosperity  upon  the  reign  of  our  mnnaicha. 
A  Nestor  in  discrimination,  a  Soorates  in  talent,  a  Virgil  in  poetic  art : 
jarth  covers  him,  Che  people  mourn  for  him,  Heavan  possesses  him. 


lyGoogle 


566  CHUaCHYAKD   LITERATURE. 

SIR'  laAAO  MEWTON,  OB.  1727,  ^T.  85. 
Htro  liea  interred  IsaiQ  Newfon,  knight,  who,  with  nn  energj  of  mind  al. 
moat  divino,  goiijeil  bj  the  light  of  matbemalioa  purely  his  onn,  first  demun- 
etrated  the  motions  and  figures  of  the  planets,  ibe  pntha  of  comets,  end  the 
tituaos  of  the  tides;  who  diaoovered,  what  beforo  hia  timo  no  ono  had  ever 
enspected,  that  the  rays  of  light  are  diffbrontlj  refrangible,  and  that  thia  ia 
the  canaa  of  oolora;  and  who  WM  a  diligeut,  penetrating,  and  faithful  inter- 
preter of  notjire,  antiquity,  and  the  aaored  wrilings.  Iq  his  philosophy,  he 
maintained  the  mujest;  of  the  Supremo  Being ;  in  hia  mannora,  he  expreaaed 
the  simplicity  of  the  Gospel.  Let  mortsls  congi'ntulate  themselves  that  the 
world  has  aeon  ao  great  and  escellant  a  man,  the  glory  of  human  nature. 

Pope's  inacription  is  as  follows  :■ — 

laaaous  Ncwtonua: 

Teatantur  Tempi,,,  Nalurv.,  Cketum: 

Mortalcm 

Hoc  marmor  fatetur. 

Nature  and  nature's  laws  lay  hid  in  eight: 

God  said,  Zel  Newtoa  be .'  and  all  nas  light. 

Johnson's  epitaph  on  goldskiith.* 

Thou  eeeet  the  tomh  of  Oliver;  retire. 
Unholy  feet,  nor  o'er  hie  esbsa  tread. 
Te  whom  the  deeds  of  old,  verae,  nature,  Are, 

COWPER'S   epitaph   on   dr.  JOHNSON. 
Here  Johnson  lies, — a  sage  hy  all  allowed. 

Whose  prose  was  eloquence,  by  wisdom  taught^ 

The  graceful  vehicle  of  virtuoua  thought ; 

Whoso  verse  may  claim — grave,  masculine  and  strong — 

Saperier  praise  to  the  mere  poet's  song  ; 

Who  many  a  noble  gill  from  heaven  possessed. 

And  fiilh  at  last,  alone  worth  all  ttie  rest 

By  feme  on  earth, — by  glory  in  the  akiea ! 

•  The  original  is  in  Greek,  as  follows  ; — 


lyGoogle 


CmiB.cn YAItD   LITERATURE. 


567 


GEORGE   WASIIINQTON,  OB.  DeO.  14,  1799,  JET.  67. 

WLen,  in  1838,  tlie  remiuna  of  "VVasLington  were  remo¥ed 
from  the  old  vault  into  the  new,  at  Mount  Vernon,  the  coffin 
was  placed  in  a  TDoautiful  sarcophagus  of  white  marble,  from  a 
quariy  in  Chester  county,  Pennsjlvaaia,  and  prepared  in  Phi- 
ladelphia by  the  gentleman  who  presented  it.  The  lid  la 
wrought  with  the  arms  of  the  country  and  the  inscription  here 
appended.  Independently  of  other  considerations,  it  is  desir- 
able, for  the  honor  of  the  nation  so  largely  indebted  to  Wash- 
ington, that  his  grave  should  be  something  more  than  an  adver- 
tising medium  for  a  marble-mason.  But  the  faithful  chroni- 
cler must  take  things  as  he  finds  them,  not  always  as  they 
should  be : — 

WASHINGTON. 
By  the  perroLsaion  of 


Georgo  WnBhington, 
thia  aateophaguB 

John  Slruthcrs, 
.f  Philadelphia,  Marblo  Mi 


The  stone  and  ttc  inseriptjon  over  the  grave  of  Frankhn 
and  his  wife,  at  the  corner  of  Fifth  and  Arch  Streets,  Phila- 
delphia, and  recently  opened  to  public  view  by  substituting  for 
the  old  brick  wall  a  neat  iron  railing,  are  according  to  his  own 
direction  in  his  will.  The  exceeding  plainness  of  both  are 
strikingly  eharacteriatic  of  the  man.  The  stone  is  a  simple 
marble  slab,  sis  feet  by  four,  lying  horizontally,  and  raised 
about  a  foot  above  the  ground.     It  bears  the  following : — 

BE.IJAraNi 


The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  epitaph  written  by  Franklin 
upon  himself,  at  the  age  of  twenty-three,  while  a  journeyman 
printer : — 


lyClOOglC 


CHUKCHYARD   LITEEATUKE. 


Behjau 

IT  Fhankl 

(Like  the 

cover  of  ai 

oldb 

ok. 

Its 

And  Blript  of 

ila  letterii. 

iindg 

Idinif 

Lies 

ftod  for  « 

Yet  the  WOT 

[itaelfsballnotbeloBt, 

r  it  Bill  [ash 

boliovod] 
In  B  new 

ppear 

noeB 

Andm 

re  beftutifal  edition. 

Cone 

cted  and  amended 

The  Author. 

That  ^s  well-knowa  typographical  inscription  was  plagia- 
rized from  Mather's  Magnalia  Chrtsti  Americana,  is  evident 
from  Franklin's  own  admission  of  his  familiarity  with  the 
works  of  "the  great  Cotton."  To  the  perusal  in  early  life  of 
Matter's  excellent  volume,  Essays  to  do  Good,  published  in 
1710,  Franklin  ascribed  all  his  "  usefulness  in  the  world." 
The  lines  alluded  to  in.  the  famous  Ecclesiastical  History  are 
by  Benjamin  Woodbridge,  a  member  of  the  first  graduating 
class  of  Harvard  University,  1642  : — 

A  living,  brealliing  BibJe;  laHes  where 
Both  Covemnfs  at  large  oDgraven  were. 


Bis  life  a  commentary  on  the  text. 

rlh, 

When,  in  a  new  edition,  he  comeB 

ortJi 

Old  Jc»eph  Oapen,  minister  of  TopsfieU,  had  also,  ii 
given  John  Foster,  who  set  up  the  first  printing-press 
ton,  the  benefit  of  the  idea 


Thy  body,  nhieh  no  activenoss  did  laolt, 
Now'a  laid  aside  like  an  old  almanac, 
Bnt  for  the  present  only'a  out  of  date ; 
Twill  have  at  length  a  Eur  more  active  state. 
Tea,  though  with  dust  thy  body  soiled  be. 
Yet  at  the  resurrection  we  shall  aeo 


lyClOOglC 


CHUECHYARD   LITERATURE. 


Davis,  in  hia  Travels  in  America,  finds  another  source  in  a 
Latin  epitaph  on  the  London  bookseller  Jacob  Tonaon,  pub- 
lished with  an  Enghsh' translation  in  the  Gmtleinan's 
for  Feb.,  1736.     This  is  its  conclusion  ; — 


Andk 


,s  few  perplexed 

mf-jr'twascoii 

.ndaled. 


Bo  printed  on  thj  monument, 
Lest  the  Jtrst  page  of  deaih  siiouH  be. 
Great  adilor,  a  blttnh  \a  thee ; 
And  thos  nbo  many  titles  gave 
Should  want  one  title  for  this  grare. 
Sta;,  pnsseDger,  and  drop  a  tear) 
Hare  lies  a  noted  Bookaellar; 
This  marble  index  here  is  placed 
To  teU,  that  nhen  he  found  defaced 
His  book  of  life,  he  died  with  grief: 
Yet  he,  by  true  luid  genuine  baliei; 

Far  more  enlarged  and  more  corral 


Anther  of  the  Declaration  of  American  Independonoo, 

Of  the  Statute  of  Virginia  for  Religious  Freedom, 

And  FaUier  of  the  Univeraitj  of  Virginia. 


Garrick's  epitaph  on  Hogarth  at  Chiawiok  is  well  kn< 
That  written  by  Dr.  Johnson  is  shorter  and  superior : — 


lyClOOglC 


Which  must  endure  Bhilu  tho  peaceful  arts  flonrish. 

But  to  Eh  on 

That  mankind  have  learned  to  honor  ttose 

Who  best  desaire  their  gratilmJo, 

The  King,  hia  Minislera;  and  many  of  the  Hobles 

And  CominODera  of  the  Realm 

•      Raised  this  Monument  to 

James  Watt, 

Who,  directing  the  force  of  an  original  genius, 

Early  es ere ised  in  pliilosophic  research. 

To  the  improvement  of 

The  Steam  Engine, 

Enlarged  the  rosoureos  of  his  Coantrj, 

Inereajed  the  power  of  mon. 

And  roao  to  on  eminent  place 

Among  the  most  illuBtrioua  followers  of  Science 

And  the  real  henofactora  of  the  World. 

ETI LOGISTIC,   APT,   APPROPRIATE. 


Underneofh  this  mnrhlo  hcnrso 
Lioa  tho  subject  of  all  rerse, 
Sydney's  sister,— Pemhroiie's  motl 
Death,  ere  thou  haat  slain  another 
Fair,  and  wise,  and  good  as  sbn. 
Time  shall  thron  a  dart  at  thee  [ 
Marble  piki  lot  no  man  raise 
To  her  nalne  for  after  days  ; 
gome  kind  woman  horn  as  she, 
Reading  this,  like  Niobe, 
ShaU  turn  marble,  and  became 
Both  her  mourner  and  her  tomb. 


TJndarncath  this  stono  doth  lis 
As  mach  beaut;  as  oould  die, 
Which  in  life  did  harbor  give 
To  more  virtue  than  doth  live. 


lyClOOglC 


CHUaCHyAED 


571 


iimtfl  of  her  fellow-creatntea,  and  cultivated  tbat  divino  pleasure  by  thi 
.  liberal  and  unpreleDilmg  luethode.  Tu  the  pom  she  Trns  a  benefactreaa 
e  rlohsheiras  an  example;  to  the  wretched  a  comrorter;  to  the  pros 
us  an  ornament.  Her  pity  went  hand  in  hand  with  berhai 
le  thanked  her  Creator  for 


and  yet 


miglit  T 


□  thee 


und,  but 


lalil  n 


if  her  hushand,  oould  but  transplaQt 


Cara,  vale,  ingenio  prastans,  pietate,  pudore, 

Et  plus  quam  nala  nomine  cara.  Talc. 
Cara  Maria,  vale;  ab  reniot  fdioius  tevum, 

Quando  itenim  taoum,  aim  modo  dignna,  ero. 
Oaca  redi,  liet^.tum  dienm  vooe,  patecaos 
Eja  ago  la  amploxof,  ears  Maria,  redl[ 
[Doarer  than  daughter, — paralleled  by  few 
In  geniue,  goodneas,  modestj, — adieu  I 
Adieui  Maria,— till  that  day  nore  blest. 
When,  if  deserving,  I  with  thee  aball  reat^ 
Come,  then,  Ihj  sire  will  cry  in  joyful  sliam, 
Oh,  cojne  to  my  paternal  arms  again.] 


aofl  humanity,  that  bleat  the  poor; 

eaint-oyed  patience,  from  aJSiation's  door 

modeaty  that  never  wore  a  frown ; 

virtue,  and  roocivo  thy  heavenly  «rown. 

iranger  came  this  heartfelt  verse: 

iscrlbed  thy  tomb,  whose  tear  bedewed  thy  hearse. 


She  waa  of  this  world,  where  all  things  the  rarest 

Have  still  the  ahortest  race; 
A  roBB  she  lived  (so  Uvea  of  flowers  the  fiiirest) 

A  little  morning's  space  I] 


lyClOOglC 


CHUECHYAED 


Lhkb  XX.  36. 
Sleep  on  In  pence;  await  thy  Mnker'a  nUl; 
Tiisn  rise  uDehanged,  ami  be  an  angel  still  I 

In  the  ohureli  of  Ightham,  near  Sevenoafcs,  Kent,  is  a  nmral 
monument  with  the  bust  of  a  lady,  who  was  famous  for  her 
needlework  and  was  traditionally  reported  to  have  mritteo  the 
letter  to  Lord  Monteagle  which  resulted  in  the  discovery  of 
the  Gunpowder  Plot.  The  following  ia  the  insoription  : — 
D.  D.  D. 

To  the  pretious  name  and  Iionour  of  Dame  Dorothr  Selby,  Relict  of 
Sir  William  Selby,  Kt.  the  only  daughter  and  teire  of  Charles  Bonhnio,  Esq. 
Sbo  nas  a  Dorcaa, 

Whose  curious  ncedlo  noitnd  the  abused  stage 

Of  this  lend  norld  into  the  golden  age; 

Whoso  pen  of  steel  and  sillien  inck  enroUed 

The  aata  of  Jonah  in  records  of  gold ; 

Whose  arts  disclosed  that  plot,  nhioh,  had  it  taken, 

Rome  bad  triumphed,  and  Britain's  nails  had  shaken. 

In  heart  a  Xijdis,  and  in  topgae  a  HouDa; 
In  zeaie  b  Buth,  in  ireillock  a  Susanna; 
Prudently  simple,  providently  n-aiy, 
To  fhe  world  a  Majlha,  and  lo  heaven  a  Mary, 

Who  pal  on  f      in  the  year      1  Pilgrimage,  69. 

immortality  I         of  her  i  Redeemer,  1641. 

iln.  Jenmt  Woadniff,  1760,  El.  43. 
The  dome,  that  rosta  witbm  this  tomb. 
Had  Rachel's  beauty,  Leah's  fniitfal  womb, 
Abigail's  wisdom,  Lydia'e  faithful  hearty 
Martha's  Just  care,  and  Marj's  better  part. 


Braintree,  thy  prophet's  ^ne  ;  this  Eomb  inters 
The  Eev.  Muses  Fiske  his  aaored  herse. 
Adore  heaven's  proiseful  art,  that  formed  the  man. 
WhoBoulE,  not  to  himself,  but  Christ  oft  won; 
Sailed  through  theatraits  with  Peter's  family 
Renowned,  and  0  Bins'  hospitality. 

Is  landed,  entered,  cleared,  and  crowned  above. 


lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD   LITERATURE. 


Here  liea  the  Body  of 
Joseph  Williams,  Esq. 
Son  of  Roger  Williams,  Esq. 
(The  Erst  white  man  thnt  cams  to  ProvidBnoe.) 
Born  1644.     Died  172S. 
Id  King  Philip's  war,  ha  oouragaouslj  went  throngh. 
And  tbe  native  Indians  ha  bravol;  did  subdue ; 
And  now  be'a  gone  down  into  the  grave,  and  he  will  bo  □' 
Until  itploaso  Almigiitj  God  his  body  to  restore 
Into  some  proper  shape,  as  he  thinks  fit  to  be. 
Perhaps  like  a  grain  of  whoat,  as  Paul  set  forth,  you  see, 
Corinthians  1  Book,'  15  obap.  37  varse. 

The  mood  of  merit  ne'or  shall  die. 
Nor  reodeat  worth  negleetad  lie. 
The  fame  that  pious  virtne  gl7es, 
The  Mamphiau  monuments  outlives. 


To  this  sad  sbrine,  whoe'er  then  art!  drawneai; 
Here  lies  the  friend  most  loved,  the  son  most  dear : 
Who  ne'er  knew  joy  but  frieodsliip  might  divida. 
Or  gave  his  father  grief  but  when  ta  died. 

The  idea  in  tlie  last  line  appears  to  be  derived  from  i 
epitaph  on  an  excellent  wife,  in  the  Roman  catacombs  : — 

COHJDQl   PllSSIUa 


She  who  lias  beneath  this  stone 
Died  of  eonstanoy  slone; 
Tear  not  to  approach,  oh,  passer-by — 
Of  naught  contagious  did  she  din. 

One  of  the  simplest,  truest,  and  most  dignified  epitaphs  i 
written  may  be  found  in  the  Spectator,  No.  518  : — 


lyGoogle 


OHURCHrAED    LITERATURE. 


Eeo.  Joseph  Grten,  IVro,  wf.  70. 
Think  what  the  ChrJElian  ujiniBtec  should  he, 
TouVo  then  hia  oharaoler,  for  such  was  he. 

A  similar  epitaph  may  be  found  in  Torrington  dnirchjard, 
Devon ; — 


Whicli  provoked  the  following  reply : — 

A  womim  should  be  both  a,  wife  and  motliBr, 
But  Jenny  Jones  was  neither  one  not  t'other. 


Mia>  Boudiiwl,  1770,  si.  63. 
Tllis  modest  stona,  wbat  faw  vain  marbles  < 

When  Vera  sought  death,  armod  with  his  sword  ! 
Death  was  afraid  to  meet  him  in  tbe  fiald ; 
Bat  when  bis  wonpons  he  hod  laid  a^ide, 
Deatli,  liika  a  eowocd,  Btiuek  him,  and  be  diad. 


(Owe  o/lSe  Elhnhlhna  PoQln,  ob.  Ii 
Do,  pious  MarWe,  let  thy  renders  kno 
What  they  and  what  thsir  ohildren  on 
To  DniVTOs's  name,  whose  aaered  du 


lyClOOglC 


CHURCHyARD  LirEEATTJRE. 


C  ttttt  cnnnot  fade,  shall  bi 


The  epigrammatic  turn  in  the  concluding  stanza  was  e^ 
dently  plagiarized  from  Ion's  inscription  upon  the  tomb  ■ 
Euripides,  which  is  thus  faithfuljj  translated : — 

Divino  Eurlpidoa,  ibis  tomb  wo  see 

So  fair,  is  not  a.  monument  for  thee, 

So  much  ns  thou  for  it;  Blnco  all  will  pwn 

Thy  XLUmo  and  lasting  praisa  aiorn  the  stonB. 


The  Hneband,  epenliiDge  trewly  nf  his  nife, 
Read  hifl  loese  in  hir  daoth,  hir  praise  in  lifa: 

Heare  Lacio  Quioeie  Bromfickl  buried  lies. 

With  neighbors  Bad  iloope,  weopinge,  hnrtsa,  aighes,  eyes. 

Children  elooven;  lenno  Uvinge,  me  she  brought. 

More  liind,  trcno,  chaate  vas  nonna,  in  deed,  irord,  thought, 

Hoirse,  children,  state,  by  hir  naa  raid,  bred,  thrirea. 

One  of  the  best  of  maides,  of  women,  wives, 

Now  gone  to  Qod,  her  heart  sent  long  bcfora ; 

In  fiisting,  prayer,  faith,  hope,  and  alms'  deades  stoaie. 

If  anio  iluiltB,  eha  lovfd  me  too  mueh. 

Ah,  pardon  that,  for  ther  aro  too  fewe  sr 


oader,  if  thou 


Praise  Ood  for 


.  hnrd-l 


arted  be 


.  sigh  and  praie  for  m 
ir  dead,  I  dead  ie; 
to  life,  wee  meet  m 
1C18. 

i   AND   CHILDREN. 


The  following  epitaph  on  an  infant  ia  by  Samuel  Wesley, 
the  author  of  the  caustic  lines  on  the  eustom  of  perpetuating 
lies  on  monumental  marble,  by  commemorating  virtues  which 
ne?er  had  an  existence, — ending  thus  :-— 

K  01)  his  Bpeeions  marble  wa  rely, 
Pity  such  worth  as  his  should  ever  die  I 
If  credit  to  his  real  life  wo  giro. 
Pity  a  wretch  like  him  should  ever  lival 


it  lloi 


lyClOOglC 


CHURCH YAKD   LITERATURE. 
More  glorious  shall  heresJter  rise. 


Beneath  this  etons  four  infants'  oahes  lie  ; 

If  death's  bj  Bin,  they  sinned  i  for  Ihej  are  LerB,- 
If  heaven's  by  works,  in  heaven  they  ean't  appear. 
Reason,  ah,  how  depraved ! 

The;  died,  foi  Adam  sinaed;  they  liie,  far  Joaus  died. 


On  the  b^e  of  a  beautiful  recumbent  statuette  ii 
Path  is  inscribed : — 

EMILT. 
Shed  not  for  her  the  bitter  tear. 

Nor  givo  the  heart  to  vain  regret  ,■ 
TiB  but  the  casket  that  lies  here : 
The  gem  that  filled  it  sparkles  jet. 


Our  QoD,  to  call  us  bomeward. 
His  only  Son  seat  down  ; 

And  new,  sdll  more  to  tempt  our 
Has  taken  up  oui  own. 


lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD    LITERATUKE. 


Whoae  all  of  life— a  rosy  ray— 
Blafbed  into  daHQ  Emd  passed  anay. 

TThknd's  beautiful  epitaph  on  an  infant*  has  been  thus 
pwraphraeed : — 

Thou  art  oome  and  gone  nith  footfall  low, 

A  wanderer  haatoning  to  depart; 
Whither  and  whence'  weonlyknjw 

From  God  thou  mast,  with  Gi  d  thou  art. 

Better  than  this  m  spirit,  by  all  thit  makes  Christian  faith 
and  hope  better  than  vague  queatiomng,  and  fully  equal  to  it 
in  poetic  merit,  is  thn  foUowmg  by  F  T  Palgrave:^ 

pare,  aireet,  and  fair,  ere  thou  could  at  taste  of  ill, 

God  willed  it  and  thy  baby  breath  was  atillj 

Now  'moQg  his  lamba  thon  Hvest  thy  Saviour's  oate, 

Foreror  as  Chou  waat,  pure,  Eweet  and  fair. 


Just  with  her  lips  the  eup  of  life  she  pressed, 
FoDUd  tbe  taate  bitter  and  declined  the  reet; 
ATsrae  then  turning  from  the  light  of  day. 
She  Boftly  aigiied  her  little  aonl  away. 

The  child  that  sleeps  within  this  eilent  tomb 
Deported  at  the  end  of  two  sliort  yeaia : 

Many  will  wiah  when  the  great  Judge  Ehall  eoi 
They'd  lived  no  longer  in  this  rale  of  tears. 


This  by  Burton,  author  of  The  Anatomy  of  Mi-Tanclmly-.^ 

Can  nurse  choose  iu  her  sweet  babe  more  to  find 
Than  goods  of  Eottiine,  Body,  and  of  Mind? 
Ln  here  at  once  ail  Ihia;  what  greater  bliaa 
Canst  hope  or  wish?     Heaven.     Why  there  he  ia. 


lyGoogle 


CHUECHYARD  LITERATURE. 


Marie  was  ths  onlj  ohad  of  hor 


HISTORICAL  EPITAPH. 

A  person  of  tlie  name  of  Mary  Scott  was  ba  td  neir  tl  e 
church  of  Dalkeith,  in  1728,  for  whom  the  folio  v  n„  a  n„  la 
epitaph  was  composed,  but  never  engraved  on  1  er  tou  bst  ne 
though  it  has  been  frequently  mentioned  as  eop  ed  from  t  — 

Slop,  passenger,  nntil  mj  life  jou  rend; 
The  living  maj  get  knowledge  ftom  the  dead. 
Five  times  flvo  years  uawodded  nas  my  life ; 
KvB  times  five  years  I  waa  a  virtnoua  wifaj 
Ten  times  five  yeara  I  wept  a  widow's  woes; 
Now,  tired  of  human  soenea,  I  bera  repose. 
Betwist  my  cradle  and  my  grave  were  Been 
Seven  mighty  Kings  of  Scotland  and  a  Qoeen. 
Eull  twice  five  years  tha  Communwealth  I  saw. 
Ton  times  the  aulyocts  rise  agiunst  the  lawj 
And,  which  is  worse  than  any  oivil  war, 
A  liing  arraigned  before  tiie  subjeetii'  bax; 
Swarms  of  Eeotarians,  hot  with  hellish  rage. 
Out  off  his  royal  head  npon  the  Blage. 
Twioc  did  I  ste  old  Prelacy  pulled  down. 
And  twice  the  cloak  did  sink  beneath  the  gOwn. 
I  saw  the  Stuart  race  thrust  out,— nay,  more, 
I  saw  our  connlry  sold  for  English  orej 


Hero  lies  Dame  Mary  Page, 
Eelict  of  Sir  Gregory  Page,  Bart. 
She  departed  this  lile,  March  4th,  172S, 

In  the  56th  year  of  her  age. 
In  67  months  she  was  tapped  SB  times,  ai 
Had  taien  away  240  gallons  of  water. 


lyClOOglC 


CHURCH YAUB   LITE RATU RE- 


IT THB   OtD   hem's   BOSPITIL,   HOItmCH,   BHO. 

In  Memory  of  Mrs.  Pheba  Creive,  who  died  May  2«,  181T,  aged  Tl 
iirlil  oiue  thousand  sevto  hundred  and  thirty  children. 


Here  lyetU  the  body  of  Nictf"'  Hooker,  nho  was  the  one  and  fortiel 
child  of  his  father  by  Ali™  his  only  wife,  and  the  father  of  eeven  an 
twenty  ohildrea  by  one  ivifo.    He  died  March  20tb,  16:17. 


Mrs.  Ann  Jenainga. 
avs  children,  some  Lave 
la  the  molher  of  tnenty- 


Hora  lieth  the  body  of  Willlftni  Slrutton,  of  Paddington,  buried  May  181h, 
1734,  whu  had  by  hia  first  wife,  28  children,  and  by  a  BccODd  wit6,  17;  own 
father  fc  46,  grandfather  to  86,  graat-gcandfalher  to  SI,  and  graat-greal- 
grandliither  to  23;  in  all,  251. 


Here  lies  the  body  of  Lady  O'Looney,  great-niece  of  Burke,  commonly 
called  the  sublime.  She  was  bland,  passionate,  and  deeply  religiouaj  alao, 
the  painled  in  waier-coiors,  and  sent  several  pictures  to  the  exhibition.    She 


Hero  lietli  the  body  of  Peter  Snell,  thirty-five  yeara  elerk  of  the  pariah. 
He  liTod  respected  as  apioua  and  faithful  man,  and  died  on  his  way  to  church 
(o  asaist  at  a  wedding,  on  tho  31st,  day  of  March,  1811.  Aged  70  years. 
The  iniiahitanto  of  Orayford  have  raised  this  atone  to  his  eheerfiil  memory, 
■nd  as  a  tribute  to  his  long  and  f^thful  aervioea. 

The  life  of  this  clerk  was  jnat  threescore  and  ten. 
Nearly  half  of  whioh  time  he  bad  sung  out  Amen, 

But  hia  wife  died  one  day,  so  he  chanted  Amen. 
A  second  he  took ;  ahe  departed:  what  then? 
He  married  and  buried  a  third  with  Amen. 
Thus  his  joys  and  hia  sorrows  were  tfeble ,-  but  then 


Oath 


ould  blo-B 


well  ai 


lyClOOglC 


CHURCH  YARD  LITERATURE. 


Blihu  Tale,  (founder  of  Yale  College,)  ob.  1121,  iel 
Bom  in  America,  in  Earope  bred. 
In  Afrio  traTolled,  and  in  Asia  wed; 
Whore  long  he  lived  and  thrivod,  in  London  dead, 
Muoi  good,  some  Ul,  he  did;  so  hope  nil's  even, 
And  ihat  his  soul  through  meroy'e  gone  to  HeaTOn. 
?on  that  survive,  mid  read  this  tsle,  take  core, 
For  thia  most  certain  esit  (o  prepare. 


BELI"- WRITTEN. 


Painters  and  heralds,  by  jonr  leave. 
Here  lietbe  bones  of  Matthew  Prior, 

The  son  of  Adam  and  of  Ever- 
Let  Bourbon  or  Naaaou  go  higher  1 

It  is  said  (and  the  statement  appears  iigtly  probable)  that 
Prior  borrowed  Lis  lines  from  the  following  Tery  ancient  epi- 
taph upon  a  tombstone  in  Scotland  ; — 

Descended  from  Adam  and  Eve; 

IC.any  can  boaat  of  a  pedigree  higher, 

He  will  willinglj  give  them  leave. 


Stop,  Christian  passer-by  I  stop,  child  of  God, 

And  read  with  gentle  heart.  .  Beneath  thia  sod 

A  poet  lies,  or  tliat  which  once  seemed  he  ; — 

0  lift  a  thonght  in  prayer  for  S.  T.  C, 

That  he,  who  many  a,  year  with  toil  of  breath 

round  death  in  life,  may  here  find  life  in  death; 

Meroy  for  prfose,  to  be  forgiven  for  fame. 

He  aakod,  and  hoped  through  Christ.     Do  thou  the  same  I 

What  I  was  as  an  Arttat 
Seemed  to  me  of  some  importance 

while  I  lived; 
But  what  I  really  was  as  a  believer 

is  ihe  only  thing  of  importance 


lyClOOglC 


CHURCHYARD  LITERATURE. 


Hare  lies  aprieat  of  English  blood, 
Who,  liYiag;,  liked  wliata'er  was  good,.- 

Yot  never  hunled  after  famei 

But  as  the  first  be  still  preferred, 

So  here  he  chose  ta  l>e  interred. 

And,  uHobsQured,  from  arowds  withdre 

To  rest  among  a  choaeii  few, 

In  humble  hopes  tiiat  sovereign  lore 

Will  roise  him  to  be  bleat  above. 


d  tlie  ends  of  my  toes, 
t3  of  the  daisies. 


The  eeeentrio  Sterntold  Oakes  offered  a  reward  for  the  best 
epitaph  for  his  grave.  Several  tried  for  the  prize,  but  they 
flattered  him  too  much,  he  thought.  At  last  he  undertook  it 
himseF;  and  the  following  was  the  result : — 

Hera  lias  tha  body  of  Sternhold  Oakea, 
Who  lived  and  died  liko  other  folks. 

That  was  satisfaetory,  and  the  old  gentleman  claimed  the  prize, 
which,  as  he  had  the  paying  of  it,  was  of  course  allowed. 

MORALIZING  AND   ADMONITORY. 

Bay.  Daniel  Little,  1801. 
Memento  mori!  prasohed  his  ardent  ;oulA, 
Memento  mod  1  apoka  matarer  years ; 

Memento  mori !  nan  this  alone  deelaies. 

John  Abbot,  U93,  let.  SO. 

Serve  to  illustrate  the  frail  life  of  man ; 
And  lliey,  who  longest  liv^  survive  to  se« 
The  cartwnty  of  doatJi,  of  life  the  vanity. 

4ga 


lyClOOglC 


CHUBCHYAED  LITERATURE. 


CHUKCHriKD,   » 


Soma  only 

bre 

akfast,  and  a 

way; 

OtherB  to  dino 

er  stay,  and 

ra  fall  fed; 

The  oldest 

a  but  sups,  » 

ad  goes  to  b 

Large  hU 

ocount,  who  lin 

era  out  the 

Who  goes 

he 

Boonest,  haa 

he  least  to  I 

Like  to  th 

do 

maak  rose  jo 

usee. 

Or  tike  th 

bl 

tree. 

Or  }>ke  the 

ds 

ntrflower  I 

Mnv, 

Or  like  the 

rning  of  the  day, 

Or  like  the 

,  or  like  the 

hade. 

Or  like  the 

goard  which  Jo 

BveQ  BO  ie 

.  whoso  thre 

ad  is  spun. 

Drawn  out 

and  eut,  and  so 

ia  done. 

The  rose  « 

ra,  the  blosaom  blaatath, 

The  fioner 

as,  the  mora 

ng  hasteth  : 

The  SUD  Be 

ta, 

he  ahadow  fl 

The  gourd 

eon 

sumes,  and  n 

an  he  dies. 

IN  81 

aHAM  CHDRCHYABIV  EH6. 

Take  time 

me  while  time  doth  last, 

»ot  time  i 

no 

time  when 

me  ia  paat. 

Through  Christ,  I  am 

not 

nfer 

To  Willian 

the  Conq 

LNSHIRE,  E 

eror 

m,. 

Under  t 

is  solitary 

Rod 

There 

Whose  w 

ays  were  very  odd; 

Whatevi 

r  his  fault 

Let  them  alone. 

Let  thy 

tmost  enre 

be 

lyClOOglC 


CHDRCnYAitD   LITERATURE, 
ADVERTISING    INSCRIPTIONS   AND   NOTICES. 


Beneath  tbie  stone  in  liopea  af  Zion, 
la  laid  the  landlord  of  the  Lion. 
Resigned  unto  tha  heavenly  will, 
His  son  keeps  on  the  business  still. 

In  the  cemetery  of  Montmartre,  a  memorial  to  a  Parisian 
tradesman,  killed  in  an  6meute  in  the  earlier  part  of  the  reign 
of  Louis  Phillippe,  concludes  with  this  advertisement:— 


will  weep  npon  his  torn 
the  former  of  whom  i> 
fuDsrol  will  take  placi 
Illmaga.     P.  S.— This 


i  from  a  Spanish  jonmal: — 

summoDed  away  tbo  jeweller  Siebald  Illraagn 
d  hotter  world.  The  undersigned,  his  widow, 
will  also  bis  two  daughters,  Hilda  and  Emma, 
ried,  and  the  latter  is  open  to  an  offer.  The 
morrow.  His  diecoDBolat«  widow,  Ycronique 
irement  will  not  interrupt  our  basiness,  which 


neee  will  bi 


4  Rue  d 


UNIQUE  AND  LUDICROUS 


1!  father  lies  beneath  the  sod, 
is  spirit's  gone  unto  bis  God; 
e  nerer  more  shall  hear  his  tread, 
Of  «fs  (*e  men  nyo«  hie  head. 


But  now,  oh,  Lord, 
I  her  to  Thee  resign, 
Lain  four  obedient,  humble  eerrant,  liobert  Kemp. 


lyGoogle 


OHURCHYAED   LITEEATURE. 


lere  liea  the  bod;  of  Obndiah  WilkiDSOI 

and  Ruth,  hie  wife ; 

Their  warfare  is  acoompliBhed. 

Here  lies  the  body  of  Nancy  Qwin, 
■Who  nas  so  very  pnre  within, 
She  burst  her  outward  aheil  of  sin. 
And  hatched  herself  a  cherubim. 


Whether  this,  from  a  village  churchyard,  i 
on  Young,  is  a  ijuestiou : — 

Death  luvce  a,  shiaiog  mark. 


John  burns. 

(On  this  a  oommentator  remarks,  "Most  men  saffer  enongli  above  ground 
without  being  bunglingij  abased,  post  mortem,  in  ill-written  inaoriptions 
whioh  were  at  lea^t  inlended  to  be  civil.  We  suppose  the  words  were 
simply  intended  to  reoord  the  man's  name;  but  they  look  marvellously 
like  a  noun  substantive  coupled  with  a  verb  in  the  indicative  mood,  and 
.t  John  bvrm.     There  is  no  hint  that  John 

only  say  ua  we  road  the  startling  deolatation,  we  should 
bo  very  soriy  to  believe  it") 

In  the  church  of  Stoke  Holy  Cross,  near  Norwich,  Eng,,  is 
the  following  epitaph: — 

In  the  womb  of  this  tomb  twins  In  eipeotation  lay, 
To  be  bom  in  the  morn  of  the  ResurreotiOB  day. 


Here  lies  the  body  of  G 
Who  died  in  the  year  one  thousand  and 
Pray  for  the  soul  of  Gabriel  John, 
Ton  may,  if  you  please,  or  let  it  alone, 
Eor  it's  all  one 
To  Gabriel  John, 
Who  died  in  the  year  one  thousand  and 


lyClOOglC 


Hore  lies  the  bones  of  Eoger  Norton, 
Whoso  euddea  doath  nas  oddl;  bronght  oi 
Trjing  one  da;  his  cuma  to  mow  off. 
The  razor  elipt  iind  out  his  toa  off! 
The  toe— or,  rather,  what  it  grew  to— 
An  inflammation  quioklj  flen  to; 
The  part  then  took  to  mortifying, 
Whioh  was  the  oause  of  Roger's  djing. 


And  BO  death  lopped  off  me. 

i  stone-cutter  teceiyed  the  following  epitaph  from  a  German, 


to  be  cut  upon  the  tombstone  of  hie  wife;- 


To  all  m;  friends  I  bid  adieu, 

A  more  euddcn  death  you  neyer  kneir. 

As  I  was  leading  the  old  mare  to  drinlt. 

She  kioked,  and  liUled  me  qaioker'n  a  tvinlt. 


Hore  lies  the  boddj  of  Robert  Gordin, 

Montli  al might)'  and  teeth  aoIfordiD, 
Stranger  tread  lightly  over  this  wonder. 

If  he  opens  his  mouth,  you  are  gone  by  thunder. 


eating  green  fruit,  in  ^ope  of  a  blessed  immortality,  at  the  early  age  of 
21  years,  7  months  and  IB  days !    Reader,  '  Go  thon  and  do  likewise.' 


lyClOOglC 


CUUilCHYARD   LITER  AT  UHE. 


The  fillowing  epitaph  was  written  by  a  eeitiiii  Rev.  Dr, 
Greenwood  on  his  wife  who  died  in  chilihirth  One  hardly 
knows  which  to  admire  most,— the  merit  of  the  coup  lot  where  in 
he  celehratcs  her  couiage  and  mignan  mity  in  preferring  Liin 
to  a  lord  or  judge,  or  the  sound  advice  with  which  he  closes. 

Go,  cruel  Beotli,  thou  hajt  out  donm 
The  Mteit  areenwood  ifi  all  Ibis  kingdom  I 
Hor  Tirtuos  uud  good  guiLllIios  \rett  euch 
That  surely  she  deserved  a  lord  or  judge; 
But  her  piety  and  humility 

-  -  -    -■    nilyi 


■Whic 

h  beroio  ae 

ion 

joined  t( 

all  tlie  rest. 

Mfirt 

her  to  he  e 

hceuia  of  her 

ike  that  bi 

d,a 

e  did  erosto 

To  comfort  thos 

her  loss  hid  made  disoousolato. 

MYi- 

riaf  Ibr  her 

Thiil 

I  can  only 

r  two  lin 

Knr 

lis  and  ell 

ol,h 

IN  eye 

let  blisfeir 

bo 

applied  t 

a  Ijlng-in  « 

man's 

Rebert  Baxter  of  Farhouse,  who  died  in  1796,  was  helieved 
to  have  been  poisoned  bj  a  neighbor  with  whom  he  had  a 
violent  quarrel.  Baxter  was  well  known  to  be  a  man  of  vora- 
eioua  appetite ;  and  it  seems  that  one  inoming,  oa  going  out  to 
tho  feil,  he  found  a  piece  of  bread  and  butter  wrapped  in 
white  paper.  This  he  incautiously  devoured,  aud  died  a  few 
hours  after  in  great  agony.  The  following  Is  inscribed  on  his 
),  Knaiesdale,  Northumberland : — 

It  trill  causa  a  tender  heart  to  bleed. 


And  by  the  ma 

nlknenlulWell; 

By  bread  and 

utter  ffhieh  he'd  laid 

I,  being  harml 

93,  wfts  betrayed. 

IhiipeheKill 

■ewarrfsd  ie 

lyGoogle 


I    LITERATUEE. 


Hens  lies  Join  Quebeeca,  pfecciiUir  to  My  Lord  the  King.  When  ha  ia 
admittod  to  the  clioir  of  angelB,  whoso  Boelolj  La  will  embellish,  and  wbero 
ha  will  distinguish  himself  bj  his  power?  of  song,  Cod  ehall  say  to  Iho  angola, 
"Cease,  ye  calves!  and  let  mo  bear  John  Queljoecn,  the  pcooentor  of  My 
Lord  the  King !" 


Uore  lies  our 

SOVP 

reign  lord  ih 

kl 

IVhoEa  wor 

n- 

man  relied  on 

Who  neser  sa 

da 

oi>lisli  thing. 

And  never 

did 

wise  one. 

?BOU  A   ghayi 

STO 

E    IS   ESSEX, 

Kli 

Here  lies 

lh<i 

man  Kicburd, 

AndS 

nry 

Whose  su 

OHBsPrilnbBrd: 

ThBjl 

Kfl.! 

wiUiout  alrife 

And  tho 

n  was  plain,— 

They  a 

.nnn 

ded  in  richea. 

They  bac 

no 

A«dhuwif 

m-re  Ihc  bne 

ha. 

In  All  Siunts'  Churchyard,  Leicester,  may  be  found  the  fol- 
lowing on  two  children  of  John  Bracebridge,  who  were  both 
named  John  and  both  died  in  infancy  : — 

Both  John  and  Juhn  sooii  lost  their  livoa. 
And  yet,  by  God,  John  atill  siirvivcB. 

Bishop  Thurlow,  at  one  of  liia  vbitations,  had  the  words  6^ 
God  altered  to  through  God. 


My  grandfather  nas  buried  here. 

My  father  perished  with  infiammation  in  the  thighs. 
And  my  sister  dropped  down  dead  In  the  M 
But  the  reason  why  I'm  here  interred,  accord, 
la  owing  to  my  good  living  and  hard  c 
If,  therefore,  good  Cbriatians,  yon  wish 
Don't  drink  toe  much  wine,  brandy,  gi 


Here  lies  I,  Martin  Elmrod; 
Have  mercy  on  my  soul,  guda  God, 
As  I  would  have  on  thine  gin  I  were  Qod, 
And  thou  wart  Mnrtin  Elmrod. 


lyGoogle 


cuuRcnrAiiD  liter atuke. 


The  body  undernaath  this  atone  is 
Of  my  lal«  husband,  Jacob  Jonaa, 
Who,  when  alive,  was  an  Adonis. 

Ahl  wcU-a-day! 

0  death!  thou  spoiler  of  fait  faces. 
Why  tookst  thon  him  from  myembraeea? 
How  oouldEt  thou  mar  bo  many  graoes  ? 
Say,  tyrant,  eay. 


He  drank  hard  upon  Friday, 
That  being  a  high  day. 
Then  took  to  his  bed,  and  died  u 


And  maker  of  bellows. 
He  bellows  dLd  malto  till  the  day  of  bis  doath; 
But  he  that^ado  bellowE  could  uovei  make  breatb. 


If  I  had  had  pliysit 


h    d     h       General  Wolfe,  a  premium  was  offered  for 
I         p     ph        that  o£Seer.     One  of  the  candidates  for 
e  p  em,  of  which    the  following   stanza  ia  a 

n      — 

Ha  marohed  without  dread  or  fears. 

At  the  hoiid  of  his  bold  grenadiers; 
And  wbat  was  niore  remarkable— nay,  ierj(  parliaUar — 
He  climbed  up  rocks  that  were  perpendioular. 


lyGoogle 


LITEUATURE, 


Heare  Ijaa  onr  oaptaina,  and  major  of  Suffolk  naa  withnll, 

A  godly  magiatrale  vtbs  ha,  and  major  generall. 

Two  troops  of  hors  with  him  hero  came,  sueh  worth  his  lova  did  era 

Tea  oompanjes  of  foot  also  mouraing  maroht  to  hia  grave. 

Let  all  tiiat  read  be  sure  to  teep  the  faith  aa  he  hafh  don ; 

With  Christ  ho  Utos  how  orownd.     Hia  name  waa  Humphiy  Atherto 


a  who  was  too  poor  to  be  buried  with  relations  ii 


Here  I  lie  at  the  ohanool  door, 

For  the  fiirther  in,  the  mors  yoa  paj,— 


Tha  wedding-day  appointed  was. 
And  wedding-clothos  proridad, 

Bat  ere  the  day  did  come,  alas  I 
He  aichcnod,  and  he  dlo  did. 


John  Heath,  1761,  iet.  2?. 
While  Time  dofh  run,  from  sin  depart  i 
Let  none  e'er  shun  Death's  piercing  daitj 
For  read  and  look,  and  yon  will  see 
A  wondrous  chnuge  was  wrought  on  me. 
Sot  while  I  liTod  in  joy  imd  mirtEi, 
Grim  Death  eame  In  iuid  atn^pped  my  breath; 
For  r  waa  ainglo  in  the  morning  light. 
By  noon  was  married,  and  was  dead  at  night. 


Billin, 


I  soldier  in  the  ; 


Died  1193,  aged  114  years. 
Billeted  by  death,  I  quartered  here  remain, 
And  when  tie  trumpet  sounds.  111  rise  and  march  again. 


lyGoogle 


.CRCntAED  ■  LITERATURE. 


Prom  Dentil's  impartial  hanil. 
Aod  daath  a  broom  that  awaops  us  aU  hmhj. 


Here  lies  the  boay  of  good  Ilumphraj  Cole; 
Though  bloel!  his  name,  yet  spoUess  is  his  soult 
But  yet  not  black,  thuugh  Cai'bo  is  Ihe  name, 
Thj  ehidli  is  searcely  whiter  than  hia  faniB. 

look  heaven  b;  Elorm  when  here  his  race  was  ran. 
Tbns  ends  the  record  of  this  piuus  man  : 
Go  and  do  likewise,  render,  if  you  can. 


Xow  she  is  dead  and  cannot  stir; 

Her  cheeks  are  like  the  fodod  roa 
TVhirh  of  us  next  shall  folloir  her, 

Tha  Lord  Almighlj  only  knows. 


Through  liquid  teleaoopee  i 


Eeuder,  pass  on  1— don't  waste  your  time 
On  bad  biograpliy  and  hitter  rhyme; 
Eat  what  /  ara,  this  crumbling  clny  insnrea, 
And  what  /was,  is  no  affur  of  yours  I 


— ARor  Life's  S™ 


lyClOOglC 


CnUECIlYAUD  LITERATURE. 


The  following  illustrated  epitaph  is  copied  from  ; 
lear  Williamaport,  Pa. 


Sacred  to  fbo  memorj  of 

ilESHT    JlABlllS, 

Bora  June  27tli,  1S21,  of  Henry  Harris 

and  June  his  niffl. 

Died  on  &e  ilh  of  May,  1S37,  bj  the  kkk  of  a  oolt 

la  bis  boirels. 

Fenceikble  aod  qniet,  a  friend  to 

his  father  and  mother,  and  respected 

b;  all  iilio  knctr  him,  and  went 


't  kick,  wbere  sorrow. 


weeping 


Ta  Dorcheater,  Mass.  may  be  seen  the  following  queer  epi- 
taph on  a  young  woman  :— 

On  tba  2l8t  of  March 


And  cur  her  down  like 

A  Dutchman's  epitaph  on  his  twin  h 


Who  sboo 


So  God  ha  tool<  'em  to  live  mit  ho. 
MORTUARY  PUNS. 

Peter  Comestor,  whom  the  following  epitaph  represents  eu 
epeaking,  was  the  author  of  a  Commentary  on  the  Scriptures 
He  died  in  1198  :— 


lyClOOglC 


592  CIIUECHTARD   LITERATURE. 

I  wbo  was  once  called  Peler  [a  stone],  am  now  coveted  by  a  tlone  IperraJ ; 
and  I  who  was  onea  named  Comeefor  [deTourer],  am  now  dtmimred.  I  taught 
iwlieo  alivo,  nor  do  I  oeasa  to  tcaoh,  though  dead;  for  he  who  beholde  me  ra- 
dnced  to  ashes  maj  say, — "Thie  man  waa  oneo  what  we  aie  now;  and  whnt 
he  ia  now,  we  soon  sliall  be." 


Hon  foret  hie  aubler,  sed  super  eaaal  ei. 
Luttrel!  Wrote  the  following  on  a  man  wlio  waa  ran  over  bj 


an  omnibus ; — 

Killed  by  an  omnibna!    Why  not? 

So  quick  a  death  a  boon  is : 
Lot  not  Ma  frienda  lament  his  lot— 


One  JHwe,  and  no  morf/  how  oan  that  be? 
Why  om  More  and  no  more,  may  lie  hero  alono; 

On  the  tombstone  of  John  Fell,  superintendent  of  tho  tnrn- 
pike-roads  from  Kirby  Kendal  to  Kirby  Irleth,  are  the  follow- 
ing linea : — 


Carte  tieroe  waa  hia  life,  and  a  earte  waa  his  death, 

Hore  Ilea  the  tongue  of  Godfrey  Lill, 
Which  always  lied,  and  lies  here  alUl. 

On  the  toBibstone  of  Dr.  Walker,  who  wrote  a  wort  o 
"English  Particles,"  is  inscribeil, — 

.     Hera  lies  Walker's  Particlas. 

Dr.  Fuller's  reads, — 

Hare  lies  Fuller's  Earth. 

And  Archbishop  Potter's, — 

Alack  and  well-a-day. 

Potter  himself  ia  turned  to  clay. 


lyGoogle 


CHUUCHrAHI)   LITEEATUEE.  593 

Proposed  by  Jerrold  for  Cltarles  Knight,  the  Shaispeaiiau 
oritio: — 

Qoai  ^ight. 

On  a  well-known  Shakspearian  actor  : — 

ExiE  Burble. 

On  the  tomb  of  an  aactioneer  at  Greenwood  : — 

Going,— ffMn3,—Q0!JB !      , 

Miss  Long  waa  a  beautiful  actress  of  the  last  century,  eo 
short  in  stature  that  she  was  called  the  Pocket  Venus.  Set 
epitaph  concludes, — 

Tftough  LoDg,  jet  shorb; 
Though  short,  jet  Prett!/  Long- 
On  the  eminent  barrister,  Sir  John  Strange  : — 

Here  liea  an  honest  lawjer— that  is  Strange.     ■ 

On  William  Button,  in  a  churchyard  near  Salisbary : — 

Are  graves,  then,  dwindied  into  Batton-holaa  ? 

On  Foote,  the  comedian  ; — 

Poote  ftom  his  earthly  etago,  alas !  is  hurled ; 
Death  took  Iiim  off,  who  took  off  all  the  world. 

In  the  chancel  of  the  church  of  Barrow-on-Soar,  Leicester- 
shire, is  the  following  on  Theophilus  Cave : — 

HeM.ia  this  Grave  thero  lica  a  Cave. 

Wa  call  a  Grave  a  CflTe; 

If  Cave  be  Qrare,  and  flravs  be  Cave, 

Tben,  reader,  jndge,  I  orara, 

Whother  doth  Cave  here  Ija  in  OraTB, 

Or  Stave  here  lye  in  Cave; 

If  Grave  in  Cave  iiera  burj'd  lye. 

Then  Oravo,  where  is  thy  victory? 

Who  conquore  Death  and  buries  hie  onn  Giare. 

The  following,  in  Harrow  Churchyard,  is  aeorihed'  to  Lord: 
Byron:- 

Beneath  these  green  trsea  rising  to  tbe  skies, 
The  planter  of  them,  Isaac  Greentree,  lies; 
A  time  shall  come  when  these  greon  tieos  shall  fall, 
\nA  Isaac  Srcentree  rise  above  tbem^. 


lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD   LITERATUKE. 

!,  162*. ' 


He  onoe  ft  Sill,  waa  freeb  and  Green, 
How  nithered  is  not  to  ba  Been  ; 
Earth  in  eaitli  ehoFelled  np  is  shnt, 
A  Bill  into  a  HoU  is  put ; 
Bat  darliBonie  eartii  by  Power  DiviDC 
Brigbt  at  last  aa  tlie  san  may  eiiioe. 


lo  the  memory  of  Emma  and  Maria  Littleboy, 

tllB  twin-clliliiron  of 

George  and  Emma  Littleboy  of  Hornsey, 

who  died  Jnlj  16,  1783.    ' 

Two  little  boys  lie  bore. 


Kottljorn,  Nott  dead,  Nott  obristeaed,  Nott  begot; 
So  hcce  Bhe  lias  that  waa  and  thsit  was  Nott. 
Reader  behold  a  wondor  rarelj  wroaght, 
Whiohwhila  Ihoa  ssem'at  to  read  tboa  leadeat  Hott. 


To  aay  aa  angol  beip  interred  doth  lie. 
May  be  thought  strange,  for  angels  never  die; 
Indeed  aome  fall  from  heaven  to  bell, 

Are  lost  to  rise  no  more; 
This  only  fell  from  death  to  eaith, 
Not  lost  but  gone  before ; 
Hef  dust  lodged  bore,  ber  soul  perfect  in  grace. 
Among  saints  and  angels  now  bath  took  its  pla* 


lyClOOglC 


CHUaCHYARD   LITERATURE. 


595 


Beloe,  in  his  Anecdotes,  gives  tte  following  on  WilliamLawes, 
the  musical  composer,  who  was  killed  by  the  Roundheads  : — 

CoDcord  iseonqUBted!     In  Lis  turn  there  lias 

The  master  of  great  Music's  mjaiorlcsi 

And  in  it  is  a  riddle,  like  the  cnuEe, 

Will  Lawea  uns  sMa  by  mou  wliosa  Will«  were  Laws. 


Wbo  was  when  sleeping  even  alwayf 
A  ifnj  bj  birth  was  be,  and  jet  was 
In  life  was  tkia-kiag,  and  in  death  w 


Ob  Jihn  Afiami,  of  Soalhutell,  a  car™ 
John  Adams  lies  here,  of  tl 


who  died  of  drunhenrtfoi. — BvrOh. 
pariah  of  Soutbwoll, 
to  bis  mouth  wbII; 


Co((oni  and  oHmbrics,  all  adieu. 

And  muElins  liiu,  farewell. 
Plain,  striped,  and  figured,  old  an 


Hera  liath  Margaret,  otherwiso  Meg, 
Who  died  without  ieeue,  save  one  in  !ier  leg. 
Strange  woman  was  she,  and  e.iceedingly  ouni 
For  while  one  leg  steed  still,  the  other  kept  cu 


TTnd 

r  this  stone 

PS 

Meredith  M 

Who 

blew  the  hel 

Tobaceo  he  hated 

unwilling. 

Yet 

ever  so  plea 

ed  as  whan  pip 

a  ho  was  611 

Nnr. 

flection  on  1 

or  rude  spe 

ch  eoald  \m 

oast, 

Thou 

gh  he  made 

old  organ  g 

ve  many  a  blast. 

Nop 

nffer  was  he. 

tho 

Ha  oould  m  double  Q,  and  now  1 

ea  a  note  lower. 

lyClOOglC 


cut: RCH YARD  LITERATURE. 


Stop,  (trangec,  stop,  and  wipe  a  tear 

Though  ev 
Ho  has  at 
Famed  for 
In  doing  g 

i-laat-ing  he  has  been, 
asl  parsed  life's  /<^i  Ecene 
!00d  works,  much  time  h 
)0d,-hB  has  done  his  fair 

NE'B   OHtraOHYiRO,   1ST.B 

pas 

Daniol  Tea 

r,  Ob.  Det.  r,  ITSr,  tel.  110  ye 

Here,  fri 

n.1,  ia  littlo  Daniel's  lorn 

To  Joseph's  age  ho  did  airiva, 
Sloth  killing  thousnnda  in  their  U 

om, 

While 
Though 
His  wife 

abor  kept  poor  Dan  aliv 
tiange,  yet  true,  full  save 
was  happy  in  her  Tmn. 

ntjj 

In  the  Greek  Anthology  is  a  punning  epitaph  on  a  physician, 
by  Empedoeles,  wtio  lived  in  the  fifth  century  before  Christ. 
The  pun  eonaists  in  the  deriTation  of  the  name  Pausanias, — 
causing  a  ceaaation  of  pain  or  affliction, — and  therefore  only 
a  portion  of  the  double  meaning  can  be  preserved  in  a  transla- 

Fa'itaiAas, — not  so  named  without  a  «[iues, 
Aa  one  who  oft  has  given  to  pain  a  pause, — 
Blest  son  of  Eaonlapius,  good  and  wiae, 
Hero  in  bla  Eative  Oela buried  lies; 

From,  dark  Persephone's  oonBtraining  arms. 

OTJEIOTIS  AND   PUZZLING  EPITAPHS. 

On  the  monument  of  Sardanapalus  was  inscribed,  in  Assyrian 
characters, — 
EZOIE,  niNE,  RAIZE.     iiS  T'AAAA  TOYTOY  OYK  ASIA. 

EAT,   DRINK,   BE   MBItRY.      THE   REST   IS   NOT   WORTH   THAT  1 

meaning  a  snap  of  the  fingers,  which  is  represented  by  a  hand 
engraved  on  the  stone,  with  the  thumb  and  middle  finger  meet- 
ing at  the  top.  Caaaubon  translates  icai^eiv,  to  love  (jtacHi" 
nihil  alind  aigniflcat  nisi  epav).  Solomon  said,  all  is  vanity, 
but  not  till  he  had  eaten,  drunk,  and  loved  to  a  surfeit;  and 
Swift  left  the  woll-fenown  lines,— 


lyClOOglC 


CHUKCRYARD 


597 


Life's  a  faros,  and  all  things  show  it, 
I  thought  so  onoB,  but  now  I  know  it,— 

but  tliia  information  waa  for  the  tombj  wlien  the  capacitj  to  eat, 
drink,  and  love  was  gone. 

At  the  entrance  of  the  church  of  San  Salvador,  in  the  citj 
of  Oviedo,  in  Spain,  is  a  remarkable  tomb,  erected  by  a  prince 
named  Silo,  with  a  very  curious  Latin  inscription,  wiiioh  may 
be  read  two  hundred  and  seventy  ways,  by  beginning  with  the 
capital  S  in  the  centre  : — 


On  the  tomb  are  inscribed  these  letters : — 

H.   B.  E.    B.   S.    T.   T.   L. 

Which  are  the  initials  of  the  following  Latin  words : — 

Hie  aitna  est  Silo,  sit  tibi  terra  lovia. 
[  Here  lies  Silo.     Maj  the  earth  lie  lightl;  upon  him.] 


The  middle  line  furnishes  the  terminal  letters  or  syllables  of 
the  words  iu  the  upper  aud  lower  lines,  and  when  added  they 
read  thus : — 


Eu3  sauguia  Christi  miro  tui 
[Tboee  ntio  hare  felt  the  setp 
In  Chriafa  miraonloas  blood 


lyClOOglC 


OHURCHYAEIl  LITEBATUKB. 


bis     bia    abit 


Mos    eris    quod    ego    nuno. 

Taking  the  position  of  the  words  in  the  first  line,  whioh  are 
placed  above  or  over  (super)  those  in  the  second,  and  noting 
the  repetition' of  thesyllahles  m  and  ram  thrice  (ter),  and  the 
letter  i  twice  (bis),  the  reading  is  easy. 

0  eiiperbe  quid  ewperbis?  tua  superbia  te  SMperabit.  TeriA 
ea  et  in  ierram  ibis.     Mox  eria  quod  ego  nunc. 


(Maj  he  read  bMkwarda  or  forwards,  up  or  down.) 
Sball  ne  all  die? 
We  shall  dis  all. 
All  dia  shall  no,— 


John  Wales,  ob.  1694. 
Qaod  fuitesse,  quod  est; 
Quod  uon  talt  esse,  qaod  esse) 
BssB  quod  est,  non  est; 

[Wliot  was  eiiatence,  la  that  whioh  lies  hare;  that  whioli  was  nut  exiateu 
Is  that  whioh  is  existence;  to  bo  what  is  now  is  not  to  be;  that  whioh  is  ni 
is  not  eiiatence,  but  will  be  bereaftec] 

Or  thus  :— 
Tbat  whieb  a  being  was,  what  is  it?  show ; 
That  being  whioh  it  was,  it  is  not  now; 
To  bo  wbat  is,  is  not  to  be,  jou  sea ; 
That  which  now  is  not  shaU  a  being  be. 

nabeo,  dedi  quod  alieri; 
Habulqua  quod,  dedi  mihi; 
Bed  quod  reliqui,  perdidi. 
[What  I  gme,  I  have; 
What  I  spent,  I  had; 
What  I  aared,  I  lost,] 


lyClOOglC 


LITERiTURE. 


The  chornel  toouD 

ed  on  the  w 

gete  to  be  SWB  in 

Hot  slow,  not  gay, 

Yet  neighborly  an 

,  yet  living 

Har  sixty -seron  til 

To  rest  her  body  n 

atuc 

se  spin 


K  174S. 


Tb  witlj  mortals,  aa  you'ro  passing  by. 
Remark  (hat  near  this  moDnment  doth  lie, 
Centered  in  dust, 
Two  husbands,  two  wires. 

Two  sistara,  two  brothers, 
Two  Mbera,  a  son, 

Two  daughters,  two  motbera, 
A  grandfather,  grandmother,  and  a  granddaughter/ 
An  anolB,  im  aant,  and  their  niece  followed  after. 
This  catalogne  of  persona  mandoned  bore 
Was  only^M,  and  aU  from  Incest  olear. 


Rev.  Dr.  Conyers  expired  immediately  after  the  delivery  of 
a  sermon  from  the  text,  "Ye  shall  see  my  face  no  more,"  set. 
02,  1786. 

Seat  by  Iheir  Lord  on  purposes  of  grace. 

Thus  angals  do  his  will,  and  see  bis  face; 

With  outspread  wings  they  stand,  prepared  to  Soar, 

Declaro  their  massage,  and  are  seen  no  mora. 

Underneath  is  a  Latia  inscription,  of  which  the  following  ia 
ft  translation ; — ■ 

I  have  sinnod, 

I  repeotad,  I  believed, 

I  have  loved,  I  rest, 

I  shall  rise  agmn. 

And  by  the  grace  of  Christ) 

However  unworthy, 

I  shall  reign. 


lyGoogle 


600  CHURCHTAED  LITERATOKE. 

EAKALLELa  WITHOUT   A  PAEAHBl. 

Od  tbe  north  side  of  this  cliDrch  tti  m  um  nt  f  two  broluers  of  the 
(uraame  Olatko,  wherewilli  I  was  takna  tk  tliinl  muat;  and  as  I 
fonnd  them  I  praj  accept  them. 

Thus  an  union  of  two  brothers,  fr  m  A      gt  n  th    Clarkes'  femily,  were 
grandfathat,  father,  and  sou,  guDce  SI    1       II      flh    Frivf  Seals  ia  Court. 
The  grandfather  had  hut  two     us,  hoth  Th  mas 
Xhoir  wives  hoth  Arajs, 


And  both  had  two  aona  and  one  daughter. 

And  hoth  their  daughters  iasuelesse. 

Both  of  Osford ;  both  of  tho  Tompio ; 

Both  officers  to  Queen  Elixahoth  and  o*  nohle  Eiug  James. 

And  both  Justices  of  the  Peaee. 

Togeather  both  agree  in  armes,  one  a  knight,  ;■  other  a  capt^n. 

Si  qufflras  plura;  hoth — ;  and  so  I  leave  j". 

BATHOS, 


So  fell  the  royal  oak  bj  a  wild  crew 

Of  mongrel  shrubs,  that  underneath  him  grew; 

So  fell  the  lion  by  a  pack  of  ours ; 

So  the  rose  withered  'twixC  a  knot  of  burs; 

So  fell  the  eagle  by  a  swarm  of  gnats; 

So  the  whale  perished  l)y  a  shoal  of  sprats  I 

TRANSCENDENT  AL. 


m  by  a  Swedenborgiam  named  Malon,  on  his  children. 
Innocence  cmbelliEhcs  diTlncly  complete 
To  preaeienee  co-egent  now  sublimely  great 
In  tho  benign,  perfecting,  rivifying  state. 
So  heavenly  guardian  occupy  the  skies 
The  pre-esistent  God,  omnipotent,  all-wise ; 
He  shall  surpassingly  immortalize  thy  theme 
And  permanent  tby  bliss,  celestial,  supreme. 
When  gracious  refulgence  bids  the  grave  resign, 
Tho  Creator's  nursing  protection  be  thine; 
Then  each  perspiring  ether  shall  joyfolly  rise 
Transccndentlygood,  supereminently  wise. 


lyGoogle 


LITEEATURE.  601 

CENTO. 

On  the  tombstone  of  Eabbi  Judali  Monis,  40  years  Hebrew 
Instructor  in  Harvard  University,  who  was  converted  to 
Christianity  in  1732,  and  died  in  1764. 

A  native  branob  of  Jacob  sea, 

Which  onee  iVom  off  its  olive  brokoj 
Eegtafted  from  tha  liring  tniB,  Roni.  si.  17,  24. 

Of  the  reviving  sap  pnrtook. 
From  teemmg  Zion'a  fortile  womb,  Isa.  Ixvi.  8. 

As  dewy  drops  in  early  morn,  Pa.'os.  3. 

Or  rising  bodies  from  the  tomb,  John  v.  28,  29. 

At  oneo  be  iBrnel's  nation  born.  Isa,  Isvi.  S. 

ACBOSnOAL. 


I  noloEfld  within  this  shrine  ia  pieoioui 
A  nd  only  waits  the  rising  of  ibe  just; 
M  ost  usefiil  while  he  lived,  adorned  his 
B  von  to  old  age  served  his  genemtion, 
G  incB  his  decease  thought  of  with  voni 


w  groat  a  blessing  this 


ling  el 


U  nio  this  church  and  town  and  pastors  three  1 
.    M  ather,  the  first,  did  by  him  help  receive; 
I"  Knthedid  next  hia  burden  much  relievBi 
R  enowned  Danforth  did  he  assist  with  slcill, 
E   alccmadhighby  all,  bear  ihiit  until, 
X  lelding  to  death,  his  glorious  seat  did  Ell. 


'-'  John  Broolie  of  the  Parish  of  Ashe, 
O  Only  he  is  nowe  gone, 
n  His  days  are  post;  his  corps  is  layd 
65  Now  under  this  mifrblo  stone. 
W  Brookalrete  he  waa  the  lienor  of, 

O  Only  bccauaa  he  had  no  sede 
O  Or  children  to  have  the  same; 
R  Knowing  that  ail  must  pasa  away, 
B  Even  when  God  will,  none  can  donay. 
He  paaaed  to  God  in  the  yere  of  Grace 
One  thousand  ft-ve  hundredth  fewer  score  and  two 
The  sixteenth  daye  of  January,  I  loll  now  plu,jno. 
The  ij-ve  and  twentieth  yore  of  Elizabeth  rayne. 
51 


lyClOOglC 


602  OHUROHYABT 

ABOBIQINAI.. 

Here  lies  Iha  bodj  of  Susseeto, 

Ona  San  to  Uncaa,  grandson  to  Oneehe, 

■Who  were  the  femous  sachems  of  Mohaagan, 

OBOMO,  CHIEF   OF  THH    PENOBSCOIS,  OLOTOHN,  MIIHB,  1801,  XT.  113 

Safo  lodged  wilhln  his  blanket,  hero  bolow. 
Lie  the  last  relies  of  old  Onoso; 
Worn  down  with  tail  luid  care,  he  in  a.  trice 
Gsehaogod  his  irignniu  far  a  paradise. 

AFKICAN. 

God  wills  as  free;  man  wills  ns  slaves.  I  will  as  God  wills:  God's  will  be 
dona.  Here  lies  the  hody  of  John  Jack,  a  native  of  Africa,  who  died,  March, 
irT3,  agsd  aliont  60  years.  Xliough  born  in  a  land  of  slavery,  he  was  born 
froei  though  he  lived  in  a  land  of  liberty,  he  lived  a  slave,  till,  bjhls  honest 
though  stolen  labors,  he  aoquired  the  sonrce  of  slavery,  which  gave  him  his 
freedom,  though  jiot  long  before  death,  the  grand  tyrant^  gava  him  his  final 
emancipaUoE,  and  set  him  on  a  footing  with  kings.  Thoueh  a  slave  to  vice, 
he  practised  those  virtues,  without  which,  kings  are  but  slaves. 


A  place  among  the  just. 
His  f!uthM  soul  is  Sed  i 

To  realms  of  heavenlj  light; 
And  bj  the  blood  that  Jesus  shed. 

Is  changed  from  black  to  whits 
January  15,  he  quitted  the  stage. 
In  the  irih  year  of  his  aga. 

HIBEHNIAN. 

Here  lies  John  Higley,  whose  father  and  mother  were 

drowned  in  their  passage  ftom  America. 
Had  they  both  Ihed,  they  imtdd  hcaie  heen  baried  hert.l!) 


lyGoogle 


CHUKCHTARD   LITERATUEB. 

0  oruel  Doatli !  how  could  jou  be  bo  nnkind. 
To  take  him  before  and  leave  me  liehind? 
You  should  JiavB  taken  both  of  he  if  either,- 
WMoh  would  liaive  been  more  pleasing  to  tho  s 

Here  lies  father  and  motlier,  and  sister  and  I,- 
Thej  all  died  within  the  short  epaoe  of  one  je 
Thaj  all  be  buried  at  Wimble  but  I, 
And  I  bo  buried  hero. 


Breoted  by  Patriot  Kelly, 
Of  the  town  of  Drogheda,  Marin 
In  Memory  of  his  Posterity, 
triek  Kelly, 
Who  depai 


Life  the  121h  August  184*, 
60  years, 


Here  lyaa  the  Bodeys  of  George  Young  and  Isabel  Guthrie,  and  all  their 
Posterity  for  mote  than  fifty  yeara  backwards. 


Hare   lies   the   body   of  Jamos   Vernon, 
Admiral  Vernon :    died  23rd  July  17S3. 


The  14th  of  August  'eisty-flve. 
GHEEK  EPITAPHS. 

Christopher  North,  speaking  of  the  celebrated  epitaph  writ- 
ten by  Simonides  and  graved  on  the  monument  erected  in 
eommemoration  of  the  battle  of  Thermopylse,  aaja: — The  oldest 
and  best  inscription  ia  that  on  the  altar-tomb  of  the  Three 


lyClOOglC 


604  CHUBcnrARD  literature. 

Hundied,.  Here  it  is, — the  Greek, — wit!i  three  Latio  and 
eighteen  English  versions.  Start  not;  it  is  but  two  lines;  and 
all  Greece,  for  centuries,  had  them  by  heart.  She  forgot  them, 
and  "Greece  was  living  Greece  no  more!" 

Of  the  varioiia  English  translations  of  this  celebrated  epitaph, 
the  following  are  the  best : — ■ 

0  etraagor,  tell  it  to  the  liocediemoniana, 

That  we  lie  hero  in  obedience  to  their  prBOapfs. 

Go  tell  the  Spartans,  thou  who  passest  by, 

Thoit  here,  obedient  to  their  laws,  we  lie. 


Miitiades  !  thy  valor  best 
(Although  in  every  region  iinown) 

The  men  of  Persia  ean  attest, 
Tanglit  by  thyself  at  Marathon. 

ON   THB    TOUB 

or   THUUISTOCLBS. 

By  the  sea's  margin,  on 
Thy  monument,  Themi 
By  this  directed  lo  thy 
The  merchant  ehall  con 
And  when  oar  fleets  are 
Athens  shall  conquer  n 

the  watery  strand, 
toelea,  shall  stand. 

native  shore, 

vey  his  freighted  store ; 

[h  this  tomb  in  eight. 

Hm),  universal  mother 
On  that  dead  form 

Which  when  with  life  i 
Its  fellow-worm. 

lightly  rest 
vested  ne'er  opprest 

ON   n 

MOCRITUS. 

Timoeritus  adorne  this  humble  grave; 

Mars  spares  the  eoward,  and  destroys  tha  brave. 

OH   TWO    NEl 

HROnraG    TOMBS. 

This  is 
Thus  se 

sailor's— that  a 
and  land  abid 

ploughman's  tomb; — 

lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD  LITERATURE. 


Vain  aorrOHBl  vaiaregrotal  jat,  lovclieal,  thee, 

Tbee  etill  Ihey  folloiv  in  tlm  silent  nra. 
Retracing  hours  of  aooial  oonverae  (Vse, 

Aod  sofl  endeurmeats  nerer  tj)  return. 
How  thou  art  torn,  aweet  flower,  that  amiled  ao  &ir! 

Tom,  and  th;  honored  bloom  with  duat  defiledj 
Yet,  holy  eaith,  neccpt  mj  euppllaut  prayoc, 

And  in  a  mother's  arms  enfold  thy  child. 


We  will  not  looli  on  her  burial  sod 
As  tbe  cell  of  sepulchral  sleep ; 
It  shall  be  aa  the  shrine  of  a  radiant  gc 
And  the  pilgrim  aball  lisit  this  bleat  al 

And  as  he  turns  his  steps  nalde, 

Thus  shall  he  breathe  his  tow  :-^ 
Here  slept  n  seif-deroted  bride; 
Of  old,  to  aavo  her  lord  she  died. 


At  threescore  irint«ra'  end  I  died, 
A  ebeerleas  being,  aole  and  sad; 

Xhe  noptial  inot  I  naver  tied, 
And  wish  my  father  never  bad. 

My  name,  my  country,  what  ore  they  to  th 
What,  whether  base  or  proud  my  pedigree  1 
Perhaps  I  ihr  surpassed  all  other  men  ; 
Perhaps  r  fell  below  them  all,— what  then] 
Suffice  it,  stranger,  that  thou  seest  a  tomb,' 
Thou  know'st  its  nae,. — it  hides, — no  mattei 


lyGoogle 


LITERATtrRU. 


ANTITHESIS   EXTEAORDINABT. 

siDgular  inscription  may  be  seen  on  a  moi 
Down  Churchj  Cumberland,  Englaad ; — 


Thomas  Bond  and  Mary  hia  wife. 

f!li«™ 

temperate,  chaste,  aad  charitabla. 

But 

SheK 

lis  proud,  peevish,  and  poaaionalB. 

Shew 

13  an  affeetionatB  wife  and  a  tender 

mother. 

But 

ecliuBl) 

nd  and  child,  irbom  she  loved,  seldom 

B 

disgusting  frown; 

■Whilst  she  received  visitors  whom  she  despised 

with  an  endearing  smilo. 

Her  behaviour  was  discreet  towards  strangers, 

But 

Imprudent  in.  her  Ihmily. 

Abroad  her  oonduot  was  influenced  bj  good 


Dispensed  plonty  to  every  person  in  her  family. 

But 

Would  sacrifice  their  eyes  to  a  farthing  candle. 

Slie  EometimiH  made  her  buaband 

Happy  with  her  good  qualities. 

But 

Mneli  mOre  ireijuently  miserable  with  her 

Insomuch  tliat  Id  tliitty  years'  oohabita.tion. 

He  often  lamented  ibat, 

Maugre  all  iier  virtues, 

He  had  not  on  the  whole  enjoyed  two  years 

Of  matrimonial  comfort 


lyClOOglC 


OmJECHTAOD  IITERATDIIE. 

At  length, 

Finding  she  bad  lost  the  nffeetlon  of  her  hue- 

band,  ne  wall  as  Ihe  regard  of  her  noigli- 

bora,  family  disputes  having  boon 

divulged  by  servants, 

She  died  of  vasation,  July  20, 1768, 

Aged  4S  years. 

Har  wom-out  husband  Enrvived  her  four  monthi 

and  two  days,  and  departed  this  life 

ir  22, 1763, 


Willia] 


Intl 


54th  yi 
Bond,  brother 


.0  the  daoeaaad. 


Weakly  monitor  to  tho  wives  of  fhia  pariah, 

Thai  they  may  avoid  the  infamy  of  having 

Their  memories  banded  down  to  posterity 

With  a  ptttobwork  charnflter, 

THE  printer's  EPITAPH, 

Beneath  Ibis  ftanjt  with  inVrs  oTergrown; 
How  many  cases  far  unnorthier  tit 
'Seath  some  imposiag  aUaie  I 

Bo  aculpjjired  cupt  his  hiaWry  declare) 
Although  he  lived  a  folloirer  of  the  crom, 

And  member  of  the  har^ 
Ihe  golden  rule  ho  prized. 

And  left  it  aa  a  token  of  hia  loTe; 
And  all  bis  deoda,  corrected  aud  revised, 


The  proofs  of  all  hia  yi-ety  are  tiiere. 
And  the  fait  title,  which  to  trutii  belongs. 

Will  prone  his  tide  fair- 
Though  now,  in  death's  em-trace, 

A  Jtioudi-eriiig  Aenp  our  lueklcas  brottiet  Ilea, 
He'll  re-appear  on  Gabriel's  rosai-ehaie, 

And  friak-it  to  the  skies. 


lyClOOglC 


bOa  CHUECHYARD   LITERATUEE. 

The  epitaph  on  Dr.  Cuius,  the  fouader  of  the  college  wMeh 
bears  his  name,  cannot  be  blamed  ftr  prolixity.  I>r.  Fuller 
remavks,  "few  men  might  have  had  a  longer,  noae  ever  had  a 
shorter  epitaph." 

Fni  Caiua 

(I  vras  Caiua) 

ON    ME.- MAGINNIS. 

Finis 

MaginniB. 

Camden,  in  his  Remaines, — a  collection  of  fragmenta  illus- 
trative of  the  habits,  manners  and  customs  of  the  ancient  Britons 
and  SaKons, — gives  examples  of  great  men  who  had  little 
epitaphs.  For  himself  it  has  been  suggested  that  the  name  of 
the  work  in  qaestion  would  be  the  most  fitting: — 

Camden's  RemaiDB. 
LAUDATOET. 

Following  the  inscription  to  the  memory  of  Albert,  Prince 
Consort,  on  the  Cairn 'at  Balmoral,  is  the  following  quotation 
from  the  Wisdoin  of  Solomon,  iv.  13,  14. 


For  his  soul  plcafiedtbe  Lord! 

Theroforc  hnstea  He  to  tske 

Him  avray  ffom  among  the  wieied. 

Could  he  diaelo 
The  tbinga  bay 
We  more  ahcnld 
But  know  DO  be 

e  who  rests  below, 
nd  the  grave  that 
laarn  than  now  w 
tier  hi'^  to  die. 

know, 

Dust  to 
Soult 

They  tha 
Homo 

9  narrow  iouae  beneath, 
its  place  on  higb; 
t  have  Been  th;  look  in  dentil, 

Hia  youth  was  innooent— his  riper  age 

Marked  with  soma  act  of  goodness  every  day; 

And  natehed  by  eyea  that  loved  him,  calm  and  eage, 
faded  hia  late  declining  yeare  anay; 

Cheerful  he  gnve  hia  being  up,  and  went 
lo  share  the  boly  rest  that  waits  a  life  well  spent. 


lyGoogle 


LITEEATUBE. 


CHEMICTIM. 


Here  lletli  to  digest,  m 


d  maalgamara  wIUi  clay, 


OF  A  CHEMIST. 

A  man  who  in  bis  esrthl;  Lnbornlor; 

Pursued  varions  pFocseses  to  obUun 

Tho  Arcahum  Vit*, 

Or  tie  secret  to  Liva; 

Also  tlie  AuHDM  ViT^i  or 

The  Art  of  getting,  not  mating,  Gold. 

AIohemiBt-like,  he  saw  all  his  labor  and  prnjoetic 

As  mercui;  in  tha  fire,  erapprated  in  flime. 

When  he  dissolred  to  his  first  principles. 

He  departed  es  poor 

As  the  last  drops  of  an  alembic 

Though  fond  of  novelty,  lie  oarefully  aroided 

The  fermentation,  efferrescence,  and 

Decrepitation  of  this  lift. 

Pull  seventy  years         '    ' 

His  exalted  esaence 

■Was  hermeUcally  soaled  in  its  terrene  matrass 

But  the  radical  moisture  being  exhausted, 

The  Elisir  Vilie  spent, 

And  exsiccated  to  a  cuticle. 

He  oonld  not  suspend  longer  In  h!s  vehicle: 

Bat  preoipitatad  gradaam, 


>1  dusL 


esplende 


in  phosphorus,. 


From  the  athanor,  empyreuma,  and 

Revecberatoiy  furnace  of  the^ther  world; 

Depurate  him  from  the  fieces  and  eeoriaof  this; 

Highly  rectify  and  volaljliae 

Bring  it  safely  out  of  the  crucible  of  earthly  trial, 

PlnoB  it  in  a  proper  recipient 

Among  the  elect  of  the  Elowera  of  Benjamin ; 

Never  to  be  saturated  till  the  general  resuscitation, 

Deflagration,  ealcination. 

And  sablimation  of  all  things. 


lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD   LITERATURE. 
MISCELt,ANE0U8, 


our  weeping  eyas, 
aorttl  teaches ; 

n  one-hulf  my  speeahea. 


liie  oHtside  Casu  of 

Qeobob  RonTLEiQH,  WiLtobraitlceT; 

Integrity  was  tha  Mainspring,  and  pradenoe  tl 

Regulator, 

of  olUhs  actions  of  Ms  life. 

Humnro,  gonerous,  and  liberal, 

bis  Hujid  Devec  atopped, 

till  be  had  reliaved  distress. 

So  nicely  regulated  were  oU  bis  Motione, 

that  he  never  went  wrong, 


Even  then  be  was  easily 

set  riglit  again. 

He  had  tbe  art  of  disposing  his  time  so  well, 

that  his  Hours  kept  running  on 

in  a  continual  round  of  pleasure, 

till  an  unlueliy  Minuto  put  a  atop  to 

He  departed  this  life  Nov.  14, 1802,  sat  67, 

in  bopos  of  being  taken  in  band 

by  his  Maker,- 

and  of  being  tliorongbly  Cieaned,  Repaired', 

Wound  up,  and  Sot  a-golng 

in  the  world  to  ooma. 


I  was  drowned,  alaa  !  in  the  deep,  drop  sei 
The  hleaaed  Lord  does  as  he  pleases. 
But  my  Kittory  friends  did  soon  appear. 
And  laid'  my  body  right  down  here. 


lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD 


A.D.  1643,  ^ talis  auie  I2o. 
Here  lies  Dt.  ;Ward,  whom  you  liuew  well  before 
He  was  kiod  to  his  neighboTS,  good  to  the  poor 

To  God,  to  Prince,  "Wife,  kindred,  friend,  the  p. 


Beligioi 


.ind,  St 


Quo  die  afflaTit  animam  Thns.  Coiter,  prtedictuB, 

Aoua  foramen  trnnaivit  Oamelus  Sudburiensis. 

Vado,  at  Ei  diras  sis,  tu  fao  Bimililer. 

VBle. 

(Traveller,  I  will  relate  a  prodigy.     On  the  day  whereon  tie  aforeSMd 

ThoB,  Carter  breathed  out  his  soul,  &  Sudbury  camol  paesed  through  the 

eye  nf  a  needle.     Gu,  and  if  thnu  art  wenKhy,  dn  thou  likewise.     Pare- 

well.> 


.    Whoao  genteel  address  and  assiduity 

in  Toaohing 

Eeeommendod  him  to  all  that  kad  the 


From  the  Latin. 
Beneath  this  atone  the  mouldering  relics  lie 

Ofoneto  whom  Keligiouapoke  in  vain; 
He  lived  as  though  ho  never  were  to  die. 

And  died  a£  though  he  ne^ar  should  live  ag^D. 


lyGoogle 


LITERATURE 


la  Lietona  pnmis, 

In  pliUosopliia  minimus. 

In  religione  Bullua. 

Hnme,  the  clasaio  historian  of  England,  denied  the  existence 
of  matter,  and  held  that  the  whole  congeries  of  material  things 
are  but  impressiona  and  ideas  in  the  mind,  distinguishing  an 
impression  from  an  idea  by  its  stronger  effect  on  the  thinking 
faculty.  Dr.  Beattie  aufB.oientIy  exposed  the  absurdity;  but 
his  famous  essay  has  nothing  more  pointed  than  the  witty  epi- 
taph that  somebody  wrote  on  the  marble  shaft  that  stands  oyer 
the  infidel's  grave : — 

Beneath  this  circnlar  idea,  rulgorl?  called  tomb, 
Iiapretaioni  and  ideal  rest,  which  coaatitnted  Hume. 


Tom  Poine  for  the  DbtiI  ia  surelj  a  match. 

In  leaving  old  England  he  eheatod  Jnok  Ketch  ; 

In  Fcenoa  (the  Brat  time  auah  a  thing  had  been  Eean) 

Ho  ohaatad  the  watoLfnl  and  sharp  guillotine; 

And  at  last,  to  the  sorrow  of  all  the  beholders. 

He  marched  out  of  life  with  hia  head  on  his  shoulders. 

■      EARTH   TO  EARTH. 

Few  persons  have  met  with  the  following  poem,  now  nearly 
four  oonturies  old ;  but  many  will  recognise  in  soma  of  the 
stanzas,  particularly  the  first  four  and  the  last  four,  the  source 
of  familiar  monumental  inscriptions.  The  antiquary  can  refer 
to  many  a  dilapidated  stone  on  which  these  quaint  old  lines 
can  yet  be  traced. 

Vddo  mori  Rei  anm,  qaid  honor  qnid  gloria  mnndi, 
Est  vita  mors  hominnm  regis — vado  mori. 

Mortem  non  didioi  vincere  vado  morL 
Vado  mori  medicne,  mcdicamine  non  relOTandus, 


lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD   LITERATURB, 

Earth  out  of  earth  ia  worldly  wroaght ; 

Earth  hntb  gotten  upon  earth  a  dignity  of  nought] 

Eofth  upon  earth  has  sot  all  his  thought, 

How  that  earth  npoii  eaith  might  be  high  brought. 

Eucth  upon  earth  woold  ha  a  liing, 
£nt  how  thai  eatth  shall  to  earth  he  tliinltcth  no  Ihhig 
Whan  earth  biddeth  earth  his  rents  ^lomo  bring. 
Then  Bhall  eaith  from  earth  Lava  a  hard  parting, 

Barth  upon  earth  nianoth  castles  and  toners, 
Than  aaith  earth  nnto  earth  this  is  all  ours; 
Bnt  when  earth  upon  earth  has  bnilded  hla  bowera. 
Then  shall  earth  upon  earth  suffer  hard  sbowera. 

Earth'  upon  earth  hath  wealth  upon  mould  ; 
Earth  goeth  upon  earth  glittering  all  in  gold. 
Like  as  he  unto  earth  never  tarn  should ; 
And  jet  shall  earth  uuto  earth  sooner  than  he  would. 


Why  that  earth  loveft  ei 
Or  why  that  earth  will  fi 
For  when  earth  upon  ear 
Thai  shall  earth  for  eart 


I  wondar  I  thint, 

larth  sweat  and  swink. 

is  brought  within  the  brink. 


And  3B  earth  upon  aarth  in  honor  did  shine  ; 

And  their  gowns  laid  in  the  earth  wbea  death  hath  made  hia  I 

As  earth  upon  earth  full  worthy  was  Joshua, 
Darid,  and  worliy  King  Judas  Maceabee, 
They  wera  bat  earth  none  of  them,  three  ; 
"  And  BO  ih>ni  earth  unto  earth  they  left  their  dignity. 


Arthur  was  hut  es 


And  thus  earth  gueth  to  earth  b;  short  conclusion. 
Whoso  reokona  alao  of  William  Conqueror, 
King  Henry  the  Eirst  that  waa  of  knighthood  flow 
Earth  hath  olosed  them  full  straitly  in  hie  bower,— 


lyGoogle 


CHURCHYARD   LITEEATUEB. 

Now  ye  that  live  npon  «arth,  both  jonng  and  olS, 
Think  how  ye  siioU  to  earth,  be  ja  never  eo  bold; 
Ye  be  nnailier,  whather  it  be  in  Leat  or  ooU, 
Lifee  as  jour  brethren  did  before,  aa  I  have  told. 

Now  ya  folks  that  be  hen  ye  ma;  not  long  enduTS, 
But  that  ye  shall  turn  to  earth  I  do  you  ensure; 
And  if  JO  list  of  the  truth  to  see  a  plain  figure, 
Go  to  St  Paul's  and  see  Iha  portraiture. 

All  is  earth  and  shall  to  earth  as  it  sheweth  there, 
Therefore  ore  dreadful  death  with  his  dart  yon  dare, 
And  for  to  turn  lute  earth  no  man  shall  it  forbear, 
■Wisely  purrey  you  belbro,  and  thereof  have  no  fear. 
Now  aith  by  dealb  we  shall  all  pass,  it  ia  to  us  certain. 
For  of  earth  we  oome  all,  and  to  the  earth  shall  turn  a; 
Therefore  to  Itcire  or  grodge  it  were  but  vain, 
For  an  is  earth  and  shall  he  earth,— nothing  more  cert 


■  BraON'S  INSCRIPTION  ON  THE    MONUMENT   OF   HJSl  DOO. 
Near  this  spot 
Are  deposited  the  remains  of  one 
Who  possessed  beauty  withont  vanity, 
Strengtii  witliout  insolence. 
Courage  witliout  ferocity, 
And  all  the  virtues  of  man  withont  his  vieee. 
This  praise,  whteh  would  be  unmeaning  flattery 
If  inscribed  over  human  ashes, 
Is  but  a  just  tribnte  to  the  memory  of 
Boi 
Who  was  born  a( 
And  died  at  New 


lyClOOglC 


INSCKIPTIONS. 


Inscriptions. 


The  tlm-d  and  bool.—SHHih  Apollo,  1710. 

The  absurdities  which  taTern-signs  present  are  often  curious 
enough,  but  may  in  general  he  traced  to  that  inveterate  propen- 
sity which  the  vulgar  of  all.  countries  have,  to  make  havoc  with 
every  thing  in  the  shape  of  a  proper  name.  What  a  magpie 
could  have  to  do  with  a  crown,  or  a  vihale  with  a  crow,  or  a 
lien  with  a  razor,  it  is  as  difficult  to  conjecture  as  to  trace  the 
corruption  of  language  in  which  the  eonaeetion  more  probably 
originated.  The  sign  of  the  leg  and  the  seven  stars  was  merely 
an  orthographical  deviation  from  the  leagvs  and  seven  stars,  or 
seven  united  provinces ;  and  the  axe  and  hottle  was,  douhtless, 
a  transposition  of  the  hatth-axe,  a  moat  appropriate  sign  for 
warlike  times  The  lun  and  lute  formed  suitahle  emblems, 
enough  of  the  pleasures  of  wine  and  music.  The  (ogle  and 
child,  too,  had  meaning,  though  no  application ;  but  when  we 
come  fo  the  shovel  and  boot,  nonsense  again  triumphs,  and  it  is 
in  vain  that  we  look  for  any  rational  explanation  of  the  affinity. 

The  Swanr^itA-fioo-necis  has  long  been  an  object  of  mystery 
to  the  curious.  This  mystery  is  solved  by  the  alteration  of  a 
eingle  letter.  The  sign,  as  it  originally  stood,  was  the  'iioan 
loith  livo  "nicks;  the  meaning  of  which  we  find  thus  explained 
in  a  communication  made  by  the  late  Sir  Joseph  Banks  to  tlie 


lyGoogle 


616  iNscRiriroNs. 

Antit[iiarian  Society.  Sir  Joseph  presented  to  the  Society  a 
ourious  parchment  roll,  exhibiting  the  marks,  or  nicks,  made 
on  the  beaks  of  swans  and  cygnela  in  all  the  rivers  and  lakes 
in  Lincolnshire,  accompanied  with  an  account  of  the  privileges 
of  certain  persons  keeping  swans  in  these  waters,  and  the  duties 
of  the  king's  swanherd  in  guarding  these  fowls  from  depreda- 
tion and  preventing  any  two  persons-  from  adopting  the  same 
figures  or  marks  on  the  bills  of  their  swans.  The  number  of 
marks  contained  in  the  parchment  roll  amounted  to  two  hun- 
dred and  nineteen,  all  of  which  were  different  and  confined  to 
the  small  extent  of  the  bill  of  the  swan.  The  outlines  lyere  an 
oblong  square,  circular  at  one  end,  and  containing  dots,  notches, 
arrows,  or  suchlike  figures,  to  constitute  tlie  difference  in  each 
man's  swans.  Laws  were  enacted  so  late  as  the  12th  of  Eliza- 
beth, for  the  preservation  of  the  swans  in  Lincolnshire. 

The  goo,t  and  compasses  has  been  supposed  to  have  its  ori- 
gin in  the  resemblance  between  the  bounding  of  a  goat  and  the 
expansion  of  a  pair  of  compass^;  but  nothing  can  be  more 
fanciful.  The  sign  is  of  the  days  of  the  Commonwealth,  when 
it  was  fiishionable  to  give  scriptural  names  to  every  thing  and 
everybody,  and  when  God-he-praued  Barebones  preferred 
drinking  his  tankard  of  ale  at  the  God-encompasseih-vs  to  any- 
where else.  The  corruption  from  God-encompasseth-us  to  goal 
and  compasses  is  obvious  and  natural  enough. 

In  Kiohard  Flecknoe's  Enigmatical  Characters,  pnhlished 
1665,  speaking  of  the  "fanatic  reformers,"  (tlie  Puritans,)  he 
observes,  "  As  for  the  signb,  they  have  pretty  well  begun  their 
reformation  already,  changing  the  sign  of  the  talutation  of  ike 
angel  and  our  lady  into  the  soldier  and  citizen,  and  the  Saihe- 
rine  Wheel  into  the  cat  and  wheel;  SO  as  there  only  wants  their 
making  the  dragon  to  kill  St.  George,  and  the  devil  to  tweak 
St.  Dunstan  by  the  nose,  to  make  the  reformation  complete. 
Such  ridiculous  work  they  make  of  their  reformation,  and  so 
zealous  are  they  against  all  mirth  and  jollity,  as  they  would 
pluck  down  the  sign  of  the  cat  and  fiddle  too,  if  it  dnist  but 
play  s>  loud  as  they  might  hear  it." 


lyClOOglC 


617 

The  cat  and  fiddle  is  a  a  corruption  of  Gaton  fidele. 

The  bag  of  nails,  at  Chelaea,  is  ekimed  by  the  smitlia 
and  carpenters  of  the  neighborhood  as  a  house  designed  for 
their  peculiar  accommodation ;  but,  had  it  not  been  for  the  cor- 
ruption of  the  times,  it  would  still  have  belonged  to  the  bac- 
chanals, who,  in  the  time  of  Ben  Jonson,  used  to  take  a 
holiday  stroll  to  this  delightful  yillage.  But  the  old  inscrip- 
tion sa^  and  haeckanah  is  now  converted  into  Satan  and  bag 
o' nails. 

The  origin  of  the  chequers,  which  is  so  common  an  emblem 
of  public  houaea,  has  been  the  subject  of  much  learned  conjec- 
ture. One  writer  supposes  that  they  were  meajit  to  represent 
that  tho  game  of  draughts  might  be  played  there  j  another  h^ 
been  credibly  informed  that  in  the  reign  of  Philip  and  Mary 
the  then  liarl  of  Arundel  had  a  grant  to  license  pub  lie- house  a, 
and,  part  of  the  armorial  bearings  of  that  noble  family  being  a 
chequer-bbard,  the  publican,  to  show  that  he  had  a  license,  put 
out'  that  mark  as  part  of  his  sign.  But,  unfortunately  for  both 
solutions,  unfortunately  for  the  honors  of  Arundel,  Sir  W. 
Hamilton  presented,  some  time  ago,  to  the  Society  of  Anti- 
quaries, a  view  of  a  street  in  Poinpeii,  in  which  we  find  that 
shops  with  the  sign  of  the  chequers  were  common  among  the 
Romans !  The  real  origin  of  this  emblem  is  still  involved  in 
obscurity.  The  wittiest,  though  certainly  not  the  most  genu- 
ine, explanation  of  it  was  that  of  the  late  G-eorge  Selwjn,  who 
used  to  wonder  that,  antiquaries  should  be  at  any  loss  to  dis- 
cover why  draughts  were  an  appropriate  emblem  for  drinhing- 
houses. 

An.  annotator  on  "B^oa's  Anecdotes  of  Literature  says,  "I 
remember,  many  years  ago,  passing  through  a  court  in  Bose- 
mary  Lane,  where  I  observed  an  ancient  sign  over  tho  door  of 
an  ale-house,  which  was  called  The  Pour  Alls.  There  was  the 
figure  of  a  king,  and  on  a  label,  'I  rule  all;'  the  figure  of  a 
priest,  motto,  ' I  pray  for  all ;'  a  soldier,  'I  fight  for  all;'  and 
a  yeoman,  'I  pay  all.'  About  two  years  ago  I  passed 
through  the  same  thoroughfare,  and,  looking  up  for  my  curious 


lyClOOglC 


618  INSCRIPTIONS. 

sign,  I  was  amazed  to  see  a  painted  board  occupy  its  plaJ3e, 
with,  these  words  inscribed  : — '  The  Four  Awls.'  In  White- 
cliapel  Eoad  is  a  public  house  which  has  a  written  sign,  '  The 
Grave  Morris.'  A  painter  was  commissioned  to  embody  the 
inscription ;  but  this  painter  had  not  a  poet's  eye ;  he  could 
not  body  forth  the  form  of  things  unknown.  In  his  distress 
he  applied  to  a  friend,  who  presently  relieved  him,  and  the 
painter  delineated,  as  well  as  he  oonld,  '  The  Graafe  Maurice,' 
often  mentioned  ia  the  'I/pistolce  HoeUn«.'  " 

The  Queer  Door  is  eorrapted  from  Occur  Dor^  (Uolden 
Heart) ;  the  Pig  and  Whistle,  from  Peg  ajid  Waasail-Bowl ;  the 
G-oat  in  the  GfoMen  Boots,  from  the  Dutch  Goed  in  der  Gooden 
Boote  (the  god — Mercury — in  tho  golden  boots). 

Many  signs  are  heraldic  and  represent  armorial  hearings. 
The  White  Heart  was  peculiar  to  Kichard  II. ;  tho  White 
Swan  to  Henry  IV.  and  Edward  III. ;  the  Blue  Boar  to  Rich- 
ard III. ;  the  Red  Dragon  to  the  Tudors ;  the  Bull,  the  Falcon, 
and  the  Plume  of  Feathers  to  Edward  IV. ;  the  Swan  and 
Antelope  to  Henry  V  ,  the  Greyhound  and  Green  Dragon  to 
Henry  VII  ,  the  Tastle,  the  Spread  Eagle,  and  the  Globe 
were  probably  adopted  tiom  tho  arms  of  Spain,  Germaay,  and 
Portugal,  by  inns  which  were  the  resort  of  merchants  from 
tho^e  c  untnes  Many  cjmmemorate  histerieal  events;  others 
derive  their  names  ftom  ■iome  eminent  and  popular  mar 
The  Coach  and  Horses  indicated  post-houses ;  the  Fox  an' 
Goose  di,noti,d  the  games  played  within ;  the  Hare  and  Houndf 
the  vi&inity  ot  hunting  grounds.  In  the  Middle  Ages,  a  bush 
was  aJways  suspended  in  front  of  the  door  of  a  wine-shop, 
—whence  the  saying,  "Good  wine  needs  no  bush."  Some  of 
the  mediteval  signs  are  still  retained,  as  the  Pilgrim,  Cross- 
Keys,  Seven  Stars,  &c. 

The  following  is  a  literal  copy  of  the  sign  of  a  small  publii 
house  in  the  village  of  Folkesworth,  near  Stilton,  Hants.  I 
contains  as  much  poetry  as  perhaps  the  rustic  Folkesworth  folki 
are  ;f7orthj  aiid  doubtless  they  think  it  (in  the  Stilton 
lar)  "  quite  the  cheese." 


lyGoogle 


INSCRIPTIONS. 
[A  TutJe  flgnre  of  a  Fos 


To.  ma.  it,  is,  mj,  Mrs.' 
Wish  .  to  .  placa  .  me 
hei-a  .  to  .  let .  yoa.  .  no 
he  .  Bcls  .  good  .  becre. 

The  Kawlinson  of  tie  district  has  deciphered  this  inscrip- 
tion, aod  conjeetures  its  meaning  to  he  as  follows  : — 

I  [UH  a  cunning  fos,  you  see; 


In  King  S 
kept  by  a  ma 
pole,  are  the* 


To  let  you  linow  lia  sells  good  bear,  - 

treet,  Norwich,  at  the  sign  of  "The  Waterman," 
n  who  is  a  barber  and  over  whose  door  is  the 


OUgllt  0! 


;eds  the  shaving, 


This  was  originally  an  impromptu  of  Dean  Swift,  written  at 
the  request  of  his  favorite  barber. 
Over  the  door  of  a  tippling-house  in  Frankford,  Pa.,  is  this : — 

In  this  Hive  we'ra  all  alive; 

Qood  liquor  makes  us  funnjj 
If  yoa'ra  dry,  atep  in  and  try 


Rest,  traveller,  rastj  lo  !  Cooper's  ready  hand 
Obedient  brings  "  ivfei  glaas"  at  thy  aommand. 
Best,  traveller,  rest,  and  banish  thoughts  of  eara. 
Drink  to  thy  friends,  and  recommend  thorn  here. 


Tell  them  how  Bdnard  put  to  d 
Only  for  saying  ho  would  makt 
Heir  to  the  Crovm;  mooning  in 
Which,  by  the  sign  thereof,  was 


—Rlcli.in.,Actm 


lyClOOglC 


620  INSCRIPTIONS. 

On  the  a^n  of  "  The  Baker  and  the  Brewer,"  in  Birmingham, 
is  the  folIowiBg  quatrain ; — 

The  Baker  saja,  "  I've  (he  eiaff  of  life. 

And  jon'ro  a  sillj  olf." 
The  Brewer  repliad,  with  artful  pride, 

••  V!hy  this  ia  life  itsolf." 

At  the  King's  Head  Inn,  Stutton,  near  Ipswich,  ia  this  ad- 
dress to  wayworn  trayelera;^ 

Good  people,  atop,  and  pray  walk  in ; 
Ilate'a  wine  and  brandy,  rum  and  gin; 
And  what  ia  moro,  good  purl  and  ale 
,  Are  both  Bold  horo  by  old  Nat  Dale. 

This  tap-room  inscription  is  in  a  wayside  tavern  in  Northum- 
berland, England : — 

Here  stop  and  spend  a  sooial  hour 

In  harmlsM  mirth'  and  fun; 
Let  frieodahip  reign,  be  just  and  kind,' 

And  evil  speak  of  none. 

At  the  Red  Lion  Inn,  Hollins  Green,  an  English  village,  ia 

Call  freely, 

Drink  merrily, 

Pay  honeatlj. 

Part  quieUy. 
These  rulaa,  my  friends,  will  bring  no  sorrow ; 
YoH  pay  to-day,  I'll  trust  to-morrow. 

In  the  county  of  Norfolk,  Eng.,  is  this  eingular  inscription; — 
More  beer  saotg  clerk 


Stall  if  I  brewer 

What  and  and  my* 

On  the  sign-board  of  the  Bull  Inn  at  Buckland,  near  Dover  :- 
The  bull  is  tame,  ao  fear  iiim  not. 
All  the  while  you  pay  your  shot ; 
When  money's  gone,  and  credit's  bad. 
It's  that  vrhloh  makes  the  bull  run  mad. 

•Kaul  from  the  bottom  of  tho  colnmus  upward,  commencing  ivilJi  tie  right. 


lyGoogle 


INSCRIPTIONS. 


thorpo,  near  Norwicli,  England,  is  a  public-liouae 
known  as  the  Dun  Cow.     Under  the.  portrait  of  the  cow  is  this 


Walk  iD 

I  trust  you'll 

1U  duD 

eow'a  milk  i 

to  your  mm 

ngstoke 

road,  near 

Eeading,  E 

Thia  ia 

he  Whitlaj  Grenadier, 

A  coted  house  for  fan 

oHa  beer. 

Mjfriei 

d,  if  jou  aho 

nld  chance  to 

Eewara 

unk  withal; 

Let  mo 

oration  bo  y 

ur  guide. 

It  anaw 

ra  well  when 

e'er  'tis  tried. 

Thou  u 

0  bat  not  abli 

And  do 

't  forget  tho 

Grenadier. 

The  author  of  Tavern  Anecdote  records  the  following: — ■ 

BhsMing  Soil  at  Slrat/ord. 
At  tho  SwanTavem,  kept  bj  Lound 
The  beat  aeoommodntion'a  fonnd— 
Wine,  apirita,  porter,  bottled  beer. 
You'll  find  in  high  perfection  here. 
If,  in  the  garden  with  your  lass. 
You  feel  inclined  to  take  a  glass, 
There  tea  and  eoffee,  of  the  best, 
PrOTided  ia  for  btotj  guest; 
Or,  if  disposed  a  pipe  to  smoke, 
To  sing  a  song,  or  orack  a  jolie, 
You  may  repair  aorOBB  the  green, 
Where  nofight  ia  heard,  though  muoh  is  seen; 
Then  laugh,  and  drink,  and  amoke  away, 
And  but  a  moderate  reckoning  pay. 


INSCRIPTION, 
ind,  and  take  a  pot 


lO  often  is  Qie  case, 


lyGoogle 


INSCKIPTIONS. 

ON  IKN   WINDOW-P 
raTfllleii  life's  dull  ronnd 


A  gentleman  who  stopped  at  an  inn  at  Stockport,  in  1634, 
left  this  record  of  his  bad  reception  on  a  window  of  the  inn:»- 

If,  trsTeller,  good  treatment  be  thy  care, 

A  comfortable  bed,  and  vbolesome  fare, 

A  modeat  bill,  and  a  diverting  boat, 

Neat  maid,  and  roadj  waiter,— quit  tbia  ooasL 

If  dirty  doings  please,  at  Stoofcport  lis; 

Tke  girla,  0  frowsy  ftights,  bere  witb  tbeir  mistreas  via. 

Yet  Eynes  Morjson,  in  his  Itinerary,  thus  speaks  of  English 
inns  in  the  olden  time  : — 

As  300U  as  a  passenger  comes  to  an  inno,  ths  servants  jnn  to  him,  and 
one  takes  bis  horse  and  wallies  him  about  till  he  be  eool,  then  ruba  biin 
down,  and  gives  bim  meat;  another  aerrant  gives  the  passenger  hia  pri- 
vate chamber  and  kindles  bis  fire;  the  third  pulls  off  bis  bootes  and  makes 
them  oleane'i  then  the  boat  and  hostess  visit  bim,  and  if  be  will  eate  witb 
tlie  boste  or  at  a  common  table  with  the  others,  bis  meale  will  eost'bim 
Biipenoe,  or  in  some  plaoes  fourpenfe;  but  if  he  will  eate  in  his  ohamber, 
ha  commands  what  meat  he  will,  aooording  to  his  appetite;  yea,  the 
kitohen  is  open  to  him  to  order  the  meat  to  be  dressed  as  bs  likea  beste. 
Aflor  having  eaten  what  be  pleases,  he  may  with  credit  set  by  a  part  for 
nest  day's  breakfast.  Hia  bill  will  then  be  written  for  bim,  and  should  be 
object  to  any  charge,  the  host  is  readi/  la  atler  It. 


lyGoogle 


.N  SUMPTIONS. 


ON  BELtS. 


This  brief  and  impressive  announcement — the  motto  of 
Schiller's  ever-memoralDle  Song  of  the  Bell — was  common  to 
tlie  church-bells  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  may  still  be  found  on 


the  bell  of  the  great  Minster  of  Sohaffhausen,  : 
the  church  near  Lucerne.      Another  and  a  usnal  or 
is,  in  fact,  but  an  amplification  of  the  first,  ia  this  r — 

Funem  plangO — Fulgura  frnngo — Sabhoto  jiaiigo. 


that  of 
which 


Tho  following  motto  may  still  be  seen  on  some  of  the  bells 
that  have  swung  in  their  steeples  for  centuries.  It  will  be  ob- 
served to  entitle  them  to.  a  sixfold  efficacy. 

Man's  (ieath.  I  tell  by  dolafnl  knell. 
Lightning  and  thunder  I  break  asundar, 
Ob  Sabbath  all  to  clmrch  I  call, 
The  sleep;  head  I  raise  from  bed, 
Tho  winds  so  fierce  I  do  diepoise, 
Men's  oroel  ra^  I  do  assuage. 

On  the  famous  alarm-bell  called  Roland,  in  the  belfry-tower 
of  the  once  powerful  city  of  Ghent,  is  engraved  the  subjolaed 
inscription,  in  the  old  Walloon  or  Flemish  dialect : — . . 

Mynea  nueio  is  Holiujd;  nls  ik  ^lep  is  erbrnod. 


i.^gli.1. 


n  the  la 


Oa  others  may  be  found  these  inscriptions  : — 

Deum  verum  Inudo,  plebem  vooo,  olerum  oongrego, 
Ifcfuneto  ploro,  pestum  fngo,  fost'a  deaoru. 
I  praiao  the  true  Qod,.i!all  the  people,  oonvene  the  olerg: 
I  mourn  for  tlie  dead,  drivB  away  pestilence,  and  grace  f 


Gttudo 


I  gaudentil 


lyClOOglC 


INSCRIPTIONS. 


Te  ringers  all,  that  prise  yoar  health  and  happinafls, 
Be  sober,  raerrj,  wise,  and  jou'U  the  same  posBesB. 


In  wedlock's  bands  all  ye  who  join, 
"With  haAds  your  hearts  uniiei 


There  is  in  the  abbey  church  at  Sherhome,  in  Dorsetshire,  a 
firerhell  couflned  exclusively  to  alarms  in  case  of  conflagrations. 
The  motto  rn'ound  the  rim  or  carrel  runs  thus ; — 


lyCiOogle. 


INSCEIPTIONS. 


625 


The  books  of  tlie  Boman  Catholic  faith  eontaiti  a  ritual  for 
the  haptiam  of  heJls,  which  decrees  that  they  be  ijamed  and 
anointed, — a  ectemouial  which  was  supposed  to  insure  them 
against  the  machinations  of  evil  spirits. 

On  the  largest  of  three  bells  placed  by  Edward  III.  in  the 
Little  Sanctuary,  "Westminster,  are  these  words: — 

King  Edward  made  ma  thirtio  thonsand  weight  Bni  thraa'; 
Take  me  down  aai  vey  me,  and  more  you  shall  find  ino. 

The  Great  Tom  of  Oxford  was  cast  after  two  failures,  April 
8,  1680,  from  the  metal  of  an  old.  bell,  on  which  was  the  fol- 
lowing curious  inscription,  whence  ita  name  :— 

In  Thomie  laude  raaono  6™  bom  sine  ftande. 

On  a  bell  in  Durham  Cathedral  is  inscribed, — 

To  call  the  folk  to  church  in  time, 


On  a  bell  at  Lapley,  ia  Staffordshire  : — 

I  will  sound  and  resound  to  thee,  0  Lord, 
To  call  thy  people  to  thj  word. 

On  a  bell  in  Bleivod  Church,  Montgomeryshire : — 

1  to  fhe  church  the  living  call, 
And  W  tJie  gravo  do  Eammon  all. 

On  Independence  bell,  Philadelphia,  from  Lev.  xxv.  10  r — 

ProolMm  liberty  throughout  all  the  land  unto  all  the  inhabitania  thereof. 

In  St.  Helen's  Church,  "Worcester,  England,  is  a  chime  of 
bells  cast  in  the  time  of  Queen  Anne,  with  names  and  inscrip. 
tions  commemorative  of  victories  gained  during  her  reiga ; — 


n  Philip's  flight  from  Baroelon. 


lyGoogle 


Palagad  in  blood,  I,  RamilHea,  adTanoe 
Britannia's  gloiy  on  the  foil  of  Ftanoo. 

4.  MeNIH. 
lat  Menin  on  mj  sides  engraren  be ; 
And  Flanders  fraod  from  Gallio  slavery. 

6.  TnBiH, 

1 1  roundly  go, 


r.   MABLBOaODQH. 

«alar  Marlborongli  bear; 

8.  Qdbeh  Anse. 
Th'  immortal  praises  of  Queen  Anne  I  aoanfl. 
With  uHiDn  blest,  and  all  those  glories  crowned. 

The  inscriptions  me  ail  dated  1706,  esoept  that  on  tlie 
seventh,  which  ia  dated  1712. 

On  one  of  eight  bells  in  the.chnrch  tower  of  Pilton,  Devon, 
is  a  modern  achievement  in  this  kind  of  literature  :-:- 

Ecoast  by  John  Taylor  and  Son, 
Who  the  best  prize  for  ohnroh  belle  won 
At  the  Great  Ei-ti-bi-ti-on 
In  London,  1 — 8 — 5  and  1. 

In  St.  John's  Cathedral,  Hong  Kong  : — 

I  will  send  thaa  far  henoa  unto  the  Gentiles.  (Acta  ssii.  21.) 

At  Fotheringay,  Northamptonshire: — 

Domini  lauderri,  non  vacbo  sed  voce  reBonabo. 


At  Hornby  :- 


Qod'apraiaaSBing; 
■When  T  do  toll, 
Pvay  hesrt  and  souL 


lyGoogle 


INSCRIPTIONS. 


At  Nottingliam : — 


Thatm 

Disijolt  inscribed  o 
lini,  Benedict  XIII.-.- 


I  loU  the  funernl  knell ; 

I  hail  the  fastnl  day  ; 
The  fleeting  hour  I  tell) 

I  stimmun  all  to  ptay. 

;  sound  doth  warning  give 


1  at  Bergamoa,  by  Cardinal  Or- 


Aima,  Dies,  Horns,  Fulgura,  f  esta,  Bogoa. 

Similar  in  form  is  an  inscription  on  Lindsey  Oourt-lioiise : — 


Odit 
I. 


I 


I 


I 


I 


NequitiBm,  paeem,  criminn,    Jura, 
On  tbe  clock  of  the  town  hall  of  Bala,  North  Wales,  ia  the 
following  inscription ; — 

Here  I  stand  both  day  and  night, 
To  toll  tho  hours  with  all  raj  miglit; 


^plel 


kohy  m 


■e  thy  God  as  I  aarvB  thee. 
IT.Y-LBAr  INSCRIPTIONS  IN   BOOKS. 

Tbe  foftowing   lines,   formerly    popular    among    youthful 
Bcholaia,  may  still  be  found  in  school-books  ; — 

This  book  ia  mine 

By  right  divioo  ; 
And  if  it  go  astray, 

111  eoll  you  kind 

My  desk  to  find 
And  put  it  safe  away. 

This  book  is  mine,— ^that  you  may  know, 
By  letters  two  I  nill  you  show : 
The  flcBt  ia  J,  a  letter  bright ; 
The  next  is  S  in  all  men's  sight 
But  if  yon  still  my  name  should  miss, 
Look  underneath,  and  here  it  is ; — 
John  Smith. 


lyGoogle 


628  INSCKIPTI0N8. 

Whoe'er  this  book,  if  lost,  doth  End, 
I  hope  will  hare  a  generoua  mind. 
And  bring  it  to  Iba  owner, — me, 
Whose  name  fhej'll  aee  page  fifty-thrao. 

The  curious  warning  subjoined — paradoxical  i 
improbability  of  any  honest  friend  pilfering — b 
to  our  times  from  the  days  of  black-letter  printing  : — 

Steal  not  this  book,  my  hone5t  friend, 
For  fear  the  gallows  be  your  end ; 
For  if  jou  do,  the  Lord  will  snj, 
Whore  ia  Ihat  book  job  stole  away? 

Another  ofi«ii  met  with  is  tbis  : — 
Hie  liber  eat  meus, 
TesliaetestDeuB; 


Tbe  two  following  admonitions  are  full  of  salutary  advice  to 
boot-borrowers : — 

Neither  blemish  this  hook,  or  the  laarea  double  down, 
Nor  lend  it  to  each  idle  friend  in  the  town  j 
Eetnm  it  wben  read;  or,  if  loat,  please  supply 
Another  as  good  lo  the  mind  and  the  eye. 
With  right  and  witb  reason  jou  need  but  be  friendB, 
And  each  book  in  my  atudy  your  pleaauta  attenda. 

If  fbon  art  borrowed  by  a  ftiend, 

Elglit  welcome  shall  be  be, 
To  read,  to  study,  not  lo  lend. 

But  to  return  to  me. 
Not  that  imparted  knowledge  doth 

Diminiah  Icarn'ing-s  store; 
But  books,  I  find,  if  often  lent. 


Of  the  warning  and  menacing  kind  are  the  following  ;— 

This  hook  is  one  thing, 
'      My  fist  is  another; 


lyClOOglC 


INSCRIPTIONS.  bZH 

Si  qaitqaii  fareluT 

TMs  litUe  libellasi, 
Per  Bacchum  per  Jovem  ! 

I'll  kill  bim,  111  fell  him, 
In  i>f^n  illu^ 

I'll  siAak  mj  asatpellum. 
And  teaah  Mm  to  Bteiil 

Mj  little  Iifieiif^i. 

Na  me  prehd  pas ; 
On  te  pcadra. 

Oideoa  Snaaka, 

Ejus  liber.- 
6i  quis  faretar  i 
PerooUnm  peuiettir, 
Similis  huis  pauperi  animali. 
figure  of  an  unfortunate  individual  sitspended 

Small  is  the  WTea, 


This  i9  Thomas  Jones's  book— 
Yoa  may  just  within  it  look ; 
But  you'd  better  not  da  more. 
For  the  Devil's  at  the  door. 
And  will  Enateh  at  fingering  hands; 
Look  behind  you — there  ho  stands  ! 

The  following  macaronic  is  tdten  from  a  copy  of  the  Gom- 
panion  to  the  Festivals  amd  Fasts,  1717  :— 

To  the  Dan-oner  of  this  Sooh. 
Hie  Liter  ost  mens. 
Deny  it  who  can, 
Samuel  Showell,  Jr., 


lyClOOglC 


INSCRIPTIONS. 


Rostore  it,  md  Ihen 

TIC  ijudndo  mutunria 

I  ma;  lend  agaia. 

At  ei  detinene. 

So  let  it  be  loel, 

Expcctnbo  Argentatn, 

Ab  muoh  lis  it  cost  (viz.:  5>.) 
To  the  Finder. 
It  I  thia  lose,  and  yon  it  find, 
EoBtore  it  me,  be  not  nnkind ; 
'For  if  not  so,  you're  much  to  blame. 
While  as  below  jou  soo  my  nanle. — [Name  appended.] 

Taken  from  an  old  copy-book ; 

All  you,  my  friend?,  who  now  expect  to  see 
A  piece  of  writing,  Iiere  performed  by  me, 
Cast  bnt  a  smile  en  this  my  mean  eadeavor, 
I'll  atrive  to  mead,  and  be  obedient  ever. 

On  the  fly-leaf  of  a  Bible  may  sometimes  be  seen : 

Could  we  with  ink  tho  oaoan  fill, 
Wbm  every  stalk  on  earth  a  qniil, 
And  ware  the  sties  of  parchment  made. 
And  erery  man  n  aoribe  bj  trade, 
To.tell  the  lore  of  Sod  alone 

■Would  drain  the  ooean  dry ; 
Nor  could  the  eoroU  oontMn  the  wtole. 

Though  Btretohed  from  aky  to  sky. 

The  two  following  are  very  common  in  village  schools  ; — 

This  is  Gilea  Wilkinson,  his  book; 

&od  give  him  gra^ra  thercio  to  took; 

Nor  yet  to  look,  but  understand 

That  learning's  better  than  house  and  land; 

For  when  both  house  and  land  are  spent. 

Then  learning  ie  most  excellent. 

John  Smith  la  my  name, 

England  is  my  nation, 
London  19  Toy  dwelling-place, 

And  Chriat  is  my  salration. 
jid  when  I'm  dead  and  in  tba  graTO, 

And  hJ]  my  bones  are  rotten, 
Wbon  this  you  see,  remember  me. 

Though  I  am  long  forgotten. 


lyGoogle 


This  pretty  presentation-vers 

lalte  it,— 'tis  a  gift  of  love, 

ThatseokB  thy  good  alone; 
Eeop  it  for  the  giver's  soke. 

And  read  it  for  tiy  own. 

The  early  conductors  of  tlie  press  were  in  the  habit  of  affix- 
ing to  the  end  of  the  volumes  they  printed  some  device  or 
couplet  concerning  the  book,  with  the  names  of  the  printer  and 
proof-reader  added.  The  following  example  ia  ftom  Andrew 
Bocard's  edition  of  The  Pragmatic  Sanction,  Paris,  1507  :— 

Ebibati  et  totara  testudo  perambnlat  orbam 

And  ila  pages  each  da;  he  unfurled; 
Till  an  ant  to  the  dregs  drink  the  ocean. 
Of  a  tortoJEo  haa  crawled  round  the  world.) 

On  the  title-page  of  ahook  called  Genilsnien,  Look  ahout  You, 
is  the  folJowing  curious  request : — 

Read  this  over  if  you're  niaa, 


Of  hi 


it  all. 


MOTTO  ON  A  CLOCK. 
Quea  lenla  acoodit,  (lytom  velox  ptieterit  boral 
TJt  capias,  patiene  eato,  sad  eato  yigil  I 
Slow  comea  the  hour  :  its  passing  speed  how  great: 
WaiUng  to  seiie  it,~vigilantlj  wiutl 


WATCH-PAPEa  I 
Onward  perpetually  nioving> 
Those  faithful  hands  are  erer  proving 

How  quick  the  hours  fly  by  ,■ 
This  monitory,  pulae-like  beating 
Beama  constantly,  methinka,  repeaUng, 

Swift!  swift!  the  moraenla  fly. 
Eeader,  be  roady, — for  perhaps  before 


Life's  spring 


aapt, — JOE  die  I 


lyGoogle 


INSCRIPTIONS. 


Think  what  a  moment  is  to  him  who  dioB. 

Little  monitor,  impart 

gome  inetruotion  to  the  heart; 

Shon  the  busy  and  the  gay 

Life  is  hasting  swift  awaj. 

Follies  cannot  long  endure. 

Life  is  short  and  death  is  sure. 

Happj  those  who  wiaoly  learn 

Tru^  from  error  to  discern. 
Oonld  but  our  tempera  more  like  this  maohine, 
Hot  urged  by  passion,  nor  delayed  by  spleen. 
And  trae  to  Mature's  regHlating  power,' 
By  virtuous  acts  dietingulsh  every  hour; 
Then  health  and  joy  irould  follow  as  they  ought 
The  laws  of  motion,  and  the  laws  of  thought; 
Bweet  health  to  pass  the  present  moment  o'er. 
And  ererlastJng  ^oy  when  time  shall  be  no  more. 

SUN-DIAL   IN8CEIPTI0NS. 

Sine  sole  sileo. 

(Without  sunlight  I  give  no  information.) 

Seishoraa;  neaois  horam. 

inow  the  hoars;  yen  know  aot  the  hour  [of  death].) 

irs  pass  Blowly  for  the  aSieted,  rapidly  for  the  joyous.) 
VadoB  vegno  giome; 
Ma^tu  andrni  senza  rilomo. 
(I  go  and  eome  every  day ; 
Bat  thou  shall  go  withont  return.) 
May  the  dread  boolt  at  our  last  trial. 
When  open  spread,  be  like  this  dial; 
May  Heaven  forbear  to  mark  therein 
The  boars  me^e  dark  by  deeds  of  sin; 
Those  only  in  that  reoord  write' 
■Which  virtue  like  the  sun  makes  brigiit. 
If  o'er  the  dial  glides  a  shade,  redeem 
The  time,  for  lo !  it  passes  like  &  dream ; 
But  if  'tis  all  a  blank,  then  mark  tlie  loss 
Of  hours  unblest  by  shadows  from  the  cross. 


lyGoogle 


rNSCRIPTIONS. 

INSCRIPTION  OVER  A  S 
Whoe'er  thou  art  that  staye's 

Arise  to  Sit  thy  oup  and  Hag 

In  Bparkling  heads  abnut  tl 

In  all  thy  thougiits  nnd  word 


INSOEIPTIO^fS  ON  AN  JEOLIAN  HARP. 
™.     (Hor. 


Uiciuan 


{Virg.  I 


Hail,  teavenly  harp,  where  Memnon'e  skill  ib 

That  oharm'at  the  ear   with  wiime  all  thy  own! 

Which,  thongh  untouohed,  cnnEt  rapturous  strains  impart. 

Oh,  riohof  geanine  nature,  free  from  art  1 

finch  ths  wild  warblings  of  tho  chirping  tlirong. 

So  simply  sweet  the  untaught  virgin's  song. 

r.  Longfellow's  admirers  ivill  remember  his  beautiful  lit- 
)em  commencing: — 

<n  phrase  whiah  calls 


Thobi 


i  God's 


il-ground 

Tliis  "Saxon  pLrase"  is  not  obsolete.  It  may  be  seen,  for 
instance,  inscribed  over  the  entrance  to  a  modern  cemetery  at 
Basle—  ®ottcS    5tcfer. 

Over  a  gateway  near  the  church  of  San  Eusehio,  Eome:— 

Triaeiint  mirabilia; 


Over  the  door  of  tho  house  ii 
Kington,  Sussex: — 

Gratns,  honesd,  mihii  no 
Fur,  abens;  non  sa' . 
Thus  paraphrased : — 


which  Selden  was  horn,  Sal- 


lyClOOglC 


334  INSCBIPTIONS. 

HOUSE    INSCBIPTIONS. 

On  the  Town-house  Wittenberg: — 

Ist'a  Gottes  W«rk,  so  wird'a  beateliei 
lat's  HeneohEiis,  bo  nird'e  untergohe 
(If  God's  work,  it  will  aje  endnrs; 

Over  the  gate  of  a  Casino,  near  Maddaloni 


a  west-of-England  mansion: — 

■Weloome  to  all  ttrongl)  this  wide-oponing 
None  oome  too  early,  qohb  depart  too  lati 


Fuller  {Holy  and  Profane  Slate)  and  Walton  {Life  of 
George  Rerberf)  notice  a  verae  engraved  upon  a  mantel-piece 
in  the  Parsonage  House  hnilt  by  Geoi^e  Herbert  at  his  own 
expense.     The  fidthful  minister  thns  o 


A  Iionaa  built  to  thy  mind. 

Without  thy  ooBt, 
Serve  tiiou  the  more 
QoD  and  the  poor  ; 

My  labor  is  not  lost. 

The  followmg  is  emblazoned  around  the  banqueting  hall  o 
Bulwer's  ancestral  home,  Knobworth: — 

Eeiid  the  Eede  of  the  Old  Roof  Tree. 
Here  be  tmst  fast.     Opinion  free. 
Knightly  Right  Hand.     Christian  knee. 
Worth  in  all.     Wit  in  somo. 
Laughter  open.     Slander  dumb, 
Eearth  whore  roolcd  Friendships  grow, 
Safe  as  Altar  eren  to  Foe. 
And  the  sparks  that  upwards  go 
Whan  tie  hearth  flame  dies  below. 
If  thy  aap  iu  them  may  be, 
Fear  no  wintar,  Old  Roof  Tree, 


lyClOOglC 


INSCRIPTIONS. 

On  a  pane  of  glass  in  an  old  window  in  the  coffee-n 
the  White  Lion,  Chester,  England  ;— 
It  fit  a  placo 


Tow 


a  the  I 


.of  b. 


And  if  the  resBon  ;ou  should  apeir, 
Why  botb  alike  aro  bjitUo  geir, 
A  wee  thing  dings  a  lozen  lame^ 
A  wee  tlimg  spoils  a,  maiden's  fame. 

Tourist's  wit  on^  window  pane  at  Lodore: —    ■ 

Scratched  upon  tha  glass. 

On  a  pane  of  the  Hotel  des  Pajs-Bas,  Spa,  Belgium  :- 

r  lore  but  one,  and  only  one ,-, 
Oh,  Damon,  tbou  art  he. 


MEMOKIALS. 

An  English  gentleman,  who,  in  1715,  spent  some  time  in 
prison,  left  the  following  memorial  on  the  windows  of  his  cell. 
On  one  pane  of  glass  he  wrote; — 

That  which  the  world  misoalls  a  jail, 
A  private  closet  la  to  me; 

a  good  conaoienoe  is  my  bail, 


Andii 


e  wrote,  Mutare  vel  timere  sperw),  a 
1  Catom.* 


Oa  another  sq 
on  a  third  pane,  s( 

A  Mr.  Barton,  on  retiring  with  a  fortnne  made  in  the  wool- 
trade,  huilt  a  feir  stone  house  at  Holme,  in  Nottinghamshire, 
in  the  window  of  which  was  the  following  couplet, — an  humble 
t  of  the  means  whereby  he  had  acquired  hia 


lyGoogle 


636  INSCRIPTIONS. 

franoke's  ENCQURAGINQ  I 
It  is  said  that  whe6  Francke  was  engaged  in  the  great  work 
of  erecting  his  world-known  Orphan-House  at  Hallo,  for  the 
means  of  which  he  looked  to  the  Lord  in  importunate  prayer 
from  day  to  day,  an  apparently  accidental  circumstance  made 
an  abiding  impression  on  him  and  those  about  him.  A  work- 
man, in  dicing  a  part  of  the  foundation,  found  a  email  silver 
coin,  with  the  following  inscription  ; —       ^ 

"Sehova,  Conditor,  Condila  Ooronide  Coronet." 
(Ma;  Jehovah,  the  builder,  Saish  Hia  building.) 


a OLDEN 

MOTTOES. 

A  T!un  maa's  motto,— 

Win  gold  and  wear  it. 

,— Win  gold  and  share  it. 

A  miser's  motto,— 

Win  gold  and  spare  il 

A  profligate'!  motto,— 

Win  gold  and  spend  ii 

A  broker's  roolto,— 

Win  gold  and  lend  iL 

A  fool's  motto,— 

Win  gold  and  end  it. 

A  gambler's  motto,— 

Win  gold  and  lose  it. 

A  sailor's  motto,— 

Win  gold  and  omise  i 

A  wise  man's  motto,— 

Win  gold  and  nae  it. 

POSIES  FROM 

WEDDING-RINOS. 

PorHa.    A  quarrel,  ho,  aire 

adjl     What's  the  matter 

Oraliano.    About  u  hoop  o: 

gold,  a  paltrj  ring 

That  aha  did  gire  me:  whose 

posy  waa 

For  all  the  world  like  cutler's  poetry 

Ma-chant  of  V^ice,  Aot  V. 
Hamhl.     Is  this  a  prologue,  or  the  posy  of  a  ring?— 
jHTomJcl,  Aet  III.  sc.  2. 
Jacques.    Ton  are  full  of  pretty  answers :  have  you  not  been 
aoquaihted  with  goldsmiths'  wivea,  and  conned  them  out  of  rmgs?— 
As  You  Like  It,  Aet  IIL  so.  3. 

The  following  posies  were  transcribed  by  an  indefatigable 
collector,  from  old  wedding-rings,  chiefly  of  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  eeuturies.  Tho  orthography  is,  in  most  cases, 
altered : — 

3>  Knives  were  formerly  insoribed,  hy  meiina  of  aqua-fortis,  with  short  sen- 


lyGoogle 


Death  never  parts 
Such  loving  liearta. 
Lore  and  respect 
I  do  expeot.   ' 

No  gift  can  sliow 

ThB  loTB  I  owa. 

Let  him  nerer  take  u  irift 

That  will  not  lova  her  aa  hia 

In  loTing  thee 


In  Qod  and  thee 
Shall  toy  joy  be. 
Love  thy  chaste  wife 
Beyond  thy  life 


1681. 


Night  and  duj. 
Great  joy  in  thoe 
Continually. 
M;  fand  delight 
By  day  and  night. 


Joy  day  and  night 
Be  oui  delight. 
Divinely  knit  by  SrE 
Late  two,  now  one; 

see.   1657. 
Endless  my  love 
As  this  shall  prove. 
Avoid  all  strife 


Joyfnl  love 

Thia  ring  doth  prove. 

In  thoe,  dear  wife, 


Spend  all  tliy  life.   : 
In  love  abide 
Till  dealh  divide. 


God  did  deoreo 


Worship  is  dna 
To  God  aod  you. 
Love  and  live  happy. 


■e  wi]l  ne'er  fiirget 


lyGoogle 


INaORIPTIONS. 


So  love  is  aura.    .  Where  faith  ia 

Lore,  I  like  thee,  Thj  friend  an 


Lire  and  die 
In  oonstanoy. 

Knit  in  one 
By  Christ  alone. 

Ny  belOTed  ia  mine, 
And  I  am  here. 

My  daareat  Betty 
l3  good  and  pretty. 

Within  my  breast 
Thy  heart  doth  rest. 
God  aboys 
Ineraase  our  love. 

Do  not  say  nay. 
Parting  ia  pain 
■While  lore  doth  rema 

Be  true  to  me 
That  gives  it  thoe. 

Hurt  not  that  heart 
Whoae  joy  thou  art. 

Both  heart  and  hand 

Thine  eyes  so  bright 
Are  my  delight. 

My  heart  yon  have, 
And  joura  I  orBTO. 

Take  hand  and  heart, 
I'll  ne'er  depart. 

OhriBt  and  thee 
My  oorafbrt  be. 

If  yon  oonsen^ 
You'll  not  repent. 

Aa  God  decreed. 
Bo  we  agreed. 

'Tis  in  yonr  wiU 
To  save  or  kill. 

No  force  can  move 
Affiled  love. 

Ab  long  as  lite. 
Your  loTing  wife. 

Por  a  kiss 
Take  this. 

If  yon  deny. 
Then  sure  I  die. 

The  Bant  of  thaft 

Thy  friend  am  I, 
And  so  will  die. 

Ifanoynone  ' 
Bnt  thee  alone. 

Letmeinthea 
Moslhappyba 

One  word  for  oil, 
IloveandBliall. 

God  hath  sent 
My  heart's  content. 

Your  sight, 
My  delight. 

Ton  and  I 

■Will  lovers  die. 

lyGoogle 


I  wish  to  thea 
All  joy  may  be. 

This  ring  dott  bind 
Body  and  mind. 

In  thoo  my  love 
All  joy  I  prove. 

Endless  OS  this 

Shall  be  our  bliss.— Thos.  Bliss.  !71». 

Boyond  this  life 
Lcre  me,  dear  wife. 

Idor^oioe 

In  thee  my  choice. 

Love  and  joy 

Whose  joy  thou  art. 

The  plodgB  I  prove 
Of  mutnal  lovo. 

1  change  the  life 
Of  maid  to  wife. 

T  love  the  rod 
And  tbee  und  Ood. 

Endless  my  love 
For  thea  shall  prove. 

Desire,  like  flra, 
Doth  atiU  inspire. 

Not  Two,  bnt  One. 
Till  life  be  gone. 

Mj  heart  and  I, 

Humbers,  yi.  2i,  25,  26. 

In  its  circular  continuity,  the  ring  was  aeeej 
eternity,  and,  hence,  the  stability  of  affection. 


Or,  as  Herrick  si 


And  pure  as  gold  forever, 
T,*T1V  KATHEEINE  grey's   WEDDING-RINQ. 

The  ring  received  by  this  excellent  woman,  who  was  a  sister 
of  Lady  Jane  &rey,  from  her  husband,  the  Earl  of  Hertford, 
at  their  marriage,  consisted  of  five  golden  links,  the  four  inner 
ones  bearing  the  following  lines,  of  the  earl's  composition : — 

As  cipoles  five  by  art  oompntt  shewe  hut  one  ring  in  sightj 
So  trust  uniteth  faithfull  mindes  iiith  knott  of  secret  might. 
Whose  force  to  breake  but  greedie  Death  noe  wight  poasasseth  power, 
As  time  and  sequels  well  shall  prove.     My  ringe  oan  say  no  more. 


lyGoogle 


^^arallrt  ^passasra. 


iVeiciuioni  to  originaliit/  art  ladierout. — BiROs's  Lellera. 

An  apple  cleft  in  two  if  imt  more  twin 

Than  these  Hco  creattirea—TiBel/th  Night,  V.  1. 
MiUon  "  horroioff^*  other  poeta*  thoughts,  biii  he  did  not  borrovt  as  gipeieg 
borroio  chUdreti,  spoiling  their  fealiirei  that  Ihey  mat/  boI  6b  recognized.     No, 
he  returned  them  improeed.    Had  he  "  borrowed'*  your  coat,  he  ioowtd  have 
Tcttared  it  miih  a  new  nop  spoil  il  / — Leigh  Hour. 

Man  wants  tut  litfla  bare  below, 

Mor  wiuitB  that  littlo  long.— Goldsmith  :  Hermit. 

Evidently  stolen  from  Da.  YouKO : — 

Maa  wants  bnt  little,  nor  that  littlo  long.—JVii/ftl  Thovghls. 
Be  wise  to-daj :  'taa  madness  to  defer. — Night  ThowjhU. 

But  CONGBBVE  had  Siud,  not  long  before, — 

Defer  not  till  to-morrow  to  bo  wiaci 
Like  angels'  Tislta,  few  and  for  between. — CiUPBlLL;  Fleaiurea  of  Hope. 

Copied  from  Blaie  : — 

Not  to  return;— or  if  it  did,  its  visits. 

Like  those  of  angels,  short  and  far  between. — Grave. 

But  this  pretty  conceit  origiuated  with  Noaaia,  of  Bemer- 
ton,  (died  1711,)  in  a  religious  poem; — 

But  those  who  soonest  take  their  flight 
,   Aro  the  moat  eiquisite  and  fltrongi 
Like  mtgcW  iMu,  short  oiid  bright, 
Mortulitj's  too  weak  to  bear  them  long— TJe  Parting. 
Dear  as  the  light  ttat  risits  these  sad  eyes. 
Dew  as  the  ruddj  drops  thai  warm  my  heort— Qr4v's  Bard. 

Geat  himself  points  out  the  imitation  in  Shakspeare  : — 


lyClOOglC 


PARALLEL 

Otway  also  makes  Priuli  exclaim  to  his  daught 

Dear  as  ihe  vital  narinth  thai  feeds  mj  life, 

Dear  as  thceo  ejta  that  weep  in  foqdnesa  o'er  thea.— Vbni 


Tbou  tnmcr  of  the  human  breast, 

Whosa  iron  scourge  and  torturing  hour 

The  bai  affright,  affliot  the  best.— Gkay  :  Ode  to  Admrsili/. 

'Wh.ea  ihc  scourge 
Inexorably,  and  the  ferluring  Iiour, 
Calls  us  to  penance. — Miltoh  :  Paradiie  Lost. 


Tbe  graces  and  tlie  rosy-hoaomed  hours 
Thither  all  (heir  bounties  bring.— Mtltok  :  Coiava. 
En  hio  in  roaela  latet  papiUia.— CiTClLua. 
Pull  many  a  gem,  of  pureat  raj  serBne, 
The  dark,  unfothomed  caves  of  ocean  bear; 

And  waste  its  aweetneaa  on  the  desert  air. — QbAt  :  Ekgy. 
There  kept  mj  chaims  concealed  froto  mortiil  oje. 
Like  rosea  that  ia  deserts  bloom  and  die. — Pofb:  Rape  of  the  Lock. 

Pure  gargiing  tills  the  lonely  deaert  trace, 

And  waste  their  music  on  the  soTage  raoc. — Youhq. 

And,  like  the  desort's  lily,  bloom  to  fado.— Bhebstone  :  Elegy  /F. 

Nor  waste  their  sweetness  on  the  desert  air,— ^Chuhchill,  Oot&am. 

Which  else  had  wasted  in  the  desert  air. 

LLOVn  :  Ode  at  Weslmt^ater  Schoai 


The  swallow  oft  beneath  ray  thatch 

Shall  tn-ittet  from  her  clay-built  nest,  &'^.—The  Wish. 

Doiibtleaa  su^ested  to  Rogers  by  the  lines  in  Ghat's 


The  bloom  of  yonng  desire  and  purple  light  of  lo™. — ^tlnir. 
Lnmancine  jnTontw  pnrpurenm.— TlaQiL.  ^n.  I.  690; 


lyClOOglC 


642  PARALLEL   PASSAGES. 

And  quaff  the  peiideni  jimtage  H3  it  growa. 

GRili  AUiat^ce  of  SdaiMtion 

For  this  expression  &ray  was  indebted  to  Virgil  : — 

Non  eadom  arbotilius  jiende*  iiindemia  noatria,  Ac— ffeorj.  ii.  89. 

The  attie  wartler  pours  ter  tiroat.— OniY  r   Ode  to  Sprmg. 

la  it  for  thee  the  linnet  pours  her  throat  f— Pope  :  Eisay  on  Man. 

Gray  says  concerning  the  blindness  of  Milton, — 

He  passed  the  flaming  bonnda  of  spaos  and  time ; 
The  living  throne,  the  aappliire  hlaze, 
Where  angels  tremble  while  they  gaze. 
He  saw,-  bnt,  blasted  with  escess  of  light, 
Closed  hie  eyes  in  endless  night. 

(Dr.  Johnson  remarks  that  if  we  suppose  the  blindness 
caused  by  study  in  the  formation  of  his  poem,  this  account  is 
poutioally  true  and  happily  imagined,) 

Hermtas,  a  G-alatian  writer  of  the  second  century,  says  of 
Homer's  blindness, — 

"When  Homer  resolved  tn  ivrite  of  Achilles,  he  had  an  esoeeding  desire  lo 
fill  his  mind  with  a  jnst  idea  of  bo  glorioiia  a  hero :  whorefore,  having  paid 

The  hero  grants  bis  poet's  petition,  and  rises  in  a  glorious  anit  of  armor, 

gaaed  for  the  enlargement  of  his  notions. 

(Pope  says  if  this  be  any  thing  more  than  mere  fable,  one 
would  be  apt  to  imi^ne  it  insinuated  his  contracting  a  blicd- 
ness  by  too  intense  apphcation  while  he  wrote  the  Iliad.) 

Home's  sarcastic  fling  at  the  clergy  in  a  note  to  the  first 
volume  of  his  history  is  not  original.     He  says, — 

The  ambition  of  the  clergy  con  often  be  aatiafied  only  by  promoting  igno. 
raneo,  and  aupersljtlon,  and  impUeit  faith,  and  pious  frauds;  and  having  got 
wbat  Archimedes  only  wanted,— an 0th 9 r  world  on  which  ho  could  fix  his  en- 
^ue,— no  wonder  they  move  this  world  at  tbeir  pleasure. 

In  Prydek's  DoTi  Seiasitan,  Dorax  thus  addresses  the 
Mufti  :~ 

Content  you  with  monopoli«!ng  Heaven, 
And  let  this  lllUe  hanging  ball  alone ; 
For,  give  yuu  bnt  a  foot  of  consoionce  there, 
And  yon,  like  Arcliimadaa,  toss  the  globe. 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


■[al  song- — Absaltmi  tmd  AoMit^liel. 

aimilai  language  in  addressing  Lis  friend  Dr. 


.  Dryden  Bays  of  the  Earl  of  Shaftesbury, 

Dasid  for  him  his  tuneful  harp  had 
Aad  Heaven  had  wsuited  one  immoi 
Pope  adopts 
Arhuthnot :— ■ 

Friend  of  my  iife  I  Hiiieh  did  not  jou  pro! 
The  world  had  itantad-manj  an  idle  song. 


Seneca  said,  eighteen  centuries  ago, — 

NullumioagnumingeniuDiahaque  mistura dement™ est :—i>eIVonguii,i 

*nd  Aristotle  bad  said  it  before  him  (Prohlemaia). 


PraiSo  nndeserved  ia  satire  in  disguise. — Pope  :  Tmil.  Sbraee. 

Sir  Walter  Scott  says  in  bis  Woodstock, — in  the  scene 
where  Alice  Lee,  in  the  presence  of  Cbarles  IT.  under  tbe  as- 
sumed name  of  Louis  Kerneguy,  describes  tbe  character  she 
supposes  the  king  to  bave : — 

Ecioiisueaa  thnt  the  real  Ciiarlea  fell  Ear  short  of  his  ideal  character  as  de- 


Ye  litOe 


atara,  hide  your  diminished  raya. — Pope  :  Epistle  to  Balhta-a, 

At  whose  sight  all  the  Btars 
ido  their  diminished  heads. — MiLTON. 


But  tindioato  the  waya  of  Qod 
And  justiff  the  waja  of  Ood  tc 


adisB  Lost, 


On  Bntler  who  can  tliinli  without  jnst  rage, 

The  glory  and  the  soandal  of  the  ago? — Oldham:!  Satire  againit  Poetry, 

Proljably  borrowed  by  Pope  in  tbe  following  lines  : — 

At  length  Erasmus,  that  groat  injured  name. 

The  glory  of  the  piiosihood  and  the  shame. — Essag  on  Iriliclein, 


lyGoogle 


^44  PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 

■  And  more  tmo  jf>y  MnrceHaa,  exMetX,  feela, 
Thon  Cfflsar  with  a  sonafe  at  his  hods,— Popk  :  ftsnj  dm  Ifan, 

Drawn  from  Bolingbrokb,  wlio  plagiarized  tho  idea  from 
Seneca,  wlio  says, — 

0  MarcBllae,  happier  when  Brutus  opprovea  Shj  asila  than  when  tho  com- 
monwealth approved  thj  oucaulship. 

For  modes  of  faith  lot  graceless  iiealote  fight: 

He  can't  bo  wrong  whose  life  is  in  the  right.— Pope  !  Essaij  on  Mm. 

■      Taken  from  Cowley  : — 

Hia  faith  perhaps  in  sumo  nioe  tenets  might 
Be  nrong:  his  life,  I'm  sure,  whs  in  the  right. 

Is  it,  in  heaven,  a  crime  to  love  too  well  ?— Pope  :  Elepj. 

Imitated  from  Cbashawe's  couplet: — 

And  I,— what  is  my  crime?     I  cannot  teU, 
Unless  it  be  a  crime  to  have  loved  loo  well. 
IiAMABTiNE,  in  his  Jocelyn,  has  the  same  expression : — 

Bst-ce  un  crime,  0  mon  Dien,  de  trop  aimer  lo  beau ! 
A  wit  with  dunces,  and  a  dunoe  nith  wita.—Brininod. 

This  smart  piece  of  antitlieais  Pope  borrowed  from  Quinc- 
TiLiAN,  who  says, — 

Qui  stultia  eruditi  videri  volunt;  eruditi  stnlti  videntnr. 

Be.  Johnson  also  hurled  this  missile  at  Lord  Chesterfield, 
calling  him  "A  lord  among  wits,  and  a  wit  among  lords." 
The  earl  had  offended  the  rugged  lexicographer,  whose  harba- 
rous  manners  in  company  Chesterfield  holds  up,  in  his  Letters 
to  Im  son,  as  things  to  be  avoided. 

And  beautj  draws  ns  with  a  single  hair.— Pope  :  Sape  o/ Ae  Locli. 

This  has  a  strong  afSnity  with  a  passage  in  Howell's 
Zieiters : — 

'Tis  a  ponerfal  sei;  they  were  too  strong  for  the  first,  for  tho  strongest, 
and  for  the  wisest  man  that  was  :  they  must  needs  be  strong,  when  one  iair 

Prinees  and  lords  may  flonrish  or  may  fade ; 

A  breath  can  make  them,  as  a  breath  haa  made. — GoLDBKITH ;  Deserted  Fi'I. 

Prohablj  from  Be  CAui,  an  old  French  poet,  who  says, — 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


645 


Kings  nre  like  stars, — they  lise  and  sol^ — ihei/  hare 

The  vmnhipqf  the  world,  but  no  repoie.~SaBi,i.Ei:  Hellca. 

Stolen  from  Lord  Bacon  : — 

Ftiuees  are  like  to  heavenly  bodies,  iihicli  canse  good  or  oril  times, 

Bdrke,  in  Speaking  of  the  morals  of  France  prfor  to  the 
Revolution,  says, — 

VioB  itaelf  lost  halt  lis  evil  %  loeing  aJl  its  groaaness. 

This  stawment — the  falsity  of  which  is  apparent — is  dis- 
proved by  a  score  oi  contradictions    Let  Lord  Bacon  suffice : — 

Anothar   [of  the  Robli  na]  noteth  a  putition  in   moral    pIiHosopHy,  that 


bulf  good  and  half  evi  —Ad  a    fms  I 

Things  not  to  be  trusted  — 


a/x™ 


rupt  u 


The  01 


of  a 


log. 


A  harlut'a  i 

EowiU'e  Literature  and  Ramanee  af  Nanhera  Europe. 
Orant  I  may  never  be  so  foad 
To  traet  man  in  bU  oath  or  bond, 
Or  a  harlot  for  her  wocping. 
Or  a  dog  Ihat  seams  a^sleeping.  i 

Apemaatus'  Groee.-^Timoa  <:/ Atheas. 

Tlie  collocation  of  dogs  and  harlots  ia  both  passages  is  very 


Shakspeare's  dreamy  Dane  says, — 

A  sentimeDt  very  nearly  expressed  in  Horace's  Ode  t 
Venus :— 

Jam  nci!  spes  animi  ctedula  mutul. 
Heo  oortnro  jnvnt  mero,  Ac— ifft.  lY. 
(As  for  mo,  noithur  worann,  nor  youth,  nor  tho  fond  hopu 
of  mutual  inclination,  4o.  delight  me.) 


lyGoogle 


646  PARALLEL 

Tlio  world's  a  thoatca,  the  cattb  a  Etage, 

Wtieh  God  and  imture  do  with  aotora  fill  ; 
Kings  have  their  entrancs  nith  due  eqttipaga. 
And  some  their  pails  play  wsU,  and  others  ill. 

THOuiS  HevwOOD!  Analogy  for  A'Hara,  1612. 
All  Ihe  worU'a  a  stage. 
And  all  tJie  men  and  wemen  merely  playotB : 
Thej  hare  their  esits  and  their  eutronees  j 
And  one  man  in  his  lift  plajE  many  parts. 

Shaksfkabb  :  Aa  Yaa  Like  It. 

Pall*adjL3,  a  Greek  poet  of  tlie  third  century,  has  the  fol- 
lowing, translated  by  Merivale : — 

This  life  a  theatre  we  well  may  call, 
Where  every  actor  mast  perform  nitb  art. 

Or  langh  it  through  and  make  a  farce  of  all. 
Or  learn  to  bear  with  grace  liis  tragio  part. 

Pythagoras,  who  lived  nearly  two  centuries  later,  also 

This  world  is  like  a  stage  whereon  many  play  their  parts. 

-  Among  the  epigrams  of  Paleadas  may  be  found  tlie  ori- 
ginal of  a  modem  saw,  the  purport  of  whioh  is  that  an  igno- 
ramus, by  maintaining  a  prudent  silence,  may  pass  for  a  wise 

Shakspeare  uses  it  in  tie  Merchant  of  Venice : — 


We  oomo  crying  hither: 
Thon  knowest  tho  first  time  that  we  smell  the  air 

We  wawl  and  cry. 

When  we  are  born,  we  cry  that  we  are  oomo 
To  this  great  stage  of  fools.— Siij  Lear,  IV.  6. 

Tum  porro  pner, 

Vagituqne  locum  lugiibri  complet,  ut  fequum  est 
Cui  tan  tum  in  Tita  restet  tranaire  malomm. 

LncEBTins :  De  Hei; 

Thei 


lyClOOglC 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


647 


A  Bimilai  form  of  expression  occurs  in  tte  Book  of  Job,  x. 
21,  andxvi.  22j  tut  it  ia  probable,  from  this  aad  other  passages, 
that  Shakspeare's  acquamfaace  with  the  Latiu  ■writers  was 
greater  than  has  been  generally  supposed.  One  of  the  com- 
mentators on  Hamlet,  in  pointing  out  the  aimilaritj  of  ideas 
in  the  lines  commencing,  "  The  coet,  that  is  the  trumpet  to 
the  morn,"  &c.  (Act  Z)  and  the  hjmn  of'  St.  Ambrose  in  the 
Salisbury  collection, — 

Noctis  profundie  pervigil; 
NootHrnO,  lus  viantibus, 
A  uocte  nootem  segregans. 
Hoe  exeitatns  Lucifsr, 
Solvit  polum  osligine  ; 
Hoc  omnia  errorum  chorns 
Viam  aaoeiidi  deserit 
Gailo  oanente  spea  redit,  Ac, 

has  the  following  remark.  "Some  future  Dr.  Farmer  may,  per- 
haps, sJiow  how  Shakspeare  heoame  acquainted  with  this  pass- 
age, without  Leing  able  to  read  the  original ;  for  the  resem- 
blance is  too  close  te  be  aeoidenfal.  But  this,  with  many  other 
passages,  and  especially  his  original  Latinisms  of 'phrase,  give  ■ 
evidence  enough  of  a  certain  degree  of  acquaintance  with 
Latin, — doubtless  not  familiar  nor  scholar-like,  but  sufficient  to 
give  a  coloring  to  tis  style,  and  to  open  to  him  many  treasures 
of  poetical  thought  and  diction  not  accessible  to  tie  merely 
English  reader.  Suoh  a  degree  of  acquirement  might  well 
appear  low  to  an  accomplished  Latinist  like  Ben  Jonson,  and 
authorize  him  to  say  of  his  friend, — 

Though  thou  hadat  email  Latin  and  leas  Grcel:;— 

yet  the  very  mention  of  his  'small  Latin'  indicates  that  Ben 
knew  that  he  had  some." 

■Mr,  Fox,  the  orator,  remarked  on  one  occasion  that  Shak- 
apeare  must  have  had  some  acquaintance  with  Euripides,  for  be 
could  trace  resemblances  between  passages  of  their  dramas : 
e.g.  what  Alcesfis  in  her  last  moments  says  about  her  servants 
is  like  what  tte  dying  Queen  Katharine  (in  Henry  the  Eighth) 
says  about  hers,  &c 


lyGoogle 


bin  PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 

That  Shakspeare  "mgy  often  he  tracked  in  the  snow"  of 
Terence,  as  Drjden  remarks  of  Ben  Jbnson,  ia  evident  from 
the  following : — 

Master,  it  is  no  time  to  chide  joa  now : 

ASeotioa  la  not  rated  from  thelienrt. 

If  lore  hath  touched  jou,  naught  roni^ina  but  so, — 

Saliiae  te  oaplum  ptant  quias  mimmo.— Taming  o/tlie  Shrew,  I.  L 

Tho  last  line  is  manifestly  an  alteration  of  the  words  of  Pai'- 
meno  ia  The  Eunuch  of  Terence  : — 

Quid  agns,  nisi  ut  te  redimas  eaplam  quam  queae  mmi'jno  f — Ael  I.  3e.  I. 

In  another  play  Terence  says, — 


"lis  nil  mca'a  ofGeo  to  speuk  patience 
To  tliosa  tliat  nring  under  the  load  of  sorrow; 

To  bo  so  moral  when  he  shall  endure 

The  like  himself.— J/uci  Ado  about  Nmliing,  V.  1, 

Apropos  of  this  sentiment,  Sttipt  says, — 

I  never  knew  a  man  who  ooold  not  bear  tho  misforfunos  of  others  with  tho 
most  Chriatiao  resignation— rioi/jAU  o»  FaWoua  SubjeeU. 

And  La  Kochbpoucaulb, — 

We  have  all  of  us  auffioient  fortitude  to  hear  tha  misfortunes  of  othors.— 
Jf™.  30. 

Falstaff  says,  in  1  Henry  lY.  ii.  4, — 

For  though  the  ciimomile,  the  more  it  ia  trodden  on,  the  fesler  it  growa,  jet 
youth,  the  more  it  is  waslid,  tho  soonar  it  wears. 

Shakspeare  eYidcntly  here  parodied  an  expression  in  Sir 

JonN  LtLY's  Eupkues  : — 

Thongh  the  earaorjiile,  the  more  it  is  trodden  and  pressed  downs,  the  more 
it  spreadeth ;  yet  the  violet,  the  olUner  it  Is  haodled  and  touched,  tiie  aooncr 
it  withereth  and  decaieth. 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


Two  verses  Id    Tltiis  Androniovs  appear  to  have  pleased 
Shakspeare  so  well  tlijit  he  twice  subsequently  closely  copied 


Was  evor  noman  in  this  humor  won  1—EieJiard  IIL,  I.  2. 

Though  Shakspeare  has  drawn  freely  from  others,  he  is  him- 
self a  mine  from  which  many  buiidei^  have  quarried  their  ma- 
terials,— a  Coliseum 

"from  wliose  mass 
"Walls,  palaces,  halt  eilies,  have  been  raared." 
Honor  and  shnme  from  no  oondltion  rise ; 
Act  >Ydl  jour  part,  there  aH  the  honor  lica.— Pofe  :  .Essay  on  Man.  ' 

This  is  only  a  new  rendering  of  the  thought  thus  expressed 
by  Shakspeare : — 

From  loweat-plaoa  Bhen  virtuous  things  proceed. 

The  place  is  dignified  by  the  doer's  isei.—AlVs  Wdl  that  E«da  Wdl,  U.  3. 

Let  rusty  steel  a  nhile  basbeathed. 

And  all  those  bareh  and  rugged  sounds 

Of  bastinadoes,  cuts,  and  wounds, 

Bxchiingea  to  love's  more  gentle  stjle.- 


cadful 


delightful  m 


Of,  P.  II.  e.  1. 
lichai-d  III.,  I.  1. 


'The  mUitary  figure  of  Shakspeare'a  musical  lines, — 

Beauty's  ensign  yet 
Is  crimson  in  thy  lips  and  on  thj  cheeks. 
And  Death's  pale  flag  Is  not  advanced  there.— JJonifo  mid  JuUet, 

3  closely  imitated  by  Chamberlain  :— 


isign 


in  her 


There 


loat 


Dreamed  by  a  happy  man,  while  the  dark  es 
la  slowly  brightening  to  his  bridal  morn.— G 
i  from  the  Merchant  of  Venice: — 


lyGoogle 


650  PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 

Then  music  i 
As  thoae  dulcet  sDUuds  in  break  of  day, 
Tlis 

How  can  we 
eelvea?— Li  Bi 

Touts  r^v^don  d'un  secroC  est  la  loate  de  celai  qui  I'a  <Km66. — La.  BbiJ' 
YEiu::  DelaSoeim. 

The  boBora  of  a  friend  would  hold  a  secret 

Mine  own  could  not  oontaio. — Massingeh  :  Vnnaia'ral  Combat,  V.  2. 

ifont.— Do  not  believe  it 

.flos.— BelicTe  Blmt? 

Sbaeefeabb:  Hamkt,  lY.  2. 


Anger  ia  like 

A  full-hot  horse,  who  being  allowed  his  way, 

Self  mettle  tires  him.—iTenry  VII/.  1. 1. 

ined  horse, 

iB:   Unaatm-al  Combat. 

Is  this  tho  Talbot  ao  much  feared  abroad 

That  with  his  name  the  mothers  stUl  their  babes  ?— Benry  VI.  IL  3. 

Nor  ehall  SebaBtian's  formidable  name 

Be  longer  used  to  lull  the  orjing  babe— Deydeb  :  Don  Sebaiiian. 

Chili's  dark  matrons  long  shall  tame 

The  froward  child  with  Bertram's  name.— Scott  :  Eohebj/. 

It  were  better  to  be  eaten  to  death  with  rust  than  to  ba   scoured  to 
nothing  bj  perpetual  motion — Henry  TV.,  Seotmd  Part,  L  2. 

Reversed  bj  Byhon  :— 

Better  to  sink  beneatli  the  shook 

Than  moulder  piecemeal  on  tho  rook. — Giaoirr, 

'Tis  her  breathing  thni 
Perfumes  the  ohamber  tlius.— CjmfteJine. 

No  lips  did  seem  so  fair 
In  his  oonoeit— through  which  he  thinks  doth  fly 
So  sweet  a  breath  that  doth  perfamo  the  air. 

MinsTON:  PygaiaUoa,' s  Imags. 
Thrioe  is  he  armed  thatbatb  his  qnnrrel  juEtj 
And  be  bat  naked,  though  looked  up  in  steel, 
■Whose  oonsclBiieo  with  mjustlce  is  oorrupled.— 2  BemTj  YI.  III.  2. 


lyClOOglC 


Double,  dou 

ble,  t 

".'," 

"ocL 

ifiJ. 

We  shall  no 
Qusiudo  ull 

""ifv 

upon  his  like 
anLetpiirein?- 

again.- 

-S^Ut,  L 

Kon6  but  h 

maelf 
sAlo 

oanbeh 
dfflpar«« 

u? 

aileL- 

Theobald. 

Nemo  est  niai  ipse. — Sbhe^oa  :  Serwtlea  Furen^. 

The  following  song  from  Shakspeare's  Measwre  for  Med- 
ure,  commeiiciiig  as  follows,  ia  copied  verbatim  in  Beaomont 


That  so  sweetly  ware  fori 

And  thoaa  ejas,  the  break  c 

Lights  that  do  miaload  tb 


The  following  line  occurs  both  in   Pope's  Dunciad  and 
Addison's  Campaign :-~ 

Ridoa  on  the  whirlwind,  aud  directs  the  storm. 

Ben  Jonson  horrowed  his  oelehrated  ballad  To  Oelia, — 
Drink  to  ma  only  with  thine  eyes,  &c., 
from  Philostratus,  a  Greek  poet,  wio  flourished  at  the  coait 
of  the  Emperor  Seyerus. 

In  Milton's  desoription  of  the  lazar-house  occurs  the  fol- 
lowing confused  melaptor : — 

Sight  so  deform  what  Seort  ofmck  oould  long 
J}ry-s}/ed  behold? 

Derived  from  a  similai  comhination  in  Tibtjllus  : — 


lyGoogle 


PASSAGES. 

Wicn  ChriBt,  at  Cane's  feast,  Ijy  power  divina, 
IriEpirtd  coM  nator  with  Iha  warmlh  of  widb, 
Geo  i  oriod  thay,  nbila  in  rcdd'ning  tide  it  gushmJ, 
Hhe  bashful  water  aaw  ila  God  and 'blushed.— A Aa OS 
lympha  pudica  Deum  vidit  et  erubuit.'"'— Richahd  C 


His  wealth  is  sumuied,  and  this  !a  all  his  atort 

Thia  poor  men  get,  and  great  men  get  no  mart 

G.  Webstek: 

>d  made  the  oountrj,  and  man  made  the  town. — 
id  tbfl  first  garden  made,  and  the  flrst  city  Cain.- 

Ilrpoeriay,  detest  her  aa  we  may. 
May  elnim  this  merit  still,— that  she  aflmi 
The  worth  of  what  she  mimioa  with  such  t 
And  thus  giras  virtue  indirect  applausa.— 


La  viae  rend  hommage  il  la  vi 


And  its  familiar  voice  wearies  not  everi 
They  who  inspire  it  moat  are  fortunate, 
Aslamnow;  but  ihosa  who  fool  it  moat 
Arehoppier  still,— Shelley:  Pmaieikeua  Unhowad. 
It  is  better  to  doaire  than  to  enjoy,  to  lore  than  to  he  loved. — 

make  us  prooaer  still  when  we  can  love  her  for  herself  alone,  without  the  old 
of  any  such  selfish  refleotion.    This  is  the  religion  of  love.- Hailitt:  Oka. 


little  singular  that  Mr.  Arvine,  in  his  eioellent  Cyohprndia, 
d  Dryden,  while  hoys  at  school,  equal  orodit  for  originatiug, 
this  beaotiM  idea- 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


The  tiuik  is  bnt  the 


Them 


•e  the  gi 


'  that 


1  weigh  the  miui,  not  his  title;  'tis  not  the  king's  stamp  oan  make  the  me- 
tal hetter  or  heavier.  Yqui-  lord  is  a,  leaden  shilling,  which  yuu  hend  every 
way,  and  dehoEoa  the  stamp  ho  beans.  Wvchekly  :  Plain  Dealer. 

Titles  oflionor  are  like  the  impressions  on  coin,  which  add  no  value  to  gold 
and  silver,  hut  only  render  braas  ourrent^STKnBE  :  iTornii, 


Kings  do  with 
they  plei 


with  pieces  of  monoy:  they 
e,  and  we  are  obliged  to  reeeire  them  at 
valuo.— La  RocUEFOFcinLn :  Max.  160. 


Kossuth's  "  To  him  that  wills,  nothing  is  impossible,"*  is 
thus  expressed  by  La  KocHErouoAULD : — 

Nothing  is  imposaible:  there  are  ways  whleh  lead  to  OToiy  thing;  and  if  we 
bod  sufficient  will,  we  shuuld  always  have  sufficient  menus.— Max.  2a5, 

SHELLKY.givea  the  idea  as  follows  : — 

It  is  onr  will 
That  thiTs  enohains  us  to  permitted  ill 
We  might  be  otberwise :  we  might  be  all 
We  drcajn  of,  happy^  high^  m^esIicaL 
Where  is  the  beanty,  love,  and  truth  we  seek 
But  in  our  minds  ?  and  if  we  were  not  weak. 
Should  we  be  less  in  deed  than  in  desire  ? 

Julian  aad  Maddolo. 
To  most  men,  esporienee  is  like  the  stcrn-ligbts  of  a  ship,  which  illamiQe 
only  the  track  it  has  passed. — Colehidge. 

La  RocHEFOFOAOi.n:  -Wm.  430. 

The  Siuue  idea  may  be  found  in  the  Adelphi  of  Terence, 
Act  V.  So.  2,  V.  1-4. 

For  those  that  fly  may  flgtt  again, 

"Which  he  can  never  do  thaf  3  eiaia. —Hudih-ai. 

He  who  fights  and  runs  away 

May  live  to  fight  another  day. — Sir  Johb  Mibhes. 

sieur  ie  Compte,"  said  his 


foolish  word  in  my  presence." 


lyGoogle 


654  paHj1I.lei:.  passages. 

But  Eemosthbkeb,  the  famous  Grecian  orator,  had  said, 
long  before, — 


Horace,  in  deacrihing  such  a  caprioious  kind  of  love,  uses 
the  following  language ; — 

Laporem  Tiraafor  ut  alta 

Ib  nive  sealatur,  poeltom  sic  tnngero  nolit ; 

Cantat  et  spponit:  meuB  est  amor  huio  similiB;  nam 

Transvolat  io  medio  poslta,  et  fugientia  oaptal,— SirirM,  Book  L  ii., 

which  is  Bearly   a  translation  of  the   eleventh   epigram  of 
Callimachus.  . 

■What  woftil  stuff  tiia  madrigal  would  be 
In  some  starved  hackney  sonneteer,  or  mo  I 
Bat  Ut  a  lord  onoo  own  the  happy  linos. 
How  the  wit  brightens!  how  the  style  refines  1 

POPB ;  Essay  on  Criticam. 

MoLiiEEE  Las  the  same  sentiment : — 

Tons  les  discoura  sont  des  eottises 
Partant  d'un  homme  sans  6olati 

Si  o'6tiut  UQ  grand  qui  parlat. 

It  may  also  be  found  in  Ennitis,  Ettripides,  and  other 
writers.  The  last  notability  who  has  expressed  the  idea  is 
Emerson,  who  say  a, — 

It  adds  a  great  deal  to  the  force  ot  an  opinion  to  know  that  there  ia  &  mnn 
of  mark  and  likelihood  behind  it. 

Others  may  use  the  ocean  as  their  road, 
Only  the  Euglish  make  It  tlieir  abods : — 
We  iread  the  UUovk  with  a  eteady  foot,— Wailer. 

.Campbell  adopts  the  thoughts  of  these  italicized  words  in 
the  Mariners  of  England : — 

Britannia  needs  no  bnlwark. 
No  towers  along  the  sleep  : 
Her  match  is  on  the  monntain-waves. 
Her  home  is  on  the  deep. 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES.. 


Kan  Talda  tha  lil;  all  her  snesti^ass  up. 

And  slip!  into  the  bosom  of  the  lake; 

Bo  fold  thyself,  mj  dearest,  thou,  and  slip 

Into  my  bosom,  and  be  lost  in  me.— TenhI-sok  :  Prii 

And  like  a  my  on 
She  floats  upon  th 

an 

er  floating, 
er  of  his  th 

nghts. 

Tou  must  cither 
Fall  or  trimopb 
You  must  either 
Must,  be  Blare  or 
Masf,  in  fine,  be 

soar  or  stoop, 
stand  or  droop 
serve  or  govern 
must  ho  eovere 
bioek  or  wedge, 

gni 

Lockhart  says,  in  Ws  Life  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  "  It  waa  on 
this  occasion,  I  believe,  that  Scott  first  saw  Lis  friend's  brother 
Reginald  (Hebek),  in  after-dajs  the  Apostolic  Bishop  of  Cal- 
cutta. He  had  just  been  declared  the  successful  competitor 
for  that  year's  poetical  prize,  and  read  to  Scott  .at  breakfast,  in 
Braaennose  College,  the  MS.  of  his  Palesline.  Scott  observed 
that  in  the  verses  on  Solomon's  Temple  one  striking  circum- 
stance had  escaped  him,  namely,  that  no  tools  were  used  in  its 
erection.  Eeginald  retired  for  a  few  minutes  to  the  corner  of 
the  room,  aad  returned  with  the  beautiful  lines, — 

Ho  hammer  fell,  no  ponderous  ases  rung : 

le  tall  palm  the  mystic  iiibrio  sprung. 


Mt^osl 


silenee 


CowpER  had  previously  expressed  the  same  idea : — 

No  sound  of  hammer  nor  of  saw  was  there ; 
loe  upon  iee,  &o.— Poiace  of  Ice. 

Milton  had  also  said, — 

a  fabrio  huge 


Eoso  lik, 


—Paradise 


Speech  is  tlie  light,  the  morning  of  the  mind ; 

It  spreads  the  baautsona  images  abroad 

■Whicl!  else  lie  furled  and  shrouded  in  tha  soul.— 

Drtden  evidently  had  in  mind  the  language  of  Themtsto- 
;les  to  the  King  of  Persia : — 


lyClOOglC 


656  PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 

8peec!i  is  tike  cloth  of  arrna  opened  and  pat  abroad,  nhereby  Clia  imagery 
doth  appear  id  figure,  whereas  in  thoughts  they  lie  but  in  packs  (i.  e.  rolled 
np,  or  packed  up). 

Eilaux  ttat  ipoSe,  and  eloquence  of  ejos.— Pope  :  Homer's  Iliad,  Book  XIV. 

Voltaire,  in  hia  (Edipus,  makes  Jocasta  say, — 

Tout  parle  centre  nous,  juaqu'S,  notre  Bileace. 

In  Milton's  Stimson  Af/onCstes  we  find, — 

The  deeds  themE^lves,  theugit  mute,  spoke  loud  the  doer. 


A  similar  thought  may  bo  found  in  Dante  : — 

Che  rionrdarai  del  tempo  folice 
Nella  miaaria.— /ir/erao,  Canto  T.  121. 
(There  ia  no  greater  pnin  than  to  raeoll  a  happj  time  in  wretch eduBSS.) 

Also  Chauoee  : — 

For  of  Fortune's  shnrpe  [idversife 
The  worst  kind  of  jnfortuna  is  this ; 
A  man  to  biive  bean  in  pvoBperita 
.And  it  rememlier  nheu  it  pnssid  ia. 

T,-oilut  and  Civeatde,  B.  IIL 

The  same  thought  occura  in  the  writings  of  other  Italian 
poets.  See  Marino,  Ad^ne,  c.  xiv. ;  Fortingubera,  Ricci- 
ardetto,  e.  xi. ;  and  Petbakoh,  canzone  46.  The  original  was 
prohahly  in  Bobtius,  de  Cmsol.  Phihsoph. : — 

In  omni  aiivcrsitatc  fortnnte  infalioisEimnm  genus  est  infortnnii  fuisse  feli- 

The  famous  pun  in  the  imitation  of  Ckabbe  in  the  Rejected 


The  youth,  with  joy  unfeigned. 
Regained  the  felt,  and  felt  nbat  ie  regained, 

and  of  Holmes  in  his  Urania  : — 

Mount  the  new  Castor  : — ice  ilaelf  will  melt; 
Boots,  gloves,  may  fail ;  the  hat  ia  alwaya  felt, 

had  been  anticipated  by  Thomas  Heywood  in  a  son 

Bat  of  all  /rfW  that  may  bs  felt. 
Give  me  your  English  beaver. 


lyGoogle 


PAHALLEt 


657 


Ealstafp's  pun  : — 

Indeed  I  am  in  the  waist  two  yards  abont;  but  I  am  now  about  no  loatte; 
I  am  about  thrift,— (jtfen^  Wirnn  of  Wiiidaor.) 

had  also  been  anticipated,  and  may  be  found  in  Heywood's 
"  Epigrammes,"  1562 :— 

'■  Where  am  I  leaat^  hnaband  r    Quoth  he,  "In  the  icawi; 
"Wliieh.  eometh  of  this,  thou  art  Tengeanca  atiaitr-laoed. 
Where  am  I  biggsat,  nife?"    "  la  the  waste,"  quoth  she, 
"  Por  all  is  waste  in  you,  as  far  aa  I  see." 

The  same  play  on  the  word  oooura  subsequently  in  Shie- 
ley's  comedy  of  The  Wedding,  1629  ; — 

He  is  a  groat  man  indeed;  somefhiog  given  to  fhoinnit!,  for  he  Uybs  within 
■  no  rtD8onoi;=  romyas.. 

Moore,  in  his  song  Dear  Harp  of  my  Country,  sings,— 

If  the  pulse  of  the  patriot,  soldier,  or  loFer 

Hate  throbbed  at  our  lay,  'tis  thy  glory  alone; 

I  una  but  as  the  wind  passing  heedlessly  oyer. 
And  all  the  wild  sweetneaa  I  waked  was  thy  own;— 

an  idea  probably  caught  from  Horace's  Ode  to  Melpomene : — 

Totum  muneria  hoo  tui  eat. 


Kom] 


:™n  lyra 


Quod  Epirt 

(  That  I  am  pointed  out  by  the  flngera  of  paasera-by  aa  the  e 
of  the  Roman  lyre,  is  entirely  thy  gift;    that  I  breathe  ai 


Daughters  of  Zeal— Moorb;  Even 

Beneath  the  moonlight  aky 

The  festal  warblings  flowed 
Where  miudens  to  the  Queen  of  Heaven 
Wove  the  gay  dance.- Kkble  :  Christian  Yea 


Efrns  :  Greeir  SVow,  <6fl, 
I  was  but  an  approntiee,  hut  woman  when  she 
— (7upirf's  Whirligig  (161)7). 


lyClOOglC 


)58  PAKALLEL 

A  book,  upon  ntoae  leaves  some  chosen  plants 

In  nndeoajing  beauty  irare  preserved  ; — 
Mute  reeister,  to  him,  of  time  and  place 
And  Tsiioua  fiactuatiDDS  in  tlie  bTeasli ; 
To  her  a  moQument  of  fiiithl^l  love 
Conquered,  and  iu  tranquillity  retaineiJ. 

Like  flower-leaves  in  a  preoioua  volume  stored. 

To  solaoe  and  reliava 
Some  heart  too  weary  of  the  restless  world. — Kbdlb  ;  OkrisHna  Fear. 

Her  pretty  feat^ 
Like  Emilos,  did  creep 
A  little  out,  and  then. 
As  if  Ihey  started  at  bo-peep. 
Did  soon  draw  in  again. — Uebhick. 
Imitated  by  Sis  John  Suckling  in  his  ballad  of  The  Wed- 

Her  ibet  lieneatli  her  petticoat 
Like  littlo  mice  stole  in  and  out, 

As  if  tliey  feared  the  liglit ; 
But,  oh,  she  donees  snch  a  way, 

la  half  so  fine  a  sight  I 

So  the  Btruolt  eagle,  stretched  upon  the  pWn, 
Ho  more  Qirough  roUing  clouds  to  soar  again. 
Viewed  his  owa  feather  on  the  fatal  dart, 
And  winged  the  shaft  that  quivered  in  his  heatt: 
Keen  were  his  pangs,  but  keener  far  to  feel 
He  nursed  tlie  pinion  which  impelied  the  steel. 
While  the  same  plumage  that  had  warmed  liis  nest 
Scank  the  last  life-diop  of  his  bleeding  breast. 

Byhoh;  On  the  Death  of  Sirke  WhUe. 

WaIiLER  says,  in  his  JJines  to  a  Lady  singing  a  song  of  his 


Moore  uaes  tho  same  figure  : — 

Like  a  young  e^le,  wlio  has  lent  his  plumi 
To  fledge  tlie  shaft  hy  which  he  meets  his  t 


lyGoogle 


PAKALLEL 

See  their  own  feathers  plusked  to  wing  the  dart 

Which  rank  corrHptioa  dasiines  for  their  hcEirt.— CorngKfon. 

The  original  in  Tlie  Myrmidons  of  Eschylus  haa  been  thua 
translated : — 

An  eagle  ones, — so  Lihyan  legends  Bay, — 
Struck  to  the  hearf,  on  earih  expiring  lay, 
And,  gasing  on  the  shaft  that  winged  tlje  blow, 
Thus  spoke :— "  Whilst  others'  UIs  from  others  flow. 
To  my  own  plames,  alas  1  my  fate  I  owe." 

Bran  as  a  hroken  mirror,  wbieh  the  glaaa 

In  erery  fragment  multiplies,  and  makes 
A  thonsand  images  of  one  thai  was. 

The  same,  and  still  the  more,  the  more  it  breaka. 

Evbon:  GhildeBarold. 

bj  the  following  passage  :— 

did  by  his  glass  when  he  saw  a  scurry  face  In  it  ' 


ir  thai  fli 


as  bad  in 
y  of  Melaimholy,  Part  H.,  Soot.  3,  (mi 


RON:  Don  Juan. 
Jles  aiment  raraoar.— jWna  494. 

In  the  same  place  Byron  adds  ; — 

Although,  no  doabl,  her  first  of  loTO-affnirB 
la  that  to  whioh  her  heart  is  wholly  granted. 

And  in  some  observations  upon  an  artiole  in  Bluckwood's 


'a  gallantry.     There  ore  women  w 


This  idea 

On  pent,  fe-oi 


30  borrowed  from  La  Koohefoucaulb  :- 

IS  femmes  qui  n'nnt  jamais  eu  do  golanterie ;  mail 
n'cQ  aient  jamais  eu  qu'une. — Max.  J3. 


lyGoogle 


Even  fVnin  out  thy  slime 
Tho  monsters  of  the  deep  are  toimcA.—Ohilde  Harold. 

Tet  moDBlers  from  thy  laige  incraasa  wa  find, 

Bngenaered  in  Ibe  alima  thou  lear'et  behind.— Drydeh  :  The  Jfedal. 
I  am  not  nltogetiier'  of  such  cloj 

As  rots  into  ths  aouis  of  those  whom  I  surrey. — Childe  Harold. 
The  gods,  a,  hindnsEB  T  with  thanks  rapay, 
Had  fonnod  me  of  another  sort  of  clay.^CHUECnif:!/. 

What  ^ih  from  UmtElf^on  fleet 

To  lones  tiibagh  mora  and  more  remoia. 
Still,  still  pnranes,  where'ar  I  be. 

The  blight  of  life,— the  demon  Thought,— OJ«rfe  Harold. 
PatritB  qnisesulaequoquofugitP- HOBiOB:  Odeto  Qrosfline. 

Vide  also  Epist.  XI.  28. 

To-morrow  for  the  Mooa  we  depart. 

But  not  to-night,— to-night  is  for  tho  honrt.— BvHON:   Ths  hhmd. 
Nuno  Tino  pallite  ouras; 

Craa  ingons  iterabirons  fcquor. — HOKIOI !  Ode  lo  itfunaliHs  Plancm, 
(Now  drown  your  cares  in  wine ; 
To-morrow  we  shall  trararse  tho  groat  brine.) 

,  DarDEN,  alluding  to  his  work,  says, — 

■When  tt  was  only  a  eonfuaed  mass  of  thoughts  twoAling  orer  one  another 
in  tha  dark ;  when  the  fancy  was  jet  in  its  fint  Kotk,  mosing  the  sleepily 
image!  of  Ihiiigs  towards  the  light,  there  to  be  distinguished,  and  there  either 
to  beoAoseii  orrqected  by  the  judaiueHi. — Rival  Ladies  (16B4), 

BykON  thus  appropriates  the  idea : — 

Of  darkly  brooding  thoughts!  my  ih,ncy  is 

In  her  Jirat  inork,  more  naariy  lo  the  light 

Holding  Ike  sleeping  images  of  things 

For  tho  selection  of  the  pausing  judgment— floje  0/  Ve«ice,  L  2. 

And  if  I  laugh  at  any  mortal  thing, 

■Tis  that  I  may  not  weep.— Bruos  i  DonJaan. 

EiCHAUDBON  had  said,  long  before, — 

Indeed,  it  is  to  this  deep  concern  that  my  lovity  is  owiogi  for  I  struggle 
and  Btmggle,  and  fry  to  buffet  down  jny  etnel  reflections  as  they  rise ;  and 
whan  I  oannot,  I  ant  forced  to  try  to  make  m^Be^  laugh  thai  Imajf  not  ery ; 
for  one  or  other  I  must  do:  and  is  it  not  phUoaophy  carried  to  lie  highest 
pitch  for  a  man  to  conquer  auoh  tumnlfs  of  soul  as  I  am  sometimes  agitated 

Olariesa  Harloae,  Lot  84. 


lyClOOglC 


PASSAGES.  661 

In  tbe  Antigu<wy  of  Sic  Waltish  Scott,  Ma^Ie  says  to 
Oldbuck  of  Monkbarns  (oh.  xi.); — 

Tom  Hood,  appears  to  have  borrowed  this  idea  in  the  Song 
of  the.  Shirt : — 

It  is  not  linen  you're  bearing  out, 
But  human  creaturee'  lives. 

In  EoGERs'  poem,  Hwman  Life  ia  this  couplet  describing  a 
good  wife  :— 

A  guardian  angel  o'er  his  hearth  presi<]ing, 
Doubling  his  pleasures,  and  his  cares  dividing. 

In  the  Toiler,  No.  49,  it  ia  said  of  a  model  couple,  Amanda 
and  Florio,  that  "  their  satisfactions  are  doubled,  their  sorrows 
lessened,  by  participation." 

Of  the  buccaneering  adventurer  described  in  Eokeb^,  Sir 
Walter  Soott  says; — 

Inured  to  danger's  direst  form, 
Tornado  and  eartliquake,  flood  and  Btorm, 
Death  had  he  seen  bj  sudden  blow, 
By  wasting  plague,  by  torture  slow. 
By  mine  or  breach,  by  stool  or  hall, 
£iiew  all  his  shapes  and  seamed  them  all. 

Sir  Wai/ter  Raleigh,  in  a  letter  to  his  wife  on  the  eve,  as 
he  supposed,  of  his  execution,  speaks  of  himself  as  "one  who, 
in  his  own  respect,  dcapiseth  death  in  all  his  misshapen  and 
ugly  forms." 

Speaking  of  Burke,  Goldsmith  says  in  his  Retaliatimi : — 

Who,  bom  for  univerae,  narrowed  his  mind. 

And  to  party  gave  up  what  was  meant  for  mankind. 

Pope,  in  his  Lost  Letter  to  the  Bishop  of  Rochester,  (At- 
terbury,)  said: — 

At  this  time,  when  you  are  out  off  from  a  little  society  and  made  a  citizen 
it  large,  jou  shoald  bend  your  talents,  not  to  servo  a  party  or 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


Man  nerer  ie,  but  always  to  be,  bleat.— Pope. 
Nous  no  jouiasofls  jamais,*  nous  eaperons  toujonrs.— MAasiLLOif,  Sermnn 
pom-  le  Jour  de  Si.  Benoil. 

The  jocular  saying  of  DouGliAS  Jbrrold,  that  a  wife  of  forty 
alioiild,  like  a,  bank-note,  be  exchangeable  tor  too  of  twenty, 
ff^  anticipated  by  Bfron  : — 

Weddod  sho  nas  some  years,  and  !«  a  man 
Of  flftj,  and  anoh  huabanda  ate  in  plenty; 

And  jot,  I  think,  instead  of  anoh  a  one 

'Twere  better  to  have  tm>  of  fire-and-twentj. 

Don  Juan,  Isii. 

And  sfcill  earlier  by  Gay  in  Equivocation.    In  the  colloquy 
between  a  bishop  and  an  abbot,  the  bishop  advises: — 
These  iDdisaretiona  lend  a  b  audio 
To  lend  lay  tongues  to  give  u9  scandal 
For  jourVow'e  ealte,  this  rule  I  give  t'ye. 
Let  all  jonr  maids  be  turned  of  fifty. 
The  priest  replied,  I  have  not  aweiT«4, 
But  your  ohaete  preoept  well  obaerved ; 
That  lass  fuE  tamig-fivf  has  told; 
I'to  yat  another  who'a  as  old  i 

So  both  my  maida  haro  ffry  past. 

Many  readers  will  remember  the  liues  by  BuaNS,  com- 
mencing : — 

Tho  day  returns,  my  Viosoni  bums. 
The  blissful  day  we  twa  did  meet; 

Ns'er  summer  mom  was  half  aae  sweet. 

The  turn  of  thought  in  this  stanza  bears  a  striking  resem- 
blance to  the  concluding  Enes  of  Ode  csi.,  of  M.  A.  Fla- 
MiNxus.  The  following  translation  is  close  enough  to  point  the 
resemblance : — - 

When,  borne  on  Zephyr's  balmy  wmg 
AgMQ  retnma  the  purple  spring 
Instant  the  mead  ia  gay  with  flowers 
The  forest  smiles,  and  through  its  bowers 


lyGoogle 


Bids  na 
Yet  fail 

So,  bias 

Mj  lOT 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 

e  the  song-tird'a  tuneful  voioa 

■  far  and  far  more  gay 
ire  winter's  darkest  day, 
d  thcnceforti.,  it  should  restora 


Moore  says : — 

Let  eanqaeiors  boEiet 
Their  fields  of  fame— he  who  in  virtue's  finni 
A  young  warm  spirit  against  beauty's  charms 
Who  feels  het  brightnesB,  yet  defies  her  tUraJl 
Is  the  hest,  bravest  oonc[uaror  of  aU. 

Howell  in  the'Epistol^  Ho-Elianse  saya; — 

Alexander  subdued  the  world— CiBsar  his  enemies— neroulei 
but  he  that  OTeroomea  himself  is  the  true  valiant  eaptain. 

Brutus  aaya,  in  Shakspeare's,  Jm?*ms  Ceesar,  iv., 


Then 


a  tide  i 


b,  taken  at  the  fi< 

Omitted,  all  the  Tojagi 

Is  bound  in  shallows,  i 

In  Baoon' 


>f  Learmng^  B.  2,  ( 


recovered,  it  bdng  extreme  hard  to  play  ttJi  after  gan 


roputai 


King  Henry  says,  h 


S  2  Hen.  VL,  i.  1  :— 

0  Lord,  that  lends  ma  life, 
Lend  ma  a  heart  replete  with  thankfulness. 

G-EORGE  Herbert  says:— 

Thou  that  hast  given  so  much  to  me. 
Give  one  thing  more,  a  grateful  heart. 

ViTRXJVius  says: — There  are  various  kincls  of  timber,  as 
there  are  various  kinds  of  flesh;  one  of  men,  one  of  fishes,  one 
of  beasts,  and  another  of  birds. 

St.  Paul  says:^All  flesh  is  not  the  same  flesh,  &c.,  1  Cor. 


lyClOOglC 


664  PARALLEL   PASSAGES. 

In  Coventry  Patmoke's  delicately  beautiful  poem,  The 
Angtl  in  tkf  Home,  twice  occurs  the  liae,- — 

"An  exquisite  line,"  says  The  Oritie:  "who  could  have  be- 
lieved that  the  ngly  and  often  unjust  word  vafiifi/  could  ever 
be  melted  down  into  so  true  and  pretty  and  flattering  a  peri- 
phr^is?  '     Thackeray,  uses  the  same  idea: — 

A  fair  yoang  creature,  briglit  and   blooming  jeaterdaj,  distributing 
smiles,  levying  homage,  inspiring  desire,  oonsoioua  of  bar  power  to  eharoi, 
and  gay  with  the  natuml  enJojmentB  of  her  conquests— who,  in  his  walk 
through  the  wurld,  has  not  looked  on  many  such  a  one  ?  The  Newcomee. 
E'sn  tha  slight  hare-beU  raised  its  head. 
Elastic  from  its  airy  tread.     SeoTT,  Lady  of  the  Lake. 
For  other  print  her  airy  stops  ne'er  lefl ; 
Har  treading  would  not  bend  a  blade  of  grass. 

Ben  Jonson,  The  Sad  Shepherd. 
Not  BO  when  swift  Camilla  seoura  the  plain. 
Plies  o'er  th*  unbending  corn,  and  akims  along  the  main. 

Pope,  Essay  on  Cnliciem. 
I  hold  it  trae,  whate'ar  befall ; 
I  feel  it,  Tvhen  I  sorrow  moat; 
'Tis  batter  to  haTo  lored  and  lost 
Than  never  to  have  loved  at  alL 

Tenntson,  In  Hfemoriam,  xxoO. 
Magis  gauderes  quod  habuaras  [amioum],  quam  moereros  quod  amiaaras. 
SenscA,  Spiel,  exix. 

The  fiimiliar  epitapHe  line, 

Think  what  a  woman  should  he— she  was  that, 

finds  a  parallel  ia  Shakspeare's  Venus  and  Adonis: — 

Look  what  a  horse  should  have,  ha  did  not  lack. 
Save  a  proud  rider  on  so  proud  a  bao^. 
And  homeless,  near  a  thousand  homes,  I  stood. 
And,  near  a  thousand  tables,  pined  and  wanted  food. 

WoBDawoBTH,  Oiiill  and  Sorron), 
Alas  for  the  rarity 
Of  Christian  oharily 

Oh,  it  was  pitiful. 
Near  a  whole  oity  full 
Home  sha  had  none.    Hoon,  Bridge  of  Sii/hi. 


lyGoogle 


within 


no  aprii 


Even  God's 


niing  estranged. 

Hood,  Bridge  of  Sighs. 
Not  that  man  ma;  not  here 
TaetflOf  the  cheer: 
But  ae  birds  drink,  and  straight  lift  up  their  head; 
So  must  he  sip  aod  think 
Of  better  drink 
He  may  attain  to  after  he  is  dead. 

GeottGE  Heubeht,  Ma«.'>  Medhit. 
Look  at  the  ohioken  by  the  side  of  jonder  pond,  and  let  it  rebuke  your 
ingratitude.  It  drinks,  and  ererj  sip  it  takes  it  lifts  its  head  to  heaven 
and  thanks  the  giver  of  the  rain  for  the  drink  afforded  to  it;  while  thou 
catest  and  drinkest,  and  there  is  no  blessing  pronounced  at  thy  meals  and 
Eo  thankagiviBg  bestowed  upon  thy  Father  for  his  bounty. 

Sphkoeoh,  fycn/bodi/'s  Sermoti, 

ToPLADY  has  bequeathed  to  us  the  heautiful  hjinn: — 

Book  of  ages,  olett  foF  me. 
Let  mn  hide  myself  in  thee ! 
Let  the  water  and  the  blood, 

Be  of  sin  the  double  cure, 

Cleanse  me  from  its  guilt  and  poner. 

But  Daniel  Brevint  in  The  Christian,  Sacrament  and 
Sacrifice,  (1 673)  had  made  this  devout  and  solemn  aspiration : — 

0  Rook  of  Israel,  Rook  of  Salvation,  Rook  struck  and  oleft  for  me,  let 
those  two  streams  of  blood  and  water,  whioh  onoe  gnBiied  out  of  thj  side 
. . .  bring  down  with  them  salvation  and  holiness  into  my  soul. 
■  She  (tie  Eoman  Catkolio  Churoh)  may  still  esist,  in  andiminiehed 
vigor  when  some  traveler  from  New  Zealand  shall,  in  the  midat  of  a  raet 
solitude,  take  his  stand  on  a  broken  areh  of  London  Bridge  to  sfceloh  the 
ruins  of  St.  Paul's.     MiCinnAr,  £a,i&e'g  History  of  the  Popes. 

The  next  Augustan  age  will  dawn  on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic. 
There  will  perhaps  be  a  Thneydides  at  Boston,  a  Xenophon  at  New  York, 
and,  in  time,  a  Virgil  at  Mexico,  and  a  Newton  at  Peru,  At  last  some 
oorioue  traveler  from  Lima  will  visit  England,  ».nd  give  a  desoription  of 
the  ruins  of  St.  Paul's,  like  the  editions  of  Baalbeo  and  Palmyra:— but  am 
I  not  prophosying  oontrary  to  my  oonsammate  prudence,  and  oaatiog 
horoBCOpoa  of    empirts  like  Roussean  ? 


HORi 


56* 


s  Wali 


;o  Mas< 


lyClOOglC 


666  PAEALLEL   PASSAGES. 

Readers  of  Don  Juan  sometimes  descant  with  rapture  on  the 
beauty  of  the  lines  (c.  i.  v.  123), — 

'Tie  Bweet  to  hear  the  watoh-dog'a  honest  bark 

Bay  deep-mouthed  nolcome  as  we  draw  near  home, — 

The  epithet  deep-mmiihed,  as  apphed  to  the  bark,  heiug  es- 
pecially designated  as  "fine,"  And  fine  it  is,  hut  Byrok  found 
it  in  Shakspeare  and  in  Goldsmith: — 

And  oouple  Clowder  witt  the  deep-monthed  briiBh. 

Taming  of  the  Shrew,  Indue.  Sc.  1. 

The  laborers  of  the  day  were  all  retired  b>  rcat;  the  lights  wote  out  iu 
BTerj  oottage;  no  sounds  were  heard  but  of  the  shrilling  ooek,  and  the 
deep-mouthed  watch-dog  at  hollow  diatance. 

Yiear  of  Waitfidd,  ch.  xsii. 

"Your  sermon,"  stud  a  great  critic  to  a  great  preacher,  "was 
very  fine;  hut  had  it  been  only  half  the  length,  it  would  have 
produced  twice  the  imprWion."  "You  are  quit*  i^ht,"  was 
the  reply;  "but  the  feet  is,  I  received  but  sudden  notice  to 
preach,  and  therefore  i  had  not  the  time  to  -make  my  sermon 
short." 

Voltaire  apologized  for  writing  a  long  letter  on  the  ground 
that  he  had  not  time  to  condense.  In  these  oases  the  idea  is 
borrowed  from  elassicaJ  literature.  Pliny  says  in  his  Letters 
( lib.  i.  ep.  XX.  ) ; — 

Ex  his  apparet  illnm  perLDulta  dixJsse;  quum  ederet,  oraisiBae;  . . .  ne 
dubitare  poaaimus,  quiB  por  ploree  dies,  ut  neoesae  crat,  latins  dixerit, 
poEtea  raoisa  ae  purgata  in  nnum  librum,  grandem  quidsm,  unum  tamen, 

(From  this  it  is  erident  that  ho  said  very  muoh ;  but,  when  be  was  pub- 
liahing,  he  omitted  much ;  ...  so  that  we  may  not  doubt  that  what  he 
said  more  diffusely,  [la  he  waa  at  the  time  forced  to  do,  having  afterwards 
retrenched  and  oorreeted,  he  condensed  into  one  single  book.) 

The  condensation  and  revision  rec[uired  more  time  and  thought 
tlian  the  first  production. 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES.  6 

Campbell  says  in  0' (Connor's  Chiid, — 

Eor  man's  neglect  we  loved  it  mora. 

And  agwn,  Lines  on  leaving  a  Scene  m  Bavaria, — 

For  man's  negleot  I  love  thee  more. 
And  Walter  Scott  likewise  imitates  himself  thus : — 


He  irrung  the  Earl's  hand  WEth  anoh  Aractia  camcstnesE,  thut  his  grasp 
forced  tbe  blood  to  start  under  the  nail  —Legend  of  jtfmiirose. 

In  Soh  Soy,  Sir  Walter  njiikeB  Frank  Osbaldiatone  say  in 
his  elegy  on  Edward  the  Black  Pnnee, — 

0  for  the  voice  of  that  wild  horn. 
On  FaaCarabian  eohoes  borne. 

The  djing  hero's  oall, 
Ihat  told  ImperiEil  Cbarlemagoe, 
How  Pajnim  sons  of  enarthj  Spain 
Had  ncought  his  ohampion's  fall. 

And  in  Marmion,  towaJii  the  close  of  Canto  Sixth,  he  sajs: — 

0  for  a  blast  of  that  dread  horn. 
On  Fontmabian  aohoea  home. 

That  to  King  Charles  did  eome. 
When  Rowland  brave,  and  Oliver, 
And  every  paladin  and  peer. 

On  RonoeSTalles  died. 

When  this  inadvertent  or  unconscious  coincidence  in  the 
poem  and  the  novel  was  pointed  out  to  Sir  Walter,  he  replied, 
with  his  natural  expression  of  couiie  gravity,  "Ah!  that  was 
ixiy  carekss  of  me.  I  did  not  think  I  should  Lave  committed 
such  a  blunder." 

"  I  tread  on  the  prida  of  Plato,"  said  Diogonaa,  as  ha  walicd  over  Plato's 
carpet.  "  Yes,  and  with  more  pride,"  said  Plato— Cecil,  Remain,. 
Trampling  on  Plato's  pride,  with  greater  pride, 
Aa  did  the  Cjnie  on  some  like  oooasion,  &a. 

DioganeB  I  hold  to  be  the  most  Tainglorious  man  of  hia  time,  and  more 
ambitious  in  refusing  all  honors  than  Alexander  in  rejecting  none. 

Browse,  JUdigio  Medici. 


lyGoogle 


668  PARALLEL   PASSAGES, 

TLere  is  an  Italian  proverb  used,  in  the  estravaganee  of 
flattery,  to  compliment  a  handsome  lady,  expressive  of  this 
idea; — "When  nature  made  thee,  she  broke  the  mould." 
Byron  usea  it. in  the  closing  lines  of  his  monody  on  the 
death  of  Sheridan  : — 

Sighing  thai  Nature  fonnod  Iiut  ana  such  man. 
And  brolie  the  die, — in  tnonlding  Sheridfto. 

Shakspearb  also  aajs,  in  the  second  stanza  of  Venus  and 
Adonis, — 

Naturs  that  made  thee,  nith  herself  at  strife, 
Saith  Ciat  the  worid  hatli  ending  with  thy  life. 

Du  sublime  tia  tidicule  il  n'y  &  qu'uo  pas. 

{Stem  tie  aufalime  to  the  ridieuloua  there  is  but  a  step.) 

This  saying,  commonly  ascribed  to  Napoleon,  was  borrowed 
by  him  from  ToM  Paine,  whose  works  were  translated  into 
French  in  1791,  and  who  says, — 

The  aabllme  and  the  ridicuIouB  are  often  so  nearly  related  that  It  is  dilG- 
cult  to  class  thorn  separately.  One  step  nbovo  the  sublime  makes  the  ridicu- 
lous, and  one  step  above  the  ridleulous  makes  the  sublime  again. 

Tom  Paine,  in  turn,  adopted  the  idea  from  Hugh  Blair, 
who  says,  in  one  place, — 

It  la  indeed  extremely  difficult  ta  hit  the  precise  point  where  true  wit  ends 
and  buffoonery  begins. 

In  another, — 

It  frequently  happens  tliat  where  the  second  line  is  sublime,  the  third,  in 
Bhioh  be  meant  to  rias  still  higher,  la  pec&ot  bombast. 

Finally,  Blair  borrowed  the  saying  from  Lonoinus,  a  cele- 
brated Greek  critic  and  rhetorical  writer,  who,  in  a  Treatise 
On  the  Sublinte,  uses  the  same  expression,  with  this  slight  mo- 
dificaiion,  that  he  makes  the  transition  a  gradual  one,  while 
Blair,  Paine,  and  Napoleon  make  it  hut  a  step.* 

s  Acurloua  instance  of  bathos  occnra  in  Dr.  Mayor's  acuouut  of  Cook's 
Yoyagea^—"Tbewildro[!ksrnisedthoir  lofty  suramila  till  thay  were  lost  in  the 
clouds,  and  the  viJIeya  lay  oorered  with  oTerlastiug  snow.  Not  a  tree  was  ta 
be  seen,  nor  aTea  a  ahmb  big  onoagh  to  mnSe  a  tooth^iei," 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


B^ii  commnnieadona  oorrnpt  good  mannera,— 1  Oor.  sv.  83. 

™ 

He  that  increajoth  knowledge  inareaaeth  sorrow.— EooL  i.  18. 

Prom  ignoranoe  onr  comfort  flows, 

The  only  wretohed  are  the  wise.— Pbiob. 

Where  ignorance  is  bliss,  'tis  folly  to  be  wise.-Gniv :  Odi  to  Etim. 

A  littlo  looming  is  a  dangeroua  thing; 

Drini  deep,  or  taate  not  the  Pierian  apring. — Pope  ;  On  Oriticisia. 
A  little  pliiloaophj  inoliiieth  man'a  mind  to  atlieism,  but  deptli  in  pi 
Joaophy  bringeth  men's  minds  about  to  religion. — BicON:  On  Atheiaai. 

In  Paradise  Lost,  Book  V.  601,  we  find  the  e: 


Thro 


mi  ia  Book  I.  261,  this  powerful 


;e  put  in  the  motith  of 


Here  we  may  reign  seoura,  and  in  ray  ohoioe 
To  reign  is  worth  ambition,  though  in  Hell; 
Better  to  reign  in  Hell  than  serte  in  HeaTeu. 

In  Stafford's  Niobe,  printed  when  Milton  was  in  his 
cradle,  (1611,)  ia  the  following: — 

True  it  is,  sir,  (aald  the  Devi!,)  thati,  sWrniingRtthenaioeof  Bupremacy, 
Bought  to  deposa  my  Creator  j  which  the  watohtul,  all-seeing  eye  of  Pro- 
videnoe  finding,  dagrnded  me  of  my  angclio  dignitiea — iispoaaeaaed  me  of 
all  pleaaurea ;  and  the  aerapbs  and  oberuba,  the  Throne,  DomiiuUioaa,  ViHuee, 
Powers,  Prineedomi,  Arch  Angels,  and  all  the  Celestial  Hierarchy,  with  a 
ehout  of  applause,  sung  my  departure  out  of  HoaveD.  Hy  alleluia  was 
turned  into  an  ehen.  Hon,  forasmneh  ne  I  was  an  Angel  of  Light,  it  was 
the  will  of  Wisdom  to  confine  me  to  Darinaaa  and  make  mo  Prince  thereof. 
So  that  I,  that  oould  not  obey  in  HeaFcn,  might  command  in  Hell ;  and, 
beliBve  me,!  had  rather  rule  within  m^ dark damainikaalore-iii}i.aMl  OiBiim 
empyream,  and  there  live  in  saijeelion  vrndei-  chak,  a  slaie  of  the  Most  Sigh. 

Cseaar  said  he  would  rather  be  the  first  man  in  a  village 
than  the  second  nan  in  Eome. 


A  fellon 


ahng 


wondroas  kind. — Gibbick. 

1,  fellow-feeling.— BCRTOH ;  A-utt.  of  Met 

cenrrere  disco.— VirSil  :  ^ffii.  I. 


And  leam  the  Injury  of  doing  good.— Goldsmith  ;  Traveller. 
For  all  their  luxury  was  doing  good.— GiiiTk ;  Clarnmnnt. 
Ho  tried  the  luinry  of  doing  good. — Cbaebk  ;  Tales. 


lyGoogle 


670  PAEALtBL  PASSAGES. 

The  oupa  fiat  elieet  l>ut  not  inebriito.— CowtEE 


The  domB  of  thought,  thepslaoeof  the  Boul. — BtrOh;  Ohilde  Harold. 

.  Tea  does  our  fanoy  aid. 
Repress  tliosB  vapors  which  the  head  invade. 
And  keeps  the  palace  of  the  aoul.—'WiLLEE ;  On  Tea. 
Hone  knew  thee  but  to  love  thee.— HiLLEOK!  On,  Brake. 
To  know  her  was  to  love  her.—RoGEBS ;  Jacqueline. 
BuIIen,  like  lamps  In  aepulehres,  jonr  stine 
Enlightens  but  yourselves. — Blaib  :  Gra^e. 
Dim  ligtta  of  lifo,  that  burn  a  length  of  jears. 
Useless,  unseen,  as  lamps  in  sepulchres. 

Pope  :  Elegy  on  an  Unfortunate  Lady, 

The  onrfew  tolls  tie  knell  of  parting  day.— &EiY ;  Elegy. 

And  pilgrim,  newly  on  his  road,  with  love 

Thrills,  if  he  hear  the  vesper  hsll  from  far. 

That  seems  to  mourn  for  the  espiring  day.— Dante,  Cary'e  Trone. 

Even  in  our  ashes  live  their  wonted  fires— 8rAt  :  Elegy. 
Yet  in  our  ashen  cold  is  lire  yreoken.— Chatioeh. 

'Eooor'  Ui  ya  miXu^flSuai  WFtpJuj, 
SOiv  f  Ita^tis  lis  ri  ip  '4'"" 
ii^raoS'  dT^iXesiW  nNETMA  /ilr  wpi;  'AIKEPA 
TioHiiaStls  ran.— EnRiPinES!  SujJpKcM. 
(Let  the  dead  lie  oonoealed  in  the  earth,  whenoB  each  one  came  forth  into 

bod;  to  the  EABTn.) 

The  reaeuiblanee  between  the  above  and  the  beautiful  ex- 
pression ia  the  "Preaoher's"  homily  is  very  reuiaikable: — 

Then  shall  the  dust  letam  to  the  earth  as  It  naa,  and  the  spirit  shall 


(Things  of  a  day!    What  is  any  one  ?    Wliat  is  he  not?    Men  are  the 
dream  of  a  shadow.) 

Man's  life  is  but  a  dream—nay,  less  than  so, 
A  shadow  of  a  dream.— Sib  John  Davies. 


lyGoogle 


The  shades  of  ev 


n  deeper  brown. — Sudtt  ;  Lndy  oftM  Lake. 
The  term  hroion,  applied  to  the  evening  shtwie,  is  deriTcd 
from  the  Italian,  the  expr^sion  "fa,  Fimbruno"  being  com- 
monly used  in  Italy  to  denote  the  approach  of  evening. 


'Tis  the  sunset  of  life  gi 
And  coming  evanta  Bast 


■  shadow    ■ 


Campbbli.;  Lucikl'a  Warning. 
Posts  are  the  liierophants  of  an  unapprebended  inspiration;  ths  mirrors  of 
Ihs  ^igaatlo  sTtadowa  wMok  Jiitarity  casts  upon  the  present. — SsBLLBV;  B^inee 
of  Poeir}). 

A  similar  form  of  expression  occurs  in  Paul's  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews,  s.  1. 

Ths  wolf  a  long  howl  bj  Ooaolaska'E  allore. 

Oaupbell;  Pleaaweso/Sope. 

Stolen  from  a  line  in  an  ohsoure  poem  called  the  Sentimenlai 


Perhaps  in  some  lone,  dreary,  desert  tower 

That  Time  had  spared,  foi-lh  from  the  wiitdoa  looij, 

Hal/  Mdiagrme,  the  tolUa-r;)  fox  ; 

While  from  ahove,  the  owl,  musieian  dire, 

Surewm  hideoua,  hatah,  and  grating  to  the  ear. 

BbfcB!  LoehLeten. 

In  the  Fragments  attribut«d  to  OasiAN  by  Baron  de  Harold, 
Fingal  paints  the  following  beautiful  word-picture  ; — 

I  have  seen  the  walls  of  Balolutha,  hut  they  axe  desolate:  the  flames  had 
resoundad  in  the  hulls,  and  ths  voice  of  the  people  is  heard  no  more ;  the 
stream  of  Cutha  was  removed  from  Its  place  by  ths  fnll  of  the  walls  i  the 
thistle  shoota  there  its  lowly  head;  the  moss  whistled  to  the  winds;  tlie  fox 
hoked  oul  of  the  tmndmm,  and  ths  tatik  graes  af  the  leaUs  mniied  round  his 
head;  desolate  is  the  duelling  of  Moraa :  silence  is  in  the  house  of  her  fathers. 

And  again : — 

The  dreary  night  owl  screams  in  Uie  solitary  retreat  of  his  mouldering  ivy- 
OOrerad  tower. — Lamal,  the  Song  of  Despair. 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES. 


The.  Persian  poet  quoted  by  Gibbon  also  saya, — 

Tha  spider  hath  hung  niUi  tapeelry  the  palaoe  of  the  Ciesars;  tlie  owl 


What'tisjouare,  and  weroHst  Bhortlybe?— Blaie:  CIrmi. 
The  dead !  the  muoh-loved  dead  I 

Who  doth  not  jearn  to  know 
The  eeoret  of  their  dweiliug-place, 

And  to  what  land  ttey  go  ? 
What  heart  tut  aska,  with  eeaaeleea  tone. 
Pot  some  sura  linowlodge  of  its  own?— Mart  B.  Lee. 

Drawing  near  her  death,  she  j 
heaven;  and  hep  soul  saw  a  glim' 
eicknese-brokon  hody. — Fuller. 

The  soul's  dark  cottage,  battered  and  decayed, 

Lots  io  new  light  through  chinks  that  lime  has  made. 

As  they  draw  near  to  their  eternal  home. — Waller  :  J)im 


Among  the  dead, — Hethe:  Memento  Mori, 

The  great  German  poet  was  evidently  familiar  with  Horace  :- 


irracuos  honorea.— Lib.  II.  Caimen  20, 
mold  and  blind,- 


Inntminr  not  that  I  no  longer  see; 

Poor,  old,  and  helpless,  I  the  more  belong, 

Father  Supreme,  to  Theo! 

0  merciful  One  I 
When  men  are  ftrthesi,  then  art  Thou  most  near ; 
When  friends  pass  by — my  weaknesses  to  aiinn — 

Thy  chariot  I  hear. 


lyClOOglC 


PARALLEL  PABSAGBS 

Thy  glorious  faoB 
ag  toward  me,  aodits  hoi;  light 
LQ  upon  mj  lonelj  awelliug-pliwie. 

On  my  beuded  kneo 


The  resemblance  of  these  lines  to  the  fbilowing.p 
Milton's  Second  Defence,  of  the  People  of  England  is  ho 
striking  that  we  are  iaclined  to  regard  them  as  a  paraphrase : — - 

Let  me  then  be  the  moat  feeble  areature  alive,  so  long  as  that  feebleness 
setTCB  to  i)iTi»oriite  (he  energies  of  m;  rational  and  immarCal  spirit,  so  long 
aa  in  that  obsouritj  in  iihioh  I  am  enreloped  the  light  of  Divine  Preeenos 
more  clearly  shines.  Then  in  proportion  a.s  lamweaS,  I  shall  be  inrinoibly 
strong;  and  in  proportion  as  I  am  blind,  I  shall  more  clearly  see.  Oh  that  I 
may  thus  be  perfected  by  feeblane^a,  and  irradiated  by  obscurity!  And  in- 
deed in  my  blindness  I  enjoy  in  no  inoonBiderablo  degree  the  favor  of  the- 
Deity,  nhe  regitrds  me  with  mare  tenderness  and  oompaasiun  in  ptaper.tioni 
as  I  am  abte  to  behold  nothing  bat  himself.  AIm  for  him  nbo  issults  me,. 
id7iu  maligns  and  metiti  pabUn  exeeratin'i  I  For  the  divine  law  not  only- 
shieldB  me  from  injury,  but  almost  renders  me  too  sacred  to  attaok, — not- 
indeed  ao  much  from  the  privation  of  my  sight,  as  ftom  the  overshadowing 
of  those  heavenly  wings  which  seem  to  have  oceaaiuned  this  obacnrity,  andi 
which,  whan  ocoasioned,  he  ia  wont  to  illuminate  with  an  interior  light 
more  precious  and  more  pure. 


In  Keble's  Unes  for  "  St.  John's  Day" 


Sick 

or  healthful, 

ave  or  free. 

Wealthy  or  desp 

Wtia 

ie  that  to  hi 

Ho 

his  love  to  C 

RiST  endure? 

■Who 

n  the  shore  is 

won.  at  last. 

Who 

will  count  th 

biUowa  past? 

The  first  four  hues  resemble  a  stanza  of  Wither,  one  of  t: 
Boundhead  poeta  (1632): — 


lyClOOglC 


)T4  PAEALLEL  PASSAGES. 

Whether  thraUSd  ur  aiiled, 

Whether  poor  or  rioh  thon  bo, 
Whether  praised  or  reviled, 

Hot  a  rush  it  is  to  thee  : 
This  Qor  that  thy  reat  doth  win  thea. 
Bat  the  mind  that  is  within  thoe. 

And  the  last  two  lines  recall  Robert  Burns,  who  had  said  ir 
lia  song  COmmeDcing  Contented  wi  little,  and  cantie  vdmair  :-— 


Two  centuries  before  Burns,  Tasso  said  in  his  Gerusolemme 
Liberata  (iii.  4) : — 

Cosi  di  nivigmti,  ete. 

. . .  B  I'uno  all  'altro  il  mostra'e  intanto  oblia 

La  noja  e  U  mal  della  pnssnta  via, 

Or  as  Fairfax  renders  it: — 

As  when  atrnop  of  jolly  sailors  ron,  etfl. 
And  each  to  other  ahow  the  land  in  haala. 
Forgetting  quite  their  pains  and  perils  past. 

And  before  dismissing  "  the  billows  past,"  it  is  worth  while 
to  quote  the  following  passage  from  Spenser's  Faery  Queene 
(I.  9.  40):— 

What  if  some  little  pain  the  passage  have 

Tliat  makes  frail  flesli  to  fear  the  bitter  wave  ? 

I3  not  short  pain  wdl  borne  that  brings  long  ease. 

Sleep  after  toil,  port  after  stormy  acas, 

Bass  after  war,  death  after  life,  does  greatly  please. 


Lttcrethis  saja  :- 


aoitapeotna  dnlcedine  i 


{No  longer  shall  thy  joyous  home  reoeive  thee,  nor  yet  thy  best  of  wive 
nor  shall  thy  sweet  ohlldrea  tun  to  be  the  first  to  snatob  thy  kisses  an 
tbtill  thy  bieuat  with  silent  delight.) 


lyGoogle 


Compare  Gray's 


For  tham  no  more  tbe  blaiing  heartli  shall  burn,  . 

Or  busy  housewife  plj  ber  evening  oirej 
No  obildren  rna  to  liap  their  sire's  return, 

Or  olLmb  hia  linses  the  envied  kiss  to  share. 

And  Thomson's  Seasons  (Winter}; — 

In  Vftia  for  him  fh'  oflioioua  wife  prepares 
The  fire  fair-blaiing,  and  the  vestment  warm; 
Ib  vain  hie  little  obildran,  peeping  out 
Into  the  Mingled  storm,  demand  their  sira, 
With  fears  of  artleas  innooenee.     Alaa  ! 
Nor  nife,  nor  children,  more  shall  he  behold. 
Nor  friends,  nor  saored  homo. 

The  famous  speech  of  Wolsey  after  his  fall — 

Had  I  but  served  m;  E>od  with  half  the  zeal 

Have  left  me  naked  to  mine  enemies. — 

mnri/  VTIl,  iii.  2. 

finds  a  counterparfc  in  a  satire  of  the  Persian  poet  Feedoubi  o( 
the  Arabian  impostor:— 


It  also  finds  a  parallel  in  a  passage  from  Ocltley'a  History 
of  the  Saracem—Aii.  Hegira  54,  A.  D.  673— 

This  year  Moawiyah  deposed  Samrah,  deputy  over  Baeor.'ih.  Aa  soon  aa 
Samrah  heard  tbia  news,  be  said—"  Cod  ouraa  Moawiyah.  If  I  had  served 


Our  hear 

'">-- 

archest 

eating.— 

Our  lives 

BEi.B 

are  but 

nr  marehe 
D  Fletohb 

lyGoogle 


g76  PAEALLEL  PASSAGES. 


it  the  Pier 


Socrates  said  to  some  Sophists,  who  pretended  to  know  every- 
thing, "As  for  me,  all  I  know  is  that  I  know  nothing." 

Owen  Feltham,  in  his  Rmolves  (^Ownoaity  in  Knmoledge) 


0  cannot  know. 

VoLTAiEE,  in  the  Histoire  d'ttn  bon  Bramin  says : — 

Le  Bramin  me  dit  im  jonr :  3e  TOudrids  n'^tte  jamais  a6.  Je  lui  de- 
mandai  pourqnoi.  II  me  r^pondit :  J'Stodie  depnis  quarante  ans ;  ee  aoot 
quarante  aiin§BB  de  perduee;  j'enseigne  lea  avltres,  et  j'ignore  touL 

These  lines  will  reuiind  the  reader  of  the  opening  soliloquy 
of  Faust  in  G-oethe's  immortal  tragedy.  Bayard  Taylor's  trans- 
lation commences  as  follows: — 

I've  stndied  now  Philoaophy 
And  Jurisprudence,  Medloine,— 
AndevoD,  alas!  Theology,— 
From  end  tu  end,  with  labor  lieen; 
And  here,  poor  fool !  with  all  mj  lorB 
I  stand,  no  wiser  than  before : 
I'm  Mi^Eter— jea,  Dootoi--hight, 
And  straight  or  oroaB-wiae,  wrong  or  right. 
These  ten  years  long,  with  many  woes, 
I've  led  my  scholars  by  the  nose, — 
And  see,  that  nothing  can  be  litiown ! 

In  The  Last  Bays  of  Pompeii  (ch.  v.)  Glauous,  the  Athe- 
nian, is  made  to  say; — 

"  I  am  na  ono  nho  ii  left  alone  at  a  banqact,  the  lights  dead,  and  tlie 
fiowera  faded." 

Of  course,  Bulweii  Lytton  was  familiar  with  0/t  in  the 
StiUy  Night,  which  Moore  had  written  twenty  years  before  : — 

I  foel  like  one  who  treads  alono 

Some  banquet  ball  deserted, 
Wboac  lights  are  fled,  whose  garlands  dead, 

And  all  but  he  departed. 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEI.  PASSAOES. 


677 


Dr-  Jolinson  s^d  that  "  no  one  does  anything  for  the  last  time 
(knowingly)  but  with  regret." 

In  Bishop  Hall's  Holy  Observations  (xsvij)  is  this  paeaage : — 

eibeurd  than  that  Epioureau  resolution,  <  Let  us 


re  made  only  for  tlie  pi 


and  drink,  t. 

lived  that  wo  might  live.    Yet  hai  tAe> 

in  that  meat  which  he  kneui  ihoiitd  be  hU  last,-  vbsieas  the; 

Let  us  fast  and  piaj,  foi  to-morron  we  shall  die." 


/<,««ds. 


8HAKSPEREAN  BEBEMBLANCE8. 

Ah  1  that  deceit  should  steal  suoh  gentle  shapes. 
And,  with  a  Tirtuoua  visor,  hide  deep  vice. 

RlOHARD  III.,  i 


Mekchabt  Off  "Vbbicb,  iiL  2. 
Seems  he  a  dove?  his  feathers  are  but  borroyed; 
Is  he  a  lamb?  hia  skin  is  aurely  lent  him, 
Who  cannot  steal  a  shape  that  means  deceit? 

Henhy  VI.,  P.  H„  iij.  1. 

BOLD  PLAOIABIBM. 

Charles  Eeade,  in  The  Wandering  ffeir  reproduces  Swift's 
Journal  of  a  Modern  Lady  in  a  singular  manner.  Compare 
them.     Keado  says  : — 

ling — for  these  ladies,  being  weU  acqnajnted  with  each  other,  never  played 
on  parole — and  she  kept  bemoaning  her  bad  luck,  '  Betty,  I  knew  how 
'twould  be.  The  parson  nailed  to-day.  This  odiona  ohair,  why  will  you 
stick  me  in  it?  Stand  farther,  girl  I  nlwaya  lose  when  yos  look  on.' 
Mrs.  Betty  tossed  heriieHd,  and  went  behmd  another  ladv  Miss  Oregory 
still  lost,  and  had  to  pawn  her  snuff  bor  to  Lady  Dace      She  consoled 

That  was  a  sign  to  your  partner  here 

'"Nay  Madam,  'twaa  but  a  sign  my  flngrr  itohfi  But  it  you  go  to 
that,  yon  spoka  a  word  began  with  H  Then  ehi,  knew  you  had  the  king 
of  hearts.' 


57S 


lyClOOglC 


'"That  is  like  Miss  tore,;  said  another  matron;  'sho  rubs  her  chMr  nhca 
she  bath  matadore  in  hand.' 

'"Sot  a  thief  to  oateh  a  thief,  Madam,'  was  MiBs's  ingenious  and  polished 
replj. 

"'Hejdaj!'  eriea  one, 'Here  apadillo  got  a  marl;  on  the  back;  a  child 
might  knon  it  in  the  dark.   MlBtregg  Pigot,  I  wish  you'd  be  pleased  to  pare 

"In  short,  ttey  said  fbings  to  each  other  all  night,  the  slightest  of  which, 
a,mong  men,  would  have  filled  Phteuii  Park  next  morning  with  drawn 
Eworda;  but  it  wenl  for  little  here;  they  were  all  cheats,  and  knew  it,  and 

"Itwiis  fouro'olock  before  they  broke  up,  hnddled  on  their  oloaka  and 
lioods,  and  their  chairs  tuok  them  home  with  cold  feet  and  aching  heads." 

Swift  aajs: — 

"'This  morning  when  the  parson  camo, 
I  said  I  should  not  win  a  game. 
This  odiona  chair,  how  came  I  atuok  in't? 
I  think  I  never  had  good  luok  in't. 

Your  fan  a  moment,  if  you  please. 
Stand  further,  girl,  or  gat  you  gone; 
I  always  lose  when  you  look  on.' 


" '  I  saw  you  touoh  your  wadding-ring 
Before  my  lady  called  a  king; 
You  spoke  a  word  began  with  H, 
And  I  know  whom  you  mean  to  teach   , 
Secauae  you  held  Che  king  of  hearts. 
Fie,  Madam,  leare  these  little  arts.' 
'That's  not  so  bad  as  one  that  rubs 
Hev  ohair  to  oaU  the  king  of  oluba. 
And  makes  her  partner  underatand 
A  matador  is  in  her  hand.' 
'And  truly,  madam,  I  know  when, 

Spadillo  hero  has  got  a  mark, 
A  child  may  know  it  in  the  dark. 
1  gueaaed  the  hand ;    It  seldom  fails. 
I  wish  some  folks  >roiild  pare  their  oailE. 


lyGoogle 


PARALLEL   PASSAGES. 

The  oliiutmeQ  arc  not  to  he  found— 

'  Come  let  us  plaj  the  other  round.' 

Now  all  in  tasta  they  huddle  on 

Their  hoods,  their  cloaks  and  get  t^iem  gone." 


HISTORICAL  SIMILITUDES. 

In  Motley's  Bise  of  the  Dutch  EepuhUc  is  narrated  the  fol- 
lowing incident: — 

A  bishop's  indiscretion,  however,  neutralized  tte  apostolic 
blows  of  the  major  (Charles  the  Hammer).  The  pagan  Radbod 
had  already  immersed  one  of  his  royal  legs  in  the  baptismal 
font  when  a  thought  struck  him,  "  Where  are  my  dead  fore- 
fathers at  present?"  he  said,  turning  suddenly  upon  Bishop 
Wolfrau.  "In  hell,  with  all  other  unbelievers,"  was  the  im- 
prudent answer.  "Mighty  well,"  replied  Radbod,  removing  his 
leg ;  "then  will  I  rather  feast  with  my  ancestors  in  the  halls 
of  Wodea  than  dwell  with  your  little  starveling  band  of 
Christians  in  heaven."  Entreaties  and  threats  were  unavailing. 
The  Frisian  declined  positively  a  rite  which  was  to  cause  an 
eternal  separation  from  his  buried  kindred,  and  he  died  as  he 
had  lived,  a  heathen. 

Kingsley,  in  his  ffi/patta,  in  completing  the  history  of  the 
Goth  Wulf,  after  his  settlement  in  Spain,  writes  as  follows : — 

Wulf  died  as  he  had  lived,  a  heathen.  Placidia,  who  loved 
him  well — as  she  loved  all  righteous  and  noble  souls — had  suc- 
ceeded once  in  persuading  him  to  accept  baptism.  Adolf  him- 
self acted  as  one  of  his  sponsors;  and  the  old  warrior  was  in 
the  act  of  stepping  into  the  font,  when  he  turned  suddenly  to 
the. bishop  and  asked,  "Where  were  the  souls  of  his  healJien 
ancestors  ?  "  "  In  hell,"  replied  the  worthy  prelate.  Wulf  drew 
back  from  the  font,  and  threw  his  bear-skin  cloak  around  him. 
...  He  would  prefer,  if  Adolf -had  no  objection,  to  go  to  his 
own  people.    And  so  he  died  unbaptized,  and  went  to  his  own. 


lyClOOglC 


680  TABALLEL  PA&iiAGES 

This  has  suggested  the  query  whether  Mi  Kingsley  uses  his 
privilege  as  a  novelist  to  make  a,  distant  historical  event  sub- 
serve the  purposes,  of  fiction,  or  whether  fhiij  curious  incident 
occurred. 

But  Francis  Parfeman  in  his  Ji,suits  m  North  Ainerica  in 
the  Seventeenth  Century,  notes  a  corresponding  unwillingness 
on  the  part  of  the  Indians  to  sepirate  irom  their  own  kindred 
and  people : — 

The  body  cared  for,  lie  nest  addressed  himself  to  the  soul. 
"  This  life  is  short  and  very  miserable.  It  matters  little  whether 
we  liye  Or  die."  The  patient  remained  silent,  or  grumbled  his 
dissent.  The  Jesuit,  after  enlai^ng  for  a  time  in  broken  Huron 
on  the  brevity  a,nd  notJiingness  of  mortal  weal  or  woe,  passed 
nest  to  the  joys  of  heaven  and  tte  pains  of  hell,  which  he  set 
forth  witb  bis  best  rhetoric.  His  pictures  of  infernal  fires  and 
torturing  devils  were  readily  compreheaded,  if  the  listener  had 
conseiousnesB  enough  to  comprehend  anything;  but  with  respect 
to  the  advantages  of  the  French  paradise  he  was  slow  of  con- 
viction. "  I  wish  to  go  where  my  relations  and  ancestors  have 
gone,"  was  a  common  reply.  "Heaven  is  a  good  place  for 
Fronchmen,"  said  another;  "but  I  wish  to  be  among  Indians, 
for  the  French  will'  give  me  nothing,  to  eat  when  I  get  there." 
Often  the  patient  was  stolidly  silent ;  sometimes  he  was  hope- 
lessly perverse  and  contradictory.  Again  nature  triumphed  over 
grace.  "Which  will  you  choose,"  demanded  the  priest  of  a 
dying  woman,  "heavea  or  hell?"  "Hell,  if  my  children  are 
there,  as  you.  say,"  returned  the  mother.  "Do  they  bunt  in 
heaven,  or  make  war,  or  go  to  feasts?"  asked  an  anxiotis  iuj 
qiiirer.  "Oh,  no!"  replied  the  fiither.  "Then,"  returned  the 
querist,  "I  will  not  go.  It  is  not  good  to  be  laay."  But  above 
all  other  obstacles  was  the  dread  of  starvation  in  the  re^ons 
of  the  blest.  Nor  when  the  dying  Indian  had  been  induced  at 
last  to  express  a  desire  for  Paradise  was  it  an  easy  matter  to 
bring  bira  to  a  due  contrition  for  his  sins;  for  he  would  deny 
with  indignation  that  be  bad  ever  committed  any,     Wlien  at 


lyClOOglC 


PARALLEL  PASSAGES.  681 

length,  as  Hometimea  happened,  all  these  difficulties  gave  way, 
and  the  patient  had  heen  brought  to  what  seemed  to  his  in- 
structor a  fitting  frame  for  baptism,  tlie  priest,  with  contentment 
at  his  heart,  brought  water  in  a  cup  or  io  tho  hollow  of  his  hand, 
touched  his  forehead  with  the  mystic  drop,  and  snatched  him 
from  an  eternity  of  woe.  But  tlie  convert,  even  after  his  baptism, 
did  not  always  manifest  a  satis&otory  spiritual  condition.  "  Why 
did  you  baptize  that  Iroquois  1 "  asked  one  of  the  dying  neo- 
phytes, speaking  of  the  prisoner  reoently  tortured ;  "he  will 
get  to  heaven  before  us,  and,  when  he  sees  us  coming,  he  will 
drive  us  out." 


HISTORY  REPBATINS  ITSELF. 

Herodotus  tolls  us  (Book  III.  118)  that  after  the  cou^irator 
Intaphernes  and  his  femily  had  beon  imprisoned  and  held  tor 
esecution  by  order  of  Darius,  the  wife  of  the  condemned  man 
constantly  presented  herself  before  the  royal  palace  exhibiting 
every  demonstration  of  grief.  As  she  regularly  continued  this 
conduct,  her  frequeBt  appearance  at  length  excited  the  com- 
passion of  Darius,  who  thus  addressed  her  by  a  messenger: 
"  Woman,  King  Darius  offers  you  tho  liberty  of  any  individual  of 
your  family  whom  you  may  moat  desire  to  preserve."  After  some 
deliberation  witli  herself  she  made  this  reply:  "If  the  king 
will  grant  me  the  life  of  any  one  of  my  family,  I  choose  my 
brother  in  preference  to  the  rest,"  Her  determination  greatly 
astonished  the  king;  he  scut  to  her  therefore  a  second  message 
(o  this  effect :  "  The  king  desires  to  know  why  you  have  thought 
proper  to  pass  over  your  children  and  your  husband,  and  to 
preserve  your  brother,  who  is  certainly  a  more  remote  connection 
thau  your  children,  and  cannot  bo  so  dear  to  you  as  your  hus- 
band." She  answered:  "Oking!  if  it  please  the  deity,  I  may- 
have  another  husband;  and  if  I  be  deprived  of  these  I  may  have 
other  children;  but  as  my  parents  are  both  dead,  it  is  certain 
that  T  can  have  no  other  brother."  The  answer  appeared  to 
Darius  very  judicious;  indeed  he  was  so  well  pleased  with  it 


lyClOOglC 


that  he  not  only  gave  the  woman  the  life  of  her  brother,  but 
also  pardoned  her  oldest  son. 

A  passage  in  the  Anfiffone  of  Sophocles  embodies  the  same 
singular  Bentimont.  Creon  forbade  tbe  rites  of  sepulture  to 
Poljaices,  after  the  dunl  with  his  brother  Eteoclea,  in  which 
they  were  mutually  alain,  and  decreed  immediate  death  to  any 
one  who  should  dare  to  bury  him.  Antigone,  tbeir  sister,  was 
detected  in  the  act  of  burial,  and  was  condemned  to  be  buried 
alive  for  her  pious  care.  In  ber  dangerous  situation  she  goes 
on  to  say : — 

And  thus,  mj  Poljnioes,  for  my  oare 
Of  then,  I  am  rewarded,  and  the  good 

Hor,  tad  I  been  a  mother,  for  my  aliildren 
Would  I  have  dared  to  Tiolato  the  laws— 
Another  huebaud  and  another  child 
Might  sooth  afBiotion;  bnt,  my  parents  dead, 
A  brother's  loss  conld  never  be  repaired. 

A  story  of  analogous  character  told  by  an  oriental  to  Mias 
Rogers,  is  related  in  her  book  Domestio  Life,  in,  Pakstine,  as 
follows:^ 

When  Ibrahim  Pasha,  the  son  of  Mahomet  Ali,  ruled  in 
Palestine,  he  sent  men  into  all  the  towns  and  villages  to  gather 
together  a  laige  army.  Then  a  certain  woman  of  Serfurich  sought 
Ibrahim  Pasha  at  Akka,  and  came  into  his  presence  bowing 
herself  before  him,  and  said:  "0  my  lord,  look  with  pity  on 
thy  servant,  and  hear  my  prayer.  A  little  while  ago  there  were 
three  me'n  in  my  house,  my  husband,  my  brother,  and  my  eldest 
son.  Bat  now  behold,  they  have  been  carried  away  to  serve  in 
your  army,  and  I  am  left  with  my  little  dnes  without  a  protector. 
I  pray  you  grant  liberty  to  one  of  these  men,  that  he  niayremain 
athome."  And  Ibrahim  had  pity  on  her  and  said:  "Owoman, 
do  you  askfor  your  husband,  for  your  son,  or  for  your  brother?" 
And  she  said:  "Oh,  my  lord,  give  me  my  brother."  And  he 
answered:  "How  is  this,  0  woman,  do  you  prefer  a  brother 
to  a  husband  or  a  son?"    The  woman,  who  was  renowned  for 


lyGoogle 


PAI 

ALLEL   PASSAGES. 

er  wit  Mid  readinosa 
mpromptu:— 

of  speech,  replied  ir 

If  it  bo  God's  will  that  my  husband  perish  in  yonr 
I  am  still  a  woman,  and  Sod  may  lead  ma  to  anothe 
If  on  the  battle-field  mj  first-bom  son  should  faJl, 
I  have  Etill  my  youoger  ones,  who  will  in  Sod's  tim 
But  oh  !  my  lord,  if  mj  only  brother  should  be  Blaiii 
I  am  without  remedy— for  my  father  is  dead  and  mj 
And  where  Bhould  I  look  for  another  brother?" 

And  Ibraliim  was  muoli  pleased  with  the  words  of  the  woman, 
atid  said;  "  0,  woman,  happy  ahove  many  is  thy  hrother;  he 
shall  be  free  for  thy  word's  sake,  and  thy  husband  and  thy  son 
■shall  he  free  also."  Then  the  woman  coidd  not  speak  for  joy 
and  gladness.  And  Ibrahim  said :  "  Go  in  peace ;  let  it  not  he 
known  that  I  have  spoken  with  you  this  day."  Then  she  rose, 
and  went  her  way  to  her  Tillage,  tmsting  in  the  promise  of  the 
Pasha,  After  three  days,  her  hushand,  and  son,  and  hrother 
returned  unto  her,  saying;  "We  are  free  from  service  by  order 
of  the  Pasha,  hut  this  matter  ia  a  mystery  to  na."  And  all 
the  neighbors  marvelled  greatly.  But  the  woman  held  her 
peace,  and  this  story  did  not  hecome  known  until  Ibrahim's 
departure  from  Akka,  after  tho  overthrow  of  the  Kgyptian 
govennent  ia  Syria,  in  1840. 

What  the  hushand  and  the  son  thought  of  wifely  and 
motherly  affection  when  the  mystery  of  their  deliverance  was 
cleared  up,  is  not  reported. 

THE  TWO   STATESMEN. 

Hume  says  (Ststory  of  Ewjland)  : — 

A  little  before  he  (Woisey)  espked  (2Sth  November,  1530) 
he  addressed  himself  la  the  following  words  to  Sir  William 
Kingston,  Constable  of  the  Tower,  who  had  him  in  custfldyi 
"I  pray  you  have  me  heartily  recommended  nnto  his  royal 
majesty  (Henry  VIII.),  and  beseech  him  on  my  behalf  to  call 
to  his  remembrance  all  matters  that  have  passed  between  us 


lyClOOglC 


684  PARALLEL   PASSAGES. 

especially  with  regard  to  his  bus  u^ia  with  the  queen,  and  then 
will  he  know  in  hia  conbcieni*  whether  I  have  offended  him. 
He  IS  ^  pnnoe  of  a  most  royal  carnage,  and  hath  a  princely 
heart  dnd  rather  than  he  will  miss  or  want  any  part  of  his 
will  he  will  endanger  the  one  h  ilf  of  his  kingdom,  I  do  assure 
\  ™  that  I  hayo  often  kneeled  befoie  him,  sometimes  three 
h  uis  together  to  persuide  him  from,  his  will  and  appetite,  but 
ctmJd  not  piuvail.  h,id  I  but  served  God  as  diligently  as  I  have 
served  the  king,  he  would  not  have  given, me  over  in  my  grey 
hairs.  But  this  is  the  just  reward  I  mnst  receive  for  my  in- 
dulgent pains  and  study,  not  regarding  my  service  to  God  but 
only  to  my  prince." 

Holinshead  says  in  his  fiunoue  old  Chronicles: — 

This  year   fl640)    'in  th     mo  th     i  A  g    t    Sir  J 

H      M       iF    6^(  Emght  C    t    U     t    th    K    g(,Jun     V 

fStll)whhgdlm         thk  njtg 

t  w    d  w  tl      th         t  I    f  £(7    im  y    wh   h         m     dm    t 


h    w  11      ly    h  y  d  th 

k 

h 

If 

gh       w 

Illy 

f  1          d 

1: 
f 

h 

Id 

^  J 

to  th     k           p 
AL    I  hg 

!ly 

1         g  th     p  1 

1 

tl    t  h    k    g  h   I  h  m 

h 

hf 

h  t  t          d 

f         f  h        If    t  all 

N 

th  1 

1     tl        fte    1 

w 

b      ght  f    tl  to  J  dg 

t 

an 

CO  VI  t 

1       th    1  Jb 

h    i 

El    b    gh     i        t 

P 

t 

f  teas 

laid     g       t 

hm 

wl    hh    w   Jd 

f 

\  t  thit      tw  th  t     d 

h 

was  b  h    d  d  m  th    m 

th 

f 

^pnh 

t 

ft 

th  1 1     1    1  U       11 

f 

d 

tth    pi 

f 

th  t 

hid                    yj  t 
h      1    th  w     y  t  w    t 

ff 

d  1 

th    k 
td     I 

J    ty 
hmbyth    r 

h  t 

1 

fl 

]     t       b  ca       h    h  d 

ft 

ff 

d  d  th 

1        fG  d  to 

1 

b     p  m       th     1  y  to 

Ita 

e 

te    CO 

t            wtl 

hm 

l\h      f       h      dm       hd 

IP 

rs        th  t  m      d  bv  his 

ample,  they  should  rather 

folio 

w  the    Divine  pleasure 

tnan 

unjustUe  seek  the  king' 

favour. 

since  it  L 

better  to  pleas 

God 

than  man. 

lyGoogle 


HISTORICAL  SIMILITUDES. 


THE  JUDGMENT  OF  SOLOMON. 


Several  parallels  to  Solomon's  judgment,  I,  Kings  iii.  16-28, 
are  recorded.  One  oecurs  in  GeUa  RomanonMn.  Three  youths, 
to  decide  a  question,  are  deaired  by  their  referee,  the  King  of 
Jerusalem,  to  shoot  at  their  father's  dead  hody.  One  only 
refuges ;  and  to  him,  as  the  rightful  heir,  the  legacy  is  awarded, 

In  the  Haileian  MS.,  4523,  iv&  are  told  of  a  woman  of  Pegu, 
a  province  of  Bnrmah,  whose  child  was  carried  away  by  an 
all^ator.  Upon  its  restoration  another  woman  claimed  the  child. 
The  judge  ordered  them  to  puU  for  it;  the  infent  cried,  and  one 
instantly  quit  her  hold,  to  whom  the  child  was  awarded. 

The  same  story,  substantially,  is  tflld  in  the  Pali  commentary 
on  the  diseoursea  of  Buddha,  translated  by  Kev.  K.  S.  Hardy, 
as  follows: — 

A  woman  who  yias  going  to  bathe,  left  her  child  to  play  on  the  lianks 
of  a  tank,  when  a  fomnle  who  was  passing  that  way  carried  it  off.  Tbey 
both  appeared  before  Buddha,  and  each  declared  the  ohild  wfts  her  own, 
The  command  tras  therefore  given  that  eaoh  olaimitQt  should  seize  the 
infant  bj  a  leg  and  an  arm,  and  pull  with  all  her  might  in  opposite  directions. 
Ho  sooner  had  they  oommenoed  than  the  ohild  began  to  soraam;  whan  the 
real  mother,  from  pity,  left  off  pulling,  and  resigned  her  claim  to  the  other. 
The  judge  therefore  decided  tbat,  as  she  only  bad  shown  true  affaotion, 
the  child  must  be  hers. 

Stietoniua  tell  us  that  the  Emperor  Claudius,  when  a  woman 
refused  to  acknowledge  her  son,  ordered  them  to  be  married. 
The  mother  confessed  her  child  at  once. 

PRECEDENOY. 

The  Emperor  Charles  V.  was  appealed  to,  by  two  women  of 
fiiahion  at  Brussels,  to  settle  the  point  of  precedency  between 
them,  the  dispute  respecting  which  had  been  carried  to  the  greal> 
est  height.  Charles,  after  afiecting  fo  consider  what  each  lady 
had  to  say,  decided  that  the  greater  simpleton  of  the  two  should 
have  the  pas;  in  consequence  of  which  judgment  the  ladies 
became  equally  ready  to  concede  the  privilege  each  had  claimed. 
Napoleon,  on  the  occurrence  of  a  similar  difficulty  at  a  Court 
ball  supper,  based  his  decision  on  the  question  of  a^e.  .  Mr.  Hey, 
of  Leeds,  at  a  dinner-party  of  gentlemen,  made  merit  tbe  test. 


lyClOOglC 


686  HISTORICAL 

THE   LEGEND  OF  BETH  GELEET. 

In  F.  Johnson's  tranalation  from  the  Sanscrit,  occurs  the 
following  passage : — 

In  Oiigeinlifeda  Brahman  named  MddhaTa.  Hi3wife,.of  the 
Brahmanical  tribe,  who  had  recently  broaght  forth,  went  to  per- 
form her  ablutions,  leaving  him  to  take  charge  of  her  infent  off- 
spring. Pr^ently  a  person  from  the  Raja  came  for  the  Brahman 
to  perform  for  him  a  Pfirrana  s'riiddha  (a  religious  rite  to  all  his 
ancestops.)  When  the  Brahman  saw  him,  being  impelled  by 
his  natural  poTerty,  he  thought  within  himsdfi  If  I  go  not 
directly,  then  some  one  else  will  take  the  a'r&ddha.    It  is  said ; — 

"In  respect  of  a  thing  whioh  ought  to  be  tftken,  or  to  bo  given,  or  of 
a  work  whioh  ought  to  be  dona,  and  not  being  donequiokly,  tima  drinks  np 

But  there  is  no  one  here  to  take  care  of  the  child:  what  cam 
I  do  then?  Well:  I  will  go,  havii^  set  to  guard  the  infant 
this  weasel,  cherished  a  long  time,  and  in  no  respect  distin- 
guished from  a  child  of  my  own.  Thia  he  did  and  went. 
Shortly  aiierwards,  a  black  serpent,  whilst  silently  ooming  near 
the  child,  was  killed  there,  and  rent  into  pieces  by  the  wease! ; 
who,  seeing  the  Brahman  coming  home,  ran  towards  him  with 
haste,  his  mouth  and  paws  all  smeared  with  bJood,  and  rolled  him- 
self at  his  feet.  The  Brahman  seeing  him  in  that  state,  without 
reflecting,  said,  "  My  son  has  been  eaten  by  this  weasel,"  and 
killed  him :  hut  as  soon  as  he  drew  near  and  looked,  behold  the 
child  was  comfortably  sleeping,  and  the  serpent  lay  killed! 
Thereupon  the  Brahman  was  overwhelmed  with  grief. 

This  fable  was  introduced  to  give  point  to  the  moral : — The 
fool  who,  without  knowing  the  true  state  of  the  ease,  becomes 
subject  to  anger,  will  find  cause  for  r^ret.  Its  similarity  to  the 
well-known  Welsh  legend  is  so  remarkable  that  we  append 
Spencer's  touching  ballad. 

The  BpeMman  heard  the  bugle  aound. 

And  obCGiilj  smiled  the  moro ; 
And  many  a  brach,  aud  many  a  hound 

Attend  Llewelljn'a  horn: 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL   SIMILITUDES. 
Aad  Btill  ha  blew  a,  louder  blast, 

"Come,  GelcrC  why  art  thon  tlie  last 

Llewellyn's  horn  to  tear  ? 
"Oh!  where  does  faithful  flelert  roam? 

The  flower  of  all  his  race  I 
So  true,  so  braro ;  a  lamb  at  home, 

A  lion  in  the  chiLSe  1" 
In  sooth  he  was  a  peerless  hound. 

The  gift  of  rojftl  John; 
But  now  no  Gelort  could  be  foand 

And  all  the  ohoee  rode  on. 
And  now,  as  orer  toclis  and  dells     . 

The  gallant  ohLdingB  rise, 
All  Snowdon'e  craggy  ohaoa  yells 

With  many  mingled  ortea. 
That  day  Llewellyn  little  loved 

The  chase  of  hart  or  hare ; 
And  ^mall  and  scant  the  booty  proved. 

For  Gelert  was  not  there. 
Unpleaaed,  Llewellyn  homeward  hied. 

When,  near  the  portal-eeat. 
His  Irnant  Gelert  he  espied. 

Sounding  his  lord  to  greet. 
Bnt  when  be  gain'd  the  oastle  door. 

Aghast  the  chieftain  stood; 
The  hound  was  emear'd  with  goats  of  gor^ 

His  lips  and  fangs  ran  blood ! 
Llewellyn  gaaed  with  wild  aurprise. 

Unused  6ucb  looks  to  meet : 
His  favorlM  checked  his  joyful  gniae. 

And  croaoh'd  and  liek'd  his  feet. 
Onward  in  haste  Llewellyn  passed— 

And  on  went  Gokrt  too— 

Fresh  blood -goula  shook'd  his  view  1 
O'erturn'd  his  infant's  bed,  he  fonnd 

The  blood-stain'd  covert  rent; 
And  all  around,  the  walls  and  ground 

With  recent  blood  besprent. 
He  called  his  cbild— no  voice  replied; 

Ho  soaroh'd— with  terror  wild; 


lyClOOglC 


HiSTORiCAI.   SIMILITUDES.  - 

Blood  1  blood  1  he  found  oa  overy  side, 

But  nowhere  found  the  ohild  I 
"Hell-hound  I  by  thee  my  child's  deToured  !" 

The  trunfio  father  oried; 
And  to  the  hilt  tho  Tengeful  sword 

Be  plunged  In  Gelert's  eidel 
His  Buppliunt,  as  to  earth  he  fell. 

Ho  pity  oould  impurt; 
But  still  hia  Gelert's  dying  yell 

Paes'd  heavy  o'er  hie  heart. 
Aronsed  hy  Gelert's  dying  yell. 

Some  slumberer  waien'd  nigh: 
What  words  the  purcnt's  joy  can  tell. 

To  heur  hie  infant  ory  t 
Coneeal'd  beneath  a  mangled  heap, 

All  glowing  from  hia  rosy  sleep. 
His  ohornb-boy  he  kiss'd, 

Bnt,  the  same  couah  beneath. 
Lay  a  great  wolf,  all  torn  and  dead 

TremeadouB  still  in  death  I 
Ot !  what  was  then  Llewellyn's  woe ; 

For  now  the  truth  was  clear : 
The  galhint  hound  the  wolf  had  alain. 

To  save  Llewellyn's  heir. 
Vain,  vain  was  all  Llewellyn's  woe; 

"Beatof  thy  kind  adieu! 
The  frantic  deed  which  laid  thee  low. 

This  heart  shall  ever  rue!" 
And  now  a  gallant  tomb  they  raise, 

With  eOBtly  sculpture  deck'd; 
And  marbles  storied  with  his  prwea. 

Poor  Gelert's  bones  protect. 
Here  never  eonld  the  spearman  puss. 

Or  forester  unmoredi 
Here  oft  the  tear-besprinllsd  grass, 

Llewellyn's  sorrow  proTed. 
And  here  ha  hung  his  horn  and  spear  j 

And,  oft  as  evening  fell. 
In  fancy's  piercing  sounds  would  hear 

Poor  Qalett's  dying  yell  I 


lyClOOglC 


ART   STOEIES. 

Art  has  parallel  stories  of  a  tragic  nature.     In.  tie 

Ctiapel  proud 
"Where  Roslm's  ohiefa  unooffinad  lie, 
BoBh  baron,  for  a  sable  shroud, 
Sheathed  in  his  iron  panoply, 

stands  an  exquisite  example  of  Gothic  tracery-work,  known  aj 
the  Apprentice's'  Pillar,  neighbored  by  corbels  carved  with  grim 
grotesque  human  faces.     How  it  came  by  its  name  may  b 


nmngo 


uding  sae 
to  Rome 


s  the  old  dame  who  acted  as  cicerone  at  the  bcj 
the  present  century  used  to  t«il  it. 

"  There  ye  see  it,  gentlemen,  with  the  lace-1 
beautifully  roond  aboot  it.  The  master  had  g 
to  get  a  plan  for  it,  and  while  he  was  awa,  his  'prentice  made  a 
plan  himael,  and  finished  it.  And  when  the  maiater  cam  back 
and  fiind  the  pillar  finished,  he  was  sae  enraged  that  he  took  a 
hammer  and  killed  the  'prentice.  There  you  see  the  'prentice's 
fiiae — up  there  in  ae  comer  wi'  a  red  gaah  in  the  brow,  and  his 
mother  gieetin'  for  him  in  the  comer  opposite.  And  there,  in 
another  corner,  is  the  maister,  as  he  lookit  just  before  he  was 
hanj^ed;  it's  him  wi'  a  kind  o'  ruff  roond  his  fiice." 

In  the  same  century  that  the  Prince  of  Orkney  founded  the, 
chapel  at  Roslin,  the  good  people  of  Stendal  employed  an  archi- 
tect of  repute  to  build  them  one  new  gate,  and  entrusted  the- 
erection  ~of  a  second  to  his  principal  pupil.  In  this  ease,  too,, 
the  aspiring  youth  proved  the  better  craftsman,  and  paid  the 
same  penalty;  the  spot  whereon  he  fell  beneath  his  master's 
hammer  being  marked  to  this  day  by  a  stone  commemorating  the 
event ;  and  the  story  goes  that  yet,  upon  moonlight  nights,  the 
ghost  of  the  murdered  youth  may  be  seen  contemplating  the. 
work  that  brought  him  to  an  nntimely  end,  while  a  weird  skeleton 
beats  with  a  hammer  at  the  stone  he  wrought  inl«  beauty. 

Another  atone,  at  Grossmoringen,  closeby  Stendal,  tells  where 
an  assistant  bell-caster  was  stabbed  by  his  master  because  he  suc- 
ceeded in  casting  a  bell,  after  the  latter  had  foiled  in  the  attempt. 
It  is  a  tradition  of  Eouen  that  the  two  rossrwindows  of  its 


lyClOOglC 


690  PARALLEL   PASSAGES. 

cathedral  were  the  work  of  the  master-architect  and  his  pupil, 
who  strove  which  of  the  two  should  produce  the  finer  window. 
Again  the  man  beat  the  master,  and  again  the  master  murdered 
the  man  in  revenge  for  his  triumph.  The  transept  window  of 
Lincoln  Cathedral  was  the  product  of  a  similar  coateat,  hut  in 
this  instance  the  defeated  artist  killed  himself  instead  of  his 
successful  rivd. 


Scott's  ballad  of  "Wild  Darrell"  waa  founded  upon  a  story, 
first  told  by  Aubrey,  but  for  which  the  poet  was  indebted  to 
Lord  Webb  Seymour.  An  old  midwife  sitting  over  her  fire  one 
dark  NoYcmber  night  was  roused  by  a  loud  knocking  at  the 
door.  Upon  opening  it  she  saw  a  horseman,  who  told  her  her 
services  were  required  by  a  lady  of  rank,  and  would  be  paid  for 
handsomely ;  but  as  there  were  femily  reasons  why  the  affair 
should  be  kept  secret,  she  must  submit  to  be  conducted  to  her 
patient  blindfolded.  She  agreed,  allowed  her  eyes  to  be  bandaged, 
and  took  her  place  on.  the  pillion.  After  a  journey  of  many 
miles,  her  conductor  stopped,  led  her  into  a  house,  and  removed 
the  bandage.  The  midwife  found  herself  in  a  handsome  bed- 
chamber, and  in  presence  of  a  lady  and  a  ferocious-looking  man. 
'  A  boy  was  bom.  Snatching  it  from  the  woman's  arms,  the  man 
threw  the  babe  on  the  blazing  fire ;,  it  rolled  upon  the  hearth. 
Spite  of  the  entreaties  of  the  horrifiod  midwife,  and  the  piteous 
prayers  of  the  poor  mother,  the  ruffian  thrust  the  child  under 
the  grate,  and  raked  the  hot  coals  over  it.  The  innocent  ac- 
complice was  then  ordered  to  return  whence  she  came,  as  she 
came;  the  man  who  had  brought  her  seeing  her  home  again, 
and  paying  her  for  her  pains. 

The  woman  lost  no  time  in  letting  a  magistrate  know  what 
she  had  seen  that  November  night.  .She  had  been  sharp  enough 
to  cut  a  piece  out  of  the  bedcurtain,  and  sew  it  in  again,  and  to 
■count  the  steps  of  the  long  slairc^e  she  had  ascended  and 
■descended.  By  these  means  the  scene  of  the  infanticide  was 
.identiSed,  and  the  murderer  Darrell,  Lord  of  Littleeote  House, 


lyGoogle 


PAKALLEL    PASSAGES.  691 

Berkshire  was  tried  at  Salisbury,  He  escaped  the  gallows  by 
bribing  the  judge,  only  tfl  break  his  neck  in  the  hunting-field  a 
few  months  afterwards;  at  a  place  still  known  as  Darrell's  Stile. 
Aubrey  places  Littlecote  in  Wiltshire,  makes  the  unhappy  mother 
the  waiting-maid  of  Darrell's  wife,  and  concludes  his  narratioa 
thus:  "This  hoirid  action  did  much  nm  in  her  (the  midwife's) 
mind,  and  -she  had  a  desire  to  discover  it,  but  knew  not  where 
'twas.  She  considered  with  herself  the  time  that  she  was  riding, 
and  how  many  miles  she  might  have  ridden  at  that  rate  in  that 
time,  and  that  it  must  be  some  great  person's  house,  for  the  room 
was  twelve  feet  high.  She  weut  to  a  justice  of  the  peace,  and 
search  was  made— the  very  ciiamber  fouod.  The  knight  was 
brought  to  his  trial;  and,  to  be  short,  this  judge  had  this  noble 
house,  park,  and  manor,  aud  (I  think)  more,  for  a  bribe  to  save 
his  life.  Sir  John  Popham  gave  sentence  according  to  law,  but 
being  a  great  person  and  a  favorite,  he  procured  &mMe prose^i." 
In  Sir  Water's  ballad  the  midwife  becomes  a  Mar  of  orders 
gray,  compelled  to  shrive  a  dying  woman. 


The  Biirift  is  done,  the  ftiar 

Blindfoided  as  he  oama— 

Nest  morniog,  all  in  Littleei 


It  was  hardly  fair  to  make  Darrell  worse  than  he  wsra,  by  laying 
a  second  murder  at  his  door,  merely  to  give  a  local  habitation 
and  a  name  to  a  Scotch  laJe  of  murder  that  might  have  been  an 
adaptation  of  the  Berkshire  tragedy. 

Somewhere  about  the  beginning  of  the  last  century,  an 
Edinburgh  clergyman  was  called  out  of  his  bed  at  midnight  on 
the  pretext  that  he  was  wanted  to  pray  with  a  person  at  the 
point  of  death.  The  good  man  obeyed  the  summons  withgut 
hesitation,  but  wished  he  had  not  done  so,  when,  upon  his 
sedan-chair  reaching  an  outrof-the-way  part  of  the  city,  its 
bearers  insisted  upon  .his  being  blindfolded,  and  out  his  protes- 


lyClOOglC 


692  PARALLEL  PASSAOBS. 

tationa  short  by  threatening  to  blow  out  bis  brains  if  be  refused 
to  do  their  bidding.  Like  the  sensible  man  he  was,  he  sub- 
mitted without  further  parley,  and  the  sedan  moved  on  agaiu. 
By  and  by,  he  felt  be  was  being  carried  upnStairs:  the  chair 
stopped,  the  clergyman  was  banded  out,  bis  eyes  uncovered, 
and  bis  attention  directed  to  a  young  and  beautiful  lady  lying 
in  bed  with  an  infiint  by  her  side.  Not  seeing  any  signs  of 
dying  about  her,  be  ventured  to  say  so,  but  was  commanded  to 
lose  no  time  in  offering  up  such  prayers  as  were  fitting  for  a 
person  at  the  last  extremity.  Having  done  his  office,  he  was 
put  into  the  chair  and  takeu  down-staira,  a  piptol-ahot  startling 
bis  ears  on  the  way.  He  soon  found  himself  safe  at  home,  a 
purse  of  gold  in  his  Land,  and  his  ears  still  ringing  with  the 
warning  he  had  received,  that  if  he  said  one  word  about  the 
transaction,  his  life  would  pay  for  the  indiscretion.  At  last  he 
fell  off  to  sleep,  to  be  awakened  by  a  servant  with  the  news, 
that  a  certain  great  hoaae  in  the  Canongatc  had  bi-en  burned 
down,  and  the  daughter  of  its  owner  perished  in  the  flames. 
The  I'let^yman  had  been  long  dead,  when  a  fire  brukc  out  oa 
the  very  same  spot,  and  there,  amid  the  flames,  was  seen  a 
beaatifiii  woman,  in  an  estraordinarily  rich  night-dress  of  the 
fashion  of  half  a  century  before.  While  the  awe-struck  spec- 
tators gazed  in  wonder,  the  apparition  cried,  "Anes  burned, 
twice  burned ;  the  third  time  I'll  scare  you  all ! "  The  midwife 
of  the  Littleoote  legend  and  the  divine  of  the  Edinbui^h  one 
were  more  fortunate  than  the  Irish  doctor  living  at  Rome  inl743 ; 
this  gentleman,  according  to  Lady  Hamilton,  being  taken  blind- 
folded to  a  house  and  compelled  to  open  the  veins  of  a  young 
lady  who  had  loved  not  wisely,  but  too  well. 

EUEIAl  ALIVE. 

In  the  year  1400,  Ginevra  de  Amiera,  a  Florentine  beauty, 
married,  under  parental  pressure,  a  man  who  had  failed  to  win 
her  heart,  that  she  had  given  to  Antonio  Rondinelli.  Soon  after- 
wards the  plague  broke  out  in  Florence ;  Ginevra  fell  ill,  appar- 


lyClOOglC 


PARALLEL   PASSAGES.  693 

ently  succumbed  to  the  malady,  a'ad  being  pronounced  dead,  was 
the  same  day  consigned  to  the  fe,iiiily  tomb.  Some  one,  however, 
had  blundered  in.  the  matter,  for  in  the  middle  of  the  night, 
the  entombed  brido  woke  out  of  her  trance,  aad  badly  as  her 
living  relatives  had  behaved,  found  her  dead  ones  still  leas  to 
her  liking,  and  lost  no  time  in  quitting  the  silent  company,  upon 
whose  quietude  she  had  unwittingly  intruded.  Speeding 
through  the  sleep-wrapped  streets  as  swiftly  as  her  olioging 
ceremente  allowed,  Ginevra  Bought  the  home  from  which  she  had 
so  lately  been  borne.  Roused  from  his  slumbers  by  a  knockir^ 
at  the  door,  the  disconsolate  widower  of  a  day  cautiously  opened 
an  upper  window,  and  seeing  a  shrouded  figure  waiting  below,  in 
whose  upturned  face  he  recognized  the  lineaments  of  the  dear 
departed,  he  cried,  "  Go  in  peace,  blessed  spirit,"  and  shut  the 
window  precipitately.  With  sinking  heart  and  slackened  step, 
the  repulsed  wife  made  her  way  to  her  fethei's  door,  to  receive 
the  like  benison  from  her  dismayed  parent.  Then  she  crawled 
on  to  an  uncle's,  where  the  door  wM  indeed  opened,  but  only 
to  be  slammed  in  her  fece  by  the  fright-ened  man,  who,  in  his 
hurry,  forgot  even  to  bless  h»  ghostly  caller.  The  cool  night 
air,  penetrating  the  undress  of  the  hapless  wanderer,  made  her 
tremble  and  shiver,  as  she  thought  she  had  waked  to  life  only 
to  die  again  in.  the  cruel  streets.  "  Ah  "  she  sighed,  "  Aatouio 
would  not  have  proved  so  unkind."  This  thought  naturally 
t  was  her  duty  to  test  his  love  and  courage  r  it  would 
ragh  t€  die  if  he  proved  like  the  rest.  The  way 
was  long,  but  hope  renerved  her  limbs,  and  soon  G-inevra  was 
knocking  timidly  at  Rondinelli's  door.  He  opened  it  himseF, 
and  although  startled  by  the  ghastly  vision,  calmly  inquired  what 
the  spirit  wanted  with  him.  Throwing  her  shroud  away  from 
her  face,  Ginevra  exclaimed,  "I  am  no  spirit,  Antonio;  I  am 
that  Ginevra  you  once  ioved,  who  via%  buried  yestei-day — buried 
alive ! "  and  fell  senseless  into  the  welcoming  arms  of  her  aston- 
ished lover,  whose  cries  for  help  soon  brought  down  his  sympa- 
thizing family  to  hear  the  wondrous  story,  and  bear  its  heroine 


lyClOOglC 


g94  PAEALLEL   PASSAGES. 

to  bed,  to  be  tenderly  tended -until  she  had  recovered  from  the 
shock,  and  was  as  beautiful  as  ever  agdn.  Then  came  the  diffi- 
culty. Was  Ginevra  to  return  to  the  man  who  had  buried  her, 
and  sliut  his  doors  against  her,  or  ^ve  herself  to  the  man  who 
had  saved  her  from  a  second  dealt  ?  Wilb  such  powerful  special 
pleaders  as  love  and  gratitude  on  his  side,  of  course  Bondinelli 
won  the  day,  and  a  private  mamage  made  the  lovers  amends 
for  previous  disappointment.  They,  however,  had  no  intention 
of  keeping  in  hiding,  but  the  very  first  Sunday  after  they  be- 
came man  and  wife,  appeared  in  public  together  at  the  cathedral, 
to.  the  confusion  and  wonder  of  Uicevra's  friends.  An  explana- 
tion ensued,  which  satisfied  everybody  except  the  lady's  first  hus- 
band, who  insisted  that  nothing  but  her  dying  in  genuine  earnest 
could  dissolve  the  original  matrimonial  bond.  The  case  was  re- 
ferred to  the  bishop,  who,  having  no  precedent  to  eiirb  his  deci- 
sion, rc^e  superior  to  technicalities,  and  declared  that  the  first  hus- 
band had  forfeited  all  i^ht  to  Ginevra,  and  must  pay  over  to  Ron- 
dinelli  the  dowry  he  had  received  with  her :  a  decree  at  which 
we  may  be  sure  all  true  lovers  in  feir  Florence  heartily  rejoiced. 
This  Italian  romance  of  real  life  has  its  counterpart  in  a- 
French  cause  ciUbre,  but  the  Gallic  version  unfortunately  lacks 
names  and  dates ;  it  differs,  too,  considerably  in  matters  of  detail ; 
instead  of  tie  Jady  being  a  supposed  victim  of  the  plague,  which 
in  the  older  story  secured  her  hasty  interment,  she  was  supposed 
to  have  died  of  grief  at  being  wedded  against  her  inehnation; 
instead  of  coming  to  life  of  her  own  accord,  and  seeking  her  lover 
as  a  last  resource,  the  French  heroine  was  taken  out  of  her  grave 
by  her  lover,  who  suspected  she  was  not  really  dead,  and  resusci- 
tated by  his  exertions,  to  flee  with  him  to  England.  After  livmg 
happily  together  there  for  ten  years,  the  strangely  united  couple 
ventured  to  visit  Paris,  where  the  first  husband  accidentally 
meeting  the  lady,  was  struck  by  her  resemblance  to  his  dead 
wife,  found  out  her  abode,  and  finally  claimed  her  for  his  own. 
When  the  case  came  for  trial,  the  second  husband  did  not  dispute 
the  faet  of  identity,  but  pleaded  that  hia  rival  had  renounced 


lyClOOglC 


PAHALLEL   PASSAGES.  695 

all  claim  to  the  lady  by  ordering  her  to  be  buried,  without  first 
making  sure  she  was  dead,  and  that  she  would  have  beea  dead 
and  rotting  in  her  grave  if  he  had  not  rescued  her.  The  court 
was  saved  the  trouble  of  deciding  the  knotty  point,  for,  seeing 
that  it  was  likely  to  pronounce  aga,iQSt  them,  the  fond  pair 
quietly  slipped  out  of  France,  and  found  refuge  in  "a  foreign 
clime,  where  their  love  continued  sacred  and  entire,  till  death 
conveyed  them  to  those  happy  regions  where  love  knows  no  end, 
and  is  confined  within  no  limits." 

RING   STORIES. 

Of  dead-alive  ladies  brought  to  consciousness  by  sacrilegious 
robbers,  covetous  of  the  rings  upon  their  cold  fingers,  no  less 
than  seven  stories,  difi'ermg  but  slightly  from  each  other,  have 
been  preserved ;  in  one,  the  scene  is  laid  in  Halifax ;  in  another, 
in  Gloucestershire;  in  a  third,  in  Somersetshire  ;  in  the  fourth, 
in  Drogheda;  the  remaining  three  being  appropriated  by  as 
many  towns  in  Germany. 

King-stories  have  a  knack  of  running  in  one  groove.  Hero- 
dotus tells  us  how  Amasis  advised  Polyoratcs,  as  a  uharm  against 
misfortune,  to  throw  away  some  gem  he  especially  valued;  bow, 
taking  the  advice,  Polyorates  went  seaward  in  a  boat,  and 
cast  his  favorite  ring  into  the  ocean ;  and  how,  a  few  days  after- 
ward, a  fisherman  caught  a  large  fish  so  extraordinarily  fine, 
that  be  thought  it  fit  only  for  the  roj^  table,  and  accordingly 
presented  it  to  the  fortunate  monarch,  who  ordered  it  to  be 
dressed  for  supper ;  and  lo !  when  the  fish  was  opened,  the  sur- 
prised cook's  astonished  eye  beheld  his  master's  cast-away  ring^ 
much  to  that  master's  delight,  hut  his  adviser's  dismay;  for 
when  Amasia  heard  of  the  wonderful  event,  ho  immediately  dis- 
patohed  a  herald  to  break  his  contract  of  friendship  with  Poly- 
crates,  feeling  confident  the  latter  ^would  come  to  an  ill  end, 
"as  he  prospered  in  everything,  even  finding  what  he  had  thrown 
away."  The  city  of  Glasgow  owes  the  ring-holding  salmon 
iiguring  in  its  armorial  bearings  to  a  l^end  concerning  its  patron 


lyGoogle 


696  PARALLEL   PASSAGES. 

saiDt,  ICentJgem,  thus  told  in  the  Ada  Sanctormri, :  A  queen 
w!io  formed  an  improper  attachment  to  a  handsome  soldier,  put 
upon  his  finger  a  precious  ring  wliich  her  own  lord  had  con- 
ferred upon  her.  The  king,  made  aware  of  the  fact,  but  dis- 
sembling  his  anger,  took  an  opportunity,  in.  hunting,  while  the 
soldier  Jay  asleep,  beside  the  Clyde,  to  snatch  off  the  ring,  and 
throw  it  into  the  river.  Then  returning  home  along  with  the 
soldier,  he  demanded  of  the  queen  the  ring  he  had  given  her. 
She  sent  secretly  to  the  soldier  for  the  ring,  which  could  not  be 
restored.  In  great  terror,  she  then  despatched  amessenger  to  ask 
the  assistance  of  the  holy  Kentigern.  He,  who  knew  of  the 
afiajr  before  being  informed  of  it,  went  to  the  river  Clyde,  and 
having  caught  a  salmon,  took  from  the  stomach  the  miasing 
ring,  which  he  sent  to  the  queen.  She  joyfully  went  with  it  to 
the  king,  who,  thinking  he  had  wronged  her,  swore  he  would  bo 
revenged  upon  her  accusers ;  but  she,  affecting  a  foi^iving  tem- 
per, besought  him  to  pardon  them  as  she  had  done.  At  the 
same  time,  she  confessed  her  error  to  Kentigern,  and  solemnly 
vowed  to  be  more  careful  of  her  conduct  in  future."  In 
1559,  a  merchant  and  alderman  of  Newcastle,  named  Anderaon, 
handling  his  ring  a8  he. leaned  over  the  bridge,  dropped  it  into 
the  Tyne.  Some  time  after,  his  servant  bought  a  salmon  in  the 
market,  in  whose  stomach  the  lost  ring  was  found :  its  value 
,  enhanced  by  the  strange  recovery,  the  ring  became  an  heirloom 
and  was  ia  the  possession  of  one  of  the  Alderman's  decendants 
some  forty  yesjs  ago.  A  similar  accident,  ending  in  asimilar  way, 
is  recorded  to  have  happened  to  one  of  the  dukes  of  Lon-aine. 

DEATH   PROPHECIES. 

Monk  Gerbert,  who  wore  the  tiara  as  Sylvester  II,,  a  man 
of  whom  it  was  said  that — thanks  to  the  devil's  assistance — he 
never  left  anything  unexecuted  which  he  ever  conceived,  anti- 
cipating Roger  Bacon,  made  a  brazen  head  capable  of  answering 
like  an  oraclo.     From  this  creature  of  his  own,  Gerbert  learned 


lyGoogle 


697 


he  would  not  die  until  lie  had  performed  mass  in  Jerusalem. 
He  thereupon  determined  to  live  forever  by  taking  good  care 
never  to  go  near  the  holy  city.  Like  ali  dealers  witii  the  Evil 
One,  he  was  destined  to  be  cheated.  Performing  mass  one  day 
in  Rome,  Sylvester  was  seized  with  sudden  illness,  and  up  n 
inquiring  the  name  of  the  church  in  which  he  had  iE  ted 
heard,  to  his  dismay,  that  it  was  popularly  called  J  u  1  m 
then  lie  knew  hia  end  was  at  hand;  and  it  was  not  lo  g  h  f 
it  came.  Nearly  five  hundred  years  after  this  event  liapp  n  d 
Master  Robert  Fabian,  who  must  not  be  suspected  of  nt  ng 
history,  seeing,  as  sheriff  and  alderman,  he  was  wont  to  p  11  y 
public  liars,  wrote  of  Heniy  IV.,  "After  the  feast  f  <_1  t 
mas,  while  be  was  making  his  prayers  at  St.  Edward  lir  n 
ho  became  so  sick,  that  such  as  were  about  him  feared  tl  t  h 
would  have  died  right  there;  wherefore  they,  for  hi  ft 

bare  him  into  the  abbot's  place,  and  lodged  him  in  a  I  an  b 
and  there,  upon  a  pallet,  laid  him  before  the  fire,  wb  b  1  y 
in  great  agony  a  certain  time.  At  length,  when  he  was  m 
to  bims«lf,  not  knowing  where  he  was,  he  freyned  [  L  d]  t 
such  as  were  there  about  him  what-  place  that  was ;  th  wb  h 
shewed  to  him  that  it  belonged  unto  the  Abbot  of  Westmin- 
ster; and  for  be  felt  himself  so  sick,  he  commanded  to  ask  if 
that  djamber  had  auy  special  name.  Whereunto  it  was  answer- 
ed, that  it  was  named  Jerusalem.  Then  said  the  king,  'Laud 
be  to  the  Father  of  Heaven,  for  now  I  know  I  shall  die  in  this 
chamber,  according  to  the  prophecy  of  me  beforesaid^  that  I 
should  die  in  Jerusalem;'  and  so  after,  he  made  himself  ready, 
and  died  shortly  after,  .upon  tbe  Day  of  St,  Cuthbert,  on  the 
20th  day  of  March,  1413." 


Three  of  the  most  fiimous  battles  recorded  in  English  history 
were  marked  by  a  strange  contrast  between  tbe  behavior  of  the 
mies  on  the  eve  of  the  fight.     At   Hastings,  the 
it  the  night  in  singing,  feasting,  and  drinking;  while 


lyClOOglC 


the  Nomiaus  were  confessing  themselves  and  reeeivmg  the  sao- 
rameiit.  At  Agincourt,  "  the  poor  condemaed  English  "  said 
their  prayers,  and  sat  patiently  hy  their  watch-fires,  to  "inly 
ruminate  the  laOrrow's  danger ;"  while  the  oyer-ooiifident  French 
revelled  the  night  through,  and  played  for  the  prisoners  they 
were  never  to  tdce.  "  On  the  eve  of  Bannockhnin,"  says  Fasten, 
who  fought  there  on  the  beaten  side,  "ye  might  have  seen  the 
Englishmen  bathing  themselves  iu  wine,  and  casting  their  gor- 
gets; there  was  crying,  shouting,  wassaiBng,  and  drinking,  with 
other  rioting  far  above  ineasnie.  On  the  other  side  we  might 
have  seen  the  Scots,  quiet,  still,  and  close,  fasting  the  eve  of 
St.  John  the  Baptist,  laboring  in  love  of  the  liberties  of  their 
country."  Our  readers  need  not  be  told  that  in  each  case  the. 
orderly,  prayerful  army  proved  victorious^  and  so  made  the 
treble  parallel  perfect. 

BIHHOr    HATTO. 

The  legend  of  Hatto,  bishop  of  Mayence,  has  been  preserved 
in  stanzas  which  are  well  remembered  by  school  children.  To 
avoid  the  importunity  of  the  Btarving  during  a  period  of  famine, 
the  wicked  prolate  collected  them  into  a  bam, 

"  And  while  for  moroj  on  Christ  they  oall, 
Hb  Bat  £ra  to  the  bum,  and  hurnt  them  nil." 

Thereupon  he  was  attacked  by  an  army  of  mice,  and  escaped 
to  his  tower  (the  Mausesehloss)  on  a  rock  in  the  Rhine,  But 
they  quickly  followed  him  and  poured  in  by  thousands,  "  in  at 
the  windows  and  in  at  the  door,"  until  he  was  overpowered  and 


"They  gnawed  tho  fleah  from  every  JLmh, 
Ifor  they  were  sent  to  do  judgnient  on  him." 

The  same  atory  is  told  of  the  Swiss  baron,  von  Giittingen, 
who  was  pursued  and  devoured  by  mice  in  his  castle  in  Lake 
Constance,  It  is  also  told,  with  a  variation,  of  the  Foliah  King 
Popiel.  When  the  Poles  murmured  at  his  bad  government, 
and  sought  redress,  he  summoned  the  chief  remonstrants  to  his 
palace,  poisoned  them,  and  had  their  bodies  thrown  into  the 
lake  Gopolo.  He  sought  refuge  from  the  mice  within  a  circle 
of  fire,  but  was  overrun  and  eaten  by  them. 


lyClOOglC 


PROTOrvrES. 


^rotoffipcs. 


It  appears  from  I  Samuel  xxiv.  13,  that  the  oldest  proverb 
on  record,  is,  "  Wickedness  proceedeth  from  the  wicked;"  since 
Darid,  in  his  time,  declared  it  to  be  "a  proverb  of  the  ancients;" 
consequently  older  than  any  proverb  of  his  son  Sol9nion. 

SHAKSPEAKE   SAID   IT   FIBST. 

In  one  of  Clough's  letters  he  tells  an  arausing  story  of  a 
Calvinistic  old  lady,  who,  on  being  asked  about  the  Universal- 
iste,  observed, — "  Yes,  they  expect  that  everybody  wiU  he  saved, 
but  we  look  for  better  things."  How  like  this  is  to  the 
admirable  confusion  of  Sir  Andrew  Aguecheek,  who,  in  his 
letter  of  challenge,  (Twelfth  Mi/ht,  iii.  4,)  concludes  thus; — 
"  Fare  thee  well,  and  God  have  mercy  upon  one  of  our  souls ! 
He  may  have  meroy  upon  mine;  but  my  hope  is  better!" 

Cinderella's  slipper. 
A  story  somewhat  similar  to  that  of  Cinderella  has  been 
handed  down  from  the  Greek.  It  is  reported  of  Ehodopis, — 
a  Thracian  slave,  who  was  purchased  and  manumitted  by  Char- 
asus  of  Mytileae,  and  afterward  settled  in  Egypt,^hat  one 
day,  while  she  was  in  the  bath,  an  eagle,  having  flown  down, 
snatched  one  of  her  slippera  from  an  attendant,  and  carried  it 
to  Memphis.  Psammitichus,  the  king,  at  the  time,  was.  sitting 
on  his  tribunal,  and  while  engaged  in  dispensing  justice,  the 
eagle,  settling  above  his  head,  dropped  the  sandal  into  his 
bosom.  Astonished  by  the  singularity  of  the  event,  and  struck 
by  the  diminutive  size  and  elegant  shape  of  the  sandal,  the  king 
ordered  search  to  be  made  for  the  owner  throughout  thS  land 
of  Egypt.  Having  found  her  at  Naucratis,  she  > 
to  the  king,  who  made  her  his  queen. 


lyClOOglC 


700 

OUETAIN   J 

Jerrold,  in  hia  preface  to  the  later  editions  of  Mrs.  Caudle's 
Ourtam  Lectures,  makes  this  curious  statement; — 

It  has  iiappttned  to  tlio  nritcr  tbut  two,  or  three,  or  ten,  or  twenty 
Kontlewomen  hare  asked  him...  What  cguld  hraie  made  gou  think  of 
Mra.  Caudh?  How  co»ld  tueh  a  thing  ha^e  entered  any  wail's  ininrf  ^ 
^hete  ars  subjects  that  eoem  like  min-dfope  to  fall  upon  a  mna'e  he»d,  the 
headitselfhavingtiathjiigto  do  with  the  matter. .  .And  this  nas,  no  doubt, 
the  aeoideatal  oauae  of  the  literary  aowing  and  espansi^on— unfolding  like 
a  night-flower — of  Mrs.  Cajidlb  ..  .The  writer,  still  dreaming  and  musing, 
and  BtUl  following  no  diatinot  line  of  thought,  there  struck  upon  him,  like 
notes  of  sudden  household  muaio,  these  Borda — Curtain  Lectures. 

Nevertholeaa,  this  phrase  may  be  traced  baelt  more  than  two 
centuries,  while  the  idea  will  be  found  iu  the  Sisth  Satire  of 
Juvenal,  who  says: — 

Semper  habet  lites,  alternaque  jurgia  lectns, 

In  quo  nupta  jaoet:  minimum  doFiaitur  in  illo,  &c. 

Stapylton's  trauslatjon  of  this  passage  was  published  in 
1647:— 

Debates,  altomnte  bmwlings,  arer  were 

I'  ib'  miLrriage  bed :  there  is  no  sleeping  there. 

In  the  margin  of  the  translation  are  the  words  Curtain- 
Lectures. 

Dryden  in  his  translation  of  the  same  passage  (published 
1695)  introduces  the  phrase  into  the  text: — 

Besides,  what  endless  brawls  by  wires  are  bred ; 
The  Curtain -Leotare  maltea  a  mournfol  bed. 

And  Addison,  .in  the  Tathr,  describing  a  luckless  wight 
undct^oing  the  penalty  of  a  nocturnal  oration,  says: — 

whole  behavior,  that  he  was  then  lying  under  the  disoipline  of  a  mrlaiii 


THE   LIGHT   BRIGADE. 

The  metre,  movement,  and  idea  of  Tennyson's  Charge  of  the 
Sis  Hundred  at  Baiaklava,  are  evidently  derived  from  Michael 
Drayton's  Batth  of  Agincourt,  published  in  1627.  The  first, 
middle  and  l^t  stanzas  of  Drayton's  poem  run  thus: — 


lyClOOglC 


PROTOTYPES. 


Jaire  stood  tlie  Wind  for  Franco 


Bnt  putting  to  the  Majm 
At  Kawc,  the  Mouth  of  i 
With  all  Lis  Martiall  Tra, 


Thej  now  to  fight  are  gone. 


That  with  the  Cryea  tliej  make 
The  very  earlh  did  shake, 
Trumpet  to  Trumpet  spake. 

Thunder  to  Thunder. 

16. 

Upon  Saint  Crispin's  day 

Pought  was  this  Noble  B'raj, 

Which  Fame  did  not  delay 

To  England  to  earryi 
O  when  shall  English  Men 
With  suoh  Aots  fill  a  Pen, 


THE   FAUST   LEGENDS- 

-About  the  middle  of  the  tliirteentli  century  began  to  spread 
the  notion  of  formal  written  agrocmenta  between  the  Fiend  and 
men  who  were  to  be  his  esclusiTe  property  after  a  certain  time, 
during  which  he  was  to  help  them  to  all  earthly  good.  This, 
curions  to  say,  camo  with  Christianity  from  the  East.  The  first 
instance  was  that  of  Theophilus,  vicedominus  of  the  Bishop  of 
Adana,  a  city  of  Cilicia,  in  the  asth  century,  whose  fiill  and 
conversion  form  the  original  of  all  the  Fauat  legends.  The  story 
of  Theophilus  may  be  found  in  various  works,  among  them 
Ennemoser's  Vniverscd  Sistort/  of  Magic,  which  n 
by  William  Howitt. 


lyClOOglC 


PEOTOTYPES, 


Ben  Jonson,  in  the  Alckeinistf  makes  Sir  Epicure  Mammon, 
in  his  expectation  of  acquiring  the  secret  of  the  philosopher's 
stone,  enumerate  to  Surly  a  list  of  anticipated  luxuries.  Among 
these  indulgences  is  this  prophetic  forecast  of  modem  inflated 
India-rubber  beds 


THE   CAT  IN   THE   ABAOE. 

Lady  Macbeth  thus  taunts  her  husband: — 

Wouldat  thou  have  that 
Whioh  thou  estaem'et  the  oruament  of  life, 
And  live  a  eoward  in  thine  onn  eateem; 


The  adage  is  thus  given  in  Heywood's  Proverbs,  1566 : — 

"  The  oat  would  eate  fisho,  and  would  not  wet  her  feeto." 

The  proverb  ia  found  among  all  nations.     The  Latin  form  of 
mediffival  times  was  as  follows: — 

"  Catua  amat  piseeSj  eod  non  tult  tingere  plantas." 

TheOermanssay:— 

"Die  Kntze  hUtt'  die  Pisohe  gem;    aber  sie  will   die  FUaae  nit  naaa 

And  the  Scotch  have  it: — 

"The  eat  would  fain  fiah  eat, 
But  9ha  has  no  will  to  wet  iier  feet." 


A  gentleman  in  Charleston  conceived  a  very  decided  liking 
to  a  young  lady  from  Ireland,  and  was  en  the  eve  of  popping 
the  question,  when  he  was  told  by  a  friend  that  his  dulcinea 
had  a  cork  leg.  It  is  difficult  to  imagine  the  distress  of  the 
young  Carolinian.     He  went  to  her  fethcr'a  house,  knocked 


lyClOOglC 


PEOTOTYPES, 


703 


impatiently  at  the  door,  and  when  admitted  to  the  fiiir  one's 
piesenct  aatod  hei  if  what  he  had  heard  respecting  her  were 
tr  le  1  es  inde  d  my  dear  &ir,  it  is  trae  enough,  but  you 
have  heard  o  ij  half  of  my  misfortune  I  hdVe  got  two  cork 
Ipds  having  bad  the  lU  luck  to  be  born  in  Cork."  This  is 
the  inu  dent  on  which  is  founded  Hart's  afterpiece  called 
Per/  ct  o 

THE  pope's   bull  AGAINST  THE  COMET. 

When  President  Lincoln -was  first  asked  tfl  issue  a  proclama^ 
tion  abolishing  slavery  in  the  Southern  States,  he  replied  that 
such  an  act,  would  be  as  absurd  aa  the  Pope's  bull  against  the 
comet. 

The  comet  referred  to  is  Halley's.  Concerning  its  first 
authenticated  appearance,  Admiral  Smyth,  iu  his  C^ck  of 
Oekatiai  Objects,  says:— 

'  In  1496  it  oame  with  a.  tail  SO"  in  length,  and  of  a  vivid  brightnesej 
nhich  splendid  train  affrighted  all  Europe,  and  apread  oonstemBtion  in 
every  quarter.  To  ita  malign  indneneea  were  impnted  the  rapid  auDoesses 
of  Mahomet  II.,  whioli  then-  ttreatened  all  Chdiatendom.  The  general 
alarm  waa  greatly  aggravated  by  the  conduct  of  Pope  Calixtua  III.,  who, 
thongh  otherwise  a  man  of  abilities,  naa  but  apoor  aatronomor;  for  that 
pontiff  daily  ordered  the  church  bclla  to  be  rang  at  noontide,  eittra  Ave 
Muritts  to  be  repeated,  and  a  apecial  proteat  and  eieommunioation  waa 
oomposed,  asoroiaing  equally  the  devil,  the  Turks,  and  the  comet. 


SWAPPING  HORSES. 

The  celebrated  maxim  of  President  Lincoln,  "not  to  swap 
horses  while  fording  the  stream,"  was  anticipated  centuries  ago 
by  Cyrus  the  .Eldfer,  King  of  Persia,  in  directing  his  troops  to 
take  up  their  several  stations,  when  he  said,  "  When  the  contest 
is  about  to  begin,  there  is  no  longer  time  for  any  chariot  to 
unyoke  the  horses  for  a  change," 


Judge  Haliburton,  in  that  amusing  book  The  Clockmdker, 
puts  the  following  in  the  mouth  of  Sam  Slick: — 


lyClOOglC 


704  PROTOTrPES. 

That  remark  seemed  to  grig  bim  a  little;  hcfeltonsasj  like,  aod  walked 
twice  acruas  the  room,  Gft;  futboms  deep  in  thonght;  at  laat  he  said, 
"Whieh  way  are  jon  from, Mr.  Slick,  tbisbltoh?"  "  Wbj," Buja  1,  "I've 
bean  away  up  Soutli  a  apeOulating  in  nutmegs."  "I  bope,"  eajB  the  Pro- 
fessor, "they  were  a  good-artiola, — the  real  right  down  gennine  thing?" 
"Ru,  mistaliB,"  says  I,  "no  mistake,  Profesaor;  they  were  all  prime,  first 
cbop;  bnt  why  did  you  ax  that  'era  qnestionf"  "Why,"  says  he,  "that 
eternal  sooundrcl,  that  Captain  John  Allspioe  of  Nahant,  he  used  to  trade 
to  Charlcstun,  and  he  carried  a  cargo  once  there  of 'fifty  barrels  of  nut- 
megs. Well,  be  put  half  a  bnshel  of  good  ones  into  eaoh  end  of  the 
barrel,  and  the  rest  be  filled  up  with  wooden  ones,  so  like  the  real  thing, 
no  soul  ooiild  tell  the  diffareuoe  until  he  bit  one  with  hia  teeth,  aod  that  he 
neTer  thought  of  doing  until  he  was  first  bil  hi«,«el/.  Well,  it's  been  a 
standing  joko  with  them  Southerners  agin  us  aver  sinoe." 

TRADE  UNIONS. 

Trade  imions  are  not  of  sueh  recent  origin  as  many  people 
suppose.  "I  am  credibly  informed,"  wrot«  Maudeville,  the 
philosophic  author  of  the  Fables  of  the  Bees,  one  hundred  and 
fifty  years  ago,  in  his  Essay  on  Ckaritt/  and  Ghariln/  Schools, 
"that  a  parcel  of  footmen  are  arrived  to  that  height  of  inso- 
lence as  to  have  entered  into  a  society  together,  and  made  laws 
by  which  they  oblige  themselves  not  to  serve  for  less  than  sueh 
1  sum,  nor  carry  burdens,  or  any  bundle  or  parcel  above  a 
eertim  weight,  not  exceeding  two  or  three  pounds,  witi  other 
res^ldtions  directly  opposite  to  the  interest  of  those  they  serve, 
and  altogether  deatracfive  to  the  use  they  were  designed  for. 
If  any  of  them  he  turned  away  for  strictly  adhering  to  the  orders 
of  ttis  honorable  corporation,  he  is  taken  care  of  till  another 
service  is  provided  for  him ;  but  there  is  no  money  wanting  at 
any  time  to  commence  and  maintain  a  lawsuit  against  any 
that  shall  pretend  to  strike  or  offer  any  other  injury  to  hia 
gentleman  footman,  contrary  to  the  statutes  of  their  society. 
If  this  be  true,  as  I  believe  it  is,  and  they  are  suffered  to  go 
on  in  consulting  and  providing  for  their  own  ease  and  con- 
veniency  any  further,  we  may  expect  quickly  to  see  the  French 
comedy  'Le  Maitre  le  Valet'  acted  in  good  earn^t  in  most 
families ;  while,  if  not  redressed  in  a  little  time,  and  these  foot- 


lyClOOglC 


PROTOTYPES.  70a 


}  their  company  to  the  nuraher  it  is  poesible  they 
may,  ss  well  as  assemble  when  they  please  with  impunity,  it 
will  be  in  their  power  to  make  a  tragedy  of  it  whenever  they 
have  a  mind  to." 


CONSEQUENTIAL   DAMAGES. 

On  page  454  of  Senator  Wilson's  Eue  and  Fall  of  the 
Slave  Power  m  America,  he  says  (of  a  speech  of  the  late  Mr. 
Gtiddings) :  "  He  referred  to  the  Treaty  of  Indian  Springs,  by 
whieh,  after  paying  tte  slaveholders  of  Geot^ia  the  sum  of 
$109,000  for  slaves  who  had  escaped  to  Florida,  it  added  the 
sum  of  $141,000  as  compensation  demanded  for  the  offepring 
whieh  the  females  would  have  borne  to  their  masters  had  they 
remained  in  bondage;  and  Congress  actually  paid  that  sum  for 
children  who  were  never  horn,  hut  -who  might  have  been  if 
their  parents  had  remained  faithful  slaves." 

There  is  no  clearer  ease  of  the  payment  of  " 
damages"  in  English  or  American  history  than  this. 


THE   ORIGINAL  SIITLOCK. 

Gregory  Lcti,  in  his  biography  of  Sestus  V.,  tells,  us  that, 
Paul  Seeehi,  a  Venetian  merchant,  having  learned  by  private 
advices  that  Admiral  Francis  Blake  had  conquered  St.  Domingo, 
communicated  the  news  to  a  Jewish  merchant  named  Sampson- 
Ceneda.  The  latter  was  so  confident  that  the  information  was 
false,  that,  after  repeated  protestations,  he  said,  "I  bet  a  pound 
of  my  flesh  that  the  report  is  untrue."  "And  I  lay  a  thousand 
scudi  against  it,"  rejoined  the  Christian,  who  caused  a  bond  to 
be  drawn  t«  the  effect  that  in  case  the  report  should  prove 
untrue,  then  the  Christian  merchant,  Signer  Paul  Secchi,  is 
bound  to  pay  the  Jewish  merchant  the  sum  of  1000  aoudi,  and 
on  the  other  hand,  if  the  truth  of  the  news  be  confirmed,  the 
Christian  merchant.  Signer  Paul  Secchi,  is  justified  and  em- 
0  cut  with  bis  own  hand,  with  a  well-sharpened  knife,. 


lyClOOglC 


706  PROTOTYPES, 

a  pound  of  the  Jew's  fmr  flesh,  of  that,  part  of  the  body  it 
might  please  him.  "When  the  newa  proved  true,  the  Christian 
insisted  on  hia  bond,  hut  the  governor,  having  got  wind  of  the 
affair,  reported  it  to  the  Pope,  who  condemned  both  Jew  and 
Christian  to  the  gaJlejs,  irom  which  they  could  only  he  ran- 
somed by  paying  a  fine  of  double  the  amount  of  the  wager. 

ShakspeacG  roverses  the  order,  and  makes  the  Jew  usurer 
demand  the  pound  of  flesh  from  the  Christian  merchant. 

EXCOMMUNICATION. 

The  excommunication  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  exactly 
described  by  anticipation  in  Csesar's  account  of  their  predeces- 
sors, the  Heathen  Druids,  will  be  found  in  Ctesar,  de  Bella 
GaUico,  Book  VI.  Chap,  iii.,  the  passage  beginning  "Si  quis 
aut  privatua  aut  publicus,"  sad  ending  "Ncque  honos  uUus 
com  muni  catur." 

Tbey  deorae  revards  and  punisliinentB,  and  if  any  ona  refuses  to  submit 
.  to  their  eenfflnoe,  whether  magistrate  or  private  mao,  thej  inlerdiat  him 
the  Bs^rlGces.  This  is  the  greatest  pnnishment  tbat  oanhe  Inflicled  among 
tho  &aulai  heeanse  such  as  ara  under  this  prohibition  are  considered  as 
impious  ftnd  wioked;  all  men  stun  them,  and  dooline  their  eonveraation 
and  fellowship,  lest  thej  should  suffer  from  the  eontagion  of  their  misfor- 
tunes. They  can  neithcr^have  recourse  to  tlie  law  for  juBtiec,  nor  are 
capable  of  anj  public  office. 

NAPOLEON   I, 

Compare  the  character  and  fjll  of  Bonaparte  with  that  of 
the  king  of  Babylon  as  described  in  the  rcmaJ-kable  language 
of  the  prophet  Isaiah,  chapter  xiv.,  verses  4 — 22. 

THE   PALLS   OF  LANARK. 

The  following  lines  in  an  album  formerly  kept  at  the  inn  at 
Lanark  evidently  suggested  to  Southcy  his  playful  verses  on 
The  Cataract  of  Lodore : — 


lyClOOglC 


raoTOTYPJsa. 

■Witb  horses  and  ohaiaes, 
By  day  and  by  darlr, 
To  the  Falls  of  Lanark  1 
Par,  good  people,  after  all, 
Wbatia  a  waterfall! 
It  oomoB  roaring  and  grumbling, 
And  leaping  and  tnmbling. 
And  topping  and  skipping. 
And  foaming  and  dripping, 


Butb  Linn  and  BonnilOAj 
But  tiie  trunks  are  lied  on, 
And  I  must  be  gone. 

In  the  varied  music  of  Schiller's  Song  of  the  Bell  may  be 
found  the  same  style ; — 

©ci  aSenn  mit^  BiflauB  The  man  must  be  out 

3n3  fcinb!icf)E  Srteil,  In  bostile  life  toiling, 

'Slug  Wirftit  «nb  flreficit  Be  slruggllng  and  moiling, 

Ultb  DflanjEn  unb  [diaffm.  And  planting,  obtaining, 

etliflfH,  frtnffcn,  Devising  and  gaining, 

5)!uf  loelteil  Itnb  WQSen,  And  daring,  ODduring, 

EaS  ®\M  ju  eviagm.  So  fortune  seonring. 

turgot's  epigbaph  on  TBANKLIN. 

Eripuit  eielo  fulmen,  aoeptramqus  lyranuis. 

Thia  insoription,  the  highest  compliment  ever  paid  to  the 
American  philosopher  and  statesman,  and  originally  ascribed  to 
Condoroet  and  Mirabeau,  was  written  by  Turgot,  Louis  XVI.'a 
minister  and  controller-general  of  finance,  and  first  appeared 
in  the  correspondence  of  &rimm  and  Diderot,  April,  1778.  It , 
js,  however,  merely  a  modification  of  a  line  in  tlie  Anti-Lucre- 
tius of  Cardinal  de  Polignac,  lib.  i.,  v.  37  : — 

Eripuilque  Jovi  fulmen,  Phceboque  sogittas, 

which  is  in  turn  traced  to  the  A&tronomicon  of  IVTarcus  Mani- 
Hus,  a  poet  of  the  Augustan  age,  who  says  of  Epicurus,  lib.  i. 
V.  104,— 


lyClOOglC 


708  PROTOTYPES. 

Eripuilque  Jori  fulmcn,  -rirosqne  Tonanti. 

Taking  the  laurel  from  tlie  brow  of  Epicurus  to  place  it  upon 
the  head  of  Franklin  is  not  so  inappropriate,  when  we  recall 
the  sketch  of  the  former  by  Lucretiua  iUustrans  commoda  vitse 

THE   MECKLENBURG  BBOLAEATION  Or  INDEPEM'DENCB. 

Among  those  who  sympathized  most  deeply  with  the  op- 
pressed inhabitants  of  New  England,  and  who  were  earliest  to 
express  indignation  at  the  outrages  of  British  tyranny,  were 
the  militia^officers  of  North  Carolina,  most  of  whom  were  Pres- 
byterians of  Scotch-Irish  nativity.  On  the  20th  of  May,  1775, 
the  delegates  of  the  Mecklenburg  convention,  "  after  sitting  in 
the  court-house  all  night,  neither  sleepy,  hungry,  nor  fatigued, 
and  after  discussing  every  paragraph,''  unanimously  passed  the 
following  resolutions.  It  will  be  observed  that  this  memorable - 
Declaration  of  Independence  contains  many  of  the  ideas,  and  , 
some  of  the  very  phrases  and  forma  of  .expression,  afterwards 
employed  by  Mr.  Jefferson,  and  incorporated  in  his  draft  of 
that  great  national  document  whose  adoption,  on  the  4th  of 
July,  1776,  gave  birth  to  a  nation  of  freemen.  The  more 
striking  similarities  are  tere  shown  in  Italics  ;— 

Resolved,  That  whosoever  directly  or  indirectly  abetted,  or 
in  any  way,  form,  or  manner  countenanced,  the  unchartered 
and  dangerous  invasion  of  our  rights,  as  claimed  by  Great  Bri- 
tain, is  an  enemy  to  this  country,  ta  America,  and  to  the  inhe- 
rent and  inalienable  rights*  of  Man. 

Resolved,  That  we,  the  citizens  of  Mecklenburg  county,  do 
hereby  dissolve  the  political  hands  which  have  connected  us  to 
the  mother  country,  and  hereby  absolve  ourselves  from  all  alle- 
giance to  the  British  Crown,  and  abjure  all  political  connection, 
contract,  or  association  with  that  Nation,  who  have  wantonly  , 
trampled  on  our  rights  and  liberties,  and  inhumanly  shed  the 
blood  of  American  patriots  at  Lexington. 


lyClOOglC 


PROTOTYPES.  709 

Resolved,  That  we  do  hereby  declare  ourselves  a  free  and 
ind^endent  people  ;  are,  and  of  right  ought  to  he,  a  sovereign 
and  self-governing  association,  under  the  control  of  no  powei' 
other  than  that  of  OHR  G-OO,  and  the  general  Goveinment  of 
the  Congress;  to  the  maintenance  of  which  independence  toe 
solemnly  pledge  to  each  other  our  mutual  co-operation,  our  lives, 
ow  fortunes,  and  ov/r  most  sacred  honor. 

Ei;soi:VED,  That  as  we  now  acknowledge  t)ie-esistecee  and 
control  of  no  law  or  legal  officer,  civil  or  military,  within  this 
country,  we  do  herehy  ordain  and  adopt  as  a  rule  of  life  all, 
each,  and  every  of  our  former  laws ;  wherein,  nevertheless,  the 
Crown  of  Great  Britain  never  can  he  considered  as  holding 
rights,  privileges,  immunities,  or  authorities  therein. 

Eesoived,  That  it  is  further  decreed  that  all,  each,' and 
dvery  military  officer  in  this  county  is  hereby  reinstated  in  his 
former  command  and  authority,  he  acting  conformahly  to  these 
regulations;  and  that  every  member  present  of  this  delegation 
shall  henceforth  be  a  civil  officer,  viz. :  a  Justice  of  the  Peace 
in  the  character  of  a  "  Committee-man,"  to  issue  process,  hear 
and  determine  all  matters  of  controversy,  aoeording  to  said 
adopted  laws,  and  to  preserve  peace,  union,  and  harmony  in  said 


ty ;  and  to  i 
and  fire  of  freed  m 
and  organized  go 
After  discuasi 
laws  and  regula 
mittee  of  Public 
gates,  the  whole  p 
signed.     A  selec 
more  full  and  c  fi 
formal  Deelaratii 
Joumed  about  tw 


d  h 
b  ish  d        h    P 


The  recent  po 
presented  one  of 


lyClOOglC 


710  PROTOTYPES. 

flfid  American  history,  li^  its  archetype  in  the  Church  whose 
progress  in  this  country  it  was  designed  to  oppose,  la  Italy 
there  was  formerly  a  strange  order  of  monks  calling  theinselves 
Frati-ea  Ignorantix,  "Brothers  of  Ignorance."  They  used  to 
hind  themselTes  by  oath  not  to  understand  nor  to  learn  any 
thing,  and  answered  all  questions  by  saying,  Nemio,  "  I  do  not 
know."  Their  first  proposition  was,  "  Though  you  do  not  un- 
derstand the  words  you  speak,  yet  the  Holy  Ghost  understands 
them,  and  the  devil  flees."  In  opposing  ment  " 
they  argued  thug  : — "Suppose  this  friar  studies  and  b 
learned  man,  the  consequence  will  he  that  he  will  want  to  be- 
come our  superior ;  therefore,  put  the  sack  around  his  neck, 
and  let  him  go  begging  from  house  to  house,  in  town  and 
country." 


THE   OEiaiNAL   0¥  BTIHTAN  B   PILGRIM  B  PROGKEBB. 

The  Isle  of  Man,  or  the  Legal  Proceedings  in  Manshire 
against  Sin,  wherein,  by  may  of  a  continual  AUegory,  the  chief 
malefactors  disturbing  both  Chwch  and  Com-momoealth  are 
defected  and  attached,  loith  their  arraignment  and  judicial 
trial,  according  to  the  laws  of  England;  the  spiritual  use 
thereof,  with  an  apology  for  the  manner  of  handling  most 
necessary  to  be  first  read,  for  direction  in  the  right  use  of  the 
allegory.   By  the  Rev.  Richard  Rernard. 

An  allegory  with  the  above  title,  originally  published  more 
than  two  hundred  years  ago,  was  reprinted  in  Bristol,  England, 
in  1803.  In  a  note  to  this  edition,  addressed  to  the  reader, 
the  editor  states  that  the  work  is  prized  as  well  on  account  of 
the  ingenuity  of  the  performance  as  the  probability  of  its 
having  suggested  to  Mr.  John  Bunyan  the  first  idea  of  his  Pil- 
grim's Progress,  and  of  his  Holy  War,  which  was  intimated  on 
a  leaf  facing  the  title-page,  by  the  late  Kev.  Mr.  Toplady. 

The  editor  says,  "That  Bunyan  had  seen  the  book  may  be 
inferred  from  its  extensive  circulation,  for  in  one  year  only 
after  its  first  publication  it  ran  through  seven  editions."  He 
then  proceeds  to  the  internal  evidence,  and  points  out  a  sup- 


lyGoogle 


PROTOTYPES,  711 

posed  similarily  between  the  characters  in  the  two  woriss,  aa 
between  Wilful  Will  of  the  one  and  Will-be- Will  of  the  other ; 
Mr.  Worldly  Wiseman  of  Bunjaii  and  Sir  Worldly  Wise  of 
Bernard;  Soul's  Town  of  Bernard  and  Bunyan's  Town  of 
Man's  Soul,  &c. . 

That  the  book  has  no  very  high  order  of  genius  to  commend 
it  is  CTident  from  the  fact  that  it  has  passed  into  coraparatiTC 
obscurity.  The  world  does  not  suffer  the  works  of  true  pro- 
phets to  die.  Stillj  there  is  enough  in  it  to  render  it  worthy  of 
being  held  in  remembrance ;  and,  antedating  Bunyan  as  it  does, 
passing  through  seven  editions  immediately  after  its  first  publi- 
cation, presenting  some  striking  analogies  with  the  great  master 
of  allegory,  and  sinking  into  obscurity  before  the  brighter  and 
more  enduring  light  of  the  Bedford  tinker,  its  author  deserves 
honorable  mention  for  hia  attempt  to  present  religious  truth  in 
a  striking  and  impressive  form  at  a  period  when  such  attempts 

Southey,  in  his  Commonplace  Book,  gives  a  long  quotation 
from  Luoian's  Bermotimus,  to  show  how  Banyan  was  antici- 
pated, in  the  main  idea  of  his  ^legory,  by  4  Greek  writer,  as 
fiir  bick  as  the  =(ecoiid  century. 

Another  claimant  for  this  Telemaobus  of  Protestant  religious 
1  teriture  his  recently  been  brought  to  light  by  Catherine 
Isabella  C  irt  who  has  just  published  in  London  a  translation 
of  an  old  French  manuscript  in  the  British  Museum,  which  is 
almost  word  for  word  the  Pilgrim's  Progress.  The  manuscript 
la  the  work  of  i  clergyman,  G.  de  Gridcville,  who  lived  in  the 
fifleenth  century.  Its  title,  in  Norman  English,  is  Pr/lgrein- 
oji,  of  thf  Soule.  The  printer,  Caston,  who  occupied  the 
same  pos  tion  m  London  as  the  Etiennes  of  Paris,  published  in 
14S3  a  translation  of  this  manuscript,  of  which  the  authen- 
ticity appears  incontestable.  It  would  seem,  therefore,  that 
the  ciedit  of  this  celebrated  book  belongs  to  Prance,  although 
France  hitherto  has  shown  less  appreciation  of  the  original  than 
England  has  bestowed  on  the  copy. 


lyClOOglC 


712  TROTOTYPES. 

KOBINSON   CRUSOE  :   WHO    WROTE   IT  ? 

Disraeli,  in  his  ever-otarming  Curiositms  of  Liter atvre,  ex- 
presses boldly  the  opinion  that  "  no  one  had,  or  perhaps  could 
have,  oonyerted  the  history  of  Selkirk  into  the  wonderful  story 
we  possess  but  De  Foe  himself."  So  have  we  all  been  acous- 
tomed  to  beheve,  from  those  careless,  happy  days  of  boyhood 
when  we  pored  intently  over  the  entrancing  pages  of  "  Kobin- 
BOfl  Crusoe"  and  wished  that  we  also  could  have  a  desert 
island,  a  sumnier  bower,  and  a  winter-eave  retreat,  as  well  as  he. 
But  there  is,  alas !  some  slight  ground  at  least  for  believing 
that  De  Foo  did  not  write  that  immortal  tale,  or,  at  aU  events, 
the  better  portion  of  it,  viz-,  the  first  part  or  volume  of  the 
work.  In  Sir  H.  UHia's  Letters  of  Eminent  Literary  Men 
(Camden  Soe.  Pub.  1B43,  vol.  23),  p.  420,  Letter  137  is  from 
"  Daniel  De  Foe  ia  the  Earl  of  Halifax,  engaging  himself  to 
his  lordship  as  a  political  writer."  In  a  note  by  the  editor  a 
curious  anecdote  is  given,  quoted  from  "  a  volume  of  Memo- 
randa in  the  handwriting  of  Thomas  Warton,  poct-Jaureate, 
preserved  in  the  British  Museum,"  ia  relation  to  the  actual 
authorship  of  the  "Life  and  Adventui-es  of  Robinson  Crusoe." 
The  extract  is  as  follows; — 

"Mem.  July  10,  1774.— In  the  year  1759,  I  was  told  by  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Hollaway,  rector  of  Middleton  Stoney,  in  Osford- 
shire,  then  about  seventy  years  old,  and  in  the  early  part  of  his 
life  chaplain  to  Lord  Sunderland,  tliat  he  had  often  heard  Lord 
Sunderland  say  that  Lord  Oxford,  while  prisoner  in  the  Tower 
of  London,  wrote  tlie  first  volume  of  the  History  of  Robinson 
Crusoe,  merely  as  au  amusement  under  confinement,  and  gave 
it  to  Daniel  De  Foe,  who  frequently  visited  Lord  Oxford  in 
the  Tower  and  was  one  of  his  pamphlet- writers ;  that  De  Foe, 
by  Lord  Oxford's  permission,  printed  it  as  his  own,  and,  en- 
couraged by  its  extraordinary  success,  added  himself  the  second 
volume,  the  inferiority  of  which  is  generally  acknowledged. 
Mr.  HoUoway  also  told  me,  from  Lord  Sunderland,  that  Lord 
Oxford  dictated  some  parts  of  the  manuscript  to  De  Foe.  Mr 
Hollaway," — Warton  adds, — "  was  a  grave,  conscientious  clergy- 


lyGoogle 


PROTOTYPES.  713 

man,  not  vain  of  telling  anecdotes,  very  learned,  particularly  a 
good  Orientalist,  author  of  some  tkeologioal  tracts,  bred  at  Kton 
School,  and  a  Master  of  Arts  of  St.  John'a  College,  C 
He  used  to  say  that  '  Robinson  Ciusoo  at  its  first  [ 
and  for  some  time  afterward,  was  universally  i 
credited  as  a  genuine  history,  A  fictitious  narrative  of  this 
.  sort  was  then  a  new  thing.' " 

Besides,  it  may  bo  added,  the  real  and  somewhat  similar  cir- 
eumstancea  of  Alexander  Selkirk's  solitary  abode  of  four  years 
and  four  months  on  the  island  of  Juan  Fernandez,  had,  only  a 
few  years  previously,  been  the  subject  of  general  conversation, 
and  had  therefore  prepared  the  public  mind  for  the  posaibility, 
if  not  the  probability,  of  suoh  adventures. 


PROVERB   MISASCRIBED   TO  DErOE. 

In  an  article  on  the  writings  of  Daniel  Defoe,  in  a  late 
number  of  the  Edinburgh  Reviem,  the  critic  refers  to  the  Tru&- 
Bom  Englishman,  the  opening  quatrain  of  whioh  is  quoted  as 
being  "all  that  will  ever  be  remembered  of  the  poem." 

■Wharevor  God  areola  a  house  of  prayer, 


The  devil  is  sure  to  1 

uildaohapelther 

And  'twill  bo  found, 

TLB  Utter  has  the  lai 

geet  oongregatio 

A  recent  number  of  Chambers's  Papers  for  the  People  also 
contains  an  article  on  Defoe,  in  which  the  same  lines  are  quoted 
as  having  since  grown  into  a  proverb.  It  is  evident  that  the 
two  critics  believed  the  idea  to  he  original  with  Defoe,  Bui 
they  were  both  in  error;  for  in  an  old  tract,  entitled  The  Vine- 
yards of  Vertue,  printed  in  1591,  seventy-seven  years  before 
Defoe  was  born,  may  be  found  the  following  sentence  ; — 

It  la  oftentimea  seeno,  ihat  as  Ood  hath  his  Cburohe,  so  nill  the  Benill 
have  a  Cliappell. 

It  was  also  used  before  Defoe's  time  by  George  Herbert  and 
Robert  Burton.  The  former  says,  in  his  Jacula  Prudentum, 
"  No  sooner  is  a  temple  built  to  God,  but  the  Devil  builds  a 


lyClOOglC 


714  PROTOTYPES. 

chapel  hard  bj  j"  and  the  latter,  in  his  Anatomy  of  MelancJwli/, 
thus  expresses  it :  "  Where  God  hath  a  Temple  the  Devil  will 
have  a  Chapel."  It  is  evident  that  Defoe  only  versified  a  well- 
knowfl  proverb  of  his  day, 

THE   USE   OP   LANGUAGE. 

To  Talleyrand  has  generally  been  attributed  the  authorship 
of  the  maxim  that  "the  use  of  language  is  to  conceal  our 
thoughts."  (La  parole  a  St6  donnSe  Ji  I'homme  pour  mder  k 
cacher  sa  pensfe.) 

In  Pycroft'8  Ways  and  Words  of  Men  of  Letters,  a  quotation 
is  made  from  an  article  on  The  Use  of  Language,  published  in 
3  periodical  called  the  Bee,  under  date  of  October  20,  1759, 
which  reads  as  follows :  "He  who  best  knows  how  to  conceal 
his  necessity  and  desires  is  the  moat  likely  person  to  find 
redress;  and  the  true  use  of  speech  is  not  so  tnuch  to  express 
our  wants  as.  to  conceal  them." 

Nearly  a  century  before  this,  Dr.  South  preached  a  sermon 
in  Westminster  Abbey,  on  The  Wisdom  of  the  World,  in  which 
he  said,  "  Men  speak  with  designs  of  mischief,  and  therefore 
they  speak  in  the  dark.  In  short,  this  seems  to  be  the  true 
inward  ju'lgment  of  all  our  politic  sages,  that  speech  was 
given  to  the  ordinary  sort  of  men  whereby  to  communicate 
their  mind,  biU  to  wise  men  wherrehy  to  conceal  it." 

ftOANDINAVIAN   SKULL  OUP8 

Whit  3.  pntty  tale  was  slaughtered  when  G-ienville  Piggot 
pointed  out  in  hia  Manual  of  Scandiiiaaian  M/tholcgy,  the 
blundering  tianslatiDn  of  the  passage  in  an  old  Scan  hnavian 
p  em  relating  to  the  occupation  of  the  blest  in  the  halls  of 
Valhalla  the  Northern  paradise '  '  Soon  shall  we  dnnk  out  of 
the  curve  i  horni  tf  the  head  are  the  words  in  the  death- 
song  of  Eegncr  Lodbrog  meaning  by  this  violent  fissure  to 
say  that  they  wouH  mibibe  their  liquor  out  of  cups  formed 
from  the  crookel  horns  of  animiK  The  fir^t  translators, 
however   n  t  stcirg  then   way  el  ailj,  rendiied  the  passage, 


lyGoogle 


PEOTOTYPES. 


715 


"Soon  shall  we  drink  out  of  the  shulU  of  our  enemies;"  and 
to  tlijs  strange  banqueting  there  are  allusions  without  end  to 
be  met  with  in  our  literature.  Peter  Pindar,  for  example,  once 
said  that  the  hooksellers,  like  the  heroes  of  Valhalla,  drank 
their  wine  out  of  the  skulls  of  authors. 

SKEAT   LITEKIRI    PLAGIARISM. 

'i^\i6  London  Athenxum.  asseits  that  Palej's  Natural  Theology 
is  copied  from  a  series  of  papers  which  appeared  about  the 
end  of  the  seventeenth  century,  m  the  fjeipsio  Transactions, 
written  by  a  Dutch  pbikfopher  named  Nieuwentjt.  It  is  ex- 
traordinary that  thiB  discovery  was  not  made  before,  inasmuch 
as  the  papers,  after  having  been  published  at  Amsterdam  about 
the  year  1700,  were  afterwards  translated  into  English  by  Mr. 
Chamberlayne,  and  published  by  Longman  &  Co.,  in  1818,' 
about  fifteen  years  after  Paley's  Natural  Theology  appeared. 
As  Paley  quotes  Dr.  Nieuwentyt  from  theiei^si'c  Transacfitins, 
he,  of  course,  must  have  known  and  perused  them.  Par^lel 
passages  are  printed  side  by  side  in  the  Aihermuntj  for  the 
purpose  of  proving  the  assertion, 

OLD  BALLAD  a. 

It  was  not  the  more  polished  author  of  Ivanhoe  who  gave  us 
the  unfading  picture  of  the  Black  Knight,  but  he  who  sang  of 

He  Han  the  ptiae  eehe  duje. 
His  acton  it  hbs  all  of  blaoke, 
His  benberke,  and  bis  aliedde. 


When  tbey  came  from  the  fcoiae. 

It  was  not  the  "  thousand-souled  Shakspeare"  who  gave 
birth  to  the  story  of  the  pound  of  flesh ;  for  Shylock  is  no 
other  than  Gernutus  iJte  Jew  of  Venice.  We  subjoin  two  stau- 
zas  from  Percy's  Eeliques ; — 

merry  jest 


For  to  be 

That  shaJl  bo  largo  ai 


ho) 


lyClOOglC 


716  PEOTOTYPBa. 

The  bloody  Jew  now  readj  is, 

"With  wtettad  blade  in  hond ; 
To  spoil  the  blood  of  innocent 

By  forfeit  of  hie  bond. 

Even  the  tragedy  of  Lear  w^  set  to  the  tune  of  "  When 
flying  Fame"  hefore  it  was  ktiown  to  the  stage.  Nor  will  it 
be  unjust  to  the  memory  of  the  good  arid  ^fted  (Joldamitli  to 
Bay  that  the  Old  Haiper  sang ; — 

Thna  eTery  day  I  fast  and  pray. 

And  erer  will  doe  till  I  dye; 
And  gett  me  to  some  soorett  place, 

Foj-  soe  did  hee,  and  soe  will  I,— 

hefore  the  gentle  Angelina  thought  of  saying; — 

And  there  forlorn,  deapMring  hid, 

I'll  lay  me  down  and  die: 
'Twas  BO  for  me  that  Edwin  did. 

And  so  for  him  will  I. 

THE   WANDEHING   JEW. 

The  success  of  Le  Jwif  Errant  of  M.  8ae,  when  first  pnb- 
lished,  arose  doubtless  from  two  causes :  tie  deep  hold  upon  the 
poptdar  heart  which  the  legend  of  the  lonely  wanderer  natur- 
ally acquired,  and  the  reaction  against  papacy  at  that  period. 
The  efforts  of  the  church,  and  particularly  of  the  Society  of 
Jesus,  against  which  it  was  specially  directed,  to  either  suppress 
it  or  neutraline  its  effects,  tended  the  more  to  extend  its  influence. 
The  legend  of  a  wanderer,  pursued  by  some  fate  or  power 
ahoTe,  suifering,  solitary  and  deathless,  is  as  old  as  the  human 
race.  It  takes  a  new  form  with  every  step  in  human  progress, 
adapting  itself  to  the  character  of  the  period  and  place  where  it 
reappears.  It  belongs  to  the  early  Bast,  notably  the  Hindoo 
legendary  literature,  to  Greece  and  Home,  and  to  Christendom, 
taking  shape  rather  from  the  religious  than  the  ethical  elements 
of  character.  The  Wandering  Jew  of  Christendom  varies  with 
times  and  places,  as  his  name  also  varies.  He  is  Salathiel, 
AhaBuems,  Cartaphilus,  Thendas,  Zerib  Bar  EUa,  IsbaJ,  Michoh- 
Ader,  Balt^(sus,  Isaac  Laquedon  or  something  else,  as  circum- 


lyGoogle 


PROTOTYPES. 


717 


stances  determine.  The  German  designation — the  Everlasting 
Jew,  der  Rwige  Jade — ia  more  specifically  agniflcant  really  than 
that  of  other  langnages,  in  most  of  Which  it  is  "wandering." 

The  weird  figure,  wandering  in  fulfillment  of  his  doom  in  the 
Carpathians,  or  halting  at  Niimhei^  or  Bambei^,  or  going  in 
and  out  among  the  peasantry  of  Brittany  or  Wales,  is  an 
attractive  subject:  a  vague,  shadowy  form;  mortal  and  yet  im- 
mortal ;  typical  at  once  of  man's  liability  to  death,  and  of  liia 
everlasting  existenee.  He  has  the  passions  and  anxieties  and 
sorrows  of  manhood,  and  is  endowed  with  a  function  which 
places  him  beyood  the  operations  of  Providence.  From  the 
earliest  notice  of  this  hero,  which  occurs  in  the  Chronicles  of 
the  Abbey  of  St.  Albans,  he  appears  in  numerous  and  manifold 
literary  forms— drama,  lyric,  b^ad,  historical  poem,  legend, 
novel,  study,  essay,  chronicle,  biography,  myth  and  paragraph, 
to  the  extent  of  perhaps  a  hundred  volumes.  The  legends  of 
most  of  these  agree  in  representing  the  Jew  as  a  wanderer  since 
the  day  of  the  cniciflsion,  sometimes  repentant  and  sometimes 
defiant,  but  always  going.  ¥rom  this  general  voice  Dr.  Oroly, 
in  his  Salathid,  upon  a  true  artistic  principle,  departs,  and  makes 
his  doomed  one  live  only  the  usual  period  of  man's  life.  His 
Jew  is  repentant  and  anxious  ba  die,  and  dies  in  due  season.  The 
Jew  of  M.  Eubule-Evans,  in  the  CWse  of  ImauirtaUly,  also  is 
repentant,  but,  pursued  by  implacable  vengeance  of  the 
Almighty,  he  reiusee,  in  his  morbid  pride,  to  purchase  the  repose 
of  death  at  the  price  of  self-abasement;  but  at  Jast  reaches  con- 
trition through  the  softening  influence  of  human  love,  repents 
and  dies. 

With  similar  general  characteristics  the  wanderer  of  M.  Sue's 
powerful  melodramatic  story  seeks  death  in  every  clime  and 
form ;  but  lives  on,  wanders  on,  and  tflile  to  achieve  human  ends, 
until  the  close  of  the  romance,  when  the  hero  sets  out  anew. 
Our  readeis  are  doubtless  fiimiliar  with  the  story — the  scattered 
heirs  of  a  fortune  of  two  million  francs  to  be  divided  among 
them  upon  condition  of  their  assembling  at  a  given  hour  in  a 


lyClOOglC 


718  PROTOTYPES. 

^ven  room  in  Paris;  and  the  machinations  of  the  wily  Jesuit 
Eodin,  whose  end  was  to  Secure  the  money  for  his  own  society. 

The,  Chronicles  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Albans,  already  referred 
fo,  report  the  following  circumstantial  details; — 

In  the  year  1228,  a  certain  archbishop  of  Armenia  came  on 
a  pilgrimage  to  England  to  see  the  relics  of  the  saints,  and  visit 
the  sacred  places  in  this  kingdom,  as  he  had  done  in  others ;  he 
also  produced  letters  of  recommendation  from  his  Holiness  the 
Pope  to  the  religious  men  and  prelates  of  the  churches,  in 
which  they  were  enjoined  to  receive  and  entertain  him  with  due 
reveien^e  and  honor.  On  his  arrival,  he  came  to  St.  Albans, 
where  he  was  received  with  all  respect  by  the  abbot  and  monks ; 
4nd  at  thi^  place,  being  fatigued  with  his  journey,  he  remained 
feome  days  to  rest  himself  and  his  followers.  In  the  course  of 
conversation  by  means  of  their  interpreters,  he  ii 
inquiries  relating  to  the  religion  and  religi 
this  country,  and  told  many  strange  things  ooncemiag  the 
countries  of  the  East.  In  the  coarse  of  conversation  he  was 
a^ked  whether  he  had  ever  seen  or  heard  anything  of  Joseph, 
a  ma,n  ot  whom  there  was  much  talk  in  the  world,  who,  when 
our  Lord  suffered,  was  present  and  spoke  to  him,  and  who  is  still 
alive,  in  evidence  to  the  Christian  fM.th;  in  reply  to  which  a 
knight  in  his  retinue,  who  was  his  interpreter,  replied,  speaking 
in  Erench,  "My  Lord  well  knows  that  man,  and  a  little  before 
he  took  bis  way  to  the  western  countries,  the  said  Joseph  ate  at 
the  table  of  my  lord  the  archbishop  in  Armenia,  and  he  has 
often  seen  and  held  converse  with  him."  He  was  then  asked 
about  what  had  passed  between  Christ  and  the  said  Joseph,  to 
which  he  repUed,  "  At  the  time  of  the  suffering  of  Jesus  Christ, 
he  WM  seized  by  the  Jews  and  led  into  the  hall  of  judgment, 
before  Pilate,  the  governor,  that  he  might  be  judged  by  him  on 
the  accusation  of  the  Jews ;  and  Pilate  finding  no  cause  for 
adjudging  him  to  death,  said  to  tbem,  'Take  him  and  judge 
him  according  to  your  law;'  the  shouts  of  the  Jews,  however, 
increasing,  he,  at  their  request,  released  unto  them  Barabbas,  and 


lyClOOglC 


PR0T0TTPE8.  719 

delivered  Jesus  fo  them  to  be  crucified.  When,  therefore,  the 
Jews  were  dragging  Jesus  forth,  and  had  reached  the  door, 
Cartaphilus,  a  porter  of  the  hall,  in  Pilate's  service,  as  Jesus 
was  going  out  of  the  door,  impiously  struok  him  ov.  the  baclc 
with  his  tand,  and  said  In  mockery,  'Go  quicker,  Jesus,  go 
quicker;  why  do  you  loiter?'  and  Jesus  looking  back  on  him 
with  a  severe  countenance,  said  to  him, '  I  am  going  and  you  will 
wait  till  I  return.'  ■  And  according  as  oui  Lord  said,  this  Car- 
taphilus ia  still  awaiting  his  return.  At  the  time  of  our  Lord's 
suffering  he  was  thirty  years  old,  and  when  he  attains  the  age 
of  a  hundred  years,  he  always  returns  to  the  same  age  as  he 
was  when  oitr  Lord  suffered.  After  Christ's  death,  when  the 
Catholic  iaith  gained  ground,  this  Cartaphilus  was  baptraed 
by  Ananias  (who  also  baptized  the  aposfJe  Paul),  and  was  called . 
Joseph.  He,  dwells  in  one  or  other  division  of  Armenia,  and  in 
divers  Eastern  countries,  passing  his  time  amongst  the  bishops 
and  other  prelates  of  the  church;  he  is  a  man  of  holy  conver- 
sation, and  religious;  a  man  of  few  words,  and  circumapecfc  in 
his  behavior,  fcr  he  does  not  speak  at  all  unless  when  questioned 
by  the  bishops  and  religious  men,  and  then  he  tells  of  the  events 
of  old  times,  and  of  those  which  occurred  at  the  suffering  aud 
resurrection  of  our  Lord,  and  of  the  witnesses  of  the  resurrection, 
hameiy,  those  who  rose  with  Christ,  and  went  into  the  holy  city, 
and  appeared  unto  men.  He  also  tells  of  the  creed  of  the 
apostles,  and  of  their  separation  and  preaching.  And  all  this  he 
relates  without  smiling  or  levity  of  conversation,  aa  one  who  is 
well  pragtised  in  sorrow  and  the  fear  of  God;  always  looking 
forward  with  fear  to  the  coming  of  Jesus  Christ,  lest  at  the  last 
judgment  he  should  find  liim  in  auger,  whom,  when  on  his  way 
to  death,  he  had  provoked  to  just  vengeance.  Numbers  come  to 
him  from  different  parts  of  the  world,  enjoying  his  society  and 
conversation;  and  to  thom,  if  they  are  men  of  authority,  he 
explains  all  doubts  on  the  matters  on  which  he  is  questioned. 
He  refuses  all  gifts  that  are  offered  to  him,  being  content  with 
slight  food  and  clothing." 


lyClOOglC 


720  CUKIODS   BOOKS. 

Of  the  mytha  of  the  Middle  Agea,  none  is  more  Striking 
than  that  of  the  Wandering  Jew ;  indeed  it  is  so  well  calculated 
to  arrest  the  attention  and  to  excite  the  imagination,  that  it  is 
remarkable  that  we  should  find  an  interval  of  three  centuries 
between  i(s  first  introduction  into  Europe  by  Matthew  Paris 
and  Philip  Mouakes,  and  its  general  acceptance  in  the  sisteenth 
century.  Of  the  romances  of  Eugene  Sue  and  Dr.  Croly,  foun- 
ded upon  the  legend,  the  less  said  the  better.  The  original  le- 
gend is  so  noble  in  its  severe  simpUcitj  that  none  but  a  master 
mind  could  develop  it  with  any  chance  of  success.  Nor  have 
the  poetical  attempts  upon  the  story  fared  better.  It  was 
reserved  for  the  pencil  of  Gustavo  Dor6  to  treat  it  with  the 
originality  it  merited,  and  in  a  series  of  wood-cuts  to  produce 
at  onco  a  poem,  a  romance,  and  a  chcf-d'ceuvre  of  art. 


(SiEvious  Bookg. 


J/p<%  Publieied  in  the  time  of  Q'omwcU. 

A  Fan  to  drive  away  Flies :  a  theolt^cal  treatise  on  Purgatoiy. 

A  most  Delectable  Sweet  Per/mned  Nosegay  for  Gods 
Saints  to  Smell  at. 

A  Fair  of  Belhies  to  How  off  the  DuM  coat  upim  John  Fry. 

A  Proper  Profeot  to  Startle  Fools:  Printed  in  a  Land 
where  Self's  cry'd  vp  and  ZeaTs  cry'd  down. 

A  Reaping- Hook,  well  tempered,  for  the  Stuhbom  Eairs  of  the 
coming  Crop;  or,  Biscuit  baked  in  the  Oven  of  Charity,  care- 
fvlly  conserved  for  the  Ohickms  of  the  Chwch,  the  Spcmwea 
of  the  i^iril,  and  the  sweet  Sioalhws  of  Salvation. 

A  S'U/h  of  Sorrow  for  the  Sinners  of  Zion,  breathed  out  of 
a  Hole  in  the  WaM  of  an  Earthly  Vessel,  hnown  among  Men  by 
the  Name  of  Sam-uel  Fish  (a  Quaker  who  had  been  imprisoned). 


lyClOOglC 


CURIOUS  BOOKS.  721 

A  Shot  aimed  at  the  Devil's  ffead- Quarters  through  the 
Tube  of  the  Cannon  of  the  Covenant. 

Crwmbs  of  Comfort  for  the  Ohickem  of  the  Covenant. 

Eggs  of  Choirity,  layed  by  the  Chickens  of  the  Covenant,  and 
hoUed  with  the  Water  of  Divine  Love.     Take  Ye  and  eat. 

Highr-heeled  Shoes  for  Dwarfs  in,  Holiness. 

Sooks  and  Eyes  for  Believer^  Breedtes. 

Matches  lighted  hy  the  Divine  Eire: 

Seven  Sohs  of  a  Sorroiuftd  Soul  for  Sin,  or  the  Seven 
Penitential  Psalms  of  the  FHncely  Prophet  David;  whereunto 
are'oJso  added,  William  Sumitc^  Handful  of  Honeysuckles, 
and  Divers  Godly  and  Pithy  Ditties,  now  ne'wly  augmented. 

Spiritual  Milk  for  Bahea,  dravm  out  of  ike  Breasts  of  both 
Testaments  for  their  Soul^  Jfowishment :  &  catechism. 

The  Bank  of  Faith. 

The  Christian.  Sodality ;  or,  Catholic  Hive  of  Bees,  sucking 
the  Honey  of  the  Chnrehe^  Prayer  from  the  Blossoms  of  the 
Vtord  of  God,  hlovme  out  of  the  Epistles  and  Gospels  of  the 
Divine  Service  throughout  ihe  yeare.  Collected  by  the  Puny 
Bee  of  all  the  Hive  not  vtorlhy  to  be  named  otherwise  ilian  by 
these  Elements  of  his  N'ame,  F.  P. 

The  Gun  of  Penitence. 

The  Innocent  Love;  or,  the  Holy  Knight:  a  description  of 
the  ardors  of  a  saint  for  the  Virgin. 

The  Shop  of  the  Spiritual  Apothecary;  or  a  collection  of. 
passages  from  the  fathers. 

The  SixpennywoTth  of  Divine  Spirit, 

The  Snuffers  of  Divme  Love. 

The  Sound  of  the  Trumpet:  a  work  611  the  day  of  judgment; 

The  Spiritaal  Mustard  Pot,  to  m.dke  the  Sonl  Sneeze  with 
Devotion. 

The  Three  Daughters  of  Job :  a-  treatise  on  patience,  forti. 
tude,  and  pain. 

Tobacco  battered,  and  the  Pipes  shattered  about  their  Ears 
that  idly  idolize  so  loathsome  a  Vanity,  by  a  Volley  of  holy 
shot  thundered  from  Mount  Helicon :  a  poem  agdnst  the  ueo 
of  tobacco,  by  Joshua  Sylvester. 


lyClOOglC 


Vox  C'aehs;  or,  Newesfrow,  Heaven:  being  imaginary  con 
versaMons  there  befioeen  Henry  YIIL,  Edward  VI.,  Prince 
Senrie,  and  olhers. 

THE   MOST   OTTEIOUS  BOOK   IN. THE   -WORLD. 

The  most  singular  liibliographic  curiosity  is  that  which  be- 
longed to  the  family  of  the  Prince  de  Ligne,  and  is  now  in 
France.  It  is  entitled  Liber  Passionis  Domini  Nostri  Jesu 
Ohristi,  cum.  Oharacteribus  IfuUa  Materia  Compositis.  This 
hook  is  neither  written  nor  printed  1  The  whole  letters  of  the 
test  are  cut  out  of  each  folio  upon  tTie  finest  vellnm ;  and,  being 
interleaved  with  blue  paper,  it  is  read  as  easily  as  the  best  print. 
The  labor  and  patience  bestowed  in  its  completion  must  have 
been  excessive,  especially  when  the  precision  and  minuteness 
of  the  letters  are  considered.  The  general  execution,  in  every 
respect,  is  indeed  admirable;  and  the  vellum  is  of  the  most 
delicate  and  costly  kind.  Rodolphus  H.  of  Germany  rffered 
for  it,  in  1640,  eleven  thousand  ducata,  which  was  probably 
equal  to  sixty  thousand  at  this  day.  The  most  remarkable  cir- 
cumstance eoanected  with,  this  literary  treasure  is,  that  it  hears 
the  royal  arms  of  England,  hut  it  cannot  be  traced  to  have 
ever  been  in  that  country. 

SILVER  BOOK. 

In  the  Library  of  Upsal,  in  Sweden,  there  is  preserved  a 
translation  of  the  Four  Gospels,  printed  with  metal  types  upon 
violeteolored  vellum.  The  letters  arc  silver,  and  lience  it  has 
received  the  name  of  Oodex  Argenteus.  The  initial  letters  are 
in  gold.  It  is  supposed  that  the  whole  was  printed  in  the  same 
.manner  as  bookbinders  letter  the  titles  of  books  on  the  back. 
It  was  a  very  near  approach  to  the  discovery  of  the  art  of 
printing;  but  it  is  not  known  how  old  it  is. 

BOOK  AMATETJKS. 

It  was  the  AbbS  Hive,  librarian  to  the  Duke  de  la  ValliSre, 
■who  made  the  following  classification  :— - 

A  BlhliognoUe  is  one  knowing  in  title-pagea  and  colophons, 


lyGoogle 


LITERARIANA. 


723 


and  m  editions;  when  and  where  printed;  the  presses  whence 
issued ;  and  all  the  minutise  of  &  book. 

A  BihUographe  is  a  descriher  of  books  and  other  literary 
arrangements. 

A  Bibliomane  is  an' indisoriminate  accumulator,  who  blun- 
ders faster  than  he  buys,  cook-brained  and  purse-heavj. 

A  BibltopAik,  the  lover  of  books,  is  the  only  one  in  the 
class  who  appears  to  read  them  for  his  owa  pleasure. 

A  BibUotaphe  buries  his  books,  by  keeping  them  under 
lock,  or  framing  them  in  glass  cases. 


EitPrariana. 


THE   LETTERS   OF  JUNIUS. 


"Junius"  was  the  name  or  signature  of  a  writer  who  pub- 
lished, at  intervals  between  1769  and  1772,  a  series  of  political 
papers  on  the  leading  questions  and  men  of  that  day.  They 
appeared  in  the  newspaper  called  the  PuhKo  Advertiser,  and 
attracted  immense  attention,  partly  from  the  high  position  of 
the  characters  assailed,  (among  whom  was  George  III.  himself,) 
and  still  more  from  their  brilliancy  of  style,  their  boldness  of 
tone,  and  the  tremendous  severity  of  the  invectives  employed  in 
them.  The  letters  are  still  models  of  that  species  of  writing, 
— though  it  has  since  risen  to  such  a  point  of  excellence  gene- 
rally as  would  greatly  weaken  the  force  of  any  similar  pheno- 
mena if  appearing  in  our  day.  However,  from  the  monarch 
to  the  meanest  of  his  subjects,  all  men  were  impressed  deeply 
at  the  time  by  the  letters  of  Junius,  the  mystery  attending 
their  authorship  adding  lai^ely  to  their  influence.  It  was  a 
mystery  at  the  moment,  and  remains  a  puzzle  still.  Not  even 
the  publisher,  Woodfall,  knew  who  his  correspondent  was,  or, 
at  least,  not  certainly.  Yet  all  the  world  felt  the  letters  to  be 
the  work  of  no  common  man.     Thoir  most  remarkable  feature, 


lyClOOglC 


724  LITERARIANA. 

indeed,  was  the  intimate  familiarity  with  high  people  and  offi- 
cial life  which  they  so  clearly  evinced.  "  A  traitor  in  the 
camp  I"  was  tho  cry  of  the  leading  statesmen  of  the  period. 
Hence  it  oeourred  that  almost  every  person  of  talent  and  emi- 
nence then  Jiving  fell,  or  has  since  fallen,  more  or  less  under 
the  suspicion  of  being  Juniua.  But  his  own  words  to  Wood- 
fall  have  aa  yet  proved  true : — "  It  is  not  in  the  nature  of  things 
that  yoti  or  anybody  else  should  know  me,  unless  I  make  my- 
self known."  He  adds  that  he  never  wUI  do  so.  "I  am  the 
sole  depository  of  my  secret,  and  it  shall  die  with  mc."  If  it 
has  not  died  with  him,  he  at  least  has  gone  to  the  grave  with- 
out its  divulgement  by  himselt  But  there  may  "till  he  Cir 
cumstantial  evidence  sufficient  to  betray  him,  in  despite  of  ^11 
his  secretive  care. 

In  Eush's  Residence  at  the  Court  of  Londin  is  preserved 
an  anecdote  relating  to  the  authorship  of  Junius  of  interest 
and  apparent  importance  to  the  inve^itigafflrs  of  thib  ^exed 
question.     It  is  as  follows  ; — 

Mr.  Canning  related  an  anecdote  pertinent  to  the  topics  dc 
rived  from  the  present  king  when  Prince  of  Walci  It  w  la  to 
the  following  effect.  The  late  king  was  in  the  habit  of  going 
to  the  theatre  once  a  week  at  the  time  Junius's  Letters  wore 
appearing,  and  had  a  page  in  his  service  of  the  name  of  Ramus. 
This  page  always  brought  the  play-bill  in  to  the  king  at  tea^ 
time,  on  the  evenings  when  he  went.  On  the  evening  before 
Sir  Philip  Francis  sailed  for  India,  Ramus  handed  to  the  king, 
at  the  same  time  when  delivering  the  play-bill,  a  note  from 
Garrick  to  Eamus,  in  which  the  former  stated  that  there  would 
be  no  more  letters  from  Junius.  This  was  found  to  be  the  very 
night  on  which  Junius  addressed  his  laconic  note  to  Garrick, 
threatening  him  with  vengeance.  Sir  Philip  did  embark  for 
India  nest  morning,  and  in  point  of  fact  the  letters  ceased  to 
appear  from  that  very  day.  The  anecdote  added  that  there 
lived  with  Sir  Philip  at  the  time  a  relation  of  Ramus,  who 
sailed  in  the  morning  with  him.  The  whole  narrative  escit«d 
much  attention,  and  was  new  to  most  of  the  company.    The  first 


lyClOOglC 


LITERARIANA. 


725 


impression  it  made  was,  not  only  that  it  went  far  towards  stow- 
ing, hy  proof  almost  direct,  tliat  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  tho 
author,  but  that  Garrick  must  have  been  in  the  secret. 

The  Beugalllurkajii,  a  Calcutta  paper,  dated  Feb.  19, 1855, 
contains  the  following  paragraph,  which  is  the  more  interesting 
when  taken  in  conjunction  with  several .  facts  connected  with 
Francis's  residence  there,  as  a  member  of  the  council,  for 
several  jears  (1774-80). 

"  The  Englishman  (a  military  newspaper  published  in  Cal- 
entta)  states  that  there  is  a  gentleman  in  Calcutta  who  pos- 
sesses '  an  original  document,  the  publication  of  which  would 
forever  set  at  rest  the  vexata  quxstio  aa  to  the  authorship  of  the 
Letters  of  Junius.'  The  document  which  we  have  seen  is 
what  our  cotemporary  describes  it  to  be,  and  bears  three  signa- 
tures r  that  of  '  Chatham,'  on  the  right-hand  side  of  the  paper; 
and  on  the  left,  those  of  Dr.  Wilmot,  and  J.  Dunning,  after- 
wards Lord  Ashburton.  The  paper,  the  ink,  and  the  writing 
all  induce  us  to  believe  that  the  document  is  genuine;  and  we 
understand  that  the  gentleman  in  whose  possession  it  is  has 
other  documentary  evidence  corroborative  of  this,'  which  still 
further  tends  to  clear  up  the  riddle  which  so  many  have  at- 
tempted to  read  with  small  success.'' 

The  incident  related  by  Mr,  Canning  acquires  additional 
value  and  significance  when  considered  in  connection  with  the 
evidence  in  favor  of  Francis,  so  concisely  drawn  up  by  Ma- 
caulay  in  his  Essay  on  the  impeachment  of  Warren  Hastings. 
After  an  introductory  allusion  tp  thedisputed'authorahip,  Ma- 
caulay  goes  on  to  say  :— 

The  external  evidence  is,  we  thiak,  such  as  would  support  a 
verdict  in  a  civil,  nay,  in  a  criminal,  proceeding.  The  hund- 
writing  of  Junius  is  the  very  peculiar  handwriting  of  BVancis, 
slightly  disguised.  As  to  the  position,  pursuits,  and  connec- 
tions of  Junius,  the  following  are  the  most  important  facts 
which  can  be  considered  as  clearly  proved  ;  first,  tha.t  he  was 
acquainted  with  the  technical  forms  of  the  Secretary  of  State's 
office;  secondly,  that  he  was  intimately  acquainted  with  the 

61* 


lyClOOglC 


LITBRARIAHA. 

IS  of  the  "War  Office;  thirdly,  that  he,  daring  the  year 
1770,  attended  debates  in  the  House  of  Lords,  and  took  notea 
of  speeches,  particularly  of  the  speeches  of  Lord  Chatham ; 
fourtlily,  that  he  bitterly  resented  the  appointment  of  Mr. 
Chamier  to  the  place  of  Deputy  Secretary  at  War;  fifthly,  that 
he  was  hound  by  some  strong  tie  to  the  first  Lord  Holland. 
Now,  Francis  passed  some  jears  in  the  Secretary  of  State's 
office.  He  was  subsequently  chief  clerk  ofthe  War  Office.  He 
repeatedly  mentioned  that  he  had  himself,  in  1770,  heard 
speeches  of  Lord  Chatham;  and  some  of  those  speeches  were 
actually  printed  from  his  notes.  He  resigned  his  clerkship  at 
the  "War  Office  from  resentment  at  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Cha- 
mier. It  was  by  Lord  Holland  that  lie  was  first  introduced 
into  the  public  servioe.  Now,  here  are  five  marks,  all  of  which 
ought  to  be  found  in  Junius.  They  are  all  five  found  in  Fran- 
cis. We  do  not  believe  that  more  than  two  of  them  can  be 
found  in  any  other  person  whatever.  If  this  argument  does 
not  settle  the  question,  there  is  an  end  of  all  reasoning  on  cir- 
cumstantial evidence. 

The  internal  evidence  seems  to  ns  to  point  the  same  way. 
The  style  of  Francis  bears  a  strong  resemhlajice  to  that  of  Ju- 
nius ;  nor  are  we  disposed  to  admit,  what  is  generally  taken  for 
granted,  that  the  acknowledged  compositions  of  Francis  are 
very  decidedly  inferior  to  the  anonymous  letters.  The  argu- 
ment from  inferiority,  at  all  events,  is  one  which  may  be  urged 
with  at  least  equal  force  against  every  cidmant  that  has  ever 
been  mentioned,  with  the  single  exception  of  Burke,  who  cer- 
tainly was  not  Junius.  And  what  eon  elusion, 'after  all,  can  be 
drawn  from  mere  inferiority?  Every  writer  must  produce  his 
beat  work ;  and  the  interval  between  his  best  and  his  second- 
best  work  may  be  very  wide  indeed.  Nobody  will  say  that  the 
best  letters  of.  Junius  are  more  decidedly  superior  to  the  ac- 
knowledged works  of  Francis  than  three  or  four  of  Corneille's 
tragedies  to  the  rest;  than  three  or  four  of  Ben  Jonson's 
comedies  to  the  rest;  than  the  Pilgrim's  Progress  to  the  other 
works  of  Bunyan;  than  Don  Quixote  to  the  other  works  of 


lyGoogle 


LITERAEIANA.  727 

Ceivautes.  Nay,  it  is  certwn  that  the  Man  in  the  Mask,  wto- 
ever  he  may  have  heen,  was  a  most  unequal  writer.  To  go  no 
further  tJian  the  letters  which  bear  the  signature  of  Juuius, — 
the  letter  to  the  king  and  the  letters  to  Horne  Tooke  have  little 
in  oommon  esoept  the  asperity ;  and  asperity  was  an  ingredient 
seldom  wanting  either  in  the  writings  or  in  the  speeches  of 
Francis. 

Indeed,  one  of  the  strongest  roaeons  for  believing  that  Francis 
was  Junius  is  the  moral  resemblance  between  the  two  men.  ^  It 
is  not  difBonH  from  the  letters  which,  under  various  signatures,, 
are  known  to  have  been  written  by  Junius,  and  from  his  deal- 
ings with  Woodfall  and  others,  to  form  a  tolerably  correct  no- 
tion of  his  character.  He  was  clearly  a  man  not  destitute  of 
real  patriotism  and  magnanimity,— a  man  whose  vices  were  not 
of  a  sordid  kind.  But  he  must  also  have  been  a  man  in  the 
highest  degree  arrogant  and  insolent,  a  man  prone  to  malevo- 
lence, and  prone  to  the  error  of  mistaking  his  malevolence  for 
public  virtue.  "  Doest  thou  well  to  be  angry  ?"  was  the  ques-' 
tion  asked  in  oJd  time  of  the  Hebrew  prophet.  And  he  an- 
swered, "I  do  well."  This  was  evidently  the  temper  of  Ju- 
nius ;  and  to  this  cause  we  attribute  the  savage  cruelty  which 
eral  of  his  letters.  No  man  is  bo  mercilesa  as  he 
I  strong  self-delusion,  confounds  his  antipathies 
with  his  duties.  It  may  be  added,  that  Junius,  though  allied 
with  the  democratic  party  by  common  enmities,  was  the  very 
opposite  of  a  democratic  politician.  While  attacking  indivi- 
duals with  a  ferocity  which  perpetually  violated  all  the  laws  of 
literary  warfare,  he  regarded  the  most  defective  parts  of  old 
institutions  with  a  respect  amounting  to  pedantry,  pleaded 
the  caase  of  Old  Sarum  with  fervor,  and  contemptuously  told 
the  capitalists  of  Manchester  and  Leeds  that,  if  they  wanted 
votes,  they  might  buy  land  and  become  freeholders  of  Lanca- 
shire and  Yorkshire.  All  this,  we  believe^  might  stand,  with 
scarcely  ajiy  change,  for  a  character  of  Philip  Francis. 

It  is  not  strange  that  the  great  anonymous  writer  should 
have  beeri  willing  at  that  time  to  leave  the  country  which  had 


lyGoogle 


728  LITERARIANA. 

been  so  powerfullj  stirred  by  hia  eloquence.  Every  thing  had 
gone  against  Mm.  That  party  whieh  he  clearly  preferred  to 
eyery  other,  the  party  of  George  G-renville,  had  been  scattered 
by  the  death  of  its  chief,  and  Lord  Suffolk  had  led  the  greater 
part  of  it  over  to  the  ministerial  benches.  The  ferment  pro- 
duced by  the  Middlesex  election  had  gone  down.  Every  fac- 
tion must  have  been  an. object  of  aversion  to  Junius.  His 
opinions  on  domestic  affeJrs  separated  him  from  the  Ministry, 
hi^  opinions  oa  colonial  affairs  from  the  Opposition,     tinder 

,  such  circumstances,  he  had  thrown  down  his  pen  in  misanthro- 
pic despair.  His  farewell  letter  to  Wood&U  bears  date  Janu- 
ary 19,  1773.  In  that  letter  he  declared  that  he  must  he  an 
idiot  to  write  again;  that  he  had  meaat  well  by  the  cause  and 
the  public;  that  both  were  given  up;  that  there  were  not  ten 

.  men  who  would  act  steadily  together  on  any  question.  "  But 
it  is  all  alike,"  he  added,  "  vile  and  contemptible.  You  have 
never  flinched,  that  I  know  of;  and  I  shall  always  rejoice  to 
hear  of  your  prosperity."  These  were  the  last  words  of  Ju- 
nius. Sooa  afterwards  Sir  Philip  Francis  started  on  his  voyage 
to  Bengal. 

"One  of  the  ablest  articles  in  favor  of  LordiChatham  may  be 
found  in  Hogg's  Instructor,  already  quoted  from.  The  writer 
sums  up  his  evidence  in  a  masterly  manner,  and  almost  conclu- 
sively, were  it  not  that  he  still  leaves,  !ike  others  who  have  pre- 
ceded him,  a  large  space  for  an  entering  wedge.  Nay,  more : 
he  even  divides  the  palm,  and,  though  ho  gives  the  great  Wil- 
liam Pitt  the  chief  glory,  he  intimates  that  Francis  not  only 
wrote  some  of  the  epistles,  but  originated  "  the  idea  of  so  ope- 
rating on  the  public  mind."  He  says  in  his  closing  remarks, 
in  answer  to  the  question,  "  Had  Sir  Philip  Francis  no  share 
in  the  Junian  Letters  V  "  He  certainly  was  privy,  we  imagine, 
to  the  whole  fiifweas,  and,  indeed,  very  probably  wrote  some 
of  the  earlier  and  less,  important  epistles.  He  had  been  private 
secretary  to  Chatham  at  one  time,  and  was  his  friend,  or  rather 
idolizing  follower,  through  life.  But  he  was  not  Junius.  He 
may  even  have  begun  the  epistolary  series,  and  may  deserve 


lyGoogle 


LITBRARIANA.  729 

th         dtphpfL  gtelthif        jra 

t!i    1   bl     im  d     B  t  t  U  Ii    waa      t  JV"  Vw.1 

h  m    If     I         w  th     1  f  L    d  C  mpb  11    L  Ij 

Tra  h  1      w  th  t  b     Plul  p  11  d  h  mp  If 

J  k  h      as&  m  tl    1       tl    t  h     was  tl   t  mj  t 

1)  btdithtft      hhdbgtithltte  w 

d  p  w  -f  1  ally     am    to  li  t  Th    wh  1    mj  te  y 

iS  here  laid  bare..  Lord  Chatham  is  olearly  the  ally  meant;  and 
the  testimony  of  Lady  Erancia,  therefore,  founded  on  the  reve- 
lations of  her  husband,  may  be  held  as  fully  establishing  our 
present  hypothesis." 

Vet  ^^rancia  and  Chatham  both  "  died  and  left  no  sign  ;"  the 
question  is  therefore  still  open  to  discussion,  and,  as  a  late 
writer  has  remarked,  it  is  not  a  mere  question  of  curiosity. 
He  recommends  it  to  the  study  of  every  barrister  who  wishes 
to  make  himself  acquainted  with  the  Theory  of  Evidence. 
There  is  scarcely  a  claim  that  has  been  put  forward  as  yet,  which 
he  will  not  find  worthy  of  his  attention,  especially  when  he  con- 
siders the  remarkable  coincidences  which  have  generally  been 
the  occasion  of  their  being  brought  forward.  He  adds  that  he 
has  during  the  last  thirty  years  successively  admitted  the 
claims  of  five  or  six  of  the  candidates,  but  that  now  he  does 
not  believe  in  one  of  them. 

GRAt's  elesy. 

Never  ths  vetse  approve  and  hold  as  good 
Till  many  a  day  and  many  a  blot  haa  wrought 
The  polished  ivork,  and  chastened  every  thouglit 
By  tenfold  labor  to  perftolion  bronghl.— Hobach. 

The  original  MS.  of  this  immortal  poem  was  lately  sold  at 
auction  in  London.  At  a -former  sale  (1845)  it  was  purchased, 
together  with  the  "Odes,"  by  a  Mr.  Penn,  He  gave  $500  for 
the  Elegy  alone.  He  was  proud,  says  the  Lofidon  Aikens^m, 
of  his  purchase, — so  proud,  indeed,  that  binders  were  employed 
to  inlay  them  on  fine  paper,  bind  them  up  in  volumes  of  richly- 
tooled  olive  morocco  with  silk  linings,  and  finally  enclose  each 
volume  in  a  case  of  plain  purple  morocco.    The  order  was  care- 


lyClOOglC 


730  LITEKAKIANA. 

fully  carried  out,  and  the  volumes  were  deposited  at  Stwfcc 
Pogia,  in  the  great  house  adjoining  the  grave  of  Gray.  The 
MS.  of  the  Elegy  is  fall  of  verhal  alterations  :  it  is  the  only 
copy.  knowD  to  exist,  and  is  evidently  Gray's  first  grouping 
together  of  the  stanzas  as  a  whole.  As  the  Elegy  is  known 
and  admired  hy  almost  every  one  conversant  with  the  English 
language,  we  select  some  of  the  verses,  to  show  the  alterations 
made  hy  the  author.  The  estahlished  test  is  printed  in  Ito- 
man  type,  the  MS.  readings  as  origiuallj  written,  in  Italics  :— 

Of  suoh  as  Hiindaring  near  hor  eeeret  bower 

The  rude  forefathers  of  the  hamlet  sleep 

TtB  breaiy  eall  of  incense-breathing  morn, 

Forewr  tUep;  the  breezy  call  of 

The  Book's  shrill  olarion,  or  the  echoing  horn 

Or  ChanlicUs-  eo  ehrill. 

Or  dimb  his  kneea  tbe  eniicd  kias  to  Eh[u:a 

Bomhg 

doubtful 
Lei  not  ambiUon  moak  their  aeetai  t^l, 

homely 
Their  home1;  jojB 


Aadd 

d 

Some  mute  inglo 

TuUs 

hero  mo 

yrcsl. 

Some  Cromwell 

Ctesoi- 

seonf 

oed 

They  kept  the  n 

isel 

ssleno 

of  tbei 

way 

«in, 

Etch  in  one  aahe 

ally 

e  their  v 

Xn/i  buried  o.iei 

ghui  wilh  so 

Bmsbiog  with  h 

sty 

steps  th 

dews  a 

Withhmls /oot. 

p. 

ni<h 

lyGoogle 


LITEEAUIANA.  1 61 

There,  at  tha  foot  of  yonder  nodding  beeoli 
Ofl  hoary 

apTeadhip 
Hard  Ijy  yon  wood,  now  Bmiling  bb  in  Boorn 

MntWring  his  wayward  fancies,  lie  would  roya , 

Along  the  hea^h,  and  near  hi^  favurite  ixee 

%  the  heath  eide 

The  next,  with  diigea  due,  in  aad  array 

QraTed  on  the  stone  beneath  yon  aged  thom 
Wrote  that 

Lmge  waa  his  bonn^,  and  his  soul  sinoere 

heart 
Or  draw  hie  frailtJoB  fVom  their  dread  ahoda 
!for  seek  to  draa  Ihem 
Thera  they  alike  in  trembluig  hope  repose 
flw  fraiUiea  there 

In  the  original  manuscript  copy,  after  the  eighteenth  stanza, 
are  the  four  following  verses,  which  were  evidently  intended  to 
complete  the  poem,  but  the  idea  of  the  hoary-headed  swain 
oocorringto  the  author,  he  rejected  them  : — 

The  thoughdess  world  to  majesty  may  bow, 
Bsolt  the  briTe  and  idoliae  success; 

Than  power  or  genius  ere  conspired  to  Wesa, 
And  thou  who,  mlndrnl  of  the  unhonored  dead, 

Dost  !n  these  not«a  their  artless  t^e  relate  ,- 
By  night  and  lonely  eonlemplatJon  led 

To  wander  la  ttie  gloomy  walks  of  fate ! 
Hark !  tow  the  sacred  csim  that  breathes  around 

Bids  evory  fierce,  tumultnoua  passion  cease, 
In  atill.  Email  accents  broathing  from  the  ground 

A  grataful  earnest  of  eternal  peace. 

Give  ansiouB  cares  and  endless  wishes  room,' 
But  through  the  cool  acquestered  vale  of  life 
Pursue  the  silent  tenor  of  thy  doom. 

After  the  twenty-fifth  stanza  was  the  following: — 

Hiin  have  we  seen  the  greenwood  side  along. 
While  o'er  tlie  healh  we  hied,  our  labor  done. 


lyGoogle 


7 '62  IITEEARIANA. 

Oft  OS  tlie  iroo^Iarli  piped  ber  fiLrawell  song, 

Preceding  the  epitaph  was  the  following  beautiful  allusion 
to  the  rustic  tomb  of  the  village  scholar : — 
Thera  ECntlcred  alt,  tha  sBrllest  of  the  jear. 

By  bondE  unseeOj  are  Ehowers  of  violate  flmnd; 
The  redbroast  loves  to  build  and  warhls  there. 
And  litlle  .footsteps  ligbtlj-  print  tha  gmnnd. 

G-ray  began  the  composition  of  this  exquisite  poem  in  1742 ; 
bat  SO  caj-efuUy  did  he  proceed,  that  it  remained  on  hia  hands 
for  seveti  years.  It  is  believed  to  have  been  mostly  written 
within  the  precincts  of  tbe  churoh  at  G-rauch ester,  about  two 
miles  from  Oambridgo;  and  the  curfew  in  the  poet's  mind  was 
accordingly  the  great  bell  of  St.  Mary's,  tolled  regularly  every 
evening  at  nine  o'clock  in  Gray'a  time  and  since. 

As  a  piece  of  finished  composition,  possessing  all  the  ele- 
ments of  true  poetry,  in  conception,  in  illustration,  in  the  me- 
cTianicai  structure  of  the  verse,  in  the  simplicity  of  the  style, 
in  the  touching  nature  of  the  ideas,  tbe  Elegy  won  from  the 
outset  a  fame  whict,  as  a  century  of  time  has  but  served  to 
make  it  more  certain  and  more  illustrious,  is  likely  to  last  as 
long  as  mankind  have  the  feelings  of  mortality. 

As  illustrations  of  tbe  popularity  of  this  poem,  we  may  cite 
two  historical  incidents  that  wiU  be  interesting  and  acceptable 
to  the  reader. 

On  the  night  of  September  13,  1759,— the  night  before  the 
capture  of  Quebec  by  the  English, — ^as  the  boats  were  floating 
down  the  river  to  the  appointed  landing,  under  cover  of  the 
night,  and  in  tbe  stillness  of  a  silence  constrained  on  pain  of 
death,  Gen.  Wolfe,  just  arisen  from  a  bed  of  sickness,  harassed 
with  the  anxieties  of  a  protracted  yet  fruitless  campaign,  and  his 
mind  filled  with  the  present  hazard,  slowly  and  softly  repeated 
its  soothing  lines;  and  he  added  to  the  officers  around  him, 
"  Now,  gentlemen,  I  would  prefer  being  the  author  of  that 
poem  to  the  glory  of  beating  the  French  to-morrow." 

On  tbe  night  of  October  23,  1852, — the  night  before  Daniel 
Webster's  death, — the  great  statesman,  having  already  been 


lyGoogle 


LITER  AEI  ANA.  733 

mformed  bj  hia  medical  attendant  tliat  nothing  further  could 
be  done,  except  to  render  his  last  Lours  more  quiet,  said,  some- 
what indistinctly,  the  words,  "Poetry,  poetry, — ^Gray,  Gray!" 
His  son  repeated  the  opening  line  of  the  Elegy,  and  Mr,  Web- 
ster said,  "  That  is  it !  that  is  it !"  The  volume  was  brought, 
and  several  stanzas  of  the  poem  were  read  to  him,  which  gave 
him  evident  pleasure.    ■ 

Among  the  many  who  have  aonglit  notoriety  by  pinning 
themselves  to  the  skirts  of  Gray  ia  a  Mr.  Edwards,  author  of 
The  Oaiions  of  Criticism,.  This  gentleman,  though  a  bachelor, 
was  more  attentive  to  the  fair  ses  than  the  pindaric  Elegist, 
and,  thinking  there  was  a  defect  in  the  immortal  poem  that 
should  be  supplied,  wrote  the  following  creditable  stanzas, 
which  remind,  one  of  Maud  Mailer,  to  be  introduced  imme- 
diately after  "some  Cromwell  guiltless,"  &c. 

Soma  lovely  fair,  ivhoae  unaffected  eliarms 
'jSiiono  forth,  attrnctloq  id  heraolf  unknown, 
Whoaa  beanty  might  Lave  bleat  a  monarch's  arms, 

And  virtue  ca^t  a  lustre  on  a  throne. 
That  humble  beauty  wiirmed  an  honest  heart 

That  virtue  formed  for  every  decent  part 

The  haalthful  offspring  that  adorned  their  honse. 

The  following  beautiful  imitation, by  an  American  poet,  is  the 
best  that  has  ever  been  offered  to  supply  another  remarkable 
deficiency,— the  absence  of  anoh  reflections  on  the  sublime 
truths  and  inspiring  hopes  of  Christianity  as  the  scene  would 
naturally  awaken  in  a  pious  mind.  With  the  exception  of 
two '  or  three  somewhat  equivocal  expressions.  Gray  says 
scarcely  a  word  which  might  not  have  been  said  by  any  one 
who  believed  that  death  is  an  eternal  sleep,  and  who  was 
disposed  to  regard  the  humble  tenants  of  those  tombs  aa 
indeed  "  each  in  his  narrow  cell  fortver  I^d."  A  supplement 
according  so  well  with  the  Elegy,  both  in  elevation  of  senti- 
ment and  force  of  diction,  as  the  following,  might  appropriately 
have  followed  the  stanza, — 

"Far  ftom  the  madding  crowd's  ignoble  strife." 


lyGoogle 


No  airj  clraams  their  aimple  fancies  fired, 

No  thirat  for  wealth,  nor  panting  after  fame; 
But  truth  divine  anhlimer  hopea  inspired, 

Prom  BTery  oottago,  with  the  day,  Brosa 

The  hallowed  voiee  cf  spirit-breathing  prayer; 
And  artless  antheuis,  at  itE  peaceful  close, 

Lilie  holy  iiioenBe,  oharmed  tlie  evening  air. 
Thongh  the;,  each  tome  of  human  lore  UDlmown, 

The  brilliaDt  path  of  science  never  trod. 
The  saored  volume  alaimed  their  hearts  alone, 

Whieh  taught  the  way  to  glory  and  to  God. 
Here  they  from  truth's  eternal  fountain  drew 

The  pHre  and  gladdening  waters,  day  by  day; 
Learned,  sinoe  our  days  are  evil,  fleet,  and  few, 

To  walk  in  Wisdom's  brigit  and  peaoeful  way. 
In  yon  lone  pile  o'er  which  hath  sternly  passed 

The  heavy  hand  of  all -destroying  Time, 
Through  wliose  low  mouldering  aisles  now  aigh  thertlaat, 

And  round  whose  iiltEirs  grass  and  ivy  climb. 
They  gla«31y  thronged,  their  grateful  hymns  to  raise. 

Oft  as  tho  calm  and  holy  Sabbath  shone; 
The  mingled  tribute  of  tlielr  prayers  and  praise 

Here,  from  those  honored  llpa  which  sacred  fire 

Truths  which  their  seal  infiame,  their  hopes  inspire, 

Qive  wings  to  faith,  and  cheek  affliction's  tear. 
When  life  flowed  by,  and,  like  an  angel.  Death 

Oame  to  release  them  to  the  world  on  high. 
Praise  trembled  still  on  eaoh  expiring  breath. 

And  holy  triumph  beamed  from  every  eye. 
Then  gentle  hands  their  "  dust  to  dust"  oonsign ; 

With  quiet  tears,  the  simple  rites  are  said. 
And  here  they  sleep,  till  at  the  trump  divine 

The  earth  and  ocean  render  up  their  dead. 

BOBNE   FROM  THE  PAIITINO   INTERVIEW   0?  HECTOR  AND 
ANDROMACHE. 

From  the  manusoript  of  Pope's  translation  of  Homer's  Iliad 
wc  select  a  passage,  with  its  alterations  and  emendatioas,  eha- 


lyGoogle 


LITERARIANA.  735 

racteristic,  like  those  of  tte  foregoing,  of  the  taste  and  preci- 
Bion  of  the  author.  It  is  interesting  to  note  the  variety  of 
cpithete,  the  imperfect  idea,  the  gradual  emhellishment,  and  the 
critieal  erasures.  But  in  their  eontemplationj  rather  than  say, 
with  Waller,— 


we  should  feel  with  Dr.  Johnson,  who  remarked,  upon  examin- 
ing the  MS8,  of  Milton,  that  "  such  relics  show  how  excellence 
is  acquired  :  what  we  hope  ever  to  do  with  ease  we  must  learn 
first  to  do  with  diligence."  Johnson  himself  employed  the 
Umx  lilorem,  on  The  Rtmblfr  to  in  extent  almost  incredible, 
ind,  aoeording  toBoswell  unknown  in  the  innils  of  littrature. 
Dr  Nash  remarks  that  it  is  more  difficult  and  requires  a 
greatei  mastery  of  art,  in  painting  to  foresh  rten  a  figure  ex- 
actly than  to  dnw  three  dt  their  just  length,  so  it  la  more 
difficult  m  writing,  to  express  any  thing  natunlly  and  briefly 
than  to  enlarge  and  dilate 

And  therafora  a  judinoua  mittor's  Mots 

lie  moro  mgonious  thaD  h  a  first  free  thouglits. 

Ttna  having  "poke  tho  illa^tr  oos  chief  of  Troy 

Extendi  hit  eager  orma  lo  embraoB  his  hoy, 

lovely 

8tretoh9d"hi3  fond  arms  to  eeise  the  beaitlemts  boji 

jng  crying  to 


Soarad  at  the  d 

lazling  helm  and  node 
each  kind 

ng 

"With  eilcnt  pie 

sura  the  fond  parent  sn 

ilei 

And  Hectot  hasted  to  telievo  his  chili 

The  glittering 

. 

Hia  radiant  hdmtt  from  his  broiia  uiA 

on  lie  grnand  he 

Arui  ™  the  grou 

«d  the  glilleriog  terror 

plae 

rf. 

And  placed  the 

•■adiant  helmet  on  the 

Thea  >ei«ed  <ie 

loj,  and  raising  Mm  in 

mr 

lifting 

Then,  fmdlivg 

in  hi8  ormP  hia  infont 

heir 

Thoa  lo  the  gods  addreesed  a  dither's  prayer : 


lyGoogle 


LITER  ARI  ANA. 
glory  fil 


And  all  je  oilier  pon-ers,  proleot  my  son ! 

Like  mine,  thia  mar,  bhoming  j/oUth  with  mery  Ui'rluf  I 

The  skidd  and  glory  of  the  Trojan  jTies  / 
LikenmK,  Ms  valor  mid  hta  jatl  reBoicn, 
Like  mlae,  hia  labart  to'd^eiid  Ac  eroam.  ■ 

tho  Trojona, 
To  guard  iJij  caitatry,  lo  defend  tte  crown  i 
'  Jii  anat  like  me,  hta  eoimtrg'a  war  to  nmi/e, 
Agniflst  tia  eonntrj'B  foes  the  wai  to  nago, 
And  rise  the  Heotor  of  iTie  futnre  age  I 

So  when,  triumphant  from  lie  gtonona  toils. 
Of  beroea  dain  he  benra  the  raeliing  apoils, 
Whole  hosts  may 
All  Trog  ahaU  hail  him,  with  deserveiJ  aeclsim. 

And  ay,  This  chief  tranaeenda  his  father's  fame ; 
While,  pleased,  amidst  the  general  shouts  of  Troy, 
His  mother's  conaeious  heart,  o'erlloffs  ■with  Joy. 
fondly     onhar 

Restored  his  infant  to  her  longing  arms : 

Soft  !"n  her  fraetant  breast  the  babe  she  laid. 


Hushed  i™  to  rest,  and  with  a  amile  anrveyad ; 

passim 
But  soon  the  troubled  pleaauro  mixed  with  risbig  feart 

daahad  with  fear, 
The  tender  pleasure  soon  chastised  by  fear. 
She  minglad  with  the  smile  a  lender  tear. 

Tn  the  established  text  will  be  found  still  further  variations, 
These  are  marked  below  in  Italics  : — 

Thus  haring  spoke,  the  illuatrious  chief  of  Troy 
Stretched  his  fond  arms  to  claap  the  lovely  hoy. 
The  babe  clung  crying  to  his  nurae's  breast, 
Seared  at  tho  dasiling  helm  and  nodding  ereat. 
With  secret  pleaanre  each  fond  parent  smiled. 
And  Hector  halted  to  relieve  hja  child. 


lyGoogle 


Ths  glittering  farrora  from  his  brows  unbound, 
And  plBBed  the  bsamiuj  helmet  on  the  ground; 
Then  /dsaed  Ihe  okild,  and  liftiog  blgh  in  luf, 


Thus  to 

the  gods  pr 

efarred  a  father's 

Otho 

u,  who«  gl 

ryfiUsth'ethere 

And  all 

ye  deathloii 

powers,  prulect 

Grant  h 

topurehasejxist 

To  guard  the  Trojana,  to  defend  the 

Aga-ns 

bia  country 

a  foes  the  war  ti 

Andrie 

of  tlio  future  age 

So  when,  triumphunt  from  suDoesafuI  toila. 
Of  horoos  slain,  he  baara  the  rocking  epoile. 
Whole  hosts  may  bail  him,  with  deBcrvcd  acclaim 
And  Has,  This  dJte/trBnaoanda  his  father's  fame; 
WhUe,  pleasad,  amidst  the  general  ehoufe  of  Troy 
His  mutlier'B  oonsoious  heart  o'er&ows  trilh  Jo;. 
'Re  spoke  and  fondly  gazing  on  her  charms, 
Beetored  Ihe  pleasing  burden  to  het  anna: 
Soft  on  her  fragrant  breast  the  babe  she  laid, 
Hushed  to  repose  and  with  a  smile  anrveyed. 
"■  ibhdpleTsure  aooo  chastised  by  feat. 


8hem 


;led  with  t) 


tender 


POPE  S   VERSIFICATION. 


The  mechatiiui!  structure  of  Pope's  verses  may  be  sbown  by 
omitting  dissyllabic  qualifjing  words,  which  are  comparatively 
ummportant  and  (/inverting  a  ten-syllable  into  an  eight^jllable, 
metre  a^  m  the  folbwing  examples.  Fiiat  read  the  full  teitt, 
as  m  the  orum'il,  and  then  read  with  the  words  in  brackets, 
omitted  — 

AohiUea'  wrath,  to  Oreeoe  the  [direfnl]  spring 
Of  woes  unnumbered,  [Heavenly]  Goddess,  sing! 
That  wrath  which  hurled  to  Pluto's  [gloomy]  retgn 
The  aonla  of  [mighty]  chiefs  untimely  alain; 
Whoso  limbs  unburied  on  the  [naked]  shore, 
Devouring  dogs  and  [hungry]  vultures  tore— 

Now  turn  from  the  Iliad  to  the 


And  now  [unveiled]  the  toilet  atan< 
Eiich  ailvet  vase  in  [mystic]  order  1 
A  [heavanly]  image  in  the  glass  ap' 
To  that  she  benda,  [to  that]  her  eye 


',  of  the  Locht— 

displayed. 


lyGoogle 


LITEIIARIANA. 

The  [infeiior]  prieatesa  at  her  altar's  side, 
[Trembliog]  begins  Che  eiixirBd  rights  of  piide. 
Cuaunlljered  treasures  opa  [at  once],  and  here 
The  [varied]  offerings  of  the  world  appear. 
From  each  she  nicely  culls  irith  [curious]  toil. 
And  decks  the  goddess  with  the  [glittering]  spoil. 


IMPOaTANCB  OF  P 

The  following  passage  occurs  in  Marlowe's  Edviard  II. : — 

MoHvaer  Ji.n.— This  letter  written  hj  a  friend  of  ours. 
Contains  his  death,  yet  hids  them  save  hia  life. 

Fear  not  to  kill  the  iing,  'tia  good  he  dig. 
But  read  it  thus,  and  tbnt's  naother  sense; 

Kill  not  the  king,  'tia  good  to  fear  the  werst. 
Unpointed  as  it  is,  thus  shall  it  go,  Sen. 

Mr,  Collier  appends  the  following  note: — 

Sir  J.  Harington  haa  an  Epigram  [L.  i.,  E.  33]  "  Of  writing  with  double 
pointing,"  which  is  thua  introduoed :— " It  ia  aaid  that  King  Ednard,  of 
Carnarron,  lying  at  Berkely  Castie,  prisoner,  a  cardinal  wrote  to  his 
keeper,  EdaariM-m.  aecidere  noli,  limere  boimm  est,  which  being  read  with 
the  point  at  timere,  it  cost  the  king  Ma  life." 

The  French  have  a  proverb,  Faute  d'un  point  Martin  fer- 
dit  son  ane,  (through  want  of  a  point  [or  Stop]  Martin  lost 
hie  aas,)  equivaJent  to  the  English  sajing,  A  vim  is  as  good  as 
a  mile.  This  proverb  originated  from  the  following  circuni- 
Btanee; — A  priest  named  Martin,  being  appointed  abbot  of  a 
rel^ons  house  called  Asello,  directed  this  inscription  to  be 
placed  over  his  gate  :— 


(Gate,  be  tioa  open,— to  no  honeat  man  be  shut.) 

But  the  ignorant  painter,  by  placing  the  stop  after  the  word 
nuUi,  entirely  altered  the  sense  of  the  verse,  which  then  stood 

The  Pope  being  informed  of  this  uncharitable  inscription,  took 
up  the  matter  in  a  very  serious  light,  and  deposed  the  abbot, 
-His  sueoe^eor,  was  careful  to  correct  the  punctuation  of  the 


lyClOOglC 


LITERARIANA. 


739 


verse,  to  whiot  the  following  line  was  added : — > 

Pro  sola  piiiieta  cs,rait  Martians  Asello. 
(For  a  aingle  stop  Martin  lost  Asello.) 

The  word  Asello  haying  an  equivocal  sense,  signifjing  an 
ass  as  well  as  the  name  of  the  abbey,  its  former  signification 
has  been  adopted  in  the  proverb. 

A  nice  point  has  recently  occupied  the  attention  of  the 
French  courts  of  law.  Mons.  de  M.  died  on  the  27th  of 
February,  leaving  3  will,  entirely  in  his  own  handwriting, 
which  he  eoneludes  thus  r — 

"  And  to  testify  my  affection  for  my 
Henri  de  M.,  I  bequeath  to  each  <i'e? 
detix,  i.e.  two]  hundred  thousand  franca." 

The  paper  was  folded  before  the  ink  1 
writing  is  blotted  in  many  places.  The  legatees  assert  that 
the  apostrophe  is  one  of  those  blots  ;  but  the  son  and  heir-at- 
law  maintains,  on  the  contrary,  that  the  apostrophe  is  inten- 
tional. This  apostrophe  is  worth  to  him  two  hundred  thou- 
sand francs;  and  the  difficulty  is  increased  by  the  fact  that 
there  is  nothing  in  the  context  that  affords  any  clew  to  the 
real  intention  of  the  testator. 

Properly  punctuated,  the  following 
rhyme,  and  is  doubtless  as  true  as  it  is  ourious,  though  a 
now  stands  it  is  very  curious  if  true  : — 

I  saw  a  pigeon  making  bread ; 
I  ean  a  tonel  one  mile  equare ; 


phewa  Charles  and 
[i.e.  0/  a,m]  [0, 


dry,  and  the 


I  saw  a 


■,e  kill  ai 


I  saw  a  bntolie'r  made  of  ateeti 
I  fiaw  a  penknifa  dance  a  reelf 
I  saw  a  saQor  twelve  feet  high ; 
1  saw  11  Iftddei  in  a  pie ; 
I  saw  an  apple  4j  away ; 


lyGoogle 


740  LITERARIANA. 

I  saw  a  puppy  misiDg  grog; 

I  saw  throu  men  who  saw  these  too, 

And  will  oODfitJn  what  I  tell  you. 

The  following  is  a  good  example  of  the  unintelligible,  j 
duced  \>y  the  want  of  pauses  in  their  right  places  :— 

Every  lafly  in  this  Innd 
Hath  twenty  nails  upon  each  hand; 
Jive  and  twenty  on  hands  and  feel^ 
And  this  il  true  without  deceit. 

Punetuatci^  thus,  the  true  meaning  will  at  once  appear  ;— 

Every  lady  in  this  land 

Hath  twenty  nails :  upon  each  baud 


The  wife  of  a  mariner  about  to  sail  on  a  distant  voyage  sent 
a  note  to  the  cjergjman  of  the  parish,  expressing  thefoilowing 

A  husband  going  to  sea,  his  wife  desires  the  prayers  of  the 
oongregatJon, 

Unfortunately,  the  good  matron  was  not  skilled'in  punctua- 
tion, nor  had  the  minister  quick  rision.  He  read  the  note  as 
it  was  written  : — 

A  husband  going  to  see  his  wife,  desires  the  prayers  of  tho 
eongregatloQ. 

Horace  Smith,  speaking  of  the  ancient  Oracles,  says,  "  If 
the  presiding  deities  had  not  been  shrewd  punsters,  or  able  to 
inspire  the  Pythoness  with  ready  equivoques,  the  whole  esta- 
blishment moat  speedily  have  heea  declared  bankrupt.  Some- 
times liey  only  dabbled  in  accentuation,  and  accomplished 
their  prophecies  by  the  transposition  of  a  stop,  as  in  the  well- 
known  answer  to  a  soldier  inquiring  his  fate  in.  the  war  for 
which  he  was  about  to  embark.  Ibis,  REDima.  Nunquam 
IN  HELLO  pehibis.  (You  will  go,  you  will  return.  Never  in 
war  will  you  perish.)  The  warrior  set  off  in  high  spirits  upon 
the  faith  of  this  prediction,  and  fell  in  the  first  engagement, 


lyClOOglC 


LlTEKAItlANA.  T41 

when  Ilia  widow  liad  the  s<itiafaction  of  being  ioformeil  that 
he  should  have  put  the  full  stop  after  the  word  nun^am, 
which  would  probably  have  put  a  full  stop  to  his  enterprise 
and  saved  his  life." 

IMDIAN   HERALDKY. 

A  sanguine  Frenchman  had  so  high  an  opinion  of  the  plea- 
sure to  be  enjoyed  in  tto  study  of  heraldry,  that  he  used  to 
lament,  aa  we  are  informed  by  Meni^e,  the  hard  case  of  our 
forefather  Adam,  who  could  not  possibly  amuse  himself  by  in- 
vestigating  that  science  or  that  of  genealogy. 

A  similar  instance  of  egregious  preference  for  a  favorite 
study  occurs  in  a  curious  work  oa  Heraldry,  published  in  Lon- 
don, in  1682,  the  author  of  which  adduces,  as  an  argument  of 
the  science  of  heraldry  being  founded  on  the  universal  propen- 
sities of  human  nature,  the  fact  of  having  seen  some  American 
Indians  with  their  skins  tattooed  in  stripes  parallel  and  crossed 
(harries).  The  book  bears  the  following  title  : — Introductio  ad 
Latinam  Blasoniam.  Aufhore  .Tohanne  Gibboko  Aymorwm- 
servuJo  que^rt  a  mantilio  diewnt  Cwruho.  The  singular  and 
amusing  extract  appended  is  copied  from  page  156  : — 

The  hook  entitled  Jews  in  America  tells  you  that  the 
sachem  and  chief  princes  of  the  Nuukyganses,  in  New  Eng- 
land, submitted  to  King  Charles  I.,  subscribing  their  names, 
and  setting  their  seals,  which  were  a  bow  bent,  charged 

WITH  AN  ARROW,  A  T  REVERSED,  A  TOMAHAWK  OR  HATCHET 

ERECTED,  such  a  one  home  bakrywiSe,  edge  downward,  and  a 
PAWN.  A  great  part  of  Anno  1659,  til!  February  the  year 
following,  I  lived  in  Virginia,  being  most  hospitably  enter- 
tained by  the  honorable  Col.  E.  Lee,  sometime  secretary  of  state 
there,  and  who  after  the  king's  martyrdom  hired  a  Dutch 
vessel,  freighted  her  himself,  and  went  to  Brussels,  surrendered 
up  Sir  William  Barolaie's  old  commission  (for  the  govern- 
ment of  that  Province),  and  received  a  new  one  from  his  pre- 
sent majesty  (a  loyal  action,  and  deserving  my  commemora- 
tion) :  neither  will  I  omit  his  arms,  being  UrUL.  a  Fes.  ohequy, 


lyClOOglC 


742  LirEBAEIANA. 

OB,  Bl  between  eight  billets  Arc.  being  descended  from 
the  Lees  of  Stropshire,  who  aometimes  bore  eight  billets,  some- 
times ten,  and  sometimes  the  I'esse  Oonterconipone  (aa  I  have 
seen  by  our  offioe-reeords).  I  wili  biaaon  it  thus :  In  Gl-jfpeo  ru- 
tilo  ;  Fasoiam  pluribus  quadratis  auri  et  cyani,  altemis  cequis- 
que  spacits  (ducter  triplid  positis)  con/eclam  et  inter  octo 
Plinthides  argenteas  colhcatam.  I  say,  while  I  lived  in  Vir- 
giniaj  I  saw  once  a  war-danoe  acted  by  the  natives.  The  dancers 
wore  painted  some  party  i>er  pale  Gul,  et  bab.  from  fore- 
head to  foot  (some  party  per  fesse,  of  the  same  colors),  and 
carried  little  ill-made  shields  of  bark,  also  painted  of  those 
colors  (for  I  saw  no  other),  some  party  per  fesse,  some  per 
PALE  (and  some  bahet),  at  which  I  exceedingly  wondered, 
and  concluded  that  heraldry  was  engrafted  naturally  into  the 
sense  of  the  human  race.  If  so,  it  deserves  a  greater  esteem 
than  is  now-a^days  put  upon  it. 

THE   anachronisms   OP   SHAKSPEARE. 

Poets,  in  the  proper  exercise  of  their  art,  may  claim  greater 
license  of  invention  and  speech,  and  far  greater  liberty  of  illus- 
tration and  embellishment,  thaa  is  allowed  to  the  sober  writer 
of  history ;  but  historical  truth  or  chronological  accuracy  should 
not  be  entirely  sacrificed  to  dramatic  efi'ect,  especially  when  the 
poem  is  founded  upon  history,  or  designed  generally  to  repre- 
sent historical  truth.  In  the  matchless  works  of  Shakspeare 
we  look  instinctively  for  exactness  in  the  details  of  time,  place, 
and  circumstance;  and  it  is  therefore  with  no  little  surprise 
that  we  find  he  has  misplaced,  in  such  instances  as  the  follow- 
ing, the  chronological  order /of  events,  of  the  true  state  of 
which  it  can  hardly  be  supposed  he  was  ignorant. 

In  the  play  of  Ooriolanus,  Titus  Lartius  is  made  to  say, 
addre^ing  C.  Maroius, — 

TlioQ  nast  a  soldier,  aron  to  Gala's  wish. 

It  is  a  little  curious  how  Mareius  could  have  been  a  soldier 
to  "  Gate's  wbh,"  for  Mareius,  surnamcd  Coriolanus,  was  ban- 
ished from  Rome  and  died  more  than  two  hundred  years  be- 
fore Cftto's  eyes  first  saw  the  light.     In  the  same  play  Mene- 


lyClOOglC 


LITEEAIIIANA.  743 

urns  says  of  Mareiue,  "He  sits  in  tie  state  as  a  thing  made  for 
Alexander,"  or  like  Alexander.  The  anachronism  made  in 
this  case  is  almost  as  bad  as  that  just  given,  for  Goriolanus  waa 
banished  from  Eome  and  died  not  far  from  B.C.  490,  aod 
Alexander  was  not  born  until  almost  one  hundred  and  fifty 
years  after.  And  the  poet  in  the  same  play  m&kes  still  an- 
other error  in  the  words  which  he  puts  in  the  mouth  of  Mene- 
nius : — "  The  most  soYereign  prescription  in  &alen  is  but  cmpi- 
ricutic."  Now,  as  the  renowned  "  father  of  medicine"  was  not 
born  until  a.d.  130,  of  which  fact  it  seems  hardly  probable 
that  Shakspeare  could  have  been  ignorant  he  has  jvorleajjed 
more  than  biz  hundred  years  fo  intrcd  ice  Galen  to  his  reiders 
In  the  tragedy  of  Julws  Csetar  oecur=i  a  hiatoiieal  inae 
curacy  which  cannot  be  excused  on  the  ground  of  dramitio 
effect.  It  m  lat  be  imputed  to  downright  carelessness  It  is 
itt  the  followi  I-  imes  -^ 


Cassius  and  Brutus  both  must  have  been  endowed  with  the 
vision  of  a  prophet,  for  the  first  striking  clock  was  not  intro- 
duced into  Europe  until  more  than  eight  hundred  years  after 
they  had  been  laid  in  their  graves.  And  in  the  tragedy  of 
King  Lear  there  is  an  inaccuracy,  in  regard  to  spectacles,  as 
great  as  that  in  Julius  Cffsar  respecting  clocks.  King  Lear 
waa  king  of  Britain  in  the  early  Anglo-Saxon  period  of 
EngHsk  history;  yet  Gloater,  commanding  his  son  to  show  him 
a  letter  which  he  holds  in  h's  haadi  says  "Come  let's  see 
if  it  be  nothing  I  shall  not  want  spectaLle"  It  ih  j,enerally 
admitted  that  spectacles  were  not  worn  n  Furope  unt  1  the 
end  of  the  thirteenth  or  the  commencement  of  the  fo  utcenth 
century. 

Shaksjieare  aho  anticipates  in  at  leaat  two  plays  and  1  y 
many  years  the  impuitant  event  of  the  first  use  of  oannw  m 
battle  or  siege  In  his  great  tragedy  of  Macbeth,  he  speaks 
of  cannon  overcharged  with  douUe  cracks  and  Kt  j  John 
says, — 


lyClOOglC 


744  LITERAEIANA. 

Ea  thoa  as  lightning  ia  Iha  eyes  of  PraDoa, 
Por  are  tbou  canM  report,  I  will  be  thara; 
The  thunder  of  my  cannon  Ehalt  bo  hcnrd. 

Canii)n  it  will  be  recollected,  were  first  used  at  Cvessy,  in 
134b  wheieaa  Macbeth  was  killed  in  1054,  and  John  did  not 
begin  to  reign  until  1199.  In  the  Comedy  of  Errors,  the 
SLene  of  wl  i  h  is  laid  in  the  ancient  city  of  Ephesus,  mention 
11  n  ade  of  nKdgm  denominationa  of  money,  as  guilders  and 
ducit      also  of  I  sti'iking  clock,  and  a  nunnery. 

SHAKSPE are's  heroines. 

Euskin  saya; — Shakspeare  has  no  heroes — he  haa  only  hero- 
ines. There  is  not  one  entirely  heroic  figure  in  all  his  plays,  except 
the  slight  sketch  of  Hearj  the  Fifth,  exaggerated  for  the  pur- 
poses of  the  stage,  and  the  still  slighter  Valentine  in  the  Two 
Genilemea  of  Verona.  In  his  labored  and  perfect  plays  you 
have  no  hero.  Othello  would  have  been  one,  if  his  simplicity 
had  not  been  ao  great  as  to  leave  him  the  prey  of  every  base  prac- 
tice around  him;  but  he  is  the  only  example  even  approxima- 
ting the  heroic  type.  Hamlet  is  indolent  and  drowsily  specula- 
tive; Romea  an  impatient  boy.  Whereas  there  is  hardly  a 
play  that  has  no't  a  perfect  woman  in  it,  steadfjst  in  grave  hope 
and  errorless  purpose.  Cordelia,  Desdemona,  Isabella,  Hermione, 
Imogene,  Queen  Katherine,  Perdita,  Silvia,  Viola,  Eosalind, 
Helena,  and  last,  and  perhaps  loveliest,  Virgilia,  are  all  faultless. 

SUAKSPEARE   AND  TYPOaRArHY. 

ITie  great  Cas-ton  authority  in  England— Mr.  William  Blades 
— has  turned  his  attention  to  Shakwpeare,  and  applies  his  know- 
ledge as  a  practical  printer  to  the  poet's  works,  in  order  to  see 
what  aecpaintanco  they  show  with  the  compositor's  art.  The 
result  is  strikii^ly  set  forth  in  a  volume  entitled  "  Shakspeare 
and  Typography."  Many  instance  of  the  use  of  technical  terms 
by  Shakspeare  are  cited  by  Mr.  Blades,  such  aa  the  following : — 

1.  "Come  we  to  fnUpointa  here?    And  areeiceierae  nothing? — 2  Henrg 


lyGoogle 


LITERARIANA.  745 

2,  "  If  a  book  ia  folio,  and  two  pagas  of  type  have  been  composed,  they 

'uoigns'  or  'quoins,'  being  driven  in  at  oppoaifa  aides  to  make  all  tight. 
By  the  four  opposing  coigns 
Which  the  world  together  joina — Parielea,  iii.  1. 

This  is  just  the  description  of  a  form  in  foho,  wHere  two  quoins 
on  one  aide  are  always  opposite  to  two  quoins  on  the  other,  thus 
together  joining  and  tightening  all  the  separate  stamps." 

SnAK%PEAHE  S   SONNETS 

Schlegel  says  that  sufficient  ute  has  not  been  made  of 
Shakspeare's  Sonnets  as  important  materi'ds  for  his  hiography. 
Iiet  ua  see  to  "what  conelusions  they  may  lead  us.  In  Sonnet 
XXXVII.,  for  esample,  ho  says  — 

As  a  dcarepit  father  takea  deliglit 

To  SCO  his  actire  child  do  deeds  of  youtlj, 

So  I,  niiirfe  lame  by  fortune's  dearest  spite, 
Take  all  my  comfort  of  thy  worth  and  tmth. 

And  again,  in  Sonnet  Lxxxix., — 

Say  that  thou  didst  foreake  me  for  some  fault, 


Was  Shakspeare  lame?  "A  question  to  he  asked;"  and 
there  is  nothing  in  the  inquiry  repugnant  to  poetic  justice,  for 
he  has  made  Julius  Ctesal  deaf  in  hia  !eft  ear.  Where  did  he 
get  his  authority  ? 

hamlet's  age. 

Shakspeare's  Hamlet  was  thirty  years  old,  as  is  indicated  by 
the  text  in  Act.  Y.  Sc.  1 ; — 

Ham.  Hon  long  hast  thou  been  a  grava-maket? 

1  Clo.  Ofallthedaya  i' the  je3r,Ioameto'tthatday  that  our  lastKing 
Hamlot  o'croame  Fortiubras. 

Hau.  How  long  is  that  since  ? 

1  Clo.  Cannot  yon  tell  that?  Every  fool  oan  lell  that:  it  was  the  very 
day  that  young  Hamlet  iros  bom:  he  that  ia  mad  and  aent  into  Englund 

03 


lyClOOglC 


ZITERARIANA. 


HAMtET'S  INSANITY. 

It  is  strange  that  there  should  he  any  doubts  wtether  Ham- 
let was  really  pr  feigaedly  insane.  His  assertion  to  the  Queen, 
after  putting  off  Lis  afisumed  tricka  (iii.  4.), 

That  I  eaaentially  am  not  in  madneea, 
itu(  mad  in  craft, 

is  surely  admissible  testimony.  But  he  gives  us  other  evidence 
based  upon  the  difficulty  of  recalling  a  train  of  thought,  an  in. 
variable  accompaniment  of  insanity,  inasmaeh  as  it  is  an  act  in 
which  both  brains  are  concerned.     He  says, — 

And  I  tis  mtttler  will  re-word;  whioli  madness 

There  are  no  instances  of  insanity  on  record,  however  slight 
and  uncognizabie  by  any  but  an  experienced,  inedioal  man, 
where  the  patient,  after  relating  a  short  history  of  his  com- 
plaints, physical,  moral,  or  social,  could,  on  being  requested  to 
reiterate  the  narrative,  follow  the  same  series,  and  repeat  the 
same  words,  even  with  the  limited  correctn^a  of  a  sane  person.*  . 


,  VERSES   TO    HOME,  SWEET   HOME. 

Ill  the  winter  of  1833,  John  Howard  Payne,  the  author  of 
ffome,  Sweet  Horns,  called  upon  an  American  lady,  the  wife 
of  an  eminent  banker  living  in  London,  and  presented  to  her  a 
copy  of  the  original,  set  to  musio,  with  the  two  following  addi- 
tional verses  addressed  to  her  : — 


To  «5,  in 

despite  of  the  ahs 

enoe  of  joors. 

How  BWC 

0  of  ft™.s  still  ap 

pears  I 

•  '•The 

e  was  diso 

rder  in  the  mind- 

a  disturbanoe  of 

tho  intallect,  some- 

e  than  that  ivliioh  he  was 

feigning;  but  if  the  qneation  of  in- 

nity  involTe  the  q 

uesUoH  whether  1 

8  mind  ceased  t 

be  undor  the  mae- 

ry  of  his 

will,  BSBll. 

redly  tlierewas  no 

such  aberration. 

(Eaed'e  Leotflres.) 

Dr.  Job 

furtlior,  deolarine  that  Hamlet  "doej  nothing  whioL 

e  might 

aa'.  haVB  d 

one  with  tlie  rapu 

ation  of  sanity.' 

lyClOOglC 


LITBaARlANA. 
From  BllurcioentB  abroad,  which  1>ul 


Home,  hom 

sweet,  sweet  hom 

There's  n 

place  like  home  1 

There's  n 

place  like  home ! 

r... 

r  exile  is  hleat  with  all  fate  can 

Tihl 

n  oheekered  with  a 

though  diff 

rent  our  fortunes,  o 

Anr 

bolh,  aa  we 

think  of  OolnmbiB 

Home,  horn 

sweet,  sweet  hom 

THE   STBEEOTTPBD'  FALSITIES   OP  HISTORY. 
Thinking  to  amnae  my  father  once,  after  his  rotlrement  from  the  ministry, 
I  offered  to  read  a  book  of  tistory.  -  "Any  thing  but  history,"  said  he;  "for 
history  muat  be  false." —  Walpoliana. 

What  massive  volumes  would  the  reiterated  errors  and  falsi- 
ties of  history  fill,  could  they  be  oolleoted  in  oue  grand  omni- 
ana  !  Historians  in  every  period  of  the  world,  narrowed  and 
biassed  by  surrounding  circumstances,  each  in  his  pent-up  Utica 
confined,  have  lacked  the  fairness  and  impartiality  necessary  to 
insure  a  full  oouvietion  of  tlieir  truthfulness.  Men  not  only 
suffer  tteir  opinions  and  their  prejudices  to.mialead  themselves 
and  others,  but  frequently,  in  the  absence  of  material,  draw 
upon  their  imaginations  for  facts.  Often,  too,  when  sincerely 
desirous  of  presenting  the  truth  so  as  to  "  nothing  extenuate, 
nor  set  down  aught  in  malice,"  the  sources  of  their  informafion 
are  lamentably  deficient. 

The  discrepancies  of  historical  writers  are  very  remarkable. 
If  one  who  had  never  heard  of  Napoleon  were  to  read  Scott's 
Life  of  the  great  military  chieftain,  and  then  read  Abbott's 
work,  in  what  a  maze  of  perplexity  would  he  bo  involved  be- 
tween the  disparagement  of  the  one  and  the  deification  of  the 
other  I  If  one  writer  asserts  that  the  Duke  of  Clarence  was 
drowned  in  a  butt  of  malmsey  in  the  Tower  of  London,  and 
another  derisively  treats  it  as  a  "childish  improbability,"  and 
if  one  expresses  the  belief  that  Richard  of  Gloucester  exerted 
himself  to  save  Clarence,  and  another  that  he  was  the  actual 
murderer,  who,  or  what,  are  we  to  believe  f 


lyGoogle 


748  LITER  AH  I  AN  A. 

Knowing,  as  we  do,  that  modern  history  abounds  with  errova, 
what  are  wo  to  think  of  ancient  history  ?  If  fraudulent  and 
erroneous  statements  can  he  distinctly  pointed  out  in  Hume, 
and  Lingard,  agd  Alison,  how  far  can  we  place  any  reliance 
upon  Ciesar,  and  Herodotus,  and  Xeaophon  ? 

The  monstrous  ahaurditiea  and  incongi-uities  related  of  Xer- 
xes, which  have  descended  to  our  day  under  the  name  of  his- 
tory, are  too  stupendous  for  any  credulity.  The  imposture,  like 
vaulting  ambition,  "o'erleaps  itself."  Sueh  extravagant  de- 
mands upon  our  faith  serve  to  deepen  our  doubt  of  alleged  oo- 
ourrences  that  lie  more  nearly  within  the  range  of  possibility. 
If  it  be  true  that  Hannibal  cut  his  way  across  the  Alps  with 
"fire,  iron,  and  vinegar,"  how  did  he  apply  the  vinegar  I* 

If  falsities  in  our  American  history  can  creep  upon  us  whilst 
f  ui  cje'*  art  open  to  surrounding  evidence,  is  it  to  be  wondered 
at  th  it  there  ire  so  many  contradictions  and  so  many  myths  in 
the  histoiy  of  Etme  ^  Th.e  very  name  America  ia  a  deception, 
a  fraud  nd  a  perpetuation  of  as  rank  injustice  as  ever  stained 
the  annals  ot  hum  in  events.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  time 
Will  yet  crmc  when  Coluinbus  shall  receive  his  due.  When  that 
millenniiJ  d'iy  arrives  which  will  insist  on  calling  things  by 
then  right  names,  the  battle  of  Bunker's  Hill  will  be  called 
(he  bittle  of  Breed  s  Hill. 

It  seems  incredible,  and  it  certainly  is  singular,  that  so.  many 
errors  in  our  history  should  continue  to  prevail  in  utter  defiance 
of  what  is  known  to  be  faet.  Historians,  for  instance,  persist 
in  saying,  and  people  consequently  persist  in  believing,  that  the 
breast-works  of  General  Jackson  at  the  battle  of  New  Orleans 
were  made  of  cotton-bales  covered  with  earth,  whilst  intelligent 
survivors  strenuously  deny  that  there  was  a  pound  of  that  com- 
bustible material  on  the  ground.*     A  well-known  painting  fre- 

*  General  W.  H.  Palfrey,  of  Naw  Orleans,  who  serred  in  Major  Plonfibe's 
batHlion,  wtLiQh  woa  BtBtionod  from  Deo.  2S,  1B14,  to  Jan. '18,  1815,  ia  Iho 
flentre  of  General  Jackson's  .line,  malies  tba  following  stateioent,  (dated  April 
6,  1B59,)  nhich  ia  confirmed  by  Major  Chotard,  General  Jackson's  Assislonl 


lyClOOglC 


749 

quently  copied  by  line-engravers  representa  Lord  Cornwallia 
handing  his  sword  to  General  Washington,  at  the  surrender  of 
Yorktown,  and  this  in  spite  of  the  glaring  fact  that,  to  spare 
.Coinwallis  that  humiliation,  General  O'Haia  gaYc  his  sword  to 
General  Lincoln. 

The  Wood  shed  at  the  battle  of  Lexington  la  commonly  be- 
lieved and  said  to  have  been  the  fir'^t  driwu  m  the  contest  of 
the  Colonists  with  the  opp    ss'  li  f    b     B  '  '  h 

Government    Aside  from   h    B    to    masaa       w      h  d 

March  5  17T0,  it  will  he  d  b  to    h  d 

of  Orange  county,  North  C  h  b  d         m       w 

fjrmed,  ciUed  tho  "Eega  w  h    h         w  ism 

the  extortion  of  Colonel  la  k       h  d     h 

oflici.rs  who  demanded  ill  is      d  d  d 

unauthcrized  taxes    &<,  ,    ha  w        to    h 

house  at  Hilj'iboro,  appiinted  h     m  m  d  Y 

cleik,    fet  up  a  mock    ludg         dp  dm 

niDck  gravity  and  ridicule        h  w        d    fl5  by 

whom  they  felt  themselv 
hu«?e,   barn,  and  out  buii  h        d      w 

the  ground,  dnd  that  flj  T  h  w  h 

small  toree  went  to  supp  R    ul     ra  w  h  w    m 

engagement  toit  plaee  nea    A    m         0      k  b  m 

Hillsboro  to  Salisbury  on  the  16th  of  May,  1771,-— nearly 
f)ur  yeirs  before  the  affair  of  Lexington, — in  which  nine 
EegulatHDrs  and  twentv  seven  militia  were  killed,  and  many 
wounded, — lourtetn  of  the  former  being  killed  by  one  man, 
James  Pugh,  from  behind  a  rock. 


brtt'ures  of  hvo  m  six  batteries  There  were  four  bottsrieB  of  one 
artilloiy  or  bowitier  and  four  of  two  pieces,  established  at  differet 
of  till,  hues  Pour  bales  were  used  at  Borne  of  the  batteries  and  sis  ! 
None  were  used  in  any  other  porlionB  of  tho  works,  which  oonaisted  i 
works  formed  of  earth  thrown  up  from  the  inside,  branohas  of  trees, 
bish.  Each  company  threw  up  ita  own  breastwork;  and  tho  mo 
affeelad  bj  tho  enemy's  arfjllery  and  Congreve  rooliets,  tie  moi 
Iriouslj  tho  soldiers  toiled  to  strengthen  it." 


lyGoogle 


750  LITBRARIANA. 

Tke  progress  of  the  natural  and  physical  sciences,  to- 
gether with  the  increased  fecilities  of  intercommunication  by 
steam,  have  done  much  towards  disproving  and  exposing  the 
fehnlous  stories  of  travelers.  The  extravagant  character,  for 
example,  of  the  assertions  of  Frersoh  and  Darwin  ia  regard  to 
the  nosiouB  emanations  of  the  Bohun  Upas  is  now  shown  by 
the  fact  that  a  specimen  of  ifc  growing  at  Chiewiek,  England, 
may  ho  approached  with  safety,  and  oven  handled,  with  a  little 
precaution.  It  ia  equally  well  established  that  the  fiunous  Poi- 
son Valley  in  the  island  of  Java  affords  the  most  remarkable 
natural,  example  yet  known  of  an  atmosphere  overloaded  with 
carbonic  acid  gas,  to  which  must  bo  referred  the  destructive  in- 
flueuce  upon  animal  life  heretofbre  attributed  to  the  Upas-tree. 

OONFLICTINQ  TESTIMONY   OP  EYE-WITNESSES. 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  in  hia  prison,  was  composing  the  second 
volume  of  his  History  of  the'  World.  Leaning  on  the  sill  of  his 
window,  he  meditated  on  the  duties  of  the  historian  to  mankind, 
when  sudd«uiy  hie  attention  was  attracted  by  a  disturbance  in 
the  court-yard  before  hii  cell  He  saw  one  man  strike  another, 
whom  he  supposed  hy  his  di  ess  to  be  an  officer ;  the  latter  at  once 
drew  his  sword  and  ran  the  formei  through  the  body.  The 
wounded  man  felled  his  adversary  with  a  stick,  and  then  sank 
upon  the  pavement.  At  this  juncf  ire  the  guard  came  up  and 
carried  off  the  officer  maensible  and  then  the  corpse  of  tho 
man  wiio  liad  been  ran  through 

Next  day  Raleigh  was  visited  by  an  intimate  friead,  to  whom 
he  related  the  ciPOumstanceB  of  the  quarrel  and  its  issue.  To 
hia  astonishment,  his  friend  unhesitatingly  declared  that  the 
prisoner  had  mistaken  tlie  whole  series  of  incidents  which  had 
passed  before  his  eyes.  The  supposed  officer  was  not  an  officer 
at  all,  but  the  servant  of  a  foreign  ambassador;  it  was  ho  who 
had  dealt  the  first  blow;  he  had  not  drawn  his  sword,  but  the 
other  had  snatched  it  from  hia  side,  and  had  run  him,  through 
the  body  before  any  one  could  interfere;  whereupon  a  stranger 


lyClOOglC 


LITERARIANA,  751 

from  among  the  crowd  knocked  tie  murderer  down  with  his 
stick,  and  some  of  the  foreigners  belonging  to  the  ambassador's 
retinue  carried  off  the  corpse.  The  friend  of  Ealeigh  added  that 
government  had  ordered  the  arrest  and  immediate  trial  of  the 
murderer,  as  the  maji  assassinated  was  one  of  the  principal 
servants  of  the  Spanish  ambassador. 

"Excuse  me,"  said  BaJeigh,  "but  I  cannot  have  teen  deceived 
as  you  suppose,  for  I  was  eye-witness  to  the  events  which  took 
place  under  my  own  window,  and  the  man  fell  there  on  that  spot 
where  you  see  a  paving-stone  standing  up  above  thq  rest." 
"  My  dear  Raleigh,"  replied  his  friend,  "  I  wae  sitting  on  that 
stone  when  the  fray  toot  place,  and  I  received  this  slight  scratch 
on  my  cheek  in  snatching  the  sword  from  the  murderer,  and 
upon  my  word  of  honor,  you  have  been  deceived  upon  eveiy 
particular." 

Su;  Walter,  when  alone,  took  up  the  second  volume  of  his 
History,  which  was  in  MS.,  and  contemplatii^  it,  thought — 
"  If  I  cftunot  believe  my  own  eyes,  how  can  I  be  assured  of  the 
truth  of  a  tithe  of  the  events  which  happened  ages  before  I 
was  bom  ?"  and  he  flung  the  manuscript  into  the  fire. 

WIT  Ann   HITMOR. 

The  distinction  between  wit  and  humor  may  be  said  to  consist 
in  this,— that  the  characteristic  of  the  latter  is  Niture  jnd  of 
the  former  Art.'  Wit  is  more  allied  to  intellect  and  hum  r  to 
imagination.  Humor  is  a  higher,  finer,  and  more  genial  thing 
than  wit.  It  is  a  combination  of  the  laughable  with  tenderness 
sympathy,  and  warm-heartedness.  Pure  wit  is  often  ill  natured 
andhasaating;  but  wit,  sweetened  by  a  kind  lovmg  expression 
becomes  humor.  Wit  is  usually  brief,  sharp,  epigrammatic,  and 
incisive,  the  fewer  words, the  better;  but  humor,  consisting  more 
in  the  manner,  is  difiiise,  and  words  are  not  spared  in  it,  Carlyle 
says,  "  The  essence  of  humor  is  sensibility,  warm,  tender  fellow- 
feeling  with  all  forms  of  existence;"  and  adds,  of  Jean  Paul's 
humor,  that  "in  Eichter's  smile  itself  a  touching  pathos  may 


lyClOOglC 


752 

lie  hid  too  deep  for  tears."  Wit  may  be  considered  as  the  dis- 
tinctive feature  of  the  French  gemTis,aDd  humor  of  the  English; 
hnfc  to  show  how  difficult  it  is  to  carry  these  distinctions  out 
fairly,  we  may  note  that  England  has  produced  a  Butler,  one  of 
the  greatest  of  wits,  and  France  a  Moli^re,  one  of  the  greatest 
of  humorists.  Fun  includes  all  those  things  that  Ofca^iua  laugh- 
ter which  are  not  included  in  tho  two  former  divisions.  Buffoon- 
ery and  mimicry  come  under  this  heading,  and  it  has  been  ob- 
served that  the  author  of  a  comedy  is  a  wit,  tho  comic  actor  a 
humorist,  and  the  clown  a  buffoon.  Old  jests  were  usually  tricks, 
and  in  coarse  times  we  find  that  little  distinctjon  is  made  between 
joyousness  and  a  mahcious  delight  in  the  misfortunes  of  others. 
Civilization  diseountenanees  practical  jokes,  and  refinement  is 
required  to  keep  laughter  within  bounds.  As  the  world  grows 
older,  fun  becomes  less  boisterous,  and  wit  gains  in  point,  so  that 
we  cannot  agree  with  Cornelius  O'Dowd  when  he  says,  "The 
day  of  witty  people  is  gone  by.  If  there  be  men  clever  enough 
now  d  y   m  rt  things,  they  are  too  clever  to  say  them. 

The  w     d  w  prefers  pladdity  to  briUianey,  and  a  man 

hke  0  rran  ur  present-day  society  would  be  as  unwelcome 
as  a  pyr  hn  wi  h  a  pocket  full  of  squibs."  This  is  only  a 
repcti  an     d  complaint,  and  its  incorrectness  is  proved 

whe  w  find  h  me  thing  said  one  hundred  years  ago.  In 
a  miinuscript  comedy,  "In  Foro,"  by  Lady  Houstone,  who  died 
near  the  end  of  the  last  century,  one  of  the  characters  observes; 
"Wit  is  nowadays  out  of  fashion;  people  are  well-bred,  and 
talk  upon  a  level;  one  does  not  at  present  find  wit  but  in  some 
old  coniedy."  In  spite  of  Mr.  Lever  and  Lady  Houstone,  we 
believe  that  civiliaed  society  is  specially  suited  for  the  display 
of  refined  wit.  Under  such  conditions  satire  is  sure  to  flourish, 
for  the  pen  takes  the  place  of  the  sword,  and  we  know  it  can 
slay  an  enemy  as  surely  as  ateel.  This  notion  owes  its  origin 
in  part  to  ao  error  in  our  mental  perspective,  by  which  we  bring 
the  wit  of  all  ages  to  one  focus,  fancying  what  was  really  lar 
apart  to  have  been  close  together,  and  thus  comparing  things 


lyGoogle 


LITERARIANA.  753 

which  possess  no  proper  elements  of  comparison,  and  placing 
as  it  were  in  opposition  to  each  other  the  accumulated,  broad, 
and  woll-storied  tapestry  of  the  past  with  the  fleeting  moments 
of  our  day,  which  are  but  iU  still  accumulating  fringe.  Charles 
Lamb  will  not  allow  any  great  antiquity  fi)r  wit,  and  apostro- 
phizing candle-light  sa^:'  "This  is  our  peonliai  and  hoiisehold 
planot;  wanting  it,  what  savage,  nnsocial  nights  must  our  an- 
cestors have  spent,  wintering  in  caves  and  uniEumined  fastnesses ! 
They  must  have  laid  about  and  grumbled  at  one  another  m 
the  dark.  What  repartees  could  have  passed,  whan  you  must 
have  felt  about  for  a  smile,  and  handled  a  neighbor's  cheek 
to  be  sure  he  understood  it!     Jokes  came  in  with  candles." 

AM   OLD   PAPER. 

The  most  amusing  and  lemarkable  paper  ever  printed  was 
the  M-ase  Stsfnique,  or  Ehymmg  Gazette  of  Jacques  Loret, 
which,  f  r  fifteen  year"*  fiom  1650  to  1665,'was  issued  weekly 
in  Paris  It  consi'jted  of  550  lerses  summarizing  the  week's 
news  in  rhyme  and  treated  of  every  class  of  subjecla,  grave 
and  gay.  Iiorpt  (.omputed  in  lbb3,  the  thh-teenth  year  of  his 
enterprise  that  be  had  wr  tten  over  300,000  verses,  and  found 
more  than  700  different  Lsordiums,  for  he  never  twice  began: 
his  Gazette  with  thi,  aime  entire  in  matter.  He  ran  about  the 
city  for  his  own  new*  never  filled  to  write  good  verses  upon  it,, 
and  never  had  anybody  to  help  bim,  and  his  prolonged  and  al- 
ways equal  performance  has  been  pronounced  unique  in  the, 
history  of  journalism. 

COMFORT  FOR  BOOK   LOVERS. 

Mr.  Ruslcin  vigoroiKly  defends  the  bibliomaniac,  in  his  Se- 
same  and  LUies.  We  have  despised .  literature.  What  do  we, 
as  a  nation,  care  about  books?  How  much  do  you  think  we 
spend  altogether  on  our  libraries,  public  or  private,  as  compared 
with  what  we  spend  on  our  horses?  If  a  man  spends  lavishly 
on  his  library  you  call  him  mad — a  bibliomaniac.  But  you 
never  call  one  a  horse-maniac,   though   men.  min.  themselves ■ 


lyClOOglC 


754 

every  day  bj  their  horses;  and  you  do  not  hear  of  people  ruin- 
ing themaelves  by  their  books.  Or,  to  go  lower  still,  how  rouoli 
do  you  think  the  conteuta  of  the  book-shelves  of  the  United 
Kingdom,  public  and  private,  wonld  fetch  as  compared  with 
the  contents  of  its  wine-cellars?  What  position  would  its  ex- 
penditure on  literatoie  take  aa  compared  with  ite  expenditure 
on  luxurious  eating?  We  talk  of  food  for  the  mind  as  of  food 
for  the  body;  now,  a  good  book  contains  such  food  inexhaustibly 
■ — it  ia  a  provision  for  life,  and  for  the  best  part  of  us;  yet  how 
long  most  people  would  look  at  the  best  book  before  they  would 
give  the  price  of  a  large  turbot  for  it!  Though  there  have 
been  men  who  have  pinched  their  stomachs  and  bared  their 
backs  to  buy  a  book,  whose  libraries  were  cheaper  to  them,  I 
think,  in  the  end,  than  most  men's  dinners  are.  We  are  few 
of  us  put  to  such  trial,  and  more  the  pity;  for,  indeed,  a  pre- 
cious thing  is  all  the  more  precious  to  us  if  it  has  been  won  by 
work  or  economy;  and  if  public  libraries  were  half  as  costly  as 
public  dinners,  or  books  cost  the  tenth  part  of  what  bracelets 
do,  even  foolish  men  and  women  might  sometimes  suspect  there 
was  good  in  reading,  as  well  as  in  munching  and  sparkling; 
whereas  the  very  cheapness  of  literature  is  makit^  even  wiser 
people  forget  that  if  a  book   is  worth   reading  it   is  worth 

LETTERS   AND   THEIR    ESDINGS. 

There  is  a  large  gamut  of  choice  for  endings,  from  the  official 
"Your  obedient  servant,"  and  high  and  mighty  "Your  humble 
servant,"  to  the  friendly ""  Yours  truly,"  "Yours  sincerely,"  and 
"  Yours  affectionately."  Some  persons  vary  the  form,  and  slight- 
.ly  intensify  the  expression  by  placing  the  word  "yours"  last,  as 
"  Faithfully  yours."  James  Howell  used  a  great  variety  of  end- 
ings, such  aa  "Yours  inviolably,"  "Yours  entirely,"  "Your  en- 
tire friend,"  "Yours  verily  and  invariably,"  "Yours  really," 
"  Yours  in  no  vulgar  way  of  friendship,"  "  Yours  to  dispose  of," 
"Yours  while  J,  H.,"  "Yours!  Yours!  Yours!"  Walpole 
■.writes;  "Yours  very  much,"  "Yours  most  cordially,"  and  to 


lyGoogle 


LITEKAalANA.  755 

Hannah  More,  in  1789,  "  Tours  more  and  more."  Mr,  Erlght, 
some  years  ago  ended  a  controversial  letter  in  the  following 
biting  terms:  "I  am,  sir,  with  wha,tever  respect  is  due  to  jou." 
Tiie  old  Board  of  Commissioners  of  the  British  Navy  used  a 
form  of  aubsoription  very  different  from  the  ordinary  ofB.cial  oiie. 
It  was  their  habit  to  subscribe  their  letters  (even  letters  of  re- 
proof) to  such  ofB-oers  as  were  not  of  noble  femiliea  or  bore  titles, 
"  Your  affectionate  ftiends."  It  is  said  that  this  practice  was 
discontinued  in  conaequenco  of  a  distinguished  captain  addiog 
to  his  letter  to  the  Board,  "  Your  affectionate  friend."  lie  was 
thereupon  desired  to  discontinue  the  expression,  when  he  re- 
plied, "  I  am,  gentlemen,  uo  longer  your  affectionate  friund,' 

STUDIES  AND   BOOKS. 

Studies  serve  for  del^ht,  for  ornament,  and  for  ability.  Their 
chief  use  for  delight  is  in  privateness  and  retiring;  for  orna- 
ment, is  in  diaeourae;  and  for  ability,  is  in  the  judgment  and 
}f  business,  for  expert  men  can  execute  and  por- 
Df  busine^  one  by  one;  but  the  general  counsels, 
and  the  plots  and  marshalling  of  affairs,  come  best  from  those 
that  are  learned..  To  spend  too  much  time  in  studies  is  sloth; 
to  use  them  too  much  for  ornament  is  affectation ;  to  make 
judgment  wholly  by  their  rules  is  the  humor  of  a  scholar; 
they  perfect  nature  and  are  perfected  by  experience,— for  natu- 
ral abilities  are  like  naturfd  plants,  that  need  pruning  by  study ; 
and  studies  themselves  do  give  forth  directions  too  mucii  at 
large,  except  they  be  bounded  in  by  experience.  Crafty  wise 
men  contemn  studies,  simple  men  admire  them,  and  wise  men 
use  them;  for  they  teach  not  their  own  use;  but  that  is  a  wis- 
dom witliont  them,  and  above  them,  won  bj  observation.  Read 
not  to  contradict  and  confute,  nor  to  believe  and  take  for 
granted,  nor  to  find  talk  and  discourse,  but  to  weigh  and  con- 
sider. Some  books  are  to  be  tasted,  othcra  to  be  swallowed, 
and  some"  few  to  be  chewed  and  digested ;  i.  e.,  some  books  are 
to  be  read  only  in  pafts,  others  to  iDe  read,  but  not  curiously, 


lyClOOglC 


756  LITERATI. 

and  some  few  to  be  re^d  wholly  and  with  diligence  and  atten- 
tion. Reading  maketh  a  full  man,  conference  a  ready  man, 
and  writing  an  exact  man ;  and  tlierefore,  if  a  man  write  little, 
he  had  need  ha¥e  a  great  memory;  if  he  confer  little,  he  had 
need  have  a  present  wit;  and  if  he  read  little,  he  had  need 
have  mnoh  cunning  to  seem  to  know  that  he  doth  not. — Lohh 
Bacon. 


Eiteratt. 


ATTAINMENTS    OF  I 

Taking  the  very  highest  estimate  which  has  been  offered 
of  their  attainments,  the  list  of  those  who  have  heen  reputed 
to  have  possessed  more  than  ten  languages  is  a  very  short  one. 
Only  four,  in  addition  to  a  case  that  will  be  presently  mentioned, 
— Mithridates,  Pico  of  Mirandola,  Jonadab  Almanor,  and  Sir 
William  Jones,— are  said  in  the  loos^t  sense  to  have  passed 
the  limit  of  twenty.  To  the  first  two  fame  ascribes  twenty- 
two,  to  the  last  two  twentj-eight,  languages.  Muller,  Nicbuhr, 
Fulgence,  Fresnel,  and  i)erhap3  Sir  John  Bowring,  are  usually 
set  down  as  knowing  twenty  languages.  For  Eljhu  Burritt  and 
Csoma  de  Koros  their  admirers  claim  eighteen.  Renaudot  the 
controversialist  is  said  to  have"  known  seventeen ;  Professor 
Lee,  sixteen;  and  tlie  attainments  of  the  older  linguists,  as 
Arius  Montanus,  Martin  del  Eio,  the  converted  Eabbi  Libettaa 
Cominetus,  and  the  Admirable  Crichton,  are  said  to  have  ranged 
from  this  down  to  ten  or  twelve, — most  of  them  the  ordinary 
languages  of  learned  and  polite  society. 

The  extraordinary  case  above  alluded  to  is  that  of  the  Car- 
dinal Mezzofanti,  the  son  of  a  carpenter  of  Bologna,  whose 
knowledge  of  languages  seems  almost  miracuious.  Von  Zach, 
who  made  an  occasional  visit  to  Bologna  in  1820,  was  accosted 
by  the  learned  priest,  as  he  then  was,  in  Hungarian,  then  in 
good  Sason,  and  afterwards  in  the  Austrian  and  Swabian  dia- 
lects.    With  other  members  of  the  scientific  coros  the  priept 


lyGoogle 


IJTEEATI.  757 

conversed  in  English,  Russian,  Polish,  French,  and  Hungarian, 
Von  Zaoh  mentions  that  his  German  was  so  natural  that  a  cul- 
tivated Hanoverian  lady  ia  the  company  expressed  her  surprise 
that  a  German  should  be  a  professor  and  librarian  in  an  Italian 
university. 

Professor  Jacobs,  of  Gothj,  vas  stru  k  not  only  with  the 
number  of  Einguages  acq  ired  by  the  uterpreter  for  Babel," 
but. at  the  facility  with  wh  ch  ht  [  a  aed  from  one  to  the  other, 
however  opposite  or  cognate  their  structure. 

Dr.  Tholuok  heard  him  c  nverae  in  German,  Arabic,  Spanish, 
Flemish,  English,  and  Swedish,  received  from  him  an  original 
distich  in  Persian,  and  found  hiiQ  studying  Cornish.  He  heard 
him  say  that  he  had  studied  to  some  extent  the  Quichus,  or 
old  Peruvian,  and  that  he  was  employed  upon  the  Bimbarra. 
Dr.  Wiseman  met  him  on  his  way  to  receive  lessons  in  California 
Indian  from  natives  of  that  country.  He  heard  "Nigger 
Dutch"  from  a  Curagoa  mulatto,  and  in  less  than  two  weeks 
wrote  a  short  piece  of  poetry  for  the  mulatto  to  recite  in  his 
rude  tongue.  He  knew  something  of  Chippewa  and  Delaware, 
and  learned  the  language  of  the  Algonquin  Indians.  A  Ceylon 
student  remembers  many  of  the  strangers  with  whom  Mezzofanti 
was  in  the  habit  of  conversing  in  the  Propaganda, — those  whoso 
vernaculars  were  Peguan,  Abyssinian,  Amharic,  Syriae,  Ara- 
bioo,  Maltese,  Tamulic,  Bulgarian,  Albanian,  besides  others 
already  named.  His  facility  in  aecoramodating  himself  to  each 
new  colloquist  justifies  the  expression  applied  to  him,  as  the 
"  chamolion  of  languages." 

Dr.  Iluasell,  Mezzofanti's  biographer,  adopting  as  his  defini- 
tion of  a  thorough  knowledge  of  language  an  ability  to  read  it 
fluently  and  with  ease,  to  write  it  correctly,  and  to'  speak  it 
idiomatically,  sums  up  the  foOowing  estimate  of  the  Cardinal's 
acquisitions ; — 

1 .  Languages  frequently  tested  and  spoken  by  the  Cardinal 
with  rare  excellence, — thirty. 

2.  Stated  to  have  been  spoken  fluently,  but  hardly  sufBcicntly 
tested, — nine. 

3.  Spoken  rarely  and  less  perfectly, — cloven 


lyGoogle 


4.  Spoken  imperfectly;  a  few  sentences  and  conversation al 
forma, — eight. 

5.  Studied  from  books,  bat  not  known  to  have  been  spoken, 


6.  Dialects  spoken,  or  their  peculiarities  understood, — thirty- 
nine  dialects  of  ten  languages,  many  of  which  might  justly  be 
described  as  different  languages. 

This  list  adds  up  one  hundred  and  eleven,  exceeding  by  all 
comparison  every  thing  related  in  history.  The  Cardinal  said 
he  made  it  a  rule  to  learn  every  new  grammar  and  apply  him- 
self to  every  strange  dictionary  that  came  within  his  rea^ih. 
He  did  not  appear  to  consider  his  prodigious  talent  so  extraor- 
dinary as  others  did.  "  In  addition  to  an  escellent  memory," 
said  he,  "  God  has  blessed  me  with  an  incredible  flexibility  of 
the  organs  of  speech."  Another  remark  of  his  was,  "  that 
when  one  has  learned  ten  or  a  dozen  languages  essentially  dif- 
ferent from  ono  another,  one  may  with  a  little  study  and  atten- 
tion learn  any  number  of  them."  Again  he  remarked,  "  If 
you  wish  to  know  how  I  preserve  these  languages,  I  can  only 
say  that  when  I  once  hear  the  meaning  of  a  word  in  any  lau 
guage  I  never  forget  it." 

And  yet  it  is  not  claimed  for  this  man  of  many  words  that 
his  ideas  at  all  corresponded.  He  had  twenty  words  for  one  idea, 
as  he  said  of  himself;  but  he  seemed  to  agree  with  Catharine 
de  Medieia  in  preferring  to  have  twenty  ideas  for  one  word. 
He  was  remarkable  for  the  number  of  languages  which  he  had 
made  his  own,  but  was  not  distinguished  as  a  grammarian,  a 
lexicograplier,  a  philologist,  a  philosopher;  or  ethnologist,  and 
contributed  nothing  to  any  department  of  the  Study  of  words, 
much  le^  that  of  science. 


Eacine  composed  his  verses  while  walking  about,  reciting 
them  in  a  loud  voice.  One  day,  while  thus  working  at  his  play 
of  Mithridates,  in  the  Tuileries  gardens,  a  crowd  of  workmen 
gathered  around  him,  attracted  by  his  gestures  ;  they  took  him 
to  be  a  madman  about  to  throw  himself  into  the  basin.    On  hia 


lyGoogle 


LiTEaATi.  759 

return  home  from,  such  walks  he  would  write  down  scene  by 
scene,  at  first  in  prose,  and  when  he  had  written  it  out,  lie 
would  exclaim,  "  My  tragedy  ia  done  1"  oonaidering  the  dress- 
ing of  the  acts  up  in  verse  as  a  very  small  affair,  Magliabec- 
chi,  the  learned  librarian  to  the  Duke  of  Tuscany,  on  the  con- 
trary, never  stirred  abroad,  but  lived  amid  books  and  upon 
books.  They  were  hia  bed,  board,  and  washing.  He  passed 
eight-and-forty  years  in  their  midst,  only  twice  in  the  course 
of  his  life  venturing  beyond  the  walls  of  Florence,— once  to  go 
two  le^ues  off,  and  the  other  time  three  and  a  half  leaguea,  by 
order  of  the  (Jrand  Duko.  He  was  an  estremely  frugal  man, 
living  upon  eggs,  bread,  and  water,  in  great  moderation.  Lu- 
ther, when  studying,  alwaya  had  his  dog  lying  at  his  feet, — a 
dog  he  bad  brought  from  Wartburg  and  of  which  ho  was  very 
fond.  An  ivory  cnicifii  stood  on  the  table  before  him,  and 
the  walls  of  Ha  study  were  stuck  round  with  caricatures  of  the 
Pope.  He  worked  at  his  desk  for  days  together  without 
going  out;  but  when  fatigued,  and  the  ideas  began  to  stag- 
nate in  his  braia,  lie  would  take  his  flute  or  his  guitar  with 
him  into  the  porch,  and  there  execute  some  musical  fantasy, 
(for  he  was  a  skilful  musioian,)  when  the  ideas  would  flow 
upon  him  as  freah  as  flowers  after  summer's  rain.  Music  was 
his  invariable  solace  at  such  times.  Indeed,  Luther  did  not 
hesitate  to  say  that,  after  theology,  music  was  the  first  of  arts. 
"  Music,"  said  he,  "  is  the  art  of  the  prophets  ;  it  is  the  only 
art  which,  like  theology,  can  calm  the  agitation  of  the  soul  and 
put  the  devil  to  flight."  Next  to  music,  if  not  before  it,  Lu- 
ther loved  children  and  flowers.  The  great,  gnarled  man  had 
a  heart  as  tender  as  a  woman's.  Calvin  studied  in  his  bed. 
Every  morning,  at  five  or  six  o'clock,  he  had  books,  manu- 
scripts, and  papers  carried  to  him  there,  and  he  worked  on  for 
hours  together.  If  he  had  occasion  to  go  out,  on  his  return  he 
undressed  and  went  to  bed  again  to  continue  his  studies.  In 
his  later  years  he  dicta,ted  hia  writings  to  secretaries.  He 
rarely  corrected  any  thing.  The  sentences  issued  complete  from 
his  moutn.  If  he  felt  his  facUity  of  composition  leaving  hiiii, 
Le  forthwith  quitted  hia  bed,  gave  up  writing  and  composing. 


lyGoogle 


760  UIERATI. 

and  went  abrnit  his  out-door  duties  for  days,  weeks,  and  months 
toqtther  But  aa  soon  ■»«  ha  felt  the  inspirttion  fall  upon  him 
a^^in,  he  went  baol.  to  his  bed,  and  his  secretary  set  to  work 
toithwith  Rousican  wrote  hii  works  early  in  the  morning; 
Le  bij^e  ^t  ruid  day  ,  Byioii  at  midnight  VilleLaidoum  rcse 
•it  four  in  the  niorcmg,  lud  wrote  till  late  at  nyht  Aristotle 
WIS  a  tremendous  worker  he  took  httle  sleep,  and  was  con- 
stantly retrenching  it  He  had  a  contiivance  by  which  he 
awoi-e  early,  and  to  awate  was  with  him  to  commence  work.' 
Demo^'thenefe  piwted  thioe  months  in  a  cavern  by  the  searside, 
hbonng  to  oyercome  the  defefts  of  his  voice  There  lie 
re  id,  studied,  dm\  declaimed  Rabelais  composed  his  Life  of 
O-irgantuj  dt  Beilay,  in  the  company  of  Rom'ui  cardinals,  and 
undei  the  eyes  of  the  Bishop  of  Paiis  La  Fontaine  wrote  his 
fables  chiefly  under  the  shide  of  a  tree,  and  sometimes  by  the 
side  of  Kj.i,me  ind  Boileau  Pascal  wrote  most  of  his  Thoughts 
on  little  scraps  of  paper,  at  his  by-momenta  F^nfilon  wrote 
his  Telemachus  in  the  Palace  of  Versailles  at  the  court  of  the 
G-rand  Mouarque,  whan  diseharging  the  duties  of  tutor  to  the 
Dauphin.  That  a  book  so  thoroughly  democratic  should  have 
issued  from  such  a  s  luice  and  been  writton  by  a  pries-t  mi^ 
seem  surprising.  De  (jumcey  first  pitmulgT.ted  hi->  notion  if 
universal  freedom  of  person  and  trade  aai  of  thrtwin^  ill 
taxes  on  the  land, — the  germ,  perhaps,  ot  the  Piench  Revolu 
tion, — in  the  boudoir  of  Madame  de  Pompidour '  Bacon  knelt 
down  before  composing  his  greit  work  and  prayed  ior  light 
from  Heaven.  Pope  never  could  compose  well  without  first 
declaiming  for  some  time  at  the  top  of  his  voice,  and  thus 
rousing  his  nervous  system  to  its  fullest  activity.  The  life  of 
Leibnitz  was  one  of  reading,  writing,  and  meditation.  That 
was  the  secret  of  his  prodigious  knowledge.  After  an  attack 
of  gout,  he  confined  himself  to  a  diet  of  bread  and  milk.  Often 
he  slept  in  a  chair,  and  rarely  went  to  bed  till  after  midnight. 
Sometimes  he  spent  months  without  quitting  his  scat,  where 
he  slept  by  night  and  wrote  by  day.  He  had  an  ulcer  in  his 
right  leg,  which  prevented  his  walking  about  even  had  ho 
wished  to  do  so. 


lyGoogle 


AND   SACEIPIOB 

The  instruction  of  the  world  has  heen  carried  on  by  perpetii'il 
sacrifice,  A  grand  army  of  teachers,  authors,  arti&te  athoo! 
masters,  profeasore.  Leads  of  colleges — have  been  through  agefc 
carrying  on  war  against  ignorance;  hut  no  tnumphal  prnteHiion 
has  been  decreed  to  it,  nor  spoils  of  conquered  irnvmoes  have 
come  to  its  coffers;  no  crown  imperial  has  inceatcd  it  with  pomp 
and  power.  In  lonely  watch-towers  the  fires  of  gcnms  have 
burned,  but  to  waste  and  consume  the  lamp  of  life,  while  they 
gave  l^ht  to  the  world.  It  is  no  answer  to  say  that  the  victims 
of  iotellectnal  toil,  broken  down  in  heaJth  and  fortune,  hive 
counted  thfeir  work  a,  privilege  and  joy.  As  well  deny  the 
martyr's  sacrifice  beoause  he  has  joyed  iu  his  integrity.  And 
many  of  the  world's  intellectual  benefa<!tors  have  been  martyrs. 
Socrates  died  in  prison  as  a  public  malefactor;  for  the  healing 
wisdom  he  offered  his  people,  deadly  poison  was  the  reward. 
Homer  had  a  lot,  so  obscure  at  least,  that  nobody  knew  his 
birthplace;  and,  indeed,  some  modern  critics  are  denying  that 
there  ever  was  any  Homer. 

Plato  traveled  back  and  forth  from  his  homo  in  Athens  to  the 
court  of  the  Syracuse  tyrant,  regarded  indeed  and  feared,  but 
persecuted  and  in  peril  of  life ;  nay,  and  onco  sold  for  a  slave. 
Cicero  shared  a  worse  fats. .   Dante  all  his  life  knew,  as  he 

How  hard  tie  pafb  still  np  and  down  to  tread, 
Aetrangnr's  eCaire." 

Copernicus  and  Galileo  found  science  no  more  profitable  than 
Dante  found  poetry.  Shakspeare  had  a  home,  but  too  poorly 
endowed  to  stand  long  in  his  name  after  he  left  it ;  the  income 
upon  which  he  retired  was  barely  two  or  three  hundred  pounds 
a  year,  and  so  little  did  his  contemporaries  know  or  think  of 
liim  that  the  critics  hunt  in  vain  for  the  details  of  his  private 
life.  The  mighty  span  of  his  largo  honors  shrinks  to  an  obscure 
myth  of  life  in  theatres  in  London  or  on  the  banksof  the  Avon. 


lyClOOglC 


762  LITERATI. 

A   LITERARY   SCIIEW. 

An  Englist  paper  aaya  that  Staron  Turner,  author  of  the 
History  of  Oie  Anglo-Saxons,  who  received  three  hundred 
pounds  a  year  from  G-ovemment  as  a  literary  pension,  wrote 
his  third  volume  of  his  Sacred  Hietory  of  the  World  upon 
paper  whioh  did  not  cost  him  a  farthing.  The  copy  consisted 
of  torn  and  angular  fragments  of  letters  and  notes,  of  covers  of 
periodicals,  gray,  drab,  or  green,  written  in  thick  round  hand 
iver  a  small  print;  of  shreds  of  curling-paper,  unctuous  with 
pomatum  of  bear's  grease,  and  of  white  wrappers  in  which  his 
proofe  had  been  sent  from  the  printers.  The  paper,  sometimes 
as  thin  as  a  bank-note,  was  written  on  both  sides,  and  was  so 
sodden  with  ink,  plastered  on  with  a  pea  worn  to  a  stump,  that 
hours  were  frequently  wasted  in  discovering  on  which  side  of 
it  certain  sentences  were  written.  Men  condemned  to  work  on 
it  saw  their  dinner  vanish  in  illimitable  perspective,  and  first- 
rate  hands  groaned  over  it  a  whole  day  for  tenpeoee.  One  poor 
fellow  assured  the  writer  of  that  paper  that  he  could  not  earn 
enough  upon  it  to  pay  his  rent,  and  that  he  had  seven  moutha 
to  fill  besides  his  own.  In  the  hope  of  mending  matters  in 
some  degree,  slips  of  stout  white  paper  were  sent  frequently 
with  the  proofs ;  but  the  good  gentleman  could  not  afford  to 
use  them,  and  they  never  came  back  aa  oRpy.  What  an  in- 
veterate miser  this  old  scribbler  must  have  been,  notwithstand- 
ing his  pension  and  his  copyrights  ! 

DRYDEN  AND   HIS   POBLISHER. 

When  Dryden  had  finished  his  translation  of  Virgil,  after 
some  self-deliberation,  he  sent  the  MS.  to  Jacob  Tonson,  re- 
quiring for  it  a  certain  gum,  which  he  mentioned  in  a  note. 
Tonson  was  desirous  of  possessing  the  work,  but  meanly  wished 
to  avail  himself  of  Dryden's  necessities,  which  at  that  time 
were  particularly  urgent.  He  therefore  informed  the  poet  that 
he  could  not  afford  to  give  the  sum  demanded.  Dryden,  in 
reply,  sent  the  following  lines  descriptive  of  Tonson : — 


lyClOOglC 


PERSONAL 


And  frowsy  poraa  that  taint  tha  ambient  air. 

When  they  were  delivered  to  Tonson,  he  asked  if  Mr.  Dryden 
had  eaid  any  thing  more.  "Yes,"  answered  the  hearer :  "he 
said,  '  Tell  the  dog  that  he  who  wrote  these  lines  can  write 
more  like  them.'  "     Jacoh  iraiaediately  seat  the  money. 


personal  ^fecttijcs  ani  ^nccUotcs. 


ANECDOTE   OF  1 

DuEiNO  General  Washington's  administration,  he  almost 
daily  attended  his  room,  adjoioiug  the  Benate-ehamher,  and 
often  arrived  before  the  Senate  organized.  On  one  occasion,  but 
before  his  arrival,  Gouverneur  Morria  and  some  other  senators 
were  standing  together,  conversing  on  various  topics,  and, 
among  them,  the  natural  but  majestic  air  of  Grenerai  Washing- 
ton, when  some  one  observed  there  was  no  man  living  who 
could  take  a  liberty  with  him.  The  sprightly  and  bold  Morris 
remarked,  "  I  will  bet  a  dozen  of  wino  I  can  do  that  with  im- 
punity."    The  bet  was  accepted. 

Soon  after,  Washington  appeared,  and  commenced  an  easy 
and  pleasant  conversation  with  one  of  the  gentlemen,  at  a  little 
distance  from  the  others.  While  thus  engaged,  Morris,  stepping 
up,  in  a  jocund  manner,  familiarly  tapped  Washington  on  the 
shoulder,  and  said,— 

"  iiood  morning,  old  fellow  !" 

The  General  turned,  and  merely  looked  him  in.  the  face, 
without  a  word,  when  Morria,  with  all  his  assumed  effrontery, 
stepped  haafily  back,  in  evident  disoompoaure,  and  swd  : — 

"  Gentlemen,  you  have  won  the  bet.  I  will  never  take  such 
a  liberty  again !" 

The  writer  obtdned  this  fa«t  from  a  member  of  the  Senate, 
who  witnessed  the  ooourrenee. 


lyClOOglC 


PERSONAL  SKETCHES   AND   ANECDOTES. 


Shortly  after  Lafayette's  second  return  from  America,  he  was 
at  Versailles  when  the  king  was  about  to  review  a  division  ol' 
troops.  Lafajotte  was  invited  to  join  in  the  review.  lie  was 
dressed  in  the  American  uniform,  and  was  standing  by  the  side 
of  the  Due  de  Condfi,  when  the  king,  in  hia  tour  of  conversa- 
tion with  the  officers,  came  to  him,  and,  after  speaking  on  seve- 
ral topics,  asked  him  questions  about  his  nttiform  and  the  mili- 
tary costume  in  the  United  Stat«i.  The  king's  attention  was 
attracted  by  a  little  medal,  which  was  attached  to  his  coat  in 
the  manner  in  which  the  insignia  of  orders  are  usually  worn  in 
Europe;  and  he  asked  what  it  was.  Lafayette  replied  that  it 
was  a  symbol  which  it  was  the  CTistom  of  the  foreign  officers  in 
the  American  service  to  wear,  and  that  it  bore  a  device.  The 
king  asked  what  was  the  device  :  to  which  Lafayette  answered 
that  there  was  no  device  common  to  all,  but  that  each  officer 
chose  such  as  pleased  his  fancy.  "And  what  has  pleased  your 
fancy  ?"  inquired  the  king.  "  My  device,"  said  the  young 
general,  pointing  to  his  medal,  "is  a  liberty-pole  standing  on  a 
broken  crown  and  sceptre."  The  king  smiled,  and,  with  some 
pleasantry  about  the  republican  propensities  of  a  French  mar- 
quis in  American  uniform,  turned  the  conversation  to  another 
topic.     Cond6  looked  grave,  but  said  nothing. 

NAPOtEON   BONAPARTE. 
The  name  Napoleon,  being  written  in  Greek  characters,  will 
form  seven  different  words,  by  dropping  the  first  letter  of  each 
in  succession  :— 

Na-KoXso>v,  'A-!ZBXia,v,  U6ltwv,  'Oke.«>v,  Aimv,  'E<hv,  'Qv. 

These  words  make  a  complete  sentence,  meaning.  Napoleon, 
the  destroyer  of  whole  cities,  was  the  lion  of  his  people, 

MILTON  AND   NAPOLEON. 

Napoleon  Bonaparte  declared  to  Sir  Colin  Campbell,  who 
had  charge  of  his  peraon  at  the  Isle  of  Elba,  that  he  was  a 
great  admirer  of  Milton's  Paradise  Lust,  and  that  ho  had  read 


lyGoogle 


PERSONAL  BKETCIIES   AND    ANECDOTES,  765 

it  to  some  purpose,  for  that  tte  plan  of  the  battle  of  Austerlitz 
he  borrowed  from  the  sixth  book  of  that  work,  where  Satan 
bringa  his  artillery  to  hear  upon  Michael  and  his  angelic  host 
with  such  direful  effect ; — 


To  hide  the  fraud." 

This  new  mode  of  warfare  appeared  to  Bonaparte  so  likelj  to 
succeed,  if  applied  to  actual  use,  that  he  determined  upon  it^ 
adoption,  and  succeeded  beyond  expectation.  By  reference  to 
the  details  of  that  battle,  it  will  be  found  to  assimilate  so  com- 
pletely witii  Milton's  imaginary  fight  as  to  lea¥e  no  doubt  of 
the  assertion. 

rEEHONAL  APPEARANCE    OT   NAPOLEON. 

Captain  Maitland  giyea  the  following  description  of  the  per- 
son of  Napoleon,  as  he  appeared  on  board  the  Bellero^/toi) ,  in 
1815 :— 

He  was  then  a  remarkably  strong,  well-built  man,  about  ive 
feet  seyen  inches  high,  his  limbs  particularly  well  formed,  with 
a  fine  ankle  and  a  very  small  foot,  of  which  he  seemed  very 
yain,  as  he  always  wore,  while  on  board  the  ship,  silk  stockings 
and  shoes.  His  hands  were  also  small,  and  had  tte  plumpness 
of  a  woman's  rather  than  the  robustness  of  a  man's.  His  eyes 
were  ligLt  gray,  his  teeth  good ;  and  when  he  smiled,  tho  ex- 
pression of  his  countenance  was  highly  pleasing;  when  under 
the  influence  of  disappointment,  however,  it  assumed  a  dark 
and  gloomy  cast.  His  hair  was  a  very  dark  brown,  nearly  ap- 
proaching to  black,  and,  though  a  little  thin  on  the  top  and 
front,  had  not  a  gray  hair  amongst  it.  His  complexion  was  a 
very  uncommon  one,  being  of  a  light  saOow  color,  different 
from  any  other  I  ever  met  with.  From  Ms  being  corpulent, 
he  had  lost  much  of  his  activity. 

HIS   OPINION   OP   SUICIDE. 

In  the  Journal  of  Br.  Warden,  Surgeon  of  the  Northumber- 
land, the  British  frigate  that  conveyed  Napoleon  to  St.  Helena, 


lyGoogle 


766  PERSONAL  SKETCHES  AND   ANECDOTES. 

are  recorded  the  foHowing  remarkable  sentiments  of  the  impe- 
rial prisoner,  as  expressed  to  Warden  :-^— 

In  one  paper,  I  am  called  a,  liar;  in  another,  a  tyrant;  in  a 
third,  amomter)  and  in  one  of  them,  which  I  really  did  not 
expect,  I  am  described  as  a  coward;  but  it  turned  out,  after  all, 
that  the  writer  did  not  accuse  me  of  avoiding  danger  in  the 
field  of  battle,  or  flying  from  an  enemy,  or  fearing  to  face  the 
menaces  of  fate  and  fortune;  he  did  not  charge  me  with  want- 
.  ing  pr^ence  of  mind  in  the  hurry  of  battle,  and  in  the  sus- 
pense of  conflicting  armies.  No  such  thing,  I  wanted  courage, 
jt  seems,  because  I  did  not  coolly  take  a  dose  of  poison,  or  throw 
myself  into  the  sea,  or  blow  out  my  brains.  The  editor  most 
certainly  misunderstands  me :  I  have,  at  least,  too  much  courage 
for  that.  '  , 

On  another  occasion  he  expressed  himaeF  in  the  following 
terms ; — ■ 

Suicide  is  a  crime  the  most  revolting  to  mj  feelings,  nor  does 
any  reason  suggest  itself  to  my  understanding  by  which  it  can 
be  justified.  It  certainly  originates  in  that  species  of  fear 
whiiih  we  denominate  poltroonery.  For  what  claim  can  that 
man  have  to  courage  who  trembles  at  the  frowns  of  fortune  1 
True  heroism  consists  in  being  superior  to  the  ills  of  life,  in 
whatever  shape  they  may  challenge  him  to  the  combat. 

DR.  franklin's   wife. 

Franklin,  in  a  sketch  of  his  life  and  habits,  relate  the  fol- 
lowing anecdote  of  his  frugal  and  affectionate  wife.  A  wife 
could  scarcely  make  a  prettier  apology  for  purchasing  her  first 
piece  of  luxury. 

We  have  an  English  proverb,  that  says, — ■ 

"  He  that  would  tbriva 
Must  ask  hia  nife." 

It  was  lucky  for  me  that  I  have  one  as  much  disposed  to  in- 
dustry  and  frugality  as  myself.  She  assisted  me  cheerfully  in 
my  business,  and  in  stitching  pamphlets,  tending  shop,  purchas- 
ing old  linen  rags  for  the  paper-makers,  &c.     We  kept  no  idls 


lyGoogle 


PERSONAL   SKETCHES  AND   ANECDOTES.  767 

Beryant;  our  table  was  plain  and  simple;  our  furniture  of  tte 
oteapest.  Por  instanoe,  my  breakfast  was  for  a  long  time 
bread  and  mOk  (no  tea),  and  I  ate  it  out  of  a  two-penny  earthen 
porringer,  with  a  pewter  spoon.  But  mark  how  luxury  will 
enter  families,  and  make  a  progress  in  spite  of  principle :  being 
called  one  morning  to  breakfiist,  I  found  it  in  a  china  bowl, 
with  a  spoon  of  silyer,  Tiiey  had  been  bought  for  me  without 
my  knowledge,  by  my  wife,  and  had  cost  her  the  enormous 
sum  of  three-and-twenty  shillings,  for  which  she  had  no  other 
excuse  or  apology  to  make  but  that  she  thought  her  husband 
deserved  a  silver  spoon  and  china  bowl  as  well  as  any  of  liis 
ne'j,hbo  s  Th'a  wa'  the  first  appeirance  of  plate  or  china  in 
oil  h  se  wh  ch  afte  w  da  n  the  course  of  years,  as  our 
wea  h  ncr  asei  ugmenteJ  grid  illy  to  several  hundred 
p       1        ya    e 

S  AJ  R  4N  RE 
la  a  S  t  1  poe  w  n  1"t  ^I  Jo  indr^  some  time  prinr 
to  i  s  anest  as  a  sjy  1  cur  ously  enough,  alludes  to  the 
m  s  of  hu.  own  de  th  A  new  iaj.er  published  soon  after 
lie  I  vol  t  oaary  ^A  ar  ^  ves  s  me  est  ac  s  from  the  poem,  and 
calls  it  a  "remarkable  prophecy.'  Could  the  ill-starred  poet 
and  soldier  have  looked  into  futurity  and  seen  his  own  sad 
end,  be  would  hardly  have  indulged  in  the  humor  which  is  in- 
dicated in  his  poem.  The  piece  was  entitled  "  The  Cow-Chase," 
and  was  suggested  by  the  failure  of  an  expedition  undertaken 
by  Wayne  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  cattle.  Great  liberties 
were  taken  with  tJie  names  of  the  American  officers  employed 
on  the  occasion,— 

And  Prootor  with  his  cannon. 

But  the  point  of  his  irony  seemed  particularly  aimed  at 
Wayne,  wliose  entire  baggage,  he  asserts,  was  taken  along, 
comprising 


lyGoogle 


768  PERSONAL  SKETCHES   AND   ANECDOTES. 

The  satirist  brings  his  doggerel  to  a  close  bj  observing  tbat 
it  is  necessary  to  elieck  the  current  of  hia  satire, — 


AN   ENGLISH   VIEW  or  ANDRE   AND   ARNOLD. 

Many  historians  have  been  inclined  to  blame  Washington  for 
unnecessary  severity  in  not  acceding  to  the  request  of  the  pri- 
soner (Andr^)j  that  ho  might  be  shot  instead  of  hinged  Wo 
cannot  agree  with  them  :  the  ignominions  death  was  de:,idod 
upon  by  Washington — after  much  and  anxious  deliberatjon, 
and  against  his  own  feelings,  which  inchned  to  giant  the 
prayer — as  a  strictly  preventive  puttishment;  and  it  hid  its 
elTect,  The  social  qualities  and  the  letters  of  Andif ,  ilthough 
they  are  always  brought  forward  in  his  favor,  do  not  extenuate 
but  rather  aggravate  his  crime,  as  they  show  that,  whatever  his 
nioral  principles  may  have  been,  he  had  the  education  of  an 
English  gentleman.  If  any  thing,  his  memory  has  been  treated 
with  too  great  leniency.  If  monumettts  are  to  be  erected  in 
Westminster  Abbey  to  men  of  such  lax  morality,  it  is  time  for 
honesty  to  hide  its  head. 

The  conduct  of  Sir  Henry  Clinton,  in  receiving  Arnold  when 
lie  fled  to  the  EngEsh  ranks,  and  giving  him  a  high  command, 
is  only  in  keeping  with  his  countenance  of  the  plot  that  cost 
Andr^  his  life.  Arnold,  who  seems  to  have  been  a  miserable 
scoundrel,  born  to  serve  as  a  foil  to  the  virtuous  brightness  of 
George  Washington,  might  have  redeemed  his  character  by 
givin'  himself  up  in  place  of  Andr6  who  was  entrapped  by 
Ar  old  s  cowarl  e  and  ovei  cant  o  b  it  a  ch  a  piece  of  self- 
B  r  flee  never  entered  his  heid  A  v  11a  n  h  mself,  he  never 
be!  eved  n  the  success  of  the  stmggle  of  hon  st  men^  and  his 
onduct  afte  obtain  g  the  jrote  ton  of  **  r  Henry  Clinton 
pr  ves  th  a  1  ey  n  1  a  doubt  Let  h  m  re  t  w  th  all  his  British 
I  onors  thick  upon  him, — Engl^h  Nme  pape^ 


lyClOOglC 


PERSONAL  SKETCHES  AND  ANECDOTES.  769 

FLAM  STEED,  THE  ASTRONOMER  ROYAL. 

In  the  London  Ghronicle  ftir  Dec.  3,  1771.,  is  tlie  foUowicig 
anecdote  of  Dr.  Flamsteed:— 

He  was  many  jeara  Astronoraer  Royal  at  Greenwich  Ohsor- 
vatory;  a  humoiist,  and  of  warm  passions.  Persons  of  his 
profession  are  often  supposed,  by  the  common  people,  to  be 
capable  of  foretelling  events.  In  this  persuasion  a  poor  washer- 
woman at  Greenwich,  who  had  been  robbed  at  night  of  a 
large  parcel  of  linen,  ia  her  almost  ruin,  if  forced  to  pay  for  it, 
came  to  him,  and  with  great  anxiety  eanieatly  requested  him  to 
use  his  art,  to  let  hfer  know  where  her  things  were,  and  who  had 
robbed  her.  .  The  Doctor  happened  to  be  in  the  humor  to  joke: 
he  bid  her  stay:  he  would  see  what  he  could  do;  perhaps  he 
might  let  her  know  where  she  could  find  them;  but  who  the 
persons  were,  he  would  not  undertake;  as  she  could  have  no 
positive  proof  to  convict  them,  it  would  be  useless.  He  then  set 
about  drawing  circles,  squares,  &c.,  to  amuse  her;  and  after 
some  time  told  her  if  she  would  go  into  a  particular  field,  that 
in  such  a  part  of  it,  in  a  dry  ditch,  she  would  find  them  all 
tumbled  up  in  a  sheet.  The  woman  went,  and  found  thom; 
came  with  great  haste  and  joy  to  thank  the  Doctor,  and  oSered 
him  half-a-crown  as  a  token  of  gratitude,  being  as  much  aa  she 
could  afford.  The  Doctor,  surprised  himself,  told  her:  "Good 
woman,  lam  heartily  glad  you  have  found  your  linen;  but  I 
assure  you  I  knew  nothing  of  it,  and  intended  only  to  joke 
with  you,  and  then  to  have  read  you  a  lecture  on  the  folly 
of  applying  to  any  person  to  know  events  not  in  human  power 
to  tell.  But  I  see  the  devil  has  a  mind  that  I  should  deal 
with  him:  I  am  determined  I  will  not.  Ngver  come  or  send 
iiny  one  to  me  any  more,  on  such  occasions;  for  I  will  never 
attempt  such  an  affair  again  whilst  I  live." 

LORD   nelson's   SANG-PBOID. 

Jack  was  what  they  called  loblolly  boy  on  board  the  Vicfort/. 
It  was  his  duty  to  do  anything  and  everything  that  was  required 


lyClOOglC 


770  PERSONAL  SIiFTfHEs  AMD   ^NEtDurEb 

^from  "iweepma'  aud  washmg  the  deck,  and  saying  amen  to 
the  chaplain,  down  ty  damning  the  guns,  and  hilpmg  the  doc- 
tor to  make  jjilh  ^nd  plasters,  and  mis  mediimPB  Four  dajs 
before  the  battle  that  wiB  so  gloiious  to  England,  hut  so  fetal 
to  its  greatest  hero  Jack  waa  order'  d  by  the  doctor  to  fetch  a 
bottle  that  was  stjndinf;  lu  a  particular  place  Jack  ran  oiF, 
post-haste,  to  thp  spot,  wheie  he  found  wl^at  appeared  to  be  an 
empty  buttle.  Curiosity  was  uppeiniost,  '*What, '  thought 
Jack,  "  can  there  he  about  this  empty  bottle  ?  "  He  ezamined  it 
cprefuMy,  but  could  not  ooniprehend  the  mystery,  bo  he  thought 
that  he  would  call  in  the  aid  of  a,  candle  toi  throw  light  on  the 
subject.  The  bottle  contained  'et?ier,  and  the  result  of  tie 
esamination  was  that  the  vapor  ignited,  and  the  flames  extended 
to  some  of  the  aaHa,  and  also  to  a  part  of  the  ship.  There  was 
a  ^eneidl  confiiaion — running  with  buckets  and  what-not — and, 
to  mike  njattera  wone,  the  hie  was  rapidly  extending  to  the 
powder  m  i^azine  Duiii^  the  hubbub,  Lord  Nelson  was  in  the 
chief  cahin  writing  di'-patthes  His  lordship  heard  the  noise 
. — he  couldn't  do  otherwise — and  so,  in  a  loud  voice,  he  called 
out,  What's  all  that  infernal  noise  ahoutj'  The  boatswain 
answered,  "My  I.oid  the  loblolly  boy's  set  fire  to  an  empty 
hottle,  and  it's  set  fare  to  the  ship  "  "  Oh '"  said  Nelson,  "that's 
all,  IS  it '  I  thought  the  enemy  had  boarded  us  and  taken  us  all 
prisoners — you  and  loblolly  must  put  it  out,  and  .take  care 
WLie  not  blown  up'  but  pray  make  as  little  noise  about  it  as 
you  can,  or  I  can  t  go  on  with  my  dispatches,"  aad  with  these 
words  Nelson  went  to  b.is  de-X,  and  continued  his  writing  with 
the  gieatesit  coolness 

Cnbb  Eobms^n,  m  hia  Dmry,  speaking  of  Gccthe  as  the 
mightiest  intellett  that  has  shone  on  the  earth  for  centuries, 
sajs  "It  his  been  my  rare  good  fortune  to  have  seen  a  large 
proportion  of  the  greatest  mmds  of  our  age  m  the  fields  of  poetry 
and  speculative  phUosophy,  such  as  Wordsworth,  Coleridge, 
SehiUcr,  Tieck,  but  Bcne  thit  I   hne  ever  known  came  near. 


lyClOOglC 


PERSONAL   SKETCHES   AND 


MARTIN   LUTHEE,. 


Roma  orbom  don 
Viribus  ilia  aui 


,  fraudlbi 


,t  illQ, 


latam  iUamqao  uno  qui  dorouit  e  alamo.— EezA. 
(Rome  Bon  tlie  world,  tha  Pope  o'er  Rome  provailed, 
And  one  b;  force  and  one  by  fraud  av^led : 
Greater  than  each  nas  Luthor'B  proneBS  shonn. 
Who  oonqaered  bott  by  one  poor  pen  alone.) 
Liitlier,  in  the  lion-hearted  daring  of  his  oondnot  and  in  tlie  lobnst  and 
rugged  gtandenr  of  His  faith,  may  well  be  conaidered  as  the  Elijai.  of  the 
Reformation  i  while  his  life,  by  the  BterQ  and  solemn  realitieB  of  his  eapeti- 
cnces,  itnd  the  almost  ideal  ovOlutioTie  of  events  by  whioh  it  naa  aeoomiiiinied, 
constitutes  indeed  the  embodied  Poem  of  European  Protestantism, 

R,  MONTHOMESY. 

Heine  sketches  the  following  unique  portrait  of  Luther : — 
He  Wdi  dt  once  a  mystic  dreamer  and  a  man  of  action  Hia 
thoughts  hid  not  only  wings,  they  hid  hands  likewise  He 
•ipoke  and  rare  thing,  he  ilso  a(,ted,  he  was  at  once  the 
t  ne;ue  and  the  swoid  of  his  age  At  the  same  time  he  w^a  a 
cold  acholiatic,  a  chopper  of  woids,  and  an  exilted  j  ropliet 
drunk  with  the  wurd  of  God  When  he  hid  passed  painfully 
through  the  day,  wearing  out  his  soul  in  dogroatieal  instrue 
tions  night  come  he  would  t'iLe  his  flute  and,  contemplating 
the  3t\ra  melt  in  melo  lies  and  pious  thoughts  The  same  man 
who  could  abuae  his  adversaries  like  a  fish  fag  knew  also  how 
to  use  soft  and  tender  language,  like  an  amorous  virgin.  He 
was  sometimes  savage  and  impetuous  as  the  hurricane  that 
roots  up  oaks,  then  gentle  and  murmuring  as  the  zephyr  that 
lightly  caresses  the  violets.  He  was  full  of  the  holy  fear  of 
God,  ready  for  every  sacrifice  in  honor  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  he 
knew  how  to  vault  into  the  purest  regions  of  the  celestial 
kingdom  ;  and  yet  he  perfectly  knew  the  magnificence  of  this 
earth :  he  could  appreciate  it,  and  from  his  mouth  fell  the 
famous  proverh  ; — 

Wet  nioht  liebt  Woin,  'Weibor,  nnd  Gesang, 
Der  bleibt  ein  Narr  sein  Lobenlang, 


lyClOOglC 


772  PERSONAL 

In  slort,  he  was  a  complete  man.  To  call  liim  a  spiritualist 
would  be  to  commit  as  great  a  mietate  as  it  would  be  to  call 
him  a  aenflualiat.  What  shall  I  say  more  ?  He  had  something 
about  him  clever,  original,  miraculous,  incoaceivable. 

la  an  ariiole  on  John  de  Wyoliffe,  in  the  North  Brituh  Re- 
vimii,  is  the  following  par^raph  ; — 

Abundant  aa  is  our  historical  literature,  and  fond  as  our  ablest 
writers  have  recently  become  of  attempting  careful  and  vivid 
renderings  ot  the  physiognomies  of  important  historical  per- 
smagea,  we  are  still  without  a  set  of  thoroughly  good  portraits 
of  the  modern  religious  reformers  jf  different  nations,  painted, 
as  they  might  be,  m  series,  so  that  the  features  of  each  may  be 
I  impared  with  those  of  all  the  leat,  Wyeliffe,  Hnss,  Savona- 
rola, Luther,  Zwmgle,  Calvin,  Knos,  and  Oranmer, — all  men 
coming  under  the  same  general  designation, — all  heroes  of  the 
bdme  general  movement,  and  jet  what  a  contrast  of  physi- 
ognomies I  Pre-eminent  in  the  series  will  over  be  Lather, 
the  man  of  biggest  frame  and  largest  heart,  tho  man  of  rich- 
est and  most  original  genius ,  the  great,  soft  fnrious,  musical, 
pliant,  sociable,  kiss-you,  knDck  you  down  G-erman,  None  of 
them  all  had  such  a  tace ,  none  of  them  all  said  such  things ; 
ot  none  of  them  jll  i,an  you  have  such  anecdotes,  such  a  col- 
lection of  ana 

Luther,  says  another  writer,  speaking  of  his  fondness  for 
musio,  was  not  solely  nor  chiefly  a  theologian,  or  he  had  been 
no  true  reformer  As  the  cloistu  had  not  been  able  to  bound 
bis  sympathies,  so  the  contio^ersial  theatre  could  not  circum- 
BUibe  his  honeat  ambition  He  m  whom  the  Italian  head 
was  joined  to  the  German  body  would  not  only  free  the  souls 
ot  men  but  "win  the  hearts  of  womon  and  little  children. 
Much  hid  he  to  feel  proud  of  during  his  busy  life.  It  was  no 
light  thing  to  have  waged  su  cessful  combat  with  the  most 
jowerful  hierarihy  that  the  world  tad  ever  seen,  or  to  have 
held  in  hiB  hands  the  destinies  of  Emope  But  dearer  to  his 
kind  hiart  wis  the  sound  of  hn  own  verses  sung  to  Lis  own 
melodies,  which  rose  from  itreet  anl  market  place,  from  high- 


ly CiOOglc 


PERSONAL  sketches"  AND   ANECDOTES.  773 

way  and  byway,  chanted  by  laborera  going  to  their  daily  work, 
during  their  houra  of  toil,  and  as  they  returned  home  at  even- 
tide. How  would  it  have  gladdened  his  heart  to  ha^e  heard 
these  same  hymns,  two  hundred  years  later,  sung  by  the  miners 
of  Cornwall  and  Glouc^tersMre  1 

"  I  always  loved  music,"  swd  he  :  "  wioso  has  skill  in  this 
art  is  of  a  good  temperament,  fitted  for  all  things."  Many 
times  Ke  exemplified  this  power  in  his  own  person.  When  sore 
perplexed  and  in  danger  of  life,  he  would  drive  awaj  all  gloomy 
thoughts  by  the  magic  of  hia  own  melodies.  On  that  sad 
journey  to  Worms,  wlien  friends  crowded  round  him  and 
sought  to  change  his  purpose,  warning  him,  with  many  tears, 
of  the  certain  death  that  awaited  him, — on  the  morning  of 
that  memorablei  16th  of  April,  when  the  towers  of  the  ancient 
city  appeared  in  sight, — the  true-heaited  man,  rising  in"  his 
ehariot,  broke  forth  with  the  words  and  music  of  that  Marseil- 
laise of  the  Reformation,  Eiii'  feme  Burg  ist  unser  Goil,  which 
he  had  improvised  two  days  before  at  Oppenheim, — the  same 
stirring  hymn  that  Guatavua  Adolphus  and  the  whole  Swedish 
army  sang  a  century  later,  on  the  morning  of  the  battle  of 
Imtaeu  :— 

A  eafe  atrongliold  onr  God  ia  still, 

A  trusty  sbield  and  weapon ; 
He'll  telp  US  clear  from  all  the  ill 

That  hath  us  now  o'ertftkan. 
The  ancient  Prince  of  hell 
Hath  risen  with  purpose  felL 
Strong  mail  of  Brafl  and  poner 
Be  neareth  in  this  hour; 


Full  soon  were  we  down-r 

Mm 

Bnt  for  ua  fights  the  proper 

man, 

■Wiom  &od  himself  hall) 

liddon 

Asi  jB,  Who  ialhia  same? 

CHttisr  JESua  is  his  niimo. 

The  Lord  Sabaotli's  son : 

Ho,  and  no  othor  one. 

Shall  eoaqner  in  the  battle. 

lyGoogle 


PERSONAL   SKETCHES  AND   ANECDOTES, 


Jlot  they  OS 
Then  lat  the  I 
Look  grim  na 


God's  word  for  all  their  craft  aod  fores 

But  epits  of  hell  Ehnll  have  ila  conrse: 

'Tis  written  by  hia  finger. 
And  though  they  lake  onr  lifa, 
Goods,  honor,  children,  nife. 
Yet  is  their  profit  Bmall ; 
These  things  shall  vanisli  all ; 
Tha  Ohnroh  of  God  remaiuetli.'' 

QUEEN   ELIZABETH. 

Queeii  Bess  is  tlius  described  in  Sir  Jolm  Hay  ward's 
An  Dais ; — 

Shee  was  a  lady  upon  wliom  nature  had  bestowed,  and  wel! 
pia«ed,  many  of  her  fayrest  feYours ;  of  stature  ineane,  slender, 
straight,  and  amiably  composed ;  of  such  state  in  her  carriage, 
aa  eyery  motion  of  her  seemed  to  beare  majesty;  herhaire  was 
ittclined  to  pale  yellow,  her  foreheade  large  and  faire,  and 
seeming  seat  for  princely  grace ;  her  eyes  lively  and  sweete, 
but  short-sighted;  her  noso  somewhat  rising  in  the  middest. 
The  whole  compaase  of  her  countenance  somewhat  long,  but 
yet  of  admirable  beauty;  not  so  mucJi  in  that  which  is  termed 
the  flower  of  youth,  as  m  a  most  delip,htfal  compositione  ot 
m«v)esty  and  modesty  in  equall  mixture  Her  vertuea 

were  such  a&  mi^ht  suffice  lo  mate  an  Ethiopui  beiutifull 
which  the  moie  man  knows  lad  un  leistands  the  more  he 
shall  love  and  admiie  Shee  was  of  divine  witt,  as  well  tji 
depth  of  judgment,  a'!  fDr  quick  coneeite  ml  Bpeedy  espedi 
tione;  of  eloquence  as  sweete  in  the  utterance,  as  ready  and 


lyGoogle 


PERSONAL   SKETCHES   AND   ANECDOTES.  775 

easy  to  eome  to  the  utterance;  of  wonderful  knowledge,  lioth 
in  learning  and  aflajrcs;  ekilfull  not  only  in  Latine  and 
Greeke,  butalsoe  in  divera  foraigne  laaguages. 

In  Paid  Heintzner's  Travels,  1598,  is  the  following  descrip- 

She  was  said  to  be  fifty-five  years  old.  Her  ft,ee  was  rather 
long,  white,  and  somewhat  wrinkled;  her  eyes  small,  hlaek, 
and  gracious;  her  nose  somewhat  bent;  her  lips  compressed; 
her  teeth  black  (from  eating  too  much  sugar).  She  had  ear- 
rings of  pearls,  red  hair  (hut  artificial),  and  wore  a  small  crown. 
Her  breast  was  unooyered  (as  is  the  case  with  all  unmarried 
ladies  in  England),  and  round  her  neck  was  a  chain  with  pre- 
cious gems.  Her  hands  were  graceful,  her  fingers  long.  She 
was  of  middle  Bize,  but  stepped  on  majestically.  She  was  gra- 
cious and  kind  in  her  address.  The  dress  she  wore  was  of 
white  silk,  with  pearls  as  large  as  beans.  Her  cloak  was  of 
black  silk,  with  silver  lace,  and  a  long  train  was  carried  hy  a 
marchioness.  She  spoke  English,  French,  and  Italian;  but  she 
knew  also  Greek  and  Latin,  and  understood  Spanish,  Scotch, 
and  Dutch.  Wherever  she  turned  her  eyes,  people  fell  on  their 
knees.  When  she  came  to  the  door  of  the  chapel,  books  were 
handed  to  her,  and  the  people  called  out,  "  God  save  the  Queen 
Kliaaheth!"  whereupon  the  Queen  answered,  "I  thanke  you, 
myn  good  peuple." 

Among  the  spirited  repartees  and  impromptus  of  the  (jueen 
which  have  descended  to  our  time  is  her  ingenious  evasion  of 
a  direct  answer  to  a  theological  question  respecting  the  sacra- 
ment of  the  Lord's  Supper,  On  being  asked  by  a  Popish 
priest  whether  she  aDowed  the  reaJ presence,  she  replied, — 

Christ  WHS  tho  word  that  spake  it ; 
He  took  tlie  bread  and  brake  it; 
And  what  tbat  word  did  make  if, 
That  I  believa  and  take  it. 

lu  ah  old  folio  copy  of  the  Arcadia,  prcsorved  at  Wilton, 
have  been  found  two  interesting  relics, — a  lock  of  Queen 
Elizabeth's  hair,  and  some  lines  in  the  handwriting  of  Sit 
Philip  Sidney,    The  hair  was  given  by  the  queen  to  her  young 


lyClOOglC 


776  PERSONAL   SKETCHES  'AND  ANECDOTES. 

hero,  who  complimented  ter  in  return  as  folldwa ; — 

Hor  inwaid  worth  all  outward  worth  tranaoenda; 

Like  Bparklinggomahef  virtaes  draw  the"  light, 

And  in  her  conduot  ahe  is  always  bright. 

Whan  5lie  imparta  hor  thoughta,  her  words  have  foroa. 

The  date  of  this  exchange  was  1583,  whea  the  queen  was 
forty  and  the  knight  twenty-nine.  Ehzaheth's  hair  is  very 
fioe,  soft,  and  silky,  with  the  undulation  of  water ;  its  color,  a 
fair  auburn  or  golden -brown,  without  a  tinge  of  red,  as  her 
detractors  assert.  In  every  country  under  the  Bun,  sueh.  Iiair 
would  bo  pronounced  beautiful. 


i   OaTHODOXy. 

The  numerous  biographers  of  the  immorbtl  hard  have  said 
little  or  nothing  of  his  religious  character,  leaving  the  in- 
ference that  he  was  indifferent  to  religion  and  earele^  as  to 
the  future.  They  seem  to  forget  such  passages  as  his  beau- 
tiful reference  to  Palestine  in  Kenry  IV.  :— 

Those  holy  fields, 
Over  vfhoae  aorea  waited  those  hlessed  feet 
Whiah,  fourteen  hundred  years  ago,  were  UMled, 
For  onr  advantage,  on  the  bifter  oroaa. 

Shakspeare's  will,  written  two  months  before  hiadeath,  (April, 
1 616,)  is  remarkable  for  its  evangelical  character.    He  says : — 

"First,  I  commend  my  soul  into  the  hands  of  God,  my. 
Creator,  hoping,  and  assuredly  believing,  through  the  mcrite 
of  Jesus  Christ,  my  Saviour,  to  be  made  partaker  of  life  ever- 
lasting; and  my  body  to  the  earth  whereof  it  is  made." 

Nor  should  we  overlook  the  bond  of  Christian  sympathy 
with  his  parish  minister,  Eev.  Richard  ByfioM,  whose  ehuroh 
he  constantly  attended  during  his  retirement  at  Stratford. 

OLIVER   CROMWELL.      . 

The  subjoined  sketch  of  the  person  and  character  of  the 
great  Protector  is  from  a  letter  of  John  Maidstone  to  Gover 


lyClOOglC 


V 

w      b  tth 

fl 

of 

rf,l 

y  1  w  th  th 

se 

.rai 

y 

mjas         t 

t  wirds 

w 

1  ft  1  ttl 

for 

If 

f  wl     ll  th 

IS  a 

te 

1             tow 

d 

;iii- 

PERBllNiL   ^KEHHES    4%D   ANEi  DUTES.  777 

nor  Winthrop,  of  Ounoeeticut,  written  aoun  jftcr  Cromwell's 

Befuit  I  p'ls?  tuTtlier,  pirdon  me  in  trouUing  you  with  the 
character  ot  his  peison,  which,  by  rcdson  of  my  nearness  to 
him,  I  had  opportunity  well  to  observe  Hia  body  was  welt 
compact  and  stiong,  hia  stature  under  six  feet  (I  believe 
about  two  inches),  his  he<id  to  shaped  as  you  might  see  it  a  ' 
storehouse  and  shop,  both  a  vast  treasuiy  of  natural  parts. 
His  temper  esc  d  g  fl  y  II 
it  kept  down  fo    th  t  p    t 

endowments  he  1    d      H    ■wit,      t 
objects  in  dist    ss  t  I 

God  bad  made  h  m      h      t  wh 
any  fear  but  wh  t  was  d       to  hm 
large  proportion    y  t  d  d  h  1 

ferers.     A  larg  1  I  ti     k  h  tl       Id  m  1     It  H  use 

of  olay  than  hiw         Idbl  ifl        toyw       impar- 

tially transmitted  1  th  j  j  d  ced  w  Id  w  11  i  sed 
with  it,  it  would    Id  h  m  to  h  w  ih  d  mali.     that 

number  a  decern  HI     d      d  d    J  mf    tabl       mmu- 

nion  with  his  seed,  as  judicious  persons  near  him  well  ob^eived. 
He  was  that  Mordecai  that  sought  the  welfare  of  his  people, 
and  spake  peace  to  his  seed ;  yet  were  his  temptations  such  as 
it  appeared  frequently  that  he  that  hath  grace  enough  for 
many  men  may  have  too  little  for  himself;  the  treasure  he  had 
being  but  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and  that  equally  defiled  with 
original  sin  aa  any  other  man's  nature  is. 

The  following  newspaper  notices  in  relation  to  Cromwell's 
head  are  interesting : — 

The  curious  head  of  Cromwell,  which  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds 
has  had  the  good  fortune  to  procure,  is  to  be  shown  to  his  ma- 
jesty. How  much  would  Charles  the  First  have  valued  the 
man  thatTtould  have  bioughfhim  Cromwell's  head  ! — ^Septem- 
ber, 1786. 

The  real  embalmed  head  of  the  powerful   and   renowned 


lyGoogle 


778  PERSONAL   SKETCHES   AND   ANECDOTES. 

usurper,  Oliver  Oromwell,  styled  Pvotector  of  the  Conimoti 
wcaltbof  England,  Scotland,  and  Ireland;  with  the  original  dyes 
for  the  medala  struck  in  honor  of  his  victory  at  Dunhar,  &c., 
&c.,  are  now  exhibiting  at  No.  6  in  Mead  Court,  Old  Bond 
Street  (where  the  Battlesnake  was  shown  last  year).  A  genu- 
ine narrative  relating  to  the  acquisition,  concealment,  and  pre- 
servation of  these  articles  to  be  had  at  the  place  of  exhibition. 
— Morning  Ghronicle,  March  18,  1799. 

C  omwell  died  at  Hampton  Court  in  1658,  giving  the 
st  n  t  evidence  of  his  earnest  religious  convictions  and  of 
his  s  noe  tj  as  a  Christian.  After  an  imposing  funeral  pa- 
nt the  body  having  been  embalmed,  he  was  buried  in 
"0  tnunat  .  O''  ^^  restoration  of  the  Stuarta  te  was  taken 
up  a  d  1  J,-  in  Tjburn,  Afterwards  his  head  was  cut  off,  a 
pike  driven  up  through  the  neck  and  skull,  and  exposed  on 
Westminster  Hall.  It  remained  there  a  long  while,  until,  by 
somo  violence,  the  pike  was  broken  and  tie  head  thrown  down. 
Itwas  picked  up  by  a  soldier  and  concealed,  and  afterwards  con- 
veyed to  some  friend,  who  kept  it  carefully  for  years.  Through 
a  succession  of  families,  which  can  easily  be  traced,  it  has- come 
into  the  possession  of  the  daughter  of  Hon.  Mr.  Wilkinson, 
ex-member  of  Parliament  from  Buckingham  and  Bromley. 

The  head  is  almost  entire.  The  flesh  is  black  and  sunkeD, 
but  the  features  are  nearly  perfect,  and  the  hair  still  remains. 
Even  the  large  wart  over  one  of  the  eyes — a  distinctive  mark 
on  his  face — is  yet  perfectly  visible.  The  pike  which  was 
thrust  through,  the  neck  may  still  be  seen,  the  upper  part  of  iron, 
nearly  rusted  off,  and  the  lower  or  wooden  portion  in  splinters, 
stowing  that  it  was  broken  by  some  act  of  violence.  It  is 
known  historically  that  Cromwell  was  embalmed ;  and  no  per- 
son thus  cared  for  was  ever  publicly  gibheted  except  this  illus- 
trious man.  It  is  a  curious  keepsake  for  a  lady;  but  it  is  care- 
fully preserved  under  loek  and  key  in  a  box  of  great  antiquity, 
wrapped  in  a  number  of  costly  envelopes.  And  when  it  is  raised 
from  its  hiding-place  and  held  in  one's  hand,  what  a  world  of 
thought  is  suggested ! 


lyClOOglC 


personal  sketches  and  anecdotes.  779 

pope's  SKTTLL. 
William  Howitt  says  that,  by  one  of  those  acfe  which  neithei 
Boieiice  nor  curiosity  can  excuse,  the  skull  of  Pope  is  now  in 
the  priva,te  collection  of  a  phrenologist.  The  manner  in  which 
it  was  obtained  is  said  to  have  been  this  ; — On  some  occasion 
of  alteration  in  the  church,  or  burial  of  some  one  in  the  same 
spot,  the  coifin  of  Pope  was  disinterred,  and  opened  ki  see  the 
state  of  the  remains.  By  a  bribe  to  the  seston  of  the  time, 
possession  of  the  skull  was  obtained  for  the  night,  ajid  another 
skull  was  returned  instead  of  it.  Fifty  pounds  were  paid  to 
manage  and  carry  through  this  transaction.  Be  that  as  it  may, 
the  skull  of  Pope  figures  in  a  private  museum. 

WICKLIFFe's  ashes. 
The  Council  of  Constance  raised  from  the  grave  the  bones 
of  the  immortal  Wiekliffe  forty  years  after  their  interment, 
burned  them  to  ashes,  and  threw  them  into  a  neighboring 
brook.  " This  brook,"  says  Puller,  "conveyed  his  ashes  into 
Avon,  Avon  into  Severn,  Severn  into  the  narrow  seas,  they  into 
the  main  noean ;  and  thus  the  ashes  of  Wiekliffe  are  the  em 
blem  of  his  docliine,  which  now  is  dispersed  all  the  worJd 
over."  "&o,  saysPoxe,  "was  he  resolved  into  thn,e  elements, 
earth,  fire,  and  waiter  thrnkm;^  theieby  utterly  to  extinguish 
both  thi-  name  and  doctrine  of  Wiekliffe  forevei  But  as  there 
is  no  counsel  against  the  Lord,  so  there  is  no  keeping  down  of 
verity.  It  wdl  spring  and  come  out  of  duat  and  ishes,  a^  ap 
peared  right  well  in  this  man ,  for,  though  they  digged  up  his 
body,  hurnt  his  bones  and  drowned  hi-,  ashes,  yet  the  word  ot 
God  and  truth  of  his  doctrines  with  the  truit  and  success 
thereof,  they  (,ouli  not  burn      Ihty  to  this  diy  lemain 

Cardan,  and  Burttn  the  auth  i  of  the  i.natomy  of  Melon 
choly,  who  were  ftm  us  f  jr  astrological  ikdl,  both  sufiered  a 
voluutirj  dutb  n  erely  fo  vKrifj  thiir  own  pre  JK-tions 


lyGoogle 


PEaSOKAL   SKETOUES   AND 


A  baiiltcr,  aDsious  about  the  rise  or  fall  of  stocks,  came  once 
to  Talleyraud  for  information  reapeoting  the  truth  of  a  rumor 
that  Goorg&  III.  had  suddenly  died,  when  the  etatcsnian 
replied  in  a  confidential  tooe:  "I  shall  be  delighted,  if  the 
iaformation  I  have  to  give  be  of  any  use  to  you."  The  hanker 
waa  enchanted  at  the  prospect  of  obtaining  authentic  intel- 
ligence from  so  high  a  source;  and  Talleyrand,  with  amysterioas 
air,  continued:  "Some  say  the  King  of  England  is  dead; 
others,  that  he  is  not  dead:  for  my  own  part,  I  believe  neither 
the  one  nor  the  other.  I  toll  yon  this  in  confidence,  hut  do  not 
commit  me." 

During  Talleyrand's  administration,  when  the  seals  of  private 
letters  were  not  very  safe,  the  Spanish  Ambassador  complained, 
with  an  espressive  look,  to  that  Minister,  that  one  of  his  des- 
patches had  been  opened.  "Oh!"  returned  the  statesman,  after 
listening  with  profound  attention,  "  I  shall  wager  I  can  guess  how 
the  thing  happened.  I  am  convinced  your  despatch'was  opened 
by  some  one  who  desired  to  know  what  was  inside." 

When  Louis  XVIII,,  at  the  Eestoration,  praised  the  subtile 
diplomatist  for  his  talents  and  influence,  he  disclaimed  the  com- 
pliment, but  added,  what  might  serve  both  as  a  hint  and  a- 
threat:  "There  is,  however,  some  inexplicable  thing  abont  me, 
that  prevents  any  govermnent  from  prospering  that  attempts  to 
set  me  aiide  " 

After  the  Pope  excommunicated  his  apostate  AbbS,  that  un- 
worthy son  of  the  church  wrote  to  a  friend,  saying:  "Come 
and  comfort  me:  come  and  sup  with  me.  Everybody  is  going 
to  refuse  me  fire  and  water;  we  shall  therefore  have  nothing 
this  evening  but  iced  meats,  and  drink  notiiing  hut  wine." 

When  the  A.bbfi  Bupanloup  told  him,  during  his  last  hour, 
that  the  Archbishop  of  Paris  had  said  he  would  willingly  die 
for  him,  the  dying  statesman  eaid,  with  his  expiring  breath: 
"He  might  make  a  better  use  of  his  life." 


lyClOOglC 


PERSONAL   SKETCHES    ANV   ANECDOTES.  781 

He  proposed  that  the  Duchess  de  Berri  should  be  threatened 
for  all  her  strange  conspiououa  freaks,  thus :  "  Madame,  t' 
no  hope  for  jou,  jou  will  he  tried,  condemned,  and  p 

Speaking  of  a  well-known  lady  on  one  occasion,  he  said  e 
phaticallj  :— 

"She  is  insufferable." 

Then,  as  if  relenting,  he  added; 

B  h         V 

]V  CO  ed    im       d        h 

D  p    se     to  ted       rs 

h  d  T-dl         d  rr     US  < 

W  Ohfim  panmi 


POESON. 

A  favorite  diversion  of  Person,  when  among  a  party  of  literary 
men,  was  to  quote  a  few  lines  of  poetry,  and  ask  if  any  of  the 
company  could  tell  where  they  came  from.  He  frequently 
quoted  the  following  lines  without  finding  any  one  able  to  name 
the  author  i — 

For  laws  thiit  are  inanimate. 
And  feci  no  seuBo  of  Iotc  or  hate. 
That  have  no  passion  of  their  own. 
Or  pity  to  ba  wronght  upon, 
Am  only  proper  to  inQioC 


And  'tia  in  orowns  a,  nobler  gem 
To  grant  a  pardon  ttian  condeuitt. 


lyGoogle 


HISTORICAL    MEMORANDA. 

ind  the  Shakapeare  Student  of  a  similar  verse  in 
■-,  (Act  in,  Sc,  2.)  :— 

He  that  the  swora  of  state  would  Ijeai, 
Should  be  hoi;  as  BBYere; 
Pattern  in  himaalf  to  know, 
Graoe  to  staud  and  Tirtne  go   &,c 

The  company  generally  guessed  every  litely  author  i  ut  the 
right  one.  When  conjecture  was  exhausted  Porson  would 
satisfy  curiosity  hy  telling  them  the  ^ines  were  m  Butler's 
Eudihras,  and  would  be  found  in  The  Heifu,  Fi  iitk  of 
Hudibras  to  his  Ladi/,  which  few  [  >-ople  cvei  did  r^^ad  and  no 
one  now  thinke  of  reading. 


I^istorical  JWemoraiiaa. 


THE   FIRST   BLOOD   SHED   IN   0 

The  "First'Bloodof  the  Revolution"  is  commonly  supposed 
to  have  heen  shed  at  Lexington,  April  19,  ITTS;  hut  West- 
minster, Vt.,  files  a  prior  claim  in  favor  of  one  WDliam  French, 
who  it  is  asserted  was  killed  on  the  night  of  March  13,  1775, 
at  the  Kings  courf-houae,  in  what  is  now  Westminster.  At 
that  time  Vermont  was  a  part  of  New  York,  and  the  King's 
court  ofE-oers,  together  with  a  hody  of  troops,  were  sent  on  to 
Westminster  to  hold  the  usual  session  of  the  court.  The  people, 
however,  were  exasperated,  and  assemhled  in  the  courtrhouse 
to  resist.  A  little  before  midnight  the  troops  of  George  the 
Third  advanced  and  fired  indiscriminately  upon  the  crowd,  in- 
stantly  killing  William  French,  whose  head  was  pierced  by  a 
musket  ball.  He  was  buried  in  the  churchyard,  and  a  stone 
erected  to  his  memory,  with  this  quaint  inscription  i — 

"  In  Memory  of  William  French,  Who  Was  Shot  at  Westminstot  March 
ye  12th,  1776,  by  the  hand  ot  the  Cruel  Ministerial  tools  of  Geotg  je  3rd 
at  the  Courthouse  at  11  o'clooi  at  Might  in  the  22d  year  of  bis  ago. 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL   MKMORANDA. 


Here  -WiUia 

m  French  hi 

Body  lies, 

For  Murder 

hia  Blood  fo 

Vengeiuico 

■.Ym. 

King  Georg 

the  third  hi 

Tory  crew 

that  with  a 

)8wl  hia  head  Shot  threw 

For  Liliertj 

and  hiB  Cou 

trja  Giiod 

he  LoBt  liiB 

Life  hia  Dea 

eat  hlood." 

THE   "TEA-PARTY      AND   THE   "tBA-BUENINQ. 

The  world  has  rung  with  the  story  of  the  "Boston  tea- 
party,"  how  in  the  darkness  of  night  certain  men  disguised  as. 
Indians  threw  overheard  the  cargo  which,  horo  the  obnoxious 
duty,  and  kept  their  secret  so  well  that  even  their  own  families 
were  not  trusted  with  it.  It  was  a  resolute  and  patriotic  act, 
and  answered  its  purpose.  Eut  why  all  the  darkness,  the  dis- 
guise and  mystery  ?  Because  the  number  of  those  who  opposed 
the  act,  either  from  loyalty  to  Great  Britain,  fmm  timidity,  or 
from  pecuniary  interest  in  the  cajgo,  was  so  great,  that  only  hy 
such,  means  could  the  deed  be  done  and  the  doers  of  it  escape 
punishment. 

,  How  does  this  compare  with  the  "  tea-bnimng"  in  Annapolis 
in  the  same  year?  Here  the  course  to  he  taken  was  publicly 
and  calmly  discussed  in  open  assembly ;  the  resolution  arrived 
at  was  openly  announced,  and  carried  out'  in  the  face  of  day, 
the  owner  of  the  vessel  himself  appljii^  the  torch.  This  was 
the  Maryland  way  of  doing  the  thing;  and  it  may  well  he 
asked  whether  the  calm  judicial  dignity  of  the  procedure,  the 
unanimity  of  sentiment,  the  absence  alike  of  passion  and  of 
concealment,  are  not  far  worthier  of  commemoration  and  ad- 
miration than  the  act  of  men  who,  even  for  a  patriotic  j,Tirpose, 
had  to  assume  the  garb  of  conspirators  and  do  a  deed  of 
darkness. 

The  local  historians  thus  tel!  the  story  ■.-r 

On  the  14th  of  October,  the  brig  Peggy  Stewart  arrived  at 
Annapolis,  having  in  its  cargo  a  few  packages  of  tea.  The 
duty  was  paid  by  the  owner  of  the  vessel.  The  people  were 
outraged  at  the  attempt  to  fix  upon  them  the  badge  of  servi- 
tude, by  the  payment  of  the  tax. 


lyClOOglC 


784  HISTORICAI.   MEMORANDA. 

A  moeting  was  held,  at  which  it  was  determined  that  the 
tea  should  not  be  landed.  The  owner,  fearmg  further  tcouhle, 
proposed  to  destroy  the  tea.  But  that  was  not  sufficient  pun- 
ishment. The  ofienoe  was  a  grave  one,  for  had  this  attempt 
succeeded,  it  would  have  been  followed  by  others  more  a^res- 
sive,  and  thus  the  very  priueiple  which  was  contended  for 
would  have  been  overthrown  in  fclie  end.  It  was  the  head  of 
the  ugly  beast'  that  was  thrust  in  the  door,  and  it  must  not 
only  be  pui  out,  but  driven  out  by  blows,  lest  growing  bold, 
it  should  push  its  whole  body  in. 

After  much  discussion  it  was  proposed  to  bum  the  vessel. 
The  meeting  did  not  consent  to  this,  but  many  expressed  theii- 
determmation  to  raise  a  force  to  aecomplish  the  bi^'s  destruction. 

Actmg  under  the  advice  of  Mr.  Carroll  of  Carrnllton,  the 
owuer,  seeing  that  the  loss  of  his  property  was  certain,  and  wil- 
ling to  repair  his  good  name,  even  by  that  loss,  proposed  to  de- 
stroy the  vessel  with  his  own  hands.  In  the  presence  of  the 
assembled  multitude  he  set  fire  to  it,  with  the  tea  on  board, — 
expiatmg  his  offence  by  the  destruction  of  his  property. 

The  striking  features  of  this  fcransaetiou  were  not  only  the 
boldness  with  which  it  was  executed,  but  the  deliberation  and 
utter  carelessness  of  concealment  in  all  the  measures  leading  to 
its  accomplishment. 

It  was  not  until  the  28th  of  November  that  the  Dartmouth 
arrived  in  Boston  harbor,  and  not  until  tho  16th  of  December 
that  protracted  discussion  ended  in  the  overthrow  of  its  cai^o. 
The  tea-ship  sent  to  South  Carolina  arrived  December  2d,  and 
the  tea-ship  to  Philaddphia,  December  25th.  The  cargo  of 
the  former  perished  in  storage;  that  of  the   latter  was  sent 

THE    UNITED    STATES   NAVT- 

A  South  Carolina  correspondent  of  the  American  JRutorical 
Record    writes  as  follows  concerning  the   inoeption  of  tho 

A  few  years  ago,  wliile  looking  over  a  volume  of  manuscript 


lyClOOglC 


HISTOKICAL    MEMORANDA. 


letters  in  the  Charleston  (South  Carolina)  Library,  I  found  a 
leaf  of  coiise  f  olscap  with  the  following  eiidorsemuit:— 


At  a  caucus  m  1794  consisting  of  Izard  Morns  and  Ells- 
worth ot  the  Senate  Ames  Sedgw  dc  Smith  D  lyton,  &c.  of 
the  Reprewntatiies  and  of  feeeretaries  Ilamilton  and  Knox,  to 
form  a  plau  for  a  national  navy  Smith  btgao  the  figuring  as 
Secretary  of  the  meeting  Himilton  then  took  the  pen,  and 
instead  of  mmuting  the  proceedings  he  imused  himself  hy 
making  a  variety  of  flourishes  Jurmg  the  discutMun.  In  eon- 
soquouee  of  tlie  plan  adopted  at  this  meeting,  a  bill  was  reported 
for  building  six  frigates,  which,  formed  the  ttmndation  or  origin 
of  the  American  Navy. 

The  "figuring"  on  the  top  of  the  page  consists  of  five  lines, 
and  is  as  follows  :— 

First  O09t  of  a  frigate,  ii  gans,  of  1,300  tons,  snd 

prorifion  for  Fii  montha.. ...' $150,000 

350  men .j.  61,000 

Provision  for  Bii  montlis- 11,000 

Total $212,000 

Then  follows  an  estimate  of 'the  annual  cost  of  such  a  vessel. 
The  rest  of  the  page  below  these  estimates  is  occupied  by 
hold  flourishes,  which  seem,  if  they  mean  anything,  to  imitate 
a  drawing  of  a  peacock's  tail  "in  its  pride."  Similar  scratching,. . 
but  to  a  less  extent  is  on  the  other  aide  of  the  page. 

The  only  letter  addressed  to  Shatspeare,  which  is  un- 
doubtedly genuine,  is  that  now  in  the  museum  at  Stratford,  from 
liichard  Quinn,  the  actor,  asking  fbra  loan  of  jG20.  This  letter 
is  endorsed  Ti  my  Ifvinge  good  ffriend  and  countreymaii; 
Mr.  WOliam  Shackespere  deliver  Thees."  If  the  writer  spelled 
names  no  better  than  other  words,  this  affords  little  aid  to  the 
solution  of  the  perplexmg  question,  for  notwithstanding  the 
outrageou  fashi  n  in  which  onr  forefathers  spelled-.  English,  he 
idbly  ahead  of  his  age  in  this  respect.' 


lyGoogle 


HIHTOEICAL    MEMORANDA. 


QUAKER   "  MALIONANTS. 


There  has  heeii  discovered  in  Eoston  the  following  letter 
relative  to  William  Penn,  written  "September  ye  15,  1682." 
by  Cotton  Mather,  to  "ye  aged  and  beloved  Mr.  John  Hig- 

ThPFB  bee  now  at  tea  a  ehipps  (foi  our  fiieod  Mr.  Esaiaf  Holoiaft,  of 
London,  did  adyiae  me  by  yo  lait  packet  that  it  wolde  sail  soma  time  in 
Augu-t)  oalled  ye  Weloomo,  R.  Grecnaway,  moBtBr,  which  has  aboard  an 
hundred  or  more  of  ye  beretios  and  malignanta  called  Quakers,  with  W. 
Ponnc,  who  is  ye  ohisf  soumpe  at  ye  hedde  of  them.  Ye  General  Court 
has  accordingly  given  aeoret  orders  to  Master  Malachi  Husett,  of  ye  brig 
Porposse,  to  waylaja  ye  said  Welcome  as  near  the  coast  of  Codde  as  may 
be,  and  make  captive  ye  said  Penue  and  bia  ungodlie  crew,  so  that  ye 
Lord  may  be  glorified  and  not  mocked  on  ye  soil  of  this  new  countrie  with 
ye  heathen  nbrahippe  of  these  people.  Much  spoyl  oon  be  made  by  Belling 
ye  whole  lottc  to  Barbadoea,  where  slaves  fetch  good  prioes  in  rumme  and 
sugar,  and  we  shall  not  only  do  ye  Lord  great  service  by  puniabLiig  ye 
wioked,  but  Ehall  make  great  gnjnc  for  his  ministera  and  people. 

M:iBter  Husett  feels  bopefnl,  and  I  will  set  down  ye  news  he  brings 
when  his  ehippe  comes  back. 

Yours  in  ye  bowels  of  Christ, 


TTON   Mn.T 


AN   AMERICAN 


After  the  downfall  of  Napoleon  I.,  in  1815,  several  young 
Americans  who  suhaeqnently  earned  high  position  as  writers 
^and  statesmen,  among  them  Irving,  Everett,  Ticknor,  Legare, 
and  Preston,  (afterward  Senator  from  South  Carolina,)  went  to 
Europe  for  the  benefit  of  ftireign  travel.  While  abroad,  they 
took  an  opportunity  to  psiy  a  visit  to  Sir  Walter  Soott,  and  Mr. 
Prefiton  relates  that  during  the  evening,  in  the  conrse  of  con- 
versation, Sir  Walter  gave  an  account  of  a  curious  discovery  he 
had  made. 

Not  !ong  after  it  had  been  divulged  who  was  the  author  of 
the  "Waverley  Novels,"  Scott  was  the  Regent's  (afterward 
Geot^e  the  Fourth)  guest  in  the  royal  palace,  where,  one  day, 
the  latter  ordered  the  key  of  a  certain  room  to  be  ^ven  to  the 
great  writer,  saying  that  it  opened  the  door  of  the  Stuart 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL 


Chamber,  where  all  the  papers  coDcerniDg  the  Stuarts  and 
their  pretenders  were  kept.  Geotge  gave  Scott  full  permission 
to  rummage  among  all  these  recorde,  and  to  use  what  he  liked 
for  his  works.  "I  depend  on  your  discretion,"  he  said,  and 
Soott  went.  He  spent  aeveral  dajs  in  this  curious  chamber,  and, 
so  he  told  Preston,  one  day  stumbled' upon  what  seemed  to  him 
a  remarkable  paper.  It  consisted  of  a  caO  and  petition,  by 
Scottish  in  America,  chiefly,  however,  by  the  Gaelic  Scottish 
who  had  a  settlement — "  Baddle-ba^ng "  as  it  is  sometimes 
expressed  in  the  West — in  North  Carolina,  addressed  to  the 
Pretender  (Prince  Charl^  Edward,  grandson  of  James  the 
Second)  as  he  was  then  called,  to  come  to  America  and  assume 
the  crown  of  this  realm 

Thb  question  whether  this  counfry  hail  not  beat  be  turned 
into  1  monarchy  was  senoosly  and  veiy  naturjlly  mooted  m 
the  earliest  days  ot  our  national  existe  ice  but  until  this  s  n 
gotw  reyelation  was  made  it  was  not  known  that  such  apositue 
offer  •»  veiy  stnnge  one  to  say  the  leist   hid  been  made 

THE   STAR'  SPANGLED   BANNER. 

The  followii^  description  of  the  significance  of  the  diffefent 
parts  of  our  national  flag  was  written  by  a  member  of  the  com- 
mittee appointed  by  the  Continental  Congress  to  design  a  flag 
for  the  young  Republic; — 

The  stars  of  the  new  flag  represent  the  new  eonstcUation  of  Stutes  risiug 
in  the  West.  The  idea  was  token  from  the  oonElcllation  of  Lyra,  whioh  in 
the  land  of  Orpheus  signifies  harmonj.  Tho  blue  in  the  field  was  taken 
from  the  edges  of  the  Oovenantar'H  banner,  in  Scotland,  significant  of  the 
league-Qovenant  of  the  United  Colonies  against  oppresBion,  incidentally 
involTing  the  Tirtoes  of  vigilance,  perSBsetanoe  and  jnsdoe.  Tho  stars 
were  diapoBed  in  a  oirole  symboliaing  the  perpetnitj  of  the  Union;  tho 
ring,  like  the  serpent  of  the  Egyptians,  signifying  eternity.  The  tliirteen 
stripes  showed  with  the  stfirs,  the  number  of  the  United  Coloniee,  and 
denoted  the  Bubordination  of  the  Slates  to  the  Union,  as  well  as  equality 
among  themselves.  The  whole  was  the  blending  of  the  various  flags  of 
the  army  and  the  white  ones  of  the  floating  batlaries.  The  red  color, 
whioh  in  Roman  days  was  the  signal  of  defiance,  denoted  daring;  and  tho 
white  purity. 


lyGoogle 


HISTORICAL    MEMOEAND. 


THE   PBENCH   TRICOLOR. 


The  French  tricolor,  so  far  from  being  a  revolutionary  flag, 
is  more  ancient  thaa  the  white  flag,  and  was,  in  fact,  the  flag  of 
the  House  of  Boiwhon.  Cloyia,  when  he  inarched  through 
Tours  to  fight  the  Visigoths,  adopted  as  his  hauner  the  scope 
of  St.  Martin,  which  was  hlue,  and  thus  hine  was,  so  to  speak, 
the  first  French  color.  The  oriflamme,  which  was  the  particniar 
flag  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Denis,  and  was  red,  became  to  a,  certain 
esteot  the  national  flag,  when  St,  Denis  came  under  the  pro- 
tection of  the  kings  of  Prance,  the  kings  still  preserving  their 
blue  flag  studded  with  golden  Jlears  da  lis.  The  white  flag 
(which  was  also  the  banner  of  Joan  of  Arc)  has  in  all  countries, 
and  through  sU  times,  been  the  sign  of  authority.  And  when 
Iiouis  XIV.  destroyed  the  functions  of  the  colonels-general  of 
the  different  corps  that  bore  the  white  standard,  the  color 
became  the  emblem  of  Royal  authority.  Nevertheless,  it  is 
useless  to  dispute  the  feet  that  the  tricolor  took  its  rise  as  the 
badge  of  the  National  Guard  at  the  French  Ecvolution,  and 
that  it  will  be  as  difficult  to  separate  it  from  the  idea  of  revo- 
lution as  to  separate  the  white  flag  from  the  idea  of  legitimacy. 


In  1815  the  French  newspapera  announced  the  departure  of 
Bonaparte  from  Elba,  his  progress  through  France,  and  his  entry 
into  Paris,  in  the  following  manncri — 

March  9.  The  Anthropophagus  has  quitted  his  den. — 
March  10.  The  Corsican  Ogre  haa  landed  at  Cape  Juan. — 
March  11.  The  Tiger  has  arrived  at.  Gap.— March  12.  The 
Monster  slept  at  Grenoble.— March  13.  The  Tyrant  has  passed 
through  Lyons. — March  14.  The  Usurper  is  directing  his  steps 
towards  Dijon,  but  the  brave  and  loyal  Enrgundians  have  risen 
en  masse,  and  surrounded  him  on  all  sides. — March  18.  Bona- 
parte  is    only    sixty   leagues  from    the    eapifal;    he  has  been 


lyGoogle 


IIISTOKICAL   MEMORANDA.  789 

fortunate  enough  to  escape  the  hands  of  his  pursuers. — March 
19.  Bonaparte  is  adyandug  with  rapid  steps,  but  he  wiH  never 
enter  Paris. — -March  20.  Napoleon  will,  fo-morrow,  be  under 
our  ramparts. — March  21.  The  Emperor  is  at  Eontainebleau. — 
March  22.  His  Imperial  and  Royal  Majesty  yesterday  evening 
arrived  at  the  Tuileries,  amidst  the  joyful  acclamations  of  his 
devoted  and  ^ithfui  suhjccte. 

The  Journal  des  Debats,  iu  reference  to  the  escape  from  Elba, 
spoke  of  Napoleon  on  the  9th  of  March,  as  "the  Poltromi  of 
ISlIf."  Oq  the  15th  it  said  to  him,  '■'■  Scourge  of  gtne.rcUwns 
fhoti  shalt  reign  no  more!"  On  the  16th  he  is  "a  Robespierre 
on  JioTseback";  on  thel9tli,"i^e  adv^ttarer  from  Corsica";  but 
on  the  2l8t,  we  are  gravely  told  that  "  the  emferob  has  pur- 
sued his  trimnphal  course,  havimff  found  no  other  miemies  than 
the  nmerahle  Ubek  which  were  vainly  scattered  on  his  pdtJi  to 
impede  his  progress." 

THE   FLIBHT   OP  EUGENIE. 

The  following  particulars  of  the  flight  of  the  Empies-i  of 
France  from  Paris,  in  consequence  of  the  subversion  of  the 
Napoleonic  dytiaaty  by  the  capitulation  of  Sedan,  were  fur- 
nished by  the  late  Bishop  McTlvaine,  of  Ohio,  who  obtained 
^em  from  one  who  aided  the  flight  of  Eugenie,  and  are  there- 
fore stamped  with  the  essentials  of  authenticity. 

The  safety  of  the  Empress  had  been  assured  to  her  by  Gene- 
ral' IVochu,  who  had  solemnly  promised  to  inform  her  of  the 
approach  of  danger.  For  some  unesplained  reasons  he  Med 
to  do  so,  and  when  on  Sunday  the  mob  began  to  assemble  about 
the  Tuileries,  three  of  her  friends,  Prince  Mettemich,  the  Spanish 
Ambassador  and  M.  Lesseps,  formed  a  plan  for  her  escape,  and 
went  to  her  rescue.  M.  Le^eps  stood  outside  and  harangued 
the  mob  for  the  purpose  of  detaining  them,  while  the  two  other 
gentlemen  went  ia  search  of  the  Empress.  They  found  her 
partaking  of  a  very  frugal  lunch  with  one  of  her  ladies,  and 
her  fears  could  not  be  aroused.   Seeing  it  impossible  to  persuade 


lyClOOglC 


790  HISTORICAL   MEMORANDA. 

her,  the  two  gentlemen  used  force  to  remove  her.  At  this  she 
eonaented  to  make  a  alight  preparation,  and  without  at  all 
changing  her  dress,  (for  the  mob  had ,  already  entered  the 
eatehing  up  a  small  leathern  reticule,  she  put  info  it 
irohieft,  and  two  books,  the  New  TestMnent 
and  a  prayer-book.  On  her  head  she  put  a  riding  hat,  and  then 
by  that  time  thoroughly  aroused,  she  fled  through  tko  Palace, 
through  long  corridors,  up  and  down  flighta  of  stairs,  through 
chamber  and  salon,  a  long  diefeince  before  they  came  down  to  the 
Rue  Eivoli,  on  which  side  of  the  Palace  the  mob  had  not  col- 
lected. Here  a  cab  awaited  her.  She,  with  the  lady  in  attend- 
ance, was  put  into  it.  "Now,"  said  the  friends,  "we  muat  leave 
you;  too  well-known,  our  attendance  would  bring  destruction 
upon  you!  Make  good  speed ! "  Yes,  good  speed,  for  she  heard 
the  cries  of  the  furious  mob,  and  aa  she  was  entering  the  cab  a 
little  boy  exclaimed,  "There  ia  the  Empress,"  and  she  thought 
all  was  lost ;  but  it  proved  that  there  was  no  one  there  to  take 
notice,  and  so  the  two  ladies  di-ove  off.  Soon  they  came  into 
the  midst  of  the  excited  crowd,  and  the  lady  accompanying  her 
questioned  on  this  side  and  the  other  the  meaning  of  it  all,  and 
appeared  to  be  lost  in  wonder  at  the  proceedings,  while  the 
Empress  sank  back  out  of  sight  in  the  carriage.  They  had  a 
long  ride  out  beyond  the  Champs  Elysces  to  the  quieter  parts 
of  the  city,  when  they  alighted,  diamiased  the  cab,  to  avoid 
giving  any  clew  in  case  of  pursuit,  and  walked  some  distance. 
Where  should  she  go?  To  whom  flee?  What  friend  trpst? 
There  was  but  one  to  whom  abe  would  venture,  and  that  ono 
vo.  American  gentlemen  of  some  note,  who,  with  his  wife,  bad 
I  ngbetnafriendofbothEmperorand  Empress.  Sothejtook 
mother  cab  for  the  house  of  this  gentleman  (whom  we  will 

(.ill  Mr  W ),  arriving  there  to  find  him  away  from  home, 

ind  his  wife  absent  for  the  summer  at  a  smaB  seaport  on  the 
ciast  The  aervant  under  these  circumstances  was  extremely 
ungracious  and  quite  refused  to  admit  these  strange  ladies,  and 
wh  n  at  last,  upon  their  insisting,  they  were  admitted  to  the 


lyGoogle 


HISTORICAL    MEMORANDA.  701 

Louse,  she  was  uiiwiUing  to  show  them  -into  an  apartment 
suitable  for  them,  and  it  was  not  without  some  difficulty  that 
they  were  allowed  to  wait  in  the  lihrary  for  the  owner's  return. 
When  at  last  he  returned  and  entered  the  room,  judge  of  his 
surprise  at  the  sight  of  the  Empress.  "  You  must  get  me  im- 
mediately out  of  France, — this  very  uight,"  exclaimed  the  Em- 
press the  moment  she  saw  him.  Out  of  France  that  very 
night?  '  He  told  her  it  was  impossible.  He  was  expectii^  a 
party  of  friends  to  dinner,  butwoiUd  plead  sudden  busine^  and 
excuse  himself,  and  make  preparations  as  quickly  as  possible 
for  her  flight;  but,  in  the  meantime  lem  st  be  {uiet  and  reft. 
This  she  was  prevwled  upon  to  do,  and  Buptlyin^  herself  f  om 

Mrs.  W- ^'s  wardrobe,  retired  fo   the  n  ^ht 

The  dinner  party,  receiving  the  ex  uses  f  tl  e  host  and 
overcome  with  a  sense  of  mystery,  s<on  withd  ew  m  tji  te  of 
the  cordial  message  and  wishes  of  the  f,entleman  that  they  would 
make  themselves  merry  in  his  ahsen  e      At  fou    o  lo  k   n  he 

morning  a  carri;^  stood  at  the  door  into    vhich  Mr  W  

put  the  two  ladies,  and,  driving  himself  they  set  off  on  tl  ir 
way  out  of  France,  pursuing  quiet  street's  cunfin  g  1  e  «  rse 
to  unfrequented  roads  and  lanra  of  the  country  and  ay  d  ng 
the  more  public  highways,  until  the  ho  scs  were  w  n  out  They 
were  then  near  a  little  village ;  and  the  £ues  n  irose  how  to 
get  a  carriage  brought  to  them,  and  explu    why  they  c  uld    ot 

go  to  it.     Mr.  W went  to  the  inn  and   haviag  found  a 

private  carriage  which  was  waiting  over  there  agree  1  w  th  the 
servant  to  come  out  a  mile  or  so  and  carry  his  party  Mr. 

W 's  two    sister^r^one  of  whom  was  very  hme  indeed, 

and  could  not  walk  a  step — some  miles  on  till  thej  should 
come  to  a  railway.  This  done  and  the  lame  lady  with  much 
difficulty  put  into  the  carriage  by  her  "brother  ind  sister  " 
they  proceeded  for  a  distance  until  they  came  to  railway, 
where  they  left  the  carriage  to  break  up  the  (.lew  and  rode  a 
short  distance  in  the  rail-car  without  attracting  dttention  Then 
they  took  another  carriage,  riding  in  roundabout  ways  until  it 


lyGoogle 


792  IIISTORICIL   MEMORANDA. 

tlie  end  of  two  days  they  readied  the  little  eeaport  where  Mrs. 

W was  spending  the  summer      How  must  Mr.  W- 

conduct  the  ladies  into  the  presenu  of  his  wife  without  being 
observed  by  every  oni '  Aftir  lome  leoonnoitring,  this  was 
successfully  accotoplishid,  and  throwmg  her   irms  around  the 

neck  of  Mrs.  W Eugenie  exclaun,,d     "You  and  your 

husband  are  tlie  only  fiinnds  left  to  me  in  tke  world."  She, 
with  the   lady  who  accompanied  hir,  loroamed  in  the  room 

of  Mrs.  W ,  lest  seme  one  should  see  aod  recognize  her. 

No  servant  could  be  allowed  to  enter  the  room.     Mrs.  W ■ 

brought  food  to  the  two  ladies  and  served  the  Empress  ia 
eveiything,  who  espostukt«d  at  fie  mconvenienoe  she  was 
cdii&ing  her  Mend,  and  insisted  upon  waiting  upon  herself, 
her  behdvior  being  of  such  a  sweet  character  as  still  more  to 
endear  her  to  her  friends,  who  were  risking  nearly  all  they  pos- 
sessed in  her  canse. 

Their  plan  was  now  to  get  her  across  the  Channel  to  the  Isle 
of  Wight,  and  thence  to  England.  There  were ,  but  two  con- 
veyances in  the  harbor— both  private  yachts — and  only  one  able 
to  get  out  to  sea.  The  owner  of  that  one  flatly  refused  to  take 
the  ladies  over,  hut  at  last,  after  the  identity  of  the  ladies  had 
been  made  known  and  much  pprauaaion  used,  he  consented,  and 
Mr.  W — —  and  the  two  ladies,  with  the  reticule  containing 
two  pocket-handkerchiefs,-  set  out  the  day  after  their  arrival 
in  the  little  seaport  town  on  their  voyage  to  England 

This  is  a  journey  usually  made  in  a  few  hours  but  a  terrible 
storm  arising,  it  was  prolonged  to  twenty  seven  Ihe  same 
night  and  in  the  same  waters  the  over  memorable  vcbsel  the 
6'apfamwent  down-  But  although  the  gentleman  m  command 
lest  all  control  of  himself  and  ship,  they  weathered  the  storm. 

During  this  time  Eugenie  showed  the  most  remarkable  self- 
possession,  and  evidently  looked  upon  death  as  a  relief  fiom  her 
woes.  But  this  was  not  to  be,  and  after  a  passage  fraught  with 
the  niost  imminent  danger,  she  was  landed  on  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
to  find  on  Ei^lish  ground  that  asylum  which  had  been  sought 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL   MEMORANDA.  793 

by  SO  many  fugitive  liefore  her.  And  to  add  to  her  relief,  her 
son,  of  whose  whoreabowte  she  knew  nothing,  was  foiiud  to  he 
in  Hastings,  not  fat  from  her. 

Sueh  is  tlie  true  story  of  Eugenie's  escape  from  Paris  and 
France.  Wliat  a  sad,  sad  tale  of  fiillen  greatness!  How  much 
must  she  haye  suffered  in  those  few  days!  the  fury  of  a 
Paris  mob  in  her  ears;  tlie  fear  of  pursuit  at  her  back;  how 
often  did  she  start,  and  give  herself  up  for  lost!  What 
threatening  meaning  did  many  an  accidental  phrase  assume! 
No  wonder  her  courage  sustained  the  fearful  storm ;  the  thun- 
der and  lightning,  the  waters,  however  dark  and  cold  and  deep, 
would  be  fiir  more  mcroiftil  than  that  dreadftil  mob  that  called 
out  her  name,  the  mob  that  had  shown  no  pity  to  the  little 
child  or  tender  woman,  and  derided  with  the  bitterest  insults 
the  fond  Marie  Antoinette  at  the  guillotine.  Oh,  France! 
when  we  remember  those  days  of  terror,  can  we  wonder  at  this 
retribution  f 


The  following  lines,  suggested  by  the  rise  of  Louis  Napoleon, 
were  written  January  6th,  1853.  The  capitulation  of  Sedan 
occurred  September  1,  1870,  and  the  death  of  the  esile  of 
ChiselhuTst,  .January  9,  1873. 

Tlia  light-hoHBB  that  once  orownod  the  pointed  rook 
Of  Bddystone,  its  bold  inventor  deem'd 
A  work  to  last  for  oentnrioB,  nor  dream'd 

It  nould  Buoouuib  beneath  the  tempest's  shock: 

And,  therefore,  as  if  Providenee  to  mosk, 

He  housed  within  it  when  the  li|chtuing  gleam'd 
Mid  Btorm  and  darkness,  but  when  morning  boom'd. 

Nought  stood  upon  the  bars  and  granite  block! 

Ambition  thus  darea  all,  and  rears  on  high. 
With  the  audaoity  of  human  pride, 

A  pile  that  may  with  Egypt's  wonders  vie; 

Peroeiving  not — jiresnmptnons  bomicida !  — 

The  ministpra  of  wrath,  that  lurking  nigh, 

Will  Bcatler  the  proud  fabrie  fur  and  wide. 


lyClOOglC 


794  HISTORICAL    r 

THE  EMPIRE  IS  PEACE. 

This  memorable  utterance  waa  or^nally  made  at  Toulouse 
im  tlie  autumn  of  1852,  while  Louis  Napoleon  was  feeling  the 
public  pulse  in  the  vineyards  of  Southern  France,  preparatory 
to  re-establishiDg  the  imperial  rigime.  ■  At  the  close  of  a 
splendid  banquet  ^ven  to  him  by  the  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
in  the  Bourse,  the  Priuce-President,  emboldened  by  the  mad 
enthusiasm  of  the  company  present,  suddenly  cast  off  all  reserve, 
and  nue^nivocally  announced  the  impending  change.  "  There 
is  one  objection,"  he  urged  in  vindication  of  his  purpose,  "  to 
which  I  must  reply.  Certain  minds  seem  to  entertain  a  dread 
of  war;  certain  persons  say,  the  Empire  is  only  war.  But  I 
say,  THE  Empieie  la  Peace  (rErhpire  c'cst  la  Pais),  for 
France  desires  it,  and  when  France  is  satisfied  the  world  is 
tranquil." 

,  JEFFERSON  OM    MARIE  ANTOINETTE. 

Mr.  Jefferson's  estimate  of  Mario  Antoinette  is  not  so  favor- 
able as  that  of  some  writers;  for  many  years  after  his  return 
from  France  he  wrote  of  her  thus: — 

,  This  angel,  as  gandily  painted  in  the  rhupaodies  of  Bnrke,  with  some 
smartness  of  ibnoj,  but  no  Bonnd  Bsnse,  whb  proud,  diadwnful  of  raatrftint, 
indignant  at  h11  obstacles  to  her  will,  eager  in  the  pnrauit  of  pleasure,  and 
firm  enough  to  hold  to  her  dosirca,  or  perish  in  their  nreek.  Her  inordinate 
gatnliUng  and  dissipations,  with  those  of  the  Connt  d'Artoie  and  others  of 
her  clique,  had  been  a  sensible  item  in  the  exbauBtion  of  tho  treasury,  which 
called  info  action  the  reforming  hand  of  the  nation ;  and  her  opposition  to 
it,  her  inflcsiblo  perverseneaa  and  dairatlees  spirit,  led  herself  to  the  guillo- 
tine, drew  the  king  on  uith  her,  and  plunged  the  worJd  into  crimes  and 
oalamitles  whieh  will  foteTer  st^n  the  pages  of  modern  history.  I  have 
everbeliered  that  hud  there  been  no  queen  there  wonld  have  been  no  Revo- 
lution. No  foroe  would  hare  been  provolicd  or  exercised.  [He  adds,  that 
he  would  not  have  voted  for  the  eseoution  of  the  sovereign.  He  would 
have  shut  tho  queei(  up  in  a  convent,  and  deprived  the  liing  only  of  irre- 
sponsible and  arbitrary  power.] 

GEtJERAL   BLiJCHER. 

This  "personal"  of  Bliieher  is  from  the  RecoWeclions  o? 
Lady  Clementina  Davies: — When  the  special  m(ssengers  arrived 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL 

to  infoi'm  Bliiclier  that  Napoleon  had  escaped  fruia  Elba,  and 
that  his  services  would  be  immediately  required,  in  the  field, 
they  were  astonished  to  find  him  literally  running  round  and 
round  a  laige  room,  the  floor  of  which  was  covered  with  saw- 
dust, and  in  which  he  had  immured  himself  ander  the  delusion 
that  he  waa  an  elephant.  For  the  time  it  was  feared  that 
Bliieher  was  hopelessly  insane,  or  that  he  was  so  far  suffering 
from  delirium  tremens  that  his  active  oo-operation  in  the  an- 
ticipated campaign  would  be  impossible;  hut  when  the  urgent 
news  was  brought  him  he  at  once  recovered  himself,  and  pro- 
ceeded to  give  his  advice  in  a  perfectly  sound  state  of  mind, 
the  tone  of  which  mas  thus,  as  by  a  sudden  shock,  restored  to 


THE   MOTHER  OF 

An  inforesting  historical  discovery  haa  been  made  by  a  Prus- 
sian savant,  of  the  name  of  Bet^enroth,  who  was  commissioned 
by  the  English  Government  to  investigate  various  collections  of 
Spanish  archivi»  for  papers  illustrating  the  relations  between 
Spain  and  England  in  the  middle  ages.  Among  other  important 
documents,  M.  Bergenroth  discovered  a  hitherto  unpublished 
mass  of  correspondence  of  Ferdinand  the  Catholic  dud  Ch'ir 
les  V. 

From  this  correspondence  it  appears  that  Jo-inna,  diuEjhter 
of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  and  mother  of  Charles,  wab  not 
re^y  mad,  as  all  the  world  has  hitherto  believed  The  story 
was  an  atrocious  fabrication,  under  cover  of  which,  first  her 
fiither,  and  then  her  sou  kept  her  incarcerated,  in  order  to  keep 
possession  themselves  of  the  crown  of  Castile,  which  was  hers 
by  right  of  her  mother  Isabella.  After  long  years  of  rigorous 
and  even  cruel  captivity,  the  unforfcunato  lady  did  at  last  lose 
her  senses,  bat  not  until  her  old  age. 

We  aro  continually  called  upon  to  reconstruct  our  views  of 
history,  which,  the  more  we  study  it,  i 
Hamlet's  cloud,  taking  whatever  shape  partisanship  may  d 


lyClOOglC 


796  HISTORICAL    MEMOEANDA. 

mine.  We  must  draw  a  new  likeness  of  Charles,  who  is  no 
longer  the  prince  full  of  Flemish  bonhomie,  good  knight,  and 
boon  companion,  rigoroua  and  despotic,  but  not  personally  cruel  j 
and  when  this  is  done,  Philip  II.  will  appear  a  leas  surprising 
anomaly. 

TDE   TEADITIONAL   MARY   MAGDALENE. 

The  injurious  and  probably  unjust  inferences  respecting  Mary 
Magdalene,  as  drawn  by  the  general  assent  of  the  Christian 
Church  ftom  the  narratives  of  the  Evangelists,  in  which  mention  ■ 
is  made  of  her  attendance  on  our  Lord,  want  the  stamp  of 
confirmation.  Such  portraiture  is  more  traditional  than  au- 
thoritative. The  prevailing  conjecture  that  the  infirmity  of 
which  she  had  been  cured  implied  moral  guilt  was  rejected,  or 
mentioned  with  hesitation,  by  the  early  Greek  and  Latin 
Fathers.  It  was  taken  up  by  Gregory  the  Great,  and  stamped 
with  hia  authority  in  the  latter  part  of  the  sisth  century.  It 
is  sanctioned  by  the  Roman  Breviary,  and  its  trath  has  been 
assumed  by  most  eoole^astical  writers,  who  seem  to  think  that 
Mary  loved  much  because  she  had  much  to  be  fot^ven.  Paint- 
ers and  poets  have  described  the  supposed  illustrious  penitent, 
in  loose  array,  without  ^ving  her  costume  the  benefit  of  her 
conyersiou!  By  these  means  it  became  established  in  the 
popular  mind.  This  was  the  more  easy,  as  it  supplied  an 
agreeable  and  interesting  contrast.  It  made  one  Mary  serve  as 
a  foil  to  set  off  the  excellencies  of  another.  Mary,  the  mother 
of  onr  Lord,  became  the  type  of  feminine  purity;  but  the 
leaders  of  opinion  were  not  content  with  giving  her  those 
honors  to  ■which  all  Christians  consider  her  justly  entitled.  To 
give  it,  however,  the  advantage  of  a  striking  contrast,  and  thus 
make  it  shine  with  greater  splendor,  a  female  character  of  an 
opposite  description  was  wanted — a  type  of  fallen  womanhood, 
penitent  and  restored.  And  as  "the  woman  which  was  a  sinner," 
mentioned  by  St.  Luke  in  the  seventh  chapter  of  his  Gospel,  is 
left  by  the  historian  strictly  anonymous,  Mary  Magdalene, 


lyGoogle 


HISTORICAL   MEMORANDA.  797 

whose  name  occurs  in  the  next  chapter,  was  seized  on  for  this 
purpose,  and  her  character  trcateil  in  a  way  which,  by  any 
honest  woman,  wuuld  he  deemeil  worse  than  martyrdom. 

MOTHER   GOOSE. 

Mother  Groosc,  instead  of  being  a  traditional  bard,  or  a  creature 
of  fancy,  as  commonly  supposed,  was  a  veritable  personage.  The 
mother-in-law  of  Thomas  Fleet,  the  editor,  in  1731,  of  the 
Boston  Weekly  Rehersal,  was  the  original  Mother  Groose — the 
"old  woman"  of  the  world-famous  melodies.  Mother  Goose 
belonged  to  a  wealthy  family  in  Boston,  where  her  eldest 
daughter,  Elizabeth  Goose,  was  married  by  Cotton  Mather,  in 
'  1715,  to  Fleet,  and  in  due  time  gave  birth  to  a  son.  Like  most 
mothers-in-law  in  our  own  day,  the  importance  of  Mrs.  Goose 
increased  with  the  appearance  of  her  grandchild,  and  poor  Mr. 
Fleet,  half  disfcraoted  with  her  endless  nursery  ditties,  finding 
all  other  means  fail,  tried  what  ridicule  could  eifect,  and  actually 
printed  a  book  with  the  title:  "Songs  for  the  Nursery,  or 
Mother  Goose's  Melodies  for  Children,  printed  by  T.  Fleet,  at 
his  printing  house,  Pudding  Lane,  Boston.    Price  tea  coppers." 

Mother  Goose  was  the  mother  of  nineteen  eiiildren,  and 
heuce  we  may  easily  traee  the  ori^n  of.  that  famous  classic:— 


HISTORY   AND   FICTION. 

The  archbishop  of  Canterbury  once  put  the  following  ques- 
tion to  Betterton,  the  actor:  "  How  is.  it  that  you  playere,  who 
deal  only  with  things  imaginary,  affect  your  auditors  as  if  they 
were  real ;  while  we  preachers,  who  deal  only  with  things  real, 
afiect  onr  auditors  aa  if  they  were  ima^nary?"  "It  is,  my 
lord,"  replied  the  player,  "because  we  actors  speak  of  things 
imaginary  as  if  they  were  real,  while  you  preachers  too  often 
speak  of  things  real  aa  if  they  were  imaginary."  Whlt«fie)d 
used  to  tell  this  anecdote  as  an  esplanation  of  his  own  vehement 


lyGoogle 


798  HISTOEICAL   MEMORANDA. 

and  dramatic  style  of  preaching,  The  remark  may  be  applied 
to  historical  and  fictifcioas  wilting.  The  old  school  tisforians 
were  so  solid  and  stately  that  they  conveyed  only  feeble  images 
to  the  mind,  while  poeta  and  romancers  out  of  airy  nothings 
have  created  living  and  breathing  beings.  How  mncli  more 
readily  we  remember  romance  than  history,  and  yet  "truth  is 
stranger  than  fiction."  Shakspeaie's  Macbeth  and  Kichard  are 
not  the  Macbeth  and  Richard  of  history,  yet  we  cling  to  the 
poet's  portraits  of  them,  and  discard  the  sober  truth,  "Mac- 
beth," Sir  Walter  Scott  tell  us,  "  broke  no  law  of  hospitality  in 
hia  attempt  on  Duncan's  life.  He  attacked  and  slew  the  king 
at  a  place  called  Bothgowan,  or  the  Smith's  house,  near  Elgin, 
in  1039,  and  not,  as  has  been  supposed,  in  his  own  castle  of 
Inverness.  The  act  was  bloody,  as  was  the  complexion  of  the 
times;  but  in  very  truth,  the  claim  of  Macbeth  to  the  throne, 
according  to  the  rules  of  Scottish  suecession,  was  better  than 
that  of  Duncan.  As  a  king,  the  tyrant  so  much  exclaimed 
against,  was,  in  realty,  a  firm,  just  and  equitable  prince  Early 
authorities  show  us  no  such  pe  iw  us  is  B  uq  ind  his  son 
Eleance,  nor  have  we  reason  ty  think  that  the  latte  ever  fled 
further  fix)m  Macbeth  than  across  the  flat  scene  acco  ding  to 
the  stage  direction.  Neither  were  Bmq  o  or  his  son  ancestors 
of  the  honse  of  Stuart.  All  tl  e  e  th  -s  are  now  kn  wn,  but 
the  mind  retains  pertinaciously  the  n  pres  ons  made  by  the 
imposition  of  genius.  While  tl  e  w  rks  of  Shakspeare  arc 
read,  and  the  Ei^liah  knguage  exists  history  may  s  y  what 
she  will,  but  the  general  reader  will  only  reeolle  t  Ma  beth  as 
the  sacrilegious  usurper  and  It  char  1  as  the  deto  med  murderer. 


Robert  Greene,  the  Elizabctbin  d  imat  st  an  1  n    elist,  ir 
lulged  in  the  following  dispaiag  ng  cnt  cism  m  reference  t 


"  There  is  an  upstart  crow  bea  t  fied  w  th  our  feathers  that, 
with  hia  H^&r'n  heart  wrapt  in  a  }jI  y  rs  lid    supposes  he  is 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL    MEMORANDA.  799 

as  Well  able  to  bombast  out  a  blank  verse  as  tbe  best  of  you, 
and  beiQg  an  absolute  Johannes  fiiototum,  is  in  hia  own  conceit 
tbe  only  Shake-eeene  in  a  country." 

The  line  m  italics  is  a  parody  of  one  in  3  Henry  VI.,  i.  i: — 

"  0 !  tiger's  heart  wrapped  in  a  woman's  liide,"  which  was 
taken  from  an  old  play  called  the  Mrst  Part  of  the  Oimfftiilion 
of  the  two  famous  Souses  of  Torh  and  Lancaster.  Shak- 
speare  is  known  to  have  founded  his  Henry  VI.  upon  this 
piece  and  another  which  are  supposed  to  have  been  written  by 
Grreone  or  his  friends,  and  hence,  no  doubt,  Greene's  acrimo- 
nious remark. 

Says  Dugald  Stewart  in  his  Essai/s: — A  curious  specimen  of 
cotemporary  criticism  is  found  in  tbe  Letters  of  the  celebrated 
Waller,  who  speaks  thus  of  the  first  appearance  of  Paradise 
Lost: — "The  old  blind  schoohnaater,  John  Milton,  hath  puh- 
liahed  a  tedious  poem  on  the  Fall  of  Man.  If  its  length  be 
not  considered  as  merit,  it  has  no  other!"  Johnson  also  says, 
in  his  Ziives  of  the  Poets  '  Thompson  has  Idtely  published  a 
poem,  called  the  Castle  o/  I  ioli'itcr  in  which  theie  sjo  aume 
good  stanzas  I" 

Why  do  not  men  of  superior  talents  striYO,  ff  r  the  honor  of 
thearts  which  they  lo\e  to  conceal  their  ignoble  jesJousie^  from 
the  malignity  of  those  whom  incipicity  and  mortifiid  pude 
have  leagued  together  as  the  covenanttd  foes  ot  w<rth  and 
■genius?  What  a  triumph  has  been  furnished  to  the  writers 
who  delight  in  levellint;  all  the  proud  distinctions  of  humanity ! 
and  what  a  stain  has  been  left  on  some  of  the  fairest  pages  of 
our  lit«rary  history  by  the  irritable  passions  and  petty  hostilities 
of  Pope  and  Addison ! 

Miehelet,  the  historian,  showed  his  extreme  aversion  to  the 
First  Napoleon  by  deseribiag  him  as  "without  eyelashes  or  eye- 
brows; with  a  small  quantity  of  hair  of  an  uncertain  brown; 
with  eyes  gray,  hkc  a  pane  of  gls^s,  wherein  one  sees  nothing; 
in  short,  an  incomplete  and  obscure  impersonality  which  ap- 
pears phantasmagorical," 


lyGoogle 


800  HISTORICAL    MEMORANDA. 

GBEAT  EVENTS   FROM   LITTLE   CAUSES, 
parvis  momsntis  magnus  rarum  mutatioHea  effieit.— OiSitt,  De  Bella  Oivili. 

In  Faor  BvJmrd's  Almanac,  1758,  Franklin  quotes,— "He 
adviseth  to  circumspection  and  care  even  in  the  smallest  matters, 
because  sometimes  '  A  little  neglect  may  breed  great  mischief,' 
adding,  '  For  want  of  a  nail  the  shoe  was  lost;  for  want  of  a 
shoe  the  horse  was  lost;  for  want  of  a  horse  the  rider  was  lost' ; 
being  overtaken  aud  slain  by  the  cnomy,  all  for  want  of  care 
about  a  horse-shoe  nail.  And  St.  James  (ch.  iii.  v.  5)  gives  a 
■fine  illustration  in  respect  te  the  government  -of  the  tongue, 
"Behold  how  great  a  matter  a  little  fire  kindleth." 

In  the  relations  of  cause  and  consequence  there  must,  of 
course,  be  many  greater  causes  in  readiness  to  act.  An  accident- 
al spark  may  blow  up  a  i'oxtross— provided  there  be  gunpowder 
iu  the  magazine.  But  it  is  as  legitimate  as  it  is  curious  to  trace 
the  successive  links  of  a  chain  of  events  back  te  small  accidents. 

"How  momentous,"  says  Campbell,  "are  the  results  of 
apparently  trivial  oiroumstancea !  When  Mahomet  was  flying 
from  his  enemies,  he  took  reftige  in  a  cave;  which  his  pursuers 
would  have  entered,  if  they  had  not  seen  a  spider's  web  at  the 
entrance.  Not  knowing  that  it  was  freshly  woven,  they  passed 
by,  and  thus  a  spider's  web  changed  the  history  of  the  world. 

When  Louis  VII.,  to  obey  the  injunctions  of  his  bishops, 
cropped  his  hair  and  shaved  his  beard,  Eleanor,  his  consort, 
found  him,  with  this  unusual  appearance,  very  ridiculous,  and 
soon  very  contemptible.  She  revenged  herself  as  she  thoi^ht 
proper,  and  the  poor  shaved  king  obt^ued  a  divorce.  She  then 
married  the  Count  of  Anjou,  afterwards  Henry  II.  of  England. 
She  ha  \  for  her  mfonage-dower  the  rich  provinces  of  Poitou  and 
Gmenne  and  this  was  the  origin  of  those  wars  which  for  three 
lunlred  years  ravaged  France,  and  cost  the  French  three 
milh  m  lit  men  All  this  probably  had  never  occuiTed  had 
Louis  not  been  )  rash  as  to  crop  his  head,  and  shave  his  beard, 
by  which  he  became  so  disgustful  in  the  eyes  of  Queen  Eleanor, 


lyGoogle 


MESfOEANDA.  §01 

Warton  mentions,  in  his  Notes  on  Pope^  that  the  Treaty  of 
TJtreclit  was  occasioned  by  a  quarrel  between  the  Duchesa  of 
Marlborough  and  Queen  Anne  about  a  pair  of  f(lovea. 

The  expedition  to  the  island  of  IW  was  undertaken  to  gratify 
a  foolish  and  romantic  passion  of  the  Duke  of  Buckingham. 

The  coquetry  of  the  daughter  of  Count, Juliaa  introdnced 
the  Saracens  into  Spain. 

Wbat  can  be  imagined  more  trivial,  remarks  Hume,  in  one  of 
his  essays,  than  the  difference  between  one  color  of  livery  and 
another  in  horse  races  f  Yet  this  difference  begat  two  roost 
inveterate  factions  in  the  Greek  empire,  the  Prasini  and 
Venoti;  who  never  suspended  their  animosities  till  they  ruined 
that  unhappy  government. 

The  murder  of  Csesar  in  the  capitol  was  chiefly  owing  to  his 
not  rising  from  his  seat  when  the  senate  tendered  him  some 
particular  honors. 

The  negotiations  with  the  Pope  for  dissolying  Henry  VIII. 's 
marriage  (which  brought  on  the  Reformation)  are  said  to  have 
been  interrupted  by  the  Earl  of  Wiltshire'?  dog  biting  his  holi- 
ness's  toe,  when  he  put  it  out  to  be  kissed  by  that  ambassador; 
and  the  J>uchess  of  Marlborough's  spilling  a  basin  of  water  on 
Mrs.  Masham's  gown,  in  Qneen  Anne's  i'eign,  brought  in  the 
Tory  Ministry,  and  gave  a  new  turn  to  the  afiairs  of  Europe. 

If  the  nose  of  Cleopatra  haii  been  shorter,  said  Pasoal,  in  his  , 
epigrammatic  and  brilliant  manner,  the  condition  of  the  world 
would  have  been  different 

Luther  might  have  been  a  lawyer,  had  his  friend  and  com- 
panion escaped  the  thunderstorm;  Scotland  had  wanted  her 
stern  reformer,  if  the  appeal  of  the  preacher  had  not  startled  him 
in  the  chapel  of  St  Andrew's  Castie ;  and  if  Mr.  Grenville  had 
not  carried,  in  1764,  his  memorable  resolution  as  to  the  expedi- 
ency of  charging  certain  stamp  duties  on  the  plantations  in 
America,  the  western  world  might  still  have  bowed  to  the 
British  sceptre. 

Giotto,  one  of  the  early  Florentine  painters,  might  have  con- 


lyClOOglC 


802  historicjIL  memoranda, 

tinned  a  rude  shepherd  boy,  if  a  sheep  drawn  by  him  upon  a 
*tone  had  not  accidentally  attracted  the  notice  of  Cimabue. 


Mr.  Jefferaon  used  to  relate,' with  much  merrinieilt,  that  the 
final  signing  of  the  Declaration  of  Itdependence  was  hastened 
by  an  absurdly  trfvial  cause.  Near  the  hall  in  which  the 
debates  were  then  held  was  a  livery  stable,  from  which  swarraa 
of  flies  oame  into  the  open  windows  and  assailed  the  silk -stock- 
inged legs  of  honorable  members.  Handkerohief  in  hand  they 
lashed  the  flies  with  such  vigor  as  they  could  command  on  a 
July  afternoon,  but  the  annoyance  became  at  length  so  extreme 
as  to  render  them  impatient  of  delay,  and  they  made  haste  to 
bring  the  momentous  business  to  a  conclusion. 

After  such  a  long  and  severe  strain  upon  their  minds,  mem- 
bers seem  to  have  indulged  in  many  a  jocular  observation  as 
they  stood  around  the  table.  Tradition  has  it  that  when  John 
Hancock  had  afEsod  his  lu^nifleent  signature  to  the  paper,  he 
said,  "There,  John  Bull  may  read  my  name  without  spec- 
tacles!" Tradition,  also,  will  never  relinquish,  the  pleasure  of 
repeating  that,  when  Mr.  Hancock  reminded  members  of  the 
necessity  of  hanging  together,  Dr.  Franklin  was  ready  with  hia 
"Yea,  we  must  indeed  all  hang  together,  or  else,  must  assuredly 
we  shall  all  hang  separately."  And  this  may  have  su^ested  to 
the  portly  Harrison— a  "  lusurious,  heavy  gentleman,"  as  John 
Adams  describes  him — his  remark  to  slender  Elbridge  Getry, 
that  when  the  hanging  came  he  should  have  the  advantage,  for 
poor  Gerry  would  be  kicking  in  the  mr  long  after  it  was  all 
over  with  himself 

French  critics  censure  Shakspeare  for  mingling  bufibonery 
with  scenes  of  the  deepest  tragic  interest  But  here  we  find 
one  of  the  most  important  assembhes  ever  convened,  at  the 
supreme  moment  of  its  existence,  while  performing  the  act  tliat 
gives  it  its  rank  among  deliberate  bodies,  cracking  jokes,  and 
hurrying  up  to  the  table  to  sign,  in  order  to  escape  the  flies.  It 
is  preciady  ao  that  Shakspeare  would  have  imagined  the  scene. 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL   MEMORANDA. 


Aeoording  to  a  Spanisli  tradition  the  discoTery  of  America 
is  mainly  due  to  the  result  of  a  hard-fought  game  of  chess. 
Columbus  had  for  seven  weary  years  been  dancing  attendance 
upon  the  Court  of  Spain  in  pursuance  of  the  aim  of  his  life. 
The  anxious  petitioner  for  royal  favor  and  assistance  had  feiled 
to  arouse  in  Ferdinand  sufE-cient  interest,  in  what  was  declared 
by  the  eommissioners  appointed  to  report  upon  the  project,  to 
be  a  visionary  and  impracticable  scheme.  Trne,  he  had  enlisted 
the  sympathy  of  the  good  queen  Isabella^  and  his  hopes  had 
been  encouraged  and  sustained  by  her  in  many  ways.  But  after 
years  of  vain  solicitation,  baffled  by  the  skepticism  which  could 
not  share  his  aspirations,  he  determined  to  lay  his  plans  before 
Charles  VIII.  of  France,  and  accordingly  caJled  to'  tafee  leave 
of  their  majesties  before  his  departure  from  Cordova.  Arriving 
at  the  palace  at  nightfall,  he  anoounced  his  purpose  to  the 
queen,  who  instantly  sought  Ferdinand  with  a  determination  to 
make  a  final  effort  on  behalf  of  'the  sad  aiid  discouraged  suitor.  ■ 
The  king  was  absorbed  in  a  game  of  ehess  with  a  grandee  whose 
skill  taxed  bis  powers  to  the  utmost.  Isabella's  interruption  had 
the  effect  of  distracting  the  monarch's  attention,  and  of  causing 
him  to  lose  his  principal  piece,  which  was  followed  by  a  volley 
of  imprecations  on  mariners  in  generaJ,  and  Columbus  in  parti- 
cular. The  game  grew  worse,  and  defeat  seemed  imminent; 
Witji  the  prospect  of  being  vanquished,  Ferdinand  at  length 
told  the  queen  that  her  protege  should  be  successful  or  other- 
wise accordingly  as  the  game  resulted.  She  immediately  bent . 
all  her  energies  upon  the  board,  and  watched  the  long  contest 
with  concentrated  interest.  The  colirtiers  clustered  around  the 
table,  amused  at  the  excitement  of  the  king  and  the  quiet 
satis&ction  of  his  antagonist.  And  so  the  game  went  on  which 
was  to  decide  the  discovery  of  a  new  world,  until  Isabella 
leaned  toward  her  husband's  ear  and  whispered,  "you  can 
checkmate  him  in  four  moves."  In  the  utmost  astonishment 
Ferdinand  re-examined  the  game,  'found  the  queen's  assertion 


lyClOOglC 


804  HISTORICAL    MEMORANDA. 

correct,  and  in  the  course  of  a  few  iumut(S  announced  that 
Columbus  should  depart  on  his  voyage  with  the  title  of  Ad- 
miral of  the  Elect. 

THE  STORY   Of   TWO    FAVORITE   BALLADS. 


The  birth  of  the  heroine  of  the  well-known  ballad  of  Annie 
Lfiurie  is  quaintly  recorded  by  her  fiither,  Sir  Robert  Laurie, 
of  MaxwoUtown,  in  the  family  register,  in  these  words: — 

"  At  the  pleasure  of  the  Almighty  God,  my  daughter,  Annie 
Laurie,  was  born  on  the  16th  da,y  of  December,  1682  years, 
about  6  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  was  baptised  by  Mr.  Geo." 
[Hunter,  of  Gloncairn.] 

And  his  own  marriage  is  given  in  the  same  quaint  style: — 

"At  the  pleasure  of  the  Almighty,  I  was  married  to  my 
wife,  Jean  Eiddlfe,  upon  the  27th  day  of  July,  1674,  in  the 
Trom  Kirk  of  Edinb.,  by  Mr.  Annane." 

These  statements  are  derived  from  the  curious  collection  of 
manuscripts  left  by  the  late  Mr.  W.  F.  H.  Arundell,  of  Barjarg 
Tower,  Ihimfriesshire.  The  papers  of  this  industrious  collector 
contMu  a  vast  fund  of  information  respecting  the  antiquities  and 
county  femilies  of  Dumfriesshire.  From  them  we  learn  further 
that  Annie  waa  wooed  by  William  Douglas,  of  Finglaiid,  in 
Kirkcudbrightshire,  Her  charms  are  .thus  spoken  of  in  his 
pathetic  lyric,  "  Bonnie  Annie  Laurie  "  : — ■ 

.Her  bron  is  like  the  snow-drift, 

Her  Deck  is  like  the  sv&n, 
Her  fsne  it  is  the  fairest 


"She  was,  however,  obdurate  to  his  passionate  appeal,  pre- 
ferring Alexander  Ferguson,  of  Craigdarroch,  to  whom  she  was 


lyClOOglC 


805 

eventually  married-  'I'liis  William  Douglas  waa  said  to  have 
been  the  hero  of  the  well-known  song,  "Willie  was  a  Wanton 
Wag."  Though  ho  was  refused  by  Annie,  he  did  not  ping 
away  in  single  bleaaedness,  but  made  a  i-unawaj  marriage  with 
Miss  Elizabeth  Clark,  of  Glenboig,  in  Galloway,  by  whom  he 
had  four  sons  and  two  daughters." 


Eobin  Adah-  was  well-knowa  in  the  London  fashionable  cir- 
cles of  the  last  century  by  the  sobriquet  of  the  "Fortunate 
Irishman;"  but  his  parentage  and  the  exact  place  of  his  birth 
are  unknown.  He  was  brought  up  as  a  surgeon,  but  "  his  detec- 
tion in  an  early  amour  drove  him  precipitately  from  Dublin,"  to 
ptiali  his  fortunes  in  England.  Scarcely  had  he  crossed  the 
Channel  when  the  chda  of  lucky  events  that  ultimately  led  him 
to  fame  and  fortune  commenced. 

Near  Holyhead,  perceiving  a  carriage  overturned,  he  ran  to 
render  assistance.  The  sole  occupant  of  this  vehicle  was  a  "  lady 
of  feahion,  wc!l-known  in  polite  circles,"  who  received  Adair's 
attentions  with  thanks;  and,  being  lightly. hurt,  and  hearing 
that  he  was  a  surgeon,  requested  him  to  travel  with  her  in  her 
carriage  to  London.  On  thoir  arrival  in  the  metropolis  she 
presented  him  with  a  fee  of  one  hundred  guineas,  and  gave  him 
a  general  invitation  to  her  house.  In  after  life  Admr  used  to 
say  that  it  was  not  sp  much  the  amount  of  this  fee,  but  the 
time  it  was  given,  that  was  of  .service  to  him,  as  he  was  then 
almost  destitute.  But  the  invitation  to  her  house  was  a  still 
greater  service,  for  there  he  met  the  person  who  decided  his 
fate  in  life.  This  was  Lady  Caroline  Keppel,  daughter  of  the 
second  Earl  of  Albemarle  and  of  Lady  Anne  Lenox,  daughter 
of  the  first  Duke  of  Bichraond.  Forgetting  her  high  lineage, 
Lady  Caroline,  at  the  finst  sight  of  the  Irish  surgeon,  fell  des- 
perately in  love  with  him;  and  her  emotions  were  so  sudden  and 
so  violent  as  to  attract  the  general  attention  of  tlie  company. 

Adair,  perceiving  his  advantage,  lost  no  time  in  pursuing  it; 
while  the  Albemarle  and  Ilichmond  families  w 
68 


lyClOOglC 


806  HISTORICAL    MEMORANDA. 

the  prospect  of  such,  a  terrible  mcsalltance.  Every  means 
w^re  tried  to  induce  the  youog  lady  to  alt«r|,her  mind,  but 
without  effect.  Adair's  biographer  tells  us  that  "amusements, 
a  long  journey,  an  advantageous  offer,  and  other  comttion  modes 
of  sliiking  off  what  was  considered  by  the  family  as  an  im- 
proper ma,tch,  were  already  tried,  but  in  vain;  the  health  of 
Lady  Caroline  was  evidently  impaired,,  and  tlie  &nily  at  last 
confessed,  witli  a  good  sense  that  reflects  honor  on  their  under- 
standings as  well  as  their  hearts,  that  it  was  possible  to  prevent, 
but  never  to  dissolve  an  attachment;  and  that  marriage  was 
the  honorable,  and  indeed  the  only  alternative  that  could  secure 
her  happiness  and  life." 

When  Lady  Caroline  was  taten  by  her  friends  from  Lon- 
don to  Bath,  that  she  might  bo  separated  from  her  lover,  she 
wrote,  it  is  said,  the  song  of  "Kobin  Adair,"  and  set  it  to  a 
plaintive  Irish  tnne  that  she  had  heard  him  sing.  Whether  writ- 
ten by  Lady  Oaroline  or  not,  the  song  is  simply  expressive  of  her 
feelings  at  the  time,  and  as  it  completely  corroborates  the  cir- 
eamstanccs  justrclated,  which  wei-e  the  town-talk  of  the  period, 
though  now  little  more  than  femily  tradition,  there  can  be  no 
doubt  that  they  were  the  origin  of  the  song,  the  words  of 
*hich,  as  originally  written,  are  the  following; — 

What'a  tliie  dull  town  to  me? 

Robin's  not  near; 
'   He.  whom  I  wisb  to  soc. 

Wish  for  to  hear. 
Wkere'a  all  the  Joy  and  mirth, 
Made  life  a  heaven  oa  earth? 
Oh  i  they're  all  Bed  with  thee, 

Rohin  Adair! 
What  made  the  asaembly  shine? 

Rohin  Adair! 
What  made  the  ball  eo  fine? 


lyClOOglC 


BISTORICAI.    M 
But  now  thou  art  far  ft 


Bobin 

Adait! 

Vot 

1,^1 1 

so  wel 

Stil 

in  my 

he 

rtshaJ 

dwell 

Immediately  after  his  marriage  with  Lady  Caroline,  Adaii 
was  appointed  InBpector  General  of  Military  Hospitals,  and  suh- 
sequently,  becoming  a  favorite  of  Greorgelll.,  he  was  made  Sur- 
geon-General, King's  Sergeant  Sui^eon,  and  Surgeon  of  Chelsea 
Hospital  Very  fortunate  men  have  seldom  many  friends,  but 
Adair,  by  dechning  a  baronetcy  that  was  offered  to  him  by  the 
kmg,  for  surgical  attendance  on  the  Duke  of  Gtloueester,  actu- 
ally aqnircd  considerible  popularity  before  his  death,  which 
tiiok  plau;  when  he  was  nearly  four-aeore  years  of  age,  in  1790. 
In  the  '  Gentleman  a  Magazine"  of  that,  year  there  are  verses 
"On  the  Death  of  Robert  Adair,  Esq.,  lateSui^on-General,  by 
I  C  nne  M  D , '  who,  it  is  to  bo  hoped,  was  a  much  better 
physician  than  a  popt 

Lady  Carohne  Adiu-'s  married  life  was  short  but  happy, 
^he  died  of  consumption,  after  giving  birth  to  three  children, 
one  ot  them  a  son  On  her  doath-bed  she  requested  Adair 
to  wear  mourning  for  her  as  long  as  he  lived;  which  heacrupu- 
louslj  did,  save  on  the  king's  and  queen's  birthday,  when  his 
duty  to  hifl  sovereign  required  him  to  appear  at  Court  in  full 
dress.  If  this  injunction  respecting  mourning  were  to  prevent 
Adair  marrying  again,  it  had  the  desired  effect ;  he  did  not  mar- 
ry a  second  time,  though  he  had  many  offers. 

JOAN   OF    ARC. 

The  legend  respecting  the  substitution  of  another  person  .at  the 
stake,  and  the  SE|>aequent  mairiage  of  the  Maid  t«  Robert  des 
Hermoiaes,  has  been,  treated  by  no  lees  an  ieonociasfc  than  M. 
Ootave  Delepierre,  the  learned  Belgian  Consul  in  England,  in  a 


lyGoogle 


OOO  HISTORICAL   MEMORANDA. 

volame  (Dowte  Iligtoriqw:) ,  privatelj  printed.  In  the  Athn- 
nimm  for  September  15,  1855,  there  is  a  complete  analysis  of 
the  story,  from  which  it  appears  that  more  than  two  centuries 
after  the  alleged  execution  of  Joan,  namely  in  1645,  Father 
Vignier  found  documents  among  the  archives  at  Meta,  which 
spoke  of  the  presence  and  rec(^nition  of  Joan  in  that  city,  five 
years  after  her  alleged  execution.  The  Father  was  then  a 
guest  of  a  descendant  of  Robert  des  Hermoises,  in  whose  muni- 
ment ehest  he  discoTered  the  marriage  contract  of  Robert  and 
Joiin.  The  matter  was  forgotten,  when  iu.  1740,  documents 
were  found  at  Orleans  which  recorded,  among  other  things,  a 
gratuity  made  to  Joan  in  1439,  "  for  services  rendered  by  her 
at  the  siege  of  the  same  city,  210  tivres."  The  tradition  has 
many  singular  points,  and  is  ftill  of   delightful  uncertainty. 

AMY   BOBSART. 

Anotlier  time-honored  illusion  is  gone,  and  Amy  Robs^'t 
descends  into  the  grave  like  a  respuefahlo  lady,  inst™d  of  dis- 
appewing  through  a  trap-door  into  a  vault  beniiath  and  break- 
ing her  neck.  So  one  by  one  the  pleasant  fictions  over  which 
in  youth  we  lingered  with  such  keen  enjoyment,  are  stripped 
of  their  reality,  and  nothing  but  dull  prose  is  left  in  their 
place.  The  pretty  legend  of  Poea,hontas,  the  venerable  and 
patriotic  one  of  William  Tell,  the  ingenious  mystifiuation 
between  the  island  of  Juan  Fernandea,  Alexander  Selkirk, 
and  Robinson  Oruaoe,  all  have  been  east  down  from  their 
shrines.  Nay,  attempts  have  been  made  to  remove  Stiaks- 
peare  himself  into  the  region  of  myth,  by  representing  that 
]jord  Bacon  was  the  veritable  awfhor  of  the  plays  ancf  poems 
supposed  to  have  been  written  hy  the  great  bard  of  Avon. 
No  one  need  now  despair  of  the  disappearance  of  any  time- 
honored  personage  or  romance. 

The  name  of  Amy  Robsart  has  always  possessed  a  peculiar 
interest,  not  merely  on  account  of  the  historical  assoeiations 


lyGoogle 


HISTORICAL   MEMORANDA. 


connected  witt  ter,  but  for  the  halo  with  which  r 
poetry  have  invested  her  ;  and  not  the  least  strange  feature  of 
the  case  is  the  feet  that  historians  should  have  so  generally  ig- 
nored the  falsity  of  the  l^end.  It  had  ism  wrapped  in  its 
venerable  mantle  for  more  than  three  huodred  years,  until  yery 
recently,  when  public  attention  was  forcibly  called  to  the  sub- 
ject by  an  article  published  in  the  Oxford  Undergraduates' 
Jbuiftal,  England.  In  a  communication  in  that  periodical, 
from  the  Secretary  to  the  Oxford  Architectural  and  Historical 
Society,  there  is  a  statement  to  the  following  effect :  "  The  Kev. 
J.  Bui^on,  the  Vicar  of  St.  Mary's  (Oxford),  has  caused  an 
inscription  to  be  cut  on  the  top  step  of  the  three  steps  leading 
to  the  chancel  of  St.  Mary's  Ghuroh,  commemorating  the  site  , 
of  the  interment  of  the  ill-fated  Amy  Robsart.  The  inscrip- 
tion is  as  follows:  'In  a  yault  of  brick,  at  the  upper  end  of 
this  quire,  was  buried  Amy  Kobsart,  wife  of  Lord  Kobert 
Dudley,  K.  G.,  Sunday,  22d  September,  A.  D.  1560.'"  His- 
tory tells  us  that  the  funeral  was  celebrated  with  great  pomp ; 
but  previously  to  the  ceremony,  a  coroner's  inquest  was  held  on 
the  body,  and  after  a  long  and  minute  investigation  of  the  cir- 
cumstances, '  a  verdict  of  "  accidental  death,"  was  returned. 
The  character  of  the  Karl  of  Leicester,  (Lord  Kobert  Dudley) 
her  husband,  was  such  as  to  raise  grave  doubts  as  to  the  mode 
by  which  she  came  by  her  death,  and  the  poplar  belief  that 
Queen  Elizabeth  was  in  love  with  him,  and  was  willing  to 
marry  him,  gave  great  countenance  to  the  prevailing  suspicion 
that  he  had  kept  his  marriage  a  secret,  and  got  rid  of  his  wife 
tci  enable  him  to  carry  out  his  ambitions  schemes.  The  histo- 
rian, Hume,  alludes  to  these  reports,  which,  however,  he  de- 
rived from  Camden,  the  antiqpary,  and  which  very  probably 
originated  in  the  political  hostility  and  personal  hatred  of  Ce- 
cil, Walsinghain,  and  others  of  Leicester's  mortal '  enemies. 
Ashmole,  in  hia  work,  TAe  Antiywil/les  of  Berkshire  gives 
the  popular  legend  from  which  Sir  Walter  Scott  derived  many 
of  the  materials  for  his  beautiful  romance  of  Kemhoorih. 


lyGoogle 


810  HISTORICAL  MEHOEANDA. 

Aahmole  wrote  liis  book  about  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth 
centuij,  a  hundred  years  after  the  fatal  eveat  at  Cumnor  Hall; 
he  is,  therefore,  ao  authority  oa  the  subject ;  but  William 
Julius  Mickle,  the  poet,  took  him  for  one  a  century  later,  and 
turiied  the  story  into  verse.  And  thus,  between  political  hos- 
tility, personal  dislike,  the  non-authenticated  statementa  of 
historians,  antiquaries,  poets  a>ad  novelists,  it  has  long  been 
accepted  aa  an  undoubted  fe.ot  that  Robert  Dudley,  Earl  of 
Leicester,  murdered  his  wife,  or  was  axjcessory  to  her  murder, 
at  Cumnor  Hail.  But  it  haa  been  very  generally  overlooked 
that  his  alleged  main  jnotive  for  the  supposed  murder  could 
have  had  no  existence.  There  is  no  doubt  the  Queen  kuew  he 
was  raarried,  but  she  continued  to  disgrace  herself  by  open 
professions  of  attachment  to  him  notwithstanding;  and  after 
Amy's  sudden  death,  the  inquest  on  her  body,  and  her  public- 
funeral,  "  GJood  Queen  Bess"  was  just  aa  fond  of  him  aa  ever, 
and  showered  such  favors  upon  him  as  couid  have  left  him  but 
little  to  wish  for.  He  knew  perfectly  well  that  a  mairiage 
between  himseF  and  Elizabeth  would  have  convulsed  the 
kingdom,  and  probably  cost  him  his  life.  He  also  knew  that 
she  had  no  real  intention  of  parting  with  one  iota  of  the  royal 
power  or  prert^adve,  even  to  him,  and  henee  the  motive  for 
the  so-called  murder  fiills  to  the  ground,  and  with  it  the  pa- 
thetio  romance  built  upon  it. 

WILLIAM   TELL. 

William  Tell  is  very  hard  to  kill.  German  writers  in  the  last 
century  demolish  him,  over  and  over  again,  but  to  little  pur- 
pose. He  renmned  the  Swiss  hero,  and  what  is  far  worse,  those 
hideous  statues  at  Altflrf  continue  to  assert  their  undying  ugli- 
ness, and  pretend  to  prove,  by  their  presence  there,  the  truth 
of  the  story.  The  giant  has  been  recently  slain  once  more  as 
an  impostor.  Once  more  ?  Half  a  dozen  times ;  and  each  slayer 
takes   himself   for  the   sole   and  original   champion.      Swiss 


lyGoogle 


HISTORICAL   MEMORANDA.  811 

professors  even  have  been  at  the  work  of  demolitioii.  Three  or 
four  years  ago  Mr.  Baring-Gould,  in  hia  "  Curious  Myths  of  the 
Middle  Ages,"  sot  up  a  dozen  of  those  myths,  and  bowled  theni 
all  down  at  one  bowl :  be  proved,  as  others  had  done,  that  the ' 
legend  of  William  Tell  was  "aa  fabulous  aa  any  other  historical 
event."  Mr.  Baring-Gould,  however,  does  more  than  some 
others  have  done.  He  traces  the  story  qs  fiir  back  as  it  can  be 
traced.     This  is  the  order  of  the  tradition: — 

1.  In  the  tenth  century  a  tippling,  boaflting  Danish  soldier, 
named  Toki,  swore  he  could  drive  an  arrow  through  an  apple, 
placed  on  the  point  of  a  stick,  at  a  great  distance.  King  Harald 
Bluetooth  told  the  boaster  that  the  apple  should  be  placed  on  bis 
son's  bead,  and  if  Toki  did  not  send  an  arrow  through  it  at  the 
first  attempt,  hia  owq  head  should  pay  the  penalty.  Toki  per- 
formed the  feat  with  perfect  auecess;  but  Harald  perceiving 
he  had  brought  other  arrows,  demanded  the  I'eason  thereof,  and 
Toki  replied  that  if  he  bad  injured  bis  son  be  would  have  driven 
those  other  arrows  into  the  King's  body.  The  story  waa  first 
related  by  Saxo  Grammaticns,  in  the  twelfth  century. 

2.  But  in  the  eleventh  century  the  above  prototype  of  Tell 
had  successors  or  imitators.  King  Olaf,  the  Saint  of  Norway, 
ohallenged  Eindridi,  among  other  things,  to  shoot  with  an  arrow 
at  a  writing  tablet  on  the  bead  of  Eindridi's  son.  Each  waa  to 
have  one  shot.  Oiaf  graaed  the  boy's  head,  whereupon  the  boy's 
mother  interfered,  and  Eindridi  was  withdrawn  from  the  "conteat. 
Olaf  remarked  that  hia  competitor  bad  a  second  arrow,  which 
Eindridi  confessed  that  be  intended  for  bis  Majesty  if  anything 
very  unpleasant  had  happened  to  the  boy. 

3.  A  year  or  two  later  in  this  eleventh  century,  another 
Noise  archer,  Hemingr,  had  a  match  with  King  Harold.  Harold 
set  a  spear-shaft  for  a  mark  in  the  ground.  He  then  fired  in 
the  air;  the  arrow  turned  in  its  descent  and  pierced  the  spcar- 
shaft.  Hemingr  followed  auit,  and  split  the  King's  arrow, 
which  was  perpendicularly  fixed  in  the  spear-abaft.  Then  the 
King  stuck  a  knife  in  an  oak.     His  arrow  went  into  the  haft. 


lyGoogle 


812  HISTORICAL 

Hemingr  shot,  and  his  arrow  cleft  the  haft  and  went  into  the 
socket  of  the  blade.  The  enraged  King  next  fired  at  a  tender 
twig,  which  his  arrow  pierced,  but  Hcmingr's  split  a  haael-nat 
growing  upon  it.  "Tou  shall  pot  the  nut  on  jonr  brother 
Bjorn's  head,"  said  Harold,  "and  if  you  do  not  pierce  it  with 
your  spear  at  the  first  attempt,  your  life  shall  he  forfeited."  Of 
eourae  the  thing  wan  done.  Hemiagr  is  supposed  to  have  had 
his  revenge  by  sending  an  arrow,  throngii  Harold's  trachea  at 
the  battle  of  Stamford  Bridge,  where  ho  fought  on  the  English 

4.  In  the  Faroe  Isles,  the  above  Harold  is  said  6p  have  liad 
a  swimming-match  with  a  certain  G-eyti,  who  not  only  beat  him, 
but  gave  him  a  ducking,  Harold  condemned  him  to  shoot  a 
hazel-nut  off  his'  brother's  head,  under  the  usual  jienalty,  and 
with  the  usual  result. 

5.  The  same  story  is  told  of  one  Puncher,  (su^estive  name,) 
with  this  difference,  that  the  object  aimed  at  was  a  coin. 

6.  Id  Finland,  it  is  a  son  who  shoota  an  apple  off  his  father's 
head ;  for  which  feat  some  robbers,  who  had  captured  his  sire, 
gave  him  up  to  the  son. 

7.  In  a  Persian  poem  of  tie  twelfth  ecntnrj,  a  King,  in, 
sport,  shoots  an  arrow  at  an  apple  on  the  head  of  his  favorite 
page,  who,  though  not  hurt,  died  of  the  fright. 

8.  The  story,  with  a  difi'erence,  is  told  of  Egil,  in  the  Saga  of 
Thidrik,  of  ho  particular  date. 

9.  It  is  femiUai  to  as,  in  the  English  ballad  of  WiUum  of 
Cioudesley,  chronological  date  of  event  uncertain 

10.  Eater  William  Tell,  in  the  first  decade  of  the  fourteenth 
century.  We  need  not  tell  his  well-known  tale  agam  It  is  only 
necessary  to  retpark,  by  way  of  comment,  that  the  Tell  and 
Gesler  legend  was  not  Bet  up  till  many" years  afterwards,  and  that 
in  no  contemporary  record  is  any  mention  made  of  either  Tell, 
G-esler,  or  the  apple  incident.-  No  Vogt  named  Gesler  ever  ex- 
ercised authority  for  the  Emperor  in  Switzerland;  no  family 
bearing  the  name  of  Tell  can  be  traced  in  any  part  of  that  country. 


lyGoogle 


HISTOaiOAL   MEMORANDA.  813 

11,  and  lastly.  The  hero's  name  was  not  Tell  at  all,  but 
M'Leod,  and  he  came  from  Braemar.  Mr.  Baring-Gould  has 
quite  overiooked  him.  Therefore  is  the  new  claimant's  story 
here  subjoined  in  order  to  make  the  roll  of  legends  complete. 
It  is  taken  from  .  The  Braemar  BUgMandi ;  their  Tales,  Tradi- 
iiong  and  History,  by  Elizabeth  Taylor.  The  King  referred  to 
is  Malcolm,  Canmore. 

"A  young  man  named  M'Leod  had  been  hunting  one  day  in 
the  royal  forest.  A  fevorite  hound  of  the  King's  having  attacked 
M'Leod,  was  killed  by  him.  The  King  soon  heard  of  the  slaugh- 
ter of  .hia*fevorite,  and  was  exceedingly  angry — so  much  so  that 
M'Leod  was  condemned  to  death.  The  gibbet  was  erected  on 
Craig  Choinnich,  i.  e.,  Kenneth's  Craig.  As  there  was  less  of 
jii8ti»ie  than  revenge  in  the  sentence,  little  time  was  permitted 
ere  it  was  carried  into  execution.  The  prisoner  was  led  out  by 
the  north  gate  of  the  castle.  The  King,  in  great  atato,  surround- 
ed by  a  crowd  of  his  nobles,  followed  in  proceseion.  Sorrowing 
crowds  of  the  people  came  after,  in  wondering  amazement.  As 
they  moved  slowly  on,  an  incident  oeonrred  which  arrested 
universal  attention.  A  woman  with  a  child  in  her  arms  cam.e 
rushing  through  the  crowd,  and  throwing  herself  before  the 
King,  pleaded  with  him  to  spare  her  husband's  life,  though  it 
should  be  at  the  expense  of  all  they  possessed.  Hor  impassion- 
ed entreaties  were  met  with  silenee.  Malcolm  was  not  to  be 
moved  from  his  purpose  of  death.  Seeing  that  her  efforts  to 
move  the  King  were  Useless,  she  made  her  way  t«  her  husband, 
and  throwing  her  arms  around  him  declared  that  she  would  not 
leave  him — she  would.go  and  die  with  tim.  Malcolm  was  some- 
what moved  by  the  touching  scene.  Allen  Durward,  noticiag  the 
favorable  moment,  ventured  to  put  in  the  suggestion  that  it  was  a 
pity  to  hang  such  a  splendid  archer,  'A  splendid  archer,  is  he?' 
replied  the  King;  'then  he  shall  have  his  skill  tried.'  So  he 
ordered  that  MTieod's  wife  and  child  should  be  placed  on  the 
opposite  side  of  the  river;  something  to  serve  as  a  mark  was  to 
be  placed  on  the  child's  head.    If  M'Leod  succeeded  in  hitting 


lyClOOglC 


814  HISTORICAL    MEMOEANDA. 

the  mark  without  injuring  hia  wife  or  child  his  life  would  be 
spared,  otherwise  the  sentence  was  to  be  carried  into  execution. 
Accordingly  (so  the  legend" goes)  the  young  wife  and  child  were 
put  across  the  river,  and  placed  on  Tomghainmhoine ;  according 
to  some,  a  little  farther  down  the  river,  near  where  a  boat-honse 
once  stood.  The  width  of  the  Dee  was  to  be  tbe  distance  separa- 
ting M'-Leod  from  his  mark.  He  asked  for  a  bow  a;nd  two  ar- 
rows, and  having  examined  each  with  the  greatest  care,  he  took 
his  position.  The  eventful  moment  came,  the  people  gathered 
round  him,  and  stood  in  profound  silence.  On  the  opposite 
side  of  the  river  his  wifo  stood,  the  central  figure  of  a  xirowd 
of  eager  bystanders,  tears  glistening  on  her  cheeks  as  she  gaaed 
alternately  at  her  husband  and  child  in  dumb  emotion.  M'Leod 
took  aim ;  but  his  body  shook  like,  an  aspen-leaf  in  the  evening 
breeze.  This  was  a  trial  for  him  far  harder  than  death.  Agmn 
he  placed  himself  in  position ;  but  he  trembled  to  such  a  degree 
that  he  could  not  shoot,  and  turning  to  the  King,  who  stood 
near,  he  said  in  a  voice  scarcely  articulate  in  its  suppressed  t^ny, 
'This  is  hardi'  But  the  King  relented  not;  so  the  thii-d  time 
he  fell  into  the  attitude,  and  as  he  did  so,  almost  roared,  '  This  " 
is  hm'd !'  Then  as  if  all  his  nervousness  had  escaped  throi^h  the 
cry,  he  let  the  arrow  fly — it  struck  the  mark !  The  mother  seized 
her  ohild,  and  in  a  transport  of  joy  seemed  to  devour  it  with 
kisses;  while  the  penl>-up  emotion  of  the  crowd  foui(d  vent 
throi^h  a  loud  cry  of  wonder  and  triumph,  which  repeated  itself 
again  and  again  as  the  echoes  rolled  slowly  away  among  the 
neighboring  hills.  The  King  now  approached  M'Leod,  and 
after  confirming  his  pardon,  inquired  why  he,  so  sure  of  hand 
and  keen  of  sight,  had  asked  two  arrows?  'Because,'  replied 
M'Leod,  '  had  I  missed  the  mark,  or  hurt  my  wife  and  child,  I  was 
determined  not  to  miss  you.'  The  king  grew  pale,  and  turiied 
away  as  if  nndecided  what  to  do.  His  better  nature  prevailed; 
so  he  again  approached  M'Leod,  and  with  kindly  voice  and 
manner  told  him  that  he  would  receive  him  into  his  body-guard, 
and  he  woidd  be  well  provided  for.     'Neverl'    wiawered  the 


lyClOOglC 


HISTORICAL   MBMORANBA.  8i5 

undaunted  Celt.  'After  tte  painful  proof  to  which  you  have 
just  put  my  heart,  I  could  never  love  you  enough  to  serve  you 
faithfully.  The  King  in  amazement  cried  out,  'Thou  alt  a 
Hardy !  and  as  Hardy  thou  art,  so  Hardy  thou  shalt  he.'  "  From 
that  time  M'Leod  went  under  the  appellation  of  Hardy,  while 
his  descendants  were  termed  liie  M'Hardy's — Mao  being  the 
Gaelic  Word  for  son.  The  date  of  the  above  is  the  eleventh 
century,  wlien  the  legend  burst  forth  in  several  parts  of  the 
world.  Here  we  have  it  in  Scotland.  Like  many  other  legends 
it  probably  came  or^inally  from  India. 

THE   TIME   OB   LE  GRAND    MONARQUE. 

Thackeray  draws  the  following  graphic  picture  of  the  ex- 
tremes of  society  in  Europe  in  the  time  of  Louis  XIV.  Rare- 
ly is  the  contrast  between  "the  boast  of  heraldry,  the  pomp  of 
power,"  and  "the  short  and  simple  annals  of  the  poor,"  de- 
lineated with  such  masterly  vigoi-.  E«ferring  to  the  influence 
of  French  fashions  upon  the  German  courts,  he  says:— 

It  is  incalculable  how  much  that  royal  bigwig  cost  G^miany. 
Every  prince  imitated  the  French  king,  and  had  his  Versailles, 
his  Wilhelmshohe  or  Ludwigslust;  his  court  aud  its  splen- 
dors; his  gardens  laid  out  with  statues;  his  fountains,  and 
water-woi-ks,  and  Tritons;  his  actors,  and  danceia,  and  singers, 
and  fiddlers;  his  harem,  with  its  inhabitants;  his  diamonds  and 
duchies  for  these  lattei';  his  enormous  festivities,  his  gamiiig- 
tabies,  tournaments,  masquerades,  and  banquets  lasting  a  week 
long,  for  which  the  people  paid  with  their  money,  when  tlie 
poor  wretches  had  it;  with  their  bodies  and  very  blood  when 
they  had  none;  being  sold  in  thousands  by  their  lords  and  mas- 
ters, who  gaily  dealt  in  soldiers, — staked  a  regiment  upon  the 
red  at  the  gambling  table;  swapped  a  battalion  against  a  dan- 
cing-girl's diamond  necklace,  and,  as  it  were,  pocketed  their 

As  one  views  Europe,  through  contemporary  books  of  travel, 
in  the  early  part  of  the  last  century,    the  landscape  is  aw- 


lyClOOglC 


816  HISTOEICAL   MEMORANDA, 

ful — wretched  wastes,  beggarly  aad  plundered;  Iialf-bumed  cot- 
tages and  trembling  peaBants  gathering  piteous  harvests ;  gangs 
of  such  tramping  along  with  bayonets  behind  them,  and  cor- 
porals with  caues  and  eats-of-niae-tails  to  flog  them  to  barracks. 
By  these  passes  my  lord's  gilt  carriage,  floundering  through 
the  rats,  as  he  swears  at  the  postillions,  and  toils  on  to  the 
Eesideuz.  Hard  by,  but  away  from  the  noise  and  brawling  of 
the  citizens  and  buyers,  is  Wilhelraslust  or  Ludwigsruhe,  or  Mon- 
bijou,  or  Versailles — ^it  scai-cely  matters  which— near  to  the 
city,  shut  out  by  woods  from  the  beggared  country,  the  euor- 
mous,  hideous,  gilded,  monstrous  marble  palace,  where  the 
prince  is,  and  the  Court,  and  the  trim  gardens,  and  hngo  foan- 
tains,  and  the  forest  where  the  ragged  peaeante  are.  beating  the 
game  in  (it  is  death  to  them  to  touch  a  feather) ;  and  the  jolly 
hunt  sweeps  by  with  its  unifoi-m  of  crimson  and  gold;  and 
the  prince  gallops  ahead  puffing  bis  royal  horn;  and  his  lords 
and  mistresses  ride  afte.r  him ;  and  the  stag  is  pulled  down ;  and 
the  grand  huntsman  gives  the  knife  in  the  midst  of  a  chorus 
of  bugles;  and  'tis  time  the  court  go  home  to  dinner;  and  our 
noble  traveller,  it  may  be  the  Baron  of  PoUnitz,  or  the  Count 
de  Kbn^smarcfc,  or  the  excellent  Chevalier  de  Seingalt,  sees 
the  procession  gleaming  through  the  trim  avenues  of  the  wood, 
and  hastens  to  the  inn,  and  sends  his  noble  name  to  the  mar- 
shal of  the  court.  Then  our  nobleman  arrays  himself  in  green 
and  gold,  or  pink  and  silver,  in  the  richest  Paris  mode,  and  is 
introduced  by  the  chamberlain,  and  makfes  his  bow  to  the  jolly 
prince,  and  the  gracious  princess;  and  is  presented  to,  the  chief 
lords  and  ladies,  and  then  comes  supper  and  a  bank  at  Faro, 
where  he  loses  or  wins  a  thousand  pieces  by  daylight.  If  it 
is  a  German  court,  you  may  add  not  a  UttJo  drunkenness  to 
this  picture  of  h^  life;  but  German,  or  French,  or  Spanish, 
if  you  can  see  out  of  your  palace-windows  beyond  the  trim-cut 
forest  vistas,  misery  m  lying  outside ;  hunger  is  stalking  about 
the  bare  villages,  listlessly  following  precarious  husbandry; 
ploughing  Stony  flelds  with  starved  cattle ;  or  fearfully  taking 


lyClOOglC 


HISTOaiCAL   MEMOEANDA.  §17 

in  scanty  harvests.  Auguatua  is  tat  and  jolly  on  his  throne ; 
he  can  knock  down  an  ox,  and  eat  one  almost;  bis  mifitress, 
Aurora  von  Kbuigsmarck,  is  the  loveliest,  the  wittiest  creature; 
his  diamonds  are  the  bluest  and  most  hrilliaat  in  the  world, 
and  his  feasts  i*.  splendid  as  thos*'  ot  V  rsiilles.  As  for  Louis 
the  Great  he  b  more  than  mcrtal  Iiiit  up  your  glances  re- 
spectfully ind  mark  him  eyeing  Madime  de  Fontanges  or 
Madame  de  Montespni  from  unler  his  sublime  periwig,  as  he 
passes  through  the  great  galltry  where  ViUars  and  Vendome, 
and  Beiwick  and  Bof^uct  and  MaasiDon  are  waiting,  Oaa 
Court  be  moie  splendid,  nobles  and  knights  more  gallant  and 
superb;  ladies  more  lovely?  A  grander  monarch,  or  a  more 
'miserable  starved  wretch  than  the  peasant  his  subject,  you  can- 
not louk  on  Let  ns  bear  both  these  typee  in  mind  if  we  wish 
to  estmiate  the  uld  siuety  piopeily  Remember  the  gloiy  and 
the  chivalry'  les'  Kemember  the  grice  ind  beauty  the 
splendor  and  lofty  politeness  the  gallant  courtesy  of  Fonte- 
noy  wheie  the  Irench  line  bids  the  j,entlemen  of  the  English 
£,uatd  to  fire  first  the  noble  ronstaney  of  the  nld  kins  and  Vil 
lara  his  genera)  who  fata  out  the  list  irmy  with  the  latit  crown 
piece  from  the  treasury  and  goes  t(  meet  the  enemy  ind  die 
or  cmquer  f^r  France  at  Denain  But  rtund  all  that  royal 
splendor  hes  a  nation  enslaved  and  ruined  there  are  people 
robbed  jf  their  nghti — communities  l-ud  waste — tilth  justice, 
crmnjerf«  tRunpled  upon  and  well  nigh  d«itroyeJ— nay  in 
the  very  eentre  of  royalty  itself  what  horrible  stains  and 
meanness  cnme  and  shame '  It  is  but  to  a  Billy  h  irlot  thit 
s<.me  of  (he  njblest  gentlemen  and  sime  of  the  proudett  wo 
men  in  the  worli  are  bowing  djwn  it  is  the  pru  e  of  a  miseri 
hie  province  that  the  km;;  ties  m  diamonds  lOund  his  mis 
treass  white  neck  In  the  fiist  half  of  the  k't  cenlury  this 
18  going  on  ill  Europe  over  Sixony  is  a  waste  is  n  ell  is  Pi 
cirly  or  \i-t  i  and  Ver-iiUei  i^  only  larger  ind  not  wur-e 
than  H  ricubausen 


lyGoogle 


itemoranda; 

the  biter  bit. 

Jerry  White,  the  Chaplain  to  Cromwell,  carried  his  ambition 
so  fer  aa  to  think  of  becoming  son-in-law  to  his  Highness, 
by  marrying  his  daughter,  the  lady  Frances;  and  ag  Jerry  had 
those  requisites  that  generally  please  the  fair  ses,  he  won  the 
affections  of  the  young  lady ;  but  aa  nothing  of  this  sort  could 
happen  without  tho  knowledge  of  the  watchful  father,  who  had 
hia  spies  in  every  place,  and  about  every  person,  it  soon  reached 
his  ears.  There  were  as  weighty  reasons  for  rejecting  Jenj  as 
there  had  been  for  dismissing  His  Majesty  Charles  II.,  who  had 
been  proposed  by  the  Earl  of  Orrery  as  a  husband.  Oliver 
therefore,  ordered  the  informer  to  observe  and  watch  them  nar- 
rowly ;  and  promised  that  upon  substantial  proof  of  the  truth  of 
what  he  had  declared,  he  should  be  aa  amply  rewarded  as  Jeny 
severely  punished.  It  was  not  long  before  the  informer  ac- 
quainted his  Highness  that  the  Ohaplftin  was  then  with  the  lady-; 
and  upon  hastening  to  his  daughter's  apartment,  he  discovered 
the  unfortunate  Jerry  upon  his  knees,  kissing'  her  Ladyship's 
hand :  seeing  which,  ho  hastily  exclaimed,  "  What  is  the  mean- 
ing of  this  posture  before  my  daughter  Frances  ?"  The  Chap- 
lain, with  great  presence  of  mind,  replied,  "  May  it  please  your 
H^hness,  I  have  a  long  time  courted  that  young  gentlewoman 
there,  my  lady's  woman,  and  cannot  prevail :  I  was  therefore 
humbly  praying  her  Ladyship  to  intercwie  for  me,"  Oliver, 
turning  to  the  waiting-woman,  smd" — "What  is  the  meaning  of 
this?  He  is  my  friend,  and  I  expect  you  should  treat  him  as 
such ; "  who,  desiring  nothing  more,  replied,  with  a  low  courtesy, 
"  If  Mr.  White  intends  me  that  honor,  I  shall  not  oppose 
him,"  Upon  which  Oliver  said,  "We'll  eall  Goodwin;  this 
business  shall  he  done  presently,  before  I  go  out  of  the  room." 
Jerry  could  not  retreat.  G-oodwin  came,  and  they  were  in- 
stantly married, — the  bride,  at  the  same  time,  receiving  £500 
from  the  Protector, 

Mr.  Jerry  White  lived  with  this  wife  (not  of  his  choice)  more 
than  fifty  yeaiS.     Oldmixou    says  he  knew  both  him   and 


lyGoogle 


Historical  mbmoeanda. 


Mrs.  White,  and  heard  the 
at  which  time  Mrs.  White 


told  when  they  were  present; 
'ere  w£«  eomcthmg 


Of  all  the  prisons  of  Paris,  the  Coneiergerie  is  the  most  inter- 
esting, from  its  antiquity,  associations,  and  mixed  style  of  archi- 
tecture,— uniting  as  it  were  the  horrors  of  the  dungeons  of  the 
Middle  Ages  with  the  more  humane  system  of  confinement  of 
the  present  century.  It  exhibits  in  ite  mongre!  outline  the  pro- 
gressive ameliorations  of  humaoifj  toward  criminals  and  offen- 
ders,— forming  a  connecting  link  between  feudal  barbarity  and 
modern  civilization.  Situated  in  the  heart  of  old  Paris,  upon 
the  lie  de  la  Cit^,  separated  fronl  the  Seino  by  the  Quw  do 
I'Horoioge,  it  is  one  of  a  cluster  of  edifices  pregnant  with  sou- 
venirs of  tragedy  and  romance.  These  buildings  are  the  Sainte 
Chapolle,  the  Prefecture  de  Folice,  and  the  Palais  de  Justice, 
formerly  the  residence  of  the  Freneh  monarohs.  The  Coneier- 
gerie, which  derives  its  name  from  concierge,  or  keeper,  was 
anciently  the  prison  of  the  palace.  It  is  now  chiefly  used  as 
a  place  of  detention  for  persons  during  their  trial.  Keeent  altera- 
tions have  greatly  diminished  the. gloomy  and  forbidding  effect 
of  its  exterior;  but  suflSeient  of  its  old  character  remans  to  per- 
petuate the  associations  connected  with'  its  former  uses,  and  to 
preserve  for  it  its  interest  as  a  relic  of  feudalism  The  names 
of  the  two  turrets  flanking  the  gateway.  Tour  de  Cfear,  and 
Tour  Boubec,  smaok  of  antiquity.  Compared  with  Caesar,  how- 
ever, its  age  is  quite  juvenile,  being  less  than  nine  hundred  years. 

The  oldest  legible  entry  in  the  archives  of  the  Coneiergerie 
is  that  of  the  r^cide  Ravmllac,  who  was  incarcerated  May  16, 
1610.  Among  the  memorable  nam^  on  its  register  are  those  of 
Damicns,  who  attempted  the  Hfe  of  Louis  XV". ;  Bleonore 
GaligM,  the  confidante  of  Marie  de  Medicis;  La  Voisine,  the 
famous  female  poisoner,  who  succeeded  Madame  de  Brinvilliers ; 
Cartouche  the  noted  robber,  and  high  above  them  all  in  point 


lyGoogle 


820  HISTORICAL 

of  tragic  interest,  the  innoeent  and  unfortunate  queen,  Marie 
Antoinette. 

The  records  of  thia  prison  furnish  extraordinary  illnatratioQs 
of  stoicism  in  the  midst  of  ciril  calamity,  and  its  walls  bear  wit- 
ness to  almost  inconceivable  indifference  to  the  mastery  of  vio- 
lence. We  koow  that  there  is  no  social  upheaval  to  which  human 
nature,  with  its  versatility  of  powers  for  good  or  evO,  may  not 
become  accustomed,  and  if  the  condition  be  inevitable,  even 
become  reeoneiled.  But  the  oonduot  of  the  prisoners  of  thp  Con- . 
ciergerie,  in  many  instances,  tinged  as  it  was  with  mingled  sub- 
limity and  folly,  surpasses  comprehension.  During  tlie  Reign  of 
Ten'or  they  were  almost  daily  decimated  by  the  guillotine;  yet 
their  constant  wmmsmnent  was  to  play  at  cbaradee  and  the-r-yKi/- 
htins.  Both  sexes  and  all  ranks  assembled  in  one  of  the  halls. 
They  formed  a  revolutionary  tribunal — choosing  accusers  and 
judges,  and  parodiaing  the  gestures  and  voice  of  Fouijuier  Tia- 
ville  and  his  coadjutors.  Defenders  were  named ;  the  accused 
were  taken  at  hazard.  The  sentence  of  death  followed  close  on  the 
heels  of  the  accusation.  They  simulated  the  toilet  of  the  con-, 
demned,  preparing  the  neck  for  the  knife  by  feigning  to  cut  the 
hair  and  collar.  The  sentenced  were  attached  to  a  chair  reversed 
to  represent  the  guillotine.  The  knife  was  of  wood,  and  as  it 
fell,  the  individual,  male  or  female,  thus  sporting  with  their  ap- 
proaching fiite,  tumbled  down  as  if  actually  struck  by  the  iron 
blade.  Often  while  engaged  in  ihhplai/,  they  were  interrupted 
by  the  terrible  voice  of  the  public  crier,  calling  uver  the  "  names 
of  the  brigands  who  to-day  have  gwncd  the  lottery  of  the  holy 
guillotine." 

But  aipong  the  curious  souvenirs  of  this  celebrated  jail,  the 
most  memorable  is  that  of  the  last  night  of  the  Girondists,  th^t 
unique  festivity  which  was  certainly  the  grandest  triumph  of  phi- 
losophy in  the  annals  of  human  events.  Those  fierce,  theoretical 
deputies,  who  had  so  recently  sent  to  the  scaffold  the  King  and 
Queen  of  France,  were  now  in  turn  on  their  way  thither. 
Christianity  teaches  men  to  live  in  peaceful  humility,  and  to  die 


lyClOOglC 


HISTOEIOAL   MEMORANDA. 


821 


With  h )[  rfu!  resignation.  The  last  hour  of  a  true  believer  is 
cahnly  joy  us  Here  was  an  opportunity  for  infidelity  to  assert 
ito  BupLnonty  in  death,  as  it  had  elaimed  for  itself  the  greatest 
good  m  bfe  Let  us  he  just  to  even  these  deluded  men,  They 
had  played  a  teinble  r61e  in  the  history  of  their  eountrj,  and' 
they  it,''igned  ilieinselves  to  die  with  the  same  intrfepidity  with 
which  th  y  had  staked  their  existence  upon  the  success  of  their 
pohcy  Ihey  made  it  a  death  fete,  each  smiling  as  he  awaited 
tiie  dread  m^itage,  and  devoting  his  latest  moments  to  those 
disphya  )f  inti,Uectual  rivalry  jthieh  had  so  long  united  them 
in  hte  Mamvielle,  Ihicos,  Gensonn6,  and  Eoyer  FonfrMe 
abandoned  themselves  to  gayety,  wit  and  revelry,  repeating  their 
own  verses  with  friendly  rivalry,  and  atimulating  their  compa- 
nions to  every  species  of  infidel  folly.  Vigor  sang  amorous  songs ; 
Duprat  related  a  tale;  GensonnS  repeated  the  Marseillaise; 
while  VeigHiaud  alternately  electrified  them  with  his  eloquence, 
ir  discoursed  philosophically  of  their  past  history,  and  the  un- 
known future  upon  which  they  were  about  to  enter.  The  dis- 
(us-sion  on  poetry,  literature,  and  general  topics,  was  animated 
and  bnlliant  on  God,  religion,  the  immortality  of  the  soul, 
grwe  eIoqut,nt  cj.hn  atid  poetic.  The  walls  of  the  prison  echoed 
t  a  lat*"  hour  in  the  morning  to  thdv  patriotic  cries,  and  were 
witr  eises  to  then  fraternal  embraces.  The  corpse  of  ValazS,  the 
only  one  of  the  i  number  who  by  a  voluntary  death  eluded  the 
sc  iflold  remiined  with  them. 

The  whole  scene  was  certainly  the  wildest  and  most  dramatic 
evei  born  of  courage  and  reason.  Yet  throughout  their  enthusi- 
asm theie  appears  a  chill  of  uncertainty,  and  an  intellectual  cold- 
ness that  appals  the  conscience.  We  feel  that  for  the  Girond- 
liits  it  was  a  consistent  sacrifice  to  their  theories  and  their  lives ; 
but  for  a  Chnstian  and  patriot,  a  sad  and  unedifying  spectacle. 

While  history  cannot  refute  the  tribute  of  admiration  to  high 
qualities,  even  when  misdirecled,  it  is  equally  bound  to  record 
the  errors  and  repeat  the  warnings  of  those  who  claim  a  place 
in  its  pagos.    The  lives  of  the  Girondists,  as  well  as  their  deaths, 


lyGoogle 


822  HISTORICAL 

formed  a  confused  drama  of  loftj  aspirations,  generous  sentiments 
and  noble  sacrifloee,  mingled  with  error,  passion  and  folly. 
Their  eharacter  presents  all  the  cold  hrilliancy  of  flre-works, 
which  excite  our  admiration  only  to  be  chiUed-with  disappoint- 
ment at  their  speedy  eclipse.  Their  death-scene  was  emphatically 
a  ^eetacle.  It  exhibited  neither  the  simple  grandeur  of  the 
death  of  Socrates,  nor  the  calm  and  trustful  spirit  that  charac- 
terized the  dying  moments  of  Washington ;  the  one  yielding  up 
his  spirit  as  a  heathen  philosopher ;  ■  the  other  dying  as  a  Chris- 
tain  statesman. 

QUEEN   ELIZABETH   AND   THE  KINO. 

Coneeming  the  love-token  whiuh  Quien  Elizd,beth  gave  to 
Esses,  with  an  intimation  that  if  he  forfeited  her  fiivor  it-i  retui  ii 
would  secure  her  forgiveness.  Miss  StnokLind  quotes  the  te  ti 
mony  of  Lady  Spelmau,  who  '^lys  thdt  when  Essex  lay  unlet 
sentence  of  death,  he  deterrmned  to  try  the  virtui  of  the  rin^ 
by  sending  it  to  the  queen,  and  daiming  the  benefit  of  hci 
promise;  but  knowing  he  was  surrounded  by  the  creature^  ol 
those  who  where  hent  on  taking  hi8  life  he  was  fearful  of 
trusting  it  to  any  of  his  attendants  At  length  looking  ont  uf 
his  window,  he  saw  early  one  morning  a  hoy  whose  eoantenanoe 
pleased  him,  and  him  he  induced  by  a  bribe  to  carry  the  ring,, 
which  he  threw  down  to  him  from  above,  to  the  Lady  Scrope, 
his  coKiin,  who  had  taken  so  friendly  interest  in  his  fate.  The 
boy,  by  mistake,  carried  it  to  the  Countess  of  Nottingham,  the 
oraei  sister  of  the  far  and  gentle  Scrope,  and,  as  both  these 
ladies  were  of  the  royal  bedchamber,  the  mista,ke  might  easily 
occur.  The  countess  carried  the  ring  to  her  husband  the  Lord 
Admiral,  who  was  the  deadly  foe  of  Essex,  and  told  him  the 
message,  but  he  bade  her  suppress  both.  The  queen,  unconscious 
of  the  aocident,  waited  in  the  painful  suspense  of  an  angry  lover 
for  the  expected  token  to  arrive;  but  not  receiving  it,  she  coh- 
clnded  he  was  too  proud  to  make  this  last  appeal  to  her  tender- 
ness, and,  after  having  once  revoked. the  warrant,  she  ordered 
the  execution  to  proceed. 


lyGoogle 


ittultum  in  ^atbo. 


Peioe,  says  Leigh.  Hunt,  wrote  one  trulj  loving  vdrse,  if  no 
other.  It  is  in  his  Sohmon.  The  monareh  is  speaking  of  a 
female  slave,  who  had  a,  real  affection  for  him- — ■ 

And  when  I  called  another,  Abra  came. 

Coleridge  says  that  Noah's  Ark  affords  a  fine  image  of  the 
world  at  large,  bs  containing  a  very  few  men,  and  a  great  num- 
ber of  beasts.  

The  boxes  which  govern  the  world  are  the  caitridge-box, 
thc:haHotr^hos,  the  jury-box,  aad  the  band-box. 

There  are  cerbiin  things  upon  whieh  even  a  wise  man  must  be 
content  to  be  ignorant.  "I  cannot  fiddle,"  said  Themistocles, 
"but  I  can  take  a  city."       

Sir  Thomas  Overhury  add  of  a  man  who  boasted  of  his  an- 
cestry, that  he  was  like  a  potato — the  best  thing  belonging 
to  him  was  under  the  ground. 

"Go  and  see  Oarlini"  (the  famous  Neapolitan  comedian),  said 
a  physician  to  a  patient,  who  came  to  consult  him  upon  habitual 
depression  of  spirits.  "I  am  Carlini,"  said  the  man. 

The  words  AhstemiouslT/  and  Facetiously  contain  all  the 
vowels  in  consecutive  order. 

When  Mr.  Pitt's  enemies  objected  to  George  III.  that  he  was 
too  young,  his  Majesty  answered;  "That  is  an  objection  the 
force  of  which  will  he  weakened  every  day  he  lives," 


lyGoogle 


The  clock  that  standa  still,  pointe  right  twice  ia  the  four-and- 
twenty  hours;  wbUe  others  may  keep  going  continualljj  and  be 
continually  going  wrong.       

The  Mexicans  say  to  their  new-born  ofiapring,  "  Child,  thou 
art  come  into  the  world  to  suffer.     Endure,  and  hold  thy  peace." 


Balzac  makes  mention  of  a  man  who  never  uttered  his  own 
name  without  taking  off  his  hat,  as  a  mark  of  revereoee  for  the 
exalted  appellation. 

G-ibbon  says;  As  long  as  mankind  shall  continue  to  bestow 
more  liberal  applause  on  their  destroyers  than  on  th  eir  ■benefactors 
the  thirst  of  military,  glory  will  ever  be  the  vice  of  the  most 
exalted  ch'tracters 

In  the  works  of  Prot  Thorn  s  f  o  pei  it  a  &d  d  — M  inki  d 
pay  best  1  Those  who  destroy  tl  em  heroes  lud  warriors 
J  Those  who  oheit  them  statesmen  priests  an  I  quad  s 
3  Those  wbrnmuse  tl  en  )s  a  r^ers  actors  dan  i'j  and  nov  1 
wnt^Ti  But  ledst  if  ill  tho  e  who  "ipeiL  the  truth  al 
instn  (,t  them  

Wis  lights  tli<ngh  we  are  ae  ustrmel  to  overl  ok  the  f  it 
and  rmk  them  with  ordinary  commonplaces  aie  true  f  ury 
taj  ers — a  white  metainorjhoais  irom  tlie  flowers  crowned 
with  the  most  mtao^it  le  of  all  visil  le  mysteries — fire 

An  illustration  of  false  emphasis  is  supplied  by  the  verse, 
(I.  Kings^siii.  27,)  "And  he  spoke  to  his  sons,  saying,  Saddle 
me  the  ass.      And  they  saddled  hm,." 

Shakspearc,  in  the  compss  of  a  line,  has  described  a  thorough- 
ly charming  girl : — 

PiBttj,  and  witty;  wild,  and  jet,  foo,  ganlla. 


lyClOOglC 


MtJLTUM   IN   PARVO. 

The  foundation  of  domestic  happiness  is  confidejioe  in 
virtue  of  woman ;  tte  fouudatiott  of  political  happiness  i 
lianoe  on  the  integrity  of  man ;  the  fouudation  of  all  real  hs 
neas,  temporal  and  spiritual,  present  and  eternal,  is  faith  in 
mercy  of  God  through  Jesus  Christ,  and  Him  crucified. 


BueUingham's  Epitaph  on  Thomas  Lord  Fairfiix: 
He  might  have  been  a  Kiug, 

But  that  lie  understood 

How  much  it  is  a  manner  thing 

To  be  unjuatlj  gii:a.t,  l^han  honorQbly  good 


A  fevorite  exclamation  of  the  Parisian  mob,  who  must  always 
have  a  "inva"  something  or  other,  became  during  the  Revolu- 
tion, "vive  la  mart!"  

Alphonso,  King  of  Ar^on,  in  his  judgment  of  human 
life,  declared  that  there  were  only  four  things  in  this  world 
worth  living  for:  "Old  wine  to  drink,  old  wood  to  bum,  old 
books  to  read,  and  old  friends  to  converse  with." 


David  refers  to  a  good  old  fonn  of  salutation  and  valediction 
in  Psalm  cssis.  8 : — 

"  The  blessing  of  the  Lord  he  upon  you ;  we  bless  jou  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord."  

An  eastern  sage  being  desired  to  inscribe  on  the  ring  of  his 
Sultan  a  motto,  equally  applicable  to  prosperity  or  adversity, 
returned  it  with  these  words  engraved  upon  the  surfecei  "And 
this,  too,  shall  pass  away." 

Oliver  Cromwell's  grace  before  dinner : — ■ 

Some  have  meat,  but  cannot  eat, 
And  Bome  can  eat,  but  have  not  meat. 
And  so— tli8  Lord  be  pcaiaed. 


lyGoogle 


Eife  anU  ©tatfj. 


All  death  In  natnte  is  bktii,  and  Id  death  appears  visiblj  the  adTanoBmenl 
of  life.  There  is  no  kiffing  principle  in  aahiro,  for  nature  throngbout  is  life : 
it  ia  not  deatb  that  kills,  hat  the  higher  life,  whieb,  oenoealed  behind  tbe 
other,  begins  to  develop  itaol£  Death  and  birth  eie  bnt  tte  atmggle  of  life 
in  ahigher  foriii.-7-PicuTE. 

came  in  tbe  looming, — it  was  Bpring> 


BEAUTIFUL   ILLCSTItATlONS   OF   LIFE. 

What  a  fine  passage  is  that  of  Bishop  Hebee,  wtich  is  said 
to  have  suggested  to  Cole  his  justly-famed  series  of  paintings, 
entitled  The  Voyage  0/ Id/el 

Life  bears  us  on  like  the  stream  gf  a  mighty  river.  Our 
boat  at  first  glides  swiftly  down  the  narrow  channel,  through 
the  playfiil  murraurings  of  the  little  brook  and  the  windings 
of  its  grassy  borders  :  the  trees  shed  tteir  blossoms  over  our 
young  beads,  and  the  flowers  on  the  brink  seem  to  ofler  them- 
selves to  our  young  hands;  we  rejoice  in  hope,  and  grasp 
eagerly  at  the  beauties  around  as;  but  the  stream  hurries  us 
on,  and  stJU  our  hands  are  empty. 

Our  course  in  youth  and  manhood  ia  along  a  wider  and 
deeper  flood,  and  amid  objects  more  striking  and  magnificent. 
We  are  animated  by  the  moving  picture  of  enjoyment  and  indus- 
try  that  is  passing  before  us;  we  are  excited  by  some  short-lived 
Buooess,  or  depressed  and  rendered  miserable  by  some  short- 
lived disappointment.  But  our  enei^y  and  dependence- are 
alike  in  vain.  The  stream  bears  ua  on,  and  our  joys  and  griefs 
are  left  behind  us :  we  may  be  shipwrecked,  but  we  cannot 


lyClOOglC 


IlMB    AND    REATH.  827 

anohcff;  our  voyage  may  be  liaiStened,  but  cannot  be  delayed; 
whether  rough  or  smooth,  the  river  haHtena  toward  its  homo  ; 
the  roaring  of  the  Waves  is  beneatJi  our  keel,  the  land  lessens 
froni  our  eyes,  the  floods  are  lifted  up  arouad  us,  and  vre  take 
our  last  leave  of  earth  and  its  iahabitants,  and  of  our  future 
voyage  there  is  no  witness  save  the  Infinite  and  the  Eternal  1 

THE  ROUND   01  LIFE. 

From  the  Aphorisms  of  Dr.  Home,  Bishop  of  Norwich  : — 


nlreaOng,— som 
are  waeping;— bo 
ara  thic3ting,-eo 

relieving; 
nears  laughing  i 
ma  ara  quaffing ; 

aooeptiog,— soma 
ore  tbriftj,— aonj 
ompcUing, — som 

abusing ; 

are  flatle 

J6  pome 

ire  mode 

t,-aom 

fl,re  help. 

a  ara  harming; 

iepaiting,— soma 

abiding; 

are  send 

og,— son 

earebtiQging: 

are  haari 

g,-aom 
og,— son 

ara  singing; 

Some  ptofesslng, — eomi 
Some  are  silent,— some 
Some  are  restiTa,— somi 
Borne  preserving, — 


-soma  me  grinding; 


lyClOOglC 


finmn 

-SOinBD 

Kon." 

are  quiet,— 8om 

diapBt 

Hnmfi 

confuted  and  ao 

futing 

fcioinB 

are  resting,— ao 

neaspir 

K»in« 

mdnfing,- aom 

deTidi 

fimm 

are  fsUiDg,— son 

These 

ore  euffideot  to 

recite, 

ROLES   OP  MVING. 

Ji-oiB  See.  Svgh  PeUi-s'  Legany  Ui  Ma  Dimghter. 

London,  i.D.  1B60. 

Wliosoever  irould  live  ioQg  and  blessedly,  let  him  observe 
tliese  following  rul^,  by  which  he  shall  attain  to  that  which 
lie  deaireth  :— 

Let  thj 
Thonghta    Tie  divine,  awful,  godly. 
Talk  —  little,  honest,  tme. 

Worka         —  profilablB,  holy,  chaiitable. 
Mannera      —  grave,  eourteoua,  oheernil. 

Apparel       —  sober,  neat,  oonicly. 
Will  —  oenfidont,  obedient,  ready. 

Sleep  —  moderate,  quiet,  aeaaonable. 

Prayers       —  short,  devout,  often,  fervent. 
Reoieation  —  lawful,  brief,  seldom. 
Memory       —  of  death,  punishment^  glory.. 

DR.  franklin's   moral   CODE. 

The  great  American  philosopher  and  statesman,  Benjamin 
Franklin,  drew  up  tie  following  list  of  moral  virtues,  to  which 
ho  paid  constant  and  earnest  attention,  and  thereby  made  him- 
self a  better  and  happier  man  : — 

Temperance. — Eat  not  to  fulness;  drink  not  to  elevation. 

Silence. — Speak  not  but  what  may  benefit  others  or  your- 
self; avoid  trifing  conversation. 

Order. — Let  all  your  things  bave  their  places;  lot  each  part 
of  your  business  have  ita  time. 


lyClOOglC 


UrE  AND   DEATH.  829 

Resolution. — Ecsolve  to  perform  what  you  ougLt;  perform 
without  fail  what  you  resolve, 

Frugalily. — Make  no  espouse,  hut  do  good  to  others  aa 
yourself;  that  is,  waste  notliing. 

Induetri/. — Lose  no  time,  be  always  craployed  in  something 
useful ;  hut  avoid  all  nnneoessarj  actions. 

Smcerit^. — Use  no  hurtful  deceit;  think  innocently  and 
justly;  and,  if  you  speak,  speak  aeeordingly. 

Justice. — Wrong  no  one  hy  doing  injuries,  or  omitting  the 
benefits  that  are  your  duty, 

Moderation. — Avoid  extremes;  forhear  resenting  injuries. 

Cleanliness. — Suffer  no  unoleanliness  in  body,  clothes,  or 
habitation , 

Tranqiiillity. — Be  not  disturbed  about  trifles,  or  at  accidents 
common  or  unavoidable. 

Sumilitt/. — Imitate  Jesus  Christ. 

EMPLOYMENT  OE   TIME. 

The  celebrated  Lord  Coke  wrote  the  subjomed  couplet, 
which  he  religiously  observed  in  the  distribution  of  time  : — 

Sis  hours  to  sleep,— to  law's  grave  stadiea  sis,— 
Pour  spent  in  projer,— the  i-eat  to  nature  fix. 

But  Sir  WiHiam  Jones,  a  wiser  economist  of  the  fleeting 
hours  of  life,  amended  the  sentence  in  the  followiug  lines  : — ■ 

Sevcp  hours  to  law, — to  soothing  slamher  seven, — 
Tea  to  the  world  allot,— and  a,ll  to  heaven. 

LIVING  LIFE   OVER  AGAIN. 

Good  Sir  Thomas  Browne  says.  Though  I  think  no  man  can 
live  well  once  but  he  that  cduld  live  twice,  yet  for  my  own  part 
I  would  not  live  over  my  hours  past,  nor  begin  again  theihread 
of  my  days;  not  upon  Cicero's  ground, — because  I  have  lived 
them  well, — but  for  fear  I  should  live  them  worse.  I  find  my 
growing  judgment  daily  instruct  me  how  to  be  better,  but  my 
untamed  affections  and  oonflrmed  vitiosity  make  me  daily  do 
worse.  I  find  in  my  confirmed  age  the  same  sins  I  discovered 
in  my  youth;  I  committed  many  then,  because  I  was  a  child, 
70 


lyClOOglC 


e  I  oofflmit  them  stUI,  I  am  yet  an  infant.  There- 
I  perceive  a  man  may  be  twice  a  cliild  before  the  daya  of 
^e,  and  stand  in  need  of  ^aon's  bath  bef 

RHYMING  DEMNITI0N8. 


Wealth.— A  bo 

roe  of  trouMe  and  consuming  core. 

PLEAsniis,— A  gleam  of  Eunaiime,  paEsing  soon  away. 

LOTE.— A  moraine  stream  wtoBe  meraorj  gilda  the  day. 

Faith.— An  ariobor  dropped  beyond  the  Tale  of  death. 

Hope.' — A  lone  star  beamiBg  o'er  the  harren  heath. 

Chabiiy.— A  stream  meandering  from  the  fount  of  Ioto 

Bible.— A  guide  to  realms  of  endless  joy  aboTe. 

Rklioioh.— A  Sej  dhioh  opens  wide  the  gates  of  Heav 

Death.— A  knife  by  whieh  the  ties  of  earlli  are  riven. 

Earth.— A  aoBort  through  which  pilgrims  wend  their  w 

Sravb.— A  home  aS,  teat  when  ends  life's  ireary  day. 

Eesdhrbotion. — ^A  sudden  waiting  ftom  a  quiet  dream. 

Heaven.— A  land  of  joy,  of  light  and  lore  supreme. 

EARTH- 

What  is  earth,  sexton  ?— A  place  to  dig  grnres. 

What  ia  earth 

rich  man  ? — A  plaQS  to  work  slaroa. 

What  is  earth 

greybeard  ? — A  place  to  grow  old. 

What  is  earth 

miser  ?— A  place  to  dig  gold.        _^ 

What  is  eartli 

achool-boy  ?— A  plana  for  my  pUy. 

What  is  earth 

maiden  ?—A  place  to  be  gay. 

What  Is  earth 

What  la  earth 

sluggard  ? — A  good  place  to  sleep. 

Wh^  ia  earth 

soldier  7— A  place  for  a  battle.     , 

What  ia  earth 

herdatoan  ?— A  place  lo  raise  eatlle. 

What  is  earth 

widow?— A  place  of  true  sorrow. 

Whatisaartl. 

tradesmaD  f— I'll  tell  you  to-morrow. 

What  is  earth 

sick  man  ?— "Ks  nothing  to  me. 

What  ia  earth 

aailoF7—My  home  ia  the  saa. 

What  is- earth 

statesman?— A  pla^e  to  win  fame. 

What  Is  earth 

author  ?— Ill  write  there  my  name. 

What  is  earth 

monarch  ?— For  my  realm  it  ia  given. 

Wh^t  is  earth 

Christian F— The  gatowaj  of  heaven! 

RHYMING  CHARTER. 


The  following -grant  of  William  the  Conqu(ror  may  be  found 
in  Stowe's  Chronicle  and  in  Blount's  A-ncient  Tenures  : — 


lyGoogle 


To  lis  Bears  Male  0/  (he  Ifoplon,  law/iiUi 


0  thee 


WhilB  tho  ' 

For  laek  of  hajrs  to  tio  king  againe, 

I,  WiUiam,  iing,  tte  Ihird  year  of  m 

GiTB  to  the  Norman  huatar, 

To  me  that  art  both  line«  and  doare. 

The  Hop  and  the  Hoptounei 

And  all  the  bounds  up  and  donne. 

Undel  the  oarth  to  bell, 

Abova  the  earth  ffl  heaveD, 


From 


dfroi 


myna 


To  thee  and  to  thjne ; 
As  good,  aid  as  fairs 
As  ever  thay  mjne  ware. 


And  mj  third  bod  Henery, 

For  ona  bow,  and  one  broad  arrow, 

When  I  come  to  bunt  upon  Yarrow. 

NICE    QUESTIONS    FOR    I.AWTKI1S. 

A  gentleman,  who  died  in  Paris,  left  a  legacy  of  S6000  to 
hia  niece  in  Dubuque,  Iowa,  wlio  it  appears  also  died  about  the 
same  hour  of  the  same  day.  The  question  which,  died  first 
turns  upon  the  relation  of  solar  to  true  time,  and  must  be  de- 
cided by  the  difference  of  longitude.  If  the  nieee  died  at  four 
o'clock  A.M.,  and  her  uncle  at  ten  o'clock  a.m.,  the  instants  of 
their  death  wouLi  have  been  identieal.  Assuming  that  to  be 
the  hour  of  the  testator's  death,  if  the  niece  died  at  any  hour 
between  four  and  ten,  although  the  legacy  would  apparently 
revert  to  his  estate,  it  would  really  vest  in  her  and  her  heirs, 
since  by  solar  time  she  would  have  actually  survived  her 
unole. 

Another  case  where  great  importance  depended  upon  the  pre- 
cise time  of  death  was  that  of  the  lat«  Earl  Fitzhardinge,  who 
died  "about  midnight,"  between  October  10th  and  11th.    His 


lyGoogle 


rents,  amounting  to  £40,000  a  year,  were  payable  on  Old  Lady 
i!ay  and  Old  Michaelmas-day.  The  latter  fell  this  year  (1857) 
on  Sunday,  October  11,  and  the  day  began  at  midniglit;  so  that 
if  he  died  hefore  twelve,  the  rents  belonged  to  the  parties  taking 
the  estate ;  but  if  after,  they  belonged  to  and  formed  part  of  hia 
personal  estate.  The  difference  of  one  minute  might  therefore . 
inTolvB  the  question  as  to  the  title  of  £20,000. 

THE   BONE   NOT  DBSCEIBED  BY   MODERN   ANATOMISTS. 
God  formed  th6n(.il'om  the  dust,  and  Hb  on'ee  more 
WiU  give  them  atroagth  and  beauV  aa  before. 
Though  Blienn  ea  widely  as  tis  deaert  oir, 
As  winds  cnn  ivaft  them,  or  the  waters  bear. 

The  Emperor  Adrian — the  skeptie  whose  epigrammatic  ad- 
dress to  hia  soul  in  prospect  of  death,' 

Animula,  vagalo,  blandula,*  Ac, 

is  well  tnown— asked  Rahhi  Joshua  Ben  Hananiah,  in  the 
course  of  an  interview  following  the  successful  siege  of  Bitter, 
"  How  doth  a  man  revive  again  in  the  world  to  come  ?"  He 
answered  and  said,  "  From  ins,  in  the  back-bone."  Saith  he 
to  him,  "  Demonstrate  this  to  me,"  Then  he  took  Jyiiz,  a  iittle 
bono  out  of  the  back-hone,  and  put  it  in  water,  and  it  was  not 
steeped;  he  put  it  into  the  fire,  and  it  was  not  burned;  he 
brought  it  to  the  mill,  and  that  could  not  grind  it;  he  laid  it 
on  the  anvil  and  knocked  it  with  a  hammer,  but  the  anvil  was 
cleft,  and  the  hammer  broken. 

The  name  Luz  is  probably  deriTcd  from  Grenesis  xlviii.  S, 
where,  however,  it  refers  to  a  place,  not  to  a  bone.  The  bone 
alluded  to  is  the  sacrum,  the  terminal  wedge  of  the  vertebral 
column.     Butler,  in  his  Hudibras,  erroneously  traces  to  the 

»  Bi/ron'a  Translation. 
Ah  !  gentla,  flaeting,  wavering  aprita,' 
Priand  and  aaaodate  of  this  clay  I 

To  what  unlinown  region  borno, 
Wilt  thon  not  wing  thy  diatnnt  flight  P 
Ho  more  with  wonted  humor  gay, 

But  pallid,  cbcerloss,  and  forloni. 


lyGoogle 


LIFE   AND   DEATH.  8^3 

Rabbinie  belief  the  modern  name  os  sacrum,  its  origin  really 
beiDg  due  to  the  custom  of  placing  it  upon  the  altar  in  ancient 
sacrifices. 

The  Uarned  Babbins  of  tha  Jews 

Write,  Ibere'a  n  bona,  wbieh  thej  call  £ui 

T  til'  rump  of  man,  of  such  a  virtue 

No  force  in  nature  can  do  hurt  to; 

And  therefore  at  the  last  great  day 

AH  th'  other  mambera  shall,  Ihay  saj. 

Spring  out  of  thiE,  aa  from  a  seed 

All  sorts  of  vegelEila  proceed; 

From  whence  the  learned  sons  of  art 

On  SBO-um  justly  Btjlo  that  purL—Hudibrai. 

DYING  WOEDS  01"  DISTIHGUISHI 
There  taught  na  how  to  live;  and— oh,  i 
A  prioa  tor  knowledge !— taught  us  how 

Weeping  thou  sat'st,  while  all  aroand  tl 
So  live  that,  sinking  in  thy  last  long  ale. 
Calm  thou  mayst  amila  while  all  around 


.Napoleon. — T6te  d'Arm^e ! 

Sir  Waller  RaUigh..--~it  matters  little  how  the  head  lieth. 

Goethe. — Let  the  light  enter. 

Tasso. — Into  thy  hands,  0  Lord. 

Aljieri. — Clasp  my  hand,  my  dear  friend;  I  die. 

Martin  Luther. — Father  in  Heaven,  though  this  body  is 
breaking  away  from  me,  and  I  am  departing  tJiis  life,  yefc  I 
tnow  that  I  shall  forever  be  with  thee,  for  no  one  can  pluck 
Bie  out  of  thy  hand. 


into 


»  A  Oeri 
my 


Jther  1 


n  jou 


>riginal  {twenly  words). 

Traoht,  daas  aro  Todastag,  w^brand  sia  weinen,  du  la 
The  English  response  thus  eoraplied  with  the  conditions  (se\ 
When  I  was  burn  I  er!ed,  while  othara  smiled 
Oh,  may  I  dying  smile,  while  o^hors  weep. 
3C  70» 


lyClOOglC 


8o4  LIFE  AND   DEATH. 

Moitart. — You  spoke  of  refreshment,  my  Eiuilie ;  lake  my 
liiat  notes,  sit  down  at  the  piano,  sing  them  with  the  hymn  of 
your  sainted  mother;  let  me  hear  once  more  those  notes  which 
have  so  long  been  my  solaee  and  delight. 

Hai/dn. — God  preserve  the  Emperor! 

£aHer.— The  artery  ceases  to  beat. 

Grotius. — Be  serious. 

Erasmm. — Lord,  make  an  end. 

Cardinal  Beaufort.— WhAt !  is  there  no  bribing  death  ? 

Silaty,  Bishop  of  Poiotiers. — Soul,  then  hast  served  Christ 
these  seventy  years,  and  art  thou  afraid  to  die  ?  G-o  out,  soul, 
go  out. 

Queen  Elizabeth. — All  my  possessions  for  a  moment  of  time ! 

Charles  II. — ^Let  not  poor  Nelly  starve. 

Anne  Bohyn. — It"  is  small,  very  small  indeed  (clasping  her 
neck). 

Sir  Thomas  More.^-I  pray  you  see  me  safe  up;  ftnd  as  for 
my  coming  down,  let  me  shift  for  myself  (ascending  the  scaf- 
fold). 

John  Sampden. — O  Lord,  save  my  country !  0  Lord,  ho 
merciful  to 

Chancellor  Thurlow. — I'm  shot  if  I  don't  believe  I'm  dying. 

Addison. — See  with  what  peace  a  Christian  can  die. 

J''ldi^t$  Cfesar. — Et  tu.  Brute. 

^ero. — Is  this  your  fidelity? 

Herder. — Refresh  me  with  a  great  thought. 

Frederick  Y.,  of  Denmark.— There  is  not  a  drop  of  blood  on 
my  hsncls. 

Miraheau. — Let  rae  die  amid  the  sound  of  delicious  music 
and  the  fragrance  of  flowers. 

Madame  de  StaSl. — I  have  loved  God,  my  father,  and  liberty 

Lord  Nelson. — Kiss  me.  Hardy. 

Lord  Chesterfield. — Give  Dayrollcs  a  chair. 

Hoblies. — I  am  taking  a  fearful  leap  in  the  dark. 

Bj/ron. — -I  must  sleep  now. 

^(V  Walter  ScoU.—I  feel  as  if  I  were  to  he  myself  again 


lyClOOglC 


LIFE  AND   DEATH. 


8So 


Keitts. — T  feel  the  daisies  growing  over  me. 

Robert  Bums. — Don't  let  that  awkward  Squa,d  fire  OTer  mj 
grave 

Ziaiorence. — Don't  givo  up  the  ship. 
Washinglon. — It  is  well. 

FranJclin. — A  dying  man  can  do  nothing  easy. 
Wolfe. — Now,  God  he  praised,  I  wUl  die  in  peace. 

Marion. — Thank  God,  I  can  lay  my  hand  upon  my  heart 
and  say  that  since  I  came  to  man's  estate  I  have  never  inten- 
tionally done  wrong  to  any  one. 

Adams. — Independence  forever! 

Jefferson. — I  resign  my  soul  to  God,  and  my  daughter  to  my 
country. 

J.  Q.  Adams. — This  is  the  last  of  earth.    I  am  content. 
'  Harrkon. — I  wish  yon  to  understand  the  true  principles  of 
the  Government.     I  wish  them  carried  out.     I  ask  nothing 


Taylor. — ^I  have  endeavored  to  do  my  duty. 
Daniel  Webster. — I  stU!  live. 


THE  LAST  PRAYER  OP  MART,  QUEEN  OP  SCOTS. 
Written  in  her  Pynyer-Smk  the  laornmg  he/ore  ha-  Ecei^iUion  : 
0 !  DoralnB  Deus,  (0  my  Lord  and  my  God, 


In  aorruwing,  ncepii 

And  bending  the  ] 

I  odore  end  implore 


EEMARKABLE   TRANCE. 


At  the  siege  of  Kouen,  the  hody  of  Francois  de  Civilla,  a 
French  captain  who  was  su^iposcd  to  have  heen  killed,  was 
thrown  with  others  into  the  ditch,  where  it  remained  from 


lyGoogle 


836  LIFE   AND   DEATH. 

eleven  o'clock  in  the  moi'ning  to  half-past  six  in  tlie  evening 
when  tia  servant,  observing  some  latent  heat,  carried  the  bod;' 
into  the  house.  During  the  ensuing  five  clajB  .and  nights  not 
the  slightest  sign  of  life  was  exhibited,  although  the  body 
gradually  recovered  its  Warmth.  At  the  expiration  of  this 
time  the  town  was  carried  by  assault,  and  the  servants  of  an 
officer  belonging  to  the  besiegers,  having  found  the  supposed 
corpse  of  Civille,  threw  it  out  of  a  window,  with  no  other  cover- 
ing than  his  shirt.  Fortunately  for  the  captain,  he  fell  upon 
a  heap  of  straw,  where  he  remained  senseless  three  days 
longer,  when  he  was  taken  up  by  his  relations  for  sepulture 
and  ultimately  brought  to  life.  What  was  still  more  strange, 
Civille,  like  Macduff,  had  been  "  from  his  motlier's  womb 
untimely  ripped,"  having  been  brought  into  the  world  by  a 
Ctesarian  operation  which  his  mother  did  not  survive.  After 
his  last  escape  he  used  to  add  to  his  signature,  "  three  times 
born,  three  times  buried,  and  three  times  risen  from  the  dead 
by  the  grace  of  God." 


QUESTIONS    I 

Whether, — aa  in  the  case  of  the  Abbo  Prevost  in  the  forest 
of  Chantilly, — if  a  supposed  cadavin;  while  subjected  to  the  in- 
vestigating knife  of  the  anatomist,  should  awake,  from  a  trance 
only  to  be  conscious  of  his  horrible  condition  and  to  expire 
from  the  immediate  effect  of  the  dissection,  it  is  any  thing  more 
than  homicide  per  in/oriuniam,  or  not. 

Whether,  in  the  ease  of  Laaarua,  who  was  restored  to  life  ty 
the  Saviour  after  decomposition  had  commenced,  he  could  .have 
reclaimed  property  already  in  the  possession  and  occupancy  of 
the  heirs  to  whom  he  had  willed  it  before  death. 

PRE8EKVBD  BODIES. 

There  is  an  arched  vault,  or  burying-ground,  under  the 
ehurcli  at  Kilsyth,  in  Scotland,  whioh  was  the  burying-place 
of  the  family  of  Kilsyth  until  the  estate  was  forfeited  and 
tJie  title  became  extinct  in  the  year  1715,  since  which  it  has 


lyClOOglC 


LIFE   AND   DEATH.  837 

never  been  used  for  that  purpose  eseept  onee.  The  last  earl 
fled  with  his  family  to  Flamiera,  and,  according  to  tradition,  was 
smothered  to  death  about  the  year  1717,  along  with  his  lady 
and  an  infant  child,  and  a  number  of  other  unfortunate  Scottish 
exiles,  by  the  falling  in  of  the  roof  of  a  house  in  which  they 
were  assembled.  What  became  of  the  body  of  the  earl  is  not 
known;  hut  the  bodies  of  Lady  Kilayth  and  her  infant  were 
disembowelled  and  embalmed,  and  soon  afterwards  sent  oyer  to 
Scotland.  They  were  landed,  and  lay  at  Leith  for  some  time, 
whence  they  were  afterwards  carried  to  Kilsyth,  and  buried 
with  great  pomp,  in  the  vault  above  mentioned. 

In  the  spriiig  of  1796,  some  reckless  young  men,  having  paid 
a  visit  to  this  ancient  cemetery,  tore  open  the  cofSn  of  Lady 
Kilsyth  and  her  infant.  With  astonishment  ^d  consternation 
they  saw  the  bodies  of  Lady  Kilsyth  and  her  child  as  perfect  as 
they  had  been  the  hour  they  were  entombed,  For  some  weeks 
this  eiroumatance  was  kept  secret;  but  at  last  it  began  to  be 
whispered  in  several  companies,  and  soon  excited  great  and 
general  curiosity.  "  On  the  12th  of  June,"  wrote  the  minister 
of  the  parish  of  Kilsyth,  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Garnet,  "  when  I  was 
from  home,  great  crowds  assembled,  and  would  not  be  denied 
admission.  At  all  hours  of  the  night,  as  well  as  the  day,  they 
afterwards  persisted  in  gratifying  their  curiosity.  I  saw  the 
body  of  Lady  Kilsyth  soon  after  the  coffin  was  opened.  It  was 
quite  entire.  Every  feature  and  every  limb  was  aa  full,  nay,  the 
very  shroud  WM  as  clear  and  iresh  and  the  colors  of  the  ribands 
as  bright,  as  the  day  they  were  lodged  in  the  tomb.  What  ren- 
dered this  scene  more  striking  and  truly  interesting  was  that  the 
body  of  her  son  and  only  child,  the  natural  heir  of  the  title  and 
estates  of  Kilsyth,  lay  at  her  knee.  His  features  were  as  com- 
posed ss  if  he  bad  bepu  only  asleep.  His  color  was  as  fresh, 
and  bis  flesh  as  plump  and  full,  as  in  the  perfect  glow  of 
health ;  the  smile  of  infency  and  innocence  sat  on  his  lifBS. 
His  shroud  was  not  only  entire,  but  perfectly  clean,  without  a 
particle  of  dust  upon  it.  He  seems  to  have  been  only  a  lew 
months  old.     The  body  of  Lady  Kilsyth  was  equally  well  pre- 


lyClOOglC 


838  LIIE  AND   DEATn. 

eerved  j  aad  at  a  little  distance,  from  the  feeble  light  of  a  taper, 
it  would  not  have  heen  easy  to  distinguish  whether  she  was 
dead  or  alive.  The  features,  nay,  the  very  expression  of  her 
countenance,  were  marked  and  distinct;  and  it  was  only  in  a 
certain  light  that  you  could  distinguish  anything  like  the  ago- 
nizing traits  of  a  violent  death.  Not  a  single  fold  of  !iev  shroud 
was  decayed,  nor  a  single  member  impaired. .  Neither  of  the 
bodies  appear  to  have  undergoue  the  slightest  decomposition  or 
disorganization.  Several  medical  gentlemen  made  incisions  into 
the  arm  of  the  infant,  and  found  the  substance  of  the  body 
quite  firm,  and  in  its  original  state." 

The  writer  states,  among  other  interesting  points  that  at- 
tracted his  attention,  that  the  bodies  appeared  to  have  been 
saturated  in  some  aromatic  liquid,  of  the  color  of  dark  brandy, 
with  which  the  coffin  had  been  filled,  but  which  had  nearly  all 


Otter  instances  of  the  artificial  preservation  of  bodies  might 
he  mentioned,  still  more  remarkable,  though  perhaps  less  in- 
terestiEg,  than  the  preceding.  The  tomb  of  Edward  the  First, 
who  died  on  the  7th  of  July,  1307,  was  opened  on  the  2d  of 
January,  1770,  and  aft^r  the  lapse  of  four  hundred  and  sixty- 
three  years  the  body  was  found  undecayed  :  the  flesh  on  the  face 
was  a  little  wasted,  hut  not  decomposed.  The  body  of  Canute 
the  Dane,  who  obtained  possession  of  England  in  the  year 
1017,  was  found  quite  fresh  in  the  year  1766,  by  the  workmen 
repairing  Winohester  Cathedral.  In  the  year  1522,  the  body 
of  William  the  Conqueror  was  found  as  entire  as  when  first 
buried,  in  the  Abbey  Church  of  St,  Stephen  at  Caen;  and  the 
body  of  Matilda  his  queen  was  found  entire  in  1502,  in  the 
Abbey  Church  of  the  Holy  Trinity  in  the  same  city. 

No  device  of  art,  however,  for  the  preservation  of  the  re- 
mains of  the  dead,  appears  equal  to  the  simple  process  of 
plunging  them  into  peat-moss. 

In  a  manuscript  by  one  Abraham  Grey,  who  lived  about  the 
middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  now  in  the  po^ession  of  his 
e  Mr.  Goodbehcre  Grey,  ot  Old  Mills,  near  Aber- 


lyClOOglC 


dccn,  it  is  stated  that,  in  1569,  three  Roman  soldiers,  in  the 
dress  of  their  country,  fully  equipped  with-warlike  instruments, 
were  dug  out  of  a  moss  of  great  extent,  called  Kazey  Moss. 
When  found,  after  the  lapse  of  prohahly  about  fifteen  hundred 
jeaj-s,  they  were  still  fresh  and  plump  ! 

Modem  chemistry  teaches  us  tha,t  in  these  cases  there  is  a 
conversion  of  the  tissues  of  the  hodj  inio  adipoccre,  a  suh- 
stance  closely  resembling  spermaceti,  and  composed,  according 
to  Chevreiri,  of  margario  and  oleic  acids,  with  a  slight  addition 
of  the  alkalies.  It  is  generally  formed  from  bodies  buried  in 
moist  earth,  and  especially  when  they  have  accumulated  in 
great  numbers.  On  the  removal  of  the  Gimetitre  des  Innocena 
in  Paris,  in  1787,  where  thousands  of  bodies  tad  been  buried 
annually  for  several  centuries,  it  was  found  that  those  bodies 
which  had  been  placed  in  great  numbers  in  the  trenches 
wore,  without  having  lost  their  shapes,  converted  into  this 
substance, 

POtLT  OF  EMBALMING  COKPSES. 
Pull  many  a  joound  spring  haa  passed  away, 
And  many  a  flower  has  blossomed  to  decay. 


Professor  Johnston,  in  alluding  to  the  custom  of  converting 
the  human  body  into  a  frighiful-looking  mummy,  or  of  at- 
tempting by  various  artificial  processes  to  arrest  ita  natural 
course  of  decomposition  into  kindred  elements,  remarks,  as 
beautifully  as  truly ; —   . 

Embalm  the  loved  bodies,  and  swathe  them,  as  the  old 
Egyptians  did,  in  resinous  cerements,  and  you  but  preserve 
them  a  little  longer,  that  some  wretched,  plundering  Arab  may 
desecrate  and  scatter  to  the  winds  the '  residual  dust.  Or 
jealously,  in  regal  tombs  and  pyramids,  preserve  the  forms  of 
venerated  emperors  or  beauteous  queens,  still,  some  future  con- 
C(ueror,or  more  humble  Belzoni,  will  rifle  the  most  secure  rest- 
ing-place. Or  bury  them  in  most  sacred  places,  beneath  high 
altars,  a  new- reign  shall  dig  them  up  and  mingle  them  again 


lyGoogle 


^840  LIFE   AND   DEATH. 

with  tlie  common  earth.  Or,  more  earefu!  still,  conceal  your 
last  resting-place  where  local  history  keeps  no  record  and  even 
tradition  cannot  betray  you:,  then  accident  shall  stumble  at 
length  upon  your  unknown  tomb  and  Uberate  youi  still  re- 
maining ai^ea.  ' 

How  touching  to  behold  the  vain  result  of  even  the  most 
successful  attempts'  at  preserving  apart,  and  in  their  relative 
places,  the  solid  materials  of  the  individual  form!  The  tomb, 
after  a  lapse  of  time,  is  found  and  opened.  The  ghastly  tenant 
reclines,  it  may  be,  in  full  form  and  stature.  The  very  features 
are  preserved, — impn^sed,  and  impressing  the  spectator,  with 
the  calm  dignity  of  their  long  repose.  But  some  curious  hand 
touches  the  seemingly  solid  form,  or  a  breath  of  air  disturbs 
the  sleeping  air  around  the  full-proportioned  body, — when,  lo  ! 
it  crumbles  instantly  away  into  an  almost  insensible  quantity 


Who  has  not  read  with  mingled  wonder  and  awe  of  the  open- 
ing, in  our  own  day,  of  the  almost  magical  sepulchre  of  an 
ancient  Etruscan  king?  The  antiquarian  dileliaiiii,  in  their 
nnder-ground  researches,  unexpectedly  stumbled  upon  the 
ncknown  vault.  Undisturbed  through  Roman  and  barbaric 
times,  accident  revealed  it  to  modern  eyes.  A  small  aperture, 
made  by  chance  in  the  outer  wall,  showed  to  tho  astonished 
gazers  a  croitned  king  within,  sitting  on  his  chair  of  state, 
with  robes  and  sceptre  all  entire,  and  golden  ornaments  of  an- 
cient  device  bestowed  here  and  .  there  around  his  person. 
Eager  to  secure  the  precious  spoil,  a  way  is  forced  with  ham- 
mer and  mattock  into  the  mysterious  chamber.  But  the  long 
spell  is  now  broken ;  the  magical  image  is  now  gone.  Slowly, 
as  the  vault  first  shook  beneath  the  blows,  the  whole  pageant 
crumbled  away.  A  light,  smoky  dust  filled  the  air ;  and,  where 
the  image  so  lately  sat,  only  the  tinseUed  fragments  of  thin 
gold  remained,  to  show  that  the  vision  and  the  ornaments  had 
been  real,  though  the  entire  substance  of  the  once  noble  form 
had  utterly  vanished. 

For  a  feiT  thousand  years  some  apparently  fortunate  kings 


lyGoogle 


LIFE  AND   DEATH.  841 

and  princes  may  arrest  the  natural  circulation  of  a  haadful  of 
dust.  But  in  what  are  theyhetter  than  Cromwell,  whose  re- 
mains wore  pitilessly  disturbed, — than  Wyckliffe,  whc«e  ashes 
were  sprinkied  on  the  sea, — than  St.  Genevieve,  whose  remains 
were  burned  in  the  Place  de  Grfeve  and  her  ashes  scattered  to 
the  wind, — than  Mausolns,  whose  dust  was  swallowed  by  his 
wife  Artemisia, — than  the  King  of  Edom,  whose  bones  were 
burned  for  lime, — or  than  8t,  Pepin  and  all  the  royal  line  of 
Bourbon,  whose  tombs  were  emptied  by  a  Parisian  mob  ? 
Lamartine  tells  us,  in  his  Hutory  oftki  Girondists,  that  a  de- 
cree of  the  Oonyeution  had  commanded  the  destruction  of  the 
tombs  of  the  kings  at  St.  Denis.  The  Commune  changed  this 
decree  into  an  attack  against  the  dead.  *  *  *  *  The  ase 
broke  the  gates  of  bronze  presented  by  Charlemagne  to  the 
Basilica  of  St.  Denis.  *  »  *  They  raised  the  stones,  ran- 
sacked the  vaults,  violated  the  resting-places  of  the  departed, 
sought  out,  beneath  the  swathings  and  shrouds,  embalmed 
corpses,  crumbled  flesh,  calcined  bones,  empty  skulls  of  kings, 
queens,  princes,  ministers,  bishops.  Pepin,  the  founder  of  the 
Carlovingian  dynasty  and'  fether  of  Charlemagne,  was  now  lut 
a  pinch  of  gray  ash,  which  was  in  a  moment,  scattered  hy  the 
wind.  The  mutilated  heads  of  Turenne,  Duguesclin,  Louis 
XII.,  Francis  I.,  were  rolled  on  the  pavement.  *  *  «  * 
Beneath  the  choir  were  buried  the  princes  and  princesses  of 
the  first  race,  and  some  of  the  third,— Hugh  Capet,  Phihp 
the  Bold,  Philip  the  Handsome.  They  rent  away  their  rags 
of  silk  and  threw  them  on  a  bed  of  qtiieklime.  *  *  *  * 
They  threw  the  carcass  of  Henry  IV.  into  the  common  fos^e. 
His  son  and  graadson,  Louis  XIII.  and  XIV.,  followed.  Louia 
XIII.  was  but  a  mummy ;  Louis  XIV.  a  black,  indistinguishable 
mass  of  aromatics.  Louis  XV,  came  last  out  of  his  tomb.  The 
vault  of  the  Bourbons  rendered  up  its  dead ;  queens,  dauphin- 
MSC3,  princesses,  were  carried  away  in  armfuls  by  the  workmen 
and  oast  into  the  trench.  A  brief  interval  of  proud  separa- 
tion, and  they  were  mingled  with  the  oomnjon  d'ist !  Their 
ashes   dissipated,   nothing  but  their  empty  tomb«  remain, — ■ 


lyClOOglC 


842  LIPE  AND   DEATH. 

tlio  houses  of  tlie  dead,  like  the  houses  of  the  living,  long  sur- 
yiving,  as  melaDcholy  mementos  of  the  tenants  for  whom  thej 

M.  de  Saulcy,  in  his  Journey  Round  the  Dead  Sea,  remarks 
of  the  TOok-tomhs  of  the  valley  of  Hinnom,  "  The  immense 
necropolis,  traces  of  which  are  fo  be  met  with  at  every  step  in 
the  viilley,  dates  from  the  period  when  the  Jebusites  were  mas- 
ters of  the  country.  After  them  the  Israelites  deposited  the 
remains  of  their  fathers  in  the  same  grottoes;  and  the  same 
fomhs,  after  having  beoome  at  a  still  later  period  those  of  the 
Christians  wh6  had  obtained  possession  of  the  Holy  City,  have, 
since  the  destruction  of  the  Latin  kingdoms  of  Jerusalem, 
ceased  to  change  both  masters  and  occupants.  Even  the  scat- 
tered bones  are  no  more  found  in  them ;  and  from  the  city 
of  the  dead  the  dead  alone  have  disappeared,  while  the  abodes 
are  still  entire." 

There  is  a  barbaric  philosophy,  therefore,  as  well  as  an  appa-. 
rent  knowledge  of  the  course  of  nature,  in  the  treatment  of  the 
dead  which  prevails  in  Thibet  and.on  the  slopes  of  the  Hima- 
laya, In  the  former  country  the  dead  body  is  cut  in  pieces, 
and  either  thrown  into  the  lakes  to  feed  the  fishes,  or  exposed 
on  the  hill-tops  to  the  eigles  and  birds  ct  prey  On  the  Hima- 
layan slopes  the  Sikkim  bum  the  body  ind  scntter  the  ashes 
on  the  ground.  The  end  is  the  same  among  these  tribes  of 
men  as  among  us.  They  biiefly  anticipate  the  usual  course 
of  time,- — a  little  sooner  verifying  the  inspired  words,  "  Bust 
thou  art,  and  unto  dust  thou  s!i<ilt  return 

letnfewdois  anlthee 
Tho  all-belioWine  Bun  ahuil  s.a  no  moro 
In  all  bis  Murse;  noryat  in  tiie  cold  ground. 
Where  thy  piila  form  was  laid  nith  miiny  tears, 
Hor  in  the  einbrac©  of  ocean,  Eball  exist 
rchy  image.   Emtb,  tbot  nourished  thee,  shall  clEum 
Thy  growth,  to  be  resolved  to  earth  again, 
And,  lost  each  human  trace,  Eniiendering  up 
Thiue  individual  being,  abnlb  thou  go 
To  mil  forever  nith  the  eleroents, 
To  be  a  bpother  to  the  insensible  rook 
And  to  the  sluggish  clod.— Bevaht. 


lyClOOglC 


LIFE  AND   DEATH.  843 

WHIMSICAL  WILL. 

By  William  Hunuis,  Ohapcl-master  to  Queen  Kliiabethi — 

To  &<id  my  Boule  I  do  bequeathe,  heoause  it  ia  his  owen, 
Mj  body  to  be"  layd  in  grave,  where  to  my  fVienda  best  kuowen ; 
Eseeutors  I  will  none  make,  thereby  great  atryfe  mny  grow, 
Because  the  goods  that  I  Eball  leave  nyll  not  pay  all  I  one. 

THE  TEIPOD. 

According  to  the  Babylonian  Talmud,  BeracutJi,  p.  8,  and  in 
Jalkud  Schimoni  on  Pa.  Ixviii,  20,  "Nine  hundred  and  three 
are  the  kinds  of  death  made  in  this  world."  Pbysiologista  drop 
the  ninehundredjdoelare.thathfe.  stands  on  a  tripod,  and  assert 
that  we  die  hy  the  lungs,  the  heart,  or  the  brain. 

IMPEECATORT   EPITAPH. 

The  Shakspearean  imprecation,  "  Cnret  be  he  that  moves  .my 
bones,"  is  paralleled  in  an  epitaph  in  Bunic  characters  at  Greni- 
adarstad  church,  in  Iceland,  which  according  to  Finn  Magnus- 
sen's  interpretation,  concludes  thus  :—' 

"  If  JOU  wUlinglj  remove  tbia  moiiumcnt,  may  you  sink  into  the  ground. " 
THE    FLEUE-DE-Lie. 

Nothing,  says  an  old  writer,  conld  he  more  simple  than  the 
lily,  which  was  the  distinctive  badge  of  the  Frejich  monarchy; 
nor,  at  the  same  time,  could  anything  be  more  symbolic  of  the 
state  of  the  nobility  and  gentry,  exempted  from  the  necessity 
of  working  for  a  livelihood  or  for  dress,  than  lilies,  of  which  it 
is  said :  "  They  toil  not  neither  do  they  spin,"  neque  laborant 
neque  nent, — which  was  the  motto  of  the  royal  arms  of  France. 

THE   PLAGUES   OF  EGYPT. 
The  waters  change  to  blood;  nest,  frogs  arise; 
Duet  turns  to  lioe;  and  then  oame  swarma  of  flies; 
Lo-I  murrain  strikes  the  beasts,  butGoahen's  free  ! 
Lo!  boils  beset  the  men,  save,  Israel,  thee  J 
Then  fires  the  thundering  hail;  theii  loensts  bile; 
Theo  cornea  three  days  of  one  nnbrokon  night; 
The  first-bom's  midnight  death,  from  cot  to  throne, 
Winds  up  ten  plagues  that  make  Egyptians  moan. 


lyGoogle 


LIFE   AND   DEATH. 


I  STOEY  OF   IX)NG   1 


The  lo  IS  time  igo  jf  winch  I  mean  to  tell  &  \9  Jein  In 
gelow  was  d  wild  night  in  March  dunn^  which  in  a  Gsher 
man  s  hut  ashore  sat  d  young  girl  at  her  spinn  ng  wheel  and 
looked  out  on  the  dark  driMng  clouds  and  listened  trembling 
to  the  windi  ani  thp  seas  The  mormns;  h^ht  diwnel  at  list 
Ono  Loit  that  should  havp  b  en  iiding  on  the  tioublel  wave^i 
w^  mi'teiDo — hei  fefcher  s  b  at  and  bait  a  mile  trom  the  cot- 
t!Lge  h  r  father  s  body  was  wabhed  Bf  ou  the  shiie 

This  happened  fifty  years  ago,  and  fifty  years  is  a  long  time 
in  the  life  of  a  human  being ;  flily  years  is  a  long  time  to  go 
on  in  suoli  a  course  aa  the  woman  did  of  whom  I  am  speaking. 
She  watched  her  faiher's  body,  according  to  the  custom  of  het 
pedplo,  till  he  was  laid  in  the  grave.  Then  she  laid  down  on 
her  bed  and  slept,  and  by  night  got  ap  and  set  a  candle  in  her 
casement  is  i  beacon  to  the  fishermen  and  a  guide.  She  sat 
ly  the  candle  all  night,  and  trimmed  it,  and  spun;  then  when 
tht  day  dawned  she  went -to  bed  and  slept  in  the  Bnushine. 
So  many  hanks  aa  she  spun  before  for  her  daily  bread,  she 
spun  still,  and  one  over,  to  buy  her  nightly  candle;  and  from 
thit  time  to  this  for  fifty  year's,  through  youth,  maturity,  and 
old  at;p  she  turned  night  into  day,  and  in  the  snow-atorms 
of  Winfer,  through  driving  mists,  deceptive  moonlight,  and" 
solemn  darkness,  that  northern  harbor  has  never  once  been 
wilhout  the  light  of  her  candle. 

How  many  livei  she  saved  by  this  candle,  or  how  many 
meiils  she  won  for  the  starving  families  of  the  boatmen,  it  is 
inij-ossible  to  say  how  many  a  d^'k  night  the  fishermen,  de- 
pendmg  on  it  went  feailessly  forth,  cannot  now  be  told.  There 
it  stood,  rei^ukr  as  a  lighthouse,  and  steady  aa  constant  care 
could  make  it  Always  brighter  when  dayl^ht  waned,  they 
hil  only  to  keep  it  cmstantJy  in  view  and  they  were  safe;  there 
wai  but  nc  thing  that  could  intercept  it,  and  that  was  the 
rock      However  fir  they  might  have  stretched  out  to  sea,  they 


lyGoogle 


LIFE   AND   DEATH.  §45 

had  only  to  beai  Jown  atrjight  for  that  l^htcd  wmdow  and 
they  were  sure  of  a  sate  entrant*  into  the  harhoi 

Eifty  years  ot  life  and  hbir — fifty  years  ot  sleej ms;  m  the 
sunshine — fifty  years  of  wj,t(,l  in^  and  selfdeiua]  and  all  to 
feed  the  Same  and  trim  the  wick  ot  that  oae  candle!  But  if 
we  look  upon  the  recorded  lives  of  gieat  men  and  juat  men 
and  wise  men,  few  of  Ihem  can  show  fifty  year^  of  wiitliiei 
certainly  not  of  more  successful  labor  Little  indeed  cf  the 
'■midnight  oil"  consumed  duiing  the  last  half  century  ao  woi 
thily  deserved  trimming  H^ppy  woma  — and  hut  for  the 
dreaded  rock  hci  gieat  clwrity  mi^ht  nevei  Ill^e  teen  oalled 

But  what  do  the  boitmenand  the  bottmena  wncs  think  cf 
this  ?  Do  they  pay  the  woman?  No,  they  ai-e  very  poor;  but 
poor  or  rich  thfey  know  better  than  that.  Do  they  thank  her? 
No.  Perhaps  they  feel  that  tha.nks  of  theirs  would  be  inade- 
quate to  express  their  obligations,  or,  perhaps  long  years  have 
made  the  lighted  casement  so  femiliar  that  it  is  looked  upon 
as  a  matter  of  course.  Sometim^  the  fishermen  lay  fish  oit 
her  threshold,  and  set  a  child  to  watch  it  for  her  till  she 
wakes;  sometimes  their  wives  steal  into  her  cottage,  now  she 
is  getling  old,  and  spin  a  hank  or  two  of  threiid  for  her 
while  she  slumbers;  and  they  teach  their  children  to  pass  her 
hut  quietly,  and  not  to  ring  and  shout  before  her  door,  lest 
they  should  disturb  her.  That  is  all.  Their  thanks  are  not 
looked  for — scarcely  supposed  to  be  due.  Their  gi-afeful 
deeds  are  more  than  she  expects  and  much  as  she  desires. 

How  often  in  the  far  distance  of  my  English  home,  I  have 
awoke  in  a  wild  Winter  night,  and  while  the  wind  and  storm 
were  arising,  have  thought  of  that  northern  bay,  with  the 
waves  dashing  against  the  rock,  and  have  pictured  to  myself 
the  casement,  and  the  candle  nursed  by  that  heading,  aged 
figure!  How  delighted  to  know  that  through  her  untiring 
charity  the  rock  has  long  smce  lost  more  than  than  half  its  terror, 
■7l» 


lyClOOglC 


■8i6  IIPB   AND   DEATH. 

and  to  consider  that,  curse  though  it  may  be  to  all  besides,  it 
has  moat  surely  proved  a  bleasiog  to  her. 

You,  too,  niay  perhaps  tMnk  with  advantage  on  the  charac- 
ter of  this  woman,  aod  coatraat  it  with  the  miasion  of  the  roek. 
There  are  many  degrees  between  them.  Few,  Hke  the  rock, 
stand  up  wholly  to  work  ruin  and  destruction;  few,  like  the 
woman,  "let  their  light  shine"  so  brightly  for  good.  But  to 
one  of  the  many  degrees  between  them  we  must  all  most  cer- 
tainly belong — we  all  lean  towards  the  woman  or-  the  rock. 
On  such  characters  you  do  well  to  speculate  with  me,  for  you 
have  not  been  cheated  into  sympathy  with  ideal  shipwreck  or 
imaginary  kiudness.  There  is  many  a  rock  elsewhere  as  peril- 
ous AS  the  one  I  told  you  of — perhajB  there  are  many  such 
women ;  but  for  this  one,  whose  story  is  before  you,  pray  that 
her  candle  may  burn  a  little  longer,  since  this  record  of  her 
charily  is  true. 

THIS  IS   NOT   OOR   HOME. 

Among  the  beautifiil  thoughts  which  dropped  like  pearls 
from  the  pen  of  that  brilliant  and  talented  journalist,  George  D. 
Prentice,  the  following  sublime  extract  upon  man's  higher  des- 
tiny is  perhaps  the  best  known  and  most  universally  admitted. 
Coming  from  such  a  source  we  can  well  appreciate  it,  for  that 
distinguished  man  had  attained  a  position  among  hia  fellows 
which  would  have  satisfied  almost  any  earthly  ambition  Yet  all 
this  could  not  recompense  him  for  the  toils  and  ilU  of  life,  and 
in  the  eloquent  passage  subjoined  he  portrays,  most  beautifully, 
the  restless  longings  of  the  human  heart  for  somcthmg  higher 
and  nobler  than  earth  can  afford. 

"  It  cannot  be  that  earth  is  man's  only  abiding  place  It  can- 
not be  that  our  life  is  a  bubble  oast  up  by  the  ocean  of  eternity 
to  float  a  moment  apon  its  waves  and  sink  into  nothingness. 
Else,  why  these  high  and  glorious  aspirations  which  leap  Jike 
angels  from  the  t«mple  of  our  hearts,  forever  wandering  un- 
satisfied ?  Why  is  !fc  that  the  rainbow  and  cloud  come  over  us 
with  a  beauty  that  is  not  of  earth;  and  then  pass  off  to  leave  us 


lyGoogle 


LIFE   AND    DEATH.  847 

to  mitse  on  tteir  loveliness  ?  Why  is  it  the  stars  whiuh  liolcl  their 
festival  aiouad  the  njidnight  throne,  are  sot  above  the  grasp  of 
our  limited  feoulties,  forever  mocking  ua  with  their  iinapproach- 
ablo  glory?  And,  finally,  wliy  is  it  that  the  bright  forms  of 
human  heauty  are  presented  to  our  view  and  takoa  from  ue, 
lejving  the  thousand  streams  of  our  affections  to  flow  hack  in 
Alpine  torrents  upon  our  hearts?  We  were  bom  for  a  higher 
destiny  than  earth.  There  is  a  realm  where  the  rainbow  never 
fades,  where  the  stars  will  he  spread  out  before  ua  like  the 
islands  that  slumber  on  the  ocean,  and  where  the  beautiful 
heinga   that  pass   before  us  like   shadows,  will   sky  forever 


:ll  success  in  life. 

One  of  our  best  American  writers,  Geo.  S.  Hillard,  forcibly 
and  truly  says : — 

I  confess  that  increasing  years  biing  with  them  lu  inireasiag 
respect. for  men  who  do  not  succeed  in  lil'e  is  those  words  are 
commonly  used.  Heaven  is  said  to  be  a  ph«?e  tor  those  who 
have  not  succeeded  on  earth ;  and  it  fa  sure  that  celestiil  ^  ice 
does  not  thrive  and  bloom  in  the  hot  bliae  of  noildly  jroa 
perity.  Ill  success  sometimes  ai-isea  tiom  as  per  b  mdanue  ut 
qualities  in  themselves  good — from  a  conaLieii(,e  too  Bensitive, 
a  taste  too  fastidious,  a  selt-forgetfalnens  toi  omantic  and 
modesty  too  retiring.  I  will  not  g  so  tar  as  to  say  with  \  living 
poet,  "that  the  world  knows  nothm^  of  its  t,reat  m  n  but 
there  are  forms  of  greatness,  or  at  least  ex  ellen(,e  which  die 
and  make  no  sign  ;"  there  are  martyrs  that  mi=s  the  piln  but 
not  the  stake,  heroes  without  the  laui el  and  con  jueiors  with 
out  the  triumph. 

FUTORITT. 

"  Life  is  sweet,"  said  Sir  Anthony  Kingston  fo  Bishop 
Hooper  at  the  stake,  "and  death  bitter."  "  True,  friend,"  he 
replied,  "but  consider  that  the  death  to  come  is  more  bitter, 
and  the  life  to  come  is  more  sweet." 


lyClOOglC 


LIFE    AND   DEATn. 


In  his  oliarmmg  Byperion,  Mr.  Longfellow  saya: — 
.  The  little  I  have  seen  of  the  world,  and  kno*  of  the  history 
of  manliind,  teaches  me  to  look  upon  the  errora  of  othera  in 
sorrow,  not  in  anger.  When  I  take  the  histovy  of  one  poor 
heait  that  has  sinaed  and  snffercd,  and  represent  to  myself  the 
struggles  and  temptationa  it  has  passed, — the  brief  pulsations 
of  joy, — the  feverish  inquietude  of  hope  and  fear, — tlie  tears 
of  regret, — the  feebleness  of  purpoae, — the  preasure  of  want,— 
the  desertion  of  friends, — the  aeora  of  a  world  that  has  little 
charity, — the  desolation  of  the  aoul's  sanctuary, — threatening 
voices  within,^health  gone,— happiness  gone, — even  hope,  that 
remains  the  longest,  gone, — I  would  fain  leave  the  erring 
soul  of  my  fellow-man  with  Him  from  whose  hands  it  came, 

Bvcn  as  »  UtUa  girl, 
Weeping  and  laughing  in  lier  oliildiah  sport. 

EVBNING  PKAYEB. 
Tte  day  is  endefl.     Ere  I  ainlt  to  sleep, 

Fatker,  forgive  mj  treepaBsea,  and  lueep 

miB  little  life  of  mine. 
■With  loving  kindness  curtain  thon  my  bed, 

Tiij  pardon  ba  tha  pillow  for  my  head; 

At  peace  »ith  all  the  world,  dear  Lord,  and  thee, 
No  fears  my  aonl'a  unwavering  faith  can  shalte; 

All's  well !  whichever  aide  the  grare  for  me 
The  morning  light  may  braalt. 

BEAUTIFUL   TOOUGllT. 

On  the  shores  of  the  Adriatic  sea  the  wives  of  the  fisher- 
men, whose  husbaads  have  gone  fer  off  upon  the  deep,  are  in 
the  habit,  at  even-tide,  of  going  down  to  the  sea-shore,  and 
singing,  as  female  voices  only  ca,n,  the  fii-st  stanza  of  a  beautiful 
hymn;  after  they  have  sung  it  they  will  listen  tiU  they  hear, 
borne  by  the  wind  across  the  desert  sea,  the  second  atanza  sung 


lyGoogle 


INDEX. 


LPHiBETicAi.  Whims,  Page  25. 

Alphabetical  advertisement,  29. 

Oliver's  impromptu  on  Arnold, 

Enigmaa,  30. 

P(^44. 

Eve's  Legend,  28. 

Rachel,  46. 

Jacobite  toast,  30. 

Reynolds,  42. 

Letter  H,  31. 

Soott,  Walter,  42. 

Southey, «. 

mata,  2b. 

Valentine,  a,  49. 

Marriage  of  a  ladj  to  Mr.  Gae, 

Wordsworth,  43. 

32. 

ALLITBBiTION,  34. 

On  sending  a  pair  of  gloves,  33. 

Alphabetical,  34. 

Tlie  three  initials,  30. 

Address  lo  the  Aurora,  36. 

Uniyocalio  yeraas,  32. 

Belgrade,  siege  of,  34. 

Alliterative  on  Miss  Staphena, 

Prinee  Charles   protected  by 

45.                                ■'  ■ 

Flora  Maodonalii,  35. 

Brevity  of  human  life,  48. 

Title-page    for  Book  of   Ek- 

Burke,  42. 

tracts,  37. 

Chronogrammatio   paequinade. 

Bevy  of  ballea,  3fl. 

46. 

Crabba,  42. 

Couplet  on  Cardinal  Wolsoy,  35. 

Death  of  Iiord  Hatherton,  40. 

Felicitoua  flight  of  fancy,  38. 

Dryden,  12. 

Hood's  Ode  to  Perry,  38. 

Emblematic  fish,  46. 

Motives  to  gratitude,  SO 

Hampo,  47. 

Puloi's  double  alliterations,  38. 

Horbart,  Gaorge,  41. 

Stanza  from  Drary'B  Dirge,  36. 

Huber,  42. 

AnieBiMS,  49. 

Irving,  43. 

Limgfellow,  43. 

Telegram  anagrammatizcd,  56. 

Maoaulay,  44. 

BlEtS,  THE,  103, 

Macready,  43. 

Accuracy  of  the  Bible,  103. 

Masonic  memanto,  47. 

Bibliomancy,  126. 

Monastic  varse,  45. 

Bnoka  belonging  to,  lost  or  un- 

Napoleon family,  4e. 

known,  114. 

lyGoogle 


Bible,  the^ 

Ohcbchtabd  LrtEftiTDBE,— 

Diaaeetion    of    Old    and    New 

Oeolo,  Page  601. 

Testamenta,  Page  112. 

■   Earth  to 

arth,  612. 

DietiEctions  in  the  gospels,  113. 

Epitaph, 

historical,  578. 

Bngliah  Bible  traDslationa,  108. 

on  a  chemist,  600, 

Hexameters  in  the  Bible   116 

■■—  ■" — n's,  614. 

Misquotations  from  8     ptu 

07. 

d  ntal,  600. 

OldaudNewTestamt 

riginal,  602. 

125. 

flOl. 

Parallelism    of    the    H        w 

poetry,  US. 

al,  578. 

ParaOel       passages             w 

d  puzzling,  596. 

ShakapeareandthoB 

apt,    appropriate 

Scriptnral  bull,  lUi. 

Scriptural  sum,  126. 

Salah,  114. 

602. 

Similarity  of  sound, 

08. 

Tea'timony  of  learned  m            6 
True  gentlemau,  the, 

g  and  admonitory. 

Wit  and   humor  in     h     B 

12d. 

men,  664. 

Bl.CNl.BBS,  259. 

nd  children,  575. 

Blunders  Of  tranalato 

te  ,680. 

Mistakes  of  misapp    h 

ludicrous,  583. 

Serial  inconsistency,  2 

out  a  parallel,  600. 

Slips  of  the  preaa,  25 

OR  Chain  Vbbse, 

Slips  of  the  telegraph  2 

BoD™Hi>rE3,88, 

Lasphriae 

B  novelties,  85. 

Bogarl^s  Impromptu,  89. 

Ringing  Song,  87. 

Eevarsed  rhyming  ends,  80. 

To  Death 

Cbnto,  the,  73, 

Truth,  86 

Biblical  cento,  T6. 

Trying  akyijig,  87. 

Cento  from  Pope,  16. 

p8BBSEro8onirD,654. 

Life,  75. 

Articulate  imitation  of  inarticu- 

Mosaic poetry,  13. 

late  sou 

nds,  554. 

Betum  of  Israel,  the,  77. 

Chhobogkams,  67. 

556. 

Churchyard  Literature,  664. 

time  an 

d  motion,  664. 

Advertising  notices,  683. 

Cnniocs  Books,  720. 

Antithesis  extraordinary,  606. 

Eook-ama 

teurs,  722. 

Bathoa,  600. 

MMt  ouri 

nsbookin  the  world. 

Brevity,  667. 

722. 

lyGoogle 


CcHious  Books, — 

Odd  titles  of  old  books.Piige  720. 

Silver  book,  122. 
CuarOMS,  BlNOULiR,  ill.    , 

AbysBinian  beefeteaks,  4J8. 

Beautiful  supers titioli,  477. 

Foundations  of  Druidical  tem- 
ples, 478. 

Hair  in  seals,  4SI. 

High  life  in  the  15tli  centDr7, 
480. 

Iii on-catching  in  South  A&ica, 


advertiseraont. 


Ostjak  regard  for  boars,  47S. 
Scoi'ULUg  the  church,  481. 
Strange  fondness  for  beaut7,477. 
EccLBSiiBTiaa,  143. 
Esoeeeive  civility,  143. 
Basoom,  eloqaenoe  of,  14B. 
Clerical  blunders,  148. 
Lord  Bishop,  the,  146. 
Origin  of  texts,  147. 
Preachers  of  Oromwell's  time, 

147. 
Protestant     eseommuni  cation, 

149. 
Proving  aJi  alibi,  148. 
Sermon  on  malt.  Mi. 
Short  sermons,  143. 
'Whitefield  and  the  sailors,  149. 


AcoHfltioa,  extraordinary   fitots 

in,  289. 
Bonaparte  and  echo,  286. 

Echo -answering,  287. 
and  the  lover,  284. 


Pasquinade,  283. 
Queen  Eliaabeth,  282. 
Bong  by  Addison,  283. 
Synod  of  Dort,  287. 

EMBLEWiTIC  POBTRT,  92. 

Altar  inseription,  96. 

Crosa,  the,  B4. 

Crucifixion,  curious   piece   of 

antiquity  ou,  96. 
Cypher,  ingenious,  98. 

ssay  to  Miss  Catharine  Jaj,  97. 
Hindu  triplet,  93. 
Oxford  joke,  96. 
Hhonihoi4al  dirgo,  94 
Typographical,  98. 
Wino-glass,  the,  93. 
EnoLisn   Words   asd    Forms   ov 
Expression,  182. 
Compound  epithets,  211. 
Dictionary  English,  182. 
Disraelian  English,  184. 


Forlorn  hope,  193. 
Influence  of  names,  209, 


Our  vernacular   in   Chauoer'i 

time,  211. 
Path-ology,  186. 
Pontiff,  190. 

Pronunciation  of  ough,  186. 
Quia,  191. 
Rough,  190. 

Sources  of  the  language,  183. 
Tennyson's  English,  194. 


lyGoogle 


Blttd  s  of  the  Bheara,  523. 


law,  after  going  to,  Page  626. 
Lawyer,  on  an  ill-read,  520. 
Lover  to  Iiis  miatrese,  with  a. 

mirror,  519. 
Marriage  &  )a  mode,  52S. 
Marriage  of  Webb  &  Gould,  528. 
Martial's,  on  Epigrams,  615, 
Maecaline,  525. 
Medical  advice,  522. 
Mendax,  520. 
Midas  acd  modem  statesmen. 


bell's  album  Terse,  621. 
,  the,  526. 

iary     Goldje's     brains, 

lent,  overdrawn,  618. 
.0  could  net  ory,  624. 
it,  definition  of,  622. 
Detefmi nation,  a  funay,  526. 
ion  utilized,  527. 

certain,  621.' 


520. 


Fell, 
Fidd  81 

3l  ind  poet,  516. 
Fool    abundance  of,  627. 
,  Frie:  S,  to  I>r.  Robert, ; 
Frie  d,  to  a  oaprioiouB,  519. 
Frie  i  in  distress,  622. 
Gemfan  tourist,  saggested  by  a, 

Givi:  i;  and  tatii 
ough,  623. 
Baeon,  522. 


619. 


eonal,  524. 

ble,  524. 

who  married  a  footman. 


One  ignorant  and  arrogant,  on, 
616. 

Pale  lady  with  red-nosed  hus- 
band, 517. 

Parson  and  butcher,  525. 

Portmanteau,  clergyman's,  loss 
of,  513. 

Q.icen   Eosa   on    Drake's   ship. 

Queen,  the  frugal,  519. 
Quid  pro  quo,  527. 
Reception,  a  warm,  522, 
Itefleotion,  a,  623. 
Bogers  on  Ward's  apeeehes,  526. 
Same  jawbone,  526. 
^  Selvaggi's    distich    to    Milton, 
517. 
Amplification,    by     DrydoD, 
511. 
Simplicity,  prudent,  622. 


Snow,  i^hat  me 

breast,  517. 
Songsters,  bad, 


lyGoogle 


BpiGJi.HS,— 

FABKICiTiOHSr-- 

Widows,  Page  625. 

Woman,— contra,  S2T. 

persoQ,  Page  269. 

pro,  62?. 

FranMin'Bpaiahle,2r5. 

■Womau'3  will,  520. 

Hoax  on  Walter  Scott,  269. 

World,  the,  S37. 

Ireland's  forgBrieB,276. 

Literary  sell,  271. 

EQUITU4TJB,  84. 

Moon  hoax,  270.      ■ 

Age  of  FroQoh  aetresaea,  71. 

Mrs,  Hemana'B  forgeries,  271. 

Double-faced  creed,  68. 

Sheridan's  Great,  213. 

Fatd  double  meanii^,  6S. 

Handwriting  on  tlio  wall,  71. 

FAHiLiiR   Quotations    feom    Un- 

Houeea  of  Stuart  and  HanoTer, 

FAJIIlllB  SOUHCES,  65S. 

Fakcies  op  Fact,  tkk,  406. 

Ingenious  aubtarfu'ge,  66. 

Aerolites,  443. 

Love-letter,  65. 

Loyalty  or  Jacobinism,  69. 

Alligators    swallowing    atones, 
418. 

Neat  evaaion,  70. 

ime    ea      disooverera,  fate  of, 

New  Regime,  68. 

Patriotic  toaat,  70. 

Am    int    >f  gold  in  the  world. 

Bevolutioaary  verses,  67. 

Eichelieu'8  letter  to  the  Fi'eueh 
ambassador,  64. 

Ant  path  ea,  471. 

A  my    t  women,  448. 

A    1  to      ms   of    last    century. 

Trijile  platform,  61. 

FACET!*,  482. 

409 

Association  of  ideas,  491. 

Baok  act  on,  408, 

Brevity,  484. 

False  friend,  a,  488. 

B  lis  for  strange  aervicea,  407. 

Gasconade  and  hoaxing,  489 

Black  hole  at  Calcutta,  427. 

Jack  Eobinson,  402. 

Broken  heart,  a,  467. 

Jesta  of  Hierocles,  482. 

fhek   n  the  egg,  416. 

Mathews  and  the  silver  apoon 

Cloth  manufacture,  celerity  of. 

01dNiok,488. 

Oo  ncidences,  aingular,  412. 

P.  and  Q.,  491. 

O  lors  diversity  of,  442. 

Relics,  490. 

r  mpoB  t  on  in  dreams,  465. 

Royal  quandary,  490. 

frosa  true  form  of  the,  409. 

Russian  jester'  and  his  jokes 

I_rovnof  England,  446. 

492. 

Cr  devaluews.induatrial value. 

Same  joke  diversified,  486. 

42" 

Sylhtgism,  488. 

De  onth  re  suporatition,  475.    ' 

Titles  for  library-door,  483. 

D  araet  r      to      circumference. 

rat     of  4S1. 

FABEICiTIONS,  269. 

D  fference      between      English 

Ballad  literature,  274. 

poeta  426. 

lyGoogle 


PiNClES  OF  PiCT  THE, — 

Diplomatic  costume,  Page  44S. 
Equestrian     expeditions,     re- 
markable, 419. 
Facial  exprassiou,  468. 
Fear,  effects  of,  466. 
Feline  olooka,  474. 
Heaven,  dimeQBiona  of,  435, 
Horse,  wonderful,  420. 
ludian  and  hia  tamea  enake, 

lunate  appetite,  417. 


FiMOlES  OF  FiOT,  THB,— 

Sileut  compliment.  Page  434. 
Skull  that  had  a  tongue,  475. 
Sleep,  facta  about,  456, 
Solomon's  temple,  cost  of,  435. 


Wallting  bliadfolded,  473. 


Lock,  wonderful,  421, 

Wounds  of  Julius  Cffisar,  406. 

longeTJty.ixiBtancea  of  remark- 
able, 449. 

Flashes  of  REPiRTUE,  495. 

Marriage  Tow,  456. 

HiBERNIiJii,  262. 

Mathematical  prodigies,  432. 

HlSTORJOlL  MBMORiBDA,  782. 

Means  of  reoi^nition,  464. 

American  monarohy,  786. 

Melrose  by  sunlight,  406. 

Amy  Bobsart,  808. 

Memory  extraordinary,  433. 

Annie  Laurie,  804. 

Minute  mechanism,  430. 

Biter  bit,  818.     . 

Need  of  Froyidenoe,  434. 

Blucher,  IB4. 

Noah's  ark  and  the  Great  Eas- 

tern, 442. 

Diaoovery  of  America,  803. 

Number  nine,  441. 

Empire  (the)  is  peace,  794. 

First  blood  of  the  Bevolution 

three,  440, 

782. 

Opium  and  East  Indian  hemp. 

Flight  of  Eugenie,  789. 

French  tricolor,  788. 

Painters,  blunders  of,  429. 

Great  events  from  little  causes 

Perils  of  precocity,  427. 

Presidents,  faolB  about  the,  44S. 

History  and  fiction,  797. 

Pithy  prayer,  408. 

Jefferson  on  Marie  Antoinette 

Quantity  and  value,  422, 

Beoiprocai  conversion,  407. 

Joan  of  Are,  807. 

Romans,  immenae  wealth  of  tjie. 

Last  night   of  the    Girondists 

424. 

Eomantia  highwayman,  476. 

Mary  "  Magdalene,     the     tra- 

Salt aa  a  luxury,  428. 

ditional,  799. 

Mother  Goose,  797. 

Sensation  and  intelligence  after 

Mother  of  Oharlea,  V.,  795. 

decapitation,  466. 

Napoleon  III.,  793. 

Slieep,  habits  .of,  418. 

.  Political  gamut,  788. 

lyGoogle 


Quaker  maligQantB,  Page  786. 
Queen  Elizabeth's  ring,  822. 
Rohin  Adair,  806. 
Signing   Declftration.    of   Inde- 

pendenoe,  802. 
Star-spangled  banner,  787. 
Tea-party  and  tea-burning,  783 
TimeofLeGrandMonarque,81f 
United  States  Navy,  784. 
■William  Tell,  810. 

EB,  679. 


•Art  at 


3,  689. 


Ballads  anl  legends,  600. 

Buttles,  097. 

Bishop  Hatto,  698. 

Burial  alive,  692. 

Death  propheciea,  686. 

Histqry  repeating  itself,  681. 

Judgment  of  Solomon,  685. 

Legend  of  Beth  Gelert,  686. 

Precedency,  685. 

Befusal   to  separate  from  kiu- 

drod,  679. 
Sing  Btories,  S95, 
Two  states  men,  the,  683. 
Humors  of  Veesifio4T70m,  330. 
Bryant  Ba  a  humorist,  235. 
Curse  of  O'Kelly,  250. 
Elegy  On  Buekland,  233. 
Human  ear,  the,  238. 
Lovers,  the,  230. 
Ologies,  the,  244. 
Receipt  of  a  rare  pipe,  336. 

Rominiseonoe  of  Troy,  234. 


Stammering  wife,  231. 
Thoughla    while    rooking   tlio 

cradle,  232. 
Variation  humbag,  246. 


Death-warrant  of  Jesus  (Ih 

Page  134. 
Be  nomine  Jesu,  130. 
Description    of    the    Savit 

person,  133. 
Double  hexameter,  136. 
Flower  of  Jesse,  the,  131. 
Persian  apologue,  132. 
lupBOKPina,  628. 

INSOBIPTJONS,  615. 

Beer-jug,  inscription  on,  62 
Bells,  inscription  a  on,  623. 
Booke.flyleafinscriptionsii 
English  inns  in  olden  time, 
.Solian  harp,  inscription  on, 
Franche'a  discovery,  636. 
OSolden  mottoes,  636. 
House  inscriptions,  634. 
Memorials,  635. 
Motto  on  a  oloci,  631. 
Posies  from  wedding-rings, 
Spring,  i 


n-dial  in 


riptio. 


Tavern -sign  a,  615. 

"Watch-paper  inaeription,  631. 

Wedding    ring.    Lady    Grey's, 
639. 

Window-pane  inscriptions,  622. 
Ihtbrktfpteh  Sbntenobs,  277. 
LiPK  ABi!  Death,  826. 

After,  850. 

Beautiful  thought,  848. 

Bodies,  preaerved,  S3B. 

bed  by  modern 


s,  832. 


Char 


J,  830. 


Common  heritage,  the,  851. 
Corpses,  folly  of  embalming,  839. 
Death's  final  conquest,  851. 
Definitions,  rhy mingy  830. 
Destiny,  849. 

Dying  words  of  distingiiishod 
persons,  833. 


lyGoogle 


Life  isD  Death,— 
Earth,  Page  830. 
Evening  prayar,  848. 
Fleur-de-li3,'tlie,  843, 
Futurity,  847. 
Heart,  the,  848. 
Ill  euneees  in  life,  847. 
Impreoatoi-y  epitaph,  843. 
Lawyers,  nice  questions  for,  831. 
Li  fe,  beau  ti  f ul  i  llus  trations  of  826 
Life's  parting,  84B. 
luving  life  over  again,  829. 
Mary,    Queen     of   8coi«,  laat 

prayer  of,  835. 
Moral. code.  Dr.  Franklin's,  828. 
Plagues  of  Egypt,  843. 
Questions  for  diseussion,  836. 
Hemarkable  trance,  835. 
Round  of  life,  the,  827. 
Rules  of  living,  828. 
Story  of  long  ago,  8i4. 
Sympathy,  850. 
This  is  not  our  home,  848. 
Time,  employment  of,  829. 
Tripod,  the,  843. 
Whimaiea!  will,  843. 

Additional     Teraea     to     Swaet 

Anschroniamfi   of   Shakspeare, 

742. 
Books  and  studies,  765. 
Comfort  for  book  lovers,  753. 
Conflicting  testimoay  of  aya- 

witn  esses,  75  0. 
Gray's  elegy,  729. 
Hamlet's  age,  745. 
Hamlet's  insanity,  749. 
Heraldry,  Indian,  741. 
Letters  and  their  endings,  764. 
Letters  of  Junius,  723. 
Old  paper,  an,  753. 
Parting    interview   of  .  Hector 

and  Andromache,  734, 
Pope's  versification,  737. 


Shakspaoro  and  typography,  744 
Shakspo are's  heroines,  744. 
Shakspeare's  sonnets,  746. 
Stereotyped  falsehoods  of  his- 
tory, 747. 
Wit  and  humor,  751. 

LlTEEAn,  756. 

Attainments  nf  linguists,  758. 
Culture  and  sn orifice,  761, 
Dryden  and  his  publisher,  762. 
Literary  oddities,  7S8. 
Literary  screw,  182. 
Lonn's  Pkater,  thr,  133. 
Aorostieal  paraphrase,  139. 
Echoed,  141, 
Gothic  version,  138. 
Illuatrated,  138. 


;,  142. 


Metrical  v! 


,137. 


Thy  and  ua,  I3B. 
tficiKOHio  VEiiaE,  7: 
Am  Ehein,  S; 


Catai 


Content!  abeamus,  81, 
Death  of  the  sea  serpent,  84. 
Fly-leaf  aeribbling,  82. 
Maginn'a  alternations,  BD. 
Parting  address  to  a  friend,  83. 
Polyglot  inscription,  S3, 
Suitor  with  nine  tongues,  80. 
reatise  of  wine,  78. 
Memoria  TEonmcA,  327. 
Books  of  the  old  Testament,  327. 

ITew  Teatsment,  S27.    ' 
Days  in  each  month,  330. 
Decalogue,  the,  329.  . 
English  sovereigns,  328. 
Metrical  Grammar,  330.       [328. 
Presidents  of  the  United  States, 
Shakspeare's  plays,  328 


lyGoogle 


ivoluntar 
iriptarc 


■siflcatioi 


nthe 


Johnson  on  involiinlary  raetraj 
Kerableand  Siddons,  329. 
Lincoln's  second  inaugural,  229. 
Nelly's  funeral,  236. 
Niagara,  22?. 
Night,  22T. 

Unintentional  rliymea  of  pro- 
aera,  228. 

MlSODOTATIOSS,  268. 
MOHOSTLLADLEH,  98. 

Power  of  short  woi'da,  102. 
MoaLEM  WiSDoa,  608. 
Alexa,ndrian  Library,  the,  611). 
Mohammedan  logic,  SOS. 
Shrewd  deoision  of  Ali,  508. 
Turkish  expedienta,  510. 
Wisdom  of  Ali,  508. 


God  in  Shakapeare,  1 


Aerial  navigation,  382. 
Auseathesia,  333. 
Attraction  of  gParitation, 
Auaeultation    and    Percui 
392. 

Circulation  of  the  blood ,-3 
Discovery  of  America,  pr 

ttons  of,  393. 
Early  inveiition  of  rifiing. 


I.  861 

Nothing  New  Undeh  the  Bus.— 
Magnetictelegraph, foreshadow - 

inga  of.  Page  S76. 
Steam-power,  firat  diaooTeriea 

of,  ST8. 
Btereoaeope,  the,  393. 
Table-moving    and   alphabet- 
rapping,  391. 
Dbioin  of  Things  Pamiliae,  3S1. 
All  Pools'  day,  332. 
American  flag,  366. 
Bottled  ale,  343. 
Blue  stocking,  866.   . 
Brother  Jonathan,  366. 
Bumper,  340. 
Cards,  336. 
Cook  fighting,  38*. 
Dollar-mark,  357. 
Drinking  heal  (ha,  34S. 
Dun,  340. 

Earliest  newspapers,  312. 
Feather  in  one's  cap,  346. 
Pirsi  doctors,  368. 
epigram,  371. 
forged  bank-note,  367. 
piano-forte,  367. 
prayer  in  Congress,  370. 
printing  by  ateam,  373. 
■  reporters,  371. 
telegraphic  message,  373. 
thanksgiving     proclamation, 
368. 
Flag  of  England,  3flS. 
Foolscap  paper,  366. 
Friction  matches,  366. 
Humbug,  340. 
India-rubber,  3fi4. 
Kiel<ing  the  bnoket,  340. 
La  Marseillaise,  350. 
Mind  your  P's  and  Q'a,  331. 
Hewa,  372. 

Nine  tailors  make  a  man,  346. 
Old  Hundred,  349. 
Order  of  the  garter,  346. 
Over  the.]eft,  339. 


lyClOOglC 


OEiara  OP  Tsmas  PiMiuiR,— 

PahonohAsiA,— 

Pungent  chapter.  Page  157. 

Postpaid  envelopee,  349. 

Huaaian  double  entendre,  171. 

Potato,  the,  343. 

Sheridan's  compliment,  163. 

Rojal  aayiiig,  340. 

Short  road  to  wealth,  159. 

Signature  of  the  oroBS,  348. 

Sonnet,  168. 

Skeiiaddle,  36S.     . 

Sticky,  163. 

Stockings,  344. 

Swift's  Latin  puna,  IBB. 

Sub  roea,  338. 

Sydney  Smith's  pun,  IBO. 

Tarring  and  featiierii^,  341. 

Tom  Moore,  161. 

Turkish  orfcsoent,  348. 

To  my  nose,  163. 

Turncoat,  364. 

Top  and  bottom,  161. 

Uncle  Sam,  3iT. 

TInoon scions  pun's,  171. 

VariouB   indentions    and    cus- 

Vegetable  girl,  the,  164. 

Whiskers  »«.  raaor,  1B3. 

Viz.,  347. 

Winter,  160. 

Word  Book,  346. 

Women,  162. 

Yankee  Doodle,  353. 

JcuK  de  Mots,  ITS. 

0.  8.  AND  N.  9.,  325. 

Ariagrammatio,  175, 
.     Iterative)  175. 

Gregorian  oaleniiar,  325. 

Bees  of  the  Bible,  179. 

Beaulta  of  ohange  in  style,  326. 

Cataleotic  monody,  177. 

Crooked  Coincidences,  ISI. 

Pwr  letfer,  176. 

PiBiLLEL  Passages,  840. 

Franklin's  Re's,  1J9. 

NoTembor,  178. 

On  the  death  of  Kildare,  17 

Plagiarism  of  Charles  Eeade,  67J- 

Sohott  and  Willing,  177. 

PATiOSOMASIA,  165. 

Swarm  of  Beca,  179. 

Ben,  the  sailor,  163. 

Turn  to  the  left,  177. 

Book -larceny,  164. 

Write  written  right,  177. 

Classical  pans  and  motlfles,  172. 

Spiritual,  175. 

Coiirt-fooVs  pun  on  Laud,  131. 

Persian  Poetky  esoskpta  from 

Dr.  Johnson's  pun,  ISO. 

Epitaph  on.  an  old  horse,  IBS. 

Beauty's  prerogative,  511. 

Erskine's  toast,  160. 

Broken  hearts,  511. 

nolraes  on  Achillea,  162. 

Caliph  and  Satan,  613. 

Grand  scheme  of  emigration,  166 

Double  plot,  613. 

Marionettes,  168. 

Earth  an  illusion,  511. 

Miaa-nomers,  the,  160. 

Folly  for  one's  self,  513. 

MottoesofEi^-lish  peerage,  174, 

fortune  and  worth,  511. 

Old  joke  versified,  161. 

Prom  Mirtsa  SchalTy,  613. 

PerilouB  praetico  of  punning,  ]  67 

Generous  man,  to  a,  511. 

Plaint  of  the  old  pauper,  163. 

Heaven  an  echo  of  earth,  611 

Printer's  epitaph,  161. 

Impossibility,  the,  612. 

lyGoogle 


Moral  atmosphere,  a,  Pagefill. 

Original  Shy  lock,  Page  705. 

Proud  humility,  512. 

Pilgrim's  Progress,  original  of. 

Sober  dtunbennesa,  513. 

710. 

Wine-driuker'B  metaphors,  612. 

Plagiarism,  great  literary,  715. 

"World's  unappreeiatioc,  the,  513 

Pope's  bull  against  the  oomet,703 

EUSONiL     SKBTOBEg      AND     Abec- 

Proverb  misaseribed  to  Defoe  713 

JIOTES,  763. 

Bobinson  Crusoe:  who  wrote  it. 

Andrfi  Major,  76T. 

712. 

Andr^  and  Arnold,  798. 

ScandinaTian  skull-cups,  7U. 

Bonaparte,  name  in  Greek,  764 

personal  appearance  ot,  765. 

Swapping  horses,  703. 

Milton  and  Fapoleon,  764. 

Trade-unione,  704. 

opinion  of  auicide,  765. 

Use  of  language,  71*. 

Cromwell,  Oliver,  776. 

"Wandering  Jew,  716. 

Eliaafeth,  Queen,  774. 

"Wooden  nutmegs,  703. 

Flam  steed,  the  astronomer,  769. 

PrWTiN  PECULIiRITIES,  150. 

Franklin's  wife,  766. 

Baptismal  names,  150.       . 

Lafayette'a  republieaniem,  764. 

Connecticut  Blue  Laws,  CK tracts 

Luther,  T71. 

from,  153. 

Kelson's  sang-froid,  769. 

"Pun  ishm  elite,  151. 

Pope's  skull,  779. 

Similes,  161.                            [162. 

Person,  781. 

Virginia  penalties  in  old  times, 

flhafcspeare'a  orthodoiy,  778. 

PUIILBS,  290. 

Tallevranttiana,  780. 

Bonapartean  cypher,  292. 

Washington'B  dignity,  763. 

Book  of  riddles,  399. 

Wiokliffe's  ashes,  779. 

Canning's  riddle.  294. 

KOTOTYPES,  699. 

Case  for  the  lawyers,  293 

Air  cushions,  702. 

Chinese  (ea-song,  298. 

Cat  in  the  adage,  703. 

CowpeFs  riddle,  294. 

Charge  of  Light  Brigade,  700. 

CurioaiWes  of  cipher,  301. 

Death  and  life,  288. 

Galileo's  logograph,  297. 

Cork-legs,  703. 

Hewton'S  riddle,  294. 

Curtain  lectures,  7O0. 

Number  of  the  beast,  297; 

Bxoommunioation,  I06. 

Persian  riddles,  298. 

Falls  of  Lanark,  706. 

Prize  enigma,  294. 

Faust  legends,  701.               [707. 

•     Propheticdistioh,  2QG. 

Franklin,  Turgot^s  epigraph  on,' 

Qnincy'B  comparison,  295. 

Know-Nothings,  the/ 709. 

Eebus,  the,  299. 

Mecklenburg    Declaration    of 

Bacon  motto,  299. 

Independence,  708. 

French,  291. 

Napoleon  I.,  7€B. 

Singular  intermarriages,  296. 

Oldest  proTerb,  699. 

What  is  it!   299. 

Old  ballads,  715. 

Wilberforce's  puzzle,  301. 

lyGoogle 


Eras 


(Why,  Page  310. 
1,311. 


Caidinal'a  red  hat,  313. 
Cutting  off  with  a  ehiliing,  312. 
Genealogy,  313. 
Huguenots,  311. 
Juggler's  mystery,  314. 
Boast  beef  of  England,  313. 
Eoyal  demias,  311. 
Sensible  quaek,  313. 
WeathereocitB,  312. 
Why  GermanB  eat  eauer-kraut, 

■Wiy  Pennsylvania  settled,  311. 
Refractohv  RnrajHo,  534. 

Female  soaiety,  505. 

Happy  woman,  character  of,  602 

Letter  to  a  Bride,  507. 

My  Mother,  606. 

Parallel  of  the  seses,  505. 


Praise  of  n 


,504. 


Wifer-mistresB,— Isdy,  505. 

SOHNKTS,  S5I. 

Ave  Maria,  563. 

Dyspepsia,  652. 

Humility,  653. 

In  a  fashionable  church,  5SI. 

WoHe,"about  a,  552. 

Proxy  saint,  the,  652.^ 

Tali.  Wn.TiNG,  212. 

AnatomiBt  fo  hiB  duloinea,  221. 

Borde'a  prolfigue,  216. 

Burlesque  of  Br.  Jotnaon's 
style,  217.      . 

Chemical  valentine,  220. 

Clear  aa  mud,  218. 

Domicile  erected  by  John,  212. 

Foote's  farrago,  216. 

From  the  Curiosities  of  Adver- 
tising, 213. 

From  the  Curiosities  of  the 
Post-office,  214. 


Tall  Wiiitiijg,-— 

Indignant  letter.  Page  219. 
Intramural  teativation,  220, 
Mad  poet,  the,  218. 
NewEpaper  eulogy,  218. 
Ode  U>  Spring,  221. 
Friatine  proverbs  for  preoooioua 

pupils,  222.     - 
Spanish  play-bill,  215. 
Transcendentalism,     definition 

of,  212. 


Discovery  of  Tuloan,  396. 
King  John  and  the  abbot,  4DS, 
Lesson  worth  learning,  402. 
Stratagem  of  Columbus,  3&9. 
Valentibes,  544. 

BuruH,  verses  of,  £46. 
Cardiac  effusion,  547. 
Colored  man's  valentine,  549. 
Cryptographic  correspondence, 

644. 
Digby  to  Archabella,  648, 
Egyptian  serenade,  649. 
Lover  to  his  sweetheart,  547. 
Maearonio,  548. 
Macaulay's  valentine,  545. 
Moore,  verses  of,  549. 
Strategic  love-letter,  544. 
Teutonic  alliteration,  546. 
Written    in    sympathetic    ink. 

Petitions,  550. 

Maids  and  widows,  the,  550. 

Maladroit  appeal,  550. 
Weatbeh-Wisijoh,  317. 
Davy  on  weatber-omena,  317. 
Sheridan's   rhyming  calendar. 


lyGoogle 


