LEASE  HANDLE 
WITH  CARE 

University  of 
Connecticut  Libraries 


3   ^153   Dllb37EE   E 


:j.     VV-      V•Or^         _^0^    '    ■ 


\  C^ 


GOETHE'S 
LITERARY     ESSAYS 


A  SELECTION  IN  ENGLISH 
ARRANGED   BY 

J.  E.  SPINGARN 


WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY 
VISCOUNT  HALDANE 


NEW  YORK 

HARCOURT,    BRACE    AND    COMPANY 

19^1 


^^'f- 

a^^'^ 


COPYRIGHT,    1921,    BY 
HARCOURT,   BRACE  AND  COMPANY,   INC. 


PRINTED    IN    THE    U.  S.  A.  BY 

THE    QUINN    a    BODEN    COMPANY 

RAHWAY.    N.    J. 


FOREWORD 

By  Viscount  Haldane 

Op  Goethe  Sainte-Beuve  held  that  he  was  the  "king 
of  criticism."     Sainte-Beuve  was  among  the  most  com- 
petent of  judges  on  such  a  point,  and  Matthew  Arnold 
has  endorsed  his  conclusion.     The  reason  for  it  is  not 
V/j    far  to  seek.     Goethe's  gifts  as  a  critic  fell  within  a 
'     large  whole  of  knowledge  which  was  his  in  a  degree  for 
which  we  must  look  back  over  two  thousand  years  to 
Aristotle  if  we  wish  to  find  a  rival.     He  wrote  lyrics 
that  are  supreme  in  their  kind.     His  capacity  for  ob- 
servation of  nature  was,  as  Helmholtz  has  pointed  out, 
v/^  of  the  first  order.     Although  he  hated  philosophy,  he 
p3  had,  none  the  less,  a  fine  instinct  for  great  metaphysical 
^  conceptions.     Spinoza  and  Kant  both  made  appeal  to 
^    him,  and  the  appeal  was  responded  to  from  the  depths 
of  his  nature.    The  world  has  seen  no  poem  like  Faust, 
with  the  exquisite  perfection  of  the  "  Dedication  "  and 
the    lyrical    outbursts    with    which    the    first    part    is 
.  ^    studded,  set  in  a  structure  which  signifies  a  profound 
•^j    conception  of  life  as  a  whole,  into  which  far-reaching 
^    reflection  has  entered.     The  second  part  of  the  drama 
^  is  as  great  in  this  latter  regard  as  is  the  first  part  in 
,  ^   its  occasional  exhibitions  of  the  purest  lyrical  gift. 

Goethe's  work  was  uneven,  as  was  his  hfe.     That  is 
f^  what  we  must  expect  from  the  variety  which  both  con- 
tained.   But  through  each   a   great  purpose  is   obvi- 
ously in  process  of  continuous  realization,  a  purpose 

V 


Foreword 

which  never  flags,  of  presenting  the  world  as  a  place 
where  man  may  work  out  what  is  directed  towards 
the  highest  and  belongs  to  what  is  above  Time.  It  is 
aiwajs  the  effort  that  counts,  and  not  any  result  out- 
side, conceived  abstractly  and  apart  from  the  effort. 
The  quality  of  the  struggle  "  to  conquer  life  and  free- 
dom daily  anew  "  is  what  constitutes  the  victory.  We 
are  apt  to  remain  with  Goethe's  poetry  and  to  content 
ourselves  with  the  enjoj^ment  of  its  perfection.  But 
that  is  to  miss  half  the  lesson  which  this  man,  one  of 
the  very  greatest  sons  the  earth  ever  bore,  has  to  teach 
us.  It  is  his  outlook  on  life  as  a  whole  which  we  must 
master  if  we  would  learn  for  ourselves  what  freedom 
from  what  is  narrow  means  with  him.  And  this  out- 
look we  find  at  least  as  much  in  his  criticism  as  in  his 
lyrics.  We  have  to  turn  to  the  AutohiographT/,  to 
MeisteVy  and  to  the  Prose  Sayings,  if  we  would 
find  the  other  half.  Beyond  these  books,  too,  there 
remains  much  else  which  it  would  occupy  years  for 
the  student  to  discover  for  himself  unaided. 

That  IS  why  a  book  such  as  that  to  which  these  lines 
are  written  by  way  of  preface  may  prove  a  source  of 
help  and  inspiration  to  the  general  reader. 


VI 


CONTENTS 

I.     THE  THEORY  OF  ART  page 

On  German  Architecture 3 

Introduction  to  the  Propylcea 15 

Upon  the  Laocoon       ....          ...  22 

The  Collector  and  his  Friends 36 

On  Truth  and  Probability  in  Works  of  Art  .        .  51 

Simple  Imitation  of  Nature,  Manner,  Style  .        .  59 

Ancient  and  Modern 65 

Notes  on  Dilettantism        ....         .        .  71 


II.    THE  THEORY  OF  LITERATURE 

The  Production  of  a  National  Classic 
Goethe's  Theory  of  a  World  Literature 
On  Epic  and  Dramatic  Poetry  . 
Supplement  to  Aristotle's  Poetics 
t^On  the  German  Theatre 
^^Jl^ieck's  Dramaturgic  Fragments 
On  Didactic   Poetry 
Superstition  and  Poetry 
The  Methods  of  French  Criticism 
i-On  Criticism 


83 
89 
100 
104 
109 
126 
130 
133 
134 
140 


III.  ON  SHAKESPEARE 

'^ilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  Hamlet    .        .        .145 

Shakespeare  ad   Infinitum 174 

JPhe  First  Edition  of  Hamlet     .        .    ,    .        .        .190 
-^roilus  and  Cressida     .        .        .       ,    *   .       .       .195 

IV.  ON  OTHER  WRITERS 

Goethe  as  a  Young  Reviewer 199 

r^yron's  Manfred 202 

^-^Byron's  Don  Juan 205 

t»^Calderon's  Daughter  of  the  Air         ....  208 

*-JVroliere's  Misanthrope ^  .  212 

Old  German   Folksongs 213 

Folksongs  again  Commended 220 

Laurence  Sterne 222 

The  English  Reviewers 224 

German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Youth     .        .        .  226 


Vll 


Contents 


EXTRACTS  FROM  THE  CONVERSATIONS 

WITH    ECKERMANN  PAGE 

The  Universality  of  Poetry,  249;  Poetry  and 
Patriotism,  251 ;  Poetry  and  History,  253;  Origi- 
nality, 255;  Personality  in  Art,  258;  Subject- 
matter  of  Poetry,  259;  The  Influence  of  En- 
vironment, 261;  Culture  and  Morals,  263; 
Classic  and  Romantic,  263;  Taste,  264;  Style, 
265 ;  Intellect  and  Imagination,  266 ;  Definition 
of  Poetry,  266;  Definition  of  Beauty,  266; 
Architecture  and  Music,  267 ;  Primitive  Poetry, 
267;  Weltliteratur,  267;  French  Critics,  268;  jHie 
fc-^nstruction  of  a  Good  Play,  268;  Dramatic 
Unities  270;  The  Theatre,  271;  Acting,  27'l; 
Dramatic  Situations,  272;  Management  of  the 
Theatre,  272;  Menander,  273;  Calderon,  273; 
Moliere,  273;  Shakespeare,  275;  A.  W.  Schle- 
gel's  Lectures~~on  Dramatic  Art  and  Literature, 
276;  The  French  Romanticists,  277;  Victor 
Hugo,  279;  The  "Idea"  of  Tasso  and  Faust, 
280;  Schiller,  282;  Edinburgh  Review,  283; 
Byron,  283;  Scott,  286. 

APPENDIX 

I.     On  the  Selection  and  Translation  of  the  Es- 
says  in   this   Volume 291 

XL    On  the  Chronology  of  Goethe's  Critical  Studies    295 

INDEX     «      .      V      .       .      A      .:     «      i.j      >-       •     301 


Via 


THE  THEORY  OF  ART 


ON  GERMAN  ARCHITECTURE 

(1773) 

Von  Deutscheb  Baukunst 

D.  M. 

Ervini  a  Steinbach 

As  I  wandered  about  at  your  grave,  noble  Erwin,^  in 
order  to  pour  out  my  veneration  for  you  at  the  sacred 
spot  itself,  I  looked  for  the  stone  which  bore  this  in- 
scription: "Anno  Domini  1318,  XVI.  Kal.  Febr. 
obiit  Magister  Ervinus,  Gubernator  Fabricae  Ecclesiae 
Argentinensis ;"  and  when  I  could  not  find  it  and  none 
of  your  countrymen  could  point  it  out  to  me,  I  became 
sad  of  soul,  and  my  heart,  younger,  warmer,  more 
tender  and  better  than  it  is  now,  vowed  a  memorial  to 
you,  of  marble  or  sandstone,  as  might  be  in  my  power, 
when  I  came  into  the  peaceful  enjoyment  of  my  fortune. 

But  what  need  have  you  for  a  memorial  1  You  have 
built  the  most  splendid  memorial  for  yourself;  and  al- 
though the  ants  who  crawl  around  there  do  not  trouble 
themselves  about  your  name,  yet  you  have  a  destiny 
like  that  of  the  builder  who  heaped  up  mountains  into 
the  clouds. 

To  few  has  it  been  granted  to  create  such  mighty 

lErwin  von  Steinbach,  one  of  the  architects  of  the  Strassburg 
Catliedral. 

3 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

ideas  in  their  minds,  complete,  gigantic,  and  consist- 
ently beautiful  down  to  the  last  detail,  like  trees  of 
God:  to  fewer  was  it  given  to  find  a  thousand  willing 
hands  to  work,  to  excavate  the  rocky  foundation,  to 
conjure  up  towering  structures  upon  it,  and  then  when 
dvin^  to  sav  to  their  sons, — I  remain  with  vou  in  the 
works  of  mv  genius :  carry  on  to  its  completion  in  the 
clouds  what  I  have  begun. 

What  need  have  you  for  memorials!  and  from  me! 
When  the  rabble  utters  sacred  names,  it  is  either  super- 
stition or  blasphemy.  Those  of  feeble  spirit  and  taste 
wiQ  always  have  their  head  tamed  before  your  mighty 
work,  and  genuine  souls  will  come  to  know  you  without 
a  guide. 

Therefore,  honored  man,  before  I  venture  again  my 
patched-up  bark  upon  the  ocean,  destined  as  it  is  more 
likely  to  death  than  to  fame  and  fortune,  see,  here  in 
this  grove  where  bloom  the  names  of  my  loves,  I  cut 
yours  on  a  beech-tree  which  lifts  its  slender  trunk  high 
in  the  air  like  your  own  tower,  and  I  bans'  on  it 
too  this  handkerchief  filled  with  gifts,  not  unlike  that 
sheet  which  was  let  down  from  the  clouds  to  the  holy 
apostle,  full  of  clean  and  unclean  beasts;  for  this  is 
full  of  flowers  and  buds  and  leaves,  and  some  dried 
grass  and  moss  and  fungi,  which  on  my  walk  through 
these  uninteresting  regions  I  coldly  gathered  as  a  pas- 
time for  my  botanical  collection, — I  dedicate  them  to 
death  in  your  honor. 

What  a  trivial  style,  says  the  Italian,  and  passes  by. 
Childishness,  lisps  the  Frenchman,  and  snaps  his  finger 
against  his  snufi^-box  a  la  Grecque.  ^Vhat  have  you 
done  that  you  dare  to  despise.^ 

4 


On  German  Architecture 

But  you.  0  Italian,  you  have  let  the  genius  of  the 
ancients,  arising  from  its  grave,  fetter  and  bind  your 
own..  You  crept  to  beg  for  artistic  knowledge  from  the 
splendid  relics  of  the  olden  time,  you  patched  together 
palaces  from  these  sacred  ruins,  and  consider  your- 
self the  guardian  of  the  secrets  of  art,  because  you  can 
give  account  of  the  measurements  by  inch  and  line  of 
enormous  buildings.  Had  you  felt  more  than  you 
measured,  had  the  spirit  of  the  gigantic  structures  at 
which  you  gazed  come  to  you,  you  would  not  have 
imitated  merely  because  they  did  it  thus  and  it  is 
beautiful.  But  you  would  have  created  your  own  de- 
signs, and  there  would  have  flowed  out  of  them  living 
beauty  to  instruct  you. 

Thus  upon  your  shortcomings  you  have  plastered  a 
whitewashing,  a  mere  appearance  of  truth  and  beauty. 
The  splendid  effect  of  pillars  struck  you,  you  wished  to 
use  them  in  your  building  and  have  great  rows  of 
columns  too;  so  you  encircled  St.  Peter's  with  marble 
passageways,  which  lead  nowhere  in  particular,  so  that 
mother  Xature,  who  despises  and  hates  the  inappropri- 
ate and  the  unnecessary,  drove  your  rabble  to  prosti- 
tute that  splendor  for  public  "  cloaca,"  with  the  result 
that  you  turn  away  your  eyes  and  hold  your  nose  be- 
fore the  wonder  of  the  world. 

Everything  goes  the  same  way:  the  whim  of  the 
artist  serves  the  caprice  of  the  rich  man;  the  writer 
of  travels  stands  agape,  and  our  beaux  esprits,  called 
philosophers,  wrest  out  of  formless  myths  facts  and 
principles  of  art  to  be  applied  to  the  present  day :  and 
their  evil  genius  murders  sincere  men  at  the  threshold 
of  these  mysteries. 

More  harmful  to  the  genius  than  examples  are  rules. 

5 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Before  his  time  individual  men  may  have  worked  up  in- 
dividual parts  and  aspects.  He  is  the  first  from  whose 
mind  come  the  parts  grown  together  into  one  ever-living 
whole.  But  a  school  or  a  rule  fetters  all  the  power  of 
his  insight  and  his  activity.  What  is  it  to  us,  you  mod- 
ern French  philosophical  critic,  that  the  first  inventor, 
responding  to  necessity,  stuck  four  trunks  in  the 
ground,  bound  on  them  four  poles  and  covered  it  all 
with  branches  and  moss?  To  determine  from  this  what 
is  appropriate  for  our  present  needs  is  like  demanding 
that  your  new  Babylon  be  ruled  by  the  old  despotic 
patriarchal  father-right. 

And  in  addition  it  is  not  true  that  this  house  of  yours 
is  the  most  primitive  form  in  the  world.  That  with  two 
poles  in  front  crossed  at  the  end,  two  in  back  and  one 
lying  straight  between  them  for  a  ridge-pole  is,  as  we 
can  notice  every  day  in  the  huts  in  the  fields  and  vine- 
yards, a  far  more  primitive  invention,  from  which  you 
could  hardly  abstract  a  principle  for  your  pig-pen. 

Thus  none  of  your  conclusions  are  able  to  rise  into 
the  region  of  truth,  but  all  hang  in  the  lower  atmos- 
phere of  your  system.  You  wish  to  teach  us  what  we 
ought  to  use,  since  what  we  do  use,  according  to  your 
principles  cannot  be  justified. 

The  column  is  very  dear  to  you,  and  in  another  clime 
you  would  be  prophet.  You  say:  The  column  is  the 
first  essential  ingredient  of  a  building,  and  the  most 
beautiful.  What  noble  elegance  of  form,  what  pure 
grandeur,  when  they  are  placed  in  a  row !  Only  guard 
against  using  them  inappropriately ;  it  is  their  nature 
to  be  free  and  detached.  Alas  for  the  unfortunates 
who  try  to  join  the  slender  shape  of  them  to  heavy  walls ! 
6 


On  German  Architecture 

Yet  it  seems  to  me,  dear  abbe,  that  the  frequent 
repetition  of  this  impropriety  of  building  columns  into 
walls,  so  that  the  moderns  have  even  stuffed  the  inter- 
columnia  of  ancient  temples  with  masonry,  might  have 
aroused  in  your  mind  some  reflections.  If  your  ears 
were  not  deaf  to  the  truth,  these  stones  would  have 
preached  a  sermon  to  you. 

Columns  are  in  no  way  an  ingredient  in  our  dwell- 
ings ;  they  contradict  rather  the  style  of  all  our  build- 
ings. Our  houses  have  not  their  origin  in  four  columns 
placed  in  four  corners.  They  are  built  out  of  four 
walls  on  four  sides,  which  take  the  place  of  columns, 
indeed  exclude  all  columns,  and  where  these  are  used 
to  patch  up,  they  are  an  encumbrance  and  a  super- 
fluity. This  is  true  of  our  palaces  and  churches,  with 
the  exception  of  a  few  cases,  which  I  do  not  need  to 
mention. 

Thus  your  buildings  exhibit  mere  surface,  which,  the 
broader  it  Is  extended, — the  higher  it  is  raised  to  the 
sky, — the  more  unendurable  must  become  the  monotony 
which  oppresses  the  soul.  But  Genius  came  to  our  aid, 
and  said  to  Erwin  von  Stelnbach:  Diversify  the  huge 
wall,  which  you  are  to  raise  heavenward,  so  that  it  may 
soar  like  a  lofty,  far-spreading  tree  of  God,  which  with 
a  thousand  branches,  millions  of  twigs,  and  leaves  like 
the  sand  of  the  sea,  proclaims  everywhere  the  glory  of 
God,  Its  Master. 

When  I  went  for  the  first  time  to  the  Minster,  my 
head  was  full  of  the  common  cant  of  "  good  taste." 
From  hearsay,  I  was  an  admirer  of  the  harmony  of 
mass,  the  purity  of  form,  and  was  a  sworn  enemy  to 

7 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

the  confused  arbitrariness  of  Gothic  adornment.  Under 
the  term,  "  Gothic,"  like  the  article  in  a  dictionary,  I 
piled  all  the  misconceptions  which  had  ever  come  into 
my  head,  of  the  indefinite,  the  unregulated,  the  un- 
natural, the  patched-up,  the  strung-together,  the  super- 
fluous, in  art.  No  wiser  than  a  people  which  calls  the 
whole  foreign  world,  "  barbarous,"  everything  was 
Gothic  to  me  that  did  not  fit  into  my  system,  from  the 
turned  wooden  dolls  and  pictures  of  gay  colors,  with 
which  the  bourgeois  nobility  decorate  their  houses, 
to  the  dignified  relics  of  the  older  German  architecture, 
my  opinion  of  which,  because  of  some  bizarre  scroll- 
work, had  been  that  of  everybody, — "  Quite  buried  in 
ornamentation !  " ;  consequently  I  had  an  aversion  to 
seeing  it,  such  as  I  would  have  before  a  malformed 
bristling  monster. 

With  what  unexpected  emotions  did  the  sight  sur- 
prise me  when  I  actually  saw  it !  An  impression  of 
grandeur  and  unity  filled  my  soul,  which,  because  it 
consisted  of  a  thousand  harmonizing  details,  I  could 
taste  and  enjoy,  but  by  no  means  understand  and  ex- 
plain. They  say  it  is  thus  with  the  rapture  of  heaven. 
How  often  I  returned  to  enjoy  this  heavenly-earthly 
rapture,  to  embrace  the  stupendous  genius  of  our  older 
brothers  in  their  works.  How  often  I  returned  to  view 
from  every  side,  at  every  distance,  in  every  light  of  the 
day,  its  dignity  and  splendor.  Hard  it  is  for  the  mind 
of  man  when  his  brother's  work  is  so  elevated  that  he 
can  only  bow  down  and  pray.  How  often  has  the  even- 
ing twilight  refreshed  with  its  friendly  calm  my  eyes 
wearied  by  too  much  gazing;  it  made  countless  details 
melt  together  into  a  complete  whole  and  mass,  and 
now,  simple  and  grand,  it  stood  before  my  eyes,  and, 
8 


On  German  Architecture 

full  of  rapture,  my  power  unfolded  itself  both  to  enjoy 
and  to  understand  it  at  once.  There  was  revealed  to 
me  in  soft  intimations  the  genius  of  the  great  builder. 
"Why  are  you  astonished?"  He  whispered  to  me.  "All 
these  masses  were  necessary,  and  do  you  not  see  them 
in  all  the  older  churches  of  my  city?  Only  I  have 
given  harmonious  proportion  to  their  arbitrary  vast- 
nesses.  See  how,  over  the  principal  entrance  which 
commands  two  smaller  ones  on  either  side,  the  wide 
circle  of  the  window  opens  which  corresponds  to  the 
nave  of  the  church  and  was  formerly  merely  a  hole  to 
let  the  light  in;  see  how  the  bell-tower  demands  the 
smaller  windows !  All  this  was  necessary,  and  I  de- 
signed it  with  beauty.  But  what  of  these  dark  and 
lofty  apertures  here  at  the  side  which  seem  to  stand  so 
empty  and  meaningless?  In  their  bold  slender  forms 
I  have  hidden  the  mysterious  strength  which  was  to  raise 
both  of  those  towers  high  in  the  air,  of  which  alas  only 
one  stands  there  sadly,  without  the  crown  of  five  towers 
which  I  had  planned  for  it,  so  that  to  it  and  its  royal 
brother  the  country  about  w^ould  do  homage."  And  so 
he  parted  from  me,  and  I  fell  into  a  sympathetic  mood 
of  melancholy,  until  the  birds  of  morning,  which  dwelt 
in  its  thousand  orifices,  greeted  the  sun  joyously  and 
waked  me  out  of  my  slumber.  How  freshly  it  shone  in 
the  morning  rays,  how  joyfully  I  stretched  my  arms 
towards  it,  surveying  its  vast  harmonious  masses,  ani- 
mated by  countless  delicate  details  of  structure!  as  in 
the  works  of  eternal  Nature,  every  form,  down  to  the 
smallest  fibril,  alive,  and  everything  contributing  to  the 
purpose  of  the  whole  1  How  lightly  the  monstrous, 
solidly  grounded  building  soared  into  the  air !  how  free 
and  delicate  everything  about  it,  and  yet  solid  for  eter- 

9 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

nity !  To  your  teaching,  noble  genius,  I  owe  thanks  that 
I  did  not  faint  and  sink  before  your  heights  and  depths, 
but  that  into  my  soul  flowed  a  drop  of  that  calm  rap- 
ture of  the  mighty  soul  which  could  look  on  this  crea- 
tion, and  like  God  say, — "  It  is  good !  " 

And  now  I  ought  not  to  be  angry,  revered  Erwin, 
when  the  German  critic  and  scholar,  taking  the  cue 
from  envious  neighbors,  and  misjudging  the  superiority 
of  your  work,  belittles  it  by  the  little  understood  term, 
"  Gothic  " ;  since  he  ought  rather  to  give  thanks  that 
he  can  proclaim  loudly  that  this  is  German  architec- 
ture,— our  architecture, — whereas  the  Italians  cannot 
boast  of  any  distinctively  native  style,  much  less  the 
French.  And  if  you  are  not  willing  to  admit  to  your- 
self this  superiority,  at  least  show  us  tli.en  that  the 
Goths  have  already  built  in  this  style, — in  which  effort 
you  may  encounter  some  difficulties.  And  finally,  if 
you  cannot  demonstrate  that  there  was  a  Homer  al- 
ready before  Homer,  then  we  will  gladly  allow  the  story 
of  small  attempts,  successful  and  unsuccessful,  and 
come  reverently  back  to  the, work  of  the  master  who 
first  drew  the  scattered  elements  together  into  one  liv- 
ing whole.  And  you,  my  dear  brother  in  the  spirit,  in 
your  search  for  truth  and  beauty,  close  your  ears  to 
the  loud  talk  about  the  plastic  arts, — come,  enjoy, 
survey.  Beware  of  desecrating  the  name  of  your  noblest 
artist,  and  hasten  here  that  you  may  enjoy  and  see  his 
glorious  work.  If  it  makes  an  unfavorable  impression 
or  none,  then  farewell,  hitch  up,  and  take  the  road 
straight  for  Paris. 

But  you  I  would  accompany,  dear  youth,  who  stand 
there,  your  soul  moved,  and  yet  unable  to  harmonize 
10 


On  German  Architecture 

the  contradictions  which  conflict  in  your  mind,  now 
feeling  the  irresistible  power  of  the  great  whole,  now 
calling  -me  a  dreamer  for  seeing  beauty  where  you  see 
only  violence  and  roughness.  Do  not  let  a  misunder- 
standing part  us,  do  not  let  the  feeble  teaching  of  the 
modern  standards  of  beauty  spoil  you  for  vigorous 
though  rough  strength,  so  that  finally  your  sickly  sen- 
sibility is  able  to  endure  only  meaningless  insipidities. 
They  would  have  you  believe  that  the  fine  arts 
originated  in  the  tendency  which  they  impute  to  us  to 
beautify  the  things  about  us.  That  is  not  true!  For 
in  the  sense  in  which  it  could  be  true,  it  is  the  bourgeois 
and  the  artisans  who  use  the  words  and  not  the 
philosopher.    ^^     r^       -.,  .,    .;         ,- ^  cr  v  •••  .^e  ■ 

Art  -Jias-a-4ong  period  of  growth  before  it  is  beau- 
tiful, certainly  sincere  and  great  art  has,  and  it  is 
often  sincerer  and  greater  then  than  when  it  -becomes 
beautiful.  For  in  man  there  is  a  creative  disposition, 
which  comes  into  activity  as  soon  as  his  existence  is  as- 
sured. As  soon  as  he  has  nothing  to  worry  about  or  to 
fear,  this  semi-divinity  in  him,  working  effectively  in 
his  spiritual  peace  and  assurance,  grasps  materials  into 
which  to  breathe  its  own  spirit.  Thus  the  savage  de- 
picts, with  strange  lines  and  forms,  ghastly  figures, 
lurid  colors,  his  weapons  and  his  body.  And  even  if 
these  pictures  consist  of  the  most  arbitrary  and  incon- 
gruous forms  and  lines,  they  will,  without  any  intended 
proportion  or  balance,  yet  have  a  sort  of  harmony; 
for  a  unity  of  feeling  created  out  of  them  a  character- 
istic whole. 

Now  this  characteristic  art  is  the  only  genuine  art. 
If  only  it  comes  fresh  from  the  inner  soul,  expressing 
the    original,    unique    sensibilities,    untroubled,    indeed 

11 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

unconscious  of  any  external  element,  it  may  spring 
from  rough  savagery  or  from  cultivated  sensitiveness, 
yet  it  will  always  be  complete  and  alive.  This  you  can 
see  among  nations  and  individual  men  in  countless  de- 
grees. The  more  the  soul  rises  to  the  feeling  for  rela- 
tions, which  alone  are  beautiful  and  from  eternity, 
whose  master-chords  one  can  demonstrate,  whose  mys- 
teries one  can  only  feel,  in  which  alone  the  life  of  the 
divine  genius  seeks  expression  in  enraptured  melodies ; 
the  more  this  beauty  pervades  the  soul  of  a  genius  so 
that  it  seems  to  have  originated  with  him,  so  that  noth- 
ing else  satisfies  him,  so  that  he  can  bring  nothing  else 
out  of  himself,  the  more  fortunate  is  the  artist,  the  more 
splendid  is  he,  and  the  more  reverently  do  we  stand 
there  and  worship  God's  anointed. 

From  the  level  to  which  Erwin  has  mounted  no  one 
will  drag  him  down.  Here  stands  his  work ;  gaze  at  it 
and  appreciate  the  deepest  feelings  for  truth  and  beauty 
and  proportion,  working  out  of  a  strong,  sturdy,  rough 
German  soul,  out  of  the  narrow,  somber,  priest-haunted 
"  medium  aevum." 

And  our  own  "  aevum  " .?  It  has  neglected  its  genius, 
driven  forth  its  sons  to  collect  strange  excrescences  for 
their  corruption.  The  agile  Frenchman,  who  in  un- 
scrupulous fashion  collects  where  he  will,  has  at  least 
an  ingenuity  in  working  together  his  booty  into  a  sort 
of  unity ;  he  builds  his  wonderful  church  of  the  Magda- 
lene out  of  Greek  columns  and  German  arches  and 
vaults.  From  one  of  our  architects,  who  was  requested 
to  design  a  portal  for  an  old  German  church,  I  have 
seen  a  model  of  perfect,  stately  antique  column-work. 

How  hateful  our  varnished  doll-painters  are  to  me  I 
cannot  express.  By  their  theatrical  positions,  their 
12 


On  German  Architecture 

false  tints,  and  gaily-colored  costumes,  they  have  cap- 
tured the  eyes  of  women.  But,  manly  Albrecht  Diirer, 
whom  these  novices  laugh  at,  your  woodcut  figures  are 
more  welcome  to  me. 

And  you  yourselves,  excellent  men,  to  whom  it  was 
given  to  enjoy  the  higliest  beauty,  and  now  come  down 
to  announce  your  bliss,  you  do  prejudice  to  genius.  It 
will  soar  and  progress  on  no  alien  wings,  even  though 
they  were  the  wings  of  the  morning.  Its  own  original 
powers  are  those  which  unfold  in  the  dreams  of  child- 
hood, which  grow  during  the  life  of  youth,  until  strong 
and  supple  like  the  mountain-lion  he  starts  out  after 
his  prey.  Nature  does  most  in  training  these  powers, 
for  you  pedagogues  can  never  counterfeit  the  multi- 
farious scene  which  she  provides  for  a  youth  to  draw 
from  and  enjoy  in  the  measure  of  his  present 
strength. 

Welcome,  to  you,  young  man,  who  have  been  born 
with  a  keen  eye  for  form  and  proportion,  with  the  fa- 
cility to  practise  in  all  forms.  If  then  there  awakes 
gradually  in  you  the  joy  of  life,  and  you  come  to  feel 
the  rapture  which  men  know  after  work,  fear  and  hope, 
— the  spirited  cries  of  the  laborer  in  the  vineyard  when 
the  bounty  of  the  harvest  swells  his  vats,  the  lively 
dance  of  the  reaper  when  he  has  hung  his  idle  sickle 
high  on  the  beam, — when  all  the  powerful  nerves  of  de- 
sire and  suffering  live  again  more  manfully  in  your 
brush,  and  you  have  striven  and  suffered  enough  and 
have  enjoyed  enough,  and  are  filled  with  earthly  beauty, 
and  worthy  to  rest  in  the  arms  of  the  goddess,  worthy 
to  feel  on  her  bosom  what  gave  new  birth  to  the  deified 
Hercules — then  receive  him,  heavenly  beauty,  thou 
mediator  between  gods  and  men,  and  let  him,  more  than 

13 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Prometheus,  carry  down  the  rapture  of  the  gods  to  the 
earth/ 

1 "  What  I  had  thought  and  imagined  with  respect  to  that 
style  of  architecture,  I  wrote  in  a  connected  form.  The  first  point 
on  which  I  insisted  was  that  it  should  be  called  German,  and  not 
Gothie;  that  it  should  be  considered  not  foreign,  but  native. 
The  second  point  was  that  it  could  not  be  compared  with  the 
architecture  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  because  it  sprang  from 
quite  another  principle.  If  these,  living  under  a  more  favorable 
sky,  allowed  their  roof  to  rest  upon  columns,  a  wall,  broken 
through,  arose  of  its  own  accord.  We,  however,  who  must  always 
protect  ourselves  against  the  weather,  and  everywhere  surround 
ourselves  with  walls,  have  to  revere  the  genius  who  discovered 
the  means  of  endowing  massive  walls  with  variety,  of  apparently 
breaking  them  through,  and  of  thus  occupying  the  eye  in  a 
worthy  and  pleasing  manner  on  a  broad  surface.  ...  If  I  had 
been  pleased  to  write  down  these  views  (the  value  of  which  I 
will  not  deny)  clearly  and  distinctly,  in  an  intelligible  style,  the 
paper  On  German  Architecture  would  then,  when  I  published  it, 
have  produced  more  effect,  and  would  sooner  have  drawn  the 
attention  of  the  native  friends  of  art.  But,  misled  by  the  ex- 
ample of  Herder  and  Hamann,  I  obscured  these  very  simple 
thoughts  and  observations  by  a  dusty  cloud  of  words  and  phrases, 
and,  both  for  myself  and  others,  darkened  the  light  which  had 
arisen  within  me.  However,  the  paper  was  well  received,  and 
rejjrinted  in  Herder's  work  on  German  Manner  and  Art." — ■ 
Goethe,  Autobiography  (1812).  The  "dear  abbe"  to  whom 
Cioethe  is  replying  in  this  essay  is  the  Abbe  Laugier,  author  of 
the  Essai  sur  I' Architecture  (1753). 


14 


INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  PROPYLiEA 

(1798) 

There  is  no  more  striking  sign  of  the  decay  of  art 
than  when  we  find  its  separate  provinces  mixed  up  to- 
gether. 

The  arts  themselves,  as  well  as  their  subordinate 
forms,  are  closely  related  ):o  each  other,  and  have  a 
certain  tendency  to  unite,  and  even  lose  themselves  in 
each  other ;  but  herein  lies  the  duty,  the  merit,  the  dig- 
nity of  the  true  artist,  that  he  knows  how  to  separate 
that  department  in  which  he  labors  from  the  others, 
and,  so  far  as  may  be,  isolates  it. 

It  has  been  noticed  that  all  plastic  art  tends  towards 
painting,  all  poetry  to  the  drama;  and  this  may  fur- 
nish the  text  for  some  important  observations  here- 
after. 

The  genuine,  law-giving  artist  strives  after  artistic 
truth ;  the  lawless,  following  a  blind  instinct,  after  an 
appearance  of  naturalness.  The  former  leads  to  the 
highest  pinnacle  of  art,  the  latter  to  its  lowest  step. 

This  is  no  less  true  of  the  separate  arts  than  of  art 
in  general.  The  sculptor  must  think  and  feel  differ- 
ently from  the  painter,  and  must  go  to  work  differently 
to  execute  a  work  in  relief  from  what  he  would  do  with 
a  round  and  complete  piece  of  statuary.  When  the 
work  in  low^  relief  came  to  be  brought  out  more  and 
more,  and  by  degrees  parts  and  figures  were  brought 
out  from  the  ground,  at  last  buildings  and  landscapes 
admitted,  and  thus  a  work  produced,  half  picture  half 
puppet-show,  true  art  was  on  the  decline ;  and  it  is  to  be 

15 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

deplored  that  excellent  artists  have  in  more  recent  times 
taken  this  direction. 

Whenever  we  enunciate  hereafter  such  maxims  as  we 
esteem  true,  we  shall  feel  a  real  desire,  since  these  max- 
ims are  drawn  from  works  of  art,  to  have  them  practi- 
cally tested  by  artists.  How  seldom  does  one  man  agree 
with  another  concerning  a  theoretic  principle ;  the  prac- 
tical and  immediately  useful  is  far  more  quickly  adopted. 
How  often  do  we  see  artists  at  a  loss  in  the  choice  of 
a  subject,  in  the  general  composition,  according  to 
their  rules  of  art,  in  the  arrangement  of  details ;  the 
painter  doubtful  about  the  choice  of  his  colors !  Then 
is  the  time  to  make  trial  of  a  principle;  then  will  it 
be  easier  to  decide  the  question, — Do  we  by  its  aid 
come  nearer  to  the  great  models,  and  all  that  we  love 
and  prize,  or  does  it  forsake  us  in  the  empirical  con- 
fusion of  an  experiment  not  thoroughly  thought  out? 

If  such  maxims  should  prove  useful  in  forwarding  the 
culture  of  artists,  in  guiding  them  among  difficulties, 
they  will  also  aid  the  understanding,  true  estimation, 
and  criticism  of  ancient  and  modern  works,  and,  vice 
versa,  will  again  be  discovered  in  the  examination  of 
these  works.  This  is  all  the  more  necessary,  since,  in 
spite  of  the  universally  acknowledged  excellence  of  the 
antique,  individuals  as  well  as  whole  nations  have  in 
modern  times  often  misconceived  those  very  things 
wherein  the  highest  excellence  of  those  works  lies. 

An  exact  scrutiny  of  these  will  be  the  best  means 
of  securing  us  against  this  evil.  Let  us  now  take,  as 
an  example,  the  usual  course  of  proceeding  of  the  ama- 
teur in  plastic  art,  in  order  to  make  it  evident  how 
necessary  a  thorough  criticism  of  ancient  as  well  as 
modern  works  is,  if  we  would  profit  by  it, 
16 


Introduction  to  The  Propylcea 

No  person  of  a  fine  natural  perception,  however  un- 
cultivated, can  see  even  an  imperfect,  incorrect  cast  of 
a  fine  ancient  work  without  being  greatly  impressed  by 
it;  for  such  a  representation  still  gives  the  idea,  the 
simplicity  and  greatness  of  the  form,  in  a  word,  the 
general  notion  at  least,  such  as  a  man  of  imperfect 
sight  would  see  at  a  distance. 

We  may  often  observe  how  a  strong  inclination  to- 
wards art  is  awakened  through  such  an  imperfect  re- 
production. But  the  effect  is  analogous  to  the  object 
that  caused  it,  and  such  beginners  in  art  are  rather 
impressed  with  a  blind  and  indefinite  feeling  than  with 
the  true  worth  and  significance  of  the  object  itself. 
It  is  such  as  these  who  are  the  authors  of  the  theory 
that  a  too  curious  critical  examination  destroys  our 
pleasure,  and  who  decry  and  resist  the  investigation  of 
details. 

But  when  by  degrees  their  experience  and  knowl- 
edge become  wider,  and  a  sharper  cast  in  place  of  the 
imperfect  one,  or  an  original  instead  of  a  cast  comes 
under  their  observation,  their  satisfaction  increases  with 
their  insight,  and  continually  advances  when  at  last  the 
originals  themselves,  the  perfect  originals,  become  known 
to  them. 

We  are  not  deterred  by  the  labyrinth  of  thorough 
examination,  when  the  details  are  of  equal  perfection 
with  the  whole  work.  Nay,  we  learn  that  we  are  able 
to  appreciate  the  perfect,  just  so  far  as  we  are  in  a  con- 
dition to  discern  the  defective:  to  distinguish  the  re- 
stored from  the  original  parts,  the  copy  from  the 
model,  to  contemplate  in  the  smallest  fragments  the 
scattered  excellence  of  the  whole,  is  a  satisfaction  that 
belongs  only  to  the  perfect  connoisseur;  and  there  is 

it; 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

a  wide  difference  between  the  contemplation  of  an  im- 
perfect whole  with  groping  sense,  and  the  seeing  and 
seizing,  with  clear  eye,  of  a  perfect  one. 

He  who  devotes  himself  to  any  department  of  knowl- 
edge should  aim  at  the  highest.  Insight  and  Practice 
follow  widely  different  paths,  for  in  the  practical  each 
one  soon  becomes  aware  that  only  a  certain  measure  of 
power  is  meted  to  him.  But  a  far  greater  number 
of  men  are  capable  of  knowledge,  of  insight;  we  may 
even  say  that  every  man  is  so  who  can  deny  himself, 
subordinate  himself  to  objects,  and  does  not  strive  with 
a  rigid  and  narrow  individuality  to  bring  in  himself 
and  his  poor  onesidedness  amid  the  highest  works  of 
nature  and  art. 

To  speak  suitably,  and  with  real  advantage  to  one's 
self  and  others,  of  works  of  art,  can  properly  be  done 
only  in  tlieir  presence.  All  depends  on  the  sight  of  the 
object.  On  this  it  depends  whether  the  word  by  which 
we  hope  to  elucidate  the  work  has  produced  the  clearest 
impression  or  none  at  all.  Hence  it  so  often  happens 
that  the  author  who  writes  concerning  works  of  art 
deals  only  in  generalities,  whereby  indeed  the  mind  and 
imagination  are  awakened ;  but  of  all  his  readers,  he 
only  will  derive  satisfaction  who,  book  in  hand,  ex- 
amines the  work  itself. 

On  this  account,  therefore,  we  may  in  our  essays 
often  excite  rather  than  gratify  the  desire  of  our 
readers ;  for  there  is  nothing  more  natural  than  that 
they  should  wish  to  have  before  their  eyes  any  excellent 
work  of  which  they  read  a  minute  criticism,  to  enjoy 
that  whole  which  is  in  question,  and  to  subject  to  their 
own  judgments  the  opinions  they  hear  concerning  the 
parts. 
18 


Introduction  to  The  Propylwa 

But  whilst  it  is  the  expectation  of  the  authors  to- 
labor  in  behalf  of  those  who  are  already  acquainted 
with  ^ome  works  and  will  see  others  hereafter,  we  shall 
try  to  do  what  is  possible  for  those  who  have  neither 
the  prospect  nor  the  retrospect.  We  shall  make  men- 
tion of  copies,  point  out  where  casts  from  the  antique 
or  ancient  works  themselves,  especially  when  these  are 
within  easy  reach,  may  be  found,  and  thus  forward,  as 
far  as  in  us  lies,  a  true  love  and  knowledge  of  art. 

The  history  of  art  can  be  based  only  on  the  high- 
est and  most  complete  conception  of  art;  only  through 
an  acquaintance  with  the  most  perfect  that  man  has 
ever  been  enabled  to  produce  can  the  chronological  and 
psychological  progress  of  mankind  in  art,  as  in  other 
departments,  be  displayed.  At  first  a  limited  activ- 
ity occupied  itself  in  a  dry  and  dismal  imitation  of 
the  insignificant  as  well  as  the  significant,  then  a  more 
delicate  and  agreeable  feeling  of  Nature  was  developed. 
Afterwards,  accompanied  by  knowledge,  regularity, 
strength  and  earnestness,  aided  by  favorable  circum- 
stances, art  rose  to  the  highest  point,  until  at  last 
it  became  possible  for  the  fortunate  genius  who  found 
himself  surrounded  by  all  these  auxiliaries  to  produce 
the  enchanting,  the  perfect. 

Unfortunately,  works  of  art,  which  give  themselves 
forth  with  such  facility,  which  make  men  feel  them- 
selves so  agreeably,  which  inspire  man  with  clearness 
and  freedom,  suggest  to  the  artist  who  would  emulate 
them  the  notion  of  facility  in  their  production.  The 
last  achievement  of  Art  and  Genius  being  an  appear- 
ance of  ease  and  lightness,  the  imitator  is  tempted 
to  make  it  easy  for  himself,  and  to  labor  at  this  ap- 
pearance. 

19 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Thus,  by  degrees,  art  declines  from  its  high  estate, 
in  the  whole  as  well  as  in  details.  But  if  we  would 
form  to  ourselves  a  true  conception  of  art,  we  must 
descend  to  details  of  details,  an  occupation  by  no  means 
always  agreeable  and  alluring,  but  for  which  gradually 
our  eye's  ready  mastery  of  the  whole  will  richly  indem- 
nify us. 

If  we  work  out  certain  general  principles  through 
the  examination  of  ancient  and  mediaeval  works  of  art, 
we  shall  find  them  particularly  needful  in  our  judgment 
of  contemporary  productions ;  for  in  forming  an  esti- 
mate of  living  or  lately  deceased  artists,  personal  con- 
siderations, regard  or  dislike  for  individuals,  popular 
attraction  or  repulsion,  are  so  easily  mixed  up,  that 
we  are  still  more  in  need  of  principles  in  order  to  ex- 
press a  judgment  of  our  contemporaries.  The  exam- 
ination can  be  undertaken  in  two  ways.  Arbitrary  in- 
fluence is  diminished,  and  the  case  is  brought  into  a 
higher  court.  An  opportunity  is  afforded  for  proving 
the  principles  themselves  as  well  as  their  application; 
and  even  where  we  cannot  agree,  the  point  in  dispute  is 
clearly  and  certainly  ascertained. 

We  especially  desire  that  living  artists,  about  whose 
works  we  may  perhaps  have  something  to  say,  should 
make  trial  of  our  judgments  in  this  way.  For  every 
one  who  deserves  this  name  is  in  our  time  called  upon 
to  form,  out  of  his  own  experience  and  reflection,  if 
not  a  theory,  at  least  a  certain  set  of  receipts,  by  the 
use  of  which  he  finds  himself  aided  in  various  cases.  But 
it  must  have  been  frequently  remarked  how  apt  a  man 
is,  by  proceeding  in  this  way,  to  advance  as  principles 
certain  maxims  which  are  commensurate  with  his  tal- 
ents, his  inclinations,  his  convenience.  He  is  subject 
20 


Introduction  to  The  Propylcea 

to  the  common  lot  of  mankind.  How  many  in  otliet 
departments  follow  the  same  course.  But  we  do  not 
add  to  our  culture  when  we  simply  set  in  motion  with- 
out trouble  or  difficulty  what  already  existed  in  us. 
Every  artist,  like  every  man,  is  only  an  individual  be- 
"ing,  and  will  always  abide  by  one  side;  and  therefore 
a  man  should  take  in  to  himself  as  far  as  possible 
that  which  is  theoretically  and  practically  opposed  to 
him.  The  lively  should  look  about  for  strength  and 
earnestness,  the  severe  should  keep  in  view  the  light 
and  agreeable,  the  strong  should  look  for  loveliness, 
the  delicate  for  strength,  and  each  will  thus  best 
cultivate  his  peculiar  nature,  while  he  seems  to  be 
going  most  out  of  himself.  Each  art  demands  the 
whole  man,  the  highest  step  of  art  all  humanity. 

The  practice  of  the  imitative  arts  is  mechanical, 
and  the  cultivation  of  the  artist  begins  naturally  in 
his  earliest  years  with  the  mechanical.  The  rest  of 
his  education  is  often  slighted,  whereas  it  should  be  far 
more  carefully  attended  to  than  that  of  others  who  have 
the  opportunity  of  learning  from  life  itself.  Society 
soon  civilizes  the  unpolished ;  a  life  of  business  makes 
the  most  open  circumspect.  Literary  labors,  which  by 
means  of  the  press  come  before  the  great  public,  find 
resistance  and  correction  on  all  sides.  But  the  artist 
is  for  the  most  part  confined  to  a  narrow  studio,  and 
has  few  dealings  save  with  those  who  pay  for  his  works, 
with  a  public  that  is  often  guided  only  by  a  certain 
sickly  feeling,  with  connoisseurs  who  worry  him,  with 
auctioneers  who  receive  anything  new  with  formulas 
of  praise  and  estimation  that  would  not  be  too  hig;h 
for  the  most  perfect. 

21 


UPON  THE  LAOCOON 

(1798) 

A  TRUE  work  of  art,  like  a  true  work  of  nature,  never 
ceases  to  open  boundlessly  before  the  mind.  We  ex- 
amine,— we  are  impressed  with  it, — it  produces  its 
effect;  but  it  can  never  be  all  comprehended,  still  less 
can  its  essence,  its  value,  be  expressed  in  words.  In 
the  present  remarks  concerning  the  Laocoon,  our  object 
is  by  no  means  to  say  all  that  can  be  said  on  the  sub- 
ject; we  shall  make  this  admirable  work  rather  the  oc- 
casion than  the  subject  of  what  we  have  to  say.  May 
it  soon  be  placed  once  more  in  a  situation  where  all 
lovers  of  art  may  be  able  to  enjoy  and  speak  of  it, 
each  in  his  own  way. 

We  can  hardly  speak  adequately  of  a  high  work  of 
art  without  also  speaking  of  art  in  general ;  since 
all  art  is  comprehended  in  it,  and  each  one  is  able, 
according  to  his  powers,  to  develop  the  universal  out 
of  such  a  special  case.  We  shall  therefore  begin  with 
some  remarks  of  a  general  nature. 

All  high  works  of  art  are  expressions  of  humanity. 
Plastic  art  relates  particularly  to  the  human  form; 
it  is  of  this  we  are  now  speaking.  Art  has  many  steps, 
in  all  of  which  there  have  been  admirable  artists;  but 
a  perfect  work  of  art  embraces  all  the  qualities  that 
are  elsewhere  encountered  only  separatelj^ 

The  highest  works   of  art  that  we  know  exhibit  to 
us — 
22 


Upon  TJie  Laocoon 

Living,  highly  organized  natures.  We  look,  in  the 
first  place,  for  a  knowledge  of  the  human  body,  in  its 
pares  and  proportions,  inward  and  outward  adaptation, 
its  forms  and  motions  generally. 

Character,  Knowledge  of  the  varieties  in  form  and 
action  of  their  parts ;  peculiarities  are  discriminated, 
and  separately  set  forth.  Out  of  this  results  charac- 
ter, through  which  an  important  relation  may  be  es- 
tablished among  separate  works ;  and,  in  like  manner, 
when  a  work  is  put  together,  its  parts  may  hold  an 
analogous  relation  to  each  other.  The  subject  may 
be— 

At  rest,  or  in  motion.  A  work,  or  its  parts,  may 
either  be  self-centred,  simply  showing  its  character 
in  a  state  of  rest,  or  it  may  be  exhibited  in  movement, 
activity,  or  fullness  of  passionate  expression. 

Ideal.  To  the  attainment  of  this,  the  artist  needs 
a  deep,  well-grounded,  steadfast  mind,  which  must  be 
accompanied  by  a  higher  sense,  in  order  to  comprehend 
the  subject  in  all  its  bearings,  to  find  the  moment  of 
expression,  to  withdraw  this  from  the  narrowness  of 
fact,  and  give  to  it,  in  an  ideal  world,  proportion,  limit, 
reality  and  dignity. 

Agreeableness.  The  subject  and  its  mode  of  exhi- 
bition are  moreover  connected  with  the  sensible  laws 
of  art ;  viz.,  harmony,  comprehensibility,  symmetry, 
contrast,  etc. ;  whereby  it  becomes  visibly  beautiful,  or 
agreeable,  as  it  is  called. 

Beauty.  Farther,  we  find  that  it  obeys  the  laws  of 
spiritual  beauty,  which  arises  from  just  proportion, 
and  to  which  he  who  is  complete  in  the  creation  or 
production  of  the  beautiful  knows  how  to  subject  even 
the  extremes*.: 

23 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Now  that  I  have  defined  the  conditions  which  we  de- 
mand of  a  high  work  of  art,  much  will  be  comprised  in 
a  few  words  when  I  say  that  the  Laocoon  group  fulfils 
them  all,  nay,  that  out  of  it  alone  all  of  th^m  could  be 
developed. 

It  will  be  conceded  by  all  that  it  exhibits  acquaint- 
ance with  the  human  form,  and  with  what  is  charac- 
teristic in  it,  and  at  the  same  time  expression  and  pas- 
sion. In  how  high  and  ideal  a  way  the  subject  is 
treated  will  presently  be  shown ;  and  no  one  who  recog- 
nizes the  harmony  with  which  the  extremes  of  bodily 
and  mental  suffering  are  set  forth  can  hesitate  in  call- 
ing the  work  beautiful. 

On  the  other  hand,  many  will  think  I  am  uttering 
a  paradox  when  I  maintain  that  the  work  is  also 
agreeable.     A  word  upon  this  point. 

Every  work  of  art  must  show  on  the  face  of  it  that 
it  is  such;  and  this  can  be  done  only  through  what 
we  call  sensuous  beauty,  or  agreeableness.  The  ancients, 
far  from  entertaining  the  modern  notion  that  a  work 
of  art  must  have  the  appearance  of  a  work  of  nature, 
designated  their  works  of  art  as  such  through  an  in- 
tentional arrangement  of  parts ;  by  means  of  symmetry 
they  rendered  easy  for  the  eye  an  insight  into  rela- 
tions, and  thus  a  complicated  work  was  made  compre- 
hensible. Through  symmetry  and  opposition  slight 
deviations  were  made  productive  of  the  sharpest  con- 
trasts. The  pains  of  the  artist  were  most  happily 
bestowed  to  place  the  masses  in  opposition  to  each 
other,  and  particularly  in  groups,  to  bring  the  extremi- 
ties of  the  bodies  against  each  other  in  a  harmonious 
position;  so  that  every  work,  when  we  disregard  its 
import,  and  look  only  at  its  general  outline  from  a 
24 


Upon  The  Laocoon 

distance,  strikes  the  eye  by  its  ornamental  air.  The 
antique  vases  furnish  a  hundred  instances  of  this  sort 
of  agreeable  composition,  and  perhaps  it  would  be  pos- 
sible to  exhibit  a  series  of  examples  of  symmetrically 
artistic  and  charming  groupings,  from  the  most  quiet 
vase-sculptures  up  to  the  Laocoon.  I  shall  therefore 
venture  to  repeat  the  assertion  that  the  group  of 
Laocoon,  in  addition  to  its  other  acknowledged  merits, 
is  at  once  a  model  of  symmetry  and  variety,  of  repose 
and  action,  of  contrast  and  gradation,  which  produce 
an  impression  partly  sensible,  partly  spiritual,  agree- 
ably stimulate  the  imagination  by  the  high  pathos  of 
the  representation,  and  by  their  grace  and  beauty  tem- 
per the  storm  of  passion  and  suffering. 

It  is  a  great  advantage  for  a  work  of  art  to  be  self- 
included  and  complete.     An  object  at  rest,  exhibiting 
simple   being,   is    thus   complete   by    and   in    itself.     A 
Jupiter,  the  thunderbolt  resting  in  his  lap;   a  Juno, 
reposing  in  her  majesty  and  feminine  dignity;  a  Min- 
erva, inwardly  intent — are  all  subjects   that  have  no 
impulse  outwards,  that  rest  upon  and  in  themselves ; 
the  first,  the  most  lovely  subjects  of  sculpture.     But 
within   the   noble   round   of   the   mythic   circle   of   art, 
where  these   separate   self-existent   natures   stand   and 
rest,  there  are  smaller  circles,  within  which  the  figures 
are  conceived  and  wrought  out  w^ith  reference  to  other 
figures ;  for  example,  the  nine  Muses,  with  their  leader, 
Apollo,   are   each    conceived    and    executed    separately, 
but  they  become  far  more  interesting  in  their  complete 
and  diversified   choir.      When  art   attempts   scenes   of 
exalted  passion,   it   can  treat  them   also   in   the   same 
manner;  it  may  either  present  to  us  a  circle  of  figures 
holding  a  passionate  relation  to  each  other,  like  the 

25 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Niobe  and  her  children,  pursued  by  Apollo  and  Diana, 
or  exhibit  in  the  same  piece  the  action  and  the  mo- 
tive; we  have  in  mind  such  groups  as  the  graceful 
boy  extracting  the  thorn  from  his  foot,  the  wrestler, 
two  groups  of  fawns  and  nymphs  in  Dresden,  and  the 
noble  and  animated  group  of  Laocoon. 

Sculpture  is  justly  entitled  to  the  high  rank  it  holds, 
because  it  can  and  must  carry  expression  to  its  high- 
est point  of  perfection,  from  the  fact  that  it  leaves 
man  only  the  absolutely  essential.  Thus,  in  the  pres- 
ent group,  Laocoon  is  a  bare  name;  the  artists  have 
stripped  him  of  his  priesthood,  his  Trojan  nationahty, 
of  every  poetical  or  mythological  attribute;  there  re- 
mains nothing  of  all  that  fable  had  clothed  him  with; 
he  is  a  father  with  his  two  sons,  in  danger  of  destruc- 
tion from  two  fierce  animals.  In  like  manner,  we  see 
no  messenger  of  the  gods,  but  two  plain,  natural  ser- 
pents, powerful  enough  to  overcome  three  men,  but,  by 
no  means,  either  in  form  or  action,  supernatural  and 
avenging  ministers  of  wrath.  They  glide  in,  as  it  is 
their  nature  to  do,  twine  around,  knot  together,  and 
one,  being  irritated,  bites.  If  I  had  to  describe  this 
work  without  knowing  the  farther  intent  of  it,  I  should 
say  it  were  a  Tragic  Idyl.  A  father  was  sleeping, 
with  his  two  sons  beside  him ;  two  serpents  twined  about 
them,  and  now  waking,  they  struggled  to  free  them- 
selves from  the  living  net. 

The  expression  of  the  moment  is,  in  this  work,  of 
the  highest  importance.  When  it  is  intended  that  a 
work  of  art  shall  move  before  the  eye,  a  passing  mo- 
ment must,  of  course,  be  chosen ;  but  a  moment  ago  not 
a  single  part  of  the  whole  was  to  be  found  in  the  po- 
sition it  now  holds,  and  in  another  instant  all  will  be 
26 


Upon  The  Laocoon 

changed  again ;  so  that  it  presents  a  fresh,  living  image 
to  a  million  beholders. 

In  prder  to  conceive  rightly  the  intention  of  the 
Laocoon,  let  a  man  place  himself  before  it  at  a  proper 
distance,  with  his  eyes  shut;  then  let  him  open  his 
eyes,  and  shut  them  again  instantly.  By  this  means 
he  will  see  the  whole  marble  in  motion ;  he  will  fear  lest 
he  finds  the  whole  group  changed  when  he  opens  his 
eyes  again.  It  might  be  said  that,  as  it  stands,  it  is 
a  flash  of  lightning  fixed,  a  wave  petrified  in  the  mo- 
ment it  rushes  towards  the  shore.  The  same  effect  is 
produced  by  the  contemplation  of  the  group  by  torch- 
light. 

The  situation  of  the  three  figures  is  represented 
with  a  wise  gradation.  In  the  oldest  son  only  the  ex- 
tremities are  entangled;  the  second  is  encumbered  with 
more  folds,  and  especially  by  the  knot  around  his 
breast ;  he  endeavors  to  get  breath  by  the  motion  of 
his  right  arm;  with  the  left  he  gently  holds  back  the 
serpent's  head,  to  prevent  him  from  taking  another 
turn  round  his  breast.  The  serpent  is  in  the  act  of 
slipping  under  the  hand,  but  does  not  hite.  The  father, 
on  the  other  hand,  tries  to  set  himself  and  the  children 
free  by  force;  he  grasps  the  other  serpent,  which,  ex- 
asperated, bites  him  on  the  hip. 

The  best  way  to  understand  the  position  of  the  fa- 
ther, both  in  the  whole  and  in  detail,  seems  to  be  to 
take  the  sudden  anguish  of  the  wound  as  the  moving 
cause  of  the  whole  action.  The  serpent  has  not  bit- 
ten, but  is  just  now  biting,  and  in  a  sensitive  part, 
above  and  just  behind  the  hip.  The  position  of  the 
restored  head  of  the  serpent  does  not  represent  the 
bite    correctly ;    fortunately,    the    remains    of   the    two 

27 


Goethe's  Literally  Essays 

jaws  may  yet  be  seen  on  the  hinder  part  of  the  statue, 
if  only  these  important  vestiges  are  not  destroyed  in 
the  course  of  the  present  paltry  alterations.  The  ser- 
pent inflicts  a  wound  upon  the  unhappy  man,  in  a 
part  where  we  are  excessively  sensible  to  any  irrita- 
tion, where  even  a  little  tickling  is  able  to  produce 
the  action  which  in  this  case  is  caused  by  the  wound. 
The  figure  starts  away  towards  the  opposite  side, 
the  abdomen  is  drawn  in,  the  shoulder  forced  down, 
the  breast  thrust  out,  the  head  sinks  towards  the 
wounded  side;  the  secondary  portion  of  the  situation 
or  treatment  appears  in  the  imprisoned  feet  and  the 
struggling  arms ;  and  thus  from  the  contrast  of  strug- 
gle and  flight,  of  action  and  suff'ering,  of  energy  and 
failing  strength,  results  an  harmonious  action  that 
would  perhaps  be  impossible  under  other  conditions. 
We  are  lost  in  astonishment  at  the  sagacity  of  the 
artist ;  if  we  try  to  place  the  bite  in  some  different  po- 
sition the  whole  action  is  changed,  and  we  find  it  im- 
possible to  conceive  one  more  fitting.  This,  therefore, 
is  an  important  maxim:  the  artist  has  represented  a 
sensuous  eff'ort,  he  shows  us  also  its  sensuous  cause.  I 
repeat,  the  situation  of  the  bite  renders  necessary  the 
present  action  of  the  limbs.  The  movement  of  the  lower 
part  of  the  figure,  as  if  to  fly,  the  drawing  in  of  the  ab- 
domen, the  downward  action  of  the  shoulders  and  the 
head,  the  breast  forced  out,  nay,  the  expression  of  each 
feature  of  the  face,  all  are  determined  by  this  instant, 
sharp,  unlooked-for  irritation. 

Far  be  it  from  me  to  destroy  the  unity  of  human 
nature,  to  deny  the  s^mipathetic  action  of  the  spiritual 
powers  of  this  nobly  complete  man,  to  misconceive  the 
28 


Upon  The  Laocoon 

actJDn  and  suffering  of  a  great  nature.  I  see  also 
anguish,  fear,  horror,  a  father's  anxiety  pervading  these 
veins,  .swelling  this  breast,  furrowing  this  brow\  I 
freely  admit  that  the  highest  state  of  mental  as  well 
as  bodily  anguish  is  here  represented;  only  let  us  not 
transfer  the  effect  the  work  produces  on  us  too  vividly 
to  the  piece  itself;  and  above  all,  let  us  not  be  looking 
for  the  effect  of  poison  in  a  body  which  the  serpent's 
fang  has  but  just  reached.  Let  us  not  fancy  we  see 
a  death-struggle  in  a  noble,  resisting,  vigorous,  but 
slightly  wounded  frame.  Here  let  me  have  leave  to 
make  an  observation  of  importance  in  art:  The  maxi- 
mum expression  of  pathos  that  can  be  given  by  art 
hovers  in  the  transition  from  one  state  or  condition  to 
another.  You  see  a  lively  child  running  with  all  the 
energy  and  joy  of  life,  bounding,  and  full  of  delight; 
he  is  unexpectedly  struck  somewhat  roughly  by  a  play- 
mate, or  is  otherwise  morally  or  physically  hurt.  This 
new  sensation  thrills  like  an  electric  shock  through  all 
his  limbs,  and  this  transition  is  full  of  pathos  in  the 
highest  meaning ;  it  is  a  contrast  of  which  one  can  form 
no  idea  without  having  seen  it.  In  this  case  plainly  the 
spiritual  as  well  as  the  physical  man  is  in  action.  If 
during  the  transition  there  still  remain  evident  traces 
of  the  previous  state,  the  result  is  the  noblest  subject 
for  plastic  art,  as  is  the  case  in  the  Laocoon  where 
action  and  suffering  are  shown  in  the  same  instant. 
Thus,  for  instance,  Eurydice,  bitten  in  the  heel  by  the 
snake  she  has  trodden  on,  as  she  goes  joyfully  through 
the  meadow  with  the  flowers  she  has  collected,  would 
make  a  statue  of  great  pathos,  if  the  twofold  state, 
the  joyful  advance  and  its  painful   arrest,  might   be 

29 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

expressed  not  only  by  the  flowers  that  she  lets  fall,  but 
by  the  direction  of  her  limbs  and  the  doubtful  fluttering 
of  her  dress. 

Having  now  a  clear  conception,  in  this  respect,  of 
the  main  figure,  we  shall  be  enabled  to  give  a  free  and 
secure  glance  over  the  relations,  contrasts,  and  grada- 
tions of  the  collective  parts  of  the  whole. 

The  choice  of  subject  is  one  of  the  happiest  that  can 
be  imagined, — men  struggling  with  dangerous  animals, 
and  animals  that  do  not  act  as  a  mass  of  concentrated 
force,  but  with  divided  powers ;  that  do  not  rush  in  at 
one  side,  nor  oifer  a  combined  resistance,  but  capable 
by  their  prolonged  organization  of  paralyzing  without 
injuring  them,  three  men,  or  more  or  less.  From  the 
action  of  this  numbing  force  results,  consistently  with 
the  most  violent  action,  a  pervading  unity  and  repose 
throughout  the  whole.  The  different  action  of  the  ser- 
pents is  exhibited  in  gradation.  The  one  is  simply 
twined  around  its  victims,  the  other  becomes  irritated 
and  bites  its  antagonist.  The  three  figures  are  in  like 
manner  most  wisely  selected:  a  strong,  well-developed 
man,  but  evidently  past  the  age  of  greatest  energy, 
and  therefore  less  able  to  endure  pain  and  suffering. 
Substitute  in  his  place  a  robust  young  man  and  the 
charm  of  the  group  vanishes.  Joined  with  him  in  his 
suffering  are  two  boys,  small  in  proportion  to  his 
figure;  again  still  two  natures  susceptible  of  pain. 

The  struggles  of  the  youngest  are  powerless ;  he  is 
frightened,  but  not  injured.  The  father  struggles  pow- 
erfully, but  ineffectually ;  his  efforts  have  rather  the 
effect  to  exasperate  the  opposed  force.  His  opponent, 
becoming  irritated,  wounds  him.  Tlic  eldest  son  is 
least  encumbered.  He  suffers  neither  anguish  nor 
30 


Upon  The  Laocoon 

pain;  he  is  frightened  by  the  sudden  wounding  of  his 
father,  and  his  movement  thereupon ;  he  cries  out,  at  the 
same  moment  endeavoring  to  free  his  foot  from  the  ser- 
pent's fold.  Here  then  is  spectator,  witness,  and  ac- 
cessory to  the  fact;  and  thus  the  work  is  completed. 
Let  me  here  repeat  what  I  alluded  to  above, — that  all 
three  figures  exhibit  a  twofold  action,  and  thus  are  oc- 
cupied in  most  manifold  ways.  Tlie  youngest  son 
strives  to  free  himself  by  raising  his  right  arm,  and 
with  his  left  hand  keeps  back  the  serpent's  head;  he  is 
striving  to  alleviate  the  present,  and  avert  the  greater, 
evil, — the  highest  degree  of  action  he  can  attain  in  his 
present  imprisoned  condition.  The  father  is  striving  tO' 
shake  off  the  serpents,  while  his  body  recoils  from  the 
immediate  bite.  The  oldest  son  is  terrified  by  his 
father's  starting,  and  seeks  at  the  same  time  to  free 
himself  from  the  lightly  entwining  serpent. 

The  choice  of  the  highest  moment  of  expression  has 
already  been  spoken  of  as  a  great  advantage  possessed 
by  this  work  of  art;  let  us  now  consider  this  problem 
in  greater  detail. 

We  assumed  the  case  of  natural  serpents  twining 
about  a  father  sleeping  by  his  sons,  so  that  in  consider- 
ing the  separate  moments,  we  might  be  led  to  a  climax 
of  interest.  The  first  moments  of  the  serpents'  winding 
about  them  in  sleep  are  portentous,  but  not  significant 
for  art.  We  might  perhaps  imagine  an  infant  Hercules 
asleep,  with  a  serpent  twined  about  him;  but  in  this 
case  the  form  in  repose  would  show  us  what  we  were  to 
expect  when  he  waked. 

Let  us  now  proceed  and  figure  to  ourselves  a  father 
with  his  children,  when  first — let  it  have  happened  how 
it  may — he  discovers   the  serpents   wound   about  him. 

31 


Goethe's  Literar^y  Essays 

There  is  only  one  moment  of  the  highest  interest,^ — 
when  one  of  the  figures  is  made  defenseless  by  the  pres- 
sure, the  second  can  still  fight,  but  is  wounded,  the  third 
still  retains  a  hope  of  escape.  In  the  first  condition  is 
the  younger  son ;  in  the  second,  the  father ;  in  the  third, 
the  eldest  son.  Seek  now  to  find  another,  a  fourth  con- 
dition! Try  to  change  the  order  of  the  dramatis  'per- 
sonae! 

If  we  now  consider  the  treatment  from  the  begin- 
ning, we  must  acknowledge  that  it  has  reached  the  high- 
est point;  and  in  like  manner,  if  we  reliect  upon  the 
succeeding  moments,  we  shall  perceive  that  the  whole 
group  must  necessarily  be  changed,  and  that  no  mo- 
ment can  be  found  equal  to  this  in  artistic  significance. 
The  youngest  son  will  either  be  suffocated  by  the  en- 
twining serpent,  or  should  he  in  his  helpless  condi- 
tion exasperate  it,  he  must  be  bitten.  Neither  alterna- 
tive could  we  endure,  since  they  suppose  an  extremity 
unsuitable  for  representation.  As  to  the  father,  he 
would  either  be  bitten  by  the  serpent  in  other  places, 
whereby  the  position  of  the  body  would  be  entirely 
changed  and  the  previous  wounds  would  either  be  lost 
to  the  beholder  or,  if  made  evident,  would  be  loath- 
some, or  the  serpent  might  turn  about  and  assail  the 
eldest  son,  whose  attention  would  then  be  turned  to 
himself, — the  scene  loses  its  participator,  the  last 
glimpse  of  hope  disappears  from  the  group,  the  situa- 
tion is  no  longer  tragical,  it  is  fearful.  The  figure 
of  the  father,  which  is  now  self-centred  in  its  great- 
ness and  its  suffering,  would  in  that  case  be  turned 
towards  the  son  and  become  a  sympathizing  subordi- 
nate. 
32 


Upon  The  Laocoon 

Man  has,  for  his  own  and  others'  sufferings,  only 
three  sorts  of  sensations,  apprehension,  terror,  and 
compa&sion, — the  anxious  foreseeing  of  an  approaching 
evil,  the  unexpected  realization  of  present  pain,  and 
sympathy  with  existing  or  past  suffering ;  all  three  are 
excited  by  and  exhibited  in  the  present  work,  and  in 
the  most  fitting  gradations. 

Plastic  art,  laboring  always  for  a  single  point  of 
time,  in  choosing  a  subject  expressive  of  pathos  will 
seize  one  that  awakens  terror;  while  Poetry  prefers 
such  as  excite  apprehension  and  compassion.  In  the 
group  of  Laocoon  the  suffering  of  the  father  awak- 
ens terror,  and  that  in  the  highest  degree.  Sculpture 
has  done  her  utmost  for  him,  but,  partly  to  run  through 
the  circle  of  human  sensations,  partly  to  soften  the 
effect  of  so  much  of  the  terrible,  it  excites  pity  for 
the  younger  son,  and  apprehension  for  the  elder, 
through  the  hope  that  still  exists  for  him.  Thus,  by 
means  of  variety,  the  artists  have  introduced  a  certain 
balance  into  their  work,  have  softened  and  height- 
ened effect  by  other  effects,  and  completed  at  once  a 
spiritual  and  sensuous  whole. 

In  a  word,  we  dare  boldly  affirm  that  this  work 
exhausts  its  subject  and  happily  fulfils  all  the  condi- 
tions of  art.  It  teaches  us  that  if  the  master  can  in- 
fuse his  feeling  of  beauty  into  tranquil  and  simple  sub- 
jects, this  feeling  can  also  be  exhibited  in  its  highest 
energy  and  dignity  when  it  manifests  itself  in  the  crea- 
tion of  varied  characters,  and  knows  how,  by  artistic 
imitation,  to  temper  and  control  the  passionate  out- 
break of  human  feeling.  We  shall  give  in  the  sequel 
a  full  account  of  the  statues  known  by  the  name  of  the 

33 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

family  of  Niobe,  as  well  as  the  group  of  the  Farnesian 
Bull ;  these  are  among  the  few  representations  of  pathos 
that  remain  to  us  of  antique  sculpture. 

It  has  been  the  usual  fate  of  the  moderns  to  blunder 
in  their  choice  of  subjects  of  this  sort.  When  Milo, 
with  both  his  hands  fast  in  the  cleft  of  a  tree,  is  at- 
tacked by  a  lion,  art  in  vain  endeavors  to  create  a 
work  that  will  excite  a  sincere  sympathy.  A  twofold 
suffering,  a  fruitless  struggle,  a  helpless  state,  a  certain 
defeat  can  only  excite  horror,  if  they  do  not  leave  us 
cold. 

Finally,  a  word  concerning  this  subject  in  its  con- 
nection with  poetry. 

It  is  doing  Virgil  and  poetic  art  a  great  injustice  to 
compare  even  for  a  moment  this  most  succinct  achieve- 
ment of  Sculpture  with  the  episodical  treatment  of 
the  subject  in  the  zEneid.  Since  the  unhappy  exile, 
^neas,  is  to  recount  how  he  and  his  fellow-citizens  were 
guilty  of  the  unpardonable  folly  of  bringing  the  famous 
horse  into  their  city,  the  Poet  must  hit  upon  some  way 
to  provide  a  motive  for  this  action.  Everything  is 
subordinated  to  this  end,  and  the  story  of  Laocoon 
stands  here  as  a  rhetorical  argument  to  justify  an 
exaggeration  if  only  it  serves  its  purpose.  Two  mon- 
strous serpents  come  out  of  the  sea  with  crested  heads ; 
they  rush  upon  the  children  of  the  priest  who  had  in- 
jured the  horse,  encircle  them,  bite  them,  besmear  them, 
twist  and  twine  about  the  breast  and  head  of  the  father 
as  he  hastens  to  their  assistance,  and  hold  up  their  heads 
in  triumph  while  the  victim,  inclosed  in  their  folds, 
screams  in  vain  for  help.  The  people  are  horror-struck 
and  fly  at  once  ;  no  one  dares  to  be  a  patriot  any  longer ; 
and  the  hearer,  satiated  with  the  horror  of  the  strange 
34 


Upon  The  Laocoon 

and  loathsome   story,  is   willing   to   let   the   horse  be 
brought  into  the  city. 

Thus,  in  Virgil,  the  story  of  Laocoon  serves  only  as 
a  step  to  a  higher  aim,  and  it  is  a  great  question  whether 
the  occurrence  be  in  itself  a  poetic  subject. 


35 


THE  COLLECTOR  AND  HIS  FRIENDS 

(1799) 

Yesterday  a  stranger  made  his  appearance,  whose 
name  I  was  already  familiar  with,  and  who  has  the 
reputation  of  a  skilful  connoisseur/  I  was  pleased  to 
see  him,  made  him  acquainted  generally  with  my  posses- 
sessions,  let  him  choose  what  he  would  from  what  I  ex- 
hibited to  him.  I  soon  noticed  his  cultivated  eye  for 
works  of  art,  and  especially  for  their  history.  He  knew 
the  masters  as  well  as  the  scholars ;  in  cases  of  doubt- 
ful works  he  was  familiar  with  the  grounds  of  un- 
certainty, and  his  conversation  was  highly  interesting 
to  me. 

Perhaps  I  should  have  been  hurried  on  to  open  my- 
self in  a  more  lively  manner  towards  him,  had  not  my 
resolve  to  sound  my  guest  made  me  from  the  first  take 
a  more  quiet  tone.  His  judgment  in  many  cases  agreed 
with  mine;  in  many  I  was  forced  to  admire  his  sharp 
and  practised  eye.  The  first  thing  that  struck  me  was 
his  unmitigated  hatred  of  all  Mannerists.  I  was  in 
pain  for  some  of  my  favorite  pictures,  and  was  curious 
to  discover  from  what  source  such  a  dislike  could 
spring.  .  .   . 

Before  we  were  all  assembled  I  seized  an  opportunity 

to  lend  a  helping  hand  to  my  poor  mannerists  against 

the  stranger.     I  spoke  of  their  beautiful  nature,  their 

1  Alois  Hirt,  protagonist  of  the  theory  of  the  "  characteristic." 

36 


The  Collector  and  His  Friends 

happy  handling,  their  grace,  and  added,  to  keep 
myself  safe:  Thus  much  I  say  only  to  claim  for  them 
a  certain  degree  of  forbearance,  though  I  admit  that 
that  high  beauty,  which  is  the  highest  end  and  aim  of 
Art,  is  in  fact  quite  a  different  thing. 

He  replied — with  a  smile  that  did  not  altogether 
please  me,  inasmuch  as  it  seemed  to  express  a  special 
self-satisfaction  and  a  sort  of  compassion  for  me: — 
Are  you  then  stanch  in  the  old-fashioned  principle  that 
Beauty  is  the  last  aim  of  art? 

I  answered  that  I  was  not  aware  of  any  higher. 
Can  you  tell  me  what  Beauty  is?  he  exclaimed. 
Perhaps  not,  I  replied;  but  I  can  show  it  to  you. 
Let  us  go  and  see,  even  by  candlelight,  a  fine  cast  of 
Apollo  or  a  beautiful  marble  bust  of  Bacchus  that  I 
possess,  and  try  if  we  cannot  agree  that  they  are  beau- 
tiful. 

Before  we  go  upon  this  quest,  said  he,  it  would  be 
necessary  for  us  to  examine  more  closely  this  word 
Beauty  and  its  derivation.  Beauty  (Schonheit)  comes 
from  show  (JScliein)  ;  it  is  an  appearance,  and  not 
worthy  to  be  the  object  of  art.  The  perfectly  char- 
acteristic only  deserves  to  be  called  beauty;  without 
Character  there  is  no  Beauty. 

Surprised  by  this  mode  of  expression,  I  replied: 
Granted,  though  it  be  not  proved,  that  beauty  must  be 
characteristic ;  yet  from  this  it  only  follows  that  char- 
acter lies  at  the  root  of  beauty,  but  by  no  means  tliat 
Beauty  and  Character  are  the  same.  Character  holds 
to  the  beautiful  the  same  relation  that  the  skeleton  does 
to  the  living  man.  No  one  will  deny  that  the  osseous 
system  is  the  foundation  of  all  highly  organized  forms. 
It  consolidates   and   defines  the   form,  but   is  not  the 

37 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

form  itself;  still  less  does  it  bring  about  that  last 
appearance  which,  as  the  veil  and  integument  of  an 
organized  whole,  we  call  Beauty. 

I  cannot  embark  in  similitudes,  said  my  guest,  and 
from  your  own  words,  moreover,  it  is  evident  that 
beauty  is  something  incomprehensible,  or  the  effect 
of  something  incomprehensible.  What  cannot  be  com- 
prehended is  naught ;  what  we  cannot  make  clear  by 
words  is  nonsense. 

/. — Can  you  then  clearly  express  in  words  the  effect 
that  a  colored  body  produces  on  your  eyes? 

He. — That  is  again  a  metaphor  that  I  will  not  be 
drawn  into.  It  is  enough  that  character  can  be  indi- 
cated. You  find  no  beauty  without  it,  else  it  would 
be  empty  and  insignificant.  All  the  beauty  of  the 
Ancients  is  only  Character,  and  only  out  of  this  qual- 
ity is  beauty  developed. 

Our  Philosopher  ^  had  arrived  meanwhile  and  was 
conversing  with  my  nieces,  when,  hearing  us  speak  ear- 
nestly, he  stepped  forward ;  and  the  stranger,  stimu- 
lated by  the  accession  of  a  new  hearer,  proceeded: 

That  is  just  the  misfortune  when  good  heads,  when 
people  of  merit,  get  hold  of  such  false  principles,  which 
have  only  an  appearance  of  truth,  and  spread  them 
wider  and  wider.  None  appropriate  them  so  willingly 
as  those  who  know  and  understand  nothing  of  the  sub- 
ject. Thus  has  Lessing  fastened  upon  us  the  princi- 
ple that  the  ancients  cultivated  only  the  beautiful; 
thus  has  Winckelmann  put  us  to  sleep  with  his  "  noble 
simplicity  andiserene  greatness  " ;  whereas  the  art  of  the 
ancients  appears  in  all  imaginable  forms.  But  these 
gentlemen  tarry  by  Jupiter  and  Juno,  Genii  and  Graces, 
1  Schiller. 

38 


The  Collector  and  His  Friends 

and  hide  the  ignoble  forms  and  skulls  of  Barbarians, 
the  rough  hair,  foul  beard,  gaunt  bones,  and  wrinkled 
skin  of  jdeformed  age,  the  protruding  veins  and  hang- 
ing breasts. 

In  the  name  of  God,  I  exclaimed,  are  there  then  in- 
dependent, self-existing  works  of  the  best  age  of  An- 
cient Art  that  exhibit  such  frightful  objects?  Or  are 
they  not  rather  subordinate  works,  occasional  pieces, 
creations  of  an  art  that  must  demean  itself  according 
to  outward  circumstances,  an  art  on  the  decline? 

He. — I  give  you  the  specification,  you  can  yourself 
search  and  judge.  But  you  will  not  deny  that  the 
Laocoon,  that  Niobe,  that  Dirce  with  her  stepsons,  are 
self-subsistent  works  of  art.  Stand  before  the  Laocoon 
and  contemplate  nature  in  full  revolt  and  desperation. 
The  last  choking  pang,  the  desperate  struggle,  the 
maddening  convulsion,  the  working  of  the  corroding 
poison,  the  vehement  fermenting,  the  stagnating  circu- 
lation, suffocating  pressure,  and  paralytic  death. 

The  Philosopher  seemed  to  look  at  me  with  aston- 
ishment, and  I  answered:  We  shudder,  we  are  horrified 
at  the  bare  description.  In  sooth,  if  it  be  so  with  the 
group  of  Laocoon,  what  are  we  to  say  of  the  pleasure 
we  find  in  this  as  in  every  other  true  work  of  art?  But 
I  will  not  meddle  in  the  question.  You  must  settle  it 
with  the  authors  of  the  Propylaea,  who  are  of  just 
the  opposite  mind. 

It  must  be  admitted,  said  my  guest,  that  all  An- 
tiquity speaks  for  me ;  for  where  do  horror  and  death 
rage  more  hideously  than  in  the  representation  of  the 
Niobe  ? 

I  was  confounded  by  this  assertion,  for  only  a  short 
time  before  I  had  been  looking  at   the  copper-plates 

39 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

in  Fabroni,  which  I  immediately  brought  forward  and 
opened.  I  find  no  trace  in  the  statues  of  raging  hor- 
ror and  death,  but  rather  the  greatest  subordination 
of  tragical  situation  under  the  highest  ideas  of  dig- 
nity, nobleness,  beauty,  and  simplicity.  I  trace  every- 
where the  artistic  purpose  to  dispose  the  limbs  agree- 
ably and  gracefully.  The  character  is  expressed  only 
in  the  most  general  lines,  which  run  through  the  work 
like  a  sort  of  ideal  skeleton. 

He. — Let  us  turn  to  the  bas-reliefs,  which  we  shall 
find  at  the  end  of  the  book. 

We  turned  to  them. 

/. — Of  anything  horrible,  to  speak  truly,  I  see  no 
trace  here  either.  Where  is  this  rage  of  horror  and 
death?  I  see  figures  so  artfully  interwoven,  so  hap- 
pily placed  against  or  extended  upon  each  other,  that 
while  they  remind  me  of  a  mournful  destiny,  they  give 
room  at  the  same  time  for  the  most  charming  imagi- 
nations. All  that  is  characteristic  is  tempered,  the 
violent  is  elevated,  and  I  might  say  that  Character 
lies  at  the  foundation ;  upon  it  rest  simplicity  and 
dignity;  the  highest  aim  of  art  is  beauty  and  its  last 
effect  the  feeling  of  pleasure.  The  agreeable,  which 
may  not  be  immediately  united  with  the  characteristic, 
comes  remarkably  before  our  eyes  in  these  sarcophagi. 
Are  not  the  dead  sons  and  daughters  of  Niobe  here 
made  use  of  as  ornaments?  This  is  the  highest  luxury 
of  art ;  she  adorns  no  longer  with  flowers  and  fruits, 
but  with  the  corpses  of  men,  with  the  greatest  mis- 
fortune that  can  befall  a  father  or  mother,  to  see  a 
blooming  family  all  at  once  snatched  away.  Yes,  the 
beauteous  genius  who  stands  beside  the  grave,  his  torch 
reversed,  has  stood  beside  the  artist  as  he  invented 
40 


The  Collector  and  His  Friends 

and    perfected,    and    over    his    earthly    greatness    has 
breathed  a  heavenly  grace. 

M}"  guest  looked  at  me  with  a  smile,  and  shrugged 
his  shoulders.  Alas, — said  he,  as  I  concluded, — alas,  I 
see  plainly  that  we  can  never  agree.  What  a  pity  that 
a  man  of  your  acquirements,  of  your  sense,  will  not 
perceive  that  these  are  all  empty  words ;  that  to  a  man 
of  understanding  Beauty  and  Ideal  must  always  be  a 
dream  which  he  cannot  translate  into  reality,  but  finds 
to  be  in  direct  opposition  to  it.   .   .  . 

/. — Will  you  allow  me  also  to  put  in  a  word? 

The  guest  (somewhat  scornfully.) — With  all  my 
heart,  and  I  hope  nothing  about  mere  phantoms. 

I. — I  have  some  acquaintance  with  the  poetry  of  the 
ancients,  but  have  little  knowledge  of  the  plastic 
arts. 

Guest. — That  I  regret ;  for  in  that  case  we  can  hardly 
come  to  an  understanding. 

I. — And  yet  the  fine  arts  are  nearly  related,  and 
the  friends  of  the  separate  arts  should  not  misunder- 
stand each  other. 

Uncle. — Let  us  hear  what  you  have  to  say. 

I. — The  old  tragic  writers  dealt  with  the  stuff  in 
which  they  worked  in  the  same  way  as  the  plastic 
artists,  unless  these  engravings,  representing  the  family 
of  Niobe,  give  an  altogether  false  impression  of  the 
original. 

Guest. — They  are  passably  good.  They  convey  an 
imperfect  but  not  a  false  impression. 

/. — ^Well,  then,  to  that  extent  we  can  take  them  for  a 
ground  to  go  upon. 

Uncle. — What  is  it  you  assert  of  the  treatment  of 
the  ancient  tragic  writers.^ 

41 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

/. — The  subjects  they  chose,  especially  in  the  early 
times,  were  often  of  an  unbearable  f rightfulness. 

Guest. — Were  the  ancient  fables  insupportably 
frightful? 

/. — Undoubtedly;  in  the  same  manner  as  your  ac- 
count of  the  Laocoon. 

Guest. — Did  you  find  that  also  unbearable  ? 

/. — I  ask  pardon.  I  meant  the  thing  you  describe, 
not  your  description. 

Guest. — And  the  work  itself  also? 

/. — By  no  means  the  work  itself,  but  that  which  you 
have  seen  in  it, — the  fable,  the  history,  the  skeleton, — 
that  which  you  name  the  characteristic.  For  if  the 
Laocoon  really  stood  before  our  eyes  such  as  you 
have  described  it,  we  ought  not  to  hesitate  a  moment 
to  dash  it  to  pieces. 

Guest. — You  use  strong  expressions. 

I. — One  may  do  that  as  well  as  another. 

Uncle. — Now  then  for  the  ancient  tragedies. 

Guest. — Yes,  these  insupportable  subjects. 

1. — Very  good;  but  also  this  manner  of  treatment 
that  makes   everything  endurable,  beautiful,  graceful. 

Guest. — And  that  is  effected  by  means  of  "  simplic- 
ity and  serene  greatness  ?  " 

I. — So  it  appears. 

Guest. — By  the  softening  principle  of  Beauty? 

I. — It  can  be  nothing  else. 

Guest. — And  the  old  tragedies  were  after  all  not 
frightful  ? 

/. — Hardly,  so  far  as  my  knowledge  extends,  if  you 
listen  to  the  poets  themselves.  In  fact,  if  we  regard 
in  poetry  only  the  material  which  lies  at  the  founda- 
tion, if  we  are  to  speak  of  works  of  art  as  if  in  their 
42 


The  Collector  and  His  Friends 

2:)lace  we  had  seen  the  actual  circumstances,  then  even 
the  tragedies  of  Sophocles  can  be  described  as  loath- 
some and  horrible. 

Guest. — I  will  not  pass  judgment  on  poetry. 

I. — Nor  I  on  plastic  art. 

Guest. — Yes,  it  is  best  for  each  to  stick  to  his  own 
department. 

/. — And  yet  there  is  a  common  point  of  union  for 
all  the  arts  wherefrom  the  laws  of  all  proceed. 

Guest. — And  that  is — 

/. — The  soul  of  man. 

Guest. — Ay,  ay;  that  is  just  the  way  with  you  gen- 
tlemen of  the  new  school  of  philosophy.  You  bring 
everything  upon  your  own  ground  and  province ;  and, 
in  fact,  it  is  more  convenient  to  shape  the  world  ac- 
cording to  3^our  ideas  than  to  adapt  your  notions  to 
the  truth  of  things. 

I. — Here  is  no  question  of  any  metaphysical  dis- 
pute. 

Guest. — If  there  were  I  should  certainly  decline  it. 

7. — I  shall  admit  for  the  sake  of  argument  that  Na- 
ture can  be  imagined  as  absolutely  apart  from  man, 
bv;t  with  him  art  necessarily  concerns  itself,  for  art 
exists  only  through  man  and  for  man. 

Guest. — ^Where  does  all  this  tend.'* 

7. — You  yourself,  when  you  make  Character  the  end 
of  art,  appoint  the  understanding,  which  takes  cog- 
nizance of  tlie  characteristic,  as  the  judge. 

Guest. — To  be  sure  I  do.  What  I  cannot  seize  with 
my  understanding  does  not  exist  for  me. 

7. — Yet  man  is  not  only  a  being  of  thought,  but 
also  of  feeling.  He  is  a  whole;  a  union  of  various, 
closely   connected  powers ;   and  to   this   whole   of  man 

43 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

the  work  of  art  is  to  address  itself.  It  must  speak  to 
this  rich  unity,  this  simple  variety  in  him. 

Guest. — Don't  carry  me  with  you  into  these  laby- 
rinths, for  who  could  ever  help  us  out  again? 

/. — It  will  then  be  best  for  us  to  give  up  the  dispute 
and  each  retain  his  position. 

Guest, — I  shall  at  least  hold  fast  to  mine. 

7. — Perhaps  a  means  may  still  be  found  whereby,  if 
one  does  not  take  the  other's  position,  he  can  at  least 
observe  him  in  it. 

Guest. — Propose  it  then. 

I. — We  will  for  a  moment  contemplate  art  in  its 
origin. 

Guest. — Good. 

7. — Let  us  accompany  the  work  of  art  on  its  road 
to  perfection. 

Guest. — But  only  by  the  way  of  experience,  if  you 
expect  me  to  follow.  I  will  have  nothing  to  do  with 
the  steep  paths  of  speculation. 

7. — You  allow  me  to  begin  at  the  beginning.? 

Guest. — With  all  my  heart. 

7. — A  man  feels  an  inclination  for  some  object;  let  us 
suppose  a  single  living  being. 

Guest. — As,  for  instance,  this  pretty  lap-dog. 

Julia. — Come,  Bello !  It  is  no  small  honor  to  serve 
as  example  in  such  a  discussion. 

7. — Truly,  the  dog  is  pretty  enough,  and  if  the  man 
we  are  speaking  of  had  the  gift  of  imitation,  he  would 
try  in  some  way  to  make  a  likeness  of  it.  But  let  him 
prosper  never  so  well  in  his  imitation,  we  are  still  not 
advanced,  for  we  have  at  best  only  two  Bellos  instead 
of  one. 


44 


The  Collector  and  His  Friends 

Guest. — I  will  not  interrupt,  but  wait  and  see  what 
is  to  become  of  this. 

/.-^Suppose  that  this  man,  to  whom  for  the  sake  of 
his  talent  we  will  give  the  name  of  Artist,  has  by  no 
means  satisfied  himself  as  yet ;  that  his  desire  seems 
to  him  too  narrow,  too  limited;  that  he  busies  himself 
about  more  individuals,  varieties,  kinds,  species,  in  such 
wise  that  at  last  not  the  creature  itself,  but  the  Idea 
of  the  creature  stands  before  him,  and  he  is  able  to 
express  this  by  means  of  his  art. 

Guest. — Bravo !  That  is  just  my  man,  and  his  work 
must  be  characteristic. 

7. — No  doubt. 

Guest. — And  there  I  would  stop  and  go  no  farther. 

I. — But  we  go  beyond  this. 

Guest. — I  stop  here. 

Uncle. — I  will  go  along  for  the  sake  of  experiment. 

I. — By  this  operation  we  may  arrive  at  a  canon  use- 
ful indeed,  and  scientifically  valuable,  but  not  satisfac- 
tory to  the  soul  of  man. 

Guest. — How  then  are  you  going  to  satisfy  the  fan- 
tastic demands  of  this  dear  soul? 

/. — Not  fantastic ;  it  is  only  not  satisfied  in  its  just 
claims.  An  old  tradition  informs  us  that  the  Elohira 
once  took  counsel  together,  saying,  let  us  make  man 
after  our  own  image ;  and  man  says  therefore,  with 
good  cause,  let  us  make  gods  and  they  shall  be  in  our 
image. 

Guest. — ^We  are  getting  into  a  dark  region. 

7. — There  is  only  one  light  that  can  aid  us  here. 

Guest. — And  that  is.^ 

7. — Reason. 


45 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Gtiest, — How  far  it  be  a  guide  or  a  will-o'-wisp  is 
hard  to  say. 

I. — We  need  not  give  it  a  name ;  but  let  us  ask  our- 
selves what  are  the  demands  the  soul  makes  of  a  work 
of  art.  It  is  not  enough  that  it  fulfils  a  limited  de- 
sire, that  it  satisfies  our  curiosity,  or  gives  order  and 
stability  to  our  knowledge;  that  which  is  Higher  in  us 
must  be  awakened;  we  must  be  inspired  with  reverence, 
and  feel  ourselves  worthy  of  reverence. 

Guest. — I  begin  to  be  at  a  loss  to  comprehend  you. 

Uncle. — But  I  think  I  am  able  to  follow  in  some  meas- 
ure ; — ^how  far,  I  shall  try  to  make  clear  by  an  example. 
We  will  suppose  our  artist  had  made  an  eagle  in  bronze 
which  perfectly  expressed  the  idea  of  the  species,  but 
now  he  would  place  him  on  the  sceptre  of  Jupiter.  Do 
you  think  it  would  be  perfectly  suitable  there? 

Guest. — It  would  depend. 

Uncle. — I  say,  No  1  The  artist  must  first  impart  to 
him  something  beyond  all  this. 

Guest.— Whsit  then? 

Uncle. — It  is  hard  to  express. 

Guest. — So  I  should  think. 

/. — And  yet  something  may  be  done  by  approxima- 
tion. 

Guest. — To  it  then. 

/. — He  must  give  to  the  eagle  what  he  gave  to  Jupi- 
ter, in  order  to  make  him  into  a  God. 

Guest. — And   this    is — 

/. — The  Godlike, — which  in  truth  we  should  never 
become  acquainted  with,  did  not  man  feel  and  himself 
reproduce  it. 

Guest. — I  continue  to  hold  my  ground,  and  let  you 
ascend  into  the  clouds.  I  see  that  you  mean  to  indl- 
46 


The  Collector  and  His  Friends 

cate  the  high  style  of  the  Greeks,  which  I  prize  only 
so  far  as  it  is  characteristic. 

/. — It  is  something  more  to  us,  however;  it  answers 
to  a  high  demand,  but  still  not  the  highest. 

Guest. — You  seem  to  be  very  hard  to  satisfy. 

/. — It  beseems  him  to  demand  much  for  whom  much 
is  in  store.  Let  me  be  brief.  The  human  soul  is  in  an 
exalted  position  when  it  reverences,  when  it  adores ; 
when  it  elevates  an  object  and  is  elevated  by  it  again. 
But  it  cannot  remain  long  in  this  state.  The  general 
concept  of  genus  leaves  it  cold ;  the  Ideal  raises  it 
above  itself;  but  now  it  must  return  again  into  it- 
self; and  it  would  gladly  enjoy  once  more  that  affec- 
tion which  it  then  felt  for  the  Individual,  without  com- 
ing back  to  the  same  limited  view,  and  will  not  forego 
the  significant,  the  spirit-moving.  What  would  become 
of  it  now,  if  Beauty  did  not  step  in  and  happily  solve 
the  riddle?  She  first  gives  life  and  warmth  to  the 
Scientific,  and  breathing  her  softening  influence  and 
heavenly  charm  over  even  the  Significant  and  the  High, 
brings  it  back  to  us  again.  A  beautiful  work  of  art 
has  gone  through  the  entire  circle;  it  becomes  again 
an  Individual  that  we  can  embrace  with  affection,  that 
we  can  make  our  own. 

Guest. — Have  you  done? 

/. — For  the  present.  The  little  circle  is  completed; 
we  have  come  back  to  our  starting  point ;  the  soul  has 
made  its  demands,  and  those  demands  have  been  sat- 
isfied. I  have  nothing  further  to  add.  (Here  our  good 
uncle  was  peremptorily  called  away  to  a  patient.) 

Guest. — It  is  the  custom  of  you  philosophic  gentle- 
men to  engage  in  battle  behind  high-sounding  words,  as 
if  it  were  an  aegis. 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

1. — I  can  assure  you  that  I  have  not  now  been  speak- 
ing as  a  philosopher.  These  are  mere  matters  of  ex- 
perience. 

Guest. — Do  you  call  that  experience,  whereof  an- 
other can  comprehend  nothing? 

I. — To  every  experience  belongs  an  organ. 

Guest. — Do  you  mean  a  separate  one? 

7. — Not  a  separate  one ;  but  it  must  have  one  pecu- 
liarity. 

Guest. — And  what  is  that? 

/.^It  must  be  able  to  produce. 

Guest. — Produce  what? 

/. — The  experience !  There  is  no  experience  which 
is  not  brought  forth,  produced,  created. 

Guest. — This  is  too  much ! 

7. — This  is  particularly  the  case  with  artists. 

Guest. — Indeed!  How  enviable  would  the  portrait 
painter  be,  what  custom  would  he  not  have,  if  he  could 
reproduce  all  his  customers  without  troubling  people 
with  so  many*  sittings  ! 

7. — I  am  not  deterred  by  your  instance,  but  rather 
am  convinced  no  portrait  can  be  worth  anything  that 
the  painter  does  not  in  the  strictest  sense  create. 

Guest  (springing  up). — This  is  maddening!  I  would 
you  were  making  game  of  me,  and  all  this  were  only  in 
jest.  How  happy  I  should  be  to  have  the  riddle  ex- 
plained in  that  manner!  How  gladly  would  I  give  my 
hand  to  a  worthy  man  like  you ! 

7. — Unfortunately,  I  am  quite  in  earnest,  and  can- 
not come  to  any  other  conclusion. 

Guest. — Now  I  did  hope  that  in  parting  we  should 
take  each  other's  hand,  especially  since  our  good  host 
has  departed,  who  would  have  held  the  place  of  me- 


The  Collector  and  His  Friends 

diator  in  your  dispute.  Farewell,  Mademoiselle !  Fare- 
well, Sir!  I  shall  inquire  to-morrow  whether  I  may 
wait  on-  you  again. 

So  he  stormed  out  of  the  door,  and  Julia  had  scarce 
time  to  send  the  maid,  who  was  ready  with  the  lantern, 
after  him.  I  remained  alone  with  the  sweet  child,  for 
Caroline  had  disappeared  some  time  before, — I  think 
about  the  time  that  my  opponent  had  declared  that 
mere  beauty,  without  character,  must  be  insipid. 

You  went  too  far,  jny  friend,  said  Julia,  after  a  short 
pause.  If  he  did  not  seem  to  me  altogether  in  the 
right,  neither  can  I  give  unquahfied  assent  to  you; 
for  your  last  assertion  was  only  made  to  tease  him. 
The  portrait  painter  must  make  the  likeness  a  pure 
creation? 

Fair  Julia,  I  replied,  how  much  I  could  wish  to  make 
myself  clear  to  you  upon  this  point.  Perhaps  in  time 
I  shall  succeed.  But  you,  whose  lively  spirit  is  at  home 
in  all  regions,  who  not  only  prize  the  artist  but  in  some 
sense  anticipate  him,  and  who  know  how  to  give  form  to 
what  your  eyes  have  never  seen,  as  if  it  stood  bodily 
before  you,  you  should  be  the  last  to  start  when  the 
question  is  of  creation,  of  production. 

Jidia. — I  see  it  is  your  intention  to  bribe  me.  That 
will  not  be  hard,  for  I  like  to  listen  to  you. 

/. — Let  us  think  well  of  man,  and  not  trouble  our- 
selves if  what  we  say  of  him  may  sound  a  little  bizarre. 
Everybody  admits  that  the  poet  must  be  born.  Does 
not  every  one  ascribe  to  genius  a  creative  power,  and 
no  one  thinks  he  is  repeating  a  paradox?  We  do  not 
deny  it  to  works  of  fancy;  but  the  inactive,  the  worth- 
less man  will  not  become  aware  of  the  good,  the  noble, 
the  beautiful,  either  in  himself  or  others.    Whence  came 

49 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

it,  if  it  did  not  spring  from  ourselves?  Ask  your  own 
heart.  Is  not  the  method  of  intercourse  born  with  in- 
tercourse? Is  it  not  the  capacity  for  good  deeds  that 
rejoices  over  the  good  deed?  Who  ever  feels  keenly 
without  the  wish  to  express  that  feeling?  and  what  do 
we  express  but  what  we  create?  and  in  truth,  not  once 
only,  that  it  may  exist  and  there  end,  but  that  it  may 
operate,  ever  increase,  and  again  come  to  life,  and  again 
create.  This  is  the  godlike  power  of  love,  of  the 
singing  and  speaking  of  which  there  is  no  end,  that  it 
reproduces  at  every  moment  the  noble  qualities  of  the 
beloved  object,  perfects  it  in  the  least  particulars,  em- 
braces it  in  the  whole,  rests  not  by  day,  sleeps  not  by 
night,  is  enchanted  with  its  own  work,  is  astonished 
at  its  own  restless  activity,  ever  finds  the  familiar  new, 
because  at  every  moment  it  is  re-created  in  the  sweetest 
of  all  occupations.  Yes,  the  picture  of  the  beloved  can- 
not grow  old,  for  every  moment  is  the  moment  of  its 
birth. 

The  maid  returned  from  lighting  the  stranger.  She 
was  highly  satisfied  with  his  liberality,  for  he  had  given 
her  a  handsome  pourboire;  but  she  praised  his  polite- 
ness still  more  highly,  for  he  had  dismissed  her  with 
a  friendly  word,  and,  moreover,  called  her  "  Pretty 
Maid." 

I  was  not  in  a  humor  to  spare  him,  and  exclaimed: 
"  Oh,  yes !  I  can  easily  credit  that  one  who  denies  the 
ideal  should  take  the  common  for  the  beautiful." 


50 


ON  TRUTH  AND  PROBABILITY  IN  WORKS 
OF  ART 

A  Dialogue 

(1798) 

In  a  certain  German  theatre  there  was  represented  a 
sort  of  oval  amphitheatrical  structure,  with  boxes  filled 
with  painted  spectators,  seemingly  occupied  with  what 
was  being  transacted  below.  Many  of  the  real  specta- 
tors in  the  pit  and  boxes  were  dissatisfied  with  this,  and 
took  it  amiss  that  anything  so  untrue  and  improbable 
was  put  upon  them.  Whereupon  the  conversation  took 
place  of  which  we  here  give  the  general  purport. 

The  Agent  of  the  Artist. — Let  us  see  if  we  cannot 
by  some  means  agree  more  nearly. 

The  Spectator. — I  do  not  see  how  such  a  representa- 
tion can  be  defended. 

Agent. — Tell  me,  when  you  go  into  a  theatre,  do  you 
not  expect  all  you  see  to  be  true  and  real? 

Spectator. — By  no  means!  I  only  ask  that  what  I 
see  shall  appear  true  and  real. 

Agent. — Pardon  me  if  I  contradict  even  your  inmost 
conviction  and  maintain  this  is  by  no  means  the  thing 
you  demand. 

Spectator. — That  Is  singular!  If  I  did  not  re- 
quire this,  why  should  the  scene  painter  take  so 
much  pains  to  draw  each  line  in  the  most  perfect 
manner,  according  to  the  rules  of  perspective,  and  rep- 

51 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

resent  every  object  according  to  its  own  peculiar  per- 
fection? Why  waste  so  much  study  on  the  costume? 
Why  spend  so  much  to  insure  its  truth,  so  that  I  may 
be  carried  back  into  those  times?  Why  is  that  player 
most  highly  praised  who  most  truly  expresses  the  senti- 
ment, who  in  speech,  gesture,  delivery,  comes  nearest  the 
truth,  who  persuades  me  that  I  behold  not  an  imitation, 
but  the  thing  itself? 

Agent. — You  express  your  feelings  admirably  well, 
but  it  is  harder  than  you  may  think  to  have  a  right 
comprehension  of  our  feelings.  What  would  you  say 
if  I  reply  that  theatrical  representations  by  no  means 
seem  really  true  to  you,  but  rather  to  have  only  an  ap- 
pearance of  truth? 

Spectator. — I  should  say  that  you  have  advanced  a 
subtlety  that  is  little  more  than  a  play  upon  words. 

Agent. — ^And  I  maintain  that  when  we  are  speaking 
of  the  operations  of  the  soul,  no  words  can  be  delicate 
and  subtle  enough;  and  that  this  sort  of  play  upon 
words  indicates  a  need  of  the  soul,  which,  not  being 
able  adequately  to  express  what  passes  within  us,  seeks 
to  work  by  way  of  antithesis,  to  give  an  answer  to  each 
side  of  the  question,  and  thus,  as  it  were,  to  find  the  mean 
between  them. 

Spectator. — Very  good.  Only  explain  yourself  more 
fully,  and,  if  you  will  oblige  me,  by  examples. 

Agent. — I  shall  be  glad  to  avail  myself  of  them. 
For  instance,  when  you  are  at  an  opera,  do  you  not 
experience  a  lively  and  complete  satisfaction? 

Spectator. — Yes,  when  everything  is  in  harmony,  one 
of  the  most  complete  I  know. 

Agent. — But  when  the  good  people  there  meet  and 
compliment  each  other  with  a  song,  sing  from  billets 
52 


On  Truth  and  Prohability  in  Works  of  Art 

that  they  hold  in  their  hands,  sing  you  their  love,  their 
hatred,  and  all  their  passions,  fight  singing,  and  die 
singing, -can  you  say  that  the  whole  representation,  or 
even  any  part  of  it,  is  true?  or,  I  may  say,  has  even 
an  appearance  of  truth? 

Spectator. — In  fact,  when  I  consider,  I  could  not 
say  it  had.     None  of  these  things  seems  true. 

Agent. — And  yet  you  are  completely  pleased  and 
satisfied  with  the  exhibition? 

Spectator. — Beyond  question.  I  still  remember  how 
the  opera  used  to  be  ridiculed  on  account  of  this  gross 
improbability,  and  how  I  always  received  the  greatest 
satisfaction  from  it,  in  spite  of  this,  and  find  more  and 
more  pleasure  the  richer  and  more  complete  it  becomes. 

Agent. — And  you  do  not  then  at  the  opera  experi- 
ence a  complete  deception? 

Spectator. — Deception,  that  is  not  the  proper  word, 
— and  yet,  3^es  ! — But  no — 

Agent. — Here  you  are  in  a  complete  contradiction, 
which  is  far  worse  than  a  quibble. 

Spectator, — Let  us  proceed  quietly;  we  shall  soon 
see  light. 

Agent. — As  soon  as  we  come  into  the  light,  we  shall 
agree.  Having  reached  this  point,  will  you  allow  me 
to  ask  you  some  questions? 

Spectator. — It  is  your  duty,  having  questioned  me 
into  this  dilemma,  to  question  me  out  again. 

Agent. — The  feeling  you  have  at  the  exhibition  of 
an  opera  cannot  be  rightly  called  deception? 

Spectator. — I  agree.  Still  it  is  a  sort  of  deception ; 
something  nearly  allied  to  it. 

Agent. — Tell  me,  do  you  not  almost  forget  your- 
self? 

53 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Spectator. — Not  almost,  but  quite,  when  the  whole 
or  some  part  is  excellent. 

Agent. — You  are  enchanted? 

Spectator. — It  has  happened  more  than  once. 

Agent, — Can  you  explain  under  what  circumstances? 

Spectator. — Under  so  many,  it  would  be  hard  to 
tell. 

Agent. — Yet  you  have  already  told  when  it  is  most 
apt  to  happen,  namely,  when  all  is  in  harmony. 

Spectator. — Undoubtedly. 

Agent. — Did  this  complete  representation  harmonize 
with  itself  or  some  other  natural  product? 

Spectator. — With  itself,  certainly. 

Agent. — And  this  harmony  was  a  work  of  art? 

Spectator. — It  must  have  been. 

Agent. — We  have  denied  to  the  opera  the  possession 
of  a  certain  sort  of  truth.  We  have  maintained  that 
it  is  by  no  means  faithful  to  what  it  professes  to  rep- 
resent. But  can  we  deny  to  it  a  certain  interior 
truth,  which  arises  from  its  completeness  as  a  work  of 
art? 

Spectator. — ^When  the  opera  is  good,  it  creates  a 
little  world  of  its  own,  in  which  all  proceeds  according 
to  fixed  laws,  which  must  be  judged  by  its  own  laws, 
felt  according  to  its  own  spirit. 

Agent. — Does  it  not  follow  from  this,  that  truth  of 
nature  and  truth  of  art  are  two  distinct  things,  and 
that  the  artist  neither  should  nor  may  endeavor  to  give 
his  work  the  air  of  a  work  of  nature? 

Spectator. — But  yet  it  has  so  often  the  air  of  a  work 
of  nature. 

Agent. — That  I  cannot  deny.     But  may  I  on  the 
other  hand  be  equally  frank? 
54 


On  Truth  and'  Probability  in  Works  of  Art 

Spectator. — Why  not?  our  business  is  not  now  with 
compliments. 

Agent. — I  will  then  venture  to  affirm,  that  a  work 
of  art  can  seem  to  be  a  work  of  nature  only  to  a  wholly 
uncultivated  spectator;  such  a  one  the  artist  appre- 
ciates and  values  indeed,  though  he  stands  on  the  low- 
est step.  But,  unfortunately,  he  can  only  be  satisfied 
when  the  artist  descends  to  his  level;  he  will  never  rise 
with  him,  when,  prompted  by  his  genius,  the  true  artist 
must  take  wing  in  order  to  complete  the  whole  circle 
of  his  work. 

Spectator. — Your  remark  is   curious ;  but  proceed. 

Agent. — You  would  not  let  it  pass  unless  you  had 
yourself  attained  a  higher  step. 

Spectator. — Let  me  now  make  trial,  and  take  the 
place  of  questioner,  in  order  to  arrange  and  advance 
our  subject. 

Agent. — I  shall  like  that  better  still. 

Spectator. — You  say  that  a  work  of  art  could  ap- 
pear as  a  work  of  nature  only  to  an  uncultivated  per- 
son? 

Agent. — Certainly.  You  remember  the  birds  that 
tried  to  eat  the  painted  cherries  of  the  great  master? 

Spectator. — Now  does  not  that  show  that  the 
cherries  were  admirably  painted? 

Agent. — By  no  means.  It  rather  convinces  me  that 
these  connoisseurs  were  true  sparrows. 

Spectator. — I  cannot,  however,  for  this  reason  con- 
cede that  this  work  could  have  been  other  than  excel- 
lent. 

Agent. — Shall  I  tell  you  a  more  modern  story? 

Spectator. — I  would  rather  listen  to  stories  than 
arguments. 

55 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Agent. — A  certain  great  naturalist,  among  other 
domesticated  animals,  possessed  an  ape,  which  he  missed 
one  day,  and  found  after  a  long  search  in  the  library. 
There  sat  the  beast  on  the  ground,  with  the  plates  of 
an  unbound  work  of  Natural  History  scattered  about 
him.  Astonished  at  this  zealous  fit  of  study  on  the  part 
of  his  familiar,  the  gentleman  approached,  and  found, 
to  his  wonder  and  vexation,  that  the  dainty  ape  had 
been  making  his  dinner  of  the  beetles  that  were  pic- 
tured in  various  places. 

Spectator. — It  is  a  droll  story. 

Agent. — And  seasonable,  I  hope.  You  would  not 
compare  these  colored  copperplates  with  the  work  of 
so  great  an  artist.? 

Spectator. — No,  indeed. 

Agent. — But  you  would  reckon  the  ape  among  xhe 
uncultivated  amateurs  ? 

Spectator. — Yes,  and  among  the  greedy  ones !  You 
awaken  in  me  a  singular  idea.  Does  not  the  unculti- 
vated amateur,  just  in  the  same  way,  desire  a  work 
to  be  natural,  that  he  may  be  able  to  enjoy  it  in  a 
natural,  which  is  often  a  vulgar  and  common  way? 

Agent. — I  am  entirely  of  that  opinion. 

Spectator. — And  you  maintain,  therefore,  that  an 
artist  lowers  himself  when  he  tries  to  produce  this 
effect? 

Agent. — Such  is  my  firm  conviction. 

Spectator. — But  here  again  I  feel  a  contradiction. 
You  did  me  just  now  the  honor  to  number  me,  at  least, 
among  the  half-cultivated  spectators. 

Agent, — Among  those  who  are  on  the  way  to  become 
true  connoisseurs. 
56 


On  Truth  and  Probability  in  Works  of  Art 

'Spectator. — Then  explain  to  me,  Why  does  a  per- 
fect work  of  art  appear  like  a  work  of  nature  to  me 
also? 

Agent. — ^Because  it  harmonizes  with  your  better 
nature.  Because  it  is  above  natural,  yet  not  un- 
natural. A  perfect  work  of  art  is  a  work  of  the  hu- 
man soul,  and  in  this  sense,  also,  a  work  of  nature. 
But  because  it  collects  together  the  scattered  objects, 
of  which  it  displays  even  the  most  minute  in  all  their 
significance  and  value,  it  is  above  nature.  It  is  compre- 
hensible only  by  a  mind  that  is  harmoniously  formed 
and  developed,  and  such  an  one  discovers  that  what  is 
perfect  and  complete  in  itself  is  also  in  harmony  with 
himself.  The  common  spectator,  on  the  contrary,  has 
no  idea  of  it ;  he  treats  a  work  of  art  as  he  would  any 
object  he  meets  with  in  the  market.  But  the  true  con- 
noisseur sees  not  only  the  truth  of  the  imitation,  but 
also  the  excellence  of  the  selection,  the  refinement  of 
the  composition,  the  superiority  of  the  little  world  of 
art ;  he  feels  that  he  must  rise  to  the  level  of  the  artist, 
in  order  to  enjoy  his  work;  he  feels  that  he  must  col- 
lect himself  out  of  his  scattered  life,  must  live  with 
the  work  of  art,  see  it  again  and  again,  and  through  it 
receive  a  higher  existence. 

Spectator. — Well  said,  my  friend,  I  have  often 
made  similar  reflections  upon  pictures,  the  drama,  and 
other  species  of  poetry,  and  had  an  instinct  of  those 
things  you  require.  I  will  in  future  give  more  heed 
both  to  myself  and  to  works  of  art.  But  if  I  am  not 
mistaken,  we  have  left  the  subject  of  our  dispute  quite 
behind.  You  wished  to  persuade  me  that  the  painted 
spectators  at  our  opera  are  admissible,  and  I  do  not 

57 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

yet  see,  though  we  have  come  to  an  agreement,  by  what 
arguments  you  mean  to  support  this  license,  and  under 
what  rubric  I  am  to  admit  these  painted  lookers-on. 

Agent. — Fortunately,  the  opera  is  repeated  to-night ; 
I  trust  you  will  not  miss  it. 

Spectator. — On  no  account. 

Agent. — And  the  painted  men.? 

Spectator. — Shall  not  drive  me  away,  for  I  think 
myself  something  more  than  a  sparrow. 

Agent. — I  hope  that  a  mutual  interest  may  soon 
bring  us  together  again. 


58 


SIMPLE  IMITATION  OF  NATURE, 
MANNER,  STYLE 

(1789) 

It  does  not  seem  to  be  superfluous  to  Jefine  dearly  the 
meaning  we  attach  to  these  words,  which  we  shall  often 
have  occasion  to  make  use  of.  For,  however  long  we 
may  have  been  in  the  habit  of  using  them,  and  however 
they  may  seem  to  have  been  defined  in  theoretical  works, 
still  every  one  continues  to  use  them  in  a  way  of  his 
own,  and  means  more  or  less  by  them,  according  to  the 
degree  of  clearness  or  uncertainty  with  which  he  has 
seized  the  ideas  they  express. 

Simple  Imitation  of  Nature 

If  an  artist,  in  whom  we  must  of  course  suppose  a 
natural  talent,  is  in  the  first  stage  of  progress,  and  after 
having  in  some  measure  practised  eye  and  hand,  turns  to 
natural  objects,  uses  all  care  and  fidelity  in  the  most 
perfect  imitation  of  their  forms  and  colors,  never 
knowingly  departs  from  nature,  begins  and  ends  in  her 
presence  every  picture  that  he  undertakes, — such  an 
artist  must  possess  high  merit,  for  he  cannot  fail  of 
attaining  the  greatest  accuracy,  and  his  work  must  be 
full  of  certainty,  variety  and  strength. 

If  these  conditions  are  clearly  considered,  it  will  be 
easily  seen  that  a  capable  but  limited  talent  can  in 
this  way  treat  agreeable  but  limited  subjects. 

59 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Such  subjects  must  always  be  easy  to  find.  Lei- 
surely observation  and  quiet  imitation  must  be  allowed 
for;  the  disposition  that  occupies  itself  in  such  works 
must  be  a  quiet  one,  self-contained,  and  satisfied  with 
moderate  gratification. 

This  sort  of  imitation  will  thus  be  practised  by  men 
of  quiet,  true,  limited  nature,  in  the  representation  of 
dead  or  still-life  subjects.  It  does  not  by  its  nature 
exclude  a  high  degree  of  perfection. 

Manner 

But  man  finds,  usually,  such  a  mode  of  proceeding 
too  timid  and  inadequate.  He  perceives  a  harmony 
among  many  objects,  which  can  only  be  brought  into 
a  picture  by  sacrificing  the  individual.  He  gets  tired 
of  using  Nature's  letters  each  time  to  spell  after  her. 
He  invents  a  way,  devises  a  language  for  himself,  so 
as  to  express  in  his  own  fashion  the  idea  his  soul  has 
attained,  and  give  to  the  object  he  has  so  many  times 
repeated  a  distinctive  form,  without  having  recourse  to 
nature  itself  each  time  he  repeats  it,  or  even  without  re- 
calling exactly  the  individual  form. 

Thus  a  language  is  created,  in  which  the  mind  of  the 
speaker  expresses  and  utters  itself  immediately ;  and  as 
in  each  individual  who  thinks,  the  conceptions  of  spir- 
itual objects  are  formed  and  arranged  differently,  so 
will  every  artist  of  this  class  see,  understand,  and  imi- 
tate the  outward  world  in  a  different  manner,  will  seize 
its  phenomena  with  a  more  or  less  observant  eye,  and 
reproduce  them  more  accurately  or  loosely. 

We  see  that  this  species  of  imitation  is  applied  with 
the  best  effect  in  cases  where  a  great  whole  compre- 
60 


Simple  Imitation  of  Nature,  Manner,  Style 

hends  many  subordinate  objects.  These  last  must  tje 
sacrificed  in  order  to  attain  the  general  expression  of 
the  whole,  as  is  the  case  in  landscapes,  for  instance, 
where  the  aim  would  be  missed  if  we  attended  toO' 
closely  to  the  details,  instead  of  keeping  in  view  the 
idea  of  the  whole. 

Style 

When  at  last  art,  by  means  of  imitation  of  Nature, 
of  efforts  to  create  a  common  language,  and  of  clear 
and  profound  study  of  objects  themselves,  has  acquired 
a  clearer  and  clearer  knowledge  of  the  peculiarities  of 
objects  and  their  mode  of  being,  oversees  the  classes  of 
forms,  and  knows  how  to  connect  and  imitate  those 
that  are  distinct  and  characteristic, — then  will  Style 
reach  the  highest  point  it  is  capable  of,  the  point  where 
it  may  be  placed  on  a  par  with  the  highest  efforts  of 
the  human  mind. 

Simple  Imitation  springs  from  quiet  existence  and 
an  agreeable  subject;  Manner  seizes  with  facile  ca- 
pacity upon  an  appearance ;  Style  rests  upon  the  deep- 
est foundations  of  knowledge,  upon  the  essence  of 
things,  so  far  as  we  are  able  to  recognize  it  in  visible 
and  comprehensible  forms. 

The  elaboration  of  what  we  have  advanced  above 
would  fill  whole  volumes ;  and  much  is  said  upon  the 
subject  in  books,  but  a  true  conception  of  it  can  only 
be  arrived  at  by  the  study  of  nature  and  works  of  art. 
We  subjoin  some  additional  considerations,  and  shall 
have  occasion  to  refer  to  these  remarks  whenever  plas- 
tic art  is  in  question. 

It  is  easy  to  see  that  these  three  several  ways  of 

61 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

producing  works  of  art  are  closely  related,  and  that 
one  may  imperceptibly  run  into  the  others. 

The  simple  imitation  of  subjects  of  easy  comprehen- 
sion (we  shall  take  fruits  and  flowers  as  an  example) 
may  be  carried  to  a  high  point  of  perfection.  It  is 
natural  that  he  who  paints  roses  should  soon  learn  to 
distinguish  and  select  the  most  beautiful,  and  seek  for 
such  only  among  the  thousand  that  summer  affords. 
Thus  we  have  arrived  at  selection,  although  the  artist 
may  have  formed  no  general  idea  of  the  beauty  of 
roses.  He  has  to  do  with  comprehensible  forms ; 
everything  depends  upon  the  manifold  purpose  and  the 
color  of  the  surface.  The  downy  peach,  the  finely  dusted 
plum,  the  smooth  apple,  the  burnished  cherry,  the 
dazzling  rose,  the  manifold  pink,  the  variegated  tulip, 
all  these  he  can  have  at  will  in  his  quiet  studio  in  the 
perfection  of  their  bloom  and  ripeness.  He  can  put  them 
in  a  favorable  light;  his  eye  will  become  accustomed 
to  the  harmonious  play  of  glittering  colors ;  each  year 
would  give  him  a  fresh  opportunity  of  renewing  the 
same  models,  and  he  would  be  enabled,  without  labori- 
ous abstraction,  by  means  of  quiet  imitative  observa- 
tion, to  know  and  seize  the  peculiarities  of  the  simple 
existence  of  these  subjects.  In  this  way  were  produced 
the  masterpieces  of  a  Huysum  and  Rachel  Ruysch, 
artists  who  seem  almost  to  have  accomplished  the  im- 
possible. It  is  evident  that  an  artist  of  this  sort  must 
become  greater  and  more  characteristic,  if  in  addition 
to  his  talent,  he  is  also  acquainted  with  botany;  if  he 
knows,  from  the  root  up,  the  influences  of  the  several 
parts  upon  the  expansion  and  growth  of  the  plant, 
their  office,  and  reciprocal  action ;  if  he  understands 
and  reflects  upon  the  successive  development  of  leaves, 
62 


Simple  Imitation  of  Nature,  Manner,  Styh 

fruit,  flowers,  and  the  new  germ.  By  this  means  he 
will  not  only  exhibit  his  taste  in  the  selection  of  super- 
ficial agppearance,  but  will  at  once  win  admiration  and 
give  instruction  through  a  correct  representation  of 
properties.  In  this  wise  it  might  be  said  that  he  had 
formed  a  style ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  easy  to 
see  how  such  a  master,  if  he  proceeded  with  less  thor- 
oughness, if  he  endeavored  to  give  only  the  striking 
and  dazzling,  would  soon  pass  into  mannerism. 

Simple  Imitation  therefore  labors  in  the  ante-chamber 
that  leads  to  Style.  In  proportion  to  the  truth,  care, 
and  purity  with  which  it  goes  to  work,  the  composure 
with  which  it  examines  and  feels,  the  calmness  with 
which  it  proceeds  to  imitate,  the  degree  of  reflection 
it  uses,  that  is  to  say,  with  which  it  learns  to  compare 
the  like  and  separate  the  unlike,  and  to  arrange  sepa- 
rate objects  under  one  general  idea, — will  be  its 
title  to  step  upon  the  threshold  of  the  sanctuary 
itself. 

If  now  we  consider  Manner  more  carefully,  we  shall 
see  that  it  may  be,  in  the  highest  sense  and  purest 
signification  of  the  word,  the  middle  ground  between 
simple  imitation  of  nature  and  style. 

The  nearer  it  approaches,  with  its  more  facile  treat- 
ment, to  faithful  imitation  and  on  the  other  side,  the 
more  earnestly  it  endeavors  to  seize  and  comprehensibly 
express  the  character  of  objects,  the  more  it  strives,  by 
means  of  a  pure,  lively,  and  active  individuality,  to 
combine  the  two,  the  higher,  greater,  and  more  worthy 
of  respect  it  will  become.  But  if  such  an  artist  ceases 
to  hold  fast  by  and  reflect  upon  nature,  he  will  soon 
lose  sight  of  the  true  principles  of  art,  and  his  manner 
will  become  more  and  more  empty  and  insignificant  in 

63 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

proportion   as   he  leaves   behind   simple  imitation  and 
stjle. 

We  need  not  here  repeat  that  we  use  the  word  Man- 
ner in  a  high  and  honorable  sense,  so  that  artists  who, 
according  to  our  definition,  would  be  termed  Mannerists 
have  nothing  to  complain  of.  It  is  only  incumbent  upon 
us  to  preserve  the  word  Style  in  the  highest  honor,  in 
order  to  have  an  expression  for  the  highest  point  art 
has  attained  or  ever  can  attain.  To  be  aware  of  this 
point  is  in  itself  a  great  good  fortune,  and  to  enter 
upon  its  consideration  in  company  with  sensible  people, 
a  noble  pleasure,  for  which  we  hope  to  have  many  op- 
portunities in  the  sequel. 


64 


ANCIENT  AND  MODERN 

(1818) 

I  HAVE  been  obliged,  in  what  precedes,  to  say  so  much 
in  favor  of  antiquity,  and  particularly  of  the  plastic 
artists  of  those  times,  that  I  may  possibly  be  misunder- 
stood, which  so  often  happens  where  the  reader,  instead 
of  preserving  a  just  balance,  throws  himself  at  once 
into  the  opposite  scale.  I  therefore  seize  the  present 
opportunity  to  explain  my  meaning,  using  plastic  art 
as  a  symbol  of  the  never-ceasing  life  of  human  actions 
and  affairs. 

A  young  friend,  Karl  Ernst  Schubarth,  in  his 
pamphlet,  A  Critique  on  Goethe,  which  in  every  respect 
calls  for  my  esteem  and  thanks,  says :  "  I  do  not  agree 
with  those  worshipers  of  the  ancients,  among  whom  is 
Goethe  himself,  who  maintain  that  in  high  and  com- 
plete development  of  humanity  nothing  has  ever  been 
arrived  at  to  compare  with  the  Greeks."  Fortunately, 
Schubarth's  own  words  give  us  an  opportunity  to  ad- 
just this  difference,  where  he  says,  "  As  to  our  Goethe, 
let  me  say  that  I  prefer  Shakespeare  to  him,  for  this 
reason, — that  in  Shakespeare  I  seem  to  find  a  strong, 
unconscious  man,  who  is  able,  with  perfect  certainty, 
and  without  reasoning,  reflecting,  subtilizing  and  clas- 
sifying, to  seize  with  never-failing  hand  the  true  and 
false  in  man,  and  express  it  quite  naturally;  whilst 
in  Goethe,  though  I  recognize  the  same  ultimate  aim,  I 
am  always  fighting  with  obstacles,  and  must  be  always 

65 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

taking  heed  lest  I  accept  for  plain  truth  what  is  only 
an  exhibition  of  plain  error." 

Here  our  friend  hits  the  nail  on  the  head;  for  in 
that  very  point  where  he  places  me  below  Shakespeare 
do  we  stand  below  the  ancients.  And  what  is  it  we  ad- 
vance concerning  the  ancients?  Any  talent,  the  devel- 
opment of  which  is  not  favored  by  time  and  circum- 
stances, and  must  on  that  account  work  its  way 
through  a  thousand  obstacles,  and  get  rid  of  a  thou- 
sand errors,  must  always  be  at  a  disadvantage,  when 
compared  with  a  contemporary  one  that  has  the  op- 
portunity to  cultivate  itself  with  facility  and  act  to  the 
extent  of  its  capacity  without  opposition. 

It  often  happens  that  people  who  are  no  longer  young 
are  able,  out  of  the  fullness  of  their  experience,  to  fur- 
nish an  illustration  that  will  explain  or  strengthen  an 
assertion ;  and  this  is  my  excuse  for  relating  the  follow- 
ing anecdote.  A  practised  diplomatist  who  had  desired 
my  acquaintance,  after  the  first  interview,  when  he  had 
had  but  little  opportunity  of  seeing  or  conversing  with 
me,  remarked  to  his  friends :  "  Voila  un  homme  qui  a 
eu  de  grands  chagrins !  "  These  words  set  me  to  think- 
ing. The  skilful  physiognomist's  eye  did  not  deceive 
him,  only  he  laid  to  the  effect  of  suffering  the  phe- 
nomenon that  should  also  have  been  ascribed  to  oppo- 
sition. An  observant,  straightforward  German  might 
have  said,  "  Here  is  a  man  who  has  had  a  very  hard  time 
of  it."  Since,  then,  the  signs  of  past  endurance  and 
of  persevering  activity  do  not  disappear  from  the 
face,  it  is  no  wonder  if  all  that  remains  of  us  and  our 
strivings  should  bear  the  same  impress,  and  indicate, 
to  the  attentive  observer,  a  mode  of  being  whose  aim 
has  been  to  preserve  its  balance   alike  under   circum- 

m 


Ancient  and  Modern 

stances  of  happiest  development  or  narrowest  limita- 
tion, and  to  maintain  the  stubbornness,  if  it  could  not 
always  tjie  highest  dignity,  of  human  existence. 

But  letting  pass  old  and  new,  past  and  present,  we 
may  in  general  assert  that  every  artistic  production 
places  us  in  the  same  state  of  mind  the  author  was 
in.  If  that  was  clear  and  bright,  we  shall  feel  free; 
if  that  was  narrow,  timid,  or  anxious,  we  shall  feel 
limited  in  the  same  proportion. 

Upon  reflection,  we  should  add  that  this  refers  only 
to  treatment.  Material  and  import  do  not  enter  into 
consideration.  If  we  bear  in  mind  this  principle,  and 
look  around  in  the  world  of  art,  we  maintain  that 
every  work  will  afford  us  pleasure  which  the  artist 
himself  produced  with  ease  and  facility.  What  amateur 
does  not  rejoice  in  the  possession  of  a  successful  draw- 
ing or  etching  of  our  Chodowiecki?  We  see  in  them 
such  an  immediate  apprehension  of  nature,  as  we  know 
it,  that  they  leave  nothing  to  wish  for.  But  he  would 
not  be  able  to  go  beyond  his  mark  and  line,  without 
losing  all  the  advantage  he  derives  from  his  peculiar 
qualifications. 

We  shall  even  go  farther,  and  confess  that  we  have 
derived  great  pleasure  from  Mannerists,  when  the  man- 
ner has  not  been  carried  too  far,  and  that  we  are 
pleased  with  the  possession  of  their  works.  The  artists 
who  have  received  this  name  have  been  gifted  with  un- 
common talent,  but  became  early  aware  that,  in  the 
state  of  the  times  as  well  as  of  the  schools  into  which 
they  were  cast  by  fate,  there  was  no  room  for  minute 
labor,  but  that  they  must  choose  their  part,  and  per- 
fect themselves  speedily.  They  therefore  made  them- 
selves a  language,  into  which  they  could,  without  far- 

67 


Goethe's  luiterary  Essays 

ther  trouble,  translate  with  ease  and  dexterity  all 
visible  subjects,  and  exhibit  to  us  representations  of 
all  sorts  of  scenes  with  greater  or  less  success.  Thus 
whole  nations  have  been  entertained  and  hoodwinked 
for  long  periods  of  time,  until  at  last  one  or  another 
artist  has  found  the  way  back  to  nature  and  a  higher 
feeling  of  art. 

We  may  perceive,  by  the  Herculanean  antiquities, 
how  the  ancients  also  fell  into  this  kind  of  manner ;  only 
their  models  were  too  great,  too  present,  fresh,  and  well 
preserved,  for  their  second  and  third  rate  artists  to  be 
able  to  lose  themselves  entirely  in  insignificance. 

Let  us  now  assume  a  higher  and  more  agreeable  point 
of  view,  and  consider  the  talent  with  which  Raphael 
was  so  singularly  gifted.  Born  with  the  happiest  nat- 
ural gifts,  at  a  time  when  art  combined  the  most  con- 
scientious labor,  attention,  industrj^,  and  truth,  the 
young  man  was  already  led  by  excellent  masters  to  the 
threshold,  and  had  only  to  raise  his  foot  to  enter  the 
temple.  Disciplined  by  Perugino  in  the  most  careful 
elaboration,  his  genius  was  developed  by  Leonardo  da 
Vinci  and  Michelangelo.  Neither  of  these  artists,  in 
spite  of  their  long  life  and  the  cultivation  of  their 
powers,  seems  ever  to  have  reached  the  true  enjoyment 
of  artistic  production.  The  former,  if  we  look  closely, 
wearied  himself  with  thought,  and  dissipated  his  powers 
in  mechanical  inquiries;  and  we  have  to  blame  the 
latter  for  spending  his  fairest  years  among  stone  quar- 
ries, getting  out  marble  blocks  and  slabs,  so  that,  in- 
stead of  carrying  out  his  intention  of  carving  all  the 
heroes  of  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  he  has  left  only 
his  Moses  as  an  example  of  what  he  could  and  should 
have  done.  Raphael,  however,  during  his  whole  life, 
68 


Ancient  and  Modern 

ever  increased  in  the  even  facility  of  his  work.  We 
see  in  him  the  development  of  the  intellectual  and 
active  powers,  which  preserve  such  remarkable  bal- 
ance that  it  may  be  affirmed  that  no  modern  artist 
has  possessed  such  purity  and  completeness  of  thought 
and  such  clearness  of  expression.  In  him  we  have 
another  instance  of  a  talent  that  pours  out  to  us  the 
freshest  water  from  the  purest  source.  He  never  affects 
a  Greek  manner,  but  feels,  thinks,  works  like  a  Greek. 
We  see  the  fairest  talent  developed  in  the  most  favor- 
able hours.  The  same  thing  occurred,  under  like  con- 
ditions and  circumstances,  in  the  time  of  Pericles. 

It  may  therefore  always  be  maintained  that  native 
talent  is  indeed  indispensable  to  production,  but  equally 
indispensable  is  a  commensurate  development  in  the 
provinces  of  nature  and  art.  Art  cannot  dispense  with 
its  prerogatives,  and  cannot  achieve  perfection  without 
favorable  outward  circumstances. 

Consider  the  school  of  the  Caracci.  Here  was  a 
ground-work  of  talent,  earnestness,  industry,  and  con- 
sistent development ;  here  was  an  element  for  the 
natural  and  artistic  development  of  admirable  powers. 
We  see  a  whole  dozen  of  excellent  artists  produced  by 
it,  each  practising  and  cultivating  his  peculiar  talent 
according  to  the  same  general  idea,  so  that  it  hardly 
seems  possible  that  after  times  should  produce  anything 
similar. 

Let  us  consider  the  immense  stride  made  by  the 
highly  gifted  Rubens  into  the  world  of  art!  He  too 
was  no  son  of  earth ;  look  at  the  rich  inheritance  he  was 
heir  to,  from  the  old  masters  of  the  fourteenth  and  fif- 
teenth centuries,  through  all  the  admirable  artists  of 
the  sixteenth,  at  the  close  of  which  he  was  born. 

69 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Again,  think  of  the  crowd  of  Dutch  painters  of  the 
seventeenth  century,  whose  great  abilities  found  de- 
velopment now  at  home,  now  south,  now  north,  until 
we  can  no  longer  deny  the  incredible  sagacity  with 
which  their  eye  pierced  into  nature,  and  the  facility 
with  which  they  have  succeeded  in  expressing  her  legiti- 
mate charm,  so  as  to  enchant  us  everywhere.  Nay,  in 
proportion  as  we  possess  their  productions,  we  are 
willing  to  limit  ourselves  for  long  stretches  of  time  to 
their  study  and  admiration,  and  are  far  from  blaming 
those  amateurs  who  are  contented  with  the  possession 
and  enjoyment  of  this  class  of  pictures  exclusively. 

In  the  same  way,  we  could  bring  a  hundred  exam- 
ples in  support  of  our  assertion.  To  see  distinctly, 
to  apprehend  clearly,  to  impart  with  facility, — these 
are  the  qualities  that  enchant  us ;  and  when  we  main- 
tain that  all  these  are  to  be  found  in  the  genuine 
Greek  works,  united  with  the  noblest  subjects,  the  most 
unerring  and  perfect  execution,  it  will  be  seen  why  it 
is  we  always  begin  and  end  with  them.  Let  each  one 
be  a  Greek  in  his  own  way,  but  let  him  be  a  Greek! 

The  same  is  true  of  literary  merit.  What  is  compre- 
hensible is  always  the  first  to  attract  us  and  give  us 
complete  satisfaction.  If  we  even  take  the  works  of 
one  and  the  same  poet,  we  shall  find  some  that  seem  to 
indicate  a  degree  of  laborious  effort,  and  others  again 
affect  us  like  natural  products,  because  the  talent  was 
commensurate  with  the  form  and  import.  And  once 
more,  it  is  our  firm  belief  that  although  any  age  may 
give  birth  to  the  fairest  talent,  it  is  not  given  to  all  to 
be  able  to  develop  it  in  its  perfect  proportions. 


70 


NOTES  ON  DILETTANTISM 

(1799) 

Dilettantism  presupposes  Art,  as  botch-work  does 
handicraft. — Idea  of  Artist,  in  opposition  to  Dilettante. 
— Practice  of  Art  scientifically. — Adoption  of  an  Ob- 
jective Art. — Legitimate  progress  and  advancement. — 
Calling  and  profession. — Connection  with  a  world  of 
Art  and  Artists. — Schools. 

The  Dilettante  does  not  hold  the  same  relation  to  all 
the  arts. 

All  the  arts  have  an  objective  and  a  subjective  side, 
and  according  as  one  or  the  other  of  these  is  pre- 
dominant, the  Dilettante  has  value  or  not. 

Where  the  subjective  of  itself  is  of  great  importance, 
the  Dilettante  must  and  can  approximate  to  the  artist. 
For  instance,  oratory,  lyrical  poetry,  music,  dance. 

Where  the  reverse  is  the  case,  there  is  a  more  marked 
distinction  between  Artist  and  Dilettante,  as  in  archi- 
tecture, the  arts  of  design,  epic  and  dramatic  poetry. 

Art  itself  gives  laws,  and  commands  the  time. 

Dilettantism  follows  the  lead  of  the  time. 

When  masters  in  art  follow  a  false  taste,  the  Dilet- 
tante expects  so  much  the  sooner  to  reach  the  level 
of  art. 

The  Dilettante,  receiving  his  first  impulse  to  self- 
production  from  the  effect  of  works  of  art  on  him,  con- 
founds these  effects  with  the  objective  causes  and  mo- 

71 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

tives,  and  would  now  make  the  state  of  feeling  he  has 
been  put  into  productive  and  practical;  as  if  out  of 
the  fragrance  of  flowers  one  should  try  to  reproduce 
flowers  themselves. 

The  speaking  to  the  feelings,  the  last  eff*ect  of  all 
poetical  organization,  but  which  presupposes  the  con- 
currences of  the  whole  of  art,  seems  to  the  Dilettante  to 
be  the  thing  itself,  and  out  of  it  he  endeavors  to  pro- 
duce. 

In  general,  the  Dilettante,  in  his  ignorance  of  him- 
self, puts  the  passive  in  the  place  of  the  active,  and 
because  he  receives  a  lively  impression  from  eff'ects, 
thinks  from  these  impressed  efi^ects  to  produce  other 
eff'ects. 

The  peculiar  want  of  the  Dilettante  is  Architectonic, 
in  the  highest  sense, — that  practical  power  which  cre- 
ates, forms,  constitutes.  Of  this  he  has  only  a  sort  of 
s/^  misgiving,  and  submits  himself  to  his  material,  instead 
of  commanding  it. 
V  It  will  be  found  that  the  Dilettante  runs  particularly 
to  neatness,  which  is  the  completion  of  the  thing  in 
hand,  wherefrom  a  sort  of  illusion  arises,  as  if  the  thing 
itself  were  worthy  of  existing.  The  same  holds  true  of 
accuracy  (accuratesse),  and  all  the  last  conditions  of 
Form,  which  can  just  as  well  accompany  the  formless. 

General  principles  on  which  Dilettantism  is  allow- 
able : — 

When  the  Dilettante  subjects  himself  to  the  severest 
rules  at  the  outset,  and  undertakes  to  complete  all  the 
successive  steps  with  the  greatest  strictness, — which 
he  can  the  better  aff*ord  to  do,  inasmuch  as  (1)  the 
goal  is  not  demanded  of  him;  and,  (2)  if  he  wishes  to 
72 


Notes  on  Dilettantism 

retreat,  he  has  prepared  the  surest  path  to  connoisseur- 
ship. 

In  opposition  to  the  general  maxim,  the  Dilettante 
will  thus  be  subject  to  more  severe  criticism  than  the 
Artist,  who,  resting  upon  a  secure  basis  of  art,  incurs 
less  danger  in  departing  from  rules,  and  may  even  by 
that  means  enlarge  the  province  of  art  itself.  The  true 
artist  rests  firmly  and  securely  upon  himself.  His  en- 
deavor, his  mark,  is  the  highest  aim  of  art.  In  his  own 
estimation  he  will  always  be  far  from  that  aim,  and 
necessarily,  therefore,  will  be  always  modest  in  regard 
to  art  or  the  idea  of  art,  and  will  maintain  that  he  has 
as  yet  accomplished  little,  no  matter  how  excellent  his 
work  may  be,  or  how  high  his  consciousness  of  supe- 
riority, in  reference  to  the  world,  may  reach.  Dilet- 
tanti, or  real  botchers,  seem,  on  the  other  hand,  not 
to  strive  towards  an  aim,  not  to  see  what  is  beyond, 
but  only  what  is  beside  them.  On  this  account  they  are  ^' 
always  comparing,  are  for  the  most  part  extravagant 
in  their  praise,  unskilful  where  they  blame,  have  an 
infinite  deference  for  their  like,  thus  giving  themselves 
an  air  of  friendliness  and  fairness,  which  is  in  fact  only 
to  exalt  themselves. 

Dilettantism  in  Lyrical  Foetry 

The  fact  that  the  German  language  was  in  the  be- 
ginning applied  to  poetry,  not  by  any  one  great  poetic 
genius,  but  through  merely  middling  heads,  must  inspire 
Dilettantism  with  confidence  to  essay  itself  in  it. 

,The  cultivation  of  French  literature  and  language 
has  made  even  Dilettanti  more  artistic. 

The  French  were  always  more  rigorous,  tended  to 

73 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

severer  correctness,  and  demanded  even  of  Dilettanti 
taste  and  spirit  within,  and  externally  a  faultless  dic- 
tion.— In  England,  Dilettantism  held  more  by  Latin 
and  Greek. — Sonnets  of  the  Italians. 

Impudence  of  the  latest  Dilettantism,  originated  and 
maintained  through  reminiscences  of  a  richly  cultivated 
poetic  dialect,  and  the  facility  of  a  good  mechanical 
exterior. 

Polite  literature  of  universities,  induced  by  a  mod- 
ern method  of  study. — Lady  poems. — Schongeisterei 
(bel  esprit). — ^Annual  Keepsakes, — Musenalmanache, — 
Journals. — Beginning  and  spread  of  translations. 

Immediate  transition  from  the  classes  and  the  uni- 
versity to  authorship. — Epoch  of  ballads,  and  songs  of 
the  people. — Gessner,  poetic  prose. — Imitation  of  the 
bards. — Burger's  influence  on  sing-song. — Rhymeless 
verses.  —  Klopstockean  odes.  —  Claudius.  —  Wieland's 
laxity. — In  earlier  times :  Latin  verses ;  pedantism ;  more 
handicraft ;  skill,  without  poetic  spirit. 

Dilettantism  in  Pragmatic  Poetry 

Reasons  why  the  Dilettante  hates  the  powerful,  the 
passionate,  the  characteristic,  and  only  represents  the 
middling,  the  moral. 
v^      The  Dilettante  never  paints  the  object,  but  only  the 
feeling  it  gives  rise  to  in  him. 

He  avoids  the  character  of  the  object. 

'AH  Dilettante  creations  in  this  style  of  poetry  will 
have  a  pathological  character,  and  express  only  the 
attractions  and  repulsions  felt  by  their  author. 

The  Dilettante  thinks  to  reach  poetry  by  means  of 
his  wits. 
74 


Notes  on  Dilettantism 

Dramatic  botchers  go  mad  when  they  desire  to  give 
effect  to  their  work. 


Dilettantism  in  Dramatic  Art 

French  comedy  is,  even  among  amateurs,  obligato, 
and  a  social  institution. 

Italian  amateur-comedy  is  founded  on  a  puppet,  or 
puppet-like,  representation. 

Germany,  in  former  times,  Jesuit-schools. 

In  later  times:  French  amateur-comedies,  for  aiding 
the  cultivation  of  the  language,  in  noble  houses. 

Mixing  up  of  ranks  in  German  amateur-comedy. 

Conditions,  under  which,  perhaps,  a  moderate  prac- 
tice in  theatrical  matters  may  be  harmless  and  allow- 
able, or  even  in  some  measure  advantageous : 

Permanence  of  the  same  company. 

To  avoid  passionate  pieces,  and  choose  such  as  are 
reflective  and  social. 

To  admit  no  children  or  very  young  persons. 

Greatest  possible  strictness  in  outward  forms. 

Advantages  of  Dilettantism  in  General 

It  prevents  an  entire  want  of  cultivation. 

Dilettantism  is  a  necessary  consequence  of  a  general 
extension  of  art,  and  may  even  be  a  cause  of  it. 

It  can,  under  certain  circumstances,  help  to  excite 
and  develop  a  true  artistic  talent. 

Elevates  handicraft  to  a  certain  resemblance  to  art. 

Has  a  civilizing  tendency. 

In  case  of  crude  ignorance,  it  stimulates  a  certain 
taste  for  art,  and  extends  it  to  where  the  artist  would 
not  be  able  to  reach. 

75 


GoetJie^s  Literary  Essays 

Gives  occupation  to  productive  power,  and  cultivates 
something  serious  in  man. 

Appearances  are  changed  into  ideas. 

Teaches  to  analyze  impressions. 

Aids  the  appropriation  and  reproduction  of  forms. 


In  Lyrical  Poetry 

Cultivation  of  language  in  general. 

More  manifold  interest  "  in  humanioribus,"  in  con- 
trast to  the  crudeness  of  the  ignorant,  or  the  pedantic 
narrowness  of  the  mere  man  of  business  or  pedant. 

Cultivation  of  the  feelings  and  of  the  verbal  expres- 
sion of  the  same. 

The  cultivated  man  ought  to  be  able  to  express  his 
feelings  with  poetic  beauty. 

Idealization  of  concepts  regarding  objects  of  com- 
mon life.  Cultivation  of  the  imagination,  especially  as 
an  integral  part  of  the  culture  of  the  intellect. 

Awaking  and  direction  of  the  productive  imagination 
to  the  highest  functions  of  the  mind  in  the  sciences  and 
practical  life. 

Cultivation  of  the  sense  of  the  rhythmical. 

There  being  no  objective  laws,  either  for  the  internal 
or  external  construction  of  a  poem,  the  amateur  ought 
to  hold  fast  to  acknowledged  models  much  more  strongly 
than  the  master  does,  and  rather  imitate  the  good  that 
exists  than*  strive  after  originality ;  and  in  the  external 
and  metrical  parts,  follow  strictly  the  well-known  gen- 
eral rules. 

And  as  the  Dilettante  can  only  form  himself  after 
models,  he  ought,  in  order  to  avoid  one-sldedness,  to 
acquire  the  most  universal  knowledge  of  all  models,  and 
76 


Notes  on  Dilettantism 

survey  the  field  of  poetic  literature  even  more  perfectly 
than  is  required  of  the  artist  himself. 

In  the  Dramatic  Art 

Opportunity  of  farther  cultivation  in  declamation. 
Attention  to  one's  own  representations. 
Participates  in  the  advantages  predicated  of  Dancing. 
Exercise  of  the  JMemory. 
Sensuous  attention  and  accuracy. 

Disadvantage  of  Dilettantism  in  General 

The  Dilettante  jumps  over  the  steps,  stops  at  cer- 
tain steps  which  he  regards  as  the  end,  and  from  which 
he  thinks  himself  justified  in  judging  of  the  whole;  this 
prevents  his  perfectibility. 

He  subjects  himself  to  the  necessity  of  working  by 
false  rules,  because  he  cannot  work  even  as  a  Dilettante 
without  some  rules,  and  he  does  not  understand  the 
true  objective  rules. 

He  departs  more  and  more  from  the  truth  of  ob- 
jects, and  loses  himself  in  subjective  errors. 

Dilettantism  deprives  art  of  its  element,  and  spoils 
art's  public  by  depriving  it  of  its  earnestness  and 
strictness. 

All  tendency  to  easy  contentment  destroys  art,  and 
Dilettantism  brings  in  indulgence  and  favor.  At  the 
expense  of  the  true  artists,  it  brings  into  notice  those 
that  stand  nearest  to  Dilettantism. 

With  Dilettantism  the  loss  is  always  greater  than  the 
gain. 

From  handicraft  the  way  is  open  to  rise  to  art,  but 
not  from  botch-work. 

77 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Dilettantism  favors  the  indiiferent,  partial,  and 
characterless. 

Injury  Dilettanti  do  to  art  by  bringing  artists  down 
to  their  level. 

Can  bear  no  good  artist  near  them. 

In  all  cases  where  the  art  itself  has  no  proper  regu- 
lative power,  as  in  Poetry,  the  art  of  Gardening,  act- 
ing, the  injury  Dilettantism  does  is  greater,  and  its 
pretensions  more  arrogant.  The  worst  case  is  that  of 
histrionic  art. 

In  Lyrical  Poetry 

Belletristic  shallowness  and  emptiness,  withdrawal 
from  solid  studies,  or  superficial  treatment. 

A  greater  danger  exists  in  this  than  in  the  other 
arts  of  mistaking  a  merely  Dilettante  dexterity  for  a 
true  genius  for  art,  and  in  this  case,  the  subject  is 
worse  off  than  in  any  other  Dilettantism,  because  its 
existence  becomes  an  entire  nullity;  for  the  poet  is 
nothing  at  all  except  through  earnestness  and  con- 
formity to  art. 

Dilettantism  in  general,  but  especially  in  poetry, 
weakens  the  feeling  and  perception  for  the  good  that 
lies  beyond  it,  and  whilst  it  is  indulgent  to  a  restless 
desire  to  produce,  which  leads  it  to  nothing  perfect, 
robs  itself  of  all  the  culture  it  might  derive  through 
the  perception  of  foreign  excellences. 

Poetical  Dilettantism  may  be  of  two  sorts.  Either 
it  neglects  the  (indispensable)  mechanical,  and  thinks 
enough  done  if  it  shows  mind  and  feeling;  or  it  seeks 
poetry  only  in  the  mechanical,  acquiring  a  technical  dex- 
terity therein,  but  without  spirit  or  significance.  Both 
78 


Notes  on  Dilettantism 

are  injurious,  but  the  former  rather  injures  the  art. 
and  the  latter  the  subject. 

All  Dilettanti  are  Plagiarists.  They  enervate  and 
pull  to*  pieces  all  that  is  original  in  manner  or  matter, 
and  at  the  same  time  imitate,  copy,  and  piece  out  their 
own  emptiness  with  it.  Thus  the  language  gets  filled 
with  phrases  and  formulae  stolen  from  all  sides,  which 
have  no  longer  any  meaning,  and  you  may  read  whole 
books  written  in  a  fine  st?/le  and  containing  nothing. 
In  a  word,  all  that  is  really  beautiful  and  good  in  true 
poetry  is  profaned,  rendered  common,  and  degraded. 

In  Pragmatical  Poetry 

All  the  disadvantages  of  Dilettantism  in  Lyrical 
Poetry  apply  here  in  a  far  higher  degree.  Not  the  art 
alone,  but  the  subject  also,  suffers  more. 

Mixing  up  of  different  kinds. 

In  Histrionic  Art 

Caricature  of  one's  own  faulty  individuality. 

Incapacitates  the  mind  for  all  occupation,  through 
the  illusion  of  a  fantastic  mode  of  viewing  objects. 

Expense  of  interest  and  passion,  without  fruit. 

Eternal  circle  of  monotonous,  ever  repeated,  ineffec- 
tual activity. 

(There  is  nothing  so  attractive  to  Dilettanti  as 
rehearsals.    Professional  actors  hate  them.) 

Special  forbearance  and  pampering  of  theatrical 
Dilettanti  with  applause. 

Eternal  stimulation  towards  a  passionate  condition 
and  behavior,  without  balance. 

79 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Feeding  all  hateful  passions,  with  the  worst  results 
for  civic  and  domestic  existence. 

Blunting  the  feeling  for  poetry. 

Use  of  exalted  language  for  commonplace  sentiments. 

A  rag- fair  of  thoughts,  commonplaces,  and  descrip- 
tions in  the  memory. 

Pervading  affectation  and  mannerism,  reaching  also 
into  life. 

Most  injurious  indulgence  towards  the  indifferent 
and  faulty,  in  a  public  and  quite  personal  case. 

The  general  tolerance  for  the  home-made  becomes  in 
this  case  more  pronounced. 

Most  pernicious  use  of  amateur  comedies  for  the  edu- 
cation of  children,  where  it  turns  into  caricature.  In 
the  same  manner,  the  most  dangerous  of  all  amusements 
for  universities,  &c. 

Destruction  of  the  ideality  of  art,  because  the  Dilet- 
tante, not  being  able  to  raise  himself  through  the  ap- 
propriation of  artistic  ideas  and  traditions,  must  do 
all  through  a  pathological  reality. 


80 


THE  THEORY  OF  LITERATURE 


Xlx^^^^' 


THE  PRODUCTION  OF  A  NATIONAL  CLASSIC  ^ 

(Literarischer  Sansctdottismiis) 
(1795) 

Those  who  consider  it  an  absolute  duty  to  connect 
definite  concepts  with  the  words  which  they  employ  in 
speaking  and  writing  will  very  rarely  use  the  expres- 
sions, "  classical  author  "  and  "  classical  work." 

What  are  the  conditions  that  produce  a  classical  na- 
tional author?  He  must,  in  the  first  place,  be  born  in 
a  great  commonwealth,  which  after  a  series  of  great 
and  historic  events  has  become  a  happy  and  unified 
nation.  He  must  find  in  his  countrymen  loftiness  of 
disposition,  depth  of  feeling,  and  vigor  and  consistency 
of  action.  He  must  be  thoroughly  pervaded  with  the 
national  spirit,  and  through  his  innate  genius  feel 
capable  of  sympathizing  with  the  past  as  well  as  the 
present.  He  must  find  his  nation  in  a  high  state  of  civi- 
lization, so  that  he  will  have  no  difficulty  in  obtaining 
for  himself  a  high  degree  of  culture.  He  must  find 
much  material  already  collected  and  ready  for  his  use, 
and  a  large  number  of  more  or  less  perfect  attempts 
made  by  his  predecessors.  And  finally,  there  must  be 
such  a  happy  conjuncture  of  outer  and  inner  circum- 
stances that  he  will  not  have  to  pay  dearly  for  his  mis- 
takes, but  that  in  the  prime  of  his  life  he  may  be  able 

1  Reply  to  a  critic  who  complained  of  "  the  poverty  of  the 
Germans  in  great  classical  prose  works,"  and  indiscriminately 
attacked  all  the  writers  of  the  time. 

83 


Goethe^s  Literary  Essays 

to  see  the  possibilities  of  a  great  theme  and  to  develop 
it  according  to  some  uniform  plan  into  a  well-arranged 
and  well-constructed  literary  work. 

If  any  one,  who  is  endowed  with  clearness  of  vision 
and  fairness  of  mind,  contrasts  these  conditions  under 
which  alone  a  classic  writer,  especially  a  classic  prose- 
writer,  is  possible,  with  the  conditions  under  which  the 
best  Germans  of  this  century  have  worked,  he  will  re- 
spect and  admire  what  they  have  succeeded  in  doing, 
and  notice  with  tactful  regret  in  what  they  have  failed. 

An  important  piece  of  writing,  like  an  important 
speech,  can  only  be  the  outgrowth  of  actual  life.  The 
author  no  more  than  the  man  of  action  can  fashion  the 
conditions  under  which  he  is  born  and  under  which  he 
acts.  Each  one,  even  the  greatest  genius,  suffers  in 
some  respects  from  the  social  and  political  conditions 
of  his  age,  just  as  in  other  respects  he  benefits  by  them. 
And  only  from  a  real  nation  can  a  national  writer  of 
the  highest  order  be  expected.  It  is  unfair,  however, 
to  reproach  the  German  nation  because,  though  closely 
held  together  by  its  geographical  position,  it  is  divided 
politically.  We  do  not  wish  for  Germany  those  po- 
litical revolutions  which  might  prepare  the  way  for 
classical  works. 

And  so  any  criticism  which  approaches  the  question 
from  such  a  false  point  of  view  is  most  unfair.  The 
critic  must  look  at  our  conditions,  as  they  were  and  as 
they  now  are ;  he  must  consider  the  individual  circum- 
stances under  which  German  writers  obtained  their 
training,  and  he  will  easily  find  the  correct  point  of 
view.  There  is  nowhere  in  Germany  a  common  centre 
of  social  culture,  where  men  of  letters  might  gather 
together  and  perfect  themselves,  each  one  in  his  par- 
84> 


The  Productmi  of  a  National  Classic 

ticular  field,  in  conformity  with  the  same  standard. 
Born  in  the  most  widely  scattered  portions  of  the  land, 
educated  in  the  most  diverse  ways,  left  almost  entirely 
to  themselves  or  to  impressions  derived  from  the  most 
varied  environments,  carried  away  by  a  special  liking 
for  this  or  that  example  of  German  or  foreign  litera- 
ture, the  German  men  of  letters  are  forced,  without  any 
guidance,  to  indulge  in  all  sorts  of  experiments,  even 
in  botch-work,  in  order  to  try  their  powers.  Only 
gradually  and  after  considerable  reflection  do  they 
realize  what  they  ought  to  do.  Practice  alone  teaches 
them  what  they  can  do.  Again  and  again  the  bad  taste 
of  a  large  public,  which  devours  the  bad  and  the  good 
with  equal  pleasure,  leads  them  into  doubt.  Then 
again  an  acquaintance  with  the  educated  though  widely 
scattered  population  of  the  great  empire  encourages 
them,  and  the  common  labors  and  endeavors  of  their 
contemporaries  fortify  them.  Such  are  the  conditions 
,under  which  German  writers  finally  reach  man's  estate. 
Then  concern  for  their  own  support,  concern  for  a 
family,  force  them  to  look  about  in  the  world  at  large, 
and  often  with  the  most  depressing  feeling,  to  do  work 
for  which  they  have  no  respect  themselves,  in  order  to 
earn  a  livelihood,  so  that  they  can  devote  themselves 
to  that  kind  of  work  with  which  alone  their  cultured 
minds  would  occupy  themselves.  What  German  author 
of  note  will  not  recognize  himself  in  this  picture,  and 
will  not  confess  with  modest  regret  that  he  often  enough 
sighed  for  an  opportunity  to  subordinate  sooner  the 
peculiarities  of  his  original  genius  to  a  general  national 
culture,  which  unfortunately  did  not  exist? 

For  foreign  customs  and  literatures,  irrespective  of 
the  many  advantages  they  have  contributed  to  the  ad- 

85 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

vancement  of  the  higher  classes,  have  prevented  the 
Germans  from  developing  sooner  as  Germans. 

And  now  let  us  look  at  the  work  of  German  poets  and 
prose-writers  of  recognized  ability.  With  what  care 
and  what  devotion  did  they  not  follow  in  their  labors 
an  enlightened  conviction !  It  is,  for  example,  not  say- 
ing too  much,  when  we  maintain  that  a  capable  and 
industrious  literary  critic,  through  a  comparison  of 
all  the  editions  of  our  Wieland, — a  man  of  whom  we 
may  proudly  boast  in  spite  of  the  snarling  of  all  our 
literary  parasites, — could  develop  the  whole  theory  of 
good  taste  simply  from  the  successive  corrections  of 
this  author,  who  has  so  indefatigably  worked  toward 
his  own  improvement.  We  hope  that  every  librarian 
will  take  pains  to  have  such  a  collection  made,  while  it 
is  still  possible,  and  then  the  next  century  will  know 
how  to  make  grateful  use  of  it. 

In  the  future  we  may  perhaps  be  bold  enough  to  lay 
before  the  public  a  history  of  the  development  of  our 
foremost  writers,  as  it  is  shown  in  their  works.  We 
do  not  expect  any  confessions,  but  if  they  would  only 
themselves  impart  to  us,  as  far  as  they  see  fit,  those 
facts  which  contributed  most  to  their  development,  and 
those  which  stood  most  in  the  way  of  it,  the  influence 
of  the  good  they  have  done  would  become  still  more 
far-reaching. 

For  if  we  consider  what  superficial  critics  take  least 
notice  of, — the  good  fortune  which  young  men  of  talent 
enjoy  nowadays  in  being  able  to  develop  earlier,  and  to 
attain  sooner  a  pure  style  appropriate  to  the  subject 
at  hand, — to  whom  do  they  owe  it  but  to  their  predeces- 
sors in  the  last  half  of  this  century,  each  of  whom  in 
his  own  way  has  trained  himself  with  unceasing  en- 
86 


The  Production  of  a  National  Classic 

deavor  amidst  all  sorts  of  hindrances?  Through  this 
circumstance  a  sort  of  invisible  school  has  sprung  up, 
and  the.  young  man  who  now  enters  it  gets  into  a  much 
larger  and  brighter  circle  than  the  earlier  author,  who 
had  to  roam  through  it  first  himself  in  the  faint  light 
of  dawn,  in  order  to  help  widen  it  gradually  and  as  it 
were  only  by  chance.  The  pseudo-critic,  who  would 
light  the  way  for  us  with  his  little  lamp,  comes  much 
too  late;  the  day  has  dawned,  and  we  shall  not  close 
our  shutters  again. 

Men  do  not  give  vent  to  their  ill  humor  in  good  so- 
ciety ;  and  he  must  be  in  a  very  bad  humor,  who  at  this 
present  moment,  when  almost  everybody  writes  well,- 
denies  that  Germany  has  writers  of  the  first  order. 
One  does  not  need  to  go  far  to  find  an  agreeable  novel, 
a  clever  sketch,  a  clearly  written  essay  on  this  or  that 
subject.  What  proof  do  not  our  critical  papers, 
journals,  and  compends  furnish  of  a  uniformly  good 
style?  The  Germans  show  a  more  and  more  thorough 
mastery  of  facts,  and  the  arrangement  of  the  material 
steadily  gains  in  clearness.  A  dignified  philosophy,  in 
spite  of  all  the  opposition  of  wavering  opinions,  makes 
them  more  and  more  acquainted  with  their  intellectual 
powers,  and  facilitates  the  use  of  them.  The  numerous 
examples  of  style,  the  preliminary  labors  and  endeavors 
of  so  many  men,  enable  a  young  man  now  sooner  to 
present  with  clearness  and  grace  and  in  an  appropriate 
manner  what  he  has  received  from  without  and  devel- 
oped within  himself.  Thus  a  healthy  and  fair-minded 
German  sees  the  writers  of  his  nation  at  a  fair  stage 
of  development,  and  is  convinced  that  the  public,  too, 
will  not  let  itself  be  misled  by  an  ill-humored  criticaster. 
Such  a  one  ought  to  be  barred  from  society,  from 

87 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

which  every  one  should  be  excluded  whose  destructive 
work  might  only  make  productive  writers  disheart- 
ened, the  sympathetic  public  listless,  and  the  onlookers 
distrustful  and  indifferent. 


88 


GOETHE'S  THEORY  OF  A  WORLD 
LITERATURE 

I  (1827) 

Everywhere  we  hear  and  read  of  the  progress  of  the 
human  race,  of  the  broader  view  of  international  and 
human  relations.  Since  it  is  not  my  office  here  to 
define  or  qualify  these  broad  generalities,  I  shall 
merely  acquaint  my  friends  with  my  conviction  that 
there  is  being  formed  a  universal  world-literature,  in 
which  an  honorable  role  is  reserved  for  us  Germans. 
All  the  nations  review  our  work;  they  praise,  censure, 
accept,  and  reject,  imitate  and  misrepresent  us,  open 
or  close  their  hearts  to  us.  All  this  we  must  accept 
with  equanimity,  since  this  attitude,  taken  as  a  whole, 
is  of  great  value  to  us. 

We  experience  the  same  thing  from  our  own  country- 
men, and  why  should  the  nations  agree  among  them- 
selves if  fellow-citizens  do  not  understand  how  to  unite 
and  cooperate  with  each  other?  In  a  literary  sense  we 
have  a  good  start  of  the  other  nations ;  they  will  al- 
ways be  learning  to  prize  us  more,  even  if  they  only 
show  it  by  borrowing  from  us  without  thanks,  and 
making  use  of  us  without  giving  recognition  of  the  fact. 

As  the  military  and  physical  strength  of  a  nation 
develops  from  its  internal  unity  and  cohesion,  so  must 
its  aesthetic  and  ethical  strength  grow  gradually  from 
a  similar  unanimity  of  feeling  and  ideas.  This,  how- 
ever, can  only  be  accomplished  with  time.     I  look  back 

89 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

as  a  cooperator  in  this  work  over  many  years  and 
reflect  how  a  German  literature  has  been  brought  to- 
gether out  of  heterogeneous,  if  not  conflicting,  elements, 
— a  literature  which  for  that  reason  is  only  peculiarly 
one  in  the  sense  that  it  is  composed  in  one  language, — 
which,  however,  out  of  a  variety  of  wholly  different 
talents  and  abilities,  minds  and  actions,  criticisms  and 
undertakings,  gradually  draws  out  to  the  light  of  day 
the  true  inner  soul  of  a  people. 

II  (1827) 

My  sanguine  suggestion  that  our  present  active  epoch 
with  its  increasing  communication  between  the  na- 
tions might  soon  hope  for  a  world-literature  has  been 
taken  up  by  chance  by  our  neighbors  of  the  west, 
who  indeed  can  accomplish  great  things  in  this  same 
direction.  They  express  themselves  on  the  subject  in 
the  following  manner: 

Le  Globe,  Tome  V.,  No.  91. 

"  Every  nation  indeed,  when  its  turn  comes,  feels 
that  tension  which,  like  the  attractive  power  of  physical 
bodies,  draws  one  towards  the  other,  and  eventually 
will  unite  in  one  universal  sympathy  all  the  races  of 
which  humanity  consists.  The  endeavor  of  scholars  to 
understand  one  another  and  compare  one  another's 
work  is  by  no  means  new ;  the  Latin  language  in  former 
times  has  provided  an  admirable  vehicle  for  this  pur- 
pose. But  however  they  labored  and  strove,  the  bar- 
riers by  which  peoples  were  separated  began  to  divide 
them  also,  and  hurt  their  'intellectual  intercourse.  The 
instrument  of  which  they  made  use  could  only  satisfy  a 
90 


Goethe's  Theory  of  a  World  Literature 

certain  range  and  course  of  ideas,  so  that  they  touched 
each  other  only  through  the  intellect,  instead  of  di- 
rectly -  through  the  feelings  and  through  poetry. 
Travel,  the  study  of  languages,  periodical  literature, 
have  taken  the  place  of  that  universal  language,  and 
establish  many  intimate  and  harmonious  relations 
which  it  could  never  cultivate.  Even  the  nations  that 
devote  themselves  chiefly  to  trade  and  industry  are 
most  concerned  with  this  exchange  of  ideas.  Eng- 
land, whose  home  activity  is  so  tremendous,  whose  life 
is  so  busy,  that  it  seems  as  if  it  would  be  able  to  study 
nothing  but  itself,  at  the  present  time  is  showing  a 
symptom  of  this  need  and  desire  to  broaden  its  con- 
nection with  the  outside  world  and  widen  its  horizon. 
Its  Reviews,  with  which  we  are  already  familiar,  are 
not  enough  for  them;  two  new  periodicals,  devoted 
especially  to  foreign  literature,  and  cooperating  to- 
gether towards  that  end,  are  to  appear  regularly." 

Of  the  first  of  these  English  journals.  The  Foreign 
Quarterly  Review,  there  are  already  two  volumes  in 
our  hands ;  the  third  we  expect  directly,  and  we  shall 
in  the  course  of  these  pages  often  refer  to  the  views  of 
important  men  who  are  giving  proof,  with  so  much 
insight  and  industry,  of  their  interest  in  foreign  litera- 
ture. 

But  first  of  all  we  must  confess  that  it  made  us  smile 
to  see,  at  the  end  of  the  old  year,  more  than  thirty 
literary  almanacs  (T aschenbilclier) ,  already  noticed 
in  an  English  journal, — not  indeed  reviewed,  but  at 
least  referred  to  with  some  characteristic  comments. 
It  is  pleasant  that  our  productions  of  this  sort  meet 
with  approval  and  find  a  market  over  there,  since  we 

91 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

are  also  obliged  to  buy  their  similar  works  for  good 
money.  Little  by  little  we  shall  discover,  I  suppose, 
whether  the  balance  of  this  trade  turns  out  to  our  ad- 
vantage. 

But  these  trivial  considerations  must  give  place  to 
more  serious  ones.  Left  to  itself  every  literature  will 
exhaust  its  vitality,  if  it  is  not  refreshed  by  the  interest 
and  contributions  of  a  foreign  one.  What  naturalist 
does  not  take  pleasure  in  the  wonderful  things  that  he 
sees  produced  by  reflection  in  a  mirror.?  Now  what  a 
mirror  in  the  field  of  ideas  and  morals  means,  every 
one  has  experienced  in  himself,  and  once  his  attention 
is  aroused,  he  will  understand  how  much  of  his  educa- 
tion he  owes  to  it. 

Ill  (1828) 

The  Edinburgh  Review,  as  well  as  the  current  Foreign 
and  Foreign  Quarterly  Reviews,  we  can  only  mention 
briefly  here. 

These  journals,  as  they  win  an  ever  wider  public,  will 
contribute  in  the  most  effective  way  towards  that  uni- 
versal world-literature  for  which  we  are  hoping.  Only, 
we  repeat,  the  idea  is  not  that  the  nations  shall  think 
alike,  but  that  they  shall  learn  how  to  understand 
each  other,  and,  if  they  do  not  care  to  love  one 
another,  at  least  that  they  will  learn  to  tolerate 
one  another.  Several  societies  now  exist  for  the  pur- 
pose of  making  the  British  Isles  acquainted  with  the 
continent,  and  are  working  effectively  and  with  a  prac- 
tical unanimity  of  opinion.  We  continentals  can 
learn  from  them  the  intellectual  background  of  the 
time  across  the  channel,  what  they  are  thinking  and 
what  their  judgments  about  things  are.  On  the  whole, 
92 


Goethe's  Theory  of  a  World  Literature 

we  acknowledge  gladly  that  they  go  about  the  work 
with  intense  seriousness,  with  industry  and  tolerance 
and  general  good-will.  The  result  for  us  will  be  that  we 
shall  be  compelled  to  think  again  of  our  own  recent  lit- 
erature, which  we  have  in  some  measure  already  put  to 
one  side,  and  to  consider  and  examine  it  anew.  Espe- 
cially worthy  of  notice  is  their  profitable  method  of 
starting  with  any  considerable  author,  and  going  over 
the  whole  field  in  which  he  worked. 

The  methods  and  manner  of  these  critics  deserve  our 
consideration  in  many  ways.  Although  varying  on 
many  points,  yet  there  is  an  agreement  in  criticism 
upon  the  main  issues,  which  seems  to  indicate,  if  not  a 
coterie,  yet  a  number  of  contemporary  critics  who 
have  come  to  a  similar  attitude  and  point  of  view. 
Worthy  of  our  admiration  are  the  honest  and  sincere 
application,  the  careful  labors,  which  they  devote  to 
surveying  our  complex  artistic  and  literary  world,  and 
to  looking  over  it  with  a  just  and  fair  attitude  and 
vision.  We  shall  hope  often  to  be  able  to  return  to 
them  and  their  work. 

IV  (1829) 

MORE  ABOUT  A  WOULD  LITERATURE 

The  Difficulties 

If  a  world-literature,  such  as  is  inevitable  with  the 
ever-increasing  facility  of  communication,  is  to  be 
formed  in  the  near  future,  we  must  expect  from  it  noth- 
ing more  and  nothing  diff'erent  from  what  it  can  and 
does  accomplish. 

The  wide  world,  extensive  as  it  is,  is  only  an  ex- 

93 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

panded  fatherland,  and  will,  if  looked  at  aright,  be  able 
to  give  us  no  more  than  what  our  home  soil  can  endow 
us  with  also.  What  pleases  the  crowd  spreads  itself 
over  a  limitless  field,  and,  as  we  already  see,  meets  ap- 
proval in  all  countries  and  regions.  The  serious  and 
intellectual  meets  with  less  success,  but  those  who  are 
devoted  to  higher  and  more  profitable  things  will  learn 
to  know  each  other  more  quickly  and  more  intimately. 
For  there  are  everywhere  in  the  world  such  men,  to  whom 
the  truth  and  the  progress  of  humanity  are  of  interest 
and  concern.  But  the  road  which  they  pursue,  the 
pace  which  they  keep,  is  not  to  everybody's  liking; 
the  particularly  aggressive  wish  to  advance  faster,  and 
so  turn  aside,  and  prevent  the  furthering  of  that  which 
they  could  promote.  The  serious-minded  must  there- 
fore form  a  quiet,  almost  secret,  company,  since  it 
would  be  futile  to  set  themselves  against  the  current  of 
the  day;  rather  must  they  manfully  strive  to  maintain 
their  position  till  the  flood  has  past.  Their  principal 
consolation,  and  indeed  encouragement,  such  men  must 
find  in  the  fact  that  truth  is  serviceable.  If  they  can 
discover  this  relation,  and  exhibit  its  meaning  and  influ- 
ence in  a  vital  way,  they  will  not  fail  to  produce  a 
powerful  eff'ect,  indeed  one  that  will  extend  over  a 
range  of  years. 

The  Encouragements 

Since  it  is  often  profitable  to  present  to  the  reader 
not  one's  bald  thought,  but  rather  to  awaken  and  stimu- 
late his  own  thinking,  it  may  be  useful  to  recall  the 
above  obser\^ation  which  I  had  occasion  to  write  down 
some  time  ago. 
94 


Goethe^s  Theory  of  a  World  Literature 

The  question  whether  this  or  that  occupation  to 
which  a  man  devotes  himself  is  useful  recurs  often 
enough  in  the  course  of  time,  and  must  come  before  us 
especially  at  this  time  when  it  is  no  longer  permitted 
to  any  one  to  live  quietly  according  to  his  tastes,  satis- 
fied, moderate,  and  without  demands  upon  him.  The 
external  world  is  so  importunate  and  exciting  that  each 
one  of  us  is  threatened  with  being  carried  away  in  the 
whirlpool.  In  order  to  satisfy  his  own  needs,  each  one 
sees  himself  compelled  to  attend  almost  instantaneously 
to  the  requirements  of  others ;  and  the  question  nat- 
urally arises  whether  he  has  any  skill  or  readiness  to 
satisfy  these  pressing  duties.  There  seems  to  be  nothing 
left  to  us  to  say  than  that  only  the  purest  and  strictest 
egoism  can  save  us;  but  this  must  be  a  self-conscious 
resolution,  thoroughly  felt  and  calmly  expressed. 

Let  each  one  ask  himself  for  what  he  is  best  fitted, 
and  let  him  cultivate  this  most  ardently  and  wisely  in 
himself  and  for  himself ;  let  him  consider  himself  suc- 
cessively as  apprentice,  as  journeyman,  as  older  jour- 
neyman, and  finally,  but  with  the  greatest  of  circum- 
spection, as  master. 

If  he  can,  with  discriminating  modesty,  increase  his 
idemands  on  the  external  world  only  with  the  growth 
of  his  own  capabilities,  thus  insinuating  himself  into 
the  world's  good  graces  by  being  useful,  then  he  will 
attain  his  purpose  step  by  step,  and  if  he  succeeds  in 
reaching  the  highest  level,  will  be  able  to  influence  men 
and  things  with  ease. 

Life,  if  he  studies  it  closely,  will  teach  him  the  oppor- 
tunities and  the  hindrances  which  present  or  intrude 
themselves  upon  him;  but  this  much  the  man  of  prac- 
tical wisdom  will  always  have  before  his  eyes : — To  tire 

95 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

oneself  out  for  the  sake  of  the  favor  of  to-day  brings  no 
profit  for  to-morrow  or  after. 


Oth^r  Considerations 

Every  nation  has  peculiarities  by  which  it  is  dis- 
tinguished from  the  others,  and  it  is  by  these  distin- 
guishing traits  that  nations  are  also  attracted  to  and 
repelled  from  one  another.  The  external  expressions 
of  these  inner  idiosyncrasies  appear  to  the  others  in 
most  cases  strikingly  disagreeable,  or,  if  endurable, 
merely  amusing.  This  is  why,  too,  we  always  respect 
a  nation  less  than  it  deserves.  The  inner  traits,  on  the 
other  hand,  are  not  known  or  recognized,  by  foreigners 
or  even  by  the  nation  itself ;  for  the  inner  nature  of  a 
whole  nation,  as  well  as  the  individual  man,  works  all 
unconsciously.  At  the  end  we  wonder,  we  are  astounded, 
at  what  appears. 

These  secrets  I  do  not  pretend  to  know,  much  less 
to  have  the  cleverness  to  express  them  if  I  did.  Only 
this  much  will  I  say, — that,  so  far  as  my  insight  goes, 
the  characteristic  intellectual  and  spiritual  activity 
of  the  French  is  now  at  its  height  again,  and  for  that 
reason  will  exercise  soon  again  a  great  influence  on  the 
civilized  world.  I  would  gladly  say  more,  but  it  leads 
too  far;  one  has  to  be  so  detailed  in  order  to  be  under- 
stood, and  to  make  acceptable  what  one  has  to  say. 

It  was  not  merely  permissible  but  highly  admirable 
that  a  society  of  Germans  was  formed  for  the  spe- 
cial purpose  of  studying  German  poetry;  since  these 
persons,  as  cultured  men  acquainted  with  the  other 
fields  of  German  literature  and  politics  both  generally 
96 


Goethe's  Theory  of  a  World  Literature 

and  in  detail,  were  well  qualified  to  select  and  judge 
works  of  belles-lettres  and  use  them  as  a  basis  for  in- 
tellectual, as  well  as  pleasurable  and  stimulating,  con- 
versation. 

Some  one  may  say  that  the  best  literature  of  a 
nation  cannot  be  discovered  or  recognized,  unless  one 
brings  home  to  one's  mind  the  whole  complex  of  its 
circumstances  and  social  conditions.  Something  of  all 
this  can  be  obtained  from  the  papers,  which  give  us 
enough  detailed  information  of  public  affairs.  But  this 
is  not  enough;  we  must  add  to  it  what  foreigners  in 
their  critical  journals  and  reviews  are  accustomed  to 
say  about  themselves  and  about  other  nations,  particu- 
larly the  Germans, — their  ideas  and  opinions,  their  inter- 
est in  and  reception  of  our  productions.  If  one  wishes, 
for  instance,  to  acquaint  oneself  with  modern  French 
literature,  one  should  study  the  lectures  which  have 
been  given  for  the  last  two  years  and  are  now  appear- 
ing in  print, — lectures  such  as  Guizot's  Cours  dliistoire 
moderne,  Villemain's  Cours  de  litterature  frangaise, 
and  Cousin's  Cours  de  lliistoire  de  la  pMlosopliie, 
The  significance  they  have  both  at  home  and  for  us 
comes  out  thus  in  the  clearest  fashion.  Still  more  ef- 
fective and  interesting  are  perhaps  the  frequent  num- 
bers and  volumes  of  Le  Globe,  La  Revue  frangaise, 
and  the  daily,  Le  Temps.  None  of  these  can  be  spared, 
if  we  are  to  keep  vividly  before  our  eyes  both  sides 
of  these  great  movements  in  France  and  all  the  sub- 
sidiary currents  that  spring  from  them. 

French  poetry,  like  French  literature,  is  not  distinct 
in  spirit  from  the  life  and  passions  of  the  nation  as 
a  whole.     In  recent  times  it  appears  naturally  always 

97 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

as  the  "  Opposition,"  and  summons  every  genius  to 
make  the  most  of  his  talent  in  resisting  the  "  powers 
that  be,"  which  since  they  are  endowed  with  force  do 
not  need  to  be  intellectual  or  spiritual. 

If  we  follow  this  verse,  which  reveals  so  much,  we 
see  deep  down  into  the  soul  of  the  nation,  and  from 
the  way  in  which  they  judge  us,  more  or  less  favorably, 
we  can  at  the  same  time  learn  to  judge  ourselves.  And 
it  can  do  no  harm  to  have  some  one  make  us  think  about 
ourselves. 

Whoever  follows  the  course  proposed  above  will  very 
quickly  become  completely  informed  of  all  public  af- 
fairs and  semi-public  affairs.  In  our  present  admirably 
managed  book-trade  it  is  possible  to  obtain  books  speed- 
ily, instead  of  waiting,  as  has  often  been  my  experi- 
ence, until  the  author  takes  occasion  to  send  his  work 
as-a  gift,  so  that  I  have  often  read  the  book  long  before 
I  received  it  from  him. 

From  all  this  it  is  evident  that  it  is  no  light  task  to 
keep  in  touch  with  all  the  literature  of  the  present  day. 
Of  the  English,  as  well  as  the  Italian,  I  shall  have  to 
speak  again  more  particularly,  for  there  is  much  more 
to  be  said. 

V 

(1830) 

There  has  been  talk  for  some  time  of  a  general  world- 
literature,  and  indeed  not  without  justice.  For  the 
nations,  after  they  had  been  shaken  into  confusion 
and  mutual  conflict  by  the  terrible  wars,  could  not 
return  to  their  settled  and  independent  life  again  with- 
out noticing  that  they  had  learned  many  foreign  ideas 
98 


Goethe's  Theory  of  a  World  Literature 

and  ways,  which  they  had  unconsciously  adopted,  and 
had  come  to  feel  here  and  there  previously  unrecognized 
spiritual  and  intellectual  needs.  Out  of  this  arose 
the  feeling  of  neighborly  relations,  and,  instead  of 
shutting  themselves  up  as  before,  they  gradually  came 
to  desire  the  adoption  of  some  sort  of  more  or  less 
free  spiritual  intercourse. 

This  movem.ent,  it  is  true,  has  lasted  only  a  short 
time,  but  still  long  enough  to  start  considerable  specu- 
lation, and  to  acquire  from  it,  as  one  must  always  from 
any  kind  of  foreign  trade,  both  profit  and  enjoyment. 


99 


ON  EPIC  AND  DRAMATIC  POETRY^ 

(1797) 

The  epic  and  the  dramatic  writer  are  both  subject 
to  the  universal  poetic  laws,  especially  the  law  of  unity 
and  the  law  of  progressive  development.  Furthermore 
they  both  deal  with  similar  subjects  and  both  can 
use  a  great  variety  of  motives.  The  essential  dif- 
ference consists  in  this,  that  an  epic  poet  narrates  an 
event  as  completely  past,  while  the  dramatist  presents 
it  as  completely  present.  If  one  wished  to  develop  in 
detail  from  the  nature  of  man  these  laws  which  both 
have  to  follow,  one  would  continually  have  to  keep  be- 
fore his  mind  a  rhapsodist  and  an  actor,  each  in  the 
character  of  a  poet,  the  former  surrounded  by  a  circle 
of  listeners  quietly  following  with  rapt  attention,  the 
latter  by  an  impatient  throng  who  have  come  simply  to 
see  and  to  hear.  It  would  then  not  be  difficult  to 
deduce  what  is  most  advantageous  to  either  of  these 
two  forms  of  poetry,  what  subjects  either  will  choose 
preeminently,  nor  what  motives  either  will  make  use  of 
most  frequently ;  as  I  remarked  in  the  beginning,  neither 
can  lay  claim  to  any  one  thing  exclusively. 

The  subject  of  the  epic  as  well  as  of  tragedy  should 
be  based  on  the  purely  human,  it  should  be  vital, 
and  it  should  make  an  appeal  to  one's  feelings.  The 
best  effect  is  produced  when  the  characters  stand  upon 
a  certain  plane  of  cultural  advancement,  so  that  their 
1  By  Goethe  and  Schiller, 

100 


On  Epic  and  Dramatic  Poetry 

actions  are  purely  the  expression  of  their  personality 
and  are  not  influenced  by  moral,  political  or  mechani- 
cal considerations.  The  myths  of  the  heroic  times  were 
especially  useful  to  the  poets  on  these  grounds. 

The  epic  poem  represents  more  especially  action  re- 
stricted to  individuals ;  tragedy,  suffering  restricted  to 
individuals.  The  epic  poem  represents  man  as  an 
external  agent,  engaged  in  battles,  journeys,  in  fact 
in  every  possible  kind  of  undertaking,  and  so  demands 
a  certain  elaborateness  of  treatment.  Tragedy,  on  the 
other  hand,  represents  man  as  an  internal  agent,  and 
the  action,  therefore,  requires  but  little  space  in  a  genu- 
ine tragedy. 

There  are  five  kinds  of  motives: 

(1)  Progressive,  which  advance  the  action.  These 
the  drama  uses  preeminently. 

(2)  Retrogressive,  which  draw  the  action  away  from 
its  goal.     These  the  epic  poem  uses  almost  exclusively. 

(3)  Retarding,  which  delay  the  progress  of  the  ac- 
tion or  lengthen  its  course.  Both  epic  and  tragic 
poetry  use  these  to  very  great  advantage. 

(4)  Retrospective,  which  introduce  into  the  poem 
events  which  happened  before  the  time  of  the  poem. 

(5)  Prospective,  which  anticipate  what  will  happen 
after  the  time  of  the  poem.  The  epic  as  well  as  the 
dramatic  poet  uses  the  last  two  kinds  of  motives  to 
make  his  poem  complete. 

The  worlds  which  are  to  be  represented  are  com- 
mon to  both,  namely: — 

(1)  The  physical  world,  which  consists  first  of  all 
of  the  immediate  world  to  which  the  persons  represented 
belong  and  which  surrounds  them.  In  it  the  dramatist 
limits  himself  mostly   to   one  locality,  while   Jthe   epic 

101 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

poet  moves  about  with  greater  freedom  and  in  a  larger 
sphere.  Secondly,  the  physical  world,  containing  the 
more  remote  world  in  which  all  of  nature  is  included. 
This  world  the  epic  poet,  who  appeals  exclusively  to  the 
imagination,  makes  more  intelligible  through  the  use 
of  similes  and  metaphors,  which  figures  of  speech  are 
employed  more  sparingly  by  the  dramatist. 

(2)  The  moral  world,  which  is  absolutely  common 
to  both,  and,  whether  normal  or  pathological,  is  best 
represented  in  its  simplicity. 

(3)  The  world  of  fancies,  forebodings,  apparitions, 
chance  and  fate.  This  is  available  to  both,  only  it 
must  of  course  be  approximated  to  the  world  of  the 
senses.  In  this  world  there  arises  a  special  difficulty 
for  us  moderns,  because  we  cannot  easily  find  substi- 
tutes for  the  fabulous  creatures,  gods,  soothsayers  and 
oracles  of  the  ancients,  however  much  we  may  desire  to. 

If  we  consider  the  manner  of  treatment  as  a  whole, 
we  shall  find  the  rhapsodist,  who  recites  what  is  com- 
pletely past,  appearing  as  a  wise  man,  with  calm  delib- 
eration surveying  the  events.  It  will  be  the  purpose 
of  his  recital  to  get  his  hearers  into  an  even  frame 
of  mind,  so  that  they  will  listen  to  him  long  and  will- 
ingly. He  will  divide  the  interest  evenly,  because  it 
is  impossible  for  him  to  counteract  quickly  a  too  vivid 
impression.  He  will,  according  to  his  pleasure,  go  back 
in  point  of  time  or  anticipate  what  is  to  come.  We  may 
follow  him  everywhere,  for  he  makes  his  appeal  only 
to  the  imagination,  which  originates  its  own  images  and 
which  is  to  a  certain  extent  indifferent  as  to  which 
images  are  called  up.  The  rhapsodist  as  a  higher  being 
ought  not  to  appear  himself  in  his  poem;  he  would 
read  best  of  all  behind  a  curtain,  so  that  we  may 
102 


On  Epic  and  Dramatic  Poetry 

separate  everything  personal  from  his  work,  and  may 
believe  we  are  hearing  only  the  voice  of  the  Muses. 

The.  actor  represents  the  very  reverse  of  this.  He 
presents  himself  as  a  definite  individuality.  It  is  his 
desire  to  have  us  take  interest  exclusively  in  him  and 
in  his  immediate  surroundings,  so  that  we  may  feel  with 
him  the  sufferings  of  his  soul  and  of  his  body,  may  share 
his  embarrassments  and  forget  ourselves  in  him.  To 
be  sure  he,  too,  will  proceed  by  degrees,  but  he  can  risk 
far  more  vivid  effects,  because  by  his  actual  presence 
before  the  eyes  of  the  audience  he  can  neutralize  a 
stronger  impression  even  by  a  weaker  one.  The  senses  of 
spectators  and  listeners  must  be  constantly  stimulated. 
They  must  not  rise  to  a  contemplative  frame  of  mind, 
but  must  follow  eagerly ;  their  imagination  must  be  com- 
pletely suppressed ;  no  demands  must  be  made  upon  it ; 
and  even  what  is  narrated  must  be  vividly  brought  be- 
fore their  vision,  as  it  were,  in  terms  of  action. 


103 


SUPPLEMENT  TO  ARISTOTLE'S  POETICS  ^ 

(1827) 

Every  one  who  has  concerned  himself  at  all  about  the 
theory  of  poetic  art — and  of  tragedy  in  particular — 
will  remember  a  passage  in  Aristotle  which  has  caused 
the  commentators  much  difficulty,  without  their  ever 
having  been  able  to  convince  themselves  wholly  of  its 
meaning.  In  his  definition  of  tragedy  this  great  writer 
seems  to  demand  of  it  that,  through  the  representation 
of  stirring  deeds  and  events,  which  should  arouse  pity 
and  fear,  the  soul  of  the  spectator  should  be  purified 
of  these  passions. 

My  thoughts  and  convictions  in  regard  to  this  pas- 
sage I  can  best  impart  by  a  translation  of  it: — 

''  Tragedy  is  the  imitation  of  a  significant  and  com- 
plete action,  which  has  a  certain  extension  in  time  and 
is  portrayed  in  beautiful  language  by  separate  indi- 
viduals, each  of  whom  plays  a  role,  instead  of  having 

1"!  have  just  re-read  the  Poetics  of  Aristotle  with  the  great- 
est pleasure;  intelligence  in  its  highest  manifestation  is  a  fine 
thing.  It  is  really  remarkable  how  Aristotle  limits  himself 
entirely  to  experience,  and  so  appears,  if  perhaps  somewhat  mate- 
rial, for  the  most  part  all  the  more  solid.  It  was  also  stimulat- 
ing to  me  to  see  with  what  liberality  he  always  shields  the  poet 
against  the  fault-finders  and  the  hypercritical,  how  he  always  in- 
sists on  essentials,  and  in  everything  else  is  so  lax  that  in  more 
than  one  place  I  was  simply  amazed.  It  is  this  that  makes  his 
whole  view  of  poetry,  and  especially  of  his  favorite  forms,  so 
vivifying  that  I  shall  soon  take  up  the  book  again,  especially 
in  regard  to  some  important  passages  which  are  not  quite  clear 
and  the  meaning  of  which  I  wish  to  investigate  further." — Goethe 
to  Schiller,  April  28,  1797. 

104 


Supplement  to  Aristotle's  Poetics 

all  represenied  by  one  person  as  in  the  narration  of  a 
story  or  epic.  After  a  course  of  events  arousing  pity 
and  fear,  the  action  closes  with  the  equilibration  of 
these*  passions." 

In  the  foregoing  translation,  I  believe  I  have  made 
this  hitherto  dubious  passage  clear;  it  will  only  be 
necessary  to  add  the  following  remarks:  Could  Aris- 
totle, notwithstanding  his  always  objective  manner, — 
as,  for  instance,  here,  where  he  seems  to  be  speaking 
exclusively  of  the  technique  of  tragedy, — ^be  really 
thinking  of  the  effect,  indeed  the  distant  effect,  upon 
the  spectator?  By  no  means !  He  speaks  clearly  and 
definitely:  When  the  course  of  action  is  one  arousing 
pity  and  fear,  the  tragedy  must  close  on  the  stage  with 
an  equilibration,  a  reconciliation,  of  these  emotions. 

By  "  catharsis,"  hfe  understands  this  reconciling  cul- 
mination, which  is  demanded  of  all  drama,  indeed  of  all 
poetical  works. 

This  occurs  in  the  tragedy  through  a  kind  of  human 
sacrifice,  whether  it  be  rigidly  worked  out  with  the 
death  of  the  victim,  or,  under  the  influence  of  a  favor- 
ing divinity,  be  satisfied  by  a  substitute,  as  in  the  case 
of  Abraham  and  Agamemnon.  But  this  reconciliation, 
this  release,  is  necessary  at  the  end  if  the  tragedy  is 
to  be  a  perfect  work  of  art.  This  release,  on  the  other 
hand,  when  effected  through  a  favorable  or  desirable 
outcome,  rather  makes  the  work  resemble  an  inter- 
mediate species  of  art,  as  in  the  return  of  Alcestis.  In 
comedy,  on  the  contrary,  for  the  clearing  up  of  all 
complications,  which  in  themselves  are  of  little  signifi- 
cance from  the  point  of  view  of  arousing  fear  and  hope, 
a  marriage  is  usually  introduced;  and  this,  even  if  it 
does  not  end  life  completely,  does  make  in  it  an  impor- 

105 


GoetJie's  Literary  Essays 

tant  and  serious  break.  Nobody  wants  to  die,  every- 
body to  marry;  and  in  this  lies  the  half- jocose,  half- 
serious  difference  between  tragedy  and  comedy  in  prac- 
tical eesthetics. 

We  shall  perceive  further  that  the  Greeks  did  make 
use  of  their  "  trilogy  "  for  such  a  purpose ;  for  there 
is  no  loftier  "  catharsis  "  than  the  (Edipus  of  Kolonus, 
where  a  half-guilty  delinquent, — a  man  who,  through  a 
demonic  strain  in  his  nature,  through  the  sombre  vehe- 
mence as  well  as  greatness  of  his  character,  and 
through  a  headstrong  course  of  action,  puts  himself  at 
the  mercy  of  the  ever-inscrutable,  unalterable  powers, — ■ 
plunges  himself  and  his  family  into  the  d*eepest,  ir- 
reparable misery,  and  yet  finally,  after  having  made 
atonement  and  reparation,  is  raised  to  the  company  of 
the  gods,  as  the  auspicious  protecting  spirit  of  a  region, 
revered  with  special  sacrifices  and  services. 

Here  we  find  the  principle  of  the  great  master,  that 
the  hero  of  a  tragedy  must  be  regarded  and  repre- 
sented neither  as  wholly  guilty  nor  as  wholly  innocent. 
In  the  first  case  the  catharsis  would  merely  result  from 
the  nature  of  the  story,  and  the  murdered  wretch  would 
appear  only  to  have  escaped  the  common  justice  which 
would  have  fallen  upon  him  anyway  by  law.  In  the 
second  case,  it  is  not  feasible  either;  for  then  there 
would  seem  to  fall  on  human  power  or  fate  the  weight 
of  an  all  too  heavy  burden  of  injustice. 

But  on  this  subject  I  do  not  wish  to  wax  polemical, 
any  more  than  on  any  other ;  I  have  only  to  point  out 
here  how  up  to  the  present  time  people  have  been  in- 
clined to  put  up  with  a  dubious  interpretation  of  this 
passage.  Aristotle  had  said  in  the  Politics  that  music 
could  be  made  use  of  in  education  for  ethical  pur- 
106 


Supplement  to  Aristotle's  Poetics 

poses,  since  by  means  of  the  sacred  melodies  the  minds 
of  those  raised  to  frenzy  by  the  orgies  were  quieted  and 
soothed  again ;  thus  he  thought  other  emotions  and  pas- 
sions could  be  calmed  and  equilibrated.  That  the  argu- 
ment here  is  from  analogous  cases  we  cannot  deny ;  yet 
we  think  they  are  not  identical.  The  effect  of  music  de- 
pends on  its  particular  character,  as  Handel  has 
worked  out  in  his  "  Alexander's  Feast,"  and  as  we  can 
see  evidenced  at  every  ball,  where  perhaps  after  a  chaste 
and  dignified  polonaise,  a  waltz  is  played  and  whirls 
the  whole  company  of  young  people  away  in  a  bacchic 
frenzy. 

For  music,  like  all  the  arts,  has  little  power  di- 
rectly to  influence  morality,  and  it  is  always 'wrong  to 
demand  such  results  from  them.  Philosophy  and  Reli- 
gion alone  can  accomplish  this.  If  piety  and  duty  must 
be  stimulated,  the  arts  can  only  casually  effect  this 
stimulation.  What  they  can  accomplish,  however,  is 
a  softening  of  crude  manners  and  morals ;  yet  even  this 
may,  on  the  other  hand,  soon  degenerate  into  effeminacy. 

Whoever  is  on  the  path  of  a  truly  moral  and  spir- 
itual self-cultivation,  will  feel  and  acknowledge  that 
tragedy  and  tragic  romance  do  not  quiet  and  satisfy 
the  mind,  but  rather  tend  to  unsettle  the  emotions  and 
what  we  call  the  heart,  and  induce  a  vague,  unquiet 
mood.  Youth  is  apt  to  love  this  mood  and  is  for  that 
reason  passionately  devoted  to  such  productions. 

We  now  return  to  our  original  point,  and  repeat: 
Aristotle  speaks  of  the  technique  of  tragedy,  in  the  sense 
that  the  poet,  making  it  the  object  of  his  attention, 
contrives  to  create  something  pleasing  to  eye  and  lar  in 
a  course  of  a  completed  action. 

If  the  poet  has  fulfilled  this  purpose  and  his  duty 

lOT 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

on  his  side,  tying  together  his  knots  of  meaning  and 
unraveling  them  again,  the  same  process  will  pass  be- 
fore the  mind  of  the  spectator;  the  complications  will 
perplex  him,  the  solution  enlighten  him,  but  he  will  not 
go  home  any  the  better  for  it  all.  He  will  be  inclined 
perhaps,  if  he  is  given  to  reflection,  to  be  amazed  at 
the  state  of  mind  in  which  he  finds  himself  at  home 
again — ^just  as  frivolous,  as  obstinate,  as  zealous,  as 
weak,  as  tender  or  as  cynical  as  he  was  when  he  went 
out.  On  this  point  we  believe  we  have  said  all  we  can 
until  a  further  working  out  of  the  whole  subject  makes 
it  possible  to  understand  it  more  clearly. 


108 


ON  THE  GERMAN  THEATRE 

(1815) 

Now  that  the  German  stage,  as  one  of  our  best  na- 
tional institutions,  is  emerging  from  an  unfortunate 
narrowness  and  seclusion  into  freedom  and  vitality,  wise 
directors  are  exerting  themselves  to  produce  an  effect 
on  a  wide  public,  and  not  to  confine  themselves,  however 
earnestly,  to  any  single  institution.  Poets,  actors, 
managers,  and  public  will  come  to  a  better  and  better 
mutual  understanding,  but  in  the  gratification  of  the 
moment  they  must  not  forget  what  their  predecessors 
accomplished.  Only  upon  a  repertory  which  includes 
older  plays  can  a  national  theatre  be  founded.  I  hope 
that  the  following  words  will  have  a  favorable  reception, 
so  that  the  author's  courage  will  be  stimulated  and  he 
will  come  forward  from  time  to  time  with  similar  sug- 
gestions. 

A  Plan  of  Schiller's,  and  What  Came  of  It 

When  the  lamented  Schiller,  through  the  influence  of 
the  court,  the  solicitations  of  society,  and  the  incli- 
nations of  his  friends,  was  moved  to  change  his  place 
of  residence  from  Jena  to  Weimar,  and  to  renounce  that 
seclusion  in  which  until  then  he  had  wrapt  himself,  he 
had  the  theatre  at  Weimar  particularly  in  his  mind,  and 
he  decided  to  devote  his  attention  carefully  and  closely 
to  the  productions  there. 

109 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

And  such  a  narrowing  of  his  field  the  poet  needed, 
for  his  extraordinary  genius  from  his  youth  up  had 
sought  the  heights  and  the  depths.  The  power  of  his 
imagination,  his  poetical  activity,  had  led  him  over  a 
great  range;  but  in  spite  of  the  ardor  with  which  his 
mind  traversed  this  broad  range,  with  further  experience 
it  could  not  escape  his  clear  insight  that  these  quali- 
ties must  necessarily  lead  him  astray  in  the  field  of  the 
theatre. 

At  Jena  his  friends  had  been  witness  to  the  persever- 
ance and  resolute  determination  with  which  he  oc- 
cupied himself  with  "  Wallenstein."  This  subject,  which 
kept  expanding  at  the  hands  of  his  genius,  was  worked 
out,  knit  together,  revised,  in  numerous  ways,  until 
he  saw  at  last  that  it  would  be  necessary  to  divide 
the  piece  into  three  parts,  as  was  thereupon  done.  And 
afterwards  he  did  not  cease  to  make  alterations,  in  order 
that  the  principal  scenes  might  acquire  all  the  effect 
that  was  possible.  The  result  was,  however,  that  the 
Death  of  Wallenstein  was  given  oftener  on  all  stages 
than  the  Camp  and  the  Piccolomini. 

Don  Carlos  had  been  condensed  still  earlier  for  the 
stage;  and  whoever  will  compare  this  play,  as  it  is 
produced,  with  the  earlier  printed  edition,  will  recog- 
nize the  same  laborious  changes.  For  though  Schiller 
in  sketching  out  the  plan  of  his  work  felt  bound  by  no 
limitations,  in  a  later  revision  for  theatrical  purposes  he 
had  the  courage,  as  a  result  of  his  convictions,  to  adapt 
it  stringently,  yes  even  mercilessly,  to  the  practical  exi- 
gencies of  the  situation.  These  meant  a  definite  limita- 
tion of  time;  all  the  principal  scenes  had  to  pass  be- 
fore the  eyes  of  the  audience  in  a  certain  period  of 
time.  All  the  other  scenes  he  omitted,  and  yet  he  could 
110 


On  The  German  Theatre 

never  really  confine  himself  to  the  space  of  .three  hours. 

The  Robbers,  Intrigue  and  Love,  Fiesco,  produc- 
tions- of  an  aggressive  youthful  impatience  and  indigna- 
tion at  a  severe  and  confining  training,  had  to  undergo 
many  alterations  for  the  stage-production  which  was 
eagerly  demanded  by  the  public  and  especially^the  young 
men.  About  them  all  he  would  speculate  whether  it 
was  not  possible  to  assimilate  them  to  a  more  refined 
taste,  a  taste  such  as  he  had  trained  himself  since  to 
feel.  On  this  point  he  was  accustomed  to  take  long 
and  detailed  counsel  with  himself,  in  long  sleepless 
nights,  and  sometimes  on  pleasant  evenings  in  talks 
with  his  friends. 

Could  these  discussions  and  suggestions  have  been 
preserved  by  a  shorthand  writer,  we  should  have  pos- 
sessed a  noteworthy  contribution  to  productive  criti- 
cism. But  even  more  valuable  will  discerning  readers 
find  Schiller's  own  remarks  about  the  projected  and 
indeed  commenced  "  Demetrius,"  which  fine  example  of 
penetrating  and  critical  creative  ability  is  preserved  for 
us  in  the  supplement  to  his  works.  The  three  plays 
mentioned  above,  however,  we  decided  not  to  touch,  for 
what  is  offensive  in  them  is  too  closely  bound  up  with 
their  contents  and  form ;  and  we  had  to  trust  to  for- 
tune in  transmitting  them  to  posterity  just  as  they 
had  sprung  from  a  powerful  and  bizarre  genius. 

Schiller,  finely  matured,  had  not  attended  many 
performances,  when  his  active  mind,  considering  the 
situation  and  taking  a  comprehensive  view  of  things, 
got  the  idea  that  what  had  been  done  to  his  own  works 
could  be  done  in  the  case  of  other  men's.  So  he  drew 
up  a  plan  whereby  the  work  of  earlier  playwrights  might 
be  preserved  for  the  German  theatre,  without  prejudice 

111 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

to  contemporary  writers, — the  accepted  material,  the 
contents  of  the  works  chosen,  to  be  adapted  to  a  form 
which  should  be  partly  determined  by  the  requirements 
of  the  stage  and  partly  by  the  ideas  and  spirit  of  the 
present  time.  For  these  reasons  he  decided  to  devote 
the  hours  which  were  left  him  from  his  own  work  to 
constructing  plans,  in  company  with  congenial  friends, 
whereby  plays  which  had  a  significance  for  our  age 
might  be  revised,  and  a  true  German  Theatre  founded, — 
not  only  for  the  benefit  of  the  reader,  who  would  come 
to  know  famous  plays  from  a  new  standpoint,  but  also 
for  the  benefit  of  the  numerous  theatres  of  Geraiany, 
which  would  be  given  the  opportunity  of  strengthening 
their  repertories  by  laying  a  soHd  foundation  of  older 
works  under  the  ephemeral  productions  of  the  day. 

In  order  then  to  found  the  German  Theatre  on  true 
German  soil,  it  was  Schiller's  intention  to  revise  Klop- 
stock's  Hermanns  Schlacht.  The  play  was  taktn  up, 
but  the  first  consideration  of  it  produced  much  doubt 
in  his  mind.  Schiller's  judgment  was  in  general  very 
liberal,  but  at  the  same  time  independent  and  critical. 
The  ideal  demands  which  Schiller  a'ccording  to  his  na- 
ture was  obliged  to  make  were  not  satisfied,  and  the 
piece  was  soon  laid  aside.  Present-day  criticism  re- 
quires no  hints  in  order  to  discover  the  grounds  for 
the  decision. 

Towards  Lessing's  work  Schiller  had  a  singular  atti- 
tude. He  did  not  care  particularly  for  it,— indeed, 
Emilia  Galotti  was  repugnant  to  him.  Yet  this  tragedy 
as  well  as  Minna  von  Barnhelm  was  accepted  in  the 
repertory.  He  then  devoted  himself  to  Nathan  der 
Weise,  and  in  this  revision,  in  which  he  was  glad  to 
have  the  cooperation  of  discerning  friends,  the  piece 
112 


On  The  German  Theatre 

is  played  to  this  day,  and  it  will  be  retained  on  the 
boards,  because  able  actors  will  always  be  found  who 
feel  'themselves  equal  to  the  role  of  Nathan.  And 
may  the  German  public  remember  always  that  it 
is  called  not  only  to  witness  this  well-known  piece,  so 
excellently  staged,  but  also  to  hear  it  and  to  under- 
stand it !  May  there  never  come  a  time  when  the 
divine  spirit  of  toleration  and  forbearance  contained 
in  it  will  cease  to  be  sacred  to  the  nation. 

The  presence  of  the  distinguished  Iffland  in  1796 
gave  occasion  for  the  shortening  of  Egmont  to  the  form 
in  which  it  is  now  given  here  and  in  several  places  at 
present.  That  Schiller  rather  mutilated  it  in  his  revision 
is  indicated  by  a  comparison  of  the  following  scenes  with 
the  printed  play  itself.  The  public  was  annoyed  at 
the  omission  of  the  Princess,  for  instance;  yet  there  is 
in  Schiller's  work  such  a  consistency  that  no  one 
has  dared  to  attempt  to  alter  the  piece  for  fear  that 
other  errors  and  misadjustments  might  creep  into  its 
present  form. 

Egmont 

{First  Act) 

In  an  open  square,  cross-bow  shooters.  One  of  Eg- 
mont's  men  is  being  elevated  to  the  post  of  captain, 
through  his  skill  in  shooting,  and  his  health  and  that  of 
the  lord  are  being  drunk;  public  affairs  are  discussed, 
and  the  characters  of  distinguished  persons.  The  dis- 
position of  the  people  begins  to  show  itself.  Other 
citizens  come  in;  unrest  is  revealed.  A  lawyer  joins' 
them,  and  begins  to  discuss  the  liberties  of  the  people. 
Dissent   and  quarrels   follow.      Egmont   enters,  quiets 

113 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

his  men,  and  threatens  the  trouble-maker.     He  exhibits 
himself  as  an  honored  and  popular  prince. 


(Second  Act) 

Egmont  and  his  private  secretary,  through  wnose 
discourse  one  catches  a  glimpse  of  the  liberal,  inde- 
pendent, audacious  spirit  of  the  hero.  Orange  attempts 
to  inculcate  caution  into  his  friend,  and  since  word 
has  come  of  the  arrival  of  the  Duke  of  Alva,  tries  to 
persuade  him  to  flee;  but  all  in  vain. 

(Third  Act) 

The  citizens  in  fear  of  the  impending  danger;  the 
lawyer  foretells  Egmont's  fate;  the  Spanish  watch  en- 
ters, and  the  people  scatter. 

In  a  room  in  one  of  the  houses  we  find  Klaerchen 
thinking  of  her  love  for  Egmont.  She  seeks  to  spurn 
the  affection  of  her  lover  Brackenburg,  then  pro- 
ceeds with  mingled  pleasure  and  dread  to  think  of 
her  relations  with  Egmont;  he  enters,  and  all  is 
joy  and  happiness.  ^ 

(Fourth  Act) 

The  Palace.  Alva's  character  becomes  evident 
through  his  measures.  Ferdinand,  his  natural  son,  who 
is  attracted  by  the  personality  of  Egmont,  is  ordered 
to  take  him  prisoner,  in  order  that  he  himself  may 
become  accustomed  to  tyranny.  Egmont  and  Alva 
in  conversation;  the  former  frank  and  open,  the  latter 
reserved  and  at  the  same  time  tries  to  irritate  Egmont. 
The  latter  is  arrested. 


On  The  German  Theatre 

Brackenburg  on  the  street;  twilight.  Klaerchen 
wishes  to  incite  the  citizens  to  liberate  Egmont,  but 
they  withdraw  in  alarm;  Brackenburg,  alone  with 
Klaerchen,  attempts  to  calm  her,  but  in  vain. 


(Fifth  Act) 

Klaerchen  alone  in  a  room.  Brackenburg  brings  the 
news  of  preparations  for  Egmont's  execution.  Klaer- 
chen takes  poison,  Brackenburg  rushes  away,  the  lamp 
goes  out,  signifying  that  Klaerchen  has  passed  aw^ay. 

The  prison,  Egmont  alone.  The  sentence  of  death 
is  announced  to  him.  Scene  with  Ferdinand,  his  young 
friend.  Egmont,  alone,  falls  asleep.  Vision  of  Klaer- 
chen in  the  background.  He  is  waked  by  drums,  and 
follows  the  watch,  almost  with  the  air  of  the  com- 
mander himself. 

Concerning  the  last  appearance  of  Klaerchen,  opin- 
ions are  divided ;  Schiller  was  opposed  to  it,  the  author 
in  favor  of  it;  the  public  will  not  allow  it  to  be 
omitted. 

Since  the  present  discussion  does  not  attempt  to  deal 
with  plays  chronologically  but  with  reference  to  other 
considerations,  and  particularly  from  the  standpoint 
of  author  and  adapter,  I  shall  turn  next  to  Stella, 
which  also  owes  its  appearance  in  the  theatre  to  Schiller. 

Since  the  action  of  the^piece  is  unimpassioned  and 
smooth,  he  left  it  substantiallj  un^hangeH7ohly  ^s^^ 
ening  the  dialogue  here  and  there,  especially__when  it 
seempd  to  be  passing  from  the  dramatic  to  theidyllic 
^aad-jelegiac.  For  just  as  there  may  be  too  many  inci- 
dents in  a  piece,  so  there  may  be  too  great  an  expres- 

115 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

sion  of  feeling.  So  Schiller  resisted  the  enticements 
of  many^charmin^  pass ageFaiid  struck  them  relentlessly 
gut,  Well-staged,  the  piece  was  presented  on  January 
15,  1806,  for  the  first  time,  and  repeated.  It  soon  be- 
came^evident  that,  according  to  our  customs,  which  are 
founded  strictly  on  monogamy,  the  relation  of  a  man  to 
two  wives,  especially  as  it  appeared  in  this  play,  was  not 
to  be  reconciled,  and  for  that  reason  was  only  fit  ma- 
terial for  tragedy.  For  that  reason  the  attempt  of  the 
intelligent  Cecilie  to  harmonize  the  incongruities  proved 
futile.  The  piece  took  a  tragic  turn,  and  ended  in  a 
way  that  satisfied  the  emotions  and  elevated  the  feelings. 

iK<S.t  present  the  piece  is  quite  competently  acted,  and 
consequently  receives  the  most  unqualified  applause. 
But  a  sweeping  assurance  of  this  kind  can  hardly  be  of 
practical  utility  to  the  playhouses  which  intend  to  put 
on  the  piece ;  and  I  therefore  add  in  detail  some  further 
and  necessary  considerations. 

L^--^  The  role  of  Fernando  every  actor,  not  too  young, 
will  be  glad  to  undertake,  actors,  that  is,  who  are  fitted 
to  heroic  or  lovers'  roles,  and  they  will  try  to  express 
with  all  the  emotion  and  effect  possible,  the  impas- 
sioned dilemma  in  which  they  are  placed. 
,^^^-The  allotment  of  the  feminine  roles  is  more  difficult. 
There  are  five  of  them, — carefully  differentiated  and 
contrasted  characters.  The  actress  who  undertakes  the 
role  of  Stella  must  depict  to  us  not  only  her  indestructi- 
ble affection,  her  passionate  love,  her  glowing  enthu- 
siasm, but  must  also  make  us  share  her  feeling,  and 
carry  us  along  with  her. 

^^x^ecilie,  who  at  first  appears  weak  and  repressed,  must 
soon  leave  this  all  behind  her,  and  appear  before  us  as 
a  high-spirited  heroine  of  courage  and  intelligence. 
116 


On  The  German  Theatre 

^^^^^^Juucia.  represents  a  person  who  in  the  midst  of  an 
easy  and  comfortable  life  has  cultivated  her  talents 
independently,  does  not  feel  the  outer  pressures  which 
force  themselves  upon  her,  but  rather  casts  them  off. 
Not  a  trace  of  priggishness  or  conceit  should  appear. 
i^^-'^he  postmistress  is  no  quarrelsome  old  woman,  but 
a  young,  cheerful,  active  widow,  who  would  like  to 
marry  again  only  in  order  to  be  better  obeyed, 
u^^^nn,  if  possible,  should  be  acted  by  a  little  child.  In 
the  mouth  of  a  child,  if  she  speaks  clearly,  the  decisive- 
ness of  what  she  has  to  say  sounds  extremely  well.  If 
the  proper  contrasts  and  shading  are  given  to  all  these 
characters,  this  tragedy  will  not  miss  its  effect. 

The  first  act,  which  portrays  external  life,  should  be 
mastered  with  extraordinary  care  and  thoroughness, 
and  even  the  unimportant  incidents  ought  to  betray  a 
certain  artistic  fitness.  The  sounding  of  the  posthorn 
twice,  for  instance,  produces  an  agreeable  and  even 
artistic  effect.  The  steward  also  should  not  be  im- 
personated by  a  mediocre  but  by  an  excellent  actor, 
who  will  play  the  role  of  the  kindly  old  man  called  to 
a^  lover's  aid. 

If  one  considers  the  incredible  advantage  which  the 
composer  has  in  being  able  to  indicate  in  his  score  all 
his  wishes  and  intentions  by  a  thousand  words  and  signs, 
one  will  pardon  the  dramatic  poet  also  if  he  seeks  to 
enjoin  upoiL-tbe  directors  and  managers  whaTlie  holds 
indispensable  for  the  success  of  his  work.  ' 

Die  Laune  des  Verliehten  was  produced  at  the  thea- 
tre in  March,  1805,  just  when  this  little  piece  was  forty 
years  old.  In  it  everything  depends  on  the  role  of 
Egle.  If  a  versatile  actress  can  be  found  who  ex- 
presses the  character  perfectly,  then  the  piece  is  safe, 

117 


GoeiJie's  Literary  Essays 

and  is  witnessed  with  pleasure.  One  of  our  most 
agreeable  and  charming  actresses,  who  was  going  to 
Breslau,  took  it  to  the  theatre  there.  An  ingenious 
writer  made  use  of  the  idea  of  the  character  and  com- 
posed several  pieces  with  this  motive  for  the  actress. 
Stella  is  also  at  present  well  received  in  Berlin. 

Here  I  venture  to  make  an  observation  which  seems 
to  me  worth  c^jpeful  consideration  on  the  part  of  stage- 
managers.  \^^  one  tries  to  discover  just  why  certain 
pieces,  to  which  some  worth  is  not  to  be  denied,  eitlier 
are  never  produced  or  else,  even  when  they  make  a  good 
impression  for  a  time,  yet  little  by  little  disappear  from 
the  boards,  one  will  find  that  the  cause  lies  neither 
with  the  piece  nor  with  the  public,  but  that  tlie  neces- 
sary actors  are  lacking.^  For  this  reason  it  is  advis- 
able that  pieces  should  not  be  laid  entirely  aside  or 
dropped  from  the  repertory.  Rather  let  them  be  kept 
constantly  in  mind,  even  if  there  is  no  opportunity  to 
give  them  for  years.  Then  when  the  time  comes 
that  the  roles  can  be  adequately  filled  again,  one 
does  not  lose  the  chance  of  making  an  excellent  im- 
pression. 

Thus,  for  instance,  the  German  theatre  would  ex- 
perience a  great  change  if  a  figure  like  the  famous 
Seylerin  should  appear,  with  a  genuine  dramatic  talent 
trained  according  to  our  modern  requirements.  Speed- 
ily would  Medea,  Semiramis,  Agrippina  and  other  hero- 
ines, which  we  think  of  as  so  colossal,  be  resurrected 
from  the  grave;  other  roles  besides  would  be  trans- 
formed. Think  only  of  such  a  figure  as  Orsina,  and 
Emilia  Galotti  is  quite  another  play ;  the  Prince  is  ex- 
onerated as  soon  as  one  realizes  that  so  powerful  and 

118 


On  The  German  Theatre 

imperious  a  person  is  the  encumbrance  upon  his  shoul- 
ders. 

We  turn  now  to  the  Mitscliuldigen.  That  it  has  a 
certain  dramatic  value  may  be  inferred  from  the  fact 
that,  at  a  time  when  all  German  actors  seemed  afraid 
of  rhythm  and  rhyme,  it  was  turned  into  prose  and  pro- 
duced at  the  theatre,  where  it  could  not  maintain  itself 
because  a  principal  feature,  the  poetic  rhythm  and  the 
rhyme,  was  lacking.  But  now,  when  the  actors  are 
more  skilled  in  both,  this  attempt  could  be  made.  Some 
of  its  crudities  were  removed,  some  archaic  touches  mod- 
ernized, and  thus  it  continues  to  hold  the  boards  still 
if  the  cast  is  good.  It  was  put  on  at  the  same  time 
as  Die  Laune  des  Verliebten,  in  March,  1805.  Schiller 
made  many  suggestions  for  the  production,  but  he  did 
not  live  to  see  the  Raetsel  produced  in  September  of 
the  same  year.  This  had  a  great  success,  but  the  author 
desired  to  remain  anonymous  for  a  long  time.  After- 
wards, however,  he  published  a  sequel,  and  the  two 
pieces  help  to  support  each  other. 

Let  us  not  hesitate  in  the  German  theatre,  where 
there  appears  so  much  variety  besides,  to  place  side  by 
side  pieces  of  similar  motive  and  atmosphere,  in  order 
that  we  may  at  least  give  a  certain  breadth  to  the 
different  departments  of  dramatic  production. 

Iphigenia,  not  without  some  abbreviation,  was  put 
on  the  Weimar  stage  as  early  as  1802;  Tasso  first  in 
1807  after  a  long  and  quiet  preparation.  Both  plays 
continue  to  hold  the  boards,  with  the  support  of  actors 
and  actresses  who  are  exceptionally  excellent  and  well 
adapted  to  the  roles. 

Finally  we   shall  mention   Goetz  von  Berlichingen, 

119 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

which  was  produced  for  the  first  time  in  September, 
1804.  Although  Schiller  himself  would  not  undertake 
this  new  revision,  he  cooperated  in  every  possible  way, 
and  was  able  by  his  bold  resolution  to  facilitate  for 
the  author  many  a  point  of  revision;  from  the  be- 
ginning to  the  final  production  he  was  most  influential 
and  effective  both  in  word  and  deed.  Since  it  is  pro- 
duced at  few  theatres,  it  may  be  worth  while  to  relate 
here  briefly  the  action  of  the  piece,  and  to  point  out  in 
general  the  principles  according  to  which  this  revision 
was  made. 

Goetz  von  Berlichingen 
{First  Act) 

By  the  insults  which  are  accorded  his  servants  by 
some  peasants  in  the  inn  at  Bamberg,  we  learn  of  the 
hostility  between  Goetz  and  the  Bishop.  Some  horse- 
men in  the  service  of  this  knight  enter  and  relate  that 
Weislingen,  the  Bishop's  right-hand  man,  is  in  the  neigh- 
borhood.    They  hurry  away  to  notify  their  master. 

Goetz  appears  in  front  of  a  hut  in  the  woods,  alert 
and  listening.  A  stable-boy,  George,  declares  himself 
a  future  hero.  Brother  Martin  expresses  envy  of  the 
soldiers,  husband,  and  father.  The  servants  come  in 
with  the  news,  Goetz  hastens  away,  and  the  boy  is 
quieted  by  the  present  of  a  saint's  picture. 

At  Jaxthausen,  Goetz's  castle,  we  find  his  wife,  sis- 
ter and  son.  The  former  exhibits  herself  as  a  capable 
noblewoman,  the  latter  as  a  tender-hearted  woman, 
the  son  as  rather  eff'eminate.  Faud  brings  word  that 
Weislingen  is  captured  and  Goetz  is  bringing  him  in. 
The  women  go  out;  the  two  knights  enter;  by  Goetz's 
120 


On  The  German  Theatre 

frank  demeanor  and  the  narration  of  old  stories, 
Weislingen's  heart  is  touched.  Maria  and  Karl  come 
in;  the  child  invites  them  to  sit  down  at  table,  Maria 
asks  them  to  be  friends.  The  knights  give  each  other 
their  hands,  Maria  stands  between  them. 

(Second  Act) 

Maria  and  Weislingen  enter.  They  have  become 
lovers.  Goetz  and  Elizabeth  appear;  they  are  all 
busy  with  hopes  and  plans.  Weislingen  is  happy  in 
his  new  situation.  Franz,  Weislingen's  lad,  comes  from 
Bamberg  and  awakes  old  memories;  he  also  draws  a 
picture  of  the  dangerous  Adelaide  of  Walldorf.  His 
passion  for  this  lady  is  not  to  be  mistaken,  and  we 
begin  to  fear  that  he  will  carry  away  his  master 
with  him. 

Hans  von  Selbitz  comes  in,  representing  himself  to 
the  Lady  Elizabeth  as  a  merry  knight-errant.  Goetz 
gives  him  welcome.  The  news  that  merchants  from 
Nuremberg  are  passing  by  to  the  fair  is  brought  in; 
they  go  out.  In  the  forest  w^e  find  the  merchants  from 
Nuremberg;  they  are  fallen  upon  and  robbed.  Through 
George,  Goetz  learns  that  Weislingen  has  left  him. 
Goetz  is  inclined  to  work  off  his  chagrin  on  the  cap- 
tured merchants,  but  he  is  moved  to  give  back  a  jewel- 
box  which  a  lover  is  taking  to  his  mistress;  for  Goetz 
thinks  with  sadness  how  he  must  break  the  news  to  his 
sister  of  the  loss  of  her  betrothed. 

(Third  Act) 

Two  merchants  appear  in  the  pleasure-gardens  at 
Augsburg.      Maximilian,    vexed,    refuses    to    see    them. 

121 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Weislingen  encourages  them,  and  makes  use  of  the  op- 
portunity to  influence  the  Emperor  against  Goetz  and 
other  unruly  knights. 

Here  the  relations  between  Weislingen  and  his  wife 
Adelaide  develop;  she  compels  him  unconditionally  to 
promote  her  ambitions.  The  growing  passion  of  Franz 
for  her,  the  wanton  arts  used  to  seduce  him,  become 
apparent. 

We  now  return  to  Jaxthausen.  Sickingen  woos 
Maria.  Selbitz  brings  the  news  that  Goetz  is  declared 
an  outlaw.  They  seize  weapons.  Lerse  is  announced; 
Goetz  receives  him  joyfully. 

We  are  now  on  a  mountain;  wide  view,  ruined  tower, 
castle  and  rocks.  A  gipsy  family  is  here  seeking  pro- 
tection from  the  dangers  of  the  military  campaign  and 
the  unrest  of  the  country.  They  serve  to  give  coher- 
ence to  the  following  scenes.  The  captain  of  the  Im- 
perial troops  enters,  gives  his  orders,  makes  himself 
comfortable.  The  gipsies  cajole  him.  George  comes  sud- 
denly upon  the  summit ;  Selbitz  is  brought  in  wounded, 
having  been  attacked  by  servants  of  the  Emperor,  and 
rescued  by  Lerse.     He  is  visited  by  Goetz. 

{Fourth  Act) 

Jaxthausen.  Maria  and  Sickingen,  with  them  the 
victorious  Goetz.  He  is  afraid  that  he  will  be  sur- 
rounded. Maria  and  Sickingen  are  married ;  Goetz 
persuades  them  to  leave  the  castle.  Summons,  a  siege, 
brave  resistance,  the  family  table  once  more;  Lerse 
brings  news  of  a  capitulation ;  treachery. 

Wcislingen's  and  Adelaide's  dwelling  in  Augsburg. 
Night.  Adelaide's  masked  ball.  It  is  noticeable  that 
122 


On  The  German  Theatre 

the  Archduke  is  her  centre  of  interest  at  this  occasion; 
but  she  is  able  to  silence  the  jealous  Franz  and  use  him 
for  her  purposes. 

Tavern  at  Heilbronn.  The  Town  Hall  there. 
Goetz's  daring  and  boldness.  Sickingen  releases  him. 
The  familiar  scenes  are  left  in. 


(Fifth  Act) 

A  wood.  Goetz  and  George  Ijing  in  wait  for  a  wild 
animal.  It  is  painfully  evident  out  here  that  Goetz 
cannot  cross  his  boundaries.  We  realize  the  mischief 
of  the  peasant  war.  The  monster  advances;  Max 
Stumpf,  whom  they  have  dragged  along  with  them 
as  a  guide  and  leader,  decides  to  leave  them  and  the 
position.  Goetz,  half  persuaded,  half  compelled,  yields, 
announces  himself  as  their  captain  for  four  weeks  and 
breaks  his  ban.  The  peasants  are  divided  in  spirit,  and 
the  devil  is  loose. 

Weislingen  appears  at  the  head  of  knights  and  sol- 
diers against  the  rebels,  in  order  especially  to  capture 
Goetz,  and  thus  free  himself  from  the  hateful  feeling 
of  inferiority.  Relations  with  his  wife  are  very 
strained;  Franz's  overwhelming  passion  becomes  more 
and  more  evident.  Goetz  and  George  in  the  painful 
situation  of  being  associated  and  implicated  with  rebels. 

A  secret  judgment  is  issued  against  him.  Goetz 
flees  to  the  gipsies  and  is  captured  by  the  Imperial 
troops. 

Adelaide's  palace.  The  adventuress  parts  with  the 
happy  youth,  after  she  has  prevailed  upon  him  to  bring 
poison  to  her  husband.  An  apparition  appears ;  a 
powerful  scene  follows. 

123 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

From  these  dismal  surroundings,  we  pass  to  a  bright 
spring  garden.  Maria  is  sleeping  in  a  bower  of  flow- 
ers. Lerse  comes  to  her,  and  rouses  her  to  beg  Weis- 
lingen  for  her  brother's  life. 

Weislingen's  palace.  The  dying  man,  with  Maria 
and  Franz.  Goetz's  sentence  to  death  is  revoked,  and 
we  leave  the  dying  hero  in  the  prison  garden. 

The  principles  of  the  earlier  revisions  were  again  ap- 
plied in  this  case.  The  number  of  scene-changes  was 
lessened,  securing  more  opportunity  for  the  develop- 
ment of  the  characters,  the  action  was  condensed,  and, 
though  with  many  sacrifices,  the  play  finally  approxi- 
mated genuine  dramatic  form.  Why  it  has  not  in  this 
form  spread  more  widely  on  the  German  stage  will 
be  eventually  understood,  I  presume,  since  critics  are 
not  disinclined  to  give  accounts  of  the  reception  on 
the  stage  of  the  plays  of  the  various  German  authors, 
the  treatment  they  receive  and  the  length  of  time  their 
pieces  last. 

If  these  remarks  are  favorably  received,  we  shall 
probably  discuss  next  the  introduction  of  foreign  plays, 
such  as  has  already  taken  place  at  the  Weimar  Theatre. 
This  includes  Greek  and  French,  English,  Italian  and 
Spanish  plays,  besides  the  comedies  of  Terence  and 
Plautus,  in  which  masks  are  made  use  of. 

Most  necessary  would  it  be  perhaps  to  discuss  Shake- 
speare and  combat  the  prejudice  that  the  works  of 
this  extraordinary  writer  should  be  given  in  the  Ger- 
man Theatre  in  their  complete  length  and  breadth. 
This  false  idea  has  meant  the  suppression  of  the  older 
revisions  of  Schroeder,  and  prevented  others  from 
prospering. 
124 


On  The  German  Theatre 

It  must  be  emphatically  insisted,  and  with  solid  rean 

son,  that  in  this  case  as  in  so  many  others  the  reader 

,,^^-^niust  be  distinguished  from  and  fiarLgompanywitTEEe 

s^^ectator ;  each  has  his  rights^ _and  neither-  sliould.  be 

permitted  to  injure  the  other's. 


125 


LUDWIG  TIECK'S  DRAMATURGIC 
FRAGMENTS 

(1826) 

My  mind  has  been  stimulated  in  many  ways  by  tMs 
noteworthy  book. 

As  a  dramatic  poet,  as  a  writer  who  by  extensive 
travels  and  by  personal  observation  and  study  of  for- 
eign theatres  has  qualified  himself  as  a  critic  of  in- 
sight and  knowledge  in  connection  wdth  our  native 
theatre,  and  as  one  who  by  scholarly  study  has  fitted 
himself  to  be  a  historian  of  past  and  present  times,  the 
author  has  an  assured  position  with  the  German  pub- 
lic, which  is  here  especially  evident  and  notable.  In 
him,  criticism  rests  upon  pleasure,  pleasure  upon  knowl- 
e(Igej_andthese  criteria,  which  are  usually  thought  of 
as  distinct,  are  here^used  into  a  s atlsFy ing  whole. 

His  reverence  for  Kleist  is  highly  praiseworthy.  As 
far  as  I  am  personally  concerned,  in  spite  of  the  sin- 
cerest  desire  to  appreciate  him  justly,  Kleist  always 
arouses  in  me  horror  and  aversion,  as  of  a  body  in- 
tended by  nature  to  be  beautiful,  but  seized  by  an  in- 
curable illness.  Tieck  is  the  very  reverse ;  he  dwells 
rather  upon  the  good  that  has  been  left  by  nature; 
the  deformity  he  puts  aside,  excusing  much  more  than 
he  blames.  For,  after  all,  this  man  of  genius  deserves 
only  our  pity;  on  this  point  we  do  reach  agreement. 
^  I  also  agree  with  him  willingly  when,  as  champion 
for  the  jinityj  iTidivisibility^jLndLLoviplability  of  Shake- 
126        ^  ^ 


Ludwig  T tech's  Dramaturgic  Fi^agments 

sReare^s^gla^,  he  wants  to  have  them  put  on  the  stage 
without  revision  or  modification  from_&egi^]mg~Io  end. 
^/["When  ten  years  ago  I  was  of  the  contrary  opinion, 
and  made  more  than  one  attempt  to  select  only  the 
particularly  effective  parts  of  Shakespeare's  plays, 
rejecting  the  disturbing  and  the  diffuse,  I  was  quite 
right,  as  director  of  the  theatre,  in  doing  so.  For  I 
had  had  experience  in  tormenting  myself  and  the  actors 
for  the  space  of  a  month,  and  of  finally  putting  on  a 
production  which  indeed  entertained  and  aroused  admi- 
ration, but  which  on  account  of  conditions  hardly  pos- 
sible to  fulfil  moTe  than  once,  could  not  maintain  its 
place  in  the  repertory.  Still  I  am  perfectly  willing 
that  such  attempts  should  here  and  there  be  made,  for, 
on  the  whole,  failure  does  no  harm^ 

Since  men  are  not  to  get  rid  of  longing  and  aspi- 
ration, it  is  salutary  for  them  to  direct  their  un- 
satisfied idealism  towards  some  definite  object,  to  work, 
for  instance,  towards  depicting  a  mighty  though  van- 
ished past  seriously  and  worthily  in  the  present.  Now 
actors  as  well  as  poets  and  readers  have  the  oppor- 
tunity to  study  and  see  Shakespeare,  and,  through  their 
endeavors  to  attain  the  unattainable,  disclose  the  true 
inner  capabilities  and  potentialities  of  their  own  nature. 

Though  in  these  respects  I  completely  approve  of 
the  valuable  efforts  of  my  old  co-worker,  I  must  confess 
that  I  differ  from  him  in  some  of  his  utterances;  as, 
for  instance,  that  "  Lady  Macbeth  is  a  tender,  loving 
soul,  and  as  such  should  be  played."  I  do  not  consider 
such  remarks  to  be  really  the  author's  opinion,  but 
rather  paradoxes,  which  in  view  of  the  weighty  au- 
thority of  our  author  can  only  work  great  harm. 

It  is  in  the  nature  of  the  case,  and  Tieck  himself 

127 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

has  presented  significant  illustrations  of  the  fact,  that 

'^n  actor  who  does  not  feel  himself  to  be  quite  in  agree- 

ment— RJtL  thp__con_Yentional  portravalTmay  in  clever 

fashion  modify  and  adjust  it  to  himseTPandTiTs  "own 

naturepand  fUTlie  new  interpretation  so  well   as   to 

provide,  as  it  were,  a  new  and  brilliant  creation,  and 

^  indemniTy  us  for  the  clever  fiction  witli  unexpecTed~afnd 

^>>^  delightful  new  grounds  of  comparison  and  contrast. 

This  we  must  admit  as  valid;  but  we  cannot  approve 
the  case  where  the  theorist  makes  certain  intimations 
to  the  actor,  whereby  the  latter  is  led  astray  to  por- 
tray  thi^^le  in  a  new  manner  and  style  againsF^the 
obvious  intention  of  the  poet. 

From  many  viewpoints  such  an  undertaking  is  ques- 
tionable. The  public  is  looking  for  authority  always ; 
and  it  is  right.  For  do  we  not  act  similarly  in  taking 
counsel  in  joy  and  sorrow  with  those  who  are  well  versed 
in  the  wisdom  of  art  and  of  life?  Whoever  then  has 
acquired  any  legitimate  authority  in  any  field  should 
strive,  by  continual  assiduity  in  holding  close  to  the 
line  of  the  true  and  the  right,  to  preserve  that  authority 
in  inviolable  sanctity. 

An  important  paper  is  Tieck's  explanation  of  the 
Piccolamini  and  the  Wallenstein,  I  saw  these  plays 
develop  from  beginning  to  end,  and  I  am  filled  with 
admiration  at  the  degree  of  penetration  which  he  shows 
in  treating  a  work  which,  although  one  of  the  most 
excellent  not  only  on  the  German  stage  but  on  all 
stages,  yet  in  itself  is  unequal,  and  for  that  reason 
often  fails  to  satisfy  the  critic,  although  the  crowd, 
which  does  not  take  the  separate  parts  with  such  strict- 
ness, is  necessarily  charmed  with  it  as  a  whole. 

Most  of  the  places  where  Tieck  finds  something  to 
128 


Ludwig  Tiech's  Dramaturgic  Fragments 

criticize,  I  find  reason  to  consider  as  pathological.  If 
SchiUer  had  not  been  suffering  from  a  long  wasting 
disease,  which  finally  killed  him,  the  whole  thing  would 
have  been  different.  Our  correspondence,  which  relates 
in  the  clearest  way  the  circumstances  under  which 
Wallenstein  was  written,  will  stimulate  thoughtful 
people  to  much  profitable  reflection,  and  persuade  them 
to  think  ever  more  seriously  how  closely  our  jcsthetics 
is  connected  with  physiology,  pathology,  and  physics: 
in  this  way  they  may  realize  the  light  which  these  sci- 
ences throw  upon  the  conditions  to  which  individuals 
as  well  as  whole  nations,  the  most  extensive  world- 
epochs  as  well  as  daily  affairs,  are  subjected. 


129 


ON  DIDACTIC  POETRY 

(1827) 

Didactic  poetry  is  not  a  distinct  poetic  style  or 
genre  in  the  same  sense  as  the  lyric,  epic,  and  dramatic. 
Every  one  will  understand  this  who  recognizes  that  the 
latter  differ  in  form,  and  therefore  didactic  poetry, 
which  derives  its  name  from  its  content,  cannot  be  put 
in  the  same  category. 

All  poetry  should  be  instructive,  but  unobviously  so. 
It  should  draw  the  attention  of  a  reader  to  the  idea 
which  is  of  value  to  be  imparted;  but  he  himself  must 
draw  the  lesson  out  of  it,  as  he  does  out  of  life. 

Didactic  or  schoolmasterly  poetry  is  a  hybrid  be- 
tween poetry  and  rhetoric.  For  that  reason,  as  it  ap- 
proximates now  one  and  now  the  other,  it  is  able  to 
possess  more  or  less  of  poetic  value.  But,  like  descrip- 
tive and  satirical  poetry,  it  is  always  a  secondary  and 
subordinate  species,  which  in  a  true  aesthetic  is  always 
placed  between  the  art  of  poetry  and  the  art  of  speech. 
The  intrinsic  worth  of  didactic  poetry,  that  is  to 
say,  of  an  edifying  art-work,  written  with  charm  and 
vigor,  and  graced  with  rhythm  and  melody  and  the 
ornament  of  imaginative  power,  is  for  that  reason  in 
no  way  lessened.  From  the  rhymed  chronicles,  from 
the  verse-maxims  of  the  old  pedagogues,  down  to  the 
best  of  this  class,  all  have  their  value,  considered  in 
their  place  and  taken  at  their  proper  worth. 
130 


On  Didactic  Poetry 

If  one  examines  the  matter  closely  and  without  preju- 
dice, it  strikes  one  that  didactic  poetry  is  valuable 
for  the  sake  of  its  popular  appeal.  Even  the  most 
talented  poet  should  feel  himself  honored  to  have  treated 
in  this  style  a  chapter  of  useful  knowledge.  The  Eng- 
lish have  some  highly  praiseworthy  examples  of  this 
style.  With  jest  and  seriousness  they  curry  favor  with 
the  crowd,  and  then  discuss  in  explanatory  notes  what- 
ever the  reader  must  know  in  order  to  understand  the 
poem.  The  teacher  in  the  field  of  aesthetics,  ethics,  or 
history  has  a  fine  chance  to  systematize  and  clarify  this 
chapter  and  acquaint  his  students  with  the  merit  of  the 
best  works  of  this  kind,  not  according  to  the  utility  of 
their  contents,  but  with  reference  to  the  greater  or  less 
degree  of  their  poetical  value. 

This  subject  should  properly  be  quite  omitted  from 
a  course  on  aesthetics,  but  for  the  sake  of  those  who 
have  studied  poetry  and  rhetoric,  it  might  be  presented 
in  special  lectures,  perhaps  public.  Here  a  true  com- 
prehension, as  everywhere,  will  prove  of  great  advan- 
tage to  practice;  for  many  people  will  grasp  the  diffi- 
culty of  weaving  together  a  piece  out  of  knowledge  and 
imagination,  of  binding  two  opposed  elements  together 
into  a  living  bodily  whole.  The  lecturer  should  reveal 
the  means  by  which  this  reconciliation  can  be  made,  and 
his  auditors,  thereby  guarded  against  mistakes,  might 
each  attempt  in  his  own  way  to  produce  a  similar  effect. 

Among  the  many  ways  and  means  of  effecting  such 
a  fusion,  good  humor  is  the  most  certain,  and  could 
also  be  considered  the  most  suitable,  were  pure  humor 
not  so  rare. 

No  more  singular  undertaking  could  easily  be  thought 
of  than  to  turn  the  geology  of  a  district  into  a  didactic, 

131 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

and  indeed  highly  imaginative,  poem;  yet  this  is  what 
a  member  of  the  Geological  Society  of  London  has  done, 
in  an  attempt  to  popularize  in  this  way  a  subject,  and 
promote  a  study  usually  insufferable  to  the  thought 
of  travelers. 


132 


SUPERSTITION  AND  POETRY 
(1823) 

Superstition  is  the  poetry  of  life ;  both  build  an  imag- 
inary world,  and  between  the  things  of  the  actual,  pal- 
pable world  they  anticipate  the  most  marvelous  con- 
nections. Sympathy  and  antipathy  govern  everywhere. 
Poetry  is  ever  freeing  itself  from  such  fetters  as  it 
arbitrarily  imposes  upon  itself;  superstition,  on  the 
contrary,  can  be  compared  to  the  magic  cords  which 
draw  together  ever  the  tighter,  the  more  one  struggles 
against  them.  The  time  of  greatest  enlightenment  is 
not  secure  from  it ;  let  it  strike  an  uncultured  century 
or  epoch,  and  the  clouded  mind  of  poor  humanity  be- 
gins to  strive  after  the  impossible,  to  endeavor  to  have 
intercourse  with  and  influence  the  supernatural,  the 
far-distant,  the  future.  A  numerous  world  of  marvels 
it  constructs  for  itself,  surrounded  with  a  circle  of  dark- 
ness and  gloom.  Such  clouds  hang  over  whole  cen- 
turies, and  grow  thicker  and  thicker.  The  imagination 
broods  over  a  waste  of  sensuality ;  reason  seems  to  have 
turned  back  like  Astraea  to  its  divine  origin ;  wisdom  is 
in  despair,  since  she  has  no  means  of  successfully  assert- 
ing her  rights.  Superstition  does  not  harm  the  poet, 
for  he  knows  how  to  make  its  half-truths,  to  which  he' 
gives  only  a  literary  validity,  count  in  manifold  ways 
for  good. 


133 


THE   METHODS   OF   FRENCH   CRITICISM 
I  (1817) 
A  WEALTH  of  terms  for  unfavorable  criticism: — 

A.  abandonnee,  absurde,  arrogance,  astuce. 

B.  bafoue,  bete,  betise,   bouffissure,   bouquin,  bour- 

geois, boursouflure,  boutade,  brise,  brutalite. 

C.  cabale,  cagot,  canaille,  carcan,  clique,  contraire, 

creature. 

D.  declamatoire,    decrie,    degout,    denigrement,    de- 

pourvu,  deprave,  desobligeant,  detestable,  di- 
abolique,  dur. 

E.  echoppe,  enflure,   engouement,   ennui,   ennuyeux, 

enorme,  entortille,  ephemeres,  epluclie,  espece, 
etourneau. 

F.  factice,    fadaise,    faible,    faineant,    fane,    fasti- 

dieux,    fatigant,    fatuite,    faux,    force,    fou, 
fourre,  friperie,  frivole,  furieux. 

G.  gate,   gauchement,    gaudier,    grimace,    grossier, 

grossierement. 

H.  haillons,  honnetemcnt,  bonte,  horreur. 
I.  imbecile,  impertinence,  impertinent,  impuissant, 
incorrection,  indecis,  indetermine,  indifference, 
indignites,  inegalite,  inguerissable,  insipide, 
insipidite,  insoutenable,  intolerant,  jouets,  ir- 
reflechi. 

L.    laquais,  leger,  lesine,  louche,  lourd. 

M.    maladresse,  manque,  maroud,  mauvais,  mediocre, 
mepris,  meprise,  mignardise,  mordant. 
134 


The  Methods  of  French  Criticism 

N.    neglige,  negligence,  noirceur,  non-soin. 

0.  odieux. 

P..  passable,  pauvrete,  penible,  petites-maisons,  peu- 

propre,  pie-grieche,  pitoyable,  plat,  platitude, 

pompeux,  precieux,  puerilites. 
R.    rapsodie,    ratatine,    rebattu,    rechauffe,    redon- 

dance,  retreci,  revoltant,  ridicule,  roquet. 
S.    sans    succes,    sifflets,    singerie,    somnifere,    sopo- 

rifique,  sottise,  subalteme. 
T.    terrasse,  tombee,  trainee,  travers,  triste. 
V.    vague,  vexe,  vide,  vieillerie,  volumineux. 

A  scanty  store  for  praise: — 

A.  anime,   applaudie. 

B.  brillant. 

C.  cliarmant,  correct. 

E.  esprit. 

F.  facile,  finesse. 

G.  gout,  grace,  gracieux,  grave. 

1.  invention,  justesse. 
L.  leger,  legerete,  libre. 
N.  nombreux. 

P.  piquant,  prodigieux,  pur. 

R.  raisonnable. 

S.  spirituel. 

V.  verve. 

"  Words  are  the  image  of  the  soul ;  yet  not  an  image, 
but  rather  a  shadow!  Expressing  roughly,  and  signi- 
fying gently,  all  that  we  have,  all  that  we  have  had 
in  our  experience!  What  was, — where  has  it  gone? 
and  what  is  that  which  is  with  us  now  "^     Ah !  we  speak ! 

135 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Swiftly  we  catch  and  seize  the  gifts  of  life  as  they  fleet 
by  us." 

The  insight  and  character  of  a  man  express  them- 
selves most  clearly  in  his  judgments.  In  what  he  re- 
jects, and  what  he  accepts,  he  confesses  to  what  is 
alien  to  him  and  what  he  has  need  of ;  and  so  each  year 
designates  unconsciously  its  present  spiritual  state,  the 
compass  of  its  past  life. 

Thus  is  it  also  with  nations ;  their  praise  and  censure 
must  always  be  strictly  consonant  to  their  situation. 
We  possessed  Greek  and  Roman  terminology  of  this 
sort ;  the  foregoing  would  give  an  occasion  for  examin- 
ing recent  criticism.  Like  the  individual  man,  the  na- 
tion rests  on  traditional  ideas,  foreign  more  often  than 
native,  both  inherited  and  original.  But  only  in  so  far 
as  a  people  has  a  native  literature  can  it  judge  and 
understand  the  past  as  it  does  the  present.  The  Eng- 
lishman clings  earnestly  and  stubbornly  to  classic  an- 
tiquity, and  will  not  be  convinced  that  the  Orient  has 
produced  poets,  unless  he  can  be  shown  parallel  pas- 
sages from  Horace.  What  advantages,  on  the  other 
hand,  Shakespeare's  independent  genius  has  brought  to 
the  nation  can  hardly  be  expressed. 

The  French  by  the  introduction  of  badly  understood 
classical  principles  and  an  over-nice  sense  of  form  so 
constrained  their  poetry  that  it  must  finally  quite  dis- 
appear, since  it  could  not  become  more  similar  to  prose. 
The  German  was  on  the  right  road  and  will  find  it  again, 
as  soon  as  he  gives  up  the  unhappy  attempt  to  rank  the 
Nibelungen  with  the  Iliad. 

The  favorable  opinion  which  an  excellent  foreign 
writer  has  concerning  us  Germans  may  be  appropriately 
136 


Tlie  Methods  of  French  Criticism 

related  here.  The  Privy  Councilor  of  the  Russian 
Empire,  Count  Uvaroff,  speaks  thus  in  our  honor,  in  a 
preface  addressed  to  an  old  friend  and  partner,  and 
contained  in  his  valuable  work  on  Nonnus  of  Panopolis, 
the  Poet  (St.  Petersburg,  1817)  :  "  The  renaissance  of 
archaeology  belongs  to  the  Germans.  Other  peoples 
may  have  contributed  preparatory  work,  but  if  the 
more  advanced  philological  studies  are  ever  developed 
to  a  complete  whole,  such  a  palingenesis  or  regen- 
eration could  only  take  place  in  Germany.  For  this 
reason,  certain  new  views  can  hardly  be  expressed  in 
any  other  language,  and  on  that  account  I  have  writ- 
ten in  German.  I  hope  we  have  now  given  up  the  per- 
verse notion  of  the  political  preeminence  of  this  or  that 
language.  It  is  time  that  every  one,  unconcerned  about 
the  instrument  itself,  should  select  the  language  which 
fits  most  closely  the  circle  of  ideas  in  which  his  thought 
is  moving." 

Here  speaks  an  able,  talented,  intellectual  man,  whose 
mind  is  above  the  petty  limitations  of  a  cold  literary 
patriotism,  and  who,  like  a  master  of  musical  art,  draws 
the  stops  of  his  well-equipped  organ  which  express  the 
thought  and  feeling  of  each  moment.  Would  that  all 
cultivated  Germans  would  take  thankfully  to  heart 
these  excellent  and  instructive  words  of  his,  and  that 
intellectual  youths  would  be  inspired  to  make  themselves 
proficient  in  several  languages,  as  optional  instru- 
ments of  life! 

II  (1820) 

In  my  article  on  "  Urteilsworte  franzoslscher  Kriti- 
ker,"  a  large  number  of  unfavorable  epithets  used  by 
French  critics  were  set  off  against  a  scanty  number  of 

137 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

favorable  words.  In  connection  with  this,  the  Vrai 
Liberal  of  February  4, 1819,  lodges  a  complaint  against 
me  and  accuses  me  of  an  injustice  towards  the  French 
nation.  It  does  this  with  so  much  civility  and  charm  as 
to  make  me  ashamed  of  myself,  were  it  not  for  the  fact 
that  behind  my  presentation  of  those  words  there  lay  a 
secret,  which  I  hasten  to  reveal  to  it  and  to  my  readers 
at  this  time. 

I  admit  without  hesitation  that  the  Brussels  corre- 
spondent of  the  Vrai  Liberal  is  quite  right  when  he 
points  out  how  among  the  words  of  censure  which 
I  gave  there  appear  many  peculiar  ones  which  one 
would  not  exactly  expect;  and  in  addition,  that  in 
the  list  of  favorable  words,  several  are  lacking 
which  ought  to  occur  to  every  one.  In  order 
to  explain  this,  and  make  the  story  clearer,  I  shall  re- 
late how  I  was  induced  to  make  this  particular  list. 

When  Herr  von  Grimm  forty  years  ago  achieved  an 
honorable  entrance  into  Parisian  society,  at  that  time 
extraordinarily  talented  and  intellectual,  and  was  rec- 
ognized practically  as  a  member  of  this  distinguished 
company,  he  decided  to  send  a  written  bulletin  of  liter- 
ary and  other  interesting  matters  to  princely  personages 
and  wealthy  people  in  Germany,  in  order  to  entertain 
them,  for  a  considerable  remuneration,  with  the  char- 
acteristic life  of  Paris  circles,  in  regard  to  which  they 
were  curious  in  the  outside  world,  because  they  could 
well  consider  Paris  as  the  centre  of  the  cultured  world. 
These  letters  were  to  contain  not  merely  news ;  but  the 
best  works  of  Diderot,  The  Nun,  Jacques  the  Fatalist, 
etc.,  were  by  degrees  inserted  in  such  small  portions 
that  curiosity,  attention,  and  eagerness  were  kept  alive 
from  number  to  number. 
138 


The  Methods  of  Ft^ench  Criticism 

Through  the  favor  of  distinguished  patrons  I  was 
permitted  to  peruse  these  bulletins  regularly,  and  I  did 
not  neglect  to  study  them  with  great  deliberation  and 
ardor.  Now,  if  I  may  be  permitted  to  say  it  to  my 
credit,  I  always  cheerfully  recognized  the  superiority 
of  the  writers  and  their  works,  treasured  and  ad- 
mired them,  and  also  thankfully  profited  by  them.  For 
this  reason  I  was  soon  struck  in  this  correspond- 
ence of  Grimm's  with  the  fact  that  in  the  stories,  anec- 
dotes, delineation  of  character,  description,  criticism, 
one  noticed  more  of  censure  than  of  praise,  more  de- 
rogatory than  laudatory  terminology.  One  day  in  good 
humor,  for  my  own  consideration  and  edification,  I  be- 
gan to  take  down  the  complete  expressions,  and  later, 
half  in  jest  and  half  in  earnest,  to  split  them  up  and 
arrange  them  alphabetically;  and  thus  they  remained 
on  my  desk  for  many  years. 

When  finally  the  correspondence  of  Grimm  was  pub- 
lished, I  read  it  as  the  document  of  a  past  age,  but 
with  care,  and  soon  came  upon  many  an  expression 
which  I  had  noticed  before;  and  I  was  convinced 
anew  that  the  censure  by  far  exceeded  the  praise.  Then 
I  hunted  up  the  earlier  work  of  mine  and  had  it 
printed,  for  the  sake  of  intellectual  edification,  which 
did  not  fail  me.  At  the  moment  I  was  not  able  to  give 
further  attention  to  the  matter;  and  it  is  therefore  not 
unlikely  that  in  so  voluminous  a  work  many  a  word  of 
praise  and  blame  that  has  escaped  me  may  be  found. 

But  in  order  that  this  reproach,  which  appeared 
to  concern  a  whole  nation,  may  not  be  left  clinging  to 
a  single  author,  I  shall  reserve  the  privilege  of  dis- 
cussing this  important  literary  topic  on  more  general 
lines  in  the  near  future. 

139 


ON  CRITICISM 

(1821-24) 


Criticism  is  either  destructive  or  constructive.  The 
former  is  very  easy;  for  one  need  only  set  up  some 
imaginary  standard,  some  model  or  other,  however  fool- 
ish this  may  be,  and  then  boldly  assert  that  the  work 
of  art  under  consideration  does  not  measure  up  to  that 
standard,  and  therefore  is  of  no  value.  That  settles 
\  the  matter,  and  one  can  without  any  more  ado  declare 
that  the  poet  has  not  come  up  to  one's  requirements. 
In  this  way  the.  critic  frees  himself  of  all  obligations 
of  gratitude  toward  the  artist. 

Constructive  criticism  is  much  harder.  It  asks: 
What  did  the  author  set  out  to  do?  Was  his  plan 
reaso^iable  and  sensible,  and  how  far  did  he  succeed 
in  carrying  it  out?  If  these  questions  are  answered 
with  discernment  and  sympathy,  we  may  be  of  real  as- 
sistance to  the  author  in  his  later  works,  for  even  in 
his  first  attempts  he  has  undoubtedly  taken  certain  pre- 
liminary steps  which  approach  the  level  of  our  criti- 
cism. 

Perhaps  we  should  call  attention  to  another  point 
which  is  altogether  too  frequently  overlooked,  namely, 
that  the  critic  must  judge  a  work  of  art  more  for  the 
,,gLaJie-of  the  author  than  of_the  public!^  Every  Hay  we 
see  how,  without  the  least  regard  for  the  opinions  of 
140 


On  Criticism 

reviewers,  some  drama  or  novel  is  received  by  men 
and  women  in  the  most  divers  individual  ways,  is 
prai&ed,  found  fault  with,  given  or  refused  a  place  in 
the  heart,  merely  as  it  happens  to  appeal  to  the  per- 
sonal idiosyncrasy  of  each  reader. 


^^"^^^  Criticism  is  a  practice  of  the  Moderns.  What  does 
this  mean?  Just  this:  If  you  read  a  book  and  let  it 
work  upon  you,  and  yield  yourself  up  entirely  to  its 
influence,  then,  and  only  then,  will  you  arrive  at  a 
correct  judgment  of  it. 

in 

Some  of  my  admiring  readers  have  told  me  for  a  long 

time  that  instead  of  pxprpssin^r  a.  pif^gmpnt  r>nh""ks, 
I  describe  the  influence  which  they  have  had  on  me. 
And  at  bottom  this  is  the  way  all  readers  criticize, 
even  if  they  do  not  communicate  an  opinion  or  for- 
mulate ideas  about  it  to  the  public.  The  scholar  finds 
nothing  new  in  a  book,  and  therefore  cannot  praise 
it,  while  the  young  student,  eager  for  knowledge,  finds 
that  knowledge  increased,  and  a  stimulus  given  to  his 
culture.  The  one  is  stirred,  while  the  other  remains 
cold.  This  explains  why  the  reception  of  books  is  so 
varied. 

IV 

I  am  more  and  more  convinced  that  whenever  one 
has  to  express  an  opinion  on  the  actions  or  on  the 
writings  of  others,  unless  this  be  done  from  a  certain 
one-sided  enthusiasm,  or  from  a  loving  interest  in  the 

141 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

person  and  the  work,  the  result  is  hardly  worth  consid- 
ering. J^yTTTTp^lby  ^^^  p^J03^m^^t  ir  jehat__we_see  are 
ip  fact  the  only  reality ;  and  from  such  reality,  reality 
as  a  natural  product  follows^     All  else  is  vanity. 


142 


ON  SHAKESPEARE 


WILHELM  MEISTER'S  CRITIQUE  OF  HAMLET, 

(1795) 

WiLHELM  had  scarcely  read  one  or  two  of  Shake- 
speare's plays,  till  their  effect  on  him  became  so  strong, 
that  he  could  go  no  farther.  His  whole  soul  was  in 
commotion.  He  sought  an  opportunity  to  speak  with 
Jarno;  to  whom,  on  meeting  with  him,  he  expressed 
his  boundless  gratitude  for  such  delicious  entertain- 
ment. 

"  I  clearly  enough  foresaw,"  said  Jarno,  ^^  that  you 
would  not  remain  insensible  to  the  charms  of  the  most 
extraordinary  and  most  admirable  of  all  writers." 

"  Yes,"  exclaimed  our  friend,  "  I  cannot  recollect 
that  any  book,  any  man,  any  incident  of  my  life,  has 
produced  such  important  effects  on  me,  as  the  precious 
works  to  which  by  your  kindness  I  have  been  directed. 
They  seem  as  if  they  were  perfoi:mances  of  some  celes- 
tial genius,  descending  among  men,  to  make  them,  by 
the  mildest  instructions,  acquainted  with  themselves. 
They  are  no  fictions !  You  would  think,  while  reading 
them,  you  stood  before  the  unclosed  awfulBooks  of  Fate, 
while  the  whirlwind  of  most  impassioned  life  was  howl- 
ing through  the  leaves,  and  tossing  them  fiercely  to  and 
fro.  The  strength  and  tenderness,  the  power  and 
peacefulness,  of  this  man,  have  so  astonished  and 
transported  me,  that  I  long  vehemently  for  the  time 
when  I  shall  have  it  in  my  power  to  read  farther." 

145 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

"  Bravo ! "  said  Jarno,  holding  out  his  hand,  and 
squeezing  our  friend's.  "  This  is  as  it  should  be !  And 
the  consequences,  which  I  hope  for,  will  likewise  surely 
follow." 

"  I  wish,"  said  Wilhelm,  "  I  could  but  disclose  to 
you  all  that  is  going  on  within  me  even  now.  All  the 
anticipations  I  ever  had  regarding  man  and  his  des- 
tiny, which  have  accompanied  me  from  youth  upwards, 
often  unobserved  by  myself,  I  find  developed  and  ful- 
filled in  Shakespeare's  writings.  It  seems  as  if  he 
cleared  up  every  one  of  our  enigmas  to  us,  though  we 
cannot  say.  Here  or  there  is  the  word  of  solution.  His 
men  appear  like  natural  men,  and  yet  they  are  not. 
These,  the  most  mysterious  and  complex  productions 
of  creation,  here  act  before  us  as  if  they  were  watches, 
whose  dial  plates  and  cases  were  of  crystal,  which 
pointed  out,  according  to  their  use,  the  course  of  the 
hours  and  minutes ;  while,  at  the  same  time,  you  could 
discern  the  combination  of  wheels  and  springs  that 
turned  them,  r^he  few  glances  I  have  cast  over  Shake- 
speare's world  incite  me,  more  than  anything  beside, 
to  quicken  my  footsteps  forward  into  the  actual  world, 
to  mingle  in  the  flood  of  destinies  that  is  suspended  over 
it,  and  at  length,  if  I  shall  prosper,  to  draw  a  few  cups 
from  the  great  ocean  of  true  nature,  and  to  distribute 
them  from  off  the  stage  among  the  thirsting  people  of 
my  native  land."   .   .   . 

Seeing  the  company  so  favorably  disposed,  Wilhelm 
now  hoped  he  might  further  have  it  in  his  power  to 
converse  with  them  on  the  poetic  merit  of  the  plays 
which  might  come  before  them.  "  It  is  not  enough," 
said  he  next  day,  when  they  were  all  again  assembled, 
146 


Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  ''Hamlet" 

"  for  the  actor  merely  to  glance  over  a  dramatic  work, 
to  judge  of  it  bj  his  first  impression,  and  thus,  with- 
out investigation,  to  declare  his  satisfaction  or  dis- 
satisfaction with  it.  Such  things  may  be  allowed  in 
a  spectator,  whose  purpose  it  is  rather  to  be  enter- 
tained and  moved  than  formally  to  criticize.  But  the 
actor,  on  the  other  hand,  should  be  prepared  to  give 
a  reason  for  his  praise  or  censure;  and  how  shall  he 
do  this,  if  he  have  not  taught  himself  to  penetrate 
the  sense,  the  views,  the  feelings  of  his  author?  A  com- 
mon error  is  to  form  a  judgment  of  a  drama  from  a 
single  part  in  it,  and  to  look  upon  this  part  itself 
in  an  isolated  point  of  view,  not  in  its  connection  with 
the  whole.  I  have  noticed  this  within  a  few  days  so 
clearly  in  my  own  conduct  that  I  will  give  you  the 
account  as  an  example,  if  you  please  to  hear  me 
patiently. 

"  You  all  know  Shakespeare's  incomparable  Hamlet; 
our  public  reading  of  it  at  the  castle  yielded  every  one 
of  us  the  greatest  satisfaction.  On  that  occasion  we 
proposed  to  act  the  play;  and  I,  not  knowing  what  I 
undertook,  engaged  to  play  the  prince's  part.  This  I 
conceived  that  I  was  studying,  while  I  began  to  get 
by  heart  the  strongest  passages,  the  soliloquies,  and 
those  scenes  in  which  force  of  soul,  vehemence  and  ele- 
vation of  feeling  have  the  freest  scope,  where  the  agi- 
tated heart  is  allowed  to  display  itself  with  touching 
expressiveness. 

"  I  further  conceived  that  I  was  penetrating  quite 
into  the  spirit  of  the  character,  while  I  endeavored,  as 
it  were,  to  take  upon  myself  the  load  of  deep  melan- 
choly under  which  my  prototype  was  laboring,  and  in 
this  humor  to  pursue  him  through  the  strange  laby- 

147 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

rinths  of  his  caprices  and  his  singularities.  Thus  learn- 
ing, thus  practising,  I  doubted  not  but  I  should  by  and 
bye  become  one  person  with  my  hero. 

"  But  the  farther  I  advanced,  the  more  difficult 
did  it  become  for  me  to  form  any  image  of  the  whole, 
in  its  general  bearings;  till  at  last  it  seemed  as  if  im- 
possible. I  next  went  through  the  entire  piece,  with- 
out interruption;  but  here,  too,  I  found  much  that  I 
could  not  away  with.  At  one  time  the  characters, 
at  another  time  the  manner  of  displaying  them,  seemed 
inconsistent;  and  I  almost  despaired  of  finding  any 
general  tint,  in  which  I  might  present  my  whole  part 
with  all  its  shadings  and  variations.  In  such  devious 
paths  I  toiled,  and  wandered  long  in  vain ;  till  at  length 
a  hope  arose  that  I  might  reach  my  aim  in  quite  a 
new  way. 

"  I  set  about  investigating  every  trace  of  Hamlet's 
character,  as  it  had  shown  itself  before  his  father's 
death;  I  endeavored  to  distinguish  what  in  it  was  inde- 
pendent of  this  mournful  event,  independent  of  the 
terrible  events  that  followed;  and  what  most  probably 
the  young  man  would  have  been  had  no  such  thing  oc- 
curred. 

"  Soft,  and  from  a  noble  stem,  this  royal  flower  had 
sprung  up  under  the  immediate  influences  of  majesty: 
the  idea  of  moral  rectitude  with  that  of  princely  eleva- 
tion, the  feeling  of  the  good  and  dignified  with  the 
consciousness  of  high  birth,  had  in  him  been  unfolded 
simultaneously.  He  was  a  prince,  by  birth  a  prince; 
and  he  wished  to  reign,  only  that  good  men  might  be 
good  without  obstruction.  Pleasing  in  form,  polished 
by  nature,  courteous  from  the  heart,  he  was  meant  to 
be  the  pattern  of  youth  and  the  joy  of  the  world. 
148 


Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  ''Hamleif' 

"  Without  any  prominent  passion,  his  love  for 
Opheha  was  a  still  presentiment  of  sweet  wants.  His 
zeal  in  knightly  accomplishments  was  not  entirely  his 
own:  it  needed  to  be  quickened  and  inflamed  by  praise 
bestowed  on  others  for  excelling  in  them.  Pure  in  sen- 
timent, he  knew  the  honorable-minded,  and  could  prize 
the  rest  which  an  upright  spirit  tastes  on  the  bosom 
of  a  friend.  To  a  certain  degree  he  had  learned  to 
discern  and  value  the  good  and  the  beautiful  in  arts 
and  sciences;  the  mean,  the  vulgar,  was  offensive  to 
him;  and,  if  hatred  could  take  root  in  his  tender  soul, 
it  was  only  so  far  as  to  make  him  properly  despise 
the  false  and  changeful  insects  of  a  court,  and  play 
with  them  in  easy  scorn.  He  was  calm  in  his  temper, 
artless  in  his  conduct,  neither  pleased  with  idleness, 
nor  too  violently  eager  for  employment.  The  routine 
of  a  university  he  seemed  to  continue  when  at  court. 
He  possessed  more  mirth  of  humor  than  of  heart:  he 
was  a  good  companion,  pliant,  courteous,  discreet,  and 
able  to  forget  and  forgive  an  injury,  yet  never  able 
to  unite  himself  with  those  who  overstepped  the  limits 
of  the  right,  the  good,  and  the  becoming. 

"When  we  read  the  piece  again,  you  shall  judge 
whether  I  am  yet  on  the  proper  track.  I  hope  at  least 
to  bring  forward  passages  that  shall  support  my  opin- 
ion in  its  main  points." 

This  delineation  was  received  with  warm  approval; 
the  company  imagined  they  foresaw  that  Hamlet's  man- 
ner of  proceeding  might  now  be  very  satisfactorily  ex- 
plained; they  applauded  this  method  of  penetrating 
into  the  spirit  of  a  writer.  Each  of  them  proposed  to 
himself  to  take  up  some  piece,  and  study  it  on  these 
principles,  and  so  unfold  the  author's  meaning.  .  .  . 

149 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Loving  Shakespeare  as  our  friend  did,  he  failed  not 
to  lead  round  the  conversation  to  the  merits  of  that 
dramatist.  Expressing,  as  he  entertained,  the  live- 
liest hopes  of  the  new  epoch  which  these  exquisite  pro- 
ductions must  form  in  Germany,  he  erelong  introduced 
his  Hamlet,  which  play  had  busied  him  so  much  of  late. 

Serlo  declared  that  he  would  long  ago  have  repre- 
sented the  play  had  it  at  all  been  possible,  and  that  he 
himself  would  willingly  engage  to  act  Polonius.  He 
added,  with  a  smile,  "  An  Ophelia,  too,  will  certainly 
turn  up,  if  we  had  but  a  Prince." 

Wilhelm  did  not  notice  that  Aurelia  seemed  a  little 
hurt  at  her  brother's  sarcasm.  Our  friend  was  in  his 
proper  vein,  becoming  copious  and  didactic,  expound- 
ing how  he  would  have  Hamlet  played.  He  circum- 
stantially delivered  to  his  hearers  the  opinions  we 
before  saw  him  busied  with;  taking  all  the  trouble 
possible  to  make  his  notion  of  the  matter  acceptable, 
skeptical  as  Serlo  showed  himself  regarding  it.  "  Well, 
then,"  said  the  latter  finally,  "  suppose  we  grant  you 
all  this,  what  will  you  explain  by  it.?  " 

"  Much,  everything,"  said  Wilhelm.  "  Conceive  a 
prince  such  as  I  have  painted  him,  and  that  his  father 
suddenly  dies.  Ambition  and  the  love  of  rule  are  not 
the  passions  that  inspire  him.  As  a  king's  son,  he 
would  have  been  contented;  but  now  he  is  first  con- 
strained to  consider  the  difference  which  separates  a 
sovereign  from  a  subject.  The  crown  was  not  heredi- 
tary; yet  his  father's  longer  possession  of  it  would 
have  strengthened  the  pretensions  of  an  only  son, 
and  secured  his  hopes  of  succession.  In  place  of  this, 
he  now  beholds  himself  excluded  by  his  uncle,  in  spite 
of  specious  promises,  most  probably  forever.  He  is 
150 


Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  ''Hamlet" 

now  poor  in  goods  and  favor,  and  a  stranger  in  the 
scene  which  from  youth  he  had  looked  upon  as  his 
inheritance.  His  temper  here  assumes  its  first  mourn- 
ful tinge.  He  feels  that  now  he  is  not  more,  that  he  is 
less  than  a  private  nobleman;  he  offers  himself  as  the 
servant  of  every  one ;  he  is  not  courteous  and  con- 
descending, he  is  needy  and  degraded. 

"  His  past  condition  he  remembers  as  a  vanished 
dream.  It  is  in  vain  that  his  uncle  strives  to  cheer  him, 
to  present  his  situation  in  another  point  of  view.  The 
feeling  of  his  nothingness  will  not  leave  him. 

"  The  second  stroke  that  came  upon  him  wounded 
deeper,  bowed  still  more.  It  was  the  marriage  of  his 
mother.  The  faithful,  tender  son  had  yet  a  mother, 
when  his  father  passed  away.  He  hoped  in  the  com- 
pany of  his  surviving  noble-minded  parent,  to  rever- 
ence the  heroic  form  of  the  departed:  but  his  mother, 
too,  he  loses ;  and  it  is  something  worse  than  death 
that  robs  him  of  her.  The  trustful  image,  which  a 
good  child  loves  to  form  of  its  parents,  is  gone.  With 
the  dead  there  is  no  help,  on  the  living  no  hold.  More- 
over, she  is  a  woman ;  and  her  name  is  Frailty,  like 
that  of  all  her  sex. 

"  Now  only  does  he  feel  completely  bowed  down,  now 
only  orphaned ;  and  no  happiness  of  life  can  repay 
what  he  has  lost.  Not  reflective  or  sorrowful  by 
nature,  reflection  and  sorrow  have  become  for  him  a 
heavy  obligation.  It  is  thus  that  we  see  him  first  enter 
on  the  scene.  I  do  not  think  that  I  have  mixed  aught 
foreign  with  the  play,  or  overcharged  a  single  feature 
of  it." 

Serlo  looked  at  his  sister,  and  said :  "  Did  I  give  thee 
a  false  picture  of  our  friend?     He  begins  well:  he  has 

151 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

still  many  things  to  tell  us,  many  to  persuade  us  of." 
Wilhelm  asseverated  loudly  that  he  meant  not  to  per- 
suade, but  to  convince ;  he  begged  for  another  moment's 
patience. 

"  Figure  to  yourselves  this  youth,"  cried  he,  "  this 
son  of  princes ;  conceive  him  vividly,  bring  his  state 
before  your  eyes  and  then  observe  him  when  he  learns 
that  his  father's  spirit  walks ;  stand  by  him  in  the 
terrors  of  the  night,  when  even  the  venerable  ghost 
appears  before  him.  He  is  seized  with  boundless  hor- 
ror ;  he  speaks  to  the  mysterious  form ;  he  sees  it  beckon 
him;  he  follows  and  hears.  The  fearful  accusation  of 
his  uncle  rings  in  his  ears,  the  summons  to  revenge, 
and  the  piercing,  oft-repeated  prayer,  Remember  me ! 

"  And,  when  the  ghost  has  vanished,  who  is  it  that 
stands  before  us?  A  young  hero  panting  for  venge- 
ance? A  prince  by  birth,  rejoicing  to  be  called  to 
punish  the  usurper  of  his  crown?  No!  trouble  and 
astonishment  take  hold  of  the  solitary  young  man:  he 
grows  bitter  against  smiling  villains,  swears  that  he 
will  not  forget  the  spirit,  and  concludes  with  the  sig- 
nificant ejaculation, — 

"'The  time  is  out  of  joint:  O  cursed  spite. 
That  ever  I  was  born  to  set  it  right!' 

"  In  these  words,  I  imagine,  will  be  found  the  key  to 
Hamlet's  whole  procedure.  To  me  it  is  clear  that 
Shakespeare  meant,  in  the  present  case,  to  represent 
the  effects  of  a  great  action  laid  upon  a  soul  unfit  for 
the  performance  of  it.  In  this  view  the  whole  play 
seems  to  me  to  be  composed.  There  is  an  oak-tree 
planted  in  a  costly  jar,  which  should  have  borne  only 
pleasant  flowers  in  its  bosom:  the  roots  expand,  the 
jar  is  shivered. 
152 


Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  ''Hamlet" 

*'  A  lovely,  pure,  noble,  and  most  moral  nature,  with- 
out the  strength  of  nerve  which  forms  a  hero,  sinks  be- 
neath a  burden  it  cannot  bear  and  must  not  cast  away. 
All  duties  are  holy  for  him:  the  present  is  too  hard. 
Impossibilities  have  been  required  of  him, — not  in  them- 
selves impossibilities,  but  such  for  him.  He  winds  and 
turns,  and  torments  himself;  he  advances  and  recoils; 
is  ever  put  in  mind,  ever  puts  himself  in  mind,  at  last 
does  all  but  lose  his  purpose  from  his  thoughts,  yet 
still  without  recovering  his  peace  of  mind." 

Several  people  entering  interrupted  the  discussion. 
They  were  musical  dilettanti,  who  commonly  assembled 
at  Serlo's  once  a  week,  and  formed  a  little  concert. 
Serlo  himself  loved  music  much:  he  used  to  maintain 
that  a  player  without  taste  for  it  never  could  attain 
a  distinct  conception  and  feeling  of  the  scenic  art.  "  As 
a  man  performs,"  he  would  observe,  "  with  far  more 
ease  and  dignity  when  his  gestures  are  accompanied  and 
guided  by  a  tune ;  so  the  player  ought,  in  idea  as  it 
were,  to  set  to  music  even  his  prose  parts,  that  he  may 
not  monotonously  slight  them  over  in  his  individual 
style,  but  treat  them  in  suitable  alternation  by  time 
and  measure." 

Aurelia  seemed  to  give  but  little  heed  to  what  was 
passing:  at  last  she  conducted  Wilhelm  to'  another 
room;  and  going  to  the  window,  and  looking  out  at 
the  starry  sky,  she  said  to  him,  "  You  have  more  to 
tell  us  about  Hamlet :  I  will  not  hurry  you, — my  brother 
must  hear  it  as  well  as  I ;  but  let  me  beg  to  know  your 
thoughts  about  ^Ophelia." 

"  Of  her  there  cannot  much  be  said,"  he  answered ; 
"  for  a  few  master-strokes  complete  her  character.  The 
whole  being  of  Ophelia  floats  in  sweet  and  ripe  sensa- 

153 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

tion.  Kindness  for  the  prince,  to  whose  hand  she  may 
aspire,  flows  so  spontaneously,  her  tender  heart  obeys 
its  impulses  so  unresistingly,  that  both  father  and 
brother  are  afraid:  both  give  her  warning  harshly  and 
directly.  Decorum,  like  the  thin  lawn  upon  her  bosom, 
cannot  hide  the  soft,  still  movements  of  her  heart:  it, 
on  the  contrarj^,  betrays  them.  Her  fancy  is  smit; 
her  silent  modesty  breathes  amiable  desire;  and  if  the 
friendly  goddess  Opportunity  should  shake  the  tree, 
its  fruit  would  fall." 

"  And  then,"  said  Aurelia,  "  when  she  beholds  herself 
forsaken,  cast  away,  despised;  when  all  is  inverted  in 
the  soul  of  her  crazed  lover,  and  the  highest  changes 
to  the  lowest,  and,  instead  of  the  sweet  cup  of  love, 
he  offers  her  the  bitter  cup  of  woe — " 

"  Her  heart  breaks,"  cried  Wilhelm ;  "  the  whole 
structure  of  her  being  is  loosened  from  its  joinings:  her 
father's  death  strikes  fiercely  against  it,  and  the  fair 
edifice  altogether  crumbles  into  fragments." 

Serlo,  this  moment  entering,  inquired  about  his  sis- 
ter, and,  looking  in  the  book  which  our  friend  had 
hold  of,  cried,  "  So  you  are  again  at  Hamlet?  Very 
good !  Many  doubts  have  arisen  in  me,  which  seem  not 
a  little  to  impair  the  canonical  aspect  of  the  play  as 
you  would  have  it  viewed.  The  English  themselves 
have  admitted  that  its  chief  interest  concludes  with 
the  third  act;  the  last  tw^o  lagging  sorrily  on,  and 
scarcely  uniting  with  the  rest:  and  certainl}^  about  the 
end  it  seems  to  stand  stock-still." 

"  It  is  very  possible,"  said  Wilhelm,  "  that  some  in- 
dividuals of  a  nation,  which  has  so  many  masterpieces 
to  feel  proud  of,  may  be  led  by  prejudice  and  nar- 
rowness of  mind  to  form  false  judgments;  but  this 
154 


Wilhelm  Meistei^'s  Critique  of  "Hamlef 

cannot  hinder  us  from  looking  with  our  own  eyes,  and 
doing  justice  where  we  see  it  due.  I  am  very  far  from 
censuring  the  plan  of  Hamlet:  on  the  other  hand,  I 
believe  there  never  was  a  grander  one  invented ;  nay, 
it  is  not  invented,  it  is  real." 

"  How  do  you  demonstrate  that?  "  inquired  Serlo. 

"  I  will  not  demonstrate  anything,"  said  Wilhelm ; 
"  I  will  merely  show  you  what  my  own  conceptions  of 
it  are." 

Aurelia  raised  herself  from  her  cushion,  leaned  upon 
her  hand,  and  looked  at  Wilhelm,  who,  with  the  firmest 
assurance  that  he  was  in  the  right,  went  on  as  follows : 
"  It  pleases  us,  it  flatters  us,  to  see  a  hero  acting  on 
his  own  strength,  loving  and  hating  at  the  bidding 
of  his  heart,  undertaking  and  completing  casting  every 
obstacle  aside,  and  attaining  some  great  end.  Poets 
and  historians  would  willingly  persuade  us  that  so 
proud  a  lot  may  fall  to  man.  In  Hamlet  we  are  taught 
another  lesson;  the  hero  is  without  a  plan,  but  the 
play  is  full  of  plan.  Here  we  have  no  villain  punished 
on  some  self-conceived  and  rigidly  accomplished  scheme 
of  vengeance.  A  horrid  deed  is  done ;  It  rolls  along  with 
all  its  consequences,  dragging  with  it  even  the  guilt- 
less :  the  guilty  perpetrator  would,  as  it  seems,  evade  the 
abyss  made  ready  for  him;  yet  he  plunges  in,  at  the 
very  point  by  which  he  thinks  he  shall  escape  and  hap- 
pily complete  his  course. 

"  For  it  is  the  property  of  crime  to  extend  its  mis- 
chief over  innocence,  as  it  is  of  virtue  to  extend  its 
blessings  over  many  that  deserve  them  not ;  while  fre- 
quently the  author  of  the  one  or  the  other  Is  not 
punished  or  rewarded  at  all.  Here  in  this  play  of  ours, 
how  strange !     The  Pit  of  darkness  sends  its  spirit  and 

155 


Goetlie's  Literary  Essays 

demands  revenge :  in  vain  !  All  circumstances  tend  one 
way,  and  hurry  to  revenge :  in  vain !  Neither  earthly 
nor  infernal  thing  may  bring  about  what  is  reserved 
for  Fate  alone.  The  hour  of  judgment  comes;  the 
wicked  falls  with  the  good;  one  race  is  mowed  away, 
that  another  may  spring  up." 

After  a  pause,  in  which  they  looked  at  one  an- 
other, Serlo  said,  "  You  pay  no  great  compliment  to 
Providence,  in  thus  exalting  Shakespeare;  and  be- 
sides, it  appears  to  me,  that  for  the  honor  of  your  poet, 
as  others  for  the  honor  of  Providence,  you  ascribe  to 
him  an  object  and  a  plan  such  as  he  himself  has  never 
thought  of." 

"  Let  me  also  put  a  question,"  said  Aurelia.  "  I 
have  looked  at  Ophelia's  part  again:  I  am  contented 
with  it,  and  confident  that,  under  certain  circumstances, 
I  could  play  it.  But  tell  me,  should  not  the  poet  have 
furnished  the  insane  maiden  with  another  sort  of  songs  ? 
Could  not  some  fragments  out  of  melancholy  ballads  be 
selected  for  this  purpose?  Why  put  double  meanings 
and  lascivious  insipidities  in  the  mouth  of  this  noble- 
minded  girl?  " 

"  Dear  friend,"  said  Wilhelm,  "  even  here  I  cannot 
yield  you  one  iota.  In  these  singularities,  in  this  ap- 
parent impropriety,  a  deep  sense  is  hid.  Do  we  not 
understand  from  the  very  first  what  the  mind  of  the 
good,  soft-hearted  girl  was  busied  with?  Silently  she 
lived  within  herself,  yet  she  scarce  concealed  her  wishes, 
her  longing:  and  how  often  may  she  have  attempted, 
like  an  unskilful  nurse,  to  lull  her  senses  to  repose 
with  songs  which  only  kept  them  more  awake?  But 
at  last,  when  her  self-command  is  altogether  gone,  when 
the  secrets  of  her  heart  are  hovering  on  her  tongue, 
156 


Wilhelm  Meistefs  Critique  of  ''Hamlet" 

that  tongue  betrays  her;  and  in  the  innocence  of  in- 
sanity she  solaces  herself,  unmindful  of  king  or  queen, 
with  .the  echo  of  her  loose  and  well-beloved  songs, — '  To- 
morrow is  Saint  Valentine's  Day,'  and  '  By  Gis  and  by 
Saint  Charity.'  .  .   ." 

"  I  must  admit  your  picture  of  Ophelia  to  be  just," 
continued  she ;  "  I  cannot  now  misunderstand  the  ob- 
ject of  the  poet:  I  must  pity;  though,  as  you  paint  her, 
I  shall  rather  pity  her  than  sympathize  with  her.  But 
allow  me  here  to  offer  a  remark,  which  in  these  few 
days  you  have  frequently  suggested  to  me.  I  observe 
with  admiration  the  correct,  keen,  penetrating  glance 
with  which  you  judge  of  poetry,  especially  dramatic 
poetry :  the  deepest  abysses  of  invention  are  not  hidden 
from  you,  the  finest  touches  of  representation  cannot 
escape  you.  Without  ever  having  viewed  the  objects 
in  nature,  you  recognize  the  truth  of  their  images :  there 
seems,  as  it  were,  a  presentiment  of  all  the  universe  to 
lie  in  you,  which  by  the  harmonious  touch  of  poetry  is 
awakened  and  unfolded.  For  in  truth,"  continued  she, 
"  from  without,  you  receive  not  much :  I  have  scarcely 
seen  a  person  that  so  little  knew,  so  totally  misknew, 
the  people  he  lived  with,  as  you  do.  Allow  me  to  say 
it:  in  hearing  you  expound  the  mysteries  of  Shake- 
speare, one  would  think  you  had  just  descended  from 
a  synod  of  the  gods,  and  had  listened  there  while  they 
were  taking  counsel  how  to  form  men;  in  seeing  you 
transact  with  your  fellows,  I  could  imagine  you  to  be 
the  first  large-born  child  of  the  Creation,  standing 
agape,  and  gazing  with  strange  wonderment  and  edify- 
ing good  nature  at  lions  and  apes  and  sheep  and  ele- 
phants, and  true-heartedly   addressing  them   as   your 

157 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

equals,  simply  because  they  were  there,  and  in  motion 
like  yourself." 

"  The  feeling  of  my  ignorance  in  this  respect,"  said 
Wilhelm,  "  often  gives  me  pain ;  and  I  should  thank 
you,  worthy  friend,  if  you  would  help  me  to  get  a 
little  better  insight  into  life.  From  youth,  I  have 
been  accustomed  to  direct  the  eyes  of  my  spirit  inwards 
rather  than  outwards ;  and  hence  it  is  very  natural  that, 
to  a  certain  extent,  I  should  be  acquainted  with  man, 
while  of  men  I  have  not  the  smallest  knowledge.  .  .  ." 

One  of  the  conditions  under  which  our  friend  had 
gone  upon  the  stage  was  not  acceded  to  by  Serlo  with- 
out some  limitations.  Wilhelm  had  required  that  Ham- 
let  should  be  played  entire  and  unmutilated:  the  other 
had  agreed  to  this  strange  stipulation,  in  so  far  as  it 
was  possible.  On  this  point  they  had  many  a  contest ; 
for  as  to  what  was  possible  or  not  possible,  and  what 
parts  of  the  piece  could  be  omitted  without  mutilating 
it,  the  two  were  of  very  different  opinions. 

Wilhelm  was  still  in  that  happy  season  when  one 
cannot  understand  how,  in  the  woman  one  loves,  in  the 
writer  one  honors,  there  should  be  anything  defective. 
The  feeling  they  excite  in  us  is  so  entire,  so  accordant 
with  itself,  that  we  cannot  help  attributing  the  same 
perfect  harmony  to  the  objects  themselves.  Serlo 
again  was  willing  to  discriminate,  perhaps  too  willing: 
his  acute  understanding  could  usually  discern  in  any 
work  of  art  nothing  but  a  more  or  less  imperfect  whole. 
He  thought  that,  as  pieces  usually  stood,  there  was 
little  reason  to  be  chary  about  meddling  with  them; 
that  of  course  Shakespeare,  and  particularly  Hamlet^ 
would  need  to  suffer  much  curtailment. 
158 


Wilhelm  Meistefs  Critique  of  ^'Hamlef 

But,  when  Serlo  talked  of  separating  the  wheat  from 
the  chaff,  Wilhelm  would  not  hear  of  it.  "  It  is  not 
chaff* and  wheat  together,"  said  he:  "  it  is  a  trunk  with 
boughs,  twigs,  leaves,  buds,  blossoms,  and  fruit.  Is  not 
the  one  there  with  the  others,  and  by  means  of  them?  " 
To  which  Serlo  would  reply  that  people  did  not  bring 
a  whole  tree  upon  the  table ;  that  the  artist  was  re- 
quired to  present  his  guests  with  silver  apples  in  plat- 
ters of  silver.  They  exhsTusted  their  invention  in  simili- 
tudes, and  their  opinions  seemed  still  farther  to  diverge. 

Our  friend  was  on  the  borders  of  despair  when  on 
one  occasion,  after  much  debating,  Serlo  counseled  him 
to  take  the  simple  plan, — to  make  a  brief  resolution,  to 
grasp  his  pen,  to  peruse  the  tragedy ;  dashing  out  what- 
ever would  not  answer,  compressing  several  personages 
into  one :  and  if  he  was  not  skilled  in  such  proceedings, 
or  had  not  heart  enough  for  going  through  with  them, 
he  might  leave  the  task  to  him,  the  manager,  who  would 
engage  to  make  short  work  with  it. 

**  That  is  not  our  bargain,"  answered  Wilhelm. 
"  How  can  you,  with  all  your  taste,  show  so  much 
levity?" 

"  My  friend,"  cried  Serlo,  "  you  yourself  will  ere- 
long feel  it  and  show  it.  I  know  too  well  how  shock- 
ing such  a  mode  of  treating  works  is :  perhaps  it  never 
was  allowed  on  any  theatre  till  now.  But  where,  indeed, 
was  ever  one  so  slighted  as  ours?  Authors  force  us  on 
this  wretched  clipping  system,  and  the  public  tolerates 
it.  How  many  pieces  have  we,  pray,  which  do  not 
overstep  the  measure  of  our  numbers,  of  our  decora- 
tions and  theatrical  machinery,  of  the  proper  time,  of 
the  fit  alternation  of  dialogue,  and  the  physical  strength 
of  the  actor?     And  yet  we  are  to  play,  and  play,  and 

159 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

constantly  give  novelties.  Ought  we  not  to  profit  by 
our  privilege,  then,  since  we  accomplish  just  as  much 
by  mutilated  works  as  by  entire  ones  ?  It  is  the  public 
itself  that  grants  the  privilege.  Few  Germans,  perhaps 
few  men  of  any  modern  nation,  have  a  proper  sense  of 
an  aesthetic  whole : — they  praise  and  blame  by  passages ; 
they  are  charmed  by  passages ;  and  who  has  greater 
reason  to  rejoice  at  this  than  actors,  since  the  stage 
is  ever  but  a  patched  and  piece-work  matter?  " 

"Is!"  cried  Wilhelm ;  "but  must  it  ever  be  so? 
Must  everything  that  is  continue?  Convince  me  not 
that  you  are  right,  for  no  power  on  earth  should  force 
me  to  abide  by  any  contract  which  I  had  concluded 
with  the  grossest  misconceptions." 

Serlo  gave  a  merry  turn  to  the  business,  and  per- 
suaded him  to  review  once  more  the  many  conversations 
they  had  had  together  about  Hamlet^  and  himself  to 
invent  some  means  of  properly  reforming  the  piece. 

After  a  few  days,  which  he  had  spent  alone,  our 
friend  returned  with  a  cheerful  look.  "  I  am  much 
mistaken,"  cried  he,  "  if  I  have  not  now  discovered 
how  the  whole  is  to  be  managed:  nay,  I  am  convinced 
that  Shakespeare  himself  would  have  arranged  it  so, 
had  not  his  mind  been  too  exclusively  directed  to  the 
ruling  interest,  and  perhaps  misled  by  the  novels  which 
furnished  him  with  his  materials." 

"  Let  us  hear,"  said  Serlo,  placing  himself  with  an 
air  of  solemnity  upon  the  sofa :  "  I  will  listen  calmly, 
but  judge  with  rigor." 

"  I  am  not  afraid  of  you,"  said  Wilhelm ;  "  only  hear 
me.  In  the  composition  of  this  play,  after  the  most 
accurate  investigation  and  the  most  mature  reflection, 
I  distinguish  two  classes  of  objects.  The  first  are 
160 


Wilhelm  Meister^s  Critique  of  ^'Hamleif' 

the  grand  internal  relations  of  the  persons  and  events, 
the  powerful  effects  which  arise  from  the  characters 
and  proceedings  of  the  main  figures :  these,  I  hold,  are 
individually  excellent ;  and  the  order  in  which  they  are 
presented  cannot  be  improved.  No  kind  of  interfer- 
ence must  be  suffered  to  destroy  them,  or  even  essen- 
tially to  change  their  form.  These  are  the  things  which 
stamp  themselves  deep  into  the  soul,  which  all  men  long 
to  see,  which  no  one  dares  to  meddle  with.  Accordingly, 
I  understand,  they  have  almost  wholly  been  retained 
in  all  our  German  theatres.  But  our  countrymen  have 
erred,  in  my  opinion,  with  regard  to  the  second  class 
of  objects,  which  may  be  observed  in  this  tragedy:  I 
allude  to  the  external  relations  of  the  persons,  whereby 
they  are  brought  from  place  to  place,  or  combined  in 
various  ways,  by  certain  accidental  incidents.  These 
they  have  looked  upon  as  very  unimportant;  have 
spoken  of  them  only  in  passing,  or  left  them  out  alto- 
gether. Now,  indeed,  it  must  be  owned,  these  threads 
are  slack  and  slender;  yet  they  run  through  the  entire 
piece,  and  bind  together  much  that  would  otherwise  fall 
asunder,  and  does  actually  fall  asunder,  when  you  cut 
them  off,  and  imagine  you  have  done  enough  and  more, 
if  you  have  left  the  ends  hanging. 

"  Among  these  external  relations  I  include  the  dis- 
turbances in  Norw^ay,  the  war  with  young  Fortinbras, 
the  embassy  to  his  uncle,  the  settling  of  that  feud,  the 
march  of  young  Fortinbras  to  Poland,  and -his  coming 
back  at  the  end;  of  the  same  sort  are  Horatio's  return 
from  Wittenberg,  Hamlet's  wish  to  go  thither,  the 
journey  of  Laertes  to  France,  his  return,  the  despatch 
of  Hamlet  into  England,  his  capture  by  pirates,  the 
death  of  the   two  courtiers  by  the  letter  which  they 

161 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

carried.  All  these  circumstances  and  events  would  be 
very  fit  for  expanding  and  lengthening  a  novel;  but 
here  they  injure  exceedingly  the  unity  of  the  piece, 
particularly  as  the  hero  has  no  plan,  and  are,  in  con- 
sequence, entirely  out  of  place." 

"  For  once  in  the  right !  "  cried  Serlo. 

"  Do  not  interrupt  me,"  answered  Wilhelm ;  "  per- 
haps you  will  not  always  think  me  right.  These  errors 
are  like  temporary  props  of  an  edifice:  they  must  not 
be  removed  till  we  have  built  a  firm  wall  in  their  stead. 
My  project,  therefore,  is  not  at  all  to  change  those  first- 
mentioned  grand  situations,  or  at  least  as  much  as  pos- 
sible to  spare  them,  both  collectively  and  individually; 
but  with  respect  to  these  external,  single,  dissipated, 
and  dissipating  motives,  to  cast  them  all  at  once  away, 
and  substitute  a  solitary  one  instead  of  them." 

"  And  this  ?  "  inquired  Serlo,  springing  up  from  his 
recumbent  posture. 

"  It  lies  in  the  piece  itself,"  answered  Wilhelm,  "  only 
I  employ  it  rightly.  There  are  disturbances  in  Nor- 
way.   You  shall  hear  my  plan,  and  try  it. 

"  After  the  death  of  Hamlet's  father,  the  Nor- 
wegians, lately  conquered,  grow  unruly.  The  viceroy 
of  that  country  sends  his  son,  Horatio,  an  old  school- 
friend  of  Hamlet's,  and  distinguished  above  every  other 
for  his  bravery  and  prudence,  to  Denmark,  to  press  for- 
ward the  equipment  of  the  fleet,  which,  under  the  new 
luxurious  king,  proceeds  but  slowly.  Horatio  has 
known  the  former  king,  having  fought  in  his  battles, 
having  even  stood  in  favor  with  him, — a  circumstance 
by  which  the  first  ghost-scene  will  be  nothing  injured. 
The  new  sovereign  gives  Horatio  audience  and  sends 
Laertes  into  Norway  with  intelligence  that  the  fleet 
162 


Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  ''Hamlef 

will  soon  arrive;  whilst  Horatio  is  commissioned  to 
accelerate  the  preparation  of  it:  and  the  Queen,  on 
the  ather  hand,  will  not  consent  that  Hamlet,  as  he 
wishes,  should  go  to  sea  along  with  him." 

"  Heaven  be  praised !  "  cried  Serlo  ;  "  we  shall  now 
get  rid  of  Wittenberg  and  the  university,  which  was 
always  a  sorry  piece  of  business.  I  think  your  idea 
extremely  good;  for,  except  these  two  distant  objects, 
Norway  and  the  fleet,  the  spectator  will  not  be  re- 
quired to  fancy  anything:  the  rest  he  will  see;  the  rest 
takes  place  before  him;  whereas  his  imagination,  on 
the  other  plan,  was  hunted  over  all  the  world." 

"  You  easily  perceive,"  said  Wilhelm,  "  how  I  shall 
contrive  to  keep  the  other  parts  together.  When  Ham- 
let tells  Horatio  of  his  uncle's  crime,  Horatio  counsels 
him  to  go  to  Norway  in  his  company,  to  secure  the 
affections  of  the  army,  and  return  in  warlike  force. 
Hamlet  also  is  becoming  dangerous  to  the  King  and 
Queen ;  they  find  no  readier  method  of  deliverance  than 
to  send  him  in  the  fleet,  with  Roscncrantz  and  Guilden- 
stern  to  be  spies  upon  him ;  and,  as  Laertes  in  the  mean- 
time comes  from  France,  they  determine  that  this  youth, 
exasperated  even  to  murder,  shall  go  after  him.  Un- 
favorable winds  detain  the  fleet :  Hamlet  returns ;  for 
his  wandering  through  the  churchyard,  perhaps  some 
lucky  motive  may  be  thought  of;  his  meeting  with 
Laertes  in  Ophelia's  grave  is  a  grand  moment,  which 
we  must  not  part  with.  After  this,  the  King  resolves 
that  it  is  better  to  get  quit  of  Hamlet  on  the  spot: 
the  festival  of  his  departure,  the  pretended  reconcile- 
ment with  Laertes,  are  now  solemnized ;  on  which  occa- 
sion knightly  sports  are  held,  and  Laertes  fights  with 
Hamlet.     Without  the  four  corpses,  I  cannot  end  the 

163 


Goethe^s  Literary  Essays 

play :  no  one  must  survive.  The  right  of  popular  elec- 
tion now  again  comes  in  force ;  and  Hamlet,  while  dying, 
gives  his  vote  to  Horatio." 

"  Quick !  quick !"  said  Serlo,  "  sit  down  and  work 
the  play:  your  plan  has  my  entire  approbation;  only 
let  not  your  zeal  evaporate." 

Wilhelm  had  already  been  for  some  time  busied  with 
translating  Hamlet;  making  use,  as  he  labored,  of  Wie- 
land's  spirited  performance,  through  which  he  had  first 
become  acquainted  with  Shakespeare.  What  had  been 
omitted  in  Wieland's  work  he  replaced,  and  had  se- 
cured a  complete  version,  at  the  very  time  when  Serlo 
and  he  were  pretty  well  agreed  about  the  way  of  treat- 
ing it.  He  now  began,  according  to  his  plan,  to  cut 
out  and  insert,  to  separate  and  unite,  to  alter,  and 
often  to  restore ;  for,  satisfied  as  he  was  with  his  own 
conception,  it  still  appeared  to  him  as  if,  in  executing 
it,  he  were  but  spoiling  the  original. 

When  all  was  finished,  he  read  his  work  to  Serlo 
and  the  rest.  They  declared  themselves  exceedingly 
contented  with  it :  Serlo,  in  particular,  made  many  flat- 
tering observations. 

"You  have  felt  very  justly,"  said  he,  among  other 
things,  "  that  some  external  circumstances  must  accom- 
pany this  play,  but  that  they  must  be  simpler  than 
those  which  the  great  poet  has  employed.  What  takes 
place  without  the  theatre,  what  the  spectator  does  not 
see  but  must  imagine,  is  like  a  background,  in  front 
of  which  the  acting  figures  move.  Your  large  and  sim- 
ple prospect  of  the  fleet  and  Norway  will  do  much  to 
improve  the  play:  if  this  were  altogether  taken  from 
it,  we  should  have  but  a  family  scene  remaining;  and 
164 


Wilhelm  M cisterns  Critique  of  "Hamlef 

the  great  idea  that  here  a  kingly  house,  by  internal 
crimes  and  incongruities,  goes  down  to  ruin,  would 
not  be*  presented  with  its  proper  dignity.  But  if  the 
former  background  were  left  standing,  so  manifold,  so 
fluctuating  and  confused,  it  would  hurt  the  impression 
of  the  figures." 

AVilhelm  again  took  Shakespeare's  part;  alleging 
that  he  wrote  for  islanders,  for  Englishmen,  who  gener- 
ally in  the  distance  were  accustomed  to  see  little  else 
than  ships  and  voyages,  the  coast  of  France  and  priva- 
teers ;  and  thus  what  perplexed  and  distracted  others 
was  to  them  quite  natural. 

Serlo  assented ;  and  both  were  of  opinion  that,  as  the 
play  was  now  to  be  produced  upon  the  German  stage, 
this  more  serious  and  simple  background  was  the  best 
adapted  for  the  German  mind. 

The  parts  had  been  distributed  before:  Serlo  under- 
took Polonius ;  Aurelia,  Ophelia ;  Laertes  was  already 
designated  by  his  name;  a  young,  thick-set,  jolly  new- 
comer was  to  be  Horatio ;  the  King  and  Ghost  alone 
occasioned  some  perplexity,  for  both  of  these  no  one 
but  Old  Boisterous  remaining.  Serlo  proposed  to  make 
the  Pedant,  King;  but  against  this  our  friend  pro- 
tested in  the  strongest  terms.  They  could  resolve  on 
nothing. 

Wilhelm  had  also  allowed  both  Rosencrantz  and 
Guildenstern  to  continue  in  his  play.  "  Why  not  com- 
press them  into  one.^"  said  Serlo.  "This  abbrevia- 
tion will  not  cost  you  much." 

"  Heaven  keep  me  from  all  such  curtailments !  "  an- 
swered Wilhelm ;  "  they  destroy  at  once  the  sense  and 
the  effect.  What  these  two  persons  are  and  do  it  is 
impossible  to  represent  by  one.     In   such  small  mat- 

165 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

ters  we  discover  Shakespeare's  greatness.  These  s 
approaches,  this  smirking  and  bowing,  this  assenting, 
wheedling,  flattering,  this  whisking  agihty,  this  wagging 
•  of  the  tail,  this  allncss  and  emptiness,  this  legal  knav- 
ery, this  ineptitude  and  insipidity, — how  can  they  be 
expressed  by  a  single  man?  There  ought  to  be  at  least 
a  dozen  of  these  people,  if  they  could  be  had ;  for  it  is 
only  in  society  that  they  are  anything;  they  are  so- 
ciety itself;  and  Shakespeare  showed  no  little  wisdom 
and  discernment  in  bringing  in  a  pair  of  them.  Be- 
sides, I  need  them  as  a  couple  that  may  be  contrasted 
with  the  single,  noble,  excellent  Horatio.  .   .  ." 

Though  in  this  remolding  of  Hamlet  many  charac- 
ters had  been  cut  off,  a  sufficient  number  of  them  still 
remained, — a  number  which  the  company  was  scarcely 
adequate  to  meet. 

"  If  this  is  the  way  of  it,"  said  Serlo,  "  our  prompter 
himself  must  issue  from  his  den,  and  mount  the  stage, 
and  become  a  personage  like  one  of  us.  ,  .  ." 

"  The  very  man ! "  exclaimed  our  friend,  "  the  very 
man !  What  a  fortunate  discovery !  We  have  now  the 
proper  hand  for  delivering  the  passage  of  '  The  rugged 
Pyrrhus.'  " 

"  One  requires  your  eagerness,"  said  Serlo,  "  before 
he  can  employ  every  object  in  the  use  it  was  meant 
for." 

"  In  truth,"  said  Wilhelm,  "  I  was  very  much  afraid 
we  should  be  obliged  to  leave  this  passage  out:  the 
omission  would  have  lamed  the  whole  play." 

"  Well !     That  is   what   I  cannot  understand,"   ob- 
served Aurelia. 
166 


Wilhehn  Meister's  Critique  of  ''Hamlet" 

"  I  hope  you  will  erelong  be  of  my  opinion,"  an- 
swered Willielm.  "  Shakespeare  has  introduced  these 
traveling  players  with  a  double  purpose.  The  person 
who  recites  the  death  of  Priam  with  such  feeling,  in 
the  -first  place,  makes  a  deep  impression  on  the  prince 
himself;  he  sharpens  the  conscience  of  the  wavering 
youth:  and,  accordingly,  this  scene  becomes  a  prelude 
to  that  other,  where,  in  the  second  place,  the  little  play 
produces  such  effect  upon  the  King.  Hamlet  sees  him- 
self reproved  and  put  to  shame  by  the  player,  who  feels 
so  deep  a  sympathy  in  foreign  and  fictitious  woes;  and 
the  thought  of  making  an  experiment  upon  the  con- 
science of  his  stepfather  is  in  consequence  suggested  to 
him.  What  a  royal  monologue  is  that  which  ends  the 
second  act !     How  charming  it  will  be  to  speak  it ! 

"  *  Oh,  what  a  rogue  and  peasant  slave  am  I ! 
Is  it  not  monstrous  that  this  player  here. 
But  in  a  fiction,  in  a  dream  of  passion. 
Could  force  his  soul  so  to  his  own  conceit. 
That,  from  her  working,  all  his  visage  wann'd; 
Tears  in  his  eyes,  distraction  in's  aspect, 
A  broken  voice,  and  his  whole  function  suiting 
With  forms  to  his  conceit?  and  all  for  nothing! 
For  Hecuba! 

What's  Hecuba  to  him,  or  he  to  Hecuba, 
That  he  should  weep  for  her  ?'"... 

In  particular,  one  evening,  the  manager  was  very 
merry  in  speaking  of  the  part  of  Polonius,  and  how  he 
meant  to  take  it  up.  "  I  engage,"  said  he,  "  on  this 
occasion,  to  present  a  very  meritorious  person  in  his 
best  aspect.  The  repose  and  security  of  this  old  gen- 
tleman, his  emptiness  and  his  significance,  his  exterior 
gracefulness  and  interior  meanness,  his  frankness  and 
sycophancy,  his  sincere  roguery  and  deceitful  truth,  I 
will  introduce  with  all  due  elegance  in  their  fit  propor- 

167 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

tions.  This  respectable,  graj-haired,  enduring,  time- 
serving half-knave,  I  will  represent  in  the  most  courtly 
style:  the  occasional  roughness  and  coarseness  of  our 
author's  strokes  will  further  m.e  here.  I  will  speak  like 
a  book  when  I  am  prepared  beforehand,  and  like  an 
ass  when  I  utter  the  overflowings  of  my  heart.  I  will 
be  insipid  and  absurd  enough  to  chime  in  with  every 
one,  and  acute  enough  never  to  observe  when  people 
make  a  mock  of  me.  I  have  seldom  taken  up  a  part 
with  so  much  zeal  and  roguishness." 

"  Could  I  but  hope  as  much  from  mine ! "  exclaimed 
Aurclia.  "  I  have  neither  youth  nor  softness  enough  to 
be  at  home  in  this  character.  One  thing  alone  I  am 
too  sure  of, — the  feeling  that  turns  Ophelia's  brain, 
I  shall  not  want." 

"  We  must  not  take  the  matter  up  so  strictly,"  said 
our  friend.  "  For  my  share,  I  am  certain  that  the 
wish  to  act  the  character  of  Hamlet  has  led  me  ex- 
ceedingly astray  throughout  my  study  of  the  play. 
And  now,  the  more  I  look  into  the  part,  the  more  clearly 
do  I  see  that,  in  my  whole  form  and  physiognomy,  there 
is  not  one  feature  such  as  Shakespeare  meant  for  Ham- 
let. When  I  consider  with  what  nicety  the  various  cir- 
cumstances are  adapted  to  each  other,  I  can  scarcely 
hope  to  produce  even  a  tolerable  effect." 

"  You  are  entering  on  your  new  career  with  be- 
coming conscientiousness,"  said  Serlo.  "  The  actor 
fits  himself  to  his  part  as  he  can,  and  the  part  to  him 
as  it  must.  But  how  has  Shakespeare  drawn  his  Ham- 
let?    Is  he  so  utterly  unlike  you?  " 

"  In  the  first  place,"  answered  Wilhelm,  "  he  is  fair- 
haired." 
168 


Wilkehn  Meistefs  Critique  of  ''Hamlef 

"  That  I  call  far-fetched,"  observed  Aurelia.  "  How 
do  jou  infer  that?  " 

"  As  a  Dane,  as  a  Northman,  he  is  fair-haired  and 
blue-eyed  by  descent." 

"And  3'OU  think  Shakespeare  had  this  in  view?" 

"  I  do  not  find  it  specially  expressed ;  but,  by  com- 
parison of  passages,  I  think  it  incontestable.  The  fenc- 
ing tires  him ;  the  sweat  is  running  from  his  brow ;  and 
the  Queen  remarks,  '  He's  fat,  and  scant  of  breath.* 
Can  you  conceive  him  to  be  otherwise  than  plump  and 
fair-haired?  Brown-complexioned  people,  in  their 
3^outh,  are  seldom  plump.  And  does  not  his  wavering 
melancholy,  his  soft  lamenting,  his  irresolute  activity, 
accord  with  such  a  figure?  From  a  dark-haired  young 
man,  you  would  look  for  more  decision  and  impetu- 
osity." 

"  You  are  spoiling  my  imagination,"  cried  Aurelia ; 
"  away  with  your  fat  Hamlets !  Do  not  set  your  well- 
fed  prince  before  us !  Give  us  rather  any  succedanewm 
that  will  move  us,  will  delight  us.  The  intention  of  the 
author  is  of  less  importance  to  us  than  our  own  en- 
joyment,  and  we  need   a   charm  that   is   adapted  for 


One  evening  a  dispute  arose  among  our  friends  about 
the  novel  and  the  drama,  and  which  of  them  deserved 
the  preference.  Serlo  said  it  was  a  fruitless  and  mis- 
understood debate:  both  might  be  superior  in  their 
kinds,  only  each  must  keep  within  the  limits  proper 
to  it. 

"  About  their  limits  and  their  kinds,"  said  Wilhelm, 
''  I  confess  myself  not  altogether  clear." 

169 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

"  Who  is  so  ?  "  said  the  other ;  "  and  yet  perhaps  it 
were  worth  while  to  come  a  little  closer  to  the  busi- 
ness." 

They  conversed  together  long  upon  the  matter;  and, 
in  fine,  the  following  was  nearly  the  result  of  their 
discussion : — 

"  In  the  novel  as  well  as  in  the  drama,  it  is  human 
nature  and  human  action  that  we  see.  The  difference 
between  these  sorts  of  fiction  lies  not  merely  in  their 
outward  form, — not  merely  in  the  circumstance  that 
the  personages  of  the  one  are  made  to  speak,  while  those 
of  the  other  have  commonly  their  history  narrated. 
Unfortunately  many  dramas  are  but  novels  which  pro- 
ceed by  dialogue;  and  it  would  not  be  impossible  to 
write  a  drama  in  the  shape  of  letters. 

"  But,  in  the  novel,  it  is  chiefly  sentiments  and  events 
that  are  exhibited;  in  the  drama,  it  is  characters  and 
deeds.  The  novel  must  go  slowly  forward;  and  the 
sentiments  of  the  hero,  by  some  means  or  another,  must 
restrain  the  tendency  of  the  whole  to  unfold  itself  and 
to  conclude.  The  drama,  on  the  other  hand,  must 
hasten ;  and  the  character  of  the  hero  must  press  for- 
ward to  the  end :  it  does  not  restrain,  but  is  restrained. 
The  novel-hero  must  be  suffering, — at  least  he  must  not 
in  a  high  degree  be  active ;  in  the  dramatic  one,  we  look 
for  activity  and  deeds.  Grandison,  Clarissa,  Pamela, 
the  Vicar  of  Wakefield,  Tom  Jones  himself,  are,  if  not 
suffering,  at  least  retarding,  personages ;  and  the  in- 
cidents are  all  in  some  sort  modeled  by  their  sentiments. 
In  the  drama  the  hero  models  nothing  by  himself;  all 
things  withstand  him ;  and  he  clears  and  casts  away  the 
hindrances  from  off  his  path,  or  else  sinks  under 
them." 
170 


Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  '"Hamlef" 

Our  friends  were  also  of  opinion  that,  in  the  novel, 
some  degree  of  scope  may  be  allowed  to  Chance,  but 
that. it  must  always  be  led  and  guided  by  the  senti- 
ments of  the  personages ;  on  the  other  hand,  that  Fate, 
which,  by  means  of  outward,  unconnected  circum- 
stances, proceeds  to  an  unforeseen  catastrophe,  can 
have  place  only  in  the  drama ;  that  Chance  may  produce 
pathetic  situations,  but  never  tragic  ones ;  Fate,  on  the 
other  hand,  ought  always  to  be  terrible, — and  is,  in  the 
highest  sense,  tragic,  when  it  brings  into  a  ruinous  con- 
catenation the  guilty  man  and  the  guiltless  that  was  un- 
concerned with  him. 

These  considerations  led  them  back  to  the  play  of 
Hamlet,  and  the  peculiarities  of  its  composition.  The 
hero  in  this  case,  it  was  observed,  is  endowed  more  prop- 
erly with  sentiments  than  with  a  character :  it  is  events 
alone  that  push  him  on,  and  accordingly  the  play  has 
in  some  measure  the  expansion  of  a  novel.  But  as  it  is 
Fate  that  draws  the  plan,  as  the  story  issues  from  a 
deed  of  terror,  the  work  is  tragic  in  the  highest  sense, 
and  admits  of  no  other  than  a  tragic  end.  .  .  . 

The  necessary  preparations  for  scenery  and  dresses, 
and  whatever  else  was  requisite,  were  now  proceeding. 
In  regard  to  certain  scenes  and  passages,  our  friend 
had  whims  of  his  own,  which  Serlo  humored,  partly  in 
consideration  of  their  bargain,  partly  from  conviction, 
and  because  he  hoped  by  these  civilities  to  gain  Wil- 
helm, and  to  lead  him  according  to  his  own  purposes 
the  more  implicitly  in  time  to  come. 

Thus,  for  example,  the  King  and  Queen  were,  at  the 
first  audience,  to  appear  sitting  on  the  throne,  with 
the  courtiers  at  the  sides,  and  Hamlet  standing  undis- 

171 


Goethe^s  Literary  Essays 

tinguished  in  the  crowd.  "  Hamlet,"  said  he,  "  muso 
keep  himself  quiet ;  his  sable  dress  will  sufficiently  point 
him  out.  He  should  rather  shun  remark  than  seek  it. 
Not  tiU  the  audience  is  ended,  and  the  King  speaks 
with  him  as  with  a  son,  should  he  advance,  and  allow 
the  scene  to  take  its  course." 

A  formidable  obstacle  remained,  in  regard  to  the  two 
pictures  which  Hamlet  so  passionately  refers  to  in  the 
scene  with  his  mother.  "  We  ought,"  said  Wilhelra, 
"  to  have  both  of  them  visible,  at  full  length,  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  chamber,  near  the  main  door ;  and  the  former 
king  must  be  clad  in  armor,  like  the  Ghost,  and  hang 
at  the  side  where  it  enters.  I  could  wish  that  the  figure 
held  its  right  hand  in  a  commanding  attitude,  were 
somewhat  turned  away,  and,  as  it  were,  looked  over  its 
shoulder,  that  so  it  might  perfectly  resemble  the  Ghost 
at  the  moment  when  he  issues  from  the  door.  It  will 
produce  a  great  effect  when  at  this  instant  Hamlet 
looks  upon  the  Ghost,  and  the  Queen  upon  the  picture. 
The  stepfather  may  be  painted  in  royal  ornaments,  but 
not  so  striking." 

There  were  several  other  points  of  this  sort,  about 
which  we  shall,  perhaps,  elsewhere  have  opportunity 
to  speak. 

"  Are  you,  then,  inexorably  bent  on  Hamlet's  dying 
at  the  end?  "  inquired  Serlo. 

"  How  can  I  keep  him  alive,"  said  Wilhelm,  "  when 
the  whole  play  is  pressing  him  to  death?  We  have  al- 
ready talked  at  large  on  that  matter." 

"  But  the  public  wishes  him  to  live." 

"  I  will  show  the  public  any  other  complaisance;  but, 
as  to  this,  I  cannot.  We  often  wish  that  some  gallant, 
useful  man,  who  is  dying  of  a  chronic  disease,  might 
172 


Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  ''Hamlef 

yet  live  longer.  The  family  weep,  and  conjure  the  phy- 
sician; but  he  cannot  stay  him:  and  no  more  than  this 
physician  can  withstand  the  necessity  of  nature,  can 
we  give  law  to  an  acknowledged  necessity  of  art.  It 
is  a  false  compliance  with  the  multitude,  to  raise  in  them 
emotions  which  they  wish,  when  these  are  not  emotions 
which  they  ought,  to  feel." 

"  Whoever  pays  the  cash,"  said  Serlo,  "  may  require 
the  ware  according  to  his  liking." 

"  Doubtless,  in  some  degree,"  replied  our  friend ; 
"  but  a  great  public  should  be  reverenced,  not  used  as 
children  are  when  peddlers  wish  to  hook  the  money 
from  them.  By  presenting  excellence  to  the  people, 
you  should  gradually  excite  in  them  a  taste  and  feel- 
ing for  the  excellent;  and  they  will  pay  their  money 
with  double  satisfaction  when  reason  itself  has  noth- 
ing to  object  against  this  outlay.  The  public  you  may 
flatter,  as  you  do  a  well-beloved  child,  to  better,  to 
enlighten  it;  not  as  you  do  a  pampered  child  of  qual- 
ity, to  perpetuate  the  error  you  profit  from." 

In  this  manner  various  other  topics  were  discussed 
relating  to  the  question,  What  might  still  be  changed 
in  the  play,  and  what  must  of  necessit}^  remain  un- 
touched .^^  We  shall  not  enter  farther  on  those  points 
at  present ;  but,  perhaps,  at  some  future  time  we  may 
submit  this  altered  Hamlet  itself  to  such  of  our  readers 
as  feel  any  interest  in  the  subject. 


173 


SHAKESPEARE  AD  INFINITUM 

(1813-16) 

There  has  already  been  so  much  said  about  Shake- 
speare that  it  would  seem  as  if  there  was  nothing  left 
to  say ;  and  yet  it  is  the  characteristic  of  genius  ever 
to  be  stimulating  other  men's  genius.  In  the  present 
case  I  wish  to  consider  Shakespeare  Trom  more  than 
"^JL-H"^^^  "^  view, — first  as  a  poet  in  geneFah  then  in 
comparison  with  the  classic  and  modern  writers,  and 
final!T~a^~a~writeT~'ot^optic  drmTva^  1  shall  attempt 
to  work  out  W'hat  the  imitation  of  his  art  has  meant 
to  us,  and  what  it  can  mean  in  the  future.  I  shall 
express  my  agreement  with  what  has  been  written  by 
reiterating  it,  and  express  my  dissent  briefly  and  posi- 
tively, without  involving  myself  in  conflict  and  con- 
tradiction.    I  proceed  to  the  first  topic. 

7.    Shakespeare  as  Poet  in  General 

The  highest  achievement  possible  to  a  man  is  the 
full  consciousness  of  his  own  feelings  and  thoughts,  for 
this  gives  him  the  means  of  knowing  intimately  the 
hearts  of  others.  Now  there  are  men  who  are  born 
with  a  natural  talent  for  thrs  and  who  cultivate  it  by 
experience  towards  practical  ends.  From  this  talent 
springs  the  ability  to  profit  in  a  higher  sense  by  the 
world  and  its  opportunities.  Now  the  poet  is  born  with 
174 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitum 

the  same  talent,  only  he  cultivates  it  not  for  his  immedi- 
ate worldly  purposes  but  for  a  loftier  spiritual  and  uni- 
versal purpose.   If  jve  callShakespeare  one  of  the  greatf"'''^ 
est  poets,  we  mean  that  few  have  perceived  the  world 
as  accurai^jy^aiIEe5_that_f^ 

inner  contemplation  of  it  havp^ivoTi  thg^readrr  deeper 
insight  into  its  meaning  and  consciousness.  It  be- 
comes  for  us  completely  transparent:  we  find  ourselves 
at  once  in  the  most  intimate  touch  with  virtue  and  vice, 
greatness  and  meanness,  nobility  and  infamy,  and  all 
this  through  the  simplest  of  means.  If  we  ask  what 
these  means  are,  it  seems  as  if  they  were  directed  to- 
wards our  visual  apprehension.  But  w^e  are  mistaken; 
Shakespeare's  w^orks  are  not  for  the'phygicai'Ti^ioB. 
I  ^hall  attemptto  explain  what  I  mean. 

The  eye^  the  mosFTacile  of  our  organs  of  receptivity, 
may  well  be  called  the  clearest  of  the  senses ;  but  the 
inner  sense  is  still  clearer7^Ji3~ionri5yjm£ans__p^ 
belongs  the  most  sensitive  and  clear  receptivity.  This 
is  particularly  obvfous  whTn~wHat  we  apprehend  with 
the  eye  seems  alien  and  unimpressive  considered  in  and 
for  itself.  But  Shakespeare  speaks  always  to  our  inner  ^...^'^^ 
sense.^  Through  this,  the  picture-world  of  imagination 
becomes  animated,  and  a  complete  effect  results,  of 
which  we  can  give  no  reckoning.  Preciselj^  here  lies 
the  ground  for  the  illusion  that  everything  is  taking 
place  before  our  eyes.  But  if  we  study  the  works  of 
Shakespeare  enough,  we  find  that  they  contain  much 
more  of  spiritual  truth  than  of  spectacular  action.  He 
makes  happen  what  can  easily  be  conceived  by  the  imag- 

jiation,  indeed  what  can  be  better  imagined  than  seen. 

^jHamlet's  ghost,  Macbeth's  witches,  many  fearful  inci- 
dents, get  their  value  only  through  the  power  of  the 
"  '  "■  ~~~~  175 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

imagination,  and  many  of  the  minor  scenes  get  their 
force  from  the  same  souri^e.  /  J^n  reading",  all  these  TFungs 
pass  easily  through  our  mmds,  and  seem  quite  appro- 
priate, whereas  in  representation  on  the  stage  they 
would  strike  us  unfavorably  and  appear  not  only  un- 
pleasant but  even  disgusting. 

Shakespeare  gets  his  effect  by  means  of  the  living 
word,  and  it  is  for  this  reason  that  one  should  hear 
him  read,  for  then  the  attention  is  not  distracted  either 
by  a  too  adequate  or  a  too  inadequate  stage-setting. 
There  is  no  higher  or  purer  pleasure  than  to  sit  with 
^^ closed  eyes  and  hejLr__a^ naturally  expressively oice__re- 
c^Jgi^not  declaim,  a  play  of  Shakespeare's.  Accord- 
ing to  the  delineation  of  the  characters  we  can  picture 
to  ourselves  certain  forms,  but  more  particularly  are 
we  able  by  the  succession  of  words  and  phrases  to  learn 
what  is  passing  in  their  souls ;  the  characters  seem  to 
have  agreed  to  leave  us  in  the  dark,  in  doubt,  about 
nothing.  To  that  end  conspire  heroes  and  lackeys, 
gentlemen  and  slaves,  kings  and  heralds ;  indeed  even  the 
subordinate  characters  are  often  more  expressive  in 
this  way  than  the  leading  figures.  Everything  which 
in  an  affair  of  great  importance  breathes  only  secretly 
through  the  air,  or  lies  hidden  in  the  hearts  of  men, 
is  here  openly  expressed.  What  the  soul  anxiously  con- 
ceals and  represses  isjiere  brought  freely  and  abun- 
dantly to  the  light.  •^  We'  experience  the  truth  of  life,- — 
how,  we  do  not  know ! 

Shakespeare  associates  himself  with  the  World- 
Spirit;  like  it,  he  explores  the  world;  from  neither  is 
anything  hidden.  But  whereas  it  is  the  business  of 
the  World-Spirit  to  keep  its  secrets  both  before  and 
after  the  event,  it  is  the  work  of  the  poet  to  tell  them, 
176 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitum 

and  take  us  into  his  confidence  before  the  event  or  in 
the  very  action  itself.  The  depraved  man  of  power,  the 
well-intentioned  dullard,  the  passionate  lover,  the  quiet 
scholar,  all  carry  their  heart  in  their  hand,  often  con- 
trary to  verisimilitude.  Every  one  is  candid  and  lo- 
quacious. It  is  enough  that  the  secret  must  out,  and 
even  the  stones  would  publish  it.  The  inanimate  insists 
upon  speaking;  the  elements,  the  phenomena  of  sky, 
earth  and  sea,  thunder  and  lightning,  wild  animals,  lift 
their  voice,  often  apparently  symbolically,  but  all  join- 
ing in  the  revelation. 

The  whole  civilized  world  too  brings  its  treasures    ^ 
to  Shakespeare ;  Art  and  Science,  X^ommerce^iid  In- 
dustry,  iall  bear  him  their^if t s .     Sh akespeare V  p^bems 
are"a""great  ammated^ fair ;  and  it  is  to  his  own  country 
that  he  owes  his  riches. 

For  back  of  him  is  England,  the  sea-encircled  and 
mist-covered  country,  whose  enterprise  reaches  all  the 
parts  of  the  earth.     The  poet  lives  at  a  noble  and  im- 
portant epoch,  and  presents  all  its  glory  and  its  defi- 
ciencies with  great  vivacity;  indeed,  he  would  hardly 
produce  such  an  effect  upon  us  were  it  not  just  his  own 
life-epoch  that  he  was  representing.     Ng^^one^despised    •--^ 
the_outer  costume  of  men  more  than_he:  but  he  un--^^^ 
dersjood  well  the  inner  man,  and  here  airare~smiilar.  ^^^ 
It  is  said  that  he  has  delineated  the  Romans  witlPwon-  ^^Jc 
derful  skill.     I  cannot  see  it.     They  are~Ehglishmen~to      "^ 
the  bone ;  but  they  are  humaliT^oi'otfghly^hllTnan^-and 
'thus  the  Roman  toga^ presumably  tits  therfT     Wherfone 
takes  this  into  consideration,  one  finds  his  anacHromsms 
entirely  admirable;  indeed,"lt  is' jusFHis~negIect  of  the 
outer  form  that  makes  his  works~so  vrtal7 

Enough  of  these  slight  words,  which  cannot  begin 

177 


/ 


r 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

to  sound  the  praises  of  Shakespeare.  His  friends  and 
worshipers  will  have  to  add  many  a  word  to  them. 
But  one  more  remark : — it  would  be  hard  to  find  a^^oet 
each  of  whose  works  was  more  thoroughly  pervaded 
by^~definite""and"  effective  idea  than  his. 
-  Thus  Coriolanus  is  permeated  by  the  idea  of 
anger  at  the  refusal  of  the  lower  classes  to  recognize 
the  superiority  of  their  betters.  In  Julius  Ccesar 
everything  hinges  on  the  idea  that  the  upper  classes  are 
not  willing  to  see  the  highest  place  in  the  State  occu- 
pied, since  they  wrongly  imagine  that  they  are  able  to 
act  together.  Antony  and  Cleopatra  expresses  with 
a  thousand  tongues  the  idea  that  pleasure  and  action 
are  ever  incompatible.  And  so  one  will  ever  find,  in 
'•  searching  his  works,  new  cause  for  astonishment  and 
admiration. 


II,    Shakespeare  Compared  with  the  Ancients  and  the 
Moderns 

The  interests  which  vitalize  Shakespeare's  sjreat 
genius  are  interests  which  centre  in  tliis  world.  jFor  if 
prophecy  and  madness,  dreams,  omens,  portents,  fairies 
and  gnomes,  ghosts,  imps,  and  conjurers  introduce  a 
^  magical  element  which  so  beautifully  pervades  t^ij 
poems,  yet  these  figures  are  in  no  way  the  basic  elements 
of  his  works,  but  rest  on  a  broad  basis  of  the  truth 
£^nd_fidelity  of  life,  so  that  everything  that^  comes  from 
hi^pen  seems  to  us  genuine  and  sound.  It  has  already 
been  suggested  that  he  belongs  not  so  much  to  the  poets 
of  the  modern  era,  which  has  been  called  "  romantic," 
but  much  more  to  the  "  naturalistic  "  school,  since  his 
work  is  permeated  with  the  reality  of  the  present,  and 
178 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitum 

scarcelytou^hesjrti^jem^^  ex- 

cept at  his  highest  points. 

Disregarding  tHis^  however,  he  is,  from  a  closer  point 
of  view,  a  decidedlj^niodern  poet,  separated  from  the 
ancients  by  an  enormous  gulf,  not  perhaps  with  regard 
to  his  outer  form,  which  is  here  beside  our  point,  bu^ 
with  regard  to  his  inner  and  most  profound  spirit. 

Here  let  me  say  that  it  is  not  my  idea  to  use  the 
following  terminology  as  exhaustive  or  exclusive;  it  is 
an  attempt  not  so  much  to  add  another  new  antithesis 
to  those  already  recognized,  as  to  indicate  that  it  is 
already  contained  in  these.     These  are  the  antitheses : — ? 

Ancient  Modern 

Natural  Sentimental 

Pagan  Christian 

Classic  Romantic 

Realistic  Idealistic 

Necessity  Freedom 
Duty  (sollen)       Will  {wollen)  ^ 

The  greatest  ills  to  which  men  are  exposed,  as  well 
as  the  most  numerous,  arise  from  a  certain  inner  conflict 

1 "  Goethe,  in  a  thoughtful  essay,  Shakespeare  und  kein  Ende, 

written   many  years  later  than  his   famous   criticism  of   Hamlet 

.in    Wilhehn  Meister,   says   that   the   distinction   between   the  two 

[ancient  and  modern  drama]  is  the  ITr^erence  l^etween  soJlen  and 

wojlen,  tEiT~is,  b^twe^m:"^nt<gt  ainJdrwouldZ     He  means~fhaT~Tn  the 

IGr^k  drama  the  catastrophe  is  foreordained  by  an  inexorable 
Destiny,  while  the  element  of  free  will,  and  consequently  choice,  is 
the  very  axis  of  the  modern.  The  definition  is  conveniently  porta- 
ble, but  it  has  its  limitations.  Goethe's  attention  was '  too  ex- 
clusively fixed  on  the  fate  tragedt^s~ot"  the  Greeks,  and  upon 
SKaKspeare  among  the  moderns":  rn~fhe"  SpaTrrstr-draraH,  for  ex- 
ample, custom,  loyalty,  honor;  and  religion  are  as  imperative  and 
as  inevitable  as  doom.  In  the  Antigone,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
crisis  lies  in  the  character  of  the  protagonist." — James  Russell 
Lowell,  Shakespeare  Once  More. 

179 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

between  duty  and  will,  as  well  as  between  duty  and 
its  accomplishment,  and  desire  and  its  accomplish- 
ment; and  it  is  these  conflicts  which  bring  us  so  often 
into  trouble  in  the  course  of  our  lives.  Little  difficul- 
ties, springing  from  a  slight  error  which,  though  taking 
us  by  surprise,  can  be  solved  easily,  give  the  clue  to 
situations  of  comedy.  The  great  difficulties,  on  the 
other    hand,    unresolved    and    unresolvable,    give    us 

7   tragedy.    ^  ^  o{^>c^, 

2,  '  — Erfdominating-in  the  old  poenfe  is  the  conflict  be- 
tween duty  and  performance,  in  the  new  between  desire 
and  accomplishment.  Let  us  put  this  decided  diver- 
gency  among  the  other  antitheses  and  see  if  it  does 
not  prove  suggestive.  In  both  epochs,  I  have  said, 
there  predominates  now  this  side,  now  that ;  but  since 
duty  and  desire  are  not  radically  separated  in  men's 
characters,  both  will  be  found  together,  even  if  one 
prevails  and  the  other  is  subordinate.  Duty  is  imposed 
upon  men ;  "  must "  is  a  bitter  pill.  The  Will 
man  imposes  upon  himself;  man's  will  is  his  kingdom  of 
heaven.  A  long-continued  obligation  is  burdensome, 
the  inability  to  perform  it  even  terrible ;  but  a  constant 
will  is  pleasurable,  and  with  a  firm  will  men  can  con- 
sole themselves  for  their  inability  to  accomplish  their 
desire. 

Let  us  consider  a  game  of  cards  as  a  kind  of  poem ; 
it  consists  of  both  those  elements.  The  form  of  the 
game,  bound  up  with  chance,  plays  here  the  role  of 
necessity,  just  as  the  ancients  knew  it  under  the  form 
of  Fate ;  the  will,  bound  up  with  the  skill  of  the  player, 
works  in  the  other  direction.  In  this  sense  I  might 
call  whist  "  classic."  The  form  of  play  limits  the  oper- 
ation of  chance,  and  even  of  the  will  itself.  I  have  to 
180 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitum 

play,  in  company  with  definite  partners  and  opponents, 
with  the  cards  which  come  into  my  hand,  make  the  best 
of  a  long  series  of  chance  plays,  without  being  able 
to  control  or  parry  them.  In  Ombre  and  similar 
games,  the  contrary  is  the  case.  Here  are  many  open- 
ings left  for  skill  and  daring.  I  can  disavow  the  cards 
that  fall  to  my  hand,  make  them  count  in  different  ways, 
half  or  completely  discard  them,  get  help  by  luck,  and 
in  the  play  get  the  best  advantage  out  of  the  worst 
cards.  Thus  this  kind  of  game  resembles  perfectly  the 
modern  mode  of  thought  and  literature. 
"  Ancient_tragedy  was  based  on  unescapable  necessity, 
which  was  only  sharpened  and  accelerated  by  an  op- 
posing_will.  Here  is  the  seaFof  all  that^s  fearfiii  in 
the  oracles,  the  region  in  which  QEdipus  lords  it  over 
all.  Less  tragic  appears  necessity  in  the  guise  of 
duty  in  the  "  Antigone  " ;  and  in  how  many  forms  does 
it  not  appear !  But  all  necessity  is  despotic,  whether  it 
belong  to  the  realm  of  Reason,  like  custom  and  civil 
law,  or  to  Nature,  like  the  laws  of  Becoming,  and 
Growing  and  Passing-away,  of  Life  and  of  Death.  Be- 
fore all  these  we  tremble,  without  realizing  that  it  is  the 
good  of  the  whole  that  is  aimed  at.  The  will,  on  the 
contrary,  is  free,  appears  free,  and  is  advantageous  to 
the  individual.  Thus  the  will  is  a  flatterer,  and  takes 
possession  of  men  as  soon  as  they  learn  to  recognize 
it.  It  is  the  god  of  the  modern  world.  Dedicated  to 
it,  we  are  afraid  of  opposing  doctrines,  and  here  lies 
the  crux  of  that  eternal  division  which  separates  our 
art  and  thought  from  the  ancients.  Through  the  mo- 
tive  of  Necessity,  tragedy  became  mightyand~sfrbng ; 
throuffh  the  motTve~of  .Wi]lr^wea1nand~feeble7~^°T)^l  oi 

the  latter.  ajco&Q  .the  .s^Q-c^lkd^ Drama^., irL_whij;h  dresid 

—       i_i_      ^g^ 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Necessity  is  pyercome „  and  _di^solved^_through  the  Will. 
But  just  because  this  colFes~To~^h'e~atd"'^f~ioiir--wealc- 
ness  we  feel  moved  when,  after  painful  tension,  we  are 
at  last  a  little  encouraged  and  consoled. 

As  I  turn  now,  after  these  preliminaries,  to  Shake- 
speare, I  must  express  the  hope  that  the  reader  himself 
will  make  the  proper  comparisons  and  applications.  It  ^^ 
is  Shakespeare's  unique  distinction  that  he  has  com- 
binedin  such_remarkable  fashion  the  old  and  the  new. 
In  his  plays  Y/ill  and  Necessity  struggle  to  maintain 
an  equilibrium;  both  contend  pow^fully,  yet  always 
so jthat  Will  remains  at  a  disadvantage.  """" 

No  one^Has  shown  perhaps  better  than  he  the  con- 
nection betu'ecn  Necessity  and  Will  in  the  individual 
character.  The  person,  considered  as  a  character,  is 
under  a  certain  necessity ;  he  is  constrained,  appointed 
to  a  certain  particular  line  of  action;  but  as  a  human 
being  he  has  a  will,  which  is  unconfined  and  universal 
in  its  demands.  Thus  arises  an  inner  conflict,  and 
Shakespeare  is  superior  to  all  other  writers  in  the  sig- 
nificance with  which  he  endows  this.  But  now  an  outer 
conflict  may  arise,  and  the  individual  through  it  may 
become  so  aroused  that  an  insufficient  will  is  raised 
through  circumstance  to  the  level  of  irremissible  neces- 
sity. These  motives  I  have  referred  to  earlier  in  the 
case  of  Hamlet;  b]^t  the  motive  is__repeated  constantly 
iu-^Siiakesp^are, — Hamlet  through_the  agencyof  the 
ghost ;  jMacbeth  through  the  witches,  Hecate,  anZ^  his 
wife ;  Brutus  through  his  friends  getsinto  a  dilemma 
and  situation  to  which  they  were  not  equal;  eiven  in 
Corlolanus  the  same  motive  is  found.    This  Will,  winch 

rPflr^ViPW  fipynnrl   fLn  pnwQr  nTTFio  inH  jyjdual.|  is  decidgdlv 

182 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitu7n 

mgdcrn.  iBut  since  in  Shakespeare  it  does  not  spring 
from  within,  but  is  developed  through  external  circum- 
stance, it  becomes  a  sort  of  Necessity,  and  approaches 
the  classical  motive.7For  all  the  heroes  of  ancient  poetry 
willed  only  what  was  possible  to  men,  and  from  this 
arose  that  beautiful  balance  between  Necessity,  Will, 
and  Accomplishment.  Still  their  Necessity  is  a  little 
too  severe  for  it  really  to  be  able  to  please  us,  even 
though  we  may  wonder  at  and  admire  it.  A  Necessity 
which  more  or  less,  or  even  completely,  excludes  human 
freedom  docs  not  chime  with  our  views  any  longer.  It  is 
true  that  Shakespeare  in  his  own  way  has  approxi- 
mated this,  but  in_making  this  Necessity  a  moral 
necessity  he  has,  to  our  pleasure  and  astonisliment, 
united  the  spirit  of  the  ancient  and  the  modern  worlds. 
If  we  are  to  learn  anything  from  him,  here  is  the^oint 
where  we  must  study  in  his  school.  Instead  of  singing 
the  praises  of  our  Romanticism  so  exclusively,  and  stick- 
ing to  it  so  uncritically, — our  Romanticism,  which 
need  not  be  chidden  or  rejected, — and  thus  mistaking 
and  obscuring  its  strong,  solid  practical  aspect,  we 
should  rather  attempt  to  make  this  great  fusion  be- 
tween the  old  and  the  new,  even  though  it  does  seem 
inconsistent  and  paradoxical;  and  all  the  more  should 
we  make  the  attempt,  because  a  great  and  unique  mas- 
ter, whom  we  value  most  highly,  and,  often  without 
knowing  why,  give  homage  to  above  all  others,  has 
already  most  effectively  accomplished  this  miracle. 
To  be  sure,  he  had  the  advantage  of  living  in  a  true 
time  of  harvest,  and  of  working  in  a  vigorous  Protestant 
country,  where  the  madness  of  bigotry  was  silent  for 
a  time,  so  that  freedom  was  given  to  a  true  child  of 

183 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

nature,  such  as  Shakespeare  was,  to  develop  religiously 
his  own  pure  inner  nature,  without  reference  to  any 
established  religion. 

The  preceding  words  were  written  in  the  summer  of 
1813;  1  ask  that  the  reader  will  not  now  find  fault 
with  me,  but  simply  recall  what  was  said  above, — that 
this  is  merely  an  individual  attempt  to  show  how 
different  poetic  geniuses  have  tried  to  reconcile  and 
resolve  that  tremendous  antithesis  which  has  appeared 
in  their  works  in  so  many  forms.  To  say  more  would 
be  superfluous,  since  interest  has  been  centred  in 
this  question  for  the  past  few  years,  and  excellent  ex- 
planations have  been  given  us.  Above  all  I  wish  to 
mention  Bliimner's  highly  valuable  treatise.  On  the  Idea 
of  Fate  in  the  Tragedies  of  ^schylus,  and  the  excellent 
criticism  of  it  in  the  supplement  of  the  Jenaische  Litera- 
turzeitung.  Therefore,  I  come  without  further  com- 
ment to  my  third  point,  which  relates  immediately  to 
the  German  theatre  and  to  Schiller's  efforts  to  estab- 
lish it  for  the  future. 


III.    Shakespeare  as  Playwright 

When  lovers  of  art  wish  to  enjoy  any  work,  they 
contemplate  and  delight  in  it  as  a  whole,  that  is,  they 
try  to  feel  and  apprehend  the  unity  which  the  artist 
can  bring  to  them.  Whoever,  on  the  other  hand,  wishes 
to  judge  such  works  theoretically,  to  assert  some  judg- 
ment about  them,  or  instruct  some  one  about  them, 
must  use  his  discriminating  and  analytic  faculty.  This 
we  attempted  to  carry  out  when  we  discussed  Shake- 
speare, first,  as  poet  in  general,  and  then  compared 
184 


^^. 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitum 

him  with  the  ancient  and  modern  poets.  Now  we  in- 
tend to  close  the  matter  by  considering  him  as  a  play- 
wright, or  poet  of  the  theatre. 

Shakespeare^  fame  and  excellence  belong  to  the  his- 
tory of  poetry;  but  it  is  an  injustice  towards  all  play- 
wrights of  earlier  and  more  recent  times  to  give  him 
his  entire  merit  in  the  annals  of  the  theatre. 

A  universally  recognized  talent  may  make  of  its  ca- 
pacities some  use  which  is  problematical.     Not  every- 
thing which  the  great  do  is  done  in  the  best  fashion. 
^So  Shakespeare  belongs  by  necessity  in  the  annals  of  ^  ^^ 
poetry;  in  the  annals  of  the  theatre  Ee~~appesrrs^  only  ^>^^^' 
by  accident.     Since  we  can  honorTum  so  unreservedly  t^^y 
in  the  first  case,  it  behooves  us  in  the  second  to  explain    '^'^^ 
the  conditions  to  which  he  had  to  accommodate  him- 
self, but  not  therefore  to  extol  these  conditions  as  either 
admirable  or  worthy  of  imitation. 

We  must  distinguish  closely-related  poetic  genres, 
however  often  they  may  be  confused  and  merged  to- 
gether in  actual  treatment, — epic,  dialogue,  drama, 
play.  [E^c  requires  the  verbal  delivery  to  the  crowd 
through  the  mouth  of  an  individual;  dialocfue,  conver- 
sation in  a  narrow  circle,  where  the  crowd  may  event- 
ually listen ;  drama,  conversation  bound  up  with  action, 
even  if  enacted  only  before  the  imagination ;  play,  all 
three  together,  in  so  far  as  they  appeal  to  the  sense  of 
vision,  and  can  be  embodied  under  certain  conditions  of 
personal  presence  and  stage-settingTJ 

Shakespeare's  works  are  in  this  sense  highly  drama-     ^^ 
^cjjby  his  treatmentT^  revelation  of  the  inner~Iife,  he  ^•'^^'"  -■ 
wins  the  reader ;  the  theatrical  demands  appear  to  him      .W^-^ 
unimportant,  and  so  he  takes  it  easy,  and  we,  spiritu-  '^^^^ 
ally  speaking,  take  it  easy  with  him.    We  pass  with  him  y  ~^ 

185     ^^ 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

from  place  to  place;  our  power  of  imagination  pro- 
vides all  the  episodes  which  he  omits.  We  even  feel 
grateful  to  him  for  arousing  our  imagination  in  so 
profitable  a  way.  Since  he  exhibits  everything  in 
dramatic  form,  he  renders  easy  the  working  of  our 
imaginations ;  for  with  the  "  stage  that  signifies  the 
world,"  we  are  more  familiar  than  with  the  world  itself, 
and  we  can  read  and  hear  the  most  phantastic  tilings, 
and  still  imagine  that  they  might  pass  before  our  eyes 
on  the  stage.  This  accounts  for  the  frequently  bun- 
gling dramatizations  of  favorite  novels. 

Strictly  speaking,  nothing  is  theatrical  except  what 
is  immediately  symbolical  to  the  eye :  an  important  ac- 
tiany-ihat  is,  which  oignifioo  a  stilLmore^  important  one. 
That  Shakespeare  knew  how  to  attain  this  summit,  that 
moment  witnesses  where  the  son  and  heir  in  Henri/  IV 
takes  the  crown  from  the  side  of  the  slumbering  king, 
who  lies  sick  unto  death, — takes  the  crown  and  marches 
proudly  away  with  it.  But  these  are  only  moments, 
scattered  jewels,  separated  by  much  that  is  untheatri- 
cal.  Shakespeare's  whole  method  finds  in  the  stage  it- 
self something  unwieldy  and  hostile.  His  great  talent, 
is  that  of  a  universal  interpreter,  or  "  epitomizer  " 
(Epitomator).  and  since  the  poetjLn_essence  appears 
as  universal  interpreter  of  Nature,  so  we  must  recognize 
Shakespeare's  great  genius  as  lying  in  this  realm;  it 
would  be  only  falsehood — and  in_nosense  is  this  to  his 
dishonor — were  we  to  say  that  the  stage  wars"~a"  worthy 
field  for  his  genius.  These  limitations  of  the  stage, 
however,  have  forced  upon  him  certain  limitations  of 
his  own.  But  he  does  not,  like  other  poets,  pick  out 
disconnected  materials  for  his  separate  works,  but  puts 
an  idea  at  the  centre,  and  to  it  relates  the  world  and 
186 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitum 

the  universe.  As  he  works  over  and  boils  down  ancient 
and  modern  history,  he  can  often  make  use  of  the  ma- 
terial of  old  chronicles;  indeed,  he  often  adapts  them 
word  for  word.  With  romances  he  does  not  deal  so  con- 
scientiously, as  Hamlet  shows  us.  Romeo  and  Juliet 
is  truer  to  the  original;  still  he  almost  destroys  the 
tragic  content  of  it  by  his  two  comic  characters,  Mer- 
cutio  and  the  old  nurse,  played  apparently  by  two 
favorite  actors,  the  nurse  perhaps  originally  by  a  male 
performer.  If  one  examines  the  construction  of  the 
piece  carefully,  however,  one  notices  that  these  two  fig- 
ures, and  what  surrounds  them,  come  in  only  as  farcical 
interludes,  and  must  be  as  unbearable  to  the  minds  of 
the  lovers  on  the  stage  as  they  are  to  us. 

But  Shakespeare  appears  most  remarkable  when  he 
revises  and  pieces  together  already  existing  plays.  In 
King  John  and  Lear  we  can  make  this  comparison,  for 
the  older  plays  are  extant.  But  in  these  cases,  too,  he 
turns  out  to  be  more  of  a  poet  than  playwright. 

In  closing,  let  us  proceed  to  the  solution  of  the  rid- 
dle. The  primitiveness  of  the  English  stage  has  been 
brought  to  our  attention  by  scholars.  There  is  no 
trace  in  it  of  that  striving  after  realism,  which  we  have 
developed  with  the  improvement  ot  machinery  and  the 
art  of  perspective  and  costuming,  and  fronridhich  we 
should  ImHTt  hard  to  turn  back  fo  that  childlike  begin- 
mng~oFThest^!ge,-— as(^ 

where  everything  was  signifiedy  where  the  audience  was 
content  to  assume  a  royal  chamber  behind  a  green  cur- 
tain; and  the  trumpeter,  who  always  blew  his  trumpet 
at  a  certain  place,  and  all  the  rest  of  it.  Who  would 
be  content  to-day  to  put  up  with  such  a  stage?  But 
amid    such    surroundings,    Shakespeare's    plays    were 

187 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

highly  interesting  stories,  only  told  by  several  persons, 
who,  in  order  to  make  somewhat  more  of  an  impres- 
sion, had  put  on  masks,  and,  when  it  was  necessary, 
moved  back  and  forth,  entered  and  left  the  stage;  but 
left  to  the  spectator  nevertheless  the  task  of  imagining 
at  his  pleasure  Paradise  and  palaces  on  the  empty  stage. 

How  else  then  did  Schroeder  acquire  the  great  dis- 
tinction of  bringing  Shakespeare's  plays  to  the  Ger- 
man stage,  except  by  the  fact  that  he  was  the  "  epito- 
mizer  "  of  the  "  epitomizer  "  1 

Schroeder  confined  himself  exclusively  to  effect; 
everything  else  he  discarded,  even  many  necessary 
things,  if  they  seemed  to  injure  the  effect  which  he 
wanted  to  produce  on  his  country  and  his  time.  Thus 
by  the  omission,  for  instance,  of  the  first  scenes  of  King 
Lear,  he  annulled  the  character  of  the  play.  And  he 
was  right,  for  in  this  scene  Lear  seems  so  absurd  that 
we  are  not  able,  in  what  follows,  to  ascribe  to  his  daugh- 
ters the  entire  guilt.  We  are  sorry  for  the  old  man, 
but  we  do  not  feel  real  pity  for  him ;  and  it  is  pity  that 
Schroeder  wishes  to  arouse,  as  well  as  abhorrence  for 
the  daughters,  who  are  indeed  unnatural,  but  not  wholly 
blameworthy. 

In  the  old  play,  which  Shakespeare  revised,  this  scene 
*  produces  in  the  course  of  the  action  the  loveliest  effect. 
Lear  flees  to  France;  the  daughters  and  the  stepson, 
from  romantic  caprice,  make  a  pilgrimage  over  the 
sea,  and  meet  the  old  man,  who  does  not  recognize 
them.  Here  everything  is  sweet,  where  Shakespeare's 
loftier  tragic  genius  has  embittered  us.  A  comparison 
of  these  plays  will  give  the  thoughtful  reader  ever  fresh 
pleasure. 

Many  years  ago  the  superstition  crept  into  Germany 
188 


Shakespeare  ad  infinitum 

that  Shakespeare  must  be  given  literally  word  for  word, 
even  if  actors  and  audience  were  murdered  in  the  proc- 
ess. *  The  attempts,  occasioned  by  an  excellent  and  exact 
translation,  were  nowhere  successful,  of  which  fact  the 
painstaking  and  repeated  endeavors  of  the  stage  at 
Weimar  are  the  best  witness.  If  we  wish  to  see  a 
Shakespearean  play,  we  must  take  up  again  Schroeder's 
version;  but  the  notion  that  in  the  staging  of  Shake- 
speare not  an  iota  may  be  omitted,  senseless  as  it  is, 
one  hears  constantly  repeated.  If  the  defenders  of  this 
opinion  maintain  the  upper  hand,  in  a  few  years  Shake- 
speare will  be  quite  driven  from  the  stage,  which  for 
that  matter  would  be  no  great  misfortune ;  for  then  the 
reader,  whether  he  be  solitary  or  sociable,  will  be  able 
to  get  so  much  the  purer  pleasure  out  of  him. 

They  have,  however,  with  the  idea  of  making  an  at- 
tempt along  the  lines  of  which  we  have  spoken  in  de- 
tail above,  revised  Romeo  and  Juliet  for  the  theatre  at 
Weimar.  The  principles  according  to  which  this  was 
done  we  shall  develop  before  long,  and  it  will  per- 
haps become  apparent  why  this  version,  whose  staging 
is  by  no  means  difficult,  although  it  must  be  handled 
artistically  and  carefully,  did  not  take  on  the  German 
stage.  Attempts  of  a  similar  kind  are  going  on,  and 
perhaps  something  is  preparing  for  the  future,  for  fre- 
quent endeavors  do  not  always  show  immediate  effects.: 


189 


FIRST  EDITION  OF  HAMLET 

(1827) 

The  First  Edition  of  the  Tragedy  of  Hamlet,  by  Wil- 
liam Shakespeare,  London,  1603.  Reprinted  by 
Fleischer,  Leipzig,  1825. 

In  this  book  Shakespeare's  devoted  admirers  receive  a 
valuable  present.  The  first  unbiased  reading  has  given 
me  a  wonderful  impression.  It  was  the  old  familiar 
masterpiece  again,  its  action  and  movement  in  no  way 
altered,  but  the  most  powerful  and  effective  principal 
passages  left  untouched,  just  as  they  came  from  the 
original  hand  of  the  genius.  The  play  was  exceedingly 
easy  and  deli^tful  to  read.  One  thought  one's  self  in  a 
wholly  f amiliar^orld,  and  yet  felt  something  peculiar 
which  could  not  be  expressed,  and  this  induced  one 
to  give  the  play  a  closer  consideration,  and  indeed  a 
stricter  comparison  with  the  old.  Hence  these  few 
random  remarks. 

First  of  all,  it  was  noticeable  that  there  was  no  lo- 
cality given,  nor  was  there  information  about  the  stage- 
setting,  and  just  as  little  about  the  division  of  the  acts 
and  scenes.  All  this  was  represented  by  "  Enter  "  and 
"  Exit."  The  imagination  was  allowed  free  play.  One 
saw  again  in  his  mind^F'eye~l;Tie  old  primitive  English 
stage.  The  action  took  its  impetuous  course  of  life 
and  passion,  and  one  did  not  take  the  time  to  think 
of  such  things  as  places. 
190 


First  Edition  of  ''Hamlef' 

In  the  more  recent  familiar  revision  we  find  the  divi- 
sion into  acts  and  scenes,  and  locality  and  stage-setting 
are  given.  Whether  these  are  by  him  or  by  later  stage- 
managers,  we  leave  undecided  here. 

The  Polonius  of  the  second  revision  is  called  Corambis 
in  the  first,  and  the  role  appears  through  this  little  cir- 
cumstance to  take  on  another  character. 

The  unimportant  supernumerary  roles  were  first  des- 
ignated merely  by  numbers,  but  here  we  find  them  en- 
dowed with  honor  and  significance  through  being  given 
names.  We  are  thus  reminded  of  Schiller,  who  in  Wil- 
Jielm  Tell  gave  names  to  his  peasant  women  and  some 
words  to  speak,  so  that  they  became  more  acceptable 
roles.  The  poet  does  the  same  here  with  guards  and 
courtiers. 

If  in  the  first  edition  we  find  a  loosely  written  syllabi- 
cation, in  the  later  one  we  find  it  better  controlled, 
though  always  without  pedantry.  Rhythmic  passages 
are  divided  into  five-foot  iambics,  though  half  and 
quarter  verses  are  not  avoided. 

So  much  for  the  external  expression.  A  comparison 
of  the  inner  connections  and  relations  will  be  of  profit 
to  any  admirer  who  gives  the  work  an  individual  study. 
Here  are  only  a  few  suggestions. 

Passages,  which  in  the  first  version  are  only  lightly 
sketched  by  the  hand  of  genius,  we  find  more  deliberately 
executed,  and  in  a  way  that  we  have  to  approve  and 
admire  as  necessary.  We  come,  too,  upon  pleasing  am- 
plifications, which  may  not  be  absolutely  nec<^ssar3r,  but 
which  are  highly  welcome.  Here  and  there  we  find 
hardly  perceptible  yet  vivid  aspersions,  connective  pas- 
sages, even  important  transpositions  to  make  a  highly 
effective  speech, — everything  done  with  a  master-hand. 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

with  intelligence  anrl  fppling.,  pvprxthing  thrilling  our 
emotions  and  claxif.ying  our  insight. 

Everywhere  in  the  first  version  we  admire  that  sure- 
ness  of  touch  which,  without  lengthy  reflection,  seems 
rather  as  if  it  had  been  poured  out  spontaneously,  a 
vivifying  and  illuminating  discovery.  And  whatever 
excellences  the  poet  may  have  given  to  his  later  work, 
whatever  deviations  he  employed,  at  least  we  find  no- 
where any  important  omission  or  alteration.  Only  here 
and  there  some  rather  coarse  and  naive  expressions  are 
expunged. 

In  closing  we  shall  mention,  however,  a  noticeable 
difference  which  concerns  the  costume  of  the  Ghost. 
His  first  appearance,  as  we  know,  is  in  armor ;  he  is 
armed  from  head  to  foot;  his  face  is  pale  and  sad,  his 
glance  wan  and  yet  austere.  In  this  guise  he  appears 
on  the  terrace,  where  the  castle  guard  is  marching  up 
and  down,  and  where  he  himself  may  often  have  drawn 
up  his  warriors. 

In  the  closet  of  the  Queen,  on  the  other  hand,  we  find 
mother  and  son  in  the  familiar  dialogue,  and  finally 
these  words : — 

"  Queen.     Hamlet,  you  break  my  heart. 
Hamlet.     O  throw  the  worser  part  away  and  keep 
the  better." 

But  then  follows :  "  Enter  the  Ghost  in  his  night- 
gowne." 

Who,  on  first  hearing  this,  does  not  find  it  for  a  mo- 
ment incongruous  ?  And  yet  if  we  grasp  it,  if  we  think 
it  over,  we  shall  find  it  right  and  proper.  He  should 
— indeed  he  must — appear  first  in  armor,  when  he  is 
192 


First  Edition  of  "Hamlef 

entering  the  place  where  he  has  rallied  his  warriors, 
where  he  has  encouraged  them  to  noble  deeds.  And 
now-  we  begin  to  be  less  confident  of  our  convic- 
tion that  it  was  suitable  to  see  him  enter  the  private 
closet  of  the  queen  in  armor,  too.  How  much  more 
private,  homelike,  terrible,  is  his  entrance  here  in  the 
form  in  which  he  used  to  appear — in  his  house  apparel, 
his  night  robe,  harmless  and  unarmed  —  a  guise 
which  in  itself  stigmatizes  in  the  most  piteous  way  the 
treachery  which  befell  him.  Let  the  intelligent  reader, 
as  he  may,  picture  this  to  himself.  Let  the  stage- 
manager,  convinced  of  this  effect,  produce  it  in  this 
way,  if  Shakespeare  is  to  be  staged  in  his  integrity. 

It  is  worth  noting  that  the  commentator  Steevens 
has  already  criticized  this  scene.  When  Hamlet 
says : — 

"  My  father  in  his  habit  as  he  lived ! " 

this  discerning  critic  adds  this  note : — "  If  the  poet 
means  by  this  expression  that  the  father  is  appearing 
in  his  own  house  costume,  he  has  either  forgotten  that 
at  the  beginning  he  introduced  him  in  armor,  or  else 
it  must  be  his  intention  in  this  latter  appearance  to 
alter  his  attire.  Hamlet's  father,  just  as  a  warrior 
prince  might  do,  does  not  always  remain  in  armor,  or 
sleep,  as  they  tell  of  King  Haakon,  of  Norway,  with  his 
battle-ax  in  his  hand." 

If  we  had  been  clever  enough,  we  should  have  already 
thought  of  Hamlet's  first  utterance  in  this  scene,  when 
he  sees  the  Ghost : — "  What  would  your  gracious  fig- 
ure? "  For  we  have  not  words  enough  to  express  all 
that  the  English  mean  by  the  word  "  gracious," — every- 

193 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

thing  that  is  kind  and  gentle,  friendly  and  benign,  tender 
and  attractive,  is  fused  in  that  word.  Certainly  it  is 
no  term  for  a  hero  in  armor. 

These  doubts  are  happily  now  dispelled  by  the  re- 
printing of  the  first  edition.  We  are  convinced  anew 
that  Shakespeare,  like  the  Universe,  is  always  offering 
us  new  aspects,  and  still  remains,  at  the  end  of  it  all, 
lofty  and  inaccessible.  For  all  our  powers  are  not  com- 
petent to  do  justice  to  his  words,  much  less  his  genius. 


194 


TROILUS  AND  CRESSIDA 

(1824) 

A  COMPARISON  of  the  Iliad  with  Troilus  and  Cressida 
leads  to  similar  conclusions:  here,  too,  there  is  neither 
parody  nor  travesty,  but,  as  in  the  case  of  the  eagle 
and  the  owl  two  subjects  taken  from  nature  were  put 
in  striking  contrast  with  each  other,  so  here  are  con- 
trasted the  intellectual  fibre  of  two  epochs.  The  Greek 
poem  is  in  the  grand  style,  self-restrained  and  self- 
sufficient,  using  only  the  essential,  and,  in  description 
and  simile,  disdaining  all  ornament, — ^basing  itself  on 
noble  myths  and  tradition.  TheEnglish  classic^  on 
thej)therjiand,  one  might  consider  a  happy  transposi- 
-Jion  and  translation  oi-th^  other  gr eat jffifli^^ 
rgrnantic-dramatic  style. 

In  this  connection  we  should  not  forget,  however, 
that  this  piece,  like  many  another,  is  based  on  second- 
hand narratives,  already  rendered  into  prose,  and  oiily 
half-poetical. 

Yet  it  is  also  quite  original,  as  much  so  as  if  the 
ancient  piece  had  never  been  at  all;  for  it  requires  just 
as  profound  a  sincerity,  just  as  decided  a  talent,  to  de- 
pict for  us  similar  personalities  and  characters  with 
so  lights  a  touch  and  so  lucid  a  meaning,  and  represent 
them  for  a  later  age  with  all  the  human  traits  of  that 
age,  which  thus  sees  itself  reflected  in  the  guise  of  the 
ancient  story. 

195, 


ON  OTHER  WRITERS 


GOETHE  AS  A  YOUNG  REVIEWER 
(1772) 

I 

Lyrical  Poems,  by  J.  C.  Blum.     Berlin,  1772 

We  no  longer  feel  certain  whether  it  is  wise  for  young 
poets  to  read  the  ancients  early.  Our  unimaginative 
mode  of  life  stifles  genius,  unless  the  singers  of  freer 
times  kindle  it  and  open  to  it  an  atmosphere  at  least 
ideally  more  free;  but  these  very  singers  also  breathe 
into  the  soul  so  exotic  a  spirit  that  the  very  best  poet, 
with  the  most  fortunate  genius,  can  soon  merely  sup- 
port himself  in  his  flight  through  his  imagination,  and 
can  no  longer  give  expression  to  that  glowing  inspiration 
which  alone  makes  true  poetry.  Why  are  the  poems  of 
the  old  skalds,  of  the  Celts  and  the  old  Greeks,  even  of 
the  Orientals,  so  strong,  so  flery,  so  great?  Nature 
drives  them  to  singing  as  it  does  the  bird  in  the  air. 
As  for  us  (for  we  cannot  deceive  ourselves)  we  are 
driven  to  the  lyre  by  an  artificial  and  stimulated  feel- 
ing, which  we  owe  to  our  admiration  for  the  ancients, 
and  to  our  delight  in  them ;  and  for  this  reason  our  best 
songs,  with  few  exceptions,  are  merely  imitative  copies. 
These  remarks  have  been  suggested  by  the  lyrical 
poems  of  Herr  Blum.  This  poet  is  certainly  not  with- 
out talent,  and  yet  how  seldom  does  he  seem  to  be  able 
to  stand  on  his  own  feet  when  his  Horace  is  not  be- 
fore his  eyes.     The  latter  illumines  the  way  for  him, 

199 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

like  Hero's  torch;  the  moment  he  must  go  alone,  ne 
sinks.  Space  does  not  permit  us  to  prove  our  point 
here,  but  we  ask  every  reader  who  knows  his  Horace 
whether  the  poet  does  not  grow  tired  and  cold  whenever 
Horace  and  King  David  do  not  lend  him  thoughts,  feel- 
ings, expressions,  situations,  and  in  the  case  of  the  for- 
mer even  his  mythology,  all  of  which,  we  must  feel,  are 
seldom  used  except  when  the  imagination  creates  with  a 
cold  heart.  The  well-known  Horatian  dialogue.  Donee 
gratus  eram,  Kleist  has  translated  much  better;  but 
the  "  Lamentation  of  David  and  Jonathan  "  we  have 
never  seen  better  versified  than  here.  We  wish  the 
writer  an  unspoilt  maiden,  days  of  complete  leisure,  and 
the  pure  spirit  of  poetry  without  the  spirit  of  mere 
authorship.  The  very  best  of  poets  degenerates  when 
in  composing  he  thinks  of  the  public,  and  is  filled  with  a 
yearning  for  fame,  especially  newspaper  fame,  rather 
than  completely  absorbed  by  his  subject. 


Cyrnbellme,    a    Trageay,    Based    on    a   Shakespearian 
Theme  [by  J.  G.  Sulzer].     Danzig,  1772. 

The  author,  obliged  by  a  severe  illness  to  avoid  all 
fatiguing  work, — so  we  are  informed  in  the  Preface, — 
amused  himself  with  the  study  of  Shakespeare's  works. 
We  could  have  told  him  in  advance  that  this  was  no 
reading  for  a  convalescent ;  whoever  wishes  to  share 
in  the  life  that  glows  through  Shakespeare's  plays  must 
himself  be  sound  in  body  and  mind.  At  all  events,  our 
author,  moved  by  a  cool,  weak,  critical  modesty,  re- 
gretted that  so  many  "  incongruites  "  should  mar  the 
*'  many  just  sentiments  "  and  "  some  beauties  "  (as  the 
200 


Goetlie  as  a  Young  Reviewer 

eminent  Dr.  Johnson  likewise  remarks)  that  are  to  be 
found  in  this  play.  So  he  resolved  to  separate  the 
dross  fi'om  the  gold  (that  is  vox  populi  critici  in  regard 
to  Shakespeare  since  time  immemorial),  and  to  attempt 
nothing  less  than  this :  what  Sophocles  would  approxi- 
mately have  done  if  he  had  tried  to  make  a  play  out 
of  the  same  material.  So  he  travestied — no,  not  traves- 
tied, for  then  something  of  the  appearance  of  the  orig- 
inal would  remain — parodied — no,  not  that  either,  for 
then  something  could  be  guessed  by  the  very  contrast — 
what  then?  what  word  will  express  the  poverty  that  is 
here,  compared  with  the  infinite  riches  of  Shakespeare ! 

Shakespeare,  who  felt  the  spirit  of  several  centuries 
in  his  breast,  through  whose  soul  the  life  of  whole  cen- 
turies was  stirring  ! — and  here — comedians  in  silk  and 
buckram,  and  daubed  scene-painting!  The  scene  a 
wood;  in  front  a  thick  copse,  through  which  one  en- 
ters a  grotto ;  in  the  background  a  large  pasteboard 
rock,  on  which  ladies  and  gentlemen  sit,  lie,  are  stabbed, 
etc. 

That  is  the  way  Sophocles  would  have  handled  this 
theme!  It  is  bad  enough  to  take  Shakespeare's  play, 
whose  very  essence  is  the  life  of  history,  and  reduce  it 
to  the  Sophoclean  unity  which  aims  merely  at  present- 
ing action ;  but  to  model  it  on  the  "  Treatise  on  Trag- 
edy "  in  the  first  part  of  the  old  Leipziger  Bihliotlieh!  ^ 
We  are  certain  that  every  one,  not  merely  readers  of 
Shakespeare,  will  cast  it  aside  with  contempt. 
iBy  Nicolai. 


201 


BYRON'S  MANFRED 

(1820) 

To  me  Byron's  tragedy  of  Manfred  was  a  wonderful 
phenomenon,  touching  me  closely.  This  singular  but 
highly  gifted  poet  has  absorbed  my  own  Faust  into 
himself,  and,  like  a  hypochondriac,  drawn  from  it  the 
strangest  sort  of  nourishment.  Those  motives  and 
ideas  which  suited  his  purposes  he  has  made  use  of,  but 
in  his  own  originalway,  so  that  everything  seems  dif- 
ferent; and  fpr  this  reason  I  cannot  wonder  enough  at 
^^is  gehms.  \  This  transformation  affects"^h^e  ^hole  so 
intimately  that  highly  interesting  lectures  could  be 
given  on  the  similarity  and  dissimilarity  which  his  work 
bears  to  his  pattern ;  )but  I  do  not  deny  that  in  the  long 
run  the  dull  glow^oi  a  boundless  and  profound  despair 
becomes  irksome  to  us.  Yet  in  the  dissatisfaction 
which  one  feels  there  are  always  interwoven  both  admir- 
ation and  respect. 

Thus  we  find  in  this  tragedy  quite  uniquely  the  very 
quintessence  of  the  feelings  and  passions  of  a  remark- 
able genius,  but  a  genius  doomed  from  birth  to  suffer- 
ing and  anguish.  The  details  of  his  life  and  the  char- 
acteristics of  his  poetry  hardly  permit  of  a  just  and 
fair  criticism.  He  has  often  enough  confessed  his  an- 
guish ;  he  has  repeatedly  presented  it  in  his  verse,  and 
it  is  difficult  for  any  one  not  to  feel  real  pity  for  the 
unbearable  pain  which  he  is  forever  working  and  gnaw- 
ing over  in  his  heart. 
202 


Byron's  ''Manfred" 

There  are  two  women  whose  shadows  follow  him  un- 
ceasingly, and  who  play  a  large  role  in  his  best-known 
works  ^  one  appears  under  the  name  Astarte,  the  other, 
without  form  or  presence,  simply  as  A  Voice. 

The  following  story  is  told  of  the  tragic  adventure 
which  was  his  experience  with  the  first.  As  a  young, 
daring  and  highly  attractive  youth  he  won  the  love  of 
a  Florentine  lady ;  her  husband  discovered  it  and  mur- 
dered her.  But  the  murderer  was  found  dead  that  same 
night  in  the  street,  and  there  was  nothing  to  throw  sus- 
picion upon  a  single  soul.  Lord  Byron  left  Florence, 
but  these  apparitions  haunted  him  throughout  his  whole 
life. 

This  romantic  event  appears  in  his  poems  in  count- 
less allusions,  as  for  example  where  he,  probably  brood- 
ing over  his  own  tragedy,  applies  the  sad  story  of  the 
king  of  Sparta  to  his  own  case.  The  story  is  as 
follows :  Pausanias,  the  Lacedaemonian  general,  having 
won  fame  in  the  important  victory  at  Platsea,  later 
through  arrogance,  stubbornness,  and  cruel  treatment, 
loses  the  affection  of  the  Greeks,  and,  on  account  of 
a  secret  understanding  with  the  enemy,  loses  also  the 
confidence  of  his  countrymen.  He  thus  brings  blood- 
guiltiness  upon  his  head,  which  pursues  him  to  a  miser- 
able end.  For  while  in  command  of  the  fleet  of  the  Greek 
allies  in  the  Black  Sea,  he  falls  violently  in  love  with  a 
girl  of  Byzantium.  After  a  long  struggle  he  wins  her 
from  her  parents;  she  is  to  be  brought  to  him  in  the 
night.  Filled  with  shame,  she  requests  the  servants  to 
put  out  the  light;  this  is  done,  but  groping  about  in 
the  room,  she  knocks  over  the  lamp-stand.  Pausanias 
awakes  suddenly  from  sleep,  suspects  murder,  seizes  his 
sword  and  kills  his  beloved.     The  horrible  vision  of  this 

203 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

scene  never  leaves  him  afterwards,  its  shadow  pursue^ 
him  unceasingly,  so  that  he  appeals  in  vain  to  the  gods 
and  to  necromancers  for  aid  and  absolution. 

What  a  sick  heart  the  poet  must  have  who  would 
seek  out  such  a  story  from  the  ancient  world,  appro- 
priate it  to  himself,  and  burden  himself  with  its  tragic 
image!  This  will  explain  the  following  monologue,  so 
laden  with  gloom  and  the  despair  of  life ;  we  recommend 
it  to  all  lovers  of  declamation  for  serious  practice. 
Hamlet's  monologue  is  here  intensified.  It  will  take 
considerable  art  especially  to  pick  out  the  interpola- 
tions and  yet  keep  the  connection  and  the  flow  and 
smoothness  of  the  whole.  Besides  it  will  be  discov- 
ered that  a  certain  vehement,  even  eccentric,  expres- 
sion is  needed  in  order  to  do  justice  to  the  intention  of 
the  poet.^ 

iThe  quotation  which  follows  here,  translated  by  Goethe  into 
German,  is  Manfred's  speech  at  the  end  of  act  2,  scene  2,  begin- 
ning: 

"We  are  the  fools  of  Time  and  Terror!     Days 
Steal  on  us,  and  steal  from  us;  yet  we  live. 
Loathing  our  life,  and  dreading  still  to  die," 


204. 


BYRON'S  BON  JUAN^ 

(1821) 

In  hesitating  some  time  ago  to  insert  a  passage  from 
[Manzoni's]  Count  Carmagnola,  a  piece  which  is  per- 
haps translatable,  and  in  the  present  instance  making 
the  daring  attempt  to  take  up  and  discuss  the  untrans- 
latable Don  Juan,  it  may  seem  as  if  we  are  guilty  of 
an  inconsistency.  We  shall  therefore  point  out  the  dif- 
ference between  the  two  cases.  Manzoni  is  as  yet  but 
little  known  among  us,  and  it  is  better  that  people 
should  learn  to  know  his  merits  first  in  their  complete 
fullness,  as  they  are  presented  only  in  the  original ;  after 
that,  a  translation  by  one  of  our  young  poets  would  be 
decidedly  in  order.  With  Lord  Byron's  talent,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  are  sufficiently  acquainted,  and  can 
neither  help  nor  injure  him  by  translation,  for  the 
originals  are  in  the  hands  of  all  cultivated  people. 

Yet  such  an  attempt,  even  if  it  were  attempting  the 
impossible,  will  always  have  a  certain  value.  For  if  a 
false  reflection  does  not  exactly  give  back  the  original 
picture  to  us,  yet  it  makes  us  attentive  at  least  tO' 
the  mirror  itself  and  to  its  more  or  less  perceptible 
defects. 

Don  Juan  is  a  work  of  infinite  genius,  misan- 
thropical  with  the  bitterest  inhumanity,  yet  sympa- 
thetic with  the  deepest  intensity  of  tender  feeling.    And 

iThis  paper  is  preceded  by  a  translation  into  German  verse 
of  the  first  five  stanzas  of  Don  Juan. 

205 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

since  we  now  know  the  author  and  esteem  him,  and  do 
not  wish  him  to  be  otherwise  than  he  is,  we  enjoy  thank- 
fully what  he  dares  with  overgreat  independence,  indeed 
insolence,  to  bring  before  us.  The  technical  treatment 
of  the  verse  is  quite  in  accord  with  the  singular,  reckless, 
unsparing  content.  The  poet  spares  his  language  as 
little  as  he  does  his  men,  and  as  we  examine  it  more 
closely  we  discover  indeed  that  English  poetry  has  a 
cultivated  comic  language  which  we  Germans  wholly 
lack. 

The  comic  in  German  lies  preeminently  in  the  idea, 
less  in  the  treatment  or  style.  We  admire  Lichtenberg's 
abounding  wealth;  he  has  at  his  command  a  whole 
world  of  knowledge  and  relations  to  mix  like  a  pack 
of  cards  and  deal  them  out  roguishly  at  pleasure.  With 
Blumauer  too,  whose  compositions  in  verse  certainly 
possess  the  comic  spirit,  it  is  especially  the  sharp 
contrast  between  old  and  new,  aristocrats  and  com- 
mon people,  the  noble  and  the  mean,  that  delights  us. 
If  we  examine  further  we  find  that  the  German,  in 
order  to  be  amusing,  steps  back  several  centuries  and 
has  the  luck  to  be  peculiarly  ingenuous  and  engaging 
only  in  doggerel  rhyme. 
^  In  translating  Don  Juan  there  are  many  useful  things 
to  be  learned  from  the  Englishman.  There  is  only  one 
joke  which  we  cannot  imitate  from  him, — one  that 
gets  its  effect  by  a  singular  and  dubious  accent  in  words 
which  look  quite  differently  on  paper.  The  English 
linguist  may  judge  how  far  the  poet  in  this  case  has 
wantonly  exceeded  the  proper  limits. 

It  is  only  by  chance  that  the  verses  inserted  here 
happened  to  be  translated,  and  they  are  now  pub- 
lished not  as  a  pattern  but  for  their  suggestiveness.  All 
206 


Byron's  "Don  Juan" 

our  talented  translators  ought  to  try  their  skill  at  least 
partly  upon  them;  they  will  have  to  permit  assonances 
and  imperfect  rhymes  and  who  knows  what  besides.  A 
certain  laconic  treatment  will  also  be  necessary,  in  order 
to  give  the  full  quality  and  significance  of  this  auda- 
cious mischievousness.  Only  when  something  has  been 
accomplished  along  these  lines,  can  we  discuss  the  sub- 
ject further. 

Possibly  we  may  be  reproached  for  spreading  in 
translation  such  writings  as  these  through  Germany, 
thus  making  an  honest,  peaceful,  decorous  nation  ac- 
quainted with  the  most  immoral  works  that  the  art  of 
poety  ever  produced.  But  according  to  our  way  of 
thinking,  these  attempts  at  translation  should  not  be 
intended  for  the  press,  but  may  serve  as  excellent  prac- 
tice for  talented  brains.  Our  poets  may  then  discreetly 
apply  and  cultivate  what  they  acquire  in  this  way,  for 
the  pleasure  and  delight  of  their  countrymen.  No  par- 
ticular injury  to  morality  is  to  be  feared  from  the  pub- 
lication of  such  poems,  since  poets  and  authors  would 
have  to  cast  aside  all  restraint  to  be  more  corrupting 
than  the  papers  of  the  present  day. 


207 


CALDERON'S  DAUGHTER  OF  THE  AIR 
(1822) 

"De  nugis  hominum  seria  Veritas 
Uno  volvitur  assere." 

Certainly  if  any  course  of  human  follies,  presented  in 
lofty  style,  is  to  be  put  upon  the  stage,  then  this  drama 
should  carry  off  the  prize. 

We  often  allow  ourselves  to  be  charmed  by  the 
merits  of  a  work  of  art,  to  the  extent  that  the  last 
good  thing  which  has  come  before  us  we  consider  and 
discuss  as  the  greatest  we  have  ever  seen.  Still  this 
does  no  harm,  for  we  study  such  a  work  then  con  amove 
and  all  the  more  closely,  and  seek  to  discover  its  merits, 
in  order  that  our  judgment  may  be  justified.  For  this 
reason  I  do  not  hesitate  to  acknowledge  that  in  the 
Daughter  of  the  Air  I  admire  more  than  ever  Calderon's 
great  talent,  his  lofty  genius  and  clear  insight.  We 
should  not  fail  to  recognize  that  the  subject  is 
superior  to  his  other  plays,  in  that  the  story  is 
based  on  motives  purely  human,  and  there  is  no 
more  of  the  supernatural  element  than  is  necessary  for 
tlie  extraordinary  and  the  exceptional  in  humanaffairs 
to  develop  and  proceed  in  natural  fashion.  Only_the 
beginning  and  the  end  arejnarvelous ;  eyerything  eTse 
proceeds  ma" natural  course. 

WFat  there  is  to"  say  of  this  play  is  true  of  all  the 
plays  by  this  poet.  He  gives  us  in  no  way  a  real  view' 
of  nature;   he   is   rather   theatrical  throughout,  .eseji 


Calderon's  ''Daughter  of  the  Air" 

staeej.  Of  what_  we  call  iUusion,  especially  such  as 
touches  the  feelings,  we  find  not  a  trace.  Thejiesign  is 
clear  to  one's  niind,  the  scenes  follow  ofjiecessity,  m 
aTind  7)f  banet-ojrder,^lea^ing  ahJ  artistic  in  i"ts  way, 
and  suggest  the  technique  of  our  latest  comic  opera. 
The  inner  leading  motives  are  always  the  same,— conflict 
of  ^uty ,  passion^  .CQaditipns'^erivFd^  from  the  antithesis 
of  the  characters  and  the  existing  relations. 

The  main  action  proceeds  in  a  poetic  and  dignified 
manner ;  the  minor  scenes,  which  have  an  elegant  move- 
ment, in  the  style  of  the  minuet,  are  rhetorical,  dialecti- 
cal, sophisticated.  All  the  types  of  humanity  are  ex- 
hausted; there  is  not  missing  even  the  fool,  whose  sim- 
ple mind  makes  havoc  of  deception  whenever  a  pretense 
is  made  of  sympathy  and  kindness. 

Now  we  must  admit  on  reflection  that  human  situa- 
tions and  emotions  cannot  be  put  on  the  stage  in  their 
primitive  realism,  but  must  be  worked  up,  touched  up, 
idealized.  And  thus  we  find  them  in  this  case,  too;  the 
poet  however  stands  on  the  threshold  of  over-refinement, 
he  gives  us  a  quintessence  of  humanity. 

Shakespeare  on  the  contrary  gives  us  the  rich  ripe 
grape  from  the  vine.  According  to  our  taste  we  can 
enjoy  the  single  berries,  press  them  out  and  taste  or  sip 
the  juice  or  the  fermented  wine — however  we  treat  them 
we  are  refreshed.  With  Calderon,  on  the  other  hand, 
nothing  is  left  to  the  Choice  or  taste  of  the  spectator; 
we  receive  from  him  the  spirits  already  drawn  oiPand 
distilled,  seasoned  with _minxIspiC£S*Iai!_ffivore3^ 
sweets ;  we  must  acceptjthe  beverage  as  it  is,  as^ajdeli- 
ciqus  andj^alatable  stimulant:5^or^  else^  ^^^Hl_^.  '^^' 

But  the  reason  for  our  giving  the  Daughter  of  the 
Air  so  high  a  place  has  already  been  suggested ;  it  is  f a- 

209 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

vored  by  its  excellent  subject-matter.  For  we  object  to 
seeing  a  noble  and  free  man,  as  in  several  of  Calderon's 
plays,  indulging  in  dark  error  and  lending  his  reason 
to  indiscretions  and  folly ;  here  we  have  a  quarrel  with 
the  poet  himself,  since  his  material  offends  us,  whereas 
his  manner  charms.  This  is  the  case  in  The  Devotion  of 
the  Cross  and  in  Daybreak  in  Copacabana. 

In  this  connection  we  may  say  in  print  what 
we  have  often  expressed  privately,  that  we  must 
regard  it  as  one  of  the  greatest  advantages  of  life 
that  Shakespeare  enjoyed,  that  he  was  born  and 
brought  up  as  a  Protestant.  He  appears  always  as  a 
human  being,  with  a  complete  faith  and  confidence  in  hu- 
man values  and  affairs:  error  and  superstition  he  feels 
to  be  beneath  him,  and  only  toys  with  them,  compelling 
the  supernatural  to  serve  his  purposes.  Tragic  ghosts, 
droll  goblins  he  summons  to  his  ends,  in  which  every- 
thing is  clarified  and  cleansed  of  superstition,  so  that 
the  poet  never  feels  the  dilemma  of  being  compelled  to 
deify  the  absurd,  the  saddest  downfall  which  mankind, 
conscious  of  possessing  reason,  can  experience. 

Returning  to  the  Daughter  of  the  Air,  this  question 
suggests  itself:  If  we  are  now  enabled  to  transport 
ourselves  to  so  remote  an  atmosphere,  without  know- 
ing the  locality  or  understanding  the  language,  to  enter 
familiarly  Into  a  foreign  literature  without  previous 
historical  research,  and  to  bring  home  to  ourselves  in 
one  example  the  quality  and  flavor  of  a  certain  age, 
the  mind  and  genius  of  a  people — to  whom  do  we  owe 
thanks  for  all  this?  Evidently  to  the  translator,  who 
all  his  life  and  with  laborious  industry  has  thus  utilized 
his  talent  to  our  benefit.  Our  warmest  thanks,  there- 
fore, we  present  to  Dr.  Gries;  he  has  given  us  a  gift 
210 


Calderon's  ''Daughter  of  the  Air'' 

whose  value  is  overwhelming,  a  gift  in  considering  which 
we  gladly  refrain  from  all  comparisons,  because  it  de- 
lights us  by  its  clearness,  wins  us  by  its  charm,  and  by 
the  complete  harmony  of  all  its  parts  convinces  us  that 
nothing  in  it  could  or  should  have  been  diiferent. 

Such  excellence  older  readers  are  likely  to  prize  more 
highly,  for  they  like  to  enjoy  in  comfort  a  perfectly 
adequate  presentation;  younger  men,  on  the  contrary, 
actively  engaged  in  work,  cooperating  and  struggling, 
do  not  always  acknowledge  merit  which  they  themselves 
hope  to  emulate. 

All  honor  then  to  the  translator,  who  concentrated 
his  energies  on  a  single  point,  and  went  ahead  in  a 
single  direction,  so  that  we  could  enjoy  in  a  thousand 
different  ways! 


211 


MOLIERE'S  MISANTHROPE 

(1828) 

Histoire  de  la  Vie  et  des  Outrages  de  Moliere,  par  J. 
Taschereau.     Paris,  1828. 

This  work  deserves  to  be  read  carefully  by  all  true 
lovers  of  literature,  because  it  gives  us  new  insight  into 
the  qualities  and  individuality  of  a  great  man.  It  will 
also  be  welcome  to  his  devoted  admirers,  although  they 
hardly  need  this  in  order  to  treasure  him  highly;  to 
the  attentive  reader  he  has  revealed  himself  sufficiently 
in  his  works. 

Examine  the  Misanthrope  carefully  and  ask  your- 
self whether  a  poet  has  ever  represented  his  inner  spirit 
more  completely  or  more  admirably.  We  can  well  call 
the  content  and  treatment  of  this  play  "  tragic."  Such 
an  impression  at  least  it  has  always  left  with  us,  be- 
cause that  mood  is  brought  before  our  mind's  eye  which, 
often  in  itself  brings  us  to  despair,  and  seems  as  if  it 
would  make  the  world  unbearable. 

-  Here  is  represented  the  type  of  man  who  despite 
great  cultivation  has  yet  remained  natural,  and  who 
with  himself,  as  well  as  others,  would  like  only  too  well 
to  express  himself  with  complete  truth  and  sincerity. 
But  we  see  him  in  conflict  with  the  social  world,  where 
one  cannot  move  without  dissimulation  and  shallowness. 

In  contrast  to  such  a  type  Timon  is  merely  a  comic 
character.  I  wish  that  a  talented  poet  would  depict 
such  a  visionary  who  was  always  deceiving  himself  as  to 
the  world,  and  then  was  greatly  put  out  with  it,  as  if 
it  had  deceived  him. 
212 


OLD  GERMAN  FOLKSONGS 

(1806) 

Des  Knahen  Wunderhorn.  Old  German  Songs,  edited 
by  Achim  von  Arnim  and  Klemens  Brentano.  Hei- 
delberg, 1806. 

We  are  decidedly  of  the  opinion  that  for  the  present 
criticism  should  not  concern  itself  with  this  collection. 
The  editors  have  collected  and  arranged  this  volume 
with  such  love  and  diligence,  such  good  taste  and  deli- 
cacy of  feeling,  that  their  countrymen  should  first  of 
all  show  their  gratitude  for  this  loving  care  by  their 
good-will,  their  interest,  and  their  sympathetic  appre- 
ciation. This  little  book  ought  to  be  found  in  every 
home  in  which  lively  and  healthy  people  dwell, — at  the 
window,  under  the  mirror,  or  wherever  else  songbooks 
and  cookbooks  are  usually  found,  so  that  it  may  be 
opened  in  any  happy  or  unhappy  mood,  and  one  may 
always  find  something  which  strikes  a  similar  or  a  new 
chord,  even  though  one  must  perhaps  turn  over  a  few 
pages. 

But  the  most  fitting  place  for  this  volume  would  be 
upon  the  piano  of  a  lover  or  a  master  of  music,  so  that 
full  justice  might  be  done  the  songs  by  setting  them  to 
old  familiar  tunes,  or  suitable  tunes  might  be  adapted 
to  them,  or,  God  willing,  new  and  striking  melodies 
might  be  composed  through  their  inspiration. 

If  these  songs  were  then  borne  from  ear  to  ear,  from 

213 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

mouth  to  mouth,  clothed  in  their  own  melodious  har- 
mony, if  they  gradually  returned  regenerated  and  en- 
hanced in  beauty  to  the  people  from  whom  they,  so  to 
speak,  have  in  part  sprung,  then  we  might  truly  say  that 
the  little  book  had  fulfilled  its  mission,  and  could  now  be 
lost  again  in  its  written  or  printed  form,  because  it 
had  become  part  and  parcel  of  the  life  and  culture  of 
the  nation. 

But  since  in  our  modern  times,  especially  in  Ger- 
many, nothing  seems  to  exist  or  to  have  any  effect  un- 
less it  is  written  about  again  and  again,  adjudged  and 
made  a  bone  of  contention,  a  few  remarks  may  not  im- 
properly be  introduced  here  about  this  collection, — a 
few  observations  which  may  not  enhance  our  enjoyment 
of  the  book,  but  at  least  will  not  impair  or  destroy  it. 

What  may  at  the  outset  be  said  unreservedly  in 
praise  of  the  collection  is  that  it  is  thoroughly  varied 
and  characteristic.  It  contains  more  than  two  hun- 
dred poems  of  the  last  three  centuries,  all  of  them  dif- 
fering so  much  from  one  another  in  sense,  conception, 
sound,  and  manner  that  the  same  criticism  cannot  ap- 
ply to  any  two  of  them.  We  shall  therefore  assume 
the  agreeable  task  of  characterizing  [some  of]  them  in 
order  as-  the  inspiration  of  the  moment  may  prompt  us : 

The   WunderJiorn.     Fairy-like,  child-like,  pleasing. 

The  Sultan's  Little  Daughter.  Tender  Christian  feeling,  charm- 
ing. 

Tell  and  His  Child.     Honest  and  solid. 

Grandmother  Snake-cook.  Deep,  enigmatic,  dramatic,  admira- 
bly handled. 

Isaiah's  Face.     Barbaric  grandeur. 

Fire  Incantation.  Appropriate  and  true  to  the  spirit  of  the 
brigand. 

Poor  Schwartenhals.     Roguish,   A'himsical,  jolly. 

Death  and  the  Maiden.  After  the  manner  of  the  Dance  of 
Death;  like  a  wood-cut;  admirable. 

214 


Old  German  Folksongs 


Nocturnal  Musicians.     Droll,  extravagant,  inimitable. 

The  Stubborn  Bride.     Humorous,  somewhat  grotesque. 

Cloister-shi/.     Capriciously  confused,  yet  to  the  purpose. 

T-fie  Braggart  Knight.  Very  good  'in  the  realistic-romantic 
manner. 

The  Black-broivn  Witch.  Rather  confused  in  transmission,  but 
the  theme  of  inestimable  value. 

Love   Without  Caste.     Romantic  twilight. 

The  Hospitality  of  Winter.  Written  with  a  great  deal  of  ele- 
gance. 

The  High-born  Maiden.  Christian  pedantry,  but  not  wholly  un- 
poetical. 

Love  Spins  no  Silh.  Charmingly  confused  and  therefore  rous- 
ing  the   imagination. 

The  Faith  of  an  Hussar.  Swiftness  and  lightness  expressed  in 
a  wonderful  way. 

The  Ratcatcher  of  Hameln.  Tends  toward  the  manner  of  the 
ballad-monger,  but  not  coarse. 

Tuck  Your  Dress,  Gretlein.  After  the  manner  of  vagabond 
poets;  unexpectedly  epigrammatic. 

The  Song  of  the  Ring.     Romantic  tenderness. 

The  Knight  and  the  Maiden.     Romantic  twilight;  powerful. 

Harvest  Song.  A  Catholic  funeral  hymn;  good  enough  to  be 
Protestant ! 

A  Surfeit  of  Learning.  A  gallant  piece;  but  the  pedant  cannot 
get  rid  of  his  learning. 

The  Fight  at  Murten.    Realistic,  probably  modernized. 

The  Haste  of  Time  in  God.  Christian,  somewhat  too  historical, 
but  quite  suited  to  its  subject,  and  very  good. 

Reveille.  Priceless  for  any  one  who  has  the  imagination  to 
understand   it. 

Drought.     Thought,  feeling,  presentation  everywhere  right. 

The  Drummer  Boy.  Lively  presentation  of  a  distressing  inci- 
dent. A  poem  which  the  discriminating  will  find  it  difficult  to 
match. 

Should  and  Must.  Perfect  in  plan,  although  here  in  a  dismem- 
bered  and    curiously   restored   condition. 

A  Friendly  Service.     German  romanticism,  pious  and  pleasing. 

Cradle  Song.  Rhyming  nonsense,  perfectly  suited  to  put  one 
to  sleep. 

Miller's  Farewell.  To  one  who  can  grasp  the  situation,  a  price- 
less thing;  but  the  first  stanza  requires  an  emendation. 

Abbot  Neidhard  and  His  Monks.  A  prank  of  Till  Eulenspiegel 
of  the  very  best  sort,  and  very  well  told. 

The  Horrible  Marriage.  An  extraordinary  case;  in  the  ballad- 
monger's   manner,   but   admirably  handled.  " 

The  Excellent  Comrade.  Nonsense;  but  happy  the  man  who 
can  sing  it  agreeably ! 

Unrequited  Love.  Very  good,  but  tending  toward  a  rather 
Philistine  prose. 

215 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

The  Little  Tree.  Full  of  longing  and  playfulness,  yet  full  of 
fervor. 

Mesalliance.  Excellent  enigmatic  fable,  but  a  clearer  treat- 
ment might  have  been  more  pleasing  to  the  reader. 

With  these  impromptu  characterizations — for  how 
could  they  be  other  than  impromptu.'^ — we  do  not  in- 
tend to  anticipate  the  judgment  of  any  readers  of  the 
book,  and  least  of  all  those  readers  who  by  their  own 
lyric  enjoyment  and  the  appreciation  of  a  sympathetic 
heart  can  get  more  from  the  poems  themselves  than  any 
brief  characterizations  like  ours  can  ever  give  them. 
We  should  like,  however,  in  conclusion  to  say  some- 
thing about  the  value  of  the  collection  as  a  whole. 

We  have  been  accustomed  for  years  to  give  the  name 
of  "  folksongs  "  to  this  species  of  poetry,  not  because 
it  is  really  composed  by  the  people  or  for  the  people, 
but  because  it  embraces  in  itself  something  so  vigorous 
and  wholesome  that  the  healthy  stock  of  the  nation  un- 
derstands it,  remembers  it,  appropriates  it,  and  at 
times  propagates  it.  Poetry  of  this  kind  is  as  true 
poetry  as  can  possibly  exist.  It  has  an  incredible 
charm  even  for  us  who  stand  on  a  higher  plane  of  cul- 
ture, just  as  the  sight  of  young  people  and  the  memory 
of  one's  own  youth  have  for  old  age.  Art  in  them  is  in 
conflict  with  nature;  and  it  is  because  of  their  gradual 
development,  their  mutual  influence,  and  their  striving 
for  form  that  these  songs  seem  to  seek  a  further  per- 
fection when  they  have  already  reached  their  goal. 
True  poetic  genius,  wherever  it  appears,  is  perfect  in 
itself:  no  matter  what  imperfections  of  language,  of 
external  technique,  or  anything  else,  stand  in  its  way, 
it  possesses  the  higher  inner  form  which  ultimately  has 
everything  at  its  command,  and  often  in  an  obscure 
216 


Old  German  Folksongs 

and  imperfect  medium  produces  a  more  striking  effect 
than  it  can  later  produce  in  a  more  perfect  medium. 
The-vivid  poetic  perception  of  a  limited  state  or  condi- 
tion gives  to  what  is  purely  individual  a  universal 
significance,  finite  to  be  sure,  but  after  all  limitless  and 
unrestricted,  so  that  within  a  small  compass  we  fancy 
we  see  the  whole  world.  The  promptings  of  a  pro- 
found intuition  urge  the  poet  to  a  significant  brevity; 
and  what  would  seem  in  prose  unpardonably  topsy- 
turvy is  to  the  true  poetic  sense  a  necessity  and  a  vir- 
tue; even  a  solecism,  if  it  appeals  seriously  to  our 
whole  imagination,  stimulates  it  to  a  surprisingly  high 
degree  of  enjoyment. 

In  characterizing  the  individual  poems  we  avoided 
the  kind  of  formal  classification  which  may  more  read- 
ily be  made  in  the  future  when  several  authentic  and 
typical  examples  of  every  kind  have  been  collected.  But 
we  cannot  conceal  our  own  preference  for  those  songs 
in  which  lyric,  dramatic,  and  epic  treatment  is  inter- 
woven in  such  a  way  that  a  problem,  at  first  shrouded 
in  mystery,  is  finally  solved  skilfully,  or  even,  if  you 
will,  epigrammatically.  The  well-known  ballad,  "  Why 
dois  your  brand  sae  drop  wi'  bluid,  Edward,  Edward?  " 
is,  especially  in  the  original,  the  most  perfect  example 
of  this  species  of  poetry. 

We  hope  that  the  editors  will  be  encouraged  to  pub- 
lish in  the  near  future  another  volume  of  poems  from 
the  rich  store  collected  by  them  as  well  as  from  those 
already  printed.  We  trust  that  when  they  do  this  they 
will  guard  themselves  carefully  against  the  singsong 
of  the  Minnesingers,  the  blatant  coarseness  and  the 
platitudes   of  the  Mastersingers,   as   well   as    against 

217 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

everything  monkish  and  pedantic.  If  they  should  collect 
a  second  volume  of  these  German  songs,  they  might  also 
be  asked  to  select  songs  of  the  same  kind  from  foreign 
nations  and  to  give  them  in  the  original  and  in  trans- 
lations that  are  either  already  extant  or  may  be  made 
by  them  for  this  special  purpose.  The  most  of  these, 
to  be  sure,  will  be  from  the  English,  fewer  from  the 
French,  some  of  a  different  type  from  the  Spanish,  and 
almost  none  from  the  Italian. 

If  from  the  outset  we  have  doubted  the  competence 
of  criticism,  even  in  its  highest  sense,  to  judge  this 
work,  we  have  all  the  more  reason  to  ignore  that  kind 
of  research  which  attempts  to  separate  the  songs  that 
are  genuine  from  those  that  have  been  more  or  less 
restored.  The  editors,  so  far  as  it  is  possible  in  these 
later  times,  have  caught  the  spirit  of  their  task,  and  we 
ought  to  be  grateful  to  them  even  for  those  poems  which 
have  been  oddly  restored  or  made  up  of  heterogeneous 
parts  or  are  absolutely  spurious.  Who  does  not  know 
what  a  song  has  to  undergo  when  it  has  been  for  some 
time  in  the  mouth  of  the  people,  and  not  merely  un- 
educated people  either?  Why  should  he  who  finally 
writes  it  down  and  inserts  it  in  a  collection  with  other 
poems  not  have  a  certain  personal  right  to  it?  We 
do  not  possess  any  poetic  or  sacred  book  of  earlier 
times  which  has  not  depended  for  its  final  form  on  the 
skill  or  whim  of  him  who  first  wrote  it  down  or  some 
later  copyist. 

If  we  accept  the  printed  collection  lying  before  us 
from  this  point  of  view,  and  with  a  grateful  and  kindly 
spirit,  we  may  charge  the  editors  all  the  more  ear- 
nestly to  keep  their  poetic  archives  pure,  lofty,  and  in 
good  order.  It  serves  no  purpose  to  print  everything; 
218 


Old  German  Folksongs 

but  thej  will  place  the  whole  nation  in  their  debt  if 
they  contribute  toward  that  thorough,  faithful,  and 
intelligent  history  of  our  poetry  and  our  poetic  culture 
which  from  now  on  must  be  the  ultimate  goal  of 
scholars. 


219 


FOLKSONGS  AGAIN  COMMENDED 

(1823) 

My  old  love  for  original  folksongs  has  not  lessened,  but 
has  rather  been  increased  by  receiving  valuable  com- 
munications from  many  quarters. 

In  particular,  I  have  received  from  the  East,  some 
separately,  and  some  in  collections,  such  songs  of 
many  different  peoples;  they  extend  from  Olympus  to 
the  Baltic  Sea,  and  from  that  line  towards  the  north- 
east. 

My  hesitation  in  publishing  any  of  them  is  due  partly 
to  the  fact  that  many  varied  interests  have  drawn  me 
here  and  there  and  so  prevented  me,  but  also  more  par- 
ticularly to  the  following  circumstance. 

All  true  national  poems  have  a  small  circle  of  ideas, 
to  which  they  are  always  limited,  and  in  which  they  re- 
volve. For  that  reason  they  become  monotonous  in 
mass,  because  they  express  one  and  the  same  limited 
situation. 

Examine  the  six  modern  Greek  songs  inserted  above; 
every  one  will  admire  the  powerful  contrast  between 
the  virile  freedom  of  spirit  in  the  wilderness  and  a  gov- 
ernment, orderly  indeed,  but  still  barbaric  and  of  in- 
sufficient power.  A  dozen  or  more  would  be  sufficient 
to  exhibit  this  refractory  character  in  them,  and  show 
us  repetitions  such  as  we  find  in  our  own  folk- 
songs, where  we  often  come  upon  more  or  less  happy  va- 
220 


Folksongs  Again  Commended 

riations  of  the  same  theme,  as  well  as  mixed  and  hetero- 
geneous fragments. 

It-  is  remarkable,  nevertheless,  how  much  the  indi- 
vidual peoples  mentioned  above  differ  among  themselves 
in  their  songs ;  this  characteristic  we  shall  not  discuss 
abstractly,  but  will  rather  develop  by  means  of  exam- 
ples from  time  to  time  in  the  ensuing  numbers. 

Since  contributions  for  this  purpose  will  be  highly 
welcome  from  all  quarters,  we  request  the  friend  who 
showed  us  at  Wiesbaden  in  the  summer  of  1815  some 
Greek  songs  in  the  original  and  in  a  very  happy  transla- 
tion, promising  to  send  us  soon  a  copy  which  never  how- 
ever appeared,  to  get  in  touch  with  us  again  and  co- 
operate with  us  in  this  praiseworthy  undertaking. 


221 


LAURENCE  STERNE 

(1827) 

In  the  swift  progress  of  literary,  as  of  human,  culture 
it  happens  commonly  that  we  forget  the  person  to  whom 
we  owe  the  first  stimulus,  the  original  influence.  What 
is,  and  what  flourishes  here  and  now,  we  believe  had  to 
be  so  and  had  to  happen  so.  But  in  this  we  are  wrong, 
for  we  lose  sight  of  those  who  guided  us  to  the  right 
path.  From  this  point  of  view  I  call  attention  to  a 
man  who  first  gave  the  stimulus  to  the  great  epoch  in 
the  second  half  of  the  last  century,  an  epoch  of  clearer 
human  knowledge,  nobler  toleration,  gentler  humanity. 
Of  this  man,  to  whom  I  owe  so  much,  I  am  often  re- 
minded, especially  when  the  talk  is  of  truth  and  error, 
which  fluctuate  here  and  there  among  mankind.  A  third 
word  may  be  added  of  gentler  meaning,  that  is,  "  singu- 
larity "  (Eigenheit),  for  there  are  certain  human 
phenomena  which  can  be  best  expressed  by  this  term. 
Viewed  externally  they  are  erroneous,  but  from  within 
full  of  truth,  and  rightly  considered,  of  the  highest 
psychological  importance.  They  are  those  qualities 
which  constitute  the  individual ;  the  universal  is  thereby 
specified,  and  in  the  most  peculiar  of  them  there  al- 
ways shines  some  intelligence,  reason,  and  good-will 
which  charms  us  and  fetters  us.  From  this  standpoint, 
"  Yorick "  Sterne,  revealing  in  the  tenderest  way 
the  human  in  men,  has  called  these  "  singularities,"  in 
so  far  as  they  express  themselves  in  action,  "  ruling 
222 


Laurence  Sterne 

passions."  For  certainly  they  are  what  drive  men  in 
a  certain  direction,  push  them  along  on  a  consistent 
track,  and  without  requiring  reflection,  conviction,  pur- 
pose or  strength  of  will,  keep  them  continually  in  life 
and  motion.  It  is  immediately  apparent  how  closely 
related  habit  is  to  them;  for  it  promotes  that  con- 
venience in  which  our  idiosyncrasies  love  to  saunter  un- 
disturbed. 


223 


THE  ENGLISH  REVIEWERS 

(1821) 

English  critics,  as  we  have  come  to  know  them  from 
their  various  Reviews,  deserve  a  great  deal  of  respect. 
Their  acquaintance  not  only  with  their  own  literature, 
but  also  with  that  of  other  countries,  is  most  gratify- 
ing; the  seriousness  and  the  thoroughness  with  which 
they  go  to  work  arouse  our  admiration,  and  we  are  glad 
to  confess  that  much  may  be  learned  from  them.  More- 
over, we  find  ourselves  very  favorably  impressed  by  the 
attitude  these  men  take  toward  their  calling  as  critics 
and  the  respect  which  they  have  for  the  intelligence  of 
the  public, — a  public,  to  be  sure,  which  is  very  atten- 
tive to  all  things  written  and  spoken,  but  is  probably 
hard  to  satisfy,  and  ever  disposed  to  contradict  and 
argue. 

No  matter  how  thorough  and  comprehensive  the 
presentation  of  a  case  by  an  attorney  before  a  body  of 
judges  or  by  a  speaker  before  a  provincial  diet  may 
be,  some  opponent  will  very  soon  come  to  the  fore  with 
forcible  arguments ;  the  attentive  and  critical  hearers 
will  themselves  be  divided,  and  many  an  important  mat- 
ter is  often  decided  by  a  very  small  majority. 

Such  a  spirit  of  opposition,  even  though  passive,  we 
occasionally  assume  toward  critics,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  whose  knowledge  of  facts  we  by  no  means  deny 
224 


The  English  Reviewers 

and  whose  premises  we  often  grant,  but  whose  conclu- 
sions nevertheless  we  do  not  share. 

Still  we  must  be  especially  forbearing  to  the  English 
when  they  appear  harsh  and  unjust  toward  foreign  pro- 
ductions ;  for  those  who  count  Shakespeare  among  their 
forebears  may  -well  allow  themselves  to  be  carried  away 
by  their  pride  of  ancestry. 


225 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  IN  GOETHE'S  YOUTH 

(1811-14) 

So  much  has  been  written  about  the  condition  of  Ger- 
man literature  at  that  time,^  and  to  such  good  purpose, 
that  every  one  who  takes  any  interest  in  it  can  obtain 
full  information ;  the  opinions  with  regard  to  it,  too, 
are  fairly  unanimous ;  so  that  anything  I  say  about  it 
here,  in  my  fragmentary  and  desultory  fashion,  is  not 
so  much  an  analysis  of  its  characteristics  as  of  its  rela- 
tion to  me.  I  will  therefore  first  speak  of  those 
branches  which  especially  react  upon  the  public,  those 
two  hereditary  foes  of  all  easy-going  life,  and  of  all 
cheerful,  self-sufficient,  living  poetry: — I  mean,  satire 
and  criticism. 

In  quiet  times  every  one  desires  to  live  after  his  own 
fashion ;  the  citizen  wishes  to  carry  on  his  trade  or  his 
business,  and  then  enjoy  himself;  so,  too,  the  author 
likes  to  produce  something,  see  his  work  published,  and, 
in  the  consciousness  of  having  done  something  good  and 
useful,  looks,  if  not  for  remuneration,  at  any  rate  for 
praise.  From  this  state  of  tranquillity  the  citizen  is 
roused  by  the  satirist,  the  author  by  the  critic,  and  so 
it  comes  that  peaceful  society  is  rudely  disturbed. 

The  literary  epoch  in  which  I  was  born  developed  out 
of  the  preceding  one  by  opposition.  Germany,  so  long 
inundated  by  foreign  people,  pervaded  by  other  nations, 
employing  foreign  languages  in  learned  and  diplomatic 

1  About  1765-68. 

226 


German  Literature  in  Goetlie's  Youth 

transactions,  could  not  possibly  cultivate  her  own. 
Together  with  so  many  new  ideas,  innumerable  strange 
words  were  obtruded  necessarily  and  unnecessarily  upon 
her,  and  even  for  objects  already  known  people  were 
induced  to  make  use  of  foreign  expressions  and  turns  of 
language.  The  Germans,  brutalized  by  nearly  two  cen- 
turies of  misery  and  confusion,  took  lessons  from  the 
French  in  manners  and  from  the  Latins  in  the  art  of 
expression.  This  art  ought  to  have  been  cultivated 
in  German,  since  the  use  of  French  and  Latin  idioms, 
and  their  partial  translation  into  German,  made  both 
their  social  and  business  style  ridiculous.  Besides  this, 
they  recklessly  adopted  figures  of  speech  belonging  to 
the  southern  languages,  and  employed  them  most  ex- 
travagantly. In  the  same  way  the  stately  ceremonious- 
ness  of  prince-like  Roman  citizens  had  been  transferred 
to  the  educated  circles  in  German  provincial  towns. 
As  a  result,  they  nowhere  felt  themselves  at  home,  least 
of  all  in  their  own  houses. 

But  in  this  epoch  works  of  genius  had  already  ap- 
peared, and  the  German  independence  of  mind  and  en- 
joyment of  life  began  to  assert  themselves.  This  cheer- 
ful spirit,  combined  with  an  honest  sincerity,  led  to  the 
demand  for  purity  and  naturalness  in  writing,  with- 
out the  intermixture  of  foreign  words,  and  in  accord- 
ance with  the  dictates  of  plain  common  sense.  By  these 
praiseworthy  endeavors,  however,  the  flood-gates  were 
thrown  open  to  a  prolix  national  insipidity,  nay,  the 
dam  was  broken  down,  and  an  inundation  was  bound  to 
follow.  However,  a  stiff  pedantry  continued  for  some 
time  to  hold  sway  in  the  four  learned  professions,  and 
eventually,  at  a  much  later  date,  fled  for  refuge  first 
to  one  and  then  to  another. 

227 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Men  of  parts,  children  of  nature  looking  freely  about 
them,  had  therefore  two  objects  on  which  they  could 
exercise  their  faculties,  against  which  they  could  direct 
their  energies,  and,  as  the  matter  was  of  no  great  im- 
portance, vent  their  mischievousness ;  these  were,  on  the 
one  hand,  a  language  disfigured  by  foreign  words,  forms, 
and  turns  of  speech ;  and  on  the  other,  the  worthlessness 
of  such  writings  as  had  been  careful  to  avoid  those 
faults ;  but  it  never  occurred  to  any  one  that  each  evil 
was  being  combated  by  fostering  the  other. 

Liscow,  a  daring  young  man,  first  ventured  to  attack 
by  name  a  shallow,  silly  writer,  whose  foolish  behavior 
soon  gave  him  an  opportunity  for  yet  more  drastic 
treatment.  He  then  sought  other  subjects,  invariably 
idirecting  his  satire  against  particular  objects  and  per- 
sons, whom  he  despised  and  sought  to  render  despicable ; 
indee'd,  he  pursued  them  with  passionate  hatred.  But 
his  career  was  short ;  for  he  died  early,  and  was  remem- 
bered only  as  a  restless,  irregular  youth.  The  talent 
and  character  shown  in  what  he  did,  in  spite  of  the 
smallness  of  his  production,  may  well  have  seemed  valu- 
able to  his  countrymen:  for  the  Germans  have  always 
shown  a  peculiar  piety  towards  the  promise  of  genius 
prematurely  cut  off.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  in  our  early 
youth  Liscow  was  praised  and  commended  to  us  as  an 
excellent  satirist,  who  might  justly  claim  preference 
even  before  the  universally  beloved  Rabener.  But  we 
did  not  gain  much  from  him ;  for  the  only  thing  we  dis- 
covered from  his  works  was  that  he  considered  the  ab- 
surd absurd,  and  this  seemed  to  us  a  matter  of  course. 

Rabener,  well  educated,  grown  up  under  good  school 
discipline,  of  a  cheerful  and  by  no  means  passionate 
or  malicious  disposition,  turned  to  general  satire.  His 
228 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  YoutJi 

censure  of  so-called  vices  and  follies  is  the  outcome  of 
clear-sighted  and  unimpassioned  common  sense,  and  of 
a  definite  moral  conception  as  to  what  the  world  ought 
to  be.  His  denunciation  of  faults  and  failings  is  harm- 
less and  cheerful ;  and  in  order  to  excuse  even  the  slight 
daring  of  his  writings,  he  assumes  that  the  attempt  to 
improve  fools  by  ridicule  is  not  in  vain. 

Rabener's  personal  character  was  such  as  we  do  not 
often  meet.  A  thorough  and  strict  man  of  business, 
he  did  his  duty,  and  so  gained  the  good  opinion  of  his 
fellow-townsmen  and  the  confidence  of  his  superiors ; 
at  the  same  time,  by  way  of  relaxation,  he  indulged  in 
a  genial  contempt  for  all  that  immediately  surrounded 
him.  Learned  pedants,  vain  youngsters,  every  sort  of 
narrowness  and  conceit,  he  made  fun  of  rather  than 
satirized,  and  even  his  satire  expressed  no  scorn.  Just 
in  the  same  way  he  jested  about  his  own  condition,  his 
unhappiness,  his  life,  and  his  death. 

There  is  little  of  the  aesthetic  in  the  manner  in  which 
this  writer  treats  his  subjects.  In  external  form  he 
is  indeed  varied  enough,  but  throughout  he  makes  too 
much  use  of  direct  irony,  that  is,  in  praising  the  blame- 
worthy and  blaming  the  praiseworthy,  whereas  this 
rhetorical  device  should  be  adopted  extremely  spar- 
ingly; for,  in  the  long  run,  it  becomes  annoying  to 
the  clear-sighted,  perplexes  the  foolish,  but  appeals,  it 
is  true,  to  the  great  majority,  who  without  special  in- 
tellectual effort  imagine  themselves  cleverer  than  other 
people.  But  all  that  he  presents  to  us,  whatever  its 
form,  bears  witness  to  his  rectitude,  cheerfulness,  and 
equanimity,  so  that  we  are  always  favorably  impressed. 
The  unbounded  admiration  of  his  own  times  was  a  con- 
sequence of  these  moral  excellencies. 

229 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

It  was  natural  that  people  should  try  to  discover 
originals  for  his  general  descriptions  and  should  suc- 
ceed ;  and  consequently  he  was  attacked  on  this  score 
by  certain  individuals :  his  over-long  apologies  denying 
that  his  satire  was  personal,  prove  the  annoyance  to 
which  he  was  subjected.  Some  of  his  letters  do  honor 
to  him  both  as  a  man  and  an  author.  The  confidential 
epistle  in  which  he  describes  the  siege  of  Dresden  and 
the  loss  of  his  house,  his  effects,  his  writings,  and  his 
wigs,  without  having  his  equanimity  in  the  least  shaken 
or  his  cheerfulness  clouded,  is  most  estimable,  although 
his  contemporaries  and  fellow-citizens  could  not  for- 
give him  his  happy  temperament.  The  letter  in  which 
he  speaks  of  the  decay  of  his  strength  and  of  his  ap- 
proaching death  is  in  the  highest  degree  worthy  of  re- 
spect, and  Rabener  Reserves  to  be  honored  as  a  saint 
by  all  happy  sensible  people,  who  cheerfully  accept  their 
earthly  lot. 

I  tear  myself  away  from  him  reluctantly,  and  merely 
add  this  remark:  his  satire  refers  throughout  to  the 
middle  classes ;  he  lets  us  see  here  and  there  that  he  is 
also  acquainted  with  the  upper  classes,  but  does  not 
hold  it  advisable  to  discuss  them.  It  may  be  said  that 
he  had  no  successor;  it  would  be  impossible  to  point 
to  any  one  at  all  equal,  or  even  similar  to  him. 

Let  us  turn  to  criticism ;  and  first  of  all  to  the  theo- 
retic attempts.  It  is  not  going  too  far  to  say  that 
idealism  had  at  that  time  fled  from  the  world  to  reli- 
gion; it  was  hardly  discoverable  even  in  ethics;  of  a 
supreme  principle  in  art  no  one  had  a  notion.  They 
put  Gottsched's  Critical  Art  of  Poetry  into  our  hands; 
it  was  useful  and  instructive  enough,  for  it  gave  us 
historical  information  about  the  various  kinds  of 
S30 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Youth 

poetry,  as  well  as  about  rhythm  and  its  different  move- 
ments ;  poetic  genius  was  taken  for  granted !  But  be- 
sides'this  the  poet  was  to  have  education,  and  even 
learning,  he  should  possess  taste,  and  other  things  of 
the  same  nature.  Finally,  we  were  referred  to  Hor- 
ace's Art  of  Poetry;  we  gazed  at  single  golden  maxims 
of  this  invaluable  work  with  veneration,  but  did  not 
know  in  the  least  what  to  do  with  it  as  a  whole,  or  how 
to  use  it. 

The  Swiss  came  to  the  front  as  Gottsched's  antag- 
onists ;  hence  they  must  intend  to  do  something  differ- 
ent, to  accomplish  something  better:  accordingly  we 
heard  that  they  were,  in  fact,  superior.  Breitinger's 
Critical  Art  of  Poetry  was  now  studied.  Here  we  en- 
tered a  wider  field,  or,  properly  speaking,  only  a  greater 
labyrinth,  which  was  the  more  wearisome,  as  an  able 
man  in  whom  we  had  confidence  drove  us  about  in  it. 
Let  a  brief  review  justify  these  words. 

As  yet  no  one  had  been  able  to  discover  the  essential 
principle  of  poetry ;  it  was  too  spiritual  and  too  evanes- 
cent. Painting,  an  art  which  one  could  keep  within 
sight,  and  follow  step  by  step  with  the  external  senses, 
seemed  more  adapted  to  such  an  end;  the  English  and 
French  had  already  theorized  about  the  arts  of  paint- 
ing and  sculpture,  and  it  was  thought  possible  to  ex- 
plain the  nature  of  poetry  by  drawing  a  comparison 
from  these  arts.  Painting  presented  images  to  the 
eyes,  poetry  to  the  imagination ;  poetical  images,  there- 
fore, were  the  first  thing  to  be  taken  into  consideration. 
Similes  came  first,  then  descriptions  and  whatever  it 
was  possible  to  represent  to  the  external  senses  came 
under  discussion. 

Images,  then!     But  whence  should  these  images  be 

231 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

taken  except  from  nature?  The  painter  obviously  imi- 
tated nature;  why  not  the  poet  also?  But  nature,  just 
as  she  is,  cannot  be  imitated:  she  contains  so  much 
that  is  insignificant  and  unsuitable,  that  a  selection 
must  be  made;  but  what  determines  the  choice?  what  is 
important  must  be  selected;  but  what  is  important? 

The  answer  to  this  question  the  Swiss  probably  took 
a  long  time  to  consider:  for  they  arrived  at  an  idea 
which  is  indeed  strange,  but  pretty,  even  amusing;  for 
they  said  what  is  new  is  always  most  important:  and 
after  they  had  considered  this  for  a  while,  they  dis- 
covered that  the  marvelous  is  always  newer  than  any- 
thing else. 

Apparently  they  now  had  the  essentials  of  poetry 
before  them,  but  it  had  further  to  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration that  the  marvelous  may  be  barren  and  with- 
out human  interest.  This  human  interest  which  is  in- 
dispensable must  be  moral,  and  would  then  obviously 
tend  to  the  improvement  of  man ;  hence  that  poem  would 
fulfil  its  ultimate  aim  which  in  addition  to  its  merits 
possessed  utility.  It  was  the  fulfilment  of  all  these  de- 
mands which  constituted  the  test  they  wished  to  apply 
to  the  various  kinds  of  poetry,  and  that  species  which 
imitated  nature,  and  furthermore  was  marvelous,  and 
at  the  same  time  moral  in  purpose  and  effect,  they  placed 
first  and  highest.  And  after  much  deliberation  this 
great  preeminence  was  finally  ascribed,  with  the  utmost 
conviction,  to  ^sop's  fables ! 

Strange  as  such  a  deduction  may  now  appear,  it  had 
the  most  decided  influence  on  the  best  minds.  That 
Gellert  and  subsequently  Lichtwer  devoted  themselves 
to  this  department  of  literature,  that  even  Lessing  at- 
232 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Youth 

tempted  to  do  work  in  it,  that  so  many  others  applied 
their  talents  to  it,  speaks  for  the  faith  they  put  in  this 
species  of  poetry.  Theory  and  practice  always  act 
upon  each  other;  one  can  see  from  men's  works  what 
opinions  they  hold ;  and,  from  their  opinions,  it  is  pos- 
sible to  predict  what  they  will  do. 

Yet  we  must  not  dismiss  our  Swiss  theory  without 
doing  it  justice.  Bodmer,  with  all  the  pains  he  took, 
remained  in  theory  and  practice  a  child  all  his  life. 
Breitinger  was  an  able,  learned,  sagacious  man,  who, 
after  making  a  careful  survey,  recognized  all  the  re- 
quirements to  be  fulfilled  by  a  poem;  in  fact,  it  can  be 
shown  that  he  was  dimly  conscious  of  the  deficiencies 
of  his  method.  Noteworthy,  for  instance,  is  his  query, 
whether  a  certain  descriptive  poem  by  Konig,  on  the 
Review  Camp  of  Augustus  the  Second,  is  properly 
speaking  a  poem;  and  the  answer  to  it  displays  good 
sense.  But  it  may  serve  for  his  complete  justifica- 
tion that,  after  starting  on  a  wrong  track  and  nearly 
completing  his  circle,  he  yet  discovers  the  main  issue, 
and  at  the  end  of  his  book,  as  a  kind  of  supplement, 
feels  it  incumbent  on  him  to  urge  the  representation  of 
manners,  character,  passions,  in  short  the  inner  man — 
which  surely  constitutes  the  chief  theme  of  poetry. 

It  may  well  be  imagined  into  what  perplexity  young 
minds  were  thrown  by  such  maxims  torn  from  their 
contexts,  half-understood  laws,  and  random  dogmas. 
We  clung  to  examples,  and  there,  too,  were  no  better 
off:  the  foreign  as  well  as  the  classical  ones  were  too 
remote  from  us;  behind  the  best  native  ones  always 
lurked  a  distinct  individuality,  the  good  points  of  which 
we  could  not  arrogate  to  ourselves,  and  into  the  faults 

233 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

of  which  we  could  not  but  be  afraid  of  falling.  For 
any  one  conscious  of  productive  power  it  was  a  des- 
perate condition. 

When  one  considers  carefully  what  was  wanting  in 
German  poetry,  it  was  a  significant  theme,  especially 
of  national  import;  there  was  never  any  lack  of  gifted 
writers.  It  is  only  necessary  to  mention  Giinther,  who 
may  be  called  a  poet  in  the  full  sense  of  the  word.  A 
decided  genius,  endowed  with  sensuousness,  imagination, 
memory,  the  gifts  of  conception  and  representation, 
productive  in  the  highest  degree,  possessing  rhythmic 
fluency,  ingenious,  witty,  and  at  the  same  time  well- 
informed  ; — he  possessed,  in  short,  all  the  requisites  for 
creating  by  his  poetry  a  second  life  out  of  the  actual 
commonplace  life  around  him.  We  admire  the  great 
facility  with  which,  in  his  occasional  poems,  he  enno- 
bles all  situations  by  appealing  to  the  emotions,  and 
embellishes  them  with  suitable  sentiments,  images,  and 
historical  and  fabulous  traditions.  The  roughness  and 
wildness  in  them  belong  to  his  time,  his  mode  of  life, 
and  especially  to  his  character,  or,  if  you  will,  his  want 
of  character.  He  did  not  know  how  to  curb  himself, 
and  so  his  life,  like  his  poetry,  proved  ineffectual. 

By  his  vacillating  conduct,  Giinther  had  trifled  away 
the  good  fortune  of  being  appointed  at  the  Court  of 
Augustus  the  Second,  where,  with  their  love  of  magnifi- 
cence, they  desired  to  find  a  laureate  who  would  impart 
warmth  and  grace  to  their  festivities,  and  immortalize 
a  transitory  pomp.  Von  Konig  was  more  self-con- 
trolled and  more  fortunate;  he  filled  this  post  with 
dignity  and  success. 

In  all  sovereign  states  the  material  for  poetry  begins 
with  the  highest  social  ranks,  and  the  Remew  Camp  at 
234 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  YouiU 

Miihlherg  was,  perhaps,  the  first  worthy  subject  of  pro- 
vincial, if  not  of  national  importance  which  presented 
itself  to  a  poet.  Two  kings  saluting  one  another  in  the 
presence  of  a  great  host,  their  whole  court  and  military 
state  around  them,  well-appointed  troops,  a  sham-fight, 
fetes  of  all  kinds, — here  was  plenty  to  captivate  the 
senses,  and  matter  enough  and  to  spare  for  descriptive 
poetry. 

This  subject,  indeed,  suffered  from  an  inner  defect, 
in  that  it  was  only  pomp  and  show,  from  which  no  real 
action  could  result.  None  except  the  very  highest 
were  involved,  and  even  if  this  had  not  been  the  case, 
the  poet  could  not  render  any  one  conspicuous  lest 
he  should  olfend  the  others.  He  had  to  consult  the 
Court  and  State  Calendar,  and  the  delineation  of  the 
persons  was  therefore  not  particularly  exciting;  nay, 
even  his  contemporaries  reproached  him  with  having  de- 
scribed the  horses  better  than  the  men.  But  should 
not  the  fact  that  he  showed  his  art  as  soon  as  a  fitting 
subject  presented  itself  redound  to  his  credit?  The 
main  difficulty,  too,  seems  soon  to  have  become  apparent 
to  him — for  the  poem  never  advanced  beyond  the  first 
canto. 

As  a  result  of  discussions,  examples,  and  my  own 
reflection,  I  came  to  see  that  the  first  step  towards 
escape  from  the  wishy-washy,  long-winded,  empty  epoch 
could  be  taken  only  by  definiteness,  precision,  and  brev- 
ity. In  the  style  which  had  hitherto  prevailed,  it  was 
impossible  to  distinguish  the  commonplace  from  what 
was  better,  since  a  uniform  insipidity  prevailed  on  all 
hands.  Authors  had  already  tried  to  escape  from  this 
widespread  disease,  with  more  or  less  success.  Haller 
and  Ramler  were  inclined  to  compression  by  nature; 

235 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Lessing  and  Wieland  were  led  to  it  by  reflection.  The 
former  became  by  degrees  quite  epigrammatic  in  his 
poems,  terse  in  Minna,  laconic  in  Emilia  Galotti, — it 
was  not  till  later  that  he  returned  to  that  serene  naivete 
which  becomes  him  so  well  in  Nathan.  Wieland,  who 
had  been  occasionally  prolix  in  Agathon,  Don  Sylvio, 
and  the  Comic  Tales,  became  wonderfully  condensed  and 
precise,  as  well  as  exceedingly  graceful,  in  Musarion 
and  Idris.  Klopstock,  in  the  first  cantos  of  the  Messiah, 
is  not  without  diffuseness ;  in  his  Odes  and  other  minor 
poems  he  appears  concise,  as  also  in  his  tragedies.  By 
his  emulation  of  the  ancients,  especially  Tacitus,  he  was 
constantly  forced  into  narrower  limits,  so  that  at  last 
he  became  obscure  and  unpleasing.  Gerstenberg,  a  rare 
but  eccentric  genius,  also  concentrated  his  powers ;  one 
feels  his  merit,  but  on  the  whole  he  gives  little  pleasure. 
Gleim,  by  nature  diffuse  and  easy-going,  was  scarcely 
once  concise  in  his  war-songs.  Ramler  was  properly 
more  of  a  critic  than  a  poet.  He  began  to  collect 
what  the  Germans  had  accomplished  in  lyric  poetry. 
He  discovered  that  scarcely  one  poem  entirely  satisfied 
him;  he  was  obliged  to  omit,  rearrange,  and  alter,  so 
that  the  things  might  assume  some  sort  of  form.  By  this 
means  he  made  himself  almost  as  many  enemies  as  there 
are  poets  and  amateurs,  since  every  one,  properly 
speaking,  recognizes  himself  only  in  his  defects ;  and  the 
public  takes  greater  interest  in  a  faulty  individuality 
than  in  what  is  produced  or  amended  in  accordance 
with  a  universal  law  of  taste.  Rhythm  was  still  in  its 
cradle,  and  no  one  knew  of  a  method  to  shorten  its 
childhood.  Poetical  prose  was  gaining  ground.  Gess- 
ner  and  Klopstock  found  many  imitators  ;  others,  again, 
still  put  in  a  plea  for  metre,  and  translated  this  prose 
236 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Youth 

into  intelligible  rhythms.  But  even  these  emended  ver- 
sions gave  nobody  satisfaction;  for  they  were  obliged 
to  omit  and  add,  and  the  prose  original  always  passed 
for  the  better  of  the  two.  But  in  all  these  attempts, 
the  greater  the  conciseness  aimed  at,  the  more  pos- 
sible is  it  to  criticize  them,  since  whatever  is  significant 
when  presented  in  a  condensed  form,  in  the  end  admits 
of  definite  comparison.  Another  result  was  the  simul- 
taneous appearance  of  a  number  of  truly  poetical  forms ; 
for  while  attempting  to  reproduce  solely  whatever  was 
essential  in  any  one  subject,  it  was  necessary  to  do 
justice  to  every  subject  chosen  for  treatment,  and 
hence,  though  none  did  it  consciously,  the  modes  of 
representation  were  multiplied;  though  some  were  gro- 
tesque enough,  and  many  an  experiment  proved  unsuc- 
cessful. 

Without  question,  Wieland  possessed  the  finest  natu- 
ral gifts  of  all.  He  had  developed  early  in  those  ideal 
regions  in  which  youth  loves  to  linger;  but  when  so- 
called  experience,  contact  with  the  world  and  women, 
spoilt  his  delight  in  those  realms,  he  turned  to  the 
actual,  and  derived  pleasure  for  himself  and  others 
from  the  conflict  between  the  two  worlds,  where,  in 
light  encounters,  half  in  earnest,  half  in  jest,  his  talent 
found  fullest  scope.  How  many  of  his  brilliant  pro- 
ductions appeared  during  my  student  days !  Musarion 
had  the  greatest  effect  upon  me,  and  I  can  yet  remember 
the  place  and  the  very  spot  where  I  looked  at  the  first 
proof-sheet,  which  Oeser  showed  me.  It  was  here  that 
I  seemed  to  see  antiquity  living  anew  before  me.  Every- 
thing that  is  plastic  in  Wieland's  genius  showed  itself 
here  in  the  highest  perfection;  and  since  the  Timon- 
like  hero  Phanias,  after  being  condemned  to  unhappy 

237 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

abstinence,  is  finally  reconciled  to  his  mistress  and  to 
the  world,  we  may  be  content  to  live  through  the  misan- 
thropic epoch  with  him.  For  the  rest,  we  were  not 
sorry  to  recognize  in  these  works  a  cheerful  aversion 
to  exalted  sentiments,  which  are  apt  to  be  wrongly 
applied  to  life,  and  then  frequently  fall  under  the  sus- 
picion of  fanaticism.  We  pardoned  the  author  for  pur- 
suing with  ridicule  what  we  held  to  be  true  and  ven- 
erable, the  more  readily,  as  he  thereby  showed  that  he 
was  unable  to  disregard  it. 

What  a  miserable  reception  was  accorded  such  efforts 
by  the  criticism  of  the  time  may  be  seen  from  the  first 
volumes  of  the  Universal  German  Library.  Honorable 
mention  is  made  there  of  the  Comic  Tales,  but  there  is 
no  trace  of  any  insight  into  the  character  of  the  lit- 
"erary  species.  The  reviewer,  like  every  one  at  that 
time,  had  formed  his  taste  on  examples.  He  never 
takes  into  consideration  that  in  criticizing  such  paro- 
distical  works,  it  is  necessary  first  of  all  to  have  the 
noble,  beautiful  original  before  one's  eyes,  in  order  to 
see  whether  the  parodist  has  really  discovered  in  it  a 
weak  and  comical  side,  whether  he  has  borrowed  any- 
thing from  it,  or  whether,  under  the  pretense  of  imi- 
tation, he  has  given  us  an  excellent  invention  of  his 
own.  Of  all  this  there  is  not  a  word,  but  isolated  pas- 
sages in  the  poems  are  praised  or  blamed.  The  re- 
viewer, as  he  himself  confesses,  has  marked  so  much 
that  pleased  him,  that  he  cannot  quote  it  all  in  print. 
When  they  go  so  far  as  to  greet  the  exceedingly  meri- 
torious translation  of  Shakespeare  with  the  exclama- 
tion: "By  rights,  a  man  like  Shakespeare  should  not 
have  been  translated  at  all !  "  it  will  be  understood,  with- 
out further  remark,  how  immeasurably  the  Universal 
238 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Youth 

German  Library  was  behindhand  In  matters  of  taste, 
and  that  young  people,  animated  by  true  feelings,  had 
to  look  about  them  for  other  guiding  stars. 

The  subject-matter  which  in  this  manner  more  or  less 
determined  the  form  was  sought  by  the  Germans  in 
the  most  varied  quarters.  They  had  handled  few  na- 
tional subjects,  or  none  at  ail.  Schlegel's  Hermann 
only  pointed  the  way.  The  idyllic  tendency  had  im- 
mense vogue.  The  want  of  distinctive  character  in 
Gessner,  with  all  his  gracefulness  and  childlike  sin- 
cerity, made  every  one  think  himself  capable  of  the  like. 
In  the  same  manner,  those  poems  which  were  intended 
to  portray  a  foreign  nationality  were  founded  merely 
on  a  common  humanity,  as,  for  instance,  the  Jewish 
Pastoral  Poems,  all  those  on  patriarchal  subjects,  and 
any  others  based  on  the  Old  Testament.  Bodmer's 
Noachide  was  a  perfect  type  of  the  watery  deluge  that 
swelled  high  around  the  German  Parnassus,  and  abated 
but  slowly.  Anacreontic  dallyings  likewise  made  it 
possible  for  numberless  mediocre  writers  to  meander 
aimlessly  in  a  vague  prolixity.  The  precision  of  Hor- 
ace compelled  the  Germans,  though  but  slowly,  to  con- 
form to  him.  Neither  did  the  burlesques,  modeled,  for 
the  most  part,  on  Pope's  Rape  of  the  Lock,  succeed  in 
inaugurating  better  times. 

Yet  I  must  here  mention  a  delusion,  which  was  taken 
as  seriously  as  it  appears  ridiculous  on  closer  inspec- 
tion. The  Germans  had  now  an  adequate  historical 
knowledge  of  all  the  kinds  of  poetry  in  which  the  various 
nations  had  excelled.  This  assignment  of  poetry  to  its 
respective  pigeon-holes — a  process  in  reality  fatal  to 
its  true  spirit — had  been  accomplished  with  approxi- 
mate completeness  by  Gottsched  in  his  Critical  Art  of 

239 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Poetry,  and  at  the  same  time  he  had  shown  that  in  all 
the  divisions  were  to  be  found  excellent  works  by  Ger- 
man poets.  And  so  it  went  on.  Every  year  the  col- 
lection became  more  considerable,  but  every  year  one 
work  ousted  some  other  from  the  place  in  which  it  had 
hitherto  shone.  We  now  possessed,  if  not  Homers,  yet 
Virgils  and  Miltons ;  if  not  a  Pindar,  yet  a  Horace ;  of 
Theocrituses  there  was  no  lack ;  and  thus  they  soothed 
themselves  by  comparisons  from  abroad,  whilst  the  mass 
of  poetical  works  constantly  increased,  so  that  at  last 
it  was  possible  to  make  comparisons  at  home. 

With  the  cultivation  of  the  German  language  and 
style  in  every  department,  the  power  of  criticism  also 
increased ;  but  while  the  reviews  then  published  of  works 
upon  religious  and  ethical  as  well  as  medical  subjects 
were  admirable,  the  critiques  of  poems,  and  of  whatever 
else  relates  to  belles  lettres,  will  be  found,  if  not  pitiful, 
at  least  very  feeble.  This  holds  good  of  the  Literary 
Epistles  and  the  Universal  German  Library,  as  well  as 
of  the  Library  of  Belles  Lett  res,  and  might  easily  be 
verified  by  notable  instances. 

However  great  the  confusion  of  these  varied  efforts, 
the  only  thing  to  be  done  by  any  one  who  contemplated 
producing  anything  original,  and  was  not  content  to 
take  the  words  and  phrases  out  of  the  mouths  of  his 
predecessors,  was  to  search  unremittingly  for  some 
subject-matter  for  treatment.  Here,  too,  we  were 
greatly  misled.  People  were  constantly  repeating  a  say- 
ing of  Kleist's,  who  had  rephed  playfully,  with  humor 
and  truth,  to  those  who  took  him  to  task  on  account  of 
his  frequently  lonely  walks :  "  that  he  was  not  idle  at 
such  times — he  was  hunting  for  images."  This  simile 
was  very  suitable  for  a  nobleman  and  soldier,  for  in  it  he 
240 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  YoutJi 

contrasted  himself  with  men  of  his  own  rank,  who  never 
missed  an  opportunity  of  going  out,  with  their  guns  on 
their  shoulders,  to  shoot  hares  and  partridges.  Accord- 
ingly we  find  in  Kleist's  poems  many  such  individual 
images,  happily  seized,  although  not  always  happily 
elaborated,  which  remind  us  pleasantly  of  nature.  But 
now  we,  too,  were  admonished  quite  seriously  to  go  out 
hunting  for  images,  and  in  the  end  to  some  slight  pur- 
pose, although  Apel's  Garden,  the  Cake  Gardens,  the 
Rosental,  Gohlis,  Raschwitz  and  Konnewitz,  were  the 
oddest  ground  in  which  to  beat  up  poetical  game. 
And  yet  I  was  often  induced  from  this  motive  to  con- 
trive that  my  walk  should  be  solitary.  But  few  either 
beautiful  or  sublime  objects  met  the  eye  of  the  be- 
holder, and  in  the  truly  splendid  Rosental  the  gnats 
in  summer  made  all  gentle  thoughts  impossible,  so 
by  dint  of  unwearied,  persevering  endeavor,  I  became 
extremely  attentive  to  the  small  life  of  nature  (I  should 
like  to  use  this  word  after  the  analogy  of  "  still  life  "). 
Since  the  charming  little  incidents  to  be  observed 
within  this  circle  are  but  unimportant  in  themselves,  I 
accustomed  myself  to  see  in  them  a  significance,  tending 
now  towards  the  symbolical  and  now  towards  the  alle- 
gorical, according  as  intuition,  feeling,  or  reflection  pre- 
dominated. 

Whilst  I  was  playing  the  part  of  shepherd  on  the 
Pleisse,  and  was  childishly  absorbed  in  such  tender  sub- 
jects, always  choosing  such  only  as  I  could  easily  recap- 
ture and  lock  in  my  heart,  greater  and  more  important 
themes  had  long  before  been  provided  for  German 
poets.  . 

It  was  Frederick  the  Great  and  the  events  of  the 
Seven  Years'  War  which  first  gave  to  German  literature 

241 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

a  real  and  noble  vitality.  All  national  poetry  cannot 
fail  to  be  insipid,  or  inevitably  becomes  so,  if  it  is  not 
based  on  the  man  who  stands  first  among  men,  upon  the 
experiences  which  come  to  the  nations  and  their  leaders, 
when  both  stand  together  as  one  man.  Kings  should 
be  represented  in  the  midst  of  warfare  and  danger,  for 
there  they  are  made  to  appear  the  highest,  just  be- 
cause the  fate  of  the  lowest  depends  upon  them  and  is 
shared  by  them.  In  this  way  they  become  far  more  in- 
teresting than  the  gods  themselves,  who,  when  they  have 
decided  the  destinies  of  men,  do  not  share  them.  In 
this  sense  every  nation  that  wishes  to  count  for  any- 
thing ought  to  possess  an  epic,  though  not  necessarily 
in  the  form  of  an  epic  poem. 

The  war-songs  first  sung  by  Gleim  deserve  their  high 
place  in  German  poetry,  because  they  were  the  out- 
come of  and  contemporary  with  the  events  they  cele- 
brate; and  furthermore,  because  the  felicitous  form, 
suggestive  of  a  combatant's  utterance  in  the  thick  of 
the  fray,  impresses  us  with  its  absolute  effectiveness. 

Ramler  sings  in  different  but  dignified  strains  the 
exploits  of  his  king.  All  his  poems  are  thoughtful, 
and  fill  our  minds  with  great  and  elevating  subjects, 
and  on  that  account  alone  possess  an  indestructible 
value. 

For  the  significance  of  the  subject  treated  of  is  the 
Alpha  and  Omega  of  art.  Of  course,  no  one  will  deny 
that  genius,  or  cultivated  artistic  talent,  can  by  its 
method  of  treatment  make  anything  out  of  anything, 
and  render  the  most  refractory  subject  amenable.  But 
on  close  inspection  the  result  is  rather  an  artistic  feat 
than  a  work  of  art,  which  latter  should  be  based  on  a 
fitting  subject,  so  that  in  the  end  the  skill,  the  care, 
242 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Youth 

the  diligence  of  the  artist's  treatment  only  brings  out 
the  dignity  of  the  subject  in  greater  attractiveness  and 
splendor. 

Prussians,  and  with  them  Protestant  Germany, 
therefore  gained  a  treasure-trove  for  their  literature, 
which  was  lacking  to  the  other  party,  who  have  not 
been  able  to  repair  the  deficiency  by  subsequent  ef- 
forts. In  the  high  idea  which  they  cherished  of  theii^ 
King,  the  Prussian  writers  first  found  inspiration, 
and  fostered  it  all  the  more  zealously  because  he  in 
whose  name  they  did  everything  would  have  nothing 
whatever  to  say  to  them.  French  civilization  had 
been  widely  introduced  into  Prussia  at  an  earlier  date 
by  the  French  colony,  and  again  later  by  the  King's 
preference  for  French  culture  and  French  financial 
methods.  The  effect  of  this  French  influence  was  to 
rouse  the  Germans  to  antagonism  and  resistance — 
a  result  decidedly  beneficial  in  its  operation.  Equally 
fortunate  for  the  development  of  literature  was 
Frederick's  antipathy  to  German.  They  did  every- 
thing to  attract  the  King's  attention,  not  indeed  to  be 
honored,  but  only  to  be  noticed  by  him;  yet  they  did 
it  in  German  fashion,  from  inner  conviction ;  they  did 
what  they  held  to  be  right,  and  desired  and  wished 
that  the  King  should  recognize  and  prize  this  as 
right.  That  did  not  and  could  not  happen;  for  how 
can  it  be  expected  that  a  king,  who  wishes  to  live 
and  enjoy  himself  intellectually,  should  waste  his  years 
waiting  to  see  what  he  thinks  barbarous  developed  and 
rendered  enjoyable  too  late?  In  matters  of  trade  and 
manufacture,  it  is  true,  he  pressed  upon  himself,  but 
especially  upon  his  people,  very  mediocre  substitutes 
instead  of  excellent  foreign  wares ;  but  in  this  depart- 

243 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

ment  of  life  everything  is  perfected  more  rapidly,  and 
it  does  not  take  a  man's  life-time  to  bring  such  things 
to  maturity. 

But  I  must  here,  first  of  all,  make  honorable  mention 
of  one  work,  the  m.ost  genuine  product  of  the  Seven 
Years'  War,  altogether  North  German  in  its  national 
sentiment ;  it  is  the  first  dramatic  work  founded  upon 
important  events  of  specific  contemporary  value,  and 
therefore  produced  an  incalculable  effect — Minna  von 
Barnlielm.  Lessing,  who,  unlike  Klopstock  and  Gleim, 
was  fond  of  laying  aside  his  personal  dignity,  because  he 
was  confident  that  he  could  resume  it  at  any  moment, 
delighted  in  a  dissipated,  worldly  life  and  the  society 
of  taverns,  as  he  always  needed  some  strong  external 
excitement  to  counterbalance  his  exuberant  intellectual 
activity;  and  for  this  reason  also  he  had  joined  the 
suite  of  General  Tauentzien.  It  is  easy  to  see  how 
this  drama  was  generated  betwixt  war  and  peace,  hatred 
and  affection.  It  was  this  production  which  success- 
fully opened  to  the  literary  and  middle-class  world,  in 
which  poetic  art  had  hitherto  moved,  a  view  into  a 
higher,  more  significant  world. 

The  hostile  relations  in  which  Prussians  and  Saxons 
had  stood  towards  each  other  during  this  war,  could 
not  be  removed  by  its  termination.  The  Saxon  now 
felt  for  the  first  time  the  whole  bitterness  of  the  wounds 
which  the  upstart  Prussian  had  inflicted  upon  him.  Po- 
litical peace  could  not  immediately  reestablish  a  peace 
between  their  hearts.  But  the  establishment  of  this 
peace  was  represented  symbolically  in  Lessing's  drama. 
The  grace  and  amiability  of  the  Saxon  ladies  con- 
quer the  worth,  the  dignity,  and  the  stubborness  of  the 
244 


German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Toutli 

Prussians,  and,  in  the  principal  as  well  as  in  the  subordi- 
nate characters,  a  happy  union  of  bizarre  and  contra- 
dictory elements  is  artistically  represented. 

If  I  have  caused  my  readers  some  bewilderment  by 
these  cursory  and  desultory  remarks  on  German  litera- 
ture, I  have  succeeded  in  giving  them  a  conception  of 
the  chaotic  condition  of  my  poor  brain  at  a  time  when, 
in  the  conflict  of  two  epochs  so  important  for  the  na- 
tional literature,  so  much  that  was  new  crowded  in  upon 
me  before  I  could  come  to  terms  with  the  old,  so  much 
that  was  old  still  maintained  its  hold  upon  me,  though 
I  already  believed  I  might  with  good  reason  renounce 
it  altogether. 


245 


EXTRACTS  FROM  GOETHE'S  CON- 
VERSATIONS WITH  ECKERMANN 


EXTRACTS  FROM  THE  CONVERSATIONS 
WITH  ECKERMANN 

(1822-32) 

The  Universality  of  Poetry 

Within  the  last  few  days  I  have  read  many  and  vari- 
ous things ;  especially  a  Chinese  novel,  which  occupies 
me  still,  and  seems  to  me  very  remarkable.  The  Chinese 
think,  act,  and  feel  almost  exactly  like  ourselves;  and 
we  soon  find  that  we  are  perfectly  like  them,  excepting 
that  all  they  do  is  more  clear,  more  pure  and  decorous 
than  with  us. 

With  them  all  is  orderly,  simple,  without  great 
passion  or  poetic  flight ;  and  there  is  a  strong  resem- 
blance to  my  Hermann  and  Dorothea,  as  well  as  to  the 
English  novels  of  Richardson.  They  differ  from  us, 
however,  inasmuch  as  with  them  external  nature  is 
always  associated  with  human  figures.  You  always 
hear  the  goldfish  splashing  in  the  pond,  the  birds  are 
always  singing  on  the  bough,  the  day  is  always  serene 
and  sunny,  the  night  is  always  clear.  There  is  much 
talk  about  the  moon,  but  it  does  not  alter  the  land- 
scape, its  light  is  conceived  to  be  as  bright  as  day  itself ; 
and  the  interior  of  the  houses  is  as  neat  and  elegant 
as  their  pictures.  For  instance,  "  I  heard  the  lovely 
girls  laughing,  and  when  I  got  a  sight  of  them,  they 
were  sitting  on  cane  chairs."  There  you  have,  at  once, 
the  prettiest  situation;  for  cane  chairs  are  necessarily 

249 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

associated  with  the  greatest  h'ghtness  and  elegance. 
Then  there  is  an  infinite  number  of  legends  which  are 
constantly  introduced  into  the  narrative,  and  are  ap- 
plied almost  like  proverbs;  as,  for  instance,  one  of  a 
girl,  who  was  so  light  and  graceful  on  her  feet  that 
she  could  balance  herself  on  a  flower  without  breaking 
it;  and  then  another,  of  a  young  man  so  virtuous  and 
brave  that  in  his  thirtieth  year  he  had  the  honor  to 
talk  with  the  Emperor;  then  there  is  another  of  two 
lovers  who  showed  such  great  purity  during  a  long 
acquaintance  that  when  they  were  on  one  occasion 
obliged  to  pass  the  night  in  the  same  chamber,  they 
occupied  the  time  with  conversation,  and  did  not  ap- 
proach one  another. 

And  in  the  same  way,  there  are  innumerable  other 
legends,  all  turning  upon  what  is  moral  and  proper. 
It  is  by  this  severe  moderation  in  everything  that  the 
Chinese  Empire  has  sustained  itself  for  thousands  of 
years,  and  will  endure  hereafter. 

I  am  more  and  more  convinced  that  poetry  is  the 
universal  possession  of  mankind,  revealing  itself  every- 
where, and  at  all  times,  in  hundreds  and  hundreds  of 
men.  One  makes  it  a  little  better  than  another,  and 
swims  on  the  surface  a  little  longer  than  another — 
that  is  all.  Herr  von  Matthisson  must  not  think  he  is 
the  man,  nor  must  I  think  that  I  am  the  man ;  but  each 
must  say  to  himself  that  the  gift  of  poetry  is  by  no 
means  so  very  rare,  and  that  nobody  need  think  very 
much  of  himself  because  he  has  written  a  good  poem. 

But,  really,  we  Germans  are  very  likely  to  fall  too 
easily  into  this  pedantic  conceit,  when  we  do  not 
look  beyond  the  narrow  circle  which  surrounds  us.  I 
therefore  like  to  look  about  me  in  foreign  nations,  and 
250 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Echermann 

advise  every  one  to  do  the  same.  National  literature 
is  now  rather  an  unmeaning  term ;  the  epoch  of  World 
Literature  is  at  hand,  and  every  one  must  strive  to 
hasten  its  approach.  But,  while  we  thus  value  what 
is  foreign,  we  must  not  bind  ourselves  to  anything  in 
particular,  and  regard  it  as  a  model.  We  must  not 
give  this  value  to  the  Chinese,  or  the  Servian,  or  Cal- 
deron,  or  the  Nibelungen ;  but  if  we  really  want  a  pat- 
tern, we  must  always  return  to  the  ancient  Greeks,  in 
whose  works  the  beauty  of  mankind  is  constantly  rep- 
resented. All  the  rest  we  must  look  at  only  histori- 
cally, appropriating  to  ourselves  what  is  good,  so  far 
as  it  goes. 

Poetry  and  Patriotism^ 

To  write  military  songs,  and  sit  in  a  room !  That 
would  have  suited  me!  To  have  written  them  in  the 
bivouac,  when  the  horses  at  the  enemy's  outposts  are 
heard  neighing  at  night,  would  have  been  well  enough; 
however,  that  was  not  my  life  and  not  my  business, 
but  that  of  Theodor  Korner.  His  war-sonojs  suit  liim 
perfectl3^  But  to  me,  who  am  not  of  a  warlike  nature, 
and  who  have  no  warlike  sense,  war-songs  would  have 
been  a  mask  which  would  have  fitted  my  face  very 
badly. 

I  have  never  affected  anything  in  my  poetry.  I 
have  never  uttered  anything  which  I  have  not  experi- 
enced, and  which  has  not  urged  me  to  production.  I 
have  only  composed  love-songs  when  I  have  loved.  How 
could  I  write  songs  of  hatred  without  hating!  And, 
between  ourselves,  I  did  not  hate  the  French,  although 

1  Goethe  had  been  reproached  "  for  not  taking  up  arms  in  the 
German  War  of  Liberation,  or  at  least  cooperating  as  a  poet." 

251 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

I  thanked  God  that  we  were  free  from  them.  How 
could  I,  to  whom  culture  and  barbarism  are  alone  of 
importance,  hate  a  nation  which  is  among  the  most 
cultivated  of  the  earth,  and  to  which  I  owe  so  great 
a  part  of  mj  own  culture? 

Altogether,  national  hatred  is  something  peculiar. 
You  will  always  find  it  strongest  and  most  violent  where 
there  is  the  lowest  degree  of  culture.  But  there  is  a 
degree  where  it  vanishes  altogether,  and  where  one 
stands  to  a  certain  extent  above  nations,  and  feels  the 
weal  or  woe  of  a  neighboring  people,  as  if  it  had  hap- 
pened to  one's  own.  This  degree  of  culture  was  con- 
formable to  my  nature,  and  I  had  become  strengthened 
in  it  long  before  I  had  reached  my  sixtieth  year. 

It  is  better  for  us  moderns  to  say  with  Napoleon, 
"  Politics  are  Destiny."  But  let  us  beware  of  say- 
ing, with  our  latest  literati,  that  politics  are  poetry, 
or  a  suitable  subject  for  the  poet.  The  English  poet 
Thomson  wrote  a  very  good  poem  on  the  Seasons,  but 
a  very  bad  one  on  Liberty,  and  that  not  from  want 
of  poetry  in  the  poet,  but  from  want  of  poetry  in  the 
subject. 

If  a  poet  would  work  politically,  he  must  give  him- 
self up  to  a  party;  and  so  'soon  as  he  does  that  he  is 
lost  as  a  poet;  he  must  bid  farewell  to  his  free  spirit, 
his  unbiased  view,  and  draw  over  his  ears  the  cap  of 
bigotry  and  blind  hatred. 

The  poet,  as  a  man  and  citizen,  will  love  his  native 
land ;  but  the  native  land  of  his  poetic  powers  and  poetic 
action  is  the  good,  noble,  and  beautiful,  which  is  con- 
fined to  no  particular  province  or  country,  and  which 
he  seizes  upon  and  forms  wherever  he  finds  it.  Therein 
252 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

is  he  like  the  eagle,  who  hovers  with  free  gaze  over 
whole  countries,  and  to  whom  it  is  of  no  consequence 
whether  the  hare  on  which  he  pounces  is  running  in 
Prussia  or  in  Saxony. 

And,  then,  what  is  meant  by  love  of  one's  country? 
what  is  meant  by  patriotic  deeds?  If  the  poet  has 
employed  a  life  in  battling  with  pernicious  prejudices, 
in  setting  aside  narrow  views,  in  enlightening  the  minds, 
purifying  the  tastes,  ennobling  the  feelings  and  thoughts 
of  his  countrymen,  what  better  could  he  have  done? 
how  could  he  have  acted  more  patriotically? 


Poetry  and  History 

Manzoni  wants  nothing  except  to  know  what  a  good 
poet  he  is,  and  what  rights  belong  to  him  as  such.  He 
has  too  much  respect  for  history,  and  on  this  account 
always  adds  explanations  to  his  pieces,  in  which  he 
shows  how  faithful  he  has  been  to  detail.  Now,  though 
his  facts  may  be  historical,  his  characters  are  not  so, 
any  more  than  my  Thoas  and  Iphigenia.  No  poet 
has  ever  known  the  historical  characters  which  he  has 
painted;  if  he  had,  he  could  scarcely  have  made  use 
of  them.  The  poet  must  know  what  effects  he  wishes 
to  produce,  and  regulate  the  nature  of  his  characters 
accordingly.  If  I  had  tried  to  make  Egmont  as  his- 
tory represents  him,  the  father  of  a  dozen  children, 
his  light-minded  proceedings  would  have  appeared  very 
absurd.  I  needed  an  Egmont  more  in  harmony  with 
his  own  actions  and  my  poetic  views ;  and  this  is,  as 
Clara  says,  my  Egmont. 

What  would  be  the  use  of  poets,  if  they  only  re- 
peated the  record  of  the  historian?     The  poet  must  go 

253 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

further,  and  give  us,  if  possible,  something  higher  and 
better.  All  the  characters  of  Sophocles  bear  some- 
thing of  that  great  poet's  lofty  soul;  and  it  is  the 
same  with  the  characters  of  Shakespeare.  This  is  as 
it  ought  to  be.  Nay,  Shakespeare  goes  farther,  and 
makes  his  Romans  Englishmen;  and  there,  too,  he  is 
right ;  for  otherwise  his  nation  would  not  have  under- 
stood him. 

Here  again  the  Greeks  were  so  great  that  they  re- 
garded fidelity  to  historic  facts  less  than  the  treat- 
ment of  them  by  the  poet.  We  have  a  fine  ex- 
ample in  Philoctetes,  which  subject  has  been  treated 
by  all  three  of  the  great  tragic  poets,  and  lastly 
and  best  by  Sophocles.  This  poet's  excellent  play  has, 
fortunately,  come  down  to  us  entire,  while  of  the 
Philoctetes  of  ^schylus  and  Euripides  only  fragments 
have  been  found,  although  sufficient  to  show  how  they 
have  managed  the  subject.  If  time  permitted,  I  would 
restore  these  pieces,  as  I  did  the  Phaeton  of  Euripides ; 
it  would  be  to  me  no  unpleasant  or  useless  task. 

In  this  subject  the  problem  was  very  simple,  namely, 
to  bring  Philoctetes,  with  his  bow,  from  the  island  of 
Lemnos.  But  the  manner  of  doing  this  was  the  busi- 
ness of  the  poet,  arid  here  each  could  show  the  power 
of  his  invention,  and  one  could  excel  another.  Ulysses 
must  fetch  him ;  but  shall  he  be  recognized  by  Philoctetes 
or  not?  and  if  not,  how  shall  he  be  disguised?  Shall 
Ulysses  go  alone,  or  shall  he  have  companions,  and  who 
shall  they  be?  In  ^'schylus  the  companion  is  unknown ; 
in  Euripides,  it  is  Diomed ;  in  Sophocles,  the  son  of 
Achilles.  Then,  in  what  situation  is  Philoctetes  to  be 
found  ?  Shall  the  island  be  inhabited  or  not  ?  and,  if  in- 
habited, shall  any  sympathetic  soul  have  taken  compas- 
254 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Echermann 

sion  on  him  or  not?  And  so  with  a  hundred  other  things, 
which  are  all  at  the  discretion  of  the  poet,  and  in  the 
selection  and  omission  of  which  one  may  show  his  supe- 
riority in  wisdom  to  another.  This  is  the  important 
point,  and  the  poets  of  to-day  should  do  like  the  an- 
cients. They  should  not  be  always  asking  whether  a 
subject  has  been  used  before,  and  look  to  south  and 
north  for  unheard-of  adventures,  which  are  often  bar- 
barous enough,  and  merely  make  an  impression  as  inci- 
dents. But  to  make  something  of  a  simple  subject  by 
a  masterly  treatment  requires  intellect  and  great  talent, 
and  these  we  do  not  find. 

Originality 

The  Germans  cannot  cease  to  be  Philistines.  They  are 
now  squabbling  about  some  distichs,  which  are  printed 
both  in  Schiller's  works  and  mine,  and  fancy  it  is  im- 
portant to  ascertain  which  really  belong  to  Schiller 
and  which  to  me;  as  if  anything  could  be  gained  by 
such  investigation — as  if  the  existence  of  such  things 
were  not  enough.  Friends  like  Schiller  and  myself,  inti- 
mate for  years,  with  the  same  interests,  in  habits  of  daily 
intercourse,  and  under  reciprocal  obligations,  live  so 
completely  in  one  another  that  it  is  hardly  possible 
to  decide  to  which  of  the  two  the  particular  thoughts 
belong. 

We  have  made  many  distiches  together;  sometimes  I 
gave  the  thought,  and  Schiller  made  the  verse ;  some- 
times the  contrary  was  the  case;  sometimes  he  made 
one  line,  and  I  the  other.  What  matters  the  mine 
and  thine?  One  must  be  a  thorough  Philistine,  indeed, 
to  attach  the  slightest  importance  to  the  solution  of 
such  questions. 

255 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

We  are  indeed  born  with  faculties ;  but  we  owe  our 
development  to  a  thousand  influences  of  the  great  world, 
from  which  we  appropriate  to  ourselves  what  we  can, 
and  what  is  suitable  to  us.  I  owe  much  to  the  Greeks 
and  French;  I  am  infinitely  indebted  to  Shakespeare, 
S.teme,  and  Goldsmith;  but  in  saying  this  I  do  not  ex- 
haust the  sources  of  my  culture;  that  would  be  an  end- 
less as  well  as  an  unnecessary  task.  We  might  as  well 
question  a  strong  man  about  the  oxen,  sheep,  and  swine 
which  he  has  eaten,  and  which  have  given  him  strength. 
What  is  important  is  to  have  a  soul  which  loves  truth, 
and  receives  it  wherever  it  finds  it. 

Besides,  the  world  is  now  so  old,  so  many  eminent 
men  have  lived  and  thought  for  thousands  of  years, 
that  there  is  little  new  to  be  discovered  or  expressed. 
Even  my  theory  of  colors  is  not  entirely  new.  Plato, 
Leonardo  da  Vinci,  and  many  other  excellent  men,  have 
before  me  found  and  expressed  the  same  thing  in  a 
detached  form:  my  merit  is  that  I  have  found  it  also, 
that  I  have  said  it  again,  and  that  I  have  striven  to 
bring  the  truth  once  more  into  a  confused  world. 

The  truth  must  be  repeated  over  and  over  again, 
because  error  is  repeatedly  preached  among  us,  not  only 
by  individuals,  but  by  the  masses.  In  periodicals  and 
cyclopedias,  in  schools  and  universities,  everywhere,  in 
fact,  error  prevails,  and  is  quite  easy  in  the  feeling 
that  it  has  a  decided  majority  on  its  side. 

People  are  always  talking  about  originality;  but 
what  do  they  mean?  As  soon  as  we  are  born,  the  world 
begins  to  work  upon  us,  and  this  goes  on  to  the  end. 
And,  after  all,  what  can  we  call  our  own  except  energy, 
strength,  and  will?  If  I  could  give  an  account  of  all 
256 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

that  I  owe  to  great  predecessors  and  contemporaries, 
there  would  be  but  a  small  balance  in  my  favor. 

However,  the  time  of  life  in  which  we  are  subjected 
to  a  new  and  important  personal  influence  is,  by 
no  means,  a  matter  of  indifference.  That  Lessing, 
Winckelmann,  and  Kant  were  older  than  I,  and  that 
the  first  two  acted  upon  my  youth,  the  latter  on  my 
advanced  age, — this  circumstance  was  for  me  very  im- 
portant. Again,  that  Schiller  was  so  much  younger 
than  I,  and  engaged  in  his  freshest  strivings  just  as  I 
began  to  be  weary  of  the  world — just,  too,  as  the  broth- 
ers von  Humboldt  and  Schlegel  were  beginning  their  ca- 
reer under  my  eye — was  of  the  greatest  importance.  I 
derived  from  it  unspeakable  advantages. 

What  seduces  young  people  is  this.  We  live  in  a 
time  in  which  so  much  culture  is  diffused  that  it  has  com- 
municated itself,  as  it  were,  to  the  atmosphere  which 
a  young  man  breathes.  Poetical  and  philosophic 
thoughts  live  and  move  within  him,  he  has  sucked  them 
in  with  his  very  breath,  but  he  thinks  they  are  his 
own  property,  and  utters  them  as  such.  But  after 
he  has  restored  to  the  time  what  he  has  received  from 
it,  he  remains  poor.  He  is  like  a  fountain  which  plays 
for  a  while  with  »the  water  with  which  it  is  supplied, 
but  which  ceases  to  flow  as  soon  as  the  liquid  treasure 
is  exhausted. 

The  critic  of  Le  Temps  has  not  been  so  wise.  He 
presumes  to  point  out  to  the  poet  the  way  he  should 
go.  This  is  a  great  fault ;  for  one  cannot  thus  make 
him  better.  After  all,  there  is  nothing  more  foolish 
than  to  say  to  a  poet :  "  You  should  have  done  this  in 
this  way — and  that  in  that."     I  speak  from  long  ex- 

257 


Goethe's  Literary  "Essays 

perience.  One  can  never  make  anything  of  a  poet 
but  what  nature  has  intended  him  to  be.  If  you  force 
him  to  be  another,  you  will  destroy  him.  Now,  the 
gentlemen  of  the  Globe,  as  I  said  before,  act  very  wisel}-. 
They  print  a  long  list  of  all  the  commonplaces  which 
M.  Arnault  has  picked  up  from  every  hole  and  corner; 
and  by  doing  this  they  very  cleverly  point  out  the  rock 
which  the  author  has  to  avoid  in  future.  It  is  almost 
impossible,  in  the  present  day,  to  find  a  situation  which 
is  thoroughly  new.  It  is  merely  the  manner  of  looking 
at  it,  and  the  art  of  treating  and  representing  it,  which 
can  be  new,  and  one  must  be  the  more  cautious  of  every 
imitation. 

Personality  in  Art 

You  have  before  you  the  works  of  very  fair  talents, 
who  have  learned  something,  and  have  acquired  no  little 
taste  and  art.  Still,  something  is  wanting  in  all  these 
pictures — the  Manly.  Take  notice  of  this  word,  and 
underscore  it.  The  pictures  lack  a  certain  urgent 
power,  which  in  former  ages  was  generall}^  expressed, 
but  in  which  the  present  age  is  deficient,  and  that  with 
respect  not  only  to  painting,  but  to  all  the  other  arts. 
We  have  a  more  weakly  race,  of  whifh  we  cannot  say 
whether  it  is  so  by  its  origin,  or  by  a  more  weakly 
training  and  diet. 

Personality  is  everything  in  art  and  poetry;  never- 
theless, there  are  many  weak  personages  among  the  mod- 
ern critics  who  do  not  admit  this,  but  look  upon  a 
great  personality  in  a  work  of  poetry  or  art  merely  as 
a  kind  of  trifling  appendage. 

However,  to  feel  and  respect  a  great  personality  one 
must  be  something  oneself.  All  those  who  denied  the 
258 


Eodtracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

sublime  to  Euripides  were  either  poor  wretches  incapa- 
ble of  comprehending  such  sublimity,  or  shameless  char- 
latans, who,  by  their  presumption,  wished  to  make  more 
of  themselves,  and  really  did  make  more  of  themselves 
than  they  were. 


The  Sub ject-M after  of  Poetry 

The  world  is  so  great  and  rich,  and  life  so  full  of 
variety,  that  you  can  never  want  occasions  for  poems. 
But  they  must  all  be  occasional  poems ;  that  is  to  say, 
reality  must  give  both  impulse  and  material  for  their 
production.  A  particular  case  becomes  universal  and 
poetic  by  the  very  circumstance  that  it  is  treated  by 
a  poet.  All  my  poems  are  occasional  poems,  suggested 
by  real  life,  and  having  therein  a  firm  foundation.  I 
attach  no  value  to  poems  snatched  out  of  the  air. 

Let  no  one  say  that  reality  wants  poetical  interest; 
for  in  this  the  poet  proves  his  vocation,  that  he  has  the 
art  to  win  from  a  common  subject  an  interesting  side. 
Reality  must  give  the  motive,  the  points  to  be  expressed, 
the  kernel,  as  I  may  say ;  but  to  work  out  of  it  a  beau- 
tiful, animated  whole,  belongs  to  the  poet.  You  know 
Fiirnstein,  called  the  Poet  of  Nature;  he  has  written 
the  prettiest  poem  possible  on  the  cultivation  of  hops. 
I  have  now  proposed  to  him  to  make  songs  for  the 
different  crafts  of  working-men,  particularly  a  weav- 
er's song,  and  I  am  sure  he  will  do  it  well,  for  he  has 
lived  among  such  people  from  his  youth ;  he  understands 
the  subjects  thoroughly,  and  is  therefore  master  of  his 
material.  That  is  exactly  the  advantage  of  small 
works;  you  need  only  choose  those  subjects  of  which 
you  are  master.     With  a  great  poem,  this  cannot  be: 

259 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

no  part  can  be  evaded;  all  which  belongs  to  the  ani- 
mation of  the  whole,  and  is  interwoven  into  the  plan, 
must  be  represented  with  precision.  In  youth,  how- 
ever, the  knowledge  of  things  is  only  one-sided.  A 
great  work  requires  many-sidedness,  and  on  that  rock 
the  young  author  splits. 

I  especially  warn  you  against  great  inventions  of 
your  own;  for  then  you  would  try  to  give  a  view  of 
things,  and  for  that  purpose  youth  is  seldom  ripe. 
Further,  character  and  views  detach  themselves  as  sides 
from  the  poet's  mind,  and  deprive  him  of  the  fullness 
requisite  for  future  productions.  And,  finally,  how 
much  time  is  lost  in  invention,  internal  arrangement, 
and  combination,  for  which  nobody  thanks  us,  even 
supposing  our  work  is  happily  accomplished. 

With  a  given  material,  on  the  other  hand,  all  goes 
easier  and  better.  Facts  and  characters  being  pro- 
vided, the  poet  has  only  the  task  of  animating  the 
whole.  He  preserves  his  own  fullness,  for  he  needs  to 
part  with  but  little  of  himself,  and  there  is  much  less 
loss  of  time  and  energy,  since  he  has  only  the  trouble 
of  execution.  Indeed,  I  would  advise  the  choice  of  sub- 
jects which  have  been  worked  before.  How  many 
Iphigenias  have  been  written !  yet  they  are  all  differ- 
ent, for  each  writer  considers  and  arranges  the  sub- 
ject differently;  namely,  after  his  own  fashion. 

The  majority  of  our  young  poets  have  no  fault  but 
this,  that  their  subjectivity  is  not  important,  and  that 
they  cannot  find  matter  in  the  objective.  At  best,  they 
only  find  a  material  which  is  similar  to  themselves,  which 
corresponds  to  their  own  subjectivity;  but  as  for  tak- 

26a 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

ing  the  material  on  its  own  account,  merely  because  it 
is  poetical,  even  when  it  is  repugnant  to  their  subjec- 
tivity, such  a  thing  is  never  thought  of. 

Our  German  agstheticians  are  always  talking  about 
poetical  and  unpoetical  objects;  and,  in  one  respect, 
they  are  not  quite  wrong;  yet,  at  bottom,  no  real  object 
is  unpoetical,  if  the  poet  knows  how  to  use  it  properly. 

The  Influence  of  Enmronment 

If  a  talent  is  to  be  speedily  and  happily  developed, 
the  great  point  is  that  a  great  deal  of  intellect  and 
sound  culture  should  be  current  in  a  nation. 

We  admire  the  tragedies  of  the  ancient  Greeks ;  but, 
to  take  a  correct  view  of  the  case,  we  ought  rather  ta 
admire  the  period  and  the  nation  in  which  their  produc- 
tion was  possible  than  the  individual  authors;  for 
though  these  pieces  differ  a  little  from  each  other,  and 
one  of  these  poets  appears  somewhat  greater  and  more 
finished  than  the  other,  still,  taking  all  things  together, 
only  one  decided  character  runs  through  the  whole. 

This  is  the  character  of  grandeur,  fitness,  soundness, 
human  perfection,  elevated  wisdom,  sublime  thought, 
clear,  concrete  vision,  and  whatever  other  qualities  one 
might  enumerate.  But  when  we  find  all  these  qualities, 
not  only  in  the  dramatic  works  that  have  come  down 
to  us,  but  also  in  lyrical  and  epic  works,  in  the  philoso- 
phers, the  orators,  and  the  historians,  and  in  an  equally 
high  degree  in  the  works  of  plastic  art  that  have  come 
down  to  us,  we  must  feel  convinced  that  such  qualities 
did  not  merely  belong  to  individuals,  but  were  the  cur- 
rent property  of  the  nation  and  the  whole  period. 

261 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Now,  take  up  Burns.  How  is  he  great,  except 
through  the  circumstance  that  the  old  songs  of  his 
predecessors  lived  in  the  mouth  of  the  people, — that 
they  were,  so  to  speak,  sung  at  his  cradle;  that,  as  a 
boy,  he  grew  up  amongst  them,  and  the  high  excellence 
of  these  models  so  pervaded  him  that  he  had  therein  a 
living  basis  on  which  he  could  proceed  further?  Again, 
why  is  he  great,  but  from  this,  that  his  own  songs  at 
once  found  susceptible  ears  amongst  his  compatriots ; 
that,  sung  by  reapers  and  sheaf-binders,  they  at  once 
greeted  him  in  the  field;  and  that  his  boon-companions 
sang  them  to  welcome  him  at  the  alehouse?  Something 
was  certainly  to  be  done  in  this  way. 

On  the  other  hand,  what  a  pitiful  figure  is  made  by 
us  Germans !  Of  our  old  songs — no  less  important  than 
those  of  Scotland — how  many  lived  among  the  people 
in  the  days  of  my  youth?  Herder  and  his  successors 
first  began  to  collect  them  and  rescue  them  from  ob- 
livion ;  then  they  were  at  least  printed  in  the  libraries. 
Then,  more  lately,  what  songs  have  not  Burger  and 
Voss  composed !  Who  can  say  that  they  are  more  in- 
significant or  less  popular  than  those  of  the  excellent 
Burns?  but  which  of  them  so  lives  among  us  that  it 
greets  us  from  the  mouth  of  the  people? — they  are 
written  and  printed,  and  they  remain  in  the  libraries, 
quite  in  accordance  with  the  general  fate  of  German 
poets.  Of  my  own  songs,  how  many  live?  Perhaps 
one  or  another  of  them  may  be  sung  by  a  pretty  girl 
at  the  piano ;  but  among  the  people,  properly  so  called, 
they  have  no  sound.  With  what  sensations  must  I  re- 
member the  time  when  passages  from  Tasso  were  sung 
to  me  by  Italian  fishermen! 

We  Germans  are  of  yesterday.  We  have  indeed  been 
262 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Echermann 

properly  cultivated  for  a  century;  but  a  few  centuries 
more  must  still  elapse  before  so  much  mind  and  elevated 
culttire  will  become  universal  amongst  our  people  that 
they  will  appreciate  beauty  like  the  Greeks,  that  they 
will  be  inspired  by  a  beautiful  song,  and  that  it  will 
be  said  of  them  "  it  is  long  since  they  were  barbarians." 

Culture  and  Morals 

The  audacity  and  grandeur  of  Byron  must  certainly 
tend  towards  Culture.  We  should  take  care  not  to 
be  always  looking  for  it  in  only  what  is  decidedly  pure 
and  moral.  Everything  that  is  great  promotes  culti- 
vation as  soon  as  we  are  aw  are  of  it. 

Classic  and  Romantic 

A  new  expression  occurs  to  me  which  does  not  ill 
define  the  state  of  the  case.  I  call  the  classic  healths/, 
the  romantic  sickly.  In  this  sense,  the  Nibelungenlied 
is  as  classic  as  the  Iliad,  for  both  are  vigorous  and 
healthy.  Most  modern  productions  are  romantic,  not 
because  they  are  new,  but  because  they  are  weak,  mor- 
bid, and  sickly ;  and  the  antique  is  classic,  not  because 
it  is  old,  but  because  it  is  strong,  fresh,  joyous,  and 
healthy.  If  we  distinguish  "  classic  "  and  "  romantic  " 
by  these  qualities,  it  will  be  easy  to  see  our  way  clearly. 

This  is  a  pathological  work;  a  superfluity  of  sap  is 
bestowed  on  some  parts  which  do  not  require  it,  and 
drawn  out  of  those  which  stand  in  need  of  it.  The  sub- 
ject was  good,  but  the  scenes  which  I  expected  were  not 
there ;  while  others,  which  I  did  not  expect,  were  elabo- 
rated with  assiduity   and  love.     This   is   what   I   call 

263 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

pathological,  or  "  romantic,"  if  you  would  rather  speak 
according  to  our  new  theory. 

The  French  now  begin  to  think  justly  of  these  mat- 
ters. Both  classic  and  romantic,  say  they,  are  equally 
good.  The  only  point  is  to  use  these  forms  with  judg- 
ment, and  to  be  capable  of  excellence.  You  can  be  ab- 
surd in  both,  and  then  one  is  as  worthless  as  the  other. 
This,  I  think,  is  rational  enough,  and  may  content  us 
for  a  while. 

The  idea  of  the  distinction  between  classical  and 
romantic  poetry,  which  is  now  spread  over  the  whole 
world,  and  occasions  so  many  quarrels  and  divisions, 
came  originally  from  Schiller  and  myself.  I  laid  down 
the  maxim  of  objective  treatment  in  poetry,  and  would 
allow  no  other;  but  Schiller,  who  worked  quite  in  the 
subjective  way,  deemed  his  own  fashion  the  right  one, 
and  to  defend  himself  against  me,  wrote  the  treatise 
upon  Naive  and  Sentimental  Poetry.  He  proved  to  me 
that  I  myself,  against  my  will,  was  romantic,  and  that 
my  Iphigenia,  through  the  predominance  of  sentiment, 
was  by  no  means  so  classical  and  so  much  in  the  an- 
tique spirit  as  some  people  supposed. 

The  Schlegels  took  up  this  idea,  and  carried  it  fur- 
ther, so  that  it  has  now  been  diffused  over  the  whole 
world ;  and  every  one  talks  about  classicism  and  roman- 
ticism— of  which  nobody  thought  fifty  years  ago. 


Taste 

This  is  the  way  to  cultivate  what  we  call  taste. 
Taste  is  only  to  be  educated  by  contemplation,  not  of 
264! 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

the  tolerably  good,  but  of  the  truly  excellent.  I  there- 
fore show  you  only  the  best  works;  and  when  you  are 
grounded  in  these,  you  will  have  a  standard  for  the  rest, 
which  you  will  know  how  to  value,  without  overrating 
them.  And  I  show  you  the  best  in  each  class,  that  you 
may  perceive  that  no  class  is  to  be  despised,  but  that 
each  gives  delight  when  a  man  of  genius  attains  its  high- 
est point.  For  instance,  this  piece,  by  a  French  artist, 
is  galant,  to  a  degree  which  you  see  nowhere  else,  and 
is  therefore  a  model  in  its  way. 


Style 

On  the  whole,  philosophical  speculation  is  injurious 
to  the  Germans,  as  it  tends  to  make  their  style  abstract, 
difficult,  and  obscure.  The  stronger  their  attachment 
to  certain  philosophical  schools,  the  worse  they  write. 
Those  Germans  who,  as  men  of  business  and  actual  life, 
confine  themselves  to  the  practical,  write  the  best. 
Schiller's  style  is  most  noble  and  impressive  whenever  he 
leaves  off  philosophizing,  as  I  observe  every  day  in  his 
highly  interesting  letters,  with  which  I  am  now  busy. 

There  are  also  among  the  German  women  talented 
beings  who  write  a  really  excellent  style,  and,  indeed, 
in  that  respect  surpass  many  of  our  celebrated  male 
writers. 

The  English  almost  always  write  well,  being  born 
orators  and  practical  men,  with  a  tendency  to  the  reaL 

The  French,  in  their  style,  remain  true  to  their  gen- 
eral character.  They  are  of  a  social  nature,  and  there- 
fore never  forget  the  public  whom  they  address;  they 
strive  to  be  clear,*  that  they  may  convince  their  reader 
— agreeable,  that  they  may  please  him. 

265 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Altogether,  the  style  of  a  writer  is  a  faithful  repre- 
sentative of  his  mind;  therefore,  if  any  man  wishes  to 
write  a  clear  style,  let  him  first  be  clear  in  his  thoughts : 
and  if  any  would  write  in  a  noble  style,  let  him  first 
possess  a  noble  soul. 

Intellect  and  Imagination 

I  wonder  what  the  German  critics  will  say  [of  this 
poetic  inconsistency].  Will  they  have  freedom  and  bold- 
ness enough  to  get  over  this  ?  Intellect  will  stand  in  the 
way  of  the  French;  they  will  not  consider  that  the 
imagination  has  its  own  laws,  to  which  the  intellect 
cannot,  and  should  not,  penetrate. 

If  imagination  did  not  originate  things  which  must 
ever  be  problems  to  the  intellect,  there  would  be 
but  little  for  the  imagination  to  do.  It  is  this  which 
separates  poetry  from  prose ;  and  it  is  in  the  latter  that 
the  intellect  always  is,  and  always  should  be,  at  home. 

Definition  of  Poetry 

What  need  of  much  definition?  Lively  feeling  of  sit- 
uations, and  power  to  express  them,  make  the  poet. 

Definition  of  Beauty 

1  cannot  help  laughing  at  the  aestheticians,  who  tor- 
ment themselves  in  endeavoring,  by  some  abstract  words, 
to  reduce  to  a  conception  that  inexpressible  thing  to 
which  we  give  the  name  of  beauty.  Beauty  is  a  prime- 
val phenomenon,  which  itself  never  makes  its  appear- 
ance, but  the  reflection  of  which  is  visible  in  a  thousand 
diff^erent  utterances  of  the  creative  mind,  and  is  as  va- 
rious as  nature  herself. 
266 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

Architecture  and  Music 

I  Irave  found  a  paper  of  mine  among  some  others, 
in  which  I  call  architecture  "  petrified  music."  ^  Really 
there  is  something  in  this ;  the  tone  of  mind  produced 
by  architecture  approaches  the  effect  of  music. 

Primitive  Poetry 

From  these  old-German  gloomy  times  we  can  obtain 
as  little  as  from  the  Servian  songs,  and  similar  barbaric 
popular  poetry.  We  can  read  it  and  be  interested 
about  it  for  a  while,  but  merely  to  cast  it  aside,  and 
let  it  lie  behind  us.  Generally  speaking,  a  man  is  quite 
sufficiently  saddened  by  his  own  passions  and  destiny, 
and  need  not  make  himself  more  so  by  the  darkness 
of  a  barbaric  past.  He  needs  enlightening  and  cheer- 
ing influences,  and  should  therefore  turn  to  those  eras 
in  art  and  literature,  during  which  remarkable  men  ob- 
tained perfect  culture,  so  that  they  were  satisfied  with 
themselves,  and  able  to  impart  to  others  the  blessings 
of  their  culture. 

W  eltliteratwr 

We  [Germans]  are  weakest  in  the  aesthetic  depart- 
ment, and  may  wait  long  before  we  meet  such  a  man  as 
Carlyle.  It  is  pleasant  to  see  that  intercourse  is  now 
so  close  between  the  French,  English,  and  Germans, 
that  we  shall  be  able  to  correct  one  another.  This  is 
the  greatest  use  of  a  World  Literature,  which  will  show 
itself  more  and  more. 

1 "  Architecture  is  music  in  space,  as  it  were  a  frozen  music."— 
Schelling's  Philosophic  der  Kunst. 

267 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Carlyle  has  written  a  life  of  Schiller,  and  judged  him 
as  it  would  be  difficult  for  a  German  to  judge  him.  On 
the  other  hand,  we  are  clear  about  Shakespeare  and 
Byron,  and  can,  perhaps,  appreciate  their  merits  bet- 
ter than  the  English  themselves. 

French  Critics 

I  am  now  really  curious  to  know  what  the  gentlemen 
of  the  Globe  will  say  of  this  novel.  They  are  clever 
enough  to  perceive  its  excellencies ;  and  the  whole  tend- 
ency of  the  work  is  so  much  grist  to  the  mill  of  these 
liberals,  although  Manzoni  has  shown  himself  very  mod- 
erate. Nevertheless,  the  French  seldom  receive  a  work 
with  such  pure  kindliness  as  we;  they  cannot  readily 
adapt  themselves  to  the  author's  point  of  view,  but,  even 
in  the  best,  always  find  something  which  is  not  to  their 
mind,  and  which  the  author  should  have  done  other- 
wise. 

What  men  these  writers  in  the  Globe  are!  One  has 
scarcely  a  notion  how  much  greater  and  more  remark- 
able they  become  every  day,  and  how  much,  as  it  were, 
they  are  imbued  with  one  spirit.  Such  a  paper  would 
be  utterly  impossible  in  Germany.  We  are  mere  indi- 
viduals; harmony  and  concert  are  not  to  be  thought 
of;  each  has  the  opinions  of  his  province,  his  city,  and 
his  own  idiosyncrasy ;  and  it  will  be  a  long  while  be- 
fore we  have  attained  an  universal  culture. 

The  Construction  of  a  Good  Play 

When  a  piece  makes  a  deep  impression  on  us  in  read- 
ing, we  think  that  it  will  do  the  same  on  the  stage,  and 
268 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

that  such  a  result  can  be  obtained  with  little  trouble. 
But  this  is  by  no  means  the  case.  A  piece  that  is  not 
originally,  by  the  intent  and  skill  of  thej)oet,  written 
for  the  boards,  will  not  5UCOeedT15iit  whateveris  done  to 
it  will  always  remain  s'omething'unmanageable.  What 
trouble  have  I  taken  with  my'Goetz  von  Berlichingen! 
Yet  it  will  not  quite  do  as  an  acting  play;  it  is  too 
long;  and  I  have  been  forced  to  divide  it  into  two 
parts,  of  which  the  last  is  indeed  theatrically  effective, 
while  the  first  is  to  be  looked  upon  as  a  mere  introduc- 
tion. If  the  first  part  were  given  only  once  as  an  in- 
troduction, and  then  the  second  repeatedly,  it  might 
succeed.  It  is  the  same  with  Wallenstein;  the  Picco- 
lomini  does  not  bear  repetition,  but  Wallenstein' s  Death 
is  always  seen  with  delight. 

The  construction  of  a  play  must  be  symbolical;  that 
is  to  say,  each  incident  must  be  significant  in  itself, 
and  lead  to  another  still  more  important.  The  Tartuffe 
of  Moliere  is,  in  this  respect,  a  great  example.  Only 
think  what  an  introduction  is  the  first  scene!  From 
the  very  beginning  everything  is  highly  significant,  and 
leads  us  to  expect  something  still  more  important  which 
is  to  come.  The  beginning  of  Lessing's  Minna  von 
Barnhelm  is  also  admirable;  but  that  of  Tartuffe 
is  absolutely  unique:  it  is  the  greatest  and  best^tHing 
that  exists  of  the  kind. 

In  Calderon  you  find  the  same  perfect  adaptation 
to  the  theatre.  His  pieces  are  throughout  fit  for  the 
boards ;  there  is  not  a  touch  in  them  which  is  not  di- 
rected towards  the  required  effect.  Calderon  is  a  genius 
who  had  also  the  finest  understanding. 

Shakespeare  wrote  his  plays  direct  from  his  own 
nature.     Then,  too,  his  age  and  the  existing  arrange- 

269 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

ments  of  the  stage  made  no  demands  upon  him ;  people 
were  forced  to  put  up  with  whatever  he  gave  them.  But 
if  Shakespeare  had  written  for  the  court  of  Madrid, 
or  for  the  theatre  of  Louis  XIV,  he  would  probably 
have  adapted  himself  to  a  severer  theatrical  form.  jThis, 
however,  is  by  no  means  to  be  regretted,  for  what 
"^-Shakespeare  has  lost  as  a  theatrical  poet  he  has  gained 
as  a  poet  in  general.  Shakespeare  is  a  great  psycholo- 
gist, and  we  learn  from  his  pieces  what  really  moves  the 
hearts  of  men^j 

Dramatic  Unities 

He  [Byron]  understood  the  purpose  of  this  law  no 
better  than  the  rest  of  the  world.  Com^rehensibility 
[das  Fassliche'\  is_the  purpose,  and  the  th]:££_jinities 
are  onlyso  far  good  as  they  conduce  to  this  end.  If 
the  observance  of  them  innders  the^oinpfehensiOTr-ef 
a  wor^  it  is  foolisK  to  tfeart~them  as  laws,  aji5  to  try 
to  observe  them.  Even  the  Greeks,  from  whom  the  rule 
was  taken,  did  not  always  follow  it.  In  the  Phaethon 
of  Euripides,  and  in  other  pieces,  there  is  a  change  of 
place,  and  it  is  obvious  that  good  representation  of 
their  subject  was  with  them  more  important  than  blind 
obedience  to  law,  which,  in  itself,  is  of  no  great  conse- 
quence. The  pieces  of  Shakespeare  deviate,  as  far  as 
possible,  from  the  unities  of  time  and  place;  but  they 
are  comprehensible — nothing  more  so — and  on  this  ac- 
count the  Greeks  would  have  found  no  fault  in  them. 
The  French  poets  have  endeavored  to  follow  most  rig- 
idly the  laws  of  the  three  unities,  but  they  sin  against 
comprehensibility,  inasmuch  as  they  solve  a  dramatic 
law,  not  dramatically,  but  by  narration. 

270 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Echermann 

The  Theatre 

Any  one  who  is  sufficiently  young,  and  who  is  not  quite 
spoiled,  could  not  easily  find  any  place  that  would  suit 
him  so  well  as  a  theatre.  No  one  asks  you  any  ques- 
tions :  you  need  not  open  your  mouth  unless  you  choose; 
on  the  contrary,  you  sit  quite  at  your  ease  like  a  king, 
and  let  everything  pass  before  you,  and  recreate  your 
mind  and  senses  to  your  heart's  content.  There  is 
poetry,  there  is  painting,  there  are  singing  and  music, 
there  is  acting,  and  what  not  besides.  When  all  these 
arts,  and  the  charm  of  youth  and  beauty  heightened 
to  an  important  degree,  work  in  concert  on  the  same 
evening,  it  is  a  bouquet  to  which  no  other  can  compare. 
But  even  when  part  is  bad  and  part  is  good.  It  is  still 
better  than  looking  out  of  the  window,  or  playing  a 
game  of  whist  in  a  close  party  amid  the  smoke  of 
cigars. 

Acting 

It  is  a  great  error  to  think  that  an  indifferent  piece 

may  be  played  by  indifferent  actors.     A.second  oxJibJrd 

rate  play  can  be  incredibly  improved  by  the  employ- 

ment  of  first-rate  talents,  and  be  made^omefKing~really 

good.     But  if  a  second  or  third  rate  play  be  performed 

by  second  or  third  rate  actors,  no  one  can  wonder  if 

it  is  utterly  ineffective. 

/■     Second-rate    actors    are    excellent    in    great    plays. 

J  They  have  the  same  effect  that  the  figures  in  half  shade 

/  have  in  a  picture ;  they  serve  admirably  to  show  off 

>more  powerfully  those  which  have  the  full  light. 


271 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

Dramatic  Situations 

Gozzi  maintained  that  there  are  only  thirty-six  trag- 
ical situations.  Schiller  took  the  greatest  pains  to  find 
more,  but  he  did  not  find  even  so  many  as  Gozzi. 

Management  of  the  Theatre 

The  Grand  Duke  disclosed  to  me  his  opinion  that  a 
theatre  need  not  be  of  architectural  magnificence,  which 
could  not  be  contradicted.  He  further  said  that  it  was 
after  all  but  a  house  for  the  purpose  of  getting  money. 
This  view  appears  at  first  sight  rather  material;  but 
rightly  considered,  it  is  not  without  a  higher  purport. 
For  if  a  .theatre  is  not  only  to  pay  its  expenses,  but  is, 
besides,  to  make  and  save  money,  everything  about  it 
must  be  excellent.  It  must  have  the  best  management 
at  its  head;  the  actors  must  be  of  the  best;  and  good 
pieces  must  continually  be  performed,  that  the  attrac- 
tive power  required  to  draw  a  full  house  every  evening 
may  never  cease.  But  that  is  saying  a  great  deal  in  a 
few  words — almost  what  is  impossible. 

Even  Shakespeare  and  Moliere  had  no  other  view. 
Both  of  them  wished,  above  all  things,  to  make  money 
out  of  their  theatres.  In  order  to  attain  this,  their  prin- 
cipal aim,  they  necessarily  strove  that  everything  should 
be  as  good  as  possible,  and  that,  besides  good  old  plays, 
there  should  be  some  worthy  novelty  to  please  and 
attract. 

Nothing  is  more  dangerous  to  the  well-being  of  a 
theatre  than  when  the  director  is  so  placed  that  a 
greater  or  less  receipt  at  the  treasury  does  not  affect 
him  personally,  and  he  can  live  on  in  careless  security, 
knowing  that,  however  the  receipts  at  the  treasury  may 
272 


Ewtracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

fail  in  the  course  of  the  year,  at  the  end  of  that  time 
he  will  be  able  to  indemnify  himself  from  another  source. 
It  is  a  property  of  human  nature  soon  to  relax  when 
not  impelled  by  personal  advantage  or  disadvantage. 

Menander 

I  know  no  one,  after  Sophocles,  whom  I  love  so  well. 
He  is  thoroughly  pure,  noble,  great,  and  cheerful,  and 
his  grace  is  inimitable.  It  is  certainly  to  be  lamented 
that  we  possess  so  little  of  him,  but  that  little  is  invalu- 
able, and  highly  instructive  to  gifted  men. 

Calderon 

The  great  point  is  that  he  from  whom  we  would  learn 
should  be  congenial  to  our  nature.  Now,  Calderon,  for 
instance,  great  as  he  is,  and  much  as  I  admire  him,  has 
exerted  no  influence  over  me  for  good  or  for  ill.  But 
he  would  have  been  dangerous  to  Schiller — he  would 
have  led  him  astray;  and  hence  it  is  fortunate  that 
Calderon  was  not  generally  known  in  Germany  till  after 
Schiller's  death.  Calderon  is  infinitely  great  in  the 
technical  and  theatrical;  Schiller,  on  the  contrary,  far 
more  sound,  earnest,  and  great  in  his  intention,  and 
it  would  have  been  a  pity  if  he  had  lost  any  of  these 
virtues,  without,  after  all,  attaining  the  greatness  of 
Calderon  in  other  respects. 

MoUete 

Moliere  is  so  great  that  one  is  astonisheil  anew  every 
time  one  reads  him.  He  is  a  man  by  himself — ^his  pieces 
border  on  tragedy;  they  are  apprehensive;  and  no  one 

273 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

has  the  courage  to  imitate  them.  His  Miser,  where  the 
vice  destroys  all  the  natural  piety  between  father  and 
son,  is  especially  great,  and  in  a  high  sense  tragic. 
But  when,  in  a  German  paraphrase,  the  son  is  changed 
into  a  relation,  the  whole  is  weakened,  and  loses  its  sig- 
nificance. They  feared  to  show  the  vice  in  its  true  na- 
ture, as  he  did;  but  what  is  tragic  there,  or  indeed 
anywhere,  except  what  is  intolerable? 

I  read  some  pieces  of  Moliere's  every  year,  just  as, 
from  time  to  time,  I  contemplate  the  engravings  after 
the  great  Italian  masters.  For  we  little  men  are  not 
able  to  retain  the  greatness  of  such  jthing[g_within  our- 
silY£s ;_  W-e_?21L'it-t]if^^^^^^  rpfnrn  tp  thp^ri  iT^Qg^LjJIT^  to 
(J  tim£j..ai3d  renew  onrig^jiessions. 

'NjcA^^'^^^ If  we,  for  our  modern  purposes,  wish  to  learn  how 
57.  to  conduct  ourselves  upon  the  theatre,  Moliere  is  the 
aX^      man  to  whom  we  should  apply. 

)  Do  you  know  his  Malade  Imaginaire?  There  is  a 
scene  in  it  which,  as  often  as  I  read  the  piece,  appears 
to  me  the  symbol  of  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the  boards. 
I  mean  the  scene  where  the  "  malade  imaginaire  "  asks 
his  little  daughter  Louison  if  there  has  not  been  a  young 
man  in  the  chamber  of  her  eldest  sister. 

Now,  any  other  who  did  not  understand  his  craft  so 
well  would  have  let  the  little  Louison  plainly  tell  the 
fact  at  once,  and  there  would  have  been  the  end  of  the 
matter. 

But  what  various  motives  for  delay  are  introduced  by 
Moliere  into  this  examination,  for  the  sake  of  life  and 
effect.  He  first  makes  the  little  Louison  act  as  if  she 
did  not  understand  her  father;  then  she  denies  that  she 
knows  anything ;  then,  threatened  with  the  rod,  she  falls 
274 


Eartracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

down  as  if  dead ;  then,  when  her  father  bursts  out  in 
despair,  she  springs  up  from  her  feigned  swoon  with 
rogufsh  hilarity,  and  at  last,  little  by  little,  she  con- 
fesses all. 

My  explanation  can  only  give  you  a  very  meagre  no- 
tion of  the  animation  of  the  scene ;  but  read  this  scene 
yourself  till  you  become  thoroughly  impressed  with  its 
theatrical  worth,  and  you  will  confess  that  there  is  more 
practical  instruction  contained  in  it  than  in  all  the 
theories  in  the  world. 

I  have  known  and  loved  Moliere  from  my  youth,  and 
have  learned  from  him  during  my  whole  life.  I  never 
fail  to  read  some  of  his  plays  every  year,  that  I  may 
keep  up  a  constant  intercourse  with  what  is  excellent. 
It  is  not  merely  the  perfectly  artistic  treatment  which 
delights  me ;  but  particularly  the  amiable  nature,  the 
highly-formed  mind,  of  the  poet.  There  is  in  him  a 
grace  and  a  feeling  for  the  decorous,  and  a  tone  of 
good  society,  which  his  innate  beautiful  nature  could 
only  attain  by  daily  intercourse  with  the  most  eminent 
men  of  his  age.  Of  Menander,  I  only  know  the  few 
fragments ;  but  these  give  me  so  high  an  idea  of  him 
that  I  look  upon  this  great  Greek  as  the  only  man  who 
could  be  compared  to  Moliere. 

Shalcespeare 

We  cannot  talk  about  Shakespeare;  everything  is 
inadequate.  I  have  touched  upon  the  subject  in  my 
Wilhelm  Meister,  but  that  is  not  saying  much.  He  is 
Tiot  a  theatrical  poet;  he  never  thought  of  the  stage; 
it  was  far  too  narrow,  for  his_gr eat juind :  nay^  the  wkole 
visible  world  was  too  narrow. 

275 


<.. 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

He  is  even  too  rich  and  too  powerful.  A  productive 
\  nature  ought  not  to  read  more  than  one  of  his  dramas 
,  in  a  year  if  it  would  not  be  wrecked  entirely.  I  did  well 
\to  get  rid  of  him  by  writing  Goetz  and  Egmont,  and 
!Byron  did  well  by  not  having  too  much  respect  and 
admiration  for  him,  but  going  his  own  way.  How  many 
excellent  Germans  have  been  ruined  by  him  and  Cal- 
deron ! 

Shakespeare  gives  us  golden  apples  in  silver  dishes. 
We  get,  indeed,  the  silver  dishes  by  studying  his  works ; 
but,  unfortunately,  we  have  only  potatoes  to  put  into 
them. 

Macbeth  is  Shakespeare's  best  acting  play,  the  one 
in  which  he  shows  most  understanding  with  respect  to 
the  stage.  But  would  you  see  his  mind  unfettered,  read 
Troilus  and  Cressida,  where  he  treats  the  materials  of 
the  Iliad  in  his  own  fashion. 


A,  W.  SchlegeVs  Lectures  on  Dramatic  Art  and 
Literature 

It  is  not  to  be  denied  that  Schlegel  knows  a  great 
deal,  and  one  is  almost  terrified  at  his  extraordinary 
attainments  and  his  extensive  reading.  But  this  is  not 
enough.  Learning  in  itself  does  not  constitute  judg- 
ment. His  criticism  is  completely  one-sided,  because 
in  all  theatrical  pieces  he  merely  regards  the  skeleton 
of  the  plot  and  arrangement,  and  only  points  out  small 
points  of  resemblance  to  great  predecessors,  without 
troubling  himself  in  the  least  as  to  what  the  author 
brings  forward  of  graceful  life  and  the  culture  of  a 
high  soul.  But  of  what  use  are  all  the  arts  of  genius, 
276 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

if  we  do  not  find  in  a  theatrical  piece  an  amiable  or 
great  personality  of  the  author?  This  alone  influences 
the  cultivation  of  the  people. 

I  look  upon  the  manner  in  which  Schlegel  has  treated 
the  French  drama  as  a  sort  of  recipe  for  the  formation 
of  a  bad  critic,  who  is  wanting  in  every  organ  for  the 
veneration  of  excellence,  and  who  passes  over  an  able 
personality  and  a  great  character  as  if  they  were  chafF 
and  stubble. 

The  French  Romanticists 

Extremes  are  never  to  be  avoided  in  any  revolution. 
In  a  political  one  nothing  is  generally  desired  in  the 
beginning  but  the  abolition  of  abuses ;  but  before  people 
are  aware,  they  are  deep  in  bloodshed  and  horror.  Thus 
the  French,  in  their  present  literary  revolution,  desired 
nothing  at  first  but  a  freer  form;  however,  they  will 
not  stop  there,  but  will  reject  the  traditional  contents 
together  with  the  form.  They  begin  to  declare  the 
representation  of  noble  sentiments  and  deeds  as  tedious, 
and  attempt  to  treat  of  all  sorts  of  abominations.  In- 
stead of  the  beautiful  subjects  from  Grecian  mythology, 
there  are  devils,  witches,  and  vampires,  and  the  lofty 
heroes  of  antiquity  must  give  place  to  jugglers  and 
galley  slaves.  This  is  piquant !  This  is  effective !  But 
after  the  public  has  once  tasted  this  highly  seasoned 
food,  and  has  become  accustomed  to  it,  it  will  always 
long  for  more,  and  that  stronger.  A  young  man  of 
talent,  who  would  produce  an  efl'ect  and  be  acknowl- 
edged, and  who  is  great  enough  to  go  his  own  way, 
must  accommodate  himself  to  the  taste  of  the  day — 
nay,  must  seek  to  outdo  his  predecessors  in  the  horrible 
and  frightful.     But  in  this  chase  after  outward  means 

277 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

of  effect,  all  profound  study,  and  all  gradual  and  thor- 
ough development  of  the  talent  and  the  man  from 
within,  is  entirely  neglected.  And  this  is  the  greatest 
injury  which  can  befall  a  talent,  although  literature 
in  general  will  gain  by  this  tendency  of  the  moment. 

The  extremes  and  excrescences  which  I  have  described 
will  gradually  disappear ;  but  this  great  advantage  will 
finally  remain — besides  a  freer  form,  richer  and  more 
diversified  subjects  will  have  been  attained,  and  no 
object  of  the  broadest  world  and  the  most  manifold 
life  will  be  any  longer  excluded  as  unpoetical.  I  com- 
pare the  present  literary  epoch  to  a  state  of  violent 
fever,  which  is  not  in  itself  good  and  desirable,  but 
of  which  improved  health  is  the  happy  consequence. 
That  abomination  which  now  often  constitutes  the  whole 
subject  of  a  poetical  work  will  in  future  only  appear 
as  a  useful  expedient;  aye,  the  pure  and  the  noble, 
which  is  now  abandoned  for  the  moment,  will  soon  be 
resought  with  additional  ardor. 

Merimee  has  treated  these  things  very  differently 
from  his  fellow-authors.  These  poems,  it  is  true,  are 
not  deficient  in  various  horrible  motifs,  such  as  church- 
yards, nocturnal  crossroads,  ghosts  and  vampires ;  but 
the  repulsive  themes  do  not  touch  the  intrinsic  merit  of 
the  poet.  On  the  contrary,  he  treats  them  from  a  certain 
objective  distance,  and,  as  it  were,  with  irony.  He 
goes  to  work  with  them  like  an  artist,  to  whom  it  is 
an  amusement  to  try  anything  of  the  sort.  He  has, 
as  I  have  said  before,  quite  renounced  himself,  nay,  he 
has  even  renounced  the  Frenchman,  and  that  to  such 
a  degree  that  at  first  these  poems  of  Guzla  were  deemed 
real  Illyrian  popular  poems,  and  thus  little  was  want- 
ing for  the  success  of  the  imposition  he  had  intended. 
278 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

Merimee,  to  be  sure,  is  a  splendid  fellow !  Indeed, 
more  power  and  genius  are  generally  required  for  the 
objective  treatment  of  a  subject  than  is  supposed. 
So  Lord  Byron,  also,  notwithstanding  his  predomi- 
nant personality,  has  sometimes  had  the  power  of  re- 
nouncing himself  altogether,  as  may  be  seen  in  some 
of  his  dramatic  pieces,  particularly  in  his  Marino 
Faliero.  In  this  piece  one  quite  forgets  that  Lord 
Byron,  or  even  an  Englishman,  wrote  it.  We  live  en- 
tirely in  Venice,  and  entirely  in  the  time  in  which  the 
action  takes  place.  The  personages  speak  quite  from 
themselves,  and  from  their  own  condition,  without  hav- 
ing any  of  the  subjective  feelings,  thoughts,  and  opin- 
ions of  the  poet.  That  is  as  it  should  be.  Of  our 
young  French  romantic  writers  of  the  exaggerating 
sort,  one  cannot  say  as  much.  What  I  have  read  of 
them — poems,  novels,  dramatic  works — have  all  borne 
the  personal  coloring  of  the  author,  and  none  of  them 
ever  make  me  forget  that  a  Parisian — that  a  French- 
man— wrote  them.  Even  in  the  treatment  of  foreign 
subjects  one  still  remains  in  France  and  Paris,  quite 
absorbed  in  all  the  wishes,  necessities,  conflicts,  and 
fermentations  of  the  present  day. 


Victor  Hugo 

He  has  a  fine  talent,  but  quite  entangled  in  the  un- 
happy romantic  tendency  of  his  time,  by  which  he  is 
seduced  to  represent,  together  with  what  is  beautiful, 
also  that  which  is  most  insupportable  and  hideous.  I 
have  lately  been  reading  his  Notre  Dame  de  Paris,  and 
required  no  little  patience  to  support  the  horror  with 
which  this  reading  has  inspired  me.     It  is  the  most 

279 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

abominable  book  that  ever  was  written!  Besides,  one 
is  not  even  indemnified  for  the  torture  one  has  to  en- 
dure by  the  pleasure  one  might  receive  from  a  truthful 
representation  of  human  nature  or  human  character. 
His  book  is,  on  the  contrary,  utterly  destitute  of  na- 
ture and  truth !  The  so-called  characters  whom  he 
brings  forward  are  not  human  beings  with  living 
flesh  and  blood,  but  miserable  wooden  puppets,  which 
he  deals  with  as  he  pleases,  and  which  he  causes  to 
make  all  sorts  of  contortions  and  grimaces  just  as  he 
needs  them  for  his  desired  effects.  But  what  an  age  it 
must  be  which  not  only  renders  such  a  book  possible 
and  calls  it  into  existence,  but  even  finds  it  endurable 
and  delightful. 

The  "  Idea  "  of  Goethe's  Tasso  and  Faust 

Idea !  as  if  I  knew  anything  about  it.  I  had  the  life 
of  Tasso,  I  had  my  own  life;  and  whilst  I  brought  to- 
gether two  odd  figures  with  their  peculiarities,  the 
image  of  Tasso  arose  in  my  mind,  to  which  I  opposed, 
as  a  prosaic  contrast,  that  of  Antonio,  for  whom  also 
I  did  not  lack  models.  The  further  particulars  of  court 
life  and  love  affairs  were  at  Weimar  as  they  were  in 
Ferrara;  and  I  can  truly  say  of  my  production,  it  is 
bone  of  my  hone,  and  flesh  of  my  flesh. 

The  Germans  are,  certainly,  strange  people.  By 
their  deep  thoughts  and  ideas,  which  they  seek  in  every- 
thing and  fix  upon  everything,  they  make  life  much 
more  burdensome  than  is  necessary.  Only  have  the 
courage  to  give  yourself  up  to  your  impressions,  allow 
yourself  to  be  delighted,  moved,  elevated,  nay,  instructed 
and  inspired  for  something  great;  but  do  not  imagine 
all  is  vanity,  if  it  is  not  abstract  thought  and  idea. 
280 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

Then  they  come  and  ask  what  idea  I  meant  to  em- 
body in  my  Faust.  As  if  I  knew  myself  and  could 
inform  them.  From  heaven,  through  the  world,  to  hell, 
would  indeed  be  something;  but  this  is  no  idea,  only 
a  course  of  action.  And  further,  that  the  devil  loses 
the  wager,  and  that  a  man,  continually  struggling  from 
difficult  errors  towards  something  better,  should  be  re- 
deemed, is  an  effective,  and  to  many,  a  good  enlighten- 
ing thought ;  but  it  is  no  idea  which  lies  at  the  founda- 
tion of  the  whole  and  of  every  individual  scene.  It 
would  have  been  a  fine  thing,  indeed,  if  I  had  strung 
so  rich,  varied,  and  highly  diversified  a  life  as  I  have 
brought  to  view  in  Faust  upon  the  slender  string  of  one 
pervading  idea. 

It  was,  on  the  whole,  not  in  my  line,  as  a  poet,  to 
strive  to  embody  anything  abstract.  1  received  in  my 
mind  impressions,  and  those  of  a  sensuous,  animated, 
charming,  varied,  hundredfold  kind,  just  as  a  lively 
imagination  presented  them ;  and  I  had,  as  a  poet,  noth- 
ing more  to  do  than  artistically  to  round  off  and  elabo- 
rate such  views  and  impressions,  and  by  means  of  a 
lively  representation  so  to  bring  them  forward  that 
others  might  receive  the  same  impression  in  hearing  or 
reading  my  repl-esentation  of  them. 

If  I  however  wished,  as  a  poet,  to  represent  any 
idea,  I  did  it  in  short  poems,  where  a  decided  unity  could 
prevail,  as,  for  instance,  in  the  Metamorphosis  of  Ani- 
mals, that  of  Plants,  the  poem  Legacy,  and  many 
others.  The  only  production  of  greater  extent,  in 
which  I  am  conscious  of  having  labored  to  set  forth  a 
pervading  idea,  is  probably  my  Elective  Affinities.  This 
novel  has  thus  become  comprehensible  to  the  intellect; 
but  I  will  not  say  that  it  is  therefore  better.     I  am 

281 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

rather  of  the  opinion  that  the  more  incommensurable, 
and  the  more  incomprehensible  to  the  intellect,  a  poetic 
production  is,  so  much  the  better  it  is. 

Schiller 

Yes,  everything  else  about  him  was  proud  and  majes- 
tic, only  the  eyes  were  soft.  And  his  talent  was  like 
his  outward  form.  He  seized  boldly  on  a  great  sub- 
ject, and  turned  it  this  way  and  that,  and  handled  it 
this  way  and  that.  But  he  saw  his  object,  as  it  were, 
only  from  the  outside ;  a  quiet  development  from  within 
was  not  his  province.  His  talent  was  desultory.  Thus 
he  was  never  decided — could  never  have  done.  He  often 
changed  a  part  just  before  a  rehearsal. 

And,  as  he  went  so  boldly  to  work,  he  did  not  take 
sufficient  pains  about  motives.  I  recollect  what  trou- 
ble I  had  with  him  when  he  wanted  to  make  Gessler,  in 
Tell,  abruptly  break  an  apple  from  the  tree,  and  have 
it  shot  from  the  boy's  head.  This  was  quite  against 
my  nature,  and  I  urged  him  to  give  at  least  some  mo- 
tive to  this  barbarity,  by  making  the  boy  boast  to 
Gessler  of  his  father's  dexterity,  and  say  that  he  could 
shoot  an  apple  from  a  tree  at  a  hundred  paces.  Schil- 
ler, at  first,  would  have  nothing  of  the  sort :  but  at  last 
he  yielded  to  my  arguments  and  intentions,  and  did  as 
I  advised  him.  I,  on  the  other  hand,  by  too  great 
attention  to  motives^  kept  my  pieces  from  the  theatre. 
My  Eugenie  is  nothing  but  a  chain  of  motives,  and  this 
cannot  succeed  on  the  stage. 

Schiller's  genius  was  really  made  for  the  theatre. 
With  every  piece  he  progressed,  and  became  more  fin- 
ished ;  but,  strange  to  say,  a  certain  love  for  the  hor- 
282 


Extracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

rible  adhered  to  him  from  the  time  of  the  Robbers, 
which  never  quite  left  him  even  in  his  prime.  I  still 
recollect  perfectly  well  that  in  the  prison  scene  in  my 
Egmont,  where  the  sentence  is  read  to  him,  Schiller 
would  have  made  Alva  appear  in  the  background, 
masked  and  muffled  in  a  cloak,  enjoying  the  effect  which 
the  sentence  would  produce  on  Egmont.  Thus  Alva 
was  to  show  himself  insatiable  in  revenge  and  malice. 
I,  however,  protested,  and  prevented  the  apparition. 
He  was  a  singular,  great  man. 

Every  week  he  became  different  and  more  finished; 
each  time  that  I  saw  him  he  seemed  to  me  to  have 
advanced  in  learning  and  judgment.  His  letters  are 
the  fairest  memorials  of  him  which  I  possess,  and  they 
are  also  among  the  most  excellent  of  his  writings. 

Edmburgh  Review 

It  IS  a  pleasure  to  me  to  see  the  elevation  and  ex- 
cellence to  which  the  English  critics  now  rise.  There 
is  not  a  trace  of  their  former  pedantry,  but  its  place 
is  occupied  by  great  qualities.  In  the  last  article — the 
one  on  German  literature — you  will  find  the  following 
remark : — "  There  are  some  poets  who  have  a  tendency 
always  to  occupy  themselves  with  things  which  another 
likes  to  drive  from  his  mind."  What  say  you  to  this.? 
There  we  know  at  once  where  we  are,  and  how  we  have 
to  classify  a  great  number  of  our  most  modern  literati. 

Byron 

Lord  Byron  is  to  be  regarded  as  a  man,  as  an  Eng- 
lishman, and   as   a  great  genius.     His   good  qualities 

288 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

belong  chiefly  to  the  man,  his  bad  to  the  Englishman 
and  the  peer,  his  talent  is  incommensurable. 

All  Englishmen,  as  such,  are  without  reflection,  prop- 
erly so  called;  distractions  and  party  spirit  will  not 
permit  them  to  perfect  themselves  in  quiet.  But  they 
are  great  as  practical  men. 

Thus  Lord  Byron  could  never  attain  reflection  con- 
cerning himself,  and  on  this  account  his  maxims  in  gen- 
eral are  not  successful,  as  is  shown  by  his  creed,  "  much 
money  and  no  authority,"  for  much  money  always 
paralyzes  authority. 

But  where  he  creates  he  always   succeeds ;  and  we 
may  truly  say  that  with  him  inspiration  supplies  the 
place  of  reflection.     Something  within  him  ever  drove 
him  to  poetry,  and  then  everything  that   came  from 
the  man,  especially  from  his  heart,  was  excellent.     He 
produced  his  best  things,  as  women  do  pretty  children, 
without  thinking  about  il  or  knowing  how  it  was  done. 
He  is   a  great  talent,   a  born  talent,  and  I  never 
saw  the  true  poetical  power  greater  in  any  man  than 
in  him.     In  the  apprehension  of  external  objects,  and 
a  clear  penetration  into  past  situations,  he  is  quite  as 
great   as   Shakespeare.     But  as   a  pure  individuality, 
Shakespeare  is  his  superior.     This  was  felt  by  Byron, 
and  on  this  account  he  does  not  say  much  of  Shake- 
speare,  although   he  knows  whole   passages  by  heart. 
He   would   willingly   have   denied   him    altogether;   for 
Shakespeare's  serenity  is  in  his  way,  and  he  feels  that 
he  is  no  match  for  it.     Pope  he  does  not  deny,  for 
he  had  no   cause  to   fear  him.     On  the  contrary,  he 
mentions  him,  and  shows  him  respect  when  he  can,  for 
he  knows  well  enough  that  Pope  is  a  mere  foil  to  him- 
self. 
284 


Eartracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

His  high  rank  as  an  English  peer  was  very  injurious 
to  Byron ;  for  every  talent  is  oppressed  by  the  outer 
world, — how  much  more,  then,  when  there  is  such  high 
birth  and  so  great  a  fortune.  A  certain  middle  rank 
is  much  more  favorable  to  talent,  on  which  account 
we  find  all  great  artists  and  poets  in  the  middle  classes. 
Byron's  predilection  for  the  unbounded  could  not  have 
been  nearly  so  dangerous  with  more  humble  birth  and 
smaller  means.  But  as  it  was,  he  was  able  to  put 
every  fancy  into  practice,  and  this  involved  him  in  innu- 
merable scrapes.  Besides,  how  could  one  of  such  high 
rank  be  inspired  with  awe  and  respect  by  any  rank 
whatever?  He  expressed  whatever  he  felt,  and  this 
brought  him  into  ceaseless  conflict  with  the  world. 

Moreover,  his  perpetual  negation  and  fault-finding 
is  injurious  even  to  his  excellent  works.  For  not  only 
does  the  discontent  of  the  poet  infect  the  reader,  but 
the  end  of  all  opposition  is  negation;  and  negation  is 
nothing.  If  I  call  bad  bad,  what  do  I  gain?  But  if 
I  call  good  bad,  I  do  a  great  deal  of  mischief.  He  who 
will  work  aright  must  never  rail,  must  not  trouble  him- 
self at  all  about  what  is  ill  done,  but  only  strive  to  do 
well  himself.  For  the  great  point  is  not  to  pull  down, 
but   to    build    up,   and   in   this    humanity    finds    pure 

I  could  not  make  use  of  any  man  as  the  representative 
of  the  modern  poetical  era  except  him,  who  undoubtedly 
is  to  be  regarded  as  the  greatest  genius  of  our  cen- 
tury. Byron  is  neither  antique  nor  romantic,  but  like 
the  present  day  itself.  This  was  the  sort  of  man  I 
required.    Then  he  suited  me  on  account  of  his  unsatis- 

285 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

fied  nature  and  his  warlike  tendency,  which  led  to  his 
death  at  Missolonghi. 

Lord  Byron  is  only  great  as  a  poet;  as  soon  as  he 
reflects,  he  is  a  child. 


Scott 

Walter  Scott's  Fair  Maid  of  Perth  is  excellent,  is  it 
not?  There  is  finish!  there  is  a  hand!  What  a  firm 
foundation  for  the  whole,  and  in  particular  not  a 
touch  which  does  not  lead  to  the  goal!  Then,  what 
details  of  dialogue  and  description,  both  of  which 
are  excellent.  His  scenes  and  situations  are  like  pic- 
tures by  Teniers ;  in  the  arrangement  they  show  the 
summit  of  art,  the  individual  figures  have  a  speaking 
truth,  and  the  execution  is  extended  with  artistic  love  to 
the  minutest  details,  so  that  not  a  stroke  is  lost. 

You  find  everywhere  in  Walter  Scott  a  remarkable 
security  and  thoroughness  in  his  delineation,  which  pro- 
ceeds from  his  comprehensive  knowledge  of  the  real 
world,  obtained  by  life-long  studies  and  observations, 
and  a  daily  discussion  of  the  most  important  relations. 
Then  come  his  great  talent  and  his  comprehensive  na- 
ture. You  remember  the  English  critic  who  compares 
the  poets  to  the  voices  of  singers,  of  which  some 
can  command  only  a  few  fine  tones,  while  others  have 
the  whole  compass,  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest,  com- 
pletely in  their  power.  Walter  Scott  is  one  of  this  last 
sort.  In  the  Fair  Maid  of  Perth  you  will  not  find  a 
single  weak  passage  to  make  you  feel  as  if  his  knowl- 
edge and  talent  were  insufficient.  He  is  equal  to  his 
subject  in  every  direction  in  which  it  takes  him;  the 
286 


Eactracts  from  Conversations  with  Eckermann 

king,  the  royal  brother,  the  prince,  the  head  of  the 
clergy,  the  nobles,  the  magistracy,  the  citizens  and  me- 
chanics, the  Highlanders,  are  all  drawn  with  the  same 
sure  hand,  and  hit  off  with  equal  truth. 

The  passage  where  the  prince,  sitting  on  horseback, 
makes  the  pretty  minstrel  girl  step  upon  his  foot,  that 
he  may  raise  her  up  for  a  kiss,  is  in  the  boldest  English 
style.  But  you  ladies  are  wrong  always  to  take  sides. 
Usually,  you  read  a  book  to  find  nutrition  for  the  heart, 
to  find  a  hero  whom  you  could  love.  This  is  not  the 
way  to  read;  the  great  point  is  not  whether  this  or 
that  character  pleases,  but  whether  the  whole  book 
pleases. 

But,  when  you  have  finished  the  Fair  Maid  of  Perth, 
you  must  at  once  read  Waverly,  which  is  written  from 
quite  a  different  point  of  view,  but  which  may,  without 
hesitation,  be  set  beside  the  best  works  that  have 
ever  been  written  in  this  world.  We  see  that  it  is  the 
same  man  who  wrote  the  Fair  Maid  of  Perth,  but  that 
he  has  yet  to  gain  the  favor  of  the  public,  and  there- 
fore collects  his  forces  so  that  he  may  not  give  a  touch 
that  is  short  of  excellence.  The  Fair  Maid  of  Perth, 
on  the  other  hand,  is  from  a  freer  pen ;  the  author  is 
now  sure  of  his  public,  and  he  proceeds  more  at  lib- 
erty. After  reading  Waverley,  you  will  understand 
why  Walter  Scott  still  designates  himself  the  author 
of  that  work;  for  there  he  showed  what  he  could  do, 
and  he  has  never  since  written  anything  to  surpass,  or 
even  equal,  that  first  published  novel. 

Walter  Scott  is  a  great  genius ;  he  has  not  his  equal ; 
and  we  need  not  wonder  at  the  extraordinary  effect  he 
produces  on  the  whole  reading  world.     He  gives  me 

287 


Goethe's  Literary  Essays 

much  to  think  of;  and  I  discover  in  him  a  wholly  new 
art,  with  laws  of  its  own. 

We  read  far  too  many  poor  things,  thus  losing  time, 
and  gaining  nothing.  We  should  only  read  what  we 
admire,  as  I  did  in  my  youth,  and  as  I  now  experience 
with  Sir  Walter  Scott.  I  have  just  begun  Roh  Roy, 
and  will  read  his  best  novels  in  succession.  All  is  great 
— material,  import,  characters,  execution ;  and  then 
what  infinite  diligence  in  the  preparatory  studies !  what 
truth  of  detail  in  the  execution!  We  see,  too,  what 
English  history  is ;  and  what  a  thing  it  is  when  such 
an  inheritance  falls  to  the  lot  of  a  clever  poet.  Our 
German  history,  in  five  volumes,  is,  on  the  other  hand, 
sheer  poverty. 

It  is  a  peculiarity  of  Walter  Scott's  that  his  great 
talent  in  representing  details  often  leads  him  into  faults. 
Thus,  in  Ivanhoe,  there  is  a  scene  where  they  are  seated 
at  a  table  in  a  castle-hall  at  night,  and  a  stranger 
enters.  Now,  he  is  quite  right  in  describing  the  stran- 
ger's appearance  and  dress,  but  it  is  a  fault  that  he 
goes  to  the  length  of  describing  his  feet,  shoes,  and 
stockings.  When  we  sit  down  in  the  evening,  and  some 
one  comes  in,  we  see  only  the  upper  part  of  his  body. 
If  I  describe  the  feet,  daylight  enters  at  once,  and  the 
scene  loses  its  nocturnal  character. 


288 


APPENDIX 

I.    On  the  Selection  and  Translation  of  the  Essays 
In  this  Volume. 
II.    On  the  Chronology  of  Goethe's  Critical  Studies. 


APPENDIX 

I.    On  the  Selection  and  Translation  of  the  Essays  in  this 

Volume 

This  book  was  first  suggested  to  me  in  1909^  and  was 
virtually  completed  seven  or  eight  years  ago ;  but  the  manu- 
script was  mislaid  among  some  old  papers,  and  when  it 
was  recovered  the  European  War  was  at  its  height. 
Never  again,  it  then  seemed,  could  I  regard  my  work 
with  the  same  disinterested  temper  in  which  it  was 
begun,  for  what  was  recovered  was  no  longer  a  manu- 
script but  a  ghost,  no  longer  a  book  but  a  strange 
spirit  returned  from  an  all  too  irrecoverable  past.  When 
I  re-read  these  words  from  the  lips  of  one  who  had  spent 
his  life  "  with  spirits  god-like  mild,"  and  related  them  to 
our  new  and  altered  world,  I  understood  once  more  how 
man  forever  fashions  history  to  his  own  meaning,  and  how 
it  has  no  life  except  such  as  is  given  to  it  by  his  creative 
mind.  Every  word  I  now  read  assumed  a  new  and  height- 
ened significance,  a  more  intimate  relation  with  life;  and 
every  word  was  a  call  to  sympathy  and  understanding, — 
the  word  of  a  man  who  had  withheld  all  hate  from  enemy 
France,  had  praised  England  and  its  literature,  had  anal- 
yzed the  defects  of  his  own  countrymen,  and  had  made 
constant  denial  of  the  compatability  of  poetry  and  par- 
tisanship. How  could  I  approach  work  of  this  kind  in  the 
spirit  of  the  fiery  national  partisan,  not  to  mention  that  of 
the  mere  dryasdust  scholar,  when  every  word  Goethe  uttered 
shed  light  and  meaning  on  the  warm  life  about  me,  and 
every  accent  of  his  voice  taught  a  high  forebearance  ?  So 
when  on  sick-leave  from  my  regiment  at  the  very  end  of 
1917,  to  while  away   the  tediousness  of  convalescence,   I 

291 


Appendioj 

played  once  more  with  the  work  begun  in  the  old  days  when 
I  was  still  able  to  live  in  "  the  wise  man's  only  country. 
Life";  and  before  I  sailed  for  France,  leaving  behind  me 
the  manuscript  as  it  here  stands,  I  determined  that 
if  it  were  ever  published,  I  should  add  nothing  in  the  form 
of  preface,  introduction,  or  critical  apparatus,  but  allow 
Goethe  to  speak  for  himself  to  such  hearts  as  could  hear 
and  understand  him.  Some  readers  may  find  a  key  to  that 
understanding  if  they  begin  with  the  famous  passage  on 
"Poetry  and  Patriotism"  on  page  251. 

No  adequate  estimate  of  Goethe's  critical  work  has  yet 
been  achieved;  and  the  sensible  but  unilluminating  chapter 
on  this  subject  in  the  late  Calvin  Thomas's  Goethe  is 
not  much  more  disappointing  than  the  more  extended 
studies  in  German  of  Oskar  Walzel  and  Wilhelm  Bode. 
For  a  complete  estimate  of  Goethe  as  a  critic  we  should 
have  to  ransack  all  his  essays  and  reviews,  his  novels  and 
poems,  his  autobiography  and  his  journals,  his  letters  and 
conversations,  for  in  all  of  them  he  has  scattered  judgments 
on  books  and  thoughts  on  the  theory  of  art.  It  would  al- 
most seem  as  if  his  reputation  as  a  critic  rests  more  securely 
on  these  casual  utterances  than  on  his  formal  essays  and 
studies.  There  more  than  elsewhere  Sainte-Beauve  and 
Matthew  Arnold  recognized  "the  supreme  critic";  there 
above  all  we  find  that  mellow  wisdom  which  we  have  come 
to  associate  with  Goethe's  name. 

In  this  little  volume,  however,  we  have  most  of  Goethe's 
successive  moods  represented  by  some  characteristic  utter- 
ance,— the  young  reviewer,  the  lover  of  Shakespeare  and 
Gothic  art,  rebelling  against  schools  and  rules  but  most  of 
all  against  dullness  and  formality;  the  contributor  to  Wie- 
land's  German  Mercury,  the  collaborator  of  Schiller  in  the 
Horen  and  in  an  exchange  of  letters  of  incomparable  inter- 
est, after  the  life  of  Weimar  and  the  journey  to  Italy  had 
mellowed  his  talents;  the  student  of  art  and  aesthetics  in 
the  Propylaen,  championing  the  antique  spirit  and  voicing 
292 


Appendioo 

a  protest  against  the  excesses  of  romanticism;  the  more 
thoughtful  but  still  sympathetic  student  of  Shakespeare, 
enthOsiastic  in  Wilhelm  Meister,  more  temperate  in  Shake- 
speare ad  Infinitum;  the  mature  reviewer,  welcoming  the 
publication  of  old  German  and  foreign  folksongs,  and  hail- 
ing in  turn  Byron,  Manzoni,  Carlyle,  Niebuhr,  and  all  the 
young  French  and  German  writers  of  his  day;  and  finally, 
the  literary  dictator  in  his  old  age,  as  shown  in  the  careless 
and  incessant  wisdom  of  his  recorded  conversation.  We 
have  here,  it  is  true,  a  very  small  part  of  his  extraordinary 
output,  but  quite  enough  to  form  a  just  judgment  of  his 
place  among  the  great  critics.  In  a  career  so  extended  and 
a  mind  so  active  and  all-embracing  we  must  expect  to  find 
inconsistencies  and  errors  of  judgment.  Some  of  the  ideas 
in  this  volume  have  only  an  historical  interest;  a  perverse 
mind  might  indeed  garner  from  it  an  anthology  of  critical 
errors.  It  was  not  these  which  won  for  him  from  so  many 
the  title  of  "  supreme  critic,"  but  rather  the  sanity,  insight, 
and  impartiality  of  his  mind  and  his  extraordinary  gift  for 
foreseeing  the  direction  of  critical  thought. 

All  of  the  selections  in  Part  I,  except  the  essay  on  "  Ger- 
man Architecture,"  have  been  taken  from  Goethe's  Essays 
on  ^rf,  translated  by  S.  G.  Ward  (Boston,  1845).  Wilhelm 
Meister's  critique  of  Hamlet  has  been  excerpted  from  Car- 
lyle's  rendering  of  Wilhelm  Meister's  Lehrjahre.  The  ver- 
sion of  John  Oxenford  has  been  used  for  the  selections 
from  the  Conversations  with  Eckermann,  and  Oxenford's 
version,  as  revised  by  Miss  M.  S.  Smith,  for  the  selection 
from  Goethe's  Autobiography.  The  remaining  essays  were 
translated  by  the  late  Randolph  S.  Bourne,  by  Professor 
F.  W.  J.  Heuser,  and  by  myself.  I  am  indebted  to  Mr. 
Bourne  for  translating  the  following  essays :  "  On  Ger- 
man Architecture,"  "  Shakespeare  ad  Infinitum,"  "  The 
First  Edition  of  Hamlet,"  "  Troilus  and  Cressida,"  "  The 
Methods  of  French  Criticism,"  "  Supplement  to  Aristotle's 
Poetics"  "  Tieck's  Dramaturgic  Fragments,"  "  On  the  Ger- 

293 


Appendia^ 

man  Theatre/*  "  Didactic  Poetry/*  "  Superstition  and 
Poetry/'  "  The  Theory  of  a  World  Literature/'  "  Byron's 
Manfred/*  *'  Byron's  Don  Juan,"  "  Calderon's  Daughter  of 
the  Air"  "  Moliere's  Misanthrope"  **  Folksongs  again 
Commended/'  and  "  Laurence  Sterne."  Professor  Heuser 
has  translated  the  following:  "  The  Production  of  a  Na- 
tional Classic/'  "  Epic  and  Dramatic  Poetry/'  and  "  Eng- 
lish Reviewers."  I  have  made  material  changes  and  cor- 
rections in  almost  all  the  translations,  but  on  the  whole 
each  translator  should  be  held  responsible  for  the  accuracy 
and  style  of  his  own  work.  For  the  selection  and  arrange- 
ment of  the  material,  and  for  the  titles  given  to  some  of 
the  excerpts,  I  am  alone  responsible. 

Some  of  Goethe's  judgments  on  books,  and  his  maxims 
on  life  and  art,  have  already  appeared  in  volumes  of  selec- 
tions in  English  translation;  but  no  other  work  in  any 
language,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  attempts  to  include  in  a 
single  volume  the  whole  range  of  Goethe's  critical  and 
aesthetic  studies.  Some  of  the  selections  have  never  before 
appeared  in  English. 

J.  E.  S. 

Troutbeck,  May,  1919. 


Since  the  above  was  written,  I  have  become  greatly 
indebted  to  Lord  Haldane  for  contributing  the  Foreword, 
and  especially  to  Professor  Friedrich  Bruns  for  reading 
the  proofsheets  and  revising  some  of  the  translations.  Miss 
L.  Bonino  has  prepared  the  Index.  J.  E.  S. 

New  York^  September,  1921. 


294 


II.    On  the  Chronology  of  Goethe's  Critical  Studies 

The  following  chronology  of  Goethe's  critical  activity  is 
intended  chiefly  to  indicate  the  original  sources  of  the 
selections  in  the  present  volume. 

1772-73.    Reviews  in  the  Frankfurter  gelehrten  Anzetgen: 

Goethe    as    a    Young    Reviewer    (reviews    of    Blum's 

Lyrische    Gedichte,    and    Sulzer's    Cymhelline,    ein 

Trauerspiel,  nach  einem  von  Shakespeare  erfundnen 

Staff e,  both  translated  in  full). 

1773.    Von  deutscher  Baukunst: 

On  German  Architecture  (complete  translation). 
1788  sq.  Articles  in  Wieland's  Teutscher  Merkur: 

Simple    Imitation   of    Nature,   Manner,   Style    {XJher 
Italien:  Einfache  Nachahmung  der  Natur,  Manier, 
Stil,  complete  translation). 
1794-1805.    Correspondence  of  Goethe  and  Schiller: 

Epic    and    Dramatic    Poetry    (complete   translation); 
also  footnote  on  page  104. 
1795-96.    Wilhelm  Meister*s  Lehrjahre: 

Wilhelm  Meister's  Critique  of  Hamlet, 
1795-97.    Articles  in  Die  Horen: 

The  Production  of  a  National  Classic   (Literarischer 
SansculottismuSy  complete  translation  except  for  four 
introductory  paragraphs). 
1798-1800.    Articles  in  Die  Propylden: 
Introduction  to  the  Propylaea. 
On  Laocoon   (complete  translation). 
On  Truth  and  Probability  in  Works  of  Art  (complete 

translation). 
The  Collector  and  his  Friends. 
Notes  on  Dillettantism.     (By  Goethe  and  Schiller). 

295 


Appendioj 

1804  sq.    Reviews  in  the  Jenaische  Allgemeine  Literatur- 
zeitung: 

Old  German  Folksongs  (review  of  Des  Knahen  Wun- 
derhorn,  translated  in  full  except  that  only  a  few 
of  Goethe's  characterizations  of  individual  poems  are 
included). 
1811-14.    Dichtung  und  Wahrheit  (Autobiography): 

German  Literature  in  Goethe's  Youth   (selected  pas- 
sages from  part  ii,  book  7)  ;  also  footnote  on  page  14 
(from  part  ii,  book  10). 
1815  sq.    Articles  in  the  Morgenblatt  fiir  gehildete  Stdnde: 

Shakespeare  ad  Infinitum,  parts  i-ii,  written  1813 
{Shakespeare  und  kein  Ende,  complete  translation). 

On  the  German  Theatre  (complete  translation). 
!1816-S2.    Articles  in  Uber  Kunst  und  Alterthum: 

Ancient  and  Modern. 

The  Theory  of  a  World  Literature,  part  i  (review  of 
Duval's  Le  Tasse),  part  ii  {Beziige  nach  Aussen, 
complete  translation),  part  iii  (Edinburgh  Reviews) , 
part  V  (review  of  Carlyle's  Leben  Schillers). 

Supplement  to  Aristotle's  Poetics  (complete  transla- 
tion). 

On  Didactic  Poetry  (complete  translation). 

Superstition  and  Poetry  (Justus  Moser). 

The  Methods  of  French  Critics  (Urteilsworte  franso- 
sischer  Kritiker,  complete  translation). 

On  Criticism,  §  1  (review  of  Manzoni's  Carmagnola), 
§  3  (review  of  Rochlitz's  Fiir  Freunde  der  Ton- 
kunst). 

The  First  Edition  of  Hamlet  (complete  translation). 

Byron's  Manfred  (complete  translation). 

Byron's  Don  Juan  (complete  translation). 

Calderon's  Daughter  of  the  Air  (complete  translation). 

Moliere's  Misanthrope  (review  of  Taschereau's  His- 
toire  de  la  Vie  et  des  Ouvrages  de  Moliere,  complete 
translation) . 

296 


AppendioJ 

Shakespeare  ad  Infinitum,  part  iii,  written  1816,  pub- 
lished 1826   (complete  translation). 

Folksongs   again   Commended    (complete  translation). 

Laurence  Sterne  (complete  translation). 

The   English    Reviewers    (review   of   Manzoni's   Car- 
magnola) . 
1822-32.    Gesprdche  mit  Goethe  in  den  letzten  Jahren  seines 
Lehens,  by  J,  P.  Eckermann  (published  1836-48) : 

Extracts  from  Goethe's  Conversations  with  Eckermann. 
Posthumous  Works  (Nachgelassene  Werhe,  1833): 

Tieck's    Dramaturgic    Fragments    (complete    transla- 
lation). 

Troilus  and  Cressida  (JJher  die  Parodie  hei  den  Alien). 


297 


INDEX 


INDEX 


Anacreon,  239. 

Aristotle,  104  sg. 

Arnault,  Antoine  Vincent,  258. 

Arnim,  Achim  von,  213  sg. 

Bliimner,  Heinrich,  184, 
Blum,  J.  C,  199  sq. 
Blumauer,  Alois,  206. 
Bodmer,    Johann    Jakob,    233, 

239. 
Breitinger,  Johann  Jakob,  231, 

233. 
Brentano,  Clemens,  213  sq. 
Biirger,  Gottfried  August,  74, 

262. 
Burns,  Robert,  262. 
Byron,    202  sq.,    263,    268,    270, 

276,  279,  283  sq. 

Calderon,  208  sq.,  251,  269,  273, 

276. 
Carlyle,  Thomas,  267  sq.,  293. 
Characteristic  art,   11,  37. 
Chinese  literature,  249. 
Chodowiecki,    Daniel    Nicolaus, 

67. 
Claudius,  Matthias,  74. 
Cousin,  Victor,   97. 
Criticism,  theory   of,   134,   140, 

224,  230,  276,  283. 

Diderot,  Denys,  138. 

Drama,  and  Theatre,  50,  75,  79, 

100,   104,   109,   126,   158,   170, 

179,  184,  190,  268  ^g. 
Diirer,  Albrecht,  13. 

Erwin  von  Steinbach,  3,  7,  10, 
12. 


Fabroni,  Angelo,  40. 
Folksongs,  213,  220,  267. 
Frederick  the  Great,  241. 
Furnstein,  Anton,  259. 

Gellert,   Christian   Fiirchtegott, 

232. 
Gessner,   Salomon,   74,  239. 
Gleim,    Johann    Wilhelm    Lud- 

wig,  236,  242,  244. 
Goldsmith,  Oliver,  256. 
Gottsched,    Johann    Christoph, 

230  sq.,  239  sq. 
Gozzi,  Count  Carlo,  272. 
Gries,  Johann  Dietrich,  210. 
Grimm,      Friedrich      Melchior, 

Baron  von,  138  sq. 
Guizot,    Francois    Pierre    Guil- 

laume,  97. 
Giinther,  Johann  Christian,  234. 

Haller,  Albrecht  von,  235. 
Hamann,  Johann  Georg,  14. 
Handel,  Georg  Friedrich,  107. 
Herder,  Johann  Gottfried  von, 

14,  262. 
Hirt,  Alois,  36. 
Homer,   10,   240. 
Horace,       136,      199  sq.,      231, 

239  sq. 
Hugo,  Victor,  279  sq. 
Humboldt,       Karl        Wilhelm, 

Baron  von,  257. 
Huysum,  Jan  van,  62. 

Iffland,  August  Wilhelm,  113. 


Johnson,  Samuel,  201. 


301 


Index 


Kant,  Immanuel,  257. 

Kleist,    Ewald    Christian    von, 

240  sq. 
Kleist,  Heinrich  von,  126. 
Klopstock,    Friedrich    Gottlieb, 

74,  112,  236,  244. 
Konig,     Johann      Ulrich     von, 

233  sq. 
Korner,  Theodor,  251. 

Laocoon,   22,   24  5^.,   33  sg.,   39, 

42. 
Laugier,  Marc  Antoine,  14. 
Leonardo   da   Vinci,  68,  256. 
Lessing,  38,  112,  232,  236,  244, 

257,  269. 
Lichtenberg,    Georg    Christoph, 

206. 
Lichtwer,  M.  G.,  232. 
Liscow,  Christian  Ludwig,  228. 
Lowell,  James  Russell,  179. 

Mannerists,  36,  64,  67. 
Manzoni,   Aiessandro,  205,  253, 

268. 
Matthisson,  Friedrich  von,  250. 
Menander,  275. 
Merimee,    Prosper,    278  5^. 
Michelangelo,   68. 
Milton,  240. 
Moliere,   212,   269,  212  sq. 

Napoleon,  252. 

Nicolai,     Christoph     Friedrich, 

201. 
Niebuhr,  B.  G.,  293. 
Novel,  the,  170. 

Oeser,    Adam    Friedrich,    237. 
Originality,  255. 

Perugino,  68. 

Pindar,  240. 

Plato,  256. 

Pope,  Alexander,  239,   284. 

Rabener,      Gottlieb      Wilhelm, 

228  sq. 
Ramler,  Karl  Wilhelm,  235  sq., 

242. 

302 


Raphael,  68. 

Richardson,  Samuel,  249. 
Romanticism,    179,   263,   277. 
Rubens,  69. 
Ruysch,   Rachel,  62. 

Schelling,     Friedrich     Wilhelm 

Joseph  von,  267. 
SchiUer,    38,    100,    104,    109  sg., 

115  sq.,  119  sq.,  129,  184,  191, 

255,  257,  264  sq.,  268,  272  sq., 

282   sq.,  292. 
Schlegel,  August  Wilhelm  von, 

257,  269,  21Qsq. 
Schlegel,    Friedrich    von,    257, 

269. 
Schlegel,  Johann  Elias,  239. 
Schroeder,    Friedrich     Ludwig, 

124,   188  5g. 
^chubarth,  Karl  Ernst,  65. 
Scott,   Sir   Walter,   2SQ  sq. 
Seylerin     (i.e.,     Sophie    Fried- 

rike   Seyler),   118. 
Shakespeare,    65  ^g.,    124,    127, 

136,    145  5g.,    171  5g.,    181  5g., 

200  sg.,      204,     20Q  sq.,     225, 

238,    254,    256,    268  *g.,    272, 

275,  284. 
Steevens,   George,   193. 
Sterne,  Laurence,  222,  256. 
Style,  61,  265. 
Sulzer,  J.  G.,  200  ^g. 

Taschereau,  J.,  212. 
Theatre,  see  Drama. 
Thomson,   James,   252. 
Tieck,   Ludwig,   126  ^g. 

Uvaroff,  Count,  137. 

Villemain,    Abel    Francois,    97. 

Virgil,  34  5g.,  240. 

Voss,  Johann  Heinrich,  262. 

Wieland,  Christoph  Martin, 
74,  86,  164,  236  *g.,  292. 

Winckelmann,  Johann  Joachim, 
38,  257. 

World   Literature,   89  5g.,   267. 


