UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/graniterainbowesOOwool 


GRANITE  AND  RAINBOW 


BOOKS  BY  VIRGINIA  WOOLF 

The  Voyage  Out,  1915 

Night  and  Day,  1919 

Kew  Gardens,  1919 

Monday  or  Tuesday,  192 1 

Jacob's  Room,  1922 

The  Common  Reader:  First  Series,  1925 

Mrs.  Dalloway,  1925 

To  the  Lighthouse,  1927 

Orlando,  1928 

A  Room  of  One's  Own,  1929 

The  Waves,  1 93 1 

Letter  to  a  Young  Poet,  1932 

The  Common  Reader:  Second  Series.  1932 

Flush,  1933 

The  Years,  1 937 

Three  Guineas,  1938 

Roger  Fry:  A  Biography,  1940 

Between  the  Acts,  1 94 1 

The  Death  of  the  Moth,  1942 

A  Haunted  House,  1944 

The  Moment  and  other  Essays,  1947 

The  Captain's  Deathbed  and  other  Essays,  1950 

A  Writer's  Diary,  1954 

Virginia  Woolf  and  Lytton  Strachey:  Letters,  1956 


GRANITE 
AND  RAINBOW 

Essays  by  g^-/D$ff 
VIRGINIA  WOOLF 


HARCOURT,   BRACE 
AND   COMPANY 

NEW  YORK 


©  1958  by  Leonard  Woolf 

All  rights  reserved.  No  part  of  this  book  may  be 

reproduced  in  any  form  or  by  any  mechanical  means, 

including  mimeograph  and  tape  recorder,  without 

permission  in  writing  from  the  publisher. 

first  American  edition 


Library  of  Congress  Catalog  Card  Number:  58-10898 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


CONTENTS 

Editorial  Note  page  7 

PART  I  :    THE  ART  OF  FICTION 

The  Narrow  Bridge  of  Art  1 1 

Hours  in  a  Library  24 

Impassioned  Prose  32 

Life  and  the  Novelist  41 

On  Rereading  Meredith  48 

The  Anatomy  of  Fiction  53 

Gothic  Romance  57 

The  Supernatural  in  Fiction  61 

Henry  James's  Ghost  Stories  65 

A  Terribly  Sensitive  Mind  73 

Women  and  Fiction  76 

An  Essay  in  Criticism  85 

Phases  of  Fiction  93 

PART  II:    THE  ART  OF  BIOGRAPHY 

The  New  Biography  149 

A  Talk  About  Memoirs  156 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh  162 

Sterne                                           •  167 

Eliza  and  Sterne  176 

Horace  Walpole  181 

A  Friend  of  Johnson  187 

Fanny  Burney's  Half-Sister  192 

Money  and  Love  205 

The  Dream  2 1 2 


6  CONTENTS 

The  Fleeting  Portrait: 

i .  Waxworks  at  the  Abbey  216 

2.  The  Royal  Academy  219 

Poe's  Helen  225 

Visits  to  Walt  Whitman  229 

Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  232 


EDITORIAL  NOTE 

VIRGINIA  WOOLF  published  during  her  life  two  vol- 
umes of  collected  essays :  The  Common  Reader,  First  and 
Second  Series.  After  her  death  I  took  steps  to  gather  together 
her  essays  which  had  not  been  included  in  those  volumes. 
There  were  a  considerable  number  of  them ;  most  of  them 
had  been  published  in  journals,  but  a  few  had  never  been 
published.  They  proved  sufficient  to  fill  three  posthumous 
volumes:  The  Death  of  the  Moth,  1942;  The  Moment,  1947, 
and  The  Captain's  Death  Bed,  1950.  I  included  in  those 
volumes  only  those  essays  which  seemed  to  me  of  the  same 
order  of  excellence  as  those  which  she  herself  had  chosen  to 
reprint  in  The  Common  Reader.  When  I  published  The  Cap- 
tain's Death  Bed,  I  thought  that  I  had  been  able  to  identify 
all  the  essays  which  had  appeared  in  journals  and  I  wrote 
in  the  Editorial  Note  to  that  volume  that  it  would  be  the 
last  book  of  collected  essays,  since  I  had  now  included  in  the 
posthumous  volumes  all  her  essays,  with  a  few  unimportant 
exceptions. 

I  was  mistaken  about  this,  for  those  who  had  searched  the 
records,  including  myself,  had  overlooked  a  considerable 
number  of  essays  of  the  same  kind  and  of  the  same  merit  as 
those  published  in  the  five  volumes.  There  were  several 
reasons  for  this.  Virginia  Woolf  only  spasmodically  kept 
copies  of  essays  and  reviews  written  by  her  for  journals  and 
there  was  often  no  record  of  their  publication  among  her 
papers.  This  accounted  for  the  fact  that  the  existence  of 
the  long  essay,  Phases  of  Fiction,  published  in  The  Bookman  in 
1929,  was  forgotten.  Another  difficulty  was  that  so  many  of 
her  essays  appeared  anonymously  in  papers  like  the  Times 
Literary  Supplement,  and  a  further  complication,  not  noticed 
by  the  searchers,  was  that  in  some  cases  they  had  been 
written  under  her  maiden  name,  Virginia  Stephen.  The 
discovery  of  the  essays  now  published  was  due  to  the  zeal 


EDITORIAL   NOTE 

and  intelligence  of  Miss  B.  L.  Kirkpatrick  and  Dr.  Mary 
Lyon.  Miss  Kirkpatrick  has  devoted  infinite  pains  to  the 
preparation  of  her  Bibliography  of  Virginia  Woolf.  Dr.  Lyon 
is  Director  of  Graduate  Residence  of  Radcliffe  College, 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  and  teacher  of  a  literature  course  at 
Harvard  University.  She  is  writing  a  book  on  Virginia 
Woolf  as  Critic,  and  came  to  England  on  a  visit  in  order  to 
do  some  research  on  her  subject.  She  took  much  trouble  to 
determine  what  had  or  had  not  been  published  and  re- 
published. Without  the  work  of  Miss  Kirkpatrick  and  Dr. 
Mary  Lyon  I  should  never  have  found  the  essays  now  pub- 
lished in  this  volume.  The  journals  in  which  they  first  ap- 
peared are  given  by  me  in  footnotes  to  the  essays. 

LEONARD    WOOLF 


PART    I 

THE  ART  OF  FICTION 


The  Narrow  Bridge  of  Art1 

FAR  the  greater  number  of  critics  turn  their  backs  upon 
the  present  and  gaze  steadily  into  the  past.  Wisely,  no 
doubt,  they  make  no  comment  upon  what  is  being  actually 
written  at  the  moment;  they  leave  that  duty  to  the  race  of 
reviewers  whose  very  title  seems  to  imply  transiency  in  them- 
selves and  in  the  objects  they  survey.  But  one  has  sometimes 
asked  oneself,  must  the  duty  of  the  critic  always  be  to  the 
past,  must  his  gaze  always  be  fixed  backward?  Could  he  not 
sometimes  turn  round  and,  shading  his  eyes  in  the  manner 
of  Robinson  Crusoe  on  the  desert  island,  look  into  the  future 
and  trace  on  its  mist  the  faint  lines  of  the  land  which  some 
day  perhaps  we  may  reach?  The  truth  of  such  speculations 
can  never  be  proved,  of  course,  but  in  an  age  like  ours  there 
is  a  great  temptation  to  indulge  in  them.  For  it  is  an  age 
clearly  when  we  are  not  fast  anchored  where  we  are;  things 
are  moving  round  us;  we  are  moving  ourselves.  Is  it  not  the 
critic's  duty  to  tell  us,  or  to  guess  at  least,  where  we  are 
going? 

Obviously  the  inquiry  must  narrow  itself  very  strictly,  but 
it  might  perhaps  be  possible  in  a  short  space  to  take  one 
instance  of  dissatisfaction  and  difficulty,  and,  having  exam- 
ined into  that,  we  might  be  the  better  able  to  guess  the 
direction  in  which,  when  we  have  surmounted  it,  we  shall  go. 

Nobody  indeed  can  read  much  modern  literature  without 
being  aware  that  some  dissatisfaction,  some  difficulty,  is 
lying  in  our  way.  On  all  sides  writers  are  attempting  what 
they  cannot  achieve,  are  forcing  the  form  they  use  to  contain 
a  meaning  which  is  strange  to  it.  Many  reasons  might  be 
given,  but  here  let  us  select  only  one,  and  that  is  the  failure 
of  poetry  to  serve  us  as  it  has  served  so  many  generations  of 
our  fathers.  Poetry  is  not  lending  her  services  to  us  nearly  as 
1  New  York  Herald  Tribune,  August  14,  1927. 
I  I 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

freely  as  she  did  to  them.  The  great  channel  of  expression 
which  has  carried  away  so  much  energy,  so  much  genius, 
seems  to  have  narrowed  itself  or  to  have  turned  aside. 

That  is  true  only  within  certain  limits  of  course;  our  age  is 
rich  in  lyric  poetry;  no  age  perhaps  has  been  richer.  But  for 
our  generation  and  the  generation  that  is  coming  the  lyric 
cry  of  ecstasy  or  despair,  which  is  so  intense,  so  personal,  and 
so  limited,  is  not  enough.  The  mind  is  full  of  monstrous, 
hybrid,  unmanageable  emotions.  That  the  age  of  the  earth  is 
3,000,000,000  years;  that  human  life  lasts  but  a  second;  that 
the  capacity  of  the  human  mind  is  nevertheless  boundless; 
that  life  is  infinitely  beautiful  yet  repulsive;  that  one's  fellow 
creatures  are  adorable  but  disgusting;  that  science  and 
religion  have  between  them  destroyed  belief;  that  all  bonds 
of  union  seem  broken,  yet  some  control  must  exist — it  is  in 
this  atmosphere  of  doubt  and  conflict  that  writers  have  now 
to  create,  and  the  fine  fabric  of  a  lyric  is  no  more  fitted  to 
contain  this  point  of  view  than  a  rose  leaf  to  envelop  the 
rugged  immensity  of  a  rock. 

But  when  we  ask  ourselves  what  has  in  the  past  served  to 
express  such  an  attitude  as  this — an  attitude  which  is  full  of 
contrast  and  collision;  an  attitude  which  seems  to  demand 
the  conflict  of  one  character  upon  another,  and  at  the  same 
time  to  stand  in  need  of  some  general  shaping  power,  some 
conception  which  lends  the  whole  harmony  and  force,  we 
must  reply  that  there  was  a  form  once,  and  it  was  not  the 
form  of  lyric  poetry;  it  was  the  form  of  the  drama,  of  the 
poetic  drama  of  the  Elizabethan  age.  And  that  is  the  one  form 
which  seems  dead  beyond  all  possibility  of  resurrection  to-day. 

For  if  we  look  at  the  state  of  the  poetic  play  we  must  have 
grave  doubts  that  any  force  on  earth  can  now  revive  it.  It 
has  been  practised  and  is  still  practised  by  writers  of  the 
highest  genius  and  ambition.  Since  the  death  of  Dryden 
every  great  poet  it  seems  has  had  his  fling.  Wordsworth  and 
Coleridge,  Shelley  and  Keats,  Tennyson,  Swinburne,  and 
Browning  (to  name  the  dead  only)  have  all  written  poetic 
plays,  but  none  has  succeeded.  Of  all  the  plays  they  wrote, 
probably  only  Swinburne's  Atalanta  and  Shelley's  Prometheus 

12 


THE    NARROW    BRIDGE     OF    ART 

are  still  read,  and  they  less  frequently  than  other  works  by 
the  same  writers.  All  the  rest  have  climbed  to  the  top  shelves 
of  our  bookcases,  put  their  heads  under  their  wings,  and 
gone  to  sleep.  No  one  will  willingly  disturb  those  slumbers. 

Yet  it  is  tempting  to  try  to  find  some  explanation  of  this 
failure  in  case  it  should  throw  light  upon  the  future  which 
we  are  considering.  The  reason  why  poets  can  no  longer 
write  poetic  plays  lies  somewhere  perhaps  in  this  direction. 

There  is  a  vague,  mysterious  thing  called  an  attitude 
toward  life.  We  all  know  people — if  we  turn  from  literature 
to  life  for  a  moment — who  are  at  loggerheads  with  exist- 
ence; unhappy  people  who  never  get  what  they  want;  are 
baffled,  complaining,  who  stand  at  an  uncomfortable  angle 
whence  they  see  everything  askew.  There  are  others  again 
who,  though  they  appear  perfectly  content,  seem  to  have 
lost  all  touch  with  reality.  They  lavish  all  their  affections 
upon  little  dogs  and  old  china.  They  take  interest  in  nothing 
but  the  vicissitudes  of  their  own  health  and  the  ups  and 
downs  of  social  snobbery.  There  are,  however,  others  who 
strike  us,  why  precisely  it  would  be  difficult  to  say,  as  being 
by  nature  or  circumstances  in  a  position  where  they  can  use 
their  faculties  to  the  full  upon  things  that  are  of  importance. 
They  are  not  necessarily  happy  or  successful,  but  there  is  a 
zest  in  their  presence,  an  interest  in  their  doings.  They  seem 
alive  all  over.  This  may  be  partly  the  result  of  circumstances 
— they  have  been  born  into  surroundings  that  suit  them — 
but  much  more  is  the  result  of  some  happy  balance  of 
qualities  in  themselves  so  that  they  see  things  not  at  an 
awkward  angle,  all  askew;  nor  distorted  through  a  mist; 
but  four  square,  in  proportion;  they  grasp  something  hard; 
when  they  come  into  action  they  cut  real  ice. 

A  writer  too  has  in  the  same  way  an  attitude  toward  life, 
though  it  is  a  different  life  from  the  other.  They  too  can 
stand  at  an  uncomfortable  angle;  can  be  baffled,  frustrated, 
unable  to  get  at  what  they  want  as  writers.  This  is  true,  for 
example,  of  the  novels  of  George  Gissing.  Then,  again,  they 
can  retire  to  the  suburbs  and  lavish  their  interest  upon  pet 
dogs   and   duchesses — prettinesses,    sentimentalities,    snob- 

13 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

beries,  and  this  is  true  of  some  of  our  most  highly  successful 
novelists.  But  there  are  others  who  seem  by  nature  or  cir- 
cumstances so  placed  that  they  can  use  their  faculties  freely 
upon  important  things.  It  is  not  that  they  write  quickly  or 
easily,  or  become  at  once  successful  or  celebrated.  One  is 
rather  trying  to  analyse  a  quality  which  is  present  in  most 
of  the  great  ages  of  literature  and  is  most  marked  in  the  work 
of  Elizabethan  dramatists.  They  seem  to  have  an  attitude 
toward  life,  a  position  which  allows  them  to  move  their 
limbs  freely;  a  view  which,  though  made  up  of  all  sorts  of 
different  things,  falls  into  the  right  perspective  for  their 
purposes. 

In  part,  of  course,  this  was  the  result  of  circumstances. 
The  public  appetite,  not  for  books,  but  for  the  drama,  the 
smallness  of  the  towns,  the  distance  which  separated  people, 
the  ignorance  in  which  even  the  educated  then  lived,  all 
made  it  natural  for  the  Elizabethan  imagination  to  fill  itself 
with  lions  and  unicorns,  dukes  and  duchesses,  violence  and 
mystery.  This  was  reinforced  by  something  which  we  cannot 
explain  so  simply,  but  which  we  can  certainly  feel.  They  had 
an  attitude  toward  life  which  made  them  able  to  express 
themselves  freely  and  fully.  Shakespeare's  plays  are  not  the 
work  of  a  baffled  and  frustrated  mind;  they  are  the  perfectly 
elastic  envelope  of  his  thought.  Without  a  hitch  he  turns 
from  philosophy  to  a  drunken  brawl;  from  love  songs  to  an 
argument;  from  simply  merriment  to  profound  speculation. 
And  it  is  true  of  all  the  Elizabethan  dramatists  that  though 
they  may  bore  us — and  they  do — they  never  make  us  feel 
that  they  are  afraid  or  self-conscious,  or  that  there  is  any- 
thing hindering,  hampering,  inhibiting  the  full  current  of 
their  minds. 

Yet  our  first  thought  when  we  open  a  modern  poetic  play 
— and  this  applies  to  much  modern  poetry — is  that  the 
writer  is  not  at  his  ease.  He  is  afraid,  he  is  forced,  he  is  self- 
conscious.  And  with  what  good  reason!  we  may  exclaim,  for 
which  of  us  is  perfectly  at  his  ease  with  a  man  in  a  toga  called 
Xenocrates,  or  with  a  woman  in  a  blanket  called  Eudoxa? 
Yet  for  some  reason  the  modern  poetic  play  is  always  about 

14 


THE     NARROW    BRIDGE     OF    ART 

Xenocrates  and  not  about  Mr.  Robinson;  it  is  about  Thes- 
saly  and  not  about  Charing  Cross  Road.  When  the  Eliza- 
bethans laid  their  scenes  in  foreign  parts  and  made  their 
heroes  and  heroines  princes  and  princesses  they  only  shifted 
the  scene  from  one  side  to  the  other  of  a  very  thin  veil.  It 
was  a  natural  device  which  gave  depth  and  distance  to  their 
figures.  But  the  country  remained  English;  and  the  Bohemian 
prince  was  the  same  person  as  the  English  noble.  Our 
modern  poetic  playwrights,  however,  seem  to  seek  the  veil 
of  the  past  and  of  distance  for  a  different  reason.  They  want 
not  a  veil  that  heightens  but  a  curtain  that  conceals;  they 
lay  their  scene  in  the  past  because  they  are  afraid  of  the 
present.  They  are  aware  that  if  they  tried  to  express  the 
thoughts,  the  visions,  the  sympathies  and  antipathies  which 
are  actually  turning  and  tumbling  in  their  brains  in  this  year 
of  grace  1927  the  poetic  decencies  would  be  violated;  they 
could  only  stammer  and  stumble  and  perhaps  have  to  sit 
down  or  to  leave  the  room.  The  Elizabethans  had  an  attitude 
which  allowed  them  complete  freedom;  the  modern  play- 
wright has  either  no  attitude  at  all,  or  one  so  strained  that  it 
cramps  his  limbs  and  distorts  his  vision.  He  has  therefore  to 
take  refuge  with  Xenocrates,  who  says  nothing  or  only  what 
blank  verse  can  with  decency  say. 

But  can  we  explain  ourselves  a  little  more  fully?  What  has 
changed,  what  has  happened,  what  has  put  the  writer  now 
at  such  an  angle  that  he  cannot  pour  his  mind  straight  into 
the  old  channels  of  English  poetry?  Some  sort  of  answer 
may  be  suggested  by  a  walk  through  the  streets  of  any  large 
town.  The  long  avenue  of  brick  is  cut  up  into  boxes,  each  of 
which  is  inhabited  by  a  different  human  being  who  has  put 
locks  on  his  doors  and  bolts  on  his  windows  to  ensure  some 
privacy,  yet  is  linked  to  his  fellows  by  wires  which  pass  over- 
head, by  waves  of  sound  which  pour  through  the  roof  and 
speak  aloud  to  him  of  battles  and  murders  and  strikes  and 
revolutions  all  over  the  world.  And  if  we  go  in  and  talk  to 
him  we  shall  find  that  he  is  a  wary,  secretive,  suspicious 
animal,  extremely  self-conscious,  extremely  careful  not  to 
give  himself  away.  Indeed,  there  is  nothing  in  modern  life 

15 


^ 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

which  forces  him  to  do  it.  There  is  no  violence  in  private 
life;  we  are  polite,  tolerant,  agreeable,  when  we  meet.  War 
even  is  conducted  by  companies  and  communities  rather 
than  by  individuals.  Duelling  is  extinct.  The  marriage  bond 
can  stretch  indefinitely  without  snapping.  The  ordinary 
person  is  calmer,  smoother,  more  self-contained  than  he 
used  to  be. 

But  again  we  should  find  if  we  took  a  walk  with  our 
friend  that  he  is  extremely  alive  to  everything — to  ugliness, 
sordidity,  beauty,  amusement.  He  follows  every  thought 
careless  where  it  may  lead  him.  He  discusses  openly  what 
used  never  to  be  mentioned  even  privately.  And  this  very 
freedom  and  curiosity  are  perhaps  the  cause  of  what  appears 
to  be  his  most  marked  characteristic — the  strange  way  in 
which  things  that  have  no  apparent  connection  are  asso- 
ciated in  his  mind.  Feelings  which  used  to  come  single  and 
separate  do  so  no  longer.  Beauty  is  part  ugliness;  amusement 
part  disgust;  pleasure  part  pain.  Emotions  which  used  to 
enter  the  mind  whole  are  now  broken  up  on  the  threshold. 

For  example:  It  is  a  spring  night,  the  moon  is  up,  the 
nightingale  singing,  the  willows  bending  over  the  river.  Yes, 
but  at  the  same  time  a  diseased  old  woman  is  picking  over 
her  greasy  rags  on  a  hideous  iron  bench.  She  and  the  spring 
enter  his  mind  together;  they  blend  but  do  not  mix.  The 
two  emotions,  so  incongruously  coupled,  bite  and  kick  at 
each  other  in  unison.  But  the  emotion  which  Keats  felt  when 
he  heard  the  song  of  the  nightingale  is  one  and  entire, 
though  it  passes  from  joy  in  beauty  to  sorrow  at  the  unhappi- 
ness  of  human  fate.  He  makes  no  contrast.  In  his  poem 
sorrow  is  the  shadow  which  accompanies  beauty.  In  the 
modern  mind  beauty  is  accompanied  not  by  its  shadow  but 
by  its  opposite.  The  modern  poet  talks  of  the  nightingale 
who  sings  'jug  jug  to  dirty  ears'.  There  trips  along  by  the 
side  of  our  modern  beauty  some  mocking  spirit  which  sneers 
at  beauty  for  being  beautiful;  which  turns  the  looking-glass 
and  shows  us  that  the  other  side  of  her  cheek  is  pitted  and 
deformed.  It  is  as  if  the  modern  mind,  wishing  always  to 
verify  its  emotions,  had  lost  the  power  of  accepting  anything 

16 


THE    NARROW    BRIDGE     OF    ART 

simply  for  what  it  is.  Undoubtedly  this  sceptical  and  testing 
spirit  has  led  to  a  great  freshening  and  quickening  of  soul. 
There  is  a  candour,  an  honesty  in  modern  writing  which  is 
salutary  if  not  supremely  delightful.  Modern  literature, 
which  had  grown  a  little  sultry  and  scented  with  Oscar 
Wilde  and  Walter  Pater,  revived  instantly  from  her  nine- 
teenth-century languor  when  Samuel  Butler  and  Bernard 
Shaw  began  to  burn  their  feathers  and  apply  their  salts  to 
her  nose.  She  awoke;  she  sat  up;  she  sneezed.  Naturally,  the 
poets  were  frightened  away. 

For  of  course  poetry  has  always  been  overwhelmingly  on 
the  side  of  beauty.  She  has  always  insisted  on  certain  rights, 
such  as  rhyme,  metre,  poetic  diction.  She  has  never  been 
used  for  the  common  purpose  of  life.  Prose  has  taken  all  the 
dirty  work  on  to  her  own  shoulders;  has  answered  letters, 
paid  bills,  written  articles,  made  speeches,  served  the  needs 
of  businessmen,  shopkeepers,  lawyers,  soldiers,  peasants. 

Poetry  has  remained  aloof  in  the  possession  of  her  priests. 
She  has  perhaps  paid  the  penalty  for  this  seclusion  by  becom- 
ing a  little  stiff.  Her  presence  with  all  her  apparatus — her 
veils,  her  garlands,  her  memories,  her  associations — affects 
us  the  moment  she  speaks.  Thus  when  we  ask  poetry  to 
express  this  discord,  this  incongruity,  this  sneer,  this  contrast, 
this  curiosity,  the  quick,  queer  emotions  which  are  bred  in 
small  separate  rooms,  the  wide,  general  ideas  which  civiliza- 
tion teaches,  she  cannot  move  quickly  enough,  simply 
enough,  or  broadly  enough  to  do  it.  Her  accent  is  too 
marked;  her  manner  too  emphatic.  She  gives  us  instead 
lovely  lyric  cries  of  passion;  with  a  majestic  sweep  of  her  arm 
she  bids  us  take  refuge  in  the  past;  but  she  does  not  keep 
pace  with  the  mind  and  fling  herself  subtly,  quickly,  pas- 
sionately into  its  various  sufferings  and  joys.  Byron  in  Don 
Juan  pointed  the  way;  he  showed  how  flexible  an  instrument 
poetry  might  become,  but  none  has  followed  his  example  or 
put  his  tool  to  further  use.  We  remain  without  a  poetic  play. 

Thus  we  are  brought  to  reflect  whether  poetry  is  capable 
of  the  task  which  we  are  now  setting  her.  It  may  be  that  the 
emotions  here  sketched  in  such  rude  outline  and  imputed  to 

17 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

the  modern  mind  submit  more  readily  to  prose  than  to 
poetry.  It  may  be  possible  that  prose  is  going  to  take  over — 
has,  indeed,  already  taken  over: — some  of  the  duties  which 
were  once  discharged  by  poetry.  „ 

If,  then,  we  are  daring  and  risk  ridicule  and  try  to  see  in 
what  direction  we  who  seem  to  be  moving  so  fast  are  going, 
we  may  guess  that  we  are  going  in  the  direction  of  prose  and 
that  in  ten  or  fifteen  years'  time  prose  will  be  used  for  pur- 
poses for  which  prose  has  never  been  used  before.  That 
cannibal,  the  novel,  which  has  devoured  so  many  forms  of 
art  will  by  then  have  devoured  even  more.  We  shall  be 
forced  to  invent  new  names  for  the  different  books  which 
masquerade  under  this  one  heading.  And  it  is  possible  that 
there  will  be  among  the  so-called  novels  one  which  we  shall 
scarcely  know  how  to  christen.  It  will  be  written  in  prose, 
but  in  prose  which  has  many  of  the  characteristics  of  poetry. 
It  will  have  something  of  the  exaltation  of  poetry,  but  much 
of  the  ordinariness  of  prose.  It  will  be  dramatic,  and  yet  not 
a  play.  It  will  be  read,  not  acted.  By  what  name  we  are  to 
call  it  is  not  a  matter  of  very  great  importance.  What  is 
important  is  that  this  book  which  we  see  on  the  horizon  may 
serve  to  express  some  of  those  feelings  which  seem  at  the 
moment  to  be  balked  by  poetry  pure  and  simple  and  to  find 
the  drama  equally  inhospitable  to  them.  Let  us  try,  then,  to 
come  to  closer  terms  with  it  and  to  imagine  what  may  be  its 
scope  and  nature. 

In  the  first  place,  one  may  guess  that  it  will  differ  from  the 
novel  as  we  know  it  now  chiefly  in  that  it  will  stand  further 
back  from  life.  It  will  give,  as  poetry  does,  the  outline  rather 
than  the  detail.  It  will  make  little  use  of  the  marvellous 
fact-recording  power,  which  is  one  of  the  attributes  of  fiction. 
It  will  tell  us  very  little  about  the  houses,  incomes,  occupa- 
tions of  its  characters;  it  will  have  little  kinship  with  the 
sociological  novel  or  the  novel  of  environment.  With  these 
limitations  it  will  express  the  feeling  and  ideas  of  the  char- 
acters closely  and  vividly,  but  from  a  different  angle.  It  will 
resemble  poetry  in  this  that  it  will  give  not  only  or  mainly 
people's  relations  to  each  other  and  their  activities  together, 

18 


THE     NARROW    BRIDGE     OF    ART 

as  the  novel  has  hitherto  done,  but  it  will  give  the  relation  of 
the  mind  to  general  ideas  and  its  soliloquy  in  solitude.  For 
under  the  dominion  of  the  novel  we  have  scrutinized  one 
part  of  the  mind  closely  and  left  another  unexplored.  We 
have  come  to  forget  that  a  large  and  important  part  of  life 
consists  in  our  emotions  toward  such  things  as  roses  and 
nightingales,  the  dawn,  the  sunset,  life,  death,  and  fate;  we 
forget  that  we  spend  much  time  sleeping,  dreaming,  think- 
ing, reading,  alone;  we  are  not  entirely  occupied  in  personal 
relations;  all  our  energies  are  not  absorbed  in  making  our 
livings.  The  psychological  novelist  has  been  too  prone  to 
limit  psychology  to  the  psychology  of  personal  intercourse; 
we  long  sometimes  to  escape  from  the  incessant,  the  remorse- 
less analysis  of  falling  into  love  and  falling  out  of  love,  of 
what  Tom  feels  for  Judith  and  Judith  does  or  does  not  alto- 
gether feel  for  Tom.  We  long  for  some  more  impersonal 
relationship.  We  long  for  ideas,  for  dreams,  for  imaginations, 
for  poetry. 

And  it  is  one  of  the  glories  of  the  Elizabethan  dramatists 
that  they  give  us  this.  The  poet  is  always  able  to  transcend 
the  particularity  of  Hamlet's  relation  to  Ophelia  and  to  give 
us  his  questioning  not  of  his  own  personal  lot  alone  but  of  the 
state  and  being  of  all  human  life.  In  Measure  for  Measure,  for 
example,  passages  of  extreme  psychological  subtlety  are 
mingled  with  profound  reflections,  tremendous  imagina- 
tions. Yet  it  is  worth  noticing  that  if  Shakespeare  gives  us 
this  profundity,  this  psychology,  at  the  same  time  Shake- 
speare makes  no  attempt  to  give  us  certain  other  things. 
The  plays  are  of  no  use  whatever  as  'applied  sociology'.  If 
we  had  to  depend  upon  them  for  a  knowledge  of  the  social 
and  economic  conditions  of  Elizabethan  life,  we  should  be 
hopelessly  at  sea. 

In  these  respects  then  the  novel  or  the  variety  of  the  novel 
which  will  be  written  in  time  to  come  will  take  on  some  of 
the  attributes  of  poetry.  It  will  give  the  relations  of  man  to 
nature,  to  fate;  his  imagination;  his  dreams.  But  it  will  also 
give  the  sneer,  the  contrast,  the  question,  the  closeness  and 
complexity  of  life.  It  will  take  the  mould  of  that  queer  con- 

19 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

glomeration  of  incongruous  things — the  modern  mind. 
Therefore  it  will  clasp  to  its  breast  the  precious  prerogatives 
of  the  democratic  art  of  prose;  its  freedom,  its  fearlessness, 
its  flexibility.  For  prose  is  so  humble  that  it  can  go  anywhere; 
no  place  is  too  low,  too  sordid,  or  too  mean  for  it  to  enter.  It 
is  infinitely  patient,  too,  humbly  acquisitive.  It  can  lick  up 
with  its  long  glutinous  tongue  the  most  minute  fragments  of 
fact  and  mass  them  into  the  most  subtle  labyrinths,  and 
listen  silently  at  doors  behind  which  only  a  murmur,  only  a 
whisper,  is  to  be  heard.  With  all  the  suppleness  of  a  tool 
which  is  in  constant  use  it  can  follow  the  windings  and 
record  the  changes  which  are  typical  of  the  modern  mind. 
To  this,  with  Proust  and  Dostoevsky  behind  us,  we  must 
agree. 

But  can  prose,  we  may  ask,  adequate  though  it  is  to  deal 
with  the  common  and  the  complex — can  prose  say  the 
simple  things  which  are  so  tremendous?  Give  the  sudden 
emotions  which  are  so  surprising?  Can  it  chant  the  elegy,  or 
hymn  the  love,  or  shriek  in  terror,  or  praise  the  rose,  the 
nightingale,  or  the  beauty  of  the  night?  Can  it  leap  at  one 
spring  at  the  heart  of  its  subject  as  the  poet  does?  I  think  not. 
That  is  the  penalty  it  pays  for  having  dispensed  with  the 
incantation  and  the  mystery,  with  rhyme  and  metre.  It  is 
true  that  prose  writers  are  daring;  they  are  constantly  forc- 
ing their  instrument  to  make  the  attempt.  But  one  has  always 
a  feeling  of  discomfort  in  the  presence  of  the  purple  patch  or 
the  prose  poem.  The  objection  to  the  purple  patch,  how- 
ever, is  not  that  it  is  purple  but  that  it  is  a  patch.  Recall  for 
instance  Meredith's  'Diversion  on  a  Penny  Whistle'  in 
Richard  Feveral.  How  awkwardly,  how  emphatically,  with  a 
broken  poetic  metre  it  begins:  'Golden  lie  the  meadows; 
golden  run  the  streams;  red-gold  is  on  the  pine-stems.  The 
sun  is  coming  down  to  earth  and  walks  the  fields  and  the 
waters.'  Or  recall  the  famous  description  of  the  storm  at  the 
end  of  Charlotte  Bronte's  Villette.  These  passages  are  elo- 
quent, lyrical,  splendid;  they  read  very  well  cut  out  and 
stuck  in  an  anthology;  but  in  the  context  of  the  novel  they 
make  us  uncomfortable.  For  both  Meredith  and  Charlotte 

20 


THE    NARROW    BRIDGE    OF    ART 

Bronte  called  themselves  novelists;  they  stood  close  up  to 
life;  they  led  us  to  expect  the  rhythm,  the  observation,  and 
the  perspective  of  poetry.  We  feel  the  jerk  and  the  effort;  we 
are  half  woken  from  that  trance  of  consent  and  illusion  in 
which  our  submission  to  the  power  of  the  writer's  imagina- 
tion is  most  complete. 

But  let  us  now  consider  another  book,  which  though 
written  in  prose  and  by  way  of  being  called  a  novel,  adopts 
from  the  start  a  different  attitude,  a  different  rhythm,  which 
stands  back  from  life,  and  leads  us  to  expect  a  different 
perspective — Tristram  Shandy.  It  is  a  book  full  of  poetry,  but 
we  never  notice  it;  it  is  a  book  stained  deep  purple,  which  is 
yet  never  patchy.  Here  though  the  mood  is  changing  always, 
there  is  no  jerk,  no  jolt  in  that  change  to  waken  us  from  the 
depths  of  consent  and  belief.  In  the  same  breath  Sterne 
laughs,  sneers,  cuts  some  indecent  ribaldry,  and  passes  on  to 
a  passage  like  this: 

Time  wastes  too  fast:  every  letter  I  trace  tells  me  with 
what  rapidity  life  follows  my  pen;  the  days  and  hours  of  it 
more  precious — my  dear  Jenny — than  the  rubies  about 
thy  neck,  are  flying  over  our  heads  like  light  clouds  of  a 
windy  day,  never  to  return  more;  everything  presses  on 
— whilst  thou  are  twisting  that  lock — see!  it  grows  gray; 
and  every  time  I  kiss  thy  hand  to  bid  adieu,  and  every 
absence  which  follows  it,  are  preludes  to  that  eternal 
separation  which  we  are  shortly  to  make. — Heaven  have 
mercy  upon  us  both! 

CHAP.  IX 

Now,  for  what  the  world  thinks  of  that  ejaculation — I 
would  not  give  a  groat. 

And  he  goes  on  to  my  Uncle  Toby,  the  Corporal,  Mrs. 
Shandy,  and  the  rest  of  them. 

There,  one  sees,  is  poetry  changing  easily  and  naturally 
into  prose,  prose  into  poetry.  Standing  a  little  aloof,  Sterne 
lays  his  hands  lightly  upon  imagination,  wit,  fantasy;  and 
reaching  high  up  among  the  branches  where  these  things 
grow,  naturally  and  no  doubt  willingly  forfeits  his  right  to 
the  more  substantial  vegetables  that  grow  on  the  ground. 

21 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

For,  unfortunately,  it  seems  true  that  some  renunciation  is 
inevitable.  You  cannot  cross  the  narrow  bridge  of  art  carry- 
ing all  its  tools  in  your  hands.  Some  you  must  leave  behind, 
or  you  will  drop  them  in  midstream  or,  what  is  worse,  over- 
balance and  be  drowned  yourself. 

/  So,  then,  this  unnamed  variety  of  the  novel  will  be  written 

/standing  back  from  life,  because  in  that  way  a  larger  view  is 

f  to  be  obtained  of  some  important  features  of  it;  it  will  be 

^  written  in  prose,  because  prose,  if  you  free  it  from  the  beast- 

of-burden  work  which  so  many  novelists  necessarily  lay 

upon  it,  of  carrying  loads  of  details,  bushels  of  fact — prose 

thus  treated  will  show  itself  capable  of  rising  high  from  the 

ground,  not  in  one  dart,  but  in  sweeps  and  circles,  and  of 

keeping  at  the  same  time  in  touch  with  the  amusements  and 

idiosyncrasies  of  human  character  in  daily  life. 

There  remains,  however,  a  further  question.  Can  prose  be 
dramatic?  It  is  obvious,  of  course,  that  Shaw  and  Ibsen  have 
used  prose  dramatically  with  the  highest  success,  but  they 
have  been  faithful  to  the  dramatic  form.  This  form  one  may 
prophesy  is  not  the  one  which  the  poetic  dramatist  of  the 
future  will  find  fit  for  his  needs.  A  prose  play  is  too  rigid,  too 
limited,  too  emphatic  for  his  purposes.  It  lets  slip  between 
its  meshes  half  the  things  that  he  wants  to  say.  He  cannot 
compress  into  dialogue  all  the  comment,  all  the  analysis,  all 
the  richness  that  he  wants  to  give.  Yet  he  covets  the  explosive 
emotional  effect  of  the  drama;  he  wants  to  draw  blood  from 
his  readers,  and  not  merely  to  stroke  and  tickle  their  intellec- 
tual susceptibilities.  The  looseness  and  freedom  of  Tristram 
Shandy,  wonderfully  though  they  encircle  and  float  off  such 
characters  as  Uncle  Toby  and  Corporal  Trim,  do  not 
attempt  to  range  and  marshal  these  people  in  dramatic 
contrast  together.  Therefore  it  will  be  necessary  for  the 
writer  of  this  exacting  book  to  bring  to  bear  upon  his 
tumultuous  and  contradictory  emotions  the  generalizing 
and  simplifying  power  of  a  strict  and  logical  imagination. 
Tumult  is  vile;  confusion  is  hateful;  everything  in  a  work  of 
art  should  be  mastered  and  ordered.  His  effort  will  be  to 
generalize  and  split  up.  Instead  of  enumerating  details  he 

22 


THE    NARROW    BRIDGE     OF    ART 

will  mould  blocks.  His  characters  thus  will  have  a  dramatic 
power  which  the  minutely  realized  characters  of  contem- 
porary fiction  often  sacrifice  in  the  interests  of  psychology. 
And  then,  though  this  is  scarcely  visible,  so  far  distant  it  lies 
on  the  rim  of  the  horizon — one  can  imagine  that  he  will  have 
extended  the  scope  of  his  interest  so  as  to  dramatize  some  of 
those  influences  which  play  so  large  a  part  in  life,  yet  have 
so  far  escaped  the  novelist — the  power  of  music,  the  stimulus 
of  sight,  the  effect  on  us  of  the  shape  of  trees  or  the  play  of 
colour,  the  emotions  bred  in  us  by  crowds,  the  obscure 
terrors  and  hatreds  which  come  so  irrationally  in  certain 
places  or  from  certain  people,  the  delight  of  movement,  the 
intoxication  of  wine.  Every  moment  is  the  centre  and  meet- 
ing-place of  an  extraordinary  number  of  perceptions  which 
have  not  yet  been  expressed.  Life  is  always  and  inevitably 
much  richer  than  we  who  try  to  express  it. 

But  it  needs  no  great  gift  of  prophecy  to  be  certain  that 
whoever  attempts  to  do  what  is  outlined  above  will  have 
need  of  all  his  courage.  Prose  is  not  going  to  learn  a  new 
step  at  the  bidding  of  the  first  comer.  Yet  if  the  signs  of  the 
times  are  worth  anything  the  need  of  fresh  developments  is 
being  felt.  It  is  certain  that  there  are  scattered  about  in 
England,  France,  and  America  writers  who  are  trying  to 
work  themselves  free  from  a  bondage  which  has  become 
irksome  to  them;  writers  who  are  trying  to  readjust  their 
attitude  so  that  they  may  once  more  stand  easily  and  natur- 
ally in  a  position  where  their  powers  have  full  play  upon 
important  things.  And  it  is  when  a  book  strikes  us  as  the 
result  of  that  attitude  rather  than  by  its  beauty  or  its  bril- 
liancy that  we  know  that  it  has  in  it  the  seeds  of  an  enduring 
existence. 


/ 


23 


Hours  in  a  Library' 

1ET  us  begin  by  clearing  up  the  old  confusion  between 
J  the  man  who  loves  learning  and  the  man  who  loves 
reading,  and  point  out  that  there  is  no  connexion  whatever 
between  the  two.  A  learned  man  is  a  sedentary,  concentrated 
solitary  enthusiast,  who  searches  through  books  to  discover 
some  particular  grain  of  truth  upon  which  he  has  set  his 
heart.  If  the  passion  for  reading  conquers  him,  his  gains 
dwindle  and  vanish  between  his  fingers.  A  reader,  on  the 
other  hand,  must  check  the  desire  for  learning  at  the  out- 
set; if  knowledge  sticks  to  him  well  and  good,  but  to  go  in 
pursuit  of  it,  to  read  on  a  system,  to  become  a  specialist 
or  an  authority,  is  very  apt  to  kill  what  it  suits  us  to  con- 
sider the  more  humane  passion  for  pure  and  disinterested 
reading. 

In  spite  of  all  this  we  can  easily  conjure  up  a  picture 
which  does  service  for  the  bookish  man  and  raises  a  smile 
at  his  expense.  We  conceive  a  pale,  attenuated  figure  in  a 
dressing-gown,  lost  in  speculation,  unable  to  lift  a  kettle 
from  the  hob,  or  address  a  lady  without  blushing,  ignorant 
of  the  daily  news,  though  versed  in  the  catalogues  of  the 
second-hand  booksellers,  in  whose  dark  premises  he  spends 
the  hours  of  sunlight — a  delightful  character,  no  doubt,  in 
his  crabbed  simplicity,  but  not  in  the  least  resembling  that 
other  to  whom  we  would  direct  attention.  For  the  true 
reader  is  essentially  young.  He  is  a  man  of  intense  curiosity; 
of  ideas;  open  minded  and  communicative,  to  whom  reading 
is  more  of  the  nature  of  brisk  exercise  in  the  open  air  than  of 
sheltered  study;  he  trudges  the  high  road,  he  climbs  higher 
and  higher  upon  the  hills  until  the  atmosphere  is  almost 
too  fine  to  breathe  in;  to  him  it  is  not  a  sedentary  pursuit 
at  all. 

1   Times  Literary  Supplement,  November  30,  1 9 1 6. 
24 


HOURS    IN    A    LIBRARY 

But,  apart  from  general  statements,  it  would  not  be  hard 
to  prove  by  an  assembly  of  facts  that  the  great  season  for 
reading  is  the  season  between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and 
twenty-four.  The  bare  list  of  what  is  read  then  fills  the  heart 
of  older  people  with  despair.  It  is  not  only  that  we  read  so 
many  books,  but  that  we  had  such  books  to  read.  If  we  wish 
to  refresh  our  memories,  let  us  take  down  one  of  those  old 
notebooks  which  we  have  all,  at  one  time  or  another,  had  a 
passion  for  beginning.  Most  of  the  pages  are  blank,  it  is  true; 
but  at  the  beginning  we  shall  find  a  certain  number  very 
beautifully  covered  with  a  strikingly  legible  hand-writing. 
Here  we  have  written  down  the  names  of  great  writers  in 
their  order  of  merit;  here  we  have  copied  out  fine  passages 
from  the  classics;  here  are  lists  of  books  to  be  read;  and  here, 
most  interesting  of  all,  lists  of  books  that  have  actually  been 
read,  as  the  reader  testifies  with  some  youthful  vanity  by  a 
dash  of  red  ink.  We  will  quote  a  list  of  the  books  that  some 
one  read  in  a  past  January  at  the  age  of  twenty,  most  of 
them  probably  for  the  first  time.  i.  Rhoda  Fleming,  2.  The 
Shaving  of  Shagpat.  3.  Tom  Jones.  4.  The  Laodicean.  5.  Dewey's 
Psychology.  6.  The  Book  of  Job.  7.  Webbe's  Discourse  ofPoesie. 
8.  The  Duchess  of  Malfi.  9.  The  Revenger's  Tragedy.  And  so  he 
goes  on  from  month  to  month,  until,  as  such  lists  will,  it 
suddenly  stops  in  the  month  of  June.  But  if  we  follow  the 
reader  through  his  months  it  is  clear  that  he  can  have  done 
practically  nothing  but  read.  Elizabethan  literature  is  gone 
through  with  some  thoroughness;  he  read  a  great  deal  of 
Webster,  Browning,  Shelley,  Spenser,  and  Gongreve;  Pea- 
cock he  read  from  start  to  finish;  and  most  of  Jane  Austen's 
novels  two  or  three  times  over.  He  read  the  whole  of  Mere- 
dith, the  whole  of  Ibsen,  and  a  little  of  Bernard  Shaw.  We 
may  be  fairly  certain,  too,  that  the  time  not  spent  in  reading 
was  spent  in  some  stupendous  argument  in  which  the  Greeks 
were  pitted  against  the  moderns,  romance  against  realism, 
Racine  against  Shakespeare,  until  the  lights  were  seen  to 
have  grown  pale  in  the  dawn. 

The  old  lists  are  there  to  make  us  smile  and  perhaps  to 
sigh  a  little,  but  we  would  give  much  to  recall  also  the  mood 

25 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

in  which  this  orgy  of  reading  was  done.  Happily,  this  reader 
was  no  prodigy,  and  with  a  little  thought  we  can  most  of  us 
recall  the  stages  at  least  of  our  own  initiation.  The  books  we 
read  in  childhood,  having  purloined  them  from  some  shelf 
supposed  to  be  inaccessible,  have  something  of  the  unreality 
and  awfulness  of  a  stolen  sight  of  the  dawn  coming  over 
quiet  fields  when  the  household  is  asleep.  Peeping  between 
the  curtains  we  see  strange  shapes  of  misty  trees  which  we 
hardly  recognize,  though  we  may  remember  them  all  our 
lives;  for  children  have  a  strange  premonition  of  what  is  to 
come.  But  the  later  reading  of  which  the  above  list  is  an 
example  is  quite  a  different  matter.  For  the  first  time,  per- 
haps, all  restrictions  have  been  removed,  we  can  read  what 
we  like;  libraries  are  at  our  command,  and,  best  of  all, 
friends  who  find  themselves  in  the  same  position.  For  days 
upon  end  we  do  nothing  but  read.  It  is  a  time  of  extra- 
ordinary excitement  and  exaltation.  We  seem  to  rush  about 
recognizing  heroes.  There  is  a  sort  of  wonderment  in  our 
minds  that  we  ourselves  are  really  doing  this,  and  mixed 
with  it  an  absurd  arrogance  and  desire  to  show  our  familiar- 
ity with  the  greatest  human  beings  who  have  ever  lived  in 
the  world.  The  passion  for  knowledge  is  then  at  its  keenest, 
or  at  least  most  confident,  and  we  have,  too,  an  intense 
singleness  of  mind  which  the  great  writers  gratify  by  making 
it  appear  that  they  are  at  one  with  us  in  their  estimate  of 
what  is  good  in  life.  And  as  it  is  necessary  to  hold  one's  own 
against  some  one  who  has  adopted  Pope,  let  us  say,  instead 
of  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  for  a  hero,  we  conceive  a  deep 
affection  for  these  men,  and  feel  that  we  know  them  not  as 
other  people  know  them,  but  privately  by  ourselves.  We  are 
fighting  under  their  leadership,  and  almost  in  the  light  of 
their  eyes.  So  we  haunt  the  old  bookshops  and  drag  home 
folios  and  quartos,  Euripides  in  wooden  boards,  and  Vol- 
taire in  eighty-nine  volumes  octavo. 

But  these  lists  are  curious  documents,  in  that  they  seem  to 
include  scarcely  any  of  the  contemporary  writers.  Meredith 
and  Hardy  and  Henry  James  were  of  course  alive  when  this 
reader   came   to   them,   but   they  were   already   accepted 

26 

i 


HOURS    IN    A     LIBRARY 

among  the  classics.  There  is  no  man  of  his  own  generation 
who  influences  him  as  Carlyle,  or  Tennyson,  or  Ruskin 
influenced  the  young  of  their  day.  And  this  we  believe  to  be 
very  characteristic  of  youth,  for  unless  there  is  some  ad- 
mitted giant  he  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  smaller 
men,  although  they  deal  with  the  world  he  lives  in.  He  will 
rather  go  back  to  the  classics,  and  consort  entirely  with 
minds  of  the  very  first  order.  For  the  time  being  he  holds 
himself  aloof  from  all  the  activities  of  men,  and,  looking  at 
them  from  a  distance,  judges  them  with  superb  severity. 

Indeed,  one  of  the  signs  of  passing  youth  is  the  birth  of  a 
sense  of  fellowship  with  other  human  beings  as  we  take  our 
place  among  them.  We  should  like  to  think  that  we  keep 
our  standard  as  high  as  ever;  but  we  certainly  take  more 
interest  in  the  writings  of  our  contemporaries  and  pardon 
their  lack  of  inspiration  for  the  sake  of  something  that  brings 
them  nearer  to  us.  It  is  even  arguable  that  we  get  actually 
more  from  the  living,  although  they  may  be  much  inferior, 
than  from  the  dead.  In  the  first  place  there  can  be  no  secret 
vanity  in  reading  our  contemporaries,  and  the  kind  of 
admiration  which  they  inspire  is  extremely  warm  and 
genuine  because  in  order  to  give  way  to  our  belief  in  them 
we  have  often  to  sacrifice  some  very  respectable  prejudice 
which  does  us  credit.  We  have  also  to  find  our  own  reasons 
for  what  we  like  and  dislike,  which  acts  as  a  spur  to  our 
attention,  and  is  the  best  way  of  proving  that  we  have  read 
the  classics  with  understanding. 

Thus  to  stand  in  a  great  bookshop  crammed  with  books 
so  new  that  their  pages  almost  stick  together,  and  the  gilt  on 
their  backs  is  still  fresh,  has  an  excitement  no  less  delightful 
than  the  old  excitement  of  the  second-hand  bookstall.  It 
is  not  perhaps  so  exalted.  But  the  old  hunger  to  know  what 
the  immortals  thought  has  given  place  to  a  far  more  tolerant 
curiosity  to  know  what  our  own  generation  is  thinking. 
What  do  living  men  and  women  feel,  what  are  their  houses 
like  and  what  clothes  do  they  wear,  what  money  have  they 
and  what  food  do  they  eat,  what  do  they  love  and  hate,  what 
do  they  see  of  the  surrounding  world,  and  what  is  the  dream 

27 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

that  fills  the  spaces  of  their  active  lives?  They  tell  us  all  these 
things  in  their  books.  In  them  we  can  see  as  much  both  of  the 
mind  and  of  the  body  of  our  time  as  we  have  eyes  for  seeing. 
When  such  a  spirit  of  curiosity  has  fully  taken  hold  of  us, 
the  dust  will  soon  lie  thick  upon  the  classics  unless  some 
necessity  forces  us  to  read  them.  For  the  living  voices  are, 
after  all,  the  ones  we  understand  the  best.  We  can  treat  them 
as  we  treat  our  equals;  they  are  guessing  our  riddles,  and, 
what  is  perhaps  more  important,  we  understand  their  jokes. 
And  we  soon  develop  another  taste,  unsatisfied  by  the  great 
— not  a  valuable  taste,  perhaps,  but  certainly  a  very  pleasant 
possession — the  taste  for  bad  books.  Without  committing 
the  indiscretion  of  naming  names  we  know  which  authors 
can  be  trusted  to  produce  yearly  (for  happily  they  are 
prolific)  a  novel,  a  book  of  poems  or  essays,  which  affords  us 
indescribable  pleasure.  We  owe  a  great  deal  to  bad  books; 
indeed,  we  come  to  count  their  authors  and  their  heroes 
among  those  figures  who  play  so  large  a  part  in  our  silent 
life.  Something  of  the  same  sort  happens  in  the  case  of  the 
memoir  writers  and  autobiographers,  who  have  created 
almost  a  fresh  branch  of  literature  in  our  age.  They  are  not 
all  of  them  important  people,  but  strangely  enough,  only 
the  most  important,  the  dukes  and  the  statesmen,  are  ever 
really  dull.  The  men  and  women  who  set  out,  with  no 
excuse  except  perhaps  that  they  saw  the  Duke  of  Wellington 
once,  to  confide  to  us  their  opinions,  their  quarrels,  their 
aspirations,  and  their  diseases,  generally  end  by  becoming, 
for  the  time  at  least,  actors  in  those  private  dramas  with 
which  we  beguile  our  solitary  walks  and  our  sleepless  hours. 
Refine  all  this  out  of  our  consciousness  and  we  should  be 
poor  indeed.  And  then  there  are  the  books  of  facts  and 
history,  books  about  bees  and  wasps  and  industries  and  gold 
mines  and  Empresses  and  diplomatic  intrigues,  about  rivers 
and  savages,  trade  unions,  and  Acts  of  Parliament,  which  we 
always  read  and  always,  alas!  forget.  Perhaps  we  are  not 
making  out  a  good  case  for  a  bookshop  when  we  have  to 
confess  that  it  gratifies  so  many  desires  which  have  appar- 
ently nothing  to  do  with  literature.  But  let  us  remember 

28 


HOURS    IN    A    LIBRARY 

that  here  we  have  a  literature  in  the  making.  From  these 
new  books  our  children  will  select  the  one  or  two  by  which 
we  shall  be  known  for  ever.  Here,  if  we  could  recognize  it, 
lies  some  poem,  or  novel,  or  history  which  will  stand  up  and 
speak  with  other  ages  about  our  age  when  we  lie  prone  and 
silent  as  the  crowd  of  Shakespeare's  day  is  silent  and  lives 
for  us  only  in  the  pages  of  his  poetry. 

This  we  believe  to  be  true;  and  yet  it  is  oddly  difficult  in 
the  case  of  new  books  to  know  which  are  the  real  books  and 
what  it  is  that  they  are  telling  us,  and  which  are  the  stuffed 
books  which  will  come  to  pieces  when  they  have  lain  about 
for  a  year  or  two.  We  can  see  that  there  are  many  books,  and 
we  are  frequently  told  that  every  one  can  write  nowadays. 
That  may  be  true;  yet  we  do  not  doubt  that  at  the  heart  of 
this  immense  volubility,  this  flood  and  foam  of  language, 
this  irreticence  and  vulgarity  and  triviality,  there  lies  the 
heat  of  some  great  passion  which  only  needs  the  accident  of 
a  brain  more  happily  turned  than  the  rest  to  issue  in  a  shape 
which  will  last  from  age  to  age.  It  should  be  our  delight  to 
watch  this  turmoil,  to  do  battle  with  the  ideas  and  visions 
of  our  own  time,  to  seize  what  we  can  use,  to  kill  what  we 
consider  worthless,  and  above  all  to  realize  that  we  must  be 
generous  to  the  people  who  are  giving  shape  as  best  they 
can  to  the  ideas  within  them.  No  age  of  literature  is  so  little 
submissive  to  authority  as  ours,  so  free  from  the  dominion  of 
the  great;  none  seems  so  wayward  with  its  gift  of  reverence, 
or  so  volatile  in  its  experiments.  It  may  well  seem,  even  to 
the  attentive,  that  there  is  no  trace  of  school  or  aim  in  the 
work  of  our  poets  and  novelists.  But  the  pessimist  is  inevit- 
able, and  he  shall  not  persuade  us  that  our  literature  is  dead, 
or  prevent  us  from  feeling  how  true  and  vivid  a  beauty 
flashes  out  as  the  young  writers  draw  together  to  form  their 
new  vision,  the  ancient  words  of  the  most  beautiful  of  living 
languages.  Whatever  we  may  have  learnt  from  reading  the 
classics  we  need  now  in  order  to  judge  the  work  of  our  con- 
temporaries, for  whenever  there  is  life  in  them  they  will  be 
casting  their  net  out  over  some  unknown  abyss  to  snare  new 
shapes,  and  we  must  throw  our  imaginations  after  them  if 

29 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

we  are  to  accept  with  understanding  the  strange  gifts  they 
bring  back  to  us. 

But  if  we  need  all  our  knowledge  of  the  old  writers  in  order 
to  follow  what  the  new  writers  are  attempting,  it  is  certainly 
true  that  we  come  from  adventuring  among  new  books 
with  a  far  keener  eye  for  the  old.  It  seems  that  we  should 
now  be  able  to  surprise  their  secrets;  to  look  deep  down  into 
their  work  and  see  the  parts  come  together,  because  we  have 
watched  the  making  of  new  books,  and  with  eyes  clear  of 
prejudice  can  judge  more  truly  what  it  is  that  they  are 
doing,  and  what  is  good  and  what  bad.  We  shall  find, 
probably,  that  some  of  the  great  are  less  venerable  than  we 
thought  them.  Indeed,  they  are  not  so  accomplished  or  so 
profound  as  some  of  our  own  time.  But  if  in  one  or  two  cases 
this  seems  to  be  true,  a  kind  of  humiliation  mixed  with  joy 
overcomes  us  in  front  of  others.  Take  Shakespeare,  or 
Milton,  or  Sir  Thomas  Browne.  Our  little  knowledge  of 
how  things  are  done  does  not  avail  us  much  here,  but  it  does 
lend  an  added  zest  to  our  enjoyment.  Did  we  ever  in  our 
youngest  days  feel  such  amazement  at  their  achievement  as 
that  which  fills  us  now  that  we  have  sifted  myriads  of  words 
and  gone  along  uncharted  ways  in  search  of  new  forms  for 
our  new  sensations?  New  books  may  be  more  stimulating 
and  in  some  ways  more  suggestive  than  the  old,  but  they 
do  not  give  us  that  absolute  certainty  of  delight  which 
breathes  through  us  when  we  come  back  again  to  Comus,  or 
Lycidas,  Urn  Burial,  or  Antony  and  Cleopatra.  Far  be  it  from  us 
to  hazard  any  theory  as  to  the  nature  of  art.  It  may  be  that 
we  shall  never  know  more  about  it  than  we  know  by  nature, 
and  our  longer  experience  of  it  teaches  us  this  only — that  of 
all  our  pleasures  those  we  get  from  the  great  artists  are 
indisputably  among  the  best;  and  more  we  may  not  know. 
But,  advancing  no  theory,  we  shall  find  one  or  two  qualities 
in  such  works  as  these  which  we  can  hardly  expect  to  find  in 
books  made  within  the  span  of  our  lifetime.  Age  itself  may 
have  an  alchemy  of  its  own.  But  this  is  true:  you  can  read 
them  as  often  as  you  will  without  finding  that  they  have 
yielded  any  virtue  and  left  a  meaningless  husk  of  words;  and 

3° 


HOURS    IN    A     LIBRARY 

there  is  a  complete  finality  about  them.  No  cloud  of  sugges- 
tions hangs  about  them  teasing  us  with  a  multitude  of 
irrelevant  ideas.  But  all  our  faculties  are  summoned  to  the 
task,  as  in  the  great  moments  of  our  own  experience;  and 
some  consecration  descends  upon  us  from  their  hands  which 
we  return  to  life,  feeling  it  more  keenly  and  understanding 
it  more  deeply  than  before. 


Impassioned  Prose1 


WHEN  he  was  still  a  boy,  his  own  discrimination  led 
De  Quincey  to  doubt  whether  'his  natural  vocation 
lay  towards  poetry'.  He  wrote  poetry,  eloquently  and  pro- 
fusely, and  his  poetry  was  praised;  but  even  so  he  decided 
that  he  was  no  poet,  and  the  sixteen  volumes  of  his  collected 
works  are  written  entirely  in  prose.  After  the  fashion  of  his 
time,  he  wrote  on  many  subjects — on  political  economy,  on 
philosophy,  on  history;  he  wrote  essays  and  biographies  and 
confessions  and  memoirs.  But  as  we  stand  before  the  long 
row  of  his  books  and  make,  as  we  are  bound  to  make  after 
all  these  years,  our  own  selection,  the  whole  mass  and  range 
of  these  sixteen  volumes  seems  to  reduce  itself  to  one  sombre 
level  in  which  hang  a  few  splendid  stars.  He  dwells  in  our 
memory  because  he  could  make  phrases  like  'trepidations 
of  innumerable  fugitives',  because  he  could  compose  scenes 
like  that  of  the  laurelled  coach  driving  into  the  midnight 
market-place,  because  he  could  tell  stories  like  that  of 
the  phantom  woodcutter  heard  by  his  brother  on  the 
desert  island.  And,  if  we  examine  our  choice  and  give  a 
reason  for  it,  we  have  to  confess  that,  prose  writer  though 
he  is,  it  is  for  his  poetry  that  we  read  him  and  not  for  his 
prose. 

What  could  be  more  damaging,  to  him  as  writer,  to  us  as 
readers,  than  this  confession?  For  if  the  critics  agree  on  any 
point  it  is  on  this,  that  nothing  is  more  reprehensible  than 
for  a  prose  writer  to  write  like  a  poet.  Poetry  is  poetry  and 
prose  is  prose — how  often  have  we  not  heard  that!  Poetry 
has  one  mission  and  prose  another.  Prose,  Mr.  Binyon  wrote 
the  other  day,  'is  a  medium  primarily  addressed  to  the 
intelligence,  poetry  to  feeling  and  imagination'.  And  again, 
'  the  poetical  prose  has  but  a  bastard  kind  of  beauty,  easily 
1  Times  Literary  Supplement,  September  16,  1926. 
32 


IMPASSIONED     PROSE 

appearing  overdressed'.  It  is  impossible  not  to  admit,  in 
part  at  least,  the  truth  of  these  remarks.  Memory  supplies 
but  too  many  instances  of  discomfort,  of  anguish,  when  in 
the  midst  of  sober  prose  suddenly  the  temperature  rises,  the 
rhythm  changes,  we  go  up  with  a  lurch,  come  down  with  a 
bang,  and  wake,  roused  and  angry.  But  memory  supplies 
also  a  number  of  passages — in  Browne,  in  Landor,  in  Gar- 
lyle,  in  Ruskin,  in  Emily  Bronte — where  there  is  no  such 
jerk,  no  such  sense  (for  this  perhaps  is  at  the  root  of  our 
discomfort)  of  something  unfused,  unwrought,  incongruous, 
and  casting  ridicule  upon  the  rest.  The  prose  writer  has 
subdued  his  army  of  facts;  he  has  brought  them  all  under 
the  same  laws  of  perspective.  They  work  upon  our  minds  as 
poetry  works  upon  them.  We  are  not  woken;  we  reach  the 
next  point — and  it  may  well  be  highly  commonplace — 
without  any  sense  of  strain. 

But,  unfortunately  for  those  who  would  wish  to  see  a 
great  many  more  things  said  in  prose  than  are  now  thought 
proper,  we  live  under  the  rule  of  the  novelists.  If  we  talk  of 
prose  we  mean  in  fact  prose  fiction.  And  of  all  writers  the 
novelist  has  his  hands  fullest  of  facts.  Smith  gets  up,  shaves, 
has  his  breakfast,  taps  his  egg,  reads  The  Times.  How  can  we 
ask  the  panting,  the  perspiring,  the  industrious  scribe  with 
all  this  on  his  hands  to  modulate  beautifully  off  into  rhap- 
sodies about  Time  and  Death  and  what  the  hunters  are 
doing  at  the  Antipodes?  It  would  upset  the  whole  propor- 
tions  of  his  day.  It  would  cast  grave  doubt  upon  his  veracity. 
Moreover,  the  greatest  of  his  order  seem  deliberately  to 
prefer  a  method  which  is  the  antithesis  of  prose  poetry.  A 
shrug  of  the  shoulders,  a  turn  of  the  head,  a  few  words 
spoken  in  a  hurry  at  a  moment  of  crisis — that  is  all.  But  the 
train  has  been  laid  so  deep  beneath  page  after  page  and 
chapter  after  chapter  that  the  single  word  when  it  is  spoken 
is  enough  to  start  an  explosion.  We  have  so  lived  and  thought 
with  these  men  and  women  that  they  need  only  raise  a 
finger  and  it  seems  to  reach  the  skies.  To  elaborate  that 
gesture  would  be  to  spoil  it.  The  whole  tendency  therefore 
of  fiction  is  against  prose  poetry.  The  lesser  novelists  are  not 

33 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

going  to  take  risks  which  the  greater  deliberately  avoid. 
They  trust  that,  if  only  the  egg  is  real  and  the  kettle  boils, 
stars  and  nightingales  will  somehow  be  thrown  in  by  the 
imagination  of  the  reader.  And  therefore  all  that  side  of  the 
mind  which  is  exposed  in  solitude  they  ignore.  They  ignore 
its  thoughts,  its  rhapsodies,  its  dreams,  with  the  result  that 
the  people  of  fiction  bursting  with  energy  on  one  side  are 
atrophied  on  the  other;  while  prose  itself,  so  long  in  service 
to  this  drastic  master,  has  suffered  the  same  deformity,  and 
will  be  fit,  after  another  hundred  years  of  such  discipline,  to 
write  nothing  but  the  immortal  works  of  Bradshaw  and 
Baedeker. 

But  happily  there  are  in  every  age  some  writers  who 
puzzle  the  critics,  who  refuse  to  go  in  with  the  herd.  They 
stand  obstinately  across  the  boundary  lines,  and  do  a  greater 
service  by  enlarging  and  fertilizing  and  influencing  than  by 
their  actual  achievement,  which,  indeed,  is  often  too  eccen- 
tric to  be  satisfactory.  Browning  did  a  service  of  this  kind 
to  poetry.  Peacock  and  Samuel  Butler  have  both  had  an 
influence  upon  novelists  which  is  out  of  all  proportion  to 
their  own  popularity.  And  one  of  De  Quincey's  claims  to 
our  gratitude,  one  of  his  main  holds  upon  our  interest,  is 
that  he  was  an  exception  and  a  solitary.  He  made  a  class  for 
himself.  He  widened  the  choice  for  others.  Faced  with  the 
usual  problem  of  what  to  write,  since  write  he  must,  he 
decided  that  with  all  his  poetic  sensibility  he  was  not  a  poet. 
He  lacked  the  fire  and  the  concentration.  Nor,  again,  was 
he  a  novelist.  With  immense  powers  of  language  at  his 
command,  he  was  incapable  of  a  sustained  and  passionate 
interest  in  the  affairs  of  other  people.  It  was  his  disease,  he 
said,  'to  meditate  too  much  and  to  observe  too  little'.  He 
would  follow  a  poor  family  who  went  marketing  on  a  Satur- 
day night,  sympathetically,  but  at  a  distance.  He  was 
intimate  with  no  one.  Then,  again,  he  had  an  extraordinary 
gift  for  the  dead  languages,  and  a  passion  for  acquiring 
knowledge  of  all  kinds.  Yet  there  was  some  quality  in 
him  which  forbade  him  to  shut  himself  up  alone  with  his 
books,  as   such  gifts  seemed  to  indicate.  The  truth   was 

34 


IMPASSIONED    PROSE 

that  he  dreamed — he  was  always  dreaming.  The  faculty 
was  his  long  before  he  took  to  eating  opium.  When 
he  was  a  child  he  stood  by  his  sister's  dead  body  and 
suddenly 

a  vault  seemed  to  open  in  the  zenith  of  the  far  blue  sky,  a 
shaft  which  ran  up  for  ever.  I,  in  spirit,  rose  as  on  billows 
that  also  ran  up  the  shaft  for  ever;  and  the  billows  seemed 
to  pursue  the  throne  of  God;  but  that  also  ran  before  us 
and  fled  away  continually. 

The  visions  were  of  extreme  vividness;  they  made  life  seem 
a  little  dull  in  comparison;  they  extended  it,  they  completed 
it.  But  in  what  form  was  he  to  express  this  that  was  the  most 
real  part  of  his  own  existence?  There  was  none  ready  made 
to  his  hand.  He  invented,  as  he  claimed,  'modes  of  impas- 
sioned prose'.  With  immense  elaboration  and  art  he  formed 
a  style  in  which  to  express  these  'visionary  scenes  derived 
from  the  world  of  dreams'.  For  such  prose  there  were  no 
precedents,  he  believed ;  and  he  begged  the  reader  to  remem- 
ber '  the  perilous  difficulty '  of  an  attempt  where  '  a  single 
false  note,  a  single  word  in  a  wrong  key,  ruins  the  whole 
music'. 

Added  to  that  'perilous  difficulty'  was  another  which  is 
often  forced  upon  the  reader's  attention.  A  prose  writer  may 
dream  dreams  and  see  visions,  but  they  cannot  be  allowed  to 
lie  scattered,  single,  solitary  upon  the  page.  So  spaced  out 
they  die.  For  prose  has  neither  the  intensity  nor  the  self- 
sufficiency  of  poetry.  It  rises  slowly  off  the  ground;  it  must 
be  connected  on  this  side  and  on  that.  There  must  be  some 
medium  in  which  its  ardours  and  ecstasies  can  float  without 
incongruity,  from  which  they  receive  support  and  impetus. 
Here  was  a  difficulty  which  De  Quincey  often  faced  and 
often  failed  to  solve.  Many  of  his  most  tiresome  and  dis- 
figuring faults  are  the  result  of  the  dilemma  into  which  his 
genius  plunged  him.  There  was  something  in  the  story  before 
him  which  kindled  his  interest  and  quickened  his  powers. 
For  example,  the  Spanish  Military  Nun,  as  she  descends 
half  starved  and  frozen  from  the  Andes,  sees  before  her  a 
belt  of  trees  which  promises  safety.  As  if  De  Quincey  had 

35 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

himself  reached  that  shelter  and  could  breathe  in  safety,  he 

broadens  out — 

Oh!  verdure  of  dark  olive  foliage,  offered  suddenly  to 
fainting  eyes,  as  if  by  some  winged  patriarchal  herald  of 
wrath  relenting — solitary  Arab's  tent,  rising  with  saintly 
signals  of  peace  in  the  dreadful  desert,  must  Kate  indeed 
die  even  yet,  whilst  she  sees  but  cannot  reach  you?  Out- 
post on  the  frontier  of  man's  dominions,  standing  within 
life,  but  looking  out  upon  everlasting  death,  wilt  thou 
hold  up  the  anguish  of  thy  mocking  invitation  only  to 
betray? 

Alas,  how  easy  it  is  to  rise,  how  dangerous  to  fall!  He  has 
Kate  on  his  hands;  he  is  half-way  through  with  her  story; 
he  must  rouse  himself,  he  must  collect  himself,  he  must 
descend  from  these  happy  heights  to  the  levels  of  ordinary 
existence.  And,  again  and  again,  it  is  in  returning  to  earth 
that  De  Quincey  is  undone.  How  is  he  to  bridge  the  horrid 
transition?  How  is  he  to  turn  from  an  angel  with  wings  of 
flame  and  eyes  of  fire  to  a  gentleman  in  black  who  talks 
sense?  Sometimes  he  makes  a  joke — it  is  generally  painful. 
Sometimes  he  tells  a  story — it  is  always  irrelevant.  Most 
often  he  spreads  himself  out  in  a  waste  of  verbosity,  where 
any  interest  that  there  may  have  been  peters  out  dismally 
and  loses  itself  in  the  sand.  We  can  read  no  more. 

It  is  tempting  to  say  that  De  Quincey  failed  because  he 
was  not  a  novelist.  He  ought  to  have  left  Kate  alone;  he  had 
not  a  novelist's  sense  of  character  and  action.  To  a  critic 
such  formulas  are  helpful;  unfortunately,  they  are  often 
false.  For  in  fact,  De  Quincey  can  convey  character  admir- 
ably; he  is  a  master  of  the  art  of  narrative  once  he  has  suc- 
ceeded (and  the  condition  is  indispensable  for  all  writers)  in 
adjusting  the  perspective  to  suit  his  own  eyesight.  It  was  a 
sight,  it  is  true,  that  required  a  most  curious  rearrangement 
of  the  landscape.  Nothing  must  come  too  close.  A  veil  must 
be  drawn  over  the  multitudinous  disorder  of  human  affairs. 
It  must  always  be  possible,  without  distressing  the  reader,  to 
allude  to  a  girl  as  'a  prepossessing  young  female'.  A  mist 
must  lie  upon  the  human  face.  The  hills  must  be  higher  and 
the  distances  bluer  than  they  are  in  the  world  we  know.  He 

36 


IMPASSIONED     PROSE 

required,  too,  endless  leisure  and  ample  elbow-room.  He 
wanted  time  to  soliloquize  and  loiter;  here  to  pick  up  some 
trifle  and  bestow  upon  it  all  his  powers  of  analysis  and 
decoration;  here  to  brush  aside  such  patient  discrimination 
and  widen  and  enlarge  and  amplify  until  nothing  remains 
but  the  level  sands  and  the  immense  sea.  He  wanted  a 
subject  that  would  allow  him  all  possible  freedom  and  yet 
possess  enough  emotional  warmth  to  curb  his  inborn 
verbosity. 

He  found  it,  naturally,  in  himself.  He  was  a  born  auto- 
biographer.  If  the  Opium  Eater  remains  his  masterpiece,  a 
longer  and  less  perfect  book,  the  Autobiographic  Sketches,  runs 
it  very  close.  For  here  it  is  fitting  that  he  should  stand  a  little 
apart,  should  look  back,  under  cover  of  his  raised  hand,  at 
scenes  which  had  almost  melted  into  the  past.  His  enemy> 
the  hard  fact,  became  cloudlike  and  supple  under  his  hands. 
He  was  under  no  obligation  to  recite  'the  old  hackneyed 
roll-call,  chronologically  arranged,  of  inevitable  facts  in  a 
man's  life'.  It  was  his  object  to  record  impressions,  to  render 
states  of  mind  without  particularizing  the  features  of  the 
precise  person  who  had  experienced  them.  A  serene  and 
lovely  light  lies  over  the  whole  of  that  distant  prospect  of 
his  childhood.  The  house,  the  fields,  the  garden,  even  the 
neighbouring  town  of  Manchester,  all  seem  to  exist,  but 
far  away  on  some  island  separated  from  us  by  a  veil  of  blue. 
On  this  background,  where  no  detail  is  accurately  rendered, 
the  little  group  of  children  and  parents,  the  little  island  of 
home  and  garden,  are  all  distinctly  visible  and  yet  as  if  they 
moved  and  had  their  being  behind  a  veil.  Upon  the  opening 
chapters  rests  the  solemnity  of  a  splendid  summer's  day, 
whose  radiance,  long  since  sunk,  has  something  awful  in  it, 
in  whose  profound  stillness  sounds  strangely  reverberate — 
the  sounds  of  hooves  on  the  far-away  high  road,  the  sound 
of  words  like  'palm',  the  sound  of  that  'solemn  wind,  the 
saddest  that  ear  ever  heard',  which  was  for  ever  to  haunt 
the  mind  of  the  little  boy  who  now  heard  it  for  the  first 
time.  Nor,  so  long  as  he  keeps  within  the  circle  of  the  past,  is 
it  necessary  that  he  should  face  the  disagreeable  necessity  of 

37 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

waking.  About  the  reality  of  childhood  still  hung  some  of  the 
charm  of  illusion.  If  the  peace  is  broken,  it  is  by  an  appari- 
tion like  that  of  the  mad  dog  which  passes  and  pauses  with 
something  of  the  terror  of  a  dream.  If  he  needs  variety,  he 
finds  it  in  describing  with  a  whimsical  humour  perfectly 
suited  to  the  subject  the  raptures  and  miseries  of  childhood. 
He  mocks;  he  dilates;  he  makes  the  very  small  very  great; 
then  he  describes  the  war  with  the  mill  hands,  the  brothers' 
imaginary  kingdoms,  his  brother's  boast  that  he  could  walk 
upon  the  ceiling  like  a  fly,  with  admirable  particularity.  He 
can  rise  easily  and  fall  naturally  here.  Here  too,  given  his 
own  memories  to  work  upon,  he  can  exercise  his  extra- 
ordinary powers  of  description.  He  was  never  exact;  he  dis- 
liked glitter  and  emphasis;  he  sacrificed  the  showy  triumphs 
of  the  art;  but  he  had  to  perfection  the  gift  of  composition. 
Scenes  come  together  under  his  hands  like  congregations  of 
clouds  which  gently  join  and  slowly  disperse  or  hang 
solemnly  still.  So  displayed  before  us  we  see  the  coaches 
gathering  at  the  post  office  in  all  their  splendour;  the  lady 
in  the  carriage  to  whom  the  news  of  victory  brings  only 
sorrow;  the  couple  surprised  on  the  road  at  midnight  by  the 
thunder  of  the  mail  coach  and  the  threat  of  death;  Lamb 
asleep  in  his  chair;  Ann  disappearing  for  ever  into  the  dark 
London  night.  All  these  scenes  have  something  of  the  sound- 
lessness  and  the  lustre  of  dreams.  They  swim  up  to  the 
surface,  they  sink  down  again  into  the  depths.  They  have, 
into  the  bargain,  the  strange  power  of  growing  in  our  minds, 
so  that  it  is  always  a  surprise  to  come  upon  them  again  and 
see  what,  in  the  interval,  our  minds  have  done  to  alter  and 
expand. 

Meanwhile,  all  these  scenes  compose  an  autobiography  of 
a  kind,  but  of  a  kind  which  is  so  unusual  that  one  is  forced 
to  ask  what  one  has  learnt  from  it  about  De  Quincey  in  the 
end.  Of  facts,  scarcely  anything.  One  has  been  told  only 
what  De  Quincey  wished  us  to  know;  and  even  that  has 
been  chosen  for  the  sake  of  some  adventitious  quality — as 
that  it  fitted  in  here,  or  was  the  right  colour  to  go  there — 
never  for  its  truth.  But  nevertheless  there  grows  upon  us  a 

38 


IMPASSIONED     PROSE 

curious  sense  of  intimacy.  It  is  an  intimacy  with  the  mind, 
and  not  with  the  body;  yet  we  cannot  help  figuring  to  our- 
selves, as  the  rush  of  eloquence  flows,  the  fragile  little  body, 
the  fluttering  hands,  the  glowing  eyes,  the  alabaster  cheeks, 
the  glass  of  opium  on  the  table.  We  can  guess  that  no  one  so 
gifted  with  silver  speech,  so  prone  to  plunge  into  reverie  and 
awe,  held  his  own  imperturbably  among  his  fellows.  We  can 
guess  at  his  evasion  and  unpunctualities;  at  the  hordes  of  old 
papers  that  littered  his  room;  at  the  courtesy  which  excused 
his  inability  to  abide  by  the  ordinary  rules  of  life;  at  the 
overmastering  desire  that  possessed  him  to  wander  and 
dream  on  the  hills  alone;  at  the  seasons  of  gloom  and  irri- 
tability with  which  he  paid  for  that  exquisite  fineness  of  ear 
that  tuned  each  word  to  harmony  and  set  each  paragraph 
flowing  and  following  like  the  waves  of  the  sea.  All  this  we 
know  or  guess.  But  it  is  odd  to  reflect  how  little,  after  all,  we 
have  been  admitted  to  intimacy.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  he 
talks  of  confessions  and  calls  the  work  by  which  he  set  most 
store  Suspiria  de  Profundis,  he  is  always  self-possessed,  secre- 
tive, and  composed.  His  confession  is  not  that  he  has  sinned 
but  that  he  has  dreamed.  Hence  it  comes  about  that  his 
most  perfect  passages  are  not  lyrical  but  descriptive.  They 
are  not  cries  of  anguish  which  admit  us  to  closeness  and 
sympathy;  they  are  descriptions  of  states  of  mind  in  which, 
often,  time  is  miraculously  prolonged  and  space  miracu- 
lously expanded.  When  in  the  Suspiria  de  Profundis  he  tries  to 
rise  straight  from  the  ground  and  to  achieve  in  a  few  pages 
without  prelude  or  sequence  his  own  peculiar  effects  of 
majesty  and  distance,  his  force  is  not  sufficient  to  bear  him 
the  whole  distance.  There  juts  up  a  comment  upon  the  rules 
of  Eton,  a  note  to  remind  us  that  this  refers  to  the  tobacco 
States  of  North  America,  in  the  midst  of  '  Levana  and  Our 
Ladies  of  Sorrow',  which  puts  their  sweet- tongued  phrases 
sadly  out  of  countenance. 

But  if  he  was  not  a  lyric  writer,  he  was  undoubtedly  a 
descriptive  writer,  a  reflective  writer,  who  with  only  prose 
at  his  command — an  instrument  hedged  about  with  restric- 
tions, debased  by  a  thousand  common  uses — made  his  way 

39 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

into  precincts  which  are  terribly  difficult  to  approach.  The 
breakfast  table,  he  seems  to  say,  is  only  a  temporary  appari- 
tion which  we  can  think  into  non-existence,  or  invest  with 
such  associations  that  even  its  mahogany  legs  have  their 
charm.  To  sit  cheek  by  jowl  with  our  fellows  cramped  up 
together  is  distasteful,  indeed  repulsive.  But  draw  a  little 
apart,  see  people  in  groups,  as  outlines,  and  they  become  at 
once  memorable  and  full  of  beauty.  Then  it  is  not  the  actual 
sight  or  sound  itself  that  matters,  but  the  reverberations 
that  it  makes  as  it  travels  through  our  minds.  These  are  often 
to  be  found  far  away,  strangely  transformed;  but  it  is  only 
by  gathering  up  and  putting  together  these  echoes  and 
fragments  that  we  arrive  at  the  true  nature  of  our  experi- 
ence. So  thinking,  he  altered  slightly  the  ordinary  relation- 
ships. He  shifted  the  values  of  familiar  things.  And  this  he 
did  in  prose,  which  makes  us  wonder  whether,  then,  it  is 
quite  so  limited  as  the  critics  say,  and  ask  further  whether 
the  prose  writer,  the  novelist,  might  not  capture  fuller  and 
finer  truths  than  are  now  his  aim  if  he  ventured  into  those 
shadowy  regions  where  De  Quincey  has  been  before  him. 


40 


Life  and  the  Novelist1 

THE  novelist — it  is  his  distinction  and  his  danger — is 
terribly  exposed  to  life.  Other  artists,  partially  at  least, 
withdraw;  they  shut  themselves  up  for  weeks  alone  with  a 
dish  of  apples  and  a  paint-box,  or  a  roll  of  music  paper  and 
a  piano.  When  they  emerge  it  is  to  forget  and  distract  them- 
selves. But  the  novelist  never  forgets  and  is  seldom  distracted. 
He  fills  his  glass  and  lights  his  cigarette,  he  enjoys  presum- 
ably all  the  pleasures  of  talk  and  table,  but  always  with  a 
sense  that  he  is  being  stimulated  and  played  upon  by  the 
subject-matter  of  his  art.  Taste,  sound,  movement,  a  few 
words  here,  a  gesture  there,  a  man  coming  in,  a  woman 
going  out,  even  the  motor  that  passes  in  the  street  or  the 
beggar  who  shuffles  along  the  pavement,  and  all  the  reds 
and  blues  and  lights  and  shades  of  the  scene  claim  his  atten- 
tion and  rouse  his  curiosity.  He  can  no  more  cease  to  receive 
impressions  than  a  fish  in  mid-ocean  can  cease  to  let  the 
water  rush  through  his  gills. 

But  if  this  sensibility  is  one  of  the  conditions  of  the  novel- 
ist's life,  it  is  obvious  that  all  writers  whose  books  survive 
have  known  how  to  master  it  and  make  it  serve  their  pur- 
poses. They  have  finished  the  wine  and  paid  the  bill  and 
gone  off,  alone,  into  some  solitary  room  where,  with  toil 
and  pause,  in  agony  (like  Flaubert),  with  struggle  and  rush, 
tumultuously  (like  Dostoevsky)  they  have  mastered  their 
perceptions,  hardened  them,  and  changed  them  into  the 
fabrics  of  their  art. 

So  drastic  is  the  process  of  selection  that  in  its  final  state 
we  can  often  find  no  trace  of  the  actual  scene  upon  which 
the  chapter  was  based.  For  in  that  solitary  room,  whose 
door  the  critics  are  for  ever  trying  to  unlock,  processes  of 
the  strangest  kind  are  gone  through.  Life  is  subjected  to  a 
1  New  York  Herald  Tribune,  November  7,  1926. 
41 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

thousand  disciplines  and  exercises.  It  is  curbed;  it  is  killed. 
It  is  mixed  with  this,  stiffened  with  that,  brought  into  con- 
trast with  something  else;  so  that  when  we  get  our  scene  at 
a  cafe  a  year  later  the  surface  signs  by  which  we  remembered 
it  have  disappeared.  There  emerges  from  the  mist  something 
stark,  something  formidable  and  enduring,  the  bone  and 
substance  upon  which  our  rush  of  indiscriminating  emotion 
was  founded. 

Of  these  two  processes,  the  first — to  receive  impressions — 
is  undoubtedly  the  easier,  the  simpler,  and  the  pleasanter. 
And  it  is  quite  possible,  provided  one  is  gifted  with  a  suffi- 
ciently receptive  temperament  and  a  vocabulary  rich 
enough  to  meet  its  demands,  to  make  a  book  out  of  this 
preliminary  emotion  alone.  Three-quarters  of  the  novels 
that  appear  to-day  are  concocted  of  experience  to  which  no 
discipline,  except  the  mild  curb  of  grammer  and  the  occa- 
sional rigours  of  chapter  divisions,  has  been  applied.  Is 
Miss  Stern's  A  Deputy  Was  King  another  example  of  this 
class  of  writing,  has  she  taken  her  material  away  with 
her  into  solitude,  or  is  it  neither  one  nor  the  other,  but 
an  incongruous  mixture  of  soft  and  hard,  transient  and 
enduring? 

A  Deputy  Was  King  Continues  the  story  of  the  Rakonitz 
family  which  was  begun  some  years  ago  in  The  Matriarch.  It 
is  a  welcome  reappearance,  for  the  Rakonitz  family  is  a 
gifted  and  cosmopolitan  family  with  the  admirable  quality, 
so  rare  now  in  English  fiction,  of  belonging  to  no  particular 
sect.  No  parish  boundary  contains  them.  They  overflow  the 
continent.  They  are  to  be  found  in  Italy  and  Austria,  in 
Paris  and  Bohemia.  If  they  lodge  temporarily  in  some 
London  studio  they  are  not  condemning  themselves  thereby 
to  wear  forever  the  livery  of  Chelsea,  or  Bloomsbury,  or 
Kensington.  Abundantly  nourished  on  a  diet  of  rich  meats 
and  rare  wines,  expensively  but  exquisitely  clothed,  enviably 
though  inexplicably  flush  of  ready  money,  no  restraint  of 
class  or  convention  lies  upon  them,  if  we  except  the  year 
1 921;  it  is  essential  that  they  should  be  up  to  date.  They 
dance,  they  marry,  they  live  with  this  man  or  with  that; 

42 


LIFE    AND    THE    NOVELIST 

they  bask  in  the  Italian  sun;  they  swarm  in  and  out  of  each 
other's  houses  and  studios,  gossiping,  quarrelling,  making  it 
up  again.  For,  after  all,  besides  the  constraint  of  fashion, 
they  lie,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  under  the  bond  of 
family.  They  have  that  Jewish  tenacity  of  affection  which 
common  hardship  has  bred  in  an  outcast  race.  Hence,  in 
spite  of  their  surface  gregariousness,  they  are  fundamentally 
loyal  to  each  other  underneath.  Toni  and  Val  and  Loraine 
may  quarrel  and  tear  each  other  asunder  publicly,  but  in 
private  the  Rakonitz  women  are  indissolubly  united.  The 
present  instalment  of  the  family  history,  which,  though  it 
introduces  the  Goddards  and  relates  the  marriage  of  Toni 
and  Giles  Goddard,  is  really  the  history  of  a  family,  and  not 
of  an  episode,  pauses,  for  the  time  presumably,  in  an  Italian 
villa  provided  with  seventeen  bedrooms,  so  that  uncles, 
aunts,  cousins  can  all  come  to  lodge  there.  For  Toni  God- 
dard, with  all  her  fashion  and  modernity,  would  rather 
shelter  uncles  and  aunts  than  entertain  emperors,  and  a 
second  cousin  whom  she  has  not  seen  since  she  was  a  child 
is  a  prize  above  rubies. 

From  such  materials  surely  a  good  novel  might  be  made — 
that  is  what  one  catches  oneself  saying,  before  a  hundred 
pages  are  finished.  And  this  voice,  which  is  not  altogether 
our  own,  but  the  voice  of  that  dissentient  spirit  which  may 
split  off  and  take  a  line  of  its  own  as  we  read,  should  be 
cross-examined  instantly,  lest  its  hints  should  spoil  the 
pleasure  of  the  whole.  What,  then,  does  it  mean  by  insinuat- 
ing this  doubtful,  grudging  sentiment  in  the  midst  of  our 
general  well-being?  Hitherto  nothing  has  interfered  with  our 
enjoyment.  Short  of  being  a  Rakonitz  oneself,  of  actually 
taking  part  in  one  of  those  'diamonded  evenings',  dancing, 
drinking,  flirting  with  the  snow  upon  the  roof  and  the 
gramophone  braying  out  'It's  moonlight  in  Kalua',  short 
of  seeing  Betty  and  Colin  '  slightly  grotesque  advancing  .  .  . 
in  full  panoply;  velvet  spread  like  a  huge  inverted  cup  round 
Betty's  feet,  as  she  minced  over  the  pure,  sparkling  strip  of 
snow,  the  absurd  tangle  of  plumes  on  Colin's  helmet' — 
short  of  taking  hold  of  all  this  glitter  and  fantasy  with  one's 

43 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

own  fingers  and  thumbs,  what  is  better  than  Miss  Sterne's 
report  of  it? 

The  grudging  voice  will  concede  that  it  is  all  very  bril- 
liant; will  admit  that  a  hundred  pages  have  flashed  by  like 
a  hedge  seen  from  an  express  train;  but  will  reiterate  that 
for  all  that  something  is  wrong.  A  man  can  elope  with  a 
woman  without  our  noticing  it.  That  is  a  proof  that  there 
are  no  values.  There  is  no  shape  for  these  apparitions.  Scene 
melts  into  scene;  person  into  person.  People  rise  out  of  a  fog 
of  talk,  and  sink  back  into  talk  again.  They  are  soft  and 
shapeless  with  words.  There  is  no  grasping  them. 

The  charge  has  substance  in  it,  because  it  is  true,  when 
we  consider  it,  that  Giles  Goddard  can  run  off  with  Loraine, 
and  it  is  to  us  as  if  somebody  had  got  up  and  gone  out  of  the 
room — a  matter  of  no  importance.  We  have  been  letting 
ourselves  bask  in  appearances.  All  this  representation  of  the 
movement  of  life  has  sapped  our  imaginative  power.  We 
have  sat  receptive  and  watched,  with  our  eyes  rather  than 
with  our  minds,  as  we  do  at  the  cinema,  what  passes  on  the 
screen  in  front  of  us.  When  we  want  to  use  what  we  have 
learnt  about  one  of  the  characters  to  urge  them  through 
some  crisis  we  realize  that  we  have  no  steam  up;  no  energy 
at  our  disposal.  How  they  dressed,  what  they  ate,  the  slang 
they  used — we  know  all  that;  but  not  what  they  are.  For 
what  we  know  about  these  people  has  been  given  us  (with 
one  exception)  by  following  the  methods  of  life.  The  char- 
acters are  built  up  by  observing  the  incoherence,  the  fresh 
natural  sequences  of  a  person  who,  wishing  to  tell  the  story 
of  a  friend's  life  in  talk,  breaks  off  a  thousand  times  to  bring 
in  something  fresh,  to  add  something  forgotten,  so  that  in  the 
end,  though  one  may  feel  that  one  has  been  in  the  presence 
of  life,  the  particular  life  in  question  remains  vague.  This 
hand-to-mouth  method,  this  ladling  out  of  sentences  which 
have  the  dripping  brilliance  of  words  that  live  upon  real 
lips,  is  admirable  for  one  purpose,  disastrous  for  another.  All 
is  fluent  and  graphic;  but  no  character  or  situation  emerges 
cleanly.  Bits  of  extraneous  matter  are  left  sticking  to  the 
edges.    For   all    their   brilliancy   the   scenes    are    clouded; 

44 


LIFE    AND    THE    NOVELIST 

the  crises  are  blurred.  A  passage  of  description  will 
make  both  the  merit  and  the  defect  of  the  method  clear. 
Miss  Sterne  wants  us  to  realize  the  beauty  of  a  Chinese 
coat. 

Gazing  at  it,  you  might  think  you  had  never  seen  em- 
broidery before,  for  it  was  the  very  climax  of  all  that  was 
brilliant  and  exotic.  The  flower-petals  were  worked  in  a 
flaming  pattern  round  the  broad  bands  of  kingfisher  blue 
embroidery;  and  again  round  each  oval  plaque  that  was 
woven  of  a  silvery  heron  with  a  long  green  beak,  and 
behind  his  outstretched  wings  a  rainbow.  All  among  the 
silver  arabesques,  butterflies  were  delicately  poised,  golden 
butterflies  and  black  butterflies,  and  butterflies  that  were 
gold  and  black.  The  closer  you  looked  the  more  there  was 
to  see;  intricate  markings  on  the  butterfly  wings,  purple 
and  grass-green  and  apricot  .  .  . 

As  if  we  had  not  enough  to  see  already,  she  goes  on  to 
add  how  there  were  tiny  stamens  springing  from  every 
flower,  and  circles  ringing  the  eye  of  each  separate  stork, 
until  the  Chinese  coat  wobbles  before  our  eyes  and  merges 
in  one  brilliant  blur. 

The  same  method  applied  to  people  has  the  same  result. 
Quality  is  added  to  quality,  fact  to  fact,  until  we  cease  to 
discriminate  and  our  interest  is  suffocated  under  a  plethora 
of  words.  For  it  is  true  of  every  object — coat  or  human 
being — that  the  more  one  looks  the  more  there  is  to  see.  The 
writer's  task  is  to  take  one  thing  and  let  it  stand  for  twenty: 
a  task  of  danger  and  difficulty;  but  only  so  is  the  reader 
relieved  of  the  swarm  and  confusion  of  life  and  branded 
effectively  with  the  particular  aspect  which  the  writer  wishes 
him  to  see.  That  Miss  Sterne  has  other  tools  at  her  disposal, 
and  could  use  them  if  she  liked,  is  hinted  now  and  again, 
and  is  revealed  for  a  moment  in  the  brief  chapter  describing 
the  death  of  the  matriarch,  Anastasia  Rakonitz.  Here  sud- 
denly the  flow  of  words  seems  to  darken  and  thicken.  We  are 
aware  of  something  beneath  the  surface,  something  left 
unsaid  for  us  to  find  out  for  ourselves  and  think  over.  The 
two  pages  in  which  we  are  told  how  the  old  woman  died 
asking  for  gooseliver  sausage  and  a  tortoise-shell  comb,  short 

45 


ra 
e< 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

though  they  are,  hold,  to  my  thinking,  twice  the  substance 
of  any  other  thirty  pages  in  the  book. 

These  remarks  bring  me  back  to  the  question  with  which 
I  started:  the  relation  of  the  novelist  to  life  and  what  it 
should  be.  That  he  is  terribly  exposed  to  life  A  Deputy  Was 
King  proves  once  more.  He  can  sit  and  watch  life  and  make 
his  book  out  of  the  very  foam  and  effervescence  of  his  emo- 
tions; or  he  can  put  his  glass  down,  retire  to  his  room  and 
subject  his  trophy  to  those  mysterious  processes  by  which 
life  becomes,  like  the  Chinese  coat,  able  to  stand  by  itself — 
a  sort  of  impersonal  miracle.  But  in  either  case  he  is  faced 
by  a  problem  which  does  not  afflict  the  workers  in  any  other 
rts  to  the  same  extent.  Stridently,  clamorously,  life  is  for- 
ever pleading  that  she  is  the  proper  end  of  fiction  and  that 
the  more  he  sees  of  her  and  catches  of  her  the  better  his  book 
will  be.  She  does  not  add,  however,  that  she  is  grossly  im- 
pure; and  that  the  side  she  flaunts  uppermost  is  often,  for 
the  novelist,  of  no  value  whatever.  Appearance  and  move- 
ment are  the  lures  she  trails  to  entice  him  after  her,  as  if 
these  were  her  essence,  and  by  catching  them  he  gained  his 
goal.  So  believing,  he  rushes  feverishly  in  her  wake,  ascer- 
tains what  fox-trot  is  being  played  at  the  Embassy,  what 
skirt  is  being  worn  in  Bond  Street,  worms  and  winds  his  way 
into  the  last  flings  of  topical  slang,  and  imitates  to  perfection 
the  last  toss  of  colloquial  jargon.  He  becomes  terrified  more 
than  anything  of  falling  behind  the  times:  his  chief  concern 
is  that  the  thing  described  shall  be  fresh  from  the  shell  with 
the  down  on  its  head. 

This  kind  of  work  requires  great  dexterity  and  nimble- 
ness,  and  gratifies  a  real  desire.  To  know  the  outside  of  one's 
age,  its  dresses  and  its  dances  and  its  catchwords,  has  an 
interest  and  even  a  value  which  the  spiritual  adventures  of  a 
curate,  or  the  aspirations  of  a  high-minded  schoolmistress, 
solemn  as  they  are,  for  the  most  part  lack.  It  might  well 
be  claimed,  too,  that  to  deal  with  the  crowded  dance  of 
modern  life  so  as  to  produce  the  illusion  of  reality  needs  far 
higher  literary  skill  than  to  write  a  serious  essay  upon  the 
poetry  of  John  Donne  or  the  novels  of  M.   Proust.  The 

46 


LIFE     AND     THE     NOVELIST 

novelist,  then,  who  is  a  slave  to  life  and  concocts  his  books 
out  of  the  froth  of  the  moment  is  doing  something  difficult, 
something  which  pleases,  something  which,  if  you  have  a 
mind  that  way,  may  even  instruct.  But  his  work  passes  as 
the  year  1921  passes,  as  fox-trots  pass,  and  in  three  years' 
time  looks  as  dowdy  and  dull  as  any  other  fashion  which  has 
served  its  turn  and  gone  its  way. 

On  the  other  hand,  to  retire  to  one's  study  in  fear  of  life 
is  equally  fatal.  It  is  true  that  plausible  imitations  of  Addison, 
say,  can  be  manufactured  in  the  quiet  there,  but  they  are  as 
brittle  as  plaster  and  as  insipid.  To  survive,  each  sentence 
must  have,  at  its  heart,  a  little  spark  of  fire,  and  this,  what- 
ever the  risk,  the  novelist  must  pluck  with  his  own  hands 
from  the  blaze.  His  state  then  is  a  precarious  one.  He  must 
expose  himself  to  life;  he  must  risk  the  danger  of  being  led 
away  and  tricked  by  her  deceitfulness;  he  must  seize  her 
treasure  from  her  and  let  her  trash  run  to  waste.  But  at  a 
certain  moment  he  must  leave  the  company  and  withdraw, 
alone,  to  that  mysterious  room  where  his  body  is  hardened 
and  fashioned  into  permanence  by  processes  which,  if  they 
elude  the  critic,  hold  for  him  so  profound  a  fascination. 


47 


On  Rereading  Meredith1 

THIS  new  study  2  of  Meredith  is  not  a  text-book  to  be 
held  in  one  hand  while  in  the  other  you  hold  The 
Shaving  of  Shagpat  or  Modern  Love;  it  is  addressed  to  those 
who  have  so  far  solved  the  difficulties  of  the  Master  that 
they  wish  to  make  up  their  minds  as  to  his  final  position  in 
English  literature.  The  book  should  do  much  to  crystallize 
opinion  upon  Meredith,  if  only  because  it  will  induce  many 
people  to  read  him  again.  For  Mr.  Crees  has  written  in  a 
spirit  of  enthusiasm  which  makes  it  easy  to  do  so.  He  sum- 
mons Diana  and  Willoughby  Patterne  and  Richard  Feverel 
from  the  shelves  where  they  have  fallen  a  little  silent  lately 
and  in  a  moment  the  air  is  full  of  high-pitched,  resonant 
voices,  speaking  the  unmistakable  language  of  metaphor, 
epigram,  and  fantastic  poetic  dialogue.  Some  readers,  to 
judge  from  our  own  case,  will  feel  a  momentary  qualm,  as 
at  meeting  after  the  lapse  of  years  some  hero  so  ardently 
admired  once  that  his  eccentricities  and  foibles  are  now 
scarcely  tolerable;  they  seem  to  preserve  too  well  the  faults 
of  our  own  youth.  Further,  in  the  presence  of  so  faithful  an 
admirer  as  Mr.  Crees  we  may  be  reminded  of  some  inter- 
vening disloyalties.  It  was  not  Thackeray  or  Dickens  or 
George  Eliot  who  seriously  tempted  us  from  our  allegiance; 
but  can  we  say  the  same  of  the  great  Russians?  Oddly 
enough,  when  Mr.  Crees  is  taking  Meredith's  measure  by 
comparing  him  with  his  contemporaries  he  makes  no  men- 
tion of  Turgenev,  Tolstoy,  or  Dostoevsky.  But  it  was  Fathers 
and  Sons,  War  and  Peace,  Crime  and  Punishment  that  seduced 
multitudes  of  the  faithful  and,  worse  still,  seemed  for  the 
time  to  reduce  Meredith  to  an  insular  hero  bred  and  cher- 
ished for  the  delight  of  connoisseurs  in  some  sheltered  corner 
of  a  Victorian  hothouse. 

1    Times  Literary  Supplement,  July  25,  1918. 
2  George  Meredith:  A  Study  of  his  Works  and  Personality,  by  J.  H.  E.  Crees. 

48 


ON     REREADING     MEREDITH 

The  Russians  might  well  overcome  us,  for  they  seemed  to 
possess  an  entirely  new  conception  of  the  novel  and  one  that 
was  larger,  saner,  and  much  more  profound  than  ours.  It 
was  one  that  allowed  human  life  in  all  its  width  and  depth, 
with  every  shade  of  feeling  and  subtlety  of  thought,  to  flow 
into  their  pages  without  the  distortion  of  personal  eccen- 
tricity or  mannerism.  Life  was  too  serious  to  be  juggled  with. 
It  was  too  important  to  be  manipulated.  Could  any  English 
novel  survive  in  the  furnace  of  that  overpowering  sincerity? 
For  some  time  the  verdict  seemed  to  go  tacitly  against 
Meredith.  His  fine  phrases,  his  perpetual  imagery,  the 
superabundant  individuality  which  so  much  resembled  an 
overweening  egotism  seemed  to  be  the  very  stuff  to  perish  in 
that  uncompromising  flame.  Perhaps  some  of  us  went  as  far 
as  to  believe  that  the  process  had  already  been  accomplished 
and  that  it  was  useless  to  open  books  in  which  you  would 
find  nothing  but  charred  bones  and  masses  of  contorted 
wire.  The  poems,  Modern  Love,  Love  in  the  Valley,  and  some  of 
the  shorter  pieces  survived  the  ordeal  more  successfully  and 
did  perhaps  keep  alive  that  latent  enthusiasm  upon  which 
Mr.  Crees  now  blows  with  the  highest  praise  that  it  is 
possible  to  bestow  upon  literature.  He  does  not  scruple  to 
compare  Meredith  with  Shakespeare.  Shakespeare  alone, 
he  says,  could  have  written  the  'Diversion  Played  upon  a 
Penny  Whistle'  in  Richard  Feverel.  Meredith  'illustrates 
better  than  any  since  Shakespeare  that  impetuous  mental 
energy  which  Matthew  Arnold  deemed  the  source  of  our 
literary  greatness'.  One  might  even  infer  from  some  state- 
ments that  Meredith  was  the  undisputed  equal  of  the 
greatest  of  poets.  'No  man  has  ever  been  endowed  with 
richer  gifts.'  He  was  the  possessor  of 'in  some  ways  the  most 
consummate  intellect  that  has  ever  been  devoted  to  litera- 
ture'. These,  moreover,  are  not  the  irresponsible  flings  of  a 
momentary  enthusiasm  but  the  considered  opinion  of  a  man 
who  writes  with  ability  and  critical  insight  and  has  reached 
his  superlatives  by  intelligible  degrees  of  appreciation. 
We  should  perhaps  alter  his  scale  by  putting  Donne  in  the 
place  of  Shakespeare;  but  however  we  may  regulate  our 

49 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

superlatives  he  creates  the  right  mood  for  reading  Meredith 
again. 

The  right  mood  for  reading  Meredith  should  have  a  large 
proportion  of  enthusiasm  in  it,  for  Meredith  aims  at,  and 
when  he  is  successful  has  his  dwelling  in,  the  very  heart  of 
the  emotions.  There,  indeed,  we  have  one  of  the  chief 
differences  between  him  and  the  Russians.  They  accumu- 
late; they  accept  ugliness;  they  seek  to  understand;  they 
penetrate  further  and  further  into  the  human  soul  with  their 
terrible  power  of  sustained  insight  and  their  undeviating 
reverence  for  truth.  But  Meredith  takes  truth  by  storm;  he 
takes  it  with  a  phrase,  and  his  best  phrases  are  not  mere 
phrases  but  are  compact  of  many  different  observations, 
fused  into  one  and  flashed  out  in  a  line  of  brilliant  light.  It  is 
by  such  phrases  that  we  get  to  know  his  characters.  They 
come  to  mind  at  once  in  thinking  of  them.  Sir  Willoughby 
'has  a  leg'.  Clara  Middleton  'carries  youth  like  a  flag'. 
Vernon  Whitford  is  '  Phoebus  Apollo  turned  fasting  Friar ' ; 
every  one  who  has  read  the  novels  holds  a  store  of  such 
phrases  in  his  memory.  But  the  same  process  is  applied  not 
only  to  single  characters  but  to  large  and  complicated 
situations  where  a  number  of  different  states  of  mind  are 
represented.  Here,  too,  he  wishes  to  crush  the  truth  out  in  a 
series  of  metaphors  or  a  string  of  epigrams  with  as  little 
resort  to  dull  fact  as  may  be.  Then,  indeed,  the  effort  is  pro- 
digious, and  the  confusion  often  chaotic.  But  the  failure 
arises  from  the  enormous  scope  of  his  ambition.  Let  us 
suppose  that  he  has  to  describe  a  tea  party;  he  will  begin  by 
destroying  everything  by  which  it  is  easy  to  recognize  a  tea 
party — chairs,  tables,  cups,  and  the  rest;  he  will  represent 
the  scene  merely  by  a  ring  on  a  finger  and  a  plume  passing 
the  window.  But  into  the  ring  and  plume  he  puts  such  pas- 
sion and  character  and  such  penetrating  rays  of  vision  play 
about  the  denuded  room  that  we  seem  to  be  in  possession  of 
all  the  details  as  if  a  painstaking  realist  had  described  each 
one  of  them  separately.  To  have  produced  this  effect  as  often 
as  Meredith  has  done  so  is  an  enormous  feat.  That  is  the 
way,  as  one  trusts  at  such  moments,  that  the  art  of  fiction 

50 


ON    REREADING    MEREDITH 

will  develop.  For  such  beauty  and  such  high  emotional 
excitement  it  is  well  worth  while  to  exchange  the  solidity 
which  is  the  result  of  knowing  the  day  of  the  week,  how  the 
ladies  are  dressed,  and  by  what  series  of  credible  events  the 
great  crisis  was  accomplished.  But  the  doubt  will  suggest 
itself  whether  we  are  not  sacrificing  something  of  greater 
importance  than  mere  solidity.  We  have  gained  moments  of 
astonishing  intensity;  we  have  gained  a  high  level  of  sus- 
tained beauty;  but  perhaps  the  beauty  is  lacking  in  some 
quality  that  makes  it  a  satisfying  beauty?  'My  love',  Mere- 
dith wrote,  'is  for  epical  subjects — nor  for  cobwebs  in  a 
putrid  corner,  though  I  know  the  fascination  of  unravelling 
them.'  He  avoids  ugliness  as  he  avoids  dullness.  'Sheer 
realism',  he  wrote,  'is  at  best  the  breeder  of  the  dungfly.' 
Sheer  romance  breeds  an  insect  more  diaphanous,  but  it 
tends  perhaps  to  be  even  more  heartless  than  the  dungfly. 
A  touch  of  realism — or  is  it  a  touch  of  something  more  akin 
to  sympathy?— would  have  kept  the  Meredith  hero  from 
being  the  honourable  but  tedious  gentleman  that,  with 
deference  to  Mr.  Crees,  we  have  always  found  him.  It  would 
have  charged  the  high  mountain  air  of  his  books  with  the 
greater  variety  of  clouds. 

But,  for  good  or  for  ill,  Meredith  has  the  habit  of  noble- 
ness ingrained  in  him.  No  modern  writer,  for  example,  has 
so  completely  ignored  the  colloquial  turns  of  speech  and 
cast  his  dialogue  in  sentences  that  could  without  impro- 
priety have  been  spoken  by  Queen  Elizabeth  in  person. 
'Out  of  my  sight,  I  say!'  'I  went  to  him  of  my  own  will  to 
run  from  your  heartlessness,  mother — that  I  call  mother!' 
are  two  examples  found  upon  turning  two  pages  of  The 
Tragic  Comedians.  That  is  his  natural  pitch,  although  we  may 
guess  that  the  long  indifference  of  the  public  increased  his 
tendency  to  the  strained  and  the  artificial.  For  this,  among 
other  reasons,  it  is  easy  to  complain  that  his  world  is  an 
aristocratic  world,  strictly  bounded,  thinly  populated,  a 
little  hard-hearted,  and  not  to  be  entered  by  the  poor,  the 
vulgar,  the  stupid,  or  that  very  common  and  interesting 
individual  who  is  a  mixture  of  all  three. 

5" 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

And  yet  there  can  be  no  doubt  that,  even  judged  by  his 
novels  alone,  Meredith  remains  a  great  writer.  The  doubt 
is  rather  whether  he  can  be  called  a  great  novelist;  whether, 
indeed,  anyone  to  whom  the  technique  of  novel  writing  had 
so  much  that  was  repulsive  in  it  can  excel  compared  with 
those  who  are  writing,  not  against  the  grain,  but  with  it.  He 
struggles  to  escape,  and  the  chapters  of  amazing  but  fruitless 
energy  which  he  produces  in  his  struggle  to  escape  are  the 
true  obstacles  to  the  enjoyment  of  Meredith.  What,  we  ask, 
is  he  struggling  against?  What  is  he  striving  for?  Was  he, 
perhaps,  a  dramatist  born  out  of  due  time — an  Elizabethan 
sometimes,  and  sometimes,  as  the  last  chapters  of  The  Egoist 
suggest,  a  dramatist  of  the  Restoration?  Like  a  dramatist,  he 
flouts  probability,  disdains  coherency,  and  lives  from  one 
high  moment  to  the  next.  His  dialogue  often  seems  to  crave 
the  relief  of  blank  verse.  And  for  all  his  analytic  industry  in 
the  dissection  of  character,  he  creates  not  the  living  men  and 
women  who  justify  modern  fiction,  but  superb  conceptions 
who  have  more  of  the  general  than  of  the 'particular  in  them. 
There  is  a  large  and  beautiful  conception  of  womanhood  in 
Diana  rather  than  a  single  woman;  there  is  the  fervour  of 
romantic  love  in  Richard  Feverel,  but  the  faces  of  the  lovers 
are  dim  in  the  rosy  light.  In  this  lies  both  the  strength  and 
the  weakness  of  his  books,  but,  if  the  weakness  is  at  all  of  the 
kind  we  have  indicated,  the  strength  is  of  a  nature  to  coun- 
terbalance it.  His  English  power  of  imagination,  with  its 
immense  audacity  and  fertility,  his  superb  mastery  of  the 
great  emotions  of  courage  and  love,  his  power  of  summoning 
nature  into  sympathy  with  man  and  of  merging  him  in  her 
vastness,  his  glory  in  all  fine  living  and  thinking — these  are 
the  qualities  that  give  his  conceptions  their  size  and  univer- 
sality. In  these  respects  we  must  recognize  his  true  descent 
from  the  greatest  of  English  writers  and  his  enjoyment  of 
qualities  that  are  expressed  nowhere  save  in  the  master- 
pieces of  our  literature. 


52 


The  Anatomy  of  Fiction ' 

SOMETIMES  at  country  fairs  you  may  have  seen  a  pro- 
fessor on  a  platform  exhorting  the  peasants  to  come  up 
and  buy  his  wonder-working  pills.  Whatever  their  disease, 
whether  of  body  or  mind,  he  has  a  name  for  it  and  a  cure; 
and  if  they  hang  back  in  doubt  he  whips  out  a  diagram  and 
points  with  a  stick  at  different  parts  of  the  human  anatomy, 
and  gabbles  so  quickly  such  long  Latin  words  that  first  one 
shyly  stumbles  forward  and  then  another,  and  takes  his 
bolus  and  carries  it  away  and  unwraps  it  secretly  and  swal- 
lows it  in  hope.  '  The  young  aspirant  to  the  art  of  fiction 
who  knows  himself  to  be  an  incipient  realist',  Mr.  Hamilton 
vociferates  from  his  platform,2  and  the  incipient  realists 
advance  and  receive — for  the  professor  is  generous — five 
pills  together  with  nine  suggestions  for  home  treatment.  In 
other  words  they  are  given  five  '  review  questions '  to  answer, 
and  are  advised  to  read  nine  books  or  parts  of  books.  '  i . 
Define  the  difference  between  realism  and  romance.  2.  What 
are  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  realistic  method? 
3.  What  are  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  roman- 
tic method?' — that  is  the  kind  of  thing  they  work  out  at 
home,  and  with  such  success  that  a  'revised  and  enlarged 
edition'  of  the  book  has  been  issued  on  the  tenth  anniversary 
of  the  first  publication.  In  America,  evidently,  Mr.  Hamilton 
is  considered  a  very  good  professor,  and  has  no  doubt  a 
bundle  of  testimonials  to  the  miraculous  nature  of  his  cures. 
But  let  us  consider:  Mr.  Hamilton  is  not  a  professor;  we  are 
not  credulous  ploughboys;  and  fiction  is  not  a  disease. 

In  England  we  have  been  in  the  habit  of  saying  that 
fiction  is  an  art.  We  are  not  taught  to  write  novels;  dissua- 

1  The  Athenaeum,  May  16,  191 9. 

2  Materials  and  Methods  of  Fiction,   by  Clayton   Hamilton.   With   an 
Introduction  by  Brander  Matthews. 

53 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

sion  is  our  most  usual  incentive;  and  though  perhaps  the 
critics  have  '  deduced  and  formulated  the  general  principles 
of  the  art  of  fiction',  they  have  done  their  work  as  a  good 
housemaid  does  hers;  they  have  tidied  up  after  the  party  is 
over.  Criticism  seldom  or  never  applies  to  the  problems  of 
the  present  moment.  On  the  other  hand,  any  good  novelist, 
whether  he  be  dead  or  alive,  has  something  to  say  about 
them,  though  it  is  said  very  indirectly,  differently  to  different 
people,  and  differently  at  different  stages  of  the  same  per- 
son's development.  Thus,  if  anything  is  essential,  it  is  essen- 
tial to  do  your  reading  with  your  own  eyes.  But,  to  tell  the 
truth,  Mr.  Hamilton  has  sickened  us  of  the  didactic  style. 
Nothing  appears  to  be  essential  save  perhaps  an  elementary 
knowledge  of  the  A.B.G.,  and  it  is  pleasant  to  remember  that 
Henry  James,  when  he  took  to  dictation,  dispensed  even 
with  that.  Still,  if  you  have  a  natural  taste  for  books  it  is 
probable  that  after  reading  Emma,  to  take  an  instance,  some 
reflections  upon  the  art  of  Jane  Austen  may  occur  to  you — 
how  exquisitely  one  incident  relieves  another;  how  definitely, 
by  not  saying  something,  she  says  it;  how  surprising,  there- 
fore, her  expressive  phrases  when  they  come.  Between  the 
sentences,  apart  from  the  story,  a  little  shape  of  some  kind 
builds  itself  up.  But  learning  from  books  is  a  capricious 
business  at  best,  and  the  teaching  so  vague  and  changeable 
that  in  the  end,  far  from  calling  books  either  'romantic'  or 
'realistic',  you  will  be  more  inclined  to  think  them,  as  you 
think  people,  very  mixed,  very  distinct,  very  unlike  one 
another.  But  this  would  never  do  for  Mr.  Hamilton.  Accord- 
ing to  him  every  work  of  art  can  be  taken  to  pieces,  and 
those  pieces  can  be  named  and  numbered,  divided  and  sub- 
divided, and  given  their  order  of  precedence,  like  the  internal 
organs  of  a  frog.  Thus  we  learn  how  to  put  them  together 
again — that  is,  according  to  Mr.  Hamilton,  we  learn  how 
to  write.  There  is  the  complication,  the  major  knot,  and  the 
explication;  the  inductive  and  the  deductive  methods;  the 
kinetic  and  the  static;  the  direct  and  the  indirect  with  sub- 
divisions of  the  same;  connotation,  annotation,  personal 
equation,   and  denotation;   logical  sequence  and  chrono- 

54 


THE    ANATOMY     OF    FICTION 

logical  succession — all  parts  of  the  frog  and  all  capable  of 
further  dissection.  Take  the  case  of 'emphasis'  alone.  There 
are  eleven  kinds  of  emphasis.  Emphasis  by  terminal  position, 
by  initial  position,  by  pause,  by  direct  proportion,  by  in- 
verse proportion,  by  iteration,  by  antithesis,  by  surprise,  by 
suspense — are  you  tired  already?  But  consider  the  Americans. 
They  have  written  one  story  eleven  times  over,  with  a 
different  kind  of  emphasis  in  each.  Indeed,  Mr.  Hamilton's 
book  teaches  us  a  great  deal  about  the  Americans. 

Still,  as  Mr.  Hamilton  uneasily  perceives  now  and  then, 
you  may  dissect  your  frog,  but  you  cannot  make  it  hop; 
there  is,  unfortunately,  such  a  thing  as  life.  Directions  for 
imparting  life  to  fiction  are  given,  such  as  to  '  train  yourself 
rigorously  never  to  be  bored',  and  to  cultivate  'a  lively 
curiosity  and  a  ready  sympathy'.  But  it  is  evident  that  Mr. 
Hamilton  does  not  like  life,  and,  with  such  a  tidy  museum 
as  his,  who  can  blame  him?  He  has  found  life  very  trouble- 
some, and,  if  you  come  to  consider  it,  rather  unnecessary; 
for,  after  all,  there  are  books.  But  Mr.  Hamilton's  views  on 
life  are  so  illuminating  that  they  must  be  given  in  his  own 
words: 

Perhaps  in  the  actual  world  we  should  never  bother  to 
converse  with  illiterate  provincial  people;  and  yet  we  do 
not  feel  it  a  waste  of  time  and  energy  to  meet  them  in  the 
pages  of  Middle-march.  For  my  own  part,  I  have  always,  in 
actual  life,  avoided  meeting  the  sort  of  people  that  appear 
in  Thackeray's  Vanity  Fair;  and  yet  I  find  it  not  only 
interesting  but  profitable  to  associate  with  them  through 
the  entire  extent  of  a  rather  lengthy  novel. 

' Illiterate  provincial  people' — 'interesting  but  profitable' 
— '  waste  of  time  and  energy ' — now  after  much  wandering 
and  painful  toil  we  are  on  the  right  track  at  last.  For  long 
it  seemed  that  nothing  could  reward  the  American  people 
for  having  written  eleven  themes  upon  the  eleven  kinds  of 
emphasis.  But  now  we  perceive  dimly  that  there  is  something 
to  be  gained  by  the  daily  flagellation  of  the  exhausted  brain. 
It  is  not  a  title;  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  pleasure  or  with 
literature;  but  it  appears  that  Mr.  Hamilton  and  his  indus- 

55 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

trious  band  see  far  off  upon  the  horizon  a  circle  of  superior 
enlightenment  to  which,  if  only  they  can  keep  on  reading 
long  enough,  they  may  attain.  Every  book  demolished  is  a 
milestone  passed.  Books  in  foreign  languages  count  twice 
over.  And  a  book  like  this  is  of  the  nature  of  a  dissertation  to 
be  sent  up  to  the  supreme  examiner,  who  may  be,  for  any- 
thing we  know,  the  ghost  of  Matthew  Arnold.  Will  Mr. 
Hamilton  be  admitted?  Can  they  have  the  heart  to  reject 
anyone  so  ardent,  so  dusty,  so  worthy,  so  out  of  breath? 
Alas!  look  at  his  quotations;  consider  his  comments  upon 
them: 

'The  murmuring  of  innumerable  bees.'  .  .  .  The  word 
innumerable,  which  denotes  to  the  intellect  merely  'in- 
capable of  being  numbered,'  is,  in  this  connection,  made 
to  suggest  to  the  senses  the  murmuring  of  bees. 

The  credulous  ploughboy  could  have  told  him  more  than 
that.  It  is  not  necessary  to  quote  what  he  says  about  '  magic 
casements'  and  the  'iniquity  of  oblivion'.  Is  there  not,  upon 
page  208,  a  definition  of  style? 

No;  Mr.  Hamilton  will  never  be  admitted;  he  and  his 
disciples  must  toil  for  ever  in  the  desert  sand,  and  the  circle 
of  illumination  will,  we  fear,  grow  fainter  and  farther  upon 
their  horizon.  It  is  curious  to  find,  after  writing  the  above 
sentence,  how  little  one  is  ashamed  of  being,  where  literature 
is  concerned,  an  unmitigated  snob. 


56 


Gothic  Romance1 

IT  says  much  for  Miss  Birkhead's  2  natural  good  sense  that 
she  has  been  able  to  keep  her  head  where  many  people 
would  have  lost  theirs.  She  has  read  a  great  many  books 
without  being  suffocated.  She  has  analysed  a  great  many 
plots  without  being  nauseated.  Her  sense  of  literature  has 
not  been  extinguished  by  the  waste-paper  baskets  full  of  old 
novels  so  courageously  heaped  on  top  of  it.  For  her  'attempt 
to  trace  in  outline  the  origin  of  the  Gothic  romance  and  the 
tale  of  terror'  has  necessarily  led  her  to  grope  in  basements 
and  attics  where  the  light  is  dim  and  the  dust  is  thick.  To 
trace  the  course  of  one  strand  in  the  thick  skein  of  our 
literature  is  well  worth  doing.  But  perhaps  Miss  Birkhead 
would  have  increased  the  interest  of  her  work  if  she  had 
enlarged  her  scope  to  include  some  critical  discussion  of  the 
aesthetic  value  of  shock  and  terror,  and  had  ventured  some 
analysis  of  the  taste  which  demands  this  particular  stimulus. 
But  her  narrative  is  quite  readable  enough  to  supply  the 
student  with  material  for  pushing  the  enquiry  a  little  further. 
Since  it  is  held  that  Gothic  romance  was  introduced  by 
Horace  Walpole's  Castle  o/Otranto,  in  the  year  1764,  there  is 
no  need  to  confound  it  with  the  romance  of  Spenser  or  of 
Shakespeare.  It  is  a  parasite,  an  artificial  commodity,  pro- 
duced half  in  joke  in  reaction  against  the  current  style,  or  in 
relief  from  it.  If  we  run  over  the  names  of  the  most  famous 
of  the  Gothic  romancers — Clara  Reeve,  Mrs.  Radcliffe, 
Monk  Lewis,  Charles  Maturin,  Sarah  Wilkinson — we  shall 
smile  at  the  absurdity  of  the  visions  which  they  conjure  up. 
We  shall,  perhaps,  congratulate  ourselves  upon  our  improve- 
ment. Yet  since  our  ancestors  bought  two  thousand  copies  of 
Mrs.  Bennett's  Beggar  Girl  and  her  Benefactors,  on  the  day  of 

1    Times  Literary  Supplement,  May  5,  1 92 1 . 
2   The  Tale  of  Terror:  A  Study  of  the  Gothic  Romance,  by  Edith  Birkhead. 

57 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

publication,  at  a  cost  of  thirty-six  shillings  for  the  seven 
volumes,  there  must  have  been  something  in  the  trash  that 
was  appetizing,  or  something  in  the  appetites  that  was 
coarse.  It  is  only  polite  to  give  our  ancestors  the  benefit  of 
the  doubt.  Let  us  try  to  put  ourselves  in  their  places.  The 
books  that  formed  part  of  the  ordinary  library  in  the  year 
1 764  were,  presumably,  Johnson's  Vanity  of  Human  Wishes, 
Gray's  Poems,  Richardson's  Clarissa,  Addison's  Cato,  Pope's 
Essay  on  Man.  No  one  could  wish  for  a  more  distinguished 
company.  At  the  same  time,  as  literary  critics  are  too  little 
aware,  a  love  of  literature  is  often  roused  and  for  the  first 
years  nourished  not  by  the  good  books,  but  by  the  bad.  It 
will  be  an  ill  day  when  all  the  reading  is  done  in  libraries 
and  none  of  it  in  tubes.  In  the  eighteenth  century  there  must 
have  been  a  very  large  public  which  found  no  delight  in  the 
peculiar  literary  merits  of  the  age;  and  if  we  reflect  how  long 
the  days  were  and  how  empty  of  distraction,  we  need  not  be 
surprised  to  find  a  school  of  writers  grown  up  in  flat  defiance 
of  the  prevailing  masters.  Horace  Walpole,  Clara  Reeve, 
and  Mrs.  Radcliffe  all  turned  their  backs  upon  their  time 
and  plunged  into  the  delightful  obscurity  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  which  were  so  much  richer  than  the  eighteenth  century 
in  castles,  barons,  moats,  and  murders. 

What  Horace  Walpole  began  half  in  fun  was  continued 
seriously  and  with  considerable  power  by  Mrs.  Radcliffe. 
That  she  had  a  conscience  in  the  matter  is  evident  from  the 
pains  she  is  at  to  explain  her  mysteries  when  they  have  done 
their  work.  The  human  body  'decayed  and  disfigured  by 
worms,  which  were  visible  in  the  features  and  hands',  turns 
out  to  be  a  waxen  image  credibly  placed  there  in  fulfilment 
of  a  vow.  But  there  is  little  wonder  that  a  novelist  perpetually 
on  the  stretch  first  to  invent  mysteries  and  then  to  explain 
them  had  no  leisure  for  the  refinements  of  the  art.  '  Mrs. 
Radcliffe's  heroines',  says  Miss  Birkhead,  'resemble  nothing 
more  than  a  composite  photograph  in  which  all  distinctive 
traits  are  merged  into  an  expressionless  type.'  The  same 
fault  can  be  found  with  most  books  of  sensation  and  adven- 
ture, and  is,  after  all,  inherent  in  the  subject;  for  it  is  un- 

58 


GOTHIC    ROMANCE 

likely  that  a  lady  confronted  by  a  male  body  stark  naked, 
wreathed  in  worms,  where  she  had  looked,  maybe,  for  a 
pleasant  landscape  in  oils,  should  do  more  than  give  a  loud 
cry  and  drop  senseless.  And  women  who  give  loud  cries  and 
drop  senseless  do  it  in  much  the  same  way.  That  is  one  of  the 
reasons  why  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  write  a  tale  of  terror 
which  continues  to  shock  and  does  not  first  become  insipid 
and  later  ridiculous.  Even  Miss  Wilkinson,  who  wrote  that 
'Adeline  Barnett  was  fair  as  a  lily,  tall  as  the  pine,  her  fine 
dark  eyes  sparkling  as  diamonds,  and  she  moved  with  the 
majestic  air  of  a  goddess',  had  to  ridicule  her  own  favourite 
style  before  she  had  done.  Scott,  Jane  Austen,  and  Peacock 
stooped  from  their  heights  to  laugh  at  the  absurdity  of  the 
convention  and  drove  it,  at  any  rate,  to  take  refuge  under- 
ground. For  it  flourished  subterraneously  all  through  the 
nineteenth  century,  and  for  sixpence  you  can  buy  to-day  at 
the  bookstall  the  recognizable  descendant  of  the  Mysteries  of 
Udolpho.  Nor  is  Adeline  Barnett  by  any  means  defunct.  She 
is  probably  an  earl's  daughter  at  the  present  moment; 
vicious,  painted;  in  society.  But  if  you  call  her  Miss  Wilkin- 
son's Adeline  she  will  have  to  answer  none  the  less. 

It  would  be  a  fine  exercise  in  discrimination  to  decide  the 
precise  point  at  which  romance  becomes  Gothic  and  imagi- 
nation moonshine.  Coleridge's  lines  in  Kubla  Khan  about  the 
woman  wailing  for  her  demon  lover  are  a  perfect  example 
of  the  successful  use  of  emotion.  The  difficulty,  as  Miss  Birk- 
head  shows,  is  to  know  where  to  stop.  Humour  is  com- 
paratively easy  to  control;  psychology  is  too  toilsome  to  be 
frequently  overdone;  but  a  gift  for  romance  easily  escapes 
control  and  cruelly  plunges  its  possessor  into  disrepute. 
Maturin  and  Monk  Lewis  heaped  up  horrors  until  Mrs. 
Radcliffe  herself  appeared  calm  and  composed.  And  they 
have  paid  the  penalty.  The  skull-headed  lady,  the  vampire 
gentleman,  the  whole  troop  of  monks  and  monsters  who 
once  froze  and  terrified  now  gibber  in  some  dark  cupboard 
of  the  servants'  hall.  In  our  day  we  flatter  ourselves  the 
effect  is  produced  by  subtler  means.  It  is  at  the  ghosts 
within  us  that  we  shudder,  and  not  at  the  decaying  bodies  of 

59 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

barons  or  the  subterranean  activities  of  ghouls.  Yet  the  desire 
to  widen  our  boundaries,  to  feel  excitement  without  danger, 
and  to  escape  as  far  as  possible  from  the  facts  of  life  drive  us 
perpetually  to  trifle  with  the  risky  ingredients  of  the  mys- 
terious and  the  unknown.  Science,  as  Miss  Birkhead  sug- 
gests, will  modify  the  Gothic  romance  of  the  future  with  the 
aeroplane  and  the  telephone.  Already  the  bolder  of  our 
novelists  have  made  use  of  psycho-analysis  to  startle  and 
dismay.  And  already  such  perils  attend  the  use  of  the 
abnormal  in  fiction — the  younger  generation  has  been 
heard  to  complain  that  the  horror  of  the  Turn  of  the  Screw  is 
altogether  too  tame  and  conventional  to  lift  a  hair  of  their 
heads.  But  can  we  possibly  say  that  Henry  James  was  a 
Goth? 


60 


The  Supernatural  in  Fiction1 

WHEN  Miss  Scarborough  2  describes  the  results  of  her 
inquiries  into  the  supernatural  in  fiction  as  'sugges- 
tive rather  than  exhaustive '  we  have  only  to  add  that  in  any 
discussion  of  the  supernatural  suggestion  is  perhaps  more 
useful  than  an  attempt  at  science.  To  mass  together  all  sorts 
of  cases  of  the  supernatural  in  literature  without  much  more 
system  or  theory  than  the  indication  of  dates  supplies  leaves 
the  reader  free  where  freedom  has  a  special  value.  Perhaps 
some  psychological  law  lies  hidden  beneath  the  hundreds  of 
stories  about  ghosts  and  abnormal  states  of  mind  (for  stories 
about  abnormal  states  of  mind  are  included  with  those  that 
are  strictly  supernatural)  which  are  referred  to  in  her  pages; 
but  in  our  twilight  state  it  is  better  to  guess  than  to  assert, 
to  feel  than  to  classify  our  feelings.  So  much  evidence  of  the 
delight  which  human  nature  takes  in  stories  of  the  super- 
natural will  inevitably  lead  one  to  ask  what  this  interest 
implies  both  in  the  writer  and  in  the  reader. 

In  the  first  place,  how  are  we  to  account  for  the  strange 
human  craving  for  the  pleasure  of  feeling  afraid  which  is  so 
much  involved  in  our  love  of  ghost  stories?  It  is  pleasant 
to  be  afraid  when  we  are  conscious  that  we  are  in  no  kind 
of  danger,  and  it  is  even  more  pleasant  to  be  assured  of 
the  mind's  capacity  to  penetrate  those  barriers  which  for 
twenty-three  hours  out  of  the  twenty-four  remain  impas- 
sable. Crude  fear,  with  its  anticipation  of  physical  pain  or 
of  terrifying  uproar,  is  an  undignified  and  demoralizing 
sensation,  while  the  mastery  of  fear  only  produces  a  respect- 
able mask  of  courage,  which  is  of  no  great  interest  to  our- 
selves, although  it  may  impose  upon  others.  But  the  fear 
which  we  get  from  reading  ghost  stories  of  the  supernatural 
is  a  refined  and  spiritualized  essence  of  fear.  It  is  a  fear 

1    Times  Literary  Supplement,  January  31,  191 8. 
1   The  Supernatural  in  Modern  English  Fiction,  by  Dorothy  Scarborough. 

6l 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

which  we  can  examine  and  play  with.  Fur  from  despising 
ourselves  for  being  frightened  by  a  ghost  story  we  are  proud 
of  this  proof  of  sensibility,  and  perhaps  unconsciously  wel- 
come the  chance  for  the  licit  gratification  of  certain  instincts 
which  we  are  wont  to  treat  as  outlaws.  It  is  worth  noticing 
that  the  craving  for  the  supernatural  in  literature  coincided 
in  the  eighteenth  century  with  a  period  of  rationalism  in 
thought,  as  if  the,  effect  of  damming  the  human  instincts  at 
one  point  causes  them  to  overflow  at  another.  Such  instincts 
were  certainly  at  full  flood  when  the  writings  of  Mrs.  Rad- 
cliffe  were  their  chosen  channel.  Her  ghosts  and  ruins  have 
long  suffered  the  fate  which  so  swiftly  waits  upon  any  exag- 
geration of  the  supernatural  and  substitutes  our  ridicule  for 
our  awe.  But  although  we  are  quick  to  throw  away  imagina- 
tive symbols  which  have  served  our  turn,  the  desire  persists. 
Mrs.  Radcliffe  may  vanish,  but  the  craving  for  the  super- 
natural survives.  Some  element  of  the  supernatural  is  so 
constant  in  poetry  that  one  has  come  to  look  upon  it  as  part 
of  the  normal  fabric  of  the  art;  but  in  poetry,  being  ethereal- 
ized,  it  scarcely  provokes  any  emotion  so  gross  as  fear. 
Nobody  was  ever  afraid  to  walk  down  a  dark  passage  after 
reading  The  Ancient  Mariner,  but  rather  inclined  to  venture 
out  to  meet  whatever  ghosts  might  deign  to  visit  him.  Prob- 
ably some  degree  of  reality  is  necessary  in  order  to  produce 
fear;  and  reality  is  best  conveyed  by  prose.  Certainly  one  of 
the  finest  ghost  stories,  Wandering  Willie's  Tale  in  Red- 
gauntlet,  gains  immensely  from  the  homely  truth  of  the 
setting,  to  which  the  use  of  the  Scotch  dialect  contributes. 
The  hero  is  a  real  man,  the  country  is  as  solid  as  can  be;  and 
suddenly  in  the  midst  of  the  green  and  gray  landscape  opens 
up  the  crimson  transparency  of  Redgauntlet  Castle  with  the 
dead  sinners  at  their  feasting. 

The  superb  genius  of  Scott  here  achieves  a  triumph  which 
should  keep  this  story  immortal  however  the  fashion  in  the 
supernatural  may  change.  Steenie  Steenson  is  himself  so 
real  and  his  belief  in  the  phantoms  is  so  vivid  that  we  draw 
our  fear  through  our  perception  of  his  fear,  the  story  itself 
being  of  a  kind  that  has  ceased  to  frighten  us.  In  fact,  the 

62 


THE    SUPERNATURAL    IN    FICTION 

vision  of  the  dead  carousing  would  now  be  treated  in  a 
humorous,  romantic  or  perhaps  patriotic  spirit,  but  scarcely 
with  any  hope  of  making  our  flesh  creep.  To  do  that  the 
author  must  change  his  direction;  he  must  seek  to  terrify 
us  not  by  the  ghosts  of  the  dead,  but  by  those  ghosts  which 
are  living  within  ourselves.  The  great  increase  of  the  psy- 
chical ghost  story  in  late  years,  to  which  Miss  Scarborough 
bears  witness,  testifies  to  the  fact  that  our  sense  of  our  own 
ghostliness  has  much  quickened.  A  rational  age  is  succeeded 
by  one  which  seeks  the  supernatural  in  the  soul  of  man,  and 
the  development  of  psychical  research  offers  a  basis  of  dis- 
puted fact  for  this  desire  to  feed  upon.  Henry  James,  indeed, 
was  of  opinion  before  writing  The  Turn  of  the  Screw  that  '  the 
good,  the  really  effective  and  heart-shaking  ghost  stories 
(roughly  so  to  term  them)  appeared  all  to  have  been  told. 
.  .  .  The  new  type,  indeed,  the  mere  modern  "psychical 
case",  washed  clean  of  all  queerness  as  by  exposure  to  a 
flowing  laboratory  tap,  .  .  .  the  new  type  clearly  promised 
little.'  Since  The  Turn  of  the  Screw,  however,  and  no  doubt 
largely  owing  to  that  masterpiece,  the  new  type  has  justified 
its  existence  by  rousing,  if  not  'the  dear  old  sacred  terror', 
still  a  very  effective  modern  representative.  If  you  wish  to 
guess  what  our  ancestors  felt  when  they  read  The  Mysteries  of 
Udolpho  you  cannot  do  better  than  read  The  Turn  of  the  Screw. 
Experiment  proves  that  the  new  fear  resembles  the  old  in 
producing  physical  sensations  as  of  erect  hair,  dilated  pupils, 
rigid  muscles,  and  an  intensified  perception  of  sound  and 
movement.  But  what  is  it  that  we  are  afraid  of?  We  are  not 
afraid  of  ruins,  or  moonlight,  or  ghosts.  Indeed,  we  should 
be  relieved  to  find  that  Quint  and  Miss  Jessel  are  ghosts,  but 
they  have  neither  the  substance  nor  the  independent  exist- 
ence of  ghosts.  The  odious  creatures  are  much  closer  to  us 
than  ghosts  have  ever  been.  The  governess  is  not  so  much 
frightened  of  them  as  of  the  sudden  extension  of  her  own 
field  of  perception,  which  in  this  case  widens  to  reveal  to  her 
the  presence  all  about  her  of  an  unmentionable  evil.  The 
appearance  of  the  figures  is  an  illustration,  not  in  itself 
specially  alarming,  of  a  state  of  mind  which  is  profoundly 

63 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

mysterious  and  terrifying.  It  is  a  state  of  mind;  even  the 
external  objects  are  made  to  testify  to  their  subjection.  The 
oncoming  of  the  state  is  preceded  not  by  the  storms  and 
howlings  of  the  old  romances,  but  by  an  absolute  hush  and 
lapse  of  nature  which  we  feel  to  represent  the  ominous  trance 
of  her  own  mind.  'The  rooks  stopped  cawing  in  the  golden 
sky,  and  the  friendly  evening  hour  lost  for  the  unspeakable 
minute  all  its  voice.'  The  horror  of  the  story  comes  from  the 
force  with  which  it  makes  us  realize  the  power  that  our 
minds  possess  for  such  excursions  into  the  darkness;  when 
certain  lights  sink  or  certain  barriers  are  lowered,  the  ghosts 
of  the  mind,  untracked  desires,  indistinct  intimations,  are 
seen  to  be  a  large  company. 

In  the  hands  of  such  masters  as  Scott  and  Henry  James 
the  supernatural  is  so  wrought  in  with  the  natural  that  fear  is 
kept  from  a  dangerous  exaggeration  into  simple  disgust  or 
disbelief  verging  upon  ridicule.  Mr.  Kipling's  stories  The 
Mark  of  the  Beast  and  The  Return  of  Imray  are  powerful 
enough  to  repel  one  by  their  horror,  but  they  are  too  violent 
to  appeal  to  our  sense  of  wonder.  For  it  would  be  a  mistake 
to  suppose  that  supernatural  fiction  always  seeks  to  produce 
fear,  or  that  the  best  ghost  stories  are  those  which  most 
accurately  and  medically  describe  abnormal  states  of  mind. 
On  the  contrary,  a  vast  amount  of  fiction  both  in  prose  and 
in  verse  now  assures  us  that  the  world  to  which  we  shut  our 
eyes  is  far  more  friendly  and  inviting,  more  beautiful  by  day 
and  more  holy  by  night,  than  the  world  which  we  persist 
in  thinking  the  real  world.  The  country  is  peopled  with 
nymphs  and  dryads,  and  Pan,  far  from  being  dead,  is  at  his 
pranks  in  all  the  villages  of  England.  Much  of  this  myth- 
ology is  used  not  for  its  own  sake,  but  for  purposes  of  satire 
and  allegory;  but  there  exists  a  group  of  writers  who  have 
the  sense  of  the  unseen  without  such  alloy.  Such  a  sense  may 
bring  visions  of  fairies  or  phantoms,  or  it  may  lead  to  a 
quickened  perception  of  the  relations  existing  between  men 
and  plants,  or  houses  and  their  inhabitants,  or  any  one  of 
those  innumerable  alliances  which  somehow  or  other  we 
spin  between  ourselves  and  other  objects  in  our  passage. 

64 


Henry  James's  Ghost  Stories' 

IT  is  plain  that  Henry  James  was  a  good  deal  attracted  by 
the  ghost  story,  or,  to  speak  more  accurately,  by  the  story 
of  the  supernatural.  He  wrote  at  least  eight  of  them,  and  if 
we  wish  to  see  what  led  him  to  do  so,  and  what  opinion  he 
had  of  his  success,  nothing  is  simpler  than  to  read  his  own 
account  in  the  preface  to  the  volume  containing  Altar  of  the 
Dead.  Yet  perhaps  we  shall  keep  our  own  view  more  distinct 
if  we  neglect  the  preface.  As  the  years  go  by  certain  qualities 
appear,  and  others  disappear.  We  shall  only  muddle  our 
own  estimate  if  we  try,  dutifully,  to  make  it  square  with  the 
verdict  which  the  author  at  the  time  passed  on  his  own 
work.  For  example,  what  did  Henry  James  say  of  The  Great 
Good  Place? 

There  remains  The  Great  Good  Place  (1900) — to  the 
spirit  of  which,  however,  it  strikes  me  that  any  gloss  or 
comment  would  be  a  tactless  challenge.  It  embodies  a 
calculated  effect,  and  to  plunge  into  it,  I  find,  even  for  a 
beguiled  glance — a  course  I  indeed  recommend — is  to 
have  left  all  else  outside. 

And  to  us,  in  1921,  The  Great  Good  Place  is  a  failure.  It  is 
another  example  of  the  fact  that  when  a  writer  is  completely 
and  even  ecstatically  conscious  of  success  he  has,  as  likely  as 
not,  written  his  worst.  We  ought,  we  feel,  to  be  inside,  and 
we  remain  coldly  outside.  Something  has  failed  to  work,  and 
we  are  inclined  to  accuse  the  supernatural.  The  challenge 
may  be  tactless,  but  challenge  it  we  must. 

That  The  Great  Good  Place  begins  admirably,  no  one  will 
deny.  Without  the  waste  of  a  word  we  find  ourselves  at  once 
in  the  heart  of  a  situation.  The  harassed  celebrity,  George 
Dane,  is  surrounded  by  unopened  letters  and  unread  books; 
telegrams  arrive;  invitations  accumulate;  and  the  things  of 
1  Times  Literary  Supplement,  December  22,  1921. 
65 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

value  lie  hopelessly  buried  beneath  the  litter.  Meanwhile, 
Brown  the  manservant  announces  that  a  strange  young 
man  has  arrived  to  breakfast.  Dane  touches  the  young  man's 
hand,  and,  at  this  culminating  point  of  annoyance,  lapses 
into  a  trance  or  wakes  up  in  another  world.  He  finds  himself 
in  a  celestial  rest-cure  establishment.  Far  bells  toll;  flowers 
are  fragrant;  and  after  a  time  the  inner  life  revives.  But 
directly  the  change  is  accomplished  we  are  aware  that  some- 
thing is  wrong  with  the  story.  The  movement  flags;  the 
emotion  is  monotonous.  The  enchanter  waves  his  wand  and 
the  cows  go  on  grazing.  All  the  characteristic  phrases  are 
there  in  waiting — the  silver  bowls,  the  melted  hours — but 
there  is  no  work  for  them  to  do.  The  story  dwindles  to  a 
sweet  soliloquy.  Dane  and  the  Brothers  become  angelic  alle- 
gorical figures  pacing  a  world  that  is  like  ours  but  smoother 
and  emptier.  As  if  he  felt  the  need  of  something  hard  and 
objective  the  author  invokes  the  name  of  the  city  of  Brad- 
ford; but  it  is  vain.  The  Great  Good  Place  is  an  example  of  the 
sentimental  use  of  the  supernatural  and  for  that  reason  no 
doubt  Henry  James  would  be  likely  to  feel  that  he  had  been 
more  than  usually  intimate  and  expressive. 

The  other  stories  will  presently  prove  that  the  super- 
natural offers  great  prizes  as  well  as  great  risks;  but  let  us 
for  a  moment  dwell  upon  the  risks.  The  first  is  undoubtedly 
that  it  removes  the  shocks  and  buffetings  of  experience.  In 
the  breakfast-room  with  Brown  and  the  telegram  Henry 
James  was  forced  to  keep  moving  by  the  pressure  of  reality; 
the  door  must  open;  the  hour  must  strike.  Directly  he  sank 
through  the  solid  ground  he  gained  possession  of  a  world 
which  he  could  fashion  to  his  liking.  In  the  dream  world  the 
door  need  not  open;  the  clock  need  not  strike;  beauty  is  to 
be  had  for  the  asking.  But  beauty  is  the  most  perverse  of 
spirits;  it  seems  as  if  she  must  pass  through  ugliness  or  lie 
down  with  disorder  before  she  can  rise  in  her  own  person. 
The  ready-made  beauty  of  the  dream  world  produces  only 
an  anaemic  and  conventionalized  version  of  the  world  we 
know.  And  Henry  James  was  much  too  fond  of  the  world 
we  know  to  create  one  that  we  do  not  know.  The  visionary 

66 


HENRY    JAMES  S    GHOST    STORIES 

imagination  was  by  no  means  his.  His  genius  was  dramatic, 
not  lyric.  Even  his  characters  wilt  in  the  thin  atmosphere  he 
provides  for  them,  and  we  are  presented  with  a  Brother 
when  we  would  much  rather  grasp  the  substantial  person 
of  Brown. 

We  have  been  piling  the  risks,  rather  unfairly,  upon  one 
story  in  particular.  The  truth  is  perhaps  that  we  have 
become  fundamentally  sceptical.  Mrs.  Radcliffe  amused  our 
ancestors  because  they  were  our  ancestors;  because  they 
lived  with  very  few  books,  an  occasional  post,  a  newspaper 
superannuated  before  it  reached  them,  in  the  depths  of  the 
country  or  in  a  town  which  resembled  the  more  modest  of 
our  villages,  with  long  hours  to  spend  sitting  over  the  fire 
drinking  wine  by  the  light  of  half  a  dozen  candles.  Nowadays 
we  breakfast  upon  a  richer  feast  of  horror  than  served  them 
for  a  twelvemonth.  We  are  tired  of  violence;  we  suspect 
mystery.  Surely,  we  might  say  to  a  writer  set  upon  the 
supernatural,  there  are  facts  enough  in  the  world  to  go 
round;  surely  it  is  safer  to  stay  in  the  breakfast-room  with 
Brown.  Moreover,  we  are  impervious  to  fear.  Your  ghosts 
will  only  make  us  laugh,  and  if  you  try  to  express  some 
tender  and  intimate  vision  of  a  world  stripped  of  its  hide  we 
shall  be  forced  (and  there  is  nothing  more  uncomfortable)  to 
look  the  other  way.  But  writers,  if  they  are  worth  their  salt, 
never  take  advice.  They  always  run  risks.  To  admit  that  the 
supernatural  was  used  for  the  last  time  by  Mrs.  Radcliffe 
and  that  modern  nerves  are  immune  from  the  wonder  and 
terror  which  ghosts  have  always  inspired  would  be  to  throw 
up  the  sponge  too  easily.  If  the  old  methods  are  obsolete,  it 
is  the  business  of  a  writer  to  discover  new  ones.  The  public 
can  feel  again  what  it  has  once  felt — there  can  be  no  doubt 
about  that;  only  from  time  to  time  the  point  of  attack  must 
be  changed. 

How  consciously  Henry  James  set  himself  to  look  for  the 
weak  place  in  our  armour  of  insensibility  it  is  not  necessary 
to  decide.  Let  us  turn  to  another  story,  The  Friends  of  the 
Friends,  and  judge  whether  he  succeeded.  This  is  the  story  of 
a  man  and  woman  who  have  been  trying  for  years  to  meet 

67 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

but  only  accomplish  their  meeting  on  the  night  of  the 
woman's  death.  After  her  death  the  meetings  are  continued, 
and  when  this  is  divined  by  the  woman  he  is  engaged  to 
marry  she  refuses  to  go  on  with  the  marriage.  The  relation- 
ship is  altered.  Another  person,  she  says,  has  come  between 
them.  'You  see  her — you  see  her;  you  see  her  every  night!' 
It  is  what  we  have  come  to  call  a  typically  Henry  James 
situation.  It  is  the  same  theme  that  was  treated  with  enor- 
mous elaboration  in  The  Wings  of  the  Dove.  Only  there,  when 
Milly  has  come  between  Kate  and  Densher  and  altered  their 
relationship  for  ever,  she  has  ceased  to  exist;  here  the  anony- 
mous lady  goes  on  with  her  work  after  death.  And  yet — 
does  it  make  very  much  difference?  Henry  James  has  only 
to  take  the  smallest  of  steps  and  he  is  over  the  border.  His 
characters  with  their  extreme  fineness  of  perception  are 
already  half-way  out  of  the  body.  There  is  nothing  violent 
in  their  release.  They  seem  rather  to  have  achieved  at  last 
what  they  have  long  been  attempting — communication 
without  obstacle.  But  Henry  James,  after  all,  kept  his  ghosts 
for  his  ghost  stories.  Obstacles  are  essential  to  The  Wings  of 
the  Dove.  When  he  removed  them  by  supernatural  means  as 
he  did  in  The  Friends  of  the  Friends  he  did  so  in  order  to  pro- 
duce a  particular  effect.  The  story  is  very  short;  there  is  no 
time  to  elaborate  the  relationship;  but  the  point  can  be 
pressed  home  by  a  shock.  The  supernatural  is  brought  in  to 
provide  that  shock.  It  is  the  queerest  of  shocks — tranquil, 
beautiful,  like  the  closing  of  chords  in  harmony;  and  yet, 
somehow  obscene.  The  living  and  the  dead  by  virtue  of 
their  superior  sensibility  have  reached  across  the  gulf;  that 
is  beautiful.  The  live  man  and  the  dead  woman  have  met 
alone  at  night.  They  have  their  relationship.  The  spiritual 
and  the  carnal  meeting  together  produce  a  strange  emotion 
— not  exactly  fear,  nor  yet  excitement.  It  is  a  feeling  that 
we  do  not  immediately  recognize.  There  is  a  weak  spot  in 
our  armour  somewhere.  Perhaps  Henry  James  will  pene- 
trate by  methods  such  as  these. 

Next,  however,  we  turn  to  Owen  Wingrave,  and  the  entic- 
ing game  of  pinning  your  author  to  the  board  by  detecting 

68 


HENRY    JAMES  S    GHOST    STORIES 

once  more  traces  of  his  fineness,  his  subtlety,  whatever  his 
prevailing  characteristics  may  be,  is  rudely  interrupted. 
Pinioned,  tied  down,  to  all  appearance  lifeless,  up  he  jumps 
and  walks  away.  Somehow  one  has  forgotten  to  account  for 
the  genius,  for  the  driving  power  which  is  so  incalculable 
and  so  essential.  With  Henry  James  in  particular  we  tend, 
in  wonder  at  his  prodigious  dexterity,  to  forget  that  he  had 
a  crude  and  simple  passion  for  telling  stories.  The  preface  to 
Owen  Wingrave  throws  light  upon  that  fact,  and  incidentally 
suggests  why  it  is  that  Owen  Wingrave  as  a  ghost  story  misses 
its  mark.  One  summer's  afternoon,  many  years  ago,  he  tells 
us,  he  sat  on  a  penny  chair  under  a  great  tree  in  Kensington 
Gardens.  A  slim  young  man  sat  down  upon  another  chair 
near  by  and  began  to  read  a  book. 

Did  the  young  man  then,  on  the  spot,  just  become  Owen 
Wingrave,  establishing  by  the  mere  magic  of  type  the 
situation,  creating  at  a  stroke  all  the  implications  and 
filling  out  all  the  pictures?  .  .  .  my  poor  point  is  only  that 
at  the  beginning  of  my  session  in  the  penny  chair  the 
seedless  fable  hadn't  a  claim  to  make  or  an  excuse  to  give, 
and  that,  the  very  next  thing,  the  penny-worth  still  partly 
unconsumed,  it  was  fairly  bristling  with  pretexts.  '  Drama- 
tize it,  dramatize  it!'  would  seem  to  have  rung  with 
sudden  intensity  in  my  ears. 

So  the  theory  of  a  conscious  artist  taking  out  his  little 
grain  of  matter  and  working  it  into  the  finished  fabric  is 
another  of  our  critical  fables.  The  truth  appears  to  be  that 
he  sat  on  a  chair,  saw  a  young  man,  and  fell  asleep.  At  any 
rate,  once  the  group,  the  man,  or  perhaps  only  the  sky  and 
the  trees  become  significant,  the  rest  is  there  inevitably. 
Given  Owen  Wingrave,  then  Spencer  Coyle,  Mrs.  Goyle, 
Kate  Julian,  the  old  house,  the  season,  the  atmosphere  must 
be  in  existence.  Owen  Wingrave  implies  all  that.  The  artist 
has  simply  to  see  that  the  relations  between  these  places  and 
people  are  the  right  ones.  When  we  say  that  Henry  James 
had  a  passion  for  story-telling  we  mean  that  when  his 
significant  moment  came  to  him  the  accessories  were  ready 
to  flock  in. 

69 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

In  this  instance  they  flocked  in  almost  too  readily.  There 
they  are  on  the  spot  with  all  the  stir  and  importance  that 
belong  to  living  people.  Miss  Wingrave  seated  in  her  Baker 
Street  lodging  with  '  a  fat  catalogue  of  the  Army  and  Navy 
Stores,  which  reposed  on  a  vast  desolate  table-cover  of  false 
blue';  Mrs.  Coyle,  'a  fair  fresh  slow  woman',  who  admitted 
and  indeed  gloried  in  the  fact  that  she  was  in  love  with  her 
husband's  pupils,  'Which  shows  that  the  subject  between 
them  was  treated  in  a  liberal  spirit';  Spencer  Coyle  himself, 
and  the  boy  Lechmere — all  bear,  of  course,  upon  the  question 
of  Owen's  temperament  and  situation,  and  yet  they  bear  on 
so  many  other  things  besides.  We  seem  to  be  settling  in  for  a 
long  absorbing  narrative;  and  then,  rudely,  incongruously, 
a  shriek  rings  out;  poor  Owen  is  found  stretched  on  the 
threshold  of  the  haunted  room;  the  supernatural  has  cut  the 
book  in  two.  It  is  violent;  it  is  sensational;  but  if  Henry 
James  himself  were  to  ask  us:  'Now,  have  I  frightened  you?' 
we  should  be  forced  to  reply:  'Not  a  bit'.  The  catastrophe 
has  not  the  right  relations  to  what  has  gone  before.  The 
vision  in  Kensington  Gardens  did  not,  perhaps,  embrace 
the  whole.  Out  of  sheer  bounty  the  author  has  given  us  a 
scene  rich  in  possibilities — a  young  man  whose  problem  (he 
detests  war  and  is  condemned  to  be  a  soldier)  has  a  deep 
psychological  interest;  a  girl  whose  subtlety  and  oddity  are 
purposely  defined  as  if  in  readiness  for  future  use.  Yet  what 
use  is  made  of  them?  Kate  Julian  has  merely  to  dare  a  young 
man  to  sleep  in  a  haunted  room;  a  plump  Miss  from  a 
parsonage  would  have  done  as  well.  What  use  is  made  of  the 
supernatural?  Poor  Owen  Wingrave  is  knocked  on  the  head 
by  the  ghost  of  an  ancestor;  a  stable  bucket  in  a  dark  passage 
would  have  done  it  better. 

The  stories  in  which  Henry  James  uses  the  supernatural 
effectively  are,  then,  those  where  some  quality  in  a  char- 
acter or  in  a  situation  can  only  be  given  its  fullest  meaning 
by  being  cut  free  from  facts.  Its  progress  in  the  unseen  world 
must  be  closely  related  to  what  goes  on  in  this.  We  must  be 
made  to  feel  that  the  apparition  fits  the  crisis  of  passion  or 
of  conscience  which  sent  it  forth  so  exactly  that  the  ghost 

70 


HENRY    JAMES  S    GHOST    STORIES 

story,  besides  its  virtues  as  a  ghost  story,  has  the  additional 
charm  of  being  also  symbolical.  Thus  the  ghost  of  Sir 
Edmund  Orme  appears  to  the  lady  who  jilted  him  long  ago 
whenever  her  daughter  shows  signs  of  becoming  engaged. 
The  apparition  is  the  result  of  her  guilty  conscience,  but  it 
is  more  than  that.  It  is  the  guardian  of  the  rights  of  lovers.  It 
fits  what  has  gone  before;  it  completes.  The  use  of  the  super- 
natural draws  out  a  harmony  which  would  otherwise  be 
inaudible.  We  hear  the  first  note  close  at  hand,  and  then,  a 
moment  after,  the  second  chimes  far  away. 

Henry  James's  ghosts  have  nothing  in  common  with  the 
violent  old  ghosts — the  blood-stained  sea  captains,  the  white 
horses,  the  headless  ladies  of  dark  lanes  and  windy  commons. 
They  have  their  origin  within  us.  They  are  present  when- 
ever the  significant  overflows  our  powers  of  expressing  it; 
whenever  the  ordinary  appears  ringed  by  the  strange.  The 
baffling  things  that  are  left  over,  the  frightening  ones  that 
persist — these  are  the  emotions  that  he  takes,  embodies, 
makes  consoling  and  companionable.  But  how  can  we  be 
afraid?  As  the  gentleman  says  when  he  has  seen  the  ghost  of 
Sir  Edmund  Orme  for  the  first  time:  '  I  was  ready  to  answer 
for  it  to  all  and  sundry  that  ghosts  are  much  less  alarming 
and  more  amusing  than  was  commonly  supposed'.  The 
beautiful  urbane  spirits  are  only  not  of  this  world  because 
they  are  too  fine  for  it.  They  have  taken  with  them  across 
the  border  their  clothes,  their  manners,  their  breeding,  their 
band-boxes,  and  valets  and  ladies'  maids.  They  remain 
always  a  little  worldly.  We  may  feel  clumsy  in  their  pres- 
ence, but  we  cannot  feel  afraid.  What  does  it  matter,  then, 
if  we  do  pick  up  the  Turn  of  the  Screw  an  hour  or  so  before 
bedtime?  After  an  exquisite  entertainment  we  shall,  if  the 
other  stories  are  to  be  trusted,  end  with  this  fine  music  in 
our  ears,  and  sleep  the  sounder. 

Perhaps  it  is  the  silence  that  first  impresses  us.  Everything 
at  Bly  is  so  profoundly  quiet.  The  twitter  of  birds  at  dawn, 
the  far-away  cries  of  children,  faint  footsteps  in  the  distance 
stir  it  but  leave  it  unbroken.  It  accumulates;  it  weighs  us 
down;  it  makes  us  strangely  apprehensive  of  noise.  At  last 

7i 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

the  house  and  garden  die  out  beneath  it.  '  I  can  hear  again, 
as  I  write,  the  intense  hush  in  which  the  sounds  of  evening 
dropped.  The  rooks  stopped  cawing  in  the  golden  sky,  and 
the  unfriendly  hour  lost  for  the  unspeakable  minute  all  its 
voice.'  It  is  unspeakable.  We  know  that  the  man  who  stands 
on  the  tower  staring  down  at  the  governess  beneath  is  evil. 
Some  unutterable  obscenity  has  come  to  the  surface.  It  tries 
to  get  in;  it  tries  to  get  at  something.  The  exquisite  little 
beings  who  lie  innocently  asleep  must  at  all  costs  be  pro- 
tected. But  the  horror  grows.  Is  it  possible  that  the  little  girl, 
as  she  turns  back  from  the  window,  has  seen  the  woman 
outside?  Has  she  been  with  Miss  Jessel?  Has  Quint  visited 
the  boy?  It  is  Quint  who  hangs  about  us  in  the  dark;  who  is 
there  in  that  corner  and  again  there  in  that.  It  is  Quint  who 
must  be  reasoned  away,  and  for  all  our  reasoning  returns. 
Can  it  be  that  we  are  afraid?  But  it  is  not  a  man  with  red 
hair  and  a  white  face  whom  we  fear.  We  are  afraid  of  some- 
thing, perhaps,  in  ourselves.  In  short,  we  turn  on  the  light. 
If  by  its  beams  we  examine  the  story  in  safety,  note  how 
masterly  the  telling  is,  how  each  sentence  is  stretched,  each 
image  filled,  how  the  inner  world  gains  from  the  robustness 
of  the  outer,  how  beauty  and  obscenity  twined  together 
worm  their  way  to  the  depths — still  we  must  own  that 
something  remains  unaccounted  for.  We  must  admit  that 
Henry  James  has  conquered.  That  courtly,  worldly,  senti- 
mental old  gentleman  can  still  make  us  afraid  of  the  dark. 


72 


A  Terribly  Sensitive  Mind1 

THE  most  distinguished  writers  of  short  stories  in  Eng- 
land are  agreed,  says  Mr.  Murry,  that  as  a  writer  of 
short  stories  Katherine  Mansfield  was  hors  concours.  No  one 
has  succeeded  her,  and  no  critic  has  been  able  to  define  her 
quality.  But  the  reader  of  her  journal  is  well  content  to  let 
such  questions  be.  It  is  not  the  quality  of  her  writing  or  the 
degree  of  her  fame  that  interest  us  in  her  diary,  but  the 
spectacle  of  a  mind — a  terribly  sensitive  mind — receiving 
one  after  another  the  haphazard  impressions  of  eight  years 
of  life.  Her  diary  was  a  mystical  companion.  'Come  my 
unseen,  my  unknown,  let  us  talk  together',  she  says  on 
beginning  a  new  volume.  In  it  she  noted  facts — the  weather, 
an  engagement;  she  sketched  scenes;  she  analyzed  her  char- 
acter; she  described  a  pigeon  or  a  dream  or  a  conversation, 
nothing  could  be  more  fragmentary;  nothing  more  private. 
We  feel  that  we  are  watching  a  mind  which  is  alone  with 
itself;  a  mind  which  has  so  little  thought  of  an  audience  that 
it  will  make  use  of  a  shorthand  of  its  own  now  and  then,  or, 
as  the  mind  in  its  loneliness  tends  to  do,  divide  into  two  and 
talk  to  itself.  Katherine  Mansfield  about  Katherine  Mans- 
field. 

But  then  as  the  scraps  accumulate  we  find  ourselves  giving 
them,  or  more  probably  receiving  from  Katherine  Mans- 
field herself,  a  direction.  From  what  point  of  view  is  she 
looking  at  life  as  she  sits  there,  terribly  sensitive,  registering 
one  after  another  such  diverse  impressions?  She  is  a  writer; 
a  born  writer.  Everything  she  feels  and  hears  and  sees  is  not 
fragmentary  and  separate;  it  belongs  together  as  writing. 
Sometimes  the  note  is  directly  made  for  a  story.  'Let  me 
remember  when  I  write  about  that  fiddle  how  it  runs  up 
lightly  and  swings  down  sorrowful;  how  it  searches',  she  notes. 

1  New  York  Herald  Tribune,  September  18,  1927. 

73 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

Or,  'Lumbago.  This  is  a  very  queer  thing.  So  sudden,  so 
painful,  I  must  remember  it  when  I  write  about  an  old  man. 
The  start  to  get  up,  the  pause,  the  look  of  fury,  and  how, 
lying  at  night,  one  seems  to  get  locked.'  .  .  . 

Again,  the  moment  itself  suddenly  puts  on  significance, 
and  she  traces  the  outline  as  if  to  preserve  it.  'It's  raining, 
but  the  air  is  soft,  smoky,  warm.  Big  drops  patter  on  the 
languid  leaves,  the  tobacco  flowers  lean  over.  Now  there  is  a 
rustle  in  the  ivy.  Wingly  has  appeared  from  the  garden  next 
door;  he  bounds  from  the  wall.  And  delicately,  lifting  his 
paws,  pointing  his  ears,  very  afraid  the  big  wave  will  over- 
take him,  he  wades  over  the  lake  of  green  grass.'  The  Sister 
of  Nazareth  'showing  her  pale  gums  and  big  discoloured 
teeth'  asks  for  money.  The  thin  dog.  So  thin  that  his  body  is 
like  'a  cage  on  four  wooden  pegs',  runs  down  the  street.  In 
some  sense,  she  feels,  the  thin  dog  is  the  street.  In  all  this  we 
seem  to  be  in  the  midst  of  unfinished  stories;  here  is  a  begin- 
ning; here  an  end.  They  only  need  a  loop  of  words  thrown 
round  them  to  be  complete. 

But  then  the  diary  is  so  private  and  so  instinctive  that  it 
allows  another  self  to  break  off  from  the  self  that  writes  and 
to  stand  a  little  apart  watching  it  write.  The  writing  self  was 
a  queer  self;  sometimes  nothing  would  induce  it  to  write. 
'There  is  so  much  to  do  and  I  do  so  little.  Life  would  be 
almost  perfect  here  if  only  when  I  was  pretending  to  work  I 
always  was  working.  Look  at  the  stories  that  wait  and  wait 
iust  at  the  threshold.  .  .  .  Next  day.  Yet  take  this  morning,  for 
instance.  I  don't  want  to  write  anything.  It's  gray;  it's  heavy 
and  dull.  And  short  stories  seem  unreal  and  not  worth  doing. 
I  don't  want  to  write;  I  want  to  live.  What  does  she  mean 
by  that?  It's  not  easy  to  say.  But  there  you  are!' 

What  does  she  mean  by  that?  No  one  felt  more  seriously 
the  importance  of  writing  than  she  did.  In  all  the  pages  of 
her  journal,  instinctive,  rapid  as  they  are,  her  attitude 
toward  her  work  is  admirable,  sane,  caustic,  and  austere. 
There  is  no  literary  gossip;  no  vanity;  no  jealousy.  Although 
during  her  last  years  she  must  have  been  aware  of  her  success 
she  makes  no  allusion  to  it.  Her  own  comments  upon  her  work 

74 


A    TERRIBLY    SENSITIVE     MIND 

are  always  penetrating  and  disparaging.  Her  stories  wanted 
richness  and  depth;  she  was  only  'skimming  the  top — no 
more'.  But  writing,  the  mere  expression  of  things  adequately 
and  sensitively,  is  not  enough.  It  is  founded  upon  something 
unexpressed;  and  this  something  must  be  solid  and  entire. 
Under  the  desperate  pressure  of  increasing  illness  she  began 
a  curious  and  difficult  search,  of  which  we  catch  glimpses 
only  and  those  hard  to  interpret,  after  the  crystal  clearness 
which  is  needed  if  one  is  to  write  truthfully.  'Nothing  of  any 
worth  can  come  of  a  disunited  being',  she  wrote.  One  must 
have  health  in  one's  self.  After  five  years  of  struggle  she  gave 
up  the  search  after  physical  health  not  in  despair,  but  be- 
cause she  thought  the  malady  was  of  the  soul  and  that  the 
cure  lay  not  in  any  physical  treatment,  but  in  some  such 
'spiritual  brotherhood'  as  that  at  Fontainebleau,  in  which 
the  last  months  of  her  life  were  spent.  But  before  she  went 
she  wrote  the  summing  up  of  her  position  with  which  the 
journal  ends. 

She  wanted  health,  she  wrote;  but  what  did  she  mean  by 
health?  'By  health',  she  wrote,  'I  mean  the  power  to  lead  a 
full,  adult,  living,  breathing  life  in  close  contact  with  what  I 
love — the  earth  and  the  wonders  thereof — the  sea — the  sun. 
.  .  .  Then  I  want  to  work.  At  what?  I  want  so  to  live  that  I 
work  with  my  hands  and  my  feeling  and  my  brain.  I  want 
a  garden,  a  small  house,  grass,  animals,  books,  pictures, 
music.  And  out  of  this,  the  expression  of  this,  I  want  to  be 
writing.  (Though  I  may  write  about  cabmen.  That's  no 
matter.) '  The  diary  ends  with  the  words  'All  is  well'.  And 
since  she  died  three  months  later  it  is  tempting  to  think  that 
the  words  stood  for  some  conclusion  which  illness  and  the 
intensity  of  her  own  nature  drove  her  to  find  at  an  age  when 
most  of  us  are  loitering  easily  among  those  appearances  and 
impressions,  those  amusements  and  sensations,  which  none 
had  loved  better  than  she. 


75 


Women  and  Fiction1 

THE  title  of  this  article  can  be  read  in  two  ways:  it  may 
allude  to  women  and  the  fiction  that  they  write,  or  to 
women  and  the  fiction  that  is  written  about  them.  The 
ambiguity  is  intentional,  for  in  dealing  with  women  as 
writers,  as  much  elasticity  as  possible  is  desirable;  it  is  neces- 
sary to  leave  oneself  room  to  deal  with  other  things  besides 
their  work,  so  much  has  that  work  been  influenced  by  con- 
ditions that  have  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  art. 

The  most  superficial  inquiry  into  women's  writing  in- 
stantly raises  a  host  of  questions.  Why,  we  ask  at  once,  was 
there  no  continuous  writing  done  by  women  before  the 
eighteenth  century?  Why  did  they  then  write  almost  as 
habitually  as  men,  and  in  the  course  of  that  writing  produce, 
one  after  another,  some  of  the  classics  of  English  fiction? 
And  why  did  their  art  then,  and  why  to  some  extent  does 
their  art  still,  take  the  form  of  fiction? 

A  little  thought  will  show  us  that  we  are  asking  questions 
to  which  we  shall  get,  as  answer,  only  further  fiction.  The 
answer  lies  at  present  locked  in  old  diaries,  stuffed  away  in 
old  drawers,  half-obliterated  in  the  memories  of  the  aged. 
It  is  to  be  found  in  the  lives  of  the  obscure— in  those  almost 
unlit  corridors  of  history  where  the  figures  of  generations  of 
women  are  so  dimly,  so  fitfully  perceived.  For  very  little  is 
known  about  women.  The  history  of  England  is  the  history 
of  the  male  line,  not  of  the  female.  Of  our  fathers  we  know 
always  some  fact,  some  distinction.  They  were  soldiers  or 
they  were  sailors;  they  filled  that  office  or  they  made  that 
law.  But  of  our  mothers,  our  grandmothers,  our  great- 
grandmothers,  what  remains?  Nothing  but  a  tradition.  One 
was  beautiful;  one  was  red-haired;  one  was  kissed  by  a 
Queen.  We  know  nothing  of  them  except  their  names  and 

1    The  Forum,  March  1929. 

76 


WOMEN    AND    FICTION 

the  dates  of  their  marriages  and  the  number  of  children  they 
bore. 

Thus,  if  we  wish  to  know  why  at  any  particular  time 
women  did  this  or  that,  why  they  wrote  nothing,  why  on  the 
other  hand  they  wrote  masterpieces,  it  is  extremely  difficult 
to  tell.  Anyone  who  should  seek  among  those  old  papers, 
who  should  turn  history  wrong  side  out  and  so  construct  a 
faithful  picture  of  the  daily  life  of  the  ordinary  woman  in 
Shakespeare's  time,  in  Milton's  time,  in  Johnson's  time, 
would  not  only  write  a  book  of  astonishing  interest,  but 
would  furnish  the  critic  with  a  weapon  which  he  now  lacks. 
The  extraordinary  woman  depends  on  the  ordinary  woman. 
It  is  only  when  we  know  what  were  the  conditions  of  the 
average  woman's  life — the  number  of  her  children,  whether 
she  had  money  of  her  own,  if  she  had  a  room  to  herself, 
whether  she  had  help  in  bringing  up  her  family,  if  she  had 
servants,  whether  part  of  the  housework  was  her  task — it  is 
only  when  we  can  measure  the  way  of  life  and  the  experience 
of  life  made  possible  to  the  ordinary  woman  that  we  can 
account  for  the  success  or  failure  of  the  extraordinary  woman 
as  a  writer. 

Strange  spaces  of  silence  seem  to  separate  one  period  of 
activity  from  another.  There  was  Sappho  and  a  little  group 
of  women  all  writing  poetry  on  a  Greek  island  six  hundred 
years  before  the  birth  of  Christ.  They  fall  silent.  Then  about 
the  year  i  ooo  we  find  a  certain  court  lady,  the  Lady  Mura- 
saki,  writing  a  very  long  and  beautiful  novel  in  Japan.  But 
in  England  in  the  sixteenth  century,  when  the  dramatists 
and  poets  were  most  active,  the  women  were  dumb.  Eliza- 
bethan literature  is  exclusively  masculine.  Then,  at  the  end 
of  the  eighteenth  century  and  in  the  beginning  of  the  nine- 
teenth, we  find  women  again  writing — this  time  in  England 
— with  extraordinary  frequency  and  success. 

Law  and  custom  were  of  course  largely  responsible  for 
these  strange  intermissions  of  silence  and  speech.  When  a 
woman  was  liable,  as  she  was  in  the  fifteenth  century,  to  be 
beaten  and  flung  about  the  room  if  she  did  not  marry  the 
man  of  her  parents'  choice,  the  spiritual  atmosphere  was  not 

77 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

favourable  to  the  production  of  works  of  art.  When  she  was 
married  without  her  own  consent  to  a  man  who  thereupon 
became  her  lord  and  master,  'so  far  at  least  as  law  and 
custom  could  make  him',  as  she  was  in  the  time  of  the 
Stuarts,  it  is  likely  she  had  little  time  for  writing,  and  less 
encouragement.  The  immense  effect  of  environment  and 
suggestion  upon  the  mind,  we  in  our  psychoanalytical  age 
are  beginning  to  realize.  Again,  with  memoirs  and  letters  to 
help  us,  we  are  beginning  to  understand  how  abnormal  is 
the  effort  needed  to  produce  a  work  of  art,  and  what  shelter 
and  what  support  the  mind  of  the  artist  requires.  Of  those 
facts  the  lives  and  letters  of  men  like  Keats  and  Carlyle  and 
Flaubert  assure  us. 

Thus  it  is  clear  that  the  extraordinary  outburst  of  fiction 
in  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  in  England  was 
heralded  by  innumerable  slight  changes  in  law  and  customs 
and  manners.  And  women  of  the  nineteenth  century  had 
some  leisure;  they  had  some  education.  It  was  no  longer  the 
exception  for  women  of  the  middle  and  upper  classes  to 
choose  their  own  husbands.  And  it  is  significant  that  of  the 
four  great  women  novelists — Jane  Austen,  Emily  Bronte, 
Charlotte  Bronte,  and  George  Eliot — not  one  had  a  child, 
and  two  were  unmarried. 

Yet,  though  it  is  clear  that  the  ban  upon  writing  had  been 
removed,  there  was  still,  it  would  seem,  considerable  pres- 
sure upon  women  to  write  novels.  No  four  women  can  have 
been  more  unlike  in  genius  and  character  than  these  four. 
Jane  Austen  can  have  had  nothing  in  common  with  George 
Eliot;  George  Eliot  was  the  direct  opposite  of  Emily  Bronte. 
Yet  all  were  trained  for  the  same  profession;  all,  when  they 
wrote,  wrote  novels. 

Fiction  was,  as  fiction  still  is,  the  easiest  thing  for  a 
woman  to  write.  Nor  is  it  difficult  to  find  the  reason.  A  novel 
is  the  least  concentrated  form  of  art.  A  novel  can  be  taken  up 
or  put  down  more  easily  than  a  play  or  a  poem.  George 
Eliot  left  her  work  to  nurse  her  father.  Charlotte  Bronte  put 
down  her  pen  to  pick  the  eyes  out  of  the  potatoes.  And  living 
as  she  did  in  the  common  sitting-room,   surrounded   by 

78 


WOMEN     AND     FICTION 

people,  a  woman  was  trained  to  use  her  mind  in  observation 
and  upon  the  analysis  of  character.  She  was  trained  to  be  a 
novelist  and  not  to  be  a  poet. 

Even  in  the  nineteenth  century,  a  woman  lived  almost 
solely  in  her  home  and  her  emotions.  And  those  nineteenth- 
century  novels,  remarkable  as  they  were,  were  profoundly 
influenced  by  the  fact  that  the  women  who  wrote  them  were 
excluded  by  their  sex  from  certain  kinds  of  experience.  That 
experience  has  a  great  influence  upon  fiction  is  indisputable. 
The  best  part  of  Conrad's  novels,  for  instance,  would  be 
destroyed  if  it  had  been  impossible  for  him  to  be  a  sailor. 
Take  away  all  that  Tolstoi  knew  of  war  as  a  soldier,  of  life 
and  society  as  a  rich  young  man  whose  education  admitted 
him  to  all  sorts  of  experience,  and  War  and  Peace  would  be 
incredibly  impoverished. 

Yet  Pride  and  Prejudice,  Wuthering  Heights,  Villette,  and 
Middlemarch  were  written  by  women  from  whom  was  for- 
cibly withheld  all  experience  save  that  which  could  be  met 
with  in  a  middle-class  drawing-room.  No  first-hand  experi- 
ence of  war  or  seafaring  or  politics  or  business  was  possible 
for  them.  Even  their  emotional  life  was  strictly  regulated  by 
law  and  custom.  When  George  Eliot  ventured  to  live  with 
Mr.  Lewes  without  being  his  wife,  public  opinion  was  scan- 
dalized. Under  its  pressure  she  withdrew  into  a  suburban 
seclusion  which,  inevitably,  had  the  worst  possible  effects 
upon  her  work.  She  wrote  that  unless  people  asked  of  their 
own  accord  to  come  and  see  her,  she  never  invited  them.  At 
the  same  time,  on  the  other  side  of  Europe,  Tolstoi  was 
living  a  free  life  as  a  soldier,  with  men  and  women  of  all 
classes,  for  which  nobody  censured  him  and  from  which  his 
novels  drew  much  of  their  astonishing  breadth  and  vigour. 

But  the  novels  of  women  were  not  affected  only  by  the 
necessarily  narrow  range  of  the  writer's  experience.  They 
showed,  at  least  in  the  nineteenth  century,  another  char- 
acteristic which  may  be  traced  to  the  writer's  sex.  In  Middle- 
march  and  in  Jane  Eyre  we  are  conscious  not  merely  of  the 
writer's  character,  as  we  are  conscious  of  the  character  of 
Charles  Dickens,  but  we  are  conscious  of  a  woman's  presence 

79 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

— of  someone  resenting  the  treatment  of  her  sex  and  plead- 
ing for  its  rights.  This  brings  into  women's  writing  an  ele- 
ment which  is  entirely  absent  from  a  man's,  unless,  indeed, 
he  happens  to  be  a  working-man,  a  negro,  or  one  who  for 
some  other  reason  is  conscious  of  disability.  It  introduces  a 
distortion  and  is  frequently  the  cause  of  weakness.  The 
desire  to  plead  some  personal  cause  or  to  make  a  character 
the  mouthpiece  of  some  personal  discontent  or  grievance 
always  has  a  distressing  effect,  as  if  the  spot  at  which  the 
reader's  attention  is  directed  were  suddenly  twofold  instead 
of  single. 

The  genius  of  Jane  Austen  and  Emily  Bronte  is  never  more 
convincing  than  in  their  power  to  ignore  such  claims  and 
solicitations  and  to  hold  on  their  way  unperturbed  by  scorn 
or  censure.  But  it  needed  a  very  serene  or  a  very  powerful 
mind  to  resist  the  temptation  to  anger.  The  ridicule,  the 
censure,  the  assurance  of  inferiority  in  one  form  or  another 
which  were  lavished  upon  women  who  practised  an  art, 
provoked  such  reactions  naturally  enough.  One  sees  the 
effect  in  Charlotte  Bronte's  indignation,  in  George  Eliot's 
resignation.  Again  and  again  one  finds  it  in  the  work  of  the 
lesser  women  writers — in  their  choice  of  a  subject,  in  their 
unnatural  self-assertiveness,  in  their  unnatural  docility. 
Moreover,  insincerity  leaks  in  almost  unconsciously.  They 
adopt  a  view  in  deference  to  authority.  The  vision  becomes 
too  masculine  or  it  becomes  too  feminine;  it  loses  its  perfect 
integrity  and,  with  that,  its  most  essential  quality  as  a  work 
of  art. 

The  great  change  that  has  crept  into  women's  writing  is, 
it  would  seem,  a  change  of  attitude.  The  woman  writer  is  no 
longer  bitter.  She  is  no  longer  angry.  She  is  no  longer  plead- 
ing and  protesting  as  she  writes.  We  are  approaching,  if  we 
have  not  yet  reached,  the  time  when  her  writing  will  have 
little  or  no  foreign  influence  to  disturb  it.  She  will  be  able  to 
concentrate  upon  her  vision  without  distraction  from  out- 
side. The  aloofness  that  was  once  within  the  reach  of  genius 
and  originality  is  only  now  coming  within  the  reach  of 
ordinary  women.  Therefore  the  average  novel  by  a  woman 

80 


WOMEN    AND    FICTION 

is  far  more  genuine  and  far  more  interesting  to-day  than  it 
was  a  hundred  or  even  fifty  years  ago. 

But  it  is  still  true  that  before  a  woman  can  write  exactly 
as  she  wishes  to  write,  she  has  many  difficulties  to  face. 
To  begin  with,  there  is  the  technical  difficulty — so  simple, 
apparently;  in  reality,  so  baffling — that  the  very  form  of  the 
sentence  does  not  fit  her.  It  is  a  sentence  made  by  men;  it 
is  too  loose,  too  heavy,  too  pompous  for  a  woman's  use.  Yet 
in  a  novel,  which  covers  so  wide  a  stretch  of  ground,  an 
ordinary  and  usual  type  of  sentence  has  to  be  found  to  carry 
the  reader  on  easily  and  naturally  from  one  end  of  the  book 
to  the  other.  And  this  a  woman  must  make  for  herself,  alter- 
ing and  adapting  the  current  sentence  until  she  writes  one 
that  takes  the  natural  shape  of  her  thought  without  crushing 
or  distorting  it. 

But  that,  after  all,  is  only  a  means  to  an  end,  and  the  end 
is  still  to  be  reached  only  when  a  woman  has  the  courage  to 
surmount  opposition  and  the  determination  to  be  true  to 
herself.  For  a  novel,  after  all,  is  a  statement  about  a  thousand 
different  objects — human,  natural,  divine;  it  is  an  attempt 
to  relate  them  to  each  other.  In  every  novel  of  merit  these 
different  elements  are  held  in  place  by  the  force  of  the 
writer's  vision.  But  they  have  another  order  also,  which  is 
the  order  imposed  upon  them  by  convention.  And  as  men 
are  the  arbiters  of  that  convention,  as  they  have  established 
an  order  of  values  in  life,  so  too,  since  fiction  is  largely  based 
on  life,  these  values  prevail  there  also  to  a  very  great  extent. 

It  is  probable,  however,  that  both  in  life  and  in  art  the 
values  of  a  woman  are  not  the  values  of  a  man.  Thus,  when 
a  woman  comes  to  write  a  novel,  she  will  find  that  she  is 
perpetually  wishing  to  alter  the  established  values — to  make 
serious  what  appears  insignificant  to  a  man,  and  trivial 
what  is  to  him  important.  And  for  that,  of  course,  she  will  be 
criticized;  for  the  critic  of  the  opposite  sex  will  be  genuinely 
puzzled  and  surprised  by  an  attempt  to  alter  the  current 
scale  of  values,  and  will  see  in  it  not  merely  a  difference  of 
view,  but  a  view  that  is  weak,  or  trivial,  or  sentimental, 
because  it  differs  from  his  own. 

81 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

But  here,  too,  women  are  coming  to  be  more  independent 
of  opinion.  They  are  beginning  to  respect  their  own  sense  of 
values.  And  for  this  reason  the  subject  matter  of  their  novels 
begins  to  show  certain  changes.  They  are  less  interested,  it 
would  seem,  in  themselves;  on  the  other  hand,  they  are 
more  interested  in  other  women.  In  the  early  nineteenth 
century,  women's  novels  were  largely  autobiographical.  One 
of  the  motives  that  led  them  to  write  was  the  desire  to  expose 
their  own  suffering,  to  plead  their  own  cause.  Now  that  this 
desire  is  no  longer  so  urgent,  women  are  beginning  to 
explore  their  own  sex,  to  write  of  women  as  women  have 
never  been  written  of  before;  for  of  course,  until  very  lately, 
women  in  literature  were  the  creation  of  men. 

Here  again  there  are  difficulties  to  overcome,  for,  if  one 
may  generalize,  not  only  do  women  submit  less  readily  to 
observation  than  men,  but  their  lives  are  far  less  tested  and 
examined  by  the  ordinary  processes  of  life.  Often  nothing 
tangible  remains  of  a  woman's  day.  The  food  that  has  been 
cooked  is  eaten;  the  children  that  have  been  nursed  have 
gone  out  into  the  world.  Where  does  the  accent  fall?  What 
is  the  salient  point  for  the  novelist  to  seize  upon?  It  is  difficult 
to  say.  Her  life  has  an  anonymous  character  which  is  baffling 
and  puzzling  in  the  extreme.  For  the  first  time,  this  dark 
country  is  beginning  to  be  explored  in  fiction;  and  at  the 
same  moment  a  woman  has  also  to  record  the  changes  in 
women's  minds  and  habits  which  the  opening  of  the  pro- 
fessions has  introduced.  She  has  to  observe  how  their  lives 
are  ceasing  to  run  underground;  she  has  to  discover  what 
new  colours  and  shadows  are  showing  in  them  now  that  they 
are  exposed  to  the  outer  world. 

If,  then,  one  should  try  to  sum  up  the  character  of 
women's  fiction  at  the  present  moment,  one  would  say  that 
it  is  courageous;  it  is  sincere;  it  keeps  closely  to  what  women 
feel.  It  is  not  bitter.  It  does  not  insist  upon  its  femininity. 
But  at  the  same  time,  a  woman's  book  is  not  written  as  a 
man  would  write  it.  These  qualities  are  much  commoner 
than  they  were,  and  they  give  even  to  second-  and  third-rate 
work  the  value  of  truth  and  the  interest  of  sincerity. 

82 


WOMEN    AND     FICTION 

But  in  addition  to  these  good  qualities,  there  are  two  that 
call  for  a  word  more  of  discussion.  The  change  which  has 
turned  the  English  woman  from  a  nondescript  influence, 
fluctuating  and  vague,  to  a  voter,  a  wage-earner,  a  respon- 
sible citizen,  has  given  her  both  in  her  life  and  in  her  art  a 
turn  toward  the  impersonal.  Her  relations  now  are  not  only 
emotional;  they  are  intellectual,  they  are  political.  The  old 
system  which  condemned  her  to  squint  askance  at  things 
through  the  eyes  or  through  the  interests  of  husband  or 
brother,  has  given  place  to  the  direct  and  practical  interests 
of  one  who  must  act  for  herself,  and  not  merely  influence  the 
acts  of  others.  Hence  her  attention  is  being  directed  away 
from  the  personal  centre  which  engaged  it  exclusively  in  the 
past  to  the  impersonal,  and  her  novels  naturally  become 
more  critical  of  society,  and  less  analytical  of  individual 
lives. 

We  may  expect  that  the  office  of  gadfly  to  the  state,  which 
has  been  so  far  a  male  prerogative,  will  now  be  discharged 
by  women  also.  Their  novels  will  deal  with  social  evils  and 
remedies.  Their  men  and  women  will  not  be  observed 
wholly  in  relation  to  each  other  emotionally,  but  as  they 
cohere  and  clash  in  groups  and  classes  and  races.  That  is  one 
change  of  some  importance.  But  there  is  another  more 
interesting  to  those  who  prefer  the  butterfly  to  the  gadfly — 
that  is  to  say,  the  artist  to  the  reformer.  The  greater  imper- 
sonality of  women's  lives  will  encourage  the  poetic  spirit, 
and  it  is  in  poetry  that  women's  fiction  is  still  weakest.  It 
will  lead  them  to  be  less  absorbed  in  facts  and  no  longer 
content  to  record  with  astonishing  acuteness  the  minute 
details  which  fall  under  their  own  observation.  They  will 
look  beyond  the  personal  and  political  relationships  to  the 
wider  questions  which  the  poet  tries  to  solve — of  our  destiny 
and  the  meaning  of  life. 

The  basis  of  the  poetic  attitude  is  of  course  largely  founded 
upon  material  things.  It  depends  upon  leisure,  and  a  little 
money,  and  the  chance  which  money  and  leisure  give  to 
observe  impersonally  and  dispassionately.  With  money  and 
leisure  at  their  service,  women  will  naturally  occupy  them- 

83 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

selves  more  than  has  hitherto  been  possible  with  the  craft  of 
letters.  They  will  make  a  fuller  and  a  more  subtle  use  of  the 
instrument  of  writing.  Their  technique  will  become  bolder 
and  richer. 

In  the  past,  the  virtue  of  women's  writing  often  lay  in  its 
divine  spontaneity,  like  that  of  the  blackbird's  song  or  the 
thrush's.  It  was  untaught;  it  was  from  the  heart.  But  it  was 
also,  and  much  more  often,  chattering  and  garrulous — mere 
talk  spilt  over  paper  and  left  to  dry  in  pools  and  blots.  In 
future,  granted  time  and  books  and  a  little  space  in  the 
house  for  herself,  literature  will  become  for  women,  as  for 
men,  an  art  to  be  studied.  Women's  gift  will  be  trained  and 
strengthened.  The  novel  will  cease  to  be  the  dumping- 
ground  for  the  personal  emotions.  It  will  become,  more  than 
at  present,  a  work  of  art  like  any  other,  and  its  resources  and 
its  limitations  will  be  explored. 

From  this  it  is  a  short  step  to  the  practice  of  the  sophisti- 
cated arts,  hitherto  so  little  practised  by  women — to  the 
writing  of  essays  and  criticism,  of  history  and  biography.  And 
that,  too,  if  we  are  considering  the  novel,  will  be  of  advan- 
tage; for  besides  improving  the  quality  of  the  novel  itself,  it 
will  draw  off  the  aliens  who  have  been  attracted  to  fiction  by 
its  accessibility  while  their  hearts  lay  elsewhere.  Thus  will 
the  novel  be  rid  of  those  excrescences  of  history  and  fact 
which,  in  our  time,  have  made  it  so  shapeless. 

So,  if  we  may  prophesy,  women  in  time  to  come  will 
write  fewer  novels,  but  better  novels;  and  not  novels  only, 
but  poetry  and  criticism  and  history.  But  in  this,  to  be  sure, 
one  is  looking  ahead  to  that  golden,  that  perhaps  fabulous, 
age  when  women  will  have  what  has  so  long  been  denied 
them — leisure,  and  money,  and  a  room  to  themselves. 


84 


An  Essay  in  Criticism1 

HUMAN  credulity  is  indeed  wonderful.  There  may  be 
good  reasons  for  believing  in  a  King  or  a  Judge  or  a 
Lord  Mayor.  When  we  see  them  go  sweeping  by  in  their 
robes  and  their  wigs,  with  their  heralds  and  their  outriders, 
our  knees  begin  to  shake  and  our  looks  to  falter.  But  what 
reason  there  is  for  believing  in  critics  it  is  impossible  to  say. 
They  have  neither  wigs  nor  outriders.  They  differ  in  no  way 
from  other  people  if  one  sees  them  in  the  flesh.  Yet  these 
insignificant  fellow  creatures  have  only  to  shut  themselves 
up  in  a  room,  dip  a  pen  in  the  ink,  and  call  themselves  'we', 
for  the  rest  of  us  to  believe  that  they  are  somehow  exalted, 
inspired,  infallible.  Wigs  grow  on  their  heads.  Robes  cover 
their  limbs.  No  greater  miracle  was  ever  performed  by  the 
power  of  human  credulity.  And,  like  most  miracles,  this  one, 
too,  has  had  a  weakening  effect  upon  the  mind  of  the 
believer.  He  begins  to  think  that  critics,  because  they  call 
themselves  so,  must  be  right.  He  begins  to  suppose  that 
something  actually  happens  to  a  book  when  it  has  been 
praised  or  denounced  in  print.  He  begins  to  doubt  and 
conceal  his  own  sensitive,  hesitating  apprehensions  when 
they  conflict  with  the  critics'  decrees. 

And  yet,  barring  the  learned  (and  learning  is  chiefly 
useful  in  judging  the  work  of  the  dead),  the  critic  is  rather 
more  fallible  than  the  rest  of  us.  He  has  to  give  us  his 
opinion  of  a  book  that  has  been  published  two  days,  perhaps, 
with  the  shell  still  sticking  to  its  head.  He  has  to  get  outside 
that  cloud  of  fertile,  but  unrealized,  sensation  which  hangs 
about  a  reader,  to  solidify  it,  to  sum  it  up.  The  chances  are 
that  he  does  this  before  the  time  is  ripe;  he  does  it  too 
rapidly  and  too  definitely.  He  says  that  it  is  a  great  book  or 
a  bad  book.  Yet,  as  he  knows,  when  he  is  content  to  read 

1  New  York  Herald  Tribune,  October  9,  1927. 

85 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

only,  it  is  neither.  He  is  driven  by  force  of  circumstances  and 
some  human  vanity  to  hide  those  hesitations  which  beset 
him  as  he  reads,  to  smooth  out  all  traces  of  that  crab-like 
and  crooked  path  by  which  he  has  reached  what  he  choses 
to  call  'a  conclusion'.  So  the  crude  trumpet  blasts  of  critical 
opinion  blow  loud  and  shrill,  and  we,  humble  readers  that 
we  are,  bow  our  submissive  heads. 

But  let  us  see  whether  we  can  do  away  with  these  pre- 
tences for  a  season  and  pull  down  the  imposing  curtain 
which  hides  the  critical  process  until  it  is  complete.  Let  us 
give  the  mind  a  new  book,  as  one  drops  a  lump  of  fish  into  a 
cage  of  fringed  and  eager  sea  anemones,  and  watch  it  paus- 
ing, pondering,  considering  its  attack.  Let  us  see  what  pre- 
judices affect  it;  what  influences  tell  upon  it.  And  if  the 
conclusion  becomes  in  the  process  a  little  less  conclusive,  it 
may,  for  that  very  reason,  approach  nearer  to  the  truth. 
The  first  thing  that  the  mind  desires  is  some  foothold  of  fact 
upon  which  it  can  lodge  before  it  takes  flight  upon  its  specu- 
lative career.  Vague  rumours  attach  themselves  to  people's 
names.  Of  Mr.  Hemingway,  we  know  that  he  is  an  American 
living  in  France,  an  'advanced'  writer,  we  suspect,  con- 
nected with  what  is  called  a  movement,  though  which  of  the 
many  we  own  that  we  do  not  know.  It  will  be  well  to  make 
a  little  more  certain  of  these  matters  by  reading  first  Mr. 
Hemingway's  earlier  book,  The  Sun  Also  Rises,  and  it  soon 
becomes  clear  from  this  that,  if  Mr.  Hemingway  is  'ad- 
vanced', it  is  not  in  the  way  that  is  to  us  most  interesting. 
A  prejudice  of  which  the  reader  would  do  well  to  take 
account  is  here  exposed;  the  critic  is  a  modernist.  Yes,  the 
excuse  would  be  because  the  moderns  make  us  aware  of  what 
we  feel  subconsciously;  they  are  truer  to  our  own  experience; 
they  even  anticipate  it,  and  this  gives  us  a  particular  excite- 
ment. But  nothing  new  is  revealed  about  any  of  the  char- 
acters in  The  Sun  Also  Rises.  They  come  before  us  shaped, 
proportioned,  weighed,  exactly  as  the  characters  of  Maupas- 
sant are  shaped  and  proportioned.  They  are  seen  from  the 
old  angle;  the  old  reticences,  the  old  relations  between 
author  and  character  are  observed. 

86 


AN     ESSAY    IN     CRITICISM 

But  the  critic  has  the  grace  to  reflect  that  this  demand  for 
new  aspects  and  new  perspectives  may  well  be  overdone.  It 
may  become  whimsical.  It  may  become  foolish.  For  why 
should  not  art  be  traditional  as  well  as  original?  Are  we  not 
attaching  too  much  importance  to  an  excitement  which, 
though  agreeable,  may  not  be  valuable  in  itself,  so  that  we 
are  led  to  make  the  fatal  mistake  of  overriding  the  writer's 
gift? 

At  any  rate,  Mr.  Hemingway  is  not  modern  in  the  sense 
given;  and  it  would  appear  from  his  first  novel  that  this 
rumour  of  modernity  must  have  sprung  from  his  subject 
matter  and  from  his  treatment  of  it  rather  than  from  any 
fundamental  novelty  in  his  conception  of  the  art  of  fiction. 
It  is  a  bare,  abrupt,  outspoken  book.  Life  as  people  live  it  in 
Paris  in  1927  or  even  in  1928  is  described  as  we  of  this  age 
do  describe  life  (it  is  here  that  we  steal  a  march  upon  the 
Victorians)  openly,  frankly,  without  prudery,  but  also  with- 
out surprise.  The  immoralities  and  moralities  of  Paris  are 
described  as  we  are  apt  to  hear  them  spoken  of  in  private 
life.  Such  candour  is  modern  and  it  is  admirable.  Then,  for 
qualities  grow  together  in  art  as  in  life,  we  find  attached  to 
this  admirable  frankness  an  equal  bareness  of  style.  Nobody 
speaks  for  more  than  a  line  or  two.  Half  a  line  is  mostly 
sufficient.  If  a  hill  or  a  town  is  described  (and  there  is  always 
some  reason  for  its  description)  there  it  is,  exactly  and  liter- 
ally built  up  of  little  facts,  literal  enough,  but  chosen,  as  the 
final  sharpness  of  the  outline  proves,  with  the  utmost  care. 
Therefore,  a  few  words  like  these:  'The  grain  was  just  begin- 
ning to  ripen  and  the  fields  were  full  of  poppies.  The  pasture 
land  was  green  and  there  were  fine  trees,  and  sometimes  big 
rivers  and  chateaux  off  in  the  trees ' — which  have  a  curious 
force.  Each  word  pulls  its  weight  in  the  sentence.  And  the 
prevailing  atmosphere  is  fine  and  sharp,  like  that  of  winter 
days  when  the  boughs  are  bare  against  the  sky.  (But  if  we 
had  to  choose  one  sentence  with  which  to  describe  what 
Mr.  Hemingway  attempts  and  sometimes  achieves,  we 
should  quote  a  passage  from  a  description  of  a  bullfight: 
'  Romero  never  made  any  contortions,  always  it  was  straight 

87 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

and  pure  and  natural  in  line.  The  others  twisted  themselves 
like  corkscrews,  their  elbows  raised  and  leaned  against  the 
flanks  of  the  bull  after  his  horns  had  passed,  to  give  a  faked 
look  of  danger.  Afterwards,  all  that  was  faked  turned  bad 
and  gave  an  unpleasant  feeling.  Romero's  bullfighting  gave 
real  emotion,  because  he  kept  the  absolute  purity  of  line  in 
his  movements  and  always  quietly  and  calmly  let  the  horns 
pass  him  close  each  time.')  Mr.  Hemingway's  writing,  one 
might  paraphrase,  gives  us  now  and  then  a  real  emotion, 
because  he  keeps  absolute  purity  of  line  in  his  movements 
and  lets  the  horns  (which  are  truth,  fact,  reality)  pass  him 
close  each  time.  But  there  is  something  faked,  too,  which 
turns  bad  and  gives  an  unpleasant  feeling — that  also  we 
must  face  in  course  of  time. 

And  here,  indeed,  we  may  conveniently  pause  and  sum 
up  what  point  we  have  reached  in  our  critical  progress. 
Mr.  Hemingway  is  not  an  advanced  writer  in  the  sense  that 
he  is  looking  at  life  from  a  new  angle.  What  he  sees  is  a 
tolerably  familiar  sight.  Common  objects  like  beer  bottles 
and  journalists  figure  largely  in  the  foreground.  But  he  is  a 
skilled  and  conscientious  writer.  He  has  an  aim  and  makes 
for  it  without  fear  or  circumlocution.  We  have,  therefore,  to 
take  his  measure  against  somebody  of  substance,  and  not 
merely  line  him,  for  form's  sake,  beside  the  indistinct  bulk  of 
some  ephemeral  shape  largely  stuffed  with  straw.  Reluc- 
tantly we  reach  this  decision,  for  this  process  of  measure- 
ment is  one  of  the  most  difficult  of  a  critic's  tasks.  He  has  to 
decide  which  are  the  most  salient  points  of  the  book  he 
has  just  read;  to  distinguish  accurately  to  what  kind  they 
belong,  and  then,  holding  them  against  whatever  model  is 
chosen  for  comparison,  to  bring  out  their  deficiency  or 
their  adequacy. 

Recalling  The  Sun  Also  Rises,  certain  scenes  rise  in  memory: 
the  bullfight,  the  character  of  the  Englishman,  Harris;  here 
a  little  landscape  which  seems  to  grow  behind  the  people 
naturally;  here  a  long,  lean  phrase  which  goes  curling  round 
a  situation  like  the  lash  of  a  whip.  Now  and  again  this 
phrase  evokes  a  character  brilliantly,  more  often  a  scene.  Of 

88 


AN    ESSAY    IN     CRITICISM 

character,  there  is  little  that  remains  firmly  and  solidly 
elucidated.  Something  indeed  seems  wrong  with  the  people. 
If  we  place  them  (the  comparison  is  bad)  against  Tchekov's 
people,  they  are  flat  as  cardboard.  If  we  place  them  (the 
comparison  is  better)  against  Maupassant's  people  they  are 
crude  as  a  photograph.  If  we  place  them  (the  comparison 
may  be  illegitimate)  against  real  people,  the  people  we  liken 
them  to  are  of  an  unreal  type.  They  are  people  one  may  have 
seen  showing  off  at  some  cafe;  talking  a  rapid,  high-pitched 
slang,  because  slang  is  the  speech  of  the  herd,  seemingly 
much  at  their  ease,  and  yet  if  we  look  at  them  a  little  from 
the  shadow  not  at  their  ease  at  all,  and,  indeed,  terribly 
afraid  of  being  themselves,  or  they  would  say  things  simply 
in  their  natural  voices.  So  it  would  seem  that  the  thing  that 
is  faked  is  character;  Mr.  Hemingway  leans  against  the 
flanks  of  that  particular  bull  after  the  horns  have  passed. 

After  this  preliminary  study  of  Mr.  Hemingway's  first 
book,  we  come  to  the  new  book,  Men  Without  Women,  pos- 
sessed of  certain  views  or  prejudices.  His  talent  plainly  may 
develop  along  different  lines.  It  may  broaden  and  fill  out; 
it  may  take  a  little  more  time  and  go  into  things — human 
beings  in  particular — rather  more  deeply.  And  even  if  this 
meant  the  sacrifice  of  some  energy  and  point,  the  exchange 
would  be  to  our  private  liking.  On  the  other  hand,  his  is  a 
talent  which  may  contract  and  harden  still  further!  it  may 
come  to  depend  more  and  more  upon  the  emphatic  moment; 
make  more  and  more  use  of  dialogue,  and  cast  narrative  and 
description  overboard  as  an  encumbrance. 

The  fact  that  Men  Without  Women  consists  of  short  stories, 
makes  it  probable  that  Mr.  Hemingway  has  taken  the  second 
line.  But,  before  we  explore  the  new  book,  a  word  should  be 
said  which  is  generally  left  unsaid,  about  the  implications  of 
the  title.  As  the  publisher  puts  it  .  .  .  'the  softening  femi- 
nine influence  is  absent — either  through  training,  discipline, 
death,  or  situation'.  Whether  we  are  to  understand  by  this 
that  women  are  incapable  of  training,  discipline,  death,  or 
situation,  we  do  not  know.  But  it  is  undoubtedly  true,  if  we 
are  going  to  persevere  in  our  attempt  to  reveal  the  processes 

89 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

of  the  critic's  mind,  that  any  emphasis  laid  upon  sex  is 
dangerous.  Tell  a  man  that  this  is  a  woman's  book,  or  a 
woman  that  this  is  a  man's,  and  you  have  brought  into  play 
sympathies  and  antipathies  which  have  nothing  to  do  with 
art.  The  greatest  writers  lay  no  stress  upon  sex  one  way  or 
the  other.  The  critic  is  not  reminded  as  he  reads  them  that 
he  belongs  to  the  masculine  or  the  feminine  gender.  But  in 
our  time,  thanks  to  our  sexual  perturbations,  sex  conscious- 
ness is  strong,  and  shows  itself  in  literature  by  an  exaggera- 
tion, a  protest  of  sexual  characteristics  which  in  either  case  is 
disagreeable.  Thus  Mr.  Lawrence,  Mr.  Douglas,  and  Mr. 
Joyce  partly  spoil  their  books  for  women  readers  by  their 
display  of  self-conscious  virility;  and  Mr.  Hemingway,  but 
much  less  violently,  follows  suit.  All  we  can  do,  whether  we 
are  men  or  women,  is  to  admit  the  influence,  look  the  fact  in 
the  face,  and  so  hope  to  stare  it  out  of  countenance. 

To  proceed  then — Men  Without  Women  consists  of  short 
stories  in  the  French  rather  than  in  the  Russian  manner. 
The  great  French  masters,  Merimee  and  Maupassant,  made 
their  stories  as  self-conscious  and  compact  as  possible.  There 
is  never  a  thread  left  hanging;  indeed,  so  contracted  are  they 
that  when  the  last  sentence  of  the  last  page  flares  up,  as  it  so 
often  does,  we  see  by  its  light  the  whole  circumference  and 
significance  of  the  story  revealed.  The  Tchekov  method  is, 
of  course,  the  very  opposite  of  this.  Everything  is  cloudy  and 
vague,  loosely  trailing  rather  than  tightly  furled.  The  stories 
move  slowly  out  of  sight  like  clouds  in  the  summer  air, 
leaving  a  wake  of  meaning  in  our  minds  which  gradually 
fades  away.  Of  the  two  methods,  who  shall  say  which  is  the 
better?  At  any  rate,  Mr.  Hemingway,  enlisting  under  the 
French  masters,  carries  out  their  teaching  up  to  a  point  with 
considerable  success. 

There  are  in  Men  Without  Women  many  stories  which,  if 
life  were  longer,  one  would  wish  to  read  again.  Most  of  them 
indeed  are  so  competent,  so  efficient,  and  so  bare  of  super- 
fluity that  one  wonders  why  they  do  not  make  a  deeper  dent 
in  the  mind  than  they  do.  Take  the  pathetic  story  of  the 
Major  whose  wife  died — 'In  Another  Country';  or  the  sar- 

90 


AN    ESSAY    IN     CRITICISM 

clonic  story  of  a  conversation  in  a  railway  carriage — 'A 
Canary  for  One';  or  stories  like  'The  Undefeated'  and 
'  Fifty  Grand '  which  are  full  of  the  sordidness  and  heroism 
of  bull-fighting  and  boxing — all  of  these  are  good  trenchant 
stories,  quick,  terse,  and  strong.  If  one  had  not  summoned 
the  ghosts  of  Tchekov,  Merimee,  and  Maupassant,  no  doubt 
one  would  be  enthusiastic.  As  it  is,  one  looks  about  for  some- 
thing, fails  to  find  something,  and  so  is  brought  again  to  the 
old  familiar  business  of  ringing  impressions  on  the  counter, 
and  asking  what  is  wrong? 

For  some  reason  the  book  of  short  stories  does  not  seem  to 
us  to  go  as  deep  or  to  promise  as  much  as  the  novel.  Perhaps 
it  is  the  excessive  use  of  dialogue,  for  Mr.  Hemingway's  use 
of  it  is  surely  excessive.  A  writer  will  always  be  chary  of 
dialogue  because  dialogue  puts  the  most  violent  pressure 
upon  the  reader's  attention.  He  has  to  hear,  to  see,  to  supply 
the  right  tone,  and  to  fill  in  the  background  from  what  the 
characters  say  without  any  help  from  the  author.  Therefore, 
when  fictitious  people  are  allowed  to  speak  it  must  be 
because  they  have  something  so  important  to  say  that  it 
stimulates  the  reader  to  do  rather  more  than  his  share  of  the 
work  of  creation.  But,  although  Mr.  Hemingway  keeps  us 
under  the  fire  of  dialogue  constantly,  his  people,  half  the 
time,  are  saying  what  the  author  could  say  much  more 
economically  for  them.  At  last  we  are  inclined  to  cry  out 
with  the  little  girl  in  '  Hills  Like  White  Elephants ' :  '  Would 
you  please  please  please  please  please  please  stop  talking?' 

And  probably  it  is  this  superfluity  of  dialogue  which  leads 
to  that  other  fault  which  is  always  lying  in  wait  for  the  writer 
of  short  stories:  the  lack  of  proportion.  A  paragraph  in 
excess  will  make  these  little  craft  lopsided  and  will  bring 
about  that  blurred  effect  which,  when  one  is  out  for  clarity 
and  point,  so  baffles  the  reader.  And  both  these  faults,  the 
tendency  to  flood  the  page  with  unnecessary  dialogue  and 
the  lack  of  sharp,  unmistakable  points  by  which  we  can  take 
hold  of  the  story,  come  from  the  more  fundamental  fact  that, 
though  Mr.  Hemingway  is  brilliantly  and  enormously  skil- 
ful, he  lets  his  dexterity,  like  the  bullfighter's  cloak,  get 

9i 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

between  him  and  the  fact.  For  in  truth  story-writing  has 
much  in  common  with  bullfighting.  One  may  twist  one's 
self  like  a  corkscrew  and  go  through  every  sort  of  contortion 
so  that  the  public  thinks  one  is  running  every  risk  and  dis- 
playing superb  gallantry.  But  the  true  writer  stands  close  up 
to  the  bull  and  lets  the  horns — call  them  life,  truth,  reality, 
whatever  you  like — pass  him  close  each  time. 

Mr.  Hemingway,  then,  is  courageous;  he  is  candid;  he  is 
highly  skilled;  he  plants  words  precisely  where  he  wishes;  he 
has  moments  of  bare  and  nervous  beauty;  he  is  modern  in 
manner  but  not  in  vision;  he  is  self-consciously  virile;  his 
talent  has  contracted  rather  than  expanded;  compared  with 
his  novel  his  stories  are  a  little  dry  and  sterile.  So  we  sum 
him  up.  So  we  reveal  some  of  the  prejudices,  the  instincts 
and  the  fallacies  out  of  which  what  it  pleases  us  to  call 
criticism  is  made. 


92 


Phases  of  Fiction1 

THE  following  pages  attempt  to  record  the  impressions 
made  upon  the  mind  by  reading  a  certain  number  of 
novels  in  succession.  In  deciding  which  book  to  begin  with 
and  which  book  to  go  on  with,  the  mind  was  not  pressed  to 
make  a  choice.  It  was  allowed  to  read  what  it  liked.  It  was 
not,  that  is  to  say,  asked  to  read  historically,  nor  was  it 
asked  to  read  critically.  It  was  asked  to  read  only  for  interest 
and  pleasure,  and,  at  the  same  time,  to  comment  as  it 
read  upon  the  nature  of  the  interest  and  the  pleasure 
that  it  found.  It  went  its  way,  therefore,  independent  of 
time  and  reputation.  It  read  Trollope  before  it  read  Jane 
Austen  and  skipped,  by  chance  or  negligence,  some  of 
the  most  celebrated  books  in  English  fiction.  Thus,  there 
is  little  reference  or  none  to  Fielding,  Richardson,  or 
Thackeray. 

Yet,  if  nobody  save  the  professed  historian  and  critic 
reads  to  understand  a  period  or  to  revise  a  reputation, 
nobody  reads  simply  by  chance  or  without  a  definite  scale 
of  values.  There  is,  to  speak  metaphorically,  some  design 
that  has  been  traced  upon  our  minds  which  reading  brings 
to  light.  Desires,  appetites,  however  we  may  come  by  them, 
fill  it  in,  scoring  now  in  this  direction,  now  in  that.  Hence, 
an  ordinary  reader  can  often  trace  his  course  through  litera- 
ture with  great  exactness  and  can  even  think  himself,  from 
time  to  time,  in  possession  of  a  whole  world  as  inhabitable 
as  the  real  world.  Such  a  world,  it  may  be  urged  against  it, 
is  always  in  process  of  creation.  Such  a  world,  it  may  be 
added,  likewise  against  it,  is  a  personal  world,  a  world 
limited  and  unhabitable  perhaps  by  other  people,  a  world 
created  in  obedience  to  tastes  that  may  be  peculiar  to  one 
temperament  and  distasteful  to  another — indeed,  any  such 

1    The  Bookman,  April,  May,  &  June,  1929. 

93 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

record  of  reading,  it  will  be  concluded,  is  bound  to  be 
limited,  personal,  erratic. 

In  its  defence,  however,  it  may  be  claimed  that  if  the 
critic  and  the  historian  speak  a  more  universal  language,  a 
more  learned  language,  they  are  also  likely  to  miss  the  centre 
and  to  lose  their  way  for  the  simple  reason  that  they  know  so 
many  things  about  a  writer  that  a  writer  does  not  know 
about  himself.  Writers  are  heard  to  complain  that  influences 
— education,  heredity,  theory — are  given  weight  of  which 
they  themselves  are  unconscious  in  the  act  of  creation.  Is  the 
author  in  question  the  son  of  an  architect  or  a  bricklayer? 
Was  he  educated  at  home  or  at  the  university?  Does  he 
come  before  or  after  Thomas  Hardy?  Yet  not  one  of  these 
things  is  in  his  mind,  perhaps,  as  he  writes  and  the  reader's 
ignorance,  narrowing  and  limiting  as  it  is,  has  at  least  the 
advantage  that  it  leaves  unhampered  what  the  reader  has  in 
common  with  the  writer,  though  much  more  feebly:  the 
desire  to  create. 

Here,  then,  very  briefly  and  with  inevitable  simplifica- 
tions, an  attempt  is  made  to  show  the  mind  at  work  upon  a 
shelf  full  of  novels  and  to  watch  it  as  it  chooses  and  rejects, 
making  itself  a  dwelling-place  in  accordance  with  its  own 
appetites.  Of  these  appetites,  perhaps,  the  simplest  is  the 
desire  to  believe  wholly  and  entirely  in  something  which  is 
fictitious.  That  appetite  leads  on  all  the  others  in  turn. 
There  is  no  saying,  for  they  change  so  much  at  different 
ages,  that  one  appetite  is  better  than  another.  The  common 
reader  is,  moreover,  suspicious  of  fixed  labels  and  settled 
hierarchies.  Still,  since  there  must  be  an  original  impulse, 
let  us  give  the  lead  to  this  one  and  start  upon  the  shelf  full  of 
novels  in  order  to  gratify  our  wish  to  believe. 


The  Truth-Tellers 

In  English  fiction  there  are  a  number  of  writers  who  gratify 
our  sense  of  belief — Defoe,  Swift,  Trollope,  Borrow,  W.  E. 
Norris,  for  example;  among  the  French,  one  thinks  instantly 

94 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

of  Maupassant.  Each  of  them  assures  us  that  things  are 
precisely  as  they  say  they  are.  What  they  describe  happens 
actually  before  our  eyes.  We  get  from  their  novels  the  same 
sort  of  refreshment  and  delight  that  we  get  from  seeing 
something  actually  happen  in  the  street  below.  A  dustman, 
for  example,  by  an  awkward  movement  of  his  arm  knocks 
over  a  bottle  apparently  containing  Condy's  Fluid  which 
cracks  upon  the  pavement.  The  dustman  gets  down;  he 
picks  up  the  jagged  fragments  of  the  broken  bottle;  he  turns 
to  a  man  who  is  passing  in  the  street.  We  cannot  take  our 
eyes  off  him  until  we  have  feasted  our  powers  of  belief  to  the 
full.  It  is  as  if  a  channel  were  cut,  into  which  suddenly  and 
with  great  relief  an  emotion  hitherto  restrained  rushes  and 
pours.  We  forget  whatever  else  we  may  be  doing.  This 
positive  experience  overpowers  all  the  mixed  and  ambiguous 
feelings  of  which  we  may  be  possessed  at  the  moment.  The 
dustman  has  knocked  over  a  bottle;  the  red  stain  is  spreading 
on  the  pavement.  It  happens  precisely  so. 

The  novels  of  the  great  truth-tellers,  of  whom  Defoe  is 
easily  the  English  chief,  procure  for  us  a  refreshment  of  this 
kind.  He  tells  us  the  story  of  Moll  Flanders,  of  Robinson 
Crusoe,  of  Roxana,  and  we  feel  our  powers  of  belief  rush 
into  the  channel,  thus  cut,  instantly,  fertilizing  and  refresh- 
ing our  entire  being.  To  believe  seems  the  greatest  of  all 
pleasures.  It  is  impossible  to  glut  our  greed  for  truth,  so 
rapacious  is  it.  There  is  not  a  shadowy  or  insubstantial  word 
in  the  whole  book  to  startle  our  nervous  sense  of  security. 
Three  or  four  strong,  direct  strokes  of  the  pen  carve  out 
Roxana's  character.  Her  dinner  is  set  indisputably  on  the 
table.  It  consists  of  veal  and  turnips.  The  day  is  fine  or 
cloudy;  the  month  is  April  or  September.  Persistently, 
naturally,  with  a  curious,  almost  unconscious  iteration, 
emphasis  is  laid  upon  the  very  facts  that  most  reassure  us  of 
stability  in  real  life,  upon  money,  furniture,  food,  until  we 
seem  wedged  among  solid  objects  in  a  solid  universe. 

One  element  of  our  delight  comes  from  the  sense  that  this 
world,  with  all  its  circumstantiality,  bright  and  round  and 
hard  as  it  is,  is  yet  complete,  so  that  in  whatever  direction 

95 


y 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

we  reach  out  for  assurance  we  receive  it.  If  we  press  on 
beyond  the  confines  of  each  page,  as  it  is  our  instinct  to  do, 
completing  what  the  writer  has  left  unsaid,  we  shall  find 
that  we  can  trace  our  way;  that  there  are  indications  which 
let  us  realize  them;  there  is  an  under  side,  a  dark  side  to  this 
world.  Defoe  presided  over  his  universe  with  the  omnipo- 
tence of  a  God,  so  that  his  world  is  perfectly  in  scale. 
Nothing  is  so  large  that  it  makes  another  thing  too  small; 
nothing  so  small  that  it  makes  another  thing  too  large. 

The  name  of  God  is  often  found  on  the  lips  of  his  people, 
but  they  invoke  a  deity  only  a  little  less  substantial  than 
they  are  themselves,  a  being  seated  solidly  not  so  very  far 
above  them  in  the  tree  tops.  A  divinity  more  mystical,  could 
Defoe  have  made  us  believe  in  him,  would  so  have  dis- 
credited the  landscape  and  cast  doubt  upon  the  substance 
of  the  men  and  women  that  our  belief  in  them  would  have 
perished  at  the  heart.  Or,  suppose  that  he  let  himself  dwell 
upon  the  green  shades  of  the  forest  depths  or  upon  the 
sliding  glass  of  the  summer  stream.  Again,  however  much 
we  were  delighted  by  the  description,  we  should  have  been 
uneasy  because  this  other  reality  would  have  wronged  the 
massive  and  monumental  reality  of  Crusoe  and  Moll  Flan- 
ders. As  it  is,  saturated  with  the  truth  of  his  own  universe, 
no  such  discrepancy  is  allowed  to  intrude.  God,  man,  nature 
are  all  real,  and  they  are  all  real  with  the  same  kind  of 
reality — an  astonishing  feat,  since  it  implies  complete  and 
perpetual  submission  on  the  writer's  part  to  his  conviction, 
an  obdurate  deafness  to  all  the  voices  which  seduce  and 
tempt  him  to  gratify  other  moods.  We  have  only  to  reflect 
how  seldom  a  book  is  carried  through  on  the  same  impulse 
of  belief,  so  that  its  perspective  is  harmonious  throughout,  to 
realize  how  great  a  writer  Defoe  was.  One  could  number  on 
one's  fingers  half  a  dozen  novels  which  set  out  to  be  master- 
pieces and  yet  have  failed  because  the  belief  flags;  the 
realities  are  mixed;  the  perspective  shifts  and,  instead  of  a 
final  clarity,  we  get  a  baffling,  if  only  a  momentary,  confusion. 

Having,  now,  feasted  our  powers  of  belief  to  the  full  and 
so  enjoyed  the  relief  and  rest  of  this  positive  world  existing  so 

96 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

palpably  and  completely  outside  of  us,  there  begins  to  come 
over  us  that  slackening  of  attention  which  means  that  the 
nerve  in  use  is  sated  for  the  time  being.  We  have  absorbed 
as  much  of  this  literal  truth  as  we  can  and  we  begin  to  crave 
for  something  to  vary  it  that  will  yet  be  in  harmony  with  it. 
We  do  not  want,  except  in  a  flash  or  a  hint,  such  truth 
as  Roxana  offers  us  when  she  tells  us  how  her  master,  the 
Prince,  would  sit  by  their  child  and  '  loved  to  look  at  it  when 
it  was  asleep'.  For  that  truth  is  hidden  truth;  it  makes  us 
dive  beneath  the  surface  to  realize  it  and  so  holds  up  the 
action.  It  is,  then,  action  that  we  want.  One  desire  having 
run  its  course,  another  leaps  forward  to  take  up  the  burden 
and  no  sooner  have  we  formulated  our  desire  than  Defoe  has 
given  it  to  us.  ' On  with  the  story' — that  cry  is  forever  on  his 
lips.  No  sooner  has  he  got  his  facts  assembled  than  the 
burden  is  floated.  Perpetually  springing  up,  fresh  and  effort- 
less, action  and  event,  quickly  succeeding  each  other  thus 
set  in  motion  this  dense  accumulation  of  facts  and  keep  the 
breeze  blowing  in  our  faces.  It  becomes  obvious,  then,  that 
if  his  people  are  sparely  equipped  and  bereft  of  certain 
affections,  such  as  love  of  husband  and  child,  which  we 
expect  of  people  at  leisure,  it  is  that  they  may  move  quicker. 
They  must  travel  light  since  it  is  for  adventure  that  they  are 
made.  They  will  need  quick  wits,  strong  muscles,  and  rocky 
common  sense  on  the  road  they  are  to  travel  rather  than 
sentiment,  reflection,  or  the  power  of  self-analysis. 

Belief,  then,  is  completely  gratified  by  Defoe.  Here,  the 
reader  can  rest  himself  and  enter  into  possession  of  a  large 
part  of  his  domain.  He  tests  it;  he  tries  it;  he  feels  nothing 
give  under  him  or  fade  before  him.  Still,  belief  seeks  fresh 
sustenance  as  a  sleeper  seeks  a  fresh  side  of  the  pillow.  He 
may  turn,  and  this  is  likely,  to  someone  closer  to  him  in 
time  than  Defoe  in  order  to  gratify  his  desire  for  belief  (for 
distance  of  time  in  a  novel  sets  up  picturesqueness,  hence 
unfamiliarity) .  If  he  should  take  down,  for  example,  some 
book  of  a  prolific  and  once  esteemed  novelist,  like  W.  E. 
Norris,  he  will  find  that  the  juxtaposition  of  the  two  books 
brings  each  out  more  clearly. 

97 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

W.  E.  Norris  was  an  industrious  writer  who  is  well  worth 
singling  out  for  inquiry  if  only  because  he  represents  that 
vast  body  of  forgotten  novelists  by  whose  labours  fiction  is 
kept  alive  in  the  absence  of  the  great  masters.  At  first,  we 
seem  to  be  given  all  that  we  need:  girls  and  boys,  cricket, 
shooting,  dancing,  boating,  lovemaking,  marriage;  a  park 
here;  a  London  drawing-room  there;  here,  an  English 
gentleman;  there,  a  cad;  dinners,  tea-parties,  canters  in  the 
Row;  and,  behind  it  all,  green  and  gray,  domestic  and 
venerable,  the  fields  and  manor  houses  of  England.  Then,  as 
one  scene  succeeds  another,  half-way  through  the  book,  we 
seem  to  have  a  great  deal  more  belief  on  our  hands  than  we 
know  what  to  do  with.  We  have  exhausted  the  vividness  of 
slang;  the  modernity,  the  adroit  turn  of  mood.  We  loiter  on 
the  threshold  of  the  scene,  asking  to  be  allowed  to  press  a 
little  further;  we  take  some  phrase,  and  look  at  it  as  if  it 
ought  to  yield  us  more.  Then,  turning  our  eyes  from  the 
main  figures,  we  try  to  sketch  out  something  in  the  back- 
ground, to  pursue  these  feelings  and  relations  away  from 
the  present  moment;  not,  needless  to  say,  with  a  view  to 
discovering  some  over-arching  conception,  something  which 
we  may  call  'a  reading  of  life'.  No,  our  desire  is  otherwise: 
some  shadow  of  depth  appropriate  to  the  bulk  of  the  figures; 
some  Providence  such  as  Defoe  provides  or  morality  such  as 
he  suggests,  so  that  we  can  go  beyond  the  age  itself  without 
falling  into  inanity. 

Then,  we  discover  it  is  the  mark  of  a  second-rate  writer 
that  he  cannot  pause  here  or  suggest  there.  All  his  powers 
are  strained  in  keeping  the  scene  before  us,  its  brightness 
and  its  credibility.  The  surface  is  all;  there  is  nothing  beyond. 

Our  capacity  for  belief,  however,  is  not  in  the  least  ex- 
hausted. It  is  only  a  question  of  finding  something  that  will 
revive  it  for  us.  Not  Shakespeare  and  not  Shelley  and  not 
Hardy;  perhaps,  Trollope,  Swift,  Maupassant.  Above  all, 
Maupassant  is  the  most  promising  at  the  moment,  for 
Maupassant  enjoys  the  great  advantage  that  he  writes  in 
French.  Not  from  any  merit  of  his  own,  he  gives  us  that 
little  fillip  which  we  get  from  reading  a  language  whose 

98 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

edges  have  not  been  smoothed  for  us  by  daily  use.  The  very 
sentences  shape  themselves  in  a  way  that  is  definitely 
charming.  The  words  tingle  and  sparkle.  As  for  English, 
alas,  it  is  our  language — shop-worn,  not  so  desirable,  perhaps. 
Moreover,  each  of  these  compact  little  stories  has  its  pinch 
of  gunpowder,  artfully  placed  so  as  to  explode  when  we 
tread  on  its  tail.  The  last  words  are  always  highly  charged. 
Off  they  go,  bang,  in  our  faces  and  there  is  lit  up  for  us  in 
one  uncompromising  glare  someone  with  his  hand  lifted, 
someone  sneering,  someone  turning  his  back,  someone 
catching  an  omnibus,  as  if  this  insignificant  action,  what- 
ever it  may  be,  summed  up  the  whole  situation  forever. 

The  reality  that  Maupassant  brings  before  us  is  always 
one  of  the  body,  of  the  senses — the  ripe  flesh  of  a  servant 
girl,  for  example,  or  the  succulence  of  food.  '  Elle  restait 
inerte,  ne  sentant  plus  son  corps,  et  l'esprit  disperse,  comme 
si  quelqu'un  l'eut  d'echiquete  avec  un  de  ces  instruments 
dont  se  servent  les  cardeurs  pour  effiloquer  la  laine  des 
matelas.'  Or  her  tears  dried  themselves  upon  her  cheeks 
'comme  des  gouttes  d'eau  sur  du  fer  rouge'.  It  is  all  con- 
crete; it  is  all  visualized.  It  is  a  world,  then,  in  which  one  can 
believe  with  one's  eyes  and  one's  nose  and  one's  senses; 
nevertheless,  it  is  a  world  which  secretes  perpetually  a  little 
drop  of  bitterness.  Is  this  all?  And,  if  this  is  all,  is  it  enough? 
Must  we,  then,  believe  this?  So  we  ask.  Now  that  we  are 
given  truth  unadorned,  a  disagreeable  sensation  seems 
attached  to  it,  which  we  must  analyse  before  we  go  further. 

Suppose  that  one  of  the  conditions  of  things  as  they  are 
is  that  they  are  unpleasant,  have  we  strength  enough  to 
support  that  unpleasantness  for  the  sake  of  the  delight  of 
believing  in  it?  Are  we  not  shocked  somehow  by  Gulliver's 
Travels  and  Boule  de  suif  and  La  Maison  Tellier?  Shall  we  not 
always  be  trying  to  get  round  the  obstacle  of  ugliness  by 
saying  that  Maupassant  and  his  like  are  narrow,  cynical, 
and  unimaginative  when,  in  fact,  it  is  their  truthfulness  that 
we  resent — the  fact  that  leeches  suck  the  naked  legs  of 
servant  girls,  that  there  are  brothels,  that  human  nature  is 
fundamentally  cold,  selfish,  corrupt?  This  discomfort  at  the 

99 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

disagreeableness  of  truth  is  one  of  the  first  things  that  shakes 
very  lightly  our  desire  to  believe.  Our  Anglo-Saxon  blood, 
perhaps,  has  given  us  an  instinct  that  truth  is,  if  not  exactly 
beautiful,  at  least  pleasant  or  virtuous  to  behold.  But  let  us 
look  once  more  at  truth  and,  this  time,  through  the  eyes 
of  Anthony  Trollope,  'a  big,  blustering,  spectacled,  loud 
voiced  hunting  man  .  .  .  whose  language  in  male  society 
was,  I  believe,  so  lurid  that  I  was  not  admitted  to  breakfast 
with  him  .  .  .  who  rode  about  the  country  establishing  penny 
posts,  and  wrote,  as  the  story  goes,  so  many  thousand  words 
before  breakfast  every  day  of  his  life'.1 

Certainly,  the  Barchester  novels  tell  the  truth,  and  the 
English  truth,  at  first  sight,  is  almost  as  plain  of  feature  as 
the  French  truth,  though  with  a  difference.  Mr.  Slope  is  a 
hypocrite,  with  a  'pawing,  greasy  way  with  him'.  Mrs. 
Proudie  is  a  domineering  bully.  The  Archdeacon  is  well- 
meaning  but  coarse-grained  and  thick-cut.  Thanks  to  the 
vigour  of  the  author,  the  world  of  which  these  are  the  most 
prominent  inhabitants  goes  through  its  daily  rigmarole  of 
feeding  and  begetting  children  and  worshipping  with  a 
thoroughness,  a  gusto,  which  leave  us  no  loophole  of  escape. 
We  believe  in  Barchester  as  we  believe  in  the  reality  of  our 
own  weekly  bills.  Nor,  indeed,  do  we  wish  to  escape  from 
the  consequences  of  our  belief,  for  the  truth  of  the  Slopes 
and  the  Proudies,  the  truth  of  the  evening  party  where  Mrs. 
Proudie  has  her  dress  torn  off  her  back  under  the  light  of 
eleven  gas  jets,  is  entirely  acceptable. 

At  the  top  of  his  bent  Trollope  is  a  big,  if  not  first-rate 
novelist,  and  the  top  of  his  bent  came  when  he  drove  his  pen 
hard  and  fast  after  the  humours  of  provincial  life  and  scored, 
without  cruelty  but  with  hale  and  hearty  common  sense, 
the  portraits  of  those  well-fed,  black-coated,  unimagina- 
tive men  and  women  of  the  fifties.  In  his  manner  with 
them,  and  his  manner  is  marked,  there  is  an  admirable 
shrewdness,  like  that  of  a  family  doctor  or  solicitor,  too  well 
acquainted  with  human  foibles  to  judge  them  other  than 
tolerantly  and  not  above  the  human  weakness  of  liking  one 
1  Vignettes  of  Memory,  by  Lady  Violet  Greville,  1927. 
IOO 


PHASES     OF    FICTION 

person  a  great  deal  better  than  another  for  no  good  reason. 
Indeed,  though  he  does  his  best  to  be  severe  and  is  at  his 
best  when  most  so,  he  could  not  hold  himself  aloof,  but  let 
us  know  that  he  loved  the  pretty  girl  and  hated  the  oily 
humbug  so  vehemently  that  it  is  only  by  a  great  pull  on  his 
reins  that  he  keeps  himself  straight.  It  is  a  family  party  over 
which  he  presides  and  the  reader  who  becomes,  as  time  goes 
on,  one  of  Trollope's  most  intimate  cronies  has  a  seat  at  his 
right  hand.  Their  relation  becomes  confidential. 

All  this,  of  course,  complicates  what  was  simple  enough 
in  Defoe  and  Maupassant.  There,  we  were  plainly  and 
straightforwardly  asked  to  believe.  Here,  we  are  asked  to 
believe,  but  to  believe  through  the  medium  of  Trollope's 
temperament  and,  thus,  a  second  relationship  is  set  up  with 
Trollope  himself  which,  if  it  diverts  us,  distracts  us  also. 
The  truth  is  no  longer  quite  so  true.  The  clear  cold  truth, 
which  seems  to  lie  before  us  unveiled  in  Gulliver's  Travels  and 
Moll  Flanders  and  La  Maison  Tellier,  is  here  garnished  with  a 
charming  embroidery.  But  it  is  not  from  this  attractive 
embellishment  of  Trollope's  personality  that  the  disease 
comes  which  in  the  end  proves  fatal  to  the  huge,  substantial, 
well  buttressed,  and  authenticated  truth  of  the  Barchester 
novels.  Truth  itself,  however  unpleasant,  is  interesting 
always.  But,  unfortunately,  the  conditions  of  storytelling 
are  harsh;  they  demand  that  scene  shall  follow  scene;  that 
party  shall  be  supported  by  another  party,  one  parsonage  by 
another  parsonage;  that  all  shall  be  of  the  same  calibre;  that 
the  same  values  shall  prevail.  If  we  are  told  here  that  the 
palace  was  lit  by  gas,  we  must  be  told  there  that  the  manor 
house  was  faithful  to  the  oil  lamp.  But  what  will  happen  if, 
in  process  of  solidifying  the  entire  body  of  his  story,  the 
novelist  finds  himself  out  of  facts  or  flagging  in  his  invention? 
Must  he  then  go  on?  Yes,  for  the  story  has  to  be  finished: 
the  intrigue  discovered,  the  guilty  punished,  the  lovers 
married  in  the  end.  The  record,  therefore,  becomes  at  times 
merely  a  chronicle.  Truth  peters  out  into  a  thin-blooded 
catalogue.  Better  would  it  be,  we  feel,  to  leave  a  blank  or 
even  to  outrage  our  sense  of  probability  than  to  stuff  the 

IOI 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

crevices  with  this  makeshift  substance:  the  wrong  side  of 
truth  is  a  worn,  dull  fabric,  unsteeped  in  the  waters  of 
imagination  and  scorched.  But  the  novel  has  issued  her 
orders;  I  consist,  she  says,  of  two  and  thirty  chapters;  and 
who  am  I,  we  seem  to  hear  the  sagacious  and  humble 
Trollope  ask,  with  his  usual  good  sense,  that  I  should  go 
disobeying  the  novel?  And  he  manfully  provides  us  with 
makeshifts. 

If,  then,  we  reckon  up  what  we  have  got  from  the  truth- 
tellers,  we  find  that  it  is  a  world  where  our  attention  is 
always  being  drawn  to  things  which  can  be  seen,  touched, 
and  tasted,  so  that  we  get  an  acute  sense  of  the  reality  of  our 
physical  existence.  Having  thus  established  our  belief,  the 
truth-tellers  at  once  contrive  that  its  solidity  shall  be  broken 
before  it  becomes  oppressive  by  action.  Events  happen; 
coincidence  complicates  the  plain  story.  But  their  actions 
are  all  in  keeping  one  with  another  and  they  are  extremely 
careful  not  to  discredit  them  or  alter  the  emphasis  in  any 
way  by  making  their  characters  other  than  such  people  as 
naturally  express  themselves  to  the  full  in  active  and  ad- 
venturous careers.  Then,  again,  they  hold  the  three  great 
powers  which  dominate  fiction — God,  Nature,  and  Man — 
in  stable  relation  so  that  we  look  at  a  world  in  proper  per- 
spective; where,  moreover,  things  hold  good  not  only  here 
at  the  moment  in  front  of  us  but,  there,  behind  that  tree  or 
among  those  unknown  people  far  away  in  the  shadow 
behind  those  hills.  At  the  same  time,  truth-telling  implies 
disagreeableness.  It  is  part  of  truth — the  sting  and  edge  of 
it.  We  cannot  deny  that  Swift,  Defoe,  and  Maupassant  all 
convince  us  that  they  reach  a  more  profound  depth  in  their 
ugliness  than  Trollope  in  his  pleasantness.  For  this  reason, 
truth-telling  easily  swerves  a  little  to  one  side  and  becomes 
satiric.  It  walks  beside  the  fact  and  apes  it,  like  a  shadow 
which  is  only  a  little  more  humped  and  angular  than  the 
object  which  casts  it.  Yet,  in  its  perfect  state,  when  we  can 
believe  absolutely,  our  satisfaction  is  complete.  Then,  we 
can  say,  though  other  states  may  exist  which  are  better  or 
more  exalted,  there  is  none  that  makes  this  unnecessary, 

1 02 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

none  that  supersedes  it.  But  truth-telling  carries  in  its  breast 
a  weakness  which  is  apparent  in  the  works  of  the  lesser 
writers  or  in  the  masters  themselves  when  they  are  ex- 
hausted. Truth-telling  is  liable  to  degenerate  into  perfunc- 
tory fact-recording,  the  repetition  of  the  statement  that  it 
was  on  Wednesday  that  the  Vicar  held  his  mother's  meeting 
which  was  often  attended  by  Mrs.  Brown  and  Miss  Dobson 
in  their  pony  carriage,  a  statement  which,  as  the  reader  is 
quick  to  perceive,  has  nothing  of  truth  in  it  but  the  respect- 
able outside. 

At  length,  then,  taking  into  account  the  perfunctory  fact- 
recording,  the  lack  of  metaphor,  the  plainness  of  the  lan- 
guage, and  the  fact  that  we  believe  most  when  the  truth  is 
most  painful  to  us,  it  is  not  strange  that  we  should  become 
aware  of  another  desire  welling  up  spontaneously  and 
making  its  way  into  those  cracks  which  the  great  monuments 
of  the  truth-tellers  wear  inevitably  upon  their  solid  bases. 
A  desire  for  distance,  for  music,  for  shadow,  for  space,  takes 
hold  of  us.  The  dustman  has  picked  up  his  broken  bottle; 
he  has  crossed  the  road;  he  begins  to  lose  solidity  and  detail 
over  there  in  the  evening  dusk. 


The  Romantics 

'It  was  a  November  morning,  and  the  cliffs  which  over- 
looked the  ocean  were  hung  with  thick  and  heavy  mist, 
when  the  portals  of  the  ancient  and  half  ruinous  tower,  in 
which  Lord  Ravenswood  had  spent  the  last  and  troubled 
years  of  his  life,  opened,  that  his  mortal  remains  might  pass 
forward  to  an  abode  yet  more  dreary  and  lonely.' 

No  change  could  be  more  complete.  The  dustman  has 
become  a  Lord;  the  present  has  become  the  past;  homely 
Anglo-Saxon  speech  has  become  Latin  and  many  syllabled; 
instead  of  pots  and  pans,  gas  jets  and  snug  broughams,  we 
have  a  half-ruinous  tower  and  cliffs,  the  ocean  and  Novem- 
ber, heavy  in  mist.  This  past  and  this  ruin,  this  lord  and  this 
autumn,  this  ocean  and  this  cliff  are  as  delightful  to  us  as 

103 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

the  change  from  a  close  room  and  voices  to  the  night  and 
the  open  air.  The  curious  softness  and  remoteness  of  the 
Bride  ofLammermoor,  the  atmosphere  of  rusty  moorland  and 
splashing  waves,  the  dark  and  the  distance  actually  seem  to 
be  adding  themselves  to  that  other  more  truthful  scene  which 
we  still  hold  in  mind,  and  to  be  giving  it  completeness. 
After  that  storm  this  peace,  after  that  glare  this  coolness. 
The  truth-tellers  had  very  little  love,  it  seems,  of  nature. 
They  used  nature  almost  entirely  as  an  obstacle  to  overcome 
or  as  a  background  to  complete,  not  aesthetically  for  contem- 
plation or  for  any  part  it  might  play  in  the  affairs  of  their 
characters.  The  town,  after  all,  was  their  natural  haunt. 
But  let  us  compare  them  in  more  essential  qualities:  in  their 
treatment  of  people.  There  comes  towards  us  a  girl  tripping 
lightly  and  leaning  on  her  father's  arm: 

.  .  .  'Lucy  Ashton's  exquisitely  beautiful,  yet  somewhat 
girlish  features,  were  formed  to  express  peace  of  mind, 
serenity,  and  indifference  to  the  tinsel  of  worldly  pleasure. 
Her  locks,  which  were  of  shadowy  gold,  divided  on  a  brow 
of  exquisite  whiteness,  like  a  gleam  of  broken  and  pallid 
sunshine  upon  a  hill  of  snow.  The  expression  of  the  coun- 
tenance was  in  the  last  degree  gentle,  soft,  timid  and  femi- 
nine, and  seemed  rather  to  shrink  from  the  most  casual  look 
of  a  stranger  than  to  court  his  admiration.' 

Nobody  could  less  resemble  Moll  Flanders  or  Mrs. 
Proudie.  Lucy  Ashton  is  incapable  of  action  or  of  self- 
control.  The  bull  runs  at  her  and  she  sinks  to  the  ground; 
the  thunder  peals  and  she  faints.  She  falters  out  the  strangest 
little  language  of  ceremony  and  politeness,  '  O  if  you  be  a 
man,  if  you  be  a  gentleman  assist  me  to  find  my  father'.  One 
might  say  that  she  has  no  character  except  the  traditional; 
to  her  father  she  is  filial;  to  her  lover,  modest;  to  the  poor, 
benevolent.  Compared  with  Moll  Flanders,  she  is  a  doll 
with  sawdust  in  her  veins  and  wax  in  her  cheeks.  Yet  we 
have  read  ourselves  into  the  book  and  grow  familiar  with  its 
proportions.  We  come,  at  length,  to  see  that  anything  more 
individual  or  eccentric  or  marked  would  lay  emphasis  where 
we  want  none.  This  tapering  wraith  hovers  over  the  land- 

104 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

scape  and  is  part  of  it.  She  and  Edgar  Ravenswood  are 
needed  to  support  this  romantic  world  with  their  bare 
forms,  to  clasp  it  round  with  that  theme  of  unhappy  love 
which  is  needed  to  hold  the  rest  together.  But  the  world  that 
they  clasp  has  its  own  laws.  It  leaves  out  and  eliminates  no 
less  drastically  than  the  other.  On  the  one  hand,  we  have 
feelings  of  the  utmost  exaltation — love,  hate,  jealousy, 
remorse;  on  the  other  hand,  raciness  and  simplicity  in  the 
extreme.  The  rhetoric  of  the  Ashtons  and  Ravenswoods  is 
completed  by  the  humours  of  peasants  and  cackle  of  village 
women.  The  true  romantic  can  swing  us  from  earth  to  sky; 
and  the  great  master  of  romantic  fiction,  who  is  undoubtedly 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  uses  his  liberty  to  the  full.  At  the  same 
time,  we  retort  upon  this  melancholy  which  he  has  called 
forth,  as  in  the  Bride  of  Lammermoor.  We  laugh  at  ourselves 
for  having  been  so  moved  by  machinery  so  absurd.  How- 
ever, before  we  impute  this  defect  to  romance  itself,  we  must 
consider  whether  it  is  not  Scott's  fault.  This  lazy-minded 
man  was  quite  capable  when  the  cold  fit  was  on  him  of 
filling  a  chapter  or  two  currently,  conventionally,  from  a 
fountain  of  empty,  journalistic  phrases  which,  for  all  that 
they  have  a  charm  of  their  own,  let  the  slackened  attention 
sag  still  further. 

Carelessness  has  never  been  laid  to  the  charge  of  Robert 
Louis  Stevenson.  He  was  careful,  careful  to  a  fault — a  man 
who  combined  most  strangely  boy's  psychology  with  the 
extreme  sophistication  of  an  artist.  Yet,  he  obeyed  no  less 
implicitly  than  Walter  Scott  the  laws  of  romance.  He  lays 
his  scene  in  the  past;  he  is  always  putting  his  characters  to 
the  sword's  point  with  some  desperate  adventure;  he  caps 
his  tragedy  with  homespun  humour.  Nor  can  there  be  any 
doubt  that  his  conscience  and  his  seriousness  as  a  writer  have 
stood  him  in  good  stead.  Take  any  page  of  The  Master  of 
Ballantrae  and  it  still  stands  wear  and  tear;  but  the  fabric  of 
the  Bride  of  Lammermoor  is  full  of  holes  and  patches;  it  is 
scamped,  botched,  hastily  flung  together.  Here,  in  Steven- 
son, romance  is  treated  seriously  and  given  all  the  advan- 
tages of  the  most  refined  literary  art,  with  the  result  that  we 

105 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

are  never  left  to  consider  what  an  absurd  situation  this  is  or 
to  reflect  that  we  have  no  emotion  left  with  which  to  meet 
the  demand  made  upon  us.  We  get,  on  the  contrary,  a  firm, 
credible  story,  which  never  betrays  us  for  a  second,  but  is 
corroborated,  substantiated,  made  good  in  every  detail. 
With  what  precision  and  cunning  a  scene  will  be  made 
visible  to  us  as  if  the  pen  were  a  knife  which  sliced  away  the 
covering  and  left  the  core  bare! 

'  It  was  as  he  said:  there  was  no  breath  stirring;  a  windless 
stricture  of  frost  had  bound  the  air;  and  as  we  went  forth  in 
the  shine  of  the  candles,  the  blackness  was  like  a  roof  over 
our  heads.'  Or,  again:  'All  the  27th  that  rigorous  weather 
endured;  a  stifling  cold;  folk  passing  about  like  smoking 
chimneys;  the  wide  hearth  in  the  hall  piled  high  with  fuel; 
some  of  the  spring  birds  that  had  already  blundered  north 
into  our  neighbourhood  besieging  the  windows  of  the  house 
or  trotting  on  the  frozen  turf  like  things  distracted.' 

'A  windless  stricture  of  frost  .  .  .  folk  passing  about  like 
smoking  chimneys' — one  may  search  the  Waverley  Novels 
in  vain  for  such  close  writing  as  this.  Separately,  these 
descriptions  are  lovely  and  brilliant.  The  fault  lies  elsewhere, 
in  the  whole  of  which  they  are  a  part.  For  in  those  critical 
minutes  which  decide  a  book's  fate,  when  it  is  finished  and 
the  book  swims  up  complete  in  the  mind  and  lets  us  look  at 
it,  something  seems  lacking.  Perhaps  it  is  that  the  detail 
sticks  out  too  prominently.  The  mind  is  caught  up  by  this 
fine  passage  of  description,  by  that  curious  exactitude  of 
phrase;  but  the  rhythm  and  sweep  of  emotion  which  the 
story  has  started  in  us  are  denied  satisfaction.  We  are 
plucked  back  when  we  should  be  swinging  free.  Our  atten- 
tion is  caught  by  some  knot  of  ribbon  or  refinement  of 
tracery  when  in  fact  we  desire  only  a  bare  body  against  the 
sky. 

Scott  repels  our  taste  in  a  thousand  ways.  But  the  crisis, 
that  is  the  point  where  the  accent  falls  and  shapes  the  book 
under  it,  is  right.  Slouching,  careless  as  he  is,  he  will  at  the 
critical  moment  pull  himself  together  and  strike  the  one 
stroke  needed,  the  stroke  which  gives  the  book  its  vividness 

106 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

in  memory.  Lucy  sits  gibbering  'couched  like  a  hare  upon 
its  form'.  'So,  you  have  ta'en  up  your  bonnie  bridegroom?' 
she  says,  dropping  her  fine  lady's  mincing  speech  for  the 
vernacular.  Ravenswood  sinks  beneath  the  quicksands.  'One 
only  vestige  of  his  fate  appeared.  A  large  sable  feather  had 
been  detached  from  his  hat,  and  the  rippling  waves  of  the 
rising  tide  wafted  it  to  Caleb's  feet.  The  old  man  took  it  up, 
dried  it,  and  placed  it  in  his  bosom.'  At  both  these  points 
the  writer's  hand  is  on  the  book  and  it  falls  from  him  shaped. 
But  in  The  Master  of  Ballantrae,  though  each  detail  is  right 
and  wrought  so  as  separately  to  move  our  highest  admira- 
tion, there  is  no  such  final  consummation.  What  should  have 
gone  to  help  it  seems,  in  retrospect,  to  stand  apart  from  it. 
We  remember  the  detail,  but  not  the  whole.  Lord  Durisdeer 
and  the  Master  die  together  but  we  scarcely  notice  it.  Our 
attention  has  been  frittered  away  elsewhere. 

It  would  seem  that  the  romantic  spirit  is  an  exacting  one; 
if  it  sees  a  man  crossing  the  road  in  the  lamplight  and  then 
lost  in  the  gloom  of  the  evening,  it  at  once  dictates  what 
course  the  writer  must  pursue.  We  do  not  wish,  it  will  say, 
to  know  much  about  him.  We  desire  that  he  shall  express 
our  capacity  for  being  noble  and  adventurous;  that  he  shall 
dwell  among  wild  places  and  suffer  the  extremes  of  fortune; 
that  he  be  endowed  with  youth  and  distinction  and  allied 
with  moors,  winds,  and  wild  birds.  He  is,  moreover,  to  be  a 
lover,  not  in  a  minute,  introspective  way,  but  largely  and  in 
outline.  His  feelings  must  be  part  of  the  landscape;  the 
shallow  browns  and  blues  of  distant  woods  and  harvest 
fields  are  to  enter  into  them;  a  tower,  perhaps,  and  a  castle 
where  the  snapdragon  flowers.  Above  all,  the  romantic 
spirit  demands  here  a  crisis  and  there  a  crisis  in  which  the 
wave  that  has  swollen  in  the  breast  shall  break.  Such  feelings 
Scott  gratifies  more  completely  than  Stevenson,  though  with 
enough  qualification  to  make  us  pursue  the  question  of 
romance  and  its  scope  and  its  limitations  a  little  further. 
Perhaps  here  it  might  be  interesting  to  read  The  Mysteries  of 
Udolpho. 

The  Mysteries  of  Udolpho  have  been  so  much  laughed  at  as 

107 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

the  type  of  Gothic  absurdity  that  it  is  difficult  to  come  at  the 
book  with  a  fresh  eye.  We  come,  expecting  to  ridicule.  Then, 
when  we  find  beauty,  as  we  do,  we  go  to  the  other  extreme 
and  rhapsodize.  But  the  beauty  and  the  absurdity  of 
romance  are  both  present  and  the  book  is  a  good  test  of  the 
romantic  attitude,  since  Mrs.  Radcliffe  pushes  the  liberties 
of  romance  to  the  extreme.  Where  Scott  will  go  back  a 
hundred  years  to  get  the  effect  of  distance,  Mrs.  Radcliffe 
will  go  back  three  hundred.  With  one  stroke,  she  frees  her- 
self from  a  host  of  disagreeables  and  enjoys  her  freedom 
lavishly. 

As  a  novelist,  it  is  her  desire  to  describe  scenery  and  it  is 
there  that  her  great  gift  lies.  Like  every  true  writer,  she 
shoulders  her  way  past  every  obstacle  to  her  goal.  She  brings 
us  into  a  huge,  empty,  airy  world.  A  few  ladies  and  gentle- 
men, who  are  purely  eighteenth  century  in  mind,  manner, 
and  speech,  wander  about  in  vast  champaigns,  listen  to 
nightingales  singing  amorously  in  midnight  woods;  see  the 
sun  set  over  the  lagoon  of  Venice;  and  watch  the  distant 
Alps  turn  pink  and  blue  from  the  turrets  of  an  Italian  castle. 
These  people,  when  they  are  well  born,  are  of  the  same 
blood  as  Scott's  gentry;  attenuated  and  formal  silhouettes 
who  have  the  same  curious  power  of  being  in  themselves 
negligible  and  insipid  but  of  merging  harmoniously  in  the 
design. 

Again,  we  feel  the  force  which  the  romantic  acquires  by 
obliterating  facts.  With  the  sinking  of  the  lights,  the  solidity 
of  the  foreground  disappears,  other  shapes  become  apparent 
and  other  senses  are  roused.  We  become  aware  of  the  danger 
and  darkness  of  our  existence;  comfortable  reality  has 
proved  itself  a  phantom  too.  Outside  our  little  shelter  we 
hear  the  wind  raging  and  the  waves  breaking.  In  this  mood 
our  senses  are  strained  and  apprehensive.  Noises  are  audible 
which  we  should  not  hear  normally.  Curtains  rustle.  Some- 
thing in  the  semi-darkness  seems  to  move.  Is  it  alive?  And 
what  is  it?  And  what  is  it  seeking  here?  Mrs.  Radcliffe  suc- 
ceeds in  making  us  feel  all  this,  largely  because  she  is  able 
to  make  us  aware  of  the  landscape  and,  thus,  induces  a 

1 08 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

detached  mood  favourable  to  romance;  but  in  her,  more 
plainly  than  in  Scott  or  Stevenson,  the  absurdity  is  evident, 
the  wheels  of  the  machine  are  visible  and  the  grinding  is 
heard.  She  lets  us  see  more  clearly  than  they  do  what 
demands  the  romantic  writer  makes  upon  us. 

Both  Scott  and  Stevenson,  with  the  true  instinct  of  the 
imagination,  introduced  rustic  comedy  and  broad  Scots 
dialect.  It  is  in  that  direction,  as  they  rightly  divined,  that 
the  mind  will  unbend  when  it  relaxes.  Mrs.  Radcliffe,  on 
the  other  hand,  having  climbed  to  the  top  of  her  pinnacle, 
finds  it  impossible  to  come  down.  She  tries  to  solace  us  with 
comic  passages,  put  naturally  into  the  mouths  of  Annette 
and  Ludovico  who  are  servants.  But  the  break  is  too  steep 
for  her  limited  and  ladylike  mind  and  she  pieces  out  her 
high  moments  and  her  beautiful  atmosphere  with  a  pale 
reflection  of  romance  which  is  more  tedious  than  any 
ribaldry.  Mysteries  abound.  Murdered  bodies  multiply; 
but  she  is  incapable  of  creating  the  emotion  to  feel  them  by, 
with  the  result  that  they  lie  there,  unbelieved  in;  hence, 
ridiculous.  The  veil  is  drawn;  there  is  the  concealed  figure; 
there  is  the  decayed  face;  there  are  the  writhing  worms — 
and  we  laugh. 

Directly  the  power  which  lives  in  a  book  sinks,  the  whole 
fabric  of  the  book,  its  sentences,  the  length  and  shape  of 
them,  its  inflections,  its  mannerisms,  all  that  it  wore  proudly 
and  naturally  under  the  impulse  of  a  true  emotion  become 
stale,  forced,  unappetizing.  Mrs.  Radcliffe  slips  limply  into 
the  faded  Scott  manner  and  reels  off  page  after  page  in  a 
style  illustrated  by  this  example: 

Emily,  who  had  always  endeavoured  to  regulate  her 
conduct  by  the  nicest  laws,  and  whose  mind  was  finely 
sensible,  not  only  of  what  is  just  in  morals,  but  of  whatever 
is  beautiful  in  the  feminine  character,  was  shocked  by 
these  words. 

And  so  it  slips  along  and  so  we  sink  and  drown  in  the  pale 
tide.  Nevertheless,  Udolpho  passes  this  test:  it  gives  us  an 
emotion  which  is  both  distinct  and  unique,  however  high  or 
low  we  rate  the  emotion  itself. 

109 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

If  we  see  now  where  the  danger  of  romance  lies:  how 
difficult  the  mood  is  to  sustain;  how  it  needs  the  relief  of 
comedy;  how  the  very  distance  from  common  human 
experience  and  strangeness  of  its  elements  become  ridicu- 
lous— if  we  see  these  things,  we  see  also  that  these  emotions 
are  in  themselves  priceless  jewels.  The  romantic  novel 
realizes  for  us  an  emotion  which  is  deep  and  genuine.  Scott, 
Stevenson,  Mrs.  Radcliffe,  all  in  their  different  ways,  unveil 
another  country  of  the  land  of  fiction;  and  it  is  not  the  least 
proof  of  their  power  that  they  breed  in  us  a  keen  desire  for 
something  different. 


The  Character- Mongers  and  Comedians 

The  novels  which  make  us  live  imaginatively,  with  the 
whole  of  the  body  as  well  as  the  mind,  produce  in  us  the 
physical  sensations  of  heat  and  cold,  noise  and  silence,  one 
reason  perhaps  why  we  desire  change  and  why  our  reactions 
to  them  vary  so  much  at  different  times.  Only,  of  course,  the 
change  must  not  be  violent.  It  is  rather  that  we  need  a  new 
scene;  a  return  to  human  faces;  a  sense  of  walls  and  towns 
about  us,  with  their  lights  and  their  characters  after  the 
silence  of  the  wind-blown  heath. 

After  reading  the  romances  of  Scott  and  Stevenson  and 
Mrs.  Radcliffe,  our  eyes  seem  stretched,  their  sight  a  little 
blurred,  as  if  they  had  been  gazing  into  the  distance  and  it 
would  be  a  relief  to  turn  for  contrast  to  a  strongly  marked 
human  face,  to  characters  of  extravagant  force  and  character 
in  keeping  with  our  romantic  mood.  Such  figures  are  most 
easily  to  be  found  in  Dickens,  of  course,  and  particularly  in 
Bleak  House  where,  as  Dickens  said,  'I  have  purposely  dwelt 
upon  the  romantic  side  of  familiar  things'.  They  are  found 
there  with  peculiar  aptness— for  if  the  characters  satisfy  us 
by  their  eccentricity  and  vigour,  London  and  the  landscape 
of  the  Dedlocks'  place  at  Chesney  Wold  are  in  the  mood  of 
the  moor,  only  more  luridly  lit  up  and  more  sharply  dark 
and  bright  because  in  Dickens  the  character-making  power 

1 10 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

is  so  prodigious  that  the  very  houses  and  streets  and  fields 
are  strongly  featured  in  sympathy  with  the  people.  The 
character-making  power  is  so  prodigious,  indeed,  that  it  has 
little  need  to  make  use  of  observation,  and  a  great  part  of 
the  delight  of  Dickens  lies  in  the  sense  we  have  of  wantoning 
with  human  beings  twice  or  ten  times  their  natural  size  of 
smallness  who  retain  only  enough  human  likeness  to  make 
us  refer  their  feelings  very  broadly,  not  to  our  own,  but  to 
those  of  odd  figures  seen  casually  through  the  half-opened 
doors  of  public  houses,  lounging  on  quays,  slinking  mys- 
teriously down  little  alleys  which  lie  about  Holborn  and  the 
Law  Courts.  We  enter  at  once  into  the  spirit  of  exaggeration. 

Who,  in  the  course  of  a  long  life,  has  met  Mr.  Chadband 
or  Mr.  Turveydrop  or  Miss  Elite?  Who  has  met  anybody 
who,  whatever  the  day  of  the  occasion,  can  be  trusted  to  say 
the  same  phrase,  to  repeat  the  same  action?  This  perpetual 
repetition  has,  of  course,  an  enormous  power  to  drive  these 
characters  home,  to  stabilize  them.  Mr.  Vholes,  with  his 
three  dear  girls  at  home  and  his  father  to  support  in  the  Vale 
of  Taunton,  Mrs.  Jellyby  and  the  natives  of  Borrioboola- 
Gha,  Mr.  Turveydrop  and  his  deportment,  all  serve  as 
stationary  points  in  the  flow  and  confusion  of  the  narrative; 
they  have  a  decorative  effect  as  if  they  were  gargoyles 
carved,  motionless,  at  the  corner  of  a  composition.  Wherever 
we  may  have  wandered,  we  shall  come  back  and  find  them 
there.  They  uphold  the  extraordinary  intricacy  of  the  plot 
in  whose  confusion  we  are  often  sunk  up  to  our  lips.  For  it  is 
impossible  to  imagine  that  the  Jellybys  and  the  Turveydrops 
are  ever  affected  by  human  emotions  or  that  their  habitual 
routine  is  disturbed  by  the  astonishing  events  which  blow 
through  the  pages  of  the  book,  from  so  many  quarters  at  the 
same  time.  Thus  they  have  a  force,  a  sublimity,  which  the 
slighter  and  more  idiosyncratic  characters  miss. 

After  all,  is  not  life  itself,  with  its  coincidences  and  its  con- 
volutions, astonishingly  queer?  'What  connexion,'  Dickens 
himself  exclaims,  'can  there  have  been  between  many 
people  in  the  innumerable  histories  of  this  world,  who,  from 
opposite  sides  of  great  gulfs,  have,  nevertheless,  been  very 

ii  i 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

curiously  brought  together!'  One  after  another  his  char- 
acters come  into  being,  called  into  existence  by  an  eye 
which  has  only  to  glance  into  a  room  to  take  in  every  object, 
human  or  inanimate,  that  is  there;  by  an  eye  which  sees 
once  and  for  all;  which  snatches  at  a  woman's  steel  hair- 
curlers,  a  pair  of  red-rimmed  eyes,  a  white  scar  and  makes 
them  somehow  reveal  the  essence  of  a  character;  an  eye 
gluttonous,  restless,  insatiable,  creating  more  than  it  can 
use.  Thus,  the  prevailing  impression  is  one  of  movement,  of 
the  endless  ebb  and  flow  of  life  round  one  or  two  stationary 
points. 

Often  we  cease  to  worry  about  the  plot  and  wander  off 
down  some  strange  avenue  of  suggestion  stirred  in  this  vast 
and  mobile  world  by  a  casual  movement,  a  word,  a  glance. 
'Still,  very  steadfastly  and  quietly  walking  towards  it,  a 
peaceful  figure,  too,  in  the  landscape,  went  Mademoiselle 
Hortense,  shoeless,  through  the  wet  grass.'  She  goes  and 
she  leaves  a  strange  wake  of  emotion  behind  her.  Or,  again, 
a  door  is  flung  open  in  the  misty  purlieus  of  London;  there 
is  Mr.  Tulkinghorn's  friend,  who  appears  once  and  once 
only — 'a  man  of  the  same  mould  and  a  lawyer  too,  who 
lived  the  same  kind  of  life  until  he  was  seventy-five  years 
old,  and  then,  suddenly  conceiving  (as  it  is  supposed)  an 
impression  that  it  was  too  monotonous,  gave  his  gold  watch 
to  his  hairdresser  one  summer  evening,  and  walked  leisurely 
home  to  the  Temple,  and  hanged  himself. 

This  sense  that  the  meaning  goes  on  after  the  words  are 
spoken,  that  doors  open  and  let  us  look  through  them,  is  full 
of  romance.  But  romance  in  Dickens  is  impressed  on  us 
through  characters,  through  extreme  types  of  human  beings, 
not  through  castles  or  banners,  not  through  the  violence  of 
action,  adventure,  or  nature.  Human  faces,  scowling,  grin- 
ning, malignant,  benevolent,  are  projected  at  us  from  every 
corner.     Everything  is  unmitigated  and  extreme. 

But  at  last,  among  all  these  characters  who  are  so  static 
and  so  extreme,  we  come  upon  one — Inspector  Bucket,  the 
detective — which  is  not,  as  the  others  are,  of  a  piece,  but 
made  up  of  contrasts  and  discrepancies.  The  romantic  power 

112 


PHASES     OF     FICTION 

of  the  single-piece  character  is  lost.  For  the  character  is  no 
longer  fixed  and  part  of  the  design;  it  is  in  itself  of  interest. 
Its  movements  and  changes  compel  us  to  watch  it.  We  try 
to  understand  this  many-sided  man  who  has  brushed  his 
hair,  which  is  thin,  with  a  wet  brush;  who  has  his  bombastic, 
official  side,  yet  with  it  combines,  as  we  see  when  the  mine 
sprung,  ability,  conscience,  even  compassion — for  all  these 
qualities  are  displayed  by  turns  in  the  astonishingly  vivid 
account  of  the  drive  through  the  night  and  the  storm,  in 
pursuit  of  Esther's  mother.  If  much  more  were  added,  so 
that  Inspector  Bucket  drew  more  of  our  attention  to  him 
and  diverted  it  from  the  story,  we  should  begin  with  his  new 
scale  of  values  in  our  eyes  to  find  the  glaring  opposites  in 
use  elsewhere  too  violent  to  be  tolerable.  But  Dickens  com- 
mitted no  such  sin  against  his  readers.  He  uses  this  clear-cut, 
many-faced  figure  to  sharpen  his  final  scenes  and,  then, 
letting  Inspector  Bucket  of  the  detective  force  disappear, 
gathers  the  loose  folds  of  the  story  into  one  prodigious  armful 
and  makes  an  end.  But  he  has  sharpened  our  curiosity  and 
made  us  dissatisfied  with  the  limitations  and  even  with  the 
exuberance  of  his  genius.  The  scene  becomes  too  elastic,  too 
voluminous,  too  cloud-like  in  its  contours.  The  very  abund- 
ance of  it  tires  us,  as  well  as  the  impossibility  of  holding  it  all 
together.  We  are  always  straying  down  bypaths  and  into 
alleys  where  we  lose  our  way  and  cannot  remember  where 
we  were  going. 

Though  the  heart  of  Dickens  burned  with  indignation  for 
public  wrongs,  he  lacked  sensitiveness  privately,  so  that  his 
attempts  at  intimacy  failed.  His  great  figures  are  on  too 
large  a  scale  to  fit  nicely  into  each  other.  They  do  not  inter- 
lock. They  need  company  to  show  them  off  and  action  to 
bring  out  their  humours.  They  are  often  out  of  touch  with 
each  other.  In  Tolstoy,  in  the  scenes  between  Princess  Marya 
and  her  father,  the  old  Prince,  the  pressure  of  character 
upon  character  is  never  relaxed.  The  tension  is  perpetual, 
every  nerve  in  the  character  is  alive.  It  may  be  for  this 
reason  that  Tolstoy  is  the  greatest  of  novelists.  In  Dickens 
the  characters  are  impressive  in  themselves  but  not  in  their 

"3 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

personal  relations.  Often,  indeed,  when  they  talk  to  each 
other  they  are  vapid  in  the  extreme  or  sentimental  beyond 
belief.  One  thinks  of  them  as  independent,  existing  forever, 
unchanged,  like  monoliths  looking  up  into  the  sky.  So  it  is 
that  we  begin  to  want  something  smaller,  more  intense, 
more  intricate.  Dickens  has,  himself,  given  us  a  taste  of  the 
pleasure  we  derive  from  looking  curiously  and  intently  into 
another  character.  He  has  made  us  instinctively  reduce  the 
size  of  the  scene  in  proportion  to  the  figure  of  a  normal  man, 
and  now  we  seek  this  intensification,  this  reduction,  carried 
out  more  perfectly  and  more  completely,  we  shall  find,  in 
the  novels  of  Jane  Austen. 

At  once,  when  we  open  Pride  and  Prejudice,  we  are  aware 
that  the  sentence  has  taken  on  a  different  character.  Dickens, 
of  course,  at  full  stride  is  as  free-paced  and  far-stretched  as 
possible.  But  in  comparison  with  this  nervous  style,  how 
large-limbed  and  how  loose.  The  sentence  here  runs  like  a 
knife,  in  and  out,  cutting  a  shape  clear.  It  is  done  in  a 
drawing-room.  It  is  done  by  the  use  of  dialogue.  Half  a 
dozen  people  come  together  after  dinner  and  begin,  as  they 
so  well  might,  to  discuss  letter-writing.  Mr.  Darcy  writes 
slowly  and  'studies  too  much  for  words  of  four  syllables'. 
Mr.  Bingley,  on  the  other  hand  (for  it  is  necessary  that  we 
should  get  to  know  them  both  and  they  can  be  quickest 
shown  if  they  are  opposed)  '  leaves  out  half  his  words  and 
blots  the  rest'.  But  such  is  only  the  first  rough  shaping  that 
gives  the  outline  of  the  face.  We  go  on  to  define  and  dis- 
tinguish. Bingley,  says  Darcy,  is  really  boasting,  when  he 
calls  himself  a  careless  letter-writer  because  he  thinks  the 
defect  interesting.  It  was  a  boast  when  he  told  Mrs.  Bennet 
that  if  he  left  Nethfield  he  would  be  gone  in  five  minutes. 
And  this  little  passage  of  analysis  on  Darcy's  part,  besides 
proving  his  astuteness  and  his  cool  observant  temper,  rouses 
Bingley  to  show  us  a  vivacious  picture  of  Darcy  at  home.  '  I 
don't  know  a  more  awful  object  than  Darcy,  on  particular 
occasions,  and  in  particular  places;  at  his  own  house  especi- 
ally, and  of  a  Sunday  evening,  when  he  has  nothing  to  do.' 

So,  by  means  of  perfectly  natural  question  and  answer, 

1 14 


PHASES     OF     FICTION 

everyone  is  defined  and,  as  they  talk,  they  become  not  only 
more  clearly  seen,  but  each  stroke  of  the  dialogue  brings 
them  together  or  moves  them  apart,  so  that  the  group  is  no 
longer  casual  but  interlocked.  The  talk  is  not  mere  talk;  it 
has  an  emotional  intensity  which  gives  it  more  than  bril- 
liance. Light,  landscape — everything  that  lies  outside  the 
drawing-room  is  arranged  to  illumine  it.  Distances  are  made 
exact;  arrangements  accurate.  It  is  one  mile  from  Meryton; 
it  is  Sunday  and  not  Monday.  We  want  all  suspicions  and 
questions  laid  at  rest.  It  is  necessary  that  the  characters 
should  lie  before  us  in  as  clear  and  quiet  a  light  as  possible 
since  every  flicker  and  tremor  is  to  be  observed.  Nothing 
happens,  as  things  so  often  happen  in  Dickens,  for  its  own 
oddity  or  curiosity  but  with  relation  to  something  else.  No 
avenues  of  suggestion  are  opened  up,  no  doors  are  suddenly 
flung  wide;  the  ropes  which  tighten  the  structure,  since  they 
are  all  rooted  in  the  heart,  are  so  held  firmly  and  tightly. 
For,  in  order  to  develop  personal  relations  to  the  utmost,  it 
is  important  to  keep  out  of  the  range  of  the  abstract,  the 
impersonal;  and  to  suggest  that  there  is  anything  that  lies 
outside  men  and  women  would  be  to  cast  the  shadow  of 
doubt  upon  the  comedy  of  their  relationships  and  its  suffi- 
ciency. So  with  edged  phrases  where  often  one  word,  set 
against  the  current  of  the  phrase,  serves  to  fledge  it  (thus: 
'and  whenever  any  of  the  cottagers  were  disposed  to  be 
quarrelsome,  discontented,  or  too  poor'')  we  go  down  to  the 
depths,  for  deep  they  are,  for  all  their  clarity. 

But  personal  relations  have  limits,  as  Jane  Austen  seems 
to  realize  by  stressing  their  comedy.  Everything,  she  seems 
to  say,  has,  if  we  could  discover  it,  a  reasonable  summing  up; 
and  it  is  extremely  amusing  and  interesting  to  see  the  efforts 
of  people  to  upset  the  reasonable  order,  defeated  as  they 
invariably  are.  But  if,  complaining  of  the  lack  of  poetry  or 
the  lack  of  tragedy,  we  are  about  to  frame  the  familiar  state- 
ment that  this  is  a  world  which  is  too  small  to  satisfy  us,  a 
prosaic  world,  a  world  of  inches  and  blades  of  grass,  we  are 
brought  to  a  pause  by  another  impression  which  requires  a 
moment  further  of  analysis.  Among  all  the  elements  which 

ii5 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

play  upon  us  in  reading  fiction  there  has  always  been, 
though  in  different  degrees,  some  voice,  accent,  or  tem- 
perament clearly  heard,  though  behind  the  scenes  of  the 
book.  'Trollope,  the  novelist,  a  big,  blustering,  spectacled, 
loud-voiced,  hunting  man';  Scott,  the  ruined,  country 
gentleman,  whose  very  pigs  trotted  after  him,  so  gracious 
was  the  sound  of  his  voice — both  come  to  us  with  the  ges- 
ture of  hosts,  welcoming  us,  and  we  fall  under  the  spell  of 
their  charm  or  the  interest  of  their  characters. 

We  cannot  say  this  of  Jane  Austen,  and  her  absence  has 
the  effect  of  making  us  detached  from  her  work  and  of 
giving  it,  for  all  its  sparkle  and  animation,  a  certain  aloof- 
ness and  completeness.  Her  genius  compelled  her  to  absent 
herself.  So  truthful,  so  clear,  so  sane  a  vision  would  not 
tolerate  distraction,  even  if  it  came  from  her  own  claims, 
nor  allow  the  actual  experience  of  a  transitory  woman  to 
colour  what  should  be  unstained  by  personality.  For  this 
reason,  then,  though  we  may  be  less  swayed  by  her,  we  are 
less  dissatisfied.  It  may  be  the  very  idiosyncrasy  of  a  writer 
that  tires  us  of  him.  Jane  Austen,  who  has  so  little  that  is 
peculiar,  does  not  tire  us,  nor  does  she  breed  in  us  a  desire 
for  those  writers  whose  method  and  style  differ  altogether 
from  hers.  Thus,  instead  of  being  urged  as  the  last  page  is 
finished  to  start  in  search  of  something  that  contrasts  and 
completes,  we  pause  when  we  have  read  Pride  and  Prejudice. 

The  pause  is  the  result  of  a  satisfaction  which  turns  our 
minds  back  upon  what  we  have  just  read,  rather  than  for- 
ward to  something  fresh.  Satisfaction  is,  by  its  nature, 
removed  from  analysis,  for  the  quality  which  satisfies  us  is 
the  sum  of  many  different  parts,  so  that  if  we  begin  praising 
Pride  and  Prejudice  for  the  qualities  that  compose  it — its  wit, 
its  truth,  its  profound  comic  power — we  shall  still  not  praise 
it  for  the  quality  which  is  the  sum  of  all  these.  At  this  point, 
then,  the  mind,  brought  to  bay,  escapes  the  dilemma  and 
has  recourse  to  images.  We  compare  Pride  and  Prejudice  to 
something  else  because,  since  satisfaction  can  be  defined  no 
further,  all  the  mind  can  do  is  to  make  a  likeness  of  the 
thing,  and,  by  giving  it  another  shape,  cherish  the  illusion 

116 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

that  it  is  explaining  it,  whereas  it  is,  in  fact,  only  looking  at 
it  afresh.  To  say  that  Pride  and  Prejudice  is  like  a  shell,  a  gem, 
a  crystal,  whatever  image  we  may  choose,  is  to  see  the  same 
thing  under  a  different  guise.  Yet,  perhaps,  if  we  compare 
Pride  and  Prejudice  to  something  concrete,  it  is  because  we  are 
trying  to  express  the  sense  we  have  in  other  novels  imper- 
fectly, here  with  distinctness,  of  a  quality  which  is  not  in  the 
story  but  above  it,  not  in  the  things  themselves  but  in  their 
arrangement. 

Pride  and  Prejudice,  one  says,  has  form;  Bleak  House  has  not. 
The  eye  (so  active  always  in  fiction)  gives  its  own  interpreta- 
tion of  impressions  that  the  mind  has  been  receiving  in 
different  terms.  The  mind  has  been  conscious  in  Pride  and 
Prejudice  that  things  are  said,  for  all  their  naturalness,  with  a 
purpose;  one  emotion  has  been  contrasted  with  another; 
one  scene  has  been  short,  the  next  long;  so  that  all  the  time, 
instead  of  reading  at  random,  without  control,  snatching  at 
this  and  that,  stressing  one  thing  or  another,  as  the  mood 
takes  us,  we  have  been  aware  of  check  and  stimulus,  of 
spectral  architecture  built  up  behind  the  animation  and 
variety  of  the  scene.  It  is  a  quality  so  precise  it  is  not  to  be 
found  either  in  what  is  said  or  in  what  is  done;  that  is,  it 
escapes  analysis.  It  is  a  quality,  too,  that  is  much  at  the 
mercy  of  fiction.  Its  control  is  invariably  weak  there,  much 
weaker  than  in  poetry  or  in  drama  because  fiction  runs  so 
close  to  life  the  two  are  always  coming  into  collison.  That 
this  architectural  quality  can  be  possessed  by  a  novelist, 
Jane  Austen  proves.  And  she  proves,  too,  that  far  from 
chilling  the  interest  or  withdrawing  the  attention  from  the 
characters,  it  seems  on  the  contrary  to  focus  it  and  add  an 
extra  pleasure  to  the  book,  a  significance.  It  makes  it  seem 
that  here  is  something  good  in  itself,  quite  apart  from  our 
personal  feelings. 

Not  to  seek  contrast  but  to  start  afresh — this  is  the  impulse 
which  urges  us  on  after  finishing  Pride  and  Prejudice.  We  must 
make  a  fresh  start  altogether.  Personal  relations,  we  recall, 
have  limits.  In  order  to  keep  their  edges  sharp,  the  mys- 
terious, the  unknown,  the  accidental,  the  strange  subside; 

117 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

their  intervention  would  be  confusing  and  distressing.  The 
writer  adopts  an  ironic  attitude  to  her  creatures,  because 
she  has  denied  them  so  many  adventures  and  experiences. 
A  suitable  marriage  is,  after  all,  the  upshot  of  all  this 
coming  together  and  drawing  apart.  A  world  which  so  often 
ends  in  a  suitable  marriage  is  not  a  world  to  wring  one's 
hands  over.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  a  world  about  which  we 
can  be  sarcastic;  into  which  we  can  peer  endlessly,  as  we  fit 
the  jagged  pieces  one  into  another.  Thus,  it  is  possible  to 
ask  not  that  her  world  shall  be  improved  or  altered  (that 
our  satisfaction  forbids)  but  that  another  shall  be  struck  oft', 
whose  constitution  shall  be  different  and  shall  allow  of  the 
other  relations.  People's  relations  shall  be  with  God  or 
nature.  They  shall  think.  They  shall  sit,  like  Dorothea 
Casaubon  in  Middlemarch,  drawing  plans  for  other  people's 
houses;  they  shall  suffer  like  Gissing's  characters  in  solitude; 
they  shall  be  alone.  Pride  and  Prejudice,  because  it  has  such 
integrity  of  its  own,  never  for  an  instant  encroaches  on  other 
provinces,  and,  thus,  leaves  them  more  clearly  defined. 

Nothing  could  be  more  complete  than  the  difference 
between  Pride  and  Prejudice  and  Silas  Marner.  Between  us  and 
the  scene  which  was  so  near,  so  distinct,  is  now  cast  a 
shadow.  Something  intervenes.  The  character  of  Silas 
Marner  is  removed  from  us.  It  is  held  in  relation  to  other 
men  and  his  life  compared  with  human  life.  This  comparison 
is  perpetually  made  and  illustrated  by  somebody  not  implicit 
in  the  book  but  inside  it,  somebody  who  at  once  reveals 
herself  as  'I',  so  that  there  can  be  no  doubt  from  the  first 
that  we  are  not  going  to  get  the  relations  of  people  together, 
but  the  spectacle  of  life  so  far  as  '  I '  can  show  it  to  us.  '  I ' 
will  do  my  best  to  illumine  these  particular  examples  of  men 
and  women  with  all  the  knowledge,  all  the  reflections  that 
'  I '  can  offer  you. 

'  I ',  we  at  once  perceive,  has  access  to  many  more  experi- 
ences and  reflections  than  can  have  come  the  way  of  the 
rustics  themselves.  She  discovers  what  a  simple  weaver's 
emotions  on  leaving  his  native  village  are,  by  comparing 
them  with  those  of  other  people.  '  People  whose  lives  have 

118 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

been  made  various  by  learning,  sometimes  find  it  hard  to 
keep  a  fast  hold  on  their  habitual  views  of  life,  on  their  faith 
in  the  Invisible.  .  .  .'  It  is  the  observer  speaking  and  we  are 
at  once  in  communication  with  a  grave  mind — a  mind 
which  it  is  part  of  our  business  to  understand.  This,  of  course, 
darkens  and  thickens  the  atmosphere,  for  we  see  through  so 
many  temperaments;  so  many  side-lights  from  knowledge, 
from  reflection,  play  upon  what  we  see;  often,  even  as  we  are 
watching  the  weaver,  our  minds  circle  round  him  and  we 
observe  him  with  an  amusement,  compassion,  or  interest 
which  it  is  impossible  that  he  should  feel  himself. 

Raveloe  is  not  simply  a  town  like  Meryton  now  in  exist- 
ence with  certain  shops  and  assembly  room;  it  has  a  past  and 
therefore  the  present  becomes  fleeting,  and  we  enjoy,  among 
other  things,  the  feeling  that  this  is  a  world  in  process  of 
change  and  decay,  whose  charm  is  due  partly  to  the  fact  that 
it  is  past.  Perhaps  we  compare  it  in  our  own  minds  with  the 
England  of  to-day  and  the  Napoleonic  wars  with  those  of 
our  own  time.  All  this,  if  it  serves  to  enlarge  the  horizon,  also 
makes  the  village  and  the  people  in  it  who  are  placed  against 
so  wide  a  view  smaller  and  their  impact  on  each  other  less 
sharp.  The  novelist  who  believes  that  personal  relations  are 
enough,  intensifies  them  and  sharpens  them  and  devotes  his 
power  to  their  investigation.  But  if  the  end  of  life  is  not  to 
meet,  to  part,  to  love,  to  laugh,  if  we  are  at  the  mercy  of 
other  forces,  some  of  them  unknown,  all  of  them  beyond  our 
power,  the  urgency  of  these  meetings  and  partings  is  blurred 
and  lessened.  The  edges  of  the  coming  together  are  blunted 
and  the  comedy  tends  to  widen  itself  into  a  larger  sphere 
and  so  to  modulate  into  something  melancholy,  tolerant, 
and  perhaps  resigned.  George  Eliot  has  removed  herself  too 
far  from  her  characters  to  dissect  them  keenly  or  finely,  but 
she  has  gained  the  use  of  her  own  mind  upon  these  same 
characters.  Jane  Austen  went  in  and  out  of  her  people's 
minds  like  the  blood  in  their  veins. 

George  Eliot  has  kept  the  engine  of  her  clumsy  and 
powerful  mind  at  her  own  disposal.  She  can  use  it,  when 
she  has  created  enough  matter  to  use  it  upon,  freely.  She  can 

**9 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

stop  at  any  moment  to  reason  out  the  motives  of  the  mind 
that  has  created  it.  When  Silas  Marner  discovers  that  his 
gold  has  been  stolen,  he  has  recourse  to  '  that  sort  of  refuge 
which  always  comes  with  the  prostration  of  thought  under 
an  overpowering  passion;  it  was  that  expectation  of  impos- 
sibilities, that  belief  in  contradictory  images,  which  is  still 
distinct  from  madness,  because  it  is  capable  of  being  dissi- 
pated by  the  external  fact'.  Such  analysis  is  unthinkable  in 
Dickens  or  in  Jane  Austen.  But  it  adds  something  to  the 
character  which  the  character  lacked  before.  It  makes  us 
feel  not  only  that  the  working  of  the  mind  is  interesting  but 
that  we  shall  get  a  much  truer  and  subtler  understanding  of 
what  is  actually  said  and  done  if  we  so  observe  it.  We  shall 
perceive  that  often  an  action  has  only  a  slight  relation  to  a 
feeling  and,  thus,  that  the  truth-tellers,  who  are  content  to 
record  accurately  what  is  said  and  done  are  often  ludicrously 
deceived  and  out  in  their  estimate.  In  other  directions  there 
are  changes.  The  use  of  dialogue  is  limited;  for  people  can 
say  very  little  directly.  Much  more  can  be  said  for  them  or 
about  them  by  the  writer  himself.  Then,  the  writer's  mind, 
his  knowledge,  his  skill,  not  merely  the  colour  of  his  tem- 
perament, become  means  for  bringing  out  the  disposition 
of  the  character  and  also  for  relating  it  to  other  times  and 
places.  There  is  thus  revealed  underneath  a  state  of  mind 
which  often  runs  counter  to  the  action  and  the  speech. 

It  is  in  this  direction  that  George  Eliot  turns  her  char- 
acters and  her  scenes.  Shadows  checker  them.  All  sorts  of 
influences  of  history,  or  time,  or  reflection  play  upon  them. 
If  we  consult  our  own  difficult  and  mixed  emotions  as  we 
read,  it  becomes  clear  that  we  are  fast  moving  out  of  the 
range  of  pure  character-mongering,  of  comedy,  into  a  far 
more  dubious  region. 


The  Psychologists 

Indeed,  we  have  a  strange  sense  of  having  left  every  world 
when  we  take  up  What  Maisie  Knew;  of  being  without  some 

120 


PHASES     OF    FICTION 

support  which,  even  if  it  impeded  us  in  Dickens  and  George 
Eliot,  upheld  us  and  controlled  us.  The  visual  sense  which 
has  hitherto  been  so  active,  perpetually  sketching  fields  and 
farmhouses  and  faces,  seems  now  to  fail  or  to  use  its  powers 
to  illumine  the  mind  within  rather  than  the  world  without. 
Henry  James  has  to  find  an  equivalent  for  the  processes  of 
the  mind,  to  make  concrete  a  mental  state.  He  says,  she  was 
'a  ready  vessel  for  bitterness,  a  deep  little  porcelain  cup  in 
which  biting  acids  could  be  mixed'.  He  is  forever  using  this 
intellectual  imagery.  The  usual  supports,  the  props  and 
struts  of  the  conventions,  expressed  or  observed  by  the 
writer,  are  removed.  Everything  seems  aloof  from  inter- 
ference, thrown  open  to  discussion  and  light,  though  resting 
on  no  visible  support.  For  the  minds  of  which  this  world  is 
composed  seem  oddly  freed  from  the  pressure  of  the  old 
encumbrances  and  raised  above  the  stress  of  circumstances. 

Crises  cannot  be  precipitated  by  any  of  the  old  devices 
which  Dickens  and  George  Eliot  used.  Murders,  rapes, 
seductions,  sudden  deaths  have  no  power  over  this  high, 
aloof  world.  Here  the  people  are  the  sport  only  of  delicate 
influences:  of  thoughts  that  people  think,  but  hardly  state, 
about  each  other;  of  judgments  which  people  whose  time 
is  unoccupied  have  leisure  to  devise  and  apply.  In  conse- 
quence, these  characters  seem  held  in  a  vacuum  at  a  great 
move  from  the  substantial,  lumbering  worlds  of  Dickens  and 
George  Eliot  or  from  the  precise  crisscross  of  convention 
which  metes  out  the  world  of  Jane  Austen.  They  live  in  a 
cocoon,  spun  from  the  finest  shades  of  meaning,  which  a 
society,  completely  unoccupied  by  the  business  of  getting  its 
living,  has  time  to  spin  round  and  about  itself.  Hence,  we 
are  at  once  conscious  of  using  faculties  hitherto  dormant, 
ingenuity  and  skill,  a  mental  nimbleness  and  dexterity  such 
as  serve  to  solve  a  puzzle  ingeniously;  our  pleasure  becomes 
split  up,  refined,  its  substance  infinitely  divided  instead  of 
being  served  to  us  in  one  lump. 

Maisie,  the  little  girl  who  is  the  bone  of  contention  be- 
tween two  parents,  each  of  them  claiming  her  for  six  months, 
each  of  them  finally  marrying  a  second  husband  or  wife,  lies 

121 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

sunk  beneath  the  depths  of  suggestion,  hint,  and  conjecture, 
so  that  she  can  only  affect  us  very  indirectly,  each  feeling  of 
hers  being  deflected  and  reaching  us  after  glancing  off  the 
mind  of  some  other  person.  Therefore  she  rouses  in  us  no 
simple  and  direct  emotion.  We  always  have  time  to  watch  it 
coming  and  to  calculate  its  pathway,  now  to  the  right,  now 
to  the  left.  Cool,  amused,  intrigued,  at  every  second  trying 
to  refine  our  senses  still  further  and  to  marshal  all  that  we 
have  of  sophisticated  intelligence  into  one  section  of  our- 
selves, we  hang  suspended  over  this  aloof  little  world  and 
watch  with  intellectual  curiosity  for  the  event. 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  our  pleasure  is  less  direct,  less  the 
result  of  feeling  strongly  in  sympathy  with  some  pleasure  or 
sorrow,  it  has  a  fineness,  a  sweetness,  which  the  more  direct 
writers  fail  to  give  us.  This  comes  in  part  from  the  fact  that 
a  thousand  emotional  veins  and  streaks  are  perceptible  in 
this  twilight  or  dawn  which  are  lost  in  the  full  light  of 
midday. 

Besides  this  fineness  and  sweetness  we  get  another  pleasure 
which  comes  when  the  mind  is  freed  from  the  perpetual 
demand  of  the  novelist  that  we  shall  feel  with  his  characters. 
By  cutting  off  the  responses  which  are  called  out  in  actual 
life,  the  novelist  frees  us  to  take  delight,  as  we  do  when  ill  or 
travelling,  in  things  in  themselves.  We  can  see  the  strange- 
ness of  them  only  when  habit  has  ceased  to  immerse  us  in 
them,  and  we  stand  outside  watching  what  has  no  power 
over  us  one  way  or  the  other.  Then  we  see  the  mind  at  work; 
we  are  amused  by  its  power  to  make  patterns;  by  its  power 
to  bring  out  relations  in  things  and  disparities  which  are 
covered  over  when  we  are  acting  by  habit  or  driven  on  by 
the  ordinary  impulses.  It  is  a  pleasure  somewhat  akin,  per- 
haps, to  the  pleasure  of  mathematics  or  the  pleasure  of 
music.  Only,  of  course,  since  the  novelist  is  using  men  and 
women  as  his  subjects,  he  is  perpetually  exciting  feelings 
which  are  opposed  to  the  impersonality  of  numbers  and 
sound;  he  seems,  in  fact,  to  ignore  and  to  repress  their 
natural  feelings,  to  be  coercing  them  into  a  plan  which  we 
call  with  vague  resentment  'artificial'  though  it  is  probable 

122 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

that  we  are  not  so  foolish  as  to  resent  artifice  in  art.  Either 
through  a  feeling  of  timidity  or  prudery  or  through  a  lack  of 
imaginative  audacity,  Henry  James  diminishes  the  interest 
and  importance  of  his  subject  in  order  to  bring  about  a 
symmetry  which  is  dear  to  him.  This  his  readers  resent.  We 
feel  him  there,  as  the  suave  showman,  skilfully  manipulating 
his  characters;  nipping,  repressing;  dexterously  evading  and 
ignoring,  where  a  writer  of  greater  depth  or  natural  spirits 
would  have  taken  the  risk  which  his  material  imposes,  let 
his  sails  blow  full  and  so,  perhaps,  achieved  symmetry  and 
pattern,  in  themselves  so  delightful,  all  the  same. 

But  it  is  the  measure  of  Henry  James's  greatness  that  he 
has  given  us  so  definite  a  world,  so  distinct  and  peculiar  a 
beauty  that  we  cannot  rest  satisfied  but  want  to  experiment 
further  with  these  extraordinary  perceptions,  to  understand 
more  and  more,  but  to  be  free  from  the  perpetual  tutelage 
of  the  author's  presence,  his  arrangements,  his  anxieties.  To 
gratify  this  desire,  naturally,  we  turn  to  the  work  of  Proust, 
where  we  find  at  once  an  expansion  of  sympathy  so  great 
that  it  almost  defeats  its  own  object.  If  we  are  going  to 
become  conscious  of  everything,  how  shall  we  realize  any- 
thing? Yet  if  Henry  James's  world,  after  the  worlds  of 
Dickens  and  George  Eliot,  seemed  without  material  boun- 
daries, if  everything  was  pervious  to  thought  and  susceptible 
of  twenty  shades  of  meaning,  here  illumination  and  analysis 
are  carried  far  beyond  those  bounds.  For  one  thing,  Henry 
James  himself,  the  American,  ill  at  ease  for  all  his  magnifi- 
cent urbanity  in  a  strange  civilization,  was  an  obstacle  never 
perfectly  assimilated  even  by  the  juices  of  his  own  art. 
Proust,  the  product  of  the  civilization  which  he  describes,  is 
so  porous,  so  pliable,  so  perfectly  receptive  that  we  realize 
him  only  as  an  envelope,  thin  but  elastic,  which  stretches 
wider  and  wider  and  serves  not  to  enforce  a  view  but  to 
enclose  a  world.  His  whole  universe  is  steeped  in  the  light  of 
intelligence.  The  commonest  object,  such  as  the  telephone, 
loses  its  simplicity,  its  solidity,  and  becomes  a  part  of  life 
and  transparent.  The  commonest  actions,  such  as  going  up 
in  an  elevator  or  eating  cake,  instead  of  being  discharged 

123 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

automatically,  rake  up  in  their  progress  a  whole  series  of 
thoughts,  sensations,  ideas,  memories  which  were  apparently 
sleeping  on  the  walls  of  the  mind. 

What  are  we  to  do  with  it  all?  we  cannot  help  asking,  as 
these  trophies  are  piled  up  round  us.  The  mind  cannot  be 
content  with  holding  sensation  after  sensation  passively  to 
itself;  something  must  be  done  with  them;  their  abundance 
must  be  shaped.  Yet  at  first  it  would  seem  as  if  this  vitalizing 
power  has  become  so  fertile  that  it  cumbers  the  way  and 
trips  us  up,  even  when  we  have  need  to  go  quickest,  by 
putting  some  curious  object  enticingly  in  our  way.  We  have 
to  stop  and  look  even  against  our  will. 

Thus,  when  his  mother  calls  him  to  come  to  his  grand- 
mother's deathbed,  the  author  says,  '"I  was  not  asleep,"  I 
answered  as  I  awoke'.  Then,  even  in  this  crisis,  he  pauses  to 
explain  carefully  and  subtly  why  at  the  moment  of  waking 
we  so  often  think  for  a  second  that  we  have  not  been  to 
sleep.  The  pause,  which  is  all  the  more  marked  because  the 
reflection  is  not  made  by  '  I '  himself  but'is  supplied  imper- 
sonally by  the  narrator  and  therefore,  from  a  different  angle, 
lays  a  great  strain  upon  the  mind,  stretched  by  the  urgency 
of  the  situation  to  focus  itself  upon  the  dying  woman  in  the 
next  room. 

Much  of  the  difficulty  of  reading  Proust  comes  from  this 
content  obliquity.  In  Proust,  the  accumulation  of  objects 
which  surround  any  central  point  is  so  vast  and  they  are 
often  so  remote,  so  difficult  of  approach  and  of  apprehension 
that  this  drawing-together  process  is  gradual,  tortuous,  and 
the  final  relation  difficult  in  the  extreme.  There  is  so  much 
more  to  think  about  them  than  one  had  supposed.  One's 
relations  are  not  only  with  another  person  but  with  the 
weather,  food,  clothes,  smells,  with  art  and  religion  and 
science  and  history  and  a  thousand  other  influence^. 

If  one  begins  to  analyse  consciousness,  it  will  be  found 
that  it  is  stirred  by  thousands  of  small,  irrelevant  ideas 
stuffed  with  odds  and  ends  of  knowledge.  When,  therefore, 
we  come  to  say  something  so  usual  as  '  I  kissed  her',  we  may 
well  have  to  explain  also  how  a  girl  jumped  over  a  man  in  a 

124 


PHASES     OF    FICTION 

deck-chair  on  the  beach  before  we  come  tortuously  and 
gradually  to  the  difficult  process  of  describing  what  a  kiss 
means.  In  any  crisis,  such  as  the  death  of  the  grandmother 
or  that  moment  when  the  Duchess  learns  as  she  steps  into 
her  carriage  that  her  old  friend  Swann  is  fatally  ill,  the 
number  of  emotions  that  compose  each  of  these  scenes  is 
immensely  larger,  and  they  are  themselves  much  more 
incongruous  and  difficult  of  relation  than  any  other  scene 
laid  before  us  by  a  novelist. 

Moreover,  if  we  ask  for  help  in  finding  our  way,  it  does 
not  come  through  any  of  the  usual  channels.  We  are  never 
told,  as  the  English  novelists  so  frequently  tell  us,  that  one 
way  is  right  and  the  other  wrong.  Every  way  is  thrown  open 
without  reserve  and  without  prejudice.  Everything  that  can 
be  felt  can  be  said.  The  mind  of  Proust  lies  open  with  the 
sympathy  of  a  poet  and  the  detachment  of  a  scientist  to 
everything  that  it  has  the  power  to  feel.  Direction  or  em- 
phasis, to  be  told  that  that  is  right,  to  be  nudged  and  bidden 
to  attend  to  that,  would  fall  like  a  shadow  on  this  profound 
luminosity  and  cut  off  some  section  of  it  from  our  view.  The 
common  stuff  of  the  book  is  made  of  this  deep  reservoir  of 
perception.  It  is  from  these  depths  that  his  characters  rise, 
like  waves  forming,  then  break  and  sink  again  into  the 
moving  sea  of  thought  and  comment  and  analysis  which 
gave  them  birth. 

In  retrospect,  thus,  though  as  dominant  as  any  characters 
in  fiction,  the  characters  of  Proust  seem  made  of  a  different 
substance.  Thoughts,  dreams,  knowledge  are  part  of  them. 
They  have  grown  to  their  full  stature,  and  their  actions  have 
met  with  no  rebuff.  If  we  look  for  direction  to  help  us  put 
them  in  their  places  in  the  universe,  we  find  it  negatively  in 
an  absence  of  direction — perhaps  sympathy  is  of  more  value 
than  interference,  understanding  than  judgment.  As  a  conse- 
quence of  the  union  of  the  thinker  and  the  poet,  often,  on 
the  heel  of  some  fanatically  precise  observation,  we  come 
upon  a  flight  of  imagery — beautiful,  coloured,  visual,  as  if 
the  mind,  having  carried  its  powers  as  far  as  possible  in 
analysis,  suddenly  rose  in  the  air  and  from  a  station  high  up 

125 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

gave  us  a  different  view  of  the  same  object  in  terms  of  meta- 
phor. This  dual  vision  makes  the  great  characters  in  Proust 
and  the  whole  world  from  which  they  spring  more  like  a 
globe,  of  which  one  side  is  always  hidden,  than  a  scene  laid 
flat  before  us,  the  whole  of  which  we  can  take  in  at  one 
glance. 

To  make  this  more  precise,  it  might  be  well  to  choose 
another  writer,  of  foreign  birth  also,  who  has  the  same  power 
of  illuminating  the  consciousness  from  its  roots  to  the  surface. 
Directly  we  step  from  the  world  of  Proust  to  the  world  of 
Dostoevsky,  we  are  startled  by  differences  which  for  a  time 
absorb  all  our  attention.  How  positive  the  Russian  is,  in 
comparison  with  the  Frenchman.  He  strikes  out  a  character 
or  a  scene  by  the  use  of  glaring  oppositions  which  are  left 
unbridged.  Extreme  terms  like  'love'  and  'hate'  are  used 
so  lavishly  that  we  must  race  our  imaginations  to  cover  the 
ground  between  them.  One  feels  that  the  mesh  of  civiliza- 
tion here  is  made  of  a  coarse  netting  and  the  holes  are  wide 
apart.  Men  and  women  have  escaped,  compared  with  the 
imprisonment  that  they  suffer  in  Paris.  They  are  free  to 
throw  themselves  from  side  to  side,  to  gesticulate,  to  hiss,  to 
rant,  to  fall  into  paroxysms  of  rage  and  excitement.  They 
are  free,  with  the  freedom  that  violent  emotion  gives,  from 
hesitation,  from  scruple,  from  analysis.  At  first  we  are 
amazed  by  the  emptiness  and  the  crudity  of  this  world  com- 
pared with  the  other.  But  when  we  have  arranged  our 
perspective  a  little,  it  is  clear  that  we  are  still  in  the  same 
world — that  it  is  the  mind  which  entices  us  and  the  adven- 
tures of  the  mind  that  concern  us.  Other  worlds,  such  as 
Scott's  or  Defoe's,  are  incredible.  Of  this  we  are  assured 
when  we  begin  to  encounter  those  curious  contradictions  of 
which  Dostoevsky  is  so  prolific.  There  is  a  simplicity  in 
violence  which  we  find  nowhere  in  Proust,  but  violence  also 
lays  bare  regions  deep  down  in  the  mind  where  contradic- 
tion prevails.  That  contrast  which  marked  Stavrogin's 
appearance,  so  that  he  was  at  once  '  a  paragon  of  beauty, 
yet  at  the  same  time  there  seemed  something  repellent 
about  him',  is  but  the  crude  outer  sign  of  the  vice  and 

126 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

virtue  we  meet,  at  full  tilt,  in  the  same  breast.  The  simplifi- 
cation is  only  on  the  surface;  when  the  bold  and  ruthless 
process,  which  seems  to  punch  out  characters,  then  to  group 
them  together  and  then  to  set  them  all  in  violent  motion,  so 
energetically,  so  impatiently,  is  complete,  we  are  shown 
how,  beneath  this  crude  surface,  all  is  chaos  and  complica- 
tion. We  feel  at  first  that  we  are  in  a  savage  society  where 
the  emotions  are  much  simpler  and  stronger  and  more 
impressive  than  any  we  encounter  in  A  la  Recherche  du  Temps 
perdu. 

Since  there  are  so  few  conventions,  so  few  barriers 
(Stavrogin,  for  instance,  passes  easily  from  the  depths  to 
the  heights  of  society)  the  complexity  would  appear  to  lie 
deeper,  and  these  strange  contradictions  and  anomalies 
which  make  a  man  at  once  divine  and  bestial  would  seem 
to  be  deep  in  the  heart  and  not  superimposed.  Hence,  the 
strange  emotional  effect  of  The  Possessed.  It  appears  to  be 
written  by  a  fanatic  ready  to  sacrifice  skill  and  artifice  in 
order  to  reveal  the  soul's  difficulties  and  confusions.  The 
novels  of  Dostoevsky  are  pervaded  with  mysticism;  he 
speaks  not  as  a  writer  but  as  a  sage,  sitting  by  the  roadside 
in  a  blanket,  with  infinite  knowledge  and  infinite  patience. 

'Yes,'  she  answered,  'the  mother  of  God  is  the  great 
mother — the  damp  earth,  and  therein  lies  great  joy  for 
men.  And  every  earthly  woe  and  every  earthly  fear  is  a 
joy  for  us;  and  when  you  water  the  earth  with  your  tears 
a  foot  deep,  you  will  rejoice  at  everything  at  once,  and 
your  sorrow  will  be  no  more,  such  is  the  prophecy.'  That 
word  sank  into  my  heart  at  the  time.  Since  then  when  I 
bow  down  to  the  ground  at  my  prayers,  I've  taken  to 
kissing  the  earth.     I  kiss  it  and  weep. 

Such  is  a  characteristic  passage.  But  in  a  novel  the  voice  of 
the  teacher,  however  exalted,  is  not  enough.  We  have  too 
many  interests  to  consider,  too  many  problems  to  face.  Con- 
sider a  scene  like  that  extraordinary  party  to  which  Varvara 
Petrovna  has  brought  Marya,  the  lame  idiot,  whom  Stav- 
rogin has  married  'from  a  passion  for  martyrdom,  from  a 
craving  for  remorse,  through  moral  sensuality'.  We  cannot 

127 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

read  to  the  end  without  feeling  as  if  a  thumb  were  pressing 
on  a  button  in  us,  when  we  have  no  emotion  left  to  answer 
the  call.  It  is  a  day  of  surprises,  a  day  of  startling  revelations, 
a  day  of  strange  coincidences.  For  several  of  the  people  there 
(and  they  come  flocking  to  the  room  from  all  quarters)  the 
scene  has  the  greater  emotional  importance.  Everything  is 
done  to  suggest  the  intensity  of  their  emotions.  They  turn 
pale;  they  shake  with  terror;  they  go  into  hysterics.  They  are 
thus  brought  before  us  in  flashes  of  extreme  brilliance — the 
mad  woman  with  the  paper  rose  in  her  hat;  the  young  man 
whose  words  patter  out  'like  smooth  big  grains.  .  .  .  One 
somehow  began  to  imaging  that  he  must  have  a  tongue  of 
special  shape,  somehow  exceptionally  long  and  thin,  and  ex- 
tremely red,  with  a  very  sharp  everlastingly  active  little  tip.' 
Yet  though  they  stamp  and  scream,  we  hear  the  sound  as 
if  it  went  on  next  door.  Perhaps  the  truth  is  that  hate,  sur- 
prise, anger,  horror,  are  all  too  strong  to  be  felt  continuously. 
This  emptiness  and  noise  lead  us  to  wonder  whether  the 
novel  of  psychology,  which  projects  its  drama  in  the  mind, 
should  not,  as  the  truth-tellers  showed  us,  vary  and  diversify 
its  emotions,  lest  we  shall  become  numb  with  exhaustion. 
To  brush  aside  civilization  and  plunge  into  the  depths  of  the 
soul  is  not  really  to  enrich.  We  have,  if  we  turn  to  Proust, 
more  emotion  in  a  scene  which  is  not  supposed  to  be  remark- 
able, like  that  in  the  restaurant  in  the  fog.  There  we  live 
along  a  thread  of  observation  which  is  always  going  in  and 
out  of  this  mind  and  that  mind;  which  gathers  information 
from  different  social  levels,  which  makes  us  now  feel  with  a 
prince,  now  with  a  restaurant  keeper,  and  brings  us  into 
touch  with  different  physical  experiences  such  as  light  after 
darkness,  safety  after  danger,  so  that  the  imagination  is 
being  stimulated  on  all  sides  to  close  slowly,  gradually, 
without  being  goaded  by  screams  or  violence,  completely 
round  the  object.  Proust  is  determined  to  bring  before  the 
reader  every  piece  of  evidence  upon  which  any  state  of  mind 
is  founded;  so  convinced  is  Dostoevsky  of  some  point  of  truth 
that  he  sees  before  him,  he  will  skip  and  leap  to  his  conclu- 
sion with  a  spontaneity  that  is  in  itself  stimulating. 

128 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

By  this  distortion  the  psychologist  reveals  himself.  The 
intellect,  which  analyses  and  discriminates,  is  always  and 
almost  at  once  overpowered  by  the  rush  to  feeling;  whether 
it  is  sympathy  or  anger.  Hence,  there  is  something  illogical 
and  contradictory  often  in  the  characters,  perhaps  because 
they  are  exposed  to  so  much  more  than  the  usual  current  of 
emotional  force.  Why  does  he  act  like  this?  we  ask  again  and 
again,  and  answer  rather  doubtfully,  that  so  perhaps  mad- 
men act.  In  Proust,  on  the  other  hand,  the  approach  is 
equally  indirect,  but  it  is  through  what  people  think  and 
what  is  thought  about  them,  through  the  knowledge  and 
thoughts  of  the  author  himself,  that  we  come  to  understand 
them  very  slowly  and  laboriously,  but  with  the  whole  of  our 
minds. 

The  books,  however,  with  all  these  dissimilarities,  are 
alike  in  this;  both  are  permeated  with  unhappiness.  And 
this  would  seem  to  be  inevitable  when  the  mind  is  not  given 
a  direct  grasp  of  whatever  it  may  be.  Dickens  is  in  many 
ways  like  Dostoevsky;  he  is  prodigiously  fertile  and  he  has 
immense  powers  of  caricature.  But  Micawber,  David  Gop- 
perfield,  and  Mrs.  Gamp  are  placed  directly  before  us,  as  if 
the  author  saw  them  from  the  same  angle,  and  had  nothing 
to  do,  and  no  conclusion  to  draw,  except  direct  amusement 
or  interest.  The  mind  of  the  author  is  nothing  but  a  glass 
between  us,  or,  at  most,  serves  to  put  a  frame  round  them. 
All  the  author's  emotional  power  has  gone  into  them.  The 
surplus  of  thought  and  feeling  which  remained  after  the 
characters  had  been  created  in  George  Eliot,  to  cloud  and 
darken  her  page,  has  been  used  up  in  the  characters  of 
Dickens.  Nothing  of  importance  remains  over. 

But  in  Proust  and  Dostoevsky,  in  Henry  James,  too,  and 
in  all  those  who  set  themselves  to  follow  feelings  and 
thoughts,  there  is  always  an  overflow  of  emotion  from  the 
author  as  if  characters  of  such  subtlety  and  complexity 
could  be  created  only  when  the  rest  of  the  book  is  a  deep 
reservoir  of  thought  and  emotion.  Thus,  though  the  author 
himself  is  not  present,  characters  like  Stephen  Trofimovitch 
and  Charlus  can  exist  only  in  a  world  made  of  the  same 

129 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

stuff  as  they  are,  though  left  unformulated.  The  effect  of  this 
brooding  and  analysing  mind  is  always  to  produce  an  atmo- 
sphere of  doubt,  of  questioning,  of  pain,  perhaps  of  despair. 
At  least,  such  would  seem  to  be  the  result  of  reading  A  la 
Recherche  du  Temps  perdu  and  The  Possessed. 


The  Satirists  and  Fantastics 

The  confused  feelings  which  the  psychologists  have  roused 
in  us,  the  extraordinary  intricacy  which  they  have  revealed 
to  us,  the  network  of  fine  and  scarcely  intelligible  yet  pro- 
foundly interesting  emotions  in  which  they  have  involved  us, 
set  up  a  craving  for  relief,  at  first  so  primitive  that  it  is  almost 
a  physical  sensation.  The  mind  feels  like  a  sponge  saturated 
full  with  sympathy  and  understanding;  it  needs  to  dry  itself, 
to  contract  upon  something  hard.  Satire  and  the  sense  that 
the  satirist  gives  us  that  he  has  the  world  well  within  his 
grasp,  so  that  it  is  at  the  mercy  of  his  pen,  precisely  fulfil  our 
needs. 

A  further  instinct  will  lead  us  to  pass  over  such  famous 
satirists  as  Voltaire  and  Anatole  France  in  favour  of  someone 
writing  in  our  own  tongue,  writing  English.  For  without  any 
disrespect  to  the  translator  we  have  grown  intolerably 
weary  in  reading  Dostoevsky,  as  if  we  were  reading  with  the 
wrong  spectacles  or  as  if  a  mist  had  formed  between  us  and 
the  page.  We  come  to  feel  that  every  idea  is  slipping  about 
in  a  suit  badly  cut  and  many  sizes  too  large  for  it.  For  a 
translation  makes  us  understand  more  clearly  than  the 
lectures  of  any  professor  the  difference  between  raw  words 
and  written  words;  the  nature  and  importance  of  what  we 
call  style.  Even  an  inferior  writer,  using  his  own  tongue 
upon  his  own  ideas,  works  a  change  at  once  which  is  agree- 
able and  remarkable.  Under  his  pen  the  sentence  shrinks 
and  wraps  itself  firmly  round  the  meaning,  if  it  be  but  a  little 
one.  The  loose,  the  baggy,  shrivels  up.  And  while  a  writer  of 
passable  English  will  do  this,  a  writer  like  Peacock  does 
infinitely  more. 

130 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

When  we  open  Crotchet  Castle  and  read  that  first  very  long 
sentence  which  begins,  'In  one  of  those  beautiful  valleys, 
through  which  the  Thames  (not  yet  polluted  by  the  tide, 
the  scouring  of  cities  or  even  the  minor  defilement  of  the 
sandy  streams  of  Surrey) ',  it  would  be  difficult  to  describe 
the  relief  it  gives  us,  except  metaphorically.  First  there  is  the 
shape  which  recalls  something  visually  delightful,  like  a 
flowing  wave  or  the  lash  of  a  whip  vigorously  flung;  then  as 
phrase  joins  phrase  and  one  parenthesis  after  another  pours 
in  its  tributary,  we  have  a  sense  of  the  whole  swimming 
stream  gliding  beneath  old  walls  with  the  shadows  of  ancient 
buildings  and  the  glow  of  green  lawns  reflected  in  it.  And 
what  is  even  more  delightful  after  the  immensities  and 
obscurities  in  which  we  have  been  living,  we  are  in  a  world 
so  manageable  in  scale  that  we  can  take  its  measure,  tease 
it  and  ridicule  it.  It  is  like  stepping  out  into  the  garden  on  a 
perfect  September  morning  when  every  shadow  is  sharp  and 
every  colour  bright  after  a  night  of  storm  and  thunder. 
Nature  has  submitted  to  the  direction  of  man.  Man  himself 
is  dominated  by  his  intelligence.  Instead  of  being  many- 
sided,  complicated,  elusive,  people  possess  one  idiosyncrasy 
apiece,  which  crystallizes  them  into  sharp  separate  char- 
acters, colliding  briskly  when  they  meet.  They  seem  ridicu- 
lously and  grotesquely  simplified  out  of  all  knowledge.  Dr. 
Folliott,  Mr.  Firedamp,  Mr.  Skionar,  Mr.  Chainmail,  and 
the  rest  seem  after  the  tremendous  thickness  and  bulk  of  the 
Guermantes  and  the  Stavrogins  nothing  but  agreeable 
caricatures  which  a  clever  old  scholar  has  cut  out  of  a  sheet 
of  black  paper  with  a  pair  of  scissors.  But  on  looking  closer 
we  find  that  though  it  would  be  absurd  to  credit  Peacock 
with  any  desire  or  perhaps  capacity  to  explore  the  depths 
of  the  soul,  his  reticence  is  not  empty  but  suggestive.  The 
character  of  Dr.  Folliott  is  drawn  in  three  strokes  of  the  pen. 
What  lies  between  is  left  out.  But  each  stroke  indicates  the 
mass  behind  it,  so  that  the  reader  can  make  it  out  for  him- 
self; while  it  has,  because  of  this  apparent  simplicity,  all  the 
sharpness  of  a  caricature.  The  world  so  happily  constituted 
that  there  is  always  trout  for  breakfast,  wine  in  the  cellar, 

131 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

and  some  amusing  contretemps,  such  as  the  cook  setting 
herself  alight  and  being  put  out  by  the  footman,  to  make  us 
laugh — a  world  where  there  is  nothing  more  pressing  to  do 
than  to  '  glide  over  the  face  of  the  waters,  discussing  every- 
thing and  settling  nothing',  is  not  the  world  of  pure  fantasy; 
it  is  close  enough  to  be  a  parody  of  our  world  and  to  make 
our  own  follies  and  the  solemnities  of  our  institutions  look  a 
little  silly. 

The  satirist  does  not,  like  the  psychologist,  labour  under 
the  oppression  of  omniscience.  He  has  leisure  to  play  with 
his  mind  freely,  ironically.  His  sympathies  are  not  deeply 
engaged.  His  sense  of  humour  is  not  submerged. 

But  the  prime  distinction  lies  in  the  changed  attitude 
towards  reality.  In  the  psychologists  the  huge  burden  of 
facts  is  based  upon  a  firm  foundation  of  dinner,  luncheon, 
bed  and  breakfast.  It  is  with  surprise,  yet  with  relief  and  a 
start  of  pleasure,  that  we  accept  Peacock's  version  of  the 
world,  which  ignores  so  much,  simplifies  so  much,  gives  the 
old  globe  a  spin  and  shows  another  face  of  it  on  the  other 
side.  It  is  unnecessary  to  be  quite  so  painstaking,  it  seems. 
And,  after  all,  is  not  this  quite  as  real,  as  true  as  the  other? 
And  perhaps  all  this  pother  about  'reality'  is  overdone. 
The  great  gain  is  perhaps  that  our  relation  with  things  is 
more  distant.  We  reap  the  benefit  of  a  more  poetic  point  of 
view.  A  line  like  the  charming  'At  Godstow,  they  gathered 
hazel  on  the  grave  of  Rosamond '  could  be  written  only  by 
a  writer  who  was  at  a  certain  distance  from  his  people,  so 
that  there  need  be  no  explanations.  For  certainly  with 
Trollope's  people  explanations  would  have  been  necessary; 
we  should  have  wanted  to  know  what  they  had  been  doing, 
gathering  hazel,  and  where  they  had  gone  for  dinner  after- 
wards and  how  the  carriage  had  met  them.  'They',  how- 
ever, being  Ghainmail,  Skionar,  and  the  rest,  are  at  liberty 
to  gather  hazel  on  the  grave  of  Rosamond  if  they  like;  as 
they  are  free  to  sing  a  song  if  it  so  pleases  them  or  to  debate 
the  march  of  mind. 

The  romantic  took  the  same  liberty  but  for  another 
purpose.  In  the  satirist  we  get  not  a  sense  of  wildness  and  the 

132 


PHASES     OF     FICTION 

soul's  adventures,  but  that  the  mind  is  free  and  therefore 
sees  through  and  dispenses  with  much  that  is  taken  seriously 
by  writers  of  another  calibre. 

There  are,  of  course,  limitations,  reminders,  even  in  the 
midst  of  our  pleasure,  of  boundaries  that  we  must  not  pass. 
We  cannot  imagine  in  the  first  place  that  the  writer  of  such 
exquisite  sentences  can  cover  many  reams  of  paper;  they 
cost  too  much  to  make.  Then  again  a  writer  who  gives  us 
so  keen  a  sense  of  his  own  personality  by  the  shape  of  his 
phrase  is  limited.  We  are  always  being  brought  into  touch, 
not  with  Peacock  himself,  as  with  Trollope  himself  (for 
there  is  no  giving  away  of  his  own  secrets;  he  does  not  con- 
jure up  the  very  shape  of  himself  and  the  sound  of  his 
laughter  as  Trollope  does),  but  all  the  time  our  thought  is 
taking  the  colour  of  his  thought,  we  are  insensibly  thinking 
in  his  measure.  If  we  write,  we  try  to  write  in  his  manner, 
and  this  brings  us  into  far  greater  intimacy  with  him  than 
with  writers  like  Trollope  again  or  Scott,  who  wrap  their 
thought  up  quite  adequately  in  a  duffle  gray  blanket  which 
wears  well  and  suits  everything.  This  may  in  the  end,  of 
course,  lead  to  some  restriction.  Style  may  carry  with  it, 
especially  in  prose,  so  much  personality  that  it  keeps  us 
within  the  range  of  that  personality.  Peacock  pervades  his 
book. 

In  order  that  we  may  consider  this  more  fully  let  us  turn 
from  Peacock  to  Sterne,  a  much  greater  writer,  yet  suffi- 
ciently in  the  family  of  Peacock  to  let  us  carry  on  the  same 
train  of  thought  uninterruptedly. 

At  once  we  are  aware  that  we  are  in  the  presence  of  a 
much  subtler  mind,  a  mind  of  far  greater  reach  and  intensity. 
Peacock's  sentences,  firmly  shaped  and  beautifully  polished 
as  they  are,  cannot  stretch  as  these  can.  Here  our  sense  of 
elasticity  is  increased  so  much  that  we  scarcely  know  where 
we  are.  We  lose  our  sense  of  direction.  We  go  backwards 
instead  of  forwards.  A  simple  statement  starts  a  digression; 
we  circle;  we  soar;  we  turn  round;  and  at  last  back  we  come 
again  to  Uncle  Toby  who  has  been  sitting  meanwhile  in  his 
black  plush  breeches  with  his  pipe  in  his  hand.  Proust,  it  may 

133 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

be  said,  was  as  tortuous,  but  his  indirectness  was  due  to  his 
immense  powers  of  analysis  and  to  the  fact  that  directly  he 
had  made  a  simple  statement  he  perceived  and  must  make 
us  perceive  all  that  it  implied.  Sterne  is  not  an  analyst  of 
other  people's  sensations.  Those  remain  simple,  eccentric, 
erratic.  It  is  his  own  mind  that  fascinates  him,  its  oddities 
and  its  whims,  its  fancies  and  its  sensibilities;  and  it  is  his 
own  mind  that  colours  the  book  and  gives  it  walls  and 
shape.  Yet  it  is  obvious  that  his  claim  is  just  when  he  says 
that  however  widely  he  may  digress,  to  my  Aunt  Dinah  and 
the  coachman  and  then  'some  millions  of  miles  into  the  very 
heart  of  the  planetary  system',  when  he  is  by  way  of  telling 
about  Uncle  Toby's  character,  still  'the  drawing  of  my 
Uncle  Toby's  character  went  on  gently  all  the  time — not 
the  great  contours  of  it — that  was  impossible — but  some 
familiar  strokes  and  faint  designations  of  it  ...  so  that  you 
are  much  better  acquainted  with  my  Uncle  Toby  now  than 
you  were  before'.  It  is  true,  for  we  are  always  alighting  as 
we  skim  and  circle  to  deposit  some  little  grain  of  observation 
upon  the  figure  of  Uncle  Toby  sitting  there  with  his  pipe  in 
his  hand.  There  is  thus  built  up  intermittently,  irregularly, 
an  extraordinary  portrait  of  a  character — a  character  shown 
most  often  in  a  passive  state,  sitting  still,  through  the  quick 
glancing  eyes  of  an  erratic  observer,  who  never  lets  his  char- 
acter speak  more  than  a  few  words  or  take  more  than  a  few 
steps  in  his  proper  person,  but  is  forever  circling  round  and 
playing  with  the  lapels  of  his  coat  and  peering  up  into  his 
face  and  teasing  him  affectionately,  whimsically,  as  if  he 
were  the  attendant  sprite  in  charge  of  some  unconscious, 
mortal.  Two  such  opposites  were  made  to  see  each  other  off 
and  draw  each  other  out.  One  relishes  the  simplicity,  the 
modesty,  of  Uncle  Toby  all  the  more  for  comparing  them 
with  the  witty,  indecent,  disagreeable,  yet  highly  sympa- 
thetic, character  of  the  author. 

All  through  Tristram  Shandy  we  are  aware  of  this  blend 
and  contrast.  Laurence  Sterne  is  the  most  important  char- 
acter in  the  book.  It  is  true  that  at  the  critical  moment  the 
author  obliterates  himself  and  gives  his  characters  that  little 

134 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

extra  push  which  frees  them  from  his  tutelage  so  that  they 
are  something  more  than  the  whims  and  fancies  of  a  brilliant 
brain.  But  since  character  is  largely  made  up  of  surround- 
ings and  circumstances,  these  people  whose  surroundings 
are  so  queer,  who  are  often  silent  themselves  but  always  so 
whimsically  talked  about,  are  a  race  apart  among  the  people 
of  fiction.  There  is  nothing  like  them  elsewhere,  for  in  no 
other  book  are  the  characters  so  closely  dependent  on  the 
author.  In  no  other  book  are  the  writer  and  reader  so 
involved  together.  So,  finally,  we  get  a  book  in  which  all  the 
usual  conventions  are  consumed  and  yet  no  ruin  or  cata- 
strophe comes  to  pass;  the  whole  subsists  complete  by  it- 
self, like  a  house  which  is  miraculously  habitable  without 
the  help  of  walls,  staircases,  or  partitions.  We  live  in  the 
humours,  contortions,  and  oddities  of  the  spirit,  not  in  the 
slow  unrolling  of  the  long  length  of  life.  And  the  reflection 
comes,  as  we  sun  ourselves  on  one  of  these  high  pinnacles, 
can  we  not  escape  even  further,  so  that  we  are  not  conscious 
of  any  author  at  all?  Can  we  not  find  poetry  in  some  novel 
or  other?  For  Sterne  by  the  beauty  of  his  style  has  let  us 
pass  beyond  the  range  of  personality  into  a  world  which  is 
not  altogether  the  world  of  fiction.  It  is  above. 


The  Poets 

Certain  phrases  have  brought  about  this  change  in  us.  They 
have  raised  us  out  of  the  atmosphere  of  fiction;  they  have 
made  us  pause  to  wonder.     For  instance: 

I  will  not  argue  the  matter;  Time  wastes  too  fast:  every 
letter  I  trace  tells  me  with  what  rapidity  Life  follows  my 
pen;  the  days  and  hours  of  it  more  precious, — my  dear 
Jenny — than  the  rubies  about  thy  neck,  are  flying  over 
our  heads  like  light  clouds  of  a  windy  day,  never  to  return 
more;  everything  presses  on, — whilst  thou  art  twisting 
that  lock; — see!  it  grows  grey;  and  every  time  I  kiss  thy 
hand  to  bid  adieu,  and  every  absence  which  follows  it,  are 
preludes  to  that  eternal  separation  which  we  are  shortly 
to  make. 

135 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

Phrases  like  this  bring,  by  the  curious  rhythm  of  their 
phrasing,  by  a  touch  on  the  visual  sense,  an  alteration  in  the 
movement  of  the  mind  which  makes  it  pause  and  widen  its 
gaze  and  slightly  change  its  attention.  We  are  looking  out  at 
life  in  general. 

But  though  Sterne  with  his  extraordinary  elasticity  could 
use  this  effect,  too,  without  incongruity,  that  is  only  possible 
because  his  genius  is  rich  enough  to  let  him  sacrifice  some  of 
the  qualities  that  are  native  to  the  character  of  the  novel 
without  our  feeling  it.  It  is  obvious  that  there  is  no  massing 
together  of  the  experiences  of  many  lives  and  many  minds 
as  in  War  and  Peace;  and,  too,  that  there  is  something  of  the 
essayist,  something  of  the  soliloquist  in  the  quips  and  quirks 
of  this  brilliant  mind.  He  is  sometimes  sentimental,  as  if  after 
so  great  a  display  of  singularity  he  must  assert  his  interest  in 
the  normal  lives  and  affections  of  his  people.  Tears  are 
necessary;  tears  are  pumped  up.  Be  that  as  it  may,  exquisite 
and  individual  as  his  poetry  is,  there  is  another  poetry  which 
is  more  natural  to  the  novel,  because  it  uses  the  material 
which  the  novelist  provides.  It  is  the  poetry  of  situation 
rather  than  of  language,  the  poetry  which  we  perceive  when 
Catherine  in  Wuthering  Heights  pulls  the  feathers  from  the 
pillow;  when  Natasha  in  War  and  Peace  looks  out  of  the 
window  at  the  stars.  And  it  is  significant  that  we  recall  this 
poetry,  not  as  we  recall  it  in  verse,  by  the  words,  but  by  the 
scene.  The  prose  remains  casual  and  quiet  enough  so  that 
to  quote  it  is  to  do  little  or  nothing  to  explain  its  effect.  Often 
we  have  to  go  far  back  and  read  a  chapter  or  more  before 
we  can  come  by  the  impression  of  beauty  or  intensity  that 
possessed  us. 

Yet  it  is  not  to  be  denied  that  two  of  the  novelists  who 
are  most  frequently  poetical — Meredith  and  Hardy — are  as 
novelists  imperfect.  Both  The  Ordeal  of  Richard  Feverel  and 
Far  from  the  Madding  Crowd  are  books  of  great  inequality.  In 
both  we  feel  a  lack  of  control,  an  incoherence  such  as  we 
never  feel  in  War  and  Peace  or  in  A  la  Recherche  du  Temps  perdu 
or  in  Pride  and  Prejudice.  Both  Hardy  and  Meredith  are  too 
fully  charged,  it  would  seem,  with  a  sense  of  poetry  and  have 

136 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

too  limited  or  too  imperfect  a  sympathy  with  human  beings 
to  express  it  adequately  through  that  channel.  Hence,  as  we 
so  often  find  in  Hardy,  the  impersonal  element — Fate,  the 
Gods,  whatever  name  we  choose  to  call  it — dominates  the 
people.  They  appear  wooden,  melodramatic,  unreal.  They 
cannot  express  the  poetry  with  which  the  writer  himself  is 
charged  through  their  own  lips,  for  their  psychology  is 
inadequate,  and  thus  the  expression  is  left  to  the  writer,  who 
assumes  a  character  apart  from  his  people  and  cannot  return 
to  them  with  perfect  ease  when  the  time  comes. 

Again,  in  Meredith  the  writer's  sense  of  the  poetry  of 
youth,  of  love,  of  nature  is  heard  like  a  song  to  which  the 
characters  listen  passively  without  moving  a  muscle;  and 
then,  when  the  song  is  done,  on  they  move  again  with  a 
jerk.  This  would  seem  to  prove  that  a  profound  poetic  sense 
is  a  dangerous  gift  for  the  novelist;  for  in  Hardy  and 
Meredith  poetry  seems  to  mean  something  impersonal, 
generalized,  hostile  to  the  idiosyncrasy  of  character,  so  that 
the  two  suffer  if  brought  into  touch.  It  may  be  that  the 
perfect  novelist  expresses  a  different  sort  of  poetry,  or  has 
the  power  of  expressing  it  in  a  manner  which  is  not  harmful 
to  the  other  qualities  of  the  novel.  If  we  recall  the  passages 
that  have  seemed  to  us,  in  retrospect  at  any  rate,  to  be 
poetical  in  fiction  we  remember  them  as  part  of  the  novel. 
When  Natasha  in  War  and  Peace  looks  out  of  the  window  at 
the  stars,  Tolstoy  produces  a  feeling  of  deep  and  intense 
poetry  without  any  disruption  or  that  disquieting  sense  of 
song  being  sung  to  people  who  listen.  He  does  this  because  his 
poetic  sense  finds  expression  in  the  poetry  of  the  situation 
or  because  his  character  express  it  in  their  own  words, 
which  are  often  of  the  simplest.  We  have  been  living  in 
them  and  knowing  them,  so  that,  when  Natasha  leans  on  the 
window  sill  and  thinks  of  her  life  to  come,  our  feelings  of  the 
poetry  of  the  moment  do  not  lie  in  what  she  says  so  much  as 
in  our  sense  of  her  who  is  saying  it. 

Wuthering  Heights  again  is  steeped  in  poetry.  But  here 
there  is  a  difference,  for  one  can  hardly  say  that  the  profound 
poetry  of  the  scene  where  Catherine  pulls  the  feathers  from 

137 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

the  pillow  has  anything  to  do  with  our  knowledge  of  her  or 
adds  to  our  understanding  or  our  feeling  about  her  future. 
Rather  it  deepens  and  controls  the  wild,  stormy  atmosphere 
of  the  whole  book.  By  a  master  stroke  of  vision,  rarer  in 
prose  than  in  poetry,  people  and  scenery  and  atmosphere 
are  all  in  keeping.  And,  what  is  still  rarer  and  more  impres- 
sive, through  that  atmosphere  we  seem  to  catch  sight  of 
larger  men  and  women,  of  other  symbols  and  significances. 
Yet  the  characters  of  Heathcliff  and  Catherine  are  perfectly 
natural;  they  contain  all  the  poetry  that  Emily  Bronte  her- 
self feels  without  effort.  We  never  feel  that  this  is  a  poetic 
moment,  apart  from  the  rest,  or  that  here  Emily  Bronte  is 
speaking  to  us  through  her  characters.  Her  emotion  has  not 
overflowed  and  risen  up  independently,  in  some  comment  or 
attitude  of  her  own.  She  is  using  her  characters  to  express 
her  conception,  so  that  her  people  are  active  agents  in  the 
book's  life,  adding  to  its  impetus  and  not  impeding  it.  The 
same  thing  happens,  more  explicitly  but  with  less  concen- 
tration, in  Moby  Dick.  In  both  books  we  get  a  vision  of 
presence  outside  the  human  beings,  of  a  meaning  that  they 
stand  for,  without  ceasing  to  be  themselves.  But  it  is  notable 
that  both  Emily  Bronte  and  Herman  Melville  ignore  the 
greater  part  of  those  spoils  of  the  modern  spirit  which 
Proust  grasps  so  tenaciously  and  transforms  so  triumphantly. 
Both  the  earlier  writers  simplify  their  characters  till  only  the 
great  contour,  the  clefts  and  ridges  of  the  face,  are  visible. 
Both  seem  to  have  been  content  with  the  novel  as  their  form 
and  with  prose  as  their  instrument  provided  that  they  could 
remove  the  scene  far  from  towns,  simplify  the  actors  and 
allow  nature  at  her  wildest  to  take  part  in  the  scene.  Thus 
we  can  say  that  there  is  poetry  in  novels  both  where  the 
poetry  is  expressed  not  so  much  by  the  particular  character 
in  a  particular  situation,  like  Natasha  in  the  window,  but 
rather  by  the  whole  mood  and  temper  of  the  book,  like  the 
mood  and  temper  of  Wuthering  Heights  or  Moby  Dick  to  which 
the  characters  of  Catherine  or  Heathcliff  or  Captain  Ahab 
give  expression. 

In  A  la  Recherche  du  Temps  perdu,  however,  there  is  as  much 

138 


PHASES     OF     FICTION 

poetry  as  in  any  of  these  books;  but  it  is  poetry  of  a  different 
kind.  The  analysis  of  emotion  is  carried  further  by  Proust 
than  by  any  other  novelist;  and  the  poetry  comes,  not  in  the 
situation,  which  is  too  fretted  and  voluminous  for  such  an 
effect,  but  in  those  frequent  passages  of  elaborate  metaphor, 
which  spring  out  of  the  rock  of  thought  like  fountains  of 
sweet  water  and  serve  as  translations  from  one  language  into 
another.  It  is  as  though  there  were  two  faces  to  every  situa- 
tion; one  full  in  the  light  so  that  it  can  be  described  as 
accurately  and  examined  as  minutely  as  possible;  the  other 
half  in  shadow  so  that  it  can  be  described  only  in  a  moment 
of  faith  and  vision  by  the  use  of  metaphor.  The  longer  the 
novelist  pores  over  his  analysis,  the  more  he  becomes  con- 
scious of  something  that  forever  escapes.  And  it  is  this  double 
vision  that  makes  the  work  of  Proust  to  us  in  our  generation 
so  spherical,  so  comprehensive.  Thus,  while  Emily  Bronte 
and  Herman  Melville  turn  the  novel  away  from  shore  out  to 
sea,  Proust  on  the  other  hand  rivets  his  eyes  on  men. 

And  here  we  may  pause,  not,  certainly,  that  there  are  no 
more  books  to  read  or  no  more  changes  of  mood  to  satisfy, 
but  for  a  reason  which  springs  from  the  youth  and  vigour 
of  the  art  itself.  We  can  imagine  so  many  different  sorts  of 
novels,  we  are  conscious  of  so  many  relations  and  suscepti- 
bilities the  novelist  had  not  expressed  that  we  break  off  in 
the  middle  with  Emily  Bronte  or  with  Tolstoy  without  any 
pretence  that  the  phases  of  fiction  are  complete  or  that  our 
desires  as  a  reader  have  received  full  satisfaction.  On  the 
contrary,  reading  excites  them;  they  well  up  and  make  us 
inarticulately  aware  of  a  dozen  different  novels  that  wait 
just  below  the  horizon  unwritten.  Hence  the  futility  at 
present  of  any  theory  of 'the  future  of  fiction'.  The  next  ten 
years  will  certainly  upset  it;  the  next  century  will  blow  it  to 
the  winds.  We  have  only  to  remember  the  comparative 
youth  of  the  novel,  that  it  is,  roughly  speaking,  about  the 
age  of  English  poetry  in  the  time  of  Shakespeare,  to  realize 
the  folly  of  any  summary,  or  theory  of  the  future  of  the  art. 
Moreover,  prose  itself  is  still  in  its  infancy,  and  capable,  no 
doubt,  of  infinite  change  and  development. 

139 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

But  our  rapid  journey  from  book  to  book  has  left  us  with 
some  notes  made  by  the  way  and  these  we  may  sort  out, 
not  so  much  to  seek  a  conclusion  as  to  express  the  brooding, 
the  meditative  mood  which  follows  the  activity  of  reading. 
So  then,  in  the  first  place,  even  though  the  time  at  our  dis- 
posal has  been  short,  we  have  travelled,  in  reading  these 
few  books,  a  great  distance  emotionally.  We  have  plodded 
soberly  along  the  high  road  talking  plain  sense  and  meeting 
many  interesting  adventures;  turning  romantic,  we  have 
lived  in  castles  and  been  hunted  on  moors  and  fought  gal- 
lantly and  died;  then  tired  of  this,  we  have  come  into  touch 
with  humanity  again,  at  first  romantically  prodigiously, 
enjoying  the  society  of  giants  and  dwarfs,  the  huge  and  the 
deformed,  and  then  again  tiring  of  this  extravagance,  have 
reduced  them,  by  means  of  Jane  Austen's  microscope,  to 
perfectly  proportioned  and  normal  men  and  women  and 
the  chaotic  world  to  English  parsonage,  shrubberies,  and 
lawns. 

But  a  shadow  next  falls  upon  that  bright  prospect,  distort- 
ing the  lovely  harmony  of  its  proportions.  The  shadow  of  our 
own  minds  has  fallen  upon  it  and  gradually  we  have  drawn 
within,  and  gone  exploring  with  Henry  James  endless  fila- 
ments of  feeling  and  relationship  in  which  men  and  women 
are  enmeshed,  and  so  we  have  been  led  on  with  Dostoevsky 
to  descend  miles  and  miles  into  the  deep  and  yeasty  surges 
of  the  soul. 

At  last  Proust  brings  the  light  of  an  immensely  civilized 
and  saturated  intelligence  to  bear  upon  this  chaos  and 
reveals  the  infinite  range  and  complexity  of  human  sen- 
sibility. But  in  following  him  we  lose  the  sense  of  outline, 
and  to  recover  it  seek  out  the  satirists  and  the  fantastics, 
who  stand  aloof  and  hold  the  world  at  a  distance  and 
eliminate  and  reduce  so  that  we  have  the  satisfaction  of 
seeing  round  things  after  being  immersed  in  them.  And  the 
satirists  and  the  fantastics,  like  Peacock  and  Sterne,  because 
of  their  detachment,  write  often  as  poets  write,  for  the  sake 
of  the  beauty  of  the  sentence  and  not  for  the  sake  of  its  use, 
and  so  stimulate  us  to  wish  for  poetry  in  the  novel.  Poetry, 

140 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

it  would  seem,  requires  a  different  ordering  of  the  scene; 
human  beings  are  needed,  but  needed  in  their  relation  to 
love,  or  death,  or  nature  rather  than  to  each  other.  For  this 
reason  their  psychology  is  simplified,  as  it  is  both  in  Mere- 
dith and  Hardy,  and  instead  of  feeling  the  intricacy  of  life, 
we  feel  its  passion,  its  tragedy.  In  Wuthering  Heights  and  in 
Moby  Dick  this  simplification,  far  from  being  empty,  has 
greatness,  and  we  feel  that  something  beyond,  which  is  not 
human  yet  does  not  destroy  their  humanity  or  the  actions. 
So,  briefly,  we  may  sum  up  our  impressions.  Brief  and  frag- 
mentary as  they  are,  we  have  gained  some  sense  of  the 
vastness  of  fiction  and  the  width  of  its  range. 

As  we  look  back  it  seems  that  the  novelist  can  do  anything. 
There  is  room  in  a  novel  for  story-telling,  for  comedy,  for 
tragedy,  for  criticism  and  information  and  philosophy  and 
poetry.  Something  of  its  appeal  lies  in  the  width  of  its  scope 
and  the  satisfaction  it  offers  to  so  many  different  moods, 
desires,  and  instincts  on  the  part  of  the  reader.  But  however 
the  novelist  may  vary  his  scene  and  alter  the  relations  of  one 
thing  to  another — and  as  we  look  back  we  see  the  whole 
world  in  perpetual  transformation — one  element  remains 
constant  in  all  novels,  and  that  is  the  human  element;  they 
are  about  people,  they  excite  in  us  the  feelings  that  people 
excite  in  us  in  real  life.  The  novel  is  the  only  form  of  art 
which  seeks  to  make  us  believe  that  it  is  giving  a  full  and 
truthful  record  of  the  life  of  a  real  person.  And  in  order  to 
give  that  full  record  of  life,  not  the  climax  and  the  crisis  but 
the  growth  and  development  of  feelings,  which  is  the  novel- 
ist's aim,  he  copies  the  order  of  the  day,  observes  the  sequence 
of  ordinary  things  even  if  such  fidelity  entails  chapters  of 
description  and  hours  of  research.  Thus  we  glide  into  the 
novel  with  far  less  effort  and  less  break  with  our  surround- 
ings than  into  any  other  form  of  imaginative  literature.  We 
seem  to  be  continuing  to  live,  only  in  another  house  or 
country  perhaps.  Our  most  habitual  and  natural  sympathies 
are  roused  with  the  first  words;  we  feel  them  expand  and 
contract,  in  liking  or  disliking,  hope  or  fear  on  every  page. 
We  watch  the  character  and  behaviour  of  Becky  Sharp  or 

141 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

Richard  Feverel  and  instinctively  come  to  an  opinion  about 
them  as  about  real  people,  tacitly  accepting  this  or  that 
impression,  judging  each  motive,  and  forming  the  opinion 
that  they  are  charming  but  insincere,  good  or  dull,  secretive 
but  interesting,  as  we  make  up  our  minds  about  the  char- 
acters of  the  people  we  meet. 

This  engaging  lack  of  artifice  and  the  strength  of  the 
emotion  that  he  is  able  to  excite  are  great  advantages  to  the 
novelist,  but  they  are  also  great  dangers.  For  it  is  inevitable 
that  the  reader  who  is  invited  to  live  in  novels  as  in  life 
should  go  on  feeling  as  he  feels  in  life.  Novel  and  life  are 
laid  side  by  side.  We  want  happiness  for  the  character  we 
like,  punishment  for  those  we  dislike.  We  have  secret  sym- 
pathies for  those  who  seem  to  resemble  us.  It  is  difficult  to 
admit  that  the  book  may  have  merit  if  it  outrages  our  sym- 
pathies, or  describes  a  life  which  seems  unreal  to  us.  Again 
we  are  acutely  aware  of  the  novelist's  character  and  specu- 
late upon  his  life  and  adventures.  These  personal  standards 
extend  in  every  direction,  for  every  sort  of  prejudice,  every 
sort  of  vanity,  can  be  snubbed  or  soothed  by  the  novelist. 
Indeed  the  enormous  growth  of  the  psychological  novel  in 
our  time  has  been  prompted  largely  by  the  mistaken  belief, 
which  the  reader  has  imposed  upon  the  novelist,  that  truth 
is  always  good;  even  when  it  is  the  truth  of  the  psycho- 
analyst and  not  the  truth  of  imagination. 

Such  vanities  and  emotions  on  the  part  of  the  reader  are 
perpetually  forcing  the  novelist  to  gratify  them.  And  the 
result,  though  it  may  give  the  novel  a  short  life  of  extreme 
vigour,  is,  as  we  know  even  while  we  are  enjoying  the  tears 
and  laughs  and  excitement  of  that  life,  fatal  to  its  endur- 
ance. For  the  accuracy  of  representation,  the  looseness  and 
simplicity  of  its  method,  its  denial  of  artifice  and  convention, 
its  immense  power  to  imitate  the  surface  reality — all  the 
qualities  that  make  a  novel  the  most  popular  form  of  litera- 
ture— also  make  it,  even  as  we  read  it,  turn  stale  and  perish 
on  our  hands.  Already  some  of  the  'great  novels'  of  the  past, 
like  Robert  Elsmere  or  Uncle  Tarn's  Cabin,  are  perished  except 
in  patches  because  they  were  originally  bolstered  up  with  so 

142 


PHASES     OF     FICTION 

much  that  had  virtue  and  vividness  only  for  those  who  lived 
at  the  moment  that  the  books  were  written.  Directly  manners 
change,  or  the  contemporary  idiom  alters,  page  after  page, 
chapter  after  chapter,  become  obsolete  and  lifeless. 

But  the  novelist  is  aware  of  this  too  and,  while  he  uses  the 
power  of  exciting  human  sympathy  which  belongs  to  him, 
he  also  attempts  to  control  it.  Indeed  the  first  sign  that  we 
are  reading  a  writer  of  merit  is  that  we  feel  this  control  at 
work  on  us.  The  barrier  between  us  and  the  book  is  raised 
higher.  We  do  not  slip  so  instinctively  and  so  easily  into  a 
world  that  we  know  already.  We  feel  that  we  are  being 
compelled  to  accept  an  order  and  to  arrange  the  elements 
of  the  novel — man,  nature,  God — in  certain  relations  at  the 
novelist's  bidding.  In  looking  back  at  the  few  novels  that  we 
have  glanced  at  here  we  can  see  how  astonishingly  we  lend 
ourselves  to  first  one  vision  and  then  to  another  which  is  its 
opposite.  We  obliterate  a  whole  universe  at  the  command  of 
Defoe;  we  see  every  blade  of  grass  and  snail  shell  at  the 
command  of  Proust.  From  the  first  page  we  feel  our  minds 
trained  upon  a  point  which  becomes  more  and  more  percep- 
tible as  the  book  proceeds  and  the  writer  brings  his  concep- 
tion out  of  darkness.  At  last  the  whole  is  exposed  to  view. 
And  then,  when  the  book  is  finished,  we  seem  to  see  (it  is 
strange  how  visual  the  impression  is)  something  girding  it 
about  like  the  firm  road  of  Defoe's  storytelling;  or  we  see  it 
shaped  and  symmetrical  with  dome  and  column  complete, 
like  Pride  and  Prejudice  and  Emma.  A  power  which  is  not  the 
power  of  accuracy  or  of  humour  or  of  pathos  is  also  used  by 
the  great  novelists  to  shape  their  work.  As  the  pages  are 
turned,  something  is  built  up  which  is  not  the  story  itself. 
And  this  power,  if  it  accentuates  and  concentrates  and  gives 
the  fluidity  of  the  novel  endurance  and  strength,  so  that  no 
novel  can  survive  even  a  few  years  without  it,  is  also  a 
danger.  For  the  most  characteristic  qualities  of  the  novel — 
that  it  registers  the  slow  growth  and  development  of  feeling, 
that  it  follows  many  lives  and  traces  their  unions  and  for- 
tunes over  a  long  stretch  of  time — are  the  very  qualities  that 
are  most  incompatible  with  design  and  order.  It  is  the  gift  of 

»43 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

style,  arrangement,  construction,  to  put  us  at  a  distance 
from  the  special  life  and  to  obliterate  its  features;  while  it  is 
the  gift  of  the  novel  to  bring  us  into  close  touch  with  life. 
The  two  powers  fight  if  they  are  brought  into  combination. 
The  most  complete  novelist  must  be  the  novelist  who  can 
balance  the  two  powers  so  that  the  one  enhances  the  other. 

This  would  seem  to  prove  that  the  novel  is  by  its  nature 
doomed  to  compromise,  wedded  to  mediocrity.  Its  province, 
one  may  conclude,  is  to  deal  with  the  commoner  but  weaker 
emotions;  to  express  the  bulk  and  not  the  essence  of  life. 
But  any  such  verdict  must  be  based  upon  the  supposition 
that  'the  novel'  has  a  certain  character  which  is  now  fixed 
and  cannot  be  altered,  that  'life'  has  a  certain  limit  which 
can  be  defined.  And  it  is  precisely  this  conclusion  that  the 
novels  we  have  been  reading  tend  to  upset. 

The  process  of  discovery  goes  on  perpetually.  Always 
more  of  life  is  being  reclaimed  and  recognized.  Therefore, 
to  fix  the  character  of  the  novel,  which  is  the  youngest  and 
most  vigorous  of  the  arts,  at  this  moment  would  be  like 
fixing  the  character  of  poetry  in  the  eighteenth  century  and 
saying  that  because  Gray's  Elegy  was  'poetry'  Don  Juan  was 
impossible.  An  art  practised  by  hosts  of  people,  sheltering 
diverse  minds,  is  also  bound  to  be  simmering,  volatile,  un- 
stable. And  for  some  reason  not  here  to  be  examined,  fiction 
is  the  most  hospitable  of  hosts;  fiction  to-day  draws  to  itself 
writers  who  would  even  yesterday  have  been  poets,  drama- 
tists, pamphleteers,  historians.  Thus  'the  novel',  as  we  still 
call  it  with  such  parsimony  of  language,  is  clearly  splitting 
apart  into  books  which  have  nothing  in  common  but  this 
one  inadequate  title.  Already  the  novelists  are  so  far  apart 
that  they  scarcely  communicate,  and  to  one  novelist  the 
work  of  another  is  quite  genuinely  unintelligible  or  quite 
genuinely  negligible. 

The  most  significant  proof  of  this  fertility,  however,  is 
provided  by  our  sense  of  feeling  something  that  has  not  yet 
been  said;  of  some  desire  still  unsatisfied.  A  very  general,  a 
very  elementary,  view  of  this  desire  would  seem  to  show  that 
it  points  in  two  directions.  Life — it  is  a  commonplace — is 

144 


PHASES    OF    FICTION 

growing  more  complex.  Our  self-consciousness  is  becoming 
far  more  alert  and  better  trained.  We  are  aware  of  relations 
and  subtleties  which  have  not  yet  been  explored.  Of  this 
school  Proust  is  the  pioneer,  and  undoubtedly  there  are  still 
to  be  born  writers  who  will  carry  the  analysis  of  Henry 
James  still  further,  who  will  reveal  and  relate  finer  threads 
of  feeling,  stranger  and  more  obscure  imaginations. 

But  also  we  desire  synthesis.  The  novel,  it  is  agreed,  can 
follow  life;  it  can  amass  details.  But  can  it  also  select?  Can  it 
symbolize?  Can  it  give  us  an  epitome  as  well  as  an  inventory? 
It  was  some  such  function  as  this  that  poetry  discharged  in 
the  past.  But,  whether  for  the  moment  or  for  some  longer 
time,  poetry  with  her  rhythms,  her  poetic  diction,  her  strong 
flavour  of  tradition,  is  too  far  from  us  to-day  to  do  for  us 
what  she  did  for  our  parents.  Prose  perhaps  is  the  instrument 
best  fitted  to  the  complexity  and  difficulty  of  modern  life. 
And  prose — we  have  to  repeat  it — is  still  so  youthful  that  we 
scarcely  know  what  powers  it  may  not  hold  concealed 
within  it.  Thus  it  is  possible  that  the  novel  in  time  to  come 
may  differ  as  widely  from  the  novel  of  Tolstoy  and  Jane 
Austen  as  the  poetry  of  Browning  and  Byron  differs  from 
the  poetry  of  Lydgate  and  Spenser.  In  time  to  come — but 
time  to  come  lies  far  beyond  our  province. 


H5 


PART    II 

THE  ART  OF  BIOGRAPHY 


The  New  Biography1 

'r  I  1HE  aim  of  biography',  said  Sir  Sydney  Lee,  who  had 
A  perhaps  read  and  written  more  lives  than  any  man  of 
his  time,  'is  the  truthful  transmission  of  personality',  and  no 
single  sentence  could  more  neatly  split  up  into  two  parts  the 
whole  problem  of  biography  as  it  presents  itself  to  us  to-day. 
On  the  one  hand  there  is  truth;  on  the  other  there  is  per- 
sonality. And  if  we  think  of  truth  as  something  of  granite- 
like solidity  and  of  personality  as  something  of  rainbow-like 
intangibility  and  reflect  that  the  aim  of  biography  is  to  weld 
these  two  into  one  seamless  whole,  we  shall  admit  that  the 
problem  is  a  stiff  one  and  that  we  need  not  wonder  if  bio- 
graphers have  for  the  most  part  failed  to  solve  it. 

For  the  truth  of  which  Sir  Sidney  speaks,  the  truth  which 
biography  demands,  is  truth  in  its  hardest,  most  obdurate 
form;  it  is  truth  as  truth  is  to  be  found  in  the  British  Museum; 
it  is  truth  out  of  which  all  vapour  of  falsehood  has  been 
pressed  by  the  weight  of  research.  Only  when  truth  had 
been  thus  established  did  Sir  Sidney  Lee  use  it  in  the  build- 
ing of  his  monument;  and  no  one  can  be  so  foolish  as  to  deny 
that  the  piles  be  raised  of  such  hard  facts,  whether  one  is 
called  Shakespeare  or  King  Edward  the  Seventh,  are  worthy 
of  all  our  respect.  For  there  is  a  virtue  in  truth;  it  has  an 
almost  mystic  power.  Like  radium,  it  seems  able  to  give  off 
forever  and  ever  grains  of  energy,  atoms  of  light.  It  stimulates 
the  mind,  which  is  endowed  with  a  curious  susceptibility  in 
this  direction  as  no  fiction,  however  artful  or  highly  coloured, 
can  stimulate  it.  Truth  being  thus  efficacious  and  supreme, 
we  can  only  explain  the  fact  that  Sir  Sidney's  life  of  Shake- 
speare is  dull,  and  that  his  life  of  Edward  the  Seventh 
is  unreadable,  by  supposing  that  though  both  are  stuffed 
with  truth,  he  failed  to  choose  those  truths  which  transmit 
1  New  York  Herald  Tribune,  October  30,  1927. 
149 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

personality.  For  in  order  that  the  light  of  personality  may 
shine  through,  facts  must  be  manipulated;  some  must  be 
brightened;  others  shaded;  yet,  in  the  process,  they  must 
never  lose  their  integrity.  And  it  is  obvious  that  it  is  easier  to 
obey  these  precepts  by  considering  that  the  true  life  of  your 
subject  shows  itself  in  action  which  is  evident  rather  than  in 
that  inner  life  of  thought  and  emotion  which  meanders 
darkly  and  obscurely  through  the  hidden  channels  of  the 
soul.  Hence,  in  the  old  days,  the  biographer  chose  the  easier 
path.  A  life,  even  when  it  was  lived  by  a  divine,  was  a  series 
of  exploits.  The  biographer,  whether  he  was  Izaak  Walton  or 
Mrs.  Hutchinson  or  that  unknown  writer  who  is  often  so 
surprisingly  eloquent  on  tombstones  and  memorial  tablets, 
told  a  tale  of  battle  and  victory.  With  their  stately  phrasing 
and  their  deliberate  artistic  purpose,  such  records  transmit 
personality  with  a  formal  sincerity  which  is  perfectly  satis- 
factory of  its  kind.  And  so,  perhaps,  biography  might  have 
pursued  its  way,  draping  the  robes  decorously  over  the 
recumbent  figures  of  the  dead,  had  there  not  arisen  toward 
the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century  one  of  those  curious  men 
of  genius  who  seem  able  to  break  up  the  stiffness  into  which 
the  company  has  fallen  by  speaking  in  his  natural  voice.  So 
Boswell  spoke.  So  we  hear  booming  out  from  Boswell's  page 
the  voice  of  Samuel  Johnson.  'No,  sir;  stark  insensibility', 
we  hear  him  say.  Once  we  have  heard  those  words  we  are 
aware  that  there  is  an  incalculable  presence  among  us  which 
will  go  on  ringing  and  reverberating  in  widening  circles 
however  times  may  change  and  ourselves.  All  the  draperies 
and  decencies  of  biography  fall  to  the  ground.  We  can  no 
longer  maintain  that  life  consists  in  actions  only  or  in  works. 
It  consists  in  personality.  Something  has  been  liberated 
beside  which  all  else  seems  cold  and  colourless.  We  are 
freed  from  a  servitude  which  is  now  seen  to  be  intolerable. 
No  longer  need  we  pass  solemnly  and  stiffly  from  camp  to 
council  chamber.  We  may  sit,  even  with  the  great  and  good, 
over  the  table  and  talk. 

Through  the  influence  of  Boswell,  presumably,  biography 
all  through  the  nineteenth  century  concerned  itself  as  much 

150 


THE    NEW    BIOGRAPHY 

with  the  lives  of  the  sedentary  as  with  the  lives  of  the  active. 
It  sought  painstakingly  and  devotedly  to  express  not  only 
the  outer  life  of  work  and  activity  but  the  inner  life  of  emo- 
tion and  thought.  The  uneventful  lives  of  poets  and  painters 
were  written  out  as  lengthily  as  the  lives  of  soldiers  and 
statesmen.  But  the  Victorian  biography  was  a  parti-coloured, 
hybrid,  monstrous  birth.  For  though  truth  of  fact  was  ob- 
served as  scrupulously  as  Boswell  observed  it,  the  personality 
which  Boswell's  genius  set  free  was  hampered  and  distorted. 
The  convention  which  Boswell  had  destroyed  settled  again, 
only  in  a  different  form,  upon  biographers  who  lacked  his 
art.  Where  the  Mrs.  Hutchinsons  and  the  Izaak  Waltons 
had  wished  to  prove  that  their  heroes  were  prodigies  of 
courage  and  learning  the  Victorian  biographer  was  domi- 
nated by  the  idea  of  goodness.  Noble,  upright,  chaste, 
severe;  it  is  thus  that  the  Victorian  worthies  are  presented  to 
us.  The  figure  is  almost  always  above  life  size  in  top-hat  and 
frock-coat,  and  the  manner  of  presentation  becomes  increas- 
ingly clumsy  and  laborious.  For  lives  which  no  longer  express 
themselves  in  action  take  shape  in  innumerable  words.  The 
conscientious  biographer  may  not  tell  a  fine  tale  with  a  flour- 
ish, but  must  toil  through  endless  labyrinths  and  embarrass 
himself  with  countless  documents.  In  the  end  he  produces 
an  amorphous  mass,  a  life  of  Tennyson,  or  of  Gladstone, 
in  which  we  go  seeking  disconsolately  for  voice  or  laughter, 
for  curse  or  anger,  for  any  trace  that  this  fossil  was  once 
a  living  man.  Often,  indeed,  we  bring  back  some  invaluable 
trophy,  for  Victorian  biographies  are  laden  with  truth;  but 
always  we  rummage  among  them  with  a  sense  of  the  prodig- 
ious waste,  of  the  artistic  wrongheadedness  of  such  a  method. 
With  the  twentieth  century,  however,  a  change  came  over 
biography,  as  it  came  over  fiction  and  poetry.  The  first  and 
most  visible  sign  of  it  was  in  the  difference  in  size.  In  the 
first  twenty  years  of  the  new  century  biographies  must  have 
lost  half  their  weight.  Mr.  Strachey  compressed  four  stout 
Victorians  into  one  slim  volume;  M.  Maurois  boiled  the 
usual  two  volumes  of  a  Shelley  life  into  one  little  book 
the  size  of  a  novel.  But  the  diminution  of  size  was  only  the 

151 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

outward  token  of  an  inward  change.  The  point  of  view  had 
completely  altered.  If  we  open  one  of  the  new  school  of 
biographies  its  bareness,  its  emptiness  makes  us  at  once 
aware  that  the  author's  relation  to  his  subject  is  different. 
He  is  no  longer  the  serious  and  sympathetic  companion, 
toiling  even  slavishly  in  the  footsteps  of  his  hero.  Whether 
friend  or  enemy,  admiring  or  critical,  he  is  an  equal.  In  any 
case,  he  preserves  his  freedom  and  his  right  to  independent 
judgment.  Moreover,  he  does  not  think  himself  constrained 
to  follow  every  step  of  the  way.  Raised  upon  a  little  eminence 
which  his  independence  has  made  for  him,  he  sees  his  subject 
spread  about  him.  He  chooses;  he  synthesizes;  in  short,  he 
has  ceased  to  be  the  chronicler;  he  has  become  an  artist. 

Few  books  illustrate  the  new  attitude  to  biography  better 
than  Some  People,  by  Harold  Nicolson.  In  his  biographies  of 
Tennyson  and  of  Byron  Mr.  Nicolson  followed  the  path 
which  had  been  already  trodden  by  Mr.  Strachey  and 
others.  Here  he  has  taken  a  step  on  his  own  initiative.  For 
here  he  has  devised  a  method  of  writing  about  people  and 
about  himself  as  though  they  were  at  once  real  and  imagin- 
ary. He  has  succeeded  remarkably,  if  not  entirely,  in  making 
the  best  of  both  worlds.  Some  People  is  not  fiction  because  it 
has  the  substance,  the  reality  of  truth.  It  is  not  biography 
because  it  has  the  freedom,  the  artistry  of  fiction.  And  if  we 
try  to  discover  how  he  has  won  the  liberty  which  enables  him 
to  present  us  with  these  extremely  amusing  pages  we  must 
in  the  first  place  credit  him  with  having  had  the  courage  to 
rid  himself  of  a  mountain  of  illusion.  An  English  diplomat  is 
offered  all  the  bribes  which  usually  induce  people  to  swallow 
humbug  in  large  doses  with  composure.  If  Mr.  Nicolson 
wrote  about  Lord  Curzon  it  should  have  been  solemnly.  If 
he  mentioned  the  Foreign  Office  it  should  have  been 
respectfully.  His  tone  toward  the  world  of  Bognors  and 
Whitehall  should  have  been  friendly  but  devout.  But  thanks 
to  a  number  of  influences  and  people,  among  whom  one 
might  mention  Max  Beerbohm  and  Voltaire,  the  attitude 
of  the  bribed  and  docile  official  has  been  blown  to  atoms. 
Mr.  Nicolson  laughs.  He  laughs  at  Lord  Curzon;  he  laughs 

!52 


THE    NEW    BIOGRAPHY 

at  the  Foreign  Office;  he  laughs  at  himself.  And  since  his 
laughter  is  the  laughter  of  the  intelligence  it  has  the  effect  of 
making  us  take  the  people  he  laughs  at  seriously.  The  figure 
of  Lord  Curzon  concealed  behind  the  figure  of  a  drunken 
valet  is  touched  off  with  merriment  and  irreverence;  yet  of 
all  the  studies  of  Lord  Curzon  which  have  been  written 
since  his  death  none  makes  us  think  more  kindly  of  that 
preposterous  but,  it  appears,  extremely  human  man. 

So  it  would  seem  as  if  one  of  the  great  advantages  of  the 
new  school  to  which  Mr.  Nicolson  belongs  is  the  lack  of 
pose,  humbug,  solemnity.  They  approach  their  bigwigs 
fearlessly.  They  have  no  fixed  scheme  of  the  universe,  no 
standard  of  courage  or  morality  to  which  they  insist  that  he 
shall  conform.  The  man  himself  is  the  supreme  object  of 
their  curiosity.  Further,  and  it  is  this  chiefly  which  has  so 
reduced  the  bulk  of  biography,  they  maintain  that  the  man 
himself,  the  pith  and  essence  of  his  character,  shows  itself  to 
the  observant  eye  in  the  tone  of  a  voice,  the  turn  of  a  head, 
some  little  phrase  or  anecdote  picked  up  in  passing.  Thus 
in  two  subtle  phrases,  in  one  passage  of  brilliant  description, 
whole  chapters  of  the  Victorian  volume  are  synthesized  and 
summed  up.  Some  People  is  full  of  examples  of  this  new  phase 
of  the  biographer's  art.  Mr.  Nicolson  wants  to  describe  a 
governess  and  he  tells  us  that  she  had  a  drop  at  the  end  of 
her  nose  and  made  him  salute  the  quarterdeck.  He  wants  to 
describe  Lord  Curzon,  and  he  makes  him  lose  his  trousers 
and  recite  'Tears,  Idle  Tears'.  He  does  not  cumber  himself 
with  a  single  fact  about  them.  He  waits  till  they  have  said 
or  done  something  characteristic,  and  then  he  pounces  on 
it  with  glee.  But,  though  he  waits  with  an  intention  of 
pouncing  which  might  well  make  his  victims  uneasy  if  they 
guessed  it,  he  lays  suspicion  by  appearing  himself  in  his  own 
proper  person  in  no  flattering  light.  He  has  a  scrubby 
dinner-jacket,  he  tells  us;  a  pink  bumptious  face,  curly  hair, 
and  a  curly  nose.  He  is  as  much  the  subject  of  his  own  irony 
and  observation  as  they  are.  He  lies  in  wait  for  his  own 
absurdities  as  artfully  as  for  theirs.  Indeed,  by  the  end  of  the 
book  we  realize  that  the  figure  which  has  been  most  com- 

153 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

pletely  and  most  subtly  displayed  is  that  of  the  author.  Each 
of  the  supposed  subjects  holds  up  in  his  or  her  small  bright 
diminishing  mirror  a  different  reflection  of  Harold  Nicolson. 
And  though  the  figure  thus  revealed  is  not  noble  or  impres- 
sive or  shown  in  a  very  heroic  attitude,  it  is  for  these  very 
reasons  extremely  like  a  real  human  being.  It  is  thus,  he  would 
seem  to  say,  in  the  mirrors  of  our  friends,  that  we  chiefly  live. 

To  have  contrived  this  effect  is  a  triumph  not  of  skill  only, 
but  of  those  positive  qualities  which  we  are  likely  to  treat  as 
if  they  were  negative — freedom  from  pose,  from  sentimen- 
tality, from  illusion.  And  the  victory  is  definite  enough  to 
leave  us  asking  what  territory  it  has  won  for  the  art  of 
biography.  Mr.  Nicolson  has  proved  that  one  can  use  many 
of  the  devices  of  fiction  in  dealing  with  real  life.  He  has 
shown  that  a  little  fiction  mixed  with  fact  can  be  made  to 
transmit  personality  very  effectively.  But  some  objections  or 
qualifications  suggest  themselves.  Undoubtedly  the  figures 
in  Some  People  are  all  rather  below  life  size.  The  irony  with 
which  they  are  treated,  though  it  has  its  tenderness,  stunts 
their  growth.  It  dreads  nothing  more  than  that  one  of  these 
little  beings  should  grow  up  and  becomes  serious  or  perhaps 
tragic.  And,  again,  they  never  occupy  the  stage  for  more 
than  a  few  brief  moments.  They  do  not  want  to  be  looked  at 
very  closely.  They  have  not  a  great  deal  to  show  us.  Mr. 
Nicolson  makes  us  feel,  in  short,  that  he  is  playing  with  very 
dangerous  elements.  An  incautious  movement  and  the  book 
will  be  blown  sky  high.  He  is  trying  to  mix  the  truth  of  real 
life  and  the  truth  of  fiction.  He  can  only  do  it  by  using  no 
more  than  a  pinch  of  either.  For  though  both  truths  are 
genuine,  they  are  antagonistic;  let  them  meet  and  they 
destroy  each  other.  Even  here,  where  the  imagination  is  not 
deeply  engaged,  when  we  find  people  whom  we  know  to  be 
real  like  Lord  Oxford  or  Lady  Colefax,  mingling  with  Miss 
Plimsoll  and  Marstock,  whose  reality  we  doubt,  the  one 
casts  suspicion  upon  the  other.  Let  it  be  fact,  one  feels,  or 
let  it  be  fiction;  the  imagination  will  not  serve  under  two 
masters  simultaneously. 

And  here  we  again  approach  the  difficulty  which,  for  all 

154 


THE     NEW    BIOGRAPHY 

his  ingenuity,  the  biographer  still  has  to  face.  Truth  of  fact 
and  truth  of  fiction  are  incompatible;  yet  he  is  now  more 
than  ever  urged  to  combine  them.  For  it  would  seem  that 
the  life  which  is  increasingly  real  to  us  is  the  fictitious  life;  it 
dwells  in  the  personality  rather  than  in  the  act.  Each  of  us 
is  more  Hamlet,  Prince  of  Denmark,  than  he  is  John  Smith 
of  the  Corn  Exchange.  Thus,  the  biographer's  imagination 
is  always  being  stimulated  to  use  the  novelist's  art  of  arrange- 
ment, suggestion,  dramatic  effect  to  expound  the  private 
life.  Yet  if  he  carries  the  use  of  fiction  too  far,  so  that  he  dis- 
regards the  truth,  or  can  only  introduce  it  with  incongruity, 
he  loses  both  worlds;  he  has  neither  the  freedom  of  fiction 
nor  the  substance  of  fact.  Boswell's  astonishing  power  over 
us  is  based  largely  upon  his  obstinate  veracity,  so  that  we 
have  implicit  belief  in  what  he  tells  us.  When  Johnson  says 
'No,  sir;  stark  insensibility',  the  voice  has  a  ring  in  it  because 
we  have  been  told,  soberly  and  prosaically,  a  few  pages 
earlier,  that  Johnson  'was  entered  a  Commoner  of  Pem- 
broke, on  the  31st  of  October,  1728,  being  then  in  his  nine- 
teenth year'.  We  are  in  the  world  of  brick  and  pavement;  of 
birth,  marriage,  and  death;  of  Acts  of  Parliament;  of  Pitt 
and  Burke  and  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds.  Whether  this  is  a  more 
real  world  than  the  world  of  Bohemia  and  Hamlet  and 
Macbeth  we  doubt;  but  the  mixture  of  the  two  is  abhorrent. 
Be  that  as  it  may  we  can  assure  ourselves  by  a  very  simple 
experiment  that  the  days  of  Victorian  biography  are  over. 
Consider  one's  own  life;  pass  under  review  a  few  years  that 
one  has  actually  lived.  Conceive  how  Lord  Morley  would 
have  expounded  them;  how  Sir  Sidney  Lee  would  have 
documented  them;  how  strangely  all  that  has  been  most  real 
in  them  would  have  slipped  through  their  fingers.  Nor  can 
we  name  the  biographer  whose  art  is  subtle  and  bold  enough 
to  present  that  queer  amalgamation  of  dream  and  reality, 
that  perpetual  marriage  of  granite  and  rainbow.  His  method 
still  remains  to  be  discovered.  But  Mr.  Nicolson  with  his 
mixture  of  biography  and  autobiography,  of  fact  and  fiction, 
of  Lord  Curzon's  trousers  and  Miss  Plimsoll's  nose,  waves 
his  hand  airily  in  a  possible  direction. 

155 


A  Talk  about  Memoirs' 

JUDITH:  I  wonder — shall  I  give  my  bird  a  real  beak  or 
an  orange  one?  Whatever  they  may  say,  silks  have  been 
ruined  by  the  war.  But  what  are  you  looking  behind  the 
curtain  for?  Ann:  There  is  no  gentleman  present?  Judith: 
None,  unless  you  count  the  oil  portrait  of  Uncle  John.  Ann: 
Oh,  then,  we  can  talk  about  the  Greeks!  There  is  not  a  single 
memoir  in  the  whole  of  Greek  literature.  There!  You  can't 
contradict  me;  and  so  we  go  on  to  wonder  how  the  ladies  of 
the  race  spent  the  morning  when  it  was  wet  and  the  hours 
between  tea  and  dinner  when  it  was  dark.  Judith:  The  morn- 
ings never  are  wet  in  Athens.  Then  they  don't  drink  tea. 
They  drink  a  red  sweet  stuff  out  of  glasses,  and  eat  lumps  of 
Turkish  delight  with  it.  Ann:  Ah,  that  explains!  A  dry,  hot 
climate,  no  twilight,  wine,  and  blue  sky.  In  England  the 
atmosphere  is  naturally  aqueous,  and  as  if  there  weren't 
enough  outside,  we  drench  ourselves  with  tea  and  coffee  at 
least  four  times  a  day.  It's  atmosphere  that  makes  English 
literature  unlike  any  other — clouds,  sunsets,  fogs,  exhala- 
tions, miasmas.  And  I  believe  that  the  element  of  water  is 
supplied  chiefly  by  the  memoir  writers.  Look  what  great 
swollen  books  they  are!  (She  lifts  five  volumes  in  her  hands, 
one  after  another.)  Dropsical.  Still,  there  are  times — I  sup- 
pose it's  the  lack  of  wine  in  my  blood — when  the  mere 
thought  of  a  classic  is  repulsive.  Judith:  I  agree  with  you. 
The  classics — oh  dear,  what  was  I  going  to  say? — something 
very  wise,  I  know.  But  I  can't  embroider  a  parrot  and  talk 
about  Milton  in  the  same  breath.  Ann:  Whereas  you  could 
embroider  a  parrot  and  talk  about  Lady  Georgiana  Peel? 
Judith:  Precisely.  Do  tell  me  about  Lady  Georgiana  Peel 
and  the  rest.  Those  are  the  books  I  love.  Ann:  I  do  more  than 
love  them;  I  reverence  them  as  the  parents  and  begetters  of 
1  New  Statesman,  March  6,  1920. 
156 


A    TALK    ABOUT    MEMOIRS 

our  race.  And  if  I  knew  Mr.  Lytton  Strachey,  I'd  tell  him 
what  I  think  of  him  for  behaving  disrespectfully  of  the  great 
English  art  of  biography.  My  dear  Judith,  I  had  a  vision 
last  night  of  a  widow  with  a  taper  setting  fire  to  a  basketful 
of  memoirs — half  a  million  words — two  volumes — stout — 
blue — with  a  crest — genealogical  trees — family  portraits — 
all  complete.  'Art  be  damned!'  I  cried,  and  woke  in  a 
frenzy.  Judith:  Well,  I  fancy  she  heard  you.  But  let's  begin 
on  Lady  Georgiana  Peel.  Ann:  Lady  Georgiana  Peel  l  was 
born  in  the  year  1836,  and  was  the  daughter  of  Lord  John 
Russell.  The  Russells  are  said  to  be  descended  from  Thor, 
the  God  of  Thunder;  their  more  direct  ancestor  being  one 
Henri  de  Rozel,  who,  in  the  eleventh  century —  Judith: 
We'll  take  their  word  for  it.  Ann:  Very  well.  But  don't  forget 
it.  The  Russells  are  cold  in  temperament,  contradictious  by 
nature.  Ahem!  Lord  and  Lady  John  were  resting  under  an 
oak  tree  in  Richmond  Park  when  Lord  John  remarked  how 
pleasant  it  would  be  to  live  in  that  white  house  behind  the 
palings  for  the  rest  of  their  lives.  No  sooner  said  than  the 
owner  falls  ill  and  dies.  The  Queen,  with  that  unfailing 
insight,  etc.,  sends  for  Lord  John,  etc.,  and  offers  him  the 
lodge  for  life,  etc.,  etc.,  etc.  I  mean  they  lived  happily  ever 
after,  though  as  time  went  by,  a  factory  chimney  somewhat 
spoilt  the  view.  Judith:  And  Lady  Georgiana?  Ann:  Well, 
there's  not  much  about  Lady  Georgiana.  She  saw  the 
Queen  having  her  hair  brushed,  and  she  went  to  stay  at 
Woburn.  And  what  d'you  think  they  did  there?  They  threw 
mutton  chops  out  of  the  window  '  for  whoever  cared  to  pick 
them  up'.  And  each  guest  had  a  piece  of  paper  by  his  plate 
'in  which  to  wrap  up  an  eatable  for  the  people  waiting 
outside'.  Judith:  Mutton  chops!  people  waiting  outside! 
Ann:  Ah,  now  the  charm  begins  to  work.  A  snowy  Christmas 
— imagine  a  fair-haired  little  girl  at  the  window — early  in 
the  forties  the  scene  is— frost  on  the  ground — a  mutton  chop 
descending.  Don't  you  see  all  the  arms  going  up  and  the  poor 
wretches  trampling  the  flower-beds  in  their  struggles?  But, 

1  Recollections  of  Lady  Georgiana  Peel.  Compiled  by  her  daughter  Ethel 
Peel. 

157 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

'I  think',  she  says,  'the  custom  died  out.'  And  then  she 
married,  and  her  husband's  riding  was  the  pride  of  the 
county;  and  when  he  won  a  race  he  gave  something  to  the 
village  church.  But  I  don't  know  that  there's  much  more  to 
be  said.  Judith:  Please  go  on.  The  charm  is  working;  I'm  not 
asleep;  I'm  in  the  drawing-room  at  Woburn  in  the  forties. 
Ann:  Lady  Georgiana  being,  as  I  told  you,  descended  from 
the  God  of  Thunder,  is  not  one  to  take  liberties  with  life. 
The  scene  is  a  little  empty.  There's  Charles  Dickens  wearing 
a  pink  shirt  front  embroidered  with  white;  the  Russell 
mausoleum  in  the  background;  sailors  with  icicles  hanging 
from  their  whiskers;  the  Grosvenor  boys  shooting  snipe  in 
Belgrave  Square;  Lord  John  handing  the  Queen  down  to 
dinner — and  so  forth.  Let's  consult  Mr.  Bridges.1  He  may 
help  us  to  fill  it  in.  'Our  mothers  were  modelled  as  closely  as 
might  be  on  the  example  of  the  Great  Queen.  ...  If  they 
were  not  always  either  beautiful  or  wise  they  gained  love 
and  respect  everywhere  without  being  either.  .  .  .  But,  what- 
ever happens,  women  will  still  be  women  and  men  men.' 
Shall  I  go  on  skipping?  Judith:  I  seem  to  gather  that  the  wall- 
papers were  dark  and  the  sideboards  substantial.  Ann:  Yes, 
but  we've  too  much  furniture  already.  Life  is  what  we  want. 
(She  turns  over  the  pages  of  several  volumes  without  saying 
anything.)  Judith:  Oh,  Ann;  it's  fearfully  dull  at  Woburn  in 
the  forties.  Moreover,  my  parrot  is  turning  into  a  sacred 
fowl.  I  shall  be  presenting  him  to  the  village  church  next. 
Is  no  one  coming  to  call?  Ann:  Wait  a  moment.  I  fancy  I  see 
Miss  Dempster2  approaching.  Judith:  Quick;  let  me  look 
at  her  picture.  A  devout,  confidential  lady — Bedchamber 
woman  to  Queen  Victoria,  I  should  guess.  I  can  fancy  her 
murmuring:  'Poor,  poor  Princess';  or,  'Dearest  Lady  Char- 
lotte has  had  a  sad  loss  in  the  death  of  her  favourite  gillie', 
as  she  extracts  from  the  Royal  Head  a  sleek  tortoiseshell  pin 
and  lays  it  reverently  in  the  golden  tray.  By  the  way,  can  you 
imagine  Queen  Victoria's  hair?  I  can't.  Ann:  Lady  Geor- 
giana says  it  was  'long  and  fair'.  Be  that  as  it  may,  Miss 

1    Victorian  Recollections,  by  John  A.  Bridges. 
2   The  Manners  of  My  Time,  by  C.  L.  H.  Dempster. 

158 


A    TALK    ABOUT    MEMOIRS 

Dempster  had  nothing  to  do  with  her  hair-pins— save  that, 
I  think  it  likely  her  daydreams  took  that  direction.  She  was 
a  penniless  lass  with  a  long  pedigree;  Scotch,  of  course, 
moving  in  the  best  society — '  one  of  the  Shropshire  Corbets 
who  (through  the  Leycesters)  is  a  cousin  of  Dean  Stanley' — 
that's  her  way  of  describing  people;  and  for  my  part  I  find 
it  very  descriptive.  But  wait — here's  a  scene  that  promises 
well.  Imagine  the  terrace  of  the  Blythswoods'  villa  at  Cannes. 
An  eclipse  of  the  moon  is  taking  place;  the  Emperor  Dom 
Pedro  of  Portugal  has  his  eye  fixed  to  the  telescope;  it  is 
chilly,  and  a  copper-coloured  haze  suffuses  the  sky.  Mean- 
while, Miss  Dempster  and  the  Prince  of  Hohenzollern  walk 
up  and  down  talking.  What  d'ye  think  they  talk  about?  .  .  . 
'we  agreed  that  it  had  never  occurred  to  us  before  that 
somewhere  our  Earth's  shadow  must  be  ever  falling.  .  .  . 
Speaking  of  the  dark  and  shadowed  days  of  human  life  I 
quoted  Mrs.  Browning's  lines:  "Think,  the  passing  of  a  trail, 
To  the  nature  most  undone,  Like  the  shadow  on  the  dial, 
Proves  the  presence  of  the  sun.''''''  You  don't  want  to  hear 
about  the  death  of  the  Duke  of  Albany  and  his  appearance 
in  his  coffin  or  the  Emperor  of  Germany  and  his  cancer? 
Judith:  For  Heaven's  sake,  no!  Ann:  Well,  then,  we  must 
shut  up  Miss  Dempster.  But  isn't  it  queer  how  Lady  Geor- 
giana  and  the  rest  have  made  us  feel  like  naughty,  dirty, 
mischievous  children?  I  don't  altogether  enjoy  the  feeling, 
and  yet  there  is  something  august  in  their  unyielding  author- 
ity. They  have  fronts  of  brass;  not  a  doubt  or  a  desire  dis- 
turbs them  outwardly;  and  so  they  proceed  over  a  world 
which  for  us  is  alternately  a  desert  or  a  flowering  wilderness 
stuck  about  with  burning  bushes  and  mocking  macaws,  as  if 
it  were  Piccadilly  or  the  Cromwell  Road  at  three  o'clock  in 
the  afternoon.  I  detect  passions  and  pieties  and  convictions 
all  dumb  and  deep  sunk  which  serve  them  for  a  kind  of 
spiritual  petrol.  What,  my  dear  Judith,  have  we  got  in  its 
place?  Judith:  If,  like  me,  you'd  been  sitting  in  the  drawing- 
room  at  Woburn  for  the  past  fifty  years,  you  would  be  feeling 
a  little  stiff.  Did  they  never  amuse  themselves?  Was  death 
their  only  amusement,  and  rank  their  sole  romance?  Ann: 

159 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

There  were  horses.  I  see  your  eyes  turned  with  longing  to 
Dorothea  Conyers  l  and  John  Porter.2  Now  you  can  get  up 
and  come  to  the  stables.  Now,  I  assure  you,  things  are  going 
to  hum  a  little.  In  both  these  books  we  get  what  I  own  was 
somewhat  disguised  in  the  others — a  passion  for  life.  I  con- 
fess that  I  like  John  Porter's  view  of  life  better  than  Dorothea 
Conyers',  though,  from  the  lips  of  a  novelist,  there  is  charm 
in  her  reflection:  'Unfortunately,  I  shall  never  be  a  popular 
short-story  writer:  I  do  something  just  wrong';  one  feels 
inclined  to  tell  her  to  shorten  her  stirrups  or  have  her  fet- 
locks fired  and  see  whether  that  wouldn't  do  the  trick.  But 
this  cherry-cheeked  elderly  gentleman,  this  quintessence  of 
all  good  coachmen  and  trusty  servants,  this  lean  old  trainer 
with  his  shrewd  little  eyes,  and  the  horseshoe  tiepin  and  the 
look  of  integrity  and  service  honestly  performed,  of  devo- 
tion given  and  returned — I  can't  help  feeling  that  he  is  the 
pick  of  the  bunch.  I  like  his  assumption  that  the  whole 
world  exists  for  racing,  or,  as  he  is  careful  to  put  it,  for  '  the 
amelioration  of  the  thoroughbred'.  I  like  the  warmth  with 
which  he  praises  his  horses  for  holding  their  own  on  the  course 
and  begetting  fine  children  at  the  stud.  '  I  thought  the  world 
of  him,'  he  says  of  Isonomy,  'and  his  achievements  as  a  sire 
strengthened  my  regard  and  admiration.'  'That  the  horse  I 
almost  worshipped  was  afflicted  with  wind  infirmity',  he 
says  in  another  place,  nearly  killed  him;  and  when  Ormonde, 
for  he  it  was,  proved  incurable  and  went  to  Australia,  John 
Porter  plucked  a  few  hairs  from  tail  and  mane  to  keep, 
doubtless  in  some  inner  pocket,  '  as  a  memento  of  a  great 
and  noble  creature'.  What  character  he  detects  in  them, 
and  how  humanely  he  respects  it!  Madam  Eglantyne  must 
be  humoured  in  her  fancy  to  be  delivered  of  her  children 
under  a  tree  in  the  park.  Sir  Joseph  Hawley — not  a  race- 
horse, but  the  owner  of  race-horses — what  a  character — 
what  a  fine  fellow  he  was!— 'a  really  great  man  ...  a  noble 
friend  to  me  and  my  family  .  .  .  stern,  straight  and  fearless'; 

1  Sporting  Reminiscences,  by  Dorothea  Conyers. 

2  John  Porter  of  Kingsclere.  An  anthology  written  in  collaboration  with 
Edward  Monkhouse. 

1 60 


A    TALK    ABOUT    MEMOIRS 

so  John  Porter  writes  of  him,  and  when  the  Baronet  for  the 
last  time  left  his  cigar  to  waste  on  the  mantelpiece,  John 
Porter  pocketed  the  ashes  and  has  them  now  'put  carefully 
away'  in  memory  of  his  master.  Then  I  like  to  read  how 
Ormonde  was  born  at  half-past  six  on  a  Sunday  evening,  as 
the  stable  boys  were  going  to  Church,  with  a  mane  three 
inches  long,  and  how  always  at  the  critical  moment  Fred 
Archer  made  a  little  movement  in  the  saddle  and  '  lengthen- 
ing his  stride,  Ormonde  shot  ahead,  to  win  in  a  canter';  and 
how  he  was  not  only  a  giant  among  giants,  but,  like  all 
magnanimous  heroes,  had  the  disposition  of  a  lamb,  and 
would  eat  cakes  and  carnations  out  of  a  Queen's  hand.  How 
splendid  we  should  think  it  if  it  were  written  in  Greek! 
Indeed,  how  Greek  it  all  is!  Judith:  Are  you  sure  there  is 
nothing  about  the  village  church?  Ann:  Well,  yes.  John 
Porter  did  in  token  of  gratitude  add  '  some  suitable  embel- 
lishments to  the  village  church';  but,  then  (as  there  are  no 
gentlemen  present)  so  did  the  Greeks,  and  we  think  no 
worse  of  them  for  doing  so.  Judith:  Perhaps.  Anyhow,  John 
Porter  is  the  pick  of  the  bunch.  He  enjoyed  life;  that's 
what  the  Victorians— but,  go  on — tell  me  how  Orme  was 
poisoned. 


ibi 


Sir  Walter  Raleigh1 

TO  most  of  us,  says  Miss  Hadow  in  her  introduction  to  a 
book  of  selections  from  the  prose  of  Sir  Walter  Raleigh, 
'the  Elizabethan  Age  stands  for  one  of  two  things:  it  is  the 
age  of  jewelled  magnificence,  of  pomp  and  profusion  and 
colour,  of  stately  ceremonial  and  Court  pageant,  of  poetry 
and  drama;  or  it  is  the  age  of  enterprise  and  exploration'. 
But  though  we  have  every  reason  for  being  grateful  to  Miss 
Hadow  for  her  part  in  the  production  of  this  astonishing 
little  book,  we  cannot  go  with  her  in  this  initial  distinction. 
If  Shakespeare,  as  literature  is  the  only  thing  that  survives 
in  its  completeness,  may  be  held  to  represent  the  Eliza- 
bethan age,  are  not  enterprise  and  exploration  a  part  of 
Shakespeare?  If  there  are  some  who  read  him  without  any 
thought  save  for  the  poetry,  to  most  of  us,  we  believe,  the 
world  of  Shakespeare  is  the  world  of  Hakluyt  and  of  Raleigh; 
on  that  map  Guiana  and  the  River  of  the  Plate  are  not 
very  far  distant  or  easily  distinguishable  from  the  Forest  of 
Arden  and  Elsinore.  The  navigator  and  the  explorer  made 
their  voyage  by  ship  instead  of  by  the  mind,  but  over 
Hakluyt's  pages  broods  the  very  same  lustre  of  the  imagina- 
tion. Those  vast  rivers  and  fertile  valleys,  those  forests  of 
odorous  trees  and  mines  of  gold  and  ruby,  fill  up  the 
background  of  the  plays  as,  in  our  fancy,  the  blue  of 
the  distant  plains  of  America  seems  to  lie  behind  the 
golden  cross  of  St.  Paul's  and  the  bristling  chimneys  of 
Elizabethan  London. 

No  man  was  a  truer  representative  of  this  Elizabethan 
world  than  Sir  Walter  Raleigh.  From  the  intrigues  and 
splendours  of  the  Court  he  sailed  to  an  unknown  land  in- 
habited by  savages;  from  discourse  with  Marlowe  and 
Spenser  he  went  to  sea-battle  with  the  Spaniard.  Merely  to 
1  Times  Literary  Supplement,  March  15,  19 17. 
162 


SIR    WALTER    RALEIGH 

read  over  the  list  of  his  pursuits  gives  one  a  sense  of  the  space 
and  opportunity  of  the  Elizabethan  age;  courtier  and  ad- 
miral, soldier  and  explorer,  member  of  Parliament  and  poet, 
musician  and  historian — he  was  all  those  things,  and  still 
kept  such  a  curiosity  alive  in  him  that  he  must  practise 
chemistry  in  his  cabin  when  he  had  leisure  at  sea,  or  beg  an 
old  henhouse  from  the  Governor  of  the  Tower  in  which  to 
pursue  his  search  for  'the  Great  Elixir'.  It  is  little  wonder 
that  Rumour  should  still  be  telling  her  stories  about  his 
cloak,  his  pipe  with  the  silver  bowl,  his  potatoes,  his  mahog- 
any, his  orange  trees,  after  all  these  years;  for  though 
Rumour  may  lie,  there  is  always  good  judgment  in  her 
falsehood. 

When  we  come  to  read  what  remains  of  his  writing — and 
in  this  little  book  the  indispensable  part  of  it  is  preserved — 
we  get  what  Rumour  cannot  give  us:  the  likeness  of  an 
extremely  vigorous  and  individual  mind,  scarcely  domi- 
nated by  the  'vast  and  devouring  space'  of  the  centuries.  It 
is  well,  perhaps,  to  begin  by  reading  the  last  fight  of  the 
Revenge,  the  letters  about  Cadiz  and  Guiana,  and  that  to 
his  wife  written  in  expectation  of  death,  before  reading  the 
extracts  from  the  Historie  of  the  World,  and  to  end  with  the 
preface  to  that  work,  as  one  leaves  a  church  with  the  sound 
of  the  organ  in  one's  ears.  His  adventures  by  sea  and  land, 
his  quest  of  Eldorado  and  the  great  gold  mine  of  his  dreams, 
his  sentence  of  death  and  long  imprisonment — glimpses  of 
that  'day  of  a  tempestuous  life'  are  to  be  found  in  these 
pages.  They  give  us  some  idea  of  its  storm  and  its  sunshine. 
Naturally  the  style  of  them  is  very  different  from  that  of  the 
preface.  They  are  full  of  hurry  and  turmoil,  or  impetuosity 
and  self-assertiveness.  He  is  always  eager  to  justify  his  own 
daring,  and  to  proclaim  the  supremacy  of  the  English 
among  other  peoples.  Even  'our  common  English  soldier, 
leavied  in  haste,  from  following  the  Cart,  or  sitting  on  the 
shop-stall',  surpasses  in  valour  the  best  of  Roman  soldiers. 
Of  the  landing  in  Fayal  in  the  year  1597  he  writes,  'For  I 
thought  it  to  belong  unto  the  honor  of  our  Prince  &  Nation, 
that  a  few  Ilanders  should  not  think  any  advantage  great 

163 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

enough,  against  a  fleet  set  forth  by  Q,.  Elizabeth';  although 
he  had  to  admit  that  '  I  had  more  regard  of  reputation,  in 
that  businesse,  than  of  safetie'. 

But  if  we  had  to  justify  our  love  of  these  old  voyagers  we 
should  not  lay  stress  upon  the  boastful  and  magnificent 
strain  in  them;  we  should  point,  rather,  to  the  strain  of 
poetry — the  meditative  mood  fostered  by  long  days  at  sea, 
sleep  and  dreams  under  strange  stars,  and  lonely  effort  in 
the  face  of  death.  We  would  recall  the  words  of  Sir  Humfrey 
Gilbert,  when  the  storm  broke  upon  his  ship,  'sitting  abaft 
with  a  book  in  his  hand  .  .  .  and  crying  (so  oft  as  we  did 
approach  within  hearing)  "We  are  as  near  to  Heaven  by 
sea  as  by  land"'.  And  so  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  whose  char- 
acter was  subject  to  much  criticism  during  his  lifetime,  who 
had  been  alternately  exalted  and  debased  by  fortune,  who 
had  lived  with  the  passion  of  a  great  lover,  turns  finally  to 
thoughts  of  the  littleness  of  all  human  things  and  to  a  mag- 
nanimous contemplation  of  the  lot  of  mankind.  His  thoughts 
seem  inspired  by  a  knowledge  of  life  both  at  its  best  and  its 
worst;  in  the  solitude  of  the  Tower  his  memory  is  haunted 
by  the  sound  of  the  sea.  From  the  sea  he  takes  his  most  fre- 
quent and  splendid  imagery.  It  comes  naturally  to  him  to 
speak  of  the  'Navigation  of  this  life',  of 'the  Port  of  death, 
to  which  all  winds  drive  us'.  Our  false  friends,  he  says, 
'  forsake  us  in  the  first  tempest  of  misfortune  and  steere  away 
before  the  Sea  and  Winde.'  So  in  old  age  we  find  that  our 
joy  and  our  woe  have  'sayled  out  of  sight'.  Often  he  must 
have  looked  into  the  sky  from  the  deck  of  his  ship  and 
thought  how  '  The  Heavens  are  high,  farr  off,  and  unsearche- 
able';  and  his  experience  as  a  ruler  of  uncivilized  races  must 
have  made  him  consider  what  fame  '  the  boundless  ambition 
in  mortal  men'  is  wont  to  leave  behind  it: 

'They  themselves  would  then  rather  have  wished,  to  have 
stolen  out  of  the  world  without  noise,  than  to  be  put  in 
minde,  that  they  have  purchased  the  report  of  their  actions 
in  the  world,  by  rapine,  oppression,  and  crueltie,  by  giving 
in  spoile  the  innocent  and  labouring  soul  to  the  idle  and 
insolent,  and  by  having  emptied  the  cities  of  the  world  of 

164 


SIR    WALTER    RALEIGH 

their  ancient  Inhabitants,  and  filled  them  againe  with  so 
many  and  so  variable  sorts  of  sorrowes.' 

But  although  the  sounds  of  life  and  the  waves  of  the  sea 
are  constantly  in  his  ears,  so  that  at  any  moment  he  is  ready 
to  throw  away  his  pen  and  take  command  of  an  expedition, 
he  seems  in  his  deepest  moods  to  reject  the  show  and  splen- 
dour of  the  world,  to  see  the  vanity  of  gold  mines  and  of  all 
expeditions  save  those  of  the  soul. 

'  For  the  rest,  as  all  fables  were  commonly  grounded  upon 
some  true  stories  of  other  things  done;  so  might  these  tales  of 
the  Griffins  receive  this  moral.  That  if  those  men  which 
fight  against  so  many  dangerous  passages  for  gold,  or  other 
riches  of  this  world,  had  their  perfect  senses  .  .  .  they  would 
content  themselves  with  a  quiet  and  moderate  estate.' 

The  thought  of  the  passing  of  time  and  the  uncertainty  of 
human  lot  was  a  favourite  one  with  the  Elizabethans,  whose 
lives  were  more  at  the  mercy  of  fortune  than  ours  are.  In 
Raleigh's  prose  the  same  theme  is  constantly  treated,  but 
with  an  absence  of  the  characteristic  Elizabethan  conceits, 
which  brings  it  nearer  to  the  taste  of  our  own  time;  a  divine 
unconsciousness  seems  to  pervade  it.  Take  this  passage  upon 
the  passing  of  youth: 

'  So  as  who-so-ever  hee  bee,  to  whome  Fortune  hath  beene 
a  servant,  and  the  Time  a  friend:  let  him  but  take  the 
accompt  of  his  memory  (for  wee  have  no  other  keeper  of  our 
pleasures  past)  and  truelie  examine  what  it  hath  reserved, 
either  of  beauty  and  youth,  or  foregone  delights;  what  it 
hath  saved,  that  it  might  last,  of  his  dearest  affections,  or  of 
whatever  else  the  amorous  Springtime  gave  his  thoughts  of 
contentment,  then  unvaluable;  and  hee  shall  finde  that  all 
the  art  which  his  elder  yeares  have,  can  draw  no  other  vapour 
out  of  these  dissolutions,  than  heavie,  secret,  and  sad  sighs. 
.  .  .  Onely  those  few  blacke  Swans  I  must  except;  who 
having  had  the  grace  to  value  worldly  vanities  at  no  more 
than  their  owne  price;  doe,  by  retayning  the  comfortable 
memorie  of  a  well  acted  life,  behold  death  without  dread, 
and  the  grave  without  feare;  and  embrace  both,  as  necessary 
guides  to  endlesse  glorie.' 

165 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

This  is  no  sudden  effort  of  eloquence;  it  is  prefaced  and 
continued  by  words  of  almost  equal  beauty.  In  its  melody 
and  strength,  its  natural  symmetry  of  form,  it  is  a  perfect 
speech,  fit  for  letters  of  gold  and  the  echoes  of  cathedral 
aisles,  or  for  the  tenderness  of  noble  human  intercourse.  It 
reaches  us  almost  with  the  very  accent  of  Raleigh's  voice. 
There  is  a  magnificence  with  which  such  a  being  relin- 
quishes his  hopes  in  life  and  dismisses  the  cares  of  'this 
ridiculous  world '  which  is  the  counterpart  of  his  great  zest 
in  living.  We  hear  it  in  the  deeply  burdened  sigh  with  which 
he  takes  his  farewell  of  his  wife.  '  For  the  rest,  when  you  have 
travailled  and  wearied  all  your  thoughts,  over  all  sorts  of 
worldly  cogitations,  you  shall  but  sitt  downe  by  sorrowe  in 
the  end.'  But  it  is  most  evident  in  his  thought  upon  death. 
The  thought  of  death  tolls  all  through  Elizabethan  literature 
lugubriously  enough  in  our  ears,  for  whom,  perhaps,  exist- 
ence has  been  made  less  palpable  by  dint  of  much  thinking 
and  death  more  of  a  shade  than  a  substance.  But  to  the 
Elizabethans  a  great  part  of  the  proper  conduct  of  life  con- 
sisted in  meeting  the  idea  of  death,  which  to  them  was  not  an 
idea  but  a  person,  with  fortitude.  And  to  Raleigh  in  par- 
ticular, death  was  a  very  definite  enemy — death,  'which 
doth  pursue  us  and  hold  us  in  chace  from  our  infancy'.  A 
true  man,  he  says,  despises  death.  And  yet  even  as  he  says 
this  there  come  to  life  before  his  eyes  the  'mishapen  and 
ouglye  shapes'  with  which  death  tortures  the  imagination. 
And  at  last,  when  he  has  taken  the  idea  of  death  to  him  and 
triumphed  over  it,  there  rises  from  his  lips  that  magnificent 
strain  of  reconciliation  and  acknowledgment  which  sounds 
for  ever  in  the  ears  of  those  who  have  heard  it  once:  'O 
eloquent,  just  and  mightie  Death!  whom  none  could  advise, 
thou  hast  perswaded :  what  none  hath  dared,  thou  hast  done. ' 


1 66 


Sterne1 

IT  is  the  custom  to  draw  a  distinction  between  a  man  and 
his  works  and  to  add  that,  although  the  world  has  a  claim 
to  read  every  line  of  his  writing,  it  must  not  ask  questions 
about  the  author.  The  distinction  has  arisen,  we  may  be- 
lieve, because  the  art  of  biography  has  fallen  very  low,  and 
people  of  good  taste  infer  that  a  'life'  will  merely  gratify  a 
base  curiosity,  or  will  set  up  a  respectable  figure  of  sawdust. 
It  is  therefore  a  wise  precaution  to  limit  one's  study  of  a 
writer  to  the  study  of  his  works;  but,  like  other  precautions, 
it  implies  some  loss.  We  sacrifice  an  aesthetic  pleasure, 
possibly  of  first-rate  value — a  life  of  Johnson,  for  example — 
and  we  raise  boundaries  where  there  should  be  none.  A 
writer  is  a  writer  from  his  cradle;  in  his  dealings  with  the 
world,  in  his  affections,  in  his  attitude  to  the  thousand  small 
things  that  happen  between  dawn  and  sunset,  he  shows  the 
same  point  of  view  as  that  which  he  elaborates  afterwards 
with  a  pen  in  his  hand.  It  is  more  fragmentary  and  inco- 
herent, but  it  is  also  more  intense.  To  this,  which  one  may 
call  the  aesthetic  interest  of  his  character,  there  are  added 
the  various  interests  of  circumstance — where  and  how  he 
was  born  and  bred  and  educated — which  all  men  share,  but 
which  are  of  greater  interest  as  they  affect  a  more  original 
talent.  The  weakness  of  modern  biographers  seems  to  lie 
not  in  their  failure  to  realize  that  both  elements  are  present 
in  the  life  of  a  writer,  but  in  their  determination  to  separate 
them.  It  is  easier  for  them  to  draw  distinctions  than  to  see 
things  whole.  There  is  a  common  formula,  in  which,  having 
delivered  judgment  upon  his  work,  they  state  that  'a  few 
facts  about  his  life'  may  not  be  inappropriate,  or,  writing 
from  the  opposite  standpoint,  proclaim  that  their  concern  is 
'with  the  man  and  not  with  his  works'.  A  distinction  is  made 
1  Times  Literary  Supplement,  August  12,  1909. 
167 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

in  this  way  which  we  do  not  find  in  the  original,  and  from 
this  reason  mainly  arises  the  common  complaint  against  a 
biography,  that  it  is  'not  like'.  We  have  lives  that  are  all 
ceremony  and  work;  and  lives  that  are  all  chatter  and 
scandal.  A  certain  stigma  is  attached  to  the  biography  which 
deals  mainly  with  a  man's  personal  history,  and  the  writer 
who  sees  him  most  clearly  in  that  light  is  driven  to  represent 
him  under  the  cover  of  fiction.  The  fascination  of  novel 
writing  lies  in  its  freedom;  the  dull  parts  can  be  skipped,  and 
the  excitements  intensified;  but  above  all  the  character  can 
be  placed  artistically,  set,  that  is,  in  fitting  surroundings  and 
composed  so  as  to  give  whatever  impression  you  choose. 
The  traditional  form  is  far  less  definite  in  the  case  of  novels 
than  in  the  case  of  biographies,  because  (one  may  guess)  the 
sensibilities  of  conventional  people  have  much  less  say  in 
the  matter.  One  of  the  objects  of  biography  is  to  make  men 
appear  as  they  ought  to  be,  for  they  are  husbands  and 
brothers;  but  no  one  takes  a  character  in  fiction  quite 
seriously.  It  is  there,  indeed,  that  the  main  disadvantage  of 
novel  writing  lies,  for  the  aesthetic  effect  of  truth  is  only  to 
be  equalled  by  the  imagination  of  genius.  There  are  a  dozen 
incidents  in  a  second-rate  novel  which  might  have  happened 
in  a  dozen  different  ways,  and  the  least  consciousness  of 
indecision  blurs  the  effect;  but  the  bare  statement  of  facts 
has  an  indisputable  power,  if  we  have  reason  to  think  them 
true.  The  knowledge  that  they  are  true,  it  may  be,  leads  us 
to  connect  them  with  other  ideas;  but  if  we  know  that  they 
never  happened  at  all,  and  doubt  that  they  could  have 
happened  in  this  way,  they  suggest  nothing  distinct,  because 
they  are  not  distinct  themselves.  Again,  a  real  life  is  wonder- 
fully prolific;  it  passes  through  such  strange  places  and  draws 
along  with  it  a  train  of  adventure  that  no  novelist  can  better 
them,  if  only  he  can  deal  with  them  as  with  his  own  inventions. 
Certainly,  no  novelist  could  wish  for  finer  material  than 
the  life  of  Sterne  affords  him.  His  story  was  'like  a  romance' 
and  his  genius  was  of  the  rarest.  There  is  a  trace  of  the  usual 
apology  in  Professor  Cross's  preface,1  to  the  effect  that  he  is 
1    The  Life  and  Times  of  Lawrence  Sterne,  by  Wilbur  L.  Cross. 

1 68 


STERNE 

not  going  to  pass  judgment  on  the  writings,  but  merely  to 
give  the  facts  of  the  life.  In  his  opinion  such  facts  would  be 
dull  enough,  if  it  did  not  'turn  out',  as  he  remarks,  that  the 
writings  are  in  part  autobiographical,  so  that  one  may  con- 
sider his  life  without  irrelevance.  But  Professor  Cross  has 
surely  underrated  the  value  of  his  material,  or  the  use  he 
has  made  of  it,  for  the  book  makes  excellent  reading  from 
start  to  finish,  and  persuades  us  that  we  know  Sterne  better 
than  we  did  before. 

There  are  certain  scenes  upon  which,  were  one  writing  a 
novel,  one  would  like  to  dwell.  The  story  of  his  youth  is  one; 
he  was  dragged  about  England  and  Ireland  in  the  train  of 
the  regiment  which  his  father  served.  His  mother  was  a 
vulgar  woman,  daughter  of  a  sutler,  and  his  father  was  a 
'little  smart  man'  who  got  the  wound  that  killed  him  in  a 
quarrel  over  a  goose.  The  family  trailed  about,  always  in 
straits  for  money,  from  one  garrison  town  to  another.  Some- 
times they  were  taken  in  by  a  rich  cousin,  for  the  Sternes 
were  of  old  descent;  sometimes  in  crossing  the  Channel  they 
were  'nearly  cast  away  by  a  leak  springing  up  on  board 
ship'.  Little  brothers  and  sisters  were  born  on  their  wander- 
ings, and  died,  '  being  of  a  fine  delicate  frame  not  made  to 
last  long'.  Sterne,  after  the  death  of  his  father,  was  taken  in 
charge  by  his  cousin,  Richard  Sterne  of  Elvington,  and  sent 
to  Cambridge.  He  sat  with  John  Hall-Stevenson  under  a 
great  walnut  tree  in  the  court  of  Jesus  College,  reading 
Rabelais,  Rochester,  and  Aphra  Behn,  Homer,  Virgil,  and 
Theocritus,  evil  books  and  good  books,  so  that  they  called 
the  tree  the  tree  of  knowledge.  Sterne,  further,  railed  at 
'rhetoric,  logic,  and  metaphysics  .  .  .  amused  that  intellect 
should  employ  itself  in  that  way'. 

But  it  is  at  Sutton,  eight  miles  from  York,  that  we  should 
like  to  pause  and  draw  the  portrait  of  the  vicar.  '  So  slovenly 
was  his  dress  and  strange  his  gait,  that  the  little  boys  used  to 
flock  round  him  and  walk  by  his  side.'  He  would  stop  on  his 
way  to  church,  if  his  pointer  started  a  covey  of  partridges, 
and  leave  his  flock  without  a  sermon  while  he  shot.  Once, 
when  his  wife  was  out  of  her  mind  for  a  while  and  thought 

169 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

herself  Queen  of  Bohemia,  Sterne  drove  her  through  the 
stubble  fields  with  bladders  fastened  to  the  wheels  of  her 
chaise  to  make  a  noise  'and  then  I  told  her  this  is  the  way 
they  course  in  Bohemia'.  He  farmed  his  own  land,  played 
the  violin,  took  lessons  in  painting  and  drawing,  and  drove 
into  York  for  the  races.  In  addition  he  was  a  violent  partisan 
in  the  ecclesiastical  disputes  and  drew  Dr.  Slop  from  the  life. 
Then,  when  he  was  tired  of  parochial  life  he  could  drive  over 
to  the  great  stone  house  with  the  moat  of  stagnant  water 
round  it  where  John  Hall-Stevenson  lived,  in  retreat  from 
the  world,  humouring  his  fancies.  If  the  weathercock  which 
he  saw  from  his  bed  pointed  to  the  north-east,  for  example, 
Mr.  Hall-Stevenson  would  lie  all  day  in  bed.  If  he  could  be 
induced  to  rise,  he  spent  his  time  in  writing  indecent  rhymes 
and  in  reading  with  his  friend  among  the  old  and  obscene 
books  in  the  library.  Then,  in  October,  the  brotherhood  of 
the  Demoniacs  met  at  the  Hall,  in  imitation  of  the  monks  of 
Medmenham  Abbey;  but  it  was  a  rustic  copy,  for  they  were 
'noisy  Yorkshire  squires  and  gentlemen',  who  hunted  by 
day,  drank  deep  into  the  night,  and  told  rude  stories  over 
their  burgundy.  Their  spirit  and  their  oddity  (for  they  were 
the  freaks  of  the  countryside)  rejoiced  Sterne  hugely,  just  as 
he  loved  the  immense  freedom  of  the  old  writers.  When  he 
was  back  in  his  parsonage  again  he  had  books  all  round  him 
to  take  the  place  of  talk.  York  was  full  of  books,  for  the  sales 
of  the  county  took  place  there.  Sterne's  love  of  books  reminds 
us  sometimes  of  Charles  Lamb.  He  loved  the  vast  forgotten 
folios,  where  a  lifetime  of  learning  and  fancy  has  been  poured 
into  the  notes;  he  loved  Burton  and  Bouchet  and  Bruscam- 
bille;  Montaigne,  Rabelais,  and  Cervantes  he  loved  of 
course;  but  one  may  believe  that  he  delighted  most  in  his 
wild  researches  into  medicine,  midwifery,  and  military 
engineering.  He  was  only  brought  to  a  stop  by  the  difficulty 
of  understanding  in  what  way  a  cannon  ball  travels,  for  the 
'laws  of  the  parabola'  were  not  to  his  mind. 

He  was  forty-five  before  it  occurred  to  him  that  these 
vivid  experiences  among  the  parsons,  the  country  peasants, 
and  the  wits  of  Crazy  Castle  had  given  him  a  view  of  the 

170 


STERNE 

world  which  it  would  be  possible  to  put  into  shape.  The 
first  books  of  Tristram  Shandy  were  written  at  fever  heat, 
'quaint  demons  grinning  and  clawing  at  his  head',  ideas 
striking  him  as  he  walked,  and  sending  him  back  home  at  a 
run  to  secure  them.  It  is  in  this  way  that  the  first  books  still 
impress  us;  a  wonderful  conception,  long  imprisoned  in  the 
brain  and  delicately  formed,  seems  to  leap  out,  surprising 
and  intoxicating  the  writer  himself.  He  had  found  a  key  to 
the  world.  He  thought  he  could  go  on  like  this,  at  the  rate 
of  two  volumes  a  year,  for  ever,  for  a  miracle  had  happened 
which  turned  all  his  experiences  to  words;  to  write  about 
them  was  to  be  master  of  all  that  was  in  him  and  all  that 
was  to  come.  A  slight  knowledge  of  his  life  is  enough  to 
identify  many  of  the  characters  with  real  people  and  to  trace 
the  humours  of  Uncle  Toby  and  Mr.  Shandy  to  the  oddities 
of  Crazy  Castle  and  to  the  studies  of  the  writer  himself.  But 
these  are  merely  marks  on  the  surface,  and  the  source  from 
which  they  sprang  lies  very  deep.  Wilfully  strange  and 
whimsical  of  course  Sterne  was,  but  the  spirit  which  inspires 
his  humours  and  connects  them  is  the  spirit  of  the  humourist; 
the  world  is  an  absurd  place,  and  to  prove  it  he  invents 
absurdities  which  he  shows  to  be  as  sensible  as  the  views  by 
which  the  world  is  governed.  The  stranger's  nose,  it  will  be 
remembered,  'just  served  as  a  frigate  to  launch  them  into 
a  gulf  of  school  divinity,  and  then  they  all  sailed  before  the 
wind'.  Whichever  way  the  story  winds  it  is  accompanied  by 
a  jibing  at  'great  wigs,  grave  faces,  and  other  implements  of 
deceit',  and  thus  the  innumerable  darts  and  spurts  of  fancy, 
in  spite  of  their  variety,  have  a  certain  likeness. 

Shandy  Hall,  the  home  of  cranks  and  eccentricities,  never- 
theless contrives  to  make  the  whole  of  the  outer  world  appear 
heavy,  and  dull  and  brutal,  and  teased  by  innumerable 
imps.  But  it  is  probable  that  this  effect  is  given  quite  as  much 
by  indirect  means  as  by  direct  satire  and  parody.  The  form 
of  the  book,  which  seems  to  allow  the  writer  to  put  down  at 
once  the  first  thought  that  comes  into  his  head,  suggests 
freedom;  and  then  the  thoughts  themselves  are  so  informal, 
so  small,  private,  and  far-fetched,  that  the  reader  is  amazed 

171 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

and  delighted  to  think  how  easy  it  must  be  to  write.  Even 
his  indecency  impresses  one  as  an  odd  kind  of  honesty.  In 
comparison  other  novels  seem  intolerably  portly  and  plati- 
tudinous and  remote  from  life.  At  the  same  time,  what  kind 
of  life  is  it  that  Sterne  can  show  us?  It  is  easy  to  see  that  it 
has  nothing  in  common  with  what,  in  the  shorthand  of 
speech,  one  calls  'real  life'.  Sterne  skips  immense  tracts  of 
living  in  order  to  concentrate  upon  the  little  whim  or  the 
oddity  which  most  delighted  him.  His  people  are  always 
at  high  pressure,  with  their  brains  in  a  state  of  abnormal 
activity.  Their  wills  and  their  affections  can  make  small  way 
against  their  intellects.  Uncle  Toby,  it  will  be  remembered, 
picks  up  a  Bible  directly  he  has  made  his  offer  of  marriage, 
and  becomes  so  much  engrossed  by  the  siege  of  Jericho  that 
he  leaves  his  proposal  'to  work  with  her  after  its  own  way'. 
When  the  news  of  his  son's  death  reaches  Mr.  Shandy,  his 
mind  at  once  fills  with  the  fine  sayings  of  the  philosophers, 
and  in  spouting  them  his  private  sorrow  is  completely  for- 
gotten. Nevertheless,  although  such  reversals  of  ordinary 
experience  startle  us,  they  do  not  seem  to  us  unnatural — 
they  do  not  turn  to  chill  conceits — because  Sterne,  the  first 
of 'motive-mongers',  has  observed  the  humours  of  man  with 
an  exquisite  subtlety.  His  sphere  is  in  the  most  exalted 
regions,  where  the  thought  and  not  the  act  is  the  thing 
criticized;  where  the  thought,  moreover,  is  almost  com- 
pletely severed  from  ordinary  associations  and  the  support 
of  facts.  Uncle  Toby,  with  his  simple  questionings  and 
avowals — '  You  puzzle  me  to  death ' — plays  a  most  important 
part  by  bringing  his  brother's  flights  to  earth  and  giving 
them  that  contrast  with  normal  human  thought  in  which 
the  essence  of  humour  lies. 

Yet  there  are  moments,  especially  in  the  later  books  of 
Tristram  Shandy,  where  the  hobby-horse  is  ridden  to  death, 
and  Mr.  Shandy's  invariable  eccentricity  tries  our  patience. 
The  truth  is  that  we  cannot  live  happily  in  such  fine  air  for 
long,  and  that  we  begin  to  become  conscious  of  limitations; 
moreover,  this  astonishing  vivacity  has  something  a  little 
chill  about  it.  The  same  qualities  that  were  so  exhilarating 

172 


STERNE 

at  first — the  malice,  the  wit,  and  the  irresponsibility — are 
less  pleasing  when  they  seem  less  spontaneous,  like  the  grin 
on  a  weary  face;  or,  it  may  be,  when  one  has  had  enough  of 
them.  A  writer  who  feels  his  responsibility  to  his  characters 
tries  to  give  vent  to  portentous  groans  at  intervals;  he  does 
his  best  to  insist  that  he  is  a  showman  merely,  that  his  judg- 
ments are  fallible,  and  that  a  great  mystery  lies  round  us  all. 
But  Sterne's  sense  of  humour  will  suffer  no  mystery  to  settle 
on  his  page;  he  is  never  sublime  like  Meredith,  but  on  the 
other  hand  he  is  never  ridiculous  like  Thackeray.  When  he 
wished  to  get  some  relief  from  his  fantastic  brilliancy,  he 
sought  it  in  the  portrayal  of  exquisite  instants  and  pangs  of 
emotion.  The  famous  account  of  Uncle  Toby  and  the  fly — 
'"Go,"  says  he,  lifting  up  the  sash,  and  opening  his  hand  as 
he  spoke,  to  let  it  escape;  "go,  poor  devil;  get  thee  gone, 
why  should  I  hurt  thee?  The  world  surely  is  wide  enough  to 
hold  both  thee  and  me"' — is  followed  by  a  description  of 
the  effect  which  such  words  had  upon  Sterne  himself.  They 
'instantly  set  my  whole  frame  into  one  vibration  of  most 
pleasurable  sensation'.  It  is  this  strange  contradiction,  as 
it  seems,  between  feeling  pain  and  joy  acutely,  and  at  the 
same  time,  observing  and  admiring  his  own  power  to  do  so, 
that  has  thrown  so  much  discredit  upon  the  famous  'senti- 
mentality', and  has  so  much  perplexed  his  admirers.  The 
amazing  truth  of  these  observations  is  the  best  proof  that  he 
felt  them;  but  when  it  becomes  obvious  that  he  has  now 
time  to  think  of  himself  our  attention  strays  also,  and  we 
ask  irrelevant  questions — whether,  for  instance,  Sterne  was 
a  good  man.  Sometimes — the  incident  of  the  donkey  in 
Tristram  Shandy  is  a  good  example — his  method  is  brilliantly 
successful,  for  he  touches  upon  the  emotion,  and  passes  on 
to  show  us  how  it  travels  through  his  mind,  and  what  asso- 
ciations cling  to  it;  different  ideas  meet  and  disperse,  natur- 
ally as  it  seems;  and  the  whole  scene  is  lit  for  the  moment 
with  air  and  colour.  In  The  Sentimental  Journey,  however, 
Sterne  seems  anxious  to  suppress  his  natural  curiosity,  and 
to  have  a  double  intention  in  his  sentiment — to  convey  a 
feeling  to  the  reader,  but  with  the  object  of  winning  admira- 

173 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

tion  for  his  own  simple  virtues.  It  is  when  his  unmixed  senti- 
ment falls  very  flat  that  we  begin  to  ask  ourselves  whether 
we  like  the  writer,  and  to  call  him  hypocrite.  'The  pauvre 
honteux  [to  whom  Sterne  had  given  alms]  could  say  nothing; 
he  pull'd  out  a  little  handkerchief,  and  wiped  his  face  as  he 
turned  away — and  I  thought  he  thanked  me  more  than 
them  all.'  The  last  words,  with  their  affectation  of  simplicity, 
are  like  eyes  turned  unctiously  to  Heaven. 

There  is  abundant  evidence  in  the  story  of  his  life  to  show 
how  strange  and  complicated  was  the  state  of  mind  that 
produced  such  works  of  art.  Sterne  was  a  man  of  many 
passions,  driven  'according  as  the  fly  stings';  but  the  most 
serious  was  said  to  have  been  inspired  by  Mrs.  Draper,  the 
Eliza  of  the  letters.  Nevertheless,  sentiments  that  had  done 
duty  for  his  wife  in  1 740  were  copied  out,  with  a  change  of 
name,  and  made  to  serve  again  for  Eliza,  in  the  year  1767; 
and  again  if  he  had  turned  a  phrase  happily  in  writing  to 
Eliza,  Lydia,  his  daughter,  was  given  the  benefit  of  it.  Shall 
we  infer  from  this  that  Sterne  cared  nothing  for  wife  or 
mistress  or  daughter,  or  shall  we  believe  that  he  was,  before 
everything  else,  and  with  all  the  failing  of  his  kind,  a  great 
artist?  If  he  had  been  among  the  greatest,  no  doubt  these 
little  economies  would  not  have  been  necessary;  but  with 
his  exquisite  and  penetrating  but  not  very  exuberant  genius 
it  was  essential  to  make  shifts  and  to  eke  out  as  best  he  might. 
Accordingly,  we  have,  as  Professor  Gross  demonstrates,  the 
strange  spectacle  of  a  man  who  uses  his  emotions  twice  over, 
for  different  purposes.  The  Journal  to  Eliza  in  which  the  most 
secret  passions  of  his  heart  are  laid  bare  is  but  the  note-book 
for  passages  in  The  Sentimental  Journey  which  all  the  world 
may  read.  Sterne  himself,  no  doubt,  scarcely  knew  at  what 
point  his  own  pain  was  dissolved  in  the  joy  of  an  artist.  We 
at  this  distance  of  time,  might  speculate  indefinitely. 

Indeed,  however  we  may  test  it,  there  is  no  life  which  is 
harder  to  judge;  its  eccentricities  are  often  genuine,  and  its 
impulses  are  often  premeditated.  In  the  same  way  the  final 
impression  is  twofold  in  its  nature,  for  we  must  combine  a 
life  of  extraordinary  flightiness  and  oddity  with  the  infinite 

174 


STERNE 

painstaking  and  self-consciousness  of  an  artist.  This  thin, 
excitable  man,  who  was  devoured  by  consumption,  who 
said  of  himself  that  he  generally  acted  on  the  first  impulse, 
and  was  a  bundle  of  sensations  scarcely  checked  by  reason, 
not  only  kept  a  record  of  all  that  he  felt,  but  could  sit  close 
at  his  table,  arranging  and  rearranging,  adding  and  altering, 
until  every  scene  was  clear,  every  tone  was  felt,  and  each 
word  was  fit  and  in  its  place.  '  How  do  the  slight  touches  of 
the  chisel,'  he  exclaimed  in  Tristram  Shandy,  'the  pencil,  the 
pen,  the  fiddle  stick,  et  cetera,  give  the  true  swell,  which  gives 
the  true  pleasure!  O,  my  fellow  countrymen! — be  nice;  be 
cautious  of  your  language — and  never,  O!  never  let  it  be 
forgotten  upon  what  small  particles  your  eloquence  and 
your  fame  depend.'  His  fame  depends  partly  upon  that 
inimitable  style,  but  rests  most  safely  upon  the  extraordinary 
zest  with  which  he  lived,  and  upon  the  joy  with  which  his 
mind  worked  ceaselessly  upon  the  world. 


175 


Eliza  and  Sterne1 

OF  the  many  difficulties  which  afflict  the  biographer, 
the  moral  difficulty  must  surely  be  the  greatest.  By 
what  standard,  that  is  to  say,  is  he  to  judge  the  morals  of  the 
dead?  By  that  of  their  day,  or  that  of  his  own?  Or  should 
he,  before  putting  pen  to  paper,  arrive  at  some  absolute 
standard  of  right  and  wrong  by  which  he  can  try  Socrates 
and  Shelley  and  Byron  and  Queen  Victoria  and  Mr.  Lloyd 
George?  The  problem,  though  it  lies  at  the  root  of  biography 
and  affects  it  in  every  fibre,  is  for  the  most  part  solved  or 
shelved  by  taking  it  for  granted  that  the  truth  was  revealed 
about  the  year  1 850  to  the  fortunate  natives  of  the  British 
Isles,  who  need  only  in  future  take  into  account  circum- 
stances of  date,  country,  and  sex  in  order  to  come  to  a 
satisfactory  conclusion  upon  all  cases  of  moral  eccentricity 
submitted  to  their  judgment.  If  we  write  the  life  of  Elizabeth 
Draper,  for  instance,  we  must  lay  great  stress  upon  the  ques- 
tion of  the  morality  or  immorality  of  her  relations  with 
Sterne.  We  must  ransack  the  evidence  and  profess  relief  or 
censure  as  the  balance  sways  for  her  or  against.  We  must 
attach  more  importance  to  her  conduct  in  this  respect  than 
in  any  other.  Mr.  Wright  and  Mr.  Sclater  go  through  the 
ceremony  with  rigid  consistency.  Her  'moral  culpability'  is 
debated  at  every  point,  and  we  are  invited  to  assist  at  a  trial 
which,  as  it  proceeds,  comes  to  have  less  and  less  reality 
either  for  us  or  for  anybody  else.  But  in  saying  that  we  admit 
no  levity.  We  are  only  saying  what  every  reader  of  bio- 
graphy knows  but  few  writers  care  to  confess — that  times 
are  changed;  that  in  1850  Eliza  would  not  have  been  invited 
to  Court,  but  that  in  1922  we  should  all  be  delighted  to  sit 
next  her  at  dinner. 

Yet  morality,  though  it  may  be  the  crucial  difficulty,  is  by 

1    Times  Literary  Supplement,  December  14,  1922. 
176 


ELIZA     AND     STERNE 

no  means  the  only  difficulty  that  the  biographer  has  to  face. 
There  are  the  white  ants  of  Anjengo — '  a  peculiarly  vora- 
cious breed',  who,  not  satisfied  with  devouring  the  'bulk  of 
the  old  archives'  of  a  town  which  is  at  once  the  birthplace 
of  Eliza  and  the  seat  of  the  pepper  industry,  have  eaten  away 
a  much  more  precious  material — the  life  of  Eliza  herself. 
Again  and  again  her  conscientious  biographers  have  to 
admit  that  the  facts  are  lost.  'History  ...  is  often  most 
tantalizingly  silent  upon  points  of  real  interest.'  The  chief 
actor  leaves  the  stage,  often  at  the  crisis  of  her  fate,  and 
in  her  absence  our  attention  is  directed  to  the  antiseptic 
quality  of  wood  ashes  in  the  treatment  of  smallpox;  to  the 
different  natures  of  the  Hooka,  the  Calloon,  and  the  Kerim 
Can;  to  the  method,  still  in  vogue,  of  hunting  deer  with 
cheetahs;  and  to  the  fact  that  one  of  Eliza's  uncles  was  killed 
by  a  sack  of  caraway  seeds  falling  on  his  head  as  he  walked 
up  St.  Mary-at-Hill  in  the  year  1778.  These  familiar  diver- 
sions, which  do  not  perhaps  advance  the  cause  of  biography, 
are  excusable  when  the  subject  is,  as  Eliza  Draper  was,  an 
obscure  woman,  dead  almost  a  century  and  a  half,  whose 
thirty-five  years  would  have  been  utterly  forgotten  were  it 
not  that  for  three  months  in  one  of  them  she  was  loved  by 
Laurence  Sterne. 

She  was  loved,  but  the  depredations  of  time  and  the  white 
ants  leave  us  in  little  doubt  that  the  love  was  on  his  side,  not 
on  hers.  If  she  was  anybody's  Eliza  (which  is  by  no  means 
certain)  she  was  Thomas  Limbrey  Sclater's  Eliza.  To  him 
she  wrote  affectionately  all  her  life;  to  him  she  sent  one  of 
Sterne's  love-letters;  and  it  was  of  him  she  thought  when  the 
ship  was  carrying  her  back  to  India  and  away  from  Sterne 
for  ever.  She  should  have  had  more  sense  of  the  becoming. 
She  should  have  realized  the  predicament  in  which  she 
places  posterity.  But  Eliza  was  a  woman  of  impulse  rather 
than  of  reflection.  'Committing  matrimony',  as  her  sister 
called  it,  with  Daniel  Draper  of  Bombay  at  the  age  of  four- 
teen she  ruined  her  chances  for  ever.  He  was  thirty-four, 
had  several  illegitimate  children,  was  afflicted  with  the 
writer's  cramp,  and  possessed  all  those  virtues  which  lead 

177 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

officials  to  the  highest  promotion  and  make  their  wives 
jump  into  the  arms  of  Commodore  Clarke. 

'.  .  .  By  nature  cool,  Phlegmatic,  and  not  adorned  by 
Education  with  any  of  those  pleasing  Acquirements  which 
help  to  fill  up  the  Vacuums  of  time  agreeably,  if  not  usefully, 
added  to  which,  Methodically  formed,  in  the  Extreme,  by 
long  habit,  and  not  easily  roused  into  active  measures  by 
any  Motive  Unconnected  with  his  sense  of  duty.' 

Such  a  man  (Eliza  wrote  of  her  husband  in  words  which, 
since  her  emotions  were  strong  and  her  grammar  weak,  we 
take  the  liberty  of  paraphrasing)  is  quite  unfitted  to  be  the 
husband  of  a  lady  entitled  to  'the  Appellation  of  Belle 
Indian';  who  loved  society  much  but  solitude  more;  who 
read  Montaigne  and  the  Spectator;  who  was  fourth  if  not 
third  upon  the  Governor's  invitation  list;  who  wrote  letters 
which  some  thought  worthy  of  publication;  who  had  been 
told  finally  by  a  friend  that  nature  designed  her  for  the  wife 
of  'a  very  feeling  Poet  and  Philosopher,  rather  than  to  a 
Gentleman  of  Independance  and  General  Talents,  and  the 
reason  he  was  pleased  to  assign  to  it  was,  the  natural  and 
supposed  qualities  of  my  heart,  together  with  an  expressive 
Countenance  and  a  manner  capable  of  doing  justice  to  the 
tender  Passions'. 

This  '  acknowledged  Judge  of  Physiognomy '  was,  we  may 
guess,  no  less  a  person  than  the  great  Mr.  Sterne.  Eliza  met 
him  at  the  house  of  Mrs.  James  in  Gerrard  Street  in  the  year 
1767.  Draper's  increasing  cramp  had  the  somewhat  incon- 
gruous effect  of  bringing  them  together.  Having  tried  the 
English  spas  without  success,  Draper  returned  to  Bombay 
and  Eliza  was  left  in  London  to  continue  the  conversation 
with  Sterne.  From  the  Journal  to  Eliza  we  can  judge  fairly 
accurately  what  they  talked  about.  Eliza  was  the  most 
charming  of  women,  Sterne  the  most  passionate  of  men. 
Life  was  cruel,  Mrs.  Sterne  intolerable,  early  marriages 
deplorable,  Bombay  distant,  and  husbands  exacting.  The 
only  happiness  to  mingle  thoughts  and  tears,  to  share 
ecstasies  and  exchange  portraits,  and  pray  for  some  miracle, 
such  as  the  simultaneous  deaths  of  Elizabeth  Sterne  and 

178 


ELIZA    AND     STERNE 

Daniel  Draper,  which  might  unite  them  eternally  in  the 
future.  But  though  this  was  undoubtedly  what  they  said, 
it  is  no  such  easy  matter  to  be  certain  what  they  meant. 
Sterne  was  fifty-four,  and  Eliza  twenty-two.  Sterne  was  at 
the  height  of  his  fame,  and  Eliza  at  the  height  not  of  her 
beauty,  which  was  little,  but  of  her  charm,  which  was  great. 
But  Sterne  was  engaged  in  writing  The  Sentimental  Journey, 
and  Eliza  must  sometimes  have  felt  that  though  it  was  most 
wonderful  and  flattering  to  have  a  celebrated  author  sitting 
by  her  bedside  when  she  fell  ill,  and  reading  her  letters 
aloud  to  the  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  the  highest  rank,  and 
displaying  her  picture,  and  buying  ten  handsome  brass 
screws  for  her  cabin,  and  running  her  errands  round  London, 
still  he  was  fifty-four,  had  a  dreadful  cough,  and  sometimes, 
she  noticed,  looked  out  of  the  window  in  a  very  curious  way. 
No  doubt  he  was  thinking  about  his  writing.  He  assured  her 
that  he  found  her  of  the  very  greatest  help.  And  he  told  her 
that  he  had  brought  her  name  and  picture  into  his  work, 
'where',  he  said,  'they  will  remain  when  you  and  I  are  at 
rest';  and  he  went  on  to  write  an  elegy  upon  her,  and  no 
doubt  worked  himself  up  into  one  of  those  accesses  of  emo- 
tion which  any  woman  would  have  given  her  eyes  to  inspire, 
yet  lying  ill  in  bed  Eliza  found  them  a  little  fatiguing,  and 
could  not  help  thinking  that  Thomas  Limbrey  Sclater,  who 
was  not  in  the  least  likely  to  become  immortal,  was  a  great 
deal  more  to  her  taste  than  Laurence  Sterne.  Thus,  if  we 
must  censure  Eliza,  it  is  not  for  being  in  love  with  Sterne, 
but  for  not  being  in  love  with  him.  She  let  him  write  her  the 
letters  of  a  lover  and  propose  to  her  the  rights  of  a  husband. 
But  when  she  reached  India  she  had  almost  forgotten  him,  and 
his  death  recalled  only '  the  mild  generous  good  Yorick '  whose 
picture  hung,  not  above  her  heart,  but  over  her  writing-table. 
Arrived  in  India  with  eleven  years  of  life  before  her,  the 
provoking  creature  proceeded  to  live  them  as  if  she  did  not 
care  a  straw  for  those  'Annotators  and  Explainers'  who 
would,  Sterne  said,  busy  themselves  in  after  ages  with  their 
names.  She  gave  herself  up  to  trivial  interests  and  nameless 
captains;  to  sitting  till  three  in  the  morning  upon  a  'cool 

179 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

Terrasse';  to  hunting  antelopes  with  leopards;  to  driving 
down  the  streets  of  Tellicherry  with  an  escort  of  armed 
Sepoys;  to  playing  with  her  children  and  pouring  out  her 
soul  in  long,  long  letters  to  Mr.  Sclater  and  Mrs.  James;  to 
that  petty  process  of  living,  in  short,  which  is  of  such  inex- 
plicable interest  to  others  engaged  in  the  same  pursuit.  It  is 
all  very  obscure  and  highly  conjectural.  She  was  very  happy 
at  Tellicherry  in  the  year  1769  and  very  unhappy  in  the 
year  1770.  She  was  always  being  happy  and  then  unhappy 
and  blaming  herself  and  hoping  that  her  daughter  would  be 
a  better  woman  than  her  mother.  Yet  Eliza  did  not  think 
altogether  badly  of  herself.  It  was  her  complexion  that  was 
to  blame,  and  the  'happy  flexibility'  of  her  temper.  Vain, 
charming,  gifted,  sympathetic,  her  relations  with  her  hus- 
band grew  steadily  more  and  more  desperate.  At  last,  when 
it  was  quite  certain  that  Draper  loved  Leeds,  her  maid,  and 
neither  on  Tuesday  nor  on  Wednesday  did  he  say  that  word 
'  sympathetick  of  regret '  which  '  would  have  saved  me  the 
perilous  adventure',  Eliza  either  jumped  from  her  window 
into  a  boat  or  was  otherwise  conveyed  to  the  flagship  of 
Sir  John  Clarke  and  thence  to  her  uncle's  house  at  Masuli- 
patam.  This  time,  without  a  doubt,  her  biographers  regret- 
fully conclude,  'Eliza  was  "lost"'.  But  Eliza  was  not  in  the 
least  of  that  opinion  herself.  She  turned  up  imperturbably  in 
Queen  Anne  Street,  Cavendish  Square,  'which  shows  that 
she  had  considerable  social  resources';  but  there,  alas,  pro- 
ceeded to  fall  in  love  with  the  Abbe  Raynal.  Was  she  incor- 
rigible or  was  he,  perhaps  like  others  of  his  countrymen,  apt 
to  exaggerate?  The  terms  in  which  he  addressed  Anjengo 
would  lead  one  to  suspect  the  latter.  But  death,  with  infinite 
discretion,  spares  us  the  inquiry.  Eliza  died  at  the  age  of 
thirty-five,  and  some  unknown  friend  raised  a  monument  to 
her  memory  in  Bristol  Cathedral  with  the  figures  of  Genius 
and  Benevolence  on  either  side  and  a  bird  in  the  act  of 
feeding  its  young.  So  after  all  somebody  liked  Eliza,  and 
it  is  as  certain  as  anything  can  be  that  a  woman  with  such 
a  tombstone  was  moving  in  the  highest  circles  of  Bristol 
society  at  the  time  of  her  death. 

180 


Horace  Walpole: 


ONE  hundred  and  ten  letters  by  Horace  Walpole  are 
here  printed  by  Dr.  Toynbee  for  the  first  time.2  These, 
together  with  twenty-three  now  printed  in  full,  new  matter 
from  hitherto  unpublished  material,  and  Dr.  Toynbee's 
notes,  make  up  two  volumes  of  rare  delight.  If  the  two 
volumes  were  ten  we  should  still  urge  Dr.  Toynbee  to  fresh 
researches;  we  should  still  welcome  the  discovery  of  a  large 
chest  put  away  in  some  old  country  house  and  stuffed  to  the 
brim  with  Walpole's  letters.  Although  there  is  nothing  in 
the  new  letters  of  surpassing  brilliance,  nothing  that  draws 
a  new  line  on  the  familiar  face,  there  is  once  more,  and  for 
too  short  a  time,  the  peculiar  and  unmistakable  pleasure  of 
Walpole's  society.  He  does  not  need  to  be  brilliant;  he  does 
not  need  to  be  indiscreet;  let  him  draw  up  to  the  table,  take 
the  pen  in  his  gouty  fingers,  and  write — anything,  every- 
thing, so  long  as  he  continues  to  write.  These  last  letters, 
swept  up  from  many  different  sources  with  intervals  between 
them  and  lacking  continuity,  are  yet  neither  trivial  nor  dis- 
connected. We  fall  into  step  at  once.  We  take  our  delightful 
promenade  through  the  greater  part  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury. We  see  in  passing  many  old  friends.  It  is  as  entertaining 
as  ever.  The  first  solemn  chimes  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
which  mean  that  Horace  Walpole  must  retire,  are  as  vexa- 
tious to  us  as  the  clock  that  strikes  and  sends  a  child 
complaining  up  to  bed. 

Perhaps  it  is  fanciful  to  detect  the  charm  of  the  mature 
Walpole  in  'My  first  letter  to  my  mother',  with  which  the 
book  opens:  'Dear  Mama,  I  hop  you  are  wall  and  I  am  very 
wall  and  I  hop  papa  is  wall  .  .  .  and  I  am  very  glad  to  hear 

1  Times  Literary  Supplement,  July  31 ,  19 19. 

2  Supplement  to  the  Letters  of  Horace  Walpole,  fourth  Earl  of  Orford. 
Chronologically  arranged  and  edited  with  notes  and  indices  by  Paget 
Toynbee.     Two  volumes. 

l8l 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

by  Tom  that  all  my  cruataurs  ar  all  wall'.  Yet  this  is  an 
engaging  letter,  as  the  dark-eyed  little  boy  in  the  miniature 
is  a  charming  little  boy;  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that 
Walpole  far  sooner  than  most  children  knew  his  own  mind 
and  could  overcome  the  difficulties  of  spelling.  There  was 
never  a  transition  stage  of  awkward  immaturity  when  he 
said  more  than  he  meant,  or  less  than  he  meant,  or  what 
he  did  not  mean.  At  the  age  of  twenty-three  he  appears  in 
Rome  a  complete  man  of  the  world,  and  so  much  his  own 
master  that  he  can  already  quiz  the  great  ladies  who  are 
seeing  the  sights,  execute  commissions  for  fans  and  snuff- 
boxes, exchange  compliments  with  learned  men,  keep  his 
own  mind  admirably  free  from  enthusiasm,  and  end  a 
letter : 

Good-night,  child,  I  am  in  a  violent  hurry.  Oh,  Porto 
Bello,  the  delightful  news!  Corradini  is  certainly  to  be 
Pope,  and  soon.  Next  post  I  shall  probably  be  able  to  tell 
you  he  certainly  is  not. 

The  author  of  that  sentence  is  already  completely  equipped 
for  his  part.  He  has  broken  the  back  of  the  stubborn  English 
tongue;  for  ever  more  it  is  going  to  run  his  errands,  carry  his 
light  burdens,  do  his  behests;  he  has  at  his  disposal  an 
indefatigable  slave.  More  than  that,  he  has  already  taken 
up  his  position,  sees  the  spectacle  from  his  own  angle,  and 
for  close  on  eighty  years  there  will  he  stand,  witty,  malicious, 
observant,  detached,  the  liveliest  of  gossips,  the  most  alert  of 
friends.  The  son  of  a  Prime  Minister  endowed  with  a  hand- 
some sinecure,  a  position  of  some  sort  was  assured  him  had 
he  been  both  dunce  and  dullard.  But  Horace  Walpole  was 
not  a  dullard,  and  he  was  much  more  than  the  son  of  a 
Prime  Minister.  He  stood  out  against  his  hereditary  doom 
with  a  resolution  which  commands  our  respect,  though  it 
has  caused  him  to  be  disparaged  since,  as  no  doubt  it  raised 
a  laugh  against  him  at  the  time.  He  would  not  drink;  he 
would  not  dice;  he  would  not  be  a  country  gentleman;  he 
would  not  be  a  politician.  He  would,  in  short,  be  nothing 
save  what  it  pleased  him  to  be. 

On  the  whole  it  pleased  him  best  to  be  a  gentleman,  for 

182 


HORACE    WALPOLE 

there  is  no  reason  why  a  gentleman  should  not  write  the 
wittiest  letters  in  the  world,  provided  that  he  does  it  care- 
lessly, and  has  for  correspondents  the  most  exalted  and  the 
most  accomplished  of  his  time.  The  chief  characteristic  of 
this  class  he  had  acquired  very  young,  perhaps  at  the  cost  of 
some  labour — even,  it  is  possible,  of  some  renunciation. 
'Good-night,  child,  I  am  in  a  violent  hurry.'  Whatever 
pains  his  letter  had  cost  him,  it  was  essential  to  pass  it  off 
as  the  merest  trifle,  something  dashed  down  while  he  waited 
for  the  rain  to  stop — something,  as  the  phrasing  shows, 
spontaneous,  careless,  but  spoken  naturally  in  a  tone  of  the 
highest  breeding.  He  was  careful  to  repeat  the  boast  that 
he  was  in  a  violent  hurry  whenever  he  wrote  anything.  As 
.for  rhapsody  of  emotion  or  profundity  of  learning,  those 
qualities  he  left  to  the  professional  writers  who  had  only 
their  brains  to  live  by.  Moreover,  it  is  permissible  for  the 
amateur  to  spend  his  time  over  problems  which  fascinated 
Walpole,  though  no  man  of  sense  could  waste  a  thought 
upon  them.  Since  no  one,  himself  least  of  all,  took  him 
seriously,  he  could  devote  several  pages  to  the  discussion  of 
that  difficult  and  vexed  question — the  age  at  which  Lady 
Desmond  died.  Was  she  really  163,  and  could  it  be  possible 
that  she  had  danced  with  Richard  the  Third?  For  some 
reason  these  questions  stirred  his  imagination.  His  eagerness 
to  know  the  exact  condition  of  Queen  Catherine  Parr's 
corpse,  when  it  was  dug  up  and  examined,  would  seem 
excessive — save  indeed  that  the  lady  was  of  the  highest  rank. 
For  it  is  not  possible  to  deny  that  he  was  a  snob,  and  of  the 
determined  breed  whose  mothers  have  been  Shorters  while 
their  fathers,  though  not  of  noble  birth,  have  been  exalted 
by  their  abilities  to  familiar  converse  with  the  great.  Yet 
once  that  dart  is  levelled,  no  other  can  find  a  lodgment.  It  is 
not  easy  to  call  him  dilettante  or  gossip,  poetaster  or  dandy, 
when  before  these  charges  are  out  of  your  mouth  the  culprit 
has  owned  them  of  his  own  accord  and  gone  out  of  his  way 
to  pronounce  his  sentence: 

Good  God!  Sir,  what  am  I  that  I  should  be  offended  at, 
or  above,  criticism  or  correction?  I  do  not  know  who  ought 

183 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

to  be — I  am  sure  no  author.  I  am  a  private  man  of  no 
consequence,  and  at  best  an  author  of  very  moderate 
abilities. 

Even  in  matters  of  taste,  upon  which  he  had  spent  most  of 
his  life  and  a  large  part  of  his  fortune,  he  was  open  to 
correction  by  people  possessed  of  greater  learning  than  he 
could  claim.  He  was  nothing  but  a  private  gentleman. 

The  reader  will  perceive  that  the  habit  of  understatement 
is  not  only  the  essence  of  good  breeding,  but  also  a  tool  of 
great  value  in  the  hand  of  a  writer.  An  author  who  knows  no 
more  than  other  people,  who  has  no  dignity  to  keep  up,  no 
convictions  to  enforce,  no  philosophy  to  expound,  can  say 
what  he  likes  and  think  what  he  chooses.  No  one  need 
attend  to  him.  But  if,  in  addition,  by  a  mere  stroke  of  luck, 
he  possesses  the  wittiest  of  pens  and  the  most  observant  of 
eyes,  if  he  knows  everybody  worth  knowing  and  sees  every- 
thing worth  seeing,  we  shall  of  course  get  every  word  he 
writes  by  heart.  Since,  however,  writers  should  be  serious, 
we  shall  in  revenge  allow  him  very  little  credit  for  his 
performance.  It  is  the  fashion  to  say  that  Walpole  was  so 
amusing  because  he  was  so  frivolous,  so  witty  because  he  was 
so  heartless.  He  was  certainly  very  much  put  out  when  old 
Madame  du  Deffand  fell  in  love  with  him,  and  thought  that 
at  her  age  she  could  afford  to  talk  about  it  openly.  'Des  le 
moment  que  je  cessai  d'etre  jeune,  j'ai  eu  une  peur  horrible 
de  devenir  un  vieillard  ridicule',  he  wrote  to  her;  and  she 
replied,  'Vos  craintes  sur  le  ridicule  sont  des  terreurs  pani- 
ques,  mais  on  ne  guerit  point  de  la  peur;  je  n'ai  point  vu  une 
semblable  faiblesse'.  He  was  terribly  afraid  of  ridicule,  and 
yet  the  old  lady,  whose  passion  he  had  snubbed,  showed 
considerable  penetration  when  she  spoke  of  Textreme 
verite  de  votre  caractere'.  Understatement  long  persisted  in, 
partly  from  motives  of  taste  and  propriety  and  partly  from 
fear  of  ridicule,  had  disciplined  Walpole's  emotions  so  that 
they  scarcely  dared  show  themselves  above  ground;  yet 
what  there  is  of  them,  as  sometimes  happens  with  emotions 
repressed  rather  than  exploited,  rings  startlingly  true.  '.  .  .  he 
loved  me  and  I  did  not  think  he  did',  he  wrote  of  his  quarrel 

184 


HORACE    WALPOLE 

with  Gray,  when  Gray  was  dead.  But  as  for  his  heart,  let 
that  rest  in  peace;  there  is  some  indecency  in  prying  into  it, 
and  he  would  certainly  prefer  that  we  should  credit  him 
with  none  at  all  than  allow  him  a  grain  too  much.  His  brain 
is  our  affair. 

And  yet  here  once  more  shall  we  not  be  guilty  of  some 
credulity  if  we  accept  him  entirely  at  his  own  estimate?  The 
affectation  of  indifference,  the  pose  of  amateurishness,  were 
common  foibles  at  that  time  among  men  of  birth  whose 
brains  could  not  abstain  altogether  from  the  inkpot.  But 
perhaps  there  were  moments  when  Walpole  wished  that 
his  father's  name  had  been  Shorter  as  well  as  his  mother's, 
and  that  fate  had  required  him  to  use  pen  and  paper  in 
earnest  and  not  merely  provide  them,  at  a  handsome  salary, 
for  the  use  of  the  young  men  at  the  Treasury.  At  any  rate 
his  warmest  praises  in  the  present  volume  are  not  for  Lady 
Di's  illustrations  in  'Sut  water'  to  the  Mysterious  Mother, 
nor  even  for  Mrs.  Darner's  model  of  'a  shock  dog  in  wax', 
but  for  the  plays  of  Shakespeare.  '  Moi,  je  me  ferais  bruler 
pour  la  primaute  de  Shakespeare.'  Admiring  the  French  and 
owing  much  to  them,  still  when  it  comes  to  tragedy  what 
are  Voltaire  and  Racine  and  Corneille,  compared  with 
Shakespeare?  How  did  Voltaire  dare  criticize  Shakespeare? 
'Grossly  ignorant  and  tasteless'  was  he  not  to  see  that  the 
phrase  '  a  bare  bodkin '  is  as  sublime  in  one  way  as  the  sim- 
plicity of  Lady  Percy's  speech  is  sublime  in  another?  'I  had 
rather  have  written  the  two  speeches  of  Lady  Percy  in  the 
second  part  of  Henry  IV  than  all  Voltaire.  .  .  .  But  my 
enthusiasm  for  Shakespeare  runs  away  with  me.'  That  is, 
indeed,  an  unwonted  spectacle.  But  perhaps  young  Mr. 
Jephson,  the  playwright,  owed  all  this  talk  about  Shake- 
speare and  the  English  language  'far  more  energie,  and 
more  sonorous  too,  than  the  French',  and  these  interesting 
speculations  about  'a  novel  diction',  'a  very  new  and 
peculiar  style'  which  might  have  amazing  effect,  'by  fixing 
on  some  region  of  whose  language  we  have  little  or  no  idea' 
— perhaps  Mr.  Jephson  drew  all  this  down  upon  himself 
because  the  old  dandy  and  aristocrat  did  for  the  time  being 

185 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

envy  young  Mr.  Jephson,  who  could  set  himself  seriously  to 
the  task  of  writing  and  need  not,  since  his  name  was  Jeph- 
son, scribble  off  a  tragedy  'in  a  violent  hurry'. 

A  queer  sort  of  imagination  haunted  the  seemingly  pro- 
saic edifice  of  Walpole's  mind.  What  but  imagination  gone 
astray  and  vagrant  over  pots  and  pans  instead  of  firmly  held 
in  place  was  his  love  of  knick-knacks  and  antiquities,  Straw- 
berry hills  and  decomposing  royalties?  And  once  at  least 
Walpole  made  a  little  confession  to  Madame  du  Deffand. 
Of  all  his  works  he  preferred  The  Castle  of  Otranto,  for  there 
he  said  'j'ai  laisse  courir  mon  imagination;  les  visions  et  les 
passions  m'echauffaient'.  Vision  and  passion  are  not  the 
gifts  that  we  should  ascribe  offhand  to  Horace  Walpole; 
and  yet  as  we  lose  ourselves  in  the  enormous  variety  and 
entertainment  of  his  letters  we  must  allow  that  somehow 
from  his  own  angle  he  saw  truly,  he  judged  independently. 
Somehow  he  was  not  only  the  wittiest  of  men,  but  the  most 
observant  and  not  the  least  kindly.  And  among  the  writers 
of  English  prose  he  wears  for  ever  and  with  a  peculiar  grace 
a  coronet  of  his  own  earning. 


1 86 


A  Friend  of  Johnson' 

A  GREAT  book,  like  a  great  nature,  may  have  disastrous 
effects  upon  other  people.  It  robs  them  of  their  char- 
acter and  substitutes  its  own.  No  one,  for  instance,  who  has 
read  what  Carlyle  has  to  say  about  Lamb  ever  rids  his  mind 
completely  of  the  impression,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  we 
judge  the  writer  of  it  far  more  than  his  victim.  Some  deposit 
remains  with  us.  It  is  strange  to  reflect  what  numbers  of 
men  and  women  live  in  our  minds  merely  because  Boswell 
took  a  note  of  their  talk.  Two  or  three  such  lines  have  a 
generating  power;  a  body  grows  from  the  seed.  The  ordinary 
English  reader  knows  Baretti  solely  through  Johnson.  '  His 
account  of  Italy',  said  Johnson,  'is  a  very  entertaining 
book;  and,  Sir,  I  know  no  man  who  carries  his  head  higher 
in  conversation  than  Baretti.  There  are  strong  powers  in  his 
mind.  He  has  not,  indeed,  many  hooks,  but  with  what  hooks 
he  has  he  grapples  very  forcibly.'  This  may  be,  as  Mr.  Colli- 
son-Morley  2  says,  'a  very  good  summary',  and  yet  his 
character  is  scarcely  to  be  summarized  thus;  his  vitality  is 
too  great  for  that.  Mr.  Gollison-Morley,  further,  has  the 
advantage  of  knowing  the  Italian  side  of  the  story. 

The  Barettis  came  from  Piedmont,  and  Giuseppe  boasted 
romantically  of  his  noble  birth.  He  could  not  live  at  home, 
where  they  wished  to  train  him  for  a  lawyer,  but  ran  away 
to  see  the  world.  He  lived  at  Milan,  Venice,  and  Turin  by 
his  pen,  turning  out  ceremonial  verses  to  order.  His  quali- 
ties, however,  were  not  those  that  bring  success.  He  was 
susceptible,  but  so  importunate  that  a  certain  Mrs.  Paradise 
had  to  snub  him  with  boiling  water  from  her  tea  urn.  Great 
animal  vigour  and  a  powerful  mind  made  him  insolent  and 
overbearing  in  manner  before  his  fame  authorized  it.  Thus 

1    Times  Literary  Supplement,  July  29,  1909. 
2  Giuseppe  Baretti  and  his  Friends,  by  Lacy  Collison-Morley. 

187 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

he  took  it  upon  himself  as  a  young  writer  to  denounce 
Goldoni,  the  Arcadians,  and  Italian  blank  verse,  when  they 
were  in  fashion;  later,  when  archaeology  was  the  rage,  he 
declared  that  antiquaries  should  be  clapped  into  lunatic 
asylums,  seeing  merely  the  pedantic  side  of  the  pursuit  and 
failing  from  some  lack  of  imagination  to  foretell  its  future. 
To  succeed  in  letters  needed  in  that  age  the  utmost  tact. 
Then  as  now  France  supplied  Italy  with  her  reading  to  a 
great  extent,  for  every  province  had  its  own  dialect;  authors 
were  miserably  paid,  and  their  manuscripts  had  to  be  passed 
by  two  censors.  Italy  afforded  no  place  for  a  man  whose 
intellect  led  him  to  despise  mere  grace  and  scholarship,  and 
whose  temper  urged  him  to  speak  out. 

He  decided  to  try  his  fortune  in  England.  He  was  amazed 
by  London:  Lincoln's  Inn,  he  wrote  home,  was  three  times 
the  size  of  St.  Mark's  Square;  'a  great  street,  hung  with 
painted  signs  and  clamourous  with  droves  of  oxen  and  of 
sheep,  carriages  and  foot  passengers,  ran  right  through  the 
city;  the  wheels  splash  you  with  mud  black  as  ink;  there  are 
women  of  "perfect  beauty"  mixing  with  horrid  cripples'; 
Fielding  told  him  that  a  thousand  or  even  two  thousand  die 
every  year  from  want  and  hunger,  'but  London  is  so  large 
it  is  hardly  noticed';  a  din  of  whips  and  curses  lasts  all  day 
long,  and  at  night  the  watchmen  cry  the  hours  hoarsely, 
'vile  hounds'  ring  bells  as  they  collect  the  letters;  sweeps, 
milk-women,  oyster-sellers  vociferate  perpetually.  In  spite 
of  this  London  gradually  ousted  all  other  places  in  his  affec- 
tions. To  begin  with  he  found  that  the  Italian  language  was 
in  fashion,  for  an  Italian  tour  was  essential;  and  the  Italian 
opera  was  so  popular  that  the  audience  followed  the  words 
by  the  light  of  private  candles.  He  could  thus  keep  himself 
by  teaching — one  of  his  pupils  being  the  famous  Mrs. 
Lennox,  by  whom  he  was  introduced  to  Johnson.  The  merits 
of  the  society  which  Johnson  ruled  were  precisely  to  the 
taste  of  Baretti.  He  loved  to  stretch  his  legs,  to  talk  enor- 
mously, to  mix  with  men  of  all  callings,  to  ramble  the  streets 
at  night  with  a  companion,  and  the  booksellers  with  their 
vast  and  indiscriminate  greed  for  copy  suited  his  powers 


A    FRIEND     OF    JOHNSON 

admirably.  His  mind,  we  know,  had  strong  hooks,  and 
having  set  himself  to  learn  English  he  made  extraordinary 
progress  in  'that  strange  and  most  irregular  tongue'.  He 
could  speak  street  slang  even,  and  soon  could  carry  on  a 
controversy  in  vigorous  English  prose.  It  is  typical  of  him 
that  he  could  acquire  any  living  language  with  enthusiasm, 
but  the  dead  languages  bored  him.  He  turned  out  diction- 
aries, and  translations  and  travels,  with  the  printer's  devil 
waiting  at  the  door,  until  a  lump  grew  on  his  finger  where 
the  pen  rested.  His  struggle  to  live  by  his  brains  is,  for  us, 
full  of  picturesque  adventures.  A  dissertation  upon  the 
Italian  poets  introduced  him  to  a  wealthy  English  gentleman 
who  had  been  engaged  on  a  translation  of  Ariosto  for 
twenty  years.  For  the  sake  of  Baretti's  advice  and  conversa- 
tion he  offered  him  a  house  and  garden  in  his  park,  a  gold 
watch  worth  forty  guineas,  and  a  wife.  But  the  friendship 
ended  in  bitterness;  it  was  said  that  the  watch  was  only  lent. 
Whether  it  was  that  Baretti  had  a  drop  of  hot  Southern 
blood  in  him,  or  whether  the  society  of  scholars  was  in  truth 
a  rough  and  hasty  world,  we  certainly  find  matter,  even  in 
a  slight  memoir  like  the  present,  for  comparisons  between 
that  age  and  this.  One  cannot  imagine,  for  instance,  that 
writers  then  retired  to  their  studies  or  worked  by  the  clock. 
They  seem  to  have  learnt  by  talk;  their  friendships  thus  were 
important  and  outspoken.  Conversation  was  a  kind  of  strife, 
and  the  jealousies  and  contradictions  which  attended  the 
display  gave  it  at  least  an  eager  excitement.  Goldsmith 
found  Baretti  'insolent  and  overbearing',  Baretti  thought 
Goldsmith  'an  unpolished  man,  and  an  absurd  companion'. 
Mrs.  Lennox,  having  complained  that  Baretti  paid  more 
attention  to  her  child  than  to  herself,  he  retorted:  'You  are  a 
child  in  stature  and  a  child  in  understanding',  being  gener- 
ally provoking,  where  opportunity  offered.  Indeed  a  society 
of  clever  people  whose  witticisms,  jealousies,  and  emotions 
circulate  is  much  like  a  society  of  children.  Reticence  and 
ceremony  seem  to  mark  middle  age. 

The  life  of  Baretti  reminds  us,  too,  in  a  singular  way  of  the 
rudeness  that  lay  outside  the  coffee-houses  and  the  clubs. 

189 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

One  afternoon  in  October,  1769,  he  walked  from  Soho  to 
the  Orange  coffee-house  in  the  Haymarket.  On  his  way 
back  a  woman  sitting  on  a  doorstep  jumped  up  and  struck 
him.  In  the  darkness  he  returned  the  blow,  whereupon  three 
bullies  set  upon  him,  and  he  was  chased  along  Oxenden 
Street,  shouting  'Murder'  with  a  crowd  at  his  heels,  who 
reviled  him  for  a  Frenchman.  One  man  made  dashes  for  his 
pigtail,  and  to  save  himself  Baretti  drew  a  silver-bladed 
fruit  knife,  and  stabbed  him  twice.  As  the  only  means  of 
escape,  for  he  was  stout,  near-sighted,  and  the  road  swam 
with  puddles,  he  burst  into  a  shop  and  gave  himself  up  to 
the  police.  Goldsmith,  we  notice,  drove  with  him  to  the 
prison  and  offered  him  'every  shilling'  in  his  purse.  The 
man  died  from  the  blow;  Baretti  was  acquitted,  and  the 
fruit  knife  used  to  be  shown  at  dessert.  The  same  kind  of 
roughness  marks  the  famous  friendship  with  the  Thrales,  of 
which  Mr.  Collison-Morley  gives  a  very  lively  account.  He 
lived  in  the  family,  not  as  a  regular  tutor  with  a  salary,  but 
as  a  hired  friend  who  must  talk  in  return  for  board  and 
lodging,  and  might  hope  for  an  occasional  present.  The 
good-natured  Mrs.  Thrale  stood  it  for  nearly  three  years, 
and  then,  finding  him  intolerable  with  his  airs  and  arro- 
gances, treated  him  'with  some  coldness';  whereupon  he  set 
down  his  dish  of  tea,  'not  half  drank',  went  'for  my  hat  and 
stick  that  lay  in  the  corner  of  the  room',  and  walked  off  to 
London  without  saying  goodbye.  Johnson  pleaded  for  him. 
'Forgive  him,  dearest  lady,  the  rather  because  of  his  mis- 
behaviour; I  am  afraid  he  has  learned  part  of  me.'  It  was 
true,  no  doubt,  that  he  traded  upon  a  certain  likeness  to  the 
doctor,  and  expected  the  same  consideration,  but  he  learnt 
much  from  him  that  was  wholly  admirable.  When  he  went 
back  to  Italy  in  1 763  he  found  that  the  old  abuses  at  which 
he  had  tilted  as  a  boy  were  still  rampant.  He  decided  to 
bring  out  a  review,  on  the  model  of  the  Rambler,  in  which  he 
could  lash  the  Arcadians  freely.  In  the  person  of  Aristarco 
he  delivered  himself  of  his  views  upon  the  state  of  Italian 
literature,  upon  blank  verse,  Goldoni  and  the  antiquaries, 
retailing  at  the  same  time  some  of  Johnson's  peculiarities — 

190 


A     FRIEND     OF    JOHNSON 

that  the  Scotch  are  inferior,  and  that  Milton  is  sometimes 
dull.  Nevertheless,  his  satire  told,  and  his  controversies 
raised  such  an  outcry  that  the  Frusta  letteraria  was  suspended. 
But  'no  such  criticism  had  as  yet  appeared  in  Italy'  and  it 
is  to-day  a  classic  among  his  countrymen.  But  he  'could  not 
enjoy  his  own  country'.  England  rewarded  him  with  a 
Secretaryship  at  the  Royal  Academy,  and  added  a  pension 
in  his  later  years.  For,  industrious  as  he  was,  and  in  receipt 
sometimes  of  huge  profits,  his  earnings  never  stuck  to  him. 
A  strange  kind  of  clumsiness  united  to  a  passionate  nature 
seemed  to  make  a  child  of  him.  What,  for  instance,  could  be 
more  childish  than  the  quarrel  with  Johnson  as  to  whether 
Omai,  an  Otaheitan,  had  beaten  him  at  chess  or  not?  'Do 
you  think  I  should  be  conquered  at  chess  by  a  savage?'  'I 
know  you  were',  says  Johnson.  The  two  men,  who  respected 
each  other,  parted  and  never  met  again.  English  people 
now  scarcely  read  his  books,  unless  it  be  the  Italian  diction- 
ary, but  his  life  is  worth  reading,  because  he  exhibits  so 
curious  a  mixture  of  power  and  weakness;  he  is  in  many  ways 
so  true  a  type  of  the  man  who  lived  by  his  pen  in  the  eigh- 
teenth century;  and  Mr.  Collison-Morley  fills  in  the  old  story 
as  Boswell  and  Mrs.  Thrale  told  it  with  new  matter  from 
Italian  sources.  His  life  was  full  and  vigorous;  as  for  his 
works,  he  wished  that  every  page  lay  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea. 


191 


Fanny  Burney's  Half-Sister' 

SINCE  a  copy  of  Evelina  was  lately  sold  for  the  enormous 
sum  of  four  thousand  pounds;  since  the  Clarendon  Press 
has  lately  bestowed  the  magnificent  compliment  of  a  new 
edition  upon  Evelina',  since  Maria  Allen  was  the  half-sister 
of  the  authoress  of  Evelina;  since  the  story  of  Evelina  owed 
much  to  the  story  of  Maria  Allen,  it  may  not  be  impertinent 
to  consider  what  is  still  to  be  collected  of  the  history  of  that 
misguided  and  unfortunate  girl. 

As  is  well  known,  Dr.  Burney  was  twice  married.  He  took 
for  his  second  wife  a  Mrs.  Allen  of  Lynn,  the  widow  of  a 
substantial  citizen  who  left  her  with  a  fortune  which  she 
promptly  lost,  and  with  three  children,  of  whom  one,  Maria, 
was  almost  the  same  age  as  Fanny  Burney  when  Dr.  Burney's 
second  marriage  made  them  half-sisters.  And  half-sisters 
they  might  have  remained  with  none  but  a  formal  tie 
between  them,  had  not  the  differences  between  the  two 
families  brought  about  a  much  closer  relationship.  The 
Burneys  were  the  gifted  children  of  gifted  parents.  They  had 
enjoyed  all  the  stimulus  that  comes  from  running  in  and  out 
of  rooms  where  grown-up  people  are  talking  about  books 
and  music,  where  the  piano  is  always  open,  and  somebody 
— it  may  be  David  Garrick,  it  may  be  Mrs.  Thrale — is 
always  dropping  in  to  dinner.  Maria,  on  the  other  hand,  had 
been  bred  in  the  provinces.  The  great  figures  of  Lynn  were 
well  known  to  her,  but  the  great  figures  of  Lynn  were  merely 
Miss  Dolly  Young — who  was  so  ugly — or  Mr.  Richard 
Warren,  who  was  so  handsome.  The  talk  she  heard  was  the 
talk  of  squires  and  merchants.  Her  greatest  excitement  was 
a  dance  at  the  Assembly  Rooms  or  a  scandal  in  the  town. 

Thus  she  was  rustic  and  unsophisticated  where  the  Bur- 
neys were  metropolitan  and  cultivated.  But  she  was  bold 
1    Times  Literary  Supplement,  August  28,  1 930. 
192 


FANNY    BURNEY   S    HALF-SISTER 

and  dashing  where  they  were  timid  and  reserved.  She  was 
all  agog  for  life  and  adventure  where  they  were  always 
running  away  in  agonies  of  shyness  to  commit  their  innumer- 
able observations  to  reams  of  paper.  Unrefined,  but  generous 
and  unaffected,  she  brought  to  Poland  Street  that  whiff  of 
fresh  air,  that  contact  with  ordinary  life  and  ease  in  the 
presence  of  ordinary  things,  which  the  precocious  family 
lacked  themselves  and  found  most  refreshing  in  others. 
Sometimes  she  visited  them  in  London;  sometimes  they 
stayed  with  her  at  Lynn.  Soon  she  came  to  feel  for  them  all, 
but  for  Fanny  in  particular,  a  warm,  a  genuine,  a  surprised 
admiration.  They  were  so  learned  and  so  innocent;  they 
knew  so  many  things,  and  yet  they  did  not  know  half  as 
much  about  life  as  she  did.  It  was  to  them,  naturally,  that 
she  confided  her  own  peccadilloes  and  adventures,  wishing 
perhaps  for  counsel,  wishing  perhaps  to  impress.  Fanny  was 
one  of  those  shy  people — '  I  am  not  near  so  squeamish  as  you 
are',  Maria  observed — who  draw  out  the  confidences  of 
their  bolder  friends  and  delight  in  accounts  of  actions  which 
they  could  not  possibly  commit  themselves.  Thus  in  1770 
Fanny  was  imparting  to  her  diary  certain  confidences  that 
Maria  had  made  her  of  such  a  nature  that  when  she  read 
the  book  later  she  judged  it  best  to  tear  out  twelve  pages  and 
burn  them.  Happily,  a  packet  of  letters  survives  which, 
though  rather  meagrely  doled  out  by  an  editor  in  the 
eighties,  who  thought  them  too  full  of  dashes  to  be  worthy  of 
the  dignity  of  print,  allow  us  to  guess  pretty  clearly  what 
kind  of  secret  Maria  confided  and  Fanny  recorded,  and 
Fanny,  grown  mature,  then  tore  up. 

For  example,  there  was  an  Assembly  at  Lynn  some  time 
in  1770  to  which  Maria  did  not  want  to  go.  Bet  Dickens, 
however,  overcame  her  scruples,  and  she  went.  However, 
she  was  determined  not  to  dance.  However,  she  did  dance. 
Martin  was  there.  She  broke  her  earring.  She  danced  a 
minuet  a  quatre.  She  got  into  the  chariot  to  come  home. 
She  came  home.  'Was  I  alone? — guess — well,  all  is  vanity 
and  vexations  of  spirit.'  It  needs  little  ingenuity  to  interpret 
these  nods  and  winks  and  innuendoes.  Maria  danced  with 

193 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

Martin.  She  came  home  with  Martin.  She  sat  alone  with 
Martin,  and  she  had  been  strictly  forbidden  by  her  mother 
to  meet  Martin.  That  is  obvious.  But  what  is  not,  after  all 
these  years,  quite  so  clear  is  for  what  reason  Mrs.  Allen 
disapproved.  On  the  face  of  it  Martin  Rishton  was  a  very 
good  match  for  Maria  Allen.  He  was  well  born,  he  had  been 
educated  at  Oxford,  he  was  the  heir  of  his  uncle  Sir  Richard 
Bettenson,  and  Sir  Richard  Bettenson  had  five  thousand  a 
year  and  no  children.  Nevertheless,  Maria's  mother  warmly 
opposed  the  match.  She  said  rather  vaguely  that  Martin 
'had  been  extravagant  at  Oxford,  and  that  she  had  heard 
some  story  that  he  had  done  something  unworthy  of  a 
gentleman'.  But  her  ostensible  objections  were  based  per- 
haps upon  others  which  were  less  easy  to  state.  There  was 
her  daughter's  character,  for  example.  Maria  was  'a  droll 
girl  with  a  very  great  love  of  sport  and  mirth'.  Her  temper 
was  lively  and  warm.  She  was  extremely  outspoken.  '  If 
possible,'  Fanny  said,  'she  is  too  sincere.  She  pays  too  little 
regard  to  the  world;  and  indulges  herself  with  too  much 
freedom  of  raillery  and  pride  of  disdain  towards  those  whose 
vices  and  follies  offend  her.'  When  Mrs.  Allen  looked  from 
Maria  to  Martin  she  saw,  there  can  be  no  doubt,  something 
that  made  her  uneasy.  But  what?  Perhaps  it  was  nothing 
more  than  that  Martin  was  particular  about  appearances 
and  Maria  rather  slack;  that  Martin  was  conventional  by 
nature  and  Maria  the  very  opposite;  that  Martin  liked  dress 
and  decorum  and  that  Maria  was  one  of  those  heedless  girls 
who  say  the  first  thing  that  comes  into  their  heads  and  never 
reflect,  if  they  are  amused  themselves,  what  people  will  say 
if  they  have  holes  in  their  stockings.  Whatever  the  reason, 
Mrs.  Allen  forbade  the  match;  and  Sir  Richard  Bettenson, 
whether  to  meet  her  views  or  for  educational  purposes,  sent 
his  nephew  in  the  beginning  of  177 1  to  travel  for  two  years 
abroad.     Maria  remained  at  Lynn. 

Five  months,  however,  had  not  passed  before  Martin 
burst  in  unexpectedly  at  a  dinner  party  of  relations  in 
Welbeck  Street.  He  looked  very  well,  but  when  he  was 
asked  why  he  had  come  back  in  such  a  hurry,  'he  smiled, 

194 


FANNY    BURNEY    S    HALF-SISTER 

but  said  nothing  to  the  question'.  Maria,  although  still  at 
Lynn,  at  once  got  wind  of  his  arrival.  Soon  she  saw  him  at  a 
dance,  but  she  did  not  dance  with  him  and  the  ban  was 
evidently  enforced,  for  her  letters  become  plaintive  and 
agitated  and  hint  at  secrets  that  she  cannot  reveal,  even  to 
her  dear  toads  the  Burneys.  It  was  now  her  turn  to  be  sent 
abroad,  partly  to  be  out  of  Martin's  way,  partly  to  finish  her 
education.  She  was  dispatched  to  Geneva.  But  the  Burneys 
soon  received  a  packet  from  her.  In  the  first  place,  she  had 
some  little  commissions  that  she  must  ask  them  to  discharge. 
Would  they  send  her  a  pianoforte,  some  music,  Fordyce's 
sermons,  a  tea  cadet,  an  ebony  inkstand  with  silver-plated 
tops,  and  a  very  pretty  naked  wax  doll  with  blue  eyes  to  be 
had  in  Fleet-street  for  half  a  crown — all  of  which,  if  well 
wrapped  up,  could  travel  safely  in  the  case  of  the  pianoforte. 
She  had  no  money  to  pay  with  at  the  moment,  for  she  had 
been  persuaded  and  indeed  was  sure  that  it  was  true  eco- 
nomy if  one  passed  through  Paris  to  spend  all  one's  money 
on  clothes.  But  she  could  always  sell  her  diamonds  or  she 
would  give  them  'a  bill  on  somebody  in  London'.  These 
trifling  matters  dispatched,  she  turned  to  something  of  far 
greater  importance.  Indeed,  what  she  had  to  say  was  so 
important  that  it  must  be  burnt  at  once.  Indeed,  it  was  only 
her  great  distress  and  being  alone  in  a  foreign  land  that  led 
her  to  tell  them  at  all.  But  the  truth  was — so  far  as  can  now 
be  ascertained  among  the  fragments  and  the  dashes — the 
truth  was  that  she  had  gone  much  farther  with  Martin  than 
anybody  knew.  She  had  in  fact  confessed  her  love  to  him. 
And  he  had  proposed  something  which  had  made  her  very 
angry.  She  had  refused  to  do  it.  She  had  written  him  a  very 
angry  letter.  She  had  had  indeed  to  write  it  three  times  over 
before  she  got  it  right.  When  he  read  it  he  was  furious.  '  Did 
my  character',  he  wrote,  'ever  give  you  reason  to  imagine 
I  should  expose  you  because  you  loved  me?  'Tis  thoroughly 
unnatural — I  defy  the  world  to  bring  an  instance  of  my 
behaving  unworthy  the  Character  of  a  Gentleman.'  These 
were  his  very  words.  And,  Maria  wrote,  'I  think  such  the 
sentiments  of  a  Man  of  Honour,  and  such  I  hope  to  find 

195 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

him',  she  concluded;  for  although  she  knew  very  well  that 
Hetty  Burney  and  Mr.  Crisp  disliked  him,  he  was — here  she 
came  out  with  it — the  man  'on  whom  all  my  happiness  in 
this  Life  depends  and  in  whom  I  wish  to  see  no  faults'.  The 
Burneys  hid  the  letters,  breathed  not  a  word  to  their  parents, 
and  waited  in  suspense.  Nor  did  they  have  to  wait  long. 
Before  the  spring  was  over  Maria  was  back  again  in  Poland 
Street  and  in  circumstances  so  romantic,  so  exciting  and 
above  all  so  secret  that  'I  dare  not,'  Fanny  exclaimed, 
'commit  particulars  to  paper.'  This  much  (and  one  would 
have  thought  it  enough)  only  could  be  said:  'Miss  Allen — 
for  the  last  time  I  shall  call  her  so, — came  home  on  Monday 
last .  .  .  she — was  married  last  Saturday! '  It  was  true.  Martin 
Rishton  had  gone  out  secretly  to  join  her  abroad.  They  had 
been  married  at  Ypres  on  May  16,  1772.  On  the  18th  Maria 
reached  England  and  confided  the  grand  secret  to  Fanny 
and  Susan  Burney,  but  she  told  no  one  else.  They  were 
afraid  to  tell  her  mother.  They  were  afraid  to  tell  Dr. 
Burney.  In  their  dilemma  they  turned  to  the  strange  man 
who  was  always  their  confidant — to  Samuel  Crisp  of 
Chesington. 

Many  years  before  this  Samuel  Crisp  had  retired  from  the 
world.  He  had  been  a  man  of  parts,  a  man  of  fashion,  and  a 
man  of  great  social  charm.  But  his  fine  friends  had  wasted 
his  substance  and  his  clever  friends  had  damned  his  play. 
In  disgust  with  the  insincerity  of  fashionable  life  and  the 
fickleness  of  fame  he  had  withdrawn  to  a  decayed  manor 
house  near  London,  which,  however,  was  so  far  from  the 
high  road  and  so  hidden  from  travellers  in  the  waste  of  a 
common  that  no  one  could  find  it  unless  specially  instructed. 
But  Mr.  Crisp  was  careful  to  issue  no  instructions.  The 
Burneys  were  almost  the  only  friends  who  knew  the  way 
across  the  fields  to  his  door.  But  the  Burneys  could  never 
come  often  enough.  He  depended  upon  the  Burneys  for  life 
and  society  and  for  news  of  the  great  world  which  he  des- 
pised and  yet  could  not  forget.  The  Burney  children  stood 
to  him  in  the  place  of  his  own  children.  Upon  them  he 
lavished  all  the  shrewdness  and  knowledge  and  disillusion- 

196 


FANNY    BURNEY    S    HALF-SISTER 

ment  which  he  had  won  at  such  cost  to  himself  and  now 
found  so  useless  in  an  old  manor  house  on  a  wild  common 
with  only  old  Mrs.  Hamilton  and  young  Kitty  Cook  to  bear 
him  company. 

It  was,  then,  to  Chesington  and  to  Daddy  Crisp  that 
Maria  Rishton  and  Susan  Burney  made  their  way  on  June  7 
with  their  tremendous  secret  burning  in  their  breasts.  At 
first  Maria  was  too  nervous  to  tell  him  the  plain  truth.  She 
tried  to  enlighten  him  with  hints  and  hums  and  haws.  But  she 
succeeded  only  in  rousing  his  wrath  against  Martin,  which 
he  expressed  so  strongly,  'almost  calling  him  a  Mahoon', 
that  Maria  began  to  kindle  and  ran  off  in  a  huff  to  her 
bedroom.  Here  she  resolved  to  take  the  bull  by  the  horns. 
She  summoned  Kitty  Cook  and  sent  her  to  Mr.  Crisp  with 
a  saucy  message:  'Mrs.  Rishton  sent  compts.  and  hoped  to 
see  him  at  Stanhoe  this  summer'.  Upon  receiving  the  mes- 
sage Mr.  Crisp  came  in  haste  to  the  girls'  bedroom.  An 
extraordinary  scene  then  took  place.  Maria  knelt  on  the 
floor  and  hid  her  face  in  the  bedclothes.  Mr.  Crisp  com- 
manded her  to  tell  the  truth — was  she  indeed  Mrs.  Rishton? 
Maria  could  not  speak.  Kitty  Cook  'claw'd  hold  of  her 
left  hand  and  shew'd  him  the  ring'.  Then  Susan  produced 
two  letters  from  Martin  which  proved  the  fact  beyond  doubt. 
They  had  been  married  legally.  They  were  man  and  wife. 
If  that  were  so,  there  was  only  one  thing  to  be  done,  Mr. 
Crisp  declared — Mrs.  Burney  must  be  informed  and  the 
marriage  must  be  made  public  at  once.  He  behaved  with 
all  the  sense  and  decision  of  a  man  of  the  world.  He  wrote 
to  Maria's  mother — he  explained  the  whole  situation.  On 
getting  the  letter  Mrs.  Burney  was  extremely  angry.  She 
received  the  couple — she  could  do  nothing  else — but  she 
never  liked  Martin  and  she  never  altogether  forgave  her 
daughter.  However,  the  deed  was  done,  and  now  the  young 
couple  had  nothing  to  do  but  to  settle  down  to  enjoy  the 
delights  which  they  had  snatched  so  impetuously. 

All  now  depended,  for  those  who  loved  Maria — and 
Fanny  Burney  loved  her  very  dearly — upon  the  character 
of  Martin  Rishton.  Was  he,  as  Mr.  Crisp  almost  said,  a 

197 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

Mahoon?  Or  was  he,  as  his  sister  openly  declared,  a  Bashaw? 
Would  he  make  her  happy  or  would  he  not?  The  discerning 
and  affectionate  eyes  of  Fanny  were  now  turned  observingly 
upon  Martin  to  find  out.  And  yet  it  was  very  difficult  to 
find  out  anything  for  certain.  He  was  a  strange  mixture.  He 
was  high-spirited;  he  was  'prodigiously  agreeable'.  But  he 
was  somehow,  with  his  talk  of  vulgarity  and  distinction, 
rather  exacting — he  liked  his  wife  to  do  him  credit.  For 
example,  the  Rishtons  went  on  to  take  the  waters  at  Bath, 
and  there  were  the  usual  gaieties  in  progress.  Fischer  was 
giving  a  concert,  and  the  eldest  Miss  Linley  was  singing, 
perhaps  for  the  last  time.  All  Bath  would  be  there.  But  poor 
Maria  sat  alone  in  the  lodgings  writing  to  Fanny,  and  the 
reason  she  gave  was  a  strange  one.  Martin,  'who  is  rather 
more  exact  about  dress  than  I  am,  can't  think  of  my 
appearing'  unless  she  bought  a  'suit  of  mignionet  linen 
fringed  for  second  mourning'  to  go  in.  She  refused;  the 
dress  was  too  expensive;  'and  as  he  was  unwilling  I  should 
appear  else,  I  gave  up  the  dear  Fischer — see  what  a  cruel 
thing  to  have  a  sposo  who  is  rather  a  p-p-y  in  those  sort  of 
things'.  So  there  she  sat  alone;  and  she  hated  Bath;  and 
she  found  servants  such  a  nuisance — she  had  had  to  dismiss 
the  butler  already.  At  the  same  time,  she  was  head  over 
heels  in  love  with  her  Rishy,  and  one  would  like  to  suppose 
that  the  tiff  about  the  dress  was  made  up  by  the  present  of 
Romeo,  the  remarkably  fine  brown  Pomeranian  dog,  which 
Martin  bought  for  a  large  sum  at  this  time  and  gave  her. 
Martin  himself  had  a  passion  for  dogs. 

It  was  no  doubt  in  order  to  gratify  his  love  of  sport  and 
Maria's  dislike  of  towns  that  they  moved  on  later  that 
spring  to  Teignmouth,  or  as  Maria  calls  it,  to  'Tingmouth', 
in  Devon.  The  move  was  entirely  to  her  liking.  Her  letters 
gushed  and  burbled,  had  fewer  stops  and  more  dashes  than 
ever,  as  she  endeavoured  to  describe  the  delights  of  Ting- 
mouth  to  Fanny  in  London.  Their  cottage  was  '  one  of  the 
neatest  Thatch'd  cottages  you  ever  saw'.  It  belonged  to  a 
sea  captain.  It  was  full  of  china  glass  flowers  that  he  had 
brought  home  from  his  voyages.  It  was  hung  with  prints 

198 


FANNY    BURNEY    S    HALF-SISTER 

from  the  Prayer-book  and  the  Bible.  There  were  also  two 
pictures,  one  said  to  be  by  Raphael,  the  other  by  Correggio. 
The  Miss  Minifies  might  have  described  it  as  a  retreat  for  a 
heroine.  It  looked  on  to  a  green.  The  fisher-people  were 
simple  and  happy.  Their  cottages  were  clean  and  their 
children  were  healthy.  The  sea  was  full  of  whiting,  salmon, 
and  young  mackerel.  Martin  had  bought  a  brace  of  beauti- 
ful spaniels.  It  was  a  great  diversion  to  make  them  go 
into  the  water.  'Indeed,  we  intend  getting  a  very  large 
Newfoundland  dog  before  we  leave  this  place.'  And 
they  intended  to  go  for  expeditions  and  take  their  dinner 
with  them.  And  Fanny  must  come.  Nothing  could  serve 
them  but  that  Fanny  should  come  and  stay.  It  was  mon- 
strous for  her  to  say  that  she  must  stop  at  home  and  copy 
her  father's  manuscripts.  She  must  come  at  once;  and  if 
she  came  she  need  not  spend  a  penny,  for  Maria  wore 
nothing  but  a  common  linen  gown  and  had  not  had  her 
hair  dressed  once  since  she  came  here.  In  short,  Fanny  must 
come. 

Thus  solicited,  Fanny  arrived  some  time  in  July,  1773, 
and  for  almost  two  months  lodged  in  the  boxroom — the 
other  rooms  were  so  littered  with  dogs  and  poultry  that 
they  had  to  put  her  in  the  boxroom — and  observed  the 
humours  of  Tingmouth  society  and  the  moods  of  the  lovers. 
There  could  be  no  doubt  that  they  were  still  very  much  in 
love,  but  the  truth  was  that  Tingmouth  was  very  gay.  A 
great  many  families  made  it  their  summer  resort;  there  were 
the  Phippses  and  the  Hurrels  and  the  Westerns  and  the 
Golbournes;  there  was  Mr.  Crispen— -perhaps  the  most  dis- 
tinguished man  in  Tingmouth — Mr.  Green  who  lodged  with 
Mr.  Crispen  and  Miss  Bowdler.  Naturally,  in  so  small  a 
place,  everybody  knew  everybody.  The  Phippses,  the  Hur- 
rels, the  Rishtons,  the  Colbournes,  Mr.  Crispen,  Mr.  Green 
and  Miss  Bowdler  must  meet  incessantly.  They  must  make 
up  parties  to  go  to  the  wrestling  matches,  and  attend  the 
races  in  their  whiskeys,  and  see  the  country  people  run  after 
a  pig  whose  tail  had  been  cut  off.  Much  coming  and  going 
was  inevitable;  but,  as  Fanny  soon  observed,  it  was  not  alto- 

199 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

gether  to  Martin's  liking.  'They  will  soon  make  this  as 
errant  a  public  place  as  Bristol  Hotwells  or  any  other  place,' 
he  grumbled.  He  had  nothing  whatever  to  say  against  the 
Phippses  or  the  Westerns;  he  had  the  greatest  respect  for 
the  Hurrels,  which  was  odd,  considering  how  very  fat  and 
greedy  Mr.  Hurrel  was;  Mr.  Crispen,  of  course,  who  lived 
at  Bath  and  spoke  Italian  perfectly,  one  must  respect;  but 
the  fact  was,  Martin  confided  to  Fanny,  that  he  'almost 
detested '  Miss  Bowdler.  Miss  Bowdler  came  of  a  respectable 
family.  Her  brother  was  destined  to  edit  Shakespeare.  Her 
family  were  old  friends  of  the  Aliens.  One  could  not  forbid 
her  the  house;  in  fact  she  was  always  in  and  out  of  it;  and 
yet,  said  Martin,  'he  could  not  endure  even  the  sight  of  her'. 
'A  woman',  said  Martin,  'who  despises  the  customs  and 
manners  of  the  country  she  lives  in,  must,  consequently, 
conduct  herself  with  impropriety.'  And,  indeed,  she  did. 
For  though  she  was  only  twenty-six  she  had  come  to  Ting- 
mouth  alone;  and  then  she  made  no  secret  of  the  fact,  indeed 
she  avowed  it  quite  openly  'in  the  fair  face  of  day',  that  she 
visited  Mr.  Crispen  in  his  lodgings,  and  not  merely  paid  a 
call  but  stayed  to  supper.  Nobody  had  'the  most  distant 
shadow  of  doubt  of  Miss  Bowdler's  being  equally  innocent 
with  those  who  have  more  worldly  prudence'  but  at  the 
same  time  nobody  could  doubt  that  Miss  Bowdler  found  the 
society  of  gentlemen  more  entertaining  than  that  of  ladies — 
or  could  deny  that  though  Mr.  Crispen  was  old,  Mr.  Green 
who  lodged  with  him  was  young.  Then,  of  course,  she  came 
on  to  the  Rishtons  and  encouraged  Maria  in  her  least  desir- 
able attribute — her  levity,  her  love  of  chaff,  her  carelessness 
of  dress  and  deportment.     It  was  deplorable. 

Fanny  Burney  liked  Martin  very  much  and  listened  to  his 
complaints  with  sympathy;  but  for  all  her  charm  and  dis- 
tinction, indeed  because  of  them,  she  was  destined  unfor- 
tunately to  make  matters  worse.  Among  her  gifts  she  had  the 
art  of  being  extremely  attractive  to  elderly  gentlemen.  Soon 
Mr.  Crispen  was  paying  her  outrageous  attentions.  'Little 
Burney'  he  said  was  irresistible;  the  name  of  Burney  would 
be  found — with  many  others,  Miss  Bowdler  interjected — 

200 


FANNY    BURNEY'S    HALF-SISTER 

cut  upon  his  heart.  Mr.  Crispen  must  implore  one  kiss.  It 
was  said  of  course  in  jest,  but  Miss  Bowdler  took  it  of  course 
in  earnest.  Had  she  not  nursed  Mr.  Crispen  through  a 
dangerous  illness?  Had  she  not  sacrificed  her  maidenly 
reputation  by  visiting  him  in  his  cottage?  And  then  Martin, 
who  had  been  perhaps  already  annoyed  by  Mr.  Crispen's 
social  predominance,  found  it  galling  in  the  extreme  to  have 
that  gentleman  always  in  the  house,  always  paying  out- 
rageous compliments  to  his  guest.  Anything  that  'led  to- 
wards flirtation'  he  disliked;  and  soon  Mr.  Crispen  had 
become,  Fanny  observed,  almost  as  odious  as  Miss  Bowdler. 
He  threw  himself  into  the  study  of  Italian  grammar;  he  read 
aloud  to  Maria  and  Fanny  from  the  Faery  Queen,  '  omitting 
whatever,  to  the  poet's  great  disgrace,  has  crept  in  that  is 
improper  for  a  woman's  ear'.  But  what  with  Miss  Bowdler, 
Mr.  Crispen,  the  Tingmothians  and  the  influence  of  un- 
desirable acquaintances  upon  his  wife,  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  Martin  was  very  uncomfortable  at  Tingmouth,  and 
when  the  time  came,  on  September  1 7,  to  say  good-bye  he 
appeared  'in  monstrous  spirits'.  Perhaps  everybody  was 
glad  that  the  summer  was  at  an  end.  They  were  glad  to  say 
good-bye  and  glad  to  be  able  to  say  it  in  civil  terms.  Mr. 
Crispen  left  for  Bath;  and  Miss  Bowdler — there  is  no  rash- 
ness in  the  assumption — left,  for  Bath  also. 

The  Rishtons  proceeded  in  their  whiskey  with  all  their 
dogs  to  visit  the  Westerns,  one  of  the  few  families  with  whom 
Martin  cared  to  associate.  But  the  journey  was  unfortunate. 
They  began  by  taking  the  wrong  turning,  then  they  ran 
over  Tingmouth,  the  Newfoundland  dog,  who  was  running 
under  the  body  of  the  whiskey.  Then  at  Oxford  Maria 
longed  to  see  the  colleges,  but  feeling  sure  that  Martin's 
pride  would  be  hurt  at  showing  himself  in  a  whiskey  with  a 
wife  where  in  the  old  days  he  had  '  shone  forth  a  gay  bachelor 
with  a  phaeton  and  four  bays',  she  refused  his  offer  to  take 
her,  and  had  her  hair  dressed,  very  badly,  instead.  Off  they 
went  again,  and  again  they  ran  over  two  more  dogs.  Worst 
of  all,  when  they  arrived  at  the  Westerns'  they  found  the 
whole  house  shut  up  and  the  Westerns  gone  to  Buckingham- 

201 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

shire.  Altogether  it  was  an  unfortunate  expedition.  And  it  is 
impossible,  as  one  reads  Maria's  breathless  volubility  to 
Fanny,  to  resist  the  conviction  that  the  journey  with  its 
accidents  and  mistakes,  with  its  troop  of  dogs,  and  Martin's 
pride,  and  Maria's  fears  and  her  recourse  to  the  hairdresser 
and  the  hairdresser's  ill  success,  and  Martin's  memories  of 
gay  bachelor  days  and  phaetons  and  bay  horses  and  his 
respect  for  the  Westerns  and  his  love  of  servants  was  typical 
of  the  obscure  years  of  married  life  that  were  now  to  succeed 
each  other  at  Stanhoe,  in  Norfolk. 

At  Stanhoe  they  lived  the  lives  of  country  gentry.  They 
repaired  the  ancient  house,  though  they  had  but  the  lease  of 
it.  They  planted  and  cleaned  and  cut  new  walks  in  the 
garden.  They  bought  a  cow  and  started  a  dairy  for  Maria. 
Dog  was  added  to  dog— rare  dogs,  wonderful  dogs,  spaniels, 
lurchers,  Portugal  pointers  from  the  banks  of  the  Dowrow. 
To  keep  up  the  establishment  as  establishments  should  be 
kept  up,  nine  servants,  in  Martin's  opinion,  were  none  too 
many.  And  so,  though  she  had  no  children,  Maria  found 
that  all  her  time  was  occupied  with  her  household  and  the 
care  of  her  establishment.  But  how  far  better,  she  wrote,  to 
be  active  like  this  instead  of  leading  'the  loitering  life'  she 
had  led  at  Tingmouth!  Surely,  Maria  continued,  scribbling 
her  heart  out  ungrammatically  to  Fanny  Burney,  '  there  are 
pleasures  for  every  station  and  employment',  and  one 
cannot  be  bored  if '  as  I  hope  I  am  acting  properly ' ;  so  that 
in  sober  truth  she  did  not  envy  Fanny  Lord  Stanhope's 
fete-champetre,  since  she  had  her  chickens  and  her  dairy,  and 
Tingmouth,  who  had  had  the  distemper,  must  be  led  out  on 
a  string.  Why,  then,  regret  Miss  Bowdler  and  Mr.  Crispen 
and  the  sport  and  gaiety  of  the  old  days  at  Tingmouth? 
Nevertheless,  the  old  days  kept  coming  back  to  her  mind. 
At  Tingmouth,  she  reflected,  they  had  only  kept  a  man  and 
a  maid.  Here  they  had  nine  servants,  and  the  more  there  are 
the  more  'cabally  and  insolent'  they  become.  And  then 
relations  came  over  from  Lynn  and  pried  into  her  kitchen 
and  made  her  more  'bashful',  as  Martin  would  say,  than 
ever.  And  then  if  she  sat  down  to  her  tambour  for  half  an 

202 


FANNY    BURNEY   S    HALF-SISTER 

hour  Martin,  'who  is  I  believe  the  Most  Active  Creature 
alive',  would  burst  in  and  say.  'Come  Maria,  you  must  go 
with  me  and  see  how  charmingly  Damon  hunts' — or  he 
would  say  '  I  know  of  a  pheasant's  nest  about  two  miles  off, 
you  shall  go  and  see  it'. 

'  Then  away  we  trail  broiling  over  Cornfields — and  when 
we  come  to  the  pit  some  Unlucky  boy  has  Stole  the  Eggs  .  .  . 
then  I  spend  Whole  Mornings  seeing  him  Shoot  Rooks — 
grub  up  trees— and  at  night  for  we  never  come  in  now  till 
Nine  o'clock — when  tea  is  over  and  I  have  settled  my  ac- 
counts or  done  some  company  business— bed-time  Comes.' 

Bedtime  had  come;  and  the  day  had  been  somehow  dis- 
appointing. 

How  could  she  mend  matters?  How  could  she  save  money 
so  that  Martin  could  buy  the  phaeton  upon  which  his  heart 
had  been  set  ever  since  they  were  married?  She  might  save 
on  dress,  for  she  did  not  mind  what  she  wore;  but  alas; 
Martin  was  very  particular  still;  he  did  not  like  her  to  dress 
in  linen.  So  she  must  manage  better  in  the  house,  and  she 
was  not  formed  to  manage  servants.  Thus  she  began  to  dwell 
upon  those  happy  days  before  she  had  gone  to  Tingmouth, 
before  she  had  married,  before  she  had  nine  servants  and  a 
phaeton  and  ever  so  many  dogs.  She  began  to  brood  over 
that  still  more  distant  time  when  she  had  first  known  the 
Burneys  and  they  had  sat '  browsing  over  my  little  [fire]  and 
eating  good  things  out  of  the  closet  by  the  fire  side'.  Her 
thoughts  turned  to  all  those  friends  whom  she  had  lost,  to 
that  'lovd  society  which  I  remember  with  the  greatest 
pleasure';  and  she  could  never  forget  in  particular  the 
paternal  kindness  of  Dr.  Burney.  Oh,  she  sighed  as  she  sat 
alone  in  Norfolk  among  the  pheasants  and  the  fields,  how 
she  wished  that  '  none  of  my  family  had  ever  quitted  his 
sheltering  roof  till  placed  under  the  protection  of  a  worthy 
husband'.  For  her  own  marriage — but  enough;  they  had 
been  very  much  in  love;  they  had  been  very  happy;  she 
must  go  and  do  her  hair;  she  must  try  to  please  her  Rishy. 
And  so  the  obscure  history  of  the  Rishtons  fades  away,  save 
what  is  preserved  by  the  sprightly  pen  of  Maria's  half-sister 

203 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

in  the  pages  of  Evelina.  And  yet — the  reflection  will  occur — 
if  Fanny  had  seen  more  of  Maria,  and  more  of  Mr.  Crispen 
and  even  more  of  Miss  Bowdler  and  the  Tingmouth  set,  her 
later  books,  had  they  been  less  refined,  might  have  been  as 
amusing  as  her  first. 


204 


Money  and  Love1 


STEEP  though  the  ascent  may  be,  the  reward  is  ours 
when  we  stand  on  the  top  of  the  hill;  stout  though  the 
biography  undoubtedly  is,  the  prospect  falls  into  shape 
directly  we  have  found  the  connecting  word.  The  diligent 
reader  of  memoirs  seeks  it  on  every  page — never  rests  until 
he  has  found  it.  Is  it  love  or  ambition,  commerce,  religion, 
or  sport?  It  may  be  none  of  these,  but  something  deep  sunk 
beneath  the  surface,  scattered  in  fragments,  disguised  behind 
frippery.  Whatever  it  be,  wherever  it  be,  once  found  there  is 
no  biography  without  its  form,  no  figure  without  its  force. 
Stumbling  and  blundering  in  the  first  volume  of  Mr.  Cole- 
ridge's life  of  Thomas  Coutts,2  we  laid  hands  at  length  upon 
two  words  which  between  them  licked  rather  a  portly  sub- 
ject into  shape,  doing  their  work,  as  might  be  expected  from 
their  opposite  natures,  first  this  side,  then  that,  until  what 
with  a  blow  here  and  a  blow  there  poor  Thomas  Coutts 
was  almost  buffeted  to  death.  Yet  the  friction  kept  him 
alive;  he  lived,  in  an  emaciated  condition,  to  the  age  of  eighty- 
six.  And  of  the  two  words  one  is  money  and  the  other  is  love. 
Love  in  the  first  place  had  it  all  its  own  way.  He  married 
his  brother's  servant,  Susannah  Starkie,  a  woman  older  than 
himself.  If  he  had  been  a  poor  man  the  marriage  would  have 
been  thought  sensible  enough  and  the  wife,  one  may  be  sure, 
would  have  come  in  for  a  word  of  praise  from  the  bio- 
graphers. But  as  he  was  always  a  rich  man,  and  became 
eventually  the  richest  man  in  the  whole  of  England,  it  was 
incumbent  on  Thomas  Coutts  to  prove  that  the  Starkies, 
though  now  declined,  were  descended  from  the  ancient 
family  of  the  Starkies  of  Leigh  and  Pennington,  and  it  is 
inevitable  that  we  should  inquire  whether  Mrs.  Coutts  broke 

1    The  Athenaeum,  March  12,  1920. 
2    The  Life  of  Thomas  Coutts,  Banker,  by  Ernest  Hartley  Coleridge. 

205 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

her  heart  and  lost  her  wits  '  beneath  the  burden  of  an  honour 
to  which  she  was  not  born'.  There  is  no  doubt  that  she  lost 
her  wits.  Her  heart,  one  must  suppose,  since  no  sound  of 
its  breakage  has  escaped,  was  smothered  to  death.  She  is 
scarcely  mentioned.  Perhaps  she  dropped  her  aitches.  Per- 
haps it  was  as  much  as  she  could  do  to  stand  upright  at  the 
top  of  the  staircase  in  Stratton  Street  and  shake  hands  with 
the  Royal  Dukes  without  displaying  her  origin.  She  con- 
trived never  to  give  offence  and  never  to  attract  attention; 
and,  from  a  housemaid,  what  more  could  be  expected?  Save 
for  one  sinister  gleam  when  she  speaks  a  whole  sentence  in 
her  proper  person,  it  is  all  dark  and  dim  and  decorous.  She 
had  her  children,  it  is  true;  of  whom  three  daughters  sur- 
vived. But  the  children  were  heiresses,  and  must  be  sent  to 
fashionable  schools,  where  Mr.  Coutts,  more  ambitious  for 
them  than  for  himself,  hinted  his  wish  that  they  should  make 
friends  with  the  daughters  of  Lord  George  Sutton,  'as  I 
should  like  them  to  be  acquainted  with  honest  people'.  They 
had  a  French  Countess  of  the  old  nobility  for  their  governess. 
From  their  birth  onwards  they  were  swathed  and  swaddled 
in  money. 

In  his  office  in  the  Strand,  year  in,  year  out,  Thomas 
Coutts  made  his  fortune  by  methods  which  will  be  plain 
enough  to  some  readers  and  must  remain  a  matter  of  mys- 
tery to  others.  He  was  a  hard-headed  man  of  business;  he 
was  indefatigable;  he  'knew  how  to  be  complaisant  and  how 
and  when  to  assert  his  independence';  he  was  judicious  in 
the  floating  of  Government  loans;  and  he  lived  within  his 
means.  We  may  accept  Mr.  Coleridge's  summary  of  his 
business  career,  and  take  his  word  for  it  that  the  rolling  up 
of  money  went  forward  uneventfully  enough.  To  the  out- 
sider there  is  a  certain  grimness  in  the  spectacle.  Who  is 
master  and  who  is  slave?  The  two  seem  mixed  in  bitter 
conflict  of  some  sort — such  groans  escape  him  now  and  then, 
and  the  lean,  wire-drawn  face,  with  the  tight-closed  lips  and 
the  anxious  eyes,  wears  such  an  expression  of  nervous  appre- 
hension. Once,  when  he  was  driving  with  his  old  friend 
Colonel  Crawfurd,  he  sat  silent  hour  after  hour,  and  the 

206 


MONEY    AND     LOVE 

Colonel,  reaching  home,  wrote  in  a  fury  to  demand  an 
explanation  of  'this  silent  contempt',  which  in  another 
would  have  demanded  sword  or  pistol. '  It  is  too,  too  foolish', 
exclaimed  poor  Coutts;  the  truth  was  merely  that  'my 
spirit's  gone,  and  my  mind  worn  and  harras'd',  and  'I  am 
now  rather  an  object  of  pity  than  resentment'. 

But  whatever  secret  anguish  compelled  the  richest  man  in 
England  to  drive  hour  after  hour  in  silence,  there  were  also 
amenities  and  privileges  attached  to  his  state  which  light- 
ened the  office  gloom  and  tinged  the  ledgers  with  radiance. 
The  reader  becomes  aware  of  a  curious  note  in  the  tone  in 
which  his  correspondents  address  him.  There  is  an  intimate, 
agonized  strain  in  all  their  voices.  His  correspondents  were 
some  of  the  greatest  people  in  the  land;  yet  they  wrote 
generally  with  their  own  hands,  and  often  added  the  injunc- 
tion: 'Burn  this  Letter  the  moment  it  is  read'  .  .  .  'Name  it 
not  to  my  Lord',  this  particular  document  continues,  'or  to 
any  creature  on  earth'.  For  royal  as  they  were,  beautiful, 
highly  gifted,  they  were  all  in  straits  for  money;  all  came 
to  Thomas  Coutts;  all  approached  him  as  suppliants  and 
sinners  beseeching  his  help  and  confessing  their  follies  as  if 
he  were  something  between  doctor  and  priest.  He  hard  from 
Lady  Chatham  the  story  of  her  distress  when  the  payment 
of  Chatham's  pension  was  delayed;  he  bestowed  £10,000 
upon  Charles  James  Fox,  and  earned  his  effusive  gratitude; 
the  Royal  Dukes  laid  their  said  circumstances  before  him; 
Georgiana,  Duchess  of  Devonshire,  confessed  her  gambling 
losses,  called  him  her  dear  friend  and  died  in  his  debt. 
Lady  Hester  Stanhope  thundered  and  growled  melodiously 
enough  from  the  top  of  Mount  Lebanon.  Naturally,  then, 
Thomas  Coutts  had  only  to  say  what  he  wanted,  and  some 
very  powerful  people  bestirred  themselves  to  get  it  for  him. 
He  wanted  introductions  for  his  daughters  among  the 
French  nobility;  he  wanted  George  the  Fourth  to  bank  with 
him;  he  wanted  the  King's  leave  to  drive  his  carriage 
through  St.  James's  Park.  But  he  wanted  some  things  that 
not  even  the  Duchess  of  Devonshire  could  procure.  He 
wanted  health;  he  wanted  a  son-in-law. 

207 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

There  was,  Mr.  Coleridge  says,  'a  singular  dearth  of 
suitors  for  his  daughters  and  his  ducats'.  Was  it  that  Mrs. 
Coutts  had  in  her  housemaid  days  thrown  soapsuds  over 
Lord  Dundonald?  Or  was  it  that  the  presence  of  madness 
in  the  Coutts  family  showed  itself  unmistakably  in  the  fre- 
quent '  nervous  complaints '  of  the  three  sisters?  At  any  rate, 
Sophia,  the  youngest,  was  nineteen  when  she  became  en- 
gaged to  Francis  Burdett;  and  heiresses  presumably  should 
be  wearing  their  coronets  years  before  that.  Then  her  two 
elder  sisters  pledged  their  affections  suitably  enough.  But 
love  always  came  among  the  Couttses  wearing  the  mask  of 
tragedy  or  comedy,  or  both  together  in  grotesque  combina- 
tion. The  two  young  men,  thus  singled  out,  against  all  advice 
and  entreaty  rushed  the  Falls  of  Schaff  hausen  in  an  open 
punt.  Both  were  drowned.  Two  years  later  Susan  recovered 
sufficiently  to  marry  Lord  Guilford,  and  after  mourning  for 
seven  years  Fanny  accepted  Lord  Bute;  but  Lord  Bute  was 
a  widower  of  fifty-six  with  nine  children,  and  Lord  Guilford 
fell  from  his  horse  '  when  in  the  act  of  presenting  a  basket  of 
fruit  to  Miss  Coutts',  and  so  injured  his  spine  that  he  lan- 
guished in  bodily  suffering  for  years  before,  prematurely,  he 
died. 

But  from  all  those  impressions  and  turns  of  phrase  which, 
more  than  any  statement  of  facts,  shape  life  in  biographies 
as  they  do  in  reality,  we  are  convinced  that  Thomas  Coutts 
loved  his  daughters  intensely  and  sincerely,  pitying  their 
sufferings,  devising  pleasures  and  comforts  for  them,  and 
sometimes,  perhaps,  wishing  to  be  assured  that  when  all  was 
said  and  done  they  were  happy,  which,  upon  the  same  evi- 
dence, it  is  easy  to  guess  that  they  were  not.  Even  in  these 
days  Sir  Francis  Burdett  caused  his  father-in-law  some 
anxiety.    The  following  extract  hints  the  reason  of  it: 

Going  to  Piccadilly  yesterday  at  two  o'clock,  I  met  Mr. 
Burdett.  ...  I  asked  him  where  he  was  going  ...  I  asked 
him  if  he  had  been  under  any  engagement  to  Mr.  White- 
foord,  upon  which,  to  do  him  justice,  he  blushed — and, 
with  great  signs  of  astonishment,  confessed  that  he  had 
entirely  forgot  it,  though  he  had  particularly  remembered 

208 


MONEY    AND     LOVE 

it  the  day  before  .  .  .  To  us,  exact  people,  these  things  seem 
strange. 

Probably  Mr.  Coutts  was  not  altogether  surprised  to  find 
that  a  man  who  was  capable  of  forgetting  an  enagement 
could  defy  the  House  of  Commons,  stand  a  siege  in  his 
house,  be  taken  forth  by  Life  Guards  through  a  crowd 
shouting  'Burdett  for  ever!'  and  suffer  imprisonment  in  the 
Tower.  Later,  Coutts  had  to  insist  that  his  son-in-law  should 
leave  his  house;  but  on  that  occasion  our  sympathies  are 
with  the  banker.  Like  most  people,  Sir  Francis  lost  his 
temper,  his  manners,  his  humanity,  and  everything  decent 
about  him  when  he  was  in  danger  of  losing  a  legacy.  But 
for  the  present  the  legacies  were  secure,  and  the  surface  of 
life  was  splendid  and  serene.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Coutts  lived  in 
the  great  house  in  Stratton  Street;  they  travelled  from  one 
fine  country  seat  to  another,  the  guests  of  a  Duke  here,  of 
an  Earl  there;  their  wealth  increased  and  increased,  and 
Thomas  Coutts  was  consulted  upon  delicate  matters  by 
Prime  Ministers  and  Kings.  He  acted  as  ambassador  be- 
tween the  House  of  Hanover  and  the  House  of  Stuart — 
almost  equally  to  his  delight,  he  transmitted  winter  petti- 
coats from  Paris  to  Devonshire  House. 

But  the  splendid  surface  had  deep  cracks  in  it,  and  when 
William  the  Fourth  dined  with  the  Couttses,  Mrs.  Coutts — 
so  he  declared — would  always  whisper  to  him  on  the  way 
downstairs,  '  Sir,  are  you  not  George  the  Third's  father? ' 
'I  always  answered  in  the  affirmative,'  said  the  King  .  .  . 
'there's  no  use  contradicting  women,  young  or  old,  eh?' 
She  was  losing  her  wits.  For  the  last  ten  years  of  her  life 
she  was  out  of  her  mind.  But  old  Coutts  would  have  her  lead 
the  King  down  to  dinner,  and  would  tend  her  faithfully 
himself  when  doctors  and  daughters  besought  him  to  put 
her  under  control.  He  was  a  devoted  husband. 

At  the  same  time  he  was  a  devoted  lover.  During  the  ten 
years  that  Mrs.  Coutts  was  going  from  bad  to  worse  and 
being  tenderly  cared  for  by  her  husband,  he  was  lavishing 
horses,  carriages,  villas,  sums  in  the  'Long  Annuities',  upon 
a  young  actress  in  Little  Russell  Street.  The  paradox  has 

209 


GRANITE    AND     RAINBOW 

disturbed  his  biographers.  Leaving  to  others  the  task  of 
determining  how  far  the  relation  between  the  old  banker 
and  the  young  woman  was  immoral,  we  must  admit  that  we 
like  him  all  the  better  for  it;  more,  it  seems  to  prove  that  he 
loved  his  wife.  For  the  first  time  he  hears  the  birds  at  dawn 
and  notices  the  spring  leaves.  Like  his  Harriot,  birds  and 
leaves  seem  to  him  innocent  and  fresh. 

You  who  can  look  to  Heaven  with  so  much  pleasure 
and  so  pure  a  heart  must  have  great  pleasure  in  viewing 
such  beautiful  skies  .  .  .  eat  light  nourishing  food — mutton 
roast  and  broiled  is  the  best — porter  is  not  good  for  you 
...  I  kiss  the  paper  you  are  to  look  upon  and  beg  you  to 
kiss  it  just  here.  Your  dear  lips  will  then  have  touched 
what  mine  touch  just  now.  .  .  .  The  estate  of  Otham,  you 
see,  I  have  enquired  about.  Your  3  p.  ct.  Consol  and 
Long  Annuity.  .  .  . 

So  it  goes  on  from  birds  to  flannel  night-caps,  from  eternal 
devotion  to  profitable  investments;  but  the  strain  that  links 
together  all  these  diverse  notes  is  his  recurring  and  constant 
adoration  for  Harriot's  '  pure,  innocent,  honest,  kind,  affec- 
tionate heart'.  It  was  a  terrible  blow  to  his  daughters  and 
sons-in-law  to  find  that  at  his  age  he  was  capable  of  enter- 
taining such  illusions.  When  it  came  out  that,  four  days 
after  Mrs.  Coutts  was  buried,  the  old  gentleman  of  seventy- 
nine  had  hurried  off  to  St.  Pancras  Church  and  married 
himself  (illegally,  as  it  turned  out,  by  one  of  those  misadven- 
tures which  always  beset  the  Coutts  family  when  they  were 
in  love)  to  an  actress  of  no  birth  and  robust  physique,  the 
lamentations  that  rent  the  family  in  twain  were  bitter  in  the 
extreme.  What  would  become  of  his  money?  As  they  could 
not  ask  this  openly,  they  took  the  more  roundabout  way 
of  'imputing  to  the  servants'  at  Stratton  Street  that  Mrs. 
Coutts  was  poisoning  her  husband  and  was  in  the  habit  of 
receiving  men  in  her  bedroom  when  half-undressed.  Coutts 
replied  to  his  daughters  and  his  sons-in-law  in  bitter,  agitated 
letters  which  make  painful,  though  spirited,  reading  after  a 
hundred  years.  How  they  tortured  him!  How  they  grudged 
him  his  happiness!  How  grateful  he  would  have  been  for  a 

210 


MONEY    AND     LOVE 

word  of  sympathy!  Still,  he  had  his  Harriot,  and  though  she 
was  only  gone  into  the  next  room,  he  must  write  her  a  letter 
to  say  how  he  loves  her  and  trusts  her  and  begs  her  not 
to  mind  the  spiteful  things  that  his  family  say  about  her. 
'Your  constant,  happy,  and  most  affectionate  husband'  he 
signs  himself,  and  she  invokes  'My  beloved  Tom!'  Indeed, 
Harriot  deserved  every  penny  she  got,  and  we  rejoice  to 
think  that  she  got  them  all.  She  was  a  generous  woman.  She 
was  bountiful  to  her  stepdaughters;  she  was  always  burying 
broken-down  actors  in  luxury,  and  putting  up  marble 
tablets  to  their  memories;  and  she  married  a  Duke.  But 
every  year  of  her  life  she  drove  down  to  Little  Russell  Street, 
got  out  of  her  carriage,  dismissed  her  servants,  and  walked 
along  the  dirty  lane  to  have  a  look  at  the  house  where  she 
had  begun  life  as  'a  poor  little  player  child'.  And  once,  long 
after  Tom  was  dead,  she  dreamed  of  Tom,  and  noted  on  the 
flyleaf  of  her  Prayer  Book  how  he  had  come  to  her  looking 
'well,  tranquil,  and  divine.  He  anxiously  desired  me  to 
change  my  shoes',  which  was,  no  doubt,  true  to  the  life;  but 
in  the  dream  it  was  'for  fear  of  taking  cold,  as  I  had  walked 
through  waters  to  him',  which  somehow  touches  us  as  if 
Tom  and  Harriot  had  walked  through  bitter  waters  to 
rescue  their  little  fragment  of  love  from  all  that  money. 


211 


The  Dream1 

THIS  is  a  depressing  book.2  It  leaves  one  with  a  feeling 
not  of  humiliation,  that  is  too  strong  a  word,  nor  of 
disgust,  that  is  too  strong  also.  It  makes  us  feel — it  is  to 
Mr.  Bullock's  credit  as  a  biographer — that  we  have  been 
watching  a  stout  white  dog  performing  tricks  in  front  of  an 
audience  which  eggs  it  on,  but  at  the  same  time  jeers.  There  is 
nothing  in  the  life  and  death  of  a  best-seller  that  need  cause 
us  this  queasiness.  The  lives  of  those  glorious  geese  Florence 
Barclay  and  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  can  be  read  without  a 
blush  for  them  or  for  ourselves.  They  were  performers  too — 
conjurors  who  tumbled  bank  notes,  billiard  balls,  fluttering 
pigeons  out  of  very  seedy  hats.  But  they  lived,  and  they  lived 
with  such  gusto  that  no  one  can  fail  to  share  it.  With  Marie 
Corelli  it  was  different. 

Her  life  began  with  a  trick  and  rather  a  shady  trick.  The 
editor  of  the  Illustrated  London  News,  a  married  man,  'wan- 
dering round  Stratford-on-Avon  church'  fell  in  love  with  a 
woman.  That  bald  statement  must  be  draped.  Dr.  Mackay 
committed  an  immoral  act  with  a  female  who  was  not  of 
his  own  social  standing.  'This  unwelcome  flowering  of  his 
lighter  moments',  as  Mr.  Bullock  calls  it — Corelliism  is 
catching — was  a  child.  But  she  was  not  called  Marie  and 
she  was  not  called  Corelli.  Those  were  names  that  she 
invented  later  to  drape  the  fact.  Most  of  her  childhood  was 
spent  draping  facts  in  the  'Dream  Hole',  a  mossy  retreat  in 
a  dell  at  Box  Hill.  Sometimes  George  Meredith  appeared 
for  a  moment  among  the  tendrils.  But  she  never  saw  him. 
Wrapped  in  what  she  called  later  'the  flitting  phantasma- 
goria of  the  universal  dream'  she  saw  only  one  person — 
herself.  And  that  self,  sometimes  called  Thelma,  sometimes 

1    The  Listener,  February  15,  1940. 
2  Marie  Corelli:  The  Life  &  Death  of  a  Best-Seller,  by  George  Bullock. 

212 


THE    DREAM 

Mavis  Clare,  draped  in  white  satin,  hung  with  pure  lilies, 
and  exhibited  twice  a  year  in  stout  volumes  for  which  the 
public  paid  her  ten  thousand  pounds  apiece,  is  as  damning 
an  indictment  of  Victorian  taste  in  one  way  as  the  Albert 
Memorial  is  in  another.  Of  those  two  excrescences,  perhaps 
that  which  we  call  Marie  Corelli  is  the  more  painful.  The 
Albert  Memorial  is  empty;  but  within  the  other  erection 
was  a  live  human  being.  It  was  not  her  fault;  society  blew 
that  golden  bubble,  as  Miss  Corelli  herself  might  have 
written,  from  the  black  seed  of  shame.  She  was  ashamed  of 
her  mother.  She  was  ashamed  of  her  birth.  She  was  ashamed 
of  her  face,  of  her  accent,  of  her  poverty.  Most  girls,  as 
empty-headed  and  commonplace  as  she  was,  would  have 
shared  her  shame,  but  they  would  have  hidden  it — under 
the  table-cloth,  behind  the  chiffonier.  But  nature  had  en- 
dowed her  with  a  prodigious  power  of  making  public  con- 
fession of  this  small  ignoble  vice.  Instead  of  hiding  herself 
she  exposed  herself.  From  her  earliest  days  she  had  a  rage 
for  publicity.  'I'll  be  "somebody"',  she  told  her  governess. 
'I'll  be  as  unlike  anybody  else  as  I  can!'  'That  would 
hardly  be  wise,'  said  Miss  Knox  placidly.  'You  would  then 
be  called  eccentric'  But  Miss  Knox  need  not  have  been 
afraid.  Marie  Corelli  did  not  wish  to  be  unlike  anybody 
else;  she  wanted  to  be  as  like  everybody  else  in  general,  and 
the  British  aristocracy  in  particular,  as  it  was  possible  to  be. 
But  to  attain  that  object  she  had  only  one  weapon — the 
dream.  Dreams,  apparently,  if  made  of  the  right  material, 
can  be  astonishingly  effective.  She  dreamt  so  hard,  she 
dreamt  so  efficiently,  that  with  two  exceptions  all  her  dreams 
came  true.  Not  even  Marie  Corelli  could  dream  her  shifty 
half-brother  into  the  greatest  of  English  poets,  though  she 
worked  hard  to  'get  him  made  Poet  Laureate',  or  transform 
her  very  dubious  father  into  an  eminent  Victorian  man  of 
letters.  All  that  she  could  do  for  Dr.  Mackay  was  to  engage 
the  Caledonian  pipers  to  play  at  his  funeral  and  to  postpone 
that  function  from  a  foggy  day  to  a  fine  one  in  order  that  his 
last  appearance  might  be  given  full  publicity.  Otherwise  all 
her  dreams  materialized.  Ponies,  motor-cars,  dresses,  houses 

213 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

furnished  'like  the  tea  lounge  at  the  Earl's  Court  Exhibi- 
tion', gondolas,  expensively-bound  editions  of  Shakespeare 
— all  were  hers.  Cheques  accumulated.  Invitations  showered. 
The  Prince  of  Wales  held  her  hand  in  his.  '  Out  of  small 
things  what  wonders  rise',  he  murmured.  Gladstone  called 
on  her  and  stayed  for  two  hours.  '  Ardath\  he  is  reported  to 
have  said,  'is  a  magnificent  conception.'  On  Easter  Sunday 
the  Dean  of  Westminster  quoted  Barabbas  from  the  pulpit. 
No  words,  the  Dean  said,  could  be  more  beautiful.  Rostand 
translated  her  novels.  The  whole  audience  at  Stratford-on- 
Avon  rose  to  its  feet  when  she  came  into  the  theatre. 

All  her  dreams  came  true.  But  it  was  the  dream  that 
killed  her.  For  inside  that  ever-thickening  carapace  of  solid 
dream  the  commonplace  vigorous  little  woman  gradually 
ceased  to  live.  She  became  harder,  duller,  more  prudish, 
more  conventional;  and  at  the  same  time  more  envious  and 
more  uneasy.  The  only  remedy  that  revived  her  was  pub- 
licity. And  like  other  drug-takers  she  could  only  live  by 
increasing  the  dose.  Her  tricks  became  more  and  more 
extravagant.  On  May  Day  she  drove  through  the  streets 
behind  ponies  wreathed  in  flowers;  she  floated  down  the 
Avon  in  a  gondola  called  The  Dream  with  a  real  gondolier 
in  a  scarlet  sash.  The  press  resounded  with  her  lawsuits,  her 
angry  letters,  her  speeches.  And  then  even  the  Press  turned 
nasty.  They  omitted  to  say  that  she  had  been  present  at  the 
Braemar  gathering.  They  gave  full  publicity  to  the  fact  that 
she  had  been  caught  hoarding  sugar. 

For  her  there  is  some  excuse.  But  how  are  we  to  excuse  the 
audience  that  applauded  the  exhibition.  Queen  Victoria 
and  Mr.  Gladstone  can  be  excepted.  The  taste  of  the  exalted 
is  apt  to  become  dropsical.  And  there  is  excuse  for  'the 
million',  as  Marie  Corelli  called  them — if  her  books  saved 
one  working-man  from  suicide,  or  allowed  a  dressmaker's 
drudge  here  and  there  to  dream  that  she,  too,  was  Thelma 
or  Mavis  Clare,  there  were  not  films  then  to  sustain  them 
with  plush  and  glow  and  rapture  after  the  day's  work.  But 
what  are  we  to  say  of  Oscar  Wilde?  His  compliments  may 
have  been  ambiguous;  but  he  paid  them,  and  he  printed 

214 


THE     DREAM 

her  stories.  And  what  are  we  to  say  of  the  great  ladies  of  her 
adored  aristocracy?  'She  is  a  common  little  thing',  one  of 
them  remarked.  But  no  lunch  or  dinner  party  was  complete 
without  her.  And  what  are  we  to  say  of  Mr.  Arthur  Severn? 
'Pendennis'  she  called  him.  He  accepted  her  hospitality, 
tolerated  that  effusion  which  she  was  pleased  to  call  her 
passion,  and  then  made  fun  of  her  accent.  'Ouwels',  she 
said  instead  of 'owls',  and  he  laughed  at  her.  And  what  are 
we  to  say  of  the  press  that  levelled  all  its  cameras  at  the 
stout  old  woman  who  was  ashamed  of  her  birth,  'got  busy' 
about  her  mother — was  her  name  Cody  or  was  it  Kirtland? 
— was  she  a  bricklayer's  daughter  or  an  Italian  countess? — 
who  had  borne  this  illegitimate  child? 

But  though  it  would  be  a  relief  to  end  in  a  burst  of  right- 
eous indignation,  the  worst  of  this  book  is  that  it  provokes 
no  such  glow,  but  only  the  queasiness  with  which  we  watch 
a  decked-up  dog  performing  rather  ordinary  tricks.  It  is  a 
relief  when  the  performance  is  over.  Only,  unfortunately, 
that  is  not  altogether  the  fact.  For,  still  at  Stratford-on-Avon, 
Mason  Croft  is  kept  precisely  as  it  was  when  Marie  Corelli 
lived  there.  There  is  the  silver  ink-pot  still  full  of  ink  as  she 
left  it;  the  hands  of  the  clock  still  point  to  7.15  as  they  did 
when  she  died;  all  her  manuscripts  are  carefully  preserved 
under  glass  cases;  and  the  'large,  empty  bed,  covered  with 
a  heavy  white  quilt,  which  is  more  awe-inspiring  than  a 
corpse,  as  a  scarcely  clothed  dancer  excites  more  than  does 
a  nude'  awaits  the  dreamer.  So  Stratford-on-Avon,  along 
with  other  relics,  preserves  a  lasting  monument  to  the  taste 
of  the  Victorian  Age. 


215 


The  Fleeting  Portrait 

i.   Waxworks  at  the  Abbey l 

NOBODY  but  a  very  great  man  could  have  worn  the 
Duke  of  Wellington's  top  hat.  It  is  as  tall  as  a  chimney, 
as  straight  as  a  ramrod,  as  black  as  a  rock.  One  could  have 
seen  it  a  mile  off  advancing  indomitably  down  the  street. 
It  must  have  been  to  this  emblem  of  incorruptible  dignity 
that  the  Duke  raised  his  two  fingers  when  passers-by  re- 
spectfully saluted  him.  One  is  almost  tempted  to  salute 
it  now. 

The  connexion  between  the  waxworks  in  the  Abbey  and 
the  Duke  of  Wellington's  top  hat  is  one  that  the  reader  will 
discover  if  he  goes  to  the  Abbey  when  the  waxworks  are 
shut.  The  waxworks  have  their  hours  of  audience  like  other 
potentates.  And  if  that  hour  is  four  and  it  is  now  a  trifle  past 
two,  one  may  spend  the  intervening  moments  profitably  in 
the  United  Services  Museum  in  Whitehall,  among  cannon 
and  torpedos  and  gun-carriages  and  helmets  and  spurs  and 
faded  uniforms  and  the  thousand  other  objects  which  piety 
and  curiosity  have  saved  from  time  and  treasured  and  num- 
bered and  stuck  in  glass  cases  forever.  When  the  time  comes 
to  go,  indeed,  there  is  not  as  much  contrast  as  one  would 
wish,  perhaps,  between  the  Museum  at  one  end  of  Whitehall 
and  the  Abbey  at  the  other.  Too  many  monuments  solicit 
attention  with  outstretched  hands;  too  many  placards  ex- 
plain this  and  forbid  that;  too  many  sightseers  shuffle  and 
stare  for  the  past  and  the  dead  and  the  mystic  nature  of  the 
place  to  have  full  sway.  Solitude  is  impossible.  Do  we  wish 
to  see  the  Chapels?  We  are  shepherded  in  flocks  by  gentle- 
men in  black  gowns  who  are  for  ever  locking  us  in  or  locking 
us  out;  round  whom  we  press  and  gape;  from  whom  drop 

1    The  New  Republic,  April  1 1 ,  1 928. 
2l6 


THE     FLEETING     PORTRAIT 

raucously  all  kinds  of  dry  unappetizing  facts;  how  much 
beauty  this  tomb  has;  how  much  age  that;  when  they  were 
destroyed;  by  whom  they  were  restored  and  what  the  cost 
was — until  everybody  longs  to  be  let  off  a  tomb  or  two  and 
is  thankful  when  the  lesson  hour  is  over.  However,  if  one  is 
very  wicked,  and  very  bored,  and  lags  a  little  behind;  if  the 
key  is  left  in  the  door  and  turns  quite  easily,  so  that  after  all 
it  is  an  open  question  whether  one  has  broken  one's  country's 
laws  or  not,  then  one  can  slip  aside,  run  up  a  little  dark  stair- 
case and  find  oneself  in  a  very  small  chamber  alone  with 
Queen  Elizabeth. 

The  Queen  dominates  the  room  as  she  once  dominated 
England.  Leaning  a  little  forward  so  that  she  seems  to 
beckon  you  to  come  to  her,  she  stands,  holding  her  sceptre 
in  one  hand,  her  orb  in  the  other.  It  is  a  drawn,  anguished 
figure,  with  the  pursed  look  of  someone  who  goes  in  per- 
petual dread  of  poison  or  of  trap;  yet  forever  braces  herself 
to  meet  the  terror  unflinchingly.  Her  eyes  are  wide  and 
vigilant;  her  nose  thin  as  the  beak  of  a  hawk;  her  lips  shut 
tight;  her  eyebrows  arched;  only  the  jowl  gives  the  fine 
drawn  face  its  massiveness.  The  orb  and  the  sceptre  are 
held  in  the  long  thin  hands  of  an  artist,  as  if  the  fingers 
thrilled  at  the  touch  of  them.  She  is  immensely  intellectual, 
suffering,  and  tyrannical.  She  will  not  allow  one  to  look 
elsewhere. 

Yet  in  fact  the  little  room  is  crowded.  There  are  many 
hands  here  holding  other  sceptres  and  orbs.  It  is  only  beside 
Queen  Elizabeth  that  the  rest  of  the  company  seems  insig- 
nificant. Flowing  in  velvet  they  fill  their  glass  cases,  as  they 
once  filled  their  thrones,  with  dignity.  William  and  Mary  are 
an  amiable  pair  of  monarchs;  bazaar-opening,  hospital- 
inspecting,  modern;  though  the  King,  unfortunately,  is  a 
little  short  in  the  legs.  Queen  Anne  fondles  her  orb  in  her 
lap  with  plump  womanly  hands  that  should  have  held  a 
baby  there.  It  is  only  by  accident  that  they  have  clapped  a 
great  crown  on  her  hair  and  told  her  to  rule  a  kingdom, 
when  she  would  so  much  rather  have  flirted  discreetly— she 
was  a  pretty  woman;  or  run  to  greet  her  husband  smiling — 

217 


GRANITE     AND     RAINBOW 

she  was  a  kindly  one.  Her  type  of  beauty  in  its  homeliness, 
its  domesticity,  comes  down  to  us  less  impaired  by  time  than 
the  grander  style.  The  Duchess  of  Richmond,  who  gave  her 
face  to  Britannia  on  the  coins,  is  out  of  fashion  now.  Only 
the  carriage  of  the  little  head  on  the  long  neck,  and  the 
simper  and  the  still  look  of  one  who  has  always  stood  still  to 
be  looked  at  assure  us  that  she  was  beautiful  once  and  had 
lovers  beyond  belief.  The  parrot  sitting  on  its  perch  in  the 
corner  of  the  case  seems  to  make  its  ironical  comment  on 
all  that.  Once  only  are  we  reminded  of  the  fact  that  these 
effigies  were  moulded  from  the  dead  and  that  they  were  laid 
upon  coffins  and  carried  through  the  streets.  The  young 
Duke  of  Buckingham  who  died  at  Rome  of  consumption  is 
the  only  one  of  them  who  has  resigned  himself  to  death.  He 
lies  very  still  with  the  ermine  on  his  shoulders  and  the 
coronet  on  his  brows,  but  his  eyes  are  shut;  his  nose  is  a  great 
peak  between  two  sunk  cheeks;  he  has  succumbed  to  death 
and  lies  steeped  in  its  calm.  His  aloofness  compares  strangely 
with  the  carnality  of  Charles  the  Second  round  the  corner. 
King  Charles  still  seems  quivering  with  the  passions  and 
the  greeds  of  life.  The  great  lips  are  still  pouting  and  water- 
ing and  asking  for  more.  The  eyes  are  pouched  and  creased 
with  all  the  long  nights  they  have  watched  out — the  torches, 
the  dancing,  and  the  women.  In  his  dirty  feathers  and  lace 
he  is  the  very  symbol  of  voluptuousness  and  dissipation,  and 
his  great  blue-veined  nose  seems  an  irreverence  on  the  part 
of  the  modeller,  as  if  to  set  the  crowd,  as  the  procession 
comes  by,  nudging  each  other  in  the  ribs  and  telling  merry 
stories  of  the  monarch. 

And  so  from  this  garish  bright  assembly  we  run  down- 
stairs again  into  the  Abbey,  and  enter  that  strange  muddle 
and  miscellany  of  objects  both  hallowed  and  ridiculous.  Yet 
now  the  impression  is  less  tumultuous  than  before.  Two 
presences  seem  to  control  its  incoherence,  as  sometimes  a 
chattering  group  of  people  is  ordered  and  quieted  by  the 
entry  of  someone  before  whom,  they  know  not  why,  they  fall 
silent.  One  is  Elizabeth,  beckoning;  the  other  is  an  old 
top-hat. 

218 


THE    FLEETING    PORTRAIT 

2.    The  Royal  Academy  ' 

'The  motor-cars  of  Empire — the  bodyguard  of  Europe — 
the  stainless  knight  of  Belgium ' — such  is  our  English  romance 
that  nine  out  often  of  those  passing  from  the  indiscriminate 
variety  of  Piccadilly  to  the  courtyard  of  Burlington  House 
do  homage  to  the  embattled  tyres  and  the  kingly  presence  of 
Albert  on  his  high-minded  charger  with  some  nonsense  of 
this  sort.  They  are,  of  course,  only  the  motor-cars  of  the 
rich  grouped  round  a  statue;  but  whether  the  quadrangle  in 
which  they  stand  radiates  back  the  significance  of  everything 
fourfold,  so  that  King  Albert  and  the  motor-cars  exude  the 
essence  of  kingliness  and  the  soul  of  vehicular  traffic,  or 
whether  the  crowd  is  the  cause  of  it,  or  the  ceremonious 
steps  leading  up,  the  swing-doors  admitting  and  the  flunkeys 
fawning,  it  is  true  that,  once  you  are  within  the  precincts, 
everything  appears  symbolic,  and  the  state  of  mind  in  which 
you  ascend  the  broad  stairs  to  the  picture  galleries  is  both 
heated  and  romantic. 

Whatever  visions  we  may  have  indulged,  we  find  our- 
selves on  entering  confronted  by  a  lady  in  full  evening  dress. 
She  stands  at  the  top  of  a  staircase,  one  hand  loosely  closed 
round  a  sheaf  of  lilies,  while  the  other  is  about  to  greet 
someone  of  distinction  who  advances  towards  her  up  the 
stairs.  Not  a  hair  is  out  of  place.  Her  lips  are  just  parted. 
She  is  about  to  say,  'How  nice  of  you  to  come!'  But  such  is 
the  skill  of  the  artist  that  one  does  not  willingly  cross  the 
range  of  her  cordial  and  yet  condescending  eye.  One  prefers 
to  look  at  her  obliquely.  She  said,  'How  nice  of  you  to 
come! '  so  often  and  so  graciously  while  I  stood  there  that  at 
last  my  eye  wandered  off  in  search  of  people  of  sufficient 
distinction  for  her  to  say  it  to.  There  was  no  difficulty  in 
finding  them.  Here  was  a  nobleman  in  a  kilt,  the  Duke  of 

R ;  here  a  young  officer  in  khaki,  and,  to  keep  him 

company,  the  head  and  shoulders  of  a  young  girl,  whose 

upturned  eyes  and  pouting  lips  appear  to  be  entreating  the 

1    The  Athenaeum,  August  22,  1919. 

219 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

sky  to  be  bluer,  roses  to  be  redder,  ices  to  be  sweeter,  and 
men  to  be  manlier  for  her  sake.  To  do  her  justice,  the  gallant 
youth  seemed  to  respond.  As  they  stepped  up  the  staircase  to 
the  lady  in  foaming  white  he  vowed  that  come  what  might — 
the  flag  of  England — sweet  chimes  of  home — a  woman's 
honour — an  Englishman's  word — only  a  scrap  of  paper — 
for  your  sake,  Alice — God  save  the  King — and  all  the  rest  of 
it.  The  range  of  her  vocabulary  was  more  limited.  She  kept 
her  gaze  upon  the  sky  or  the  ice  or  whatever  it  might  be 
with  a  simple  sincerity  which  was  enforced  by  a  single  row 
of  pearls  and  a  little  drapery  of  white  tulle  about  the  shoul- 
ders. '  How  nice  of  you  to  come! '  said  the  hostess  once  more. 
But  immediately  behind  them  stumped  the  Duke,  a  bluff 
nobleman,  'more  at  home  on  the  brae-side  than  among 
these  kickshaws  and  knick-knacks,  my  lady.  Splendid  sport. 
Twenty  antlers  and  Buck  Royal.  Clean  between  the  eyes, 
eh  what?  Out  all  day.  Never  know  when  I'm  done.  Cold 
bath,  hard  bed,  glass  of  whiskey.  A  mere  nothing.  Damned 
foreigners.  Post  of  duty.  The  Guard  dies,  but  never  sur- 
renders. The  ladies  of  our  family — Up,  Guards,  and  at 
them!  Gentlemen — '  and,  as  he  utters  the  last  words  in  a 
voice  choked  with  emotion,  the  entire  company  swing  round 
upon  their  heels,  displaying  only  a  hind  view  of  their  per- 
fectly fitting  mess-jackets,  since  there  are  some  sights  that 
it  is  not  good  for  man  to  look  upon. 

The  scene,  though  not  all  the  phrases,  comes  from  a  story 
by  Rudyard  Kipling.  But  scenes  from  Rudyard  Kipling 
must  take  place  with  astonishing  frequency  at  these  parties 
in  order  that  the  English  maidens  and  gallant  officers  may 
have  occasion  to  insist  upon  their  chastity  on  the  one  hand 
and  protect  it  on  the  other,  without  which,  so  far  as  one  can 
see,  there  would  be  no  reason  for  their  existence.  Therefore 
it  was  natural  to  look  about  me,  a  little  shyly,  for  the  sinister 
person  of  the  seducer.  There  is,  I  can  truthfully  say,  no  such 
cur  in  the  whole  of  the  Royal  Academy;  and  it  was  only 
when  I  had  gone  through  the  rooms  twice  and  was  about  to 
inform  the  maiden  that  her  apprehensions,  though  highly 
creditable,   were  in  no  way  necessary   that  my  eye  was 

220 


THE    FLEETING    PORTRAIT 

caught  by  the  white  underside  of  an  excessively  fine  fish. 
'The  Duke  caught  that!'  I  exclaimed,  being  still  within  the 
radius  of  the  ducal  glory.  But  I  was  wrong.  Though  fine 
enough,  the  fish,  as  a  second  glance  put  it  beyond  a  doubt, 
was  not  ducal;  its  triangular  shape,  let  alone  the  fact  that  a 
small  urchin  in  corduroys  held  it  suspended  by  the  tail,  was 
enough  to  start  me  in  the  right  direction.  Ah,  yes — the 
harvest  of  the  sea,  toilers  of  the  deep,  a  fisherman's  home, 
nature's  bounty — such  phrases  formed  themselves  with 
alarming  rapidity — but  to  descend  to  details.  The  picture, 
No.  306,  represents  a  young  woman  holding  a  baby  on  her 
knee.  The  child  is  playing  with  the  rough  model  of  a  ship; 
the  large  fish  is  being  dangled  before  his  eyes  by  a  brother  a 
year  or  two  older  in  a  pair  of  corduroys  which  have  been  cut 
down  from  those  worn  by  the  fisherman  engaged  in  cleaning 
cod  on  the  edge  of  the  waves.  Judging  from  the  superb 
rosiness,  fatness,  and  blueness  of  every  object  depicted,  even 
the  sea  itself  wearing  the  look  of  a  prize  animal  tricked  out 
for  a  fair,  it  seemed  certain  that  the  artist  intended  a  com- 
pliment in  a  general  way  to  the  island  race.  But  something 
in  the  woman's  eye  arrested  me.  A  veil  of  white  dimmed  the 
straightforward  lustre.  It  is  thus  that  painters  represent  the 
tears  that  do  not  fall.  But  what,  we  asked,  had  this  great 
hulk  of  a  matron  surrounded  by  fish,  any  one  of  which  was 
worth  eighteenpence  the  pound,  to  cry  for?  Look  at  the 
little  boy's  breeches.  They  are  not,  if  you  look  closely,  of  the 
same  pattern  as  the  fisherman's.  Once  that  fact  is  grasped, 
the  story  reels  itself  out  like  a  line  with  a  salmon  on  the  end 
of  it.  Don't  the  waves  break  with  a  sound  of  mockery  on  the 
beach?  Don't  her  eyes  cloud  with  memories  at  the  sight  of 
a  toy  boat?  It  is  not  always  summer.  The  sea  has  another 
voice  than  this;  and,  since  her  husband  will  never  want  his 
breeches  any  more — but  the  story  when  written  out  is  pain- 
ful, and  rather  obvious  into  the  bargain. 

The  point  of  a  good  Academy  picture  is  that  you  can 
search  the  canvas  for  ten  minutes  or  so  and  still  be  doubtful 
whether  you  have  extracted  the  whole  meaning.  There  is, 
for  example,  No.  248,  'Cocaine'.  A  young  man  in  evening 

221 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

dress  lies,  drugged,  with  his  head  upon  the  pink  satin  of  a 
woman's  knee.  The  ornamental  clock  assures  us  that  it  is 
exactly  eleven  minutes  to  five.  The  burning  lamp  proves 
that  it  is  dawn.  He,  then,  has  come  home  to  find  her  waiting? 
She  has  interrupted  his  debauch?  For  my  part,  I  prefer  to 
imagine  what  in  painters'  language  (a  tongue  well  worth 
separate  study)  would  be  called  'a  dreary  vigil'.  There  she 
has  sat  since  eight-thirty,  alone,  in  pink  satin.  Once  she  rose 
and  pressed  the  photograph  in  the  silver  frame  to  her  lips. 
She  might  have  married  that  man  (unless  it  is  her  father, 
of  which  one  cannot  be  sure) .  She  was  a  thoughtless  girl, 
and  he  left  her  to  meet  his  death  on  the  field  of  battle. 
Through  her  tears  she  gazes  at  the  next  photograph — pre- 
sumably that  of  a  baby  (again  the  painter  has  been  content 
with  a  suggestion).  As  she  looks  a  hand  fumbles  at  the  door. 
'Thank  God!'  she  cries  as  her  husband  staggers  in  and  falls 
helpless  across  her  knees,  'thank  God  our  Teddy  died!' 
So  there  she  sits,  staring  disillusionment  in  the  eyes,  and 
whether  she  gives  way  to  temptation,  or  breathes  a  vow  to 
the  photographs,  or  gets  him  to  bed  before  the  maid  comes 
down,  or  sits  there  for  ever,  must  be  left  to  the  imagination 
of  the  onlooker. 

But  the  queer  thing  is  that  one  wants  to  be  her.  For  a 
moment  one  pretends  that  one  sits  alone,  disillusioned,  in 
pink  satin.  And  then  people  in  the  little  group  of  gazers 
begin  to  boast  that  they  have  known  sadder  cases  them- 
selves. Friends  of  theirs  took  cocaine.  '  I  myself  as  a  boy  for 
a  joke — '  'No,  George — but  how  fearfully  rash!'  Everyone 
wished  to  cap  that  story  with  a  better,  save  for  one  lady 
who,  from  her  expression,  was  acting  the  part  of  consoler, 
had  got  the  poor  thing  to  bed,  undressed  her,  soothed  her, 
and  even  spoken  with  considerable  sharpness  to  that  un- 
worthy brute,  unfit  to  be  a  husband,  before  she  moved  on  in 
a  pleasant  glow  of  self-satisfaction.  Every  picture  before 
which  one  of  these  little  groups  had  gathered  seemed  to 
radiate  the  strange  power  to  make  the  beholder  more  heroic 
and  more  romantic;  memories  of  childhood,  visions  of  possi- 
bilities, illusions  of  all  kinds  poured  down  upon  us  from  the 

222 


THE    FLEETING     PORTRAIT 

walls.  In  a  cooler  mood  one  might  accuse  the  painters  of 
some  exaggeration.  There  must  be  well  over  ten  thousand 
delphiniums  in  the  Royal  Academy,  and  not  one  is  other 
than  a  perfect  specimen.  The  condition  of  the  turf  is  beyond 
praise.  The  sun  is  exquisitely  adapted  to  the  needs  of  the 
sundials.  The  yew  hedges  are  irreproachable;  the  manor 
house  a  miracle  of  timeworn  dignity;  and  as  for  the  old  man 
with  a  scythe,  the  girl  at  the  well,  the  village  donkey,  the 
widow  lady,  the  gipsies'  caravan,  the  boy  with  a  rod,  each 
is  not  only  the  saddest,  sweetest,  quaintest,  most  picturesque, 
tenderest,  jolliest  of  its  kind,  but  has  a  symbolical  meaning 
much  to  the  credit  of  England.  The  geese  are  English  geese, 
and  even  the  polar  bears,  though  they  have  not  that  advan- 
tage, seem,  such  is  the  persuasion  of  the  atmosphere,  to  be 
turning  to  carriage  rugs  as  we  look  at  them. 

It  is  indeed  a  very  powerful  atmosphere;  so  charged  with 
manliness  and  womanliness,  pathos  and  purity,  sunsets  and 
Union  Jacks,  that  the  shabbiest  and  most  suburban  catch  a 
reflection  of  the  rosy  glow.  'This  is  England!  these  are  the 
English!'  one  might  exclaim  if  a  foreigner  were  at  hand. 
But  one  need  not  say  that  to  one's  compatriots.  They  are, 
perhaps,  not  quite  up  to  the  level  of  the  pictures.  Some  are 
meagre;  others  obese;  many  have  put  on  what  is  too  ob- 
viously the  only  complete  outfit  that  they  possess.  But  the 
legend  on  the  catalogue  explains  any  such  discrepancy  in  a 
convincing  manner.  'To  give  unto  them  beauty  for  ashes. 
Isaiah  lxi.  3' — that  is  the  office  of  this  exhibition.  Our  ashes 
will  be  transformed  if  only  we  expose  them  openly  enough 
to  the  benignant  influence  of  the  canvas.  So  we  look  again 
at  the  Lord  Chancellor  and  Mr.  Balfour,  at  the  Lady  B.,  at 
the  Duke  of  R.,  at  Mr.  Ennever  of  the  Pelman  Institute,  at 
officers  of  all  descriptions,  architects,  surgeons,  peers,  den- 
tists, doctors,  lawyers,  archbishops,  roses,  sundials,  battle- 
fields, fish,  and  Skye  terriers.  From  wall  to  wall,  glowing 
with  colour,  glistening  with  oil,  framed  in  gilt,  and  pro- 
tected by  glass,  they  ogle  and  elevate,  inspire  and  command. 
But  they  overdo  it.  One  is  not  altogether  such  a  bundle  of 
ashes  as  they  suppose,  or  sometimes  the  magic  fails  to  work. 

223 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

A  large  picture  by  Mr.  Sargent  called  'Gassed'  at  last 
pricked  some  nerve  of  protest,  or  perhaps  of  humanity.  In 
order  to  emphasize  his  point  that  the  soldiers  wearing 
bandages  round  their  eyes  cannot  see,  and  therefore  claim 
our  compassion,  he  makes  one  of  them  raise  his  leg  to  the 
level  of  his  elbow  in  order  to  mount  a  step  an  inch  or  two 
above  the  ground.  This  little  piece  of  over-emphasis  was  the 
final  scratch  of  the  surgeon's  knife  which  is  said  to  hurt  more 
than  the  whole  operation.  After  all,  one  had  been  jabbed 
and  stabbed,  slashed  and  sliced  for  close  on  two  hours.  The 
lady  began  it,  the  Duke  continued  it;  little  children  had 
wrung  tears;  great  men  extorted  veneration.  From  first  to 
last  each  canvas  had  rubbed  in  some  emotion,  and  what  the 
paint  failed  to  say  the  catalogue  had  enforced  in  words.  But 
Mr.  Sargent  was  the  last  straw.  Suddenly  the  great  rooms 
rang  like  a  parrot-house  with  the  intolerable  vociferations 
of  gaudy  and  brainless  birds.  How  they  shrieked  and  gib- 
bered! How  they  danced  and  sidled!  Honour,  patriotism, 
chastity,  wealth,  success,  importance,  position,  patronage, 
power — their  cries  rang  and  echoed  from  all  quarters. 
'  Anywhere,  anywhere,  out  of  this  world ! '  was  the  only 
exclamation  with  which  one  could  stave  off  the  brazen  din 
as  one  fled  downstairs,  out  of  doors,  round  the  motor-cars, 
beneath  the  disdain  of  the  horse  and  its  rider,  and  so  out 
into  the  comparative  sobriety  of  Piccadilly.  No  doubt  the 
reaction  was  excessive;  and  I  must  leave  it  to  Mr.  Roger  Fry 
to  decide  whether  the  emotions  here  recorded  are  the  proper 
result  of  one  thousand  six  hundred  and  seventy-four  works 
of  art. 


224 


Poe's  Helen1 


THE  real  interest  of  Miss  Ticknor's  volume  2  lies  in  the 
figure  of  Mrs.  Whitman,  and  not  in  the  love  letters  from 
Poe,  which  have  already  been  published.  It  is  true  that  if  it 
had  not  been  for  her  connexion  with  Poe  we  should  never 
have  heard  of  Helen  Whitman;  but  it  is  also  true  that  Poe's 
connexion  with  Mrs.  Whitman  was  neither  much  to  his 
credit  nor  a  matter  of  moment  to  the  world  at  large.  If  it 
were  our  object  to  enhance  the  charm  of  'the  only  true 
romantic  figure  in  our  literature',  as  Miss  Ticknor  calls  him, 
we  should  have  suppressed  his  love  letters  altogether.  Mrs. 
Whitman,  on  the  other  hand,  comes  very  well  out  of  the 
ordeal,  and  was  evidently,  apart  from  Poe,  a  curious  and 
interesting  person. 

She  wrote  poetry  from  her  childhood,  and  when  in  early 
youth  she  was  left  a  widow  she  settled  down  to  lead  a  literary 
life  in  earnest.  In  those  days  and  in  America  this  was  not  so 
simple  a  proceeding  as  it  has  since  become.  If  you  wrote  an 
essay  upon  Shelley,  for  example,  the  most  influential  family 
in  Providence  considered  that  you  had  fallen  from  grace.  If, 
like  Mr.  Ellery  Channing,  you  went  to  Europe  and  left  your 
wife  behind,  this  was  sufficient  proof  that  you  were  not  a 
'great  perfect  man',  as  the  true  poet  is  bound  to  be.  Mrs. 
Whitman  took  her  stand  against  such  crudities,  and,  indeed, 
rather  went  out  of  her  way  to  invite  attack.  Whatever  the 
fashion  and  whatever  the  season  she  wore  her  '  floating  veils ' 
and  her  thin  slippers,  and  carried  a  fan  in  her  hand.  By 
means  of '  inverting  her  lampshades '  and  hanging  up  bits  of 
drapery  her  sitting-room  was  kept  in  a  perpetual  twilight.  It 
was  the  age  of  the  Transcendentalists,  and  the  fans  and  the 
veils  and  the  twilight  were,  no  doubt,  intended  to  mitigate 

1   Times  Literary  Supplement,  April  5,  191 7. 
2  Poe's  Helen,  by  Caroline  Ticknor. 

225 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

the  solidity  of  matter,  and  entice  the  soul  out  of  the  body 
with  as  little  friction  as  possible.  Nature  too  had  been  kind  in 
endowing  her  with  a  pale,  eager  face,  a  spiritual  expression, 
and  deep-set  eyes  that  gazed  'beyond  but  never  at  you'. 

Her  house  became  a  centre  for  the  poets  of  the  district,  for 
she  was  witty  and  charming  as  well  as  enthusiastic.  John 
Hay,  G.  W.  Curtis,  and  the  Hon.  Wilkins  Updike  used  to 
send  her  their  works  to  criticize,  or  in  very  long  and  abstruse 
letters  tried  to  define  what  they  meant  by  poetry.  The  mark 
of  that  particular  set,  which  was  more  or  less  connected  with 
Emerson  and  Margaret  Fuller,  was  an  enthusiastic  cham- 
pionship of  the  rights  of  the  soul.  They  ventured  into  a 
sphere  where  words  naturally  were  unable  to  support  them. 
'Poetry',  as  Mr.  Curtis  said,  'is  the  adaption  of  music  to  an 
intellectual  sphere.  But  it  must  therefore  be  revealed  through 
souls  too  fine  to  be  measured  justly  by  the  intellect.  .  .  . 
Music  ...  is  a  womanly  accomplishment,  because  it  is 
sentiment,  and  the  instinct  declares  its  nature',  etc.  This 
exalted  mood  never  quite  deserted  them  when  they  were 
writing  about  matters  of  fact.  When  Mrs.  Whitman  forgot 
to  answer  a  letter  Mr.  Curtis  inquired  whether  she  was  ill 
'or  has  the  autumn  which  lies  round  the  horizon  like  a 
beautifully  hued  serpent  crushing  the  flower  of  summer 
fascinated  you  to  silence  with  its  soft,  calm  eyes?'  Mrs. 
Whitman,  it  is  clear,  was  the  person  who  kept  them  all  up 
to  this  very  high  standard.  Thus  things  went  on  until  Mrs. 
Whitman  had  reached  the  age  of  forty-two.  One  July  night, 
in  1845,  she  happened  to  be  wandering  in  her  garden  in  the 
moonlight  when  Edgar  Allan  Poe  passed  by  and  saw  her. 
'From  that  hour  I  loved  you',  he  wrote  later.  '.  .  .  your 
unknown  heart  seemed  to  pass  into  my  bosom — there  to 
dwell  for  ever.'  The  immediate  result  was  that  he  wrote  the 
verses  To  Helen  which  he  sent  her.  Three  years  later,  when 
he  was  the  famous  poet  of  The  Raven,  Mrs.  Whitman  replied 
with  a  valentine,  of  which  the  last  stanza  runs — 

Then,  oh  grim  and  ghastly  Raven 
Wilt  thou  to  my  heart  and  ear 
226 


POE    S    HELEN 

Be  a  Raven  true  as  ever 

Flapped  his  wings  and  croaked  '  Despair '  ? 

Not  a  bird  that  roams  the  forest 

Shall  our  lofty  eyrie  share. 

For  some  time  their  meeting  was  postponed,  and  no  word 
of  prose  passed  between  them.  It  might  have  been  postponed 
for  ever  had  it  not  been  for  another  copy  of  verses  which 
Mrs.  Whitman  ended  with  the  line 

/  dwell  with  'Beauty  which  is  Hope\ 

Upon  receipt  of  these  verses  Poe  immediately  procured  a 
letter  of  introduction  and  set  off  to  Providence.  His  declara- 
tion of  love  took  place  in  the  course  of  the  next  fortnight 
during  a  walk  in  the  cemetery.  Mrs.  Whitman  would  not 
consent  to  an  engagement,  but  she  agreed  to  write  to  him, 
and  thus  the  famous  correspondence  began. 

Professor  Harrison  can  only  compare  Poe's  letters  to  the 
letters  of  Abelard  and  Eloise  or  to  the  Sonnets  from  the 
Portuguese',  Miss  Ticknor  says  that  they  have  won  themselves 
a  niche  among  the  world's  classic  love  letters.  Professor 
Woodberry,  on  the  other  hand,  thinks  that  they  should 
never  have  been  published.  We  agree  with  Professor  Wood- 
berry,  not  because  they  do  damage  to  Poe's  reputation,  but 
because  we  find  them  very  tedious  compositions.  Whether 
you  are  writing  a  review  or  a  love  letter  the  great  thing  is  to 
be  confronted  with  a  very  vivid  idea  of  your  subject.  When 
Poe  wrote  to  Mrs.  Whitman  he  might  have  been  addressing 
a  fashion  plate  in  a  ladies'  newspaper — a  fashion  plate 
which  walks  the  cemetery  by  moonlight,  for  the  atmosphere 
is  one  of  withered  roses  and  moonshine.  The  fact  that  he 
had  buried  Virginia  a  short  time  before,  that  he  denied  his 
love  for  her,  that  he  was  writing  to  Annie  at  the  same  time 
and  in  the  same  style,  that  he  was  about  to  propose  to  a 
widow  for  the  sake  of  her  money — all  his  perfidies  and 
meannesses  do  not  by  themselves  make  it  impossible  that 
he  loved  Mrs.  Whitman  genuinely.  Were  it  not  for  the 
letters  we  might  accept  the  charitable  view  that  this  was  his 
last  effort  at  redemption.  But  when  we  read  the  letters  we 

227 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

feel  that  the  man  who  wrote  them  had  no  emotion  left 
about  anything;  his  world  was  a  world  of  phantoms  and 
fashion  plates;  his  phrases  are  the  cast-off  phrases  that  were 
not  quite  good  enough  for  a  story.  He  could  see  neither 
himself  nor  others  save  through  a  mist  of  opium  and  alcohol. 
The  engagement,  which  had  been  made  conditional  upon 
his  reform,  was  broken  off;  Mrs.  Whitman  sank  on  to  a  sofa 
holding  a  handkerchief '  drenched  in  ether '  to  her  face,  and 
her  old  mother  rather  pointedly  observed  to  Poe  that  the 
train  was  about  to  leave  for  New  York. 

Cynical  though  it  sounds,  we  doubt  whether  Mrs.  Whit- 
man lost  as  much  as  she  gained  by  the  unfortunate  end  of 
her  love  affair.  Her  feeling  for  Poe  was  probably  more  that 
of  a  benefactress  than  of  a  lover;  for  she  was  one  of  those 
people  who  'devoutly  believe  that  serpents  may  be  re- 
claimed. This  is  only  effected  by  patience  and  prayer — but 
the  results  are  wonderful.'  This  particular  serpent  was  irre- 
claimable; he  was  picked  up  unconscious  in  the  street  and 
died  a  year  later.  But  he  left  behind  him  a  crop  of  reptiles 
who  taxed  Mrs.  Whitman's  patience  and  needed  her  prayers 
for  the  rest  of  her  life.  She  became  the  recognized  authority 
upon  Poe,  and  whenever  a  biographer  was  in  need  of  facts 
or  old  Mrs.  Clemm  was  in  need  of  money  they  applied  to 
her.  She  had  to  decide  the  disputes  of  the  different  ladies  as 
to  which  had  been  loved  the  most,  and  to  keep  the  peace 
between  the  rival  historians,  for  whether  a  woman  is  more 
vain  of  her  love  or  an  author  of  his  work  has  yet  to  be 
decided.  But  the  opportunities  which  such  a  position  gave 
her  of  endless  charity  and  literary  discussion  evidently  suited 
her  and  the  good  sense  and  wit  of  the  bird-like  little  woman, 
who  was  extremely  poor  and  had  an  eccentric  sister  to 
provide  for,  seem  to  justify  her  statement  that  '  the  results 
are  wonderful'. 


228 


Visits  to  Walt  Whitman1 

THE  great  fires  of  intellectual  life  which  burn  at  Oxford 
and  at  Cambridge  are  so  well  tended  and  long  estab- 
lished that  it  is  difficult  to  feel  the  wonder  of  this  concentra- 
tion upon  immaterial  things  as  one  should.  When,  however, 
one  stumbles  by  chance  upon  an  isolated  fire  burning 
brightly  without  associations  or  encouragement  to  guard  it, 
the  flame  of  the  spirit  becomes  a  visible  hearth  where  one 
may  warm  one's  hands  and  utter  one's  thanksgiving.  It  is 
only  by  chance  that  one  comes  upon  them;  they  burn  in 
unlikely  places.  If  asked  to  sketch  the  condition  of  Bolton 
about  the  year  1885  one's  thoughts  would  certainly  revolve 
round  the  cotton  market,  as  if  the  true  heart  of  Bolton's 
prosperity  must  lie  there.  No  mention  would  be  made  of  the 
group  of  young  men — clergymen,  manufacturers,  artisans, 
and  bank  clerks  by  profession — who  met  on  Monday  even- 
ings, made  a  point  of  talking  about  something  serious,  could 
broach  the  most  intimate  and  controversial  matters  frankly 
and  without  fear  of  giving  offence,  and  held  in  particular 
the  view  that  Walt  Whitman  was  'the  greatest  epochal 
figure  in  all  literature'.  Yet  who  shall  set  a  limit  to  the  effect 
of  such  talking?  In  this  instance,  besides  the  invaluable 
spiritual  service,  it  also  had  some  surprisingly  tangible 
results.  As  a  consequence  of  those  meetings  two  of  the  talkers 
crossed  the  Atlantic;  a  steady  flow  of  presents  and  messages 
set  in  between  Bolton  and  Camden;  and  Whitman  as  he  lay 
dying  had  the  thought  of 'those  good  Lancashire  chaps'  in 
his  mind.  The  book  2  recounting  these  events  has  been  pub- 
lished before,  but  it  is  well  worth  reprinting  for  the  light  it 
sheds  upon  a  new  type  of  hero  and  the  kind  of  worship 
which  was  acceptable  to  him. 

1  Times  Literary  Supplement,  January  3,  1918. 

2  Visits  to  Walt  Whitman  in  i8go-gi,  by  J.  Johnston  and  J.  W.  Wallace. 

229 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

To  Whitman  there  was  nothing  unbefitting  the  dignity  of 
a  human  being  in  the  acceptance  either  of  money  or  of 
underwear,  but  he  said  that  there  is  no  need  to  speak  of  these 
things  as  gifts.  On  the  other  hand,  he  had  no  relish  for  a 
worship  founded  upon  the  illusion  that  he  was  somehow 
better  or  other  than  the  mass  of  human  beings.  'Well,'  he 
said,  stretching  out  his  hand  to  greet  Mr.  Wallace,  'you've 
come  to  be  disillusioned,  have  you?'  And  Mr.  Wallace 
owned  to  himself  that  he  was  a  little  disillusioned.  Nothing 
in  Walt  Whitman's  appearance  was  out  of  keeping  with  the 
loftiest  poetic  tradition.  He  was  a  magnificent  old  man, 
massive,  shapely,  impressive  by  reason  of  his  power,  his 
delicacy,  and  his  unfathomable  depths  of  sympathy.  The 
disillusionment  lay  in  the  fact  that  'the  greatest  epochal 
figure  in  all  literature'  was  'simpler,  homelier,  and  more 
intimately  related  to  myself  than  I  had  imagined'.  Indeed, 
the  poet  seems  to  have  been  at  pains  to  bring  his  common 
humanity  to  the  forefront.  And  everything  about  him  was 
as  rough  as  it  could  be.  The  floor,  which  was  only  half  car- 
peted, was  covered  with  masses  of  papers;  eating  and  wash- 
ing things  mixed  themselves  with  proofs  and  newspaper 
cuttings  in  such  ancient  accumulations  that  a  precious 
letter  from  Emerson  dropped  out  accidentally  from  the  mass 
after  years  of  interment.  In  the  midst  of  all  this  litter  Walt 
Whitman  sat  spotlessly  clean  in  his  rough  grey  suit,  with 
much  more  likeness  to  a  retired  farmer  whose  working  days 
are  over;  it  pleased  him  to  talk  of  this  man  and  of  that,  to  ask 
questions  about  their  children  and  their  land;  and,  whether 
it  was  the  result  of  thinking  back  over  places  and  human 
beings  rather  than  over  books  and  thoughts,  his  mood  was 
uniformly  benignant.  His  temperament,  and  no  sense  of 
duty,  led  him  to  this  point  of  view,  for  in  his  opinion  it 
behoved  him  to  'give  out  or  express  what  I  really  was,  and, 
if  I  felt  like  the  Devil,  to  say  so!' 

And  then  it  appeared  that  this  wise  and  free-thinking  old 
farmer  was  getting  letters  from  Symonds  and  sending  mes- 
sages to  Tennyson,  and  was  indisputably,  both  in  his  opinion 
and  in  yours,  of  the  same  stature  and  importance  as  any  of 

230 


VISITS    TO    WALT    WHITMAN 

the  heroic  figures  of  the  past  or  present.  Their  names  dropped 
into  his  talk  as  the  names  of  equals.  Indeed,  now  and  then 
something  seemed  'to  set  him  apart  in  spiritual  isolation 
and  to  give  him  at  times  an  air  of  wistful  sadness',  while  into 
his  free  and  easy  gossip  drifted  without  effort  the  phrases 
and  ideas  of  his  poems.  Superiority  and  vitality  lay  not  in  a 
class  but  in  the  bulk;  the  average  of  the  American  people,  he 
insisted,  was  immense,  'though  no  man  can  become  truly 
heroic  who  is  really  poor'.  And  'Shakespeare  and  such- 
like' come  in  of  their  own  accord  on  the  heels  of  other 
matters.  'Shakespeare  is  the  poet  of  great  personalities.'  As 
for  passion,  'I  rather  think  iEschylus  greater'.  'A  ship  in 
full  sail  is  the  grandest  sight  in  the  world,  and  it  has  never 
yet  been  put  into  a  poem.'  Or  he  would  throw  off  comments 
as  from  an  equal  height  upon  his  great  English  contem- 
poraries. Carlyle,  he  said,  'lacked  amorousness'.  Carlyle 
was  a  growler.  When  the  stars  shone  brightly — 'I  guess  an 
exception  in  that  country' — and  some  one  said  'It's  a 
beautiful  sight',  Carlyle  said,  'It's  a  sad  sight'.  .  .  .  'What 
a  growler  he  was ! ' 

It  is  inevitable  that  one  should  compare  the  old  age  of 
two  men  who  steered  such  different  courses  until  one  saw 
nothing  but  sadness  in  the  shining  of  the  stars  and  the  other 
could  sink  into  a  reverie  of  bliss  over  the  scent  of  an  orange. 
In  Whitman  the  capacity  for  pleasure  seemed  never  to 
diminish,  and  the  power  to  include  grew  greater  and  greater; 
so  that  although  the  authors  of  this  book  lament  that  they 
have  only  a  trivial  bunch  of  sayings  to  offer  us,  we  are  left 
with  a  sense  of  an  '  immense  background  or  vista '  and  stars 
shining  more  brightly  than  in  our  climate. 


231 


Oliver  Wendell  Holmes1 

A  HUNDRED  years  ago  one  might  talk  more  glibly  of 
American  literature  than  it  is  safe  to  do  at  present.  The 
ships  that  pass  each  other  on  the  Atlantic  do  more  than  lift 
a  handful  of  Americans  and  Englishmen  from  one  shore  to 
another;  they  have  dulled  our  national  self-consciousness. 
Save  for  the  voice  and  certain  small  differences  of  manner 
which  give  them  a  flavour  of  their  own,  Americans  sink  into 
us,  over  here,  like  raindrops  into  the  sea.  On  their  side  they 
have  lost  much  of  that  nervous  desire  to  assert  their  own 
independence  and  maturity  in  opposition  to  a  mother 
country  which  was  always  reminding  them  of  their  tender 
age.  Such  questions  as  Lowell  conceived — 'A  country  of 
parvenus,  with  a  horrible  consciousness  of  shoddy  running 
through  politics,  manners,  art,  literature,  nay,  religion 
itself?'  and  answered  as  we  may  guess,  no  longer  fret  them; 
the  old  adjectives  which  Hawthorne  rapped  out — 'the 
boorishness,  the  stolidity,  the  self-sufficiency,  the  contemp- 
tuous jealousy,  the  half  sagacity  (etc.,  etc.)  that  characterize 
this  strange  people ' — are  left  for  their  daily  Press  in  moments 
of  panic;  for  international  criticism,  as  Mr.  Henry  James 
has  proved,  has  become  a  very  delicate  and  serious  matter. 
The  truth  is  that  time  and  the  steamboats  have  rubbed  out 
these  crudities;  and  if  we  wish  to  understand  American  art, 
or  politics,  or  literature,  we  must  look  as  closely  as  we  look 
when  blood  and  speech  are  strange  to  us. 

The  men  who  were  most  outspoken  against  us  brought 
about  this  reasonable  relationship  partly  because  we  read 
their  books  as  our  own,  and  partly  because  literature  is  able 
to  suggest  the  surroundings  in  which  it  is  produced.  We  are 
now  able  to  think  of  Boston  or  Cambridge  as  places  with  a 
life  of  their  own  as  distinct  and  as  different  from  ours  as  the 
1  Times  Literary  Supplement,  August  26,  1909. 
232 


OLIVER    WENDELL    HOLMES 

London  of  Pope  is  different  from  the  London  of  Edward 
VII.  The  man  who  contributed  to  this  intimacy,  which  is 
founded  upon  an  understanding  that  we  differ  in  many 
ways,  as  much  as  any  of  the  rest,  was  undoubtedly  Oliver 
Wendell  Holmes,  although  he  did  it  by  means  that  were 
very  different  from  theirs.  He  was,  in  some  respects,  the 
most  complete  American  of  them  all. 

He  was  born  in  1809  of  the  best  blood  in  the  country,  for 
his  father,  the  Rev.  Abiel  Holmes,  came  from  an  old  Puritan 
stock  which  might  be  traced  to  a  lawyer  of  Gray's  Inn  in  the 
sixteenth  century,  and  his  mother,  Sarah  Wendell,  had  dis- 
tinguished blood  from  many  sources,  Dutch  and  Norman 
and  good  American.  His  father  was  stern  and  handsome, 
and  taught  'the  old-fashioned  Calvinism,  with  all  its  hor- 
rors'; his  mother  was  a  little  sprightly  woman,  inquisitive 
and  emotional.  People  who  knew  them  said  that  the  son 
inherited  more  from  her  than  from  his  father.  It  was  one  of 
the  charming  characteristics  of  the  mature  man  that  he  was 
always  looking  back  to  his  childhood,  and  steeping  it  in  such 
shade  and  quaintness  as  a  ' gambrel-roofed  house'  built  in 
1730  will  provide;  like  Hawthorne  he  had  a  pathetic  desire 
to  mix  his  childish  memories  with  something  old,  mysterious, 
and  beautiful  in  itself.  There  were  dents  in  the  floor  where 
the  soldiers  had  dropped  their  muskets  during  the  Revolu- 
tion; the  family  portraits  had  been  slashed  by  British 
rapiers;  and  there  was  a  chair  where  Lord  Percy  had  sat  to 
have  his  hair  dressed.  From  the  vague  memories  that  hang 
about  his  early  years,  and  inspire  some  of  the  pleasantest 
pages  in  his  books,  one  may  choose  two  for  their  import- 
ance. 'I  might  have  been  a  minister  myself,  for  aught  I 
know,  if had  not  looked  and  talked  so  like  an  under- 
taker.' It  was  not  until  much  later  that  he  could  analyse 
what  had  happened  to  him  as  a  child.  When  he  could  read 
he  was  taught  that  '  We  were  a  set  of  little  fallen  wretches, 
exposed  to  the  wrath  of  God  by  the  fact  of  that  existence 
which  we  could  not  help.'  He  was  roused  in  revolt  against 
what  he  called  'the  inherited  servitude  of  my  ancestors', 
and  not  only  decided  against  the  ministry  as  a  calling,  but 

233 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

never  ceased  to  preach  the  beliefs  which  his  early  revolt  had 
taught  him.  These  beliefs  were  started  in  him,  or  at  any  rate 
his  old  views  were  shaken  for  ever,  by  a  peep  through  a 
telescope  on  the  common  at  the  transit  of  Venus.  He  looked, 
and  the  thought  came  to  him,  like  a  shock,  that  the  earth  too 
was  no  bigger  than  a  marble;  he  went  on  to  think  how  this 
planet  is  'equipped  and  provisioned  for  a  long  voyage  in 
space'.  The  shock  seems  to  have  shown  him  both  that  we 
are  part  of  a  great  system,  and  also  that  our  world  will  last 
for  a  period  'transcending  all  our  ordinary  measures  of 
time'.  If  it  is  true  that  we  are  to  continue  indefinitely,  then 
it  is  possible,  he  found,  to  consider  that  'this  colony  of  the 
universe  is  an  educational  institution'  and  this  is  'the  only 
theory  which  can  "justify  the  way  of  God  to  man"'.  We 
may  disbelieve  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  and  in  the  fall  of  man; 
and  we  may  believe  that '  this  so-called  evil  to  which  I  cannot 
close'  is  a  passing  condition  from  which  we  shall  emerge. 
He  had  found  a  basis  for  that  optimism  which  inspired  his 
teaching,  and,  if  the  reasons  which  he  gave  seem  insufficient, 
his  conclusions  and  the  way  they  came  to  him — looking 
through  a  telescope  for  ten  cents  at  the  transit  of  Venus — 
bear  out  much  that  we  think  when  we  know  him  better.  The 
practical  result  of  the  conflict  was  that  he  became  a  doctor 
instead  of  a  clergyman,  spent  two  years  in  Paris  studying 
his  profession,  visited  England  and  Italy  on  his  way,  and 
returned  to  practise  in  Boston,  living  there  and  at  Cam- 
bridge, with  the  exception  of  his  hundred  days  in  Europe, 
for  the  rest  of  his  life. 

The  most  diligent  of  biographers  can  find  little  to  add  to 
such  a  record,  nor  did  Dr.  Holmes  come  to  the  rescue.  His 
letters  are  not  intimate;  like  other  people  who  write  much 
about  themselves  in  public,  he  has  little  to  say  in  private. 
As  a  doctor  he  never  won  a  large  practice,  for  he  not  only 
collected  a  volume  of  poetry  from  time  to  time,  but  smiled 
when  the  door  was  opened  and  made  jokes  upon  the  stair- 
case. When  someone  asked  him  what  part  of  anatomy  he 
liked  best,  he  answered:  'The  bones;  they  are  cleanest'.  The 
answer  shows  us  the  'plain  little  dapper  man',  who  could 

234 


OLIVER    WENDELL    HOLMES 

never  bear  the  sights  of  a  sick-room,  who  laughed  to  relieve 
the  tension,  who  would  run  away  when  a  rabbit  was  to  be 
chloroformed,  who  was  clean  and  scrupulous  in  all  respects, 
and  inclined,  as  a  young  man,  to  satirize  the  world  with  a 
somewhat  acrid  humour.  Two  friends  have  put  together  a 
picture  of  him.  'A  small,  compact,  little  man  .  .  .  buzzing 
about  like  a  bee,  or  fluttering  like  a  humming  bird,  exceed- 
ingly difficult  to  catch  unless  he  be  really  wanted  for  some 
kind  act,  and  then  you  are  sure  of  him.'  The  other  adds  that 
he  has  a  'powerful  jaw  and  a  thick  strong  under-lip,  that 
gives  decision  to  his  look,  with  a  dash  of  pertness.  In  con- 
versation he  is  animated  and  cordial — sharp,  too,  taking  the 
words  out  of  one's  mouth.' 

At  this  time,  before  the  publication  of  the  Autocrat,  he  was 
famous  for  his  talk  and  for  his  verses.  The  verses  were  for  the 
most  part  inspired  by  dinners  and  'occasions';  they  light 
up  for  us  the  circle  of  American  men  of  letters  who  met  and 
talked  at  Parker's  Hotel,  as  men  had  talked  at  Will's  Coffee 
House;  they  are  addressed  to  people  who  know  each  other 
well.  His  reputation,  therefore,  independently  of  his  medical 
works,  was  very  intense,  but  very  local.  He  was  almost  fifty 
when  the  first  of  the  Autocrat  papers  '  came  from  my  mind 
almost  with  an  explosion'.  The  Professor  and  The  Poet  fol- 
lowed; then  there  were  the  two  novels;  he  became,  in  short, 
a  man  of  letters  from  whom  the  public  expects  a  regular 
statement  of  opinion.  Even  at  this  distance  it  is  easy  to 
imagine  the  rush  with  which  the  Autocrat  came  into  the 
world.  Every  breakfast- table  in  Boston  knew  the  writer  by 
repute,  knew  of  his  birth  and  traditions,  and  read  his  views 
in  print  with  a  kind  of  personal  pride,  as  though  he  were  the 
mouthpiece  of  a  family.  Those  associations  are  no  longer 
ours;  but,  as  the  manner  of  beauty  clings  when  beauty  is 
gone,  so  we  can  still  relish  the  gusto  with  which  Dr.  Holmes 
addressed  himself  to  his  fellow-citizens. 

This  is  true,  and  yet  is  it  possible  that  we  should  not  dwell 
upon  such  considerations  if  we  were  altogether  beneath  the 
Autocrat's  spell?  There  is,  we  must  own  it,  a  little  temptation 
to  try  to  account  for  our  ancestors'  tastes,  and  so  to  avoid 

235 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

formulating  our  own.  The  chief  interest,  however,  of  these 
centenary  celebrations  is  that  they  provide  an  opportunity 
for  one  generation  to  speak  its  mind  of  another  with  a  can- 
dour and  perhaps  with  an  insight  which  contemporaries 
may  hardly  possess.  The  trial  is  sharp,  for  the  books  that 
live  to  such  an  age  will  live  to  a  much  greater  age,  and  raise 
the  standard  of  merit  very  high.  Let  us  own  at  once  that 
Dr.  Holmes's  works  can  hardly  be  said  to  survive  in  the  sense 
that  they  still  play  any  part  in  our  lives;  nor  is  he  among  the 
writers  who  live  on  without  any  message  to  deliver  because 
of  the  sheer  delight  that  we  take  in  their  art.  The  fact  that 
there  is  someone  who  will  write  a  centenary  biography  for  a 
public  that  reads  the  Autocrat  cannot  be  set  down  to  either 
of  these  causes;  and  yet,  if  we  seek  it  on  a  lower  plane,  we 
shall  surely  find  reason  enough.  There  is,  to  begin  with,  the 
reason  that  our  own  experience  affords  us.  When  we  take  it 
up  at  a  tender  age — for  it  is  one  of  the  first  books  that  one 
reads  for  oneself — it  tastes  like  champagne  after  breakfast 
cups  of  weak  tea.  The  miraculous  ease  with  which  the  talk 
flows  on,  the  richness  of  simile  and  anecdote,  the  humour 
and  the  pathos,  the  astonishing  maturity  of  the  style,  and, 
above  all,  some  quality  less  easy  to  define,  as  though  fruits 
just  beyond  our  reach  were  being  dropped  plump  into  our 
hands  and  proving  deliciously  firm  and  bright — these  sensa- 
tions make  it  impossible  to  think  of  the  Autocrat  save  as  an 
elderly  relative  who  has  pressed  half-sovereigns  into  one's 
palm  and  at  the  same  time  flattered  one's  self-esteem.  Later, 
if  some  of  the  charm  is  gone,  one  is  able  to  appraise  these 
virtues  more  soberly.  They  have,  curiously  enough,  far  more 
of  the  useful  than  of  the  ornamental  in  their  composition. 
We  are  more  impressed,  that  is,  by  the  honesty  and  the 
common  sense  of  the  Autocrat's  remarks,  and  by  the  fact  that 
they  are  the  fruit  of  wide  observation,  than  by  the  devices 
with  which  they  are  decked  out. 

The  pages  of  the  book  abound  with  passages  like  the 
following: 

Two  men  are  walking  by  the  polyphloesbcean  ocean, 
one  of  them  having  a  small  tin  cup  with  which  he  can 

236 


OLIVER  WENDELL  HOLMES 

scoop  up  a  gill  of  sea-water  when  he  will,  and  the  other 
nothing  but  his  hands,  which  will  hardly  hold  water  at 
all — and  you  call  the  tin  cup  a  miraculous  possession!  It 
is  the  ocean  that  is  the  miracle,  my  infant  apostle!  Nothing 
is  clearer  than  that  all  things  are  in  all  things,  and  that 
just  according  to  the  intensity  and  extension  of  our  mental 
being  we  shall  see  the  many  in  the  one  and  the  one  in  the 
many.  Did  Sir  Isaac  think  what  he  was  saying  when  he 
made  his  speech  about  the  ocean — the  child  and  the 
pebbles,  you  know?  Did  he  mean  to  speak  slightingly  of  a 
pebble?  Of  a  spherical  solid  which  stood  sentinel  over  its 
compartment  of  space  before  the  stone  that  became  the 
pyramids  had  grown  solid,  and  has  watched  it  until  now! 
A  body  which  knows  all  the  currents  of  force  that  traverse 
the  globe;  which  holds  by  invisible  threads  to  the  ring  of 
Saturn  and  the  belt  of  Orion!  A  body  from  the  contempla- 
tion of  which  an  archangel  could  infer  the  entire  inorganic 
universe  as  the  simplest  of  corollaries!  A  throne  of  the  all- 
pervading  Deity,  who  has  guided  its  very  atom  since  the 
rosary  of  heaven  was  strung  with  beaded  stars! 

This  is  sufficiently  plausible  and  yet  light  in  weight;  the 
style  shares  what  we  are  apt  to  think  the  typical  American 
defect  of  over-ingenuity  and  an  uneasy  love  of  decoration; 
as  though  they  had  not  yet  learnt  the  art  of  sitting  still.  The 
universe  to  him,  as  he  says,  'swam  in  an  ocean  of  similitudes 
and  analogies';  but  the  imaginative  power  which  is  thus 
implied  is  often  more  simply  and  more  happily  displayed. 
The  sight  of  old  things  inspires  him,  or  memories  of  boy- 
hood. 

Now,  the  sloop-of-war  the  Wasp,  Captain  Blakely,  after 
gloriously  capturing  the  Reindeer  and  the  Avon,  had 
disappeared  from  the  face  of  the  ocean,  and  was  supposed 
to  be  lost.  But  there  was  no  proof  of  it,  and,  of  course,  for  a 
time,  hopes  were  entertained  that  she  might  be  heard 
from.  Long  after  the  last  real  chance  had  utterly  van- 
ished, I  pleased  myself  with  the  fond  illusion  that  some- 
where on  the  waste  of  waters  she  was  still  floating,  and 
there  were  years  during  which  I  never  heard  the  sound  of 
the  great  gun  booming  inland  from  the  Navy-yard  with- 
out saying  to  myself,  'The  Wasp  has  come!'  and  almost 
thinking  I   could  see  her,   as  she  rolled  in,   crumpling 

237 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

the  water  before  her,  weather-beaten,  barnacled,  with 
shattered  spars  and  threadbare  canvas,  welcomed  by  the 
shouts  and  tears  of  thousands.  This  was  one  of  those 
dreams  that  I  nursed  and  never  told.  Let  me  make  a 
clean  breast  of  it  now,  and  say  that,  so  late  as  to  have 
outgrown  childhood,  perhaps  to  have  got  far  on  towards 
manhood,  when  the  roar  of  the  cannon  has  struck  sud- 
denly on  my  ear,  I  have  started  with  a  thrill  of  vague 
expectation  and  tremulous  delight,  and  the  long-unspoken 
words  have  articulated  themselves  in  the  mind's  dumb 
whisper,  The  Wasp  has  come! 

The  useful  virtues  are  there,  nevertheless.  The  love  of  joy, 
in  the  first  place,  which  raced  in  his  blood  from  the  cradle 
was  even  more  of  a  virtue  when  the  Autocrat  was  published 
than  it  is  now.  There  were  strict  parents  who  forbade  their 
children  to  read  the  book  because  it  made  free  with  the 
gloomy  morality  of  the  time.  His  sincerity,  too,  which  would 
show  itself  in  an  acrid  humour  as  a  young  man,  gives  an  air 
of  pugnacity  to  the  kindly  pages  of  the  Autocrat.  He  hated 
pomp,  and  stupidity,  and  disease.  It  may  not  be  due  to  the 
presence  of  high  virtues,  and  yet  how  briskly  his  writing 
moves  along!  We  can  almost  hear  him  talk,  'taking  the 
words  out  of  one's  mouth',  in  his  eagerness  to  get  them  said. 
Much  of  this  animation  is  due  to  the  easy  and  almost  inces- 
sant play  of  the  Autocrat's  humour;  and  yet  we  doubt  whether 
Dr.  Holmes  can  be  called  a  humourist  in  the  true  sense  of 
the  word.  There  is  something  that  paralyses  the  will  in 
humour,  and  Dr.  Holmes  was  primarily  a  medical  man  who 
valued  sanity  above  all  things.  Laughter  is  good,  as  fresh  air 
is  good,  but  he  retracts  instinctively  if  there  is  any  fear  that 
he  has  gone  too  deep: 

/  know  it  is  a  sin 

For  me  to  sit  and  grin — 

that  is  the  kindly  spirit  that  gives  his  humour  its  lightness, 
and,  it  must  be  added,  its  shallowness.  For,  when  the  range 
is  so  scrupulously  limited,  only  a  superficial  insight  is  pos- 
sible; if  the  world  is  only  moderately  ridiculous  it  can  never 

238 


OLIVER    WENDELL    HOLMES 

be  very  sublime.  But  it  is  easy  enough  to  account  for  the  fact 
that  his  characters  have  little  hold  upon  our  sympathies  by 
reflecting  that  Dr.  Holmes  did  not  write  in  order  to  create 
men  and  women,  but  in  order  to  state  the  opinions  which  a 
lifetime  of  observation  had  taught  him.  We  feel  this  even  in 
the  book  which  has  at  least  the  form  of  a  novel.  In  Elsie 
Venner  he  wished  to  answer  the  question  which  he  had  asked 
as  a  child;  can  we  be  justly  punished  for  an  hereditary  sin? 
The  result  is  that  we  watch  a  skilful  experiment;  all  Dr. 
Holmes's  humour  and  learning  (he  kept  a  live  rattlesnake 
for  months,  and  read  '  all  printed  knowledge '  about  poison) 
play  round  the  subject,  and  he  makes  us  perceive  how 
curious  and  interesting  the  case  is.  But — for  this  is  the  sum 
of  our  objections — we  are  not  interested  in  the  heroine;  and 
the  novel  so  far  as  it  seeks  to  convince  us  emotionally  is  a 
failure.  Even  so,  Dr.  Holmes  succeeds,  as  he  nearly  always 
does  succeed,  in  making  us  think;  he  presents  so  many  facts 
about  rattlesnakes  and  provincial  life,  so  many  reflections 
upon  human  life  in  general,  with  such  briskness  and  such  a 
lively  interest  in  his  own  ideas,  that  the  portentous  'physio- 
logical conception,  fertilized  by  a  theological  idea',  is  as 
fresh  and  almost  as  amusing  as  the  Autocrat  or  The  Professor. 
The  likeness  to  these  works,  which  no  disguise  of  fiction  will 
obscure,  proves  again  that  he  could  not,  as  he  puts  it,  'get 
cut  of  his  personality',  but  by  that  we  only  mean  to  define 
his  powers  in  certain  respects,  for  'personality'  limits 
Shakespeare  himself.  We  mean  that  he  is  one  of  those  writers 
who  do  not  see  much  more  than  other  people  see,  and  yet 
they  see  it  with  some  indescribable  turn  of  vision,  which 
reveals  their  own  character  and  serves  to  form  their  views 
into  a  coherent  creed.  Thus  it  is  that  his  readers  always  talk 
of  their  'intimacy'  with  Dr.  Holmes;  they  know  what  kind 
of  person  he  was  as  well  as  what  he  taught.  They  know  that 
he  loved  rowing  and  horses  and  great  trees;  that  he  was  full 
of  sentiment  for  his  childhood;  that  he  liked  men  to  be 
strong  and  sanguine,  and  honoured  the  weakness  of  women; 
that  he  loathed  all  gloom  and  unhealthiness;  that  charity 
and  tolerance  were  the  virtues  he  loved,  and  if  one  could 

239 


GRANITE    AND    RAINBOW 

combine  them  with  wit  it  was  so  much  to  the  good.  Above 
all,  one  must  enjoy  life  and  live  to  the  utmost  of  one's 
powers.  It  reads  something  like  a  medical  prescription,  and 
one  does  not  want  health  alone.  Nevertheless,  when  the 
obvious  objections  are  made,  we  need  not  doubt  that  it  will 
benefit  thousands  in  the  future,  and  they  will  love  the  man 
who  lived  as  he  wrote. 


le 


Date  Due 
Due      Rejourned     Due 





mti  0  7  19ft] 


Returned 


f 


ZOZ.3 


Granite  and  rainbow     main 
.3W9132gC2 


3  15fc,5  03271  77flb 


