(^LIBRARY  ^ 

UNIVERSITY  OF 
CALIFORNIA 

SAN  DIEGO    J 


<•    MARQUIS   PENDEREL  Dl  BOSCOBEL     I 


A  GUIDE  TO  THE  BEST 
HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES 


First  Edition,  printed  May,  1902.     Pp.  viii,,  124. 

Second  Edition,  printed  October,  1902.      With  complete  Indexes  to  Authors 
and  Titles.     Pp.  x.,  156. 

Third  Edition,  printed  February,  1904.     Revised  and  enlarged.    Pp.  xvi., 
236. 

Fourth   Edition   (Sixth    Thousand],  printed  April,   1911.     Revised :  with 
large  Supplement.     Pp.  xviii.,  522. 


A  Guide  to  the  Best 
Historical  Novels  and  Tales 


BY 

JONATHAN    NIELD 


"These  Historical  Novels  have  taught  all  men  this  truth,  which  looks 
like  a  truism,  and  yet  was  as  good  as  unknown  to  writers  of  history 
and  others,  till  so  taught :  that  the  bygone  ages  of  the  world  were  actually 
rilled  by  living  men,  not  by  protocols,  state-papers,  controversies,  and 
abstractions  of  men." 

Carlyle  on  the  Waverley  Novels. 


LONDON:    ELKIN    MATHEWS 
NEW  YORK:    G.   P.   PUTNAM'S   SONS 

1911 


TO  THE 

REV.   R.  C.  RADCLIFFE 

OF  ETON   COLLEGE 

IN    RECOGNITION    OF    MUCH 

HELP  AND   KINDNESS 

IN    BYGONE   DAYS 


CONTENTS 

PACK 

Preface  to  the  Fourth  Edition ix 

Preface  to  the  Third  Edition xiii 

Preface  to  the  Second  Edition xvii 

Introduction     ..........  i 

General  List  (Pre-Christian  Era) 19 

General  List  (First  Century  onwards) 21 

Supplementary  List  (Semi-Historical) 117 

Fifty  Representative  Historical  Novels 129 

Suggested  Courses  of  Reading  (Juvenile)       ....  141 

Bibliography 165 

Index  of  Authors  and  Titles 175 


Index  of  Titles 


219 

vii. 


CONTEN  TS— continued. 
SUPPLEMENT 

PACK 

General  List  (Pre-Christian  Era) 239 

General  List  (First  Century  onwards) 243 

Semi-Historical  Novels  and  Tales     '  .        .        .        .        .  407 

Notes  on  Juvenile  Literature 423 

Bibliography 431 

Index  of  Authors  and  Titles  (Supplement)     ....  437 

Index  of  Titles  (Supplement) 497 


VJil. 


PREFACE  TO  THE   FOURTH   EDITION. 

HAVING  apologised  already  for  a  third  preface,  I  ought,  no 
doubt,  to  crave  still  more  indulgence  now  that  I  come  to  write 
a  fourth.  But,  believing  that  I  have  something  to  say  which 
really  needs  saying,  I  shall  risk  whatever  charges  of  inconsis- 
tency and  superfluity  may  ensue. 

It  has  been  very  gratifying  to  learn  that  the  "  Guide  "  has 
continued  to  sell  regularly  through  all  the  seven  years  which 
have  elapsed  since  it  appeared  in  its  third  life-stage  at  the 
beginning  of  1904;  and  this,  in  spite  of  competition  in  two 
new  quarters.  The  much  longer  pause  in  republication  (the 
last  edition  was  by  far  the  largest)  has  enabled  me  to  effect 
what  I  regarded  in  the  first  instance  as  an  impossible  ideal; 
for,  besides  bringing  my  lists  up  to  date  through  the  entry  of 
new  books,  I  have  once  again  gone  over  old  ground,  and 
have  sought  to  include  all  those  novels  and  tales  which 
ignorance  or  ill-consideration  caused  me  to  omit  in  previous 
editions.  And,  let  it  be  stated  here  that,  in  rectifying  former 
omissions,  I  have  not  gone  to  workers  in  the  same  field  of 
Bibliography  and  stolen  their  honey ;  but  I  have,  throughout, 
taken  an  independent  line.  Hence,  although,  in  the  Supple- 
ment now  added,  there  are  descriptive  notes  on  several 
hundred  novels  and  tales  which  appeared  before  the  publi- 
cation of  Mr.  Bowen's  "  Catalogue  of  Historical  Novels " 

ix. 


(second  edition)  and  of  Dr.  Baker's  "  History  in  Fiction,"  not 
one  of  these  notes  is  based  upon  the  particulars  furnished  in 
either  work.  Wherever  possible,  I  have  obtained  my  infor- 
mation from  tlie  actual  novel  or  tale  described. 

Four  years  ago  (vide  Dr.  Baker's  kindly  allusion  in  the 
Preface  to  his  admirable  work  just  named),  it  was  hinted  that 
the  "  Guide  "  was  somewhat  lacking  in  its  "  degree  of  com- 
prehensiveness;"  such  a  criticism  could  scarcely  be  maintained 
now.  If  there  is  still  exclusion  to  some  extent,  there  is 
(fourth  edition)  inclusion  to  a  very  much  larger  extent.  I  have 
allowed  the  utmost  elasticity  in  my  later  decisions  as  to  his- 
torical qualification.  How  comprehensive  has  been  my 
selection,  may  be  judged  from  the  fact  that,  while  in  my 
enlarged  third  edition  the  annotated  lists  covered  between 
twelve  and  thirteen  hundred  novels  and  tales,  I  have  now 
passed  under  review  about  seventeen  hundred  more.  In  the 
total  of  nearly  three  thousand  novels  and  tales  thus  reached, 
over  two  thousand  are  not  to  be  found  in  Mr.  Bowen's 
catalogue,  and  some  thirteen  hundred  are  absent  from  Dr. 
Baker's  lists.  Comprehensiveness  alone,  however,  would  be 
a  poor  advantage,  and  I  believe  that,  in  its  present  form, 
besides  being  the  largest  bibliography  of  its  kind,  the  "  Guide  " 
is  also  the  most  accurate. 

And  this  brings  me  to  say  a  few  words  about  certain 
special  aims  that  I  have  striven  my  utmost  to  embody  in  the 
large  supplementary  portion  of  this  edition.  More  and  more, 
I  have  come  to  see  that,  in  a  reference  book  of  the  kind — 
making  its  appeal  to  readers  of  all  ages  and  of  varying  tastes 
— there  should  be  large  catholicity.  And  nowhere  is  such 
inclusiveness  more  desirable  than  in  the  case  of  Juvenile 
stories :  the  shortest  and  simplest  tale,  if  it  in  any  way 
illustrates  a  bygone  period,  may  prove  of  use  and  of  interest. 

x. 


In  both  English  and  foreign  history  there  are  particular  periods 
which  have  been  almost  entirely  overlooked  or  avoided  by 
v/riters  of  imaginative  literature ;  and,  bearing  this  in  mind,  I 
have  not  hesitated — after  much  laborious  investigation — to 
recommend  very  brief  stories  which  deal  with  more  or  less 
untouched  times  and  peoples.  Such  recommendation,  how- 
ever, has  of  course  been  subject  to  the  stories  in  question 
reaching  a  certain  standard  of  merit.  Again,  in  regard  to 
longer  tales,  there  are  many  which,  if  not  to  be  ranked  among 
absolutely  first-class  examples  of  historical  fiction,  are  very 
good  of  their  kind.  Recognition  of  this  has  led  me  to  reverse 
many  previous  judgments.  Hitherto,  one  really  capable 
author  has  fared  somewhat  badly  at  the  hands  of  bibliographers. 
I  allude  to  Herbert  Hayens ;  his  extremely  interesting  South 
American  tales  fill  a  gap  that  much  needed  filling,  and  I  have 
been  at  pains  to  give  an  accurate  account  of  each  one  of  them. 
Another  writer  who  has  been  ignored  to  a  very  much  greater 
extent,  is  Miss  Mary  H.  Debenham  :  many  of  her  tales — 
both  long  and  short — deserve  special  recommendation.  It  is 
strange  that,  although  some  fourteen  volumes  came  from  her 
pen  before  1905,  only  two  were  mentioned  in  Mr.  Bowen's 
"  Catalogue,"  and  not  one  appeared  either  in  my  own  third 
edition  or  in  Dr.  Baker's  "  History  in  Fiction."  These 
omissions  are,  I  trust,  fully  atoned  (so  far  as  the  "  Guide  "  is 
concerned)  in  the  complete  analyses  of  Miss  Debenham's 
stories  which  appear  throughout  the  Supplement. 

Turning  from  juvenile  fiction  to  the  novel  proper,  I  have 
very  carefully  considered  my  American  and  foreign  sections, 
as  regards  both  old  and  new  books.  In  the  English  sections 
I  have  gone  to  one  or  two  pre- Victorian  authors  for  repre- 
sentative writings,  while  omissions  in  the  case  of  this  or  that 
popular  modern  novelist  have  been  made  good.  The  fiction 

xi. 


published  in  the  seven  years  since  my  last  edition,  has  been 
exhaustively  treated.  During  that  period  not  a  few  reputations 
have  been  made;  among  the  most  deservedly  popular  of 
recent  imaginative  writers  I  may  specify  Rafael  Sabatini, 
"  Ashton  Hilliers,"  Michael  Barrington,  Charles  Major,  Alfred 
T.  Sheppard,  W.  J.  Eccott,  "  Morice  Gerard,"  "Marjorie 
Bowen,"  "K.  L.  Montgomery,"  Philip  L.  Stevenson,  Percy 
J.  Brebner,  Howard  Pease,  and  R.  H.  Forster  (the  two  last- 
named  have  specialised  in  Northumbrian  romance).  Of  those 
who  cater  for  young  people,  Herbert  Strang,  Captain  Brereton, 
Everett  T.  Tomlinson,  "  James  Otis,"  E.  E.  Crake,  Escott 
Lynn,  Dorothea  Moore,  Edith  E.  Cowper,  Gertrude  Hollis, 
Tom  Bevan,  "  Harry  Collingwood,"  Ernest  Protheroe,  and 
Harold  Avery,  may  be  mentioned  as  having  come  well  to  the 
fore. 

My  sincere  thanks  are  due  to  a  large  number  of  librarians, 
authors,  publishers,  and  booksellers,  whom,  owing  to  necessities 
of  space,  I  cannot  name  individually.  Perhaps  I  ought  to 
make  separate  acknowledgment  of  my  very  considerable 
obligation  to  officials  in  the  British  Museum  Reading  Room. 

J.N. 

March,  1911. 


Xll. 


PREFACE   TO    THE   THIRD    EDITION. 

THERE  is  a  justifiable  feeling  against  superfluous  prefaces, 
and  the  fact  that  this  little  volume  is  entering  the  third 
stage  of  its  existence  might  appear  to  suggest  that  the  time 
had  gone  by  for  explanations.  In  the  present  instance, 
however,  when  something  like  a  "  new  "  book  is  offered, 
an  extra  word  or  two  may  not  be  altogether  out  of  place. 
The  old  saying,  "  experience  teaches,"  holds  good  pre- 
eminently in  the  case  of  a  work  of  reference;  errors  of 
omission  and  commission  are  pointed  out  in  this  or  that 
quarter,  and  not  infrequently  a  criticism  of  the  kind  may 
be  accepted  as  the  basis  of  genuine  improvement.  This 
must  be  my  plea  in  response  to  objectors  who,  possessing 
the  earlier  incomplete  editions,  feel  somewhat  aggrieved  on 
learning  that  such  substantial  changes  and  additions  have 
been  made !  The  very  kind  reception  accorded  my  original 
effort  led  me  to  at  once  embark  on  labours  which,  without 
any  such  encouragement,  I  could  scarcely  have  faced.  At 
this  point  I  should  like  to  specify  the  many  suggestions 
and  criticisms  from  which  I  have  tried  to  reap  profit,  but 
conditions  of  space  forbid,  and  I  must  content  myself  with 
expressing  my  obligations  in  one  direction  only.  To  Prof. 
C.  S.  Fearenside,  who  has  done  such  good  work  in  the 
department  of  History  proper,  I  am  indebted  for  exceed- 
ingly valuable  advice. 


xm. 


Perhaps  I  shall  best  serve  those  consulting  my  pages  if 
I  briefly  enumerate  the  principal  features  in  this  new 
edition.  Passing  over  general  revision  and  enlargement,  I 
would  call  attention  to  the  following  points  : — 

(i.)  Detailed  description  of  individual  books  (with 
special  reference  to  localities  and  personages),  instead  of 
vague,  general  groupings  like  "  Norman  Conquest," 
"  French  Revolution,"  &c.,  &c.  It  is  hoped  that  the  use- 
fulness of  the  list  will  be  thereby  so  greatly  enhanced  as  to 
justify  the  labour  involved  in  this  extra  specification. 

(2.)  Large  increase  in  the  "  Supplementary  List "  of 
semi-historical  novels.  It  was  felt  that  (as  an  appreciative 
reviewer  in  The  Journal  of  Education  pointed  out)  many 
works  originally  placed  in  the  general  list  might,  with 
great  advantage,  be  transferred  to  this  supplementary 
section.  Moreover,  several  entirely  new  novels  have  been 
brought  in. 

(3.)  Specially  good  books  have  been  marked.  This  will, 
I  trust,  meet  the  objection  made  in  a  few  quarters  that  my 
choice  was  too  comprehensive.  Moreover,  a  list  of  "  Fifty 
Representative  Historical  Novels  "  (already  printed  else- 
where) is  offered  for  the  consideration  of  those  readers  who 
approach  Romance  in  a  more  or  less  critical  mood. 

(4.)  Amalgamation  of  the  two  Juvenile  Lists  (English 
History).  Books  with  decidedly  "Boyish"  or  "Girlish" 
tendencies  are  marked  accordingly.  Many  new  tales  have 
been  added  in  this  department. 

(5.)  Throughout  the  volume  American  Publishers  are 
given  as  well  as  English. 

(6.)  Original  publication  dates  have  been  given  (Authors 
and  Titles  Index) ;  in  the  case  of  a  translation,  the  date  is 
that  of  the  book  in  its  first  form  (French,  German,  Hun- 


garian,  &c.)  Wherever  possible,  the  title-page  date  has 
been  taken.  My  special  reason  for  inserting  these  dates,  at 
no  little  cost  of  time  and  pains,  is  to  show  those  who  care 
for  such  knowledge,  wider  what  period  of  historical  criticism 
or  non-criticism  any  book  was  written.  Moreover,  such 
dates  may  be  of  assistance  to  bibliographers  generally. 

(7.)  Lastly,  three-column  arrangement  of  lists  —  thus 
enabling  the  tabular  form  to  be  straight  down  instead  of 
across  the  page ;  this  will,  I  feel  sure,  be  much  handier  in 
the  case  of  quick  reference. 

There  is  one  small  matter  to  which  I  would  allude. 
Through  the  mis-reading,  doubtless,  of  a  passage  in  my 
Introduction,  I  see  that  a  too  indulgent  critic  has  ascribed 
to  me  an  achievement  to  which  I  cannot  lay  claim. 
Though  a  lover  of  Historical  Novels,  I  have  not  "  read 
thousands  of  such  works  " ;  the  compliment  is  a  doubtful 
one! 

J.N. 

January,  1904. 


PREFACE   TO   THE   SECOND   EDITION. 

THE  opinion  having  been  very  generally  expressed  that  an 
Index  of  Authors  and  Titles  was  essential  in  a  work  of  refer- 
ence such  as  the  present,  the  author  gladly  avails  himself 
of  the  opportunity  (so  soon  given !)  to  remedy  the  defect  in 
this  respect.  As  regards  the  List  itself,  some  mistakes  of 
spelling,  &c.,  have  been  corrected,  but  no  attempt  has  been 
made  to  add  fresh  examples.  In  the  two  or  three  months 
since  preparation,  very  few  noticeable  historical  romances 
have  appeared ;  should,  however,  the  kind  reception  given 
to  the  little  volume  on  its  first  appearance  be  extended  to 
it  in  this  slightly  enlarged  form — thus  admitting  of  still 
further  revision — every  effort  will  be  made  to  keep  the  List 
as  up-to-date  as  possible. 

Several  of  the  minor  criticisms  which  have  been  passed 
on  the  author's  method  scarcely  call  for  notice,  but  some- 
thing may,  perhaps,  be  said  in  regard  to  two  objections 
which  have  been  made.  Firstly,  a  misunderstanding  seems 
to  have  prevailed  in  certain  quarters  over  the  Suggested 
Courses  of  Reading  (Juvenile).  These  were  drawn  up 
primarily  with  a  view  to  assist  Parents  and  Teachers  who 
might  wish  to  know  of  likely  books  dealing  with  the  various 
English  Reigns;  it  never  occurred  to  the  compiler  that 
such  "  suggested  courses  "  would  be  taken  as  dictating  to 
young  people  what  they  should  read!  Secondly,  it  has 


been  urged  that  the  List  is  too  comprehensive  (though,  it 
should  be  mentioned,  this  very  feature  of  inchtsiveiiess  has 
been  specially  commended  in  other  critical  quarters).  In 
the  early  stages  of  compilation  a  much  more  restricted 
method  was  adopted,  but,  in  deference  to  opinions  ex- 
pressed on  the  part  of  Educational  and  other  authorities, 
besides  a  growing  conviction  on  the  compiler's  own  part, 
the  List  was  greatly  expanded.  It  was  specially  implied 
that  the  term  "  best  "  was  to  be  taken  in  the  sense  of  "best 
available "  for  the  several  sections,  and  the  choice  was 
made  with  a  due  regard  to  varieties  of  taste,  &c.  Certainly 
it  was  nowhere  hinted  (as  one  reviewer  seemed  to  suggest) 
that  writers  like  James,  Ainsworth,  Grant,  &c.,  were  to  be 
classed  among  "  lest  authors  " — indeed,  the  very  contrary 
was  asserted  in  the  Introduction  itself.  To  anyone  calling 
in  question  the  claim  made  for  the  List,  that  it  is  select  and 
something  more  than  a  mere  Catalogue,  at  least  one  very 
simple  test  may  be  suggested ;  let  such  a  sceptical  reader 
compare  the  list  here  offered  with  that  compiled  by  Mr. 
Bowen,  and  he  will  find  that,  of  the  1160  or  so  books  given 
in  the  latter,  not  more  than  about  250  reappear. 

That  the  "  Guide  "  has  proved  of  use  to  some  may  be 
inferred  from  the  fact  that  a  new  edition  is  called  for  within 
so  short  a  time.  It  has  been  stated  in  one  quarter  that  the 
idea  of  the  book  was  praiseworthy  enough,  but  impossible 
to  carry  out ;  may  not  the  old  saying — solvitur  amlulando — 
be,  to  some  extent,  applied  here  ? 

J.N. 

July,  1902. 


xvin. 


INTRODUCTION. 

IT  is  not  proposed,  in  these,  preliminary  remarks,  to  sketch 
in  detail  the  origin  and  growth  of  the  Historical  Novel ; 
this  has  already  been  amply  done  by  Professor  Saintsbury 
and  others.  I  shall  be  content  to  approach  the  subject  on 
its  general  side,  offering,  at  the  same  time,  some  critical 
suggestions  which  will,  I  hope,  not  be  without  value  to 
readers  of  Romance. 

But,  first  of  all,  I  must  explain  how  the  List  which 
follows  came  to  be  compiled,  and  the  object  I  have  in  offer- 
ing it.  For  many  years  I  have  been  an  assiduous  reader 
of  novels  and  tales  in  which  the  historical  element  appeared, 
supplementing  my  own  reading  in  this  direction  by  a  care- 
ful study  of  all  that  I  could  find  in  the  way  of  Criticism  on 
such  works  and  their  writers.  Only  in  this  way  could  I 
venture  on  a  selection  involving  a  survey  of  several 
thousand  volumes !  With  the  above  understanding,  I  can 
say  that  no  book  has  been  inserted  without  some  reason,  while 
I  have  made  all  possible  effort  to  obtain  accuracy  of 
description.  And  this  leads  me  to  remark,  that  just  in  this 
process  of  selection  do  I  claim  originality  for  my  List. 
Nearly  twenty  years  ago  an  excellent  "  Descriptive  Cata- 
logue of  Historical  Novels  and  Tales  "  was  published  ;  Mr. 
H.  Courthope  Bowen  was  the  compiler,*  and  I  would  here 

*  "  A  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Historical  Novels  and  Tales,  for  the  use 
of  School  Libraries  and  Teachers  of  History,"  compiled  and  described  by 
H.  Courthope  Bowen,  M.A.  (Edward  Stanford,  1882  ;  and  Scribner  and 
Welford,  1884.) 

B 


mention  my  indebtedness  to  him.  In  Mr.  Bowen's  list, 
however,  one  finds  good  and  bad  alike — all  the  works  of 
even  such  moderately  endowed  writers  as  G.  P.  R.  James, 
Ainsworth,  Grant,  &c.,  are  there  set  down.  It  seemed  to 
me  that,  not  only  was  there  room  for  a  new  list  of  Histori- 
cal Novels  (Stevenson,  Marion  Crawford,  Conan  Doyle 
Weyman,  Mason,  and  a  number  of  more  or  less  capable 
romancists  having  come  forward  in  the  last  twenty  years), 
but,  also,  that  more  than  ever  was  there  a  need  for  some 
sort  of  clue  in  the  search  for  such  books.  In  the  last  year 
or  two  there  has  been  an  almost  alarming  influx  in  this  de- 
partment of  Fiction,  and  teachers  in  schools,  besides 
readers  in  general,  may  be  glad  to  be  saved  a  somewhat 
tedious  investigation. 

Having  thus  attempted  to  justify  the  existence  of  my 
little  "  Guide,"  I  pass  on  to  deal  with  the  subject  of 
Historical  Fiction  itself.  Most  of  us,  I  suppose,  at  one 
time  or  another  have  experienced  a  thrill  of  interest  when 
some  prominent  personage,  whom  we  knew  well  by  repute, 
came  before  us  in  the  flesh.  We  watched  his  manner,  and 
noted  all  those  shades  of  expression  which,  in  another's 
countenance,  we  should  have  passed  by  unheeded.  Well, 
it  seems  to  me  that,  parallel  with  this  experience,  is  that 
which  we  gain  when,  reading  some  first-rank  romance,  we 
encounter  in  its  pages  a  figure  with  which  History  has 
made  us  more  or  less  familiar.  And  I  would  remark  that 
the  great  masters  do  not,  as  a  rule,  make  that  mistake 
which  less  skilful  writers  fall  into — the  mistake  of  intro- 
ducing well-known  historical  figures  too  frequently.  The 
Cromwell  of  "  Woodstock  "  has  an  element  of  mystery 
about  him,  even  while  he  stands  out  before  our  mental 
vision  hi  bold  relief.  Had  Scott  brought  him  more  pro- 


minently  into  the  plot,  and  thus  emphasized  the  fictional 
aspect  of  his  figure,  our  interest  in  the  story,  as  such, 
might  have  been  sustained,  but  we  should  have  lost  that 
atmosphere  of  vmisemblance  which,  under  a  more  careful 
reserve,  the  hand  of  the  master  has  wrought  for  us. 

But  it  is  not  only  this  introduction  of  personalities  which 
constitutes  a  novel  "  historical"  ;  the  mere  allusion  to  real 
events,  or  the  introduction  of  dates,  may  give  us  sufficient 
ground  for  identifying  the  period  with  which  a  novel  deals. 
Of  course,  the  question  as  to  whether  a  particular  person 
or  event  is  truly  historical,  is  not  always  an  easy  one  to 
answer.     By  the  adaptation  in  it  of  some  purely  mythical 
character  or  event,  a  novel  is  no  more  constituted  "  histori- 
cal "  than  is  a  fairy-tale  by  the  adaptation  of  folk-lore. 
King  Arthur  and  Robin  Hood  are  unhistorical,  and,  if  I 
have  ventured  to  insert  in  my  list  certain  tales  which  deal 
with  the  latter,  it  is  not  on  that  account,  but  because  other 
figures  truly  historical  (e.g.,  Richard  I.)  appear.     As  there 
has  been  some  dispute  on  this  question  of  the  Historical 
Novel  proper,  I  offer  the  following  definition  : — A  Novel  is 
rendered  Historical  by  the  introduction  of  dates,  personages, 
or  events,  to  which  identification  can  be  readily  given.     I 
am  quite  aware  that  certain  well-known  novels  which  give 
the  general  atmosphere  of  a  period — such,    for   example,   as 
Hawthorne's  "  Scarlet  Letter  "  and  Mr.  Hewlett's  "  Forest 
Lovers  " — do  not  come  within  the  scope  of  my  definition  ; 
but  this  is  just  why  I  have  added  a  "  Supplementary  List  " 
of  semi-historical  tales.     And,  while  I  am  alluding  to  this 
"  Supplementary  List,"  I  should  like  to  give  my  reason  for 
omitting  from  it  one   remarkable   book  which   has  every 
claim  to  be  considered  representative  of  the  mid-nineteenth 
century.     Readers  of  "  John  Inglesant  "  may  be  reminded 

B — 2 


that  in  his  interesting  preface  Mr.  Shorthouse  alludes  to 
William  Smith's  philosophical  novel,  "  Thorndale."  As  a 
picture  of  Thought  developments  in  the  early  Victorian 
period,  the  latter  work  has  special  historical  interest  for  the 
philosophical  and  theological  student ;  in  this  respect  it 
may  be  likened  to  Pater's  "  Marius  the  Epicurean,"  which 
vividly  reproduces  the  Intellectual  ferment  of  an  earlier 
age.  "  Thorndale,"  however,  is  primarily  didactic,  and  the 
philosophical  dialogues  (interesting  as  these  are  to  the  meta- 
physician) hardly  atone  to  the  general  reader  for  an  almost 
entire  absence  of  plot.  The  above  is,  doubtless,  an  alto- 
gether extreme  instance,  but  the  exclusion  of  several  other 
works  from  the  category  of  Romance  seems  to  follow  on 
something  like  the  same  grounds.  Becker's  "  Charicles  " 
and  "  Gallus  "  are  little  more  than  school  textbooks,  while, 
turning  to  a  less  scholarly  quarter,  Ainsworth's  "  Preston 
Fight,"  and  even  his  better-known  "  Guy  Fawkes,"  may  be 
cited  as  illustrating  what  Mr.  Shorthouse  means  when  he 
speaks  of  novels  "  in  which  a  small  amount  of  fiction  has 
been  introduced  simply  for  the  purpose  of  relating  History." 
In  all  such  cases  the  average  novel-reader  feels  that  he  has 
been  allured  on  false  pretences.  I  am  well  aware  that  not 
a  few  of  the  books  included  in  my  List  might  be  considered 
to  fall  under  the  same  ban,  but  I  think  it  will  be  found  that 
in  most  of  them  there  is  at  least  a  fair  attempt  to  arouse 
narrative  interest. 

Coming  to  the  List  itself,  it  will  be  noticed  that  I  have 
been  somewhat  sparing  in  the  books  given  under  the  "  Pre- 
Christian  "  heading.  Novels  dealing  with  these  very  far-off 
times  are  apt  to  be  unsatisfactory ;  the  mist  in  which 
events  and  personages  are  enveloped,  takes  away  from  that 
appearance  of  reality  which  is  the  great  charm  of  the  histori- 


cal  novel.  We  are  hardly  concerned,  in  reading  "  Sarche- 
don"  and  similar  books,  to  get  away  from  the  purely 
imaginary  pictures  which  spring  from  the  Novelist's  own 
brain,  and  the  danger  is  that  the  very  elements  which  add 
to  our  interest  in  the  tale  as  such,  will  go  far  to  mislead  us 
in  our  conception  of  the  period  dealt  with.  There  is  none 
of  that  sense  of  familiarity  which  we  enjoy  when  reading  a 
sixteenth  or  seventeeth  century  romance :  in  the  latter 
case,  the  historical  background,  being  easily  perceptible, 
merges  for  us  with  the  creations  of  the  author's  own 
imagination.  Where  the  writer  of  an  "  ancient "  romance 
happens  to  be  a  scholar  like  Ebers,  we  feel  that — so  far  at 
least  as  historical  presentment  goes — we  cannot  be  far 
wrong,  but  the  combination  of  great  scholarship  and  narra- 
tive capacity  is,  alas,  too  rare  ! 

I  have  likewise  refrained  from  giving  many  tales  deal- 
ing with  Early-Christian  times.  We  are  here,  it  must  be 
admitted,  on  controversial  ground,  and  under  the  First 
Century  heading  I  have  endeavoured  to  insert  romances  of 
the  highest  quality  only.  For  instance,  I  think  that  Dr. 
Abbott's  "  Philochristus  "  and  Wallace's  "  Ben  Hur"  ought 
to  satisfy  two  different  types  of  readers.  And  this  is  the 
place,  doubtless,  to  say  that  in  my  lists  will  be  found  books 
of  widely  differing  merit  and  aim.  School  teachers,  and 
others  in  like  capacity,  will  easily  discriminate  between 
authors  suitable  for  juvenile  or  untrained  tastes,  and 
authors  whose  appeal  is  specially  to  those  of  maturer 
thought  and  experience.  Differing  as  much  in  method  and 
style  as  in  choice  of  period  and  character  type,  Thackeray's 
"Vanity  Fair"  and  George  Eliot's  "Romola"  have  at 
least  this  in  common — they  require  a  very  high  degree  of 
intelligence  for  their  due  appreciation.  Who,  among  those 


of  us  with  any  knowledge  of  such  works,  would  dream  of 
recommending  them  to  a  youthful  reader  fresh  from  the 
perusal  of  Miss  Yonge's  "  Little  Duke,"  or  Captain 
Marryatt's  "  Children  of  the  New  Forest "  ? 

Naturally  in  a  list  of  this  kind  there  is  bound  to  be  very 
great  inequality  ;  certain  periods  have  been  wholly  ignored 
by  writers  of  the  first  rank,  while  in  others  we  have 
something  like  an  embarras  de  rickesse.  Consequently,  I  have 
been  compelled,  here  and  there,  to  insert  authors  of  only 
mediocre  merit.  In  other  cases,  again,  I  have  not  hesitated 
to  omit  works  by  writers  of  acknowledged  position  when 
these  have  seemed  below  the  author's  usual  standard,  and 
where  no  gap  had  to  be  filled.  I  would  instance  the 
James  II. — William  III.  period.  Here  Stanley  Weyman 
and  "Edna  Lyall"  might  have  been  represented,  but, 
there  being  no  dearth  of  good  novels  dealing  with  both  the 
above  reigns,  I  did  not  deem  it  advisable  to  call  in  these 
popular  writers  at  the  point  which  has  been  very  generally 
considered  their  lowest.  I  mention  this  to  show  that  omis- 
sions do  not  necessarily  mean  ignorance,  though,  in  cover- 
ing such  an  immense  ground,  I  cannot  doubt  that  romances 
worthy  of  a  place  in  my  list  have  been  overlooked. 

I  think  many  will  be  surprised  to  find  how  large  a  pro- 
portion of  our  best  writers  (English  and  American)  have 
entered  the  domain  of  Historical  or  Semi  -  Historical 
Romance.  Scott,  Thackeray,  Dickens,  George  Eliot, 
Charlotte  Bronte',  George  Meredith,  R.  L.  Stevenson, 
Hawthorne,  Peacock,  Charles  Kingsley,  Henry  Kingsley, 
Charles  Reade,  Anthony  Trollope,  Mrs.  Gaskell,  Walter 
Besant,  Lytton,  Disraeli,  J.  H.  Newman,  J.  A.  Froude,  and 
Walter  Pater — these  are  a  few  of  the  names  which  appear 
in  the  following  pages ;  while  Tolsto)',  Dumas,  Balzac, 


George  Sand,  Victor  Hugo,  De  Vigny,  Prosper  Me"rimee, 
Flaubert,  The"ophile  Gautier,  Freytag,  Scheffel,  Hauff, 
Auerbach,  Manzoni,  Perez  Galdos,  Merejkowski,  Topelius, 
Sienkiewicz,  and  Jokai  are,  perhaps,  the  chief  amongst  those 
representing  Literatures  other  than  our  own. 

"The  Last  Days  of  Pompeii,"  "The  Gladiators," 
"  Hypatia,"  "  Harold,"  "  Ivanhoe,"  "  The  Talisman," 
"  Maid  Marian,"  "  The  Last  of  the  Barons,"  "  Quentin 
Durward,"  " Romola,"  "The  Cloister  and  the  Hearth," 
"  In  the  Palace  of  the  King,"  "  Westward  Ho !,"  "  Kenil- 
worth,"  "  The  Chaplet  of  Pearls,"  "  A  Gentleman  of 
France,"  "  John  Inglesant,"  "  The  Three  Musketeers," 
"Twenty  Years  After,"  "Woodstock,"  "  Peveril  of  the 
Peak,"  "Old  Mortality,"  "The  Betrothed  Lovers "("/ 
Promessi  Sposi"),  "  Lorna  Doone,"  "The  Refugees,"  "In 
the  Golden  Days,"  "  The  Courtship  of  Morrice  Buckler," 
"  Dorothy  Forster,"  "  The  Men  of  the  Moss  Hags," 
"  Esmond,"  "  The  Virginians,"  "  Heart  of  Midlothian," 
"  Waverley,"  "  The  Master  of  Ballantrae,"  "  Kidnapped," 
"  Catriona,"  "  The  Chaplain  of  the  Fleet,"  "  The  Seats  of 
the  Mighty,"  "  Barnaby  Rudge,"  "  A  Tale  of  Two  Cities," 
"  War  and  Peace  " — what  visions  do  these  mere  titles  arouse 
within  many  of  us  !  And,  though  most  of  the  books  given 
in  my  list  cannot  be  described  in  the  same  glowing  terms  as 
the  masterpieces*  just  named,  yet  many  "  nests  of  pleasant 
thoughts  "  may  be  formed  through  their  companionship. 

Hitherto  allusion  has  been  mainly  in  the  direction  of 
modern  authors,  and  I  would  now  say  a  word  or  two  in 
regard  to  those  of  an  earlier  period  who  are  also  represented. 

*  "  Masterpieces,"  that  is,  in  their  several  degrees ;  perhaps  I  was  some- 
what rash  to  invite  the  criticism  that  "Quentin  Durward,"  "  Esmond,"  &c^ 
find  themselves  in  very  unequal  company  ! 


Defoe,  Fielding,  Richardson,  Goldsmith,  Smollett,  Frances 
Burney,  Samuel  Lover,  John  Gait,  Maria  Edgeworth, 
Susan  Ferrier,  William  Godwin,  Mary  Shelley,  Fenimore 
Cooper,  J.  G.  Lockhart,  Leigh  Hunt,  Thomas  Moore, 
Harriet  Martineau,  J.  L.  Motley,  Horace  Smith,  Charles 
Lever,  Meadows  Taylor,  and  William  Carleton — these  (in 
greater  or  less  degree)  notable  names  were  bound  to  have  a 
place ;  and,  coming  to  less  distinguished  writers,  I  may 
mention  the  brothers  Banim,  Gerald  Griffin,  Mrs.  S.  C. 
Hall,  Lady  Morgan,  the  sisters  Porter,  W.  G.  Simms, 
George  Croly,  Albert  Smith,  G.  R.  Gleig,*  W.  H.  Maxwell, 
Sir  Arthur  Helps,  Eliot  Warburton,  Lewis  Wingfield, 
Thomas  Miller,  C.  Macfarlane,  Grace  Aguilar,  Anne  Man- 
ning, and  Emma  Robinson  (author  of  "  Whitefriars").  To 
G.  P.  R.  James,  Harrison  Ainsworth,  and  James  Grant  I 
have  previously  alluded.  It  has  been  my  endeavour  to 
choose  the  best  examples  of  all  the  above-named  novelists 
— a  task  rendered  specially  difficult  in  some  cases  by  the 
fact  of  immense  literary  output.  Doubtless  not  a  few  of 
the  works  so  chosen  are  open  to  criticism,  but  they  will  at 
least  serve  to  illustrate  certain  stages  in  the  growth  of 
Historical  Romance.  With  the  exclusion  of  Mrs.  Radcliffe, 
Mrs.  Marsh,f  Mrs.  Gore,  Lady  Blessington,  Lady  Fullerton, 
Mrs.  Bray,  and  Mrs.  Child,  few  will,  I  imagine,  find  fault ; 
but  writers  like  Miss  Tucker  (A.L.O.E.)  and  Miss  Emily 
Holt  still  find  so  many  readers  in  juvenile  quarters,  that 
it  has  required  a  certain  amount  of  courage  to  place  them 
also  on  my  Index  Expurgatorius  /  Turning  once  again  to 

*  This  author  is  not  represented  in  the  present  (4th)  edition. 

f  Mrs.  Marsh's  "Father  Darcy"  is  now  given  a  place  in  my  List. 
Mrs.  Radcliffe,  Mrs.  Bray,  Miss  Tucker  (A.  L.  O.  E.),  and  Miss  Emily 
Holt,  are  also  represented  more  or  less  fully  (vide  Supplement). 


writers  of  the  sterner  sex,  I  have  ruled  out  *  C.  R.  Maturin, 
G.  W.  M.  Reynolds,  and  Pierce  Egan,  Junr. ;  and  (quitting 
the  "  sensational "  for  the  "  mildly  entertaining  ")  out  of 
the  Rev.  J.  M.  Neale's  many  historical  tales  I  have  selected 
only  one — "  Theodora  Phranza,"  which,  besides  being  well 
written,  has  the  merit  of  dealing  with  a  somewhat  neglected 
period.  Stories  possessing  a  background  of  History  are  to 
be  found  in  "Tales  from  Blackwood,"  as  also  in  "Wilson's 
Tales  of  the  Borders,"  but  their  extremely  slight  character 
seemed  scarcely  to  justify  insertion;  while  not  even  the 
high  literary  position  attained  by  him  on  other  grounds 
reconciled  me  to  either  of  Allan  Cunningham's  novels — 
"  Sir  Michael  Scott  "  and  "  Paul  Jones." 

Of  the  Foreign  novelists  appearing  in  my  list,  several 
have  been  already  named,  but  Marchese  D'Azeglio,  F.  D. 
Guerrazzi,  Cesare  Cantu,  "  W.  Alexis  "  (G.  Haring),  H. 
Laube,  Louise  Mtihlbach  (Klara  M.  Mundt),  Nicolas 
Josika,  Viktor  Rydberg,  Hendrik  Conscience,  Xavier  B. 
Saintine,  Amedee  Achard,  and  "  Erckmann-Chatrian  "  here 
call  for  notice  as  not  coming  under  strictly  contemporary 
classification.  I  would  forestall  the  criticism  that  two 
writers  have  been  passed  over  whose  fame  is  greater  than 
any  of  those  just  mentioned,  viz.,  "  Stendhal  "  (Henri 
Beyle)  and  Alphonse  Dauclet.  Beyle's  "  La  Chartreuse  de 
Parme,"  though  containing  the  oft-praised  account  of 
Waterloo,  is  far  more  Psychological  than  Historical ;  and 
Daudet's  "  Robert  Helmont,"  while  it  depicts  (under  Diary 
form)  certain  aspects  of  the  Franco-German  War,  has 
hardly  any  plot  running  through  it.  As  the  Waterloo  and 

*  C.  R.  Maturin  and  G.  W.  M.  Reynolds  are  now  both  represented  ; 
while  the  selection  from  the  Rev.  J.  M.  Neale's  tales  is  on  a  very  large 
scale  (vide  Supplement). 


10 

Franco-German  War  periods  were  amply  illustrated  in 
numerous  other  novels  of  more  assured  suitability,  I  had 
the  less  hesitation  in  deciding  against  the  two  works  just 
named.  In  the  selection  from  Foreign  Historical  Fiction 
nothing  more  has  been  attempted  than  to  include  the  lead- 
ing examples;  most  of  these,  it  will  be  found,  have  been 
translated  into  English. 

Before  leaving  the  subject  of  older  writers,  it  may  be 
mentioned  that  not  a  few  of  the  works  chosen  to  represent 
them  are,  at  the  moment,  out  of  print.  To  anyone  objecting 
that  something  ought  to  have  been  done  to  indicate  this  in 
each  separate  case,  I  would  urge  that  the  "  out  of  print  " 
line  can  never  be  drawn  with  precision  in  view  of  constant 
reprints  as  well  as  of  further  extinctions. 

Perhaps  this  introduction  may  be  most  fitly  concluded  by 
something  in  the  nature  of  apology  for  Historical  Romance 
itself.  Not  only  has  fault  been  found  with  the  deficiencies 
of  unskilled  authors  in  that  department,  but  the  question 
has  been  asked  by  one  or  two  critics  of  standing — What 
right  has  the  Historical  Novel  to  exist  at  all  ?  More  often 
than  not,  it  is  pointed  out,  the  Romancist  gives  us  a  mass 
of  inaccuracies,  which,  while  they  mislead  the  ignorant  (i.e., 
the  majority),  are  an  unpardonable  offence  to  the  histori- 
cally-minded reader.  Moreover,  the  writer  of  such  Fiction, 
though  he  be  a  Thackeray  or  a  Scott,  cannot  surmount 
barriers  which  are  not  merely  hard  to  scale,  but  absolutely 
impassable.  The  spirit  of  a  period  is  like  the  selfhood  of  a 
human  being — something  that  cannot  be  handed  on  ;  try  as 
we  may,  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  breathe  the  atmosphere 
of  a  bygone  time,  since  all  those  thousand-and-one  details 
which  went  to  the  building  up  of  both  individual  and 
general  experience,  can  never  be  reproduced.  We  con- 


II 

sider  (say)  the  Eighteenth  Century  from  the  purely  Histori- 
cal standpoint,  and,  while  we  do  so,  are  under  no  delusion 
as  to  our  limitations ;  we  know  that  a  few  of  the  leading 
personages  and  events  have  been  brought  before  us  in  a 
more  or  less  disjointed  fashion,  and  are  perfectly  aware 
that  there  is  room  for  much  discrepancy  between  the 
pictures  so  presented  to  us  (be  it  with  immense  skill)  and 
the  actual  facts  as  they  took  place  in  such  and  such  a  year. 
But,  goes  on  the  objector,  in  the  case  of  a  Historical 
Romance  we  allow  ourselves  to  be  hoodwinked,  for,  under 
the  influence  of  a  pseudo-historic  security,  we  seem  to 
Avatch  the  real  sequence  of  events  in  so  far  as  these  affect 
the  characters  in  whom  we  are  interested.  How  we  seem 
to  live  in  those  early  years  of  the  Eighteenth  Century,  as 
we  follow  Henry  Esmond  from  point  to  point,  and  yet,  in 
truth,  we  are  breathing  not  the  atmosphere  of  Addison  and 
Steele,  but  the  atmosphere  created  by  the  brilliant  Nine- 
teenth Century  Novelist,  partly  out  of  his  erudite  concep- 
tion of  a  former  period,  and  partly  out  of  the  emotions  and 
thoughts  engendered  by  that  very  environment  which  was  his 
own,  and  from  which  he  could  not  escape  ! 

Well,  to  all  such  criticisms  it  seems  to  me  there  are 
ample  rejoinders.  In  the  first  place,  it  must  be  remembered 
that  History  itself  possesses  interest  for  us  more  as  the 
unfolding  of  certain  moral  and  mental  developments  than 
as  the  mere  enumeration  of  facts.  Of  course,  I  am  aware 
that  the  ideal  of  the  Historian  is  Truth  utterly  regardless  of 
prejudice  and  inclination,  but,  as  with  all  other  human 
ideals,  this  one  is  never  fully  realised,  and  there  is  ever  that 
discrepancy  between  Fact  and  its  Narration  to  which  I  just 
now  alluded.  This  being  so,  I  would  ask — Is  not  the 
writer  of  Fiction  justified  in  emphasizing  those  elements  of 


12 

History  which  have  a  bearing  on  life  and  character  in 
general  ?  There  is,  doubtless,  a  wise  and  an  unwise  method 
of  procedure.  One  novelist,  in  the  very  effort  to  be 
accurate,  produces  a  work  which — being  neither  History 
nor  Fiction — is  simply  dull ;  while  another,  who  has  gauged 
the  true  relation  between  fact  and  imagination,  knows 
better  than  to  bring  into  prominence  that  which  should 
remain  only  as  a  background.  After  all,  there  are  certain 
root  motives  and  principles  which,  though  they  vary  in- 
definitely in  their  application,  underlie  Human  Conduct, 
and  are  common  to  all  ages  alike.  Given  a  fairly  accurate 
knowledge  as  regards  the  general  history  of  any  period, 
combined  with  some  investigation  into  its  special  manners 
and  customs,  there  is  no  reason  why  a  truly  imaginative 
novelist  should  not  produce  a  work  at  once  satisfying  to 
romantic  and  historical  instincts. 

Again,  if  it  be  true  that  the  novelist  cannot  reproduce 
the  far  past  in  any  strict  sense,  it  is  also  true  that  neither 
can  he  so  reproduce  the  life  and  events  of  yesterday.  That 
power  of  imaginative  memory,  which  all  exercise  in  daily 
experience,  may  be  held  in  very  different  degrees,  but  its 
enjoyment  is  not  dependent  on  accuracy  of  representation — 
for,  were  this  so,  none  of  us  would  possess  it.  In  an 
analogous  manner  the  writer  of  Romance  may  be  more  or 
less  adequately  equipped  on  the  side  of  History  pure  and 
simple,  but  he  need  not  wait  for  that  which  will  never  come 
— the  power  of  reproducing  in  toto  a  past  age.  If,  in  reading 
what  purports  to  be  no  more  than  a  Novel,  the  struggle 
between  Christianity  and  Paganism  (for  example),  or  the 
unbounded  egotism  of  Napoleon,  be  brought  more  vividly 
before  our  minds — and  this  may  be  done  by  suggestion  as 
well  as  by  exact  relation — then,  I  would  maintain,  we  are  to 


13 

some  extent  educated  historically,  using  the  word  in  a  large 
though  perfectly  legitimate  sense. 

I  recently  read  a  work  which  here  presents  itself  as 
admirably  illustrating  my  meaning.  In  her  too  little  known 
"  Adventures  of  a  Goldsmith,"  Miss  M.  H.  Bourchier  has 
contrived  to  bring  forcibly  before  us  the  period  when 
Napoleon,  fast  approaching -the  zenith  of  his  power,  was 
known  in  France  as  the  "  First  Consul."  The  "  man  of 
destiny"  himself — appearing  on  the  scene  for  little  more 
than  a  brief  moment — can  in  no  sense  be  described  as  one 
of  the  book's  characters,  and  yet  the  whole  plot  is  so  skil- 
fully contrived  as  to  hinge  on  his  personality.  We  are 
made  to  feel  the  dominating  influence  of  that  powerful  will 
upon  the  fears  and  hopes  of  a  time  brimming  over  with 
revolutionary  movement.  Whether  the  Chouan  revolt  is 
in  this  particular  story  accurately  depicted  for  us  in  all  its 
phases,  or  whether  the  motives  which  impelled  certain 
public  characters  are  therein  interpreted  aright — both  in 
regard  to  these  and  other  points  there  may  be  room  for 
doubt ;  but  at  least  the  general  forces  of  the  period  are  placed 
before  us  in  such  a  way  as  to  drive  home  the  conviction 
that,  be  the  historical  inaccuracies  of  detail  what  they  may 
in  the  eyes  of  this  or  that  specialist,  the  picture  as  a  whole  is 
one  which,  while  it  rivets  our  attention  as  lovers  of  romance, 
does  no  injury  to  the  strictest  Historic  sense. 

I  know  well  that  numerous  novels  might  be  cited  which, 
besides  abounding  in  anachronisms,  are  harmful  in  that 
they  present  us  with  a  misleading  conception  of  some 
personality  or  period ;  moreover,  I  acknowledge  that  this 
defect  is  by  no  means  confined  to  romances  of  an  inferior 
literary  order.  That  Cromwell  has  been  unreasonably 
vilified,  and  Mary  Queen  of  Scots  misconceived  as  a  saintly 


H 

martyr — how  often  are  these  charges  brought  against  not  a 
few  of  our  leading  exponents  of  Historical  Fiction.     Let 
this  be  fully  granted,  it  remains  to  ask — To  whom  were  our 
novelists   originally  indebted    for    these    misconceptions? 
Were  not  the  historians  of  an  earlier  generation  responsible 
for  these  wrong  judgments  ?     True,  the  real  Science  of 
History — the  sifting  of  evidence,  and  the  discovery  and  un- 
ravelling of  ancient  documents — may  be  described  as  an 
essentially  modern  attainment,  so  it  would  be  unreasonable 
to  blame  our  older  historians  for  errors  which  it  was  largely, 
if  not  wholly,  beyond  their  power  to  overcome.     And  it  is 
just   here   that   I   would   emphasize    my   defence   of    the 
Romancist.     If  Historians  themselves  have  differed  (and 
still  differ !)  may  it  not  be  pleaded  on  behalf  of  the  Histori- 
cal Novelist  that  he  also  must  be  judged  according  to  the 
possibilities  of  his   time  ?     For,  while  he  may  have   too 
readily  adopted  false  conceptions  in  the  past,  there  is  no 
necessity  why,   in  the  future,   he    also — profiting  by   the 
growth   of  Critical   Investigation — should    not    have   due 
regard,  in  the  working  out  of  his  Historical  background,  for 
all  the  latest  "  results."     And,  I  would  further  add,  even 
though  it  be  true  that  Scott  and  others  have  misled  us  in 
certain  directions,  this  does  not  prevent  our  acknowledg- 
ment that,  given  their  aspect  of  a  particular  period,  it  was  only 
fitting  that  the  scheme  of  their  novels  should  be  in  harmony 
with  it.     If  "  bloody  Mary  "  was  a  cruel  hypocrite,  then 
our  reading  of  her  period  will  be  influenced  by  that  real  (or 
supposed)  fact ;  but,  if  further  investigation  reverses  this 
severe  judgment  on  the  woman  herself,  then,  in  Heaven's 
name,  let  us  mould  our  general  conception  afresh.     The 
fountains  of  Romance  show  no  sign  of  running  dry,  and, 
though  we  may  look  in  vain  at  the  moment  for  a  genius  of 


15 

the  very  highest  type,  the  Future  has  possibilities  within  it 
which  the  greatest  literary  pessimist  among  us  cannot 
wholly  deny.  If,  then,  fault  can  be  found  with  the  older 
Romancists  for  the  spreading  here  and  there  of  false  histori- 
cal notions,  let  us  look  to  future  workers  in  the  same  sphere 
for  adjustment.  I  believe,  however,  that  one  notable  critic 
has  pronounced  the  mischief  already  done  to  be  quite 
irreparable,  seeing  that  the  only  "  History  "  at  all  widely 
spread  is  that  derived  from  those  very  romances  in  which 
errors  are  so  interwoven  with  the  sentimental  interest  of 
the  plot  itself  that  readers  inevitably  "  hug  their  delusions !  " 
But  I  think  that  this  danger  need  not  be  contemplated 
seriously.  The  Historical  Novel  exists  primarily  as  Fiction, 
and,  even  though  in  our  waking  moments  we  may  be  per- 
suaded of  the  unreality  of  that  "  dream  "  which  a  Scott  or 
a  Dumas  has  produced  for  us,  we  shall  still  be  able  to  place 
ourselves  again  and  again  under  the  spell  of  their  delightful 
influence.  Moreover,  while  admitting  Dumas'  carelessness 
of  exact  detail,  it  would  hardly  be  contended  by  the  most 
sceptical  that  his  works  (still  less  those  of  Scott)  are  with- 
out any  background  of  Historic  suggestiveness.  Scott, 
indeed,  shows  signs  of  having  possessed  something  of  that 
"  detachment  "  which  is  one  important  qualification  in  the 
Historian  proper ;  there  is  a  fairness  and  prevision  in  his 
historical  judgments  which  we  look  for  in  vain  when  read- 
ing the  works  of  his  contemporaries.* 

*  That  there  was  no  fundamental  antagonism  between  the  Romantic 
and  the  Scientific  Movements  of  last  Century  has  been  shown  by  that  very 
brilliant  American  thinker,  Professor  Josiah  Royce,  of  Harvard  University. 
"The  very  spirit,"  he  writes,  "that  in  Great  Britain  expressed  itself  in 
Scott's  romances,  once  wedded  to  the  minuteness  of  German  scholarship, 
was  destined  to  transform  the  whole  study  of  history."  ( The  Spirit  of 
Modern  Philosophy,  page  279.) 


i6 

And,  having  thus  touched  on  what  I  believe  to  be  the 
true  relation  between  Fomance  and  History,  I  may  note, 
as  a  last  word,  the  use  of  the  Historical  Tale  to  those  who 
have  the  training  of  young  folk.  That  "  desire  to  know," 
which  is  an  essential  for  all  true  learning,  is  sometimes 
best  fostered  by  methods  outside  the  ordinary  School 
routine.  Thus,  as  regards  History,  where  the  text-book 
fails  in  arousing  interest,  the  tale  may  succeed,  and,  once 
the  spirit  of  inquiry  has  been  stimulated,  half  the  battle  is 
gained.  In  saying  this,  I  am  far  from  wishing  to  imply 
that  the  reading  of  romances  can  ever  take  the  place  of 
genuine  historical  study.  I  know  well  that  such  a  book  as 
Green's  "  Short  History  of  the  English  People  "  may  prove 
to  some  more  fascinating  than  any  novel.  There  are,  how- 
ever, cases  in  which  recourse  may  be  had  to  a  high-class 
work  of  fiction  for  the  attainment  of  a  truer  historic  sense  ; 
while,  taken  only  as  stipplcment  to  more  strictly  Academic 
reading,  such  a  work  may  prove  to  have  its  uses.  Con- 
siderable discrimination  is  required — as  I  have  already 
hinted — in  the  choice  of  suitable  books,  and,  as  a  help  in 
this  direction,  I  have  made  out  (vide  "  Suggested  Courses  of 
Reading")  two  special  lists  for  Boys  and  Girls  respectively, 
which  will,  I  trust,  be  found  useful.*  If,  besides  being  of 
help  to  teachers,  my  recommendations  should  lead  in  any 
degree  to  further  appreciation  of  the  great  masters  of 
Romance,  the  labour  (by  no  means  inconsiderable)  expended 
on  this  little  compilation  will  be  amply  rewarded. 

*  These  two  Juvenile  lists  have  now  (4th  edition)  been  amalgamated. 

J.  N. 
January,  1902. 


GENERAL    LIST. 


"  Epitomes  are  not  narratives,  as  skeletons  are  not  human 
figures.  Thus  records  of  prime  truths  remain  a  dead  letter  to 
plain  folk  ;  the  writers  have  left  so  much  to  the  imagination,  and 
imagination  is  so  rare  a  gift.  Here,  then,  the  writer  of  fiction  may 
be  of  use  to  the  public — as  an  interpreter." 

Charles  Reade,  in  "  The  Cloister  and  the  Hearth." 

"  The  picturesqueness  of  history  is  largely  due  to  memoirs ; 
and  the  countries  and  epochs  which  have  produced  them  are 
especially  picturesque.  Now  it  is  great  crises,  periods  of  disrup- 
tion, great  emergencies,  which  as  a  rule  impress  contemporaries 
and  furnish  matter  for  close  observation.  .  .  .  The  Great 
Rebellion  and  the  French  Revolution  have  furnished  endless 
motives  to  dramatists,  novelists,  and  painters,  because  they  suggest 
possibilities  of  striking  contrasts,  and  afford  available  situations. 
The  human  interest  is  then  most  intense,  and  our  sympathies  are 
most  easily  awakened." — Dr.  Mandell  Creighton,  on  "  The  Pic- 
ttiresque  in  History?  in  Historical  Lectures  and  Addresses. 


ERRATA. 

Several  important  alterations  have  been  (Fourth  Edition)  embodied  in 
the  text  of  the  older  lists,  but  the  following  errors  of  description  still 
remain  to  be  noted. 

Page  24. — Crake's  The  Camp  on  the  Severn  is  wrongly  placed  under  Third 
Century :  this  tale  depicts  Roman  Britain,  A.D.  303-304. 
St.  Alban  (as  martyr)  appears  in  the  first  chapter,  and  the 
Emperor  Constantius  in  the  last. 

Page  41. — James  Baker's  The  Gleaming  Dawn  deals  as  much  with  England 
as  with  Bohemia  :  the  first  half  of  the  book  depicts  Lincoln- 
shire and  Oxford,  1396-1415,  while  in  the  second  half  the 
reader  is  taken  to  Prague,  etc.,  in  the  twelve  years  or  so  after 
the  burning  of  Huss. 

Page  42. — Cancel  the  description  of  Baker's  The  Cardinafs  Page,  and 
substitute  the  following :  Begins  England,  1427,  but  deals 
almost  entirely  with  Bohemia  in  the  years  1427-30 ;  time  of 
Cardinal  Beaufort's  crusade  against  the  Hussites. 

Page  77. — In  the  description  of  S.  C.  Grier's  In  Furthest  2nd,  the  date 
"  1697 "  is  misleading ;  as  the  half-title  sets  forth,  this 
"narrative"  claims  to  have  been  "written  in  1697  "  by  one 
who  had  previously  been  "of  the  Hon.  East  India  Co.'s 
service,"  and  the  book  as  a  whole  covers  the  period  1664-97. 

Page  114. — Cancel  the  description  of  Lytton's  The  Parisians,  and  substi- 
tute the  following  :  Mainly  Paris  just  before  and  during  the 
war,  from  the  spring  of  1869  to  the  end  of  1870,  The  last 
pages  carry  the  reader  to  the  autumn  of  1871. 


NOTE. — The  order  in  which  tlte  looks  are  placed  is,  on  the  -whole,  according  to  the 
periods  dealt  -with  ;  occasionally  the  grouping  decided  on  has  prevented  absolute 
correctness  in  this  respect.  Books  of  special  -worth  are  marked  with  an  asterisk. 


PRE-CHRISTIAN    ERA. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*SARCHEDON 


*THE  KING'S  TREASURE 
HOUSE 

*THE  PHARAOH  AND 
THE  PRIEST  (FAR- 
AON) 


*AN   EGYPTIAN   PRIN- 
CESS 


G.  J.  Whyte  Melville 

(W.  Thacker  &  Co.  ; 
Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.; 
and  Longmans  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.  ; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Wilhelm  Walloth  (trans.) 
(W.S.Gottsberger,U.S.A.) 

A.  Glovatski  (trans.) 

(Sampson    Low    &    Co. ; 
and  Little,  Brown, U.S.  A.) 


Miss  L.  McLaws 

(Constable  &  Co. ;  and 
Lothrop  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Ancient  Babylon  and  the  As- 
syrians. 


Egypt 


under     Rameses     IT. 
(Thebes,  Syria,  &c.). 


Ditto     (Israelites) 


Egypt— Rameses  XIII.  (Strug- 
gle between  the  Secular  and 
Ecclesiastical  forces,  nth 
Century  B.C.) 

Ahab  and  Jezebel. 


Egypt  and  Persia  in  the  days 
of  Amasis  and  Cambyses, 
6th  Century  B.C. 


a  One  of  several  novels  founded  on  more  or  less  dim  Old  Testament  characters  and  episodes.  As 
historical  romances,  such  works  are  almost  inevitably  unsatisfying  ;  as  fiction,  some  of  them  are 
interesting  and  veil  written.  1  may  here  specify,  among  recent  productions  of  this  kind,  "  Helshazzar," 
by  W.  S.  Davis  (Grant  Richards  ;  and  Doubleday,  U.S.A.),  and  "  Jair  the  Apostate,"  by  A.  G.  Halts 
(Methuen  &  Co.) ;  the  last-named  deals  with  Samson. 

C — 2 


20 


PRE-CHRISTIAN   ERA— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  FALL  OF  ATHENS 
(CALLIAS) 

GORGO 


A     YOUNG      MACE- 
DONIAN 


TYCHIADES 

*SALAMMB6 

KALLISTRATUS 
THE  LION'S  BROOD 

LORDS  OF  THE  WORLD 
THE  SISTERS 

THE  HAMMER 
DEBORAH 


HELON'S  PILGRIMAGE 
TO  JERUSALEM 


A.  J.  Church 

(Seeley&Co. ;  and  Jacobs 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  K.  Gaines 
(Lothrop  Publishing  Co.> 
U.S.A.) 

A.  J.  Church 
(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  G.  P. 
Putnam's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Alfred  Dickeson 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Gustave  Flaubert  (trans.) 
(Grant  Richards;  and  G.P. 
Putnam's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

A.  H.  Gilkes 

(Longmans  &  Co.) 

Duffield  Osborne 

(W.  Heinemann  ;  and 
Doubleday  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

A.  J.  Church 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner'sSons,  U.S.A.) 

George  Ebers  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.  ; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

A.  J.  Church  and  R.  Seeley 

(Seeley  &  Co  ;    and  G.  P. 

Putnam's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

J.  M.  Ludlow 

(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.  ;  and  F. 
H.  Revell  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Strauss  (trans.) 
(J.  Mawman,  London,  1824) 


Peloponnesian     War     Period 
(Alcibiades) 


Ditto 


(Socrates  and 
Alcibiades) 


Alexander  the  Great. 


Alexandria  in  its  early  growth 
under  the  Ptolemies  (3rd 
Century  B.C.). 

Hamilcar  (Carthage  and  her 
Mercenaries). 


The  Second  Punic  War. 
Hannibal  (Battle  of  Cannae). 

Fall  of  Carthage  and  Corinth. 


Egypt  (Memphis)  —  Ptolemy 
Philometer  and  Euergetes 
(2nd  Century  B.C.) 


Maccabsean  Times. 


Ditto 


ditto. 


Judaism  in  the  Century  pre- 
ceding Christ. 


21 


PRE-CHRISTIAN    ERA— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*PRUSIAS 


Two  THOUSANDYEARS 
AGO 


WOE    TO    THE    CON- 
QUERED 

*A  FRIEND  OF  CESAR 
CLEOPATRA 


Ernst  Eckstein  (trans.) 
(W.S.  Gottsberger,U.S.A.) 

A.  J.  Church 
(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Alfred  Clark 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

W.  S.  Davis 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.  ; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


The  Slave  Revolt  under  Spar- 
tacus. 

Rome — Spartacus  and  Mithri- 
dates. 


Roman  Life,  B.C.  73 — 71. 
Pompey  and  Coesar. 
Latter  Years  of  Cleopatra, 


FIRST    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

*NE^.RA 

John  W.  Graham 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Rome  under  Tiberius  (A.D.  26). 

*  PHILOCHRISTUS 

Dr.  Edwin  A.  Abbott 
(Macmillan  &  Co) 

Memoirs    of    a    Disciple     of 
Christ. 

*BEN  HUR 

Lew  Wallace 
(Harper  &  Brothers,  and 
others) 

Rome  in  the  time  of  Christ. 

TARRY  THOU  TILL  I 
COME  (SALATHIEL) 

G.  Croly 
(Funk  &  Wagnalls  Co.) 

Judaism  and  Christianity  (the 
early  struggle). 

22 


FIRST   CENTURY— continued. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


As  OTHERS  SAW  HIM 


THE  BRITON 

*ONESIMUS 
"Quo  VADIS? 

*NERO 

THE     BURNING      OF 
ROME 

*  EMPRESS  OCTAVIA(OK- 
TAVIA) 

ACTE 

DARKNESS  AND  DAWN 


*THE   LAST   DAYS  OF 
POMPEII 


"THE  GLADIATORS 


PEARL  MAIDEN 


Anonymous 

^W.  Heinemann,  1895  ; 
and  Houghton,  Mifllin 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner'sSons,  U.S  A.) 

Dr.  Edwin  A.  Abbott 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

H.  Sienkiewicz  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,   &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Ernst  Eckstein  (trans.) 
(W.S.  Gottsberger.U.S.A.) 

A.  J.  Church 

(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

Wilhelm  Walloth  (trans.) 
(Little,    Brown,    &    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Hugh  Westbury 
(Bentley) 

Dean  Farrar 

(Longmans,  Green  &  Co.) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  T.  Whyte  Melville 

(W.  Thacker  &  Co.; 
Ward,  Lock,&  Co.;  and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Rider  Haggard 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 


Early  Christianity  (A.D.  54). 

Roman  invasion  of  Britain 
(Boadicea),  and  Rome  under 
Nero. 

Memoirs  of  a  Disciple  of  Paul. 
Rome  in  the  time  of  Nero. 

Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto        ditto. 

Ditto        ditto. 

Ditto        ditto. 
Persecutions  under  Nero. 
Time  of  Vespasian. 

Fall  of  Jerusalem. 
Ditto        ditto. 


a  There  are  so  few  good  tales  illustrating  the  Roman  period  of  our  Island  History  that  I  would  draw 
the  attention  of  readers  to  a  short  story  in  Chambers'  Magazine  (Christmas  Number,  1903)  entitled 
"  lyvinda,"  by  E.  Lester  Arnold  ;  it  depicts  Agricola's  defeat  of  the  Caledonians,  A.D.  86. 


FIRST   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

DOMITIA 

S.  Baring-Gould 
(Methuen    &    Co.  ;     and 
F.A.  Stokes  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Time  of  Domitian. 

MASTERS      OF      THE 
WORLD 

Mary  A.  M.  Hoppus 
(Bentley,  1888) 

Ditto        ditto. 

*QUINTUS  CLAUDIUS 

Ernst  Eckstein  (trans.) 
(W.S.  Gottsberger,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto        ditto. 

AMOR  VICTOR 

Orr  Kenyon 
(Stokes  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ephesus  and  Rome,  A.D  95  — 
105. 

SECOND    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


VALERIUS 
To  THE  LIONS 

*ANTINOUS 

*THE  EMPEROR 

NARCISSUS 


J.  G.  Lockhart 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 

A.  J.  Church 

(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  G.  P. 
Putnam's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

George  Taylor  (trans.) 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ; 
and  \V.  S.  Gottsberger, 
U.S.A.) 

Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 

(D.  Appleton&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  Boyd  Carpenter 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 


Time  of  Trajan  (Rome) 


Christians    and    the     Younger 
Pliny. 


Time  of  Hadrian. 


Ditto        ditto. 


Christians     about     A.D.     160 
(Athens,  Alexandria,  Rome, 

&c.). 


24 

SECOND   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

*  MARIOS  THE   EPICU- 
REAN 

ONE  TRAVELLER.  RE- 
TURNS 

W.  Pater 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

D.     Christie     Murray    and 
Henry  Herman 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Time  of  Marcus  Aurelius. 

Britain    (Dee    District),     mid 
Second  Century. 

THIRD    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


PER  ASPERA 
PERPETUA 


THE   CAMP   ON    THE 
SEVERN 

•CALLISTA 


a  THE  EPICUREAN 


Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 
(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

S.  Baring-Gould 

(Isbister  &  Co. ;  and  Dut- 
ton  &  Co.,  U.S.A. 

A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray  &  Co.) 

J.  H.  Newman 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Thomas  Moore 

(Downey  &  Co. ;  and  Mc- 
Clurg  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Alexandria  in  time  of  Emperor 
Caracalla. 

Nlmes  —  beginning    of    Third 
Century. 


Persecution  in  Britain. 
North  Africa  Persecutions. 
Worship  of  Isis  (Egypt) 


a  This  tale,  it  must  b«  admitted,  is  given  a  place  mainly  on  account  of  its  literary  interest;  as 
historical  romance  it  has  been  very  severely  criticised. 


25 

THIRD   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

AURELIAN 

*THE  LAST  DAYS  AND 
FALL  OF  PALMYRA 
(ZENOBIA) 

W.  Ware 
(Warne  &  Co.  ;  and  Estes 
and  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  Ware 
(Cassell  &  Co.,  "  Red  Li- 
brary," 1890)  ;  and  A. 
L.  Burt  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Rome  —  late  Third  Century. 
Zenobia  and  Longinus. 

FOURTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•HOMO  SUM 


OUR     FOREFATHERS 
(DIE  AHNEN) 


*A    CAPTIVE   OF    THE 
ROMAN    EAGLES 

(BlSSULA) 


*THE  LAST  ATHENIAN 


Christians  in  Arabia,  A  D.  330. 


Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.  ; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Gustav  Freytag  (trans.)  Germany,  A.D.  357. 

Asher  &  Co.,  1873  ;  and 
Holt  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Felix  Dahn  (trans.) 

(A.   C.   McClurg  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


V.  Rydberg  (trans.) 
(T.      B.      Peterson    and 
Brothers,  Philadelphia) 


Romans  and  Germans  (Ale- 
manni)  in  the  Lake  Con- 
stance district,  A.D.  378  (the 
poet  Ausonius). 

Athens,  A.D.  361. 


a  The  collective  title  of  a  series  in  which  the  history  of  a  family  is  made  to  illustrate  successive 
stages  of  German  civilisation.  The  English  translation  does_  not  extend  beyond  the  first  two  stories, 
dealing  with  the  years  357  and  724  respectively ;  the  remaining  four  stories  (published  by  Hirzel.  of 
Leipsic,  1874—80),  depict  German  life  in  1226,  1519,  1647,  and  1805. 


26 


FOURTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a*THE  DEATH  OF  THE  I  D.  M6rejkowski  (trans.) 
GODS  (Constable  &    Co.  ;    and 

G.  P.   Putnam's   Sons, 
U.S.A.) 


JETTA 

SERAPIS 
SANCTA  PAULA 

A  DUKE  OF  BRITAIN 


THE  VILLA  OF  CLAU- 
DIUS 


George  Taylor  (trans. ) 
(Triibner  &    Co.,    1886; 
and     George      Munro, 
U.S.A.) 

Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 
(Appleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  Copland  Perry 
(Sonnenschein  &  Co.) 


Sir  Herbert  Maxwell 
(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 

E.  L.  Cutts 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 


The  Emperor  Julian. 


Heidelberg  under  the  Romans. 


Alexandria,  A.D.  391  (Time  of 
Theodosius  I.). 

Roman  Society  and  the  Chris- 
tian Church  in  time  of  Je- 
rome (362-403). 

Picts  and  Romans. 


Roman  occupation  of  Britain — 
late  Fourth  Century. 


a  No.  i  of  the  trilogy,  "Christ  and  Anti-Christ"  ;  the  second  volume  in  the  series  appears  in  the 
Fifteenth  Century  section  (late) ;  the  third — dealing  with  Peter  the  Great — also  appears  in  its  section. 


FIFTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


GATHERING  CLOUDS 


CONQUERING  AND  TO 
CONQUER 


Chrysostom  (late  Fourth — early 


Dean  Farrar 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.)  j      Fifth  Century). 

Mrs.  Charles  j  Jerome,  ditto. 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Dodd,  Mead,  £  Co. , 
U.S.A.) 


FIFTH    CENTURY— 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


FABIOLA(THE  CHURCH 
IN  THE  CATACOMBS) 


'IlYPATIA 


THE  COUNT  OF  THE 

SAXON  SHORE 


ATTILA 


fl'FELICITAS 


Cardinal  Wiseman 

(Burns,  1855 ;  and  Ben- 
ziger  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Kings!  ey 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

A.    J.    Church    and    Ruth 
Putnam 

(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and 
G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Warned-  Co.) 

Felix  Dahn  (trans.) 

(Macmillan  &  Co. ;  and 
A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Rome,  early  Fifth  Century. 


Alexandria,  ditto. 


Departure    of    Romans     from 
Britain. 


Decline  of  Roman  Empire. 


The  German  Migrations,  A.D. 
476. 


(S 

Sixth. 


a  The  first  volume  of  the  series— Kleine  Roniane  aits  der  Volkerwanderung ;  the  second  volume 
'isxnla)  is  given  under  the  Fourth  Century,  while  the  third  volume  (f^elimer)  will  be  found  under  the 
ah. 


SIXTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

BUILDERS      OF     THE 
WASTE 

*THE  SCARLET  BANNER 
(GELIMER) 

Thorpe  Forrest 
(Duckworth  &  Co.) 

Felix  Dahn  (trans.) 
(A.  C.  McClurg  &   Co., 

U.S.A.) 

Britons  v.  Anglians  in  York- 
shire. 

Overthrow  of  the  Vandal  King 
Gelimer  by  Belisarius,  A.D. 
533-4- 

28 


SIXTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*A    STRUGGLE    FOR 
ROME    (Der   Kampf 
urn  Rom) 

ANTONINA 


HAVELOK  THE  DANE 
SHAVEN  CROWN 


Felix  Dahn  (trans.) 
(R.  Bentley,  1878) 


Wilkie  Collins 
(Chatto  &  Windus  ;  and 
Harper&Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

C.  W.  Whistler 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

M.  Bramston 
(Society    for     Promoting 
Christian    Knowledge ; 
and  E.  &  J.  B.  Young, 
U.S.A.) 


The  Ostrogoths  and  Belisarius. 


Rome  in  546. 


Denmark  and  England. 


Conversion  of  the  Surrey  Bor- 
der (time  of  Ethelbert). 


SEVENTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  SON  OF 


A  SCHOLAR  OF   LIN- 

DISFARNE 


C^EDWALLA 


THE    BRIDE   OF  THE 

NILE 


Conversion    of     Northumbria 
(616-25). 


Gertrude  Hollis 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

I 

Gertrude  Hollis  Time  of  St.  Aidan  (636-51). 

(Society     for     Promoting  j 
Christian    Knowledge  ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Cowper  Saxons  in  the  Isle  of  Wight. 

(Seeley  &  Co.) 

Georg  Ebers  (trans.)  Egypt,  A.D.  643. 

(Appleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


29 

a  EIGHTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

MNNALS  OF  AN  ANGLO- 
SAXON  FAMILY  (Part 
III.) 

THE  INVASION 

Mrs.  Charles 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons  ;  and 
Dodd,  U.S.A.) 

G.  Griffin 
(Saunders  &  Otley,  Lon- 
don, 1832  ;  and  Duffy, 
Dublin,  1861) 

St.  Boniface. 

Ireland  and  Northern  Europe 
in  second  half  of  the  Eighth 
Century. 

a  The  second  tale  in  Freytag's  "  Our  Forefathers "  (vide  Fourth  Century  section)  illustrates  the 
Germany  of  A.D.  724. 

6  One  of  the  stories  in  the  semi-fictional  "  Sketches  of  Christian  Life  in  the  Olden  Time  "  (in 
America  the  volume  appeared  under  the  title  of  "  The  Early  Dawn  ").  The  story  is  very  slight,  and  is 
only  given  here  as  one  of  the  very  few  attempts  to  illustrate  this  particular  period. 


NINTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a*  PASSE  ROSE 


A  THANE  OF  WESSEX 


THEWOOINGOFOSYTH 


KING'S  SONS 


A.  S.  Hardy 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  &Co., 
U.S.A.) 

C.  W.  Whistler 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Kate  T.  Sizer 

(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  Manville  Fenn 

(E.  Nister  ;  and  Dutton  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Time    of    Charlemagne    (Ar- 
dennes district). 


Ethelwulf(mid  Ninth  Century). 


Edmund  the  Martyr. 


Alfred  and  his  times. 


a  Perhaps  the  most  serious  omission  in  my  original  list.  I  have  to  thank  the  American  reviewer  who 
brought  this  charming  tale  to  my  notice  ;  having  just  read  it  with  immense  enjoyment,  I  can  bear  special 
testimony  in  its  favour. 

b  A  very  slight  but  charming  story  of  Alfred's  boyhood,  specially  suited  for  the  very  young. 


NINTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE,  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

IN  ALFRED'S  DAYS 

UNDER    THE    BLACK 
RAVEN 

(Paul  Creswick 
(E.  Nister;   and  Dutton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

e 
Alfred  and  his  times.     (Danes 
in  VVessex  and  Abroad). 

HASTINGS  THE  PIRATE 

•GOD    SAVE    KING 
ALFRED 

E.  Gilliat 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto         (Edward     Atheling, 
Siege  of  Rochester,£c.  ). 

THE  DRAGON  AND  THE 
RAVEN 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto     (Saxon  and  Dane). 

*KING    ALFRED'S    VI- 
KING 

C.  W.  Whistler 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto        (First  English  Fleet). 

A  HERO  KING 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Partridge  &  Co.) 

Ditto     (as  Prince  and  King  ; 
Winchester,  the  Danes,  £c.  ) 

A  LION  OF  WESSEX 

Tom  Bevan 
(Partridge  &  Co.) 

Ditto     (Saxon  and  Dane). 

KORMAK   THE  VlKING 

J.  F.  Hodgetts,  R.N. 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 

Ditto     (France,  England,  £c). 

TENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

•ERLING  THE  BOLD 
•THE  LITTLE  DOKE 

R.  M.  Ballantyne 
(J.     Nisbet;     and     Burt, 
U.S.A.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Norway  —  the     Vikings     (early 
Tenth  Century). 

Normandy  —  Richard  the  Fear- 
less. 

31 


TENTH    CENTURY- continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*EKKEIIARD 


«*THORSTEIN    OF  THE 
MERE 

ED\VY  THE  FAIR 


THE  SINS  OF  A  SAINT 


"THEOPHANO 


THE  VIKINGS  OF  THE 
BALTIC 

*THE  THRALL  OF  LEIF 
THE  LUCKY 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Scheffel  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.  ; 
and  Crowell  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

W.  G.  Collingvvood 
(E.  Arnold; 

A.  D.  Crake 

Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.  ; 
and  E.  &  J.  B.  Young, 
U.S.A.) 

J.  R.  Aitken 

(Sonnenschein  &  Co. ;  and 
Appleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Frederic  Harrison 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


G.  W.  Dasent 

(Chapman  &  Hall,  1875) 

Ottilie  A.  Liljencrantz 
(A.  C.   McClurg   &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Germany — The  Huns,  £c. 

Northmen  in  Lakeland  (about 
Britain — D  unstan. 

Ditto        ditto. 


The  Byzantine  Empire  and  the 
Saracens  in  mid  Tenth  Cen- 
tury (Nicephorus  Phocas,  &c.) 

The  Vikings — last  quarter  of 
Tenth  Century. 

The  Vikings  (Greenland). 


a  This  well-written  book  was   purposely  omitted   in  my  former   editions,  not  being  considered 
"  Fiction "  proper.    As,  however,  there  are  so  few  tales  dealing  with  the  period,  I  now  venture  to 


ELEVENTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

OLAF  THE  GLORIOUS 

Robert  Leighton 
(Blackie  &    Son;   and  C 
Scribner'sSons,U.S.A.) 

Russia  and  Norway. 

ELEVENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THK  FALL  OF  ASGARD 


HAROLD  THE  NORSE- 
MAN 

KING  OLAF'S  KINSMAN 


WULFRIC  THE  WEAPON 
THANE 


*ALFGAR  THE  DANE 


*THE  WARD  OF  KING 
CANUTE 


•HAROLD 


WILLIAM    THE    CON-  j 
QUEROR 

WULF  THE  SAXON 


THE  CAMP  OF  REFUGE 

•HEREWARD  THE  WAKE 
THE  RIVAL  HEIRS 


Julian  Corbett 

(Macmillan  &  Co. ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Whishaw 
(Nelson  &  Sons) 

C.  W.  Whistler 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

C.  W.  Whistler 
(Blackie  &  Son;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

A.  D.  Crake 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ; 
and  E.  &  J.  B.  Young, 
U.S.A.) 

Ottilie  A.  Liljencrantz 
(A.  C.   McClurg   &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Lytton 

(George  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Sir  Charles  Napier 

(George  Routledge,  1858) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.; 

C.  Macfarlane 

(Constable  &  Co;  and 
Longmans&Co.,U.S.A.) 

Charles  Kingsley 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

A.  D.  Crake 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ; 
and  E.  &  J.  B.  Young, 
U.S.A.) 


St.  Olaf  s  Days. 


Harold  "  Haardraada  "  (Battle 
of  Stamford  Bridge,  &c.) 

Ethelred  the    Unready   (Dane 
and  Saxon). 

Edmund    Ironside    (Danes    in 
East  Anglia). 


Ditto  (Danes  in  Wessex — Ca- 
nute). 


Edmund  Ironside  and  Canute. 


The  Norman  Conquest  (Harold 
—William  I.  Battle  of  Has- 
tings). 


Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto        ditto. 


The  Norman  Conquest  (Here- 
ward,  1070). 


Ditto        ditto. 

Ditto     (1066 — 71,  and  1099). 


33 


ELEVENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  SIEGE  OF  NOR- 
WICH CASTLE 


RUFUS,  OR  THE  RED 
KING. 

IN  THE  DAYS  OF  ST. 
ANSELM 


COUNT     ROBERT    OF 
PARIS 


*GOD  WILLS  IT 


M.  M.  Blake 

(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Gregor  Grant 
(Saunders,  1838) 

Gertrude  Hollis 
(Society    for     Promoting 
Christian    Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  S.  Davis 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


The  Norman  Conquest  (1073 — 
96). 


William  II. 
Ditto. 


First  Crusade  (Constantinople, 
1098). 


Ditto  (Palermo,  Sicily,  Au- 
vergne,  and  Syria — Godfrey 
de  Bouillon,  &c.). 


TWELFTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

PABO  THE  PRIEST 

S.  Baring-Gould 
(Methuen  &  Co.  ;  and  F.  A. 
Stokes  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Time  of  Henry  I.  (Wales). 

*THE  SERF 

C.  Ranger  Gull 
(Greening  &  Co.) 

First    Revolt   against    Serfdom 
(Stephen). 

FOR    KING    on    EM- 
PRESS? 

C.  W.  Whistler 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Civil  War  between  Stephen  and 
Matilda  (Somerset  and  Nor- 
wich). 

THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE 
GOLDEN  CHAIN 

R.  D.  Chetwode 
(C.  A.  Pearson  ;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Period  of  Stephen. 

34 


TWELFTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


A  LEGEND  OF  READ- 
ING ABBEY 


*VIA  CRUCIS 
FOREST  OUTLAWS 

*THE  BETROTHED 

*DER  HEILIGK 
*!N  His  NAMB 

*  HOHENZOLLERN 
*MAID  MARIAN 


*THE  LIFE  AND  DEATH 
OF  RICHARD  YEA- 
AND-NAY 

•THE  TALISMAN 


*THE  ASSASSINS 


•IVAN HOE 


IN  LINCOLN  GREEN 


C.  Macfarlane 

(Constable   &    Co. ;    and 
Longmans&  Co., U.S.A.) 

F.  Marion  Crawford 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

E.  Gilliat 

(Seeley&  Co. ;  and  Button 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

C.  F.  Meyer 

(Haessel,  Leipsic) 

E.  Everett  Hale 
(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Cyrus  T.  Brady 
(Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Thomas  Love  Peacock 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Maurice  Hewlett 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Nevill  M.  Meakin 
(W.  Heinemann ;  and  Holt 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Gilliat 

(Seeley  &Co. ;  and  Button 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Period  of  Stephen. 


Second  Crusade. 


Henry  II.    (Hugh  of  Lincoln, 
1 1 86). 


Ditto  (Wales,  iiS;). 


Thomas  a  Becket. 


The  Waldenses  (Lyons  in  time 
of  Pierre  Waldo). 


Black  Forest  in  time  of  Emperor 
Frederick  I.  ("Barbarossa"). 

Henry  II.— Richard  I.  (Robin 
Hood). 

Richard  as    Prince   and    King 
(Europe  and  the  East). 


Richard  I.  (Syria,  1191). 


Bitto    (Siege  of  Acre). 


Ditto    (Yorkshire  and   Leices- 
tershire, 1194). 


Ditto    (Robin  Hood). 


35 


THIRTEENTH   CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


ROYSTON  GOWER 
UNCANONIZED 


RUNNYMEDE  AND  LIN- 
COLN FAIR 


SPURS  AND  BRIDE 


WOLF'S  HEAD 


WALDF.MAR 


THE  CASTLE  OF  EH- 
RENSTEIN 

THE    MOST    FAMOUS 
LOBA 


'PHILIP  AUGUSTUS 


LA    BATTAGLIA    m 
BENEVENTO 


*THE    LORD    OF   THE 
DARK  RED  STAR 

THE  BLUE  BANNER 


Thomas  Miller 
(Colburn,  1838) 

Margaret  H.  Potter 
(A.    C.   McClurg  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

J.  G.  Edgar 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co  ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Gertrude  Hollis 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge) 

E.  Gilliat 

(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Button 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

B.  S.  Ingemann  (trans.) 
(Saunders  &  Otley,  1841) 

G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

N.  K.  Blisset 

(Win.  Blackwood  &  Sons  ; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.SA.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

F.  D.  Guerrazzi 
(Guiseppc  Maspero,  Milan. 

1829) 

E.  Lee  Hamilton 
(W.  Scott) 

Leon  Cahun  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  £  Co  ;  and 
Lippincott&Co.,U.S  A.) 


Time  of  John  (Papal  Interdict). 
Ditto     (English  Monastic  Life). 

Ditto    (the  Charter). 
Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto    (Robin  Hood). 
Denmark,  1204. 


Germany  (robber  knights),  be- 
ginning of  1 3th  Century. 

Persecution  of  the  Albigenses — 
Carcassonne. 


France,  late  Twelfth  to  early 
Thirteenth  Century  (Struggle 
with  John  of  England). 

Italy — period  of  Emperor  Fred- 
erick II. 


Ditto     (Ezzelino). 


Period  of  Crusades  and  the 
Mongol  Conquest,  1194-1254. 
(Mongolia,  Turkestan,  and 
Syria). 


D— 2 


36 
THIRTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*'IS"EATH  THE  HOOF  OF 
THE  TARTAR  ;  OR, 
THE  SCOURGE  OF 
GOD 

THE   ROBBER  BARON 
OF  BEDFORD  CASTLE 

A    STOUT    ENGLISH 
BOWMAN 

How  I  WON  My  SPURS 


*A  CLERK  OF  OXFORD 
THE  FOREST  PRINCE 
•FOREST  DAYS 

*THE  THIRSTY  SWORD 


*THE  PRINCE  AND  THE 
PAGE 

•CHRISTINA 


•THE  KING'S  REEVE 


Baron  Nicolas  Josika  (trans. ) 
(Jarrold  &  Sons) 


A.  J.  Foster  and  E.  E.  Cnthell 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

E.  Pickering 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

J.  G.  Edgar 

(Ward,  Lock,  &Co.;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,U.S.  A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Bryan  W.  Ward 

(Digby,  Long,  &  Co.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

Robert  Leighton 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons, U.S.  A.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Emily  Underdown 
(Sonnenschein  &  Co.) 


E.  Gilliat 

(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Button 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Hungary — the  Tartar  Invasion. 


Period  of  Henry  HI.  (1224— 
27) 

Ditto    (Hampshire  and  France). 


A    boy's    adventures    in    the 
Barons'  Wars. 


Oxford,  Kenilworth,  &c.  (Battle 
of  Lewes,  1264). 

Prince  Edward,  Simon  de  Mont- 
fort,  &c. 

Henry   III.  and   De  Montfort 
(Robin  Hood). 


Norse    Invasion    of    Scotland, 
1262—63. 


Eighth  Crusade. 

Italy  (Siena,  &c.)  in  the  period 
of  Dante's  infancy.  Battle 
of  Tagliacozzo,  1268  (Con- 
radin  of  Swabia). 

Time  of  Edward  I.  (Welsh 
Wars,  &c.). 


37 


THIRTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

THE  LORD  OF  DYNE- 
OVER 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Time  of  Edward  I.  (Welsh 
Wars,  &c.) 

MY  LADY  JOANNA 

E.  Everett  Green 
(J.  Nisbet&Co.) 

Ditto        ditto. 

•THE    SAINT   OF  THE 
DRAGON'S  DALE 

W.  S.  Davis 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Germany  in  time  of  the  sup- 
pression of  the  robber  knights 
by  Rudolf  I. 

FOURTEENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  LION  OF  FLAN- 
DERS 


IN  FREEDOM'S  CAUSE 


THE  SCOTTISH  CHIEFS 


CASTLE  DANGEROUS 


THE  DAYS  OF  BRUCE 


THK    CHEVALIER    OF 
THE    SPLENDID 
CREST 


H.  Conscience  (trans. )  Flanders,    1298—1302    (Battle 

(Burns    &     Gates ;     and        of  Courtrai). 
Murphy,  U.S.A.) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.  S.A. ) 


Wallace  and  Bruce  (from  end 
1 3th  Century). 


Jane  Porter  j  Wallace  (Scotland,  France,  and 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  and  I      England,  1296—1314). 
Appleton£Co.,U.S.A.)  ' 


Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Scotch    Wars    (Ayrshire    and 
Lanarkshire,  1306). 


Grace  Aguilar  j  Edward  I. — II.(Bannockburn). 

(Warne  &  Co.  ;  Appleton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.  ;  and 
others) 

Sir  Herbert  Maxwell  Ditto        ditto. 

(W.  Black  wood  &  Sons) 


FOURTEENTH   CENTURY—  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•THE  WHISTLING  MAID 
*VALPERGA 

MARCO  VISCONTI 


MARGHERITA    Pus- 
TERLA 


*RlENZI 


IN  THE  SHADOW  OF 
THE  CROWN 


COUNTESS  ALYS 
(in  "New  Canterbury 
Tales  ") 


E.  Rhys 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 

Mary  Shelley 

(Whittaker,  1823) 


T.  Grossi  (trans.) 

(Geo.  Bell  &  Sons,  Bohn's 
Series,  1881  ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Cesare  Cantu 

(Felice  Le  Monnier,  Flor- 
ence, 1839) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

M.  Bidder 
(Constable  &  Co.) 

Maurice  Hewlett 
(Constable    &   Co.  ;    and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 


IN     THE     DAYS     or    E.  Everett  Green 
CHIVALRY  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


ST.  GEORGE  FOR  ENG- 
LAND 


CRECY  AND  POICTIERS 


G.  A.  Ilenty 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

J.  G.  Edgar 

(Ward,  Lock,  and  Co.  ; 
and  Harper  &  Bros., 
U.S.A.) 


THE  CROSS  OF  PEARLS    Mrs.  C.  Bearne 
(Elliot  Stock) 


Wales  in  time  of  Edward  II. 


Castruccio  Castracani,  Duke  of 
Lucca  (Guelphs  and  Ghibel- 
lines). 

Milan  and  Lake  Como  District 
from  1329  (Guelphs  and 
Ghibellines). 


Milan  about  1340. 


Rome    (Cola    di    Rienzi,    the 
Tribune). 


Edward  II.— Edward  III. 
Period  of  Edward  III. 

Ditto  (Cre9y  and  Poictiers). 
Ditto        ditto. 

Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto        ditto. 


a  Mr.  Hewlett's  volume  ought  not  to  be  described  (I  have  seen  it  so  in  one  quarter)  as  dealing  with 
the  time  of  Henry  VI.  The  "tales"  are  supposed  to  be  told  in  1450  by  Pilgrims  on  their  way  to 
Canterbury. 


39 


FOURTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

*THE    GATHERING    OF 
BROTHER  HILARIUS 

Michael  Fnirless 
(J.   Murray  ;    and  Button 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Period  of  Edward  III.   (Great 
Pestilence,  about  1348  — 
So). 

*THE  LANCES  OF  LYN- 

WOOD 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto  (Black  Prince  in  Spain). 

AGENOR  DE  MAULEON 

Dumas  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto        ditto. 

<£•*.. 

*THE  WHITE  COMPANY 

Conan  Dovle 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.  ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto    (Hampshire,    Bordeaux. 
Pyrenees,     &c.  —  Black 
Prince,  Du  Guesclin,  and 
Chandos). 

GOD,  THE  KING,  MY 
BROTHER 

Mary  F.  Nixon  Roulet 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.  ;  and 
L.C.  Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto    (Spain). 

GOD  SAVE  ENGLAND 

F.  Breton 
(Grant  Richards) 

Ditto    (Winchelsea  and  Rye). 

*ERIC  THE  ARCHER 

Maurice  H.  Hervey 
(Edward  Arnold) 

Sir  John  Chandos,  &c.  (Eng- 
land, France,  and  Spain). 

THE  JACQUERIE 

G.  P.  R.  James 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

France  in  time  of  the  Hundred 
Years  War  and  Jacquerie. 

IN   CHAUCER'S   MAY- 
TIME 

Emily  Richings 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

England  in  the  days  of  Chaucer 
the  poet. 

"LONG  WILL 

Florence  Converse 
(Longmans  &   Co.  ;   and 
Houston,    Mifflin,    & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Richard    II.,    Will    Langland, 
Chaucer,  Wat  Tyler,  and  the 
Peasant  Revolt  leaders. 

*THE  BANNER  OF  ST. 
GEORGE 

M.  Bramston 
(Duckworth  &  Co.) 

Peasant  Revolt  (Herts  and  Es- 
sex—John Ball,  &c.). 

'ROBERT  ANNYS,  POOR 
PRIEST 

Annie  N.  Meyer 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto  (Ely,  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 
&c.—  John  Ball). 

JOHN  STANDISH 

E.  Gilliat 
(Seeley   &  Co.  ;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (Kent—  Wat  Tyler,  Chau- 
cer, &c.). 

4o 
FOURTEENTH    CENTURA -continued. 


TITLE   OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


A  MARCH  ON  LONDON 


A  TURBULENT  TOWN 


OTTERBOURNE 


KATE    CAMERON    OF 
BRUX 

*A  MAN-AT-ARMS 


•THE  LION  OF  ST.  MARK 


"KNIGHTSOFTHF.CROSS 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

E.  N.  Hoare 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge  ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Anonymous 

(R.  Bentley,  1832) 

J.  E.  Muddock 

(Digby,  Long,  &  Co.) 

Clinton  Scollard, 

(E.  Nash;  and  L.C.  Page 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Sienkiewicz  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  Sands 
&    Co.  ;      and    Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


England  (Peasant  Revolt),  and 
Flanders  (Philip  Van  Arte- 
velde). 

Flanders  (Ghent,  &c.)— Philip 
Van  Artevelde,  1380  to  Battle 
of  Rosebecque. 

Battle  of  Otterbourne,  1388. 


Aberdeen  and  Braemar  district, 
end  of  I4th  Century. 

Milan — Gian  Galeazzo  Visconti. 


Venice,  late  Fourteenth  Century. 


Poland— the  Teutonic  Knights. 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE   FAIR    MAID  OF 
PERTH 


OLD  MARGARET 


Scott  |  Perthshire,  1402. 

(A.    &    C.    Black ;    and 
Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Henry  Kingsley 

(Ward.  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans  &  Co., U.S.A.) 


Ghent,  in  early  Fifteentli  Cen- 
tury. 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY—  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•THE  GLEAMING  DAWN 


ISABELLA  ORSINI 


BOTH  SIDES  OF  THE 
BORDER 


J.  Baker 

(Chapman  &  Hall) 

F.  D.  Guerrazzt 

(Felice  le  Monnier,  Flor- 
ence, 1844) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


CAMBRIA'S  CHIEFTAIN  i  E.  Everett  Green 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


*EVERY  INCH  A  KING  '•  Josephine  C.  Sawyer 

;     (Dodd,Mead,&Co., U.S.A.) 

I 

IN    THE    DAYS    OF     \  H.  Elrington 
PRINCE  HAL  (Blackie  &  Son) 


A  CHAMPION  OF  THE  ;  J.  M.  Callwell 
FAITH.  (Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 

Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


CORONATION 


*THE  CAGED  LION 


AGINCOURT 


AT  AGINCOURT 


Bernard  Hamilton 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


G.  P.  R.  James 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons: 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


•WHEN    SPURS    WERE  '  Russell  Gamier 
GOLD  (George  Allen) 

BY  WEEPING  CROSS     ;  Lady  Laura  Ridding 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


The  Hussites  (Bohemia). 
Italy — the  Medici. 


Period  of  Henry  IV.  (Struggles 
on  the  Welsh  and  Scotch 
Borders). 

Owen  Glendower  (Battle  of 
Shrewsbury,  &c.) 

Prince  Hal. 


Henry  IV.— Henry  V.  (Lynd- 
hurst  District  and  Win- 
chester). 

Ditto  (Sir  John  Oldcastle). 


Ditto  (Agincourt). 


James  I.  of  Scotland,  and  Henry 
V.  of  England  (James's  Cap- 
tivity). 

Henry  V. 


Ditto. 

Ditto  (Catherine  of  France,  &c.). 
Southern  Fiance,  1424. 


42 


FIFTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


PERSONAL  RECOLLEC- 
TIONS OF  JOAN  OF 

ARC,  BY  THE   SlEUR 
LOUIS   DE   CONTE 

A     NOBLE     PURPOSE 
NOBLY  WON 


*A  MONK  OF  FIFE 


NOEMI 


THE     BEAUFOY     RO- 
MANCES 


*ST.    CLAIR    OF    THK 
ISLES 


*  BLACK  DOUGLAS 


THE  CAPTAIN  OF  THE 
GUARD 


*FRA  LIPPO  LIP  PI 
*THE  CARDINAL'S  PAGE 
*THEODORA  PHRANZA 

THE  PRINCE  OF  INDIA 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


Mark  Twain  i  Joan  of  Arc. 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;    and  i 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.  A.): 


Miss  Manning 

(Arthur    Hall,  Virtue,    &  : 
Co.,  1862). 

;>.  .•    ;  iv  -  I 

A.  Lang 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ) 

S.  Baring-Gould 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  Ap-  j 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.)    j 

Hamilton  Drummond 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
L.C.  Page  &  Co., U.S.A.) 

Elizabeth  Helme 
(F.   Warne   &   Co.;    and  | 
Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons)  j 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Doubleday&Co.,U.S.A.)  \ 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Guienne— Time  of  Charles  VII. 


France  :    Charles  VII. — Henri 
IV. 


James  Grant 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 


Margaret  Vere  Farrington 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

J.  Baker 

(Chapman  &  Hall) 

J.  M.  Neale 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Lew  Wallace 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 


Hebrides  (Island  of  Barra)  and 
Stirling,  &c.,  in  James  I. — II. 
period  (Border  War,  1448). 

William,  6th  Earl  of  Douglas, 
1439,  &c. — Galloway,  Stirling, 
Edinburgh,  and  Brittany  (De 
Rete). 

Edinburgh,  Galloway,  and  Flan- 
ders (House  of  Douglas,  1440 
to  about  1450). 

Italy  (Lippi  the  Painter),  early 
to  mid  Fifteenth  Century. 

Bohemia,  middle  of  Fifteenth 
Century. 

Fall  of  Constantinople,  1453. 


Ditto. 


43 


FIFTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*  CAPTAIN  OF  THE  JANI- 
ZARIES 

Two  PENNILESS  PRIN- 
CESSES 


GRISLY  GRISSELL 


*THE  BLACK  ARROW 


*How  DICKON  CAME 
BY  His  NAME  (in 
"The  Deserter  and 
other  Stories  ") 

*WHERE  AVON  INTO 
SEVERN  FLOWS  (in 
"  The  Deserter  and 
other  Stories  ") 

IN  THE  WARS  OF  THE 
ROSES 

*THE  LAST  OF  THE 
BARONS 


WHITE  WYVILL  AND 
RED  RUTHVEN 

THE  CHANTREY  PRIEST 
OF  BARNET 


FOR  THE  RED  ROSE 


RED  ROSE  AND  WHITE 


J.  M.  Ludlow 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan&Co.) 


Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


R.  L.  Stevenson 

(Cassell  &   Co.;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Harold  Frederic 

(Lothrop  Publishing  Co.) 


Fall  of  Constantinople  (1443 — 
56). 

Scotland,  England,  and  France 
in  time  of  Henry  VI.  (Sisters 
of  James  II.  of  Scotland). 

Wars  of  the  Roses.  (1467 — 
The  Kingmaker,  Charles 
the  Bold,  &c.) 

Ditto  (Richard  of  Gloster). 


Ditto        ditto. 


Harold  Frederic  :  Ditto  (Tewkesbury). 

(Lothrop  Publishing  Co.)   j 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 

(E.  Nister) 

A.  J.  Church 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Blackie  &.  Son) 

Alfred  Armitage 
(J.  Macqueen) 


Ditto  (Prince  Edward,  son  of 
Henry  VI.). 

Ditto  (Edward  IV.  and  Warwick 
the  Kingmaker). 


Ditto  (period  generally). 


Ditto         ditto. 


Margaret  of  Anjou. 


Time  of  Richard  III.  (London, 
Wales,  &c.— Brecknock 
Castle). 


44 


FIFTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  WOODMAN 


PERKIN  WARBECK 


THE  CAPTAIN  OF  THE 
WIGHT 


WILD    HUMPHRY 
KYNASTON 

*THE  YELLOW  FRIGATE 
*MARY  OF  BURGUNDY 


*THE    DOVE    IN    THE 
EAGLE'S  NEST 

*TIIE  BURGOMASTER  OF 
BERLIN 


*QUENTIN  DURWARD 
•ANNE  OF  GEIERSTEIN 
IF  I  WERE  KING 
•MARIETTA 

*ROMOLA 


G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routlcdge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

Mary  Shelley 
(Colburn  &  Bentley,  1830) 

F.  Cowper 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  E.  & 
J.  B.  Young,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Hudson 

(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co.) 

James  Grant 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
and  Wariie  &  Co.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Wilibald  Alexis  (trans.) 
(Saunders  &  Otley,  Lon- 
don, 1843) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(W.  Heinemann;  and  R.H. 
Russell,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Marion  Crawford 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

George  Eliot 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 
and  Crowell  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 


Time  of  Richard  III.  (Battle 
of  Bosworth). 


Richard  III.— Henry  VIL 


Time    of   Henry   VII.   (Caris- 
brooke). 


Ditto  (Shrewsbury). 


Dundee,  &c.,  1488  (J  ames  III. 
of  Scotland). 

Ghent  (1456—1477). 


Time  of  Maximilian   (1472  — 


Germany,  late  Fifteenth  Cen- 
tury. 


France  and  Flanders,  1468 — 
Louis  XL 


Charles  the  Bold,  Margaret  of 
Anjou,  &c.  (Switzerland, 
Germany,  and  France,  1474). 

Fran9ois  Villon. 


Venice,  1470. 
Florence — Savonarola. 


45 


FIFTEENTH    CENTURY— contintud. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•NOTRE  DAME 


*THE    CLOISTER    AND 
THE  HEARTH 


«*THE    RESURRECTION 
OF  THE  GODS 


THE    CONSTABLE    OF 
ST.  NICHOLAS 

*THE  VALE  OF  CEDARS 


THE  BLACK  Disc 


LEILA 


£  COLUMBIA 


Victor  Hugo  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Charles  Reade 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co.. 
U.S.A.) 

D.  Merejkowski  (trans.) 
(Constable    &    Co.;    and 

G.   P.   Putnam's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

E.  Lester  Arnold 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Grace  Aguilar 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  and 
Jewish  Publication  So- 
ciety of  America.) 

Albert  Lee 

(Digby,  Long,  &  Co.) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  &  Co. , 
U.S.A.) 

Gordon  Stables 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner's Sons,  U.S.A.) 

John  R.  Musick 

(Funk  &  Wagnalls  Co.) 


Paris,  late  Fifteenth  Century. 


Eve  of  the  Reformation  (Parents 
of  Erasmus) ;  Flanders,  Bur- 
gundy, Germany,  and  Italy. 


Leonardo  da  Vinci,  1494 — I5I9- 


Siege  of  Rhodes. 


Jewish  Persecution  in  Spain. 


Conquest  of  Granada. 


Ditto. 


Christopher  Columbus,  1492. 


Discovery  of  America  (Columbus 
before  and  after,  to  1493). 


a  The  title  in  the  original  Russian,  but  the  English  publishers  have  adopted  The  Forerunner,  and 
the  American,  The  Romance  of  Leonardo  da  Vinci. 


b  The  first  of  a  Series  ("  Columbian   Historical   Novels ")  of  thirteen  complete  juvenile  stones 
depicting  the  various  stages  of  American  history  down  to  modern  times. 


46 
SIXTEENTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  HEIR  OF    HAS- 
COMBE  HALL 


*THE    HONOUR    OF 
SAVELLI 


*VALENTINO 


*THE  CHALLENGE  OF 
BARLETTA 

*THE  MAID  OF  FLO- 
RENCE (NiccoLd  DE' 
LAPI) 

*TRUE  HEART 


IN  THE  BLUE  PIKE 


*Dm  HOSEN  DES  HERRN 
VON  BREDOW 

*CHRONICLES  OF  THE 
SCHONBERG  COTTA 
FAMILY 


NOT  FOR  CROWN  OR 
SCEPTRE 

KARINB 


•LIGHTEN  STEIN 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  cS:  Sons) 


S.  Levett  Yeats 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ; 
and  Applet  on  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

William  Waldorf  Astor 
(Fisher   Unwin;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons) 

M.  D'Azeglio  (trans.) 
(W.  H.  Allen  &  Co.,  1880) 

M.  D'Azeglio  (trans.) 
(R.  Bentley,  1853) 


F.  Breton 
(Grant  Richards) 

Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

W.  Alexis 
(Janke,  Berlin) 

Mrs.  Charles 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

D.  Alcock 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 

Wilhelm  Jensen  (trans.) 
(A.   C.  McClurg  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

W.  Hauff  (trans.) 
(E.  Nister  ;  and  Dutton  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Later  period   of   Henry   VII. 
(Henry  VIII.  as   Prince   of 
Wales);    South  of  England 
and  London. 

Italy — the  Borgias. 


Ditto      ditto. 

Gonsalvo  di  Cordova,  &c. 
Florence,  1529 — 1530. 


Switzerland,    1514-25    (Eras- 
mus, &c.) 

Germany — time  of  Maximilian. 


The  Reformation  Period. 
Luther  and  His  Family. 


Reformation  in  Sweden  (Gus- 
tavus  Vasa) 

Time  of  Gustavus  Vasa. 


Germany,    Early     Sixteenth 
Century. 


47 


SIXTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR   AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


IN  THE  OLDEN  TIME 


IN  THE  KING'S  FAVOR 


THE  BRAES  OF  YARROW 


*A  PRINCE  OF  GOOD 
FELLOWS 


MARY  OF  LORRAINE 
BY    RIGHT   OF   CON-  ' 

QUEST 

THE  FAIR  GOD 


MONTEZUMA'S  DAUGH- 
TER 

THE   SPOILS  OF  EM- 
PIRE 

THE  INCA'S  RANSOM 


THE  VIRGIN  OF  THE 

SUN 

*THE   HOUSEHOLD  OF 
SIR  THOMAS  MORE 


THE    ARMOURER'S 
'PRENTICES 


Miss  Roberts 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.  ; 
and  Holt&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  E.  Muddock 
(J. 


C.  Gibbon 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;   and 
Harper  &Bros.,U.S.  A.) 

Robert  Barr 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;   and 
McClure,  U.S.A.) 

James  Grant 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Lew  Wallace 

(Warne  &  Co.;  and  Hough- 
ton,  Mifflin.&Co.U.S.A.) 

R.  Rider  Haggard 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.  ) 

Francis  N.  Thorpe 

(Little,    Brown,    &    Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Albert  Lee 

(Partridge    &    Co.  ;    and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

George  Griffith 
(C.  A.  Pearson) 

Miss  Manning 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Germany,  the  Peasants'  War. 


James  IV.  of  Scotland,  in  the 
last  months  of  his  reign, 
ending  Flodden,  1513. 

James  V.  of  Scotland  (just  after 
Flodden) ;  the  Queen  Regent, 
the  Boy  King,  and  the  Earl 
of  Angus,  1513-1514. 

Adventures  of  James  V.  (Scot- 
land). 


Battle  of  Pinkie,  1547. 
Conquest  of  Mexico. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 


Spain  &  Mexico  (Montezuma's 
daughter). 

Conquest  of  Peru. 


Ditto. 


Period  of  Henry  VIII.  (More, 
Erasmus,  &c.,  in  Chelsea, 
1522-35). 


Ditto  (early  years  of  reign,  up 
to  Fall  of  VVolsey). 


48 


SIXTEENTH   CBNTURY~<mrfim«*. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


MY  FRIEND  ANNE 


DEFENDER    OF    THE 
FAITH 

•WINDSOR  CASTLE 


THE  HOUSE  OF  THE 
WIZARD 


HENRY  VIII.  AND  His 
COURT;  OR,  CATHE- 
RINE PARR 

TONFORD  MANOR 


WHEN    KNIGHTHOOD 
WAS  IN  FLOWER 


THE  WHITE  QUEEN 
*DARNLBY 

WESTMINSTER  ABBEY 

ROBERT  ASKE 

LIKE  A  RASEN  FIDDLER 


UNDER  BAYARD'S  BAN- 
NER 


Jessie  Armstrong 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

Frank  Mathew 
(John  Lane) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
Gibbings    &    Co.;    and 
Lippincott&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

M.  Imlay  Taylor 

(Gay  &  Bird ;  and  McClurg 
&  Co.,  U.S. A.) 

Louise  Miihlbach  (trans.) 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 


S.  Hancock 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


E.  Caskoden 

(Sands  &  Co. ;  and  Bowen- 
Merrill  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Russell  Gamier 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 

(Routledge  &  Sons ;  and 
Warne  &  Co.) 

Emma  Robinson 
(Routledge  &  Sons) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(S.  W.  Partridge  &  Co.) 

Mary  E.  Shipley 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Henry  Frith 
(Cassell&Co.) 


Period  of  Henry  VIII.  (Anne 
Boleyn). 

Ditto  (Anne  Boleyn  and  Wol- 
sey). 

Ditto  (Wolsey,   Anne  Boleyn, 
and  Jane  Seymour). 


Ditto  (Thomas  Cromwell,  &c.) 


Ditto  (1543  to  death  of  Henry). 


Canterbury  in  early  years  of 
Henry  VIII.  (Eve  of  Refor- 
mation). 

Duke  of  Suffolk  and  Mary 
Tudor. 


Ditto. 


Time  of  Wolsey  (Field  of  the 
Cloth  of  Gold,  &c.) 


Wolsey,  Cranmer,  &c.,  1527. 


Tyndale,  Cardinal  de  la  Pole, 
&c.  (Reformation). 

Destruction  of  the  Monasteries, 
1536  (Lincolnshire). 


Chevalier  de  Bayard  (Battle  of 
Ravenna,  &c.). 


49 


SIXTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


JOHN    OF    STRATH- 
BOURNE 


ASCANIO 
MARGUERITE  DE  Ro- 

BERVAL 

UNDER  THE  ROSE 
ST.  LEON 


*THE  MASTER  MOSAIC 
WORKERS 


«THE  DUKE'S  PAGE  ; 
OR,  IN  THE  DAYS 
OF  LUTHER 

BARBARA  BLOMBERG 


*ROYAL  FAVOUR 


*THE  PRINCE  AND  THE 
PAUPER 


THE  MAID  OF  LONDON 
BRIDGE 

SEETHING  DAYS 


R.  D.  Chetwode 

(C.  A.  Pearson ;  and  Ap- 
pleton&Co.,  U.S.A.; 

Dumas  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

T.  G.  Marquis 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

Frederic  S.  Isham 
(Bobbs-Merrill  Co.  .U.S.A.) 

William  Godwin 

(G.   G.    &  J.   Robinson, 
London,  1799) 

George  Sand  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Sarah  M.  S.  Clarke 
(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.) 


Georg  Ebers  (trans.) 
(Sampson  Low  £  Co.;  and 
Appleton&  Co.,U.S.A.) 

A.  S.  C.  Wallis  (trans.) 
(Sonnenschein  &  Co.) 

Mark  Twain 

(Chatto  &  Windus ;    and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  Gibney 

(Jarrold  &  Sons) 

Caroline  C.  Holroyd 
(A.  D.  Innes  &  Co.) 


Period  of   Francis   I.    (France 
and  Italy,  1520). 


Ditto  (Benvenuto  Cellini,  1540). 

Ditto  (Exploration  of  Canada). 
Ditto  (Court  and  Adventure). 
Battle  of  Pavia,  1525. 

Venice  in  time  of  Tintoretto 


Duke  Maurice  of  Saxony, 
Charles  V.,  Luther,  &c., 
»S39  to  1553- 

Charles  V.  and  the  Protestants 
from  1546  (Ratisbon). 


Time  of  Melancthon  and  Eric 
XIV.  of  Sweden. 

Edward    VI.   (as    Prince    and 
King). 


Ditto  (Kelt's  Rebellion). 


Edward  VI. — Mary  period. 


a  Really  "  from  the  German,"  though  the  latest  English  edition  has  "  S.  M.  S.  Clarke  "  alone  on  the 
title-page.  The  book  being  generally  described  as  her  production,  I  have  thought  it  best  to  place  that 
lady's  name  against  it. 


SIXTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•THE  COLLOQUIES  OF 
EDWARD  OSBORNE 


*THE  TOWER  OF  LON- 
DON 


"THE  ROYAL  SISTERS 


A   QUEEN    OF   NINE 
DAYS 

LEST  WE  FORGET 


I  CROWN  THEE  KING 


•THE  MISCHIEF  OF  A 
GLOVE 

THE  STORY  OF  FRAN- 
CIS CLUDDB 

•LYSBETH 


JAN  VAN  ELSELO 


THE  MASTER  BEGGARS 


THE  BEGGARS 


Miss  Manning 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
Gibbings&  Co. ;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Frank  Mathew 
(J.  Long) 

Edith  C.  Kenyon 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 

Joseph  Hocking 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co. ;  and 
Advance  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Max  Pemberton 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Mrs.  Philip  C.  de  Crespigny 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

Stanley  Weyman 
(Cassell  &  Co.) 

H.  Rider  Haggard 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Gilbert  and  Marian  Coleridge 
(Macmillan&Co.) 


L.  Cope  Cornford 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Lippincott&Co.,U.S.A.) 

J.  B.  de  Liefde 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.  A.) 


Edward  VI. — Mary  period. 


Ditto  (Lady  Jane  Grey). 


Ditto  (Mary  and  Elizabeth). 


Lady  Jane  Grey. 


Period  of  Mary. 


Wyatt's    Attack    on     London 
(Sherwood  Forest). 

Adventure  in  the  time  of  Mary. 


England  (Mary)  and  the  Nether- 
lands. 

The  Netherlands  (Leyden,  Haar- 
lem, &c.,  1554—74)- 

Ditto  (Philip  II.  of  Spain- 
Holland,  Spain,  France, 
and  England,  1559 — 73). 

Ditto  (Alva— Brussels,  &c., 
1568—70). 


Ditto  (Brussels,  &c.,  1568—72 ) 


SIXTEENTH    CENTURY—  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*BEGGARS  OF  THE  SEA 
MY  LADY  OF  ORANGE 
*!N  TROUBLED  TIMES 


FOR    FAITH    AND 
FATHERLAND 


BY  PIKE  AND  DYKE 


BY  ENGLAND'S  AID 


A    WOMAN    AND    A 
CREED 

*L'ANNEE  DBS  MER- 
VEILLES  (!N'T  WON- 
DERJAER) 

THE    BURGOMASTER'S 
WIFE 

SHUT  IN 


THE    SPANISH    BRO- 
THERS 

IN  FAIR  GRANADA 


*!N   THE    PALACE    OF 

THE  KING 

THE  TRAITOR'S  WAY 


Tom  Bevan 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

H.  C.  Bailey 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

A.  S.  C.  Wallis  (trans.) 
(Sonnenschein  &  Co.) 

M.  Bramston 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  cS:  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Garton  Sargent 
(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 

Hendrik  Conscience 
(C.  Levy,  Paris) 

Geore;  Ebers  (trans.) 

(Macmillan  &  Co.;  and 
Appleton  &  Co., U.S. A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

D.  Alcock 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

E.  Everett  Green 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

F.  Marion  Crawford 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

S.  Levett  Yeats 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.; 
and  F.  A.  Stokes  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


The  Netherlands  (1572  onwards 
— Defence  of  Haarlem). 

Ditto   (Prince  of  Orange  and 
Alva). 

Ditto   (Brussels,   &c.,  in  1574 
and  after). 

Ditto  (later  years  of  Prince  of 
Orange,  1576—84). 


Ditto  (Siege  of  Haarlem,  Ley- 
den,  and  Antwerp.) 

Ditto  (Overthrow  of  Spain — 
Surprise  of  Breda,  &c.,  1585 — 
1604). 

Bergen,  1565. 


Flemish   Struggle  with   Spain, 
1566. 

Siege  of  Leyden,  1574. 


Siege  of  Antwerp,  1585. 

Spain — the  Inquisition  (Seville 
in  IS59). 

Spain— Time  of  Philip  II. 

Ditto        ditto. 

France — Conspiracy  of  Amboise. 


E — 2 


52 

SIXTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  Two  DIANAS 


THE    PAGE    OF    THE 
DUKE  OF  SAVOY 


THE  BRIGAND 


UNDER    CALVIN'S 
SPELL 


KLYTIA 


*  ABOUT    CATHERINE 
DE'  MEDICI 


A  CARDINAL  AND  His 
CONSCIENCE 


*FOR  THE  RELIGION 
*A  MAN  OF  His  AGE 


"A  CHRONICLE  OF  THE 
REIGN  OF  CHARLES 
IX. 

•MARGUERITE    DB 
VALOIS 


*THE  HOUSE  OF  THE 
WOLF 


Dumas  (trans.) 
(J.  M.   Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Dumas  (trans). 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

D.  Alcock 

(Religious  Tract  Society  ; 
and  Revell  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

George  Taylor  (trans.) 
(Sampson    Low    &    Co.; 
and  W.  S.  Gottsberger, 
U.S.A.) 

Balzac  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Graham  Hope 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.) 

Hamilton  Drummond 
(Smith,    Elder,    &   Co.; 
Ward,    Lock,   &  Co.; 
and   Harper  &  Bros., 
U.S.  A.) 

Prosper  Merimee  (trans.) 
(J.  C.  Nimmo,  1890  ;  and 
Cassell  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Weyman 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 


Henri  II.  of  France. 


Ditto  (Netherlands). 


Ditto  (Diane  de  Poitiers,  &c.). 


Geneva  in  Calvin's  time. 


Germany — Erastus. 


Catherine  de'  Medici  and  her 
Policy. 


The    Guises   and    the    French 
Religious  Wars. 

Coligny    and    the    Huguenots 
(France  and  Florida). 


France — St.  Bartholomew. 


Ditto    ditto. 


Ditto    ditto. 


53 


SIXTEENTH    CENTURY -continued. 


TITLE   OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


"COUNT  HANNIBAL 


•THE    CHAPLET    OF 
PEARLS 

*CRICHTON 


*LA   DAME   DE  MON- 

SOREAU 


•THE  FORTY  FIVE 


AN    ENEMY   TO   THE 
KING 


*A    GENTLEMAN    OF 

FRANCE 

THE   KING'S  HENCH- 
MAN 

UNDER  THE  SPELL  OF 
THE  FLEUR  DE  Lis 

A  KING'S  PAWN 


CHEVALIER  D'AURIAC 


THE    HELMET    OF 


Stanley  Weyman 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
Gibbings  &  Co. ;  and 
Lippincott  &  Co. ,  U.S.  A.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

R.  N.  Stephens 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Weyman 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ) 


W.  H.  Johnson 
-     (Gay  £  Bird ;  and  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S. A.) 


Hamilton  Drummond 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons  ; 
and  Doubleday  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 


France — St.  Bartholomew. 
Ditto    ditto. 


"  The    Admirable    Crichton,' 
1560—85. 


Court  of  Henry  III.  (1578). 
Ditto  (1585). 

Henry  of  Guise. 
Period  of  the  League. 
Henry  of  Navarre. 

Ditto. 


S.  Levett  Yeats  j  Ditto. 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ) 


Bertha  Runkle 

(Macmillan    &   Co.;    and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Ditto. 


54 


SIXTEENTH   CENTURY- continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


FROM  THB  MEMOIRS 
OF  A  MINISTER  OF 
FRANCE 

BEATRICE  CENCI 


*THE    GOLDEN    BOOK 
OF  VENICE 

*THE  TERRIBLE  CZAR 


A  BOYAR  OF  THE  TER- 
RIBLE 

UNDER  THE  SOUTHERN 
CROSS 

DOMINIQUE'S    VEN- 
GEANCE 

THE    FLAMINGO 
FEATHER 


THE  SWORD  OF  JUS- 
TICE 


*THE  MONASTERY 
*THE  ABBOT 
*THE  QUEEN'S  QUAIR 
THE  QUEEN'S  MARIES 


Stanley  Weyman 

(Cassell  &  Co. ;  and  Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S. A.) 

F.  D.  Guerrazzi  (trans.) 
(Bosworth    &     Harrison, 
London,  1858) 

Mrs.  L.  Turnbull 
(Century  Co.,  New  York) 

Count  A.  K.  Tolstoy  (trans.) 
(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

F.  Whishaw 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

D.  Alcock 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

K.  Munroe 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Sheppard  Stevens 

(Gay  &  Bird ;  and  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
and  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Maurice  Hewlett 

(Pall  Mall  Magazine  from 
June,  1903) 

G.  J.  Whyte  Melville 
(W.  Thacker&  Co.;  Ward, 
Lock,  &  Co.;  and  Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Henry  of  Navarre. 


Italy,  late  Sixteenth  Century 


Venice,  1565  onwards  (Repub- 
lics. Church-Fra  Paolo  Sarpi). 

Russia — Ivan  IV. 


Ditto        ditto. 


Peru,  after  the   Spanish  Con- 
quest. 

France  and  Florida  (early  pio- 
neers). 

Huguenots  in  Florida. 


Struggle  between  French  and 
Spaniards  for  possession  of 
Florida,  1565. 

Melrose  and  District  (1550). 


Mary  Queen   of   Scots   (Low- 
lands, 1567). 


Ditto    (the  six  years  commenc- 
ing 1561). 


Ditto      (Holyrood  —  Arabella 
Stuart,  &c.). 


55 


SIXTEENTH   CENTURY—continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•UNKNOWN    TO    HIS- 
TORY 

MARY  HAMILTON 


ONE    QUEEN  TRIUM- 
PHANT 

*THE  MASTER  OF  GRAY 


TOWER  OR  THRONE? 
"KENILWORTH 

*SiR  MORTIMER 


DOROTHY  VERNON  OF 
HADDON  HALL 

SWEET    "DOLL"    OF 
HADDON  HALL 

THE  BLACK  FAMILIARS 


FOR  GOD  AND  GOLD 
SONS  OF  ADVERSITY 

BY  STROKE  OF  SWORD 
'SiR  LUDAR 


Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Lord  Ernest  Hamilton 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Frank  Mathew 
(John  Lane) 

H.  C.  Bailey 
(Longmans  &  Co.) 


Harriet  T.  Comstock 
(Little,  Brown,  &  Co.) 

Scott 

(A.  £  C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  Johnston 

(Constable ;      Houghton, 
Mifflin,  U.S.A.) 

C.  Major 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

J.  E.  Muddock 
(J.  Long) 

L.  B.  Walford 

(James  Clarke  &  Co.) 

Julian  Corbett 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

L.  Cope  Cornford 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

A.  Balfour 

(Methuen    &    Co.;     and 
Buckles  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

T.  Baines  Reed 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 


Mary  Queen  of  Scots  (Captivity 
of  Mary). 

Ditto    (Moray,  Darnley,  &c.). 
Ditto    (Elizabeth  and  Mary). 


Period  of  Mary's  late  captivity. 
(Elizabeth,  James  VI.,  Sidney, 
Walsingham,  Burleigh,  &c.) 

Girlhood  of  Elizabeth. 


Elizabeth  and  Leicester  (Ox- 
fordshire and  Warwickshire, 
1575). 

English  naval  supremacy  in  the 
Elizabethan  period. 


Time  of  Elizabeth. 
Ditto. 


Ditto    (Religious    intrigues    in 
early  part  of  reignj. 

Ditto  (Cambridge  and  West  In- 
dies— Drake). 

Ditto  (England  and   Holland, 
IS74). 


Ditto  (Fife,  Devon,  and  West 
Indies — Drake). 


Ditto  (England   and    Ireland — 
the  Armada). 


56 
SIXTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•WESTWARD  Hoi 
•MAELCHO 

RALPH  WYNWARD 
GUAVAS  THE  TINNER 

PENSHURST  CASTLE 
THE  GOLDEN  GALLEON 
•MASTER  SKYLARK 

THE  SHROUDED  FACE 
*ROSSLYN'S  RAID 


THE  OUTLAWS  OF  THE 
MARCHES 


«*\VITH  ESSEX  IN  IRE- 
LAND 


THE    TREASURE    OF 
DON  ANDRES 


Charles  Kingsley 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Emily  Lawless 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Elrington 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

S.  Baring-Gould 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  Lip- 
pincott&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

R.  Leighton 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  Scrib- 
ner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

John  Bennett 

(Macmillan    &   Co.;    and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Owen  Rhoscomyl 
(C.  A.  Pearson) 

Beatrice  H.  Barmby 
(Duckworth  &  Co.) 

Lord  Ernest  Hamilton 
(Fisher  Unwin;  andDodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emily  Lawless 

( Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  T.  W. 
Lovell,  U.S.A.)    " 

J.  J.  Haldane  Burgess 
(Matthewson,  Lerwick) 


Armada,  &c.  (Devon  and  West 
Indies). 

Irish  Rebellion,  1579. 


Ditto  (Sack  of  Youghal). 
The  Devonshire  Tinneries. 

Sir  Philip  Sidney. 


Sir  Richard  Grenville,  Raleigh, 
&c.  (Fight  of  The  Revenge). 


Shakespeare  (Warwickshire  and 
London). 


Wales   (Carnarvon)    in    second 
half  of  i6th  century. 

Scottish  Border  in  Elizabethan 
days. 

Liddesdale  and  Border  district 
about  1587. 


Ireland  (1599). 


Shetland    and    Spain   (time   of 
the  Armada). 


a  Readers  are  recommended  to  read  as  a  sequel,  Standish  O'Grady's  "  Ulrick  the  Ready  "  (Downey 
tc  Co.,  1896),  in  which  volume  the  Battle  of  Kinsale  (1602)  is  a  main  feature.  Mr.  O'Grady's  other 
"  laies  "  of  this  period  are  historically  vivid,  but  not  fiction  proper. 


57 


SIXTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

*A  FLAME  OF  FIRE 
A  NOBLE  QUEEN 

Joseph  Hocking 
(Cassell&  Co.;  and  Revell, 
U.S.  A.) 

Meadows  Taylor 
(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co.) 

Spain  (time  of  the  Armada). 

India  in  the  last  decade  of  the 
1  6th  Century  (Queen  Chand 
Beebee). 

SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


SlGNORS      OF     THE 

NIGHT 


*THE  LONG  NIGHT 


*DMITRI 


A  SPLENDID  IMPOSTOR 


A  GENTLEMAN  PLAYER 


*THE    FORTUNES    OF 
NIGEL 


Max  Pemberton 

(C.  A.  Pearson;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Weyman 

(Longmans  &  Co.,  and 
McClure,  Phillips,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

F.  W.  Bain 

(Percival  &  Co.;  and  Ap- 
pleton&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Whishaw 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 

R.  N.  Stephens 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black :  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Venice  about  1600  (Fra  Paolo 
Sarpi). 


Defence  of  Geneva  against  the 
Savoyards  in  1602. 


Russia  (the  "false  Demetrius") 
at  commencement  of  ijth 
Century. 

Ditto        ditto. 


Shakespeare  in  1601. 


Time  of  James  I.  (London  and 
neighbourhood,  1604). 


53 
SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a* THE    LANCASHIRE 
WITCHES 


THE  BLACK  TOR 


THE   YOUNG    QUEEN 
OF  HEARTS 


*!N  THE  DAYS  OF  KING 
JAMES 

ROMANCE    OF    THE 
LADY  ARBELL 

JUDITH  SHAKESPEARE 


FATHER  DARCY 


THE  LOST  TREASURE 
OF  TREVLYN 

GUY  FAWKES 


£*STANDISH  OF  STAN- 
DISH 


Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons; 
Gibbings&Co.;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  Manville  Fenn 
(W.  &  R.  Chambers  ;  and 
Lippincott  &  Co.,U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley&  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

S.  H.  Burchell 
(Gay  &  Bird) 

Alastor  Graeme 
(F.  V.  White) 

William  Black 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Anne  Marsh 

(Chapman  &  Hall,  1846 ; 
and  (later)  Ward  &  Lock) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons; 
Gibbings&Co.;  and  Lip- 
pincott &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  G.  Austin 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Time  of  James  I.   (Witchcraft 
Trials  at  Lancaster,  1612). 


Ditto  (Peak  District). 


Ditto  (Princess   Elizabeth    and 
Prince  Henry). 


Ditto  (1603—15). 


Ditto  (Arabella  Stuart,  1578— 
1615). 

Ditto  (Stratford-on-Avon) 


Time  of  the  Gunpowder  Plot. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 


America — Period  of  the  Pilgrim 
Fathers. 


a  Ainsworth's  novel,  "The  Star  Chamber,"  also  deals  with  James  1.,  but  is  distinctly  inferior  in 
literary  workmanship.  Why  will  bibliographers  continue  the  old  mistake  of  classing  "The  Lancashire 
Witches  "  under  Henry  VIII.  period  ?  The  introduction  alone  deals  with  "  The  Pilgrimage  of  Grace  "; 
the  tale  itself  is  occupied  with  long-subsequent  personages  and  events. 

b  This  is  the  first  of  a  series  of  tales  dealing  with  Early  American  history,  by  the  same  author,  viz.; — 
"Betty  Alden"  (sequel  to  above);  "A  Nameless  Nobleman"  (half-century  later  than  "Standish  of 
Standish  "),  with  its  sequel, "  Dr.  Le  Baron  and  his  Daughters  "  (all  published  by  Houghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co.). 


59 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*  SOLDIER  RIGDALE 
THE  LITTLE  CHIEF 


LONGFEATHER    THE 
PEACEMAKER 


*Bv  ORDER  OF  THE 
COMPANY  (To  HAVE 
AND  TO  HOLD) 


*THE  HEAD  OF  A  HUN- 
DRED 


MERRY-MOUNT 


"MISTRESS  BRENT 


*SiR  CHRISTOPHER 


ANTONIA 


THE  DUKE'S  SERVANTS 


'UNDER    SALISBURY 
SPIRE 


WINIFREDE'S  JOURNAL 


B.  M.  Dix 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

E.  F.  Pollard 
(E.  Mister) 

Kirk  Munroe 
(George  Newnes ;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  Johnston 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Maud  W.  Goodwin 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

J.  L.  Motley 

(James  Munroe  &  Co., 
Boston,  1849) 

Lucy  M.  Thruston 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Maud  W.  Goodwin 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Jessie  Van  Zile  Belden 
(John  Murray ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  H.  Burchell 

(Gay  &  Bird  ;  and  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Dutton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 


America — Period  of  the  Pilgrim 
Fathers. 

Ditto  ditto. 

Ditto  (Indians). 

Old  Virginia,  1622, 
Ditto. 

Plymouth  Colony. 
Maryland,  1636. 
Ditto,  1644. 


Dutch    Colonists    in    Hudson 
River  Districts,  1640- -50. 


The  Duke  of  Buckingham  (1624 
—28). 


George  Herbert,  1613 — 33. 


Bishop  Hall  (Exeter  and  Nor- 
wich), from  1637  to  his  death. 


6o 


SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


IN  HIGH  PLACES 
WHITEHALL 
ANTHONY  EVERTON 

a  THE  MS.  IN  A  RED 
Box 

THE  DOGS  OF  WAR 


WITH  THE  KING  AT 
OXFORD 


OVER  THE  BORDER 


THE  SIEGE  OF  YORK 


AN    OLD    LONDON 
NOSEGAY 


MISTRESS  SPITFIRE 


*THE  SPLENDID  SPUR 


£*CAPTAIN  FORTUNE 


CROMWELL'S  OWN 


Miss  Braddon 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 

Emma  Robinson 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

T.  S.  Fletcher 

(W.  &  R.  Chambers) 

Rev.  John  A.  Hamilton 
(J.  Lane) 

E.  Pickering 
(Warne  &  Co.) 


A.  J.  Church 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Robert  Barr 

(Isbister  &  Co.,  and  F.  A. 
Stokes,  U.S.A.) 


Beatrice  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 

Beatrice  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 


J.  S.  Fletcher 

(T.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
McClurg&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

"Q" 

(Cassell   &   Co.;    and   C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  B.  Marriott-Watson 
(7\P.'s  Weekly,  Autumn, 
1903) 

A.  Paterson 

(Harper  &  Brothers) 


Earlier  years  of  Charles  I. 

Ditto. 

Ditto  (Lord  Strafford,  1639). 

Draining  of  the  Fens  by  Cor- 
nelius Vermuyden,  1627). 

Godmanchester,  &c.,  1636  on- 
wards— Naseby  and  the 
Storming  of  Bristol. 

Civil  War  (earlier  stages). 


Ditto  (A  Borderer's  ride  to  Ox- 
ford with  Scotch  message 
to  the  King — Strafford's 
daughter). 

Ditto  (Fairfax,  1642). 


Ditto  (London  and  Oxford,  1642 
— 60.  Lady  Fanshawe, 
Lovelace,  £c.). 

Ditto  (1642—44). 


Ditto  (West  of  England,   1642 
— 3)- 

Ditto  (Cornish  Rising,  1643). 


Ditto  (1640  up  to  Marston  Moor) 


a  The  originally  mysterious  production  of  a  would-be  unknown  author !  The  MS.  of  this  novel  was 
sent  to  the  publisher  in  a  red  box  without  any  indication  whatever  as  to  its  origin.  Since  the  successful 
launching  of  the  volume,  its  author  ha*  been  identified  through  a  friend's  mediation. 

t  Published  in  volume  form  by  Methuen  &  Co.,  1904. 


6i 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


CORNET    STRONG    OF 
IRETON'S  HORSE 


•WHEN  CHARLES  I.  WAS 
KING 


*HUGH  GWYETH 
MIRIAM  CROMWELL 


ST.  GEORGE  AND  ST. 
MICHAEL 


STANHOPE 


LIFE,  TREASON,  AND 
DEATH  OF  JAMES 
BLOUNT  OF  BRECK- 
ENHOW 

'BATTLEMENT    AND 
TOWER 

"HOLMBY  HOUSE 


•THE  CAVALIERS 


THE  CHILDREN  OF  THE 
NEW  FOREST 


OLD  BLACKFRIARS 


Dora  McChesney 
(John  Lane) 


J.  S.  Fletcher 
(Gay  &  Bird ;  and  McClurg 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

B.  M.  Dix 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Dora  McChesney 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 
and  Way  &  Williams, 
U.S. A.) 

George  Macdonald 

(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co. ;  and 
George  Munro,  U.S.A.) 

E.  L.  Haverfield 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Beulah  M.  Dix 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Owen  Rhoscomyl 
(Longmans  &  Co.) 

G.  J.  Whyte  Melville 

(W.  Thacker&  Co. ;  Ward, 
Lock,  &  Co.;  and  Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Keightley 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
Harper  &  Bros,,  U.S.A.) 

Marryatt 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.,  and 
others) 

Beatrice  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Dutton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Civil  War  (Period  between 
Marston  Moor  and  Fall 
of  Bristol). 

Ditto  (Marston  Moor  and  Siege 
of  Pontefract). 


Ditto  (Edgehill,  &c.). 


Ditto  (From  Edgehill  to  Naseby 
and  Death  of  Charles  I. ). 


Ditto  (Raglan  Castle,  Newbury, 
&c.). 


Ditto  (Naseby,  &c.). 


Ditto  (Imaginary  papers  of  a 
Yorkshire  family  illus- 
trating the  period  1642 
-45). 

Ditto  (Wales  in  1645,  and  Battle 
of  Naseby). 

Ditto  (Newbury,  Naseby,  &c., 
and  Charles's  captivity 
and  death.) 


Ditto  (Cromwell  and  Charles — 
Carisbrooke). 


Ditto  (near  Lymington,  1647). 


Van  Dyck. 


62 


SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


'To  RIGHT  THE  WRONG 


•IN  SPITE  OF  An. 


FOLLOW  THE  GLEAM 


KING  "Bv  THE  GRACE 
OF  GOD"  (Von  Gottes 
Gnaden) 

*THE    MAIDEN    AND 
MARRIED   LIFE  OF 
MARY  POWELL 


A  HAUNT  OF  ANCIENT 
PEACE 


THE  DRAYTONS  AND 
THE  DAVENANTS 

ON    BOTH    SIDES   OF 
THE  SEA 

•JOHN  INGLESANT 


•MEMOIRS  OF  A  CAVA- 
LIER 

SILK  AND  STEEL 


<Z*THE  THREE  MUSKE- 
TEERS 


Edna  Lyall 

(Hurst  &  Blackett;    and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Edna  Lyall 

(Hurst  &  Blackett;   and 
Longmans&Co.,U.S.A.) 

Joseph  Hocking 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


J.  Rodenberg  (trans.) 
(Bentley,  1871) 


Miss  Manning 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Charles 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


J.  H.  Shorthouse 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Defoe 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.) 

H.  A.  Hinkson 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Hampden. 


Falkland,  Laud,  &c. 


Cromwell,  Charles  I.,  Straf- 
ford,  &c.,  1640 — 46  (Marston 
Moor). 

Cromwell  from  the  Naseby 
period  to  his  death. 


John  Milton  (1643)  Oxfordshire 
and  London. 


Nicholas  Ferrar. 


(l)  Civil  War  generally,  1637 — 
49;  (2)  Commonwealth  to 
Restoration  (Baxter,  Bunyan, 
Fox,  &c.). 

England  (Charles  I.)  and  Italy 
(the  Molinists). 

Germany  and  England  (Wars). 


Ireland  (Charles  I.),  Low  Coun- 
tries, and  France  (Richelieu). 

France — Richelieu.  &c.  (1625 — 
28). 


a  The  Assassination  of  the  Duke  of  Buckingham  (1628),  and  the  Execution  of  Charles  I.,  are  amply 
illustrated  in  The  Thrtt  Musketeers  and  Twenty  Years  After  respectively. 


SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


His  HEART'S  DESIRE 
*  UNDER  THE  RED  ROBE 

THE  MAN  IN  BLACK 
'RICHELIEU 
"CiNQ  WARS 


THE  PLOWSHARE  AND 
THE  SWORD 


A    DAUGHTER    OF 
FRANCE 

*THE   LADY  OF  FORT 
ST.  JOHN 


BETROTHED 
LOVERS 


RUPERT    BY    THE 
GRACE  OF  GOD 

STRAY  PEARLS 
A  BRAVE  RESOLVE 


Katharine  S.  Macquoid 
(Hodder  and  Stoughton) 

Stanley  Weyman 

(Methuen    &    Co.  ;    and 
Longmans  &  Co., U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Weyman 
(Cassell  &  Co.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons,  &c.) 

A.  de  Vigny  (trans.) 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons, 
1877;  and  Little, Brown, 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ernest  George  Henham 
(Cassell  &  Co.) 


Eliza  Pollard 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Mrs.  Catherwood 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Manzoni  (trans.) 

(Ward.  Lock,  &Co.,  1889; 
and Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Dora  McChesney 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

J.  B.  de  Liefde 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton ; 
and  Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


The    earlier  stages   in    Riche- 
lieu's career. 

Time  of  Richelieu. 


Ditto. 

Ditto  (Cinq  Mars). 

Ditto. 


Quebec,  New  England,  and 
Acadie,  1637 — 47  ;  English, 
French,  and  Dutch. 

France  and  Acadie. 


Acadie  (French  Colony). 


Italy — the    Plague    in    Milan, 
1630. 


Prince  Rupert's  time. 


Ditto. 


Wallenstein. 


a  Also  published  by  George  Bell  &  Sons  (Bohn's  Series)  under  the  title,  "  The  Betrothed. '     I  adopt 
the  fuller  title,  to  prevent  confusion  with  Scott's  romance. 


64 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

THE    LION    OF    THE 
NORTH 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Scotsmen  in  Army  of  Gustavus 
Adolphus. 

RED  AXE 

S.  R.  Crockett 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.  ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Thirty  Years  War. 

a  BARON  AND  SQUIRE 

Wilhelm  Noeldechen  (trans.) 
(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.) 

Ditto   (Tilly,    Richelieu,    &c., 
from  1619). 

*DER  DEUTSCHE  KRIEG 

Heinrich  Laube 

Ditto. 

(Collective  Title  of 
Series) 

(Haessel,  Leipsic) 

*HAUS  ECKBERG 

Sophie  Junghans 
(Hirzel,  Leipsic) 

Ditto. 

*JURG  JENATSCH 

C.  F.  Meyer 
(Haessel,  Leipsic) 

Ditto  (the  Grisons  district). 

MY  LADY  ROTHA 

Stanley  We}'  man 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.  ;  and 
Longmans  &Co.,U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (Nuremberg,  &c.). 

PHILIP  ROLLO 

James  Grant 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Ditto  (Scotch  soldier  of  fortune 
—Tilly,  &c.). 

£*THB    KING'S    RING 
(TIMES  OF  GUSTAV 
ADOLF) 

Zach  arias  Topelius  (trans.) 
(Jarrold  &  Sons  ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (Gustavus  Adolphus). 

KARL  OF  ERBACH 

H.  C.  Bailey 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Ditto  (Turenne). 

BELEAGUERED 

Herman  T.  Koerner 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

Ditto  (Villingen,  1633—34). 

WON  BY  THE  SWORD 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (Turenne,  Mazarin,  &c.) 

a  This  book  was  translated  by  Sarah  M.  S.  Clarke  ;  in  the  latest  English  edition  her  name  only  is 
given. 

t  The  first  of  a  series  covering  the  iTth  and  i8th  centuries.  Under  the  general  title  of  "The 
Surgeon's  Stories,"  the  remaining  volumes  are  published  by  Messrs.  A.  (J.  McClurg  &  Co.,  U.S.A. :  one 
of  these  appears  in  my  list  later  on. 


65 
SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•TWENTY  YEARS  AFTER  j  Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


*  MARIE  DE  MANCINI 
*THE  SILVER  CROSS 


FLORE 

(In  "  In  Kings'  By- 
ways ") 

*THE  GREY  CLOAK 


*  HENRY  MASTERTON 
PRETTY  MICHAL 

•WITH    FIRE    AND 
SWORD 

•THE  DELUGE 
•PAN  MICHAEL 
FOR  His  PEOPLE 

•JOHN  SPLENDID 


•THE  LEGEND  OF  MON- 
TROSE 


Madame  Sophie  Gay  (trans.) 
(Lawrence  &  Bullen) 

S,  R.  Keightley 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  and  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Weyman 

(Smith,  Elder,  £  Co.;  and 
Longmans  &  Co., U.S.  A.) 

Harold  MacGrath 
(Bobbs-Merrill  Co.  .U.S.A.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

M.  Jokai  (trans.) 
(J  arrold  &  Sons ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


H.  Sienkiewicz  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Viscount  Hayashi 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

Neil  Munro 

(Wm.  Blackwood  &  Sons ; 
and  Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Blnck;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


France — Time  of  Mazarin,  &c. 

Ditto  ditto. 

Ditto  ditto. 


Mazarin's  first  establishment  to 
power,  1643. 


Paris  under  Mazarin  ;  and  Ca- 
nada. 


England  (Civil  War)  and  France 
(the  Fronde). 

Hungary,   middle   Seventeenth 
Century. 


Poland  and  Russia,  from  middle 
of  the  Seventeenth  Century. 


Japan  in  first  half  of  the  Seven- 
teenth Century. 

Scotland  during  period  of  Mon- 
trose  and  the  Covenant. 


Ditto  ditto  (1645). 


66 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


JOURNAL  OF  THE  LADY 
BEATRIX  GRAHAM 

*THE  ANGEL  OF  THE 
COVENANT 


•KATHLEEN  CLARE 
DAUNTLESS 

JOHN  MARMADUKE 
*  CASTLE  OMERAGH 


IN  THE  KING'S  SER- 
VICE 


*ETHNE 
HARRY  OGILVIE 


THE   WHITE    KING'S 
DAUGHTER 


IN  COLSTON'S  DAYS 

THE  KING'S  PISTOLS 
WANDERER  AND  KING 
PATRICIA  AT  THE  INN 


Mrs.  Fowler  Smith 
(Geo.  Bell  &  Sons) 

J.  Maclaren  Cobban 
(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  R.  F. 
Fenno&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Dora  McChesney 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 

Ewan  Martin 

(C.  A.  Pearson ;  and  L.  C. 
Page,  U.S.A.) 

S.  H.  Church 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

F.  Frankfort  Moore 

(Constable  &  Co. ;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Field 
(Wells,  Gardner,  &  Co.) 

James  Grant 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Dutton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

C.  P.  Plant 

(Sonnenschein  &  Co.) 

O.  V.  Caine 

(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.) 

J.  C.  Snaith 
(Arrowsmith) 


Scotland  during  period  of  Mon- 
trose  and  the  Covenant. 

Ditto  ditto. 


Ireland,  1637—41. 

England  and  Ireland  in  Charles 
I. — Cromwell  period  (Earl  of 
Ormond,  &c.). 

Ireland — Cromwellian  wars. 
Ditto  ditto. 


Ditto 


ditto. 


Ditto  ditto. 

Scotland — Cromwellian  wars. 


The  Princess  Elizabeth  (Caris- 
brooke). 


Bristol,  1636—1720. 


Cromwell,      1649 — 51     (Kent, 
London,and  West  of  England). 

Wanderings  of  Charles  II.  after 
Battle  of  Worcester. 

Ditto        ditto. 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


AFTER  WORCESTER 
OVINGDEAN  GRANGE 

*  WOODSTOCK 
•NESSA 
•CAPTAIN  JACOBUS 


*A     LITTLE    CAPTIVE 
LAD 

*PENRUDDOCK  OF  THE 
WHITE  LAMBS 

•"THE    MAKING    OF 
CHRISTOPHER  FER- 

RINGHAM 

THE  WOOING  OF  JU- 
DITH 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons; 
Gibbings   &  Co.;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

L.  McManus 

(Sealy,  Bryers,  and  Wal- 
ker) 

L.  Cope  Cornford 
(Methuen    &    Co.;      and 
Stone,  U.S.A.) 

B.  M.  Dix 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

S.  H.  Church 
(F.  Stokes,  U.S.A.) 

B.  M.  Dix 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Sara  B.  Kennedy 
(Hodder    &    Stoughton ; 
and  Doubleday  &  Co.. 
U.S.A.) 


THE  LORD  PROTECTOR  i  S.  Levett  Yeats 

(Cassell  &  Co. ;  and  Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


*THE  LION'S  WHELP 


ADAM  HEPBURN'S  Vow 


Amelia  E.  Barr 
(Fisher  Unwin;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Annie  S.  Swan 
(Cassell  &  Co.) 


Wanderings  of  Charles  II.  after 
Battle  of  Worcester. 

Ditto   (South    Downs,    ending 
with  the  escape  to  France). 


Commonwealth  period  (Oxford- 
shire and  Windsor,  1652). 


Ditto    (Ireland   in   1654— The 
Cromwellian  Settlement). 


Ditto  (Cavalier  Highwayman, 
1655.  Salisbury,  &c., 
and  Holland). 

Ditto  (Holland  and  England). 


Ditto  (Holland,   England,   and 
America). 

Ditto  (New  England). 


Ditto  (Cavaliers  in  Virginia). 


Oliver  Cromwell's  later  years. 


Ditto  (Death  Scene). 


Scotland— Kirk  and  Covenant. 


F — 2 


68 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY- continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*FRIEND  OLIVIA 


THE   SHADOW   OF   A 
CRIME 


A  GALLANT  QUAKER 
THE  GOLDEN  ARROW 

*KlNG  NOANETT 


*THE    ROMANCE    OF 

DOLLARD 


*TARA 

THE  LAST  OF  THE  CLIF- 
FORDS 

BRAMBLETYE  HOUSE 
GOD  SAVE  THE  KING 


*Mv  LORD  WINCHEX- 
DEN 

LONDON  PRIDE 


I  LIVED  AS  I  LISTED 


Amelia  E.  Barr 

(James  Clarke  &  Co.;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Hall  Caine 

(Chatto  &  Windus;   and 
L.C.Page&Co.,U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Roberton 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Ruth  Hall 

(Houghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co.) 

F.  J.  Stimson 

(John  Lane ;  and  C.  Scrib- 
ner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Catherwood 
(Fisher  Unwin  ;  and  Cen- 
tury Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Meadows  Taylor 
(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Horace  Smith 
(John  Dicks) 

Ronald  Macdonald 
(John  Murray ;  and  Cen- 
tury Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Graham  Hope 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.) 


Miss  Braddon 

(Simpkin  &  Co. ;  and  R.  F. 
Fenno  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Arthur  L.  Maitland 

(Wells,  Gardner,  &  Co.) 


George  Fox,  the  Quaker. 


Quakers  at  the  Restoration. 


George  Fox  and  William  Penn. 


Anne  Hutchinson  and  the  In- 
dians (America). 

Virginia  and  Massachusetts  Bay 
(Commonwealth  period  and 
later). 

French  in  Canada. 


India,  1657.     (Rise  of  the  Mah- 
rattas.) 


Elizabeth  of  Bohemia  and  offer 
of  Crown  to  Charles. 

Commonwealth — Charles  II. 
Ditto        ditto. 


Early  Restoration  Days  in  Lon- 
don and  Chelsea.  (Isaac 
Newton). 

Time  of  Charles  II.  (1649 — 
78.  Plague,  Lady  Cas- 
tlemaine,  &c.) 

Ditto  (Highwayman). 


6g 


SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


SILAS  VERNEY 


•His    GRACE    o'    THE 
GUNNE 


THE  PURITAN'S  WIFE 


•JOURNAL    OF    THE 
PLAGUE 


CHERRY  AND  VIOLET 


•OLD  ST.  PAUL'S 


THE  DAGGER  AND  THE 
CROSS 


*WHITEI  RIARS 


DANIEL  HERRICK 


*SIMON  DALE 


NELL  GWYNN,  COME- 
DIAN 


E.  Pickering 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

!  I.  Hooper 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.  A.) 

Max  Pemberton 

(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Defoe 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Miss  Manning 

(Geo.  Routiedge  &  Sons ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routiedge  &  Sons  ; 
Gibbings  &  Co. ;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Hatton 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
R.  F.  Fenno  &  Co. 
U.S.A.) 

Emma  Robinson 
(Geo.  Routiedge  &  Sons) 


S.  H.  Burchell 
(Gay  &  Bird) 

Anthony  Hope 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  F.  A. 
Stokes  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Frankfort  Moore 
(C.  A.  Pearson  ;  and  Bren- 
tano's,  U.S.A.) 


SIR  RALPH  ESHER         Leigh  Hunt 

(Henry  Colburn,  1832) 


Time  of  Charles  II.  (London 
and  Holland). 

Ditto   (London,  Somerset,  and 
Devon,  1664—65). 


Ditto    (Adventure    in    Plague 
period). 


Ditto. 


Ditto  (Plague  and  Fire). 


Ditto        ditto. 


Ditto    (Italy    and    Plague    at 
Eyam). 


Ditto  (Great  Fire  and  after — 
Claude  Duval,  Blood, 
&c.) 

Ditto  (Lady  Castlemaine,  the 
Catholics,  &c.) 

Ditto    (Nell  Gwynne). 


Ditto. 


Ditto    (Court  life). 


SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*PEVERIL  OF  THE  PEAK 

TRAITOR  OR  PATRIOT? 

*!N  THE  GOLDEN  DAYS 

MARY  HOLLIS 
"OLD  MORTALITY 


*THE    MEN    OF    THE 
Moss  HAGS 


•JOHN    BURNET    OF 
BARNS 

a*DEBORAH5S  DlARY 


•WINCHESTER  MEADS 


IN  THE  EAST  COUN- 
TRY   WITH    SIR 
THOMAS  BROWNE 

IN  THE  SERVICE  OF 
RACHEL,  LADY  RUS- 
SELL 

IN    WESTMINSTER 
CHOIR 


Scott 

(A. &C. Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  C.  Rowsell 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Edna  Lyall 

(Hurst  &  Blackett;  and 
Appleton& Co.,  U.S.A.) 

H.  J.  Schimmel  (trans.) 
(John  Camden  Hotten) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black;  and 
Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(Isbister  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Buchan 
(John  Lane) 

Miss  Manning 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Button 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 


Time  of  Charles  II.  (Derbyshire, 
Isle  of  Man,  and  London, 
1678). 

Ditto  (Rye  House  Plot). 


Ditto   (Algernon   Sidney — Suf- 
folk). 


Ditto  (1670—88.     William  of 
Orange). 

Both  well  Bridge,  1679. 


Ditto. 


Scotland  and  the  Low  Countries 
(1678—88). 

Milton  and  his  daughters,  1665. 
(Plague  period). 


Bishop  Ken. 

Author  of  "  Religio  Medici." 


Lord  Russell  (Rye  House  Plot), 
Tillotson,  Burnet,  &c. — Can- 
terbury and  London. 

Purcell  the  Composer. 


Sequel  to  "The  Maiden  and  Married  Life  of  Mary  Powell." 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  CARVED  CARTOON 


*BARNABY  LEE 


•SPINOZA 


*THE  MAKEROF  LENSES 
(in  "  Dreamers  of  the 
Ghetto  ") 

*'MlDST     THE      WILD 

CARPATHIANS 

*THE  SLAVES  OF  THE 
PADISHAH 

THE  WIZARD  KING 


*THE  BLACK  TULIP 


CAPTAIN  SATAN  (AD- 
VENTURES OF  CY- 
RANO DE  BERGERAC) 

a*THE      VlCOMTE      DE 

BRAGELONNE 


Austin  Clare 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

John  Bennett 

(F.  Warne  &  Co.;  and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Berthold  Auerbach  (trans.) 
Sampson    Low    &    Co.  ; 
and  Henry  Holt  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

I.  Zangwill 

(W.  Heinemann ;  and  Har- 
per &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 


M.  Jokai  (trans.) 
Qarrold  &Sons ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


D.  Ker 

(W.  &  R.  Chambers ;  and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Louis  Gallet  (trans.) 

(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and  R.  F. 
Fenno&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Grinling  Gibbons. 


Founding  of  New  York,    and 
Maryland,  1664. 


A    romance    of    Spinoza     the 
Philosopher. 


Short  Story  of  ditto. 


Transylvania,  1666,  to  last  years 
of  Turkish  rule  about  1680 
—90. 


The  Carpathian  District  (John 
Sobieski  and  the  Turks). 


William    of   Orange    and    the 
Brothers  De  Witt  in  1672. 


Adventure  in  early  Louis  XIV. 
period. 


France — Louis    XIV.    (1660 — 
72). 


a  An  important  psychological  novel,  Princesse  de  Cleves  by  Comtesse  de  la  Fayette  (first  published  in 
1678),  deals  nominally  with  the  Court  of  Henri  II. ;  certain  characters  in  the  book,  however,  are  really 
well-Wnown  men  and  women  of  the  Louis  XIV.  period  under  other  names.  Osgood  &  Co.  published  a 
translation  in  1892. 


72 

SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  GOLDEN  FLEECE 


*!N  THE  DAY  OF  AD- 
VERSITY 


THE  FROWN  OF  MA- 
JESTY 

*THE  REFUGEES 


THE   BLACK   WOLF'S 
BREED 


MARGOT  ;  THE  COURT 
SHOEMAKER 


THE  KING'S  SIGNET 


THE  MARCHIONESS  OF 
BRINVILLIERS 

His  COUNTERPART 


THE  CLASH  OF  ARMS 


UNCROWNING  A  KING 


Amedee  Achard  (trans.) 
(J.  Macqueen ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Albert  Lee 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 

Conan  Doyle 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.; 
r.nd  Harper  &  Bros., 
U.S.A.) 

H.  Dickson 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  Bowen- 
Merrill  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Millicent  E.  Mann 

(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Eliza  Pollard 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Albert  Smith 
(Bentley,  new  edition,  1886) 

Russell  M.  Gamier 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  S.  Ellis 

(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  New 
Amsterdam  Book  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


France— Louis  XIV.  (Turkish 
Wars). 


Ditto   (1687 — towards    end    of 
the  Louvois  Ministry). 


Ditto  (Madame  de  Maintenon, 
Racine,  £c.) 

Louis    XIV.— Old    and    New 
World. 


Ditto        ditto. 


Ditto        ditto. 


Madame  de  Maintenon,  &c. 


Marquise    de    Brinvilliers,   the 
poisoner. 

Wars      of      Turenne      (John 
Churchill). 

Ditto        ditto. 


America — King  Philip's  War. 


73 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  OLD  DOMINION 
(PRISONERS  OF  HOPE) 


VIVIAN  OF  VIRGINIA 


*WHITE  APRONS 


WHEN  THE  LAND  WAS 
YOUNG 


A  REPUTED  CHANGE 
LING 

a  THE  BATON  SINISTER 
•THE  REBEL 

*THE  LOVER  FUGITIVES 
*LORNA  DOONE 


*FOR  FAITH  AND  FREE- 
DOM 


*MICAH  CLARKE 


Mary  Johnston 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Houghton,  MifHin,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Hulbert  Fuller 
(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Maud  W.  Goodwin 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Miss  L.  McLaws 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Lothrop  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

G.  Gilbert 
(J.  Long) 

H.  B.  Marriott  Watson 
(W.  Heinemann ;  and  Har- 
per &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Finnemore 

(C.  A.  Pearson  ;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

R.  D.  Blackmore 
(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
G.   P.   Putnam's   Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros. ,  U.  S.  A. ) 

Conan  Doyle 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.; 
and  Harper  &  Bros., 
U.S.A.) 


Virginia,  late  Seventeenth  Cen- 
tury. 


Ditto        ditto. 


Ditto        ditto  (1676). 


Florida  Border  (Time  of  Tames 
II.). 


Period  of  Charles  II.— William 
III. 

Duke  of  Monmouth,  1674 — 86. 
Rising  at  Taunton,  1684. 


Days     following     Monmonth's 
Invasion  (Hampshire). 


Monmouth  Rebellion  (Exmoor). 

Ditto  (Barbadoes). 
Ditto  (Sedgmoor). 


a.  Depicts  the  Duke  of  Monmouth  in  a  distinctly  favourable  light. 


74 


SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  BLUB  FLAG 
IN  TAUNTON  TOWN 
•URITH 

DEB  CLAVEL 

DUKE  OF  MONMOUTH 


BARBARA    WINSLOW  : 
REBEL 

*THE    COURTSHIP    OF 
MORRICB  BUCKLER 

THE    STANDARD 
BEARER 


*THE  SWORD  OF  THE 
KING 


THE  OUTLAW 

THE   LlFEGUARDSMAN 

IN  JACOBITE  DAYS 


•THE  SCOTTISH  CAVA- 
LIER 

*RlNGAN   GlLHAIZB 


Max  Hillary 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

S.  Baring-Gould 
(Methuen    &    Co. ;     and 
George  Munro,  U.S.A.) 

M.  E.  Palgrave 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 

Gerald  Griffin 

(R.  Bentley,  1836) 

Beth  Ellis 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 

A.  E.  W.  Mason 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ronald  Macdonald 

(John-  Murray  ;  and  Cen- 
tury Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Hall 
(R.  Bentley,  1847) 

H.  J.  Schimmel  (trans.) 
(A.  &  C.  Black) 

Mrs.  Henry  Clarke 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


James  Grant 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

i  J.  Gait 

(Greening  &  Co.) 


Monmouth   Rebellion   (Somer- 
setshire). 

Ditto. 


Ditto  (Dartmoor). 

Ditto  (Dorsetshire). 
Ditto. 


The  days  after  Sedgmoor  (Judge 
Jeffreys). 

London,   Bristol,   and    Abroad 
(Tyrol,  &c.),  1685—87. 

The  Covenanters  (James  II.  to 
William  III). 


William  of  Orange. 

Revolution  period  (i6SS). 
Ditto. 


Devonshire,  from  the  landing  of 
William  to  the  Burning  of 
Teignmouth. 

Battle  of  Killiecrankie. 


Ditto. 


75 


SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLB  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


"LOCHINVAR 


MISTRESS    DOROTHY 
MARVIN 


*BV    DULVERCOMBE 
WATER 

*BLUE  PAVILIONS 


KENSINGTON  PALACE 


*THE  KING'S  AGENT 


MY    MISTRESS   THE 
QUEEN 

BY  THE  NORTH  SEA 


*A  MAN'S  FOBS 


*THE  CRIMSON  SIGN 


TRUE  TO  THE  WATCH- 
WORD 

THE  BOYNE  WATER 


S.  R.  Crockett 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  Har- 
per &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  C.  Snaith 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.  ;  and 
Appleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Vallings 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

"Q" 

(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

A.  Paterson 

(W.  Heinemann ;  and  Ap- 
pleton &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  H.  Burchell 
(Gay  &  Bird) 

M.  A.  Paull 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and 
Thos.Whittaker,U.S.A.) 

E.  H.  Strain 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.  ;  and 
New  Amsterdam  Book 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Keightley 
(Hutchinson  &  Co.  ;   and 
Harper  &  Bros., U.S.A.) 

E.  Pickering 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

J.  Banim 

(James  Duffy,  Dublin) 


Battle  of  Killiecrankie. 


Period  of  Judge  Jeffreys,  &c. 
(Devon  and  London). 


Ditto  (Exmoor,  1685—89). 


William  III.  (Harwich,  France, 
The  Hague,  £c.). 


Ditto. 


Ditto  (Lord  Marlborough). 


Ditto  (Defence  of  the  "  Bass  " 
by  Jacobites). 

Marriage  of  Mary  to  William. 
(Charles  II.— William  III.) 

Cromwell's  Granddaughter. 


Siege  of  Deny  (1689). 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Battle  of  the  Boyne  (1690). 


76 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  MACMAHON 
THE  WAGER 

*!N    THE    WAKE    OF 
KING  JAMES 

aTHE  JACOBITE 
A  WOMAN'S  COURIER 


*ON  THE  RED  STAIR- 
CASE 


THE  LION  CUB 


THE    REBELLION    OF 
THE  PRINCESS 

THE  ROAD  TO  FRON- 

TENAC 


•THE  TRAIL  OF   THE 
SWORD 


A  DAUGHTER  OF  NEW 
FRANCE 

THE  YOUNG  PIONEERS 


*WITH     SWORD    AND 
CRUCIFIX 


Owen  Blayney 
(Constable  &  Co.) 

L.  McManus 
(F.    M.   Buckles  &    Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Standish  O'Grady 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

Harry  Lindsay 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

W.  J.  Yeoman 
(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  Stone, 
U.S.A.) 

M.  Imlay  Taylor 

(Gay  &   Bird;    and    Me 
Clurg&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Whishaw 
(Griffith,  Farran,  &  Co.) 

M.  Imlay  Taylor 
(McClure  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  Merwin 

(John  Murray  ;  and  Dou- 
bleday  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Gilbert  Parker 

(Methuen    &    Co.  ;    and 
Appletonfc  Co.,U.S.A.) 

Mary  C.  Crowley 
(Little,  Brown,  &  Co.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

E.  S.  Van  Zile 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 


Battle  of  the  Boyne  (1690). 
Siege  of  Limerick. 


Connaught  Rapparees  in  the 
last  decade  of  the  seventeenth 
century. 

Conspiracy  of  1696  against 
William  III. 

Ditto        ditto. 


Russia  in  the  youthful  days  of 
Peter  the  Great. 


Ditto        ditto. 


Moscow  (Overturningof  Govern- 
ment, and  Election  of  Peter). 

French  Occupation  of  Canada. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Period   of  La  Salle,   the   Ex- 
plorer. 

Ditto         ditto. 


a  My  original  exclusion  of  Weyman's  "  Shrewsbury  *  (Longmans)  and  Edna  Lyall's  "  Hope  the 
Hermit  (Longmans)  may  have  been  somewhat  arbitrary  ;  I  therefore  allude  to  these  novels  as  illustra- 
ting Jacobite  intrigues  in  tht  time  of  William  ///.,  though  I  must  adhere  to  the  remark  made  upon 
them  in  my  Introduction. 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  STORY  OF  TONTY 


A  ROSE  OF  NORMANDY 


THE  BEGUM'S  DAUGH- 
TER 

THE  COAST  OF  FREE- 
DOM 


THE  BLACK  SHILLING 
*!N  FURTHEST  IND 

DARIEN 

THE  SINGER  OF  MARLY 

MAZEPPA 


Mrs.  Catherwood 

(Grant  Richards ;  and 
A.C.McClurg,3U.S.A.) 

Wm.  R.  A.  Wilson 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

E.  L.  Bynner 
(Houghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co.) 

Marie  Adele  Shaw 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton ; 
and  Doubleday  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Amelia  E.  Barr 

(Fisher  Unwin ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Sydney  C.  Grier 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 
andPage&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Eliot  Warburton 
(Colburn,  1852) 

I.  Hooper 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 


F.  Whishaw 
(Chatto  £  Windus) 


Period  of   La  Salle,   the  Ex- 
plorer. 


Ditto  (Henri  de  Tonti). 


New  York  (Jacob  Leisler). 


Boston  (Time  of  Cotton  Mather 
and  the  Witchcraft  Mania). 


Boston  (England)  1691,  and 
Boston  (America)  —  Cotton 
Mather. 

East  India  Company,  1697. 


William  Paterson  and  the  Da- 
rien  Scheme  (1698). 

Ireland,  Brittany,  Paris  (Louis 
XIV.),  and  Martinique  (Slave 
Market) — 1697  to  1699. 

Mazeppa  and  the  Cossacks, 
I7th  —  iSth  century  (Pol- 
tawa). 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

*LALLY   OF  THE  BRI- 
GADE 

L.  McManus 
(Fisher   Unwin  ;    and  L. 
C.  Page,  U.S.A.) 

War  of  Spanish  Succession  — 
Prince  Eugene  in  Italy  (Sur- 
prise of  Cremona,  1702). 

73 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— 


TITLE  OK  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  SCOURGE  OF  GOD 


FLOWER  o'  THE  CORN 


THE  SIEGE  OF  LADY 
RESOLUTE 

•ESMOND 


•IN  KING'S  HOUSES 


ST.  JAMES'S 


THE  BARONET  IN  COR- 
DUROY 


*THE    OLD    CHELSEA 
BUN  HOUSE 


TOM  Tu ETON'S 
TRAVELS 

TOM  TUFTON'S  TOLL 
*  ACROSS  THE  SALT  SEAS 

FALLEN  FORTUNES 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 

(James  Clarke  &  Co. ;  and 
Appleton&  Co., U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(James  Clarke  &  Co.) 

H.  Dickson 

(Harper  &  Brothers) 

Thackeray 

(Smith,  Elder  &  Co. ;  and 
Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Julia  C.  R.  Dorr 

(Duckworth  &  Co.  ;  and 
L.  C.  Page  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 

(George  Routledge&  Sons ; 
Gibbings  &  Co.,  and 
Lippincott  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Albert  Lee 

(Grant  Richards ;  and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 

Miss  Manning 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 

(Methuen  and  Co. ;    and 
H.  S.  Stone,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Jean  Cavalier  (Cevennes  Revolt). 


Ditto        ditto. 


France  and  Louisiana  (Madame 
de  Maintenon). 

William  III.  to  Anne  (mainly 
the  latter).  Reflects  the  Poli- 
tical, Social,  and  Literary 
forces  of  the  period. 

Windsor  (William  III.— Anne). 


Time  of  Anne  (Court  and  Marl- 
boro'). 


Ditto    (London    and    Country 
Life). 


Ditto. 


Ditto  (Highwayman). 


Ditto  (Battle  of  Blenheim). 


Ditto  (Battle  of  Ramillies). 


79 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  BRAVEST  OF  THE 
BRAVE 


THE  CORNET  OF 
HORSE 


A  LADY'S  HONOUR 
IN  THE  IRISH  BRIGADE 

THE  QUEEN'S  SERF 
DEVEREUX 


UNDER  THE  DOME  OF 
ST.  PAUL'S 


•ESTHER  VANHOMRIGH 


A  KENT  SQUIRE 

GWYNNETT  OF  THORN- 
HAUGH 

A  FAIR  JACOBITE 


THE  HOUSE  ON  THE 
WALL  (in  "In  King's 
Byways  ") 

*AN  IMPERIAL  LOVER 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner'sSons,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Bass  Blake 

(Fisher  Unwin  ;  and  Ap- 
pleton,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner'sSons,  U.S.A.) 

Elsa  d'Esterre  Keeling 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  &  Co. , 

U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Margaret  L.  Woods 
(John  Murray ;  and  Hoven- 
den  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


F.  W.  Hayes 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 


Miss  H.  M.  Poynter 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Stanley  Weyman 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans  &  Co.,U.S.A.) 

M.  Imlay  Taylor 

(Gay  &  Bird ;  and  McClurg 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Time  of  Anne  (Peterborough). 


Ditto  (Duke  of  Marlborough). 


Ditto        ditto. 


Ditto  (Foreign  Wars). 


Ditto  (Kent  and  Spanish  Ame- 
rica, 1709—13). 

Bolingbroke,  &c.  (England  and 
Abroad). 


Sir    Christopher   Wren's   later 
years  (1709 — 23). 


Dean  S  wift. 


England  (Jacobites  and  Marl- 
borough),  and  France  (last 
days  of  Louis  XIV.). 


The  Stuarts  in  Exile— St.  Ger- 
mains,  1708 — 12. 

Spanish  Flanders,  1 706. 


Russia — Peter  the  Great. 


8o 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


SHE  WHO  HESITATES 


BORIS     THE     BEAR- 
HUNTER 

A  LOST  ARMY 


*THB     TRIUMPH     OF 
COUNT  OSTERMANN 


IN  CLARISSA'S  DAY 
a*  THE  MOHOCK 


THE    HERITAGE     OF 
LANGDALE 


BALMORAL 

THE  INTRIGUERS'  WAY 
•PARSON  KELLY 

DUANCE  PENDRAY 
•MONSIEUR  BEAUCAIRE 


Harris  Dickson 
(Bobbs-Merrill  Co.,  U.  S.  A. ) 


F.  Whishaw 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


F.  Whishaw 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Graham  Hope 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co. ;  and 
Holt  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Sarah  Tytler 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 

H.  B.  Marriott  Watson 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Mrs.  Alexander 
(Hutchinson  &  Co.;   and 
Henry     Holt    &     Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

A  Allardyce 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 


A.  E.  W.  Mason  and  A.  Lang 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 


G.  Norway 

(Jarrold  &  Sons) 

Booth  Tarkington 

(John  Murray ;   and  Me- 
Clure  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Russia-Peter  the  Great  (Alexis). 


Ditto       (from  late  Seventeenth 
Century). 

Peter  the   Great  and  his   son 
Alexis. 

Last  days  of  Peter  the  Great. 


Time  of  George  I.  (Oxford  and 
London). 

Ditto  (Lost  Jacobite  Papers — 
London  district). 

Ditto  (London  and    South    of 
England — Jacobites). 


Ditto  (Accession  up  to  Der- 
wentwater  Rebellion — Ja- 
cobites in  London  and 
Highlands). 

Ditto  (Paris  and  London,  1714- 
15.  Jacobites  and  Hano- 
verians). 

Ditto  (London,  Paris,  &c.,  from 
1719.  — Jacobite  atmo- 
sphere). 

Ditto  (Cornish  Jacobites). 


Bath-early  Eighteenth  Century. 


a  In  the  volume  "  Alarums  and  Excursions." 


8i 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY-owfc»K«*. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  RAIDERS 

*THE   DARK    o'    THE 
MOON 

*ROB  ROY 


•DOROTHY  FORSTER 


A    LOYAL    LITTLE 
MAID 

To  ARMS  1 


a*  CLEMENTINA 
A  JACOBITE  EXILE 

•MONSIEUR  MARTIN 
*FOR  THE  WHITE  ROSE 

TIMES    OF    CHARLES 
XII. 


b  A    KING    AND    His 
CAMPAIGNERS 

*  LE  CHEVALIER  D'HAR- 

MENTHAL 


S.  R.  Crockett 
(Fisher  Unwin ;  Macmil- 
lan  &  Co. ;  and  Harper 
&  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Sarah  Tytler 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

A.  Balfour 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

A.  E.  W.  Mason 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  F.  A. 
Stokes  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.  S .  A. ) 

(Wymond  Carey 
(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons ; 
and    G.    P.    Putnam's 
Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Z.  Topelius  (trans.) 

(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co., 
Chicago) 

W.  von  Heidenstam  (trans.) 
(Duckworth  &  Co.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  and 
Little,    Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Galloway  —  early    Eighteenth 
Century. 


The  Jacobites.     (Northumber- 
land, Glasgow,  &c.) 

Ditto  (Lord  Derwentwater  and 
the  Northumbrian  rising). 


Ditto  (Mar's  Rebellion). 


Ditto  (Edinburgh,     Battle    of 
Sheriffmuir,  &c.). 


The  Old  Pretender  and  Princess 
Clementina  Sobieski. 


Charles  XII.  of  Sweden. 


Ditto  (Sweden,   England,  and 
France,  1699 — 1719). 


Ditto. 


Ditto    (Poltawa,    &c.,    1697— 
1718). 

France — the  Regency  (1718). 


a  Decidedly  superior  to  the  same  author's  "  Lawrence  Clavering1'  (also  Jacobite  period). 
b  Short  stories  from  the  author's  "  Karolinerna"  series. 


82 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•THE  REGENT'S  DAUGH- 
TER 


FROM    BEHIND    THE 
ARRAS 

SERVANTS  OF  SIN 


•THE  MISSISSIPPI  BUB- 
BLE 


CERISK 

THE  YEMASSEB 
*FREE  TO  SERVE 

FRANCEZKA 

HALIL  THE  PEDLAR 
KING  FOR  A  SUMMER 

MOHAWKS 


Dumas  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,   Brown,  &   Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Mrs.  Philip  C.  de  Crespigny 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Emerson  Hough 
(Methuen    &    Co. ;     and 
Bowen  -  Merrill      Co., 
U.S.A.) 

G.  T.  Whyte  Melville 
(Thacker  &  Co.;   Ward, 
Lock,  &  Co.;  and  Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  G.  Simms 
(J.  W.  Lovell,  New  York) 

E.  Rayner 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons ;  and 
Small  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

M.  E.  Seawell 
(Grant     Richards ;     and 
Bowen  -  Merrill       Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

M.  Jokai  (trans.) 
(Jarrold  &  Sons) 

E.  Pickering 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
Lee  &Shepard,  U.S.A.) 

Miss  Braddon 
(J.  &  R.   Maxwell;   and 
Harper  &  Bros. ,  U.  S.  A. ) 


France — the  Regency  (1719). 

Ditto  (about  1720). 

Ditto  (Plague  at  Marseilles). 

Ditto  (John  Law) 


France  (Duke  of  Orleans  and 
Mississippi  Bubble  period), 
West  Indies,  and  England 
(Jacobite  intrigues). 

South  Carolina,  1715. 
Colonial  New  York. 


Continental  Europe,  1726 — 41 
(Voltaire,  &c.). 


Stambul,  1730. 

Corsica  (Rebellion  of  1735). 


London  in  days  of  Bolingbroke 
and  Walpole.  Begins  1709, 
but  mainly  1726  onwards 
(George  I.— II.). 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  MISER'S  DAUGH- 
TER 


THE    WORLD    WENT 
VERY  WELL  THEN 


•HEART    OF    MID- 
LOTHIAN 


WlLLOWDENE   WILL 

NED  LEGER 

RODERICK  RANDOM 
TREASURE  TROVE 

WHERE    HONOUR 
LEADS 

*THE  HOUSE  DIVIDED 
*  HETTY  WESLEY 

LADY  GRIZEL 
THYRA  VARRICK 


Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons; 
Gibbings    &    Co.;    and 
Lippincott&  Co., U.S.A.) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus;  and 
Harper&  Bros., U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Halliwell  Sutcliffe 
(C.  A.  Pearson) 


G.  Manville  Fenn 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Smollett 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

S.  Lover 

(Constable  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Marian  Francis 
(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 

H.  B.  Marriott  Watson 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

A.  T.  Quiller-Couch 
(Harper  &  Bros. ;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

Lewis  Wingfield 
(Bentley,  1877) 

Amelia  E.  Barr 

(Fisher  Unwin  :  and  J.  F. 
Taylor  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Time  of  George  II.   (London 
and  Jacobitism,  1744). 


Ditto  (Deptford, 


Ditto  (Porteous  Riots). 


Ditto  (Jacobite  Highwayman, 
1 745 — Cumberland  and 
London). 

Ditto  (England  and  Spain). 


Ditto  (Carthagena). 

Ditto  (Fontenoy). 

Ditto        ditto. 

Ditto  (Social  life). 


Lincolnshire  home  life  of  the 
Wesleys,  from  1723, 


Bath,  &c.,  1747—65  (Time  of 
Earl  Chatham). 

Scottish  life  in  the  '45  Rebellion 
period. 


G — 2 


84 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


FOR  THE  WHITE  ROSE 
OF  ARNO 


*WAVERLEY 


MISTRESS    NANCY 
MOLESWORTH 


*POOR  SONS  OF  A  DAY 


THE    FORTUNES    OF 
CLAUDE 

A    HERO    OF    THE 
HIGHLANDS 

A  LOST  LADY  OF  OLD 
YEARS 

•RlCROFT  OF  WlTHENS 


DENOUNCED 


SPANISH  JOHN 


*THE  MASTER  OF  BAL- 

LANTRAE 


*AN  EXILED  SCOT 


SIR  SERGEANT 


Owen  Rhoscomyl 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 


Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Joseph  Hocking 

(J.  Bowden  ;  and  Double- 
day  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Allan  McAulay 
(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.) 

Edgar  Pickering 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

J.  Buchan 
(John  Lane) 

Halliwell  Sutcliffe 
(Fisher  Unwin;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

William  McLennan 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 


R.  L.  Stevenson 

(Cassell  &   Co.;    and   C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  A.  Bryden 
(Chatto  &  Windus;   and 
New  Amsterdam  Book 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  L.  Watson 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 


The  Jacobites  (Wynnstay,  &c. 
Welsh  connection  with 
the  Derby  march). 

Ditto  (Stirling,  Edinburgh,  Lon- 
don, &c.). 


Ditto   (Cornwall). 

Ditto  (Highland  plots  and  cam- 
paign). 

Ditto  (Derby,  Culloden,  &c.). 
Ditto   (Culloden). 


Ditto   (Highlands    and    Edin- 
burgh). 

Ditto  (Yorkshire  Moors). 


Ditto   (England    and    France, 
1746). 


Ditto  (Mission  from  Abroad  to 
Charles  Edward — after 
Culloden). 

Ditto  (Adventure  in  the  years 
after  the  '45). 


Ditto   (The  Cape). 


Ditto   (The  year  after  the  '45). 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•KIDNAPPED 


•CATRIONA 


THE  SHOES  OF  FOR- 
TUNE 


THE  BIRTHRIGHT 


•THE    CHAPLAIN    OF 
THE  FLEET 


*MOON  FLEET 


THE  MASTER  OF  THE 
MUSICIANS 


•PEG  WOFFINGTON 


*THE  JESSAMV  BRIDE 


"MEMOIRS   OF    BARRY 
LYNDON 


*THE  BATH  COMEDY 


THE  DUTCHMAN'S 
FIRESIDE 


R.  L.  Stevenson 

(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner'sSons.U.S.A.) 

R.  L.  Stevenson 
(Cassell  &   Co.  ;  and   C. 

Scribner'sSons,  U.S.A.) 

Neil  Munro 

(Isbister  &  Co.;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Joseph  Hocking 

(J.  Bowden ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  Besant  and  J.  Rice 
(Chatto  &    Windus ;   and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Meade  Falkner 
(E.  Arnold) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Reade 
(Chatto  &  Windus;   and 
Dodd,    Mead,    &    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

F.  Frankfort  Moore 

(Hutchinson  &  Co. ;  and 
H.  S.  Stone  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Thackeray 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co. ;  and 
Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 
(Macmillan   &   Co.  ;    and 
F.A.  Stokes  Co.,U.S.A.) 

J.  K.  Paulding 
(C.Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


Scotland,  1751. 


Scotland,    1751  (and  Holland, 
&c.) 


Jacobites,     1755.       (Scotland 
and  France). 


Time  of  John  Wesley  (Corn- 
wall). 


London     and      Epsom,      mid 
Eighteenth  Century. 

Smugglers,  1757  (Dorsetshire). 
Handel,  1742-59. 


The   Stage,   middle  of  Eight- 
eenth Century. 


Goldsmith,  Garrick,  &c. 


Ireland,  England,  and  Abroad 
(George  II.— III.). 


Bath,    middle    of    Eighteenth 
Century. 


New  York,   middle  of  Eight- 
eenth Century. 


86 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


IN  OLD  NEW  YORK 


THE  Bow  OF  ORANGE 
RIBBON 


*  AGNES  SURRIAGE 


a  BOYS  OF  1745 


FIFE  AND  DRUM   AT 
LOUISBOURG 


FAIRFAX 


WITH  CLIVE  IN  INDIA 


'RALPH  DARNELL 


•LIKE  ANOTHER 
HELEN 


OUTSIDE  AND  OVER- 
SEAS 

*FREE  SOIL,  FREE  SOUL 


Wilson  Barrett  and  E.  Barron 
(J.  Macqueen ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Amelia  E.  Barr 
(James  Clarke  &  Co. ;  and 
Dodd,   Mead,    &   Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Edwin  L.  Bynner 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  & 
Co.,  U.S. A.) 

James  Otis 

(Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Macdonald  Oxley 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

J.  E.  Cooke 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.  ; 
andDillingham,U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Meadows  Taylor 

(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co. ;  and 
C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Sydney  C.  Grier 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons ; 
andPage&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  Makgill 

(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Lucas  Cleeve 
(Digby,  Long,  &  Co.) 


New  York,  middle  of  Eight- 
eenth Century. 


Ditto  (from  1749  to  beginning 
of  War). 


Boston,  middle   of  Eighteenth 
Century. 


The  Capture  of  Louisbourg. 
Ditto. 


Valley    of     the    Shenandoah, 
1748-81. 


India   (Beginnings  of   English 
rule). 


Ditto  (Battle  of  Plassey). 


Ditto  (Clive— Old  Calcutta). 


Early  Colonization  of  New  Zea- 
land. (After  the  '45). 

America  (Boston)  and  England 
in  time  of  George  II.  (ends 
with  Earthquake  of  Lisbon). 


a.  The  first  of  bis  "  Stories  of  American  History  "  series  (Estes  &  Co.)- 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

TORN  FROM  THE  FOUN- 
DATIONS 

David  Ker 
(A.  Melrose) 

Brazil  and  Portugal  (Earthquake 
of  Lisbon). 

IVAN  DE  BIRON 

Sir  Arthur  Helps 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Russia,  middle  Eighteenth  Cen- 
tury. 

THE   KING'S    "BLUE 
BOYS  " 

Sheila  E.  Braine 
(Jarrold  &  Sons) 

Frederick  William  I.  of  Prussia 
and  his  Giant  Grenadiers. 

*CONSUELO 

*THE    COUNTESS    OF 
RUDOLSTADT 

)  George  Sand  (trans.) 
(Walter  Scott;  andDodd, 
Mead  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Venice,  Bohemia,  Vienna,  Ber- 
lin,  &c.   (Haydn,   Frederick 
the  Great,  &c.). 

^'FREDERICK    THE 
GREAT     AND     His 
FAMILY 

Louise  Miihlbach  (trans.) 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 

Frederick  the  Great. 

GAVIN  HAMILTON 

M.  E.  Seawall 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

The  Seven  Years  War. 

*A  FALLEN  STAR 

C.  Lowe 
(Downey  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

UNDER  WHICH  KING? 

Hubert  Rendel 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

WITH  FREDERICK  THE 
GREAT 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

b  WITH    WASHINGTON 
IN  THE  WEST 

Edward  Stratemeyer 
(Lee&  Shepard,  U.S.A.) 

Youthful  days  of  George  Wash- 
ington, leading  up  to  Brad- 
dock's  defeat. 

A   SOLDIER   OF  VIR- 
GINIA 

Burton  Egbert  Stevenson 
(Duckworth  &   Co.;  and 
Houghton,Mifflin,U.S.A.) 

North  America  (Braddock's  De- 
feat onwards). 

*AMYOT  BROUGH 

E.  Vincent  Briton 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 

Penrith,  Westerham,  &c.,  and 
Canada  (Wolfe). 

*THE   SEATS   OF   THE 
MIGHTY 

Gilbert  Parker 
(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  Ap- 
pleton &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

The  Taking  of  Quebec. 

a  One  of  L.  Miihlbach's  several  romances  dealing  with  this  period. 
b  One  of  "  The  Colonial  Series  "  (Lee  &  Shepard). 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE    LAST    OF    THE 
MOHICANS 


*THE  STORY  OF  OLD 
FORT  LOUDON 

*A  SOLDIER  OF  MAN- 
HATTAN 


FORTUNE'S  MY  FOE. 


*THE  VIRGINIANS 


*THE  GOLDEN  DOG 
(Le  Chun  cfOr) 


*OLYMPE  DE  CLEVES 


THE    HOUSE    OF  DE 
MAILLY 

THE  LITTLE  HUGUE- 
NOT 


THE    LAST   RECRUIT 
OF  CLARE'S 


THE    FAVOR    OF 
PRINCES 

"MEMOIRS  OF  A  PHY- 
SICIAN 


Fenimore  Cooper 

(Macmillan  &  Co. ;   and 
others) 

C.  E.  Craddock 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Joseph  A.  Altsheler 

(Smith,    Elder;    and    D. 
Appleton  &  Co., U.S.  A.) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 

(Methuen  £  Co. ;  and  Ap- 
pleton &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Thackeray 

(Smith,  Elder, &  Co.;  and 
Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

William  Kirby 


Montcalm,    1757   (Massacre  of 
Fort  William  Henry). 

North  America,   1758  (French 
War). 

Ticonderoga  and  Quebec. 
Cartagena,  1758. 

America  and  England,  George 
II.— III.  (Washington,  &c.). 

Quebec,  in  the  days  of  Louis 


(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and  L.  C.        XV.  (Bigot,  1748). 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  £  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Margaret  H.  Potter 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

Max  Pemberton 

(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Keightley 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
Harper  &  Bros. ,  U.  S.  A. ) 

Mark  L.  Luther 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


France,   Louis  XV.    (Cardinal 
Fleury,  &c.) 


Ditto    (Versailles,    Paris,    and 
Maryland). 

Ditto   (Fontainebleau). 


Marquise  de   Pompadour,   &c. 
(Irish  Brigade  stories). 

Adventure  in  time  of  Louis  XV. 
Louis  XV.— XVI.  (1770—74). 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  QUEEN'S  NECK- 
LACE 


IN  EXITU  ISRAEL 
cTwo  QUEENS 


•THE  KING  WITH  Two 
FACES 


MANY  WAYS  OF  LOVE 
(AT  THE  COURT  OF 
CATHERINE) 

A  FORBIDDEN  NAME 


THE  TURKISH  AUTO- 
MATON 

*THE  VALLEY  OF  DE- 
CISION 


MAMZELLE  FIFINE 


*THE  PRIDE  OF  JEN- 
NICO 

*REDGAUNTLET 


THE  CASTLE  INN 


Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

S.  Baring-Gould 

(Macmillan  &  Co.,  1870) 

J.  G.  L.  Hesekiel  (trans.) 
(Sonnenschein  &  Co. ) 


M.  E.  Coleridge 

(E.   Arnold ;    and   Lane, 
U.S.A.) 

F.  Whishaw 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
F.A.StokesCo.,U.S.A.) 

F.  Whishaw 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Sheila  E.  Braine 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

Edith  Wharton 

(J.  Murray ;  and  C.  Scrib- 
ner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Eleanor  Atkinson 
(Appleton  &  Co.) 

Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Weyman 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 


Court  of  Louis  XVI.  (1784— 
85). 


Church  and  State  in  France, 
1788—89. 

Denmark,  1772  (Caroline  Ma- 
tilda, sister  of  George  III.) ; 
and  France,  1792  (Marie  An- 
toinette). 

Gustavus  III.  of  Sweden. 


Russia,  time  of  Catherine  II. 

Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto        ditto. 


Italian  life,  1774-95.     (Alfieri, 
&c.). 


Girlhood  of  Josephine  in  Mar- 
tinique. 

Moravia,  1771. 


Earlier  period  of  George  III. 
(Scotland  and  Cumber- 
land— Jacobites) . 

Ditto   (Oxfordshire). 


a  Based  on  the  Memoirs  of  Baron  Ivan  M.  Simolin. 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY -continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


CAP'N    NAT'S    TREA- 
SURE 

*THE  ORANGE  GIRL 


THE   ROCK   OF    THE 
LION 

*BARNABY  RUDGB 


•Miss  ANGEL 


THE  FATAL  GIFT 


A  NEST  OF  LINNETS 


L'ELBVE  DE  GARRICK 


AT  WAR  WITH  PON- 

TIAC 


THE  HEROINE  OF  THE 
STRAIT 


A  SPECTRE  OF  POWER 


*THE  VIRGINIA  COME- 
DIANS 


Robert  Leighton 
(S.  W.  Partridge  &  Co.) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

M.  E.  Seawell 
(Harper  &  Brothers) 

Dickens 

(Chapman  &  Hall ;  and 
Crowell&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Miss  Thackeray 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,U.S.A.) 

F.  Frankfort  Moore 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

F.  Frankfort  Moore 

(Hutchinson  &  Co. ;  and 
D.  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Augustin  Filon 

(Armand  Colin  et  Cie, 
Paris) 

Kirk  Munroe 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  C.  Crowley 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

C.  E.  Craddock 

(Houghton,  Mifllin,  &  Co.) 

J.  E.  Cooke 

(D.  Appleton  &  Co. 


Earlier  period  of  George  II L 
(Liverpool,  1776). 

Ditto  (London  actress). 


Ditto  (Siege  of  Gibraltar,  1779 
-83). 

Ditto   (Gordon  Riots). 


Art   (Reynolds    and    Angelica 
Kauffman). 


The  Sisters  Gunning. 


R.  B.  Sheridan,  Johnson,  &c. 
(Bath). 


Sir  Joshua  Reynolds,  Miss 
Bumey,  &c.  (Environs  of 
London,  1780). 

Pontiac's  War. 


Ditto  (Detroit). 


Struggles  of  French  and  English, 
1762.     (Mississippi  Valley). 

Virginia,  1763-65. 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

ALICE  OF   OLD  VIN- 

CENNES 

Maurice  Thompson 
(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  Bowen 
Merrill  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Fort  Vincennes  (Clark's   Con- 
quest). 

BARBARA  LADD 

C.  G.  D.  Roberts 
(Constable    &   Co.  ;    and 
Page,  U.S.A.) 

Connecticut  in  1769,  and  New 
York  during  the  Revolution. 

THB    GREEN    MOUN- 
TAIN BOYS 

Daniel  P.  Thompson 
(H.    M.    CaldweU    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

American     Revolution     (Bur- 
goyne's  Invasion). 

*!N  THE  VALLEY 

Harold  Frederic 
(W.  Heinemann  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto    (before  and  during  War 
—  Hudson  Valley). 

THE  COLONIALS 

Allen  French 
(Grant     Richards  ;      and 
Doubleday      &       Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto   (early  stage  —  Boston). 

FROM    KINGDOM    TO 
COLONY 

Mary  Devereux 
(Little,    Brown,    &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto   (New  England   Life  in 
the  early  days  of  the  Re- 
volution). 

•CARDIGAN 
*THE  MAID  AT  ARMS 

)  R.  W.  Chambers 
f   (Constable    &    Co.  ;    and 
j       Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto   (before  and  during  War 
—New  York,  &c.). 

BRINTON  ELIOT 

J.  E.  Farmer 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto  (America  and  France). 

a  LIONEL  LINCOLN 
*THE  SPY 
*THE  PILOT 

Fenimore  Cooper 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
Houghton,   Mifflin,  & 
Co.,     U.S.A.;    and 
'          others) 

Ditto. 

*  RICHARD  CARVEL 

Winston  Churchill 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto   (Maryland  and  the  Lon- 
don of  Horace  Walpole). 

*HUGH  WYNNE 

S.  Weir  Mitchell 
(Fisher  Unwin  ;  and  Cen- 
tury Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (George    Washington  — 
Philadelphia). 

a  "  Lionel  Lincoln"  treats  of  Boston  in  the  time  of  Bunker  Hill  (1775);  "The  Spy"  of  Hudson 
River  district  (1780) ;  and  "  The  Pilot "  of  Paul  Jones  (1779). 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

•A  GREAT  TREASON 

Mary  A.  M.  Hoppus 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

American  P.evolution  (Beae- 
dict  Arnold). 

CADET  DAYS 

General  Charles  King 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

Ditto  (West  Point,  1780). 

IN  BLUE  AND  WHITE 

Elhridge  S.  Brooks 
(Lothrop  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (George  Washington,  La- 
fayette, Arnold,  &c.) 

•THE  SON  OF  SARATOGA 

Joseph  A.  Altsheler 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 

Ditto  (Burgoyne's  Surrender, 
1777)- 

THE  HERITAGE 

Burton  Egbert  Stevenson 
(Houghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (Battle  of  Yorktown  and 
later  —  St  Glair's  Expe- 
dition). 

AT    THE    SIEGE    OF 
QUEBEC 

James  Otis 
(Penn  Publishing  Co.,U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (Arnold,  Montgomery, 
&c.,  in  1775). 

PHILIP  WINWOOD 

R.  N.  Stephens 
(Chatto  &  Windus  ;   and 
L.C.Page&Co.,U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (New  York  and  London, 
1763—86). 

LOVE  LIKE  A  GIPSY 

Bernard  Capes 
(Constable  &  Co.) 

Ditto  (America  and  England, 
1778  onwards). 

JOSCELYN  CHESHIRE 

Sara  B.  Kennedy 
(Gay  &  Bird  ;  and  Double- 
day  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto   (North  Carolina). 

DORIS  KINGSLEY 

Emma  Rayner 
(G.  W.  Dillingham  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Ditto  (South  Carolina  about 
1776). 

JANICE  MEREDITH 

P.  L.  Ford 
(Constable  &  Co.  ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (Washington  —  New  Jer- 
sey and  New  York). 

UNDER    COLONIAL 
COLORS 

A  LIEUTENANT  UNDER 
WASHINGTON 

IE.  T.  Tomlinson 
(Houghton,  Mifflin,&Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Ditto  (Arnold's  expedition  to 
Quebec,  1775;  and  Wash- 
ington in  the  Brandy  wine 
to  Valley  Forge  period). 

a  WASHINGTON'S  YOUNG 
AIDS 

E.  T.  Tomlinson 
(Wilde  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto  (New  Jersey  Campaign, 
1776—77). 

a  One  of  the  author's  "  War  of  the  Revolution  "  series  (Wilde  &  Co.) 


93 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  TORY  LOVER 


A  SONG  OF  A  SINGLE 
NOTE 

HORSE  SHOE  ROBIN- 
SON 

fiTHE  FORAYERS 
EUTAW 

ON  GUARD  !  AGAINST 
TORY  AND  TARLE- 
TON 

THE  STIRRUP  CUP 


THE  DUKE  OK  STOCK- 
BRIDGE 


CALVERT    OF    STRA- 
THORE 

*ANGE  PITOU 


*LA    COMTESSE    DE 
CHARNY 


•CHEVALIER  DEMAISON 
ROUGE 


Sarah  Orne  Jewett 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co. ;  and 
Honghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Amelia  E.  Barr 

(Dodd,  Mead,  £  Co.) 

J.  P.  Kennedy 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

1W.  G.  Simms 
(J.  W.  Lovell,  New  York) 

John  P.  True 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co.) 


J.  Audrey  Tyson 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 


E.  Bellamy 

(Gay  &  Bird  ;  and  Silver, 
Burdett,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Carter  Goodloe 

(C.  Scribner's  Sons) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

D  umas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


American     Revolution    (Paul 
Jones). 


Ditto   (New  York). 
Ditto   (South  Carolina). 

Ditto   (War  in  South). 


Ditto   (Greene's  defeat  of  Corn- 
wallis  in  the  Carolina^). 


Pennsylvania  and  New  York, 
1777  (Aaron  Burr  and  Theo- 
dosia  Prevost). 

Massachusetts  (Shay's  Rebel- 
lion). 


American    Embassy    at    Paris 
during  the  Revolution. 

French      Revolution      (1789 — 
Storming  of  the  Bastile). 


Ditto  (1790—91.     The  arrest 
of  King  and  Queen). 


Ditto  (1793— Execution  of  Marie 
Antoinette). 


a  The  two  last  of  a  series  covering  the  American  Revolution  period. 


94 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY-eM*MM«Z. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a*  THE    STORY    OF    A 
PEASANT 

•THE  REDS  OFTHE  MIDI 
THE  TERROR 
THE  WHITE  TERROR 

*A    TALE    OF    TWO 
CITIES 

•L'AN  '93 


FOES    OF    THE    RED 
COCKADE 

MY  LADY  MARCIA 


•THE  ATELIER  DU  LYS 


ON  THE  EDGE  OF  THE 
STORM 


•CITOYENNE     JACQUE- 
LINE 


•THE  RED  COCKADE 


MADEMOISELLE     MA- 

THILDE 


Erckmann-Chatrian  (trans.) 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.) 


Felix  Gras  (trans.) 
( W.  Heinemann ;  and  Ap- 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Dickens 

(Chapman  &  Hall ;  and 
Crowell  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Victor  Hugo  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Miss  Roberts 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Miss  Roberts 

(Warne  &  Co.;  and  Holt, 
U.S.  A.) 

S.  Tytler 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


Stanley  Weyman 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Henry  Kingsley 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans&Co.jU-S.A.) 


French  Revolution  (1789-1815). 


Ditto  (The  Marseilles  Battalion; 
the  Terror;  and  the  Royal- 
ists in  the  South). 


Ditto  (London  and  Paris). 
Ditto  (La  Vended). 

Ditto  (St.   Malo,  La  Vendee, 
and  Paris) 

Ditto   (Experience  of  English 
girl). 

Ditto  (Art  student  in  the  Terror). 
Ditto  (Gascony). 


Ditto  (Paris,  1792—3.  Char- 
lotte Corday,  the  Luxem- 
bourg, &c.). 

Ditto  (Valley  of  the  Rhone, 
1789). 

Ditto  (England  and  France — 
Marat). 


a.  Collective  title  of  the  four  tales:—"  The  States-General"  (1789),  "The  Country  in  Danger"  (1792), 
"Year  One  of  die  Republic"  (1793),  and  "Citizen  Bonaparte"  (1794-1815).  Erckmann-Chatrian's 
"  Madame  Th^rftse  "  (translation)  is  another  good  story  of  this  period  (1792). 


95 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
FRANCOIS  FOUNDER 

*A  ROMANCE  OF  DIJON 


*THB    DREAM    CHAR- 
LOTTE 


*A  STORM-RENT  SKY 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
THE  COMTE  DE  LA 

MUETTE 


OUR  LADY  OF  DARK- 
NESS 


THE  RED  SHIRTS 


A  GIRL  OF  THE  MUL- 
TITUDE (EGLEE) 


THE  LITTLE  SAINT  OF 
GOD 

ST.  KATHERINE'S   BY 
THE  TOWER 


ROBERT  TOURNAY 


*AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE 
GUILLOTINE 


S.  Weir  Mitchell 

(Macmillan  &  Co.;  and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

M.  Betham  Edwards 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

M.  Betham  Edwards 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

M.  Betham  Edwards 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 

Bernard  Capes 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons  ; 
and  Dodd,  Mead,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Bernard  Capes 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons  ; 
and  Dodd,  Mead,  & 
Co.,  U.S. A.) 

Paul  Gaulot  (trans.) 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

W.  H.  Trowbridge 
(Fisher  Unwin ;  and  Wes- 
sels  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Lady  F.  Cunningham 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus;  and 
Harper&Bros.,U.S.A.) 

William  Sage 
(Houghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co.) 


Harold  Spender 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


French  Revolution  (Paris  during 
the  Terror). 


Ditto   (Early  Revolutionary  for- 
ces in  Provincial  France). 

Ditto     (Normandy  —  time    of 
Charlotte  Corday). 

Ditto   (Danton's  career). 
Ditto   (The  Terror). 


Ditto  (England— Bury  St.  Ed- 
munds, and  France.  Pe- 
riod generally). 


Ditto  (The  Terror— Batz  con- 
spiracy). 

Ditto   (Aristocrats  in  captivity, 
&c.,  1793). 


Ditto   (The  Chouans). 


Ditto    (England,  1793). 


General  Hoche,  Danton,  Robes- 
pierre, &c.  ( 1 789  to  end  of  the 
Terror). 

Robespierre,  1794. 


96 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a  LA  GUBRRE  DBS  PAY- 
SANS  (L)E  BOEREN- 
KRYG) 

•THE  RHYMER 


THE  PARSON'S  DAUGH- 
TER 


*A    FIRST    FLEET 
FAMILY 


*THE  MUTINEER 


THE  MAID  OF  MAIDEN 
LANE 


ON    THE    FRONTIER 
WITH  ST.  CLAIR 

*  ROPES  OF  SAND 


A  BUSINESS  IN  GREAT 
WATERS 

THE  WHITES  AND  THE 
BLUES 


°THE  MILLS  OF  GOD 


Hendrik  Conscience 
(C.  Levy,  Paris) 


Allan  McAulay 
(Fisher    Unwin ;    and    C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Dutton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Louis    Becke    and    Walter 
Jeffery 

(Fisher    Unwin ;    and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Louis    Becke    and    Walter 
Jeffery 

(Fisher  Unwin;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Amelia  E.  Barr 

(Fisher  Unwin ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Wood 
(W.  A.  Wilde  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

R.  B.  Francillon 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Julian  Corbet t 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Elinor  Macartney  Lane 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 


French  in  Belgium. 


Robert  Burns,  the  Poet  (1787 
onwards). 


George  Romney,  the  Painter. 


Founding  of  New  South  Wales 
(1788). 


The  Mutiny  of  the  "  Bounty 
(1789). 


New  York,  1791. 


Ohio  district,  1792  (St.  Glair's 
campaign  against  the  Indians). 

North  Devon,  1793. 


Sussex  Smugglers  and  French 
Conspirators. 

Rise  of  Napoleon  (1793-99). 


Virginia,  England,  and  Conti- 
nental Europe  (The  Prince 
Regent,  Sheridan,  Napoleon, 
Goethe,  &c.) 


a  Has  been  translated  into  English  under  the  title  of  "  Veva." 


97 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  KING'S  OWN 


ADMIRAL 


*THE  BATTLE  OF  THE 

STRONG 


IN  PRESS-GANG  DAYS 
THE  KING'S  DEPUTY 
A  KING'S  WOMAN 

"KlLGORMAN 
"RORY  O'MORB 


KATHLEEN    MAVOUR- 

NEEN 

Two  CHIEFS  OF  DUN- 
BOY 


*THE  REBELS 
*CORRAGEEN 


Marryat 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.  ;  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.  ;  and 
others) 

Douglas  Sladen 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 

Gilbert  Parker 

(Methuen  &  Co.  ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Pickering 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  A.  Hinkson 

(Lawrence  &  Bullen :  and 
McClurg&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Katherine  Tynan 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 

T.  Baines  Reed 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

S.  Lover 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Randal  McDonnell 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

J.  A.  Froude 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

M.  McD.  Bodkin 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.) 

Mrs.  Orpen 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  New 
Amsterdam  Book  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Mutiny  at  the  Nore,  1 797. 


Nelson,  1798-99. 


Jersey,  &c.f  end  of  Eighteenth 
Century. 


Battle  of  the  Nile,  &c. 
Dublin  in  time  of  Grattan. 

Time  of  Lord    Edward    Fitz- 
gerald. 

Ditto        ditto. 

Ireland— the  '98  Rebellion. 

Ditto  (Wolfe  Tone). 

Ditto. 


Ditto  (strong  "  Rebel "  stand- 
point). 

Ditto  (strong  "Loyalist "ditto). 


98 


EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*Up  FOR  THE  GREEN 
*THE  CROPPY 

*CROPPIES,  LIE  DOWN 
THE  PJKEMEN 

THE  ROUND  TOWER 


"THE  INIMITABLE  MRS. 
MASSINGHAM 

THE  COMPANIONS  OF 
JEHU 


*THE  CONQUEROR 
LITTLE  JARVIS 


THE    HUNGARIAN 
BROTHERS 

"TlPPOO   SULTAUN 


THE  DUKE'S  OWN 


A  FREE  LANCE  IN  A 
FAR  LAND 


H.  A.  Hinkson 

(Lawrence  &  B alien) 

John  and  Michael  Banim 
(Henry    Colburn,    1828 ; 
and  Duffy,  Dublin,  1865) 

William  Buckley 
(Duckworth  &  Co.) 

S.  R.  Keightley 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.  ;  and 
Brentano's,  New  York) 

Florence   Scott    and    Alma 
Hodge 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Herbert  Compton 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Gertrude  Atherton 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

M.  E.  Seawell 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 


A.  M.  Porter 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

Meadows  Taylor 

(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co.) 

J.  Percy-Groves 

(Griffith  &   Farran ;    and 
Dutton,  U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Compton 
(Cassell  &  Co.) 


Ireland— the  '98  Rebellion. 
Ditto. 

Ditto  (Castlereagh). 
Ditto  (County  Down). 

Ditto  (French  Expedition). 


Gretna  Green  and  Botany  Bay, 
1799. 

Napoleon    in    Egypt    (1799 — 
1800). 


America — Alexander  Hamilton. 


American  quarrel  with  France 
(Constellation  cruises,  1798- 
1800). 

Vienna  in  the  last  decade  of  the 
century. 

Wars  in  India  (Tippoo  Sahib). 


Tippoo  Sahib,  '798-99  (Siege 
of  Seringapatam). 


Adventure  in  llindostan  (The 
Mahrattas,  &c.)  in  the  last 
decade  of  the  i8th  century  to 
1804. 


99 


NINETEENTH   CENTURY   (EARLY  AND  MID). 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•THE  CHOUANS 


RODNEY  STONE 


UNDER    CHEDDAR 
CLIFFS 

MY    LORDS    OF 
STROGUE 

*THE  ISLAND  OF  SOR- 
ROW 

THE  TRAIL  OF   THE 
GRAND  SEIGNEUR 


BLENNERHASSETT 


A  SON  OF  THE  REVO- 
LUTION 

IN    THE    EAGLE'S 
TALON 


•PHILIP    NOLAN'S 
FRIENDS 


a* THE  CROSSING 


AT    THE    POINT    OF 
THE  BAYONET 


Balzac  (trans.) 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,   Brown    &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Conan  Doyle 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Appleton&Co.,U.S.A.) 

Edith  Seeley 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 

Lewis  Wingfield 
(Bentley,  1879) 

George  Gilbert 
(J-  Long) 

Olin  L.  Lyman 
(New  Amsterdam  Book  Co.) 


C.  F.  Pidgin 

(C.  M.  Clark   Publishing 
Co.,  Boston) 

Elbridge  S.  Brooks 
(Wilde  &  Co.,  Boston) 

Sheppard  Stevens 

(Little,    Brown,    &    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Hale 
(Little,    Brown,    &    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Winston  Churchill 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


Brittany  in  1800. 


English  Social  Life,  beginning 
of  Nineteenth  Century  (Sus- 
sex). 

Mendip  district  in  time  of  Han- 
nah More. 

Ireland  at  the  Union. 


Robert  Emmet,  the  Irish  patriot, 
1797—1808. 

French  Refugees  on  the  shores 
of  Lake  Ontario,  beginning 
of  Nineteenth  Century. 

America — time  of  Aaron  Burr. 


Ditto        ditto. 


America  and  Paris  prior  to  and 
during  the  Louisiana  purchase. 


Time  of  the  Louisiana  purchase, 
1803. 


Louisiana  in  the  period  of  the 
purchase,  and  the  moulding 
of  National  sentiment  in  the 
Mississippi  region. 

Battle  of  Assaye,  &c. 


a  The  second,  in  historical  sequence,  of  the  series  in  which  Richard  Carvel  and  The  Crisis  are  first 
and  fourth  respectively. 

K — 2 


100 


NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•THE  HOUR  AND  THE 
MAN 

ROMANCE    OF    THE 
FIRST  CONSUL 

GENERAL  GEORGE 


*THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
A  GOLDSMITH 

*THE    FORTUNES    OF 
FIFI 

*PlCCIOLA 


•UNCLE  BERNAC 


A  BOY  OF  THE  FIRST 
EMPIRE 


WHEN    GEORGE    III. 
WAS  KING 

*A  FRIEND  OF  NELSON 
*SPRINGHAVEN 

<T*TRAFALGAR 


Harriet  Martineau 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Mathilda  Mailing  (trans.) 
(W.  Heinemann) 

Moreton  Hall 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

M.  H.  Bourchier 
(Elkin  Mathews) 

M.  E.  Seawell 
(Bobbs-Merrill  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

X.  B.  Saintine  (trans.) 
(Sampson    Low    &    Co.; 
and    McClurg   &    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Conan  Doyle 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.; 
and  Appleton  &  Co.; 
U.S.A.) 

Elbridge  S.  Brooks 
(S.  W.  Partridge  &  Co.; 
andCenturyCo.,  U.S.A.) 

A.  Sagon 

(Sands  &  Co.) 

Horace  G.  Hutchinson 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

R.  D.  Blackmore 

(Sampson,  Low,  &  Co.; 
and  Harper  &  Bros., 
U.S.A.) 

j  B.  Pe*rez  Galdos  (trans.) 
I      (Trubner    &    Co.,    1884; 

and  W.  S.  Gottsberger, 

U.S.A.) 


Toussaint    L'Ouverture   (Hayti 
and  France,  1791 — 1803). 

Napoleon,  Josephine,  &c. 


George  Cadoudal,  the  Chouan 
Leader. 

France  —  Royalist    Conspiracy 
under  the  Consulate. 

Parisian  actress  in  1804  (Napo- 
leon). 

Earlier  Napoleonic  period. 


Ditto   (Schemes  for  Invasion  of 
England). 


Napoleon,  Fouche",   &c.   (1806 


Time  of  Nelson  (Cornwall). 


Ditto  (Sussex — Ashdown  Forest 
district). 

Ditto  (Trafalgar). 


Ditto        ditto. 


a  One  of  the  series  (20  vols.)  "  Episodios  Nacionales,"  dealing  with  the  Spanish  War  of  Independence. 


IOI 


N INETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


AFLOAT  WITH  NELSON 
*  THE  NAMELESS  CASTLE 

LAZARRE 


•RUHE  IST  DIE  ERSTE 
BXJRGERPFLICIIT 

*ISEGRIMM 


LOVE  AND  HONOUR 

A  FIDDLER  OF  LUGAU 
RAFAEL 

a*SARAGOSSA 


THE  FOLLIES  OF  CAP- 
TAIN DALY 


TOM    BURKE    OF 

"OURS" 


THE  AIDE-DE-CAMP 


Charles  H.  Eden 
(J.  Macqueen) 

M.  Jokai  (trans.) 

(Jarrold     &     Sons ;     and 
Doubleday&Co.,U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Catherwood 

(Grant  Richards ;  and 
Bowen  -  Merrill  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


I  Wilibald  Alexis 
J     (Janke,  Berlin) 


M.  E.  Carr 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Margaret  Roberts 

(Hatchards;  andT.  Whit- 
taker,  U.S.  A.) 

Ernest  Daudet  (trans.) 
(Sampson  Low  £  Co.) 

B.  Perez  Galdos  (trans.) 
(Little.    Brown,    £    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

F.  Norreys  Connell 
(Grant  Richards) 


Charles  Lever 

(Downey  &  Co.;  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

James  Grant 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 


Time  of  Nelson  (Nile  to  Trafal- 
gar). 

Daughter  of  Louis  XVI.  (Hun- 
gary in  Napoleonic  period). 


Son  of  Louis  XVI.  (France  and 
America,  1795 — *Sl5). 


Prussia — Invasion  of  Napoleon, 
&c. 


Westphalia  in  time  of  Jerome 
Bonaparte. 


Life  in  Saxony  during  the  Na- 
poleonic Wars. 


Spain — Charles  IV.  and  Napo- 
leon. 

Siege  of  Saragossa,  1808. 


Adventure  Abroad,  1795 — 1815 
(Peninsular  War  and  Water- 
loo). 

French  Wars  (Consulate— Em- 
pire). 


Battle  of  Maida,  1806. 


a  One  of  the  series  (20  vols.)  "  Episodios  Nacionales,"  dealing  with  the  Spanish  War  of  Independence. 


102 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE   OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


EL  OMBU 
•CHARLES  O'MALLEY 


•Tim    ROMANCE    OF 
WAR 

WITH  MOORE  AT  Co- 

RUNNA 

UNDER    WELLING- 
TON'S COMMAND 

•SONS  OF  THE  SWORD 


•A  CASTLE  IN  SPAIN 
•DONA  YSABEL 

THE    STORY    OF    A 
SCOUT 

THE  BIVOUAC 
ALICE  LORRAINE 


•ADVENTURES    OF 
HARRY  REVEL 


CAPTAIN  SWORD  (in 
"  Alarums  and  Ex- 
cursions ") 

AT  ODDS 


W.  H.  Hudson 
(Duckworth  &  Co.) 

Charles  Lever 
(Downey  &  Co. ;    Little. 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

James  Grant 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

}  G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and 
C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Margaret  L.  Woods 

( W.  Heinemann  ;  and  Mc- 
Clure,  U.S.A.) 

Bernard  Capes 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.) 

Mathilda  Mailing 
(Ernst  Bejesen) 

J.  Finnemore 

(C.  Arthur  Pearson) 

W.  H.  Maxwell 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

R.  D.  Blackmore 
(Sampson    Low    &    Co. 
and  Harper,  U.S.A.) 

A.  T.  Quiller-Couch 

(Cassell  &   Co.  ;   and  C. 
Scribuer's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  B.  Marriott  Watson 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 


Baroness  J.  von  Tautphceus 
(Macmillan    &   Co.;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S. A). 


Argentina,   1807   (English   In- 
vasion). 

Peninsular  War 


Ditto  (Highlanders  in  Spain). 
Ditto 

Ditto  (Sir  John  Moore). 


Ditto  (the  Dauphin  in  convent 
near  Talavera). 

Ditto    (Ney,      Massena,     &c. 
1808— 10). 

Ditto  (Vittoria). 


Ditto  (short  stories  of  Vittoria, 
Badajos,  &c.). 

England  (the  Downs)  and  Spain 
in  War  time. 


Plymouth   and   Spain   (Ciudad 
Rodrigo). 

Military  adventure  in  Peninsu- 
lar War  (Marshal  Marmont). 


South  Germany — Siege  of  Ulm, 
&c.  (Hofer). 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*WlTH      THE      RED 

EAGLE 

*A  RED  BRIDAL 
*WAR  AND  PEACE 


KENNETH 


THROUGH  RUSSIAN 
SNOWS 


*BARLASCH    OF    THE 
GUARD 


THE  PALACE  OF  SPIES 
"THE  WESTCOTES 


CROWBOROUGH     BEA- 
CON 


AN      OCEAN      FREE 
LANCE 

LAFITTE    OF    LOUISI- 
ANA 

aBov  SOLDIERS  OF  1812 


LOVE    THRIVES    IN 
WAR 


)  W.  Westall 

f     (Chatto  &  Windus) 

Tolstoy  (trans.) 

(Walter  Scott ;  W.  Heine- 
mann ;  C.  Scribner's 
Sons,  U.S.A ;  and 
others) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Seton  Merriman 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
McClure,  Phillips,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

II.  Compton 

(Treherne  &  Co.) 

A.  T.  Quiller-Couch 

(Arrowsmith  ;  and  Coate? 
£Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Horace  G.  Hutchinson 
(Smith,  Elder,  £  Co.) 


Clark  Russell 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

Mary  Devereux 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co.) 

E.  T.  Tomlinson 
(Lee  &  Shepard,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  C.  Crowley 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co.) 


The    Tyrolese    struggle   under 
Hofer,  1809. 


Austerlitz,  Borodino,  and  Mos- 
cow (1805—20). 


Napoleon's  Russian  Campaign. 
Ditto. 

Ditto   (chiefly  Dantzic). 
Caroline  of  Brunswick,  1810. 


Somersetshire,     1810    (French 
prisoners). 


Sussex  and  Tunbridge  Wells 
during  Napoleonic  Wars  (Re- 
vivalism and  Smuggling). 

Privateering  in  1812. 


Jean     Lafitte     and    Napoleon 
(France  and  New  Orleans). 

America  v.   England — War  of 
1812. 

Ditto        ditto. 


a  One  of  the  "  War  of  1812  "  series  (Lee  and  Sheparcl). 


104 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLK  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*A   HERALD   OF  THE 
WEST 

D'RI  AND  I 


WILL  o'  THE  WASP 
JACK  AND  His  ISLAND 

<zTHE  BIG  BROTHER 

THE  ERRAND  BOY  OF 
ANDREW  JACKSON 

*SMITH  BRUNT 

*VOR  DEM  STURM 
*Ix  THE  YEAR  '13 

*REGINA  (Katzensttg) 
•ANGELOT 

LE  CAPITAINE  SANS- 


Joseph  A.  Altsheler 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 

Irving  Bacheller 

(Grant  Richards  ;  and  Lo- 
throp  Publishing  Co. , 
U.S.A.) 

Robert  C.  Rogers 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

Lucy  M.  Thruston 

(Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

G.  C.  Eggleston 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

W.  O.  Stoddard 

(Lothrop  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Waldron  R.  Post 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

Theodor  Fontane 
(W.  Hertz,  Berlin) 

Fritz  Reuter  (trans.) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
Munro,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Sudermann  (trans.) 
(J.  Lane) 

Eleanor  C.  Price 
(George     Newnes ;     and 
Crowell&Co.,U.S.A.) 

G.  Augustin-Thierry 

(Armand  Colin  et  Cie, 
Paris) 


America   v.  England — War    of 
1812 


Ditto        ditto. 


Ditto        ditto. 


British  attack  on  Baltimore. 


Indian  War  in  America,  1813. 


General    Jackson     in     1814  — 
Mobile  and  New  Orleans. 


America  and  England  (1806 — 
15),  naval  engagements. 

Prussia,  1812—13. 


French  occupation  of  Mecklen- 
burg. 


Polish    Prussia   in   Napoleonic 
period. 

Provincial  France  ( Anjou)  under 
First  Empire,  i8ll. 


France — Veadeans  in  1813. 


a  Two  other  Juvenile  tales  by  the  same   author,  viz.,  "Signal  Boys"  and  "  Captain  Sara"  (both 
published  by  G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons),  deal  with  the  1812—14  period. 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*EXPLOITS   OF   BRIGA- 
DIER GERARD 

*THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
GERARD 

*THE  SHADOW  OF  THE 
SWORD 


GRANTLEY  FENTON 


VENGEANCE  is  MINE 


FACE  TO  FACE  WITH 
NAPOLEON 

IN    THE    YEAR    OF 
WATERLOO 

ONE  OK  THE  28TH 


*THE  BLOCKADE 

«*THK  CONSCRIPT 
*  WATERLOO 
•STORIES  OF  WATERLOO 

£*THE  GREAT  SHADOW 


Conan  Doyle 
(George  Newnes ;  andAp 
pleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  McClure,  Phillips, 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

R.  Buchanan 

(Chatto  &  Windus;    and 
Appleton  &  Co.,  U.  S.  A.) 

M.  M.  Blake 
(Jarrold  &  Sons) 

A.  Balfour 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  New 
Amsterdam  Book  Co.. 
U.S.A.) 


Napoleon  and  his  time.  (Short 
tales  illustrating  the  Na- 
poleonic Wars  generally). 


Ditto   (Elba  period). 

Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto        ditto. 


O.  V.  Caine  Ditto. 

(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.;  and  A.  I. 
Bradley  &  Co.  .U.S.A.) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Erckmann-Chatrian  (trans.) 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and  C. 

Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

(Erckmann-Chatrian  (trans.) 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

W.  H.  Maxwell 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Conan  Doyle 

(J.  W.  Arrowsmith  ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 


Ditto  (Waterloo). 
Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto        ditto. 

Ditto        ditto. 
Ditto        ditto. 


a  These  two  books  depict  the  period  September,  1812 — July,  1815. 

b  One  of  the  tales  iu  "  Adventures  of  Gerard"  (see  above)  deals  with  Waterloo. 


io6 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY 


TITLE  OP   BOOK. 


AUTHOR   AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*Sx.  IVES 


•THE    BONNET    CON- 
SPIRATORS 


CHEAP  JACK  ZITA 


'LSS  MlSERABLES 


•THE    MANCHESTER 
MAN 


•VANITY  FAIR 

MIS'ESS  JOY 
•YEOMAN  FLEETWOOD 


*A  LADY  OF  THE  RE- 
GENCY 


* THE  QUEEN  CAN  DO 
No  WRONG 


b  TAKEN    FROM    THE 
ENEMY 


R.  L.  Stevenson 

(W.  Heinemann ;  and  C. 
Set-toner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Violet  A.  Simpson 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.) 


S.  Baring-Gould 

(Methuen  &  Co. ;  and  Tail 
&  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Victor  Hugo  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Banks 
(Abel  Hey  wood ;  and  Geo. 
Newnes) 

Thackeray 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co. ;  and 
Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

John  Le  Breton 
(J.  Macqueen) 

M.  E.  Francis  (Mrs.  Blundell) 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Mrs.  Stepney  Rawson 
(Hutchinson  &  Co.;   and 
Harper&  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Compton 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


Henry  Newbolt 

(Chatto  &  Windus;  and 
Rand,  McNally,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


French   prisoner    in    England, 
1813—14. 


French  and  English  on  Sussex 
Coast,  1815  (Napoleon  hiding 
on  French  shore). 

The  Fen  Riots. 


France,  1815. 


Manchester,   early    Nineteenth 
Century  (Peterloo). 


"High   Life,"   George   III.- 
IV.  (Waterloo,  &c.) 


Last  Years  of  the  Regency. 
Ditto  (Lancashire  and  Brighton). 


Time  of  George  IV.  (Queen 
Caroline — last  few  years 
of  her  life). 

Ditto  (Queen  Caroline,  Prin- 
cess Charlotte,  Brougham, 
&c). 

Ditto  (Plot  to  rescue  Napoleon, 
1821). 


a  This  book  is  divided  into  three  parts.    Part  I.  covers  1796 — 1806;  Part  II.,  1814  ;  and  Part  III., 
1820—21. 

b  The  last  story  in  Conan  Doyle's  "  Adventures  of  Gerard  "  has  a  similar  background — Napoleon's 
death. 


io7 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR   AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


ROYAL  GEORGIE 
•THE  LION  OF  JANINA 

THE  VINTAGE 
CAPSINA 

*AT  THE  POINT  OF  THE 
SWORD 

*THE  GREEN  BOOK 


THADDEUS   OF  WAR- 
SAW 


THE  FIERY  DAWN 


THE  SHE  WOLVES  OF 
MACHECOUL 


THE  FIREBRAND 


KEDAR'S  TENTS 


FOR  THE  RIGHT 


UNDER  THE  MENDIPS 


S.  Baring-Gould 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

M.  Jokai  (trans. ) 

(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and  Har- 
per, U.S.A.) 

E.  F.  Benson 
(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  Har- 
per &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

M.  Jokai  (trans. ) 

(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and  Har- 
per &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Jane  Porter 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  McClurg  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

M.  E.  Coleridge 
(E.   Arnold ;   and   Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Dumas  (trans.) 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 
(Macmillan   &   Co.  ;  and 
McClure&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

H.  S.  Merriman 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Karl  Emil  Franzos  (trans.) 
(James  Clarke  &  Co.  ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.  A.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Dut- 
ton&Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Time  of  George  IV.  (Dartmoor). 


Ali  Pasha  of  Janina,  from  1819 
to  his  death. 


Greek  War  of  Independence, 
1821. 


War  for  liberation  of  Peru  (Bo- 
livar). 

Russia,  1825  (Alexander  I.). 


Poland,  about  1830. 


Duchesse  de  Berri  (1831—32). 


Ditto. 


Spain — Queen  Cristina  and  the 
Carlists. 


The  Carlists. 


Carpathian  district,  1835. 


Time  of  William  IV.  (Bristol 
Riots). 


io8 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

•TREWERN 

R.  M.  Thomas 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

Time  of  William  IV.  (Wales). 

VIVE  L'EMPEREUR 

Mary  R.  S.  Andrews 
(C.  Scribner's  Sons) 

Ireland,  1832  (Legendary  daugh- 
ter of  Napoleon). 

SWALLOW 

H.  Rider  Haggard 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.  ) 

South  Africa—  The  Great  Trek, 
1836. 

THE  WAR  OF  THE  AXE 

J.  Percy-Groves 

(Blackie  £  Son) 

South  Africa  in  the  Forties. 

SWORD  AND  ASSEGAI 

Anna  Howarth 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.) 

South  Africa  —  Kaffir  risings  of 
1846  and  1851. 

*JOHN  CHARITY 

H.  A.  Vachell 
(John  Murray  ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

First  years  of  Queen  Victoria's 
reign  (Hants  and  California). 

•THE    ROMANCE    OF 
GILBERT  HOLMES 

M.  M.  Kirkman 
(Simpkin  &  Co  ;  and  World 
Railway  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.  A.). 

Far  West  in  the  Thirties  (Lin- 
coln and  Jefferson  Davis). 

WITH  CROCKETT  AND 
BOWIE 

Kirk  Munroe 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Texas    (Rebellion   against   the 
Mexicans). 

To  HERAT  AND  CABUL 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

First  Afghan  War. 

THROUGH  SWAMP  AND 
GLADE 

Kirk  Munroe 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Florida  —  Second  War  with  the 
Seminoles. 

IN    THE   WAR    WITH 
MEXICO 

Cyrus  T.  Brady 
(C.  Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.  A.) 

The  Mexican  War,  1846—7. 

MONONIA 

Justin  McCarthy 
(Chatto  &  Windus:   and 
Small,  Maynard,  <Sc  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Ireland,  1848. 

ISHMAEL 

Miss  Braddon 
(J.  &  R.   Maxwell;    and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

France  (Louis  Philippe  —  Napo- 
leon III.). 

iog 
NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


"JOURNEYMAN  LOVE 


*A  ROMANCE  OF  THE 
TUILERIES 

*MADEMOISELLE  MORI 


«*DR.  ANTONIO 

"VlTTORIA 

*FOR  FREEDOM 
OUT  WITH  GARIBALDI 

THE  BARON'S  SONS 
'  MANASSEH 

MITO  YASHIKI 
•RAVENSHOE 


Mrs.  Stepney  Rawson 
(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 

F.  Gribble 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 

Miss  Roberts 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ; 
and  Munro,  U.S.A.) 

G.  D.  Ruffini 

(Thos.  Constable  &  Co., 
Edinburgh,  1855  ;  and 
Dillingham,  U.S.A.) 

George  Meredith 
(Constable  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Tighe  Hopkins 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

M.  Jokai  (trans.) 

(J.  Macqueen  ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

M.  Jokai  (trans.) 

(J.  Macqueen ;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

A.  C.  Maclay 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

Henry  Kingsley 

(Ward,  Lock,  and  Co.; 
and  Longmans  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


France  (Period  of  the  '48  Revo- 
lution). 

Ditto        ditto. 


Italian  Revolution,  1848. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 

War  of  Italian  Liberation,  1859. 
Ditto        ditto. 

Hungarian  Revolution,  1848. 


Italy   and    Transylvania,    1848 
—59- 


Japan  in  the  Fifties. 


Period  of  Crimean  War  (mostly 
England). 


a  A  remarkable  example  of  a  foreigner's  mastery  of  our  language.  Rufiini,  the  illustrious  Italian 
patriot,  wrote  this  novel  after  a  sojourn  of  some  years  in  England.  A  neat  edition  was  published  by 
David  Stott  in  1891. 


no 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a'SEVASTOPOL 


THE  INTERPRETER 


A  GALLANT   GRENA- 
DIER 


SEETA 


THE  DILEMMA 


FLOTSAM 


FOR  THE  OLD  FLAG 


•EIGHT  DAYS 


JENETHA'S  VENTURE 


*THE    PERIL    OF   THE 
SWORD 


Tolstoy  (trans.) 

(Grant  Richards ;  and  Cro- 
well  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  J.  Whyte  Melville 
(W.Thacker&Co.;  Ward, 
Lock,  &  Co. ;  and  Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Captain  Brereton 

(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.  A.) 

Meadows  Taylor 

(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co. ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.  A.) 

Sir  George  Chesney 
(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 
and    Harper    £    Bros., 
U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Steel 
(W.  Heinemann ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Seton  Merriman 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Clive  Robert  Fenn 
(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

R.  E.  Forrest 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co. ;  and 
U.  S.  Book  Co.,  Lo- 
vell's  series) 

Colonel  Harcourt 
(Cassell  &  Co.) 

Colonel  Harcourt 
(Skeffington  &  Son) 


Period  of  Crimean  War. 


Ditto  (Crimea,  Hungary,  &c,). 


Ditto   (Sebastopol    and    Bala- 
clava). 


Indian  Mutiny. 
Ditto. 

Ditto    (Siege  of  Delhi). 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto   (Nicholson). 

Ditto    (Siege  of  Delhi). 


Ditto    (Siege    and    Relief    of 
Lucknow) 


a  This  powerful  sketch  can  hardly  be  described  as  "  romance,"  but  I  felt  that  my  Crimean  section 
would  be  incomplete  without  it. 


Ill 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE  DISPUTED  V.C. 
WEB  OF  THE  SPIDER 
WAR  TO  THE  KNIFE 
*TIME  AND  CHANCE 

*THE  BATTLE  GROUND 


*THE  LITTLE  SHEP- 
HERD OF  KINGDOM 
COME 

ALADDIN  O'BRIEN 


THE  SOUTHERNERS 
aCuojo's  CAVE 

*THE  CRISIS 


*THE    WASHINGTO- 
NIANS 


"THE  RED  BADGE  OF 
COURAGE 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Frederick  P.  Gibbon 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

H.  B.  Marriott  Watson 
(Hutchinson  &  Co.) 

Rolf  Boldrewood 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Elbert  Hubbard 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

Ellen  Glasgow 
(Constable  &    Co.  ;    and 
Doubleday       &       Co., 
U.S.A.) 

John  Fox 

(Constable  &  Co. ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Gouverneur  Morris 

(Cassell  &  Co.  ;  and  The 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Cyrus  T.  Brady 
(C.  Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

T.  T.  Trowbridge 
(Lee  &  Shepard,  U.S.A.) 

Winston  Churchill 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Pauline    B.     Mackie    (Mrs. 

Hopkins) 

(George    Bell     &     Sons; 
and  Page,  U.S.A.) 

Stephen  Crane 

(W.  Heinemann;  andAp- 
pleton&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Indian  Mutiny  (Delhi  and  Luck- 
now). 

New  Zealand  War 


Ditto. 


America,   early  to  mid   Nine- 
teenth Century  (John  Brown). 

Virginia,    before    and    during 
Civil  War. 


Kentucky.     Ditto. 


Before  (New  England)  and 
during  (the  South)  the  Ameri- 
can Civil  War. 

Mobile  in  Civil  War  time. 


Tennessee  in  the  Early  Sixties 
(War  Time). 

American  Civil  War  period  (Lin- 
coln, Sherman,  Grant, 
&c.) 

Ditto  (The  Candidature  for  the 
Presidency — Lincoln  and 
his  opponents). 


Ditto   (Battle    of   Chancellors- 
ville). 


a  One  of  several  Juvenile  books  by  the  same  author,  dealing  with  the  Civil  War  period. 


112 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


WITH  LEE  IN  VIRGINIA 


THE  IRON  BRIGADE 


*THE  CAPTAIN 


THE  DESERTER,  and 
A  DAY  IN  THE  WIL- 
DERNESS (In  "The 
Deserter  and  other 
Stories  ") 

THE  COPPERHEAD  AND 
OTHER  TALES 


BAYARD'S  COURIER 


*WHO  GOES  THERE? 


*FRIEND    WITH    THE 
COUNTERSIGN 

THE  CAVALIER 


THE  VAGABOND 

•HENRY  BOURLAND 

THE  CLAYBORNES 

*BEFORE  THE  DAWN 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son;   and  C. 
Scribner's Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  King 

(G.  W.   Dillingham  Co.. 
U.S.  A.) 

Churchill  Williams 
(Lothrop  Publishing  Co.) 

Harold  Frederic 
(Lothrop  Publishing  Co.) 


Harold  Frederic 

(W.  Heinemann ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

B.  K.  Benson 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

B.  K.  Benson 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

B.  K.  Benson 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

George  W.  Cable 

(John  Murray  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Palmer 

(Harper  &  Bros.;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Albert  Elmer  Hancock 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

William  Sage 
(Houghton,  Mifflin,&Co.) 

J.  A.  Altsheler 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
Doubleday,  Page,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 


American  Civil  War  period. 


Ditto   (Army  of  the  Potomac — 
Lincoln,  Grant,  &c.). 


Ditto  (Grant). 

Ditto  (Adirondacks). 

Ditto  (Stories  of  the  North). 

Ditto  (Early  Campaigns). 

Ditto  (Bull  Run  to  Gettysberg). 

Ditto  (after  Gettysberg), 

Ditto  (Mississippi). 

Ditto  (Virginia). 


Ditto   (Virginia  during  and  after 
War). 

Ditto   (Grant — Vicksburg    and 
Richmond). 

Ditto   (Fall  of  Richmond ;  Jef- 
ferson Davis,  &c.). 


"3 
NINETEENTH    CENTURY-  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


«*RED  ROCK 


AN  EMPEROR'S  DOOM 


*LAY    Dowx    YOUR 
ARMS 


*FOR    SCEPTRE    AND 
CROWN 

MAID,    WIFE,    OR 
WIDOW? 


*JOHN  OF  GERISAU 

THE    MEMBER    FOR 
PARIS 

*THE  DAYSPRING 
*LE  JARDIN  DU  Roi 
THE  ISLE  OF  UNREST 

•LORRAINE 


STORY  OF  THE  PLE- 
BISCITE (THE  PLE- 
UISCITE) 


T.  Nelson  Page 

(W.  Heinemann ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Baroness  von  Suttner  (trans.) 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co. ; 
and    McClurg    &   Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

G.  Samarow  (trans.) 

(H.  S.  King  &  Co.,  1875) 

Mrs.  Alexander 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;  and 
J.  S.  Ogilvie  Publishing 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Oxenham 

(Hursc  &  Blackett) 

E.  C.  Grenville  Murray 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.,  1871) 

Dr.  Wm.  Barry 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

Paul  et  Victor  Margueritte 
(Plon  et  Cie,  Paris) 

H.  Seton  Merriman 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Robert  W.  Chambers 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons; 
and  Harper  &  Bros., 
U.S.A.) 

Erckmann-Chatrian  (trans.) 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
C.Scribner'sSons,U.S.A.) 


American  Civil  War  period  (Re- 
construction period  in  Southern 
States). 

Mexican  War  of  Independence. 
Foreign  Wars,  1864—70. 

Prussia  v.  Austria,  1866. 
Ditto. 


Ditto  (and  Franco-German  War, 
1870). 

France — Napoleon  III. 


France — Late  Napoleon  III.  to 
the  Paris  Commune. 

Society  at  Versailles  under  last 
Empire. 

Corsica  in  time  of  Franco-Ger- 
man War. 


Franco-German  War. 


Ditto   (Standpoint  of  the  ceded 
Provinces). 


a  In  connection  with  this  period,  Mr.  Page  has  also  written  a  short  story — "  The  Burial  of  the 
Guns"  (Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.),  and  two  popular  Juvenile  books-  "  Among  the  Camps,"  and  "  Two  Little 
Confederates ''  (both  published  by  Scribner). 

1 


NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  CRIMSON  WING 


VALENTIN 


CASTLE  OF  THE  WHITE 
FLAG 

THE    GARDEN    OF 
SWORDS 


ASHES  OF  EMPIRE 


THE  MAIDS  OF  PARA- 
DISE 


*THE  DOWNFALL 


EPOQUB 


UNDERTHE  IRON  FLAIL 
(FLOWERS  OF  THE 
DUST) 

THE  PARISIANS 


*THE  RED  REPUBLIC 


H.  C.  Chatfield  Taylor 
(Grant     Richards ;      and 
Stone  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Henry  Kingsley 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Max  Pemberton 
(Cassell  &  Co. ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Robert  W.  Chambers 

(Macmillan  &  Co. ;  and 
F.  A.  Stokes  Co.,  U.S. A). 

Robert  W.  Chambers 
(Constable    &   Co.  ;    and 
Harper  &  Bros..  U.S.A.) 

E.  Zola  (trans.) 

(Chatto  &  Windus;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Paul  et  Victor  Margueritte 
(Plon-Nourrit  et  Cie,  Paris) 

J.  Oxenham 

(Cassell  &  Co. ;  and  Wes- 
sels,  U.S.A.) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Robert  W.  Chambers 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


Franco-German    War    (Crown 
Prince  of  Germany,  &c. ) 


Ditto  (Sedan). 

Ditto  (Alsace— Battle  of  Worth). 
Ditto  (Worth  and  Strasburg). 


Ditto    (Paris — Escape    of    the 
Empress). 


Ditto  (Alsace  and  Brittany). 


Ditto  (Sedan  and  Paris). 


Ditto. 


Ditto  (Metz,    Siege    of   Paris, 
&c.). 


Paris  Commune. 


Ditto. 


a  Collective  title  of  the  four  novels — "  Le  Desastre  "  (Metz,  1870),  "  Les  Troncons  du  Glaive  "  (La 
Defense  nationale,  1870 — 71),  "  Les  Braves  Gens"  (Episodes,  1870 — 71),  and  "  La  Commune  "(Paris, 
1871).  Messrs.  Chatto  &  Windus  and  Messrs.  Appleton  &  Co.,  U.S.A.,  have  published  an  English  trans- 
lation of  "  Le  Desastre,"  and  of  "  La  Commune." 


"5 
NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

A  WINDOW  IN  PARIS 
•THE  VELVET  GLOVE 

Marianne  Farningham 
(James  Clarke  &  Co.) 

H.  S.  Merriman 
(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Dodd,    Mead,    &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Paris  Commune. 
Spain,  1870—  The  Carlists. 

NOTE. — I  have  seen  it  urged  that  occurrences  of  a  year  or  two  ago  should  be  reckoned 
as  "  History."  Surely  we  see  events  more  truly,  in  one  sense,  after  the  lapse  of  years, 
even  though  exact  details  tend  to  fade  away  ?  Many  of  us,  while  we  regard  the  Franco 
German  War  as  History  proper,  feel  that  the  men  and  deeds  of  the  Eighties  and  Nineties 
?.re,  as  it  were,  a  part  of  our  own  environment ;  the  stage  of  impartial  judgment  (or,  at 
least,  approximation  to  such)  has  not  been  reached.  Accordingly  I  am  content  to  end, 
as  before,  with  the  early  Seventies. 


I — 2 


SUPPLEMENTARY    LIST    OF 
NOTABLE    NOVELS. 

(SEMI- HISTORICAL.) 


"  Any  narrative  which  presents  faithfully  a  day  and  a  genera- 
tion is,  of  necessity,  historical." 

Owen  IVister,  in  "  The  Virginian" 


a  SUPPLEMENTARY   LIST   OF  NOTABLE   NOVELS 

Which,  while  not  strictly  ll  Historical"  in  some  way  represent  bygone  periods. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*UTHER  AND  IGRAINE 

A  MAN'S  FEAR 
*THE  FOREST  LOVERS 


THE  CASTLE  OF  TWI- 
LIGHT 


COUNTESS    TEKLA 

(TEKLA) 

THE  STRONG  ARM 

LITTLE    NOVELS    OF 
ITALY 

A  LORD  OF  THE  SOIL 
DESIDERIO 


THE  CLOISTERING  OF 
URSULA 


*THE  GOD  SEEKER 


Warwick  Deeping 

(Grant  Richards  ;  and  the 
Outlook  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Hamilton  Drummond 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.) 

Maurice  Hewlett 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Margaret  H.  Potter 
(A.   C.   McClurg  &   Co., 
U.S.A.) 

\  Robert  Barr 

\   (Methuen&Co.;andF.A. 

j       Stokes  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Maurice  Hewlett 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Hamilton  Drummond 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Cc.) 

Edmund  G.  Gardner 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.) 

Clinton  Scollard 

(Cassell  £  Co.;  and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

P.  Rosegger  (trans.) 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


Britain  in  time  of  early  Saxon 
Conquests  (circa  490  A.D.) — 
Winchester,  Wales,  and  Tin- 
tagel. 

The  Vikings. 


Mediaeval  Life  (England). 


Women  under  Feudalism  (Brit- 
tany, 1380). 


Germany,  mid  to  late  Thirteenth 
Century. 


ItalianManners.early  Fourteenth 
to  late  Fifteenth  Century. 

French  Life  in  early  Fifteenth 
Century. 

The  Italian  Renaissance. 


Italian  Adventure  (Renaissance 
period). 


The  Styrian  Alps,  1493. 


a  Nothing  like  exhaustiveness  is  claimed  for  this  "  Supplementary  List";  the  method  of  study 
therein  indicated  might  be  indefinitely  extended,  but  the  works  given  form  an  almost  necessary  starting- 
point.  A  less  restricted  list  would,  of  course,  include  the  Semi-Historic  examples  of  such  foreign  authors 
as  Madame  de  Stael,  Balzac,  Spielhagen,  Ac.  The  purport  of  this  book  being  primarily  in  the  direction 
of  Historical  Romance  proper,  I  have  confined  my  attention  here  to  a  comparatively  few  works  on  the 
borderland  of  my  Introductory  definition; 


120 


SUPPLEMENTARY    LIST -continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*TARAS  BULBA 


•CAPTAIN  FRACASSE 


HERALDS  OF  EMPIRE 


THE  HEART'S  HIGH- 
WAY 


THE  SCARLET  LETTER 


*YOUNG    GOODMAN 
BROWN  (in  "Mosses 
from  an  Old  Manse") 


*THE  BRIDE  OF  LAM- 
MERMOOR 


A  LADY  OF  QUALITY 

His    GRACE    OF   OS- 
MONDE 

*THE  PIRATE 


THE  BLACK  DWARF 


CAPTAIN  SINGLETON 


Nicolai  V.  Gogol 
(T.   Y.    Crowell   &    Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Theophile  Gautier  (trans.) 
(Duckworth    &    Co.;    J. 
Macqueen  ;    and  L.  C. 
Page  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Agnes  C.  Laut 
(D.  Appleton  &  Co.) 


Mary  E.  Wilkins 
(John  Murray ;  and  Double 
day  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
(Walter  Scott ;  Houghton, 
Mifflin,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
(W.    Scott ;     Houghton, 
Mifflin,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

I  F.  Hodgson  Burnett 

[     (Warne  &  Co.;   and  C. 

|         Scribner'sSons,U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Defoe 
(J.  M.  Dent£   Co.;  and 

Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 


The  Zaporogian  Cossacks  (Six- 
teenth Century). 


Strolling    Players    in    time   of 
Louis  XIII.  (France). 


Adventure  in  Canadian  Wilder- 
ness, mid  Seventeenth  Cen- 
tury. 

Virginia,  end  of  Seventeenth 
Century. 


Massachusetts,   end  of  Seven- 
teenth Century. 


Ditto. 


East   Lothian,   end   of  Seven- 
teenth Century. 


English    Social    Life,   end    of 
Seventeenth  Century. 


Shetland  and   Orkney  Islands, 
1700. 


Lowlands    of    Scotland,    1706 
(Jacobites). 


Adventure  in  time  of  George  I. 


121 


SUPPLEMENTARY    "LIST— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*  AUDREY 


"ROGER    MALVIN'S 
BURIAL  (in  "  Mosses 
from  an  Old  Manse  ") 


•TREASURE  ISLAND 


TOM  JONES 


•CLARISSA  HARLOWE 


HUMPHREY  CLINKER 


*THE  VICAR  OF  WAKE- 
FIELD 

THE  FORGE  IN  THE 
FOREST 


A  SISTER  TO  EVAN- 
CELINE 


*ANNALS    OF    THE 
PARISH 


*JOHN    MAXWELL'S 
MARRIAGE 

•CASTLE  RACKRENT 


Mary  Johnston 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin.  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
(W.    Scott ;     Houghton, 
Mifflin,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

R.  L.  Stevenson 

(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner'sSons,U.S.A.) 

Fielding 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Richardson 

(Chapman  &  Hall;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Smollett 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Goldsmith 

(Macmillan  £  Co.) 

C.  D.  G.  Roberts 
(Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co. ;  and 
Silver  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

C.  D.  G.  Roberts 

(John  Lane  ;  and  Silver  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

John  Gait 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 
and  Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Stephen  Gwynn 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Maria  Edgeworth 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Virginia    in    George    I.  —  II. 
period. 


New  England,  1725. 


Adventure,     mid     Eighteenth 
Century. 


English  Life  and  Manners,  mid 
Eighteenth  Century. 


Ditto        ditto. 


Satire  on  the  Methodists,  &c., 
mid  Eighteenth  Century. 


English   Rural  Life  in   Eight- 
eenth Century. 

Nova  Scotia  in  mid  Eighteenth 
Century. 


Ditto. 


Scotch    Village    Life,    1760— 
1 8 10. 


Donegal,     1761 — 79.       (Social 
Life). 

Irish  Character,  late  Eighteenth 
Century. 


122 


SUPPLEMENTARY   LIST—  continued. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•EVELINA 


THE  MAID  OF  SKER 


THE  SURGEON'S 
DAUGHTER 

•LEGENDS  OF  THE  PRO- 
VINCE HOUSE 


*ARTHUR  MERVYN 
*THE  CHOIR  INVISIBLE 
*THE  ANTIQUARY 

THE  BEAU'S  COMEDY 


•THE  MINISTER'S  WOO- 
ING 


•SWALLOW  BARN 


Frances  Burney 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co. ;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  J.  Whyte  Melville 
(W.Thacker&Co.;  Ward, 
Lock,  &  Co. ;  and  Long- 
mans &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

R.  D.  Blackraore 
(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons  ; 
and    Harper  &   Bros., 
U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A. &C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
(W.    Scott  j     Houghton, 
Mifflin,  &Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

Charles  Brocden  Brown 
(McKay,  Philadelphia) 

James  Lane  Allen 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

B.  M.  Dix  and  C.  A.  Harper 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 


Mrs.  Beecher  Stowe 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

J.  P.  Kennedy 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


Fashionable    Manners,    end   of 
Eighteenth  Century. 

Manners    in    early    years     of 
George  III. 

Exmoor  district,  ditto. 


Devonshire  Life,  late  Eighteenth 
Century. 


Fifeshire.    Isle  of  Wight,  and 
India,  1780. 

Boston   (America),  late   Eight- 
eenth Century. 


Philadelphia,      1793      (Yellow 
Fever  year). 

Kentucky,  1795. 


Scotch  Manners  last  decade  of 
Eighteenth  Century. 

Deals  mainly  with  the  experi- 
ences of  a  young  English 
"beau"  in  a  small  village 
on  the  Connecticut  River 
(America). 

American  Manners,  late  Eight- 
eenth to  early  Nineteenth 
Century. 

Virginian  Life,  beginning  of 
Nineteenth  Century. 


123 
SUPPLEMENTARY    LIST— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


•MARGARET 

•PRIDE  AND  PREJUDICE 

*ADAM  BEDE 


JOHN  HALIFAX,  GEN- 
TLEMAN 


DESTINY 


TRAITS  AND  STORIES 
OF  THE  IRISH  PEA- 
SANTRY 

O'DONNEL 


•LAVENGRO 
ROUND  ANVIL  ROCK 

•THE  GRANDISSIMES 


THE  SHADOW  OF  VIC- 
TORY 

•ASTORIA 

•ADVENTURES  OF  CAP- 
TAIN BONNEVILLE 

•SHIRLEY 


Sylvester  Judd 

(Roberts  Bros.,  Boston) 

Jane  Austen 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

George  Eliot 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons ; 
and  Crowell  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Dinah  Mulock  (Mrs.  Craik) 
(Hurst  &  Blackett;  Lip- 
pincott ;  and  others) 

Susan  E.  Ferrier 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

William  Carleton 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co  ;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Lady  Morgan 
(Downey  &  Co.) 

George  Borrow 

(John  Lane ;  and  others) 

Nancy  H.  Banks 
(Macmillan  &  Co. ) 


C.  W.  Cable 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton ;  and 
C.  Scribner'sSons,  U.S.A.) 

Myrtle  Reed 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


Washington  Irving 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


Charlotte  Bronte 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 


New  England  Life  and  Charac- 
ter 100  years  ago. 

Everyday  Society,  beginning  of 
Nineteenth  Century. 

English  Rural  Life,  beginning 
of  Nineteenth  Century. 


Tewkesbury,  beginning  of  Nine- 
teenth Century. 


Scotch  Character,  beginning  of 
Nineteenth  Century. 


Irish  Peasant  Life,  beginning  of 
Nineteenth  Century. 


Irish  Character,  beginning  of 
Nineteenth  Century. 

Semi-romance  of  Gipsy  life,  &c  , 
in  early  Nineteenth  Century. 

Kentucky  in  the  time  of  Peter 
Cartwright,  the  Methodist 
Preacher. 

New  Orleans,  early  Nineteenth 
Century  (Creole  life). 


American  War  of  1812  period 
(Massacre  of  Fort  Dearborn). 

Adventure   in   Western    North 
America  (U.S.),  1800—25. 

"  Luddite  "  times  (Yorkshire). 


124 
SUPPLEMENTARY    L.IST— continued. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


FOREST  FOLK 


ST.  RONAN'S  WELL 


LORDS  OF  THE  NORTH 


MERVYN  CLITHEROE 


*THE  REVOLUTION  IN 
TANNER'S  LANE 


BLACK  PROPHET 


THE  WHITEBOY 


A  HUNGARIAN  NABOB 


MISTRESS    BARBARA 
CUNLIFFE  (MISTRESS 
BARBARA) 

*MlDDLEMARCH 


FELIX  HOLT 


James  Prior 

(W.  Heinemann ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Agnes  C.  Laut 

(W.  Heinemann;  and  J.  F. 
Taylor,  U.S.A.) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
Gibbings  &  Co.;  and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

Mark  Rutherford 
(Fisher  Unwin ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

W.  Carleton 

(Lawrence  &  Bullen  ;  and 
Sadlier,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hall 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
and    Harper   &    Bros., 
U.S.  A.) 

M.  Jokai  (trans.) 

(jarrold  &  Sons ;  and 
Doubleday&  Co.,U.S.A.) 

Halliwell  Sutcliffe 

(Fisher  Unwin  ;  and  Cro- 
well  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

George  Eliot 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 
and  Crowell  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

George  Eliot 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 
and  Crowell  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


j  "Luddite"  times  (Nottingham). 


Near  Firth  of  Forth,  1812. 


Canada,  early  Nineteenth  Cen- 
tury (Hudson  Bay  Co.  versus 
North-West  Co.). 

Manchester,  about  1820. 


Nonconformity  in  London,  early 
Nineteenth  Century. 


Ireland  in  1822. 


Ditto. 


Hungary,  1822. 


Yorkshire    Wool    Combers    in 
1830. 


England  in  the  Reform  Period 
(William  IV.). 


Ditto        ditto. 


125 
SUPPLEMENTARY    "LIST— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*PENDENNIS 
*THE  NEWCOMES 
*CRANFORD 

PERLYCROSS 


FOR    THE    TERM    OF 
His  NATURAL  LIFE 


WHEN    VALMOND 
CAME  TO  PONTIAC 


ALTON  LOCKE 
SYBIL 


THE  HOOSIER  SCHOOL- 
MASTER 


*THE    BLITHEDALE 
ROMANCE 


CASTLE  RICHMOND 
CASTLE  DALY 
*DEBIT  AND  CREDIT 

THE  SHEEPSTEALEUS 


\  Thackeray 

V     (Smith ,  Elder,  &  Co. ;  and 

)         Estes  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Gaskell 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


R.  D.  Blackmore 
(Sampson  Low  &  Co.;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Marcus  Clarke 

(Macmillan  &   Co.;    and 
Munro,  U.S.A.) 

Gilbert  Parker 

(Methuen    &    Co.  ;    and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Kingsley 
(Macmillau  &  Co.) 

Disraeli 
(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Edward  Eggleston 

(Orange  Judd   Co.,  New 
York) 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
(Walter  Scott ;  and  Hough- 
ton,  Mifflin,  &  Co.,U.S.A.) 

Anthony  Trollope 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 

Miss  Keary 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Freytag  (trans.) 

(Ward,  LocK,  &  Co.;  and 
Harper  &  Bros. ,  U.  S.  A. ) 

Violet  Jacob 

(W.  Heinemann;  andG.  P. 
Putnam's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


Late  Georgian — Early  Victorian 
manners. 


English  Provincial  Life  in  the 
second  quarter  of  the  Nine- 
teenth Century. 

Ditto        ditto. 


Tasmanian  Convict  Life  in  the 
second  quarter  of  the  Nine- 
teenth Century. 

Canada  in  the  second  quarter 
of  the  Nineteenth  Century 
(Traditional  son  of  Napoleon)- 

Chartist  period. 


Ditto. 

Indiana  in  the  early  Thirties. 

Margaret  Fuller  and  the  "Brook 
Farm  "  group,  under  fictitious 
names. 

Irish  Famine. 
Ditto. 


Business  development,  &c,,  in 
Silesia,  about  1848. 


Breconshire  during  the  toll-gate 
riots,  mid  Nineteenth  Century.. 


126 

SUPPLEMENTARY    LIST— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


UNCLE  TOM'S  CABIN 


A    KENTUCKY    CAR- 
DINAL 

AFTERMATH 
•OLDFIELD 

•BARCHESTER  TOWERS 


'SUNNINGWELL 


*BEAUCHAMP'S  CAREER 


•MARY  BARTON 


*!T    is    NEVER    Too 
LATE  TO  MEND 


•GEOFFREY  HAMLYN 


•THE    SQUATTER'S 
DREAM 

DENIS  DENT 


Mrs.  H.  Beecher-Stowe 
(Routledge;  Cassell;  Hough- 
ton,  Mifflin,&Co.,U.S.A.; 
and  others) 


1  James  Lane  Allen 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Nancy  H.  Banks 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Anthony  Trollope 

(Chapman  &  Hall ;  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others.) 

F.  Warre  Cornish 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Dutton&  Co.,  U.S. A.) 

George  Meredith 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and 
C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Gaskell 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Charles  Reade 

(Chatto  &  Windus ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Henry  Kingsley 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans  &  Co.,  U.S.  A.) 

Rolf  Boldrewood 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

E.  W.  Hornung 
(Isbister  &  Co.) 


Slavery  in  America,  mid  Nine- 
teenth Century. 


American  Manners,  1850. 


Kentucky  Small-town  Life,  mid 
Nineteenth  Century. 

Life  in  an  English  Cathedral 
City,  middle  of  Nineteenth 
Century. 


"  High  Church  "  and  "  Broad 
Church,"  middle  of  Nine- 
teenth Century. 

English  Politics,  middle  of 
Nineteenth  Century. 


Manchester,   middle  of   Nine- 
teenth Century. 


Convict  Life(New  South  Wales), 
middle  of  Nineteenth  Century. 


Australian  Bush  Life,  middle  of 
Nineteenth  Century. 


Ditto. 


Ballarat  Goldfields  about  1853, 
the  Battle  of  Inkerman,  and 
England. 


127 


SUPPLEMENTARY    LIST— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


BY  CELIA'S  ARBOUR 


KATRINA  :  A  TALE  OF 
THE  KAROO 

•THE    TRAGIC    COME- 
DIANS 


*SAID,  THE  FISHERMAN 


THE    FORTUNES    OF 
OLIVER  HORN 


*£BEN  HOLDEN 


DOROTHY  SOUTH 


THE  MASTER  OF  WAR- 
LOCK 


THE    GIRL    AT    THE 
HALFWAY  HOUSE 


THE  VOICE   OF   THE 
PEOPLE 


W.  Besant  and  J.  Rice 
(Chatto   &  Wiadus;   and 
Dodd,    Mead,    &    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Anna  Howarth 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.) 

George  Meredith 

(Constable  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Marmaduke  Pickthall 
(Methuen   &    Co. ;    and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Hopkinson  Smith 
(George  Newnes  ;  and  C. 

Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Irving  Bacheller 

(Fisher  Unwin ;  and  Lo- 
throp  Publishing  Co. , 
U.S.  A.) 

G.  Gary  Eggleston 
(Lothrop  Publishing  Co., 

U.S.A.) 

G.  Gary  Eggleston 

(Lothrop  Publishing  Co.. 
U.S.A.) 

E.  Hough 

(W.  Heinemann  ;  and  Ap- 
pleton&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ellen  Glasgow 
(W.Heinemanrv;  and  Double- 
day  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Portsmouth,  in  time  of  Crimean 
War,  &c. 


South  Africa — time  of  the  great 
smallpox  epidemic.  1859. 

Ferdinand    Lassalle    (fictitious 
name). 


Muslim  Life  and  Character  (Da- 
mascus in  1860,  &c.). 


New  York  Artistic  Life  before 
and  during  the  Civil  War. 


New  York  Journalism  in  Civil 
War  period  (Horace  Greeley). 


Virginia,  just  before  the  Civil 
War. 


Virginia,  in  early  days  of  the 
Civil  War. 


Reconstruction    Period  in   the 
Western  Plains,  U.S.A. 


Reconstruction   Period  in  Vir- 
ginia. 


FIFTY  REPRESENTATIVE  HISTORICAL 
NOVELS. 

"  I  love  historical  novels  composed  by  a  master  hand." — 

Lord  Goschen. 

"  What  we  object  to  is  the  notion  that  historic  fidelity  is  the 
important  ingredient  of  an  historical  novel.  Enough  there  must 
be  ;  but  there  must  be  much  more  than  a  dramatisation  of  history, 
more  than  the  recapture  of  the  past;  these  are  but  objective 
triumphs.  There  must  be  in  the  historical  novel  what  we  demand 
in  all  novels — truth  to  the  permanent  qualities  of  human  nature, 
and  an  appeal  to  the  reader  as  a  living  man,  who  reads  what  con- 
cerns him.  There  must  be  the  charm  of  charm." — 

The  Academy  (February  i6th,  1901). 


*  FIFTY    REPRESENTATIVE    HISTORICAL 
NOVELS. 

".  .  .  Those  who  are  in  the  habit  of  reading  the  literary 
weeklies  may  have  noticed  how,  in  certain  critical  quarters, 
a  growing  hatred  (I  can  give  no  milder  term)  of  historical 
romance  has  been  evinced.  Doubtless,  after  the  large  num- 
ber of  mere  '  Cloak  and  Steel '  novels  which  the  last  decade 
has  seen  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic,  one  can  hardly 
wonder  at  this  condemnation  of  the  '  Historical  Novel,' 
when  such  effusions  are  taken  to  represent  it.  But,  it  must 
be  asked,  what  right  has  the  critic  to  condemn  an  entire 
class  of  fiction  on  the  basis  of  its  worst  modern  examples  ? 
And  even  if  this  be  not  done,  it  is  hardly  fair  to  prejudge 
the  question  of  romance-writing  possibilities  by  setting 
forth  (as  some  critics  do)  all  the  theoretical  objections  which 
can  be  urged  against  the  blending  of  history  with  the  narra- 
tions of  fancy.  As  to  the  arguments  pro  and  con,  I  have 
attempted  to  deal  with  these  elsewhere,  and  I  will  do  no 
more  here  than  name  a  few  leading  critics  who  have 
expressed  themselves,  more  or  less  openly,  for  or  against 
historical  romance. 

*  Through  the  kindness  of  the  Editor  of  the  Literary  World,  I  am 
enabled  to  give  an  extract  from  a  letter  which  I  recently  (February,  1903) 
sent  to  that  paper.  As  the  list  appearing  therein  seems  to  have  met  with 
some  approval,  I  venture  to  insert  it  here.  Moreover,  it  may  serve  to 
show  the  absurdity  of  random  statements  about  Historical  Romance.  I 
recently  came  across  the  following  sentence  in  a  well-known  American 
magazine  : — "  Anybody  can  write  an  historical  novel" ;  if  this  very  confident 
critic  were  to  glance  down  the  names  here  given,  he  might  be  disposed  to 
modify  his  easy  assurance,  and  to  admit  that  the  term  "  historical  novel" 
stands  for  supreme  achievement  as  well  as  for  pitiable  failure  ! 

K — 2 


132 

Turning,  first,  to  the  '  Ayes,'  Professor  Saintsbury  and 
Mr.  Andrew  Lang  are  indubitably  favourable,  while  Dr. 
Richard  Garnett  and  Mr.  Swinburne  may,  I  think,  be 
claimed  as  decided,  if  less  demonstrative,  adherents.*  The 
'  Noes  '  are  represented  pre-eminently  by  Sir  Leslie  Stephen 
and  Mr.  Edmund  Gosse ;  in  lesser  degree,  by  Professor 
Brander  Matthews  and  a  '  certain  writer '  in  The  Academy. 
Two  other  champions  may  be  summoned  to  this  literary 
tournament,  viz.,  Mr.  W.  D.  Howells  (against)  and  Mr. 
A.  T.  Quiller-Couch  (for).  Mr.  Howells,  whose  recent 
work  on  fiction  '  Heroines '  would  seem  to  show  that  his 
literary  judgments  are  not  infallible,  has  just  been  com- 
menting adversely  on  historical  novels  (except  in  the  case 
of '  a  very,  very  few '),  and  against  his  pronouncements  I 
think  we  may  safely  set  those  of  our  own  able  novelist  and 
critic,  '  Q.'f 

The  above  remarks  have  been  made  with  a  view  to  leading 
up  to  the  main  object  of  my  letter.  While  the  opinions  of 
learned  critics  (such  as  those  just  mentioned)  are  of  very 
great  value,  may  not  the  novelists  themselves  be  brought 
forward  to  speak  on  their  own  behalf  ?  As  likely  to  help 
the  intelligent  adult  reader  to  form  his  own  judgment  on 
this  question  of  historical  romance,  I  have  made  out  (after 
much  careful  thought  and  study)  the  following  List  of  Fifty 
Representative  Historical  Novels.  I  use  the  word  '  represen- 
tative '  rather  than  *  best,'  because  I  am  aware  that  in  any 

*  Since  these  words  were  written,  a  distinguished  critic,  Mr.  Frederic 
Harrison,  has  come  forward  in  the  new  role  of  Historical  Novelist. 

t  Vide  Daily  News,  of  June  2nd  and  June  gth,  1902,  for  interesting 
remarks  "On  Historical  Novels,"  by  Mr.  Quiller-Couch  ;  see  also  the 
incidental  plea  of  another  able  exponent  of  Fiction,  Mr.  H.  B.  Marriott- 
Watson,  in  his  article — "The  Old  Controversy"  (i.e.,  between  Realism  and 
Romance) — in  The  Monthly  Revieiv,  for  October,  1903 


133 

such  list  the  line  cannot  be  drawn  with  exactitude  between 
the  last  ten  (say)  of  the  novels  chosen  and  the  first  ten  of 
those  excluded.  To  show  that  my  line  of  exclusion  had 
to  be  somewhat  arbitrary,  I  have  only  to  mention  such 
examples  as  Perez  Galdos's  '  Episodios  Nacionales,'  Vik- 
tor Rydberg's  '  Last  Athenian,'  Felix  Dahn's  '  Struggle  for 
Rome,'  Weyman's  '  A  Gentleman  of  France,'  Conan  Doyle's 
'The  Refugees,'  Mason's  'Courtship  of  Morrice  Buckler,' 
Edith  Wharton's  recently  published  '  Valley  of  Decision,' 
&c.,  &c.  At  the  same  time,  I  would  suggest  that,  as  con- 
taining historical  novels  of  almost  every  type,  the  list  given 
will  be  found  a  really  satisfactory  one ;  and,  were  it  desired 
to  test  any  thoughtful  man's  partiality  for  this  kind  of 
fiction,  I  venture  to  think  that  one  could  not  do  much 
better  than  give  him  this  list  from  which  to  choose.  If, 
after  fairly  trying  the  quality  of  these  fifty  novels,  or,  at 
least,  some  portion  of  them,  a  reader  remain  unmoved,  one 
may  safely  infer  that  historical  romance  is  not  for  him  ;  to 
hurl  the  dicta  of  eminent  critics  at  such  a  one  would  be 
mere  waste  of  time.  De  gustibus  non  disputandum.  The  man 
to  whom  *  The  Three  Musketeers '  is  foolishness  may 
revel  in  '  Marius  the  Epicurean '  or  '  War  and  Peace,'  but 
he  who  cannot  find  pleasure  in  any  of  the  books  named 
(representing,  as  they  do,  such  a  variety  of  widely-differing 
types)  is  '  past  praying  for  ' !  The  temptation  was  great  to 
insert  George  Meredith's  '  Vittoria,'  if  only  to  have  that 
powerful  writer  represented,  but  the  work  in  question  has 
little  of  the  veritable  '  historical '  romance  about  it ;  on  the 
other  hand,  Merejkowski's  much-discussed  '  Death  of  the 
Gods  ' — lacking  the  creativeness  of  fiction — is  chiefly  re- 
markable for  its  series  of  brilliant  historical  sketches  (I  think 
the  same  remark  might  be  applied  to  Zola's  'La Debacle'). 


134 

Another  omission  that  may  be  noted  is  Beyle's  '  La  Char- 
treuse de  Parme ' ;  this  essentially  psychological  novel,  with 
its  slight  historical  allusiveness,  would,  I  venture  to  suggest, 
be  somewhat  out  of  place  in  the  list  which  follows.  In 
regard  to  early  Christian  illustration,  I  scarcely  anticipate 
serious  blame  for  preferring  '  Philochristus '  (Dr.  Abbott's 
scholarly  and  exquisitely  conceived  semi-romance)  to  '  Quo 
Vadis  ?  '  and  other  «  popular '  tales." 


FIFTY    REPRESENTATIVE    HISTORICAL    NOVELS. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


AN  EGYPTIAN    PRIN- 
CESS 


SALAMMBd 


PHILOCHRISTUS 


THE  LAST    DAYS    OF 
POMPEII 


MARIUS   THE    EPICU- 
REAN 


HAROLD 


THE  TALISMAN 


IVANHOE 


G.  Ebers 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.; 
and  Appleton  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Gustave  .Flaubert 

(Grant  Richards ;  and  G. 
P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

Edwin  A.  Abbott 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.;  and  others) 

W.  Pater 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

J.  H.  Newman 

(Longmans  &  Co.) 

Charles  Kingsley 
( Macmillan  &  Co.) 

J.  V.  Scheffel 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ; 
and  Crowell  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
Little,  Brown  &  Co., 
U.S.A.;  and  others) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Egypt,  Sixth  Century,  B.C. 

Carthage  and  her  Mercenaries. 

A  Disciple  of  Christ 
Time  of  Vespasian. 

Time  of  Marcus  Aurelius. 
North  Africa  Persecutions. 
Alexandria  in  Fifth  Century. 


Germany  (the  Huns)  in  Tenth 
Century. 


Norman  Conquest. 


Richard  I.  (Crusades). 


Richard  I.  (England). 


136 
FIFTY    REPRESENTATIVE    HOVELS— continued. 


TITLB  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


MAID  MARIAN 


THE    LAST    OF    THE 
BARONS 


OUENTIN  DDRWARD 


ROMOLA 


NOTRE  DAME 


THE    CLOISTER    AND 
THE  HEARTH 


NiccoLd    DE'    LAPI 
(THE    MAID    OF 
FLORENCE) 

CHRONIQUEDU  REGNE 
DE  CHARLES  IX. 


THE  ABBOT 


KENILWORTH 


WESTWARD  Ho  I 


THE    FORTUNES    OF 
NIGEL 


Thomas  Love  Peacock 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.  ;  and  others) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

George  Eliot 

(Blackwood  &  Sons ;  and 
Crowell&Co.,U.S.A.) 

Victor  Hugo 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Charles  Reade 
(Chatto  &  Windus ;  and 
Little,  Brown,   &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

M.  D'Azeglio 

(R.  Bentley,  1853) 


Richard  I.  (Robin  Hood). 
Wars  of  the  Roses. 

France,  Louis  XI. 
Florence,  Savonarola. 
Paris,  late  Fifteenth  Century. 


Eve  of  the  Reformation  (Parents 
of  Erasmus). 


Florence,  1529— 30. 


Prosper  Merim£e  Massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew. 

(Trans.  —  Nirnmo,    1890; 
and  Cassell,  U.S.A.) 


Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
and  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Kingsley 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


I  Mary,  Queen  of  Scots. 


Elizabeth. 


Elizabeth. 


James  I. 


137 
FIFTY    REPRESENTATIVE   NOVELS— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


JOHN  INGLESANT 


MAIDEN  AND  MAR- 
RIED LIFE  OF  MARY 
POWELL 


THE  THREE  MUSKE- 
TEERS 


CINQ  MARS 


THE    BETROTHED    (I 
PROMESSI  SPOSI) 


TWENTY  YEARS  AFTER 


WITH    FIRE    AND 
SWORD  (ist  of  Tri- 
logy) 


THE  LEGEND  OF  Mox- 
TROSE 


WOODSTOCK 


OLD  MORTALITY 


THE    VICOMTE    DE 
BRAGELONNE 


J.  H.  Shorthouse 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Anne  Manning 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Dumas 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

A.  de  Vigny 

(Routledge,  1877;  and  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Manzoni 

(Geo.  Bell  &  Sons;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Dumas 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 

H.  Sienkiewicz 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Dumas 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;  Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 


England  (Charles  I.),  and  Italy 
(the  Molinists). 

John  Milton. 


Time  of  Richelieu. 


Time  of  Richelieu. 


Plague  in  Milan,  1630. 


Time  of  Mazarin. 


Poland,  mid  Seventeenth  Cen- 
tury. 


Montrose  and  the  Covenant. 


Commonwealth  period. 


Both  well  Bridge,  1679. 


Time  of  Louis  XIV. 


I38 
FIFTY    REPRESENTATIVE    NOVELS-continued. 


TITLE  OF   BOOK. 


LORNA  DOONE 


ESMOND 


ROB  ROY 


DOROTHY  FORSTER 


HEART    OF    MIDLO- 
THIAN 


WAVERLEY 


KIDNAPPED 


REDGAUNTLET 


BARNABY  RUDGE 


A  TALE  OF  Two  CITIES 


WAR  AND  PEACR 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


R.  D.  Blackmore 
(Sampson  Low&  Co.;  and 
G.  P.    Putnam's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Thackeray 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co. ;  and 
Estes  and  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

i  Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

R.  L.  Stevenson 

(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Dickens 

(Chapman  &  Hall ;  and 
Crowell  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Dickens 

(Chapman  &  Hall ;  and 
Crowell  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Tolstoy 

(W.  Scott;  W.  Heine- 
mann ;  C.  Scribner's 
Sons,  U.S.A.  ;  and 
others) 


SUBJECT. 


Monmouth  Rebellion. 

Time  of  William  III.— Anne. 
The  Jacobites,  1715. 
The  Jacobites,  1715. 

The  Porteous  Riots. 
The  Jacobites,  1745. 
Scotland,  1751. 
Jacobites  (George  III.). 
Gordon  Riots  (George  III.). 
French  Revolution. 
Napoleon's  Russian  Campaign. 


139 


FIFTY    REPRESENTATIVE    NOVELS— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  CONSCRIPT 
WATERLOO 

THE  GREEN  BOOK 

(Inexact  in  Date} 
THE  FOREST  LOVERS 

THE  SCARLET  LETTER 


Erckmann-Chatrian 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co. ;  and 
C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Erckmann-Chatrian 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
C.      Scribner's      Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

M.  Jokai 

(Jarrold  &  Sons ;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 


Maurice  Hewlett 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
(W.     Scott  ;     Houghton, 
Mifflin,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 
and  others) 


Late  Napoleonic  period. 


Ditto. 


Russia,  1825. 


Mediaeval  Life. 


Massachusetts    in    the    Seven- 
teenth Century. 


I  would  add  one  word.  It  may  be  asked  in  regard  to  the  above  list — Why  Fifty  ? 
To  this  I  reply  that,  having  made  many  trial  lists,  I  found  that  my  final  evolution  resulted 
in  something  almost  identical  with  that  figure ;  a  smaller  selection  would  certainly  exclude 
important  representative  novels,  a  larger  might  possibly  include  examples  unworthy  of 
such  supremely  high  company. 


SUGGESTED  COURSES   OF  READING. 

(JUVENILE). 

"  It  is  no  wisdom  to  make  boys  prodigies  of  information, 
but  it  is  our  wisdom  and  our  duty  to  cultivate  their  faculties  each 
in  its  season,  first  the  memory  and  imagination,  and  then  the 
judgment,  to  furnish  them  with  the  means,  and  to  excite  the  desire 
of  improving  themselves." — Dr.  Arnold,  quoted  in  Sir  Joshua 
Pitch's  "  Thomas  and  Matthew  Arnold" 


SUGGESTED    COURSES    OF    READING. 
(JUVENILE.) 

As  likely  to  assist  Parents  and  Teachers,  I  propose  to  give 
a  list  (covering  English  History  from  the  Norman  Conquest) 
for  Juvenile  Readers ;  but  a  passing  allusion  may,  first  of 
all,  be  made  to  tales  dealing  with  more  ancient  periods. 
For  the  illustration  of  Greek  and  Roman  History,  those 
books  of  Professor  A.  J.  Church  which  are  entered  in  my 
Pre-Christian  section  may  be  safely  recommended;  while 
the  pictures  of  First  Century  life  given  in  Wallace's  "  Ben 
Hur,"  Lytton's  "  Last  Days  of  Pompeii,"  and  Whyte 
Melville's  "The  Gladiators,"  are,  perhaps,  as  likely  to 
interest  an  intelligent  boy  or  girl  in  the  "  teen  "  stage  as 
any  similar  productions  that  could  be  mentioned.  Turning 
to  the  Early  History  of  our  own  isle,  I  would  specially 
mention  Mr.  Henty's  "  Beric  the  Briton";  the  "Jiscen- 
dune"  series  of  tales  ("  Edwy  the  Fair,"  "  Alfgar  the 
Dane,"  and  "The  Rival  Heirs")  by  the  late  Rev.  A.  D. 
Crake ;  Mr.  C.  W.  Whistler's  "  Havelok  the  Dane,"  "  A 
Thane  of  Wessex,"  &c. ;  and  the  various  books  chosen  to 
represent  Alfred  and  his  times. 

In  preparing  the  following  list,  I  have  had  in  view,  for 
the  most  part,  the  average  Juvenile  taste;  doubtless  many 
of  the  more  advanced  works  might  be  offered  in  special 
cases,  but  in  regard  to  that,  the  Parent  or  Teacher  can 
alone  judge.  A  reference  to  the  General  List  will,  in  most 


144 

cases,  reveal  a  more  exact  specification;  for  the  sake  of 
convenience,  the  tales  are  here  grouped  according  to  Reigns 
only. 

Of  the  romances  dealing  with  American  and  Foreign 
History  to  be  found  in  the  foregoing  pages,  many  are  suit- 
able for  young  readers ;  but  the  sequence  not  being  very 
close  (for  any  lengthy  period  at  least),  separate  lists  would 
appear  superfluous.  Such  writers  (to  mention  only  a  few) 
as  Fenimore  Cooper,  Mrs.  J.  G.  Austin,  G.  C.  Eggleston, 
Kirk  Munroe,  and  Elbridge  S.  Brooks,  may  be  particularly 
recommended  for  American  History ;  while  Scott,  Dumas, 
Charlotte  M.  Yonge,  Miss  Roberts  (author  of  "  Made- 
moiselle Mori "),  and  G.  A.  Henty  have  all  illustrated — in 
more  or  less  adequate  fashion — the  course  of  events  in 
Foreign  Countries.  The  novels  of  Dumas  are  not  infre- 
quently considered  somewhat  "strong  meat,"  but  his  "She- 
Wolves  of  Machecoul "  and  "  Black  Tulip  "  may  be  safely 
placed  in  any  hands. 


NOTE. — In  the  original  edition  of  this  work  two  separate  lists  were 
furnished  for  Boys  and  Girls  respectively.  It  has  been  suggested,  in  more 
than  one  quarter,  that  an  amalgamated  list  would  be  better  in  many  ways ; 
not  a  few  girls  have  a  taste  for  those  books  of  adventure  which  are  sup- 
posed to  appeal  primarily  to  their  brothers  and  boy  contemporaries,  and  it 
is  impossible  to  draw  the  line  exactly  in  that  class  of  fiction.  Accordingly, 
I  now  offer  a  single  list,  merely  indicating  by  a  letter  (B  for  Boys,  and  G 
for  Girls)  those  tales  in  which  tendencies  are  somewhat  pronounced. 


ENGLISH   HISTORY  SINCE  THE  CONQUEST  (JUVENILE). 


TITLE   OF   BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


'HAROLD 


WULF  THE  SAXON 


THE  CAMP  OF  REFUGE 


*HEREWARD    THE 
WAKE 

THE  RIVAL  HEIRS 


THE  SIEGE  OF  NOR- 
WICH CASTLE 


IN  THE  DAYS  OF  ST. 
ANSELM  (<P 


COUNT    ROBERT    OF 
PARIS 


cPABO  THE  PRIEST 


A  LEGEND  OF  READ- 
ING ABBEY 


Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  & 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

C.  Macfarlane 

(Constable  &  Co.  ;  and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Kingsley 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

A.  D.  Crake 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co., 
and  E.  &  J.  B.  Young, 
U.S.A.) 

M.  M.  Blake 
(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

G.  Hollis 

(Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

S.  Baring-Gould 

(Methuen  &  Co.  ;  and  F. 
A.  Stokes  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

C.  Macfarlane 

(Constable  &  Co.  ;  and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 


Norman    Conquest,    Harold- 
William  I. 


Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
William  II. 

Ditto. 
Henry  I. 
Stephen 


a  This,  the  only  substantial  tale  dealing  directly  with  the  reign  of  Henry  I.,  is  hardly  suitable  for 
very  young  folk,  but  it  will  interest  those  with  older  tastes. 


146 
ENGLISH    HISTORY   QUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE 
GOLDEN  CHAIN  (B) 

R.  D.  Chetwode 
(C.  A.  Pearson  ;  and  Ap- 
pleton&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Stephen. 

FOR    KING    OR    EM- 
PRESS ? 

C.  W.  Whistler 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Bitto. 

*THE  BETROTHED 

Scott 
(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Henry  II. 

FOREST  OUTLAWS 

E.  Gilliat 
(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Button 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Bitto. 

•THE  TALISMAN 

Scott 
(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Richard  I. 

*IVANHOE 

Scott 
(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Bitto. 

IN  LINCOLN  GREEN 

E.  Gilliat 
(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Button 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Bitto. 

WOLF'S  HEAD 

E.  Gilliat 
(Seeley  £  Co.  ;  and  Button 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

John. 

RUNNYMEDE    AND 
LINCOLN  FAIR 

J.  G.  Edgar 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co  ;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Bitto. 

SPURS  AND  BRIDE 

Gertrude  Hollis 
(Society    for     Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge) 

Bitto. 

•PHILIP  AUGUSTUS 

G.  P.  R.  James 

Bitto. 

A    STOUT    ENGLISH 
BOWMAN 

THE   ROBBEP   BARON 
OF  BEDFORD  CASTLE 


(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

E.  Pickering 

(Blackie  &  Son) 

A.  J.  Foster  and  E.  C.Cuthell 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Henry  III. 
Bitto. 


H7 


ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)—  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


•FOREST  DAYS 


How    I    WON    MY 
SPURS 


*A  CLERK  OF  OXFORD 


•THE  PRINCE  AND  THE 
PAGE 

•THE  KING'S  REEVE 


THE  LORD  OF  DYNE- 
OVER 

MY  LADY  JOANNA  (G) 


THE  SCOTTISH  CHIEFS 
(G) 


IN  FREEDOM'S  CAUSE 


THE    CHEVALIER   OF 
THE    SPLENDID 
CHEST  (B) 

•THE  DAYS  OF  BRUCE 
(G) 


•THE  WHITE  COMPANY 


•THE  LANCES  OF  LYN- 
WOOD 


G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

J.  G.  Edgar 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co. ;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Henry  III. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


E.  Gilliat  i  Edward  I. 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Dutton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.) 

Jane  Porter 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;   and 
Appleton&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Sir  Herbert  Maxwell 
(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons) 


Grace  Aguilar 

(Warne  &  Co.;  Appleton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.;  and 
others) 

Conan  Doyle 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S. A.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Wallace  and  Bruce,  Edward  I. 
—Edward  IL 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Edward  III. 


Ditto. 


148 

ENGLISH    HISTORY   QUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

GOD,  THE  KING,  MY 
BROTHER 

Mary  F.  Nixon  Roulet 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
L.  C.  Page  &  Co.,  U.S.  A.) 

Edward  III. 

CRBCY  AND  POICTIERS 
(B) 

J.  G.  Edgar 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

ST.  GEORGE  FOR  ENG- 
LAND 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;   and  C. 
Scribner'sSons,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

*ERIC  THE  ARCHER 

Maurice  H.  Hervey 
(Edward  Arnold) 

Ditto. 

IN    THE    DAYS    OF 
CHIVALRY  (G) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

JOHN  STANDISH 

E.  Gilliat 
(Seeley   &    Co.;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Richard  II. 

A  MARCH  ON  LONDON 
(S) 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

•THE  BANNER  OF  ST. 
GEORGE  (G) 

M.  Bramston 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

BOTH   SIDES  OF  THE 
BORDER 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie  &  Son;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Henry  IV. 

CAMBRIA'S  CHIEFTAIN 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

*THE   FAIR  MAID  OF 
PERTH 

Scott 
(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

IN    THE    DAYS    OF 
PRINCE  HAL 

H.  Elrington 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

Henry  V. 

*THE  CAGED  LION  (G) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

*£VERY  INCH  A  KING 

Josephine  C.  Sawyer 
(Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

149 


ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


A  CHAMPION  OF  THE 
FAITH 


AT  AGINCOURT  (B) 


AGINCOURT 


*WHEN    SPURS   WERE 
GOLD 

Two  PENNILESS  PRIN- 
CESSES (G) 

*THE    LAST    OF    THE 
BARONS 


GRISLEY  GRISSELL  (G) 
•THE  BLACK  ARROW 

FOR  THE  RED  ROSE 


THE  CHANTRY  PRIEST 
OF  BARNET 


IN  THE  WARS  OF  THE 
ROSES 

*  How    DICKON    CAME 
BY  His  NAME  (B) 

*WHERE    AVON    INTO 
SEVERN  FLOWS  (B) 

WHITE  WYVILL  AND 
RED  RUTHVEN 


J.  M.  Callwell 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Heuty 

(Blackie  &  Son;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

Russell  Gamier 
(George  Allen) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 


Lytton 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Little,  Brown,  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

R.  L.  Stevenson 

(Cassell  &   Co.;    and   C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

A.  J.  Church 

(Seeley&  Co.;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Harold  Frederic 
(Lothrop  Publishing  Co.) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(E.  Xister) 


Henry  V. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Henry  VI. 


Wars  of  the  Roses,  Henry  VL- 
Edward  IV. 


Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 


ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

RED  ROSE  AND  WHITE 

A.  Armitage 
(J.  Macqueen) 

Richard  III 

THE  WOODMAN 

G.  P.  R.  James 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

*THE   HEIR  OF  HAS- 
COMBE  HALL  (G) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Henry  VII. 

THE  CAPTAIN  OF  THE 
WIGHT 

F.  Cowper 
(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  E.  & 
J.  B.  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

*THE  YELLOW  FRIGATE 
tfj 

James  Grant 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

•WINDSOR  CASTLE  (B) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
Gibbings&  Co.;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Henry  VIII. 

•THE  HOUSEHOLD  OF 
SIR  THOMAS  MORE 

Anne  Manning 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

ROBERT  ASKE 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(S.  W.  Partridge  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

LIKE    A    RA  SEN- 
FIDDLER 

Mary  E.  Shipley 
(Society     for     Promoting 
Christian    Knowledge  ; 
and  Young,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

THE    ARMOURER'S 
'PRENTICES  (G) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

MY  FRIEND  ANNE  (G) 

Jessie  Armstrong 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

•DARNLEY 

G.  P.  R.  James 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

•THE  PRINCE  AND  THE 
PAUPER 

Mark  Twain 
(Chatto   &  Windus  ;    and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Edward  VI. 

ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

MARY  OF  LORRAINE  (B 

James  Grant 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Edward  VI. 

*THE   COLLOQUIES  OF 
EDWARD  OSBORNE 

A.  Manning 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

THE  MAID  OF  LONDON 
BRIDGE  (G) 

S.  Gibney 
(Jarrold  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

A    QUEEN    OF    NINE 
DAYS  (G) 

Edith  C.  Kenyon 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 

Mary. 

*THE  TOWER  OF  LON- 
DON (B) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
Gibbings&Co.;  andLip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

I  CROWN  THEE  KING 

Max  Pemberton 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

SEETHING  DAYS 

Caroline  C.  Holroyd 
(A.  D.  Innes  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

THE  STORY  OF  FRAN- 
CIS CLUDDE 

Stanley  Weyman 
(Cassell&Co.) 

Ditto. 

*THE  ABBOT 

Scott 
(A.  &C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Elizabeth. 

"UNKNOWN    TO    HIS- 
TORY (GO 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

THE  QUEEN'S  MARIES 
(G) 

G.  J.  Whyte  Melville 
(\V.  Thacker&Co.;  Ward, 
Lock,  &  Co.  ;  and  Long- 
mans, U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

*KENILWORTH 

Scott 
(A.  &  C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

FOR  GOD  AND  GOLD  (  B) 

Julian  Corbett 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

152 


ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


*SlR   LUDAR   (B) 

*  WESTWARD  Ho ! 
•MASTER  SKYLARK 

PENSHURST  CASTLE 


THE    GOLDEN    GAL- 
LEON 


RALPH  WYNWARD 


*THE   FORTUNES   OF 
NIGEL 


THE    YOUNG    QUEEN 
OF  HEARTS  (G) 


THE  LOST  TREASURE 
OF  TREVLYN  (G) 

GUY  FAWKES  (B) 


THE  BLACK  TOR  (B) 


OLD  BLACKFRIARS 


THE  DOGS  OF  WAR  (B) 


T.  Baines  Reed 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

Charles  Kingsley 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

J.  Bennett 

(Macmillan   &   Co.;    and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

R.  Leighton 

(Blackie  &  Son;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Elrington 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons ; 
Gibbings    &    Co.;    and 
Lippincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  Manville  Fenn 

(W.  &  R.  Chambers  ;  and 
Lippincott&  Co., U.S.A.) 

Beatrice  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Button 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Pickering 
(Warne  &  Co.) 


Elizabeth. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
James  I. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Charles  I. 
Ditto. 


153 
ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)—  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

ANTHONY  EVERTON 

J.  S.  Fletcher 

Charles  L 

(W.  &  R.  Chambers) 

*UNDER    SALISBURY 

!  Emma  Marshall 

Ditto. 

SPIRE  (G) 

(Seeley&Co.;  and  Button 

&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

WINIFREDE'S   JOUR- 

Emma Marshall 

Ditto. 

NAL  (G) 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 

millan,  U.S.A.) 

A  HAUNT  OF  ANCIENT 

Emma  Marshall 

Ditto 

PEACE  (G) 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 

millan,  U.S.A.) 

*THE    MAIDEN    AND 

Anne  Manning 

Ditto. 

MARRIED  LIFE  OF 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 

MARY  POWELL  (G) 

and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 

U.S.A.) 

AN    OLD    LONDON 

Beatrice  Marshall 

Ditto. 

NOSEGAY 

(Seeley  &  Co.) 

"HOLMBY   HOUSE 

Whyte  Melville 

Ditto. 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 

Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

MIRIAM  CROMWELL 

Dora  McChesney 

Ditto. 

(W.  Blackwood  &  Sons; 

and  Way  &  Williams, 

U.S.A.) 

STANHOPE 

E.  L.  Ilaverfield 

Ditto. 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

•BATTLEMENT    AND 

Owen  Rhoscomyl 

Ditto. 

TOWER  (B) 

(Longmans  &  Co.) 

*THE  SPLENDID  SPUR 

"Q" 

Ditto. 

(Cassell  &  Co.) 

WITH  THE  KING  AT 

A.  J.  Church 

Ditto. 

OXFORD 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  andDodd, 

Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

THE  DRAYTONS   AND 

Mrs.  Charles 

Ditto. 

THE  DAVENANTS 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

154 
ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE   OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


THE  SIEGE  OF  YORK 


*  WHEN    CHARLES    I. 
WAS  KING 


'To  RIGHT  THE  WRONG 


*!N  SPITE  OF  ALL 


'HUGH  GWYETH 


"THE  LEGEND  OF  MON- 
TROSE 


*HENRY  MASTERTON 


THE  CHILDREN  OF  THE 
NEW  FOREST 


DAUNTLESS 


JOHN  MARMADUKE 


IN  THE  KING'S  SER- 
VICE (B) 


*ETHNE  (G) 
•WOODSTOCK 


Beatrice  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 

J.  S.  Fletcher 

(Gay&  Bird;  and McClurg 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Edna  Lyall 

(Hurst  &   Blackett;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S. A.) 

Edna  Lyall 

(Hurst  &  Blackett ;   and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

B.  M.  Dix 

(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

G.  P.  R.  James 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  Warne  &  Co.) 

Marryat 

(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.;   and 
others) 

Ewan  Martin 

(C.  A.  Pearson ;  and  Page, 
U.S.A.) 

S.  H.  Church 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

F.  S.  Urereton 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Field 
(Wells,  Gardner,  &  Co.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


Charles  I. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Commonwealth. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 


155 
ENGLISH    HISTORY   QUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

THE  WHITE    KING'S 
DAUGHTER  (G) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Commonwealth. 

AFTER  WORCESTER 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

WANDERER  AND  KING 

O.  V.  Caine 
(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

•A    LITTLE    CAPTIVE 
LAD 

B.  M.  Dix 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

THE  LION'S  WHELP 

Amelia  E.  Barr 
(Fisher  Unwin  ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

THB  LORD  PROTECTOR 
(B 

S.  Levett  Yeats 
(Cassell  &  Co.  ;  and  Long- 
mans, U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

*CAPTAIN  JACOBUS  (B) 

L.  Cope  Cornford 
(Methuen    &    Co.  ;    and 
Stone,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

ON    BOTH    SIDES   OF 
THE  SEA 

Mrs.  Charles 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

THE    LAST    OF    THE 
CLIFFORDS 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

•OLD  ST.  PAUL'S  (B) 

Harrison  Ainsworth 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
Gibbings  &  Co.  ;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  II. 

*WHITEFRIARS(^) 

Emma  Robinson 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

THE  PURITAN'S  WIFE 

Max  Pemberton 
(Cassell  &  Co.;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

•DEBORAH'S  DIARY  (G) 

Anne  Manning 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

156 
ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


CHERRY  AND  VIOLET 
(C) 


SILAS  VBRNEY  (B) 
TRAITOR  OR  PATRIOT? 

•IN  THE  GOLDEN  DAYS 
*OLD  MORTALITY 
•WINCHESTER  MEADS 


IN  THE  EAST  COUNTRY 
WITH  SIR  THOMAS 
BROWNE 

IN  THE  SERVICE  OF 
RACHEL,  LADY  RUS- 
SELL (G) 

*LORNA  DOONE 


•MICAH  CLARKE 


•FOR  FAITH  AND  FREE- 
DOM 


IN  TAUNTON  TOWN  (G) 


Anne  Manning 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

Edgar  Pickering 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

M.  C.  Rowsell 
(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Edna  Lyall 

(Hurst  &  Blackett;  and 
Appleton  &  Co.,  U.  S.  A. ) 

Scott 

(A.  &C.  Black;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.; 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.  ;  and  But- 
ton &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

R.  D.  Blackmore 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.;  and 
G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons, 
U.S.  A.) 

Conan  Doyle 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.; 
and  Harper  &  Bros., 
U.S.A.) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus  ;  and 
Harper  &  Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Charles  II. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
James  II. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 


ENGLISH    HISTORY  (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

DEB  CLAVEL  (GO 

M.  E.  Palgrave 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 

James  II. 

*THE  LOVER  FUGITIVES 

J.  Finnemore 
(C.  A.  Pearson  ;  and  Lip- 
pincott  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

A  REPUTED  CHANGE- 
LING (G) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

*THE    COURTSHIP    OF 
MORRICE  BUCKLER 

A.  E.  W.  Mason 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

•BLUE  PAVILIONS  (B) 

"Q" 
(Cassell  &   Co.;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A. 

William  III. 

IN  JACOBITE  DAYS 

Mrs.  Henry  Clarke 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

MY    MISTRESS    THE 
QUEEN  (G) 

M.  A.  Paull 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

Ditto. 

KENSINGTON  PALACE 
(G) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley&  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan, U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

HOPE  THE  HERMIT  (  G) 

Edna  Lyall 
(Longmans  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

BY  THE  NORTH  SEA 
(G) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Jarrold  &  Sons  ;  and  Thos. 
Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

THE  SCOTTISH  CAVA- 
LIER (B) 

James  Grant 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

Ditto. 

*A  MAN'S  FOES 

E.  H.  Strain 
(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
New  Amsterdam  Book 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Ditto. 

TRUE  TO  THE  WATCH- 
WORD (B) 

Edgar  Pickering 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

Ditto. 

i58 


ENGLISH    HISTORY   QVVEVILTL)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


*THE    OLD    CHELSEA 
BUN  HOUSE  (G) 


•ACROSS    THE    SALT 
SEAS (B) 

FALLEN  FORTUNES  (G) 


THE    CORNET    OF 
HORSE  (B) 


THE  BRAVEST  OF  THE 
BRAVE  (B) 


TOM    TUFTON'S 
TRAVELS 

TOM  TUFTON'S  TOLL 

UNDER  THE  DOME  OF 
ST.  PAUL'S  (G) 


IN  CLARISSA'S  DAY  (G) 


THE    HERITAGE    OF 
LANGDALE 


*ROB  ROY 


*DOROTHY  FORSTER 


DUANCE  PENDRAY  (G) 


Anne  Manning 
(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons  ; 
and  C.  Scribner's  Sons, 
U.S.A.) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  H. 
S.  Stone,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co. ;  and 
C.Scribner's  Sons.U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Sarah  Tytler 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Mrs.  Alexander 

(Hutchinson  &  Co.;  and 
Holt  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Scott 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

G.  Norway 

(Jarrold  &  Sons) 


Anne. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 

George  I. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 


159 


ENGLISH    HISTORY    (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 


A    LOYAL    LITTLE 
MAID  (G) 

To  ARMS  !  (B) 


•CLEMENTINA 


THE  MASTER  OF  THE 
MUSICIANS  (G) 

*HEART    OF    MIDLO- 
THIAN 


NED  LEGER  (B) 


THYRA  VARRICK  (G) 


FOR  THE  WHITE  ROSE 
OF  ARNO  (B) 

*WAVERLEY 


A    HERO    OF    THE 
HIGHLANDS  (G) 

THE    FORTUNES    OF 
CLAUDE  (B) 

MISTRESS    NAN  CY 
MOLESWORTH 


"THE  MASTER  OF  BAL- 

LANTRAE 


Sarah  Tytler  George  I. 

(Blackie  &  Son) 

A.  Balfour  Ditto. 

(Methuen  &  Co.;  and  L. 
C.  Page&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

A,  E.  W.  Mason  Ditto. 

(Methuen    &     Co.;    and 
Stokes,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall  George  II. 

(Seeley  &  Co.;  and  Mac- 
millan,  U.S.A.) 

Scott  Ditto. 

(A.  &  C.  Black  ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S. A.) 

G.  Manville  Fenn  Ditto. 

(Society     for    Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge) 

I 

Amelia  E.  Barr  !  Ditto. 

(Fisher  Unwin  ;  and  Tay- 
lor, U.S.A.) 

Owen  Rhoscomyl  Ditto. 

(Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.) 

Scott  i  Ditto. 

(A.  &  C.  Black ;  and  Estes 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green  Ditto. 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

E.  Pickering  Ditto. 

(Warne  &  Co.) 

Joseph  Hocking  Ditto. 

(J.  Bowden  ;  and  Double 
day  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

R.  L.  Stevenson  ,  Ditto. 

(Cassell   &   Co.;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 


i6o 


ENGLISH    HISTORY    QUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


•KIDNAPPED 


*CATRIONA 


WITH  CLIVE  IN  INDIA 


*AMYOT  BROUGH  (G) 


*THE  CHAPLAIN  OF  THE 
FLEET 


CAP'N  NAT'S  TREASURE 
(B) 

THE    ROCK    OF   THE 
LION 

•BARNABY  RUDGE 


*Miss  ANGEL  (G) 


*A  TALE  OF  Two 
•     CITIES 


THE  PARSON'S  DAUGH- 
TER (G) 


IN  PRESS  GANG  DAYS 


A  KING'S  WOMAN  (G) 


R.  L.  Stevenson  George  II 

(Cassell   &   Co.;    and   C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

R.  L.  Stevenson  Ditto. 

(Cassell  &   Co.;    and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty  Ditto. 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Vincent  Briton  Ditto. 

(Seeley&Co.) 

W.  Besant  and  J.  Rice  Ditto. 

(Chatto  &  Windus;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

R.  Leighton  George  III. 

(S.  W.  Partridge  &  Co.) 

M.  E.  Seawell  Ditto. 

(Harper  &  Bros.) 

Charles  Dickens  Ditto. 

(Chapman   &   Hall ;    and 
Crowell&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Miss  Thackeray  ,  Ditto. 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Harper&Bros.,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Dickens  Ditto. 

(Chapman  &   Hall ;    and 
Crowell&Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Marshall  Ditto. 

(Seeley  &  Co. ;  and  Dutton 
&  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Pickering  Ditto. 

(Blackie  &  Son;   and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Katharine  Tynan  Ditto. 

(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


ENGLISH    HISTORY   (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND   PUBLISHER. 

PERIOD. 

THE  ROUND  TOWER 

F.  Scott  and  A.  Hodge 

George  III. 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

*KlLGORMAN   (B) 

T.  Baines  Reed 

Ditto. 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

THE  DUKE'S  OWN  (B) 

J.  Percy-  Groves 

Ditto. 

(Griffith   &   Farran;    and 

Button,  U.S.A.) 

AT  THE  POINT  OF  THE 

G.  A.  Henty 

Ditto. 

BAYONET 

(Blackie  &  Son;    and  C. 

Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

UNDER    CHEDDAR 

Edith  Seeley 

Ditto. 

CLIFFS  (G) 

(Seeley  &  Co.) 

WHEN    GEORGE    III. 

A.  Sagon 

Ditto. 

WAS  KING 

(Sands  &  Co.) 

AFLOAT  WITH  NELSON 

Charles  H.  Eden 

Ditto. 

(J.  Macqueen) 

TOM    BURKE    OF 

Charles  Lever 

Ditto. 

"OURS"  (B) 

(Downey  &   Co.;    Little, 

Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 

and  others) 

'CHARLES  O'MALLEY 

Charles  Lever 

Ditto. 

w 

(Downey  &   Co.;    Little, 

Brown,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.; 

and  others) 

*THE    ROMANCE   OF 

James  Grant 

Ditto. 

WAR  (B) 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

WITH    MOORE  AT 

\ 

CORUNNA 

G.  A.  Henty 

Ditto. 

y     (Blackie  &  Son;  and  C. 

UNDER  WELLINGTON'S 

Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

COMMAND 

J 

THE   STORY   OF   A 

J.  Finnemore 

Ditto. 

SCOUT 

(C.  A.  Pearson) 

THE  BIVOUAC  (B) 

W.  H.  Maxwell 

Ditto. 

(Geo.  Routledge  &  Sons) 

AN   OCEAN    FREE 

Clark  Russell 

Ditto. 

LANCE  (B) 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

M 


1 62 


ENGLISH    HISTORY  (JUVENILE)— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR   AND   PUBLISHER. 


PERIOD. 


GRANXLEY  FKNTON 


FACE  TO  FACE  WITH 
NAPOLEON 

IN   THE   YEAR    OF 
WATERLOO 

ONE  OF  THE  28TH 


TAKEN   FROM   THE 
ENEMY 


UNDER  THE  MENDIPS 
(G) 

*  CASTLE  DALY  (G) 
*MARY  BARTON  (G) 

To  HERAT  AND  CABUL 

THE  WAR  OF  THE  AXE 
*RAVENSHOE 


A   GALLANT   GRENA- 
DIER (B) 


FOR  THE  OLD  FLAG(£) 
THE  DISPUTED  V.C. 


M.  M.  Blake 
(Jarrold  &  Sons) 

O.  V.  Caine 

(J.  Nisbet  &  Co. ;  and  A.  I. 
Bradley  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son ;  and  C. 
Scribner'sSons,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Newbolt 

(Chatto  &  Windus;  and 
Rand,  McNally  &  Co., 
U.S.  A.) 

Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley& Co.;  and  Dutton, 
U.S.A.) 

Miss  Keary 
(Macmillan  &  Co.) 

Mrs.  Gaskell 

(Smith,  Elder,  &  Co.;  and 
Ward,  Lock,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Percy-Groves 
(Blackie  &  Son) 

Henry  Kingsley 

(Ward,  Lock,  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

Captain  Brereton 

(Blackie  &  Son  ;  and  C. 
Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

Clive  R.  Fenn 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

Frederick  P.  Gibbon 
(Blackie  &  Son) 


George  III. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 
George  IV. 

William  IV. 

Victoria  (early). 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ditto. 


163 

In  connection  with  this  subject  of  Juvenile  Literature, 
I  would  draw  attention  to  Messrs.  Constable's  "  Library  of 
Historical  Novels  and  Romances  "  so  admirably  edited  by 
Mr.  G.  Laurence  Gomme.  Readers  (old  as  well  as  young) 
are  still  further  indebted  to  Mr.  Gomme  for  his  well-arranged 
series  of  extracts  taken  from  Romantic  Literature  in  the 
four  volumes  entitled,  "The  King's  Story  Book,"  "The 
Queen's  Story  Book,"  "The  Prince's  Story  Book,"  and 
the  Princess's  Story  Book."  (Constable  &  Co.;  and 
Longmans  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

A  little  work,  likely  to  prove  useful  for  purposes  of 
selection  and  identification,  is  Mr.  Henry  Grey's  "  A  Key 
to  the  Waverley  Novels  in  Chronological  Sequence  "  (Son- 
nenschein  &  Co.). 

In  the  School  World  for  August,  1903,  may  be  found  an 
article  ("  Some  Holiday  Reading  in  Fiction  ")  by  Mr.  C.  S. 
Fearenside,  mentioning  a  large  number  of  novels  and  tales 
which  cover  the  period  1763 — 1878  in  British  Colonial  His- 
tory. I  would  bring  under  notice  yet  another  article  by 
Mr.  Fearenside  on  "  True  Story-Books  of  English  History" 
in  the  School  World  for  August,  1902  ;  in  an  interesting 
manner  the  author  touches  on  some  representative  examples 
of  a  class  of  literature  which,  though  it  is  naturally  outside 
the  scope  of  the  present  volume,  may  be  alluded  to  at  this 
point  as  coming  between  Fiction  and  History  proper. 
And  this  leads  me  to  specify  another  important  historical 
medium — that  of  Poetry.  Miss  C.  L.  Thomson's  "  Carmina 
Britannise  "  (Horace  Marshall  &  Son)  contains  an  excellent 
selection  of  "poems  and  ballads  illustrative  of  English 
History";  useful  aid  in  the  same  direction  is  offered 
by  Mr.  J.  A.  Nicklin  in  his  "  Poems  of  English  History  " 
(A.  &  C.  Black) — besides  giving  ballads  and  shorter  pieces, 

M — 2 


164 

he  has  selected  illustrative  passages  from  Shakespeare  and 
the  Dramatists.  In  "  War  Songs  of  Britain  "  (Constable 
&  Co.)  Mr.  Harold  E.  Butler  has  given  us  a  collection  of 
Poems  and  Songs  relating  to  Battles,  &c.,  in  British  His- 
tory (Boadicea  to  Ladysmith).  In  "  Songs  of  England's 
Glory  "  (Isbister,  1903),  we  find  yet  another  anthology  of 
British  Poems  and  Ballads,  selected  to  illustrate  "  episodes 
of  our  National  History."  A  volume  of  special  interest  to 
American  readers  is  the  very  charming  "New  England 
History  in  Ballads,"  by  Edward  Everett  Hale  and  his 
children,  "with  a  few  additions  by  other  people"  (Little, 
Brown,  &  Co.,  1903). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

ALTHOUGH  I  have  adopted  the  heading  "  Bibliography,"  it 
should  be  understood  that,  in  offering  the  subjoined  list,  I 
do  not  claim  for  it  absolute  comprehensiveness.  There 
are,  of  course,  almost  innumerable  Biographies,  Literary 
Studies,  Histories  of  Literature  and  Fiction,  &c.,  in  which 
-indirect  references  to  our  subject  may  be  traced.  Moreover, 
in  preparing  this  little  volume,  it  has  been  found  necessary 
to  consult  largely  "  The  Dictionary  of  National  Biography," 
the  Encyclopaedias  (the  Britannica,  Chambers',  &c.),  "  Ap- 
pleton's  Cyclopaedia  of  American  Biography,"  and  other 
Standard  Works  of  the  Dictionary  type.  I  confine  myself 
below  to  noteworthy  writings  which  deal  directly  with  the 
subject  of  Historical  Romance. 

Article  on  Historical  Romance  in  The  Quarterly  Revino.  Vol.  XXXV., 
page  518.  (March,  1827.) 

Article  on  Historical  Romance  ("Sir  Walter  Scott  and  his  Imitators,") 
in  fraser's  Magazine.  Vol.  V.,  pages  6  (Part  I.)  and  207  (Part  II.). 
(February  and  March,  1832. ) 

Article  on  "The  Picturesque  Style  of  Historical  Romance"  in  Blackwootfs 
Magazine.  Vol.  XXXIII. ,  page  621.  (April,  1833.) 

Article  on  "  Historical  Romance  in  Italy,"  by  G.  W.  Greene,  in  The 
North  Amaican  Review.  Vol.  XLVI.,  page  325.  (April,  1838.) 

Article  on  Historical  Romance  in  Blackwoo<?s  Magazine.     Vol.  LVIII., 

page  341.     (September,  1845.) 
[Afterwards  appeared  in  Vol.  III.  of  Sir  Archibald  Alison's  "  Essays."] 


1 68 

Article  on  Historical  Romance,  by  G.  H.  Lewes,  in  The  Westminster 
Review.  Vol.  XLV.,  page  34.  (March,  1846.) 

Article  on  "  History  in  Fiction,"  in  The  Dublin  Review.  VoL  XLV., 
page  328.  (December,  1858.) 

Lecture  III.  ("Scott  and  his  Influence")  in  David  Masson's  "British 
Novelists  and  their  Styles."  (Macmillan,  1859.) 

Article  on  "  Historical  Novels,"  by  H.  James,  jun.,  in  The  Nation.  Vol. 
V.,  page  126.  (August  I5th,  1867.) 

Article  on  Historical  Romance  in  The  Argosy.  Vol.  XVII.,  page  364. 
(May,  1874.) 

The  Historical  Sections  in  the  Boston  Public  Library  Catalogue  of 
"  English  Prose  Fiction."  (Boston,  1877.) 

[The  brief  Preface  by  Justin  Winsor  has  some  interesting  remarks  on 
the  Historical  Novel.] 

Chapter  X.  ("The  Waverley  Novels")  in  R.  H.  Hutton's  "Sir  Walter 
Scott."  (Macmillan's  English  Men  of  Letters  Series,  1878.) 

The  Essay  on  "  The  Waverley  Novels  "  in  Vol.  II.  of  Walter  Bagehot's 
"  Literary  Studies."  (Longmans,  1879.) 

"  A  descriptive  Catalogue  of  Historical  Novels  and  Tales.  For  the  use 
of  School  Libraries  and  Teachers  of  History.  Enlarged  from  the 
List  in  the  'Journal  of  Education,'  March,  1882."  Compiled  and 
described  by  H.  Courthope  Bowen,  M.A.  (Edward  Stanford, 
1882;  and  Scribner  &  Welford,  U.S.A.,  1884.) 

The  section  on  "The  Historical  Novel,"  in  Bayard Tuckerman's  "History 
of  English  Prose  Fiction."  (S.  Low  &  Co.;  and  G.  P.  Putnam's 
Sons,  U.S.A.,  1882.) 

The  list  of  Historical  Novels  given  in  W.  F.  Allen's  "  The  Reader's  Guide 
to  English  History.  With  Supplement,  extending  the  plan  to  other 
countries  and  periods."  (Ginn  &  Co.,  1888.) 

[A  useful,  but  very  unequal  list.] 

The  Essay  on  "  Historical  Fiction"  in  W.  F.  Allen's  "  Essays  and  Mono- 
graphs." (Geo.  H.  Ellis,  Boston,  1890.) 

[An  extremely  interesting  essay  by  one  who  was  well  qualified  to  treat 
of  the  subject.] 


i6g 

The  partially-selective  list  of  Historical  Novels  in  "A  Guide  Book  to 
Books,"  by  E.  B.  Sargant  and  B.  Whishaw.  (II.  Frowde,  1891  ; 
and  Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

The  partially-selective  list  of  Historical  Novels  given  in  the  "  Subject  and 
Chronological  Index  to  Fiction,"  compiled  by  Alfred  Cotgreave, 
F.R.H.S. — being  a  section  of  the  Guille-Alles  Library  "Encyclo- 
paedic Catalogue."  (Guernsey  :  Guille-Alles  Library  ;  London  and 
Manchester  :  Henry  Sotheran  &  Co.,  1891.) 

The  essay  on  "  Sir  Walter  Scott,"  in  Vol.  I.  of  Leslie  Stephen's  "  Hours 
in  a  Library."  (Smith,  Elder,  £  Co.,  1892;  and  Putnam,  U.S.A. 
New  edition,  with  additions.) 

[Sir  Leslie  Stephen  is  one  of  the  most  formidable  critics  with  whom 
the  lover  of  Historical  Romance  has  to  deal.  That  which  it  is  possible 
to  say  against  such  fiction  is  said  more  forcibly  by  him,  perhaps,  than  by 
anyone  else.] 

The  series  of  articles  dealing  with  "  History  in  Fiction,"  &c.,  by  J.  B. 
Carlile,  in  Great  Thoughts,  October,  1892,  to  March,  1894. 

Article  "  The  Historical  Novel,"  by  Prof.  A.  J.  Church  in  Atafanta  for 
April,  1893. 

The  useful  and  partially -selective  lists  of  Historical  Tales  given  in  "  The 
Intermediate  Textbook  of  English  History,"  by  C.  S.  Fearenside 
and  A.  Johnson  Evans.  (W.  B.  Clive,  University  Tutorial  Press, 
Ltd.,  1893,  &c.) 

The  short  selective  list  of  Historical  Tales  given  in  the  appendix  to  John 
Fiske's  "History  of  the  United  States  for  Schools."  (James 
Clarke  &  Co.,  1894;  and  Houghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Article  on  "  The  Historical  Novel  as  illustrated  by  Sir  Walter  Scott,"  by 
Edwin  Lester  Arnold,  in  Atalanta  for  March,  1894. 

The  essay  on  "  The  Historical  Novel "  in  W.  P.  James's  "  Romantic 
Professions  and  other  papers."  (Elkin  Mathews  and  John  Lane, 
1894.) 

[A  reprint,  in  somewhat  revised  form,  of  the  suggestive  article  appearing 
in  Macmillatfs  Magazine,  November,  1887.] 


170 

Chapter  X.  ("Sir  Walter  Scott")  in  Prof.  Raleigh's  "The  English 
Novel."  (John  Murray,  1894 ;  and  C.  Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

The  essay  on  "  Le  Reman  Historique  "  in  "  La  Vie  et  les  Lavres  "  (First 
Series)  by  Gaston  Deschamps  (Armand  Colin  et  Cie.,  Paris,  1894). 

[A  brief  survey  of  certain  modern  French  Novelists  as  represented  in 
the  excellent  "  Bibliotheque  de  Romans  historiques  "  (Armand  Colin) ;  the 
introductory  remarks  are  suggestive  and  possess  some  general  interest.] 

Chapters  X.,  XI.,  and  XTT.  in  Prof.  Salisbury's  "Essays  in  English 
Literature,  1780 — 1860.  Second  series."  (J.  M.  Dent  &  Co., 
1895  ;  and  C.  Scribner's  Sons,  U.S.A.) 

[Originally  appeared  in  Macmillaris  Magazine,  August,  September, 
and  October,  1894.  A  contribution  to  the  subject  of  quite  exceptional 
brilliance  and  value.] 

"  A  descriptive  List  of  Novels  and  Tales  dealing  with  the  History  of 
North  America,"  by  W.  M.  Griswold.  (Cambridge,  U.S.A.,  1895.) 

The  Section  headed  "  Historical  Tales "  in  "  Guide  to  the  Study  of 
American  History,"  by  E.  Channing  and  A.  B.  Hart.  (Ginn  &  Co., 
1896.) 

A  Letter  on  "  Historical  Novels,  Past  and  Present,"  by  "Mazarin,"  in  The 
Bookman  (English),  October,  1896. 

The  various  historical  sections  in  "  The  Comprehensive  Subject-Index  to 
Universal  Prose  Fiction "  compiled  and  arranged  by  Zella  Allen 
Dixson,  A.M.,  Associate  Librarian  of  the  University  of  Chicago. 
(Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co.,  New  York,  1897.) 

[Excellent  in  scope,  but  not  always  accurate.] 

Article  on  "  The  Indian  Mutiny  in  Fiction,"  in  Blackwootfs  Magazine, 
February,  1897. 

Article  on  "  The  Importance  of  Illustrating  New  England  History  by  a 
series  of  Romances,"  by  Rufus  Choate,  in  The  New  England 
Magazine,  November,  1897. 

[Reprint — somewhat  abridged — of  an  Address  delivered  at  Salem  in 
1833.  See  also  the  volume  "Addresses  and  Orations"  (Little,  Brown, 
&  Co.,  1878).] 


Paper  read  before  the  College  of  Preceptors,  on  "  The  Use  of  Historical 
Romances  in  the  Teaching  of  History."  by  R.  F.  Charles,  in  The 
Educational  Times,  November,  1897. 

Article  on  "  The  American  Historical  Novel,"  by  Paul  Leicester  Ford,  in 
The  Atlantic  Monthly,  December,  1897. 

[In  this  article  a  definition  of  the  "Historical  Novel"  at  variance 
with  my  own,  has  been  suggested.  In  spite  of  Mr.  Ford's  argument,  I  am 
still  of  opinion  that  the  line  of  demarcation  between  the  Historical  Novel 
proper  and  the  Novel  of  Character  or  Adventure  can  be  more  clearly 
drawn  than  he  allows.  I  was  careful,  when  dealing  with  this  question  in 
my  Introduction,  to  avoid  making  the  test  one  of  actual  historical  accuracy, 
but  there  are,  I  have  implied,  certain  readily-verifiable  personages  and 
events  which  form  a  basis  amply  sufficient  for  purposes  of  distinction.  The 
pirates  of  "Treasure  Island"  are  taken  (as  Mr.  Ford  says)  from  actual 
figures  of  the  Eighteenth  Century,  but  under  my  definition  Stevenson's 
novel  is  not  thereby  constituted  "  historical "  in  the  strict  sense.] 

Article  on  "The  Neo  Romantic  Novel,"  by  G.  R.  Carpenter,  in  The 
Forum,  March,  1898. 

Article  on  "  Historical  Novels  Past  and  Present,"  by  Harold  Frederic,  in 
The  Bookman  (American),  December,  1898. 

[An  admirably-written,  stimulating  article.] 

List  of  Historical  Novels,  &c.,  illustrating  the  Period  1066  to  1815,  in  the 
volume  "  Work  and  Play  in  Girls'  Schools,"  by  Dorothea  Beale, 
Lucy  H.  M.  Soulsby,  and  Jane  Frances  Dove  (Longmans,  1898.) 

Le  Roman  Historique  &  1'Epoque  romantique,"  by  Louis  Maigron 
(Hachette  et  Cie.,  Paris,  1898.) 

[Contains  a  fine  tribute  to  Scott,  and  much  interesting  matter.] 

Chapters  III.  and  IV.  of  "  The  Development  of  the  English  Novel,"  by 

W.  L.  Cross  (Macmillan,  1899). 

[A  very  full  treatment.  In  the  Appendix  are  some  useful  lists  of  the 
earlier  Historical  Novels.] 

The  Historical  Sections  in  "  Descriptive  Handbook  to  the  more  note- 
worthy works  of  Prose  Fiction  in  the  Library  of  the  Midland 
Railway  Institute,  Derby,"  by  Ernest  A.  Baker,  M.A.  (Midland 
Railway  Institute,  Derby,  1899.) 


172 

Article  on  "  Three  American  Historical  Romances,"  by  W.  E.  Simonds, 
in  The  Atlantic  Monthly,  March,  1900. 

Article  on  "  The  Reading  of  Historical  Novels  and  the  Study  of  History," 
by  Ada  Shurmer,  in  The  Scots  Magazine,  April,  1900. 

Chapter  III.  ("The  Historical  Novel")  in  F.  H.  Stoddard's  "The 
Evolution  of  the  English  Novel"  (Macmillan,  1900). 

[A  highly  important  contribution.] 

The  two  sections  on  Historical  Fiction,  relating  to  Greece  and  Rome 
respectively,  in  Arthur  L.  Goodrich's  "  Topics  of  Greek  and  Roman 
History  (Macmillan,  1900). 

[For  those  requiring  a  fuller  list  of  Greek  and  Roman  tales  than  that 
given  in  my  pages,  the  above  will  be  found  useful.] 

Article  on  "  Historical  Novels  and  their  uses  in  teaching,"  by  C.  S. 
Fearenside,  in  The  School  World,  November,  1900. 

[An  exceptionally  good  article.  The  writer  states  his  case  clearly  and 
forcibly,  and  his  argument  is  all  the  more  convincing  by  reason  of  its 
moderation.] 

Article  on  "  The  New  Historical  Romances,"  by  W.  D.  Howells,  in  The 
North  American  Review,  December,  1900. 

The  Essay  on  "The  Historical  Novel"  in  Prof.  J.  Brander  Matthews' 
"The  Historical  Novel  and  other  Essays"  (C.  Scribner's  Sons,  1901). 

[Originally  appeared  in  The  Forum,  September,  1897.  Represents 
that  School  of  Criticism  which  is  most  adverse  to  Historical  Romance. 
Some  of  the  Professor's  remarks  convey  the  impression  that  he  disbelieves 
in  any  reconstruction  of  the  Past ;  such  an  article  is,  surely,  unfavourable 
to  History  itself ,  which  is  always  more  than  any  mere  statement  of  "facts."] 

Article  on  "  Great  War  Novels,"  by  Jane  H.  Findlater,  in  The  National 
Review for  July,  1901  (also  appeared  in  The  Living  Age,  August  24). 

[Sienkiewicz,  Tolstoy,  and  Zola  compared  as  representing  three 
different  schools — the  Epic.-  the  Emotional,  and  the  Realistic.  Incidentally 
the  authoress  ably  defines  the  province  of  Historical  Romance.] 


173 

The  Chapters  on  Ancient  and  Modern  History  in  James  Baldwin's  "  The 
Book  Lover."  (A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.,  Chicago,  1902.  Revised 
edition,  with  new  lists  and  additional  matter.) 

The  list  of  Historical  Tales  given  in  J.  S.  Lindsey's  "Certificate  Note- 
Book  of  European  History,  1814—1848."  (Heflfer  &  Sons, 
Cambridge,  1902.) 

"  History  of  English  Romanticism  in  the  Nineteenth  Century,"  by  Henry 
A.  Beers.     (Kegan,  Paul,  &  Co.,  1902  ;  and  Henry  Holt  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 
[Contains  some  valuable  direct  criticism.     See  especially  Chapter  I.] 

Article  on  "The  Novel  of  American  History,"  by  Annie  Russell  Marble, 
in  The  Dial  (Chicago)  for  the  first  half  of  June,  1902. 
[An  extremely  interesting,  well-balanced  article.] 

Article  on  "  Venice  in  Recent  Fiction,"  by  Louise  Closser  Hale,  in  The 
Bookman  (American)  for  February,  1903. 

[Marion  Crawford,  Mrs.  Turnbull,  and  Max  Pemberton  compared. 
A  good  plea  for  Venetian  History  as  "  material."] 

Article  on  "  Battles  in  Fiction,"  by  Eveline  C.  Godley,  in  The  National 
Review  for  March,  1903. 

[The  authoress  knows  her  subject  well ;  in  a  brief  but  distinct  survey 
she  takes  her  examples  from  Tolstoy,  Erckmann-Chatrian,  Zola,  &c.] 

The  "Historical  Appendix"  in  E.  A.  Baker's  "Guide  to  the  Best 
Fiction."  (Sonnenschein  &  Co.,  London;  and  The  Macmillan  Co., 
New  York,  1903). 

[Seems  to  indicate,  here  and  there,  a  lack  of  first-hand  investigation, 
but  most  useful  and,  on  the  whole,  accurate.] 

The  useful  classified  lists  of  Historical  Novels  given  in  J.  S.  Lindsey's 
"Problems  and  Exercises  in  British  History,"  Parts  I. — IV. 
(Heifer  &  Sons,  Cambridge,  1903 — 4.) 

Article  on  "  History  in  Fiction,"  by  Philip  Sidney  in  The  Gentleman's 
Magazine  for  December,  1903. 

[Urges  accuracy  in  Historical  groundwork ;  it  is  contended  that  this 
may  be  effected  ' '  without  wearying  the  reader  with  dryasdust  .  .  . 
information,"  and  "John  Inglesant  "  is  cited  as  a  crowning  instance.] 


The  lists  of   Historical  Novels  and  Tales  in    Mudie's    Select   Library 
Catalogue,  published  in  January  each  year. 

[No  indication  as  to  merit,  and  barely  descriptive,  but  useful  more 
especially  on  the  Topographical  side.] 


NOTE. 


It  is  interesting  to  see  what  Novelists  themselves  have  said  on  the 
subject  of  Historical  Romance,  and  hi  this  connection  I  would  specially 
refer  to  the  "Dedicatory  Epistle"  in  Scott's  "Ivanhoe,"  the  very  brief 
but  exceedingly  suggestive  opening  section  in  Chapter  I.  of  Reade's 
"Cloister  and  the  Hearth,"  and  the  Preface  to  Scheffel's  "  Ekkehard." 


INDEX 

OF   AUTHORS    AND    TITLES 


INDEX. 

NOTE. — The  Birth  and  Death  dates  of  Authors  have  been  given  where 
possible ;  the  book  dates  refer  to  original  publication,  whether  in 
England,  America,  or  Foreign  parts.  (Translation  dates  are 
ignored). 


ABBOTT,  Dr.  Edwin  A.  (Author  of  "  Philochristus"),  b.  1838. 

Philochristus  (1878),  21,  135. 

Onesimus  (1882),  22. 
ACHARD,  Amedee,  1814 — 75. 

The  Golden  Fleece  (1875),  72. 
AGUILAR,  Grace,  1816 — 47. 

*Days  of  Bruce  (1852),  37,  147. 

Vale  of  Cedars  (1850),  45. 
AlNSWORTH,  W.  Harrison,  1805—82. 

Windsor  Castle  (1843),  4-8,  150. 

The  Tower  of  London  (1840),  50,  151. 

Crichton  (1837),  53. 

The  Lancashire  Witches  (1848),  58. 

The  Star  Chamber  (1854),  58. 

Guy  Fawkes  (1841),  58,  152. 

Ovingdean  Grange  (1860),  67. 

Old  St.  Paul's  (1841),  69,  155. 

St.  James's  (1844),  78. 

The  Miser's  Daughter  (1842),  83. 

Mervyn  Clitheroe  (1857 — 58),  124. 
ArrKEN,  J.  R. 

The  Sins  of  a  Saint  (1903),  31. 
ALCOCK,  Deborah. 

Not  for  Crown  or  Sceptre  (1902),  46. 

The  Spanish  Brothers  (1871),  51. 

Under  Calvin's  Spell  (1902),  52. 

Under  the  Southern  Cross  (1874),  54. 

•  Both  the  novels  given  were  published  posthumously. 


178 

"ALEXANDER,  Mrs."  (Mrs.  A.  Alexander  Hector),  1825 — 1902. 

The  Heritage  of  Langdale  (1877),  So,  158. 

Maid,  Wife,  or  Widow?  (1879),  113. 
"ALEXIS,  W."  (G.  Hating),  1798—1884. 

The  Burgomaster  of  Berlin  (1840),  44. 

Die  Hosen  des  Hernn  von  Bredow  (1846 — 48),  46. 

Ruhe  ist  der  erste  Biirgerflicht  (1852),  101. 

Isegrimm  (1854),  IOI. 
ALLARDYCE,  Alexander. 

Balmoral  (1893),  80. 
ALLEN.  James  Lane,  b.  1849. 

The  Choir  Invisible  (1897),  122. 

A  Kentucky  Cardinal  (1894),  126. 

Aftermath  (1895),  126 
ALTSHELER,  J.  A. 

A  Soldier  of  Manhattan  (1898),  88 

The  Sun  of  Saratoga  (1897),  92. 

A  Herald  of  the  West  (1898),' 104. 

Before  the  Dawn  (1903),  112. 
ANDREWS,  Mary  R.  S. 

Vive  1'Empereur  (1903),  108. 
ANONYMOUS. 

As  Others  Saw  Him  (1895),  22. 

Otterbourne  (1832),  40. 
ARMITAGE,  Alfred. 

Red  Rose  and  White  (1901),  43,  150. 
ARMSTRONG,  Jessie. 

My  Friend  Anne  (1901),  48,  150. 
ARNOLD,  E.  Lester. 

lyvinda  (1903),  22. 

The  Constable  of  St.  Nicholas  (1894),  45. 
ASTOR,  William  Waldorf,  b.  1848. 

Valentino  (1885),  46. 
ATHERTON,  Gertrude. 

The  Conqueror  (1902),  98. 
ATKINSON,  Eleanor. 

Mamzelle  Fifine  (1903),  89. 
AUERBACH,  Berthold,  1812 — 82. 

Spinoza  (1837),  71. 
AUSTEN,  Jane,  1775—1817. 

Pride  and  Prejudice  (1813),  123. 
AUSTIN,  Mrs.  J.  G.,  1831 — 94. 

Standish  of  Standish  (1889),  58. 

Betty  Alden  (1891),  58. 

A  Nameless  Nobleman  (1881),  58. 

Dr.  Le  Baron  and  His  Daughters  (1890),  58. 


179 

B 

BACHELLER,  Irving,  b.  1859. 

D'ri  and  I  (1901),  104. 

Eben  Holden  (1900),  127. 
BAILEY,  H.  C. 

My  Lady  of  Orange  (1901),  51. 

The  Master  of  Gray  (1903),  55. 

Karl  of  Erbach  (1903),  64. 
BAIN,  F.  W. 

Dmitri  (1890),  57. 
BAKER,  J.,  b.  1847. 

The  Gleaming  Dawn  (1894),  41. 

The  Cardinal's  Page  (1898),  42. 
BALFOUR,  Andrew,  b.  1873. 

By  Stroke  of  Sword  (1897),  55. 

To  Arms  (1898),  81,  159. 

Vengeance  is  Mine  (1899),  105. 
BALLANTYNE,  R.  M.,  1825 — 94. 

Erling  the  Bold  (1869),  30. 
BALZAC,  H.  de,  1799 — 1850. 

About  Catherine  de'  Medici  (1846),  52. 

The  Chouans  (1829),  99. 
BANIM,  J.,  1798—1842. 

The  Boyne  Water  (1826),  75. 
BANIM,  J.,  1798 — 1842,  and  M.,  1796 — 1874. 

The  Croppy  (1828),  98. 
BANKS,  Mrs.  G.  Linnaeus,  1821 — 97. 

The  Manchester  Man  (1876),  106. 
BANKS,  Nancy  H. 

Round  Anvil  Rock  (1903),  123. 

Oldfield  (1902),  126. 
BARMBY,  Beatrice  H. 

Rosslyn's  Raid  (1903),  56. 
BARR,  Amelia  E.,  b.  1831. 

The  Lion's  Whelp  (1902),  67,  155. 

Friend  Olivia  (1890),  68. 

The  Black  Shilling  (1903),  77. 

Thyra  Varrick  (1903),  83,  159. 

The  Bow  of  Orange  Ribbon  (1886),  86. 

A  Song  of  a  Single  Note  (1903),  93. 

The  Maid  of  Maiden  Lane  (1900),  96. 
BARR,  Robert,  b.  1850. 

A  Prince  of  Good  Fellows  (1902),  47. 

Over  the  Border  (1903),  60. 

The  Countess  Tekla  (Tekla),  (1899),  119. 

The  Strong  Arm  (1900),  119. 
BARRETT,  W.,  b.  1846,  and  E.  Barron. 

In  Old  New  York  (1900),  86. 

N — 2 


i8o 


BARRY,  Dr.  William,  b.  1849. 

The  Dayspring  (1903),  113. 
BEACONSFIELD,  Earl  of.     (See  Disraeli). 
BEARNE,  Mrs.  Catherine. 

The  Cross  of  Pearls  (1903),  38. 
BECKE,  Louis,  b.  1848,  and  Walter  Jeff ery. 
A  First  Fleet  Family  (1895),  96. 
The  Mutineer  (1898),  96. 
BELDEN,  Jessie  Van  Zile. 

Antonia  (1901),  59. 
BELLAMY,  Edward,  1850—98. 

The  Duke  of  Stockbridge  (1900),  93. 
BENNETT,  John. 

Master  Skylark  (1897),  56,  152. 
Barnaby  Lee  (1903),  71. 
BENSON,  B.  K. 

Bayard's  Courier  (1903),  1 12. 
Who  goes  there?  (1900),  112. 
Friend  with  the  Countersign  (1901),  112. 
BENSON,  E.  F.,  b.  1867. 

The  Vintage  (1898),  107. 
Capsina  (1899),  107. 
BESANT,  Walter,  1836 — 1901. 

For  Faith  and  Freedom  (1889),  73,  156. 
Dorothy  Forster  (1884),  81,  138,  158. 
The  World  went  very  well  then  (1887),  83. 
The  Orange  Girl  (1899),  90. 
St.  Katherine's  by  the  Tower  (1891),  95. 
BESANT,  Walter,  1836—1901,  and  James  Rice,  1843 — 82. 
The  Chaplain  of  the  Fleet  (1881),  85,  160. 
By  Celia's  Arbour  (1878),  127. 
SEVAN,  Tom. 

A  Lion  of  Wessex  (1902),  30. 
Beggars  of  the  Sea  (1904),  51. 
BIDDER,  M. 

In  the  Shadow  of  the  Crown  (1899),  38. 
BLACK,  William,  1841 — 98. 

Judith  Shakespeare  (1884),  58. 
BLACKMORE,  R.  D.,  1825 — 1900. 

LornaDoone  (1869),  73,  138,  156. 
Springhaven  (1887),  100. 
Alice  Lorraine  (1875),  102. 
The  Maid  of  Sker  (1872),  122. 
Perlycross  (1894),  125. 
BLAKE,  Bass. 

A  Lady's  Honour  (1902),  79. 
BLAKE,  M.  M. 

The  Siege  of  Norwich  Castle  (1893),  33»  r4S- 


BLAKE,  M.  M.— continued. 

Grantley  Fenton  (1901),  105,  162. 
BLAYNEY,  Owen. 

The  MacMahon  (1898),  76. 
BLISSETT,  Nellie  K. 

The  Most  Famous  Loba  (1901),  35. 
BODKIN,  M.  McD. 

The  Rebels  (1899),  97. 
"  BOLDREWOOD,  Rolf"  (T.  A.  Browne),  b.  1826. 

War  to  the  Knife  (1899),  in. 

The  Squatter's  Dream  (1895),  126. 
BORROW,  George,  1803 — 81. 

Lavengro  (1851),  123. 
BOURCHIER,  M.  H. 

The  Adventures  of  a  Goldsmith  (1898),  lOO. 
BRADDON,  M.  E.  (Mrs.  Maxwell),  b.  1837. 

In  High  Places  (1898),  60. 

London  Pride  (1896),  68. 

Mohawks  (1886),  82. 

Ishmael  (1884),  108. 
BRADY,  Cyrus  Townsend. 

Hohenzollern  (1902),  34. 

In  the  War  with  Mexico  (1903),  108. 

The  Southerners  (1903),  in. 
BRAINE,  Sheila  E. 

The  King^s  "  Blue  Boys  "  (1902),  87. 

The  Turkish  Automaton  (1899),  89. 
BRAMSTON,  M. 

Shaven  Crown  (1895),  28. 

The  Banner  of  St.  George  (1901),  39,  148. 

For  Faith  and  Fatherland  (1876),  51. 
BRERETON,  Captain  F.  S. 

In  the  King's  Service  (1901),  66,  154. 

Foes  of  the  Red  Cockade  (1904),  94. 

A  Gallant  Grenadier  (1902),  no,  162 
BRETON,  F.,  1864 — 1902. 

God  Save  England  (1899),  39. 

True  Heart  (1898),  46. 
BRITON,  E.  Vincent. 

Amyot  Brough  (1884),  87,  160. 
BRONTE,  Charlotte,  1816—55. 

Shirley  (1849),  123. 
BROOKS,  Elbridge  S.,  1846—1902. 

In  Blue  and  White  (1899),  92. 

A  Son  of  the  Revolution  (1898),  99. 

A  Boy  of  the  First  Empire  (1894),  100. 
BROWN,  Charles  Brocden,  1771 — 1810. 

Arthur  Mervyn  (1799),  122. 


182 

BRYDEN,  H.  A.,  b.  1854. 

An  Exiled  Scot  (1899),  84. 
BUCHAN,  John,  b.  1875. 

John  Burnet  of  Barns  (1898),  70. 

A  Lost  Lady  of  Old  Years  (1899),  84. 
BUCHANAN,  Robert,  1841 — 1901. 

The  Shadow  of  the  Sword  (1876),  105. 
BUCKLEY,  William. 

Croppies,  Lie  Down  (1903),  98. 
BURCHELL,  S.  H. 

In  the  Days  of  King  James  (1898),  58. 

The  Duke's  Servants  (1899),  59. 

Daniel  Herrick  (1900),  69. 

My  Lady  of  the  Bass  (1903),  75- 
BURGESS,  T-  J.  Haldane. 

The  Treasure  of  Don  Andres  (1903),  56. 
BURNETT,  Frances  Hodgson,  b.  1849. 

A  Lady  of  Quality  (1896;,  120. 

His  Grace  of  Osmonde  (1897),  120. 
BURNEY,  Frances  (Madame  D'Arblay),  1752  —  18 

Evelina  (1778),  122. 
BURTON,  J.  Bloundelle,  b.  1850. 

In  the  Day  of  Adversity  (1896),  72. 

The  Clash  of  Arms  (1897),  72. 

The  Scourge  of  God  (1898),  78. 

Across  the  Salt  Seas  (1898),  78,  158. 

The  Intriguers'  Way  (1903),  So. 

Servants  of  Sin  (1901),  82. 

Denounced  (1896),  84. 

Fortune's  My  Foe  (1899),  88. 
BYNNER,  E.  L.,  b.  1842. 

The  Begum's  Daughter  (1890),  77. 

Agnes  Surriage  (1886),  86. 


CABLE,  G.  W.,  b.  1844. 

The  Cavalier  ^1901),  112. 

The  Grandissimes  (1880),  123. 
CAHUN,  Leon. 

The  Blue  Banner  (1877),  35. 
CAINE,  Hall,  b.  1853. 

The  Shadow  of  a  Crime  (1885),  68. 
CAINE,  O.  V. 

Wanderer  and  King  (1903),  66,  155. 

Face  to  Face  with  Napoleon  (1898),  105,  1 6: 

In  the  Year  of  Waterloo  (1899;,  105,  162. 


CALLWELL,  J.  M. 

A  Champion  of  the  Faith  (1894),  41,  149. 
CANTU,  Cesare,  1807—95. 

Margherita  Pusterla  (1839),  38. 
CAPES,  Bernard. 

Love  like  a  Gipsy  (1901),  92. 
Adventures  of  the  Comte  de  la  Muette  (1898),  95. 
Our  Lady  of  Darkness  (1899),  95. 
A  Castle  in  Spain  (1903),  102. 
CAREY,  Wymond. 

Monsieur  Martin  (1902),  8l. 
For  the  White  Rose  (1903),  8l. 
CARLETON,  William,  1794—1869. 

Traits  and  Stories  of  the  Irish  Peasantry  (1830 — 33),  123. 
Black  Prophet  (1847),  124. 
CARPENTER,  W.  Boyd,  b.  1841. 

Narcissus  (1879),  23. 
CARR,  M.  E. 

Love  and  Honour  (1901),  101. 
"  CASKODEN,  E."    (See  Major,  Charles). 
CASTLE,  Agnes,  and  Egerton,  b.  1858. 
The  Bath  Comedy  (1900),  85. 
The  Pride  of  Jennico  (1898),  89. 
CATHERWOOD,  Mrs.  M.  H.,  1847 — 1902. 

The  Lady  of  Fort  St.  John  (1892),  63. 
The  Romance  of  Bollard  (1889),  68.' 
The  Story  of  Tonty  (1889),  77. 
Lazarre  (1902),  101. 
CHAMBERS,  Robert  W.,  b.  1865. 
Cardigan  (1901),  91. 
The  Maid  at  Arms  (1902),  91. 
Lorraine  (1898),  113. 
Ashes  of  Empire  (1898),  114. 
The  Maids  of  Paradise  (1903).  114. 
The  Red  Republic  (1895),  114. 
CHARLES,  Mrs.  ("  Author  of  Chronicles  of  the  Schonberg  Cotla  Family") 

1828—96. 

Conquering  and  to  Conquer  (1876),  26 
Sketches  of  Christian  Life  (The  Early  Dawn),  (1864),  29. 
Chronicles  of  the  Schonberg  Cotta  Family  (1864),  46. 
The  Draytons  and  the  Davenants  (1867),  62,  153. 
On  Both  Sides  of  the  Sea  (1868),  62,  155. 
CHESNEY,  Sir  George,  1830 — 95. 

The  Dilemma  (1876),  no. 
CHETWODE,  R.  D. 

The  Knight  of  the  Golden  Chain  (1898),  33,  146. 
John  of  Strathbourne  (1897),  49. 


184 

CHURCH,  A.  J.,  b.  1829. 

The  Fall  of  Athens  (Callias),  (1895),  20. 

A  Young  Macedonian  (1890),  20. 

Lords  of  the  World  (1898),  20. 

Two  Thousand  Years  Ago  (1886),  21. 

The  Burning  of  Rome  (1892),  22. 

To  the  Lions  (1889),  23. 

The  Chantry  Priest  of  Barnet  (1885),  43,  149. 

With  the  King  at  Oxford  (1886),  60,  153. 
CHURCH,  A.  J.,  and  Ruth  Putnam. 

The  Count  of  the  Saxon  Shore  (1887),  27. 
CHURCH,  A.  J.,  and  R.  Seeley. 

The  Hammer  (1890),  20. 
CHURCH,  S.  H. 

John  Marmaduke  (1897),  66,  154. 

Penruddock  of  the  White  Lambs  (1903),  67. 
CHURCHILL,  Winston,  b.  1871. 

Richard  Carvel  (1899),  91,  99. 

The  Crossing  (1903),  99. 

The  Crisis  (1901),  99.  in. 
"CLARE,  Austin"  (Miss  W.  M.  James). 

The  Carved  Cartoon  (1874;,  71. 
CLARK,  Alfred. 

Woe  to  the  Conquered  (1893),  21. 
CLARKE,  Mrs.  Henry. 

In  Jacobite  Days  (1904),  74,  157. 
CLARKE,  Marcus,  1846 — 81. 

For  the  Term  of  His  Natural  Life  (1874),  125. 
CLARKE,  Sarah  M.  S.  (Mrs.  Pereira). 

The  Duke's  Page  (1890),  49. 
"  CLEEVE,  Lucas  "  (Mrs.  Adelina  G.  I.  Kingscote). 

Free  Soil,  Free  Soul  (1903),  86. 
COBBAN,  J.  Maclaren,  1849—1903. 

The  Angel  of  the  Covenant  (1898),  66. 
COLERIDGE,  Gilbert  and  Marion. 

Jan  Van  Elselo  (1902),  50. 
COLERIDGE,  M.  E. 

The  King  with  Two  Faces  (1897),  89. 

The  Fiery  Dawn  (1901),  107. 
COLLINGWOOD,  W.  G. 

Thorstein  of  the  Mere  (1895),  31- 
COLLINS,  Wilkie,  1824 — 89. 

Antonina  (1850),  28. 
COMPTON,  Herbert,  b.  1853. 

The  Inimitable  Mrs.  Massingham  (1900),  98. 

A  Free  Lance  in  a  Far  Land  (1895),  98. 

The  Palace  of  Spies  (1903),  103. 

The  Queen  Can  Do  No  Wrong  (1903),  106. 


COMSTOCK,  Harriet  T. 

Tower  or  Throne  (1902),  55 
CONNELL,  F.  Norreys. 

The  Follies  of  Captain  Daly  (1901),  101. 
CONSCIENCE,  Hendrik,  1812 — 83. 

The  Lion  of  Flanders  (1848),  37. 

L'Annee  des  Merveilles  (1837),  51. 

La  Guerre  des  Paysans  (Veva),  (1853),  96. 
CONVERSE,  Florence. 

Long  Will  (1903),  39. 
COOKE,  J.  E..  1830-86. 

Fairfax  (1868),  86. 

The  Virginia  Comedians  (1854)}  90. 
COOPER,  J.  Fenimore,  1789—1851. 

The  Last  of  the  Mohicans  (1826),  88. 

Lionel   Lincoln  (1825),  91. 

The  Spy  (1821),  91. 

The  Pilot  (1823),  91. 
CORBETT,  Julian,  b.  1854. 

The  Fall  of  Asgard  (1886),  32. 

For  God  and  Gold  (1887),  55,  151. 

A  Business  in  Great  Waters  (1895),  96. 
CORNFORD,  L.  Cope. 

The  Master  Beggars  (1897),  50. 

Sons  of  Adversity  (1898),  55. 

Captain  Jacobus  (1897),  67,  155. 
CORNISH,  F.  Warre,  b.  1839. 

Sunningwell  (1899),  126. 
COUCH,  A.  T.  Quiller-  ("  Q  "),  b.  1863. 

The  Splendid  Spur  (1889),  60,  153. 

The  Blue  Pavilions  (1891),  75,  157. 

Hetty  Wesley  (1903),  83. 

Adventures  of  Harry  Revel  (1903),  102. 

The  Westcotes  (1902),  103. 
COWPER,  Frank. 

Caedwalla  (1888),  28. 

The  Captain  of  the  Wight  (1889),  44,  150. 
"  CRADDOCK,  C.  E."  (Mary  Noailles  Murfree),  b.  1850. 

The  Story  of  Old  Fort  Loudon  (1899),  88. 

A  Spectre  of  Power  (1903),  90. 
CRAIK,  Mrs.     (SeeMulock.) 
CRAKE,  A.  D. 

The  Camp  on  the  Severn  (1876),  24. 

Edwy  the  Fair  (1874),  31. 

Alfgar  the  Dane  (1875),  32. 

The  Rival  Heirs  (1882),  32,  145. 
CRANE,  Stephen,  1870 — 1900. 

The  Red  Badge  of  Courage  (1895),  IIJ- 


i86 

CRAWFORD,  F.  Marion,  b.  1854. 

Via  Crucis  (1899),  34. 

Marietta  (1901),  44. 

In  the  Palace  of  the  King  (1900),  51. 
CRESPIGNY,  Mrs.  Philip  C.  de. 

The  Mischief  of  a  Glove  (1903),  50. 

From  Behind  the  Arras  (1902),  82. 
CRESWICK,  Paul,  b.  1866. 

In  Alfred's  Days  (1900),  30. 

Under  the  Black  Raven  (1901),  30. 

Hastings  the  Pirate  (1902),  30. 
CROCKETT,  S.  R.,  b.  1860. 

Black  Douglas  (1899),  42. 

Red  Axe  (1898),  64. 

The  Men  of  the  Moss  Hags  (1895),  70. 

The  Standard  Bearer  (1898),  74. 

Lochinvar  (1897),  75. 

Flower  o'  the  Corn  (1902),  78. 

The  Raiders  (1894),  81. 

The  Dark  o'  the  Moon  (1902),  81. 

The  Firebrand  (1901),  107. 
CROLY,  George,  1780—1860. 

Tarry  Thou  Till  I  Come  (Salathiel,  1855),  21. 
CROWLEY,  Mary  C. 

A  Daughter  of  New  France  (1901),  76. 

The  Heroine  of  the  Strait  (1903),  90. 

Love  Thrives  in  War  (1903),  103. 
CUNNINGHAM,  Lady  F. 

The  Little  Saint  of  God  (1901),  95. 
CUTTS,  E.  L. 

The  Villa  of  Claudius  (1861),  26- 

D 

DAHN,  Felix,  b.  1834. 

A  Captive  of  the  Roman  Eagles  (1884),  25. 

Feiicitas  (1883),  27. 

The  Scarlet  Banner  (1885),  27. 

A  Struggle  for  Rome  (1876),  28. 
DASENT,  G.  W.,  1820—96. 

The  Vikings  of  the  Baltic  (1875),  31. 
DAUDET,  Ernest,  b.  1837. 

Rafael  (1895),  101. 
DAVIS,  W.  S.,  b.  1877. 

Belshazzar  (1902),  19. 

A  Friend  of  Caesar  (1900),  21. 

God  Wills  It  (1901),  33. 

The  Saint  of  the  Dragon's  Dale  £1903),  37. 


D'AZEGLIO,  M.,  1798—1866. 

The  Challenge  of  Barletta  (1833),  4^ 

The  Maid  of  Florence  (Niccolo  de'  Lapi),  (1841),  46,  136. 
DEEPING,  Warwick. 

Uther  and  Igraine  (1903),  119. 
DEFOE,  Daniel,  1660—1731. 

Memoirs  of  a  Cavalier  (1724),  62. 

Journal  of  the  Plague  (1722),  69. 

Captain  Singleton  (1720),  120. 
DEVEREUX,  Mary 

From  Kingdom  to  Colony  (1900),  91. 

Lafitte  of  Louisiana  (1902),  103. 
DICKENS,  Charles,  1812 — 70. 

Barnaby  Rudge  (1841),  90,  138,  160. 

A  Tale  of  Two  Cities  (1859),  94,  138,  160. 
DICKESON,  Alfred. 

Tychiades  (1903),  20. 
DlCKSON,  Harris. 

The  Black  Wolfs  Breed  (1901),  72. 

The  Siege  of  Lady  Resolute  (1902),  78. 

She  who  hesitates  (1903),  80. 
DISRAELI,  B.,  1804—81. 

Sybil  (1845),  I2S- 
Dix,  Beulah  Marie. 

Soldier  Rigdale  (1899).  59. 

Hugh  Gwyeth  (1899),  61,  154. 

Life,  Treason,  and  Death  of  James  Blount  (1903),  6l. 

A  Little  Captive  Lad  (1902),  67,  155. 

The  Making  of  Christopher  Ferringham  (1901),  67. 
Dix,  B.  M.,and  C.  A.  Harper. 

The  Beau's  Comedy  (1902),  122. 
DORR,  Julia  C.  R. 

In  Kings'  Houses  (1899),  78. 
DOYLE,  A.  Conan,  b.  1859. 

The  White  Company  (1891),  39,  147. 

The  Refugees  (1893),  72. 

Micah  Clarke  (1889),  73,  156. 

Rodney  Stone  (1896),  99. 

Uncle  Bernac  (1897),  100. 

The  Exploits  of  Brigadier  Gerard  (1896),  105. 

The  Adventures  of  Gerard  (1903),  105,  106. 

The  Great  Shadow  (1892),  105. 
DRUMMOND,  Hamilton,  b.  1857. 

The  Beaufoy  Romances  (1902),  42. 

For  the  Religion  (1898),  52. 

A  Man  of  His  Age  (1899),  52. 

A  King's  Pawn  (1900),  53. 

A  Man's  Fear  (1903),  119. 


i88 


DRDMMOND,  Hamilton — continued. 

A  Lord  of  the  Soil  (1902),  119. 
DUMAS,  Alexandra,  1803 — 70. 

Ag6nor  de  Maule"on  (1846),  39. 

Ascanio  (1844),  49. 

The  Two  Dianas  (1846—47),  52. 

The  Page  of  the  Duke  of  Savoy  (1855),  52. 

Marguerite  de  Valois  (1845),  52. 

La  Dame  de  Monsoreau  (1846),  53. 

The  Forty  Five  (1848),  53. 

The  Three  Musketeers  (1844),  62,  137. 

Twenty  Years  After  (1845),  62,  65,  137. 

The  Black  Tulip  (1850),  71. 

The  Vicomte  de  Bragelonne  (1848—50),  71,  137. 

Le  Chevalier  d'Hannenthal  (1843),  Si. 

The  Regent's  Daughter  (1845),  82. 

Olympe  de  Cleves  (1852),  88. 

Memoirs  of  a  Physician  (1846 — 48),  88. 

The  Queen's  Necklace  (1850),  89. 

Ange  Pitou  (1853),  93- 

La  Comtesse  de  Charny  (1853—55),  93- 

Chevalier  de  Maison  Rouge  (1846),  93. 

The  Whites  and  the  Blues  (1868),  96. 

The  Companions  of  Jehu  (1857),  98. 

The  She  Wolves  of  Machecoul  (1859),  107. 


E 

EBERS,  Georg,  1837—98. 

Uarda  (1877),  19. 

An  Egyptian  Princess  (1864),  19,  135. 

The  Sisters  (1880),  20. 

Cleopatra  (1894),  21. 

The  Emperor  (1881),  23. 

Per  Aspera  (1892),  24. 

Homo  Sum  (1878),  25. 

Serapis  (1885),  26. 

The  Bride  of  The  Nile  (1897),  28. 

In  the  Blue  Pike  (1896),  46. 

Barbara  Blomberg  (1897),  49. 

The  Burgomaster's  Wife  (1882),  51. 
ECKSTEIN,  Ernst,  b.  1845. 

Prusias  (1884),  21. 

Nero  (1889),  22. 

Quintus  Claudius  (1882),  23. 
EDEN,  C.  H. 

Afloat  with  Nelson  (1897),  101,  161. 


i  Sg 

EDGAR,  J.  G. 

Runnymede  and  Lincoln  Fair  (1866),  35,  146. 

How  I  Won  My  Spurs  (1863),  36,  147. 

Cre9y  and  Poictiers  (1865),  38,  148. 
EDGEWORTH,  Maria,  1767 — 1849. 

Castle  Rackrent  (1800),  121. 
EDWARDS,  M.  Betham,  b.  1836. 

A  Romance  of  Dijon  (1894),  95. 

The  Dream  Charlotte  (1896),  95. 

A  Storm-Rent  Sky  (1898),  95. 
EGGLESTON,  Edward,  1837—1902. 

The  Hoosier  Schoolmaster  (1872),  125. 
EGGLESTON,  G.  C.,  b.  1839. 

The  Big  Brother  (1875),  104. 

Signal  Boys  (1877),  104. 

Captain  Sam  (1876),  104. 

Dorothy  South  (1902),  127. 

The  Master  of  Warlock  (1903),  127. 
"  ELIOT,  George  "  (Mary  Anne  Cross,  nle  Evans),  1819 — So. 

Romola  (1863),  44,  136. 

Adam  Bede  (1859),  123. 

Middlemarch  (1871 — 72),  124. 

Felix  Holt  (1866),  124. 
ELLIS,  Beth. 

Barbara  Winslow  :  Rebel  (1903),  74. 
ELLIS,  E.  S.,  b.  1840. 

Uncrowning  a  King  (1899),  72. 
ELRINGTON,  H. 

In  the  Days  of  Prince  Hal  (1902),  41,  148. 

Ralph  Wynward  (1903),  56,  152. 

"ERCKMANN-CHATRIAN,     (Emile  Erckmann,  1822 — 99,  and  Alexandre 
Chatrian,  1826 — 90). 

The  Story  of  a  Peasant  (1863)  :— 
The  States-General,  94. 
The  Country  in  Danger,  94. 
Year  One  of  the  Republic,  944 
Citizen  Bonaparte,  94. 

Madame  The"rese  (1863),  94. 

The  Blockade  (1867),  105. 

The  Conscript  (1864),  105,  139. 

Waterloo  (1865),  105,  139. 

Story  of  the  Plebiscite  (1872),  113. 

F 
"  FAIRLESS,  Michael." 

The  Gathering  of  Brother  Hilarius  (1901),  39. 
FALKNER,  J.  Meade. 

Moonfleet  (1898),  85. 


i  go 

FARMER,  J.  E. 

Brinton  Eliot  (1902),  91. 
"  FARNINGHAM,  Marianne  "  (Mary  Anne  Hearne). 

A  Window  in  Paris  (1898;,  115. 
FARRAR,  Dean,  1831—1903. 

Darkness  and  Dawn  (1891),  22. 

Gathering  Clouds  (1895),  26- 
FARRINGTON,  Margaret  Vere. 

Fra  Lippo  Lippi  (1890),  42. 
FAYETTE,  Comtesse  de  la,  1634 — 93. 

Princesse  de  Clcves  (1678),  71. 
FENN,  Clive  R. 

For  the  Old  Flag  (1899),  no,  162. 
FENN,  G.  Manville,  b.  1831. 

The  King's  Sons  (1901),  29. 

The  Black  Tor  (1896),  58,  152. 

Ned  Leger  (1899),  83,  159. 
FERRIER,  Susan  E.,  1782—1854. 

Destiny  (1831),  123, 
FIELD,  Mrs.  E.  M. 

Ethne(i889),  66,  154. 
FIELDING,  Henry,  1707—54. 

Tom  Jones  (1749),  121. 
FILON,  Augustin,  b.  1841. 

L'Eleve  de  Garrick  (1891),  90. 

FlNNEMORE,  J. 

The  Lover  Fugitives  (1902),  73,  157. 

The  Story  of  a  Scout  (.1902),  102,  161. 
FLAUBERT,  Gustave,  1821 — 88. 

Salammbo  (1862),  20,  135. 
FLETCHER,  J.  S.,  b.  1863. 

Anthony  Everton  (1903),  60,  153. 

Mistress  Spitfire  (1896),  60. 

When  Charles  I.  was  King  (1892),  61,  154. 
FONTANE,  Theodor,  1819—98. 

Vor  dem  Sturm  (1878),  104. 
FORD,  P.  L.,  1865—1902. 

Janice  Meredith  (1899),  92. 
FORREST,  R.  E. 

Eight  Days  (1891),  no. 
FORREST,  THORPE. 

Builders  of  the  Waste  (1899),  27. 
FOSTER,  A.  J.,  and  E.  E.  Cuthell. 

The  Robber  Baron  of  Bedford  Castle  (1893),  36>  J46- 
Fox,  John. 

The  Little  Shepherd  of  Kingdom  Come  (1903),  in. 
FRANCILLON,  R.  E.,  b.  1841. 

Ropes  of  Sand  (1893),  96. 


FRANCIS,  Marian. 

Where  Honour  Leads  (1902),  83. 
FRANCIS,  M.  E.  (Mrs.  Blundell). 

Yeoman  Fleetwood  (1900),  106. 
FRANZOS,  Karl  Emil,  1848 — 1904. 

For  the  Right  (1882),  107. 
FREDERIC,  Harold,  1856 — 98. 

The  Deserter,  and  other  Stories  (1898)  :— 

How  Dickon  Came  by  his  Name,  43,  149. 
Where  Avon  into  Severn  Flows,  43,  149. 
The  Deserter,  112. 
A  Day  in  the  Wilderness,  1 12. 

In  the  Valley  (1890),  91. 

The  Copperhead,  and  other  Tales  (1894),  1 12. 
FRENCH,  Allen. 

The  Colonials  (1902),  91. 
FREYTAG,  Gustav,  1816—95. 

Our  Forefathers  (1872,  &c.),  25,  29. 

Debit  and  Credit  (1855),  125. 
FRITH,  Henry. 

Under  Bayard's  Banner  (1886),  48. 
FROUDE,  J.  A.,  1818—94. 

Two  Chiefs  of  Dunboy  (1889),  97. 
FULLER,  Hulbert. 

Vivian  of  Virginia  (1897),  73. 


GAINES,  Charles  K. 

Gorgo  (1903),  20. 
GALDOS,  B.  Perez,  b.  1849. 

Episodios  Nacionales  (1873—91)  :— 
Trafalgar  (1873),  100. 
Saragossa  (1885),  101. 
GALLET,  Louis. 

Captain  Satan  (Adventures  of  Cyrano  de  Bergerac)  (1899),  71. 
GALT,  John,  1779—1839. 

Ringan  Gilhaize  (1823),  74. 

Annals  of  the  Parish  (1821),  121. 
GARDNER,  Edmund  G.,  b.  1869. 

Desiderio  (1902),  119. 
GARNIER.  Russell  M.,  b.  1854. 

When  Spurs  were  Gold  (1902),  41,  149. 

The  White  Queen  (1899),  48. 

His  Counterpart  (1898),  72. 
GASKELL,  Mrs.,  1810—65. 

Cranford  (1853),  125. 

Mary  Barton  (1848),  126,  162. 


192 

GAULOT,  Paul. 

The  Red  Shirts  (1893),  95- 
GAUTIER,  Theophile,  1811—72. 

Captain  Fracasse  (1863),  120. 
GAY,  Madame  Sophie,  1776 — 1852. 

Marie  de  Mancini  (1839),  65. 
GIBBON,  Charles,  1848 — 90. 

The  Braes  of  Yarrow  (1881),  47. 
GIBBON,  Frederick  P. 

The  Disputed  V.C.  (1903),  in,  162. 
GIBNEY,  S. 

The  Maid  of  London  Bridge  (1892),  49,  151. 
GILBERT,  G. 

The  Baton  Sinister  (1903),  73. 

The  Island  of  Sorrow  (1903),  99. 
GILKES,  A.  H. 

Kallistratus  (1897),  20. 
GILLIAT,  E.,  b.  1841. 

God  Save  King  Alfred  (1901),  30. 

Forest  Outlaws  (1887),  34,  146. 

In  Lincoln  Green  (1897),  34,  146. 

Wolf's  Head  (1899),  35,  146. 

The  King's  Reeve  (1898),  36,  147. 

John  Standish  (1889),  39,  148. 
GLASGOW,  Ellen. 

The  Battleground  (1902),  in. 

The  Voice  of  the  People  (1900),  127. 
GLOVATSKI,  Alex. 

The  Pharaoh  and  the  Priest  (1897),  19. 
GODWIN,  W.,  1756 — 1836. 

St.  Leon  (1799),  49. 
GOGOL,  Nicolai  V.,  1809 — 52 

Taras  Bulba  (1834),  120. 
GOLDSMITH,  Oliver,  1728—74. 

The  Vicar  of  Wakefield  (1766),  121. 
GOODLOE,  Carter. 

Calvert  of  Strathore  (1903),  93. 
GOODWIN,  Mrs.  Maud  W.,  b.  1856. 

The  Head  of  a  Hundred  (1895),  59. 

Sir  Christopher  (1901),  59. 

White  Aprons  (1896),  73. 
GOULD,  S.  Baring-,  b.  1834. 

Domitia  (1898),  23. 

Perpetua  (1897),  24. 

Pabo  the  Priest  (1899),  33,  145. 

Noemi  (1895),  42. 

Guavas  the  Tinner  (1897),  56. 

Urith  (1891),  74. 


193 

GOULD,  S.  Baring — continued. 

In  Exitu.  Israel  (1870),  89. 

Cheap  Jack  Zita  (1893),  106. 

Royal  Georgia  (1901),  107. 
"  GRAEME,  Alastor  "  (Mrs.  F.  T.  Marryat). 

Romance  of  the  Lady  Arbell  (1900),  58. 
GRAHAM,  John  W. 

Nesera  (1886),  21. 
GRANT,  James,  1822 — 87. 

The  Captain  of  the  Guard  (1862),  42. 

The  Yellow  Frigate  (1855),  44,  150. 

Mary  of  Lorraine  (1860),  47,  151. 

Philip  Rollo  (1854),  64. 

Harry  Ogilvie  (1856),  66. 

The  Scottish  Cavalier  (1850),  74,  157. 

The  Aide-de-Camp  (1848),  101. 

The  Romance  of  War  (1846 — 47),  102,  161. 
GRANT,  J.  Gregor. 

Rufus;  or,  the  Red  King  (1838),  33. 
GRAS,  Fe"lix,  b.  1846. 

The  Reds  of  the  Midi  (1896),  94. 

The  Terror  (1898),  94. 

The  White  Terror  (1899),  94. 
GREEN,  E.  Everett,  b.  1856. 

A  Clerk  of  Oxford  (1898),  36,  147. 

The  Lord  of  Dyneover  (1892),  37,  147. 

My  Lady  Joanna  (1902),  37,  147. 

In  the  Days  of  Chivalry  (1893),  38,  148. 

Cambria's  Chieftain  (1904),  41,  148. 

In  the  Wars  of  the  Roses  (1899),  43,  149. 

White  Wyvill  and  Red  Ruthven  (1903),  43,  149. 

The  Heir  of  Hascombe  Hall  (1900),  46,  150. 

Shut  In  (1894),  51. 

In  Fair  Granada  (1902),  51. 

Dominique's  Vengeance  (1897),  54. 

The  Lost  Treasure  of  Trevlyn  (1901),  58,  152. 

After  Worcester  (1900),  67,  155. 

In  Taunton  Town  (1896),  74,  156. 

The  Young  Pioneers  (1897),  76. 

Tom  Tufton's  Travels  (1898),  78,  158. 

Tom  Tufton's  Toll  (1898),  78,  158. 

Fallen  Fortunes  (1903),  78,  158. 

A  Hero  of  the  Highlands  (1903),  84,  159. 

Castle  of  the  White  Flag  (1904),  1 14. 
GRIBBLE,  F. 

A  Romance  of  the  Tuileries  (1902),  109. 
"  GRIER,  Sydney  "  (Hilda  Grieg),  b.  1868. 

In  Furthest  Ind  (1894),  77. 


i94 

"  GRIER,  Sydney" — continued. 

Like  Another  Helen  (1899),  86. 
GRIFFIN,  G.,  1803—40. 

The  Invasion  (1832),  29. 

Duke  of  Monmouth  (1836),  74. 
GRIFFITH,  George. 

The  Virgin  of  the  Sun  (1898),  47. 
GROSSI,  T. 

Marco  Visconti  (1834),  38- 
GROVES.     (See  Percy-Groves.) 
GUERAZZI,  F.  D.     1804—73. 

La  Battaglia  di  Benevento  (1827),  35. 

Isabella  Orsini  (1844},  41. 

Beatrice  Cenci  (1854),  54. 
GULL,  C.  Ranger. 

The  Serf  (1902),  33. 
GWYNN,  Stephen. 

John  Maxwell's  Marriage  (1903),  121. 

H. 

HAGGARD,  H.  Rider,  b.  1856. 

Pearl  Maiden  (i9°3)>  22- 
Montezuma's  Daughter  (1894),  47. 
Lysbeth  (1901),  50. 
Swallow  (1899),  108. 

HALE,  E.  Everett,  b.  1822. 

In  His  Name  (1873),  34- 

Philip  Nolan's  Friends  (1876),  99. 

HALES,  A.  G. 

Jair  the  Apostate  (1902),  19. 
HALL,  Moreton. 

General  George  (1903),  100. 
HALL,  Ruth. 

The  Golden  Arrow  (1901),  68. 
HALL,  Mrs.  S.  C.,  1800— 81. 

The  Outlaw  (1831),  74- 

The  Whiteboy  (1855),  124, 
HAMILTON,  Bernard. 

Coronation  (1902),  41. 
HAMILTON,  Lord  Ernest,  b.  1858. 

Mary  Hamilton  (1901),  55. 

The  Outlaws  of  the  Marches  (1897),  56. 
HAMILTON,  Eugene  Lee. 

The  Lord  of  the  Dark-Red  Star  (1903),  35- 
HAMILTON,  Rev.  John  A. 

The  MS.  in  a  Red  Box  (1903),  60. 
HANCOCK,  Albert  Elmer. 

Henry  Bourland  (1901),  112. 


195 

HANCOCK,  S. 

Tonford  Manor  (1903),  48. 
HARCOURT,  Colonel  A.  F.  P. 

Jenetha's  Venture  (1899),  HO. 

The  Peril  of  the  Sword  (1903),  no. 
HARDY,  A.  Sherburae,  b.  1847. 

Passe  Rose  (1889),  29. 
HARRISON,  Frederic,  b.  1831. 

Theophano  (1903—4),  31. 
HATTON,  Joseph,  b.  1840. 

The  Dagger  and  the  Cross  (1897),  69. 
HAUFF,  W.,  1802 — 27. 

Lichtenstein  (1826),  46. 

HAUSRATH,  Professor.    (See  Taylor,  George). 
HAVERFIELD,  E.  L. 

Stanhope  (1903),  61,  153. 
HAWTHORNE,  Nathaniel,  1804—64. 

The  Scarlet  Letter  (1850),  120,  139. 

Young  Goodman  Brown  (1835),  120. 

Roger  Malvin's  Burial  (1832),  121. 

Legends  of  the  Province  House  (1838),  122. 

The  Blithedale  Romance  (1852),  125. 
HAYASHI,  Viscount. 

For  His  People  (1903),  65. 
HAVENS,  Herbert,  b.  1861. 

At  the  Point  of  the  Sword  (1903),  107. 

An  Emperor's  Doom  (1898),  113. 
HAYES,  F.  W. 

A  Kent  Squire  (1900),  79. 

Gwynnett  of  Thornhaugh  (1900),  79. 
HEIDENSTAM,  Werner  von,  b.  1859. 

A  King  and  His  Campaigners  (1897),  8l. 
HELME,  Elizabeth,  d.  1816. 

St.  Clair  of  the  Isles  (1804),  42. 
HELPS,  Sir  Arthur,  1813 — 75. 

Ivan  de  Biron  (1874),  87. 
HENHAM,  Ernest  George. 

The  Plowshare  and  the  Sword  (1903),  63. 
HENTY,  G.  A.,  1832 — 1902. 

Beric  the  Briton  (1893),  22- 

The  Dragon  and  the  Raven  (1886),  30. 

Wulf  the  Saxon  (1895),  32,  145. 

In  Freedom's  Cause  (1885),  37,  147. 

St.  George  for  England  (1885),  38,  148. 

A  March  on  London  (1898),  40,  148. 

The  Lion  of  St.  Mark  (1889),  40. 

Both  Sides  of  the  Border  (1899),  41,  148. 

At  Agincourt  (1897),  41,  149. 

O — 2 


HENTY,  G.  A. — continued. 

By  Right  of  Conquest  (1891),  47. 

By  Pike  and  Dyke  (1890).  51. 

By  England's  Aid  (1891),  51. 

The  Lion  of  the  North  (1886),  64. 

Won  by  the  Sword  (1900),  64. 

The  Bravest  of  the  Brave  (1887),  79,  158. 

The  Cornet  of  Horse  (1881),  79,  158. 

In  the  Irish  Brigade  (1901),  79. 

A  Jacobite  Exile  (1894),  81. 

With  Clive  in  India  (1884),  86,  160. 

With  Frederick  the  Great  (1898),  87. 

At  the  Point  of  the  Bayonet  (1902),  99,  161. 

With  Moore  at  Corunna  (1898),  102,  161. 

Under  Wellington's  Command  (1899),  102,  161. 

Through  Russian  Snows  (1896),  103. 

One  of  the  28th  (1889),  105,  162. 

To  Herat  and  Cabul  (1902),  108,  162. 

Out  with  Garibaldi  (1901),  109. 

With  Lee  in  Virginia  (1890),  112. 
HERVEY,  Maurice  H. 

Eric  the  Archer  (i895\  39,  148. 
HESEKIEL,  J.  G.  L. 

Two  Queens  (1869),  89. 
HEWLETT,  Maurice,  b.  1861. 

Life  and  Death  of  Richard  Yea-and-Nay  (1900),  34. 

New  Canterbury  Tales  (1901),  38. 

The  Queen's  Quair  (1903—4),  54. 

The  Forest  Lovers  (1898),  119,  139. 

Little  Novels  of  Italy  (1899),  119. 
HILLARY,  Max. 

The  Blue  Flag  (1898),  74. 
HINKSON,  H.  A. 

Silk  and  Steel  (1902),  62. 

The  King's  Deputy  (1899),  97. 

Up  for  the  Green  (1898),  98. 
HOARE,  E.  N. 

A  Turbulent  Town  (1879),  40. 
HOCKING,  Joseph. 

Lest  We  Forget  (1901),  50. 

A  Flame  of  Fire  (1903),  57. 

Follow  the  Gleam  (1903),  62. 

Mistress  Nancy  Molesworth,   (1899),  84,  159. 

The  Birthright  (1897),  85. 
HODGETTS,  J.  F. 

Kormak  the  Viking  (1903),  30. 
HOLLIS,  Gertrude. 

The  Son  of  -dElla  (1900),  28. 


197 

HOLLIS,  Gertrude—  continued. 

A  Scholar  of  Lindisfarne  (1902),  28. 

In  the  Days  of  St.  Anselm  (1901),  33,  145. 

Spurs  and  Bride  (1903),  35,  146. 
HoLROYD,  Caroline  C. 

Seething  Days  (1894),  49,  151. 
HOOPER,  I. 

His  Grace  o'  the  Gunne  (1898),  69. 

The  Singer  of  Marly  (1897),  77. 
"  HOPE,  Anthony  "  (Anthony  Hope  Hawkins),  b.   1863. 

Simon  Dale  (1898),  69. 
HOPE,  Graham. 

A  Cardinal  and  His  Conscience  (1901),  52. 

My  Lord  Winchenden  (1902),  68. 

The  Triumph  of  Count  Ostermann  (1903),  80. 
HOPKINS,  Mrs.  H.  M.     (See  Mackie). 

HOPKINS,  Tighe. 

For  Freedom  (1888),   109. 

HOPPUS,  Mary  A.  M. 

Masters  of  the  World  (1888),  23. 

A  Great  Treason  (1883),  92. 
HORNUNG,  E.  W.,  b.   1866. 

Denis  Dent  (1903),  126. 
HOUGH,  Emerson,  b.   1857. 

The  Mississippi  Bubble  (1902),  82. 

The  Girl  at  the  Halfway  House  (1900),  127. 
HOWARTH,  Mrs.  Anna. 

Sword  and  Assegai  (1899),  108. 

Katrina  (1898),    127. 
HOBBARD,  Elbert. 

Time  and  Chance  (1899),  ill. 

HUDSON,  H. 

Wild  Humphry  Kynaston  (1899),  44. 

HUDSON,  W.  H. 

El  Ombu  (1902),  102. 

HUGO,  Victor,   1802-85. 

Notre  Dame  (1831),  45,  136. 

L'An  '93  (1874),  94. 

Les  Miserables  (1862),  106. 
HUNT,  Leigh,  1784—1859. 

Sir  Ralph  Esher  (1832),  69. 

HUTCHINSON,  Horace  G. 

A  Friend  of  Nelson  (1902),  100. 
Crowborough  Beacon  (1903),  103. 


I. 
INGEMANN,  B.  S.,  1789 — 1862. 

Waldemar  (1824),  35. 
IRVING,  Washington,  1783-1859. 

Astoria  (1836),  123. 

Adventures  of  Captain  Bonneville  (1837),  123. 
ISHAM,  Frederick  S. 

Under  the  Rose  (1903),  49. 

JACOB,  Violet. 

The  Sheepstealers  (1902),  125. 
JAMES,  G.  P.  R.,  1801-60. 

Attila  (1837),  27. 

Castle  of  Ehrenstein  (1847),  35. 

Philip  Augustus  (1831),  35,  146. 

Forest  Days  (1843),  36,  147. 

The  Jacquerie  (1841),  39. 

Agincourt  (1844),  41,  149. 

The  Woodman  (1842),  44,  150. 

Mary  of  Burgundy  (1833),  44. 

Darnley  (1830),  48,  150. 

The  Brigand  (1841),  52. 

Richelieu  (1829),  63. 

Henry  Masterton  (1832),  65,  154. 
JENSEN,  Wilhelm,  b.  1837. 

Karine  (1878)  46. 
JEWETT,  Sarah  Orne,  b.  1849. 

The  Tory  Lover  (1901),  93. 
JOHNSON,  W.  H. 

The  King's  Henchman  (1897),  53. 

Under  the  Spell  of  the  Fleur-de-lis  (1899),  53. 
JOHNSTON,  Mary,  b.  1870. 

Sir  Mortimer  (1903 — 4),  55. 

By  Order  of  the  Company  (To  Have  and  to  Hold)  (1900),  59. 

The  Old  Dominion  (Prisoners  of  Hope)  (1898),  73. 

Audrey  (1902),  121. 
J6KAI,  M.,  b.  1825. 

Pretty  Michal  (1877),  65. 

'Midst  the  Wild  Carpathians  (1852),  71. 

The  Slaves  of  the  Padishah  (1853),  71. 

Halil  the  Pedlar  (1854),  82. 

The  Nameless  Castle  (1877),  101. 

The  Lion  of  Janina  (1852),   107. 

The  Green  Book  (1879),  107,  139. 

The  Baron's  Sons  (1869),  109. 

Manasseh  (1877),   109. 

A  Hungarian  Nabob  (1853),  I24- 


199 

J6SIKA,  Baron  Nicolas,  1794 — 1865. 

'Neath  the  Hoof  of  the  Tartar  (1856),  36. 
JUDD,  Sylvester,  1813—53. 

Margaret  (1845),  I23- 
JUNGHANS,  Sophie,  b.  1845. 

Haus  Eckberg  (1878),  64. 

K. 
KALER,  James  Otis,  b.  1846. 

Boys  of  1745  (1898),  86. 

At  the  Siege  of  Quebec  (1897),  92. 
KEARY,  Annie,  1825 — 79. 

Castle  Daly  (1875),   125,  162. 
KEELING,  Elsa  d'Esterre. 

The  Queen's  Serf  (1898),  79. 
KEIGHTLEY,  S.  R.,  b.  1859. 

The  Cavaliers  (1896),  61. 

The  Silver  Cross  (1898),  65. 

The  Crimson  Sign  (1895),  75. 

The  Last  Recruit  of  Clare's  (1897),  88. 

The  Pikemen  (1903),  98. 
KENNEDY,  J.  P.,  1795 — 1870. 

Horse-Shoe  Robinson  (1835),  93. 

Swallow  Barn  (1832),   122. 
KENNEDY,  Sarah  B. 

The  Wooing  of  Judith  (1902),  67. 

Joscelyn  Cheshire  (1901),  92. 
KENYON,  Edith  C. 

A  Queen  of  Nine  Days  (1903),  50,  151. 
KENYON,  Orr. 

Amor  Victor  (1902),  23. 
KER,  David. 

The  Wizard  King  (1895),  71. 

Torn  from  the  Foundations  (1902),  87. 
KING,  General  Charles,  b.   1844. 

Cadet  Days  (1894),  92. 

The  Iron  Brigade  (1902),  112. 
KINGSLEY,  Charles,   1819 — 75. 

Hypatia  (1853),  27,  135. 

Hereward  the  Wake  (1866),  32,  145. 

Westward  Ho  !  (1855),  56,   136,  152. 

Alton  Locke  (1850),   125. 
KINGSLEY,  Henry,  1830—76. 

Old  Margaret  (1871),  40. 

Mademoiselle  Mathilde  (1868),  94. 

Ravenshoe  (1862),  109,  162. 

Valentin  (1872),   114. 

Geoffrey  Hamlyn  (1859),   126. 


20O 

KIRBV,  William,  b.  1817. 

The  Golden  Dog  (Le  Chien  d'Or)  (1877),  88. 
KIRKMAN,  M.  M.,  b.  1842. 

The  Romance  of  Gilbert  Holmes  (1902),  108. 
KOKRNER,  Herman  T. 

Beleaguered  (1898),  64. 

L. 

LA  FAYETTE.  (See  Fayette). 
LANE,  Elinor  Macartney. 

The  Mills  of  God  (1901),  96. 
LANG,  Andrew,  b.  1844. 

A  Monk  of  Fife  (1896),  42. 
LAUBE,  H.,  1808 — 84. 

Der  Deutsche  Krieg  (1863),  64. 
LAUT,  A.  C. 

Heralds  of  Empire  (1902),  120. 

Lords  of  the  North  (1901),  124. 
LAWLESS,  Emily. 

Maelcho  (1890),  56. 

With  Essex  in  Ireland  (1894),  56. 
LE  BRETON,  John. 

Mis'ess  Joy  (1900),  106. 
LEE,  Albert. 

The  Black  Disc  (1897),  45. 

The  Inca's  Ransom  (1898),  47. 

The  Frown  of  Majesty  (1902),  72. 

The  Baronet  in  Corduroy  (1903),  78. 
LEIGHTON,  Robert,  b.  1859. 

Olaf  the  Glorious  (1895),  31. 

The  Thirsty  Sword  (1893),  36. 

The  Golden  Galleon  (1898),  56,  152. 

Cap'n  Nat's  Treasure  (1902),  90,  160. 
LEVER,  Charles,  1806 — 72. 

Tom  Burke  of  "Ours"  (1843),  101,  161. 

Charles  O'Malley  (1841),  102,  161. 
LIEFDE,  J.  B.  de. 

The  Beggars  (1868),  50. 

A  Brave  Resolve  (1883),  63. 
LILJENCRANTZ,  Ottilie  A. 

The  Thrall  of  Leif  the  Lucky  (1902),  31. 

The  Ward  of  King  Canute  (1903),  32. 
"LINDSAY,  Harry"  (Rev.  H.  L.  Hudson). 

The  Jacobite  (1898),  76. 
LOCKHART,  J.  G.,  1794—1854. 

Valerius  (1821),  23. 
LOVER,  Samuel,  1797 — 1868. 

Treasure  Trove  (1844),  83. 


2OI 


LOVER,  Samuel — continued. 

Rory  O'More  (1837),  97. 
LOWE,  Charles. 

A  Fallen  Star  (1895),  87. 
LUDLOW,  J.  M.,  b.  1841. 

Deborah  (1901),  20. 

Captain  of  the  Janizaries  (1887),  43. 
LUTHER,  Mark  L. 

The  Favor  of  Princes  (1899),  88. 
"LYALL,  Edna"  (Ada  E.  Bayly),  1856—1903. 

To  Right  the  Wrong  (1893),  62,  154. 

In  Spite  of  All  (1901),  62,  154. 

In  the  Golden  Days  (1885),  70,  156. 

Hope  the  Hermit  (1898),  76,  157. 
LYMAN,  Olin  L. 

The  Trail  of  the  Grand  Seigneur  (1903),  99. 
LYTTON,  Lord,  1803 — 73. 

The  Last  Days  of  Pompeii  (1834),  22,   135. 

Harold  (1848),  32,  135,   145. 

Rienzi  (1835),  38. 

The  Last  of  the  Barons  (1843),  43,  136,  149. 

Leila  (1838),  45. 

Devereux  (1829),  79. 

The  Parisians  (1873),  114. 

M. 

"  McAuLAY,  Allan  "  (Miss  Stewart). 

Poor  Sons  of  a  Day  (1902),  84. 

The  Rhymer  (1900),  96. 
MCCARTHY,  Justin,  b.  1830. 

Mononia  (1901),   108. 
MCCARTHY,  Justin  Huntly,  b.  1860. 

If  I  were  King  (1902),  44. 
McCHESNEY,  Dora  G. 

Cornet  Strong  of  Ireton's  Horse  (1903),  61. 

Miriam  Cromwell  (1897),  6l,  153. 

Rupert  by  the  Grace  of  God  (1899),  63. 

Kathleen  Clare  (1895),  66. 
MACDONALD,  George,  b.  1824. 

St.  George  and  St.  Michael  (1875),  6r. 
MACDONALD,  Ronald. 

God  Save  the  King  (1901),  68. 

The  Sword  of  the  King  (1900),  74. 
MCDONNELL,  Randal. 

Kathleen  Mavourneen  (1898),  97. 
MACFARLANE,  Charles. 

The  Camp  of  Refuge  (1844),  32,  145. 

A  Legend  of  Reading  Abbey  (1845),  34,  145. 


202 

MACGRATH,  Harold. 

The  Grey  Cloak  (1903),  65. 
MACKIE,  Pauline  B.  (Mrs.  H.  M.   Hopkins). 

The  Washingtonians  (1902),   in. 
McLAWS,  Miss  L. 

Jezebel  (1902),  19. 

When  the  Land  was  Young  (1901),  73. 
MACLAY,  Arthur  C. 

Mito  Yashiki  (1889),  109. 
MCLENNAN,  William. 

Spanish  John  (1898),  84. 
McMANUS,  L. 

Nessa  (1902),  67. 

The  Wager  (1902),  76. 

Lally  of  the  Brigade  (1899),  77. 
MACQUOID,  Katharine  S.,  b.  1824. 

His  Heart's  Desire  (1903),  63. 
MAITLAND,  Arthur  L. 

I  Lived  as  I  Listed  (1899),  68. 
MAJOR,  Charles  ("E.  Caskoden"). 

When  Knighthood  was  in  Flower  (1898),  48. 

Dorothy  Vernon  of  Haddon  Hall  (1902),  55. 
MAKGILL,  G. 

Outside  and  Overseas  (1903),  86. 
MALLING,  Mathilda. 

Romance  of  the  First  Consul  (1895),   100. 

Dofia  Ysabel  (1898),  102. 
MANN,  Millicent  E. 

Margot,  the  Court  Shoemaker  (1901),  72. 
MANNING,  Anne  ("Author  of  Mary  Powell"),  1807-79. 

A  Noble  Purpose  Nobly  Won  (1862),  42. 

The  Household  of  Sir  Thomas  More  (1851),  47,  150. 

The  Colloquies  of  Edward  Osborne  (1852),  50,  151. 

The  Maiden  and  Married  Life  of  Mary  Powell  (1855),  62,  137,  153. 

Cherry  and  Violet  (1853),  69,  156. 

Deborah's  Diary  (1858),  70,  155. 

The  Old  Chelsea  Bun  House  (1855),  78>  IS8- 
MANZONI,  Alessandro,   1785-1873. 

The  Betrothed  Lovers  (/  Promessi  Sfosf)  (1825),  63,  137. 
MARGUERITTE,  Paul,  b.  1860 ;  et  Victor,  b.  1866. 

Le  Jardin  du  Roi  (1902),  113. 

Une  Epoque  (1898,  etc.): — 
Le  De"sastre,   114. 
Les  Tron<;ons  du  Glaive,  114. 
Les  Braves  Gens,  114. 
La  Commune,   114. 
MARQUIS,  T.  G. 

Marguerite  de  Roberval  (1899),  49. 


203 

MARRYAT,  Captain,  1792 — 1848. 

The  Children  of  the  New  Forest  (1847),  61,  154. 

King's  Own  (1830),  97. 
MARSH  (MARSH-CALDWELL),  Mrs.  Anne,  1791 — 1874. 

Father  Darcy  (1846),  58. 
MARSHALL,  Beatrice. 

The  Siege  of  York  (1902),  60,  154. 

An  Old  London  Nosegay  (1903),  60,  153. 

Old  Blackfriars  (1901),  61,  152. 
MARSHALL,  Emma,  1832 — 99. 

Penshurst  Castle  (1894),  56,  152. 

The  Young  Queen  of  Hearts  (1898),  58,  152. 

Under  Salisbury  Spire  (1890),  59,  153. 

Winifrede's  Journal  (1892),  59,  153. 

A  Haunt  of  Ancient  Peace  (1897),  62,  153. 

The  White  King's  Daughter  (1898),  66,  155. 

In  Colston's  Days  (1884),  66. 

Winchester  Meads  (1891),  70,  156. 

In  the  East  Country  with  Sir  Thomas  Browne  (1885),  70,  156. 

In  the  Service  of  Rachel,  Lady  Russell  (1893),  7°»  *S&- 

In  Westminster  Choir  (1897),  7°- 

Kensington  Palace  (1895),  75)  I57- 

By  the  North  Sea  (1896),  75,  157, 

Under  the  Dome  of  St.  Paul's  (1898),  79,  158. 

The  Master  of  the  Musicians  (1895),  85,  159. 

The  Parson's  Daughter  (1899),  96,  160. 

Under  the  Mendips  (1886),  107,  162. 
MARTIN,  Ewan. 

Dauntless  (1901),  66,  154. 
MARTINEAU,  Harriet,  1802 — 76. 

The  Hour  and  the  Man  (1841),  100. 
MASON,  A.  E.  W.,  b.  1865. 

The  Courtship  of  Morrice  Buckler  (1896),  74,  157. 

Clementina  (1901),  8l,  159. 

Lawrence  Clavering  (1897),  8l. 
MASON,  A.  E.  W.,  and  Andrew  Lang. 

Parson  Kelly  (1900),  80. 
MATHEW,  Frank,  b.  1865. 

Defender  of  the  Faith  (1899),  48. 

The  Royal  Sisters  (1901),  50. 

One  Queen  Triumphant  (1899),  55. 
MAXWELL,  Sir  Herbert,  b.  1845. 

A  Duke  of  Britain  (1895),  26. 

The  Chevalier  of  the  Splendid  Crest  (1900),  37,  147. 
MAXWELL,  W.  H.,  1792—1850. 

The  Bivouac  (1837),  102,  161. 

Stories  of  Waterloo  (1834),  105. 


204 

MEAKIN,  Nevill  M. 

The  Assassins  (1902),  34. 
MELVILLE,  G.  J.  Whyte,  1821—78. 

Sarchedon  (1871),  19. 

The  Gladiators  (1863),  22. 

The  Queen's  Maries  (1862),  54,  151. 

Holmby  House  (1860),  61,  153. 

Cerise  (1866),  82. 

The  Interpreter  (1858),  HO. 

Katerfelto  (1875),  122. 
MEREDITH,  George,  b.  1828. 

Vittoria  (1867),  109. 

Beauchamp's  Career  (1876),  126. 

The  Tragic  Comedians  (1881),  127. 
MEREJKOWSKI,  Dmitri. 

The  Death  of  the  Gods  (1899),  26. 

The  Forerunner  (The  Romance  of  Leonardo  da  Vinci),  (1900),  45. 
MERIMEE,  Prosper,  1803 — 70. 

A  Chronicle  of  the  Reign  of  Charles  IX.  (1832),  52,  136. 
"MERRiMAN,  H.  Seton"  (Hugh  S.  Scott),  1863—1903. 

Barlasch  of  the  Guard  (1903),  103. 

In  Kedar's  Tents  (1897),  107. 

Flotsam  (1896),  no. 

The  Isle  of  Unrest  (1900),  113. 

The  Velvet  Glove  (1901),  115. 
MERWIN,  S. 

The  Road  to  Frontenac  (1901),  76. 
MEYER,  Annie  N. 

Robert  Annys,  Poor  Priest  (1901),  39. 
MEYER,  Conrad  Ferdinand,  1825—98. 

Der  Heilige  (1880),  34. 

Jiirg  Jenatsch  (1876),  64. 
MILLER,  Thomas,  1807 — 74. 

Royston  Gower  (1838),  35. 
MITCHELL,  S.  Weir,  b.  1830. 

Hugh  Wynne  (1896),  91. 

The  Adventures  of  Fran9ois  Founder  (1898),  95. 
MOORE,  F.  Frankfort,  b.  1855. 

Castle  Omeragh  (1903),  66. 

Nell  Gwynn,  Comedian  (1900),  69. 

The  Jessamy  Bride  (1897),  85. 

The  Fatal  Gift  (1898),  90. 

A  Nest  of  Linnets  (1901),  90. 
MOORE,  Thomas,  1779 — 1852. 

The  Epicurean  (1827),  24. 
MORGAN,  Lady  (»&Owenson),  1780—1859. 

O'Donnel  (1814),  123. 


205 

MORRIS,  Gouverneur. 

Aladdin  O'Brien  (1902),  ill. 
MOTLEY,  J.  L.,  1814 — 77. 

Merry- Mount  (1849),  59. 
MUDDOCK,  J.  E.,  b.  1843. 

Kate  Cameron  of  Brux  (1900),  40. 

In  the  King's  Favour  (1899),  47- 

Sweet  "  Dolt"  of  Haddon  Hall  (1903),  $5. 
"MUHLBACH,  L."  (Klara  M.  Mundt),  1814 — 73. 

Henry  VIII.  and  his  Court  (1851),  48. 

Frederick  the  Great  and  his  Family  (1864),  87. 
MOLOCK,  Dinah  (Mrs.  Craik),  1826 — 87. 

John  Halifax,  Gentleman  (1857),  123. 
MUNRO,  Neil,  b.  1864. 

John  Splendid  (1898),  65. 

The  Shoes  of  Fortune  (1901),  85. 
MUNROE,  Kirk,  b.   1850. 

The  Flamingo  Feather  (1888),  54. 

Longfeather,  the  Peacemaker  (1901),  59. 

At  War  with  Pontiac  (1895),  90. 

With  Crockett  and  Bowie  (1897),  108. 

Through  Swamp  and  Glade  (1896),  108. 
MURRAY,  D.  Christie,  b.  1847,.  and  Henry  Herman. 

One  Traveller  Returns  (1877),  24. 
MURRAY,  E.  C.  Grenville,  1819 — 81. 

The  Member  for  Paris  11871),  113. 
MusiCK,  John  Roy. 

Columbia  (1892),  45. 

N. 

NAPIER,  Sir  Charles,   1782 — 1853. 

William  the  Conqueror  (1858),  32. 
NEALE,  J.  M.,  1818-66. 

Theodora  Phranza  (1857),  42. 
NEWBOLT,  Henry,  b.  1862. 

Taken  from  the  Enemy  (1892),  106,  162. 
NEWMAN,  John  Henry,  1801 — 90. 

Callista  (1856),  24,  135. 
NOELDECHEN,  Wilhelm. 

Baron  and  Squire  (c.  1890),  64. 
NORWAY,  G. 

Duance  Pendray  (1901),  80,  158. 

O. 

O'GRADY,  Standish,  b.  1846. 

Ulrick,  the  Ready  (1896),  56. 

In  the  Wake  of  King  James  (1896),  76. 


206 

ORPKN,  Mrs. 

Corrageen  (1898),  97. 
OSBORNE,  Duffield,  b.  1858. 

The  Lion's  Brood  (1901),  20. 
OTIS,  James  (See  Kaler). 

OXENHAM,  J. 

John  of  Gerisau  (1902),  113. 

Under  the  Iron  Flail  (Flowers  of  the  Dust)  (1902),  114. 
OXLEY,  J.  Macdonald. 

Fife  and  Drum  at  Louisbourg  (1899),  86. 

P 
PAGE,  Thomas  Nelson,  b.  1853. 

Red  Rock  (1898),  113. 

The  Burial  of  the  Guns  (1894),  113. 

Among  the  Camps  (1891)  113. 

Two  Little  Confederates  (1888),  113. 
PALGRAVE,  M.  E. 

Deb  Clavel  (1901),  74,  157. 
PALMER,  F. 

The  Vagabond  (1903),  112. 
PARKER,  Gilbert,  b.  1862. 

The  Trail  of  the  Sword  (1895),  7°"- 

The  Seats  of  the  Mighty  (1896),  87. 

The  Battle  of  the  Strong  (1898),  97. 

When  Vatmond  Came  to  Pontiac  (i8oO,  12?. 
PATER,  Walter,  1839—94. 

Marius  the  Epicurean  (1885),  24,  i«. 
PATERSON,  A.,  b.  1862. 

Cromwell's  Own  (1899),  60. 

The  King's  Agent  (1902),  75. 
PAULDING,  J.  K.,  1779—1860. 

The  Dutchman's  Fireside  (i8-*i),  8<? 
PAULL,  M.  A. 

My  Mistress  the  Queen  (1885),  75,  157 
PEACOCK,  Thomas  Love,  1785—1866. 

Maid  Marian  (1822),  34,  136. 
PEMBERTON,  Max,  b.  1863. 

I  Crown  Thee  King  (1902),  50,  151. 

Signers  of  the  Night  (1899),  57. 

The  Puritan's  Wife  (1896),  69,  155. 

The  Little  Huguenot  (1895),  88- 

The  Garden  of  Swords  (1899),  114. 
PERRY,  Walter  Copland. 

Sancta  Paula  (1902),  26. 
PERCY-GROVES,  J. 

The  Duke's  Own  (1887),  98,  i6r. 
The  War  of  the  Axe  (1888),  108,  162. 


207 

PICKERING,  Edgar. 

A  Stout  English  Bowman  (1898),  36,  146. 

The  Dogs  of  War  (1900),  60,  152. 

Silas  Verney  (1892),  69,  156. 

True  to  the  Watchword  (1902),  75,  157. 

King  for  a  Summer  (1896),  82. 

The  Fortunes  of  Claude  (1901),  84,  159. 

In  Press  Gang  Days  (1894),  97,  160. 
PlCKTHALL,  Marmaduke. 

Sai'd,  the  Fisherman  (1903),  127. 
PIDGIN,  C.  F. 

Blennerhassett  (1901),  99. 
PLANT,  C.  P. 

The  King's  Pistols  (1902),  66. 
POLLARD,  Eliza  F. 

A  Hero  King  (1898),  30. 

For  the  Red  Rose  (1903),  43,  149. 

Robert  Aske  (1888),  48,  150. 

The  Little  Chief  (1901),  59. 

A  Daughter  of  France  (1900),  63. 

The  Last  of  the  Cliffords  (1903),  68,  155. 

The  King's  Signet  (1900),  72. 

My  Lady  Marcia  (1901),  94. 
PORTER,  A.  M.,  1780—1832. 

The  Hungarian  Brothers  (1807),  98. 
PORTER,  Jane,  1776 — 1845. 

The  Scottish  Chiefs  (1810),  37,  147. 

Thaddeus  of  Warsaw  (1803),  107. 
POST,  Waldron  K. 

Smith  Brunt  (1899),  104. 
POTTER,  Margaret  H. 

Uncanonised  (1900),  35. 

The  House  of  De  Mailly  (1901),  88. 

The  Castle  of  Twilight  (1903),  119. 
POYNTER,  Miss  H.  M. 

A  Fair  Jacobite  (1904),  79. 
PRICE,  Eleanor  C. 

Angelot  (1902),  104. 
PRIOR,  James. 

Forest  Folk  (1901),  124. 

Q 

"Q."     (See  Couch,  A.  T.  Quiller-.) 

R 

RAWSON,  Mrs.  Stepney. 

A  Lady  of  the  Regency  (1900),  106. 
Journeyman  Love  (1902),  109. 


208 

RAYNER,  Emma. 

Free  to  Serve  (1900),  82. 
Doris  Kingsley  (1901),  92. 
RKADE,  Charles,  1814—84. 

The  Cloister  and  the  Hearth  (1861),  45.  ISO- 
Peg  Woffington  (1853),  85. 
It  is  Never  too  Late  to  Mend  (1856),  126. 
REED,  Myrtle. 

The  Shadow  of  Victory  (1903),  123. 
REED,  Talbot  Baines,  1852—93. 

Sir  Ludar  (1889),  55,  152. 
Kilgorman  (1895),  97,  161. 
RENDEL,  Hubert. 

Under  Which  King  ?  (1904).  87. 
REUTER,  Fritz,  1810—74. 

In  the  Year  '13  (1860),  104. 
"RHOSCOMYL,  Owen." 

The  Shrouded  Face  (1898),  56. 
Battlement  and  Tower  (1896),  61,  153. 
For  the  White  Rose  of  Arno  (1897),  84,  154. 
RHYS,  Ernest,  b.  1859 

The  Whistling  Maid  (1900),  38. 
RICHARDSON,  S.,  1689 — 1761. 

Clarissa  Harlowe  (1748),  121. 
RICHINGS,  Emily. 

In  Chaucer's  Maytime  (1902),  39. 
RIDDING,  Lady  Laura. 

By  Weeping  Cross  (1899),  41. 
ROBERTON,  Margaret  H. 

A  Gallant  Quaker  (1901),  68. 
ROBERTS,  C.  G.  D.,  b.  1860. 

Barbara  Ladd  (1902),  91. 
The  Forge  in  the  Forest  (1897),  121. 
A  Sister  to  Evangeline  (1898),  I2i. 

ROBERTS,  Margaret  ("  Author  of  Mademoiselle  Mon   ),  b.  1533. 
In  the  Olden  Time  (1882),  47. 
Atelier  du  Lys  (1876),  94- 
On  the  Edge  of  the  Storm  (1869),  94. 
A  Fiddler  of  Lugau  (1887),  101. 
Mademoiselle  Mori  (1860),  109. 
ROBINSON,  Emma  ("Author  of  WMtefnan*). 
Westminster  Abbey  (1859),  48. 
Whitehall  (1844),  60. 
Whitefriars  (1845),  69,  155. 

RODENBERG,  Julius. 

King  "  By  the  Grace  of  God"  (1870),  62. 
ROGERS,  Robert  C. 

Will  o'  the  Wasp  (1896),  104. 


2OQ 
ROSEGGER,  P.,  b.  1843. 

The  God  Seeker  (1883),  119. 
ROULET,  Mary  F.  Nixon. 

God,  the  King,  my  Brother  (1901),  39,  148. 
ROWSELL,  Mary  C. 

Traitor  or  Patriot?  (1885),  70,  156. 
RUFFINI,  G.  D.,  1807—81. 

Dr.  Antonio  (1855),  109. 
RUNKLE,  Bertha. 

The  Helmet  of  Navarre  (1901),  53. 
RUSSELL,  W.  Clark,  b.  1844. 

An  Ocean  Free  Lance  (1881),  103,  161. 
"RUTHERFORD,  Mark"  (W.  Hale  White),  b.  1830. 

The  Revolution  in  Tanner's  Lane  (1887;,  124. 
RVDBERG,  V.,  1828 — 95. 

The  Last  Athenian  (1859),  25. 


SAGE,  William. 

Robert  Tournay  (1900),  95. 

The  Claybornes  (1902),  112. 
"SAGON,  A." 

When  George  III.  was  King  (1899),  100,  161. 
SAINTINE,  X.  B.,  1798—1865. 

Picciola  (1837),  100. 
"  SAMAROW,  G."  (O.  Meding). 

For  Sceptre  and  Crown  (1873 — 4)>  Ir3- 
"  SAND,  George"  (Baronne  Dudevant,  nit  Dupin),  1804—76. 

The  Master  Mosaic  Workers  (1838),  49. 

Consuelo  (1842),  87. 

The  Countess  of  Rudolstadt  (1843),  87. 
SARGENT,  H.  Carton. 

A  Woman  and  a  Creed  (1902),  51. 
SAWYER,  Josephine  C. 

Every  Inch  a  King  (1901),  41,  148. 

SCHEFFEL,  J.  V.,  1826—86. 

Ekkehard  (1857).  31,  135. 
SCHIMMEL,  H.  J.,  b.  1825. 

Mary  Hollis  (1860),  70. 

The  Lifeguardsman  (1888),  74. 
SCOLLARD,  Clinton,  b.  1860. 

A  Man-at-arms  (1898),  40. 

The  Cloistering  of  Ursula  (1902),  119. 
SCOTT,  Florence,  and  Alma  Hodge. 

The  Round  Tower  (1904),  98,  161. 


210 


SCOTT,  Sir  Walter,  1771—1832. 

Count  Robert  of  Paris  (1832),  33,  MS- 

The  Betrothed  (1825),  34,  146. 

The  Talisman  (1825),  34,  135.  H6- 

Ivanhoe  (1819),  34,  i35«  U& 

Castle  Dangerous  (1832),  37. 

The  Fair  Maid  of  Perth  (1828),  4°,  148. 

Quentin  Durward  (1823),  44,  136. 

Anne  of  Geierstein  (1829),  44- 

The  Monastery  (1820),  54. 

The  Abbot  (1820),  54,  136,  151. 

Kenilworth  (1821),  55,  136,  151- 

The  Fortunes  of  Nigel  (1822),  57,  136,  152. 

The  Legend  of  Montrose  (1819),  65,  137,  i 

Woodstock  (1826),  67,  137,  154- 

Peveril  of  the  Peak  (1822),  70. 

Old  Mortality  (1816),  70,  137,  156. 

RobRoy(i8i8),  81,  138,  158- 

Heart  of  Midlothian  (1818),  83,  138,  159. 

Waverley  (1814),  84,  138,  159. 

Redgauntlet  (1824),  89,  138. 

The  Bride  of  Lammermoor  (1819),  120. 

The  Pirate  (1821),  120. 

The  Black  Dwarf  (1816),  120. 

Guy  Mannering  (1815),  122. 

The  Surgeon's  Daughter  (1827),  122. 

The  Antiquary  (1816),  122. 

St.  Ronan's  Well  (1824),  124. 

SEAWEI.L,  M.  E.,  b.  1860. 

Francezka  (1902),  82. 

Gavin  Hamilton  (1898),  87. 

The  Rock  of  the  Lion  (1899),  90,  160. 

Little  Jarvis  (1891),  98. 

The  Fortunes  of  Fin  (1903),  100. 

SEELEY,  Edith. 

Under  Cheddar  Cliffs  (1903),  99,  &*• 
SHAW,  Marie  Adele. 

The  Coast  of  Freedom  (1902),  77. 
SHELLEY,  Mary  (n£e  Godwin),  1797—1851. 

Valperga(i823),  38. 

Perkin  Warbeck  (1830),  44. 
SHIPLEY,  Mary  E. 

Like  a  Rasen  Fiddler  (1900),  48,  ISO- 
SHORTHOUSE,  J.  H.,  1834—1903. 

John  Inglesant  (1881),  62,  137. 
SIENKIEWICZ,  H.,  b.  1846. 

Qu6  Vadis?  (1895),  22. 


211 

SIENKIEWICZ,  H.— continued. 

Knights  of  the  Cross  (1900),  40. 

With  Fire  and  Sword  (1884),  65,  137. 

The  Deluge  (1886),  65. 

Pan  Michael  (1888),  65. 
SIMMS,  W.  G.,  1806—70. 

The  Yemassee  (1835),  82. 

The  Forayers  (1855),  93. 

Eutaw  (1856),  93. 
SIMPSON,  Violet  A. 

The  Bonnet  Conspirators  (1903),  106. 
SIZER,  Kate  T. 

The  Wooing  of  Osyth  (1893),  29. 
SLADEN,  Douglas,  b.  1856. 

Admiral  (1898),  97. 
SMITH,  Albert,  1816— 60. 

The  Marchioness  of  Brinvilliers  (1846),  72. 
SMITH,  Mrs.  Fowler. 

Journal  of  the  Lady  Beatrix  Graham  (1875),  66- 
SMITH,  F.  Hopkinson,  b.  1838. 

The  Fortunes  of  Oliver  Horn  (1902),  127. 
SMITH,  Horace,  1779—1849. 

Brambletye  House  (1826),  68. 
SMOLLETT,  T.,  1721 — 71. 

Roderick  Random  (1748),  83. 

Humphrey  Clinker  (1771),  121. 
SNAITH,  J.  C. 

Patricia  at  the  Inn  (1901),  66. 

Mistress  Dorothy  Marvin  (1895),  75. 
SPENDER,  Harold,  b.  1864. 

At  the  Sign  of  the  Guillotine  (1895),  95- 
STABLES,  Gordon,  b.  1840. 

Westward  with  Columbus  (1894),  45. 
STEEL,  Mrs.  F.  A.,  b.  1847. 

On  the  Face  of  the  Waters  (1896),  no. 
STEPHENS,  R.  N. 

An  Enemy  to  the  King  (1897),  53. 

A  Gentleman  Player  (1899),  57. 

Philip  Winwood  (1900),  92. 
STEVENS,  Sheppard. 

The  Sword  of  Justice  (1899),  54. 

In  the  Eagle's  Talon  (1902),  99. 
STEVENSON,  Burton  Egbert. 

A  Soldier  of  Virginia  (1901),  87. 

The  Heritage  (1903),  92. 
STEVENSON,  R.  L.,  1850 — 94. 

The  Black  Arrow  (1888),  43,  149. 

P — 2 


212 

STEVENSON,  R.  1,.— continued. 

The  Master  of  Ballantrae  (1889),  84,  159. 

Kidnapped  (1886),  85,  138,  160. 

Catriona  (1893),  85.  160. 

St.  Ives  (1897),  106. 

Treasure  Island  (1883),  121. 
STIMSON,  F.  J. 

King  Noanett  (1896),  68. 
STODDARD,  W.  O. 

The  Errand  Boy  of  Andrew  Jackson  (1902),  104. 
STOWE,  Mrs.  H.  Beecher,  1811—96. 

The  Minister's  Wooing  (1859),  122. 

Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  (1852),  126. 
STRAIN,  Mrs.  E.  H. 

A  Man's  Foes  (1895),  75,  157. 
STRATEMEYER,  Edward. 

With  Washington  in  the  West  (1901),  87. 
STRAUSS,  F.,  1808 — 74. 

Helen's  Pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem  (1824),  20. 
SUDERMANN,  Hermann,  b.  1857. 

Regina  (Katzensteg)  (1889),  104. 
SUTTNER,  Baroness  Von,  b.  1843. 

Lay  Down  your  Arms  (1889),  113. 
SUTCLIFFE,  Halliwell,  b.  1870. 

Willowdene  Will  (1901),  83. 

Ricroft  of  Withens  (1898),  84. 

Mistress  Barbara  Cunliffe  (Mistress  Barbara)  (1902),  124. 
SWAN,  Annie  S.  (Mrs.  Burnett  Smith). 

Adam  Hepburn's  Vow  (1885),  67. 


TARKINGTON,  Booth,  b.  1869. 

Monsieur  Beaucaire  (1901),  80. 
TAUTPHCEUS,  Baroness  J.  Von  (nfe  Montgomery),  d.  1893. 

At  Odds  (1863),  102. 
"  TAYLOR,  George  "  (Professor  Hausrath),  b.  1837. 

Antinous  (1880),  23. 

Jetta  (1884),  26. 

Klytia  (1883),  52. 
TAYLOR,  H.  C.  Chatfield. 

The  Crimson  Wing  (1902),  114. 
TAYLOR,  M.  Imlay. 

The  House  of  the  Wizard  (1899),  48. 

On  the  Red  Staircase  (1896),  76. 

The  Rebellion  of  the  Princess  (1903),  j6. 

An  Imperial  Lover  (1899),  79. 


213 

TAYLOR;  Philip  Meadows,  1808—76. 

A  Noble  Queen  (1878),  57. 

Tara  (1863),  68. 

Ralph  Darnell  (1865),  86. 

Tippoo  Sultaun  (1840),  98. 

Seeta  (1873),  no. 
THACKERAY,  W.  M.,  1811—63. 

Esmond  (1852),  78,  138. 

Memoirs  of  Barry  Lyndon  (1844),  85. 

The  Virginians  (1858—59),  88. 

Vanity  Fair  (1848),  106. 

Pendennis  (1849—50)  125. 

The  Newcomes  (1854 — 55),  125. 
THACKERAY,  Miss,  b.  1837. 

Miss  Angel  (1875),  9°>  J6o. 
THIERRY.  Gilbert  Augustin,  b.  1843. 

Le  Capitaine  Sans-Fa<?on  (1882),  104. 
THOMAS,  R.  M. 

Trewern  (1901),  108. 
THOMPSON,  Daniel  P.,  1795 — 1868. 

The  Green  Mountain  Boys  (1839),  91, 
THOMPSON,  Maurice,  b.  1844. 

Alice  of  Old  Vincennes  (1901),  91. 
THORPE,  Francis  N. 

The  Spoils  of  Empire  (1903),  47. 
THRUSTON,  Lucy  M. 

Mistress  Brent  (1901),  59. 

Jack  and  his  Island  (1902),  104. 
TOLSTOY,  Count  A.  K.,  1818—75. 

The  Terrible  Czar  (1863),  54. 
TOLSTOY,  Count  Lyof  N.,  b.  1828. 

War  and  Peace  (1864—69),  103,  138. 

Sevastopol  (1854 — 56),  no. 
TOMLINSON,  Everett  T.,  b.  1859. 

Under  Colonial  Colors  (1902),  92. 

A  Lieutenant  under  Washington  (1903),  92. 

Washington's  Young  Aids  (1897),  92. 

Boy  Soldiers  of  1812  (1895),  IO3- 
TOPELIUS,  Z.,  1818—98. 

The  Surgeon's  Stories  (1856—67)  :— 

The  King's  Ring  (Times  of  Gustav  Adolf),  64, 
Times  of  Charles  XII.,  81. 
TROLLOPE,  Anthony,  1815—82. 

Castle  Richmond  (1860),  125. 

JJarchester  Towers  (1857),  126. 
TROWBRIDGE,  J.  T.,  b.  1827. 

Cudjo's  Cave  (1864),  in. 


2I4 

TROWBRIDGE,  W.  H. 

A  Girl  of  the  Multitude  (Eglee),  (1902),  95. 
TRUE,  John  Preston. 

On  Guard  !  Against  Tory  and  Tarleton  (1903),  93. 
TURNBULL,  Mrs.  L. 

The  Golden  Book  of  Venice  (1900),  54. 
"  TWAIN,  Mark  "  (Samuel  L.  Clemens),  b.  1835. 

Personal  Recollections  of  Joan  of  Arc  (1896),  42. 

The  Prince  and  the  Pauper  (1881),  49,  150. 
TYNAN,  Katharine  (Mrs.  Hinkson),  b.  1861. 

A  King's  Woman  (1902),  97,  160. 
TYSON,  J.  Audrey. 

The  Stirrup  Cup  (1903),  93. 
"  TYTLER,  Sarah"  (Henrietta  Keddie),  b.  1827. 

In  Clarissa's  Day  (1903),  80,  158. 

A  Loyal  Little  Maid  (1899),  81,  159. 

Citoyenne  Jacqueline  (1865),  94. 


UNDERDOWN,  Emily. 

Christina  (1903),  36. 


VACHELL,  H.  A.,  b.  1861. 

John  Charity  (1900),  108. 
VALLINGS,  H. 

By  Dulvercombe  Water  (1902),  75. 
VAN  ZILE,  Edward  S. 

With  Sword  and  Crucifix  (1899),  76. 
VIGNY,  A.  de,  1797—1863. 

Cinq  Mars  (1826),  63,  137. 


W 

WALFORD,  Lucy  B.,  b.  1845. 

The  Black  Familiars  (1903),  55- 
WALLACE,  Lew,  b.  1827. 

Ben  Hur  (1880),  21. 

The  Prince  of  India  (1893),  42. 

The  Fair  God  (1873),  47. 
"  WALLIS,  A.  S.  C."  (Miss  Opzoomer). 

Royal  Favour  (1883),  49. 

In  Troubled  Times  (1879),  51. 


215 

WALLOTH,  Wilhelm. 

The  King's  Treasure  House  (1883),  19. 

Empress  Octavia  (Oktavia),  (1883),  22. 
WARBURTON,  Eliot,  1810 — 52. 

Darien  (1851),  77. 
WARD,  Bryan  W. 

The  Forest  Prince  (1903),  36. 
WARE,  W.,  1797 — 1852. 

Aurelian  (1838),  25. 

The  Last  Days  and  Fall  of  Palmyra  (Zenobia),  (1838),  25. 
WATSON,  H.  B.  Marriott-,  b.  1863. 

Captain  Fortune  (1903 — 4),  60. 

The  Rebel  (1900),  73. 

The  Mohock  (1903),  80. 

The  House  Divided  (1901),  83. 

Captain  Sword  (1903),  102. 

Web  of  the  Spider  (1891),  in. 
WATSON,  W.  L. 

Sir  Sergeant  (1899),  84. 
WESTALL,  W.  1834 — 93. 

With  the  Red  Eagle  (1897),  103. 

A  Red  Bridal  (1899),  103. 
WESTBURY,  Hugh. 

Acte  (1890),  22. 
WEYMAN,  Stanley,  b.  1855. 

The  Story  of  Francis  Cludde  (1891),  50,  151. 

The  House  of  the  Wolf  (1890),  52. 

Count  Hannibal  (1901),  53. 

A  Gentleman  of  France  (1893),  53- 

From  the  Memoirs  of  a  Minister  of  France  (1895).  54. 

The  Long  Night  (1903),  57. 

Under  the  Red  Robe  (1894),  63. 

The  Man  in  Black  (1894),  63. 

My  Lady  Rotha  (1894),  64. 

Flore  (1902)  65. 

Shrewsbury  (1898),  76. 

The  House  on  the  Wall  (1902),  79. 

The  Castle  Inn  (1898),  89. 

The  Red  Cockade  (1895),  94. 
WHARTON,  Edith. 

The  Valley  of  Decision  (1902),  89. 
WHISHAW,  F. 

Harold  the  Norseman  (1897),  32. 

A  Boyar  of  the  Terrible  (1896).  54. 

A  Splendid  Impostor  (1903),  57. 

The  Lion  Cub  (1902),  76. 

Mazeppa  (1902),  77. 


2l6 

WHISHAW,  F '.— continued, 

Boris  the  Bear  Hunter  (1895),  So. 

A  Lost  Army  (1896),  80. 

Near  the  Tsar,  Near  Death  (1903),  80. 

Many  Ways  of  Love  (At  the  Court  of  Catherine)  (1899), 

A  Forbidden  Name  (1901),  89. 
WHISTLER,  C.  W.,  b.  1856. 

Havelok,  The  Dane  (1900),  28. 

A  Thane  of  Wessex  (1896),  29. 

King  Alfred's  Viking  (1899),  30. 

King  Olafs  Kinsman  (1898),  32. 

Wulfric  the  Weapon  Thane  (1897),  32. 

For  King  or  Empress  (1904),  33,  146. 
WILKINS,  Mary  E.,  b.  1862. 

The  Heart's  Highway  (1900),  120. 
WILLIAMS,  Churchill. 

The  Captain  (1903),  1 12. 
WILSON,  William  R.  A. 

A  Rose  of  Normandy  (1903),  77. 
WiNGFlELD,  Lewis,  1842 — 91. 

LadyGrizel(i884),  83. 

My  Lords  of  Strogue  (1879),  99- 
WISEMAN,  Cardinal,  1802 — 65. 

Fabiola  (The  Church  in  the  Catacombs)  (1855),  27. 
WOOD,  Charles. 

On  the  Frontier  with  St.  Clair  (1902),  96. 
WOODS,  Margaret  L.,  b.  1856. 

Esther  Vanhomrigh  (1891),  79. 

Sons  of  the  Sword  (1901),  102. 


Y. 

YEATS,  S.  LEVETT. 

The  Honour  of  Savelli  (1895),  46. 

The  Traitor's  Way  (1902),  51. 

Chevalier  d'Auriac  (1897),  53. 

The  Lord  Protector  (1902),  67,  145. 
YEOMAN,  William  Joseph. 

A  Woman's  Courier  (1896),  76. 
YONGE,  Charlotte  M.,  1823 — 1901. 

The  Little  Duke  (1854),  30. 

The  Prince  and  the  Page  (1866),  36,  147. 

The  Lances  of  Lynwood  (1855),  39,  147. 

The  Caged  Lion  (1870),  41,  148. 

Two  Penniless  Princesses  (1891),  43,  149. 


217 

YONGE,  Charlotte  M.— continued. 

Grisly  Grissell  (1893),  43,  149. 

The  Dove  in  the  Eagle's  Nest  ( 1866),  44. 

The  Armourer's  Prentices  (1884),  47,  150. 

The  Chaplet  of  Pearls  (1868),  53. 

Unknown  to  History  (1882),  55,  151. 

Stray  Pearls  (1883),  63. 

A  Reputed  Changeling  (1889),  73,  157. 

Kenneth  (1850),  103. 


ZANGWILL,  I.,  b.  1864. 

The  Maker  of  Lenses  (1898),  71. 
ZOLA  E.,  1840—1902. 

The  Downfall  (1892),  114. 


INDEX    OF    TITLES 


INDEX   OF   TITLES. 


Abbot  (The),  54,  136,  151. 

About  Catherine  de  Medici,  52. 

Across  the  Salt  Seas,  78,  158. 

Acte,  22. 

Adam  Bede,  123. 

Adam  Hepburn's  Vow,  67. 

Admiral,  97. 

Adventures  of  a  Goldsmith,  100. 

Adventures  of  Captain  Bonneville, 

123. 
Adventures  of  Cyrano  de  Bergerac, 

y». 

Adventures  of  Frangois  Founder,  95. 
Adventures  of  Gerard,  105,  106. 
Adventures  of  Harry  Revel,  102. 
Adventures    of   the   Comte    de  la 

Muette,  95. 

Afloat  with  Nelson,  101,  161. 
After  Worcester,  67,  155. 
Aftermath,  126. 
Age'nor  de  Mauleon,  39. 
Agincourt,  41,  149. 
Agnes  Surriage,  86. 
Ahnen,  (Die),  25. 
Aide-de-Camp,  101. 
Aladdin  O'Brien,  in. 
Alarums  and  Excursions,  80,  102. 
Alfgar,  the  Dane,  32. 
Alice  Lorraine,  102. 
Alice  of  Old  Vincennes,  91. 
Alton  Locke,  125. 
Among  the  Camps,  113. 
Amor  Victor,  23. 
Amyot  Brou^h,  87,  160. 
Ange  Pitou,  93. 
Angel  of  the  Covenant,  66. 
Angelot,  104. 
Annals  of  an  Anglo-Saxon  Family, 

29. 


Annals  of  the  Parish,  121. 

Annee  des  Merveilles,  51. 

Anne  of  Geierstein,  44. 

Anthony  Everton,  60,  153. 

Antinous,  23. 

Antiquary  (The),  122. 

Antonia,  59. 

Antonina,  28. 

Armourer's  Prentices,  47,  150. 

Arthur  Mervyn.  122. 

As  Others  Saw  Him,  22. 

Ascanio,  49. 

Ashes  of  Empire,  1 14. 

Assassins  (The),  34. 

Astoria,   123. 

At  Agincourt,  41,  149. 

At  Odds,  1 02. 

At  the  Court  of  Catherine,  89. 

At  the  Point  of  the  Bayonet,  99,  161. 

At  the  Point  of  the  Sword,  107. 

At  the  Siege  of  Quebec,  92. 

At  the  Sign  of  the  Guillotine,  95. 

At  War  with  Pontiac,  90. 

Atelier  du  Lys,  94. 

Attila,  27. 

Audrey,  121. 

Aurelian,  25. 

B 

Balmoral,  80. 

Banner  of  St.  George,  39,  148. 

Barbara  Blomberg,  49. 

Barbara  Ladd,  91. 

Barbara  Winslow  :  Rebel,  74. 

Barchester  Towers,  126. 

Barlasch  of  the  Guard,  103. 

Barnaby  Lee,  71. 

Barnaby  Rudge,  90,  138,  160. 

Baron  and  Squire,  64. 

Baronet  in  Corduroy,  78. 


222 


Baron's  Sons,  109. 

Bath  Comedy,  85. 

BSton  Sinister,  73. 

Bataglia  di  Benevento,  35. 

Battle  of  the  Strong,  97. 

Battleground  (The),  III. 

Battlement  and  Tower,  61,  153. 

Bayard's  Courier,  112. 

Beatrice  Cenci,  54. 

Beau's  Comedy,  122. 

Beauchamp's  Career,  126. 

Beaufoy  Romances,  42. 

Before  the  Dawn,  112. 

Beggars  (The),  50. 

Beggars  of  the  Sea,  51. 

Begum's  Daughter,  77. 

Beleaguered,  64. 

Btjlsbazzar,  19. 

Ben  Hur,  21. 

Beric  the  Briton,  22. 

Betrothed  (The),  34,  146. 

Betrothed  Lovers,  63,  137. 

Betty  Alden,  58. 

Big  Brother,  104. 

Birthright  (The),  85. 

Bissula,  25. 

Bivouac  (The),  102,  161. 

Black  Arrow,  43,  H9- 

Black  Disc,  45. 

Black  Douglas,  42. 

Black  Dwarf,  120. 

Black  Familiars,  55. 

Black  Prophet,  124. 

Black  Shilling,  77. 

Black  Tor,  58,  152. 

Black  Tulip,  71. 

Black  Wolfs  Breed,  72. 

Blennerhassett,  99. 

Blithedale  Romance,  125. 

Blockade  (The),  105. 

Blue  Banner,  35. 

Blue  Flag,  74. 

Blue  Pavilions,  75,  157. 

Boerenkryg  (De),  96. 

Bonnet  Conspirators,  106. 

Boris  the  Bear  Hunter,  80. 

Both  Sides  of  the  Border,  41,  148. 

Bow  of  Orange  Ribbon,  41. 


Boy  of  the  First  Empire,  100. 
Boy  Soldiers  of  1812,  103. 
Boyar  of  the  Terrible,  54. 
Boyne  Water,  75. 
Boys  of  1745,  86. 
Braes  of  Yarrow,  47. 
Brambletye  House,  68. 
Brave  Resolve,  63. 
Braves  Gens,  1 14. 
Bravest  of  the  Brave,  79,  158. 
Bride  of  Lammermoor,  1 20. 
Bride  of  the  Nile,  28. 
Brigand  (The),  52. 
Brinton  Eliot,  91. 
Builders  of  the  Waste,  27. 
Burgomaster  of  Berlin,  44. 
Burgomaster's  Wife,  51. 
Burial  of  the  Guns,  113. 
Burning  of  Rome,  22. 
Business  in  Great  Waters,  96. 
By  Celia's  Arbour,  127. 
By  Dulvercombe  Water,  75. 
By  England's  Aid,  51. 
By  Order  of  the  Company,  59. 
By  Pike  and  Dyke,  51. 
By  Right  of  Conquest,  47. 
By  Stroke  of  Sword,  55. 
By  the  North  Sea,  75,  157. 
By  Weeping  Cross,  41. 


Cadet  Days,  92. 
Csedwalla,  28. 
Caged  Lion,  41,  148. 
Callias,  20. 
Callista,  24,  135. 
Calvert  of  Strathore,  93. 
Cambria's  Chieftain,  41,  148. 
Camp  of  Refuge,  32,  145. 
Camp  on  the  Severn,  24. 
Cap'n  Nat's  Treasure,  90,  160. 
Capitaine  Sans-Fa9on,  104. 
Capsina,  107. 
Captain  (The),  112. 
Captain  Fortune,  60. 
Captain  Fracasse,  120. 
Captain  Jacobus,  67,  155. 
Captain  of  the  Guard,  42. 


223 


Captain  of  the  Janizaries,  43. 

Captain  of  the  Wight,  44,  150. 

Captain  Sam,  104. 

Captain  Satan,  fi. 

Captain  Singleton,  120. 

Captain  Sword,  102. 

Captive  of  the  Roman  Eagles,  25. 

Cardigan,  91. 

Cardinal  and  His  Conscience,  52. 

Cardinal's  Page,  42. 

Carved  Cartoon,  71. 

Castle  Daly,  125,  162. 

Castle  Dangerous,  37. 

Castle  in  Spain,  102. 

Castle  Inn,  89. 

Castle  of  Ehrenstein,  35. 

Castle  of  the  White  Flag,  114. 

Castle  of  Twilight,  119. 

Castle  Omeragh,  66. 

Castle  Rackrent,  121. 

Castle  Richmond,  125. 

Catriona,  85,  160. 

Cavalier  (The),  112. 

Cavaliers  (The),  61. 

Cerise,  82. 

Challenge  of  Barletta,  46. 

Champion  of  the  Faith,  41,  149. 

Chantrey  Priest  of  Barnet,  43,  149. 

Chaplain  of  the  Fleet,  85,  160. 

Chaplet  of  Pearls,  5  3. 

Charles  O'Malley,  102,  161. 

Cheap  Jack  Zita,  106. 

Cherry  and  Violet,  69,  156. 

Chevalier  d'Auriac,  53. 

Chevalier  d'Harmenthal,  81. 

Chevalier  de  Maison  Rouge,  93. 

Chevalier  of  the  Splendid  Crest,  37, 

147. 

Chien  d'Or,  88. 

Children  of  the  New  Forest,  6 1, 154. 
Choir  Invisible,  122. 
Chouans  (The),  99. 
Christ  and  Anti-Christ,  26. 
Christina,  36. 
Chronicle  of  the  Reign  of  Charles 

IX.,  52,  136. 
Chronicles  of  the  Schonberg  Cotta 

Family,  46. 


Church  in  the  Catacombs,  27. 

Cinq  Mars,  63,  137. 

Citizen  Bonaparte,  94. 

Citoyenne  Jacqueline,  94. 

Clarissa  Harlowe,  121. 

Clash  of  Arms,  72. 

Claybornes  (The),  112. 

Clementina,  8l,  159. 

Cleopatra,  21. 

Clerk  of  Oxford,  36,  147. 

Cloister  and  the  Hearth,  45,  136. 

Cloistering  of  Ursula,  119. 

Coast  of  Freedom,  77. 

Colloquies  of  Edward  Osborne,  50, 

'Si- 

Colonial  Series,  87. 

Colonials  (The),  91. 

Columbia,  45. 

Columbian  Historical  Novels,  45. 

Commune  (La),  114. 

Companions  of  Jehu,  98. 

Comtesse  de  Charny,  93. 

Conquering  and  to  Conquer,  26. 

Conqueror  (The),  98. 

Conscript  (The),  105,  139. 

Constable  of  St.  Nicholas,  45. 

Consuelo,  87. 

Copperhead  (The),  112. 

Cornet  of  Horse,  79,  158. 

Cornet  Strong  of  Ireton's  Horse,  61. 

Coronation,  41. 

Corrageen,  97. 

Count  Hannibal,  53. 

Count  of  the  Saxon  Shore,  27. 

Count  Robert  of  Paris,  33,  145. 

Countess  Alys,  38. 

Countess  of  Rudolstadt,  87. 

Countess  Tekla,  119. 

Country  in  Danger,  94. 

Courtship  of  Morrice  Buckler,  74. 

157- 

Cranford,  125. 
Cregy  and  Poitiers,  38,  148. 
Crichton,  53. 
Crimson  Sign,  75. 
Crimson  Wing,  1 14. 
Crisis  (The),  99,  in. 
Cromwell's  Own,  60. 


224 


Croppies,  Lie  Down,  98. 
Croppy  (The),  98. 
Cross  of  Pearls,  38. 
Crossing  (The),  99. 
Crowborough  Beacon,  103. 
Cudjo's  Cave,  in. 

D 

Dagger  and  the  Cross,  69. 

Dame  de  Monsoreau,  53. 

Daniel  Herrick,  69. 

Darien,  77. 

Dark  o'  the  Moon,  81. 

Darkness  and  Dawn,  22. 

Darnley,  48,  150. 

Daughter  of  France,  63. 

Daughter  of  New  France,  76. 

Dauntless,  66,  154. 

Day  in  the  Wilderness,  112. 

Days  of  Bruce,  37,  147. 

Dayspring  (The),  113. 

Death  of  the  Gods,  26. 

Deb  Gavel,  74,  157. 

Debit  and  Credit,  125. 

Deborah,  20. 

Deborah's  Diary,  70,  155. 

Defender  of  the  Faith,  48. 

Deluge  (The),  65. 

Denis  Dent,  126. 

Denounced,  84. 

Desastre  (Le),  1 14. 

Deserter  and  other  Stories,  43,  112. 

Desiderio,  119. 

Destiny,  123. 

Deutsche  Krieg,  64. 

Devereux,  79. 

Dilemma  (The),  no. 

Disputed  V.C.,  in,  162, 

Dmitri,  57. 

Dr.  Antonio,  109. 

Dr.  Le  Baron  and  His  Daughters,  58. 

Dogs  of  War.  60,  152. 

Dominique's  Vengeance,  54. 

Domitia,  23. 

Dona  Ysabel,  102. 

Doris  Kingsley,  92. 

Dorothy  Forster,  8r,  138,  158. 


Dorothy  South,  127. 

Dorothy  Vernon  of  Haddon  Hall,  55. 

Dove  in  the  Eagle's  Nest,  44. 

Downfall  (The),  114. 

Dragon  and  the  Raven,  30. 

Draytonsand  the  Davenants,  62, 153. 

Dream  Charlotte,  95. 

Dreamers  of  the  Ghetto,  71. 

D'ri  and  I,  104. 

Duance  Pendray,  80,  158. 

Duke  of  Britain,  26. 

Duke  of  Monmouth,  74. 

Duke  of  Stockbridge,  93. 

Duke's  Own,  98,  161. 

Duke's  Page,  49. 

Duke's  Servants,  59. 

Dutchman's  Fireside,  85. 


E 


Early  Dawn,  29. 

Eben  Holden,  127. 

Edwy  the  Fair,  31. 

Eglee,  95. 

Egyptian  Princess,  19,  135. 

Eight  Days,  no. 

Ekkehard,  31,  135. 

El  Ombu,  102. 

Eleve  de  Garrick,  90. 

Emperor  (The),  23. 

Emperor's  Doom,  113. 

Empress  Octavia,  22. 

Enemy  to  the  King,  53. 

Epicurean  (The),  24. 

Episodios  Nacionales,  100,  101. 

Epoque  (Une),  114. 

Eric  the  Archer,  39,  148. 

Erling  the  Bold,  30. 

Errand  Boy  of  Andrew  Jackson,  104. 

Esmond,  78,  138. 

Esther  Vanhomrigh,  79. 

Ethne,  66,  154. 

Eutaw,  93. 

Evelina,  122. 

Every  Inch  a  King,  41,  148. 

Exiled  Scot,  84. 

Exploits  of  Brigadier  Gerard,  105. 


225 


Fabiola,  27. 

Face  to  Face  with  Napoleon,  105, 
162. 

Fair  God,  47. 

Fair  Jacobite,  79- 

Fair  Maid  of  Perth,  40,  148. 

Fairfax,  86. 

Fall  of  Asgard,  32. 

Fall  of  Athens,  20. 

Fallen  Fortunes,  78,  158. 

Fallen  Star,  87. 

Faraon,  19. 

Fatal  Gift,  90. 

Father  Darcy,  58. 

Favor  of  Princes,  88. 

Felicitas,  27. 

Felix  Holt,  124. 

Fiddler  of  Lugau,  101. 

Fiery  Dawn,  107. 

Fife  and  Drum  at  Louisbourg,  86. 

Firebrand  (The),  107. 

First  Fleet  Family,  96. 

Flame  of  Fire,  57. 

Flamingo  Feather,  54. 

Flore,  65. 

Flotsam,  no. 

Flower  o'  the  Corn,  78. 

Flowers  of  the  Dust,  114. 

Foes  of  the  Red  Cockade,  94. 

Follies  of  Captain  Daly,  101. 

Follow  the  Gleam,  62. 

For  Faith  and  Fatherland,  51. 

For  Faith  and  Freedom,  73,  156. 

For  Freedom,  109. 

For  G<xl  and  Gold.  55,  151. 

For  His  People,  65. 

For  King  or  Empress,  33,  146. 

For  Sceptre  and  Crown,  113. 

For  the  Old  Flag,  lio,  162. 

For  the  Red  Rose,  43,  149. 

For  the  Religion,  52. 

For  the  Right,  107. 

For  the  Term  of  his  Natural  Life, 

125. 

For  the  White  Rose,  8l. 
For  the  White  Rose  of  Arno,  84, 
159. 


Forayers  (The),  93. 

Forbidden  Name,  89. 

Forerunner  (The),  45. 

Forest  Days,  36,  147. 

Forest  Folk,  124. 

Forest  Lovers,  119,  139. 

Forest  Outlaws,  34,  146. 

Forest  Prince,  36. 

Forge  in  the  Forest,  121. 

Fortune's  my  Foe,  88. 

Fortunes  of  Claude,  84,  159. 

Fortunes  of  Fifi,  100. 

Fortunes  of  Nigel,  57,  136,  152. 

Fortunes  of  Oliver  Horn,  127. 

Forty-Five  (The),  53. 

Fra  Lippo  Lippi,  42. 

Francezka,  82. 

Frederick  the  Great  and  His  Family, 

87. 

Free  Lance  in  a  Far  Land,  98. 
Free  Soil,  Free  Soul,  86. 
Free  to  Serve,  82. 
Friend  of  Caesar,  21. 
Friend  of  Nelson,  100. 
Friend  Olivia,  68. 
Friend  with  the  Countersign,  112. 
From  Behind  the  Arras,  82. 
From  Kingdom  to  Colony,  91. 
From  the  Memoirs  of  a  Minister  of 

France,  54. 
Frown  of  Majesty,  72. 


Gallant  Grenadier,  no,  162. 

Gallant  Quaker,  68. 

Garden  of  Swords,  1 14. 

Gathering  Clouds,  26. 

Gathering  of  Brother  Hilarius,  39. 

Gavin  Hamilton,  87. 

Gelimer,  27. 

General  George,  100. 

Gentleman  of  France,  53. 

Gentleman  Player,  57. 

Geoffrey  Hamlyn,  126. 

Girl  at  the  Halfway  House,  127. 

Girl  of  the  Multitude,  95. 

Gladiators  (The),  22. 

Gleaming  Dawn,  41. 


226 


God  Save  England,  39. 

God  Save  King  Alfred,  30. 

God  Save  the  King,  68. 

God  Seeker,  119. 

God,   the  King,  my  Brother,   39, 

148. 

God  Wills  It,  33. 
Golden  Arrow,  68. 
Golden  Book  of  Venice,  54. 
Golden  Dog,  88. 
Golden  Fleece,  72. 
Golden  Galleon,  56,  152. 
Gorgo,  20. 

Grandissimes  (The),  123. 
Grantley  Fenton,  105,  162. 
Great  Shadow,  105. 
Great  Treason,  92. 
Green  Book,  107,  139. 
Green  Mountain  Boys,  91. 
Grey  Cloak,  65. 
Grisly  Grissell,  43,  149. 
Guavas  the  Tinner,  56. 
Guerre  des  Paysans,  96. 
Guy  Fawkes,  58,  152. 
Guy  Mannering,  122. 
Gwynnett  of  Thornhaugh,  79. 

H 

Halil  The  Pedlar,  82. 

Hammer  (The),  20. 

Harold,  32,  135,  145. 

Harold  the  Norseman,  32. 

Harry  Ogilvie,  66. 

Hastings  the  Pirate,  30. 

Haunt  of  Ancient  Peace,  62,  153. 

Haus  Eckberg,  64. 

Havelok  the  Dane,  28. 

Head  of  a  Hundred,  59. 

Heart  of  Midlothian,  83,  138,  159. 

Heart's  Highway,  120. 

Heilige  (Der),  34. 

Heir  of  Hascombe  Hall,  46,  150. 

Helmet  of  Navarre,  53. 

Helen's  Pilgrimage  to  J  erusalem,  20. 

Henry  Bourland,  112. 

Henry  VIII.  and  his  Court,  48. 

Henry  Masterton,  65,  154. 


Herald  of  the  West,  104. 

Heralds  of  Empire,  120. 

Hereward  the  Wake,  32,  145. 

Heritage  (The),  92. 

Heritage  of  Langdale,  80,  158. 

Hero  King,  30. 

Hero  of  the  Highlands,  84,  159. 

Heroine  of  the  Strait,  90. 

Hetty  Wesley,  83. 

His  Counterpart,  72. 

His  Grace  of  Osmonde,  1 20. 

His  Grace  o'  the  Gunne,  69. 

His  Heart's  Desire,  63. 

Hohenzollern,  34. 

Holmby  House,  61,  153. 

Homo  Sum,  25. 

Honor  of  Save  Hi,  46. 

Hoosier  Schoolmaster,  125. 

Hope  the  Hermit,  76,  157 

Horse-shoe  Robinson,  93. 

Hosen  des  Hernn  von  Bredow,  46. 

Hour  and  the  Man,  100. 

House  Divided,  83. 

House  of  De  Mailly,  88. 

House  of  the  Wizard,  48. 

House  of  the  Wolf,  52. 

House  on  the  Wall,  79. 

Household  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  47, 

150. 
How  Dickon  came  by  His  Name,  43, 

149. 

How  I  Won  my  Spurs,  36,  147. 
Hugh  Gwyeth,  61,  154. 
Hugh  Wynne,  91. 
Humphrey  Clinker,  121. 
Hungarian  Brothers,  98. 
Hungarian  Nabob,  124. 
Hypatia,  27,  135. 


I  Promessi  Sposi,  137, 

I  Crown  Thee  King,  50,  151. 

I  Lived  as  I  Listed,  68. 

If  I  were  King,  44. 

Imperial  Lover,  79. 

In  Alfred's  Days,  30. 

In  Blue  and  White,  92. 


227 


In  Chaucer's  Maytime,  39. 

In  Clarissa's  Day,  80,  158. 

In  Colston's  Days,  66. 

In  Exitu  Israel.  89. 

In  Fair  Granada,  51. 

In  Freedom's  Cause,  37,  147. 

In  Furthest  Ind,  77. 

In  High  Places,  60. 

In  His  Name,  34. 

In  Jacobite  Days,  74,  157. 

In  Kedar's  Tents,  107. 

In  Kings'  Byways,  65,  79- 

In  Kings'  Houses,  78. 

In  Lincoln  Green,  34,  146. 

In  Old  New  York,  86. 

In  Press-gang  Days,  97,  1 60. 

In  Spite  of  All,  62,  154. 

In  Taunton  Town,  74,  156. 

In  the  Blue  Pike,  46. 

In  the  Day  of  Adversity,  72. 

In  the  Days  of  Chivalry,  38,  148. 

In  the  Days  of  King  James,  58 

In  the  Days  of  Prince  Hal,  41,  148. 

In  the  Days  of  St.  Anselm,  33,  145. 

In  the  Eagle's  Talon,  99. 

In  the  East  Country  with  Sir  Tho- 
mas Browne,  70,  156. 

In  the  Golden  Days,  70,  156. 

In  the  Irish  Brigade,  79. 

In  the  King's  Favor,  47. 

In  the  King's  Service,  66,  154. 

In  the  Olden  Time,  47. 

In  the  Palace  of  the  King,  51. 

In  the  Service  of  Rachel,  Lady 
Russell,  70,  156. 

In  the  Shadow  of  the  Crown,  38. 

In  the  Valley,  91. 

In  the  Wake  of  King  James,  76. 

In  the  War  with  Mexico,  108. 

In  the  Wars  of  the  Roses,  43,  149. 

In  the  Year  of  Waterloo,  105,  162. 

In  the  Year  '13,  104. 

In  Troubled  Times,  51. 

In  Westminster  Choir,  70. 

Inca's  Ransom,  47. 

Inimitable  Mrs.  Massingham,  98. 

In't  Wonderjaer,  51. 

Interpreter  (The),  no. 


Intriguers'  Way,  80. 

Invasion  (The),  29. 

Iron  Brigade,  112. 

Isabella  Orsini,  41. 

Isegrimm,  101. 

Ishmael,  108. 

Island  of  Sorrow,  99. 

Isle  of  Unrest,  113. 

It  is  Never  Too  Late  to  Mend,  126. 

Ivan  de  Biron,  87. 

Ivanhoe,  34,  135,  146. 

lyvinda,  22. 


Jack  and  His  Island,  104. 
Jacobite  (The),  76. 
Jacobite  Exile,  81. 
Jacquerie  (The),  39. 
Jair  the  Apostate,  19. 
Jan  Van  Elselo,  50. 
Janice  Meredith,  92. 
Jardin  du  Roi,  113. 
Jenetha's  Venture,  1 10. 
Tessamy  Bride,  85. 
Jetta,  26. 
Jezebel,  19. 

John  Burnet  of  Barns,  70. 
John  Charity,  1 08. 
John  Halifax,  Gentleman,  123. 
John  Inglesant,  62,  137. 
John  Marmaduke,  66,  154. 
John  Maxwell's  Marriage,  121. 
John  of  Gerisau,  113. 
John  of  Strathbourne,  49. 
fohn  Splendid,  65. 
John  Standish,  39,  148. 
Joscelyn  Cheshire,  92. 
Journal  of  the  Lady   Beatrix  Gra- 
ham, 66. 

Journal  of  the  Plague,  69. 
Journeyman  Love,  109. 
Judith  Shakespeare,  58. 
Jiirg  Jenatsch,  64. 

K 

Kallistratus,  20. 
Kampf  um  Rom,  28. 
Karine,  46. 

Q— 2 


228 


Karl  of  Erbach,  64. 

Karolinerna,  8l. 

Kate  Cameron  of  Brux,  40. 

Katerfelto,  122. 

Kathleen  Clare,  66. 

Kathleen  Mavourneen,  97. 

Katrina,  127. 

Katzensteg,  104. 

Kenilworih,  55,  136,  151. 

Kenneth,  103. 

Kensington  Palace,  75,  157. 

Kent  Squire,  79. 

Kentucky  Cardinal,  126. 

Kidnapped,  85,  138,  160. 

Kilgorman,  97,  161. 

King  Alfred's  Viking,  30. 

King  and  His  Campaigners,  8l. 

King  by  the  Grace  of  God,  62. 

King  for  a  Summer,  82. 

King  Noanett,  68. 

King  Olaf's  Kinsman,  32. 

King  with  Two  Faces,  89. 

King's  Agent,  75. 

King's  Blue  Boys,  87. 

King's  Deputy,  97. 

King's  Henchman,  53. 

King's  Own,  97. 

King's  Pawn,  53. 

King's  Pistols,  66. 

King's  Reeve,  36,  147. 

King's  Ring,  64. 

King's  Signet,  72. 

King's  Sons,  29. 

King's  Treasure  House,  19. 

King's  Woman,  97,  160. 

Kleine  Romane  aus  der  Volkerwan- 

derung,  27. 
Klytia,  52. 

Knight  of  the  Golden  Chain,  33, 146. 
Knights  of  the  Cross,  40. 
Kormak  the  Viking,  30. 


Lady  Grizel,  83. 
Lady  of  Fort  St.  John,  63. 
Lady  of  Quality,  120. 
Lady  of  the  Regency,  106. 
Lady's  Honour,  79. 


L'An  '93,  94. 

Lafitte  of  Louisiana,  103. 

Lally  of  the  Brigade,  77. 

Lancashire  Witches,  58. 

Lances  of  Lynwood,  39,  147. 

Last  Athenian,  25. 

Last  Days  and  Fall  of  Palmyra,  25. 

Last  Days  of  Pompeii,  22,  135. 

Last  of  the  Barons,  43,  136,  149. 

Last  of  the  Cliffords,  68,  155. 

Last  of  the  Mohicans,  88. 

Last  Recruit  of  Clare's,  88. 

Lavengro,  123. 

Lawrence  Clavering,  8l. 

Lay  Down  your  Arms,  113. 

Lazarre,  101. 

Legend  of  Montrose,  65,  137,  154. 

Legend  of  Reading  Abbey,  34,  145. 

Legends  of  the  Province  House,  122. 

Leila,  45. 

Lest  We  Forget,  50. 

Lichtenstein,  46. 

Lieutenant  under  Washington,  92. 

Life  and   Death  of  Richard  Yea- 

and-Nay,  34. 
Life,  Treason,  and  Death  of  James 

Blount,  61, 

Lifeguardsman  (The),  74. 
Like  a  Rasen  Fiddler,  48,  150. 
Like  Another  Helen,  86. 
Lion  Cub,  76. 
Lion  of  Flanders,  37. 
Lion  of  Janina,  107. 
Lion  of  St.  Mark,  40. 
Lion  of  the  North,  64. 
Lion  of  Wessex,  30. 
Lion's  Brood,  20. 
Lion's  Whelp,  67,  155. 
Lionel  Lincoln,  91. 
Little  Captive  Lad,  67,  155. 
Little  Chief,  59. 
Little  Duke,  30. 
Little  Huguenot,  88. 
Little  Jarvis,  98. 
Little  Novels  of  Italy,  119. 
Little  Saint  of  God,  95. 
Little  Shepherd  of  Kingdom  Come, 


Lochinvar,  75. 

London  Pride,  68. 

Long  Night,  57. 

Long  Will,  39. 

Longfeather,  the  Peacemaker,  59. 

Lord  of  Dyneover.  37,  147. 

Lord  of  the  Dark-Red  Star,  35. 

Lord  of  the  Soil,  119. 

Lord  Protector,  67,  155. 

Lords  of  Strogue,  99. 

Lords  of  the  North,  124. 

Lords  of  the  World,  20. 

Lorna  Doone,  73,  138,  156. 

Lorraine,  113. 

Lost  Army,  80. 

Lost  Lady  of  Old  Years,  84. 

Lost  Treasure  of  Trevlyn,  58,  152. 

Love  and  Honour,  101. 

Love  like  a  Gipsy,  92. 

Love  thrives  in  War,  103. 

Lover  Fugitives,  73,  157. 

Loyal  Little  Maid,  81,  159. 

Lysbeth,  50. 

M 

MacMahon,  (The),  76. 
Madame  Th^rese,  94. 
Mademoiselle  Mathilde,  94. 
Mademoiselle  Mori,  109. 
Maelcho,  56. 
Maid  at  Arms,  91. 
Maid  Marian,  34,  136. 
Maid  of  Florence,  46,  136. 
Maid  of  London  Bridge,  49,  151. 
Maid  of  Maiden  Lane,  96. 
Maid  of  Sker,  122. 
Maid,  Wife,  or  Widow?  113. 
Maiden  and  Married  Life  of  Mary 

Powell,  62,  70,  137,  153. 
Maids  of  Paradise,  1 14. 
Maker  of  Lenses,  71. 
Making  of  Christopher  Ferrhigham, 

67. 

Mamzelle  Fifine.  89. 
Man-at-Arms,  40. 
Man  in  Black,  63. 
Man  of  his  Age,  52. 
Man's  Fear,  119. 


Man's  Foes,  75,  157. 
Manasseh,  109. 
Manchester  Man,  106. 
Many  Ways  of  Love,  89. 
March  on  London,  40,  148. 
Marchioness  of  Brinvilliers,  72. 
Marco  Visconti,  38. 
Margaret,  123. 
Margherita  Pusterla,  38. 
Margot  the  Court  Shoemaker,  72. 
Marguerite  de  Roberval,  49. 
Marguerite  de  Valois,  52. 
Marie  de  Mancini,  65. 
Marietta,  44. 

Marius  the  Epicurean,  24,  135. 
Mary  Barton,  126,  162. 
Mary  Hamilton,  55. 
Mary  Hollis,  70. 
Mary  of  Burgundy,  44. 
Mary  of  Lorraine,  47,  151. 
Master  Beggars,  50. 
Master  Mosaic  Workers,  49. 
Master  of  Ballantrae,  84,  159. 
Master  of  Gray,  55. 
Master  of  the  Musicians,  85,  159. 
Master  of  Warlock,  127. 
Master  Skylark,  56,  152. 
Masters  of  the  World,  23. 
Mazeppa,  77. 
Member  for  Paris,  113. 
Memoirs  of  a  Cavalier,  62. 
Memoirs  of  a  Physician,  88. 
Memoirs  of  Barry  Lyndon,  85. 
Men  of  the  Moss  Hags,  70. 
Merry-Mount,  59. 
Mervyn  Clitheroe,  124. 
Micah  Clarke,  73,  156. 
Middlemarch,  124. 
Midst  the  Wild  Carpathians,  71. 
Mills  of  God,  96. 
Minister's  Wooing,  122. 
Miriam  Cromwell,  61,  153. 
Mischief  of  a  Glove,  50. 
Miserables  (Les),  106. 
Miser's  Daughter,  83. 
Mis'ess  Joy,  106. 
Miss  Angei,  90,  160. 
Mississippi  Bubble,  82. 


230 


Mistress  Barbara,  124. 

Mistress  Barbara  Cunliffe,  124. 

Mistress  Brent,  59. 

Mistress  Dorothy  Marvin,  75. 

Mistress    Nancy   Molesworth,   84, 

159- 

Mistress  Spitfire,  60. 
Mito  Yashiki,  109. 
Mohawks,  82. 
Mohock  (The),  80. 
Monastery  (The),  54. 
Monk  of  Fife,  42. 
Mononia,  108. 
Monsieur  Beaucaire,  80. 
Monsieur  Martin,  Si. 
Montezuma's  Daughter,  47. 
Moonfleet,  85. 

Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse,  120, 121. 
Most  Famous  Loba,  35. 
MS.  in  a  Red  Box,  60. 
Mutineer  (The),  96. 
My  Friend  Anne,  48,  150. 
My  Lady  Joanna,  37,  147. 
My  Lady  Marcia,  94. 
My  Lady  of  Orange,  51. 
My  Lady  of  the  Bass,  75. 
My  Lady  Rotha,  64. 
My  Lord  Winchenden,  68. 
My  Mistress  the  Queen,  75,  157. 

N 

Nameless  Castle,  101. 
Nameless  Nobleman,  58. 
Narcissus,  23. 
Neaera,  21. 

Near  the  Tsar,  Near  Death,  80. 
'Neath  the  Hoof  of  the  Tartar,  36. 
Ned  Leger,  83,  159. 
Nell  Gwynn,  Comedian,  69. 
Nero,  22. 
Nessa,  67. 
Nest  of  Linnets,  90. 
New  Canterbury  Tales,  38. 
Newcomes  (The),  125. 
Niccol6  de'  Lapi,  46,  136. 
Noble  Purpose  Nobly  Won,  42. 
Noble  Queen,  57. 
Noemi,  42. 


Not  for  Crown  or  Sceptre,  46. 
Notre  Dame,  45,  136. 


Ocean  Free  Lance,  103,  161. 

O'Donnel,  123. 

Oktavia,  22. 

Olaf  the  Glorious,  31. 

Old  Blackfriars,  61,  152. 

Old  Chelsea  Bun  House,  78,  158. 

Old  Dominion,  73- 

Old  London  Nosegay,  60,  153. 

Old  Margaret,  40. 

Old  Mortality,  70,  137,  156. 

Old  St.  Paul's,  69,  155. 

Oldfield,  126. 

Olympe  de  Cleves,  88. 

On  Both  Sides  of  the  Sea,  62,  155. 

On  Guard  !  Against  Tory  and  Tar- 

leton,  93. 

On  the  Edge  of  the  Storm,  94. 
On  the  Face  of  the  Waters,  1 10. 
On  the  Frontier  with  St.  Glair,  96. 
On  the  Red  Staircase,  76. 
One  of  the  28th,  105,  162. 
One  Queen  Triumphant,  55. 
One  Traveller  Returns,  24. 
Onesimus,  22. 
Orange  Girl  (The),  90. 
Otterbourne,  40. 
Our  Forefathers,  25,  29. 
Our  Lady  of  Darkness,  95. 
Out  with  Garibaldi,  109. 
Outlaw  (The),  74. 
Outlaws  of  the  Marches,  56. 
Outside  and  Overseas,  86. 
Over  the  Border,  60. 
Ovingdean  Grange,  67. 


Pabo  the  Priest,  33,  145. 
Page  of  the  Duke  of  Savoy,  52. 
Palace  of  Spies,  103. 
Pan  Michael,  65. 
Parisians  (The).  114. 
Parson  Kelly,  80. 
Parson's  Daughter,  96,  160. 
Passe  Rose,  29. 


231 


Patricia  at  the  Inn,  66. 

Pearl  Maiden,  22. 

Peg  Woffington,  85. 

Pendennis.  125. 

Penruddock  of  the  White  Lambs,  67. 

Penshurst  Castle,  56,  152. 

Per  Aspera,  24. 

Peril  of  the  Sword,  IIO. 

Perkin  Warbeck,  44. 

Perlycross,  125. 

Perpetua,  24. 

Personal  Recollections  of  Joan  of 

Arc,  42. 

Peveril  of  the  Peak,  70. 
Pharaoh  and  the  Priest,  19. 
Philip  Augustus,  35,  146. 
Philip  Nolan's  Friends,  99. 
Philip  Rollo,  64. 
Philip  Win  wood,  92. 
Philochristus,  21,  135. 
Picciola,  100. 
Pikemen  (The),  98. 
Pilot  (The),  91. 
Pirate  (The),  120. 
Plebiscite  (The),  113. 
Plowshare  and  the  Sword,  63. 
Poor  Sons  of  a  Day,  84. 
Pretty  Michal,  65. 
Pride  and  Prejudice,  123. 
Pride  of  Jennico,  89. 
Prince  and  the  Page,  36,  147. 
Prince  and  the  Pauper,  49,  1 50. 
Prince  of  Good  Fellows,  47. 
Prince  of  India,  42. 
Princesse  de  Cleves,  71* 
Prisoners  of  Hope,  73. 
Prusias,  21. 
Puritan's  Wife,  69,  155. 


Queen  can  do  no  wrong,  106. 
Queen  of  Nine  Days,  50,  151. 
Queen's  Maries,  54>  I5I> 
Queen's  Necklace,  89. 
Queen's  Quair,  54. 
Queen's  Serf,  79. 
Quentin  Durward,  44,  136. 


Quintus  Claudius,  23. 
Qu6  Vadis,  22. 

R 

Rafael,  101. 

Raiders  (The),  8l. 

Ralph  Darnell,  86. 

Ralph  Wynward,  56,  IJ2. 

Ravenshoe,  109,  162. 

Rebel  (The),  73- 

Rebellion  of  the  Princess,  76. 

Rebels  (The),  97. 

Red  Axe,  64. 

Red  Badge  of  Courage,  III. 

Red  Bridal,  103. 

Red  Cockade,  94. 

Red  Republic,  114. 

Red  Rock,  113. 

Red  Rose  and  White,  43,  150. 

Red  Shirts,  95. 

Redgauntlet,  89,  138. 

Reds  of  the  Midi,  94. 

Refugees  (The),  72. 

Regent's  Daughter,  82. 

Regina,  104. 

Reputed  Changeling,  73,  157. 

Resurrection  of  the  Gods.  45. 

Revolution  in  Tanner's  Lane,  124. 

Rhymer  (The),  96. 

Richard  Carvel,  91,  99. 

Richelieu,  63. 

Ricroft  of  Withens,  84. 

Rienzi,  38. 

Ringan  Gilhaize,  74. 

Rival  Heirs,  32,  145. 

Road  to  Frontenac,  76. 

Rob  Roy,  8l,  138,  158. 

Robber  Baron  of  Bedford  Castle,  36, 

146. 

Robert  Annys,  Poor  Priest,  39. 
Robert  Aske,  48,  150. 
Robert  Tournay,  95. 
Rock  of  the  Lion,  90,  160. 
Roderick  Random,  83. 
Rodney  Stone,  99. 
Roger  Malvin's  Burial,  121. 
Romance  of  Dijon,  95. 


232 


Romance  of  Dollard,  68. 
Romance  of  Gilbert  Holmes,  108. 
Romance  of  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  45. 
Romance  of  the  First  Consul,  loo. 
Romance  of  the  Lady  Arbell,  58. 
Romance  of  the  Tuileries,  109. 
Romance  of  War,  102,  161. 
Romola,  44,  136. 
Ropes  of  Sand,  96. 
Rory  O'More,  97. 
Rose  of  Normandy,  77. 
Rosslyn's  Raid,  56. 
Round  Tower,  98,  161. 
Round  Anvil  Rock,  123. 
Royal  Favour,  49, 
Royal  Georgie,  107. 
Royal  Sisters,  50. 
Royston  Govver,  35. 
Rufus,  or  the  Red  King,  33. 
RuheistdieErste  Biirgerpflicht,  101. 
Runnymedeand  LincolnFair,35,l46. 
Rupert  by  the  Grace  of  God,  63. 


Said,  the  Fisherman,  127. 

St.  Clair  of  the  Isles,  42. 

St  George  and  St.  Michael,  61. 

St.  George  for  England.  38,  148. 

St.  Ives,  106. 

St.  James's,  78. 

St.  Katharine's  by  the  Tower,  95, 

St.  Leon,  49. 

St.  Ronan's  Well,  124. 

Saint  of  the  Dragon's  Dale,  37. 

Salammbd,  20,  135. 

Salathiel,  21. 

Sancta  Paula,  26. 

Saragossa,  101. 

Sarchedon,  19. 

Scarlet  Banner,  27. 

Scarlet  Letter,  120,  139. 

Scholar  of  Lindisfarne,  28. 

Scottish  Cavalier,  74,  157. 

Scottish  Chiefs,  37,  147. 

Scourge  of  God,  78. 

Seats  of  the  Mighty,  87. 

Seeta,  no. 

^Seething  Days,  49,  151. 


Serapis,  26. 

Serf  (The),  33. 

Servants  of  Sin,  82. 

Sevastopol,  no. 

Shadow  of  a  Crime,  68. 

Shadow  of  the  Sword,  105. 

Shadow  of  Victory,  123. 

Shaven  Crown,  28. 

She  who  hesitates,  So. 

She- Wolves  of  Machecoul,  107. 

Sheepstealers  (The),  125. 

Shirley,  123. 

Shoes  of  Fortune,  85. 

Shrewsbury,  76. 

Shrouded  Face,  56. 

Shut  in,  51. 

Siege  of  Lady  Resolute,  78. 

Siege  of  Norwich  Castle,  33,  145. 

Siege  of  York,  60,  154. 

Signal  Boys,  104. 

Signers  of  the  Night,  57- 

Silas  Verney,  69,  156. 

Silk  and  Steel,  62. 

Silver  Cross,  65. 

Simon  Dale,  69. 

Singer  of  Marly,  77. 

Sins  of  a  Saint,  31. 

Sir  Christopher,  59. 

Sir  Ludar,  55,  152. 

Sir  Mortimer,  55. 

Sir  Ralph  Esher,  69. 

Sir  Sergeant,  84. 

Sister  to  Evangeline,  121. 

Sisters  (The),  20. 

Sketches  of  Christian  Life,  29. 

Slaves  of  the  Padishah,  71. 

Smith  Brunt,  104. 

Soldier  of  Manhattan,  88. 

Soldier  of  Virginia,  87. 

Soldier  Rigdale,  59. 

Son  of  ^Ella,  28. 

Son  of  the  Revolution,  99. 

Song  of  a  Single  Note,  93. 

Sons  of  Adversity,  55. 

Sons  of  the  Sword,  102. 

Southerners  (The),  in. 

Spanish  Brothers,  51. 

Spanish  John,  84. 


233 


Spectre  of  Power,  90. 

Spinoza,  71. 

Splendid  Impostor,  57. 

Splendid  Spur,  60,  153. 

Spoils  of  Empire,  47. 

Springhaven,  100. 

Spurs  and  Bride,  35,  146. 

Spy  (The),  91. 

Squatter's  Dream,  126. 

Standard  Bearer,  74. 

Standish  of  Standish,  58. 

Stanhope,  61,  153. 

Star  Chamber,  58. 

States  General,  94. 

Stirrup  Cup,  93. 

Stories  of  American  History,  86. 

Stories  of  Waterloo,  105. 

Storm-rent  Sky,  95. 

Story  of  a  Peasant,  94. 

Story  of  a  Scout,  102,  161. 

Story  of  Francis  Cludde,  50,  151. 

Story  of  Old  Fort  Loudon,  88. 

Story  of  the  Plebiscite,  113. 

Story  of  Tonty,  77. 

Stout  English  Bowman,  36,  146. 

Stray  Pearls,  63. 

Strong  Arm,  119. 

Struggle  for  Rome,  28. 

Sun  of  Saratoga,  92. 

Sunningwell,  126. 

Surgeon's  Daughter,  122. 

Surgeon's  Stories,  64.  , 

Swallow,  108. 

Swallow  Barn,  122. 

Sweet  "Doll"  of  Haddon  Hall,  55. 

Sword  and  Assegai,  108. 

Sword  of  Justice,  54, 

Sword  of  the  King,  74. 

Sybil,  125. 


Taken  from  the  Enemy,  106,  162. 

Tale  of  Two  Cities,  94,  138,  160. 

Talisman  (The),  34,  135,  146. 

Tara,  68. 

Taras  Bulba,  120. 

Tarry  Thou  till  I  Come,  21. 


Tekla,  119. 

Terrible  Czar,  54. 

Terror  (The),  94. 

Thaddeus  of  Warsaw,  107. 

Thane  of  Wessex,  29. 

Theodora  Phranza,  42. 

Theophano,  31. 

Thirsty  Sword,  36. 

Thorstein  of  the  Mere,  31. 

Thrall  of  Leif  the  Lucky,  31. 

Three  Musketeers,  62,  137. 

Through  Russian  Snows,  103. 

Through  Swamp  and  Glade,  108. 

Thyra  Varrick,  83,  159. 

Time  and  Chance,  in. 

Times  of  Charles  XII,  8l. 

Times  of  Gustav  Adolf,  64. 

Tippoo  Sultaun,  98. 

To  Arms,  8l,  159. 

To  Have  and  to  Hold,  59. 

To  Herat  and  Cabul,  108,  162. 

To  Right  the  Wrong,  62,  154. 

To  the  Lions,  23. 

Tom  Burke  of  "  Ours,"  101,  161. 

Tom  Jones,  121. 

Tom  Tufton's  Toll,  78,  158. 

Tom  Tufton's  Travels,  78,  158. 

Tonford  Manor,  48. 

Tom  from  the  Foundations,  87. 

Tory  Lover,  93. 

Tower  of  London,  50,  151. 

Tower  or  Throne,  55. 

Trafalgar,  100. 

Tragic  Comedians,  127. 

Trail  of  the  Grand  Seigneur,  99. 

Trail  of  the  Sword,  76. 

Traitor  or  Patriot,  70,  156. 

Traitor's  Way,  51. 

Traits    and    Stories    of    the    Irish 

Peasantry,  123. 
Treasure  Island,  121. 
Treasure  of  Don  Andres,  56. 
Treasure  Trove,  83. 
Trewern,  108. 

Triumph  of  Count  Ostermann,  80. 
TronQons  du  Glaive,  114. 
True  Heart,  46. 
True  to  the  Watchword,  75,  157. 


234 


Turbulent  Town,  40. 

Turkish  Automaton,  89. 

Twenty  Years  After,  62,  65,  137. 

Two  Chiefs  of  Dunboy,  97. 

Two  Dianas.  52. 

Two  Little  Confederates,  113. 

Two  Penniless  Princesses,  43,  149. 

Two  Queens,  89. 

Two  Thousand  Years  Ago,  21. 

Tychiades,  20. 

U 

Uarda,  19. 

Ulrick  the  Ready,  56. 
Uncanonized,  35. 
Uncle  Bernac,  100. 
Uncle  Tom's  Cabin,  126. 
Uncrowning  a  King,  72. 
Under  Bayard's  Banner,  48. 
Under  Calvin's  Spell,  52. 
Under  Cheddar  Cliffs,  99,  161. 
Under  Colonial  Colors,  92. 
Under  Salisbury  Spire,  59,  153. 
Under  the  Black  Raven,  30. 
Under  the  Dome  of  St.  Paul's,  79, 

158. 

Under  the  Iron  Flail,  1 14. 
Under  the  Mendips,  107,  162. 
Under  the  Red  Robe,  63. 
Under  the  Rose,  49. 
Under  the  Southern  Cross,  54. 
Under  the  Spell  of  the  Fleur  de 

Lis,  53. 
Under  Wellington  s  Command,  102, 

161. 

Under  Which  King,  87. 
Unknown  to  History,  55,  151. 
Up  for  the  Green,  98. 
Urith,  74. 
Uther  and  Igraine,  119. 


Vagabond  (The),  112. 
Vale  of  Cedars,  45. 
Valentin,  114. 
Valentino,  46. 
Valerius,  23. 


Valperga,  38. 

Valley  of  Decision,  89. 

Vanity  Fair,  106. 

Velvet  Glove,  115. 

Vengeance  is  Mine,  105. 

Veva,  96. 

Via  Crucis,  34. 

Vicar  of  Wakefield,  121. 

Vicomte  de  Bragelonne,  71,  137. 

Vikings  of  the  Baltic,  31. 

Villa  of  Claudius,  26. 

Vintage  (The),  107. 

Virgin  of  the  Sun,  47. 

Virginia  Comedians,  90. 

Virginians  (The),  88. 

Vittoria,  109. 

Vive  1'Empereur,  108. 

Vivian  of  Virginia,  73. 

Voice  of  the  People,  127. 

Von  Gottes  Gnaden,  62. 

Vor  dem  Sturm,  104. 

W 

Wager  (The),  76. 

Waldemar,  35. 

Wanderer  and  King,  66,  155. 

War  and  Peace,  103,  138. 

War  of  1812  Series,  103. 

War  of  the  Axe,  1 08,  162. 

War  to  the  Knife,  in. 

Ward  of  King  Canute,  32. 

Washington's  Young  Aids,  92. 

Washingtonians  (The),  III. 

Waterloo,  105,  139. 

Waverley,  84,  138,  159. 

Web  of  the  Spider,  111. 

Westcotes  (The),  103. 

Westminster  Abbey,  48. 

Westward  Ho  !  56,  136,  152. 

Westward  with  Columbus,  45. 

"When  Charles  I.  was  King,  6r,  154. 

When  George  III.  was  King,  100, 

161. 
When  Knighthood  was  in  Flower, 

48. 

When  Spurs  were  Gold,  41,  149. 
When  the  Land  was  Young,  73. 


235 


When  Valmond  came  to  Pontiac, 

125. 
Where  Avon  into  Severn  Flows,  43, 

149. 

Where  Honour  Leads,  83. 
Whistling  Maid,  38. 
White  Aprons,  73. 
White  Company,  39,  147. 
White  King's  Daughter,  66,  155. 
White  Terror,  94. 
White  Queen,  48. 
White  Wyvill  and  Red  Ruthven,  43, 

149. 

Whiteboy  (The),  124. 
Whitefriars,  69,  155. 
Whitehall,  60. 
Whites  and  the  Blues,  96. 
Who  Goes  There?  112. 
Wild  Humphry  Kynaston,  44. 
Will  o'  the  Wasp,  104. 
William  the  Conqueror,  32. 
Willowdene  Will,  83. 
Winchester  Meads,  70,  156. 
Window  in  Paris,  115. 
Windsor  Castle,  48,  150. 
Winifrede's  Journal,  59,  153. 
With  Clive  in  India,  86,  160. 
With  Crockett  and  Bowie,  108. 
With  Essex  in  Ireland,  56. 
With  Fire  and  Sword,  65,  137. 
With  Frederick  the  Great,  87. 
With  Lee  in  Virginia,  112. 


With  Moore  at  Corunna,  102,  161. 

With  Sword  and  Crucifix,  76. 

With  the  King  at  Oxford,  60,  153. 

With  the  Red  Eagle,  103. 

With  Washington  in  the  West,  87. 

Wizard  King,  71. 

Woe  to  the  Conquered,  21. 

Wolfs  Head,  35,  146. 

Woman  and  a  Creed,  51. 

Woman's  Courier,  76. 

Won  by  the  Sword,  64. 

Woodman  (The),  44,  150. 

Woodstock,  67,  137,  154. 

Wooing  of  Judith,  67. 

Wooing  of  Osyth,  29. 

World  Went  Very  Well  Then,  83. 

Wulf  the  Saxon,  32,  145. 

Wulfric  the  Weapon  Thane,  32. 


Year  One  of  the  Republic,  94. 
Yellow  Frigate,  44,  150. 
Yemassee  (The),  82. 
Yeoman  Fleetwood,  106. 
Young  Goodman  Brown,  120. 
Young  Macedonian,  20. 
Young  Pioneers,  76. 
Young  Queen  of  Hearts,  58,  152. 


Zenobia,  25. 


SUPPLEMENT  (4™  EDITION). 


SUPPLEMENT. 


"  Those  who  know  very  little  of  the  past  and  care  very  little  for 
the  future,  will  make  but  a  sorry  business  of  the  present.  .  .  .  The 
great  Duke  of  Marlborough  said  that  he  had  learnt  all  the  history 
he  ever  knew  out  of  Shakespeare's  historical  plays.  I  have  long 
thought  that  if  we  persuaded  those  classes  who  have  to  fight  their 
own  little  battles  of  Blenheim  for  bread  every  day,  to  make  such  a 
beginning  of  history  as  is  furnished  by  Shakespeare's  plays  and 
Scott's  novels,  we  should  have  done  more  to  imbue  them  with  a  real 
interest  in  the  past  of  mankind  than  if  we  had  taken  them  through 
a  course  of  Hume  and  Smollett,  or  Hallam  on  the  English  Consti- 
tution, or  even  the  dazzling  Macaulay." 

Lord  M or  ley  on  "  The  Great  Commonplaces  of  Reading? 


SUPPLEMENT. 


NOTE. — As  previously,  books  of  special  worth  are  marked  with  an  asterisk.  Even 
less  than  before  am  I  disposed  to  insert  prices  ;  nowadays  these  fluctuate  con- 
tinually. The  method  now  adopted  of  putting  Juv.  against  works  which  are 
distinctly  Juvenile,  obviates  the  necessity  for  a  separate  list  of  tales  suitable  for 
young  folk  ;  it  need  hardly  be  said,  however,  that  no  arbitrary  division  can  be 
made  between  romances  that  are  for  grown-up  people  and  those  which  are  for 
more  youthful  readers.  Certain  well-known  writers  for  the  young  are  quite 
worthy  of  study  by  parent  and  child  alike,  while  many  of  the  best  historical 
novels  may  be  read  profitably  by  intelligent  boys  and  girls  entering  on  the  "  teen" 
stage.  While  out-of-print  books  have  been  avoided,  a  few  that  are  more  or  less 
easily  obtainable  second-hand,  have  been  included  ;  juvenile  tales  are  frequently 
revived. 


PRE-CHRISTIAN   ERA. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


SEMIRAMIS 


THE    CAT    OF    Bu- 
BASTES.    Juv. 


THE  WITCH  QUEEN 
OF  KHEM 


THE  MIGHTIEST 
POWER 

*KING  AND  CAPTIVE 


Edward  Peple 

(Greening,  Eng.  ;  and 
Moffat,  Yard  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,  Eng. ;  and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Ena  Fitzgerald 
(Greening) 


George  Ryven 
(Griffiths) 

"  A  Whisper  " 
(Blackwood) 


Ancient  Assyria  (Ninus  and 
Semiramis). 


Egypt  in  the  time  of  Thot- 
mes  III.  (Israelites — 
Moses  "  40  years  before 
the  Exodus  "). 

Egypt:  Thebes  at  its  highest 
point  as  Capital  of  the 
Pharaohs,  about  B.C.  1500. 

Egypt  about  B.C.  1400. 


Egypt    (Thebes),  B.C.    1342. 
King  Seti  Merenptah. 


240 


SUPPLEMENT. 
PRE-CHRISTIAN  ERA— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


aTHE  YOKE 


A  CAPTAIN  OF  MEN 


DAVID  THE  CAPTAIN 


JEZEBEL'S  HUSBAND 
(AZALIM) 


LEMUEL  OF  THE  LEFT 
HAND 

FOR  AN  ATONEMENT 


&THE  ASSYRIAN 
BRIDE 


THE  KING'S  DAUGH- 
TERS. Juv. 


JUDITH  TRIUMPHANT 


A  SON  OF  ASHUR 


Elizabeth  Miller 

(Stevens,    Eng.  ;     and 
Bobbs-Merrill,U.S.A.) 

E.  Anson  More 

(Alston    Rivers,    Eng ; 
and  Page,  U.S.A.) 

A.  S.  Way 

(Macmillan) 

Mark  Ashton 

(E.  Nash,   Eng. ;    and 
L.  C.  Page,  U.S.A.) 


Alfred  Clark 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 

Frances  H.  Wood 
(F.  Griffiths) 

W.  Patrick  Kelly 

(Routledge,  Eng.  ;   and 
Dutton,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  Bramston 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.  A .) 


Thompson  Buchanan 
(Harper  &  Bros.) 

Capt.    Willoughby    Bed- 
does 
(Sonnenschein) 


Egypt  and  the  Jewish  Exo- 
dus, about  B.C.  1300. 


Tyre  and  its  merchants  in 
B.C.  1058  ;  "  David,  son  of 
Jesse,"  &c. 

The  Bible  story  of  Saul  and 
David. 

Damascus,  Jerusalem,  &c., 
in  the  time  of  Jezebel 
(Elijah,  Ahab,  and  Oba- 
diah). 

Days  of  Ahab,  Jezebel,  and 
Elijah. 

Palestine  (Ramoth  Gilead, 
&c.)  some  years  after  Jehu. 

Assyria,  B.C.  750. 


The  children  of  King  Zede- 
kiah,  about  B.C.  580  (time 
of  Jeremiah  and  the  Cap- 
tivity). 

Judith  and  Holofernes. 


Babylon,  Persia,  and  Egypt 
in  the  time  of  Nebuchad- 


a  The  Exodus  is  generally  assumed  to  have  taken  place  about  B.C.  1300  (Meneptah) ;  but  some 
authors  (vide  Mr.  Henty  above)  adopt  another  chronology.  I  may  allude  here  to  one  other  story  of 
the  Exodus  period,  viz.  "  The  Secret  of  the  Sphinx,"  by  James  Smith  and  John  Wren  Sutton  (Welby, 
Eng.),  somewhat  conventional. 

ft  The  same  author  is  responsible  for  a  tale  of  Egypt  in  the  days  of  the  Biblical  Joseph,  "  The 
Stonecutter  of  Memphis"  (Routledge,  Eng. ;  and  Dutton,  U.S.A.).  Like  many  other  romances  of 
Pre-Christian  times,  these  two  works  of  fiction  are  entertaining  enough,  but  can  hardly  be  taken  very 
seriously. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
PRE-CHRISTIAN   ERA.— continued. 


241 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


ZOROASTER 


*THE  STAR  OF  LOVE 


*A  VICTOR  OF  SALA- 

MIS 

TALES  OF  OLD  SICILY 


THE  ASTROLOGER'S 
DAUGHTER 

ALKIBIADES 


ON   THE   KNEES   OF 
THE  GODS 


*FouR  SONS 


aALEXANDER,  THE 

PRINCE 
ALEXANDER,  THE 

KING 
ALEXANDER,  AND 

ROXANA 


F.  Marion  Crawford 
(Macmillan) 


Florence  Morse  Kingsley 
(Appleton  &  Co.) 


W.  Stearns  Davis 
(Macmillan) 

Alex.  N.  Hood 

(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Geraldine  M.  Gay 
(H.  J.  Drane) 

Chas.  H.  Bromby 

(Clifton  :    Baker ;    and 
London:  Simpkin) 

Anna  Bowman  Dodd 
(Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.) 


A.  H.  Gilkes 

(G.    A.    Symcox,    Dul- 
wich) 


Marshall    Munroe    Kirk- 
man 

(Simpkin,  Eng.  ;  and 
Cropley  &  Phillips, 
U.S.A. 


Mainly  N.W.  Persia  in  the 
time  of  King  Darius  I., 
after  the  Persian  conquest 
of  Assyria.  The  King 
himself  (about  B.C.  500)  is 
prominent  in  the  story,  as 
well  as  the  half -historic, 
half-mythical  Zoroaster. 

The  Biblical  story  of  Esther 
and  Ahasuerus  (Xerxes)  ; 
Thermopylae  and  Salamis 
are  also  introduced. 

Days  of  Xerxes,  Leonidas,  and 
Themistocles  (Thermopylae) . 

Empedocles  (about  B.C.  450)  ; 
Syracuse  and  the  War 
with  Athens;  &c. 

Athens  in  the  Socratic  period. 


The  Peloponnesian  War  (So- 
crates and  Alcibiades). 


Athens,  Corinth,  and  Syra- 
cuse ;  time  of  Socrates, 
and  of  Alcibiades'  expedi- 
tion against  Sicily. 

Southern  Italy  in  the  year 
B.C.  338  (the  Samnite 
War)  ;  also  (last  chapter) 
Alexandria,  B.C.  307. 

A  series  of  "  Alexandrian 
Novels,"  dealing  with  the 
career  of  Alexander  the 
Great,  from  B.C.  338  (Philip 
of  Macedon  ;  the  Battle  of 
Chaeronea ;  &c.). 


a  This  first  novel  appeared  originally  (1903)  under  the  title,  "  Iskander  "  ;  in  its  latet  issue  it  is 
revised  and  re-written. 


242 


SUPPLEMENT. 
PRE-CHRISTIAN   ERA— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE  GOLDEN  HOPE 


THE  FAVORED  OF 
BAAL  (in  "  Chival- 
ric  Days").  Juv. 

THE  YOUNG  CARTHA- 
GINIAN. Juv. 


THE     PATRIOTS     OF 
PALESTINE.  Juv. 


MARCUS  :  OR  THE 
YOUNG  CENTURION. 
Juv. 


A  DAUGHTER  OF 
GAUL  (in  "  Draw 
in  your  Stool  ") 

*CLEOPATRE 


VERGILIUS 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Robert  H.  Fuller 
(Macmillan) 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,    Eng. ;    and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


Charlotte  M.  Yonge 

(National  Society,  Eng. ; 

and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

Geo.  Manville  Fenn 
(E.  Nister) 


Oliver  Onions  " 
(Mills  &  Boon) 


"  Jean  Bertheroy  " 

(Armand  Colin  et  Cie, 
Paris) 

Irving  Bacheller 
(Harper) 


SUBJECT. 


Alexander  the  Great  and 
various  figures  of  his  period 
(Aristotle,  Demosthenes, 
Darius  1 1 1 . ,  &c .) .  Athens , 
Thebes,  and  Persia,  about 
B.C.  330. 

Carthage,  B.C.  238  (Hamilcar 
and  Hannibal). 


Rome  v.  Carthage,  about 
B.C.  218-183  ;  Hamilcar, 
Hannibal,  Varro,  &c.  Co- 
vers Battle  of  Cannae  and 
Hannibal's  death. 

Jerusalem,  &c.,  at  the  time 
of  the  Maccabaean  Revolt. 
From  B.C.  174  onwards. 

Julius  Caesar  visits  the  home 
of  a  Roman  youth  ;  then 
— second  part  of  tale — the 
lad's  experiences  in  the 
Gallic  Wars  (Caesar  again). 

A  very  slight  tale  of  life  in 
the  galleys  at  the  time  of 
the  Roman  Conquest. 

The  later  years  of  Cleopatra, 
about  B.C.  31. 


Rome  (Augustus)  and  Pales- 
tine, on  the  eve  of  Christ's 
birth.  Antipater,  son  of 
Herod  ;  Salome,  &c. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


243 


FIRST   CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


aHERMANN    AND 

THUSNELDA.   Juv. 


PSYCHE 


ET  Tu  SEJANE  ! 


b JESUS  OF  NAZARETH 


UNDER  PONTIUS 
PILATE 


CBARABBAS 


ADNAH.     Juv. 


Ferd.  Schmidt  (trans.) 
(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 


Walter  S.  Cramp 

(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


Julia  H.  Twells 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


S.  C.  Bradley 

(Sherman,     French 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 


William  Schuyler 
(Funk  &  Wagnalls) 


Marie  Corrclli 

(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

J.  Breckenridge  Ellis 
(Religious  Tract  Society, 
Eng.  ;      and    G.      W. 
Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Germany  just  after  the  birth 
of  Christ ;  Arminius,  Chief 
of  the  Cherusci,  and  his 
victory  over  Varus  in  the 
year  A.D.  9. 

A  Greek  dancing-girl  in 
Rome,  A.D.  23  (Tiberius, 
Agrippina,  and  Sejanus). 

Capri  and  Tiberius :  a 
favourable  estimate  of  the 
Emperor. 

An  attempt  to  fill  up  imagi- 
natively the  twenty  for- 
mative years  of  Christ's 
life  between  his  childhood 
and  his  ministry. 

An  imaginary  correspondence 
between  a  young  Roman 
officer  (nephew  of  Pilate) 
serving  in  Judaea,  and  a 
friend  in  Athens,  A.D.  28 
and  29. 

A  sensational  New  Testa- 
ment romance. 


Palestine  (Capernaum,  Jeru- 
salem, &c.)  in  the  time  of 
Christ,  A.D.  30.  Then, 
Italy  some  years  later. 


a  This  interesting  tale  forms  one  of  the  volumes  in  an  admirable  series,  "  Life  Stories  for  Young 
People  "  (A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.,  U.S.A.).  Most  of  the  "  stories  "  are  to  be  classed  under  Biography 
rather  than  under  Fiction  ;  but  this  tale — as  well  as  another  entitled  "  The  Swiss  Heroes,"  which 
1  have  inserted  in  my  Fifteenth  Century  section — may  fairly  be  described  as  Historical  Romance  in 
the  strict  sense.  Other  volumes  in  this  series  deal  with  Charlemagne,  Barbarossa,  William  of  Orange, 
Beethoven,  Mozart,  Haydn,  Bach,  Maria  Theresa,  Gudrun,  Joan  of  Arc,  William  Tell,  Frederick  the 
Great,  Marie  Antoinette,  &c.  All  are  translated  from  the  German  by  George  P.  Upton. 

b  This  carefully  written  book  is  not  a  romance  in  the  ordinary  sense,  but  it  has  at  least  as  much 
claim  to  the  title  as  R.  Bird's  "  Jesus,  the  Carpenter  of  Nazareth  "  (Juv.),  which  is  sometimes  entered 
in  lists  of  fiction. 

c  Deliberately  excluded  from  my  previous  lists,  but  certainly  as  much  worth  reading  as  some 
of  those  romances  entered  in  the  same  section. 


244 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIRST   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


A  SON  OF  ISSACHAR. 

Juv. 


ULRIC  THE  JARL  :  A 
STORY  OF  THE  PENI- 
TENT THIEF.  Juv. 


THE     SON    OF    THE 

SWORDMAKER.    JuV. 

THE  SWORDMAKER'S 
SON.    Juv. 


aTiTus :    A  COMRADE 
OF  THE  CROSS. 
Juv. 


'•HERODIAS 
"  Stories      by 
Flaubert ") 

THE  TESTAMENT 
JUDAS 

JUDAS  ISCARIOT 
BEN  TOBIT 
ELEAZAR 


(in 
G. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


W.  O.  Stoddard 

(C.  H.  Kelly,  Eng. ;  and 
Eaton  &  Mains, 
U.S.A.) 


Opie  Read 
(Laird  &  Lee,  U.S.A.) 

W.  O.  Stoddard 

(Unwin,    Eng. ;     and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Florence  M.  Kingsley 
(Frowde  &  Hodder,  and 
Ward,    Lock,    Eng.  ; 
and  Altemus,  U.S.A.) 

Gustave  Flaubert  (trans.) 
(T.  C.  and  E.  C.  Jack) 

H.  Byatt 
(J-  Long) 


Leonid  N.  Andreyev 

(trans.) 
(F.  Griffiths) 


SUBJECT. 


Palestine  about  A.D.  30 ; 
Christ,  Pilate,  Herod,  &c., 
and  various  New  Testa- 
ment scenes — ending  with 
the  Crucifixion. 

Saxons  in  the  Northland ; 
also  various  sea  and  land 
adventures  (coast  of  Bri- 
tain, &c.).  Largely  Pales- 
tine in  the  time  of  Christ, 
ending  Calvary. 

A  Roman  soldier  in  the  time 
of  Christ  (Rome,  Britain, 
Palestine,  &c.). 

Palestine  (Capernaum,  Jeru- 
salem, &c.)  in  the  time  of 
Christ.  Ends  with  the 
Crucifixion,  &c. 

For  the  most  part  an  ampli- 
fication of  the  Gospel  story, 
ending  with  Christ's  death 
and  resurrection. 

Herod  Antipas  and  John. 


Supposed  confession  of  Judas 
Iscariot,  edited  by  a  Phoe- 
nician. 

Three  New  Testament  tales, 
published  (Eng.)  under  the 
one  title :  "  Judas  Is- 
cariot." They  deal,  re- 
spectively, with  Judas  and 
his  motives ;  a  certain 
Jewish  merchant's  petty 
experiences  on  the  very 
day  of  the  Crucifixion  ; 
and  Lazarus. 


a  The  first  of  five  Early  Christian  tales  from  the  same  pen,  the  other  four  being,  "  Love 
Triumphant ;  or,  A  Street  Boy  of  Jerusalem  "  (the  American  title  is,  "  Tor ;  or,  A  Street  Boy  of 
Jerusalem  ")  ;  "  Stephen,  a  Soldier  of  the  Cross  ;  "  "  Paul,  a  Herald  of  the  Cross  ;  "  and  "  The  Cross 
Triumphant."  Based  on  such  writers  as  Geikie,  Edersheim,  Farrar,  Conybeare  and  Howson,  &c. 
Perhaps  there  is  more  fictional  interest  in  "  Love  Triumphant "  (a  tale  of  Christ's  time)  than  in 
"  Titus." 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIRST  CENTURY— continued. 


245 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SAUL  OF  TARSUS  Elizabeth  Miller 

(Stead's  Pub.  Co.,  Eng. ; 
and  Bobbs-Merrill, 
U.S.A.) 


THE  SENATOR  LICI-  |  W.  Patrick  Kelly 
NIUS  (Routledge) 


DISCOBOL 


Compton  Reade 

(Robert  Scott,  Eng.) 


THE  CROWN  OF  PINE.    A.  J.  Church 
Juv.  (Seeley  &  Co.) 


AT  SUNRISE 


*Bv  THE  KING  AND 
QUEEN.  Juv. 


FOR   QUEEN  AND 
EMPEROR.  Juv. 


A  STORY  OF  ANCIENT 
WALES.    Juv. 


Herbert  Spurrell 
(Greening  &  Co.) 


Mrs.  Jerome  Mercier 
(Simpkin,  London ;  and 
W.    North,    Tewkes- 
bury) 

Ernest  Protheroe 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


H.  Elrington 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker,  U.S.A.) 


I 

ELDOL   THE    DRUID.  I  W.  H.  G.  Kingston 
Juv.  (Partridge  &  Co.) 


BRITAIN'S    GREAT- 
NESS FORETOLD 


Marie  Trevelyan 
(John  Hogg,  Eng.) 


SUBJECT. 


Early  Christianity  from  A.D. 
36  up  to  the  Conversion  of 
St.  Paul  (Jerusalem,  Alex- 
andria, Rome,  and  Da- 
mascus) . 

Rome  under  Caligula,  A.D. 
38. 

Early  Christians  in  the  time 
of  Caligula  (Rome). 

Rome,  Corinth,  and  the 
Isthmian  Games  (time  of 
Claudius,  A.D.  50). 

Dartmoor  and  S.  Devon, 
A.D.  31-61  (Ancient  Bri- 
tons and  Romans ;  a 
Phoenician  trader,  &c.  . 

Gloucester  district,  A.D.  50  ; 
Druids  and  Christianity 
(Caractacus  and  his  father 
Bran;  also  Imogen,  &c.). 

Roman  invasion  of  Britain, 
and  the  Siege  of  Jerusalem, 
about  A.D.  50-70  (Boadi- 
cea,  Suetonius,  Agricola, 
Caractacus,  &c.). 

Bangor,Caerleon-on-Usk,  &c. , 
at  the  time  of  the  Roman 
invasion  (Caractacus). 

Western  Britain  in  the  third 
quarter  of  the  First  Cen- 
tury :  Druids  v.  Christi- 
anity, and  the  establish- 
ment of  Roman  rule. 

Roman  invasion  of  Britain, 
A.D.  59-62  (Boadicea  ;  the 
Druids,  &c.). 


246 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIRST  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


UNDER  THE  ROMAN 
EAGLES.    Jttv. 


A    ROMAN    HOUSE- 
HOLD.   Juv. 


GLAUCIA  THE  GREEK 
SLAVE.    Juv. 


aBy     THAMES     AND 
TIBER 

NAOMI.     Juv. 


THE      FORGOTTEN 
DOOR.     Juv. 


THE    CITY    OF    DE- 
LIGHT 


FOR    THE    TEMPLE. 
Juv. 


*THE    DOOMED    CITY 


"  Amyot  Sagon  " 
(Partridge  &  Co.) 


G.  Norway 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 

Emma  Leslie 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


Mrs.  Aylmer  Gowing 
(J-  Long) 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Webb 

(Partridge,  and  others) 


Frank  Cowper 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Elizabeth  Miller 
(Jas.     Clarke     &     Co., 
Eng.  ;     and    Bobbs- 
Merrill,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie/  Eng. ;  and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

John  R.  Carling 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ; 
and  E.  J.  Clode, 
U.S.A.) 


Britain  and  Rome  in  the 
time  of  Nero.  Early 
Christians  and  the  Cata- 
combs ;  the  Burning  of 
Rome,  &c. 

Rome  under  Nero  (Early 
Christians). 


Rome  in  the  time  of  Pop- 
paea  and  Nero ;  also 
Athens  and  Corinth  (St. 
Paul,  Dionysius  the  Areo- 
pagite,  &c.). 

Rome  under  Nero.  Early 
Christians  and  St.  Paul. 

Jerusalem  during  its  last 
days,  A.D.  67-8  (time  of 
Vespasian). 

Escape  of  a  Roman  tribune 
after  the  Jews'  revolt,  and 
the  repulse  of  Gallus  (the 
Zealots),  A.D.  70. 

Palestine,  A.D.  70  (Siege  and 
Fall  of  Jerusalem). 


Palestine  and  Jerusalem — 
the  City's  Fall  (John  of 
Gischala). 

Siege  and  Fall  of  Jerusalem, 
A.D.  70. 


•  The  first  half  of  this  decidedly  mediocre  tale  deals  with  modern  lite  in  Rome  ;  the  second  half 
( a  girl's  dream)  with  the  Rome  of  Nero. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIRST  CENTURY— continued. 


247 


TITLK  OF  BOOK. 
THE  SLAVES  OF  SABI- 

NUS.       JllV. 


JUD.EUS  PROCURA- 
TOR (in  "  Mother 
of  Pearl  ") 


*THE    PRIESTESS    OF 
Isis 

THE  SLAVE  GIRL  OF 
POMPEII.    Juv. 

NYRIA 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Charlotte  M.  Yonge 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker,U.S.A.) 


Anatole  France  "  (trans.) 
(J.  Lane) 


Edouard   Schure    (trans.) 
(Rider  &  Sons) 

Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 

Mrs.   Campbell  Praed 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


SUBJECT. 


Batavia,  Rome,  &c.,  in  the 
days  of  Vespasian,  Titus, 
and  Domitian  (Persecuted 
Christians). 

Pontius  Pilate  at  Baia?,  40 
years  after  the  Crucifixion 
(intended  to  show  the 
inferior  place  of  Jesus  in 
the  life  and  thought  of 
Roman  contemporaries). 

Last  days  of  Pompeii. 


Pompeii    and    Corinth,    A.D. 
79- 

Rome        under        Domitian 
(Early  Christians). 


NOTE. — Novelists  and  story-tellers  have  often  tried  to  illustrate  the  life  of 
Christ,  as  well  as  the  period  immediately  following.  It  must  be  confessed  that 
very  few  have  succeeded  in  the  difficult  task.  Besides  the  examples  given  above, 
I  may  here  briefly  allude  to  a  few  others.  Among  older  works,  William  Ware's 
"  Julian  "  is  probably  one  of  the  best.  J.  A.  Ingraham's  "  Prince  of  the  House 
of  David  "  is,  I  suppose,  still  read  by  a  few.  To  turn  to  a  much  later  example, 
Mrs.  A.  F.  Johnston's  "  Joel,  a  Boy  of  Galilee  "  (L.  C.  Page,  U.S.A.)  has  been 
written  with  a  special  view  to  young  readers.  The  following  have  been  published 
within  the  last  few  years : — "  The  Court  of  Pilate,"  by  R.  R.  Hobbs ;  "  The 
Princess  of  Gan-Sar  "  (Mary  Magdalen),  by  Andrew  Klarman  ;  "  The  Story  of 
the  Child  that  Jesus  took,"  by  Dr.  Newman  Smyth  ;  "  The  Son  of  Siro  "  (Lazarus), 
by  Rev.  J.  E.  Copus,  S.J.  ;  "  Mary  of  Magdala,"  by  Harriette  G.  Roberson  ; 
"  Philo's  Daughter  :  the  story  of  the  daughter  of  the  thief  with  whom  Christ  was 
crucified,"  by  Nellie  G.  Robinson;  "The  Centurion's  Story"  (Crucifixion),  by 
P.  C.  Macfarlane  ;  "  The  White  Shield  "  (Phrygia,  A.D.  50),  by  Caroline  Atwater 
Mason  ;  and  "  Lux  Crucis  "  (St.  Paul),  by  Samuel  M.  Gardiner.  These  nine  tales 
are  written  by  American  authors ;  Mr.  Gardiner's  story  lias  had  some  vogue. 


248 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SECOND  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


<»DECEBAL'S  DAUGH- 
TER (in  "  A  Royal 
Story  Book  ") 


&THE    WAY    OF    THE 
CROSS.    Juv. 

*SlLANUS   THE  CHRIS- 
TIAN . 


^MARCUS  OF  ROME 
(in  "Historic 
Boys ").  Juv. 

MARCUS  AND  FAUS- 
TINA 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


H.M.  the  Queen  of  Rou- 

mania 
(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 

Dr.  Edwin  A.  Abbott 
(A.  &  C.  Black) 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 

Putnam,  U.S.A.) 
F.  Carrel 

(J-  Long) 


SUBJECT. 


A  short  story  of  Roman  con- 
quest (Trajan)  in  the  coun- 
try of  the  Dacians,  i.e.  in 
those  Danubian  regions 
which  are  to-day  called 
Roumania. 

Galilee  at  the  beginning  of 
the  Second  Century. 

The  autobiography  of  an 
imaginary  Roman.  He 
sets  forth  (A.D.  163)  the 
account  of  his  experiences 
when  attending  the  lec- 
tures of  Epictetus  in  Nico- 
polis,  during  the  second 
year  of  Hadrian,  A.D.  118. 

Rome,  A.D.  137  (boyhood  of 
Marcus  Aurelius). 

Rome  in  the  days  of  Marcus 
Aurelius  and  Verus  :  the 
revolt  of  Avidius  Cassius, 
ending  with  his  death. 


a  There  are  eight  other  stories  in  "  A  Royal  Story  Book  " :  all  these  slight  imaginative  sketches 
deal  with  bygone  Roumanian  periods.  "  The  Poet  "  is  a  legendary  tale  of  Ovid's  banishment  to  the 
Black  Sea  border  ;  "  The  Dacian  Virgin  "  treats  of  the  Roman  Wars  in  the  Danubian  district ;  other 
tales  depict  much  later  scenes. 

b  A  very  slight  tale,  worthy  of  insertion — if  for  no  other  reason — because  of  the  unusual  period 
with  which  it  deals. 

c  This,  and  the  other  historical  sketches  in  the  same  volume,  are  fictional  in  part ;  they  are 
interesting  and  well  written.  All  the  twelve  stories  will  be  found  in  my  Supplement,  under  their 
respective  periods. 


THIRD  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

*A   HERO   IN   WOLF- 
SKIN.   Juv. 

Tom  Bevan 
(Religious  Tract  Society, 
Eng.  ;     and    G.    W. 
Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 

Goth  v.  Roman,  A.D.  250-1 
(the  Danubian  district  and 
Rome  —  Emperor  Gallus). 

SUPPLEMENT. 
THIRD   CENTURY— continued. 


249 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


EXILES  OF  THE  !  J.  M.  Neale 
CEBENNA.     Juv.  (Parker,  Oxford) 


frLuciA's     MARRIAGE. 
Juv. 

.    Juv. 


LAPSED,  NOT  LOST 
(LAPSED,  BUT  NOT 
LOST).  Juv. 

THE  FARM  OF  Ap- 
TONGA.  Juv. 


*LA  FIN  DE  TADMOR 


*A  CHRISTIAN  BUT  A 
ROMAN 


cTHE  THEBAN  LEGION 
(in  "  Followers  of 
the  Lord  ").  Juv. 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,    Oxford) 

A.  D.  Crake 

(Mowbray  &  Co.) 


Mrs.  Rundle  Charles 
(Christian    Knowledge 
Society,   Eng. ;     and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

J.  M.  Neale 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Ed.  de  Frejac 

(Louis-Michaud,    Paris) 


M.  Jokai  (trans.) 

(Doubleday  &  McClure) 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


France  (Aries),  A.D.  250-1. 
The  Persecution  under 
Decius. 

The  Idumaean  Desert,  about 
A.D.  250-1  (Decius). 

Antioch,  A.D.  250-1  (Decian 
Persecution)  ;  and  Rome, 
Antioch,  Nisibis,  &c.  , 
about  A.D.  257  -  69 
(Valerian  Persecution,  and 
the  conquest  of  Valerian 
by  the  Persians) . 

Carthage  about  A.D.  250-8 
(Decius).  St.  Cyprian,  &c. 


Africa,  A.D.  253-8  (St.  Cyp- 
rian) . 


The  Emperor  Aurelian  and 
Zenobia,  Queen  of  Pal- 
myra, A.D.  271-2  (Paul  of 
Samosata,  &c.). 

Christians  (Rome  and  dis- 
trict) in  the  time  of  the 
Emperor  Carinus,  A.D. 
283-5.  Ends  with  the 
assassination  of  Carinus 
and  Diocletian's  election. 

Lake  Leman  district,  A.D. 
285  (Emperor  Maximian). 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  France  and  Spain  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 

b  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Asia  and  Africa  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 

c  Besides  the  volume  from  which  this  story  is  taken,  there  are  several  other  volumes  of  short 
stories  by  the  same  author,  dealing  mostly  with  Early  Christian  and  Mediaeval  Church  periods  ;  the 
tales  comprising  them,  however,  are  very  brief  indeed,  and  not  sufficiently  out  of  the  common — as 
regards  subject  and  date — to  justify  separate  insertion.  The  said  volumes  are,  "  Evenings  at  Sack- 
yille  College  "  ;  "  Deeds  of  Faith  "  ;  "  Lent  Legends  "  ;  "  Tales  of  Christian  Heroism  "  ;  and  "  Tales 
illustrative  of  the  Apostles'  Creed."  All  five  are  now  published  by  the  Christian  Knowledge  Society 
in  England,  and  by  Gorham  in  U.S.A. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
THIRD   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE     GAGE     OF     A 
PRINCESS  (in 

"  ChivalricDays"). 
Juv. 

A  DAUGHTER  OF  THE 
DRUIDS 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


Sidney     Newman     Sedg- 

wick 
(A.  H.  Stockwell,  Eng.) 


Rome,  A.D.  292  (the   youth 
of  Constantino). 


Roman  Britain  (Surrey  dis- 
trict ;  Verulam ;  &c.) 
A.D.  296-303.  The  Dio- 
cletian and  Constantius 
period  (St.  Alban). 


FOURTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

*THE  EGYPTIAN  WAN- 
DERERS.   Juv. 


THE        VICTOR'S 
LAUREL.     Juv. 


*No.  XIII.  ;  or,  THE 
STORY  OF  THE 
LOST  VESTAL.  Juv. 


THE  SEED  OF  THE 
CHURCH  (in 
"  Faith's  First 
Christmas,  and 
other  stories").  Juv. 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 


Emma  Marshall 
(Cassell  &  Co.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


Christians  in  the  Egyptian 
Deserts  about  A.D.  300 
(the  Tenth  Persecution). 


Southern  Italy  (Puteoli),  and 
the  African  Deserts,  &c., 
A.D.  302.  School  life  dur- 
ing the  Tenth  Persecution 
(Epilogue,  A.D.  325). 

Severus  in  Britain  (Veru- 
lam), A.D.  303  ;  the  mar- 
tyrdom of  St.  Alban. 
Then  Rome  under  Diocle- 
tian (303)  and  under  Con- 
stantine  (313)-  Ends 
Alexandria,  A.D.  333. 

Roman  Britain  (Herts)  about 
A.D.  304  (Martyrdom  of 
St.  Alban). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FOURTH   CENTURY— continued. 


251 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


CAVE    IN    THE 
HILLS.    Juv. 


EVANUS.    Juv. 


&THE  DAUGHTERS  OF 
POLA.    Juv. 


QUAY   OF  THE 
DIOSCVRI.    Juv. 


ON  THE  EMPEROR'S 
SERVICE.     Juv. 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


Emma  Leslie 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 


THE  VICTORY   THAT  I  Annie  L.  Gee 


OVERCOMETH.    JUV. 


THE  MEETING  OF  THE 
WAYS 


STARS  IN  THE  TWI- 
LIGHT.    Juv. 


(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

J.  D.  Baxter 
(Greening  &  Co.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Roman  Britain  (St.  Albans), 
A.D.  305  (time  of  the 
Diocletian  Persecution). 

Scotland  and  S.  Britain  (Chil- 
tern  district),  about  A.D. 
300-6 ;  then,  Rome  and 
Italy  A.D.  312  (Constan- 
tine). 

Harbour  of  Pola  (Austria), 
A.D.  303  (Persecution 
under  Diocletian). 

Alexandria,  Rome,  Nicaea, 
&c.,  in  the  early  Fourth 
Century  (Athanasius  v. 
Anus). 

Alexandria,  Nicaea,  Carthage 
&c.,  in  the  time  of  Con- 
stantine  (Athanasius  and 
the  Arians,  etc.).  Then — 
30  years  later — Antioch  in 
the  time  of  Julian. 

Sebaste  (Cappadocia),  A.D. 
315-23  (time  of  Con- 
stantine) . 


A  tale  of  the  Roman  Wall 
in  Britain,  A.D.  367-9, 
and  the  fighting  against 
the  Picts. 

Rome  about  A.D.  384  (time 
of  St.  Jerome  and  Pope 
Damasus).  Last  chapter, 
Bethlehem  (fugitives  from 
the  sack  of  Rome  in  A.D. 
410). 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  I.  ("  England :  The  Early  Period  ")  of  Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History. 

b  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Eastern  and  Northern  Europe  "  (Parker's 
Tales  Illustrating  Church  History). 

c  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Asia  and  Africa  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 


252 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FOURTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


LEO  OF  MEDIOLANUM.  i  Gertrude  Hollis 

Juv.  (Christian      Knowledge 

Society,    Eng.  ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


THE  KING'S  HOUSE 
(in  "  A  Fair  Haven, 
and  other  stories  "). 
Juv. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


St.  Ambrose  and  the  Arians, 
A.D.  374-87  (Milan). 


St.  Ninian  and  the  Church 
in  Scotland  (Southern  Picts) 
A.D.  397. 


FIFTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE    PENITENT    (in    W.  E.  Heygate 
a"  Wild        Scenes  I      (Parker,  Oxford) 
amongst  the  ! 

Celts").     Juv. 

*NICANOR,  TELLER  OF    C.  Bryson  Taylor 

TALES.     Juv.  (A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 


oTHE  ALLELUIA  BAT- 
TLE.    Juv. 

THE  EASTER  VICTORY 
(in  "  The  Shepherd 
Prior,  and  other 
stories ").  Juv. 

*ATTILA  AND  HIS  CON- 
QUEROR.   Juv. 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


Mrs.  Rundle  Charles 
(Christian     Knowledge 
Society ;     and    Gor- 
ham, U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Ireland  and  Cornwall,  about 
A.D.  410  (St.  Piran). 


Britain  in  the  period  A.D. 
410-46  (end  of  the 
Roman  dominion). 

Britain  (Trent  district),  A.D. 
428-9.  The  Pelagian  con- 
troversy. 

Wales  about  A.D.  430  (Druid 
survivals). 


Ireland,  Rome,  France,  etc., 
in  mid-Fifth  Century.  The 
Sack  of  Rome  by  the 
Vandals  (Days  of  St. 
Patrick  and  St.  Leo  the 
Great). 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  I.  ("  England  :   The  Early  Period  ")  of  Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTH  CENTURY— continued. 


253 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

THE  GREAT  HAND- 
WRITING (in  "  The 
Shepherd  Prior," 
&c.).  Juv. 

THE  FALL  OF  ANDE- 
RIDA  (in  "  Stories 
from  Old  English 
History").  Juv. 

Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 

Ireland   (Meath)   about  A.D. 
450  (St.  Patrick). 

Sussex    (Pevensey)    in    A.D. 
491    (time  of    the   Anglo- 
Saxon  Conquest). 

SIXTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


BLUE  AND  GREEN 


THE  HOME  COMING 


THE  COOK  AND  THE 
CAPTIVE.     Juv. 


*VERANILDA 


*THE    STAR    IN    THE 
WEST.    Juv. 


Sir  Henry  Pottinger 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


A.  Conan  Doyle 

(Strand  Magazine,  Dec. 
1909) 

Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.)! 

George  Gissing 
(Constable  &  Co.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker,U.S.A.) 


Constantinople,  A.D.  514  on- 
wards (Empress  Theodora, 
Justinian,  Belisarius,  John 
of  Cappadocia,  &c.). 

A  short  tale  dealing  with  the 
Empress  Theodora,  A.D. 
528. 

The  Franks,  A.D.  532  (time 
of  St.  Remi,  &c.). 


Rome  and  Italy  (Central 
and  Southern)  in  the  time 
of  Justinian  and  Belisa- 
rius. The  struggle  with 
the  Goths;  St.  Benedict 
in  his  monastery  near 
Casinum,  &c.  About  A.D. 
530  to  540. 

The  British  Church  in  Wales 
about  A.D.  550  (Llancarfan 
district  in  time  of  Yellow 
Plague,  &c). 


254 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  PEACE  OF  THE 
CHURCH.     Juv. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


A  LOVE  IN  ANCIENT    T.  H.  Crosfield 


DAYS 


(Elkin  Mathews) 


THE  .  DOOMED  CITY.    !  A.  D.  Crake 
Juv.  (Mowbray) 


AN  ANGEL  UNA  WARES, 
(in  "The  Shepherd 
Prior,"  &c.).  Juv. 

AFTER  MANY  DAYS 

(Sequel,   in    same 

vol.).     Juv.       , 

THE  DRUIDESS 


AN  ISLAND  OF  THE> 
BLEST  (in"  Faith's 
First  Christmas," 
&c.).  Juv. 

HOWNECHTAN  KEPT 

HIS  Vow   (Sequel, 
insamevol.).  Juv. 

THE     FUGITIVE     (in 
a"  Wild         Scenes 


amongst 
Celts"). 


Juv. 


the 


SUBJECT. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Florence  Gay 

(J.  Ouseley,  Eng.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 

(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


Monastery      of     Llancarfan 
(S.  Wales)  about  A. D.  550. 


Romano-British  maidens  and 
the  Saxons  (mid-Sixth 
Century). 

Britain  (Chiltern  district) 
about  A.D.  570-90.  The 
Anglo-Saxon  Conquest  and 
St.  Augustine's  Mission. 


(i)  Rome, 
Gregory 
slaves). 


A.D.    586-90   (St. 
and    the    Saxon 


(2)  Canterbury,  A.D.  597. 


Ireland,  West  of  England, 
and  Wales.  Celt  v.  Saxon, 
and  Druid  v.  Christian, 
about  the  last  decade  of 
the  Sixth  Century  (St. 
Columba  at  the  conven- 
tion of  Druimceta). 

(i)  West  Coast  of  Scotland, 
A.D.  592  (St.  Columba). 


:)  Monastery  of  lona, 
597  (St.  Columba). 


Scotland  and  the  Hebrides 
(lona),  A.D.  590-7  (St. 
Columba). 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  I.  ("  England:   The  Early  Period")  of  Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTH  CENTURY— continued. 


255 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


aTHE  RIVALS.     Juv. 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


PALADINS     OF  ;  Sir  C.  R.  Markham 
EDWIN  THE  GREAT.  I      (A.  &  C.  Black) 
Juv. 


SUBJECT. 


Kent,  A.D.  594-7-  King 
Ethelbert  and  St.  Augus- 
tine ;  the  Anglo-Saxon 
Church. 

England,  Rome,  and  the 
East,  about  A.D.  588  to  633 
(King  Edwin  of  Northum- 
bria). 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  I.  ("  England :   The  Early  Period  ")  of  Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History. 

b  Hardly  fiction,  very  historical  and  didactic. 


a  SEVENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE     FLOWER     OF 
DESTINY 


IMOGEN.     Juv. 


*THE  SOUL  OF  A  SERF 
(FATED  TO  WIN) 


Margaret  Mordecai 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 


J.  Breckenridge  Ellis 
(Lee  &  Laird) 


SUBJECT. 


Persia  at  the  beginning  of  the 
Seventh  Century  (time 
of  the  Empires  of  Persia 
and  Rome). 

Wales  and  Kent  in  the  first 
decade  of  the  Seventh 
Century.  The  ancient 
British  Church  and  its 
new  rival  from  Rome  (St. 
Augustine). 

Saxons  v.  Angles  on  the 
Baltic  shores,  beginning 
of  Seventh  Century  ;  and 
Britain,  c.  616  : — Ethel- 
frith  of  "  North  Humbria," 
and  Penda  of  Mercia.  Also 
Edwin,  son  of  Ella,  just 
before  his  Northumbrian 
Conquest. 


a  Five  of  the  seven  tales  in  A.  D.  Crake's  "  Stories  of  the  Old  Saints  and  the  Anglo-Saxon  Church  " 
(Mowbray)  deal  with  the  Seventh  Century  ;  but,  as  these  tales  are  all  very  slight,  and  the  periods 
dealt  with  are  more  or  less  covered  by  Miss  Debenham  and  other  writers,  I  merely  allude  to  the  volume 
as  a  whole. 


256 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


INTO  THE  DARK  (in 
"  Faith's  First 
Christmas,"  &c.) 
Juv. 

*KING  PENDA'S  CAP- 
TAIN (No.  i  of 
Historical  Ro- 
mances for  Young 
Ptjple).  Juv. 


THE  COMING  OF  THE 
KING  (in "Faith's 
First  Christmas," 
&c.).  Juv. 

THE  BATTLE  IN  THE 
WEST  (Sequel,  in 
same  vol.).  Juv. 

WHAT  ERCONGETA 
SAW  (in  "  The 
Peace  of  the 
Church,  and  other 
stories").  Juv. 

THE  SHEPHERD 

PRIOR.     Juv. 


THE  LARK'S  CAROL 
(in  "Faith's  First 
Christmas,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

THE  PAINTER'S  MES- 
SAGE (in  "  The 
Shepherd  Prior," 
&c.).  Juv. 

A  FISHER  OF  MEN 
(in  "  The  Peace  of 
the  Church,"  &c.). 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


Mackenzie  MacBride 
(J.  M.  Dent  &  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


York,    A.D.    626-7    (Edwin, 
King  of  Bernicia). 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 

Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


Young  Pictish  hero's  ex- 
ploits under  Penda,  King 
of  Mercia.  Nottingham, 
&c.,  and  the  country  of 
the  Picts,  about  the  second 
quarter  of  the  Seventh 
Century. 

(i)  Lindisfarne,  A.D.  633 
(King  Oswald). 


(2)  Lindisfarne,  A.D.  635-42 
(St.  Aidan). 


Northumbria,  A.D.  665-72 
(Bishop  Wilfrid  and  Bis- 
hop Chad). 


Tweed    district    (Melrose), 
A.D.  664-80. 


Whitby  (Abbess  Hilda)  about 

A.D.  670. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,U.S.A.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


Rome  and  Northumbria, 
A.D.  680  (St.  Benedict). 


Sussex,    A.D.    682 
Wilfrid). 


(Bishop 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTH  CENTURY. 


257 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

THE  ANGEL  OF  THE 
FEN  (in  "  The 
Peace  of  the 
Church,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.  A.) 

East  Anglian  Fen  Country, 
A.D.  700. 

*A  PRINCE  OF  CORN- 
WALL. Juv. 

C.  W.  Whistler 
(Warne  &  Co.) 

Glastonbury  and  the  West 
Country  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Eighth  Century 
(time  of  Ina  of  Wessex). 

THE  RESCUE  (in 
a"  The  Dove  of 
Tebenna,"  &c.). 

J.  M.  Neale 
(Parker,  Oxford) 

Spain,  A.D.  718  (Moorish 
Conquest). 

AN  ASCENSIONTIDE 
DREAM  (in  "  The 
Shepherd  Prior," 
&c.).  Juv. 

Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

Jarrow,  A.D.  735  (Death  of 
Bede). 

&THE  CHILDHOOD  OF 
OFFA  (in  "  Stories 
from  Old  English 
History  ").  Juv. 

A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 

Mercia,  A.D.  735-55. 

THE  OPEN  WINDOW 
(in  "  The  Peace  of 
the  Church,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

Wimborne     Nunnery,     A.D. 
730-60  (time  of  St.  Boni- 
face). 

cTHE  LILY  OF  TIFLIS. 
Juv. 

J.  M.  Neale 
(Parker,  Oxford) 

Tiflis  (Caucasian  region),  A.D. 
750.  The  Crescent  and  the 
Cross. 

THE  TELL-TALE  FOOT 
(in      "  Chivalric 
Days").     Juv. 

Elbridge  S.  Brooks 
(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

Paris,  A.D.  750  (Pepin). 

THE  AVENGER  OF 
BLOOD  (in  "  Stories 
from  Old  English 
History").  Juv. 

A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 

Wessex  (Winchester,  &c.)  in 
A.D.  754. 

Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  France  and  Spain  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 

b  A  tiny  story,  but  a  most  unusual  period. 

c  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Asia  and  Africa  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 

S 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


FOR      THE      WHITE 
CHRIST.    Juv. 


Robert  Ames  Bennet 
(Putnam,    Eng.  ;     and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 


*A  KING'S  COMRADE.  I  C.  W.  Whistler 

Juv.  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


*A   PRINCE   ERRANT. 
Juv. 


C.  W.  Whistler 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


SUBJECT. 


Charlemagne  and  his  Camp 
Court,  A.D.  778  (War  with 
the  Moors  in  Spain) . 

Hereford  in  the  time  of  Offa, 
and  Ethelbert  of  East 
Anglia,  about  A.D.  792 
(arrival  of  the  Danes). 

;  S.W.  Wales,  Cornwall,  and 
Ireland,  about  A.D.  795 
(Saxon,  Briton,  Norseman, 
and  Dane). 


NINTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


«THE  DOVE    OF   TA- 
BENNA.     JUV. 


J.  M.  Neale 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


THE  WAY  OF  SERVICE  ,  Mary  H.  Debenham 
(in  "  The  Peace  of      (National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
the  Church,"  &c.).        and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 
Juv. 

*A  SON  OF  ODIN.  Juv.    E.  K.  Seth-Smith 
(Jarrold) 


A     KING'S     THEGN. 
Juv. 


Geraldine  M.  Gay 
(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Monastery  of  Tabenna,  near 
Cordova,  A.D.  851  (Chris- 
tians and  Mahometans). 


East    Anglia,    A.D. 
(King  Edmund). 


858-70 


Norsemen  at  Winterton  (East 
Anglia),  A.D.  861.  War 
with  the  Danes,  &c. 

England  in  time  of  Ethelred 
(Winchester,  A.D.  867)  ; 
then,  King  Alfred  among 
the  Danes,  &c.,  A.D.  878. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  France  and  Spain  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINTH  CENTURY— continued. 


259 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


BLACK  DANES. 
Juv. 


THROUGH  THE  DOOR 
OF  HOPE.    Juv. 


WULNOTH  THE  WAN- 
DERER.    Juv. 

THE  MARTYR'S  VIC- 
TORY.    Juv. 


How  THE  KING  PAS- 
SED BY  (in  "A 
Fair  Haven,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

*AT  THE  KING'S  RIGHT  j 
HAND.    Juv. 


SUBJECT. 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


Annie  L.  Gee 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Escott-Inman 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ; 
and  McClurg,  U.S.A.) 

Emma  Leslie 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


Mrs.  E.  M.  Field 
(Wells  Gardner) 


*  KEEPERS    OF    ENG-  !  Mary  H.  Debenham 
LAND.     Juv.  (National  Society,  Eng.; 

and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


England,  A.D.  870  (King 
Edmund)  ;  and  A.D.  893-4 
(Alfred).  Time  of  the 
Danish  Wars. 

England,  about  A.D.  868-80 
(the  Danish  Invasion, 
Gu  thrum  and  Alfred). 


Time  of  Ethelred  and  Alfred  ; 
the  Danish  harrying  (Battle 
of  Ethandune,  A.D.  878). 

Conversion  of  the  Danes  in 
East  Anglia,  about  A.D. 
880-90  period  (Saxons  of 
Mercia  go  to  King  Guth- 
rum's  Court  at  Thetford). 

King  Alfred,  A.D.  898. 


Danes  v.  Saxons  about  A.D. 
870-901  (Ethelred — Alfred 
period) .  Essex,  Berk- 
shire, Dorsetshire,  and 
Norway. 

E.  Wessex  border,  A.D.  878 ; 
then  A.D.  893-901.  King 
Alfred  and  the  Danes, 
ending  with  the  King's 
death. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  I.  ("  England  :   The  Early  Period  ")  of  Parker's  Tries 
Illustrating  Church  History. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
aTENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*CONAN  THE  WONDER- 
WORKER (Sequel  to 
"  Keepers  of  Eng- 
land ").  Juv. 


*A  SEA  QUEEN'S  SAIL- 
ING.   Juv. 


THE  EALDORMAN'S 
STORY  (in  "  The 
Peace  of  the 
Church,"&c.).  Juv, 

BRIAN  OF  MUNSTER  ; 
(in  "  Historic  | 
Boys").  Juv. 

THE  STORY  OF  EDGAR 
AND  ELFRIDA  (in 
"  Stories  from  Old 
English  History"). 
Juv. 

&THE  FORSAKEN.  Juv. 


SUBJECT. 


Mary  Debenham  An  Irishman   ("Scot")  and 

(National  Society,  Eng. ;  ]  a  Saxon  youth  as  captives 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.)  !  in  Norway,  A.D.  912-13  : 
the  Norsemen  and  Chris- 
tianity. Glimpses  of  Nor- 
mandy and  England. 


C.  W.  Whistler 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


EDWARD  THE  MARTYR  A.  D.  Crake 


(in  "  Stories  from 
Old  English  His- 
tory"). Juv. 

cTHE  CONVERSION  OF 
ST.  VLADIMIR.  Juv. 

IN  THE  VAN  OF  THE 
VIKINGS.    Juv. 


(Mowbray) 


J.  W.  Donaldson 
(Parker,  Oxford) 

M.  F.  Outram 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 


The  Vikings  about  A.D.  935. 
Northern  and  Irish  Coasts 
(time  of  Hakon  the  Good). 

St.  Dunstan,  about  A.D.  940. 


Ireland  (County  Clare),  A.D. 
948.  The  boyhood  of 
Brian  Boru. 

Devonshire,  A.D.  965  (time 
of  St.  Dunstan). 


Winchester,  &c.,  in  the  time 
of  Archbishop  Dunstan 
and  King  Edgar. 

Edward  and  Ethelred,  A.D. 
975- 


Russia  (Kief).  Vladimir  I. 
and  his  conversion  to 
Christianity,  A.D.  988. 

King  Olaf  Tryggvason,  A.D. 
995-1000. 


a  A  slight  anonymous  tale  entitled,  "  Brave  Dame  Mary  "  (Christian  Knowledge  Society)  is 
frequently  misplaced  in  lists  of  fiction ;  the  book,  which  is  of  poor  quality,  does  not  depict  Tenth 
Century  England,  but  Seventeenth  Century  England  (Civil  War)  ! 

b  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  II.  ("  England  :  The  Mediaeval  Period  ")  of  Parker's 
Tales  Illustrating  Church  History. 

c  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Eastern  and  Northern  Europe  "  (Parker's 
Tales  Illustrating  Church  History). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
TENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


261 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE    NORTH    STAR. 
Juv. 


THE  STAR  OF  VAL- 
HALLA.   Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


M.  E.  Henry- Ruffin 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


Myra  Cross 

(F.  A.  Stokes  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


Ireland  and  Norway  in  the 
time  of  King  Olaf  Trygg- 
vason. 

The  spread  of  Christianity  in 
Norway. 


ELEVENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE    SORCERESS 
ROME 


OLAF  OF  NORWAY  (in 
"  Historic  Boys  "). 
Juv. 

THE  VINLAND  CHAM- 
PIONS. Juv. 


*THE  STORY  OF  ROLF 
AND  THE  VIKING'S 
Bow.  Juv. 


NORTHERN 
LIGHT.    Juv. 


Nathan  Gallizier 
(Dean,     Eng. ; 
Page,  U.S.A.) 


and 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

Ottilie  A.  Liljencrantz 
(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ;  and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 

Allen  French 

(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


J.  W.  Donaldson 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


The  Emperor  Otto  III.,  and 
Stephania,  wife  of  Cres- 
centius  (Senator  of  Rome), 
in  the  year  1000.  The 
Prelude  deals  with  Rome, 
at  the  time  of  Pope  Gre- 
gory V.'s  assassination,  and 
the  election  of  Sylvester  II. 

Sweden  and  Norway  in  1010. 
(Boyhood  of  KingOlaf  II.). 


Vikings  in   North  America, 
early  Eleventh  Century. 


Iceland  in  the  Eleventh  Cen- 
tury— The  old  religion  and 
the  new. 

Iceland  and  Greenland,  mid- 
Eleventh  Century  (Bishop 
Isleif,  &c.). 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Eastern  and  Northern  Europe  "  (Parker's 
Tales  Illustrating  Church  History). 


262 


SUPPLEMENT. 
ELEVENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


A  GOOD  SHEPHERD 
(in  "  A  Fair 
Haven,"  &c.).  Juv. 

WILLIAM  OF  NOR- 
MANDY (in  "  His- 
toric Boys").  Juv. 

ELGIVA 


THE  LADYE  OF  LYD- 
LINCH.    Juv. 

*THE  FALL  OF  THE 
GRAND  SARRASIN. 
Juv. 

A  NORTHUMBRIAN  IN 
ARMS.    Juv. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

D.  Ryles  Griffiths 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Canterbury,      1012 
bishop  Alphege). 


(Arch- 


Rouen,      1040      (The 
queror's  boyhood) . 


Con- 


*GYTHA'S 
Juv. 


MESSAGE. 


Monmouthshire  from  1042. 
Time  of  Edward  the  Con- 
fessor :  Saxon  and  Nor- 
man, &c. 

England  in  1046,  and  in  1066. 
Winchester  and  West  Par- 
ley. 

A  Moorish  Pirate's  invasion 
of  Guernsey  in  1057  (Duke 
William  of  Normandy,  &c.) 


Mary  Schofield 

(H.  G.  Commin,  Bourne- 
mouth) 

Wm.  John  Ferrar 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

George  Surrey  Northumbria  and   Wales  in 

(Frowde;  and  Hodder)  j  the  period  just  before  the 
Norman  Conquest  (Here- 
ward  the  Wake). 


Emma  Leslie 
(Blackie) 


THE  DRAGON  OF  THE    E.  J.  Oswald 
NORTH.    Juv.  (Seeley  &  Co.) 


«*THE      ANDREDS-    A.  D.  Crake 

WEALD.     Juv.  (Parker,  Oxford) 


Saxon  England  (Bristol,  Lon- 
don, Winchester,  &c.), 
1053—66.  Ends  with  the 
coming  of  William  and  the 
Battle  of  Hastings. 

S.  Italy  (Salerno,  &c.),  1020- 
56  :  time  of  the  first  Nor- 
man rulers.  Olaf,  Em- 
peror Henry,  &c.  The 
Saracens. 

Pevensey,  &c.,  from  about 
1065-87  (Norman  Con- 
quest period).  Covers 
Stamford  Bridge,  Hastings, 
and  William's  reign  up  to 
his  death. 


a  Constitutes  Vol.  IV.  (The  Norman  Conquest)  in  Parker's  Tales  Illustrating  Church  History. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
ELEVENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


263 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


alN  THE  NEW  FOREST.  !  Herbert  Strang  and  John 


Juv. 


BEHIND    THE    VEIL. 
Juv. 


Aston 
(Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 


A  SAXON  WHOM  THE    Mary  H.  Debenham 
NORMANS     LOVED        (National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker,U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


(in"  The  Shepherd 
Prior,"  &c.).    Juv. 


THE  SWORD  AND  THE 
COWL 


THE  QUEEN'S  FERRY 
(in  "  Faith's  First 
Christmas,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

A  GOODLY  PEARL. 
Juv. 


MALCOLM  CANMORE'S 
PEARL 


*THE  PILGRIM 


Edgar  Swan 

(Digby  Long  &  Co.) 


England  under  William  the 
Conqueror,  1066-87 :  be- 
gins with  Battle  of  Hast- 
ings (full  account),  and 
ends  with  the  King's  death. 

The  Battle  of  Hastings  and 
after  (Sir  Wm.  de  Percy  in 
Northumbria).  Later  chap- 
ters deal  with  the  First 
Crusade,  1096-7. 

West  of  England  about  1080 
(Bishop  Wulfstan  of  Wor- 
cester) . 


Cotswold  Manor  in  the  Nor- 
man Conquest  period 
(Saxon  and  Norman) . 


Mary  H.  Debenham  {  Fifeshire  Coast,  about   1075 

(National  Society,  Eng. ;  !       (King  Malcolm  and  Queen 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) '      Margaret). 


Mary  H.  Debenham  Court    of    Malcolm    III.    of 

(National  Society,  Eng.  ;  |      Scotland  :  Margaret,  sister 
andWhittaker,U.S.A.)        of  Edgar  Atheling. 


Agnes  Grant  Hay 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Arthur  Lewis 
(Blackwood) 


Malcolm  III.  of  Scotland,  and 
his  bride,  Margaret  (the 
"pearl").  Ends  with  the 
King's  death  in  1093. 


A  Welsh  pilgrim  in  Rome, 
1075-76 ;  last  chapter, 
1084.  Pope  Gregory  VII. 
(Hildebrand)  and  his 
struggle  with  the  Emperor 
Henry  IV.  of  Germany. 


a  One  of  Herbert  Strang's  Historical  Series  ;   the  aim  of  books  in  this  well-conceived  series  is  to 
;nt  the  more  important  events  of  a  reign  or  period,  "  intermingled  with  a  rousing  story  of  ad- 


prese 
venture." 


264 


SUPPLEMENT. 
ELEVENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*AUTOUR  D'UNE  TIARE 


«THE  CROSS  IN  SWE- 
DEN.    Juv. 


THE  KING'S  STIRRUP. 
Juv. 


THE  STRANGER  WHOM 
ENGLAND  LOVED 
(in"  The  Shepherd 
Prior,"  &c.).  Juv . 

^AUBREY  DE  L'ORME. 
Juv. 


*GERALD  THE  SHERIFF. 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Emile  Gebhart 

(Armand   Colin   et  Cie, 
Paris) 


J.  W.  Donaldson 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


E.  Harcourt  Mitchell 
(Christian      Knowledge 
Society,    Eng. ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


C.  W.  Whistler 
(Warne  &  Co.) 


*A  SAXON  MAID. 


Juv.l  Eliza  F.  Pollard 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Caldwell,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Italy  (Rome  and  Canossa)  in 
the  time  of  the  Emperor 
Henry  IV.  and  Pope  Gre- 
gory VII.,  1075-85. 

Sweden,  1078-81  (King  Ingi 
and  his  victory  near  Up- 
sal). 

The  New  Forest  in  the  days 
of  William  Rufus,  ending 
with  the  King's  death 
(Prince  Henry,  Walter 
Tyrel,  &c.). 

A  Worcestershire  Monastery, 
i°93  (St.  Anselm). 


Normandy     and     England, 
1077-1109  (St.  Anselm). 


A  sea-tale  of  the  English 
South  Coast  (Isle  of  Wight, 
&c.)  in  the  time  of  William 
Rufus,  1098. 

Abbey  of  Romsey,  &c.,  in 
the  William  Rufus — Henry 
I.  period  (Norman  devas- 
tations). Henry,  Arch- 
bishop Anselm,  &c. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Eastern  and  Northern  Europe  "  (Parker's 
Talcs  Illustrating  Church  History). 

b  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  II.  ("  England  :  The  Medieval  Period  ")  of  Parker's 
Talcs  Illustrating  Church  History. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
TWELFTH  CENTURY. 


265 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


ARMADIN 


BRIAN   FITZ   COUNT. 
Juv. 


WON — NOT  BY  MIGHT. 
Juv. 


THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE 
CAVE.    Juv. 


THE  LADY  OF  TRI- 
POLI 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


BALDWIN  OF 
SALEM  (in 
toric  Boys").  Juv. 


Alfred  Bowker 
(Sir  J.  Causton  &  Sons) 


A.  D.  Crake 
(Longmans) 


Annie  L.  Gee 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

W.  L.  O'Byrne 
(Blackie) 


M.  Barrington 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 


JERU-    Elbridge  S.  Brooks 
"  His-  \      (Blackie,     Eng. ; 
i         Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

I 


and 


THE  VICAR  OF  THE  j  Clinton  Scollard 
MARCHES  (Sherman,     French, 

U.S.A.) 


aTHE  DIARY  OF  BRO- 
THER BARTHOLO- 
MEW. Juv. 


Mrs.  Rundle  Charles 
(H.  R.  Allenson) 


SUBJECT. 


Winchester  in  the  days  of 
Henry  I.,  Bishop  Henry 
de  Blois,  and  Stephen  (the 
latter's  accession,  and  the 
Civil  War  with  Matilda). 

Wallingford  Castle,  1139 ; 
then  Oxford,  Wallingford, 
and  Dorchester  Abbey, 
1141-53.  Time  of  the 
Civil  War  (Stephen). 

England,  1147-53:  moor- 
land feud  in  the  days  of 
Stephen. 

England  (time  of  Stephen — 
Civil  War), Ireland,  France, 
and  Italy.  St.  Bernard, 
Innocent  II.,  and  the 
Second  Crusade. 

S.  France  (Bordeaux  district) 
and  Tripoli,  &c.,  in  the 
1140-50  period:  Rudel, 
the  Troubadour  Prince  of 
Blaye,  and  Odierna,  Coun- 
tess of  Tripoli. 

The  Second  Crusade,  1147 
(Baldwin  III.). 


Italy  in   the   days  of  Con- 
rad III. 


Germany  (the  Odenwald)  and 
S.  France,  mid  to  late 
Twelfth  Century.  Bernard 
of  Clairvaux ;  Pierre  Waldo 
and  the  Poor  Men  of  Lyons, 
&c. 


a  An  imaginary  monkish  record  ;  brief,  but  sympathetically  reconstructing  the  religious  aspira- 
tions of  the  more  earnest  minds  of  the  period.  The  "  Diary  "  is  now  (end  1910)  first  published 
separately  :  it  originally  appeared  some  fifty  years  ago  in  a  volume  of  "  Tales  and  Sketches  of  Christian 
Life,"  published  by  Nisbet. 


266 


SUPPLEMENT. 
TWELFTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


oTHE  FALCON   KING. 
Juv. 


THE  LOVE  STORY  OF 
GIRALDUS 


*ONE  SNOWY  NIGHT. 
Juv. 

LET  ERIN  REMEMBER 


THE  STRAIGHT  ROADI 
(in  "  The  Peace  of 
the  Church,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

THE  KING'S  BUSINESS 
(Sequel,  in  same 
vol.).  Juv. 


SUBJECT. 


AGNES 
Juv. 


DOLPHIN      OF 
SEPULCHRE. 


THE 
Juv. 


THE  SHADOW  OF  THE 
RAGGEDSTONE 


W.  L.  O'Byrne 
(Blackie) 


Alice  Cunninghame 
(F.  Griffiths) 


Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 

"  May  Wynne  ' 
(Greening) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


DE    TRACY,  j  J. 


M.  Neale 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


Gertrude  Hollis 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

C.  F.  Grindrod 
(Elkin  Mathews) 


Henry  II.  and  his  time.  Be- 
gins Wales,  1146;  then 
France  ;  but  culminates  in 
the  Anglo-Norman  Inva- 
sion of  Ireland,  1171 
(Strongbow,  Dermot,  &c.). 

Time  of  Henry  II.  (Eng.)  and 
Eleanor  of  Poitou.  The 
French  Court  and  the 
University  of  Paris  ;  also 
the  Welsh  Borders. 

Oxford,  1159:  Gerhardt  and 
his  mission. 

Ireland,  1170  and  1171.  The 
Wedding  of  Dermot's 
daughter  to  the  Norman 
baron  Strongbow. 

(i)  Kent,  1162-6  (Thomas  a 
Becket). 


(2)  Kent,  1170  (the  murder  of 
Becket). 

Time  of  Thomas  a  Becket. 


Ditto. 


Raggedstone  Hill  (Malvern 
Hills  district).  Story  of  a 
monk  in  the  time  of 
Henry  II.  and  Thomas  a 
Becket. 


a  Good  semi-fictional  history. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
TWELFTH  CENTURY— continued. 


267 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


«FAIR  ROSAMOND  (in 
"  Historical  Vig- 
nettes "). 

A    BOTTLE    IN    THE 
SMOKE 


Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Cooke  Don-Carlos 
(R.    F.    Fenno   & 
U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


THE    LAST    OF    THE  j  Margaret  Mordecai 
FATIMITES  (in  "The       (G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 
Flower  of  Destiny," 
&c.) 


*THE  BRETHREN 


*BETWEEN  Two  CRU- 
SADES.    Juv. 


DE  HELLINGLEY  (in 
"  Stories  of  the 
Crusades").  Juv. 

WINNING  His  SPURS. 
Juv. 


H.  Rider  Haggard 

(Cassell,  Eng.  ;  and 
McClure,  Phillips, 
U.S.A.) 

Gertrude  Hollis 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

J.  M.  Neale 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

j  G.  A.  Henty 

(Sampson  Low  &  Co.) 


*BROTHERS  IN  ARMS. 
Juv. 


F.  Bayford  Harrison 
(Blackie) 


Queen    Eleanor   and    "  Fair 
Rosamond,"  about  1176. 


The  Benedictine  Monastery 
at  Bury  St.  Edmunds  in 
the  Henry  II. — Richard  I. 
period. 

Egypt,  1171. 


England  (Essex)  and  Pales- 
tine. The  Crusades — Sala- 
din,  &c. 

Downfall  of  the  Latin  king- 
dom of  Jerusalem  in  1187 
(Saladin). 

Lewes,  1185,  and  the  East 
(Saladin's  capture  of  Jeru- 
salem in  1187). 

England,  France,  Palestine 
(Third  Crusade),  Germany, 
&c.  Richard  I.,  Philip 
Augustus,  and  Saladin. 
The  Siege  of  Evesham,  and 
Prince  John's  plots,  ending 
with  King  Richard's  return 
in  1194. 

Siege  of  Acre,  &c.  (Third 
Crusade)  ;  also  France, 
England  (Sussex),  and 
Scotland,  1189-99.  Time 
of  Richard  I.,  William  the 
Lion,  and  Philip  Augustus. 


a  The  volume  in  which  this  story  appears,  viz.  Historical  Vignettes,  contains  a  large  number  of 
brief  fictional  sketches  based  on  history  and  legend.  Some  of  the  "  v.'gnettes  "  are  decidedly  blood- 
curdling, others  are  humorous  ;  they  treat  of  many  different  countries  and  periods — First  Century 
Palestine,  England  in  Saxon  and  later  times,  France,  Italy,  &c.  Of  the  twenty-seven  tales  (each 
covering  not  more  than  a  dozen  pages)  ten  are  given  in  my  lists  as  showing  the  author  at  his  best. 


268 


SUPPLEMENT. 
TWELFTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.          !    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


SIR   GUY'S 
Juv. 


TRUST. 


Marion  Andrews 
(Partridge  &  Co.) 


Palestine       and       England 
I       (Knaresborough  Castle)  in 
the  days    of   Richard  I. : 
the    disturbed     state     of 
things  in  his  absence. 


WITH  RICHARD  THE 
FEARLESS.    Juv. 


aLiON  HEART.    Juv. 


WHEN    LION-HEART 
WAS  KING.    Juv. 

THE   NAMESAKE    OF 
THE  KING.    Juv. 


•WESTMINSTER  CLOIS- 
TERS 


THE  WITCH  OF  HUNT- 
INGDON (in  "Faith's 
First    Christmas," 
&c.).     Juv. 


Paul  Creswick 

(E.  Nister;  and  Button, 
U.S.A.) 

H.  Strang  and  R.  Stead 
(Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


Escott  Lynn 
(Blackie) 


Richard  I.,  the  Crusades,  and 
Blondel,  &c. 


England  and  Abroad  (Cru- 
sade, &c.),  1189-99  ;  ends 
with  death  of  Richard  I. 


Robin   Hood,    Prince 
and  Richard  I. 


John, 


A.  M.  Barham  i  Brittany,  1196-8  (Richard  I. 

(Christian  Knowledge  I  of  England,  Prince  John, 
Society,  Eng. ;  and  &c.).  A  little  boy-play- 
Gorham,  U.S.A.)  mate  of  Prince  Arthur  of 

Brittany. 


Mary  Bidder 
(Wells  Gardner) 


I  A  monk-artist  at  West- 
minster in  1193  (Richard 
I.,  Queen  Eleanor,  Prince 
John,  &c.). 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


*£DWIN,     THE     BOY  j  J.  F.  Hodgetts 
OUTLAW.    Juv.  (Partridge  &  Co.) 


*THE  SEVERED  MAN- 
TLE 


William  Lindsey 

(Methuen,  Eng.  ;  and 
Houghton,  Miffiin, 
U.S.A.) 


Stowe    (Lincolnshire),    1199. 
Bishop  Hugh  of  Lincoln. 


England  (Nottingham  dis- 
trict) in  the  end  Twelfth  to 
the  beginning  Thirteenth 
Century  period  (Robin 
Hood,  the  Signing  of  Magna 
Charta,  &c.). 

Provence  and  the  Trouba- 
dours in  the  late  Twelfth 
Century. 


a  One  of  Herbert  Strang's  Historical  Seties. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
TWELFTH  CENTURY— continued. 


269 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


HENRY  DE  POMEROY 


Mrs.  Anna  Eliza  Bray 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


SUBJECT. 


Tavistock,  Berry  Pomeroy, 
and  Dartmoor  district  ; 
also  St.  Michael's  Mount. 
Time  of  Richard  I.  Con- 
tains good  local  colour. 


THIRTEENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  FLAME  GATHER- 
ERS 

A  BOY'S  RIDE.    Juv. 


SIR  SLEEP-AWAKE 
AND  His  BROTHER. 
Juv. 

aWALTER       THE       AR- 
MOURER.    Juv. 


ALAN'S  Vow  (in  "A 
Fair  Haven,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

FOR  CHURCH  AND 
STATE  (Sequel,  in 
same  vol.).  Juv. 

THE    GOOD    SWORD 
BELGARDE.    Juv. 


Margaret  H.  Potter 
(Macmillan) 

Gulielma  Zollinger 
(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 

Grace  I.  Whitham 
(Blackie) 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


A.  C.  Curtis 

(H.  Frowde.andHodder, 
Eng. ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


India  in  1205. 


England  in  the  days  of  King 
John. 

Time  of  King  John  ;  Pales- 
tine (Crusades),  and  Spain 
(the  Moors). 

Norwich  in  the  time  of  King 
John  and  the  Papal  Inter- 
dict. 

(i)  England:  the  Papal  Inter- 
dict, 1213-14 ; 


(2)  Archbishop  Langton  (The 
Charter),  1214-15. 


French  v.  English  in  the  time 
of  King  John  (Siege  of 
Dover,  &c.). 


a  Published  both  separately  aad  in  Vol.  II.  ("  England :   The  Mediaeval  Period  ")  of   Parker's 
Tales  Illustrating  Church  History. 


270  SUPPLEMENT. 

THIRTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER.    ' 


SUBJECT. 


THE       CONSTABLE'S    Charlotte  M.  Yonge  Dover,  Windsor,  &c.,  in  the 

TOWER.     Juv.  (National  Society,  Eng. ;  J      days   of    King    John   and 

andWhittaker.U.S.A.)        Magna  Charta  :    Hugh  de 

Burgh   and    the    Siege   of 

Dover  Castle. 

;  j 

*FRIEDHELM.     Juv.      j  E.  K.  Seth-Smith  j  Germany  and  the  East  (Cru- 

(Christian  Knowledge  ;  sades)  in  the  days  of  the 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and  [  Emperor  Frederick  II., 
Gorham,  U.S.A.)  1202-4.  Lastchapter,i22o. 


SIR  RAOUL.    Juv. 


James  M.  Ludlow 

(Oliphant,   Eng.  ;     and 
Revell,  U.S.A.) 

FREDERICK    OF  Ho-  I  Elbridge  S.  Brooks 
HENSTAUFEN      (in         (Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 


"  Historic  Boys"). 
Juv. 

"CROSS  AND  DAGGER. 
Juv. 


Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


j  The  Fourth  Crusade  (Venice, 
Acre,  Constantinople,  &c.) , 
1203. 

Palermo,   1207  (Boyhood  of 
the  Emperor  Frederick  II.). 


W.  Scott  Durrant 
(Methuen,   Eng.  ; 
Lane,  U.S.A.) 


and 


*THE  SIGN    OF 
UMPH.    Juv. 


TRI- 


THE  CHILDREN'S  CRU- 
SADE.   Juv. 


Sheppard  Stevens 

(Chapman  &  Hall,  Eng.; 
and  Page,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


*ON  THE  FORGOTTEN  j  Henry  Baerlein 
ROAD  (J.  Murray) 


Germany,  1212  (Otto  IV.), 
and  the  Children's  Crusade; 
then  France,  Egypt,  Syria 
(largely),  and  Sicily,  1212- 
22.  "  The  Old  Man  of  the 
Mountain,"  St.  Francis  of 
Assisi,  and  the  Emperor 
Frederick  II. 

France,  1212  ;  the  Children's 
Crusade.  Experiences  dur- 
ing the  march  to  the 
Mediterranean. 

The  "  Crusade  "  of  1212,  and 
what  happened  to  three 
boys — two  English  and  one 
French — among  the  Moors. 

Mainly  France,  1212  (Philip 
Augustus,  and  the  Chil- 
dren's Crusade).  The  later 
portion  of  this  imaginary 
autobiography  covers 
twenty-three  years'  cap- 
tivity in  Egypt,  with  a 
final  glimpse  of  France  in 
1235  (St.  Louis). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
THIRTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


271 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE     DIVINE    MIN- 
STRELS 


THE  HEART'S  KEY 
(in  "  Fond  Adven- 
tures ") 


*THE  ALBIGENSES 


Auguste  Bailly  (trans.) 
(P.  Lee  Warner,  Eng.  ; 
and  Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Umbria,  early  Thirteenth 
Century.  St.  Francis  of 
Assisi  (ends  with  his  death 
in  1224). 


Maurice  Hewlett  j  Southern  France  (Toulouse) 

(Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and        during      the     Albigenses' 


Harper,  U.S.A.) 


Chas.  Robert  Maturin 
(Hurst,   London ;     and 
Constable,  Edinburgh) 


*SiR  WALTER'S  WARD.    William  Everard 
Juv.  (Blackie) 


THE  WANTON  "  Frances  Harrod  " 

(Greening  &  Co.) 


THE   LADY    OF   THE  j  Eleanor  Alexander 

WELL  (E.  Arnold,  Eng.  ;   and 

Longmans,  U.S.A.) 


persecution,     early 
teenth  Century. 


Thir- 


France  under  Philip  Augus- 
tus, 1216.  The  Albigenses 
in  Languedoc. 

Germany  (Thuringia)  and  the 
East  during  the  Crusades. 
The  Emperor  Frederick  II. 
crowned  "  King  of  Jeru- 
salem "  in  1228,  &c. 

Germany  in  the  days  of  the 
Emperor  Frederick  II. 
The  straggle  with  the  Pope 
— Council  of  Lyons  ;  the 
Saracens,  &c. 

Italy  in  the  fifth  decade  of 
the  Thirteenth  Century. 
Time  of  Emperor  Frede- 
rick II.  and  Pope  Innocent 
II. 


A  SON  OF  THE  EM-  i  Newton  V.  Stewart 
PEROR  (Methuen  &  Co.) 


*THE    ROUT   OF   THE 
FOREIGNER.    Juv. 


Gulielma  Zollinger 
(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 


:  Enzio,  King  of  Sardinia 
(natural  son  of  the  Em- 
peror Frederick  II.),  mid- 
Thirteenth  Century. 

Bedfordshire,  the  Midlands, 
and  London,  1223-24 
(Henry  III.).  Archbishop 
Langton  figures  promi- 
nently. Tale  ends  with 
Siege  of  Bedford  Castle. 


272  SUPPLEMENT. 

THIRTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


A  FRIAR  OF  ORDERS 
GREY  (in  "  The 
Peace  of  the 
Church,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

WRITER  AND  FIGHT- 
ER (Sequel,  in  same 
vol.).  Juv. 

THE  KING'S  GUIDE 


A  ROYAL  ROAD.  Juv. 


THE  HOUSE  OF  WAL- 
DERNE.    Juv. 


*THE    LION    OF    DE 

MONTFORT.      Juv. 


*THE  RED  SAINT 


KING  OF  THE  BARONS 


*DE  MONTFORT'S 
SQUIRE.    Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


Naunton  Covertside  " 
(Simpkin  &  Co.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.  A.) 

A.  D.  Crake 

(Longmans) 


Roland  Home 
(Dent  &  Co.) 


Warwick  Deeping 
(Cassell) 


J.  F.  Waight 
(Sisleys,  Ltd.) 

Frederick  Harrison 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


(i)  Oxford  about  1225  (Gros- 
seteste). 


(2)  Grosseteste  as  Bishop  of 
Lincoln,  1246. 


London  (the  Tower),  Kenil- 
worth,  and  Wales  in  1243 
and  the  years  just  follow- 
ing :  Prince  Llewelyn, 
Simon  de  Montfort,  &c. 

England,  1247  (Henry  III.) 
and  Egypt,  1249  (the  8th 
Crusade,  led  by  St.  Louis). 

Sussex ;  also  Kenilworth, 
Oxford,  &c.,  1253-64.  The 
Barons'  Wars,  ending  with 
Battle  of  Lewes. 

Time  of  the  Barons'  Wars, 
ending  with  the  Battle  of 
Lewes,  1264  (Hereford, 
Gloucester,  London,  Roch- 
ester, and  Lewes). 

Time  of  De  Montfort ;  Kent 
and  Sussex,  during  the 
Barons'  Wars  (Battle  of 
Lewes). 

Simon  de  Montfort  (Battles 
of  Lewes  and  Evesham). 

Sussex,  1264-5  (Battles  of 
Lewes  and  Evesham) .  In- 
troduces Simon  de  Mont- 
fort, Roger  Bacon,  Prince 
Edward,  &c. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
THIRTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


273 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF    Sheila  E.  Braine 
HUMFREY     CHAT-  |      (Nister,     Eng. ; 


and 


TERIS.       JUV. 


*  RALPH  THE  OUTLAW. 
Juv. 


PRINCESS  ADELAIDE. 
Juv. 


Button,  U.S.A.) 


Mrs.  H.  Clarke 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 


SIR  VALDEMAR  THE    Josephine  Fotheringhame 


GANGER.     Juv. 


FALAISE  OF  THE 
BLESSED  VOICE 

THE  CRUSADE  OF  ST. 
Louis  (in  "  Stories 
of  the  Crusades  "). 
Juv. 

A  SLAVE  OF  THE 
SARACEN.  Juv. 

*THE  ORIFLAMME  IN 
EGYPT 


*ARNOUL    THE    ENG- 
LISHMAN 


(S.  Low  &  Co.) 


W.  Stearns  Davis 
(Macmillan) 


SUBJECT. 


Boyish  adventures,  1265  ; 
Roger  Mortimer,  Guy  de 
Montfort,  &c.  Prince 
Edward  a  prisoner  in 
Hereford  Castle  ;  and  the 
Battle  of  Evesham. 

East  Coast,  London,  Oxford, 
&c.,  in  the  days  of  Henry 
III.  and  De  Montfort 
(Prince  Edward  at  Wind- 
sor). 

England  (London,  Windsor, 
&c.)  in  the  Henry  III. — 
Edward  I.  period  (mostly 
1264-7).  An  Italian  Prin- 
cess, niece  of  Queen  Eleo- 
nore  ;  the  Siege  of  Kenil- 
worth. 

Alexander  III.  of  Scotland, 
and  his  victory  over  Haco 
V.  of  Norway  at  Largs,  in 
1263. 

The  Youth  of  St.  Louis,  King 
of  France. 


J.  M.  Neale  France    and   the  East   (the 

(Christian      Knowledge  I      Eighth  Crusade,  1248-54). 

Society,   Eng. ;    and 

Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


Gertrude  Hollis 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

C.  H.  Butcher,  D.D. 
(Dent  &  Co.) 


Francis  Aveling 
(Methuen) 


France  and  the  East  (the 
Crusade  under  St.  Louis 
from  1248). 

St.  Louis  in  Egypt,  1249-50  ; 
also  England  (Wilts)  under 
Henry  III. ;  Matthew 
Paris,  &c. 

Time  of  Henry  III.  of  Eng- 
land, and  of  St.  Louis  of 
France.  The  University 
of  Paris  (Regularists  v. 
Secularists ;  Aquinas,  &c.) 


274  SUPPLEMENT. 

THIRTEENTH  CENTURA— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


«THE  SEA-TIGERS.  Juv. 


CASTEL  DEL  MONTE 


PROVENZANO 
PROUD 


*THE  BOY  AND  THE 
BARON.    Juv. 


*SAN  CELESTINO 


FLORESTANE    THE 
TROUBADOUR 


*THE  GOD  OF  LOVE 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


SUBJECT. 


Christians  in  Asia  about  1251 
(The  Nestorian  Church) . 


Nathan  Gallizier  Palermo — Guelph  v.  Ghibel- 

(Dean,  Eng. ;  and  Page,  i      line.     The  fall  of  the  Ho- 


&THE  ORPHAN  OF  EVE- 
SHAM.    Juv. 


U.S.A.) 


Evelyn  H.  Gifford 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


Adeline  Knapp 
(Century  Co.) 


J.  Ayscough 

(Smith,    Elder,    Eng.  ; 
and  Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


Julia  de  Wolf  Addison 
(Dana  Estes  &  Co.) 


Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(Hurst  &  Blackett.Eng.; 
and  Harper,  U.S.A.) 


H.  C.  Adams 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


henstaufen  Dynasty  in 
Italy  (Battle  of  Benevento, 
1266). 

Italy,  1268  onwards.  The 
struggle  between  Siena  and 
Florence ;  the  Battls  of 
Tagliacozzo,  &c. 

Germany,  about  1260-80. 
The  robber  knights,  and 
their  suppression  by  Ru- 
dolf I.  of  Hapsburg. 

The  career — from  boyhood 
to  death — of  Pietro  di 
Murrone  (121 5-96) ,  who 
founded  the  Celestines,  and 
became  Pope  in  1294  as 
"  Celestine  V.,"  for  five 
months. 

S.  France  (chiefly)  and  Italy, 
about  the  year  1270.  Cima- 
bue,  the  Painter,  is  intro- 
duced, while  there  are 
glimpses  of  Dante  (as 
little  boy)  and  of  Sordello. 

Florence  about  1290.  Dante 
and  Beatrice  (supposed 
narration  by  a  friend  of  the 
poet). 

Battle  of  Evesham,  1265 
(Henry  III.)  ;  then  the 
Welsh  War,  1282  (Edward 
I.).  The  prejudices  of  the 
age  against  the  Jews. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Asia  and  Africa  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 

b  In  Vol.  III.  of  Parker's  Tales  Illustrating  Church  History  :  not  published  separately. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
THIRTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


275 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

aA  FORGOTTEN  HERO  ; 
OR,  NOT  FOR  HIM. 
Juv. 

Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 

Edmund,  Earl  of  Cornwall, 
1290-8  (Cornwall  andBerk- 
hampstead)  . 

a  Formerly  entitled  "  Not  for  Him :  the  Story  of  a  Forgotten  Hero." 


FOURTEENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


PRENTICE  HUGH.  Juv. 


A  LADY  OF  FRANCE 


*THE  DRYAD 


BERTRAND  DUGUE- 
SCLIN  (in  "  Contes 
Historiques").  Juv. 


IN  NORTHERN  SEAS. 
Juv. 

DUDLEY  CASTLE 


Frances  Mary  Peard 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


B.  Symonds 

(Stanley  Paul  &  Co.) 


Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(Methuen) 


Madame  Eugenie  Foa 
(Williams    &    Norgate, 
1886 ;     and     various 
French  publishers) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Chris  G.  Gardner 
(A.  H.  Stockwell) 


London  and  Exeter  in  the 
last  years  of  Edward  I. 
(Bishop  Bitten  and  Exeter 
Cathedral  in  1303). 

Paris  at  the  beginning  of  the 
Fourteenth  Century.  Time 
of  Philippe  le  Bel. 

French  Knights  in  Greece 
(Athens)  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Fourteenth  Century. 
Time  of  Philippe  le  Bel. 

Rennes,  early  Fourteenth 
Century. 


Venice  and  the  Faroe  Is- 
lands, &c.,  early  Four- 
teenth Century. 

England  (mostly  Midland 
districts)  in  the  time  of 
Edward  II.  Thomas,  Earl 
of  Lancaster  ;  Roger  Mor- 
timer ;  and  other  historical 
characters,  including  the 
King  and  Queen. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FOURTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*THE  GLORY  AND  SOR- 
ROW OF  NORWICH. 
Juv. 


HUGH  THE  MESSEN- 
GER.   Juv. 


WITH     THE     BLACK 
PRINCE.    Juv. 


aWiTH     THE     BLACK 
PRINCE.    Juv. 


THE  LADY  ALDA'S 
PILGRIMAGE  (in 
"  The  Shepherd 
Prior,"  &c.)  Juv. 

THE  ABBOT'S  BRIDGE. 
Juv. 


*BRAKESPEARE 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


fc*SiR  NIGEL 


M.  M.  Blake  j  Edward  III.  and  the  Black 

(Jarrold)  Prince  at  Norwich  in  1340. 

j      Then  the  French  Wars,  the 

Plague   in    Norwich,    &c., 

1340-50. 

Gertrude  Hollis  Time  of  Edward  III.,  1344- 

(Christian  Knowledge  j  47.  Norwich,  London, 
Society,  Eng. ;  and  i  Ghent,  and  Calais  (Siege) — 
Gorham,  U.S.A.)  introducing  the  Black 

Prince,  Van  Artevelde,  &c. 


W.  O.  Stoddard 
(Appleton) 


H.  Strang  and  K.  Stead 
(Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


Frances  Mary  Peard 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A. ) 

George  Alfred  Lawrence 
(Routledge) 


A.  Conan  Doyle 

(Smith,    Elder,    Eng. ; 
and  McClure,  U.S.A.) 


England  (Warwickshire)  in 
the  time  of  Edward  III. ; 
also  the  FrenchWar  (Battle 
of  Crecy,  1346). 

England  and  France,  1338— 
76  ;  the  Sack  of  Southamp- 
ton ;  Battles  of  Cressy  and 
Poictiers,  &c. 

Canterbury  Pilgrims  in  1347. 


Bury  St.  Edmunds  in  1347. 


England  and  France  in  the 
time  of  Edward  III.  and 
the  Black  Prince ;  the 
winning  of  Calais,  1346-47, 
and  the  Battle  of  Poictiers, 
1356.  The  Free  Com- 
panions. 

Time  of  Edward  III.,  begin- 
ning 1348.  The  French 
War,  covering  Calais  and 
Poictiers  (1356). 


a  One  of  Herbert  Strongs  Historical  Series. 

b  This  book  deals  with  the  youth  of  "  Sir  Nigel."    Conan  Doyle's  "  The  White  Company  "  (vid» 
p.  39)  depicts  him  c.  1366-67. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FOURTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


277 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE    RED 

Juv. 


KNIGHT. 


G.  I.  Whitham 
(Blackie) 


THE     MISTRESS 
AYDON 


OF    R.  H.  Forster 
(J-  Long) 


•MINSTREL  DICK.  Juv. 


Christabel  R.  Coleridge 
(Gardner) 


*BERTRAND  OF  BRIT-  '  Warwick  Deeping 
TANY  (Harper) 


UNDER  THE  FLAG  OF 
FRANCE.    Juv. 

THE  SWORD  DECIDES 


David  Ker 
(Blackie) 

"  Marjorie  Bowen  " 
(Alston      Rivers,      and 
Greening,  Eng. ;  and 
McClure,  U.S.A.) 


JEHANNE     OF     THE    Frances  G.  Knowles- 
GOLDEN  LIPS  Foster 

(Mills    &   Boon,   Eng.  ; 
and  J.  Lane,  U.S.A.) 


FELICITA 


•SlNGOALLA 


ISLAND  OF  EN- 
CHANTMENT 


"  Christopher  Hare  " 
(Harper) 


:  Viktor  Rydberg  (trans.) 
(Walter  Scott) 

Justus  M.  Forman 
(Harper) 


SUBJECT. 


England  (Windsor,  &c.)  in 
the  second  half  of  Edward 
III.;  Black  Prince,  Sir 
John  Chandos,  and  other 
historic  figures. 

Northumberland  in  the  later 
period  of  Edward  III. 

Herts  (Berkhampstead)  in  the 
last  days  of  the  Black 
Prince  ;  also  Chelsea  and 
London.  Ends  with  the 
Prince's  death,  1376. 

Bertrand  du  Guesclin — his 
earlier  days. 

Bertrand  du  Guesclin,  the 
Moors  in  Spain,  &c. 

Giovanna  of  Naples,  1343-4. 
Plague,  &c. 


Naples,  1343-45  ;  Queen  Je- 
hanne  of  Sicily,  Andrea  of 
Hungary,  and  Louis  of 
Taranto.  Boccaccio  ap- 
pears. 

Siena  in  mid-Fourteenth  Cen- 
tury. The  Black  Death 
period,  1348. 

Sweden  (Plague  background) 
about  1350. 

Venice,  but  mainly  Arbe  (one 
of  the  N.  Dalmatian  is- 
lands) in  1355 :  time  of 
Lewis  of  Hungary's  attack. 


cood. 


a  A  slight  but  vivid  love-story ;   the  illustrations  in  colour  by  Howard  Pyle   are  exceptionally 


278  SUPPLEMENT. 

FOURTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE  DISCIPLE  OF  A 

SAINT 


*THE  LOVE  STORY  OF 
ST.  BEL 

HAWKWOOD         THE 
BRAVE.     Juv. 


THE  VIPER  OF  MILAN 


*ARETHUSA 


Vida  D.  Scudder 
(Dent  &  Co.) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Methuen) 

William  Beck 
(Blackie) 


Marjorie  Bowen  " 
(Alston    Rivers,    Eng. ; 
and  McClure,  U.S.A.) 


F.  Marion  Crawford 
(Macmillan) 


THE  WHITE  LADY  OF  j  Emily  S.  Holt 
HAZELWOOD.     Juv.       (J.  F.  Shaw) 


DEARER  THAN  LIFE. 
Juv. 


"'TWIXT 

NEW. 


OLD 
Juv. 


AND 


Emma  Leslie 
(Religious  Tract  Society) 


SUBJECT. 


St.  Catharine  of  Siena.  An 
imaginary  biography  of  an 
historical  person.  Siena  in 
Plague  Time ;  the  Papal 
Court  at  Avignon,  &c. 

Siena,  1374  (time  of  St. 
Catharine). 

The  Free  Companions  in 
Italy,  under  Sir  John 
Hawkwood,  late  Four- 
teenth Century  ;  Gian  Vis- 
conti  of  Milan,  &c. 

Gian  Galeazzo  Visconti,  Duke 
of  Milan,  and  his  wars  with 
the  free  towns  of  N.  Italy, 
late  Fourteenth  Century. 

Constantinople  in  1376. 


London  and  Herts,  1372—4  : 
Margaret,  Countess  of 
Montfort. 

Oxfordshire  and  London,  &c., 
in  the  time  of  Wycliffe, 
1366-84. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
andWhittaker,U.S.A.)  j 


Time  of  William  of  Wykeham, 
Chaucer,  Langland,  &c., 
1377-81,  and  1393. 


THE     WARDSHIP     OF 

STEEPCOMBE.  Juv. 


THE  ACCOLADE 


Charlotte  M.  Yonge  Winchester,  London,  &c.,  in 

(National  Society,  Eng.;  !      the  days  of  Wycliffe  and 


and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


C.  E.  D.  Phelps 
(Lippincott) 


William  of  Wykeham. 
Ends  with  the  Peasants' 
Revolt. 

Chaucer,  the  poet. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FOURTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


279 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  FEN  ROBBERS. 
Juv. 


THE  DUKE'S  WARD. 
Juv. 


To  THE   SHRINE   OF 
ST.  TRUTH.     Juv. 


*THE  SEVEN  NIGHTS 


*  PHILIP    OKEOVER'S 
PAGEHOOD.     Juv. 


RED     DICKON,     THE 
OUTLAW.     Juv. 

*A  DREAM  OF  JOHN 
BALL 


«ALICE   OF   FOBBING. 
Juv. 

SUZANNE 


DE  Foix 


Tom  Bevan 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Dora  M.  Jones 
(Oliphant) 


E.  K.  Seth-Smith 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Marion  Fox 
(Elliot  Stock) 


Gertrude  Hollis 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


Tom  Bevan 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

William  Morris 
(Longmans) 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 

Valentina  Hawtrey 
(J.  Murray) 


Mrs.  Anna  Eliza  Bray 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


SUBJECT. 


England  in  1377  (Cambridge, 
London,  Essex  Fens,  Lin- 
colnshire, &c.).  Will 
Langland  and  the  peasants. 

Kent,  1377-81  (Simon  of 
Sudbury,  and  the  Peasants' 
Revolt). 

London  and  Chillingley 
(Surrey)  in  1381  :  William 
Langland. 


Opens  in  Brittany ;  then 
England  (Kent)  and  Wat 
Tyler's  Rising. 

Northamptonshire  and  Lon- 
don just  before  and  during 
the  Peasants' Revolt(Geoff- 
rey  Chaucer,  Simon  of 
Sudbury,  and  the  Peasant 
leaders). 

The  Peasants'  Revolt  — Wat 
Tyler  and  John  Ball. 

Kent  in  the  days  of  the 
Peasant  Revolt  (John  Ball, 
Jack  Straw,  Wat  Tyler, 
&c.). 

England,  1381-2  (The  Peas- 
ants' Revolt). 

France,  1362  ;  then  about 
twenty  years  later — time 
of  Charles  VI.  and  the 
Flemish  War. 

Southern  France  in  late 
Fourteenth  Century  (Gas- 
ton  de  Foix  up  to  his 
death  in  1391). 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  II.  ("  England  :    The  Mediaeval  Period  ")  of  Parker's 
Tales  Illustrating  Church  History. 


280 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FOURTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THB  CLOISTER  OF  THE 
SEVEN  GATES  (in 
"  Chivalric  Days  "). 
Juv. 

a*  UNDER  ONE  SCEP- 
TRE ;  OR  MORTI- 
MER'S MISSION. 
Juv. 

A  MASTER  BUILDER 
(in  "A  Fair 
Haven,"  &c.).  Juv. 

*DAME  JOAN  OF  PE- 
VENSEY.  JUV. 


IAN  OF  THE  ORCADES. 
Juv. 


*THE  NEW  JUNE 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


Emily  S.  Holt 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.  A.) 

E.  E.  Crake 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A. 


PATCOLA 


Wilfred  Campbell 
(Oliphant,   Eng.  ; 
Revell,  U.S.A.) 


Henry  Newbolt 
(Blackwood) 


and 


Ena  Fitzgerald 
(Greening) 


Servia  in  1389. 


Roger  Mortimer,  Fourth  Earl 
of  March  and  Ulster.  Usk 
(Monmouthshire),  Ireland, 
and  London, 1373-99. 

Winchester,  1390-4  (time  of 
the  Black  Death). 


Sussex  Coast,  1390-9:  John 
of  Gaunt,  &c.  ;  ends  with 
the  coming  of  Bolingbroke. 


Scotland  (Castle  Girnigoe, 
Caithness)  at  the  end  of  the 
Fourteenth  Century.  Time 
of  Robert  III. 

England  (Richard  II. — Henry 
IV.),  and  France,  Italy,  &c. 
The  founding  of  Mount 
Grace  Priory  (Yorks)  in 
1396;  various  historical 
figures  are  introduced,  and 
the  book  ends  with  the 
Battle  of  Shrewsbury, 
1403. 

A  story  of  Vijayanagar,  a 
city  in  Southern  India, 
founded  1336.  The  period 
covered  is  between  the 
Fourteenth  Century  and 
the  Sixteenth.  Supposed 
to  be  related  by  a  hermit 
to  a  young  Englishman  in 
the  first  years  of  the 
Seventeenth  Century. 


a  Formerly  entitled,  "  The  Lord  of  the  Marches  ;  or,  The  Story  of  Roger  Mortimer." 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH  CENTURY. 


281 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


MISTRESS  MARGERY.    Emily  S.  Holt 
Juv.  (J.  F.  Shaw) 


MEN  OF  IRON.     Juv. 


HARRY  OFMONMOUTH 
(in  "Historic 
Boys  ").  Juv. 

*  HARRY  OF  ATHOL 


*  HEARTS  OF  WALES 


THE  SPURS  OF  GOLD. 
Juv. 


THE  BLACKSMITH  OF 
BONIFACE  LANE. 
Juv. 

KINSMAN  AND  NAME- 
SAKE. Juv. 


*FATHER         FELIX'S 
CHRONICLES 


PERRONELLE 


Howard  Pyle 

(Osgood,     Eng. ;      and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

R.  H.  Forster 
(J.  Long) 


"  Allen  Raine  " 
(Hutchinson) 

J.  Brown  Morgan  and  J. 

Rogers  Freeman 
(A.  Melrosc) 


"  A.  L.  O.  E." 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


R.  Stead 
(Blackie) 


Nora  Chesson 

(Unwin,     Eng.  ;      and 
Wessels,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


England  (Oxfordshire),  1395- 
1401.  William  Sastre  and 
Archbishop  Arundel.  Last 
chapter,  Henry  V.,  1415. 

England  in  1400 ;  also  in 
1408-18  (Henry  IV. — 
Henry  V.  period). 

Berkhampstead  Castle,  and 
the  Welsh  Marches,  1402 
(Henry  V.'s  boyhood). 

Northumberland,  1402  (Hot- 
spur, and  the  struggles 
with  the  Percys). 

Owen  Glendower  and  the 
Welsh  Rebellion. 

Dunstable  Priory,  Shrews- 
bury, &c.,  1394  and  1402— 
3  ;  the  Lollards  ;  and  the 
Welsh  War  (Hotspur  and 
Glendower). 

London  in  the  time  of  Henry 
IV. :  Prince  Hal  and  John 
Badby,  the  Lollard. 

Yorkshire  in  the  time  of 
Henry  IV. :  Archbishop 
Scrope's  conspiracy. 

Norfolk  (Norwich  Priory)  in 
the  time  of  Henry  IV.  An 
imaginary  monk's  story, 
reflecting  the  mysticism  of 
the  period,  and  introducing 
several  historic  figures. 


Valentina  Hawtrey 
(J.  Lant) 


;  Bourgeois  life  in  Paris,  1400. 


282 


SUPPLEMENT. 


FIFTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  KING  OF  A  DAY. 
Juv. 


THE  LAST  DAYS  OF 
JOHN  Hus 


Florence  Wilford 
(Masters) 


i  France  (Paris,  &c.),  1404-10  : 
Charles  VI.  period.  Then 
— last  chapter — nineteen 
years  later :  Joan  of  Arc, 
1429. 

Anonymous     (trans,     by    A  semi-fictional  account  of 
Prof.  W.  R.  Morfill)    !      the  trial  and  martyrdom  of 
(Religious  Tract  Society) |      Hus,  1414-15. 

"CRUSHED   YET  CON-    Deborah  Alcock  j  Part  I. — The  council  of  Con- 

QUERING.     Juv.  (Religious  Tract  Society)!      stance  and  John  Hus  (his 

death),  1415;  Part  II.— 
Bohemia  (the  Hussites), 
1415-29. 


^MARK'S 
Juv. 


WEDDING. 


H.  C.  Adams 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


THE  ARCHER,  i  Herbert  Strang  and  John 
Juv.  Aston 

(Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


*JENKYN     CLYFFE,      |  Gertrude  Hollis 

BEDESMAN.  Juv.  \  (Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


SQUIRE    AND 
Juv. 


PAGE.    G.  I.  Whitham 
(Blackie) 


THE    WHITE    STAN- 
DARD.    Juv. 


Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Blackie) 


Kent,  1413  (time  of  Henry 
V.).  The  Lollards  and  Sir 
John  Oldcastle  (Lord  Cob- 
ham),  ending  with  the 
latter's  death  in  1417. 

England  and  France,  1414- 
22 :  Henry  V.  at  Agin- 
court,  &c.,  ending  with  his 
death. 

An  old  man  relates  (1440)  his 
former  experiences  under 
Henry  V.  Treats  of  Henry, 
first  as  Prince  in  1409,  then 
as  King  from  1413;  the 
French  Wars  (Agincourt 
and  Normandy). 

Henry  V.'s  camp  at  South- 
ampton, &c.  ;  plots  before 
the  King's  departure  for 
France. 

Scotland  (Court  of  James  I.), 
and  France  (Charles  VII. 
and  Joan  of  Arc). 


a  In  Vol.  III.  of  Parker's  Tales  Illustrating  Church  History  ;  not  published  separately. 
b  One  of  Herbert  Strang's  Historical  Series. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*THE    FLOWER    OF 
FRANCE 


*  JOAN  THE  MAID.  Juv. 


A       HEROINE       OF 
FRANCE.     Juv. 


*'f  HE  DAYS  OF  JEANNE 
D'ARC.     Juv. 


*LES  GENS  D'EPINAL 


CATHARINE  DOUGLAS 


*A  KING'S  TRAGEDY 


*MAID  MARGARET 


*WENZEL'S    INHERI- 
TANCE.    Juv. 


THE  NEW  MOON  OF 
ISLAM  (in  "  The 
Flower  of  Destiny," 

ate.) 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(Hurst,      Eng.  ;       and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Rundle  Charles 
(Christian     Knowledge 
Society,    Eng. ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Mary  H.  Catherwood 
(Gay,  Eng.  ;    and  Cen- 
tury Co.,  U.S.A.) 


R.  Auvray 

(Armand  Colin  et  Cie, 
Paris) 

Rachel  Willard 
(Jarrold) 


May  Wynne  " 
(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


S.  R.  Crockett 

(Hodder,     Eng. ;      and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 


Annie  Lucas 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Margaret  Mordecai 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


The  career  of  Joan  of  Arc. 


Cornish  Coast,  1415  and 
later ;  then  France  and 
Joan  of  Arc  (her  trial  and 
death),  1429-31. 

Joan  of  Arc ;  the  chief 
events  from  her  "  vision  " 
to  her  death. 

Last  three  years  of  the  Maid's 
life,  1429-31.  Charles  VII.. 
Yolande,  Dowager  Queen 
of  Sicily,  Agnes  Sorel,  &c. 

France  under  Charles  VII., 
in  period  1423-44. 


Scotland,  1436.  Earl  Doug- 
las, and  James  I.'s  assassi- 
nation in  1437. 

Scotland,  1436-7.  James  I.'s 
assassination ;  Catherine 
Douglas,  &c. 

Scotland  (Galloway)  in  James 
II.  period.  Conflict  be- 
tween the  Stuarts  and  the 
Douglases. 

Bohemia,  1434  ;  the  Battle- 
field of  Lipan  ;  then — 
more  than  twenty  years 
on — the  Picards  (Prague, 
&c.). 

The  Balkans  in  1444  (Hun- 
garians v.  Turks). 


284 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE    LEOPARD    AND  \  "  Marjorie  Bowen  "  Brittany  in  1444. 

THE  LILY  (Doubleday,  Page  &  Co.)| 


OUR  LADY  OF  BEAUTY'  "  Lucas  Cleeve  " 

(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


MARTIN  THE  MUMMER 


*A  LODGING  FOR  THE 
NIGHT  (in  "  New 
Arabian  Nights.") 

ONEEDLES  AND  PlNS 


Dorothy  Margaret  Stuart 
(Constable) 


R.  L.  Stevenson 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(Hurst,    Eng. ;     and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 


RIDOLFO  :  THE  COM-    Egerton  R.  Williams,  Jun. 
ING  OF  THE  DAWN  I      (A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 


*THE     ROMAN 
DENTS 


STU-    Deborah  Alcock 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


*SIGISMONDO      PAN  - 
DOLFO  MALATESTA 


Edward  Hutton 
(Dent  &  Co.) 


ROMANCE  OF  FRA  A.  J.  Anderson 
FILIPPO  LIPPI  (Ro-  j  (Stanley  Paul, 
mance  of  a  Friar  i  and  Dodd, 
and  a  Nun)  U.S.A.) 


Eng.; 
Mead, 


Charles  VII.  of  France  and 
Agnes  Sorel,  1450. 

Burgundy  in  the  year  1451  : 
Duke  Philip  the  Good,  and 
his  wife  Isabel  of  Portugal ; 
Adolf  de  Cleves ;  and 
numerous  real  characters. 

A  story  of  Frangois  Villon  in 
1456. 


Poitou  in  the  time  of  Louis 
XL:  Villon's  Courtship 
and  Marriage. 

Italy  (Perugia)  in  the  Early 
Renaissance  period. 

Italy  (Venice,  Rome,  &c ) 
early  to  late  Fifteenth  Cen- 
tury. Time  of  Popes  Pius 
II.  and  Paul  II. ;  also 
Pomponius  Laetus,  i  c. 
The  Humanists  and  Re- 
ligion on  the  eve  of  the 
Reformation.  Ends.Sotith- 
ern  France. 

A  semi-fictional  account  of 
the  Italian  despot,  Sigis- 
mondo  Malatesta  (Rimini 
in  mid-Fifteenth  Century). 

The  love  story  of  the  artist, 
presented  as  a  novel : 
Prato  and  Florence,  be- 
ginning 1456. 


a  Sequel  to  "  If  I  were  King  "  (vide  p.  44). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


285 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE     HISTORY     OF 
RICHARD  RAYNAL 


HELD  BY  REBELS. 
Juv. 


*BRAZENHEAD  THE 
GREAT  (in  "  Fond 
Adventures  ") 

THE  QUEEN'S  BADGE. 

Juv. 


*THK  QUEEN'S  MAN. 
Juv. 


MAGIC  CASEMENTS 


THE  HERD  BOY  AND 
His  HERMIT.  Juv. 


THE  MEN  OF  HARLECH 


MARGARET  OF  ANJOU 
(in  "  Historic  Vig- 
nettes ") 


Robert  Hugh  Benson 
(Sir  Isaac  Pitman) 


Tom  Bevan 
(Collins) 


Maurice  Hewlett 

(Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Frances  M.  Wilbraham 
(Milner,  London) 


Eleanor  C.  Price 
(Constable  &  Co.) 


Arthur  S.  Cripps 
(Duckworth) 


Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Wirt  Gerrare  " 
(Ward  &  Downey) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


SUBJECT. 


Fifteenth  Century  Quietism : 
Henry  VI.,  Cardinal  Beau- 
fort, &c. 

England  (Kent)  in  1450 : 
Jack  Cade's  march  on 
London. 

The  Pilgrim's  Way  to  Can- 
terbury in  1450  (Jack 
Cade's  Rebellion). 

Cheshire,  London,  &c.,  1455- 
6 1  (Queen  Margaret  and 
the  Wars  of  the  Roses, 
covering  various  battles  of 
the  period) . 

Wars  of  the  Roses  from  1460  : 
the  Battles  of  Wakefield, 
St.  Albans,  &c.  (Henry  VI. 
and  Queen  Margaret). 

Several  short  stories  dealing 
with  life  in  Sussex  and 
Essex  in  1460-1,  and  in 
1471. 

Cumberland  in  the  Wars  of 
the  Roses  period,  about 
1461-71  (Henry  VI.  and 
Queen  Margaret). 

Wales  in  the  Henry  VI. — 
Edward  IV.  period,  from 
1460.  Wars  of  the  Roses 
and  the  Siege  of  Harlech 
Castle  (Queen  Margaret, 
King  Edward,  &c.). 

Queen  Margaret  in  1463. 


286 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*Ix        STEEL 
LEATHER 


JANE  SHORE 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


R.  H.  Forster 
(J.  Long) 


J.  E.  Muddock 
(J-  Long) 


SIR    ROLAND    FREE-  I  Frank  Curzon  Britten 


DEROY.     Juv. 


THE  KING  WHO  WAS 
NEVER  CROWNED. 
Juv. 


UNDER     THE     RED 
ROSE.    Juv. 


THE  LUCK  OF  CHERVIL 
Juv. 

tfTHE  WHITE  ROSE  OF 
LYNDEN.    Juv. 


*BEATRIX  OF  CLARE 


*A    KNIGHT   OF   THE 
WHITE  CROSS.  Juv. 


(Religious  Tract  Society 


Gertrude  Hollis 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


Escott  Lynn 
(Cassell) 


H.  Elrington 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

H.  C.  Adams 
(Parker,  Oxford) 


J.  R.  Scott 

(E.  Grant  Richards, 
Eng. ;  andLippincott, 
U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,  Eng. ;  and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Northumberland  in  the  Wars 
of  the  Roses  (Henry  VI. — 
Edward  IV.)  :  Queen  Mar- 
garet, &c. 

A  tale  based  on  the  chief 
events  of  Jane  Shore's  life. 

England  (Edward  IV.)  ; 
France  (Louis  XI.)  ;  and 
England  (Richard  III.). 
Ends  with  the  Battle  of 
Bosworth,  1485. 

London,  in  1483  :  the  murder 
of  the  Princes  in  the  Tower. 
Prince  Edward,  Richard 
III.,  &c.  Last  chapter, 
1499  (Henry  VII.). 

England  (Herefordshire,  Lon- 
don, &c.),  1483-85.  Earl 
Rivers,  the  Princes  and 
their  murder,  Richard  III., 
and  Henry  VII.  ;  ends  with 
Battle  of  Bosworth. 

Wars  of  the  Roses,  1476-95 
(Richard  III.,  &c.). 

Oxford  and  Kent  in  Richard 
III.'s  time  (John  Colet, 
&c.)  ;  the  suppression  of 
the  Bible  in  English. 

Richard  III.,  1482-3.  The 
romance  presents  him  in  a 
favourable  light. 


England  and  Abroad,  1470- 
80  (Battle  of  Tewkesbury, 
&c. ;  and  the  First  Siege  of 
Rhodes). 


a  In  Vol.  III.  of  Parker's  Tales  Illustrating  Church  History  ;  not  published  separately. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*JOAN  OF  THE  SWORD 
HAND 


YOLANDA,   MAID   OF 
BURGUNDY 


RETZ 


MARCELLE  THE  MAD 


*THE    DUKE'S    VEN- 
GEANCE 


*THE  Swiss  HEROES. 
Juv. 


THE  PRIOR  OF  ST. 
COME  (in  "  Historic 
Vignettes  ") 

*A     JAY     OF     ITALY 
(Bembo) 


*RICHARD  HAWKWOOD 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


S.  R.  Crockett 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  Major 
(Macmillan) 


Van  Zo  Post 

(McClure  Co.,  New  York) 


Seth  Cook  Comstock 
(Appleton) 


Michael  Kaye 
(Greening) 


A.  A.  Willys  (trans.) 
(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Methuen,    Eng.  ; 
Button,  U.S.A.) 

H.  N.  Maugham 
(Blackwood) 


and 


Germany      about      1470-80 
(Pope  Sixtus  IV.,  &c.). 


Styria,  &c.,  about  the  1470- 
80  period.  Time  of  Louis 
XI.  (France),  of  Edward 
IV.  (England),  and  of 
Charles  the  Bold,  Duke  of 
Burgundy. 

Adventures  in  Flanders  and 
France  in  the  time  of 
Charles  the  Bold. 

France  in  the  time  of  Louis 
XI.  and  Charles  the  Bold 
of  Burgundy  (the  Duke's 
Court,  &c.). 

Louis  XI.  of  France.  Bor- 
deaux, Amboise,  &c.  (Duke 
Charles  of  Burgundy,  the 
Due  de  Guienne,  &c.). 

Charles  the  Bold  from  1473  to 
his  defeat  and  death  at 
Nancy  in  1477  (Basle, 
Treves,  &c. — The  Swiss 
Confederation) . 

Louis  XI.  of  France  in  the 
year  1473. 


Milan,  1476  (Galeazzo  Sforza) 


Italy,  1477 :  Lorenzo  de' 
Medici.  Various  figures  of 
the  period  are  introduced, 
including  Leonardo  da 
Vinci  and  Sandro  Botti- 
celli. 


288 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE  ANGELS  OF  MES- 
SER  ERCOLE 


•THE  JUSTICE  OF  THE 
KING 


THE  KING'S  SCAPE- 
GOAT 

THE  TAILOR  OF  VITRK 
(THE  GIPSY  COUNT) 


*THE  COURT  JESTER. 
Juv. 


A    MAID    OF    BRIT- 
TANY 


*THE  MAGADA 


LADY  DEAR.    Juv. 


*FAIR  MARGARET 


•SOLDIERS    OF    THE 
CROSS.    Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Duffield  Osborne 
(F.  A.  Stokes  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


Italy  in  the  late  Fifteenth 
Century.  Time  of  Peru- 
gino,  the  painter. 


Hamilton  Drummond  France  in  1482:   Louis   XI. 

(Stanley  Paul,  Eng.;  and       and  the    Dauphin.      Also 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.)  Villon,  Commines,  &c. 


Hamilton  Drummond 
(Ward,  Lock  &  Co.) 

"  May  Wynne  " 

(Gay  &  Hancock,  Eng. ; 
and  McBride  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Cornelia  Baker 
(Stevens,     Eng.  ;      and 
Bobbs-Merrill,  U.S.A.) 


"May  Wynne 
(Greening) 


W.  M.  Ardagh 
(J.  Lane) 


Millicent  E.  Mann 
(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 


H.  Rider  Haggard 

(Hutchinson,  Eng.  ;  and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 


Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Last  few  months  of  Louis 
XL,  1483. 

Brittany,  1483.  Pierre  Lan- 
dais,  Minister  of  Duke 
Francis  II. 


France,  Germany,  and  Spain, 
about  1485-90  (Duchess 
Anne  of  Brittany  and  the 
Princess  Marguerite  of 
Austria). 

Hostilities  between  France 
and  Brittany  in  1491 
(Charles  VIII.  and  Anne  of 
Brittany). 

The  Grand  Canary,  1482-92  : 
last  stand  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  Canary  Islands 
against  the  Spaniards. 

A  little  Spanish  girl  in  the 
days  of  Queen  Isabella 
(Columbus  period). 

Henry  VII.  and  the  London 
of  1491,  but  chiefly  Spain 
under  Ferdinand  and  Isa- 
bella. Ends  in  Essex, 
1501. 

England  (Henry  VII.)  and 
Spain  (Ferdinand  and  Isa- 
bella— Spaniards  v.  Moors). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
FIFTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


289 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*MAX,FRITZ  AND  HOB. 

Juv. 


*THE  BLUE  DRAGON. 
Juv. 

A  TRUSTY  REBEL. 
Juv. 

GIOVANNI  OF  FLO- 
RENCE (in  "  His- 
toric Boys").  Juv. 

DON  TARQUINIO 


*ELENA 


SUBJECT. 


Christabel  R.  Coleridge 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


Frances  Mary  Peard 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Henry  Clarke 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Rolfe 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 


Evelyn  B.  Warde 
(Simpkin  &  Co.) 


English  youth's  adventures 
in  Bavaria,  1492  ;  ends, 
Thames  Valley  and  Henry 
VII.  at  Windsor. 

England  under  Henry  VII. : 
Chester,  1494-6.  Miracle 
Plays,  the  Plague,  &c. 

Per  kin  War  beck  from  1495. 


Florence,  1490  (the  boyhood 
of  Pope  Leo  X.). 


Rome  under  the  Borgias  in 
the  year  1495.  One  day  in 
a  man's  life. 

Italy,  1492-97,  and  1507. 
Careful  studies  of  Caesar 
Borgia  and  his  sister 
Lucrezia. 


SIXTEENTH  CENTURY. 

TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

THE  SECRET  CHAM- 
BER AT  CHAD.   Juv. 

«THE  GORGEOUS  BOR- 
GIA 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(Hurst,  Eng.  ;  and  Har- 
per, U.S.A.) 

England  at  the  Beginning 
of  the  Sixteenth  Century 
(Henry  VII.)  ;  the  Lol- 
lards. 

Rome,  1497-1507  (Caesar 
Borgia)  . 

a  This  novel  may  advantageously  be  contrasted  with  Sabatini's  fine  romance,  "  The  Shame  of 
Motley  "  ;  in  the  latter  book  Csesar  Borgia  is  depicted  as  a  man  relentless  but  human,  while  Mr. 
McCarthy's  pages  present  him  as  the  unredeemed  monster  of  the  traditional  view. 

U 


2  go 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  ;    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


«THE  COURT  OF  LU- 
CIFER 

*THE  SHAME  OF  MOT- 
LEY 

*LOVE  AT  ARMS 


*XlMENES 


THE      HERMIT 
LIVRY.     Juv. 


Nathan  Gallizier 
(L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 

Rafael  Sabatini 
(Hutchinson) 

Rafael  Sabatini 
(Hutchinson) 


"  Jean  Bertheroy  " 

(Annand  Colin  et  Cie, 
Paris) 

M.  R.  H. 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


FAITHFUL,  BUT  NOT  i  Emma  Leslie 

FAMOUS.     Juv.  (Religious  Tract  Society) 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE 
FOUNTAIN 


*  HASSAN 
SAIRE 


LE    JANIS- 


THE  CITY  AND  THE 
CASTLE.    Juv. 

*THE  SWORD  OF  THE 
. -.LORD 


Eugene  Lee-Hamilton 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Leon  Cahun 

(Annand  Colin  et  Cie, 
Paris) 

Annie  Lucas 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Joseph  Hocking 

(Cassell,    Eng. ;     and 
Button,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Rome  and  the  Borgias — 
especially  Caesar  Borgia. 

Italy,  1498-1503 :  Caesar 
Borgia,  Lucrezia  Borgia, 
and  Giovanni  Sforza. 

Italy  and  the  Sforzas  about 
the  year  1500.  Time  of 
Caesar  Borgia's  conquests. 

Cardinal  Ximencs  in  1500. 


Picardy,  1501-25  (Louis  XII. 
— Francis  I.).  Dawn  of 
the  Reformation  ;  the  Sor- 
bonne,  &c. 

France  (Paris  and  the  Sor- 
bonne,  &c.)  in  period  1510- 
19.  Dawn  of  the  Reforma- 
tion ;  Guillaume  Farel,  &c. 

Pursuit  of  the  Fountain  of 
Youth  by  the  Spanish  ad- 
venturer, Ponce  de  Leon, 
at  the  beginning  of  the  Six- 
teenth Century. 

j  Turkey,  Syria,  and  Egypt  in 
1516. 


Zurich,  1517.  The  Reforma- 
tion in  Switzerland  :  Ulric 
Zwingle,  &c. 

England  (Henry  VIII.)  and 
Germany :  an  Englishman 
sent  on  a  secret  mission. 
Martin  Luther  in  Witten- 
berg, 1517 ;  also  Tetzel, 
Erasmus,  &c. 


a  This  volume  completes  the  author's  trilogy  of  romances  dealing  with  mediaeval  Rome  (vide 
"  The  Sorceress  of  Rome,"  on  p.  361,  and  "  Castel  del  Monte,"  on  p.  274). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


291 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a*lN    THE    DAYS 
LUTHER 


6THE      HERMIT 
LIVRY.     Juv. 


IXTLIL'  OF  TEZCUCO 
(in  "  Historic 
Boys").  Juv. 

THE  WAR  GOD  AND 
THE  BROWN  MAI- 
DEN. Juv. 


Esme  Stuart 
(Sonnenschein) 


Emma  Leslie 

(Sunday  School  Union) 


Germany  (Black  Forest, 
Wittenberg,  and  Worms), 
1520-25.  Martin  Luther ; 
the  Peasants'  Revolt,  &c. 

Picardy  in  the  time  of 
Francis  I.,  1521-36 ;  Cal- 
vin's boyhood  and  youth 
up  to  his  leaving  France. 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks  j  Mexico,    1515.     Last  of  the 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and  j      Aztec  princes. 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


Tom  Bevan 
(Collins) 


A    Devon    lad    in    Mexico 
(Montezuma). 


ROGER 
Juv. 


THE    BOLD. 


THE  WHITE  CON- 
QUERORS OF  MEXI- 
CO (THE  WHITE 
CONQUERORS)  .Juv . 


Ca.pt.  F.  S.  Brereton  !  Conquest  of  Mexico. 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and  | 
Caldwell,  U.S.A.) 


Kirk  Munroe 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


*THE   CRIMSON   CON-  i  C.  B.  Hudson 

QUEST  (Grant  Richards,  Eng. ; 

and  McClurg,  U.S.A.) 


THE  UNSTRUNG  Bow 


WITH  PIZARRO  THE 
CONQUISTADOR. 
Juv. 


D.  O.  Batchelor 

(Sherman,  French,  Bos- 
ton) 

A.  L.  Haydon 
(Melrose) 


Ditto. 


Pizarro  and  Peru. 


An  Englishman  in  Peru  at 
the  time  of  Pizarro's  con- 
quest. 

The  Spaniards  in  Peru. 


a  Originally  published  under  the  title,  "  The  Fate  of  Castle  Lowengard." 

b  This  book  not  only  carries  on  (chronologically)  the  story  of  the  Reformation  depicted  in  the 
same  author's  "  Faithful,  but  not  Famous  "  ;  it  also  supplements  the  tale  of  the  same  title  by 
"  M.  R.  H."  which  has  already  been  entered.  It  does  not  often  happen  that  two  books  by  different 
writers  have  exactly  the  same  title,  deal  with  exactly  the  same  part  of  the  world,  and  cover  almost 
exactly  the  same  period  !  Both  tales  are  well  written,  and  fair  examples  of  their  kind. 


JU2 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


c*EviL  MAY-DAY.  Juv. 


THE  LAST  ABBOT  OF 
GLASTONBURY. 
Juv. 


6AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE 
GOLDEN  FLEECE. 
Juv. 

CAGNES  MARTIN.  Juv. 


THE  HEIR  OF  TRE- 
HERNE.    Juv. 


AMPTHILL    TOWERS. 
Juv. 

THE      FOREST      OF 
ARDEN.     Juv. 

THE     CHANCELLOR'S 
SPY.     Juv. 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 


Emma  Leslie 
(Gall  &  Inglis) 


W.  E.  Heygate 
(Parker,  Oxford) 

A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 


A.  J.  Foster 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


W.  Gresley 
(Masters) 


Tom  Bevan 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


London,  1517:  Henry  VIII. 
at  beginning  of  his  reign. 
The  hatred  of  alien  arti- 
ficers, and  consequent  riot 
of  the  'prentices  (Newgate 
attacked,  &c.). 

Dissolution  of  the  Monas- 
teries (England).  Prologue 
presents  Glastonbury  Ab- 
bey in  1524  ;  Part  I.  deals 
with  the  Abbey's  destruc- 
tion, 1538-9 ;  Part  II. 
takes  the  reader  to  Dart- 
moor, Exeter,  &c.,  1545-7. 

Oxford  and  London,  1520-36. 
The  Reformation  period— 
Wolsey,  Tyndale,  etc. 

Oxford  in  Wolsey's  time  :  the 
Cardinal's  Fall  and  Death. 

Devon  and  Cornwall,  1530- 
52  :  time  of  Thomas  Crom- 
well and  the  Western  Re- 
bellion, &c. 

Bedfordshire,  1532-3.  Time 
of  Catherine  of  Arragon 
and  Anne  Boleyn. 

Warwickshire,  &c.,  1535-55. 
The  Reformation  period 
(Latimer) . 

Last  days  of  Anne  Boleyn, 
and  the  coming  of  Jane 
Seymour  (Thomas  Crom- 
well, Henry  VIII.,  Princess 
Mary,  &c.). 


a  A  far  less  interesting  tale  by  Miss  Everett  Green — dealing  with  almost  the  same  period — is, 
"  For  the  Faith  "  (early  Reformation  influences  at  Oxford). 

6  A  less  interesting  tale  of  the  Reformation  period  by  the  same  author  is,  "  Peter  the  Apprentice  " 
(Religious  Tract  Society)  ;  it  deals  with  London  and  Greenwich  about  1525 — 30. 

e  Published  both  separately  and  in  Vol.  II.  ("  England  :  The  Mediaeval  Period  ")  of  Parker's 
Tales  Illustrating  Church  History. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


293 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE   ANNE-QUEEN'S 
CHRONICLE 


OLD  LONDON  BRIDGE 


THE    CHURCH    AND 
THE  KING.    Juv. 


Reginald  Fairer 
(Alston  Rivers) 


G.  Herbert  Rodwell 
(Routledge) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


SUBJECT. 


C*THE  KING'S    Robert  Hugh  Benson 

ACHIEVEMENT  (Sir  I.  Pitman) 


A  FRIAR  OBSERVANT 


*THE  LADY  OF  BLOSS- 
HOLME 


CLEAN  HANDS  (in  "  A 
Fair  Haven,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

THE  QUEEN'S  NURSE 
(in  "  Historical 
Vignettes  ") 

*THE  FIFTH  QUEEN 


*PRIVY  SEAL 


Frances  M.  Brookfield 
(Sir  I.  Pitman) 


H.  Rider  Haggard 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


History  of  the  last  five 
months  in  Anne  Boleyn's 
life,  presented  in  fictional 
form.  Favourable  to  Anne. 

Edward  Osborne  as  a  London 
apprentice,  1536 ;  Henry 
VIII.,  Jane  Seymour,  Tho- 
mas Cromwell,  &c. 

Henry  VIII.  and  the  Dis- 
solution of  the  Monasteries 
(Yorkshire,  London,  &c.). 

Henry  VIII.  and  the  Dis- 
solution of  the  Monasteries. 
The  King,  More,  Thomas 
Cromwell,  &c. 

England  (Dissolution  of  the 
Monasteries)  ;  Germany 
(Luther)  ;  and  Italy. 

England  (Eastern  Counties 
and  London),  1535-6  ;  the 
Pilgrimage  of  Grace.  Henry 
VIII.  and  Thomas  Crom- 
well. 


Mary  H.  Debenham  Henry  VIII.  and  the  Monas- 

(Na tional  Society,  Eng.;  |      teries,  1537. 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
(Alston  Rivers) 

Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
(Alston  Rivers) 


Jane  Seymour,  and  the  birth 
of  Edward  VI.  in  1537. 


Katharine  Howard,  1539-40. 


Thomas  Cromwell  and  Kath- 
arine Howard. 


a  Written  from  a  Roman  Catholic  standpoint. 


294 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE    FIFTH    QUEEN 
CROWNED 


*THE  ARROW  OF  THE 
NORTH 


Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
(Eveleigh  Nash) 


R.  H.  Forster 
(J.  Long) 


*THE  WITCH'S  SWORD    D.  Kerr  Fulton 
(E.  Arnold) 


FOR  THE  SOUL  OF  A  J  J.  W.  Brodie  Innes 
WITCH  (Rebman) 


A  KING'S  MASQUER- 


"  May  Wynne  " 
(Greening) 


*Two    DOVER    BOYS. 
Juv. 


fl*RENKE 


Gertrude  Hollis 
(Blackie) 


Henry  Curties 
(Grant  Richards) 


SUBJECT. 


*MooR  AND  Moss.  Juv.1  Mary  H.  Debenham 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


Katharine  Howard ;  Ponte- 
fract  Castle  and  Hampton 
Court. 

Northumberland  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  Sixteenth 
Century  :  the  Scotch  War, 
ending  with  Flodden,  1513. 

Scotland,  1513  (Flodden  and 
after).  Also  Paris,  &c. 

North  Scotland  (Forres  and 
district),  about  the  second 
quarter  of  the  Sixteenth 
Century.  Mediaeval  Witch- 
craft. 

James  V.  of  Scotland  in  dis- 
guise :  a  tale  of  adventure 
in  the  Border  district. 

Cumberland,  and  the  Border 
Country  (Liddesdale) ,  1520 
and  the  years  following. 
Raids  of  the  Armstrongs, 
&c. 

Adventures  in  the  Mediter- 
ranean and  North  Africa, 
1534-5  ;  time  of  the  corsair 
Barbarossa,  and  of  the 
Emperor  Charles  V.'s  cap- 
ture of  Tunis. 

France  (Bourges,  Rennes, 
&c.),  1515-20.  Marriage 
of  Francis  I.  to  Princess 
Claude  ;  Battle  of  Marig- 
nano  ;  and  the  Field  of  the 
Cloth  of  Gold. 


a  The  first  volume  in  a  new  "  trilogy  of  historical  novels  by  Sylvester  Cole  "  is  said  to  deal  with 
the  "  time  of  Francis  I."  (France) ;  as  the  book  under  the  title  of  "  A  Son  of  Navarre  "  (Connoisseur's 
Press,  Jersey  City,  New  York)  will  not  be  obtainable  until  after  my  final  notes  have  been  made,  this 
bare  allusion  to  it  must  suffice. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— -continued. 


295 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


STORY  OF  THE  FIELD 
OF  THE  CLOTH  OF 
GOLD  (in  "  Chival- 
ric  Days").  Juv. 

*THE  QUEEN'S  PAGE. 
Juv. 


MID       CLASH       OF 
SWORDS.    Juv. 


flA  JOURNEY  THROUGH 
THE  AIR  (in  "A 
Feast  of  Stories 
from  Foreign 
Lands").  Juv. 

*THE    PLOUGH    OF 
SHAME 


A  NIGHT  WITH  ALES- 
SANDRO 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


England  (Bucks)  and  France, 
1520.  Henry  VIII.  and 
Francis  I. 


Cornelia  Baker  S.W.  France  in  the  1520-30 

(B.  F.  Stevens,  Eng.  ;|  period  (Francis  I.)  ;  Mar- 
and  Bobbs-Merrill,  guerite  of  Angouleme, 
U.S.A.)  Queen  of  Navarre. 


George  Surrey 

(H .  Frowde,  and  Hodder) 


James  F.  Cobb 
(Wells  Gardner) 


The  Sack  of  Rome,  1527. 
Time  of  Benvenuto  Cellini, 
&c. 

Austria  (Marburg),  1530 ; 
time  of  the  Turkish  incur- 


Mary  B.  Whiting 
(Dent  &  Co.) 


Tread  well  F.  Cleveland 
(Chapman,  Eng.  ;    and 
Holt,  U.S.A.) 


Ferrara,  Florence,  &c.,  in 
the  days  of  the  Emperor 
Charles  V.  and  Pope  Cle- 
ment VII.,  Ariosto,  Tasso, 
Michelangelo,  etc. 

Florence  under  Duke  Ales- 
sandro  de'  Medici,  in  the 
time  of  the  Emperor 
Charles  V.  and  of  Francis  I. 
of  France.  Fourth  decade 
of  the  Sixteenth  Century. 

*THE      CRIPPLE      OF    Felicia  Buttz  Clark  Nuremberg,      1546-7      (just 

NUREMBERG.  Juv.  j  (C.  H.  Kelly,  Eng. ;  and  after  Luther's  death)  :  re- 
Jennings,  U.S.A.  ligious  divisions  and  per- 
secutions. The  Emperor 
Charles  V.,  Alva,  &c. 
Ends  with  the  Battle  of 
Miihlberg,  1547. 


&THE  BRIDE  OF  RAM- 
CUTTAH.     JUV. 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


East  Indies  (Goa),  1545-58  : 
Francis  Xavier  and  his 
missions  in  the  East. 


a  A  very  short  tale,  but  it  deserves  to  be  mentioned  because  of  its  rare  subject. 
ft  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Asia  and  Africa  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 


296 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE  PEARL  FISHERS. 
Juv. 


*  JOHN  KNOX'S  BAIRNS 
Juv. 


*THE  GAGE  OF  RED 
AND  WHITE 


*ORRAIN 


THB  CUCKOO 


SIR     GALAHAD     OF 
NEW  FRANCE 


CLOISTER  TO  COURT 


THE  GOLDEN  GLORY. 
Juv. 


*FOR       KETT      AND 
COUNTRYSIDE 


*!N     THE 
NIGHT 


FACE     OF 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Gertrude  Hollis 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Margaret  H.  Roberton 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Graham  Hope 

(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


S.  K.  Levett- Yeats 

(Methuen,    Eng. ;     and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

Hamilton  Drummond 
(F.  V.  White) 


W.  H.  Johnson 

(Ward,     Lock,     Eng.  ; 
and  Turner,  U.S.A.) 

Frances  M.  Cotton- Walker 
(Longmans  &  Co.) 


D.  H.  Parry 
(E.  Nister) 


F.  C.  Tansley 
(Jarrold) 

"  Dick  Donovan 
(J.  Long) 


SUBJECT. 


A  Portuguese  boy  among 
the  Indians  of  the  Eastern 
Seas,  mid-Sixteenth  Cen- 
tury :  Francis  Xavier's 
mission  work. 

Scotland  and  France,  about 
1546-8.  John  Knox ;  Mary 
of  Guise  and  her  little 
daughter  Marie ;  &c. 

France,  about  1548.  Little 
Princess  Jeanne  of  Beam  ; 
also  Catherine  de'  Medici, 
Cardinal  Charles  of  Guise, 
and  the  youthful  Coligny. 

Henry  II.  of  France  ;  Cathe- 
rine de'  Medici  v.  Diane 
de  Poitiers. 

Peasant  and  Seigneur  in 
France  at  the  time  of 
Coligny  and  Guise. 

France  (time  of  Coligny), 
and  Florida,  1552. 


France  (Meaux)  and  Ger- 
many (Heidelberg),  in 
period,  1559-75 :  Charlotte 
de  Bourbon  as  Abbess  of 
Jouarre,  &c.,  up  to  her 
marriage  with  William  of 
Orange. 

England  in  the  days  of 
Edward  VI.  ;  a  Norwich 
youth  in  Kett's  Rebellion. 

Norfolk  in  1549  (Edward 
VI.)  :  the  Peasant  Rising. 

Life  in  Glasgow  and  district 
about  1550. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURA— continued. 


297 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  DAUGHTERS  OF  I  Wm.  Jasper  Nicholls 
SUFFOLK  (Lippincott) 


UNDER  TWO  QUEENS. 
Juv. 


*THE       ROSKERRY 
TREASURE.    Juv. 


THE  TANGLED  SKEIN 
(!N         MAR  Y'S 
REIGN) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(J.  F.  Shaw) 


Mrs.  Henry  Clarke 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


"  Baroness  Orczy  " 

(Greening,   Eng.  ;    and 
Cupples,  U.S.A.) 


THE    QUEEN'S   TRA-    Robert  Hugh  Benson 


HOUSE  OF  TORMENT 


(Sir  I.  Pitman) 


C.  Ranger-Gull 
(Greening) 


THE  CRUISE  OF  THE;  S.  Hancock 

GOLDEN     FLEECE.  !      (Religious  Tract  Society) 
Juv. 


A  DEVONSHIRE  LASS 


ENGLAND'S 
BETH 


ELIZA  - 


THE     UNWEDDED 
BRIDE 


H.  C.  Moore 
(R.  Scott) 


Judge  E.  A.  Parry 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


Wm.  Robert  Cullen 
(J-  Long) 


SUBJECT. 


Lady  Jane  Grey,  and  her 
sister,  Lady  Katherine 
Grey. 

London,  1552-4 :  time  of 
Lady  Jane  Grey  and  Sir 
Thomas  Wyatt. 

Cornwall  and  London  dis- 
trict in  the  time  of  Wyatt's 
Rebellion. 

Hampton  Court  in  the  days 
of  Queen  Mary. 


Queen  Mary  (a  defence)  ; 
Princess  Elizabeth,  Philip 
of  Spain,  Cardinal  Pole,  &c. 

England  (London,  Chelms- 
ford,  &c.)  and  Spain,  in 
1555  :  Philip  II.  and  Mary. 
Time  of  Rowland  Taylor's 
martyrdom  and  the  In- 
quisition. 

A  story  of  adventure  in  the 
days  of  Philip  and  Mary. 


Devon  (Plymouth),  and 
Spain  (Philip  II.  and  the 
Inquisition).  Begins  a 
few  days  before  Elizabeth's 
accession. 

Hertfordshire,  Kent,  London 
&c.,  in  the  Henry  VIII.— 
Elizabeth  period :  Cecil, 
Wyatt,  etc. 

Aberdeen  and  Edinburgh, 
1560-1.  Mary  Queen  of 
Scots,  and  the  religious 
struggles  of  the  period. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


IN     THE      QUEEN'S  "  Dick  Donovan  " 
SERVICE  (J.  Long) 

*WITH  THE  WARDEN  Howard  Pease 
OF  THE  MARCHES          (Constable) 

aTHE  PRIOR'S  WARD.  H.  C.  Adams 

Juv.  (Parker,  Oxford) 


WITH    POISON    AND 
SWORD 


W.  M.  O'Kane 
(Mills  &  Boon) 


BY  WHAT  AUTHORITY    Robert  Hugh  Benson 
(Isbister) 


*PAM  THE  FIDDLER 


H.  Sutclifie 

(T.  Werner  Laurie) 


LOVE  WHILE  YE  MAY  I  Henry  J.  Swallow 
(Jarrold) 

AN  OLD  TIME  YARN.  |  Edgar  Pickering 
Juv.  (Blackie) 

i 

WHEN        HAWKINS  !  Tinsley  Pratt 

SAILED   THE  SEA.  \      (Grant  Richards,  Eng.  ; 
Juv.  and  Brentano's.U.S.A. 


SUBJECT. 


Mary  Queen  of  Scots  and 
Darnley. 

Scottish  Border  in  the  time 
of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots. 

English  religious  divisions 
about  1550-79  (Bishop 
Jewel,  &c.). 

London  and  Ulster,  1561- 
62 :  Irish  and  Spanish 
plots  against  Elizabeth. 
The  Queen,  Dudley,  Cecil, 
Dee  the  astrologist,  &c. 

Religion  under  Elizabeth 
from  1569 :  London,  &c., 
and  the  North. 

W.  Yorkshire,  1569:  the 
Nortons  of  Rylstone,  and 
the  Catholic  Rising.  Mar}' 
Queen  of  Scots  at  Bolton. 
Also  Elizabeth,  Cecil.  &c. 

London,  in  1547  and  in  1592  ; 
but  mainly  the  Durham 
Coast,  &c.,  1569-72. 

West  Indies  and  Mexico. 
Hawkins  and  Drake  in 
1567- 

English  Naval  Supremacy 
in  Elizabethan  days. 


SEA  DOGS  ALL.  Juv. 


*  ACROSS  THE  SPANISH 
MAIN.    Juv. 


Tom  Bevan 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

"  Harry  Collingwood  " 
(Blackie} 


Elizabethan  England  (Forest 
of  Dean),  and  the  Spanish 
Main  (Drake,  &c.) 

Adventure  in  the  Indies 
(Cuba,  &c.)  in  the  time 
of  Elizabeth. 


In  Vol.  III.  of  Parker's  Tales  lUustttting  Church  History  ;  it  is  not  published  separately. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


HURRAH     FOR     THE 
SPANISH  MAIN.  Juv. 


*WITH  DRAKE  ON  THE 
SPANISH         MAIN 
(ON  THE  SPANISH 
MAIN).    Juv. 

aA  MARINER  OF  ENG- 
LAND.   Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


R.  Leighton 
(Melrose) 


Herbert  Strang 

(H.  Frowde,  and  Hodder, 
Eng.  ;  and  Bobbs- 
Merrill,  U.S.A.)  ] 

H.  Strang  and  R.  Stead 
(H.    Frowde ;     and 
Hodder) 


*!N     THE     DAYS     OF  j  J.  S.  Fletcher 
DRAKE.     Juv.  (Blackie) 


*  UNDER         DRAKE'S    G.  A.  Henty 

FLAG.     Juv.  (Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 

Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


THE  VOYAGE  OF  THE    H.  St.  John 
"  AVENGER."  Juv.  <      (Jarrold) 


RENKGAT 


A  CORONATION 
(in  "  Tales  of  Rye 
Town  ") 


Augustin  Filon 

(Armand  Colin  et  Cie, 
Paris) 

Maud  Stepney  Rawson 
(Constable) 


SUBJECT. 


Drake's  third  voyage  to 
Darien,  starting  from  Ply- 
mouth, 1572. 

Among  the  Islands  of  the 
Carribbean  Sea  in  the  days 
of  Elizabeth. 


England,  the  Netherlands, 
the  Armada,  &c.,  1570-96. 
Elizabeth,  Drake,  Essex, 
and  others. 

A  Yorkshire  boy  carried 
away  to  Mexico,  and  his 
experiences  there,  1578—80 
(Spanish  Inquisition,  and 
final  release  by  Sir  Francis 
Drake). 

Time  of  Elizabeth,  1572-88. 
Begins  Plymouth,  but  deals 
mostly  with  adventure  on 
the  Spanish  Main  and  in 
South  America  (Drake  and 
Hawkins).  Ends  Armada. 

Devon  and  the  West  Indies 
&c.,  1583-95  ;  Drake,  end- 
ing with  his  death. 


•BASIL     THE     PAGE,  i  G.  I.  Whitham 

Juv.  (Wells  Gardner,  Eng. 

and  Dodge,  U.S.A.) 


England  in  the 
Drake  and  the 
1586-93. 


time    of 
Armada, 


Elizabethan  Rye  (Queen 
Elizabeth  "  crowns "  a 
child  with  flowers). 

A  lad's  adventures  in  the 
West  Country  (England). 
London,  and  Virginia : 
time  of  Elizabeth,  Mary 
Queen  of  Scots,  Drake,  &c. 


a  One  of  Herbert  Str (ing's  Historical  Series. 


300 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


RAVENSDALE  CASTLE. 
Juv. 

A  LADDER  OF  SWORDS 


*A     GENTLEMAN     OF 
ENGLAND.    Juv. 

THE  OLD  MOAT  FARM. 
Juv. 


THE       SPLENDID 
KNIGHT 


THE  QUEEN'S  KNIGHT 
ERRANT.     Juv. 

SIR  WALTER  RALEIGH 
(RALEIGH) 


Louisa  C.  Silke 

(Religious  Tract  Society 

Gilbert  Parker 

(Heinemann,  Eng. ;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Partridge  &  Co.) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Blackie) 


H.  A.  Hinkson 

(F.  V.  White,  London  ; 
and  Sealy,  Dublin) 

Beatrice  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 

Wm.    Devereux    and    S. 

Lovell 

(Greening,    Eng.  ;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 


THE  WOUNDS  OF  A  i  Dora  G.  McChesney 


FRIEND 


LOYAL  HEARTS  AND 
TRUE.    Juv. 


THE  FAITH  OF  HILARY 
LOVEL.     Juv. 


THE  FIGHTING  LADS 
OF  DEVON.    Juv. 


(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


E.  Everett  Green 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


W.  Murray  Gray  don 
(Partridge) 


SUBJECT. 


Elizabeth,  1575  :  the  Earl  of 
Leicester  at  Kenilworth, 
&c. 

Elizabeth  and  Leicester,  &c. 


Sir  Philip  Sidney  :  Kent  and 
Abroad. 

Kent  and  America  (Virginia): 
Sir  Philip  Sidney,  Princess 
Pocahontas,  Raleigh,  &c. 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh. 


Ditto. 


Elizabeth  and  Raleigh : 
Hants,  London,  &c.,  about 
the  time  of  Mary  Queen  of 
Scots'  death. 

America  (Virginian  settle- 
ment), and  England : 
Elizabeth's  Court,  and  the 
coming  of  the  Armada. 

Elizabeth  and  her  Court 
(Walsingham,  Sidney.&c.). 
Ends  with  the  Armada. 

London  (Greenwich  Palace, 
Whitehall,  &c.)  just  before 
and  during  the  Armada, 
1587-88. 

Devon  (Dartmoor)  and  Lon- 
don, 1587-8 :  Earl  of 
Essex, Walsingham,  Drake, 
&c.  The  Armada. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


301 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*!N    MORTAL    PERIL. 
Juv. 

FOR     CHURCH    AND 
CHIEFTAIN 

aA  QUEEN  OF  MEN 


*THE  QUEEN'S  HOST- 
AGE 


A  KNIGHT  OF  GOD 


MY  RAPIER  AND  MY 
DAUGHTER  (in 
"  Flower  o'  the 
Orange,"  &c.) 

MY  LORD  OF  ESSEX 


THE  FAILURE  OF  A 
HERO.     Juv. 


E.  E.  Crake 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 

"  May  Wynne  " 
(Mills  &  Boon) 

William  O'Brien 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Harriet  T.  Comstock 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


Edith  Mary  Power 
(Sands  &  Co.) 


Defeat  of  the  Spanish  Ar- 
mada, 1588.  The  hero  is 
taken  captive  to  Spain. 

Elizabethan  Ireland ;  time 
of  the  Earl  of  Desmond,  &c. 

Chiefly  Ireland  (Galway)  in 
the  Armada  period  :  Grace 
O'Malley,  Sir  John  Perrot, 
&c.  In  the  later  chapters 
Elizabeth  appears,  and 
Perrot's  death  in  the  Tower 
(1592)  is  described. 

Queen  Elizabeth  and  her 
Court  about  1590 :  love 
and  intrigue.  Ben  Jonson 
and  Shakespeare  (produc- 
tion of  "  Love's  Labour 
Lost "  at  the  Globe 
Theatre) . 

Yorkshire,  1592 :  Roman 
Catholics  and  their  griev- 
ances under  Elizabeth. 


Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle  j  Tale    of    a    young    London 


(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 


Mrs.  Charles  Brookfield 
(Sir  I.  Pitman) 


Mary  Bramston 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


swordsman,  and  his  Italian 
instructor,  1595  (Eliza- 
beth). 

Earl  of  Essex  and  Sir  Robert 
Cecil  in  1596.  Chiefly 
London  and  district ;  also 
Spain  (capture  of  Cadiz). 
Queen  Elizabeth,  Raleigh, 
&c. 

The  great  Elizabethans, 
1590-1612  :  Shakespeare, 
Sir  Henry  Wotton,  Donne, 
Richard  Hooker,  Essex, 
Bacon,  &c. 


a  A  graphic  account  of  Irish  affairs  about  this  same  period  is  given  in  Mr.  Standish  O'Grady's 
true  story,  "  The  Flight  of  the  Eagle  "  (Sealy,  Bryers  &  Walker).  A  new  edition  has  been  recently 
issued.  Messrs.  Sealy  also  publish  a  second  edition  of  the  same  author's  highly  praised  "  The  Bog 
of  Stars  and  other  Stories  and  Sketches  of  Elizabethan  Ireland." 


302 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*SHAKESPEARE'S 
SWEETHEART 


THE     ROMANCE 
GENTLE  WILL 

THE     PLAYERS 
LONDON 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Sara  Hawks  Sterling 
(Chatto,     Eng. ; 
Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 


and 


Clyde  C.  Westover 

(Neale  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Louise  Beecher  Chancellor 
(B.  W.  Dodge,  U.S.A.) 


•IV 

*S  H  A  K  E  s  p  E  A  R  E '  s    A.  T.  Quillcr  Couch 


CHRISTMAS 


(Smith,     Elder,     Eng.; 
and  Longmans,U.S.  A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Courtship  and  early  married 
life  of  the  Poet  (Ann 
Hathaway,  Ben  Jonson, 
&c.).  Supposed  to  be  re- 
lated, five  years  after 
Shakespeare's  death,  by 
his  widow. 

The  story  of  William  Shake- 
speare :  Ann  Hathaway, 
&c. 

First  performance  of  Shake- 
speare's "  Romeo  and 
Juliet." 

Shakespeare  in  1598. 


CAPTAIN  RAVENSHAW   R.  N.  Stephens 

(Ward,     Lock,     Eng.  ; 


THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE 
NEEDLE  ROCK 

COURT  CARDS 


MIDSUMMER  MORN 


and  Page,  U.S.A.) 


Mary  J.  Wilson 
(Elliot  Stock) 

"  Austin  Clare  " 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


R.  H.  Forster 
(J-  Long) 


An  adventurer  in  London 
and  neighbourhood  to- 
wards the  end  of  Eliza- 
beth's reign. 

Isle  of  Wight,  &c.,  1571-1606 
(Elizabeth — James  I.). 

Intrigues  between  English 
and  Scotch  Courts  (Eliza- 
beth and  James  VI.)  :  the 
Cowrie  Conspiracy  period. 

Tynedale  and  Liddesdale, 
1598  (raiders). 


DOCTOR  ADRIAN.  / uv. j  Deborah  Alcock  The  Netherlands,    1566-82; 

(Religious  Tract  Society)  Antwerp,  Leyden,  &c. 
The  Prince  of  Orange  and 
the  Beggars. 


*  BROTHERS  FIVE. 


I  Violet  T.  Kirke 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


The  Netherlands  (Friesland, 
&c.),  1568-74 :  Louis  of 
Nassau.  Battles  of  Heili- 
gerlee,  Ems,  and  Mooker- 
hyde.  Epilogue,  1579. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


303 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*THE  MAVIS  AND  THE 
MERLIN.     Juv. 


*RAOUL,  GENTLEMAN 
OF  FORTUNE 


*  JACQUELINE  OF  THE 
CARRIER  PIGEONS. 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

H.  C.  Bailey 

(Hutchinson,  Eng.;  and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Augusta  H.  Seaman 

(Sidgwick,   Eng.  ; 

Sturgis,  U.S.A.) 


and 


THE   "  GREY   Fox  "  |  Tom  Bevan 

OF  HOLLAND.  Juv.        (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

MONSIEUR  LE  CAPI-    Seth  Cook  Comstock 

TAINE    DOUAY  (J.  Long) 


THE  REBEL  PRINCE 


Seth  Cook  Comstock 
(J-  Long) 


THE    BETRAYAL    OF  '  G.  Connock  Dyke 
MISTRESS  DONIS  (Skemngton) 


KING  STORK  OF  THE 


Albert  Lee 


NETHERLANDS.  Juv.       ( Jarrcdd) 


THE  CRUISE  OF  THE  Edgar  Pickering 

ANGEL.     Juv.  (Warne  &  Co.) 

*A   CAPTIVE   OF  THE  J.  Finnemore 

CORSAIRS.     Juv.  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


A    KNIGHT    OF    ST.  j  Capt.  F.  S.  Brereton 
JOHN.     Juv.  (Blackie) 


Antwerp  in  1573  and  in  1576 
(sack  of  the  city)  ;  also 
Elizabethan  Chelsea. 


The  Revolt  in  the  Nether- 
lands from  1573-84. 


A  girl  of  seventeen  and  her 
young  brother  in  Leyden, 
1574  (Siege  by  the  Span- 
iards). 

The  Netherlands  Revolt, 
1576. 

The  Defence  of  Antwerp  in 
1576. 

William  the  Silent  in  the  last 
seven  years  of  his  life, 
* S77-&4  (Netherlands). 

The  Netherlands  and  William 
the  Silent. 

Leyden,  Antwerp,  &c.,  in  the 
early  days  of  the  Dutch 
Republic,  ending  1584 : 
the  Duke  of  Anjou,  the 
"  Familiars,"  &c. 

The  Siege  of  Antwerp,  1585, 
and  the  Beggars. 

Tunis  in  Elizabethan  days, 
and  the  Siege  of  Malta, 
1564. 

Havre,  and  the  Siege  of 
Malta,  1564. 


304 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


fl*GASTON   DELATOUR 


ST.  BARTHOLOMEW'S 
EVE.    Juv. 


*FOR   THE   ADMIRAL. 
Juv. 


CUTHBERT,  LORD  OF 
LOWEDALE  (THE 
LORD  OF  LOWE- 
DALE).  Juv. 


A  KING'S  TREACHERY. 
Juv. 


FOR  FAITH  AND  NA- 
VARRE (HENRY  OF 
NAVARRE) 


*THE  WHITE  PLUMES 
OF  NAVARRE  (THE 
WHITE  PLUME) 


Walter  Pater 
(Macmillan) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


W.  J.  Marx 

(Hodder,     Eng.  ;      and 
Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 


R.  D.  Chetwode 

(Jarrold,     Eng. ;      and 
Estes,  U.S.A.) 


Albert  Lee 
(Pilgrim  Press) 


"  May  Wynne  " 

(J.  Long,  and  Greening, 
Eng. ;  and  Putnam, 
U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(Religious  Tract  Society, 
Eng.  ;  and  Dodd, 
Mead,  U.S.A.) 


Chartres,  Paris,  &c.  about 
1562-72.  Time  of  the  Re- 
ligious Wars  and  St.  Bar- 
tholomew'sEve(Montaigne, 
Ronsard,  CharlesIX.,  &c.). 

France,  1567-72  :  Conde, 
Coligny,  King  and  Queen 
of  Navarre,  &c.  Covers 
the  Battles  of  Jarnac  and 
Moncontour,  and  ends  with 
St.  Bartholomew. 

Admiral  Coligny,  1568-72  : 
covers  the  Battle  of  Jarnac, 
the  murder  of  Conde,  the 
wedding  of  Henry  of  Na- 
varre, and  St.  Bartholo- 
mew. 

Durham  man  tells  (1626)  his 
youthful  experiences,  1 5  70- 
73.  France  (Charles  IX.)  ; 
Belgium  (Siege  of  Mons)  ; 
and  Poland  (Duke  of  An- 
jou's  election  as  King). 

Huguenots  in  France  and  the 
Netherlands :  Charles  IX., 
Catharine,  Coligny,  Prince 
of  Orange,  &c.  Ends  St. 
Bartholomew. 

France,  1572-83  ;  St.  Bar- 
tholomew, and  then  several 
years  later. 


Paris  (the  Night  of  St.  Bar- 
tholomew) ;  also  Southern 
France  and  Spain  (time 
of  the  Inquisition).  Philip 
of  Spain,  Henry  of  Na- 
varre, &c. 


a  An  unfinished  philosophical  romance.    Though  only  a  fragment,  this  book  has  been  classed 
very  high  by  leading  critics. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


305 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


JUV. 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


THE  SECRET  OF  THE    Lucie  M.  Hart 
GOLDEN  KEY.  Juv. I      (C.  H.  Kelly) 


*THE  ROSE  OF  DAU-    Philip  L.  Stevenson 

(Stanley  Paul  &  Co.) 


Portugal  in  1578. 


France  (Charles  IX.):  Hugue- 
not domestic  life,  and  the 
Massacre  of  St.  Bartholo- 


French  Wars  of  Religion, 
1574-6 :  Henry  of  Na- 
varre, Montbrun,  &c. 


FRANK  AND  SAXON.    G.  Manville  Fenn  England     (Elizabeth),     and 

Juv.  (Christian     Knowledge        France   (the    Massacre  of 

Society,    Eng.  ;     and  \      St.  Bartholomew,  Henry  of 
Gorham,  U.S.A.)  Navarre,  &c.). 


IN      SEARCH      OF 
JEHANNE 

&THE   MYSTERIES   OF 
UDOLPHO 

A  GALLANT  OF  GAS- 
CONY 


THE    ARK    OF    THE 
CURSE 

THE  KING'S  MIGNON 


*THE  COMING  OF  NA- 
VARRE.   Juv. 


Avis  Hekking 
(J-  Long) 


Mrs.  Ann  Radcliffe 
(Routledge) 

Philip  L.  Stevenson 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


"  K.  L.  Montgomery  ' 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(Everett  &  Co.) 


O.  V.  Caine 
(Nisbet  &  Co.) 


France  (St.  Bartholomew)  ; 
and  Italy,  mid  to  late  Six- 
teenth Century. 

Southern  France  and  Italy  in 
the  time  of  Henri  III. 

!  Marguerite  de  Valois,  1585-6 
(period  of  her  rupture  with 
Henry,  &c.). 

France  in  the  time  of  Henri 
III. :  the  Cagots. 

France,  1588,  and  the  Wars 
of  the  League ;  the  few 
months  after  the  assassina- 
tion of  the  Duke  of  Guise. 

English  boy's  adventures  in 
France,  1588  (just  after  the 
Armada).  Time  of  Henri 
III.,  the  Due  de  Guise,  and 
Henry  of  Navarre :  the 
Huguenot  victories,  1590. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  France  and  Spain  "  (Parker's  Talcs  Illustrating 
Church  History). 

b  Fault  having  been  found  with  me  for  the  omission  (deliberate)  of  this  very  famous  book,  I  now 
include  it ;  I  would,  however,  warn  intending  readers  that — whatever  the  tale's  merits  as  literature — 
as  historical  fiction  it  cannot  be  regarded  as  of  any  real  value. 

X 


306 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SIXTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE      ABBESS 
VLAYE 


Stanley  Weyman 
(Longmans) 


THE  GREY  DOMINO     i  Mrs.  Philip  C.  De  Cres- 

pigny 
(Nash) 

Enrique  Barreta 

(Mercure     de     France, 
Paris) 

F.  Whishaw 
(Longmans) 


«*LA  GLOIRE  DE  DON 
RAMIRE 


THE  TIGER  OF  MUS- 
COVY 


THE       CARDINAL'S 
PAWN 


"  K.  L.  Montgomery  " 
(Unwin,    Eng.  ;     and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 


*LA    PRINCESSE    DE    Maxime  Formont 
VENISE  (Lemerre,  Paris) 


BRAVE   SIDNEY 
SOMERS.     Juv. 


A  PRINCE  OF  DREAM- 
ERS 


[THE  SLAVE  GIRL  OF 
•iii  AGRA 


F.  M.  Holmes 
(Blackie) 


Flora  Annie  Steel 

(Heinemann,  Eng.  ;  and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 

Romesh  C.  Dutt 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


SUBJECT. 


France  in  1595.  Time  of 
Henri  IV. 

Southern  France  and  Paris 
about  1598  (Henry  of 
Navarre,  &c.). 

Spain  at  the  end  of  the  Six- 
teenth Century  (Philip  II.). 


Moscow  in  the  time  of  Ivan 
the  Terrible,  late  Sixteenth 
Century. 

Florence  and  Venice  about 
1580  (Francesco  de'  Medici). 


Venice,  1597. 


An  English  youth's  adven- 
tures during  a  voyage  to 
the  East  in  a  spice  ship. 
Later  Elizabethan  period. 

Akbar,  the  great  Mogul  Em- 
peror of  India. 


India  in  the  days  of  Akbar. 


a  Translated  from  the  Spanish  by  Remy  de  Gourmont.     A  powerful,  but  painful  book. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


307 


SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE   HAND   OF  THE  ;  Marion  Fox 
NORTH  (J.  Lane) 


QUEEN     ELIZABETH     Bernard  Capes 
(in       "  Historical         (Fisher  Unwin) 
Vignettes  ") 


His      MOST      DEAR    Beatrice  Marshall 
LADYE.     Juv.  (Seeley  &  Co.) 


GowRiE'sVENGEANCE.!  E.  Everett  Green 
Juv.  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

*THE  "  HALF  MOON  "  ,  Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
(Nash,    Eng. ;     and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 


*MARY  PAGET 


SHEPPERTON  MANOR. 
Juv. 


HEART'S  DELIGHT 
(THE  GREAT  MO- 
GUL) 


Minna  Caroline  Smith 
(Macmillan) 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Louis  Tracy 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng. ;  and 
Clode,  U.S.A.) 


Late  Elizabethan  London, 
1 60 1,  at  the  time  of  the 
Essex  plot  and  its  failure 
(Earl  of  Southampton,  Earl 
of  Essex,  &c.).  Then 
Hexham  (Northumber- 
land), and  the  wild  Border 
district. 

A  very  brief  but  vivid  story 
of  Queen  Elizabeth  on 
February  25th,  1601  (the 
beheading  of  Essex). 

Sir  Philip  Sidney's  sister,  the 
Countess  of  Pembroke. 
Salisbury,  &c.,  1599-1621  ; 
Shakespeare,  Massinger, 
Lady  Arabella  Stuart, 
James  I.,  &c. 

Scotland  in  1600  ;  the  Gow 
rie  Conspiracy. 

England  (Rye)  in  the  time  of 
James  I.  ;    then  the  New 
World  (Hudson,  the  Navi 
gator). 

About  equally,  England 
(Tavistock)  and  the  Bermu- 
das (St.  George's  Town)  in 
James  I.'s  reign.  Earl  of 
Southampton.Shakespeare, 
&c.  Period  c.  1610-20. 

English  Church  in  1616 : 
Bishop  Andrewes. 


Adventures    of    two    York- 
shiremen  in  India,  1611. 


308  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


JOHN  BROWN.  BUC- 
CANEER 


JOHN  O'JAMESTOWN 


JOHN  SMITH,  GENTLE- 
MAN ADVENTURER 


*Mv  LADY  POKAHON- 
TAS 


&THE  CHIEF'S  DAUGH- 
TER.   Juv. 

WITHIN  FOUR  WALLS 


THE  BRIGHT  FACE  OF 
DANGER 


G.  Griffith 
(F.  V.  White) 


Vaughan  Kester 
(McClure  Co.) 


C.  H.  Forbes-Lindsay 
(Lippincott) 

John  Esten  Cooke 

(Houghton,  Mifflin  &Co.) 


R.  King 

(Parker,  Oxford) 

J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(J.  Milne) 


R.  N.  Stephens 

(Nash,  Eng. ;  and  Page, 
U.S.A.) 


*ST.    MARTIN'S    SUM-  j  Rafael  Sabatini 
MER  (Hutchinson) 


*CARDILLAC 


Robert  Barr 

(Mills  &  Boon,  Eng.  ; 
and  F.  A.  Stokes, 
U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Begins  Seville,  1592  (the 
Inquisition)  ;  then  the 
West  Indies  early  Seven- 
teenth Century  (Devon 
adventurers  and  Span- 
iards). 

Captain  John  Smith,  and  the 
Settling  of  Jamestown, 
Virginia. 

The  Settling  of  Jamestown. 
Pocahontas,  &c. 

The  Settling  of  Jamestown, 
and  the  trading  with  In- 
dians, in  1607. 

Jamestown,  1607 :  Pocahon- 
tas, Captain  Smith,  &c. 

Paris  just  after  the  assassina- 
tion of  Henri  IV.,  in  1610 
(Marguerite  de  Valois,  Ra- 
vaillac,  &c.)  ;  then  Geneva, 
1612. 

France,  1608 :  a  story  of 
adventure. 


Domestic  tragi-comedy  in 
France  (Dauphiny)  about 
1615  :  period  of  Marie  de' 
Medici's  Regency. 

France,  1617-18 :  beginning 
of  Louis  XIII. 's  Reign. 
The  Queen-Mother,  Marie 
de'  Medici,  at  Blois. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  America  and  Our  Colonies  "  (Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


309 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*SAXBY.    Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Emma  Leslie 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


«THE  WINTER  QUEEN 


*SiR  BEVILL 


*THE  LADY  MARY  OF 
TAVISTOCK 


MORCAR 


6BoYs  OF  BALTIMORE. 
Juv. 


Marie  Hay 

(Constable,  Eng. ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin, 
U.S.A.) 


A.  C.  Thynne 
(J.  Lane) 


Harold  Vallings 
(J.  Milne) 


Thomas  Scott 
(Greening) 


A.  A.  B.  Stavert 
(Burns  &  Dates) 


SUBJECT. 


Bucks,  London,  &c.,  and 
New  England,  about  1619- 
44  :  period  of  the  Spanish 
Match,  Buckingham's  as- 
sassination, the  Star  Cham- 
ber, and  the  Civil  War 
(Hampden,  Milton,  and 
Cromwell  introduced). 


The  career  of  Elizabeth  of 
Bohemia,  daughter  of 
James  I.  of  England. 


Sir  Bevill  Grenville,  Cornish 
Royalist,  1595-1643  :  De- 
von and  Cornwall. 


Devon  about  1630 :  "  the 
infamous  Sir  Richard 
Granville." 


Northumberland  and  London 
about  1630  :  the  Family  of 
Morcar,  William  Dobson 
the  painter,  &c. 


Ireland  (Co.  Cork),  N.  Africa, 
and  London,  in  1 63 1 .  The 
adventures  of  two  boys 
carried  off  by  pirates  to 
Algiers,  and  sold  as  slaves. 
Lord  Wentworth  (Straf- 
ford),  "  Captain "  Crom- 
well, Laud,  and  Charles  I. 
appear. 


a  The  authoress  describes  her  work  as  "  a  romance."  While  not  a  novel  in  the  ordinary  sense, 
this  story  of  Elizabeth  Stuart  is  a  good  example  of  semi-fictional  biography. 

b  This  Roman  Catholic  tale  is  decidedly  interesting  and  well  written,  but  somewhat  partial  in 
its  tone.  Cromwell  is  depicted  (in  a  brief  interview)  as  a  sanctimonious  hypocrite. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE  FORERUNNER 


A  FAIR  HA  YEN.  Juv. 


A  SERVANT  OF  THE 
KING 

feGoD's  BAIRN.    Juv. 


THE  KING'S  LIEGE. 
Juv. 

THE  SEPARATIST 


THE  BINDING  OF  THE 
STRONG 


H.  Elwyn  Thomas 
(Lynwood  &  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

E.  Aceituna  Griffin 
(Blackwood) 

Dorothea  Moore 
(Blackie) 


H.  A.  Hinkson 
(Blackie) 


Anonymous 
(Sir  I.  Pitman) 


Caroline  Atwater  Mason 
(Hodder,     Eng. ;      and 
Revell,  U.S.A.) 


S.  Wales  (Breconshire,  Car- 
marthenshire, and  Cardi- 
ganshire) in  1635,  and  just 
after.  Early  Puritan 
struggles  as  viewed  by  a 
strong  sympathiser.  Old 
Welsh  manners  and  tradi- 
tions are  vividly  depicted 
in  this  romance  of  a  young 
travelling  evangelist. 

Nicholas  Ferrar,  1633. 


Earl  Stratford  up  to  his  trial 
and  death. 

Lincolnshire  Fen  district, 
1632-45 :  the  story  of  a 
boy  foundling  ;  also  1660. 

Plot  to  kidnap  Charles  I. 
at  Oxford  (pre-Rebellion 
period) . 

London,  Dublin,  &c.,  before 
and  during  the  Civil  War. 
Period  of  Strafiord,  Or- 
monde, Hampden,  and 
Pym  (the  last-named  ap- 
pears prominently). 


*ANDREW  MARVEL  AND  Marie  Hall 


His  FRIENDS 


(A.  Brown  &  Sons.  Hull 
and  London) 


The    love     story    of 
Milton,  the  poet. 


John 


Marvel,  the  poet.  Hull, 
1640-3  ;  and  Hull,  Lon- 
don, &c.,  1645-77 ;  ending 
with  Marvel's  death. 


a  Awarded  first  prize  at  the  Welsh  National  Eisteddfod.  It  may  be  mentioned  that  the  same 
author  has  written — in  the  original  Welsh — a  tale  of  Crornwellian  days  entitled,  "  Ifor  Owain  "  (Hughes. 
Wrexham). 

b  An  interesting  little  tale,  but  somewhat  too  anti-Puritan  in  its  tendency. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


ALL  FOR  THE  LOVE 
OF  A  LADY 


*WITH  MUSKETEER 
AND  REDSKIN  (WITH 
PURITAN  AND  PE- 
QUOT.)  Juv. 

OF    BOSTON. 


Juv. 


MY  LADY  OF  INTRI- 
GUE 


*THE  BRAVEST  GEN- 
TLEMAN IN  FRANCE. 
Juv. 

*BARDELYS  THE  MAG- 
NIFICENT 


•CADET-LA-PERLE 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Elinor  Macartney  Lane 
(Hodder,     Eng ;      and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 


W.  Murray  Graydon 
(Shaw,  Eng.  ;  and  Penn 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 


"  James  Otis  " 

(Appleton,  London ; 
and  American  Book 
Co.,  Chicago) 

Mary  E.  Stone  Bassett 
(Lothrop  &  Co.) 


Humfrey  Jordan 
(Blackwood) 


Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Rafael  Sabatini 
(E.  Nash) 


Leo  Claretie 

(Ollendorff,  Paris) 


SUBJECT. 


Edinburgh  and  the  Highlands 
about  1640  (French  Royal 
Duke's  courtship  of  a 
Scottish  lady). 

New  Plymouth,  1636 :  Gov- 
ernor Vane,  Anne  Hutch- 
inson,  Roger  Williams, 
Winthrop,  &c. 

|  Home  life  in  Massachusetts 
Bay  Colony,  1630  onwards  : 
Governor  Winthrop,  Roger 
Williams,  &c. 

!  Louis  XIII.,  Anne  of  Austria, 
and  Richelieu,  c.  1640 :  a 
somewhat  pathetic  tale  of 
a  maiden's  experiences  in 
the  King's  private  garden. 

Mainly  France  (Paris,  Ver- 
sailles, Nantes,  &c.),  1626- 
29.  Louis  XIII.,  Riche- 
lieu, Anne  of  Austria, 
Gaston  Due  d'Orleans,  and 
Marie  de  Rohan  (Duchesse 
de  Chevreuse). 

Paris  in  the  time  of  Richelieu: 
the  Due  de  Montmorency. 


Paris  and  Languedoc,  1632  : 
time  of  the  Orleanist  Re- 
bellion, and  the  Due  de 
Montmorency's  downfall. 
Louis  XIII.  at  Toulouse. 

Paris,  1635  :  Cardinal  Riche- 
lieu, &c. 


a.  One  of  a  very  useful  series  of  short  tales  written  for  children.  They  are  told  in  simple  langu,-  ge. 
and  deal  with  the  family  life  of  the  American  settlers.  Other  volumes  in  the  series  are,  "  Mary  of 
Plymouth  "  ;  "  Richard  of  Jamestown  "  ;  "  Calvert  of  Maryland  "  ;  "  Peter  of  New  Amsterdam  '  : 
and  "  Stephen  of  Philadelphia." 

b  The  dainty  format,  and  charming  illustrations  of  this  volume,  make  it  a  specially  suitable  gift 
for  older  girls. 


312 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 

SUBJECT. 


KNIGHTHOOD'S 
FLOWER 


THE  DUKE'S  MOTTO 


*THE       CARDINALS 
PAST 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Justin  H.  McCarthy 

(Methuen,  Eng. ; 

Harper.  U.S.A.) 


Michael  Kaye 
(Greening) 


and 


<*THE    SCHOOLMASTER  j  Carl    Heinrich    Caspari 
AND  His  SON.  Juv.  I      (trans.) 

i    (Wells  Gardner) 


*T  H  E    FOR  TUNE- 
HUNTER 


Harald  Molander  (trans.) 
(Heinemann) 


*A  TROOPER  OF  THE  !  Tom  Bevan 

FINNS.     Juv.  (Religious  Tract  Society) 


MY  LADY'S  Kiss 


Norman  Innes 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng. ;  and 
Rand,  McNally.U.S.A.) 


France  under  Louis  XI 11. 
The  persecution  of  the 
Huguenots ;  La  Rochelle 
(1628)  ;  and  the  death  of 
Cardinal  Richelieu  (1642). 

France  under  Louis  XII 1. 
Begins  in  the  earlier  stages 
of  Richelieu's  power  ;  then 
deals  with  the  period  after 
the  Cardinal's  death. 

Plot  against  Richelieu,  1626 
(favourable  depiction  of 
the  Cardinal).  Louis  XI 1 1., 
Anne  of  Austria  and  the 
Duchesse  de  Chevreuse. 

The  experiences  of  a  poor 
schoolmaster  in  Franconia, 
1610-39  (time  of  the 
Thirty  Years'  War). 

Germany :  Wallenstein  at 
the  Siege  of  Magdeburg, 
1629;  Gustavus  Adolphus, 
&c.  The  novel  depicts — 
powerfully  but  not  always 
pleasantly  —  the  adven- 
turer type  of  the  Thirty 
Years'  War  period. 

Tale  of  a  Scotsman  serving 
under  Gustavus  Adolphus 
in  1630  (Gustavus,  Prince 
Rupert,  Elizabeth  of  Ba- 
varia, &c.). 

Germany  in  1631  :  the  Thirty 
Years'  War  at  its  height. 


a  The  translator  (Mr.  J.  F.  Cobb)  says,  "  It  is  not  a  fictitious  tale,  but  a  simple  recital  of  historical 
events."  As,  however,  the  book  reads  like  fiction,  and  gives  a  vivid  picture  of  life  at  the  time,  I 
include  it.  In  this  note  I  may  allude  to  a  very  famous  German  novel,  J.  W.  Meinhold's  "  The  Amber 
Witch  "  (translated  by  Lady  Duff  Gordon,  1844)  ;  while  dealing  with  the  time  of  Gustavus  Adolphus 
and  the  Thirty  Years'  War,  the  book  is  not  historical  romance  in  the  true  sense  ;  moreover,  even  the 
latest  English  edition  (D.  Nutt  1895)  is  now  out  of  print. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURA— continued. 


313 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  I    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


cTHE     THORN     FOR- 
TRESS.    Juv. 


*THE  STORY  OF  A  CAT 
AND  A  CAKE.     Juv. 


THE  BLACK  CUIRAS- 
SIER 


THE  KING'S  SERVICE. 
Juv. 


ARROWS  OF  AMBITION 


*THE  WOMAN  AND  THE 
SWORD 


&THE  LAZAR  HOUSE  OF 
LEROS.     Juv. 

CDORES  DE  GUALDIM. 

Juv. 


Mary  Bramston 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  Bramston 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Philip  L.  Stevenson 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Deborah  Alcock 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


Albert  F.  Hochwalt 
(Mayhew  Publishing  Co. 
Boston) 

Rupert  Lorraine 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,  Oxford) 

J.  M.  Neale 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


SUBJECT. 


Germany  in  1631  :  Gustavus 
Adolphus. 


Nuremberg  and  Bohemia, 
1631-2 :  Gustavus  Adol- 
phus, and  the  Siege  of 
Nuremberg  by  Wallen- 
stein. 

General  Pappenheim's  cuiras- 
siers, and  the  Thirty  Years' 
War,  1632-4 :  Wallenstein 
up  to  his  death. 

Scotland  and  Germany,  1632 
onwards :  the  Thirty 
Years'  War  (Gustavus  and 
Wallenstein  period). 

A  romance  of  the  Thirty 
Years'  War. 


Somerset  and  London  (time 
of  Laud  and  the  Star 
Chamber)  ;  also  Germany, 
1634  :  the  Thirty  Years' 
War. 


The  Levant,  1635-8. 


The  Revolution  in  Portugal, 
1640  :  the  country  freed 
from  Spanish  rule. 


a  A  very  brief,  but  well-told  story  of  two  children,  and  their  experiences  in  the  Thirty  Years' 
War  period. 

6  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  Eastern  and  Northern  Europe  "  (Parker's 
Talcs  Illustrating  Church  History), 

c  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  France  and  Spain  "  (Parker's  Tales  Illustrating 
Church  History). 


314 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURA— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.          !    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER,    i 


SUBJECT. 


OF     RUPERT'S    H.  Strang  and  R.  Stead 
HORSE.     Juv.  (H.  Frowde  ;  and  Hod- 

der) 


MERRYLIPS  ,  Beulah  Marie  Dix 

(Macmillan) 


ELINOR  ARDEN,  ROY  A-  Mary  Constance  Du  Bois 
LIST.     Juv.  (Century  Co.) 


*AYLMER  COURT.  Juv.  ••  "  Henley  I.  Arden  " 
(Wells  Gardner) 


THE    PRISONER 
CARISBROOKE 


OF  !  S.  H.  Burchell 
(Gay  &  Bird) 


FAIRLEIGH 
Juv. 


HALL. 


THE  LADY  OF  LOYAL- 
TY HOUSE 


A.  D.  Crake 
(Mowbray) 


Justin  H.  McCarthy 

(Methuen,    Eng.  ; 

Harper,  U.S.A.) 


HER      FAITHFUL  |  W.  Bourne  Cooke 
KNIGHT  (Cassell) 


CAPTAIN  JOHN  LISTER  John  A.  Hamilton 
(Hutchinson) 


Charles  I.  and  the  Civil  War  : 
Yorkshire,  &c.,  1639-49- 
Edgehill,  Marston  Moor, 
and  Naseby. 

Girl  masquerades  as  a  boy  in 
the  English  Civil  War 
(Wilts). 

[  An  orphaned  Royalist  girl's 
adventures  in  Civil  War 
time.  Based  on  an  episode 
in  Princess  Henrietta 
Anne's  life. 

I 

!  Warwickshire  in  the  Civil 
War  (Oliver  Cromwell  pro- 
minent). 

I  Civil  War  period,  1641-49  : 
the  Governor  of  Caris- 
brooke  Castle  and  Charles 
I.  Much  of  the  story  deals 
with  London. 


Oxfordshire  in  the  Charles  I. 
— Restoration  period,  (i) 
1641-6 :  Edgehill  and 
Chalgrove — John  Hamp- 
den  ;  (2)  1652  ;  (3)  1660 
and  the  Restoration. 

i  Oxfordshire,  1642,  beginning 
and        just  before  Edgehill  (King 
Charles,  &c.). 

:  Nottingham  and  Leicester 
between  1641  and  1645 
(Cromwell  prominent). 

Tale  of  Axholme,  beginning 
1642.  The  hero  is  a  Par- 
liament man. 


a  One  of  Herbert  Strands  Historical  Series. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


315 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  ADVENTURES  OF    E.  C.  Kenyon  Civil     War,     1642-3 :      the 

TIMOTHY.     Juv.  (Religious  Tract  Society)       Battle   of    Edgehill ;     the 

King  at  Oxford  ;  and  an 
interview  with  Cromwell 
(Lincolnshire). 


«TRUE  GOLD.     Juv. 


bit}  THE  IRON  TIME 


Irene  Strickland  Taylor 
(Marshall  Bros.) 


J.  Wesley  Hart 
(Robert  Culley) 


*AMYAS        EGERTON, 
CAVALIER.     Juv. 


COURTENAY  OF  WAL- 
REDDON 


Maurice  H.  Hervey 

(Arrowsmith  Eng. ;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 


Mrs.  Anna  Eliza  Bray 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


FOR  RUPERT  AND  THE,  Herbert  Hayens 

KING.     Juv.  (Christian     Knowledge 

Society,  Eng. ;    and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


*FRIENDS    THOUGH  '  G.  A.  Henty 

DIVIDED.     Juv.  (H.  Frowde,and  Hodder 

Eng.  ;     and   Button, 
U.S.A.) 


Story  of  a  Captain  in  Crom- 
well's Horse,  1642-45  (Ric- 
hard Baxter  introduced). 

London  and  Huntingdon, 
but  chiefly  Cambridgeshire 
(Ely,  &c.),  1642-47  :  Crom- 
well and  his  mother  Eliza- 
beth Cromwell ;  Charles 
I.,  &c.  Battles  of  Edge- 
hill  and  Marston  Moor. 

Civil  War,  1642-49 :  Lord 
Capel,  &c.  Torrington, 
Oxford,  Worcester,  and 
Carisbrooke. 

Tavistock  and  district  in 
1 642 .  Contains  some  good 
local  colour. 

Yorkshire,  Hants,  Oxford, 
&c.,  1642-46  :  the  Battles 
of  Marston  Moor  and  Nase- 
by.  Prince  Rupert.Charles 
I.,  and  Cromwell. 

Oxford,  1642  ;  also  Scotland 
Ireland,  &c.  Covers  Mont- 
rose  and  the  Covenanters, 
Siege  of  Drogheda,  execu- 
tion of  Charles,  and  the 
Battle  of  Worcester.  Ends 
1660. 


a  It  is  worthy  of  note  that  this  tale — showing  strong  Puritan  sympathies — is  written  by  a  young 
lady  of  sixteen. 

b  Written  from  the  Cromwellian  standpoint. 


316  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEVENTEENTH  CENTURA— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a*THE    CHANCES    OF    T.  A.  Finlay  The  War  in  Ireland,  1646-49: 

WAR  (Fallon,     Dublin    and         Battle    of    Benburb    and 


Belfast) 


Ireton's  advance  on  Lime- 
rick, &c.  Owen  Roe  O'Neill 
and  others. 


THE    INVADERS    OF  ,  Edith  E.  Cowper  \  Cirencester  district  in    1642 

FAIRFORD.     Juv.  (Christian     Knowledge  ,      (Cromwell). 

Society,    Eng.  ;    and  ! 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


THE  SIEGE  OF  LICH-    W.  Gresley 
FIELD.     Juv.  (Masters) 


*A    YOUNG    OXFORD    "  Sarah  Tytler " 


MAID.     Juv. 


(Religious  Tract  Society) 


Two   LITTLE    CAVA-  j  W.  A.  Bettesworth 
LIERS.     Juv.  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


THE    SCHOLAR    AND  [  W.  E.  Heygate 
THE  TROOPER  (Parker,  Oxford) 

COLONEL       STOW  j  H.  C.  Bailey 

(COLONEL   GREAT-  !      (Hutchinson,  Eng. ;  and 
HEART)  Bobbs-Merrill,U.S.A.) 


•A  BEARER  OF  DES-  j  Emily  Loch 

PATCHES.     Juv.  (Christian     Knowledge 

Society,   Eng. ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

THE       COPERNICAN  |  A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 
CONVOY  (in  "  Cor-        (Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 
poral  Sam,"  &c.) 


Civil  War  from  1642  :  Lich- 
field,  Battle  of  Edgehill, 
&c. 

Oxford  in  the  Charles  I.  and 
Parliament  period :  Wil- 
liam Prynne,  the  Plague  in 
1643,  &c. 

Civil  War,  1643  :  Hants  and 
Oxford  (King  Charles, 
Cromwell,  &c.). 

Oxford,  1643-6  :  Charles  1., 
the  Siege  by  Fairfax,  &c. 

Civil  War,  1643  onwards 
(Cromwell  prominent). 
Deals  more  with  the  man- 
ners and  typical  characters 
of  the  period  than  with  the 
War. 

The  Siege  of  Lynn,  1643. 


Farnham  and  district  in  the 
Civil  War,  1643. 


a  One  or  two  other  tales  dealing  with  the  Ireland  of  this  exact  period  are  described  in  "  A  Reader's 
Guide  to  Irish  Fiction,"  by  Stephen  J.  Brown,  S.J.  (Longmans). 


SUPPLEMENT. 


SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY—  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


FOR  KING  OR  PARLIA- 
MENT 


A    ROSE   OF   YORK. 
Juv. 


THE    Two    SWORDS. 
Juv. 


*AT  LATHOM'S  SIEGE. 
Juv. 


CAPTAIN  WYVERN'S 
ADVENTURES  (in 
"  Shakespeare's 
Christmas,"  &c.) 

RED  VELVET  (in 
"  Corporal  Sam," 
&c.) 

ONE  FAIR  ENEMY 


*MAID  MOLLY 


HERBERT   TRESHAM. 
Juv. 


*!N    THE    SMOKE    OF 
WAR 


SUBJECT. 


S.  Horton  A     Yorkshire    Parliamenta- 

(R.  Culley)  rian's  adventures  :    Mars- 

ton  Moor  (1644)  and  Ponte- 
fract.  Cromwell,  Andrew 
Marvell,  Sir  Harry  Vane, 
&c. 

Florence  Bone  York  and   its   surrender  to 

(Religious  Tract  Society)  Fairfax  in  1644:  the 
General's  saving  of  the 
Minster,  &c. 


Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley  &  Co.) 


"  Sarah  Tytler 
(Blackie) 


Bristol,  1644-5  :  visit  of 
Charles  II.  (as  Prince),  &c. 
Ends  with  the  Bristol  of 
1662. 

Siege  of  Lathom  House  (Lady 
Derby)  by  Sir  Thomas 
Fairfax  in  1644. 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch  Cornwall  (Fowey  district)  in 

(Smith,     Elder,     Eng.  ;         1644  :   the  Civil  War. 
and  Longmans, U.S.  A.) 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


Carlton  Dawe 
(J.  Long) 

A.  G.  Hales 
(Treherne) 


J.  M.  Neale 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


Ditto. 


Civil   War,    1645  : 
&c. 


Naseby, 


Naseby  and  district  in  1645  : 
Cromwell,  Lord  Essex, 
Prince  Rupert,  &c. 

Northamptonshire,  London, 
&c.,  in  1645  :  the  Battle 
of  Naseby.  King  Charles, 
Prince  Rupert,  &c. 


Walter  Raymond  Somerset  (Langport,  Somer- 

(Arrowsmith,  Eng.;  and        ton,    &c.)    in    1645 :     the 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.)  Fairfax  v.  Goring  period. 

A  glimpse  of  Cromwell. 


318  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE  KING'S  CAUSE 


SWEET  ROGUES 


Two     GIRLS     IN    A 
SIEGE.    Juv. 


His   MAJES  TY'S 
GLOVE.    Juv. 


*THE       WREATHED 
DAGGER 


*THE  ROYALIST  BRO- 
THERS.   Juv. 


THE  FAIR  MAID  OF 
GREYSTONES 

WHEN       CROMWELL 
CAME  TO  DROGHEDA 

CAPTAIN  LATYMER 


*MAGNUS  SINCLAIR 


*OF  MISTRESS  EVE 
(Sequel) 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Walter  E.  Grogan 
(J.  Milne) 

Owen  Vaughan 
(Duckworth) 


Edith  C.  Kenyon 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


G.  I.  Whitham 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Margaret  Young 
(Cassell) 


E.  E.  Crake 
(Christian     Knowledge 

Society,   Eng.  ;    and 
Gorham.  U.S.A.) 

Beulah  Marie  Dix 
(Macmillan) 

R.  McDonnell 
(GiU,  Dublin) 

F.  Frankfort  Moore 
(Gassell) 


SUBJECT. 


Prince  Rupert's  capture  of 
Bristol,  and  his  later  sur- 
render to  Fairfax. 

Civil    War  on    the  Welsh 

Border :  one    of  Prince 

Rupert's  captains  about 
1645. 

S.  Wales  (Cardiff),  1643-6. 
Charles  I.  at  Raglan  ;  the 
taking  of  Chepstow  Castle 
by  the  Royalists,  &c. 

Attempted  rescue  of  Charles 
I.  in  1646  ;  later  on — after 
the  King's  death — Crom- 
well is  outwitted  by  a 
woman,  a  girl,  and  a  lad. 

Civil  War,  1642,  and — almost 
entirely — 1648  :  the  siege 
of  Thirlby  House  by  Crom- 
well. 

France  (Dieppe)  and  England 
in  1648  :  the  Siege  of  Col- 
chester (Sir  Charles  Lucas) . 

Suffolk  in  1648,  after  the 
surrender  of  Colchester. 

A  short  tale  of  1649. 


Barbadoes,  and  Ireland  (just 
after  Drogheda)  in  the 
Civil  War  time :  Prince 
Rupert,  &c. 

(1)  Mainly          Northumber- 
land, 1649-51  :  Cromwell, 
Charles  II.,   Argyle,   Har- 
rison, &c. 

(2)  The   Border   country   in 
the    period    between    the 
Battle   of   Worcester   and 
the  Restoration. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


319 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*MAJOR  WEIR 


*THE  RED  REAPER 


flCAVALIER  AND  COVE- 
NANT 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


"  K.  L.  Montgomery  " 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


John  A.  Steuart 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


G.  Eyre-Todd 
(Routledge) 


SUBJECT. 


THE  SAFETY  OF  THE  ;  "  Allan  M'Aulay 
HONOURS  (Blackwood) 


SCOUTING  FOR  A  KING!  Ernest  Protheroe 
Juv.  (Jarrold) 


THE  TAVERN  KNIGHT 


Rafael  Sabatini 

(Grant  Richards ;  and 
The  Amalgamated 
Press) 


THE    LAST    OF    THE  ;  G.  I.  Whitham 

WHITE  COATS.  Juv.\       (Seeley,  Eng.  ;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

UNDER  THE  STORM.    Charlotte  M.  Yonge 


Juv. 


(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


To  HORSE  AND  AWAY.  Frances  Mary  Peard 
Juv.  (National  Society,  Eng.; 

and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


*To  PLEASURE 
MADAME  (THE  SONS 
OF  THE  SEIGNEUR) 


Helen  Wallace 

(Cassell,  Eng.;  and  Out- 
ing Publishing  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Edinburgh,  and  Weir  the 
Covenanter.  Royalists  and 
Presbyterians. 

Marquis  of  Montrose  and  his 
rival  Argyle.  Ends  with 
Montrose's  execution  in 
1650. 

Cromwell's  invasion  of  Scot- 
land, 1650. 

The  hiding  of  the  Scottish 
Regalia  from  Cromwell, 
and  the  Siege  of  Dunottar 
Castle. 

England  (Midlands),  1646 ; 
then  1651— Battle  of  Wor- 
cester. Charles  II.'s  flight 
(Boscobel,  &c.). 

Penrith  and  Worcester,  1651 
(Charles  II.'s  escape)  ;  then 
Norfolk  (Sheringham),  &c. 
The  historical  element  is 
slight. 

Hunted  Cavaliers  and  Charles 
II.  just  after  Worcester. 


Bristol  and  neighbourhood  in 
the  Civil  War ;  time  of 
Charles  II.'s  escape  after 
Worcester. 

Charles  II.  after  Worcester  : 
the  South  of  England. 


Story  based  on  the  tradition 
of  Charles  II.'s  refuge  in 
Guernsey. 


a  Originally  entitled,  "  Anne  of  Argyle  ;  or  Church  and  Covenant." 


320 


SUPPLEMENT. 


SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


A  ST.  GEORGE  OF 
KING  CHARLES' 
DAYS.  Juv. 


SUNDER 

RULE. 


PURITAN 
Juv. 


a WHEN  THE  PURITANS 
WERE  IN  POWER. 
Juv. 


Dorothea  Townshend 
(Christian     Knowledge 
Society,    Eng. ;     and 
Gorhain,  U.S.A.) 

Agnes  Giberne 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


E.  E.  Crake 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


THE  KING'S  SIGNET     "  Morice  Gerard  " 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


BIG  JOHN  BALDWIN 


*RUTH    RAVELSTAN. 
Juv. 


6DIANA    POLWARTH. 

Juv. 

*SCAPEGRACE    DlCK. 

Juv. 


Wilson  Vance 

(Arrowsmith.Eng.;  and 
Holt,  U.S.A.) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Miss  J.  M.  Carter 
(Seeley,  Eng. ;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

Frances  Mary  Peard 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Crom well  in  1651  :  the  period 
just  after  Worcester. 


English  Church  and  Family 
life  before,  during,  and 
after  the  Civil  War.  Lon- 
don and  district :  Arch- 
bishop Laud,  Bishop  Mor- 
ton, &c. 

Sussex,  London,  and  New 
England,  1645-60  (Crom- 
well, &c.). 


A  Cavalier  family  from  1651 
to  the  Restoration. 

Supposed  diary  of  a  Crom- 
wellian  officer  :  England  in 
the  Charles  I. — Common- 
wealth period,  and  the 
Colony  of  Virginia.  Hamp- 
den,  Pym,  &c. 

England,  1649-60 :  Common- 
wealth period.  The  at- 
tempt on  Cromwell's  life, 
&c. 

Girl  life  in  the  Common- 
wealth period  (John  Eve- 
lyn). 

Somerset  (Taunton)  and  the 
Netherlands  in  the  Com- 
monwealth period :  Ad- 
miral Blake  and  Van 
Tromp. 


a  Decidedly  anti-Puritan,  but  interesting. 

6  Like  so  many  well-written  juvenile  books  dealing  with  the  English  Civil  War  period,  this  story 
reveals  an  undue  pro-Cavalier  bias  ;  it  is  a  pity  that  the  two  sides  (King  and  Parliament)  are  not 
more  evenly  balanced  in  fiction. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURA— continued. 


321 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*SEA  PURITANS 


PRINCE  RUPERT  THE 
BUCCANEER 

MEMOIRS  OF  A  BUC- 
CANEER 


THE    RED   MEN    OF 
THE  DUSK 


THE    NEST   OF   THE 
SPARROWHAWK 


A  PURITAN  KNIGHT 
ERRANT.    Juv. 


*  WEEPING  CROSS 


THE  JUDGES'  CAVE. 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Frank  T.  Bullen 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


C.  J.  Cutcliffe  Hyne 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 

R.  Williams 
(Mills  &  Boon) 


John  Finnemore 

(C.  A.   Pearson,   Eng. ; 
and  Lippincott,U.S.A.) 


"  Baroness  Orczy  " 

(Greening,   Eng.  ;     and 
Stokes,  U.S.A.) 

Edith  Robinson 

(Jarrold,     Eng. ;      and 
Page,  U.S.A.) 


Henry  L.  Stuart 

(Chatto,     Eng. ;      and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 


'  Margaret  Sidney 
(Lothrop  &  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


Admiral  Blake  from  1643, 
and  the  period  of  his  fights 
with  the  Dutch,  up  to  his 
victory  over  the  Spaniards 
at  Santa  Cruz  in  1657. 
Lyme  Regis,  &c.,  and 
Abroad. 

W  Indies,  c.  1651 :  Rupert 
merely  as  hero-adventurer. 

Days  of  Admiral  Blake, 
1656-65.  Cadiz,  Santa 
Cruz,  West  Indies,  and 
England  (The  Plague). 

A  Worcestershire  man's  re- 
cord (supposed  to  be 
written  in  1660)  of  his 
adventures,  some  years 
before,  among  the  Welsh 
hills. 

Isle  of  Thanet  in  the  later 
period  of  the  Common- 
wealth. 

New  England  (Boston)  in  the 
second  quarter  of  the 
Seventeenth  Century  ;  time 
of  Winthrop,  Vane,  &c. 

Massacre  by  the  Indians  at 
Long  Meadow,  Massachu- 
setts, in  1652  :  the  imagi- 
nary record  of  a  Jesuit 
priest  deported  by  Crom- 
well. 

New  England  (New  Haven 
Colony)in  mid-Seventeenth 
Century :  hiding-place  of 
the  Judges  who  tried 
Charles  I. 


322 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY—  continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

I 

*THE     COMPANY 
DEATH 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


A.  L.  Cotton 
(Blackwood) 


*MY     SWORD'S      MY    Herbert  Hayens 
FORTUNE.    Juv.  (Collins) 


BEGGARS'  LUCK 


Nellie  K.  Blissett 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


*THE    LITTLE 
Juv. 


KING.    Charles  Major 
(Macmillan) 


Louis   OF   BOURBON    Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(in        "  Historic        (Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Boys  ").     Juv.  Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Naples  in  1647  :  Masaniello 
and  Salvator  Rosa. 

Cardinal  Mazarin,  1650-53. 
France  in  the  days  of 
Turenne  and  Conde. 

Adventure  in  mid-Seven- 
teenth Century  France : 
Cardinal  Mazarin. 

Louis  XIV.  as  a  child,  and 
his  nurse :  various  ex- 
periences. Mazarin,  the 
QueenRegent,  &c.,  1646-48. 

Paris,  1651  :  Louis  XIV. 's 
boyhood,  and  the  Fronde. 


THE  LOVERS  OF 
YVONNE  (SUITORS 
OF  YVONNE) 

THE  WERE- WOLF 


Rafael  Sabatini 

(Pearson,    Eng. ;     and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

W.  B.  Beattie 
(Stanley  Paul) 


UNTRUE      TO       His  )  Henry  Johnson 

TRUST.     Juv.  (Religious  Tract  Society) 


THE     QUEEN'S    FA-  !  Eliza  F.  Pollard 
VOURITE.    Juv.  (Blackie) 


Paris  and  Blois  in  the  time  of 
Mazarin  and  the  Fronde. 


France  in  mid-Seventeenth 
Century  :  time  of  Anne  of 
Austria,  Cardinal  de  Retz, 
Ninon  de  1'Enclos,  &c.  A 
Grand  Seigneur's  treat- 
ment of  his  peasantry,  &c. 

London  preceding  and  follow- 
ing the  Restoration,  i.e.  in 
1660  and  1665.  General 
Monk,  Richard  Baxter,  &c. 

Queen  Henrietta  Maria 
(Charles  I.'s  widow)  at  the 
Restoration  :  Holland  and 
England.  Covers  the 
Plague,  the  Dutch  sea- 
fight,  and  the  Fire. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


323 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  '    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  COMING  OF  THE 

KING 


Joseph  Hocking 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.;  and 
Little,  Brown,  U.S.A.) 


PRINCE       RUPERT'S    Emily  Weaver 
NAMESAKE.     Juv.         (Oliphant) 


A     HERO 
STRIFE. 


IN     THE    Louisa  C.  Silke 
Juv. 


(Religious  Tract  Society) 


FOR    A    FREE    CON-  |  L.  C.  Wood 
SCIENCE  (Headley) 


London  district,  Folkestone, 
and  Bedford,  at  the  Re- 
storation ;  the  Black  Box, 
said  to  contain  the  mar- 
riage contract  between 
Charles  II.  and  Lucy 
Walters.  John  Bunyan 
and  various  historic 
figures. 

Restoration  days  in  the 
Southern  Counties  and  in 
London  (Newgate,  &c.). 

Persecuted  Puritans  in  Re- 
storation time,  beginning 
1661  ;  Plague,  &c. 

Quakers  and  their  troubles  in 
the  Plague  and  Fire  Period 
(Charles  II.). 


THE  ROYAL  QUAKER  j  Mrs.  Bertram  Tanqueray    j  Jane    Stuart,    daughter    of 
(Methuen)  James,    Duke    of    York  ; 

Penn  and  Fox,  &c. 


THE  PROFLIGATES 


Frida  Wynne 
(H.  J.  Drane) 


THE   KING'S   GUER-  ;  J.  Blyth 

DON  (Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


Charles  II.'s  Court,  &c. ;  the 
daughter  of  a  Puritan 
married  to  a  Cavalier. 

Norfolk  marshes ;  Charles 
II.,  Pepys,  Rochester,  &c. 
Time  of  the  Plague  and  the 
fighting  with  the  Dutch. 


*AN  AFFAIR  OF  Dis-  |  Wm.  de  Morgan  j  Crime  and  mystery  (Suffolk, 

HONOUR  (Heinemann,  Eng. ;  and  |      &c.)    in    the    Restoration 

Holt,  U.S.A.)  period :      the     Dutch     in 

Southwold  Bay,  &c. 


A  LAD   OF  LONDON  j  E.  Everett  Green 
TOWN.     Juv.  (Pilgrim  Press) 

*MY    MERRY    ROCK-  I  Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 
HURST  (Smith,  Elder,  Eng.;  and 

Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 


The    Great    Plague ;      King 
Charles  II.,  &c. 

Charles  II.  and  the  Plague 
period. 


324  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE  GOLDEN  BUCKLE. 
Juv. 


Frederick  C.  Badrick 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


THE  GOLDSMITH  OF    Tom  Bevan 

CHEPE.     Juv.  (Religious  Tract  Society) 


MAD  BARBARA 


MISTRESS  NANCIEBEL. 
Juv. 


THE    SIGN    OF    THE 
RED  CROSS.    Juv. 


WHEN       LONDON 
BURNED.     Juv. 


THE  AMAZING  DUKE 


aMONSIEUR  THE  CAP- 
TAIN OF  THE  CARA- 
VEL (in  Brooks' 
"  Chivalric  Days.") 
Juv. 

MISTRESS  NELL 


Warwick  Deeping 
(Cassell,     Eng. ; 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 


and 


The  Plague  in  London,  and 
the  experiences  of  a  Hoi- 
born  hosier  and  his  family 
on  board  a  Thames  vessel 
during  fourteen  months. 

London  in  the  Plague  Year 
1665. 

Plague  period,  introducing 
Hortense  Mancini,  Pepys, 
Titus  Gates,  &c. 


Elsie  Jeanette  Oxenham       A  Quaker  girl  in  the  time  of 
(H.Frowde  ;  and  Hodder)       Charles    II.  ;     the    Dutch 
War    and    Plague    scenes 
in  Wales. 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


Sir  Wm.  Magnay 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Eugenie  Foa  (trans.) 
(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


London  and  the  Plague 
(Charles  II.)  ending  with 
the  Great  Fire  in  1666. 

London  at  the  time  of  the 
Plague,  the  sea-fights  with 
the  Dutch,  and  the  Great 
Fire,  1664-66. 

George  Villiers,  the  Second 
Duke  of  Buckingham,  from 
1665. 

The  Dutch  War  and  De 
Ruyter  in  1666  (North 
Sea). 


George  C.  Hazelton,  Jun.     Nell    Gwynn,    the    actress  ; 
(Murray,     Eng.  ;      and        introduces      Charles      II., 
Scribner,  U.S.A.)  Buckingham,      Rochester, 

James  Duke  of  York,  and 
the  Duchess  of  Ports- 
mouth. 


a  Translated  from  the  French  of  Madame  Eugenie  Foa  by  Elbridge  S.  Brooks. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURA— continued. 


325 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  !    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


•YESTERDAY'S 

MORROW 


To-  j  Dora  G.  McChesney 
(Dent  &  Co.) 


*THE  LADY  OF  LYTE 


Graham  Hope 
(Methuen) 


THE  OBLIGING  Hus-    Frank  Barrett 

BAND  (Chatto  &  Windus) 


THE     RYE     HOUSE 
PLOT 

*  DAVID  MARCH 


Geo.  W.  M.  Reynolds 
(J.  Dicks) 

J.  S.  Fletcher 
(Methuen) 


MARGARET  SOMERSET,  i  Louisa  C.  Silke 

Juv.  (Religious  Tract  Society) 


CHECKMATE  !  Etta  Courtney 

(E.  Arnold) 


THE  VINE  OF  SIBMAH 


Andrew  Macphail 
(Macmillan) 


SUBJECT. 


Mainly  London,  c.  1670. 
Historic  figures  are  pro- 
minent, including  Charles 
II.,  George  Fox,  Rupert, 
and  Monmouth.  The 
Quakers ;  a  Catholic  natu- 
ral son  of  the  King,  &c. 


The      Popish      Plot, 
(Charles  II.). 


1678 


A  LAD  OF  GRIT.  Juv.  \  Percy  F.  Westerman 
(Blackie) 


London  in  late  Charles  II. 
period ;  a  Fleet  Street 
draper  and  his  unusual 
marriage,  &c. 

Hertfordshire  and  London, 
1682-85. 

Yorkshire  (Wakefield  dis- 
trict), 1683  ;  also  London 
and  the  South.  Sir  Chris- 
topher Wren,  Charles  II., 
&c. 

A  girl's  diary,  1682-85 : 
Evelyn,  Bishop  Ken,  &c. 
Also  the  Battle  of  Sedge- 
moor  (Monmouth  Rebel- 
lion). 

Legitimate  son  of  Charles  II. 
who  passes  into  obscurity 
(Charles  II. — James  II. 
period). 

Puritan  New  England  in 
Charles  II. 's  time.  The 
hero  is  a  former  captain  of 
Oliver  Cromwell. 

West  Indies,  &c.,  and  Hol- 
land :  English  Restoration 
period  (Buccaneers,  pirates, 
&c.). 


326  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY —continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


•CARRIED  OFF.    Juv. 


A  LITTLE  PURITAN'S 
FIRST  CHRISTMAS. 
Juv. 

THE  KNITTING  OF 
THE  SOULS.  Juv. 


Esme  Stuart 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,U.S.A.) 


Edith  Robinson 
(Jarrold,     Eng.  ; 
Page,  U.S.A.) 


and 


CROMWELL   OF 
VIRGINIA.    Juv. 

STRADELLA 


*I  WILL  MAINTAIN 

•DEFENDER  OF  THE 
FAITH  (Sequel) 

PURPLE  LOVE 


Maude  Clark  Gay 

(Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shep- 
ard,  U.S.A.) 

Edward  S.  Ellis 

(Henry  T.  Coates  &  Co.) 

F.  Marion  Crawford 
(Macmillan) 


"  Marjorie  Bowen" 
(Methuen) 


j  "  Morice  Gerard  " 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


*THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
AN  EQUERRY 


*THE  SILVER  KEY 


"  Morice  Gerard 
(Cassell) 


Nellie  K.  Blissett 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


SUBJECT. 


Boy  taken  captive  by  Buc- 
caneers (Sir  Henry  Morgan) 
in  1670  :  West  Indies,  and 
the  Spanish  Main. 

New  England  in  Governor 
Bellingham's  time. 


Boston    and    King    Philip's 
War. 


Bacon's  Rebellion,  1676. 

Alessandro  Stradella,  the 
singer  and  composer : 
Venice  and  Rome  in  the 
time  of  Clement  X.,  Queen 
Christina,  Bernini,  &c. 

Holland  and  England:  the 
De  Witts  (tragedy  of  1672), 
William  of  Orange,  Charles 
II.,  Princess  Mary's  mar- 
riage, &c. 

William  of  Orange  and  Mary 
of  England  :  Courtship  and 
Marriage.  Holland,  and 
(mainly)  England,  in  1677. 

The  early  life  and  marriage 
(1678)  of  John  Churchill: 
England  and  Abroad.  The 
Siege  of  Maestricht ;  the 
Prince  of  Orange  at  Delft ; 
and  Louis  XIV.,  Turenne, 
Vauban,  &c. 

The  French  and  English 
Courts,  1669-70  :  Charles 
II.  and  his  sister,  the 
Duchess  of  Orleans. 


a  Sequel  to  the  author's  "  Uncrowning  a  King  "  (vide  p.  72)  ;    there   is  a  third  volume,  "  Th« 
Last  Emperor  of  the  Old  Dominion,"  dealing  with  the  Indian  War  time  (Coates' s  Colonial  Series). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY—  continued. 


327 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*A    DEMOISELLE    OF    W.  J.  Eccott 
FRANCE  (Blackwood) 


*His    INDOLENCE   OF 
ARRAS 


TRAITOR  AND  TRUE 


»THE  RED  NEIGHBOUR 


FROM  THE  ENEMY'S 
HAND.     Juv. 


*!N  THE  STRAITS  OF 
TIME 

A  DRAGOON'S  WIFE 


«THE  CROSS  AND  THE 
CROWN.    Juv. 


SUBJECT. 


W.  J.  Eccott 
(Blackwood) 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(J-  Long) 


W.  J.  Eccott 
(Blackwood) 


A  French  Abbe  (grandnephew 
of  Richelieu)  relates  his 
adventures  during  the  year 
1662 :  Louis  XIV.,  Col- 
bert, Foucquet,  Madeline 
and  Armande  Be j  art,  Moli- 
ere,  La  Fontaine,  &c. 
Paris,  Fontainebleau,  and 
the  road  to  Nantes. 

Picardy  and  Paris,  1665-67  : 
Louis  XIV.,  the  Cardinal 
Bishop  of  Arras,  Madame 
de  Montespan,  Turenne, 
Louise  de  la  Valliere, 
Ninon  de  1'Enclos,  &c. 

Norman  plot,  under  Prince 
de  Beaurepaire,  to  depose 
Louis  XIV.  :  the  King,  De 
Louvois,  &c. 

France  (Paris,  Meaux,  Mont- 
mirail,  &c.),  1675  :  De 
Louvois  and  Turenne,  end- 
ing with  the  latter' s  death 
at  Sassbach,  in  Germany. 
La  Fontaine  appears. 

H.  C.  Coape  France  (Rhone  district) under 

(Religious  Tract  Society) I  Louis  XIV. :  the  De  Lou- 
vois period,  1683-5.  The 
Huguenots  and  the  Revoca- 
tion of  the  Edict  of  Nantes. 


"  Christopher  Hare  " 
(Cassell) 

E.  Perronet  Thompson 
(Greening) 


Paris  and  Southern  France  in 
1684  :  the  Hugenots. 

Efforts  to  subdue  the  Hugue- 
nots     near      Fontevrault 
(France),  1685-7. 
i 

Deborah  Alcock  J  Normandy,  1685  :  theHugue- 

(Religious  Tract  Society)  nots  and  the  Revocation 
of  the  Edict  of  Nantes. 
Ends  in  England. 


a  One  of  two  fairly  long  stories  appearing  in  the  same  volume  ;   the  other  story,  "  The  King's 
Service,"  see  p.  313,  supplies  the  title. 


328 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*THE  FIELD  OF  GLORY 
(ON  THE  FIELD  OF 
GLORY) 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


H.  Sienkiewicz  (trans.) 
(J.    Lane,    Eng.  ;     and 
Little,  Brown,  U.S.A.) 


IN    WILD    MARATHA  j  Michael  Macmillan 
BATTLE.     Juv.  (Blackie) 


THE     PRINCESS 
BALKH.     Juv. 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
COUNT  O'CONNOR 


UNDER  THREE  KINGS 


*BEAUJEU 


TRELAWNY  OF  TRE- 
LAWNE 


SEVEN  CHAMPIONS. 
Juv. 

HONOUR  BEFORE 
HONOURS  (Sequel) 
(both  in  "Faith's 
First  Christmas," 
&c.).  Juv. 


LETTICE 
Juv. 


TEMPLE. 


Michael  Macmillan 
(Blackie) 


Henry  Stace 
(Alston  Rivers) 


William  K.  Hill 
(Routledge) 


H.  C.  Bailey 
(J.  Murray) 


Mrs.  Anna  Eliza  Bray 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


Maud  Vevers 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,U.S.A.) 


Poland,  1682—3  :  John  Sobie- 
ski. 


India  in  the  time  of  Sivaji, 
the  founder  of  the  Mah- 
ratta  Empire. 

A  Scotsman  in  the  Indian 
Wars  of  Aurungzebe,  the 
Mogul  Emperor :  Delhi, 
Kabul,  &c. 

Irish  Soldier  of  Fortune  in 
India:  Aurungzebe's 
Court.  An  imaginary  me- 
moir. 

England  in  the  Charles  II. — 
William  III.  period  :  Duke 
of  Monmouth,  Titus  Gates, 
Churchill,  &c. 

Charles  II.— William  III. 
period  :  James  II.  and  the 
Whigs. 

Time  of  James  II. :  Bishop 
Trelawny  in  London,  1685, 
and  his  relatives  in  Corn- 
wall. Full  of  local  know- 
ledge. 

(1)  The  Seven  Bishops  in  the 
Tower,  1688. 

(2)  Bishop  Ken,  1689. 


Bishop  Ken  in  1686. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


329 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  OAK  STAIRCASE,  j  Mary  and  Catherine  Lee       Mainly    Somerset   in    1685 

Tttll  n      "NTicHo-f-   Kr   Cr\\  fVio      MrtnTn/Mffh      T?phf>11io 


Juv. 


*MARTIN  HYDE.    Juv. 


AT  ALL  HAZARDS 


(J.  Nisbet  &  Co.) 


John  Masefield 
(Wells  Gardner) 


F.  H.  Freshfield 
(Geo.  Allen  &  Sons) 


*FAIRMEADOWS  FARM.    Mary  H.  Debenham 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
andWhittaker.U.S.A.) 


'FORTUNE'S  CASTAWAYJ  W.  J.  Eccott 
(Blackwood) 


MY     LADY     WENT-  ,  Allen  Fea 

WORTH  (Mills  &  Boon) 


*THE  BROWN  MASK     !  Percy  J.  Brebner 
(Cassell) 


the  Monmouth  Rebellion 
period.  Judge  Jeffreys, 
the  "  Maids  of  Taunton," 
&c.  Ends,  London  and 
district,  1695. 

England  (Dorset  and  Somer- 
set), Holland,  and  the  Sea, 
in  the  Monmouth  Rising 
period.  Boy  hero  is  in  the 
Duke's  service.  Mainly 
1684-85. 

Kent,  Oxford,  &c.,  1679-90. 
Time  of  the  Monmouth 
Rebellion  and  the  coming 
of  William. 

Hampshire,  1682-86.  Girl 
life  in  time  of  the 
Monmouth  Rebellion,  and 
Judge  Jeffreys  at  Win- 
chester. 

The  Duke  of  Monmouth  and 
Lady  Henrietta  Went; 
worth  :  England  and  Hol- 
land, 1683-85  (time  of  the 
Rye  House  Plot  and  the 
Monmouth  Rebellion). 
William  of  Orange,  James 
II.,  the  Churchills,  Judge 
Jeffreys,  &c. 

The  love  story  of  the  Duke  of 
Monmouth  and  Henrietta, 
Lady  Wentworth. 

Hants,  Somerset,  London, 
and  Dorchester,  1685 : 
the  Monmouth  Rebellion 
period.  The  mystery  of  a 
highwayman's  identity. 


330 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE  RED  SEAL 


"  Morice  Gerard 
(Cassell) 


FOR  THE  HONOUR  OF    H.  Barton  Baker 


His  HOUSE 

RED  CAVALIER 
BEAUTY  RETIRE 


(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


Lewis  Ramsden 
(Sisleys,  Ltd.) 

Dora  Mellor 
(Greening) 


SUBJECT. 


N.  Somerset  Coast,  London, 
and  Taunton,  1685  :  James 
II.  (good  depiction)  and 
Judge  Jeffreys  are  both 
prominent.  Monmouth 
Rebellion  merely  as  back- 
ground. 

Monmouth  Rebellion  (Sedge- 
moor),  and  the  period  up 
to  the  flight  of  James  II. 
Nat  Lee,  the  dramatist,  is 
introduced. 


Monmouth     Rebellion 
Judge  Jeffreys. 


and 


England  and  Jamaica  in 
James  II.  period :  Judge 
Jeffreys,  &c. 


N  ANTHONY    WILDING    Rafael  Sabatini  |  Bridgwater,  Taunton,  Lyme 

(ARMS    AND     THE  !      (Hutchinson,  Eng.  ;  and1      Regis,  &c.,  in  1685  ;    the 
MAID)  Putnam,  U.S.A.)  Duke  of  Monmouth  and  his 

followers  (Lord  Grey,  &c.). 


THE    CHARIOTS 
THE  LORD 


Joseph  Hocking 

(Religious  Tract  Society, 
Eng. ;  and  Eaton  & 
Mains,  U.S.A.) 


England  (London,  Somerset, 
&c.),  and  Holland,  1685- 
88  :  Battle  of  Sedgemoor, 
the  Seven  Bishops,  and  the 
coming  of  William.  Duke 
of  Monmouth,  Bishop  Tre- 
lawny,  Richard  Baxter, 
James  II.,  &c. 

GALLOPING  DICK  A  trilogy  depicting  the  ex- 
periences   of    a    highwav- 

THE    HIGH    TOBY      |  H.  B  Marriott  Watson  man,  known  as  "  Galloping 

(Seauel)                         (*•  J;  }***  ;  Dick,"  in  the  Charles  II.— 

2>  ^hU.eno:  James  II.  period. 
THE  KING'S  HIGH-            3-  Mills  &  Boon) 
WAY  (Sequel)            ' 

*CAPTAIN  MARGARET  '  John  Masefield  J  S.  Devon,  Cornwall,  and  the 

(Grant  Richards,  Eng.  ;        Spanish  Main  (islands  off 
and  Lippincott.U.S. A.)  '      Darien),  about  1685-88. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


331 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE  ISLAND  PROVI-  I  Frederick  Niven 
DENCE  (J.  Lane) 

*THE  PARSON'S  WOOD    Violet  A.  Simpson 
(E.  Nash) 

THE     WEAVING     OF    Maud  Stepney  Rawson 


SUBJECT. 


GYSELE  ESPINETTE 
(in  "  Tales  of  Rye 
Town  ") 

THE  BROKEN  SWORD 


(Constable) 


"  Morice  Gerard  " 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


CHECK  TO  THE  KING    "  Morice  Gerard  " 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


FOR  PRINCE  OR  POPE  j  James  Gissingham 
(Greening) 


*  BIBLE  AND  SWORD 


aFoR     CROWN 
COVENANT. 


*'!HE    CHERRY 

BAND 


AND 

Juv. 


RIB- 


P.  Hay  Hunter 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


Cyril  Grey 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


S.  R.  Crockett 
(Hodder.    Eng. ; 
Barnes,  U.S.A.) 


and 


N.  Devon  (Hartland)  and  the 
Spanish  Main,  about  1685- 
88  (Cartagena). 

English  village  life  in  1688  : 
Papist  and  Protestant. 

Winchelsea,  1688  (Fugitive 
Huguenots). 


London  in  1688  :  James  II.'s 
Declaration  of  Indulgence 
and  the  Bishops.  Lady 
Russell,  Lord  Shrewsbury. 
&c. 

James  II.'s  downfall  and  the 
coming  of  William  :  time 
of  Lord  Churchill  (after- 
wards Duke  of  Marl- 
borough). 

A  Devon  man  in  Maldon, 
Essex,  just  before  the 
landing  of  William  of 
Orange,  1688. 

Scotland  (Charles  II. — James 
II.).  Time  of  Claverhouse 
and  William  Cleland,  the 
Covenanting  poet. 

Scotland  and  Holland,  1680- 
88  :  the  Cameronians, 
Claverhouse,  Duke  of  Mon- 
mouth,  &c. 

Scotland  (Dumfries  and  the 
Island  of  the  Bass)  in 
Charles  II. — James  II. 
period.  The  Covenanters ; 
Claverhouse,  James  II..&C. 


a  Mr.  Grey  has  written  another  tale  of  Scotland  and  the  Covenanters,  "  The  Lost  Earldom  " 
(Religious  Tract  Society).  Both  these  romances  depict  the  religious  and  political  struggles  of  the 
Revolution  (1688)  from  the  Covenanting  standpoint. 


332  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  i    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER.     ' 


SUBJECT. 


*A    LITTLE 
Juv. 


CANDLE. 


*THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE 
GOLDEN  SWORD 


*GRAHAM  OF  CLAVER- 
HOUSE 


RONALD  LINDSAY 


*THE  GLEN  O'  WEEP- 
ING (THE  MASTER 
OF  STAIR) 

LOVE  is  LIFE 


a*ORANGE  AND  GREEN. 

Juv. 


FOR    THREE    KING- 
DOMS 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

Michael  Barrington 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


Ian  Maclaren  " 

(J.  Murray,  Eng.  ;  and 
Authors  &  News- 
papers Association, 
U.S.A.) 


"  May  Wynne 
(J.  Long) 


"  Marjorie  Bowen  " 
(Alston   Rivers,    Eng. ; 
and  McClure,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Stackpoole  Kenny 
(Greening) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

H.  C.  Crosfield 
(Elliot  Stock) 


COUSIN  ISABEL.    Juv.   Marion  Andrews 
(Wells  Gardner) 


Scotland,  1688-89  (Claver- 
house) ;  and  France  (St. 
Germains  district) ,  1 689-95. 

John  Graham  (Claverhouse) .   -* 
1683-89 :      ending    Killie-" 
crankie.  Charles  II.,  James 
II.,    Waller,    Pepys,    and 
others  introduced. 

The  Low  Countries  (Battle  of 
Senefie,  1674)  '•  tnen  Scot- 
land, 1684-89.  Claverhouse 
at  Paisley,  Dudhope,  and 
Edinburgh — ending  Killie- 
crankie. 

Time  of  Claverhouse,  ending 
with  the  Battle  of  Killie- 
crankie. 

The  Massacre  of  Glencoe, 
1692  :  Sir  John  Dalrymple, 
ist  Earl  of  Stair. 

Jacobites  in  France  and  Ire- 
land at  the  time  of  the 
Revolution  (William  of 
Orange). 

Ireland,  1688-91  :  the  Sieges 
of  Derry  and  Limerick,  and 
the  Battle  of  the  Boyne. 

Ireland  in  the  James  II.  and 
William  of  Orange  period  : 
the  Battle  of  the  Boyne. 

Ireland,  1688-91  :  the  Siege 
of  Londonderry. 


"The 
adventure  story' 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


333 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


«*THE  FORTUNES  OF 
COLONEL  TORLOGH 
O'BRIEN 


My  SWORD  FOR  PAT- 
RICK SARSFIELD 


*!N  SARSFIELD'S  DAYS 


THE  KING'S  CHAM- 
PION (in  "  Histori- 
cal Vignettes  ") 

MY  LADY  OF  CLEEVE 


*THE  KING'S  SPY  (THE 
GIRL  WHO  WON) 


*MY  LADY  BELLAMY. 
Juv. 


*  A  LADY  OF  METTLE 
(Sequel  to  "  My 
Lady  Bellamy"). 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


J.  Sheridan  Le  Fanu 
(Routledge) 


SUBJECT. 


R.  McDonnell 
(Gill,  Dublin) 


L.  McManus 
(Gill,  Dublin) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Percy  J.  Hartley 

(Stevens,    Eng.  ;      and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

Beth  Ellis 

(Blackwood,  Eng. ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead.  U.S.A.) 


Dorothea  Moore 
(Nisbet) 


Dorothea  Moore 
(S.  W.  Partridge) 


Begins  London  district,  1686; 
then  (Chapter  II.  onwards) 
Ireland — Munster,  Dublin, 
&c.,  1689-91,  ending  with 
Battle  of  Aughrim.  James 
II.,  Tyrconnel,  Sarsfield, 
and  William  of  Orange. 

General  Sarsfield's  struggle 
for  the  Jacobite  cause  in 
Ireland. 

The  Siege  of  Limerick,  1690. 
Sarsfield,  William  of 
Orange,  and  other  his- 
torical figures. 

William  III.  just  after  his 
coronation  in  1689 :  a 
comic  episode. 

Devonshire  in  the  early  part 
of  William  III.'s  reign. 


Jacobite  intrigues  in  the 
early  William  III.  period 
(Herefordshire)  :  John 
Churchill  and  Sarah  Jen- 
nings. 

Jacobite  adventure  in  1690  : 
London,  Edinburgh,  &c. 
William  III.  and  Mary  at 
Kensington  Palace. 

Windsor,  London,  &c.,  1695- 
96  :  William  III.,  Princess 
Anne,  Thomas  Wharton, 
and  others.  Jacobite  con- 
spiracy. 


a  Originally  published  anonymously. 


334 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


MY  LADY  CLEMENCY  •.  Maud  Stepney  Rawson 
GOES     DOWN     TO  j      (Constable) 
RYE  (in  "  Tales  of  | 
Rye  Town  ") 


MY  LADY  CLEMENCY 
WELCOMES  A  GUEST 
(in  "  Tales  of  Rye 
Town  ") 

*MY  LADY  CLANCARTY  ! 


Maud  Stepney  Rawson 
(Constable) 


M.  Imlay  Taylor 

(Gay  &  Bird,  Eng.  ;  and 

Little,  Brown.U.S.A.) 


*THE  FIRST  LIGHT  ON 
THE  EDDYSTONE. 
Juv. 


ROBERT  CAVALIER 


MARCELLE 


THE  LOVERS  OF  LOR- 
RAINE 


*MONTLIVET 


LE  CHIEN  D'OR  (in 
"  'Twas  in  Trafal- 
gar's Bay,"  &c.) 


Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley) 


W.  D.  Orcutt 

(Heinemann.  Eng. ;  and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 

Hampden  Burnham 
(Briggs,  Toronto) 

S.  Walkey 
(Cassell) 


Alice  Prescott  Smith 
(Constable,  Eng. ;    and 
Houghton,       Mifflin, 
U.S.A.) 

Walter  Besant  and  James 

Rice 

(Chatto,    Eng. ;     and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Rye  (Sussex)  about  1690. 


Rye  in  1699. 


Althorpe,  Newmarket.  Lon- 
don, &c.,  about  1699. 
Lord  Clancarty,  the  Irish 
Jacobite,  and  his  girl  wife 
(nee  Lady  Elizabeth  Spen- 
cer). Lord  Sunderland, 
&c.,  and  a  glimpse  of 
William  III. 

Plymouth,  1696-1703 :  the 
first  Eddystone  Light- 
house ;  then  (1709)  the 
second  Lighthouse. 

The  career  of  La  Salle,  and 
his  explorations  in  North 
America. 

Quebec  in  the  Governor  de 
Frontenac  period. 

Canada  in  the  time  of  Louis 
XIV.  and  William  III.  : 
Frontenac  and  Quebec. 

Early  French  settlements  in 
Canada,  1695  :  the  Hurons, 
Iroquois,  &c.  Time  of 
Governor  de  Frontenac. 

A  brief  story  of  Quebec  in 
1697,  and  (last  *ew  pages) 
in  1727. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


335 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


A   MAID    OF   SALEM    Mrs.  Lucy  Foster  Madison  Witchcraft  mania  in  Salem 
TOWN.     Juv.  (Penn  Publishing  Co.)  (Massachusetts). 


SUBJECT. 


DULCIBEL 

THE  GALLEON  TREA- 
SURE.    Juv. 

IN  LEISLER'S  TIMES. 
Juv. 


THE  YOUNG  HUGUE- 
NOTS.   Juv. 


DONE  AND  DARED  IN 
OLD  FRANCE.  Juv. 


THE  CONSCIENCE  OF 
A  KING 


*ONCE  BITTEN  TWICE 
SHY.     Juv. 


CHARLES  OF  SWEDEN 
(in  "  Historic 
Boys.")  Juv. 


H.  Peterson 

(John  C.  Winston,  Phil.) 

Percy  K.  Fitzhugh 
(Crowell,  U.S.A.) 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Lothrop,   Lee   &   She- 
pard) 


Edith  S.  Floyer 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Deborah  Alcock 
(Partridge) 


A.  C.  Gunter 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng. ;  and 
Home  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.A.) 

F.  Whishaw 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


Ditto. 


Salem  in  the  days  of  Cotton 
Mather  and  Sir  William 
Phipps.  Pirates,  &c. 

A  story  of  Knickerbocker 
New  York :  time  of  Jacob 
Leisler,  the  first  popular 
governor. 

France,  1686,  just  after  the 
Revocation  of  the  Edict  of 
Nantes  ;  and  England  in 
1692. 

Southern  France  about  1690- 
98  ;  the  Protestants  after 
the  Revocation  of  the 
Edict. 

French  Court  mystery,  1697 
(Louis  XIV.). 


N.  Russia,  and  Moscow,  in 
the  1692-96  period :  Peter 
the  Great  introduced  as  a 
young  man  of  twenty. 

Stockholm,   1699  (Charles 
XII.  of  Sweden). 


336 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


A    MAID    OF    NOR- 
MANDY 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


Dora  M.  Jones 
(Blackwood) 


'TwiXT  SWORD  AND    A.  C.  Gunter 

GLOVE  (Ward,  Lock  &  Co.) 

I 

*TOLLA  THE  COURTE-  i  E.  Rodocanachie  (trans.) 
SAN  (Heinemann) 


*THE       SWORD 
GIDEON 


OF 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(Cassell) 


Versailles,  &c.,  and  London, 
about  the  year  1 700  :  last 
years  of  the  Seventeenth 
Century,  and  first  years  of 
the  Eighteenth.  Louis 
XIV.,  Madame  de  Mainte- 
non,  Fenelon,  &c.  Time 
of  James  II.  at  St.  Ger- 
mains. 

France  (Pyrenees  district)  in 
1700. 

Social  life  in  the  Rome  of 
1700. 

[ 

Beginning  of  the  War  of  the 
Spanish  Succession,  1702  : 
the  Netherlands  (Liege). 


ISABEAU'S    HERO. 
Juv. 


Louis  XIV.  (in  "  His- 
torical Vignettes  ") 

*ROSE  OF  BLENHEIM 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
HARRY  ROCHESTER. 
Juv. 

*MARIE  PETIT 


'HUMPHREY       BOLD.    Herbert  Strang  Flanders  and  West  Indies — 

Juv.  (H.  Frowde,  and  Hod-  i      tale  of  Land  and  Sea.     Ad- 


der, Eng. ;  and  Bobbs- 
Merrill,  U.S.A.) 


Esme  Stuart 
(Christian 


miral  Benbow's  pursuit  of 
Du  Casse's  fleet,  1702. 


Society,    Eng.  ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

"  Morice  Gerard  " 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


Herbert  Strang 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


Leo  Claretie 

(Librairie  Moliere,  Paris) 


Languedoc,    1702-5 :      Jean 
Knowledge  '      Cavalier,  and  the  Revolt  in 


Cevennes  district  (Marshal 
Villars). 

Louis  XIV.,  August  2ist, 
1704. 

Paris  (Louis  XIV.),  and 
Marlborough's  campaign  of 
1704  :  the  Battle  of  Blen- 
heim. 

Time  of  Marlborough  and 
Prince  Eugene.  London 
and  the  Low  Countries : 
the  Battle  of  Blenheim. 

Adventures  in  France,  Con- 
stantinople, &c.,  1705. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


337 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*THE   LAST   OF    HER 
RACE 


THRICE  CAPTIVE 


*THE  LAIRD'S  LEGACY. 
Juv. 


a  WITH  MARLBOROUGH 
TO  MALPLAQUET. 
Juv. 


THE  MISTRESS  OF  THE 
ROBES 


CAPTAIN    DALLING- 
TON 


MADAME,  WILL  You 
WALK  ? 


CAPTAIN  MACARTNEY 
(in  "  Historical 
Vignettes  ") 

AURIEL  SELWODE 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(J.  Milne) 


Major  Arthur  Griffiths 
(F.  V.  White) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


H.  Strang  and  R.  Stead 
(H.  Frowde  ;  and  Hodder] 


S.  H.  Burchell 

(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Katharine  S.  Macquoid 
(Arrowsmith) 


Beth  Ellis 
(Blackwood) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Emily  Bowles 
(Sands  &  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


War  of  the  Spanish  Succes- 
sion, 1705-06 :  Spain  at 
the  time  of  Peterborough's 
victories  over  the  French. 

Peterborough  in  Spain  :  the 
actions  at  Barcelona.Mont- 
juich,  and  Almansa. 

Scottish  exiles  in  Paris  and 
Cambrai,&c.,  1707  to  1709 
(Archbishop  Fenelon) ;  also 
Flanders  in  the  time  of 
Marlborough's  Wars. 

England  and  Abroad,  1701- 
14 :  taking  of  Gibraltar, 
and  battles  of  Blenheim 
and  Malplaquet,  &c.  Period 
of  Queen  Anne. 

The  Duchess  of  Marlborough, 
and  Mrs.  Masham  :  Queen 
Anne's  Court. 

English  Country  life  (High- 
wayman) in  the  time  of 
Anne  and  Lady  Marl- 
borough. 

Short  stories  of  London 
fashionable  life  in  1712  : 
the  Pretender,  Boling- 
broke,  &c. 

Highwaymen  on  Cobham 
Heath  in  1712. 


France  (St.  Germains)  and 
England :  Jacobites  v. 
Hanoverians  (Queen  Anne, 
Wharton,  &c.). 


a  One  of  Herbert  Strang's  Historical  Series. 


338  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


aA  LASS  OF  DORCHES-    Annie  M.  Barnes 

TER.     Juv.  I     (Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard) 

I 

IN     THE     WESTERN    Mary  H.  Debenham 
WOODS     (in     "  A        (National  Society,  Eng.; 
Fair  Haven,"  &c.).  j        and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 
Juv. 


THE  BOY  CAPTIVE  OF 
OLD  DEERFIELD. 
Juv. 

THE    PRISONER    OF 
MADEMOISELLE 


Mary  P.  Wells  Smith 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


Chas.  G.  D.  Roberts 
(Constable,  Eng.; 
Page,  U.S.A.) 


and 


*PRISONERS  OF  FOR-  j  Ruel  Perley  Smith 
TUNE  (L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 


•PETER   AND   ALEXIS  :  D.  Merejkowski  (trans,) 
(PETER  THE  GREAT)       (Constable,  Eng.;    and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


PARSON  CROFT 


Norman  Innes 
(Eveleigh  Nash) 


*!N  THE  FIFTEEN.  Juv.  H.  C.  Adams 

(H.  Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


SYLVIA'S 
Juv. 


ROMANCE. 


Marion  Andrews 
(Wells  Gardner) 


SUBJECT. 


Story  of  a  girl  in  the  Province 
of  Carolina,  1702. 

English  Churchpeople  in  the 
Colony  of  Virginia,  1703. 


Massachusetts  in  1 704 : 
French  attack.  Adven- 
tures among  the  Indians. 

Acadia  at  the  beginning  of 
the  Eighteenth  Century. 


Massachusetts  Bay  Colony  at 
the  beginning  of  the  Eigh- 
teenth Century :  Cotton 
Mather  period. 

Peter  the  Great,  and  his  son, 
Alexis  Petrovitch. 


France  and  England  (Devon)  , 


Begins  1689  (Killiecrankie 
and  Claverhouse)  ;  then 
1701  onwards  to  the  Re- 
bellion of  '15.  Lord  Der- 
wentwater,  ending  with 
his  death  on  the  scaffold. 

A  girl's  experiences  in  the 
Jacobite  period  (Anne  — 
George  I.),  ending  just 
after  the  '15. 


a  Miss  Barnes  in  another  tale  of  this  period,  "  The  Laurel  Token  "  (Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard), 
has  dealt  with  the  Yemassee  uprising,  1714.  Perhaps  I  ought  to  add  that  the  heroine  of  "  A  Lass 
of  Dorchester,"  is  the  maiden  whose  imaginary  experiences  in  the  Indian  Land  (S.  Carolina)  are 
recorded  in  an  earlier  book,  "  Little  Betty  Blew."  The  last-named  romance  depicts  her  at  a  somewhat 
yonnger  stage. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


339 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


A      JACOBITE      AD-    R.  H.  Forster 
MIRAL  (J.  Long) 

AN  ESCAPE  FROM  THE  |  Emma  Marshall 
TOWER.    Juv.  (Seeley)     . 


THE  SILVER  GLEN 


STRAINED      ALLEGI- 
ANCE 

*THB  BURNING  CRES- 
SET 

MISTRESS    BEATRICE 
COPE.    Juv. 

THE    SILVER    SHOE- 
BUCKLE 

THE  WILD  GEESE 


THE  BOY  BONDSMAN. 
Juv. 


THE    FORTUNES    OF 
FARTHINGS 


THE  ROSE  BROCADE 


Bessie  Dill 

(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


R.  H.  Forster 
(J-  Long) 

Howard  Pease 
(Constable) 

M.  E.  Le  Clerc 
(Collins) 

R.  Menzies-Fergusson 
(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 

Stanley  Weyman 

(Hodder,     Eng.  ;      and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 


Kent  Carr 
(Partridge) 


A.  J.  Dawson 
(Harper) 


Mrs.   Philip  C.   De  Cres 

pigny 
(E.  Nash) 


SUBJECT. 


Northumberland  (Tynedale 
and  the  Coast,  &c.),  in 
1714. 

The  Rebellion  of  '15  :  Scot- 
land and  London,  1714-17 
(the  Countess  of  Niths- 
dale). 

A  glen  in  the  Ochils  (Scot- 
land) :  the  '15  and  the 
Pretender.  The  tale  is 
based  on  the  letters  of 
Lady  Erskine  of  Alva. 


Northumberland    in 
Whig  v.  Jacobite. 


1715 


The  Earl  of  Derwentwater, 
and  the  Rising  of  '15. 

Northumberland,  1715 :  the 
concealment  of  a  Jacobite. 

Scotland  (the  Ochils)  and  the 
Rebellion  of  '15. 

West  of  Ireland  in  the  early 
period  of  George  I. : 
Jacobites  a  year  or  two 
after  the  '15. 

English  Jacobite  lad  trans- 
ported to  Virginia  after  the 
'15 :  plantation  experi- 
ences, &c. 

Begins  Dorsetshire  in  1699  : 
then  Dorsetshire  and  Mo- 
rocco, 1715-20.  A  young 
man  carried  off  as  a  slave, 
among  the  Moors. 

The  Court  at  Leicester  House 
in  1718. 


340  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


CAPTAIN  LOVE 


Theodore  Roberts 
(L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 


MURRAY      OF      THE    Lawrence  Clarke 
SCOTS  GREYS  (Jarrold) 


THE  ROSE-SPINNER 


KING  COLLEY  (in 
"  Historical  Vig- 
nettes ") 

THE  LION'S  SKIN 


Mary  Deane 
(J.  Murray) 


Bernard  Capes 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Rafael  Sabatim 
(Stanley  Paul) 


GEORGE  I.  (in  "  His-    Bernard  Capes 


torical  Vignettes  ") 


•VERONICA  PLAYFAIR. 
Juv. 


(Fisher  Unwin) 


Maud  Wilder  Goodwin 
(Warne,  Eng. ;    and 
Little,  Brown,  U.S.A.)! 


THE  LAND  OF  BOND-  ,  J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
AGE  (F.  V.  White) 


Gamblers,  Highwaymen,  &c., 
in  the  time  of  George  I. 

Scotland,  Flanders,  London, 
&c.,  in  the  Anne — George 
I.  period.  A  somewhat 
melodramatic  novel. 

Gloucestershire  and  the  Cots- 
wolds,  1719 ;  and  London, 
1720  (the  South  Sea 
Scheme). 

Colley  Gibber  and  Sir  Chris- 
topher Wren  in  1721. 


Begins  Paris,  but  mainly 
London  in  1721 :  just 
after  the  South  Sea  Bubble 
disaster.  History,  however, 
forms  a  mere  background 
to  a  domestic  drama.  The 
Duke  of  Wharton  appears. 

Death  of  George  I.  on  the 
road  to  Herrenhausen, 
1727. 

London  district  and  Bath, 
about  the  third  decade  of 
the  Eighteenth  Century : 
Beau  Nash,  Bolingbroke, 
Swift,  Lady  Mary  Monta- 
gue, &c.  The  poet  Pope 
at  Twickenham. 

!  Ireland  and  England  in  1 727  ; 
then  the  Colony  of  Vir- 
ginia (James  River),  1728. 
Adventures  with  the  In- 
dians, &c.  Last  pages 
jump  many  years  to  1748. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


341 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

aTHE      CONVERT     OF 
MASSACHUSETTS. 
Juv. 

UN  GRAND  CHAGRIN, 
&c.  (in  "  Contes 
Historiques  ") 

SERAPHICA 


AT  ODDS  WITH  THE 
REGENT 


*LE    CHEVALIER    DE 
PUYJALOU 

THE     ROMANCE     OF 
MDLE.  AISSK 


*A      LITTLE 
DAUGHTER. 


STEP- 
Juv. 


*THE       HOUSE       ON 
CHERRY  STREET 


*BONNIE  PRINCE 
CHARLIE.     Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


R.  King 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


Madame  Eugenie  Foa 
(Williams    &    Norgate, 
1 886  ;     and    various 
French  publishers) 

Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(Hurst,  Eng. ;  and  Har- 
per. U.S.A.) 


Burton  E.  Stevenson 
(Lippincott) 


H.  de  Charlieu 
(Hachette,  Paris) 

Mrs.  Campbell  Praed 
(J-  Long) 


Margaret  Roberts 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Amelia  E.  Barr 

(Werner  Laurie,  Eng.  ; 
and  Dodd,  Mead, 
U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 
(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


New  England  in  1721. 


Chateau  de  Vincennes,  1715: 
Louis  XV.  as  a  child  of 
five. 


Artois  and  Paris,  &c.,  in  the 
time  of  the  Regency  (Duke 
of  Orleans) :  "  Little  King 
Louis,"  &c. 

A  story  of  adventure  in  Paris 
during  the  Regency.  In- 
troduces the  Regent  him- 
self, &c. 

The  Mississippi  Bubble  and 
the  Regent  (France),  1720. 

The  "  Fair  Circassian,"  from 
the  time  when  she  was 
purchased  in  the  Slave 
Market  at  Constantinople, 
1698,  to  her  death  in  1733. 
Chiefly  France,  1718-22 
(the  Regent,  &c.). 

Life  in  Southern  France 
(Provence)  in  the  days  of 
the  Regent.  A  girl  carried 
off  by  gypsies. 

New  York  in  the  time  of 
George  II.,  1732. 


England,       Scotland,       and 
Abroad,    1728-47 :    Dettin- 
gen,     Fontenoy,     Preston- 
pans,  and  Culloden. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  America  and  Our  Colonies  "  (Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History). 


342  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.          I    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


MISTRESS  CYNTHIA 


*PECKOVER'S 
Juv. 


MILL. 


THE  LADY  OF  HIRTA 


IONE  CHALONER 


THE  SWORD  OF  DUN- 
DEE 


*THE     TWO-HANDED 
SWORD 


THAT  MASTER  OF 
OURS.    Juv. 

FOR       JAMES       OR 
GEORGE.    Juv. 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
DENIS.    Juv. 


*FORTUNA  CHANCE 


"  May  Wynne  " 
(Greening) 

Frederick  C.  Badrick 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

W.  C.  Mackenzie 

(Alex.  Gardner.  Paisley) 


Earl  of  Iddesleigh 
(J.  Murray) 


Theodore  Peck 

(Gay  &  Hancock,  Eng.  ; 
and  Duffield,  U.S.A.) 

Frank  Onnerod 

(J.    &    P.    Macdonald, 
Rochdale) 


Anonymous 
(Nisbet  &  Co.) 

H.  C.  Adams 
(Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


Mary  Bramston 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


"  James  Prior 
(Constable) 


SUBJECT. 

Jacobite  plots  (George  II.)  in 
1739:  Sir  Robert  Walpole. 

Rye  and  Winchelsea  district 
in  Jacobite  times :  the 
Great  Frost  of  1739. 

Scotland,  1739-45.  A  story 
based  on  the  imprisonment 
of  Lady  Grange  in  the 
Hebrides,  1732-9. 

Jacobite  times  :  the  Duke  of 
Newcastle,  Young  Pre- 
tender, &c. 

Prince  Charles  Edward,  Flora 
Macdonald,  &c.,  1741-49. 


Rochdale  (Lancashire)  and 
district,  1744-46.  The 
Jacobites  and  Wesley's 
followers. 

School  life  in  1745  (Redruth, 
Cornwall). 

School  hie  in  the  Carlisle  dis- 
trict at  the  time  of  the  '45 
Rebellion. 

Derbyshire,  1745 :  the  Re- 
bellion, and  Charles  Ed- 
wards' retreat  from  Derby, 
&c. 

;  Sherwood  Forest  district  of 
Notts,  N.  Derbyshire  and 
S.  Yorks,  chiefly  in  the  '45 
Rebellion  period.  History 
merely  as  background,  but 
Wm.  Lord  Byron  (the 
poet's  grand-uncle)  and 
Wm.  Chaworth  appear. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


343 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


FOR   LOVE 
HONOUR 


FOR   LOVE 
LOYALTY 


FOR   THE   WHITE 
COCKADE 


COLONEL  KATE 


*THE  HEARTH 
HUTTON 


SUBJECT. 


William  Macleod  Raine 
(Isbister) 


The  '45  Rebellion  :  escape  of 
the  Prince  from  Culloden, 
&c.  (Flora  Macdonald). 


Paul  Seaton  j  Scotland  in  1745  :    Falkirk, 

(Geo.  A.  Morton,  Edin-  j      Culloden,  &c. 
burgh  ;  and  Simpkin,  j 
London) 


J.  E.  Muddock 
(J-  Long) 


"  K.  L.  Montgomery 
(Methuen) 

W.  J.  Eccott 
(Blackwood) 


EDSAGIL,  1745 
A  LOYAL  MAID 


!  L.  M.  Watt 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 

W.  G.  Tarbet 
(Arrowsmith) 


*  UNDER  THE   WHITE 
COCKADE 


*THE  MOON  OF  BATH 
(THE  FAIR  MOON 
OF  BATH) 

SANDY  CARMICHAEL 


THE     FLIGHT 
GEORGIANA 


Halliwell  Sutcliffe 
(Cassell) 


Beth  Ellis 

(Blackwood,  Eng.  ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

C.  J.  Cutcliffe  Hyne 
(S.    Low,    Eng. ;     and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

R.  Neilson  Stephens 
(Nash,  Eng.  ;  and  Page, 
U.S.A.) 


Simon  Eraser  (Lord  Lovat), 
and  his  part  in  the  '45 
Rebellion. 

Ditto. 


Cumberland  Squire  in  the  '45 
Rebellion  :  the  march  to 
Derby  and  back,  ending 
Falkirk. 

The  Western  Isles  (Scotland) 
and  the  Young  Pretender. 

Galloway,  &c.,  in  the  '45 
Rebellion  period  (Prince 
Charles  Edward). 

A  Jacobite's  adventures  in 
England  and  Scotland  in 
the  year  1745. 

Jacobites  in  Bath,  1745  : 
Beau  Nash  appears. 


Two  men  in  the  South  Seas, 
1745  (after  escape  from 
Culloden). 

North  of  England,  1746,  just 
after  Culloden  (Country 
manners). 


344  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.          '    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


HILLS  OF  HOME 


FOR    CHARLES    THE 
ROVER 


a  ROGER     THE     SCOUT. 

Juv. 


HIGHWAY  DUST.  Juv 
BLACK  MARK 


Norman  Maclean 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


"  May  Wynne  " 

(Greening,   Eng.  ;     and 
Fenno,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Strang  and  Geo.  Law- 
rence 

(H.  Frowde ;  and  Hod- 
der) 

G.  G.  Sellick 

(T.  C.  &  E.  C.  Jack) 

"  A  Whisper  " 
(Blackwood) 


CLEMENTINA'S  HIGH-  i  R.   Neilson  Stephens  and 
WAYMAN  G.  H.  Westley 

(Hurst,  Eng. ;  and  Page, 
U.S.A.) 


BEAU  BROCADE 


A  WHITE  WITCH 


THE  MAN  AT  ODDS 


THE  HOUSE  WITH 
THEDRAGONGATES. 
Juv. 


Baroness  Orczy  " 
(Greening,   Eng. ;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

Theo  Douglas  " 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Ernest  Rhys 

(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Edith  E.  Cowper 
(Christian      Knowledge 
Society,    Eng. ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Scotland,  1746.  Begins  im- 
mediately after  Culloden  : 
the  Pretender's  flight. 

Jacobites  in  Ireland  after  the 
'45  Rebellion :  a  plan  to 
avenge  Culloden. 

Time  of  George  II.,  1744-59. 
England  (the  '45)  and  N. 
America  (French  v.  Eng- 
lish). 

A  treasure  hunt  in  the  time 
of  George  II. 

Man  of  Fashion  turns  high- 
wayman (George  II. 
period.) 

Love  and  adventure  in  1742. 


A  Derbyshire  Highwayman 
in  George  II.  period  (Jaco- 
bites). 

Oxford  and  Northumberland, 
mid-Eighteenth  Century 
(witchcraft  and  alchemy) . 

Welsh  Coast,  1745.  Piratical 
smugglers  in  and  about  the 
Bristol  Channel. 


Chiswick  in  1745. 


a  One  of  Herbert  Strong's  Historical  Series. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


345 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


HARTLAND  FOREST 


SIR     RICHARD     Es- 
COMBE 


STRANGE  ADVEN- 
TURES IN  THE 
COUNTY  OF  DOR- 
SET, A.D.  1747 

THE    MOONRAKERS. 
Juv. 


THE  WAYFARERS 


THE    IDOL    OF    THE 
KING 

A  FOUNTAIN  SEALED 


'MISTRESS  PHIL.  Juv. 


fllNCOMPARABLE    BEL- 
LAIRS 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Mrs.  Anna  Eliza  Bray 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


Max  Pemberton 

(Cassell,    Eng.  ;     and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 


Emily  J.  Climenson 
(Poynder,  Reading) 


SUBJECT. 


A  domestic  tragedy,  begin- 
ging  Exeter  district,  1721, 
but  mainly  concerned  with 
events  at  Hartland,  N. 
Devon,  at  the  time  of  the 
'45  Rebellion. 

Warwickshire  in  1746 :  the 
doings  of  the  "  Hell  Fire 
Club "  at  Medmenham 
Abbey. 

Smugglers  in  the  Isle  of 
Purbeck  (George  1 1 .  period ) . 


Edith  E.  Cowper  j  Smugglers  in  the  New  Forest, 

(Christian     Knowledge  j      1747. 
Society,    Eng.  ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


J.  C.  Snaith 

(Ward,  Lock  &  Co.) 

Henry  Curties 
(Hutchinson) 

Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 

(National  Society, Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 
(Constable,  Eng.  ;   and 
Stokes,  U.S.A.) 


London  about  1750  :  Henry 
Fielding  the  novelist,  &c. 

Secret  marriage  of  George 
III.  as  Prince  of  Wales. 

London  (last  months  of 
George  II.)  :  how  George, 
Prince  of  Wales,  fell  in  love 
with  a  Dartford  Quaker 
maiden. 

Waltham  Cross,  1759-60,  and 
highway  adventure  in  Lon- 
don coach,  &c. 

Bath  in  mid-Eighteenth  Cen- 
tury. 


a  A  sequel  to  "  The  Bath  Comedy  "  (see  p.  85). 


346 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.          !    AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  MESSENGER(THE  i  F.  Frankfort  Moore 


LOVE    THAT    PRE- 
VAILED) 


THE  MORNING  OF  TO- 
DAY 


BERNICIA 


THE  INFIDEL 


PEGGY    GAINS- 
BOROUGH 


JEMMY  ABERCRAW 


(Hodder,  Eng. ;  and 
Cupples  &  Leon, 
U.S.A.) 

Florence  Bone 
(Eaton  &  Mains) 


Amelia  E.  Barr 

(Melrose,     Eng.  ;      and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

M.  E.  Braddon 
(Simpkin  &  Co.) 


Emily  Baker 
(F.  Griffiths) 


SUBJECT. 


Bernard  Capes 
(Methuen) 


MY  LADY  OF  AROS 


*!N  THE  SHADOW  OF 
THE  LORD 


,  "  John  Brandane  " 

(Sir   I.    Pitman,    Eng. ; 
and  Duffield,  U.S.A.) 


John  Wesley  as  lover. 


John  Wesley's  period  :  Jaco- 
bites and  Wesleyans  in 
Yorkshire. 

George  Whitefield  and  the 
Methodists. 


Chiefly  London  and  district 
in  the  last  years  of  George 
II. 's  reign  :  the  Methodist 
Revival  (Wesley  and 
Whitefield). 

'  The  great  painter,  Gains- 
borough, and  his  family. 
Bath,  Sudbury,  London, 
Richmond,  &c.f  in  mid- 
Eighteenth  Century  (the 
Sheridans,  Garrick,  &c.). 

University  man  turned  high- 
wayman, and  Jacobites, 
&c.,  1758-60.  Surrey  and 
London  (William  Pitt). 

' 
Attempted   Jacobite  revival 

in  the  Western  Islands  of 
Scotland,  about  1760. 


Mrs.  Hugh  Fraser  i  A   story     of  George   Wash- 

(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     and        ington's  parents,  covering 

Holt,  U.S.A.)  his  own  youth   and   early 

manhood :     England    and 

America  about  the  1730-56 

period. 


THE       HEART 
WASHINGTON 


OF    Dorothea  H.  Knox 

(D.  C.  Neale,  U.S.A.) 


:  The  first  love  affair  of  George 
Washington,  from  1747. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURA— continued. 


347 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*  RETURN 


BOYS  OF  THE  BORDER. 
Juv. 


PARSON  GAY'S  THREE 
SERMONS 

WITH  ROGERS'  RAN- 
GERS 


FRENCH    AND    ENG- 
LISH.    Juv. 


CAMERON  OF  LOCHIEL 


THE    FORT    IN    THE 
FOREST.    Juv. 

a\   SOLDIER   OF  THE 
WILDERNESS.  Juv. 

ROGER  THE  RANGER. 
Juv. 


*How    CANADA    WAS 
WON.    Juv. 


Grace    MacGowan   Cooke 
and  Alice  MacGowan 
(Hodder,     Eng. ;      and 
Page,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  P.  Wells  Smith 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


Robert  Thaxter  Edes,  M.D. 
(Cochrane,  U.S.A.) 

G.  Waldo  Browne 
(L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Philippe  Aubert  de  Gaspe 
(translated  by  C.D.G. 
Roberts) 
(L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 

Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(W.  A.  Wilde  Co.) 

Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(W.  A.  Wilde  Co.) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Partridge) 


Capt.  F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Caldwell,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Georgia,  and  the  Sea  Islands. 
1739:  General  Oglethorpe. 


N.W.  Massachusetts  in  the 
French  and  Indian  War 
period,  1746-55. 

Massachusetts  in  the  French 
and  Indian  War  period. 

New  England  and  New  York, 
1754  :  French  and  Indian 
War  period. 

Canada  in  the  time  of  Fort 
William  Henry,  Louis- 
bourg,  and  Quebec. 

The  French  Canadians  at  the 
time  of  theEnglish  struggle. 
Archibald  Cameron,  and 
Quebec,  1757,  &c. 

The  fall  of  Fort  William 
Henry,  1755. 

The  fall  of  Fort  Frontenac, 
1758. 

Canada  in  the  time  of  Mont- 
calm  and  Wolfe:  Ticon- 
deroga,  and  Quebec.  The 
Indians,  &c. 

Canada,  1756-59 :  the  de- 
fence of  Fort  William 
Henry,  the  attack  on 
Louisbourg,  and  the  taking 
of  Quebec  (Wolfe). 


a  Another  story  of  the  Conquest  of  Canada  period,  by  the  same  author,  is  "  The  Young  Rangers  " 
(Wilde).     Mr.  Tomlinson's  first  book  in  this  series  of  Colonial  tales  is,  "  With  Flintlock  and  File." 


348 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*LITTLE  FRANCE  (THE 
QUIBERON  TOUCH) 


*ROB    THE    RANGER. 
Juv. 


THE  HEAD  OF  IRON 


*FORT  AMITY 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Cyrus  T.  Brady 

(Greening,  Eng.  ;  and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Strang 

(H.  Frowde,  and  Hodder, 
Eng. ;  and  Bobbs- 
Merrill,  U.S.A.) 

B.  S.  Patterson 

(Walker,  Pittsburg) 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 
(J.  Murray) 


*WiTH      WOLFE      IN    G.  A.  Henty 

CANADA.     Juv.  (Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 

Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


THE  LITTLE  LADY 
AT  THE  FALL  OF 
QUEBEC.  Juv. 


Annie  M.  Barnes 

(Penn  Publishing  Co.) 


a*LADY  GOOD  -  FOR-  |  A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 

NOTHING  (Nelson,     Eng. ;      and 

Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


*THE  ROYAL  AMERI- 
CANS 


6ON    THE    TRAIL    OF 
PONTIAC.     Juv. 


Mary  Hallock  Foote 
(Constable,  Eng.  ;    and 
Houghton,       Mifflin, 
U.S.A.) 

Edward  Stratemeyer 
(Lothrop.Lee  &Shepard) 


SUBJECT. 


France  and  Canada,  1754-59; 
Admiral  Hawke  at  Qui- 
beron,  and  Wolfe  at 
Quebec. 

Canada  and  the  Indians  in 
1757  :  time  of  Montcalm 
and  Wolfe. 


Pennsylvania  in  the  days  of 
General  Braddock,  and 
General  John  Forbes 
("  The  Head  of  Iron  "). 
Fort  Duquesne,  1758. 

Canada,  1758  :  the  storming 
of  Ticonderoga,  &c.  Brit- 
ish, French,  and  Indians. 

French  v.  English  period, 
coveringBraddock's  defeat, 
Fort  William  Henry,  Ti- 
conderoga, and  Quebec. 

Quebec,  1759 :  a  girl  gives 
information  which  enables 
Wolfe  to  take  the  City. 

Boston  (Mass.)  in  the  Second 
Quarter  of  the  Eighteenth 
Century  ;  then  Lisbon  (the 
Earthquake,  1755)  ;  lastly 
(Epilogue)  Bath,  England, 
in  1775. 

N.  American  colonies  during 
the  period,  1756-77.  The 
Schuyler  family  and  the 
Revolution  (Quakers). 

Colonial  America  (the  Ohio 
pioneers)  in  the  last  French 
and  Indian  War. 


a  This  novel  is  founded,  in  part,  on  the  true  story  of  Sir  Harry  Frankland  and  Agnes  Surriage. 
6  Like  the  author's  "  With  Washington  in  the  West  "  (vide  p.  87),  this  tale  is  one  of  the  volumes 
in  his  Colonial  Series  (Lothrop,  Lee  &  Sbepard). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


349 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


A  SWORD  OF  THE  OLD 
FRONTIER 


PONTIAC    CHIEF    OF 
THE  OTTAWAS.  Juv. 


*THE  AMULET 


THE      STRAWBERRY 
HANDKERCHIEF 

THE  IMPOSTOR 


*PRISONERS  OFCHANCE 


*ONE  OF  CLIVE'S 
HEROES  (!N  CLIVE'S 
COMMAND).  Juv. 

THE  PRINCE'S  VALET 


*SiR  JOHN  CONSTAN- 
TINE 


THE  RED  CRAVAT 


THE  LITTLE  MARQUIS 
OF  BRANDENBURG 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


Randall  Parrish 

(Putnam,    Eng.  ;      and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 

Edward  S.  Ellis 

(Cassell,     Eng.  ;      and 
Winston,  U.S.A.) 

"Charles  EgbertCraddock" 
(Macmillan) 


Amelia  E.  Barr 

(Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.) 

John  Reed  Scott 
(Lippincott) 


Randall  Parrish 

(Putnam,    Eng. ;     and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 


Fort  Chartres  and  Detroit  at 
the  time  of  Pontiac's  con- 
spiracy, 1763. 

The  Siege  of  Detroit  by  the 
Ottawa  Indians  in  1763. 


The  British  at  Fort  Prince 
George  in  1763,  and  the 
Cherokee  Indians. 

New  York  in  the  Stamp  Act 
period,  1765. 

Maryland  (Annapolis)  in  the 
time  of  Governor  Horatio 
Sharpe,  1766. 

Louisiana  and  Arkansas  in 
1769. 


Herbert  Strang  I  India,  1754-57  :    the  Battle 

(Hodder,     Eng. ;      and        of  Plassey,  the  Black  Hole, 
Bobbs-Merrill,U.S.A.)!      &c. 


J.  Barnett 

(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 
(Smith,    Elder,    Eng.  ; 
and  Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Alfred  T.  Sheppard 
(Macmillan) 


W.  R.  H.  Trowbridge 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


The  Young  Pretender's  ad- 
ventures in  France,  Ger- 
many, and  England,  after 
the  '45  Rebellion. 

Adventures  in  Corsica,  1756. 


Prussia  and  Saxony,  1730  : 
Frederick  William  I.  and 
his  "  Giants." 

The  youth  of  Frederick  the 
Great. 


350  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*A  GENTLE  KNIGHT 
OF  OLD  BRANDEN- 
BURG 


THE  LONELY  GUARD 


*A  GENDARME  OF  THE 
KING 


THE  SURGE  OF  WAR 


THE  LIFE  PERILOUS 


JEAN-BAPTISTE  GRE- 
UZE,  PEINTRE  (in 
"  Contes  Histori- 
ques").  Juv. 

ANDRK -ERNES  T- 
MODESTE  GRETRY, 
MUSICIEN  (in  "Con- 
tes Historiques  ") . 
Juv. 

*A  FAIR  MARTYR 


NUMBER  ONE  HUN- 
DRED AND  ONE 


Charles  Major 
(Macmillan) 


Norman  Innes 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng. ;  and 
Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 


P.  L.  Stevenson 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Norman  Innes 
(E.  Nash) 


Carlton  Dawe 
(Hutchinson) 

Mdme.  Eugenie  Foa 
(Williams    &    Norgate, 
1886 ;     and    various 
French  publishers) 

Mdme.  Eugenie  Foa 
(Williams    &    Norgate, 
1886 ;     and    various 
French  publishers) 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(Everett) 


Wymond  Carey 

(Blackwood,  Eng.  ;  and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Court  of  Frederick  William  1. 
of  Prussia,  about  1731  : 
Wilhclmina,  sister  of  Fred- 
erick the  Great,  and  the 
latter  as  a  youth. 

Maria  Theresa,  1743  :  War 
of  the  Austrian  Succession 
period.  A  young  Scots- 
man in  Bavaria. 

Experiences  of  a  Scotsman 
in  the  Seven  Years'  War 
(good  picture  of  Frederick 
the  Great). 

Silesia  in  the  period,  1756-61: 
Frederick  the  Great  and 
the  Seven  Years'  War. 

Spanish  Inquisition,  1750. 


Greuze,  the  artist,  at  Tour- 
nus,  in  1738. 


Liege,    1752  :     Gretry,    the 
composer. 


Begins  Marseilles  (Plague)  in 
1 720  ;  then — twenty  years 
later — social  life  under 
Louis  XV.  An  English- 
man in  Paris. 

A  spy  at  Louis  XV. 's  Court 
about  the  time  of  the  War 
of  the  Austrian  Succession . 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


PETTICOAT  GOVERN- 
MENT (PETTICOAT 
RULE) 


THE      PALACE 
DANGER 


THE  HAND  OF  LKO- 
NORE 


UNDER  THE  POMPA- 
DOUR 


*LE  JARDINIER  DE  LA 
POMPADOUR 


*A  FLOOD  TIDE 


INNOCENT    MASQUE- 
RADERS 


BRISTOL   DIAMONDS. 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


"  Baroness  Orczy  " 
(Hutchinson,     Eng.  ; 
and  Doran,  U.S.A.) 


Mabel  Wagnalls 

(J.  Long,  Eng.  ;  and 
Funk  &  Wagnalls, 
U.S.A.) 

H.  Noel  Williams 
(Harper) 


Edward  W.  Jennings 
(Unwin,     Eng.  ;       and 
Brentano's,     U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


French  Court  in  1745  (Jaco- 
bites). Time  of  Louis  XV., 
Mdme.  de  Pompadour,  and 
the  Young  Pretender. 

The  Marquise  de  Pompa- 
dour :  Versailles,  &c. 


France  in  the  time  of  the 
Pompadour :  ends  with 
Rosbach,  1757. 

Dorset  coast  and  London  ; 
then  France  and  Louis 
XV. 's  Court  in  1756. 


Eugene  Demolder  Louis  XV.  and  the  Pompa- 

(Societe  du  Mercure  de  (      dour,  &c.     The  tale  passes 


France,  Paris) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(Edward  Arnold) 


"  Sarah  Tytler 
(J-  Long) 


Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley) 


LIFE'S  ANCHOR.  Juv.    Harriet  E.  Colville 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


at  the  end,  from  1764  to 
1789  and  1792. 

London,  &c.  (semi-French 
atmosphere),  c.  1765-70; 
also  glimpses  of  Paris  and 
Provence. 

Kent  (Blackheath,  &c.)  and 
London  district  at  the 
beginning  of  George  III.'s 
reign  :  Newgate  and  Old 
Bailey  scenes.  Time  of 
Dr.  Johnson. 

The  Bristol  Hot  Wells  in 
1773.  Hannah  More  and 
Edmund  Burke  appear  : 
also  Chandler,  Prince  Bis- 
hop of  Durham. 

London,  Bristol,  Streatham, 
&c.,  1773-86:  Dr.  John- 
son and  his  friends  ;  also 
Hannah  More. 


352 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


KNIGHTS 
ROAD. 


OF 
Juv. 


*Mv  GOD-DAUGHTER. 
Juv. 


STARWOOD 
Juv. 


HALL. 


* CASTLE 
Juv. 


MEADOW. 


1779."  A  STORY 
OF  OLD  SHORE- 
HAM.  Juv. 


HELD  FAST  FOR  ENG- 
LAND.   Juv. 


THE  DEFENCE  OF  THE 
ROCK.    Juv. 

PAMELA'S     HERO. 
Juv. 

GLENITH 


IN     FOUR     REIGNS. 
Juv. 


THE  CUNNING  WO- 
MAN'S GRANDSON. 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


John  Howard,  the  philan- 
thropist :  London  (New- 
gate), Bath,  &c. 

England,  1774-80:  village 
life,  and  London  at  the 
time  of  the  Gordon  Riots. 


Frederick  C.  Badrick  A   lad's   adventures   on   his 

(National  Society,  Eng. ;  ':      way  to  and  in  the  London 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.)  I      of  George  III. 


Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley) 


Frederick  Harrison 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,  Eng.  ;  and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Dorothea  Moore 
(Blackie) 

M.  H.  Abraham- Jewell 
(J.  Ouseley) 


Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley,    Eng. ;     and 
Dutton,  U.S.A.) 


Charlotte  M.  Yonge 
(National  Society ,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker, U.S.  A.) 


Norwich  in  1777-8  ;  and  in 
1788.  John  Crome,  the 
landscape  painter,  and 
Wm.  Crotch,  the  musician 
(early  years  of  both). 

Boys  in  an  old  Manor  House, 
near  Shoreham.  French 
sailors  land  on  the  Sussex 
coast,  &c. 

England  (Putney,  &c.)  1778  ; 
and  Gibraltar  (the  Siege) 
1779-83- 

The  Siege  of  Gibraltar. 


Hampstead  in  the  time  of  the 
Gordon  Riots. 

Life  in  Kingston-on-Thames, 
London,  &c.,  1785-6 :  a 
duel,  and  an  election. 

Windsor,  Sidmouth,  Brigh- 
ton, &c.,  in  the  period, 
1785-1842  (George  III., 
George  IV.,  William  IV., 
and  Victoria). 

Cheddar  in  1789:  Hannah 
More. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


353 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  POET  AND  His 
GUARDIAN  ANGEL 

ON   THE   BANKS   OF 
THE  OUSE 


*NANCY  STAIR 

HIGHLAND  MARY 

A     PROPHET'S     RE- 
WARD 


^HARTLEY       HOUSE, 
CALCUTTA 

THE  SILVER   HAND. 
Juv. 


*THE  GREAT  PROCON- 
SUL 


*As  IT  HAPPENED 


&THE  ITALIAN 


"  Sarah  Tytler  " 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Emma  Marshall 

(Seeley,      Eng. ;       and 
Dutton,  U.S.A.) 

Elinor    Macartney    Lane 
(Heinemann,  Eng. ;  and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 

Clayton  Mackenzie  Legge 
(C.  M.  Clark,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Strain 
(Blackwood) 


Anonymous 

(Thacker,  Calcutta) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Blackie) 


"  Sydney  C.  Grier 
(Blackwood) 


SUBJECT. 


Cowper  at  Olney :  Mrs. 
Unwin. 

Cowper  at  Olney,  and  his 
friendship  with  John  New- 
ton (ends  1795). 

Time  of  Robert  Burns, 
covering  the  period  1768- 


Robert  Burns  and  his  love 
affairs. 

Scotland  (Glasgow  district) 
in  the  period  1778-93  ; 
political  ideals  before  and 
during  the  French  Revolu- 
tion. 

India  in  the  time  of  Warren 
Hastings. 

India  and  the  Mahratta 
Wars :  Warren  Hastings, 
Hyder  Ali,  Tippoo,  &c. 

An  apology  for  Warren 
Hastings  under  the  form 
of  an  imaginary  diary  by  a 
lady  in  his  family.  The 
period,  1777-85  (India)  is 
covered.  Ends,  Bath,  a 
few  months  after  Hastings' 
death,  1818. 


"  Ashton  Hilliers  " 

(Hutchinson,  Eng. ;  and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Ann  Radcliffe 
(Routledge) 


I  India,  England,  and  (in  large 
part)  Gibraltar,  1778-79. 
Quaker  element. 

Naples    and    district    about 
1760:  the  Inquisition. 


a  A  new  edition  of  this  old  work  (originally  published  in  1789)  was  brought  out  by  Thacker 
in  1909. 

A  Considered  Mrs.  Radclifie's  best  novel  by  competent  critics. 

2    A 


354 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


i 

TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


BEYOND  THE  WALL 
AN  EMPRESS  IN  LOVE 

*  SHOES  OF  GOLD 


J.  H.  Yoxall 

(Hutchinson) 

F.  Whishaw 
(Stanley  Paul) 


Hamilton  Drummond 
(Stanley  Paul) 


*THE  REMINISCENCES    M.  Barrington 
OF   SIR   BARRING-  j      (Blackwood) 
TON      BEAUMONT,  i 
BART. 


*THE  STRANGE  STORY 
OF  RAB  RABY 


*THE  EAGLE'S  NEST 


THE  RED  SULTAN 


M.  Jokai  (trans.) 
(Jarrold) 


"  Allan  McAulay  " 
(J.  Lane) 

J.  Maclaren  Cobban 
(Chatto,     Eng. ;      and 
Rand  McNally  &  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


GUILLAUME   DUPUY-  Mdme.  Eugenie  Foa 

TREN  (in  "  Contes  (Williams    &    Norgate, 

Historiques").  1886;     and    various 

Juv.  French  publishers) 


THE  ROAD  TO  PARIS 


R.  N.  Stephens 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ;  and 
Page,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 

Romantic  adventure  in  Nor- 
thern Italy,  1761. 

Russia  :  Catherine  the  Great, 
Peter  III.,  and  Gregory 
Orloff.  The  assassination 
of  Peter. 

Paris  (Louis  XV.  and  Choi- 
seul)  ;  then  St.  Petersburg 
(Catherine  and  Peter  III.), 
1762.  Ends  with  the 
murder  of  the  Czar. 

Imaginary  autobiography, 
1756-1812  (chiefly  between 
1778  and  1798)  :  London, 
Paris  (largely),  Stockholm, 
&c.  Count  Axel  Fersen  is 
specially  prominent ;  there 
are,  also,  pictures  of  Horace 
Walpole,  Marie  Antoinette 
and  her  Court,  the  Revolu- 
tion, &c. 

Hungary  in  the  time  of  the 
Emperor  Joseph  II.,  1780- 
90. 

Napoleon  as  a  youth  in 
Corsica. 

Adventures  among  the  Moors 
in  Western  Barbary,  1789. 


La  Haute  —  Vienne,  1785  : 
boyhood  of  the  great  sur- 
geon, Dupuytren. 


Adventures  in  America  and 
Europe  in  the  American 
Revolution  period. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


355 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  SCARLET  CLOAK 


a* IN    THE    DAYS    OF 
JEFFERSON.    Juv. 


THE    KING'S   MARK. 
Juv. 


WOODHULL.     Juv. 


&THE  MUSKET  BOYS 
OF  OLD  BOSTON. 
Juv. 

THE  MUSKET  BOYS 
UNDER  WASHING- 
TON. Juv. 

THE  YOUNG  CONTI- 
NENTALS AT  LEX- 
INGTON. Juv. 

THE  YOUNG  CONTI- 
NENTALS AT  BUN- 


Juv. 


Audrey  de  Haven 
(Blackwood) 


Hezekiah  Butterworth 
(Appleton) 


Ella  M.  Bangs 

(C.  M.  Clark,  U.S.A.) 


Pliny  B.  Seymour 
(C.  M.  Clark,  U.S.A.) 


C.  E.  Warren 

(Cupples  &  Leon,  U.S.A.) 


John  T.  Mclntyre 
(Penn,  U.S.A.) 


*A  LITTLE  MAID  OF    "  Margaret  Sidney  " 
BOSTON        TOWN.  I      (Lothrop) 
Juv. 


SUBJECT. 


Begins  Glasgow,  1752  ;  then 
Virginia  during  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution. 

A  semi-fictional  biography  of 
Thomas  Jefferson,  depict- 
ing his  early  home  life  in 
Virginia,  &c.  Mainly  in 
the  period  1750-1800,  but 
ends  with  the  Louisiana 
Purchase  (1803)  and  after. 

Portland  (Maine)  at  the 
beginning  of  the  Revolu- 
tion. 

South  Carolina  ;  England  ; 
and  the  American  Revolu- 
tion. 

The  Revolution : 

(1)  In  Boston  (early  stages) ; 

and 

(2)  In  New  York. 


Philadelphia  and  Boston  in 
the  Revolution :  various 
historic  scenes  and  char- 
acters are  introduced. 


Begins  Boston,  England  ; 
then  Boston,  Mass.,  1772- 
75- 


a  1  have  chosen  this  and  one  other  tale  by  the  same  author  ("In  the  Boyhood  of  Lincoln,"  vide 
p.  386)  as  interesting  examples  of  a  useful  series  of  semi-fictional  studies  in  American  history.  Other 
volumes  (Appleton  &  Co.)  deal  with  early  Colonial  and  more  recent  times,  illustrating  the  lives  of  such 
men  as  Penn,  Washington,  Lafayette,  &c.,  down  to  President  McKinley. 

b  Two  volumes  in  The  Revolutionary  Series  (Cupples  &  Leon). 


356 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 

SUBJECT. 


MENOTOMY 


THE  LITTLE  MAID  OF 
CONCORD  TOWN. 
Juv. 

*THE  CAMP  FIRE  OF 
MAD      ANTHONY. 
Juv. 


*MAD  ANTHONY'S 
YOUNG  SCOUT. 
Juv. 


WON  IN  WARFARE. 
Juv. 


PEGGY  OWEN.     Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Margaret  L.  Sears 

(R.  G.  Badger,  Boston) 


"  Margaret  Sidney 
(Lothrop) 


Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(Houghton,  Mifflin) 


Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(Houghton,  Mifflin) 


Charles  R.  Kenyon 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Mrs.  Lucy  Foster  Madison 
(Penn  Pubg. Co., U.S.A.) 


TRUE   TO   THE 
FLAG.    Juv. 


I 
OLD    G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,    Eng. ;     and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


THE  GREEN  MOUN- 
TAIN BOYS  (LIB- 
ERTY OR  DEATH) 


MY  LADY  LAUGHTER 


Eliza  F.  Pollard 

(Partridge,  Eng.  ;    and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 


Dwight  Tilton 

(Dean,  Eng.  ;  and  C.  M. 
Clark,  U.S.A.) 


Early  American  Revolution 
period  ("  Menotomy  "  = 
Arlington,  Mass.). 

Concord  in  the  early  stages 
of  the  Revolution. 


The  Pennsylvania  troops 
under  Wayne  ("  Mad  An- 
thony ")  in  the  period, 
1774-76. 

Valley  Forge,  and  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Philadelphia, 
1777-8  (General  Wayne, 
Washington,  Lafayette, 
&c.). 

Young  Englishman  in  East- 
ern Tennessee  and  Ken- 
tucky, just  before  and 
during  the  Revolution. 
Battle  of  King's  Mountain. 

A  Philadelphia  Quaker 
maiden  during  the  Revolu- 
tion :  Washington's  camp, 
&c.  Introduces  Clinton, 
Tarleton,  Arnold,  and 
others. 

The  American  Revolution, 
1774-81  :  covers  Bunker 
Hill,  Saratoga,  &c.,  down 
to  Cornwallis'  surrender  at 
Yorktown. 

America  in  early  Revolution 
period  :  ends  with  Carleton 
and  Montgomery  at  Que- 
bec, 1775. 

Siege  of  Boston,  1 775  :  Wash- 
ington, Hancock,  Adams, 
Paul  Revere,  &c. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


357 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


a* DAN  MONROE.  Juv. 

*Two  CADETS  WITH 
WASHINGTON  (Se- 
quel). Juv. 

MARCHING     WITH 
MORGAN.     Juv. 

&SCOUTING     FOR) 
WASHINGTON.  Juv.  I 

MORGAN'S    MEN.  I 
Juv. 

PATRIOT  AND  TORY. 
Juv. 


NANCY  HART.     Juv. 


ANNE  NELSON.   Juv. 


DOROTHY'S  SPY.  Juv. 


GAYLE      LANGFORD. 
Juv. 

A      STRUGGLE    FOR 
FREEDOM.     Juv. 


AN  EXPRESS  OF '76. 
Juv. 


W.  O.  Stoddard 
(Lothrop) 


John  V.  Lane 

(L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 


John  Preston  True 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


Edward  S.  Ellis 
(Estes  &  Co.) 


Robert  Louis  Frear 
(C.  M.  Clark) 

Alice  Turner  Curtis 
(Fenno) 

"  James  Otis  " 
(Crowell) 


Harold  M.  Kramer 
(Lothrop  &  Co.) 

"  James  Otis  " 
(A.  L.  Burt) 


Lindley  Murray  Hubbard 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


The  Battle  of  Bunker  Hill, 
and  the  Siege  of  Boston,  in 
1775- 


Kennebec  River  region,  1775. 


American  Revolution  period, 
introducing  General 
Thomas  Sumter,  and  other 
Revolutionary  leaders  (as 
the  titles  show). 

Two  brothers  on  opposite 
sides  in  the  American 
Revolution. 

The  Revolutionary  War  in 
Georgia. 

A  little  girl  in  Province  Town 
during  the  Revolution. 

New  York  just  after  the 
Declaration  of  Indepen- 
dence. 

American  Revolution  in  the 
Declaration  period. 

The  Whaleboat  Navy  in 
1776  (American  Revolu- 
tion). 

George  Washington,  Frank- 
lin, Hamilton,  Burr,  and 
Hubbard. 


a  The  first  two  volumes  of  The  Revolutionary  Series  (Lothrop). 
b  The  first  two  volumes  in  The  Stuart  Schuyler  Series  (Little,  Brown  &  Co.). 
Against  Tory  and  Tarleton,"  the  third  volume  of  the  series,  appears  on  p.  93. 


On  Guard  ! 


358  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


aBoYS  AND  GIRLS  OF 
'77.    Juv. 


THE  FIGHT  FOR  THE 
VALLEY.    Juv. 

&THE  MINUTE  BOYS 
OF  LONG  ISLAND. 
Juv. 


THE  RIDER  OF  THE 
BLACK  HORSE.  Juv. 

MAID    OF   THE   MO- 
HAWK.   Juv. 

*A  VENTURE  IN  1777. 
Juv. 


VAN  RENSSELAER  OF 
RENSSELAERSWYCK 
(in  "Historic 
Boys").  Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Mrs.  Mary  P.  Wells  Smith 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


W.  O.  Stoddard 
(Appleton) 


"  James  Otis  " 
(Estes  &  Co.) 


Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(Houghton,  Mifflin) 

F.  A.  Ray 
(C.  M.  Clark) 

S.  Weir  Mitchell 
(Jacobs  &  Co.) 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


*THE    VAN    RENSSE-    Weymer  Jay  Mills 
LAERS      OF      OLD  j      (F.  A.  Stokes) 


MANHATTAN 
THE  RED  CHIEF.  Juv. 


Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(Houghton,  Mifflin) 


SUBJECT. 


The  farming  families  in 
Northern  Massachusetts 
during  the  Revolution : 
the  campaign  ending  in 
Burgoyne's  surrender. 

Siege  of  Fort  Schuyler,  and 
Battle  of  Oriskany  :  Gene- 
ral Burgoyne,  1777. 

New  York  in  1776  :  the  first 
reading  of  the  Declaration 
of  Independence,  the  de- 
fence of  New  York,  and  the 
Battle  of  Long  Island. 

One  of  Washington's  couriers 
in  1777. 

Mohawk  Valley  during  the 
Revolution. 

Story  of  three  boys  in  Phila- 
delphia :  Geo.  Washington 
at  Valley  Forge,  &c. 

New  York,  1777  :  Van  Rens- 
selaer's  boyhood. 


New  York  in  the  Revolution 
period,  and  under  "  Presi- 
dent "  Washington. 

Cherry      Valley      Massacre, 

1778. 


a  This  is  the  fourth  and  jast  volume  of  Mrs.  Wells  Smith's  Old  Deerficld  Series  ;  three  out  of  the 
four  volumes  appear  in  my  lists.  I  may  add  that  this  series  is  a  continuation  of  another  (dealing 
with  the  Seventeenth  Century)  entitled,  The  Young  Puritans  Series.  The  two  series  cover  the 
history  of  Western  Massachusetts  from  King  Philip's  War  down  to  the  Revolution. 

b  One  of  the  volumes  in  The  Minute  Boys  Series  (American  Revolution)  ;  the  other  stories  deal 
respectively  with  the  "  Minute  Boys  "  of  South  Carolina,  Wyoming  Valley,  Mohawk  Valley,  Green 
Mountains,  New  York  City,  Boston,  Bunker  Hill,  and  Lexington.  The  two  last-named  are  by  Edward 
Stratemeyer.  I  have  already  (p.  86)  alluded  to  another  series  of  twelve  short  tales  by  "  James  Otis," 
Stories  of  American  History  (Estes  &  Co.).  These  stories  illustrate  mainly  the  1745-80  period,  but 
one  has  for  subject — Casco  Bay  in  1676. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


359 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE     CONTINENTAL 
DRAGOON 


*LONG  KNIVES.    Juv. 


MARCHING  AGAINST 
THE  IROQUOIS. 
Juv. 

THE  PATHFINDERS  OF 
THE  REVOLUTION. 
Juv. 

ARNOLD'S  TEMPTER 


A      NEW      ENGLAND 
MAID.     Juv. 


*THE  SPY  OF  YORK- 
TOWN.    Juv. 

*ON  THE  OLD  FRON- 
TIER.    Juv. 

FIGHTING      KING 
GEORGE.     Juv. 


THE  LITTLE  LORD  OF 
THE  MANOR  (in 
"Chivalric  Days"). 
Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


R.  Neilson  Stephens  American  Revolution  in  1778 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ;  and        (Philipse    Manor    House)  : 
Page,  U.S.A.)  neutral  territory. 


G.  Gary  Eggleston 
(Lothrop  &  Co.) 


Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(Houghton,  Mifflin) 

Wm.  Elliot  Griffis 
(W.  A.  Wilde) 

B.  Comfort 
(C.  M.  Clark) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Blackie) 

W.  O.  Stoddard 
(Appleton) 

W.  O.  Stoddard 

(Hodder,     Eng. ;     and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.). 

John  T.  Mclntyre 

(Penn  Publishing  Co.) 


District  north  of  the  Ohio  : 
Clark's  Conquest.  Based 
largely  on  the  author's  own 
family  records. 

General  Sullivan's  expedition 
in  the  Iroquois  country, 
1779. 

Lake  region  of  New  York, 
&c.,  1779  :  General  Sulli- 
van. 

Benedict  Arnold  and  Major 
Andre :  the  Andre  Con- 
spiracy, 1780. 

West  Point  and  Benedict 
Arnold:  George  Washing- 
ton, Major  Andre,  &c. 


George      Washington 
Benedict  Arnold. 


and 


Last  raid  of  the  Iroquois  : 
Onandaga  Valley,  &c. 
(American  Revolution). 

Time    of    Lord    Cornwallis' 
surrender,  1781. 


Robert  W.  Chambers  American    Revolution  :     the 

(Constable,  Eng.  ;    and        end  of  the  struggle  in  1781. 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 


Elbridge  S.  Brooks 

(Blackie,   Eng.  ;       and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


The  Evacuation  of  New  York, 

1783- 


a  The  fourth  of  this  author's  special  series  of  novels  dealing  with  the  War  of  Independence. 
"  Cardigan,"  and  "The  Maid  at  Arms  "  (vide  p.  91),  are  I.  and  II.  respectively;  No.  Ml.  has  still 
1910)  to  appear. 


360  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE    LOYALISTS    OF 
MASSACHUSETTS 


DANIEL  BOONE 


THE  BLUE  OCEAN'S 
DAUGHTER 


THE  STORY  OF  PAUL 
JONES 


WITH   PAUL 
Jtiv. 


JONES. 


MY  LADY'S  SLIPPER 


MY  SWORD  FOR  LA- 
FAYETTE 


A     BLOT     ON 

SCUTCHEON 


James  H.  Stark 

(W.  B.  Clarke,  Boston) 


C.  H.  Forbes-Lindsay 
(Lippincott) 

Cyrus  T.  Brady 

(Greening,  Eng. ;   and 
Moffat,  Yard,  U.S.A.) 


Alfred  H.  Lewis 
(Dillingham  Co.) 


J.  T.  Mclntyre 

(Penn  Publishing  Co.) 

Cyrus  T.  Brady 

(Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.) 

Max  Pemberton 

(Hodder,    Eng.  ;      and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 


THE    "  May  Wynne  " 
(Mills  &  Boon) 


THE    LITTLE    BLUE 
LADY.     Juv. 


Elizabeth  Harcourt  Mit- 
chell 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


American  Revolution  period : 
Franklin,  Adams,  and 
others.  Written  from  Tory 
standpoint. 

Experiences  of  Boone,  the 
American  Pioneer. 

An  American  merchant  sea- 
captain's  daughter  in  1 780 : 
fight  with  the  English,  and 
the  adventures  ensuing. 
Ends  in  England. 

The  career  of  Paul  Jones 
presented  under  the  form 
of  historical  romance. 

Philadelphia  after  Burgoy  ne's 
surrender,  &c. 

Paris  (largely)  in  the  time  of 
Paul  Jones. 

France  and  America,  1777-8  ; 
then  Eng.,  1788  ;  lastly, 
France  and  Germany 
during  the  Revolution 
period  (Lafayette's  im- 
prisonment by  the  Aus- 
trians) . 

England  and  Brittany  in  the 
last  two  decades  of  the 
Eighteenth  Century  : 
French  Revolution  period. 
The  Prince  of  Wales  at 
Brighton,  &c. 

Young  girl  from  Normandy 
in  Paris  and  Versailles,  just 
before  the  Revolution 
(Louis  XVI.  and  Marie 
Antoinette) . 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURA— continued. 


361 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE  TRAMPLING  OF 
THE  LILIES 


THE  LAST  DUCHESS 
OF  BELGARDE 


LE  SERVITEUR  DU 
LION  DE  LA  MER. 
Juv. 

THE  LADY  OF  THE 
MOUNT 


THE  MARQUIS'  HEIR. 
Juv. 


MONSIEUR  DE  PARIS 


A  ROGUE'S  TRAGEDY 


*LA  CHANOINESSE 


VALIANT  AND  TRUE 


*LITTLE  COUNT  PAUL. 
Juv. 


Rafael  Sabatini 
(Hutchinson) 


M.  E.  Seawell 
(Appleton) 


Louis  Rousselet 
(Hachette) 


Frederick  S.  I  sham 

(Stead's  Publishing 
House,  Eng.  ;  and 
Bobbs-Merrill,U.S.A.) 

A.  H.  Biggs 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorhain,  U.S.A.) 

Mary  C.  Rowsell 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Bernard  Capes 
(Methuen) 


Andre  Theuriet 

(Armand  Colin,  Paris) 


J.  Spillmann 
(Sands  &  Co.) 


Mrs.  E.  M.  Field 
(Wells,  Gardner) 


SUBJECT. 


France  (Picardy)  just  before 
the  Revolution,  1789  ;  then 
Picardy,  Belgium,  and 
Paris  in  1793  (Robespierre). 

Begins  Court  of  Louis  XVI.  ; 
then  the  Terror  (husband 
and  wife  reconciled  as 
prisoners  in  the  Temple). 

French  Revolution  in  the 
early  period. 


Coast  of  France  (Mont  St. 
Michel)  in  early  Revolution 
days. 


Earlier  stages  of  the  French 
Revolution :  the  Marquis 
de  Bouille,  &c. 


Paris,  1789-93  :  begins  just 
before  the  Revolution. 

France  (Savoy)  on  the  eve  of 
the  Revolution. 

Eastern  France  (Meuse), 
1789,  and  1791-3  :  Bar-le- 
Duc,  Verdun,  and  Valmy. 
Prussian  War,  and  glimpse 
of  Goethe. 

Adventures  of  a  Swiss  Guards 
officer  in  the  Revolution, 
1789-92 :  Versailles,  The 
Bastille,  Tuileries,  &c. 

Brittany  and  Paris  in  the 
Revolution  period,  1791- 
94. 


362 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


ADEMOISELLE 
CELESTE 


Adele  Ferguson  Knight 
(G.   W.  Jacobs  &   Co. 
U.S.A.) 


THE  RED  CAP.     Juv.    Edward  S.  Tylee 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


INTHE LION'S  MOUTH. 
Juv. 


THE  PATH  OF  HONOR 


*LE    ROMAN    D'UNE  1 
VERSAILLAISE 


Eleanor  C.  Price 
(Macmillan) 


Burton  E.  Stevenson 
(Lippincott) 


*THE  LOSER  PAYS 


*THE  SCARLET  PIM- 
PERNEL 

*I  WILL  REPAY 

*THE  ELUSIVE  PIM- 
PERNEL 


Augustin  Billot 

(Soci6te  d'Edition  Fran-  i 
9aise    et    Etrangere, 
Paris) 


SUBJECT. 


A  love  story  of  the  French 
Revolution. 


An  English  lad's  adventures 
in  Normandy  and  Paris 
during  the  Revolution, 
I789-93- 

Two  English  children  in 
France  during  the  Revolu- 
tion, 1789-93  :  the  Ven- 
deans,  &c.  Last  chapter, 
England  in  1800. 

The  war  in  the  Bocage  (West 
France) :  love  and  ad- 
venture. 

French  Revolution  period, 
1789-97. 


Mary  Openshaw 
(Werner  Laurie) 


"  Baroness  Orczy  " 
(i.  Greening,  Eng. 
Putnam.  U.S.A. 

2.  Greening,  Eng. 
Lippincott,   U 

3.  Hutchinson, 
Greening,  Eng. 
Dodd,  Mead,  U 


;  and 

;  and 
.S.A. ; 
also 
;  and 
.S.A.) 


WHEN      TERROR    "  May  Wynne  " 
RULED  (Greening) 


IN    THE    REIGN    OF 
TERROR.    Juv. 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


France,  1791-93  :  Rougetde 
Lisle  (his  son  tells  the 
story).  The  youthful 
Napoleon. 

A  connected  series  dealing 
with  Paris,  England, 
Calais,  &c.,  in  the  1752-3 
period.  Robespierre  pro- 
minent in  the  last. 


Avignon  district  in  1792- 


England  (Chelsea),  and 
France,  1790-3.  A  West- 
minster boy  in  Paris  during 
the  Terror  (Robespierre). 


a  Owing  to  this  book's  late  appearance,  I  am  unable  to  verify  it. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


363 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  YEAR  ONE 


J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     an 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 


A  DESPERATE  VEN-    A.  L.  Haydon 

TURE.     Juv.  (Sunday  School  Union) 


IN  THE  DAYS  OF  THE 
GIRONDE.     Juv. 


*NlCOLE  (IN       THE 

NAME  OF  LIBERTY) 


Thekla  " 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


Owen  Johnson 

(Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


A     GENTLEMAN     OF  I  Percy  J.  Brebner 
VIRGINIA  (Macmillan) 


a*A   MARRIAGE     UN- 
DER THE  TERROR 


'STEPHANIE'S      CHIL- 
DREN.    Juv. 


THE    RED    CAPS    OF 
LYONS.    Juv. 


*GOLDEN  TRUST 


FOR  KING  AND  HOME. 
Juv. 

THE  KING'S  COCKADE. 
Juv. 


Brittany  and  Paris  in  1792  : 
the  Prison  of  La  Force. 
Last  chapter,  1802. 

Paris  in  the  Reign  of  Terror  : 
Camille  Desmoulins. 

Girl  in  S.  France  and  Paris  : 
Camille  Desmoulins,  Dan- 
ton,  Robespierre,  &c. 

Paris,  1792  and  1793.  Taking 
of  the  Tuileries,  Massacre 
of  the  Prisons,  &c.,  up  to 
the  end  of  the  Terror 
(Moderates  v.  Jacobites). 

A  young  Virginian  in  the 
Terror. 


Patricia  Wentworth 

(Melrose,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

Margaret  Roberts 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Hayens 

(Chambers,  Eng. ;    and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 

"  Theo  Douglas  " 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

H.  Rendel 

(Wells,  Gardner) 


Hebert   and    Danton ; 
Fouquier  Tinville. 


also 


France  and  the  Revolution, 
1792  ;  then  London  and 
the  French  hnigrts. 

Lyons,  1792-93  :  Fouche,  &cj 


England  (Northumberland), 
and  Paris,  1792  :  Robe- 
spierre. 

Western  France,  1792-3  :  the 
Rising  in  La  Vendee. 
Marquis  de  Lescure,  &c. 

Paris  and  La  Vendee,  1792-3- 
A  glimpse  of  Wordsworth 
the  poet. 


a  Miss  Wentworth  tells  of  England  and  France,  1792  (the  September  massacres,  &c.),  in  her  novel 
entitled,  "  A  Little  More  than  Kin,"  in  England  (Melrose),  and  "  More  than  Kin,"  in  America 
(Putnam). 


364  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

Two       GALLANT 
REBELS.     Juv. 

Edgar  Pickering 
(Blackie) 

English  youths  in  La  Vendee 
(La  Rochejaquelein).  Eng., 
Holland,  and  France. 

*LA     VENDEE     AUX 
GENETS 

Marcel  Batilliat 
(Mercure     de     France, 
Paris) 

The  Chouans  :  Cathelineau 
and  La  Rochejaquelein. 

STORM  AND  TREASURE 

H.  C.  Bailey 
(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     and 
Brentano's,  U.S.A.) 

La  Vendee,  1793  :  Nantes, 
&c.,  and  the  chief  Vendean 
leaders. 

DUCHENIER.     Juv. 

J.  M.  Neale 
(Christian      Knowledge 
Society,    Eng.  ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

La  Vendee,  Paris,  and  Lon- 
don, 1793-4.  William  Pitt 
the  younger,  Danton,  and 
Robespierre. 

No  SURRENDER.  Juv. 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner.  U.S.A.) 


DANGEROUS  JEWELS.;  Mary  Bramston 


Juv. 


(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker,U.S.A.) 


*A  WOMAN  FROM  THE  •  J.  Bloundelle  Burton 
SEA  (Eveleigh  Nash) 


*Sous  LA  HACHE 


Elemir  Bourges 
(Armand  Colin,  Paris) 


*LE     PETIT     Roi    Victor  Margueritte 

D 'OMBRE  (Librairie  des  Annales, 

Paris) 

THE   SHADOW   OF   A  >  F.  W.  Hayes 
THRONE  (Hutchinson) 


England  and  France,  1791-6: 
the  Rising  in  La  Vendee 
under  Cathelineau  and  La 
Rochejaquelein. 

Brittany  in  Revolution  time, 
1793  ;  and  England  (life  on 
the  Devon  moors). 

England  (Dorset)  and  Lon- 
don ;  also  France  (Arras) 
in  1793.  Time  of  the 
National  Convention. 

Later  French  Revolution 
period,  from  November, 
1793- 

Paris,  1793-5  :  the  chief  fig- 
ures of  the  period,  and  the 
mystery  of  the  Dauphin. 

The  supposed  life  of  the 
Dauphin  from  1794-1800 
(his  death).  Time  of 
Bonaparte  in  Italy.  Robe- 
spierre and  Barras.  Pro- 
logue, 1793 ;  Epilogue, 
1810  and  later. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


365 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

THE  LOST  KING 


A  FAIR  REFUGEE 


THE  REFUGEE 


Henry  Shackelford 
(Br'entano's,  U.S.A.) 


"  Morice  Gerard  " 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


C.  Gibson 
(Century  Co.) 


SOWING    AND    HAR-  i  Mary  H.  Debenham 
VESTING.     Juv.  (National  Society,  Eng.; 

and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


NOBLESSE  OBLIGE 


PATHS  PERILOUS 


THE  Goo  OF  CLAY 


A  PAWN  IN  THE  GAME 


"  M   E.  Francis  " 
(J-  Long) 

Sidney  Pickering 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


H.  C.  Bailey 

(Hutchinson,  Eng. ;  and 
Brentano's,  U.S.A.) 

W.  H.  Fitchett 

(Smith,  Elder,  Eng.  ; 
and  Eaton  &  Mains, 
U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


The  Dauphin's  supposed 
story :  Revolution  and 
after.  Marie  Antoinette, 
Count  of  Fersen,  Marat, 
and  Barras.  Napoleon  : 
firstly  as  young  officer, 
lastly  as  about  to  become 
Emperor. 

j  Young  Viscountess  escapes 
from  Paris  (Revolution 
time)  and  takes  refuge  in  a 
Cornish  village. 

A  tale  of  East  Anglia,  and  an 
unprincipled  French  Vi- 
comte  (a  "  refugee "  in 
Revolution  time).  John 
Constable,  the  painter,  as 
a  lad. 

English  girl  in  France  just 
before  the  Revolution,  but 
mainly  London  and  pro- 
vinces c.  1790-93.  Prin- 
cesse  de  Lamballe,  Burke, 
Crabbe  the  poet,  &c. 

French  Emigre  in  London, 
1794- 

Paris,  London,  Jersey  and 
Brittany  (the  Chouans), 
1794-95- 

Napoleon  from  his  youthful 
officer  days  up  to  his 
First  Consul  period. 

The  rise  of  Napoleon,  dealing 
specially  with  the  Egyptian 
campaign,  and  ending  in 
the  First  Consul  period. 


366 


SUPPLEMENT. 


EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE  Two  CAPTAINS 


*LEROUX 


*THE   LOST   EMPIRE. 
Juv. 


His  EMINENCE 


*BEATRICE  OF  VENICE 


PHANTASMA 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


Cyrus  T.  Brady 
(Macmillan) 


Bonaparte  and  Nelson,  1793- 
98  :  Toulon,  the  Mediter- 
ranean, and  Egypt  (Battle 
of  the  Nile). 


Hon.  Mrs.  Walter  R.  D.  j  France,  1783  (Prologue),  and 
Forbes  1 794  :  Bonaparte  and  Bar- 

greening)  ras.     Also  Italy  (Massena, 

&c.),  and  Switzerland. 

Capt.  C.  Gilson  i  Paris  under  the  Directoire  ; 

(H.  Frowde ;  and  Hod-  '      the   Blockade   of   Genoa  ; 
der)  Battle  of  the  Nile;    and 

the  Siege  of  Seringapatani. 
The  Nelson  -  Bonaparte 
period,  1795-9. 


Lady  Helen  Forbes 
(Eveleigh  Nash) 


Max  Pemberton 

(Hodder,     Eng.  ;      and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

A.  C.  Inchbold 
(Blackwood) 


*SoNS    OF    VICTORY,  i  O.  V.  Caine 
Juv.  (J.  Nisbet) 


*Bv     CONDUCT    AND 
COURAGE.    Juv. 


THE  COMMANDER  OF 
THE  "  HIRON- 
DELLE."  JUV. 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner.  U.S.A.) 


W.  H.  Fitchett 

(Smith,  Elder  &  Co. 


A  small  State  in  Northern 
Italy  during  the  early 
Napoleonic  period. 

Venice  and  Verona  in  1797  : 
Bonaparte  in  Italy. 


Napoleon  in  Egypt  and 
Syria. 

Earlier  Napoleonic  period, 
ending  with  Marengo,  June 
I4th,  1800. 

Adventures  of  a  Yorkshire 
lad — on  sea  and  land — in 
the  early  Nelson  period, 
about  1790-98  (Cape  St. 
Vincent,  and  Camper- 
down). 

Chiefly  Mediterranean  and 
W.  Indies,  1796-1800:  Sir 
John  Jervis  (Lord  St. 
Vincent),  Nelson,  &c.  The 
Battle  of  Cape  St.  Vincent ; 
capture  of  Treasure,  &c. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


367 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*!N     THE     DAYS     OF    Capt.  Frank  H.  Shaw 
NELSON.     Juv.  (Cassell) 


As        WE        SWEEP    Gordon  Stables 
THROUGH          THE         (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 
DEEP.    Juv. 

•  - 

CHRIS  CUNNINGHAM.  |  Gordon  Stables 
Juv.  (J.  F.  Shaw) 


THE  EXTRAORDINARY 
CONFESSIONS  OF 
DIANA  PLEASE 


AT     ABOUKIR 
ACRE.     Juv. 


*BEN  BRACE 


Bernard  Capes 
(Methuen) 


AND    G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


Frederick  Chamier 
(Routledge) 


TRE,  POL  AND  PEN. 
Juv. 


FAGS  AND  THE  KING. 
Juv. 


F.  Frankfort  Moore 

(Christian  Knowledge 
(Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Charles  J.  Mansford 
(Jarrold) 


SUBJECT. 


Boy  among  pirates  and  his 
rescue  by  one  of  Nelson's 
ships:  the  Battle  of  the 
Nile,  1798. 

Early  Nelson  period,  1793-99 
(Camperdown  and  the 
Battle  of  the  Nile). 

The  Battle  of  Cape  St.  Vin- 
cent, &c.  (Nelson). 

An  adventuress  relates  her 
experiences  (Brighton, 
Dulwich,  &c.).  Mainly  in 
the  1780-90  period.  Last 
few  chapters  deal  -with 
Naples,  1798-9 :  Lady 
Hamilton  and  Nelson. 

Egypt  from  1798-1801  : 
Napoleon,  Sir  Sidney 
Smith,  Abercrombie,  &c. 
Battle  of  the  Nile  ;  Acre  ; 
and  Alexandria. 

A  sailor's  experiences  from 
1770  through  the  whole  of 
the  Nelson  period,  and  up 
to  the  bombardment  of 
Algiers  by  Lord  Exmouth 
in  1816. 

Cornwall  (smugglers,  &c.) 
about  1798-1800  :  time  of 
Nelson's  victories. 


A  schoolboy's  adventures  at 
the  time  of  Nelson's  early 
victories :  King  George 
III.  introduced  promi- 
nently. 


368  SUPPLEMENT. 

EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
LADY  SUSAN 


GIRL  OF  THE 
EIGHTEENTH  CEN- 
TURY. Juv. 


UP    AND    DOWN    THE 

PANTILES.    Juv. 


GOD'S     PROVIDENCE 
HOUSE 

*SYLVIA'S  LOVERS 


A  ROMANCE  OF  THC 
UNDERCLIFF.  Juv. 


*M EMOIRS  OF  A 
PERSON  OF  QUALITY 
(FANSHAWE  OF  THE 
FIFTH) 


A  ROMANCE  OF  OLD 
FOLKESTONE 


Cyrus  T.  Brady 

(Greening,   Eng.  ;     and 
Moffat,  Yard,  U.S.A.) 


Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley) 


Mrs.  G.  Linnaeus  Banks 
(Kegan  Paul) 

Elizabeth  C.  Gaskell 
(Smith,     Elder ;      Geo. 
Bell;  H.  Frowde,  &c.) 


Emma  Marshall 
(Seeley) 


"  Ashton  Hilliers 
(Heinemann) 


SUBJECT. 


Frances  Marsh 
(A.  C.  Fifieid) 


Tale  of  "  High  Life  "  (Ports- 
mouth, &c.)  at  the  end  of 
the  Eighteenth  Century. 
George  III.  appears  in 
concluding  part. 

England  and  France  in  1790- 
98  period  :  Nelson,  John 
Wesley,  &c.  Ends  with 
news  of  the  Nile  victory. 

Hampstead  and  Tunbridge 
Wells  about  the  last  decade 
of  the  Eighteenth  Century  : 
Mrs.  Piozzi ;  Quakers  ;  &c. 

Chester  and  district  in  1791. 


Yorkshire  ("  Monkshaven  " 
=  Whitby)  in  the  period, 
1796-1800.  The  whaling 
trade  and  the  press-gang  ; 
Quaker  shopkeepers,  &c. 

Isle  of  Wight  in  1799. 
Escape  of  a  French 
prisoner,  &c. 

Suffolk,  Yorkshire  (largely), 
London,  &c.,  1797-99  ; 
then — towards  the  end — 
1805.  The  life  of  the 
period  is  vividly  depicted 
(Quakers,  Military  men, 
the  Fashionable  world, 
Methodists,  &c.). 

France  and  England,  end 
Eighteenth  Century  and 
beginning  Nineteenth : 
Nelson,  Lady  Hamilton, 
Romney,  Talleyrand,  &c. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


369 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


a*  THE  HISTORY  OF 
MARGARET  CATCH- 
POLE 

To  MY  KING  EVER 
FAITHFUL 


LORD  EDWARD  FITZ 

GERALD 


&THE  O'DONOGHUE 


cTHE  FOSTER-BRO- 
THERS OF  DOON. 
Juv. 


BALUNVALLEY.  Juv. 


Richard  Cobbold 

(H.     Frowde— World's 
Classics) 

George  Gilbert 
(Eveleigh  Nash) 


M.  McDonnell  Bodkin 
(Ward,  Lock  &  Co.) 


Charles  Lever 
(Routledge) 


E.  H.  Walshe 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


G.  Robert  Wynne,  D.D. 
(Christian      Knowledge 
Society,    Eng.  ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Suffolk    in    late    Eighteenth 
Century. 


Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  love  story. 
Prologue,  1782  ;  Part  I., 
1783-84  ;  Part  II.,  1785- 
89  ;  Part  III.,  1792-1800  ; 
Part  IV.,  1805-12 ;  and 
Part  V.,  1827-37. 

Begins  America  (Revolution), 
but  mainly  Ireland  about 
1780-95  :  Fitzgerald,  the 
Irish  leader.  Time  of 
Grattan  and  Curran. 

S.  Ireland  (Glenflesk)  at  the 
time  of  the  French  invasion 
scheme.  The  tale  virtu- 
ally ends  with  the  Ban  try 
Bay  disaster  (French  fleet) 
in  1796. 

Ireland,  1793-98 :  time  of 
Wolfe  Tone,  Lord  Edward 
Fitzgerald,  Grattan,  &c. 
The  scenes  at  Wexford  in 
1798. 

Ireland  (Wicklow)  in  1796, 
and  in  1798. 


a  The  imaginative  biography  of  a  real  woman,  who  lived  1773  to  1841.  Stealing  a  horse  in 
1797,  she  was  put  in  gaol,  but  escaped  in  1800.  She  was  then  transported  to  Australia,  1801  ; 
eventually  she  married,  and  lived  in  Sydney  from  1828  to  1841. 

6  Another  tale  showing  strong  Irish  sympathies  and  dealing  with  a  slightly  later  period,  is  the 
same  author's  "The  Knight  of  Gwynne."  Many  of  Charles  Lever's  novels  are  historic  or  semi- 
historic,  but  I  have  purposely  included  only  one  or  two  of  his  best  examples  in  my  lists.  Professor 
Hugh  Walker,  alluding  to  the  fact  that  many  Englishmen  derive  their  idea  of  Irish  character  from 
Lever's  "farcical  caricatures,"  remarks  that  "by  blood  he  [Lever]  was  more  English  than  Irish. 
His  father  migrated  from  Manchester  to  Ireland,  and  his  mother  too  was  of  a  family  originally  English." 
Two  of  the  most  deservedly  popular  of  Lever's  works  are  "  Tom  Burke  of  '  Our?  '  "  and  "  Charles 
O'Malley  "  (see  pp.  101  and  102  in  this  volume). 

r.  Written  from  a  decidedly  Protestant  standpoint. 

2    B 


370 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


A  PRISONER  OF  His 
WORD 


THE  NORTHERN  IRON 


aWOLFINGHAM.      JtlV. 


THE  TIGER  OF  MY- 
SORE.    Juv. 


A  ROYAL  RASCAL 


A   ROVING   COMMIS- 
SION.    Juv. 


*THE       WILDERNESS 
ROAD 


&*THE  PRAIRIE  BIRD 


RED  CITY 


Louie  Bennett 
(Maunsel,  Dublin) 


'  Geo.  A.  Birmingham 
(Maunsel,  Dublin) 

F.  Ward 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


Major  Arthur  Griffiths 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;     and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


J.  A.  Altsheler 

(Lawrence  &  Bullen, 
Eng.  ;  and  Appleton 
U.S.A.) 

Hon.  Charles  A.  Murray 
(F.  Warne  &  Co.) 


S.  Weir  Mitchell 

(Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and 
Century  Co.,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


The  Irish  Rebellion  of  '98  : 
an  Englishman  joins  the 
United  Irishmen. 

Northern  Ireland  in  1798. 


New  South  Wales  about 
1795-1812 :  Convicts  at 
Sydney. 

Southern  India,  1790-99 : 
the  war  with  Tippoo  Sahib 
(Lord  Cornwallis  and 
Seringapatam) . 

India  (Tippoo  Sahib)  ;  and 
Europe  (Peninsular  War, 
and  Waterloo). 

Hayti  in  the  last  decade  of 
the  Eighteenth  Century  : 
the  Negro  Rising  of  1791, 
&c.,  and  Toussaint 
L'Ouverture. 

Kentucky,  &c.  The  Indian 
Wars;  St.  Clair's  defeat 
in  1791,  and  Wayne's 
victory  in  1794. 

The  North  American  Indians 
about  1798,  four  years 
after  they  had  been  routed 
by  General  Wayne. 

Philadelphia,  1792-95.  Time 
of  Jefferson,  Hamilton,  &c.: 
Washington's  Second  Ad- 
ministration. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  America  and  Our  Colonies  "  (Parker's  Tales 
JUustraii»g  Church  History). 

b  I  hope  that  my  inclusion  of  this  old  favourite,  at  the  suggestion  of  "  C.  K.  S."  in  the  Sphere, 
will  do  something  to  revive  interest  to  a  book  which  so  graphically  depicts  life  under  the  unusual 
conditions  of  a  decidedly  stirring  period. 

c  Sequel  to  "  Hugh  Wynne  "  (vide  p.  91). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


371 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


MISTRESS  JOY 


Grace  MacGowan  Cooke 
and    Annie    Booth 
McKinney 
(Century  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


Mississipi  and  New  Orleans 
in  1798  :  time  of  Aaron 
Burr. 


NINETEENTH  CENTURY. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*CARETTE     OF     SARK    John  Oxenham 

(A  MAN  OF  SARK)         (Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


THE  GLASSMAKER  OF 
YARMOUTH 


WITH     NELSON     IN 
COMMAND.     Juv. 


*His  MAJESTY'S  SLOOP  H.  S.  Huntington 
DIAMOND  ROCK  (Hotighton,  Mifflin) 


K.  M.  Guthrie 

(English  Illustrated 
Magazine,  October, 
1905) 

Robert  Leighton 
(Melrose) 


SUBJECT. 


DIAMOND  ROCK.  Juv. 

*!N    NELSON'S    DAY. 
Juv. 


'TWAS    IN    TRAFAL- 
GAR'S BAY 


J.  Macdonald  Oxley 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

George  Hewett 
(Wells  Gardner) 


Walter  Besant  and  James 

Rice 

(Chatto,     Eng.  ;      and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 


Sark  in  the  year  1800. 


The  landing  of  Nelson  at 
Yarmouth  on  Nov.  6, 
1800 ;  and  the  second 
landing  on  July  i,  1801. 

The  Battle  of  the  Baltic, 
1801. 

An  islet  near  Martinique 
armed  by  the  British  as  a 
sloop  of  war,  1802-3 
(Nelson). 

Diamond  Rock,  and  Trafal- 
gar, ending  with  the  latter. 

The  press-gang  :  a  lad  carried 
off  to  serve  in  the  1802-05 
wars  (Nelson  and  Trafal- 
gar). 

Lyme  Regis  and  district  in 
1803  (chiefly),  and  in  1805  : 
smuggling  in  the  French 
War  and  Nelson  period. 


372  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*THE  GENTLEMAN- 


ENGLAND    EXPECTS. 
Juv. 


*THE  YARN   OF  OLD 
HARBOUR  TOWN 


IN  NELSON'S  DAY 


THE  YOUNG  DAYS  OF 
ADMIRAL  QUILLIAM 


NELSON'S      YANKEE 
BOY.     Juv. 


*ANDREW    GOOD- 
FELLOW.     Juv. 

NELLIE  OF  THE  EIGHT 
BELLS 

HOLBORN  HILL 


THE  CHILD  OF  THE 
LIGHTHOUSE.     Juv. 


A  HAZARDOUS  WOO- 
ING 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Alfred  Ollivant 

(Murray,     Eng.  ;      and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 


Frederick  Harrison 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

W.  Clark  Russell 

(Unwin,    Eng.  ;     and 
Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 

G.  Rowe 
(W.  Scott) 

"  F.  Norreys  Connell  " 
(Blackwood) 


F.  H.  Costello 

(Henry  Holt  &  Co.) 


Mrs.  Herbert  Watson 
(Macmillan) 

Archer  Philip  Crouch 
(J-  Long) 

Christian  Tearle 
(Mills  &  Boon) 

Marion  Andrews 
(Wells  Gardner) 


James  Blyth 

(Ward,  Lock  &  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 

Attempt  of  Napoleon  to  kid- 
nap Nelson.  Sussex  coast 
(Eastbourne  district)  in 
1805,  a  few  weeks  before 
Trafalgar. 

The  end  of  the  Nelsonian 
period  :  Trafalgar. 


Naval    life    in    the    year    of 
Trafalgar,  1805  (Nelson). 


Cromer  in  the  time  of  Nelson  ; 
Trafalgar,  &c. 

Adventures  in  the  Napoleon 
and  Nelson  period  :  Tra- 
falgar. 

Nelson  at  Trafalgar,  and — 
later — the  American  War 
of  1812. 

Plymouth  in  1805. 


Portsmouth  in  Nelson's  day  : 
Trafalgar. 

The  London  of  Nelson's  day. 


Southampton,  The  Needles, 
and  Normandy,  in  the 
Nelson  and  Napoleon 
period  (chiefly  1801-2). 

Yarmouth  and  district  just 
before  and  during  the 
Christmas  of  1803. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


373 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE  ROGUE  OF  RYE 

*THE  WITCH  MAID 
JACK  HARDY.     Juv. 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF 
DICK  TREVANION. 
Juv. 

THE  SENTINEL  OF 
WESSEX 


*THE  TRUMPET-MAJOR 


*A     GENTLEMAN 
LONDON 


W.  Willmott  Dixon 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


L.  T.  Meade 
(J.  Nisbet) 

Herbert  Strang 

(Hodder,     Eng.  ;      and 
Bobbs-Merrill,  U.S.A.) 


Herbert  Strang 
(H.Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


C.  King  Warry 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Thomas  Hardy 
(Macmillan) 


"  Morice  Gerard  " 
(Eveleigh  Nash) 


THE    SOVEREIGN'  Violet  A.  Simpson 
POWER  (Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


THE  LUCK  OF  LEDGE 
POINT.     Juv. 


LADY  FABIA 


SUBJECT. 


Dorothea  Moore 
(Blackie) 


Edith  E.  Cowper 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


Rye  and  Winchelsea,  and  the 
French  fortress  of  Verdun, 
1803. 

The  Quakers  in  1 803  :  Eliza- 
beth Fry. 

English  South  Coast  in  the 
Nelson  and  Napoleon 
period;  smugglers,  &c., 
about  1804. 

Smuggling  in  Cornwall,  dur- 
ing the  year  1804. 


Isle  of  Portland  :  Napoleonic 
invasion  scare,  and  the 
Methodist  Revival. 

Dorsetshire  coast  in  time  of 
Napoleonic  invasion  scare  : 
the  Weymouth  of  George 
III. 

Opens  West  Indies,  1802  ; 
then  coast  of  Normandy. 
1805  (Murat,  &c.).  Time 
of  Napoleon's  threatened 
invasion  of  England. 

Sussex  coast  in  1805 :  a 
French  invasion  plot.  The 
Prince  of  Wales  appears 
somewhat  prominently. 

Two  girls  at  Ledge  Point, 
Cornwall,  during  the  inva- 
sion scare,  1805. 

Smuggling  and  adventure  on 
the  English  South  Coast, 
1805. 


374 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


*THE  INFAMOUS  JOHN 
FRIEND 


THE  SECOND  BLOOM 


THE         SPANISH 
PRISONER 


TRUE      MAN 
TRAITOR 

*  ROBERT  EMMET 


aAi    THE    POINT    OF 
THE  BAYONET.  Juv. 


*PANDURANG  HARI 


Mrs.  R.  S.  Garnett 

(Duckworth,  Eng. ;  and 
Holt,  U.S.A.) 

Helen  Porter 
(Greening) 


Mrs.   Philip  C.   De  Cres- 

pigny. 
(Eveleigh  Nash) 


M.  McDonnell  Bodkin 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

Stephen  Gwynn 
(Macmillan) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


Anonymous 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 


SUBJECT. 


Brighton,  London,  Hythe, 
&c.,  about  1805  :  William 
Pitt  and  Napoleon. 

Begins  Venice,  1788  ;  then 
backwards  and  forwards 
between  London,  Scotland 
(Perth,  &c.),  and  Italy, 
1801-5  ;  supposed  son  of 
the  Young  Pretender. 

Spain  (Valladolid),  1805,  and 
England  (Portsmouth)  : 
begins  with  the  news  of 
Trafalgar. 

Emmet,  the  Irish  patriot,  in 
1803. 

Ditto. 


India  in  the  period,  1779- 
1804.  The  Mahrattas,  and 
their  leaders,  Holkar  and 
Scindia :  the  Battles  of 
Assaye  and  Laswari,  in 
1803. 

Supposed  memoirs  of  a 
Hindoo,  relating  to  life 
among  the  Mahrattas  in 
the  troublous  period,  1801 
onwards  ;  last  years  of  the 
Peeshwas'  rule. 


JONES  OF  THE  64TH.  |  Capt.  F.  S.  Brereton  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley  and  the 

Juv.  (Blackie,     Eng. ;      and  I      Mahrattas,  1803  :    Battles 

Caldwell,  U.S.A.)  of  Assaye  and  Laswari. 


THE  ARK  OF  1803        C.  A.  Stephens 


(A.  S.  Barnes,  U.S.A.) 


The      Louisiana      Purchase, 
1803. 


a  The  sole  instance  of  repetition  in  these  lists.     This  book  has  already  appeared  on  p.  99,  but  a 
much  latter  description  of  it  is  given  here. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


375 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE    ROSE   OF   OLD 
ST.  Louis 


«THE  BOY  COURIER  OF 
NAPOLEON.    Juv. 


CLOTILDE.    Juv. 


THE  CODE  OF  VICTOR 
JALLOT 

^HEARTS  TRIUMPHANT 


*  LEWIS  RAND 


A  VOLUNTEER  WITH 
PIKE 


C*DECATUR        AND 
SOMERS.     Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Mary  Dillon 
(Century  Co.) 


SUBJECT. 


America  in  the  Louisiana 
Purchase  period  (Thomas 
Jefferson)  ;  and  France 
(Napoleon,Talleyrand,&c.) . 


William  C.  Sprague  Europe  (French  Wars  ;    Ho- 

(Lothrop.Lee  &Shepard)  henlinden,  &c.),  and 
America  (the  Louisiana 
Purchase)  in  the  period 
1800-1803. 


Marguerite  Bouvet 
(A.  C.  McClurg) 


Edward  Childs  Carpenter 
(G.  W.  Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 

Edith  Sessions  Tupper 
(Appleton) 


Mary  Johnston 

(Constable,  Eng.  ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin, 
U.S.A.) 

Robert  Ames  Bennet 
(A.  C.  McClurg) 


Molly  E.  Seawell 
(Appleton) 


A  little  girl  in  New  Orleans 
just  before  the  Louisiana 
Purchase. 

New  Orleans,  about  1803. 


j  Manhattan  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Nineteenth  Century ; 
Aaron  Burr,  and  Prince 
Jerome  Bonaparte. 

Richmond,  Virginia,  in  the 
first  decade  of  the  Nine- 
teenth Century  ;  period  of 
Hamilton,  Aaron  Burr, 
Jefferson,  &c. 

America,  1805.  Time  of 
Zebulon  Pike,  Aaron  Burr, 
and  Thomas  Jefferson. 

Stephen  Decatur,  the  Ameri- 
can naval  commander,  in 
the  Mediterranean  ;  the 
war  with  Tripoli.  Covers 
the  period,  1798-1804  (last 
few  pages  1810). 


a  One  of  two  volumes  in  The  Making  of  Our  Nation  Series. 

1}  In  connection  with  Aaron  Burr  and  his  times,  Warren  Wood's  handsome  volume,  "  The  Tragedy 
of  the  Deserted  Isle  "  (C.  M.  Clark,  Boston),  has  been  described  as  "  an  American  Historical  Novel  "  ; 
this  book  is  not  a  work  of  fiction,  but — as  its  author  states — a  careful  chronicle  or  history  of  the  Burr 
and  Blennerhassett  Conspiracy  at  the  beginning  of  the  Nineteenth  Century. 

c  One  of  the  volumes  in  the  Young  Heroes  of  Our  Navy  Series.  In  this  series  are  Miss  Sea  well's 
"  Little  Jarvis  "  (vide  p.  98),  and  "  Midshipman  Paulding  "  (p.  380)  ;  James  Barnes's  "  Midshipmau 
Farragut  "  (p.  379)  ;  and  a  few  more  tales  of  Paul  Jones,  &c.,  by  the  above-named  and  other  writers. 
They  are  largely  based  on  fact,  but  with  a  considerable  fictional  element. 


376  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE         IMPRISONED    Molly  E.  Seawell 
MIDSHIPMAN  (Appleton) 


REZANOV 


«THE  TIMELY  BARON 
(in  "A  Feast  of 
Stories  from 
Foreign  Lands  "). 
Juv. 


Gertrude  Atherton 
(J.  Murray) 

James  F.  Cobb 
(Wells  Gardner) 


Capture  of  the  American 
frigate,  Philadelphia,  in 
the  war  with  Tripoli. 

Russian  diplomat  in  Cali- 
fornia, 1806. 

Moravia  in  1800,  just  after 
Marengo. 


*Bv  NEVA'S  WATERS    John  R.  Carling  j  Murder  of  the  Emperor  Paul 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ;  and  ;      (Russia)   in   1801  :    Eliza- 
Little,  Brown,  U.S.A.)       beth  of  Baden,  Alexander 
I.'s  wife,  plays  an  impor- 
tant part. 

I  •  ,-tt  '  . 

*THE  BLACK  PILGRIM  !  Michal  Czajkowski  (trans.)    The  Slavs'  struggle  for  free- 


*THE  SERFS  (in  "  A 
Feast  of  Stories 
from  Foreign 
Lands ").  Juv. 

Two    ROYAL    FOES. 
Juv. 


(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


James  F.  Cobb 
(Wells  Gardner) 


Eva  Madden 

(McClure,  U.S.A.) 


*DEUTSCHE  MANNER    j  W.  Jensen 

(Grethlein,  Berlin) 


NAPOLEON'S 
STORY 


dom  in  the  Danube  dis- 
trict (Balkans),  about  1806. 
Time  of  Alexander  I.  of 
Russia. 

Prussia,  1807 :  the  Aboli- 
tion of  Serfage  by  Baron 
von  Stein. 


Napoleon's       invasion       of 
Prussia :   Queen  Louisa. 

Germany  in  the  Napoleonic 
period,  especially  1809. 


LOVE    Waclaw  Gasiorowski 

(trans.) 
(Duckworth) 

Mary  Openshaw 
(Werner  Laurie) 


Warsaw  in   1806: 
Walewska. 


Madame 


Paris  (Prologue),  but  chiefly 
Warsaw  in  1806 :  Marie 
Walewska  and  Napoleon. 
Also  the  Dauphin,  &c. 


a  An  exceedingly  brief  tale,  but  a  most  unusual  subject. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


377 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


JULIETTE 


*LA     SORCIERE     DU 

VESUVE 


FORCE 


L'ENFANT    D'Aus- 
TERLITZ 

*FLEUR-DE-CAMP 


DUEL    (in    "  A 
Set   of   Six  ") 


*THE  CZAR.     Juv. 


*LAURISTONS 


*  AGAINST  THE  STREAM. 
Juv. 


Edoardo  Calandra 

(Societa     Tipografica — 
Editrice    Nazionale, 
Turin) 

Gustave  et  Georges  Tou- 

douze 
(Hachette  et  Cie) 


Paul  Adam 

(Ollendorf,  Paris) 


A.  Godric  Campbell 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 

Joseph  Conrad 

(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     and 
McClure,  U.S.A.) 

Deborah  Alcock 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


John  Oxenham 
(Methuen) 


Mrs.  Rundle  Charles 
(Christian      Knowledge 
Society.    Eng. ;     and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Turin  in  1807  : 
period. 


Napoleonic 


Resistance  of  the  Calabrians 
to  the  French  in  1808. 


j  (i)  France,  1797-1809  :    Di- 
rectoire  —  Empire  period. 

(2)  France,    1810-22  :     Em- 
pire —  Restoration  period. 

Napoleon,  1805-15  :    Auster- 
litz,  Eylau,  and  Waterloo. 

Two   French  officers  in   the 
Napoleonic  period,    1801- 


Russia  in  the  Napoleonic  War 
period  and  after  (Moscow 
district,  St.  Petersburg, 
&c.)  ;  Alexander  I.  from 
1806-25  (death). 

England  (London  and  dis- 
trict), and  France,  in  the 
1800-15  period  :  a  London 
Banking  House.  Glimpses 
of  Burke,  Fox,  Pitt.  Duke 
of  Kent,  Bonaparte,  Talley- 
rand, &c.  Ends  Waterloo, 
and  first  conveyance  of  the 
news  to  London. 

Religious  and  Anti-Slavery 
movements  in  the  1800-15 
period  ;  time  of  William 
Wilberforce,  Pitt,  Fox,  &c. 


a  These  two  novels,  covering   the  Napoleonic  period,  are  in  the  series  to 
given  the  general  title,  "  Le  Temps  et  la  Vie  :  histoire  d'un  ideal  a  travers  les  si< 


which  the  author  has 
given  the  general  title,  "  Le  Temps  et  la  Vie  :  histoire  d'un  ideal  a  travers  les  siecles." 

ft  In  this  short  story  historic  events  form  the  merest  background,  but  there  is  one  brilliant  sketch 
of  the  Moscow  Retreat. 


378  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SONS  OF  THE  VIKINGS. 
Juv, 

THROUGH  THE  FRAY. 
Juv. 


H  i  -  S  P  Y  -  H  i  !  (in 
"The  Merry  Gar- 
den," &c.) 


*THE  STOOPING  LADY 


*TWISTED  EGLANTINE 


THE      SHADOW 
EVIL 


John  Gunn 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


SUBJECT. 


Two  young  Orcadians  in  the 
time  of  the  Napoleonic 
Wars. 


G.  A.  Henty  Yorkshire,      1807-13  :       the 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and        Luddite  movement. 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 
(Methuen) 


;  Cornwall  (Looe  and  Fal- 
mouth),  1808  :  local  "  vol- 
unteer artillery  "  in  Napo- 
leonic War  time.  An 
amusing  little  sketch. 


Maurice  Hewlett  London,   1809-10  :    attitude 

(Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and  j      of     the     Classes     to     the 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.)  i      Common  Folk. 

H.  B.  Marriott  Watson       j  Hants   about    1809.     Period 
(Methuen,    Eng. ;     and        of  the  "  Beaux  "   (Prince 
Appleton,  U.S.A.)  George). 


"  Dick  Donovan  " 
(Everett) 


a*WEiR   OF    HERMIS-    R.  L.  Stevenson 

TON  (Chatto,     Eng.  ;      and 

Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


POISON  ISLAND 


THE  LIGHT  OF  SCAR- 
THEY 


j  Based  on  the  adventures  of 
an  early  Nineteenth  Cen- 
tury rogue,  James  Mac- 
koull,  who  died  in  Edin- 
burgh jail. 

j  The  hero  of  this  unfinished 
romance  was  suggested  by 
the  celebrated  Scottish 
judge,  Lord  Braxfield 
(1722-99) ;  Stevenson  fixes 
his  imaginary  events  some 
fifteen  years  after  the  date 
of  the  actual  judge's  death. 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch  !  Falmouth     and     the 

(Smith,     Elder,     Eng.  ;  j      Indies,  1813-14. 
and  Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


West 


Egerton  Castle 
(Macmillan  ;  and  Collins) 


"  Gold -smuggling  "  in  the 
French  War  time,  1814- 
15  :  Lancashire  coast. 


a  Professor  Hugh  Walker  considers  that  this  mere  fragment  has  "  a  grandeur  which  few  com- 
plete novels  possess." 


SUPPLEMENT. 


379 


NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  AMERICAN  PRI- 
SONER 


*OUT  OF  THE  CYPRESS 
SWAMP  -» 


Eden  Phillpotts 
(Methuen) 


Edith  Rickert 
(Methuen) 


War  prison  on  Dartmoor  at 
the  time  of  the  1812  War 
with  America. 

Louisiana,  1808 ;  then  the 
War  Period,  1812-15 
(General  Andrew  Jackson, 
and  the  Battle  of  New 
Orleans) . 


BY  THE  ETERNAL 


Opie  Read 

(Laird  &  Lee,  U.S.A.) 


MIDSHIPMAN  FARRA-  !  James  Barnes 
GUT.     Juv.  (Appleton) 


a*A  LOYAL  TRAITOR. 
Juv. 


&THE  WAR  OF   1812. 
Juv. 


cA.  YANKEE  SHIP  AND 
A  YANKEE  CREW. 
Juv. 

THE  YOUNG  PRIVA- 

TEERSMAN.      Juv. 


James  Barnes 
(Harper) 


Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(Silver,  Burdett  &  Co., 
New  York) 

John  de  Morgan 

(McLoughlin,  New  York) 


General  Andrew  Jackson  as 
hero. 

David  Glasgow  Farragut  (the 
American  Admiral)  as  a 
lad. 

The  hero  starts  as  a  Connecti- 
cut village  waif,  1809 ; 
then  goes  through  various 
experiences  on  board  a 
privateer,  and  as  prisoner 
in  England,  &c.  (War  of 
1812). 

Semi-fictional  stories  of  the 
War. 


The  War  of  1812. 


W.  O.  Stevens  and  Barclay  i  Three   Baltimore   youths   in 


McKee 
(Appleton) 


the  War  of  1812  ;  their 
capture  by  the  English, 
and  their  escape  from 
Dartmoor  prison,  &c. 


a  Mr.  Barnes — who  has  written  a  non-fictional  work  on  the  Naval  Actions  of  this  particular 
American  period — is  the  author  of  another  juvenile  romance,  "  For  King  or  Country  "  (Harper)  ; 
this  latter  is  a  Revolution  story. 

6  Mr.  Tomlinson  has  also  written  several  stories  under  the  general  title,  The  War  of  1812  Seriet 
(Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard). 

•  •  One  in  a  series  of  historical  tales  by  the  same  author. 


380  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


THE   BOY   TARS   OF 
1812.     Juv. 


J.  T.  Mclntyre 
(Perm,  U.S.A.) 


•MIDSHIPMAN  PAULD-  j  Molly  E.  Seawell 
ING.     Juv.  (Appleton) 


MIDSHIPMAN  STUART.  I  Kirk  Munroe 
Juv.  (Scribner) 

A     MIDSHIPMAN     IN    Cyrus  T.  Brady 
THE  PACIFIC.    Juv.        (Scribner) 

IN  THE  WASP'S  NEST,  j  Cyrus  T.  Brady 
Juv.  (Scribner) 


BY     WILD     WAVES  j  Captain  Jack  Brand 
TOSSED      Juv.  (McClure) 

THE  TREASURE.  Juv.\  Paul  W.  Eaton 
(Fenno) 


WHEN    WILDERNESS  j  Randall  Parrish 
WAS  KING  (A.  C.  McClurg) 


BLACK     PARTRIDGE.  |  Col.  H.  R.  Gordon 
Juv.  (W.  &  R.  Chambers) 


^AMERICAN 
Juv. 


PATTY. 


A  BEAUTIFUL  REBEL 


SUBJECT. 


Adele  E.  Thompson 
(Lothrop) 


Wilfrid  Campbell 

(Hodder,     Eng.  ;      and 
Doran,  U.S.A.) 


Two  lads  in  the  "  Constitu- 
tion "  and  "  Guerriere  " 
conflict ;  also  the  Battle  of 
New  Orleans  (General 
Jackson). 

Lieut.  Hiram  Paulding  on 
land  and  sea.  1813-14. 
Ends  with  full  description 
of  the  Battle  of  Lake 
Champlain,  September  n, 
1814. 

The  last  cruise  of  the  Essex 
(War  of  1812). 

Ditto. 


"  A  story  of  the  Sea  Wolf  "  in 
the  War  of  1812. 


Naval  experiences  during  the 
War  of  1812. 


Finding   of   Captain    Kidd's 
Treasure  (War  of  1812). 

The  Fall  of  Fort  Dearborn 
(now  Chicago)  in  1812. 

Ditto. 


A  young  American  girl's  ex- 
periences in  Canada  during 
the  War  of  1812. 

Upper  Canada  in  1812  :  the 
Battle  of  Queenstown,  and 
Sir  Isaac  Brock. 


a  The  fifth  and  last  of  the  author's  Brave  Heart  Series  ;  other  volumes  deal  with  the  American 
Revolution,  Scotland  and  the  '45  (Flora  Macdonald),  &c. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


THE  BELLE  OF  BOWL- 
ING GREEN 


BRONSON     OF     THE 
RABBLE 

IN   THE   DICTATOR'S 
GRIP.     Juv. 


IF  YOUTH  BUT  KNEW 


*THE  KING'S  REVOKE 


'TENTION  !     Juv. 


CORPORAL  SAM 


THE  YOUNG  BUGLERS. 
Juv. 


LADS   OF  THE  LIGHT 
DIVISION.     Juv. 


'Boys  OF  THE  LIGHT 
BRIGADE  (LIGHT 
BRIGADE  IN 
SPAIN).  Juv. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Amelia  E.  Barr 

(J.    Long,    Eng.  ;     and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

Albert  E.  Hancock 
(Lippincott) 

John  Samson 
(Blackie) 


Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 

(Smith,     Elder,     Eng.  ; 

and  Macmillan.U.S.A.) 

Margaret  L.  Woods 

(Smith,     Elder,    Eng.  ; 
and  Dutton,  U.S.A.) 


G.  Manville  Fenn 

(Chambers,  Eng.  ;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 

G.  A.  Henty 
(H.  Frowde ;  and  Hodder) 


Lieut.-Colonel  A.  F.  Mock- 

ler-Ferryman 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Herbert  Strang 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


SUBJECT. 


Dutch  families  in  New  York : 
period  of  the  1812  War. 


Philadelphia       during 
period  1812-28. 


the 


Begins  W.  England,  1806 ; 
then  S.  America  (the 
Pampas  and  Paraguay) 
mainly  in  the  period,  1807- 
14.  The  end  of  Spanish 
rule,  and  the  rise  of  Dr. 
Francia. 

Westphalia  in  the  time  of 
Jerome  Bonaparte  (about 
1812). 

Spain  under  Joseph  Bona- 
parte :  attempted  rescue 
of  Ferdinand  VII.  when 
confined  at  Vale^ay. 

Adventures  of  two  English 
lads  in  Spain  during  the 
Peninsular  War  (King  Fer- 
dinand, &c.). 

A  short  story  of  the  Penin- 
sular War  (San  Sabastian). 

The  Peninsular  War  — cover- 
ing all  the  great  battles 
from  Talavera  to  Vittoria 
and  Toulouse,  1809-14. 
(Begins  Eton,  1808.) 

Battles  of  Talavera,  Torres 
Vedras,  and  Ciudad  Rod- 
rigo. 

A  tale  of  the  Peninsular  War : 
Corunna,  Saragossa,  &c. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


FIRELOCK  AND  STEEL.'  Harold  A  very 
Jiw.  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


RAIN  OF  DOLLARS 
(in  "  Shakespeare's 
Christmas,"  &c.) 

THE  SPY  :  A  STORY 
OF  THE  PENIN- 
SULAR WAR.  Juv. 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 

(Smith,  Elder,  Eng.  ; 
and  Longmans, 
U.S.A.) 

Captain  Charles  Gilson 
(H.  Frowde;  and  Hod- 
der) 


THE  LAMP  AND  THE  j  A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 
GUITAR  (in  "Shake- !      (Smith,    Elder,     Eng.; 
speare's        Christ-  I          and        Longmans, 
mas,"  &c.)  U.S.A.) 

STRONG  MAC  I  S.  R.  Crockett 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng. ;  and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

A       YOUNG       MAN  j  "  Sydney  C.  Grier  " 
MARRIED  (Hutchinson) 

THE  FIGHTERS  ;  Lady  Violet  Greville 

(Chapman  &  Hall) 


THE    WATCHER    ON  j  A.  G.  Hales 
THE  TOWER  (Fisher  Unwin) 

FOR  THE  EMPEROR,  j  Eliza  F.  Pollard 
Juv.  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


SUBJECT. 


*Moscow 


aCAPTAIN         KlRKE 

WEBBE 


F.  Whishaw 

(Longmans  &  Co.) 

F.  W.  Hayes 
(Hutchinson) 


Sir  John  Moore's  campaign, 
ending  in  Corunna. 

Sir  John  Moore's  army,  and 
the  retreat  upon  Corunna, 
1809. 


The  Battle  of  Talavera,  1809, 
and  the  storming  of  Bada- 
joz,  1812. 

Wellington  and  the  Battle  of 
Salamanca,  1811-12. 


Scotland  and  Spain,  1812-13 
(Peninsular  War). 


Spain,  1812-13  :  Battle  of 
Vittoria. 

Begins  Paris,  1809  (Napo- 
leon) ;  then  England 
(Hythe)  and  Spain,  1810- 
14 ;  Wellington  and  the 
Peninsular  War. 

Russia  during  the  Napoleonic 
invasion. 

A  girl's  experiences  in  Russia 
during  the  French  invasion 
(Moscow  Retreat,  &c.). 

Napoleon's  Russian  cam- 
paign, 1812  :  Paris,  Mos- 
cow, and  St.  Petersburg. 

A  tale  of  mystery  and  adven- 
ture, 1814  :  Brittany,  and 
Normandy.  A  privateer 
captain. 


a  Based  on  the  unfinished  story  of  "  Kirke  Webbe,"  by  Win.  Russell  ("  Waters  "). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


383 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  HUNDRED  DAYS 


Max  Pemberton 
(Cassell) 


Napoleon,     from     Elba     to 
Waterloo. 


FROM    PLAYGROUND    Frederick  Harrison  England,  1815  (School  life)  ; 

TO     BATTLEFIELD.        (Christian     Knowledge  ;      then  the  Battles  of  Quatre 

Juv.  Society,    Eng.  ;     and        Bras  and  Waterloo. 

Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

WITH     WELLINGTON  •  Harold  Avery 
TO  WATERLOO.  Juv.        (Wells  Gardner) 


ST.  DUNSTANS  FAIR. 
Juv. 

*BROWN.     Juv. 


NAPOLEON'S   YOUNG 
NEIGHBOUR.     Juv. 


Mary  and  Catherine  Lee 
(National  Society,  Eng. ; 
and  Whittaker,  U.S.A.) 

Dorothea  Moore 

(Nisbet,  Eng.  ;  and 
Eaton  &  Mains, 
U.S.A.) 

Helen  Leah  Reed 

(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


THE       HEART       OF    Margaret  Mordecai 
BOSNIA   (in  "  The        (G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 
Flower  of  Destiny," 
&c.) 

THE  SECOND  ANSWER  Captain  Rowan  Hamilton 
(F.  V.  White) 


*THE     KNIGHTS     OF 
LIBERTY.     Juv. 


LOVE  AND  RAN- 
SOM.   Juv. 


Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Esme  Stuart 
(Jarrold) 


Wellington's  army,  June  14 
to  June  18,  1815. 

Kent  village  life  in  1815  :  war 
rumours  culminating  in  the 
news  of  Waterloo. 

A  small  boy  in  Cambridge, 
1815  :  smuggling  in  the 
Fenlands.  The  Duke  of 
Wellington. 

Napoleon's  friendship  for  a 
little  girl;  St.  Helena, 
1815. 

Bosnia  in  1815. 


The  allies  in  Paris,  &c., 
1815-18. 

France  under  the  Bourbons 
from  1815  (Paris  just  after 
Waterloo).  General  Lafa- 
yette ;  the  "Carbonari," 
&c. 

S.  Italy  (Apulia  and  Naples), 
1814-15.     Murat's     over- 
throw by  the  Austrians  ; 
his  flight ;    lastly  his  cap- 
ture, and  death,  in  October 
1815.     Last  chapter,  Eng 
land,  1816. 


«  This  interesting  tale  may  be  read  advantageously  as  a  prelude  to  Crockett's  "  The  Silver  Skull  " 
(see.p.  385) ;  the  latter  book  deals  with  Apulia  in  the  five  years  alter  Murat's  death. 


384  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*A  ROYAL  WARD 


SIR  DAVID'S  VISITORS 


FLOWER      o" 
ORANGE 


WROTH 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Percy  J.  Brebner 

(Cassell,     Eng.  ;      and 
Little,  Brown,  U.S.A.) 

"  Sarah  Tytler  " 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 
(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 
(Smith,  Elder,  Eng.;  and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 


*  RUNNING         HORSE  ;  A.  T.  Sheppard 

INN  (Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and 

Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 


*STARVECROW    FARM 


*THE  APPRENTICE 


NORTH  OVERLAND 
WITH  FRANKLIN. 
Juv. 


THE    LAST  OF    THE 
PESHWAS.    Juv. 


«THE  CATECHUMENS 
OF  THE  COROMAN- 
DEL  COAST.  Juv. 


Stanley  Weyman 

(Hutchinson,  Eng. ;  and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

Maud  Stepney  Rawson 
(Hutchinson) 

J.  Macdonald  Oxley 
(Crowell,  U.S.A.) 


M.  Macmillan 
(Blackie) 


F.  Ward 

(Parker,  Oxford) 


SUBJECT. 


S.  Devon  (smugglers,  &c.), 
and  London,  in  the  days  of 
the  Prince  Regent. 

Kensington  in  Regency  days  : 
Sir  David  Wilkie,  Sir 
Thomas  Lawrence,  and 
Mrs.  Siddons. 

The  Galloway  Coast  in  1816  . 


Love  and  adventure,  1816-17  : 
Kent  (Tunbridge  Wells). 
Compiegne,  Florence,  &c. 

Kent  (Herne  Bay)  and  Lon- 
don, in  the  years  after 
Waterloo  ;  the  Spa  Fields 
Riot  in  1816. 


England's  poverty  in  1819 
the  Lake  District. 


Sussex  (Rye  district)  in  1820. 


Hudson  Bay  Company's 
quarters  in  Canada :  Sir 
John  Franklin  as  R.N. 
Lieutenant. 

The  Third  Mahratta  War, 
1817-18:  Elphinstone  and 
Baji  Rao. 

India  about  1817-18,  at  the 
time  of  the  Mahratta  War. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  America  and  Our  Colonies  "  (Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


385 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  SILVER  SKULL 


S.  R.  Crockett 

(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


*A  CAPTAIN  OF  IRREG- 
ULARS.   Juv. 

*lN  THE  GRIP  OF  THE 

SPANIARD.     Juv. 


*WlTH  COCHRANE  THE 

DAUNTLESS.     Juv. 


HE  LOVED  BUT  ONE 


THE  CASTAWAY 


THE  MAID  OF  ATHENS 

IN  GREEK  WATERS. 
Juv. 

*GLENANAAR 


*A  MIDDY  OF  THE 
SLAVE  SQUADRON. 
Juv. 


Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


F.  Frankfort  Moore 
(Eveleigh  Nash) 

H.  Erminie  Rives 

(Collier,      Eng.   ;      and 
Bobbs-Merrill,  U.S.A.) 

Emily  Lafayette  McLaws 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

P.  A.  Sheehan 
(Longmans) 


"  H.»Collingwood 
(Blackie) 


S.  Italy  (Apulia),  mainly  in 
the  1815-20  period.  Bri- 
gands, and  their  final  sup- 
pression by  the  English- 
man, Richard  Church, 
acting  as  General  in  the 
Neapolitan  service  (Ferdi- 
nand I.). 

Chili,  and  the  struggle  with 
the  Spaniards,  1816-18. 

Bolivar,  the  liberator,  in 
1 818-2 1  :  Venezuela  and 
New  Grenada. 

Lord  Cochrane  in  S.  America, 
1819-25  :  the  securing  of 
independence  for  Chili, 
Peru,  and  Brazil. 

Lord  Byron  and  Mary  Cha- 
worth. 

Lord  Byron  and  his  contem- 
poraries ;  Shelley,  Moore, 
Mary  Godwin,  &c. 

Lord  Byron  and  Greece. 


Greece,  1821-23 :  the  first 
two  years  of  the  War  of 
Independence. 

The  Whiteboys  in  Ireland, 
1821-22 :  Daniel  O'Con- 
nell  as  advocate  in  a  trial ; 
then,  1837  to  the  Irish- 
American  period. 

W.  Africa,  1822  :  adventures 
of  a  British  midshipman 
on  sea  and  land.  Slavers, 
savages,  &c. 


386  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*ON  THE  IRRAWADDY. 
Juv. 


*THE  TIGER  OF  THE 
PAMPAS.    Juv. 

*THE     HONOUR     OF 
HENRI  DE  VALOIS 


DROMINA 


CAPTAIN  SWING.  Juv. 


*CHIPPINGE        (CHIP- 
PINGE  BOROUGH) 


A  NEST  OF  ROYAL- 
ISTS.   Juv. 


*!N  THE  BOYHOOD  OF 
LINCOLN.    Juv. 


*THE    PATIENCE    OF 
JOHN  MORLAND 


THE   LADY   OF   THE 
SPUR 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

David  M.  Beddoe 
(Dent  &  Co.) 


John  Ayscough 

(Arrowsmith,  Eng. ;  and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 


Harold  Avery 

(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Stanley  Weyman 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


Esme  Stuart 

(National  Society,  Eng.  ; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

Hezekiah  Butterworth 
(Appleton) 


Mary  Dillon 

(Eveleigh  Nash,  Eng. ; 
and  Doubleday, 
U.S.A.) 

David  Potter 
(Lippincott) 


India  and  Burmah,  1822—26  : 
Sir  Archibald  Campbell 
and  the  Burmese  War. 

Argentina  in  1829 :  the 
Gauchos 

Egypt :  Mehemet  Ali  and 
Ibrahim  Pasha,  from  1828 
(Syrian  campaign,  &c.). 

The  Dauphin  (son  of  Louis 
XVI.)  represented  as  a 
gypsy ;  S.  Ireland;  Italy, 
France,  Spain,  and  the 
West  Indies.  Begins  1820  ; 
then  1830. 

Agricultural  labourers  in  S. 
England  during  the  Machi- 
nery Riots  of  1830. 

England  in  the  Reform 
period  ;  the  Bristol  Riots, 
&c. 

France  (Blois)  in  1832  :    the 
Duchesse  de  Berri. 


Abraham  Lincoln  and  the 
early  settlers  of  Illinois 
(Indians,  &c.),  from  about 
1816  onwards.  "  A  true 
picture  in  a  framework  of 
fiction." 

American  political  life  about 
1830  :  Andrew  Jackson, 
Monroe,  Daniel  Webster, 
&c. 

South-west  New  Jersey  in  the 
1 820-30  period. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


387 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


A    KNIGHT   OF    THE 
WILDERNESS 


THE  RAVEN 


THE  DREAMER 


THE  LONE  STAR 


*!N  TEXAS  WITH  DAVY 
CROCKETT.     Jitv. 

"  VIVA    CHRISTINA." 
Juv. 

THE  BRITISH  LEGION. 
Juv. 

*WITH    THE    BRITISH 
LEGION.    Juv. 


ANTONIO 


IN     TREATY     WITH 
HONOR 


Oliver   Marble   Gale   and 

Harriet  Wheeler 
(Reilly  &  Britton,  Chi- 
cago) 

George  C.  Hazelton,  Jun. 
(Appleton) 


Mary  Newton  Stanard 
(Bell  Book  &  Stationery 
Company,  Richmond, 
U.S.A.) 

Eugene  P.  Lyle,  Jun. 
(Doubleday,  Page  &  Co.) 


Everett  McNeil 

(Chambers,  Eng.  ;    and 
Dutton,  U.S.A.) 

Edith  E.  Cowper 

(Chambers,  Eng.  ;    and 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


Ernest  J.  Oldmeadow 
(Grant  Richards,  Eng.  ; 
and     Century      Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Mary  Catherine  Crowley 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


America  (Middle  West)  in 
1831  :  settlers  and  Indians. 
Lincoln  and  Jefferson  Davis 
in  early  period. 

Edgar  Allan  Poe's  love  story. 
The  poet's  childhood  and 
youth  at  Richmond  ;  Uni- 
versity of  Virginia,  &c. 
Ends  with  his  death. 
Period  1811-49. 

A  romance  of  Edgar  Allan 
Poe. 


Sam  Houston  and  Bowie  in 
the  Thirties,  and  the  Re- 
volt against  Mexican  rule. 

Texas  War  of  Independence, 
1836. 


Spain,  and  the  Carlist  Rising 
of  1835. 


Spain,  1835-37  :  the  Carlist 
War. 

Spain,  1835-37  :  the  British 
Legion  under  Sir  George 
de  Lacey  in  the  Carlist 
War  (Queen  Christina,  &c.). 

A  Portuguese  monk  after 
the  suppression  of  the 
monasteries  in  Portugal, 
1834.  Semi-English,  early 
Victorian  atmosphere. 

Quebec,  and  French  Canada's 
struggle  for  independence, 
1837-38- 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


aRosE   AND   MINNIE. 
Juv. 

*CLEVELY  SAHIB.  Juv. 


IN  DEWISLAND 

ROSE  MERVYN.    Juv. 
*JOHN  GOODCHILD 

THROUGH  THE  SIKH 
WAR.    Juv. 

THE  PATH  TO  HONOUR 
*THE  LAST  HOPE 


THE  MANTLE  OF  THE 
EMPEROR 


BEYOND    MAN'S 
STRENGTH 


THE  SWORD  IN  THE 
AIR 


F.  Ward 

(Parker,  Oxford) 

Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


S.  Baring  Gould 
(Methuen) 

Anne  Beale 

(Griffith,  Farran) 

R.  W.  Wright-Henderson 
(J.  Murray) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


"  Sydney  C.  Grier  " 
(Blackwood) 

"  H.  S.  Merriman  " 

(Smith,    Elder,    Eng.  ; 
and  Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Ladbroke  Black  and  Ro- 
bert Lynd 
(F  Griffiths) 


M.  Hartley 
(Heinemann) 


A.  C.  Gunter 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ;  and 
Home  Publishing  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Canada  in  1837  :  time  of  the 
Rebellion. 

First  Afghan  War,  1838-42. 
Ends  with  the  massacre  of 
British  troops  in  the 
Khoord-Cabul  Pass. 

Pembrokeshire  at  the  time  of 
the  Rebecca  Riots,  1843. 

A  tale  of  the  Rebecca  Riots 
in  Wales. 

The  Railway  mania  of  1845. 


India,  1845-49  :  conquest  of 
the  Punjaub  in  the  two  Sikh 
Wars.  Hardinge,  Sir  Henry 
Lawrence,  &c. 

India  about  1850. 


Suffolk  in  1850  :  a  supposed 
son  of  the  Dauphin  (time 
of  Napoleon  III.). 

Louis  Napoleon  (afterwards 
Napoleon  III.)in  the  period 
1830-46.  Italy,  &c.,  end- 
ing with  the  escape  from 
the  fortress  of  Ham. 

Piedmontese  rising,  1821  ; 
then  the  rising  in  1848-49. 
Battle  of  Novara,  and 
Carlo  Alberto. 

Rising  of  the  Milanese  in 
1848. 


a  Published  both  separately  and  in  the  volume,  "  America  and  Our  Colonies  "  (Parker's  Tales 
Illustrating  Church  History). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


389 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*ADRIA  :    A  TALE  OF 
VENICE 

*DiE    VERTEIDIGUNG 
ROMS 

*THE  LAME  ENGLISH- 
MAN 


*THE  PATRIOT 


Alex.  Nelson  Hood 
(J.  Murray) 

Ricarda  Huch 
(Deutsche    Verlags  -  An 
shalt,  Stuttgart) 

Warwick  Deeping 
(Cassell) 


Antonio  Fogazzaro  (trans. 
(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


GIGI,  THE  HERO  OF    Felicia  B.  Clark 
SICILY.     Juv.  (Eaton  &  Mains,  U.S.  A.) 


«RED,    WHITE,    AND 
GREEN.    Juv. 


*  THESTRONGERWlNGS 


KEDAR  KROSS 


THE  MAN  OF  DESTINY 


THE  ISSUE 


Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


A.  Jeans 

(Elliot  Stock) 


J.  Van  der  Veer  Shurts 
(R.  G.  Badger,  Boston) 

T.  G.  Frost 

(Gramercy     Publishing 
Co.,  New  York) 


George  Morgan 
(Lippincott) 


The  Venetian  struggle  against 
Austria,  1848-49. 

Garibaldi  and  Mazzini,  1848- 
49  ;  an  "  imaginative  his- 
tory." 

Rome  in  1849 :  Mazzini, 
Garibaldi,  &c.,  and  the 
defence  of  the  City  against 
the  French. 

The  struggle  for  a  United 
Italy,  mid-Nineteenth  Cen- 
tury. 

Slight  tale  of  a  drummer-boy 
in  Italian  Liberation  days 
(Garibaldi). 

Hungarian  Revolution,  1848- 
49 ;  Vienna,  Pesth,  &c. 
Ends  with  the  crowning  of 
Francis  Joseph  as  King  of 
Hungary. 

Prince  Metternich  in  the 
second  quarter  of  the  Nine- 
teenth Century  :  Win- 
dischgratz  and  the  Hun- 
garians in  1848. 

America :  the  Adirondack 
country,  1837  and  later. 

General  U.  S.  Grant  (under 
a  fictitious  name)  ;  his 
youth  and  career  through 
the  Mexican  War  and  the 
Civil  War. 

America  (Slavery  in  Southern 
States).  Time  of  Clay, 
Webster,  Calhoun,  and 
Lincoln  ;  1831  to  the  Civil 
War. 


a  Mr.  Hayens  has  written  another  good  mid-Nineteenth  Century  tale,  dealing  with  Italy  and 
Garibaldi  in  1860,  "  One  of  the  Red  Shirts  "  (Nisbet). 


390  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*CONISTON 


50 — 40  OR  FIGHT 


Winston  Churchill 
(Macmillan) 


|  Emerson  Hough 

(Bobbs-Merrill  Co.) 


aFoR  THE  LIBERTY  OF  \ 
TEXAS.    Juv.  . ,  ,.J 

WITH  TAYLOR  ON  THE  \ 
Rio  GRANDE.  Juv.  I 

UNDER    SCOTT    IN  j 
MEXICO.    Juv.      ' 

THE  ELEVENTH  HOUR 


E.  Stratemeyer 
(Lothrop) 


David  Potter 

(Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.) 


THE  SPY  COMPANY    j  A.  C.  Gunter 

(Ward,      Lock, 


CARLOTA.    Juv. 


*FlGHTING  WITH  FRK- 
MONT.      JUV. 


CAPTAIN  COURTESY 


Eng. ; 

and  Home  Publishing 
Co.,  U.S.A.) 

Frances  Margaret  Fox 
(L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 


Everett  McNeil 

(E.  P.  Button  &  Co.) 


Political  and  Social  life  in  the 
States,  mid  -  Nineteenth 
Century  ;  the  period  be- 
tween the  Thirties  and  the 
Seventies. 

j  Washington,  Montreal,  &c., 
during  the  dispute  between 
America  and  England  over 
Oregon,  in  1844-46,  when 
Tyler  was  President.  In- 
troduces Tyler  and  various 
figures  of  the  period. 


j  A  series  of  tales  depicting  the 
Mexican  War  period. 


America  in  the  Forties  :  time 
of  General  Taylor  and  the 
Mexican  War. 

Mexican  War  of  1846. 


A  little  Spanish  girl  and  her 
friend  in  Los  Angeles 
(Mexican  War  time).  The 
San  Gabriel  Mission. 

Conquest  of  California,  1846  : 
John  Charles  Fremont,  the 
explorer. 


E.  Childs  Carpenter 
(G.  W.  Jacobs  &  Co.) 


California  in  the  Forties. 


a  These  three  volumes  constitute  the  Mexican  War  Series  (Lothrop). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


391 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  EMIGRANT  TRAIL 


THE  CITY  OF  Six 


THE     BOY     FORTY- 
NINERS.    Juv. 

INDIAN  AND  SCOUT. 
Juv. 


THE   SHADOW  OF   A 
GREAT  ROCK 

THE     COURAGE     OF 
CAPTAIN  PLUM 

<Z*UNDER    THE    LONE 
STAR.    Juv. 

*THE  COIL  OF  CARNE 


*TRUE  UNTO  DEATH. 
Juv. 


V.C. :  A  CHRONICLE 
OF  CASTLE  BAR- 
FIELD 


Geraldine  Bonner  !  Missouri  frontier  at  the  time 

(Hutchinson,  Eng.  ;  and  <      of  the  emigration  to  Cali- 
Duffield,  U.S.A.)  fornia  in  1848. 


C.  L.  Canfield 

(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 

Everett  McNeil 
(McClure  Co.) 


j  "  Placer    mining  "    in    Cali- 
fornia, 1849. 

California  on  the  first  dis- 
covery of  gold  in  1849. 


Captain  F.  S.  Brereton         The  gold  rush  in  California, 
(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and  i      mid-Nineteenth    Century 
Caldwell,  U.S.A.)  the     Redskins,     brigands, 

&c. 

W.  Rheem  Lighten  ;  Nebraska,  1854  :    the  Sioux, 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons)     !      &c. 


J.  Oliver  Curwood 
(Bobbs-Merrill  Co.) 

Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

John  Oxenham 
(Methuen  &  Co.) 


Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Partridge  &  Co.) 


D.  Christie  Murray 
(Chatto  &  Windus) 


I  Shores    of    Lake    Michigan, 
1856  (Mormons). 

S.  America,  1854-57 :  the 
Revolution  in  Nicaragua. 

N.W.  England  (Coast),  Lon- 
don, &c.,  mainly  in  the 
Forties  and  Fifties ;  also 
the  Crimea  during  the  War 
(Alma,  Balaclava,  Inker- 
man,  and  Sevastopol). 

Young  English  girl  in  Russia 
(St.  Petersburg  and  Mos- 
cow) in  the  period,  1851-55. 
Ends  in  the  Crimea  during 
the  War. 

England  and  the  Crimea, 
1854-56 ;  Sevastopol  and 
Scutari. 


a  I  have  specially  recommended  (vide  Preface  to  fourth  edition)  Mr.  Hayens'  tales  of  South 
America,  and  may  mention  here  that  he  has  written  a  capital  romance  of  the  Chilian  Revolution, 
1891,  "  The  President's  Scouts  "  (Collins).  My  list  ends  with  the  late  Seventies,  but  as  this  book — 
first  published  1904 — has  been  omitted  from  other  bibliographies  purporting  to  cover  the  entire 
Nineteenth  Century,  I  make  this  bare  allusion  to  it. 


393  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


IN    THE    TRENCHES. 
Juv. 

WITH    SWORD    AND 
PEN 

THE  YOUNG  RAJAH. 
Juv. 

*  BARCLAY     OF     THE 
GUIDES.    Juv. 


*  A  HERO  OF  LUCKNOW, 
Juv. 

*THE  WHITE  DOVE  OF 
AMRITZER.    Juv. 

LOVE  BESIEGED 


BRYDA.    Juv. 


*A  FIGHTER  IN  GREEN. 
Juv. 


aO     GORLANNAU     Y 
DEFAID 

*THE  SPANISH  JADE 


A    DIPLOMATIC    AD- 
VENTURE 


John  Finnemore 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

H.  C.  Irwin 
(Fisher  Unwin) 

W.  H.  G.  Kingston 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Herbert  Strang 
(H.Frowde,  and  Hodder ; 
and  Doran,  U.S.A.) 

Captain  F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie) 

Eliza  F.  Pollard 
(Partridge  &  Co.) 


Charles  E.  Pearce 

(Stanley  Paul,  Eng.;  and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Field 
(Wells  Gardner) 


Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Gvvyneth  Vaughan 
(D.  Nutt) 

Maurice  Hewlett 

(Cassell,    Eng.  ;     and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 

S.  Weir  Mitchell 
(Century  Co.) 


The  Crimean  War :    siege  of 
Sevastopol. 

N.  India,       1854-58 :        the 
Mutiny,  &c. 

Calcutta  during  the  Mutiny. 


The  Indian  Mutiny  :  siege  of 
Delhi. 


Cawnpore,  Lucknow,  and 
Delhi. 

Delhi  in  1857  :  the  Indian 
Mutiny.  General  John 
Nicholson. 

India  in  the  Mutiny  period  : 
siege  of  Lucknow  as  back- 
ground. 

An  English  girl's  adventures 
in  India  at  the  time  of  the 
Mutiny. 

A  young  Englishman  fighting 
for  the  French  in  Algeria, 
1857  ;  the  Kabyles. 

Religious  Revival  in  Wales, 
1859. 

Adventures  in  Spain,  1860. 


Paris  in  1862  :  supposed 
narrative  by  the  Secretary 
to  the  American  Legation. 


a  Written  in  the  original  Welsh.    My  descriptive  note  is,  in  this  case,  not  based  on  personal 
knowledge  !    Mr.  Harry  Farr,  of  Cardiff  Library,  is  my  authority. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


393 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 

SUBJECT. 

j 

(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


IN  THE  GRIP  OF  THE  j  Reginald  Horsley 
HAWK.     Juv.  (T.  C.  &  E.  C.  Jack) 


*MAORI  AND  SETTLER. 
Juv. 


UNDER  THE  STARS 


*THE  MISSOURIAN 


*A  VANISHED  NATION. 
Juv. 

DIANE 


BEFORE  THE  CRISIS 
JOHN  RIGDON 


*Two  GENTLEMEN  OF 
VIRGINIA 

DAREFORD 


1861  ;  then — a  year  or  two 
later — Poland  (Revolution) , 
Russia,  and  Siberia  ;  end- 
ing California  and  New 
York. 

New  Zealand  and  the  Maori 
War. 


G.  A.  Henty  New    Zealand    in    the    late 

(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and  i      Sixties  ;    second  period  of 
Scribner,  U.S.A.)  the  Maori  struggle.     The 

Massacre  of  Poverty  Bay. 


G.  Yolland 
(F.  V.  White) 

Eugene  P.  Lyle,  Jun. 
(Heinemann,  Eng.  ;  and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 

Herbert  Hayens 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 

Katharine  H.  Brown 
(Heinemann,  Eng. ;  and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 


F.  B.  Mott 
(J.  Lane) 

C.  P.  Plant 
(Sonnenschein) 


Jamaica  Outbreak,  1865. 


Mexico    and    the    Emperor 
Maximilian. 


Paraguay,  1866-68 :  Fran- 
cisco Lopez. 

A  French  Communal  settle- 
ment on  the  Mississippi, 
1856 ;  time  of  the  Aboli- 
tion struggle. 

Kansas  Border  in  the  days  of 
John  Brown. 

Kansas  and  the  Southern 
States,  1858—59  ;  time  of 
John  Brown  and  the  Aboli- 
tionists. 


G.  Gary  Eggleston  Virginia  in  1857  :    the  Slave 

(Lothrop.Lee  &  Shepard)       question. 


Herbert  E.  Bogue 
(C.  M.  Clark) 


|  Abraham  Lincoln,  &c.,  from 
1859  :   Civil  War  period. 


394  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  PATRIOTS  OF  THE 
SOUTH  (THE  PAT- 
RIOTS) 

RHODA  OF  THE 
UNDERGROUNDS 

*THE  WELDING 


LONG  BRIDGE  BOYS. 
Juv. 

MANASSAS 


*KINCAID'S  BATTERY 


THE   HONOR    OF    A 
LEE.    Juv. 

THE  STORM  CENTRE 


SERENA 


*AILSA  PAIGE 


Cyrus  T.  Brady 

(Cassell,     Eng. ;      and 
Dodd,  Mead,  U.S.A.) 

Florence  F.  Kelly 
(Gay  &  Hancock) 

Lafayette  McLaws 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


W.  O.  Stoddard 
(Lothrop) 

Upton  Sinclair 
(Macmillan) 


George  W.  Cable 

(Hodder,     Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Libbie  Miller  Travers 
(Cochrane     Publishing 
Co.) 

"  Charles    Egbert    Crad- 

dock  " 
(Macmillan) 

Virginia  Frazer  Boyle 
(A.  S.  Barnes  &  Co.) 


Robert  W.  Chambers 
(Appleton) 


General  Lee  and  his  Confede- 
rate Army. 


The  Slave  question  (America) 
just  before  the  Civil  War. 

American  politics  in  mid- 
Nineteenth  Century  :  the 
"  welding  "  of  North  and 
South.  Henry  Clay,  J.  C. 
Calhoun,  John  Brown, 
Jefferson  Davis,  Greeley, 
Lee,  and  Lincoln  (besides 
other  historic  figures). 

The  beginning  of  the  Ameri- 
can Civil  War. 

Beginning  of  American  Civil 
War:  the  first  Battle  of 
Manassas,  &c. 

New  Orleans  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Civil  War,  1861. 


Tennessee  in  the  Civil  War 
period :  General  Bragg. 

Tennessee  and  the  Civil  War. 


A  tale  of  the  South  before 
and  during  the  American 
Civil  War. 

A  New  York  character  study. 
Civil  War  time — the  Valley 
Campaign  and  General 
Philip  Stuart's  cavalry 
raid. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


395 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


aGENERAL    NELSON'S 
SCOUT.     Juv. 

*THE  SWORD  IN  THE 
MOUNTAINS 


*!N  OLD  BELLAIRE 


A  LINCOLN  CONSCRIPT 


*!N  CIRCLING  CAMPS 


WHERE     THE     RED 
VOLLEYS  POURED 


RUNNING  THE  GAUNT- 
LET 


ON  THE  OLD  KEAR- 
SAGE.    Juv. 


BLUE 
Juv. 


AND     GREY. 


Byron  A.  Dunn 

(A.  €.  McClurg  &  Co.) 

Alice  MacGowan 

(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 


Mary  Dillon 
(Century  Co.) 


Homer  Greene 

(Houghton,  Mifflin) 


J.  A.  Altsheler 
(Appleton) 


Chas.  W.  Dahlinger 
(G.  W.  Dillingham) 


Jessie  Peabody  Frothing- 

ham 
(Appleton) 


Cyrus  T.  Brady 
(Scribner) 


"  Harry  Collingwood 
(Cassell) 


A  Kentucky  lad  in  the  Civil 
War. 

Border  States  (Cumberland 
Mountain  region)  mainly 
in  period,  1861-65  :  Chat- 
tanooga and  the  Civil  War. 

Southern  Pennsylvania  just 
before  and  during  the  Civil 
War,  1860-63 :  Gettys- 
burg. 

Pennsylvania  in  the  time  of 
Abraham  Lincoln  and  the 
Civil  War  (Gettysburg). 

American  Civil  War  period, 
from  Lincoln's  election  up 
to  General  Lee's  surrender  : 
full  description  of  Gettys- 
burg, &c. 

A  German  exile  in  the  Ameri- 
can Civil  War :  Gettys- 
burg, 1863. 

American  Civil  War  period, 
1857  onwards  (based  on 
Lieut.  William  B.  Cush- 
ing's  life). 

Naval  adventures  in  Ameri- 
can Civil  War,  from  the 
sinking  of  the  Cumberland 
up  to  the  Alabama  and 
Kearsage  fight. 

American  Civil  War  from 
1861  :  the  sea-fight  between 
the  Alabama  and  the 
Kearsage. 


a  The  first  of  five  stories  forming  The  Young  Kentuckians  Series.  The  other  four  volumes  in 
the  series  are,  "  On  General  Thomas's  Staff  "  ;  "  Battling  for  Atlanta  "  ;  "  From  Atlanta  to  the  Sea  "  ; 
and  "  Raiding  with  Morgan."  The  chief  stages  of  the  war  are  depicted  in  these  stories. 


396  SUPPLEMENT; 

NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*TERRY'S  TRIALS  AND  j  J.  M.  Oxley 

TRIUMPHS.    Juv.          (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


A  LITTLE  TRAITOR  TO  I  Cyrus  T.  Brady 
THE  SOUTH  (Macmillan) 


TRAITOR  OR  LOYAL- 
IST ? 


aFoR  THE  STARS  AND 
STRIPES.    Juv. 


THE  YOUNG  BLOCK- 
ADERS.    Juv. 

THE  VICTORY 


Henry  K.  Webster 
(Macmillan) 


Everett  T.  Tomlinson 
(Lothrop) 


M.  E.  Seawell 
(Appleton) 


THE    LAST    OF    THE  ;  R.  Wallace  Buckley 
HOUGHTONS  (D.  C.  Neale) 


&THE  LONG  ROLL 


*THE    WARRENS 
VIRGINIA 


Mary  Johnston 

(Constable,  Eng.  ;  and 
Houghton,  Mifflin, 
U.S.A.) 

OF    G.  Gary  Eggleston 

(G.  W.  Dillingham) 


CLEBURNE  AND  His  ;  Irving  Ashby  Buck 
COMMAND  (D.  C.  Neale) 


COMRADES  FOUR 


E.  R.  Rich 
(D.  C.  Neale) 


American  Civil  War,  about 
1861-62 :  naval  engage- 
ments (the  Cumberland, 
&c.). 

Attempted  sinking  of  the 
Wabash  by  the  torpedo 
boat  David  (American 
Civil  War). 

North  Carolina,  &c.,  1861. 
The  Blockade  and  the 
Cotton  Traders. 

(1)  A   Union  soldier-lad  es- 
capes   from    a    Southern 
prison,  &c.     Based  on  fact. 

(2)  The  Blockading  Fleet  in 
the  American  Civil  War  : 
blockader  versus  blockade- 


Virginian  Plantation  life 
during  the  Civil  War. 

Virginian  father  and  son 
divided  in  the  Civil  War ; 
from  1860. 

Virginia,  1861 :  Stonewall 
Jackson,  &c. 


The  Civil  War  and  after. 


Battles  of  Shiloh,  Richmond, 
&c. ;  a  soldier  on  the 
Southern  side. 

Maryland  and  the  Civil  War. 


a  The  first  two  volumes  in  the  War  for  the  Union  Series. 

b  Appears    too  late  for  verification ;    my  brief  descriptive  note  is  based  on  the  publishers' 
announcement. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


397 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*CAPTAIN  PHIL.     Juv. 


DEFENDING          His 
FLAG.    Juv. 


THE  BATTLE  OF  NEW 
YORK.    Juv. 

THE  COUNTERPART 


THE  STUDENT  CAVA- 
LIERS.   Juv. 


A  DAUGHTER  OF  THE 
CONFEDERACY 


WAR  CHILDREN.  Juv. 


SPECIAL  MESSENGER 


THE  ROCK  OF  CHICA- 
MAUGA 


My    LADY    OF    THE 
SOUTH 


Martha  McCannon  Thomas 
(Henry  Holt  &  Co.) 


E.  Stratemeyer 
(Lothrop) 


W.  O.  Stoddard 
(Appleton) 

H.  Cotes 

(The    Macaulay    Co., 
New  York) 

Joshua  Rhodes  Forrest 
(R.  F.  Fenno) 


Phoebe  H.  Seabrook 
(D.  C.  Neale) 


J.  Tyler  Wheelwright 
(Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.) 


Robert  W.  Chambers 
(Werner  Laurie,  Eng.  ; 
and  Appleton,  U.S.A.) 

General  Charles  King 
(G.  W.  Dillingham) 


Randall  Parrish 

(Putnam,    Eng.  ;     and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 


A  youth's  adventures  during 
the  Civil  War ;  the  West- 
ern Army. 

American  Civil  War :  the 
earlier  period  beginning 
with  the  first  Battle  of 
Bull  Run.  Two  youths  in 
opposite  camps. 

The  scenes  in  New  York 
during  the  Civil  War 

Abraham  Lincoln,  McClellan, 
&c.,  in  the  Civil  War 
period. 

Southern  lads  in  College,  and 
in  the  Confederate  Army 
(American  Civil  War). 

Home  life  in  the  South 
during  the  American  Civil 
War. 

Two  lads  at  home  in  their 
soldier-father's  absence ; 
the  war  in  the  North. 

A  girl  volunteers  her  services 
as  a  "  special  messenger  " 
in  the  American  Civil  War. 

General  George  H.  Thomas. 
The  Battles  of  Chicka- 
mauga  (1862)  and  Nash- 
ville (1864). 

A  Federal  artilleryman's 
strange  marriage  with  a 
Southern  girl  during  the 
war.  Historic  incidents 
are  quite  in  the  back- 
ground. 


398  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH  CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*Mv    LADY    OF    THE 
NORTH 


CRAG-NEST 


WITH      GRANT      AT 

VlCKSBURG.      JtlV. 

*THE  HEART  OF  HOPE 


*A     LITTLE     UNION 
SCOUT 


A  DAUGHTER  OF  THE 
SOUTH 

SOUTHERN  BUDS  AND 
SONS  OF  WAR 

*THE  CARLYLES 


*THE  CLANSMAN 

*THE    LEOPARD'S 
SPOTS 

*THE  TRAITOR 


WITH  SULLY  INTO 
THE  Sioux  LAND. 
Juv. 

THE  IRON  WAY 


Randall  Parrish 

(Putnam,    Eng. ;     and 
McClurg,  U.S.A.) 


T.  Cooper  De  Leon 
(G.  W.  Dillingham) 

"  James  Otis  " 
(Burt,  U.S.A.) 

Norval  Richardson 
(Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.) 


Virginia,  1864-65.  Confede- 
rate captain's  adventures 
as  bearer  of  a  despatch 
from  General  Lee.  The 
Shenandoah  Valley  (Sheri- 
dan). 

General  Sheridan  in  the 
Shenandoah  Valley. 

The  Siege  of  Vicksburg, 
1863-64. 


American    Civil    War : 
Siege  of  Vicksburg. 


the 


Joel  Chandler  Harris  N.  Alabama  towards  the  end 

(Duckworth,  Eng.  ;  and  I      of  the  Civil  War  ;   General 
McClure,  U.S.A.)  Forrest. 


G.  Cary  Eggleston 
(Lothrop) 

W.  H.  Winslow 
(C.  M.  Clark) 

Constance  Cary  Harrison 
(Appleton) 


Thomas  Dixon,  Jun. 
(Heinemann,  Eng. ;  and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 


Joseph  Mills  Hanson 
(A.  C.  McClurg) 


Sarah  Pratt  Carr 
(A.  C.  McClurg) 


Lower  Mississippi  River  at 
the  end  of  the  Civil  War. 

S.  Carolina,  1864  (Southern 
standpoint). 

Richmond  (Virginia)  and 
neighbourhood  in  1865, 
just  before  the  surrender  of 
General  Lee. 

A  trilogy  dealing  with  the 
Reconstruction  Period  in 
the  Southern  States,  from 
the  time  of  Lincoln's  assas- 
sination in  1865  down  to 
the  dissolution  of  the  Ku 
Klux  Klan  in  1870. 

The  Dakota  Indians  in  1864  : 
General  Sully. 


California  in  1867,  when  the 
Central  Pacific  Railway 
was  being  completed. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


399 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


SHIBUSAWA 


THE    FLOWER    OF 
DESTINY 

ELEANOR  DAYTON 


BLACK  FRIDAY 


THE  DRUMS  OF  WAR 


THE  IRON  GAME 


A  LINDSAY'S  LOVE 


THE  WISDOM  OF  THE 
SERPENT 


JOSEPHINE'S     TROU- 
BLES 


*LE  DRAPEAU  Ou  LA 
Foi  ? 


T.  William  Adams 
(G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons) 

Wm.  Dana  Orcutt 
(A.  C.  McClurg) 

N.  Stephenson 
(J.  Lane) 


Frederic  S.  Isham 
(Bobbs-Merrill  Co.) 


H.  de  Vere  Stacpoole 
(J.  Murray,  Eng.  ;   and 
Duffield,  U.S.A.) 


Frances  Marsh 
(Fifield) 


Charles  Lowe 
(Werner  Laurie) 

Constantine  Ralli 
(F.  Griffiths) 


Percy  H.  Fitzgerald 
(Burns  &  Gates) 


A.  Aderer 

(Calmann  Levy,  Paris) 


Japan  about  1867  :  the  fall 
of  the  Shogeon. 

Napoleon  III.  and  the  Em- 
press Eugenie. 

Ohio  district  and  Cincinnati 
in  the  Fifties  ;  Paris  under 
Napoleon  III.  ;  the  Ameri- 
can Civil  War  ;  and,  lastly, 
a  glimpse  of  Napoleon  III. 
at  Chiselhurst  in  1872. 

New  York  after  the  Civil 
War  :  the  Corner  in  Gold. 
Also  Paris  and  the  Com- 
mune. 

Germany  and  France,  1860- 
70  :  Bismarck  and  Napo- 
leon III.  Ends  with  the 
scenes  in  Paris  on  war 
being  declared. 

France  v.  Germany  in  the 
period  1860-79  (Franco- 
German  War,  &c.). 

The  Court  of  Napoleon  III., 
and  the  Siege  of  Paris. 

Begins  Harrow  in  the  Forties, 
but  chiefly  concerned  with 
the  Franco-German  War  in 
1870,  up  to  Metz. 

Versailles  just  before  and 
during  the  war,  1870-71  : 
the  German  occupation. 


Versailles  during  the  German 
occupation  (Franco-Ger- 
man War). 


400  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  BELFRY  OF  ST. 
JUDE.    Juv. 


A   GREAT   MISTAKE. 
Juv. 

"THE    FRENCH    PRI- 
SONERS.   Juv. 


THE  YOUNG  FRANC- 
TIREURS.    Juv. 


BY     FIRE. 


Juv. 


*JORN  UHL 


*THE     THREE     COM- 
RADES 


A  HERO  OF  SEDAN. 
Juv. 


*  GREAT  HEART  GIL- 
LIAN 


A  BID  FOR  LOYALTY 


Esme  Stuart 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng.  ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


T.  S.  Millington 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 

E.  Bertz  (trans.) 
(Macmillan) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(H.Frowde;  and  Hodder) 


E.  Everett  Green 
(T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


Gustav  Frenssen  (trans.) 
(Constable,  Eng.  ;    and 
Estes,  U.S.A.) 

Gustav  Frenssen  (trans.) 
(Constable,  Eng.  ;    and 
Estes,  U.S.A.) 

Captain  F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie,     Eng.  ;      and 
Caldwell,  U.S.A.) 

John  Oxenham 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


J.  Blyth 

(Ward,  Lock  &  Co.) 


French  country  town  before 
and  during  the  Franco- 
German  War.  A  fugitive 
during  the  Prussian  occu- 
pation, 1870-71. 

English  boys  in  Paris,  1870- 
71  :  the  Siege,  &c. 

A  tale  of  German  schoolboys 
and  French  prisoners, 
during  the  Franco-German 
War. 

Franco-German  War :  the 
Franctireurs  in  the  Vosges 
district,  &c.  Ends  with 
the  fighting  round  Orleans. 
General  Chanzy. 

The  Battle  of  Gravelotte,  and 
the  Siege  of  Metz  (Franco- 
German  War). 

Franco-German  War  period  : 
the  Battle  of  Gravelotte. 


Coast  of  Schleswig  Holstein 
just  after  Gravelotte,  and 
during  Metz,  &c. 

Battle  of  Sedan,  and  the 
Siege  of  Paris,  1870-71. 


Coast  of  Brittany,  Paris,  &c., 
during  the  Franco-German 
War  ;  Napoleon  III.  after 
Sedan. 

Bazaine  at  Metz  (somewhat 
anti-German  in  tendency) . 


a  Sequel  to  "  The  Castle  of  the  White  Flag  "  (see  p.  114). 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


401 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  ATTACK  ON  THE 
MILL  (L'ATTAQUE 
Du  MOULIN) 

THE    MEN    OF    THE 
MOUNTAIN 


*THE     DREAM    OF 
PEACE 


MARIAGE  D'  AG- 


NES 


Emile  Zola  (trans.) 

(Heinemann,  Eng. ;  and 
Stokes,  U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(Religious  Tract  Society, 
Eng.  ;  and  Harper, 
U.S.A.) 

F.  Gribble 

(Chapman  &  Hall) 


Jules  Claretie 

(Eugene   Fasquelle, 
Paris) 


*PARIS  AT  BAY.    Juv.  I  Herbert  Hayens 
(Blackie) 


THE     TYRANNY 
HONOUR 


Constantine  Ralli 
(Chapman  &  Hall) 


The  Prussians  in   Lorraine, 
1870. 


The    Franco-Swiss    frontier, 
1871. 


General  Bourbaki's  Retreat 
to  Switzerland  (end  of 
Franco-German  War)  ,1871. 

The  Siege  of  Paris. 


Battle  of  Sedan ;  Siege  of 
Paris  ;  and  The  Commune, 
1870-71. 

Sedan,  and  the  Germans  in 
Paris,  1870-71  ;  then, 
London  and  Cornwall — a 
mystery  case. 


&!N    TIME    OF    WAR.    James  F.  Cobb  |  Brittany  and  Paris,  1870-71; 

Juv.  (H.Frowde;  andHodder)!      the  Siege  and  Commune. 


*THE     AMERICAN 
PARIS 


IN  i  E.  Coleman  Savidge 
(Lippincott) 


HOSTAGE  FOR  A  KING-  F.  B.  Forester 

DOM.     Juv.  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons) 


CACHE  LA  POUDRE 


i  Herbert  Myrick 

(Kegan  Paul,  Eng.  ;  and 
Orange  Judd  Co., 
U.S.A.) 


Paris  in  the  Franco-German 
War  period :  the  Siege, 
and  Commune. 

English  lad's  adventures  in 
Spain  at  the  time  of  the 
Carlist  War  of  1872-76. 

N.  Colorado,  Wyoming,  and 
Montana  in  the  Seventies  : 
time  of  General  Custer. 


a  Has  been  translated  into  English,  but  very  inadequately. 

6  An  interesting  tale  originally  published  under  the  title  "  Workman  and  Soldier  "  (Griffith  & 
Farran). 

2    D 


402  SUPPLEMENT. 

NINETEENTH    CENTURY— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE   HORSEMEN   OF 
THE  PLAINS.    Juv. 


*THE    LAST    OF    THE 
CHIEFS.    Juv. 


WINDING     WATERS. 
Juv. 


BOB    HAMPTON    OF 
PLACER.    Juv. 


*THE   WATCHERS    OF 
THE  PLAINS 


THE  SPIRIT  TRAIL 


THE  PIONEER 


By    SHEER    PLUCK. 
Juv. 


•WITH   WOLSELEY   TO 
KUMASI.      JUV. 


J.  A.  Altsheler 
(Macmillan) 


J.  A.  Altsheler 
(Appleton) 


Frances  Parker 
(C.  M.  Clark) 


Randall  Parrish 
(A.  C.  McClurg) 


Ridgwell  Cullum 

(Chapman  &  Hall,  Eng.; 
and  Jacobs,  U.S.A.) 

Kate  and  Virgil  D.  Boyles 
(A.  C.  McClurg) 


Geraldine  Bonner 
(Bobbs-Merrill) 

G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


Captain  F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie) 


Rocky  Mountains  in  the 
late  Sixties:  Cheyenne  War 
and  General  Custer  (Battle 
of  the  Washita). 

Montana,  &c. ;  the  Sioux 
Indians  and  General 
Custer. 

A  tale  of  the  Indians  in  the 
West  (America),  and  Gene- 
ral Custer. 

The  destruction  of  Custer  and 
his  men  by  the  Sioux  in 
1876. 

Indian  Rising  in  the  Seven- 
ties ;  Dakota  and  S.  Ne- 
braska. 


Dakota  in  the  Seventies  ;  the 
Indians. 


Nevada  and  California  in  the 
Seventies. 

A  youth's  English  upbring- 
ing ;  his  adventures  in 
Central  Africa  ;  and — 
second  half  of  tale — his 
part  in  the  Ashanti  War 
(Wolseley)  up  to  the  cap- 
ture of  Coomassie  in  1874. 

The  first  Ashanti  War.  A 
young  Englishman,  ap- 
pointed manager  of  a  gold 
mine  near  Kumasi,  escapes 
and  falls  in  with  the  British 
expedition  under  Wolseley; 
capture  of  Kumasi,  1874. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
NINETEENTH   CENTURY— continued. 


403 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


WITH    SHIELD    AND 
ASSEGAI.    Juv. 


FOR  NAME  AND  FAME. 
Juv. 


Captain  F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie) 


G.  A.  Henty 

(Blackie,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 


WITH    ROBERTS    TO 
CANDAHAR.    Juv, 


INA  (in  "  The  Little 
Blue  Lady,"  &c.). 
Juv. 

*  UNDER  THE  CHILIAN 
FLAG.     Juv. 


Captain  F.  S.  Brereton 
(Blackie) 


Mrs.  E.  Harcourt  Mitchell 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 

and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

"  Harry  Collingwood  " 
(Blackie) 


Zululand  (Cetewayo)  in  the 
Seventies,  and  the  War  in 
1879  ;  Isandula,  Rorke's 
Drift,  and  Ulundi.  Lord 
Chelmsford,  &c. 

Begins  England  and  the 
Eastern  Seas  (Malays)  ; 
but  chiefly  Afghanistan, 
1878-80.  British  army  in 
the  Khyber  Pass,  &c.  ; 
later,  the  advance  on 
Cabul ;  and  the  famous 
march  to  Candahar  (Gene- 
ral Roberts). 

The  Third  Afghan  War,  1880: 
the  Siege  of  Cabul,  and  the 
Relief  of  Candahar.  „. 

St.  Petersburg  at  the  time  of 
the  Russo-Turkish  War 
(late  Seventies). 

War  between  Chili  and  Peru 
1879-81  :  Battle  of  Anga- 
mos,  and  Bombardment  of 
Callao. 


NOTE. — I  have  extended  my  lists  so  as  to  include  the  late  Seventies.  As 
already  implied  (vide  p.  115),  an  interval  of  thirty  years  between  events  and  their 
narration  is  about  the  time  needed,  in  my  opinion,  for  genuine  historical  per- 
spective. 


SEMI-HISTORICAL   NOVELS   AND   TALES. 


"  Many  corresponding  circumstances  are  detected  by  readers, 
of  which  the  author  did  not  suspect  the  existence.  He  must, 
however,  regard  it  as  a  great  compliment,  that  in  detailing 
incidents  purely  imaginary,  he  has  been  so  fortunate  in 
approximating  reality,  as  to  remind  his  readers  of  actual 
occurrences." 

Sir  Walter  Scott  in  his  '•''Additional  Note  to 
'  Guy  Manner 'ing •.'" 


SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES 

besides  those  given  on  pp.  119-127. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


a*THE  MASTER  GIRL 


*THE  STORY 
Juv. 


OF  AB. 


*CHILDREN    OF    THE 
CLIFF.    Juv. 


*LODRIX,  THE  LITTLE 
LAKE  DWELLER. 
Juv. 


THE  IRON  STAR.  Juv. 


DAYS    BEFORE 

TORY.      JUV. 


His- 


"  Ashton  Hilliers  " 

(Methuen,  Eng.  ;  and 
Putnam,  U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Waterloo 

(A.  &  C.  Black,  Eng. ; 
and  Doubleday, 
U.S.A.) 

Belle  Wiley  and  Grace  W. 

Edick 
(Appleton) 


Belle  Wiley  and  Grace  W. 

Edick 
(Appleton) 


John  P.  True 

(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


H.  R.  Hall 

(Harrap,     Eng. ;      and 
Crowell,  U.S.A.) 


Primitive  man  and  woman  in 
the  Stone  Age. 


A  vivid  tale  of  the  Stone  Age 
and  the  Cave-men. 


The  primitive  Cliff-people. 
A  charmingly  illustrated 
tale  for  quite  young  chil- 
dren. 

A  little  boy's  adventures  in 
the  time  of  the  Lake- 
dwellers.  Like  the  pre- 
vious short  tale,  this  one  is 
well  illustrated. 

What  a  meteor  "  saw  in  its 
journey  through  the  ages," 
from  its  fall  in  the  Cave- 
dwellers'  period  to  the 
time  of  the  Pilgrim  Fathers. 
Semi-fictional  history  (Vi- 
kings, English,  &c.). 

An  excellent  little  semi-fic- 
tional story-book  for  chil- 
dren, telling  of  a  boy's  life 
among  the  primitive  in- 
habitants of  Britain. 


a  Strictly  speaking,  of  course,  a  novel  of  this  kind  is  not  even  "  semi "  historical :  the  people 
whom  Mr.  Hilliers  has,  with  such  power  of  imagination,  tried  to  reproduce  for  us,  lived  in  the  far-off 
unrecorded  periods  of  our  planet.  At  the  same  time  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that,  through  the  study 
of  Science,  we  are  able  to  trace,  if  not  the  detailed  history  of  bygone  races,  at  least  the  general  outline 
of  their  manner  of  living  :  hence  it  may  be  said  that  even  romances  dealing  with  Primitive  Life,  are 
based — as  regards  their  framework — on  certain  bygone  facts  which  Nature  has  recorded  for  us. 


408  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  HALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  CAR  OF  PHCEBUS 


STAR 


•THAI'S 


*SiR  MARROK.    Juv. 


*THE  CLUTCH  OF  CIR- 
CUMSTANCE 


*A    LADY    OF    KING 
ARTHUR'S  COURT 


HAROLD    THE    BOY- 
EARL.    Juv. 

•ERIC  BRIGHTEYES 


HILDA  BRAVE-HEART 
(in  "  The  Whisper- 
ing Winds  ").  Juv. 

THE  Cm  CAMPEADOR 


Robert  James  Lees 
(W.  Rider  &  Son) 

H.  Rider  Haggard 

(Cassell,     Eng.  ;      and 
Longmans,  U.S.A.) 

"  Anatole  France  "  (trans.) 
(J.  Lane  ;  and  Greening) 


Allen  French 
(Century  Co.) 


Dorothy  Senior 

(A.  &  C.  Black.  Eng.  ; 
andMacmillan.U.S.A.; 


Sara  Hawks  Sterling 
(Chatto,     Eng.  ;      and 
Jacobs.  U.S.A.) 


J.  F.  Hodgetts 

(Religious  Tract  Society 


H.  Rider  Haggard 
(Longmans) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(Blackie) 


D.    Antonio    De    Trueba 

(trans.) 
(Longmans) 


The  Aryan  nomadic  tribes  in 
Central  Asia. 

Ancient   Egypt :     the   Mys- 
teries. 


The  early  Christians  of 
Thebes ;  a  psychological 
study,  from  the  standpoint 
of  a  modern  sceptic. 

Forest  of  Bedegraine  (Sher- 
wood) in  the  time  of  King 
Uther  ;  then  in  the  time  of 
King  Arthur. 

Britain  in  the  time  of  King 
Arthur  and  the  Round 
Table :  Cormac  King  of 
Leinster,  &c.  An  adap- 
tion of  Malory. 

Love  story  of  "  Anguish 
Prince  of  Ireland  "  and  a 
waiting-woman  of  Queen 
Guenever. 

Briton  and  Saxon,  about  the 
middle  of  the  Sixth  Cen- 
tury (Wales,  &c.). 

Iceland  and  the  Norsemen 
between  A.D.  900  and  A.D. 
noo. 

A  very  slight  but  charming 
tale  (semi-fairy)  of  early 
Norse  life. 

The  "  Cid,"  late  Eleventh 
Century :  Spanish  tradi- 
tionary hero. 


a  Some  may  demur  to  my  inclusion  of  this  novel,  deeming  it  pseudo-historical :  this  term  may,  I 
think,  with  more  justice,  be  applied  to  another  Egyptian  story,  viz.  Baroness  Orczy's  "  By  the  Gods 
Beloved  "  ("  The  Gates  of  Kamt,"  in  U.S.A.).  The  idea  of  a  resuscitated  race  as  the  foundation  for  a 
romance  is  neither  original  nor  satisfactory. 


SUPPLEMENT.  409 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK.  AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


EARL   OSRIC'S    MIN- 
STREL.    Juv. 


A.  Mary  R.  Dobson 

(Religious  Tract  Society) 


ENGEL  THE  FEARLESS.  Mrs.  E.  Harcourt  Mitchell 
Juv.  I      (Christian     Knowledge 

Society,    Eng.  ;     and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 


THE  SEVEN  STREAMS 


LOVE     AMONG    THE 
RUINS 

*THE  KING'S  FOOL 


A  LITTLE  SHEPHERD 
OF  PROVENCE.  Juv. 


PRIXCE  MADOG 


BLACK  MAGIC 


*THE  MERRY  ADVEN- 
TURES OF  ROBIN 
HOOD.  Juv. 


ROBIN   HOOD  : 
BOOK.    Juv, 


His 


Warwick  Deeping 

(Eveleigh  Nash,  Eng. ; 
and  Fenno,  U.S.A.) 

Warwick  Deeping 
(Cassell) 

M.  Barrington 
(Blackwood) 

Evaleen  Stein 

(L.    C.    Page    &    Co., 
U.S.A.) 

Joan  Dane 
(Elliot  Stock) 


Marjorie  Bowen  " 
(Alston  Rivers) 


Howard  Pyle 

(Newnes,    Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Eva  March  Tappan 
(Little,  Brown  &  Co.) 


A  tale  of  late  Saxon  England. 


Child  life  in  mediaeval  Eng- 
land. 


Mediaeval  life  :  the  Saracens, 
&c.  Vague  time  and  place 
allusions. 

England  in  early  mediaeval 
days. 

A  decidedly  moving  story  of 
Troubadour  days. 

Tells  of  a  crippled  lad  in 
Mediaeval  Provence. 


N.  Wales  (Carnarvon)  mid  to 
late  Twelfth  Century : 
Madog's  discovery  of 
America.  Ends  Columbus 
and  the  Spain  of  Ferdinand 
V. 

A  somewhat  indefinite  story 
of  mediaeval  magic  and 
witchcraft. 

Mediaeval  Nottinghamshire : 
an  excellent  adaptation  of 
the  Robin  Hood  legends. 

Another  good  adaptation  of 
the  old  legends  concerning 
Robin  Hood  and  his  Merry 
Men. 


BUONDELMONTE'S 
SAGA  (in  "  Fond 
Adventures  ") 


Maurice  Hewlett  Italy  (Florence)  in  the  pre- 

(Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and        Dante  period. 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 


410  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


cA   MEDIAEVAL   GAR- 
LAND 

DECLINED     WITH 
THANKS 


THE  CROWNING  HOUR 


FORTUNE 


*GOLDEN  HAWK 


LAZY  RUDOLPH  (in 
"  The  Little  Blue 
Lady,"  &c.).  Juv. 

*THE    SWORDMAKER 


*SPRINGTIME  (UNDER 
CASTLE  WALLS) 


THE  LOVE  CHASE  (in 
"  Fond  Adven- 
tures ") 

WARRIORS  OF  OLD 
JAPAN,  AND  OTHER 
STORIES 


Madame  James  Darmeste- 

ter 
(Lawrence  &  Bullen) 

Una  L.  Silberrad 
(Constable  &  Co.) 


Rupert  Lance 
(Blackwood) 

J.  C.  Snaith 

(Nelson,     Eng. ;      and 
Moffat,  U.S.A.) 

Edith  Rickert 

(Arnold,     Eng. ;      and 
Baker,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  E.  Harcourt  Mitchell 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 

and  Whittaker^U.S.A.) 

Robert  Barr 

(Mills  &Boon,  Eng.;  and 
F.  A.  Stokes,  U.S.A.) 

H.  C.  Bailey 

(Murray,     Eng.  ;      and 
Appleton,  U.S.A.) 

Maurice  Hewlett 

(Macmillan,  Eng.  ;   and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Yei  Theodora  Ozaki 
(Constable,  Eng.  ;    and 
Houghton,       Mifflin, 
U.S.A.) 


Life  in  Italy  and  France,  from 
the  late  Thirteenth  Cen- 
tury to  the  late  Sixteenth. 

Eight  psychologic  tales  (three 
of  some  length)  ranging 
from  1260-1775.  England 
— East  Country,  Wiltshire, 
&c. — furnishes  the  back- 
ground almost  throughout. 

Mediaeval  Italy 


An  English  Soldier  of  Fortune 
in  mediaeval  Spain  and 
France. 

Fourteenth  Century  Pro- 
vence :  time  of  the  Popes 
at  Avignon. 

Germany  in  the  Fourteenth 
Century. 


Frankfort  and  the  Robber 
Barons  of  the  Rhine  in  late 
Fourteenth  Century. 

Lombardy  in  the  Early  Re- 
naissance period. 


Italy  (Mantua)  in  the  time  of 
the  Sforzas. 


Stories  of  Mediaeval  Japan, 
containing  an  element  of 
history  as  well  as  myth. 
They  cover  a  wide  period, 
from  legendary  days  up  to 
a  more  or  less  recent  time. 


a  A  volume  of  short  but  illuminating  tales,  having  as  background  the  life  of  such  cities  as  Assisi 
(1290),  Cherbourg  (1429),  Chalons  (1446),  Milan  (1496),  Metz  (1518),  and  Ferrara  (1535  and  1595). 
The  stories  appeared  originally  in  French,  1892. 


SUPPLEMENT.  411 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


TALES  OF  OLD  JAPAN 


BROTHERS  OF  PERIL 


*THE  GREY  MAN 


WILL  OF  THE  DALES. 

Juv. 

THE  JEWEL  OF  YNYS 
GALON 

THE  O'FLYNN 


*SAMPSON     RIDEOUT, 
QUAKER 


LOST  ENDEAVOUR 

Yo-Ho !  FOR  THE 
SPANISH  MAIN. 
Juv. 

SIR  ROGER'S  HEIR 
*THE  FOOL  ERRANT 


Algernon   Bertram    Free- 
man-Mi tford 
(Macmillan) 


Theodore  Roberts 

(Nash,  Eng.  ;  and  Page, 
U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(Unwin,     Eng. ;      and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 


R.  Stead 
(Blackie) 

"  Owen  Rhoscomyl  " 
(Longmans) 

Justin  H.  McCarthy 
(Hurst  &  Blackett.Eng. 
and  Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Una  L.  Silberrad 
(Nelson) 


John  Masefield 
(Nelson) 


S.  Walkey 
(Cassell) 


F.  Frankfort  Moore 
(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 

Maurice  Hewlett 
(Heinemann) 


Semi-historical  pictures  of 
bygone  life,  dealing  with 
the  Japan  of  more  than  a 
thousand  years  ago,  as  well 
as  with  that  country  in 
much  later  centuries. 

Newfoundland  (the  Beothics) 
in  mid-Sixteenth  Century. 


An  Ayrshire  feud  at  the  end 
of  the  Sixteenth  Century  ; 
based  on  the  records  of  an 
actual  tragedy. 

Derbyshire  in  Elizabeth — 
James  I.  period. 

Welsh  pirates  about  the  time 
of  James  II. 

An  Irish  Soldier  of  Fortune 
in  1689. 


South-west  England  (Salis- 
bury, Shaftesbury,  &c.) 
rather  more  than  two 
hundred  years  ago. 

An  English  schoolmaster  and 
schoolboy  are  kidnapped 
(1692)  and  sold  into  slavery 
— Jamaica,  Virginia,  &c. 

An  adventure  story  of  the 
Spanish  Main,  c.  1700 : 
pirates,  treasure-galleon,  &c. 

English  country  life  in  the 
time  of  Queen  Anne. 

An  Englishman  in  Padua, 
early  Eighteenth  Century. 
Italian  manners. 


412  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


THE  SIGN  OF  THE 
QUEEN  PEDAUQUE 


"JACOB  AND  JOHN 


THE  PORTRAIT 


GABRIELLE     TRANS- 
GRESSOR 

A  CAVALIER  OF  VIR- 
GINIA 


THE  O'RUDDY 

*SOPHIA 

*STARBRACE 

*OiL  OF  SPIKENARD 

*THE  LADY  OF  LYNN 
No  OTHER  WAY 


Anatole  France  "  (trans. 
(J.  Lane  ;  and  Gibbings) 


Walter  Raymond 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 


Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
(Methuen) 


Harris  Dickson 
(Lippincott) 

Theodore  Roberts 
(L.  C.  Page  &  Co.) 


Stephen  Crane  and  Robert 

Barr 

(Methuen,    Eng.  ;     and 
Stokes,  U.S.A.) 

Stanley  Weyman 
(Longmans) 

Sheila  Kaye-Smith 
(Geo.  Bell  &  Sons) 

E.  M.  Smith-Dampicr 
(A.  Melrose) 


Walter  Besant 
(Chatto  & 


Walter  Besant 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 


French  life  and  manners  in 
the  first  half  of  the  Eight- 
eenth Century. 

Somersetshire  village  life  in 
the  first  quarter  of  the 
Eighteenth  Century. 

Fashionable  life  (London  and 
Kent)  in  the  time  of  Sir 
Robert  Walpole  and  the 
Methodists. 

New  Orleans  in  the  first  half 
of  the  Eighteenth  Century. 

An  adventure  story  of  Vir- 
ginia and  the  Sea,  in 
Georgian  days. 

An  Irishman's  adventures  in 
Eighteenth  Century  Eng- 
land :  Bristol,  London, 
Rye,  &c. 

Social  life  and  adventure, 
1742  :  London  and  Sussex. 

Sussex  (Rye  district)  about 
the  1740-50  period. 

Norfolk  and  London,  1752- 
53,  and  1756  :  a  character 
sketch. 

King's  Lynn,  Norfolk,  about 
1750  :  the  manners  and 
life  of  the  time. 

The  London  of  1750-53 : 
King's  Bench  Prison, 
Newgate,  St.  James's 
Square,  Vauxhall,  &c. 


a  A  critical  study  rather  than  romance  proper:  the  author  sketches,  with  keen  satire,  the  life  of 
an  unprincipled  Eighteenth  Century  Abbe. 


SUPPLEMENT.  413 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


FRENCH  NAN 


THE  TAMING  OF  THE 
BRUTE 

BESS  OF  THE  WOODS 


PENELOPE      BRAND- 
LING 


THE  FRONTIERSMEN 


DEAN'S  HALL 


BACK  o'  THE  MOON 


*THE        COPLESTONE 
COUSINS.    Juv. 


ROGER  TREWINION 


CAROLINE 


Agnes  and  Egerton  Castle 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 


"  Frances  Harrod 
(Methuen) 

Warwick  Deeping 
(Harper) 


"  Vernon  Lee  " 
(Fisher  Umvin) 


"Charles  Egbert  Craddock' 
(Houghton,    Mifflin    & 
Co.) 

Maude  Goldring 
(J.  Murray) 


"  Oliver  Onions  " 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Mrs.  Henry  Clarke 

(Christian  Knowledge 
Society,  Eng. ;  and 
Gorham,  U.S.A.) 

Joseph  Hocking 
(Ward,  Lock  &  Co.) 

Clementina  Black 
(J.  Murray) 


A  Versailles  Court  Beauty 
married  to  an  English 
Squire,  mid  -  Eighteenth 
Century. 

A  young  Welsh  Squire  in 
mid-Eighteenth  Century. 

English  country  life  (squire, 
&c.)  in  mid-Eighteenth 
Century. 

Imaginary  diary  of  a  young 
French  lady  married  to  a 
Welsh  Baronet ;  her  ex- 
periences on  the  Welsh 
Coast,  1772-73.  Edited  in 
Switzerland  fifty  years 
later. 

Early  North  American  pion- 
eers in  the  part  that  is 
now  Tennessee. 

Yorkshire  in  the  second  half 
of  the  Eighteenth  Century : 
the  Quakers. 

Late  Eighteenth  Century  life 
in  the  West  Riding  of  York- 
shire :  weavers,  coiners, 
&c. 


Dartmoor  district  in   1779 
the  press-gang. 


Cornwall  (Truro  district)   in 
late  Eighteenth  Century. 

Life  in   Sussex,    1783    (Pro- 
logue, 1774). 


414  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*Miss  CAROLINE 


THE  ROMANTIC  ROAD 


MY  LADY  NAN 


*THE  WATCHERS  ON 
THE  LONG  SHIPS. 
Juv. 


THE  ORANGERY 
*THE  LOST  LAND 

THE  CHOSEN 


"  Theo.  Douglas 
(E.  Arnold) 


Guy  Rawlence 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


Bessie  Dill 

(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


James  F.  Cobb 
(Wells  Gardner) 


Mabel  Dearmer 

(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.) 

Julia  M.  Crottie 
(Fisher  Unwin) 


J.  T.  Findlay 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton 


DISE 


A  TURNPIKE  LADY      Sarah  N.  Cleghorn 

(Henry  Holt  &  Co.) 

THE  KEY  OF  PARA-    Sidney  Pickering 

(Arnold,     Eng.  ;      and 
Macmillan,  U.S.A.) 

Sheila  Kaye-Smith 
(Geo.  Bell  &  Sons) 

Maria  Edgeworth 
(Wells  Gardner) 


*THE  TRAMPING 
METHODIST 

aWASTE  NOT,  WANT 
NOT  (in  "  For  - 
gotten  Tales  of 
Long  Ago").  Juv. 


Life  and  manners  in  the 
Georgian  period  :  Worces- 
tershire and  London. 

Salisbury  and  Fordingbridge 
district  in  Georgian  days  : 
young  lady  as  "  highway- 
man." 

Gloucestershire,  Dieppe, 
Bath,  &c.  ;  late  Eighteenth 
Century  manners. 

Life  in  the  Land's  End  dis- 
trict in  the  last  decade  of 
the  Eighteenth  Century  : 
Coast  and  Lighthouse 
scenes. 

Hertfordshire  (High  Life), 
1796. 

An  imaginary  autobiography, 
depicting  an  Irish  town 
(Munster),  1780-97. 

A  tale  of  Love  and  Religion 
in  an  Aberdeenshire  village, 
1796. 

American  village  life  (Ver- 
mont), 1768-96. 

Rome  and  Italy  in  1797. 


Kent  and  Sussex  about  1799. 


Family  life  in  the  Bristol  dis- 
trict over  a  hundred  years 
ago. 


a  Originally  published  in  Miss  Edgeworth's  The  Parent's  Assistant. 
alume  of  "  Forgotten  Tales,"  &c.,  gives  the  story  in  charming  company. 


Mr.  E.  V.  Lucas'  excellent 


SUPPLEMENT.  415 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  LIFE  AND  AD- 
VENTURES OF  LADY 
ANNE    (in    ' '  For- 
gotten   Tales     of 
Long  Ago  ").  Juv. 

*THE  YOUNG  TRAIL- 
ERS.    Juv. 

*THE  FOREST  RUN- 
NERS.    Juv. 

*THEFREE  RANGERS. 
Juv. 

*THE  RIFLEMEN   OF 
THE  OHIO.     Juv. 


Anonymous 

(Wells  Gardner) 


*DlCK    O* 

Juv. 


THE  FENS. 


*  KING'S  FERRY.    Juv. 


*KlTWYK 


THE  INTERLOPER 


THE     VANISHING 
SMUGGLER 


THE  DEW  OF  THEIR 
YOUTH 

«CHLOE  FINDS  A  CON- 
SCIENCE (in  "  The 
Stairway  of  Hon- 
our ") 


J.  A.  Altsheler 
(Appleton) 


G.  Manville  Fenn 

(Blackie,    Eng.  ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Frederick  C.  Badrick 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  J.  Lane 
(J.  Lane) 

Violet  Jacob 
(Heinernann) 

Stephen  Chalmers 
Mills  &  Boon,  Eng.  ;  and 
E.  J.  Clode,  U.S.A.) 

S.  R.  Crockett 

(Hodder  &  Stoughton) 

Maud  Stepney  Rawson 
(Mills  &  Boon) 


The  experiences  of  a  stolen 
child  in  the  London,  &c.,  of 
a  century  ago. 


An  interesting  series  dealing 
with  the  first  settlers  in 
|    Kentucky  ;  the  great  War 
'    trail,  &c. 


The  Eastern  Counties  of  Eng- 
land in  Georgian  days, 
before  the  draining  of  the 
fens. 

Weymouth  and  district  in 
press-gang  days. 


Dutch  village  life  about  a 
hundred  years  ago. 

Life  on  the  Coast  of  Scotland 
(Eastern  Lowlands),  1800- 
03. 

Village  of  Morag  (Clyde 
estuary),  early  Nineteenth 
Century. 

Galloway  and  Edinburgh 
about  a  century  ago. 

London  Society  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Nineteenth 
Century  :  Almack's,  &c. 


a  Perhaps  the  best  of  several  semi-historic  short  stories  in  the  same  volume.    One  other — dealing 
with  the  London  of  1814 — may  be  mentioned,  viz.  "  Delia  at  a  Disadvantage." 


416  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


FRENCHMAN'S  CREEK 
(in"  Shakespeare's 
Christmas,"  &c.) 

THE  Two  LADY  LAS- 
CELLES 


COUSIN  HUGH 


THE  LONGSHOREMEN 


Two  MEN  o'  MENDIP 


PERFIDIOUS  LYDIA 


YE  SEXES  GIVE  EAR  ! 
(in  "  Shakespeare's 
Christmas,"  &c.) 

*THE  SHIRRA 


*TOM  CRINGLE'S  LOG. 
Juv. 


a*  THE 
LASS. 


WATERLOO 
Juv. 


A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 

(Smith,    Elder,    Eng.  ; 
and  Longmans, U.S.  A.) 

"  Sarah  Tytler  " 
(Digby,  Long  &  Co.) 


"  Theo.  Douglas 
(Methuen) 


George  Bartram 
(E.  Arnold) 

Walter  Raymond 

(Longmans,  Eng.  ;  and 
Doubleday,  U.S.A.) 

Frank  Barrett 

(Chatto  &  Windus) 

A.  T.  Quiller  Couch 

(Smith,    Elder,    Eng. ; 
and  Longmans.U.S.A.  ] 

W.  C.  Mackenzie 

(A.  Gardner,  Paisley) 


Michael  Scott 

(Routledge  and  others) 


Mary  H.  Debenham 
(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A.) 


Falmouth  district  about  the 
1 800-10  period. 


English  social  life  (London 
and  Lincolnshire)  in 
Napoleonic  days :  French 
refugee's  daughter,  &c. 

Traffic  in  the  escape  of 
French  prisoners,  and  the 
importation  of  false  coin, 
&c.,  English  South  Coast 
c.  1809. 

Sussex  in  1811 :  smugglers. 


Rustic  life  in  the  Cheddar 
district,  1813. 


Social    life    (Gretna    Green, 
&c.)  ;  1809  and  1814. 

Plymouth  and  Saltash  dis- 
trict in  Napoleonic  days. 


Western  Islands  of  Scotland 
about  the  second  and 
third  decades  of  the  Nine- 
teenth Century :  smugglers, 
French  and  American  pri- 
vateers, &c. 

Jamaica,  Cuba,  and  the  West 
Indies  in  the  second  decade 
of  the  Nineteenth  Century. 

English  North  Country  life 
(Tees  district)  in  1816  and 
in  1825.  Last  chapter,  1838. 


a  Though  primarily  intended  for  the  young,  only  a  mature  reader  will  fully  appreciate   the 
real  force  and  humour  of  this  simple  tale. 


SUPPLEMENT.  417 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


*THE  BROAD  HIGHWAY  Jeffery  Farnol 

(S.    Low,    Eng. ;     and 
Little,  Brown,  U.S.A. 


THE      CARBONELS. 
Juv. 

ISIDRO 


*THE  LEAD  OF  HONOUR 


THE  DOOMSWOMAN 


THE  GORGEOUS  ISLE 


MARCIA  SCHUYLER 


THB    GIRL    I    LEFT 
BEHIND  ME 


*NATHAN  BURKE 


THE         SCHOOLBOY 
OUTLAWS.    Juv. 

fr' 

A  DAUGHTER  OP  THE 
MANSE 


*THE     HISTORY     OF 
AYTHAN  WARING 


j  Charlotte  M.  Yonge 

(National  Society,  Eng.; 
and  Whittaker.U.S.A. 

Mrs.  Mary  Hunter  Austin 
(Constable,  Eng. ;    and 
Houghton,       Mifflin, 
U.S.A.) 

Norval  Richardson 

(Sir  I.   Pitman,   Eng.  ; 
and  L.  C.  Page.U.S.A. 

Gertrude  Atherton 
(J.  Lane) 

Gertrude  Atherton 

(Doubleday,  Page  &  Co. 

i  Grace     Livingston       Hill 

Lutz 
(Lippincott) 

Weymer  J.  Mills 
(Dodd,  Mead  &  Co.) 


Mary  S.  Watts 
(Macmillan) 


H.  Elrington 
(Simpkin  &  Co.) 

"  Sarah  Tytler  " 
(J-  Long) 


Violet  Jacob 

(Heinemann,  Eng.  ;  and 
Button,  U.S.A.) 


Kent  in  the  Regency  period  : 
a  tale  of  love  and  adven- 
ture. 

Village  life  (England),  1822- 
30  period. 

The  Spanish  Missions  of 
Southern  California,  early 
Nineteenth  Century. 


Natchez,    Mississippi,    about 
1830. 


California  in  1840. 


Life  at  an  English  Health 
Resort  (Nevis)  in  the  West 
Indies,  1842. 

New  England  village  life  in 
the  second  quarter  of  the 
Nineteenth  Century. 

New  York  in  the  second 
quarter  of  the  Nineteenth 
Century. 

Ohio  in  the  Mexican  War 
time  (1846)  :  a  study  of 
social  life  and  of  character. 

School  life  in  S.  Ireland  in  the 
Thirties. 

Scottish  village  life  in  the 
Thirties  and  Forties  :  the 
Disruption  of  1843. 

Brecpnshire  and  Hereford- 
shire (Valley  of  the  Wye) 
in  the  second  quarter  of  the 
Nineteenth  Century. 


418  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEMI-HISTORICAL   NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*EARLY  VICTORIAN 
(BASSET;  A 
VILLAGE  CHRO- 
NICLE) 

*A  SUFFOLK  COURT- 
SHIP 


a* JOSEPH  VANCE 


THE  WEAVERS 


GIANELLA 


THE  RAILWAY  SIG- 
NALMAN (in  "A 
Feast  of  Stories 
from  Foreign 
Lands ").  Juv. 

BENBONUNA 


*THE   OLD   PEABODY 
PEW 


THE    WHITE    RIVER 
RAFT 


HECLA  SANDWITH 


THE  VIGILANTE  GIRL 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


"  S.  G.  Tallentyre  " 
(Smith,    Elder,    Eng.  ; 
and     Moffat,     Yard,  I 
U.S.A.) 

M.  Betham  Edwards 
(Hurst  &  Blackett) 


Wm.  De  Morgan 

(Heinemann,  Eng.  ;  and 
Holt,  U.S.A.) 

Gilbert  Parker 

(Heinemann,  Eng. ;  and 
Harper,  U.S.A.) 

Mrs.  Hugh  Fraser 
(Methuen) 

James  F.  Cobb 
(Wells  Gardner) 


R.  Bruce 
(J.  Long) 

Kate  Douglas  Wiggin 
(Hodder,     Eng.  ;      and 
Houghton,       Mimin, 
U.S.A.) 

Lewis  B.  Miller 

(Dana  Estes  &  Co.) 


EdwardUffingtonValentine 
(Harper,     Eng.  ;      and 
Bobbs-Merrill,  U.S.A.) 

Jerome  Hart 

(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.) 


English  village  life  in  the 
second  quarter  of  the  Nine- 
teenth Century  (the  late 
Thirties). 

East  Anglian  life  in  the 
middle  of  the  Nineteenth 
Century. 

Victorian  life  and  manners. 


Rural  England,  London,  and 
Cairo,  in  mid-Nineteenth 
Century. 

Rome  in  the  early  period  of 
Pope  Pius  IX. 

Life  in  a  Flemish  village,  1852. 


South  Australian  Bush  life  in 
the  Fifties. 

New    England    village    life, 
mid-Nineteenth  Century. 


The  Mississippi  Valley,  mid- 
Nineteenth  Century  ;  river 
life  (raft  voyage,  &c.). 

Central  Pennsylvania  in 
1856  :  the  Quakers,  &c. 


California  in  the  Fifties. 


a  The  first,  and  probably  the  best,  of  the  author's  vivid  romances. 


SUPPLEMENT.  419 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 


*THR  BLAZED  TRAIL  \ 

*THE         RIVERMAN  ) 
(Sequel)  ) 

*THE  TIDES  OF  BARNE- 
GAT 


THE  WAY  OF  A  MAN 


THE    NEWELL    FOR- 
TUNE 

WESTOVER  OF  WANA- 
LAH 

*THE  KENTUCKIANS 


THE  QUAKERESS 


THE  GLORY  OF  His 
COUNTRY 

^EVELYN  BYRD 


RUEL    DURKEE, 
MASTER  OF  MEN 

CONSTANCE  TRESCOT 


LOVE  is  THE  SUM  OF 
IT  ALL 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


Stewart  Edward  White 
(Constable,  Eng.  ;    and 
McClure,  U.S.A.) 

F.  Hopkinson  Smith 
(Hodder,     Eng. ;      and 
Scribner,  U.S.A.) 

Emerson  Hough 

(The  Outing  Publishing 
Co.,  New  York) 


Mansfield  Brooks 
(J.  Lane) 

G.  Gary  Eggleston 
(Lothrop.Lee  &  Shepard) 


J.  Ball  Naylor 
(C.  M.  Clark) 


"  Max  Adeler  " 

(Ward,  Lock,  Eng.  ;  and 
J.  C.  Winston,  U.S.A.) 

Frederick  Landis 
(Scribner) 

G.  Gary  Eggleston 
(Lothrop) 

G.  Waldo  Browne 

(Badger,  Boston.U.S.A.) 

S.  Weir  Mitchell 
(Century  Co.) 

G.  Cary  Eggleston 
(Lothrop) 


SUBJECT. 


Pioneer  life  in  the  Eastern 
portion  of  Michigan,  mid- 
Nineteenth  Century. 


Fisher  life  on  the  New  Jersey 
shore,  in  mid-Nineteenth 
Century. 

Virginia,  the  Platte,  &c.,  in 
the  Fifties  and  Sixties: 
the  Western  Movement 
(Indians). 

New  England  life  before  the 
Civil  War. 

Virginia,  mid-Nineteenth 
Century,  before  the  Civil 
War. 

Ohio  in  the  early  Sixties : 
domestic  scenes  apart  from 
the  War. 

Eastern  Pennsylvania,  1861- 
62  :  the  "  Friends  "  during 
the  Civil  War. 

Indiana  village  life  in  the 
American  Civil  War  period. 

Virginia  in  the  later  period  of 
the  Civil  War. 

New  Hampshire  life  at  the 
end  of  the  Civil  War. 


The    South    just    after    the 
American  Civil  War. 

The  Reconstruction  period  in 
Virginia. 


a  This  novel  is  the  third  volume  in  the  Civil  War  Series,  of  which  "  Dorothy  South  "  and  "  The 
Master  of  Warlock  "  (see  p.  127)  were  the  first  two  volumes. 


420  SUPPLEMENT. 

SEMI-HISTORICAL  NOVELS  AND  TALES— continued. 


TITLE  OF  BOOK. 

*THE  PRINCE  OF  I.is- 

NOVER 

*WHEN     WE     WERE 
BOYS 

MARRIED  IN  INDIA 


*FlRE,        SNOW        AND 

WATER.     Juv. 


RAW  GOLD 
*GROWTH 


AUTHOR  AND  PUBLISHER. 


SUBJECT. 


Grace  Rhys 
(Methuen) 

William  O'Brien 
(Longmans) 

Constance  Howell 
(J.  Ouseley) 

E.  S.  Ellis 

(Cassell,     Eng.  ;       and 
Winston,  U.S.A.) 

Bertrand  W.  Sinclair 
(Geo.  W.  Dillingham) 

"  Graham  Travers  " 
(Constable,  Eng.  ;    and 
Holt,  U.S.A.) 


Ireland  in  the  early  Sixties. 


The  Fenian  movement  (Ire- 
land) about  1866-67. 

An  Anglo-Indian  tale  of  the 
Sixties. 

Hudson  Bay  Territory  during 
the  Company's  latter  days, 
1860-70. 

Adventures  in  N.W.  America, 
1874- 

Divinity  students  in  Edin- 
burgh, and  the  mid-Vic- 
torian intellectual  influ- 
ences. 


NOTES   ON    JUVENILE    LITERATURE 


"My  own  view  is  that  English  History  should  be  an  inheritance 
of  childhood  ;  that  its  legends  and  its  romance  should  grow  into 
our  thoughts  from  very  early  years,  and  should  expand  themselves 
with  the  expansion  of  our  minds  ;  that  we  should  feel  History  and 
dream  of  it  rather  than  learn  it  as  a  lesson." 

C.  K.  L.  Fletcher  in  the  Preface  to  his 
"  Introductory  History  of  England? 


NOTES  ON   JUVENILE  LITERATURE. 

BESIDES  the  many  novels  and  tales  which  make  appeal  to 
the  young  as  Historical  Fiction  proper,  there  are  certain 
books  of  the  "  true  story,"  legendary,  and  semi-fictional 
type,  which  may  be  recommended  for  children's  reading. 

"  The  Red  Book  of  Heroes,"  and  other  volumes  in 
Mr.  Andrew  Lang's  series  of  story-books  (Longmans  &  Co.), 
are  well-known  examples  of  the  kind.  Another  deservedly 
popular  series  is  that  entitled,  Told  through  the  Ages 
(George  G.  Harrap,  Eng.  ;  and  D.  C.  Heath,  U.S.A.)  ; 
I  would  specially  mention  the  volume,  "  Britain  Long  Ago, 
stories  from  Old  English  and  Celtic  Sources.  Retold  by 
E.  M.  Wilmot-Buxton,"  which  contains  stories  of  King 
Alfred,  King  Arthur,  &c.,  based  on  Saxon  Chronicles  and 
Celtic  poems — Ireland,  Wales,  and  England.  The  same 
publishers  have  brought  out  several  larger  volumes  in  their 
admirable  "  Myths "  series,  embodying  Greek,  Roman, 
Norse,  British,  and  Mediaeval  legends ;  again,  in  their 
recently  published  "  The  High  Deeds  of  Finn  "  (T.  W. 
Rolleston),  and  in  "  Cuchulain  the  Hound  of  Ulster " 
(Eleanor  Hull),  the  early  Irish  myths  are  delightfully 
presented.  An  excellent  little  book  of  semi-historic  and 
mythical  stories  is  "  Tales  from  Chaucer,"  retold  by 
J.  Walker  McSpadden  in  the  series,  All  Time  Tales 
(George  G.  Harrap,  Eng. ;  and  D.  C.  Heath,  U.S.A.). 
Similarly,  Messrs.  T.  C.  &  E.  C.  Jack  have  issued  a  number 


424  SUPPLEMENT. 

of  dainty  little  story-books  based  on  Chaucer,  &c.,  in  their 
Told  to  the  Children  Series  ;  the  same  firm  have  published  a 
series  of  Famous  Historical  Romances,  retold  for  children 
by  Alice  F.  Jackson  ("  Hereward  the  Wake,"  "  The  Tower 
of  London,"  "  The  Last  of  the  Barons,"  "  Westward  Ho  !  " 
&c.)  ;  while  in  The  Children's  Scott  Series  (T.  C.  &  E.  C. 
Jack),  Miss  Jackson  has  retold  several  of  Scott's  novels. 
These  last-named  series  are  also  published  in  America  by 
Messrs.  Jacobs  &  Co.,  Philadelphia.  Another  series  of 
retold  passages  from  the  Waverley  Novels  has  been 
published  by  A.  &  C.  Black,  Eng.,  and  Macmillan,  U.S.A., 
under  the  title,  "  Red  Cap  Tales  from  Scott,  stolen  from 
the  Treasure  Chest  of  the  Wizard  of  the  North,"  by  S.  R. 
Crockett  ("  Waverley,"  "  Guy  Mannering,"  "  Ivanhoe," 
"  Quentin  Durward,"  &c.).  A  handsome  volume,  delight- 
fully illustrated  by  Hugh  Thomson,  is  "  Tales  of  the 
Canterbury  Pilgrims,"  retold  from  Chaucer  and  other 
writers,  by  F.  J.  Harvey  Darton  (Wells  Gardner)  ;  and 
Henry  Newbolt's  "  Stories  from  Froissart  "  (Wells  Gardner) 
is  another  attractive  book,  illustrated  by  Gordon  Browne. 
Besides  the  many  interesting  romances  of  Professor  A.  J. 
Church,  which  appear  in  my  lists,  there  are  several  books 
by  the  same  writer  which  may  be  recommended  as  specially 
good  examples  of  the  true  story,  semi-fictional,  and  mythical 
type ;  they  illustrate — as  the  title  in  each  case  sufficiently 
indicates — ancient  Greek  and  Roman  life  and  tradition  ; 
Charlemagne ;  the  Crusades ;  &c.  Messrs.  Seeley  are 
the  publishers.  The  same  English  firm,  and  Messrs. 
Lippincott,  U.S.A.,  have  recently  issued  "  A  Knight 
Errant  and  his  Doughty  Deeds :  the  story  of  Amadis  of 
Gaul,"  edited  by  N.  J.  Davidson.  Ireland  in  the  Heroic 
period  is  well  depicted  in  Standish  O'Grady's  "  Gates  of 
the  North  "  (Sealy,  Bryers  &  Walker,  new  edition,  1908). 


SUPPLEMENT.  425 

Some  thrilling  short  romances  of  Anglo-Saxon,  Norman, 
and  later  Britain,  as  well  as  of  mediaeval  and  modern  Europe, 
are  presented  in  Mr.  Douglas  Stedman's  volume,  "  For 
Love  and  Honour  "  (T.  Nelson  &  Sons).  Excellent  semi- 
fictional  tales  dealing  with  the  Days  of  Alfred,  of  William 
the  Conqueror,  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  of  the  late  Queen 
Victoria,  are  to  be  found  in  Eva  March  Tappan's  Makers  of 
England  Series  (Hutchinson,  Eng. ;  and  Lothrop,  U.S.A.). 
In  Methuen  &  Co.'s  Stories  from  Old  Romance,  edited  by 
E.  M.  Wilmot-Buxton,  the  "  romantic  epics  "  of  various 
countries  (France,  Italy,  &c.)  are  well  represented.  I 
have  already  alluded  (see  p.  243)  to  Mr.  G.  P.  Upton's 
biographical  sketches  in  Life  Stories  for  Young  People 
(A.  C.  McClurg  &  Co.,  U.S.A.).  For  children  of  7  to  9, 
Hugh  Laurence's  small  volume,  "  Tales  of  an  Old  Yew  Tree  " 
(Blackie),  offers  simple  stories  of  British  History.  A  delight- 
ful little  book — covering  many  times  and  peoples — is  Miss 
Mabel  Quiller-Couch's  "  Children  in  History "  (Frowde 
and  Hodder's  Oxford  History  Readers}. 

So  far  I  have  been  alluding,  especially,  to  tales  of 
European  and  British  History.  For  those  who  desire  to 
find  illustration  of  American  History,  Harper's  Strange 
Stories  Series  may  be  recommended;  there  are  four 
volumes  in  this  series,  dealing  respectively  with  Colonial 
Days,  the  Revolution,  the  War  of  1812,  and  the  Civil  War — 
the  stories  being  written  by  such  favourite  authors  as 
Howard  Pyle,  M.  E.  Seawell,  &c.  Again,  a  large  selection 
is  offered  in  the  Civil  War,  Colonial,  and  Indian  volumes 
published  by  the  Century  Company  in  their  Stories  retold 
from  St.  Nicholas  ;  in  this  same  series  there  are  further 
volumes  dealing  with  General  History  and  Legend  (Greece, 
Rome,  &c.).  Studies  of  such  American  heroes  as  George 
Washington,  Benjamin  Franklin,  Lafayette,  Lincoln,  &c 


426  SUPPLEMENT. 

will  be  found  in  Elbridge  S.  Brooks's  The  True  Story 
Series  (Lothrop).  Turning,  for  a  moment,  to  a  series  in 
which  fiction  largely  predominates,  the  numerous  volumes 
in  The  Boys  of  Liberty  Library  (David  McKay,  Philadelphia) 
cover  the  American  Revolution,  the  French  and  Indian 
Wars,  and  the  Naval  Fights  of  1812 ;  they  are  written  by 
John  De  Morgan,  T.  C.  Harbaugh,  and  others.  In  the 
volume  entitled,  "  Letters  from  Colonial  Children,"  by 
Eva  March  Tappan  (Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co.),  early 
American  Colonial  periods  are  illustrated  through  the 
medium  of  letters  supposed  to  have  been  written  from  the 
Colonies  to  friends  in  the  Old  World.  For  more  exact 
guidance  in  the  matter  of  American  History-books,  I 
would  refer  inquirers  to  the  section  headed  "  Historical 
Stories  for  the  Elementary  School  "  in  "  A  Bibliography  of 
History  for  Schools  and  Libraries :  with  descriptive  and 
critical  annotations,"  by  Charles  M.  Andrews,  Ph.D., 
Professor  of  History  in  the  Johns  Hopkins  University  ; 
J.  Montgomery  Gambrill ;  and  Lida  Lee  Tall.  This  excellent 
work  has  been  published  recently  by  Longmans  &  Co., 
New  York,  "  under  the  auspices  of  the  Association  of 
History  Teachers  of  the  Middle  States  and  Maryland." 

Going  to  yet  another  department  of  Juvenile  illustration, 
well-selected  passages  from  Bede,  Froissart,  Scott,  Browning, 
Defoe,  &c.,  may  be  found  in  "  Dramatic  Scenes  from 
History,"  edited  by  Fanny  Johnson  (E.  Arnold,  1908)  : 
and  this  brings  me  to  books  of  historical  poetry,  some  of 
which  I  have  recommended  elsewhere  (vide  p.  163).  Two 
specially  attractive  volumes  are,  "  Poetry  of  Empire : 
Nineteen  Centuries  of  British  History,"  edited  by  John 
and  Jean  Lang,  with  Sixteen  Illustrations  in  colour  by 
W.  Rainey  (T.  C.  &  E.  C.  Jack,  1910)  ;  and  "  Poems  of 
American  History,"  edited  by  Burton  E.  Stevenson 


SUPPLEMENT.  427 

(Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co.,  1908).  The  following  books 
are  much  smaller,  but  decidedly  useful :  "  English  History 
in  Verse,"  edited  by  Ernest  Pertwee  (Routledge,  Eng.  ; 
and  Button,  U.S.A.,  1906)  ;  "  Ballads  and  Poems  illus- 
trating English  History,"  edited  by  F.  Sidgwick  (Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1907)  ;  and  "  A  Book  of  Poetry 
illustrative  of  English  History,"  edited  by  G.  Dowse 
(Macmillan,  1908),  in  three  parts,  viz.  (i)  A.D.  61-1485  ; 
(2)  The  Tudors  and  Stuarts  ;  (3)  The  Hanoverian  Dynasty. 
To  Miss  Josephine  Smith's  lists  of  Poetry  illustrating 
English  History,  I  draw  my  readers'  attention  elsewhere 
(see  Bibliography,  p.  434).  Lastly,  I  may  mention  that 
The  School  World  (Macmillan)  for  March,  1909,  has  an 
interesting  article  by  Miss  Fanny  Johnson  on  "  School 
Plays,"  giving  lists  of  Historical  and  Romantic  Plays 
suitable  for  young  folk ;  the  same  number  of  this  magazine, 
it  is  worth  noting,  contains  some  carefully  balanced  remarks 
on  "  Historical  Story  Books,"  by  Professor  F.  J.  C. 
Hearnshaw. 

Having  thus  found  myself  once  more  in  the  region  of 
Prose,  it  is,  perhaps,  fitting  that  I  should  indicate,  at  the 
very  end  of  this  section,  two  volumes  of  short  stories  which, 
seeing  that  they  are  hardly  to  be  classed  with  any  of  the 
various  books  here  recommended,  ought  to  be  considered 
apart :  I  allude  to  Rudyard  Kipling's  "  Puck  of  Pook's 
Hill,"  and  the  sequel,  "  Rewards  and  Fairies  "  (Macmillan, 
Eng.  ;  and  Doubleday,  U.S.A.).  The  tales  comprised  in 
these  volumes  furnish  an  original  blend  of  fairy  tale  and 
history,  and  youthful  readers  will  find  therein  much  enter- 
taining reflection  of  ancient,  mediaeval,  and  more  recent 
life  :  Romans  (Britain),  Picts,  Saxons,  Normans,  Danes, 
English,  French,  Americans — all  flit  across  Mr.  Kipling's 
pages. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

BESIDES  the  list  already  given  (pp.  167-174)  of  books  and 
articles,  &c.,  dealing  with  Historical  Fiction,  I  set  down 
here  a  few  of  the  more  interesting  contributions  to  the 
subject,  which  have  appeared  in  the  seven  years  beginning 
1904. 

Article  on  "  Maurus  Jokai  and  the  Historical  Novel,"  by  H.  W.  V. 
Temperley,  in  The  Contemporary  Review  for  July,  1904  ;  also 
appears  in  The  Living  Age  (Boston,  U.S.A.)  of  August  13, 
1904. 

Article  on  "  Mr.  Stanley  Weyman's  Novels  "  in  The  Church  Quarterly 

Review  for  January,  1905. 

[Contains  a  strong  plea  for  Historical  Romance  in  the  opening 
sections.] 

Chapter   V.    ("  The   Waverley   Novels "),    Chapter   VI.    ("  Scott's 

Greatness"),    and    Chapter    XIII.    ("Charles    Reade ")    in 

"  The  Makers  of  English  Fiction,"  by  W.  J.  Dawson  (Hodder 

&  Stoughton,  Eng.  ;   and  Revell,  U.S.A.). 

[Some  acute  remarks  on  Historical  Romance  are  to  be  found 

in  each  of  the  three  chapters  specified  above.] 

The  Lists  of  Fiction  dealing  with  Nelson  and  his  times,  compiled  by 
James  Hooper,  Jonathan  Nield,  and  others  in  Notes  and 
Queries,  Tenth  Series,  Vol.  III.  (January — June,  1905), 
pp.  26,  77,  116,  and  294. 

Dr.  Richard  Garnett's  Introduction  in  the  new  edition  of  "  The 
Household  of  Sir  Thomas  More,"  by  Anne  Manning  (De  La 
More  Press,  1905). 
[A  well-balanced  estimate  of  the  Historical  Novel  by  one  whose 

knowledge   and    literary   judgment   were   really    wonderful.     This 

short  essay  has  a  special  value  as  embodying  some  of  a  great  scholar's 

reflections  at  the  end  of  his  long  life.] 


432  SUPPLEMENT. 

The  second  edition.  "  revised  and  greatly  enlarged,"  of  H.  Courthope 
Bowen's  "  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Historical  Novels  and 
Tales.  For  the  Use  of  School  Libraries  and  Teachers  of 
History"  (Stanford,  1905). 

[It  is  a  great  pity  that,  in  this  later  edition  of  his  Catalogue, 
Mr.  Bowen — who  was  a  pioneer  in  his  own  line  of  Bibliography — 
did  not  do  more  to  improve  his  original  work  (published  1882  : 
vide  p.  1 68  of  this  volume).  Apparently  ignoring  what  had  been 
done  by  others,  he  allowed  glaring  mistakes  to  remain,  and  his  lists, 
as  they  now  stand,  are  most  inaccurate  as  well  as  most  incomplete. 
Several  well-known  romances  are  re-entered  under  their  sub-titles  as 
separate  books  !  Indeed,  there  can  have  been  no  serious  attempt 
at  verification  in  numerous  cases.] 

"  History  in  Fiction :  a  Guide  to  the  Best  Historical  Romances, 
Sagas,  Novels,  and  Tales,"  by  Ernest  A.  Baker.  Vol.  I. 
English  Fiction ;  Vol.  II.  American  and  Foreign  Fiction 
(Routledge,  Eng.  ;  and  Dutton,  U.S.A.,  1907). 

[The  author's  wide  reputation  is  well  sustained  by  these  really 
excellent  lists,  which  for  the  most  part  are  fully  annotated,  and 
conveniently  arranged  under  Countries.  Perhaps  it  would  have 
been  better  if  the  entry  of  exact  dates  had  only  been  attempted  where 
a  book  was  known  at  first-hand.  Besides  Historical  Fiction  proper, 
some  seventy  to  eighty  volumes  of  Sagas  and  Mediaeval  Romances 
are  included :  to  the  student  such  an  addition  must  prove  very 
useful.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  value  of 
Dr.  Baker's  work  is  really  enhanced  by  the  inclusion  of  such  barely 
semi-historic  examples  as  the  fourteen  novels  of  Charles  Dickens 
which  appear,  with  brief  comment,  on  p.  117  (Vol.  I.).  Turning 
from  Novels  to  Juvenile  Tales,  these  lists  seem  to  me  far  less  satis- 
factory on  that  side  :  the  notes,  besides  being  often  meagre,  are  not 
always  reliable,  while  a  great  many  of  the  best  tales — published 
before  "  History  in  Fiction  "  was  compiled — do  not  appear  at  all. 
A  good  feature  in  each  volume  is  the  Index.] 

Article  on  "  The  Growth  of  the  Historical  Novel,"  by  Rowland  E. 
Prothero,  in  The  Quarterly  Review  for  January,  1907. 

[A    very    valuable    contribution.     The    origin    and    growth    of 
Historical  Fiction  are  dealt  with  at  considerable  length.] 

The  essay  on  "  A  Historical  Romance  "  in  John  Morley's  "  Miscel- 
lanies, 4th  Series  "  (Macmillan  &  Co.,  1908). 


SUPPLEMENT.  433 

[Some  extremely  interesting  remarks  on  Historical  Romance 
in  general,  as  well  as  on  the  particular  book — Mr.  Frederic  Harrison's 
"  Theophano " — which  occasioned  the  essay.  Appeared  first  in 
The  Nineteenth  Century  for  October,  1904.] 

Chapter  VI.  ("  Background  ")  in  "  The  Technique  of  the  Novel," 
by  Charles  F.  Home,  Assistant  Professor  of  English  in  the 
College  of  New  York  City  (Harper  &  Brothers,  1908). 

[There  is  a  well-written  section  on  "  The  Historical  Novel,' 
in  the  chapter  above-mentioned.     I  quote  one  passage  :  "  Historic 
novels  may  do  far  more  for  history  than  make  it '  pleasant  medicine.' 
They  may  vivify,  they  may  interpret  it,  as  the  sober  historian  never 
can."] 

Chapter  VI.  ("  Modern  Romanticism  :  Scott  ")  in  "Masters  of  the 
English  Novel,"  by  Richard  Burton,  Professor  of  English 
Literature  in  the  University  of  Minnesota  (George  Bell  &  Sons, 
Eng. ;  and  Henry  Holt  &  Co.,  U.S.A.,  1909). 

[A  fair  and  thoroughly  sane  estimate  of  Historical  Romance, 
and  of  the  true  relation  between  "  the  story  of  truth  and  the  story 
of  poetry."] 

The  chapter  on  "  Scott  and  Romanticism  "  in  Part  II.  of  "A 
History  of  Story- telling,"  by  Arthur  Ransome  (T.  C.  and 
E.  C.  Jack,  Eng. ;  and  F.  A.  Stokes  &  Co..  U.S.A.,  1909). 

[Vigorously  written,  and  distinctly  illuminating.] 

The  "  Introduction,"  by  Arthur  James  Grant,  Professor  of  History 
in  the  University  of  Leeds,  in  the  volume  of  "  Scott  "  selec- 
tions which  forms  one  of  the  Masters  of  Literature  Series 
(George  Bell  &  Sons,  1909). 

[Exceedingly  interesting  and  instructive.] 

The  sections  on  "  Setting  in  Historical  Fiction  "  and  "  The  Question 
of  Anachronism  "  in  Chapter  IV.  ("  The  Study  of  Prose 
Fiction ")  of  William  H.  Hudson's  "  Introduction  to  the 
Study  of  Literature  "  (George  G.  Harrap  &  Co.,  Eng.  ;  and 
D.  C.  Heath,  U.S.A.,  1910). 
[Brief,  but  suggestive.] 

2  F 


434  SUPPLEMENT. 

The  section  on  "  Creative  Art :  Prose  Fiction  "  in  "  The  Literature 
of  the  Victorian  Era,"  by  Hugh  Walker,  LL.D.,  Professor 
of  English  in  St.  David's  College,  Lampeter  (Cambridge 
University  Press,  Eng.  ;  and  G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons,  U.S.A., 
1910). 

[Especially  interesting  and  noteworthy,  for  readers  of  Historical 
Romance,  are  the  remarks  on  Scott  and  his  imitators  (pp.  619-621)  ; 
those  on  Thackeray  (pp.  704-706)  ;  those  on  Reade  (pp.  763-765)  ; 
and  those  on  the  Later  Fiction  (pp.  753-755).] 

The  articles  on  "  A  Novel-Reader's  Course  of  English  History," 
by  Ernest  Baker,  M.A.,  D.Lit.,  appearing  in  T.  P.'s  Weekly, 
June  24,  and  July  8,  1910. 
[An  interesting  attempt  to  point  out  the  more  important  romances 

dealing  with  the  various  English  epochs.] 

Article  on  "  The  Importance  of  the  Historical  Novel,"  by  J.  F. 
Harris,  in  The  Journal  of  Education  for  August,  1910. 

[A  forcible  plea  for  the  uses  of  Imaginative  Literature  in  the 
training  of  youth.] 

The  paragraphs  of  "  Illustrative  Material "  (Prose  and  Poetry), 
contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  C.  Smith  of  Cincinnati  Uni- 
versity, in  "  Reading  References  for  English  History,"  by 
Henry  Lewin  Cannon,  Ph.D.,  Assistant  Professor  of  History, 
Leland  Stanford  Junior  University  (Ginn  &  Co.,  Eng.  and 
U.S.A.,  1910). 

[The  lists  of  Historical  Fiction  in  this  work  are  neither  complete 
nor  reliable :  they  are  largely  based  on  previous  bibliographies  of 
the  subject,  and  repeat  many  inaccuracies.  On  the  other  hand, 
Miss  Smith's  lists  of  Poetry  illustrating  English  History,  will  be 
found  decidedly  useful.] 

The  annotated  lists  of  "  Historical  Novels  "  and  "  Stories  of  Irish 
Life  in  the  Past,"  in  "  A  Readers'  Guide  to  Irish  Fiction," 
by  Stephen  J.  Brown,  S.J.  (Longmans  &  Co.,  Eng.  and  U.S.A., 
1910). 

[Wonderfully  comprehensive  lists  of  novels  and  tales  which  in 
some  way  illustrate  Irish  life  and  history.  The  descriptive  notes — 
often  of  considerable  length — are  interesting,  and  commendably 
free  from  bias.  Naturally,  some  of  the  romances  included  can  hardly 
attract  the  non-Irish  reader  ;  on  the  other  hand,  a  few  tales  of  general 
interest  might  still  be  added.  The  book  contains  useful  notes  on 
authors.] 


INDEX 

OF  AUTHORS  AND  TITLES. 
(SUPPLEMENT.) 


INDEX  OF  AUTHORS   AND  TITLES 

(SUPPLEMENT). 

NOTE. — The  Birth  and  Death  dates  of  Authors  have  been  given  where 
possible.  It  must  be  noted  that  the  book  dates  refer  to 
original  publication  ;  a  great  many  of  the  older  books  (espe- 
cially those  which  appeal  to  juvenile  readers)  have  been 
brought  out  in  new  form  within  the  last  year  or  two.  Transla- 
tion dates  are  ignored,  but  in  the  case  of  one  or  two  foreign 
books  I  have  had  to  be  content  with  the  approximate  date  of 
issue  ;  the  latter  remark  applies  also  to  a  few  mid-Nineteenth 
Century  English  volumes.  It  seems  almost  superfluous  to 
remind  readers  that  the  Indexes  which  follow,  have  reference 
to  the  Supplement  only ;  when  consulting  the  earlier  lists, 
see  pp.  177-235. 


"  A.L.O.E."     (See  Tucker,  C.  M.) 
ABBOTT,  Dr.  Edwin  A.,  b.  1838. 

Silanus  the  Christian  (1906),  248. 
ADAM,  Paul. 

La  Force  (1899),  377. 

L'Enfant  d'Austerlitz  (1902),  377. 
ADAMS,  Rev.  H.  C. 

The  Orphan  of  Evesham  (1877),  274. 

Mark's  Wedding  (1877),  282. 

The  White  Rose  of  Lynden  (1877),  286. 

The  Prior's  Ward  (1877),  298. 

In  the  Fifteen  (1893),  338. 

For  James  or  George  (1886),  342. 
ADAMS,  T.  William. 

Shibusawa  (1906),  399. 
ADDISON,  Julia  De  Wolf. 

Florestane  the  Troubadour  (1903),  274. 
"  ADELER,  Max."     (See  Clark,  C.  H.) 
ADERER,  A.,  b.  1855. 

Le  Drapeau  ou  la  Foi  ?  (1908),  399. 


438  SUPPLEMENT. 

ALCOCK,  Deborah. 

Crushed  Yet  Conquering  (1891),  282. 

The  Roman  Students  (1883),  284. 

Doctor  Adrian  (1897),  302. 

The  King's  Service  (1886),  313. 

The  Cross  and  the  Crown  (1886),  327. 

Done  and  Dared  in  Old  France  (1907),  335. 

The  Czar  (1882),  377. 
ALEXANDER,  Eleanor. 

The  Lady  of  the  Well  (1906),  271. 
ALTSHELER,  Joseph  A.,  b.  1862. 

The  Wilderness  Road  (1901),  370. 

In  Circling  Camps  (1900),  395. 

The  Horsemen  of  the  Plains  (1910).  402. 

The  Last  of  the  Chiefs  (1909).  4°2- 

The  Young  Trailers  (1907),  415. 

The  Forest  Runners  (1908),  415. 

The  Free  Rangers  (1909),  415. 

The  Riflemen  of  the  Ohio  (191°).  415. 
ANDERSON,  A.  J. 

Romance  of  Fra  Filippo  Lippi  (Romance  of  a  Friar  and  a 

Nun)  (1909),  284. 
ANDREWS,  Marion. 

Sir  Guy's  Trust  (1906),  268. 

Cousin  Isabel  (1892),  332. 

Sylvia's  Romance  (1900),  338. 

The  Child  of  the  Lighthouse  (1898),  372. 
ANDREYEV,  Leonid  N.,  b.  1871. 

Judas  Iscariot  (1907),  244. 

Ben  Tobit  (1906),  244. 

Eleazar  (1906).  244. 
ANONYMOUS. 

Brave  Dame  Mary  (1873),  260. 

The  Last  Days  of  John  Hus  (1909),  282. 

The  Separatist  (1906).  310. 

That  Master  of  Ours  (1908),  342. 

Hartley  House,  Calcutta  (1789),  353. 

Pandurang  Hari  (1826),  374. 

The  Life  and  Adventures  of  Lady  Anne  (1823),  415. 
AKDAGH,  W.  M. 

The  Magada  (1910),  288. 

"  ARDEN,  Henley  I."     (See  Knight,  Henrietta.) 
ASHTON,  Mark. 

Jezebel's  Husband  (Azalim)  (1904),  240. 
ATHERTON,  Gertrude. 

Rezanov  (1906),  376. 

The  Doomswoman  (1895),  417. 


SUPPLEMENT.  439 


ATHERTON,  Gertrude — continued. 

The  Gorgeous  Isle  (1908),  417. 
AUSTIN,  Mrs.  Mary  Hunter. 

Isidro  (1905),  417. 
AUVRAY,  R. 

Les  Gens  d'Epinal  (1891),  283. 
AVELING,  Francis. 

Arnoul  the  Englishman  (1908),  273. 
AVERY,  Harold,  b.  1867. 

Firelock  and  Steel  (1907),  382. 

With  Wellington  to  Waterloo  (1901),  383. 

Captain  Swing  (1908),  386. 
AYSCOUGH,  John,  b.  1858. 

San  Celestino  (1909),  274. 

Dromina  (1909),  386. 


BACHELLER,  Irving,  b.  1859. 

Vergilius  (1904),  242. 
BADRICK,  Frederick  C. 

The  Golden  Buckle  (1892),  324. 

Peckover's  Mill  (1890),  342. 

Starwood  Hall  (1888),  352. 

King's  Ferry  (1891),  415. 
BAERLEIN,  Henry. 

On  the  Forgotten  Road  (1909),  270. 
BAILEY,  H.  C.,  b.  1878. 

Raoul,  Gentleman  of  Fortune  (1907),  303. 

Colonel  Stow  (Colonel  Greatheart)  (1908),  316. 

Beaujeu  (1905),  328. 

Storm  and  Treasure  (1910),  364. 

The  God  of  Clay  (1908),  365. 

Springtime  (Under  Castle  Walls)  (1907),  410. 
BATLLY,  Auguste. 

The  Divine  Minstrels  (1908),  271. 
BAKER,  Mrs.  Cornelia,  b.  1855. 

The  Court  Jester  (1906),  288. 

The  Queen's  Page  (1905),  295. 
BAKER,  Emily. 

Peggy  Gainsborough  (1909),  346. 
BAKER,  H.  Barton. 

For  the  Honour  of  His  House  (1906),  330. 
BANGS,  Ella  M. 

The  King's  Mark  (1908),  355. 
BANKS,  Mrs.  G.  Linnaeus,  1821-97. 

God's  Providence  House  (1865),  368. 


440  SUPPLEMENT. 

BARHAM,  A.  M. 

The  Namesake  of  the  King  (1907),  268. 
BARNES,  Annie  M. 

A  Lass  of  Dorchester  (1904),  338. 

The  Laurel  Token  (1904),  338. 

Little  Betty  Blew  (1903),  338. 

Little  Lady  at  the  Fall  of  Quebec  (1909) ,  348. 
BARNES,  James,  b.  1866. 

Midshipman  Farragut  (1902),  379. 

A  Loyal  Traitor  (1897),  379. 

For  King  or  Country  (1896),  379. 
BARNETT,  J. 

The  Prince's  Valet  (1907),  349. 
BARR,  Amelia  E.,  b.  1831. 

The  House  on  Cherry  Street  (1909),  341. 

Bernicia  (1895),  346* 

The  Strawberry  Handkerchief  (1908),  349. 

The  Belle  of  Bowling  Green  (1904),  381. 
BARR,  Robert,  b.  1850. 

Cardillac  (1909),  308. 

The  Swordmaker  (1910),  410. 
BARRETA,  Enrique. 

La  Gloire  de  Don  Ramire  (c.  1908),  306. 
BARRETT,  Frank,  b.  1848. 

The  Obliging  Husband  (1907),  325. 

Perfidious  Lydia  (1910),  416. 
BARRINGTON,  Michael. 

The  Lady  of  Tripoli  (1910),  265. 

The  Knight  of  the  Golden  Sword  (1909),  332. 

The  Reminiscences  of  Sir  Barrington  Beaumont  (1904),  354. 

The  King's  Fool  (1904),  409. 
BARSTOW,  Mrs.  Montagu. 

The  Tangled  Skein  (In  Mary's  Reign  )(i907),  297. 

The  Nest  of  the  Sparrowhawk  (1909),  321. 

Beau  Brocade  (1908),  344. 

Petticoat  Government  (Petticoat  Rule)  (1910),  351. 

The  Scarlet  Pimpernel  (1905),  362. 

I  Will  Repay  (1906),  362. 

The  Elusive  Pimpernel  (1908),  362. 

By  the  Gods  Beloved  (The  Gates  of  Kamt)  (1905),  408. 
BARTRAM,  George. 

The  Longshoremen  (1903),  416. 
BASSETT,  Mrs.  Mary  E.  Stone. 

The  Little  Green  Door  (1905),  311. 
BATCHELOR,  D.  O. 

The  Unstrung  Bow  (1910),  291. 


SUPPLEMENT,  441 

BATILLIAT,  Marcel. 

La  Vendee  aux  Genets  (1908),  364. 
BAXTER,  J.  D. 

The  Meeting  of  the  Ways  (1908),  251 . 
BEALE,  Anne. 

Rose  Mervyn  (1905),  388. 
BEATTIH,  W.  B. 

The  Were- Wolf  (1910),  322. 
BECK,  William. 

Hawkwood  the  Brave  (1910),  278. 
BEDDOE,  David  M. 

The  Honour  of  Henri  de  Valois  (1905),  386. 
BEDDOES,  Captain  Willoughby. 

A  Son  of  Ashur  (1905),  240. 
BENNET,  Robert  Ames,  b.  1870. 

For  the  White  Christ  (1905),  258. 

A  Volunteer  with  Pike  (1909),  375. 
BENNETT,  Louie. 

A  Prisoner  of  His  Word  (1908),  370. 
BENSON,  Robert  Hugh,  b.  1871. 

The  History  of  Richard  Raynal  (1906),  285. 

The  King's  Achievement  (1905),  293. 

The  Queen's  Tragedy  (1906),  297. 

By  What  Authority  (1904),  298. 
"  BERTHEROY,  Jean."  (See  La  Barillier.) 
BERTZ,  E. 

The  French  Prisoners  (c.  1880),  400. 
BESANT,  Sir  Walter,  1836-1901. 

A  Fountain  Sealed  (1897),  345. 

The  Lady  of  Lynn  (1901),  412. 

No  Other  Way  (1902),  412. 
BESANT,  Sir  Walter,  and  James  Rice,  1843-82. 

'Twas  in  Trafalgar's  Bay,  &c.  (1879) : — 
Le  Chien  D'Or,  334. 
'Twas  in  Trafalgar's  Bay,  371. 
BETTESWORTH,  W.  A. 

Two  Little  Cavaliers  (1907),  316. 
BEVAN,  Tom. 

A  Hero  in  Wolf-Skin  (1904),  248. 

The  Fen  Robbers  (1907).  279. 

Red  Dickon,  the  Outlaw  (1906),  279. 

Held  by  Rebels  (1906),  285. 

The  War  God  and  the  Brown  Maiden  (1904),  291. 

The  Chancellor's  Spy  (1909),  292. 

Sea  Dogs  All  (1908),  298. 

The  "  Grey  Fox  "  of  Holland  (1908),  303. 

A  Trooper  of  the  Finns  (1905),  312. 


442  SUPPLEMENT. 

BEVAN,  Tom — continued. 

The  Goldsmith  of  Chepe  (1908),  324. 
BIDDER,  Mary  (afterwards  Porter). 

Westminster  Cloisters  (1887),  268. 
BIGGS,  A.  H. 

The  Marquis'  Heir  (1909),  361. 
BILLOT,  Augustin. 

Le  Roman  d'une  Versaillaise  (1909),  362. 
BIRD,  R. 

Jesus  the  Carpenter  of  Nazareth  (1899),  243. 
"  BIRMINGHAM,  George  A"  (Rev.  J.  O.  Hannay). 

The  Northern  Iron  (1907),  370. 
BLACK,  Clementina. 

Caroline  (1908),  413. 
BLACK,  Ladbroke,  and  Robert  Lynd. 

The  Mantle  of  the  Emperor  (1907),  388. 
BLAKE,  M.  M. 

The  Glory  and  Sorrow  of  Norwich  (1899),  276. 
BLISSETT,  Nellie  K. 

Beggars'  Luck  (1905),  322. 

The  Silver  Key  (1905),  326. 
BLUNDELL,  Mrs. 

Noblesse  Oblige  (1909),  365. 
BLYTH,  James. 

The  King's  Guerdon  (1906),  323. 

A  Hazardous  Wooing  (1907),  372. 

A  Bid  for  Loyalty  (1909),  400. 
BODKIN,  M.  McDonnell,  b.  1850. 

Lord  Edward  Fitzgerald  (1896),  369. 

True  Man  and  Traitor  (1910),  374. 
BOGUE,  Herbert  E. 

Dareford  (1907),  393. 
BONE,  Florence. 

A  Rose  of  York  (1910),  317. 

The  Morning  of  To-day  (1907),  346. 
BONNER,  Geraldine. 

The  Emigrant  Trail  (1910),  391. 

The  Pioneer  (1905),  402. 
EOURGES,  Elemir,  b.  1852. 

Sous  la  Hache  (1885),  364. 
BOUVET,  Marguerite. 

Clotilde  (1908),  375. 

"  BOWEN,  Marjorie."     (See  Campbell,  G.  V.) 
BOWKER,  Alfred. 

Armadin  (1908),  265. 
BOWLES,  Emily. 

Auriel  Selwode  (1908),  337. 


SUPPLEMENT.  443 

BOYLE,  Virginia  Frazer. 

Serena  (1905),  394. 
BOYLES,  Kate  and  Virgil. 

The  Spirit  Trail  (1910),  402. 
BRADDON,  M.  E.  (Mrs.  Maxwell),  b.  1837. 

The  Infidel  (1900),  346. 
BRADLEY,  S.  C. 

Jesus  of  Nazareth  (1908),  243. 
BRADY,  Cyrus  Townsend,  b.  1861. 

Little  France  (The  Quiberon  Touch)  (1909),  348. 

The  Blue  Ocean's  Daughter  (1907),  360. 

My  Lady's  Slipper  (1905),  360. 

The  Two  Captains  (1905),  366. 

The  Adventures  of  Lady  Susan  (1908),  368. 

A  Midshipman  in  the  Pacific  (1904),  380. 

In  the  Wasp's  Nest  (1902),  380. 

The  Patriots  of  the  South  (The  Patriots)  (1906),  394. 

On  the  Old  Kearsage  (1909),  395. 

A  Little  Traitor  to  the  South  (1904),  396. 
BRAINE,  Sheila  E. 

The  Adventures  of  Humfrey  Chatteris  (1902),  273. 
BRAMSTON,  Mary. 

The  King's  Daughters  (1907),  240. 

The  Failure  of  a  Hero  (1909),  301. 

The  Thorn  Fortress  (1879),  313. 

The  Story  of  a  Cat  and  a  Cake  (1896),  313. 

The  Adventures  of  Denis  (1892),  342. 

Dangerous  Jewels  (1890),  364. 
BRAND,  Captain  Jack. 

By  Wild  Waves  Tossed  (1908),  380. 
"  BRANDANE,  John." 

My  Lady  of  Aros  (1910),  346. 
BRAY,  Mrs.  Anna  Eliza,  1790-1883. 

Henry  De  Pomeroy  (1842),  269. 

De  Foix  (1826),  279. 

Courtenay  of  Walreddon  (1844),  315, 

Trelawny  of  Trelawne  (1837),  328. 

Hartland  Forest  (1871),  345. 
BREBNER,  Percy  James,  b.  1864. 

The  Brown  Mask  (1910),  329. 
A  Gentleman  of  Virginia  (1910),  363. 
A  Royal  Ward  (1909),  384. 
BREREION,  Captain  F.  S.,  b.  1872. 

Roger  the  Bold  (1906),  291. 
A  Knight  of  St.  John  (1906),  303. 
How  Canada  Was  Won  (1908),  347. 
Jones  of  the  64th  (1907),  374. 


444  SUPPLEMENT. 

BRERETON,  Captain  F.  S. — continued. 
Indian  and  Scout  (1910),  391. 
A  Hero  of  Lucknow  (1905),  392. 
A  Hero  of  Sedan  (1909),  400. 
With  Wolseley  to  Kumasi  (1908),  402. 
With  Shield  and  Assegai  (1900),  403. 
With  Roberts  to  Candahar  (1907),  403. 
BRITTEN,  Frank  Curzon. 

Sir  Roland  Preederoy  (1909),  286. 
BROMBY,  Charles  H. 

Alkibiades  (1905),  241. 
BROOKFIELD,  Frances  M. 

A  Friar  Observant  (1909),  293. 
My  Lord  of  Essex  (1907),  301. 
BROOKS,  Elbridge  S.,  1846-1902. 
Chivalric  Days  (1886)  : — 

The  Favored  of  Baal,  242. 
The  Gage  of  a  Princess,  250. 
The  Tell-Tale  Foot,  257. 
The  Cloister  of  the  Seven  Gates,  280. 
Story  of  the  Field  of  the  Cloth  of  Gold,  295. 
Monsieur  the  Captain  of  the  Caravel,  324. 
The  Little  Lord  of  the  Manor,  359. 
A  Son  of  Issachar  (1890),  244. 
Historic  Boys  (1885) : — 

Marcus  of  Rome,  248. 
Brian  of  Munster,  260. 
Olaf  of  Norway,  261. 
William  of  Normandy,  262. 
Baldwin  of  Jerusalem,  265. 
Frederick  of  Hohenstaufen,  270. 
Harry  of  Monmouth,  281. 
Giovanni  of  Florence,  289. 
IxtliT  of  Tezcuco,  291. 
Louis  of  Bourbon,  322. 
Charles  of  Sweden,  335. 
Van  Rensselaer  of  Rensselaerswyck,  358. 
In  Leisler's  Times  (1886),  335; 
BROOKS,  Mansfield. 

The  Newell  Fortune  (1906),  419. 
BROWN,  Katharine  H. 

Diane  (1904),  393. 
BROWNE,  G.  Waldo. 

With  Rogers'  Rangers  (1906),  347. 
Ruel  Durkee,  Master  of  Men  (1910),  419. 
BRUCE,  R. 

Benbonuna  (1904),  418. 


SUPPLEMENT.  445 


BUCHANAN,  Thompson,  b.  1877. 

Judith  Triumphant  (1905),  240. 
BUCK,  Irving  Ashby. 

Cleburne  and  His  Command  (1909),  396. 
BUCKLEY,  R.  Wallace. 

The  Last  of  the  Houghtons  (1908),  396. 
BULLEN,  Frank  T.,  b.  1857. 

Sea  Puritans  (1904),  321. 

BURCHELL,  S.  H. 

The  Prisoner  of  Carisbrooke  (1904),  314. 

The  Mistress  of  the  Robes  (1905),  337. 
BURNHAM,  Hampden. 

Marcelle  (1905),  334. 
BURTON,  J.  Bloundelle,  b.  1850. 

The  King's  Mignon  (1909),  305. 

Within  Four  Walls  (1909),  308. 

Knighthood's  Flower  (1906),  312. 

Traitor  and  True  (1906),  327. 

The  Sword  of  Gideon  (1905),  336. 

The  Last  of  Her  Race  (1908),  337. 

The  Land  of  Bondage  (1905),  340. 

A  Fair  Martyr  (1910),  350. 

The  Year  One  (1901),  363. 

A  Woman  from  the  Sea  (1907),  364. 
BUTCHER,  Charles  H.,  D.D. 

The  Oriflamme  in  Egypt  (1905),  273. 
BUTTERWORTH,  Hezekiah. 

In  the  Days  of  Jefferson  (1900),  355. 

In  the  Boyhood  of  Lincoln  (1892),  386. 
BY  ATT,  H. 

The  Testament  of  Judas  (1909),  244. 


CABLE,  George  W.,  b.  1844. 

Kincaid's  Battery  (1908),  394. 
CAHUN,  Leon. 

Hassan  le  Janissaire  (1891),  290. 
CAINE,  O.  V. 

The  Coming  of  Navarre  (1909),  305; 

Sons  of  Victory  (1904),  366. 
CALANDRA,  Edoardo,  b.  1852. 

Juliette  (1909),  377. 
CAMPBELL,  A.  Godric. 

Fleur-de-Camp  (1905),  377. 
CAMPBELL,  Gabrielle  Vere. 

The  Sword  Decides  (1908),  277. 


446  SUPPLEMENT. 

CAMPBELL,  Gabrielle  Vere — continued. 

The  Viper  of  Milan  (1906),  278. 
The  Leopard  and  the  Lily  (1909),  284. 
I  Will  Maintain  (1910),  326. 
Defender  of  the  Faith  (1911),  326. 
The  Glen  o'  Weeping  (The  Master  of  Stair)  (1907),  332. 
Black  Magic  (1909),  409. 
CAMPBELL,  Wilfrid. 

Ian  of  the  Orcades  (1906),  280. 
A  Beautiful  Rebel  (1909),  380. 
CANFIELD,  C.  L. 

The  City  of  Six  (1910),  391. 
CAPES,  Bernard. 

Historical  Vignettes  (1910)  : — 
Fair  Rosamond,  267. 
Margaret  of  Anjou,  285; 
The  Prior  of  St.  Come,  287. 
The  Queen's  Nurse,  293. 
Queen  Elizabeth,  307. 
The  King's  Champion,  333. 
Louis  XIV.,  336. 
Captain  Macartney,  337. 
King  Colley,  340. 
George  I.,  340. 

The  Love  Story  of  St.  Bel  (1909),  278. 
A  Jay  of  Italy  (Bembo)  (1905),  287. 
Jemmy  Abercraw  (1910),  346. 
A  Rogue's  Tragedy  (1906),  361. 

The  Extraordinary  Confessions  of  Diana  Please  (1904),  367. 
CAREY,  Wymond. 

Number  One  Hundred  and  One  (1906),  350. 
CARLING,  John  R. 

The  Doomed  City  (1910),  246. 
By  Neva's  Waters  (1908),  376. 
CARPENTER,  Edward  Childs. 

The  Code  of  Victor  Jallot  (1907),  375. 
Captain  Courtesy  (1906),  390. 
CARR,  Kent. 

The  Boy  Bondsman  (1910),  339. 
CARR,  M.  E. 

A  Knight  of  Poland  (1910),  393. 
CARR,  Sarah  Pratt. 

The  Iron  Way  (1907),  398. 
CARREL,  F. 

Marcus  and  Faustina  (190/1),  248. 
CARTER,  Miss  J.  M. 

Diana  Polwarth  (1904),  320. 


SUPPLEMENT.  447 

CASPARI,  Carl  Heinrich. 

The  Schoolmaster  and  His  Son  (c.  1855),  3I2« 
CASTLE,  Agnes  and  Egerton. 

Flower  o'  the  Orange,  &c.  (1908)  : — 

My  Rapier  and  My  Daughter,  301. 
Flower  o'  the  Orange,  384. 

My  Merry  Rockhurst  (1907),  323. 

Incomparable  Bellairs  (1904),  345. 

If  Youth  But  Knew  (1906),  381. 

Wroth  (1908),  384. 

French  Nan  (1905),  413. 
CASTLE,  Egerton,  b.  1858. 

The  Light  of  Scarthey  (1895),  378. 
CATHERWOOD,  Mrs.  Mary  H.,  1847-1902. 

The  Days  of  Jeanne  d'Arc  (1897),  283. 
CHALMERS,  Stephen. 

The  Vanishing  Smuggler  (1910),  415. 
CHAMBERS,  Robert  W.,  b.  1865. 

The  Reckoning  (1905),  359. 

Ailsa  Paige  (1910),  394. 

Special  Messenger  (1909),  397. 
CHAMIER,  Frederick,  1796-1870. 

Ben  Brace  (1836),  367. 
CHANCELLOR,  Louise  Beecher. 

The  Players  of  London  (1909),  302. 
CHARLES,  Mrs.  Rundle,  1828-96. 

Lapsed,  Not  Lost  (Lapsed,  But  Not  Lost)  (1877),  249. 

Attila  and  His  Conqueror  (1894),  252. 

The  Diary  of  Brother  Bartholomew  (c.  1860),  265. 

Joan  the  Maid  (1879),  283. 

Against  the  Stream  (1873),  377* 
CHARLIEU,  H.  de. 

Le  Chevalier  de  Puyjalou  (1905),  341. 
CHESSON,  Nora. 

Father  Felix's  Chronicles  (1907),  281. 
CHETWODE,  R.  D. 

Cuthbert.Lord  of  Lowedale  (The  Lord  of  Lowedale)  ( 1 895) .  304. 
CHURCH,  Rev.  Alfred  J.,  b.  1829. 

The  Crown  of  Pine  (1905),  245. 
CHURCHILL,  Winston,  b.  1871. 

Coniston  (1906),  390. 

"  CLARE,  Austin."     (See  James,  Miss  W.  M.) 
CLARETIE,  Jules,  b.  1840. 

Le  Mariage  d'Agnes  (1907),  401. 
CLARKTIE,  Leo,  b.  1862. 

Cadet-la-Perle  (1908),  311. 

Marie  Petit  (1904),  336. 


448  SUPPLEMENT. 

CLARK,  Alfred. 

Lemuel  of  the  Left  Hand  (1909),  240. 
CLARK,  Charles  Heber,  b.  1851. 

The  Quakeress  (1905),  419. 
CLARK,  Felicia  Buttz. 

The  Cripple  of  Nuremberg  (1900),  295. 

Gigi,  the  Hero  of  Sicily  (1907),  389. 
CLARKE,  Mrs.  Henry  (i.e.  Mrs.  Amy  Clarke). 

Ralph  the  Outlaw  (1908),  273. 

A  Trusty  Rebel  (1905),  289. 

The  Roskerry  Treasure  (1906),  297. 

The  Coplestone  Cousins  (1905),  413. 
CLARKE,  Lawrence. 

Murray  of  the  Scots  Greys  (1906),  340. 
"  CLEEVE,  Lucas."     (See  Kingscote,  Mrs.) 
CLEGHORN,  Sarah  N. 

A  Turnpike  Lady  (1907),  414. 
CLEVELAND,  Treadwell  F.,  b.  1872. 

A  Night  with  Alessandro  (1904),  295. 
CLIMENSON,  Mrs.  Emily  J.,  b.  1844. 

Strange  Adventures  in  the  County  of  Dorset,  A.D.   1747 

(1907),  345- 
COAPE,  H.  C. 

From  the  Enemy's  Hand  (1904),  327. 
COBB,  James  F. 

A  Feast  of  Stories  from  Foreign  Lands  (1895)  : — 
A  Journey  through  the  Air,  295. 
The  Timely  Baron,  376. 
The  Serfs,  376. 
The  Railway  Signalman,  418. 

The  Schoolmaster  and  His  Son  (1888),  312. 

In  Time  of  War  (Workman  and  Soldier)  (1880),  401. 

The  Watchers  on  the  Long  Ships  (1878),  414. 
COBBAN,  J.  Maclaren,  1849-1903. 

The  Red  Sultan  (1893),  354. 
COBBOLD,  Richard,  1797-1877. 

The  History  of  Margaret  Catchpole  (1845),  369. 
COLE,  Sylvester. 

A  Son  of  Navarre  (1911),  294. 
COLERIDGE,  Christabel  R.,  b.  1843. 

Minstrel  Dick  (1896),  277. 

Max,  Fritz,  and  Hob  (1892),  289. 
"  COLLINGWOOD,  Harry  "  (Wm.  J.  C.  Lancaster). 

Across  the  Spanish  Main  (1906),  298. 

A  Middy  of  the  Slave  Squadron  (1910),  385. 

Blue  and  Grey  (1908),  395. 

Under  the  Chilian  Flag  (1908),  403. 


SUPPLEMENT.  449 

COLVILLE,  Harriet  E. 

Life's  Anchor  (1900),  351. 
COMFORT,  B. 

Arnold's  Tempter  (1908),  359. 
COMSTOCK,  Harriet  T. 

The  Queen's  Hostage  (1906),  301. 
COMSTOCK,  Seth  Cook. 

Marcelle  the  Mad  (1906),  287. 
Monsieur  le  Capitaine  Douay  (1904),  303. 
The  Rebel  Prince  (1905),  303. 
"  CONNELL,  F.  Norreys  "  (Conal  O'Connell  O'Riordan),  b.  1874. 

The  Young  Days  of  Admiral  Quilliam  (1906),  372. 
CONRAD,  Joseph,  b.  1857. 

A  Set  of  Six  (1908)  : — 

The  Duel,  377. 
COOKE,  Grace  MacGowan,  b.  1863,  and  Alice  MacGowan,  b.  1858. 

Return  (1905),  347. 
COOKE,  Grace  MacGowan,  and  Annie  Booth  McKinney. 

Mistress  Joy  (1901),  371. 
COOKE,  John  Esten,  1830-86. 

My  Lady  Pokahontas  (1879),  308. 
COOKE,  W.  Bourne,  b.  1869. 

Her  Faithful  Knight  (1908),  314. 
COPUS,  Rev.  J.  E.  (S.J.). 

The  Son  of  Siro  (1909),  247. 
CORELLI,  Marie. 

Barabbas  (1893),  243. 
COSTELLO,  F.  H. 

Nelson's  Yankee  Boy  (1904),  372. 
COTES,  H. 

The  Counterpart  (1909),  397. 
COTTON,  A.  L. 

The  Company  of  Death  (1904),  322. 
COUCH,  Sir  A.  T.  Quiller-,  b.  1863. 

Shakespeare's  Christmas  and  other  Stories  (1905)  : — 
Shakespeare's  Christmas,  302. 
Captain  Wyvern's  Adventures,  317. 
Rain  of  Dollars,  382. 
The  Lamp  and  the  Guitar,  382. 
Frenchman's  Creek,  416. 
Ye  Sexes  give  Ear  !  416. 
Corporal  Sam  and  other  Stories  (1910)  : — 
The  Coper nican  Convoy,  316. 
Red  Velvet,  317. 
Corporal  Sam,  381. 
Fort  Amity  (1904),  348. 
Lady  Good-For-No thing  (1910),  348. 

2  G 


450  SUPPLEMENT. 

COUCH,  Sir  A.  T.  Quiller — continued. 

Sir  John  Constantino  (1906),  349* 

The  Merry  Garden  (1907)  : — 
Hi-Spy-Hi  !  378. 

Poison  Island  (1907),  378. 
COURTNEY,  Etta. 

Checkmate  (1904),  325. 
"  COVERTSIDE,  Naunton."     (See  Davies,  N.) 
COWPER,  Edith  E. 

The  Invaders  of  Fairford  (1907),  316. 

The  House  with  the  Dragon  Gates  (1908),  344. 

The  Moonrakers  (1910),  345. 

Lady  Fabia  (1909),  373- 

Viva  Christina  (1904),  387. 
COWPER,  Frank. 

The  Forgotten  Door  (1907),  246. 
"CRADDOCK,  Charles  Egbert."     (See  Murfree.) 
CRAKE,  Rev.  A.  D. 

JEmilius  (1871),  249. 

The  Victor's  Laurel  (1884),  250. 

Evanus  (1872),  251. 

Stories  from  Old  English  History  (1888)  : — 
The  Fall  of  Anderida,  253. 
The  Childhood  of  Offa,  257. 
The  Avenger  of  Blood,  257. 
The  Story  of  Edgar  and  Elfrida,  260. 
Edward  the  Martyr,  260. 

The  Doomed  City  (1885)   254. 

Stories  of  the  Old  Saints  and  the  Anglo-Saxon  Church 
(1890),  255. 

The  Andreds- weald  (1878),  262. 

Brian  Fitz  Count  (1888),  265. 

The  House  of  Walderne  (1886),  272. 

The  Last  Abbot  of  Glastonbury  (1884),  292. 

The  Heir  of  Treherne  (1890),  292. 

Fairleigh  Hall  (1883),  314. 
CRAKE,  Rev.  E.  E. 

Dame  Joan  of  Pevensey  (1908),  280. 

In  Mortal  Peril  (1908),  301. 

The  Royalist  Brothers  (1908),  318. 

When  the  Puritans  were  in  Power  (1907),  320. 
CRAMP,  Walter  S. 

Psyche  (1905),  243. 
CRANE,  Stephen,  1870-1900,  and  Robert  Barr. 

The  O'Ruddy  (1903),  412. 
CRAWFORD,  F.  Marion,  1854-1909. 

Zoroaster  (1885),  241. 


SUPPLEMENT.  451 

CRAWFORD,  F.  Marion — continued. 

Arethusa  (1907),  278. 

Stradella  (1909),  326. 

CRESPIGNY,  Mrs.  P.  C.  de.     (See  De  Crespigny.) 
CRESWICK,  Paul,  b.  1866. 

With  Richard  the  Fearless  (1904),  268. 
CRIPPS,  Arthur  S. 

Magic  Casements  (1905),  285. 
CROCKETT,  S.  R.,  b.  1860. 

Maid  Margaret  (1905),  283. 

Joan  of  the  Sword  Hand  (1900),  287. 

The  White  Plumes  of  Navarre  (The  White  Plume)  (1906),  304. 

The  Cherry  Ribband  (1905),  331. 

Strong  Mac  (1904),  382. 

The  Silver  Skull  (1901),  385. 

The  Men  of  the  Mountain  (1909),  401. 

The  Grey  Man  (1896),  411. 

The  Dew  of  Their  Youth  (1910),  415. 
CROSFIELD,  H.  C. 

For  Three  Kingdoms  (1909),  332. 
CROSFIELD,  T.  H. 

A  Love  in  Ancient  Days  (1907),  254. 
CROSS,  Myra. 

The  Star  of  Valhalla  (1907),  261. 
CROTTIE,  Julia  M. 

The  Lost  Land  (1901),  414. 
CROUCH,  Arthur  Philip. 

Nellie  of  the  Eight  Bells  (1908),  372. 
CROWLEY,  Mary  Catherine. 

In  Treaty  with  Honor  (1906),  387. 
CULLEN,  William  Robert. 

The  Unwedded  Bride  (1910),  297. 
CULLUM,  Ridgwell. 

The  Watchers  of  the  Plains  (1908),  402. 

CUNNINGHAME,  Alice. 

The  Love  Story  of  Giraldus  (1907),  266. 
CURTIES,  Henry. 

Renee  (1908),  294. 

The  Idol  of  the  King  (1905),  345. 
CURTIS,  A.  C. 

The  Good  Sword  Belgarde  (1908),  269. 
CURTIS,  Alice  Turner. 

Anne  Nelson  (1910),  357. 
CURWOOD,  J.  Oliver. 

The  Courage  of  Captain  Plum  (1908),  391. 
CZAJOWSKI,  Michal  (afterwards  Sadyk  Pasha). 

The  Black  Pilgrim  (c.  1840),  376. 


452  SUPPLEMENT. 

D 

DAHLINGER,  Charles  W. 

Where  the  Red  Volleys  Poured  (1907),  395. 
DAMPIER,  E.  M.  Smith. 

Oil  of  Spikenard  (1911),  412. 
DANE,  Joan. 

Prince  Madog  (1909),  409. 
DARMESTETER,  Madame.     (See  Duclaux.) 
DA  VIES,  Naunton. 

The  King's  Guide  (1901),  272. 
DAVIS,  W.  Stearns  (Professor),  b.  1877. 
A  Victor  of  Salamis  (1907),  241. 
Falaise  of  the  Blessed  Voice  (1904),  273. 
DA  WE,  Carlton,  b.  1865. 

One  Fair  Enemy  (1908),  317. 
The  Life  Perilous  (1907),  350. 
DAWSON,  A.  J.,  b.  1871. 

The  Fortunes  of  Farthings  (1905),  339. 
DEANE,  Mary. 

The  Rose-Spinner  (1904),  340. 
DEARMER,  Mabel. 

The  Orangery  (1904),  414. 
DEBENHAM,  Mary  H. 

Faith's  First  Christmas  and  other  Stories  (1906) 
The  Seed  of  the  Church,  250. 
An  Island  of  the  Blest,  254. 
How  Nechtan  Kept  His  Vow,  254. 
Into  the  Dark,  256. 
The  Coming  of  the  King,  256. 
The  Battle  in  the  West,  256. 
The  Lark's  Carol,  256. 
The  Queen's  Ferry,  263. 
The  Witch  of  Huntingdon,  268. 
Seven  Champions,  328. 
Honour  Before  Honours,  328. 
A  Fair  Haven  and  other  Stories  (1909)  :  — 
The  King's  House,  252. 
How  the  King  passed  by,  259. 
A  Good  Shepherd,  262. 
Alan's  Vow,  269. 
For  Church  and  State,  269. 
A  Master  Builder,  280. 
Clean  Hands,  293. 
A  Fair  Haven,  310. 
In  the  Western  Woods,  338. 


SUPPLEMENT.  453 

DEBENHAM,  Mary  H. — continued. 

The  Shepherd  Prior  and  other  Stories  (1907)  : — 

The  Easter  Victory,  252. 

The  Great  Handwriting,  253. 

An  Angel  Unawares,  254. 

After  Many  Days,  254. 

The  Shepherd  Prior,  256. 

The  Painter's  Message,  256. 

An  Ascensiontide  Dream,  257. 

A  Saxon  Whom  the  Normans  Loved,  263. 

The  Stranger  Whom  England  Loved,  264. 

The  Lady  Alda's  Pilgrimage,  276. 
The  Peace  of  the  Church  and  other  Stories  (1908)  : — 

The  Peace  of  the  Church,  254. 

What  Ercongeta  Saw,  256. 

A  Fisher  of  Men,  256. 

The  Angel  of  the  Fen,  257. 

The  Open  Window,  257. 

The  Way  of  Service,  258. 

The  Ealdorman's  Story,  260. 

The  Straight  Road,  266. 

The  King's  Business,  266. 

A  Friar  of  Orders  Grey,  272. 

Writer  and  Fighter,  272. 
Stars  in  the  Twilight  (1910),  251. 
The  Star  in  the  West  (1904),  253. 
Keepers  of  England  (1900),  259. 
Conan  the  Wonder- Worker  (1902),  260. 
A  Goodly  Pearl  (1905),  263. 
A  Royal  Road  (1909),  272. 
'Twixt  Old  and  New  (1907),  278. 
Moor  and  Moss  (1892),  294. 
The  Mavis  and  the  Merlin  (1895),  303. 
Fairmeadows  Farm  (1890),  329. 
A  Little  Candle  (1890),  332. 
The  Laird's  Legacy  (1896),  337. 
Mistress  Phil  (1891),  345. 
A  Flood  Tide  (1905),  351. 
My  God-Daughter  (1893),  352. 
For  King  and  Home  (1891),  363. 
Sowing  and  Harvesting  (1899),  365. 
Hilda  Brave-Heart  (1895),  408. 
The  Waterloo  Lass  (1901),  416. 
DE  CRESPIGNY,  Mrs.  Philip  Champion. 
The  Grey  Domino  (1906),  306. 
The  Rose  Brocade  (1905),  339. 
The  Spanish  Prisoner  (1907),  374. 


454  SUPPLEMENT. 

DEEPING,  Warwick,  b.  1877. 

The  Red  Saint  (1909),  272. 

Bertrand  of  Brittany  (1908),  277. 

Mad  Barbara  (1908),  324. 

The  Lame  Englishman  (1910),  389. 

The  Seven  Streams  (1905),  409. 

Love  Among  the  Ruins  (1904),  409. 

Bess  of  the  Woods  (1906),  413. 
DE  HAVEN,  Audrey. 

The  Scarlet  Cloak  (1908),  355. 
DE  LEON,  T.  Cooper. 

Crag-Nest  (1910),  398. 
DEMOLDER,  Eugene. 

Le  Jardinier  de  la  Pompadour  (1904),  351. 
DE  MORGAN,  John. 

A  Yankee  Ship  and  a  Yankee  Crew  (1909),  379. 
DE  MORGAN,  William,  b.  1839. 

An  Affair  of  Dishonour  (1910),  323. 

Joseph  Vance  (1906),  418. 
DE  TRUEBA,  D.  Antonio. 

The  Cid  Campeador  (1861),  408. 
DEVEREUX,  William,  and  S.  Lovell. 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh  (Raleigh)  (1909),  300. 
DICKSON,  Harris,  b.  1868. 

Gabrielle  Transgressor  (1906),  412. 
DILL,  Bessie. 

The  Silver  Glen  (1909),  339. 

My  Lady  Nan  (1907),  414. 
DILLON,  Mrs.  Mary  C.  Johnson. 

The  Rose  of  Old  St.  Louis  (1904),  375. 

The  Patience  of  John  Morland  (1909),  386. 

In  Old  Bellaire  (1906),  395. 
Dix,  Beulah  Marie,  b.  1876 

Merry  lips  (1906),  314. 

The  Fair  Maid  of  Greystones  (1905),  318. 
DIXON,  Jun.,  Thomas,  b.  1864! 

The  Clansman  (1905),  398. 

The  Leopard's  Spots  (1902),  398. 

The  Traitor  (1907),  398. 
DIXON,  W.  Wilmott. 

The  Rogues  of  Rye  (1909),  373. 
DOBSON,  A.  Mary  R. 

Earl  Osric's  Minstrel  (1908),  409. 
DODD,  Annie  Bowman. 

On  the  Knees  of  the  Gods  (1908),  241. 
DONALDSON,  J.  W. 

The  Conversion  of  St.  Vladimir  (c.  1860),  260. 


SUPPLEMENT.  455 

DONALDSON,  J.  W. — continued. 

The  Northern  Light  (c.  1860),  261. 

The  Cross  in  Sweden  (c.  1860),  264. 
DON-CARLOS,  Cooke. 

A  Bottle  in  the  Smoke  (1908),  267. 
"  DONOVAN,  Dick."     (See  Muddock.) 
"  DOUGLAS,  Theo."     (See  Everett,  Mrs.  H.  D.) 
DOYLE,  Sir  A.  Conan,  b.  1859. 

The  Home  Coming  (1909),  253. 

Sir  Nigel  (1906),  276. 
DRUMMOND,  Hamilton,  b.  1857. 

The  Justice  of  the  King  (1911),  288. 

The  King's  Scapegoat  (1905),  288. 

The  Cuckoo  (1906),  296. 

Shoes  of  Gold  (1909),  354. 
Du  Bois,  Mary  Constance,  b.  1879. 

Elinor  Arden,  Royalist  (1904),  314. 
DUCLAUX,  Madame  (formerly  Madame  Darmesteter),  b.  1857. 

A  Mediaeval  Garland  (1892),  410. 
DUNN,  Byron  A. 

The  Young  Kentuckians  Series  : — 

General  Nelson's  Scout  (1898),  395. 
On  General  Thomas's  Staff  (1899),  395. 
Battling  for  Atlanta  (1900),  395. 
From  Atlanta  to  the  Sea  (1901),  395. 
Raiding  with  Morgan  (1903),  395. 

DURRANT,  W.  Scott. 

Cross  and  Dagger  (1910),  270. 
DUIT,  Romesh  C.,  b.  1848. 

The  Slave  Girl  of  Agra  (1909),  306. 
DYKE,  G.  Connock. 

The  Betrayal  of  Mistress  Donis  (1906),  303. 

E 

EATON,  Paul  W. 

The  Treasure  (1909),  380. 
ECCOTT,  W.  J. 

A  Demoiselle  of  France  (1910),  327. 

His  Indolence  of  Arras  (1905),  327. 

The  Red  Neighbour  (1908),  327. 

Fortune's  Castaway  (1904),  329. 

The  Hearth  of  Hutton  (1906),  343. 
EDES,  Dr.  Robert  Thaxter. 

Parson  Gay's  Three  Sermons  (1908),  347. 
EDGEWORTH,  Maria,  1767-1849. 

Waste  Not,  Want  Not  (1796),  414. 


456  SUPPLEMENT. 

EDWARDS,  M.  Betham,  b.  1836. 

A  Suffolk  Courtship  (1900),  418. 
EGGLESTON,  George  Gary,  b.  1839. 

Long  Knives  (1907),  359. 

Two  Gentlemen  of  Virginia  (1908),  393. 

The  Warrens  of  Virginia  (1908).  396. 

A  Daughter  of  the  South  (1905),  398. 

Westover  of  Wanalah  (1910),  419. 

Evelyn  Byrd  (1904),  419. 

Love  is  the  Sum  of  it  All  (1907),  419. 
ELLIS,  Edward  S.,  b.  1840. 

The  Cromwell  of  Virginia  (1904),  326. 

The  Last  Emperor  of  the  Old  Dominion  (1905),  326. 

Pontiac,  Chief  of  the  Ottawas  (1897),  349. 

Patriot  and  Tory  (1904),  357 

Fire,  Snow,  and  Water  (1908),  420. 
ELLIS,  Elizabeth. 

The  King's  Spy  (The  Girl  Who  Won)  (1910),  333. 

Madame  Will  You  Walk  (1905),  337. 

The  Moon  of  Bath  (The  Fair  Moon  of  Bath)  (1907),  343. 
ELLIS,  J.  Breckenridge,  b.  1870. 

Adnah  (1902),  243. 

The  Soul  of  a  Serf  (1910),  255. 
ELRINGTOK,  Miss  H. 

A  Story  of  Ancient  Wales  (1900),  245. 

The  Luck  of  Chervil  (1908),  286. 

The  Schoolboy  Outlaws  (1905),  417. 
EVERARD,  William. 

Sir  Walter's  Ward  (1888),  271. 
EVERETT,  Mrs.  H.  D. 

A  White  Witch  (1908),  344. 

Golden  Trust  (1905),  363. 

Miss  Caroline  (1904),  414. 

Cousin  Hugh  (1910),  416. 

F 
FARNOL,  Jeffery. 

The  Broad  Highway  (1910),  417. 
FARRER,  Reginald. 

The  Anne-Queen's  Chronicle  (1909),  293. 
FEA,  Allen,  b.  1860. 

My  Lady  Wentworth  (1909),  329. 
FENN,  George  Manville,  1831-1909. 

Marcus  or  the  Young  Centurion  (1904),  242. 

Frank  and  Saxon  (1897),  305. 

'Tention  (1906),  381. 

Dick  o'  the  Fenns  (1887).  415. 


SUPPLEMENT.  457 

FERGUSSON,  R.  Menzies. 

The  Silver  Shoe-Buckle  (1909), '339. 
FERRAR,  William  John. 

The  Fall  of  the  Grand  Sarrasin  (1905),  262. 
FERRYMAN,  Lieut.-Colonel  A.  F.  Mockler,  b.  1856. 

Lads  of  the  Light  Division  (1909),  381. 
FIELD,  Mrs.  E.  M.,  b.  1856 

At  the  King's  Right  Hand,  (1904),  259. 

Little  Count  Paul  (1894),  361. 

Bryda  (1888),  392. 
FILON.  Augustin,  b.  1841. 

Renegat  (1894),  299. 

FlNDLAY,  J.  T. 

The  Chosen  (1905),  414. 
FINLAY,  Rev.  T.  A.  (S.J.) 
^_^         The  Chances  of  War  (1877),  316. 

FlNNEMORE,  John. 

A  Captive  of  the  Corsairs  (1906),  303. 

The  Red  Men  of  the  Dusk  (1899),  321. 

In  the  Trenches  (1904),  392. 
FITCHETT,  W.  H. 

A  Pawn  in  the  Game  (1908),  365. 

The  Commander  of  the  Hirondelie  (1904)^  366. 
FITZGERALD,  Ena. 

The  Witch  Queen  of  Khem  (1909),  239. 

Patcola  (1908),  280. 
FITZGERALD,  Percy  H.,  b.  1834. 

Josephine's  Troubles  (1907),  399. 
FITZHUGH,  Percy  K. 

The  Galleon  Treasure  (1908),  335. 
FLAUBERT,  Gustave,  1821-80. 

Herodias  (1877),  244. 
FLETCHER,  J.  S.,  b.  1863. 

In  the  Days  of  Drake  (1896),  299. 

David  March  (1904),  325. 
FLOYER,  Edith  S. 

The  Young  Huguenots  (1879),  335. 
FOA,  Madame  Eugenie. 

Contes  Historiques  (1840)  : — 

Bertrand  Duguesclin,  275. 
Un  Grand  Chagrin,  341. 
Jean-Baptiste  Greuze,  Peintre,  350. 
Andre-Ernest-Modeste  Gretry,  Musicien,  350. 
Guillaume  Dupuytren,  354. 

Monsieur  the  Captain  of  the  Caravel  (1840),  324. 
FOGAZZARO,  Antonio,  b.  1848. 

The  Patriot  (1896),  389. 


458  SUPPLEMENT. 

FOOTE,  Mary  Hallock. 

The  Royal  Americans  (1910),  348. 
FORBES,  Lady  Helen. 

His  Eminence  (1904),  366. 
FORBES,  Hon.  Mrs.  Walter  R.  D. 

Leroux  (1908),  366. 
FORESTER,  F.  B. 

Hostage  for  a  Kingdom  (1907),  401. 
FORMAN,  Justus  M. 

The  Island  of  Enchantment  (1905),  277. 
FORMONT,  Maxime. 

La  Princesse  de  Venise  (1909),  306. 
FORREST,  Joshua  Rhodes. 

The  Student  Cavaliers  (1908),  397. 
FORSTER,  R.  H.,  b.  1857. 

The  Mistress  of  Aydon  (1907),  277. 

Harry  of  Athol  (1909),  281. 

In  Steel  and  Leather  (1904),  286. 

The  Arrow  of  the  North  (1906),  294. 

Midsummer  Morn  (1911),  302. 

A  Jacobite  Admiral  (1908),  339. 

Strained  Allegiance  (1905),  339. 
FOSTER,  A.  J. 

Amp  thill  Towers  (1895),  292. 

FOSTER,  Frances  G.  Knowles.     (See  Knowles-Foster.) 
FOTHERINGHAME,  Josephine. 

Sir  Valdemar  the  Ganger  (1905),  273. 
Fox,  Frances  Margaret. 

Carlota  (1907),  390. 
Fox,  Marion. 

The  Seven  Nights  (1910),  279. 

The  Hand  of  the  North  (1910),  307. 
"  FRANCE,  Anatole."     (See  Thibault.) 
"  FRANCIS,  M.  E."     (See  Blundell,  Mrs.) 
FRASER,  Mrs.  Hugh. 

In  the  Shadow  of  the  Lord  (1906),  346. 

Gianella  (1909),  418. 
FREAR,  Robert  Louis. 

Nancy  Hart  (1908),  357. 
FREJAC,  Ed.  de. 

La  Fin  de  Tadmor  (1908),  249. 
FRENCH,  Allen,  b.  1870. 

The  Story  of  Rolf  and  the  Viking's  Bow  (1904),  261. 

Sir  Marrok  (1902),  408. 
FRENSSEN,  Gustav,  b.  1863. 

Jorn  Uhl  (1901),  400. 

The  Three  Comrades  (1898),  400. 


SUPPLEMENT.  459 


FRESHFIELD,  F.  H. 

At  All  Hazards  (1910),  329. 
FROST,  T.  G. 

The  Man  of  Destiny  (1909),  389. 
FROTHINGHAM,  Jessie  Peabody. 

Running  the  Gauntlet  (1906),  395. 
FULLER,  Robert  H. 

The  Golden  Hope  (1905),  242. 
FULTON,  D.  Kerr. 

The  Witch's  Sword  (1908),  294. 


GALE,  Oliver  Marble,  and  Harriet  Wheeler. 

A  Knight  of  the  Wilderness  (1909),  387. 
GALLIZIER,  Nathan,  b.  1866. 

The  Sorceress  of  Rome  (1907),  261. 

Castel  Del  Monte  (1905),  274. 

The  Court  of  Lucifer  (1910),  290. 
GARDINER,  Samuel  M. 

Lux  Crucis  (1904),  247. 
GARDNER,  Chris  G. 

Dudley  Castle  (1904),  275. 
GARNETT,  Mrs.  R.  S. 

The  Infamous  John  Friend  (1909),  374. 
GASIOROWSKI,  Waclaw  (Count  Jozef  I.  T.  Grabowski). 

Napoleon's  Love  Story  (1903),  376. 
GASKELL,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  C.,  1810-65. 

Sylvia's  Lovers  (1863),  368. 
GASPE,  Philippe  Aubert  de. 

Cameron  of  Lochiel  (1877),  347. 
GAY,  Florence. 

The  Druidess  (1908),  254. 
GAY,  Geraldine  M. 

The  Astrologer's  Daughter  (1906),  241. 

A  King's  Thegn  (1900),  258. 
GAY,  Maude  Clark. 

The  Knitting  of  the  Souls  (1904),  326. 
GEBHART,  Emile. 

Autour  d'une  Tiare  (1894),  264. 
GEE,  Annie  L. 

The  Victory  that  Overcometh  (1898),  251. 

Through  the  Door  of  Hope  (1900),  259. 

Won — Not  by  Might  (1902),  265. 
"  GERARD,  Morice  "  (Rev.  J.  J.  Teague),  b.  1856. 

The  King's  Signet  (1909),  320. 

Purple  Love  (1908),  326. 


460  SUPPLEMENT. 

"  GERARD,  Morice  " — continued. 

The  Adventures  of  an  Equerry  (1905),  326. 

The  Red  Seal  (1906),  330. 

The  Broken  Sword  (1910),  331. 

Check  to  the  King  (1906),  331. 

Rose  of  Blenheim  (1907),  336. 

A  Fair  Refugee  (1909),  365. 

A  Gentleman  of  London  (1908),  373. 
"  GERRARE,  Wirt."     (See  Greener,  \V.) 
GIEERNE,  Agnes. 

Under  Puritan  Rule  (1909),  320. 
GIBSON,  C. 

The  Refugee  (1910),  365. 
GIFFORD,  Evelyn  H. 

Provenzano  the  Proud  (1904),  274. 
GILBERT,  George. 

To  My  King  Ever  Faithful  (1909),  369. 
GILKES,  A.  H. 

Four  Sons  (1909),  241. 
GILSON,  Captain  Charles. 

The  Lost  Empire  (1909),  366. 

The  Spy  :  a  Story  of  the  Peninsular  JWar:(  1910),  382. 
GISSING,  George,  1857-1903. 

Veranilda  (1904),  253. 
GISSINGHAM,  James. 

For  Prince  or  Pope  (1910),  331. 
COLORING,  Maude. 

Dean's  Hall  (1908),  413. 
GOODWIN,  Maud  Wilder,  b.  1856. 

Veronica  Playfair  (1909),  340. 
GORDON,  Colonel  H.  R. 

Black  Partridge  (1908),  380. 
GOULD,  S.  Baring,  b.  1834. 

In  Dewisland  (1904),  388. 
COWING,  Mrs.  Aylmer. 

By  Thames  and  Tiber  (1903),  246. 
GRAYDON,  W.  Murray. 

The  Fighting  Lads  of  Devon  (1910),  300. 

With  Musketeer  and  Redskin  (With  Puritan  and  Pequot) 

(1904),  311. 
GREEN,  E.  Everett,  b.  1856. 

The  Children's  Crusade  (1905),  270. 

In  Northern  Seas  (1906),  275. 

A  Heroine  of  France  (1907),  283. 

The  Secret  Chamber  at  Chad  (1909),  289. 

Evil  May-Day  (1893),  292. 

For  the  Faith  (1908),  292. 


SUPPLEMENT.  461 

GREEN,  E.  Everett — continued. 

The  Church  and  the  King  (1892),  293. 

Under  Two  Queens  (1904),  297. 

Loyal  Hearts  and  True  (1891),  300. 

The  Faith  of  Hilary  Lovel  (1904),  300. 

Cowrie's  Vengeance  (1908),  307. 

Ruth  Ravelstan  (1908),  320. 

A  Lad  of  London  Town  (1909),  323. 

The  Sign  of  the  Red  Cross  (1897),  324. 

French  and  English  (1899),  347. 

Knights  of  the  Road  (1908),  352. 

The  Defence  of  the  Rock  (1907),  352. 

Ringed  by  Fire  (1905),  400. 
GREENE,  Homer. 

A  Lincoln  Conscript  (1909),  395. 
GREENER,  William. 

The  Men  of  Harlech  (1896),  285. 
GREGG,  Hilda,  b.  1868. 

The  Great  Proconsul  (1904),  353. 

A  Young  Man  Married  (1909),  382. 

The  Path  to  Honour  (1909),  388. 
GRESLEY,  W. 

The  Forest  of  Arden  (1840),  292. 

The  Siege  of  Lichrield  (1840),  316. 
GREVILLE,  Beatrice  Violet  (Baroness  Greville). 

The  Fighters  (1907),  382. 
GREY,  Cyril. 

For  Crown  and  Covenant  (1902),  331. 

The  Lost  Earldom  (1905),  331. 
GRIBBLE,  Francis. 

The  Dream  of  Peace  (1904),  401. 
"  GRIER,  Sydney  C."     (See  Gregg,  H.) 
GRIFFIN,  E.  Aceituna. 

A  Servant  of  the  King  (1906),  310. 
GRIFFIS,  William  Elliot. 

The  Pathfinders  of  the  Revolution  (1900),  359. 
GRIFFITH,  George. 

John  Brown  Buccaneer  (1908),  308. 

The  Knights  of  the  White  Rose  (1897),  332. 
GRIFFITHS,  Major  Arthur,  b.  1838. 

Thrice  Captive  (1908),  337. 

A  Royal  Rascal  (1905),  370. 
GRIFFITHS,  D.  Ryles. 

Elgiva  (1901),  262. 
GRINDROD,  C.  F. 

The  Shadow  of  the  Ragged  Stone  (1908),  266. 


462  SUPPLEMENT. 

GROGAN,  Walter  E. 

The  King's  Cause  (1909),  318. 
GULL,  Cyril  Ranger  ("  Guy  Thome  "),  b.  1875, 

House  of  Torment  (1911),  297. 
GUNN,  John. 

Sons  of  the  Vikings  (1909),  378. 
GUNTER,  A.  C.,  b.  1907. 

The  Conscience  of  a  King  (1903),  335, 

'Twixt  Sword  and  Glove  (1907),  336. 

The  Sword  in  the  Air  (1904),  388. 

The  Spy  Company  (1903),  390. 
GUTHRIE,  K.  M. 

The  Glassmakcr  of  Yarmouth  (1905),  37 
GWYNN,  Stephen,  b.  1864. 

Robert  Emmet  (1909),  374. 

H 

HAGGARD,  H.  Rider,  b.  1856. 

The  Brethren  (1904),  267. 

Fair  Margaret  (1907),  288. 

The  Lady  of  Blossholme  (1909),  293. 

Morning  Star  (1910),  408. 

Eric  Brighteyes  (1891),  408. 
HALES,  A.  G. 

Maid  Molly  (1907),  317. 

The  Watcher  on  the  Tower  (1904),  382. 
HALL,  H.  R. 

Days  before  History  (1907),  407. 
HALL,  Marie. 

Andrew  Marvell  and  His  Friends  (1875),  310 
HAMILTON,  Eugene  Lee. 

The  Romance  of  the  Fountain  (1905),  290. 
HAMILTON,  John  A. 

Captain  John  Lister  (1906),  314. 
HAMILTON,  Captain  Rowan. 

The  Second  Answer  (1908),  383. 
HANCOCK,  Albert  E.,  b.  1870. 

Bronson  of  the  Rabble  (1909),  381. 
HANCOCK,  S. 

The  Cruise  of  the  Golden  Fleece  (1909),  297 
HANSON,  Joseph  Mills. 

With  Sully  into  the  Sioux  Land  (1910),  398. 
HARDY,  Thomas,  b.  1840. 

The  Trumpet-Major  (1880),  373. 
"  HARE,  Chiistopher  "  (Mrs.  Andrews). 

Felicita  (1904),  277. 

In  the  Straits  of  Time  (1904),  327. 


SUPPLEMENT.  463 

HARRIS,  Joel  Chandler,  b.  1848. 

A  Little  Union  Scout  (1904),  398. 
HARRISON,  Constance  Gary. 

The  Carlyles  (1905),  398. 
HARRISON,  Frederick. 

De  Montfort's  Squire  (1909),  272. 

"  1779."     A  Story  of  Old  Shoreham  (1899),  352 . 

England  Expects  (1904),  372. 

From  Playground  to  Battlefield  (1901),  383. 
HARRISON,  F.  Bayford. 

Brothers-in-Arms  (1885),  267. 

"  HARROD,  Frances."     (See  Robertson,  Frances  Forbes.) 
HART,  Jerome. 

The  Vigilante  Girl  (1910),  418. 
HART,  J.  Wesley. 

In  the  Iron  Time  (1907),  315. 
HART,  Lucie  M.  ("  Lucilla  "). 

The  Secret  of  the  Golden  Key  (1908),  305. 
HARTLEY,  M. 

Beyond  Man's  Strength  (1909),  388. 
HARTLEY,  Percy  J. 

My  Lady  of  Cleeve  (1908),  333. 
HAWTREY  Valentina. 

Suzanne  (1906),  279. 

Perronelle  (1904),  281. 
HAY,  Agnes  Grant. 

Malcolm  Canmore's  Pearl  (1907),  263 
HAY,  Marie  (Baroness  Hindenburg). 

The  Winter  Queen  (1910),  309. 
HAYDON,  A.  L. 

With  Pizarro  the  Conquistador  (1904),  291. 

A  Desperate  Venture  (1909),  363. 
HAYENS,  Herbert,  b.  1861. 

The  Bravest  Gentleman  in  France  (1908),  311. 

For  Rupert  and  the  King  (1910),  315. 

My  Sword's  My  Fortune  (1904),  322. 

The  Red  Caps  of  Lyons  (1909),  363. 

A  Captain  of  Irregulars  (1900),  385. 

In  the  Grip  of  the  Spaniard  (1899),  385. 

The  Tiger  of  the  Pampas  (1907),  386. 

The  British  Legion  (1900),  387. 

Clevely  Sahib  (1897),  388. 

Red,  White,  and  Green  (1901),  389. 

One  of  the  Red  Shirts  (1901),  389. 

Under  the  Lone  Star  (1906),  391. 

The  President's  Scouts  (1904),  391. 


464  SUPPLEMENT. 

HAVENS,  Herbert — continued. 

A  Fighter  in  Green  (1906).  392. 

A  Vanished  Nation  (1899),  393. 

Paris  at  Bay  (1897),  401. 
HAYES,  F.  W. 

The  Shadow  of  a  Throne  (1904),  364. 

Captain  Kirke  Webbe  (1907),  382. 
HAZELTON,  Jun.,  George  C. 

Mistress  Nell  (1901),  324. 

The  Raven  (1909),  387. 
HEKKING,  Avis. 

In  Search  of  Jehanne  (1907),  305. 
HENDERSON,  R.  W.  Wright. 

John  Goodchild  (1909),  388. 
HENTY,  G.  A.,  1832-1902. 

The  Cat  of  Bubastes  (1889),  239. 

The  Young  Carthaginian  (1887),  242. 

For  the  Temple  (1888),  246. 

Winning  His  Spurs  (1882),  267. 

A  Knight  of  the  White  Cross  (1896),  286. 

Under  Drake's  Flag  (1883),  299. 

St.  Bartholomew's  Eve  (1894),  304. 

Friends  Though  Divided  (1883),  315. 

When  London  Burned  (1895),  324. 

Orange  and  Green  (1888),  332. 

Bonnie  Prince  Charlie  (1888),  341. 

With  Wolfe  in  Canada  (1887),  348. 

Held  Fast  for  England  (1892),  352. 

True  to  the  Old  Flag  (1885),  356. 

In  the  Reign  of  Terror  (1896),  362. 

No  Surrender  (1900),  364. 

By  Conduct  and  Courage  (1905),  366. 

At  Aboukir  and  Acre  (1899),  367. 

The  Tiger  of  Mysore  (1896),  370. 

A  Roving  Commission  (1900),  370. 

At  the  Point  of  the  Bayonet  (1902),  374. 

Through  the  Fray  (1886),  378. 

The  Young  Buglers  (1880),  381. 

With  Cochrane  the  Dauntless  (1897),  385. 

In  Greek  Waters  (1893),  385. 

On  the  Irrawaddy  (1897),  386. 

With  the  British  Legion  (1903),  387. 

Through  the  Sikh  War  (1894),  388. 

Maori  and  Settler  (1897),  393. 

The  Young  Franctireurs  (1872),  400. 

By  Sheer  Pluck  (1884),  402. 


SUPPLEMENT.  465 

HENTY,  G.  A. — continued. 

For  Name  and  Fame  (1899),  403. 
HERVEY,  Maurice  H. 

Amyas  Egerton,  Cavalier  (1896),  315. 
HEWETT,  George. 

In  Nelson's  Day  (1891),  371. 
HEWLETT,  Maurice,  b.  1861. 

Fond  Adventures  (1905)  : — 
The  Heart's  Key,  271. 
Brazenhead  the  Great,  285. 
Buondelmonte's  Saga,  409. 
The  Love  Chase,  410. 

The  Stooping  Lady  (1907),  378. 

The  Spanish  Jade  (1908),  392. 

The  Fool  Errant  (1905),  411. 
HEYGATE,  W.  E. 

The  Cave  in  the  Hills  (c.  1860),  251. 

The  Penitent  (c.  1860),  252. 

The  Alleluia  Battle  (c.  1860),  252. 

The  Fugitive  (c.  1860),  254. 

The  Rivals  (c.  1860),  255. 

The  Black  Danes  (c.  1860),  259. 

The  Forsaken  (c.  1860),  260. 

Aubrey  de  1'Orme  (c.  1860),  264. 

Walter  the  Armourer  (c.  1860),  269. 

Alice  of  Fobbing  (c.  1860),  279. 

Agnes  Martin  (c.  1860),  292. 

The  Scholar  and  the  Trooper  (1858),  316. 
HILL,  William  K. 

Under  Three  Kings  (1907),  328. 
"  HILLIERS,  Ashton  "  (Henry  M.  Wallis.) 

As  it  Happened  (1909),  353. 

Memoirs  of  a  Person  of  Quality  (Fanshawe  of  the  Fifth) 
(1907),  368. 

The  Master  Girl  (1910),  407. 
HINKSON,  H.  A. 

The  Splendid  Knight  (1905),  300. 

The  King's  Liege  (1909),  310. 
HOBBS,  R.  R. 

The  Court  of  Pilate  (1907),  247. 
HOCKING,  Joseph. 

The  Sword  of  the  Lord  (1909),  290. 

The  Coming  of  the  King  (1904),  323. 

The  Chariots  of  the  Lord  (1905),  330. 

Roger  Trewinion  (1905),  413. 
HOCHWALT,  Albert  F. 

Arrows  of  Ambition  (1907),  313. 

2  H 


466  SUPPLEMENT. 

HODGETTS,  J.  F. 

Edwin  the  Boy  Outlaw  (1887),  268. 

Harold  the  Boy  Earl  (1888),  408. 
HOLLIS,  Gertrude. 

Leo  of  Mediolanum  (1909),  252. 

Dolphin  of  the  Sepulchre  (1906),  266. 

Between  Two  Crusades  (1908),  267. 

A  Slave  of  the  Saracen  (1905),  273. 

Hugh  the  Messenger  (1905),  276. 

Philip  Okeover's  Pagehood  (1907),  279. 

Jenkyn  Clyffe,  Bedesman  (1910),  282. 

The  King  who  was  never  Crowned  (1904),  286. 

Two  Dover  Boys  (1910),  294. 

The  Pearl  Fishers  (1908),  296. 
HOLMES,  F.  M. 

Brave  Sidney  Somers  (1910),  306. 
HOLT,  Emily. 

The  Slave  Girl  of  Pompeii  (1887),  247. 

The  Way  of  the  Cross  (1883),  248. 

Imogen  (1876),  255. 

Behind  the  Veil  (1890),  263. 

One  Snowy  Night  (1893),  266. 

Princess  Adelaide  (1894),  273. 

A  Forgotten  Hero  (Not  For  Him)  (1883),  275. 

The  White  Lady  of  Hazelwood  (1891),  278. 

Under  One  Sceptre  (The  Lord  of  the  Marches)  (1884),  280 

Mistress  Margery  (1868),  281. 
HOOD,  Alexander  Nelson. 

Tales  of  Old  Sicily  (1906),  241. 

Adria :  a  Tale  of  Venice  (1904),  389. 
HOPE,  Miss  Graham. 

The  Gage  of  Red  and  White  (1904),  296. 

The  Lady  of  Lyte  (1905),  325. 
HORNE,  Roland. 

The  Lion  of  De  Montfort  (1909),  272. 
HORSLEY,  Reginald. 

In  the  Grip  of  the  Hawk  (1907),  393. 
HORTON,  S. 

For  King  or  Parliament  (1909),  317. 
HOUGH,  Emerson,  b.  1857. 

50-40  or  Fight  (1900),  390. 

The  Way  of  a  Man  (1907),  419. 
HOWELL,  Constance. 

Married  in  India  (1910),  420. 
HUBBARD,  Lindley  Murray. 

An  Express  of  '76  (1907),  357. 


SUPPLEMENT.  467 

HUGH,  Ricarda. 

Die  Verteidigung  Roms  (1906),  389. 
HUDSON,  C.  B. 

The  Crimson  Conquest  (1908),  291. 
HUEFFER,  Ford  Madox. 

The  Fifth  Queen  (1906),  293. 

Privy  Seal  (1907),  293. 

The  Fifth  Queen  Crowned  (1908),  294. 

The  "  Half  Moon  "  (1909),  307. 

The  Portrait  (1910),  412. 
HUNTER,  P.  Hay. 

Bible  and  Sword  (1904),  331. 

HUNTINGTON,  H.  S. 

His  Majesty's  Sloop  Diamond  Rock  (1904),  371. 
HUTTON,  Edward,  b.  1875. 

Sigismondo  Pandolfo  Malatesta  (1906),  284. 
HYNE,  C.  J.  Cutcliffe,  b.  1866. 

Prince  Rupert  the  Buccaneer  (1901),  321. 

Sandy  Carmichael  (1908),  343. 

I 
IDDESLEIGH,  Earl  of,  b.  1845. 

lone  Chaloner  (1909),  342. 
INCHBOLD,  A.  C. 

Phantasma  (1906),  366. 
INGRAHAM,  J.  A. 

Prince  of  the  House  of  David  (1855),  247. 
INMAN,  H.  Escott. 

Wulnoth  the  Wanderer  (1908),  259. 
INNES,  J.  W.  Brodie. 

For  the  Soul  of  a  Witch  (1910),  294. 
INNES,  Norman. 

My  Lady's  Kiss  (1908),  312. 

Parson  Croft  (1907),  338. 

The  Lonely  Guard  (1908),  350. 

The  Surge  of  War  (1906),  350. 
IRWIN,  H.  C. 

With  Sword  and  Pen  (1904),  392. 
ISHAM,  Frederick  S.,  b.  1866. 

The  Lady  of  the  Mount  (1908),  361. 

Black  Friday  (1904),  399. 

J 

JACOB,  Violet  (Mrs.  Arthur  Jacob). 

The  Interloper  (1904),  415. 

The  History  of  Aythan  Waring  (1908),  417. 
JAMES,  Miss  W.  M. 

Court  Cards  (1904),  302. 


468  SUPPLEMENT. 

JEANS,  A. 

The  Stronger  Wings  (1909),  389. 
JENNINGS,  Edward  W. 

Under  the  Pompadour  (1907),  351. 
JENSEN,  W.,  b.  1837. 

Deutsche  Manner  (1909),  376. 
JEWELL,  M.  H.  Abraham. 

Glenith  (1908),  352. 
JOHNSON,  Henry. 

Untrue  to  His  Trust  (1886),  322. 
JOHNSON,  Owen. 

Nicole  (In  the  Name  of  Liberty)  (1905).  363. 
JOHNSON,  W.  H. 

Sir  Galahad  of  New  France  (1905),  296. 
JOHNSTON,  Mrs.  A.  F. 

Joel :  a  Boy  of  Galilee  (1895),  247. 
JOHNSTON,  Mary,  b.  1870. 

Lewis  Rand  (1908),  375. 

The  Long  Roll  (1911),  396. 
J6KAI,  Maurus,  1825-1904. 

A  Christian,  but  a  Roman  (c,  1890),  249. 

The  Strange  Story  of  Rab  Raby  (1879),  354. 
JONES,  Dora  M. 

The  Duke's  Ward  (1896),  279. 

A  Maid  of  Normandy  (1906),  336. 
JORDAN,  Humfrey. 

My  Lady  of  Intrigue  (1910),  311. 

K 
KALER,  James  Otis,  b.  1848. 

Ruth  of  Boston  (1910),  311. 

Mary  of  Plymouth  (1910),  311. 

Richard  of  Jamestown  (1910).  311. 

Calvert  of  Maryland  (1910),  311. 

Peter  of  New  Amsterdam  (1910).  3". 

Stephen  of  Philadelphia  (1910),  311. 

Dorothy's  Spy  (1904).  357- 

A  Struggle  for  Freedom  (1909).  357- 

The  Minute  Boys  of  Long  Island  (1908),  358. 

The  Minute  Boys  of  South  Carolina  (1907),  358- 

The  Minute  Boys  of  Wyoming  Valley  (1906),  358. 

The  Minute  Boys  of  Mohawk  Valley  (1905),  358- 

The  Minute  Boys  of  Green  Mountains  (1904),  358. 

The  Minute  Boys  of  New  York  City  (1909),  358. 

The  Minute  Boys  of  Boston  (191°),  358. 

With  Grant  at  Vicksburg  (1910),  398. 


SUPPLEMENT.  469 

KAYE,  Michael  W. 

The  Duke's  Vengeance  (1910),  287. 

The  Cardinal's  Past  (1910),  312. 
KEDDIE,  Henrietta. 

A  Young  Oxford  Maid  (1890),  316. 

At  Lathom's  Siege  (1887),  317. 

Innocent  Masqueraders  (1907),  351. 

The  Poet  and  His  Guardian  Angel  (1904),  353. 

Sir  David's  Visitors  (1903),  384. 

The  Two  Lady  Lascelles  (1908),  416. 

A  Daughter  of  the  Manse  (1905),  417. 
KELLY,  Florence  F. 

Rhoda  of  the  Undergrounds  (1910),  394. 
KELLY,  W.  Patrick. 

The  Assyrian  Bride  (1905),  240. 

The  Stonecutter  of  Memphis  (1904),  240. 

The  Senator  Licinius  (1909),  245. 
KENNY,  Mrs.  Stacpoole. 

Love  is  Life  (1910),  332; 
KENYON,  Charles  R. 

Won  in  Warfare  (1904),  356. 
KENYON,  Edith  C. 

The  Adventures  of  Timothy  (1907),  315. 

Two  Girls  in  a  Siege  (1908),  318. 
KER,  David. 

Under  the  Flag  of  France  (1907),  277. 
KESTER,  Vaughan,  b.  1869. 

John  o'  Jamestown  (1907),  308. 
KING,  General  Charles,  b.  1844. 

Rock  of  Chicamauga  (1907),  397. 
KING,  R. 

The  Chief's  Daughter  (c.  1860),  308. 

The  Convert  of  Massachusetts  (c.  1860),  341. 
KINGSCOTE,  Mrs.  Adelina  G.  I. 

Our  Lady  of  Beauty  (1904),  284. 
KINGSLEY,  Mrs.  Florence  Morse,  b.  1859. 

The  Star  of  Love  (1909),  241. 

Titus  :   a  Comrade  of  the  Cross  (1894),  244. 

Love  Triumphant  (Tor  :  or  A  Street  Boy  of  Jerusalem) 
(1905),  244. 

Stephen  :  a  Soldier  of  the  Cross  (1896),  244. 

Paul :  a  Herald  of  the  Cross  (1897),  244. 

The  Cross  Triumphant  (1899),  244. 
KINGSTON,  W.  H.  G. 

Eldol  the  Druid  (1874),  245. 

The  Young  Rajah  (1876),  392. 


470  SUPPLEMENT. 

KIRK,  James  P. 

Fortuna  Chance  (1910),  342. 
KIRKE,  Violet  T. 

Brothers  Five  (1910),  302. 
KIRKMAN,  Marshall  Munroe. 

Alexander  the  Prince  (1909),  241. 

Alexander  the  King  (1909),  241. 

Alexander  and  Roxana  (1909),  241. 

Iskander  (1903),  241. 
KLARMAN,  Andrew. 

The  Princess  of  Gan-Sar  (1907),  247. 
KNAPP,  Adeline. 

The  Boy  and  the  Baron  (1902),  274. 
KNIGHT,  Mrs.  Adele  Ferguson. 

Mademoiselle  Celeste  (1910),  362. 
KNIGHT,  Henrietta. 

Aylmer  Court  (1895),  314. 
KNOWLES-FOSTER,  Frances  G. 

Jehanne  of  the  Golden  Lips  (1910),  277. 
KNOX,  Dorothea  H. 

The  Heart  of  Washington  (1909),  346. 
KRAMER,  Harold  M. 

Gayle  Langford  (1907),  357. 


LA  BARILLIER,  Madame,  b.  1868. 

Cleopatre  (1891),  242. 

Ximenes  (1893),  290. 
LANCE,  Rupert. 

The  Crowning  Hour  (1910),  410. 
LANDIS,  Frederick. 

The  Glory  of  His  Country  (1910),  419. 
LANE,  Elinor  Macartney. 

All  for  the  Love  of  a  Lady  (1906),  311. 

Nancy  Stair  (1904),  353. 
LANE,  Mrs.  John. 

Kitwyk  (1903),  415. 
LANE,  John  V. 

Marching  with  Morgan  (1909),  357. 
LAWRENCE,  George  Alfred,  1827-76. 

Brakespeare  (1868),  276. 
LE  CLERC,  M.  E. 

Mistress  Beatrice  Cope  (1889),  339. 
LEE,  Rev.  Albert,  b.  1855. 

King  Stork  of  the  Netherlands  (1901),  303. 

A  King's  Treachery  (1909),  304. 


SUPPLEMENT.  471 

LEE,  Mary  and  Catherine. 

The  Oak  Staircase  (1872),  329. 

St.  Dunstan's  Fair  (1892),  383. 
"  LEE,  Vernon."     (See  Page,  Violet.) 
LEES,  Robert  James. 

The  Car  of  Phoebus  (1903),  408. 
LE  FANU,  Joseph  Sheridan,  1814-73. 

The  Fortunes  of  Col.  Torlogh  O'Brien  (1847),  333. 
LEGGE,  Clayton  Mackenzie. 

Highland  Mary  (1907),  353. 
LEIGHTON,  Robert,  b.  1859. 

Hurrah  for  the  Spanish  Main  (1904),  299. 

With  Nelson  in  Command  (1905),  371. 
LESLIE,  Emma. 

Glaucia  the  Greek  Slave  (1904),  246. 

On  the  Emperor's  Service  (1905),  251. 

The  Martyr's  Victory  (1886),  259. 

Gytha's  Message  (1885),  262. 

Dearer  than  Life  (1884),  278. 

Faithful,  But  Not  Famous  (1872),  290. 

The  Hermit  of  Livry  (1877),  291. 

At  the  Sign  of  the  Golden  Fleece  (1900),  292. 

Peter  the  Apprentice  (1889),  292. 

Saxby  (1884),  309. 
LEVER,  Charles,  1806-72. 

The  O'Donoghue  (1845),  369. 

The  Knight  of  Gwynne  (1847),  369. 
LEWIS,  Alfred  H. 

The  Story  of  Paul  Jones  (1906),  360. 
LEWIS,  Arthur. 

The  Pilgrim  (1910),  263. 
LIGHTON,  W.  Rheem. 

The  Shadow  of  a  Great  Rock  (1907),  391. 
LILJENCRANTZ,  Ottilie  A.,  b.  1876. 

The  Vinland  Champions  (1904),  261. 
LINDSAY,  C.  H.  Forbes,  b.  1860. 

John  Smith,  Gentleman  Adventurer  (1907),  308. 

Daniel  Boone  (1908),  360. 
LINDSEY,  William,  b.  1858. 

The  Severed  Mantle  (1909),  268. 
LOCH,  Emily. 

A  Bearer  of  Despatches  (1905),  316. 
LORRAINE,  Rupert. 

The  Woman  and  the  Sword  (1908),  313. 
LOTHROP,  Mrs. 

The  Judges'  Cave  (1900),  321. 


472  SUPPLEMENT. 

LOTHROP,  Mrs  . — continued. 

A  Little  Maid  of  Boston  Town  (1910),  355. 

The  Little  Maid  of  Concord  Town  (1898),  356. 
LOWE,  Charles. 

A  Lindsay's  Love  (1905),  399. 
LUCAS,  Annie. 

Wenzel's  Inheritance  (1880),  283. 

The  City  and  the  Castle  (1876),  290. 
LUDLOW,  James  M.,  b.  1841. 

Sir  Raoul  (1905),  270. 
Luxz,  Grace  Livingston  Hill. 

Marcia  Schuyler  (1908),  417. 
LYLE,  Jun.,  Eugene  P. 

The  Lone  Star  (1907),  387. 

The  Missourian  (1905),  393. 
LYNN,  Escott. 

When  Lion-Heart  was  King  (1907),  268. 

Under  the  Red  Rose  (1910),  286. 

M 
"  M.  R.  H." 

The  Hermit  of  Livry  (1890),  290. 
"  McAuLAY,  Allan  "  (Miss  Stewart). 

The  Safety  of  the  Honours  (1906),  319. 

The  Eagle's  Nest  (1909),  354. 
MACBRIDE,  Mackenzie. 

King  Penda's  Captain  (1908),  256. 
MCCARTHY,  Justin  Huntly,  b.  1860. 

The  God  of  Love  (1909),  274. 

The  Dryad  (1905),  275. 

The  Flower  of  France  (1906),  283. 

Needles  and  Pins  (1907),  284. 

The  Gorgeous  Borgia  (1908),  289. 

The  Duke's  Motto  (1908),  312. 

The  Lady  of  Loyalty  House  (1904),  314. 

Seraphica  (1907),  341. 

The  O'Flynn  (1910),  411. 
McCHESNEY,  Dora  G.,  b.  1871. 

The  Wounds  of  a  Friend  (1908),  300. 

Yesterday's  To-morrow  (1905),  325. 
MCDONNELL,  R. 

When  Cromwell  came  to  Drogheda  (1906),  318. 

My  Sword  for  Patrick  Sarsfield  (1907),  333. 
MACFARLANE,  P.  C. 

The  Centurion's  Story  (1910),  247. 
MACGOWAN,  Alice,  b.  1858. 

The  Sword  in  the  Mountains  (1910),  395. 


SUPPLEMENT.  473 

MclNTYRE,  John  T. 

The  Young  Continentals  at  Lexington  (1909),  355. 

The  Young  Continentals  at  Bunker  Hill  (1910),  355 

Fighting  King  George  (1905).  359- 

With  Paul  Jones  (1906),  360. 

The  Boy  Tars  of  1812  (1907),  380. 
MACKENZIE,  W.  C. 

The  Lady  of  Hirta  (1905),  342. 

The  Shirra  (1910),  416. 

"  MACLAREN,  Ian."     (See  Watson,  Rev.  John.) 
McLAWs,  Emily  Lafayette. 

The  Maid  of  Athens  (1906),  385. 

The  Welding  (1907),  394. 
MACLEAN,  Norman. 

Hills  of  Home  (1906),  344. 
McMANus,  Miss  L. 

In  Sarsfield's  Days  (1906),  333. 
MACMILLAN,  Michael. 

In  Wild  Maratha  Battle  (1906),  328. 

The  Princess  of  Balkh  (1905),  328. 

The  Last  of  the  Peshwas  (1906),  384. 
McNEiL,  Everett. 

In  Texas  with  Davy  Crockett  (1908),  387. 

Fighting  with  Fremont  (1910),  390. 

The  Boy  Forty-Niners  (1908),  391. 
MACPHAIL,  Andrew. 

The  Vine  of  Sibmah  (1906),  325. 
MACQUOID,  Katharine  S. 

Captain  Dallington  (1907),  337. 
MADDEN,  Eva. 

Two  Royal  Foes  (1907),  376. 
MADISON,  Mrs.  Lucy  Foster. 

A  Maid  of  Salem  Town  (1906),  335. 

Peggy  Owen  (1908),  356. 
MAGNAY,  Sir  William,  Bart.,  b.  1855. 

The  Amazing  Duke  (1906),  324. 
MAJOR,  Charles,  b.  1856. 

Yolanda,  Maid  of  Burgundy  (1906),  287. 

The  Little  King  (1910),  322. 

A  Gentle  Knight  of  Old  Brandenburg  (1909),  350. 
MANN,  Millicent  E. 

Lady  Dear  (1906),  288. 
MANSFORD,  Charles  J. 

Fags  and  the  King  (1909),  367. 
MARGUERITTE,  Victor,  b.  1866. 

Le  Petit  Roi  d'Ombre  (1909),  364. 


474  SUPPLEMENT. 

MARKHAM,  Sir  Clements  Robert,  b.  1830. 

The  Paladins  of  Edwin  the  Great  (1896),  255. 
MARSH,  Frances. 

A  Romance  of  Old  Folkestone  (1906),  368. 

The  Iron  Game  (1909),  399. 
MARSHALL,  Beatrice. 

The  Queen's  Knight  Errant  (1904),  300. 

His  Most  Dear  Ladye  (1906),  307. 
MARSHALL,  Emma,  1832-99. 

No.  XIII.  or  The  Story  of  the  Lost  Vestal  (1885),  250. 

The  Two  Swords  (1887),  317. 

The  First  Light  on  the  Eddystone  (1894),  334. 

An  Escape  from  the  Tower  (1896),  339. 

Bristol  Diamonds  (1888).  351. 

Castle  Meadow  (1897),  352. 

In  Four  Reigns  (1887),  352. 

On  the  Banks  of  the  Ouse  (1888),  353. 

Up  and  Down  the  Pantiles  (1890),  368. 

A  Romance  of  the  Underclitf  (1891),  368. 
MARX,  W.  J. 

For  the  Admiral  (1906),  304. 
MASEFIELD,  John. 

Martin  Hyde  (1910),  329. 

Captain  Margaret  (1908),  330. 

Lost  Endeavour  (1910),  411. 
MASON,  Caroline  Atwater,  b.  1853. 

The  White  Shield  (1904),  247. 

The  Binding  of  the  Strong  (1908),  310. 
MATURIN,  Charles  Robert,  1782-1824. 

The  Albigenses  (1824),  271. 
MAUGHAM,  H.  N. 

Richard  Hawkwood  (1906),  287. 
MEADE,  L.  T.  (Mrs.  Toulmin  Smith). 

The  Witch  Maid  (1903),  373. 
MEINHOLD,  Johann  WTilhelm,  1797-1851. 

The  Amber  Witch  (1843),  312. 
MELLOR,  Dora. 

Beauty  Retire  (1909),  330. 
MERCIER,  Mrs.  Jerome. 

By  the  King  and  Queen  (1886),  245. 
MEREJKOWSKI,  D. 

Peter  and  Alexis  (Peter  the  Great)  (1904),  338. 
"  MERRIMAN,  H.  Seton."     (See  Scott,  Hugh  S.) 
MILLER,  Elizabeth,  b.  1878. 

The  Yoke  (1904),  240. 

Saul  of  Tarsus  (1906),  245. 

The  City  of  Delight  (1908),  246. 


SUPPLEMENT.  475 

MILLER,  Lewis  B. 

The  White  River  Raft  (1910),  418. 

MlLLINGTON,  T.  S. 

A  Great  Mistake  (1902),  400. 
MILLS,  Weymer  J.,  b.  1880. 

The  Van  Rensselaers  of  Old  Manhattan  (1907),  358 

The  Girl  I  Left  Behind  Me  (1910),  417. 
MITCHELL,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Harcourt. 

The  King's  Stirrup  (1896),  264. 

The  Little  Blue  Lady,  &c.  (1881)  :— 
The  Little  Blue  Lady,  360. 
Ina,  403. 

Lazy  Rudolph,  410. 
Engel  the  Fearless  (1886),  409. 
MITCHELL,  S.  Weir,  b.  1830. 

A  Venture  in  1777  (1908),  358. 

The  Red  City  (1908),  370. 

A  Diplomatic  Adventure  (1906),  392. 

Constance  Trescott  (1905),  419. 

MITFORD,  Algernon  Bertram  Freeman.     (See  Redesdale,  Baron.) 
MOLANDER,  Harald. 

The  Fortune-Hunter  (1897),  312. 
"  MONTGOMERY,  K.  L."  (Kathleen  and  Letitia  Montgomery). 

The  Ark  of  the  Curse  (1906),  305. 

The  Cardinal's  Pawn  (1904),  306. 

Major  Weir  (1904),  319. 

Colonel  Kate  (1908),  343. 
MOORE,  Dorothea. 

God's  Bairn  (1905),  310. 

My  Lady  Bellamy  (1909),  333. 

A  Lady  of  Mettle  (1910),  333. 

Pamela's  Hero  (1907),  352. 

The  Luck  of  Ledge  Point  (1909),  373. 

Brown  (1905),  383. 
MOORE,  F.  Frankfort,  b.  1855. 

Captain  Latymer  (1907),  318. 

The  Messenger  (The  Love  That  Prevailed)  (1907),  346. 

Tre,  Pol,  and  Pen  (1887),  367. 

He  Loved  But  One  (1905),  385. 

Sir  Roger's  Heir  (1904),  411. 
MOORE,  H.  C. 

A  Devonshire  Lass  (1908),  297. 
MORDECAI,  Margaret. 

The  Flower  of  Destiny,  &c.  (1910)  : — 
The  Flower  of  Destiny,  255. 
The  Last  of  the  Fatimites,  267. 


476  SUPPLEMENT. 

MORDECAI,  Margaret — continued. 

The  Flower  of  Destiny,  &c.  (1910) — continued. 
The  New  Moon  of  Islam,  283. 
The  Heart  of  Bosnia,  383. 
MORE,  E.  Anson,  b.  1854. 

A  Captain  of  Men  (1905),  240. 
MORGAN,  George, 

The  Issue  (1904),  389. 
MORGAN,  J.  Brown  and  J.  Rogers  Freeman. 

The  Spurs  of  Gold  (1905),  281. 
MORRIS,  William,  1834-96. 

A  Dream  of  John  Ball  (1880),  279. 
MOTT,  F.  B. 

Before  the  Crisis  (1904),  393. 
MUDDOCK,  J.  E.  P.,  b.  1843. 

Jane  Shore  (1905),  286. 

In  the  Face  of  Night  (1908),  296. 

In  the  Queen's  Service  (1907),  298. 

For  the  White  Cockade  (1906),  343. 

The  Shadow  of  Evil  (1907),  378. 
MUNROE,  Kirk,  b.  1850. 

The  White  Conquerors  of  Mexico  (The  White  Conquerors) 
(1893),  291. 

Midshipman  Stuart  (1899),  380, 
MURFREE,  Mary  Noailles,  b.  1850. 

The  Amulet  (1906),  349. 

The  Storm  Centre  (1905),  394. 

The  Frontiersmen  (1904),  413. 
MURRAY,  Hon.  Charles  A. 

The  Prairie  Bird  (1844),  370. 
MURRAY,  David  Christie,  1847-1907. 

V.C. :  a  Chronicle  of  Castle  Barfield  (1904),  391. 
MYRICK,  Herbert. 

Cache  La  Poudre  (1905),  401. 

N 
NAYLOR,  J.  Ball,  b.  1860. 

The  Kentuckians  (1905),  419. 
NEALE,  Rev.  John  Mason,  1818-66. 

The  Exiles  of  the  Cebenna  (c.  1860),  249. 

Lucia's  Marriage  (c.  1860),  249. 

The  Farm  of  Aptonga  (c,  1850),  249. 

Followers  of  the  Lord  (1851)  : — 
The  Theban  Legion,  249. 

Evenings  at  Sackville  College  (c.  1850),  249. 

Deeds  of  Faith  (1850),  249. 

Lent  Legends  (c.  1850),  249. 


SUPPLEMENT.  477 

NEALE,  Rev.  John  Mason — continued. 

Tales  of  Christian  Heroism  (1845),  249. 

Tales  Illustrative  of  the  Apostles'  Creed  (c.  1850),  249. 

The  Egyptian  Wanderers  (1854),  250. 

The  Daughters  of  Pola  (c.  1860),  251. 

The  Quay  of  the  Dioscuri  (c.  1860),  251. 

The  Rescue  (c.  1860),  257. 

The  Lily  of  Tiflis  (c.  1860),  257. 

The  Dove  of  Tabenna  (c.  1860),  258. 

Agnes  De  Tracy  (1843),  266. 

Stories  of  the  Crusades  (c.  1845)  : — 
De  Hellingley,  267. 
The  Crusade  of  St.  Louis,  273. 

The  Sea-Tigers  (c.  1860),  274. 

The  Bride  of  Ramcuttah  (c.  1860),  295. 

Larache  (c.  1860),  305. 

Shepperton  Manor  (1845),  307. 

The  Lazar  House  of  Leros  (c.  1860),  313. 

Dores  de  Gualdim  (c.  1865),  313. 

Herbert  Tresham  (1845),  317. 

Duchenier  (1848),  364. 
NEWBOLT,  Henry  John,  b.  1862. 

The  New  June  (1909),  280. 
NICHOLLS,  William  Jasper. 

The  Daughters  of  Suffolk  (1910),  297. 
NIVEN,  Frederick. 

The  Island  Providence  (1910),  331. 
NORWAY,  G. 

A  Roman  Household  (1899),  246. 

O 

O'BRIEN,  William,  b.  1852. 

A  Queen  of  Men  (1898),  301. 
When  we  were  Boys  (1890),  420. 

O'BYRNE,  W.  L. 

The  Knight  of  the  Cave  (1906),  265. 
The  Falcon  King  (1907),  266. 
O'GRADY,  Standish,  b.  1846. 

The  Flight  of  the  Eagle  (1897),  301. 
The  Bog  of  Stars,  &c.  (1893),  301. 

O'KANE,  W.  M. 

With  Poison  and  Sword  (1910),  298. 
OLDMEADOW,  Ernest  J. 

Antonio  (1909),  387. 
OLLIVANT,  Alfred. 

The  Gentleman  (1908),  372. 


478  SUPPLEMENT. 

"  ONIONS,  Oliver." 

Draw  in  your  Stool  (1909)  : — 

A  Daughter  of  Gaul,  242. 

Back  o'  the  Moon  (1906),  413. 
OPENSHAW,  Mary. 

The  Loser  Pays  (1908),  362. 

The  Cross  of  Honour  (1910),  376. 
ORCUTT,  William  Dana,  b.  1870. 

Robert  Cavalier  (1904),  334. 

The  Flower  of  Destiny  (1905),  399. 
"  ORCZY,  Baroness."    (See  Barstow,  Mrs.  M.) 
ORMEROD,  Frank. 

The  Two-Handed  Sword  (1909),  342. 
OSBORNE,  Duffield,  b.  1858. 

The  Angels  of  Messer  Ercole  (1907),  288. 
OSWALD,  E.  J. 

The  Dragon  of  the  North  (1888),  262. 
"  OTIS,  James."    (See  Kaler.) 

OUTRAM,  M.  F. 

In  the  Van  of  the  Vikings  (1909),  260. 
OXENHAM,  Elsie  Jeanette. 

Mistress  Nanciebel  (1909),  324. 
OXENHAM,  John. 

Carette  of  Sark  (A  Man  of  Sark)  (1907),  371. 

Lauristons  (1910),  377. 

The  Coil  of  Carne  (1911),  391. 

Great  Heart  Gillian  (1909),  400. 
OXLEY,  J.  Macdonald. 

Diamond  Rock  (1904),  371. 

North  Overland  with  Franklin  (1907),  384. 

Terry's  Trials  and  Triumphs  (1900),  396. 
OZAKI,  Yei  Theodora. 

Warriors  of  Old  Japan  (1909),  410. 

P 
PAGE,  Violet,  b.  1856. 

Penelope  Brandling  (1903),  413. 
PARKER,  Frances. 

Winding  Waters  (1909),  402. 
PARKER,  Sir  Gilbert,  b.  1862. 

A  Ladder  of  Swords  (1904),  300; 

The  Weavers  (1907),  418. 
PARRISH,  Randall,  b.  1858. 

A  Sword  of  the  Old  Frontier  (1905),  349. 

Prisoners  of  Chance  (1908),  349. 

When  Wilderness  was  King  (1904),  380. 

My  Lady  of  the  South  (1909),  397. 


SUPPLEMENT.  479 

PARRISH,  Randall — continued 

My  Lady  of  the  North  (1904),  398. 

Bob  Hampton  of  Placer  (1906),  402. 
PARRY,  D.  H. 

The  Golden  Glory  (1906),  296. 
PARRY,  Judge  E.  A. 

England's  Elizabeth  (1904),  297. 
PATER,  Walter,  1839-94. 

Gaston  de  Latour  (1889),  304. 
PATTERSON,  B.  S. 

The  Head  of  Iron  (1908),  348. 
PEARCE,  Charles  E. 

Love  Besieged  (1909),  392. 
PEARD,  Frances  Mary. 

Prentice  Hugh  (1887)   275. 

The  Abbot's  Bridge  (1891),  276. 

The  Blue  Dragon  (1890),  289. 

To  Horse  and  Away  (1888),  319. 

Scapegrace  Dick  (1886),  320. 
PEASE,  Howard. 

With  the  Warden  of  the  Marches  (1909),  298. 

Magnus  Sinclair  (1904),  318. 

Of  Mistress  Eve  (1906),  318. 

The  Burning  Cresset  (1908),  339. 
PECK,  Theodore. 

The  Sword  of  Dundee  (1908),  342. 
PEMBERTON,  Max,  b.  1863. 

Sir  Richard  Escombe  (1908),  345. 

My  Sword  for  Lafayette  (1906),  360. 

Beatrice  of  Venice  (1904),  366. 

The  Hundred  Days  (1905),  383. 
PEPLE,  Edward. 

Semiramis  (1907),  239. 
PETERSON,  H. 

Dulcibel  (1907),  335- 
PHELPS,  C.  E,  D.,  b.  1851. 

The  Accolade  (1905),  278. 
PHILLPOTTS,  Eden,  b.  1862. 

The  American  Prisoner  (1904),  379. 
PICKERING,  Edgar. 

An  Old  Time  Yarn  (1893),  298. 

The  Cruise  of  the  Angel  (1907),  303. 

Two  Gallant  Rebels  (1895),  364. 
PICKERING,  Sidney. 

Paths  Perilous  (1909),  365. 

The  Key  of  Paradise  (1903),  414 


480  SUPPLEMENT. 

PLANT,  C.  P. 

John  Rigdon  (1904),  393. 
POLLARD,  Eliza  F. 

A  Saxon  Maid  (1901),  264. 

The  White  Standard  (1905),  282. 

Soldiers  of  the  Cross  (1905),  288. 

A  Gentleman  of  England  (1897),  300. 

The  Old  Moat  Farm  (1906),  300. 

The  Queen's  Favourite  (1907),  322. 

Roger  the  Ranger  (1893),  347. 

The  Silver  Hand  (1908),  353. 

The  Green  Mountain  Boys  (Liberty  or  Death)  (1896),  356. 

A  New  England  Maid  (1910),  359. 

A  Girl  of  the  Eighteenth  Century  (1907),  368. 

For  the  Emperor  (1909),  382. 

The  Knights  of  Liberty  (1905),  383. 

True  Unto  Death  (1895),  391. 

The  White  Dove  of  Amritzer  (1897),  392. 
PORTER,  Helen. 

The  Second  Bloom  (1906),  374. 
POST,  Van  Zo. 

Retz  (1908),  287. 
POTTER,  David. 

The  Lady  of  the  Spur  (1910),  386. 

The  Eleventh  Hour  (1910),  390. 
POTTER,  Margaret  H.,  b.  1881. 

The  Flame-Gatherers  (1904),  269. 
POTTINGER,  Sir  Henry. 

Blue  and  Green  (1879),  253. 
POWER,  Edith  Mary. 

A  Knight  of  God  (1909),  301. 
PRAED,  Mrs.  Campbell,  b.  1851. 

Nyria  (1904),  247. 

The  Romance  of  Mdle.  Aisse  (1910),  341. 
PRATT,  Tinsley. 

When  Hawkins  Sailed  the  Sea  (1907),  298. 
PRICE,  Eleanor  C. 

The  Queen's  Man  (1905),  285. 

In  the  Lion's  Mouth  (1894),  362. 
"  PRIOR,  James."     (See  Kirk,  J.  P.) 
PROTHEROE,  Ernest. 

For  Queen  and  Emperor  (1909),  245. 

Scouting  for  a  King  (1910),  319. 
PUDDICOMBE,  Mrs.  Benyon. 

Hearts  of  Wales  (1905),  281. 
PYLE,  Howard,  b.  1853. 

Men  of  Iron  (1892),  281. 

The  Merry  Adventures  of  Robin  Hood  (1883),  409. 


SUPPLEMENT.  481 


Q 

"  Q  "     (See  Couch,  A.  T.  Quiller-). 

R 

RADCLIFFE,  Mrs.  Ann,  1764-1823. 

The  Mysteries  of  Udolpho  (1794),  305. 

The  Italian  (1797).  353- 
"  RAINE,  Allen."     (See  Puddicombe.) 
RAINE,  William  Macleod. 

For  Love  and  Honour  (1904),  343. 
RALLI,  Constantino  Scaramanga. 

The  Wisdom  of  the  Serpent  (1907),  399. 

The  Tyranny  of  Honour  (1911),  401. 
RAMSDEN,  Lewis. 

Red  Cavalier  (1907),  330. 
RAWLENCE,  Guy. 

The  Romantic  Road  (1910),  414. 
RAWSON,  Mrs.  Maud  Stepney. 

Tales  of  Rye  Town  (1905) : — 
A  Coronation,  299. 

The  Weaving  of  Gysele  Espinette,  331. 
My  Lady  Clemency  goes  down  to  Rye,  334. 
My  Lady  Clemency  welcomes  a  Guest,  334. 

The  Apprentice  (1904),  384. 

The  Stairway  of  Honour  (1909)  : — 
Chloe  Finds  a  Conscience,  415. 
Delia  at  a  Disadvantage,  415. 
RAY,  F.  A. 

Maid  of  the  Mohawk  (1906),  358. 
RAYMOND,  Walter,  b.  1852. 

In  the  Smoke  of  War  (1895),  317. 

Jacob  and  John  (1905),  412. 

Two  Men  o'  Mendip  (1889),  416. 
READ,  Opie. 

The  Son  of  the  Swordmaker  (1905),  244. 

By  the  Eternal  (1906),  379. 
READE,  Compton,  b.  1834. 

Discobol  (1907),  245. 
REDESDALE,  Baron,  b.  1837. 

Tales  of  Old  Japan  (1871),  411. 
REED,  Helen  Leah. 

Napoleon's  Young  Neighbour  (1907),  383. 
RENDEL,  H. 

The  King's  Cockade  (1903),  363. 

2  I 


482  SUPPLEMENT. 

REYNOLDS,  George  W.  M.,  1814-79. 

The  Rye  House  Plot  (1844),  325. 

"  RHOSCOMYL,  Owen."     (See  Vaughan,  Captain  Owen.) 
RHYS,  Ernest,  b.  1859. 

The  Man  at  Odds  (1904),  344. 
RHYS,  Grace,  b.  1865. 

The  Prince  of  Lisnover  (1904),  420. 
RICH,  E.  R. 

Comrades  Four  (1907),  396. 
RICHARDSON,  Norval. 

The  Heart  of  Hope  (1905),  398. 

The  Lead  of  Honour  (1910),  417. 
RICKERT,  Edith,  b.  1871. 

Out  of  the  Cypress  Swamp  (1902),  379. 

Golden  Hawk  (1907),  410. 
RIVES,  H.  Erminie. 

The  Castaway  (1904),  385. 
ROBERSON,  Harriette  G. 

Mary  of  Magdala  (1909),  247. 
ROBERTON,  Mrs.  Margaret  H. 

John  Knox's  Bairns  (1905),  296. 
ROBERTS,  Charles  G.  D.,  b.  1860. 

The  Prisoner  of  Mademoiselle  (1904),  338. 
ROBERTS,  Margaret  (Author  of  "  Mademoiselle  Mori  "),  b.  1833; 

A  Little  Step-Daughter  (1887),  341. 

Stephanie's  Children  (1890),  363. 
ROBERTS,  Theodore. 

Captain  Love  (1908),  340. 

Brothers  of  Peril  (1905),  411. 

A  Cavalier  of  Virginia  (1910),  412. 
ROBERTSON,  Frances  Forbes. 

The  Wanton  (1909),  271. 

The  Taming  of  the  Brute  (1905),  413. 
ROBINSON,  A.  Mary  F.  (See  Duclaux,  Mdme.) 
ROBINSON,  Edith. 

A  Puritan  Knight  Errant  (1903),  321. 

A  Little  Puritan's  First  Christmas  (1900),  326. 
ROBINSON,  Nellie  G. 

Philo's  Daughter  (1909),  247. 

RODOCANACHIE,  E. 

Tolla  the  Courtesan  (1897),  336. 
RODWELL,  G.  Herbert. 

Old  London  Bridge  (1849),  293. 
ROI.FE,  F. 

Don  Tarquinio  (1905),  289. 


SUPPLEMENT.  483 

ROUMANIA,  Elizabeth  Queen  of  ("  Carmen  Sylva  "),  b.  1843. 

A  Royal  Story  Book  (1910)  : — 
Decebal's  Daughter,  248. 
The  Poet,  248. 
The  Dacian  Virgin,  248. 
ROUSSELET,  Louis. 

Le  Serviteur  du  Lion  de  la  Mer  (1905),  361. 
ROWE,  G. 

In  Nelson's  Day  (1905),  372. 
ROWSELL,  Mary  C. 

Monsieur  de  Paris  (1907),  361. 
RUFFIN,  Mrs.  Margaret  E.  Henry. 

The  North  Star  (1904),  261. 
RUSSELL,  W.  Clark,  b.  1844. 

The  Yarn  of  Old  Harbour  Town  (1905),  372. 
RYDBERG,  Viktor,  1828-95. 

Singoalla  (1864),  277. 
RYVEN,  George. 

The  Mightiest  Power  (1909),  239. 

S 
SABATINI,  Rafael,  b.  1875. 

The  Shame  of  Motley  (1908),  290. 

Love  at  Arms  (1907),  290. 

St.  Martin's  Summer  (1909),  308. 

Bardeleys  the  Magnificent  (1906),  311. 

The  Tavern  Knight  (1904),  319. 

The  Lovers  of  Yvonne  (Suitors  of  Yvonne)  (1902),  322. 

Anthony  Wilding  (Arms  and  the  Maid)  (1910),  330. 

The  Lion's  Skin  (1911),  340. 

The  Trampling  of  the  Lilies  (1906),  361. 
"  SAGON,  Amyot." 

Under  the  Roman  Eagles  (1907),  246. 
ST.  JOHN,  H. 

The  Voyage  of  the  Avenger  (1898),  299. 
SAMSON,  John. 

In  the  Dictator's  Grip  (1902),  381. 
SAVIDGE,  E.  Coleman. 

The  American  hi  Paris  (1896),  401. 
SCHMIDT,  Ferdinand,  1823-88. 

Hermann  and  Thusnelda  (c.  1870),  243. 
SCHOFIELD,  Mary. 

The  Ladye  of  Lydlinch  (1906),  262. 
SCHURE,  Edouard,  b.  1842. 

The  Priestess  of  Isis  (1907),  247. 
SCHUYLER,  William, 

Under  Pontius  Pilate  (1906),  243. 


484  SUPPLEMENT. 

SCOLLARD,  Clinton,  b.  1860. 

The  Vicar  of  the  Marches  (1911),  265. 
SCOTT,  Hugh  Stowell,  1863-1903. 

The  Last  Hope  (1904),  388. 
SCOTT,  John  Reed,  b.  1869. 

Beatrix  of  Clare  (1907),  286. 

The  Impostor  (1910),  349. 
SCOTT,  Michael,  1789-1835. 

Tom  Cringle's  Log  (1836),  416. 
SCOTT,  Thomas. 

Morcar  (1903),  309. 
SCUDDER,  Vida  D. 

The  Disciple  of  a  Saint  (1907),  278. 
SEABROOK,  Phoebe  H. 

A  Daughter  of  the  Confederacy  (1907),  397. 
SEAMAN,  Augusta  H. 

Jacqueline  of  the  Carrier  Pigeons  (191°).  3°3« 
SEARS,  Margaret  L. 

Menotomy  (1908),  356. 
SEATON,  Paul. 

For  Love  and  Loyalty  (1905),  343' 
SEA  WELL,  Molly  Elliott,  b.  1860. 

The  Last  Duchess  of  Belgarde  (1908),  361. 

Decatur  and  Somers  (1894),  375. 

The  Imprisoned  Midshipman  (1908),  376. 

Midshipman  Paulding  (1891),  380. 

The  Victory  (1906),  396. 
SEDGWICK,  Sidney  Newman. 

A  Daughter  of  the  Druids  (1904),  250. 
SELLICK,  G.  G. 

Highway  Dust  (1907),  344. 
SENIOR,  Dorothy. 

The  Clutch  of  Circumstance  (1908),  408. 
SEYMOUR,  Pliny  B. 

Woodhull  (1907),  355. 
SHACKELFORD,  Henry. 

The  Lost  King  (1903),  365. 
SHAW,  Captain  Frank  H. 

In  the  Days  of  Nelson  (1910),  367. 
SHEEHAN,  Canon  Patrick  A.,  b.  1852. 

Glenanaar  (1905),  385. 
SHEPPARD,  Alfred  T. 

The  Red  Cravat  (1905),  349. 

Running  Horse  Inn  (1906),  384. 
SHURTS,  J.  Van  der  Veer. 

Kedar  Kross  (1908),  389. 
' '  SIDNEY,  Margaret."     (See  Lothrop,  Mrs.) 


SUPPLEMENT.  485 

SlENKIEWICZ,  H.,  b.  1846. 

The  Field  of  Glory  (On  the  Field  of  Glory)  (c.  1900),  328. 
SILBERRAD,  Una  L. 

Declined  with  Thanks  (1911),  410, 

Sampson  Rideout,  Quaker  (1911),  411. 
SILKE,  Louisa  C. 

Ravensdale  Castle  (1903),  300. 

A  Hero  in  the  Strife  (1892),  323. 

Margaret  Somerset  (1894),  325. 
SIMPSON,  Violet  A. 

The  Parson's  Wood  (1905),  331. 

The  Sovereign  Power  (1904),  373. 
SINCLAIR,  Bertrand  W. 

Raw  Gold  (1908),  420. 
SINCLAIR,  Upton. 

Manassas  (1904),  394. 
SMITH,  Alice  Prescott. 

Montlivet  (1906),  334. 
SMITH,  E.  K.  Seth. 

A  Son  of  Odin  (1909),  258. 

Friedhelm  (1905),  270. 

To  the  Shrine  of  St.  Truth  (1904),  279. 
SMITH,  F.  Hopkinson,  b.  1838. 

The  Tides  of  Barnegat  (1906),  419. 
SMITH,  James,  and  John  Wren  Sutton. 

The  Secret  of  the  Sphinx  (1906),  240. 
SMITH,  Mrs.  Mary  P.  Wells,  b.  1840. 

The  Boy  Captive  of  Old  Deerfield  (1904),  338. 

Boys  of  the  Border  (1907),  347. 

Boys  and  Girls  of  '77  (1909),  358. 
SMITH,  Minna  Caroline. 

Mary  Paget  (1900),  307. 
SMITH,  Ruel  Perley,  b.  1869. 

Prisoners  of  Fortune  (1907),  338. 
SMITH,  Sheila  Kaye. 

Starbrace  (1909),  412. 

The  Tramping  Methodist  (1908),  414. 
SMYTH,  Dr.  Newman. 

The  Story  of  the  Child  that  Jesus  Took  (1907),  247. 
SNAITH,  J.  C. 

The  Wayfarers  (1902),  345. 

Fortune  (1910),  410. 
SPILLMANN,  J. 

Valiant  and  True  (1905),  361. 
SPRAGUE,  William  C. 

The  Boy  Courier  of  Napoleon  (1904),  375. 


486  SUPPLEMENT. 

SPURRELL,  Herbert. 

At  Sunrise  (1904),  245. 
STABLES,  Gordon,  b.  1840. 

As  We  Sweep  Through  the  Deep  (1894),  367. 

Chris  Cunningham  (1903),  367. 
STAGE,  Henry. 

The  Adventures  of  Count  O'Connor  (1907),  328.  S 
STACPOOLE,  H.  de  Vere. 

The  Drums  of  War  (1910),  399. 
STANARD,  Mary  Newton. 

The  Dreamer  (1909),  387. 
STARK,  James  H. 

The  Loyalists  of  Massachusetts  (1910),  360. 
STAVERT,  A.  A.  B. 

Boys  of  Baltimore  (1907),  309. 
STEAD,  R. 

Kinsman  and  Namesake  (1909),  281. 

Will  of  the  Dales  (1905),  411. 
STEEL,  Flora  Annie,  b.  1847. 

A  Prince  of  Dreamers  (1908),  306. 
STEIN,  Evaleen. 

A  Little  Shepherd  of  Provence  (1910),  409. 
STEPHENS,  C.  A. 

The  Ark  of  1803  (1904),  374. 
STEPHENS,  R.  Neilson,  d.  1906. 

Captain  Ravenshaw  (1901),  302. 

The  Bright  Face  of  Danger  (1904).  308. 

The  Flight  of  Georgiana  (1905),  343. 

The  Road  to  Paris  (1902),  354. 

The  Continental  Dragoon  (1901),  359. 
STEPHENS,  R.  Neilson,  and  G.  H.  Westley. 

Clementina's  Highwayman  (1907),  344. 
STEPHENSON,  Nathaniel,  b.  1867. 

Eleanor  Dayton  (1903),  399. 
STERLING,  Sara  Hawks. 

Shakespeare's  Sweetheart  (1905),  302. 

A  Lady  of  King  Arthur's  Court  (1909).  4°8. 
STEUART,  John  A. 

The  Red  Reaper  (1905),  319. 
STEVENS,  Sheppard,  b.  1862. 

The  Sign  of  Triumph  (1904),  270. 
STEVENS,  W.  O.,  and  Barclay  McKee. 

The  Young  Privateersman  (1910),  379. 
STEVENSON,  Burton  Egbert,  b.  1872. 

At  Odds  with  the  Regent  (1901),  341. 

The  Path  of  Honor  (1910),  362. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


STEVENSON,  Philip  L. 

The  Rose  of  Dauphiny  (1909),  305. 

A  Gallant  of  Gascony  (1907),  305. 

The  Black  Cuirassier  (1906),  313. 

A  Gendarme  of  the  King  (1905),  350. 
STEVENSON,  Robert  Louis,  1850-94. 

'    A  Lodging  for  the  Night  (1878),  284. 
•        Weir  of  Hermiston  (1895),  37§. 
STEWART,  Newton  V. 

A  Son  of  the  Emperor  (1909),  271. 
STODDARD,  W.  O.,  b.  1835. 

Ulric  the  Jarl  (1899),  244. 

The  Swordmaker's  Son  (1896),  244. 

With  the  Black  Prince  (1898),  276. 

Dan  Monroe  (1905),  357. 

Two  Cadets  with  Washington  (1906),  357. 

The  Fight  for  the  Valley  (1904),  358. 

The  Spy  of  Yorktown  (1903),  359. 

On  the  Old  Frontier  (1894),  359. 

Long  Bridge  Boys  (1904),  394. 

The  Battle  of  New  York  (1892),  397. 
STRAIN,  Mrs.  E.  H. 

A  Prophet's  Reward  (1908),  353. 
STRANG,  Herbert. 

With  Drake  on  the  Spanish  Main  (On  the  Spanish  Main) 
(1904),  299. 

Humphrey  Bold  (1908),  336. 

The  Adventures  of  Harry  Rochester  (1906),  336. 

Rob  the  Ranger  (1907),  348. 

One  of  Clive's  Heroes  (In  Clive's  Command)  (1906),  349. 

Jack  Hardy  (1906),  373. 

The  Adventures  of  Dick  Trevanion  (1910),  373. 

Boys  of  the  Light  Brigade  (Light  Brigade  in  Spain)  (1905),  381. 

Barclay  of  the  Guides  (1908),  392. 
STRANG,  Herbert,  and  George  Lawrence. 

Roger  the  Scout  (1911),  344. 
STRANG,  Herbert,  and  John  Aston. 

In  the  New  Forest  (1910),  263. 

Claud  the  Archer  (1909),  282. 
STRANG,  Herbert,  and  Richard  Stead. 

Lion  Heart  (1910),  268. 

With  the  Black  Prince  (1910),  276. 

A  Mariner  of  England  (1910),  299. 

One  of  Rupert's  Horse  (1909),  314. 

With  Marlborough  to  Malplaquet  (1910),  337. 
STRATEMEYER,  Edward,  b.  1862. 

On  the  Trail  of  Pontiac  (1904),  348. 


488  SUPPLEMENT. 

STRATEMEYER,  Edward — continued. 

The  Minute  Boys  of  Bunker  Hill  (1899),  358. 

The  Minute  Boys  of  Lexington  (1898),  358. 

For  the  Liberty  of  Texas  (1909),  390. 

With  Taylor  on  the  Rio  Grande  (1909),  390. 

Under  Scott  in  Mexico  (1909),  390. 

Defending  His  Flag  (1907),  397. 
STUART,  Dorothy  Margaret. 

Martin  the  Mummer  (1910),  284. 
STUART,  Esme. 

In  the  Days  of  Luther  (The  Fate  of  Castle  Lowengard) 
(1884),  291. 

Carried  Off  (1888),  326. 

Isabeau's  Hero  (1882),  336. 

For  Love  and  Ransom  (1904),  383. 

A  Nest  of  Royalists  (1892),  386. 

The  Belfry  of  St.  Jude  (1880),  400. 
STUART,  Henry  L. 

Weeping  Cross  (1908),  321. 
SURREY,  George. 

A  Northumbrian  in  Arms  (1909),  262. 

Mid  Clash  of  Swords  (1908),  295. 
SUTCLIFFE,  Halliwell,  b.  1870. 

Pam  the  Fiddler  (1911),  298. 

Under  the  White  Cockade  (1902),  343. 
SWALLOW,  Henry  J. 

Love  While  Ye  May  (1907),  298. 
SWAN,  Edgar. 

The  Sword  and  the  Cowl  (1909),  263. 
"  SYLVA,  Carmen."     (See  Roumania,  Queen  of). 
SYMONDS,  B. 

A  Lady  of  France  (1910),  275. 


"  TALLENTYRE,  S.  G."  (Miss  E.  V.  Hall). 

Early  Victorian  (Basset)  (1910),  418. 
TANQUERAY,  Mrs.  Bertram. 

The  Royal  Quaker  (1904),  323. 
TANSLEY,  F.  C. 

For  Kett  and  Countryside  (1910),  296. 
TAPPAN,  Eva  March. 

Robin  Hood  :   his  Book  (1903),  409. 
TARBET,  W.  G. 

A  Loyal  Maid  (1908),  343. 
TAYLOR,  C.  Bryson. 

Nicanor,  Teller  of  Tales  (1906),  252. 


SUPPLEMENT.  489 

TAYLOR,  Irene  Strickland. 

True  Gold  (1910),  315. 
TAYLOR,  Mary  Imlay. 

My  Lady  Clancarty  (1905),  334. 
TEARLE,  Christian. 

Holborn  Hill  (1909),  372. 
"  THEKLA." 

In  the  Days  of  the  Gironde  (1910),  363. 
THEURIET,  Andre 

La  Chanoinesse  (1893),  361. 
THIBAULT,  Anatole,  b.  1844. 

Judaeus  Procurator  (1892),  247. 

Thai's  (1890),  408. 

At  the  Sign  of  the  Queen  Pedauque  (1889),  412. 
THOMAS,  Rev.  H.  Elwyn. 

The  Forerunner  (1910),  310. 

Ifor  Owain  (1911),  310. 
THOMAS,  Martha  McCannon,  b.  1823. 

Captain  Phil  (1884),  397. 
THOMPSON,  Adele  E. 

American  Patty  (1909),  380. 
THOMPSON,  E.  Perronet. 

A  Dragoon's  Wife  (1907),  327. 
THYNNE,  A.C. 

Sir  Bevill  (1904),  309. 
TILTON,  Dwight. 

My  Lady  Laughter  (1905),  356, 
TODD,  G.  Eyre. 

Cavalier  and  Covenant  (Anne  of  Argyle)  (1895),  319* 
TOMLINSON,  Everett  T.,  b.  1859. 

The  Fort  in  the  Forest  (1904),  347. 

A  Soldier  of  the  Wilderness  (1905),  347. 

The  Young  Rangers  (1907),  347. 

With  Flintlock  and  Fife  (1903),  347. 

The  Camp-Fire  of  Mad  Anthony  (1907),  356. 

Mad  Anthony's  Young  Scout  (1908),  356. 

The  Rider  of  the  Black  Horse  (1904),  358. 

The  Red  Chief  (1905),  358. 

Marching  Against  the  Iroquois  (1906),  359. 

The  War  of  1812  (1906),  379. 

For  the  Stars  and  Stripes  (1909),  396. 

The  Young  Blockaders  (1910),  396. 
TOUDOUZE,  Gustave  and  Georges. 

La  Sorciere  du  Vesuve  (1907),  377. 
TOWNSHEND,  Dorothea. 

A  St.  George  of  King  Charles'  Days  (1906),  320. 


490  SUPPLEMENT. 

TRACY,  Louis. 

Heart's  Delight  (The  Great  Mogul)  (1905),  307. 
"  TRAVERS,  Graham  "  (Margaret  G.  Todd,  M.D.). 

Growth  (1906),  420. 
TRAVERS,  Libbie  Miller. 

The  Honor  of  a  Lee  (1908),  394. 
TREVELYAN,  Marie  (Mrs.  Paslieu). 

Britain's  Greatness  Foretold  (1900),  245. 
TROWBRIDGE,  W.  R.  H. 

The  Little  Marquis  of  Brandenburg  (1904),  349. 
TRUE,  John  Preston. 

Scouting  for  Washington  (1900),  357. 

Morgan's  Men  (1901),  357. 

The  Iron  Star  (1899),  407. 
TUCKER,  Miss  Charlotte  Maria,  1821-93. 

The  Blacksmith  of  Boniface  Lane  (1891),  281. 
TUPPER,  Edith  Sessions, 

Hearts  Triumphant  (1906),  375. 
TWELLS,  Julia  H. 

Et  Tu  Sejane  (1904),  243. 
TYLEE,  Edward  S. 

The  Red  Cap  (1908),  362. 
"  TYTLER,  Sarah."     (See  Keddie,  Henrietta.) 

U 
UPTON,  George  Putnam,  b.  1834. 

Life  Stories  for  Young  People  (1907,  &c.),  243. 


VALENTINE,  Edward  Uffington,  b.  1870. 

Hecla  Sandwith  (1905),  418. 
VALLINGS,  Harold. 

The  Lady  Mary  of  Tavistock  (1908),  309. 
VANCE,  Wilson. 

Big  John  Baldwin  (1909),  320. 
VAUGHAN,  Gwyneth. 

O  Gorlannau  y  Defaid  (1905),  392. 
VAUGHAN,  Captain  Owen. 

Sweet  Rogues  (1907),  318. 

The  Jewel  of  Ynys  Galon  (1895),  411. 
VEVERS,  Maud. 

Lettice  Temple  (1900),  328. 

W 
WAGNALLS,  Mabel. 

The  Palace  of  Danger  (1908),  351. 


SUPPLEMENT.  491 

WAIGHT,  J.  F. 

King  of  the  Barons  (1908),  272. 
WALKER,  Frances  M.  Cotton. 

Cloister  to  Court  (1909),  296. 
WALKEY,  S. 

The  Lovers  of  Lorraine  (1904),  334. 

Yo  Ho  !  For  the  Spanish  Main  (1910),  411. 
WALLACE,  Helen. 

To  Pleasure  Madame  (The  Sons  of  the  Seigneur)  (1907),  319. 
WALSHE,  E.  H. 

The  Foster-Brothers  of  Doon  (1906),  369. 
WARD,  F. 

Wolfingham  (c.  1860),  370. 

The  Catechumens  of  the  Coromandel  Coast  (c.  1860),  384. 

Rose  and  Minnie  (c.  1860),  388. 
WARDE,  Evelyn  B. 

Elena  (1910),  289. 
WARE,  William. 

Julian  (1841),  247. 
WARREN,  C.  E. 

The  Musket  Boys  of  Old  Boston  (1909),  355. 

The  Musket  Boys  under  Washington  (1909),  355. 
WARRY,  C.  King. 

The  Sentinel  of  Wessex  (1904),  373. 
WATERLOO,  Stanley. 

The  Story  of  Ab  (1897),  407. 
WATSON,  Mrs.  Herbert. 

Andrew  Goodfellow  (1906),  372. 
WATSON,  H.  B.  Marriott,  b.  1863. 

Galloping  Dick  (1896),  330. 

The  High  Toby  (1906),  330. 

The  King's  Highway  (1910),  330. 

Twisted  Eglantine  (1905),  378. 
WATSON,  Rev.  John,  1850-1907. 

Graham  of  Claverhouse  (1908),  332. 
WATT,  L.  M. 

Edragil,  1745  (1907),  343. 
WATTS,  Mary  S. 

Nathan  Burke  (1910),  417. 
WAY,  A.  S. 

David  the  Captain  (1904),  240. 
WEAVER,  Emily. 

Prince  Rupert's  Namesake  (1894),  323. 
WEBB,  Mrs.  J.  B.  (afterwards  Mrs.  Webb-Peploe), 

Naomi  (1841),  246. 
WEBSTER,  Henry  K. 

Traitor  or  Loyalist  (1904),  396. 


492  SUPPLEMENT. 

WENTWORTH,  Patricia. 

A  Marriage  Under  the  Terror  (1910),  363. 

A  Little  More  than  Kin  (More  than  Kin)  (1911),  363. 
WESTERMAN,  Percy  F. 

A  Lad  of  Grit  (1908),  325. 
WESTOVER,  Clyde  C. 

The  Romance  of  Gentle  Will  (1905),  302. 
WEYMAN,  Stanley  J.,  b.  1855. 

The  Abbess  of  Vlaye  (1904),  306. 

The  Wild  Geese  (1908),  339. 

Starvecrow  Farm  (1905),  384. 

Chippinge  (Chippinge  Borough)  (1906),  386. 

Sophia  (1900),  412. 
WHEELWRIGHT,  j.  Tyler. 

War  Children  (1908),  397. 
WHISHAW,  F. 

The  Tiger  of  Muscovy  (1904),  306. 

Once  Bitten,  Twice  Shy  (1910),  335. 

An  Empress  in  Love  (1910),  354. 

Moscow  (1905),  382. 
"  WHISPER,  A." 

King  and  Captive  (1910),  239. 

Black  Mark  (1909),  344. 
WHISTLER,  Charles  W.,  b.  1856. 

A  Prince  of  Cornwall  (1904).  257. 

A  King's  Comrade  (1906),  258. 

A  Prince  Errant  (1908),  258. 

A  Sea  Queen's  Sailing  (1907),  260. 

Gerald  the  Sheriff  (1906),  264. 
WHITE,  Stewart  Edward,  b.  1873. 

The  Blazed  Trail  (1902),  419. 

The  Riverman  (1908),  419. 
WHITHAM,  Grace  I. 

Sir  Sleep- A  wake  and  His  Brother  (1908),  269. 

The  Red  Knight  (191°),  277. 

Squire  and  Page  (1906),  282. 

Basil  the  Page  (1908),  299. 

His  Majesty's  Glove  (1909),  318. 

The  Last  of  the  White  Coats  (1905),  319. 
WHITING,  Mary  B. 

The  Plough  of  Shame  (1906),  295. 
WIGGIN,  Kate  Douglas  (Mrs.  George  Riggs),  b.  1857. 

The  Old  Peabody  Pew  (1907),  418. 
WILBRAHAM,  Frances  M. 

The  Queen's  Badge  (  1878),  285. 


SUPPLEMENT.  493 

WILEY,  Belle,  and  Grace  W.  Edick. 

Children  of  the  Cliff  (1905),  407. 
Lodrix  the  Little  Lake  Dweller  (1904),  407. 
WILFORD,  Florence. 

The  King  of  a  Day  (1868),  282. 
WILLARD,  Rachel. 

Catharine  Douglas  (1905),  283. 
WILLIAMS,  Jun.,  Egerton  R. 

Ridolfo :   the  Coming  of  the  Dawn  (1906),  284. 
WILLIAMS,  H.  Noel. 

The  Hand  of  Leonore  (1904),  351. 
WILLIAMS,  R. 

Memoirs  of  a  Buccaneer  (1909),  321; 
WILLYS,  A.  A. 

The  Swiss  Heroes  (1907),  287. 
WILSON,  Mary  J. 

The  Knight  of  the  Needle  Rock  (1905),  302. 
WINSLOW,  W.  H. 

Southern  Buds  and  Sons  of  War  (1907).  398. 
WOOD,  Frances. 

For  an  Atonement  (1905),  240. 
WOOD,  L.  C. 

For  a  Free  Conscience  (1905),  323. 
WOOD,  Warren. 

The  Tragedy  of  the  Deserted  Isle  (1909),  375. 
WOODS,  Margaret  L.,  b.  1856. 

The  King's  Revoke  (1905),  381. 
WYNNE,  Frida. 

The  Profligates  (1906),  323. 
WYNNE,  G.  Robert. 

Ballinvalley  (1896),  369. 
"  WYNNE,  May  "  (Miss  M.  W.  Knowles). 

Let  Erin  Remember  (1908),  266. 

A  King's  Tragedy  (1905),  283. 

The  Tailor  of  Vitre  (The  Gipsy  Count)  (1908),  288. 

A  Maid  of  Brittany  (1906),  288. 

A  King's  Masquerade  (1910),  294. 

For  Church  and  Chieftain  (1909),  301. 

For  Faith  and  Navarre  (Henry  of  Navarre)  (1904),  304. 

Ronald  Lindsay  (1904),  332. 

Mistress  Cynthia  (1910),  342. 

For  Charles  the  Rover  (1909),  344. 

A  Blot  on  the  Scutcheon  (1910),  360. 

When  Terror  Ruled  (1907),  362. 


494  SUPPLEMENT. 

Y 
YEATS,  S.  Levett. 

Orrain  (1904),  296. 
YOLLAND,  G. 

Under  the  Stars  (1907),  393. 
YONGE,  Charlotte  M.,  1823-1901. 

The  Patriots  of  Palestine  (1889),  242. 

The  Slaves  of  Sabinus  (1890),  247. 

The  Cook  and  the  Captive  (1895),  253. 

The  Constable's  Tower  (1891),  270. 

The  Wardship  of  Steepcombe  (1888),  278. 

The  Herd  Boy  and  His  Hermit  (1900),  285. 

Under  the  Storm  (1887),  319. 

The  Cunning  Woman's  Grandson  (1890),  352. 

The  Carbonels  (1896),  417. 
YOUNG,  Margaret. 

The  Wreathed  Dagger  (1909),  318. 
YOXALL,  Sir  James  Henry,  b.  1857. 

Beyond  the  Wall  (1906),  354. 


Z 
ZOLA,  Emile,  1840-1902. 

The  Attack  on  the  Mill  (L'Attaque  du  Moulin)  (1880),  401. 
ZOLLINGER,  Gulielma. 

A  Boy's  Ride  (1909),  269. 

The  Rout  of  the  Foreigner  (1910),  271. 


INDEX   OF   TITLES 

(SUPPLEMENT); 


INDEX   OF   TITLES. 


Abbess  of  Vlaye,  306. 

Abbot's  Bridge,  276. 

Accolade  (The),  278. 

Across  the  Spanish  Main,  298. 

Adnah,  243. 

Adria,  389. 

Adventures  of  an  Equerry,  326. 

Adventures  of  Count  O'Connor, 

328. 

Adventures  of  Denis,  342. 
Adventures      of      Dick       Tre- 

vanion,  373. 
Adventures  of  Harry  Rochester, 

336. 
Adventures  of  HumfreyChatteris, 

273- 

Adventures  of  Lady  Susan,  368. 
Adventures  of  Timothy,  315. 
jEmilius,  249: 
Affair  of  Dishonour,  323. 
After  Many  Days,  254. 
Against  the  Stream,  377. 
Agnes  de  Tracy,  266. 
Agnes  Martin,  292. 
Ailsa  Paige,  394. 
Alan's  Vow,  269. 
Albigenses  (The),  271. 
Alexander  and  Roxana,  241. 
Alexander  the  King,  241. 
Alexander  the  Prince,  241. 
Alice  of  Fobbing,  279. 
Alkibiades,  241. 
All  for  the  Love  of  a  Lady,  311. 
Alleluia  Battle,  252. 
Amazing  Duke,  324. 
Amber  Witch,  312. 
America    and      our      Colonies, 

308,  etc. 
American  in  Paris,  401. 


American  Patty,  380. 
American  Prisoner,  379. 
Ampthill  Towers,  292. 
Amulet  (The),  349. 
Amyas  Egerton  Cavalier,  315. 
Andre-Ernest-Modeste      Gretry, 

Musicien,  350. 
Andreds-Weald,  262. 
Andrew  Goodfellow,  372. 
Andrew  Marvel  and  His  Friends, 

310 

Angel  of  the  Fen,  257. 
Angel  Unawares,  254. 
Angels  of  Messer  Ercole,  288. 
Anne  Nelson,  357. 
Anne  of  Argyle,  319. 
Anne-Queen's  Chronicle,  293. 
Anthony  Wilding,  330. 
Antonio,  387. 
Apprentice  (The),  384. 
Arethusa,  278. 
Ark  of  1803,  374. 
Ark  of  the  Curse,  305. 
Armadin,  265. 
Arms  and  the  Maid,  330. 
Arnold's  Tempter,  359. 
Arnoul  the  Englishman,  273. 
Arrow  of  the  North,  294. 
Arrows  of  Ambition,  313. 
As  it  Happened,  353. 
As  we  Sweep  through  the  Deep, 

367- 

Ascensiontide  Dream,    257. 
Asia  and  Africa,  249,  etc. 
Assyrian  Bride,  240. 
Astrologer's  Daughter,  241. 
At  Aboukir  and  Acre,     67 
At  All  Hazards,  329. 
At  Lathom's  Siege,  317. 
At  Odds   with  the  Regent,  341. 
At  Sunrise,  245. 


497 


SUPPLEMENT. 


At  the  King's  Right  Hand,  259. 
At  the  Point  of  the  Bayonet,  374. 
At  the  Sign  of  the  Golden  Fleece, 

292. 
At     the    Sign    of    the    Queen 

Pedauque,  412. 
Attack  on  the  Mill,  401. 
Attaque  du  Moulin,  401. 
Attila  and  His  Conqueror,  252. 
Aubrey  de  1'Orme,  264. 
Auriel  Selwode,  337. 
Autour  d'une  Tiare,  264. 
Avenger  of  Blood,  257. 
Aylmer  Court,  314. 
Azalim,  240. 


Back  o'  the  Moon,  413. 
Baldwin  of  Jerusalem,  265. 
Ballinvalley,  369. 
Barabbas,  243. 
Barclay  of  the  Guides,  392. 
Bardelys  the  Magnificent,  311. 
Basil  the  Page,  299. 
Basset,  418. 

Battle  in  the  West,  256. 
Battle  of  New  York,  397. 
Battling  for  Atlanta,  395. 
Bearer  of  Despatches,  316. 
Beatrice  of  Venice,  366. 
Beatrix  of  Clare,  286. 
Beau  Brocade,  344. 
Beaujeu,  328. 
Beautiful  Rebel,  380. 
Beauty  Retire,  330. 
Before  the  Crisis,  393. 
Beggars'  Luck,  322. 
Behind  the  Veil,  263. 
Belfry  of  St.  Jude,  400. 
Belle  of  Bowling  Green,  381. 
Bembo,  287. 
Ben  Brace,  367. 
Ben  Tobit,  244. 
Benbonuna,  418. 
Bernicia,  346. 
Bertrand  Duguesclin,  275. 


Bertrand  of  Brittany,  277. 
Bess  of  the  Woods,  413. 
Betrayal  of  Mistress  Donis,  303. 
Between  two  Crusades,  267. 
Beyond  Man's  Strength,  388. 
Beyond  the  Wall,  354. 
Bible  and  Sword,  33 1 . 
Bid  for  Loyalty,  400. 
Big  John  Baldwin,  320. 
Binding  of  the  Strong,  310. 
Black  Cuirassier,  313. 
Black  Danes,  259. 
Black  Friday,  399. 
Black  Magic,  409. 
Black  Mark,  344. 
Black  Partridge,  380. 
Black  Pilgrim,  376. 
Blacksmith    of  Boniface  Lane, 

281. 

Blazed  Trail,  419. 
Blot  on  the  Scutcheon,  360. 
Blue  and  Green,  253. 
Blue  and  Grey,  395. 
Blue  Dragon,  289. 
Blue  Ocean's  Daughter,  360. 
Bob  Hampton  of  Placer,  402. 
Bog  of  Stars,  301. 
Bonnie  Prince  Charlie,  341. 
Bottle  in  the  Smoke,  267. 
Boy  and  the  Baron,  274. 
Boy  Bondsman,  339. 
Boy   Captive   of   Old  Deerfield, 

338. 

Boy  Courier  of  Napoleon,  375 
Boy  Forty-niners,  391. 
Boy  Tars  of  1812,  380. 
Boy's  Ride,  269. 
Boys  and  Girls  of  '77,  358. 
Boys  of  Baltimore,  309. 
Boys  of  the  Border,  347. 
Boys  of  the  Light  Brigade,  381. 
Brakespeare,  276. 
Brave  Dame  Mary,  260. 
Brave  Heart  Series,  380. 
Brave  Sidney  Somers,  306. 
Bravest   Gentleman  in  France, 

3"- 


SUPPLEMENT. 


499 


Brazenhead  the  Great,  285. 

Brethren  (The),  267. 

Brian  Fitz  Count,  265. 

Brian  of  Munster,  260. 

Bride  of  Ramcuttah,  295. 

Bright  Face  of  Danger,  308. 

Bristol  Diamonds,  351. 

Britain's  Greatness  Foretold,  245. 

British  Legion,  387. 

Broad  Highway,  417. 

Broken  Sword,  331. 

Bronson  of  the  Rabble,  381. 

Brothers  Five,  302. 

Brothers-in-Arms,  267. 

Brothers  of  Peril,  411. 

Brown,  383. 

Brown  Mask,  329. 

Bryda,  392. 

Buondelmonte's  Saga,  409. 

Burning  Cresset,  339. 

By  Conduct  and  Courage,  366. 

By  Neva's  Waters,  376. 

By  Sheer  Pluck,  402. 

By  Thames  and  Tiber,  246 . 

By  the  Eternal,  379. 

By  the  Gods  Beloved,  408. 

By  the  King  and  Queen,  245. 

By  What  Authority,  298. 

By  Wild  Waves  Tossed,  380. 


Cache  la  Poudre,  401. 
Cadet-la- Perle,  311. 
Calvert  of  Maryland,  311. 
Cameron  of  Lochiel,  347. 
Camp-Fire  of  Mad  Anthony,  356. 
Captain  Courtesy,  390. 
Captain  Dallington,  337. 
Captain  John  Lister,  314. 
Captain  Kirke  Webbe,  382. 
Captain  Latymer,  318. 
Captain  Love,  340. 
Captain  Macartney,  337. 
Captain  Margaret,  330. 
Captain  of  Irregulars,  385. 


Captain  of  Men,  240. 

Captain  Phil,  397. 

Captain  Ravenshaw,  302. 

Captain  Swing,  386. 

Captain   Wyvern's   Adventures, 

Si?- 

Captive  of  the  Corsairs,  303. 
Car  of  Phoebus,  408. 
Carbonels  (The),  417. 
Cardillac,  308. 
Cardinal's  Past,  312. 
Cardinal's  Pawn,  306. 
Carette  of  Sark,  371. 
Carlota,  390. 
Carlyles  (The),  398. 
Caroline,  413. 
Carried  Off,  326. 
Castaway  (The),  385. 
Castel  del  Monte,  274. 
Castle  Meadow,  352. 
Cat  of  Bubastes,  239. 
Catechumens  of  the  Coromandel 

Coast,  384. 

Catharine  Douglas,  283. 
Cavalier  and  Covenant,  319. 
Cavalier  of  Virginia,  412. 
Cave  in  the  Hills,  251. 
Centurion's  Story,  247. 
Chancellor's  Spy,  292. 
Chances  of  War,  316. 
Chanoinesse  (La),  361. 
Chariots  of  the  Lord,  330. 
Charles  of  Sweden,  335. 
Check  to  the  King,  331. 
Checkmate,  325. 
Cherry  Ribband,  331: 
Chevalier  de  Puyjalou,  341. 
Chief's  Daughter,  308. 
Chien  d'Or,  334. 
Child  of  the  Lighthouse,  372. 
Childhood  of  Offa,  257. 
Children  of  the  Cliff,  407. 
Children's  Crusade,  270. 
Chippinge,  386. 
Chippinge  Borough,  386. 
Chivalric  Days,  242,  etc. 
Chloe  finds  a  Conscience,  415. 


500 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Chosen  (The),  414. 

Chris  Cunningham,  367. 

Christian,  But  a  Roman,  249. 

Church  and  the  King,  293. 

Cid  Campeador,  408. 

City  and  the  Castle,  290. 

City  of  Delight,  246. 

City  of  Six,  391. 

Clansman  (The),  398. 

Claud  the  Archer,  282. 

Clean  Hands,  293. 

Cleburne  and  His  Command,  396. 

Clementina's  Highwayman,  344. 

Cleopatre,  242. 

Clevely  Sahib.  388. 

Cloister    of    the    Seven    Gates, 

280. 

Cloister  to  Court,  296. 
Clotilde,  375. 

Clutch  of  Circumstance,  408. 
Coates's  Colonial  Series,  326. 
Code  of  Victor  Jallot,   375. 
Coil  of  Carne,  391. 
Colonel  Greatheart,  316. 
Colonel  Kate,  343. 
Colonel  Stow,  316. 
Coming  of  Navarre,  305. 
Coming  of  the  King,  256. 
Coming  of  the  King,  323. 
Commander  of    the   Hirondelle, 

366. 

Company  of  Death,  322. 
Comrades  Four,  396. 
Conan  the  Wonder- Worker,  260. 
Coniston,  390. 
Conscience  of  a  King,  335. 
Constable's  Tower,  270. 
Constance  Trescot,  419. 
Contes  Historiques,  275,  etc. 
Continental  Dragoon,  359. 
Conversion  of  St,  Vladimir,  260. 
Convert  of  Massachusetts,  341. 
Cook  and  the  Captive,  253. 
Copernican  Convoy,  316. 
Coplestone  Cousins,  413. 
Coronation  (A),  299. 
Corporal  Sam,  381. 


Corporal  Sam  and  other  stories, 

3i6,  317 

Counterpart  (The),  397. 
Courage  of  Captain  Plum,  391. 
Court  Cards,  302. 
Court  Jester,  288. 
Court  of  Lucifer,  290. 
Court  of  Pilate,  247. 
Courtenay  of  Walreddon,  315. 
Cousin  Hugh,  416. 
Cousin  Isabel,  332. 
Crag-Nest,  398. 
Crimson  Conquest,  291. 
Cripple  of  Nuremberg,  295. 
Cromwell  of  Virginia,  326. 
Cross  and  Dagger,  270. 
Cross  and  the  Crown,  327. 
Cross  in  Sweden,  264. 
Cross  of  Honour,  376. 
Cross  Triumphant,  244. 
Crown  of  Pine,  245. 
Crowning  Hour,  410. 
Cruise  of  the  Angel,  303. 
Cruise  of  the  Golden  Fleece,  297. 
Crusade  of  St.  Louis,  273. 
Crushed  Yet  Conquering,  282. 
Cuckoo  (The),  296. 
Cunning    Woman's     Grandson, 

352. 

Cuthbert  Lord  of  Lowedale,  304. 
Czar  (The),  377. 


D 

Dacian  Virgin,  248. 
Dame  Joan  of  Pevensey,  280. 
Dan  Monroe,  357. 
Dangerous  Jewels,  364. 
Daniel  Boone,  360. 
Dareford,  393. 
Daughter  of  Gaul,  242. 
Daughter  of   the   Confederacy, 

397- 

Daughter  of  the  Druids,  250. 
Daughter  of  the  Manse,  417. 
Daughter  of  the  South,  398. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Daughters  of  Pola,  251. 
Daughters  of  Suffolk,  297. 
David  March,  325. 
David  the  Captain,  240. 
Days  before  History,  407. 
Days  of  Jeanne  d'Arc,  283. 
Dean's  Hall,  413. 
Dearer  than  Life,  278. 
Decatur  and  Soniers,  375. 
Decebal's  Daughter,  248. 
Declined  with  Thanks,  410. 
Deeds  of  Faith,  249. 
Defence  of  the  Rock,  352. 
Defender  of  the  Faith,  326. 
Defending  His  Flag,  397. 
De  Foix,  279. 
De  Hellingley,  267. 
Delia      at      a      Disadvantage, 

4i5- 

Demoiselle  of  France,  327. 
De  Montfort's  Squire,  272. 
Desperate  Venture,  363. 
Deutsche  Manner,  376. 
Devonshire  Lass,  297. 
Dew  of  their  Youth,  415. 
Diamond  Rock,  371. 
Diana  Polwarth,  320. 
Diane,  393. 
Diary  of  Brother  Bartholomew, 

265. 

Dick  o'  the  Fens,  415. 
Diplomatic  Adventure,  392. 
Disciple  of  a  Saint,  278. 
Discobol,  245. 
Divine  Minstrels,  271. 
Doctor  Adrian,  302. 
Dolphin  of  the  Sepulchre,  266. 
Don  Tarquinio,  289. 
Done  and  Dared  in  Old  France, 

335- 

Doomed  City,  246. 
Doomed  City,  254. 
Doomswoman  (The),  417. 
Dores  de  Gualdim,  313. 
Dorothy's  Spy,  357. 
Dove  of  Tabenna,  257,  258. 
Dragon  of  the  North,  262. 


Dragoon's  Wife,  327. 
Drapeau  ou  la  Foi,  399. 
Draw  in  your  Stool,  242. 
Dream  of  John  Ball,  279. 
Dream  of  Peace,  401. 
Dreamer  (The),  387. 
Dromina,  386. 
Druidess  (The),  254. 
Drums  of  War,  399. 
Dryad  (The),  275. 
Duchenier,  364. 
Dudley  Castle,  275. 
Duel  (The),  377. 
Duke's  Motto,  312. 
Duke's  Vengeance,  287. 
Duke's  Ward,  279. 
Dulcibel,  335. 


Eagle's  Nest,  354. 
Ealdorman's  Story,  260. 
Earl  Osric's  Minstrel,  409. 
Early  Victorian,  418. 
Easter  Victory,  252. 
Eastern  and  Northern  Europe, 

251,  etc. 
Edragil,  343. 
Edward  the  Martyr,  260. 
Edwin  the  Boy  Outlaw,  268. 
Egyptian  Wanderers,  250. 
Eldol  the  Druid,  245. 
Eleanor  Dayton,  399. 
Eleazar,  244. 
Elena,  289. 
Eleventh  Hour,  390. 
Elgiva,  262. 

Elinor  Arden  Royalist,  314. 
Elusive  Pimpernel,  362. 
Emigrant  Trail,  391. 
Empress  in  Love,  354. 
Enfant  d'Austerlitz,  377. 
Engel  the  Fearless,  409. 
England  Expects,  372. 
England  the  Early  Period,  251, 

etc. 


502 


SUPPLEMENT. 


England    the  Medieval  Period, 

260,  etc. 

England's  Elizabeth,  297. 
Eric  Brighteyes,  408. 
Escape  from  the  Tower,  339. 
Et  tu  Sejane,  243. 
Evanus,  251. 
Evelyn  Byrd,  419. 
Evenings  at   Sackville    College, 

249. 

Evil  May-Day,  292. 
Exiles  of  the  Cebenna,  249. 
Express  of  '76,  357. 
Extraordinary     Confessions     of 

Diana  Please,  367. 


Fags  and  the  King,  367. 

Failure  of  a  Hero,  301. 

Fair  Haven,  310. 

Fair  Haven  and  other  Stories, 

252,  etc. 

Fair  Maid  of  Greystones,  318. 
Fair  Margaret,  288. 
Fair  Martyr,  350. 
Fair  Moon  of  Bath,  343. 
Fair  Refugee,  365. 
Fair  Rosamond,  267. 
Fairleigh  Hall,  314. 
Fairmeadows  Farm,  329. 
Faith  of  Hilary  Lovel,  300. 
Faith's     First     Christmas     and 

other  stories,  250,  etc. 
Faithful  but  not  Famous,  290. 
Falaise  of  the  Blessed  Voice,  273. 
Falcon  King,  266. 
Fall  of  Anderida,  253. 
Fall  of  the  Grand  Sarrasin,  262. 
Fanshawe  of  the  Fifth,  368. 
Farm  of  Aptonga,  249. 
Fate  of  Castle  Lowengard,  291. 
Fated  to  Win,  255. 
Father  Felix's  Chronicles,  281. 
Favored  of  Baal,  242. 
Feast   of   Stories   from   Foreign 

Lands,  295,  etc. 


Felicita,  277. 

Fen  Robbers,  279. 

Field  of  Glory,  328. 

Fifth  Queen,  293. 

Fifth  Queen  Crowned,  294. 

50-40  or  Fight,  390. 

Fight  for  the  Valley,  358. 

Fighter  in  Green,  392. 

Fighters  (The),  382. 

Fighting  King  George,  359. 

Fighting  Lads  of  Devon,  300. 

Fighting  with  Fremont,  390. 

Fin  de  Tadmor,  249. 

Fire,  Snow,  and  Water,  420. 

Firelock  and  Steel,  382. 

First  Light  on  the  Eddystone, 

334- 

Fisher  of  Men,  256. 
Flame-Gatherers,  269. 
Fleur-de-Camp,  377. 
Flight  of  Georgiana,  343. 
Flight  of  the  Eagle,  301. 
Flood  Tide,  351. 
Florestane  the  Troubadour,  274. 
Flower  o'  the  Orange,  384. 
Flower  o'  the  Orange,  etc.,  301. 
Flower  of  Destiny,  255. 
Flower  of  Destiny,  399. 
Flower  of  Destiny,  etc.,  267,  etc. 
Flower  of  France,  283. 
Followers  of  the  Lord,  249. 
Fond  Adventures,  271,  etc. 
Fool  Errant,  411. 
For  a  Free  Conscience,  323. 
For  an  Atonement,  240. 
For  Charles  the  Rover,  344. 
For  Church  and  Chieftain,  301. 
For  Church  and  State,  269. 
For  Crown  and  Covenant,  331. 
For  Faith  and  Navarre,  304. 
For  James  or  George,  342. 
For  Kett  and  Countryside,  296. 
For  King  and  Home,  363. 
For  King  or  Country,  379. 
For  King  or  Parliament,  317. 
For  Love  and  Honour,  343. 
For  Love  and  Loyalty,  343. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


503 


For  Love  and  Ransom,  383. 

For  Name  and  Fame,  403. 

For  Prince  or  Pope,  331. 

For  Queen  and  Emperor,  245. 

For  Rupert  and  the  King,  315. 

For  the  Admiral,  304. 

For  the  Emperor,  382. 

For  the  Faith,  292. 

For  the  Honour  of  His  House, 

330- 

For  the  Liberty  of  Texas,  390. 
For  the  Soul  of  a  Witch,  294. 
For  the  Stars  and  Stripes,  396. 
For  the  Temple,  246. 
For  the  White  Christ,  258. 
For  the  White  Cockade,  343. 
For  Three  Kingdoms,   332. 
Force  (La),  377. 
Forerunner  (The),  310 
Forest  of  Arden,  292. 
Forest  Runners,  415. 
Forgotten  Door,  246. 
Forgotten  Hero,  275. 
Forgotten   Tales  of  Long    Ago, 

4M.  4!5- 

Forsaken  (The),  260. 
Fort  Amity,  348. 
Fort  in  the  Forest,  347. 
Fortuna  Chance,  342. 
Fortune,  410. 
Fortune-Hunter,  312. 
Fortune's  Castaway,  329. 
Fortunes  of  Col.  Torlogh  O'Brien, 

333- 

Fortunes  of  Farthings,  339. 
Foster-Brothers  of  Doon,  369. 
Fountain  Sealed,  345. 
Four  Sons,  241. 
France  and  Spain,  249,  etc. 
Frank  and  Saxon,  305. 
Frederick  of  Hohenstaufen,  270. 
Free  Rangers,  415. 
French  and  English,  347. 
French  Nan,  413. 
French  Prisoners,  400. 
Frenchman's  Creek,  416. 
Friar  Observant,  293. 


Friar  of  Orders  Grey,  272. 
Friedhelm,  270. 
Friends  though  Divided,  315. 
From  Atlanta  to  the  Sea,  395. 
From  Playground  to  Battlefield, 

383. 

From  the  Enemy's  Hand,  327. 
Frontiersmen  (The),  413. 
Fugitive  (The),  254. 


Gabrielle  Transgressor,  412. 

Gage  of  a  Princess,  250. 

Gage  of  Red  and  White,  296. 

Gallant  of  Gascony,  305. 

Galleon  Treasure,  335. 

Galloping  Dick,  330. 

Gaston  de  Latour,  304. 

Gates  of  Kamt,  408. 

Gayle  Langford,  357. 

Gendarme  of  the  King,  350. 

General  Nelson's  Scout,  395. 

Gens  d'Epinal,  283. 

Gentle  Knight  of  Old  Branden- 
burg, 350. 

Gentleman  (The),  372. 

Gentleman  of  England,  300. 

Gentleman  of  London,  373. 

Gentleman  of  Virginia,  363. 

George  I.,  340. 

Gerald  the  Sheriff,  264. 

Gianella,  418. 

Gigi  the  Hero  of  Sicily,  389. 

Giovanni  of  Florence,  289. 

Gipsy  Count,  288. 

Girl  I  left  Behind  Me,  417. 

Girl  of  the  Eighteenth  Century, 
368. 

Girl  Who  Won,  333. 

Glassmaker  of  Yarmouth,  371. 

Glaucia  the  Greek  Slave,  246. 

Glen  o*  Weeping,  332. 

Glenanaar,  385. 

Glenith,  352. 

Gloire  de  Don  Ramire,  306. 


504 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Glory  and  Sorrow  of  Norwich, 

276. 

Glory  of  His  Country,  419. 
God  of  Clay,  365. 
God  of  Love,  274. 
God's  Bairn,  310. 
God's  Providence  House,  368. 
Golden  Buckle,  324. 
Golden  Glory,  296. 
Golden  Hawk,  410. 
Golden  Hope,  242. 
Golden  Trust,  363. 
Goldsmith  of  Chepe,  324. 
Good  Shepherd,  262. 
Good  Sword  Belgarde,  269. 
Goodly  Pearl,  263. 
Gorgeous  Borgia,  289. 
Gorgeous  Isle,  417. 
Cowrie's  Vengeance,  307. 
Graham  of  Claverhouse,  332. 
Grand  Chagrin,  341. 
Great  Handwriting,  253. 
Great  Heart  Gillian,  400. 
Great  Mistake,  400. 
Great  Mogul,  307. 
Great  Proconsul,  353. 
Green  Mountain  Boys,  356. 
Grey  Domino,  306. 
"  Grey  Fox  "  of  Holland,  303. 
Grey  Man,  411. 
Growth,  420. 

Guillaume  Dupuytren,  354. 
Gytha's  Message,  262. 


H 

Half  Moon,  307. 
Hand  of  Leonore,  351. 
Hand  of  the  North,  307. 
Harold  the  Boy  Earl,  408. 
Harry  of  Athol,  281. 
Harry  of  Monmouth,  281. 
Hartland  Forest,  345. 
Hartley  House,  Calcutta,  353. 
Hassan  le  Janissaire,  290. 
Hawkwood  the  Brave,  278. 


Hazardous  Wooing,  372. 

He  Loved  but  One,  385. 

Head  of  Iron  348. 

Heart  of  Bosnia,  383. 

Heart  of  Hope,  398. 

Heart  of  Washington,  346. 

Heart's  Delight,  307. 

Heart's  Key,  271. 

Hearth  of  Button,  343. 

Hearts  of  Wales,  281. 

Hearts  Triumphant,  375. 

Hecla  Sandwith,  418. 

Heir  of  Treherne,  292. 

Held  by  Rebels,  285. 

Held  Fast  for  England,  352. 

Henry  de  Pomeroy,  269. 

Henry  of  Navarre,  304. 

Her  Faithful  Knight,  314. 

Herbert      Strang's       Historical 

Series,  263,  etc. 
Herbert  Tresham,  317. 
Herd  Boy  and  His  Hermit,  285. 
Hermann  and  Thusnelda,  243. 
Hermit  of  Livry,  290. 
Hermit  of  Livry,  291. 
Hero  in  the  Strife,  323. 
Hero  in  Wolf-skin,  248. 
Hero  of  Lucknow,  392. 
Hero  of  Sedan,  400. 
Herodias,  244. 
Heroine  of  France,  283. 
Hi-Spy-Hi,  378. 
High  Toby,  330. 
Highland  Mary,  353. 
Highway  Dust,  344. 
Hilda  Brave  Heart,  408. 
Hills  of  Home,  344. 
His  Eminence,  366. 
His  Indolence  of  Arras,  327. 
His  Majesty's  Glove,  318. 
His    Majesty's    Sloop    Diamond 

Rock,  371. 

His  Most  Dear  Laclye,  307. 
Historic  Boys,  248,  etc. 
Historical  Romances  for  Young 

People,  256. 
Historical  Vignettes,  267,  etc. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


505 


History  of  Ay  than  Waring,  417. 
History  of  Margaret  Catchpole, 

369- 

History  of  Richard  Raynal,  285. 
Holborn  Hill,  372. 
Home  Coming,  253. 
Honor  of  a  Lee,  394. 
Honour  before  Honours,  328. 
Honour  of  Henri  de  Valois,  386. 
Horsemen  of  the  Plains,  402. 
Hostage  for  a  Kingdom,  401. 
House  of  Torment,  297. 
House  of  Walderne,  272. 
House  on  Cherry  Street,  341. 
House  with  the  Dragon  Gates, 

344- 

How  Canada  was  Won,  347. 
How  Nechtan  kept  his  Vow,  254. 
How  the  King  passed  by,  259. 
Hugh  the  Messenger,  276. 
Humphrey  Bold,  336. 
Hundred  Days,  383. 
Hurrah  for  the  Spanish  Main, 

299. 


I  Will  Maintain,  326. 

I  Will  Repay,  362. 

Ian  of  the  Orcades,  280. 

Idol  of  the  King,  345. 

If  Youth  but  Knew,  381. 

Ifor  Owain,  310. 

Imogen,  255. 

Impostor  (The),  349. 

Imprisoned  Midshipman,  376. 

In  Circling  Camps,  395. 

In  Clive's  Command,  349. 

In  Dewisland,  388. 

In  Four  Reigns,  352. 

In  Greek  Waters,  385. 

In  Leisler's  Times,  335. 

In  Mary's  Reign,  297. 

In  Mortal  Peril,  301. 

In  Nelson's  Day,  371. 

In  Nelson's  Day,  372. 


In  Northern  Seas,  275. 

In  Old  Bellaire,  395. 

In  Sarsfield's  Days,  333. 

In  Search  of  Jehanne,  305. 

In  Steel  and  Leather,  286. 

In  Texas  with  Davy   Crockett, 

387- 

In  the  Boyhood  of  Lincoln,  386. 
In  the  Days  of  Drake,  299. 
In  the  Days  of  Jefferson,  355. 
In  the  Days  of  Luther,  291. 
In  the  Days  of  Nelson,  367. 
In    the   Days  of    the    Gironde, 

363- 

In  the  Dictator's  Grip,  381. 
In  the  Face  of  Night,  296. 
In  the  Fifteen,  338. 
In  the  Grip  of  the  Hawk,  393. 
In  the  Grip  of  the  Spaniard,  385. 
In  the  Iron  Time,  315. 
In  the  Lion's  Mouth,  362. 
In  the  Name  of  Liberty,  363. 
In  the  New  Forest,  263. 
In  the  Queen's  Service,  298. 
In  the  Reign  of  Terror,  362. 
In  the  Shadow  of  the  Lord,  346. 
In  the  Smoke  of  War,  317. 
In  the  Straits  of  Time,  327. 
In  the  Trenches,  392. 
In  the  Van  of  the  Vikings,   260. 
In  the  Wasp's  Nest,  380. 
In  the  Western  Woods,  338. 
In  Time  of  War,  401. 
In  Treaty  with  Honour,  387. 
In  Wild  Maratha  Battle,  328. 
Ina,  403. 

Incomparable  Bellairs,  345. 
Indian  and  Scout,  391. 
Infamous  John  Friend,  374. 
Infidel  (The),  346. 
Innocent  Masqueraders,  351. 
Interloper  (The),  415. 
Into  the  Dark,  256. 
Invaders  of  Fairford,  316. 
lone  Chaloner,  342. 
Iron  Game,  399. 
Iron  Star,  407. 


506 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Iron  Way,  398. 

Isabeau's  Hero,  336. 

Isidro,  417. 

Iskander,  241. 

Island  of  Enchantment,  277. 

Island  of  the  Blest,  254. 

Island  Providence,  331. 

Issue  (The),  389. 

Italian  (The),  353. 

Ixtlil'  of  Tezcuco,  291 . 


J 


Jack  Hardy,  373. 
Jacob  and  John,  412. 
Jacobite  Admiral,  339. 
Jacqueline       of      the       Carrier 

Pigeons,  303. 
Jane  Shore,  286. 
Jardinier  de  la  Pompadour,  351. 
Jay  of  Italy,  287. 
Jean-Baptiste    Greuze    Peintre, 

350- 

Jehanne  of  the  Golden  Lips,  277. 
Jemmy  Abercraw,  346. 
Jenkyn  Clyffe  Bedesman,  282. 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  243. 
Jesus  the  Carpenter  of  Nazareth, 

243- 

Jewel  of  Ynys  Galon,  411. 

Jezebel's  Husband,  240. 

Joan  of  the  Sword  Hand,  287. 

Joan  the  Maid,  283. 

Joel  a  Boy  of  Galilee,  247. 

John  Brown  Buccaneer,  308. 

John  Goodchild,  388. 

John  Knox's  Bairns,  296. 

John  o'  Jamestown,  308. 

John  Rigdon,  393. 

John     Smith     Gentleman     Ad- 
venturer, 308 

Jones  of  the  64th,  374. 

Jorn  Uhl,  400. 

Joseph  Vance,  418. 

Josephine's  Troubles,  399. 

Journey  through  the  Air,  295. 


Judaeus  Procurator,  247. 

Judas  Iscariot,  244. 

Judges'  Cave,  321. 

Judith  Triumphant,  240. 

Julian,  247 

Juliette,  377. 

Justice  of  the  King,  288. 


Kedar  Kross,  389. 
Keepers  of  England,  259. 
Kentuckians  (The),  419. 
Key  of  Paradise,  414. 
Kincaid's  Battery,  394. 
King  and  Captive,  239. 
King  Colley,  340. 
King  of  a  Day,  282. 
King  of  the  Barons,  272. 
King  Penda's  Captain,  256. 
King  Stork  of  the  Netherlands, 

3°3- 

King  Who  was  Never  Crowned, 

286. 

King's  Achievement,  293. 
King's  Business,  266. 
King's  Cause,  318. 
King's  Champion,  333. 
King's  Cockade,  363. 
King's  Comrade,  258. 
King's  Daughters,  240. 
King's  Ferry,  415. 
King's  Fool,  409. 
King's  Guerdon,  323. 
King's  Guide,  272. 
King's  Highway,  330. 
King's  House,  252. 
King's  Liege,  310. 
King's  Mark,  355. 
King's  Masquerade,  294. 
King's  Mignon,  305. 
King's  Revoke,  381. 
King's  Scapegoat,  288. 
King's  Service,  313. 
King's  Signet,  320. 
King's  Spy,  333. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


507 


King's  Stirrup,  264. 
King's  Thcgn,  258. 
King's  Tragedy,  283. 
King's  Treachery,  304. 
Kinsman  and  Namesake,  281. 
Kirke  Webbe,  382. 
Kitwyk,  415. 
Knight  of  God,  301. 
Knight  of  Gywnne,  369. 
Knight  of  Poland,  393. 
Knight  of  St.  John,  303. 
Knight  of  the  Cave,  265. 
Knight  of   the  Golden   Sword, 

332. 

Knight  of  the  Needle  Rock,  302. 
Knight  of  the  White  Cross,  286. 
Knight  of  the  Wilderness,  387. 
Knighthood's  Flower,  312. 
Knights  of  Liberty,  383. 
Knights  of  the  Road,  352. 
Knights  of  the  White  Rose,  332. 
Knitting  of  the  Souls,  326. 


Lad  of  Grit,  325. 

Lad  of  London  Town,  323. 

Ladder  of  Swords,  300. 

Lads  of  the  Light  Division,  381. 

Lady  Alda's  Pilgrimage,  276. 

Lady  Dear,  288. 

Lady  Fabia,  373. 

Lady  Good-for-Nothing,  348. 

Lady  Mary  of  Tavistock,  309. 

Lady  of  Blossholme,  293. 

Lady  of  France,  275. 

Lady  of  Hirta,  342. 

Lady  of   King  Arthur's  Court, 

408. 

Lady  of  Loyalty  House,  314. 
Lady  of  Lynn,  412. 
Lady  of  Lyte,  325. 
Lady  of  Mettle,  333. 
Lady  of  Tripoli,  265. 
Lady  of  the  Mount,  361. 
Lady  of  the  Spur,  386. 


Lady  of  the  Well,  271. 
Ladye  of  Lydlinch,  262. 
Laird's  Legacy,  337. 
Lame  Englishman,  389. 
Lamp  and  the  Guitar,  382. 
Land  of  Bondage,  340. 
Lapsed,  but  not  Lost,  249. 
Lapsed,  not  Lost,  249. 
Larache,  305. 
Lark's  Carol,  256. 
Lass  of  Dorchester,  338. 
Last  Abbot  of  Glastonbury,  292. 
Last  Days  of  John  Hus,  282. 
Last  Duchess  of  Belgarde,?36i. 
Last     Emperor     of     the     Old 

Dominion,  326. 
Last  Hope,  388. 
Last  of  Her  Race,  337. 
Last  of  the  Chiefs,  402. 
Last  of  the  Fatimites,  267. 
Last  of  the  Houghtons,  396. 
Last  of  the  Peshwas,  384. 
Last  of  the  White  Coats,  319. 
Laurel  Token,  338. 
Lauristons,  377. 
Lazar  House  of  Leros,  313. 
Lazy  Rudolf,  410. 
Lead  of  Honour,  417. 
Lemuel  of  the  Left  Hand,  240. 
Lent  Legends,  249. 
Leo  of  Mediolanum,  252. 
Leopard  and  the  Lily,  284. 
Leopard's  Spots,  398. 
Leroux,  366. 

Let  Erin  Remember,  266. 
Lettice  Temple,  328. 
Lewis  Rand,  375. 
Liberty  or  Death,  356. 
Life   and    Adventures   of   Lady 

Anne,  415. 
Life  Perilous,  350. 
Life  Stories  for  Young  People, 

243- 

Life's  Anchor,  351. 
Light  Brigade  in  Spain,  381. 
Light  of  Scarthey,  378. 
Lily  of  Tiflis,  257. 


508 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Lincoln  Conscript,  395. 

Lindsay's  Love,  399. 

Lion  Heart,  268. 

Lion  of  De  Montfort,  272. 

Lion's  Skin,  340. 

Little  Betty  Blew   338. 

Little  Blue  Lady,  360. 

Little  Blue  Lady,  &c.,  403,  410. 

Little  Candle,  332. 

Little  Count  Paul,  361. 

Little  France,  348. 

Little  Green  Door,  311. 

Little  King,  322. 

Little  Lady,  etc.,  348. 

Little  Lord  of  the  Manor,  359. 

Little  Maid  of  Boston  Town,  355. 

Little  Maid  of  Concord  Town, 

356. 
Little  Marquis  of  Brandenburg, 

349- 

Little  More  than  Kin,  363. 
Little  Puritan's  First  Christmas, 

326. 

Little  Shepherd  of  Provence,  409. 
Little  Step- Daughter,  341. 
Little  Traitor  to  the  South,  396. 
Little  Union  Scout,  398. 
Lodging  for  the  Night,  284. 
Lodrix  the  Little  Lake  Dweller, 

407. 

Lone  Star,  387. 
Lonely  Guard,  350. 
Long  Bridge  Boys,  394. 
Long  Knives,  359. 
Long  Roll,  396. 
Longshoremen  (The),  416. 
Lord  Edward  Fitzgerald,  369. 
Lord  of  Lowedale,  304. 
Lord  of  the  Marches,  280. 
Loser  Pays,  362. 
Lost  Earldom,  331. 
Lost  Empire,  366. 
Lost  Endeavour,  411. 
Lost  King,  365. 
Lost  Land,  414. 
Louis  of  Bourbon,  322. 
Louis  XIV.,  336. 


Love  among  the  Ruins,  409. 

Love  at  Arms,  290. 

Love  Besieged,  392. 

Love  Chase,  410. 

Love  in  Ancient  Days,  254. 

Love  is  Life,  332. 

Love  is  the  Sum  of  it  All,  419. 

Love  Story  of  Giraldus,  266. 

Love  Story  of  St.  Bel,  278. 

Love  that  Prevailed,  346. 

Love  Triumphant,  244. 

Love  While  Ye  May,  298. 

Lovers  of  Lorraine,  334. 

Lovers  of  Yvonne,  322. 

Loyal  Hearts  and  True,  300. 

Loyal  Maid,  343. 

Loyal  Traitor,  379. 

Loyalists  of  Massachusetts,  360. 

Lucia's  Marriage,  249. 

Luck  of  Chervil,  286. 

Luck  of  Ledge  Point,  373. 

Lux  Crucis,  247. 


M 

Mad   Anthony's   Young    Scout, 

356. 

Mad  Barbara,  324. 
Madame  will  you  Walk,  337. 
Mademoiselle  Celeste,  362. 
Magada  (The),  288. 
Magic  Casements,  285. 
Magnus  Sinclair,  318. 
Maid  Margaret,  283. 
Maid  Molly,  317. 
Maid  of  Athens,  385. 
Maid  of  Brittany,  288. 
Maid  of  Normandy,  336. 
Maid  of  Salem  Town,  335. 
Maid  of  the  Mohawk,  358. 
Major  Weir,  319. 
Making   of   Our  Nation  Series, 

375- 

Malcolm  Canmore  s  Pearl,  263. 
Man  at  Odds,  344. 
Man  of  Destiny,  389. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


509 


Man  of  Sark,  371. 

Manassas,  394. 

Mantle  of  the  Emperor,  388. 

Maori  and  Settler,  393. 

Marcelle,  334. 

Marcelle  the  Mad,  287. 

Marching  Against  the  Iroquois, 

359- 

Marching  with  Morgan,  357. 
Marcia  Schuyler,  417. 
Marcus  and  Faustina,  248. 
Marcus  of  Rome,  248. 
Marcus  or  the  Young  Centurion, 

242. 

Margaret  of  Anjou,  285. 
Margaret  Somerset,  325. 
Mariage  d' Agnes,  401. 
Marie  Petit,  336. 
Mariner  of  England,  299. 
Mark's  Wedding,  282. 
Marquis'  Heir,  361. 
Marriage  under  the  Terror,  363. 
Married  in  India,  420. 
Martin  Hyde,  329. 
Martin  the  Mummer,  284. 
Martyr's  Victory,  259. 
Mary  of  Magdala,  247. 
Mary  of  Plymouth,  311. 
Mary  Paget,  307. 
Master  Builder,  280. 
Master  Girl,  407. 
Master  of  Stair   332. 
Mavis  and  the  Merlin,  303. 
Max,  Fritz,  and  Hob,  289. 
Mediaeval  Garland,  410. 
Meeting  of  the  Ways,  251. 
Memoirs  of  a  Buccaneer,  321. 
Memoirs  of  a  Person  of  Quality, 

368. 

Men  of  Harlech,  285. 
Men  of  Iron,  281. 
Men  of  the  Mountain,  401. 
Menotomy,  356. 
Merry     Adventures     of     Robin 

Hood,  409. 
Merry  Garden,  378. 
Merrylips,  314. 


Messenger  (The),  346. 
Mexican  War  Series,  390. 
Mid  Clash  of  Swords,  295. 
Middy  of  the  Slave  Squadron, 

385. 

Midshipman  Farragut,  379. 

Midshipman  in  the  Pacific.  380. 

Midshipman  Paulding,  380. 

Midshipman  Stuart,  380. 

Midsummer  Morn,  302. 

Mightiest  Power,  239. 

Minstrel  Dick,  277. 

Minute  Boys  of  Boston,  358. 

Minute  Boys  of  Bunker  Hill,  358. 

Minute  Boys  of  Green  Moun- 
tains, 358. 

Minute  Boys  of  Lexington,  358. 

Minute  Boys  of  Long  Island,  358. 

Minute  Boys  of  Mohawk  Valley, 
.358. 

Minute  Boys  of  New  York  City, 
358. 

Minute  Boys  of  South  Carolina, 
358. 

Minute  Boys  of  Wyoming  Valley, 
358. 

Minute  Boys  Series,  358. 

Miss  Caroline,  414. 

Missourian  (The),  393. 

Mistress  Beatrice  Cope,  339. 

Mistress  Cynthia,  342. 

Mistress  Joy,  371. 

Mistress  Margery,  281. 

Mistress  Nanciebel,  324. 

Mistress  Nell,  324. 

Mistress  of  Aydon,  277. 

Mistress  of  the  Robes,  337. 

Mistress  Phil,  345. 

Monsieur  de  Paris,  361. 

Monsieur    le    Capitaine    Douay, 

303. 
Monsieur    the    Captain    of    the 

Caravel,  324. 
Montlivet,  334. 
Moon  of  Bath,  343. 
Moonrakers  (The),  345. 
Moor  and  Moss,  294. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Morcar,  309. 

More  than  Kin,  363. 

Morgan's  Men,  357. 

Morning  of  To-day,  346. 

Morning  Star,  408. 

Moscow,  382. 

Mother  of  Pearl,  247. 

Murray  of  the  Scots  Greys,  340. 

Musket  Boys  of  Old  Boston,  355. 

Musket  Boys  under  Washington, 

355- 

My  God- Daughter,  352. 
My  Lady  Bellamy,  333. 
My  Lad}r  Clancarty,  334. 
My  Lady  Clemency  goes  down 

to  Rye,  334. 
My  Lady  Clemency  welcomes  a 

Guest,  334. 

My  Lady  Laughter,  356. 
My  Lady  Nan,  414. 
My  Lady  of  Arcs,  346. 
My  Lady  of  Cleeve,  333. 
My  Lady  of  Intrigue,  311. 
My  Lady  of  the  North,  398. 
My  Lady  of  the  South,  397. 
My  Lady  Pokahontas,  308. 
My  Lady  Wentworth,  329. 
My  Lady's  Kiss,  312. 
My  Lady's  Slipper,  360. 
My  Lord  of  Essex,  301. 
My  Merry  Rockhurst,  323. 
My  Rapier  and  my  Daughter, 

301. 

My  Sword  for  Lafayette,  360. 
My  Sword  for  Patrick  Sarsfield, 

333. 

My  Sword  s  my  Fortune,  322. 
Mysteries  of  Udolpho,  305. 


N 

Namesake  of  the  King,  268. 

Nancy  Hart,  357. 

Nancy  Stair,  353. 

Naomi,  246. 

Napoleon's  Love  Story,  376. 


Napoleon's    Young    Neighbour, 

383. 

Nathan  Burke,  417. 
Needles  and  Pins,  284. 
Nellie  of  the  Eight  Bells,  372. 
Nelson's  Yankee  Boy,  372. 
Nest  of  Royalists,  386. 
Nest  of  the  Sparrowhawk,  321. 
New  Arabian  Nights,  284. 
New  England  Maid,  359. 
New  June,  280. 
New  Moon  of  Islam,  283. 
Newell  Fortune,  419. 
Nicanor  Teller  of  Tales,  252. 
Nicole,  363. 

Night  with  Alessandro,  295. 
No  Other  Way,  412. 
No  Surrender,  364. 
Noblesse  Oblige,  365. 
Norman  Conquest,  262. 
North  Overland  with  Franklin. 

384- 

North  Star,  261. 
Northern  Iron,  370. 
Northern  Light,  261. 
Northumbrian  in  Arms,  262. 
Not  for  Him,  275 . 
Number  One  Hundred  and  One, 

350- 

Number  XIII.,  250. 
Nyria,  247. 


O 

O  Gorlannau  y  Defaid,  392. 
Oak  Staircase,  329. 
Obliging  Husband,  325. 
O'Donoghue  (The),  369. 
O'Flynn  (The),  411. 
Of  Mistress  Eve,  318. 
Oil  of  Spikenard,  412. 
Olaf  of  Norway,  261. 
Old  Deerfield  Series,  358. 
Old  London  Bridge,  293. 
Old  Moat  Farm,  300. 
Old  Peabody  Pew,  418. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Old  Time  Yarn,  298. 
On  General  Thomas's  Staff,  395. 
On  the  Banks  of  the  Ouse,  353. 
On  the  Emperor's  Service,  251. 
On  the  Field  of  Glory,  328. 
On  the  Forgotten  Road,  270. 
On  the  Irrawaddy,  386. 
On  the  Knees  of  the  Gods,  241 . 
On  the  Old  Frontier,  359. 
On  the  Old  Kearsage,  395. 
On  the  Spanish  Main,  299. 
On  the  Trail  of  Pontiac,  348. 
Once  Bitten  Twice  Shy,  335. 
One  Fair  Enemy,  317. 
One  of  dive's  Heroes,  349. 
One  of  Rupert's  Horse,  314. 
One  of  the  Red  Shirts,  389. 
One  Snowy  Night,  266. 
Open  Window,  257. 
Orange  and  Green,  332. 
Orangery  (The),  414. 
Oriflamme  in  Egypt,  273. 
Orphan  of  Evesham,  274. 
Orrain,  296. 
O'Ruddy  (The),  412. 
Our  Lady  of  Beauty,  284. 
Out  of  the  Cypress  Swamp,  379. 


Painter's  Message,  256. 
Palace  of  Danger,  351. 
Paladins  of  Edwin  the  Great, 

255. 

Pam  the  Fiddler,  298. 

Pamela's  Hero,  352. 

Pandurang  Hari,  374. 

Parent's  Assistant,  414. 

Paris  at  Bay,  401. 

Parson  Croft,  338. 

Parson    Gay's    Three    Sermons, 

347- 

Parson's  Wood,   331. 
Patcola,  280. 
Path  of  Honor,  362. 
Path  to  Honour,  388. 


Pathfinders  of  the  Revolution, 

359- 

Paths  Perilous,  365. 
Patience  of  John  Morland,  386. 
Patriot  (The),  389. 
Patriots  (The),  394. 
Patriot  and  Tory,  357. 
Patriots  of  Palestine,  242. 
Patriots  of  the  South,  394. 
Paul  a  Herald  of  the  Cross,  244. 
Pawn  in  the  Game,  365. 
Peace  of  the  Church,  254. 
Peace  of  the  Church  and  other 

Stories,  256,  etc. 
Pearl  Fishers,  296. 
Peckover's  Mill,  342. 
Peggy  Gainsborough,  346. 
Peggy  Owen,  356. 
Penelope  Brandling,  413. 
Penitent  (The),  252. 
Perfidious  Lydia,  416. 
Perronelle,  281. 
Peter  and  Alexis,  338. 
Peter  of  New  Amsterdam,  311. 
Peter  the  Apprentice,  292. 
Peter  the  Great,  338. 
Petit  Roi  d'Ombre,  364. 
Petticoat  Government,  351. 
Petticoat  Rule,  351. 
Phantasma,  366. 
Philip  Okeover's  Pagehood,  279. 
Philo's  Daughter,  247. 
Pilgrim  (The),  263. 
Pioneer  (The),  402. 
Players  of  London,  302. 
Plough  of  Shame,  295. 
Poet  (The),  248. 
Poet  and  His  Guardian   Angel, 

353- 

Poison  Island,  378. 
Pontiac  Chief  of  the  Ottawas, 

349- 

Portrait  (The),  412. 
Prairie  Bird,  370. 
Prentice  Hugh,  275. 
President's  Scouts,  391. 
Priestess  of  Isis,  247. 


512 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Prince  Errant,  258. 
Prince  Madog,  409. 
Prince  of  Cornwall,  257. 
Prince  of  Dreamers,  306. 
Prince  of  Lisnover,  420. 
Prince  of  the  House  of  David, 

247. 
Prince    Rupert   the    Buccaneer, 

321- 

Prince  Rupert's  Namesake,  323. 
Prince's  Valet,  349. 
Princess  Adelaide,  273. 
Princess  of  Balkh,  328. 
Princess  of  Gan-Sar,  247. 
Princesse  de  Venise.  306. 
Prior  of  St.  Come,  287. 
Prior's  Ward,  298. 
Prisoner  of  Carisbrooke,  314. 
Prisoner  of  His  Word,  370. 
Prisoner  of  Mademoiselle,  338. 
Prisoners  of  Chance,  349. 
Prisoners  of  Fortune,  338. 
Privy  Seal,  293. 
Profligates  (The),  323. 
Prophet's  Reward,  353. 
Provenzano  the  Proud,  274. 
Psyche,  243. 

Puritan  Knight  Errant,  321. 
Purple  Love,  326. 


Q 

Quakeress  (The),  419. 
Quay  of  the  Dioscuri,  251. 
Queen  Elizabeth,  307. 
Queen  of  Men,  301. 
Queen's  Badge,  285. 
Queen's  Favourite,  322. 
Queen's  Ferry,  263. 
Queen's  Hostage,  301. 
Queen's  Knight  Errant,  300. 
Queen's  Man,  285. 
Queen's  Nurse,  293. 
Queen's  Page,  295. 
Queen's  Tragedy,  297. 
Quiberon  Touch,  348. 


R 


Raiding  with  Morgan,  395. 

Railway  Signalman,  418. 

Rain  of  Dollars,  382. 

Raleigh,  300. 

Ralph  the  Outlaw,  273. 

Raoul    Gentleman  of    Fortune, 

303- 

Raven  (The),  387. 
Ravensdale  Castle,  300. 
Raw  Gold,  420. 
Rebel  Prince,  303. 
Reckoning  (The),  359. 
Red  Cap,  362. 
Red  Caps  of  Lyons,  363. 
Red  Cavalier,  330. 
Red  Chief,  358. 
Red  City,  370. 
Red  Cravat,  349. 
Red  Dickon  the  Outlaw,  279. 
Red  Knight,  277. 
Red  Men  of  the  Dusk,  321. 
Red  Neighbour,  327. 
Red  Reaper,  319. 
Red  Saint,  272. 
Red  Seal,  330. 
Red  Sultan,  354. 
Red  Velvet,  317. 
Red  White  and  Green,  389. 
Refugee  (The),   365. 
Reminiscences  of  Sir  Barrington 

Beaumont,  354. 
Renee,  294. 
Renegat,  299. 
Rescue  (The),  257. 
Return,  347. 
Retz,  287. 
Revolutionary  Series  (Cupples), 

355- 

Revolutionary  Series  (Lothrop), 

357- 

Rezdnov,  376; 

Rhoda  of  the  Undergrounds,  394. 
Richard  Hawkwood,  287. 
Richard  of  Jamestown,  311. 
Rider  of  the  Black  Horse,  358. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Ridolfo,  284. 

Riflemen  of  the  Ohio,  415. 
Ringed  by  Fire,  400. 
Rivals  (The),  255. 
Riverman  (The),  419. 
Road  to  Paris,  354. 
Rob  the  Ranger,  348. 
Robert  Cavalier,  334. 
Robert  Emmet,  374. 
Robin  Hood  his  Book,  409. 
Rock  of  Chicamauga,  397. 
Roger  the  Bold,  291. 
Roger  the  Ranger,  347. 
Roger  the  Scout,  344. 
Roger  Trewinion,  413. 
Rogue  of  Rye,  373. 
Rogue's  Tragedy,  361. 
Roman  d'une  Versaillaise,  362. 
Roman  Household,  246. 
Roman  Students,  284. 
Romance  of  a  Friar  and  a  Nun, 

284. 
Romance  of  Fra  Filippo  Lippi, 

284. 

Romance  of  Gentle  Will,  302. 
Romance  of  Mdle.  Aisse,  341. 
Romance  of  Old  Folkestone,  368. 
Romance  of  the  Fountain,  290. 
Romance  of  the  Undercliff,  368. 
Romantic  Road,  414. 
Ronald  Lindsay,  332. 
Rose  and  Minnie,  388. 
Rose  Brocade,  339. 
Rose  Mervyn,  388. 
Rose  of  Blenheim,  336. 
Rose  of  Dauphiny,  305. 
Rose  of  Old  St.  Louis,  375. 
Rose  of  York,  317. 
Rose-Spinner  (The),  340. 
Roskerry  Treasure,  297. 
Rout  of  the  Foreigner,  271. 
Roving  Commission,  370. 
Royal  Americans,  348. 
Royal  Quaker,  323. 
Royal  Rascal,  370. 
Royal  Road,  272. 
Royal  Story  Book,  248. 


Royal  Ward,  384. 
Royalist  Brothers,  318. 
Ruel  Durkee,  419. 
Running  Horse  Inn,  384. 
Running  the  Gauntlet,  395. 
Ruth  of  Boston,  311. 
Ruth  Ravelstan,  320. 
Rye  House  Plot,  325. 


Safety  of  the  Honours,  319. 
St.  Bartholomew's  Eve,  304. 
St.  Dunstan's  Fair,  383. 
St.    George    of    King    Charles's 

Days,  320. 

St.  Martin's  Summer,  308. 
Sampson  Rideout,  Quaker,  411. 
San  Celestino,  274. 
Sandy  Carmichael,  343. 
Saul  of  Tarsus,  245. 
Saxby,  309. 
Saxon  Maid,  264. 
Saxon     Whom     the     Normans 

Loved,  263. 
Scapegrace  Dick,  320. 
Scarlet  Cloak,  355. 
Scarlet  Pimpernel,  362. 
Scholar  and  the  Trooper,  316. 
Schoolboy  Outlaws,  417. 
Schoolmaster  and  His  Son,  312. 
Scouting  tor  a  King,  319. 
Scouting  for  Washington,  357. 
Sea  Dogs  All,  298. 
Sea  Puritans,  321. 
Sea  Queen's  Sailing,  260. 
Sea-Tigers  (The),  274. 
Second  Answer,  383. 
Second  Bloom,  374. 
Secret  Chamber  at  Chad,  289. 
Secret  of  the  Golden  Key,  305. 
Secret  of  the  Sphinx,  240. 
Seed  of  the  Church,  250. 
Semiramis,  239. 
Senator  Licinius,  245. 
Sentinel  of  Wessex,  373. 


514 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Separatist  (The),  310. 

Seraphica,  341. 

Serena,  394. 

Serfs  (The),  376. 

Servant  of  the  King,  310. 

Serviteur  du  Lion  de  la  Mer,  36 1 . 

Set  of  Six,  377. 

Seven  Champions,  328. 

Seven  Nights,  279. 

Seven  Streams,  409. 

Seventeen  hundred  and  Seventy- 
nine,  352. 

Severed  Mantle,  268. 

Shadow  of  a  Great  Rock,  391. 

Shadow  of  a  Throne,  364. 

Shadow  of  Evil,  378. 

Shadow  of  the  Raggedstone,  266. 

Shakespeare's  Christmas,  302. 

Shakespeare's  Christmas,  etc., 
317,  etc. 

Shakespeare's  Sweetheart,  302. 

Shame  of  Motley,  290. 

Shepherd  Prior,  256. 

Shepherd  Prior  and  other  Stories, 
252,  etc. 

Shepperton  Manor,  307. 

Shibusawa,  399. 

Shirra  (The),  416. 

Shoes  of  Gold,  354. 

Siege  of  Lichfield,  316. 

Sigismondo  Pandolfo  Malatesta, 
284. 

Sign  of  the  Red  Cross,  324. 

Sign  of  Triumph,  270. 

Silanus  the  Christian,  248. 

Silver  Glen,  339. 

Silver  Hand,  353. 

Silver  Key,  326. 

Silver  Shoe-Buckle,  339. 

Silver  Skull,  385. 

Singoalla,  277. 

Sir  Bevill,  309. 

Sir  David's  Visitors,  384. 

Sir  Galahad  of  New  France,  296. 

Sir  Guy's  Trust,  268. 

Sir  John  Constantine,  349. 

Sir  Marrok,  408. 


Sir  Nigel,  276. 

Sir  Raoul,  270. 

Sir  Richard  Escombe,  345. 

Sir  Roger's  Heir,  411. 

Sir  Roland  Preederoy,  286. 

Sir  Sleep-Awake  and  his  Brother, 

269. 

Sir  Valdemar  the  Ganger,  273. 
Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  300. 
Sir  Walter's  Ward,  271. 
Slave  Girl  of  Agra,  306. 
Slave  Girl  of  Pompeii,  247. 
Slave  of  the  Saracen,  273. 
Slaves  of  Sabinus,  247. 
Soldier  of  the  Wilderness,  347. 
Soldiers  of  the  Cross,  288. 
Son  of  Ashur,  240. 
Son  of  Issachar,  244. 
Son  of  Navarre,  294. 
Son  of  Odin,  258. 
Son  of  Siro,  247. 
Son  of  the  Emperor,  271. 
Son  of  the  Swordmaker,  244. 
Sons  of  the  Seigneur,  319. 
Sons  of  the  Vikings,  378. 
Sons  of  Victory,  366, 
Sophia,  412. 
Sorceress  of  Rome,  261. 
Sorciere  du  Vesuve,  377. 
Soul  of  a  Serf,  255. 
Sous  la  Hache,  364. 
Southern    Buds    and    Sons    of 

Wrar,  398. 

Sovereign  Power,  373. 
Sowing  and  Harvesting,  365. 
Spanish  Jade,  392. 
Spanish  Prisoner,  374. 
Special  Messenger,  397. 
Spirit  Trail,  402. 
Splendid  Knight,  300. 
Springtime,  410. 
Spurs  of  Gold,  281. 
Spy  (The),  382. 
Spy  Company,  390. 
Spy  of  Yorktown,  359. 
Squire  and  Page,  282. 
Stairway  of  Honour,  415. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


515 


Star  in  the  West,  253. 

Star  of  Love,  241. 

Star  of  Valhalla,  261. 

Star brace,  412. 

Stars  in  the  Twilight,  251. 

Starvecrow  Farm,  384. 

Starwood  Hall,  352. 

Stephanie's  Children,  363. 

Stephen  a  Soldier  of  the  Cross, 

244. 

Stephen  of  Philadelphia,  311. 
Stonecutter  of  Memphis,  240. 
Stooping  Lady,  378. 
Stories  by  G.  Flaubert,  244. 
Stories  from  Old  English  History, 

253,  etc. 

Stories  of  American  History,  358. 
Stories  of  the  Crusades,  267,  273. 
Stories  of  the  Old  Saints,  etc.. 

255- 

Storm  and  Treasure,  364. 
Storm  Centre,  394. 
Story  of  a  Cat  and  a  Cake,  313. 
Story  of  Ab,  407. 
Story  of  Ancient  Wales,  245. 
Story  of  Edgar  and  Elfrida,  260. 
Story  of  Paul  Jones,  360. 
Story  of  Rolf  and  the  Viking's 

Bow,  261. 
Story  of  the  Child   that   Jesus 

Took,  247. 
Story  of  the  Field  of  the  Cloth 

of  Gold,  295. 
Stradella,  326. 
Straight  Road,  266. 
Strained  Allegiance,  339. 
Strange     Adventures      in      the 

County  of  Dorset,  345. 
Strange  Story  of  Rab  Raby,  354. 
Stranger  Whom  England  Loved, 

264. 

Strawberry  Handkerchief,  349. 
Strong  Mac,  382. 
Stronger  Wings,  389. 
Struggle  for  Freedom,  357. 
Stuart  Schuyler  Series,  357. 
Student  Cavaliers,  397. 


Suffolk  Courtship,  418. 
Suitors  of  Yvonne,  322. 
Surge  of  War,  350. 
Suzanne,  279. 
Sweet  Rogues,  318. 
Swiss  Heroes,  287. 
Sword  and  the  Cowl,  263. 
Sword  Decides,  277. 
Sword  in  the  Air,  388. 
Sword  in  the  Mountains,  395. 
Sword  of  Dundee,  342. 
Sword  of  Gideon,  336. 
Sword  of  the  Lord,  290. 
Sword  of  the  Old  Frontier,  349. 
Swordmaker  (The),  410. 
Swordmaker's  Son,  244. 
Sylvia's  Lovers,  368. 
Sylvia's  Romance,  338. 


Tailor  of  Vitre,  288. 

Tales  and  Sketches  of  Christian 

Life,  265. 
Tales        Illustrating        Church 

History  (Parker's),  249,  etc. 
Tales  Illustrative  of  the  Apostles' 

Creed,  249. 

Tales  of  Christian  Heroism,  249* 
Tales  of  Old  Japan,  411. 
Tales  of  Old  Sicily,  241. 
Tales  of  Rye  Town,  299,  etc. 
Taming  of  the  Brute,  413. 
Tangled  Skein,  297. 
Tavern  Knight,  319. 
Tell-tale  Foot,  257. 
Temps  et  la  Vie,  377. 
'Tention,  381. 
Terry's    Trials    and    Triumphs, 

396. 

Testament  of  Judas,  244. 
Thai's,  408. 

That  Master  of  Ours,  342. 
Theban  Legion,  249. 
Thorn  Fortress,  313. 
Three  Comrades,  400. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


Thrice  Captive,  337. 

Through  the  Door  of  Hope,  259. 

Through  the  Fray,  378. 

Through  the  Sikh  War,  388. 

Tides  of  Barnegat,  419. 

Tiger  of  Muscovy,  306. 

Tiger  of  Mysore,  370. 

Tiger  of  the  Pampas,  386. 

Timely  Baron,  376. 

Titus  a  Comrade  of  the  Cross, 

244. 

To  Horse  and  Away,  319. 
To  My  King  Ever  Faithful,  369. 
To  Pleasure  Madame,  319. 
To  the  Shrine  of  St.  Truth,  279. 
Tolla  the  Courtesan,  336. 
Tom  Cringle's  Log,  416. 
Tor,  or  a  Street  boy  of  Jerusalem, 

244. 
Tragedy   of  the   Deserted   Isle, 

375- 

Iraitor  (The),  398. 
Traitor  and  True,  327. 
Traitor  or  Loyalist,  396. 
Tramping  Methodist,  414. 
Trampling  of  the  Lilies,  361. 
Tre,  Pol,  and  Pen,  367. 
Treasure  (The),  380. 
Trelawny  of  Trelawne,  328. 
Trooper  of  the  Finns,  312. 
True  Gold,  315. 
True  Man  and  Traitor,  374. 
True  to  the  Old  Flag,  356. 
True  Unto  Death,  391. 
Trumpet-Major  (The),  373. 
Trusty  Rebel,  289. 
Turnpike  Lady,  414. 
'Twas  in  Trafalgar's  Bay,  371. 
'Twas  in  Trafalgar's   Bay,  etc., 

334- 

Twisted  Eglantine,  378. 
'Twixt  Old  and  New,  278. 
'Twixt  Sword  and  Glove,  336. 
Two   Cadets   with   Washington, 

357- 

Two  Captains,  366. 
Two  Dover  Boys,  294. 


Two  Gallant  Rebels,  364. 
Two  Gentlemen  of  Virginia,  393. 
Two  Girls  in  a  Siege,  318. 
Two  Lady  Lascelles,  416. 
Two  Little  Cavaliers,  316. 
Two  Men  o'  Mendip,  416. 
Two  Royal  Foes,  376. 
Two  Swords,  317. 
Two-Handed  Sword,  342. 
Tyranny  of  Honour,  401. 


U 


Ulric  the  Jarl,  244. 
Under  Castle  Walls,  410. 
Under  Drake's  Flag,  299. 
Under  One  Sceptre,  280. 
Under  Pontius  Pilate,  243. 
Under  Puritan  Rule,  320. 
Under  Scott  in  Mexico,  390. 
Under  the  Chilian  Flag,  403. 
Under  the  Flag  of  France,  277. 
Under  the  Lone  Star,  391. 
Under  the  Pompadour,  351. 
Under  the  Red  Rose,  286. 
Under  the  Roman  Eagles,  246. 
Under  the  Stars,  393. 
Under  the  Storm   319. 
Under  the  White  Cockade,  343. 
Under  Three  Kings,  328. 
Under  Two  Queens,  297. 
Unstrung  Bow,  291. 
Untrue  to  His  Trust,  322. 
Unwedded  Bride,  297. 
Up  and  Down  the  Pantiles,  368. 


V.C.,  a  Chronicle  of  Castle 
Barfield,  391. 

Valiant  and  True,  361. 

Van  Rensselaers  of  Old  Man- 
hattan, 358. 

Van  Rensselaer  of  Rensselaers- 
wyck,  358. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


517 


Vanished  Nation,  393. 
Vanishing  Smuggler,  415. 
Vendee  aux  Genets,  364. 
Venture  in  1777,  358. 
Veranilda,  253. 
Vergilius,  242. 
Veronica  Playfair,  340. 
Verteidigung  Roms,  389. 
Vicar  of  the  Marches,  265. 
Victor  of  Salamis,  241. 
Victor's  Laurel,  250. 
Victory  (The),  396. 
Victory  that  Overcometh,  251. 
Vigilante  Girl,  418. 
Vine  of  Sibmah,  325. 
Vinland  Champions,  261. 
Viper  of  Milan,  278. 
Viva  Christina,  387. 
Volunteer  with  Pike,  375. 
Voyage  of  the  Avenger,  299. 


W 


Walter  the  Armourer,  269. 

Wanton  (The),  271. 

War  Children,  397. 

War  for  the  Union  Series,  396. 

War  God  and  the  Brown  Maiden, 

291. 

War  of  1812,  379. 
War  of  1812  Series,  379. 
Wardship  of  Steepcombe,  278. 
Warrens  of  Virginia,  396. 
Warriors  of  Old  Japan,  410. 
Waste  Not,  Want  Not,  414. 
Watcher  on  the  Tower,  382. 
Watchers   on    the   Long    Ships, 

414. 

Watchers  of  the  Plains,  402. 
Waterloo  Lass,  416. 
Way  of  a  Man,  419. 
Way  of  Service,  258. 
Way  of  the  Cross,  248. 
Wayfarers  (The),  345. 
Weavers  (The),  418. 
Weaving  of  Gysele  Espinette,  331. 


Weeping  Cross,  321. 
Weir  of  Hermiston,  378. 
Welding  (The),  394. 
Wenzel's  Inheritance,  283. 
Were- Wolf  (The),  322. 
Westminster  Cloisters,  268. 
Westover  of  Wanalah,  419. 
What  Ercongeta  Saw,  256. 
When       Cromwell      came      to 

Drogheda,  318. 
When  Hawkins  sailed  the  Sea, 

298. 

When  Lion-Heart  was  King,  268. 
When  London  Burned,  324 
When  Terror  Ruled,  362. 
When    the    Puritans    were    in 

Power,  320. 

When  we  were  Boys,  420. 
When  Wilderness  was  King,  380. 
Where  the  Red  Volleys  Poured, 

395- 

Whispering  Winds,  408. 
White  Conquerors,  291. 
White  Conquerors  of  Mexico,  291 . 
White  Dove  of  Amritzer,  392. 
White  Lady  of  Hazel  wood,  278. 
White  Plume,  304. 
White  Plumes  of  Navarre,  304. 
White  River  Raft,  418. 
White  Rose  of  Lynden,  286. 
White  Shield,  247. 
White  Standard,  282. 
White  Witch,  344. 
Wild  Geese,  339. 
Wild  Scenes  amongst  the  Celts, 

252,  254. 

Wilderness  Road,  370. 
Will  of  the  Dales,  411. 
William  of  Normandy,  262. 
Winding  Waters,  402. 
Winning  His  Spurs,  267. 
Winter  Queen,  309. 
Wisdom  of  the  Serpent,  399. 
Witch  Maid,  373. 
Witch  of  Huntingdon,  268. 
Witch  Queen  of  Khem,  239. 
Witch's  Sword,  294. 


SUPPLEMENT. 


With  Cochrane   the   Dauntless, 

385. 
With    Drake    on    the    Spanish 

Main,  299. 

With  Flintlock  and  Fife,  347. 
With  Grant  at  Vicksburg,  398. 
With     Marlborough     to     Mal- 

plaquet,  337. 
With   Musketeer   and    Redskin 

3«- 

With  Nelson  in  Command,  371 
With  Paul  Jones,  360. 
With  Pizarro  the  Conquistador, 

291. 

With  Poison  and  Sword,  298. 
With  Puritan  and  Pequot,  311. 
With  Richard  the  Fearless,  268. 
With  Roberts  to  Candahar,  403. 
With  Rogers'  Rangers,  347. 
With  Shield  and  Assagai,  403. 
With  Sully  into  the  Sioux  Land, 

398. 

With  Sword  and  Pen,  392. 
With  Taylor  on  the  Rio  Grande, 

390. 

With  the  Black  Prince,  276. 
With  the  Black  Prince,  276. 
With  the  British  Legion,  387. 
With  the  Warden  of  the  Marches, 

298. 
With   Wellington   to  Waterloo, 

383- 

With  Wolfe  in  Canada,  348. 
With  Wolseley  to  Kumasi,  402. 
Within  Four  Walls,  308. 
Wolfingham,  370. 
Woman  and  the  Sword,  313. 
Woman  from  the  Sea,  364. 
Won  in  Warfare,  356. 
Won  Not  by  Might,  265. 
Woodhull,  355. 
Workman  and  Soldier,  401. 
Wounds  of  a  Friend,  300. 
Wreathed  Dagger,  318. 
Writer  and  Fighter,  272. 
Wroth,  384. 
Wulnoth  the  Wanderer,  259. 


X 


Ximenes,  290. 


Yankee    Ship    and     a    Yankee 

Crew,  379. 
Yarn    of    Old   Harbour   Town, 

372- 

Ye  Sexes  Give  Ear,  416. 

Year  One,  363. 

Yesterday's  To-morrow,  325. 

Yo  Ho  !  For  the  Spanish  Main, 
411. 

Yoke  (The),  240. 

Yolanda  Maid  of  Burgundy,  287. 

Young  Blockaders,  396. 

Young  Buglers,  381. 

Young  Carthaginian,  242. 

Young  Continentals  at  Bunker 
Hill,  355. 

Young  Continentals  at  Lexing- 
ton, 355. 

Young  Days  of  Admiral 
Quilliam,  372. 

Young  Franctireurs,  400. 

Young  Heroes  of  Our  Navy 
Series,  375. 

Young  Huguenots,  335. 

Young  Kentuckians  Series,  395. 

Young  Man  Married,  382. 

Young  Oxford  Maid,  316. 

Young  Privateersman,  379. 

Young  Puritans  Series,  358. 

Young  Rajah,  392. 

Young  Rangers,  347. 

Young  Trailers,  415. 


Zoroaster,  241. 


Some  Notices  (English,  American,  and  Foreign]  of  "  A 
Guide  to  the  Best  Historical  Novels  and  Tales. " 

"  Mr.  Nield  has  set  himself  a  useful  task,  and  he  has  done  it  well.  Thousands  of  people  every  year 
owe  to  fiction  their  first  love  of  history.  .  .  .  It  is  to  them  that  Mr.  Nield  most  strongly  appeals  in  his 
admirable  Guidctothe  Best  Historical  Novels  and  Tales  " 

R.  E.  PROTHERO,  in  The  Quarterly  Review,  January,  1907. 

"  Shows  continuous  improvements  in  its  new  editions.  .  .  .  The  clearness  and  conciseness  of  the 
book  add  immensely  to  its  value."  The  Times  (Literary  Supplement). 

"  We  are  glad  to  see  a  third  edition  of  Mr.  Nield's  most  capable  Guide  to  the  best  Historical  Novels 
and  Tales."  The  AthenEBum. 

"  A  useful  volume.  .  .  .  The  idea  of  the  book,  the  arranging  of  historical  tales  according  to  centuries, 
is  a  good  one,  and  worked  out  with  much  care."  The  Spectator. 


logical  guide  10  Historical  novels,  witn  adequate  ueiaus  ana  aiviaea  into  conveme 
All  lovers  of  fiction  and  students  of  history  should  possess  this  excellent  guide-book. 


"  Mr.  Nield's  Guide  is  most  interesting  in  its  discussion  and  defence  of  the  genre  of  historical  novels." 

ANDREW  LANG,  in  Longman's  Magazine. 

"  I  have  abstained  from  some  excellent  arguments  advanced  by  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield  in  A  Guide 
to  the  Best  Historical  Novels  and  Tales  ;  and  purposely,  that  I  might  have  the  pleasure  of  referring  the 
reader  to  a.  terse  and  careful  piece  of  work."  Sir  A.  T.  QUILLER-COUCH,  in  The  Daily  News. 

"Manifestly  the  public  libraries  ought  to  be  equipped  for  serious  reading.  .  .  .  And  the  obvious 
direct  method  to  equip  them  is  to  organise  an  association,  to  work  if  possible  with  the  librarians.  .  .  . 
The  first  business  of  such  an  association  would  be  to  get  '  Guides  '  to  various  fields  of  human  interest 
written,  guides  that  should  be  clear,  explicit  bibliographies.  ...  I  may  note  here  a  very  good  little 
book  by  Mr.  J.  Nield,  A  Guide  to  the  Best  Historical  Novels,  which  would  be  useful  to  librarians  in 
revising  that  department  of  fiction."  H.  G.  WELLS,  in  Mankind  in  the  Making. 

"  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield  may  be  congratulated  on  his  Guide  having  found  its  way  into  a  third  edition. 
.  .  .  The  book  indicates  enormous  research."  C.  K.  S.,  in  The  Sphere. 

"  The  book  is  not  only  a  valuable  work  of  reference,  but,  what  it  claims  to  be,  a  pleasant  and  an 
edifying  guide  to  the  lover  and  the  student  of  historical  fiction.  .  .  .  We  are  delighted  to  have  made 
acquaintance  with  Mr.  Nield's  valuable  book,  and  are  content  to  think  we  shall  have  it  at  hand  for 
future  suggestion  and  reference."  Notes  and  Queries. 

"  Mr.  Nield's  book  appears  in  a  third  edition,  the  third  since  May,  1902,  a  fact  which  proclaims 
public  acceptation  of  the  work.  .  .  .  With  this  lantern-guide  in  hand,  the  reader  may  pilot  his  way 
through  the  centuries,  from  Ancient  Babylon  and  Mummied  Dynasties  to  the  minor  revolutions  of  the 
late  nineteenth  century,  happily  stepping  on  bridges  and  mounds  of  Romance.  His  knowledge, 
after  a  completed  course,  will  be  extensive,  and  his  sympathies  enlightened." 

Scottish  Historical  Review. 


"  What  is  an  historical  novel  ?  The  question  has  received  many  different  answers,  and  a  fresh  ODP 
is  now  attempted  by  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield.  ...  As  for  saying  that  a  man  cannot  project  himself  into 
a  past  age  so  as  completely  to  represent  its  idiosyncracy  in  every  particular,  and  that  he  should  there- 
fore abstain  from  the  attempt,  Mr.  Nield  very  truly  says  that  neither  can  a  man  identify  himself  with 
the  moral  and  social  atmosphere  of  twenty  years  ago  so  entirely  as  this  criticism  requires.  It  is  enough 
that  he  can  do  it  sufficiently  to  make  his  characters  living  realities." 

Standard  (Leading  Article). 

"  It  may  be  reasonably  asked  whether  most  of  us  do  not  gain  a  clearer  notion  of  the  policies  of  the 
two  great  Cardinals  who  built  up  the  French  monarchy  in  the  seventeenth  century,  or  of  the  mysterious 
and  alluring  character  of  Henri  Quatre,  from  Dumas  than  from  Michelet.  At  any  rate,  Mr.  Nield 
thinks  so,  and  most  readers  will  be  prepared  to  admit  that  his  able  preface  makes  out  a  very  stronp 
case  for  such  an  educational  use  of  historical  novels  as  his  full  and  carefully  classified  lists  make  possible." 

The  Manchester  Guardian  (Leading  Article). 

"  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield's  very  useful  Guide  to  Historical  Novels."  Daily  Chronicle. 

"  Most  interesting.  .  .  Mr.  Nield's  book  should  be  in  the  hands  of  all  historical  teachers,  and 
easily  accessible  at  all  public  libraries."  Daily  News. 

"  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield,  who  rendered  a  great  service  to  students  of  letters  a  few  years  ago  by  his 
compilation  of  a  guide  to  historical  novels,  has  added  to  the  usefulness  of  his  book  by  greatly  extending 
it  in  a  new  edition.  Mr.  Nield's  work  is  unique.  .  .  .  On  the  whole,  we  have  nothing  but  admiration 
for  the  plan  of  the  book,  for  the  loving  care  which  has  been  given  to  it,  and  for  the  growing  compre- 
hensiveness of  it.  '  A  Guide  .  .  .  '  is  one  of  the  books  which  belong  essentially  to  the  literature  of 
letters."  Daily  Mail. 

"  Mr.  Nield  has  done  his  work  in  a  broad  and  catholic  spirit."  Liverpool  Daily  Post. 

"  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield  has  revised  and  amended  to  a  notable  degree  the  third  edition  of  his  valuable 
reference  book.  .  .  .  Useful,  reliable,  and  instructive."  Glasgow  Herald. 

"  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield's  valuable  bibliographical  work  .  .  .  has  gained  a  wide  reputation  among 
librarians,  reading  clubs,  and  the  more  serious  among  novel  readers."  Th3  Scotsman. 

"  Revised  and  enlarged  so  extensively,  especially  in  details,  as  to  be  almost  a  new  book — a  well 
deserved  popularity."  The  Educational  Times. 

"  Within  a  measurable  degree  of  bibliographical  perfection.  .  .  .  The  completeness,  variety  and 
accuracy  of  its  contents  make  it  quite  indispensable  to  teachers  and  students  of  history,  to  the  keepers 
of  school  and  other  libraries,  and  to  the  lovers  of  belles  lettres  generally."  School  World. 

"  This  most  useful  guide,  which  is  indispensable  for  the  school  teacher  of  history." 

Journal  of  Education. 

"  Invaluable  to  teachers.  .  .  .  Should  be  found  in  every  school  library."  Education. 

"This  admirable  guide.  .  .  .  Altogether,  a  compact,  accurate,  and  valuable  companion  to  the 
novel-reader  who  wants  to  systematize  his  reading,  and  an  exceedingly  useful  aid  for  the  librarians  of 
both  adult  and  juvenile  libraries."  Library  World. 

"  This  useful  and  suggestive  work  "  Library  Association  Record. 

"  Includes  an  invaluable  catalogue.  .  .  .  Apart  from  the  bibliography,  there  is  much  interesting 
general  information  in  this  volume,  and  I  wish  to  call  particular  attention  to  the  section  entitled  '  Fifty 
Representative  Historical  Novels.'  "  T.  P.'s  Weekly. 

"  A  painstaking  and  useful  piece  of  work  .  .  .  In  an  interesting  Introduction,  the  author  explains 
the  principle  on  which  he  has  inserted  some  books  and  omitted  others.  .  .  .  We  found  every  book  of 
which  we  happened  to  think  in  its  proper  place."  The  Guardian. 

"  Has  deservedly  won  an  honourable  name.  .  .  .  Wherever  possible,  Mr.  Nield  has  profited  by  good 
advice,  with  the  result  that  he  must  be  congratulated  on  having  compiled  the  best  guide  on  the  best 
historical  novels."  Birmingham  Daily  Post. 


"  So  admirable  is  the  arrangement  of  the  volume,  and  so  interesting  its  contents.  .  .  .  This  book 
should  be  in  every  library,  whilst  real  lovers  of  historical  romance,  on  once  becoming  acquainted  with 
it,  will  wish  to  possess  a  copy  of  the  Guide  for  constant  use.  To  the  elders,  this  book  will  recall  past 
pleasures  in  the  company  of  familiar  friends  in  romance.  To  the  young  it  will  call  up  visions  of  delight- 
ful reading  in  the  future.  And  if  we  look  to  the  best  historical  fiction  for  the  imaginative  interpretation 
of  life  in  the  past,  its  great  personages,  events,  and  movements,  all  leading  up  to  our  own  time,  Mr. 
Nield's  Guide  may  prove  a  key  to  unlock  for  us  the  moving  drama  of  the  world's  history." 

The  Inquirer. 

"  No  one  can  make  even  a  superficial  examination  of  this  work,  and  especially  of  the  bibliography 
appended  to  it,  without  recognising  the  vast  amount  of  painstaking  labour  that  has  been  involved  in 
its  production.  .  .  .  The  principles  which  have  been  followed  in  the  compilation  of  the  work  are  set 
forth  in  an  interesting  Introduction,  manifesting  fulness  of  information  and  soundness  of  literary 
judgment.  .  .  .  Manifestly  the  product  of  immense  labour  and  much  thought." 

Aberdeen  Free  Press. 

"  A  standard  work,  which  has  to  be  in  every  library."  The  Queen. 

"  In  its  present  expanded  form  it  provides  a  work  of  reference  indispensable  not  only  to  librarians, 
but  to  all  who  are  interested  in  the  important  branch  of  literature  to  which  it  is  so  complete  and  in- 
structive a  guide."  The  World. 

"  The  orderliness  and  simplicity  of  arrangement  of  the  work  will  be  obvious  to  all  who  use  it." 

Literary  World. 

"  This  admirable  and  discriminating  work.  The  wonderful  store  of  knowledge  it  exhibits,  and  the 
laborious  research  which  its  preparation  must  have  involved,  cannot  fail  to  impress  even  the  most 
superficial  critic.  The  bibliography  appended  is  in  itself  well  worth  the  price  asked  for  the  book." 

Christian  Life. 

"  It  ought  to  find  a  place  in  every  public  library,  in  every  schoolmaster's  study,  and  on  the  book- 
shelves of  every  literary  man  and  every  book-lover."  Great  Thoughts 

"  Practically  a  new  book,  having  been  '  revised  and  enlarged  *  into  nearly  double  the  number  of 
pages.  .  .  .  Should  be  of  the  greatest  value  to  the  historical  student."  Leeds  Mercury. 

"  A  volume  of  real  and  permanent  utility."  The  Globe. 

"  The  Historical  Novel.  .  .  .  This  subject,  which  has  been  considered  from  pretty  nearly  all  possible 
points  of  view,  receives  additional  illumination  through  a  recent  study — A  Guide  to  the  Best  Historical 
Novels  and  Tales,  by  Jonathan  Nield.  .  .  .  Every  reader  of  historical  fiction  will  admit  the  con- 
venience of  an  arrangement  by  which  one  may  see  at  a  glance  the  periods  of  history  that  novelists  have 
chosen  or  neglected."  The  Nation,  U.S.A.  (Leading  Article). 

"  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield  is  the  compiler  of  A  Guide  to  the  Best  Historical  Novels  and  Tales,  which 
should  serve  a  useful  purpose  in  every  public  library,  and  which  many  readers  will  be  glad  to  have  on 
their  own  shelves  or  tables  for  constant  reference.  ...  It  would  be  easy  to  criticise  such  a  list  at 
points  for  what  it  contains  or  omits,  and  to  add  to  it  indefinitely.  Let  the  critic  do  his  best — or  worst 
— and  then  go  on  and  make  a  better."  Literary  World,  Boston,  Mass. 

"  There  is  apparently  no  end  to  the  ambitions  and  achievements  of  bibliographers.  They  are 
assiduous  workers  in  every  possible  field  of  literary  endeavour,  and  their  labours  reach  beyond  what 
many  less  indefatigable  investigators  would  consider  insurmountable  obstacles.  The  latest  biblio- 
grapher to  publish  his  work — it  must  be  remembered  that  many  valuable  bibliographies  never  pass 
the  manuscript  stage — is  Jonathan  Nield.  .  .  .  The  general  reader  will  find  Mr.  Nield's  preface  the 
most  entertaining  part  of  his  book. '  Boston  Evening  Transcript. 

"  That  Mr.  Nield  has  done  his  work  intelligently,  all  readers  will  agree."  New  York  Herald. 

"  A  new  edition — the  third — testifies  to  the  usefulness  of  a  work  whose  compilation  must  have 
been  a  laborious  task  indeed."  New  York  Evening  Mail. 


"  The  praise  we  were  moved  to  give  it  on  its  first  appearance  is  now  to  be  given  in  greater  measure. 
.  .  .  Mr.  Xield's  Introduction,  dealing  with  the  historical  novel  in  general  and  his  own  principles  of 
choice  in  particular,  is  suggestive.  .  .  .  There  is  very  little  to  complain  of  in  Mr.  Nield's  practice  of 
his  principles,  and  his  book,  with  its  bibliography  and  indexes  of  authors  and  titles,  is  an  extremely 
useful  contribution  to  the  literature  of  the  subject." 

New  York  Times  Saturday  Review  of  Books. 

"  The  author's  list  has  been  extended  and  strengthened,  his  descriptive  notes  especially  having 
been  improved.  .  .  .  The  book  is  comprehensive,  and,  for  a  literary  worker,  it  is  invaluable." 

New  York  Tribune. 

"  The  '  Guide  '  is  well  made,  and  will  really  be  found  useful  in  many  ways." 

New  York  Sun. 

"  This  is  a  very  useful  book,  and  in  its  present  form  is  far  more  valuable  than  it  was  before." 

The  Dial  (Chicago). 

"  A  book  that  will  save  the  public  librarian  many  questions."  New  York  Independent. 

"  It  is  possible,  if  one  prefers  to  get  his  history  along  the  primrose  path,  to  acquaint  himself  with 
nearly  every  epoch  of  ancient  and  modern  civilisation  by  the  perusal  of  historical  fiction.  Mr.  Jonathan 
Nield  has  brought  this  out  in  detail  in  his  Guide.  .  .  .  Writers  of  historical  fiction  in  search  of  un- 
explored tracts  may  get  guidance  from  this  book."  New  York  Mail  and  Express. 

"  C'est  une  idee  inge'nieuse.  .  .  .  On  guide  ainsi  les  lecteurs  a  travers  un  vaste  monde  ou  chacuu 
peut  .  .  .  des  lors  aller  vers  les  contrees  et  les  figures  qui  le  sollicitent."  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes. 

"  Mr.  Jonathan  Nield's  Guide  has  attained  a  recognised  position  as  the  standard  bibliography  on 
the  subject.  .  .  .  We  have  nothing  but  praise  for  the  accuracy  of  the  text  and  the  fulness  of  the  biblio- 
graphy and  the  indexes,  and  can  conceive  few  more  serviceable  books  to  a  teacher  of  Universal  History, 
whatever  his  or  her  nationality."  Skandinavisk  Manadsrevy  (Sweden). 


PRINTED   BY  WILLIAM   CLOWES  AND  SONS,    LIMITED,  LONDON   AND   BECCLBS 


