Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2010 


http://www.archive.org/details/harvardclassics01elio 


^r::-E^V^ 


Printing  Press  at  which  F?^anklin  worked  in 
Watt's    Printing-Office,    London,    in     1725- 

—See  p.    46 


THE    HARVARD    CLASSICS 

EDITED    BY    CHARLES    W    ELIOT    LL  D 


THE   AUTOBIOGRAPHY    OF 
BEXJAMIN    FRANKLIN 

THE    JOURNAL    OF 
JOHN    WOOLMAN 

FRUITS    OF    SOLITUDE 
WILLIAM    PENN 

WITH    INTRODUCTIONS    AND    NOTES 

VOLUME     1 


P    F    COLLIER    &    SON    COMPANY 
NEW    YORK 


Copyright,  1909 
By  p.  F.  Collier  &  Son 

manufactured  in  u.  s.  a. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Benjamin  Franklin,  His  Autobiography  ....      5 

The  Journal  of  John  Woolman 

Chapter  I I77 

Chapter  II 187 

Chapter  III i95 

Chapter  IV 208 

Chapter  V 225 

Chapter  VI 235 

Chapter  VII 248 

Chapter  VIII 260 

Chapter  IX 282 

Chapter  X 295 

Chapter  XI Z^'^ 

Chapter  XII 316 

The  Death  of  John  Woolman 327 

Some  Fruits  of  Solitude,  in  Reflections  and  Maxims 

Part  I.    William  Penn 329 

More  Fruits  of  Solitude,  Being  the  Second  Part  of 
Reflections  and  Maxims 385 


HC— Vol.  1 


Planned  and  Designea 
at  The  Collier  Press 
'  By  William  Patten 


INTRODUCTORY   NOTE 

Benjamin  Franklin  was  horn  in  Milk  Street,  Boston,  on 
January  6  {January  17,  new  style),  1706.  His  father,  Josiah 
Franklin,  was  a  tallow  chandler  who  married  twice,  and  of  his 
seventeen  children  Benjamin  was  the  youngest  son.  His  school- 
ing ended  at  ten,  and  at  twelve  he  was  bound  apprentice  to  hi^- 
brother  James,  a  printer,  who  published  the  "New  England  Cour^ 
ant.''  To  this  journal  he  became  a  contributor,  and  later  was  for 
a  time  its  nominal  editor.  But  the  brothers  quarreled,  and  Ben- 
jamin ran  away,  going  first  to  New  York,  and  thence  to  Philadel- 
phia, where  he  arrived  in  October,  1723.  He  soon  obtained  work 
as  a  printer,  but  after  a  few  months  he  zvas  induced  by  Governor 
Keith  to  go  to  London,  where,  finding  Keith's  promises  empty,  he 
again  worked  as  a  compositor  till  he  was  brought  back  to  Phila- 
delphia by  a  merchant  named  Denman,  who  gave  him  a  position 
in  his  business.  On  Denman's  death  he  returned  to  his  former 
trade,  and  shortly  set  up  a  printing  house  of  his  own  from  which 
he  published  "The  Pennsylvania  Gazette,"  to  which  he  contrib- 
uted many  essays,  and  which  he  made  a  medium  for  agitating  a 
variety  of  local  reforms.  In  1732  he  began  to  issue  his  famous 
"Poor  Richard's  Almanac"  for  the  enrichment  of  which  he  bor- 
rowed or  composed  those  pithy  utterances  of  worldly  wisdom 
which  are  the  basis  of  a  large  part  of  his  popular  reputation.  In 
1758,  the  year  in  which  he  ceased  writing  for  the  Alm,anac,  he 
printed  in  it  "Father  Abraham's  Sermon,"  now  regarded  as  the 
most  famous  piece  of  literature  produced  in  Colonial  America. 

Meantime  Franklin  was  concerning  himself  more  and  more 
with  public  affairs.  He  set  forth  a  scheme  for  an  Academy, 
'which  was  taken  up  later  and  finally  developed  into  the  Uni- 
versity of  Pennsylvania;  and  he  founded  an  "American  Philo- 
sophical Society"  for  the  purpose  of  enabling  scientific  men  to 
communicate  their  discoveries  to  one  another.  He  himself  had 
already  begun  his  electrical  researches,  which,  imth  other  scien- 
tific inquiries,  he  carried  on  in  the  intervals  of  money-making 
and  politics  to  the  end  of  his  life.  In  1748  he  sold' his  business 
in  order  to  get  leisure  for  study,  having  now  acquired  compara- 
tive  wealth;  and  in  a  few  years  he  had  made  discove-ries  that 
gave  hhn  a  reputation  with  the  learned  throughout  Europe.    In 

3 


^  O  <J  ^ 


4  INTRODUCTORY  NOTE 

politics  he  praved  very  able  botk  as  an  administrator  and  as  a 
controversialist ;  hut  his  rei:ord  as  an  oiHce-holder  fs  stained  by 
the  use  he  made  of  his  position  to  advance  his  relatives.  His 
most  notable  service  in  home  politics  was  his  reform  of  the 
postal  system;  but  his  fame  a^  a  statesman  rests  chiefly  on  his 
services  in  connection  with  the  relations  of  the  Colonies  with 
Great  Britain,  and  later  with  France.  In  1757  he  was  ^ent  to 
England  to  protest  against  the  influence  of  the  Penns  in  the 
government  of  the  colony,  and  for  five  years  he  remained  there, 
striving  to  enlighten  the  people  and  the  ministry  of  England  d^s 
to  Colonial  conditions.  On  his  return  to  America  he  played  an 
honorable  part  in  the  Paxton  affair,  through  which  he  lost  his 
seat  in  the  Assembly;  but  in  1764  he  was  again  despatched  to 
England  as  agent  for  the  colony,  this  time  to  petition  the  King  to 
resume  the  government  from  the  hands  of  the  proprietors.  In 
London  he  actively  opposed  the  proposed  Stamp  Act,  but  lost  the 
credit  for  this  and  much  of  his  popularity  through  his  securing 
for  a  friend  the  office  of  >stamp  agent  in  America.  Even  his  effect- 
ive work  in  helping  to  obtain  the  repeal  of  the  act  left  him  still 
a  suspect;  but  he  continued  his  efforts  to  present  the  case  for 
the  Colonies  as  the  troubles  thickened  toward  the  crisis  of  the 
Revolution.  In  1767  he  crossed  to  France,  where  he  was  re- 
ceived with  honor;  but  before  his  return  home  in  1775  he  lost  his 
position  as  postmaster  through  his  share  in  divulging  to  Massa- 
chusetts the  famous  letter  of  Hutchinson  and  Oliver.  On  his  ar- 
rival in  Philadelphia  he  was  chosen  a  member  of  the  Continental 
Congress,  and  in  1777  he  was  despatched  to  France  as  commissioner 
for  the  United  States.  Here  he  remained  till  1785,  the  favorite  of 
French  society ;  and  with  such  success  did  he  conduct  the  affairs 
of  his  country  that  when  he  finally  returned  he  received  a  place 
only  second  to  that  of  Washington  as  the  champion  of  American 
independence.    He  died  on  April  17,  1790. 

The  first  five  chapters  of  the  Autobiography  were  composed  in 
England  in  1771,  continued  in  1784-5,  and  again  in  1788,  at  which 
date  he  brought  it  down  to  1757.  After  a  most  extraordinary 
series  of  adventures,  the  original  form  of  the  manuscript  was 
finally  printed  by  Mr.  John  Bigelow,  and  is  here  reproduced  in 
recognition  of  its  value  as  a  picture  of  one  of  the  most  notable 
personalities  of  Colonial  times,  and  of  its  acknowledged  rank  oj? 
one  of  the  great  autobiographies  of  the  world. 


BENJAMIN    FRANKLIN 

HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY 

1706-1757 

TwYFORD,  at  the  Bishop  of  St.  Asuph^s,^  1771. 

DEAR  SON :  I  have  ever  had  pleasure  in  obtainmg  any 
little  anecdotes  of  my  ancestors.  You  may  remember 
the  inquiries  I  made  among  the  remains  of  my  rela- 
tions when  you  were  with  me  in  England,  and  the  journey 
I  undertook  for  that  purpose.  Imagining  it  may  be  equally 
agreeable  to*  you  to  know  the  circumstances  of  my  life, 
many  of  which  you  are  yet  unacquainted  with,  and  expecting 
the  enjoyment  of  a  week's  uninterrupted  leisure  in  my  present 
country  retirement,  I  sit  down  to  write  them  for  you.  To 
which  I  have  besides  some  other  inducements.  Having 
emerged  from  the  poverty  and  obscurity  in  which  I  was 
born  and  bred;,  to  a  state  of  afHuence  and  some  degree  of 
reputation  in  the  world,  and  having  gone  so  far  through  life 
with  a  considerable  share  of  felicity,  the  conducing  means  I 
made  use  of,  which  with  the  blessing  of  God  so  well  suc- 
ceeded, my  posterity  may  like  to  know,  as  they  may  find 
some  of  them  suitable  to  their  own  situations,  and  therefore 
fit  to  be  imitated. 

That  felicity,  when  I  reflected  on  it,  has  indnced  me  some- 
times to  say,  that  were  it  offered  to  my  choice,  I  should 
have  no  objection  to  a  repetition  of  the  same  life  from  its 
beginning,  only  asking  the  advantages  authors  have  in  a 
second  edition  to  correct  some  faults  of  the  first.     So  I  might, 

^  The  country-seat  of  Bishop  Shipley,  the  good  bishop,  as  Dr.  Franklin 
used  to  style  him. — B. 

'  After  the  words  "  agreeable  to  "  the  words  "  some  of  "  Were  interlined 
aad  afterward  effaced. — B. 


6  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

besides  correcting  the  faults,  change  some  sinister  accidents 
and  events  of  it  for  others  more  favorable.  But  though 
this  were  denied,  I  should  still  accept  the  offer.  Since  such  a 
repetition  is  not  to  be  expected^  the  next  thing  most  like 
living  one's  life  over  again  seems  to  be  a  recollection  of  that 
life,  and  to  make  that  recollection  as  durable  as  possible  by 
putting  it  down  in  writing. 

Hereby,  too,  I  shall  indulge  the  inclination  so  natural  in 
old  m.en,  to  be  talking  of  themselves  and  their  own  past  ac- 
tions ;  and  I  shall  indulge  it  without  being  tiresome  to  others, 
who,  through  respect  to  age,  might  conceive  themselves 
obliged  to  give  me  a  hearing,  since  this  may  be  read  or  not 
as  any  one  pleases.  And,  lastly  (I  may  as  well  confess  it, 
since  my  denial  of  it  will  be  believed  by  nobody),  perhaps 
I  shall  a  good  deal  gratify  my  own  vanity.  Indeed,  I  scarce 
ever  heard  or  saw  the  introductory  words,  ''  Without  vanity 
I  may  say/'  &c.,  but  some  vain  thing  immediately  followed. 
Most  people  dislike  vanity  in  others,  whatever  share  they 
have  of  it  themselves;  but  I  give  it  fair  quarter  wherever  I 
meet  with  it,  being  persuaded  that  it  is  often  productive  of 
good  to  the  possessor,  and  to  others  that  are  within  his 
sphere  of  action;  and  therefore,  in  many  cases,  it  would  not 
be  altogether  absurd  if  a  man  were  to  thank  God  for  his 
vanity  among  the  other  comforts  of  life. 

And  now  I  speak  of  thanking  God,  I  desire  with  all  humil- 
ity to  acknowledge  that  I  owe  the  mentioned  happiness  of 
my  past  life  to  His  kind  providence,  which  lead  me  to  the 
means  I  used  and  gave  them  success.  My  belief  of  this 
induces  me  to  hope,  though  I  must  not  presume,  that  the 
sam.e  goodness  will  still  be  exercised  toward  me,  in  con- 
tinuing that  happiness,  or  enabling  me  to  bear  a  fatal 
reverse,  which  I  may  experience  as  others  have  done: 
the  complexion  of  my  future  fortune  being  knov/n  to 
Him  only  in  whose  power  it  is  to  bless  to  us  even  our 
afflictions. 

The  notes  one  of  my  uncles  (who  had  the  same  kind  of 
curiosity  in  collecting  family  anecdotes)  once  put  into  my 
hands,  furnished  me  with  several  particulars  relating  to  our 
ancestors.  From  these  notes  I  learned  that  the  family  had 
lived  in  the  same  village,  Ecton,  in  Northamptonshire,  for 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  7 

three  hundred  years,  and  how  much  longer  he  knew  not 
(perhaps  from  the  time  when  the  name  of  Franklin,  that  be- 
fore was  the  name  of  an  order  of  people,  was  assumed 
by  them  as  a  surname  when  others  took  surnames  all  over 
the  kingdom),  on  a  freehold  of  about  thirty  acres,  aided  by 
the  smith's  business,  which  had  continued  in  the  family  till 
his  time,  the  eldest  son  being  always  bred  to  that  business; 
a  custom  which  he  and  my  father  followed  as  to  their  eldest 
sons.  When  I  searched  the  registers  at  Ecton,  I  found  an 
account  of  their  births,  marriages  and  burials  from  the 
year  1555  only,  there  being  no  registers  kept  in  that  parish 
at  any  time  preceding.  By  that  register  I  perceived  that  I 
was  the  youngest  son  of  the  youngest  son  for  five  generations 
back.  My  grandfather  Thomas,  who  was  born  in  1598,  lived 
at  Ecton  till  he  grew  too  old  to  follow  business  longer,  when 
he  went  to  live  with  his  son  John,  a  dyer  at  Banbury,  in 
Oxfordshire,  with  whom  my  father  served  an  apprentice- 
ship. There  my  grandfather  died  and  lies  buried.  We  saw 
his  gravestone  in  1758.  His  eldest  son  Thomas  lived  in  the 
house  at  Ecton,  and  left  it  with  the  land  to  his  only  child, 
a  daughter,  who,  with  her  husband,  one  Fisher,  of  Welling- 
borough, sold  it  to  Mr.  Isted,  now  lord  of  the  manor  there. 
My  grandfather  had  four  sons  that  grew  up,  viz. :  Thomas, 
John,  Benjamin  and  Josiah.  I  will  give  you  what  account 
I  can  of  them,  at  this  distance  from  my  papers,  and  if  these 
are  not  lost  in  my  absence,  you  will  among  them  find  many 
more  particulars. 

Thomas  was  bred  a  smith  under  his  father;  but,  being 
ingenious,  and  encouraged  in  learning  (as  all  my  brothers 
were)  by  an  Esquire  Palmer,  then  the  principal  gentleman  in 
that  parish,  he  qualified  himself  for  the  business  of  scrivener; 
became  a  considerable  man  in  the  county ;  was  a  chief  mover 
of  all  public-spirited  undertakings  for  the  county  or  town  of 
Northampton,  and  his  own  village,  of  which  many  instances 
were  related  of  him;  and  much  taken  notice  of  and  patron- 
ized by  the  then  Lord  Halifax.  He  died  in  1702,  January  6, 
old  style,  just  four  years  to  a  day  before  I  was  born.  The 
account  we  received  of  his  life  and  character  from  some 
old  people  at  Ecton,  I  remember,  struck  you  as  something 
extraordinary,  from  its  similarity  to  what  you  knew  of  minCo 


8  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

"  Had  he  died  on  the  same  day,"  you  said,  "  one  might  have 
supposed  a  transmigration." 

John  was  bred  a  dyer,  I  believe  of  woolens.  Benjamin 
was  bred  a  silk  dyer,  serving  an  apprenticeship  at  London. 
He  was  an  ingenious  man.  I  remember  him  well,  for  when 
I  was  a  boy  he  came  over  to  my  father  in  Boston,  and  lived 
in  the  house  with  us  some  years.  He  lived  to  a  great  age. 
His  grandson,  Samuel  Franklin,  now  lives  in  Boston.  He 
left  behind  him  two  quarto  volumes,  MS.,  of  his  own  poetry, 
consisting  of  little  occasional  pieces  addressed  to  his  friends 
and  relations,  of  which  the  following,  sent  to  me,  is  a  speci- 
men.^ He  had  formed  a  short-hand  of  his  own,  which  he 
taught  me,  but,  never  practising  it,  I  have  now  forgot  it. 
I  was  named  after  this  uncle,  there  being  a  particular  affect 
tion  between  him  and  my  father.  He  was  very  pious,  a  great 
attender  of  sermons  of  the  best  preachers,  which  he  took 
down  in  his  short-hand,  and  had  with  him  many  volumes  of 
them.  He  was  also  much  of  a  politician ;  too  much,  perhaps, 
for  his  station.  There  fell  lately  into  my  hands,  in  London, 
a  collection  he  had  made  of  all  the  principal  pamphlets, 
relating  to  public  affairs,  from  1641  to  1717;  many  of 
the  volumes  are  wanting  as  appears  by  the  numbering, 
but  there  still  remain  eight  volumes  in  folio,  and  twenty- 
four  in  quarto  and  in  octavo.  A  dealer  in  old  books 
met  with  them,  and  knowing  me  by  my  sometimes  buy- 
ing of  him,  he  brought  them  to  me.  It  seems  my  uncle 
must  have  left  them  here,  when  he  went  to  America,  which 
was  about  fifty  years  since.  There  are  many  of  his  notes 
in  the  margins. 

This  obscure  family  of  ours  was  early  in  the  Reformation, 
and  continued  Protestants  through  the  reign  of  Queen  Mary, 
when  they  were  sometimes  in  danger  of  trouble  on  account 
of  their  zeal  against  popery.  They  had  got  an  English 
Bible,  and  to  conceal  and  secure  it,  it  was  fastened  open 
with  tapes  under  and  within  the  cover  of  a  joint-stool.  When 
my  great-great-grandfather  read  It  to  his  family,  he  turned 
up  the  joint-stool  upon  his  knees,  turning  over  the  leaves  then 

^  Here  follow  in  the  margin  the  words,  in  brackets,  "here  insert  it,"  but 
the  poetry  is  not  given.  Mr.  Sparks  informs  us  (Life  of  Franklin,  p.  6) 
that  these  volumes  had  been  preserved,  and  were  in  possession  of  MtS4 
Emmons,  of  Boston>  greatrgranddaughter  of  their  author. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  9 

under  the  tapes.  One  of  the  children  stood  at  the  door  to 
give  notice  if  he  saw  the  apparitor  coming,  who  was  an 
officer  of  the  spiritual  court.  In  that  case  the  stool  was  turned 
down  again  upon  its  feet,  when  the  Bible  remained  concealed 
under  it  as  before.  This  anecdote  I  had  from  my  uncle 
Benjamin.  The  family  continued  all  of  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land till  about  the  end  of  Charles  the  Second's  reign, 
when  some  of  the  ministers  that  had  been  outed  for  non- 
conformity holding  conventicles  in  Northamptonshire,  Ben- 
jamin and  Josiah  adhered  to  them,  and  so  continued  all 
their  lives :  the  rest  of  the  family  remained  with  the  Episco- 
pal Church. 

Josiah,  my  father,  married  young,  and  carried  his  wife 
with  three  children  into  New  England,  about  1682.  The 
conventicles  having  been  forbidden  by  law,  and  frequently 
disturbed,  induced  some  considerable  men  of  his  acquaintance 
to  remove  to  that  country,  and  he  was  prevailed  with  to  ac- 
company them  thither,  where  they  expected  to  enjoy  their 
mode  of  religion  with  freedom.  By  the  same  wife  he  had 
four  children  more  born  there,  and  by  a  second  wife  ten 
more,  in  all  seventeen ;  of  which  I  remember  thirteen  sitting 
at  one  time  at  his  table,  who  all  grew  up  to  be  men  and 
women,  and  married ;  I  was  the  youngest  son,  and  the  young- 
est child  but  two,  and  was  born  in  Boston,  New  Eng- 
land. My  mother,  the  second  wife,  was  Abiah  Folger, 
daughter  of  Peter  Folger,  one  of  the  first  settlers  of  New 
England,  of  whom  honorable  mention  is  made  by  Cotton 
Mather,  in  his  church  history  of  that  country,  entitled 
Magnalia  Christi  Americana;,  as  '"o  godly,  learned  English- 
man, "  if  I  remember  the  words  rightly,  I  have  heard 
that  he  wrote  sundry  small  occasional  pieces,  but  -  only 
pne  of  them  was  printed,  which  I  saw  now  many  years  since. 
It  was  written  in  1675,  in  the  home-spun  verse  of  that  time 
and  people,  and  addressed  to  those  then  concerned  in  the 
government  there.  It  was  in  f  a-vor  of  liberty  of  conscience,  and 
in  behalf  of  the  Baptists,  Quakers,  and  other  sectaries  that 
had  been  under  persecution,  ascribing  the  Indian  wars,  and 
other  distresses  that  had  befallen  the  country,  to  that  perse- 
cution, as  so  many  judgments  of  God  to  punish  so  heinous 
an  offense,  and  exhorting  a  repeal  of  those  uncharitable  laws. 


10  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

The  whole  appeared  to  me  as  written  with  a  good  deal  o£ 
decent  plainness  and  manly  freedom.  The  six  concluding 
lines  I  remember,  though  I  have  forgotten  the  two  first  of 
the  stanza;  but  the  purport  of  them  was,  that  his  censures 
proceeded  from  good-will,  and,  therefore,  he  would  be  known 
to  be  the  author. 

"  Because  to  be  a  libeller  (says  lie) 

I  hate  it  with  my  heart; 
From  Sherburne  town,  where  now  I  dwell 

My  name  I  do  put  here ; 
Without  offense  your  real  friend. 

It  is  Peter  Folgier." 

My  elder  brothers  were  all  put  apprentices  to  different 
trades.  I  was  put  to  the  grammar-school  at  eight  5^ears  of 
age,  my  father  intending  to  devote  me,  as  the  tithe  of  his 
sons,  to  the  service  of  the  Church.  My  early  readiness  in 
learning  to  read  (which  must  have  been  very  early,  as  I  do  not 
remember  when  I  could  not  read),  and  the  opinion  of  all  his 
friends,  that  I  should  certainly  make  a  good  scholar,  encour- 
aged him  in  this  purpose  of  his^  My  uncle  Benjamin,  too, 
approved  of  it,  and  proposed  to  give  me  all  his  short-hand 
volumes  of  sermons,  I  suppose  as  a  stock  to  set  up  with,  if  I 
would  learn  his  character.  I  continued,  however,  at  the 
grammar-school  not  quite  one  year,  though  in  that  time  I 
had  risen  gradually  from  the  middle  of  the  class  of  that  year 
to  be  the  head  of  it,  and  farther  was  rem.oved  into  the  next 
class  above  it,  in  order  to  go  with  that  into  the  third  at  the 
end  of  the  year.  But  my  father,  in  the  meantime,  from  a 
view  of  the  expense  of  a  college  education,  which  having  so 
large  a  family  he  could  not  well  afford,  and  the  mean  living 
many  so  educated  were  afterwards  able  to  obtain — reasons 
that  he  gave  to  his  friends  in  my  hearing— altered  his  first 
intention,  took  me  from  the  grammar-school,  and  sent  me  to 
a  school  for  writing  and  arithmetic^  kept  by  a  then  famous 
man,  Mr.  George  Brownell,  very  successful  in  his  profession 
generally,  and  that  by  mild,  encouraging  miethods.  Under 
him  I  acquired  fair  writing  pretty  soon,  but  I  failed  in  the 
arithmetic,  and  made  no  progress  in  it.  At  ten  years  old 
I  was  taken  home  to  assist  my  father  in  his  business,  which 
was  that  of  a  tallow-chandler  and  sope-boiler ;  a  business  he 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  11 

was  not  bred  to,  but  had  assumed  on  his  arrival  in  New 
England,  and  on  finding  his  dying  trade  would  not  main- 
tain his  family,  being  in  little  request.  Accordingly,  I  was 
employed  in  cutting  wick  for  the  candles,  filling  the  dipping 
mold  and  the  molds  for  cast  candles,  attending  the  shop, 
going  of  errands,  etc. 

I  disliked  the  trade,  and  had  a  strong  inclination  for  the 
sea,  but  my  father  declared  against  it;  however,  living  near 
the  water,  I  was  much  in  and  about  it,  learnt  early  to  swim 
well,  and  to  manage  boats;  and  when  in  a  boat  or  canoe 
with  other  boys,  I  was  commonly  allowed  to  govern, 
especially  in  any  case  of  difficulty;  and  upon  other  occasions 
I  was  generally  a  leader  among  the  boys,  and  sometimes 
led  them  into  scrapes,  of  which  I  will  mention  one  instance, 
as  it  shows  an  early  projecting  public  spirit,  tho'  not  then 
justly  conducted. 

There  was  a  salt-marsh  that  bounded  part  of  the  mill-pond, 
on  the  edge  of  which,  at  high  water,  we  used  to  stand  to 
fish  for  minnows.  By  much  trampling,  we  had  made  it  a 
mere  quagmire.  My  proposal  was  to  build  a  wharff  there 
fi.t  for  us  to  stand  upon,  and  I  showed  my  comrades  a  large 
heap  of  stones,  which  were  intended  for  a  new  house  near 
the  marsh,  and  which  v/ould  very  well  suit  our  purpose. 
Accordingly,  in  the  evening,  v/hen  the  workmen  were  gone, 
I  assembled  a  number  of  my  play-fellows,  and  working  with 
them  diligently  like  so  many  emmets,  sometimes  two  of 
three  to  a  stone,  we  brought  them  all  away  and  built  our 
little  wharfi.  The  next  morning  the  workmen  were  sur- 
prised at  missing  the  stones,  which  were  found  in  our 
wharff.  Inquiry  was  made  after  the  removers;  we  were 
discovered  and  complained  of;  several  of  us  were  corrected 
by  our  fathers;  and  though  I  pleaded  the  usefulness  of  the 
work,  mine  convinced  me  that  nothing  was  useful  which 
was  not  honest. 

I  think  you  may  like  to  know  som.ething  of  his  person  and 
character.  He  had  an  excellent  constitution  of  body,  was 
of  middle  stature,  but  v/ell  set,  and  very  strong;  he  was 
ingenious,  could  draw  prettily,  was  skilled  a  little  in  music, 
and  had  a  clear  pleasing  voice,  so  that  when  he  played 
psalm  tunes  on  his  violin  and  sung  withal,  as  he  sometimes 


12  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

did  m  an  evening  after  the  business  of  the  day  was  over, 
it  was  extremely  agreeable  to  hear.  He  had  a  mechanical 
genius  too,  and,  on  occasion,  was  very  handy  in  the  use  of 
other  tradesmen's  tools;  but  his  great  excellence  lay  in  a 
sound  understanding  and  solid  judgment  in  prudential  mat- 
ters, both  in  private  and  publick  affairs.  In  the  latter, 
indeed,  he  was  never  employed,  the  numerous  family  he  had 
to  educate  and  the  straitness  of  his  circumstances  keeping 
him  close  to  his  trade;  but  I  remember  well  his  being  fre- 
quently visited  by  leading  people,  who  consulted  him  for 
his  opinion  in  affairs  of  the  town  or  of  the  church  he 
belonged  to,  and  showed  a  good  deal  of  respect  for  his 
judgment  and  advice:  he  was  also  much  consulted  by 
private  persons  about  their  affairs  [when  any  difficulty 
occurred,  and  frequently  chosen  an  arbitrator  between 
contending  parties. 

At  his  table  he  liked  to  have,  as  often  as  he  could,  some 
sensible  friend  or  neighbor  to  converse  with,  and  always 
took  care  to  start  some  ingenious  or  useful  topic  for  dis- 
course, which  might  tend  to  improve  the  minds  of  his 
children.  By  this  means  he  turned  our  attention  to  what 
was  good,  just,  and  prudent  in  the  conduct  of  life;  and 
little  or  no  notice  was  ever  taken  of  what  related  to  the 
victuals  on  the  table,  whether  it  was  well  or  ill  dressed,  in 
or  out  of  season,  of  good  or  bad  flavor,  preferable  or  inferior 
to  this  or  that  other  thing  of  the  kind,  so  that  I  was  bro't 
lUp  in  such  a  perfect  inattention  to  those  matters  as  to  be 
quite  indifferent  what  kind  of  food  was  set  before  me,  and 
so  unobservant  of  it,  that  to  this  day  if  I  am  asked  I  can 
scarce  tell  a  few  hours  after  dinner  what  I  dined  upon.  This 
has  been  a  convenience  to  me  in  travelling,  where  my 
companions  have  been  sometimes  very  unhappy  for  want 
of  a  suitable  gratification  of  their  more  delicate,  because 
better  instructed,  tastes  and  appetites. 

My  mother  had  likewise  an  excellent  constitution:  she 
suckled  all  her  ten  children.  I  never  knew  either  my 
father  or  mother  to  have  any  sickness  but  that  of  which 
they  dy'd,  he  at  89,  and  she  at  85  years  of  age.  They  lie 
buried  together  at  Boston,  where  I  some  years  since  placed 
a  marble  over  their  gr^ive,  with  this  inscription: 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  13 

JosiAH  Franklin, 

and 

Abiah  his  wife, 

lie  here  interred. 

\  They  lived  lovingly  together  in  wedlock 

fifty-five  years. 

Without  an  estate,  or  any  gainful  emploj^nenfj 

By  constant  labor  and  industry, 

with  God's  blessing, 
They  maintained  a  large  family 

comfortably, 

and  brought  up  thirteen  children 

and  seven  grandchildren 

reputably. 

From  this  instance,  reader, 

Be  encouraged  to  diligence  in  thy  calling, 

And  distrust  not  Providence. 

He  was  a  pious  and  prudent  man; 

She,  a  discreet  and  virtuous  woman. 

Their  youngest  son. 

In  filial  regard  to  their  memory. 

Places  this  stone* 

J.  F.  born  1655,  died  1744,  -^tat  89. 

A.  F.  born  1667,  died  1752, 85. 

By  my  rambling  digressions  I  perceive  myself  to  be  grown 
old.  I  us'd  to  write  more  methodically.  But  one  does  not 
dress  for  private  company  as  for  a  publick  ball.  'Tis  per* 
haps  only  negligence. 

To  return:  I  continued  thus  employed  in  my  father's 
business  for  two  years,  that  is,  till  I  was  twelve  years  old; 
and  my  brother  John,  who  was  bred  to  that  business,  having 
left  my  father,  married,  and  set  up  for  himself  at  Rhode 
Island,  there  was  all  appearance  that  I  was  destined  to  supply 
his  place,  and  become  a  tallow-chandler.  But  my  dislike  to 
the  trade  continuing,  my  father  was  under  apprehensions 
that  if  he  did  not  find  one  for  me  more  agreeable,  I  should 
break  away  and  get  to  sea,  as  his  son  Josiah  had  done,  to ' 
his  great  vexation.  He  therefore  sometimes  took  me  to 
walk  with  him,  and  see  joiners,  bricklayers,  turners,  braziers, 
etc.,  at  their  work,  that  he  might  observe  my  inclination, 
and  endeavor  to  fix  it  on  some  trade  or  other  on  land.  It 
has  ever  since  been  a  pleasure  to  m.e  to  see  good  workmen 
handle  their  tools;  and  it  has  been  useful  to  me,  having 
learnt  so  much  by  it  as  to  be  able  to  do  little  jobs  myseli 


14  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN  ' 

in  my  house  when  a  workman  could  not  readily  be  got,  and 
to  construct  little  machines  for  my  experiments,  while  the 
intention  of  making  the  experiment  was  fresh  and  warm  in 
my  mind.  My  father  at  last  fixed  upon  the  cutler's  trade, 
and  my  uncle  Benjamin's  son  Samuel,  who  was  bred  to  that 
business  in  London,  being  about  that  time  established  in 
Boston,  I  was  sent  to  be  with  him  some  time  on  liking.  But 
his  expectations  of  a  fee  with  me  displeasing  my  father,  I 
was  taken  home  again. 

From  a  child  I  was  fond  of  reading,  and  all  the  little 
money  that  came  into  my  hands  was  ever  laid  out  in  books. 
Pleased  with  the  Pilgrim's  Progress,  my  first  collection  was 
of  John  Bunyan's  works  in  separate  little  volumes.  I  after- 
ward sold  them  to  enable  me  to  buy  R.  Burton's  Historical 
Collections;  they  were  small  chapmen's  books,  and  cheap, 
40  or  50  in  all.  My  father's  little  library  consisted  chiefly 
of  books  in  polemic  divinity,  most  of  which  I  read,  and 
have  since  often  regretted  that,  at  a  time  when  I  had  such 
a  thirst  for  knowledge,  more  proper  books  had  not  fallen 
in  my  way,  since  it  was  now  resolved  I  should  not  be  a 
clergyman.  Plutarch's  Lives  there  was  in  which  I  read 
abundantly,  and  I  still  think  that  time  spent  to  great  advan- 
tage. There  was  also  a  book  of  De  Foe's,  called  an  Essay 
on  Projects,  and  another  of  Dr.  Mather's,  called  Essays  to 
do  Good,  which  perhaps  gave  me  a  turn  of  thinking  that 
had  an  influence  on  some  of  the  principal  future  events  of 
my  life. 

This  bookish  inclination  at  length  determined  my  father 
to  make  me  a  printer,  though  he  had  already  one  son 
(James)  of  that  profession.  In  1717  my  brother  James 
returned  from  England  with  a  press  and  letters  to  set  up 
his  business  in  Boston.  I  liked  it  m.uch  better  than  that  of 
my  father,  but  still  had  a  hankering  for  the  sea.  To  prevent 
the  apprehended  effect  of  such  an  inclination,  my  father 
was  impatient  to  have  me  bound  to  my  brother.  I  stood 
out  some  time,  but  at  last  was  persuaded,  and  signed  the 
indentures  when  I  was  yet  but  twelve  years  old.  I  was  to 
serve  as  an  apprentice  till  I  was  twenty-one  years  of  age, 
only  I  was  to  be  allmved  journeyman's  wages  during  the 
last  year.    In  a  little  trnie  I  mad^  great  proficiency  in  the 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  15 

business,  and  became  a  useftil  hand  to  my  brother.  I  now 
had  access  to  better  books.  An  acquaintance  with  the 
apprentices  of  booksellers  enabled  me  sometimes  to  borrow 
a  small  one,  which  I  was  careful  to  return  soon  and  clean. 
Often  i  sat  up  in  my  room  reading  the  greatest  part  of  the 
night,  when  the  book  v/as  borrowed  irt  the  evening  and  to 
be  returned  early  in  the  morning,  lest  it  should  be  missed 
or  wanted. 

And  after  some  time  an  ingenious  tradesman,.  Mr.  Matthew 
Adams,  who  had  a  pretty  collection  of  books,  and  who  fre- 
quented our  printing-house,  took  notice  of  me,  invited  me 
to  his  library,  and  very  kindly  lent  me  such  books  as  I  chose 
to  read.  I  now  took  a  fancy  to  poetry,  and  m.ade  some  little 
pieces;  m.y  brother,  thinking  it  might  turn  to  account, 
encouraged  me,  and  put  me  on  composing  occasional  bal- 
lads. One  was  called  The  Lighthouse  Tragedy,  and  con- 
tained an  account  of  the  drowning  of  Captain  Worthilake, 
with  his  two  daughters:  the  other  was  a  sailor's  song,  on 
the  taking  of  Teach  (or  Blackbeard)  the  pirate.  They  were 
wretched  stuff,  in  the  Grub-street-ballad  style;  and  when 
they  were  printed  he  sent  m.e  about  the  town  to  sell  them. 
The  first  sold  wonderfully,  the  event  being  recent,  having 
made  a  great  noise.  This  flattered  my  vanity ;  but  m.y  father 
discouraged  me  by  ridiculing  my  perform.ances,  and  telling 
me  verse-makers  were  generally  beggars.  So  I  escaped 
being  a  poet,  most  probably  a  very  bad  one;  but  as  prose 
writing  had  been  of  great  use  to  me  in  the  course  of  my 
life,  and  was  a  principal  means  of  my  advancement,  I  shall 
tell  you  how,  in  such  a  situation,  I  acquired  what  little 
ability  I  have  in  that  way. 

There  was  another  bookish  lad  in  the  town,  John  Collins 
by  name,  with  whom  I  was  intimately  acquainted.  We 
sometimes  disputed,  and  very  fond  we  were  of  argument, 
and  very  desirous  of  confuting  one  another,  which  disputa- 
tious turn,  by  the  way,  is  apt  to  become  a  very  bad  habit, 
making  people  often  extremely  disagreeable  in  company  by 
the  contradiction  that  is  necessary  to  bring  it  into  practice; 
and  thence,  besides  souring  and  spoiling  the  conversation, 
is  productive  of  disgusts  and,  perhaps  enmities  where  you 
may  have  occasion  for  friendship.    I  had  caught  it  by  read- 


16  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

ing  my  father's  books  of  dispute  about  religion.  Persons  of 
good  sense^  I  have  since  observed,  seldom  fall  into  it,  except 
lawyers,  university  men,  and  men  of  all  sorts  thac  have 
been  bred  at  Edinborough. 

A  question  was  once,  somehow  or  other,  started  between 
Collins  and  me,  of  the  propriety  of  educating  the  female  sex 
in  learning,  and  their  abilities  for  study.  He  was  of  opinion 
that  it  was  improper,  and  that  they  were  naturally  unequal 
to  it.  I  took  the  contrary  side^  perhaps  a  little  for  dispute's 
sake.  He  was  naturally  more  eloquent,  had  a  ready  plenty 
of  words;  and  sometimes,  as  I  thought,  bore  me  down 
more  by  his  fluency  than  by  the  strength  of  his  reasons. 
As  we  parted  without  settling  the  point,  and  were  not  to 
see  one  another  again  for  some  time,  I  sat  down  to  put  my 
arguments  in  writing,  which  I  copied  fair  and  sent  to  him. 
He  answered,  and  I  replied.  Three  or  four  letters  of  a  side 
had  passed,  when  my  father  happened  to  find  my  papers 
and  read  them.  Without  entering  into  the  discussion,  he 
took  occasion  to  talk  to  me  about  the  manner  of  my  writing ; 
observed  that,  though  I  had  the  advantage  of  my  antagonist 
in  correct  spelling  and  pointing  (which  I  ow'd  to  the 
printing-house),  I  fell  far  short  in  elegance  of  expression, 
in  method  and  in  perspicuity,  of  which  he  convinced  me 
by  several  instances.  I  saw  the  justice  of  his  remark,  and 
thence  grew  more  attentive  to  the  manner  in  writing,  and 
determined  to  endeavor  at  improvement. 

About  this  time  I  met  with  an  odd  volume  of  the  Spectator. 
It  was  the  third.  I  had  never  before  seen  any  of  them.  I 
bought  it,  read  it  over  and  over,  and  was  much  delighted 
with  it.  I  thought  the  writing  excellent,  and  wished,  if 
possible,  to  imitate  it.  With  this  view  I  took  some  of  the 
papers,  and,  making  short  hints  of  the  sentiment  in  each 
sentence,  laid  them  by  a  few  days,  and  then,  without  looking 
at  the  book,  tr/d  to  compleat  the  papers  again,  by  express- 
ing each  hinted  sentiment  at  length,  and  as  fully  as  it  had 
been  expressed  before,  in  any  suitable  words  that  should 
come  to  hand.  Then  I  compared  my  Spectator  with  the 
original,  discovered  some  of  my  faults,  and  corrected  them. 
But  I  found  I  wanted  a  stock  of  words,  or  a  readiness  in 
recollecting  and  using  them,  which  I  thought  I  should  have 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  17 

acquired  before  that  time  if  I  had  gone  on  making  verses; 
since  the  continual  occasion  for  words  of  the  same  import, 
but  of  ditterent  length,  to  suit  the  measure,  or  of  different 
sound  for  the  rhyme,  would  have  laid  me  under  a  constant 
necessity  of  searching  for  variety,  and  also  have  tended  to 
fix  that  variety  in  my  mind,  and  make  me  master  of  it. 
Therefore  I  took  some  of  the  tales  and  turned  them  into 
verse;  and,  after  a  time,  when  I  had  pretty  well  forgotten 
the  prose,  turned  them  back  again.  I  also  sometimes 
jumbled  m.y  collections  of  hints  into  confusion,  and  after 
some  weeks  endeavored  to  reduce  them  into  the  best  order, 
before  1  began  to  form  the  full  sentences  and  compleat  the 
paper.  This  was  to  teach  me  method  in  the  arrangement 
of  thoughts.  By  comparing  my  work  afterwards  with  the 
original,  I  discovered  many  faults  and  amended  them;  but 
I  sometimes  had  the  pleasure  of  fancying  that,  in  certain 
particulars  of  small  import,  I  had  been  lucky  enough  to 
improve  the  method  or  the  language,  and  this  encouraged 
me  to  think  I  might  possibly  in  time  come  to  be  a  tolerable 
English  writer,  of  which  I  was  extremely  ambitious.  My 
time  for  these  exercises  and  for  reading  was  at  night,  after 
work  or  before  it  began  in  the  morning,  or  on  Sundays, 
when  I  contrived  to  be  in  the  printing-house  alone,  evading 
as  much  as  I  could  the  common  attendance  on  public  worship 
which  my  father  used  to  exact  on  me  when  I  was  under 
his  care,  and  which  indeed  I  still  thought  a  duty,  though  I 
could  not,  as  it  seemed  to  me,  afford  time  to  practise  it. 

When  about  i6  years  of  age  I  happened  to  meet  v/ith  a 
book,  written  by  one  Tryon,  recommending  a  vegetable  diet. 
I  determined  to  go  into  it.  My  brother,  being  yet  unmarried, 
did  not  keep  house,  but  boarded  himself  and  his  apprentices 
in  another  family.  My  refusing  to  eat  flesh  occasioned  an 
inconveniency,  and  I  was  frequently  chid  for  my  singularity. 
I  made  myself  acquainted  with  Tryon's  manner  of  preparing 
some  of  his  dishes,  such  as  boiling  potatoes  or  rice,  making 
hasty  pudding,  and  a  few  others,  and  then  proposed  to  my 
brother,  that  if  he  would  give  me,  weekly,  half  the  money 
he  paid  for  my  board,  I  would  board  myself.  He  instantly 
agreed  to  it,  and  I  presently  found  that  I  could  save  half 
what  he  paid  me»    This  vvras  an  additional  fund  for  buying 


18  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

books.  But  I  had  another  advantage  in  it.  My  brother  and 
the  rest  going  from  the  printing-house  to  their  meals,  I 
remained  there  alone,  and,  despatching  presently  my  light 
repast,  which  often  was  no  more  than  a  bisket  or  a  slice 
of  bread,  a  handful  of  raisins  or  a  tart  from  the  pastry- 
cook's, and  a  glass  of  water,  had  the  rest  of  the  time  till 
their  return  for  study,  in  which  I  made  the  greater  progress, 
from  that  greater  clearness  of  head  and  quicker  apprehen- 
sion which  usually  attend  temperance  in  eating  and  drinking. 

And  now  it  was  that,  being  on  some  occasion  made  asham'd 
of  my  ignorance  in  figures,  w^hich  I  had  twice  failed  in 
learning  when  at  school,  I  took  Cocker's  book  of  Arith- 
metick,  and  went  through  the  whole  by  myself  with  great 
ease.  I  also  read  Seller's  and  Shermy's  books  of  Navigation, 
and  became  acquainted  with  the  little  geometry  they  contain ; 
but  never  proceeded  far  in  that  science.  And  I  read  about 
this  time  Locke  On  Htmmn  Understanding,  and  the  Art  of 
Thinking,  by  Messrs.  du  Port  Royal. 

While  I  was  intent  on  improving  my  language,  I  met  with 
an  English  grammar  (I  think  it  was  Greenwood's),  at  the 
end  of  which  there  were  two  little  sketches  of  the  arts  of 
rhetoric  and  logic,  the  latter  finishing  with  a  specim.en  of  a 
dispute  in  the  Socratic  method;  and  soon  after  I  procur'd 
Xenophon's  Memorable  Things  of  Socrates,  wherein  there 
are  many  instances  of  the  same  method.  I  was  charm'd  Vvdth 
it,  adopted  it,  dropt  my  abrupt  contradiction  and  positive 
argumentation,  and  put  en  the  humble  inquirer  and  doubter. 
And  being  then,  from  reading  Shaftesbury  and  Collins, 
become  a  real  doubter  in  many  points  of  our  religious  doc- 
trine, I  found  this  method  safest  for  myself  and  very  embar- 
rassing to  those  against  whom  I  used  it;  therefore  I  took  a 
delight  in  it,  practis'd  it  continually,  and  grew  very  artful 
and  expert  in  drawing  people,  even  of  superior  knowledge, 
into  concessions,  the  consequences  of  which  they  did  not 
foresee,  entangling  them  in  difiiculties  out  of  which  they 
could  not  extricate  themselves,  and  so  obtaining  victories 
that  neither  myself  nor  my  cause  always  deserved.  I  con- 
tinu'd  this  method  some  few  years,  but  gradually  left  it, 
retaining  only  the  habit  of  expressing  myself  in  terms  of 
modest  diffidence;  never  using,  when  I  advanced  any  thing 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  19 

that  may  possibly  be  disputed,  the  words  certainly,  undoubt- 
edly, or  any  others  that  give  the  air  of  positiveness  to  an 
opinion ;  but  rather  say,  I  conceive  or  apprehend  a  thing  to 
be  so  and  so ;  it  appears  to  me,  or  /  shoiild  think  it  so  or  so, 
for  such  and  such  reasons;  or  /  imagine  it  to  he  so;  or  it  is 
so,  if  I  am  not  mistaken.  This  habit,  I  believe,  has  been  of 
great  advantage  to  me  when  I  have  had  occasion  to  incul- 
cate my  opinions,  and  persuade  men  into  measures  that  I 
have  been  from  time  to  time  engag'd  in  promoting;  and,  as 
the  chief  ends  of  conversation  are  to  inform  or  to  be 
informed,  to  please  or  to  persuade,  I  wish  well-meaning, 
sensible  m.en  would  not  lessen  their  power  of  doing  good  by 
a  positive,  assuming  manner,  that  seldom  fails  to  disgust, 
tends  to  create  opposition,  and  to  defeat  every  one  of  those 
purposes  for  which  speech  was  given  to  us,  to  wit,  giving 
or  receiving  information  or  pleasure.  For,  if  you  would 
inform,  a  positive  and  dogmatical  manner  in  advancing  your 
sentim.ents  may  provoke  contradiction  and  prevent  a  candid 
attention.  If  you  wish  information  and  im.provement  from 
the  knowledge  of  others,  and  yet  at  the  same  time  express 
yourself  as  firmly  fix'd  in  your  present  opinions,  m.odest, 
sensible  men,  who  do  not  love  disputation,  will  probably 
leave  you  undisturbed  in  the  possession  of  your  error.  And 
by  such  a  manner,  you  can  seldom  hope  to  recommend  your- 
self in  pleasing  your  hearers,  or  to  persuade  those  whose 
concurrence  you  desire.     Pope  says,  judiciously: 

"Men  should  he  taught  as  if  you  taught  them  not. 
And  things  unknown  propos'd  as  things  forgot;  " 

farther  recommending  to  us 

"  To  speak,  tho'  sure,  with  seeming  diffidence." 

And  he  might  have  coupled  with  this  line  that  which  he  has 
coupled  with  another,  I  think,  less  properly, 

"  For  want  of  modesty  is  want  of  sense." 
If  you  ask,  Why  less  properly?  I  must  repeat  the  lines, 

"  Immodest  words  admit  of  no  defense, 
For  want  of  modesty  is  want  of  sense." 

Now,  is  not  want  of  sense  (where  a  man  is  so  unfortunate 
as  to  want  it)  some  apology  for  his  want  of  modesty?  and 
would  not  the  lines  stand  more  justly  thus? 


20  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

"Immodest  words  admit  but  this  defense, 
That  want  of  modesty  is  want  of  sense." 

This,  however,  I  should  submit  to  better  judgments. 

My  brother  had,  in  1720  or  1721,  begun  to  print  a  news- 
paper. It  was  the  second  that  appeared  in  America,  and 
was  called  the  New  England  Courant  The  only  one  before 
it  was  the  Boston  News-Letter.  I  remember  his  being  dis- 
suaded by  some  of  his  friends  from  the  undertaking,  as  not 
likely  to  succeed,  one  newspaper  being,  in  their  judgment, 
enough  for  America.  At  this  time  (1771)  there  are  not  less 
than  five-and-twenty.  He  went  on,  however,  with  the 
undertaking,  and  after  having  worked  in  composing  the 
types  and  printing  off  the  sheets,  I  was  employed  to  carry 
the  papers  thro'  the  streets  to  the  customers. 

He  had  some  ingenious  men  among  his  friends,  who 
amus'd  themselves  by  writing  little  pieces  for  this  paper, 
which  gain'd  it  credit  and  made  it  more  in  demand,  and 
these  gentlemen  often  visited  us.  Hearing  their  conversa- 
tions, and  their  accounts  of  the  approbation  their  papers 
were  received  with,  I  was  excited  to  try  my  hand  among 
them ;  but,  being  still  a  boy,  and  suspecting  that  my  brother 
would  object  to  printing  anything  of  mine  in  his  paper  if 
he  knew  it  to  be  mine,  I  contrived  to  disguise  my  hand, 
and,  writing  an  anonymous  paper,  I  put  it  in  at  night  under 
the  door  of  the  printing-house.  It  was  found  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  communicated  to  his  writing  friends  when  they 
call'd  in  as  usual,  They  read  it,  commented  on  it  in  my 
hearing,  and  I  had  the  exquisite  pleasure  of  finding  it  met 
with  their  approbation,  and  that,  in  their  different  guesses 
at  the  author,  none  were  named  but  men  of  some  character 
among  us  for  learning  and  ingenuity.  I  suppose  now  that 
I  was  rather  lucky  in  my  judges,  and  that  perhaps  they  were 
not  really  so  very  good  ones  as  I  then  esteem'd  them. 

Encourag'd,  however,  by  this,  I  wrote  and  convey'd  in 
the  same  way  to  the  press  several  more  papers  which  were 
equally  approv'd;  and  I  kept  my  secret  till  my  small  fund 
of  sense  for  such  performances  was  pretty  well  exhausted, 
and  then  I  discovered  it,  when  I  began  to  be  considered  a 
little  m.ore  by  my  brother's  acquaintance,  and  in  a  manner 
that   did   not    quite   please   him,    as   he   thought,   probabl}r 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  21 

with  reason,  that  it  tended  to  make  me  too  vain.  And, 
perhaps,  this  might  be  one  occasion  of  the  differences  that 
we  began  to  have  about  this  time.  Though  a  brother,  he 
considered  himself  as  my  master,  and  me  as  his  appren- 
tice, and  accordingly,  expected  the  same  services  from  me 
as  he  would  from  another,  while  I  thought  he  demean'd 
me  too  much  in  some  he  requir'd  of  me,  who  from  a  brother 
expected  more  indulgence.  Our  disputes  were  often 
brought  before  our  father,  and  I  fancy  I  was  either  gen- 
erally in  the  right,  or  else  a  better  pleader,  because  the 
judgmxcnt  was  generally  in  my  favor.  But  my  brother 
was  passionate,  and  had  often  beaten  me,  which  I  took  ex- 
treamly  amiss ;  and,  thinking  my  apprenticeship  very  tedious, 
I  was  continually  wishing  for  some  opportunity  of  shorten- 
ing it,  which  at  length  offered  in  a  manner  unexpected.^ 

One  of  the  pieces  in  our  newspaper  on  some  political  point, 
which  I  have  now  forgotten,  gave  offense  to  the  Assembly. 
He  was  taken  up,  censur'd,  and  imprison'd  for  a  month,  by 
the  speaker's  warrant,  I  suppose,  because  he  would  not  dis- 
cover his  author.  I  too  was  taken  up  and  examin'd  before 
the  council;  but,  tho'  I  did  not  give  them  any  satisfaction, 
they  content'd  themselves  with  admonishing  me,  and  dis- 
missed me,  considering  me,  perhaps,  as  an  apprentice,  who 
was  bound  to  keep  his  master's  secrets. 

During  my  brother's  confinement,  which  I  resented  a 
good  deal,  notwithstanding  our  private  differences,  I  had 
the  management  of  the  paper;  and  I  made  bold  to  give  our 
rulers  some  rubs  in  it,  which  my  brother  took  very  kindly, 
while  others  began  to  consider  me  in  an  unfavorable  light, 
as  a  young  genius  that  had  a  turn  for  libelling  and  satyr. 
My  brother's  discharge  was  accompany'd  with  an  order  o£ 
the  House  (a  very  odd  one),  that  ''James  Franklin  should 
no  longer  print  the  paper  called  the  New  England  Courant" 

There  was  a  consultation  held  in  our  printing-house 
among  his  friends,  what  he  should  do  in  this  case.  Some 
proposed  to  evade  the  order  by  changing  the  name  of  the 
paper;  but  my  brother,  seeing  inconveniences  in  that,  it  was 
finally  concluded  on  as  a  better  way,  to  let  it  be  printed 

3  I  fancy  his  harsh  and  tyrannical  treatment  of  me  might  be  a  means  of 
impressing  me  with  that  aversion  to  arbitrary  power  that  has  stuck  to  me 
through  my  whole  life. 


22  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

for  the  future  under  the  name  of  Benjamii^  Franklin; 
and  to  avoid  the  censure  of  the  Assembly,  that  might  fall 
on  him  as  still  printing  it  by  his  apprentice,  the  contrivance 
was  that  my  old  indenture  should  be  return'd  to  me,  with 
a  full  discharge  on  the  back  of  it,  to  be  shown  on  occasion, 
but  to  secure  to  him  the  benefit  of  my  service,  I  was  to 
sign  new  indentures  for  the  remainder  of  the  term^,  which 
were  to  be  kept  private.  A  very  flimsy  scheme  it  v/as; 
however,  it  was  immediately  executed,  and  the  paper  went 
on  accordingly,  under  my  name  for  several  months. 

At  length,  a  fresh  difference  arising  between  my  brother 
and  me,  I  took  upon  me  to  assert  my  freedom,  presuming 
that  he  would  not  venture  to  produce  the  new  indentures. 
It  was  not  fair  in  me  to  take  this  advantage,  and  this  I 
therefore  reckon  one  of  the  first  errata  of  my  life;  but 
the  unfairness  of  it  weighed  little  with  me,  when  under 
the  impressions  oi  resentment  for  the  blows  his  passion 
too  often  urged  him  to  bestow  upon  me,  though  he  was 
otherwise  not  an  ill-natur'd  man:  perhaps  I  was  too  saucy 
and  provoking. 

AVhen  he  found  I  would  leave  him,  he  took  care  to  pre- 
vent my  getting  employment  in  any  other  printing-house  of 
the  town,  by  going  round  and  speaking  to  every  master, 
who  accordingly  refus'd  to  give  me  work,  I  then  thought 
of  going  to  New  York,  as  the  nearest  place  where  there 
was  a  printer;  and  I  was  rather  inclin'd  to  leave  Boston 
when  I  reflected  that  I  had  already  m.ade  myself  a  little 
obnoxious  to  the  governing  party,  and,  from  the  arbitrary 
proceedings  of  the  Assembly  in  my  brother's  case,  it  was 
likely  I  might,  if  I  stay'd,  soon  bring  myself  into  scrapes; 
and  farther,  that  my  indiscrete  disputations  about  religion 
began  to  make  me  pointed  at  with  horror  hy  good  people 
as  an  infidel  or  atheist.  I  determin'd  on  the  point,  but  my 
father  now  siding  with  my  brother,  I  was  sensible  that,  if 
I  attempted  to  go  openly,  means  would  be  used  to  prevent 
me.  My  friend  Collins,  therefore,  undertook  to  manage 
a  little  for  me.  He  agreed  v/ith  the  captain  of  a  New 
York  sloop  for  my  passage,  under  the  notion  of  may  being 
a  young  acquaintance  of  his,  that  had  got  a  naughty  girl 
with  child,  whose  friends  would  compel  me  to  marry  her, 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  23 

and  therefore  I  could  not  appear  or  come  away  publicly. 
So  I  sold  some  of  my  books  to  raise  a  little  money,  was 
taken  on  board  privately^  and  as  we  had  a  fair  wind,  in 
three  days  I  found  myself  in  New  York,  near  300  miles 
from  home>  a  boy  of  but  17,  without  the  least  recommenda- 
tion to,  or  knowledge  of  any  person  in  the  place,  and  with 
very  little  money  in  my  pocket. 

My  inclinations  for  the  sea  were  by  this  time  worne 
out,  or  I  might  now  have  gratify'd  them.  Butj  having  a 
trade,  and  supposing  myself  a  pretty  good  workman,  I 
offer'd  my  service  to  the  printer  in  the  place,  old  Mr. 
William  Bradford,  who  had  been  the  first  printer  in  Penn- 
sylvania, but  removed  from  thence  upon  the  quarrel  of 
George  Keith.  He  could  give  me  no  em.ployment,  having 
little  to  do,  and  help  enough  already ;  but  says  he,  "  My  son 
at  Philadelphia  has  lately  lost  his  principal  hand,  Aquila 
Rose,  by  death;  if  you  go  thither,  I  believe  he  may  employ 
you."  Philadelphia  was  a  hundred  miles  ftirther;  I  set 
out,  however,  in  a  boat  for  Amboy,  leaving  my  chest  and 
things  to  follow  me  round  by  sea. 

In  crossing  the  bay,  we  met  with  a  squall  that  tore  our 
rotten  sails  to  pieces,  prevented  our  getting  into  the  Kill, 
and  drove  us  upon  Long  Island.  In  our  way,  a  drunken 
Dutchman,  who  was  a  passenger  too,  fell  overboard;  when 
he  was  sinking,  I  reached  through  the  water  to  his  shock 
pate,  and  drew  him  up,  so  that  we  got  him  in  again.  His  , 
ducking  sobered  him  a  little,  and  he  went  to  sleep,  taking 
first  out  of  his  pocket  a  book,  which  he  desir'd  I  would 
dry  for  him.  It  proved  to  be  my  old  favorite  author,  Bun- 
yan's  Pilgrim's  Progress,  in  Dutch,  finely  printed  on  good 
paper,  with  copper  cuts,  a  dress  better  than  I  had  ever 
seen  it  wear  in  its  own  language.  I  have  since  found  that 
it  has  been  translated  into  most  of  the  languages  of  Europe, 
and  suppose  it  has  been  more  generally  read  than  any 
other  book,  except  perhaps  the  Bible.  Honest  John  was 
the  first  that  I  know  of  who  mix'd  narration  and  dialogue; 
a  method  of  waiting  very  engaging  to  the  reader,  who  in 
the  most  interesting  parts  finds  himself,  as  it  were,  brought 
into  the  company  and  present  at  the  discourse.  De  Foe  in 
his  Cruso,  his  Moll  Flanders,  Religious  Courtship,  Family 


24  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

Instructor,  and  other  pieces,  has  imitated  it  with  success; 
and  Richardson  has  done  the  same  in  his  Pamela,  etc. 

When  we  drew  near  the  island,  we  found  it  was  at  a 
place  where  there  could  be  no  landing,  there  being  a  great 
surff  on  the  stony  beach.  So  we  dropt  anchor,  and  swung 
round  towards  the  shore.  Some  people  came  down  to  the 
water  edge  and  hallow'd  to  us,  as  we  did  to  them;  but  the 
wind  was  so  high,  and  the  surff  so  loud,  that  we  could  not 
hear  so  as  to  understand  each  other.  There  were  canoes 
on  the  shore,  and  we  made  signs^  and  hallow'd  that  they 
should  fetch  us;  but  they  either  did  not  understand  us,  or 
thought  it  impracticable^  so  they  went  away,  and  night 
coming  on,  we  had  no  remedy  but  to  wait  till  the  wind 
should  abate;  and,  in  the  meantime,  the  boatman  and  I  con- 
cluded to  sleep,  if  we  could ;  and  so  crowded  into  the  scuttle, 
with  the  Dutchman,  who  was  still  wet,  and  the  spray 
beating  over  the  head  of  our  boat,  leak'd  thro'  to  us,  so  that 
we  were  soon  almost  as  wet  as  he.  In  this  manner  we 
lay  all  night,  with  very  little  rest;  but,  the  wind  abating 
the  next  day,  we  made  a  shift  to  reach  Amboy  before 
night,  having  been  thirty  hours  on  the  water,  without  vic- 
tuals, or  any  drink  but  a  bottle  of  filthy  rum,  and  the  water  we 
sail'd  on  being  salt. 

In  the  evening  I  found  myself  very  feverish,  and  went 
in  to  bed ;  but,  having  read  somewhere  that  cold  water  drank 
plentifully  was  good  for  a  fever,  I  follow'd  the  prescription, 
sweat  plentiful  most  of  the  night,  my  fever  left  me,  and  in 
the  morning,  crossing  the  ferry,  I  proceeded  on  my  journey 
©n  foot,  having  fifty  miles  to  Burlington,  where  I  was  told 
I  should  find  boats  that  would  carry  me  the  rest  of  the  way 
to  Philadelphia. 

It  rained  very  hard  all  the  day;  I  was  thoroughly  soak'd, 
and  by  noon  a  good  deal  tired;  so  I  stopt  at  a  poor  inn, 
where  I  staid  all  night,  beginning  now  to  wish  that  I  had 
never  left  home.  I  cut  so  miserable  a  figure,  too,  that  I 
found,  by  the  questions  ask'd  me,  I  was  suspected  to  be 
some  runaway  servant,  and  in  danger  of  being  taken  up 
on  that  suspicion.  However,  I  proceeded  the  next  day, 
and  got  in  the  evening  to  an  inn,  within  eight  or  ten  miles 
of  Burlington,  kept  by  one  Dr.  Brown.     He  entered  into 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  25 

conversation  with  me  while  I  took  some  refreshment,  and, 
finding  I  had  read  a  little,  became  \^ery  sociable  and  friendly. 
Our  acquaintance  continu'd  as  long  as  he  liv'd.  He  had 
been,  I  imagine,  an  itinerant  dootor,'  for  there  was  no  town 
in  England,  or  country  in  Europe,  of  which  he  could  not  give 
a  very  particular  account.  He  had  some  letters,  and  was  in- 
genious, but  much  of  an  unbeliever,  and  wickedly  undertook, 
some  years  after,  to  travestie  the  Bible  in  doggrel  verse,  as 
Cotton  had  done  Virgil.  By  this  means  he  set  many  of  the 
facts  in  a  very  ridiculous  light,  and  might  have  hurt  weak 
minds  if  his  work  had  been  published;   but  it  never  was. 

At  his  house  I  lay  that  night,  and  the  next  morning 
reach'd  Burlington,  but  had  the  mortification  to  find  that 
the  regular  boats  were  gone  a  little  before  my  coming,  and 
no  other  expected  to  go  before  Tuesday,  this  being  Satur- 
day; wherefore  I  returned  to  an  old  woman  in  the  town, 
of  whom  I  had  bought  gingerbread  to  eat  on  the  water,  and 
ask'd  her  advice.  She  invited  me  to  lodge  at  her  house 
till  a  passage  by  water  should  offer;  and  being  tired  with 
my  foot  travelling,  I  accepted  the  invitation.  She  under- 
standing I  was  a  printer,  would  have  had  me  stay  at  that 
town  and  follow  my  business,  being  ignorant  of  the  stock 
necessary  to  begin  with.  She  was  very  hospitable,  gave 
me  a  dinner  of  ox-cheek  with  great  good  will,  accepting 
only  a  pot  of  ale  in  return;  and  I  thought  myself  fixed  till 
Tuesday  should  come.  However,  walking  in  the  evening  by 
the  side  of  the  river,  a  boat  came  by,  which  I  found  was 
going  towards  Philadelphia,  with  several  people  in  her. 
They  took  me  in,  and,  as  there  was  no  wind,  we  row'd  all 
the  way;  and  about  midnight,  not  having  yet  seen  the  city, 
some  of  the  company  were  confident  we  must  have  passed 
it,  and  would  row  no  farther;  the  others  knew  not  where 
we  were;  so  we  put  toward  the  shore,  got  into  a  cred^, 
landed  near  an  old  fence,  with  the  rails  of  which  we  made. 
a  fire,  the  night  being  cold,  in  October,  and  there  we 
remained  till  daylight.  Then  one  of  the  company  knew 
the  place  to  be  Cooper's  Creek,  a  little  above  Philadelphia, 
which  we  saw  as  soon  as  we  got  out  of  the  creek,  and 
arriv'd  there  about  eight  or  nine  o'clock  on  the  Sunday 
morning,  and  landed  at  the  Market-street  wharf. 


26  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

I  have  been  the  more  particular  in  this  description  of  my 
journey,   and  shall   be  so  of  my  first  entry  into  that  city, 
that  you  may  in  your  mind  compare  such  unlikely  beginnings 
with  the   figure   I   have   since  made  there.     I   was   in  my 
working  dress,  my  best  cloaths  being  to  come  round  by  sea. 
I   was   dirty   from   my   journey;    my   pockets   were   stuff 'd 
out  with  shirts  and  stockings,  and  I  knew  no  soul  nor  where 
to  look  for  lodging.    I  was  fatigued  with  travelling,  rowing, 
and  want  of  rest,  I  was  very  hungry;    and  my  whole  stock 
of  cash  consisted  of  a  Dutch  dollar,  and  about  a  shilling  in 
copper.     The  latter  I  gave  the  people  of  the  boat  for  my 
passage,  who  at  first  ref us'd  it,  on  account  of  my  rowing ; 
but  I  insisted  on  their  taking  it.  A  man  being  sometimes  more 
generous  when  he  has  but  a  little  money  than  when  he  has 
plenty,  perhaps  thro'  fear  of  being  thought  to  have  but  little. 
Then  I  walked  up  the  street,  gazing  about  till  near  the 
market-house  I  met  a  boy  with  bread.     I  had  made  many 
a  meal  on  bread,  and,  inquiring  where  he  got  it,  I  went 
immediately  to  the  baker's  he  directed  me  to,  in   Second- 
street,  and  ask'd  for  bisket,   intending  such  as  we  had  in 
Boston;    but  they,  it  seems,  were  not  made  in  Philadelphia. 
Then  I  asked  for  a  three-penny  loaf,  and  was  told  they  had 
none  such.     So  not  considering  or  knovv^ing  the  difference 
of  money,  and  the  greater  cheapness  nor  the  names  of  his 
bread,  I  made  him  give  me  three-penny  worth  of  any  sort. 
He  gave  me,  accordingly,  three  great  puffy  rolls.     I  was 
surpriz'd  at  the  quantity,  but  took  it,  and,  having  no  room 
in   my   pockets,   walk'd   off   v/ith    a   roll    under   each    arm, 
and  eating  the  other.    Thus  I  went  up  Market-street  as  far 
as    Fourth-street,    passing  by   the   door   of   Mr.    Read,   my 
future  wife's  father;    when  she,  standing  at  the  door,  saw 
me,  and  thought  I  made,  as  I  certainly  did,  a  most  awkward, 
ridiculous    appearance.      Then    I    turned    and    went    down 
Chestnut-street  and  part  of  Walnut-street,   eating  my  roll 
all   the   way,    and^    coming   round,   found   myself   again   at 
Market-street   wharf,  near   the   boat  I   came   in,   to  which 
X  went  for  a  draught  of  the  river  w^ater;  and,  being  filled 
iwith   one   of   my   rolls,    gave   the   other  two   to   a    woman 
and  her  child  that  came  down  the  river  in  the  boat  with 
us,  and  were  waiting  to  go  farther. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  27 

Thus  refreshed,  I  walked  again  tip  the  street,  which  by 
this  time  had  many  clean-dressed  people  in  it,  who  were  all 
walking  the  same  way.  I  joined  them,  and  thereby  was 
led  into  the  great  meeting-house  of  the  Quakers  near  the 
m.arket.  I  sat  down  among  them,  and,  after  looking  round 
awhile  and  hearing  nothing  said,  being  very  drowsy  thro'  labor 
and  want  of  rest  the  preceding  night,  I  fell  fast  asleep,  and 
continued  so  till  the  meeting  broke  up,  when  one  was  kind 
enough  to  rouse  me.  This  was^  therefore,  the  first  house 
I  was  in,  or  slept  in,  in  Philadelphia. 

Walking  down  again  tov/ard  the  river,  and,  looking  in 
the  faces  of  people,  I  met  a  young  Quaker  man,  whose 
countenance  I  lik'd,  and,  accosting  him,  requested  he  would 
tell  me  where  a  stranger  could  get  lodging.  We  were  then 
near  the  sign  of  the  Three  Mariners.  "  Here,"  says  he,  "  is 
one  place  that  entertains  strangers,  but  it  is  not  a  reputable 
house;  if  thee  wilt  walk  with  ihe,  I'll  show  thee  a  better." 
He  brought  me  to  the  Crooked  Billet  in  Water-street.  Here 
I  got  a  dinner;  and,  while  I  was  eating  it,  several  sly 
questions  vv'^ere  asked  me^  as  it  seemed  to  be  suspected  from 
my  youth  and  appearance,  that  I  might  be  some  runaway. 

After  dinner,  my  sleepiness  return'd,  and  being  shown 
to  a  bed,  I  lay  down  without  undressing,  and  slept  till  six 
in  the  evening,  was  call'd  to  supper,  went  to  bed  again 
very  early,  and  slept  soundly  till  next  morning.  Then  I 
made  myself  as  tidy  as  I  could,  and  went  to  Andrew  Brad- 
ford the  printer's.  I  found  in  the  shop  the  old  man  his 
father,  whom  I  had  seen  at  New  York,  and  who,  travelling 
on  horseback,  had  got  to  Philadelphia  before  me.  He  intro- 
duc'd  me  to  his  son,  who  receiv'd  me  civilly,  gave  me  a 
breakfast,  but  told  me  he  did  not  at  present  want  a  hand, 
being  lately  suppli'd  with  one;  but  there  was  another 
printer  in  town,  lately  set  up,  one  Keimer,  Vv^ho,  perhaps, 
might  employ  me;  if  not^  I  should  be  v/elcome  to  lodge 
at  his  house,  and  he  would  give  me  a  little  work  to  do  now 
and  then  till  fuller  business  should  offer. 

The  old  gentleman  said  he  v^^ould  go  with  me  to  the  new 
printer ;  and  when  we  found  him,  "  Neighbor,"  says  Brad- 
ford, "  I  have  brought  to  see  you  a  young  man  of  your 
business;    perhaps  you  may  want  such  a  one."    He  ask'd 


28  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

me  a  £@w  qiiesdons,  pui  a  composing  stiGk  in  my  hand  to 
see  how  I  woxk'd,  and  t-tmn  said  he  would  empl<?7  me  soon, 
though  he  had  just  then  nothing  for  me  to  do;  and,  taking 
old  Bradford,  whom  he  bati  never  seen  before,  to  be  one 
of  the  town's  people  that  had  a  good  will  for  him,  enter'd 
into  a  conversation  on  his  present  undertaking  and  prospects ; 
while  Bradford,  not  discovering  that  he  was  the  other 
printer's  father,  on  Keimer's  salving  he  expected  soon  to  get 
the  greatest  part  of  the  business  into  his  own  hands,  drew 
him  on  by  artful  questions,  and  starting  little  doubts,  to 
explain  all  his  views,  what  interests  he  reli'd  on,  and  in  what 
manner  he  intended  to  proceed.  I,  who  stood  by  and  heard 
all,  saw  immediately  that  one  of  them  was  a  crafty  old 
sophister,  and  the  other  a  mere  novice.  Bradford  left  me 
with  Keimer,  who  was  greatly  surprised  when  I  told  him 
who  the  old  man  was. 

Keimer's  printing-house,  I  found,  consisted  of  an  old 
shatter'd  press,  and  one  small,  worn-out  font  of  English 
which  he  was  then  using  himself,  composing  an  Elegy  on 
Aquila  Rose,  before  mentioned,  an  ingenious  young  man,  of 
excellent  character,  much  respected  in  the  town,  clerk  of 
the  Assembly,  and  a  pretty  poet.  Keimer  made  verses  too, 
but  very  indifferently.  He  could  not  be  said  to  write  them, 
for  his  manner  was  to  compose  them  in  the  types  directly  out 
of  his  head.  So  there  being  no  copy,  but  one  pair  of  cases, 
and  the  Elegy  likely  to  require  all  the  letter,  no  one  could 
help  him.  I  endeavored  to  put  his  press  (which  he  had  not 
yet  us'd,  and  of  which  he  understood  nothing)  into  order  fit 
to  be  work'd  with ;  and,  promising  to  come  and  print  off  his 
Elegy  as  soon  as  he  should  have  got  it  ready,  I  return'd  to 
Bradford's,  who  gave  me  a  little  job  to  do  for  the  present, 
and  there  I  lodged  and  dieted.  A  few  days  after,  Keimer 
sent  for  me  to  print  oft'  the  Elegy.  And  now  he  had  got 
another  pair  of  cases,  and  a  pamphlet  to  reprint,  on  which 
he  set  me  to  work. 

These  two  printers  I  found  poorly  qualified  for  their  busi- 
ness. Bradford  had  not  been  bred  to  it,  and  was  very 
illiterate;  and  Keimer,  tho'  som.ething  of  a  scholar,  was  a 
"mere  compositor,  knov/ing  nothing  of  presswork.  He  had 
been   one   of   the   French   prophets,   and   could   act   their 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  29 

enthusiastic  agitations.  At  this  time  he  did  not  profess  any 
particular  religion,  hut  something  of  all  on  occasion;  was 
very  ignorant  of  the  world,  and  had,  as  I  afterward  found, 
a  good  deal  of  the  knave  in  his  composition.  He  did  not  like 
my  lodging  at  Bradford's  while  I  work'd  with  him.  He  had 
a  house,  indeed,  but  without  furniture,  s.o  he  could  not  lodge 
me;  but  he  got  me  a  lodging  at  Mr.  Read's,  before  men- 
tioned, who  w^as  the  owner  of  his  house;  and,  my  chest  and 
clothes  being  come  by  this  time,  I  made  rather  a  more 
respectable  appearance  in  the  eyes  of  Miss  Read  than  I  had 
done  when  she  first  happen'd  to  see  me  eating  my  roll  in  the 
street. 

I  began  now  to  have  some  acquaintance  among  the  young 
people  of  the  town,  that  were  lovers  of  reading,  with  whom 
I  spent  my  evenings  very  pleasantly;  and  gaining  money 
by  my  industry  and  frugality,  I  lived  very  agreeably,  for- 
getting Boston  as  much  as  I  could,  and  not  desiring  that 
any  there  should  know  where  I  resided,  except  my  friend 
Collins,  who  was  in  my  secret,  and  kept  it  when  I  wrote  to 
him.  At  length,  an  incident  happened  that  sent  me  back 
again  much  sooner  than  I  had  intended.  I  had  a  brother- 
in-law,  Robert  Holmes,  master  of  a  sloop  that  traded  between 
Boston  and  Delaware.  He  being  at  Newcastle,  forty  miles 
below  Philadelphia,  heard  there  of  rne,  and  wrote  me  a  letter 
mentioning  the  concern  of  my  friends  in  Boston  at  my 
abrupt  departure,  assuring  me  of  their  good  will  to  me, 
and  that  every  thing  would  be  accommodated  to  my  mind 
if  I  would  return,  to  which  he  exhorted  me  very  earnestly. 
I  wrote  an  answer  to  his  letter,  thank'd  him  for  his  advice, 
but  stated  my  reasons  for  quitting  Boston  fully  and  in  such 
a  light  as  to  convince  him  I  was  not  so  wrong  as  he  had 
apprehended. 

Sir  William  Keith,  governor  of  the  province,  was  then  at 
Newcastle,  and  Captain  Holmes,  happening  to  be  in  com- 
pany with  him  when  my  letter  came  to  hand,  spoke  to  him 
of  me,  and  show'd  him  the  letter.  The  governor  read  it, 
and  seem'd  surpris'd  when  he  was  told  my  age.  He  said 
I  appeard  a  young  man  of  promising  parts,  and  therefore 
should  be  encouraged;  the  printers  at  Philadelphia  wer^ 
•wretched  ones;  and,  if  I  would  set  up  thera^  he  made  no 


30  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

doubt  I  should  succeed;  for  his  part,  he  would  procure  me 
the  public  business,  and  do  me  every  other  service  in  his 
power.  This  my  brother-in-lav/  afterwards  told  me  in  Bos- 
ton, but  I  knew  as  yet  nothing  of  it ;  vv^hen,  one  day,  Keimer 
and  I  being  at  work  together  near  the  window,  we  saw  the 
governor  and  another  gentleman  (which  proved  to  be 
Colonel  French,  of  Newcastle),  finely  dress'd,  come  directly 
across  the  street  to  our  house,  and  heard  them  at  the  door. 

Keimer  ran  down  immediately,  thinking  it  a  visit  to  him; 
but  the  governor  inquir'd  for  me,  came  up,  and  with  a 
condescension  of  politeness  I  had  been  quite  imus'd  to,  made 
me  many  compliments,  desired  to  be  acquainted  with  me, 
blam'd  me  kindly  for  not  having  made  myself  known  to 
him  when  I  first  cam.e  to  the  place,  and  would  have  me 
away  with  him  to  the  tavern,  where  he  was  going  with 
Colonel  French  to  taste,  as  he  said,  some  excellent  Madeira. 
I  was  not  a  little  surprised,  and  Keimer  star'd  like  a  pig 
poison'd.  I  vv^ent,  however,  with  the  governor  and  Colonel 
French  to  a  tavern,  at  the  corner  of  Third-street,  and  over 
the  Madeira  he  propos'd  my  setting  up  my  business,  laid 
before  me  the  probabilities  of  success,  and  both  he  and 
Colonel  French  assur'd  me  I  should  have  their  interest  and 
influence  in  procuring  the  public  business  of  both  govern- 
ments. On  my  doubting  whether  my  father  would  assist 
me  in  it.  Sir  William  said  he  would  give  me  a  letter  to  him, 
in  which  he  would  state  the  advantages,  and  he  did  not 
doubt  of  prevailing  with  him.  So  it  was  concluded  I  should 
return  to  Boston  in  the  first  vessel,  with  the  governor's 
letter  recommending  m.e  to  my  father.  In  the  mean  time 
the  intention  was  to  be  kept  a  secret,  and  I  went  on  working 
with  Keimer  as  usual,  the  governor  sending  for  me  now 
and  then  to  dine  with  him,  a  very  great  honor  I  thought  it, 
and  conversing  with  me  in  the  most  affable,  familiar,  and 
friendly  manner  imaginable. 

About  the  end  of  April,  1724,  a  little  vessel  offer'd  for 
Boston.  I  took  leave  of  Keimer  as  going  to  see  my  friends. 
The  governor  gave  me  an  ample  letter,  saying  many  flatter- 
ing things  of  me  to  my  father,  and  strongly  recommending 
the  project  of  my  setting  up  at  Philadelphia  as  a  thing  that 
must  m.ake  my   fortune.     We   struck  on  a  shoal   in  going 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  31 

down  the  bay,  and  sprung  a  leak ;  we  had  a  blustering  time 
at  sea,  and  were  oblig'd  to  pump  almost  continually,  at 
which  I  took  my  turn.  We  arriv'd  safe,  however,  at  Boston 
in  about  a  fortnight.  I  had  been  absent  seven  months,  and 
my  friends  had  heard  nothing  of  me;  for  my  br.  Holmes 
was  not  yd  return'd^  and  had  not  written  about  me.  My 
unexpected  appearance  surpriz'd  the  family;  all  were,  how- 
ever, very  glad  to  see  me,  and  made  me  welcome,  except  my 
brother.  I  went  to  see  him  at  his  printing-house.  I  was 
better  dress'd  than  ever  while  in  his  service,  having  a  gen- 
teel nev/  suit  from  head  to  foot,  a  watch,  and  my  pockets 
lin'd  with  near  five  pounds  sterling  in  silver.  He  receiv'd 
me  not  very  frankly,  look'd  me  all  over,  and  turn'd  to  his 
work  again. 

The  journeymen  were  inquisitive  where  I  had  been,  what 
sort  of  a  country  it  was,  and  how  I  lik'd  it.  I  prais'4  it 
much,  the  happy  life  I  led  in  it,  expressing  strongly  my 
intention  of  returning  to  it;  and,  one  of  them  asking  what 
kind  of  mioney  we  had  there,  I  produc'd  a  handful  of  silver, 
and  spread  it  before  them,  which  was  a  kind  of  raree-show 
they  iad  not  been  us'd  to,  paper  being  the  money  o£  Boston. 
Then  1  took  an  opportunity  of  letting  them  see  my  watch ; 
and,  lastly  (my  brother  still  grum  and  sullen),  I  gave  them 
a  piece  of  eight  to  drink,  and  took  my  leave.  This  visit  of 
mine  offended  him  extreamly;  for,  when  my  mother  some 
time  after  spoke  to  him,  of  a  reconciliation,  and  of  her  wishes! 
to  see  us  on  good  terms  together,  and  that  we  might  live 
for  the  future  as  brothers,  he  said  I  had  insulted  him  in 
such  a  manner  before  his  people  that  he  could  never  forget 
or  forgive  it.    In  this,  however,  he  was  mistaken. 

My  father  received  the  governor's  letter  with  some 
apparent  surprise,  but  said  little  of  it  to  me  for  some  days, 
vv^hen  Capt.  Holmes  returning  he  showed  it  to  him,  ask'd' 
him  if  he  knew  Keith,  and  what  kind  of  man  he  was ;  add- 
ing his  opinion  that  he  must  be  of  small  discretion  to  think 
of  setting  a  boy  up  in  business  who  v/anted  yet  three  years 
of  being  at  man's  estate.  Holmes  said  what  he  could  in 
favor  of  the  project,  but  my  father  was  clear  in  the  impro- 
priety of  it,  and  at  last  gave  a  flat  denial  to  it.  Then  he 
wrote  a  civil  letter  to  Sir  Williamj  thanking  him  for  th^ 


32  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

patronage  he  had  so  kindly  offered  me,  but  declining  to 
assist  me  as  yet  in  setting  up,  I  being,  in  his  opinion,  too 
young  to  be  trusted  with  the  management  of  a  business  so 
important,  and  <  for  which  the  preparation  must  be  so 
expensive. 

My  friend  and  companion  Collins,  who  was  a  clerk  in  the 
post-office,  pleas'd  with  the  account  I  gave  him  of  my  new 
country,  determined  to  go  thither  also;  and,  while  I  waited 
for  my  father's  determination,  he  set  out  before  me  by  land 
to  Rhode  Island,  leaving  his  books,  which  were  a  pretty 
collection  of  mathematicks  and  natural  philosophy,  to  come 
with  mine  and  me  to  New  York,  where  he  prcpos'd  to  wait 
for  me. 

My  father,  tho'  he  did  not  approve  Sir  William's  proposi- 
tion, was  yet  pleas'd  that  I  had  been  able  to  obtain  so 
advantageous  a  character  from  a  person  of  such  note  where 
I  had  resided,  and  that  I  had  been  so  industrious  and  careful 
as  to  equip  myself  so  handsom.ely  in  so  short  a  time;  there- 
fore, seeing  no  prospect  of  an  accommodation  between  my 
brother  and  me,  he  gave  his  consent  to  my  returning  again 
to  Philadelphia,  advis'd  me  to  behave  respectfully  to  the 
people  there,  endeavor  to  obtain  the  general  esteem,  and 
avoid  lampooning  and  libeling,  to  which  he  thought  I  had 
too  much  inclination;  telling  me,  that  by  steady  industry 
and  a  prudent  parsimony  I  might  save  enough  by  the  time 
I  v/as  one-and-twenty  to  set  me  up ;  and  that,  if  I  came  near 
the  matter,  he  would  help  me  out  with  the  rest.  This  was 
all  I  could  obtain,  except  some  small  gifts  as  tokens  of  his 
and  my  mother's  love,  when  I  embark'd  again  for  New 
(York,  now  with  their  approbation  and  their  blessing. 

The  sloop  putting  in  at  Newport,  Rhode  Island,  I  visited 
my  brother  John,  who  had  been  m.arried  and  settled  there 
some  years.  He  received  me  very  affectionately,  for  he 
always  lov'd  me.  A  friend  of  his,  one  Vernon,  having  some 
money  due  to  him  in  Pensilvania,  about  thirty-five  pounds 
currency,  desired  I  would  receive  it  for  him,  and  keep  it 
till  I  had  his  directions  what  to  remit  it  in.  Accordingly,  he 
gave  me  an  order.  This  afterwards  occasion'd  me  a  good 
deal  of  uneasiness. 

At  Newport  we  took  in  a  number  of  passengers  for  New 

HC3— Vol  1  ^ 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  33 

York,  among  which  were  two  young  women,  companions, 
and  a  grave,  sensible,  matron-like  Quaker  woman,  with  her 
attendants.  I  had  shown  an  obliging  readiness  to  do  her 
some  little  services,  which  impress'd  her  I  suppose  with  a 
degree  of  good  w^ll  toward  me;  therefore,  when  she  saw  a 
daily  growing  familiarity  between  me  and  the  two  young 
women,  which  they  appear'd  to  encourage,  she  took  me  aside, 
and  said :  "  Young  man,  I  am  concern'd  for  thee,  as  thou 
has  no  friend  with  thee,  and  seems  not  to  know  much  of 
the  world,  or  of  the  snares  youth  is  expos'd  to ;  depend  upon 
it,  those  are  very  bad  women;  I  can  see  it  in  all  their 
actions;  and  if  thee  art  not  upon  thy  guard,  they  will  draw 
thee  into  some  danger;  they  are  strangers  to  thee,  and  I 
advise  thee,  in  a  friendly  concern  for  thy  welfare,  to  have 
no  acquaintance  with  them."  As  I  seem'd  at  first  not  to 
think  so  ill  of  them  as  she  did,  she  mentioned  som.e  things 
she  had  observ'd  and  heard  that  had  escap'd  my  notice,  but 
now  convinc'd  me  she  was  right.  I  thank'd  her  for  her 
kind  advice,  and  promis'd  to  follow  it.  When  we  arriv'd  at 
New  York,  they  told  me  vv^here  they  liv'd,  and  invited  me 
to  come  and  see  them;  but  I  avoided  it,  and  it  was  v/ell  I 
did;  for  the  next  day  the  captain  miss'd  a  silver  spoon  and 
some  other  things,  that  had  been  taken  out  of  his  cabbin, 
and,  knowing  that  these  were  a  couple  of  strumpets,  he  got 
a  warrant  to  search  their  lodgings,  found  the  stolen  goods, 
and  had  the  thieves  punish'd.  So,  tho'  we  had  escap'd  a 
sunken  rock,  which  we  scrap'd  upon  in  the  passage,  I 
thought  this  escape  of  rather  more  im-portance  to  me. 

At  New  York  I  found  my  friend  Collins,  who  had  arriv'd 
there'  some  time  before  me.  We  had  been  intimate  from 
children,  and  had  read  the  same  books  together ;  but  he  had 
the  advantage  of  more  time  for  reading  and  studying,  and  a 
wonderful  genius  for  mathematical  learning,  in  which  he 
far  outstript  me.  While  I  liv'd  in  Boston  most  of  my  hours 
of  leisure  for  conversation  were  spent  with  him,  and  he 
continu'd  a  sober  as  well  as  an  industrious  lad;  was  much 
respected  for  his  learning  by  several  of  the  clergy  and  other 
gentlemen,  and  seemed  to  promise  m.aking  a  good  figure  in 
life.  But,  during  my  absence,  he  had  acquir'd  a  habit  of 
sotting  with  brandy;    and  I  found  by  his  own  account,  and 

^  HC-— Vol.  1 


34  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

what  I  heard  from  others,  that  he  had  been  "drunk  every- 
day since  his  arrival  at  Nev/  York,  and  behav'd  very  oddly. 
He  had  gam'd,  too,  and  lost  his  money,  so  that  I  was  oblig'd 
to  discharge  his  lodgings,  and  defray  his  expenses  to  and  at 
Philadelphia,  which  prov'd  extremely  inconvenient  to  me. 

The  then  governor  of  New  York,  Burnet  (son  of  Bishop 
Burnet),  hearing  from  the  captain  that  a  young  man,  one  of 
his  passengers,  had  a  great  many  books,  desir'd  he  would 
bring  me  to  see  him.  I  waited  upon  him  accordingly,  and 
should  have  taken  Collins  with  me  but  that  he  was  not  sober. 
The  gov'r.  treated  me  with  great  civility,  show'd  me  his 
library,  which  was  a  very  large  one,  and  we  had  a  good 
deal  of  conversation  about  books  and  authors.  This  was  the 
second  governor  who  had  done  me  the  honor  to  take  notice 
of  me;    which,  to  a  poor  boy  like  me,  was  very  pleasing. 

We  proceeded  to  Philadelphia.  I  received  on  the  way 
Vernon's  money,  without  which  we  could  hardly  have 
finish'd  our  journey.  Collins  wished  to  be  employ'd  in  some 
counting-house;  but,  whether  they  discover'd  his  dramming 
by  his  breath,  or  by  his  behaviour,  tho'  he  had  some  recom- 
mendations, he  met  with  no  success  in  any  application,  and 
contlnu'd  lodging  and  boarding  at  the  same  house  with  me, 
and  at  my  expense,  ICnowing  I  had  that  money  of  Vernon's, 
he  was  continually  borrowing  of  me,  still  promising  repay- 
ment as  soon  as  he  should  be  in  business.  At  length  he  had 
got  so  much  of  it  that  I  was  distress'd  to  think  what  I  should 
do  in  case  of  being  call'd  on  to  remit  it. 

His  drinking  continued,  about  which  we  sometimes  quar« 
rell'd;  for,  when  a  little  intoxicated,  he  was  very  fractious. 
Once,  in  a  boat  on  the  Delaware  with  some  other  young 
men,  he  refused  to  row  in  his  turn.  "  I  will  be  row'd  home," 
says  he.  "  We  will  not  row  you,"  says  I.  *■  You  must,  or 
stay  all  night  on  the  water,"  says  he,  "just  as  you  please." 
The  others  said,  "Let  us  row;  what  signifies  it?"  But,  my 
mind  being  soured  with  his  other  conduct,  I  continu'd  to 
refuse.  So  he  swore  he  would  make  me  row,  or  throw  me 
overboard;  and  coming  along,  stepping  on  the  thwarts, 
toward  me,  when  he  came  up  and  struck  at  me,  I  clapped 
my  hand  under  his  crutch,  and,  rising,  pitched  him  head- 
foremost into  the  river.    I  knew  he  was  a  good  swimmer, 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  35 

and  so  was  under  little  concern  about  him;  but  before  he 
could  get  round  to  lay  hold  of  the  boat,  we  had  with  a  few 
strokes  puU'd  her  out  of  his  reach;  and  ever  when  he  drew 
near  the  boat,  we  ask'd  if  he  would  row,  striking  a  few 
strokes  to  slide  her  away  from  him.  He  was  ready  to  die 
with  vexation,  and  obstinately  would  not  promise  to  row. 
However,  seeing  him  at  last  beginning  to  tire,  we  lifted  him 
in  and  brought  him  home  dripping  wet  in  the  evening.  We 
hardly  exchanged  a  civil  word  afterwards^  and  a  West  India 
captain,  who  had  a  commission  to  procure  a  tutor  for  the 
sons  of  a  gentleman  at  Barbadoes,  happening  to  meet  with 
him,  agreed  to  carry  him  thither.  He  left  me  then,  promising 
to  remit  me  the  first  money  he  should  receive  in  order  to 
discharge  the  debt ;   but  I  never  heard  of  him  after. 

The  breaking  into  this  money  of  Vernon's  was  one  of  the 
first  great  errata  of  my  life ;  and  this  affair  show'd  that  my 
father  was  not  much  out  in  his  judgment  when  he  suppos'd 
m.e  too  young  to  manage  business  of  importance.  But  Sir 
William,  on  reading  his  letter,  said  he  was  too  prudent. 
There  was  great  difference  in  persons;  and  discretion  did 
not  always  accompany  years,  nor  was  youth  always  ;\vithout 
it.  ''  And  since  he  will  not  set  you  up,"  says  he,  "  I  will 
do  it  myself.  Give  me  an  inventory  of  the  things  neces- 
sary to  be  had  from  England,  and  I  will  send  for  them. 
You  shall  repay  me  when  you  are  able;  I  am  resolv'd  to 
have  a  good  printer  here,  and  I  am  sure  you  must  succeed." 
This  was  spoken  with  such  an  appearance  of  cordiality,  that 
I  had  not  the  least  doubt  of  his  meaning  what  he  said,  I 
had  hitherto  kept  the  proposition  of  my  setting  up,  a  secret 
in  Philadelphia,  and  I  still  kept  it.  Had  it  been  known  that 
I  depended  on  the  governor,  probably  some  friend,  that  knew 
him  better,  would  have  advis'd  me  not  to  rely  on  him,  as  I 
afterwards  heard  it  as  his  known  character  to  be  liberal  of 
promises  which  he  never  meant  to  keep.  Yet,  unsolicited  as 
he  was  by  me,  how  could  I  think  his  generous  offers  insin- 
cere?   I  believ'd  him  one  of  the  best  m.en  in  the  world. 

I  presented  him  an  inventory  of  a  little  print'g-house, 
amounting  by  my  computation  to  about  one  hundred  pounds 
sterling.  He  lik'd  it,  but  ask'd  me  if  my  being  on  the  spot 
in  England  to  chuse  the  types,  and  see  that  every  thing  was 


36  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

good  of  the  kind,  might  not  be  of  some  advantage.  "  Then," 
says  he,  "  when  there,  you  may  make  acquaintances,  and 
establish  correspondences  in  the  bookselling  and  stationery 
way."  I  agreed  that  this  might  be  advantageous.  "  Then," 
says  he,  "  get  yourself  ready  to  go  with  Annis ;"  which  was 
the  annual  ship,  and  the  only  one  at  that  time  usually  pass- 
ing between  London  and  Philadelphia.  But  it  would  be 
some  months  before  Annis  sail'd,  so  I  continu'd  working 
with  Keimer,  fretting  about  the  money  Collins  had  got  from 
me,  and  in  daily  apprehensions  of  being  call'd  upon  by  Ver- 
non, which,  however,  did  not  happen  for  some  years  after. 

I  believe  I  have  omitted  mentioning  that,  in  my  first 
voyage  from  Boston,  being  becalm'd  off  Block  Island,  our 
people  set  about  catching  cod,  and  hauled  up  a  great  many. 
Hitherto  I  had  stuck  to  my  resolution  of  not  eating  animal 
food,  and  on  this  occasion  consider'd,  with  my  master 
Tryon,  the  taking  every  fish  as  a  kind  of  tmprovoked  mur- 
der, since  none  of  them  had,  or  ever  could  do  us  any  injury 
that  might  justify  the  slaughter.  All  this  seemed  very  rea- 
sonable. But  I  had  formerly  been  a  great  lover  of  fish,  and, 
when  this  came  hot  out  of  the  frying-pan,  it  smelt  admirably 
well.  I  balanc'd  some  time  between  principle  and  inclina- 
tion, till  I  recollected  that,  when  the  fish  were  opened,  I  saw 
smaller  fish  taken  out  of  their  stomachs;  then  thought  I, 
"  If  you  eat  one  another,  I  don't  see  why  we  mayn't  eat  you." 
So  I  din'd  upon  cod  very  heartily,  and  continued  to  eat  with 
other  people,  returning  only  now  and  then  occasionally  to  a 
vegetable  diet.  So  convenient  a  thing  it  is  to  be  a  reason-; 
able  creature,  since  it  enables  one  to  find  or  make  a  reason 
for  everything  one  has  a  mind  to  do. 

Keimer  and  I  liv'd  on  a  pretty  good  familiar  footing,  an(j 
agreed  tolerably  well,  for  he  suspected  nothing  of  my  setting 
up.  He  retained  a  great  deal  of  his  old  enthusiasms  and 
lov'd  argumentation.  We  therefore  had  many  disputations. 
I  used  to  work  him  so  with  my  Socratic  method,  and  had 
trepann'd  him  so  often  by  questions  apparently  so  distant 
from  any  point  we  had  in  hand,  and  yet  by  degrees  lead 
to  the  point,  and  brought  him  into  difficulties  and  contra- 
dictions, that  at  last  he  grew  ridiculously  cautious,  and 
would  hardly  answer  me  the  most  common  question,  without 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  37 

asking  first,  ^  What  do  you  intend  to  infer  from  that?" 
However,  it  gave  him  so  high  an  opinion  of  my  abilities  in 
the  confuting  way,  that  he  seriously  proposed  my  being  his 
colleague  in  a  project  he  had  of  setting  up  a  new  sect. 
He  was  to  preach  the  doctrines,  and  I  was  to  confound  all 
opponents.  When  he  came  to  explain  with  me  upon  the 
doctrines,  I  found  several  conundrums  which  I  objected  to, 
unless  I  might  have  my  way  a  little  too,  and  introduce  some 
of  mine. 

Keimer  wore  his  beard  at  full  length,  because  somewhere 
in  the  Mosaic  law  it  is  said,  "  Thou  shdlt  not  mar  the  corners 
of  thy  heard."  He  likewise  kept  the  Seventh  day,  Sabbath; 
and  these  two  points  were  essentials  with  him.  I  dislik'd 
both ;  but  agreed  to  admit  them  upon  condition  of  his  adopt- 
ing the  doctrine  of  using  no  animal  food.  "  I  doubt,"  said 
he,  "  my  constitution  will  not  bear  that."  I  assur'd  him  it 
would,  and  that  he  would  be  the  better  for  it.  He  was 
usually  a  great  glutton,  and  I  promised  myself  some  diversion 
in  half  starving  him.  He  agreed  to  try  the  practice,  if  I 
would  keep  him  company.  I  did  so,  and  we  held  it  for 
three  months.  We  had  our  victuals  dress'd,  and  brought 
to  us  regularly  by  a  woman  in  the  neighborhood,  who  had 
from  me  a  list  of  forty  dishes  to  be  prepar'd  for  us  at  dif- 
ferent times,  in  all  which  there  was  neither  fish,  flesh,  nor 
fowl,  and  the  whim  suited  me  the  better  at  this  time  from 
the  cheapness  of  it,  not  costing  us  above  eighteenpence 
sterling  each  per  week.  I  have  since  kept  several  Lents 
most  strictly,  leaving  the  common  diet  for  that,  and  that 
for  the  common,  abruptly,  without  the  least  inconvenience, 
so  that  I  think  there  is  little  in  the  advice  of  making  those 
changes  by  easy  gradations.  I  went  on  pleasantly,  but  poor 
Keimer  suffered  grievously,  tired  of  the  project,  long'd  for 
the  flesh-pots  of  Egypt,  and  order'd  a  roast  pig.  He  invited 
me  and  two  women  friends  to  dine  with  him;  but,  it  being 
brought  too  soon  upon  table,  he  could  not  resist  the  tempta- 
tion, and  ate  the  whole  before  we  came. 

I  had  made  some  courtship  during  this  time  to  Miss  Read. 
I  had  a  great  respect  and  affection  for  her,  and  had  some 
reason  to  believe  she  had  the  same  for  me ;  but,  as  I  was 
about  to  take  a  long  voyage,  and  we  were  both  very  young. 


38  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

only  a  little  above  eighteen,  it  was  thought  most  prudent 
by  her  mother  to  prevent  our  going  too  far  at  present,  as 
a  marriage,  if  it  was  to  take  place,  Vv^ould  be  more  con- 
venient after  my  return,  when  I  should  be,  as  I  expected, 
set  up  in  my  business.  Perhaps,  too,  she  thought  my  ex- 
pectations not  so  well  founded  as  I  imagined  them  to  be. 

My  chief  acquaintances  at  this  time  were  Charles  Osborne, 
Joseph  Watson,  and  James  Ralph,  all  lovers  of  reading. 
The  two  first  were  clerks  to  an  eminent  scrivener  or  con- 
veyancer in  the  town,  Charles  Brogden;  the  other  was 
clerk  to  a  merchant.  Watson  was  a  pious,  sensible  young 
man,  of  great  integrity;  the  others  rather  more  lax  in  their 
principles  of  religion,  particularly  Ralph,  who,  as  well  as 
Collins,  had  been  imsettled  by  me,  for  which  they  both  made 
me  suffer.  Osborne  was  sensible,  candid,  frank;  sincere 
and  affectionate  to  his  friends;  but,  in  literary  matters, 
too  fond  of  criticising.  Ralph  was  ingenious,  genteel  in 
his  manners,  and  extremely  eloquent;  I  think  I  never  knew 
a  prettier  talker.  Both  of  them  great  admirers  of  poetry, 
and  began  to  try  their  hands  in  little  pieces.  Many  pleasant 
walks  we  four  had  together  on  Sundays  into  the  woods,  near 
Schuylkill,  where  we  read  to  one  another,  and  conferr'd  on 
what  we  read. 

Ralph  was  inclin'd  to  pursue  the  study  of  poetry,  not 
doubting  but  he  might  become  eminent  in  it,  and  make  his 
fortune  by  it,  alleging  that  the  best  poets  must,  when  they 
first  began  to  write,  make  as  many  faults  as  he  did.  Osborne 
dissuaded  him,  assur'd  him  he  had  no  genius  for  poetry,  and 
advis'd  him  to  think  of  nothing  beyond  the  business  he 
was  bred  to;  that,  in  the  mercantile  way,  tho'  he  had  no 
stock,  he  might,  by  his  diligence  and  punctuality,  recom- 
mend himself  to  employment  as  a  factor,  and  in  time 
acquire  wherewith  to  trade  on  his  ov/n  account.  I  approved 
the  amusing  one's  self  with  poetry  now  and  then,  so  far 
as  to  improve  one's  language,  but  no  farther. 

On  this  it  was  propos'd  that  we  should  each  of  us,  at 
our  next  meeting,  produce  a  piece  of  our  own  composing, 
in  order  to  improve  by  our  mutual  observations,  criticisms, 
and  corrections.  As  language  and  expression  were  what 
we  had  in  view,  we  excluded  all  considerations  of  invention 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  39 

by  agreeing  that  the  task  should  be  a  version  of  the  eigh- 
teenth Psalm,  which  describes  the  descent  of  a  Deity. 
When  the  time  of  our  meeting  drew  nigh,  Ralph  called 
on  me  first,  and  let  me  know  his  piece  was  ready.  I  told 
him  I  had  been  busy,  and,  having  little  inclination,  had 
done  nothing.  He  then  show'd  me  his  piece  for  my  opinion, 
and  I  much  approv'd  it,  as  it  appear'd  to  me  to  have  great 
merit.  "  Now,"  sa37s  he,  "  Osborne  never  will  allow  the 
least  merit  in  any  thing  of  mine,  but  makes  looo  criticisms 
out  of  mere  envy.  He  is  not  so  jealous  of  you;  I  wish, 
therefore,  you  would  take  this  piece,  and  produce  it  as  yours ; 
I  will  pretend  not  to  have  had  time,  and  so  produce  nothing. 
We  shall  then  see  what  he  will  say  to  it."  It  was  agreed, 
and  I  immediately  transcrib'd  it,  that  it  might  appear  in 
my  own  hand. 

We  met;  Watson's  performance  was  read;  there  were 
some  beauties  in  it,  but  many  defects.  Osborne's  was  read; 
it  was  much  better;  Ralph  did  it  justice;  remarked  some 
faults,  but  applauded  the  beauties.  He  himself  had  nothing 
to  produce.  I  was  backward;  seemed  desirous  of  being 
excused ;  had  not  had  sufficient  time  to  correct,  etc. ;  but 
no  excuse  could  be  admitted;  produce  I  must.  It  was  read 
and  repeated;  Watson  and  Osborne  gave  up  the  contest, 
and  join'd  in  applauding  it.  Ralph  only  made  some  criti- 
cisms, and  propos'd  some  amendments;  but  I  defended  my 
text.  Osborne  was  against  Ralph,  and  told  him  he  was  no 
better  a  critic  than  poet,  so  he  dropt  the  argument.  As  they 
two  went  home  together,  Osborne  expressed  himself  still 
more  strongly  in  favor  of  what  he  thought  my  production; 
having  restrain'd  himself  before,  as  he  said,  lest  I  should 
think  it  flattery.  "  But  who  would  have  imiagin'd,"  said  he, 
"  that  Franklin  had  been  capable  of  such  a  performance ; 
such  painting,  such  force,  such  fire !  He  has  even  improv'd 
the  original.  In  his  common  conversation  he  seems  to 
have  no  choice  of  words;  he  hesitates  and  blunders;  and 
yet,  good  God !  how  he  writes ! "  When  we  next  met, 
Ralph  discovered  the  trick  we  had  plaid  him,  and  Osborne 
was  a  little  laught  at. 

This  transaction  fixed  Ralph  in  his  resolution  of  becoming 
a  poet.     I  did  all  I  could  to  dissuade  him  from  it,  but  he 


40  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

continued  scribbling  verses  till  Pope  cured  him.  He  became, 
however,  a  pretty  good  prose  writer.  More  of  him  here- 
after.  But,  as  I  may  not  have  occasion  again  to  mention 
the  other  two,  I  shall  just  remark  here,  that  Watson  died 
in  my  arms  a  few  years  after,  much  lamented,  being 
the  best  of  our  set.  Osborne  went  to  the  West  Indies, 
where  he  became  an  eminent  lawyer  and  made  money, 
but  died  young.  He  and  I  had  made  a  serious  agree- 
ment, that  the  one  who  happen'd  first  to  die  should,  if 
possible,  make  a  friendly  visit  to  the  other,  and  acquaint 
him  how  he  found  things  in  that  separate  state.  But  he 
never  fulfill'd  his  promise. 

The  governor,  seeming  to  like  my  company,  had  m.e  fre- 
quently to  his  house,  and  his  setting  mie  up  was  always 
mention'd  as  a  fixed  thing.  I  was  to  take  with  me  letters 
recommendatory  to  a  number  of  his  friends,  besides  the 
letter  of  credit  to  furnish  me  with  the  necessary  money  for 
purchasing  the  press  and  types,  paper,  etc.  For  these  letters 
I  was  appointed  to  call  at  different  times,  when  they  were 
to  be  ready,  but  a  future  time  was  still  named.  Thus 
he  went  on  till  the  ship,  whose  departure  too  had  been 
several  times  postponed,  was  on  the  point  of  sailing.  Then, 
when  I  caird  to  take  my  leave  and  receive  the  letters,  his 
secretary.  Dr.  Bard,  came  out  to  me  and  said  the  governor 
was  extremely  busy  in  writing,  but  would  be  down  at  New- 
castle before  the  ship,  and  there  the  letters  would  be  de- 
livered to  me. 

Ralph,  though  married,  and  having  one  child,  had  de- 
termined to  accompany  me  in  this  voyage.  It  was  thought 
he  intended  to  establish  a  correspondence,  and  obtain  goods 
to  sell  on  commission;  but  I  found  afterwards,  that,  thro' 
some  discontent  with  his  wife's  relations,  he  purposed  to 
leave  her  on  their  hands,  and  never  return  again.  Having 
taken  leave  of  my  friends,  and  interchang'd  some  promises 
with  Miss  Read,  I  left  Philadelphia  in  the.  ship,  which 
anchor'd  at  Newcastle.  The  governor  was  there;  but  when 
I  went  to  his  lodging,  the  secretary  came  to  me  from  him 
with  the  civillest  message  in  the  world,  that  he  could  not 
then  see  me,  being  engaged  in  business  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance, but  should  send  the  letters  to  me  on  board,  wish'd 


HIS  AUTOBIOGHAPHY  41 

me  heartily  a  good  voyage  and  a  speedy  return,  etc.  I 
returned  on  board  a  little  puzzled,  but  still  not  doubting. 

Mr.  Andrew  Hamilton,  a  famous  lawyer  of  Philadelphia, 
had  taken  passage  in  the  same  ship  for  himself  and  son, 
and  with  Mr.  Denham,  a  Quaker  merchant,  and  Messrs. 
Onion  and  Russel,  masters  of  an  iron  work  in  Maryland, 
had  engag'd  the  great  cabin ;  so  that  Ralph  and  I  were  forced 
to  take  up  with  a  berth  in  the  steerage,  and  none  on  board 
knowing  us^  were  considered  as  ordinary  persons.  But  Mr. 
Hamilton  and  his  son  (it  was  James,  since  governor) 
return'd  from  Newcastle  to  Philadelphia,  the  father  being 
recall'd  by  a  great  fee  to  plead  for  a  seized  ship;  and,  just 
before  we  saiFd,  Colonel  French  coming  on  board,  and 
showing  me  great  respect,  I  was  more  taken  notice  of,  and, 
with  my  friend  Ralph,  invited  by  the  other  gentlemen  to 
come  into  the  cabin,  there  being  now  room.  Accordingly, 
we  remov'd  thither. 

Understanding  that  Colonel  French  had  brought  on  board 
the  governor's  despatches,  I  ask'd  the  captain  for  those 
letters  that  were  to  be  under  my  care.  He  said  all  were 
put  into  the  bag  together  and  he  could  not  then  come  at 
them;  but,  before  we  landed  in  England,  I  should  have  an 
opportunity  of  picking  them  out ;  so  I  was  satisfied  for  the 
present,  and  we  proceeded  on  our  voyage.  We  had  a 
sociable  company  in  the  cabin,  and  lived  uncommonly  well, 
having  the  addition  of  all  Mr.  Hamilton's  stores,  who  had 
laid  in  plentifully.  In  this  passage  Mr.  Denham  contracted 
a  friendship  for  me  that  continued  during  his  life.  The 
voyage  was  otherwise  not  a  pleasant  one,  as  we  had  a  great 
deal  of  bad  weather. 

When  we  came  into  the  Channel,  the  captain  kept  his 
word  with  me,  and  gave  me  an  opportunity  of  examining 
the  bag  for  the  governor's  letters.  I  found  none  upon  which 
my  name  was  put  as  under  my  care.  I  picked  out  six  or 
seven,  that,  by  the  handwriting,  I  thought  might  be  the 
promised  letters,  especially  as  one  of  them  was  directed  to 
Basket,  the  king's  printer,  and  another  to  some  stationer. 
We  arriv'd  in  London  the  24th  of  December,  1724.  I  waited 
upon  the  stationer,  who  came  first  in  my  way,  delivering 
the  letter  as  from  Governor  Keith.    "I  don't  know  such  a 


42  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

person/'  says  he ;  but,  opening  the  letter,  "  O !  this  is  from 
Riddlesden.  I  have  lately  found  him  to  be  a  compleat  rascal, 
and  I  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  him,  nor  receive  any 
letters  from  him."  So,  putting  the  letter  into  my  hand,  he 
turn'd  on  his  heel  and  left  me  to  serve  some  customer. 
I  was  surprized  to  find  these  were  not  the  governor's  letters  ; 
and,  after  recollecting  and  comparing  circumstances,  I  began 
to  doubt  his  sincerity.  I  found  my  friend  Denham,  and 
opened  the  whole  affair  to  him.  He  let  me  into  Keith's 
character;  told  me  there  was  not  the  least  probability  that 
he  had  written  any  letters  for  me;  that  no  one,  who  knew 
him,  had  the  smallest  dependence  on  him;  and  he  laught  at 
the  notion  of  the  governor's  giving  me  a  letter  of  credit, 
having,  as  he  said,  no  credit  to  give.  On  my  expressing 
some  concern  about  what  I  should  do,  he  advised  me  to 
endeavor'  getting  some  employment  in  the  way  of  my  busi- 
ness. "  Among  the  printers  here,"  said  he,  "  you  will  improve 
yourself,  and  when  you  return  to  America,  you  will  set  up 
to  greater  advantage." 

We  both  of  us  happen'd  to  know,  as  well  as  the  stationer, 
that  Riddlesden,  the  attorney,  was  a  very  knave.  He  had 
half  ruin'd  Miss  Read's  father  by  persuading  him  to  be 
bound  for  him.  By  this  letter  it  appear'd  there  was  a  secret 
scheme  on  foot  to  the  prejudice  of  Hamilton  (suppos'd  to 
be  then  coming  over  with  us)t;  and  that  Keith  was  con- 
cerned in  it  with  Riddlesden.  Denham,  who  was  a  friend 
of  Hamilton's  thought  he  ought  to  be  acquainted  with  it; 
so,  when  he  arriv'd  in  England,  which  was  soon  after, 
partly  from  resentment  and  ill-will  to  Keith  and  Riddlesden, 
and  partly  from  good-will  to  him,  I  waited  on  him,  and 
gave  him  the  letter.  He  thank'd  me  cordially,  the  infor- 
mation being  of  importance  to  him;  and  from  that  time  he 
became  my  friend,  greatly  to  my  advantage  afterwards  on 
many  occasions. 

But  what  shall  we  think  of  a  governor's  playing  such 
pitiful  tricks,  and  imposing  so  grossly  on  a  poor  ignorant 
boy !  It  was  3.  habit  he  had  acquired.  He  wish'd  to  please 
everybody;  and,  having  little  to  give,  he  gave  expectations. 
He  was  otherwise  an  ingenious,  sensible  man,  a  pretty  good 
writer,  and  a  good  governor  for  the  people,  tho'  not  for  his 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  43 

constituents,  the  proprietaries,  whose  instructions  he  some- 
times disregarded.  Several  of  our  best  laws  were  of  his 
planning  and  passed  during  his  administration. 

Ralph  and  I  were  inseparable  com.panions.  "We  took  lodg- 
ings together  in  Little  Britain  at  three  shillings  and  six- 
pence a  week — as  much  as  we  could  then  afford.  He  found 
some  relations,  but  they  were  poor,  and  unable  to  assist  him. 
He  now  let  me  know  his  intentions  of  remaining  in  London, 
and  that  he  never  meant  to  return  to  Philadelphia.  He 
had  brought  no  money  with  him,  the  whole  he  could  muster 
having  been  expended  in  paying  his  passage.  I  had  fifteen 
pistoles ;  so  he  borrowed  occasionally  of  me  to  subsist,  while 
he  was  looking  out  for  business.  He  first  endeavored  to  get 
into  the  playhouse,  believing  himself  qualify'd  for  an  actor ; 
but  Wilkes,  to  v/hom  he  apply'd,  advis'd  him  candidly  not 
to  think  of  that  employment,  as  it  was  impossible  he  should 
succeed  in  it.  Then  he  propos'd  to  Roberts,  a  publisher  in 
Paternoster  Row,  to  write  for  him  a  weekly  paper  like  the 
Spectator,  on  certain  conditions,  which  Roberts  did  not 
approve.  Then  he  endeavored  to  get  employment  as  a 
hackney  writer,  to  copy  for  the  stationers  and  lawyers  about 
the  Temple,  but  could  find  no  vacancy. 

I  immediately  got  into  work  at  Palmer's,  then  a  famous 
printing-house  in  Bartholomew  Close,  and  here  I  continu'd 
near  a  year.  I  w^as  pretty  diligent,  but  spent  with  Ralph  a 
good  deal  of  my  earnings  in  going  to  plays  and  other  places 
of  amusemicnt.  We  had  together  consum_ed  all  my  pistoles, 
and  now  just  rubbed  on  from  hand  to  mouth.  He  seem'd 
quite  to  forget  his  wife  and  child,  and  I,  by  degrees,  my 
engagements  with  Miss  Read,  to  whom  I  never  wrote  more 
than  one  letter,  and  that  was  to  let  her  know  I  was  not 
likely  soon  to  return.  This  y^sls  another  of  the  great  errata 
of  my  life,  which  I  should  wish  to  correct  if  I  were  to  live 
it  over  again.  In  fact,  by  our  expenses,  I  was  constantly 
kept  unable  to  pay  my  passage. 

At  Palmer's  I  was  employed  in  composing  for  the  second 
edition  of  Wollaston's  ''  Religion  of  Nature."  Some  of  his 
reasonings  not  appearing  to  me  well  founded,  I  wrote  a 
little  metaphysical  piece  in  which  I  made  remarks  on  them. 
It  was  entitled  "A  Dissertation  on  Liberty  and  Necessity, 


44  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

Pleasure  and  Pain."  I  inscribed  it  to  my  friend  Ralph;  I 
printed  a  small  number.  It  occasion'd  my  being  more  con- 
sidered by  Mr.  Palmer  as  a  young  man  of  some  ingenuity, 
tho'  he  seriously  expostulated  with  me  upon  the  principles 
of  my  pamphlet,  which  to  him  appear'd  abominable.  My 
printing  this  pamphlet  was  another  erratum.  While  I 
lodg'd  in  Little  Britain,  I  made  an  acquaintance  with  one 
Wilcox,  a  bookseller,  whose  shop  was  at  the  next  door. 
He  had  an  immense  collection  of  second-hand  books.  Cir- 
culating libraries  were  not  then  in  use;  but  we  agreed  that, 
on  certain  reasonable  terms,  which  I  have  now  forgotten, 
I  might  take,  read,  and  return  any  of  his  books.  This  I 
esteem'd  a  great  advantage,  and  I  miade  as  much  use  of  it 
as  I  could. 

My  pamphlet  by  some  means  falling  into  the  hands  of 
one  Lyons,  a  surgeon,  author  of  a  book  entitled  "  The  In- 
fallibility of  Human  Judgment,"  it  occasioned  an  acquaint- 
ance between  us.  He  took  great  notice  of  me,  called  on  me 
often  to  converse  on  those  subjects,  carried  me  to  the  Horns, 

a  pale  alehouse  in Lane,  Cheapside,  and  introduced  me 

to  Dr.  Mandeville,  author  of  the  "  Fable  of  the  Bees,"  v^rho 
had  a  club  there,  of  which  he  was  the  soul,  being  a  most 
facetious,  entertaining  companion.  Lyons,  too,  introduced 
me  to  Dr.  Pemberton,  at  Batson's  Coffee-house,  who  promised 
to  give  me  an  opportunity,  some  time  or  other,  of  seeing 
Sir  Isaac  Newton,  of  which  I  was  extreamely  desirous;  but 
this  never  happened. 

I  had  brought  over  a  few  curiosities,  among  which  th^ 
principal  was  a  purse  made  of  the  asbestos,  which  purifies 
by  fire.  Sir  Hans  Sloane  heard  of  it,  came  to  see  me,  and 
invited  me  to  his  house  in  Bloomsbury  Square,  where  he 
show'd  me  all  his  curiosities,  and  persuaded  me  to  let  him 
add  that  to  the  number,  for  which  he  paid  me  handsomely. 

In  our  house  there  lodg'd  a  young  woman,  a  milliner,  who, 
I  think,  had  a  shop  in  the  Cloisters.  She  had  been  genteelly 
bred,  was  sensible  and  lively,  and  of  most  pleasing  conversa- 
tion. Ralph  read  plays  to  her  in  the  evenings,  they  grew 
intimate,  she  took  another  lodging,  and  he  followed  her. 
They  liv'd  together  some  time;  but,  he  being  still  out  of 
business,  and  her  income  not  sufficient  to  maintain  them 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  45 

with  her  child,  he  took  a  resolution  of  going  from  London, 
to  try  for  a  country  school,  which  he  thought  himself  well 
qualified  to  undertake,  as  he  wrote  an  excellent  hand,  and 
was  a  master  of  arithmetic  and  accounts.  This,  however,  he 
deemed  a  business  below  him,  and  confident  of  future  better 
fortune,  when  he  should  be  unwilling  to  have  it  known  that 
he  once  was  so  meanly  employed,  he  changed  his  name,  and 
did  me  the  honor  to  assume  mine;  for  I  soon  after  had  ^ 
letter  from  him,  acquainting  me  that  he  was  settled  in  a 
small  village  (in  Berkshire,  I  think  it  was,  where  he  taught 
reading  and  writing  to  ten  or  a  dozen  boys,  at  sixpence  each 

per   week),   recommending   Mrs.    T to   my    care,   and 

desiring  me  to  write  to  him,  directing  for  Mr.  Franklin, 
schoolmaster,  at  such  a  place. 

He  continued  to  write  frequently,  sending  me  large  speci- 
mens of  an  epic  poem  which  he  was  then  composing,  and 
desiring  my  remarks  and  corrections.  These  I  gave  him 
from  time  to  time,  but  endeavor'd  rather  to  discourage  his 
proceeding.  One  of  Young's  Satires  was  then  just  pub- 
lished. I  copy'd  and  sent  him  a  great  part  of  it,  which  set  in 
a  strong  light  the  folly  of  pursuing  the  Muses  with  any  hope 
of  advancement  by  them.  All  was  in  vain;  sheets  of  the 
poem  continued  to  come  by  every  post.     In  the  mean  time, 

Mrs.   T ,   having  on   his   account   lost   her   friends   and 

business,  was  often  in  distresses,  and  us'd  to  send  for  me, 
and  borrow  what  I  could  spare  to  help  her  out  of  them.  I 
grew  fond  of  her  company,  and,  being  at  that  time  under  no 
religious  restraint,  and  presuming  upon  my  importance  to 
her,  I  attempted  familiarities  (another  erratum)  which  she 
repuls'd  with  a  proper  resentment,  and  acquainted  him  with 
my  behaviour.  This  made  a  breach  between  us;  and,  when 
he  returned  again  to  London,  he  let  me  know  he  thought  I 
had  canceird  all  the  obligations  he  had  been  under  to  me. 
So  I  found  I  was  never  to  expect  his  repaying  me  what  I 
lent  to  him,  or  advanced  for  him.  This,  however,  was  not 
then  of  much  consequence,  as  he  was  totally  unable;  and  in 
the  loss  of  his  friendship  I  found  myself  relieved  from  a 
burthen.  I  now  began  to  think  of  getting  a  little  money 
beforehand,  and,  expecting  better  work,  I  left  Palmer's  to 
work  at  Watts's,  near  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields,  a  still  ^rtdXQt 


46  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

printing-house.  Here  I  continued  all  the  rest  of  my  stay 
in  London. 

At  my  first  admission  into  this  printing-house  I  took  to 
working  at  press,  imagining  I  felt  a  want  of  the  bodily 
zeroise  I  had  been  us'd  to  in  America,  where  presswork 
is  mix'd  with  composing.  I  drank  only  water ;  the  other 
workmen,  near  fifty  in  number,  were  great  guzzlers  of  beer. 
On  occasion,  I  carried  up  and  down  stairs  a  large  form  of 
types  in  each  hand,  when  others  carried  but  one  in  both 
hands.  They  wondered  to  see,  from  this  and  several  in- 
stances, that  the  Wafer-American^  as  they  called  me,  was 
stronger  than  themselves,  who  drank  strong  beer !  We  had 
an  alehouse  boy  who  attended  always  in  the  house  to  supply 
the  workmen.  My  companion  at  the  press  drank  every  day 
a  pint  before  breakfast,  a  pint  at  breakfast  with  his  bread 
and  cheese,  a  pint  between  breakfast  and  dinner,  a  pint  at 
dinner,  a  pint  in  the  afternoon  about  six  o'clock,  and 
another  when  he  had  done  his  day's  work.  I  thought  it  a 
detestable  custom;  but  it  was  necessary,  he  supposed,  to 
drink  strong  beer,  that  he  might  be  strong  to  labor.  I 
endeavored  to  convince  him  that  the  bodily  strength  afforded 
by  beer  could  only  be  in  proportion  to  the  grain  or  flour  of 
the  barley  dissolved  in  the  water  of  which  it  was  made; 
that  there  was  more  flour  in  a  pennyworth  of  bread;  and 
therefore,  if  he  y/ould  eat  that  with  a  pint  of  water,  it  would 
give  him  more  strength  than  a  quart  of  beer.  He  drank  on, 
however,  and  had  four  or  five  shillings  to  pay  out  of  his 
wages  every  Saturday  night  for  that  muddling  liquor;  an 
expense  I  was  free  from.  And  thus  these  poor  devils  keep 
themselves  aKvays  under. 

Watts,  after  some  weeks,  desiring  to  have  me  in  the  com- 
posing-room, I  left  the  pressmen;  a  new  bien  venu  or  sum 
for  drink,  being  five  shillings,  was  demanded  of  me  by  the 
compositors.  I  thought  it  an  imposition,  as  I  had  paid  below ; 
the  master  thought  so  too,  and  forbad  my  paying  it.  I  stood 
out  two  or  three  weeks,  was  accordingly  considered  as  an 
excommunicate,  and  had  so  many  little  pieces  of  private 
mischief  done  me,  by  mixing  my  sorts,  transposing  my  pages, 
breaking  my  matter,  etc.,  etc.,  if  I  were  ever  so  little  out  of 
the  room,  and  all  ascribed  to  the  chappel  ghost,  which  they 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  47 

said  ever  hattnted  those  not  regularly  admitted,  that,  not- 
withstanding the  master's  protection,  I  found  myself  oblig'd 
to  comply  and  pay  the  money,  convinc'd  of  the  folly  of  being 
on  ill  terms  with  those  one  is  to  live  with  continually. 

I  was  now  on  a  fair  footing  with  them,  and  soon  acquir'd 
considerable  influence*  I  propos'd  some  reasonable  altera- 
tions in  their  chappel^  laws,  and  carried  them  against  all 
opposition.  From  my  example,  a  great  part  of  them  left 
their  muddling  breakfast  of  beer,  and  bread,  and  cheese,  find- 
ing they  could  with  me  be  suppli'd  from  a  neighboring  house 
with  a  large  porringer  of  hot  water-gruel,  sprinkled  with 
pepper,  crumbl'd  with  bread  and  a  bit  of  butter  in  it,  for  the 
price  of  a  pint  of  beer,  viz.,  three  half-pence.  This  was  a 
more  comfortable  as  well  as  cheaper  breakfast,  and  kept 
their  heads  clearer.  Those  who  continued  sotting  with  beer 
all  day,  were  often,  by  not  paying,  out  of  credit  at  the  ale- 
house, and  us'd  to  make  interest  with  me  to  get  beer;  their 
lights  as  they  phrased  it,  being  out.  I  watch'd  the  pay-table 
on  Saturday  night,  and  collected  what  I  stood  engag'd  for 
them,  having  to  pay  sometimes  near  thirty  shillings  a  week 
on  their  account.  This,  and  my  being  esteem'd  a  pretty 
good  rig  git  e J  that  is,  a  jocular  verbal  satirist,  supported  my 
consequence  in  the  society.  My  constant  attendance  (I 
never  making  a  St.  Monday)  recommended  me  to  the  mas- 
ter; and  my  uncommon  quickness  at  composing  occasioned 
my  being  put  upon  all  v/ork  of  dispatch,  which  was  generally 
better  paid.    So  I  went  on  now  very  agreeably. 

My  lodging  in  Little  Britain  being  too  remote,  I  found 
another  in  Duke-street,  opposite  to  the  Romish  Chapel.  It 
was  two  pair  of  stairs  backwards,  at  an  Italian  warehouse. 
A  widow  lady  kept  the  house;  she  had  a  daughter,  and  a 
maid  servant,  and  a  journeyman  who  attended  the  ware- 
house, but  lodg'd  abroad.  After  sending  to  inquire  my 
character  at  the  house  where  I  last  lodg'd  she  agreed  to  take 
me  in  at  the  same  rate,  5s.  6d.  per  week;  cheaper,  as  she 

*  "A  printing--house  is  always  called  a  chapel  by  the  workmeti,^  the  origifi 
of  which  appears  to  have  been  that  printing  was  first  carried  on  in  England 
in  an  ancient  chapel  converted  into  a  printing-house,  and  the  title  has  been 
preserved  by  tradition.  ^  The  bi-en  venu  among  the  printers  answers  to  the 
texms  entrance  and  footing  among  mechanics;  thus  a  journeyman,  on  enter- 
ing a  printing-house,  was  accustomed  to  pay  one  or  more  gallons  of  beer  for 
the  good  of  the  chapel;  this  custom  was  falling  into  disuse  thirty  years  ago; 
it  is  very  properly  rejected  entirely  in  the  United  States." — ^W.  T.  F. 


48  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN      - 

said,  from  the  protection  she  expected  in  having  a  man  lodge 
in  the  house.  She  was  a  widow,  an  elderly  woman;  had 
been  bred  a  Protestant,  being  a  clergyman's  daughter,  but 
was  converted  to  the  Catholic  religion  by  her  husband,  whose 
memory  she  much  revered;  had  lived  much  among  people 
of  distinction,  and  knew  a  thousand  anecdotes  of  them  as  far 
back  as  the  times  of  Charles  the  Second.  She  was  lam^e  in 
her  knees  with  the  gout,  and,  therefore,  seldom  stirred  out 
of  her  room,  so  sometimes  wanted  company;  and  hers  was 
so  highly  amusing  to  me,  that  I  was  sure  to  spend  an  evening 
with  her  whenever  she  desired  it.  Our  supper  was  only  half 
an  anchovy  each,  on  a  very  little  strip  of  bread  and  butter, 
asid  half  a  pint  of  ale  between  us ;  but  the  entertainment  was 
in  her  conversation.  My  always  keeping  good  hours,  and 
giving  little  trouble  in  the  family,  made  her  unwilling  to 
part  with  me ;  so  that,  when  I  talk'd  of  a  lodging  I  had  heard 
of,  nearer  my  business,  for  two  shillings  a  week,  which,  intent 
as  I  now  |Was  on  saving  money,  made  some  difference,  she 
bid  me  not  think  of  it,  for  she  would  abate  me  two  shillings 
a  week  for  the  future ;  so  I  remained  with  her  at  one  shilling 
and  sixpence  as  long  as  I  staid  in  London. 

In  a  garret  of  her  house  there  lived  a  maiden  lady  of 
seventy,  in  the  most  retired  manner,  of  whom  my  landlady 
gave  me  this  account:  that  she  was  a  Roman  Catholic,  had 
been  sent  abroad  when  young,  and  lodg'd  in  a  nunnery  with 
an  intent  of  becoming  a  nun ;  but,  the  country  not  agreeing 
with  her,  she  returned  to  England,  where,  there  being  no 
nunnery,  she  had  vow'd  to  lead  the  life  of  a  nun,  as  near 
as  might  be  done  in  those  circumstances.  Accordingly,  she 
had  given  all  her  estate  to  charitable  uses,  reserving  only 
twelve  pounds  a  year  to  live  on,  and  out  of  this  sum  she 
still  gave  a  great  deal  in  charity,  living  herself  on  water- 
gruel  only,  and  using  no  fire  but  to  boil  it.  She  had  lived 
many  years  in  that  garret,  being  permitted  to  remain  there 
gratis  by  successive  Catholic  tenants  of  the  house  below,  as 
they  deemed  it  a  blessing  to  have  her  there.  A  priest  visited 
fief  to  confess  her  every  day.  "  I  have  ask'd  her,"  says  my 
landlady,  "how  she,  as  she  liv'd,  could  possibly  find  so  mucH 
employment  for  a  confessor?  "  "  Oh,"  said  she,  "it  is  inrpos- 
jwble  to  avoid  vain  thoughts"    I  was  permitted  once  to  visit 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  49 

her.  She  was  chearful  and  polite,  and  convers'd  pleasantly. 
The  room  was  clean,  but  had  no  other  furniture  than  a 
matras,  a  table  with  a  crucifix  and  book,  a  stool  which  she 
gave  me  to  sit  on,  and  a  picture  over  the  chimney  of  Saint 
Veronica  displaying  her  handkerchief,  with  the  miraculous 
figure  of  Christ's  bleeding  face  on  it,  which  she  explained 
to  me  with  great  seriousness.  She  look'd  pale,  but  was  never 
sick;  and  I  give  it  as  another  instance  on  how  small  an 
income  life  and  health  may  be  supported. 

At  Watts's  printing-house  I  contracted  an  acquaintance 
with  an  ingenious  young  man,  one  Wygate,  who,  having 
wealthy  relations,  had  been  better  educated  than  most 
printers;  was  a  tolerable  Latinist,  spoke  French,  and  lov'd 
reading.  I  taught  him  and  a  friend  of  his  to  swim  at  twice 
going  into  the  river,  and  they  soon  became  good  swimmers. 
They  introduc'd  me  to  some  gentlemen  from  the  country, 
whd  went  to  Chelsea  by  water  to  see  the  College  and  Don 
Saltero's  curiositieso  In  our  return,  at  the  request  of  the 
company,  whose  curiosity  Wygate  had  excited,  I  stripped 
and  leaped  into  the  river,  and  swam  from  near  Chelsea  to 
Blackfryar's,  performing  on  the  way  many  feats  of  activity, 
both  upon  and  under  water,  that  surprised  and  pleas'd  those 
to  whom  they  were  novelties. 

I  had  from  a  child  been  ever  delighted  with  this  exercise, 
had  studied  and  practis'd  all  Thevenot's  motions  and  posi- 
tions, added  some  of  my  own,  aiming  at  the  graceful  and  easy 
as  well  as  the  useful.  All  these  I  took  this  occasion  of  exhib- 
iting to  the  company,  and  was  much  flatter'd  by  their  admira- 
tion; and  Wygate,  who  was  desirous  of  becoming  a  master, 
grew  more  and  more  attach'd  to  me  on  that  account,  as  well 
as  from  the  similarity  of  our  studies.  He  at  length  proposed 
to  me  travelling  all  over  Europe  together,  supporting  our- 
selves everywhere  by  working  at  our  business.  I  was  once 
inclined  to  it;  but,  mentioning  it  to  my  good  friend  Mr. 
Denham,  with  whom  I  often  spent  an  hour  when  I  had 
leisure,  he  dissuaded  me  from  it,  advising  me  to  think  only 
of  returning  to  Pennsilvania,  which  he  was  now  about  to  do. 

I  must  record  one  trait  of  this  good  man's  character.  He 
,liad  formerly  been  in  business  at  Bristol,  but  failed  in  ciebl: 
to  a  number  of  people,  compounded  and  went  to  Ajlierica. 


50  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN    - 

There,  by  a  close  application  to  business  as  a  mefclicint,  he 
acquir'd  a  plentiful  fortune  in  a  few  years.  Returning  to 
England  in  the  ship  with  me,  he  invited  his  old  creditors  to 
an  entertainment^  at  which  he  thank'd  them  for  the  easy 
composition  they  had  favored  him  with,  and,  when  they 
expected  nothing  but  the  treat,  every  man  at  the  first  remove 
found  under  his  plate  an  order  on  a  banker  for  the  full 
amount  of  the  unpaid  remainder  with  interest. 

He  now  told  me  he  was  about  to  return  to  Philadelphia, 
and  should  carry  over  a  great  quantity  of  goods  in  order  to 
open  a  store  there.  He  propos'd  to  take  me  over  as  his 
clerk,  to  keep  his  books,  in  which  he  would  instruct  me,  copy 
his  letters,  and  attend  the  store.  He  added  that,  as  soon  as 
I  should  be  acquainted  with  mercantile  business,  he  would 
promote  me  by  sending  me  with  a  cargo  of  flour  and  bread, 
etc.,  to  the  West  Indies,  and  procure  me  commissions  from 
others  which  would  be  profitable;  and,  if  I  manag'd  well, 
would  establish  me  handsomely.  The  thing  pleas'd  m.e;  for 
I  was  grown  tired  of  London,  remembered  with  pleasure  the 
happy  months  I  had  spent  in  Pennsylvania,  and  wish'd  again 
to  see  it;  therefore  I  immediately  agreed  on  the  terms  of 
fifty  pounds  a  year,  Pennsylvania  money;  less,  indeed,  than 
my  present  gettings  as  a  compositor,  but  affording  a  better 
prospect. 

I  now  took  leave  of  printing,  as  I  thought,  for  ever,  and 
was  daily  employed  in  my  new  business,  going  about  with 
Mr.  Denham  among  the  tradesmen  to  purchase  various 
articles,  and  seeing  them  pack'd  up,  doing  errands,  calling 
upon  workmen  to  dispatch,  etc. ;  and,  when  all  was  on  board, 
I  had  a  few  days'  leisure.  On  one  of  these  days,  I  was,  to 
my  surprise,  sent  for  by  a  great  man  I  knew  only  by  name, 
a  Sir  William  Wyndham,  and  I  waited  upon  him.  He  had 
heard  by  some  means  or  other  of  my  swimming  from  Chelsea 
to  Blackfriar's,  and  of  my  teaching  Wygate  and  another 
young  man  to  swim  in  a  few  hours.  He  had  two  sons,  about 
to  set  out  on  their  travels;  he  wish'd  to  have  them  first 
taught  swimming,  and  proposed  to  gratify  me  handsomely 
if  I  would  teach  them.  They  were  not  yet  come  to  town, 
and  my  stay  was  uncertain,  so  I  could  not  undertake  it ;  but, 
from  this  incident,  I  thought  it  likely  that,  if  I  were  to 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  51 

remain  in  England  and  open  a  swimming-schoool,  I  might 
get  a  good  deal  of  money ;  and  it  struck  me  so  strongly,  that, 
had  the  overture  been  sooner  made  me,  probably  I  should 
not  so  soon  have  returned  to  America.  After  many  years, 
you  and  I  had  something  of  more  importance  to  do  with  one 
of  these  sons  of  Sir  William  Wyndham,  becom.e  Earl  of 
Egremoat,  v/hich  I  shall  mention  in  its  place. 

Thus  I  spent  about  eighteen  months  in  London;  most 
part  of  the  time  I  work'd  hard  at  my  business,  and  spent  but 
little  upon  m^yself  except  in  seeing  plays  and  in  books.  My 
friend  Ralph  had  kept  me  poor ;  he  owed  me  about  twenty- 
seven  pounds,  which  I  was  now  never  likely  to  receive;  a 
great  sum  out  of  my  small  earnings !  I  lov'd  him,  notwith- 
standing, for  he  had  many  amiable  qualities.  I  had  by  no 
mieans  improv'd  m.y  fortune;  but  I  had  picked  up  some  very 
ingenious  acquaintance,  whose  conversation  was  of  great 
advantage  to  me;  and  I  had  read  considerably. 

We  sail'd  from  Gravesend  on  the  23d  of  July,  1726.  For 
the  incidents  of  the  voyage,  I  refer  you  to  my  Journal,  where 
you  will  find  them  all  minutely  related.  Perhaps  the  most 
important  part  of  that  journal  is  the  plan^  to  be  found  in  it, 
which  I  formed  at  sea,  for  regulating  my  future  conduct  in 
life.  It  is  the  more  remarkable,  as  being  formed  when  I  was 
so  young,  and  yet  being  pretty  faithfully  adhered  to  quite 
thro'  to  old  age. 

We  landed  in  Philadelphia  on  the  nth  of  October,  where 
I  found  sundry  alterations.  Keith  was  no  longer  governor, 
being  superseded  by  Major  Gordon.  I  met  liim  walking  the 
streets  as  a  common  citizen.  He  seem'd  a  little  asham'd  at 
seeing  me,  but  pass'd  without  saying  anything.  I  should 
have  been  as  much  asham'd  at  seeing  Miss  Read,  had  not 
her  friends,  despairing  with  reason  of  my  return  after  the 
receipt  of  my  letter,  persuaded  her  to  marry  another,  one 
Rogers,  a  potter,  which  was  done  in  my  absence.  With  him, 
however,  she  was  never  happy,  and  soon  parted  from  him, 
refusing  to  cohabit  with  him  or  bear  his  name,  it  being 
now  said  that  he  had  another  wife.  He  was  a  worthless 
fellow,  tho'  an  excellent  workman,  which  was  the  temptation 

s  The  "  Journal "  v/as  printed  by  Sparks,  from  a  copy  made  at  Eeadlag 
la  1787.     But  it  does  not  contain  the  Plan. — Ed. 


52  BENJAMIN  f  RANKLIIi 

tQ  her  frien3s.  He  got  into  debt,  ran  away  in  1^37  or  1728, 
went  to  the  West  Indies,  and  died  there.  Keimer  had  got  a 
better  house,  a  shop  well  supply 'd  with  stationery,  plenty  of 
new  types,  a  number  of  hands,  tho'  none  good,  and  seemed 
to  have  a  great  deal  of  business, 

Mr.  Denham  took  a  store  in  Water-street,  where  wc  openM 
our  goods;  I  attended  the  business  diligently^  studied 
accounts,  and  grew,  in  a  little  time,  expert  at  selling.  We 
lodg'd  and  boarded  together;  he  counsell'd  me  as  a  father, 
having  a  sincere  regard  for  me.  I  respected  and  lov'd  him, 
and  we  might  have  gone  on  together  very  happy ;  but,  in  the 
beginning  of  February,  1726-7,  when  I  had  just  pass'd  my 
twenty-first  year,  we  both  were  taken  ill.  My  distemper  was 
a  pleurisy,  which  very  nearly  carried  me  off,  I  suffered  a 
good  deal,  gave  up  the  point  in  my  own  mind,  and  was  rather 
disappointed  when  I  found  myself  recovering,  regretting,  in 
some  degree,  that  I  must  now,  some  time  or  other,  have  all 
that  disagreeable  work  to  do  over  again.  I  forget  what  his 
distemper  was;  it  held  him  a  long  time,  and  at  length  car- 
ried him  off.  He  left  me  a  small  legacy  in  a  nuncupative 
will,  as  a  token  of  his  kindness  for  me,  and  he  left  me  once 
more  to  the  v/ide  world;  for  the  store  was  taken  into  the 
care  of  his  executors,  and  my  employment  under  him  ended. 

My  brother-in-law,  Holmes,  being  now  at  Philadelphia, 
advised  my  return  to  my  business ;  and  Keimer  tempted  me, 
with  an  offer  of  large  wages  by  the  year,  to  come  and  take 
the  management  of  his  printing-house,  that  he  might  better 
attend  his  stationer's  shop.  I  had  heard  a  bad  character  of 
him  in  London  from  his  wife  and  her  friends,  and  was  not 
fond  of  having  any  more  to  do  with  him.  I  tri'd  for  farther 
employment  as  a  merchant's  clerk ;  but,  not  readily  meeting 
with  any,  I  clos'd  again  with  Keimer.  I  found  in  his  house 
these  hands:  Hugh  Meredith,  a  Welsh  Pensilvanian,  thirty 
years  of  age,  bred  to  country  work;  honest,  sensible,  had  a 
great  deal  of  solid  observation,  was  something  of  a  reader, 
but  given  to  drink.  Stephen  Potts,  a  young  countryman  of 
full  age,  bred  to  the  same,  of  uncommon  natural  parts,  and 
great  wit  and  humor,  but  a  little  idle.  These  he  had  agreed 
with  at  extream  low  wages  per  week,  to  be  rais'd  a  shilling 
every  three  months,  as  they  would  deserve  by  improving  in 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  53 

their  business;  and  the  expectation  of  these  high  wages,  to 
come  on  hereafter,  was  what  he  had  drawn  them  in  with. 
Meredith  was  to  work  at  press,  Potts  at  book-binding,  which 
he,  by  agreement,  was  to  teach  them,  though  he  knew  neither 

one  nor  t'other.    John ,  a  wild  Irishman,  brought  up  to 

no  business,  whose  service,  for  four  years,  Keimer  had  pur- 
chased from  the  captain  of  a  ship;  he,  too,  was  to  be  made 
a  pressm.an.  George  Webb,  an  Oxford  scholar,  whose  time 
for  four  years  he  had  likewise  bought,  intending  him  for  a 
compositor,  of  whom  more  presently;  and  David  Harry,  a 
Country  boy,  whom  he  had  taken  apprentice. 

I  soon  perceiv'd  that  the  intention  of  engaging  me  at  wages 
so  much  higher  than  he  had  been  us'd  to  give,  was,  to  have 
these  raw,  cheap  hands  form'd  thro'  me;  and,  as  soon  as  I 
had  instructed  them,  then  they  being  all  articled  to  him,  he 
should  be  able  to  do  without  me.  I  went  on,  however,  very 
cheerfully,  put  his  printing-house  in  order,  which  had  been 
in  great  confusion,  and  brought  his  hands  by  degrees  to 
mind  their  business  and  to  do  it  better. 

It  was  an  odd  thing  to  find  an  Oxford  scholar  in  the 
situation  of  a  bought  servant.  He  was  not  more  than 
eighteen  years  of  age,  and  gave  me  this  account  of  himself; 
that  he  was  born  in  Gloucester,  educated  at  a  grammar- 
school  there,  had  been  distinguish'd  among  the  scholars  for 
some  apparent  superiority  in  performing  his  part,  when  they 
exhibited  plays;  belonged  to  the  Witty  Club  there,  and  had 
written  some  pieces  in  prose  and  verse,  which  were  printed 
in  the  Gloucester  newspapers;  thence  he  was  sent  to  Oxford; 
where  he  continued  about  a  year,  but  not  well  satisfi'd,  wish- 
ing of  all  things  to  see  London,  and  become  a  playero  At 
length,  receiving  his  quarterly  allowance  of  fifteen  guineas, 
instead  of  discharging  his  debts  he  walk'd  out  of  town,  hid 
his  gown  in  a  furze  bush,  and  footed  it  to  London,  where, 
having  no  friend  to  advise  him,  he  fell  into  bad  company, 
soon  spent  his  guineas,  found  no  means  of  being  introduc'd 
among  the  players,  grew  necessitous,  pawn'd  his  cloaths,  and 
wanted  bread.  Walking  the  street  very  hungry,  and  not 
knowing  what  to  do  with  himself,  a  crimp's  bill  was  put  into 
his  hand,  offering  immediate  entertainment  and  encourage- 
ment to  such  as  would  bind  themselves  to  serve  in  America. 


54  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

He  went  directly,  sign'd  the  indentures,  was  put  intt?  tHe 
ship,  and  came  over,  never  writing  a  line  to  acquaint  his 
friends  what  was  become  of  him.  He  was  lively,  witty, 
good-natur'd,  and  a  pleasant  companion,  but  idle,  thought- 
less, and  imprudent  to  the  last  degree. 

John,  the  Irishman,  soon  ran  away;  with  the  rest  I  began 
to  live  very  agreeably,  for  they  all  respected  me  the  more, 
as  they  found  Keimer  incapable  of  instructing  them,  and  that 
from  me  they  learned  something  daily.  We  never  worked 
on  Saturday,  that  being  Keimer's  Sabbath,  so  I  had  two 
days  for  reading.  My  acquaintance  with  ingenious  people 
in  the  town  increased.  Keimer  himself  treated  me  with 
great  civility  and  apparent  regard,  and  nothing  now  made 
me  uneasy  but  my  debt  to  Vernon,  which  I  was  yet  unable 
to  pay,  being  hitherto  but  a  poor  oeconomist.  He,  however, 
kindly  made  no  demand  of  it. 

Our  ptiiiting-house  often  wanted  sorts,  and  there  was  no 
letter-founder  in  America ;  I  had  seen  types  cast  at  James's 
in  London,  but  without  much  attention  to  the  manner;  how- 
ever, I  now  contrived  a  mould,  made  use  of  the  letters  we 
had  as  puncheons,  struck  the  matrices  in  lead,  and  thus 
supply'd  in  a  pretty  tolerable  way  all  deficiencies.  I  also 
engrav'd  several  things  on  occasion ;  I  made  the  ink ;  I  was 
warehouseman,  and  everything,  and,  in  short,  quite  a  fac- 
totum. 

But,  however  serviceable  I  might  be,  I  found  that  my 
services  became  every  day  of  less  im.portance,  as  the  other 
hands  improved  in  the  business;  and,  when  Keimer  paid 
tny  second  quarter's  wages,  he  let  me  know  that  he  felt 
them  too  heavy,  and  thought  I  should  make  an  abatement. 
He  grew  by  degrees  less  civil,  put  on  m-ore  of  the  master, 
frequently  found  fault,  was  captious,  and  seem'd  ready  for 
an  outbreaking.  I  went  on,  nevertheless,  with  a  good  deal 
of  patience,  thinking  that  his  encumber'd  circumstances 
were  partly  the  cause.  At  length  a  trifle  snapt  our  connec- 
tions; for,  a  great  noise  happening  near  the  court-house, 
I  put  my  head  out  of  the  window  to  see  what  was  the  matter. 
Keimer,  being  in  the  street,  look'd  up  and  saw  me,  call'd 
out  to  me  in  a  loud  voice  and  angry  tone  to  mind  my 
business,  adding  some  reproachful  words,  that  nettled  me  the 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  55 

more  for  tKeir  publicity,  all  the  neighbors  who  were  looking 
out  on  the  same  occasion  being  witnesses  how  I  was  treated. 
He  came  up  imimediately  into  the  printing-house,  continu'd 
the  quarrel,  high  words  pass'd  on  both  sides,  he  gave  me 
the  quarterns  warning  we  had  stipulated,  expressing  a  wish 
that  he  had  not  been  oblig'd  to  so  long  a  warning.  I  told 
him  his  wish  was  unnecessary,  for  I  would  leave  him  that 
instant;  and  so,  taking  my  hat,  walk'd  out  of  doors,  desir- 
ing Meredith,  whom  I  saw  below,  to  take  care  of  some 
things  I  left,  and  bring  them  to  my  lodgings. 

Meredith  came  accordingly  in  the  evening,  when  we  talked 
my  affair  over.  He  had  conceiv'd  a  great  regard  for  me, 
and  was  very  unwilling  that  I  should  leave  the  house  while 
he  remain'd  in  it.  He  dissuaded  me  from  returning  to  my 
native  country,  which  I  began  to  think  of;  he  reminded  me 
that  Keimer  was  in  debt  for  all  he  possessed;  that  his 
creditors  began  to  be  uneasy ;  that  he  kept  his  shop  mxiserably, 
sold  often  without  profit  for  ready  money,  and  often  trusted 
without  keeping  accounts ;  that  he  must  therefore  fail,  which 
would  make  a  vacancy  I  might  profit  of.  I  objected  my  want 
of  money.  He  then  let  me  know  that  his  father  had  a  high 
opinion  of  me,  and,  from  some  discourse  that  had  pass'd 
between  them,  he  was  sure  would  advance  money  to  set  us 
up,  if  I  would  enter  into  partnership  with  him.  "  My  time,** 
says  he,  "  will  be  out  with  Keimer  in  the  spring ;  by  that 
time  we  may  have  our  press  and  types  in  from  London.  I 
am  sensible  I  am  no  workman;  if  you  like  it,  your  skill  In 
the  business  shall  be  set  against  the  stock  I  furnish,  and 
we  will  share  the  profits  equally." 

The  proposal  was  agreeable,  and  I  consented;  his  father 
was  in  town  and  approv'd  of  it;  the  more  as  he  saw  I  had 
great  influence  with  his  son,  had  prevail'd  on  him  to  abstain 
long  from  dram-drinking,  and  he  hop'd  m.ight  break  him  off 
that  wretched  habit  entirely,  when  we  came  to  be  so  closely 
connected.  I  gave  an  inventory  to  the  father,  who  carry'd 
it  to  a  merchant;  the  things  were  sent  for,  the  secret  v/as 
to  be  kept  till  they  should  arrive,  and  in  the  mean  time  I 
was  to  get  work,  if  I  could,  at  the  other  printing-house. 
But  I  found  no  vacancy  there,  and  so  remain'd  idle  a  few 
days,  when  Keimer^  on  a  prospect  of  being  employ'd  to  print 


S6  BENJAMIN    FRANKLIN 

some  paper  money  in  New  Jersey,  which  would  require  cuts 
and  various  types  that  I  only  could  supply,  and  apprehending 
Bradford  might  engage  me  and  get  the  jobb  from  him, 
sent  me  a  very  civil  message,  that  old  friends  should  not 
part  for  a  few  words,  the  effect  of  sudden  passion,  and 
wishing  me  to  return,  Meredith  persuaded  me  to  comply, 
as  it  would  give  more  opportunity  for  his  improvement  under 
my  daily  instructions;  so  I  return' d,  and  we  went  on  more 
smoothly  than  for  some  time  before.  The  New  Jersey  jobb 
was  obtain'd,  I  contriv'd  a  copperplate  press  for  it,  the 
first  that  had  been  seen  in  the  country;  I  cut  several  orna- 
ments and  checks  for  the  bills.  We  went  together  to  Bur- 
lington, where  I  executed  the  whole  to  satisfaction;  and  he 
received  so  large  a  sum  for  the  work  as  to  be  enabled  there- 
by to  keep  his  head  much  longer  above  water. 

At  Burlington  I  made  an  acquaintance  with  many  prin- 
cipal people  of  the  province.  Several  of  them  had  been 
appointed  by  the  Assembly  a  com.mittee  to  attend  the  press, 
and  take  care  that  no  more  bills  were  printed  than  the  law 
directed.  They  were  therefore,  by  turns,  constantly  with 
us,  and  generally  he  who  attended,  brought  with  him  a 
friend  or  two  for  company.  My  mind  having  been  much 
more  improv'd  by  reading  than  Keimer's,  I  suppose  it  was 
for  that  reason  my  conversation  seem'd  to  be  more  valu'd. 
They  had  me  to  their  houses,  introduced  me  to  their  friends, 
and  show'd  me  much  civility;  while  he,  tho'  the  master, 
was  a  little  neglected.  In  truth,  he  was  an  odd  fish ;  ignorant 
of  common  life,  fond  of  rudely  opposing  receiv'd  opinions, 
slovenly  to  extreme  dirtiness,  enthusiastic  in  some  points  of 
religion,  and  a  little  knavish  withal. 

We  continu'd  there  near  three  months;  and  by  that  time 
I  could  reckon  among  my  acquired  friends,  Judge  Allen, 
Samuel  Bustill,  the  secretary  of  the  Province,  Isaac  Pearson, 
Joseph  Cooper,  and  several  of  the  Smiths,  members  of  As- 
sembly, and  Isaac  Decow,  the  surveyor-general.  The  latter 
was  a  shrewd,  sagacious  old  man,  who  told  me  that  he  began 
for  himself,  when  young,  by  wheeling  clay  for  the  brick- 
makers,  learned  to  write  after  he  was  of  age,  carri'd  the 
chain  for  surveyors,  who.  taught  him  surveying,  and  he 
had  now  by  his  industry,  acquir'd  a  good  estate;  and  says 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  57 

he,  "I  foresee  that  you  will  soon  work  this  man  out  of 
business,  and  make  a  fortune  in  it  at  Philadelphia."  He 
had  not  then  the  least  intimation  of  my  intention  to  set  up 
there  or  anywhere.  These  friends  were  afterwards  of  great 
use  to  me,  as  I  occasionally  was  to  som.e  of  them.  They 
all  continued  their  regard  for  me  as  long  as  they  lived. 

Before  I  enter  upon  my  public  appearance  in  business,  it 
may  be  well  to  let  you  know  the  then  state  of  my  mind  with 
regard  to  m.y  principles  and  morals,  that  you  may  see  how  far 
those  influenc'd  the  future  events  of  my  life.  My  parents 
had  early  given  me  religious  impressions,  and  brought  me 
through  my  childhood  piously  in  the  Dissenting  way.  But 
I  was  scarce  fifteen,  when,  after  doubting  by  turns  of  several 
points,  as  I  found  them  disputed  in  the  different  books  I 
read,  I  began  to  doubt  of  Revelation  itself.  Some  books 
against  Deism  fell  into  my  hands ;  they  were  said  to  be  the 
substance  of  sermons  preached  at  Boyle's  Lectures.  It  hap- 
pened that  they  wrought  an  effect  on  me  quite  contrary  to 
what  was  intended  by  them ;  for  the  arguments  of  the  Deists, 
which  were  quoted  to  be  refuted,  appeared  to  me  much 
stronger  than  the  refutations;  in  short,  I  soon  became  a 
thorough  Deist.  My  arguments  perverted  some  others,  par- 
ticularly Collins  and  Ralph ;  but,  each  of  them  having  after- 
wards wrong'd  me  greatly  without  the  least  compunction, 
and  recollecting  Keith's  conduct  towards  me  (who  was 
another  freethinker),  and  my  own  towards  Vernon  and  Miss 
Read,  which  at  times  gave  me  great  trouble,  I  began  to 
suspect  that  this  doctrine,  tho'  it  might  be  true,  was  not 
very  useful.  My  London  pamphlet,  which  had  for  its  motto 
these  lines  of  Dryden: 

"  Whatever  is,  is  right.     Though  purblind  man 
Sees  but  a  part  o'  the  chain,  the  nearest  link : 
His  eyes  not  carrying  to  the  equal  beam, 
That  poises  all  above ;  " 

and  from  the  attributes  of  God,  his  infinite  wisdom,  goodness 
and  power,  concluded  that  nothing  could  possibly  be  wrong 
in  the  world,  and  that  vice  and  virtue  were  empty  distinctions, 
no  such  things  existing,  appear'd  now  not  so  clever  a  per- 
formance as  I  once  thought  it ;  and  I  doubted  whether  some 


S8  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

error  had  not  insinuated  itself  unperceiv'd .  into  my  argu- 
ment, so  as  to  infect  all  that  follow'd,  as  is  common  in 
metaph3^sical  reasonings. 

I   grew   convinc'd   that   trutJi,  sincerity   and  integrity   in 
dealings  betv/een  man  and  man  were  of  the  utmost  importance 
to   the   felicity   of  life;    and   I   form'd  written   resolutions, 
which   still-  remain  in  my  journal  book,  to  practice  them 
ever  while  I  lived.     Revelation  had  indeed  no  weight  with 
mc,    as    such;    but    I   entertain'd   an   opinion   that,   though 
certain   actions  might  not  be  bad  because  they  were  for- 
bidden by  it,  or  good  because  it  commanded  them,  yet  prob- 
ably these  actions  might  be  forbidden  because  they  were  bad 
for  us,  or  commanded  because  they  were  beneficial  to  us, 
in  their  own  natures,  all  the  circumstances  of  things  con- 
sidered.   And  this  persuasion,  with  the  kind  hand  of  Provi- 
dence, or  some  guardian  angel,  or  accidental  favorable  cir- 
cumstances  and   situations,   or   all   together,   preserved  me, 
thro'  this  dangerous  time  of  youth,  and  the  hazardous  situa- 
tions  I   was   sometimes  in   among  strangers,   remote   from 
the  eye  and  advice  of  my  father,  without  any  willful  gross 
immorality  or  injustice,  that  might  have  been  expected  from 
my  want  of  religion.     I  say  willful,  because  the  instances 
I  have  mentioned  had  something  of  necessity  in  them,  from 
my  youth,  inexperience,  and  the  knavery  of  others.     I  had 
therefore   a  tolerable   character  to  begin  the  world  with; 
I  valued  it  properly,  and  determin'd  to  preserve  it. 

We  had  not  been  long  return'd  to  Philadelphia  before 
the  new  types  arriv'd  from  London.  We  settled  with  Keimer, 
and  left  him  by  his  consent  before  he  heard  of  it.  We  found 
a  house  to  hire  near  the  market,  and  took  it.  To  lessen 
the  rent,  which  vv^as  then  but  twenty-four  pounds  a  year, 
tho'  I  have  since  known  it  to  let  for  seventy,  we  took  in 
Thomas  Godfrey,  a  glazier,  and  his  family,  who  were  to 
pay  a  considerable  part  of  it  to  us,  and  we  to  board  with 
them.  We  had  scarce  opened  our  letters  and  put  our  press  in " 
order,  before  George  House,  an  acquaintance  of  mine, 
brought  a  countryman  to  us,  whom  he  had  met  in  the  street 
inquiring  for  a  printer.  All  our  cash  was  now  expenckd 
in  the  variety  of  particulars  we  had  been  obliged  to  procure, 
and  this  countryman's  five  shillings,  being  our  first-fruitSp 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  59 

and  coming  so  seasonably,  gave  me  more  pleasure  than  any 
crown  I  have  since  earned;  and  the  gratitude  I  felt  toward 
House  has  made  me  often  more  ready  than  perhaps  I  should 
otherwise  have  been  to  assist  young  beginners. 

There  are  croakers  in  every  country,  always  boding  its 
ruin.  Such  a  one  then  lived  in  Philadelphia;  a  person  of 
note,  an  elderly  man,  with  a  wise  look  and  a  very  grave 
manner  of  speaking;  his  name  was  Samuel  Mickle.  This 
gentleman,  a  stranger  to  me,  stopt  one  day  at  my  door,  and 
asked  me  if  I  was  the  young  man  who  had  lately  opened  a 
new  printing-house.  Being  answered  in  the  affirmative,  he 
said  he  was  sorry  for  me,  because  it  was  an  expensive 
undertaking,  and  the  expense  would  be  lost ;  for  Philadelphia 
was  a  sinking  place,  the  people  already  half-bankrupts,  or 
near  being  so;  all  appearances  to  the  contrary,  such  as  new 
buildings  and  the  rise  of  rents,  being  to  his  certain  knowledge 
fallacious;  for  they  were,  in  fact,  among  the  things  that 
would  soon  ruin  us.  And  he  gave  me  such  a  detail  of  mis- 
fortunes now  existing,  or  that  were  soon  to  exist,  that  he 
left  me  half  melancholy.  Had  I  known  him  before  I  engaged 
in  this  business,  probably  I  never  should  have  done  it. 
This  man  continued  to  live  in  this  decaying  place,  and  to 
declaim  in  the  same  strain,  refusing  for  many  years  to  buy 
a  house  there,  because  all  was  going  to  destruction;  and 
at  last  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  him  give  five  times  as 
much  for  one  as  he  might  have  bought  it  for  when  he  first 
began  his  croaking. 

I  should  have  mentioned  before,  that,  in  the  autumn  of 
the  preceding  year,  I  had  form'd  most  of  my  ingenious 
acquaintance  into  a  club  of  mutual  improvement,  which  we 
called  the  Junto;  we  met  on  Friday  evenings.  The  rules 
that  I  drew  up  required  that  every  member,  in  his  turn, 
should  produce  one  or  more  queries  on  any  point  of  Morals, 
Politics,  or  Natural  Philosophy,  to  be  discuss'd  by  the  com- 
pany; and  once  in  three  months  produce  and  read  an 
essay  of  his  own  writing,  on  any  subject  he  pleased.  Our 
debates  were  to  be  under  the  direction  of  a  president,  and 
to  be  conducted  in  the  sincere  spirit  of  inquiry  after  truth, 
without  fondness  for  dispute,  or  desire  of  victory;  and,  to 
prevent  warmth,  all  expressions  of  positiveness  in  opinions, 


60  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

or  direct  contradiction,  were  after  some  time  made  contra- 
band,  and  prohibited  under  small  pecuniary  penalties. 

The  first  members  were  Joseph  Breintnal,  a  copyer  of 
deeds  for  the  scriveners,  a  good-natur'd,  friendly,  middle- 
ag'd  man^  a  great  lover  of  poetry,  reading  all  he  could  meet 
with,  and  writing  some  that  was  tolerable;  very  ingenious 
in  many  little  Nicknackeries,  and  of  sensible  conversation. 

Thomas  Godfrey,  a  self-taught  mathematician,  great  in 
his  way,  and  afterward  inventor  of  what  is  now  called 
Hadley's  Quadrant.  But  he  knew  little  out  of  his  way,  and 
was  not  a  pleasing  companion;  as,  like  most  great  mathe- 
maticians I  have  met  with,  he  expected  universal  precision 
in  everything  said,  or  was  for  ever  denying  or  distinguish- 
ing upon  trifles,  to  the  disturbance  of  all  conversation.  He 
soon  left  us. 

Nicholas  Scull,  a  surveyor,  afterwards  surveyor-general, 
who  lov'd  books,  and  sometimes  made  a  few  verses. 

William  Parsons,  bred  a  shoemaker,  but  loving  reading, 
had  acquir'd  a  considerable  share  of  mathematics,  which 
he  first  studied  with  a  view  to  astrology,  that  he  afterwards 
laught  at  it.     He  also  became  surveyor-general. 

William  Maugridge,  a  joiner,  a  most  exquisite  mechanic, 
and  a  solid,  sensible  m.an. 

Hugh  Meredith,  Stephen  Potts,  and  George  Webb  I  have 
characteriz'd  before. 

Robert  Grace,  a  young  gentleman  of  some  fortune,  gen- 
erous, lively,  and  witty;  a  lover  of  punning  and  of  his 
friends. 

And  William  Coleman,  then  a  merchant's  clerk,  about 
my  age,  who  had  the  coolest,  clearest  head,  the  best  heart, 
and  the  exactest  morals  of  almost  any  man  I  ever  met  with. 
He  became  afterwards  a  merchant  of  great  note,  and  one 
of  our  provincial  judges.  Our  friendship  continued  without 
interruption  to  his  death,  upward  of  forty  years;  and  the 
club  continued  almost  as  long,  and  was  the  best  school  of 
philosophy,  morality,  and  politics  that  then  existed  in  the 
province;  for  our  queries,  which  were  read  the  week  pre- 
ceding their  discussion,  put  us  upon  reading  with  atten- 
tion upon  the  several  subjects,  that  we  might  speak  more 
to  the  purpose;   and  here,  too,  we  acquired  better  habits  of 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  61 

conversation,  every  thing  being  studied  in  our  rules  which 
might  prevent  our  disgusting  each  other.  From  hence  the 
long  continuance  of  the  club,  which  I  shall  have  frequent 
occasion  to  speak  further  of  hereafter. 

But  my  giving  this  account  of  it  here  is  to  show  something 
of  the  interest  I  had,  every  one  of  these  exerting  themselves 
in  recommending  business  to  us.  Breintnal  particularly 
procur'd  us  from  the  Quakers  the  printing  forty  sheets  of 
their  history,  the  rest  being  to  be  done  by  Keimer ;  and  upon 
this  we  work'd  exceedingly  hard,  for  the  price  was  low.  It 
was  a  folio,  pro  patria  size,  in  pica,  with  long  primer  notes. 
I  compos'd  of  it  a  sheet  a  day,  and  Meredith  worked  it  off 
at  press;  it  was  often  eleven  at  night,  and  sometimes  later, 
before  I  had  finished  my  distribution  for  the  next  day's 
work,  for  the  little  jobbs  sent  in  by  our  other  friends  now 
and  then  put  us  back.  But  so  determin'd  I  was  to  continue 
doing  a  sheet  a  day  of  the  folio,  that  one  night,  when, 
having  impos'd  my  forms,  I  thought  my  day's  work  over, 
one  of  them  by  accident  was  broken,  and  two  pages  reduced 
to  pi,  I  immediately  distributed  and  compos'd  it  over  again 
before  I  went  to  bed ;  and  this  industry,  visible  to  our  neigh- 
bors, began  to  give  us  character  and  credit;  particularly,  I 
was  told,  that  mention  being  made  of  the  new  printing-office 
at  the  merchants'  Every-night  club,  the  general  opinion  was 
that  it  must  fail,  there  being  already  two  printers  in  the 
place,  Keimer  and  Bradford;  but  Dr.  Baird  (whom  you  and 
I  saw  many  years  after  at  his  native  place,  St.  Andrew's 
in  Scotland)  gave  a  contrary  opinion :  "  For  the  industry 
of  that  Franklin,"  says  he,  "  is  superior  to  any  thing  I 
ever  saw  of  the  kind;  I  see  him  still  at  work  when  I  go 
home  from  club,  and  he  is  at  work  again  before  his  neigh- 
bors are  out  of  bed."  This  struck  the  rest,  and  we  soon 
after  had  offers  from  one  of  them  to  supply  us  with  sta- 
tionery; but  as  yet  we  did  not  chuse  to  engage  in  shop 
business. 

I  mention  this  industry  the  more  particularly  and  the 
more  freely,  tho'  it  seems  to  be  talking  in  my  own  praise, 
that  those  of  my  posterity,  who  shall  read  it,  may  know  the 
use  of  that  virtue,  when  they  see  its  effects  in  my  favour 
throughout  this  relation. 


62  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

George  Webb,  who  had  found  a  female  friend  that  lent 
him  wherewith  to  purchase  his  time  of  Keimer,  now  came 
to  offer  himself  as  a  journeyman  to  us.  We  could  not  then 
employ  him;  but  I  foolishly  let  him  know  as  a  secret  that 
I  soon  intended  to  begin  a  newspaper,  and  might  then  have 
work  for  him.  My  hopes  of  success,  as  I  told  him,  were 
founded  on  this,  that  the  then  only  newspaper,  printed  by 
Bradford,  was  a  paltry  thing,  wretchedly  manag'd,  no  way 
entertaining,  and  yet  was  profitable  to  him;  I  therefore 
thought  a  good  paper  would  scarcely  fail  of  good  encourage- 
ment. I  requested  Webb  not  to  mention  it;  but  he  told  it 
to  Keimer,  who  immediately,  to  be  beforehand  with  me, 
published  proposals  for  printing  one  himself,  on  which  Webb 
was  to  be  employ'd,  I  resented  this;  and,  to  counteract 
them,  as  I  could  not  yet  begin  our  paper,  I  wrote  several 
pieces  of  entertainment  for  Bradford's  paper,  under  the 
title  of  the  Busy  Body,  which  Breintnal  continu'd  some 
months.  By  this  means  the  attention  of  the  publick  was 
fixed  on  that  paper,  and  Keimer's  proposals,  which  we  bur- 
lesqu'd  and  ridicul'd,  were  disregarded.  He  began  his  paper, 
however,  and,  after  carrying  it  on  three  quarters  of  a  year, 
with  at  most  only  ninety  subscribers,  he  offered  it  to  me  for 
a  trifle;  and  I,  having  been  ready  some  time  to  go  on  with 
it,  took  it  in  hand  directly;  and  it  prov'd  in  a  few  years 
extremely  profitable  to  me. 

I  perceive  that  I  am  apt  to  speak  in  the  singular  number, 
though  our  partnership  still  continu'd;  the  reason  may  be 
that,  in  fact,  the  whole  management  of  the  business  lay  upon 
me.  Meredith  was  no  compositor,  a  poor  pressman,  and 
seldom  sober.  My  friends  lamented  my  connection  with  him, 
but  I  was  to  make  the  best  of  it. 

Our  first  papers  made  a  quite  different  appearance  from 
any  before  in  the  province ;  a  better  type,  and  better  printed ; 
but  som.e  spirited  remarks  of  my  writing,  on  the  dispute 
then  going  on  between  Governor  Burnet  and  the  Massa- 
chusetts Assembly,  struck  the  principal  people,  occasioned 
the  paper  and  the  manager  of  it  to  be  much  talk'd  of,  and 
in  a  few  weeks  brought  them  all  to  be  our  subscribers. 

Their  example  was  folLow'd  by  many,  and  our  number 
went  on  growing  continually.     This  was  one  of  the  first 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  63 

good  effects  of  my  having  learnt  a  little  to  scribble;  another 
was,  that  the  leading  men,  seeing  a  newspaper  now  in  the 
hands  of  one  who  could  also  handle  a  pen,  thought  it  con- 
venient to  oblige  and  encourage  me.  Bradford  still  printed 
the  votes,  and  laws,  and  other  publick  business.  He  had 
printed  an  address  of  the  House  to  the  governor,  in  a  coarse, 
blundering  manner,  we  reprinted  it  elegantly  and  correctly, 
and  sent  one  to  every  member.  They  were  sensible  of  the 
difference:  it  strengthened  the  hands  of  our  friends  in  the 
House,  and  they  voted  us  their  printers  for  the  year  ensuing. 

Among  my  friends  in  the  House  I  must  not  forget  Mr. 
Hamilton,  before  mentioned,  who  was  then  returned  from 
England,  and  had  a  seat  in  it.  He  interested  himself  for 
me  strongly  in  that  instance,  as  he  did  in  many  others  after- 
ward, continuing  his  patronage  till  his  death.® 

Mr.  Vernon,  about  this  time,  put  me  in  mind  of  the  debt 
I  ow'd  him,  but  did  not  press  me.  I  wrote  him  an  ingenuous 
letter  of  acknowledgment,  crav'd  his  forbearance  a  little 
longer,  which  he  allow'd  me,  and  as  soon  as  I  was  able,  I 
paid  the  principal  with  interest,  and  many  thanks;  so  that 
erratum  was  in  some  degree  corrected. 

But  now  another  difficulty  came  upon  me  which  I  had 
never  the  least  reason  to  expect.  Mr.  Meredith's  father, 
who  was  to  have  paid  for  our  printing-house,  according  to 
the  expectations  given  me,  was  able  to  advance  only  one 
hundred  pounds  currency,  which  had  been  paid;  and  a 
hundred  more  was  due  to  the  merchant,  who  grew  impatient, 
and  su'd  us  all.  We  gave  bail,  but  saw  that,  if  the  money 
could  not  be  rais'd  in  time,  the  suit  must  soon  come  to  a 
judgment  and  execution,  and  our  hopeful  prospects  must, 
with  us,  be  ruined,  as  the  press  and  letters  must  be  sold  for 
payment,  perhaps  at  half  price. 

In  this  distress  two  true  friends,  whose  kindness  I  have 
never  forgotten,  nor  ever  shall  forget  while  I  can  remember 
any  thing,  came  to  me  separately,  unknown  to  each  other, 
and,  without  any  application  from  me,  offering  each  of  them 
to  advance  me  all  the  money  that  should  be  necessary  to 
enable  me  to  take  the  whole  business  upon  myself,  if  that 
should  be  practicable;  but  they  did  not  like  my  continuing 
•I  got  his  son  once    £500.— [Mar^.  note.J 


64  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

the  partnership  with  Meredith,  who,  as  they  said,  was  often 
seen  drunk  in  the  streets^  and  playing  at  low  games  in 
alehouses,  much  to  our  discredit.  These  two  friends  were 
William  Coleman  and  Robert  Grace.  I  told  them  I  could 
not  propose  a  separation  while  any  prospect  remain'd  of  the 
Merediths'  fulfilling  their  part  of  our  agreement,  because 
I  thought  myself  under  great  obligations  to  them  for  what 
they  had  done,  and  would  do  if  they  could;  but,  if  they 
finally  fail'd  in  their  performance,  and  our  partnership  must 
be  dissolv'd,  I  should  then  think  myself  at  liberty  to  accept 
the  assistance  of  my  friends. 

Thus  the  matter  rested  for  some  time,  when  I  said  to  my 
partner,  "  Perhaps  your  father  is  dissatisfied  at  the  part  you 
have  undertaken  in  this  affair  of  ours,  and  is  unwilling  to 
advance  for  you  and  me  what  he  would  for  you  alone.  If 
that  is  the  case,  tell  me,  and  I  will  resign  the  whole  to  ycu, 
and  go  about  my  business."  "  No,"  said  he,  "  my  father  has 
really  been  disappointed,  and  is  really  unable;  and  I  am 
unwilling  to  distress  him  farther.  I  see  this  is  a  business 
I  am  not  fit  for.  I  was  bred  a  farmer,  and  it  was  a  folly 
in  me  to  come  to  town,  and  put  myself,  at  thirty  years  of 
age,  an  apprentice  to  learn  a  new  trade.  Many  of  our 
Welsh  people  are  going  to  settle  in  North  Carolina,  where 
land  is  cheap.  I  am  inclin'd  to  go  with  them,  and  follow 
my  old  emiployment.  You  may  find  friends  to  assist  you. 
If  you  will  take  the  debts  of  the  company  upon  you ;  return 
to  my  father  the  hundred  pound  he  has  advanced;  pay  my 
little  personal  debts,  and  give  me  thirty  pounds  and  a  new 
saddle,  I  will  relinquish  the  partnership,  and  leave  the  whole 
in  your  hands,"  I  agreed  to  this  proposal :  it  was  drawn  up 
in  writing,  sign'd,  and  seal'd  immediately.  I  gave  him  what 
he  demanded,  and  he  went  soon  after  to  Carolina,  from 
whence  he  sent  me  next  year  two  long  letters,  containing  the 
best  account  that  had  been  given  of  that  country,  the  climate, 
the  soil,  husbandry,  etc.,  for  in  those  matters  he  was  very 
judicious.  I  printed  them  in  the  papers,  and  they  gave  great 
satisfaction  to  the  publick. 

As  soon  as  he  was  gone,  I  recurr'd  to  my  two  friends; 
and  because  I  would  not  give  an  unkind  preference  to  either, 
I  took  half  of  what  each  had  offered  and  I  wanted  of  one, 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  65 

and  half  o£  the  other;  paid  off  the  company's  debts,  and  went 
on  with  the  business  in  my  own  name,  advertising  that  the 
partnership  was  dissolved,  I  think  this  was  in  or  about  the 
year  1729. 

About  this  time  there  was  a  cry  among  the  people  for 
more  paper  money,  only  fifteen  thousand  pounds  being  extant 
in  the  province,  and  that  soon  to  be  sunk.  The  wealthy 
inhabitants  oppos'd  any  addition,  being  against  all  paper 
currency,  from  an  apprehension  that  it  would  depreciate, 
as  it  had  done  in  New  England,  to  the  prejudice  of  all 
creditors.  We  had  discuss'd  this  point  in  our  Junto,  where 
I  was  on  the  side  of  an  addition,  being  persuaded  that  the 
first  small  sum  struck  in  1723  had  done  much  good  by 
increasing  the  trade,  employment,  and  number  of  inhabitants 
in  the  province,  since  I  now  saw  all  the  old  houses  inhabited, 
and  many  new  ones  building:  whereas  I  remembered  well, 
that  when  I  first  walk'd  about  the  streets  of  Philadelphia, 
eating  my  roll,  I  saw  most  of  the  houses  in  Walnut-street, 
between  Second  and  Front  streets,  with  bills  on  their  doors, 
"  To  be  let " ;  and  many  likewise  in  Chestnut-street  and 
other  streets,  which  m.ade  me  then  think  the  inhabitants  of 
the  city  were  deserting  it  one  after  another. 

Our  debates  possess'd  me  so  fully  of  the  subject,  that  I 
wrote  and  printed  an  anonymous  pamiphlet  on  it,  entitled 
"  The  Nature  and  Necessity  of  a  Paper  Currency."  It  was 
well  receiv'd  by  the  common  people  in  general;  but  the 
rich  men  dislik'd  it,  for  it  increas'd  and  strengthen'd  the 
clamor  for  more  money,  and  they  happening  to  have  no 
writers  among  them  that  were  able  to  answer  it,  their  oppo- 
sition slacken'd,  and  the  point  was  carried  by  a  majority 
in  the  House.  My  friends  there,  who  conceiv'd  I  had  been 
of  some  service,  thought  fit  to  reward  me  by  employing  me 
in  printing  the  money;  a  very  profitable  jobb  and  a  great 
help  to  me.  This  was  another  advantage  gain'd  by  my  being 
able  to  Vv^rite. 

The  utility  of  this  currency  became  by  time  and  experience 
so  evident  as  never  afterwards  to  be  much  disputed;  so 
that  it  grew  soon  to  fifty-five  thousand  pounds,  and  in  1739 
to  eighty  thousand  pounds,  since  which  it  arose  during  war 
to  upwards  of  three   hundred  and   fifty  thousand   pounds 

3  HC— Vol.  1 


S6  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN' 

trade,  building,  and  inhabitants  all  the  while  increasing,  tho* 
I  now  think  there  are  limits  beyond  which .  the  quantity  may 
be  hurtful. 

I  soon  after  obtain'd,  thro'  my  friend  Hamilton,  the  print- 
ing of  the  Newcastle  paper  money,  another  profitable  jobb 
as  I  then  thought  it;  small  things  appearing  great  to  those 
in  small  circumstances;  and  these,  to  me,  were  really  great 
advantages,  as  they  were  great  encouragements^  He  pro- 
cured for  me,  also,  the  printing  of  the  laws  and  votes  of 
that  government,  which  continu'd  in  my  hands  as  long  as 
I  followed  the  business, 

I  now  open'd  a  little  stationer's  shop,  I  had  in  it  blanks 
of  all  sorts,  the  correctest  that  ever  appeard  among  us, 
being  assisted  in  that  by  my  friend  BreintnaL  I  had  also 
paper,  parchment,  chapmen's  books,  etc.  One  Whitemash, 
a  compositor  I  had  known  in  London,  an  excellent  workman, 
now  came  to  me^  and  work'd  with  me  constantly  and  dili- 
gently;   and  I  took  an  apprentice,  the  son  of  Aquila  Rose. 

I  began  now  gradually  to  pay  off  the  debt  I  was  under 
for  the  printing-house.  In  order  to  secure  my  credit  and 
character  as  a  tradesman,  I  took  care  not  only  to  be  in 
reality  industrious  and  frugal,  but  to  avoid  all  appearances 
to  the  contrary.  I  drest  plainly;  I  was  seen  at  no  places 
of  idle  diversion.  I  never  v/ent  out  a  fishing  or  shooting;  a 
book,  indeed,  sometimes  debauch'd  m^e  from  my  work,  but 
that  was  seldom,  snug,  and  gave  no  scandal ;  and,  to  show 
that  I  was  not  above  my  business,  I  sometimes  brought  home 
the  paper  I  purchased  at  the  stores  thro'  the  streets  on  a 
wheelbarrow.  Thus  being  esteem'd  an  industrious,  thriving 
young  man,  and  paying  duly  for  what  I  bought,  the  mer- 
chants who  imported  stationery  solicited  my  custom;  others 
proposed  supplying  me  with  books,  and  I  went  on  swim- 
mingly. In  the  mean  time,  Keimer's  credit  and  business 
declining  daily,  he  was  at  last  forc'd  to  sell  his  printing- 
house  to  satisfy  his  creditors.  He  went  to  Barbadoes,  and 
there  lived  some  years  in  very  poor  circumstances. 

His  apprentice,  David  Harry,  whom  I  had  instructed 
while  I  work'd  with  him,  set  up  in  his  place  at  Philadelphia, 
having  bought  his  materials.  I  was  at  first  apprehensive 
o£  a  powerful  rival  in  Harry,  as  his  friends  were  very  able^ 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  67 

and  had  a  good  deal  of  interesto  I  therefore  propos'd  a 
partnership  to  him,  which  he,  fortunately  for  me,  rejected 
with  scorn.  He  was  very  proudj  dress'd  like  a  gentleBian,  liv'd 
expensively,  took  much  divermon  and  pleasure  abroa^d,  ran 
in  debt,  and  neglected  his  business ;  upon  which,  all  bus.iriess 
left  him;  and,  finding  nothing  to  do,  he  followed  Keimer  to 
Barbadoes,  taking  the  printing-house  with  him.  There  this 
apprentice  employ'd  his  former  master  as  a  journeyman; 
they  quarrel'd  often;  Harry  went  continually  behindhand^ 
and  at  length  was  forc'd  to  sell  his  types  and  return  to  his 
country  work  in  Pensilvania.  The  person  that  bought  them 
employ'd  Keimer  to  use  them,  but  in  a  few  years  he  died. 

There  remained  now  no  competitor  with  me  at  Phila- 
delphia but  the  old  one,  Bradford;  who  was  rich  and  easy, 
did  a  little  printing  now  and  then  by  straggling  hands,  but 
was  not  very  anxious  about  the  business.  However,  as  he 
kept  the  post-office,  it  was  imagined  he  had  better  oppor- 
tunities of  obtaining  news;  his  paper  was  thought  a  better 
distributer  of  advertisements  than  mine,  and  therefore  had 
many  more,  which  was  a  profitable  thing  to  him,  and  a 
disadvantage  to  me;  for,  tho'  I  did  indeed  receive  and  send 
papers  by  the  post,  yet  the  publick  opinion  was  otherwise, 
for  what  I  did  send  was  by  bribing  the  riders,  who  took 
them  privately,  Bradford  being  unkind  enough  to  forbid  it, 
which  occasion'd  some  resentment  on  my  part ;  and  I  thought 
so  meanly  of  him  for  it,  that,  when  I  afterward  came  into 
his  situation,  I  took  care  never  to  imitate  it. 

I  had  hitherto  continued  to  board  with  Godfrey,  who  lived 
in  part  of  my  house  with  his  wife  and  children,  and  had 
one  side  of  the  shop  for  his  glazier's  business,  tho'  he  worked 
littlCy  being  always  absorbed  in  his  mathematics.  Mrs. 
Godfrey  projected  a  match  for  me  with  a  relation's  daughter, 
took  opportunities  of  bringing  us  often  together,  till  S  serious 
courtship  on  my  part  ensu'd,  the  girl  being  in  hergdf  very 
deservingo  The  old  folks  encourag'd  me  by  continual  invi- 
tations to  supper,  and  by  leaving  us  together,  till  at  length 
it  was  time  to  explain.  Mrs.  Godfrey  manag'd  our  little 
treaty.  I  let  her  know  that  I  expected  as  m-uch  money  with 
their  daughter  as  would  pay  off  my  remaining  debt  for  the 
printing-house,   which   I   believe    was  not  then   above  a 


68  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

hundred  pounds.  She  brought  me  word  they  had  no  sucH 
sum  to  spare;  I  said  they  might  mortgage  their  house  in 
the  loan-office.  The  answer  to  this,  after  some  days,  was, 
that  they  did  not  approve  the  match;  that,  on  inquiry  of 
Bradford,  they  had  been  inform'd  the  printing  business  was 
not  a  profitable  one;  the  types  would  soon  be  worn  out, 
and  more  wanted;  that  S.  Keimer  and  D.  Harry  had  failed 
one  after  the  other,  and  I  should  probably  soon  follow  them; 
and,  therefore,  I  was  forbidden  the  house,  and  the  daughter 
shut  up. 

Whether  this  was  a  real  change  of  sentiment  or  only 
artifice,  on  a  supposition  of  our  being  too  far  engaged  in 
affection  to  retract,  and  therefore  that  we  should  steal  a 
marriage,  which  would  leave  them  at  liberty  to  give  or 
withhold  what  they  pleas'd,  I  know  not;  but  I  suspected 
the  latter,  resented  it,  and  went  no  more.  Mrs.  Godfrey 
brought  me  afterward  some  more  favorable  accounts  of 
their  disposition,  and  would  have  drawn  me  on  again;  but 
I  declared  absolutely  my  resolution  to  have  nothing  more 
to  do  with  that  family.  This  was  resented  by  the  Godfreys ; 
we  differed,  and  they  removed,  leaving  me  the  whole  house, 
and  I  resolved  to  take  no  more  inmates. 

But  this  affair  having  turned  my  thoughts  to  marriage, 
I  look'd  round  me  and  m.ade  overtures  of  acquaintance  in 
other  places;  but  soon  found  that,  the  business  of  a  printer 
being  generally  thought  a  poor  one,  I  was  not  to  expect 
money  with  a  wife,  unless  with  such  a  one  as  I  should  not 
otherwise  think  agreeable.  In  the  mean  time,  that  hard-to- 
be-governed  passion  of  youth  hurried  me  frequently  into 
intrigues  with  low  women  that  fell  in  my  way,  which  were 
attended  with  some  expense  and  great  inconvenience,  be- 
sides a  continual  risque  to  my  health  by  a  distemper  which 
of  all  things  I  dreaded,  though  by  great  good  luck  I  escaped 
it»  A  friendly  correspondence  as  neighbors  and  old  ac- 
quaintances had  continued  between  me  and  Mrs,  Read's 
family,  who  all  had  a  regard  for  me  from  the  time  of  my 
first  lodging  in  their  house.  I  was  often  invited  there  and 
consulted  in  their  affairs,  wherein  I  sometimes  was  of  serv- 
ice. I  piti'd  poor  Miss  Read's  unfortunate  situation,  who 
was  generally  dejected,  seldom  cheerful,  and  avoided  com- 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  69 

pany.  I  considered  my  giddiness  and  inconstancy  when  in 
London  as  in  a  great  degree  the  cause  of  her  unhappiness, 
tho'  the  mother  was  good  enough  to  think  the  fault  m.ore 
her  own  than  mine,  as  she  had  prevented  our  marrying 
before  I  went  thither,  and  persuaded  the  other  match  in  my 
absence.  Our  mutual  affection  was  revived,  but  there  were 
now  great  objections  to  our  union.  The  match  was  indeed 
looked  upon  as  invalid,  a  preceding  wife  being  said  to  be 
living  in  England;  but  this  could  not  easily  be  prov'd, 
because  of  the  distance;  and,  tho'  there  was  a  report  of 
his  death,  it  was  not  certain.  Then,  tho'  it  should  be  true, 
he  had  left  many  debts,  vv'hich  his  successor  might  be  call'd 
upon  to  pay.  We  ventured,  however,  over  all  these  diffi- 
culties, and  I  took  her  to  wife,  September  ist,  1730,  None 
of  the  inconveniences  happened  that  we  had  apprehended; 
she  proved  a  good  and  faithful  helpmate,  assisted  me  much 
by  attending  the  shop;  we  throve  together,  and  have  ever 
mutually  endeavored  to  make  each  other  happy.  Thus  I 
corrected  that  great  erratum  as  well  as  I  could. 

About  this  time,  our  club  meeting,  not  at  a  tavern,  but 
in  a  little  room  of  Mr,  Grace's,  set  apart  for  that  purpose, 
a  proposition  was  made  by  me,  that,  since  our  books  were 
often  referr'd  to  in  our  disquisitions  upon  the  queries,  it 
might  be  convenient  to  vis  to  have  them  altogether  where 
we  met,  that  upon  occasion  they  might  be  consulted;  and 
by  thus  clubbing  our  books  to  a  common  library,  we  should, 
while  we  lik'd  to  keep  them  together,  have  each  of  us  the 
advantage  of  using  the  books  of  all  the  other  members, 
which  would  be  nearly  as  beneficial  as  if  each  owned  the 
whole.  It  was  lik'd  and  agreed  to,  and  we  fill'd  one  end 
of  the  room  with  such  books  as  we  could  best  spare.  The 
number  was  not  so  great  as  we  expected;  and  tho'  they  had 
been  of  great  use,  yet  some  inconveniences  occurring  for 
want  of  due  care  of  them,  the  collection,  after  about  a  year, 
v/as  separated,  and  each  took  his  books  home  again. 

And  now  I  set  on  foot  my  first  project  of  a  public  nature, 
that  for  a  subscription  library.  I  drew  up  the  proposals, 
got  them  put  into  form  by  our  great  scrivener,  Brockdeii, 
and,  by  the  help  of  my  fri.ends  in  the  Junto,  procured  fifty 
subscribers  of  forty  shillings  each  to  begin  wit.h,  and  ten 


70  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

shillings  a  year  for  fifty  years,  the  term  our  company  was 
to  continue.  We  afterwards  obtain'd  a  charter,  the  com- 
pany being  increased  to  one  hundred:  this  was  the  mother 
of  all  the  North  American  subscription  libraries,  now  so 
numerous.  It  is  become  a  great  thing  itself,  and  continually 
increasing.  These  libraries  have  improved  the  general  con- 
versation of  the  Americans,  made  the  common  tradesmen 
and  farmers  as  intelligent  as  most  gentlemen  from  other 
countries,  and  perhaps  have  contributed  in  some  degree  to 
the  stand  so  generally  miade  throughout  the  colonies  in 
defense  of  their  privileges. 

Memo.  Thus  far  was  written  with  the  intention  express'd 
in  the  beginning  and  therefore  contains  several  little  family 
anecdotes  of  no  importance  to  others.  What  follows  was 
written  m.any  years  after  in  compliance  with  the  advice  con- 
tain'd  in  these  letters,  and  accordingly  intended  for  the  public. 
The  affairs  of  the  Revolution  occasion'd  the  interruption. 


%etter  from  Mr.  'Ahel  James,  with  Notes  of  my  Life 
{received  in  Paris'). 


M 


""^  *~Y  Dear  and  Honored  Friend:  I  have  often  been 
desirous  of  writing  to  thee,  but  could  not  be  recon- 
ciled to  the  thought  that  the  letter  might  fall  into 
the  hands  of  the  British,  lest  some  printer  or  busy-body 
should  publish  some  part  of  the  contents,  and  give  our  friend 
pain,  and  myself  censure. 

"  Some  time  since  there  fell  into  my  hands,  to  my  great 
joy,  about  twenty-three  sheets  in  thy  ov/n  handwriting, 
containing  an  account  of  the  parentage  and  life  of  thyself, 
directed  to  thy  son,  ending  in  the  year  1730,  with  which 
there  were  notes,  likewise  in  thy  writing;  a  copy  of  which 
I  inclose,  in  hopes  it  may  be  a  m_eans,  if  thou  continued  it 
up  to  a  later  period,  that  the  first  and  latter  part  may  be 
put  together;  and  if  it  is  not  yet  continued,  I  hope  thee 
will  not  delay  it.  Life  is  uncertain,  as  the  preacher  tells 
us;  and  what  will  the  world  say  if  kind,  humane,  and 
benevolent  Ben.  Franklin  should  leave  his  friends  and  the 
world  deprived  of  so  pleasing  and  profitable  a  work ;  a  work 
which  would  be  useful  and  entertaining  not  only  to  a  few, 
but  to  millions?  The  influence  writings  under  that  class 
have  on  the  minds  of  youth  is  very  great,  and  has  nowhere 
appeared  to  me  so  plain,  as  in  our  public  friend's  journals. 
It  almost  insensibly  leads  the  youth  into  the  resolution  of 
endeavoring  to  become  as  good  and  eminent  as  the  journalist. 
Should  thine,  for  instance,  when  published  (and  I  think  it 
could  not  fail  of  it),  lead  the  youth  to  equal  the  industry 
and  temperance  of  thy  early  youth,  what  a  blessing  with 
that  class  would  such  a  work  be!  I  know  of  no  character 
living,  nor  many  of  them  put  together,  who  has  so  much  in 
his  po\ver  as  thyself  to  promote  a  greater  spirit  of  industry 

71. 


72  BENJAMIN  FRATSTEXIN 

aa4  early  attention  to  business,  frngality,  and  temperance 
with  the  American  youth.  Not  that  I  think  the  work  v/ould 
have  no  other  merit  and  use  in  the  world,  far  from  it; 
but  th&  first  is  of  such  vast  importance  that  I  know  nothing 
that  can  equal  it." 

The   foregoing   letter   and  the   minutes   accompanying  it 
being  shown  to  a  friend,  I  received  from  him  the  following: 

■Letter  from  Mr.  Benjamin   Vaughan. 

"  Paris,  January  31,  1783. 
"  My  Dearest  Sir  :    When  I  had  read  over  your  sheets 
oi  minutes  of  the  principal  incidents  of  your  life,  recovered 
for  you  by  your  Quaker  acquaintance,  I  told  you  I  would 
send  you  a  letter  expressing  my  reasons  why  I  thought  it 
would  be  useful  to  complete  and  publish  it  as  he  desired. 
Various  concerns  have  for  some  time  past  prevented  this 
letter  being  written,   and   I   do  not  knov/  whether  it  was 
worth  any  expectation;  happening  to  be  at  leisure,  however, 
at  present,  I  shall  by  writing,  at  least  interest  and  instruct 
myself;    but  as  the  terms  I  am  inclined  to  use  may  tend 
to  offend  a  person  of  your  manners,  I  shall  only  tell  you 
how  I  would  address  any  other  person,  who  was  as  good 
and  as  great  as  yourself,  but  less  diffident.    I  would  say  to 
him.  Sir,  I  solicit  the  history  of  your  life  from  the  following 
motives:    Your  history  is  so  remarkable,  that  if  you  do  not 
give  it,   somebody  else  will  certainly  give  it;  and  perhaps 
so  as  nearly  to  do  as  much  harm,  as  your  own  management 
of  the  thing  might  do  good.     It  will  moreover  present   a 
table  of  the  internal  circumstances  of  your  country,  which 
will  very  much  tend  to  invite  to  it  settlers  of  virtuous  and 
manly  minds.     And  considering  the  eagerness  with  which 
such  information  is  sought  by  them,  and  the  extent  of  youf 
reputation,  I  do  not  know  of  a  more  efficacious  advertise- 
ment  than  your  biography  would  give.     All  that  has  hap- 
pened to  you  is  also  connected  with  the  detail  of  the  manners 
and  situation  of  a  rising  people;    and  in  this  respect  I  do 
not  think  that  the  writings  of   C^sar  and  Tacitus  can  be 
more   interesting  to   a   true   judge   of   human   nature   and 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  73 

society.  But  these,  sir,  are  small  reasons,  in  my  opinion, 
compared  with  the  chance  which  your  life  will  give  for 
the  forming  of  future  great  men;  and  in  conjunction  with 
your  Art  of  Virtue  (which  you  design  to  publish)  of  im- 
proving the  features  of  private  character,  and  consequently 
of  aiding  all  happiness,  both  public  and  domestic.  The  two 
works  I  allude  to,  sir,  will  in  particular  give  a  noble  rule 
and  example  of  self-education.  School  and  other  education 
constantly  proceed  upon  false  principles,  and  show  a  clumsy 
apparatus  pointed  at  a  false  mark;  but  your  apparatus  is 
simple,  and  the  mark  a  true  one;  and  while  parents  and 
young  persons  are  left  destitute  of  other  just  means  of 
estimating  and  becoming  prepared  for  a  reasonable  course  in 
life,  your  discovery  that  the  thing  is  in  many  a  man's 
private  power,  will  be  invaluable !  Influence  upon  the  private 
character,  late  in  life,  is  not  only  an  influence  late  in  life, 
but  a  weak  influence.  It  is  in  youth  that  we  plant  our 
chief  habits  and  prejudices;  it  is  in  youth  that  we  take  our 
party  as  to  profession,  pursuits  and  matrimony.  In  youth, 
therefore,  the  turn  is  given;  in  youth  the  education  even 
of  the  next  generation  is  given;  in  youth  the  private  and 
public  character  is  determined;  and  the  term  of  life  ex- 
tending but  from  youth  to  age,  life  ought  to  begin  well  from 
youth,  and  more  especially  before  we  take  our  party  as  to 
our  principal  objects.  But  your  biography  will  not  merely 
teach  self-education,  but  the  education  of  a  wise  man;  and 
the  wisest  man  will  receive  lights  and  improve  his  progress, 
by  seeing  detailed  the  conduct  of  another  wise  man.  And 
why  are  weaker  men  to  be  deprived  of  such  helps,  when  v/e 
see  our  race  has  been  blundering  on  in  the  dark,  almost 
without  a  guide  in  this  particular,  from  the  farthest  trace 
of  time?  Show  then,  sir,  how  much  is  to  be  done,  both  to 
sons  and  fathers;  and  invite  all  wise  men  to  become  like 
yourself,  and  other  men  to  become  wise.  When  we  see 
how  cruel  statesmen  and  warriors  can  be  to  the  hum.an  race, 
and  how  absurd  distinguished  m.en  can  be  to  their  ac- 
quaintance, it  will  be  instructive  to  observe  the  instances 
multiply  of  pacific,  acquiescing  manners;  and  to  find  how 
compatible  it  is  to  be  great  and  domestic,  enviable  and  yet 
good-humored. 


74  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

"The  little  private  incidents  which  you  will  also  have  to 
relate,  will  have  considerable  use,  as  we  want,  above  all 
things,  rules  of  prudence  in  ordinary  affairs;  and  it  will 
be  curious  to  see  how  you  have  acted  in  these.  It  will  be 
so  far  a  sort  of  key  to  life,  and  explain  many  things  that  all 
men  ought  to  have  once  explained  to  them,  to  give  them  a 
chance  of  becoming  wise  by  foresight.  The  nearest  thing 
to  having  experience  of  one's  own,  is  to  have  other  people's 
affairs  brought  before  us  in  a  shape  that  is  interesting; 
this  is  sure  to  happen  from  your  pen;  our  affairs  and 
management  will  have  an  air  of  simplicity  or  importance 
that  will  not  fail  to  strike;  and  I  am  convinced  3^ou  have 
conducted  them  with  as  much  originality  as  if  you  had  been 
conducting  discussions  in  politics  or  philosophy;  and  what 
more  worthy  of  experiments  and  system  (its  importance  and 
its  errors  considered)  than  human  life? 

"  Some  men  have  been  virtuous  blindly,  others  have  specu- 
lated fantastically,  and  others  have  been  shrewd  to  bad 
purposes;  but  you,  sir,  I  am  sure,  will  give  under  your 
hand,  nothing  but  what  is  at  the  same  moment,  wise,  prac- 
tical and  good.  Your  account  of  yourself  (for  I  suppose 
the  parallel  I  am  drawing  for  Dr.  Franklin,  will  hold  not 
only  in  point  of  character,  but  of  private  history)  will  show 
that  you  are  ashamed  of  no  origin;  a  thing  the  more  im- 
portant, as  you  prove  how  little  necessary  all  origin  is  to 
happiness,  virtue,  or  greatness.  As  no  end  likewise  happens 
without  a  means,  so  we  shall  find,  sir,  that  even  you  your- 
self fram.ed  a  plan  by  which  you  became  considerable;  but 
at  the  same  time  v/e  may  see  that  though  the  event  is  flat- 
tering, the  means  are  as  simple  as  wisdom  could  make 
them;  that  is,  depending  upon  nature,  virtue,  thought  and 
habit.  Another  thing  demonstrated  will  be  the  propriety  of 
every  man's  waiting  for  his  time  for  appearing  upon  the 
stage  of  the  world.  Our  sensations  being  very  much  fixed 
to  the  moment,  we  are  apt  to  forget  that  more  moments  are 
to  follow  the  first,  and  consequently  that  man  should  arrange 
his  conduct  so  as  to  suit  the  whole  of  a  life.  Your  attribu- 
tion appears  to  have  been  applied  to  your  life,  and  the 
passing  moments  of  it  have  been  enlivened  with  content 
and   enjoyment,   instead   of   being  tormented   with   foolish 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  75 

impatience  or  regrets.  Such  a  conduct  is  easy  for  those 
who  make  virtue  and  themselves  in  countenance  by  examples 
of  other  truly  great  men,  of  whom  patience  is  so  often 
the  characteristic.  Your  Quaker  correspondent,  sir  (for 
here  again  I  will  suppose  the  subject  of  my  letter  resem.bling 
Dr.  Franklin),  praised  your  frugality,  diligence  and  tem- 
perance, which  he  considered  as  a  pattern  for  all  youth; 
but  it  is  singular  that  he  should  have  forgotten  your  mod- 
esty and  your  disinterestedness,  without  which  you  never 
could  have  waited  for  your  advancement,  or  found  your 
situation  in  the  m.ean  time  comfortable;  which  is  a  strong 
lesson  to  show  the  poverty  of  glory  and  the  importance  of 
regulating  our  minds.  If  this  correspondent  had  known 
the  nature  of  your  reputation  as  well  as  I  do,  he  would  have 
said,  Your  former  writings  and  measures  would  secure  atten- 
tion to  your  Biography,  and  Art  of  Virtue ;  and  your  Biogra" 
phy  and  Art  of  Virtue,  in  return,  would  secure  attention 
to  them.  This  is  an  advantage  attendant  upon  a  various 
character,  and  which  brings  all  that  belongs  to  it  into 
greater  play;  and  it  is  the  more  useful,  as  perhaps  more 
persons  are  at  a  loss  for  the  means  of  improving  their 
minds  and  characters,  than  they  are  for  the  time  or  the 
inclination  to  do  it.  But  there  is  one  concluding  reflection, 
sir,  that  will  shew  the  use  of  your  life  as  a  mere  piece 
of  biography.  This  style  of  writing  seems  a  little  gone  out  of 
vogue,  and  yet  it  is  a  very  useful  one ;  and  your  specimen  of 
it  may  be  particularly  serviceable,  as  it  will  make  a  subject 
of  comparison  with  the  lives  of  various  public  cutthroats 
and  intriguers,  and  with  absurd  monastic  self -tormentors  or 
vain  literary  triflers.  If  it  encourages  m.ore  writings  of 
the  same  kind  with  your  own,  and  induces  more  men  to 
spend  lives  fit  to  be  written,  it  will  be  worth  all  Plutarch's 
Lives  put  together.  But  being  tired  of  figuring  to  myself 
a  character  of  which  every  feature  suits  only  one  man  in 
the  world,  without  giving  him  the  praise  of  it,  I  shall  end 
m.y  letter,  my  dear  Dr.  Franklin,  with  a  personal  applica- 
tion to  your  proper  self.  I  am  earnestly  desirous,  then,  my 
dear  sir,  that  you  should  let  the  world  into  the  traits  of 
your  genuine  character,  as  civil  broils  may  otherwise  tend 
to  disguise  or  traduce  it.    Considering  your  great  age,  the 


76  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

caution  o£  your  character,  and  j^^our  peculiar  style  of  think- 
ings it  is  not  likely  that  any  one  besides  yourself  can  be 
sufficiently  master  of  the  facts  of  your  life,  or  the  inten- 
tions of  your  mind.  Besides  all  this,  the  immense  revolu- 
tion of  the  present  period,  will  necessarily  turn  our  atten- 
tion towards  the  author  of  it,  and  when  virtuous  principles 
have  been  pretended  in  it,  it  will  be  highly  important  to 
shew  that  such  have  really  influenced;  and,  as  your  own 
•  character  vnll  be  the  principal  one  to  receive  a  scrutiny,  it 
is  proper  (even  for  its  effects  upon  your  vast  and  rising 
country,  as  well  as  upon  England  and  upon  Europe)  that 
it  should  stand  respectable  and  eternal.  For  the  furtherance 
of  human  happiness,  I  have  always  maintained  that  it  is 
necessary  to  prove  that  man  is  not  even  at  present  a  vicious 
and  detestable  animal;  and  still  more  to  prove  that  good 
management  may  greatly  amend  him;  and  it  is  for  much 
the  same  reason,  that  I  am  anxious  to  see  the  opinion 
established,  that  there  are  fair  characters  existing  among 
the  individuals  of  the  race;  for  the  moment  that  all  m.en, 
without  exception,  shall  be  conceived  abandoned,  good  people 
will  cease  efforts  deemed  to  be  hopeless,  and  perhaps  think 
of  taking  their  share  in  the  scramble  of  life,  or  at  least  of 
making  it  comfortable  principally  for  themselves.  Take  then, 
my  dear  sir,  this  work  most  speedily  into  hand :  shew  your- 
self good  as  you  are  good;  temperate  as  you  are  temperate; 
and  above  all  things,  prove  yourself  as  one,  who  from  your 
infancy  have  loved  justice,  liberty  and  concord,  in  a  way 
that  has  made  it  natural  and  consistent  for  you  to  have 
acted,  as  we  have  seen  you  act  in  the  last  seventeen  years 
of  your  life.  Let  Englishmen  be  made  not  only  to  respect, 
but  even  to  love  you.  When  they  think  well  of  individuals 
in  your  native  country,  they  will  go  nearer  to  thinking 
well  of  your  country;  and  when  your  countrymen  see  them- 
selves well  thought  of  by  Englishmen,  they  v/ill  go  nearer 
to  thinking  well  of  England.  Extend  your  views  even 
further ;  do  not  stop  at  those  who  speak  the  English  tongue, 
but  after  having  settled  so  many  points  in  nature  and 
politics,  think  of  bettering  the  whole  race  of  men.  As  I 
have  not  read  any  part  of  the  life  in  question,  but  know 
ionly  the  character  that  lived  it.  I  write  somewhat  at  hazard. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  77 

I  am  sure,  however,  that  the  life  and  the  treatise  I  allude 
to  (on  the  Art  of  Virtue)  will  necessarily  fulfil  the  chief 
of  my  expectations;  and  still  more  .so  if  you  take  up  the 
measure  of  suiting  these  performances  to  the  several  views 
above  stated.  Should  they  even  prove  unsuccessful  in  all 
that  a  sanguine  admirer  of  yours  hopes  from  them,  you 
will  at  least  have  fram.ed  pieces  to  interest  the  human 
mind;  and  whoever  gives  a  feeling  of  pleasure  that  is 
innocent  to  man,  has  added  so  much  to  the  fair  side  of  a 
life  otherwise  too  much  darkened  by  anxiety  and  too  much 
injured  by  pain.  In  the  hope,  therefore,  that  you  will 
listen  to  the  prayer  addressed  to  you  in  this  letter,  I  beg 
to  subscribe  myself,  my  dearest  sir,  etc.,  etc., 

"  Signed,  Benj.  Vaughan." 


Continuation  of  the  Account  of  my  Life,  begun  at 
Passy,  near  Paris,  1784. 

It  is  some  time  since  I  receiv'd  the  above  letters,  but  I 
have  been  too  busy  till  now  to  think  of  complying  with  the 
request  they  contain.  It  might,  too,  be  much  better  done 
if  I  were  at  home  among  my  papers,  which  would  aid  my 
memory,  and  help  to  ascertain  dates;  but  my  return  being 
uncertain,  and  having  just  now  a  little  leisure,  I  will  en- 
deavor to  recollect  and  write  what  I  can;  if  I  live  to  get 
home,  it  may  there  be  corrected  and  improv'd. 

Not  having  any  copy  here  of  what  is  already  written,  I 
know  not  whether  an  account  is  given  of  the  means  I  used 
to  establish  the  Philadelphia  public  library,  which,  from  a 
small  beginning,  is  now  become  so  considerable,  though 
I  remember  to  have  come  down  to  near  the  time  of  that 
transaction  (1730).  I  will  therefore  begin  here  with  an 
account  of  it,  which  may  be  struck  out  if  found  to  have 
been  already  given. 

At  the  time  I  establish'd  myself  in  Pennsylvania,  there 
was  not  a  good  bookseller's  shop  in  any  of  the  colonies  to 
the  southward  of  Boston.  In  New  York  and  Philad'a  the 
printers  v/ere  indeed  stationers;  they  sold  only  paper,  etc., 
almanacs,  ballads,  and  a  few  common  school-books.    Those 


78  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

who  lov'd  reading  were  oblig'd  to  send  for  tlieir  books 
from  England;  the  members  of  the  Junto  had  each  a  few. 
We  had  left  the  alehouse,  where  we  first  met,  and  hired 
a  room  to  hold  our  club  in.  I  propos'd  that  we  should  all 
of  us  bring  our  books  to  that  room,  where  they  would  not 
only  be  ready  to  consult  in  our  conferences,  but  become  a 
common  benefit,  each  of  us  being  at  liberty  to  borrow 
such  as  he  wish'd  to  read  at  home.  This  was  accordingly 
done,  and  for  some  time  contented  us. 

Finding  the  advantage  of  this  little  collection,  I  propos'd 
to  render  the  benefit  from  books  more  common,  by  commenc- 
ing a  public  subscription  library.  I  drew  a  sketch  of  the 
plan  and  rules  that  would  be  necessary^  and  got  a  skilful 
conveyancer,  Mr.  Charles  Brockden,  to  put  the  whole  in 
form  of  articles  of  agreement  to  be  subscribed,  by  which 
each  subscriber  engag'd  to  pay  a  certain  sum  down  for  the 
first  purchase  of  books,  and  an  annual  contribution  for 
increasing  them.  So  few  were  the  readers  at  that  time  in 
Philadelphia,  and  the  majority  of  us  so  poor,  that  I  was 
not  able,  with  great  industry,  to  find  more  than  fifty  persons, 
mostly  young  tradesmen,  willing  to  pay  down  for  this  pur- 
pose forty  shillings  each,  and  ten  shillings  per  annum.  On 
this  little  fund  we  began.  The  books  were  imported;  the 
library  was  opened  one  day  in  the  week  for  lending  to  the 
subscribers,  on  their  promissory  notes  to  pay  double  the 
value  if  not  duly  returned.  The  institution  soon  mani- 
fested its  utility,  was  imitated  by  other  towns,  and  in  other 
provinces.  The  libraries  were  augmented  by  donations; 
reading  became  fashionable;  and  our  people,  having  no 
publick  amusements  to  divert  their  attention  from  study, 
became  better  acquainted  with  books,  and  in  a  few  years 
were  observ'd  by  strangers  to  be  better  instructed  and  more 
intelligent  than  people  of  the  same  rank  generally  are  in 
other  countries. 

When  we  were  about  to  sign  the  above-mentioned  ar- 
ticles, which  were  to  be  binding  upon  us,  our  heirs,  etc., 
for  fifty  years,  Mr.  Brockden,  the  scrivener,  said  to  us, 
"  You  are  young  men,  but  it  is  scarcely  probable  that 
any  of  you  will  live  to  see  the  expiration  of  the  term  fix'd 
in  the  instrument/'     A  number  of  us,  however,  are  yet 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  79 

living;  but  the  instrument  was  after  a  few  years  rendered 
null  by  a  charter  that  incorporated  and  gave  perpetuity  to 
the  company. 

The  objections  and  reluctances  I  met  with  in  soliciting 
the   subscriptions,   made   me   soon   feel   the   impropriety   of 
presenting  one's  self  as  the  proposer  of  any  useful  project, 
that   might    be    supposed   to    raise    one's    reputation    in   the 
smallest  degree  above  that  of  one's  neighbors,  when  one  has 
need  of  their  assistance  to  accomplish  that  project.    I  there- 
fore put  myself  as  much  as  I  could  out  of  sight,  and  stated 
it  as  a  scheme  of  a  number  of  friends,  who  had  requested 
me  to  go  about  and  propose  it  to  such  as  they  thought  lovers 
of  reading.    In  this  way  my  affair  went  on  more  smoothly, 
and  I  ever  after  practis'd  it  on  such  occasions;    and,  from 
my   frequent   successes,   can   heartily   recommend   it.     The 
present   little  sacrifice   of  your  vanity   will   afterwards  be 
amply  repaid.     If  it  remains  a  while  uncertain  to  whom 
the  merit  belongs,  some  one  more  vain  than  yourself  will 
be   encouraged  to   claim   it^   and  then   even   envy   will   be 
disposed  to  do  you  justice  by  plucking  those  assumed  feathers, 
and  restoring  them  to  their  right  owner. 

This  library  afforded  me  the  means  of  improvement  by 
constant  study,  for  which  I  set  apart  an  hour  or  two  each 
day,  and  thus  repair'd  in  some  degree  the  loss  of  the  learned 
education  my  father  once  intended  for  me.  Reading  was 
th«  only  amusement  I  allow'd  myself.  I  spent  no  time  in 
taverns,  games,  or  frolicks  of  any  kind;  and  my  industry 
in  my  business  continu'd  as  indefatigable  as  it  was  necessary. 
I  was  indebted  for  my  printing-house ;  I  had  a  young  family 
coming  on  to  be  educated,  and  I  had  to  contend  with  for 
business  two  printers,  who  v/ere  established  in  the  place  • 
before  me.  My  circumistances,  however,  grew  daily  easier. 
My  original  habits  of  frugality  continuing,  and  my  father 
having,  among  his  instructions  to  me  when  a  boy,  frequently 
repeated  a  proverb  of  Solomon,  "  Seest  thou  a  man  diligent 
in  his  calling,  he  shall  stand  before  kings,  he  shall  not  stand 
before  mean  men,"  I  from  thence  considered  industry  as  a 
means  of  obtaining  wealth  and  distinction,  which  encourag'd 
me,  tho*  I  did  not  think  that  I  should  ever  literally  stand 
before  kings,  which^  however^  has  since  happened;  for  I  have 


80  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

stood  before  five,  and  even  had  the  honor  of  sitting  down 
with  one,  the  King  of  Denmark,  to  dinner. 

We  have  an  English  proverb  that  says,  "He  that  would 
thrive,  must  ask  his  wife."  It  was  lucky  for  me  that  I  had 
one  as  much  dispos'd  to  industry  and  frugality  as  myself. 
She  assisted  me  cheerfully  in  my  business,  folding  and  stitch- 
ing pamphlets,  tending  shop,  purchasing  old  linen  rags  for 
the  papermakers,  etc.,  etc.  We  kept  no  idle  servants,  our 
table  was  plain  and  simple,  our  furniture  of  the  cheapest. 
For  instance,  my  breakfast  was  a  long  time  bread  and  milk 
(no  tea),  and  I  ate  it  out  of  a  twopenny  earthen  porringer, 
with  a  pewter  spoon.  But  mark  how  luxury  will  enter 
families,  and  make  a  progress,  in  spite  of  principle:  being 
calPd  one  morning  to  breakfast,  I  found  it  in  a  China  bov/1, 
with  a  spoon  of  silver !  They  had  been  bought  for  me  with- 
out my  knowledge  by  my  wife,  and  had  cost  her  the  enormous 
sum  of  three-and-twenty  shillings,  for  which  she  had  no  other 
excuse  or  apology  to  make,  but  that  she  thought  her  husband 
deserv'd  a  silver  spoon  and  China  bowl  as  well  as  any  of  his 
neighbors.  This  was  the  first  appearance  of  plate  and  China 
in  our  house,  which  afterward,  in  a  course  of  years,  as  our 
wealth  increas'd,  augmented  gradually  to  several  hundred 
pounds  in  value. 

I  had  been  religiously  educated  as  a  Presbyterian;  and 
tho'  some  of  the  dogmas  of  that  persuasion,  such  as  the 
eternal  decrees  of  God,  election,  reprobation,  etc.,  appeared 
to  me  unintelligible,  others  doubtful,  and  I  early  absented 
myself  from  the  public  assemblies  of  the  sect,  Sunday  being 
ttiy  studying  day,  I  never  was  without  some  religious  prin- 
ciples. I  never  doubted,  for  instance,  the  existence  of  the 
Deity;  that  he  made  the  world,  and  govern'd  it  by  his 
Providence;  that  the  most  acceptable  service  of  God  was 
the  doing  good  to  man;  that  our  souls  are  immortal;  and 
that  all  crime  will  be  punished,  and  virtue  rewarded,  either 
here  or  hereafter.  These  I  esteem'd  the  essentials  of  every 
religion;  and,  being  to  be  found  in  all  the  religions  we  had 
in  our  country,  I  respected  them  all,  tho'  with  different 
degrees  of  respect,  as  I  found  them  more  or  less  mix'd  with 
other  articles,  which,  without  any  tendency  to  inspire,  pro- 
mote, or  confirm  morality,  serv'd  principally  to  divide  uSj, 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  81 

an<3  make  us  unfriendly  to  one  another.  This  respect  to  all, 
>vith  an  opinion  that  the  worst  had  some  good  effects,  induc'd 
me  to  avoid  all  discourse  that  might  tend  to  lessen  the  good 
opinion  another  might  have  of  his  own  religion;  and  as  our 
province  increas'd  in  people,  and  new  places  of  worship  were 
continually  wanted,  and  generally  erected  by  voluntary  con- 
tributions, m-y  mite  for  such  purpose,  whatever  miight  be  the 
sect,  was  never  refused. 

Tho'  I  seldom  attended  any  pubHc  worship,  I  had  still  an 
opinion  of  its  propriety,  and  of  its  utility  when  rightly  con- 
ducted, and  I  regularly  paid  my  annual  subscription  for  the 
support  of  the  only  Presbyterian  minister  or  meeting  we  had 
in  Philadelphia.  He  us'd  to  visit  me  sometimes  as  a  friend, 
and  admonish  me  to  attend  his  administrations,  and  I  was 
now  and  then  prevail'd  on  to  do  so,  once  for  five  Sundays 
successively.  Had  he  been  in  my  opinion  a  good  preacher, 
perhaps  I  might  have  continued,  notwithstanding  the  occa- 
sion I  had  for  the  Sunday's  leisure  in  my  course  of  study; 
but  his  discourses  were  chiefly  either  polemic  argumxCnts,  or 
explications  of  the  peculiar  doctrines  of  our  sect,  and  were 
all  to  me  very  dry,  uninteresting,  and  unedifying,  since  not 
a  single  m.oral  principle  was  inculcated  or  enforc'd,  their  aim 
seeming  to  be  rather  to  make  us  Presbyterians  than  good 
citizens. 

At  length  he  took  for  his  text  that  verse  of  the  fourth 
chapter  of  Philippians,  ""  Finally,  brethren,  whatsoever  things 
are  true,  honest,  just,  pure,  lovely,  or  of  good  report,  if 
there  he  any  virtue,  or  any  praise,  think  on  these  things'* 
And  I  imagin'd,  in  a  sermon  on  such  a  text,  we  could  not 
miss  of  having  some  morality.  But  he  confin'd  himself  to 
five  points  only,  as  meant  by  the  apostle,  viz. :  i.  Keeping 
holy  the  Sabbath  day.  2.  Being  diligent  in  reading  the 
holy  Scriptures.  3.  Attending  duly  the  publick  worship. 
4.  Partaking  of  the  Sacrament.  5.  Paying  a  due  respect  to 
God's  ministers.  These  might  be  all  good  things;  but,  as 
they  were  not  the  kind  of  good  things  that  I  expected  from 
that  text,  I  despaired  of  ever  meeting  with  them  from  any 
other,  was  disgusted,  and  attended  his  preaching  no  more. 
I  had  some  years  before  compos'd  a  little  Liturgy,  or  form 
of  prayer,  for  my  own  private  use  (viz,,  in  1728),  entitled. 


82  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

Articles  of  Belief  and  Acts  of  Religion.  I  retuni'd  to  the 
use  of  this,  and  v^^ent  no  more  to  the  public  assemblies.  My 
conduct  might  be  blameable,  but  I  leave  it,  without  attempt- 
ing further  to  excuse  it;  my  present  purpose  being  to  relate 
facts,  and  not  to  make  apologies  for  them. 

It  was  about  this  time  I  conceiv'd  the  bold  and  arduous 
project  of  arriving  at  moral  perfection.  I  wish'd  to  live 
without  committing  any  fault  at  any  time;  I  would  conquer 
all  that  either  natural  inclination,  custom,  or  company  might 
lead  me  into.  As  I  knew,  or  thought  I  knew,  vs^hat  was  right 
and  wrong,  I  did  not  see  why  I  might  not  always  do  the 
one  and  avoid  the  other.  But  I  soon  found  I  had  undertaken 
a  task  of  more  difficulty  than  I  had  imagined.  While 
my  care  was  employ'd  in  guarding  against  one  fault,  I  was 
often  surprised  by  another;  habit  took  the  advantage 
of  inattention;  inclination  was  sometimes  too  strong 
for  reason.  I  concluded,  at  length,  that  the  mere  spec- 
ulative conviction  that  it  was  our  interest  to  be  com- 
pletely virtuous,  was  not  sufficient  to  prevent  our  slipping; 
and  that  the  contrary  habits  must  be  broken,  and  good 
ones  acquired  and  established,  before  we  can  have  any 
dependence  on  a  steady,  uniform  rectitude  of  con- 
duct. For  this  purpose  I  therefore  contrived  the  fol- 
lowing method. 

In  the  various  enumerations  of  the  moral  virtues  I  had 
met  with  in  my  reading,  I  found  the  catalogue  more  or  less 
numerous,  as  different  writers  included  more  or  fewer  ideas 
under  the  same  name.  Temperance,  for  example,  was  by 
some  confined  to  eating  and  drinking,  while  by  others  it  was 
extended  to  mean  the  moderating  every  other  pleasure,  appe- 
tite, inclination,  or  passion,  bodily  or  mental,  even  to  our 
avarice  and  ambition.  I  propos'd  to  myself,  for  the  sake  of 
clearness,  to  use  rather  m.ore  names,  with  fewer  ideas  annex'd 
to  each,  than  a  few  names  with  more  ideas ;  and  I  included 
under  thirteen  names  of  virtues  all  that  at  th^t  time  occurr'd 
to  me  as  necessary  or  desirable,  and  annexed  to  each  a  short 
precept,  which  fully  express'd  the  extent  I  gave  to  its 
meaning. 

These  names  of  virtues,  .with  their  precepts,  wefe: 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  83 

I.   Temperance. 
Eat  not  to  dullness;   drink  not  to  elevation. 

2.    Silence. 

Speak  not  but  what  may  benefit  others  or  yourself;   avoid 
trifling  conversation. 

3.    Order. 

Let  all  your  things  have  their  places;    let  each  part  of 
your  business  have  its  time. 

4.   Resolution. 

Resolve  to   perform  v/hat  you  ought;    perform   without 
fail  what  you  resolve. 

5.  Frugality. 

Make  no  expense  but  to  do  good  to  others  or  yourself; 
i.  e.,  waste  nothing. 

6.  Industry. 

Lose  no  time;    be  always  employed  in  something  useful; 
cut  off  all  unnecessary  actions. 

7.  Sincerity. 

Use  no  hurtful  deceit;    think  innocently  and  justly,  and, 
if  you  speak,  speak  accordingly. 

8.   Justice. 

Wrong  none  by  doing  injuries,  or  omitting  the  benefits 
that  are  your  duty. 

9.   Moderation. 

Avoid  extreams;    forbear  resenting  injuries  so  much  as 
you  think  they  deserve. 


84  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

10.   Cleanliness. 
Tolerate  no  uncleanliness  in  body,  cloaths,  or  habitation. 

II.   Tranquillity. 

Be  not  disturbed  at  trifles,  or  at  accidents  common  or 
ttnavoidabk. 

12.  Chastity. 

Rarely  use  venery  but  for  health  or  offspring,  never  to 
dulness,  weakness,  or  the  injury  of  your  own  or  another's 
peace  or  reputation. 

13.  Humility. 
Imitate  Jesus  and  Socrates. 

My  intention  being  to  acquire  the  habitude  of  all  these 
virtues,  I  judg'd  it  would  be  well  not  to  distract  my  attention 
by  attempting  the  whole  at  once,  but  to  fix  it  on  one  of 
them  at  a  time;  and,  when  I  should  be  master  of  that,  then 
to  proceed  to  another,  and  so  on,  till  I  should  have  gone 
thro'  the  thirteen;  and,  as  the  previous  acquisition  of  some 
might  facilitate  the  acquisition  of  certain  others,  I  arrang'd 
them  with  that  view,  as  they  stand  above.  Temperance 
first,  as  it  tends  to  procure  that  coolness  and  clearness  of 
head,  which  is  so  necessary  where  constant  vigilance  was 
to  be  kept  up,  and  guard  maintained  against  the  unremitting 
attraction  of  ancient  habits,  and  the  force  of  perpetual 
temptations.  This  being  acquir'd  and  establish'd.  Silence 
would  be  more  easy ;  and  my  desire  being  to  gain  knowledge 
at  the  same  time  that  I  improv'd  in  virtue,  and  considering 
that  in  conversation  it  was  obtain'd  rather  by  the  use  of 
the  ears  than  of  the  tongue,  and  therefore  wishing  to  break 
a  habit  I  was  getting  into  of  prattling,  punning,  and  joking, 
which  only  made  me  acceptable  to  trifling  company,  I  gave 
Silence  the  second  place.  This  and  the  next,  Order,  I 
expected  would  allow  me  more  time  for  attending  to  my 
project  and  my  studies.  Resolution,  once  become  habitual, 
would  keep  me  firm  in  my  endeavors  to  obtain  all  the  subse- 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY 


85 


qtient  virtues;  Frugality  and  Industry  freeing  me  from  my 
remaining  debt,  and  producing  affluence  and  independence, 
would  make  more  easy  the  practice  of  Sincerity  and  Justice, 
etc.,  etc.  Conceiving  then,  that,  agreeably  to  the  advice  of 
Pythagoras  in  his  Golden  Verses,  daily  examination  would 
be  necessary,  I  contrived  the  following  method  for  conduct- 
ing that  examination. 

I  made  a  little  book,  in  which  I  allotted  a  page  for  each 
of  the  virtues.  I  rul'd  each  page  with  red  ink,  so  as  to 
have  seven  columns,  one  for  each  day  of  the  week,  marking 
each  column  with  a  letter  for  the  day.  I  cross'd  these 
columns  v/ith  thirteen  red  lines,  marking  the  beginning  of 
each  line  with  the  first  letter  of  one  of  the  virtues,  on  which 
line,  and  in  its  proper  column,  I  might  mark,  by  a  little 
black  spot,  every  fault  I  found  upon  examination  to  have 
been  committed  respecting  that  virtue  upon  that  day. 

Form  of  the  pages. 


TEMPERANCE. 

EAT    NOT    TO    DULNESS ; 
DRINK    NOT    TO    ELEVATION. 

S. 

M. 

T. 

W. 

T. 

F. 

S. 

T. 

S. 

* 

* 

* 

* 

o. 

*  * 

* 

* 

* 

* 

« 

R. 

* 

* 

F. 

* 

* 

I. 

* 

S. 

J. 

M. 

G. 

T. 

C. 

H. 

-          i 

86  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

I  determined  to  give  a  week's  strict  attention  to  eacli  of 
the  virtues  successively.  Thus,  in  the  first  week,  my  great 
guard  was  to  avoid  every  the  least  offence  against  Temper- 
ance, leaving  the  other  virtues  to  their  ordinary  chance, 
only  marking  every  evening  the  faults  of  the  day.  Thus,  if 
in  the  first  week  I  could  keep  my  first  line,  marked  T,  clear 
of  spots,  I  suppos'd  the  habit  of  that  virtue  so  much 
strengthen'd,  and  its  opposite  weaken'd,  that  I  might  venture 
extending  my  attention  to  include  the  next,  and  for  the 
following  week  keep  both  lines  clear  of  spots.  Proceeding 
thus  to  the  last,  I  could  go  thro'  a  course  compleat  in  thir- 
teen weeks,  and  four  courses  in  a  year.  And  like  him  who, 
having  a  garden  to  weed,  does  not  attempt  to  eradicate  all 
the  bad  herbs  at  once,  which  would  exceed  his  reach  and 
his  strength,  but  works  on  one  of  the  beds  at  a  time,  and, 
having  accomplish'd  the  first,  proceeds  to  a  second,  so  I 
should  have,  I  hoped,  the  encouraging  pleasure  of  seeing  on 
my  pages  the  progress  I  made  in  virtue,  by  clearing  suc- 
cessively my  lines  of  their  spots,  till  in  the  end,  by  a  num- 
ber of  courses,  I  should  be  happy  in  viewing  a  clean  book, 
after  a  thirteen  weeks'  daily  examination. 

This  my  little  book  had  for  its  motto  these  lines  from 
Addison's  Cato: 

"  Here  will  I  hold.    If  there's  a  power  above  us 
(And  that  there  is,  all  nature  cries  aloud 
Thro'  all  her  works),  He  must  delight  in  virtue; 
And  that  which  he  delights  in  must  be  happy." 

Another  from  Cicero, 

"  O  vitse  Philosophia  dux !  O  virtutum  indagatrix  expultrlxque 
vitiorum !  Unus  dies,  bene  et  ex  praeceptis  tuis  actus,  peccanti 
immortalitati  est  anteponendus." 

Another  from  the  Proverbs  of  Solomon,  speaking  of 
wisdom  or  virtue: 

"  Length  of  days  is  in  her  right  hand,  and  in  her  left  hand  riches 
and  honour.  Her  ways  are  ways  of  pleasantness,  and  all  her  paths 
are  peace."     iii.  i6,  17. 

And  conceiving  God  to  be  the  fountain  of  wisdom,  I 
thought  it  right  and  necessary  to  solicit  his  assistance  for 
obtaining  it ;  to  this  end  I  formed  the  following  little  prayer. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY 


87 


which  was  prefix'd  to  my  tables  of  examination,  for  daily- 
use. 

"O  powerful  Goodness!  bountiful  Father!  merciful  Guide! 
Increase  in  me  that  zuisdom  which  discovers  my  truest  interest. 
Strengthen  my  resolutions  to  perform  what  that  wisdom  dictates. 
Accept  my  kind  offices  to  thy  other  children  as  the  only  return  in 
my  power  for  thy  continual  favors  to  me." 

I  used  also  sometimes  a  little  prayer  which  I  took  from 
Thomson's  Poems,  viz. : 

"  Father  of  light  and  life,  thou  Good  Supreme ! 
O  teach  me  what  is  good ;  teach  me  Thyself ! 
Save  me  from  folly,  vanity,  and  vice, 
From  every  low  pursuit;  and  fill  my  soul 
With  knowledge,  conscious  peace,  and  virtue  pure; 
Sacred,  substantial,  never-fading  bliss  !  " 

The  precept  of  Order  requiring  that  every  part  of  my 
business  should  have  its  allotted  time,  one  page  in  my  little 
book  contain'd  the  following  scheme  of  employment  for  the 
twenty-four  hours  of  a  natural  day: 


The  Morning. 


Question.     What 
I  do  this  day? 


good  shall 


<     6 


Rise,  wash,  and  address 
Powerful  Goodness!  Contrive 
day's  business,  and  take  the 
resolution  of  the  day;  prose- 
cute the  present  study,  and 
breakfast. 


Noon. 


Evening. 


vw 


9  \.  Work. 

lO 

II 

12 

I 
2 

3 
4 
5J 


Question.     What  good  have 
\  done  to-day? 


Night. 


Read,    or    overlook    my   ac- 
counts, and  dine. 

Work. 

Put  things  in  their  places. 
^  Supper.  Music  or  diversion, 
8  '    or  conversation.     Examinatior 


9 

ID 
II 
12 

I 

2 

3 
L  4X 


of  the  day. 


Sleep. 


88  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

I  enter'd  upon  the  execution  of  this  plan  for  self-examina- 
tion, and  continu'd  it  v/ith  occasional  intermissions  for  some 
time.  I  was  surpris'd  to  find  myself  so  much  fuller  of  faults 
than  I  had  imagined;  but  I  had  the  satisfaction  of  seeing 
them  diminish.  To  avoid  the  trouble  of  renewing  now  and 
then  my  little  book,  which,  by  scraping  out  the  marks  on 
the  paper  of  old  faults  to  make  room  for  new  ones  in  a 
new  course,  became  full  of  holes,  I  transferr'd  my  tables 
and  precepts  to  the  ivory  leaves  of  a  memorandum  book, 
on  which  the  lines  were  drawn  with  red  ink,  that  made  a 
durable  stain,  and  on  those  lines  I  mark'd  my  faults  with 
a  black-lead  pencil,  which  marks  I  could  easily  wipe  out 
with  a  wet  sponge.  After  a  while  I  went  thro'  one  course 
only  in  a  year,  and  afterward  only  one  in  several  years,  till 
at  length  I  omitted  them  entirely,  being  employ'd  in  voyages 
and  business  abroad,  with  a  multiplicity  of  affairs  that  inter- 
fered;   but  I  always  carried  my  little  book  with  me. 

My  scheme  of  Order  gave  me  the  most  trouble;  and  I 
found  that,  tho'  it  might  be  practicable  where  a  man's  busi- 
ness was  such  as  to  leave  him  the  disposition  of  his  time, 
that  of  a  journeyman  printer,  for  instance,  it  was  not  pos- 
sible to  be  exactly  observed  by  a  master,  who  must  mix 
with  the  world,  and  often  receive  people  of  business  at  their 
own  hours.  Order,  too,  vv^ith  regard  to  places  for  things, 
papers,  etc.,  I  found  extreamly  difficult  to  acquire.  I  had 
not  been  early  accustomed  to  it,  and,  having  an  exceeding 
good  memory,  I  was  not  so  sensible  of  the  inconvenience 
attending  want  of  method.  This  article,  therefore,  cost  me 
so  much  painful  attention,  and  my  faults  in  it  vexed  me  so 
much,  and  I  made  so  little  progress  in  amendment,  and  had 
such  frequent  relapses,  that  I  was  almost  ready  to  give  up 
the  attempt,  and  content  myself  with  a  faulty  character  in 
that  respect,  like  the  man  who,  in  buying  an  ax  of  a  smith, 
my  neighbour,  desired  to  have  the  whole  of  its  surface  as 
bright  as  the  edge.  The  smith  consented  to  grind  it  bright 
for  him  if  he  would  turn  the  wheel;  he  turn'd,  while  the 
smith  press'd  the  broad  face  of  the  ax  hard  and  heavily  on 
the  stone,  which  made  the  turning  of  it  very  fatiguing. 
The  man  came  every  now  and  then  from  the  wheel  to  see 
how  the  work  went  on,  and  at  length  would  take  his  ax  as 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  89 

it  was,  without  farther  grinding.  "  No,"  said  the  smith, 
"  turn  on,  turn  on ;  we  shall  have  it  bright  by-and-by ;  as 
yet,  it  is  only  speckled/''  "  Yes,"  said  the  man,  ""  but  I 
think  I  like  a  speckled  ax  best/'  And  I  believe  this  may 
have  been  the  case  with  many,  who,  having,  for  want  of 
some  such  means  as  I  employ'd,  found  the  difficulty  of 
obtaining  good  and  breaking  bad  habits  in  other  points  of 
vice  and  virtue,  have  given  up  the  struggle,  and  concluded 
that  "  a  speckled  ax  was  best " ;  for  something,  that  pretended 
to  be  reason,  was  every  now  and  then  suggesting  to  me  that 
such  extream  nicety  as  I  exacted  of  myself  might  be  a  kind 
of  foppery  in  morals,  which,  if  it  were  known,  would  make 
me  ridiculous;  that  a  perfect  character  might  be  attended 
with  the  inconvenience  of  being  envied  and  hated;  and  that 
a  benevolent  man  should  allow  a  few  faults  in  himself,  to 
keep  his  friends  in  countenance. 

In  truth,  I  found  myself  incorrigible  with  respect  to 
Order;  and  now  I  am  grown  old,  and  my  memory  bad,  I 
feel  very  sensibly  the  want  of  it.  But,  on  the  whole,  tho' 
I  never  arrived  at  the  perfection  I  had  been  so  ambitious  of 
obtaining,  but  fell  far  short  of  it,  yet  I  was,  by  the  endeavour, 
a  better  and  a  happier  man  than  I  otherwise  should  have 
been  if  I  had  not  attempted  it;  as  those  who  aim  at 
perfect  writing  by  imitating  the  engraved  copies,  tho'  they 
never  reach  the  wish'd-for  excellence  of  those  copies,  their 
hand  is  mended  by  the  endeavor,  and  is  tolerable  while  it 
continues  fair  and  legible. 

It  may  be  well  my  posterity  should  be  informed  that  to 
this  little  artifice,  with  the  blessing  of  God,  their  ancestor 
cw'd  the  constant  felicity  of  his  life,  down  to  his  79th  year, 
in  which  this  is  written.  What  reverses  may  attend  the 
remainder  is  in  the  hand  of  Providence;  but,  if  they  arrive, 
the  reflection  on  past  happiness  enjoy'd  ought  to  help  his 
bearing  them  with  more  resignation.  To  Temperance  he 
ascribes  his  long-continued  health,  and  what  is  still  left  to  him 
of  a  good  constitution;  to  Industry  and  Frugality,  the  early 
easiness  of  his  circumstances  and  acquisition  of  his  fortune, 
with  all  that  knowledge  that  enabled  him  to  be  a  useful 
citizen,  and  obtained  for  him  some  degree  of  reputation 
among  the  learned;   to  Sincerity  and  Justice,  the  confidence 


90  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

of  his  country,  and  the  honorable  employs  it  conferred  upon 
him;  and  to  the  joint  influence  of  the  whole  mass  of  the 
virtues,  even  in  the  imperfect  state  he  was  able  to  acquire 
them,  all  that  evenness  of  temper,  and  that  cheerfulness  in 
conversation,  which  makes  his  company  still  sought  for,  and 
agreeable  even  to  his  younger  acquaintance.  I  hope,  there- 
fore,, that  some  of  my  descendants  may  follow  the  example 
and  reap  the  benefit. 

It  will  be  remark'd  that,  tho'  my  schem.e  was  not  wholly 
without  religion,  there  was  in  it  no  mark  of  any  of  the 
distinguishing  tenets  of  any  particular  sect.  I  had  purposely 
avoided  them;  for,  being  fully  persuaded  of  the  utility  and 
excellency  of  my  method,  and  that  it  might  be  serviceable 
to  people  in  all  religions,  and  intending  some  time  or  other 
to  publish  it,  I  would  not  have  any  thing  in  it  that  should 
prejudice  any  one,  of  any  sect,  against  it.  I  purposed 
writing  a  little  comment  on  each  virtue,  in  which  I  would 
have  shown  the  advantages  of  possessing  it,  and  the  mis- 
chiefs attending  its  opposite  vice;  and  I  should  have  called 
my  book  The  Art  of  Virtue,^  because  it  would  have  shown 
the  means  and  manner  of  obtaining  virtue,  which  would 
have  distinguished  it  from  the  mere  exhortation  to  be  good, 
that  does  not  instruct  and  indicate  the  m.eans,  but  is  like 
the  apostle's  man  of  verbal  charity,  who  only  without  show- 
ing to  the  naked  and  hungry  how  or  where  they  might  get 
clothes  or  victuals,  exhorted  them  to  be  fed  and  clothed. — 
James  ii.  15,  16. 

But  it  so  happened  that  my  intention  of  writing  and 
publishing  this  comment  was  never  fulfilled.  I  did,  indeed, 
from  time  to  time,  put  down  short  hints  of  the  sentiments, 
reasonings,  etc.,  to  be  made  use  of  in  it,  some  of  which  I 
have  still  by  me ;  but  the  necessary  close  attention  to  private 
business  in  the  earlier  part  of  my  life,  and  public  business 
since,  have  occasioned  my  postponing  it;  for,  it  being  con- 
nected in  my  mind  with  a  great  and  extensive  project,  that 
required  the  whole  man  to  execute,  and  which  an  unforeseen 
succession  of  employs  prevented  my  attending  to,  it  has 
liitherto  remain'd  unfinish'd. 

In  this  piece  it  was  my  design  to  explain  and  enforce  this 

'Nothing  so  likely  to  make  3  man's  fortune  as  virtne.'^lMarg.  note.l 

f 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  91 

doctrine,  that  vicious  actions  are  not  hurtful  because  they 
are  forbidden,  but  forbidden  because  they  are  hurtful,  the 
nature  of  man  alone  considered;  that  it  was,  therefore, 
every  one's  interest  to  be  virtuous  who  wish'd  to  be  happy 
even  in  this  v/orld;  and  I  should,  from  this  circumstance 
(there  being  always  in  the  world  a  number  of  rich  mer- 
chants, nobility,  states,  and  princes,  who  have  need  of  honest 
instruments  for  the  management  of  their  affairs,  and  such 
being  so  rare),  have  endeavored  to  convince  young  persons 
that  no  qualities  were  so  likely  to  make  a  poor  man's  fortime 
as  those  of  probity  and  integrity. 

My  list  of  virtues  contain'd  at  first  but  twelve;  but  a 
Quaker  friend  having  kindly  informed  me  that  I  was  gen- 
erally thought  proud;  that  my  pride  show'd  itself  frequently 
in  conversation;  that  I  was  not  content  with  being  in  the 
right  when  discussing  any  point,  but  was  overbearing,  and 
rather  insolent,  of  which  he  convinc'd  me  by  mentioning 
several  instances ;  I  determined  endeavouring  to  cure  myself, 
if  I  could^  of  this  vice  or  folly  among  the  rest,  and  I  added 
Humility  to  my  list,  giving  an  extensive  meaning  to  the 
word. 

I  cannot  boast  of  much  success  in  acquiring  the  reality 
of  this  virtue,  but  I  had  a  good  deal  with  regard  to  the 
appearance  of  it.  I  made  it  a  rule  to  forbear  all  direct  con- 
tradiction to  the  sentiments  of  others,  and  all  positive  asser- 
tion of  my  own.  I  even  forbid  myself,  agreeably  to  t^e  old 
laws  of  our  Junto,  the  use  of  every  word  or  expresjion  in 
the  language  that  imported  a  fix'd  opinion,  such  as  certainly, 
undoubtedly,  etc.,  and  I  adopted.,  instead  of  them,  /  conceive, 
I  apprehend,  or  /  imagine  a  thing  to  be  so  or  so;  or  it 
so  appears  to  me  at  present.  When  another  asserted  some- 
thing that  I  thought  an  error,  I  deny'd  myself  the  pleasure 
of  contradicting  him  abruptly,  and  of  showing  immediately 
some  absurdity  in  his  proposition ;  and  in  answering  I  began 
by  observing  that  in  certain  cases  or  circumstances  his 
opinion  would  be  right,  but  in  the  present  case  there  appeared 
or  seem'd  to  me  some  difference,  etc.  I  soon  found  the 
advantage  of  this  change  in  my  manner;  the  conversations 
I  engag'd  in  went  on  more  pleasantly.  The  modest  way  in 
which  I  propos'd  my  opinions  procur'd  them  a  readier  recep- 


92  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

tion  and  less  contradiction;  I  had  less  mortification  when  I 
was  found  to  be  in  the  wrong,  and  I  more  easily  prevail'd 
with  others  to  give  up  their  mistakes  and  join  with  me  when 
I  happened  to  be  in  the  right. 

And  this  mode,  which  I  at  first  put  on  with  some  violence 
to  natural  inclination,  became  at  length  so  easy,  and  so 
habitual  to  me,  that  perhaps  for  these  fifty  years  past  no 
one  has  ever  heard  a  dogmatical  expression  escape  me.  And 
to  this  habit  (after  m.y  character  of  integrity)  I  think  it 
principally  owing  that  I  had  early  so  much  weight  with  my 
fellow-citizens  when  I  proposed  new  institutions,  or  altera- 
tions in  the  old,  and  so  niuch  influence  in  public  councils 
when  I  became  a  member;  for  I  was  but  a  bad  speaker, 
never  eloquent,  subject  to  much  hesitation  in  my  choice  of 
words,  hardly  correct  in  language,  and  yet  I  generally 
carried  my  points. 

In  reality,  there  is,  perhaps,  no  one  of  our  natural  passions 
so  hard  to  subdue  as  pride.  Disguise  it,  struggle  with  it, 
beat  it  down,  stifle  it,  mortify  it  as  much  as  one  pleases, 
it  is  still  alive,  and  will  every  now  and  then  peep  out  and 
show  itself;  you  will  see  it,  perhaps,  often  in  this  history; 
for,  even  if  I  could  conceive  that  I  had  com.pleatly  overcome 
it,  I  should  probably  be  proud  of  my  humility. 

[Thus  far  written  at  Passy,  1784.] 


f  /  am  now  ah  out  to  write  at  home,  'August,  iy88,  hut  can 
not  have  the  help  expected  from  my  papers,  many  of 
them  being  lost  in  the  war.  I  have,  however,  found  the 
following  "Y 

'AVING  mentioned  a  great  and  extensive  project 
which  I  had  conceiv'd,  it  seems  proper  that  some 
account  should  be  here  given  of  that  project  and  its 
object.  Its  first  rise  in  my  mind  appears  in  the  following 
little  paper,  accidentally  preserv'd,  viz. : 

Observations  on  my  reading  history,  in  Library,  May 
19th,  1731. 

"  That  the  great  affairs  of  the  world,  the  wars,  revolutions, 
etc.,  are  carried  on  and  affected  by  parties. 

"  That  the  view  of  these  parties  is  their  present  general 
interest,  or  what  they  take  to  be  such. 

"  That  the  different  views  of  these  different  parties  occa- 
sion all  confusion. 

**  That  while  a  party  is  carrying  on  a  general  design,  each 
man  has  his  particular  private  interest  in  view. 

"  That  as  soon  as  a  party  has  gain'd  its  general  point, 
each  member  becomes  intent  upon  his  particular  interest; 
which,  thwarting  others,  breaks  that  party  into  divisions, 
and  occasions  more  confusion. 

"  That  few  in  public  affairs  act  from  a  meer  view  of  the 
good  of  their  country,  whatever  they  may  pretend;  and, 
tho'  their  actings  bring  real  good  to  their  country,  yet  men 
primarily  considered  that  their  own  and  their  country's 
interest  was  united,  and  did  not  act  from  a  principle  of 
benevolence. 

"  That  fewer  still,  in  public  affairs,  act  with  a  view  tQ 
the  good  of  mankind. 

s  This  is  a  marginal  memorandum. — B. 
93 


94  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

*'THere  seems  to  me  at  present  to  be  great  occasion  for 
raising  a  United  Party  for  Virtue,  by  forming  the  vir- 
tuous and  good  men  of  all  nations  into  a  regular  body,  to 
be  governed  by  suitable  good  and  wise  rules,  which  good  and 
wise  men  may  probably  be  more  unanimous  in  their  obedience 
to,  than  common  people  are  to  common  laws. 

"  I  at  present  think  that  whoever  attempts  this  aright, 
and  is  well  qualified,  can  not  fail  of  pleasing  God,  and  of 
meeting  with  success.  B.  F." 

Revolving  this  project  in  my  mind,  as  to  be  undertaken 
hereafter,  when  my  circumstances  should  afford  me  the 
necessary  leisure,  I  put  down  from  tinie  to  time,  on  pieces 
of  paper,  such  thoughts  as  occurr'd  to  me  respecting  it. 
Most  of  these  are  lost;  but  I  find  one  purporting  to  be  the 
substance  of  an  intended  creed,  containing,  as  I  thought, 
the  essentials  of  every  known  religion,  and  being  free  of 
every  thing  that  might  shock  the  professors  of  any  religion. 
It  is  express'd  in  these  words,  viz. : 

"  That  there  is  one  God,  who  made  all  things. 

"  That  he  governs  the  world  by  his  providence. 

"  That  he  ought  to  be  worshiped  by  adoration,  prayer, 
and  thanksgiving. 

"  But  that  the  most  acceptable  service  of  God  is  doing 
good  to  man. 

"  That  the  soul  is  immortal. 

"And  that  God  will  certainly  reward  virtue  and  punish 
vice,  either  here  or  hereafter."^ 

My  ideas  at  that  time  were,  that  the  sect  should  be  begun 
and  spread  at  first  among  young  and  single  men  only;  that 
each  person  to  be  initiated  should  not  only  declare  his  assent 
to  such  creed,  but  should  have  exercised  himself  with  the 
thirteen  v/eeks*  examination  and  practice  of  the  virtues,  as 
in  the  before-mention'd  model;  that  the  existence  of  such 
a  society  should  be  kept  a  secret,  till  it  was  become  consid- 
erable, to  prevent  solicitations  for  the  admission  of  improper 
persons,  but  that  the  members  should  each  of  them  search 
among  his  acquaintance  for  ingenuous,  well-disposed  youths, 
to  whom,  with  prudent  caution,  the  scheme  should  be  grad- 

^  In  the  Middle  Ages,  Franklin,  if  such  a  phenomenon  as  Franklin  were 
possible  in  the  Middle  Ages,  would  probably  have  been  the  founder  of  a 
monastic  order. — B. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  95 

ually  comirmnicated ;  that  the  members  should  engage  to 
afford  their  advice,  assistance^  and  support  to  each  other  in 
promoting  one  another's  interests,  business,  and  advancement 
in  life;  that,  for  distinction,  we  should  be  call'd  The  Society 
of  the  Free  and  Easy:  free,  as  being,  by  the  general  prac- 
tice and  habit  of  the  virtues,  free  from  the  dominion  of  vice; 
and  particularly  by  the  practice  of  industry  and  frugality, 
free  from  debt,  which  exposes  a  man  to  confinement,  and 
a  species  of  slavery  to  his  creditors. 

This  is  as  much  as  I  can  now  recollect  of  the  project, 
except  that  I  comm.unicated  it  in  part  to  two  young  men, 
who  adopted  it  with  some  enthusiasm;  but  my  then  narrow 
circumstances,  and  the  necessity  I  was  under  of  sticking 
close  to  my  business,  occasion'd  my  postponing  the  further 
prosecution  of  it  at  that  time;  and  my  multifarious  occupa- 
tions, public  and  private,  induc'd  me  to  continue  post- 
poning, so  that  it  has  been  omitted  till  I  have  no  longer 
strength  or  activity  left  sufficient  for  such  an  enterprise; 
tho*  I  am  still  of  opinion  that  it  was  a  practicable  scheme, 
and  mJght  have  been  very  useful,  by  forming  a  great  num- 
ber of  good  citizens ;  and  I  was  not  discourag'd  by  the  seem- 
ing magnitude  of  the  undertaking,  as  I  have  always  thought 
that  one  man  of  tolerable  abilities  may  work  great  changes, 
and  accomplish  great  affairs  among  mankind,  if  he  first 
forms  a  good  plan,  and,  cutting  off  all  amusements  or  other 
employments  that  would  divert  his  attention,  makes  the  exe- 
cution of  that  same  plan  his  sole  study  and  business. 

In  1732  I  first  publish'd  my  Almanack,  under  the  name 
of  Richard  Saunders;  it  was  continu'd  by  me  about  twenty- 
five  years,  commonly  call'd  Poor  Richard's  Almanac.  I 
endeavor'd  to  make  it  both  entertaining  and  useful,  and  it 
accordingly  came  to  be  in  such  demand,  that  I  reap'd  con- 
siderable profit  from  it,  vending  annually  near  ten  thousand. 
And  observing  that  it  was  generally  read,  scarce  any  neigh- 
borhood in  the  province  being  without  it,  I  consider'd  it  as 
a  proper  vehicle  for  conveying  instruction  among  the  com- 
mon people,  who  bought  scarcely  any  other  books;  I  there- 
fore filled  all  the  little  spaces  that  occurr'd  between  the 
remarkable  days  in  the  calendar  with  proverbial  sentences, 
chiefly  such  as  inculcated  industry  and  frugality,  as  the 


96  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

means  of  procuring  wealth,  and  thereby  securing  virtue;  it 
being  more  difficult  for  a  man  in  want,  to  act  always  hon- 
estly, as,  to  use  here  one  of  those  proverbs,  it  is  hard  for  an 
empty  sack  to  stand  upright. 

These  proyerbs,  which  contained  the  wisdom  of  many 
ages  and  nations,  I  assem^bled  and  form'd  into  a  connected 
discourse  prefix'd  to  the  Almanack  of  1757,  as  the  harangue 
of  a  wise  old  man  to  the  people  attending  an  auction.  The 
bringing  all  these  scatter'd  counsels  thus  into  a  focus  enabled 
them  to  make  greater  impression.  The  piece,  being  univer- 
sally approved,  was  copied  in  all  the  newspapers  of  the  Con- 
tinent ;  reprinted  in  Britain  on  a  broad  side,  to  be  stuck  up  in 
houses;  two  translations  were  made  of  it  in  French,  and 
great  numbers  bought  by  the  clergy  and  gentry,  to  distribute 
gratis  among  their  poor  parishioners  and  tenants.  In  Penn- 
sylvania, as  it  discouraged  useless  expense  in  foreign  super- 
fluities, somiC  thought  it  had  its  share  of  influence  in  pro- 
ducing that  growing  plenty  of  money  which  was  observable 
for  several  years  after  its  publication. 

I  considered  my  newspaper,  also,  as  another  means  of 
communicating  instruction,  and  in  that  view  frequently 
reprinted  in  it  extracts  from  the  Spectator,  and  other  moral 
writers;  and  sometimes  publish'd  little  pieces  of  my  own, 
which  had  been  first  compos'd  for  reading  in  our  Junto.  Of 
these  are  a  Socratic  dialogue,  tending  to  prove  that,  what- 
ever might  be  his  parts  and  abilities,  a  vicious  man  could 
not  properly  be  called  a  man  of  sense;  and  a  discourse  on 
self-denial,  showing  that  virtue  was  not  secure  till  its  prac- 
tice became  a  habitude,  and  was  free  from  the  opposition  of 
contrary  inclinations.  These  may  be  found  in  the  papers 
about  the  beginning  of  1735. 

In  the  conduct  of  my  newspaper,  I  carefully  excluded  all 
libelling  and  personal  abuse,  which  is  of  late  years  become 
so  disgraceful  to  our  country.  Whenever  I  was  solicited 
to  insert  anything  of  that  kind,  and  the  writers  pleaded,  as 
they  generally  did,  the  liberty  of  the  press,  and  that  a  news- 
p»aper  was  like  a  stage-coach,  in  which  any  one  who  would 
pay  had  a  right  to  a  place,  my  answer  was,  that  I  would 
print  the  piece  separately  if  desired,  and  the  author  mxight 
have  as  many  copies  as  he  pleased  to  distribute  himself, 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  97 

but  that  I  would  not  take  upon  me  to  spread  his  detraction; 
and  that,  having  contracted  with  my  subscribers  to  furnish 
them  with  what  might  be  either  useful  or  entertaining,  I 
could  not  fill  their  papers  with  private  altercation,  in  which 
they  had  no  concern,  without  doing  them  manifest  injustice. 
Now,  many  of  our  printers  make  no  scruple  of  gratifying 
the  malice  of  individuals  by  false  accusations  of  the  fairest 
characters  among  ourselves,  augmenting  animosity  even  to 
the  producing  of  duels;  and  are,  moreover,  so  indiscreet  as 
to  print  scurrilous  reflections  on  the  government  of  neigh- 
boring states,  and  even  on  the  conduct  of  our  best  national 
allies,  which  may  be  attended  with  the  most  pernicious  con- 
sequences. These  things  I  mention  as  a  caution  to  young 
printers,  and  that  they  may  be  encouraged  not  to  pollute  their 
presses  and  disgrace  their  profession  by  such  infamous  prac- 
tices, but  refuse  steadily,  as  they  may  see  by  my  example 
that  such  a  course  of  conduct  will  not,  on  the  whole,  be  in- 
jurious to  their  interests. 

In  1733  I  sent  one  of  my  journeymen  to  Charleston,  Soutfi 
Carolina,  where  a  printer  was  wanting.  I  furnish'd  him 
with  a  press  and  letters,  on  an  agreement  of  partnership, 
by  which  I  was  to  receive  one-third  of  the  profits  of  the 
business,  paying  one-third  of  the  expense.  He  was  a  man 
of  learning,  and  honest  but  ignorant  in  matters  of  account; 
and,  tho'  he  sometimes  made  me  remittances,  I  could  get  no 
account  from  him,  nor  any  satisfactory  state  of  our  partner- 
ship while  he  lived.  On  his  decease,  the  business  was  con- 
tinued by  his  widow,  who,  being  born  and  bred  in  Holland, 
where,  as  I  have  been  inform' d,  the  knowledge  of  accounts 
makes  a  part  of  fem.ale  education,  she  not  only  sent  me  as 
clear  a  state  as  she  could  find  of  the  transactions  past,  but 
continued  to  account  with  the  greatest  regularity  and  exact- 
ness every  quarter  afterwards,  and  m.anaged  the  business 
with  such  success,  that  she  not  only  brought  up  reputably 
a  family  of  children,  but,  at  the  expiration  of  the  term, 
was  able  to  purchase  of  me  the  printing-house,  and  establish 
her  son  in  it. 

I  mention  this  affair  chiefly  for  the  sake  of  recommend- 
ing that  branch  of  education  for  our  young  females,  as  likely 
to  be  of  more  use  to  them  and  their  children,  in  case  of 

4  HO— Vol.  1 


98  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

widowhood,  than  either  music  or  dancing,  by  preserving 
them  from  losses  by  imposition  of  crafty  men,  and  enabling 
them  to  continue,  perhaps,  a  profitable  mercantile  house, 
with  established  correspondence,  till  a  son  is  grown  up  fit  to 
undertake  and  go  on  with  it,  to  the  lasting  advantage  and 
enriching  of  the  family. 

About  the  year  1734  there  arrived  among  us  from  Ireland 
a  young  Presbyterian  preacher,  named  Hemphill,  who  de- 
livered with  a  good  voice,  and  apparently  extempore,  most 
excellent  discourses,  which  drew  together  considerable  num- 
bers of  different  persuasion,  who  join'd  in  admiring  them. 
Among  the  rest,  I  became  one  of  his  constant  hearers,  his 
sermons  pleasing  me,  as  they  had  little  of  the  dogmatical 
kind,  but  inculcated  strongly  the  practice  of  virtue,  or  what 
in  the  religious  stile  are  called  good  works.  Those,  however, 
of  our  congregation,  who  considered  themselves  as  orthodox 
Presbyterians,  disapprov'd  his  doctrine,  and  were  join'd  by 
most  of  the  old  clergy,  who  arraign'd  him  of  heterodoxy 
before  the  synod,  in  order  to  have  him  silenc'd.  I  became 
his  zealous  partisan,  and  contributed  all  I  could  to  raise  a 
party  in  his  favour,  and  we  combated  for  him  a  while  with 
some  hopes  of  success.  There  was  much  scribbling  pro  and 
con  upon  the  occasion;  and  finding  that,  tho'  an  elegant 
preacher,  he  was  but  a  poor  writer,  I  lent  him  my  pen  and 
wrote  for  him  two  or  three  pamphlets,  and  one  piece  in  the 
Gazette  of  April,  1735.  Those  pamphlets,  as  is  generally 
the  case  with  controversial  writings,  tho'  eagerly  read  at  the 
time,  were  soon  out  of  vogue,  and  I  question  whether  a 
single  copy  of  them  now  exists. 

Puring  the  contest  an  unlucky  occurrence  hurt  his  cause 
exceedingly.  One  of  our  adversaries  having  heard  him 
preach  a  sermon  that  was  much  admired,  thought  he  had 
somewhere  read  the  sermon  before,  or  at  least  a  part  of  it. 
On  search  he  found  that  part  quoted  at  length,  in  one  of 
the  British  Reviews,  from  a  discourse  of  Dr.  Foster's.  This 
detection  gave  many  of  our  party  disgust,  who  accordingly 
abandoned  his  cause,  and  occasioned  our  more  speedy  discom- 
fiture in  the  synod.  I  stuck  by  him,  hovv^ever,  as  I  rather 
approv'd  Us  giving  us  good  sermons  compos'd  by  others, 
than  bad  ones  of  his  own  manufacture,  tho'  the  latter  was 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  99 

the  practice  of  our  common  teachers.  He  afterward  acknowl- 
edg'd  to  me  that  none  of  those  he  preach'd  were  his  own; 
adding,  that  his  memory  was  such  as  enabled  him  to  retain 
and  repeat  any  sermon  after  one  reading  only.  On  our 
defeat,  he  left  us  in  search  elsewhere  of  better  fortune,  and 
I  quitted  the  congregation,  never  joining  it  after,  tho'  I 
continu'd  many  years  my  subscription  for  the  support  of 
its  ministers. 

I  had  begun  in  1733  to  study  languages;  I  soon  made 
myself  so  much  a  master  of  the  French  as  to  be  able  to 
read  the  books  with  ease.  I  then  undertook  the  Italian.  An 
acquaintance,  who  was  also  learning  it,  us'd  often  to  tempt 
me  to  play  chess  with  him.  Finding  this  took  up  too  much 
of  the  time  I  had  to  spare  for  study,  I  at  length  refus'd 
to  play  any  more,  unless  on  this  condition,  that  the  victor 
in  every  game  should  have  a  right  to  impose  a  task,  either 
in  parts  of  the  grammar  to  be  got  by  heart,  or  in  transla- 
tionSj  etc.,  which  tasks  the  vanquish'd  was  to  perform  upon 
honour,  before  our  next  meeting.  As  we  play'd  pretty 
equally,  we  thus  beat  one  another  into  that  language.  I 
afterwards  with  a  little  painstaking,  acquir'd  as  much  of 
the  Spanish  as  to  read  their  books  also. 

I  have  already  mention'd  that  I  had  only  one  year's  in- 
struction in  a  Latin  school,,  and  that  when  very  young,  after 
which  I  neglected  that  language  entirely.  But,  when  I  had 
attained  an  acquaintance  with  the  French,  Italian,  and 
Spanish,  I  was  surpriz'd  to  find,  on  looking  over  a  Latin 
Testament,  that  I  understood  so  much  more  of  that  language 
than  I  had  imagined,  which  encouraged  me  to  apply  myself 
again  to  the  study  of  it,  and  I  met  with  more  success,  as  those 
preceding  languages  had  greatly  smooth'd  my  way. 

From  these  circumstances,  I  have  thought  that  there  is 
some  inconsistency  in  our  common  mode  of  teaching  lan- 
guages. We  are  told  that  it  is  proper  to  begin  first  with 
the  Latin,  and,  having  acquir'd  that,  it  will  be  more  easy 
to  attain  those  modern  languages  which  are  deriv'd  from  it; 
and  yet  we  do  not  begin  with  the  Greek,  in  order  more 
easily  to  acquire  the  Latin.  It  is  true  that,  if  you  can 
clamber  and  get  to  the  top  of  a  staircase  v/ithout  using  the 
steps,  you  will  mere  easily  gain  them  in  descending;    but 


100  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

certainly,  if  you  begin  with  the  lowest  you  will  with  more 
ease  ascend  to  the  top;  and  I  would  therefore  offer  it  to 
the  consideration  of  those  who  superintend  the  education  of 
our  youth,  whether,  since  many  of  those  who  begin  with 
the  Latin  quit  the  same  after  spending  some  years  without 
having  made  any  great  proficiency,  and  what  they  have 
learnt  becomes  almost  useless,  so  that  their  time  has  been 
lost,  it  would  not  have  been  better  to  have  begun  with  the 
French,  proceeding  to  the  Italian,  etc.;  for,  tho',  after 
spending  the  same  time,  they  should  quit  the  study  of  lan- 
guages and  never  arrive  at  the  Latin,  they  would,  however, 
have  acquired  another  tongue  or  two,  that,  being  in  modern 
use,  might  be  serviceable  to  them  in  common  life. 

After  ten  years'  absence  from  Boston,  and  having  become 
easy  in  my  circumstances,  I  made  a  journey  thither  to  visit 
my  relations,  which  I  could  not  sooner  well  afford.  In 
returning,  I  call'd  at  Newport  to  see  my  brother,  then  settled 
thdre  with  his  printing-house.  Our  former  differences  were 
forgotten,  and  our  meeting  was  very  cordial  and  affec- 
tionate. He  was  fast  declining  in  his  health,  and  requested 
of  me  that,  in  case  of  his  death,  which  he  apprehended  not 
far  distant,  I  would  take  home  his  son,  then  but  ten  years 
of  age,  and  bring  him  up  to  the  printing  business.  This  I 
accordingly  perform'd,  sending  him  a  few  years  to  school 
before  I  took  him  into  the  office.  His  mother  carried  on 
the  business  till  he  was  grown  up,  when  I  assisted  him  with 
an  assortment  of  new  types,  those  of  his  father  being  in  a 
manner  worn  out.  Thus  it  was  that  I  made  my  brother 
ample  amends  for  the  service  I  had  depriv'd  him  of  by 
leaving  him  so  early. 

In  1736  I  lost  one  of  my  sons,  a  fine  boy  of  four  years 
old,  by  the  small-pox,  taken  in  the  common  way.  I  long 
regretted  bitterly,  and  still  regret  that  I  had  not  given  it 
to  him  by  inoculation.  This  I  mention  for  the  sake  of 
parents  who  omit  that  operation,  on  the  supposition  that 
they  should  never  forgive  themselves  if  a  child  died  under 
it;  my  example  showing  that  the  regret  may  be  the  same 
either  way,  and  that,  therefore,  the  safer  should  be  chosen. 

Our  club,  the  Junto,  was  found  so  useful,  and  afforded 
such  satisfaction  to  the  members,  that  several  were  desirous 


of  introducin, 
without   exce : 
number,  viz., 
a  rule  to  keep  ; 
observ'd;  the  i 
persons  for  ad 
find  it  difficult . 
against  any  adc 
in  writing  a  pr 
endeavor  to  fo^ 
respecting  quer 
connection  with 
the  improvemen 
of  our  institutic 
sentiments  of  th 
member  might  j 
was  to  report  to 
the  promotion  of 
extensive  recommt 
in  public  affairs,  a 
thro'  the  several  c 

The  project  j'o  «-- 
to  form  his  club,  but  l 
only  were  compleated,  w 
as  the  Vine,  the  Union,  t 
themselves,    and   afforded 
information,    and   instruction 
considerable   degree,    our   vie 
opinion  on  particular  occasion:^ 
instances  in  course  of  time  as  i. 

My  first  promotion  was  my  beix- 
of  the  General  Assembly.     The  cho. 
without  opposition;    but  the  year   foi  .. 
again  propos'd  (the  choice,  like  that  of  ..' 
annual),  a  new  member  made  a  long  speeu 
order   to   favour  some   other   candidate.     I    v 
chosen,  which  was  the  more  agreeable  to  me,  as, 
pay  for  the  immediate  service  as  clerk,  the  place  g 
better   opportunity   of   keeping  up   an   interest   amoi.^ 
members,  which  secur'd  to  me  the  business  o£  printing 


nal  jobbs  for 

itable. 

i  new  member, 

m,  with  talents 

nfluence  in  the 

I  did  not,  how- 

/  servile  respect 

method.    Hav- 

ain  very  scarce 

expressing  my 

ig  he  would  do 

'  days.    He  sent 

^t   a   week   with 

J  of  the  favour. 

to  me  (which  he 

civility;    and  he 

J  me  on  all  occa- 

<nd  our  friendship 

iv  instance   of  the 

ich  says,  ''He  that 

re  ready  to  do  you 

yje  obliged."    And  it 

iS  prudently  to  remove, 

J  inimical  proceedings. 

ite   governor  of   Virginia, 

Ag  dissatisfied  with  the  con- 

.phia,  respecting  some  negli- 

,:actitude  of  his  accounts,  took 

ad  offered  it  to  me.     I  accepted 

jf  great  advantage;    for,  tho'  the 

acilitated    the    correspondence    that 

^r,  increas'd  the  number  demanded,  as 

cments  to  be  inserted,  so  that  it  came  to 

jerable  income.    My  old  competitor's  news- 

proportionably,  and  I  was  satisfy'd  without 

.s  refusal,  while  postmaster,  to  permit  my  papers 

-led  by  the  riders.     Thus  he  suffer'd  greatly  from 

^lect  in  due  accounting;   and  I  mention  it  as  a  lesson 

.lose  young  men   who   may   be   employed  in   managing 

aairs  for  others,  that  they  should  alv^^ays  render  accounts. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  103 

and  make  remittances,  with  great  clearness  and  punctuality. 
The  character  of  observing  such  a  conduct  is  the  most 
powerful  of  all  recommendations  to  new  employments  and 
increase  of  business. 

I  began  now  to  turn  my  thoughts  a  little  to  public  affairs, 
beginning,  however,  with  small  matters.  The  city  watch 
was  one  of  the  first  things  that  I  conceiv'd  to  want  regula- 
tion. It  was  managed  by  the  constables  of  the  respective 
wards  in  turn;  the  constable  warned  a  number  of  house- 
keepers to  attend  him  for  the  night.  Those  who  chose  never 
to  attend  paid  him  six  shillings  a  year  to  be  excus'd,  which 
was  suppos'd  to  be  for  hiring  substitutes,  but  was,  in  reality, 
much  more  than  was  necessary  for  that  purpose,  and  made 
the  constableship  a  place  of  profit;  and  the  constable,  for  a 
little  drink,  often  got  such  ragamuffins  about  him  as  a  watch, 
that  respectable  housekeepers  did  not  choose  to  mix  with. 
Walking  the  rounds,  too,  was  often  neglected,  and  most  o£ 
the  nights  spent  in  tippling.  I  thereupon  wrote  a  paper  to 
be  read  in  Junto,  representing  these  irregularities,  but  insist- 
ing more  particularly  on  the  inequality  of  this  six-shilling 
tax  of  the  constables,  respecting  the  circumstances  of  those 
who  paid  it,  since  a  poor  widow  housekeeper,  all  whose 
property  to  be  guarded  by  the  watch  did  not  perhaps  exceed 
the  value  of  fifty  pounds,  paid  as  much  as  the  wealthiest 
merchant,  who  had  thousands  of  pounds'  worth  of  goods 
in  his  stores. 

On  the  whole,  I  proposed  as  a  more  effectual  watch,  the 
hiring  of  proper  men  to  serve  constantly  in  that  business; 
and  as  a  more  equitable  way  of  supporting  the  charge  the 
levying  a  tax  that  should  be  proportion'd  to  the  property. 
This  idea,  being  approv'd  by  the  Junto,  was  communicated 
to  the  other  clubs,  but  as  arising  in  each  of  them;  and 
though  the  plan  was  not  immediately  carried  into  execution, 
yet,  by  preparing  the  minds  of  people  for  the  change,  it 
paved  the  way  for  the  law  obtained  a  few  years  after,  v/hen 
the  members  of  our  clubs  were  grown  into  more  influence. 

About  this  time  I  wrote  a  paper  (first  to  be  read  in 
Junto,  but  it  was  afterward  publish'd)  on  the  different  acci- 
dents and  carelessnesses  by  which  houses  were  set  on  fire, 
with  cautions  against  them,,  and  means  proposed  of  avoiding 


104  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

them.  This  was  much  spoken  of  as  a  useful  piece,  and  gave 
rise  to  a  project,  which  soon  followed  it,  of  forming  a 
company  for  the  more  ready  extinguishing  of  fires,  and 
mutual  assistance  in  removing  and  securing  the  goods  when 
in  danger.  Associates  in  this  scheme  were  presently  found, 
amounting  to  thirty.  Our  articles  of  agreement  oblig'd 
every  member  to  keep  always  in  good  order,  and  fit  for  use, 
a  certain  number  of  leather  buckets,  with  strong  bags  and 
baskets  (for  packing  and  transporting  of  goods),  which 
were  to  be  brought  to  every  fire;  and  we  agreed  to  meet 
oace  a  month  and  spend  a  social  evening  together,  in  dis^ 
coursing  and  comm.unicating  such  ideas  as  occurred  to  us 
upon  the  subject  of  fires,  as  might  be  useful  in  our  conduct 
on  such  occasions. 

The  utiHty  of  this  institution  soon  appeared,  and  many 
more  desiring  to  be  admitted  than  we  thought  convenient  for 
one  company,  they  Vv^ere  advised  to  form  another,  which  was 
accordingly  done ;  and  this  went  on,  one  new  company  being 
formed  after  another,  till  they  became  so  numerous  as  to 
include  most  of  the  inhabitants  who  were  men  of  property; 
and  now,  at  the  time  of  my  writing  this,  tho'  upward  of 
fifty  years  since  its  establishment,  that  which  I  first  formed, 
called  the  Union  Fire  Company,  still  subsists  and  flourishes, 
tho'  the  first  members  are  all  deceas'd  but  myself  and  one, 
who  is  older  by  a  year  than  I  am.  The  small  fines  that  have 
been  paid  by  members  for  absence  at  the  monthly  meetings 
have  been  apply'd  to  the  purchase  of  fire-engines,  ladders, 
fire-hooks,  and  other  useful  implements  for  each  company, 
so  that  I  question  whether  there  is  a  city  in  the  world  better 
provided  with  the  means  of  putting  a  stop  to  beginning  con- 
flagrations ;  and,  in  fact,  since  these  institutions,  the  city  has 
never  lost  by  fire  more  than  one  or  two  houses  at  a  time, 
and  the  flames  have  often  been  extinguished  before  the 
house  in  which  they  began  has  been  half  consumed. 

In  1739  arrived  among  us  from  Ireland  the  Reverend  Mr. 
Whitefidd,  who  had  made  himself  remarkable  there  as  an 
itinerant  preacher.  He  was  at  first  permitted  to  preach  in 
some  of  our  churches;  but  the  clergy,  taking  a  dislike  to 
him,  soon  refus'd  him  their  p.ulpits,  and  he  was  oblig'd  to 
pre;a.ch  in  the  fields.   The  multitudes  of  all  sects  and  denomi- 


HIS  AUTOBIOGBAPHY  105 

nations  that  attended  his  sermons  were  enormous^  and  it 
was  matter  of  speculation  to  me,  who  was  one  of  the  num- 
ber, to  observe  the  extraordinary  influence  of  his  oratory  on 
his  hearers,  and  how  much  they  admir'd  and  respected  him, 
notwithstanding  his  common  abuse  of  them,  by  assuring 
them  that  they  were  naturally  half  beasts  and  half  devils. 
It  was  wonderful  to  see  the  change  soon  made  in  the  man- 
ners of  our  inhabitants.  From  being  thoughtless  or  indif- 
ferent about  religion,  it  seem'd  as  if  all  the  world  were 
growing  religious,  so  that  one  could  not  walk  thro'  the 
town  in  an  evening  without  hearing  psalms  sung  in  different 
families  of  every  street. 

And  it  being  found  inconvenient  to  assemble  in  the  open 
air,  subject  to  its  inclemencies,  the  building  of  a  house  to 
meet  in  was  no  sooner  propos'd,  and  persons  appointed  to 
receive  contributions,  but  sufficient  sums  were  soon  receiv'd 
to  procure  the  ground  and  erect  the  building,  which  was  one 
hundred  feet  long  and  seventy  broad,  about  the  size  of 
Westminster  Hall;  and  the  work  was  carried  on  with  such 
spirit  as  to  be  finished  in  a  much  shorter  time  than  could 
have  been  expected.  Both  house  and  ground  were  vested 
in  trustees,  expressly  for  the  use  of  any  preacher  of  any 
religious  persuasion  who  might  desire  to  say  something  to 
the  people  at  Philadelphia ;  the  design  in  building  not  being 
to  accommodate  any  particular  sect,  but  the  inhabitants  in 
general;  so  that  even  if  the  Mufti  of  Constantinople  were 
to  send  a  missionary  to  preach  Mohammedanism  to  us,  he 
would  find  a  pulpit  at  his  service. 

Mr.  Whitefield,  in  leaving  us,  went  preaching  all  the  way 
thro'  the  colonies  to  Georgia.  The  settlement  of  that 
province  had  lately  been  begun,  but,  instead  of  being  made 
with  hardy,  industrious  husbandmen,  accustomed  to  labor, 
the  only  people  fit  for  such  an  enterprise,  it  was  with  families 
of  broken  shop-keepers  and  other  insolvent  debtors,  many 
of  indolent  and  idle  habits,  taken  out  of  the  jails,  who,  being 
set  down  in  the  woods,  unqualified  for  clearing  land,  and 
unable  to  endure  the  hardships  of  a  new  settlement,  perished 
in  numbers,  leaving  many  helpless  children  unprovided  for. 
The  sight  of  their  miserable  situation  inspir'd  the  benevolent 
heart  of  Mr.  Whitefield  with  the  idea  of  building  an  Orphan 


106  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

House  there,  in  which  they  might  be  supported  and  educated. 
Returning  northward,  he  preach'd  up  this  charity,  and  made 
large  collections,  for  his  eloquence  had  a  wonderful  power 
over  the  hearts  and  purses  of  his  hearers,  of  which  I  myself 
was  an  instance. 

I  did  not  disapprove  of  the  design,  but,  as  Georgia  was 
then  destitute  of  materials  and  workmen,  and  it  was  pro- 
posed to  send  them  from  Philadelphia  at  a  great  expense, 
I  thought  it  would  have  been  better  to  have  built  the  house 
here,  and  brought  the  children  to  it.  This  I  advis'd;  but 
he  was  resolute  in  his  first  project,  rejected  my  counsel,  and 
I  therefore  refus'd  to  contribute.  I  happened  soon  after  to 
attend  one  of  his  sermions,  in  the  course  of  which  I  per- 
ceived he  intended  to  finish  with  a  collection,  and  I  silently 
resolved  he  should  get  nothing  from  me.  I  had  in  my  pocket 
a  handful  of  copper  money,  three  or  four  silver  dollars,  and 
five  pistoles  in  gold.  As  he  proceeded  I  began  to  soften, 
and  concluded  to  give  the  coppers.  Another  stroke  of  his 
oratory  made  me  asham'd  of  that,  and  determin'd  me  to 
give  the  silver ;  and  he  finished  so  admirably,  that  I  empty'd 
my  pocket  wholly  into  the  collector's  dish,  gold  and  all.  At 
this  sermon  there  was  also  one  of  our  club,  who,  being  of 
my  sentiments  respecting  the  building  in  Georgia,  and  sus- 
pecting a  collection  might  be  intended,  had,  by  precaution, 
emptied  his  pockets  before  he  cam.e  from  home.  Towards 
the  conclusion  of  the  discourse,  how^ever,  he  felt  a  strong 
desire  to  give,  and  apply'd  to  a  neighbour,  who  stood  near 
him,  to  borrow  some  money  for  the  purpose.  The  applica- 
tion was  unfortunately  [made]  to  perhaps  the  only  man  in 
the  company  who  had  the  firmness  not  to  be  affected  by  the 
preacher.  His  ansvv^er  was,  ^' At  any  other  time,  Friend 
Hopkinson,  I  would  lend  to  thee  freely;  hut  not  now,  for 
thee  seems  to  he  out  of  thy  right  senses." 

Some  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  enemies  affected  to  suppose  that 
he  would  apply  these  collections  to  his  own  private  emolu- 
ment; but  I  who  was  intimately  acquainted  v/ith  him  (being 
employed  in  printing  his  Sermons  and  Journals,  etc.),  never 
had  the  least  suspicion  of  his  integrity,  but  am  to  this  day 
decidedly  of  opinion  that  he  was  in  all  his  conduct  a  per- 
fectly honest  man;  and  metliinks  my  testimony  in  his  favour 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  107 

ought  to  have  the  more  weight,  as  we  had  no  rehgious  con- 
nection. He  us'd,  indeed,  sometimes  to  pray  for  my  conver- 
sion, but  never  had  the  satisfaction  of  believing  that  his 
prayers  were  heard.  Ours  was  a  mere  civil  friendship,  sin- 
cere on  both  sides,  and  lasted  to  his  death. 

The  following  instance  will  show  something  of  the  terms 
on  which  we  stood.  Upon  one  of  his  arrivals  from  England 
at  Boston,  he  wrote  to  me  that  he  should  come  soon  to 
Philadelphia,  but  knew  not  where  he  could  lodge  when  there, 
as  he  understood  his  old  friend  and  host,  Mr.  Benezet,  was 
removed  to  Germantown.  My  answer  was,  "  You  know  my 
house;  if  you  can  make  shift  with  its  scanty  accommoda- 
tions, you  will  be  most  heartily  welcome."  He  reply'd,  that 
if  I  made  that  kind  offer  for  Christ's  sake,  I  should  not  miss 
of  a  reward.  And  I  returned,  "Don't  let  me  he  mistaken; 
it  was  not  for  Christ's  sake,  hut  for  your  sake."  One  of  our 
common  acquaintance  jocosely  remark'd,  that,  knowing  it  to 
be  the  custom  of  the  saints,  when  they  received  any  favour, 
to  shift  the  burden  of  the  obligation  from  off  their  own 
shoulders,  and  place  it  in  heaven,  I  had  contrived  to  fix  it 
on  earth. 

The  last  time  I  saw  Mr.  Whitefield  was  in  London,  when 
he  consulted  me  about  his  Orphan  House  concern,  and  his 
purpose  of  appropriating  it  to  the  establishment  of  a  college. 

He  had  a  loud  and  clear  voice,  and  articulated  his  words 
and  sentences  so  perfectly,  that  he  might  be  heard  and 
understood  at  a  great  distance,  especially  as  his  auditories, 
however  numerous,  observ'd  the  most  exact  silence.  He 
preach'd  one  evening  from  the  top  of  the  Court-house  steps, 
which  are  in  the  middle  of  Market-street,  and  on  the  west 
side  of  Second-street,  which  crosses  it  at  right  angles.  Both 
streets  were  fill'd  with  his  hearers  to  a  considerable  distance. 
Being  among  the  hindmost  in  Market-street,  I  had  the 
curiosity  to  learn  how  far  he  could  be  heard,  by  retiring 
backwards  down  the  street  towards  the  river;  and  I  found 
his  voice  distinct  till  I  came  near  Front-street,  when  some 
noise  in  that  street  obscur'd  it.  Imagining  then  a  semi- 
circle, of  which  my  distance  should  be  the  radius,  and  that 
it  were  fill'd  with  auditors,  to  each  of  whom  I  allow'd  two 
square  feet,  I  computed  that  he  might  well  be  heard  by 


108  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

more  than  thirty  thousand.  This  reconcil'd  me  to  the  news- 
paper accounts  of  his  having  preach'd  to  twenty-five  thousand 
people  in  the  fields,  and  to  the  antient  histories  of  generals 
haranguing  whole  armies,  of  which  I  had  sometimes  doubted. 

By  hearing  him  often,  T  came  to  distinguish  easily  between 
sermons  newly  compos'd,  and  those  which  he  had  often 
preach'd  in  the  course  of  his  travels.  His  delivery  of  the 
latter  was  so  improv'd  by  frequent  repetitions  that  every 
accent,  every  em.phasis,  every  modulation  of  voice,  was  so 
perfectly  well  turn'd  and  well  plac'd,  that,  without  being  in- 
terested in  the  subject,  one  could  not  help  being  pleas'd  with 
the  discourse;  a  pleasure  of  much  the  same  kind  with  that 
receiv'd  from  an  excellent  piece  of  musick.  This  is  an 
advantage  itinerant  preachers  have  over  those  who  are  sta- 
tionary, as  the  latter  can  not  well  improve  their  delivery  of 
a  sermon  by  so  many  rehearsals. 

Kis  writing  and  printing  from  time  to  time  gave  great 
advantage  to  his  enemies;  unguarded  expressions,  and  even 
erroneous  opinions,  delivered  in  preaching,  might  have  been 
afterwards  explain'd  or  qualifi'd  by  supposing  others  that 
might  have  accompani'd  them^  or  they  might  have  been 
deny'd;  but  lifera  scripta  manet.  Critics  attack'd  his  writings 
violently,  and  with  so  much  appearance  of  reason  as  to 
diminish  the  number  of  his  votaries  and  prevent  their  en- 
crease;  so  that  I  am  of  opinion  if  he  had  never  written  any 
thing,  he  would  have  left  behind  him  a  much  more  num.erous 
and  important  sect,  and  his  reputation  might  in  that  case 
have  been  still  growing,  even  after  his  death,  as  there  being 
nothing  of  his  writing  on  which  to  found  a  censure  and  give 
him  a  lower  character,  his  proselytes  would  be  left  at  liberty 
to  feign  for  him  as  great  a  variety  of  excellence  as  their 
enthusiastic  admiration  might  wish  him  to  have  possessed. 

My  business  was  now  continually  augmenting,  and  my 
circumstances  growing  daily  easier,  my  newspaper  having 
become  very  profitable,  as  being  for  a  time  alm^ost  the  only 
one  in  this  and  the  neighbouring  provinces.  I  experienced, 
too,  the  truth  of  the  observation,  ''  that  after  getting  the  iirst 
hundred  pounds  it  is  more  easy  to  get  the  second,"  money 
itself  being  of  a  prolific  nature. 

The  partnership  at  Carolina  having  succeeded,  I  was  en- 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  109 

courag'd  to  engage  in  others,  and  to  promote  several  of  my 
workmen,  who  had  behaved  well,  by  establishing  them  with 
printing-houses  in  different  colonies,  on  the  same  terms  with 
that  in  Carolina.  Most  of  them  did  well,  being  enabled  at 
the  end  of  our  term,  six  years,  to  purchase  the  types  of  me 
and  go  on  working  for  themselves,  by  which  means  several 
families  were  raised.  Partnerships  often  finish  in  quarrels; 
but  I  was  happy  in  this,  that  mine  were  all  carried  on  and 
ended  amicably,  owing,  I  think,  a  good  deal  to  the  precau- 
tion of  having  very  explicitly  settled,  in  our  articles,  every 
thing  to  be  done  by  or  expected  from  each  partner,  so  that 
there  was  nothing  to  dispute,  which  precaution  I  would 
therefore  recommend  to  all  who  enter  into  partnerships ;  for, 
whatever  esteem  partners  may  have  for,  and  confidence  in 
each  other  at  the  time  of  the  contract,  little  jealousies  and 
disgusts  may  arise,  with  ideas  of  inequality  in  the  care  and 
burden  of  the  business,  etc.,  which  are  attended  often  with 
breach  of  friendship  and  of  the  connection,  perhaps  with 
lawsuits  and  other  disagreeable  consequences. 

I  had,  on  the  whole,  abundant  reason  to  be  satisfied  with 
my  being  established  in  Pennsylvania.  There  were,  however, 
two  things  that  I  regretted,  there  being  no  provision  for 
defense,  nor  for  a  compleat  education  of  youth;  no  militia, 
nor  any  college.  I  therefore,  in  1743,  drew  up  a  proposal 
for  establishing  an  academy;  and  at  that  time,  thinking  the 
Reverend  Mr.  Peters,  who  was  out  of  employ,  a  fit  person 
to  superintend  such  an  institution,  I  communicated  the  project 
to  him;  but  he,  having  more  profitable  views  in  the  service 
of  the  proprietaries,  which  succeeded,  declin'd  the  under- 
taking; and,  not  knowing  another  at  that  time  suitable  for 
such  a  trust,  I  let  the  scheme  lie  a  while  dormant.  I  suc- 
ceeded better  the  next  year,  1744,  in  proposing  and  establish- 
ing a  Philosophical  Society.  The  paper  I  wrote  for  that 
purpose  will  be  found  among  my  writings,  when  collected. 

With  respect  to  defense,  Spain  having  been  several  years 
at  war  against  Great  Britain,  and  being  at  length  joln'd  by 
France,  which  brought  us  into  great  danger;  and  the 
laboured  and  long-continued  endeavour  of  our  govenKJr, 
Thomas,  to  prevail  with  our  Quaker  Assembly  to  pass  a 
militia  law,  and  make  other  provisions  for  the  security  of 


110  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

the  province,  having  proved  abortive,  I  determined  to  tr^ 
•what  might  be  done  by  a  voluntary  association  of  the  people. 
To  promote  this,  I  first  wrote  and  published  a  pamphlet, 
entitled  Plain  Truth,  in  which  I  stated  our  defenceless 
situation  in  strong  lights,  with  the  necessity  of  union  and 
discipline  for  our  defense,  and  promis'd  to  propose  in  a  few 
days  an  association,  to  be  generally  signed  for  that  purpose. 
The  pamphlet  had  a  sudden  and  surprising  effect.  I  was 
call'd  upon  for  the  instrument  of  association,  and  having 
settled  the  draft  of  it  with  a  few  friends,  I  appointed  a 
meeting  of  the  citizens  in  the  large  building  before  mentioned. 
The  house  was  pretty  full;  I  had  prepared  a  number  of 
printed  copies,  and  provided  pens  and  ink  dispers'd  all  over 
the  room.  I  harangued  them  a  little  on  the  subject,  read  the 
paper,  and  explained  it,  and  then  distributed  the  copies,  which 
were  eagerly  signed,  not  the  least  objection  being  made. 

When  the  company  separated,  and  the  papers  were  col- 
lected, we  found  above  twelve  hundred  hards;  and,  other 
copies  being  dispersed  in  the  country,  the  subscribers 
amounted  at  length  to  upward  of  ten  thousand.  These  all 
furnished  themselves  as  soon  as  they  could  with  arms,  formed 
themselves  into  companies  and  regiments,  chose  their  own 
officers,  and  met  every  week  to  be  instructed  in  the  manual 
exercise,  and  other  parts  of  military  discipline.  The  women, 
by  subscriptions  among  themselves,  provided  silk  colors, 
which  they  presented  to  the  companies,  painted  with  different 
devices  and  mottos,  which  I  supplied. 

The  officers  of  the  companies  composing  the  Philadelphia 
regiment,  being  met,  chose  me  for  their  colonel;  but,  con- 
ceiving myself  unfit,  I  declin'd  that  station,  and  recom- 
mended Mr.  Lawrence,  a  fine  person,  and  man  of  influence, 
who  was  accordingly  appointed.  I  then  proposed  a  lottery 
to  defray  the  expense  of  building  a  battery  below  the  town, 
and  furnishing  it  with  cannon.  It  filled  expeditiously,  and 
the  battery  was  soon  erected,  the  merlons  being  fram'd  of 
logs  and  fiU'd  with  earth.  We  bought  some  old  cannon 
from  Boston,  but,  these  not  being  sufficient,  v/e  wrote  to 
England  for  more,  soliciting,  at  the  same  time,  our  proprie- 
taries for  some  assistance,  tho'  without  much  expectation  o£ 
obtaining  it. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  111 

Meanwhile,  Colonel  Lawrence,  William  Allen,  Abram 
Taylor,  Esqr.,  and  myself  were  sent  to  New  York  hy  the 
associators,  comm.ission'd  to  borrow  some  cannon  of  Gov- 
ernor Clinton.  He  at  first  refus'd  us  peremptorily;  but  at 
dinner  with  his  council,  where  there  was  great  drinking  of 
Madeira  wine,  as  the  custom  of  that  place  then  was,  he 
softened  by  degrees,  and  said  he  would  lend  us  six.  After 
a  few  more  bumpers  he  advanced  to  ten;  and  at  length  he 
very  good-naturedly  conceded  eighteen.  They  were  fine 
cannon,  eighteen-pounders,  with  their  carriages,  which  we 
soon  transported  and  mounted  on  our  battery,  where  the 
associators  kept  a  nightly  guard  while  the  war  lasted,  and 
among  the  rest  I  regularly  took  my  turn  of  duty  there  as  a 
common  soldier. 

My  activity  in  these  operations  was  agreeable  to  the  gov- 
ernor and  council;  they  took  me  into  confidence,  and  I 
was  consulted  by  them  in  every  measure  wherein  their  con- 
currence was  thought  useful  to  the  association.  Calling  in 
the  aid  of  religion,  I  proposed  to  them  the  proclaiming  a 
fast,  to  promote  reformation,  and  implore  the  blessing  of 
Heaven  on  our  undertaking.  They  embrac'd  the  motion; 
but,  as  it  was  the  first  fast  ever  thought  of  in  the  province, 
the  secretary  had  no  precedent  from  which  to  draw  the 
proclamation.  My  education  in  New  England,  where  a  fast 
is  proclaimed  every  year,  was  here  of  some  advantage:  I 
drev/  it  in  the  accustomed  stile,  it  was  translated  into  Ger- 
man, printed  in  both  languages,  and  divulg'd  thro'  the 
province.  This  gave  the  clergy  of  the  different  sects  an 
opportunity  of  influencing  their  congregations  to  join  in  the 
association,  and  it  would  probably  have  been  general  among 
all  but  Quakers  if  the  peace  had  not  soon  interven'd. 

It  was  thought  by  some  of  my  friends  that,  by  my  activity 
in  these  affairs,  I  should  offend  that  sect,  and  thereby  lose 
my  interest  in  the  Assembly  of  the  province,  where  they 
formed  a  great  majority.  A  young  gentleman  who  had  like- 
wise some  friends  in  the  House,  and  v/ished  to  succeed  me  as 
their  clerk,  acquainted  me  that  it  was  decided  to  displace  me 
at  the  next  election ;  and  he,  therefore,  in  good  will,  advis'd 
me  to  resign,  as  more  consistent  with  my  honour  than  being 
turn'd  out.     My  answer  to  him  was,  that  I  had  read  or 


112  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN  | 

heard  of  some  public  man  who  made  it  a  rule  never  to  a$k 
for  an  office,  and  never  to  refuse  one  when  offer'd  to  him. 
"  I  approve/'  says  I,  "  of  his  rule,  and  will  practice  it  with 
a  small  addition;  I  shall  never  ask,  never  refuse,  nor  ever 
resign  an  office.  If  they  will  have  my  office  of  clerk  to  dis-' 
pose  of  to  another,  they  shall  take  it  from  me.  I  will  not, 
by  giving  it  up,  lose  my  right  of  some  time  or  other  making 
reprisals  on  my  adversaries."  I  heard,  however,  no  more 
of  this;  I  was  chosen  again  unanimously  as  usual  at  the 
next  election.  Possibly,  as  they  dislik'd  my  late  intimacy 
with  the  mem.bers  of  council,  who  had  join'd  the  governors 
in  all  the  disputes  about  military  preparations,  with  which 
the  House  had  long  been  harass'd,  they  might  have  been 
pleas'd  if  I  would  voluntarily  have  left  them;  but  they  did 
not  care  to  displace  me  on  account  merely  of  my  zeal  for 
the  association,  and  they  could  not  well  give  another  reason. 

Indeed  I  had  some  cause  to  believe  that  the  defense  of 
the  country  was  not  disagreeable  to  any  of  them,  provided 
they  were  not  requir'd  to  assist  in  it.  And  I  found  that  a 
much  greater  number  of  them  than  I  could  have  imagined, 
tho'  against  offensive  war,  were  clearly  for  the  defensive. 
Many  pamphlets  pro  and  con  were  publish'd  on  the  subject, 
and  some  by  good  Quakers,  in  favour  of  defense,  which  I 
believe  convinc'd  most  of  their  younger  people. 

A  transaction  in  our  fire  company  gave  me  some  insight 
into  their  prevailing  sentiments.  It  had  been  proposed  that 
we  should  encourage  the  scheme  for  building  a  battery  by 
laying  out  the  present  stock,  then  about  sixty  pounds,  in 
tickets  of  the  lottery.  By  our  rules,  no  money  could  be 
dispos'd  of  till  the  next  meeting  after  the  proposal.  The 
company  consisted  of  thirty  members,  of  which  twenty-two 
were  Quakers,  and  eight  only  of  other  persuasions.  We  eight 
punctually  attended  the  meeting;  but,  tho'  we  thought  that 
some  of  the  Quakers  would  join  us,  v/e  were  by  no  mxeans 
sure  of  a  majority.  Only  one  Quaker,  Mr.  James  Morris, 
appear'd  to  oppose  the  measure.  He  expressed  much  sorrow 
that  it  had  ever  been  proposed,  as  he  said  Friends  were  all 
against  it,  and  it  would  create  such  discord  as  might  break 
up  the  company.  We  told  him  that  we  saw  no  reason  for 
that;    we  were  the  minority,  and  if  Friends  were  against 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  113 

the  measure,  and  outvoted  us,  we  must  and  should,  agreeably 
to  the  usage  of  all  societies,  submit.  When  the  hour  for 
business  arriv'd  it  was  mov'd  to  put  the  vote;  he  allo-'-v'd  we 
might  then  do  it  by  the  rules,  but,  as  he  could  assure  us 
that  a  number  of  members  intended  to  be  present  for  the 
purpose  of  opposing  it,  it  would  be  but  candid  to  allow  a 
little  time  for  their  appearing. 

While  we  were  disputing  this,  a  waiter  came  to  tell  me 
two  gentlemen  below  desir'd  to  speak  with  me.  I  went  down, 
and  found  they  were  two  of  our  Quaker  members.  They 
told  me  there  were  eight  of  them  assembled  at  a  tavern 
just  by;  that  they  were  determin'd  to  come  and  vote  with 
us  if  there  should  be  occasion,  which  they  hop'd  would  not 
be  the  case,  and  desir'd  we  would  not  call  for  their  assistance 
if  we  could  do  without  it,  as  their  voting  for  such  a  measure 
might  embroil  them  with  their  elders  and  friends.  Being 
thus  secure  of  a  majority,  I  went  up,  and  after  a  little  seem- 
ing hesitation,  agreed  to  a  delay  of  another  hour.  This  Mr. 
Morris  allow'd  to  be  extreamly  fair.  Not  one  of  his  oppos- 
ing friends  appear'd,  at  which  he  express'd  great  surprize; 
and,  at  the  expiration  of  the  hour,  we  carry'd  the  resolution 
eight  to  one ;  and  as,  of  the  twenty-two  Quakers,  eight  were 
ready  to  vote  with  us,  and  thirteen,  by  their  absence,  mani- 
fested that  they  were  not  inclin'd  to  oppose  the  measure, 
I  afterv/ard  estimated  the  proportion  of  Quakers  sincerely 
against  defense  as  one  to  twenty-one  only;  for  these  were 
all  regular  members  of  that  society,  and  in  good  reputation 
among  them,  and  had  due  notice  of  what  was  propos'd  at 
that  meeting. 

The  honorable  and  learned  Mr.  Logan,  who  had  always 
been  of  that  sect,  was  one  who  wrote  an  address  to  them, 
declaring  his  approbation  of  defensive  war,  and  supporting 
his  opinion  by  many  strong  argum.ents.  He  put  into  my 
hands  sixty  pounds  to  be  laid  out  in  lottery  tickets  for  the 
battery,  with  directions  to  apply  what  prizes  might  be  drawn 
wholly  to  that  service.  He  told  me  the  following  anecdote 
of  his  old  master,  V/illiam  Penn,  respecting  defense.  He 
came  over  from  England,  when  a  young  man,  with  that 
proprietary,  and  as  his  secretary.  It  was  v/ar-time,  and  their 
ship  3?vas  chas'd  by  an  armed  vessel,  suppos'd  to  be  an  enemy. 


114  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

Their  captain  prepar'd  for  defense;  but  told  William  Penn, 
and  his  company  of  Quakers,  that  he  did  not  expect  their 
assistance,  and  they  might  retire  into  the  cabin,  which  they 
did,  except  James  Logan,  who  chose  to  stay  upon  deck,  and 
was  quarter'd  to  a  gun.  The  suppos'd  enemy  prov'd  a 
friend,  so  there  was  no  fighting;  but  when  the  secretary 
went  down  to  communicate  the  intelligence,  William  Penn 
rebuk'd  him  severely  *f or  staying  upon  deck,  and  undertaking 
to  assist  in  defending  the  vessel,  contrary  to  the  principles  of 
Friends,  especially  as  it  had  not  been  required  by  the  cap- 
tain. This  reproof^  being  before  all  the  company,  piqu'd  the 
secretary,  who  answer'd,  ''I  being  thy  servant,  why  did  thee 
not  order  me  to  come  down?  But  thee  was  willing  enough 
that  I  should  stay  and  help  to  fight  the  ship  when  thee  thought 
there   was  danger." 

My  being  many  years  in  the  Assembly,  the  majority  of 
which  were  constantly  Quakers,  gave  me  frequent  oppor- 
tunities of  seeing  the  embarrassment  given  them  by  their 
principle  against  war,  whenever  application  was  made  to 
them,  by  order  of  the  crown,  to  grant  aids  for  military  pur- 
poses. They  were  unwilling  to  offend  government,  on  the 
one  hand,  by  a  direct  refusal ;  and  their  friends,  the  body 
of  the  Quakers,  on  the  other^  by  a  compliance  contrary  to 
their  principles;  hence  a  variety  of  evasions  to  avoid  com- 
plying, and  modes  of  disguising  the  com.pliance  when  it  be- 
came unavoidable.  The  com.mon  mode  at  last  was,  to  grant 
money  under  the  phrase  of  its  being  ''for  the  king's  use" 
and  never  to  inquire  how  it  was  applied. 

But,  if  the  demand  was  not  directly  from  the  crown,  that 
phrase  was  found  not  so  proper,  and  some  other  was  to  be 
invented.  As,  when  powder  was  wanting  (I  think  it  wa3 
for  the  garrison  at  Louisburg),  and  the  government  of  New 
England  solicited  a  grant  of  some  from  Pennsilvania,  which 
was  much  urg'd  on  the  House  by  Governor  Thomas,  they 
could  not  grant  money  to  buy  powder,  because  that  was  an 
ingredient  of  war;  but  they  voted  an  aid  to  New  England 
of  three  thousand  pounds,  to  be  put  into  the  hands  of  the 
governor,  and  appropriated  it  for  the  purchasing  of  bread, 
flour,  wheat,  or  other  grain.  Some  of  the  council,  desirous 
of  giving  the  House  still  further  embarrassment,  advis'd 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  115 

the  governor  not  to  accept  provision,  as  not  being  the  thing 
he  had  demanded ;  but  he  reply'd,  "  I  shall  take  the  money, 
for  I  understand  very  well  their  meaning;  other  grain  is 
gunpowder,"  which  he  accordingly  bought,  and  they  never 
objected  to  it/° 

It  was  in  allusion  to  this  fact  that,  when  in  our  fire  com- 
pany we  feared  the  success  of  our  proposal  in  favour  of  the 
lottery,  and  I  had  said  to  my  friend  Mr,  Syng,  one  of  our 
members,  "  If  we  fail,  let  us  move  the  purchase  of  a  fire- 
engine  with  the  money;  the  Quakers  can  have  no  objection 
to  that;  and  then,  if  you  nominate  me  and  I  you  as  a  commit- 
tee for  that  purpose,  we  will  buy  a  great  gun,  which  is  cer- 
tainly a  -fire-engine/'  "  I  see,"  says  he,  "  you  have  imiprov'd 
by  being  so  long  in  the  Assembfy;  your  equivocal  project 
would  be  just  a  match  for  their  wheat  or  other  grain." 

These  embarrassm^ents  that  the  Quakers  suffer'd  from 
having  establish'd  and  published  it  as  one  of  their  principles 
that  no  kind  of  war  was  lawful,  and  which,  being  once  pub- 
lished, they  could  not  afterwards,  however  they  might  change 
their  minds,  easily  get  rid  of,  reminds  mc  of  what  I  think  a 
more  prudent  conduct  in  another  sect  among  tis,  that  of  the 
Dunkers.  I  v/as  acquainted  with  one  of  its  founders,  Michael 
Welfare,  soon  after  it  appear'd.  He  complain'd  to  me  that 
they  were  grievously  calumniated  by  the  zealots  of  other 
persuasions,  and  charg'd  with  abominable  principles  and  prac- 
tices, to  which  they  were  utter  strangers.  I  told  him  this 
had  always  been  the  case  with  new  sects,  and  that,  to  put 
a  stop  to  such  abuse,  I  imagin'd  it  might  be  well  to  publish 
the  articles  of  their  belief,  and  the  rules  of  their  discipline. 
He  said  that  it  had  been  propos'd  among  them,  but  not 
agreed  to,  for  this  reason :  "  When  we  were  first  drawn 
together  as  a  society,"  says  he,  "  it  had  pleased  God  to 
enlighten  our  minds  so  far  as  to  see  that  some  doctrines, 
which  we  once  esteem.ed  truths,  v/ere  errors;  and  that 
others,  which  we  had  esteem.ed  errors,  were  real  truths. 
From  time  to  time  He  has  been  pleased  to  afford  us  farther 
light,  and  our  principles  have  been  improving,  and  our  errors 
diminishing.  Now  we  are  not  sure  that  we  are  arrived  at 
the  end  of  this  progression,  and  at  the  perfection  of  spiritual 
1°  See  the  votes.— [Mar^.  note.'i 


116  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

or  theological  knowledge;  and  we  fear  that,  if  we  should 
once  print  our  confession  of  faith,  we  should  feel  ourselves 
as  if  bound  and  confin'd  by  it,  and  perhaps  be  unwilling 
to  receive  farther  improvement,  and  our  successors  still 
more  so,  as  conceiving  what  we  their  elders  and  founders 
had  done,  to  be  something  sacred,  never  to  be  departed 
from." 

This  modesty  in  a  sect  is  perhaps  a  singular  instance  in 
the  history  of  mankind,  every  other  sect  supposing  itself  in 
possession  of  all  truth,  and  that  those  who  differ  are  so  far 
in  the  wrong;  like  a  man  traveling  in  foggy  weather,  those 
at  some  distance  before  him  on  the  road  he  sees  wrapped 
up  in  the  fog,  as  well  as  those  behind  him,  and  also  the 
people  in  the  fields  on  each  side,  but  near  him  all  appears 
clear,  tho'  in  truth  he  is  as  much  in  the  fog  as  any  of  them. 
To  avoid  this  kind  of  embarrassment,  the  Quakers  have  of 
late  years  been  gradually  declining  the  public  service  in  the 
Assembly  and  in  the  magistracy,  choosing  rather  to  quit 
their  power  than  their  principle. 

In  order  of  time,  I  should  have  mentioned  before,  that 
having,  in  1742,  invented  an  open  stove  for  the  better  warm- 
ing of  rooms,  and  at  the  same  time  saving  fuel,  as  the  fresh 
air  admitted  was  warmed  in  entering,  I  made  a  present  of 
the  model  to  Mr.  Robert  Grace,  one  of  my  early  friends, 
who,  having  an  iron-furnace,  found  the  casting  of  the  plates 
for  these  stoves  a  profitable  thing,  as  they  were  growing  in 
demand.  To  promote  that  demand,  I  wrote  and  published  a 
^|5amphlet,  entitled  "An  Account  of  the  new-invented 
^Pennsylvania  Fireplaces;  wherein  their  Construction  and 
Manner  of  Operation  is  particularly  explained;  their 
Advantages  above  every  other  Method  of  warming  Rooms 
demonstrated;  and  all  Objections  that  have  been  raised 
against  the  Use  of  them  answered  and  obviated"  etc.  This 
pamphlet  had  a  good  effect.  Gov'r.  Thomas  was  so  pleas'd 
with  the  construction  of  this  stove,  as  described  in  it,  that 
he  offered  to  give  me  a  patent  for  the  sole  vending  of  them 
for  a  term  of  years ;  but  I  declin'd  it  from  a  principle  which 
has  ever  Vv^eighed  with  me  on  such  occasions,  viz..  That,  as 
we  enjoy  great  advantages  from  the  inventions  of  others, 
'we  should  be  glad  of  an  opportunity  to  serve  others  by  any 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  117 

invention    of   ours;     and    this   we    should   do    freely    and 
generously. 

An  ironmonger  in  London  however,  assuming  a  good  deal 
of  my  pamphlet,  and  working  it  up  into  his  own,  and  making 
some  small  changes  in  the  machine,  which  rather  hurt  its 
operation,  got  a  patent  for  it  there,  and  made,  as  I  was  told, 
a  little  fortune  by  it.  And  this  is  not  the  only  instance  of 
patents  taken  out  for  m.y  inventions  by  others,  tho'  not 
always  with  the  same  success,  which  I  never  contested,  as 
having  no  desire  of  profiting  by  patents  myself,  and  hating 
disputes.  The  use  of  these  fireplaces  in  very  many  houses, 
both  of  this  and  the  neighbouring  colonies,  has  been,  and  is, 
a  great  saving  of  wood  to  the  inhabitants. 

Peace  being  concluded,  and  the  association  business  there- 
fore at  an  end,  I  turn'd  my  thoughts  again  to  the  affair  of 
establishing  an  academy.  The  first  step  I  took  was  to  asso- 
ciate in  the  design  a  number  of  active  friends,  of  whom  the 
Junto  furnished  a  good  part;  the  next  was  to  v/rite  and 
publish  a  pamphlet,  entitled  Proposals  Relating  to  the 
Education  of  Youth  in  Pennsylvania.  This  I  distributed 
among  the  principal  inhabitants  gratis;  and  as  soon  as  I 
could  suppose  their  minds  a  little  prepared  by  the  perusal 
of  it,  I  set  on  foot  a  subscription  for  opening  and  supporting 
an  academy;  it  was  to  be  paid  in  quotas  yearly  for  five 
years;  by  so  dividing  it,  I  judg'd  the  subscription  might  be 
larger,  and  I  believe  it  was  so,  amounting  to  no  less,  if  I 
remember  right,  than  five  thousand  pounds. 

In  the  introduction  to  these  proposals,  I  stated  their  pub- 
lication, not  as  an  act  of  mine,  but  of  some  puhlick-spirifed 
gentlemen,  avoiding  as  much  as  I  could,  according  to  m;^ 
usual  rule,  the  presenting  myself  to  the  publick  as  the  author 
of  any  scheme  for  their  benefit. 

The  subscribers,  to  carry  the  project  into  immediate 
execution,  chose  out  of  their  number  twenty-four  trustees, 
and  appointed  Mr.  Francis,  then  attorney-general,  and  my- 
self to  draw  up  constitutions  for  the  government  of  the 
academy;  which  being  done  and  signed,  a  house  v/as  hired, 
masters  engag'd,  and  the  schools  opened,  I  think,  in  the 
same  year,  1749. 

The  scholars  increasing  fast,  the  house  was  soon  found 


118  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

too  small,  and  we  were  looking  out  for  a  piece  of  ground, 
properly  situated,  with  intention  to  build,  when  Providence 
threw  into  our  way  a  large  house  ready  built,  which,  with  a 
few  alterations,  might  well  serve  our  purpose.  This  was 
the  building  before  mentioned,  erected  by  the  hearers  of  Mr. 
Whitefield,  and  was  obtained  for  us  in  the  following  manner. 

It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  contributions  to  this  building 
being  made  by  people  of  different  sects,  care  was  taken  in 
the  nomination  of  trustees,  in  whom  the  building  and  ground 
was  to  be  vested,  that  a  predominancy  should  not  be  given 
to  any  sect,  lest  in  time  that  predominancy  might  be  a  means 
of  appropriating  the  whole  to  the  use  of  such  sect,  contrary 
to  the  original  intention.  It  was  therefore  that  one  of  each 
sect  was  appointed,  viz.,  one  Church-of-England  man,  one 
Presbyterian,  one  Baptist,  one  Moravian,  etc.,  those,  in  case 
of  vacancy  by  death,  were  to  fill  it  by  election  from  among 
the  contributors.  The  Moravian  happen'd  not  to  please  his 
colleagues,  and  on  his  death  they  resolved  to  have  no  other 
of  that  sect.  The  difficulty  then  was,  how  to  avoid  having 
two  of  some  other  sect,  by  means  of  the  new  choice. 

Several  persons  were  named,  and  for  that  reason  not 
agreed  to.  At  length  one  mentioned  me,  with  the  observation 
that  I  was  merely  an  honest  man,  and  of  no  sect  at  all, 
which  prevail'd  with  them  to  chuse  me.  The  enthusiasm 
which  existed  when  the  house  was  built  had  long  since 
abated,  and  its  trustees  had  not  been  able  to  procure  fresh 
contributions  for  paying  the  ground-rent,  and  discharging 
some  other  debts  the  building  had  occasion'd,  which  embar- 
rass'd  them  greatly.  Being  now  a  member  of  both  setts  of 
trustees,  that  for  the  building  and  that  for  the  Academy, 
I  had  a  good  opportunity  of  negotiating  with  both,  and 
brought  them  finally  to  an  agreement,  by  which  the  trustees 
for  the  building  were  to  cede  it  to  those  of  the  academy,  the 
latter  undertaking  to  discharge  the  debt,  to  keep  for  ever 
open  in  the  building  a  large  hall  for  occasional  preachers, 
according  to  the  original  intention,  and  maintain  a  free- 
school  for  the  instruction  of  poor  children.  Writings  were 
accordingly  drawn,  and  on  paying  the  debts  the  trustees  of 
the  academy  were  put  in  possession  of  the  premises;  and 
by  dividing  the  great  and  lofty  hall  into  stories,  and  dif- 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  119 

ferent  rooms  above  and  below  for  the  several  schools,  and 
purchasing  some  additional  ground,  the  whole  was  soon 
made  fit  for  our  purpose,  and  the  scholars  remov'd  into  the 
building.  The  care  and  trouble  of  agreeing  with  the  work- 
men, purchasing  materials,  and  superintending  the  work, 
fell  upon  me;  and  I  went  thro'  it  the  more  cheerfully,  as 
it  did  not  then  interfere  with  my  private  business,  having 
the  year  before  taken  a  very  able,  industrious,  and  honest 
partner,  Mr.  David  Hall,  with  whose  character  I  was  well 
acquainted,  as  he  had  work'd  for  me  four  years.  He  took 
off  my  hands  all  care  of  the  printing-office,  paying  me  punc- 
tually my  share  of  the  profits.  This  partnership  continued 
eighteen  years,  successfully  for  us  both. 

The  trustees  of  the  academy,  after  a  while,  were  incor- 
porated by  a  charter  from  the  governor;  their  funds  were 
increas'd  by  contributions  in  Britain  and  grants  of  land  from 
the  proprietaries,  to  which  the  Assembly  has  since  made 
considerable  addition;  and  thus  was  established  the  present 
University  of  Philadelphia.  I  have  been  continued  one  of 
its  trustees  from  the  beginning,  now  near  forty  years,  and 
have  had  the  very  great  pleasure  of  seeing  a  number  of  the 
youth  who  have  received  their  education  in  it,  distinguish'd 
by  their  improv'd  abilities,  serviceable  in  public  stations,  and 
ornaments  to  their  country. 

When  I  disengaged  myself,  as  above  mentioned,  from 
private  business,  I  flatter'd  myself  that,  by  the  sufficient  tho' 
moderate  fortune  I  had  acquir'd,  I  had  secured  leisure  dur- 
ing the  rest  of  my  life  for  philosophical  studies  and  amuse- 
ments. I  purchased  all  Dr.  Spence's  apparatus,  who  had 
come  from  England  to  lecture  here,  and  I  proceeded  in  my 
electrical  experiments  with  great  alacrity;  but  the  publick, 
now  considering  me  as  a  man  of  leisure,  laid  hold  of  me 
for  their  purposes,  every  part  of  our  civil  government,  and 
almost  at  the  same  time,  imposing  some  duty  upon  me.  The 
governor  put  me  into  the  commission  of  the  peace;  the  cor- 
poration of  the  city  chose  m.e  of  the  common  council,  and 
soon  after  an  alderman;  and  the  citizens  at  large  chose  me 
a  burgess  to  represent  them  in  Assembly.  This  latter  sta- 
tion was  the  more  agreeable  to  me,  as  I  was  at  length 
tired  with  sitting  there  to  hear  debates,  in  which,  as  clerk, 


120  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

I  could  take  no  part,  and  which  were  often  so  unentertain- 
ing  that  I  was  hiduc'd  to  amuse  myself  with  making  magic 
squares  or  circles,  or  any  thing  to  avoid  weariness;  and  I 
conceiv'd  my  becoming  a  member  would  enlarge  my  power 
of  doing  good.  I  would  not,  however,  insinuate  that  my 
am.bition  was  not  flatter'd  by  all  these  promotions;  it  cer- 
tainly was;  for,  considering  my  low  beginning,  they  were 
great  things  to  me;  and  they  were  still  more  pleasing,  as 
being  so  many  spontaneous  testimonies  of  the  public  good 
opinion,  and  by  me  entirely  unsolicited. 

The  office  of  justice  of  the  peace  I  try'd  a  little,  by  attend- 
ing a  few  courts,  and  sitting  on  the  bench  to  hear  causes; 
but  finding  that  more  knowledge  of  the  common  law  than  I 
possess'd  was  necessary  to  act  in  that  station  with  credit,  I 
gradually  withdrew  from  it,  excusing  myself  by  my  being 
oblig'd  to  attend  the  higher  duties  of  a  legislator  in  the 
Assembly.  My  election  to  this  trust  was  repeated  every  year 
for  ten  years,  without  my  ever  asking  any  elector  for  his 
vote,  or  signifying,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  any  desire 
of  being  chosen.  On  taking  my  seat  in  the  House,  my  son 
was  appointed  their  clerk. 

The  year  following,  a  treaty  being  to  be  held  with  the 
Indians  at  Carlisle,  the  governor  sent  a  message  to  the 
House,  proposing  that  they  should  nominate  some  of  their 
members,  to  be  join'd  with  some  members  of  council,  as 
cornxmissioners  for  that  purpose.^  The  House  named  the 
Speaker  (Mr.  Norris)  and  myself;  and,  being  commission'd, 
we  went  to  Carlisle,  and  met  the  Indians  accordingly. 

As  those  people  are  extreamly  apt  to  get  drunk,  and, 
when  so,  are  very  quarrelsome  and  disorderly,  we  strictly 
forbad  the  selling  any  liquor  to  them;  and  when  they  com- 
plain'd  of  this  restriction,  we  told  them  that  if  they  would 
continue  sober  during  the  treaty,  we  would  give  them  plenty 
of  rum  when  business  was  over.  They  promis'd  this,  and 
they  kept  their  promise,  because  they  could  get  no  liquor, 
and  the  treaty  was  conducted  very  orderly,  and  concluded 
to  mutual  satisfaction.  They  then  claim'd  and  receiv'd  the 
rum;  this  was  in  the  afternoon;  they  were  near  one  hun- 
dred men,  women,  and  children,  and  were  lodg'd  in  tem- 
^  See  the  votes  to  have  this  more  correctly.— [Mor^r.  note.} 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  121 

porary  cabins,  huilt  in  the  form  of  a  square,  just  without 
the  town.  In  the  evening,  hearing  a  great  noise  among 
them,  the  commissioners  walk'd  out  to  see  what  was  the 
matter.  We  found  they  had  m-ade  a  great  bonfire  in  the 
middle  of  the  square ;  they  were  all  drunk,  men  and  women, 
quarreling  and  fighting.  Their  dark-colour'd  bodies,  half 
naked,  seen  only  by  the  gloomy  light  of  the  bonfire,  running 
after  and  beating  one  another  with  firebraads,  accompanied 
by  their  horrid  yeiUngs,  form'd  a  scene  the  most  resembling 
our  ideas  of  hell  that  could  well  be  imagin'd;  there  was  no 
appeasing  the  tumult,  and  we  retired  to  our  lodging.  At 
midnight  a  number  of  them  came  thundering  at  our  door, 
demanding  more  rum,  of  which  we  took  no  notice. 

The  next  day,  sensible  they  had  misbehav'd  in  giving  us 
that  disturbance,  they  sent  three  of  their  old  counselors  to 
make  their  apology.  The  orator  acknowledg'd  the  fault,  but 
laid  it  upon  the  rum;  and  then  endeavored  to  excuse  th^ 
rum  by  saying,  ''  The  Great  Spirit,  who  made  all  things, 
made  every  thing  for  sor/te  use,  and  whatever  use  he 
designed  any  thing  for,  that  use  it  should  always  he  put  to. 
Now,  when  he  made  rum,  he  said  'Let  this  he  for  the  In- 
dians to  get  drunk  with,'  and  it  mMst  he  so.'*  And,  indeed, 
if  it  be  the  design  of  Providence  to  extirpate  these  savages 
in  order  to  make  room  for  cultivators  of  the  earth,  it  seems 
not  improbable  that  rum  may  be  the  appointed  means.  It 
has  already  annihilated  all  the  trihes  who  formerly  inhabited 
the  sea-coast. 

In  175 1,  Dr.  Thomas  Bond,  a  particular  friend  of  mine, 
conceived  the  idea  of  establishing  a  hospital  in  Philadelphia 
(a  very  beneficent  design,  which  has  been  ascrib'd  to  me,  but 
was  originally  his),  for  the  reception  and  cure  of  poor  sick 
persons,  whether  inhabitants  of  the  province  or  strangers. 
He  was  zealous  and  active  in  endeavouring  to  procure  sub- 
scriptions for  it,  but  the  proposal  being  a  novelty  in  America, 
and  at  first  not  well  understood,  he  met  with  but  small 
success. 

At  length  he  came  to  me  with  the  compliment  that  he 
found  there  was  no  such  thing  as  carrying  a  public-spirited 
project  through  without  my  being  concern'd  in  it.  "For," 
says  he,  "I  am  often  ask'd  by  those  to  whom  I   propose 


122  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

subscribing,  Have  you  consulted  Franklin  upon  this  busi- 
ness? And  what  does  he  think  of  it?  And  when  I  tell 
them  that  I  have  not  (supposing  it  rather  out  of  your  line), 
they  do  not  subscribe,  but  say  they  will  consider  of  it."  I 
enquired  into  the  na/ure  and  probable  utility  of  his  schemej 
and  receiving  from  him  a  very  satisfactory  explanation,  I 
not  only  subscrib'd  to  it  myself,  but  engag'd  heartily  in  the 
design  of  procuring  subscriptions  from  others.  Previously, 
however,  to  the  solicitation,  I  endeavoured  to  prepare  the 
minds  of  the  people  by  writing  on  the  subject  in  the  news- 
papers, which  was  my  usual  custom  in  such  cases,  but  yvhich 
he  had  omitted. 

The  subscriptions  afterwards  were  more  free  and  gen- 
erous; but,  beginning  to  flag,  I  saw  they  would  be  insuffi- 
cient without  some  assistance  from  the  Assembly,  and  there- 
fore propos'd  to  petition  for  it,  which  v/as  done.  The  coun- 
try members  did  not  at  first  relish  the  project;  they  objected 
that  it  could  only  be  serviceable  to  the  city,  and  therefore 
the  citizens  alone  should  be  at  the  expense  of  it;  and  they 
doubted  whether  the  citizens  themselves  generally  approv'd 
of  it.  My  allegation  on  the  contrary,  that  it  met  with  such 
approbation  as  to  leave  no  doubt  of  our  being  able  to  raise 
two  thousand  pounds  by  voluntary  donations,  they  consid- 
ered as  a  most  extravagant  supposition,  and  utterly  im- 
possible. 

On  this  I  f orm'd  my  plan ;  and  asking  leave  to  bring  in  a 
bill  for  incorporating  the  contributors  according  to  the 
prayer  of  their  petition,  and  granting  them  a  blank  sum  of 
money,  which  leave  was  obtained  chiefly  on  the  considera- 
tion that  the  House  could  throw  the  bill  out  if  they  did  not 
like  it,  I  drew  it  so  as  to  make  the  important  clause  a  con- 
ditional one,  viz.,  "  And  be  it  enacted,  by  the  authority 
aforesaid,  that  when  the  said  contributors  shall  have  met 
and  chosen  their  managers  and  treasurer,  and  shall  have 

raised  by  their  contributions  a  capital  stock  of value 

(the  yearly  interest  of  which  is  to  be  applied  to  the  accom- 
modating of  the  sick  poor  in  the  said  hospital,  free  of  charge 
for  diet,  attendance,  advice,  and  medicines),  and  shall  make 
the  same  appear  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  speaker  of  the 
Assembly  for  the  tirae  being,  that  then  it  shall  and  may  be 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  123 

lawful  for  tHe  said  speaker,  and  he  is  hereby  required,  to 
sign  an  order  on  the  provincial  treasurer  for  the  payment 
of  two  thousand  pounds,  in  two  yearly  payments,  to  the 
treasurer  of  the  said  hospital,  to  be  applied  to  the  founding, 
building,  and  finishing  of  the  same." 

This  condition  carried  the  bill  through;  for  the  members, 
who  had  oppos'd  the  grant,  and  now  conceiv'd  they  might 
have  the  credit  of  being  charitable  without  the  expence, 
agreed  to  its  passage;  and  then,  in  soliciting  subscriptions 
among  the  people,  we  urg'd  the  conditional  premise  of  the 
law  as  an  additional  motive  to  give,  since  every  man's  dona- 
tion would  be  doubled;  thus  the  clause  work'd  both  ways. 
The  subscriptions  accordingly  soon  exceeded  the  requisite 
sum,  and  we  claim'd  and  receiv'd  the  public  gift,  which 
enabled  us  to  carry  the  design  into  execution.  A  convenient 
and  handsome  building  was  soon  erected ;  the  institution  has 
by  constant  experience  been  found  useful,  and  flourishes  to 
this  day;  and  I  do  not  remember  any  of  my  political 
manoeuvres,  the  success  of  which  gave  me  at  the  time  more 
pleasure,  or  wherein,  after  thinking  of  it,  I  more  easily 
excus'd  myself  for  having  made  some  use  of  cunning. 

It  was  about  this  time  that  another  projector,  the  Rev. 
Gilbert  Tennent,  came  to  me  with  a  request  that  I  would 
assist  him  in  procuring  a  subscription  for  erecting  a  new 
meeting-house.  It  was  to  be  for  the  use  of  a  congregation  he 
had  gathered  among  the  Presbyterians,  who  were  originally 
disciples  of  Mr.  Whitefield.  Unwilling  to  m.ake  myself  dis- 
agreeable to  my  fellow-citizens  by  too  frequently  soliciting 
their  contributions,  I  absolutely  refus'd.  He  then  desired 
I  would  furnish  him  with  a  list  of  the  namxes  of  persons  I 
knew  by  experience  to  be  generous  and  public-spirited.  I 
thought  it  would  be  unbecoming  in  m.e,  after  their  kind 
compliance  with  my  solicitations,  to  mark  them  out  to  be 
worried  by  other  beggars,  and  therefore  refus'd  also  to  give 
such  a  list.  He  then  desir'd  I  would  at  least  give  him  my 
advice.  "  That  I  will  readily  do,"  said  I ;  "  and,  in  the  first 
place,  I  advise  you  to  apply  to  all  those  whom  you  know 
will  give  something;  next,  to  those  whom  you  are  uncertain 
whether  they  will  give  any  thing  or  not,  and  show  them  the 
list  of  those  who  have  given;  and,  lastly,  do  not  neglect 


124  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

those  who  you  are  sure  will  give  nothing-,  for  in  some  of 
them  you  may  be  mistal^en."  He  laugh'd  and  thank'd  me, 
and  said  he  would  take  m.y  advice.  He  did  so,  for  he  ask'd 
of  everybody,  and  he  obtained  a  much  larger  sum  than  he 
expected,  with  which  he  erected  the  capacious  and  very; 
elegant  meeting-house  that  stands  in  Arch-street. 

Our  city,  tho'  laid  out  with  a  beautiful  regularity,  the 
streets  large,  strait,  and  crossing  each  other  at  right  angles, 
had  the  disgrace  of  suffering  those  streets  to  remain  long 
unpav'd,  and  in  wet  weather  the  wheels  of  heavy  carriages 
plough'd  them  into  a  quagmire,  so  that  it  was  difficult  to 
cross  them;  and  in  dry  weather  the  dust  was  offensive.  I 
had  liv'd  near  what  was  call'd  the  Jersey  Market,  and  saw 
with  pain  the  inhabitants  wading  in  mud  while  purchasing 
their  provisions.  A  strip  of  ground  down  the  middle  of 
that  market  was  at  length  pav'd  with  brick,  so  that,  being 
once  in  the  market,  they  had  firm  footing,  but  were  often 
over  shoes  in  dirt  to  get  there.  By  talking  and  writing  on 
the  subject,  I  was  at  length  instrumental  in  getting  the 
street  pav'd  v^ith  stone  between  the  market  and  the  brick'd 
foot-pavem.ent,  that  was  on  each  side  next  the  houses.  This, 
for  some  time,  gave  an  easy  access  to  the  market  dry-shod; 
but,  the  rest  of  the  street  not  being  pav'd,  whenever  a 
carriage  came  out  of  the  mud  upon  this  pavement,  it  shook 
off  and  left  its  dirt  upon  it,  and  it  was  soon  cover'd  with 
mire,  which  was  not  remov'd,  the  city  as  yet  having  no 
scavengers. 

After  some  inquiry  I  found  a  poor  industrious  man,  who 
was  willing  to  undertake  keeping  the  pavement  clean,  by 
sweeping  it  twice  a  week,  carrying  off  the  dirt  from  before 
all  the  neighbours'  doors,  for  the  sum  of  sixpence  per  month, 
to  be  paid  by  each  house.  I  then  wrote  and  printed  a  paper 
setting  forth  the  advantages  to  the  neighbourhood  that  might 
be  obtain'd  by  this  small  expense;  the  greater  ease  in  keep- 
ing our  houses  clean,  so  much  dirt  not  being  brought  in  by 
people's  feet;  the  benefit  to  the  shops  by  more  custom,  etc., 
etc.,  as  buyers  could  more  easily  get  at  them;  and  by  not 
having,  in  windy  weather,  the  dust  blown  in  upon  their 
goods,  etc.,  etc.  I  sent  one  of  these  papers  to  each  house, 
and  in  a  day  or  two  went  round  to  see  who  would  subscribe 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  125 

an  agreement  to  pay  these  sixpences;  it  was  unanimously 
sign'd,  and  for  a  time  well  executed.  All  the  inhabitants 
of  the  city  were  delighted  with  the  cleanliness  of  the  pave- 
ment that  surrounded  the  market,  it  being  a  convenience  to 
all  and  this  rais'd  a  general  desire  to  have  all  the  streets 
paved,  and  made  the  people  more  willing  to  submit  to  a  tax 
for  that  purpose. 

After  some  time  I  drew  a  bill  for  paving  the  city,  and 
brought  it  into  the  Assembly.  It  was  just  before  I  went 
to  England,  in  1757-,  and  did  not  pass  till  I  was  gone,^  and 
then  with  an  alteration  in  the  mode  of  assessment,  which 
I  thought  not  for  the  better,  but  with  an  additional  provision 
for  lighting  as  well  as  paving  the  streets,  which  was  a 
great  improvement.  It  was  by  a  private  person,  the  late 
Mr.  John  Clifton,  his  giving  a  sample  of  the  utility  of  lamps, 
by  placing  one  at  his  door,  that  the  people  were  first  im- 
press'd  with  the  idea  of  enlighting  all  the  city.  The  honotir 
of  this  public  benefit  has  also  been  ascrib'd  to  me,  but  it 
belongs  truly  to  that  gentleman.  I  did  but  follow  his 
example,  and  have  only  some  merit  to  claim  respecting 
the  form  of  our  lamps^  as  differing  from  the  globe  lamps 
we  were  at  first  supply'd  with  from  London.  Those  we 
found  inconvenient  in  these  respects:  they  admitted  no 
air  below;  the  smoke,  therefore,  did  not  readily  go  out 
above,  but  circulated  in  the  globe,  lodg'd  on  its  inside,  and 
soon  obstructed  the  light  they  were  intended  to  afford;  giv- 
ing, besides,  the  daily  trouble  of  wiping  them  clean;  and  an 
accidental  stroke  on  one  of  them  would  demolish  it,  and 
render  it  totally  useless.  I  therefore  suggested  the  com- 
posing them  of  four  flat  panes,  with  a  long  funnel  above 
to  draw  up  the  smoke^  and  crevices  admitting  air  below,  to 
facilitate  the  ascent  of  the  smoke;  by  this  means  they  were 
kept  clean,  and  did  not  grow  dark  in  a  few  hours,  as  the 
London  lamps  do,  but  continu'd  bright  till  morning,  and 
an  accidental  stroke  would  generally  break  but  a  single 
pane,  easily  repair'd. 

I  have  sometimes  wonder'd  that  the  Londoners  did  not, 
from  the  effect  holes  in  the  bottom  of  the  globe  lamps  us'd 
at  Vauxhall  have  in  keeping  them  clean,  learn  to  have  such 

^  See  votes. 


126  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

holes  in  their  street  lamps.  But,  these  holes  being  made 
for  another  purpose,  viz.,  to  communicate  flame  more  sud- 
denly to  the  wick  by  a  little  flax  hanging  down  thro'  them, 
the  other  use,  of  letting  in  air,  seems  not  to  have  been 
thought  of;  and  therefore,  after  the  lamps  have  been  lit 
a  few  hours,  the  streets  of  London  are  very  poorly 
illuminated. 

The  mention  of  these  improvements  puts  me  in  mnnd  of 
one  I  propos'd,  when  in  London,  to  Dr.  Fothergill,  who 
was  among  the  best  men  I  have  known,  and  a  great  pro- 
moter of  useful  projects.  I  had  observ'd  that  the  streets, 
when  dry,  were  never  swept,  and  the  light  dust  carried 
away;  but  it  was  suffer'd  to  accumulate  till  wet  weather 
reduc'd  it  to  mud,  and  then,  after  lying  some  days  so  deep 
on  the  pavement  that  there  was  no  crossing  but  in  paths 
kept  clean  by  poor  people  with  brooms,  it  was  with  great 
labour  rak'd  together  and  thrown  up  into  carts  open  above, 
the  sides  of  which  suffer'd  some  of  the  slush  at  every  jolt 
on  the  pavement  to  shake  out  and  fall,  sometim-cs  to  the  an- 
noyance of  foot-passengers.  The  reason  given  for  not 
sweeping  the  dusty  streets  was,  that  the  dust  would  fly  into 
the  windows  of  shops  and  houses. 

An  accidental  occurrence  had  instructed  me  how  much 
sweeping  might  be  done  in  a  little  time.  I  found  at  my 
door  in  Craven-street,  one  morning,  a  poor  woman  sweeping 
my  pavement  with  a  birch  broom;  she  appeared  very  pale 
and  feeble,  as  just  come  out  of  a  fit  of  sickness.  I  ask'd 
who  employ'd  her  to  sweep  there ;  she  said,  "  Nobody,  but 
I  am  very  poor  and  in  distress,  and  I  sweeps  before  gen- 
tlefolkses  doors,  and  hopes  they  will  give  me  something." 
I  bid  her  sweep  the  whole  street  clean,  and  I  would  give 
her  a  shilling ;  this  was  at  nine  o'clock ;  at  12  she  came  for 
the  shilling.  From  the  slowness  I  saw  at  first  in  her  work- 
ing, I  could  scarce  believe  that  the  work  was  done  so  soon, 
and  sent  m^y  servant  to  examine  it,  who  reported  that  the 
whole  street  was  swept  perfectly  clean,  and  all  the  dust 
plac'd  in  the  gutter,  which  was  in  the  middle;  and  the 
next  rain  wash'd  it  quite  away,  so  that  the  pavement  and 
even  the  kennel  v/ere  perfectly  clean. 

I  then  judg'd  that,   if  that   feeble  woman  could  sweep 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  127 

such  a  street  in  three  hours,  a  strong,  active  man  might 
have  done  it  in  half  the  time.  And  here  let  me  remark  the 
convenience  of  having  but  one  gutter  in  such  a  narrow 
street,  running  down  its  middle,  instead  of  two,  one  on  each 
side,  near  the  footway;  for  where  all  the  rain  that  falls 
on  a  street  runs  from  the  sides  and  meets  in  the  middle,  it 
forms  there  a  current  strong  enough  to  wash  away  all  the 
mud  it  meets  with;  but  when  divided  into  two  channels,  it 
is  often  too  weak  to  cleanse  either,  and  only  makes  the 
mud  it  finds  mxore  fluid,  so  that  the  wheels  of  carriages 
and  feet  of  horses  throw  and  dash  it  upon  the  foot-pave- 
ment, which  is  thereby  rendered  foul  and  slippery,  and  some- 
times splash  it  upon  those  who  are  walking.  My  proposal, 
communicated  to  the  good  doctor,  was  as  follows : 

"  For  the  more  effectual  cleaning  and  keeping  clean  the 
streets  of  London  and  Westminster,  it  is  proposed  that  the 
several  watchmen  be  contracted  with  to  have  the  dust  swept 
up  in  dry  seasons,  and  the  mud  rak'd  up  at  other  times,  each 
in  the  several  streets  and  lanes  of  his  round ;  that  they  be 
furnish'd  with  brooms  and  other  proper  instruments  for 
these  purposes,  to  be  kept  at  their  respective  stands,  ready 
to  furnish  the  poor  people  they  may  employ  in  the  service. 

"  That  in  the  dry  summ.er  months  the  dust  be  all  swept 
up  into  heaps  at  proper  distances,  before  the  shops  and 
Vv^indows  of  houses  are  usually  opened,  when  the  scavengers, 
with  close-covered  carts,  shall  also  carry  it  all  away. 

"  That  the  mud,  when  rak'd  up,  be  not  left  in  heaps  to 
be  spread  abroad  again  by  the  wheels  of  carriages  and 
trampling  of  horses,  but  that  the  scavengers  be  provided 
with  bodies  of  carts,  not  plac'd  high  upon  wheels,  but  low 
upon  sliders,  with  lattice  bottoms,  which,  being  cover'd  witH 
straw,  will  retain  the  mud  thrown  into  them,  and  permit  the 
water  to  drain  from  it,  v/hereby  it  will  become  much  lighter, 
water  making  the  greatest  part  of  its  weight;  these  bodies 
of  carts  to  be  plac'd  at  convenient  distances,  and  the  mud 
brought  to  them  in  wheel-barrows;  they  remaining  v/here 
plac'd  till  the  mud  is  drain'd,  and  then  horses  brought  to 
draw  them  away." 

I  have  since  had  doubts  of  the  practicability  of  the  latter 
part  of  this  proposal,  on  account  of  the  narrowness  of  some 


128  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

streets,  and  the  difficulty  of  placing  the  draining-sleds  so  as 
not  to  encumber  too  much  the  passage;  but  I  am  still  of 
opinion  that  the  former,  requiring  the  dust  to  be  swept  up 
and  carry'd  away  before  the  shops  are  open,  is  very  prac- 
ticable in  the  summer,  when  the  days  are  long;  for,  in 
walking  thro'  the  Strand  and  Fleet-street  one  morning  at 
seven  o'clock,  I  observ'd  there  was  not  one  shop  open,  tho' 
it  had  been  daylight  and  the  sun  up  above  three  hours;  the 
inhabitants  of  London  chusing  voluntarily  to  live  much  by 
candle-light,  and  sleep  by  sunshine,  and  yet  often  complain, 
a  little  absurdly,  of  the  duty  on  candles  and  the  high  price 
of  tallow. 

Some  may  think  these  trifling  matters  not  worth  minding 
or  relating;  but  when  they  consider  that  tho'  dust  blown 
into  the  eyes  of  a  single  person,  or  into  a  single  shop  on  a 
windy  day,  is  but  of  small  importance,  yet  the  great  number 
of  the  instances  in  a  populous  city,  and  its  frequent  repeti- 
tions give  it  weight-  and  consequence,  perhaps  they  will  not 
censure  very  severely  those  who  bestow  some  attention  to 
affairs  of  this  seemingly  low  nature.  Human  felicity  is 
produc'd  not  so  much  by  great  pieces  of  good  fortune  that 
seldom  happen,  as  by  little  advantages  that  occur  every 
day.  Thus,  if  you  teach  a  poor  young  man  to  shave  himself, 
and  keep  his  razor  in  order,  you  may  contribute  more  to 
the  happiness  of  his  life  than  in  giving  him  a  thousand 
guineas.  The  money  may  be  soon  spent,  the  regret  only 
remaining  of  having  foolishly  consumed  it ;  but  in  the  other 
case,  he  escapes  the  frequent  vexation  of  waiting  for  barbers, 
and  of  their  sometimes  dirty  fingers,  offensive  breaths,  and 
dull  razors;  he  shaves  when  most  convenient  to  him,  and 
enjoys  daily  the  pleasure  of  its  being  done  with  a  good 
instrument.  With  these  sentiments  I  have  hazarded  the 
few  preceding  pages,  hoping  they  may  afford  hints  w^hich 
some  time  or  other  may  be  useful  to  a  city  I  love,  having 
lived  many  years  in  it  very  happily,  and  perhaps  to  some 
of  our  towns  in  America. 

Having  been  for  some  time  employed  by  the  postmaster- 
general  of  America  as  his  comptroller  in  regulating  several 
offices,  and  bringing  the  officers  to  account,  I  was,  upon  his 
death  in  1753,  appointed,  jointly  with  Mr.  William  Hunter, 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  129 

to  succeed  him_,  by  a  commission  from  the  postmaster- 
general  in  England.  The  American  office  never  had  hitherto 
paid  any  thing  to  that  of  Britain.  We  were  to  have  six 
hundred  pounds  a  year  between  us,  if  we  could  make  that 
sum  out  of  the  profits  of  the  office.  To  do  this,  a  variety 
of  improvements  were  necessary;  some  of  these  were 
inevitably  at  first  expensive,  so  that  in  the  first  four  years 
the  office  became  above  nine  hundred  pounds  in  debt  to  us. 
But  it  soon  after  began  to  repay  us;  and  before  I  was  dis- 
plac'd  by  a  freak  of  the  ministers,  of  which  I  shall  speak 
hereafter,  we  had  brought  it  to  yield  three  times  as  much 
clear  revenue  to  the  crown  as  the  postoffice  of  Ireland. 
Since  that  imprudent  transaction,  they  have  receiv'd  from 
it — not  one  farthing ! 

The  business  of  the  postoffice  occasion'd  my  taking  a 
journey  this  year  to  New  England,  where  the  College  of 
Cambridge,  of  their  own  motion,  presented  me  with  the 
degree  of  Master  of  Arts.  Yale  College,  in  Connecticut, 
had  before  made  me  a  similar  compliment.  Thus,  without 
studying  in  any  college,  I  came  to  partake  of  their  honours. 
They  were  conferr'd  in  consideration  of  my  improvements 
and  discoveries  in  the  electric  branch  of  natural  philosophy. 

In  1754,  war  with  France  being  again  apprehended,  a 
congress  of  com.missioners  from  the  different  colonies  was, 
by  an  order  of  the  Lords  of  Trade,  to  be  assembled  at  Albany, 
there  to  confer  with  the  chiefs  of  the  Six  Nations  concern- 
ing the  m.eans  of  defending  both  their  country  and  ours. 
Governor  Hamilton,  having  receiv'd  this  order,  acquainted 
the  House  with  it,  requesting  they  would  furnish  proper 
presents  for  the  Indians,  to  be  given  on  this  occasion;  and 
naming  the  speaker  (Mr.  Norris)  and  myself  to  join  Mr. 
Thomas  Penn  and  Mr.  Secretary  Peters  as  commissioners 
to  act  for  Pennsylvania.  The  House  approv'd  the  nomina- 
tion, and  provided  the  goods  for  the  present,  and  tho'  they 
did  not  m.uch  like  treating  out  of  the  provinces;  and  we 
met  the  other  commissioners  at  Albany  about  the  middle  of 
June. 

In  our  way  thither,  I  projected  and  drew  a  plan  for  the 
union  of  all  the  colonies  under  one  government,  so  far  as 
might  be  necessary  for  defense,  and  other  important  general 

5  HC— Vol.  1 


130  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

purposes.  As  we  pass'd  thro'  New  York,  I  had  there  sfiown 
my  project  to  Mr.  James  Alexander  and  Mr.  Kennedy,  two 
gentlem.en  of  great  knowledge  in  public  affairs,  and,  being 
fortified  by  their  approbation,  I  ventur'd  to  lay  it  before 
the  Congress.  It  then  appeared  that  several  of  the  com- 
missioners had  form'd  plans  of  the  same  kind.  A  previous 
question  was  first  taken,  whether  a  union  should  be  estab- 
lished, which  pass'd  in  the  afifirmxative  unanimously.  A  com- 
mittee was  then  appointed,  one  member  from  each  colony, 
to  consider  the  several  plans  and  report.  Mine  happen'd  to 
be  preferr'd,  and,  v/ith  a  few  amendments,  was  accordingly 
reported. 

By  this  plan  the  general  government  was  to  be  administered 
by  a  president-general,  appointed  and  supported  by  the  crown, 
and  a  grand  council  was  to  be  chosen  by  the  representa- 
tives of  the  people  of  the  several  colonies,  met  in  their 
respective  assemblies.  The  debates  upon  it  in  Congress 
went  on  daily,  hand  in  hand  with  the  Indian  business. 
Many  objections  and  difficulties  were  started,  but  at  length 
they  were  all  overcome,  and  the  plan  was  unanimously  agreed 
to,  and  copies  ordered  to  be  transmitted  to  the  Board  of 
Trade  and  to  the  assemblies  of  the  several  provinces.  Its 
fate  was  singular:  the  assemblies  did  not  adopt  it,  as  they 
all  thought  there  was  too  much  prerogative  in  it,  and  in 
England  it  was  judg'd  to  have  too  much  of  the  democratic. 

The  Board  of  Trade  therefore  did  not  approve  of  it,  nor 
recommend  it  for  the  approbation  of  his  majesty;  but 
another  scheme  was  form'd,  supposed  to  answer  the  same 
purpose  better,  whereby  the  governors  of  the  provinces, 
with  some  mem.bers  of  their  respective  councils,  were  to 
meet  and  order  the  raising  of  troops,  building  of  forts,  etc., 
and  to  draw  on  the  treasury  of  Great  Britain  for  the  expense, 
which  was  afterwards  to  be  refunded  by  an  act  of  Parlia- 
ment laying  a  tax  on  America.  My  plan,  with  my  reasons 
in  support  of  it,  is  to  be  found  among  my  political  papers 
that  are  printed. 

Being  the  winter  following  in  Boston,  I  had  m.uch  con- 
versation with  Governor  Shirley  upon  both  the  plans.  Part 
of  what  passed  between  us  on  the  occasion  may  also  be  seen 
among  those  papers.     The  different  and  contrary  reasons 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  131 

o£  dislike  to  my  plan  makes  me  suspect  that  it  was  really 
the  true  medium;  and  I  am  still  of  opinion  it  would  have 
been  happy  for  both  sides  the  water  if  it  had  been  adopted. 
The  colonies,  so  united,  would  have  been  sufficiently  strong 
to  have  defended  themselves;  there  would  then  have  been 
no  need  of  troops  from  England;  of  course,  the  subsequent 
pretence  for  taxing  America,  and  the  bloody  contest  it  occa- 
sioned, would  have  been  avoided.  But  such  mistakes  are 
not  new;  history  is  full  of  the  errors  of  states  and  princes. 

"  Look  round  the  habitable  world,  how  few 
Know  their  own  good,  or,  knowing  it,  pursue  !  " 

Those  who  govern,  having  much  business  on  their  hands, 
do  not  generally  like  to  take  the  trouble  of  considering  and 
carrying  into  execution  new  projects.  The  best  public 
measures  are  therefore  seldom  adopted  from  previous  wis- 
dom, hut  forc'd  by  the  occasion. 

The  Governor  of  Pennsylvania,  in  sending  it  down  to  the 
Assembly,  express'd  his  approbation  of  the  plan,  "  as  appear- 
ing to  him  to  be  drawn  up  with  great  clearness  and  strength 
of  judgment,  and  therefore  recommended  it  as  well  worthy 
of  their  closest  and  most  serious  attention."  The  House, 
however,  by  the  management  of  a  certain  member,  took  it 
up  when  I  happen'd  to  be  absent,  which  I  thought  not  very 
fair,  and  reprobated  it  without  paying  any  attention  to  it  at 
all,  to  my  no  small  mortification. 

In  my  journey  to  Boston  this  year,  I  m^et  at  New  York 
with  our  new  governor,  Mr.  Morris,  just  arriv'd  there  from 
England,  with  whom  I  had  been  before  intimately  acquainted. 
He  brought  a  commission  to  supersede  Mr.  Hamilton,  who, 
tir'd  with  the  disputes  his  proprietary  instructions  subjected 
him  to,  had  resign'd.  Mr.  Morris  ask'd  me  if  I  thought  he 
must  expect  as  uncomfortable  an  administration.  I  said, 
"  No ;  you  may,  on  the  contrary,  have  a  very  comfortable 
one,  if  you  will  only  take  care  not  to  enter  into  any  dispute 
with  the  Assembly/'  "  My  dear  friend,"  says  he,  pleasantly, 
"how  can  you  advise  my  avoiding  disputes?  You  know 
I  love  disputing;  it  is  one  of  my  greatest  pleasures;  how- 
ever, to  show  the  regard  I  have  for  your  counsel,  I  promise 
you  I  will,  if  possible,  avoid  them."  He  had  some  reason 
for  loving  to  dispute,  being  eloquent,  an  acute  sophister,  and, 


132  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

therefore,  generally  successful  in  argumentative  conversa- 
tion. He  had  been  brought  up  to  it  from  a  boy,  his  father, 
as  I  have  heard,  accustoming  his  children  to  dispute  with 
one  another  for  his  diversion,  while  sitting  at  table  after 
dinner;  but  I  think  the  practice  was  not  wise;  for,  in  the 
course  of  my  observation,  these  disputing,  contradicting,  and 
confuting  people  are  generally  unfortunate  in  their  affairs. 
They  get  victory  sometimes,  but  they  never  get  good  will, 
which  would  be  of  more  use  to  them.  We  parted,  he  going 
to  Philadelphia,  and  I  to  Boston. 

In  returning,  I  met  at  New  York  with  the  votes  of  the 
Assembly,  by  which  it  appear'd  that,  notwithstanding  his 
promise  to  me,  he  and  the  House  were  already  in  high  con- 
tention; and  it  was  a  continual  battle  between  them  as  long 
as  he  retain'd  the  government.  I  had  my  share  of  it;  for, 
as  soon  as  I  got  back  to  my  seat  in  the  Assembly,  I  was 
put  on  every  committee  for  answering  his  speeches  and 
messages,  and  by  the  committees  always  desired  to  make 
the  drafts.  Our  answers,  as  well  as  his  messages,  were 
often  tart,  and  sometimes  indecently  abusive;  and,  as  he 
knew  I  wrote  for  the  Assem^bly,  one  might  have  imagined 
that,  when  we  met,  we  could  hardly  avoid  cutting  throats; 
but  he  was  so  good-natur'd  a  man  that  no  personal  difference 
between  him  and  me  was  occasion'd  by  the  contest,  and  we 
often  din'd  together. 

One  afternoon,  in  the  height  of  this  public  quarrel,  we 
met  in  the  street.  "  Franklin,"  says  he,  "  you  must  go  home 
with  me  and  spend  the  evening;  I  am  to  have  some  com- 
pany that  you  will  like ; "  and,  taking  me  by  the  arm,  he 
led  me  to  his  house.  In  gay  conversation  over  our  wine, 
after  supper,  he  told  us,  jokingly,  that  he  much  admir'd  the 
idea  of  Sancho  Panza,  who,  when  it  was  proposed  to  give 
him  a  government,  requested  it  might  be  a  government  of 
blacks,  as  then,  if  he  could  not  agree  with  his  people,  he 
might  sell  them.  One  of  his  friends,  who  sat  next  to  me, 
says,  "  Franklin,  why  do  you  continue  to  side  with  these 
damn'd  Quakers?  Had  not  you  better  sell  them?  The  pro- 
prietor would  give  you  a  good  price."  "  The  governor,"  says 
I,  "  has  not  yet  blacked  them  enough."  He,  indeed,  had 
labored  hard  to  blacken  the  Assembly  in  all  his  messages. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  133 

but  they  wjp'd  off  his  coloring  as  fast  as  he  laid  it  on,  and 
plac'd  it,  in  return,  thick  upon  his  own  face;  so  that,  finding 
he  was  likely  to  be  negroned  himself,  he,  as  well  as  Mr. 
Hamilton,  grew  tir'd  of  the  contest,  and  quitted  the 
government. 

^^  These  public  quarrels  were  all  at  bottom  owing  to  the 
proprietaries,  our  hereditary  governors,  who,  when  any 
expense  was  to  be  incurred  for  the  defense  of  their  province, 
with  incredible  meanness  instructed  their  deputies  to  pass 
no  act  for  levying  the  necessary  taxes,  unless  their  vast 
estates  were  in  the  same  act  expressly  excused;  and  they 
had  even  taken  bonds  of  these  deputies  to  observe  such  in- 
structions. The  Assemblies  for  three  years  held  out  against 
this  injustice,  tho'  constrained  to  bend  at  last.  At  length 
Captain  Denny,  who  was  Governor  Morris's  successor,  ven- 
tured to  disobey  those  instructions;  how  that  was  brought 
about  I  shall  show  hereafter. 

But  I  am  got  forward  too  fast  with  my  story:  there  are 
still  some  transactions  to  be  mention'd  that  happened  during 
the  administration  of  Governor  Morris. 

War  being  in  a  manner  com.menced  with  France,  the 
government  of  Massachusetts  Bay  projected  an  attack  upon 
Crown  Point,  and  sent  Mr.  Quincy  to  Pennsylvania,  and 
Mr.  Pownall,  afterward  Governor  Pownall,  to  New  York, 
to  solicit  assistance.  As  I  was  in  the  Assembly,  knew  its 
temper,  and  was  Mr.  Quincy's  countryman,  he  appli'd  to  me 
for  my  influence  and  assistance.  I  dictated  his  address  to 
them,  which  was  well  receiv'd.  They  voted  an  aid  of  ten 
thousand  pounds,  to  be  laid  out  in  provisions.  But  the 
governor  refusing  his  assent  to  their  bill  (which  included  this 
with  other  sums  granted  for  the  use  of  the  crown),  unless 
a  clause  were  inserted  exempting  the  proprietary  estate 
from  bearing  any  part  of  the  tax  that  would  be  necessary, 
the  Assembly,  tho'  very  desirous  of  making  their  grant  to 
New  England  effectual,  were  at  a  loss  how  to  accomplish  it. 
Mr.  Quincy  labored  hard  with  the  governor  to  obtain  his 
assent,  but  he  was  obstinate. 

I  then  suggested  a  method  of  doing  the  business  without 
the  governor,  by  orders  on  the  trustees  of  the  Loan  Office, 

^  My  acts  in  Morris's  time,  military,   etc.— [Marg.  note.} 


134  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

which,  by  law,  the  Assembly  had  the  right  of  drawing. 
There  was,  indeed,  Httle  or  no  money  at  that  time  in  the 
office,  and  therefore  I  propos'd  that  the  orders  should  be 
payable  in  a  year,  and  to  bear  an  interest  of  five  per  cent. 
With  these  orders  I  suppos'd  the  provisions  might  easily  be 
purchas'd.  The  Assembly,  with  very  little  hesitation,  adopted 
the  proposal.  The  orders  were  immediately  printed,  and  I 
iWas  one  of  the  committee  directed  to  sign  and  dispose  of 
them.  The  fund  for  paying  them  was  the  interest  of  all  the 
paper  currency  then  extant  in  the  province  upon  loan,  to- 
gether with  the  revenue  arising  from  the  excise,  which  being 
known  to  be  more  than  sufficient,  they  obtain'd  instant  credit, 
and  were  not  only  receiv'd  in  payment  for  the  provisions, 
but  many  money 'd  people,  who  had  cash  lying  by  them, 
vested  it  in  those  orders,  which  they  found  advantageous, 
as  they  bore  interest  while  upon  hand,  and  might  on  any 
occasion  be  used  as  money;  so  that  they  were  eagerly  all 
bought  up,  and  in  a  few  weeks  none  of  them  were  to  be  seen. 
Thus  this  important  affair  was  by  my  means  compleated. 
My  Quincy  return'd  thanks  to  the  Assembly  in  a  handsome 
memorial,  went  home  highly  pleas'd  with  the  success  of  his 
em.bassy,  and  ever  after  bore  for  me  the  most  cordial  and 
affectionate  friendship. 

The  British  government,  not  chusing  to  permit  the  union 
of  the  colonies  as  propos'd  at  Albany,  and  to  trust  that 
union  with  their  defense,  lest  they  should  thereby  grow 
too  military,  and  feel  their  own  strength,  suspicions  and 
jealousies  at  this  time  being  entertain'd  of  them,  sent 
over  General  Braddock  with  two  regiments  of  regular 
English  troops  for  that  purpose.  He  landed  at  Alexandria, 
in  Virginia,  and  thence  march'd  to  Frederictown,  in  Mary- 
land, where  he  halted  for  carriages.  Our  Assembly  ap- 
prehending, from  some  information,  that  he  had  con- 
ceived violent  prejudices  against  them,  as  averse  to  the 
service,  wish'd  me  to  wait  upon  him,  not  as  from  them, 
but  as  postmaster-general,  under  the  guise  of  proposing 
to  settle  with  him  the  mode  of  conducting  with  most 
celerity  and  certainty  the  despatches  between  him  and 
the  governors  of  the  several  provinces,  with  whom  he  must 
necessarily   have   continual   correspondence,   and  of   which 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  135 

they  propos'd  to  pay  the  expense.  My  son  accompanied  me 
on  this  journey. 

We  found  the  general  at  Frederictown,  waiting  impa- 
tiently for  the  return  of  those  he  had  sent  thro'  the  back 
parts  of  Maryland  and  Virginia  to  collect  waggons.  I 
stayed  with  him  several  days,  din'd  with  him  daily,  and  had 
full  opportunity  of  removing  all  his  prejudices,  by  the  in- 
formation of  what  the  Assembly  had  before  his  arrival 
actually  done,  and  were  still  willing  to  do,  to  facilitate  his 
operations.  When  I  was  about  to  depart,  the  returns  of 
waggons  to  be  obtained  were  brought  in,  by  which  it  ap- 
pear'd  that  they  amounted  only  to  twenty-five,  and  not  all 
of  those  were  in  serviceable  condition.  The  general  and 
all  the  officers  were  surpris'd,  declar'd  the  expedition  was 
then  at  an  end,  being  impossible,  and  exclaim'd  against  the 
ministers  for  ignorantly  landing  them  in  a  country  destitute 
of  the  means  of  conveying  their  stores,  baggage,  etc.,  not 
less  than  one  hundred  and  fifty  waggons  being  necessary. 

I  happened  to  say  I  thought  it  was  a  pity  they  had  not  been 
landed  rather  in  Pennsylvania,  as  in  that  country  almost 
every  farmer  had  his  waggon.  The  general  eagerly  laid 
hold  of  my  words,  and  said,  "  Then  you,  sir,  who  are  a  man 
of  interest  there,  can  probably  procure  them  for  us;  and  I 
beg  you  will  undertake  it."  I  ask'd  what  terms  were  to  be 
offer'd  the  owners  of  the  waggons ;  and  I  was  desir'd  to  put 
on  paper  the  terms  that  appeared  to  me  necessary.  This  I 
did,  and  they  were  agreed  to,  and  a  commission  and  instruc- 
tions accordingly  prepar'd  immediately.  What  those  terms 
were  will  appear  in  the  advertisement  I  publish'd  as  soon  as 
I  arriv'd  at  Lancaster,  which  being,  from  the  great  and 
sudden  effect  it  produc'd,  a  piece  of  some  curiosity,  I  shall 
insert  it  at  length,  as  follows: 

"  Advertisement. 

"Lancaster,  Afril  26,  lyss* 

"Whereas,   one  hundred   and  fifty  waggons,   with   four 

horses  to  each  waggon,  and  fifteen  hundred  saddle  or  pack 

horses,  are  wanted  for  the  service  of  his  majesty's  forces 

now  about  to  rendezvous  at  Will's  Creek,  and  his  excellency 


136  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

General  Braddock  having  been  pleased  to  empower  me  to 
contract  for  the  hire  of  the  same,  I  hereby  give  notice  that 
I  shall  attend  for  that  purpose  at  Lancaster  from  this  day 
to  next  Wednesday  evening,  and  at  York  from  next  Thurs- 
day morning  till  Friday  evening,  where  I  shall  be  ready  to 
agree  for  waggons  and  teams,  or  single  horses,  on  the  fol- 
lowing terms,  viz.:  i.  That  there  shall  be  paid  for  each 
waggon,  with  four  good  horses  and  a  driver,  fifteen  shillings 
per  diem;  and  for  each  able  horse  with  a  pack-saddle,  or 
other  saddle  and  furniture,  two  shillings  per  diem;  and  for 
each  able  horse  without  a  saddle,  eighteen  pence  per  diem. 
2.  That  the  pay  commence  from  the  time  of  their  joining 
the  forces  at  Will's  Creek,  which  must  be  on  or  before  the 
20th  of  May  ensuing,  and  that  a  reasonable  allowance  be 
paid  over  and  above  for  the  time  necessary  for  their  travel- 
ling to  Will's  Creek  and  home  again  after  their  discharge. 
■3.  Each  waggon  and  team,  and  every  saddle  or  pack  horse, 
is  to  be  valued  by  indifferent  persons  chosen  between  me 
and  the  owner ;  and  in  case  of  the  loss  of  any  waggon,  team, 
or  other  horse  in  the  service,  the  price  according  to  such 
valuation  is  to  be  allowed  and  paid.  4.  Seven  days'  pay  is 
to  be  advanced  and  paid  in  hand  by  me  to  the  owner  of  each 
[waggon  and  team,  or  horse,  at  the  time  of  contracting,  if 
required,  and  the  remainder  to  be  paid  by  General  Brad- 
dock,  or  by  the  paymaster  of  the  army,  at  the  time  of  their 
discharge,  or  from  time  to  time,  as  it  shall  be  demanded. 
'5.  No  drivers  of  waggons,  or  persons  taking  care  of  the 
hired  horses,  are  on  any  account  to  be  called  upon  to  do  the 
'duty  of  soldiers,  or  be  otherwise  employed  than  in  conduct- 
ing or  taking  care  of  their  carriages  or  horses.  6.  All  oats, 
Indian  com,  or  other  forage  that  waggons  or  horses  bring  to 
the  camp,  more  than  is  necessary  for  the  subsistence  of  the 
horses,  is  to  be  taken  for  the  use  of  the  army,  and  a  reason- 
able price  paid  for  the  same. 

"  Note. — My  son,  William  Franklin,  is  empowered  to  enter 
Into  like  contracts  with  any  person  in  Cumberland  county. 

"B.  Franklin." 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  137 


^*To  the  inhabitants  of  the  Counties  of  Lancaster, 
York  and  Cumberland. 

^'Friends  and  Countrymen, 

"  Being  occasionally  at  the  camp  at  Frederic  a  few  days 
since,  I  found  the  general  and  officers  extremely  exasperated 
on  account  of  their  not  being  supplied  with  horses  and  car- 
riages, which  had  been  expected  from  this  province,  as  most 
able  to  furnish  them;  but,  through  the  dissensions  between 
our  governor  and  Assembly^  money  had  not  been  provided, 
nor  any  steps  taken  for  that  purpose. 

*'  It  was  proposed  to  send  an  armed  force  immediately 
into  these  counties,  to  seize  as  many  of  the  best  carriages 
and  horses  as  should  be  wanted,  and  compel  as  many  persons 
into  the  service  as  would  be  necessary  to  drive  and  take  care 
of  them, 

"1  apprehended  that  the  progress  of  British  soldiers 
through  these  counties  on  such  an  occasion,  especially  con- 
sidering the  temper  they  are  in,  and  their  resentment  against 
us,  would  be  attended  with  many  and  great  inconveniences 
to  the  inhabitants,  and  therefore  more  willingly  took  the 
trouble  of  trying  first  what  might  be  done  by  fair  and 
equitable  means.  The  people  of  these  back  counties  have 
lately  complained  to  the  Assembly  that  a  sufficient  currency 
was  wanting;  you  have  an  opportunity  of  receiving  and 
dividing  among  you  a  very  considerable  sum;  for,  if  the 
service  of  this  expedition  should  continue,  as  it  is  more  than 
probable  it  will,  for  one  hundred  and  twenty  days,  the  hire 
of  these  v\^aggons  and  horses  will  amount  to  upward  of 
thirty  thousand  pounds,  which  will  be  paid  you  in  silver 
and  gold  of  the  king's  money. 

"  The  service  will  be  light  and  easy,  for  the  army  will 
scarce  march  above  twelve  miles  per  day,  and  the  waggons 
and  baggage-horses,  as  they  carry  those  things  that  are 
absolutely  necessary  to  the  v/elfare  of  the  army,  must  march 
with  the  army,  and  no  faster;  and  are,  for  the  army's  sake, 
always  placed  where  they  can  be  most  secure,  whether  in  a 
march  or  in  a  camp. 

"If  you  are  really,  as  I  believe  you  are,  good  and  loyal 


138  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

subjects  to  his  majesty,  you  may  now  do  a  most  acceptable 
service,  and  make  it  easy  to  yourselves;  for  three  or  four 
of  such  as  can  not  separately  spare  from  the  business  of 
their  plantations  a  w^aggon  and  four  horses  and  a  driver, 
may  do  it  together,  one  furnishing  the  waggon,  another  one 
or  two  horses,  and  another  the  driver,  and  divide  the  pay 
proportionately  between  you;  but  if  you  do  not  this  service 
to  your  king  and  country  voluntarily,  when  such  good  pay 
and  reasonable  terms  are  offered  to  you,  your  loyalty  will  be 
strongly  suspected.  The  king's  business  must  be  done;  so 
many  brave  troops,  come  so  far  for  your  defense,  must  not 
stand  idle  through  your  backwardness  to  do  what  may  be 
reasonably  expected  from  you ;  waggons  and  horses  must  be 
had;  violent  measures  will  probably  be  used,  and  you  will 
be  left  to  seek  for  a  recompense  where  you  can  find  it,  and 
your  case,  perhaps,  be  little  pitied  or  regarded. 

"  I  have  no  particular  interest  in  this  affair,  as,  except 
the  satisfaction  of  endeavoring  to  do  good,  I  shall  have  only 
my  labour  for  my  pains.  If  this  method  of  obtaining  the 
waggons  and  horses  is  not  likely  to  succeed,  I  am  obliged 
to  send  word  to  the  general  in  fourteen  days;  and  I  suppose 
Sir  John  St.  Clair,  the  hussar,  with  a  body  of  soldiers,  will 
immediately  enter  the  province  for  the  purpose,  which  I 
shall  be  sorry  to  hear,  because  I  am  very  sincerely  and  truly 
your  friend  and  well-wisher,  B.  Franklin." 

I  received  of  the  general  about  eight  hundred  pounds,  to 
be  disbursed  in  advance-money  to  the  waggon  owners,  etc.; 
but  that  sum  being  insufficient,  I  advanc'd  upward  of  two 
hundred  pounds  more,  and  in  two  weeks  the  one  hundred  and 
fifty  waggons,  with  two  hundred  and  fifty-nine  carr^dng 
horses,  were  on  their  march  for  the  camp.  The  advertise- 
ment promised  payment  according  to  the  valuation,  in  case 
any  waggon  or  horse  should  be  lost.  The  owners,  however, 
alleging  they  did  not  know  General  Braddock,  or  what  de- 
pendence might  be  had  on  his  promise,  insisted  on  my  bond 
for  the  performance,  which  I  accordingly  gave  them. 

While  I  was  at  the  camp,  supping  one  evening  with  the 
ofHcers  of  Colonel  Dunbar's  regiment,  he  represented  to  me 
his  concern  for  the  subalterns,  who,  he  said,  were  generally 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  139 

not  in  affluence,  and  could  ill  afford,  in  this  dear  country, 
to  lay  in  the  stores  that  might  be  necessary  in  so  long  a 
march,  thro'  a  wilderness,  where  nothing  was  to  be  pur- 
chas'd.  I  commiserated  their  case,  and  resolved  to  endeavor 
procuring  them  some  relief.  I  said  nothing,  however,  to  him 
of  my  intention,  but  wrote  the  next  morning  to  the  com- 
mittee of  the  Assembly,  who  had  the  disposition  of  some 
public  money,  w^armly  recommending  the  case  of  these  officers 
to  their  consideration,  and  proposing  that  a  present  should 
be  sent  them  of  necessaries  and  refreshments.  My  son,  who 
had  some  experience  of  a  camp  life,  and  of  its  wants,  drew 
up  a  list  for  m.e,  which  I  enclos'd  in  my  letter.  The  com- 
mittee approv'd,  and  used  such  diligence  that,  conducted  by 
my  son,  the  stores  arrived  at  the  camp  as  soon  as  the  wag- 
gons.   They  consisted  of  twenty  parcels,  each  containing 

6  lbs.  loaf  sugar.  i  Gloucester  cheese. 

6  lbs.  good  Muscovado  do.  i    kegg   containing   20   lbs.   good 
I  lb.  good  green  tea.  butter. 

I  lb.  good  bohea  do.  2  doz.  old  Madeira  wine. 

6  lbs.  good  ground  coffee.  2  gallons  Jamaica  spirits. 

6  lbs.  chocolate.  i  bottle  flour  of  mustard. 

1-2  cwt.  best  white  biscuit.  2  well-cur'd  hams. 

1-2  lb.  pepper.  1-2  dozen  dry'd  tongues. 
I    quart   best   white   wine    vine-  6  lbs.  rice, 

gar.  6  lbs.  raisins. 

These  twenty  parcels,  well  pack'd,  were  placed  on  as  many 
horses,  each  parcel,  with  the  horse,  being  intended  as  a 
present  for  one  officer.  They  were  very  thankfully  receiv'd, 
and  the  kindness  acknowdedg'd  by  letters  to  me  from  the 
colonels  of  both  regim.ents,  in  the  most  grateful  terms.  The 
general,  too,  was  highly  satisfied  with  my  conduct  in  pro- 
curing him  the  waggons,  etc.,  and  readily  paid  my  account 
of  disbursements,  thanking  me  repeatedly,  and  requesting  my 
farther  assistance  in  sending  provisions  after  him.  I  under- 
took this  also,  and  was  busily  employ'd  in  it  till  we  heard  of 
his  defeat,  advancing  for  the  service  of  my  own  money, 
upwards  of  one  thousand  pounds  sterling,  of  which  I  sent 
him  an  account.  It  came  to  his  hands,  luckily  for  m^e,  a  few 
days  before  the  battle,  and  he  return'd  me  immediately  an 
order  on  the  paymaster  for  the  round  sum  of  one  thousand 
pounds,  leaving  the  remainder  to  the  next  account.    I  con- 


140  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

sider  this  payment  as  good  luck,  having  never  been  able  to 
obtain  that  remainder,  of  which  more  hereafter. 

This  general  was,  I  think,  a  brave  man,  and  might  prob- 
ably have  made  a  figure  as  a  good  officer  in  some  European 
war.  But  he  had  too  much  self-confidence,  too  high  an 
opinion  of  the  validity  of  regular  troops,  and  too  mean  a 
one  of  both  Americans  and  Indians.  George  Croghan,  our 
Indian  interpreter,  join'd  him  on  his  march  with  one  hundred 
of  those  people,  who  might  have  been  of  great  use  to  his 
army  as  guides,  scouts,  etc.,  if  he  had  treated  them  kindly; 
but  he  slighted  and  neglected  them,  and  they  gradually  left 
him. 

In  conversation  with  him  one  day,  he  v/as  giving  me  some 
account    of    his    intended    progress.      "After    taking    Fort 
Duquesne,"   says  he,   "I   am  to  proceed  to   Niagara;    and, 
having  taken  that,  to   Frontenac,  if  the  season  will  allow 
time ;   and  I  suppose  it  will,  for  Duquesne  can  hardly  detain 
me  above  three  or  four  days;    and  then  I  see  nothing  that 
can  obstruct  my  march  to  Niagara."    Having  before  revolv'd 
in  my  mind  the  long  line  his  army  must  make  in  their  march 
by  a  very  narrow  road,  to  be  cut  for  them  thro'  the  woods 
and  bushes,  and  also  what  I  had  read  of  a  former  defeat  of 
fifteen  hundred  French,  who  invaded  the  Iroquois  country, 
I  had  conceiv'd  some  doubts  and  some  fears  for  the  event 
of  the  campaign.     But  I  ventur'd  only  to  say,  "  To  be  sure, 
sir,   if   you   arrive    well  before   Duquesne,   with   these   fine 
troops,  so  well  provided  with  artillery,  that  place  not  yet 
compleatly  fortified,  and  as  we  hear  with  no  very  strong 
garrison,  can  probably  make  but  a   short  resistance.     The 
only  danger  I  apprehend  of  obstruction  to  your  march  is 
from  ambuscades  of  Indians,  who,  by  constant  practice,  are 
dexterous  in  laying  and  executing  them;    and  the  slender 
line,  near  four  miles  long,  which  your  army  m.ust  m.ake,  m.ay 
expose  it  to  be  attack'd  by  surprise  in  its  flanks,  and  to  be 
cut  like  a  thread  into  several  pieces,  which,  from  their  dis- 
tance, can  not  come  up  in  time  to  support  each  other." 

He  smil'd  at  my  ignorance,  and  reply'd,  "These  savages 
may,  indeed,  be  a  formidable  enemy  to  your  raw  American 
militia,  but  upon  the  king's  regular  and  disciplin'd  troops, 
sir,  it  is  impossible  they  should  make  any  impression."    I 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  141 

was  conscious  of  an  impropriety  in  my  disputing  with  a 
military  man  in  matters  of  his  profession,  and  said  no  more. 
The  enemy,  however,  did  not  take  the  advantage  of  his 
army  which  I  apprehended  its  long  line  of  march  expos'd 
it  to,  but  let  it  advance  without  interruption  till  within  nine 
miles  of  the  place;  and  then,  when  more  in  a  body  (for  it 
had  just  passed  a  river,  where  the  front  had  halted  till 
all  were  come  over),  and  in  a  more  open  part  of  the  woods 
than  any  it  had  pass'd,  attacked  its  advanced  guard  by  a 
heavy  fire  from  behind  trees  and  bushes,  which  was  the  first 
intelligence  the  general  had  of  an  enemy's  being  near  him. 
This  guard  being  disordered,  the  general  hurried  the  troops 
up  to  their  assistance,  which  was  done  in  great  confusion, 
thro'  waggons,  baggage,  and  cattle;  and  presently  the  fire 
came  upon  their  flank :  the  officers,  being  on  horseback,  were 
more  easily  distinguish'd,  pick'd  out  as  marks,  and  fell  very 
fast;  and  the  soldiers  were  crowded  together  in  a  huddle, 
having  or  hearing  no  orders,  and  standing  to  be  shot  at  till 
two-thirds  of  them  were  killed;  and  then,  being  seiz'd  with 
a  panick,  the  whole  fled  with  precipitation. 

The  waggoners  took  each  a  horse  out  of  his  team  and 
scam.per'd;  their  example  was  immediately  followed  by 
others;  so  that  all  the  waggons,  provisions,  artillery,  and 
stores  were  left  to  the  enemy.  The  general,  being  wounded, 
was  brought  oft*  with  difficulty;  his  secretary,  Mr.  Shirley, 
was  killed  by  his  side;  and  out  of  eighty-six  officers,  sixty- 
three  were  killed  or  wounded,  and  seven  hundred  and  four- 
teen men  killed  out  of  eleven  hundred.  These  eleven  hun- 
dred had  been  picked  men  from  the  whole  army;  the  rest 
had  been  left  behind  with  Colonel  Dunbar,  who  was  to  fol- 
low Avith  the  heavier  part  of  the  stores,  provisions,  and 
baggage.  The  flyers,  not  being  pursu'd,  arriv'd  at  Dunbar's 
camp,  and  the  panick  they  brought  with  them  instantly 
seiz'd  him  and  all  his  people;  and,  tho'  he  had  now  above 
one  thousand  men,  and  the  enemy  who  had  beaten  Braddock 
did  not  at  most  exceed  four  hundred  Indians  and  French 
together,  instead  of  proceeding,  and  endeavoring  to  recover 
some  of  the  lost  honour,  he  ordered  all  the  stores,  ammuni- 
tion, etc.,  to  be  destroy'd,  that  he  might  have  more  horses 
to  assist  his  flight  towards  the  settlements,  and  less  lumber 


142  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

to  remove.  He  was  there  met  with  requests  from  the  gov- 
ernors of  Virginia,  Maryland,  and  Pennsylvania,  that  he 
would  post  his  troops  on  the  frontiers,  so  as  to  afford  some 
protection  to  the  inhabitants;  but  he  continu'd  his  hasty 
march  thro'  all  the  country,  not  thinking  himself  safe  till 
he  arriv'd  at  Philadelphia,  where  the  inhabitants  could  pro- 
tect him.  This  whole  transaction  gave  us  Americans  the 
first  suspicion  that  our  exalted  ideas  of  the  prowess  of 
■British  regulars  had  not  been  well  founded. 

In  their  first  march,  too,  from  their  landing  till  they  got 
beyond  the  settlements,  they  had  plundered  and  stripped  the 
inhabitants,  totally  ruining  some  poor  families,  besides  insult- 
ing, abusing,  and  confining  the  people  if  they  remonstrated. 
This  was  enough  to  put  us  out  of  conceit  of  such  defenders, 
if  we  had  really  wanted  any.  How  different  was  the  con- 
duct of  our  French  friends  in  1781,  who,  during  a  march 
thro'  the  most  inhabited  part  of  our  country  from  Rhode 
Island  to  Virginia,  near  seven  hundred  miles,  occasioned  not 
the  smallest  complaint  for  thg  loss  of  a  pig,  a  chicken,  or 
even  an  apple. 

Captain  Orme,  who  was  one  of  the  general's  aids-de-camp, 
and,  being  grievously  wounded,  was  brought  oft*  with  him, 
and  continu'd  with  him  to  his  death,  which  happen'd  in  a 
few  days,  told  me  that  he  was  totally  silent  all  the  first  day, 
and  at  night  only  said,  "  Who  would  have  thought  it? " 
That  he  was  silent  again  the  following  day,  saying  only  at 
last,  "  We  shall  better  know  hozu  to  deal  with  them  another 
time;"  and  dy'd  in  a  few  minutes  after. 

The  secretary's  papers,  with  all  the  general's  orders,  in- 
structions, and  correspondence,  falling  into  the  enemy's 
hands,  they  selected  and  translated  into  French  a  number  of 
the  articles,  which  they  printed,  to  prove  the  hostile  inten- 
tions of  the  British  court  before  the  declaration  of  war. 
Among  these  I  saw  some  letters  of  the  general  to  the 
ministry,  speaking  highly  of  the  great  service  I  had  ren- 
dered the  army,  and  recommending  me  to  their  notice.  David 
Hume,  too,  who  was  some  years  after  secretary  to  Lord 
Hertford,  when  minister  in  France,  and  afterward  to  Gen- 
eral Conway,  when  secretary  of  state,  told  me  he  had  seen 
among   the   papers   in  that   office,   letters   from   Braddock 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  143 

highly  recommending  me.  But,  the  expedition  having  been 
unfortunate,  my  service,  it  seems,  was  not  thought  of  much 
value,  for  those  recommendations  vv^ere  never  of  any  use 
to  me. 

As  to  rewards  from  himself,  I  ask'd  only  one,  which  was, 
that  he  would  give  orders  to  his  officers  not  to  enlist  any 
more  of  our  bought  servants,  and  that  he  would  discharge 
such  as  had  been  already  enlisted.  This  he  readily  granted, 
and  several  were  accordingly  return'd  to  their  masters,  on 
my  application.  Dunbar,  when  the  command  devolv'd  on 
him,  was  not  so  generous.  He  being  at  Philadelphia,  on  his 
retreat,  or  rather  flight,  I  apply'd  to  him  for  the  discharge 
of  the  servants  of  three  poor  farmers  of  Lancaster  county 
that  he  had  enlisted,  reminding  him  of  the  late  general's 
orders  on  that  head.  He  promised  me  that,  if  the  masters 
would  come  to  him  at  Trenton,  where  he  should  be  in  a  few 
days  on  his  march  to  New  York,  he  would  there  deliver 
their  men  to  them.  They  accordingly  vv^ere  at  the  expense 
and  trouble  of  going  to  Trenton,  and  there  he  refus'd  to  per- 
form his  promise,  to  their  great  loss  and  disappointment. 

As  soon  as  the  loss  of  the  waggons  and  horses  was  gen- 
erally known,  all  the  owners  came  upon  me  for  the  valuation 
which  I  had  given  bond  to  pay.  Their  demands  gave  me 
a  great  deal  of  trouble,  my  acquainting  them  that  the  money 
was  ready  in  the  paymaster's  hands,  but  that  orders  for 
paying  it  must  first  be  obtained  from  General  Shirley,  and 
my  assuring  them  that  I  had  apply'd  to  that  general  by 
letter;  but,  he  being  at  a  distance,  an  answer  could  not 
soon  be  receiv'd^  and  they  must  have  patience,  all  this  was 
not  sufficient  to  satisfy,  and  some  began  to  sue  me.  Gen- 
eral Shirley  at  length  relieved  me  from  this  terrible  situa- 
tion by  appointing  commissioners  to  examine  the  claims, 
and  ordering  payment.  They  amounted  to  near  twenty 
thousand  pound,  which  to  pay  would  have  ruined  me. 

Before  we  had  the  news  of  this  defeat,  the  two  Doctors 
Bond  came  to  me  with  a  subscription  paper  for  raising  money 
to  defray  the  expense  of  a  grand  firework,  which  it  was 
intended  to  exhibit  at  a  rejoicing  on  receipt  of  the  news 
of  our  taking  Fort  Duquesne.  I  looked  grave,  and  said  it 
would;.  I  thought^  be  time  enough  to  prepare  for  the  rejoicing 


144  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

when  we  knew  we  should  have  occasion  to  rejoice.  They 
seem'd  surpris'd  that  I  did  not  immediately  comply  with 
their  proposal.  "  Why  the  d — 1 !  "  says  one  of  them,  "  you 
surely  don't  suppose  that  the  fort  will  not  be  taken  ?  "  "I 
idon't  know  that  it  will  not  be  taken,  but  I  know  that  the  events 
of  war  are  subject  to  great  uncertainty."  I  gave  them  the 
reasons  of  my  doubting;  the  subscription  was  dropt,  and 
the  projectors  thereby  missed  the  mortification  they  would 
have  undergone  if  the  firework  had  been  prepared.  Dr. 
Bond,  on  some  other  occasion  afterward,  said  that  he  did 
not  like  Franklin's  forebodings. 

Governor  Morris,  who  had  continually  worried  the  As- 
'sembly  with  message  after  message  before  the  defeat  of 
Braddock,  to  beat  them  into  the  making  of  acts  to  raise 
money  for  the  defense  of  the  province,  v/ithout  taxing, 
among  others,  the  proprietary  estates,  and  had  rejected  all 
their  bills  for  not  having  such  an  exempting  clause,  now 
redoubled  his  attacks  with  more  hope  of  success,  the  danger 
and  necessity  being  greater.  The  Assembly,  however,  con- 
tinu'd  firm,  believing  they  had  justice  on  their  side,  and  that 
it  would  be  giving  up  an  essential  right  if  they  suffered 
the  governor  to  amend  their  money-bills.  In  one  of  the 
last,  indeed,  which  was  for  granting  fifty  thousand  pounds, 
his  propos'd  amendment  was  only  of  a  single  word.  The 
bill  expressed  "that  all  estates,  real  and  personal,  were  to 
be  taxed,  those  of  the  proprietaries  not  excepted."  His 
amendment  was,  for  not  read  only :  sl  small,  but  very  material 
alteration.  However,  when  the  news  of  this  disaster  reached 
England,  our  friends  there,  w^om  we  had  taken  care  to  fur- 
nish with  all  the  Assembly's  answers  to  the  governor's  mes- 
sages, rais'd  a  clamor  against  the  proprietaries  for  their 
meanness  and  injustice  in  giving  their  governor  such  in- 
structions; some  going  so  far  as  to  say  that,  by  obstructing 
the  defense  of  their  province,  they  forfeited  their  right  to  it. 
They  were  intimidated  by  this,  and  sent  orders  to  their 
receiver-general  to  add  five  thousand  pounds  of  their  money 
to  whatever  sum  might  be  given  by  the  Assembly  for  such 
purpose. 

This,  being  notified  to  the  House,  was  accepted  in  lieu 
of  their  share  of  a  general  tax,  and  a  new  bill  was  form'd. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  145 

with  an  exempting  clause,  which  passed  accordingly.  By 
this  act  I  was  appointed  one  of  the  commissioners  for  dis- 
posing of  the  money,  sixty  thousand  pounds.  I  had  been 
active  in  modelling  the  bill  and  procuring  its  passage,  and 
had,  at  the  same  time,  drawn  a  bill  for  establishing  and 
disciplining  of  a  voluntary  militia,  which  I  carried  thro'  the 
House  without  much  difficulty,  as  care  was  taken  in  it  to 
leave  the  Quakers  at  their  liberty.  To  promote  the  associa- 
tion necessary  to  form  the  militia,  I  wrote  a  dialogue,^* 
stating  and  answering  all  the  objections  I  could  think  of  to 
such  a  militia,  which  was  printed,  and  had,  as  I  thought, 
great  effect. 

While  the  several  companies  in  the  city  and  country 
were  forming  and  learning  their  exercise,  the  gc^vernor  pre- 
vail'd  with  me  to  take  charge  of  our  North-western  frontier, 
which  was  infested  by  the  enem)^,  and  provide  for  the  defense 
of  the  inhabitants  by  raising  troops  and  building  a  line  of 
forts.  I  undertook  this  military  business,  tho'  I  did  not  con- 
ceive myself  well  qualified  for  it.  He  gave  me  a  commission 
with  full  powers,  and  a  parcel  of  blank  commissions  for 
officers,  to  be  given  to  whom  I  thought  fit.  I  had  but  little 
difficulty  in  raising  men,  having  soon  five  hundred  and  sixty 
under  my  command.  My  son,  who  had  in  the  preceding 
war  been  an  officer  in  the  army  rais'd  against  Canada,  was 
my  aid-de-camp,  and  of  great  use  to  me.  The  Indians  had 
burned  Gnadenhut,  a  village  settled  by  the  Moravians,  and 
massacred  the  inhabitants;  but  the  place  was  thought  a 
good  situation  for  one  of  the  forts. 

In  order  to  march  thither,  I  assembled  the  companies  at 
Bethlehem,  the  chief  establishment  of  those  people.  I  was 
surprised  to  find  it  in  so  good  a  posture  of  defense;  the 
destruction  of  Gnadenhut  had  made  them  apprehend  danger. 
The  principal  buildings  were  defended  by  a  stockade;  they 
had  purchased  a  quantity  of  arms  and  ammunition  from 
New  York,  and  had  even  plac'd  quantities  of  small  paving 
stones  between  the  windows  of  their  high  stone  houses,  for 
their  women  to  throw  down  upon  the  heads  of  any  Indians 
that  should  attempt  to  force  into  them.    The  armed  brethren, 

^  Xhis  dialogue  and  the  mSitia  act  are  in  the  "  Gentleman's  Magazine  " 
for  February  a5<i  March,  t^i&i — ^Marg.  nofe-.} 


146  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN  / 

too,  kept  watch,  and  reliev'd  as  methodically  as  in  any  gar- 
rison town.  In  conversation  with  the  bishop,  Spailgenberg, 
I  mentioned  this  my  surprise;  for,  knowing  they  had  ob- 
tained an  act  of  Parhament  exempting  them  from  military 
duties  in  the  colonies,  I  had  suppos'd  they  were  conscien- 
tiously scrupulous  of  bearing  arms'.  He  answer'd  me  that 
it  was  not  one  of  their  established  principles,  but  that,  at 
the  time  of  their  obtaining  that  act,  it  was  thought  to  be  a 
principle  with  many  of  their  people.  On  this  occasion,  hov/- 
ever,  they,  to  their  surprise,  found  it  adopted  by  but  a  few. 
It  seems  they  were  either  deceiv'd  in  themselves,  or  deceiv'd 
the  Parliament ;  but  common  sense,  aided  by  present  danger, 
will  sometimes  be  too  strong  for  whimsical  opinions. 

It  was  the  beginning  of  January  when  we  set  out  upon  this 
business  of  building  forts.  I  sent  one  detachment  toward 
the  Minisink,  with  instructions  to  erect  one  for  the  security 
of  that  upper  part  of  the  country^  and  another  to  the  lower 
part,  with  similar  instructions;  and  I  concluded  to  go 
myself  with  the  rest  of  my  force  to  Gnadenhut,  where  a 
fort  was  tho't  more  immediately  necessary.  The  Moravians 
procur'd  me  five  waggons  for  our  tools,  stores,  baggage,  etc. 

Just  before  we  left  Bethlehem,  eleven  farmers,  who  had 
been  driven  from  their  plantations  by  the  Indians,  came  to 
me  requesting  a  supply  of  firearms,  that  they  might  go  back 
and  fetch  off  their  cattle.  I  gave  them  each  a  gun  with 
suitable  ammunition.  We  had  not  march'd  many  miles 
before  it  began  to  rain,  and  it  continued  raining  all  day; 
there  were  no  habitations  on  the  road  to  shelter  us,  till  we 
arriv'd  near  night  at  the  house  of  a  German,  where,  and  in 
his  barn,  we  were  all  huddled  together,  as  wet  as  water 
could  make  us.  It  was  well  we  were  not  attack'd  in  our 
march,  for  our  arms  were  of  the  most  ordinary  sort,  and 
our  men  could  not  keep  their  gun  locks  dry.  The  Indians 
are  dextrous  in  contrivances  for  that  purpose,  which  we  had 
not.  They  met  that  day  the  eleven  poor  farm.ers  above 
mentioned,  and  killed  ten  of  them.  The  one  who  escap'd 
inform'd  that  his  and  his  companions'  guns  would  not  go  off, 
the  priming  being  wet  with  the  rain. 

The  next  day  being  fair,  we  continu'd  our  march,  and 
arriv'd  at  the  desolated  Gnadenhut.    There  was  a  saw-mill 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  147 

near,  round  which  were  left  several  piles  of  boards,  with 
which  we  soon  hutted  ourselves;  an  operation  the  more 
necessary  at  that  inclement  season,  as  we  had  no  tents.  Our 
first  work  was  to  bury  more  effectually  the  dead  we  found 
there,  who  had  been  half  interr'd  by  the  country  people. 

The  next  morning  our  fort  was  plann'd  and  mark'd  out, 
the  circumference  m.easuring  four  hundred  and  fifty-five 
feet,  which  would  require  as  m.any  palisades  to  be  made  of 
trees,  one  with  another,  of  a  foot  diameter  each.  Our  axes, 
of  which  we  had  seventy,  were  immediately  set  to  work  to 
cut  down  trees,  and,  our  men  being  dextrous  in  the  use  of 
them,  great  despatch  was  made.  Seeing  the  trees  fall  so 
fast,  I  had  the  curiosity  to  look  at  my  watch  when  two  men 
began  to  cut  at  a  pine;  in  six  minutes  they  had  it  upoii 
the  ground,  and  I  found  it  of  fourteen  inches  diameter-. 
Each  pine  made  three  palisades  of  eighteen  feet  long, 
pointed  at  one  end.  While  these  were  preparing,  our  other 
men  dug  a  trench  all  round,  of  three  feet  deep,  in  which  the 
palisades  v/ere  to  be  planted;  and,  our  waggons,  the  bodys 
being  taken  off,  and  the  fore  and  hind  wheels  separated  by 
taking  out  the  pin  which  united  the  two  parts  of  the  perch, 
we  had  ten  carriages,  with  two  horses  each,  to  bring  the 
palisades  from  the  woods  to  the  spot.  When  they  were  set 
up,  our  carpenters  built  a  stage  of  boards  all  round  within, 
about  six  feet  high,  for  the  men  to  stand  on  when  to  fire 
thro'  the  loopholes.  We  had  one  swivel  gun,  which  we 
mounted  on  one  of  the  angles,  and  fir'd  it  as  soon  as  fix'd,  to 
let  the  Indians  know,  if  any  were  within  hearing,  that  we 
had  such  pieces;  and  thus  our  fort,  if  such  a  magnificent 
name  may  be  given  to  so  miserable  a  stockade,  was  finish'd 
in  a  week,  though  it  rain'd  so  hard  every  other  day  that  the 
men  could  not  work. 

This  gave  me  occasion  to  observe,  that,  when  men  are 
employ'd,  they  are  best  content'd;  for  on  the  days  they 
worked  they  were  good-natur'd  and  cheerful,  and,  with  the 
consciousness  of  having  done  a  good  day's  work,  they  spent 
the  evening  jollily;  but  on  our  idle  days  they  v/ere  mu- 
tinous and  quarrelsome,  finding  fault  with  their  pork,  the 
bread,  etc.,  and  in  continual  ill-humor,  which  put  me  in 
mind  of  a  sea-captain,  whose  rule  it  was  to  keep  his  men 


148  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

constantly  at  work;  and,  when  his  mate  once  told  him  that 
they  had  done  every  thing,  and  there  was  nothing  further 
to  employ  them  about,  "  Oh,"  says  he,  "  make  them  scour 
the  anchor." 

This  kind  of  fort,  however  contemptible,  is  a  sufficient 
defense  against  Indians,  who  have  no  cannon.  Finding  our- 
selves now  posted  securely,  and  having  a  place  to  retreat 
to  on  occasion,  we  ventur'd  out  in  parties  to  scour  the  ad- 
jacent country.  We  met  with  no  Indians,  but  we  found 
the  places  on  the  neighboring  hills  where  they  had  lain  to 
watch  our  proceedings.  There  was  an  art  in  their  con- 
trivance of  those  places,  that  seems  worth  mention.  It 
being  winter,  a  fire  was  necessary  for  them;  but  a  common 
fire  on  the  surface  of  the  ground  would  by  its  light  have 
discovered  their  position  at  a  distance.  They  had  therefore 
dug  holes  in  the  ground  about  three  feet  diameter,  and  some- 
what deeper;  we  saw  where  they  had  with  their  hatchets 
cut  off  the  charcoal  from  the  sides  of  burnt  logs  lying  in 
the  woods.  With  these  coals  they  had  made  small  fires  in 
the  bottom  of  the  holes,  and  we  observed  among  the  weeds 
and  grass  the  prints  of  their  bodies,  made  by  their  laying 
all  round,  with  their  legs  hanging  down  in  the  holes  to  keep 
their  feet  warm,  which,  with  them,  Is  an  essential  point. 
This  kind  of  fire,  so  manag'd,  could  not  discover  them,  either 
by  its  light,  flame,  sparks,  or  even  smoke:  it  appear'd  that 
their  number  was  not  great,  and  it  seems  they  saw  we  were 
too  many  to  be  attacked  by  them  with  prospect  of  advantage. 

We  had  for  our  chaplain  a  zealous  Presbyterian  minister, 
Mr.  Beatty,  who  complained  to  me  that  the  men  did  not 
generally  attend  his  prayers  and  exhortations.  When  they 
enlisted,  they  were  promised,  besides  pay  and  provisions,  a 
gill  of  rum  a  day,  which  was  punctually  serv'd  out  to  them, 
half  in  the  morning,  and  the  other  half  in  the  evening;  and 
I  observ'd  they  were  as  punctual  in  attending  to  receive  it; 
upon  which  I  said  to  Mr.  Beatty,  "  It  is,  perhaps,  below  the 
dignity  of  your  profession  to  act  as  steward  of  the  rum, 
but  if  you  were  to  deal  it  out  and  only  just  after  prayers, 
you  would  have  them  all  about  you."  He  liked  the  tho't, 
undertook  the  office,  and,  with  the  help  of  a  few  hands  to 
measure   out   the   liquor,   executed  it   to   satisfaction,   and 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  149 

never  were  prayers  more  generally  and  more  punctually 
attended;  so  that  I  thought  this  method  preferable  to  the 
punishment  inflicted  by  some  military  laws  for  non-attend- 
ance on  divine  service. 

I  had  hardly  finish'd  this  business,  and  got  my  fort  well 
stor'd  with  provisions,  when  I  receiv'd  a  letter  from  the 
governor,  acquainting  me  that  he  had  call'd  the  Assembly, 
and  wished  my  attendance  there,  if  the  posture  of  affairs  on 
the  frontiers  was  such  that  my  remaining  there  was  no 
longer  necessary.  My  friends,  too,  of  the  Assembly,  press- 
ing me  by  their  letters  to  be,  if  possible,  at  the  meeting, 
and  my  three  intended  forts  being  now  compleated,  and  the 
inhabitants  contented  to  remain  on  their  farms  under  that 
protection,  I  resolved  to  return;  the  more  willingly,  as  a 
New  England  officer,  Colonel  Clapham,  experienced  in  In- 
dian war,  being  on  a  visit  to  our  establishment,  consented  to 
accept  the  command.  I  gave  him  a  commission,  and,  parad- 
ing the  garrison,  had  it  read  before  them,  and  introduc'd 
him  to  them  as  an  officer  who,  from  his  skill  in  military 
afifairs,  was  much  more  fit  to  command  them  than  myself; 
and,  giving  them  a  little  exhortation,  took  my  leave.  I  was 
escorted  as  far  as  Bethlehem,  where  I  rested  a  few  days  to 
recover  from  the  fatigue  I  had  undergone.  The  first  night, 
being  in  a  good  bed,  I  could  hardly  sleep,  it  was  so  different 
from  my  hard  lodging  on  the  floor  of  our  hut  at  Gnaden 
wrapt  only  in  a  blanket  or  two. 

While  at  Bethlehem,  I  inquir'd  a  little  into  the  practice  of 
the  Moravians:  some  of  them  had  accompanied  me,  and  all 
were  very  kind  to  me.  I  found  they  work'd  for  a  common 
stock,  eat  at  common  tables,  and  slept  in  common  dormi- 
tories, great  numbers  together.  In  the  dormitories  I  ob- 
served loopholes,  at  certain  distances  all  along  just  under 
the  ceiling,  which  I  thought  judiciously  placed  for  change 
of  air.  I  was  at  their  church,  where  I  was  entertaln'd  with 
good  musick,  the  organ  being  accompanied  with  violins, 
hautboys,  flutes,  clarinets,  etc.  I  understood  that  their  ser- 
mons were  not  usually  pVeached  to  mixed  congregations  of 
men,  women,  and  children,  as  is  our  comm.on  practice,  but 
that  they  assembled  sometimes  the  married  men,  at  other 
times  their  wives,  then  the  young  men,  the  young  women. 


150  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

and  the  little  children,  each  division  by  itself.  The  sermon 
I  heard  was  to  the  latter,  who  came  in  and  were  plac'd  in 
rows  on  benches;  the  boys  tmder  the  conduct  of  a  young 
man,  their  tutor,  and  the  girls  conducted  by  a  young  woman. 
The  discourse  seem'd  well  adapted  to  their  capacities,  and 
was  delivered  in  a  pleasing,  familiar  manner,  coaxing  them, 
as  it  were,  to  be  good.  They  behav'd  very  orderly,  but 
looked  pale  and  unhealthy,  which  made  me  suspect  they  v/ere 
kept  too  much  within  doors,  or  not  allow'd  sufficient  exercise. 

I  inquir'd  concerning  the  Moravian  marriages,  whether 
the  report  was  true  that  they  were  by  lot.  I  was  told  that 
lots  were  us'd  only  in  particular  cases ;  that  generally,  when 
a  young  man  found  himself  dispos'd  to  marry,  he  inform'd 
the  eiders  of  his  class,  who  consulted  the  elder  ladies  that 
govern'd  the  young  women.  As  these  elders  of  the  different 
sexes  were  well  acquainted  with  the  tempers  and  dispositions 
of  their  respective  pupils,  they  could  best  judge  what  matches 
were  suitable,  and  their  judgments  were  generally  acquiesc'd 
in;  but  if,  for  example,  it  should  happen  that  two  or  three 
young  women  were  found  to  be  equally  proper  for  the 
young  man,  the  lot  was  then  recurred  to.  I  objected,  if  the 
matches  are  not  m.ade  by  the  mutual  choice  of  the  parties, 
some  of  them  may  chance  to  be  very  unhappy.  "  And  so 
they  may,"  answer'd  my  informer,  *'  if  you  let  the  parties 
chuse  for  themselves ; "  which,  indeed,  I  could  not  deny. 

Being  returned  to  Philadelphia,  I  found  the  association 
went  on  swimmingly,  the  inhabitants  that  were  not  Quakers 
having  pretty  generally  come  into  it,  formed  themselves  into 
companies,  and  chose  their  captains,  lieutenants,  and  ensigns, 
according  to  the  new  law.  Dr.  B.  visited  me,  and  gave  me 
an  account  of  the  pains  he  had  taken  to  spread  a  general 
good  liking  to  the  law,  and  ascribed  much  to  those  endeavors. 
I  had  had  the  vanity  to  ascribe  all  to  my  Dialogue;  however, 
not  knowing  but  that  he  might  be  in  the  right,  I  let  him 
enjoy  his  opinion,  which  I  take  to  be  generally  the  best  way 
in  such  cases.  The  officers,  meeting,  chose  me  to  be  colonel 
of  the  regiment,  which  I  this  time  accepted.  I  forget  how 
many  companies  we  had,  but  we  paraded  about  twelve  hun- 
dred well-looking  men,  with  a  company  of  artillery,  who 
had  been  furnished  with  six  brass  field-pieces,  which  they 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  151 

had  become  so  expert  in  the  use  of  as  to  fire  twelve  times  in 
a  minute.  The  first  time  I  reviewed  my  regiment  they 
accompanied  me  to  my  house,  and  would  salute  me  with 
some  rounds  fired  before  my  door,  which  shook  down  and 
broke  several  glasses  of  my  electrical  apparatus.  And  my 
new  honour  proved  not  much  less  brittle;  for  all  our  com- 
missions were  soon  after  broken  by  a  repeal  of  the  law  in 
England. 

'During  this  short  time  of  my  colonelship,  being  about  to 
set  out  on  a  journey  to  Virginia,  the  officers  of  my  regiment 
took  it  into  their  heads  that  it  would  be  proper  for  them 
to  escort  me  out  of  town,  as  far  as  the  Lower  Ferry.  Just 
as  I  was  getting  on  horseback  they  came  to  my  door,  between 
thirty  and  forty,  mounted,  and  all  in  their  uniforms.  I  had 
not  been  previously  acquainted  with  the  project,  or  I  should 
have  prevented  it,  being  naturally  averse  to  the  assum.ing 
of  state  on  any  occasion;  and  I  was  a  good  deal  chagrin'd 
at  their  appearance,  as  I  could  not  avoid  their  accompanying 
me.  What  made  it  worse  was,  that,  as  soon  as  we  began  to 
move,  they  drew  their  swords  and  rode  with  them  naked  all 
the  way.  Somebody  wrote  an  account  of  this  to  the  pro- 
prietor, and  it  gave  him  great  offense.  No  such  honor  had 
been  paid  him  when  in  the  province,  nor  to  any  of  his 
governors;  and  he  said  it  was  only  proper  to  princes  of  the 
blood  royal,  which  may  be  true  for  aught  I  know,  who  was, 
and  still  am,  ignorant  of  the  etiquette  in  such  cases. 

This  silly  affair,  however,  greatly  increased  his  rancour 
against  me,  which  was  before  not  a  little,  on  account  of  my 
conduct  in  the  Assembly  respecting  the  exemption  of  his 
estate  from  taxation,  which  I  had  always  oppos'd  very 
warmly,  and  not  without  severe  reflections  on  his  meanness 
and  injustice  of  contending  for  it.  He  accused  me  to  the 
ministry  as  being  the  great  obstacle  to  the  king's  service, 
preventing,  by  my  influence  in  the  House,  the  proper  form 
of  the  bills  for  raising  money,  and  he  instanced  this  parade 
with  my  officers  as  a  proof  of  my  having  an  intention  to  take 
the  government  of  the  province  out  of  his  hands  by  force. 
He  also  applied  to  Sir  Everard  Fawkener,  the  postmaster- 
general,  to  deprive  me  of  my  office ;  but  it  had  no  other  effect 
than  to  procure  from.  Sir  Everard  a  gentle  admonition. 


152  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

Notwithstanding  the  continual  wrangle  between  the  gov- 
ernor and  the  House,  in  which  I,  as  a  member,  had  so  large 
a  share,  there  still  subsisted  a  civil  intercourse  between  that 
gentleman  and  myself,  and  we  never  had  any  personal  dif- 
ference. I  have  sometimes  since  thought  that  his  little  or 
no  resentment  against  me,  for  the  answers  it  was  known  I 
drew  up  to  his  messages,  might  be  the  effect  of  professional 
habit,  and  that,  being  bred  a  lawyer,  he  mJght  consider  us 
both  as  merely  advocates  for  contending  clients  in  a  suit, 
he  for  the  proprietaries  and  I  for  the  Assembly.  He  would, 
therefore,  sometimes  call  in  a  friendly  way  to  advise  with 
me  on  difficult  points,  and  sometimes,  tho'  not  often,  take 
my  advice. 

We  acted  in  concert  to  supply  Braddock's  army  with  pro- 
visions; and,  when  the  shocking  news  arrived  of  his  defeat, 
the  governor  sent  in  haste  for  me,  to  consult  with  him  on 
measures  for  preventing  the  desertion  of  the  back  counties. 
I  forget  now  the  advice  I  gave;  but  I  think  it  was,  that 
Dunbar  should  be  written  to,  and  prevail'd  with,  if  possible, 
to  post  his  troops  on  the  frontiers  for  their  protection,  till, 
by  re-enforcements  from  the  colonies,  he  might  be  able  to 
proceed  on  the  expedition.  And,  after  my  return  from  the 
frontier,  he  w^ould  have  had  me  undertake  the  conduct  of 
such  an  expedition  with  provincial  troops,  for  the  reduction 
of  Fort  Duquesne,  Dunbar  and  his  men  being  otherwise 
employed;  and  he  proposed  to  commission  me  as  general. 
I  had  not  so  good  an  opinion  of  my  military  abilities  as  he 
profess'd  to  have,  and  I  believe  his  professions  must  have 
exceeded  his  real  sentiments;  but  probably  he  might  think 
that  my  popularity  would  facilitate  the  raising  of  the  men, 
and  my  influence  in  Assembly,  the  grant  of  money  to  pay 
them,  and  that,  perhaps,  withoi^t  taxing  the  proprietary 
estate.  Finding  me  not  so  forward  to  engage  as  he  expected, 
the  project  was  dropt,  and  he  soon  after  left  the  government, 
being  superseded  by  Captain  Denny. 

Before  I  proceed  in  relating  the  part  I  had  in  public  affairs 
under  this  new  governor's  administration,  it  may  not  be 
amiss  here  to  give  some  account  of  the  rise  and  progress  of 
my  philosophical  reputation. 

In  1746,  being  at  Boston,  I  met  there  with  a  Dr.  Spence, 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  153 

who  was  lately  arrived  from  Scotland,  and  show'd  me  some 
electric  experiments.  They  were  imperfectly  perform'd,  as 
he  was  not  very  expert;  but,  being  on  a  subject  quite  new 
to  me,  they  equally  surpris'd  and  pleased  me.  Soon  after  my 
return  to  Philadelphia,  our  library  company  receiv'd  from 
Mr.  P.  Collinson,  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London,  a 
present  of  a  glass  tube,  with  some  account  of  the  use  of  it 
in  making  such  experiments.  I  eagerly  seized  the  oppor- 
tunity of  repeating  what  I  had  seen  at  Boston;  and,  by 
much  practice,  acquir'd  great  readiness  in  performing  those, 
also,  which  we  had  an  account  of  from  England,  adding  a 
number  of  new  ones.  I  say  much  practice,  for  my  house 
was  continually  full,  for  some  time,  with  people  who  came 
to  see  these  new  wonders. 

To  divide  a  liftle  this  incumbrance  among  my  friends,  I 
caused  a  number  of  similar  tubes  to  be  blown  at  our  glass- 
house, with  which  they  furnish'd  themselves,  so  that  we  had 
at  length  several  performers.  Among  these,  the  principal 
,was  Mr.  Kinnersley,  an  ingenious  neighbor,  who,  being  out 
of  business,  I  encouraged  to  undertake  showing  the  experi- 
ments for  money,  and  drew  up  for  him  two  lectures,  in  which 
the  experiments  were  rang'd  in  such  order,  and  accompanied 
with  such  explanations  in  such  method,  as  that  the  fore- 
going should  assist  in  comprehending  the  following.  He 
procur'd  an  elegant  apparatus  for  the  purpose,  in  which  all 
the  little  machines  that  I  had  roughly  made  for  myself  were 
nicely  form'd  by  instrument-makers.  His  lectures  were  well 
attended,  and  gave  great  satisfaction;  and  after  some  time 
he  went  thro'  the  colonies,  exhibiting  them  in  every  capital 
town,  and  pick'd  up  some  money.  In  the  West  India  islands, 
indeed,  it  was  with  difficulty  the  experiments  could  be  made, 
from  the  general  moisture  of  the  air. 

Oblig'd  as  we  were  to  Mr.  Collinson  for  his  present  of  the 
tube,  etc.,  I  thought  it  right  he  should  be  inform'd  of  our 
success  in  using  it,  and  wrote  him  several  letters  containing 
accounts  of  our  experiments.  He  got  them  read  in  the  Royal 
Society,  where  they  were  not  at  first  thought  worth  so 
much  notice  as  to  be  printed  in  their  Transactions.  One 
paper,  which  I  wrote  for  Mr.  Kinnersley,  on  the  sameness 
of   lightning   with   electricity,   I    sent   to   Dr.    Mitchel,   an 


154  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

acquaintance  of  mine,  and  one  of  the  members  also  of  that 
society,  who  wrote  me  word  that  it  had  been  read,  but  was 
laughed  at  by  the  connoisseurs.  The  papers,  however,  being 
shown  to  Dr.  Fothergill,  he  thought  them  of  too  much  value 
to  be  stifled,  and  advis'd  the  printing  of  them.  Mr.  Collinson 
then  gave  them  to  Cave  for  publication  in  his  Gentleman's 
Magazine;  but  he  chose  to  print  them  separately  in  a 
pam-phlet,  and  Dr.  Fothergill  wrote  the  preface.  Cave,  it 
seems,  judged  rightly  for  his  profit,  for  by  the  additions 
that  arrived  afterward  they  swell'd  to  a  quarto  volume, 
which  has  had  five  editions,  and  cost  him  nothing  for 
copy-money. 

It  was,  however,  some  time  before  those  papers  were  much 
taken  notice  of  in  England.  A  copy  of  them  happening  to 
fall  into  the  hands  of  the  Count  de  Buffon,  a  philosopher 
deservedly  of  great  reputation  in  France,  and,  indeed,  all 
over  Europe,  he  prevailed  with  M.  Dalibard  to  translate 
them  into  French,  and  they  were  printed  at  Paris.  The 
publication  offended  the  Abbe  NoUet,  preceptor  in  Natural 
Philosophy  to  the  royal  family,  and  an  able  experimenter, 
who  had  form'd  and  publish'd  a  theory  of  electricit}'-,  which 
then  had  the  general  vogue.  He  could  not  at  first  believe 
that  such  a  work  came  from  America,  and  said  it  must  have 
been  fabricated  by  his  enemies  at  Paris,  to  decry  his  system. 
Afterwards,  having  been  assur'd  that  there  really  existed 
such  a  person  as  Franklin  at  Philadelphia,  which  he  had 
doubted,  he  wrote  and  published  a  volume  of  Letters,  chiefly 
address'd  to  me,  defending  his  theory,  and  denying  the  verity 
of  my  experiments,  and  of  t'he  positions  deduc'd  from  them. 

I  once  purpos'd  answering  the  abbe,  and  actually  began 
the  answer;  but,  on  consideration  that  my  writings  con- 
tain'd  a  description  of  experiments  which  any  one  might 
repeat  and  verif}'-,  and  if  not  to  be  verifi'd,  could  not  be 
defended;  or  of  observations  offer'd  as  conjectures,  and  not 
delivered  dogmatically,  therefore  not  laying  me  under  any 
obligation  to  defend  them;  and  reflecting  that  a  dispute 
between  two  persons,  writing  in  different  languages,  might 
be  lengthened  greatly  by  mistranslations,  and  thence  miscon- 
ceptions of  one  another's  meaning,  much  of  one  of  the 
abbe's  letters  being  founded  on  an  error  in  the  translation 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  155 

I  concluded  to  let  my  papers  shift  for  themselves,  believing 
it  was  better  to  spend  what  time  I  could  spare  from  public 
business  in  making  new  experiments,  than  in  disputing  about 
those  already  made".  I  therefore  never  answered  M.  Nollet, 
and  the  event  gave  me  no  cause  to  repent  my  silence;  for 
m.y  friend  M.  le  Roy,  of  the  Royal  Academy  of  Sciences, 
took  up  my  cause  and  refuted  him ;  my  book  was  translated 
into  the  ItaHan,  German,  and  Latin  languages;  and  the 
doctrine  it  contain'd  was  by  degrees  universally  adopted  by 
the  philosophers  of  Europe,  in  preference  to  that  of  the 
abbe;    so  that  he  lived  to  see  himself  the  last  of  his  sect, 

except  Monsieur  B ,  of  Paris,  his  eleve  and  immediate 

disciple. 

What  gave  my  book  the  more  sudden  and  general  celebrity, 
was  the  success  of  one  of  its  proposed  experiments,  made  by 
Messrs.  Dalibard  and  De  Lor  at  Marly,  for  drawing  light- 
ning from  the  clouds.  This  engaged  the  public  attention 
every  where,  M.  de  Lor,  who  had  an  apparatus  tor  experi- 
mental philosophy,  and  lectur'd  in  that  branch  of  science, 
undertook  to  repeat  what  he  called  the  Philadelphia  Experi- 
ments; and,  after  they  were  performed  before  the  king  and 
court,  all  the  curious  of  Paris  flocked  to  see  them.  I  will 
not  swell  this  narrative  with  an  account  of  that  capital 
experiment,  nor  of  the  infinite  pleasure  I  receiv'd  in  the 
success  of  a  similar  one  I  made  soon  after  with  a  kite  at 
Philadelphia,  as  both  are  to  be  found  in  the  histories  of 
electricity. 

Dr.  Wright,  an  English  physician,  v/hen  at  Paris,  wrote 
to  a  friend,  who  was  of  the  Royal  Society,  an  account  of  the 
high  esteem  my  experiments  were  in  among  the  learned 
abroad,  and  of  their  wonder  that  my  writings  had  been  so 
little  noticed  in  England.  The  society,  on  this,  resum'd  the 
consideration  of  the  letters  that  had  been  read  to  them ;  and 
the  celebrated  Dr.  Watson  drew  up  a  sumimary  account  of 
them,  and  of  all  I  had  afterwards  sent  to  England  on  the 
subject,  which  he  accompanied  with  som.e  praise  of  the 
writer.  This  summary  was  then  printed  in  their  Transac- 
tions ;  and  some  micmbers  of  the  society  in  London,  particu- 
larly the  very  ingenious  Mr.  Canton,  having  verified  the 
experiment  of  procuring  lightning  from   the   clouds  by   a 


156  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

pointed  rod,  and  acquainting  them  with  the  success,  they 
soon  made  me  more  than  amends  for  the  slight  with  which 
they  had  before  treated  me.  Without  my  having  made  any 
application  for  that  honor,  they  chose  me  a  member,  and 
voted  that  I  should  be  excus'd  the  customary  payments, 
which  would  have  amounted  to  twenty-five  guineas;  and 
ever  since  have  given  me  their  Transactions  gratis.  They 
also  presented  me  with  the  gold  medal  of  Sir  Godfrey  Copley 
for  the  year  1753,  the  delivery  of  which  was  accompanied  by 
a  very  handsome  speech  of  the  president.  Lord  Macclesfield, 
wherein  I  was  highly  honoured. 

Our  new  governor.  Captain  Denny,  brought  over  for  me 
the  before-micntioned  medal  from  the  Royal  Society,  which 
he  presented  to  me  at  an  entertainment  given  him  by  the 
city.  He  accompanied  it  with  very  polite  expressions  of  his 
esteem  for  me,  having,  as  he  said,  been  long  acquainted  with 
my  character.  After  dinner,  when  the  company,  as  was 
customary  at  that  time,  were  engag'd  in  drinking,  he  took 
me  aside  into  another  room,  and  acquainted  me  that  he  had 
been  advis'd  by  his  friends  in  England  to  cultivate  a  friend- 
ship with  me,  as  one  who  was  capable  of  giving  him  the 
best  advice,  and  of  contributing  most  effectually  to  the 
making  his  administration  easy;  that  he  therefore  desired 
of  all  things  to  have  a  good  understanding  with  me,  and  he 
begg'd  me  to  be  assur'd  of  his  readiness  on  all  occasions  to 
render  me  every  service  that  might  be  in  his  power.  He 
said  much  to  me,  also,  of  the  proprietor's  good  disposition 
towards  the  province,  and  of  the  advantage  it  might  be  to 
us  all,  and  to  me  in  particular,  if  the  opposition  that  had 
been  so  long  continu'd  to  his  measures  was  dropt,  and  har- 
mony restor'd  between  him  and  the  people;  in  effecting 
which,  it  was  thought  no  one  could  be  more  serviceable  than 
myself;  and  I  might  depend  on  adequate  acknowledgments 
and  recompenses,  etc.,  etc.  The  drinkers,  finding  we  did  not 
return  immediately  to  the  table,  sent  us  a  decanter  of 
Madeira,  which  the  governor  made  liberal  use  of,  and  in 
proportion  became  more  profuse  of  his  solicitations  and 
promises. 

My  answers  were  to  this  purpose :  that  my  circumstances, 
thanks  to  God,  were  such  as  to  make  proprietary  favours 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  157 

unnecessary  to  me ;  and  that,  being  a  member  of  the  Assem- 
bly, I  could  not  possibly  accept  of  any ;  that,  however,  I  had 
no  personal  enmity  to  the  proprietary,  and  that,  whenever 
the  public  measures  he  propos'd  should  appear  to  be  for  the 
good  of  the  people,  no  one  should  espouse  and  forward  them 
more  zealously  than  myself ;  my  past  opposition  having  been 
founded  on  this,  that  the  measures  which  had  been  urged 
were  evidently  intended  to  serve  the  proprietary  interest, 
with  great  prejudice  to  that  of  the  people;  that  I  was  much 
obliged  to  him  (the  governor)  for  his  professions  of  regard 
to  me,  and  that  he  might  rely  on  every  thing  in  my  power 
to  make  his  administration  as  easy  as  possible,  hoping  at 
the  same  time  that  he  had  not  brought  with  him  the  same 
unfortunate  instruction  his  predecessor  had  been  hamper'd 
with. 

On  this  he  did  not  then  explain  himself;  but  when  he 
afterwards  came  to  do  business  with  the  Assembly,  they 
appear'd  again,  the  disputes  were  renewed,  and  I  was  as 
active  as  ever  in  the  opposition,  being  the  penman,  first,  of 
the  request  to  have  a  communication  of  the  instructions,  and 
then  of  the  remarks  upon  them,  which  may  be  found  in  the 
votes  of  the  time,  and  in  the  Historical  Review  I  afterward 
publish'd.  But  between  us  personally  no  enmity  arose;  we 
were  often  together;  he  was  a  man  of  letters,  had  seen 
much  of  the  world,  and  was  very  entertaining  and  pleasing 
in  conversation.  He  gave  me  the  first  information  that  my 
old  friend  Jas.  Ralph  was  still  alive;  that  he  was,  esteem'd 
one  of  the  best  political  writers  in  England;  had  been  em- 
ploy'd  in  the  dispute  between  Prince  Frederic  and  the  king, 
and  had  obtain'd  a  pension  of  three  hundred  a  year;  that 
his  reputation  was  indeed  small  as  a  poet.  Pope  having 
damned  his  poetry  in  the  Dunciad;  but  his  prose  was 
thought  as  good  as  any  man's. 

^'The  Assembly  finally  finding  the  proprietary  obstinately 
persisted  in  manacling  their  deputies  with  instructions  in- 
consistent not  only  with  the  privileges  of  the  people,  but 
with  the  service  of  the  crown,  resolv'd  to  petition  the  king 
against  them,  and  appointed  me  their  agent  to  go  over  to 

^The  many  unanimous  resolves  of  the  Assembly  —  what  date?  — 
{Marg.  note. I 


1S8  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

England,  to  present  and  support  the  petition.  The  House 
had  sent  up  a  bill  to  the  governor,  granting  a  sum  of  sixty 
thousand  pounds  for  the  king's  use  (ten  thousand  pounds  of 
which  was  subjected  to  the  orders  of  the  then  general,  Lord 
Loudoun),  which  the  governor  absolutely  refus'd  to  pass,  in 
compliance  with  his  instructions. 

I  had  agreed  with  Captain  Morris,  of  the  paquet  at  New 
York,  for  my  passage,  and  my  stores  were  put  on  board, 
when  Lord  Loudoun  arriv'd  at  Philadelphia,  expressly,  as 
he  told  me,  to  endeavor  an  accommodation  between  the 
governor  and  Assembly,  that  his  majesty's  service  might  not 
be  obstructed  by  their  dissensions.  Accordingly,  he  desir'd 
the  governor  and  myself  to  meet  him,  that  he  might  hear 
what  was  to  be  said  on  both  sides.  We  met  and  discuss'd 
the  business.  In  behalf  of  the  Assembly,  I  urg'd  all  the 
various  arguments  that  may  be  found  in  the  public  papers  of 
that  time,  which  were  of  my  writing,  and  are  printed  with 
the  minutes  of  the  Assembly;  and  the  governor  pleaded  his 
instructions;  the  bond  he  had  given  to  observe  them,  and 
his  ruin  if  he  disobey'd,  yet  seemed  not  unwilling  to  hazard 
himself  if  Lord  Loudoun  would  advise  it.  This  his  lordship 
did  not  chuse  to  do,  though  I  once  thought  I  had  nearly 
prevail'd  with  him  to  do  it;  but  finally  he  rather  chose  to 
urge  the  compliance  of  the  Assembly;  and  he  entreated  me 
to  use  my  endeavours  with  them  for  that  purpose,  declaring 
that  he  would  spare  none  of  the  king's  troops  for  the  defense 
of  our  frontiers,  and  that,  if  we  did  not  continue  to  provide 
for  that  defense  ourselves,  they  must  remain  expos'd  to  the 
enemy. 

I  acquainted  the  House  with  what  had  pass'd,  and,  pre- 
senting them  with  a  set  of  resolutions  I  had  drawn  up, 
declaring  our  rights,  and  that  we  did  not  relinquish  our 
claim  to  those  rights,  but  only  suspended  the  exercise  of 
them  on  this  occasion  thro'  force,  against  which  we  protested, 
they  at  length  agreed  to  drop  that  bill,  and  frame  another 
conformable  to  the  proprietary  instructions.  This  of  course 
the  governor  pass'd,  and  I  was  then  at  liberty  to  proceed  on 
my  voyage.  But,  in  the  meantime,  the  paquet  had  sailed 
with  my  sea-stores,  which  was  some  loss  to  me,  and  m.y 
only  recompense  was  his  lordship's  thanks  for  my  service. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  159 

all  the  credit  of  obtaining  the  accommodation  falling  to  his 
share. 

He  set  out  for  New  York  before  me;  and,  as  the  time 
for  dispatching  the  paquet-boats  was  at  his  disposition,  and 
there  were  two  then  remaining  there,  one  of  which,  he  said, 
,was  to  sail  very  soon,  I  requested  to  know  the  precise  time, 
that  I  miight  not  miss  her  by  any  delay  of  mine.  His  answer 
was,  "  I  have  given  out  that  she  is  to  sail  on  Saturday  next ; 
but  I  m.ay  let  you  know,  entre  nous,  that  if  you  are  there  by 
Monday  morning,  you  will  be  in  time,  but  do  not  delay 
longer."  By  some  accidental  hinderance  at  a  ferry,  it  was 
Monday  noon  before  I  arrived,  and  I  was  much  afraid  she 
might  have  sailed,  as  the  wind  was  fair;  but  I  was  soon 
made  easy  by  the  information  that  she  was  still  in  the  har- 
bor, and  would  not  move  till  the  next  day.  One  would 
imagine  that  I  was  now  on  the  very  point  of  departing  for 
Europe.  I  thought  so ;  but  I  was  not  then  so  well  acquainted 
with  his  lordship's  character,  of  which  indecision  was  one  of 
the  strongest  features.  I  shall  give  some  instances.  It  was 
about  the  beginning  of  April  that  I  came  to  New  York,  and  I 
think  it  was  near  the  end  of  June  before  we  sail'd.  There 
were  then  two  of  the  paquet-boats,  which  had  been  long  in 
port,  but  were  detained  for  the  general's  letters,  which  were 
always  to  be  ready  to-morrow.  Another  paquet  arriv'd; 
she  too  was  detain'd;  and,  before  we  sail'd,  a  fourth  was 
expected.  Ours  was  the  first  to  be  dispatch'd,  as  having  been 
there  longest.  Passengers  were  engag'd  in  all,  and  some 
extremely  impatient  to  be  gone,  and  the  merchants  uneasy 
about  their  letters,  and  the  orders  the}^  had  given  for  in- 
surance (it  being  war  time)  for  fall  goods  !  but  their  anxiety 
avail'd  nothing;  his  lordship's  letters  were  not  ready;  and 
yet  whoever  waited  on  him  found  him  always  at  his  desk, 
pen  in  hand,  and  concluded  he  must  needs  write  abundantly. 

Going  myself  one  morning  to  pay  my  respects,  I  found  in 
his  antechamber  one  Innis,  a  messenger  of  Philadelphia, 
who  had  come  from  thence  express  with  a  paquet  from  Gov- 
ernor Denny  for  the  General.  He  delivered  to  me  some 
letters  from,  my  friends  there,  which  occasion'd  my  inquiring 
when  he  was  to  return,  and  where  he  lodg'd,  that  I  might 
send  some  letters  by  him.     He  told  me  he  was  order'd  to 


160  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

call  to-morrow  at  nine  for  the  general's  answer  to  the  gov- 
ernor, and  should  set  off  immediately.  I  put  my  letters  into 
his  hands  the  same  day.  A  fortnight  after  I  met  him  again 
in  the  same  place.  "  So,  you  are  soon  return'd,  Innis  ?'* 
" Return' d!  no,  I  am  not  gone  yet."  "How  so?"  "I  have 
called  here  by  order  every  m.orning  these  two  weeks  past  fof 
his  lordship's  letter,  and  it  is  not  yet  ready."  "  Is  it  possible, 
when  he  is  so  great  a  writer  ?  for  I  see  him  constantly  at  his 
escritoire."  "  Yes,"  says  Innis,  "  but  he  is  like  St.  George 
on  the  signs,  always  on  horseback,  and  never  rides  on." 
This  observation  of  the  messenger  was,  it  seems,  well 
founded;  for,  when  in  England,  I  understood  that  Mr.  Pitt 
gave  it  as  one  reason  for  removing  this  general,  and  sending 
Generals  Amherst  and  Wolfe,  that  the  minister  never  heard 
from  him,  and  could  not  know  what  he  was  doing. 

This  daily  expectation  of  sailing,  and  all  the  three  paquets 
going  down  to  Sandy  Hook,  to  join  the  fleet  there,  the  pas- 
sengers thought  it  best  to  be  on  board,  lest  by  a  sudden 
order  the  ships  should  sail,  and  they  be  left  behind.  There, 
if  I  remember  right,  we  Vv^ere  about  six  weeks,  consuming 
our  sea-stores,  and  oblig'd  to  procure  more.  At  length  the 
fleet  sail'd,  the  General  and  all  his  army  on  board,  bound  to 
Louisburg,  with  intent  to  besiege  and  take  that  fortress ;  all 
the  paquet-boats  in  company  ordered  to  attend  the  General's 
ship,  ready  to  receive  his  dispatches  when  they  should  be 
ready.  We  were  out  five  days  before  we  got  a  letter  with 
leave  to  part,  and  then  our  ship  quitted  the  fleet  and  steered 
for  England.  The  other  two  paquets  he  still  detained,  car- 
ried them  v/ith  him  to  Halifax,  where  he  stayed  some  time 
to  exercise  the  men  in  sham  attacks  upon  sham  forts,  then 
alter'd  his  mind  as  to  besieging  Louisburg,  and  return'd  to 
New  York,  with  all  his  troops,  together  with  the  two  paquets 
above  mentioned,  and  all  their  passengers !  During  his 
absence  the  French  and  savages  had  taken  Fort  George,  on 
the  frontier  of  that  province,  and  the  savages  had  massacred 
many  of  the  garrison  after  capitulation. 

I  saw  afterwards  in  London  Captain  Bonnell,  who  com- 
manded one  of  those  paquets.  He  told  me  that,  when  he 
had  been  detain'd  a  month,  he  acquainted  his  lordship  that 
his  ship  was  grown  foul,  to  a  degree  that  must  necessarily 


.     HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  161 

hinder  her  fast  sailing,  a  point  of  consequence  for  a  paquet- 
boat,  and  requested  an  allowance  of  time  to  heave  her  down 
and  clean  her  bottom.  He  was  asked  how  long  time  that  would 
require.  He  answer'd,  three  days.  The  general  replied,  "  If 
you  can  do  it  in  one  day,  I  give  leave;  otherwise  not;  for 
you  must  certainly  sail  the  day  after  to-morrow."  So  he 
never  obtained  leave,  though  detained  afterwards  from  day 
to  day  during  full  three  months. 

I  saw  also  in  London  one  of  BonnelFs  passengers,  who 
was  so  enrag'd  against  his  lordship  for  deceiving  and  de- 
taining him  so  long  at  New  York,  and  then  carrying  him  to 
Halifax  and  back  again,  that  he  swore  he  would  sue  for 
damages.  Whether  he  did  or  not,  I  never  heard ;  but,  as  he 
represented  the  injury  to  his  affairs,  it  was  very  considerable. 

On  the  whole,  I  wonder'd  much  how  such  a  man  came  to 
be  intrusted  with  so  important  a  business  as  the  conduct  of 
a  great  army;  but,  having  since  seen  more  of  the  great 
world,  and  the  means  of  obtaining,  and  motives  for  giving 
places,  my  wonder  is  diminished.  General  Shirley,  on  whom 
the  command  of  the  army  devolved  upon  the  death  of  Brad- 
dock,  would,  in  my  opinion,  if  continued  in  place,  have  made 
a  much  better  campaign  than  that  of  Loudoun  in  1757,  which 
was  frivolous,  expensive,  and  disgraceful  to  our  nation  be- 
yond conception;  for,  tho''  Shirley  was  not  a  bred  soldier, 
he  was  sensible  and  sagacious  in  himself,  and  attentive  to 
good  advice  from  others,  capable  of  forming  judicious  plans, 
and  quick  and  active  in  carrying  them  into  execution.  Lou- 
doun, instead  of  defending  the  colonies  with  his  great  arm}?-, 
left  them  totally  expos'd  while  he  paraded  idly  at  Halifax, 
by  which  means  Fort  George  was  lost,  besides,  he  derang'd 
all  our  mercantile  operations,  and  distress'd  our  trade,  by  a 
long  embargo  on  the  exportation  of  provisions,  on  pretence 
of  keeping  supplies  from  being  obtain'd  by  the  enemy,  but 
in  reality  for  beating  down  their  price  in  favor  of  the  con- 
tractors, in  whose  profits,  it  was  said,  perhaps  from  suspicion 
only,  he  had  a  share.  And,  when  at  length  the  embargo  was 
taken  off,  by  neglecting  to  send  notice  of  it  to  Charlestown, 
the  Carolina  fleet  was  detain'd  near  three  months  longer, 
whereby  their  bottoms  were  so  much  damaged  by  the  worm 
that  a  great  part  of  them  foundered  in  their  passage  home. 

6  HC— Vol.  1 


^^  'Benjamin  franiclin 

Shirley  waSy  I  believe,  sincerely  glad  of  being-  relieves 
frcm  so  byrdensome  a  charge  as  the  conduct  of  an  army 
must  be  to  a  man  unacquainted  with  military  business.  I 
was  at  the  entertainment  given  by  the  city  o£  New  York  to 
Lord  Loudoun,  on  his  taking  upon  him  the  comm_and.  Shir- 
ley, tho'  thereby  superseded,  was  present  also.  There  was  a 
great  company  of  officers,  citizens,  and  strangers,  and,  some 
chairs  having  been  borrowed  in  the  neighborhood,  there  was 
one  among  them  very  low,  which  fell  to  the  lot  of  Mr. 
Shirley,  Perceiving  it  as  I  sat  by  him,  I  said,  "  They  have 
given  you,  sir,  too  low  a  seat''  "  No  matter/'  says  he,  "  Mr. 
Franklin,  I  find  a  low  seat  the  easiest." 

While  I  was,  as  afore  mention'd^  detain'd  at  New  York,  I 
receiv'd  all  the  accounts  of  the  provisions,  etc.,  that  I  had 
furnish'd  to  Braddock,  some  of  which  accounts  could  not 
sooner  be  obtain'd  from  the  different  persons  I  had  employed 
to  assist  in  the  business.  I  presented  them  to  Lord  Loudoun, 
desiring  to  be  paid  the  ballance.  He  caus'd  them  to  be  reg- 
ularly examined  by  the  proper  officer,  who,  after  comparing 
every  article  with  its  voucher,  certified  them  to  be  right ;  and 
the  balance  due  for  which  his  lordship  promis'd  to  give  me 
an  order  oa  the  paymaster.  This  was,  however,  put  off 
from  time  to  time ;  and,  tho'  I  call'd  often  for  it  by  appoint- 
ment, I  did  not  get  it.  At  length,  just  before  my  departure, 
he  told  me  he  had,  on  better  consideration,  concluded  not  to 
mix  his  accounts  with  those  of  his  predecessors.  "  And  you," 
says  he,  "  when  in  England,  have  only  to  exhibit  your 
accounts  at  the  treasury,  and  you  will  be  paid  immediately." 

I  mention'd,  but  without  effect,  the  great  and  unexpected 
expense  I  had  been  put  to  by  being  detain'd  so  long  at'New 
York,  as  a  reason  for  my  desiring  to  be  presently  paid ;  and 
on  my  observing  that  it  was  not  right  I  should  be  put  to 
any  further  trouble  or  delay  in  obtaining  the  money  I  had 
advanc'd,  as  I  charged  no  commission  for  my  service,  "  O, 
sir,"  says  he,  *'  you  must  not  think  of  persuading  us  that  you 
are  no  gainer ;  we  understand  better  those  affairs,  and  know 
that  every  one  concerned  in  supplying  the  army  finds  means, 
in  the  doing  it,  to  fill  his  own  pockets."  I  assur'd  him  that 
was  not  my  case,  and  that  I  had  not  pocketed  a  farthing; 
but  he  appeared  clearly  not  to  believe  me;    and,  indeed,  I 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  163 

have  since  learnt  that  immense  fortunes  are  often  made  in 
such  employments.  As  to  my  ballance,  I  am  not  paid  it  to 
this  day,  of  which  more  hereafter. 

Our  captain  of  the  paquet  had  boasted  much,  before  we 
sailed,  of  the  swiftness  of  his  ship ;  unfortunately,  Vv^hen  we 
came  to  sea,  she  proved  the  dullest  of  ninety-six  sail,  to  his 
no  small  mortification.  After  many  conjectures  respecting 
the  cause,  vv'hen  we  were  near  another  ship  almost  as  dull 
as  ours,  which,  however,  gain'd  upon  us,  the  captain  ordered 
all  hands  to  come  aft,  and  stand  as  near  the  ensign  staff  as 
possible.  We  were,  passengers  included,  about  forty  per- 
sons. While  we  stood  there,  the  ship  mended  her  pace,  and 
soon  left  her  neighbour  far  behind,  v/hich  prov'd  clearly 
what  our  captain  suspected,  that  she  was  loaded  too  much 
by  the  head.  The  casks  of  water,  it  seems,  had  been  all 
plac'd  forv\^ard;  these  he  therefore  order'd  to  be  mov'd 
further  aft,  on  which  the  ship  recover'd  her  character,  and 
proved  the  sailer  in  the  fleet. 

The  captain  said  she  had  once  gone  at  the  rate  of  thirteen 
knots,  which  is  accounted  thirteen  miles  per  hour.  We  had 
on  board,  as  a  passenger,  Captain  Kennedy,  of  the  Navy, 
who  contended  that  it  was  impossible,  and  that  no  ship  ever 
sailed  so  fast,  and  that  there  must  have  been  some  error  in 
the  division  of  the  log-line,  or  some  mistake  in  heaving  the 
log.  A  w^ager  ensu'd  betv/een  the  two  captains,  to  be  decided 
when  there  should  be  sufficient  wind.  Kennedy  thereupon 
examin'd  rigorously  the  log-line,  and,  being  satisfi'd  with 
that,  he  determin'd  to  throw  the  log  himself.  Accordingly 
some  days  after,  when  the  wind  blew  very  fair  and  fresh, 
and  the  captain  of  the  paquet,  Lutwidge,  said  he  believ'd 
she  then  went  at  the  rate  of  thirteen  knots,  Kennedy  made 
the  experiment,  and  own'd  his  wager  lost. 

The  above  fact  I  give  for  the  sake  of  the  following  ob- 
servation. It  has  been  remark'd,  as  an  imperfection  in  the 
art  of  ship-building,  that  it  can  never  be  known,  till  she 
is  tried,  whether  a  new  ship  will  or  will  not  be  a  good  sailer ; 
for  that  the  model  of  a  good-sailing  ship  has  been  exactly 
follow'd  in  a  new  one,  which  has  prov'd,  on  the  contrary, 
remarkably  dull.  I  apprehend  that  this  rnay  partly  be  oc- 
casion'd  by  the  different  opinions  of  seamen  respecting  the 


164  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

modes  o£  lading',  rigging,  and  sailing  of  a  ship^  each  has 
his  system;  and  the  same  vessel;,  laden  by  the  judgment 
and  orders  of  one  captain^,  shall  sail  better  or  worse  than 
when  by  the  orders  of  another.  Besides,  it  scarce  ever  ha|)- 
pens  that  a  ship  is  form'd,  fitted  for  the  sea,  and  sail'd  by 
the  same  person.  One  man  builds  the  hull,  another  rigs  her, 
a  third  lades  and  sails  her.  No  one  of  these  has  the  ad- 
vantage of  knowing  all  the  ideas  and  experience  of  the 
others,  and,  therefore,  can  not  draw  just  conclusions  from 
a  combination  of  the  whole. 

Even  in  the  simple  operation  of  sailing  when  at  sea,  I 
have  often  observ'd  different  judgments  in  the  officers  who 
commanded  the  successive  watches,  the  wind  being  the  same. 
One  would  have  the  sails  trimm'd  sharper  or  flatter  than 
another,  so  that  they  seem'd  to  have  no  certain  rule  to 
govern  by.  Yet  I  think  a  set  of  experiments  might  be 
instituted,  first,  to  determine  the  most  proper  form  of  the 
hull  for  swift  sailing;  next,  the  best  dimensions  and  prop- 
erest  place  for  the  masts:  then  the  form  and  quantity  of 
iiails,  and  their  position,  as  the  wind  may  be ;  and,  lastly,  the 
disposition  of  the  lading.  This  is  an  age  of  experiments,  and 
I  think  a  set  accurately  made  and  combin'd  would  be  of  great 
use.  I  am  persuaded,  therefore,  that  ere  long  some  ingenious 
philosopher  will  undertake  it,  to  whom  I  wish  success. 

We  were  several  times  chas'd  in  our  passage,  but  outsail'd 
every  thing,  and  in  thirty  days  had  soundings.  We  had  a 
■good  observation,  and  the  captain  judg'd  himself  so  near 
our  port,  Falmouth,  that,  if  we  made  a  good  run  in  the 
night,  we  might  be  off  the  mouth  of  that  harbor  in  the 
morning,  and  by  running  in  the  night  might  escape  the 
notice  of  the  enemy's  privateers,  who  often  crus'd  near  the 
entrance  of  the  channel.  Accordingly,  all  the  sail  was  set 
that  we  could  possibly  make,  and  the  wind  being  very  fresh 
and  fair,  we  went  right  before  it,  and  made  great  way. 
The  captain,  after  his  observation,  shap'd  his  course,  as  he 
thought,  so  as  to  pass  wide  of  the  Scilly  Isles ;  but  it  seems 
there  is  sometimes  a  strong  indraught  setting  up  St.  George's 
Channel,  which  deceives  seamen  and  caused  the  loss  of  Sir 
Cloudesley  Shovel's  squadron.  This  indraught  v/as  prol 
the  cause  of  what  happened  to  us. 


HIS   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  165 

We  liad  a  watchman  plac'd  in  the  bow,  to  whom  they 
often  called,  ''Look  well  out  before  there"  and  he  as  often 
ansv/ered,  "Ay  ay;"  but  perhaps  had  his  eyes  shut,  and  was 
half  asleep  at  the  time,  they  sometimes  answering,  as  is 
said,  mechanically;  for  he  did  not  see  a  light  just  before 
us,  which  had  been  hid  by  the  studdingsails  from  the  man  at 
the  helrn,  and  from  the  rest  of  the  watch,  but  by  an  accidental 
yaw  of  the  ship  was  discover'd,  and  occasion'd  a  great 
alarm,  we  being  very  near  it,  the  light  appearing  to  me  as 
big  as  a  cart-wheel.  It  was  midnight,  and  our  captain  fast 
asleep;  but  Captain  Kennedy,  jumping  upon  deck,  and  see- 
ing the  danger,  ordered  the  ship  to  wear  round,  all  sails 
standing;  an  operation  dangerous  to  the  masts,  but  it 
carried  us  clear,  and  we  escaped  shipwreck,  for  we  were 
running  right  upon  the  rocks  on  which  the  light-house 
was  erected.  This  deliverance  im-pressed  me  strongly  with 
the  utility  of  light-houses,  and  made  me  resolve  to  encourage 
the  building  more  of  them  in  America,  if  I  should  live  to 
return  there. 

In  the  morning  it  was  found  by  the  soundings,  etc.,  that 
V7e  were  near  our  port,  but  a  thick  fog  hid  the  land  from 
our  sight.  About  nine  o'clock  the  fog  began  to  rise,  and 
seem'd  to  be  lifted  up  from  the  water  like  the  curtain  at  a 
play-house,  discovering  underneath,  the  town  of  Falmouth, 
the  vessels  in  its  harbor,  and  the  fields  that  surrounded  it. 
This  was  a  most  pleasing  spectacle  to  those  who  had  been 
so  long  without  any  other  prospects  than  the  uniform  view 
of  a  vacant  ocean,  and  it  gave  us  the  more  pleasure  as  we 
were  now  free  from  the  anxieties  which  the  state  of  war 
occasion'd. 

I  set  out  imm.ediately,  with  my  son,  for  London,  and  we 
only  stopt  a  little  by  the  way  to  view  Stonehenge  on  Salis- 
bury Plain,  and  Lord  Pembroke's  house  and  gardens,  with 
his  very  curious  antiquities  at  Wilton.  We  arrived  in 
London  the  27th  of  July,  1757.^* 

^s  Here  terminates  tlie  Autobiograpliy,  as  published  by  Wm.  Temple 
Franklin  and  his  successors.  What  follows  was  written  in  the  last  year 
of  Dr.  Franklin's  life,  and  was  first  printed  (in  English)  in  Mr.  Bigelow's 
edition  of  i868.T=rED. 


S  SOON  as  I  was  settled  in  a  lodging  Mr.  Charles  had 
provided  for  me,  I  vv^ent  to  visit  Dr.  Fotliergill,  to 
whom  I  was  strongly  recommended,  and  whose  coun- 
sel respecting  my  proceedings  I  was  advis'd  to  obtain.  He 
was  against  an  immediate  complaint  to  government,  and 
thought  the  proprietaries  should  first  be  personally  appli'd 
to,  who  might  possibly  be  induc'd  by  the  interposition  and 
persuasion  of  some  private  friends,  to  accommodate  matters 
amicably.  I  then  waited  on  my  old  friend  and  correspondent, 
Mr.  Peter  CoUinson,  who  told  me  that  John  H^nbury,  the 
great  Virginia  merchant,  had  requested  to  be  informed  when 
I  should  arrive,  that  he  might  carry  me  to  Lord  Granville's, 
who  was  then  President  of  the  Council  and  wished  to  see 
me  as  soon  as  possible.  I  agreed  to  go  with  him  the  next 
morning.  Accordingly  Mr.  Hanbury  called  for  me  and  took 
me  in  his  carriage  to  that  nobleman's,  who  receiv'd  me  with 
great  civility;  and  after  some  questions  respecting  the  pres- 
ent state  of  affairs  in  America  and  discourse  thereupon,  he 
said  to  me :  "  You  Americans  have  wrong  ideas  of  the  nature 
of  your  constitution;  you  contend  that  the  king's  instruc- 
tions to  his  governors  are  not  laws,  and  think  yourselves  at 
liberty  to  regard  or  disregard  them  at  your  own  discretion. 
But  those  instructions  are  not  like  the  pocket  instructions 
given  to  a  minister  going  abroad,  for  regulating  his  conduct 
in  some  trifling  point  of  ceremony.  They  are  first  drawn  up 
by  judges  learned  in  the  laws;  they  are  then  considered, 
debated,  and  perhaps  am.ended  in  Council,  after  which  they 
are  signed  by  the  king.  They  are  then,  so  far  as  they  relate 
to  you,  the  law  of  the  land,  for  the  king  is  the  Legislator 
OF  THE  Colonies.'"'  I  told  his  lordship  this  was  new  doc- 
trine to  me.  I  had  always  understood  from  our  charters 
that  our  laws  were  to  be  miade  by  our  Assemblies,  to  be  pre- 
sented indeed  to  the  king  for  his  royal  assent,  but  that  being 

168 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  167 

once  given  the  king  could  not  repeal  or  alter  them.  And  as 
the  Assemblies  cculd  not  make  permanent  laws  without 
his  assent,  so  neither  could  he  make  a  law  for  them  without 
theirs.  He  assur'd  me  I  was  totally  mnstaken.  I  did  not 
think  so,  however,  and  his  lordship's  conversation  having 
a  little  alarm'd  me  as  to  w'hat  might  be  the  sentiments  of 
the  court  concerning  us,  I  wrote  it  down  as  soon  as  I 
return'd  to  m.y  lodgings.  I  recollected  that  about  20  years 
before,  a  clause  in  a  bill  brought  into  Parliament  by  the 
ministry  had  propos'd  to  make  the  king's  instructions  laws 
in  the  colonies,  but  the  clause  v/as  thrown  out  by  the  Com- 
mons, for  which  we  adored  themi  as  our  friends  and  friends 
of  liberty,  till  by  their  conduct  towards  us  in  1765  it  seem'd 
that  they  had  refus'd  that  point  of  sovereignty  to  the  king 
only  that  they  might  reserve  it  for  them.selves. 

After  some  days,  Dr.  Fothergill  having  spoken  to  the 
proprietaries,  they  agreed  to  a  meeting  with  m.e  at  Mr.  T. 
Penn's  house  in  Spring  Garden.  The  conversation  at  first 
consisted  of  mutual  declarations  of  disposition  to  reasonable 
accommodations,  but  I  suppose  each  party  had  its  own  ideas 
of  what  should  be  m.eant  by  reasonable.  We  then  went  into 
consideration  of  our  several  points  of  complaint,  which  I 
enumerated.  The  proprietaries  justify'd  their  conduct  as 
well  as  they  could,  and  I  the  Assembly's.  We  now  appeared 
very  wide,  and  so  far  from  each  other  in  our  opinions  as  to 
discourage  ail  hope  of  agreement.  However,  it  was  con- 
cluded that  I  should  give  them  the  heads  of  our  complaints 
in  writing,  and  they  promis'd  then  to  consider  them.  I  did 
so  soon  after,  but  they  put  the  paper  into  the  hands  of  their 
solicitor,  Ferdinand  John  Paris,  Vv^ho  managed  for  them  all 
their  law  business  in  their  great  suit  with  the  neighbouring 
proprietary  of  Maryland,  Lord  BaltimiOre,  which  had  subsisted 
70  years,  and  wrote  for  them  all  their  papers  and  messages 
in  their  dispute  with  the  A^ssem.bly.  He  was  a  proud,  angry 
man,  and  as  I  had  occasionally  in  the  answers  of  the  As- 
sembly treated  his  papers  with  some  severity^,  they  being 
really  weak  in  point  of  argument  and  haughty  in  expression, 
he  had  conceived  a  mortal  enmity  to  m.e,  which  discovering 
itself  whenever  \yq  met,  I  declin'd  the  proprietary's  pro- 
posal that  he  and  I  should  discuss  the  heads  of  complaint 


168  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

between  our  two  selves,  and  refus'd  treating  with  any  one 
but  them.  They  then  by  his  advice  put  the  paper  into  the 
hands  of  the  Attorney  and  Solicitor-General  for  their  opinion 
and  counsel  upon  it,  where  it  lay  unanswered  a  year  wanting 
eight  days,  during  which  time  I  made  frequent  demands 
of  an  answer  from  the  proprietaries,  but  without  obtain- 
ing any  otlier  than  that  they  had  not  yet  received  the  opinion 
of  the  Attorney  and  Solicitor-General.  What  it  was  when 
they  dki  receive  it  I  never  learnt,  for  they  did  not  communi- 
cate it  to  me,  but  sent  a  long  message  to  the  Assembly 
drawn  and  signed  by  Paris,  reciting  my  paper,  complaining 
of  its  want  of  formality,  as  a  rudeness  on  my  part,  and 
giving  a  flimsy  justification  of  their  conduct,  adding  that 
they  should  be  willing  to  accommodate  matters  if  the  As- 
sembly would  send  out  some  person  of  candour  to  treat  with 
them  for  that  purpose,  intimating  thereby  that  I  was  not 
such. 

The  want  of  formality  or  rudeness  was,  probably,  my  not 
having  addressed  the  paper  to  them  with  their  assum'd  titles 
of  True  and  Absolute  Proprietaries  of  the  Province  of  Penn- 
sylvania, which  I  omitted  as  not  thinking  it  necessary  in  a 
paper,  the  intention  of  which  was  only  to  reduce  to  a  cer- 
tainty by  writing,  what  in  conversation  I  had  delivered 
viva  voce. 

But  during  this  delay,  the  Assembly  having  prevailed  with 
Gov'r  Denny  to  pass  an  act  taxing  the  proprietary  estate 
in  common  with  the  estates  of  the  people,  which  was  the 
grand  point  in  dispute,  they  omitted  answering  the  message. 

When  this  act  however  came  over,  the  proprietaries,  coun- 
selled by  Paris,  determined  to  oppose  its  receiving  the  royal 
assent.  Accordingly  they  petition'd  the  king  in  Council,  and 
a  hearing  was  appointed  In  which  two  lawyers  were  em- 
ploy'd  by  them  against  the  act,  and  two  by  me  in  support  of 
'  it.  They  alledg'd  that  the  act  was  intended  to  load  the 
proprietary  estate  in  order  to  spare  those  of  the  people,  and 
that  if  it  were  suffer'd  to  continue  in  force,  and  the  pro- 
prietaries who  were  in  odium  with  the  people,  left  to  their 
mercy  in  proportioning  the  taxes,  they  would  inevitably  be 
ruined.  We  reply'd  that  the  act  had  no  such  intention,  and 
would  have  no  su^ch  effect.    That  the  assessors  were  honest 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  169 

and  discreet  men  under  an  oath  to  assess  fairly  and  equitably, 
and  that  any  advantage  each  of  them  might  expect  in 
lessening  his  own  tax  by  augmenting  that  of  the  proprie- 
taries was  too  trifling  to  induce  them  to  perjure  themselves. 
This  Is  the  purport  of  what  I  remember  as  urged  by  both 
sides,  except  that  we  insisted  strongly  on  the  mischievous 
consequences  that  must  attend  a  repeal,  for  that  the  money, 
£100,000,  being  printed  and  given  to  the  king's  use,  expended 
in  his  service,  and  now  spread  among  the  people,  the  repeal 
would  strike  it  dead  in  their  hands  to  the  ruin  of  many,  and 
the  total  discouragement  of  future  grants,  and  the  selfish- 
ness of  the  proprietors  in  soliciting  such  a  general  catas- 
trophe, merely  from  a  groundless  fear  of  their  estate  being 
taxed  too  highly,  was  insisted  on  in  the  strongest  terms. 
On  this.  Lord  Mansfield,  one  of  the  counsel  rose,  and  beck- 
oning  me  took  me  into  the  clerk's  chamber,  while  the  law- 
yers v/ere  pleading,  and  asked  me  if  I  was  really  of  opinion 
that  no  injury  would  be  done  the  proprietary  estate  in  the 
execution  of  the  act,  I  said  certainly.  "  Then,"  says  he, 
"  you  can  have  little  objection  to  enter  into  an  engagement 
to  assure  that  point."  T  answer'd,  "  None  at  all."  He 
then  call'd  in  Paris,  and  after  some  discourse,  his  lordship's 
proposition  was  accepted  on  both  sides;  a  paper  to  the 
purpose  w^as  drawn  up  by  the  Clerk  of  the  Council,  which 
I  sign'd  with  Mr.  Charles,  who  was  also  an  Agent  of  the 
Province  for  their  ordinary  affairs,  when  Lord  Mansfield 
returned  to  the  Council  Chamber,  where  finally  the  law 
was  allowed  to  pass.  Som.e  changes  were  however  recom- 
mended and  we  also  engaged  they  should  be  made  by  a 
subsequent  law,  but  the  Assembly  did  not  think  them  nec- 
essary; for  one  year's  tax  having  been  levied  by  the  act 
before  the  order  of  Council  arrived,  they  appointed  a  com- 
mittee to  examine  the  proceedings  of  the  assessors,  and  on 
this  committee  they  put  several  particular  friends  of  the 
proprietaries.  After  a  full  enquiry,  they  unanimously  sign'd 
a  report  that  they  fotmd  the  tax  had  been  asse^'d  with 
perfect  equity. 

The  Assembly  looked  into  my  entering  into  the  first  part 
of  the  engagement,  as  an  essential  service  to  the  Province, 
since  it  secured  th^e  credit  of  the  paper  money  then  spread 


170  BENJAMIN   FRANKLIN 

over  all  the  cotintry.  They  gave  me  their  thanks  in  form 
when  I  return'd.  But  the  proprietaries  were  enraged  at 
Governor  Denny  for  having  pass'd  the  act,  and  turn'd  him 
out  with  threats  of  suing  him  for  breach  of  instructions 
which  he  had  given  bond  to  observe.  He,  however,  having 
done  it  at  the  instance  of  the  General,  and  for  His  Majesty's 
service,  and  having  some  powerful  interest  at  court,  despis'd 
the  threats  and  they  were  never  put  in  execution.  .  ,  . 
lUnfinishedJ* 


CHIEF  EVENTS  IN  FRANKLIN'S  LIFE 

[Ending,  as  it  does,  idUJi  the  year  1757,  the  autohiogra'pliy 
leaves  imiiortant  facts  unrecorded.  It  has  seemed  advisable, 
therefore,  to  detail  the  chief  events  in  Franklin's  life,  from  the 
beginning,  in  the  folloicing  list: 

1706  He  is  born,  in  Boston,  and  baptized  in  the  Old  South 
Church. 

1714    -^t  the  age  of  eight,  enters  the  GrammMr  School. 

1716  Becomes  his  fathefs  assistant  in  the  toAlotD-chandlery 
business. 

1718    Apprenticed  to  his  brother  James,  printer. 

1721  Writes  ballads  and  peddles  them,  in  printed  form,  in  the 
streets;  contributes,  anonymously,  to  the  "New  England 
Courant,"  and  temporarily  edits  that  paper;  becomes  a 
free-thinker,  and  a  vegetarian. 

1723  Breaks  his  indenture  and  removes  to  Philadelphia;  obtains 
employment  in  Keimer's  printing-office;  abandons  vege- 
tarianism,. 

172'f.  Is  persuaded  by  Governor  Keith  to  establish  himself  inde- 
pendently, and  goes  to  London  to  buy  type;  tvorks  at  Ms 
trade  there,  and  publishes  ''Dissertation  on  Liberty  and 
Necessity,  Pleasure  and  Pain." 

1726  Returns   to  Philadelphia;  after  serving  as  clerk  in  a  dry- 

goods  store,  becomes  manager  of  Keimer's  printing-house. 

1727  Founds  the  Junto,  or  "Leathern  Apron"  Club. 

1728  With  Hugh  Meredith,  opens  a  printing-office. 

1729  Becomes  proprietor  and  editor  of   the   "Pennsylvania   Ga- 

zette"; prints,  anonymously ,  "Nature  and  Necessity  of  a 
Paper  Currency" ;  opens  a  stationer's  shop. 

1730  Marries  Deborah  Plead. 

1731  Founds  the  Philadelphia  Library, 

171 


172  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

1732  PuUisJies  the  first  numler  of  "Poor  Richard's  Almanaxf 
under  the  pseudonym  of  "Richard  SaundersJ'  The 
Almanac,  which  continued  for  twenty-five  years  to  con- 
tain his  witty,  worldly'wise  sayings,  played  a  very  large 
part  in  'bringing  together  and  molding  the  American 
character  which  was  at  that  time  made  up  of  so  many 
diverse  and  scattered  types. 

17SS    Begins  to  study  French^  Italian,  Spanish,  and  Latin. 

1786  Chosen  clerk  of  the  General  Assembly;  forms  the  Union 
Fire  Company  of  Philadelphia. 

1737  Elected  to  the  Assembly;  appointed  Deputy  Postmaster' 
General;  plans  a  city  police. 

1742  Invents  the  open,  or  "Franklin,"  stove. 

1743  Proposes  a  plan  for  an  Academy,  which  is  adopted  17.^9 

and  develops  into  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

1744  Estahlishes  the  American  Philosophical  Society. 

1746  Publishes  a  pamphlet,  "Plain  Truth,''  on  the  necessity  for 
disciplined  defense,  and  forms  a  military  company;  he- 
gins  electrical  experiments. 

1748  Sells  out  his  printing  "business;  is  appointed  on  the  Com- 

mission of  the  Peace,  chosen  to  the  Common  Council,  and 
to  the  Assembly. 

1749  Appointed  a  Commissioner  to  trade  toith  the  Indians, 

1751  Aids  in  founding  a  hospital. 

1752  Essperiments  with  a  kite  and  discovers  that  lightning  is  aft 

electrical  discharge. 

1753  Awarded  the  Copley  medal  for  this  discovery,  and  elected 

a  member  of  the  Royal  Society;  receives  the  degree  of 
M.A.  from  Yale  and  Harvard.  Appointed  joint  Post- 
master-General. 

1754  Appointed  one  of  the  Commissioners  from  Pennsylvania  to 

the  Colonial  Congress  at  Albany;  proposes  a  plan  for  the 
union  of  the  colonies. 

1755  Pledges  his  personal  property  in  order  that  supplies  ma'^ 

"be  raised  for  Braddock's  army ;  obtains  a  grant  from  the 
Assembly  in  aid  of  the  Crown  Point  expedition ;  carries 
through  a  bill  establishing  a  voluntary  militia;  is  ap- 
pointed Colonel,  and  takes  the  field. 


HIS  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  173 

nSl  Introduces  a  till  in  the  Assembly  for  paving  the  streets  of 
Philadelphia;  publishes  his  famous  "Way  to  WealtW ; 
goes  to  England  to  plead  the  cause  of  the  Assembly 
against  the  Proprietaries ;  remains  as  agent  for  Pennsyl- 
vania; enjoys  the  friendship  of  the  scientific  and  literar'if 
men  of  the  kingdom. 

[HERE  THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  BREAKS  OFF] 

11Q0  Secures  from  the  Privy  Council,  by  a  compromise,  a  deci' 
sion  obliging  the  Proprietary  estates  to  contribute  to  the 
public  revenue. 

1762    Receives  the  degree  of  D.  C.  L.  from  Oxford;  returns   to 
America. 

1163  MaJces  a  five  months'  tour  of  the  northern  colonies  for  the 
purpose  of  inspecting  the  post-offices. 

116J^  Defeated  by  the  Penn  faction  for  reelection  to  the  Assem' 
bly;  sent  to  England  as  agent  for  Pennsylvania. 

1165  Endeavors  to  prevent  the  passage  of  the  Stamp  Ad. 

1166  Examined  before  the  House  of  Commons  relative  to  the  pas- 

sage of  the  Stamp  Act;  appointed  agent  of  Massachusetts, 
New  Jersey,  and  Georgia;  visits  Oottingen  University. 

1161     Travels  in  France  a/nd  is  presented  at  court. 

1169    Procures  a  telescope  for  Harvard  College. 

1112    Elected  Associi  Etranger  of  the  French  Academy. 

mil.  Dismissed  from  the  office  of  Postmaster-Oeneral;  influences 
Thomas  Paine  to  emigrate  to  America. 

1115  Returns  to  America;  chosen  a  delegate  to  the  Second  Con- 

tinental Congress;  placed  on  the  comm.ittee  of  secret 
correspondence;  appointed  one  of  the  commissioners  to 
secure  the  cooperation  of  Canada. 

1116  Placed  on  the  committee  to  draft  a  Declaration  of  Inde- 

pendence; chosen  president  of  the  Cotistitutional  Com- 
mittee of  Pennsylvania;  sent  to  France  as  agent  of  the 
colonies. 

2118  Concludes  treaties  of  defensive  alliance,  and  of  amity  and 
commerce;  is.  received  at  court. 

1719    Appointed  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  France. 

1180    Appoints  Paul  Jones  commander  of  the  "Alliance." 


174  BENJAMIN    FRANKLIN 

1782    Signs  the  'preliminary  articles  of  peace. 

1788    Signs  the  definite  treaty  of  peace. 

1785    Returns  to  America;  is  chosen  President  of  Pennsylvania; 
reelected  1786. 

1787  Reelected  President;  sent  as  delegate  to  the  convention  for 

framing  a  Federal  Cons tit'iU ion. 

1788  Retires  frora  public  life. 

1790    April  17,  dies.     His   grave  is  in  the  churchyard  at  Fifth 
and  Arch  streets,  Philadelphia.  Editor.] 


THE  JOURNAL  OF 


INTRODUCTORY  NOTE  \ 

John  Woolman  isjas  horn  at  Northampton,  N.  J.,  in  1720, 
and  died  at  York,  England,  in  1772.  He  was  the  child  of  Quaker 
parents,  and  from  kis  youth  was  a  zealous  member  of  the  So- 
ciety of  Friends.  His  ''Journal,"  pvJhllshed  posthumously  in  1774, 
sufEciently  describes  his  way  of  life  and  the  spirit  in  which  he 
did  his  work;  but  his  extreme  hufnility  prevents  him  from  mak- 
ing clear  the  importance  of  the  part  he  played  in  the  movement 
against  slaveholding  among  the  Quakers. 

During  the  earlier  years  of  their  settlement  in  America,  the 
Friends  took  part  in  the  traffic  in  slaves  with  apparently  a^s  little 
hesitation  as  their  fellow  colonists;  hut  in  1671  George  Fox,  visits 
ing  the  Barbados,  zvas  struck  hy  the  inconsistency  of  slave- 
holding  with  the  religious  principles  of  his  Society.  His  protests, 
along  with  those  of  others,  led  to  the  growth  of  an  agitation^ 
which  spread  from  section  to  section.  In  1742,  Woolman,  then 
a  young  clerk  in  the  employment  of  a  storekeeper  in  New  JeYsey, 
was  asked  to  make  out  a  hill  of  sale  for  a  negro  woman;  and  the 
scruples  which  then  occurred  to  him  were  the  beginning  of  a  life- 
long activity  against  the  traffic.  Shortly  afterward  he  began  his 
laborious  foot-journeys, pleading  everywhere  with  his  co-religion- 
ist'S,  and  inspiring  others  to  take  up  the  crusade.  The  result  of 
the  agitation  was  that  the  various  Yearly  Meetings  one  by  one 
decided  that  emancipation  was  a  religious  duty;  and  within 
twenty  years  after  Woolman^s  death  the  practise  of  slavery  had 
ceased  in  the  Society  of  Friends.  But  Ms  influence  did  not  stop 
there,  for  no  small  pa^t  of  the  enthtisiasm  of  the  general  emanci- 
pation movement  is  traceable  to  Ms  labors. 

His  own  words  in  this  "Jounml,''  of  an  extraordinary  simpUcity 
and  charm,  are  the  best  expression  of  a  personality  which  in  its 
ardor,  purity  of  motive,  hreadih  of  sympathy,  and  dear  spiritual 
insight,  gives  Woolman  a  place  among  the  uncanonised  smnts  of 
America. 


THE 

JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

(172O-I772) 


CHAPTER  I 
1720- 1742 

His  Birth  and  Parentage- — Some  Account  of  the  Operations  of 
Divine  Grace  on  hi-s  Mind  in  his  Youth — His  first  Appearance 
in  the  Ministry — And  his  Considerations,  while  Young,  on  the 
Keeping  of  Slaves. 

I  HAVE  often  felt  a  motion  of  love  to  leave  some  hints 
in  v/riting  of  my  experience  of  the  goodness  of  God, 
and  now,  in  the  thirty-sixth  year  of  my  age,  I  begin 
this  work. 

I  was  born  in  Northampton,  in  Burlington  County,  West 
Jersey,  in  the  year  1720.  Before  I  was  seven  years  old  I 
began  to  be  acquainted  with  the  operations  of  Divine  love. 
Through  the  care  of  my  parent:s,  I  was  taught  to  read  nearly 
as  soon  as  I  was  capable  of  it ;  and  as  I  went  from  school  one 
day,  I  remember  tliat  while  my  companions  were  playing  by 
the  way,  I  went  forward  out  of  sight,  and,  sittitig  down,  I 
read  the  twenty-second  cha,pter  of  Revelation :  "  He  showed 
me  a  pure  river  of  water  of  life,  clear  as  crystal,  proceeding 
out  of  the  throne  of  God  and  of  th«  Lamb,  &c."  In  reading  it, 
my  mind  was  drawn  to  seek  after  th&t  pure  habitation  which 
t  then  believed  God  had  prepared  for  his  servants.  The 
place  where  I  sat,  and  the  sweetness  that  attended  my  mind, 
remain  fresh  in  my  memory.  This,  and  the  like  gracious 
visitations,  had  su€h  an  effect  upon  me  that  when  boys  used 
Ul  language  it  troubled  me;  and,  through  the  continued 
mercies  of  God,  I  was  preserved  from  that  evil. 

177 


178  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

The  pious  instructions  of  my  parents  were  often  fresh  ifl 
my  mind,  when  I  happened  to  be  among  wicked  childre^, 
and  were  of  use  to  me.  Having  a  large  family  of  childreji, 
they  used  frequently,  on  first-days,  after  meeting,  to  set  ns 
one  after  another  to  read  the  Holy  Scriptures,  or  some 
religious  books,  the  rest  sitting  by  without  much  conversa- 
tion; I  have  since  often  thought  it  was  a  good  practice, 
From  what  I  had  read  and  heard,  I  believed  there  had  been, 
in  past  ages,  people  who  walked  in  uprightness  before  God 
in  a  degree  exceeding  any  that  I  knew  or  heard  of  now 
living:  and  the  apprehension  of  there  being  less  steadiness 
and  firmness  amongst  people  in,  the  present  age  often 
troubled  me  while  I  was  a  child. 

I  may  here  mention  a  remarkable  circumstance  that 
occurred  in  my  childhood.  On  going  to  a  neighbor's  house, 
I  saw  on  the  v^^ay  a  robin  sitting  on  her  nest,  and  as  I  came 
near  she  went  off;  but  having  young  ones,  she  fiew  about^ 
and  with  many  cries  expressed  her  concern  for  them.  I 
stood  and  threw  stones  at  her,  and  one  striking  her  she  fell 
down  dead.  At  first  I  was  pleased  with  the  exploit,  but 
after  a  few  minutes  was  seized  with  horror,  at  having,  in  a 
sportive  ^vay,  killed  an  innocent  creature  while  she  was 
careful  for  her  young.  I  beheld  her  lying  dead,  and  thought 
those  young  ones,  for  which  she  was  so  careful,  must  now 
perish  for  v/ant  of  their  dam  to  nourish  them.  After  some 
painful  considerations  on  the  subject,  I  climbed  up  the  tree, 
took  all  the  young  birds,  and  killed  them,  supposing  that 
better  than  to  leave  them  to  pine  away  and  die  miserably. 
In  this  case  I  believed  that  Scripture  proverb  was  fulfilled, 
"  The  tender  mercies  of  the  wicked  are  cruel."  I  then  went 
on  my  errand,  and  for  some  hours  could  think  of  little  else 
but  the  cruelties  I  had  committed,  and  was  much  troubled. 
Thus  He  whose  tender  mercies  are  over  all  his  works  hath 
placed  a  principle  in  the  human  mind,  which  incites  to  exer- 
cise goodness  towards  every  living  creature;  and  this  being 
singly  attended  to,  people  become  tender-hearted  and  sym- 
pathizing; but  when  frequently  and  totally  rejected,  the 
mind  becomes  shut  up  in  a  contrary  disposition. 

About  the  twelfth  year  of  my  age,  my  father  being  abroad, 
my  mother  reproved  me  for  som.e  misconduct,  to  which  I 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMA!^  179 

made  an  undutiful  reply.  The  next  first-day,  as  I  was  with 
my  father  returning  from  meeting,  he  told  m.e  that  he  under- 
stood I  had  behaved  amiss  to  my  mother,  and  advised  me 
to  be  more  careful  in  future.  I  knew  myself  blamable,  and 
in  shame  and  confusion  remained  silent.  Being  thus  awak* 
ened  to  a  sense  of  my  wickedness,  I  felt  remorse  in  my 
mind,  and  on  getting  home  I  retired  and  prayed  to  the  Lord 
to  forgive  me,  and  I  do  not  remember  that  I  ever  after* 
wards  spoke  unhandsomely  to  either  of  my  parents,  however 
foolish  in  some  other  things. 

Having  attained  the  age  of  sixteen  years,  I  began  to  love 
wanton  company  and  though  I  was  preserved  from  profane 
language  or  scandalous  conduct,  yet  I  perceived  a  plant  in 
me  which  produced  much  wild  grapes;  my  merciful  Father 
did  not,  however,  forsake  me  utterly,  but  at  times,  through 
his  grace,  I  was  brought  seriously  to  consider  my  ways ;  and 
the  sight  of  my  backslidings  affected  me  with  sorrow,  yet 
for  want  of  rightly  attending  to  the  reproofs  of  instruction, 
vanity  was  added  to  vanity,  and  repentance  to  repentance. 
Upon  the  whole,  my  mind  became  more  and  more  alienated 
from  the  truth,  and  I  hastened  toward  destruction.  While  I 
meditate  on  the  gulf  towards  which  I  travelled,  and  reflect 
on  my  youthful  disobedience,  for  these  things  I  weep,  mine 
eye  runneth  down  with  water. 

^Advancing  in  age,  the  number  of  my  acquaintance  in- 
creased, and  thereby  my  way  grew  more  difficult.  Though 
I  had  found  comifort  in  reading  the  Holy  Scriptures  and 
thinking  on  heavenly  things,  I  was  now  estranged  therefrom. 
I  knew  I  was  going  from  the  flock  of  Christ  and  had  no  reso- 
lution to  return,  hence  serious  reflections  were  uneasy  to  me, 
and  youthful  vanities  and  diversions  were  my  greatest  pleas- 
ure. In  this  road  I  found  many  like  myself,  and  we  associ- 
ated in  that  which  is  adverse  to  true  friendship. 

In  this  swift  race  it  pleased  God  to  visit  me  with  sickness, 
so  that  I  doubted  of  recovery ;  then  did  darkness,  horror,  and 
amazement  with  full  force  seize  me,  even  when  my  pain  and 
distress  of  body  were  very  great.  I  thought  it  would  have 
been  better  for  me  never  to  have  had  being,  than  to  see  the 
day  which  I  now  saw.  I  was  filled  with  confusion,  and  in 
great  affliction,  both  of  mind  and  body,  I  lay  and  bewailed 


ISO  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

myself.  I  had  not  confidence  to  lift  up  my  cries  to  God/ 
whom  I  had  thus  offended  j  but  in  a  deep  sense  of  my  greaf 
folly  I  was  humbled  before  him.  At  length  that  word  whic|i 
is  as  a  fire  and  a  hammer  broke  and  dissolved  my  rebellious 
heart ;  my  cries  were  put  up  in  contrition ;  and  in  the  multi- 
tude of  his  mercies  I  found  inward  relief,  and  a  close 
engagem.ent  that  if  he  was  pleased  to  restore  my  health  I 
might  walk  humbly  before  him. 

A^fter  my  recovery  this  exercise  remained  with  me  a 
considerable  time,  but  by  degrees  giving  way  to  youthful 
vanities,  and  associating  with  wanton  young  people,  I  lost 
ground.  The  Lord  had  been  very  gracious,  and  spoke  peace 
to  me  in  the  time  of  my  distress,  and  I  now  most  ungrate- 
fully turned  again  to  folly;  at  times  I  felt  sharp  reproof, 
but  I  did  not  get  low  enough  to  cry  for  help.  I  was  not  so 
hardy  as  to  commit  things  scandalous,  but  to  exceed  in 
vanity  and  to  promote  mirth  was  my  chief  study.  Still  I 
retained  a  love  and  esteem  for  pious  people,  and  their  com- 
pany brought  an  awe  upon  m.e.  My  dear  parents  several 
times  admonished  me  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  and  their 
admonition  entered  into  my  heart  and  had  a  good  effect  for 
a  season;  but  not  getting  deep  enough  to  pray  rightly,  the 
tempter,  when  he  came,  found  entrance.  Once  having  spent 
a  part  of  the  day  in  wantonness,  when  I  went  to  bed  at 
night  there  lay  in  a  window  near  my  bed  a  Bible,  which  I 
opened,  and  first  cast  my  eye  on  the  text,  "  We  lie  down  in 
our  shame,  and  our  confusion  cover eth  us."  This  I  knew  to 
be  my  case,  and  meeting  with  so  unexpected  a  reproof  I  was 
somewhat  affected  with  it,  and  went  to  bed  under  remorse 
of  conscience,  which  I  soon  cast  off  again. 

Thus  time  passed  on;  my  heart  was  replenished  with 
mirth  and  wantonness,  while  pleasing  scenes  of  vanity  were 
presented  to  my  imagination,  till  I  attained  the  age  of 
eighteen  years^  near  which  time  I  felt  the  judgments  of  God 
in  my  soul,  like  a  consuming  fire,  and  looking  over  my  past 
life  the  prospect  was  moving.  I  was  often  sad,  and  longed 
to  be  delrvered  from  those  vanities;  then  again  my  heart 
was  strongly  inclined  to  them,  and  there  was  in  me  a  sore 
eonffict.  At  times  I  turned  to  folly,  and  then  again  sorrow 
and  confusion  took  hold  of  me.    In  a  while  I  resolved  totally 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  181 

to  leave  off  some  of  my  vanities,  but  there  was  a  secret 
reserve  in  my  heart  of  the  more  refined  part  of  them,  and  I 
v/as  not  low  enough  to  find  true  peace.  Thus  for  some 
iHonths  I  had  great  troubles;  my  will  was  unsubjected,  which 
rendered  my  labors  fruitlesSo  At  length,  through  the  mer- 
ciful continuance  of  heavenly  ^visitations,  I  was  made  to  bow 
down  in  spirit  before  the  Lord.  One  evening  I  had  spent 
some  time  in  reading  a  pious  author,  and  walking  out  alone 
I  humbly  prayed  to  the  Lord  for  his  help,  that  I  might  be 
delivered  from  all  those  vanities  which  so  ensnared  me. 
Thus  being  brought  low,  he  helped  me,  and  as  I  learned  to 
kar  the  cross  I  felt  refreshment  to  come  from  his  presence, 
but  not  keeping  in  that  strength  which  gave  victory  I  lost 
ground  again,  the  sense  of  which  greatly  affected  me.  I 
sought  deserts  and  lonely  places,  and  there  with  tears  did 
confess  my  sins  to  God  and  humbly  craved  his  help.  And 
I  may  say  with  reverence,  he  was  near  to  me  in  my  troubles, 
and  in  those  times  of  humiliation  opened  my  ear  to  discipline. 
I  was  now  led  to  look  seriously  at  the  means  by  which  I 
was  drawn. from  the  pure  truth,  and  learned  that  if  I  would 
live  such  a  life  as  the  faithful  servants  of  God  lived,  I  must 
not  go  into  company  as  heretofore  in  my  own  will,  but  all 
the  cravings  of  sense  must  be  governed  by  a  Divine  prin- 
ciple. In  times  of  sorrow  and  abasement  these  instructions 
w^ere  sealed  upon  me,  and  I  felt  the  power  of  Christ  prevail 
over  selfish  desires,  so  that  I  was  preserved  in  a  good  degree 
of  steadiness,  and  being  young,  and  believing  at  that  time 
that  a  single  life  was  best  for  me,  I  was  strengthened  to 
keep  from  such  company  as  had  often  been  a  snare  to  me. 

I  kept  steadily  to  m.eetings,  spent  first-day  afternoons 
chiefly  in  reading  the  Scriptures  and  other  good  books,  and 
was  early  convinced  in  my  mind  that  true  religion  consisted 
in  an  inward  life,  wherein  th^  heart  does  love  and  reverence 
God  the  Creator,  and  learns  to  exercise  true  justice  and 
goodness,  not  only  toward  all  meai,  but  also  toward  the  brute 
creatures;  that,  as  the  m.ind  was  moved  by  an  inward  prin- 
cipk  to  love  God  as  an  invisible,  incomprehensible  Being,  so, 
by  the  same  pTineipk,  it  w-as  moved  to  love  him  in  all  his 
manifestations  in  the  visible  world;  that,  as  by  his  breath 
the  flame  of  life  was  kindled  in  all  animal  sensible  creatures, 


182  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

to  say  we  love  God  as  unseen,  and  at  the  same  time  exercise 
cruelty  tov/ard  the  least  creature  moving  by  his  life,  or  by 
life  derived  from  him,  wsls  a  contradiction  in  itself.  I  found 
no  narrowness  respecting-  sects  and  opinions,  but  believed 
that  sincere,  upright-hearted  people,  in  every  society,  who 
truly  love  God,  v/ere  accepted  of  him. 

As  I  lived  under  the  cross,  and  simply  followed  the  open- 
ing of  truth,  my  mind,  from  day  to  day,  v/as  more  enlight- 
ened, my  former  acquaintance  were  left  to  judge  of  me  as 
they  would,  for  I  found  it  safest  for  me  to  live  in  private, 
and  keep  these  things  sealed  up  in  my  own  breast.  "While  I 
silently  ponder  on  that  change  wrought  in  me,  I  find  no 
language  equal  to  convey  to  another  a  clear  idea  of  it.  I 
looked  upon  the  works  of  God  in  this  visible  creation,  and 
an  av/fulness  covered  me.  My  heart  was  tender  and  often 
contrite,  and  universal  love  to  my  fellow-creatures  increased 
in  me.  This  wall  be  understood  by  such  as  have  trodden  in 
the  same  path.  Some  glances  of  real  beauty  may  be  seen  in 
their  faces  who  dwell  in  true  meekness.  There  is  a  harmony 
in  the  sound  of  that  voice  to  which  Divine  love  gives 
utterance,  and  some  appearance  of  right  order  in  their 
temper  and  conduct  whose  passions  are  regulated;  yet  these 
do  not  fully  show  forth  that  inward  life  to  those  who  have 
not  felt  it;  this  white  stone  and  new  name  is  only  known 
rightly  by  such  as  receive  it. 

Now,  though  I  had  been  thus  strengthened  to  bear  the 
cross,  I  still  found  myself  in  great  danger,  having  many 
weaknesses  attending  me,  and  strong  temptations  to  wrestle 
with;  in  the  feeling  whereof  I  frequently  withdrew  into 
private  places,  and  often  with  tears  besought  the  Lord  to 
help  me,  and  his  gracious  ear  was  open  to  my  cry. 

All  this  time  I  lived  with  my  parents,  and  wrought  on  the 
plantation;  and  having  had  schooling  pretty  well  for  a 
planter,  I  used  to  improve  m.yself  in  winter  evenings,  and 
other  leisure  times.  Being  now  in  the  twenty-first  year  of 
my  age,  with  my  father's  consent  I  engaged  with  a  man,  in 
much  business  as  a  shop-keeper  and  baker,  to  tend  shop  and 
keep  books.  At  home  I  had  lived  retired ;  and  now  having 
a  prospect  of  being  much  in  the  way  of  company,  I  felt 
frequent  and  fervent  cries  in  my  heart  to  God,  the  Father 


THE  JOURNx^L  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  183 

of  Mercies,  that  he  would  preserve  me  from  all  taint  and 
corruption;  that,  in  this  more  public  employment,  I  might 
serve  him,  my  gracious  Redeemer,  in  that  humiility  and  self- 
denial  which  I  had  in  a  small  degree  exercised  in  a  more 
private  life* 

The  man  who  employed  me  furnished  a  shop  in  Mount 
Holly,  about  five  miles  from  my  father's  house,  and  six  from 
his  own,  and  there  I  lived  alone  and  tended  his  shop. 
Shortly  after  my  settlement  here  I  v/as  visited  by  several 
young  people,  my  form.er  acquaintance,  who  supposed  that 
vanities  v/ould  be  as  agreeable  to  me  now  as  ever.  At  these 
times  I  cried  to  the  Lord  in  secret  for  v/isdom  and  strength; 
for  I  felt  myself  encompassed  with  difficulties,  and  had  fresh 
occasion  to  bewail  the  follies  of  times  past,  in  contracting  a 
familiarity  with  libertine  people;  and  as  I  had  now  left  my 
father's  house  outwardly,  I  found  my  Heavenly  Father  to 
be  merciful  to  me  beyond  what  I  can  express. 

By  day  I  was  much  amongst  people,  and  had  many  trials 
to  go  through;  but  in  the  evenings  I  was  mostly  alone,  and 
I  may  with  thankfulness  acknowledge,  that  in  those  times 
the  spirit  of  supplication  was  often  poured  upon  me;  under 
which  I  was  frequently  exercised,  and  felt  my  strength 
renewed. 

After  a  while,  my  former  acquaintance  gave  over  expect- 
ing me  as  one  of  their  company,  and  I  began  to  be  known  to 
some  whose  conversation  was  helpful  to  me.  And  now,  as  I 
had  experienced  the  love  of  God,  through  Jesus  Christ,  to 
redeem  me  from  many  pollutions,  and  to  be  a  succor  to  me 
through  a  sea  of  conflicts,  with  which  no  person  was  fully 
acquainted,  and  as  my  heart  was  often  enlarged  in  this 
heavenly  principle,  I  felt  a  tender  compassion  for  the  youth 
who  remained  entangled  in  snares  like  those  which  had 
entangled  me.  This  love  and  tenderness  increased,  and  my 
mind  was  strongly  engaged  for  the  good  of  my  fellow- 
creatures.  I  went  to  meetings  in  an  awful  fram^e  of  mind, 
and  endeavored  to  be  inwardly  acquainted  with  the  language 
of  the  true  Shepherd.  One  day,  being  under  a  strong  exer- 
cise of  spirit,  I  stood  up  and  said  some  words  in  a  meeting; 
but  not  keeping  closre  to  the  Divine  opening,  I  said  more 
than  was  required  of  me.    Being  soon  sensible  of  my  error, 


184  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

I  was  afflicted  in  mind  some  weeks,  without  any  light  Of 
comfort,  even  to  that  degree  that  I  could  not  take  satisfac- 
tion in  anything.  I  remembered  God,  and  was  troubled,  and 
in  the  depth  of  my  distress  he  had  pity  upon  me,  and  sent 
the  Comforter.  I  then  felt  forgiveness  for  my  offence;  my 
mind  became  calm  and  quiet,  and  I  was  truly  thankful  to  my 
gracious  Redeemer  for  his  mercies.  About  six  weeks  after 
this,  feeling  the  spring  of  Divine  love  opened,  and  a  concern 
to  speak,  I  said  a  few  words  in  a  mieeting,  in  which  I  found 
peace.  Being  thus  humbled  and  disciplined  under  the  cross, 
my  understanding  became  more  strengthened  to  distinguish 
the  pure  spirit  which  inwardly  moves  upon  the  heart,  and 
which  taught  me  to  wait  in  silence  sometimes  many  weeks 
together,  until  I  felt  that  rise  which  prepares  the  creature 
to  stand  like  a  trumpet,  through  which  the  Lord  speaks  to 
his  flock. 

From  an  inward  purifying,  and  steadfast  abiding  under  it 
springs  a  lively  operative  desire  for  the  good  of  others.  All 
the  faithful  are  not  called  to  the  public  ministry;  but  who- 
ever afe,  are  called  to  minister  of  that  which  they  have 
tasted  and  handled  spiritually.  The  outivard  modes  of  wor- 
ship are  various;  but  whenever  any  are  true  ministers  of 
Jesus  Christ,  it  is  from  the  operation  of  his  Spirit  upon 
their  hearts,  first  purifying  them,  and  thus  giving  them  a  just 
sense  of  the  conditions  of  others.  This  truth  was  early  fixed 
in  m^y  mind,  and  I  was  taught  to  watch  the  pure  opening, 
and  to  take  heed  lest,  while  I  was  standing  to  speak,  my  own 
v/ill  should  get  uppermost,  and  cause  me  to  utter  words  from 
worldly  wisdom,  and  depart  from  the  channel  of  the  true 
gospel  ministry. 

In  the  management  of  my  outward  affairs,  I  may  say 
wife  thankfulness,  I  found  truth  to  be  my  support;  and  I 
was  respected  in  my  master's  family,  who  cam^  to  live  in 
Mount  Holly  withia  two  years  after  my  going  there. 

In  a  few  months  after  I  came  here,  my  master  bought 
several  Scotchmen  servants,  from  on  board  a  vessel,  and 
brotight  them  to  Mount  Holly  to  sell,  one  of  whom  was 
taken  sick  and  died.  In  the  latter  part  of  his  sickness,  being 
delirious,  he  ttsed  to  curse  and  swear  most  sorrowfully ;  and 
the  next  night  after  his  burial  I  was  left  to  sleep  aloine  in^ 


THE   JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  185 

the  cliamber  where  he  died.  I  perceived  in  me  a  timorons- 
ness;  I  knew,  however,  I  had  not  injured  the  man,  but 
assisted  in  taking  care  of  him  according  to  my  capacity.  I 
was  not  free  to  ask  any  one  on  that  occasion  to  sleep  with 
me.  Nature  was  feeble;  but  every  trial  was  a  fresh  incite- 
ment to  give  myself  up  wholly  to  the  service  of  God,  for  I 
found  no  helper  like  him  in  times  of  trouble. 

About  the  twenty- third  year  of  my  age,  I  had  many  fresh 
and  heavenly  openings,  in  respect  to  the  care  and  provi- 
dence of  the  Almighty  over  his  creatures  in  general,  and 
over  man  as  the  most  noble  amongst  those  which 
are  visible.  And  being  clearly  convinced  in  my  judgment 
that  to  place  my  whole  trust  in  God  was  best  for  me,  I 
felt  renewed  engagements  that  in  all  things  I  might  act  on 
an  inward  principle  of  virtue,  and  pursue  worldly  business 
no  further  than  as  truth  opened  my  way. 

About  the  time  called  Christmas  I  observed  many  people, 
both  in  town  and  from  the  country,  resorting  to  public- 
houses,  and  spending  their  time  in  drinking  and  vain  sports, 
tending  to  corrupt  one  another;  on  which  account  I  was 
much  troubled.  At  one  house  in  particular  there  was  much 
disorder;  and  I  believed  it  was  a  duty  incumbent  on  me 
to  speak  to  the  master  of  that  house.  I  considered  I  was 
young,  and  that  several  elderly  friends  in  town  had  oppor- 
tunity to  see  these  things;  but  though  I  would  gladly  have 
been  excused,  yet  I  could  not  feel  my  mind  clear. 

The  exercise  was  heavy;  and  as  I  was  reading  what 
the  Almighty  said  to  Ezekid,  respecting  his  duty  as  a 
watchman,  the  matter  was  set  home  more  clearly.  With 
prayers  and  tears  I  besought  the  Lord  for  his  assistance, 
and  He,  in  loving-kindness,  gave  me  a  resigned  heart.  At 
a  suitable  opportunity  I  went  to  the  public-house ;  and  seeing 
the  man  amongst  much  company,  I  called  him  aside,  and  in 
the  fear  and  dread  of  the  Almighty  expressed  to  him  what 
rested  on  my  mind.  He  took  it  kindly,  and  afterwards 
showed  more  regard  to  me  than  before.  In  a  few  years  after- 
wards he  died,  middle-aged;  and  I  often  thought  that  had  I 
neglected  my  duty  in  that  case  it  would  hav""  given  me 
great  trouble;  and  I  was  humbly  thankful  to  my  gracious 
Father,  who  had  supported  me  herein. 


186  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

My  employer,  having  a  negro  woman/  sold  her,  and  de- 
sired me  to  write  a  bill  of  sale,  the  man  being  waiting  who 
bought  her.  The  thing  was  sudden;  and  though  I  felt 
aneasy  at  the  thoughts  of  writing  an  instrument  of  slavery 
for  one  of  my  fellow-creatures,  yet  I  remembered  that  I 
was  hired  by  the  year,  that  it  was  my  m.aster  who  directed 
me  to  do  it,  and  that  it  was  an  elderly  man,  a  mem.ber  of  our 
Society,  who  bought  her;  so  through  weakness  I  gave  way, 
and  wrote  it;  but  at  the  executing  of  it  I  was  so  afflicted 
in  my  mind,  that  I  said  before  my  master  and  the  Friend 
that  I  believed  slave-keeping  to  be  a  practice  inconsistent 
with  the  Christian  religion.  This,  in  some  degree,  abated 
my  uneasiness;  yet  as  often  as  I  reflected  seriously  upon 
it  I  thought  I  should  have  been  clearer  if  I  had  desired  to 
be  excused  from  it,  as  a  thing  against  my  conscience;  for 
such  it  w^as.  Some  time  after  this  a  young  man  of  our 
Society  spoke  to  me  to  write  a  conveyance  of  a  slave  to 
him,  he  having  lately  taken  a  negro  into  his  house.  I  told 
him  I  was  not  easy  to  write  it;  for,  though  many  of  our 
meeting  and  in  other  places  kept  slaves,  I  still  believed  the 
practice  was  not  right,  and  desired  to  be  excused  from  the 
writing.  I  spoke  to  him  in  goodwill;  and  he  told  me  that 
keeping  slaves  was  not  altogether  agreeable  to  his  mind; 
but  that  the  slave  being  a  gift  miade  to  his  wife  he  had 
accepted  her. 

^  The  mimber  of  slaves  in  New  Jersey  at  this  time  must  have  been  considerable, 
for  even  as  late  as  ISOO  tJiere  were  over  12,000  of  them.  The  newly  imported  Afri- 
cans were  deposited  at  Perth  Ajuboy.  In  1734  there  were  enottgh  of  them  to  niaks 
a  formidable  though  unsuccessful  insurrection. 


CHAPTER  II 

1743-1748 

His  first  Journey,  on  a  Religious  Visit,  in  East  Jersey — Thoughts 
on  Merchandising,  and  Learning  a  Trade — Second  Journey  into 
Pennsylvania,  Maryland,  Virginia,  and  North  Carolina — Third 
Journey  through  part  of  West  and  East  Jersey — Fourth  Journey 
through  New  York  and  Long  Island,  to  New  England — And  his 
fifth  journey  to  the  Eastern  Shore  of  Maryland,  and  the  Lower 
Counties  on  Delaware. 

Y  esteemed  friend  Abraham  Farrington  being  about 
to  make  a  visit  to  Friends  on  the  eastern  side  of 
this  province,  and  having  no  companion,  he  proposed 
to  me  to  go  v^ith  him ;  and  after  a  conference  with  some 
elderly  Friends  I  agreed  to  go.  We  set  out  on  the  5th  of 
ninth  month,  1743;  had  an  evening  meeting  at  a  tavern 
in  Brunswick,  a  town  in  which  none  of  our  Society  dwelt; 
the  room  was  full,  and  the  people  quiet.  Thence  to  Amboy, 
and  had  an  evening  meeting  in  the  court-house,  to  which 
came  many  people,  amongst  whom  were  several  members 
of  Assembly,  they  being  in  town  on  the  public  affairs  of 
the  province.  In  both  these  meetings  my  ancient  companion 
was  engaged  to  preach  largely  in  the  love  of  the  gospel. 
Thence  we  went  to  Woodbridge,  Rahway,  and  Plainfield, 
and  had  six  or  seven  meetings  in  places  where  Friends' 
meetings  are  not  usually  held,  chiefly  attended  by  Presby- 
terians, and  my  beloved  companion  was  frequently  strength- 
ened to  publish  the  word  of  life  amongst  them.  As  for  me, 
I  was  often  silent  through  the  m.eetings,  and  when  I  spake 
it  was  with  much  care,  that  I  might  speak  only  what  truth 
opened.  My  mind  was  often  tender,  and  I  learned  some 
profitable  lessons.  We  were  out  about  two  weeks. 
Near  this  time,  being  on  some  outward  business  in  whicH 


188  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

several  families  were  concerned,  and  which  was  attended 
with  difficulties,  some  things  relating  thereto  not  being 
clearly  stated,  nor  rightly  understood  by  all,  there  arose 
some  heat  in  the  minds  of  the  parties,  and  one  valuable 
friend  got  off  his  watch.  I  had  a  great  regard  for  him, 
and  felt  a  strong  inclination,  after  matters  were  settled,  to 
speak  to  him  concerning  his  conduct  in  that  case;  but  being 
a  youth,  and  he  far  advanced  in  age  and  experience,  my 
way  appeared  difficult;  after  some  days'  deliberation,  and 
inward  seeking  to  the  Lord  for  assistance,  I  was  made  subject, 
so  that  I  expressed  what  lay  upon  me  in  a  way  which  be- 
came my  youth  and  his  years;  and  though  it  was  a  hard 
task  to  me  it  was  well  taken,  and  I  believe  was  useful  to 
lis  both. 

Having  now  been  several  years  with  my  employer,  and 
he  doing  less  in  merchandise  than  heretofore,  I  was  thought- 
ful about  some  other  way  of  business,  perceiving  merchandise 
to  be  attended  with  much  cumber  in  the  way  of  trading  in 
these  parts. 

My  mind,  through  the  power  of  truth,  was  in  a  good 
degree  weaned  from  the  desire  of  outward  greatness,  and 
I  was  learning  to  be  content  with  real  conveniences,  that  were 
not  costly,  so  that  a  way  of  life  free  from  much  entangle- 
ment appeared  best  for  me,  though  the  income  might  be  small. 
I  had  several  offers  of  business  that  appeared  profitable, 
but  I  did  not  see  my  way  clear  to  accept  of  them,  believing 
they  would  be  attended  with  more  outward  care  and  cumber 
than  was  required  of  me  to  engage  in.  I  saw  that  an  hum^ble 
man,  with  the  blessing  of  the  Lord,  might  live  on  a  little, 
and  that  where  the  heart  was  set  on  greatness,  success  in 
business  did  not  satisfy  the  craving;  but  that  commonly 
with  an  increase  of  wealth  the  desire  of  wealth  increased. 
There  was  a  care  on  my  mind  so  to  pass  my  time  that  nothing 
might  hinder  me  from  the  most  steady  attention  to  the  voice 
of  the  true  Shepherd. 

My  employer,  though  now  a  retailer  of  goods,  VN^as  by 
trade  a  tailor,  and  kept  a  servant-man  at  that  business; 
and  I  began  to  think  about  learning  the  trade,  expecting 
that  if  I  should  settle  I  might  by  this  trade  and  a  little 
retailing  of  goods  get  a  living  in  a  plain  way,  without  the 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  189 

load  of  great  business.  I  mentioned  it  to  my  employer, 
and  we  soon  agreed  on  terms,  and  when  I  had  leisure  from 
the  affairs  of  merchandise  I  worked  with  his  man.  I  be- 
lieved the  hand  of  Providence  pointed  out  this  business  for 
me,  and  I  was  taught  to  be  content  with  it,  though  I  felt 
at  times  a  disposition  that  would  have  sought  for  something 
greater;  but  through  the  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ  I  had 
seen  the  happiness  of  humJIity,  and  there  was  an  earnest 
desire  in  m.e  to  enter  deeply  into  it;  at  times  this  desire 
arose  to  a  degree  of  fervent  supplication,  wherein  my  soul 
was  so  environed  with  heavenly  light  and  consolation  that 
things  were  made  easy  to  me  which  had  been  otherwise. 

After  some  time  my  employer's  wife  died;  she  was  a 
virtuous  woman,  and  generally  beloved  of  her  neighbors. 
Soon  after  this  he  left  shop-keeping,  and  we  parted.  I  then 
wrought  at  my  trade  as  a  tailor ;  carefully  attended  meetings 
for  worship  and  discipline;  and  found  an  enlargement  of 
gospel  love  in  my  mind,  and  therein  a  concern  to  visit 
Friends  in  some  of  the  back  settlements  of  Pennsylvania 
and  Virginia.  Being  thoughtful  about  a  companion,  I  ex- 
pressed it  to  my  beloved  friend,  Isaac  Andrews,  who  told 
me  that  he  had  drawings  to  the  same  places,  and  also  to 
go  through  Maryland,  Virginia,  and  Carolina.  After  a 
considerable  time,  and  several  conferences  with  him,  I  felt 
easy  to  accompany  him  throughout^  if  way  opened  for  it. 
I  opened  the  case  in  our  Monthly  Meeting,  and,  Friends 
expressing  their  unity  therewith,  we  obtained  certificates 
to  travel  as  companions, — he  from  Haddonfield,  and  I  from 
Burlington. 

We  left  our  province  on  the  12th  of  third  month,  1746, 
and  had  several  meetings  in  the  upper  part  of  Chester 
County,  and  near  Lancaster;  in  some  of  which  the  love 
of  Christ  prevailed,  uniting  us  together  in  his  service.  We 
then  crossed  the  river  Susquehanna,  and  had  several  meet- 
ings in  a  new  settlement,  called  the  Red  Lands.  It  is  the 
poorer  sort  of  people  that  commonly  begin  to  improve  remote 
deserts ;  with  a  small  stock  they  have  houses  to  build,  lands 
to  clear  and  fence,  corn  to  raise,  clothes  to  provide,  and 
children  to  educate,  so  that  Friends  who  visit  such  may 
well  sympathize  with  them  in  their  hardships  in  the  wilder- 


190  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAx^ 

ness;  and  though  the  best  entertainment  that  they  can 
give  may  seem  coarse  to  some  who  are  used  to  cities  or 
old  settled  places,  it  becomes  the  disciples  of  Christ  to  be 
therewith  content.  Our  hearts  were  sometimes  enlarged 
in  the  love  of  our  Heavenly  Father  amongst  these  people, 
and  the  sv/eet  influence  of  his  Spirit  supported  us  through 
some  difficulties :  to  him  be  the  praise. 

We  passed  on  to  Manoquacy,  Fairfax,  Hopewell,  and 
Shanando,  and  had  meetings,  some  of  wt|,ich  were  comfort- 
able and  edifying.  From  Shanando,  we  set  off  in  the  after- 
noon for  the  settlements  of  Friends  in  Virginia;  the 
first  night  we,  with  our  guide,  lodged  in  the  woods,  our 
horses  feeding  near  us;  but  he  being  poorly  provided  wath 
a  horse,  and  we  young,  and  having  good  horses,  were  free 
the  next  day  to  part  wdth  him.  In  two  days  after  we 
reached  our  friend  John  Cheagle's,  in  Virginia.  We  took 
the  meetings  in  our  way  through  Virginia ;  were  in  some 
degree  baptized  into  a  feeling  sense  of  the  conditions  of  the 
people,  and  our  exercise  in  general  was  more  painful  in 
these  old  settlements  than  it  had  been  amongst  the  back  in- 
habitants ;  yet  through  the  goodness  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
the  well  of  living  w^aters  was  at  times  opened  to  our 
encouragement,  and  the  refreshment  of  the  sincere-hearted. 
We  went  on  to  Perquimians,  in  North  Carolina;  had  several 
large  meetings,  and  found  some  openness  in  those  parts, 
and  a  hopeful  appearance  amongst  the  young  people.  After- 
wards we  turned  again  to  Virginia,  and  attended  most  of 
the  meetings  which  we  had  not  been  at  before,  laboring 
amongst  Friends  in  the  love  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  ability  was 
given;  thence  went  to  the  mountains,  up  James  River  to 
a  new  settlement,  and  had  several  meetings  amongst  the 
people,  some  of  whom  had  lately  joined  in  membership  with 
our  Society,  In  our  journeying  to  and  fro,  we  found  some 
honest-hearted  Friends,  who  appeared  to  be  concerned  for 
the  cause  of  truth  among  a  backsliding  people. 

From  Virginia  we  crossed  over  the  river  Potomac,  at 
Hoe's  Ferry,  and  m.ade  a  general  visit  to  the  meetings  of 
Friends  on  the  western  shore  of  Maryland,  and  were  at 
their  Quarterly  Meeting.  We  had  some  hard  labor  amongst 
them,  endeavoring  to  discharge  our  duty  honestly  as  vv^ay 


rHE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  191 

opened,  in  the  love  of  truth.  Thence,  taking  sundry  meet- 
ings in  our  way,  v/e  passed  towards  home,  which,  through 
the  favor  of  Divine  Providence,  v/e  reached  the  l6th  of 
sixth  month,  1746;  and  I  may  say,  that  through  the  assist- 
ance of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  mortifies  selfish  desires,  my 
companion  and  I  travelled  in  harmony,  and  parted  in  the 
nearness  of  true  brotherly  love. 

Two  things  were  remarkable  to  me  in  this  journey:  first, 
in  regard  to  my  entertainment.  When  I  ate,  drank,  and 
lodged  free-cost  with  people  who  lived  in  ease  on  the  hard 
labor  of  their  slaves  I  felt  uneasy;  and  as  my  mind  was 
inward  to  the  Lord,  I  found  this  uneasiness  return  upon 
me,  at  times,  through  the  whole  visit.  Where  the  masters 
bore  a  good  share  of  the  burden,  and  lived  frugally,  so  that 
their  servants  were  well  provided  for,  and  their  labor  mod- 
erate, I  felt  more  easy;  but  v/here  they  lived  in  a  costly 
way,  and  laid  heavy  burdens  on  their  slaves,  my  exercise 
Vv'as  often  great,  and  I  frequently  had  conversation  with  them 
in  private  concerning  it.  Secondly,  this  trade  of  importing 
slaves  from  their  native  country  being  much  encouraged 
amongst  them,  and  the  white  people  and  their  children  so 
generally  living  without  much  labor,  was  frequently  the 
subject  of  my  serious  thoughts.  I  saw  in  these  southern 
provinces  so  many  vices  and  corruptions,  increased  by  this 
trade  and  this  way  of  life,  that  it  appeared  to  me  as  a  dark 
gloominess  hanging  over  the  land;  and  though  now  many 
willingly  run  into  it,  yet  in  future  the  consequence  will  be 
grievous  to  posterity.  I  express  it  as  it  hath  appeared  to 
me,  not  once,  nor  twice,  but  as  a  matter- fixed  on  my  mind. 

Soon  after  my  return  home  I  felt  an  increasing  concern 
for  Friends  on  our  seacoast ;  and  on  the  8th  of  eighth  month, 
1746,  I  left  home  with  the  unity  of  Friends,  and  in  com- 
pany with  my  beloved  friend  and  neighbor  Peter  Andrews, 
brother  to  my  com.panion  before  mentioned,  and  visited  them 
in  their  m.eetings  generally  about  Salem,  Cape  May,  Great 
and  Little  Egg  Harbor;  we  had  m.eetings  also  at  Barnagat, 
Manahockin,  and  Mane  Squan,  and  so  to  the  Yearly  Meet- 
ing at  Shrewsbury,  Through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord 
way  was  opened,  and  the  strength  of  Divine  love  was  some- 
times felt  in  cur  assemblies,  to  the  comfort  and  help  of 


192  THE  JOURNAL   OF  JOHN  WGOLMAN 

those  who  were  rightly  concerned  before  him.  We  wefe 
out  twenty-two  days,  and  rode,  by  computation,  three  hun- 
dred and  forty  miles.  At  Shrewsbury  Yearly  Meeting  we 
met  with  our  dear  friends  Michael  Lightfoot  and  Abraham 
Farrington,  who  had  good  service  there. 

The  winter  follov/ing  died  my  eldest  sister  Elizabeth 
Woolman,  of  the  small-pox,  aged  thirty-one  years. 

Of  late  I  found  drawings  in  my  mind  to  visit  Friends  in 
New  England,  and  having  an  opportunity  of  joining  in  com- 
pany with  my  beloved  friend  Peter  Andrews,  we  obtained 
certificates  from  our  Monthly  Meeting,  and  set  forward  on 
the  i6th  of  third  month,  1747.  We  reached  the  Yearly 
Meeting  at  Long  Island,  at  which  were  our  friends,  Samuel 
Nottingham  from  England,  John  Griffith,  Jane  Hoskins,  and 
Elizabeth  Hudson  from  Pennsylvania,  and  Jacob  Andrews 
from  Chesterfield,  several  of  whom  were  favored  in  their 
public  exercise;  and,  through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord,  we 
had  some  edifying  meetings.  After  this  my  companion  and 
I  visited  Friends  on  Long  Island;  and  through  the  mercies 
of  God  we  were  helped  in  the  work. 

Besides  going  to  the  settled  meetings  of  Friends,  we  were 
at  a  general  meeting  at  Setawket,  chiefly  made  up  of  other 
societies;  we  had  also  a  meeting  at  Oyster  Bay  in  a  dwell- 
ing-house, at  which  were  many  people.  At  the  former  there 
was  not  much  said  by  way  of  testimony,  but  it  was,  I  be- 
lieve, a  good  meeting;  at  the  latter,  through  the  springing 
up  of  living  waters,  it  was  a  day  to  be  thankfully  remem- 
bered. Having  visited  the  island,  we  went  over  to  the  main, 
taking  meetings  in  our  way,  to  Oblong,  Nine-partners,  and 
New  Milford.  In  these  back  settlements  we  met  with  sev- 
eral people  who,  through  the  immediate  -vorkings  of  the 
Spirit  of  Christ  on  their  minds,  were  drawn  from  the  vanities 
of  the  world  to  an  inward  acquaintance  with  him.  They 
were  educated  in  the  way  of  the  Presbyterians.  A  consid- 
erable number  of  the  youth,  members  of  that  society,  used 
often  to  spend  their  time  together  in  merriment,  but  some 
of  the  principal  young  men  of  the  company,  bemg  visited 
by  the  powerful  workings  of  the  Spirit  of  Christ,  and  thereby 
led  humbly  to  take  up  his  cross,  could  no  longer  join  in 
those  vanities.    As  these  stood  steadfast  to  tiiat  inward  con- 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  193 

vincement,  they  were  made  a  blessing  to  some  of  their  former 
companions;  so  that  through  the  power  of  truth  several 
were  brought  into  a  close  exercise  concerning  the  eternal 
well-being  of  their  souls.  These  young  people  continued  for 
a  time  to  frequent  their  public  worship;  and,  besides  that, 
had  meetings  of  their  own,  which  meetings  were  awhile 
allowed  by  their  preacher,  who  sometimes  met  with  them; 
but  in  time  their  judgment  in  matters  of  religion  disagreeing 
with  some  of  the  articles  of  the  Presbyterians  their  meetings 
were  disapproved  by  that  society;  and  such  of  them  as 
stood  firm  to  their  dutj,  as  it  was  inwardly  manifested,  had 
many  difficulties  to  go  through.  In  a  while  their  meetings 
were  dropped;  some  of  them  returned  to  the  Presbyterians, 
and  others  joined  to  our  religious  society. 

I  had  conversation  with  some  of  the  latter  to  my  help  and 
edification,  and  believe  several  of  them  are  acquainted  with 
the  nature  of  that  worship  which  is  performed  in  spirit  and 
in  truth.  Amos  Powel,  a  friend  from  Long  Island,  accom- 
panied me  through  Connecticut,  which  is  chiefly  inhabited 
by  Presbyterians,  who  were  generally  civil  to  us.  After  three 
days'  riding,  we  came  amongst  Friends  in  the  colony  of 
Rhode  Island,  and  visited  them  in  and  about  Newport,  Dart- 
mouth, and  generally  in  those  parts;  we  then  went  to 
Boston,  and  proceeded  eastward  as  far  as  Dover.  Not  far 
from  thence  we  met  our  friend  Thomas  Gawthrop,  from 
England,  who  was  then  on  a  visit  to  these  provinces.  From 
Newport  we  sailed  to  Nantucket ;  were  there  nearly  a  week ; 
and  from  thence  came  over  to  Dartmouth.  Having  finished 
our  visit  in  these  parts,  we  crossed  the  Sound  from  New 
London  to  Long  Island,  and  taking  some  meetings  on  the 
island  proceeded  towards  home,  which  we  reached  the  13th 
of  seventh  month,  1747,  having  rode  about  fifteen  hun- 
dred miles,  and  sailed  about  one  hundred  and  fifty. 

In  this  journey,  I  may  say  in  general,  we  were  sometimes 
in  much  weakness,  and  labored  under  discouragements,  and 
at  other  times,  through  the  renewed  manifestations  of  Divine 
love,  we  had  seasons  of  refreshment  wherein  the  power  of 
truth  prevailed.  We  were  taught  by  renewed  experience  to 
labor  for  an  inward  stillness;  at  no  time  to  seek  for  words, 
but  to  live  in  the  spirit  of  truth,  and  utter  that  to  the  people 

?  HC— Vol.  1 


194  THE  JOURNAI.  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

which  truth  opened  in  us.  My  beloved  companion  and  I 
belonged  both  to  one  meeting,  came  forth  in  the  ministry- 
near  the  same  tim.e,  and  were  inwardly  united  in  the  work. 
He  was  about  thirteen  years  older  than  I,  bore  the  heaviest 
burden,  and  was  an  instrument  of  the  greatest  use. 

Finding  a  concern  to  visit  Friends  in  the  lower  counties 
of  Delaware,  and  on  the  eastern  shore  of  Maryland,  and 
having  an  opportunity  to  join  with  my  well-beloved  ancient 
friend,  John  Sykes,  we  obtained  certificates,  and  set  off  the 
7th  of  eighth  month,  1748,  were  at  the  meetings  of  Friends 
in  the  lower  counties,  attended  the  Yearly  Meeting  at  Little 
Creek,  and  made  a  visit  to  most  of  the  meetings  on  the 
eastern  shore,  and  so  home  by  the  way  of  Nottingham.  We 
were  abroad  about  six  weeks,  and  rode,  by  computation, 
about  five  hundred  and  fifty  miles. 

Our  exercise  at  times  was  heavy,  but  through  the  good- 
ness of  the  Lord  we  were  often  refreshed,  and  I  may  say 
by  experience  "he  is  a  stronghold  in  the  day  of  trouble." 
Though  our  Society  in  these  parts  appeared  to  me  to  be  in 
a  declining  condition,  yet  I  believe  the  Lord  hath  a  people 
amongst  them  who  labor  to  serve  him  uprightly,  but  they 
have  many  difficulties  to  encounter. 


CHAPTER  III 
1749-1756 

His  Marriage — The  Death  of  his  Father — His  Journeys  into  the 
tipper  part  of  New  Jersey,  and  afterwards  into  Pennsylvania — ■ 
Considerations  on  keeping  Slaves,  and  Visits  to  the  Families  of 
Friends  at  several  times  and  places — An  Epistle  from  the  Gen- 
eral Meeting — His  journey  to  Long  Island — Considerations  on 
Trading  and  on  the  Use  of  Spirituous  Liquors  and  Costly  Apparel 
— Letter  to  a  Friend. 

k  BOUT  this  time,  believing  it  good  for  me  to  settle, 
l\  and  thinking  seriously  about  a  companion,  my  heart 
-^-^  was  turned  to  the  Lord  with  desires  that  he  would 
give  me  wisdom  to  proceed  therein  agreeably  to  his  will, 
and  he  was  pleased  to  give  me  a  well-inclined  damsel, 
Sarah  Ellis,  to  whom  I  was  married  the  i8th  of  eighth 
month,  1749. 

In  the  fall  of  the  year  1750  died  my  father,  Samuel  Wool- 
m_an,  of  a  fever,  aged  about  sixty  years.  In  his  lifetime  he 
manifested  much  care  for  us  his  children,  that  in  our  youth 
v/e  might  learn  to  fear  the  Lord;  and  often  endeavored  to 
imprint  in  our  minds  the  true  principles  of  virtue,  and  par- 
ticularly to  cherish  in  us  a  spirit  of  tenderness,  not  only 
towards  poor  people,  but  also  towards  all  creatures  of  which 
we  had  the  command. 

After  my  return  from  Carolina  in  1746,  I  made  some 
observations  on  keeping  slaves,  which  some  time  before  his 
decease  I  showed  to  him;  he  perused  the  manuscript,  pro- 
posed a  few  alterations,  and  appeared  well  satisfied  that  I 
found  a  concern  on  that  account.  In  his  last  sickness,  as  I 
was  watching  with  him  one  night,  he  being  so  far  spent  that 
there  was  no  expectation  of  his  recovery,  though  he  had  the 
perfect  use  of  his  understanding,  he  asked  me  concerning 
the  manuscript,  and  whether  I  expected  soon  to  proceed  to 

195 


195  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

taj^e  the  advice  of  friends  in  publishing  it?  After  some 
further  conversation  thereon,  he  said,  "  I  have  all  along  been 
deeply  affected  with  the  oppression  of  the  poor  negroes; 
and  now,  at  last,  my  concern  for  them  is  as  great  as  ever." 

By  his  direction  I  had  written  his  will  in  a  time  of  health, 
and  that  night  he  desired  me  to  read  it  to  him.^  which  I  did ; 
and  he  said  it  was  agreeable  to  his  mind.  He  then  made 
mention  of  his  end,  which  he  believed  was  near;  and  signi- 
fied that  though  he  was  sensible  of  many  imperfections  in 
the  course  of  his  life,  yet  his  experience  of  the  power  of 
truth,  and  of  the  love  and  goodness  of  God  from  time  to 
time,  even  till  now,  was  such  that  he  had  no  doubt  that  on 
leaving  this  life  he  should  enter  into  one  more  happy. 

The  next  day  his  sister  Elizabeth  came  to  see  him,  and 
told  him  of  the  decease  of  their  sisier  Anne,  who  died  a  few 
days  before ;  he  then  said,  "  I  reckon  Sister  Anne  was  free 
to  leave  this  world?"  Elizabeth  said  she  was.  He  then 
said,  "  I  also  am  free  to  leave  it " ;  and  being  in  great  weak- 
ness of  body  said,  "  I  hope  I  shall  shortly  go  to  rest."  He 
continued  in  a  weighty  frame  of  mind,  and  was  sensible  till 
near  the  last. 

Second  of  ninth  month,  175 1. — Feeling  drawings  in  my 
mind  to  visit  Friends  at  the  Great  Meadows,  in  the  upper 
part  of  West  Jersey,  with  the  unity  of  our  Monthly  Meeting, 
I  went  there,  and  had  some  searching  laborious  exercise 
amongst  Friends  in  those  parts,  and  found  inward  peace 
therein. 

Ninth  month,  1753. — In  company  with  miy  well-esteemed 
friend,  John  Sykes,  and  with  the  unity  of  Friends,  I  travelled 
about  two  weeks,  visiting  Friends  in  Buck's  County.  We 
labored  in  the  love  of  the  gospel,  according  to  the  measure 
received;  and  through  the  mercies  of  Him  who  is  strength 
to  the  poor  who  trust  in  him,  we  found  satisfaction  in  our 
visit.  In  the  next  winter,  way  opening  to  visit  Friends' 
families  within  the  compass  of  our  Monthly  Meeting,  partly 
by  the  labors  of  two  Friends  from  Pennsylvania,  I  joined  in 
some  part  of  the  work,  having  had  a  desire  some  time  that 
it  might  go  forward  amongst  us. 

About  this  time,  a  person  at  som.e  distance  lying  sick,  his 
brother  came  to  me  to  write  his  will.    I  knew  he  had  slaves. 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  197 

and,  asking  his  brother,  was  told  he  intended  to  leave  them 
as  slaves  to  his  children.  As  writing  is  a  profitable  employ, 
and  as  offending  sober  people  was  disagreeable  to  my  inclina- 
tion, I  was  straitened  in  my  mind;  but  as  I  looked  to  the 
Lord,  he  inclined  my  heart  to  his  testimony.  I  told  the  man 
that  I  believed  the  practice  of  continuing  slavery  to  this 
people  was  not  right,  and  that  I  had  a  scruple  in  my  mind 
against  doing  writings  of  that  kind;  that  though  many  in 
our  Society  kept  them  as  slaves,  still  I  was  not  easy  to  be 
concerned  in  it,  and  desired  to  be  excused  from  going  to 
write  the  will.  I  spake  to  him  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  and 
he  made  no  reply  to  what  I  said,  but  went  away;  he  also 
had  some  concerns  in  the  practice,  and  I  thought  he  was 
displeased  with  me.  In  this  case  I  had  fresh  confirmation 
that  acting  contrary  to  present  outward  interest,  from  a 
motive  of  Divine  love  and  in  regard  to  truth  and  righteous- 
ness, and  thereby  incurring  the  resentments  of  people,  opens 
the  way  to  a  treasure  better  than  silver,  and  to  a  friendship 
exceeding  the  friendship  of  men. 

The  manuscript  before  mentioned  having  laid  by  me 
several  years,  the  publication  of  it  rested  weightily  upon  me, 
and  this  year  I  offered  it  to  the  revisal  of  my  friends,  who, 
having  examined  and  made  som.e  small  alterations  in  it, 
directed  a  number  of  copies  thereof  to  be  published  and  dis- 
persed amongst  members  of  our  Society.^ 

In  the  year  1754  I  found  my  mind  drawn  to  join  in  a 
visit  to  Friends'  families  belonging  to  Chesterfield  Monthly 
Meeting,  and  having  the  approbation  of  our  own,  I  went  to 
their  Monthly  meeting  in  order  to  confer  with  Friends,  and 
see  if  way  opened  for  it.  I  had  conference  with  some  of 
their  members,  the  proposal  having  been  opened  before  in 
their  meeting,  and  one  Friend  agreed  to  join  with  me  as  a 
companion  for  a  beginning;  but  when  meeting  was  ended, 
I  felt  great  distress  of  mind,  and  doubted  what  way  to  take, 
or  whether  to  go  home  and  wait  for  greater  clearness.  I 
kept  my  distress  secret,  and  going  with  a  friend  to  his  house, 
my  desires  were  to  the  great  Shepherd  for  his  heavenly 
instruction.  In  the  morning  I  felt  easy  to  proceed  on  the 
visit,  though  very  low  in  my  mind.    As  mine  eye  was  turned 

^Thts  pamphlet  was  published  by  Benjamin  Franklin,  1754, 


198  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

to  the  Lord,  waiting  in  families  in  deep  reverence  before 
him,  he  was  pleased  graciously  to  afford  help,  so  that  we 
had  many  comfortable  opportunities,  and  it  appeared  as  a 
fresh  visitation  to  some  young  people.  I  spent  several  weeks 
this  winter  in  the  service,  part  of  which  time  was  employed 
near  home.  And  again  in  the  following  winter  I  was  several 
weeks  in  the  same  service ;  some  part  of  the  time  at  Shrews- 
bury, in  company  with  my  beloved  friend,  John  Sykes;  and 
I  have  cause  humbly  to  acknowledge  that  through  the  good- 
ness of  the  Lord  our  hearts  were  at  times  enlarged  in  his 
love,  and  strength  was  given  to  go  through  the  trials  which, 
in  the  course  of  our  visit,  attended  us. 

From  a  disagreement  between  the  powers  of  England  and 
France,  it  was  now  a  time  of  trouble  on  this  continent,  and 
an  epistle  to  Friends  went  forth  from  our  general  spring 
meeting,  which  I  thought  good  to  give  a  place  in  this 
Journal. 

An  Epistle  front  our  general  Spring  Meeting  of  ministers  and  elders 
for  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey,  held  at  Philadelphia,  from 
the  2gth  of  the  third  month  to  the  ist  of  the  fourth  monthf 
inclusive,  1755. 

To  Friends  on  the  Continent  of  America  : — 

Dear  Friends, — In  an  humbl-e  sense  of  Divine  goodness, 
and  the  gracious  continuation  of  God's  love  to  his  people, 
we  tenderly  salute  you,  and  are  at  this  time  therein  engaged 
in  mind,  that  all  of  us  who  profess  the  truth,  as  held  forth 
and  published  by  our  worthy  predecessors  in  this  latter  age 
of  the  world,  may  keep  near  to  that  Life  which  is  the  light 
of  men,  and  be  strengthened  to  hold  fast  the  profession  of 
our  faith  without  wavering,  that  our  trust  may  not  be  in 
man,  but  in  the  Lord  alone,  who  ruleth  in  the  army  of 
heaven  and  in  the  kingdoms  of  men,  before  whom  the  earth 
is  "  as  the  dust  of  the  balance,  and  her  inhabitants  as  grass- 
hoppers."    (Isa.  xl.  22.) 

Being  convinced  that  the  gracious  design  of  the  'Almighty 
in  sending  his  Son  into  the  world  was  to  repair  the  breach 
made  by  disobedience,  to  finish  sin  and  transgression,  that 
his  kingdom  might  come,  and  his  will  be  done  on  earth  as  it 
is  in  heaven,  we  have  found  it  to  be  our  duty  to  cease  from 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  199 

those  national  contests  which  are  productive  of  misery  and 
bloodshed,  and  submit  our  cause  to  him,  the  Most  High, 
whose  tender  love  to  his  children  exceeds  the  most  warm 
affections  of  natural  parents,  and  who  hath  promised  to  his 
seed  throughout  the  earth,  as  to  one  individual,  "  I  will 
never  leave  thee,  nor  forsake  thee."  (Heb.  xiii.  5.)  And 
we,  through  the  gracious  dealings  of  the  Lord  our  God,  have 
had  experience  of  that  work  which  is  carried  on,  not  by- 
earthly  might,  "  nor  by  power,  but  by  my  Spirit,  saith  the 
Lord  of  Hosts."  (Zech.  iv.  6.)  By  which  operation  that 
spiritual  kingdom  is  set  up,  which  is  to  subdue  and  break  in 
pieces  all  kingdoms  that  oppose  it,  and  shall  stand  forever. 
In  a  deep  sense  thereof,  and  of  the  safety,  stability,  and 
peace  that  are  in  it,  we  are  desirous  that  all  who  profess  the 
truth  may  be  inwardly  acquainted  with  it,  and  thereby  be 
qualified  to  conduct  ourselves  in  all  parts  of  our  life  as  be- 
comes our  peaceable  profession;  and  v/e  trust  as  there  is  a 
faithful  continuance  to  depend  wholly  upon  the  almighty 
arm,  from  one  generation  to  another,  the  peaceable  kingdom 
will  gradually  be  extended  "  from  sea  to  sea,  and  from  the 
river  to  the  ends  of  the  earth"  (Zech.  ix.  10),  to  the  com- 
pletion of  those  prophecies  already  begun,  that  "  nation  shall 
not  lift  up  a  sword  against  nation,  nor  learn  war  any 
more."     (Isa.  ii.  4.    Micah  iv.  3.) 

And,  dearly  beloved  friends,  seeing  that  we  have  these 
promises,  and  believe  that  Go<i  is  beginning  to  fulfil  them, 
let  us  constantly  endeavor  to  have  our  minds  sufficiently 
disentangled  from  the  surfeiting  cares  of  this  life,  and 
redeemed  from  the  love  of  the  world,  that  no  earthly  pos- 
sessions nor  enjoyments  may  bias  our  judgments,  or  turn  us 
from  that  resignation  and  entire  trust  in  God  to  which  his 
blessing  is  most  surely  annexed ;  then  m^ay  we  say,  "  Our 
Redeemer  is  mighty,  he  will  plead  our  cause  for  us."  (Jer. 
1.  34.)  And  if,  for  the  further  promoting  of  his  most  gra- 
cious purposes  in  the  earth,  he  should  give  us  to  taste  of 
that  bitter  cup  of  which  his  faithful  ones  have  often  par- 
taken, O  that  we  might  be  rightly  prepared  to  receive  it ! 

And  novv^,  dear  friends,  with  respect  to  the  commotions 
and  stirrings  of  the  powers  of  the  earth  at  this  time  near 
us,  we  are  desirous  that  none  of  us  may  be  moved  thereat, 


200  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

but  repose  ourselves  in  the  munition  of  that  rock  whicfi 
all  these  shakings  shall  not  move,  even  in  the  knov/ledge  and 
feeling  of  the  eternal  power  of  God,  keeping  us  subjectly 
given  up  to  his  heavenly  will,  and  feeling  it  daily  to  mortify 
that  which  remains  in  any  of  us  which  is  of  this  world; 
for  the  worldly  part  in  any  is  the  changeable  part,  and  that 
is  up  and  down,  full  and  empty,  joyful  and  sorrowful,  as 
things  go  well  or  ill  in  this  world.  For  as  the  truth  is  but 
one,  and  many  are  made  partakers  of  its  spirit,  so  the  world 
is  but  one,  and  many  are  made  partakers  of  the  spirit  of  it; 
and  so  many  as  do  partake  of  it,  so  many  will  be  straitened 
and  perplexed  with  it.  But  they  who  are  single  to  the  truth, 
waiting  daily  to  feel  the  life  and  virtue  of  it  in  their  hearts, 
shall  rejoice  in  the  midst  of  adversity,  and  have  to  ex- 
perience with  the  prophet,  that,  "although  the  fig-tree  shall 
not  blossom,  neither  shall  fruit  be  in  the  vines;  the  labor 
of  the  olive  shall  fail,  and  the  fields  shall  yield  no  meat; 
the  flock  shall  be  cut  off  from  the  fold,  and  there  shall  be 
no  herd  in  the  stalls;  yet  will  they  rejoice  in  the  Lord, 
and  joy  in  the  God  of  their  salvation."     (Hab.  iii.  17,  18.) 

If,  contrary  to  this,  we  profess  the  truth,  and,  not  living 
under  the  power  and  influence  of  it,  are  producing  fruits 
disagreeable  to  the  purity  thereof,  and  trust  to  the  strength 
of  man  to  support  ourselves,  our  confidence  therein  will  be 
vain.  For  he  who  removed  the  hedge  from  his  vineyard, 
and  gave  it  to  be  trodden  under  foot  by  reason  of  the  wild 
grapes  it  produced  (Isa.  v.  6),  remains  unchangeable;  and 
if;  for  the  chastisement  of  wickedness  and  the  further  pro- 
moting of  his  own  glory,  he  doth  arise,  even  to  shake  terribly 
the  earth,  who  then  may  oppose  him,  and  prosper? 

We  remain,  in  the  love  of  the  gospel,  your  friends  and 
brethren. 

(Signed  by  fourteen  Friends.) 

Scrupling  to  do  wTitings  relative  to  keeping  slaves  has 
been  a  means  of  sundry  small  trials  to  me,  in  vv^hich  I  have 
so  evidently  felt  my  own  will  set  aside  that  I  think  it  good 
to  mention  a  few  of  them.  Tradesmen  and  retailers  of  goods, 
who  depend  on  their  business  for  a  living,  are  naturally  in- 
clined to  keep  the  good-will  of  their  customers;  nor  is  it 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  201 

a  pleasant  thing  for  young  men  to  be  under  any  necessity  to 
question  the  judgment  or  honesty  of  elderly  men,  and  more 
especially  of  such  as  have  a  fair  reputation.  Deep-rooted 
customs,  though  wrong,  are  not  easily  altered;  but  it  is  the 
duty  of  all  to  be  firm  in  that  which  they  certainly  know  is 
right  for  them.  A  charitable,  benevolent  man,  well  ac- 
quainted with  a  negro,  may,  I  believe,  under  some  circum- 
stances, keep  him  in  his  family  as  a  servant,  on  no  other 
motives  than  the  negro's  good;  but  man,  as  man,  knows 
not  what  shall  be  after  him,  nor  hath  he  any  assurance  that 
his  children  will  attain  to  that  perfection  in  wisdom  and 
goodness  necessary  rightly  to  exercise  such  power;  hence 
it  is  clear  to  me,  that  I  ought  not  to  be  the  scribe  where  wills 
are  drawn  in  which  some  children  are  made  ales  masters 
over  others  during  life. 

About  this  time  an  ancient  man  of  good  esteem  in  the 
neighborhood  came  to  my  house  to  get  his  will  written.  He 
had  young  negroes,  and  I  asked  him  privately  how  he  pur- 
posed to  dispose  of  them.  He  told  me ;  I  then  said,  "  I 
cannot  write  thy  will  without  breaking  my  own  peace,"  and 
respectfully  gave  him  my  reasons  for  it.  He  signified  that 
he  had  a  choice  that  I  should  have  written  it,  but  as  I  could 
not,  consistently  with  my  conscience,  he  did  not  desire  it, 
and  so  he  got  it  written  by  some  other  person.  A  few  years 
after,  there  being  great  alterations  in  his  family,  he  came 
again  to  get  me  to  write  his  will.  His  negroes  were  yet 
young,  and  his  son,  to  whom  he  intended  to  give  them,  was, 
since  he  first  spoke  to  me,  from  a  libertine  become  a  sober 
young  man,  and  he  supposed  that  I  would  have  been  free  on 
that  account  to  write  it.  We  had  much  friendly  talk  on  the 
subject,  and  then  deferred  it.  A  few  days  after  he  came 
again  and  directed  their  freedom,  and  I  then  wrote  his  will. 

Near  the  time  that  the  last-mentioned  Friend  first  spoke 
to  me,  a  neighbor  received  a  bad  bruise  in  his  body  and  sent 
for  me  to  bleed  him,  which  having  done,  he  desired  me  to 
write  his  will.  I  took  notes,  and  amongst  other  things  he 
told  me  to  which  of  his  children  he  gave  his  young  negro. 
I  considered  the  pain  and  distress  he  was  in,  and  knew  not 
how  it  would  end,  so  I  wrote  his  will,  save  only  that  part 
concerning  his  slave,  and  carrying  it  to  his  bedside  read  it 


202  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

to  him.  I  then  told  him  in  a  friendly  way  that  I  could  no? 
write  any  instruments  by  which  my  fellow-creatures  were 
made  slaves,  without  bringing  trouble  on  my  own  mind.  I 
let  him  know  that  I  charged  nothing  for  what  I  had  done, 
and  desired  to  be  excused  from  doing  the  other  part  in  the 
way  he  proposed.  We  then  had  a  serious  conference  on  the 
subject;  at  length,  he  agreeing  to  set  her  free,  I  finished 
his  will. 

Having  found  drawings  in  my  mind  to  visit  Friends  on 
Long  Island,  after  obtaining  a  certificate  from  our  Monthly 
Meeting,  I  set  off  12th  of  fifth  month,  1756.  When  I  reached 
the  island,  I  lodged  the  first  night  at  the  house  of  my  dear 
friend,  Richard  Hallett.  The  next  day  being  the  first  of 
the  week,  I  was  at  the  meeting  in  New  Town,  in  which  we 
experienced  the  renewed  manifestations  of  the  love  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  the  comfort  of  the  honest-hearted.  I  went  that 
night  to  Flushing,  and  the  next  day  I  and  my  beloved  friend, 
Matthew  Franklin,  crossed  the  ferry  at  White  Stone;  were 
at  three  meetings  on  the  main,  and  then  returned  to  the 
island,  where  I  spent  the  remainder  of  the  week  in  visiting 
meetings.  The  Lord,  I  believe,  hath  a  people  in  those  parts 
who  are  honestly  inclined  to  serve  him;  but  many  I  fear, 
are  too  much  clogged  with  the  things  of  this  life,  and  do 
not  come  forward  bearing  the  cross  in  such  faithfulness  as 
he  calls  for. 

My  mind  was  deeply  engaged  in  this  visit,  both  in  public 
and  private,  and  at  several  places  where  I  was,  on  observ- 
ing that  they  had  slaves,  I  found  myself  under  a  necessity, 
in  a  friendly  way,  to  labor  with  them  on  that  subject;  ex- 
pressing, as  way  opened,  the  inconsistency  of  that  practice 
with  the  purity  of  the  Christian  religion,  and  the  ill  effects 
of  it  manifested  amongst  us. 

The  latter  end  of  the  week  their  Yearly  Meeting  began; 
at  which  were  our  friends,  John  Scarborough,  Jane  Hoskins, 
and  Susannah  Brown,  from  Pennsylvania.  The  public  meet- 
ings were  large,  and  m.easurably  favored  with  Divine  good- 
ness. The  exercise  of  my  mind  at  this  meeting  was  chiefly 
on  account  of  those  who  were  considered  as  the  foremost 
rank  in  the  Society;  and  in  a  meeting  of  ministers  and 
elders  way  opened  for  me  to  express  in  some  measure  what 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  203 

lay  upon  me;  and  when  Friends  were  met  for  transacting 
the  affairs  of  the  church,  having  sat  awhile  silent,  I  felt  a 
weight  on  my  mind,  and  stood  up ;  and  through  the  gracious 
regard  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  strength  was  given  fully  to 
clear  myself  of  a  burden  which  for  some  days  had  been  in- 
creasing upon  me. 

Through  the  humbling  dispensations  of  Divine  Provi- 
dence, men  are  sometimes  fitted  for  his  service.  The  mes- 
sages of  the  prophet  Jeremiah  were  so  disagreeable  to  the 
people,  and  so  adverse  to  the  spirit  they  lived  in,  that  he 
became  the  object  of  their  reproach,  and  in  the  weak- 
ness of  nature  he  thought  of  desisting  from  his  prophetic 
office ;  but  saith  he,  "  His  word  was  in  my  heart  as  a  burn- 
ing fire  shut  up  in  my  bones;  and  I  was  weary  with  for- 
bearing, and  could  not  stay."  I  saw  at  this  time  that  if  I 
was  honest  in  declaring  that  which  truth  opened  in  me,  I 
could  not  please  all  men;  and  I  labored  to  be  content  in  the 
way  of  my  duty,  however  disagreeable  to  my  own  inclination. 
After  this  I  went  homeward,  taking  Woodbridge  and  Plain- 
field  in  my  way,  in  both  which  meetings  the  pure  influence  of 
Divine  love  was  manifested,  in  an  humbling  sense  whereof  I 
went  home.  I  had  been  out  about  twenty-four  days,  and 
rode  about  three  hundred  and  sixteen  miles. 

While  I  was  out  on  this  journey  my  heart  was  mucfi 
affected  with  a  sense  of  the  state  of  the  churches  in  our 
southern  provinces;  and  believing  the  Lord  was  calling  me 
to  some  further  labor  amongst  them,  I  was  bowed  in  rev* 
erence  before  him,  with  fervent  desires  that  I  might  find' 
strength  to  resign  myself  to  his  heavenly  will. 

Until  this  year,  1756,  I  continued  to  retail  goods,  besides 
following  my  trade  as  a  tailor;  about  which  time  I  grew 
uneasy  on  account  of  my  business  growing  too  cumbersome. 
I  had  begun  with  selling  trimmings  for  garments,  and  from 
thence  proceeded  to  sell  cloths  and  linens;  and  at  length, 
having  got  a  considerable  shop  of  goods,  my  trade  Increased 
every  year,  and  the  way  to  large  business  appeared  open, 
but  I  felt  a  stop  in  my  mind. 

Through  the  mercies  of  the  Almighty,  I  had,  in  a  good 
degree,  learned  to  be  content  with  a  plain  way  of  living,  i 
had  but  a  small  family;   and,  on  serious  consideration,  be- 


204  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

lieved  truth  did  not  require  me  to  engage  much  in  cumbering 
affairs.  It  had  been  my  general  practice  to  buy  and  sell 
things  really  useful.  Things  that  served  chiefly  to  please 
the  vain  mind  in  people,  I  was  not  easy  to  trade  in;  seldom 
did  it;  and  whenever  I  did  I  found  it  weaken  me  as  a 
Christian. 

The  increase  of  business  became  my  burden;  for  though 
my  natural  inclination  was  toward  merchandise,  yet  I  be- 
lieved truth  required  me  to  live  more  free  from  outward 
cumbers;  and  there  was  now  a  strife  in  my  mind  between 
the  two.  In  this  exercise  my  prayers  were  put  up  to  the 
Lord,  who  graciously  heard  me,  and  gave  me  a  heart  resigned 
to  his  holy  will.  Then  I  lessened  my  outward  business, 
and,  as  I  had  opportunity,  told  my  customers  of  my  inten- 
tions, that  they  might  consider  what  shop  to  turn  to;  and 
in  a  while  I  wholly  laid  down  merchandise,  and  followed 
my  trade  as  a  tailor  by  myself,  having  no  apprentice.  I  also 
had  a  nursery  of  apple-trees,  in  which  I  employed  some  of 
my  time  in  hoeing,  grafting,  trimming,  and  inoculating.  ^  In 
merchandise  it  is  the  custom  where  I  lived  to  sell  chiefly  on 
credit,  and  poor  people  often  get  in  debt ;  when  payment  is 
expected,  not  having  wherewith  to  pay,  their  creditors  often 
sue  for  it  at  law.  Having  frequently  observed  occurrences 
of  this  kind,  I  found  it  good  for  me  to  advise  poor  people 
to  take  such  goods  as  were  most  useful,  and  not  costly. 

In  the  time  of  trading  I  had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  that 
the  too  liberal  use  of  spirituous  liquors  and  the  custom  of 
wearing  too  costly  apparel  led  some  people  into  great  incon- 
veniences;   and  that  these  two  things   appear  to  be  often 

2  He  seems  to  have  regarded  agriculture  as  the  business  rhost  conducive 
to  moral  and  physical  health.  He  thought  "  if  the  leadings  of  the  Spirit 
were  more  attended  to,  more  people  would  be  engaged  in  the  sweet  employ- 
ment of  husbandry,  where_  labor  is  agreeable  and  healthful."  He  does  not 
condemn  the  honest  acquisition  of  wealth  in  other  business  free  from  oppres- 
sion;_  even  "  merchandising,"  he  thought,  might  be  carried  on  innocently 
and  in  pure  reason.  Christ  does  not  forbid  the  laying  up  of  a  needful 
support  for  family  and  friends;  the  command  is,  "  Lay  not  up  for  your- 
selves treasures  on  earth."  From  his  little  farm  on  the  Rancocas  he 
looked  out  with  a  mingled  feeling  of  wonder  and  sorrow  upon  the  hurry 
and  unrest  of  the  world;  and  especially  was  he  pained  to  see  luxury  and 
extravagance  overgrowing  the  early  plainness  and  simplicity  of  his  own 
religious  society.  He  regarded  the  merely  rich  man  with  unfeigned  pity. 
With  nothing  of  his  scorn,  he  had  all  of  Thoreau's  commiseration,  for  peo- 
ple who  went  about  bowed  down  with  the  weight  of  broad  acres  and  great 
houses  on  their  hacks.— Note  in  edition  published  by  Messrs.  Houghton„ 
Mifflin  <if  Co. 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  205 

connected  with  each  other.  By  not  attending  to  that  use  of 
things  which  is  consistent  with  universal  righteousness, 
there  is  an  increase  of  labor  which  extends  beyond  what  our 
Heavenly  Father  intends  for  us.  And  by  great  labor,  and 
often  of  much  sweating,  there  is  even  among  such  as 
are  not  drunkards  a  craving  of  liquors  to  revive  the 
spirits;  that  partly  by  the  luxurious  drinking  of  some,  and 
partly  by  the  drinking  of  others  (led  to  it  through  immod- 
erate labor),  very  great  quantities  of  rum  are  every  year  ex- 
pended in  our  colonies;  the  greater  part  of  which  we  should 
have  no  need  of,  did  we  steadily  attend  to  pure  wisdom. 

When  men  take  pleasure  in  feeling  their  minds  elevated 
with  strong  drink,  and  so  indulge  their  appetite  as  to  dis- 
order their  understandings,  neglect  their  duty  as  members 
of  a  family  or  civil  society,  and  cast  off  all  regard  to  religion, 
their  case  is  much  to  be  pitied.  And  where  those  whose 
lives  are  for  the  most  part  regular,  and  whose  examples  have 
a  strong  influence  on  the  minds  of  others,  adhere  to  some 
customs  which  powerfully  draw  to  the  use  of  more  strong 
liquor  than  pure  wisdom  allows^  it  hinders  the  spreading  of 
the  spirit  of  meekness,  and  strengthens  the  hands  of  the 
more  excessive  drinkers.    This  is  a  case  to  be  lamented. 

Every  degree  of  luxury  hath  some  connection  with  evil; 
and  if  those  who  profess  to  be  disciples  of  Christ,  and  are 
looked  upon  as  leaders  of  the  people,  have  that  mind  in  them 
which  was  also  in  Christ,  and  so  stand  separate  from  every 
wrong  way,  it  is  a  means  of  help  to  the  weaker.  As  I  have 
sometimes  been  much  spent  in  the  heat  and  have  taken 
spirits  to  revive  me,  I  have  found  by  experience,  that  in  such 
circumstances  the  mind  is  not  so  calm,  nor  so  fitly  disposed 
for  Divine  meditation,  as  when  all  such  extremes  are  avoided. 
I  have  felt  an  increasing  care  to  attend  to  that  Holy  Spirit 
which  sets  right  bounds  to  our  desires,  and  leads  those  who 
faithfully  follow  it  to  apply  all  the  gifts  of  Divine  Provi- 
dence to  the  purposes  for  which  they  were  intended.  Did 
those  who  have  the  care  of  great  estates  attend  with  single- 
ness of  heart  to  this  heavenly  Instructor,  which  so  opens  and 
enlarges  the  mind  as  to  cause  men  to  love  their  neighbors 
as  themselves,  they  would  have  wisdom  given  them  to  manage 
their  concerns,  without  employing  some  people  in  providing 


206  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

luxuries  of  life,  or  others  i^  laboring  too  hard ;  but  for  want 
of  steadily  regarding  this  principle  of  Divine  love,  a  selfish 
spirit  takes  place  in  the  minds  of  people,  which  is  attended 
with  darkness  and  manifold  confusions  in  the  world. 

Though  trading  in  things  useful  is  an  honest  employ,  yet 
through  the  great  number  of  superfluities  which  are  bought 
and  sold,  and  through  the  corruption  of  the  times,  they  who 
apply  to  merchandise  for  a  living  have  great  need  to  be  well 
experienced  in  that  precept  which  the  Prophet  Jeremiah  laid 
down  for  his  scribe:  "Seekest  thou  great  things  for  thy- 
self? seek  them  not." 

In  the  winter  this  year  I  was  engaged  with  friends  in  visit- 
ing families,  and  through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  we  often- 
times experienced  his  heart-tendering  presence  amongst  us. 

A  Copy  of  a  Letter  written  to  a  Friend 

"In  this,  thy  late  affliction,  I  have  found  a  deep  fellow- 
feeling  with  thee,  and  have  had  a  secret  hope  throughout 
that  it  might  please  the  Father  of  Mercies  to  raise  thee  up 
and  sanctify  thy  troubles  to  thee ;  that  thou  being  more  fully 
acquainted  with  that  way  which  the  world  esteems  foolish, 
mayst  feel  the  clothing  of  Divine  fortitude,  and  be  strength- 
ened to  resist  that  spirit  which  leads  from  the  simplicity  of 
the  everlasting  truth. 

"We  may  see  ourselves  crippled  and  halting,  and  from,  a 
strong  bias  to  things  pleasant  and  easy  find  an  impossibility 
to  advance  forward;  but  things  impossible  with  men  are 
possible  with  God;  and  our  wills  being  made  subject  to  his, 
all  temptations  are  surmountable. 

"This  work  of  subjecting  the  will  is  compared  to  the  min- 
eral in  the  furnace,  which,  through  fervent  heat,  is  reduced 
from  its  first  principle :  '  He  refines  them  as  silver  is  refined ; 
he  shall  sit  as  a  refiner  and  purifier  of  silver.'  By  these  com- 
parisons we  are  instructed  in  the  necessity  of  the  melting 
operation  of  the  hand  of  God  upon  us,  to  prepare  our  hearts 
truly  to  adore  him,  and  manifest  that  adoration  by  inwardly 
turning  away  from  that  spirit,  in  all  its  workings,  which  is 
not  of  him.  To  forward  this  v7ork  the  all-wise  God  is  some- 
times pleased,  through  outward  distress,  to  bring  us  near  the 
9-ates  of  death;    that  life  being  painful  and  afflicting,  and 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  207 

tlie  prospect  of  eternity  opened  before  us,  all  earthly  bonds 
may  be  loosened,  and  the  mind  prepared  for  that  deep  and 
sacred  instruction  which  otherwise  would  not  be  received. 
If  kind  parents  love  their  children  and  delight  in  their  hap- 
piness, then  he  who  is  perfect  goodness  in  sending  abroad 
m_ortal  contagions  doth  assuredly  direct  their  use.  Are  the 
righteous  removed  by  it?  their  change  is  happy.  Are  the 
wicked  taken  away  in  their  wickedness?  the  Almighty  is 
clear.  Do  we  pass  through  with  anguish  and  great  bitter- 
ness, and  yet  recover  ?  He  intends  that  we  should  be  purged 
from  dross,  and  our  ear  opened  to  discipline. 

"  And  now,  as  thou  art  again  restored,  after  thy  sore 
affliction  and  doubts  of  recovery,  forget  not  Him  who  hath 
helped  thee,  but  in  hum.ble  gratitude  hold  fast  his  instruc- 
tions, and  thereby  shun  those  by-paths  which  lead  from  the 
firm  foundation.  I  am  sensible  of  that  variety  of  company 
to  which  one  in  thy  business  must  be  exposed;  I  have  pain- 
fully felt  the  force  of  conversation  proceeding  from  men 
deeply  rooted  in  an  earthly  mind,  and  can  sympathize  with 
others  in  such  conflicts,  because  much  weakness  still  attends 
me. 

"  I  find  that  to  be  a  fool  as  to  worldly  wisdom,  and  to 
commit  my  cause  to  God,  not  fearing  to  offend  men,  who 
take  offence  at  the  simplicity  of  truth,  is  the  only  way  to 
remain  unmoved  at  the  sentiments  of  others. 

"  The  fear  of  man  brings  a  snare.  By  halting  in  our  duty, 
and  giving  back  in  the  time  of  trial,  our  hands  grow  weaker, 
our  spirits  get  mingled  with  the  people,  our  ears  grow  dull 
as  to  hearing  the  language  of  the  true  Shepherd,  so  that  when 
we  look  at  the  way  of  the  righteous,  it  seems  as  though  it 
was  not  for  us  to  follow  them. 

"A  love  clothes  my  miind  while  I  write,  which  is  superior 
to  all  expression ;  and  I  find  m}^  heart  open  to  encourage  to 
a  holy  em-ulation,  to  advance  forward  in  Christian  firmness. 
Deep  hum-ility  is  a  strong  bulwark,  and  as  we  enter  into  it 
we  find  safety  and  true  exaltation.  The  foolishness  of  God 
is  wiser  than  man,  and  the  weakness  of  God  is  stronger 
than  man.  Being  unclothed  of  our  own  wisdom,  and  know- 
ing the  abasement  of  the  creature,  we  find  that  power  to 
arise  which  gives  health  and  vigor  to  us." 


CHAPTER  IV 

1757,  1758 

Visit  to  the  Families  of  Friends  at  Burlington — -Journey  to  Penn- 
sylvania, Maryland,  Virginia,  and  North  Carolina — Considera- 
tions on  the  State  of  Friends  there,  and  the  Exercise  he  was 
tmder  in  Travelling  among  those  so  generally  concerned  in  keep- 
ing Slaves,  with  some  Observations  on  this  Subject — Epistle  to 
Friends  at  New  Garden  and  Crane  Creek — Thoughts  on  the 
Neglect  of  a  Religious  Care  in  the  Education  of  the  Negroes. 

[HIRTEENTH  fifth  month,  1757.— Being  in  good 
health,  and  abroad  with  Friends  visiting  families,  I 
lodged  at  a  Friend's  house  in  Burlington.  Going  to 
bed  about  the  time  usual  with  me,  I  awoke  in  the  night,  and 
my  meditations,  as  I  lay,  were  on  the  goodness  and  mercy 
of  the  Lord,  in  a  sense  whereof  my  heart  was  contrited. 
After  this  I  went  to  sleep  again;  in  a  short  time  I  awoke; 
it  was  yet  dark,  and  no  appearance  of  day  or  moonshine, 
and  as  I  opened  mine  eyes  I  saw  a  light  in  my  chamber,  at 
the  apparent  distance  of  five  feet,  about  nine  inches  in 
diameter,  of  a  clear,  easy  brightness,  and  near  its  centre  the 
most  radiant.  As  I  lay  still  looking  upon  it  without  any  sur- 
prise, words  were  spoken  to  my  inward  ear,  which  filled  my 
whole  inward  man.  They  were  not  the  effect  of  thought, 
nor  any  conclusion  in  relation  to  the  appearance,  but  as  the 
language  of  the  Holy  One  spoken  in  my  mind.  The  words 
were.  Certain  Evidence  of  Divine  Truth.  They  were 
again  repeated  exactly  in  the  same  manner,  and  then  the 
light  disappeared. 

Feeling  the  exercise  In  relation  to  a  visit  to  the  Southern 
Provinces  to  increase  upon  me,  I  acquainted  our  Monthly 
Meeting  therewith,  and  obtained  their  certificate.  Expecting 
to  go  alone,  one  of  my  brothers  who  lived  in  Philadelphia, 
having  some  business  in  North  Carolina,  proposed  going 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  209 

:with  me  part  of  the  way;  but  as  he  had  a  view  of  some 
outward  affairs,  to  accept  of  him  as  a  companion  was  some 
difficulty  with  me,  whereupon  I  had  conversation  with  him 
at  sundry  times.  At  length  feeling  easy  in  my  mind,  I  had 
conversation  with  several  elderly  Friends  of  Philadelphia  on 
the  subject,  and  he  obtaining  a  certificate  suitable  to  the 
occasion,  we  set  off  in  the  fifth  month,  1757.  Coming  to  Not- 
tingham week-day  meeting,  we  lodged  at  John  Churchman's, 
where  I  met  with  our  friend,  Benjamin  Buffington,  from  New 
England,  who  was  returning  from  a  visit  to  the  Southern 
Provinces.  Thence  we  crossed  the  river  Susquehanna,  and 
lodged  at  William  Cox's  in  Maryland. 

Soon  after  I  entered  this  province  a  deep  and  painful  exer- 
cise came  upon  me,  which  I  often  had  som.e  feeling  of,  since 
my  mind  was  drawn  toward  these  parts,  and  with  which  I 
had  acquainted  my  brother  before  we  agreed  to  join  as  com- 
panions. As  the  people  in  this  and  the  Southern  Provinces 
live  much  on  the  labor  of  slaves,  many  of  whom  are  used 
hardly,  my  concern  was  that  I  might  attend  with  singleness 
of  heart  to  the  voice  of  the  true  Shepherd  and  be  so  sup- 
ported as  to  remain  unmoved  at  the  faces  of  men. 

As  it  is  common  for  Friends  on  such  a  visit  to  have  enter- 
tainment free  of  cost,  a  difficulty  arose  in  my  mind  with 
respect  to  saving  my  money  by  kindness  received  from  what 
appeared  to  me  to  be  the  gain  of  oppression.  Receiving  a 
gift,  considered  as  a  gift,  brings  the  receiver  under  obliga- 
tions to  the  benefactor,  and  has  a  natural  tendency  to  draw 
the  obliged  into  a  party  with  the  giver.  To  prevent  difficul- 
ties of  this  kind,  and  to  preserve  the  minds  of  judges  from 
any  bias,  was  that  Divine  prohibition :  "Thou  shalt  not 
receive  any  gift;  for  a  gift  bindeth  the  wise,  and  perverteth 
the  words  of  the  righteous."  (Exod.  xxiii.  8.)  As  the  dis- 
ciples w^ere  sent  forth  without  any  provision  for  their  jour- 
ney, and  our  Lord  said  the  workman  is  worthy  of  his  meat, 
their  labor  in  the  gospel  was  considered  as  a  reward  for  their 
entertainment,  and  therefore  not  received  as  a  gift;  yet,  in 
regard  to  my  present  journey,  I  could  not  see  my  way  clear 
in  that  respect.  The  difference  appeared  thus :  the  entertain- 
ment the  disciples  met  with  was  from  them  whose  hearts  God 
had  opened  to  receive  them,  from  a  love  to  them  and  the 


210  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

truth  they  published;  but  we,  considered  as  members  of  the 
same  religious  society,  look  upon  it  as  a  piece  of  civility  to 
receive  each  other  in  such  visits;  and  such  receptions,  at 
times,  is  partly  in  regard  to  reputation,  and  not  from  an 
inward  unity  of  heart  and  spirit.  Conduct  is  more  convinc- 
ing than  language,  and  where  people,  by  their  actions,  mani- 
fest that  the  slave-trade  is  not  so  disagreeable  to  their  prin- 
ciples but  that  it  m.ay  be  encouraged,  there  is  not  a  sound 
uniting  with  some  Friends  who  visit  them. 

The  prospect  of  so  weighty  a  work,  and  of  being  so  distin- 
guished from  many  whom  I  esteemed  before  myself,  brought 
me  very  low,  and  such  were  the  conflicts  of  my  soul  that  I 
had  a  near  sympathy  with  the  Prophet,  in  the  time  of  his 
weakness,  when  he  said :  "  If  thou  deal  thus  with  me,  kill 
me,  I  pray  thee,  if  I  have  found  favor  in  thy  sight."  (Num. 
xi.  15.)  But  I  soon  saw  that  this  proceeded  from  the  want 
of  a  full  resignation  to  the  Divine  will.  Many  were  the 
afflictions  which  attended  me,  and  in  great  abasem.ent,  with 
many  tears,  my  cries  were  to  the  Almighty  for  his  gracious 
and  fatherly  assistance,  and  after  a  time  of  deep  trial  I  was 
favored  to  understand  the  state  mentioned  by  the  Psalmist 
more  clearly  than  ever  I  had  done  before ;  to  wit:  " My  soul 
is  even  as  a  weaned  child."  (Psalm  cxxxi.  2.)  Being  thus 
helped  to  sink  down  into  resignation,  I  felt  a  deliverance 
from  that  tempest  in  which  I  had  been  sorely  exercised,  and 
in  calmness  of  mind  went  forward,  trusting  that  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  as  I  faithfully  attended  to  him,  would  be  a 
counsellor  to  me  in  all  difficulties,  and  that  by  His  strength  I 
should  be  enabled  even  to  leave  money  with  the  members 
of  society  where  I  had  entertainment,  when  I  found  that 
omitting  it  would  obstruct  that  work  to  which  I  believed  He 
had  called  me.  As  I  copy  this  after  my  return,  I  may  here 
add,  that  oftentimes  I  did  so  under  a  sense  of  duty.  The  way 
in  which  I  did  it  was  thus :  when  I  expected  soon  to  leave  a 
Friend's  house  where  I  had  entertainment,  if  I  believed  that 
I  should  not  keep  clear  from  the  gain  of  oppression  without 
leaving  money,  I  spoke  to  one  of  the  heads  of  the  family 
privately,  and  desired  them  to  accept  of  those  pieces  of 
silver,  and  give  them  to  such  of  their  negroes  as  they  be- 
lieved v/ould  make  the  best  use  of  them ;   and  at  other  times 


THE  JOURNAL  OF   JOHN   WOOLMAN  211 

I  gave  them  to  the  negroes  myself,  as  the  way  looked 
clearest  to  me.  Before  I  came  out,  I  had  provided  a  large 
number  of  small  pieces  for  this  purpose  and  thus  offering 
them  to  some  who  appeared  to  be  wealthy  people  was  a  trial 
both  to  me  and  them.  But  the  fear  of  the  Lord  so  covered 
m_e  at  times  that  my  way  was  made  easier  than  I  expected; 
and  few,  if  any,  manifested  any  resentm.ent  at  the  offer,  and 
most  of  them,  after  some  conversation,  accepted  of  them. 

Ninth  of  fifth  month. — A  Friend  at  whose  house  we  break- 
fasted setting  us  a  little  on  our  way,  I  had  conversation  v/ith 
him,  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  concerning  his  slaves,  in  v/hich 
my  heart  was  tender;  I  used  much  plainness  of  speech  with 
him,  and  he  appeared  to  take  it  kindly.  We  pursued  our 
journey  without  appointing  meetings,  being  pressed  In  my 
mind  to  be  at  the  Yearly  Meeting  in  Virginia.  In  my  trav- 
elling on  the  road,  I  often  felt  a  cry  rise  from,  the  centre  of 
my  mind,  thus :  "  O  Lord,  I  am  a  stranger  on  the  earth,  hide 
not  thy  face  from  me."  On  the  nth,  we  crossed  the  rivers 
Patowmack  and  Rapahannock,  and  lodged  at  Port  Royal.  On 
the  way  we  had  the  company  of  a  colonel  of  the  militia,  who 
appeared  to  be  a  thoughtful  man.  I  took  occasion  to  remark 
on  the  difference  in  general  betwixt  a  people  used  to  labor 
moderately  for  their  living,  training  up  their  children  in 
frugality  and  business,  and  those  who  live  on  the  labor  of 
slaves;  the  former,  in  my  view,  being  the  most  happy  life. 
He  concurred  in  the  remark,  and  mentioned  the  trouble 
arising  from  the  tmtoward,  slothful  disposition  of  the  ne- 
groes, adding  that  one  of  our  laborers  would  do  as  m.uch  in 
a  day  as  two  of  their  slaves.  I  replied,  that  free  m.en,  whose 
minds  were  properly  on  their  business,  found  a  satisfaction 
in  improving,  cultivating,  and  providing  for  their  families; 
but  negroes,  laboring  to  support  others  who  claim  them  as 
their  property,  and  expecting  nothing  but  slavery  during  life, 
had  not  the  like  inducement  to  be  industrious. 

After  some  further  conversation  I  said,  that  men  having 
power  too  often  misapplied  it;  that  though  we  m.ade  slaves 
of  the  negroes,  and  the  Turks  made  slaves  of  the  Christians, 
I  believed  that  liberty  was  the  natural  right  of  all  men 
equally.  This  he  did  not  deny,  but  said  the  lives  of  the 
negroes  were  so  wretched  in  their  own  country  that  many 


212  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

of  them  lived  better  here  than  there.  I  replied,  "  There  is 
great  odds  in  regard  to  us  on  what  principle  we  act " ;  and 
so  the  conversation  on  that  subject  ended.  I  may  here  add 
that  another  person,  some  time  afterwards,  mentioned  the 
wretchedness  of  the  negroes,  occasioned  by  their  intestine 
wars,  as  an  argument  in  favor  of  our  fetching  them  away 
for  slaves.  To  which  I  replied,  if  compassion  for  the  Afri- 
cans, on  account  of  their  domestic  troubles,  was  the  real 
motive  of  our  purchasing  them,  that  spirit  of  tenderness  being 
attended  to,  would  incite  us  to  use  them  kindly  that,  as 
strangers  brought  out  of  affliction,  their  lives  might  be  happy 
among  us.  And  as  they  are  human  creatures,  whose  souls 
are  as  precious  as  ours,  and  who  may  receive  the  same  help 
and  comfort  from  the  Holy  Scriptures  as  we  do,  we  could 
not  omit  suitable  endeavors  to  instruct  them  therein;  but 
that  while  we  manifest  by  our  conduct  that  our  views  in 
purchasing  them  are  to  advance  ourselves,  and  while  our 
buying  captives  taken  in  war  animates  those  parties  to  push 
on  the  war,  and  increase  desolation  amongst  them,  to  say 
they  live  unhappily  in  Africa  is  far  from  being  an  argument 
in  our  favor.  I  further  said,  the  present  circumstances  of 
these  provinces  to  me  appear  difficult;  the  slaves  look  like  a 
burdensome  stone  to  such  as  burden  themselves  with  them; 
and  that  if  the  white  people  retain  a  resolution  to  prefer  their 
outward  prospects  of  gain  to  all  other  considerations,  and 
do  not  act  conscientiously  toward  them  as  fellow-creatures^ 
I  believe  that  burden  will  grow  heavier  and  heavier,  until 
times  change  in  a  way  disagreeable  to  us.  The  person  ap- 
peared very  serious,  and  owned  that  in  considering  their 
condition  and  the  manner  of  their  treatment  in  these  prov- 
inces he  had  sometimes  thought  it  might  be  just  in  the 
Almighty  so  to  order  it. 

Having  travelled  through  Maryland,  we  came  amongst 
Friends  at  Cedar  Creek  in  Virginia,  on  the  12th;  and  the 
next  day  rode,  in  company  with  several  of  them,  a  day's 
journey  to  Camp  Creek.  As  I  was  riding  along  in  the 
morning,  my  mind  was  deeply  affected  in  a  sense  I  had  of 
the  need  of  Divine  aid  to  support  me  in  the  various  difficul- 
ties which  attended  m.e,  and  in  uncommon  distress  of  mind  I 
cried  in  secret  to  the  Most  High,  "  O  Lord  be  merciful,  I 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  213 

beseech  thee,  to  thy  poor  afflicted  creature!"  After  some 
time,  I  felt  inward  relief,  and,  soon  after,  a  Friend  in  com- 
pany began  to  talk  in  support  of  the  slave-trade,  and  said 
the  negroes  were  understood  to  be  the  offspring  of  Cain, 
their  blackness  being  the  mark  which  God  set  upon  him 
after  he  murdered  Abel  his  brother ;  that  it  was  the  design  of 
Providence  they  should  be  slaves,  as  a  condition  proper  to  the 
race  of  so  wicked  a  man  as  Cain  was.  Then  another  spake  in 
support  of  what  had  been  said.  To  all  which  I  replied  in 
substance  as  follows :  that  Noah  and  his  family  were  all 
who  survived  the  flood,  according  to  Scripture ;  and  as  Noah 
was  of  Seth's  race,  the  family  of  Cain  was  wholly  destroyed. 
One  of  them  said  that  after  the  flood  Ham  went  to  the  land 
of  Nod  and  took  a  wife;  that  Nod  was  a  land  far  distant, 
inhabited  by  Cain's  race,  and  that  the  flood  did  not  reach  it; 
and  as  Ham  was  sentenced  to  be  a  servant  of  servants  to 
his  brethren,  these  two  families,  being  thus  joined,  were 
undoubtedly  fit  only  for  slaves.  I  replied,  the  flood  was  a 
judgment  upon  the  world  for  their  abominations,  and  it  was 
granted  that  Cain's  stock  was  the  most  wicked,  and  there- 
fore unreasonable  to  suppose  that  they  were  spared.  As  to 
Ham's  going  to  the  land  of  Nod  for  a  wife,  no  time  being 
fixed.  Nod  might  be  inhabited  by  some  of  Noah's  family 
before  Ham  married  a  second  time;  moreover  the  text  saith 
"That  all  flesh  died  that  moved  upon  the  earth."  (Gen.  vii. 
21.)  I  further  reminded  them  how  the  prophets  repeatedly 
declare  "  that  the  son  shall  not  suffer  for  the  iniquity  of  the 
father,  but  every  one  be  answerable  for  his  own  sins."  I 
was  troubled  to  perceive  the  darkness  of  their  imaginations, 
and  in  some  pressure  of  spirit  said,  "  The  love  of  ease  and 
gain  are  the  motives  in  general  of  keeping  slaves,  and  men 
are  wont  to  take  hold  of  weak  arguments  to  support  a  cause 
fvhich  is  unreasonable.  I  have  no  interest  on  either  side, 
save  only  the  interest  which  I  desire  to  have  in  the  truth. 
I  believe  liberty  is  their  right,  and  as  I  see  they  are  not 
only  deprived  of  it,  but  treated  in  other  respects  with  inhu- 
manity in  many  places,  I  believe  He  who  is  a  refuge  for 
the  oppressed  will,  in  his  own  time,  plead  their  cause,  and 
happy  will  it  be  for  such  as  walk  in  uprightness  before  him." 
And  thus  our  conversation  ended. 


214  THE  JOURNAL  OF   JOHN  WOOLMAN 

Fourteenth  of  fifth  month. — I  was  this  day  at  Camp  Creek 
Monthly  Meeting,  and  then  rode  to  the  mountains  up  James 
!River,  and  had  a  meeting  at  a  Friend's  house,  in  both  which 
I  felt  sorrow  of  heart,  and  my  tears  were  poured  out  before 
the  Lord,  who  was  pleased  to  afford  a  degree  of  strength 
by  which  way  was  opened  to  clear  my  mind  amongst  Friends 
in  those  places.  From  thence  I  went  to  Fork  Creek,  and  so 
to  Cedar  Creek  again,  at  which  place  I  now  had  a  meeting. 
Here  I  found  a  tender  seed,  and  as  I  was  preserved  in  the 
ministry  to  keep  low  with  the  truth,  the  same  truth  in  their 
hearts  answered  it,  that  it  was  a  time  of  mutual  refreshment 
from  the  presence  of  the  Lord.  I  lodged  at  James  Stand- 
ley's,  father  of  William  Standley,  one  of  the  young  men  who 
suffered  imprisonment  at  Winchester  last  summer  on  account 
of  their  testimony  against  fighting,  and  I  had  some  satisfac- 
tory conversation  with  him  concerning  it.  Hence  I  went  to 
the  Swamp  Meeting,  and  to  Wayanoke  Meeting,  and  then 
crossed  James  River,  and  lodged  near  Burleigh.  From  the 
tim^e  of  m.y  entering  Maryland  I  have  been  much  under  sor- 
row, which  of  late  so  increased  upon  me  that  my  mind  was 
almost  overwhelmed,  and  I  may  say  with  the  Psalmist,  "  In 
my  distress  I  called  upon  the  Lord,  and  cried  to  my  God," 
who,  in  infinite  goodness,  looked  upon  my  affliction,  and  in 
my  private  retirement  sent  the  Comforter  for  my  relief, 
for  which  I  humbly  bless  His  holy  name. 

The  sense  I  had  of  the  state  of  the  churches  brought  a 
weight  of  distress  upon  me.  The  gold  to  me  appeared  dim, 
and  the  fine  gold  changed,  and  though  this  is  the  case  too' 
j^enerally,  yet  the  sense  of  it  in  these  parts  hath  in  a  par- 
ticular manner  borne  heavy  upon  m.e.  It  appeared  to  me  that 
through  the  prevailing  of  the  spirit  of  this  world  the  minds 
of  many  were  brought  to  an  inward  desolation,  and  instead 
of  the  spirit  of  meekness,  gentleness,  and  heavenly  wisdom, 
which  are  the  necessary  companions  of  the  true  sheep  of 
Christ,  a  spirit  of  fierceness  and  the  love  of  dominion  too 
generally  prevailed.  From  small  beginnings  in  error  great 
buildings  by  degrees  are  raised,  and  from  one  age  to  another 
are  more  and  more  strengthened  by  the  general  concurrence 
of  the  people ;  and  as  men  obtain  reputation  by  their  profes- 
sion of  the  truth,  their  virtues  are  mentioned  as  arguments 


THE  JOURNAL   OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  215 

in  favor  of  general  error;  and  those  of  less  note,  to  justify 
themselves,  say,  such  and  such  good  men  did  the  like.  By 
vv^hat  other  steps  could  the  people  of  Judah  arise  to  that 
height  in  wickedness  as  to  give  just  ground  for  the  Prophet 
Isaiah  to  declare,  in  the  nam.e  of  the  Lord,  *'  that  none  calleth 
for  justice,  nor  any  pleadeth  for  truth"  (Isa.  lix.  4),  or  for 
the  Almighty  to  call  upon  the  great  city  of  Jerusalem  just 
before  the  Babylonish  captivity,  "  If  ye  can  find  a  man,  if 
there  be  any  who  executeth  judgment,  that  seeketh  the 
truth,  and  I  will  pardon  it"?  (Jer.  v.  i.) 

The  prospect  of  a  way  being  open  to  the  same  degeneracy, 
in  some  parts  of  this  newly  settled  land  of  America,  in  respect 
to  our  conduct  towards  the  negroes,  hath  deeply  bowed  my 
mind  in  this  journey,  and  though  briefly  to  relate  how  these 
people  are  treated  is  no  agreeable  work  yet,  after  often 
reading  over  the  notes  I  made  as  I  travelled,  I  find  my  mind 
engaged  to  preserve  them.  Many  of  the  white  people  in 
those  provinces  take  little  or  no  care  of  negro  marriages ;  and 
when  negroes  marry  after  their  own  way,  some  make  so 
little  account  of  those  marriages  that  with  views  of  outward 
interest  they  often  part  men  from  their  wives  by  selling  them 
far  asunder,  which  is  common  when  estates  are  sold  by 
executors  at  vendue.  Many  whose  labor  is  heavy  being  fol- 
lowed at  their  business  in  the  field  by  a  m.an  with  a  whip, 
hired  for  that  purpose,  have  in  common  little  else  allowed 
but  one  peck  of  Indian  corn  and  some  salt,  for  one  week, 
with  a  few  potatoes;  the  potatoes  they  commonly  raise  by 
their  labor  on  the  first  day  of  the  week.  The  correction 
ensuing  on  their  disobedience  to  overseers,  or  slothfulness 
in  business,  is  often  very  severe,  and  sometimes  desperate. 

Men  and  women  have  many  times  scarcely  clothes  suffi- 
cient to  hide  their  nakedness,  and  boys  and  girls  ten  and 
twelve  years  old  are  often  quite  naked  amongst  their  master's 
children.  Some  of  our  Society,  and  some  of  the  society 
called  Newlights,  use  some  endeavors  to  instruct  those  they 
have  in  reading;  but  in  common  this  is  not  only  neglected, 
but  disapproved.  These  are  the  people  by  whose  labor  the 
other  inhabitants  are  in  a  great  measure  supported,  and  many 
of  them  in  the  luxuries  of  life.  These  are  the  people  who 
have  made  no  agreement  to  serve  us,  and  who  have  not  for- 


216  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

feited  their  liberty  that  we  know  of.  These  are  the  souls 
for  whom  Christ  died,  and  for  our  conduct  towards  them 
we  must  answer  before  Him  who  is  no  respecter  of  persons. 
They  who  know  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom 
he  hath  sent,  and  are  thus  acquainted  with  the  merciful, 
benevolent,  gospel  spirit,  will  therein  perceive  that  the 
indignation  of  God  is  kindled  against  oppression  and  cruelty, 
and  in  beholding  the  great  distress  of  so  numerous  a  people 
will  find  cause  for  mourning. 

From  my  lodgings  I  went  to  Burleigh  Meeting,  where  I 
felt  my  mind  drawn  in  a  quiet,  resigned  state.  After  a  long 
silence  I  felt  an  engagement  to  stand  up,  and  through  the 
powerful  operation  of  Divine  love  we  were  favored  with  an 
edifying  meeting.  The  next  meeting  we  had  was  at  Black- 
Water,  and  from  thence  went  to  the  Yearly  Meeting  at  the 
Western  Branch.  When  business  began,  some  queries  were 
introduced  by  some  of  their  members  for  consideration,  and, 
if  approved,  they  were  to  be  answered  hereafter  by  their 
respective  Monthly  Meetings.  They  were  the  Pennsylvania 
queries,  which  had  been  examined  by  a  committee  of  Vir- 
ginia Yearly  Meeting  appointed  the  last  year,  who  made 
some  alterations  in  them,  one  of  which  alterations  was  made 
in  favor  of  a  custom  which  troubled  me.  The  query  was, 
"  Are  there  any  concerned  in  the  importation  of  negroes,  or 
in  buying  them  after  imported  ?  "  which  was  thus  altered, 
*'Are  there  any  concerned  in  the  importation  of  negroes,  or 
buying  them  to  trade  in?"  As  one  query  admitted  with 
unanimity  was,  "  Are  any  concerned  in  buying  or  vending 
goods  unlawfully  imported,  or  prize  goods?"  I  found  my 
mind  engaged  to  say  that  as  we  profess  the  truth,  and  were 
there  assembled  to  support  the  testimony  of  it,  it  was  neces- 
sary for  us  to  dwell  deep  and  act  in  that  wisdom  which  is 
pure,  or  otherwise  we  could  not  prosper.  I  then  mentioned 
their  alteration,  and  referring  to  the  last-mentioned  query, 
added,  that  as  purchasing  any  merchandise  taken  by  the 
sword  was  always  allowed  to  be  inconsistent  with  our  prin- 
ciples, so  negroes  being  captives  of  war,  or  taken  by  stealth, 
it  was  inconsistent  with  our  testimony  to  buy  them;  and 
their  being  our  fellow-creatures,  and  sold  as  slaves,  added 
greatly  to  the  iniquity.    Friends  appeared  attentive  to  what 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  217 

was  said;  some  expressed  a  care  and  concern  about  theii? 
negroes;  none  made  any  objection,  by  way  of  reply  to  what 
I  said,  but  the  query  was  admitted  as  they  had  altered  it. 

As  som.e  of  their  members  have  heretofore  traded  in 
negroes,  as  in  other  merchandise,  this  query  being  admitted 
will  be  one  step  further  than  they  have  hitherto  gone,  and  I 
did  not  see  it  my  duty  to  press  for  an  alteration,  but  felt 
easy  to  leave  it  all  to  Him  who  alone  is  able  to  turn  the 
hearts  of  the  mighty,  and  make  way  for  the  spreading  of 
truth  on  the  earth,  by  means  agreeable  to  his  infinite  wisdom. 
In  regard  to  those  they  already  had,  I  felt  my  mind  engaged 
to  labor  with  them,  and  said  that  as  we  believe  the  Scriptures 
were  given  forth  by  holy  men,  as  they  were  moved  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  many  of  us  know  by  experience  that  they 
are  often  helpful  and  comfortable,  and  believe  ourselves 
bound  in  duty  to  teach  our  children  to  read  them ;  I  believed 
that  if  we  were  divested  of  all  selfish  views,  the  same  good 
spirit  that  gave  them  forth  would  engage  us  to  teach  the 
negroes  to  read,  that  they  might  have  the  benefit  of  them. 
Some  present  manifested  a  concern  to  take  more  care  in  the 
education  of  their  negroes. 

Twenty-ninth  fifth  month. — At  the  house  where  I  lodged 
was  a  meeting  of  ministers  and  elders.  I  found  an  engage- 
ment to  speak  freely  and  plainly  to  them  concerning  their 
slaves ;  mentioning  how  they  as  the  first  rank  in  the  society, 
whose  conduct  in  that  case  was  much  noticed  by  others,  were 
under  the  stronger  obligations  to  look  carefully  to  them- 
selves. Expressing  how  needful  it  was  for  them  in  that  sit- 
uation to  be  thoroughly  divested  of  all  selfish  views;  that, 
living  in  the  pure  truth,  and  acting  conscientiously  towards 
those  people  in  their  education  and  otherwise,  they  might  be 
instrumental  in  helping  forward  a  work  so  exceedingly  neces- 
sary, and  so  much  neglected  amongst  them.  At  the  tvv^elftH 
hour  the  meeting  of  worship  began,  which  was  a  solid 
meeting. 

The  next  day,  about  the  tenth  hour.  Friends  met  to  finish 
their  business,  and  then  the  meeting  for  worship  ensued, 
which  to  me  was  a  laborious  time ;  but  through  the  goodness 
of  the  Lord,  truth,  I  believed,  gained  some  ground,  and  it 
was  a  strengthening  opportunity  to  the  honest-hearted. 


218  THE  JOUKNAL  OF  JOHN   WOOLMAN 

About  this  time  I  wrote  an  epistle  to  Friends  in  the  back 
settlements  of  North  Carolina,  as  follows:— 

To  Friends  at  their  Monthly  Meeting  at  New  Garden  and  Cane 
Creek,  in  North  Carolina: — 

Dear  Friends, — It  having  pleased  the  Lord  to  drav/  me 
forth  on  a  visit  to  some  parts  of  Virginia  and  Carolina,  you 
have  often  been  in  my  mind;  and  though  my  way  is  not 
clear  to  come  in  person  to  visit  you,  yet  I  feel  it  in  my  heart 
to  communicate  a  few  things,  as  they  arise  in  the  love  of 
truthc  First,  my  dear  friends,  dwell  in  humility;  and  take 
heed  that  no  views  of  outward  gain  get  too  deep  hold  of  you, 
that  so  your  eyes  being  single  to  the  Lord,  you  may  be  pre- 
served in  the  way  of  safety.  Where  people  let  loose  their 
minds  after  the  love  of  outward  things,  and  are  more  engaged 
in  pursuing  the  profits  and  seeking  the  friendships  of  this 
world  than  to  be  inv\^ardly  acquainted  with  the  way  of  true 
peace,  they  walk  in  a  vain  shadow,  while  the  true  comfort  of 
life  is  VN^anting.  Their  examples  are  often  hurtful  to  others ; 
and  their  treasures  thus  collected  do  many  timxcs  prove  dan- 
gerous snares  to  their  children. 

But  where  people  are  sincerely  devoted  to  follow  Christ, 
and  dwell  under  the  influence  of  his  Holy  Spirit,  their  sta- 
bility and  firmness,  through  a  Divine  blessing,  is  at  times 
like  dew  on  the  tender  plants  round  about  them,  and  the 
weightiness  of  their  spirits  secretly  works  on  the  minds  of 
others.  In  this  condition,  through  the  spreading  influence 
of  Divine  love,  they  feel  a  care  over  the  flock,  and  way  is 
opened  for  maintaining  good  order  in  the  Society.  And 
though  we  may  meet  with  opposition  from  another  spirit, 
yet,  as  there  is  a  dwelling  in  meekness,  feeling  our  spirits 
subject,  and  moving  only  in  the  gentle,  peaceable  wisdom, 
the  inward  reward  of  quietness  will  be  greater  than  all  our 
difficulties.  Where  the  pure  life  is  kept  to,  and  meetings  of 
discipline  are  held  in  the  authority  of  it,  we  find  by  experi- 
ence that  they  are  comfortable,  and  tend  to  the  health  of 
the  body. 

While  I  write,  the  youth  come  fresh  in  my  way.  Dear 
young  people,  choose  God  for  your  portion;  love  his  truth, 
and  be  not  ashamed  of  it;  choose  for  your  company  such  as 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  219 

serve  him  in  uprightness;  and  shun  as  most  dangerous  the 
conversation  of  those  whose  lives  are  of  an  ill  savor;  for  by 
frequenting  such  company  some  hopeful  young  people  have 
come  to  great  loss,  and  been  drawn  from  less  evils  to  greater, 
to  their  utter  ruin.  In  the  bloom  of  youth  no  ornament  is 
so  lovely  as  that  of  virtue,  nor  any  enjoyments  equal  to 
those  which  v\^e  partake  of  in  fully  resigning  ourselves  to  the 
Divine  will.  These  enjoyments  add  sweetness  to  all  other 
comforts,  and  give  true  satisfaction  in  company  and  con- 
versation, w^here  people  are  mutually  acquainted  with  it ;  and 
as  your  minds  are  thus  seasoned  with  the  truth,  you  will  find 
strength  to  abide  steadfast  to  the  testimony  of  it,  and  be 
prepared  for  services  in  the  church. 

And  now,  dear  friends  and  brethren,  as  you  are  improving 
a  wilderness^  and  may  be  numbered  amongst  the  first  planters 
in  one  part  of  a  province^  I  beseech  you,  in  the  love  of  Jesus 
Christ,  wisely  to  consider  the  force  of  your  examples,  and 
think  how  much  your  successors  may  be  thereby  affected. 
It  is  a  help  in  a  country,  yea,  and  a  great  favor  and  blessing, 
when  customs  first  settled  are  agreeable  to  sound  wisdom; 
but  when  they  are  otherwise  the  effect  of  them  is  grievous; 
and  children  feel  them.selves  encompassed  with  difficulties 
prepared  for  them  by  their  predecessors. 

As  moderate  care  and  exercise,  under  the  direction  of  true 
wisdom,  are  useful  both  to  mind  and  body,  so  by  these  means 
in  general  the  real  wants  of  life  are  easily  supplied,  our 
gracious  Father  having  so  proportioned  one  to  the  other 
that  keeping  in  the  medium  we  may  pass  on  quietly.  Where 
slaves  are  purchased  to  do  our  labor  numerous  difficulties 
attend  it.  To  rational  creatures  bondage  is  uneasy,  and 
frequently  occasions  sourness  and  discontent  In  them;  which 
affects  the  family  and  such  as  claim  the  mastery  over  them. 
Thus  people  and  their  children  are  many  times  encompassed 
with  vexations,  which  arise  from  their  applying  to  >vrong 
methods  to  get  a  living. 

I  have  been  informed  that  there  is  a  large  number  of 
Friends  in  5':our  parts  who  have  no  slaves;  and  in  tender 
and  most  affectionate  love  I  beseech  you  to  keep  clear  from 
purchasing  any.  Look,  my  dear  friends,  to  Divine  Provi- 
dence, and  follow  in  simplicity  that  exercise  of  body,  that 


220  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

plainness  and  frugality,  which  true  wisdom  leads  to;  so 
may  you  be  preserved  from  those  dangers  which  attend  such 
as  are  aiming  at  outward  ease  and  greatness. 

Treasures,  though  small,  attained  on  a  true  principle  of 
virtue,  are  sweet;  and  while  we  walk  in  the  light  of  the 
Lord  there  is  true  comfort  and  satisfaction  in  the  possession ; 
neither  the  murmurs  of  an  oppressed  people,  nor  a  throbbing, 
uneasy  conscience,  nor  anxious  thoughts  about  the  events  of 
things,  hinder  the  enjoyment  of  them. 

When  we  look  towards  the  end  of  life,  and  think  on  the 
division  of  our  substance  among  our  successors,  if  we  know 
that  it  was  collected  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  in  honesty,  in 
equity,  and  in  uprightness  of  heart  before  him,  we  may  con- 
sider it  as  his  gift  to  us,  and  with  a  single  eye  to  his  bless- 
ing, bestow  it  on  those  we  leave  behind  us.  Such  is  the 
happiness  of  the  plain  ways  of  true  virtue.  "  The  work  of 
righteousness  shall  be  peace;  and  the  effect  of  righteous- 
ness, quietness  and  assurance  forever."     (Isa.  xxxii.  17.) 

Dwell  here,  my  dear  friends;  and  then  in  remote  and 
solitary  deserts  you  may  find  true  peace  and  satisfaction.  If 
the  Lord  be  our  God,  in  truth  and  reality,  there  is  safety  for 
us :  for  he  is  a  stronghold  in  the  day  of  trouble,  and  knoweth 
them  that  trust  in  him. 

Isle  of  Wight  County,  in  Virginia, 
20th  of  the  5th  month,  1757. 

From  the  Yearly  Meeting  in  Virginia  I  went  to  Carolina, 
and  on  the  first  of  sixth  month  was  at  Wells  Monthly  Meet- 
ing, where  the  spring  of  the  gospel  ministry  was  opened,  and 
the  love  of  Jesus  Christ  experienced  among  us ;  to  his  name 
be  the  praise. 

Here  my  brother  joined  with  some  Friends  from  New 
Garden  who  Vv^ere  going  homeward;  and  I  went  next  to 
Simons  Creek  Monthly  Meeting,  where  I  was  silent  during 
the  meeting  for  worship.  When  business  came  on,  my  mind 
was  exercised  concerning  the  poor  slaves,  but  I  did  not  feel 
my  way  clear  to  speak.  In  this  condition  I  was  bowed  in 
spirit  before  the  Lord,  and  with  tears  and  inward  supplica- 
tion besought  him  so  to  open  my  understanding  that  I  might 
know  his  v/ill  concerning  me ;   and,  at  length,  my  mind  was 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  221 

settled  in  silence.  Near  the  end  of  their  business  a  member 
of  their  meeting  expressed  a  concern  that  had  some  time 
lain  upon  him,  on  account  of  Friends  so  much  neglecting 
their  duty  in  the  education  of  their  slaves,  and  proposed 
having  meetings  sometimes  appointed  for  them  on  a  week- 
day, to  be  attended  only  by  some  Friends  to  be  named  in 
their  Monthly  Meetings.  Many  present  appeared  to  unite 
with  the  proposal.  One  said  he  had  often  wondered  that  they, 
being  our  fellow-creatures,  and  capable  of  religious  under- 
standing, had  been  so  exceedingly  neglected;  another  ex- 
pressed the  like  concern,  and  appeared  zealous  that  in  future 
it  might  be  more  closely  considered.  At  length  a  m-inute  was 
made,  and  the  further  consideration  of  it  referred  to  their 
next  Monthly  Meeting.  The  Friend  who  made  this  proposal 
hath  negroes ;  he  told  me  that  he  was  at  New  Garden,  about 
two  hundred  and  fifty  miles  from  home,  and  came  back  alone ; 
that  in  this  solitary  journey  this  exercise,  in  regard  to  the 
education  of  their  negroes,  was  from  time  to  time  renewed 
in  his  mind.  A  Friend  of  some  note  in  Virginia,  who  hath 
slaves,  told  me  that  he  being  far  from  home  on  a  lonesome 
journey  had  m.any  serious  thoughts  about  them.;  and  his 
mind  was  so  impressed  therewith  that  he  believed  he  saw  a 
time  coming  when  Divine  Providence  v/ould  alter  the  circum- 
stance of  these  people,  respecting  their  condition  as  slaves. 

From  hence  I  went  to  a  meeting  at  Nev^^begun  Creek, 
and  sat  a  considerable  time  in  much  weakness;  then  I  felt 
truth  open  the  way  to  speak  a  little  in  much  plainness  and 
simplicity,  till  at  length,  through  the  increase  of  Divine  love 
amongst  us,  we  had  a  seasoning  opportunity.  This  was  also 
the  case  at  the  head  of  Little  River,  where  we  had  a  crowded 
meeting  on  a  first-day.  I  went  thence  to  the  Old  Neck, 
where  I  was  led  into  a  careful  searching  out  of  the  secret 
workings  of  the  mystery  of  iniquity,  which,  under  a  cover 
of  religion  exalts  itself  against  that  pure  spirit  which  leads 
in  the  way  of  meekness  and  self-denial.  Pineywoods  was 
the  last  meeting  I  was  at  in  Carolina;  it  was  large,  and  my 
heart  being  deeply  engaged,  I  was  drawn  forth  into  a  fervent 
labor  amongst  them. 

When  I  was  at  Newbegun  Creek  a  Friend  was  there 
who  labored  for  his  living,  having  no  negroes,  and  who  had 


222  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

been  a  minister  many  years.  He  came  to  me  the  next  day, 
and  as  we  rode  together,  he  signified  that  he  wanted  to 
talk  with  me  concerning  a  difficulty  he  had  been  under, 
which  he  related  nearly  as  follows:  That  as  moneys  had  of 
late  years  been  raised  by  a  tax  to  carry  on  the  wars,  he  had 
a  scruple  in  his  mind  in  regard  to  paying  it,  and  chose  rather 
to  suffer  restraint  of  his  goods;  but  as  he  was  the  only 
person  who  refused  it  in  those  parts,  and  knew  not  that  any 
one  else  was  in  the  like  circumstances,  he  signified  that  it 
had  been  a  heavy  trial  to  him,  especially  as  some  of  his 
brethren  had  been  uneasy  with  his  conduct  in  that  case. 
He  added,  that  from  a  sympathy  he  felt  with  me  yesterday 
in  meeting,  he  found  freedom  thus  to  open  the  matter  in  the 
way  of  querying  concerning  Friends  in  our  parts;  I  told 
him  the  state  of  Friends  amongst  us  as  well  as  I  was  able, 
and  also  that  I  had  for  some  time  been  under  the  like  scru- 
ple. I  believed  him  to  be  one  who  v/as  concerned  to  walk 
uprightly  before  the  Lord,  and  esteemed  it  my  duty  to  pre- 
serve this  note  concerning  him,  Samuel  Newby. 

From  hence  I  went  back  into  Virginia,  and  had  a  meeting 
near  James  Cowpland's;  it  was  a  time  of  inward  suffering, 
but  through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  I  was  made  content; 
at  another  meeting,  through  the  renewings  of  pure  love,  we 
had  a  very  comfortable  season. 

Travelling  up  and  down  of  late,  I  have  had  renewed  evi- 
dences that  to  be  faithful  to  the  Lord,  and  content  with  his 
will  concerning  me,  is  a  most  necessary  and  useful  lesson 
for  me  to  be  learning ;  looking  less  at  the  effects  of  my  labor 
than  at  the  pure  motion  and  reality  of  the  concern,  as  it 
arises  from  heavenly  love.  In  the  Lord  Jehovah  is  ever- 
lasting strength;  and  as  the  mind,  by  humble  resignation, 
is  united  to  Him,  and  we  utter  words  from  an  inward 
knowledge  that  they  arise  from  the  heavenly  spring,  though 
our  Vv'ay  may  be  difficult,  and  it  may  require  close  attention 
to  keep  in  it,  and  though  the  matter  in  which  we  may  be 
led  may  tend  to  our  own  abasement;  yet,  if  we  continue 
in  patience  and  meekness,  heavenly  peace  will  be  the  reward 
of  our  labors. 

I  attended  Curies  Meeting,  which,  though  small,  was  re- 
viving to  the  honest-hearted.    Afterwards  I  went  to  Black 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  223 

Creek  and  Caroline  Meetings,  from  whence,  accompanied 
by  William  Standiey  before  mentioned,  I  rode  to  Goose 
Creek,  being  much  through  the  woods,  and  about  one  hun- 
dred miles.  We  lodged  the  first  night  at  a  public-house; 
the  second  in  the  woods;  and  the  next  day  we  reached  a 
Friend's  house  at  Goose  Creek.  In  the  wcJods  we  were 
under  some  disadvantage,  having  no  fire-works  nor  bells  for 
our  horses,  but  we  stopped  a  little  before  night  and  let  them 
feed  on  the  wild  grass,  which  was  plentiful,  in  the  mean 
time  cutting  with  our  knives  a  store  against  night.  We  then 
secured  our  horses,  and  gathering  some  bushes  under  an  oak 
we  lay  down;  but  the  mosquitoes  being  numerous  and  the 
ground  damp  I  slept  but  little.  Thus  lying  in  the  wilderness, 
and  looking  at  the  stars,  I  was  led  to  contemplate  on  the 
condition  of  our  first  parents  when  they  were  sent  forth 
from  the  garden;  how  the  Almighty,  though  they  had  been 
disobedient,  continued  to  be  a  father  to  them,  and  showed 
them  what  tended  to  their  felicity  as  intelligent  creatures, 
and  was  acceptable  to  him.  To  provide  things  relative  to  our 
outward  living,  in  the  way  of  true  wisdom,  is  good,  and  the 
gift  of  improving  in  things  useful  is  a  good  gift,  and  comes 
from  the  Father  of  Lights.  Many  have  had  this  gift;  and 
from  age  to  age  there  have  been  improvements  of  this  kind 
made  in  the  world.  But  some,  not  keeping  to  the  pure  gift, 
have  in  the  creaturely  cunning  and  self-exaltation  sought  out 
many  inventions.  As  the  first  motive  to  these  inventions  of 
men,  as  distinct  from  that  uprightness  in  which  man  was 
created,  was  evil,  so  the  effects  have  been  and  are  evil.  It 
IS,  therefore,  as  necessary  for  us  at  this  day  constantly  to 
attend  on  the  heavenly  gift,  to  be  qualified  to  use  rightly  the 
good  things  in  this  life,  amidst  great  improvements,  as  it  was 
for  our  first  parents  when  they  were  without  any  improve- 
ments, without  any  friend  or  father  but  God  only. 

I  was  at  a  meeting  at  Goose  Creek,  and  next  at  a  Monthly 
Meeting  at  Fairfax,  where,  through  the  gracious  dealing  of 
the  Almighty  with  us,  his  power  prevailed  over  many  hearts. 
From  thence  I  went  to  Monoquacy  and  Pipe  Creek  in  Mary- 
land; at  both  places  I  had  cause  humbly  to  adore  Him  who 
had  supported  me  through  many  exercises,  and  by  whose 
help  I  was  enabled  to  reach  the  true  witness  in  the  hearts  of 


224  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

others.  There  were  some  hopeful  young  people  in  those 
parts.  I  had  meetings  afterwards  at  John  Everit's,  in  Mona- 
len,  and  at  Huntingdon,  and  I  was  made  humbly  thankful 
to  the  Lord,  who  opened  my  heart  amongst  the  people  in 
these  new  settlements,  so  that  it  was  a  time  of  encourage*- 
ment  to  the  honest-minded. 

At  Monalen  a  Friend  gave  me  some  account  of  a  religious 
society  among  the  Dutch  called  Mennonists,  and  amongst 
other  things  related  a  passage  in  substance  as  follows :  One 
oi-  the  Mennonists  having  acquaintance  with  a  man  of 
another  society  at  a  considerable  distance,  and  being  with  his 
wagon  on  business  near  the  house  of  his  said  acquaintance, 
and  night  coming  on,  he  had  thoughts  of  putting  up  with 
him,  but  passing  by  his  fields,  and  observing  the  distressed 
appearance  of  his  slaves,  he  kindled  a  fire  in  the  woods  hard 
by,  and  lay  there  that  night.  His  said  acquaintance  hearing 
where  he  lodged,  and  afterward  meeting  the  Mennonist,  told 
him  of  it,  adding  he  should  have  been  heartily  welcome  at 
his  house,  and  from  their  acquaintance  in  former  time  won- 
dered at  his  conduct  in  that  case.  The  Mennonist  replied, 
"  Ever  since  I  lodged  by  thy  field  I  have  wanted  an  oppor- 
tunity to  speak  with  thee.  I  had  intended  to  come  to  thy 
house  for  entertainment,  but  seeing  thy  slaves  at  their  work, 
and  observing  the  manner  of  their  dress,  I  had  no  liking  to 
come  to  partake  with  thee."  He  then  admonished  him  to 
use  them  with  more  humanity,  and  added,  "  As  I  lay  by  the 
fire  that  night,  I  thought  that  as  I  was  a  man  of  substance 
thou  wouldst  have  received  me  freely;  but  if  I  had  been  as 
poor  as  one  of  thy  slaves,  and  had  no  power  to  help  myself, 
I  should  have  received  from  thy  hand  no  kinder  usage  than 
they." 

In  this  journey  I  was  out  about  two  months,  and  travelled 
about  eleven  hundred  and  fifty  miles.  I  returned  home 
under  an  humbling  sense  of  the  gracious  dealings  of  the 
Lord  with  me,  in  preserving  me  through  many  trials  and 
afflictions. 


CHAPTER    V 
1757.  1758 

Considerations  on  tlie  Payment  of  a  Tax  laid  for  Carrying  on  the 
War  against  the  Indians — Meetings  of  the  Committee  of  the 
Yearly  Meeting  at  Philadelphia — Som.e  Notes  on  Thomas  a 
Kempis  and  John  Huss — The  present  Circumstances  of  Friends 
in  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey  very  Different  from  those  of 
our  Predecessors — The  Drafting  of  the  Militia  in  New  Jersey 
to  serve  in  the  Army,  with  some  Observations  on  the  State  of 
the  Members  of  our  Society  at  that  time — Visit  to  Friends  in 
Pennsylvania,  accompanied  by  Benjamin  Jones — Proceedings  at 
the  Monthly,  Quarterly,  and  Yearly  Meetings  in  Philadelphia, 
respecting  those  who  keep  Slaves 

FEW  years  past,  money  being  made  current  in  our 
province  for  carrying  on  wars,  and  to  be  called  in 
again  by  taxes  laid  on  the  inhabitants,  my  mind  was 
often  affected  with  the  thoughts  of  paying  such  taxes;  and 
I  believe  it  right  for  me  to  preserve  a  memorandum  con- 
cerning it.  I  was  told  that  Friends  in  England  frequently 
paid  taxes,  when  the  money  was  applied  to  such  purposes. 
I  had  conversation  with  several  noted  Friends  on  the  sub- 
ject, who  all  favored  the  payment  of  such  taxes;  some  of 
them  I  preferred  before  myself,  and  this  made  me  easier  for 
a  time;  yet  there  was  in  the  depth  of  my  mind  a  scruple 
which  I  never  could  get  over;  and  at  certain  times  I  was 
greatly  distressed  on  that  account. 

I  believed  that  there  v/ere  some  upright-hearted  men  whO' 
paid  such  taxes,  yet  could  not  see  that  their  example  was  a 
sufficient  reason  for  me  to  do  so,  while  I  believe  that  the 
spirit  of  truth  required  of  me,  as  an  individual,  to  suffer 
patiently  the  distress  of  goods,  rather  than  pay  actively. 

To  refuse  the  active  payment  of  a  tax  v/hich  our  Societj 
generally  paid  was  exceedingly  disagreeable;    but  to  do  g 
8  225  HC— Vol.  1 


226  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAH 

thing  contrary  to  my  conscience  appeared  yet  more  dreadful 
When  this  exercise  came  upon  me,  I  knew  of  none  under 
the  Hke  difficulty;  and  in  my  distress  I  besought  the  Lord 
to  enable  me  to  give  up  all  that  so  I  might  follow  him 
wheresoever  he  was  pleased  to  lead  me.  Under  this  exer- 
cise I  went  to  our  Yearly  Meeting  at  Philadelphia  in  the 
year  1755;  at  which  a  committee  was  appointed  of  some 
from  each  Quarterly  Meeting,  to  correspond  with  the  meet- 
ing for  sufferers  in  London;  and  another  to  visit  our 
Monthly  and  Quarterly  Meetings.  After  their  appointment, 
before  the  last  adjournment  of  the  meeting,  it  was  agreed 
that  these  tvv^o  committees  should  meet  together  in  Friends' 
school-house  in  the  city,  to  consider  some  things  in  which 
the  cause  of  truth  was  concerned.  They  accordingly  had  a 
weighty  conference  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord;  at  which  time 
I  perceived  there  were  many  Friends  under  a  scruple  like 
that  before  mentioned.^ 

As  scrupling  to  pay  a  tax  on  account  of  the  application 
hath  seldorn  been  heard  of  heretofore,  even  amongst  men  of 
integrity,  who  have  steadily  borne  their  testimony  against 
outward  wars  in  their  time,  I  may  therefore  note  some 
tilings  which  have  occurred  to  my  mind,  as  I  have  been 
inwardly  exercised  on  that  account.  From  the  steady  opposi- 
tion which  faithful  Friends  in  early  times  made  to  wrong 
things  then  approved,  they  were  hated  and  persecuted  by 
men  living  in  the  spirit  of  this  world,  and  suffering  with 
firmness,  they  were  made  a  blessing  to  the  church,  and  the 
work  prospered.  It  equally  concerns  men  in  every  age  to 
take  heed  to  their  own  spirits;  and  in  comparing  their  sit- 
uation with  ours,  to  me  it  appears  that  there  was  less  danger 
of  their  being  infected  with  the  spirit  of  this  world,  in  pay- 
ing such  taxes,  than  is  the  case  with  us  now.  They  had 
little  or  no  share  in  civil  government,  and  many  of  them 
declared  that  they  were,  through  the  power  of  God,  sepa- 
rated from  the  spirit  in  which  wars  were,  and  being  afflicted 
by  the  rulers  on  accoimt  of  their  testimony,  there  was  less 
likelihood  of  their  uniting  in  spirit  with  them  in  things 
inconsistent  with  the  purity  of  truth.     We,  from  the  first 

^  Christians  refused  to  pay  taxes  to  support  heathen  temples.  See  Cave's 
Primitive  Christianity,  Part  III.,  p.  327, 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  227 

settlement  of  this  land,  have  known  little  or  no  troubles  of 
that  sort.  The  profession  of  our  predecessors  was  for  a 
time  accounted  reproachful,  but  at  length  their  uprightness 
being  understood  by  the  rulers,  and  their  innocent  sufferings 
moving  them,  our  way  of  worship  was  tolerated,  and  many 
of  our  members  in  these  colonies  became  active  in  civil 
government.  Being  thus  tried  with  favor  and  prosperity, 
this  world  appeared  inviting;  our  minds  have  been  turned 
to  the  improvement  of  our  country,  to  merchandise  and  the 
sciences,  amongst  which  are  many  things  useful,  if  followed 
in  pure  wisdom;  but  in  our  present  condition  I  believe  it 
will  not  be  denied  that  a  carnal  mind  is  gaining  upon  us. 
Some  of  our  members,  who  are  officers  in  civil  government, 
are  in  one  case  or  other,  called  upon  in  their  respective  sta- 
tions to  assist  in  things  relative  to  the  wars;  but  being  in 
doubt  whether  to  act  or  to  crave  to  be  excused  from  their 
office,  if  they  see  their  brethren  united  in  the  payment  of  a 
tax  to  carry  on  the  said  wars,  may  think  their  case  not 
much  different,  and  so  might  quench  the  tender  movings  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  in  their  minds.  Thus,  by  small  degrees,  we 
might  approach  so  near  to  fighting  that  the  distinction  would 
be  little  else  than  the  name  of  a  peaceable  people. 

It  requires  great  self-denial  and  resignation  of  ourselves 
to  God,  to  attain  that  state  wherein  we  can  freely  cease 
from  fighting  when  wrongfully  invaded,  if,  by  our  fighting, 
there  were  a  probability  of  overcoming  the  invaders.  Who- 
ever rightly  attains  to  it  does  in  some  degree  feel  that  spirit 
in  which  our  Redeemer  gave  his  life  for  us;  and  through 
Divine  goodness  many  of  our  predecessors,  and  many  now 
living,  have  learned  this  blessed  lesson;  but  many  others, 
having  their  religion  chiefly  by  education,  and  not  being 
enough  acquainted  with  that  cross  which  crucifies  to  the 
world,  do  manifest  a  temper  distinguishable  from  that  of  an 
entire  trust  in  God.  In  calmly  considering  these  things,  it 
hath  not  appeared  strange  to  me  that  an  exercise  hath  now 
fallen  upon  some,  which,  with  respect  to  the  outward 
means,  is  different  from  what  was  known  to  many  of  those 
who  went  before  us. 

Some  time  after  the  Yearly  Meeting,  the  said  committees 
met  at  Philadelphia,  and,  by  adjournments,  continued  sitting 


228  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

several  days.  The  calamities  of  war  were  now  increasing; 
the  frontier  inhabitants  of  Pennsylvania  were  frequently 
surprised;  some  were  slain,  and  many  taken  captive  by  the 
Indians;  and  while  these  committees  sat,  the  corpse  of  one 
so  slain  was  brought  in  a  wagon,  and  taken  through  the 
streets  of  the  city  in  his  bloody  garments,  to  alarm  the 
people  and  rouse  them  to  war. 

Friends  thus  met  were  not  all  of  one  mind  in  relation  to 
the  tax,  which,  to  those  who  scrupled  it,  made  the  way  more 
difficult.  To  refuse  an  active  payment  at  such  a  time  might 
be  construed  into  an  act  of  disloyalty,  and  appeared  likely 
to  displease  the  rulers,  not  only  here  but  in  England;  still 
there  was  a  scruple  so  fixed  on  the  minds  of  many  Friends 
that  nothing  moved  it.  It  was  a  conference  the  most  weighty 
that  ever  I  was  at,  and  the  hearts  of  many  were  bowed  in 
reverence  before  the  Most  High.  Some  Friends  of  the  said 
committees  who  appeared  easy  to  pay  the  tax,  after  several 
adjournments,  withdrew;  others  of  them  continued  till  the 
last.  At  length  an  epistle  of  tender  love  and  caution  to 
Friends  in  Pennsylvania  was  drawn  up,  and  being  read 
several  times  and  corrected,  was  signed  by  such  as  were 
free  to  sign  it,  and  afterward  sent  to  the  Monthly  and  Quar- 
terly Meetings. 

Ninth  of  eight  month,  1757. — Orders  came  at  night  to  the 
military  officers  in  our  county  (Burlington),  directing  them 
to  draft  the  militia,  and  prepare  a  number  of  men  to  go  off 
as  soldiers,  to  the  relief  of  the  English  at  Fort  William 
Henry,  in  New  York  governmient;  a  few  days  after  which, 
there  was  a  general  review  of  the  militia  at  Mount  Holly, 
and  a  number  of  men  were  chosen  and  sent  off  under  some 
officers.  Shortly  after,  there  came  orders  to  draft  three 
times  as  many,  who  were  to  hold  themselves  in  readiness  to 
march  when  fresh  orders  came.  On  the  17th  there  was  a 
meeting  of  the  military  officers  at  Mount  Holly,  who  agreed 
on  draft;  orders  were  sent  to  the  men  so  chosen  to  meet 
their  respective  captains  at  set  times  and  places,  those  in  our 
township  to  meet  at  Mount  HoUy^  amongst  whom  were  a 
considerable  number  of  our  Societyo  My  mind  being  affected 
herewith,  I  had  fresh  opportunity  to  see  and  consider  the 
advantage  of  living  in  the  real  substance  of  religion,  where 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  229 

practice  doth  harmonize  with  principle.  Amongst  the 
officers  are  men  of  understanding,  who  have  some  regard  to 
sincerity  where  they  see  it;  and  when  such  in  the  execu- 
tion of  their  office  have  men  to  deal  with  whom  they  believe 
to  be  upright-hearted,  it  is  a  painful  task  to  put  them  to 
trouble  on  account  of  scruples  of  conscience,  and  they  will 
be  likely  to  avoid  it  as  much  as  easily  may  be.  But  where 
men  profess  to  be  so  meek  and  heavenly-minded,  and  to  have 
their  trust  so  firmly  settled  in  God  that  they  cannot  join  in 
wars,  and  yet  by  their  spirit  and  conduct  in  common  life 
manifest  a  contrary  disposition,  their  difficulties  are  great  at 
such  a  time. 

When  officers  who  are  anxiously  endeavoring  to  get  troops 
to  answer  the  dem.ands  of  their  superiors  see  men  who  are 
insincere  pretend  scruple  of  conscience  in  hopes  of  being 
excused  from  a  dangerous  employment,  it  is  likely  they  will 
be  roughly  handled.  In  this  time  of  commotion  some  of  our 
young  men  left  these  parts  and  tarried  abroad  till  it  was 
over;  som_e  came,  and  proposed  to  go  as  soldiers;  others 
appeared  to  have  a  real  tender  scruple  in  their  minds  against 
joining  in  wars,  and  were  much  humbled  under  the  appre- 
hension of  a  trial  so  near.  I  had  conversation  with  several 
of  them  to  my  satisfaction.  When  the  captain  came  to  town, 
some  of  the  last-mentioned  went  and  told  him  in  substance 
as  follows:  That  they  could  not  bear  arms  for  conscience' 
sake;  nor  could  they  hire  any  to  go  in  their  places,  being 
resigned  as  to  the  event.  At  length  the  captain  acquainted 
them  all  that  they  might  return  home  for  the  present,  but  he 
required  them  to  provide  themselves  as  soldiers,  and  be  in 
readiness  to  march  when  called  upon.  This  was  such  a 
time  as  I  had  not  seen  before;  and  yet  I  may  say,  with 
thankfulness  to  the  Lord,  that  I  believed  the  trial  was  in- 
tended for  our  good;  and  I  was  favored  with  resignation  to 
him.  The  French  army  having  taken  the  fort  they  were 
besieging,  destroyed  it  and  went  away ;  the  company  of  men 
who  were  first  drafted,  after  some  days'  march,  had  orders 
to  return  home,  and  those  on  the  second  draft  were  no  more 
called  upon  on  that  occasion. 

Fourth  of  fourth  mionth,  ly^S. — Orders  came  to  some  offi- 
cers in  Mount  Holly  to  prepare  quarters  for  a  short  time  for 


230  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

about  one  hundred  soldiers.  An  officer  and  two  other  men,  all 
inhabitants  of  our  town  came  to  my  house.  The  officer  told 
me  that  he  came  to  desire  me  to  provide  lodging  and  enter- 
tainment for  two  soldiers,  and  that  six  shillings  a  week  per 
man  would  be  allowed  as  pay  for  it.  The  case  being  new  and 
unexpected  I  made  no  answer  suddenly,  but  sat  a  time  silent, 
my  mind  being  inward.  I  was  fully  convinced  that  the  pro- 
ceedings in  wars  are  inconsistent  with  the  purity  of  the 
Christian  religion;  and  to  be  hired  to  entertain  men,  who 
were  then  under  pay  as  soldiers,  was  a  difficulty  with  me. 
I  expected  they  had  legal  authority  for  what  they  did;  and 
after  a  short  time  I  said  to  the  officer,  if  the  men  are  sent 
here  for  entertainment  I  believe  I  shall  not  refuse  to  admit 
them  into  my  house,  but  the  nature  of  the  case  is  such  that 
I  expect  I  cannot  keep  them  on  hire;  one  of  the  men  in- 
tim.ated  that  he  thought  I  might  do  it  consistently  with  my 
religious  principles.  To  which  I  made  no  reply,  believing 
silence  at  that  time  best  for  me.  Though  they  spake  of  two, 
there  came  only  one,  who  tarried  at  my  house  about  two 
weeks,  and  behaved  himself  civilly.  When  the  officer  came 
to  pay  me,  I  told  him.  I  could  not  take  pay,  having  admitted 
him  into  my  house  in  a  passive  obedience  to  authority.  I 
was  on  horseback  when  he  spake  to  me,  and  as  I  turned  from 
him,  he  said  he  was  obliged  to  me;  to  v/hich  I  said  nothing; 
but,  thinking  on  the  expression,  I  grew  uneasy;  and  after- 
wards, being  ndar  where  he  lived,  I  went  and  told  him  on 
what  grounds  I  refused  taking  pay  for  keeping  the  soldier. 

I  have  been  informed  that  Thomas  a  Kempis  lived  and 
died  in  the  profession  of  the  Roman  Catholic  religion;  and, 
in  reading  his  writings,  I  have  believed  him  to  be  a  man  of 
a  true  Christian  spirit,  as  fully  so  as  many  who  died  martyrs 
because  they  could  not  join  with  some  superstitions  in  that 
church.  All  true  Christians  are  of  the  same  spirit,  but 
their  gifts  are  diverse,  Jesiis  Christ  appointing  to  each  one 
his  peculiar  office,  agreeably  to  his  infinite  wisdom. 

John  Huss  contended  against  the  errors  which  had  crept 
into  the  church,  in  opposition  to  the  Council  of  Constance, 
which  the  historian  reports  to  have  consisted  of  some  thou- 
sand persons.  He  modestly  vindicated  the  cause  which  he 
believed  was  right;  and  though  his  language  and  conduct 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  231 

towards  his  judges  appear  to  have  been  respectful,  yet  he 
never  could  be  moved  from  the  principles  settled  in  his 
mind.  To  use  his  own  words :  "  This  I  most  humbly  require 
and  desire  of  you  all,  even  for  his  sake  who  is  the  God  of 
us  all,  that  I  be  not  compelled  to  the  thing  which  my  con- 
science doth  repugn  or  strive  against."  And  again,  in  his 
answer  to  the  Emperor :  "  I  refuse  nothing,  most  noble  Em- 
peror, whatsoever  the  council  shall  decree  or  determine  upon 
me,  only  this  one  thing  I  except,  that  I  do  not  offend  God 
and  my  conscience."^  At  length,  rather  than  act  contrary 
to  that  which  he  believed  the  Lord  required  of  him,  he  chose 
to  suffer  death  by  fire.  Thomas  a  Kempis,  without  disputing 
against  the  articles  then  generally  agreed  to,  appears  to 
have  labored,  by  a  pious  example  as  well  as  by  preaching 
and  writing,  to  promote  virtue  and  the  inward  spiritual  re- 
ligion ;  and  I  believe  they  were  both  sincere-hearted  followers 
of  Christ.  True  charity  is  an  excellent  virtue;  and  sincerely 
to  labor  for  their  good,  whose  belief  in  all  points  doth  not 
agree  with  ours,  is  a  happy  state. 

Near  the  beginning  of  the  year  1758,  I  went  one  evening, 
in  company  with  a  friend,  to  visit  a  sick  person ;  and  before 
our  return  we  were  told  of  a  woman  living  near,  who  had 
for  several  days  heen  disconsolate,  occasioned  by  a  dream, 
wherein  death,  and  the  judgments  of  the  Almighty  after 
death,  were  represented  to  her  mind  in  a  moving  manner. 
Her  sadness  on  that  account  being  worn  off,  the  friend  with 
whom  I  was  in  company  went  to  see  her,  and  had  some  re- 
ligious conversation  with  her  and  her  husband.  With  this 
visit  they  Vv^ere  somewhat  affected,  and  the  man,  with  many 
tears,  expressed  his  satisfaction.  In  a  short  time  after  the 
poor  man,  being  on  the  river  in  a  storm  of  wind,  was  with 
one  more  drowned. 

Eighth  month,  1758. — Having  had  drawings  in  my  mind 
to  be  at  the  Quarterly  Meeting  in  Chester  County,  and  at 
some  meetings  in  the  county  of  Philadelphia,  I  went  first 
to  said  Quarterly  Meeting,  which  was  large.  Several 
weighty  matters  came  under  consideration  and  debate,  and 
the  Lord  was  pleased  to  qualify  some  of  his  servants  with 
strength  and  firmness  to  bear  the  burden  of  the  day.    Though 

2  Fox's  Acts  and  Monuments,  p.  233. 


232  THE  JOURNAL   OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

I  said  but  little,  my  mind  was  deeply  exercised;  and,  under 
a  sense  of  God's  love,  in  the  anointing  and  fitting  of  some 
young  men  for  his  work,  I  was  comforted,  and  my  heart  was 
tendered  before  him.  From  hence  I  went  to  the  Youth's 
Meeting  at  Darby,  where  my  beloved  friend  and  brother 
Benjamin  Jones  met  me  by  appointment  before  I  left  home, 
to  join  in  the  visit.  We  were  at  Radnor,  Merion,  Richland, 
North  Wales,  Plymouth,  and  Abington  meetings,  and  had 
cause  to  bow  in  reverence  before  the  Lord,  our  gracious 
God,  by  whose  help  way  was  opened  for  us  fromi  day  to  day. 
I  was  out  about  two  weeks,  and  rode  about  two  hun- 
dred miles. 

The  Monthly  Meeting  of  Philadelphia  having  been  under 
a  concern  on  account  of  some  Friends  who  this  summer 
(1758)  had  bought  negro  slaves,  proposed  to  their  Quarterly 
Meeting  to  have  the  minute  reconsidered  in  the  Yearly 
Meeting,  which  was  made  last  on  that  subject,  and  the  said 
Quarterly  Meeting  appointed  a  committee  to  consider  it, 
and  to  report  to  their  next.  This  committee  having  met 
once  and  adjourned,  and  I,  going  to  Philadelphia  to  meet 
a  committee  of  the  Yearly  Meeting,  was  in  town  the  evening 
on  which  the  Quarterly  Meeting's  committee  met  the  second 
time,  and  finding  an  inclination  to  sit  with  them,  I,  with 
some  others,  was  admitted,  and  Friends  had  a  weighty  con- 
ference on  the  subject.  Soon  after  their  next  Quarterly 
meeting  I  heard  that  the  case  was  coming  to  our  Yearly 
Meeting.  This  brought  a  weighty  exercise  upon  me,  and 
under  a  sense  of  my  own  infirmities,  and  the  great  danger 
I  felt  of  turning  aside  from  perfect  purity,  my  mind  was  often 
drawn  to  retire  alone,  and  put  up  my  prayers  to  the  Lord  that 
he  would  be  graciously  pleased  to  strengthen  me ;  that  setting 
aside  all  views  of  self-interest  and  the  friendship  of  this 
world,  I  might  stand  fully  resigned  to  his  holy  will. 

In  this  Yearly  Meeting  several  weighty  matters  were  con- 
sidered, and  toward  the  last  that  in  relation  to  dealing  with 
persons  who  purchase  slaves.  During  the  several  sittings 
of  the  said  meeting,  my  mind  was  frequently  covered  with 
inward  prayer,  and  I  could  say  with  David,  "that  tears 
were  my  meat  day  and  night."  The  case  of  slave-keeping 
lay  heavy  upon  me,  nor  did  I  find  any  engagement  to  speak 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  233 

directly  to  any  other  matter  before  the  meeting.  Now  when 
this  case  was  opened  several  faithful  Friends  spake  weightily 
thereto,  with  which  I  was  comforted;  and  feeling  a  concern 
to  cast  in  my  mite,  I  said  in  substance  as  follows : — 

"  In  the  difficulties  attending  us  in  this  life  nothing  is 
more  precious  than  the  mind  of  truth  inwardly  manifested; 
and  it  is  my  earnest  desire  that  in  this  weighty  matter  we 
may  be  so  truly  humbled  as  to  be  favored  with  a  clear  un- 
derstanding of  the  mind  of  truth,  and  follow  it;  this  would 
be  of  more  advantage  to  the  Society  than  any  medium  not 
in  the  clearness  of  Divine  wisdom.  The  case  is  difficult 
to  some  who  have  slaves,  but  if  such  set  aside  all  self-interest, 
and  come  to  be  weaned  from  the  desire  of  getting  estates, 
or  even  from  holding  them  together,  when  truth  requires 
the  contrary,  I  believe  way  will  so  open  that  they  will  know 
how  to  steer  through  those  difficulties." 

Many  Friends  appeared  to  be  deeply  bowed  under  the 
weight  of  the  work,  and  manifested  much  firmness  in  their 
love  to  the  cause  of  truth  and  universal  righteousness  on  the 
earth.  And  though  none  did  openly  justify  the  practice  of 
slave-keeping  in  general,  yet  some  appeared  concerned  lest 
the  meeting  should  go  into  such  measures  as  might  give  un- 
easiness to  many  brethren,  alleging  that  if  Friends  patiently 
continued  under  the  exercise  the  Lord  in  his  time  might  open 
a  way  for  the  deliverance  of  these  people.  Finding  an  en- 
gagement to  speak,  I  said,  "  My  mind  is  often  led  to  con- 
sider the  purity  of  the  Divine  Being,  and  the  justice  of 
his  judgments;  and  herein  my  soul  is  covered  with  awful- 
ness.  I  cannot  omit  to  hint  of  some  cases  where  people  have 
not  been  treated  with  the  purity  of  justice,  and  the  event 
hath  been  lamentable.  Many  slaves  on  this  continent  are 
oppressed,  and  their  cries  have  reached  the  ears  of  the  Most 
High.  Such  are  the  purity  and  certainty  of  his  judgments, 
that  he  cannot  be  partial  in  our  favor.  In  infinite  love  and 
goodness  he  hath  opened  our  understanding  from  one  time 
to  another  concerning  our  duty  towards  this  people,  and  it 
is  not  a  time  for  delay.  Should  we  now  be  sensible  of  what 
he  requires  of  us,  and  through  a  respect  to  the  private  in- 
terest of  some  persons,  or  through  a  regard  to  some  friend- 
ships which  do  not  stand  on  an  immutable  foundation,  neglect 


234  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

to  do  our  duty  in  firmness  and  constancy,  still  waiting  for 
some  extraordinary  means  to  bring  about  their  deliverance, 
God  may  by  terrible  things  in  righteousness  answer  us  in 
this  matter." 

Many  faithful  brethren  labored  with  great  firmness,  and 
the  love  of  truth  in  a  good  degree  prevailed.  Several  who 
had  negroes  expressed  their  desire  that  a  rule  might  be 
made  to  deal  with  such  Friends  as  offenders  who  bought 
slaves  in  future.  To  this  it  was  answered  that  the  root  of 
this  evil  would  never  be  effectually  struck  at  until  a  thorough 
search  was  made  in  the  circumstances  of  such  Friends  as 
kept  negroes,  with  respect  to  the  righteousness  of  their 
motives  in  keeping  them,  that  impartial  justice  might  be  ad- 
ministered throughout.  Several  Friends  expressed  their  de- 
sire that  a  visit  might  be  made  to  such  Friends  as  kept  slaves, 
and  many  others  said  that  they  believed  liberty  was  the 
negro's  right;  to  which,  at  length,  no  opposition  was  pub- 
licly made.  A  minute  vv^as  made  more  full  on  that  subject 
than  any  heretofore;  and  the  names  of  several  Friends  en- 
tered who  were  free  to  join  in  a  visit  to  such  as  kept  slaves. 


CHAPTER  VI 

1758,  1759 

Visit  to  the  Quarterly  Meetings  in  Chester  County — Joins  Daniel 
Stanton  and  John  Scarborough  in  a  Visit  to  such  as  kept  Slaves 
there — Some  Observations  on  the  Conduct  which  those  should 
maintain  v/ho  speak  in  Meetings  for  Discipline — More  Visits  to 
such  as  kept  Slaves,  and  to  Friends  near  Salem — Account  of  the 
Yearly  Meeting  in  the  Year  1759,  and  of  the  increasing  Con- 
cern in  Divers  Provinces  to  Labor  against  Bujdng  and  Keeping 
Slaves — The  Yearly  Meeting  Epistle — Thoughts  on  the  Small- 
pox spreading,  and  on  Inoculation. 

LEVENTH  of  eleventh  month,  1758.— This  day  I  set 
I  .  out  for  Concord;  the  Quarterly  Meeting  heretofore 
"^  held  there  was  now,  b}^  reason  of  a  great  increase  of 
members,  divided  into  two  by  the  agreement  of  Friends  at 
our  last  Yearly  Meeting.  Here  I  met  with  our  beloved 
friends  Samuel  Spavold  and  Mary  Kirby  from  England,  and 
with  Joseph  White  from  Buck's  County ;  the  latter  had  taken 
leave  of  his  family  in  order  to  go  on  a  religious  visit  to 
Friends  in  England,  and,  through  Divine  goodness,  we  were 
favored  with  a  strengthening  opportunity  together. 

After  this  meeting  I  joined  with  my  friends,  Daniel  Stan- 
ton and  John  Scarborough,  in  visiting  Friends  who  had 
slaves.  At  night  we  had  a  family  meeting  at  William  Trim- 
ble's, many  young  people  being  there ;  and  it  was  a  precious, 
reviving  opportunity.  Next  morning  we  had  a  comfortable 
sitting  with  a  sick  neighbor,  and  thence  to  the  burial  of  the 
corpse  of  a  Friend  at  Uwchland  Meeting,  at  which  were 
many  people,  and  it  was  a  time  of  Divine  favor,  after  which 
we  visited  som.e  M^ho  had  slaves.  In  the  evening  we  had  a 
family  meeting  at  a  Friend's  house,  where  the  channel  of 
the  gospel  love  was  opened,  and  my  mind  was  com-forted 
after  a  hard  day's  labor.    The  next  day  we  were  at  Goshen 

235 


236  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

Monthly  Meeting,  and  on  the  i8th  attended  the  Quarterly 
Meeting  at  London  Grove,  it  being  first  held  at  that  place. 
Here  we  met  again  with  all  the  before-mentioned  Friends, 
and  had  some  edifying  meetings.  Near  the  conclusion  of  the 
meeting  for  business,  Friends  were  incited  to  constancy  in 
supporting  the  testimony  of  truth,  and  reminded  of  the  ne- 
cessity which  the  disciples  of  Christ  are  under  to  attend 
principally  to  his  business  as  he  is  pleased  to  open  it  to  us, 
and  to  be  particularly  careful  to  have  our  minds  redeemicd 
from  the  love  of  wealth,  and  our  outward  affairs  in  as  little 
room  as  may  be,  that  no  temporal  concerns  may  entangle 
our  affections  or  hinder  us  from  diligently  following  the  dic- 
tates of  truth  in  laboring  to  promote  the  pure  spirit  of  meek- 
ness and  heavenly-mindedness  amongst  the  children  of  men 
in  these  days  of  calamity  and  distress,  wherein  God  is  visit- 
ing our  land  with  his  just  judgments. 

Each  of  these  Quarterly  Meetings  was  large  and  sat  near 
eight  hours.  I  had  occasion  to  consider  that  it  is  a  weighty 
thing  to  speak  much  in  large  meetings  for  business,  for 
except  our  minds  are  rightly  prepared,  and  we  clearly  under- 
stand the  case  we  speak  to,  instead  of  forwarding,  we  hinder 
business,  and  make  more  labor  for  those  on  whom  the  burden 
of  the  work  is  laid.  If  selfish  views  or  a  partial  spirit  have 
any  room  in  our  minds,  we  are  unfit  for  the  Lord's  work;  if 
we  have  a  clear  prospect  of  the  business,  and  proper  weight 
on  our  mJnds  to  speak,  we  should  avoid  useless  apologies  and 
repetitions.  Where  people  are  gathered  from  far,  and  ad- 
journing a  meeting  of  business  is  attended  with  great  diffi- 
culty, it  behoves  all  to  be  cautious  how  they  detain  a  meeting, 
especially  when  they  have  sat  six  or  seven  hours,  and  have  a 
great  distance  to  ride  home.    After  this  meeting  I  rode  home. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  month  I  joined,  in  company 
with  my  friends  John  Sykes  and  Daniel  Stanton,  in  visiting 
such  as  had  slaves.  Some  whose  hearts  were  rightly  exer- 
cised about  them  appeared  to  be  glad  of  our  visit,  but  in 
some  places  our  v/ay  was  more  difficult.  I  often  saw  the 
necessity  of  keeping  down  to  that  root  from  vv^hence  our 
concern  proceeded,  and  have  cause,  in  reverent  thankfulness, 
humbly  to  bow  down  before  the  Lord,  who  was  near  to  me, 
and  preserved  my  mind  in  calmness  under  some  sharp  con- 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  237 

flicts,  and  begat  a  spirit  of  sympathy  and  tenderness  in  me 
towards  some  who  were  grievously  entangled  by  the  spirit 
of  this  world. 

First  month,  1759. — Having  found  my  mind  drawn  to  visit 
some  of  the  more  active  members  in  our  Society  at  Philadel- 
phia, who  had  slaves,  I  met  my  friend  John  Churchman  there 
by  agreement,  and  we  continued  about  a  week  in  the  city. 
We  visited  some  that  were  sick,  and  some  widows  and  their 
fam.ilies,  and  the  other  part  of  our  time  was  mostly  em- 
plo3^ed  in  visiting  such  as  had  slaves.  It  was  a  time  of  deep 
exercise,  but  looking  often  to  the  Lord  for  his  assistance, 
he  in  unspeakable  kindness  favored  us  with  the  influence  of 
that  spirit  which  crucifies  to  the  greatness  and  splendor  of 
this  world,  and  enabling  us  to  go  through  some  heavy  labors, 
in  which  we  found  peace. 

Twenty-fourth  of  third  month,  1759. — After  attending  our 
general  Spring  Meeting  at  Philadelphia  I  again  joined  with 
John  Churchman  on  a  visit  to  some  who  had  slaves  in  Phila- 
delphia, and  with  thankfulness  to  our  Heavenly  Father  I 
m.ay  say  that  Divine  love  and  a  true  sympathizing  tenderness 
of  heart  prevailed  at  times  in  this  service. 

Having  at  times  perceived  a  shyness  in  some  Friends  of 
considerable  note  towards  me,  I  found  an  engagement  in 
gospel  love  to  pay  a  visit  to  one  of  them ;  and  as  I  dwelt  under 
the  exercise,  I  felt  a  resignedness  in  my  mind  to  go  and  tell 
him  privately  that  I  had  a  desire  to  have  an  opportunity  with 
him  alone;  to  this  proposal  he  readily  agreed,  and  then,  in 
the  fear  of  the  Lord,  things  relating  to  that  shyness  w^ere 
searched  to  the  bottom,  and  we  had  a  large  conference, 
which,  I  believe  was  of  use  to  both  of  us,  and  I  am  thankful 
that  way  was  opened  for  it. 

Fourteenth  of  sixth  month. — Having  felt  drawings  in  my 
mind  to  visit  Friends  about  Salem,  and  having  the  appro- 
bation of  our  Monthly  Meeting,  I  attended  their  Quarterly 
Meeting,  and  was  out  seven  days,  and  attended  seven  meet- 
ings ;  in  some  of  them  I  was  chiefly  silent ;  in  others,  through 
the  baptizing  power  of  truth,  my  heart  was  enlarged  in 
heavenly  love,  and  I  found  a  near  fellowship  with  the  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  in  the  manifold  trials  attending  their  Chris- 
tian progress  through  this  world. 


238  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

Seventh  month. — I  have  found  an  increasing  concert!  fm 
my  mind  to  visit  some  active  members  in  our  Society  who 
have  slaves,  and  having  no  opportunity  of  the  company  of 
such  as  were  named  in  the  minutes  of  the  Yearly  Meeting, 
I  went  alone  to  their  houses,  and,  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord, 
acquainted  them  with  the  exercise  I  was  under;  and,  thus, 
sometimes  by  a  few  words,  I  found  myself  discharged  from 
a  heavy  burden.  After  this,  our  friend  John  Churchman 
coming  into  our  province  with  a  view  to  be  at  some  meetings, 
and  to  join  again  in  the  visit  to  those  who  had  slaves,  I  bore 
him  company  in  the  said  visit  to  some  active  members, 
and  found  inward  satisfaction. 

At  our  Yearly  Meeting  this  year,  we  had  some  weighty 
seasons,  in  which  the  power  of  truth  was  largely  extended, 
to  the  strengthening  of  the  honest-minded.  As  the  epistles 
which  were  to  be  sent  to  the  Yearly  Meetings  on  this  con- 
tinent were  read,  I  observed  that  in  most  of  them,  both  this 
year  and  the  last,  it  was  recom.mended  to  Friends  to  labor 
against  buying  and  keeping  slaves,  and  in  some  of  them 
the  subject  was  closely  treated  upon.  As  this  practice  hatH 
long  been  a  heavy  exercise  to  me,  and  I  have  often  waded 
through  mortifying  labors  on  that  account,  and  at  times  in 
some  meetings  have  been  almost  alone  therein,  I  was  humbly 
bowed  in  thankfulness  in  observing  the  increasing  concern 
in  our  religious  society,  and  seeing  how  the  Lord  was  raising 
up  and  qualifying  servants  for  his  work,  not  only  in  this 
respect,  but  for  promoting  the  cause  of  truth  in  general. 

This  meeting  continued  near  a  week.  For  several  days, 
in  the  fore  part  of  it,  my  mind  was  drawn  into  a  deep  inward 
stillness,  and  being  at  times  covered  with  the  spirit  of  sup- 
plication, my  heart  was  secretly  poured  out  before  the  Lord. 
Near  the  conclusion  of  the  meeting  for  business,  way  opened 
in  the  pure  Sowings  of  Divine  love  for  me  to  express  what 
lay  upon  me,  which,  as  it  then  arose  in  my  mind,  was  first 
to  show  how  deep  answers  to  deep  in  the  hearts  of  the  sincere 
and  upright;  though,  in  their  different  growths,  they  may 
not  all  have  attained  to  the  same  clearness  in  some  points 
relating  to  our  testimony.  And  I  was  then  led  to  mention 
the  integrity  and  constancy  of  many  martyrs  who  gave  their 
lives  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  and  yet,  in  some  points,  they 


THE  JOURNAL   OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  239 

held  doctrines  distinguishable  from  some  which  we  hold,  that, 
in  all  ages,  where  people  were  faithful  to  the  light  and, 
understanding  which  the  Most  High  afforded  them,  they 
found  acceptance  with  Him,  and  though  there  may  be  differ- 
ent ways  of  thinking  amongst  us  in  some  particulars,  yet,  if 
we  mutually  keep  to  that  spirit  and  power  which  crucifies 
to  the  world,  which  teaches  us  to  be  content  with  things! 
really  needful,  and  to  avoid  all  superfluities,  and  give  up 
our  hearts  to  fear  and  serve  the  Lord,  true  unity  may  still 
be  preserved  amongst  us;  that  if  those  who  were  at  times 
under  sufferings  on  account  of  some  scruples  of  conscience 
kept  low  and  humble,  and  in  their  conduct  in  life  manifested 
a  spirit  of  true  charity,  it  would  be  more  likely  to  reach  the 
witness  in  others,  and  be  of  more  service  in  the  church,  than 
if  their  sufferings  were  attended  with  a  contrary  spirit  and 
conduct.  In  this  exercise  I  was  drawn  into  a  sympathizing 
tenderness  with  the  sheep  of  Christ,  however  distinguished 
one  from  another  in  this  world,  and  the  like  disposition  ap- 
peared to  spread  over  others  in  the  meeting.  Great  is  the 
goodness  of  the  Lord  towards  his  poor  creatures. 

An  epistle  went  forth  from  this  Yearly  Meeting  which  I 
think  good  to  give  a  place  in  this  Journal.    It  is  as  follows. 

From  the  Yearly  Meeting  held  at  Philadelphia^  for  Pennsylvania  and 
New  Jersey^  from  the  twenty-secojtd  day  of  the  ninth  month  to 
the  twenty-eighth  of  the  same,  inclusive.,  1759. 

To  THE  Quarterly  and  Monthly  Meetings  of  Friends  belonging 
TO  the  said  Yearly  Meeting: — 

Dearly  beloved  Friends  and  Brethren^ — In  an  awful 
'sense  of  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of  the  Lord  our  God, 
whose  tender  mercies  have  been  continued  to  us  in  this  land, 
we  affectionately  salute  you,  with  sincere  and  fervent  desires 
that  we  may  reverently  regard  the  dispensations  of  his  provi- 
dence, and  improve  under  them. 

The  empires  and  kingdoms  of  the  earth  are  subject  to 
his  almighty  power.  He  is  the  God  of  the  spirits  of  all  flesh, 
and  deals  with  his  people  agreeable  to  that  wisdom,  the 
depth  whereof  is  to  us  unsearchable.  We  in  these  provinces 
may  say,  He  hath,  as  a  gracious  and  tender  parent,  dealt 
bguntifully  with  us,  even  from  the  days  of  our  fathers.    It 


240  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

was  he  who  strengthened  them  to  labor  through  the  difHcul« 
ties  attending  the  improvement  of  a  wilderness,  and  made 
way  for  them  in  the  hearts  of  the  natives,  so  that  by  them 
they  were  comforted  in  times  of  want  and  distress.  It  was 
by  the  gracious  influences  of  his  Holy  Spirit  that  they  were 
disposed  to  work  righteousness,  and  walk  uprightly  towards 
each  other,  and  towards  the  natives;  in  life  and  conver- 
sation to  manifest  the  excellency  of  the  principles  and  doc- 
trines of  the  Christian  religion  whereby  they  retain  their 
esteem  and  friendship.  Whilst  they  were  laboring  for  the 
necessaries  of  life,  many  of  them  were  fervently  engaged  to 
promote  piety  and  virtue  in  the  earth,  and  to  educate  their 
children  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord. 

If  we  carefully  consider  the  peaceable  measures  pursued  in 
the  first  settlement  of  land,  and  that  freedom  from  the  deso- 
lations of  wars  which  for  a  long  time  we  enjoyed,  we  shall 
find  ourselves  under  strong  obligations  to  the  Almighty,  who, 
when  the  earth  is  so  generally  polluted  with  wickedness, 
gives  us  a  being  in  a  part  so  signally  favored  with  tran- 
quillity and  plenty,  and  in  which  the  glad  tidings  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ  are  so  freely  published  that  we  m.ay  justly  say 
with  the  Psalmist,  "  What  shall  we  render  unto  the  Lord 
for  all  his  benefits  ?  " 

Our  own  real  good,  and  the  good  of  our  posterity,  in  some 
measure  depends  on  the  part  v^e  act,  and  it  nearly  con- 
cerns us  to  try  our  foundations  impartially.  Such  are  the 
different  rewards  of  the  just  and  unjust  in  a  future  state^ 
that  to  attend  diligently  to  the  dictates  of  the  spirit  of  Christ 
to  devote  ourselves  to  his  service,  and  to  engage  fervently  in 
his  cause,  during  our  short  stay  in  this  world,  is  a  choice 
well  becom.ing  a  free,  intelligent  creature.  We  shall  thus 
clearly  see  and  consider  that  the  dealings  of  God  with  man- 
kind, in  a  national  capacity,  as  recorded  in  Holy  Writ,  do 
sufficiently  evidence  the  truth  of  that  saying,  *  It  is  right- 
eousness which  exalteth  a  nation  " ;  and  though  he  doth  not 
at  all  times  suddenly  execute  his  judgments  on  a  sinful 
people  in  this  life,  yet  we  see  in  many  instances  that  when 
"men  follow  lying  vanities  they  forsake  their  own  mercies"; 
and  as  a  proud,  selfish  spirit  prevails  and  spreads  among  a 
people,  so  partial  judgment,  oppression,  discord,  envy,  and 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  241 

confusions  increase,  and  provinces  and  kingdoms  are  made 
to  drink  the  cup  of  adversity  as  a  reward  of  their  own 
doings.  Thus  the  inspired  prophet,  reasoning  with  the  de- 
generated Jews,  saith,  "  Thine  own  wickedness  shall  correct 
thee,  and  thy  backsliding  shall  reprove  thee ;  know,  therefore, 
that  it  is  an  evil  thing  and  bitter  that  thou  hast  forsaken 
the  Lord  thy  God,  and  that  my  fear  is  not  in  thee,  saith  the 
Lord  God  of  Hosts."     (Jeremiah  ii.  19.) 

The  God  of  our  fathers,  who  hath  bestowed  on  us  many; 
benefits,  furnished  a  table  for  us  in  the  wilderness,  and  made 
the  deserts  and  solitary  places  to  rejoice.  He  doth  now 
mercifully  call  upon  us  to  serve  him  more  faithfully.  We 
may  truly  say  with  the  Prophet,  "  It  is  his  voice  which 
crieth  to  the  city,  and  men  of  wisdom  see  his  name.  They 
regard  the  rod,  and  Him  who  hath  appointed  it."  People 
who  look  chiefly  at  things  outward  too  little  consider  the 
original  cause  of  the  present  troubles;  but  they  who  fear 
the  Lord  and  think  often  upon  his  name,  see  and  feel  that 
a  wrong  spirit  is  spreading  amongst  the  inhabitants  of  our 
country;  that  the  hearts  of  many  are  waxed  fat,  and  their 
ears  dull  of  hearing;  that  the  Most  High,  in  his  visitations 
to  us,  instead  of  calling,  lifteth  up  his  voice  and  crieth:  he 
crieth  to  our  country,  and  his  voice  waxeth  louder  and 
louder.  In  former  wars  between  the  English  and  other  na- 
tions, since  the  settlement  of  our  provinces,  the  calamities 
attending  them  have  fallen  chiefly  on  other  places,  but  now; 
of  late  they  have  reached  to  our  borders;  many  of  our 
fellow-subjects  have  suffered  on  and  near  our  frontiers,  some 
have  been  slain  in  battle,  some  killed  in  their  houses,  and 
some  in  their  fields,  some  wounded  and  left  in  great  misery, 
and  others  separated  from  their  wives  and  little  children, 
who  have  been  carried  captives  among  the  Indians.  We 
have  seen  men  and  women  who  have  been  witnesses  o£ 
these  scenes  of  sorrow,  and,  being  reduced  to  want^ 
have  come  to  our  houses  asking  relief.  It  is  not  long 
since  that  many  young  men  in  one  of  these  provinces 
were  drafted,  in  order  to  be  taken  as  soldiers;  some  were 
at  that  time  in  great  distress,  and  had  occasion  to  consider 
that  their  lives  had  been  too  little  conformable  to  the  purity 
and  spirituality  of  that  religion  which  we  profess,  and  found 


242  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

themselves  too  little  acquainted  with  that  inward  humility,  in 
which  true  fortitude  to  endure  hardness  for  the  truth's  sake 
is  experienced.  Many  parents  were  concerned  for  their 
children,  and  in  that  time  of  trial  were  led  to  consider  that 
their  care  to  get  outward  treasure  for  them  had  been  greater 
than  their  care  for  their  settlement  in  that  religion  whicK 
erucifieth  to  the  world,  and  enableth  to  bear  testim.ony  to 
the  peaceable  government  of  the  Messiah.  These  troubles 
are  removed,  and  for  a  time  we  are  released  from  them. 

Let  us  not  forget  that  "  The  Most  High  hath  his  way  in 
the  deep,  in  clouds,  and  in  thick  darkness  " ;  that  it  is  his 
voice  which  crieth  to  the  city  and  to  the  country,  and  O !  that 
these  loud  and  awakening  cries  may  have  a  proper  effect 
upon  us,  that  heavier  chastisement  may  not  become  neces- 
sary! For  though  things,  as  to  the  outward,  may  for  a 
short  time  afford  a  pleasing  prospect,  yet,  while  a  selfish 
spirit,  that  is  not  subject  to  the  cross  of  Christ,  continueth 
to  spread  and  prevail,  there  can  be  no  long  continuance  in 
outward  peace  and  tranquillity.  If  we  desire  an  inheritance 
incorruptible,  and  to  be  at  rest  in  that  state  of  peace  and 
happiness  which  ever  continues;  if  we  desire  in  this  life 
to  dwell  under  the  favor  and  protection  of  that  Almighty 
Being  whose  habitation  is  in  holiness,  whose  ways  are  all 
equal,  and  whose  anger  is  now  kindled  because  of  our  back- 
slidings, — ^let  us  then  awfully  regard  these  beginnings  of  his 
sore  judgm.ents,  and  with  abasement  and  humiliation  turn 
to  him  v\^hom  we  have  offended. 

Contending  with  one  equal  in  strength  is  an  uneasy  ex- 
ercise; but  if  the  Lord  is  become  our  enemy,  if  we  persist 
in  contending  with  him  who  is  om.nipotent,  our  overthrow 
will  be  unavoidable. 

Do  we  feel  an  affectionate  regard  to  posterity?  and  are  we 
employed  to  promote  their  happiness?  Do  our  minds,  in 
things  outward,  look  beyond  our  own  dissolution?  and  are 
we  contriving  for  the  prosperity  of  our  children  after  us? 
Let  us  then,  like  wise  builders,  lay  the  foundation  deep, 
and  by  our  constant  uniform  regard  to  an  inv/ard  piety 
and  virtue  let  them  see  that  we  really  value  it.  Let  us  labor 
in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  that  their  innocent  minds,  while 
young  and  tender,  may  be  preserved  from  corruptions;  that 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  243 

as  they  advance  in  age  they  may  rightly  understand  their 
true  interest,  may  consider  the  uncertainty  of  temporal 
things,  and,  above  all,  have  their  hope  and  confidence  firmly 
settled  in  the  blessing  of  that  Almighty  Being  who  inhabits 
eternity  and  preserves  and  supports  the  world. 

In  all  our  cares  about  worldly  treasures,  let  us  steadily 
bear  in  mind  that  riches  possessed  by  children  who  do  not 
truly  serve  God  are  likely  to  prove  snares  that  may  more 
grievously  entangle  them  in  that  spirit  of  selfishness  and  ex- 
altation which  stands  in  opposition  to  real  peace  and  hap- 
piness, and  renders  those  who  submit  to  the  influence  of  it 
enemies  to  the  cross  of  Christ. 

To  keep  a  watchful  eye  towards  real  objects  of  charity, 
to  visit  the  poor  in  their  lonesome  dwelling-places,  to  comfort 
those  who,  through  the  dispensations  of  Divine  Providence, 
are  in  strait  and  painful  circumstances  in  this  life,  and 
steadily  to  endeavor  to  honor  God  with  our  substance,  from 
a  real  sense  of  the  love  of  Christ  influencing  our  minds,  is 
more  likely  to  bring  a  blessing  to  our  children,  and  will 
afford  more  satisfaction  to  a  Christian  favored  with  plenty, 
than  an  earnest  desire  to  collect  much  wealth  to  leave  behind 
us ;  for,  "here  we  have  no  continuing  city" ;  may  we  therefore 
diligently  "seek  one  that  is  to  come,  whose  builder  and 
maker  is  God." 

"Finally,  brethren,  whatsoever  things  are  true,  whatso- 
ever things  are  just,  whatsoever  things  are  pure,  whatsoever 
things  are  lovely,  whatsoever  things  are  of  good  report,  if 
there  be  any  virtue,  if  there  be  any  praise,  think  on  these 
things,  and  do  them,  and  the  God  of  peace  shall  be  with  you." 

(Signed  by  appointment,  and  on  behalf  of  said  meeting.)' 

Twenty-eighth  eleventh  month. — This  day  I  attended  the 
Quarterly  Meeting  in  Bucks  County.  In  the  meeting  of 
ministers  and  elders  my  heart  was  enlarged  in  the  love  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  favor  of  the  Most  High  was  extended 
to  us  in  that  and  the  ensuing  meeting. 

I  had  conversation  at  my  lodging  with  my  beloved  friend 
Samuel  Eastburn,  who  expressed  a  concern  to  join  in  a  visit 
to  some  Friends  in  that  county  who  .had  negroes,  and  as  I 
had  felt  a  drawing  in  my  mind  to  the  said  work,  I  came 


244  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

home  and  put  things  in  order.  On  nth  of  twelfth 
month  I  went  over  the  river,  and  on  the  next  day  was  at 
Buckingham  Meeting,  where,  through  the  descendings  of 
heavenly  dew,  my  mind  was  comforted  and  drawn  into  a 
near  unity  with  the  flock  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Entering  upon  this  business  appeared  weighty,  and  before 
I  left  home  my  mind  was  often  sad,  under  which  exercise 
I  felt  at  times  the  Holy  Spirit  which  helps  our  infirmities,  and 
through  which  my  prayers  were  at  times  put  up  to  God  in 
private  that  he  would  be  pleased  to  purge  me  from  all  selfish- 
ness, that  I  might  be  strengthened  to  discharge  my  duty 
faithfully,  how  hard  soever  to  the  natural  part.  We  pro- 
ceeded on  the  visit  in  a  weighty  frame  of  spirit,  and  went 
to  the  houses  of  the  most  active  members  who  had  negroes 
throughout  the  county.  Through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord 
my  mind  was  preserved  in  resignation  in  times  of  trial,  and 
though  the  work  was  hard  to  nature,  yet  through  the  strength 
of  that  love  which  is  stronger  than  death,  tenderness  of  heart 
was  often  felt  amongst  us  in  our  visits,  and  we  parted  from 
several  families  with  greater  satisfaction  than  we  expected. 

We  visited  Joseph  White's  family,  he  being  in  England; 
we  had  also  a  family-sitting  at  the  house  of  an  elder  who 
bore  us  company,  and  were  at  Makefield  on  a  first  day:  at 
all  which  times  my  heart  was  truly  thankful  to  the  Lord 
who  was  graciously  pleased  to  renew  his  loving-kindness  to 
us,  his  poor  servants,  uniting  us  together  in  his  work. 

In  the  winter  of  this  year,  the  small-pox  being  in  our 
town,  and  many  being  inoculated,  of  whom  a  few  died,  some 
things  were  opened  in  my  mind,  which  I  wrote  as  follows : — 

The  more  fully  our  lives  are  conformable  to  the  will  of 
God,  the  better  it  is  for  us;  I  have  looked  on  the  small- 
pox as  a  messenger  from  the  Almighty,  to  be  an  assistant  in 
the  cause  of  virtue,  and  to  incite  us  to  consider  whether  we 
employ  our  time  only  in  such  things  as  are  consistent  with 
perfect  wisdom  and  goodness.  Building  houses  suitable  to 
dwell  in,  for  ourselves  and  our  creatures;  preparing  cloth- 
ing suitable  for  the  climate  and  season,  and  food  convenient^ 
are  all  duties  incumbent  on  us.  And  under  these  general 
heads  are  many  branches  of  business  in  which  we  may  ven- 
ture health  and  life,  as  necessity  may  require. 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOFIN  WOOLMAN  245 

This  disease  being  in  a  house,  and  my  business  calling  me 
to  go  near  it,  incites  me  to  consider  whether  this  is  a  real 
indispensable  duty;  whether  it  is  not  in  conformity  to  some 
custom  which  would  be  better  laid  aside,  or,  whether  it  does 
not  proceed  from  too  eager  a  pursuit  after  some  outward 
treasure.  If  the  business  before  me  springs  not  from  a  clear 
understanding  and  a  regard  to  that  use  of  things  which  per- 
fect wisdom  approves,  to  be  brought  to  a  sense  of  it  and 
stopped  in  my  pursuit  is  a  kindness,  for  when  I  proceed  to 
business  without  somx  evidence  of  duty,  I  have  found  by 
experience  that  it  tends  to  weakness. 

If  I  am  so  situated  that  there  appears  no  probability  of 
missing  the  infection,  it  tends  to  make  me  think  whether  my 
manner  of  life  in  things  outward  has  nothing  in  it  which  may 
unfit  my  body  to  receive  this  messenger  in  a  way  the  most 
favorable  to  me.  Do  I  use  food  and  drink  in  no  other  sort 
and  in  no  other  degree  than  was  designed  by  Him  who  gave 
these  creatures  for  our  sustenance?  Do  I  never  abuse  my 
body  by  inordinate  labor,  striving  to  accomplish  some  end 
which  I  have  unwisely  proposed?  Do  I  use  action  enough 
in  some  useful  employ,  or  do  I  sit  too  much  idle  while  some 
persons  who  labor  to  support  me  have  too  great  a  share  of 
it?  If  in  any  of  these  things  I  am  deficient,  to  be  incited  to 
consider  it  is  a  favor  to  me.  Employment  is  necessary  in 
social  life,  and  this  infection,  which  often  proves  mortal, 
incites  me  to  think  whether  these  social  acts  of  mine  are  real 
duties.  If  I  go  on  a  visit  to  the  widows  and  fatherless,  do  I 
go  purely  on  a  principle  of  charity,  free  from  any  selfish 
views?  If  I  go  to  a  religious  meeting  it  puts  me  on  think- 
ing whether  I  go  in  sincerity  and  in  a  clear  sense  of  duty, 
or  whether  it  is  not  partly  in  conformity  to  custom,  or 
partly  from  a  sensible  delight  which  my  animal  spirits  feel 
in  the  company  of  other  people,  and  whether  to  support  my 
reputation  as  a  religious  m.an  has  no  share  in  it. 

Do  affairs  relating  to  civil  society  call  me  near  this  infec- 
tion? If  I  go,  it  is  at  the  hazard  of  my  health  and  life,  and 
it  becomes  me  to  think  seriously  whether  love  to  truth  and 
righteousness  is  the  motive  of  my  attending;  whether  the 
mannner  of  proceeding  is  altogether  equitable,  or  v/hether 
aught  of  narrowness,  party  interest,  respect  to  outward  dig- 


246  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

nities,  names,  or  distinctions  among  men,  do  not  stain  the 
beauty  of  those  assemblies,  and  render  it  doubtful;  in  point 
of  duty,  whether  a  disciple  of  Christ  ought  to  attend  as  a 
member  united  to  the  body  or  not.  Whenever  there  are 
blemishes  which  for  a  series  of  time  remain  such,  that  which 
is  a  means  of  stirring  us  up  to  look  attentively  on  these 
blemishes,  and  to  labor  according  to  our  capacities,  to  have 
health  and  soundness  restored  in  our  country,  we  may  justly 
account  a  kindness  from  our  gracious  Father,  who  appointed 
that  means. 

The  care  of  a  wise  and  good  man  for  his  only  son  is 
inferior  to  the  regard  of  the  great  Parent  of  the  universe 
for  his  creatures.  He  hath  the  command  of  all  the  powers 
and  operations  in  nature,  and  "  doth  not  afflict  willingly,  nor 
grieve  the  children  of  men."  Chastisement  is  intended  for 
instruction,  and  instruction  being  received  by  gentle  chastise- 
ment, greater  calamities  are  prevented.  By  an  earthquake 
hundreds  of  houses  are  sometimes  shaken  down  in  a  few 
minutes,  multitudes  of  people  perish  suddenly,  and  many 
more,  being  crushed  and  bruised  in  the  rdins  of  the  build- 
ings, pine  away  and  die  in  great  misery. 

By  the  breaking  in  of  enraged  merciless  armies,  flourish- 
ing countries  have  been  laid  waste,  great  numbers  of  people 
have  perished  in  a  short  time,  and  many  more  have  been 
pressed  with  poverty  and  grief.  By  the  pestilence,  people 
have  died  so  fast  in  a  city,  that,  through  fear,  grief,  and 
confusion,  those  in  health  have  found  great  difficulty  in 
burying  the  dead,  even  without  coffins.  By  famine,  great 
numbers  of  people  in  some  places  have  been  brought  to  the 
utmost  distress,  and  have  pined  away  from  want  of  the 
necessaries  of  life.  Thus,  when  the  kind  invitations  and 
gentle  chastisements  of  a  gracious  God  have  not  been 
attended  to,  his  sore  judgments  have  at  times  been  poured 
out  upon  people. 

While  some  rules  approved  in  civil  society  and  conform- 
able to  humxan  policy,  so  called,  are  distinguishable  from  the 
purity  of  truth  and  righteousness, — while  many  professing 
the  truth  are  declining  from  that  ardent  love  and  heavenly- 
mindedness  which  was  amongst  the  primitive  followers  of 
Jesus  Christ,  it  is  time  for  us  to  attend  diligently  to  the 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  247 

intent  of  every  chastisement,  and  to  consider  the  most  deep 
and  inward  design  of  them. 

The  Most  High  doth  not  often  speak  with,  an  outward 
voice  to  our  outward  ears,  but  if  we  humbly  meditate  on  his 
perfections,  consider  that  he  is  perfect  wisdom  and  good- 
ness, and  that  to  afflict  his  creatures  to  no  purpose  would 
be  utterly  averse  to  his  nature,  we  shall  hear  and  under- 
stand his  language  both  in  his  gentle  and  more  heavy  chas- 
tisements, and  shall  take  heed  that  we  do  not,  in  the  wisdom; 
of  this  world,  endeavor  to  escape  his  hand  by  means  too 
powerful  for  us. 

Had  he  endowed  men  with  understanding  to  prevent  this 
disease  (the  small-pox)  by  means  which  had  never  proved 
hurtful  nor  mortal,  such  a  discovery  might  be  considered  as 
the  period  of  chastisement  by  this  distemper,  where  that 
knowledge  extended.  But  as  life  and  health  are  his  gifts, 
and  are  not  to  be  disposed  of  in  our  own  wills,  to  take  upon 
us  by  inoculation  when  in  health  a  disorder  of  which  some 
die,  requires  great  clearness  of  knowledge  that  it  is  our 
duty  to  do  so^ 


CHAPTER  Vir 
1760 

Visit,  in  Company  with  Samuel  Eastburn,  to  Long  Island,  Rhode 
Island,  Boston,  etc. — Remarks  on  the  Slave-Trade  at  New- 
port ;  also  on  Lotteries — Some  Observations  on  the  Island  of 
Nantucket. 

lOURTH  month,  1760. — Having  for  some  time  past  felt 
a  sympathy  in  my  mind  with  Friends  eastward,  I 
opened  my  concern  in  our  Monthly  Meeting,  and, 
obtaining  a  certificate,  set  forward  on  the  17th  of  this 
month,  in  company  with  my  beloved  friend  Samuel  Eastburn. 
We  had  meetings  at  Woodbridge,  Rahway,  and  Plainfield, 
and  were  at  their  Monthly  Meeting  of  ministers  and  elders 
in  Rahway.  We  labored  under  some  discouragement,  but 
through  the  invisible  power  of  truth  our  visit  was  made 
reviving  to  the  lowly-minded,  with  whom  I  felt  a  near  unity 
of  spirit,  being  much  reduced  in  my  mind.  We  passed  on 
and  visited  most  of  the  meetings  on  Long  Island.  It  was 
my  concern  from  day  to  day  to  say  neither  more  nor  less 
than  what  the  spirit  of  truth  opened  in  me,  being  jealous 
over  myself  lest  I  should  say  anything  to  make  my  testi- 
mony look  agreeable  to  that  mind  in  people  which  is  not  in 
pure  obedience  to  the  cross  of  Christ. 

The  spring  of  the  ministry  was  often  low,  and  through 
the  subjecting  power  of  truth  we  were  kept  low  with  it; 
from  place  to  place  they  whose  hearts  were  truly  concerned 
for  the  cause  of  Christ  appeared  to  be  comforted  in  our 
labors,  and  though  it  was  in  general  a  time  of  abasement  of 
the  creature,  yet  through  his  goodness  who  is  a  helper  of 
the  poor  we  had  some  truly  edifying  seasons  both  in  meet- 
ings and  in  families  where  we  tarried ;  sometimes  we  found 
strength  to  labor  earnestly  with  the  unfaithful,  especially 

248 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  249 

with  those  whose  station  in  families  or  in  the  Society  was 
such  that  their  example  had  a  powerful  tendency  to  open 
the  way  for  others  to  go  aside  from  the  purity  and  sound- 
ness of  the  blessed  truth. 
At  Jericho,  on  Long  Island,  I  wrote  home  as  follows: — 


24th  of  the  fourth  month,  1760. 

Dearly  beloved  Wife! 

We  are  favored  with  health;  have  been  at  sundry  meet- 
ings in  East  Jersey  and  on  this  island.  My  mind  hath  been 
m-uch  in  an  inward,  watchful  frame  since  I  left  thee,  greatly 
desiring  that  our  proceedings  may  be  singly  in  the  will  of 
our  Heavenly  Father. 

As  the  present  appearance  of  things  is  not  joyous,  I  have 
been  much  shut  up  from  outward  cheerfulness,  remembering 
that  promise,  "  Then  shalt  thou  delight  thyself  in  the  Lord  " ; 
as  this  from  day  to  day  has  been  revived  in  my  memory,  I 
have  considered  that  his  internal  presence  in  our  minds  is  a 
delight  of  all  others  the  most  pure,  and  that  the  honest- 
hearted  not  only  delight  in  this,  but  in  the  effect  of  it  upon 
them.  He  regards  the  helpless  and  distressed,  and  reveals 
his  love  to  his  children  under  affliction,  who  delight  in 
beholding  his  benevolence,  and  in  feeling  Divine  charity  mov- 
ing in  them.  Of  this  I  may  speak  a  little,  for  though  since 
I  left  you  I  have  often  an  engaging  love  and  affection  to- 
wards thee  and  my  daughter,  and  friends  about  home,  and 
going  out  at  this  time,  when  sickness  is  so  great  amongst 
you,  is  a  trial  upon  me;  yet  I  often  remember  there  are 
many  widows  and  fatherless,  many  who  have  poor  tutors, 
many  who  have  evil  examples  before  them,  and  many  whose 
minds  are  in  captivity ;  for  whose  sake  my  heart  is  at  times 
moved  with  compassion,  so  that  I  feel  my  mind  resigned  to 
leave  you  for  a  season,  to  exercise  that  gift  which  the  Lord 
hath  bestowed  on  me,  which  though  small  compared  with 
some,  yet  in  this  I  rejoice,  that  I  feel  love  unfeigned  to- 
wards my  fellow-creatures.  I  recommend  you  to  the  Al- 
mighty, who  I  trust,  cares  for  you,  and  under  a  sense  of  his 
heavenly  love  remain.  Thy  loving  husband, 

J.  W. 


250  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

We  crossed  from  the  east  end  of  Long  Island  to  New 
London,  about  thirty  miles,  in  a  large  open  boat;  while  we 
were  out,  the  wind  rising  high,  the  waves  several  times 
beat  over  us,  so  that  to  me  it  appeared  dangerous,  but  my 
mind  was  at  that  time  turned  to  Him  who  made  and  gov- 
erns the  deep,  and  my  life  v/as  resigned  to  him;  as  he  was 
mercifully  pleased  to  preserve  us  I  had  fresh  occasion  to 
consider  every  day  as  a  day  lent  to  me,  and  felt  a  renewed 
engagement  to  devote  my  time,  and  all  I  had,  to  him  who 
gave  it. 

We  had  five  meetings  in  Narraganset,  and  went  thence  to 
Newport  on  Rhode  Island.  Our  gracious  Father  preserved 
us  in  an  humble  dependence  on  him  through  deep  exercises 
that  were  mortifying  to  the  creaturely  will.  In  several  fami- 
lies in  the.  country  where  we  lodged,  I  felt  an  engagement 
on  my  mind  to  have  a  conference  with  them  in  private, 
concerning  their  slaves;  and  through  Divine  aid  I  was 
favored  to  give  up  thereto.  Though  in  this  concern  I  differ 
from  many  whose  service  in  travelling  is,  I  believe,  greater 
than  mine,  yet  I  do  not  think  hardly  of  them  for  omitting  it ; 
I  do  not  repine  at  having  so  unpleasant  a  task  assigned  me, 
but  look  with  awfulness  to  him  who  appoints  to  his  servants 
their  respective  employments,  and  is  good  to  all  who  serve 
him  sincerely. 

We  got  to  Newport  in  the  evening,  and  on  the  next  day 
visited  two  sick  persons,  with  whom  we  had  comfortable 
sittings,  and  in  the  afternoon  attended  the  burial  of  a  Friend. 
The  next  day  we  were  at  meetings  at  Newport,  in  the  fore- 
noon and  afternoon ;  the  spring  of  the  ministry  was  opened, 
and  strength  was  given  to  declare  the  Word  of  Life  to  the 
people. 

The  day  following  we  went  on  our  journey,  but  the  great 
number  of  slaves  in  these  parts,  and  the  continuance  of  that 
trade  from  thence  to  Guinea,  made  a  deep  impression  on  me, 
and  my  cries  were  often  put  up  to  my  Heavenly  Father  in 
secret,  that  he  would  enable  me  to  discharge  my  duty  faith- 
fully in  such  way  as  he  might  be  pleased  to  point  out  to  me. 

We  took  Swansea,  Freetown,  and  Taunton  in  our  way  to 
Boston,  where  also  we  had  a  meeting;  our  exercise  was 
deep,  and  the  love  of  truth  prevailed,  for  which  I  bless  the 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  251 

tor'd.  We  went  eastward  about  eighty  miles  beyond  Boston, 
taking  meetings,  and  were  in  a  good  degree  preserved  in  an 
humble  dependence  on  that  arm  which  drew  us  out;  and 
though  we  had  some  hard  labor  with  the  disobedient,  by  lay- 
ing things  home  and  close  to  such  as  were  stout  against  the 
truth,  yet  through  the  goodness  of  God  we  had  at  times  to 
partake  of  heavenly  comfort  with  those  who  were  meek,  and 
were  often  favored  to  part  with  Friends  in  the  nearness  of 
true  gospel  fellowship.  We  returned  to  Boston  and  had 
another  comfortable  opportunity  with  Friends  there,  and 
thence  rode  back  a  day's  journey  eastward  of  Boston.  Our 
guide  being  a  heavy  man,  and  the  weather  hot,  my  companion 
and  I  expressed  our  freedom  to  go  on  without  him,  to  whicfi 
he  consented,  and  we  respectfully  took  our  leave  of  him; 
this  we  did  as  believing  the  journey  would  have  been  hard 
to  him  and  his  horse. 

In  visiting  the  meetings  in  those  parts  we  were  meas- 
urably baptized  into  a  feeling  of  the  state  of  the  Society, 
and  in  bowedness  of  spirit  went  to  the  Yearly  Meeting  at 
Newport,  where  we  met  with  John  Storer  from  England, 
Elizabeth  Shipley,  Ann  Gaunt,  Hannah  Foster,  and  Mercy 
Redman,  from  our  parts,  all  ministers  of  the  gospel,  of 
whose  company  I  was  glad.  Understanding  that  a  large 
number  of  slaves  had  been  imported  from  Africa  into  that 
town  and  were  then  on  sale  by  a  member  of  our  Society, 
my  appetite  failed,  and  I  grew  outwardly  weak,  and  had  a 
feeling  of  the  condition  of  Habakkuk,  as  thus  expressed, 
"  When  I  heard,  my  belly  trembled,  my  lips  quivered,  I  trem- 
bled in  myself,  that  I  might  rest  in  the  day  of  trouble."  I 
had  many  cogitations,  and  was  sorely  distressed.  I  was 
desirous  that  Friends  might  petition  the  Legislature  to  use 
their  endeavors  to  discourage  the  future  importation  of 
slaves,  for  I  saw  that  this  trade  was  a  great  evil,  and  tended 
to  multiply  troubles,  and  to  bring  distresses  on  the  people  for 
whose  welfare  my  heart  was  deeply  concerned.  But  I  per- 
ceived several  difficulties  in  regard  to  petitioning,  and  such 
was  the  exercise  of  my  mind  that  I  thought  of  endeavoring 
to  get  an  opportunity  to  speak  a  few  words  in  the  House 
of  Ai.ssembly,  then  sitting  in  town. 

This  exercise  came  upon  me  in  the   afternoon  on  the 


252  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

second  day  of  the  Yearly  Meeting,  and  on  going  to  bed  I 
got  no  sleep  till  my  mind  was  wholly  resigned  thereto.  In 
the  morning  I  inquired  of  a  Friend  how  long  the  Assembly 
was  likely  to  continue  sitting,  who  told  me  it  was  expected 
to  be  prorogued  that  day  or  the  next.  As  I  was  desirous  to 
attend  the  business  of  the  meeting,  and  perceived  the  Assem- 
bly was  likely  to  separate  before  the  business  was  over,  after 
considerable  exercise,  humbly  seeking  to  the  Lord  for  in- 
struction, my  mind  settled  to  attend  on  the  business  of  the 
meeting;  on  the  last  day  of  which  I  had  prepared  a  short 
essay  of  a  petition  to  be  presented  to  the  Legislature,  if  way 
opened.  And  being  informed  that  there  were  some  appointed 
by  that  Yearly  Meeting  to  speak  with  those  in  authority  on 
cases  relating  to  the  Society,  I  opened  my  mind  to  several 
of  them,  and  showed  them  the  essay  I  had  made,  and  after- 
wards I  opened  the  case  in  the  meeting  for  business,  in  sub- 
stance as  follows: — 

"  I  have  been  under  a  concern  for  some  time  on  account 
of  the  great  number  of  slaves  which  are  imported  into  this 
colony.  I  am  aware  that  it  is  a  tender  point  to  speak  to, 
but  apprehend  I  am  not  clear  in  the  sight  of  Heaven  with- 
out doing  so.  I  have  prepared  an  essay  of  a  petition  tO'  be 
presented  to  the  Legislature,  if  way  open;  and  what  I  have 
to  propose  to  this  meeting  is  that  some  Friends  may  be 
named  to  withdraw  and  look  over  it,  and  report  whether  they 
believe  it  suitable  to  be  read  in  the  meeting.  If  they  should 
think  well  of  reading  it,  it  will  remain  for  the  meeting  to 
consider  whether  to  take  any  further  notice  of  it,  as  a  meet- 
ing, or  not."  After  a  short  conference  some  Friends  went 
out,  and,  looking  over  it,  expressed  their  willingness  to 
have  it  read,  which  being  done,  many  expressed  their  unity 
with  the  proposal,  and  some  signified  that  to  have  the  sub- 
jects of  the  petition  enlarged  upon,  and  signed  out  of  meet- 
ing by  such  as  were  free,  would  be  more  suitable  than  to 
do  it  there.  Though  I  expected  at  first  that  if  it  was  done  it 
would  be  in  that  way,  yet  such  was  the  exercise  of  my  mind 
that  to  move  it  in  the  hearing  of  Friends  when  assembled 
appeared  to  me  as  a  duty,  for  my  heart  yearned  towards  the 
inhabitants  of  these  parts,  believing  that  by  this  trade  there 
had  been  an  increase  of  inquietude  amongst  them,  and  way 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  253 

had  been  made  for  the  spreading  of  a  spirit  opposite  to  that 
meekness  and  humility  which  is  a  sure  resting-place  for  the 
soul ;  and  that  the  continuance  of  this  trade  would  not  only- 
render  their  healing  more  difficult,  but  would  increase  their 
malady. 

Having  proceeded  thus  far,  I  felt  easy  to  leave  the  essay 
amongst  Friends,  for  them  to  proceed  in  it  as  they  believed 
best.  And  now  an  exercise  revived  in  my  mind  in  relation 
to  lotteries,  which  were  common  in  those  parts.  I  had  men- 
tioned the  subject  in  a  former  sitting  of  this  meeting,  when 
arguments  were  used  in  favor  of  Friends  being  held  excused 
who  were  only  concerned  in  such  lotteries  as  were  agreeable 
to  law.  And  now,  on  moving  it  again,  it  was  opposed  as 
before ;  but  the  hearts  of  some  solid  Friends  appeared  to  be 
united  to  discourage  the  practice  amongst  their  members, 
and  the  matter  was  zealously  handled  by  some  on  both  sides. 
In  this  debate  it  appeared  very  clear  to  me  that  the  spirit  of 
lotteries  was  a  spirit  of  selfishness,  which  tended  to  confuse 
and  darken  the  understanding,  and  that  pleading  for  it  in 
our  meetings,  which  were  set  apart  for  the  Lord's  work, 
was  not  right.  In  the  heat  of  zeal,  I  made  reply  to  what 
an  ancient  Friend  said,  and  when  I  sat  down  I  saw  that  my 
words  were  not  enough  seasoned  with  charity.  After  this  I 
spoke  no  more  on  the  subject.  At  l,ength  a  minute  was 
made,  a  copy  of  which  was  to  be  sent  to  their  several  Quar- 
terly Meetings,  inciting  Friends  to  labor  to  discourage  the 
practice  amongst  all  professing  with  us. 

Some  time  after  this  minute  was  made  I  remained  uneasy 
with  the  manner  of  my  speaking  to  the  ancient  Friend,  and 
could  not  see  my  way  clear  to  conceal  my  uneasiness,  though 
I  was  concerned  that  I  might  say  nothing  to  weaken  the 
cause  in  which  I  had  labored.  After  some  close  exercise 
and  hearty  repentence  for  not  having  attended  closely  to 
the  safe  guide,  I  stood  up,  and,  reciting  the  passage,  ac- 
quainted Friends  that  though  I  durst  not  go  from  what  I 
had  said  as  to  the  matter,  yet  I  was  uneasy  with  the  man- 
ner of  my  speaking,  believing  milder  language  would  have 
been  better.  As  this  was  uttered  in  some  degree  of  crea- 
turely  abasement  after  a  warm  debate,  it  appeared  to  have  a 
good  savor  amongst  us. 


254  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

The  Yearly  Meeting  being  now  over,  there  yet  remained 
on  my  mind  a  secret  though  heavy  exercise,  in  regard  to 
some  leading  active  miembers  about  Newport,  who  were  in 
the  practice  of  keeping  slaves.  This  I  mentioned  to  two 
ancient  Friends  who  came  out  of  the  country,  and  proposed 
to  them,  if  way  opened,  to  have  some  conversation  with 
those  members.  One  of  them  and  I,  having  consulted  one 
of  the  most  noted  elders  who  had  slaves,  he,  in  a  respectful 
manner,  encouraged  me  to  proceed  to  clear  myself  of  what 
lay  upon  me.  Near  the  beginning  of  the  Yearly  Meeting,  I 
had  had  a  private  conference  with  this  said  elder  and  his 
wife,  concerning  their  slaves,  so  that  the  way  seemed  clear 
to  me  to  advise  with  him  about  the  m.anner  of  proceeding. 
I  told  him  I  was  free  to  have  a  conference  with  them  all 
together  in  a  private  house;  or  if  he  thought  they  would 
take  it  unkind  to  be  asked  to  come  together,  and  to  be  spoken 
with  in  the  hearing  of  one  another,  I  was  free  to  spend  soms 
time  amongst  them,  and  to  visit  them  all  in  their  own  houses. 
He  expressed  his  liking  to  the  first  proposal,  not  doubting 
their  willingness  to  come  together;  and,  as  I  proposed  a 
visit  to  only  ministers,  elders,  and  overseers,  he  named  some 
others  whom  he  desired  might  also  be  present.  A  careful 
messenger  being  wanted  to  acquaint  them  in  a  proper  man- 
ner, he  offered  to  go  to  all  their  houses,  to  open  the  matter 
to  them, — and  did  so.  About  the  eighth  hour  the  next 
morning  we  met  in  the  meeting-house  chamber,  the  last- 
mentioned  country  Friend,  my  companion,  and  John  Storer 
being  with  us.  After  a  short  time  of  retirement,  I  acquainted 
them  with  the  steps  I  had  taken  in  procuring  that  meeting, 
and  opened  the  concern  I  was  under,  and  we  then  proceeded' 
to  a  free  conference  upon  the  subject.  My  exercise  was 
heavy,  and  I  was  deeply  bowed  in  spirit  before  the  Lord,  who 
was  pleased  to  favor  with  the  seasoning  virtue  of  truth,  which 
wrought  a  tenderness  amongst  us;  and  the  subject  was 
mutually  handled  in  a  calm  and  peaceable  spirit.  At  length, 
feeling  my  mind  released  from  the  burden  which  I  had  been 
under,  I  took  my  leave  of  them  in  a  good  degree  of  satis- 
faction; and  by  the  tenderness  they  manifested  in  regard 
to  the  practice,  and  the  concern  several  of  them  expressed  in 
relation  to  the  manner  of  disposing  of  their  negroes  after 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  255 

tJieir  decease,  I  believed  that  a  good  exercise  was  spreading 
amongst  them ;  and  I  am  humbly  thankful  to  God,  who  sup- 
ported my  mind  and  preserved  me  in  a  good  degree  of 
resignation  through  these  trials. 

Thou  who  sometimes  travellest  in  the  work  of  the  minis- 
try, and  art  made  very  welcome  by  thy  friends,  seest  many 
tokens  of  their  satisfaction  in  having  thee  for  their  guest. 
It  is  good  for  thee  to  dwell  deep,  that  thou  mayest  feel  and 
understand  the  spirits  of  people.  If  we  believe  truth  points 
towards  a  conference  on  some  subjects  in  a  private  way,  it  is 
needful  for  us  to  take  heed  that  their  kindness,  their  free- 
dom, and  affability  do  not  hinder  us  from  the  Lord's  work, 
I  have  experienced  that,  in  the  midst  of  kindness  and  smooth 
conduct,  to  speak  close  and  home  to  them  who  entertain  us, 
on  points  that  relate  to  outward  interest,  is  hard  labor. 
Sometimes,  when  I  have  felt  truth  lead  towards  it,  I  have 
found  myself  disqualified  by  a  superficial  friendship ;  and  as 
the  sense  thereof  hath  abased  me,  and  my  cries  have  been  to 
the  Lord,  so  I  have  been  humbled  and  made  content  to  appear 
weak,  or  as  a  fool  for  his  sake;  and  thus  a  door  hath  been 
opened  to  enter  upon  it.  To  attempt  to  do.  the  Lord's  work 
in  our  own  way,  and  to  speak  of  that  which  is  the  burden 
of  the  Word,  in  a  way  easy  to  the  natural  part,  doth  not 
reach  the  bottom  of  the  disorder.  To  see  the  failings  of 
our  friends,  and  think  hard  of  them,  without  opening  that 
which  we  ought  to  open,  and  still  carry  a  face  of  friendship, 
tends  to  undermine  the  foundation  of  true  unity.  The  office 
of  a  minister  of  Christ  is  weighty.  And  they  who  now  go 
forth  as  watchmen  have  need  to  be  steadily  on  their  guard 
against  the  snares  of  prosperity  and  an  outside  friendship. 

After  the  Yearly  Meeting  we  were  at  meetings  at  New- 
town, Cushnet,  Long  Plain,  Rochester,  and  Dartmouth. 
From  thence  we  sailed  for  Nantucket,  in  company  with  Ann 
Gaunt,  Mercy  Redman,  and  several  other  Friends.  The 
wind  being  slack  we  only  reached  Tarpawling  Cove  the  first 
day;  where,  going  on  shore,  we  found  room  in  a  public- 
house,  and  beds  for  a  few  of  us, — the  rest  slept  on  the  floor. 
We  went  on  board  again  about  break  of  day,  and  though 
the  wind  was  small,  we  were  favored  to  come  within  about 
four  miles  of  Nantucket;   and  then  about  ten  of  us  got  into 


256  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

our  toat  and  rowed  to  the  harbor  before  dark;  a  large  boat 
went  off  and  brought  in  the  rest  of  the  passengers  about 
midnight.  The  next  day  but  one  was  their  Yearly  Meeting, 
which  held  four  days,  the  last  of  which  was  their  Monthly 
Meeting  for  business.  We  had  a  laborious  time  amongst 
them;  our  minds  were  closely  exercised,  and  I  believe  it 
was  a  time  of  great  searching  of  heart.  The  longer  I  was 
on  the  Island  the  more  I  became  sensible  that  there  was  a 
considerable  number  of  valuable  Friends  there,  though  an 
evil  spirit,  tending  to  strife,  had  been  at  work  amongst  them. 
I  was  cautious  of  making  any  visits  except  as  my  mind  was 
particularly  drawn  to  them;  and  in  that  way  we  had  some 
sittings  in  Friends'  houses,  where  the  heavenly  wing  was  -at 
times  spread  over  us,  to  our  mutual  comfort.  My  beloved 
companion  had  very  acceptable  service  on  this  island. 

When  meeting  was  over  we  all  agreed  to  sail  the  next 
day  if  the  weather  was  suitable  and  we  were  well ;  and  being 
called  up  the  latter  part  of  the  night,  about  fifty  of  us  went 
on  board  a  vessel;  but,  the  wind  changing,  the  seamen 
thought  best  to  stay  in  the  harbor  till  it  altered,  so  we 
returned  on  shore.  Feeling  clear  as  to  any  further  visits, 
I  spent  my  time  in  my  chamber,  chiefly  alone;  and  after 
some  hours,  my  heart  being  filled  with  the  spirit  of  supplica- 
tion, miy  prayers  and  tears  were  poured  out  before  my  Heav- 
enly Father  for  his  help  and  instruction  in  the  manifold 
difficulties  which  attended  me  in  life.  While  I  was  waiting 
upon  the  Lord,  there  came  a  m.essenger  from  the  women 
Friends  who  lodged  at  another  house,  desiring  to  confer  with 
us  about  appointing  a  meeting,  which  to  me  appeared  weighty, 
as  we  had  been  at  so  many  before;  but  after  a  short  con- 
ference, and  advising  with  some  elderly  Friends,  a  meeting 
was  appointed,  in  which  the  Friend  who  first  moved  it,  and 
who  had  been  much  shut  up  before,  was  largely  opened  in 
the  love  of  the  gospel.  The  next  morning  about  break  of 
day  going  again  on  board  the  vessel,  we  reached  Falmouth 
on  the  Main  before  night,  where  our  horses  being  brought, 
we  proceeded  towards  Sandwich  Quarterly  Meeting. 

Being  two  days  in  going  to  Nantucket,  and  having  been 
there  once  before,  I  observed  many  shoals  in  their  bay,  which 
make  sailing  more  dangerous,  especially  in  stormy  nights; 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  257 

also,  that  a  great  shoal,  which  encloses  their  harbor,  prevents 
the  entrance  of  sloops  except  when  the  tide  is  up.  Waiting 
without  for  the  rising  of  the  tide  is  sometimes  hazardous 
in  storms,  and  by  waiting  within  they  sometimes  miss  a  fair 
wind.  I  took  notice  that  there  was  on  that  small  island  a 
great  number  of  inhabitants,  and  the  soil  not  very  fertile,  the 
timber  being  so  gone  that  for  vessels,  fences,  and  firewood, 
they  depend  chiefly  on  buying  from  the  Main,  for  the  cost 
whereof,  with  most  of  their  other  expenses,  they  depend 
principally  upon  the  whale  fishery.  I  considered  that  as 
towns  grew  larger,  and  lands  near  navigable  waters  were 
more  cleared,  it  would  require  more  labor  to  get  timber  and 
wood.  I  understood  that  the  whales,  being  much  hunted  and 
sometimes  wounded  and  not  killed,  grow  more  shy  and 
difficult  to  come  at.  I  considered  that  the  formation  of  the 
earth,  the  seas,  the  islands,  bays,  and  rivers,  the  motions 
of  the  winds,  and  great  waters,  which  cause  bars  and  shoals 
in  particular  places,  were  all  the  works  of  Him  who  is  per- 
fect wisdom  and  goodness;  and  as  people  attend  to  his 
heavenly  instruction,  and  put  their  trust  in  him,  he  provides 
for  them  in  all  parts  where  he  gives  them  a  being;  and 
as  in  this  visit  to  these  people  I  felt  a  strong  desire  for 
their  firm  establishment  on  the  sure  foundation,  besides 
what  was  said  more  publicly,  I  was  concerned  to  speak  with 
the  women  Friends  in  their  Monthly  Meeting  of  business, 
many  being  present,  and  in  the  fresh  spring  of  pure  love  to 
open  before  them  the  advantage,  both  inwardly  and  out- 
wardly, of  attending  singly  to  the  pure  guidance  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  therein  to  educate  their  children  in  true  humility 
and  the  disuse  of  all  superfluities.  I  reminded  them  of  the 
difficulties  their  husbands  and  sons  were  frequently  exposed 
to  at  sea,  and  that  the  more  plain  and  simple  their  way  of 
living  was  the  less  need  there  would  be  of  running  great 
hazards  to  support  them.  I  also  encouraged  the  young 
women  to  continue  their  neat,  decent  way  of  attending  them- 
selves on  the  affairs  of  the  house;  showing,  as  the  way 
opened,  that  where  people  were  truly  humble,  used  themselves 
to  business,  and  were  content  with  a  plain  way  of  life,  they 
had  ever  had  more  true  peace  and  calmness  of  mind  than  they 
who,  aspiring  to  greatness  and  outward  show,  have  grasped 

9  HC— Vol.  1 


258  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

hard  for  an  income  to  support  themselves  therein.  And  as  I 
observed  they  had  so  few  or  no  slaves,  I  had  to  encourage 
them  to  be  content  without  them,  making  mention  of  the 
numerous  troubles  and  vexations  which  frequently  attended 
the  minds  of  the  people  who  depend  on  slaves  to  do 
their  labor. 

We  attended  the  Quarterly  Meeting  at  Sandwich,  in  com- 
pany with  Ann  Gaunt  and  Mercy  Redman,  which  was  pre- 
ceded by  a  Monthly  Meeting,  and  in  the  whole  held  three 
days.  We  were  in  various  ways  exercised  amongst  them, 
in  gospel  love,  according  to  the  several  gifts  bestowed  on 
us,  and  were  at  times  overshadowed  with  the  virtue  of  truth, 
to  the  comfort  of  the  sincere  and  stirring  up  of  the  negligent. 
Here  we  parted  with  Ann  and  Mercy,  and  went  to  Rhode 
Island,  taking  one  meeting  in  our  way,  which  was  a  satis- 
factory time.  Reaching  Newport  the  evening  before  their 
Quarterly  Meeting,  we  attended  it,  and  after  that  had  a 
meeting  with  our  young  people,  separated  from  those  of 
other  societies.  We  went  through  much  labor  in  this  town; 
and  now,  in  taking  leave  of  it,  though  I  felt  close  inward  ex- 
ercise to  the  last,  I  found  inward  peace,  and  was  in  some 
degree  comforted  in  a  belief  that  a  good  number  remiain  in 
that  place  who  retain  a  sense  of  truth,  and  that  there  are 
some  young  people  attentive  to  the  voice  of  the  Heavenly 
Shepherd.  The  last  meeting,  in  which  Friends  from  the 
several  parts  of  the  quarter  came  together,  was  a  select 
meeting,  and  through  the  renewed  manifestation  of  the 
Father's  love  the  hearts  of  the  sincere  were  united  together. 

The  poverty  of  spirit  and  inward  weakness,  with  which 
I  was  much  tried  the  fore  part  of  this  journey,  has  of  late 
appeared  to  me  a  dispensation  of  kindness.  Appointing 
meetings  never  appeared  more  weighty  to  me,  and  I  was  led 
in-to  a  deep  search,  whether  in  all  things  my  mind  was  re- 
signed to  the  will  of  God;  often  querying  with  myself  what 
should  be  the  cause  of  such  inward  poverty,  and  greatly 
desiring  that  no  secret  reserve  in  my  heart  might  hinder 
my  access  to  the  Divine  fountain.  In  these  humbling  times 
I  was  made  watchful,  and  excited  to  attend  to  the  secret 
movings  of  the  heavenly  principle  in  my  mind,  which  pre- 
pared the  way  to  some  duties  that  in  more  easy  and  pros- 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  259 

perous  times  as  to  the  outward,  I  believe  I  should  have  been 
in  danger  of  omitting. 

From  Newport  we  went  to  Greenwich,  Shanticut,  and 
Warwick,  and  were  helped  to  labor  amongst  Friends  in  the 
love  of  our  gracious  Redeemer.  Afterwards,  accompanied  by 
our  friend  John  Casey  from  Newport,  we  rode  through  Con- 
necticut to  Oblong,  visited  the  meetings  in  those  parts,  and 
thence  proceeded  to  the  Quarterly  Meeting  at  Ryewoods. 
Through  the  gracious  extendings  of  Divine  help,  we  had 
some  seasoning  opportunities  in  those  places.  We  also 
visited  Friends  at  New  York  and  Flushing,  and  thence  to 
Rahway.  Here  our  roads  parting,  I  took  leave  of  my  be- 
loved companion  and  true  yokemate  Samuel  Eastburn,  and 
reached  home  the  loth  of  eighth  month,  where  I  found  my 
family  well.  For  the  favors  and  protection  of  the  Lord, 
both  inward  and  outward,  extended  to  me  in  this  journey, 
my  heart  is  humbled  in  grateful  acknowledgments,  and  I 
find  renewed  desires  to  dwell  and  walk  in  resignedness  be- 
fore him. 


CHAPTER  VIII 
1761,  1762 

Visits  Pennsylvania,  Shrewsbury,  and  Squan — Publishes  the  Second 
Part  of  his  Considerations  on  keeping  Negroes — The  Grounds 
of  his  appearing  in  some  Respects  singular  in  his  Dress — Visit 
to  the  Families  of  Friends  of  Ancocas  and  Mount  Holly  Meet- 
ings— Visits  to  the  Indians  at  Wehaloosing  on  the  River 
Susquehanna. 

"AVING  felt  my  mind  drawn  towards  a  visit  to  a  few 
meetings  in  Pennsylvania,  I  was  very  desirous  to 
be  rightly  instructed  as  to  the  time  of  setting  off.  On 
the  loth  of  the  fifth  month,  1761,  being  the  first  day  of  the 
week,  I  went  to  Haddonfield  Meeting,  concluding  to  seek  for 
heavenly  instruction,  and  come  home,  or  go  on  as  I  might 
then  believe  best  for  me,  and  there  through  the  springing 
up  of  pure  love  I  felt  encouragement,  and  so  crossed  the 
river.  In  this  visit  I  was  at  two  quarterly  and  three  monthly 
meetings,  and  in  the  love  of  truth  I  felt  my  way  open  to 
labor  with  some  noted  Friends  who  kept  negroes.  As  I  was 
favored  to  keep  to  the  root,  and  endeavor  to  discharge  what 
I  believed  was  required  of  me,  I  found  inward  peace  therein, 
from  time  to  time,  and  thankfulness  of  heart  to  the  Lord, 
who  was  graciously  pleased  to  be  a  guide  to  me. 

Eighth  month,  1761. — Having  felt  drawings  in  my  mind 
to  visit  Friends  in  and  about  Shrewsbury,  I  went  there,  and 
was  at  their  Monthly  Meeting,  and  their  first-day  meeting; 
I  had  also  a  meeting  at  Squan,  and  another  at  Squanquam, 
and,  as  way  opened,  had  conversation  with  some  noted 
Friends  concerning  their  slaves.  I  returned  home  in  a 
thankful  sense  of  the  goodness  of  the  Lord. 

From  the  concern  I  felt  growing  in  me  for  some  years, 
I  wrote  part  the  second  of  a  work  entitled  "  Considerations 
on  keeping  Negroes,"  which  was  printed  this  year,   1762. 

260 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  261 

When  the  overseers  of  the  press  had  done  with  it,  they 
offered  to  get  a  number  printed,  to  be  paid  for  out  of  the 
Yearly  Meeting's  stock,  to  be  given  away ;  but  I  being  most 
easy  to  publish  it  at  my  own  expense,  and  offering  my 
reasons,  they  appeared  satisfied. 

This  stock  is  the  contribution  of  the  members  of  our  re- 
ligious society  in  general,  among  whom  are  some  who  keep 
negroes,  and,  being  inclined  to  continue  them  in  slavery,  are 
not  likely  to  be  satisfied  with  such  books  being  spread  among 
a  people,  especially  at  their  own  expense,  many  of  whose 
slaves  are  taught  to  read,  and  such,  receiving  them  as  a 
gift,  often  conceal  them.  But  as  they  who  make  a  purchase 
generally  buy  that  which  they  have  a  mind  for,  I  be- 
lieved it  best  to  sell  them,  expecting  by  that  means  they 
would  more  generally  be  read  with  attention.  Adver- 
tisements were  signed  by  order  of  the  overseers  of  the 
press,  and  directed  to  be  read  in  the  Monthly  Meetings  of 
business  within  our  own  Yearly  Meeting,  informing  where 
the  books  were,  and  that  the  price  was  no  more  than  the 
cost  of  printing  and  binding  them.  Many  were  taken  off 
in  our  parts;  some  I  sent  to  Virginia,  some  to  New  York, 
some  to  my  acquaintance  at  Newport,  and  some  I  kept,  in- 
tending to  give  part  of  them  away,  where  there  appeared  a 
prospect  of  service. 

In  my  youth  I  was  used  to  hard  labor,  and  though  I  was 
m.iddling  healthy,  yet  my  nature  was  not  fitted  to  endure 
so  much  as  many  others.  Being  often  weary,  I  was  pre- 
pared to  sympathize  with  those  whose  circumstances  in  life, 
as  free  men,  required  constant  labor  to  answer  the  demands 
of  their  creditors,  as  well  as  with  others  under  oppression. 
In  the  uneasiness  of  body  which  I  have  many  times  felt  by 
too  much  labor,  not  as  a  forced  but  a  voluntary  oppression, 
I  have  often  been  excited  to  think  on  the  original  cause  of 
that  oppression  which  is  imposed  on  many  in  the  world.  The 
latter  part  of  the  time  wherein  I  labored  on  our  plantation, 
my  heart,  through  the  fresh  visitations  of  heavenly  love, 
being  often  tender,  and  my  leisure  time  being  frequently 
spent  in  reading  the  life  and  doctrines  of  our  blessed  Re- 
deemer, the  account  of  the  sufferings  of  martyrs,  and  the 
history  of  the  first  rise  of  our  Society,  a  belief  was  grad- 


262  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

ualiy  settled  in  my  mind,  that  if  such  as  had  great  estates 
generally  lived  in  that  humility  and  plainness  which  belong 
to  a  Christian  life,  and  laid  much  easier  rents  and  interests 
on  their  lands  and  moneys,  and  thus  led  the  way  to  a  right 
use  of  things,  so  great  a  number  of  people  might  be  em- 
ployed in  things  useful,  that  labor  both  for  men  and  other 
creatures  would  need  to  be  no  more  than  an  agreeable  em- 
ploy, and  divers  branches  of  business,  which  serve  chiefly 
to  please  the  natural  inclinations  of  our  minds,  and  which 
at  present  seem  necessary  to  circulate  that  v/ealth  which 
some  gather,  might,  in  this  way  of  pure  wisdom,  be  dis- 
continued. As  I  have  thus  considered  these  things,  a  query 
at  times  hath  arisen:  Do  I,  in  all  my  proceedings,  keep  to 
that  use  of  things  which  is  agreeable  to  universal  righteous- 
ness ?  And  then  there  hath  some  degree  of  sadness  at  times 
eome  over  me,  because  I  accustomed  myself  to  some  things 
which  have  occasioned  more  labor  than  I  believe  Divine 
wisdom  intended  for  us. 

From  my  early  acquaintance  with  truth  I  have  often  felt 
an  inward  distress,  occasioned  by  the  striving  of  a  spirit  in 
me  against  the  operation  of  the  heavenly  principle;  and  in 
this  state  I  have  been  affected  with  a  sense  of  my  own 
wretchedness,  and  in  a  mourning  condition  have  felt  earnest 
longings  for  that  Divine  help  which  brings  the  soul  into  true 
liberty.  Sometimes,  on  retiring  into  private  places,  the  spirit 
of  supplication  hath  been  given  me,  and  under  a  heavenly 
covering  I  have  asked  my  gracious  Father  to  give  me  a 
heart  in  all  things  resigned  to  the  direction  of  his  wisdom; 
in  uttering  language  like  this,  the  thought  of  my  wearing 
hats  and  garments  dyed  with  a  dye  hurtful  to  them,  has 
made  lasting  impression  on  me. 

In  visiting  people  of  note  in  the  Society  who  had  slaves, 
and  laboring  with  them  in  brotherly  love  on  that  account, 
I  have  seen,  and  the  sight  has  affected  me,  that  a  conformity 
to  some  customs  distinguishable  from  pure  wisdom  has  en- 
tangled many,  and  that  the  desire  of  gain  to  support  these 
©ustoms  has  greatly  opposed  the  work  of  truth.  Sometimes 
when  the  prospect  of  the  work  before  me  has  been  such  that 
in  bowedness  of  spirit  I  have  been  drawn  into  retired  places, 
and  have  besought  the  Lord  with  tears  that  he  would  take 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  263 

me  wholly  under  his  direction,  and  show  me  the  way  in 
which  I  ought  to  walk,  it  hath  revived  with  strength  of  con- 
viction that  if  I  would  be  his  faithful  servant  I  must  in  all 
things  attend  to  his  wisdom,  and  be  teachable,  and  so  cease 
from  all  customs  contrary  thereto,  however  used  among  re- 
ligious people. 

As  he  is  the  perfection  of  power,  of  wisdom,  and  of  good- 
ness, so  I  believe  he  hath  provided  that  so  much  labor  shall 
be  necessary  for  men's  support  in  this  world  as  would,  being 
rightly  divided,  be  a  suitable  employment  of  their  time;  and 
that  we  cannot  go  into  superfluities,  or  grasp  after  wealth 
in  a  way  contrary  to  his  wisdom,  without  having  connection 
with  some  degree  of  oppression,  and  with  that  spirit  which 
leads  to  self-exaltation  and  strife,  and  which  frequently 
brings  calamities  on  countries  by  parties  contending  about 
their  claims. 

Being  thus  fully  convinced,  and  feeling  an  increasing  de- 
sire to  live  in  the  spirit  of  peace,  I  have  often  been  sorrow- 
fully affected  with  thinking  on  the  unquiet  spirit  in  which 
wars  are  generally  carried  on,  and  with  the  miseries  of  many 
of  my  fellow-creatures  engaged  therein;  some  suddenly  de- 
stroyed ;  some  wounded,  and  after  much  pain  remaining  crip- 
ples; some  deprived  of  all  their  outward  substance  and  re- 
duced to  want;  and  some  carried  into  captivity.  Thinking 
often  on  these  things,  the  use  of  hats  and  garments  dyed 
with  a  dye  hurtful  to  them,  and  wearing  more  clothes  in 
summ.er  than  are  useful,  grew  more  uneasy  to  m^e,  believing 
them  to  be  customs  which  have  not  their  foundation  in  pure 
wisdom.  The  apprehension  of  being  singular  from  my  be- 
loved friends  was  a  strait  upon  me,  and  thus  I  continued 
in  the  use  of  some  things  contrary  to  my  judgment. 

On  the  31st  of  fifth  month,  1761,  I  was  taken  ill  of  a 
fever,  and  after  it  had  continued  near  a  week  I  was  in  great 
distress  of  body.  One  day  there  was  a  cry  raised  in  me  that 
I  might  understand  the  cause  of  my  affliction,  and  im- 
prove under  it,  and  my  conformity  to  some  customs  which 
I  believed  were  not  right  was  brought  to  my  remembrance. 
In  the  continuance  of  this  exercise  I  felt  all  the  powers  in 
me  yield  themselves  up  into  the  hands  of  Him  who  gave  me 
being,  and  was  made  thankful  that  he  had  taken  hold  of  me 


264  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

by  his  chastisements.  Feeling  the  necessity  of  fttftH^  puri- 
fying, there  was  now  no  desire  in  me  for  health  until  the 
de:sign  of  my  correction  was  answered.  Thus  I  lay  in  abase- 
ment and  brokenness  of  spirit,  and  as  I  felt  a  sinking  down 
into  a  calm  resignation,  so  I  felt,  as  in  an  instant,  an  inward 
healing  in  my  nature,  and  from  that  time  forward  1 
grew  better. 

Though  my  mind  was  thus  settled  in  relation  to  hurtful 
dyes,  I  felt  easy  to  wear  m.y  garments  heretofore  made,  and 
continued  to  do  so  about  nine  months.  Then  I  thought  of 
getting  a  hat  the  natural  color  of  the  fur,  but  the  apprehen- 
sion of  being  looked  upon  as  one  affecting  singularity  felt 
uneasy  to  me.  Here  I  had  occasion  to  consider  that  things, 
though  small  in  themselves,  being  clearly  enjoined  by  Divine 
authority,  become  great  things  to  us;  and  I  trusted  that  the 
Lord  would  support  me  in  the  trials  that  might  attend  singu- 
larity, so  long  as  singularity  was  only  for  his  sake.  On 
this  account  I  was  under  close  exercise  of  mind  in  the  time 
of  our  General  Spring  Meeting,  1762,  greatly  desiring  to  be 
rightly  directed;  when,  being  deeply  bowed  in  spirit  before 
the  Lord,  I  was  made  willing  to  submit  to  what  I  appre- 
hended was  required  of  me,  and  when  I  returned  home  got 
a  hat  of  the  natural  color  of  the  fur. 

In  attending  meetings  this  singularity  was  a  trial  to  me, 
and  more  especially  at  this  time,  as  white  hats  were  used 
by  some  who  were  fond  of  following  the  changeable  modes 
of  dress,  and  as  some  Friends  who  knew  not  from  what 
motives  I  wore  it  grew  shy  of  me,  I  felt  my  way  for  a  time 
shut  up  in  the  exercise  of  the  ministry.  In  this  condition, 
my  mind  being  turned  toward  my  Heavenly  Father  with 
fervent  cries  that  I  might  be  preserved  to  walk  before  him 
in  the  meekness  of  wisdom,  my  heart  was  often  tender 
in  meetings,  and  I  felt  an  inward  consolation  which  to  me 
was  very  precious  under  these  difficulties. 

I  had  several  dyed  garments  fit  for  use  which  I  believed 
it  best  to  wear  till  I  had  occasion  for  new  ones.  Some 
Friends  were  apprehensive  that  my  wearing  such  a  hat 
savored  of  an  affected  singularity;  those  who  spoke  with  me 
in  a  friendly  way  I  generally  informed,  in  a  few  words,  that 
I  believed  my  wearing  it  was  not  in  my  own  will.    I  had  at 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  26S 

times  been  sensible  that  a  superficial  friendship  had  been 
dangerous  to  me;  and  many  Friends  being  now  uneasy  with 
me,  I  had  an  inclination  to  acquaint  some  with  the  manner 
of  my  being  led  into  these  things ;  yet  upon  a  deeper  thought 
I  was  for  a  time  most  easy  to  omit  it,  believing  the  present 
dispensation  was  profitable,  and  trusting  that  if  I  kept  my 
place  the  Lord  in  his  own  time  would  open  the  hearts  of 
Friends  towards  me.  I  have  since  had  cause  to  admire  his 
goodness  and  loving-kindness  in  leading  about  and  instruct- 
ing me,  and  in  opening  and  enlarging  my  heart  in  some  of 
our  meetings. 

In  the  eleventh  month  this  year,  feeling  an  engagement  of 
mind  to  visit  som.e  families  in  Mansfield,  I  joined  my  beloved 
friend  Benjamin  Jones,  and  we  spent  a  few  days  together  in 
that  service.  In  the  second  month,  1763,  I  joined,  in  com- 
pany with  Elizabeth  Smith  and  Mary  Noble,  in  a  visit  to 
the  families  of  Friends  at  Ancocas.  In  both  these  visits, 
through  the  baptizing  power  of  truth,  the  sincere  laboreris 
were  often  comforted,  and  the  hearts  of  Friends  opened  to 
receive  us.  In  the  fourth  month  following,  I  accompanied 
some  Friends  in  a  visit  to  the  families  of  Friends  in  Mount 
Holly;  during  this  visit  my  mind  was  often  drawn  into  an 
inward  awfulness,  wherein  strong  desires  were  raised  for 
the  everlasting  welfare  of  my  fellow-creatures,  and  through 
the  kindness  of  our  Heavenly  Father  our  hearts  were  at 
times  enlarged,  and  Friends  were  invited,  in  the  flowings 
of  Divine  love,  to  attend  to  that  which  would  settle  them  on 
the  sure  foundation. 

Having  for  many  years  felt  love  in  my  heart  towards  the 
natives  of  this  land  who  dwell  far  back  in  the  wilderness, 
whose  ancestors  were  formerly  the  owners  and  possessors 
of  the  land  where  we  dwell,  and  who  for  a  small  considera- 
tion assigned  their  inheritance  to  us,  and  being  at  Phila- 
delphia in  the  8th  month,  1761,  on  a  visit  to  som^  Friends 
who  had  slaves,  I  fell  in  company  with  some  of  those  natives 
who  lived  on  the  east  branch  of  the  river  Susquehanna,  at 
an  Indian  town  called  Wehaloosing,  two  hundred  miles  from 
Philadelphia.  In  conversation  with  them  by  an  interpr^er, 
as  also  by  observations  on  their  countenances  and  coisiuGt, 
I  believed  some  of  them  were  measurably  acquainted  with 


266  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

that  Divine  power  which  subjects  the  rough  and  f reward  will 
of  the  creature.  At  times  I  felt  inward  drawings  towards 
a  visit  to  that  place,  which  I  mentioned  to  none  except  my 
dear  wife  until  it  came  to  some  ripeness.  In  the  winter  of 
1762  I  laid  my  prospects  before  my  friends  at  our  Monthly 
and  Quarterly,  and  afterwards  at  our  General  Spring  Meet- 
ing; and  having  the  unity  of  Friends,  and  being  thoughtful 
about  an  Indian  pilot,  there  came  a  man  and  three  women 
from  a  little  beyond  that  town  to  Philadelphia  on  business. 
Being  informed  thereof  by  letter,  I  met  them  in  town  in  the 
5th  month,  1763;  and  after  some  conversation,  finding  they 
were  sober  people,  I,  with  the  concurrence  of  Friends  in  that 
place,  agreed  to  join  them  as  companions  in  their  return, 
and  we  appointed  to  meet  at  Samuel  Foulk's,  at  Richland,  in 
Bucks  County,  on  the  7th  of  sixth  month.  Now,  as  this 
■/isit  felt  weighty,  and  was  performed  at  a  time  when  travel- 
ling appeared  perilous,  so  the  dispensations  of  Divine  Prov- 
idence in  preparing  my  mind  for  it  have  been  memorable, 
and  I  believe  it  good  for  me  to  give  some  account  thereof. 

After  I  had  given  up  to  go,  the  thoughts  of  the  journey 
were  often  attended  v/ith  unusual  sadness;  at  which  times 
my  heart  v/as  frequently  turned  to  the  Lord  with  inward 
breathings  for  his  heavenly  support,  that  I  might  not  fail 
to  follow  him  wheresoever  he  might  lead  me.  Being  at  our 
youth's  meeting  at  Chesterfield,  about  a  week  before  the 
time  I  expected  to  set  off,  I  was  there  led  to  speak  on  that 
prayer  of  our  Redeemer  to  the  Father:  "I  pray  not  that 
thou  shouldest  take  them  out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou 
shouldest  keep  them  from  the  evil."  And  in  attending  to  the 
pure  openings  of  truth,  I  had  to  mention  what  he  elsewhere 
said  to  his  Father :  "  I  knov/  that  thou  hearest  me  at  all 
times  " ;  so,  as  some  of  his  followers  kept  their  places,  and 
as  his  prayer  was  granted,  it  followed  necessarily  that  they 
were  kept  from  evil;  and  as  some  of  those  met  with  great 
hardships  and  afflictions  in  this  world,  and  at  last  suffered 
death  by  cruel  men,  so  it  appears-  that  whatsoever  befalls 
men  while  they  live  in  pure  obedience  to  God  certainly  works 
for  their  good,  and  may  not  be  considered  an  evil  as  it  re- 
lates to  them.  As  I  spake  on  this  subject  my  heart  was 
much  tendered,  and  great  awfulness  came  over  me.    On  the 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  267 

first  day  of  the  week,  being  at  our  own  afternoon  meeting, 
and  my  heart  being  enlarged  in  love>  I  was  led  to  speak  on 
the  care  and  protection  of  the  Lord  over  his  people,  and  to 
make  mention  of  that  passage  where  a  band  of  Syrians^  who 
were  endeavoring  to  take  captive  the  prophet>  were  disap- 
pointed; and  how  the  Psalmist  said,  "The  angel  of  the  Lord 
encampeth  round  about  them  that  fear  him."  Thus,  in  true 
love  and  tenderness,  I  parted  from  Friends,  expecting  the 
next  morning  to  proceed  on  my  journey.  Being  weary  I 
went  early  to  bed.  After  I  had  been  asleep  a  short  time 
I  was  awoke  by  a  man  calling  at  my  door,  and  inviting 
me  to  meet  some  Friends  at  a  public-house  in  our  town,  who 
came  from  Philadelphia  so  late  that  Friends  were  generally 
gone  to  bed.  These  Friends  informed  me  that  an  express 
had  arrived  the  last  morning  from  Pittsburg,  and  brought 
news  that  the  Indians  had  taken  a  fort  from  the  English 
westward,  and  had  slain  and  scalped  some  English  people 
near  the  said  Pittsburg,  and  in  divers  places.  Some  elderly 
Friends  in  Philadelphia,  knowing  the  time  of  my  intending 
to  set  off,  had  conferred  together,  and  thought  good  to  inform 
me  of  these  things  before  I  left  home,  that  I  might  con- 
sider them  and  proceed  as  I  believed  best.  Going  to  bed 
again,  I  told  not  my  wife  till  morning.  My  heart  was  turned 
to  the  Lord  for  his  heavenly  instruction;  and  it  was  an 
humbling  time  to  me.  When  I  told  my  dear  wife,  she  ap- 
peared to  be  deeply  concerned  about  it;  but  in  a  few  hours' 
time  my  mind  became  settled  in  a  belief  that  it  was  my  duty 
to  proceed  on  my  journey,  and  she  bore  it  with  a  good 
degree  of  resignation.  In  this  conflict  of  spirit  there  were 
great  searchings  of  heart  and  strong  cries  to  the  Lord,  that 
no  motion  might  in  the  least  degree  be  attended  to  but  that 
of  the  pure  spirit  of  truth. 

The  subjects  before  mentioned,  on  which  I  had  so  lately 
spoken  in  public,  were  now  fresh  before  me,  and  I  was 
brought  inwardly  to  commit  myself  to  the  Lord,  to  be  dis- 
posed of  as  he  saw  best.  I  took  leave  of  my  family  and 
neighbors  in  much  bowedness  of  spirit,  and  went  to  our 
Monthly  Meeting  at  Burlington.  After  taking  leave  of 
Friends  there,  I  crossed  the  river,  accompanied  by  my  friends 
Israel  and  John  Pemberton;  and  parting  the  next  morning 


268  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

with  Israel,  John  bore  me  company  to  Samuel  Foulk's,  where 
I  met  the  before-mentioned  Indians;  and  we  were  glad  to 
see  each  other.  Here  my  friend  Benjamin  Parvin  met  me, 
and  proposed  joining  me  as  a  companion, — we  had  before 
exchanged  some  letters  on  the  subject, — and  now  I  had  a 
sharp  trial  on  his  account ;  for,  as  the  journey  appeared  per- 
ilous, I  thought  if  he  went  chiefly  to  bear  me  company,  and 
we  should  be  taken  captive,  my  having  been  the  m.eans  of 
drawing  him  into  these  difficulties  would  add  to  my  own 
afflictions;  so  I  told  him  my  mind  freely,  and  let  him  know 
that  I  was  resigned  to  go  alone ;  but  after  all,  if  he  really  be- 
lieved it  to  be  his  duty  to  go  on,  I  believed  his  company  would 
be  very  comfortable  to  me.  It  was,  indeed,  a  time  of  deep 
exercise,  and  Benjamin  appeared  to  be  so  fastened  to  the  visit 
that  he  could  not  be  easy  to  leave  me;  so  we  went  on,  ac- 
companied by  our  friends  John  Pemberton  and  William 
Lightfoot  of  Pikeland.  We  lodged  at  Bethlehem,  and  there 
parting  with  John,  William  and  we  went  forward  on  the 
9th  of  the  sixth  months  and  got  lodging  on  the  floor  of  a 
house,  about  five  miles  from  Fort  Allen.  Here  we  parted 
with  William.,  and  at  this  place  we  met  with  an  Indian  trader 
lately  come  from  Wyoming.  In  conversation  with  him,  I 
perceived  that  many  white  people  often  sell  rum  to  the 
Indians,  which  I  believe  is  a  great  evil.  In  the  first  place, 
they  are  thereby  deprived  of  the  use  of  reason,  and  their 
spirits  being  violently  agitated,  quarrels  often  arise  which 
end  in  mischief,  and  the  bitterness  and  resentment  occasioned 
hereby  are  frequently  of  long  continuance.  Again,  their  skins 
and  furs,  gotten  through  much  fatigue  and  hard  travels  in 
hunting,  with  which  they  intended  to  buy  clothing,  they  often 
sell  at  a  low  rate  for  more  rum,  when  they  become  intoxi- 
cated; and  afterward,  when  they  suffer  for  want  of  the 
necessaries  of  life,  are  angry  with  those  who,  for  the  sake 
of  gain,  took  advantage  of  their  weakness.  Their  chiefs  have 
often  complained  of  this  in  their  treaties  with  the  English. 
Where  cunning  people  pass  counterfeits  and  impose  on  others 
that  which  is  good  for  nothing,  it  is  considered  as  wicked- 
ness; but  for  the  sake  of  gain  to  sell  that  which  we  know 
does  people  harm,  and  which  often  works  their  ruin,  mani- 
fests a  hardened  and  corrupt  hearty  and  is  an  evil  which  de* 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  269 

mands  the  care  of  all  true  lovers  of  virtue  to  suppress.  While 
my  mind  this  evening  was  thus  employed,  I  also  remembered 
that  the  people  on  the  frontiers,  among  whom  this  evil  is  too 
common,  are  often  poor ;  and  that  they  venture  to  the  outside 
of  a  colony  in  order  to  live  more  independently  of  the 
wealthy,  who  often  set  high  rents  on  their  land.  I  was  re- 
newedly  confirmed  in  a  belief,  that  if  all  our  inhabitants  lived 
according  to  sound  wisdom,  laboring  to  promote  universal 
love  and  righteousness,  and  ceased  from  every  inordinate 
desire  after  wealth,  and  from  all  customs  which  are  tinctured 
with  luxury,  the  way  would  be  easy  for  our  inhabitants, 
though  they  might  be  much  more  numerous  than  at  present, 
to  live  comfortably  on  honest  employments,  without  the 
temptation  they  are  so  often  under  of  being  drawn  into 
schemes  to  make  settlements  on  lands  which  have  not  been 
purchased  of  the  Indians,  or  of  applying  to  that  wicked  prac- 
tice of  selling  rum  to  them. 

Tenth  of  sixth  month. — We  set  out  early  this  morning  and 
crossed  the  western  branch  of  Delaware,  called  the  Great 
Lehie,  near  Fort  Allen.  The  water  being  high,  we  went  over 
in  a  canoe.  Here  we  met  an  Indian,  had  friendly  conver- 
sation with  him,  and  gave  him  some  biscuit;  and  he,  having 
killed  a  deer,  gave  some  of  it  to  the  Indians  with  us.  After 
travelling  some  miles,  we  met  several  Indian  men  and  women 
with  a  cow  and  horse,  and  some  household  goods,  who  were 
lately  come  from  their  dwelling  at  Wyoming,  and  were  going 
to  settle  at  another  place.  We  made  them  some  small  pres- 
ents, and,  as  some  of  them  understood  English,  I  told  them 
my  motive  for  coming  into  their  country,  with  which  they 
appeared  satisfied.  One  of  our  guides  talking  awhile  with 
an  ancient  woman  concerning  us,  the  poor  old  woman  came 
to  my  companion  and  me  and  took  her  leave  of  us  with  an 
appearance  of  sincere  affection.  We  pitched  our  tent  near 
the  banks  of  the  same  river,  having  labored  hard  in  crossing 
some  of  those  mountains  called  the  Blue  Ridge.  The  rough- 
ness of  the  stones  and  the  cavities  between  them,  with  the 
steepness  of  the  hills,  made  it  appear  dangerous.  But  we 
were  preserved  in  safety,  through  the  kindness  of  Him  whose 
works  in  these  mountainous  deserts  appeared  awful,  and 
towards  whom  m-y  heart  was  turned  during  this  day's  travel 


270  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

Near  our  tent,  on  the  sides  of  large  trees  peeled  for  that 
purpose,  were  various  representations  of  men  going  to  and 
returning  from  the  wars,  and  of  some  being  killed  in  battle. 
This  was  a  path  heretofore  used  by  warriors,  and  as  I  walked 
about  viewing  those  Indian  histories,  which  were  painted 
mostly  in  red  or  black,  and  thinking  on  the  innumerable 
afflictions  which  the  proud,  fierce  spirit  produceth  in  the 
world,  also  on  the  toils  and  fatigues  of  warriors  in  travelling 
over  mountains  and  deserts;  on  their  miseries  and  distresses 
when  far  from  home  and  wounded  by  their  enemies ;  of  their 
bruises  and  great  weariness  in  chasing  one  another  over  the 
rocks  and  mountains;  of  the  restless,  unquiet  state  of  mind 
of  those  who  live  in  this  spirit,  and  of  the  hatred  which 
mutually  grows  up  in  the  minds  of  their  children, — ^the  desire 
to  cherish  the  spirit  of  love  and  peace  among  these  people 
arose  very  fresh  in  me.  This  was  the  first  night  that  we 
lodged  in  the  woods,  and  being  wet  with  travelling  in  the 
rain,  as  were  also  our  blankets,  the  ground,  our  tent,  and  the 
bushes  under  which  we  purposed  to  lay,  all  looked  discour- 
aging; but  I  believed  that  it  was  the  Lord  who  had  thus  far 
brought  me  forward,  and  that  he  would  dispose  of  me  as 
he  saw  good,  and  so  I  felt  easy.  We  kindled  a  fire,  with 
our  tent  open  to  it,  then  laid  some  bushes  next  the  ground, 
and  put  our  blankets  upon  them  for  our  bed,  and,  lying  down, 
got  some  sleep.  In  the  morning,  feeling  a  little  unwell,  I 
went  into  the  river;  the  water  was  cold,  but  soon  after  I 
felt  fresh  and  well.  About  eight  o'clock  we  set  forward  and 
crossed  a  high  mountain  supposed  to  be  upward  of  four  miles 
over,  the  north  side  being  the  steepest.  About  noon  we  were 
overtaken  by  one  of  the  Moravian  brethren  going  to  Weha- 
loosing,  and  an  Indian  man  with  him  who  could  talk  English ; 
and  we  being  together  while  our  horses  ate  grass  had  some 
friendly  conversation;  but  they,  travelling  faster  than  we, 
soon  left  us.  This  Moravian,  I  understood,  has  this  spring 
'Spent  some  time  at  Wehaloosing,  and  was  invited  by  some 
of  the  Indians  to  come  again. 

Twelfth  of  sixth  month  being  the  first  of  the  week  and  a 
rainy  day,  we  continued  in  our  tent,  and  I  was  led  to  think 
on  the  nature  of  the  exercise  which  hath  attended  me.  Love 
was  the  first  motion,  and  thence  a  concern  arose  to  spend 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  271 

some  time  with  the  Indians,  that  I  might  feel  and  understand 
their  life  and  the  spirit  they  live  in,  if  haply  I  might  receive 
some  instruction  from  them,  or  they  might  be  in  any  degree 
helped  forward  by  my  following  the  leadings  of  truth  among 
them ;  and  as  it  pleased  the  Lord  to  make  way  for  m.y  going 
at  a  time  when  the  troubles  of  war  were  increasing,  and 
when,  by  reason  of  much  wet  weather,  travelling  was 
more  difficult  than  usual  at  that  season,  I  looked  upon 
is  as  a  more  favorable  opportunity  to  season  my  mind, 
and  to  bring  me  into  a  nearer  sympathy  with  them.  As 
mine  eye  was  to  the  great  Father  of  Mercies,  humbly 
desiring  to  learn  his  will  concerning  me,  I  was  made  quiet 
and  content. 

Our  guide's  horse  strayed,  though  hoppled,  in  the  night, 
and  after  searching  some  time  for  him  his  footsteps  were 
discovered  in  the  path  going  back,  whereupon  my  kind  com- 
panion went  off  in  the  rain,  and  after  about  seven  hours 
returned  with  him.  Here  we  lodged  again,  tying  up  our 
horses  before  we  went  to  bed,  and  loosing  them  to  feed 
about  break  of  day. 

Thirteenth  of  sixth  month. — The  sun  appearing,  we  set  for- 
ward, and  as  I  rode  over  the  barren  hills  my  meditations 
were  on  the  alterations  in  the  circumstances  of  the  natives 
of  this  land  since  the  coming  in  of  the  English.  The  lands 
near  the  sea  are  conveniently  situated  for  fishing;  the  lands 
near  the  rivers,  where  the  tides  flow,  and  some  above,  are 
in  many  places  fertile,  and  not  mountainous,  while  the 
changing  of  the  tides  makes  passing  up  and  down  easy  with 
any  kind  of  traffic.  The  natives  have  In  some  places,  for 
trifling  considerations,  sold  their  inheritance  so  favorably 
situated,  and  In  other  places  have  been  driven  back  by 
superior  force;  their  way  of  clothing  themselves  is  also 
altered  from  what  it  was,  and  they  being  far  removed  from 
us  have  to  pass  over  mountains,  swamps,  and  barren  deserts, 
so  that  travelling  Is  very  troublesome  in  bringing  their  skins 
and  furs  to  trade  with  us.  By  the  extension  of  English  set- 
tlements, and  partly  by  the  increase  of  English  hunters,  the 
wild  beasts  on  which  the  natives  chiefly  depend  for  subsis- 
tence are  not  so  plentiful  as  they  were,  and  people  too  often, 
for  the  sake  of  gain,  induce  them  to  waste  their  skins  and 


272  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

furs  in  purchasing  a  liquor  which  tends  to  the  ruin  of  them 
and  their  families. 

My  own  will  and  desires  were  now  very  much  broken,  and 
my  heart  was  with  much  earnestness  turned  to  the  Lord,  to 
whom  alone  I  looked  for  help  in  the  dangers  before  me.  I 
had  a  prospect  of  the  English  along  the  coast  for  upwards 
of  nine  hundred  miles,  where  I  travelled,  and  their  favorable 
situation  and  the  difficulties  attending  the  natives  as  well  as 
the  negroes  in  many  places  were  open  before  me.  A  weighty 
and  heavenly  care  came  over  my  mind,  and  love  filled  my 
heart  towards  all  mankind,  in  which  I  felt  a  strong  engage- 
ment that  we  might  be  obedient  to  the  Lord  while  in  tender 
mercy  he  is  yet  calling  to  us,  and  that  we  might  so  attend 
to  pure  universal  righteousness  as  to  give  no  just  cause  of 
offence  to  the  gentiles,  who  do  not  profess  Christianity, 
whether  they  be  the  blacks  from  Africa,  or  the  native  inhabi- 
tants of  this  continent.  Here  I  was  led  into  a  close  and 
laborious  inquiry  whether  I,  as  an  individual,  kept  clear 
from  all  things  which  tended  to  stir  up  or  were  connected 
with  wars,  either  in  this  land  or  in  Africa;  my  heart  was 
deeply  concerned  that  in  future  I  might  in  all  things  keep 
steadily  to  the  pure  truth,  and  live  and  walk  in  the  plainness 
and  simplicity  of  a  sincere  follower  of  Christ.  In  this  lonely 
journey  I  did  greatly  bewail  the  spreading  of  a  wrong  spirit, 
believing  that  the  prosperous,  convenient  situation  of  the 
English  would  require  a  constant  attention  in  us  to  Divine 
love  and  wisdom,  in  order  to  their  being  guided  and  sup- 
ported in  a  way  answerable  to  the  will  of  that  good,  gracious, 
and  Almighty  Being,  who  hath  an  equal  regard  to  all  man- 
kind. And  here  luxury  and  covetousness,  with  the  numerous 
oppressions  and  other  evils  attending  them,  appeared  very 
afflicting  to  me,  and  I  felt  in  that  which  is  immutable  that 
the  seeds  of  great  calamity  and  desolation  are  sown  and 
growing  fast  on  this  continent.  Nor  have  I  words  sufficient 
to  s<^t  forth  the  longing  I  then  felt,  that  we  who  are  placed 
along  the  coast,  and  have  tasted  the  love  and  goodness  of 
God,  might  arise  in  the  strength  thereof,  and  like  faithful 
messengers  labor  to  check  the  growth  of  these  seeds,  that 
they  may  not  ripen  to  the  ruin  of  our  posterity. 

On  reaching  the  Indian  settlement  at  Wyoming,  we  were 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  273 

told  that  an  Indian  runner  had  been  at  that  place  a  day  or 
two  before  tis,  and  brought  news  of  the  Indians  having  taken 
an  English  fort  westward,  and  destroyed  the  people,  and  that 
they  were  endeavoring  to  take  another;  also  that  another 
Indian  runner  came  there  about  the  middle  of  the  previous 
night  from  a  town  about  ten  miles  fram  Wehaloosing,  and 
brought  the  news  that  some  Indian  warriors  from  distant 
parts  came  to  that  town  with  two  English  scalps,  and  told 
the  people  that  it  was  war  with  the  English. 

Our  guides  took  us  to  the  house  of  a  very  ancient  man. 
Soon  after  we  had  put  in  our  baggage  there  came  a  man 
from  another  Indian  house  some  distance  off.  Perceiving 
there  was  a  man  near  the  door  I  went  out;  the  man  had  a 
tomahawk  wrapped  under  his  match-coat  out  of  sight.  As 
I  approached  him  he  took  it  in  his  hand;  I  went  forward, 
and,  speaking  to  him  in  a  friendly  way,  perceived  he  under- 
stood some  English.  My  companion  joining  me,  we  had 
some  talk  with  him  concerning  the  nature  of  our  visit  in 
these  parts;  he  then  went  Into  the  house  with  us,  and,  talk- 
ing with  our  guides,  soon  appeared  friendly,  sat  down  and 
smoked  his  pipe.  Though  taking  his  hatchet  in  his  hand  at 
the  instant  I  drew  near  to  him  had  a  disagreeable  appear- 
ance, I  believe  he  had  no  other  intent  than  to  be  in  readi- 
ness in  case  any  violence  were  offered  to  him. 

On  hearing  the  news  brought  by  these  Indian  runners, 
and  being  told  by  the  Indians  where  we  lodged,  that  the 
Indians  about  Wyoming  expected  in  a  few  days  to  move  to 
some  larger  towns,  I  thought,  to  all  outward  appearance,  it 
would  be  dangerous  travelling  at  this  time.  After  a  hard 
'day's  journey  I  was  brought  into  a  painful  exercise  at  night, 
in  which  I  had  to  trace  back  and  view  the  steps  I  had  taken 
from  my  first  moving  in  the  visit;  and  though  I  had  to 
bewail  some  weakness  which  at  times  had  attended  me,  yet 
I  could  not  find  that  I  had  ever  given  way  to  wilful  dis- 
obedience. Believing  I  had,  under  a  sense  of  duty,  come 
thus  far,  I  was  now  earnest  in  spirit,  beseeching  the  Lord 
to  show  m.e  what  I  ought  to  do.  In  this  great  distress  I  grew 
jealous  of  myself,  lest  the  desire  of  reputation  as  a  man 
firmly  settled  to  persevere  through  dangers,  or  the  fear  of 
disgrace  from  my  returning  without  performing  the  visit. 


274  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

might  have  some  place  in  me.  Full  of  these  thoughts,  I  lay 
great  part  of  the  night,  while  my  beloved  companion  slept 
by  me,  till  the  Lord,  my  gracious  Father,  who  saw  the  con- 
flicts of  my  soul,  was  pleased  to  give  quietness.  Then  I  was 
again  strengthened  to  commit  my  life,  and  all  things  relat- 
ing thereto,  into  his  heavenly  hands,  and  got  a  little  sleep 
towards  day. 

Fourteenth  of  sixth  m^onth. — ^We  sought  out  and  visited 
all  the  Indians  hereabouts  that  we  could  m^eet  with,  in  num- 
ber about  twenty.  They  were  chiefly  in  one  place,  about  a 
mile  from  where  we  lodged.  I  expressed  to  them  the  care 
I  had  on  my  mind  for  their  good,  and  told  them  that  true 
love  had  made  me  willing  thus  to  leave  my  family  to  come 
and  see  the  Indians  and  speak  with  them  in  their  houses. 
Some  of  them  appeared  kind  and  friendly.  After  taking 
leave  of  them,  we  went  up  the  river  Susquehanna  about  three 
miles,  to  the  house  of  an  Indian  called  Jacob  January.  He 
had  killed  his  hog,  and  the  women  were  m.aking  store  of 
bread  and  preparing  to  move  up  the  river.  Here  our  pilots 
had  left  their  canoe  when  they  came  down  in  the  spring, 
and  lying  dry  it  had  become  leaky.  This  detained  us  some 
hours,  so  that  v/e  had  a  good  deal  of  friendly  conversation 
with  the  family;  and,  eating  dinner  with  them,  we  made 
them  some  small  presents.  Then  putting  our  baggage  into 
the  canoe,  some  of  them  pushed  slowly  up  the  stream,  and 
the  rest  of  us  rode  our  horses.  We  sv/am  them  over  a  creek 
called  Lahawahamunk,  and  pitched  our  tent  above  it  in  the 
evening.  In  a  sense  of  God's  goodness  in  helping  me  in  my 
distress,  sustaining  me  under  trials,  and  inclining  my  heart 
to  trust  in  him,  I  lay  down  in  an  humble,  bowed  frame  of 
mind,  and  had  a  comfortable  night's  lodging. 

Fifteenth  of  sixth  month. — We  proceeded  forward  till  the 
afternoon,  when,  a  storm  appearing,  we  met  our  canoe  at 
an  appointed  place  and  stayed  all  night,  the  rain  continuing 
so  heavy  that  it  beat  through  our  tent  and  wet  both  us  and 
our  baggage.  The  next  day  we  found  abundance  of  trees 
blown  down  by  the  storm  yesterday,  and  had  occasion 
reverently  to  consider  the  kind  dealings  of  the  Lord  who 
provided  a  safe  place  for  us  in  a  valley  while  this  storm 
continued.    We  were  much  hinde^red  by  the  trees  which  had 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  275 

fallen  across  our  path,  and  in  some  swamps  our  way  was  so 
stopped  that  v/e  got  through  with  extreme  difficulty.  I  had 
this  day  often  to  consider  myself  as  a  sojourner  in  this 
world.  A  belief  in  the  all-sufficiency  of  God  to  support  his 
people  in  their  pilgrimage  felt  comfortable  to  me,  and  I 
was  industriously  employed  to  get  to  a  state  of  perfect 
resignation. 

We  seldom  saw  our  canoe  but  at  appointed  places,  by 
reason  of  the  path  going  off  from  the  river.  This  afternoon 
Job  Chilaway,  an  Indian  from  Wehaloosing,  who  talks  good 
English  and  is  acquainted  with  several  people  in  and  about 
Philadelphia,  m.et  our  people  on  the  river.  Understanding 
where  we  expected  to  lodge,  he  pushed  back  about  six 
miles,  and  came  to  us  after  night;  and  in  a  while  our  own 
canoe  arrived,  it  being  hard  work  pushing  up  the  stream. 
Job  told  us  that  an  Indian  came  in  haste  to  their  town  yes- 
terday and  told  them  that  three  warriors  from  a  distance 
lodged  in  a  town  above  Wehaloosing  a  few  nights  past,  and 
that  these  three  men  were  going  against  the  English  at 
Juniata.  Job  was  going  down  the  river  to  the  province- 
store  at  Shamokin.  Though  I  was  so  far  favored  with 
health  as  to  continue  travelling,  yet,  through  the  various 
difficulties  in  our  journey,  and  the  different  v/ay  of  living 
from  which  I  had  been  used  to,  I  grew  sick.  The  nev/s  of 
these  warriors  being  on  their  march  so  near  us,  and  not 
knowing  whether  we  might  not  fall  in  with  them,  was  a 
fresh  trial  of  my  faith;  and  though,  through  the  strength 
of  Divine  love,  I  had  several  times  been  enabled  to  commit 
myself  to  the  Divine  disposal,  I  still  found  the  want  of  a 
renewal  of  my  strength,  that  I  might  be  able  to  persevere 
therein;  and  my  cries  for  help  were  put  up  to  the  Lord, 
who,  in  great  mercy,  gave  me  a  resigned  heart,  in  which  I 
found  quietness. 

Parting  from  Job  Chilaway  on  the  17th,  we  went  on  and 
reached  Wehaloosing  about  the  middle  of  the  afternoon. 
The  first  Indian  that  we  saw  was  a  woman  of  a  modest 
countenance,  with  a  Bible,  who  spake  first  to  our  guide,  and 
then  with  an  harmonious  voice  expressed  her  gladness  at 
seeing  us,  having  before  heard  of  our  coming.  By  the 
direction  of  our  guide  we  sat  down  on  a  log  while  he  went 


276  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

to  the  town  to  tell  the  people  we  were  come.  My  companion 
and  I,  sitting  thus  together  in  a  deep  inward  stillness,  the 
poor  woman  came  and  sat  near  us;  and,  great  awfulness 
coming  over  us,  we  rejoiced  in  a  sense  of  God's  love  mani- 
fested to  our  poor  souls.  After  a  while  we  heard  a  conch- 
shell  blow  several  times,  and  then  cam.e  John  Curtis  and 
another  Indian  man,  who  kindly  invited  us  into  a  house  near 
the  town,  where  we  found  about  sixty  people  sitting  in 
silence.  After  sitting  with  them  a  short  time  I  stood  up, 
and  in  some  tenderness  of  spirit  acquainted  them,  in  a  few 
short  sentences,  with  the  nature  of  my  visit,  and  that  a 
concern  for  their  good  had  made  me  willing  to  come  thus 
far  to  see  them;  which  some  of  them  understanding  inter- 
preted to  the  others,  and  there  appeared  gladness  among 
them.  I  then  showed  them  my  certificate,  which  was  ex- 
plained to  them;  and  the  Moravian  who  overtook  us  on  the 
way,  being  now  here,  bade  me  welcome.  But  the  Indians 
knowing  that  this  Moravian  and  I  were  of  different  religious 
societies,  and  as  some  of  their  people  had  encouraged  him 
to  come  and  stay  awhile  with  them,  they  were,  I  believe, 
concerned  that  there  might  be  no  jarring  or  discord  in  their 
meetings;  and  having,  I  suppose,  conferred  together,  they 
acquainted  me  that  the  people,  at  my  request,  would  at  any 
time  come  together  and  hold  meetings.  They  also  told  me 
that  they  expected  the  Moravian  would  speak  in  their  set- 
tled meetings,  which  are  commonly  held  in  the  morning  and 
near  evening.  So  finding  liberty  in  my  heart  to  speak  to  the 
Moravian,  I  told  him  of  the  care  I  felt  on  my  mind  for  the 
good  of  these  people,  and  my  belief  that  no  ill  effects  would 
follow  if  I  sometimes  spake  in  their  meetings  when  love 
engaged  me  thereto,  without  calling  them  together  at  times 
when  they  did  not  meet  of  course.  He  expressed  his  good- 
will towards  my  speaking  at  any  time  all  that  I  found  in  my 
heart  to  say. 

On  the  evening  of  the  i8th  I  was  at  their  meeting,  where 
pure  gospel  love  was  felt,  to  the  tendering  of  some  of  our 
hearts.  The  interpreters  endeavored  to  acquaint  the  people 
with  what  I  said,  in  short  sentences,  but  found  some  diffi- 
culty, as  none  of  them  were  quite  perfect  in  the  English  and 
Delaware   tongues,   so   they   helped   one    another,   and    we 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  277 

labored  along,  Divine  love  attending.  Afterwards,  feeling 
my  mind  covered  with  the  spirit  of  prayer,  I  told  the  inter- 
preters that  I  found  it  in  my  heart  to  pray  to  God,  and 
believed,  if  I  prayed  aright,  he  would  hear  me;  and  I  ex- 
pressed my  willingness  for  them  to  omit  interpreting;  so 
our  meeting  ended  with  a  degree  of  Divine  love.  Before 
the  people  v/ent  out,  I  observed  Papunehang  (the  man  who 
had  been  zealous  in  laboring  for  a  reformation  in  that  town, 
being  then  very  tender)  speaking  to  one  of  the  interpreters, 
and  I  was  aftervvrards  told  that  he  said  in  substance  as  fol- 
lows :    "  I  love  to  feel  where  v/ords  come  from." 

Nineteenth  of  sixth  month  and  first  of  the  week. — This 
m.orning  the  Indian  who  came  with  the  Moravian,  being  also 
a  member  of  that  society,  prayed  in  the  meeting,  and  then 
the  Moravian  spake  a  short  time  to  the  people.  In  the  after- 
noon, my  heart  being  filled  with  a  heavenly  care  for  their 
good,  I  spake  to  them  awhile  by  interpreters;  but  none  of 
them  being  perfect  in  the  work,  and  I  feeling  the  current 
of  love  run  strong,  told  the  interpreters  that  I  believed  some 
of  the  people  would  understand  me,  and  so  I  proceeded  with- 
out them;  and  I  believe  the  Holy  Ghost  wrought  on  som.e 
hearts  to  edification  where  all  the  words  were  not  under- 
stood. I  looked  upon  it  as  a  time  of  Divine  favor,  and  my 
heart  was  tendered  and  truly  thankful  before  the  Lord. 
After  I  sat  down,  one  of  the  interpreters  seemed  spirited  to 
give  the  Indians  the  substance  of  what  I  said. 

Before  our  first  meeting  this  morning,  I  was  led  to  medi- 
tate on  the  manifold  difficulties  of  these  Indians  who,  by  the 
permission  of  the  Six  Nations,  dwell  in  these  parts.  A  near 
sympathy  with  them  was  raised  in  me,  and,  my  heart  being 
enlarged  in  the  love  of  Christ,  I  thought  that  the  affectionate 
care  of  a  good  man  for  his  only  brother  in  affliction  does 
not  exceed  what  I  then  felt  for  that  people.  I  came  to  this 
place  through  much  trouble;  and  though  through  the  mer- 
cies of  God  I  believed  that  if  I  died  in  the  journey  it  would 
be  well  with  me,  yet  the  thoughts  of  falling  into  the  hands 
of  Indian  warriors  were,  in  times  of  v/eakness,  afflicting  to 
me ;  and  being  of  a  tender  constitution  of  body,  the  thoughts 
of  captivity  among  them  were  also  grievous ;  supposing  that 
as  they  were  strong  and  hardy  they  might  demand  service 


278  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

of  me  beyond  what  I  could  well  bear.  But  the  Lord  alone 
was  my  keeper,  and  I  believed  that  if  I  went  into  captivity 
it  would  be  for  some  good  end.  Thus,  from  time  to  time,  my 
mind  was  centred  in  resignation,  in  which  I  always  found 
quietness.  And  this  day,  though  I  had  the  same  dangerous 
wilderness  between  me  and  home,  I  was  inwardly  joyful 
that  the  Lord  had  strengthened  me  to  come  on  this  visit,  and 
had  manifested  a  fatherly  care  over  me  in  my  poor  lowly 
condition,  when,  in  mine  own  eyes,  I  appeared  inferior  to 
many  among  the  Indians. 

When  the  last-mentioned  meeting  was  ended,  it  being 
night,  Papunehang  went  to  bed ;  and  hearing  him  speak  with 
an  harmonious  voice,  I  suppose  for  a  minute  or  two,  I  asked 
the  interpreter,  who  told  me  that  he  was  expressing  his 
thankfulness  to  God  for  the  favors  he  had  received  that  day, 
and  prayed  that  he  would  continue  to  favor  him  with  the 
same,  which  he  had  experienced  in  that  meeting.  Though 
Papunehang  had  before  agreed  to  receive  the  Moravian  and 
join  with  them,  he  still  appeared  kind  and  loving  to  us. 

I  was  at  two  meetings  on  the  20th,  and  silent  in  them. 
The  following  morning,  in  meeting,  my  heart  was  enlarged 
in  pure  love  among  them,  and  in  short  plain  sentences  I 
expressed  several  things  that  rested  upon  me,  which  one  of 
the  interpreters  gave  the  people  pretty  readily.  The  meeting 
ended  in  supplication,  and  I  had  cause  humbly  to  acknowl- 
edge the  loving-kindness  of  the  Lord  towards  us ;  and  then 
I  believed  that  a  door  remained  open  for  the  faithful  dis- 
ciples of  Jesus  Christ  to  labor  among  these  people.  And 
now,  feeling  my  mind  at  liberty  to  return,  I  took  my  leave 
of  them  in  general  at  the  conclusion  of  what  I  said  in  meet- 
ing, and  we  then  prepared  to  go  homeward.  But  some  of 
their  most  active  men  told  us  that  when  we  were  ready  to 
move  the  people  would  choose  to  come  and  shake  hands 
with  us.  Those  who  usually  came  to  meeting  did  so;  and 
from  a  secret  draught  in  my  mind  I  went  among  some  who 
did  not  usually  go  to  meeting,  and  took  my  leave  of  them 
also.  The  Moravian  and  his  Indian  interpreter  appeared 
respectful  to  us  at  parting.  This  town,  Wehaloosing,  stands 
on  the  bank  of  the  Susquehanna,  and  consists,  I  believe,  of 
about  forty  houses,  mostly  compact  together,  some   about 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  279 

thirty  feet  long  and  eighteen  wide, — some  bigger,  some  less. 
They  are  built  m.ostly  of  split  plank,  one  end  being  set  in 
the  ground,  and  the  other  pinned  to  a  plate  on  which  rafters 
are  laid,  and  then  covered  with  bark.  I  understand  a  great 
flood  last  winter  overflowed  the  greater  part  of  the  ground 
where  the  town  stands,  and  some  were  now  about  moving 
their  houses  to  higher  ground. 

We  expected  only  two  Indians  to  be  of  our  company,  but 
when  we  were  ready  to  go  we  found  many  of  them  were 
going  to  Bethlehem  with  skins  and  furs,  and  chose  to  go  in 
company  with  us.  So  they  loaded  tv/o  canoes  in  which  they 
desired  us  to  go,  telling  us  that  the  waters  were  so  raised 
with  the  rains  that  the  horses  should  be  taken  by  such  as 
were  better  acquainted  with  the  fording-places.  We,  there- 
fore, with  several  Indians,  went  in  the  canoes,  and  others 
went  on  horses,  there  being  seven  besides  ours.  We  met 
with  the  horsemen  once  on  the  way  by  appointment,  and  at 
night  we  lodged  a  little  below  a  branch  called  Tankhannah, 
and  some  of  the  young  men,  going  out  a  little  before  dusk 
with  their  guns,  brought  in  a  deer. 

Through  diligence  we  reached  Wyoming  before  night,  the 
22d,  and  understood  that  the  Indians  were  mostly  gone  from 
this  place.  We  went  up  a  small  creek  into  the  woods  with 
our  canoes,  and,  pitching  our  tent,  carried  out  our  baggage, 
and  before  dark  our  horses  came  to  us.  Next  morning,  the 
horses  being  loaded  and  our  baggage  prepared,  we  set  for- 
ward, being  in  all  fourteen,  and  with  diligent  travelling  were 
favored  to  get  near  half-way  to  Fort  Allen.  The  land  on 
this  road  from  Wyoming  to  our  frontier  being  mostly  poor, 
and  good  grass  being  scarce,  the  Indians  chose  a  piece  of 
low  ground  to  lodge  on,  as  the  best  for  grazing.  I  had 
sweat  much  in  travelling,  and,  being  weary,  slept  soundly. 
In  the  night  I  perceived  that  I  had  taken  cold,  of  which  I 
was  favored  soon  to  get  better. 

Twenty-fourth  of  sixth  month. — This  day  we  passed  Fort 
Allen  and  lodged  near  it  in  the  woods.  We  forded  the 
westerly  branch  of  the  Delaware  three  times,  which  was  a 
shorter  way  than  going  over  the  top  of  the  Blue  Mountains 
called  the  Second  Ridge.  In  the  second  time  of  fording 
where  the  river  cuts  through  the  mountain,  the  waters  being 


280  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

rapid  and  pretty  deep,  my  companion's  mare,  being  a  tall, 
tractable  animal,  was  sundry  times  driven  back  through  the 
river,  being  laden  with  the  burdens  of  some  small  horses 
which  were  thought  unable  to  come  through  with  their  loads. 
The  troubles  westward,  and  the  difficulty  for  Indians  to 
pass  through  our  frontier,  was,  I  apprehend,  one  reason  why 
so  many  came,  expecting  that  our  being  in  company  would 
prevent  the  outside  inhabitants  being  surprised.  We  reached 
Bethlehem  on  the  25th,  taking  care  to  keep  foremost,  and 
to  acquaint  people  on  and  near  the  road  who  these  Indians 
were.  This  we  found  very  needful,  for  the  frontier  in- 
habitants were  often  alarmed  at  the  report  of  the  English 
being  killed  by  Indians  westward.  Among  our  company  were 
some  whom  I  did  not  remember  to  have  seen  at  meeting, 
and  some  of  these  at  first  were  very  reserved;  but  we  being 
several  days  together,  and  behaving  in  a  friendly  manner 
towards  them,  and  making  them  suitable  return  for  the 
services  they  did  us,  they  became  more  free  and  sociable. 

Twenty-sixth  of  sixth  month. — Having  carefully  endeav- 
ored to  settle  all  affairs  with  the  Indians  relative  to  our 
journey,  we  took  leave  of  them,  and  I  thought  they  generally 
parted  from  us  affectionately.  We  went  forward  to  Rich- 
land and  had  a  very  comfortable  meeting  among  our  friends, 
it  being  the  first  day  of  the  week.  Here  I  parted  with  my 
kind  friend  and  companion  Benjamin  Parvin,  and,  accom- 
panied by  my  friend  Samuel  Foulk,  we  rode  to  John  Cad- 
wallader's,  from  whence  I  reached  home  the  next  day,  and 
found  my  family  tolerably  well.  They  and  my  friends  ap- 
peared glad  to  see  me  return  from  a  journey  which  they 
apprehended  would  be  dangerous;  but  my  mind,  while  I 
was  out,  had  been  so  employed  in  striving  for  perfect  resig- 
nation, and  had  so  often  been  confirmed  in  a  belief,  that, 
whatever  the  Lord  might  be  pleased  to  allot  for  me,  it  would 
work  for  good,  that  I  was  careful  lest  I  should  admit  any 
degree  of  selfishness  in  being  glad  overmuch,  and  labored 
to  improve  by  those  trials  in  such  a  manner  as  my  gracious 
Father  and  Protector  designed.  Between  the  English  set- 
tlements and  Wehaloosing  we  had  only  a  narrow  path,  which 
in  many  places  is  much  grown  up  with  bushes,  and  inter- 
rupted by  abundance  of  trees  lying  across  it.    These,  to- 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN             281  1 

I 

gether  with  the  mountain  swamps  and  rough  stones,  make  i 

it  a  difficult  road  to  travel,  and  the  more  so  because  rattle-  j 

snakes  abound  here,  of  which  we  killed  four.     People  yrho  i 

have  never  been  in  such  places  have  but  an  imperfect  idea  , 

of  them;  and  I  was  not  only  taught  patience,  but  also  made  I 

thankful  to   God,  who  thus  led  about  and  instructed  me,  | 

that  I  might  have  a  quick  and  lively  feeling  of  the  afflictions  i 

of  my  fellow-creatures,  whose  situation  in  life  is  difiScult.  j 


CHAPTER  IX 
1753-1769 

•Religious  Conversation  with  a  Company  met  to  see  the  Tricks  of  a 
Juggler — Account  of  John  Smith's  Advice  and  of  the  Proceed- 
ings of  a  Committee  at  the  Yearly  Meeting  in  1764 — Contempla- 
tions on  the  Nature  of  True  Wisdom — Visit  to  the  Families  of 
Friends  at  Mount  Holly,  Mansfield,  and  Burlington,  and  to  the 
Meetings  on  the  Sea-Coast  from  Cape  May  towards  Squan — 
Some  Account  of  Joseph  Nichols  and  his  Followers — On  the 
different  State  of  the  First  Settlers  in  Pennsylvania  who  de- 
pended on  their  own  Labor,  compared  with  those  of  the  South- 
ern Provinces  who  kept  Negroes — Visit  to  the  Northern  Parts 
of  New  Jersey  and  the  Western  Parts  of  Maryland  and  Penn- 
sylvania ;  also  to  the  Families  of  Friends  at  Mount  Holly  and 
several  Parts  of  Maryland — Further  Considerations  on  keep- 
ing Slaves,  and  his  Concern  for  having  been  a  Party  to  the 
Sale  of  One — Thoughts  on  Friends  exercising  Offices  in  Civil 
Government. 

I  HE  latter  part  of  the  summer,  1763,  there  came  a  man 
to  Mount  Holly  who  had  previously  published  a 
printed  advertisement  that  at  a  certain  public-house 
he  vi^ould  show  many  wonderful  operations,  which  were 
therein  enumerated.  At  the  appointed  time  he  did,  by  sleight 
of  hand,  perform  sundry  things  which  appeared  strange  to 
the  spectators.  Understanding  that  the  show  was  to  be  re- 
peated the  next  night,  and  that  the  people  were  to  meet 
about  sunset,  I  felt  an  exercise  on  that  account.  So  I  went 
to  the  public-house  in  the  evening,  and  told  the  man  of  the 
house  that  I  had  an  inclination  to  spend  a  part  of  the 
evening  there;  with  which  he  signified  that  he  was  content. 
Then,  sitting  down  by  the  door,  I  spoke  to  the  people  in  the 
fear  of  the  Lord,  as  they  came  together,  concerning  this 
show,  and  labored  to  convince  them  that  their  thus  assem- 
bling  to  see  these  sleight-of-hand  tricks,  and  bestowing  their 
money  to  support  men  who,  in  that  capacity,  were  of  no 

282 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  283 

use  to  the  world,  was  contrary  to  the  nature  of  the  Christian 
religion.  One  of  the  company  endeavored  to  show  by  argu- 
ments the  reasonableness  of  their  proceedings  herein;  but 
after  considering  some  texts  of  Scripture  and  calmly  debat- 
ing the  matter  he  gave  up  the  point.  After  spending  about 
an  hour  among  them,  and  feeling  ray  mind  easy,  I  departed. 
Twenty-fifth*  of  ninth  month,  1764. — At  our  Yearly  Meet- 
ing at  Philadelphia  this  day,  John  Smith,  of  Marlborough, 
aged  upwards  of  eighty  years,  a  faithful  minister,  though 
not  eloquent,  stood  up  in  our  meeting  of  ministers  and  elders, 
and,  appearing  to  be  under  a  great  exercise  of  spirit,  in- 
formed Friends  in  substance  as  follows :  "  That  he  had  been 
a  member  of  our  Society  upwards  of  sixty  years,  and  he 
well  remembered,  that,  in  those  early  times,  Friends  were 
a  plain,  lowly-minded  people,  and  that  there  was  much 
tenderness  and  contrition  in  their  meetings.  That,  at  twenty 
years  from  that  time,  the  Society  increasing  in  wealth  and 
in  some  degree  conforming  to  the  fashions  of  the  world, 
true  humility  was  less  apparent,  and  their  meetings  in  gen- 
eral were  not  so  lively  and  edifying.  That  at  the  end 
of  forty  years  many  of  them  were  grown  very  rich,  and 
many  of  the  Society  made  a  specious  appearance  in  the 
world;  that  wearing  fine  costly  garments,  and  using 
silver  and  other  watches,  became  customary  with  them,  their 
sons,  and  their  daughters.  These  marks  of  outward  wealth 
and  greatness  appeared  on  some  in  our  meetings  of  ministers 
and  elders;  and,  as  such  things  became  more  prevalent,  so 
the  powerful  overshadowings  of  the  Holy  Ghost  were  less 
manifest  in  the  Society.  That  there  Had  been  a  continued 
increase  of  such  ways  of  life,  even  until  the  present  time; 
and  that  the  weakness  which  hath  now  overspread  the  So- 
ciety and  the  barrenness  manifest  among  us  is  matter  of 
much  sorrow."  He  then  mentioned  the  uncertainty  of  his 
attending  these  meetings  in  future,  expecting  his  dissolution 
was  near;  and,  having  tenderly  expressed  his  concern  for 
us,  signified  that  he  had  seen  in  the  true  light  that  the 
Lord  would  bring  back  his  people  from  these  things,  into 
which  they  were  thus  degenerated,  but  that  his  faithful  ser- 
vants must  go  through  great  and  heavy  exercises. 

*[  Twenttethf—Ed.\ 


284  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

Twentieth*  of  ninth  month. — The  committee  appointed  by 
the  Yearly  Meeting  to  visit  the  Quarterly  and  Monthly 
Meetings  gave  an  account  in  writing  of  their  proceedings  in 
that  service.  They  signified  that  in  the  course  of  the  visit 
they  had  been  apprehensive  that  some  persons  holding  offices 
in  government  inconsistent  with  our  principles,  and  others 
who  kept  slaves,  remaining  active  members  in  our  meetings 
for  discipline,  had  been  one  means  of  weakness  prevailing 
in  some  places.  After  this  report  was  read,  an  exercise  re- 
vived in  my  mind  which  had  attended  me  for  several  years, 
and  inward  cries  to  the  Lord  were  raised  in  me  that  the 
fear  of  man  might  not  prevent  me  from  doing  what  he  re- 
quired of  me,  and,  standing  up,  I  spoke  in  substance  as  fol- 
lows :  "  I  have  felt  a  tenderness  in  my  mind  towards  persons 
in  two  circumstances  mentioned  in  that  report;  nam.ely, 
towards  such  active  members  as  keep  slaves  and  such  as 
hold  offices  in  civil  government;  and  I  have  desired  that 
Friends,  in  all  their  conduct,  may  be  kindly  affectioned  one 
towards  another.  Many  Friends  who  keep  slaves  are  under 
some  exercise  on  that  account;  and  at  times  think  about 
trying  them  with  freedom,  but  find  many  things  in  their 
way.  The  way  of  living  and  the  annual  expenses  of  some 
of  them  are  such  that  it  seems  impracticable  for  them  to 
set  their  slaves  free  without  changing  their  own  way  of  life. 
It  has  been  my  lot  to  be  often  abroad;  and  I  have  observed 
in  some  places,  at  Quarterly  and  Yearly  Meetings,  and  at 
some  houses  where  travelling  Friends  and  their  horses  are 
often  entertained,  that  the  yearly  expense  of  individuals 
therein  is  very  considerable.  And  Friends  in  some  places 
crowding  much  on  persons  in  these  circumstances  for  en- 
tertainment hath  rested  as  a  burden  on  my  mind  for  some 
years  past.  I  now  express  it  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  greatly 
desiring  that  Friends  here  present  may  duly  consider  it." 

In  the  fall  of  this  year,  having  hired  a  man  to  work,  I 
perceived  in  conversation  with  him  that  he  had  been  a 
soldier  in  the  late  war  on  this  continent;  and  he  informed 
me  in  the  evening,  in  a  narrative  of  his  captivity  among 
the  Indians,  that  he  saw  two  of  his  fellow-captives  tortured 
to  death  in  a  very  cruel  manner.    This  relation  affected  me 

•  [  Twmty-HUh?-Ed.\ 


THE   JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  285 

with  sadness,  under  which  I  went  to  bed;  and  the  next 
morning,  soon  after  I  awoke,  a  fresh  and  living  sense  of 
Divine  love  overspread  my  mind,  in  which  I  had  a  renewed 
prospect  of  the  nature  of  that  wisdom  from  above  which 
leads  to  a  right  use  of  all  gifts,  both  spiritual  and  temporal, 
and  gives  content  therein.  Under  a  feeling  thereof,  I  wrote 
as  follows: — 

"  Hath  He  who  gave  me  a  being  attended  with  many 
wants  unknown  to  brute  creatures  given  me  a  capacity  supe- 
rior to  theirs,  and  shown  me  that  a  moderate  application  to 
business  is  suitable  to  my  present  condition;  and  that  this, 
attended  with  his  blessing,  may  supply  all  my  outward 
wants  while  they  remain  within  the  bounds  he  hath  fixed, 
and  while  no  imaginary  wants  proceeding  from  an  evil  spirit 
have  any  place  in  me  ?  Attend  then,  O  my  soul !  to  this 
pure  wisdom  as  thy  sure  conductor  through  the  manifold 
dangers  of  this  world. 

"  Doth  pride  lead  to  vanity  ?  Doth  vanity  form  imaginary 
wants?  Do  these  wants  prompt  men  to  exert  their  power 
in  requiring  more  from  others  than  they  would  be  willing 
to  perform  themselves,  were  the  same  required  of  them? 
Do  these  proceedings  beget  hard  thoughts?  Do  hard" 
thoughts,  w^hen  ripe,  become  malice?  Does  malice,  when 
ripe,  become  revengeful,  and  in  the  end  inflict  terrible  pains 
on  our  fellow-creatures  and  spread  desolations  in  the  world? 

"  Do  mankind,  walking  in  uprightness,  delight  in  each 
other's  happiness?  And  do  those  who  are  capable  of  this 
attainment,  by  giving  way  to  an  evil  spirit,  employ  their  skill 
and  strength  to  afflict  and  destroy  one  another?  Remember 
then,  O  my  soul !  the  quietude  of  those  in  whom  Christ 
governs,  and  in  all  thy  proceedings  feel  after  it. 

"  Doth  he  condescend  to  bless  thee  with  his  presence  ?  To 
move  and  influence  thes  to  action?  To  dwell  and  to  walk 
in  thee?  Remember  tlien  thy  station  as  being  sacred  to 
God.  Accept  of  the  strength  freely  offered  to  thee,  and  take 
heed  that  no  weakness  in  conforming  to  unwise,  expensive, 
and  hard-hearted  customs,  gendering  to  discord  and  strife, 
be  given  way  to.  Doth  he  claim  my  body  as  his  temple,  and 
graciously  require  that  I  may  be  sacred  to  him?  O  that  I 
may  prize  this  favor,  and  that  ^y  whole  life  may  be  con- 


286  THE   JOURNAL  OF   JOHN   WOOLMAN 

formable  to  this  character !  Remember,  O  my  soul !  that 
the  Prince  of  Peace  is  thy  Lord;  that  he  communicates  his 
unmixed  wisdom  to  his  family,  that  they,  living  in  perfect 
simplicity,  may  give  no  just  cause  of  offence  to  any  creature, 
but  that  they  may  walk  as  He  walked  !" 

Having  felt  an  openness  in  my  heart  towards  visiting 
families  in  our  own  meeting,  and  especially  in  the  town  of 
Mount  Holly,  the  place  of  my  abode,  I  mentioned  it  at  our 
Monthly  Meeting  in  the  fore  part  of  the  winter  of  1764, 
which  being  agreed  to,  and  several  Friends  of  our  meeting 
being  united  in  the  exercise,  we  proceeded  therein;  and 
through  Divine  favor  we  were  helped  in  the  work,  so  that 
it  appeared  to  me  as  a  fresh  reviving  of  godly  care  among 
Friends.  The  latter  part  of  the  samxC  winter  I  joined  my 
friend  William  Jones  in  a  visit  to  Friends'  families  in  Mans- 
field, in  which  labor  I  had  cause  to  admire  the  goodness  of 
the  Lord  toward  us. 

'\  My  mind  being  drawn  towards  Friends  along  the  sea- 
coast  from  Cape  May  to  near  Squan,  and  also  to  visit  some 
people  in  those  parts,  among  whom  there  is  no  settled  wor- 
ship, I  joined  with  my  beloved  friend  Benjamin  Jones  in  a 
visit  to  them,  having  Friends'  unity  therein.  We  set  off  the 
24th  of  tenth  month,  1765,  and  had  a  prosperous  and  very 
satisfactory  journey,  feeling  at  times,  through  the  goodness 
of  the  Heavenly  Shepherd,  the  gospel  to  flow  freely  towards 
a  poor  people  scattered  in  these  places.  Soon  after  our  re- 
turn I  joined  my  friends  John  Sleeper  and  Elizabeth  Smith 
in  a  visit  to  Friends'  families  at  Burlington,  there  being  at 
this  time  about  fifty  families  of  our  Society  in  that  city; 
and  we  had  cause  humbly  to  adore  our  Heavenly  Father, 
who  baptized  us  into  a  feeling  of  the  state  of  the  people,  and 
strengthened  us  to  labor  in  true  gospel  love  among  them. 

Having  had  a  concern  at  times  for  several  years  to  pay 
a  religious  visit  to  Friends  on  the  Eastern  Shore  of  Mary- 
land, and  to  travel  on  foot  among  them,  that  by  so  travelling 
I  might  have  a  more  lively  feeling  of  the  condition  of  the 
oppressed  slaves,  set  an  example  of  lowliness  before  the  eyes 
of  their  masters,  and  be  more  out  of  the  way  of  temptation 
to  unprofitable  converse;  and  the  time  drawing  near  in 
which  I  believed  it  my  duty  to  lay  my  concern  before  our 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  287 

Monthly  Meeting,  I  perceived,  in  conversation  with  my  be- 
loved friend  John  Sleeper,  that  he  also  was  under  a  similar 
concern  to  travel  on  foot  in  the  form  of  a  servant  among 
them,  as  he  expressed  it.  This  he  told  me  before  he  knew 
aught  of  my  exercise.  Being  thus  drawn  the  same  way,  we 
laid  our  exercise  and  the  nature  of  it  before  Friends;  and, 
obtaining  certificates,  we  set  off  the  6th  of  fifth  month, 
1766,  and  were  at  meetings  with  Friends  at  Wilmington, 
Duck  Creek,  Little  Creek,  and  Motherkill.  My  heart  was 
often  tendered  under  the  Divine  influence,  and  enlarged  in 
love  towards  the  people  among  whom  we  travelled. 

From  Motherkill  we  crossed  the  country  about  thirty-five 
miles  to  Tuckahoe,  in  Maryland,  and  had  a  meeting  there, 
and  also  at  Marshy  Creek.  At  the  last  three  meetings  there 
were  a  considerable  number  of  the  followers  of  one  Joseph 
Nichols,  a  preacher,  who,  I  understand,  is  not  in  outward 
fellowship  with  any  religious  society,  but  professeth  nearly 
the  same  principles  as  those  of  our  Society,  and  often  travels 
up  and  down,  appointing  meetings  vv^hich  many  people 
attend.  I  heard  of  some  who  had  been  irreligious  people 
that  were  now  his  followers,  and  were  become  sober,  well- 
behaved  men  and  women.  Some  irregularities,  I  hear,  have 
been  among  the  people  at  several  of  his  meetings ;  but  from 
what  I  have  perceived  I  believe  the  man  and  some  of  his 
followers  are  honestly  disposed,  but  that  skilful  fathers  are 
wanting  among  them.. 

We  then  went  to  Choptank  and  Third  Haven,  and  thence 
to  Queen  Anne's.  The  weather  for  some  days  past  having 
been  hot  and  dry,  and  we  having  travelled  pretty  steadily  and 
having  hard  labor  in  meetings,  I  grew  weakly,  at  which 
I  was  for  a  time  discouraged;  but  looking  over  our  journey 
and  considering  how  the  Lord  had  supported  our  minds  and 
bodies,  so  that  we  had  gone  forward  m^uch  faster  than  I 
expected  before  we  came  out,  I  sav7  that  I  had  been  in 
danger  of  too  strongly  desiring  to  get  quickly  through  the 
journey,  and  that  the  bodily  weakness  now  attending  me 
was  a  kindness;  and  then,  in  contrition  of  spirit,  I  became 
very  thankful  to  my  gracious  Father  for  this  manifestation 
of  his  love,  and  in  humble  submission  to  his  will  my  trust  in 
him  was  renewed. 


288  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

In  this  part  of  our  journey  I  had  many  thoughts  on  the 
'different  circumstances  of  Friends  who  inhabit  Pennsyl- 
vania and  Jersey  from  those  who  dwell  in  Maryland,  Vir- 
ginia, and  Carolina.  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey  were 
settled  by  Friends  who  were  convinced  of  our  principles  in 
England  in  times  of  suffering;  these,  coming  over,  bought 
lands  of  the  natives,  and  applied  to  husbandry  in  a  peaceable 
way,  and  many  of  their  children  were  taught  to  labor  for  their 
living.  Few  of  these,  I  believe,  settled  in  any  of  the  southern 
provinces;  but  by  the  faithful  labors  of  travelling  Friends 
in  early  times  there  was  considerable  convincement  among 
the  inhabitants  of  these  parts.  I  also  remembered  having 
read  of  the  warlike  disposition  of  many  of  the  first  settlers 
in  those  provinces,  and  of  their  numerous  engagements  with 
the  natives  in  which  much  blood  was  shed  even  in  the  in- 
fancy of  the  colonies.  Some  of  the  people  inhabiting  those 
places,  being  grounded  in  customs  contrary  to  the  pure 
truth,  were  affected  with  the  powerful  preaching  of  the 
Word  of  Life  and  joined  in  fellowship  with  our  Society, 
and  in  so  doing  they  had  a  great  work  to  go  through.  In 
the  history  of  the  reformation  from  Popery  it  is  observable 
that  the  progress  was  gradual  from  age  to  age.  The  up- 
rightness of  the  first  reformers  in  attending  to  the  light  and 
understanding  given  to  them  opened  the  way  for  sincere- 
hearted  people  to  proceed  further  afterwards ;  and  thus  each 
one  truly  fearing  God  and  laboring  in  the  works  of  right- 
eousness appointed  for  him  in  his  day  findeth  acceptance 
with  Him.  Through  the  darkness  of  the  times  and  the  cor- 
ruption of  manners  and  customs,  some  upright  men  may 
have  had  little  more  for  their  day's  work  than  to  attend  to 
the  righteous  principle  in  their  minds  as  it  related  to  their 
own  conduct  in  life  without  pointing  out  to  others  the  whole 
extent  of  that  into  v/hich  the  same  principle  would  lead  suc- 
ceeding ages.  Thus,  for  instance,  among  an  imperious,  war- 
like people,  supported  by  oppressed  slaves,  some  of  these 
masters,  I  suppose,  are  awakened  to  feel  and  to  see  their 
error,  and  through  sincere  repentance  cease  from  oppression 
and  become  like  fathers  to  their  servants,  showing  by  their 
example  a  pattern  of  humility  in  living,  and  moderation  in 
governing,    for    the    instruction    and   admonition    of    their 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  289 

Oppressing  neighbors;  these,  without  carrying  the  reforma- 
tion further,  have,  I  believe,  found  acceptance  with  the  Lord. 
Such  was  the  beginning;  and  those  who  succeeded  them, 
and  who  faithfully  attended  to  the  nature  and  spirit  of  the 
reformation,  have  seen  the  necessity  of  proceeding  forward, 
and  have  not  only  to  instruct  others  by  their  own  example 
in  governing  well,  but  have  also  to  use  means  to  prevent  their 
successors  from  having  so  much  power  to  oppress  others. 

Here  I  was  renewedly  confirmed  in  my  mind  that  the 
Lord  {whose  tender  mercies  are  over  all  his  works,  and 
whose  ear  is  open  to  the  cries  and  groans  of  the  oppressed) 
is  graciously  moving  in  the  hearts  of  people  to  draw  them 
off  from  the  desire  of  wealth  and  to  bring  them  into  such  an 
humble,  lowly  v/ay  of  living  that  they  may  see  their  way 
clearly  to  repair  to  the  standard  of  true  righteousness,  and 
may  not  only  break  the  yoke  of  oppression,  but  may  know 
him  to  be  their  strength  and  support  in  times  of  outward 
affliction. 

We  crossed  Chester  River,  had  a  meeting  there,  and  also 
at  Cecil  and  Sassafras.  My  bodily  weakness,  joined  with  a 
heavy  exercise  of  mind,  was  to  me  an  humbling  dispensa- 
tion, and  I  had  a  very  lively  feeling  of  t^e  state  of  the  op- 
pressed; yet  I  often  thought  that  what  I  s«uffered  was  little 
compared  with  the  sufferings  of  the  blessed  Jesus  and  many 
of  his  faithful  followers;  and  I  may  say  with  thankfulness 
that  I  was  made  content.  From  Sassafras  we  went  pretty 
directly  home,  where  we  found  our  families  well.  For  sev- 
eral weeks  after  our  return  I  had  often  to  look  over  our 
journey;  and  though  to  me  it  appeared  as  a  small  service, 
and  that  some  faithful  messengers  will  yet  have  more  bitter 
cups  to  drink  in  those  southern  provinces  for  Christ's  sake 
than  we  have  had,  yet  I  found  peace  in  that  I  had  been 
helped  to  walk  in  sincerity  according  to  the  understanding 
and  strength  given  to  me. 

Thirteenth  of  eleventh  month. — With  the  unity  of  Friends 
at  our  monthly  meeting,  and  in  company  with  my  beloved 
friend  Benjamin  Jones,  I  set  out  on  a  visit  to  Friends  in  the 
upper  part  of  this  province,  having  had  drawings  of  love  in 
my  heart  that  w^ay  for  a  considerable  time.  We  travelled 
as  far  as  Hardwick,  and  I  had  inward  peace  in  my  labo3r» 

10  HC— Vol.  1 


290  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

of  love  among  them.  Through  the  humbling  dispensations  o£ 
Divine  Providence  my  mind  hath  been  further  brought  into 
a  feeling  of  the  difficulties  of  Friends  and  their  servants 
southv/estward ;  and  being  often  engaged  in  spirit  on  their 
account  I  believed  it  my  duty  to  walk  into  some  parts  of 
the  western  shore  of  Maryland  on  a  religious  visit.  Having 
obtained  a  certificate  from  Friends  of  our  Monthly  Meeting, 
I  took  leave  of  my  family  under  the  heart-tendering  opera- 
tion of  truth,  and  on  the  20th  of  fourth  month,  1767,  rode 
to  the  ferry  opposite  to  Philadelphia,  and  thence  walked  to 
William  Home's,  at  Derby,  the  same  evening.  Next  day  I 
pursued  my  journey  alone  and  reached  Concord  Week-Day 
Meeting. 

Discouragements  and  a  v/eight  of  distress  had  at  times 
attended  me  in  this  lonesome  walk,  but  through  these  afflic- 
tions I  was  m.ercifully  preserved.  Sitting  down  with 
Friends,  m.y  mind  was  turned  towards  the  Lord  to  wait  for 
his  holy  leadings;  and  in  infinite  love  he  was  pleased  to 
soften  my  heart  into  humble  contrition,  and  renev/edly  to 
strengthen  me  to  go  forv^^ard,  so  that  to  me  it  was  a  time  of 
heavenly  refreshment  in  a  silent  meeting.  The  next  day  I 
came  to  Nev^  Garden  Week-Day  Meeting,  in  which  I  sat  in 
bowedness  of  spirit,  and  being  baptized  into  a  feeling  of  the 
state  of  some  present,  the  Lord  gave  us  a  heart-tendering 
season ;  to  his  name  be  the  praise.  Passing  on,  I  was  at 
Nottingham  Monthly  Meeting,  and  at  a  m.eeting  at  Little 
Britain  on  first-day;  in  the  afternoon  several  Friends  came 
to  the  house  where  I  lodged  and  we  had  a  little  afternoon 
meeting,  and  through  the  humbling  power  of  truth  I  had  to 
admire  the  loving-kindness  of  the  Lord  manifested  to  us. 

Twenty-sixth  of  fourth  month. — I  crossed  the  Susque- 
hanna, and  coming  among  people  in  outward  ease  and 
greatness,  supported  chiefly  on  the  labor  of  slaves,  my  heart 
was  much  affected,  and  in  awful  retiredness  my  mind  was 
gathered  inward  to  the  Lord^  humbly  desiring  that  in  true 
resignation  I  might  receive  instruction  from  him  respecting 
my  duty  among  this  people.  Though  travelling  on  foot  was 
wearisome  to  my  body,  yet  it  was  agreeable  to  the  state  of 
my  mind.  Being  weakly,  I  was  covered  with  sorrow  and 
heaviness  on  account  of  the  prevailing  spirit  of  this  world 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  291 

hj  which  customs  grievous  and  oppressive  are  introduced 
on  the  one  hand,  and  pride  and  wantonness  on  the  other. 

In  this  lonely  walk  and  state  of  abasement  and  humiliation, 
the  condition  of  the  church  in  these  parts  was  opened  before 
me,  and  I  may  truly  say  with  the  Prophet,  "  I  was  bowed 
down  at  the  hearing  of  it;  I  was  dismayed  at  the  seeing 
of  it."  Under  this  exercise  I  attended  the  Quarterly  Meet- 
ing at  Gunpowder,  and  in  bowedness  of  spirit  I  had  to  express 
with  much  plainness  my  feelings  respecting  Friends  living 
in  fulness  on  the  labors  of  the  poor  oppressed  negroes ;  and 
that  promise  of  the  Most  High  was  now  revived,  "  I  will 
gather  all  nations  and  tongues,  and  they  shall  come  and  see 
my  glory."  Here  the  sufferings  of  Christ  and  his  tasting 
death  for  every  man,  and  the  travels,  sufferings,  and  martyr- 
dom of  the  Apostles  and  primitive  Christians  in  laboring  for 
the  conversion  of  the  Gentiles,  were  livingly  revived  in  me, 
and  according  to  the  measure  of  strength  afforded  I  labored 
in  some  tenderness  of  spirit,  being  deeply  affected  among 
them.  The  difference  between  the  present  treatment  which 
these  gentiles,  the  negroes,  receive  at  our  hands,  and  the 
labors  of  the  primitive  Christians  for  the  conversion  of  the 
Gentiles,  were  pressed  home,  and  the  power  of  truth  came 
over  us,  under  a  feeling  of  which  my  mind  was  united  to 
a  tender-hearted  people  in  these  parts.  The  meeting  con- 
cluded in  a  sense  of  God's  goodness  towards  his  humble, 
dependent  children. 

The  next  day  was  a  general  meeting  for  worship,  much 
crowded,  in  which  I  was  deeply  engaged  in  inward  cries  to 
the  Lord  for  help,  that  I  might  stand  wholly  resigned,  and 
move  only  as  he  might  be  pleased  to  lead  me.  I  was  merci- 
fully helped  to  labor  honestly  and  fervently  among  them,  in 
which  I  found  inward  peace,  and  the  sincere  were  com- 
forted. From  this  place  I  turned  towards  Pipe  Creek  and 
the  Red  Lands,  and  had  several  meetings  among  Friends  in 
those  parts.  My  heart  was  often  tenderly  affected  under  a 
sense  of  the  Lord's  goodness  in  sanctifying  my  troubles  and 
exercises,  turning  them  to  my  comfort,  and  I  believe  to  the 
benefit  of  many  others,  for  I  may  say  with  thankfulness  that 
in  this  visit  it  appeared  like  a  tendering  visitation  in  most 
places. 


292  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

I  passed  on  to  the  Western  Quarterly  Meeting  in  Penn- 
sylvania. During  the  several  days  of  this  meeting  I  w^as 
mercifully  preserved  in  an  inward  feeling  after  the  mind  of 
truth,  and  my  public  labors  tended  to  my  humiliation,  with 
which  I  was  content.  After  the  Quarterly  Meeting  for  wor- 
ship ended,  I  felt  drawings  to  go  to  the  women's  meeting  for 
business,  v/hich  was  very  full;  here  the  humility  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  a  pattern  for  us  to  walk  by  was  livingly  opened 
before  me,  and  in  treating  on  it  my  heart  was  enlarged,  and 
it  was  a  baptizing  time.  I  was  afterwards  at  meetings  at 
Concord,  Middletown,  Providence,  and  Haddonfield,  whence 
I  returned  home  and  found  my  family  well.  A  sense  of  the 
Lord's  merciful  preservation  in  this  my  journey  excites 
reverent  thankfulness  to  him. 

Second  of  ninth  month,  1767. — With  the  unity  of  Friends, 
I  set  off  on  a  visit  to  Friends  in  the  upper  part  of  Berks 
and  Philadelphia  counties;  was  at  eleven  meetings  in  about 
two  weeks,  and  have  renewed  cause  to  bow  in  reverence 
before  the  Lord,  who,  by  the  powerful  extendings  of  his 
humbling  goodness,  opened  my  way  among  Friends,  and  I 
trust  made  the  meetings  profitable  to  us.  The  following 
winter  I  joined  some  Friends  in  a  family  visit  to  some  part 
of  our  meeting,  in  which  exercise  the  pure  influence  of 
Divine  love  made  our  visits  reviving. 

Fifth  of  fifth  month,  1768. — I  left  home  under  the  hum- 
bling hand  of  the  Lord,  with  a  certificate  to  visit  some  meet- 
ings in  Maryland,  and  to  proceed  without  a  horse  seemed 
clearest  to  me.  I  was  at  the  Quarterly  Meetings  at  Phila- 
delphia and  Concord,  whence  I  proceeded  to  Chester  River, 
and,  crossing  the  bay,  was  at  the  Yearly  Meeting  at  West 
River;  I  then  returned  to  Chester  River,  and,  taking  a  few 
meetings  in  my  way,  proceeded  home.  It  was  a  journey  of 
much  inward  waiting,  and  as  my  eye  was  to  the  Lord,  way 
was  several  times  opened  to  my  humbling  admiration  when 
things  appeared  very  difiicult.  On  my  return  I  felt  a  very 
comfortable  relief  of  mind,  having  through  Divine  help 
labored  in  much  plainness,  both  with  Friends  selected  and  in 
the  more  public  meetings,  so  that  I  trust  the  pure  witness 
m  many  minds  was  reached. 

Eleventh  of  sixth  month,  1769.— -There  have  been  sundry 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  293 

cases  of  late  years  within  the  limits  of  our  Monthly  Meet- 
ing, respecting  the  exercising  of  pure  righteousness  towards 
the  negroes,  in  which  I  have  lived  under  a  labor  of  heart 
that  equity  might  be  steadily  preserved.  On  this  account 
I  have  had  some  close  exercises  among  Friends,  in  which, 
I  may  thankfully  say,  I  find  peace.  And  as  my  meditations 
have  been  on  universal  love,  my  own  conduct  in  time  past 
became  of  late  v^ry  grievous  to  me.  As  persons  setting 
negroes  free  in  our  province  are  bound  by  law  to 
maintain  them  in  case  they  have  need  of  relief,  some  in 
the  time  of  my  youth  who  scrupled  to  keep  slaves  for 
term  of  life  were  wont  to  detain  their  young  negroes  in 
their  service  without  wages  till  they  were  thirty  years  ol 
age.  With  this  custom  I  so  far  agreed  that  being  joined 
with  another  Friend  in  executing  the  will  of  a  deceased 
Friend,  I  once  sold  a  negro  lad  till  he  might  attain  the 
age  of  thirty  years,  and  applied  the  money  to  the  use  of 
the  estate. 

With  abasement  of  heart  I  may  now  say  that  sometimes 
as  I  have  sat  in  a  meeting  with  my  heart  exercised  towards 
that  awful  Being  who  respecteth  not  persons  nor  colors,  and 
have  thought  upon  this  lad,  I  have  felt  that  all  was  not 
clear  in  my  mind  respecting  him ;  and  as  I  have  attended  to 
this  exercise  and  fervently  sought  the  Lord,  it  hath  ap- 
peared to  me  that  I  should  make  some  restitution;  but  in 
what  way  I  saw  not  till  lately,  when  being  under  some  con- 
cern that  I  might  be  resigned  to  go  on  a  visit  to  some  part 
of  the  West  Indies,  and  under  close  engagement  of  spirit 
seeking  to  the  Lord  for  counsel  herein,  the  aforesaid  trans- 
action came  heavily  upon  me,  and  my  mind  for  a  time  was 
covered  with  darkness  and  sorrow.  Under  this  sore  afflic- 
tion my  heart  was  softened  to  receive  instruction,  and  I  now 
first  perceived  that  as  I  had  been  one  of  the  two  executors 
who  had  sold  this  lad  for  nine  years  longer  than  is  common 
for  our  own  children  to  serve,  so  I  should  nov7  offer  part 
of  my  substance  to  redeem  the  last  half  of  the  nine  years; 
but  as  the  time  was  not  yet  come,  I  executed  a  bond,  bind- 
ing myself  and  my  executors  to  pay  to  the  man  to  whom  he 
was  sold  what  to  candid  men  might  appear  equitable  for  the 
last  four  and  a  half  years  of  his  time,  in  case  the  said  youth 


294  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

should  be  living,  and  in  a  condition  likely  to  provide  com- 
fortably for  himself. 

Ninth  of  tenth  month. — My  heart  hath  often  been  deeply 
afHicted  under  a  feeling  that  the  standard  of  pure  righteous- 
ness is  not  lifted  up  to  the  people  by  us,  as  a  society,  in  that 
clearness  which  it  might  have  been,  had  we  been  as  faithful 
as  we  ought  to  be  to  the  teachings  of  Christ.  And  as  my 
mind  hath  been  inward  to  the  Lord,  the  purity  of  Christ's 
government  hath  been  made  clear  to  my  understanding,  and 
I  have  believed,  in  the  opening  of  universal  love,  that  where 
a  people  v/ho  are  convinced  of  the  truth  of  the  inward  teach- 
ings of  Christ  are  active  in  putting  laws  in  execution  which 
are  not  consistent  with  pure  v/isdom,  it  hath  a  necessary 
tendency  to  bring  dimness  over  their  minds.  My  heart  hav- 
ing been  thus  exercised  for  several  years  with  a  tender  sym- 
pathy towards  my  fellow-members,  I  have  v/ithin  a  few 
months  past  expressed  my  concern  on  this  subject  in  several 
meetings  for  discipline. 


CHAPTER  X 
1769,  1770 

Bodily  Indisposition — Exercise  of  his  Mind  for  the  Good  of  the 
People  in  the  West  Indies — Communicates  to  Friends  his  Con- 
cern to  visit  some  of  those  Islands — Preparations  to  embark — 
Considerations  on  the  Trade  to  the  West  Indies — Release  from 
his  Concern  and  return  Home — Religious  Engagements — Sick- 
ness, and  Exercise  of  his  Mind  therein. 

|WELFTH  of  third  month,  1769. — Having  for  some 
years  past  dieted  myself  on  account  of  illness  and 
weakness  of  body,  and  not  having  ability  to  travel 
by  land  as  heretofore,  I  was  at  times  favored  to  look  with 
awfulness  towards  the  Lord,  before  whom  are  all  my  wa3''s, 
Vv^ho  alone  hath  the  power  of  life  and  death,  and  to  feel 
thankfulness  raised  in  me  for  this  fatherly  chastisement,  be- 
lieving that  if  I  was  truly  humbled  under  it  all  would  work 
for  good.  While  under  this  bodily  weakness,  my  mind  was 
at  times  exercised  for  my  fellow-creatures  in  the  West  In- 
dies, and  I  grew  jealous  over  myself  lest  the  disagreeableness 
of  the  prospect  should  hinder  me  from  obediently  attending 
thereto;  for,  though  I  knev/  not  that  the  Lord  required  me 
to  go  there,  yet  I  believed  that  resignation  was  now  called 
for  in  th^:t  respect.  Feeling  a  danger  of  not  being  wholly 
devoted  to  him,  I  was  frequently  engaged  to  watch  unto 
prayer  that  I  might  be  preserved;  and  upwards  of  a  year 
having  passed,  as  I  one  day  walked  in  a  solitary  wood,  my 
mind  being  covered  with  awfulness,  cries  were  raised  in  me 
to  my  merciful  Father,  that  he  would  graciously  keep  me  in 
faithfulness;  and  it  then  settled  on  my  mind,  as  a  duty,  to 
open  my  condition  to  Friends  at  our  Monthly  Meeting,  which 
I  did  soon  after,  as  follows: — 

"  An  exercise  hath  attended  me  for  some  time  past,  and 

29$ 


296  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

of  late  hath  been  more  weighty  upon  me,  which  is,  tflat  I 
believe  it  is  required  of  me  to  be  resigned  to  go  on  a  visit  to 
some  parts  of  the  West  Indies."  In  the  Quarterly  and  Gen- 
eral Spring  Meetings  I  found  no  clearness  to  express  any- 
thkig  further  than  that  I  believed  resignatioia  herein 
was  required  of  me.  Having  obtained  certificates  from 
all  the  said  meetings,  I  felt  like  a  sojourner  at  my 
outward  habitation,  and  kept  free  from  worldly  encum- 
brances, and  I  was  often  bowed  in  spirit  before  the  Lord, 
with  inward  breathings  to  him  that  I  might  be  rightly 
directed.  I  may  here  note  that  the  circumstance  before  re- 
lated of  my  having,  when  young,  joined  with  another  ex- 
ecutor in  selling  a  negro  lad  till  he  might  attain  the  age  of 
thirty  years,  was  now  the  cause  of  much  sorrow  to  me ;  and, 
after  having  settled  matters  relating  to  this  youth,  I  pro- 
vided a  sea-store  and  bed,  and  things  for  the  voyage.  Hear- 
ing of  a  vessel  likely  to  sail  from  Philadelphia  for  Barbadoes, 
I  spake  with  one  of  the  owners  at  Burlington,  and  soon 
after  went  to  Philadelphia  on  purpose  to  speak  to  him  again. 
He  told  me  there  was  a  Friend  in  town  who  was  part  owner 
of  the  said  vessel.  I  felt  no  inclination  to  speak  with  the 
latter,  but  returned  home.  Awhile  after  I  took  leave  of 
my  family,  and,  going  to  Philadelphia,  had  some  weighty 
conversation  with  the  first-mentioned  owner,  and  showed  him 
a  writing,  as  follows: — 

"  On  the  25th  of  eleventh  month,  1769,  as  an  exercise 
with  respect  to  a  visit  to  Barbadoes  hath  been  weighty  on 
my  mind,  I  may  express  some  of  the  trials  which  have  at- 
tended me,  under  which  I  have  at  times  rejoiced  that  I  have 
felt  my  own  self-will  subjected. 

"  Some  years  ago  I  retailed  rum,  sugar,  and  molasses,  the 
fruits  of  the  labor  of  slaves,  but  had  not  then  much  concern 
about  them  save  only  that  the  rum  might  be  used  in  modera- 
tion; nor  was  this  concern  so  weightily  attended  to  as  I  now 
believe  it  ought  to  have  been.  Having  of  late  years  been 
further  informed  respecting  the  oppressions  too  generally 
exercised  in  these  islands,  and  thinking  often  on  the  dangers 
there  are  in  connections  of  interest  and  fellowship  with  the 
works  of  darkness  (Eph.  v.  ii),  I  have  felt  an  increasing 
concern  to  be  wholly  given  up  to  the  leadings  o:i^  the  Holy 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  297 

Spirit,  and  it  hath  seemed  right  that  my  small  gain  from 
this  branch  of  trade  shotild  be  applied  in  promoting  right- 
eousness on  the  earth.  This  was  the  first  motion  towards  a 
visit  to  Barbadoes.  I  believed  also  that  part  of  my  out- 
ward substance  should  be  applied  in  paying  my  passage,  if 
I  went,  and  providing  things  in  a  lowly  way  for  my  sub- 
sistence; but  when  the  time  drew  near  in  which  I  believed 
it  required  of  me  to  be  in  readiness,  a  difficulty  arose  which 
hath  been  a  continual  trial  for  some  months  past,  tmder 
which  I  have,  with  abasement  of  mind  from  day  to  day, 
sought  the  Lord  for  instruction,  having  often  had  a  feeling 
of  the  condition  of  one  formerly,  who  bewailed  himself  be- 
cause the  Lord  hid  his  face  from  him.  During  these  ex- 
ercises my  heart  hath  often  been  contrite,  and  I  have  had 
a  tender  feeling  of  the  temptations  of  my  fellow-creatures, 
laboring  under  expensive  customs  not  agreeable  to  the  sim- 
plicity that  'there  is  in  Christ'  (2  Cor.  ii.  3),  and  sometimes 
in  the  renewings  of  gospel  love  I  have  been  helped  to  min- 
ister to  others. 

"That  which  hath  so  closely  engaged  my  mind,  in  seeking 
to  the  Lord  for  instruction,  is,  whether,  after  the  full 
information  I  have  had  of  the  oppression  which  the  slaves 
lie  under  who  raise  the  West  India  produce,  which  I  have 
gained  by  reading  a  caution  and  warning  to  Great  Britain  and 
her  colonies,  written  by  Anthony  Benezet,  it  is  right  for  me 
to  take  passage  in  a  vessel  employed  in  the  West  India  trade. 

"  To  trade  freely  with  oppressors  without  laboring  to 
dissuade  them  from  such  unkind  treatment,  and  to  seek  for 
gain  by  such  traffic,  tends,  I  believe,  to  make  them  more 
easy  respecting  their  conduct  than  they  v/ould  be  if  the  cause 
of  mniversal  righteousness  was  humbly  and  firmly  attended 
to  hy  those  in  general  with  whom  they  have  commerce; 
and  that  complaint  of  the  Lord  by  hi-s  prophet,  "  They  have 
strengthened  the  hands  of  the  wicked,"  hath  very  often  re- 
vived in  my  mind-  I  may  here  add  some  circumstances 
which  occurred  to  me  before  I  had  any  pTospect  of  a  visit 
^here.  David  longsd  for  some  water  in  a  well  beyond  an 
army  of  Philistines  who  were  at  war  widi  Is-rael,  and  some 
of  his  men,  to  please  him,  ventured  their  lives  in  passing 
through  this  army,  and  brought  l^a-t  water. 


298  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

"It  (3otli  not  appear  that  the  Israelites  were  then  scarce 
of  water,  but  rather  that  David  gave  way  to  delicacy  of 
taste;  and  having  reflected  on  the  danger  to  which  these 
men  had  been  exposed,  he  considered  this  water  as  their 
blood,  and  his  heart  smote  him  that  he  could  not  drink  it, 
but  he  poureid  it  out  to  the  Lord.  The  oppression  of  the 
slaves  which  I  have  seen  in  several  journeys  southward  on 
this  continent,  and  the  report  of  their  treatment  in  the  West 
Indies,  have  deeply  affected  me,  and  a  care  to  live  in  the 
spirit  of  peace  and  minister  no  just  carse  of  offence  to  my 
fellow-creatures  having  from  tim.e  to  time  livingly  revived 
in  my  mind,  I  have  for  some  years  past  declined  to  gratify 
my  palate  with  those  sugars. 

"I  do  not  censure  my  brethren  in  these  things,  but  I  be- 
lieve the  Father  of  Mercies,  to  whom  all  mankind  by  creation 
are  equally  related,  hath  heard  the  groans  of  this  oppressed 
people  and  that  he  is  preparing  some  to  have  a  tender  feeling 
of  their  condition.  Trading  in  or  the  frequent  use  of  any 
produce  known  to  be  raised  by  the  labor  of  those  who  are 
under  such  lamentable  oppression  hath  appeared  to  be  a 
subject  which  may  hereafter  require  the  more  serious  con- 
sideration of  the  humble  followers  of  Christ,  the  Prince 
of  Peace. 

"After  long  and  mournful  exercise  I  am  now  free  to 
mention  how  things  have  opened  in  my  mind,  v/ith  desires 
that  if  it  may  please  the  Lord  further  to  open  his  will  to 
any  of  his  children  in  this  matter  they  may  faithfully  follow 
him  in  such  further  manifestation. 

"  The  number  of  those  who  decline  the  use  of  West  India 
produce,  on  account  of  the  hard  usage  of  the  slaves  who 
raise  it,  appears  small,  even  among  people  truly  pious ;  and 
the  labors  in  Christian  love  on  that  subject  of  those  who  do 
are  not  very  extensive.  Were  the  trade  from  this  continent 
to  the  West  Indies  to  be  stopped  at  once,  I  believe  many 
there  would  suffer  for  want  of  bread.  Did  we  on  this  con- 
tinent and  the  inhabitants  of  the  West  Indies  generally 
dwell  in  pure  righteousness,  I  believe  a  small  trade  between 
us  might  be  right.  Under  these  considerations,  when  the 
thoughts  of  wholly  declining  the  use  of  trading-vessels  and 
ol  trying  to  hire  a  vessel  to  go  under  ballast  have  arisen 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  299 

in  my  mind,  I  have  believed  that  the  labors  in  gospel  love 
hitherto  bestowed  in  the  cause  of  universal  righteousness 
have  not  reached  that  height.  If  the  trade  to  the  West  Indies 
were  no  more  than  was  consistent  with  pure  wisdom,  I  be- 
lieve the  passage-money  v/ould  for  good  reasons  be  higher 
than  it  is  now;  and  therefore,  under  deep  exercise  of  mind, 
I  have  believed  that  I  should  not  take  advantage  of  this 
great  trade  and  small  passage-money,  but,  as  a  testimony  in 
favor  of  less  trading,  should  pay  more  than  is  common  for 
others  to  pay  if  I  go  at  this  tim.e." 

The  first-mentioned  owner,  having  read  the  paper,  went 
with  me  to  the  other  ov/ner,  who  also  read  over  the  paper, 
and  we  had  some  solid  conversation,  under  which  I  felt  my- 
self bowed  in  reverence  before  the  Most  High.  At  length  one 
of  them  asked  me  if  I  would  go  and  see  the  vessel.  But 
not  having  clearness  in  my  mind  to  go,  I  went  to  my 
lodging  and  retired  in  private  under  great  exercise  of  mind; 
and  my  tears  were  poured  out  before  the  Lord  with  inward 
cries  that  he  would  graciously  help  me  under  these  trials,  I 
believe  my  mind  was  resigned,  but  I  did  not  feel  clearness 
to  proceed;  and  my  own  weakness  and  the  necessity  of 
Divine  instruction  were  impressed  upon  me. 

I  was  for  a  tim.e  as  one  who  knew  not  what  to  do  and 
was  tossed  as  in  a  tempest;  under  which  affliction  the  doc- 
trine of  Christ,  "  Take  no  thought  for  the  m.orrow,"  arose 
livingly  before  me,  and  I  was  favored  to  get  into  a  good 
degree  of  stillness.  Having  been  near  two  days  in  town, 
I  believed  my  obedience  to  my  Heavenly  Father  consisted 
in  returning  homeward;  I  therefore  went  over  among 
Friends  on  the  Jersey  shore  and  tarried  till  the  morning 
on  which  the  vessel  was  appointed  to  sail.  As  I  lay  in  bed 
the  latter  part  of  that  night  my  mind  v/as  comforted,  and 
I  felt  what  I  esteemed  a  fresh  confirmation  that  it  v^^as  the 
Lord's  will  that  I  should  pass  through  some  further  exer- 
cises near  home;  so  I  went  thither,  and  still  felt  like  a  so- 
journer with  my  family.  In  the  fresh  spring  of  pure  love 
I  had  some  labors  in  a  private  way  zmong  Friends  on  a 
subject  relating  to  truth's  testimony,  under  v/hich  I  had 
frequently  been  exercised  in  heart  for  some  years.  I  re- 
member, as  I  walked  on  the  road  under  this  exercise,  that 


300  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

passage  in  Ezekiel  came  fresh  upon  me,  "  Whithersoever 
their  faces  were  turned  thither  they  went."  And  I  was 
graciously  helped  to  discharge  my  duty  in  the  fear  and 
dread  of  the  Almighty. 

In  the  course  of  a  few  weeks  it  pleased  the  Lord  to  visit 
me  with  a  pleurisy;  and  after  I  had  lain  a  few  days  and  felt 
the  disorder  very  grievous,  I  was  thoughtful  how  it  might 
end.  I  had  of  late,  through  various  exercises,  been  much 
weaned  from  the  pleasant  things  of  this  life;  and  I  now 
thought  if  it  were  the  Lord's  will  to  put  an  end  to  my  labors 
and  graciously  to  receive  me  into  the  arms  of  his  mercy, 
death  would  be  acceptable  to  me;  but  if  it  were  his  will 
further  to  refine  me  under  affliction,  and  to  make  me  in  any 
degree  useful  in  his  church,  I  desired  not  to  die.  I  may  with 
thankfulness  say  that  in  this  case  I  felt  resignedness  wrought 
in  me  and  had  no  inclination  to  send  for  a  doctor,  believing, 
if  it  were  the  Lord's  will  through  outward  means  to  raise 
me  up,  some  sympathizing  Friends  would  be  sent  to  minister 
to  me;  which  accordingly  was  the  case.  But  though  I  was 
carefully  attended,  yet  the  disorder  was  at  times  so  heavy 
that  I  had  no  expectation  of  recovery.  One  night  in  par- 
ticular my  bodily  distress  was  great;  my  feet  grew  cold, 
and  the  cold  increased  up  my  legs  towards  my  body ;  at  that 
time  I  had  no  inclination  to  ask  my  nurse  to  apply  anything 
v^rarm  to  my  feet,  expecting  my  end  w^as  near.  After  I  had 
Iain  near  ten  hours  in  this  condition,  I  closed  my  eyes,  think- 
ing whether  I  might  now  be  delivered  out  of  the  body;  but 
in  these  awful  moments  my  mind  was  livingly  opened  to 
behold  the  church;  and  strong  engagements  were  begotten 
in  me  for  the  everlasting  well-being  of  my  fellow-creatures. 
I  felt  in  the  spring  of  pure  love  that  I  might  remain  some 
time  longer  in  the  body,  to  fill  up  according  to  my  measure 
that  which  remains  of  the  afflictions  of  Christ,  and  to  labor 
for  the  good  of  the  church;  after  which  I  requested  my 
nurse  to  apply  warmth  to  my  feet,  and  I  revived.  The  next 
night,  feeling  a  weighty  exercise  of  spirit  and  having  a 
solid  friend  sitting  up  with  me,  I  requested  him  to  write 
what  I  said,  which  he  did  as  follows: — 

"Fourth  day  of  the  first  month,  1770,  about  five  in  the 
msming.— I  have  seen  in  the  Light  of  the  Lord  that  the  day 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  301 

Is  approaching  when  the  man  that  is  most  wise  in  human 
poHcy  shall  be  the  greatest  fool ;  and  the  arm  that  is  mighty 
to  support  injustice  shall  be  broken  to  pieces;  the  enemies 
of  righteousness  shall  make  a  terrible  rattle,  and  shall 
mightily  torment  one  another;  for  He  that  is  omnipotent  is 
rising  up  to  judgment,  and  will  plead  the  cause  of  the  op- 
pressed; and  He  commanded  me  to  open  the  vision." 

Near  a  week  after  this,  feeling  my  mind  livingly  opened, 
I  sent  for  a  neighbor,  who,  at  my  request,  wrote  as  follows : — 

*' The  place  of  prayer  is  a  precious  habitation*;  for  I  now 
saw  that  the  prayers  of  the  saints  were  precious  incense; 
and  a  trumpet  was  given  to  me  that  I  might  sound  forth 
this  language ;  that  the  children  might  hear  it  and  be  invited 
together  to  this  precious  habitation,  where  the  prayers  of  the 
saints,  as  sweet  incense,  arise  before  the  throne  of  God  and 
the  Lamb.  I  saw  this  habitation  to  be  safe, — to  be  inwardly 
quiet  when  there  were  great  stirrings  and  commotions  in 
the  world. 

"  Prayer,  at  this  day,  in  pure  resignation,  is  a  precious 
place:  the  trumpet  is  sounded;  the  call  goes  forth  to  the 
church  that  she  gather  to  the  place  of  pure  inward  prayer; 
and  her  habitation  is  safe." 


CHAPTER   XI 


1772 


Embarks  at  Chester,  witli  Samtiel  Emlen,  in  a  Ship  bound  for  Lon- 
<Jon— Exercise  of  Mind  respecting  the  Hardships  of  the  Sailors 
— Considerations  on  the  Dangers  of  training  Youth  to  a  Seafaring 
Life — Thoughts  during  a  Storm  at  Sea — Arrival  in  London. 

""RAVING  been  some  time  under  a  religious  concern  to 
prepare  for  crossing  the  seas,  in  order  to  visit 
Friends  in  the  northern  parts  of  England,  and  more 
particularly  in  Yorkshire,  after  consideration  I  thought  it 
expedient  to  inform  Friends  of  it  at  our  Monthly  Meeting 
at  Burlington,  who,  having  unity  with  me  therein,  gave  me 
a  certificate.  I  afterwards  communicated  the  same  to  our 
Quarterly  Meeting,  and  they  likewise  certified  their  con- 
currence. Some  time  after,  at  the  General  Spring  Meeting 
of  ministers  and  elders,  I  thought  it  my  duty  to  acquaint 
them  with  the  religious  exercise  which  attended  my  mind; 
and  they  likewise  signified  their  unity  therewith  by  a  cer- 
tificate, dated  the  24th  of  third  month,  1772,  directed  to 
Friends  in  Great  Britain. 

In  the  fourth  month  following  I  thought  the  time  was 
come  for  me  to  make  some  inquiry  for  a  suitable  conveyance ; 
and  as  my  concern  was  principally  towards  the  northern 
parts  of  England,  it  seemed  m.ost  proper  to  go  in  a  vessel 
bound  to  Liverpool  or  Whitehaven.  While  I  was  at  Phila- 
delphia deliberating  on  this  subject  I  was  informed  that 
m.y  beloved  friend  Samuel  Emlen,  junior,  intended  to 
go  to  London,  and  had  taken  a  passage  for  himself  in 
the  cabin  of  the  ship  called  the  Mary  and  Elizabeth,  of 
which  James  Sparks  was  master,  and  John  Head,  of  the 
city  of  Philadelphia,  one  of  the  owners ;  and  feeling  a 
draught   in   my   mind   towards   the   steerage   of   the   same 

302 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  303 

stip,  I  went  first  and  opened  to  Samuel  the  feeling  I  had 
concerning  it. 

My  beloved  friend  wept  when  I  spake  to  him,  and  ap- 
peared glad  that  I  had  thoughts  of  going  in  the  vessel  with 
him,  though  my  prospect  was  toward  the  steerage:  and  he 
offering  to  go  with  m.e,  we  v/ent  on  board,  first  into  the 
cabin, — a  commodious  room, — and  then  into  the  steerage, 
where  we  sat  down  on  a  chest,  the  sailors  being  busy  about 
us.  The  owner  of  the  ship  also  came  and  sat  down  with  us. 
My  mind  was  turned  towards  Christ,  the  Heavenly  Coun- 
sellor, and  feeling  at  this  timiC  my  own  will  subjected,  my 
heart  was  contrite  before  him.  A  motion  was  made  by  the 
owner  to  go  and  sit  in  the  cabin,  as  a  place  more  retired; 
but  I  felt  easy  to  leave  the  ship,  and  making  no  agreement 
as  to  a  passage  in  her,  told  the  owner  if  I  took  a  passage  in 
the  ship  I  believed  it  would  be  in  the  steerage;  but  did  not 
say  much  as  to  my  exercise  in  that  case. 

After  I  went  to  my  lodgings,  and  the  case  was  a  little 
knov/n  in  town,  a  Friend  laid  before  me  the  great  incon- 
venience attending  a  passage  in  the  steerage,  which  for  a 
time  appeared  very  discouraging  to  me. 

I  soon  after  went  to  bed,  and  my  mind  was  under  a  deep 
exercise  before  the  Lord,  whose  helping  hand  was  mani- 
fested to  me  as  I  slept  that  night,  and  his  love  strengthened 
my  heart.  In  the  morning  I  went  with  two  Friends  on 
board  the  vessel  again,  and  after  a  short  time  spent  therein, 
I  went  with  Samuel  Emlen  to  the  house  of  the  owner,  to 
whom,  in  the  hearing  of  Samuel  only,  I  opened  my  exercise 
in  relation  to  a  scruple  I  felt  with  regard  to  a  passage  in 
the  cabin,  in  substance  as  follows  :— 

"  That  on  the  outside  of  that  part  of  the  ship  where  the 
cabin  was  I  observed  sundry  sorts  of  carved  VN^ork  and 
imiagery;  that  in  the  cabin  I  observed  some  superfluity  of 
workmianship  of  several  sorts;  and  that  according  to  the 
ways  of  men's  reckoning,  the  sum  of  money  to  be  paid  for 
a  passage  in  that  apartment  has  some  relation  to  the  expense 
of  furnishing  it  to  please  the  minds  of  such  as  give  way  to 
a  conformity  to  this  world;  and  that  in  this,  as  in  other 
cases,  the  moneys  received  from  the  passengers  are  calcu- 
lated to  defray  the  cost  of  these  superfluities,  as  well  as  the 


304  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  / 

other  expenses  of  their  passage.  I  therefore  felt  a  scruple 
with  regard  to  paying  my  money  to  be  applied  to  such 
purposes." 

As  my  mind  vv^as  now  opened,  I  told  the  owner  that  I  had, 
at  several  times,  in  my  travels,  seen  great  oppressions  on 
this  continent,  at  which  my  heart  had  been  much  affected 
and  brought  into  a  feeling  of  the  state  of  the  sufferers ;  and 
having  many  times  been  engaged  in  the  fear  and  love  of 
God  to  labor  with  those  under  whom  the  oppressed  have 
been  borne  down  and  afflicted,  I  have  often  perceived  that 
with  a  view  to  get  riches  and  to  provide  estates  for  children, 
that  they  may  live  conformably  to  the  customs  and  honors 
of  this  world,  many  are  entangled  in  the  spirit  of  oppression, 
and  the  exercise  of  my  soul  had  been  such  that  I  could  not 
find  peace  in  joining  in  anything  which  I  saw  was  against 
that  wisdom  which  is  pure. 

After  this  I  agreed  for  a  passage  in  the  steerage;  and 
hearing  that  Joseph  White  had  desired  to  see  me,  I  went  to 
his  house,  and  the  next  day  home,  where  I  tarried  two 
nights.  Early  the  next  morning  I  parted  with  my  family 
under  a  sense  of  the  humbling  hand  of  God  upon  me,  and, 
going  to  Philadelphia,  had  an  opportunity  with  several  of 
my  beloved  friends,  who  appeared  to  be  concerned  for  me 
on  account  of  the  unpleasant  situation  of  that  part  of  the 
vessel  in  which  I  was  likely  to  lodge.  In  these  opportunities 
my  mind,  through  the  mercies  of  the  Lord,  was  kept  low  in 
an  inward  waiting  for  his  help;  and  Friends  having  ex- 
pressed their  desire  that  I  might  have  a  more  convenient 
place  than  the  steerage,  did  not  urge  it,  but  appeared  dis- 
posed to  leave  me  to  the  Lord. 

Having  stayed  tw^o  nights  at  Philadelphia,  I  went  the  next 
day  to  Derby  Monthly  Meeting,  where  through  the  strength 
of  Divine  love  my  heart  was  enlarged  towards  the  youth 
there  present,  under  which  I  was  helped  to  labor  in  some 
tenderness  of  spirit.  I  lodged  at  William  Horn's  and  after- 
wards went  to  Chester,  where  I  met  with  Samuel  Emlen, 
and  we  went  on  board  ist  of  fifth  month,  1772.  As  I  sat 
alone  on  the  deck  I  felt  a  satisfactory  evidence  that  my  pro- 
ceedings were  not  in  my  own  will,  but  under  the  power  of 
the  cross  of  Christ 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  305 

Seventh  of  fifth  month. — We  have  had  rough  weather 
mostly  since  I  came  on  board,  and  the  passengers,  James 
Reynolds,  John  Till  Adams,  Sarah  Logan  and  her  hired 
maid,  and  John  Bispham,  all  sea-sick  at  times;  from  which 
sickness,  through  the  tender  mercies  of  my  Heavenly  Father, 
I  have  been  preserved,  my  afflictions  now  being  of  another 
kind.  There  appeared  an  openness  in  the  minds  of  the 
master  of  the  ship  and  in  the  cabin  passengers  towards  me. 
We  are  often  together  on  the  deck,  and  sometimes  in  the 
cabin.  My  mind,  through  the  merciful  help  of  the  Lord, 
hath  been  preserved  in  a  good  degree  watchful  and  quiet, 
for  which  I  have  great  cause  to  be  thankful. 

As  my  lodging  in  the  steerage,  now  near  a  week,  hath 
afforded  me  sundry  opportunities  of  seeing,  hearing,  and 
feeling  with  respect  to  the  life  and  spirit  of  many  poor 
sailors,  an  exercise  of  soul  hath  attended  me  in  regard  to 
placing  our  children  and  youth  where  they  may  be  likely  to 
oe  exampled  and  instructed  in  the  pure  fear  of  the  Lord. 

Being  much  among  the  seamen  I  have,  from  a  motion  of 
love,  taken  sundry  opportunities  with  one  of  them  at  a  time, 
and  have  in  free  conversation  labored  to  turn  their  minds 
tovv^ard  the  fear  of  the  Lord.  This  day  we  had  a  meeting 
in  the  cabin,  where  my  heart  was  contrite  under  a  feeling 
of  Divine  love. 

I  believe  a  communication  with  different  parts  of  the 
world  by  sea  is  at  times  consistent  with  the  will  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  to  educate  some  youth  in  the  practice 
of  sailing,  I  believe  may  be  right;  but  how  lamentable  is 
the  present  corruption  of  the  world !  How  impure  are  the 
channels  through  which  trade  is  conducted !  How  great  is 
the  danger  to  which  poor  lads  are  exposed  when  placed  on 
shipboard  to  learn  the  art  of  sailing !  Five  lads  training  up 
for  the  seas  were  on  board  this  ship.  Two  of  them  were 
brought  up  in  our  Society,  and  the  other,  by  name  James 
Naylor,  is  a  member,  to  whose  father  James  Naylor,  men- 
tioned in  Sev/el's  history,  appears  to  have  been  uncle.  I 
often  feel  a  tenderness  of  heart  towards  these  poor  lads,  and 
at  times  look  at  them  as  though  they  were  m.y  children 
according  to  the  flesh. 

O  that  all  may  take  heed  and  beware  of  covetousness !    O 


306  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

that  all  may  learn  of  Christ,  who  was  meek  and  lowly  oi 
heart.  Then  in  faithfully  following  him  he  will  teach  us  to 
be  content  with  food  and  raiment  without  respect  to  the 
customs  or  honors  of  this  world.  Men  thus  redeemed  will 
feel  a  tender  concern  for  their  fellow-creatures,  and  a  desire 
that  those  in  the  lowest  stations  may  be  assisted  and  encour- 
aged, and  where  owners  of  ships  attain  to  the  perfect  law 
of  liberty  and  are  doers  of  the  Word,  these  will  be  blessed 
in  their  deeds. 

A  ship  at  sea  commonly  sails  all  night,  and  the  seamen 
take  their  watches  four  hours  at  a  time.  Rising  to  work 
in  the  night,  it  is  not  commonly  pleasant  in  any  case,  but  in 
dark  rainy  nights  it  is  very  disagreeable,  even  though  each 
man  were  furnished  with  all  conveniences.  If,  after  having 
been  on  deck  several  hours  in  the  night,  they  come  down 
into  the  steerage  soaking  wet,  and  are  so  closely  stowed  that 
proper  convenience  for  change  of  garments  is  not  easily 
come  at,  but  for  want  of  proper  room  their  wet  garments 
are  throv/n  in  heaps,  and  sometimes,  through  much  crowd- 
ing, are  trodden  under  foot  in  going  to  their  lodgings  and 
getting  out  of  them,  and  it  is  difficult  at  times  for  each  to 
find  his  own.    Here  are  trials  for  the  poor  sailors. 

Now,  as  I  have  been  with  them  in  my  lodge,  my  heart 
hath  often  yearned  for  them,  and  tender  desires  have  been 
raised  in  me  that  all  owners  and  masters  of  vessels  may 
dwell  in  the  love  of  God  and  therein  act  uprightly,  and  by 
seeking  less  for  gain  and  looking  carefully  to  their  ways 
they  may  earnestly  labor  to  remove  all  cause  of  provocation 
from  the  poor  seamen,  so  that  they  m.ay  neither  fret  nor 
use  excess  of  strong  drink;  for,  indeed,  the  poor  creatures, 
in  the  wet  and  cold,  seem  to  apply  at  times  to  strong  drink 
to  supply  the  want  of  other  convenience.  Great  reforma- 
tion is  wanting  in  the  world,  and  the  necessity  of  it  among 
those  who  do  business  on  great  waters  hath  at  this  time 
been  abundantly  opened  before  me. 

Eighth  of  fifth  month.— This  morning  the  clouds  gath- 
ered, the  v/ind  blew  strong  from  the  southeast,  and  before 
noon  so  increased  that  sailing  appeared  dangerous.  The  sea- 
men then  bound  up  some  of  their  sails  and  took  down  others, 
and  the  storm  increasing  they  put  the  dead-lights,  so  called, 


THE  JOURNAL   OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  307 

into  the  cabin  windows  and  lighted  a  lamp  as  at  night.  The 
wind  now  blew  vehemently,  and  the  sea  wrought  to  that 
degree  that  an  awful  seriousness  prevailed  in  the  cabin,  in 
which  I  spent,  I  believe,  about  seventeen  hours,  for  the 
cabin  passengers  had  given  me  frequent  invitations,  and  I 
thought  the  poor  wet  toiling  seamen  had  need  of  all  the 
room  in  the  crov/ded  steerage.  They  now  ceased  from  sail- 
ing and  put  the  vessel  in  the  posture  called  lying  to. 

My  mind  during  this  tempest,  through  the  gracious  assist- 
ance of  the  Lord,  was  preserved  in  a  good  degree  of  resigna- 
tion; and  at  times  I  expressed  a  few  w^ords  in  his  love  to 
my  shipmates  in  regard  to  the  all-sufficiency  of  Him  who 
form-ed  the  great  deep,  and  whose  care  is  so  extensive  that 
a  sparrow  falls  not  without  his  notice ;  and  thus  in  a  tender 
frame  of  mind  I  spoke  to  them  of  the  necessity  of  our  yield- 
ing in  true  obedience  to  the  instructions  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  who  sometimes  through  adversities  intendeth  our 
refinement. 

About  eleYcn  at  night  I  went  out  on  the  deck.  The  sea 
.wrought  exceedingly,  and  the  high,  foaming  waves-  round 
about  had  in  some  sort  the  appearance  of  fire,  but  did  not 
give  much  if  any  light.  The  sailor  at  the  helm  said  he 
lately  sav7  a  corposant  at  the  head  of  the  mast.  I  observed 
that  the  master  of  the  ship  ordered  the  carpenter  to  keep 
on  the  deck;  and,  though  he  said  little,  I  apprehended  his 
care  was  that  the  carpenter  with  his  axe  might  be  in  readi- 
ness in  case  of  any  em.ergency.  Soon  after  this  the  ve- 
hemency  of  the  wind  abated,  and  before  morning  they 
again  put  the  ship  under  sail. 

Tenth  of  fifth  month. — It  being  the  first  day  of  the  week 
and  fine  weather,  we  had  a  meeting  in  the  cabin,  at  which 
most  of  the  seamen  were  present;  this  meeting  was  to  me 
a  strengthening  time.  13th. — As  I  continue  to  lodge  in  the 
steerag:e  I  feel  an  openness  this  morning  to  express  some- 
thing further  of  the  state  of  my  mind  in  respect  to  poor 
lads  bound  apprentice  to  learn  the  art  of  sailing.  As  I 
believe  sailing  is  of  use  in  the  v/orld,  a  labor  of  soul  attends 
me  that  the  pure  counsel  of  truth  may  be  humbly  waited  for 
in  this  case  by  all  concerned  in  the  business  of  the  seas. 
A  pious  father  whose  mind  is  exercised  for  the  CTerlasting 


308  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  j 

welfare  of  his  child  may  not  with  a  peaceable  mind  place 
him  out  to  an  employment  among  a  people  ^whose  common 
course  of  life  is  manifestly  corrupt  and  profane.  Great  is 
the  present  defect  among  seafaring  men  in  regard  to  virtue 
and  piety;  and,  by  reason  of  an  abundant  traffic  and  many 
ships  being  used  for  war,  so  many  people  are  employed  on 
the  sea  that  the  subject  of  placing  lads  to  this  employment 
appears  very  weighty. 

When  I  remember  the  saying  of  the  Most  High  through 
his  prophet,  "  This  people  have  I  formed  for  myself ;  they 
shall  show  forth  my  praise,"  and  think  of  placing  children 
among  such  to  learn  the  practice  of  sailing,  the  consistency 
of  it  with  a  pious  education  seems  to  me  like  that  mentioned 
by  the  prophet,  "There  is  no  answer  from  God." 

Profane  examples  are  very  corrupting  and  very  forcible. 
"And  as  my  mind  day  after  day  and  night  after  night  hath 
been  affected  with  a  sympathizing  tenderness  towards  poor 
children  who  are  put  to  the  employment  of  sailors,  I  have 
sometimes  had  weighty  conversation  with  the  sailors  in  the 
steerage,  who  were  mostly  respectful  to  me  and  became 
more  so  the  longer  I  was  with  them.  They  mostly  appeared 
to  take  kindly  what  I  said  to  them ;  but  their  minds  were  so 
deeply  impressed  with  the  almost  universal  depravity  among 
sailors  that  the  poor  creatures  in  their  answers  to  me  have 
revived  in  my  remembrance  that  of  the  degenerate  Jews  a 
little  before  the  captivity,  as  repeated  by  Jeremiah  the 
prophet,  "  There  is  no  hope." 

Now  under  this  exercise  a  sense  of  the  desire  of  outward 
gain  prevailing  among  us  felt  grievous;  and  a  strong  call 
to  the  professed  followers  of  Christ  was  raised  in  me  that 
all  may  take  heed  lest,  through  loving  this  present  world, 
they  be  found  in  a  continued  neglect  of  duty  with  respect 
to  a  faithful  labor  for  reformation. 

To  silence  every  motion  proceeding  from  the  love  of  money 
and  humbly  to  wait  upon  God  to  know  his  will  concerning  us 
have  appeared  necessary.  He  alone  is  able  to  strengthen  us  to 
dig  deep,  to  remove  all  which  lies  between  as  aaad  the  safe 
foundation,  and  so  to  Mr^t  us  m  cmr  outward  employments 
that  pure  universal  love  may  sbine  fcfrth  in  tmr  proceedings. 
D^ires  arising  from  the  spirit  of  tru^  are  pure  desires ;  and 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  309 

wHen  a  mind  divinely  opened  towards  a  young  generation  is 
made  sensible  of  corrupting  examples  powerfully  working 
and  extensively  spreading  among  them,  how  moving  is  the 
prospect !  In  a  world  of  dangers  and  difficulties,  like  a 
desolate,  thorny  wilderness,  how  precious,  how  comfortable, 
hov/  safe,  are  the  leadings  of  Christ  the  good  Shepherd, 
who  said,  "I  know  my  sheep,  and  am  known  of  mine ! " 

Sixteenth  of  sixth^  month. — Wind  for  several  days  past 
often  high,  w^hat  the  sailors  call  squally,  with  a  rough  sea 
and  frequent  rains.  This  last  night  has  been  a  very  trying 
one  to  the  poor  seamen,  the  water  the  most  part  of  the 
night  running  over  the  main-deck,  and  sometimes  breaking 
twaves  came  on  the  quarter-deck.  The  latter  part  of  the 
night,  as  I  lay  in  bed,  my  mind  was  humbled  under  the 
power  of  Divine  love;  and  resignedness  to  the  great  Crea- 
tor of  the  earth  and  the  seas  was  renewedly  wrought  in  me, 
and  his  fatherly  care  over  his  children  felt  precious  to  my 
soul.  I  was  now  desirous  to  embrace  every  opportunity  of 
being  inwardly  acquainted  with  the  hardships  and  difficulties 
of  my  fellow-creatures,  and  to  labor  in  his  love  for  the 
spreading  of  pure  righteousness  on  the  earth.  Opportunities 
were  frequent  of  hearing  conversation  among  the  sailors 
respecting  the  voyages  to  Africa  and  the  manner  of  bringing 
the  deeply  oppressed  slaves  into  our  islands.  They  are  fre- 
quently brought  on  board  the  vessels  in  chains  and  fetters, 
with  hearts  loaded  with  grief  under  the  apprehension  of 
miserable  slavery;  so  that  my  mind  was  frequently  engaged 
to  meditate  on  these  things. 

Seventeenth  of  fifth  month  and  first  of  the  week. — We  had 
a  meeting  in  the  cabin,  to  which  the  seamen  generally  came. 
My  spirit  v^^as  contrite  before  the  Lord,  whose  love  at  this 
time  affected  my  heart.  In  the  afternoon  I  felt  a  tender 
sympathy  of  soul  with  my  poor  wife  and  family  left  behind, 
in  which  state  my  heart  was  enlarged  in  desires  that  they 
may  walk  in  that  humble  obedience  wherein  the  everlasting 
Father  may  be  their  guide  and  support  through  all  their 
difficulties  in  this  world;  and  a  sense  of  that  gracious  assist- 
ance, through  which  my  mind  hath  been  strengthened  to 
take  up  the  cross  and  leave  them  to  tmvel  in  the  love  o£ 


310  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

truth,  hath  begotten  thankfulness  in  my  heart  to  our  great 
Helper. 

Twenty-fourth  of  fifth  month.— A  clear,  pleasant  morning. 
As  I  sat  on  deck  I  felt  a  reviving  in  my  nature,  which  had 
been  weakened  through  much  rainy  weather  and  high  winds 
and  being  shut  up  in  a  close,  unhealthy  air.  Several  nights 
of  late  I  have  felt  my  breathing  difficult;  and  a  little  after 
the  rising  of  the  second  watch,  which  is  about  midnight,  I 
have  got  up  and  stood  near  an  hour  with  my  face  near  the 
hatchway,  to  get  the  fresh  air  at  the  small  vacancy  under 
the  hatch  door,  which  is  commonly  shut  down,  partly  to 
keep  out  rain  and  sometimes  to  keep  the  breaking  waves 
from,  dashing  into  the  steerage.  I  may  with  thankfulness  to 
the  Father  of  Mercies  acknowledge  that  in  my  present  weak 
state  my  mind  hath  been  supported  to  bear  this  affliction  with 
patience;  and  I  have  looked  at  the  present  dispensation  as 
a  kindness  from  the  great  Father  of  mankind,  who,  in  this 
my  floating  pilgrimage,  is  in  some  degree  bringing  me  to 
feel  what  many  thousands  of  my  fellow-creatures  often  suffer 
in  a  greater  degree. 

My  appetite  failing,  the  trial  hath  been  the  heavier;  and 
I  have  felt  tender  breathings  in  my  soul  after  God,  the 
fountain  of  comfort,  whose  inward  help  hath  supplied  at 
times  the  want  of  outward  convenience;  and  strong  desires 
have  attended  me  that  his  family,  who  are  acquainted  with 
the  movings  of  his  Holy  Spirit,  may  be  so  redeemed  from 
the  love  of  money  and  from  that  spirit  in  which  men  seek 
honor  one  of  another,  that  in  all  business,  by  sea  or  land, 
they  may  constantly  keep  in  view  the  coming  of  his  king- 
dom on  earth  as  it  is  in  Heaven,  and,  by  faithfully  follow- 
ing this  safe  guide,  may  show  forth  examples  tending  to 
lead  out  of  that  under  which  the  creation  groans.  This  day 
we  had  a  meeting  in  the  cabin,  in  which  I  was  favored  in 
some  degree  to  experience  the  fulfilling  of  that  saying  o£ 
the  prophet,  "  The  Lord  hath  been  a  strength  to  the  poor,  a 
strength  to  the  needy  in  their  distress  " ;  for  which  my  heart 
is  bowed  in  thankfulness  before  him. 

Twenty-eighth  of  fifth  month. — Wet  weather  of  late  and 
small  winds,  inclining  to  calms.  Our  seamen  cast  a  lead,  I 
suppose  about  one  hundred  fathoms,  but  found  no  bottom. 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  311 

Foggy  weather  this  morning.  Through  the  kindness  of  the 
great  Preserver  of  men  my  mind  remains  quiet;  and  a  de- 
gree of  exercise  from  day  to  day  attends  me,  that  the  pure 
peaceable  government  of  Christ  may  spread  and  prevail 
among  mankind. 

The  leading  of  a  young  generation  in  that  pure  way  in 
which  the  wisdom  of  this  world  hath  no  place,  where  parents 
and  tutors,  humbly  waiting  for  the  heavenly  Counsellor,  may 
example  them  in  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus,  hath  for  several 
daj^s  been  the  exercise  of  my  mind.  O,  how  safe,  how  quiet, 
is  that  state  where  the  soul  stands  in  pure  obedience  to  the 
voice  of  Christ  and  a  watchful  care  is  maintained  not  to 
follow  the  voice  of  the  stranger !  Here  Christ  is  felt  to  be 
our  Shepherd,  and  under  his  leading  people  are  brought  to 
a  stability;  and  where  he  doth  not  lead  forward,  we  are 
bound  in  the  bonds  of  pure  love  to  stand  still  and  wait 
upon  him. 

In  the  love  of  money  and  in  the  wisdom  of  this  world, 
business  is  proposed,  then  the  urgency  of  affairs  push  for- 
ward,  and  the  mJnd  cannot  in  this  state  discern  the  good 
and  perfect  will  of  God  concerning  us.  The  love  of  God  is 
manifested  in  graciously  calling  us  to  come  out  of  that 
which  stands  in  confusion;  but  if  we  bow  not  in  the  name 
of  Jesus,  if  we  give  not  up  those  prospects  of  gain  which  in 
the  wisdom  of  this  world  are  open  before  us,  but  say  in  our 
hearts,  "  I  must  needs  go  on ;  and  in  going  on  I  hope  to 
keep  as  near  the  purity  of  truth  as  the  business  before  me 
will  admit  of,"  the  mind  remains  entangled  and  the  shining 
of  the  light  of  life  into  the  soul  is  obstructed. 

Surely  the  Lord  calls  to  mourning  and  deep  humiliation 
that  in  his  fear  we  may  be  instructed  and  led  safely  through 
the  great  difficulties  and  perplexities  in  this  present  age.  In 
an  entire  subjection  of  our  wills  the  Lord  graciously  opens  a 
way  for  his  people,  where  all  their  wants  are  bounded  by 
his  wisdom;  and  here  we  experience  the  substance  of  what 
Moses  the  prophet  figured  out  in  the  water  of  separation  as 
a  purification  from  sin, 

Esau  is  mentioned  as  a  child  red  all  over  like  a  hairy 
garment.  In  Esau  is  represented  the  natural  will  of  man. 
In  preparing  the  water  of  separation  a  red  heifer  without 


312  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

blemish,  on  which  there  had  been  no  yoke,  was  to  be  slain 
and  her  blood  sprinkled  by  the  priest  seven  times  towards 
the  tabernacle  of  the  congregation ;  then  her  skin,  her  flresh, 
and  all  pertaining  to  her,  was  to  be  burnt  without  the  camp, 
and  of  her  ashes  the  water  was  prepared.  Thus,  the  crucify- 
ing of  the  old  man,  or  natural  will,  is  represented;  and 
hence  comes  a  separation  from  that  carnal  mind  which  is 
death.  "He  who  toucheth  the  dead  body  of  a  man  and 
purifieth  not  himself  with  the  water  of  separation,  defileth 
the  tabernacle  of  the  Lord;  he  is  unclean."     (Num.  xix.  13.) 

If  any  through  the  love  of  gain  engage  in  business  wherein 
tiiey  dwell  as  among  the  tombs  and  touch  the  bodies  of 
those  who  are  dead  should  through  the  infinite  love  of  God 
feel  the  power  of  the  cross  of  Christ  to  crucify  them  to  the 
world,  and  therein  learn  humbly  to  follow  the  divine  Leader, 
here  is  the  judgment  of  this  world,  here  the  prince  of  this 
world  is  cast  out.  The  water  of  separation  is  felt;  and 
though  we  have  been  among  the  slain,  and  through  the  de- 
sire of  gain  have  touched  the  dead  body  of  a  man,  yet  in 
the  purifying  love  of  Christ  we  are  washed  in  the  water  of 
separation;  we  are  brought  off  from  that  business,  from 
that  gain  and  from  that  fellowship  which  is  not  agreeable 
to  his  holy  wilL  I  have  felt  a  renewed  confirmation  in  the 
time  of  this  voyage,  that  the  Lord,  in  his  infinite  love,  is 
calling  to  his  visited  children,  so  to  give  up  all  outward  pos- 
sessions and  means  of  getting  treasures,  that  his  Holy  Spirit 
may  have  free  course  in  their  hearts  and  direct  them  in  all 
their  proceedings.  To  feel  the  substance  pointed  at  in  this 
figure  man  must  know  death  as  to  his  own  will. 

*'No  man  can  see  God  and  live."  This  was  spoken  by 
tiie  Almighty  to  Moses  the  prophet  and  opened  by  our 
blessed  Redeemer.  As  death  corner  on  our  own  wills,  and 
a  new  life  is  formed  in  us,  the  heart  is  purified  and  prepared 
to  understand  clearly,  "  Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  for 
they  shall  see  God."  In  purity  of  heart  the  mind  is  divinely 
opened  to  behold  the  nature  of  universal  righteoiisness,  or 
the  righteousness  of  ikt  kingdom  of  God.  "  No  man  bath 
seen  the  Father  save  he  that  is  of  God,  he  hath  seen  ^e 
Father." 

The  natural  mind  is  active  alxoui  the  things  of  thi*  life. 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  313 

and  in  this  natural  activity  business  is  proposed  and  a  will 
is  formed  ia  us  to  go  forward  in  it.  And  so  Long  as  this 
natural  will  remains  unsubjeeted,  so  long  there  remains  an 
obstruction  to  the  clearness  of  Divine  light  operating  in  us; 
but  wh*^  we  love  God  with  all  our  heart  and  with  all  our 
stroigth,  in  this  love  we  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves; 
and  a  tenderness  of  heart  is  felt  towards  all  people  for 
whom  Christ  died,  even  those  who,  as  to  outward  circum- 
stances, may  be  to  us  as  the  Jews  were  to  the  Samaritans. 
"  Who  is  my  neighbor  ?  '*  See  this  question  answered  by 
our  Saviour,  Luke  x.  30.  In  this  love  we  can  say  that  Jesus 
is  the  Lord;  and  in  this  reformation  in  our  souls,  mani- 
fested in  a  full  reformation  of  our  lives,  wherein  all  things 
are  new,  and  all  things  are  of  God  (2  Cor.  v.  18),  the  desire 
of  gain  is  subjected. 

When  employment  is  honestly  followed  in  the  light  of 
truth,  and  people  become  diligent  in  business,  "  fervent  in 
spirit,  serving  the  Lord"  (Rom.  xii.  li),  the  meaning  of  the 
name  is  opened  to  us :  "  This  is  the  name  by  which  he  shall 
be  called,  THE  LORD  OUR  RIGHTEOUSNESS."  (Jer. 
xxiii.  6.)  O,  how  precious  is  this  name !  it  is  like  ointment 
poured  out.  The  chaste  virgins  are  in  love  with  the  Re- 
deemer; and  for  promoting  his  peaceable  kingdom  in  the 
world  are  content  to  endure  hardness  like  good  soldiers; 
and  are  so  separated  in  spirit  from  the  desire  of  riches,  that 
in  their  employments  they  become  extensively  careful  to 
give  no  offence,  either  to  Jew  or  Heathen,  or  to  the  church 
of  Christ. 

Thirty-first  of  fifth  month  and  first  of  the  week.— We  had 
a  meeting  in  the  cabin,  with  nearly  all  the  ship's  company, 
the  whole  being  near  thirty.  In  this  meeting  the  Lord  in 
mercy  favored  us  with  the  extending  of  his  love. 

Second  of  sixth  month. — Last  evening  the  seamen  found 
bottom  at  about  seventy  fathoms.  This  morning,  a  fair 
wind  and  pleasant.  I  sat  on  deck;  my  heart  was  overcome 
with  the  love  of  Christ,  and  melted  into  contrition  before 
him.  In  this  state  the  prospect  of  that  work  to  which  I 
found  my  mind  drawn  when  in  my  native  land  being,  in 
some  degree,  opened  before  me,  I  felt  like  a  little  child ;  and 
my  cries  were  put  up  to  m^  Heavenljr  Father  for  preserve- 


314  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

tion,  that  in  an  humble  dependence  on  him  my  soul  mi^ht 
be  strengthened  in  his  love  and  kept  inwardly  waiting  for 
his  counsel.  This  afternoon  ^ve  saw  that  part  of  England 
called  the  Lizard. 

Some  fowls  yet  remained  of  those  the  passengers  took  for 
their  sea-store.  I  believe  about  fourteen  perished  in  the 
storms  at  sea,  by  the  waves  breaking  over  the  quarter-deck, 
and  a  considerable  number  with  sickness  at  different  times. 
I  observed  the  cocks  crew  as  we  came  down  the  Delaware, 
and  while  we  were  near  the  land,  but  afterwards  I  think  I 
did  not  hear  one  of  them  crow  till  we  came  near  the  English 
coast,  when  they  again  crowed  a  few  times.  In  observing 
their  dull  appearance  at  sea,  and  the  pining  sickness  of  some 
of  them,  I  often  remem.bered  the  Fountain  of  goodness,  v/ho 
gave  being  to  all  creatures,  and  whose  love  extends  to  caring 
for  the  sparrows.  I  believe  where  the  love  of  God  is  verily 
perfected,  and  the  true  spirit  of  government  watchfully 
attended  to,  a  tenderness  tow^ards  all  creatures  made  subject 
to  us  will  be  experienced,  and  a  care  felt  in  us  that  we  do 
not  lessen  that  sweetness  of  life  in  the  animal  creation 
which  the  great  Creator  intends  for  them  under  our 
government. 

Fourth  of  sixth  month. — Wet  weather,  high  winds,  and 
so  dark  that  we  could  see  but  a  little  way.  I  perceived  our 
seamen  were  apprehensive  of  the  danger  of  missing  the 
channel,  which  I  understood  was  narrov\/.  In  a  v/hile  it 
grew  lighter,  and  they  saw  the  land  and  knew  where  we 
were.  Thus  the  Father  of  Mercies  was  pleased  to  try  us 
with  the  sight  of  dangers,  and  then  graciously,  from  time 
to  time,  deliver  us  from  them;  thus  sparing  our  lives,  that 
in  humility  and  reverence  we  might  walk  before  him  and 
put  our  trust  in  him.  About  noon  a  pilot  came  ofl  from 
Dover,  where  m.y  beloved  friend  Samuel  Emlen  went  on 
shore  and  thence  to  London,  about  seventy-two  miles  by 
land;   but  I  felt  easy  in  staying  in  the  ship. 

Seventh  of  sixth  month  and  first  of  the  week. — A  clear 
morning;  we  lay  at  anchor  for  the  tide,  and  had  a  parting 
meeting  with  the  ship's  com.pany,  in  which  my  heart  was 
enlarged  in  a  fervent  concern  for  them,  that  they  may 
come  to  experience  salvation  through  Christ.    Had  a  head- 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  315 

wind  up  the  Thames;  lay  sometimes  at  anchor;  saw  many- 
ships  passing,  and  some  at  anchor  near;  and  I  had  large 
opportunity  of  feeling  the  spirit  in  which  the  poor  bewild- 
ered sailors  too  generally  live.  That  lamentable  degeneracy 
which  so  much  prevails  in  the  people  employed  on  the  seas 
so  affected  my  heart  that  I  cannot  easily  convey  the  feeling 
I  had  to  another. 

The  present  state  of  the  seafaring  life  in  general  appears 
so  opposite  to  that  of  a  pious  education,  so  full  ot  corruption 
and  extreme  alienation  from  God,  so  full  of  the  most  dan- 
gerous examples  to  young  people  that  in  looking  towards  a 
young  generation  I  feel  a  care  for  them,  that  they  may  have 
an  education  different  from  the  present  one  of  lads  at  sea, 
and  that  all  of  us  who  are  acquainted  with  the  pure  gospel 
spirit  may  lay  this  case  to  heart,  may  remember  the  lamenta- 
ble corruptions  which  attend  the  conveyance  of  merchandise 
across  the  seas,  and  so  abide  in  the  love  of  Christ  that,  being 
delivered  from  the  entangling  expenses  of  a  curious,  deli- 
cate, and  luxurious  life,  we  may  learn  contentment  with  a 
little,  and  promote  the  seafaring  life  no  further  than  that 
spirit  which  leads  into  all  truth  attends  us  in  our  pro- 
ceedings. 


CHAPTER  XII 

1772 

Attends  the  Yearly  Meeting  in  London — Then  proceeds  towards 
Yorkshire — Visits  Quarterly  and  other  Meetings  in  the  Counties 
of  Hertford,  Warwick,  Oxford,  Nottingham,  York,  and  West- 
moreland— Returns  to  Yorkshire — Instructive  Observations  and 
Letters — Hears  of  the  Decease  of  William  Hunt — Some  Account 
of  him — The  Author's  Last  Illness  and  Death  at  York. 

N  the  8th  of  sixth  month,  1772,  we  landed  at  London, 
and  I   went  straightway  to  the  Yearly  Meeting  of 
ministers   and   elders,   which   had   been   gathered,   I 
suppose,  about  half  an  hour.  ^ 

In  this  meeting  my  mind  was  humbly  contrite.  In  the 
afternoon  the  meeting  for  business  was  opened,  which  by 
adjournments  held  near  a  week.  In  these  meetings  I  often 
felt  a  living  concern  for  the  establishment  of  Friends  in 
the  pure  life  of  truth.  My  heart  was  enlarged  in  the  meet- 
ings of  ministers,  that  for  business,  and  in  several  meetings 
for  public  worship,  and  I  felt  my  mind  united  in  true  love 
to  the  faithful  laborers  now  gathered  at  this  Yearly  Meeting. 
On  the  15th  I  went  to  a  Quarterly  Meeting  at  Hertford. 

1  There  is  a  story  told  of  his  first  appearance  in  England  which  I  have 
from  my  friend,  William  J.  AUinson,  editor  of  the  Friends'  Review,  and 
which  he  assures  me  is  well  authenticated.  The  vessel  reached  London  on. 
the  morning  of  the  fifth  day  of  the  week,  and  John  Woolman,  knowing  that 
the  meeting  was  then  in  session,  lost  no  time  in  reaching  it.  Coming  in 
late  and  unannounced,  his  peculiar  dress  and  manner  excited  attention  and 
apprehension  that  he  was  an  itinerant  enthusiast.  He  presented  his  cer- 
tificate from  Friends  in  America,  but  the  dissatisfaction  still  remained,  and 
some  one  remarked  that  perhaps  the  stranger  Friend  might  feel  that  his 
dedication  of  himself  to  this  apprehended  service  was  accepted,  without 
further  labor,  and  that  he  might  now  feel  free  to  return  to  his  home.  John 
Wpolman  sat  silent  for  a  space,  seeking  the  unerring  counsel  of  Divine 
Wisdom.  He  was  profoundly  affected  by  the  unfavorable  reception  he  met 
with,  and  his  tears  flowed  freely.  In  the  love  of  Christ  and  his  fellow-men 
he  had,  at  a  painful  sacrifice,  taken  his  life  in  his  hands,  and  left  behind 
the  peace  and  endearments  of  home.  That  love  still  flowed  out  toward  the 
people  of  England;  must  it  henceforth  be  pent  up  in  his  own  heart?  He 
rose  at  last,  and  stated  that  he  could  not  feel  himself  released  from  his 
prospect  of  labor  in  England.  Yet  he  could  not  travel  in  the  ministry  with- 
out the  unity  of  Friends;  and  while  that  was  withheld  he  could  not  feel 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  ^7 

First  of  seventh  month.-^I  have  been  at  Quarterly  Meet- 
ings at  Sherrington,  Northampton,  Banbury,  and  Shipton, 
and  have  had  sundry  meetings  between.  My  mind  hath  been 
bowed  under  a  sense  of  Divine  goodness  manifested  among 
us;  my  heart  hath  been  often  enlarged  in  true  love,  both 
among  ministers  and  elders  and  in  public  meetings,  and 
through  the  Lord's  goodness  I  believe  it  hath  been  a  fresh 
visitation  to  many,  in  particular  to  the  youth. 

Seventeenth. — I  was  this  day  at  Birmingham;  I  have 
been  at  meetings  at  Coventry,  Warwick,  in  Oxfordshire,  and 
sundry  other  places,  and  have  felt  the  humbling  hand  of 
the  Lord  upon  me;  but  through  his  tender  mercies  I  find 
peace  in  the  labors  I  have  gone  through. 

Twenty-sixth. — I  have  continued  travelling  northward, 
visiting  meetings.  W*as  this  day  at  Nottingham;  the  fore- 
noon meeting  was  especially,  through  Divine  love,  a  heart- 
tendering  season.  Next  day  I  had  a  meeting  in  a  Friend's 
family,  which,  through  the  strengthening  arm  of  the  Lord, 
was  a  time  to  be  thankfully  remembered. 

Second  of  eighth  month  and  first  of  the  week. — ^I  was 
this  day  at  Sheffield,  a  large  inland  town.  I  was  at  sundry 
meetings  last  week,  and  feel  inward  thankfulness  for  that 
Divine  support  which  hath  been  graciously  extended  to  me. 
On  the  9th  I  was  at  Rushworth.  I  have  lately  passed  through 
some  painful  labor,  but  have  been  comforted  under  a  sense 

easy  to  be  of  any  cost  to  them.  He  could  not  go  back  as  had  been  sug- 
gested; but  he  was  acquainted  with  a  mechanical  trade,  and  while  the  im- 
pediment to  his  services  continued  he  hoped  Friends  would  be  kindly  willing 
to  employ  him  in  such  business  as  he  was  capable  of,  that  he  might  not  be 
chargeable  to  any.  ,     , 

A  deep  silence  prevailed  over  the  assembly,  many  of  whom  were  touclxed 
by  the  wise  simplicity  of  the  stranger's  words  and  manner.  After  a  season 
of  waiting,  John  Woolman  felt  that  words  were  given  him  to  utter  as  a 
minister  of  Christ.  The  spirit  of  his  Master  bore  witness  to  them  in  tne 
hearts  of  his  hearers.  When  he  closed,  the  Friend  who  had  advised  against 
his  further  service  rose  up  and  humbly  confessed  his  eror,  and  avowed  nis 
full  unity  with  the  stranger.  All  doubt  was  removed;  there  AS'as  a  general 
expression  of  unity  and  sympathy,  and  John  Woolman,  owned  by  nis  Dretn- 
ren,  passed  on  to  his  work.  .      ,  it-. 

There  is  no  portrait  of  John  Woolman;  and  had  photography  been 
known  in  his  day  it  is  not  at  all  probable  that  the  sun-artist  would  have 
been  permitted  to  delineate  his  features.  That,  while  eschewing  all  super- 
fluity and  expensive  luxury,  he  was  scrupulously  neat  in  his  dress  and  person 
may  be  inferred  from  his  general  character  and  from  the  fact  that  one  oi 
his  serious  objections  to  dyed  clothing  was  that  it  served  to  conceal  unciean- 
ness,  and  was,  therefore,  detrimental  to  real  purity.  It  is,  however  quite 
probable  that  his  outer  man,  on  the  occasion  referred  to,  was  suggestive  ot 
a  hasty  toilet  in  the  crowded  steerage. — Note  from  the  edition  pv-blisiiea  by 
Messrs.  Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co. 


3X8  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

of  that  Divine  visitation  which  I  feel  extended  towards  many 
young  people. 

Sixteenth  of  eighth  month  and  the  first  of  the  week,  I 
was  at  Settle.  It  hath  of  late  been  a  time  of  inward  poverty, 
under  which  my  mind  hath  been  preserved  in  a  watchful, 
tender  state,  feeling  for  the  mind  of  the  Holy  Leader,  and 
I  find  peace  in  the  labors  I  have  passed  through. 

On  inquiry  in  many  places  I  find  the  price  of  rye  about 
five  shillings;  wheat,  eight  shillings  per  bushel;  oatmeal, 
twelve  shillings  for  a  hundred  and  twenty  pounds;  mutton 
from  threepence  to  fivepence  per  pound;  bacon  from  seven- 
pence  to  ninepence;  cheese  from  fourpence  to  sixpence; 
butter  from  eightpence  to  tenpence;  house-rent  for  a  poor 
man  from  twenty-five  shillings  to  forty  shillings  per  year,  to 
be  paid  weekly;  wood  for  fire  very  scarce  and  dear;  coal 
in  some  places  two  shillings  and  sixpence  per  hundredweight; 
but  near  the  pits  not  a  quarter  so  much.  O,  may  the  wealthy 
consider  the  poor! 

The  wages  of  laboring  men  in  several  counties  toward 
London  at  tenpence  per  day  in  common  business,  the  em- 
ployer finds  small  beer  and  the  laborer  finds  his  ovv^n  food; 
but  in  harvest  and  hay  time  wages  are  about  one  shilling 
per  day,  and  the  laborer  hath  all  his  diet.  In  some  parts  of 
the  north  of  England  poor  laboring  men  have  their  food 
where  they  work,  and  appear  in  common  to  do  rather 
better  than  nearer  London.  Industrious  women  who  spin 
in  the  factories  get  some  fourpence,  some  fivepence,  and  so 
on  to  six,  seven,  eight,  nine,  or  ten  pence  per  day,  and  find 
their  own  house-room  and  diet.  Great  numbers  of  poor 
people  live  chiefly  on  bread  and  water  in  the  southern  parts 
of  England,  as  well  as  in  the  northern  parts;  and  there  are 
many  poor  children  not  even  taught  to  read.  May  those  who 
have  abundance  lay  these  things  to  heart ! 

Stage-coaches  frequently  go  upwards  of  one  hundred  miles 
ia  twenty-four  hours;  and  I  have  heard  Friends  say  in 
several  places  that  it  is  common  for  horses  to  be  killed  with 
hard  driving,  and  that  many  others  are  driven  till  they  grow 
blind.  Post-boys  pursue  their  business,  each  one  to  his  stage, 
all  night  through  the  winter.  Some  boys  who  ride  long 
stages  suffer  greatly  in  winter  nights,  and  at  several  places 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  319 

I  have  heard  of  their  being  frozen  to  death.  So  great  is 
the  hurry  in  the  spirit  of  this  world,  that  in  aiming  to  do 
business  quickly  and  to  gain  wealth  the  creation  at  this  day 
doth  loudly  groan. 

As  my  journey  hath  been  without  a  horse,  I  have  had 
several  offers  of  being  assisted  on  my  way  in  these  stage- 
coaches, but  have  not  been  in  them ;  nor  have  I  had  freedom 
to  send  letters  by  these  posts  in  the  present  way  of  riding, 
the  stages  being  so  fixed,  and  one  boy  dependent  on  another 
as  to  time,  and  going  at  great  speed,  that  in  long  cold  v/inter 
nights  the  poor  boys  suffer  much.  I  heard  in  America  of 
the  way  of  these  posts,  and  cautioned  Friends  in  the  General 
Meeting  of  ministers  and  elders  at  Philadelphia,  and  in  the 
Yearly  Meeting  of  ministers  and  elders  in  London,  not  to 
send  letters  to  me  on  any  common  occasion  by  post  And 
though  on  this  account  I  may  be  likely  not  to  hear  so  often 
from  my  family  left  behind,  yet  for  righteousness'  sake  I  am, 
through  Divine  favor,  made  content. 

I  have  felt  great  distress  of  mind  since  I  came  on  this 
island,  on  account  of  the  micmbers  of  our  Society  being  mixed 
with  the  world  in  various  sorts  of  traffic,  carried  on  in  im- 
pure channels.  Great  is  the  trade  to  Africa  for  slaves ;  and 
for  the  loading  of  these  ships  a  great  number  of  people  are 
employed  in  their  factories,  among  whom  are  many  of  our 
Society.  Friends  in  early  times  refused  on  a  religious  prin- 
ciple to  make  or  trade  in  superfluities,  of  which  we  have 
many  testimonies  on  record;  but  for  want  of  faithfulness, 
some,  whose  examples  were  of  note  in  our  Society,  gave  way, 
from  which  others  took  more  liberty.  Members  of  our  So- 
ciety worked  in  superfluities,  and  bought  and  sold  them,  and 
thus  dimness  of  sight  came  over  many;  at  length  Friends 
got  into  the  use  of  some  superfluities  in  dress  and  in  the 
furniture  of  their  houses,  v/hich  hath  spread  from  less  to 
more,  till  superfluity  of  some  kinds  is  common  am.ong  us. 

In  this  declining  state  many  look  at  the  example  of  others 
and  too  much  neglect  the  pure  feeling  of  truth.  Of  late 
years  a  deep  exercise  hath  attended  my  mind,  that  Friends 
may  dig  deep,  may  carefully  cast  forth  the  loose  matter  and 
get  down  to  the  rock,  the  sure  foundation,  and  there  hearken 
to  that  Divine  voice  which  gives  a  clear  and  certain  sound; 


320  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

and  I  have  felt  in  that  which  doth  not  receive,  that  if  Friends 
who  have  known  the  truth  keep  in  that  tenderness  of  heart 
where  all  views  of  outward  gain  are  given  up,  and  their 
trust  is  only  in  the  Lord,  he  will  graciously  lead  some  to  he 
patterns  of  deep  self-denial  in  things  relating  to  trade  and 
handicraft  labor;  and  others  who  have  plenty  of  the  treas- 
ures of  this  world  will  be  examples  of  a  plain  frugal  life,  and 
pay  wages  to  such  as  they  may  hire  more  liberally  than  is 
now  customary  in  some  places. 

Twenty-third  of  eighth  month. — I  was  this  day  at  Preston 
Patrick,  and  had  a  comfortable  meeting.  I  have  several 
times  been  entertained  at  the  houses  of  Friends,  who  had 
sundry  things  about  them  that  had  the  appearance  of  out- 
ward greatness,  and  as  I  have  kept  inward,  way  hath  opened 
for  conversation  with  such  in  private,  in  which  Divine  good- 
ness hath  favored  us  together  with  heart-tendering  times. 

Twenty-sixth  of  eighth  month. — Being  now  at  George 
Crosfield's,  in  the  county  of  Westmoreland,  I  feel  a  concern 
to  commit  to  writing  the  following  uncommon  circumstance. 

In  a  time  of  sickness,  a  little  more  than  two  years  and  a 
half  ago,  I  was  brought  so  near  the  gates  of  death  that  I 
forgot  my  name.  Being  then  desirous  to  knovv^  who  I  was, 
I  saw  a  mass  of  matter  of  a  dull  gloomy  color  between  the 
south  and  the  east,  and  v/as  informed  that  this  mass  was 
human  beings  in  as  great  misery  as  they  could  be,  and  live, 
and  that  I  was  mixed  with  them,  and  that  henceforth  I  might 
not  consider  myself  as  a  distinct  or  separate  being.  In  this 
state  I  remained  several  hours.  I  then  heard  a  soft  melo- 
dious voice,  more  pure  and  harmonious  than  any  I  had  heard 
with  my  ears  before ;  I  believed  it  was  the  voice  of  an  angel 
who  spake  to  the  other  angels;  the  words  were,  "John 
Woolman  is  dead."  I  soon  remembered  that  I  was  once  John 
Woolman,  and  being  assured  that  I  was  alive  in  the  body, 
I  greatly  wondered  what  that  heavenly  voice  could  mean.  I 
believed  beyond  doubting  that  it  was  the  voice  of  an  holy 
angel,  but  as  yet  it  was  a  mystery  to  me. 

I  was  then  carried  in  spirit  to  the  mines  where  poor  op- 
pressed people  were  digging  rich  treasures  for  those  called 
Christians,  and  heard  them  blaspheme  the  name  of  Christ, 
at  which  I  was  grieved,  for  his  name  to  me  was  precious,    i 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  321 

was  then  informed  that  these  heathens  v/ere  told  that  those 
who  oppressed  them  were  the  followers  of  Christ,  and  they 
said  among  themselves,  "  If  Christ  directed  them  to  use  us 
in  this  sort,  then  Christ  is  a  cruel  tyrant." 

AU  this  time  the  song  of  the  angel  remained  a  mystery; 
and  in  the  morning,  my  dear  wife  and  some  others  coming 
to  my  bedside,  I  asked  them  if  they  knew  who  I  was,  and 
they  telling  me  I  was  John  Woolman,  thought  I  was  light- 
headed, for  I  told  them^  not  what  the  angel  said,  nor  was  I 
disposed  to  talk  much  to  any  one,  but  was  very  desirous  to 
get  so  deep  that  I  miight  understand  this  mystery. 

My  tongue  was  often  so  dry  that  I  could  not  speak  till  I 
had  moved  it  about  and  gathered  some  mioisture,  and  as  I 
lay  still  for  a  time  I  at  length  felt  a  Divine  power  prepare 
my  mouth  that  I  could  speak,  and  I  then  said,  "  I  am  cruci- 
fied with  Christ,  nevertheless  I  live;  yet  not  I,  but  Christ 
liveth  in  me.  And  the  life  which  I  now  live  in  the  flesh  I 
live  by  the  faith  of  the  Son  of  God,  v/ho  loved  me  and  gave 
himiself  for  me."  Then  the  mystery  was  opened  and  I  per- 
ceived there  was  joy  in  heaven  over  a  sinner  who  had  re- 
pented, and  that  the  language  "  John  Woolman  is  dead," 
meant  no  more  than  the  death  of  my  own  will. 

My  natural  understanding  now  returned  as  before,  and  I 
saw  that  people  setting  off  their  tables  with  silver  vessels 
at  entertainments  was  often  stained  with  worldly  glory,  and 
that  in  the  present  state  of  things  I  should  take  heed  how 
I  fed  myself  out  of  such  vessels.  Going  to  our  Monthly 
Meeting  soon  after  my  recovery,  I  dined  at  a  Friend's  house 
where  drink  was  brought  in  silver  vessels,  and  not  in  any 
other.  Wanting  something  to  drink,  I  told  him  my  case  with 
weeping,  and  he  ordered  some  drink  for  me  in  another 
vessel.  I  afterwards  went  through  the  same  exercise  in  sev- 
eral Friends'  houses  in  America,  as  v/ell  as  in  England, 
and  I  have  cause  to  acknowledge  with  humble  reverence 
the  loving-kindness  of  my  Heavenly  Father,  who  hath  pre- 
served me  in  such  a  tender  frame  of  mind,  that  none,  I  be- 
lieve, have  ever  been  offended  at  what  I  have  said  on  that 
subject. 

After  this  sickness  I  spake  not  in  public  meetings  for 
worship  for  nearly  one  year,  but  my  mind  was  very  often 

11  HO— Vol.  1 


322  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

in  company  with  the  oppressed  slaves  as  I  sat  in  meetings; 
and  though  under  his  dispensation  I  was  shut  up  from 
speaking,  yet  the  spring  of  the  gospel  ministry  v/as  many 
tim.es  livingly  opened  in  me,  and  the  Divine  gift  operated 
by  abundance  of  weeping,  in  feeling  the  oppression  of  this 
people.  It  being  so  long  since  I  passed  through  this  dis- 
pensation, and  the  matter  remaining  fresh  and  lively  in  my 
mind,  I  believe  it  safest  for  me  to  commit  it  to  writing. 

Thirtieth  of  eighth  month. — This  morning  I  wrote  a  letter 
in  substance  as  follows: — • 

Beloved  Friend, — My  mind  is  often  affected  as  I  pass 
along  under  a  sense  of  the  state  of  many  poor  people  who 
sit  under  that  sort  of  ministry  which  requires  much  outward 
labor  to  support  it ;  and  the  loving-kindness  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  in  opening  a  pure  gospel  miinistry  in  this  nation  hath 
often  raised  thankfulness  in  my  heart  to  him.  I  often  re- 
member the  conflicts  of  the  faithful  under  persecution,  and 
now  look  at  the  free  exercise  of  the  pure  gift  uninterrupted 
by  outward  laws,  as  a  trust  committed  to  us,  which  requires 
our  deepest  gratitude  and  m.ost  careful  attention.  I  feel  a 
tender  concern  that  the  work  of  reformation  so  prosperously 
carried  on  in  this  land  within  a  ievv  ages  past  may  go  for- 
ward and  spread  among  the  nations,  and  may  not  go  back- 
ward through  dust  gathering  on  our  garments,  who  have 
been  called  to  a  work  so  great  and  so  precious. 

Last  evening  during  thy  absence  I  had  a  little  opportunity 
with  some  of  thy  family,  in  which  I  rejoiced,  and  feeling  a 
sweetness  on  my  mind  towards  thee,  I  now  endeavor  to  open 
a  little  of  the  feeling  I  had  there. 

I  have  heard  that  you  in  these  parts  have  at  certain  seasons 
Meetings  of  Conference  in  relation  to  Friends  living  up  to 
our  principles,  in  which  several  meetings  unite  in  one.  With 
this  I  feel  unity,  having  in  some  measure  felt  truth  lead 
that  way  among  Friends  in  America,  and  I  have  found,  m.y 
dear  friend,  that  in  these  labors  all  superfluities  in  our  own 
living  are  against  us,  I  feel  that  pure  love  towards  thee  in 
which  there  is  freedom, 

I  look  at  that  precious  gift  bestowed  on  thee  with  awful- 
aess  before  Him  who  gave  it,  and  feel  a  desire  that  we  may 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  323 

be  so  separated  to  the  gospel  of  Christ,  that  those  things 
which  proceed  from  the  spirit  of  this  world  may  have  no 
place  among  us.  Thy  friend, 

John  Woolman. 

I  rested  a  few  days  in  body  and  mind  with  our  friend, 
Jane  Crosfield,  who  was  once  in  America.  On  the  sixth 
day  of  the  week  I  was  at  Kendal,  in  Westmoreland,  and  at 
Greyrig  Meeting  the  30th  day  of  the  month,  and  first  of  the 
week.  I  have  known  poverty  of  late,  and  have  been  gra- 
ciously supported  to  keep  in  the  patience,  and  am  thankful 
under  a  sense  of  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  towards  those 
who  are  of  a  contrite  spirit. 

Sixth  of  ninth  month  and  first  of  the  week. — I  was  this 
day  at  Counterside,  a  large  m.eeting-house,  and  very  full. 
Through  the  opening  of  pure  love,  it  was  a  strengthening 
time  to  m.e,  and  I  believe  to  many  m.ore. 

Thirteenth  of  ninth  month. — This  day  I  was  at  Leyburn, 
a  small  meeting;  but,  the  towns-people  coming  in,  the  house 
was  crowded.  It  was  a  time  of  heavy  labor,  and  I  believe 
v/as  a  profitable  meeting.  A^t  this  place  1  heard  that  my 
kinsman,  William  Hunt,  from  North  Carolina,  who  was  on 
a  religious  visit  to  Friends  in  England,  departed  this  life 
on  the  9th  of  this  month,  of  the  sm.all-pox,  at  Newcastle. 
He  appeared  in  the  ministry  vv^hen  a  youth,  and  his  labors 
therein  were  of  good  savor.  He  travelled  much  in  that 
work  in  Amierica.  I  once  heard  him  say  in  public  testimony, 
that  his  concern  in  that  visit  was  to  be  devoted  to  the  service 
of  Christ  so  fully  that  he  might  not  spend  one  minute  in 
pleasing  him.self,  which  words,  joined  with  his  example,  was 
a  means  of  stirring  up  the  pure  mind  in  me. 

Having  of  late  often  travelled  in  wet  weather  through 
narrow  streets  in  towns  and  villages,  where  dirtiness  under 
foot  and  the  scent  arising  fromi  that  filth  v/hich  more  or  less 
infects  the  air  of  all  thickly  settled  tov/ns  were  disagreeable; 
and,  being  but  weakly,  I  have  felt  distress  both  in  body  and 
mind  with  that  which  is  impure.  In  these  journeys  I  have 
been  where  much  cloth  hath  been  dyed,  and  have,  at  sundry 
times,  walked  over  ground  where  much  of  their  dye-stuffs  has 
drained  away.    This  hath  produced  a  longing  in  my  mind 


324  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

that  people  might  come  into  cleanness  of  spirit,  cleanness  of 
person,  and  cleanness  about  their  houses  and  garments. 

Some  of  the  great  carry  delicacy  to  a  great  height  them- 
selves, and  yet  real  cleanliness  is  not  generally  promoted. 
Dyes  being  invented  partly  to  please  the  eye  and  partly  to 
hide  dirt,  I  have  felt  in  this  weak  state,  when  travelling  in 
dirtiness,  and  affected  with  unwholesome  scents,  a  strong 
desire  that  the  nature  of  dyeing  cloth  to  hide  dirt  may  be 
more  fully  considered. 

Washing  our  garments  to  keep  them  sweet  is  cleanly,  but 
it  is  the  opposite  to  real  cleanliness  to  hide  dirt  in  them. 
Through  giving  way  to  hiding  dirt  in  our  garments  a  spirit 
which  would  conceal  that  v/hich  is  disagreeable  is  strength- 
ened. Real  cleanliness  becometh  a  holy  people;  but  hiding 
that  which  is  not  clean  by  coloring  our  garments  seems  con- 
trary to  the  sweetness  of  sincerity.  Through  some  sorts  of 
dyes  cloth  is  rendered  less  useful.  And  if  the  value  of  dye- 
stuffs,  and  expense  of  dyeing,  and  the  damage  done  to  cloth, 
[were  all  added  together,  and  that  cost  applied  to  keeping  all 
sweet  and  clean,  hov7  much  more  would  real  cleanliness 
prevail. 

On  this  visit  to  England  I  have  felt  some  instructions 
sealed  on  my  mind,  which  I  am  concerned  to  leave  in  writing 
for  the  use  of  such  as  are  called  to  the  station  of  a  minister 
of  Christ 

Christ  being  the  Prince  of  Peace,  and  we  being  no  more 
than  ministers,  it  is  necessary  for  us  not  only  to  feel  a  con- 
cern in  our  first  going  forth,  but  to  experience  the  renewing 
thereof  in  the  appointment  of  meetings.  I  felt  a  concern 
in  America  to  prepare  for  this  voyage,  and  being  through 
the  mercy  of  God  brought  safe  hither,  my  heart  was  like  a 
vessel  that  wanted  vent.  For  several  weeks  after  my  arrival, 
when  my  mouth  was  opened  in  meetings,  it  was  like  the 
raising  of  a  gate  in  a  water-course  when  a  weight  of  water 
lay  upon  it.  In  these  labors  there  was  a  fresh  visitation  to 
many,  especially  to  the  youth;  but  sometimes  I  felt  poor 
and  empty,  and  yet  there  appeared  a  necessity  to  appoint 
meetings.  In  this  I  was  exercised  to  abide  in  the  pure  life 
of  truth,  and  in  all  my  labors  to  watch  diligently  against  the 
motions  of  self  in  my  own  mind. 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN  325 

I  have  frequently  found  a  necessity  to  stand  up  when  the 
spring  of  the  ministry  was  low,  and  to  speak  from  the  ne- 
cessity in  that  which  subjecteth  the  wall  of  the  creature; 
and  herein  I  was  united  with  the  suffering  seed,  and  found 
inward  sweetness  in  these  mortifying  labors.  As  I  have 
been  preserved  in  a  watchful  attention  to  the  divine  Leader, 
under  these  dispensations  enlargement  at  times  hath  fol- 
lowed, and  the  power  of  truth  hath  risen  higher  in  some 
meetings  than  I  ever  knew  it  before  through  me.  Thus  I 
have  been  more  and  more  instructed  as  to  the  necessity  of 
depending,  not  upon  a  concern  which  I  felt  in  A.merica  to 
come  on  a  visit  to  England,  but  upon  the  daily  instructions 
of  Christ,  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

Of  late  I  have  sometimes  felt  a  stop  in  the  appointment 
of  mxcetings,  not  v/holly,  but  in  part:  and  I 'do  not  feel 
liberty  to  appoint  them  so  quickly,  one  after  another,  as  I 
have  done  heretofore.  The  work  of  the  ministry  being  a 
v/ork  of  Divine  love,  I  feel  that  the  openings  thereof  are 
to  be  waited  for  in  all  our  appointm.ents.  O,  how  deep  is 
Divine  wisdom !  Christ  puts  forth  his  ministers  and  goeth 
before  them;  and  O,  how  great  is  the  danger  of  departing 
from  the  pure  feeling  of  that  which  leadeth  safely !  Christ 
knoweth  the  state  of  the  people,  and  in  the  pure  feeling  of 
the  gospel  ministry  their  states  are  opened  to  his  servants. 
Christ  knoweth  when  the  fruit-bearing  branches  themselves 
have  need  of  purging.  O  that  these  lessons  may  be  re- 
membered by  me !  and  that  all  who  appoint  meetings  may 
proceed  in  the  pure  feeling  of  duty ! 

I  have  sometimes  felt  a  necessity  to  stand  up,  but  that 
spirit  which  is  of  the  world  hath  so  much  prevailed  in  many, 
and  the  pure  life  of  truth  hath  been  so  pressed  dovm,  that 
I  have  gone  forward,  not  as  one  travelling  in  a  road  cast  up 
and  well  prepared,  but  as  a  man  walking  through  a  miry 
place  in  which  are  stones  here  and  there  safe  to  step  on,  but 
so  situated  that  one  step  being  taken,  time  is  necessary  to 
see  where  to  step  next.  Now  I  find  that  in  a  state  of  pure 
obedience  the  mind  learns  contentment  in  appearing  weak 
and  foolish  to  that  wisdom  which  is  of  the  world;  and  ill 
these  lowly  labors,  they  who  stand  in  a  low  place  and  are 
rightly  exercised  under  the  cross  will  find  nourishment.    The 


S26  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

gift  is  pure ;  and  while  the  eye  is  single  in  attending  thereto 
the  understanding  is  preserved  clear;  self  is  kept  out.  We 
rejoice  in  filling  up  that  which  remains  of  the  afflictions  o£ 
Christ  for  his  body's  sake^  which  is  the  church. 

The  natural  man  loveth  eloquence,  and  many  love  to  hear 
eloquent  orations,  and  if  there  be  not  a  careful  attention 
to  the  gift,  men  who  have  once  labored  in  the  pure  gospel 
ministry,  growing  weary  of  suffering,  and  ashamed  of  ap- 
pearing weak,  may  kindle  a  fire,  compass  themselves  about 
with  sparks,  and  walk  in  the  light,  not  of  Christ,  who  is 
under  suffering,  but  of  that  fire  which  they  in  departing 
from  the  gift  have  kindled,  in  order  that  those  hearers  who 
have  left  the  meek,  suffering  state  for  worldly  v/isdom 
may  be  warmed  with  this  fire  and  speak  highly  of  their 
labors.  That  which  is  of-  God  gathers  to  God,  and  that 
which  is  of  the  world  is  ov^7ned  by  the  world. 

In  this  journey  a  labor  hath  attended  my  mind,  that  the 
ministers  among  us  may  be  preserved  in  the  meek,  feeling 
life  of  truth,  where  we  m.ay  have  no  desire  but  to  follow 
Christ  and  to  be  with  him,  that  when  he  is  under  suffering, 
we  may  suffer  v/ith  him,  and  never  desire  to  rise  up  in 
dominion,  but  as  he,  by  the  virtue  of  his  own  spirit,  m3,y_ 
raise  us. 


THE  DEATH  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAK 

JOHN  JVOOLMA27  died  at  York,  England,  Octoler  7,  1772.  His 
last  days  are  memorialized  in  the  foUoicing  extract  from  "The 
testimony  of  Friends  in  TorJcshire  at  their  Quarterly  Meeting, 
held  at  YorJc  the  2Jith  and  25th  of  the  third  month,  1773,  conr 
cerning  John  Woohnan,  of  Mou7it  Holly,  in  the  Province  of 
New  Jersey,  North  America,  who  departed  this  life  at  the 
house  of  our  Friend  Thomas  Priestman,  in  the  suhurhs  of  this 
city,  the  7th  of  the  tenth  month,  1772,  and  was  interred  in  the 
hurial-ground  of  Friends  the  9th  of  the  same,  aged  ahout  fifty- 
two  years: 

"This  our  valuable  friend  having  heen  under  a  religious  engage^ 
ment  for  some  time  to  visit  Friends  in  this  nation,  and  more 
especially  us  in  the  northern  parts,  undertooh  the  same  in  full 
concurrence  and  near  sympathy  ivith  his  friends  and  ibrethren  at 
home,  as  appeared  hy  certificates  from  the  Monthly  and  Quarterly 
Meetings  to  lohich  he  helonged,  and  from  the  Spring  Meeting  of 
ministers  atid  elders  held  at  Philadelphia  for  Pennsylvania  and 
New  Jersey. 

"Ee  arrived  in  the  city  of  London  the  heginning  of  the  last 
Yearly  Meeting,  and,  after  attending  that  meeting,  traveled  north- 
ward, visiting  the  Quarterly  Meetings  of  Hertfordshire,  Bucking- 
hamshire, Northamptonshire,  Ooofordshirt,,  and  Worcestershire,  and 
divers  particular  meetings  in  his  icay. 

"Ee  visited  many  meetings  on  the  west  side  of  this  country, 
also  some  in  Lancashire  and  Westmoreland,  from  whence  he  came 
to  our  Quarterly  Meeting  in  the  last  ninth  month,  and  though 
much  out  of  health,  yet  was  enabled  to  attends  all  the  sittings  of 
that  meeting  except  the  last. 

"Eis  disorder,  which  proved  the  small-pox,  increased  speedily 
upon  him,  and  was  very  afflicting,  under  which  he  U)as  supported 
in  much  meekness,  patience,  and  Christian  fortitude.  To  those 
who  attended  him,  in  his  illness,  his  mind  appeared  to  he  centred 

327 


'328  THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  WOOLMAN 

in  Divine  love,  under  the  precious  influence  whereof  we  "believe 
he  -finished  his  course,  and  entered  into  the  mansions  of  ever- 
lasting rest. 

"In  the  early  part  of  his  illness  he  requested  a  Friend  to  vjrite, 
and  he  hroTce  forth  thus: 

" '0  Lord  my  God!  the  amazing  horrors  of  darkness  were 
gathered  around  me  and  covered  me  all  over,  and  I  saw  no  way 
t^  go  forth;  I  felt  the  misery  of  my  felloio-creatures  separated 
fr^x^il  the  Divine  harmony,  and  it  was  heavier  than  I  could  hear, 
and  I  was  crushed  down  under  it;  I  lifted  up  my  hand  and 
stretched  out  my  arm,  hut  there  icas  none  to  help  me;  I  looked 
round  ahout  and  was  amazed.  In  the  depth  of  misery,  0  Lord!  1 
remembered  that  thou  art  omnipotent,  that  I  had  called  thee 
Father,  and  I  felt  that  I  loved  thee,  and  I  was  made  quiet  in  thy 
will,  and  I  waited  for  deliverance  from  thee;  thou  hadst  pity 
upon  me  when  no  man  could  help  me;  I  saw  that  meekness 
under  suffering  was  showed  to  us  in  the  most  affecting  eocam- 
ple  of  thy  Son,  and  thou  taught  me  to  follow  him,  and  I  said. 
Thy  unll,  0  Father,  he  done.' 

''Many  more  of  his  weighty  expressions  might  have  heen  in- 
serted here,  hut  it  was  deemed  unnecessary,  they  heing  already 
puhlished  in  print" 


iOME   FRUITS   OF   SOLITUD: 

BY  WILLIAM  PENN 


INTRODUCTORY  NOTE 

William  PenNj  ihe  foimder  of  Pennsylvania,  wti'S  the  son  of 
Sir  William  Penn,  a  distinguished  English  Admiral.  He  was 
horn  in  1644.  His  boyhood  was  marked  by  a  combination  of 
pietism  zvith  a  strong  interest  i^i  athletics,  and  he  was  expelled 
from  Oxford  for  nonconformity.  After  leaving  the  University 
he  traveled  on  the  Continent,  served  in  the  navy,  and  studied 
lazv.  In  i66y  he  became  a  Quaker,  and  in  the  next  year  he  was 
committed  to  the  Tozver  for  an  attack  en  the  orthodoxy  of  the 
day.  During  his  imprisonment  he  zvrote  his  well-known  treatise 
on  •self-sacrifice,  "No  Cross,  No  Crozvn" ;  and  after  his  re- 
lease he  suffered  from  time  to  time  renewed  imprisonments, 
till  he  finally  turned  his  attention  to  America  as  a  possible  refuge 
for  the  persecuted  Friends.  In  1682  he  obtained  a  charter  creat- 
ing him  proprietor  and  governor  of  East  New  Jersey  and  Penn- 
sylvania, and,  after  drawing  up  a  constitution  for  the  colony  on 
the  basis  of  religious  toleration,  he  sailed  for  his  new  province. 
After  two  years,  during  which  the  population  of  the  colony  grew 
rapidly  through  emigration  from  Germany,  Holland,  and 
Scandinavia,  as  well  as  Great  Britain,  he  returned  to  England, 
where  his  consultations  with  James  II,  whom  he  believed  to  be 
sincere  in  his  professions  of  toleration,  led  to  much  misunder- 
standing of  his  motives  and  character.  At  the  Revolution  of 
1688  he  was  treated  as  a  Jacobite,  but  finally  obtained  the  good- 
will of  William  III,  and  resumed  his  preaching  and  writing.  In 
1699  he  again  came  to  America,  this  time  with  the  intention  of 
remaining;  but  two  years  later  he  went  home  to  oppose  the  pro- 
posal to  convert  his  province  into  a  crozvn  colony.  Queen  Anne 
received  him  favorably,  and  he  remained  in  England  till  his  death 
in  1718. 

Penn's  voluminous  writings  are  largely  controversial,  and  often 
concerned  with  issues  no  longer  vital.  But  his  interpretation  and 
defense  of  Quaker  doctrine  remain  important;  and  the  ^'Fruits 
of  Solitude,"  here  printed,  is  a  mine  of  pithy  comm.ent  upon 
human  life,  which  combines  with  the  acute  common  sense  of 
Franklin  the  spiritual  elevation  of  Woolman. 


CONTENT! 


PART   I 


Ignorance    ...    

Education    ..<,     =     .,.,<.= 

Pride 

Luxury     ,    c    .    ,    .    .    .    o    .    , 
Inconsideration  .     .     .     o     0     o    . 
Disappointment  and  Resignation 
Murmuring  .     =     .    .     . 
Censoriousness     .     .     . 
Bounds  05^  Charity 
Frugality  or  Bounty 

Discipline 

Industry  ...,». 
Temperance      .    . 
A-pparel  .    .    o    . 

iliGHT  Marriage  c 

\varice    .... 
Friendship    .    .    = 
Qualities  op  a  Friend 
Caution  and  Conduct 
Reparation  ..... 
Rules  op  Conversation 
Eloquence    ,    .    .    ,    . 

Temper     

Truth  ...»  o  ....  » 
Justice  .  .  ,  »  c  »  =  <.  . 
Secrecy  ,.00=00.0 
Complacency    .    .    .    »    .    .    . 

OHIFTS   c.oeaaooae 

Interest .  .  .  »  .  o  »  «  . 
Inquiry    .    .    «    e    o    «    c    .    . 

331 


PAGE 

•  331^ 
'  331 
339 
341 
341 
342 
342 
,  342 
343 
344 
344 
344 
345 
346 
346 

347 

350 
35«^ 
351 
351 
352 


•  353 

•  353 
.  353 
.  353 
.  353 
.  354 

•  354 
•^  354 


332 

RlOHT-TIMING     .      .      .      . 

Knowledge  ....<. 

Wit o    . 

Obedience  to  Parents 
Bearing    .    .    .    ,    o 
Promising      .... 
Fidelity  ..... 

Master 

Servant  .  .  .  .  . 
Jealousy  ..... 
Posterity  .... 
A  Country  Life  .  = 
|Art  and  Project  . 
Industry  ..... 
Temporal  Happiness 
Respect  ..... 
Hazard  ..... 
Detraction  .  ,  .  . 
Moderation      .    ,    . 

Trick , 

Passion  ..... 
Personal  Cautions  =. 
Ballance  .  .  ,  o 
Popularity  .... 

Privacy 

Government  „  .  , 
A  Private  Life  .  . 
A  PuBLiCK  Life  .  . 
Qualifications  .  . 
Capacity  ..... 
Clean  Hands  .    .    . 

Dispatch 

Patience  ..... 
Impartiality  .  .  , 
Indifperency  .  .  . 
Neutrality      .    .    . 

A  Party  

Ostentation  .  .  . 
Compleat  Virtue  . 
Religion  o    .    .    .    . 


•     »     •     »     O     9     O 


PAGE 

•  354 
.  355 

•  355 
.355 

•  356 

o   356 

•  357 
»  357 
.  357 

.  358 

»  358 

"  359 
.  360 

o  360 
o   360 

.  361 
.  362 

0     363 

»  363 

o   363 

.  364 
»  365 
.  366 
.  366 
.  367 
.  370 

•  370 

•  371 
»  371 
.  371 

.  371 
.  372 

.  373 

.  374 

o  374 

.  374 

.  375 

.  375 

.  376 


THE    PREFACE 

Reader, — This  Enchiridion,  I  present  thee  with,  is  the  Fruit 
of  Solitude:  A  School  few  care  to  learn  in,  tho'  None  instructs 
us  better.  Some  Parts  of  it  are  the  Result  of  serious  Reflection: 
Others  the  Flashings  of  Lucid  Intervals:  Writ  for  private  Satis- 
faction, and  now  publish'd  for  an  Help  to  Human  Conduct. 

The  Author  blesseth  God  for  his  Retirement,  and  kisses  that 
Gentle  Hand  which  led  him  into  it :  For  though  it  should  prove 
Barren  to  the  World,  it  can  never  do  so  to  him. 

He  has  now  had  some  Time  he  could  call  his  own ;  a  Property- 
he  was  never  so  much  Master  of  before:  In  which  he  has  taken 
a  View  of  himself  and  the  World ;  and  observed  wherein  he  hath 
hit  and  mist  the  Mark;  What  might  have  been  done,  what 
mended,  and  what  avoided  in  his  Human  Conduct:  Together 
with  the  Omissions  and  Excesses  of  others,  as  well  Societies  and 
Governments,  as  private  Families,  and  Persons.  And  he  verily 
thinks,  were  he  to  live  over  his  Life  again,  he  could  not  only, 
with  God's  Grace,  serve  Him,  but  his  Neighbor  and  himself, 
better  than  he  hath  done,  and  have  Seven  Years  of  his  Time  to 
spare.  And  yet  perhaps  he  hath  not  been  the  Worst  or  the 
Idlest  Man  in  the  World ;  nor  is  he  the  Oldest.  And  this  is  the 
rather  said,  that  it  might  quicken,  Thee,  Reader,  to  lose  none  of 
the  Time  that  is  yet  thine. 

There  is  nothing  of  which  we  are  apt  to  be  so  lavish  as  of 
Time,  and  about  which  we  ought  to  be  more  solicitous ;  since 
without  it  we  can  do  nothing  in  this  World.  Time  is  what  we 
want  most,  but  what,  alas!  we  use  worst;  and  for  which  God 
will  certainly  most  strictly  reckon  with  us,  when  Time  shall 
be  no  more. 

It  is  of  that  Moment  to  us  in  Reference  to  both  Worlds, 
that  I  can  hardly  wish  any  Man  better,  than  that  he  would 
seriously  consider  what  he  does  with  his  Time:  Hov/  and  to 
What  Ends  he  Employs  it  ;  and  what  Returns  he  makes  to 
God,  his  Neighbor  and  Himself  for  It.  Will  he  ne'er  have  a 
Leidger  for  this  ?    This>  the  greatest  Wisdom  and  Work  of  Life. 

To  come  but  once  into  the  World,  and  Trifle  away  our  true 
Enjoyment  of  it,  and  of  our  selves  in  it,  is  lamentable  indeed. 
This  one  Refieetioa  would  yield  a  thinking  Person  great  Instruc- 

333 


334  THE  PREFACE 

tion.  And  since  nothing  below  Man  can  so  Think;  Man,  in 
being  Thoughtless,  must  needs  fall  below  himself.  And  that, 
to  be  sure,  such  do,  as  are  unconcern'd  in  the  Use  of  their  most 
Precious  Time. 

This  is  but  too  evident,  if  we  will  allow  our  selves  to  consider, 
that  there  's  hardly  any  Thing  we  take  by  the  Right  End,  or 
improve  to  its  just  Advantage. 

V7e  understand  little  of  the  Works  of  God,  either  in  Nature 
or  Grace.  We  pursue  False  Knowledge,  and  Mistake  Educa- 
tion extreamly.  We  are  violent  in  our  Affections,  Confused 
and  Immethodical  in  our  whole  Life ;  making  That  a  Burthen, 
which  was  given  for  a  Blessing ;  and  so  of  little  Comfort  to  our 
selves  or  others ;  Misapprehending  the  true  Notion  of  Happiness, 
and  so  missing  of  the  Right  Use  of  Life,  and  Way  of  happy 
Living, 

And  till  we  are  perswaded  to  stop,  and  step  a  little  aside,  out 
of  the  noisy  Crowd  and  Incumbering  Hurry  of  the  World,  and 
Calmly  take  a  Prospect  of  Things,  it  will  be  impossible  we 
should  be  able  to  make  a  right  Judgment  of  our  Selves  or  know 
our  own  Misery.  But  after  we  have  made  the  just  Reckonings 
which  Retirement  will  help  us  to,  we  shall  begin  to  think  the 
World  in  great  measure  Mad,  and  that  v^e  have  been  in  a  sort 
of  Bedlam  all  this  while. 

Reader,  whether  Young  or  Old,  think  it  not  too  soon  or  too 
late  to  turn  over  the  Leaves  of  thy  past  Life:  And  be  sure  to 
fold  down  where  any  Passage  of  it  may  affect  thee  °  And  bestow 
thy  Remainder  of  Time,  to  correct  those  Faults  in  thy  future 
Conduct;  Be  it  in  Relation  to  this  or  the  next  life.  What  thou 
wouldst  do,  if  what  thou  hast  done  were  to  do  again,  be  sure  to 
do  as  long  as  thou  livest,  upon  the  like  Ccca,sions. 

Our  Resolutions  seem  to  be  Vigorous,  as  often  as  we  reflect 
upon  our  past  Errors ;  But,  Alas !  they  are  apt  to  flat  again  upon 
fresh  Temptations  to  the  same  Things. 

The  Author  does  not  pretend  to  deliver  thee  an  Exact  Piece ; 
his  Business  not  being  Ostentation,  but  Charity.  'T  is  Miscel- 
laneous in  the  Matter  of  it,  and  by  no  means  Artificial  in  the 
Composure.  But  it  contains  Hints,  that  it  may  serve  thee  for 
Texts  to  Preach  to  thy  Self  upon,  and  which  comxprehend  Much 
of  the  Course  of  Human  Life:  Since  whether  thou  art  Parent  or 
Child,  Prince  or  Subject,  Master  or  Servant,  Single  or  Married, 


THE    PREFACE  335 

Publick  or  Private,  Mean  or  Honorable,  Rich  or  Poor,  Prosperous 
or  Improsperous,  in  Peace  or  Controversy,  in  Business  or  Solitude; 
Wbarever  be  thy  Inclination  or  Aversion,  Practice  or  Duty,  thou 
wilt  find  something  not  unsuitably  said  for  thy  Direction  and  Ad- 
vantage. Accept  and  Improve  what  deserves  thy  Notice;  The 
rest  excuse,  and  place  to  account  of  good  Will  to  Thee  and  the 
whole  Creation  of  God. 


SOME    FRUITS    OF    SOLITUDE 

IN   REFLECTIONS   AND   MAXIMS 

PART  I 

IGNORANCE 

IT  IS  admirable  to  consider  how  many  Millions  of  People 
come  into,  and  go  out  of  the  World,  Ignorant  of  them- 
selves, and  of  the  World  they  have  lived  in. 
2«  If  one  went  to  see  Windsor-Castle,  or  Hampton-Court, 
it  would  be  strange  not  to  observe  and  remember  the  Situ- 
ation, the  Building,  the  Gardens,  Fountains,  &c.  that  make 
up  the  Beauty  and  Pleasure  of  such  a  Seat?  And  yet  few 
People  know  themselves;  No,  not  their  own  Bodies,  the 
Houses  of  their  Minds,  the  most  curious  Structure  of  the 
World;  a  living  walking  Tabernacle:  Nor  the  World  of 
which  it  \\^as  made,  and  out  of  which  it  is  fed ;  which  would 
be  so  much  our  Benefit,  as  well  as  our  Pleasure,  to  know. 
We  cannot  doubt  of  this  when  we.  are  told  that  the  Invisible 
Things  of  God  are  brought  to  light  by  the  Things  that  are 
seen;  and  consequently  we  read  our  Duty  in  them  as  often 
as  v/e  look  upon  them,  to  him  that  is  the  Great  and  Wise 
Author  of  them,  if  we  look  as  we  should  do. 

3.  The  World  is  certainly  a  great  and  stately  Volume  of 
natural  Things ;  and  may  be  not  improperly  styled  the  Hiero- 
glyphicks  of  a  better :  But,  alas !  how  very  fev/  Leaves  of  it 
do  we  seriously  turn  over !  This  ought  to  be  the  Subject  of 
the  Education  of  our  Youth,  who,  at  Twenty,  when  they 
should  he  fit  for  Business,  know  little  or  nothing  of  it. 

EDUCATION 

4.  We  are  in  Pain  to  make  them  Scholars*,  but  not  Men  I 
To  talk,  rather  than  to  know^  which  is  true  Canting, 


338  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

5.  The  first  Thing  obvious  to  Children  is  what  is  sensible ; 
and  that  we  make  no  Part  of  their  rudiments. 

6.  We  press  their  Memory  too  soon,  and  puzzle,  strain,  and 
load  them  with  Words  and  Rules;  to  know  Grammer  and 
Rhetorick,  and  a  strange  Tongue  or  tv^^o,  that  it  is  ten 
to  one  may  never  be  useful  to  them;  Leaving  their  natural 
Genius  to  Mechanical  and  Physical,  or  natural  Knowledge 
uncultivated  and  neglected;  w^hich  would  be  of  exceeding 
Use  and  Pleasure  to  them  through  the  whole  Course  of 
their  Life. 

7.  To  be  sure,  Languages  are  not  to  be  despised  or  neg- 
lected.   But  Things  are  still  to  be  preferred. 

8.  Children  had  rather  be  making  of  Tools  and  Instru- 
ments of  Play;  Shaping,  Drawing,  Framing,  and  Building, 
&c.  than  getting  some  Rules  of  Propriety  of  Speech  by  Heart : 
And  those  also  would  follow  with  more  Judgment,  and  less 
Trouble  and  Time. 

9.  It  were  Happy  if  we  studied  Nature  more  in  natural 
Things ;  and  acted  according  to  Nature ;  whose  rules  are  few, 
plain  and  most  reasonable. 

10.  Let  us  begin  where  she  begins,  go  her  Pace,  and  close 
always  where  she  ends,  and  we  cannot  miss  of  being  good 
Naturalists. 

11.  The  Creation  would  not  be  longer  a  Riddle  to  us:  The 
Heavens,  Earth,  and  Waters,  with  their  respective,  various 
and  numerous  Inhabitants:  Their  Productions,  Natures, 
Seasons,  Sympathies  and  Antipathies ;  their  Use,  Benefit  and 
Pleasure,  would  be  better  understood  by  us :  And  an  eternal 
Wisdom,  Power,  Majesty,  and  Goodness,  very  conspicuous 
to  us,  thro'  those  sensible  and  passing  Forms:  The  World 
wearing  the  Mark  of  its  Maker,  whose  Stamp  is  everywhere 
visible,  and  the  Characters  very  legible  to  the  Children  of 
Wisdom. 

12.  And  it  would  go  a  great  way  to  caution  and  direct 
People  in  their  Use  of  the  World,  that  they  were  better 
studied  and  known  in  the  Creation  of  it. 

13.  For  how  could  Man  find  the  Confidence  to  abuse  it, 
while  they  should  see  the  Great  Creator  stare  them  in  the 
Face,  in  all  and  every  part  thereof? 

14.  Their  Ignorance  makes  them  insensible,  and  that  In- 


SSOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDB  3S9 

sensibility  liardy  in  misusing  this  noble  Creation,  that  has  the 
Stamp  and  Voice  of  a  Deity  every  where,  and  in  every  Thing 
to  the  Observing. 

15.  It  is  pity  therefore  that  Books  have  not  been  composed 
for  Youth,  by  some  curious  and  careful  Naturalists,  and  also 
Mechanicks,  in  the  Latin  Tongue,  to  be  used  in  Schools,  that 
they  might  learn  Things  with  Words:  Things  obvious  and 
familiar  to  them,  and  which  would  make  the  Tongue  easier 
to  be  obtained  by  them. 

16.  Many  able  Gardiners  and  Husbandmen  are  yet 
Ignorant  of  the  Reason  of  their  Calling;  as  most  Arti- 
ficers are  of  the  Reason  of  their  own  Rules  that  govern 
their  excellent  Workmanship.  But  a  Naturalist  and  Me- 
chanick  of  this  sort  is  Master  of  the  Reason  of  both,  and 
might  be  of  the  Practice  too,  if  his  Industry  kept  pace 
with  his  Speculation;  which  were  very  commxcndable ;  and 
without  which  he  cannot  be  said  to  be  a  complete  Natural- 
ist or  Mechanick. 

17.  Finally,  if  Man  be  the  Index  or  Epitomy  of  the  World, 
as  Philosophers  tell  us,  we  have  only  to  read  our  selves  well 
to  be  learned  in  it.  But  because  there  is  nothing  we  less  re- 
gard than  the  Characters  of  the  Power  that  made  us,  which 
are  so  clearly  written  upon  us  and  the  World  he  has  given  us, 
and  can  best  tell  us  what  we  are  and  should  be,  we  are  even 
Strangers  to  our  own  Genius :  The  Glass  in  which  we  should 
see  that  true  instructing  and  agreeable  Variety,  which  is  to 
be  observed  in  Nature,  to  the  Adm.iration  of  that  V/isdom 
and  Adoration  of  that  Power  which  made  us  all. 


PRIDE 

18.  And  yet  we  are  very  apt  to  be  full  of  our  selves,  in- 
stead of  Him  that  made  what  v/e  so  much  value ;  and,  but  for 
whom  v/e  can  have  no  Reason  to  value  our  selves.  For  we 
have  nothing  that  we  can  call  our  own;  no,  not  our  selves: 
For  we  are  all  but  Tenants,  and  at  Will  too,  of  the  great 
Lord  of  our  selves,  and  the  rest  of  this  great  Farm,  the 
World  that  we  live  upon. 

19.  But  methinks  we  cannot  answer  it  to  our  Strives  as  well 
as  our  Maker,  that  we  should  live  and  die  ignorant  of  our 


340  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

Selves,  and  thereby  of  Him  and  the  Obligations  we  are  tindef 
to  Him  for  our  Selves. 

20.  If  the  worth  of  a  Gift  sets  the  Obligation,  and  directs 
the  return  of  the  Party  that  receives  it;  he  that  is  ignorant 
of  it,  will  be  at  a  loss  to  value  it  and  the  Giver,  for  it. 

21.  Here  is  Man  in  his  Ignorance  of  himself.  He  knows 
not  how  to  estimate  his  Creator^  because  he  knows  not  how 
to  value  his  Creation.  If  we  consider  his  Make,  and  lovely 
Compositure;  the  several  Stories  of  his  lovely  Structure. 
His  divers  Mem-bers,  their  Order,  Function  and  Dependency  r 
The  Instruments  of  Food,  the  Vessels  of  Digestion,  the  sev- 
eral Transmutations  it  passes.  And  how  Nourishment  is  car- 
ried and  diffused  throughout  the  whole  Body,  by  most  innate 
and  imperceptible  Passages.  How  the  Animal  Spirit  is 
thereby  refreshed,  and  with  an  unspeakable  Dexterity  and 
Motion  sets  all  Parts  at  work  to  feed  themselves.  And  last 
of  all,  how  the  Rational  Soul  is  seated  in  the  Animal,  as  its 
proper  House,  as  is  the  Animal  in  the  Body:  I  say  if  this 
rare  Fabrick  alone  were  but  considered  by  us,  with  all  the 
rest  by  which  it  is  fed  and  comforted,  surely  Man  would 
have  a  more  reverent  Sense  of  the  Power,  Wisdom  and  Good- 
ness of  God,  and  of  that  Duty  he  owes  to  Him  for  it.  But 
if  he  would  be  acquainted  with  his  own  Soul,  its  noble  Facul- 
ties, its  Union  with  the  Body,  its  Nature  and  End,  and  the 
Providences  by  which  the  whole  Frame  of  Hum-anlty  is  pre- 
served, he  would  Admire  and  Adore  his  Good  and  Great  God. 
But  Man  is  become  a  strange  Contradiction  to  himiself ;  but 
it  is  of  himself;  Not  being  by  Constitution, but  Corruption, 
such. 

22.  He  would  have  others  obey  him,  even  his  own  kind; 
but  he  will  not  obey  God,  that  is  so  much  above  him,  and  who 
made  him. 

23.  He  will  lose  none  of  his  Authority;  no,  not  bate  an 
Ace  of  It ;  He  is  humorous^  to  his  Wife,  he  beats  his  Children, 
is  angry  with  his  Servants,  strict  with  his  Neighbors,  re- 
venges all  Affronts  to  Extremity;  but,  alas,  forgets  ail  the 
while  that  he  is  the  Man ;  and  is  more  in  Arrear  to  God,  that 
!s  so  very  patient  with  him,  than  they  are  to  him  with  whom 
he  is  so  strict  and  impatient. 

^  Capricious. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  341 

24.  He  is  curious  to  wash,  dress,  and  perfume  his  Body, 
but  careless  of  his  Soul.  The  one  shall  have  many  Hours, 
the  other  not  so  many  Minutes.  This  shall  have  three  or 
four  new  Suits  in  a  Year,  but  that  must  wear  its  old  Cloaths 
still. 

25.  If  he  be  to  receive  or  see  a  great  Man,  how  nice  and 
anxious  is  he  that  all  things  be  in  order?  And  with  what 
Respect  and  Address  does  he  approach  and  make  his  Court? 
But  to  God,  how  dry  and  formal  and  constrained  in  his 
Devotion  ? 

26.  In  his  Prayers  he  says,  Thy  Will  be  done:  But  mieans 
his  own :  At  least  acts  so. 

2y.  It  is  too  frequent  to  begin  with  God  and  end  v/ith  the 
World.  But  He  is  the  good  Man's  Beginning  and  End;  his 
Alpha  and  Omega. 

LUXURY 

28.  Such  is  now  become  our  Delicacy,  that  we  will  not  eat 
ordinary  Meat,  nor  drink  small,  pall'd^  Liquor ;  v/e  must  have 
the  best,  and  the  best  cook'd  for  our  Bodies,  while  our  Souls 
feed  on  empty  or  corrupted  Things. 

29.  In  short,  Man  is  spending  all  upon  a  bare  House,  and 
hath  little  or  no  Furniture  within  to  recommend  it;  which 
is  preferring  the  Cabinet  before  the  Jewel,  a  Lease  of  seven 
Years  before  an  Inheritance.  So  absurd  a  thing  is  Man,  after 
all  his  proud  Pretences  to  Wit  and  Understanding. 


INCONSIDERATION 

30.  The  want  of  due  Consideration  is  the  Cause  of  all  the 
Unhappiness  Man  brings  upon  himself.  For  his  second 
Thoughts  rarely  agree  with  his  first,  which  pass  not  without 
a  considerable  Retrenchment  or  Correction.  And  yet  that 
sensible  Warning  is,  too  frequently,  not  Precaution  enough 
for  his  future  Conduct. 

31.  Well  may  v/e  say  our  Infelicity  is  of  our  selves;  since 
there  is  nothing  we  do  that  we  should  not  do,  but  we  know 
k,  and  yet  do  it. 

a  Stale. 


342  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

DISAPPOINTMENT   AND  RESIGNATION 

32.  For  Disappointments,  that  come  not  by  our  own  Folly, 
they  are  the  Tryals  or  Corrections  of  Heaven :  And  it  is  our 
own  Fault,  if  they  prove  not  our  Advantage. 

33.  To  repine  at  them  does  not  mend  the  Matter :  It  is  only 
to  grumble  at  our  Creator.  But  to  see  the  Hand  of  God  in 
them,  with  an  humble  submission  to  his  Will,  is  the  Way  to 
turn  our  Water  into  Wine,  and  engage  the  greatest  Love  and 
Mercy  on  our  side. 

34.  We  must  needs  disorder  our  selves,  if  we  only  look  at 
our  Losses.  But  if  we  consider  how  little  we  deserve  what 
is  left,  our  Passion  will  cool,  and  our  Murmurs  will  turn  into 
Thankfulness. 

35.  If  our  Hairs  fall  not  to  the  Ground,  less  do  we  or  our 
Substance  without  God's  Providence. 

36.  Nor  can  we  fall  below  the  Arms  of  God,  how  lov/  so- 
ever it  be  we  fall. 

37.  For  though  our  Saviour's  Passion  is  over,  his  Com- 
passion is  not.  That  never  fails  his  humble,  sincere  Dis- 
ciples :  In  him,  they  find  more  than  all  that  they  lose  in  the 
World. 

MURMURING 

38.  Is  it  reasonable  to  take  it  ill,  that  any  Body  desires  o£ 
las  that  which  is  their  own  ?  All  we  have  is  the  Almighty's : 
[And  shall  not  God  have  his  own  when  he  calls  for  it  ? 

39.  Discontentedness  is  not  only  in  such  a  Case  Ingrati- 
tude, but  Injustice.  For  we  are  both  unthankful  for  the  time 
we  had  it,  and  not  honest  enough  to  restore  it,  if  v/e  could 
keep  it. 

40.  But  it  is  hard  for  us  to  look  on  things  in  such  a  Glass, 
and  at  such  a  Distance  from  this  low  World;  and  yet  it  is 
our  Duty,  and  would  be  our  Wisdom  and  our  Glory  to  do  so. 

CENSORIOUSNESS 

41.  We  are  apt  to  be  very  pert  at  censuring  others,  where 
we  will  not  endure  advice  our  selves.  And  nothing  shews 
our  Weakness  more  than  to  be  so  sharp-sighted  at  spying 
other  Men's  Faults:  and  so  purblind  about  our  own. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  343 

42.  When  the  Actions  of  a  Neighbor  are  upon  the  Stage, 
we  can  have  all  our  Wits  about  us,  are  so  quick  and  critical 
we  can  split  an  Hair,  and  find  out  ever  Failure  and  In- 
firmity :  But  are  without  feeling,  or  have  but  very  little  Sense 
of  our  own. 

43.  Much  of  this  comes  from  111  Nature,  as  well  as  from 
an  inordinate  Value  of  our  selves:  For  we  love  Rambling 
better  than  home,  and  blaming  the  unhappy,  rather  than  cov- 
ering and  relieving  them. 

44.  In  such  Occasions  some  shew  their  Malice,  and  are 
witty  upon  Misfortunes ;  others  their  Justice,  they  can  reflect 
a  pace:  But  fev/  or  none  their  Charity;  especially  if  it  be 
about  Money  Matters. 

45.  You  shall  see  an  old  Miser  come  forth  with  a  set 
Gravity,  and  so  much  Severity  against  the  distressed,  to  ex- 
cuse his  Purse,  that  he  v/ill,  e'er  he  has  done,  put  it  out  of 
all  Question,  That  Riches  is  Righteousness  with  him.  This, 
says  he,  is  the  Fruit  of  your  Prodigality  (as  if,  poor  Man, 
Covetousness  were  no  Fault)  Or,  of  your  Projects,  or  grasp- 
ing after  a  great  Trade :  While  he  himself  would  have  done 
the  same  thing,  but  that  he  had  not  the  Courage  to  venture 
so  much  ready  Money  out  of  his  own  trusty  Hands,  though  it 
had  been  to  have  brought  him  back  the  Indies  in  return.  But 
the  Proverb  is  just.  Vice  should  not  correct  Sin. 

46.  They  have  a  Right  to  censure,  that  have  a  Heart  to 
help :  The  rest  is  Cruelty,  not  Justice. 

BOUNDS   OF   CHARITY 

47.  Lend  not  beyond  thy  Ability,  nor  refuse  to  lend  out  of 
thy  Ability;  especially  when  it  will  help  others  more  than  it 
can  hurt  thee. 

48.  If  thy  Debtor  be  honest  and  capable,  thou  hast  thy 
Mony  again,  if  not  with  Encrease,  with  Praise:  If  he  prove 
insolvent,  don't  ruin  him  to  get  that,  v/hich  it  will  not  ruin 
thee  to  lose :  For  thou  art  but  a  Steward,  and  another  is  thy 
Owner,  Master  and  Judge. 

49.  The  more  merciful  Acts  thou  dost,  the  more  Mercy 
thou  wilt  receive;  and  if  with  a  charitable  Imployment  of 
thy  Temporal  Riches,  thou  gainest  eternal  Treasure,  thy  Pur- 


344  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

chase  is  infinite:  Thou  wilt  have  found  the  Art  of  Multi- 
plying^ indeed. 

FRUGALITY   OR   BOUNTY 

50.  Frugality  is  good  if  Liberality  be  join'd  v/ith  it  The 
first  is  leaving  off  superfluous  Expences;  the  last  bestowing 
them  to  the  Benefit  of  others  that  need.  The  first  without 
the  last  begins  Covetousness ;  the  last  without  the  first  begins 
Prodigality:  Both  together  make  an  excellent  Temper. 
Happy  the  Place  where  ever  that  is  found. 

51.  Were  it  universal,  we  should  be  Cur'd  of  two  Ex- 
treams.  Want  and  Excess:  and  the  one  would  supply  the 
other,  and  so  bring  both  nearer  to  a  Mean;  the  just  Degree 
of  earthly  Happiness. 

52.  It  is  a  Reproach  to  Religion  and  Governm.ent  to  suffer 
so  much  Poverty  and  Excess. 

53.  V/ere  the  Superfluities  of  a  Nation  valued^  and  made 
a  perpetual  Tax  or  Benevolence,  there  would  be  more  Alms- 
houses than  Poor;  Schools  than  Scholars;  and  enough  to 
spare  for  Government  besides. 

54.  Hospitality  is  good,  if  the  poorer  sort  are  the  subjects 
of  our  Bounty;  else  too  near  a  Superfluity. 

DISCIPLINE 

55.  If  thou  wouldst  he  happy  and  easie  in  thy  Family, 
above  all  things  observe  Discipline. 

56.  Every  one  in  it  should  know  their  Duty;  and  there 
should  be  a  Time  and  Place  for  every  thing;  and  whatever 
else  is  done  or  omitted,  be  sure  to  begin  and  end  with  God. 


INDUSTRY 

57.  Love  Labor:  For  if  thou  dost  not  want  it  for  Food, 
thou  rnayest  for  Physick.  It  is  wholesom  for  thy  Body,  and 
good  for  thy  Mind.  It  prevents  the  Fruits  of  Idleness,  which 
many  times  comes  of  nothing  to  do,  and  leads  too  many  to 
do  what  is  worse  tkan  nothing. 

58.  A  Garden,  an  Elaboratory,  a  Work-house,  Improve- 

®The  term  used  by  the  alchemists  for  increasing  the  precious  metals. 


SOMB  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  345 

ments  and  Breeding,  are  pleasant  and  Profitable  Diversions 
to  the  Idle  and  Ingenious:  For  here  they  miss  111  Company, 
and  converse  with  Nature  and  Art;  whose  Variety  are 
equally  grateful  and  instructing;  and  preserve  a  good  Con- 
stitution of  Body  and  Mind. 


TEMPERANCE 

59.  To  this  a  spare  Diet  contributes  much.  Eat  therefore 
to  live,  and  do  not  live  to  eat.  That's  like  a  Man,  but  this 
below  a  Beast. 

60.  Have  wholesome,  but  not  costly  Food,  and  be  rather 
cleanly  than  dainty  in  ordering  it. 

61.  The  Receipts  of  Cookery  are  swell'd  to  a  Volume,  but 
a  good  Stomach  excels  them  all;  to  v/hich  nothing  contrib- 
utes more  than  Industry  and  Temperance. 

62.  It  is  a  cruel  Folly  to  offer  up  to  Ostentation  so  many 
Lives  of  Creatures;  as  make  up  the  State  of  our  Treats;  as 
it  is  a  prodigal  one  to  spend  more  in  Sawce  than  in  Meat. 

63.  The  Proverb  says.  That  enough  is  as  good  as  a  Feast: 
But  it  is  certainly  better,  if  Superfluity  be  a  Fault,  which 
never  fails  to  be  at  Festivals. 

64.  If  thou  rise  with  an  Appetite,  thou  art  sure  never  to 
sit  down  without  one. 

65.  Rarely  drink  but  when  thou  art  dry;  nor  then,  be- 
tween Meals,  if  it  can  be  avoided. 

66.  The  smaller*  the  Drink,  the  clearer  the  Head,  and  the 
cooler  the  Blood;  which  are  great  Benefits  in  Temper  and 
Business. 

6y.  Strong  Liquors  are  good  at  some  Times,  and  in  small 
Proportions;  being  better  for  Physick  than  Food,  for  Cor- 
dials than  comm.on  Use. 

68.  The  most  common  things  are  the  most  useful;  which 
shews  both  the  Wisdom  and  Goodness  of  the  great  Lord  of 
the  Family  of  the  World. 

69.  What  therefore  he  has  made  rare,  don't  thou  use  too 
commonly :  Lest  thou  shouldest  invert  the  Use  and  Order  of 
things;  become  Wanton  and  Voluptuous;  and  thy  Blessings 
prove  a  Curse. 

4  Weaker. 


346  SOME   FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

70.  Let  nothing  be  lost,  said  our  Saviour.  But  that  is  lost 
that  is  misused. 

71.  Neither  urge  another  to  that  thou  v/ouldst  be  unwilling 
to  do  thy  self,  nor  do  thy  self  what  looks  to  thee  unseemly, 
and  intemperate  in  another. 

'J2.  All  Excess  is  ill:  But  Drunkenness  is  of  the  worst 
Sort.  It  spoils  Health,  dismounts  the  Mind,  and  unmans 
Men:  It  reveals  Secrets,  is  Quarrelsome,  Lascivious,  Impu- 
dent, Dangerous  and  Mad.  In  fine,  he  that  is  drunk  is  not 
a  Man:  Because  he  is  so  long  void  of  Reason,  that  distin- 
guishes a  Man  from  a  Beast. 


APPAREL 

73.  Excess  in  Apparel  is  another  costly  Folly.  The  very 
Trimming  of  the  vain  World  would  cloath  all  the  naked  one. 

74.  Chuse  thy  Cloaths  by  thine  own  Eyes,  not  another's. 
The  more  plain  and  simple  they  are,  the  better.  Neither  un- 
shapely, nor  fantastical;  and  for  Use  and  Decency,  and  not 
for  Pride. 

75.  If  thou  art  clean  and  warm,  it  is  sufficient;  for  more 
doth  but  rob  the  Poor,  and  please  the  Wanton. 

^(i.  It  is  said  of  the  true  Church,  the  King's  Daughter  is 
all  glorious  within.  Let  our  Care  therefore  be  of  our  Minds 
more  than  of  our  Bodies,  if  we  would  be  of  her  Com.munion. 

yy.  Y\fe  are  told  with  Truth,  that  Meekness  and  Modesty 
are  the  Rich  and  Charming  Attire  of  the  Soul:  And  the 
plainer  the  Dress,  the  more  Distinctly,  and  with  greater 
Lustre,  their  Beauty  shines. 

78.  It  is  great  Pity  such  Beauties  are  so  rare,  and  those  of 
Jezebel's  Forehead  are  so  common:  Whose  Dresses  are  In- 
centives to  Lust ;  but  Bars  instead  of  Motives,  to  Love  or 
Vertue. 

RIGHT    MARRIAGE 

79.  Never  Marry  but  for  Love;  but  see  that  thou  lov'st 

what  is  lovely. 

80.  If  Love  be  not  thy  chiefest  Motive,  thou  wilt  soon 
grow  weary  of  a  Married  State,  and  stray  from  thy  Promise^ 
to  search  out  thy  Pleasures  in  forbidden  Places. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  347 

8i.  Let  not  Enjoyment  lessen,  but  augment  Affection;  it 
being  the  basest  of  Passions  to  like  when  we  have  not,  what 
Vv'e  slight  when  we  possess. 

S2.  It  is  the  difference  betwixt  Lust  and  Love,  that  this  is 
fixt,  that  volatile.  Love  grows,  Lust  wastes  by  Enjoyment: 
And  the  Reason  is,  that  one  springs  from  an  Union  of  Souls, 
and  the  other  from  an  Union  of  Sense. 

83.  They  have  Divers  Originals,  and  so  are  of  different 
Families:  That  inward  and  deep,  this  superficial;  this  tran- 
sient, and  that  parmanent. 

84.  They  that  Marr}^  for  Money  cannot  have  the  trtie  Sat- 
isfaction of  Marriage;  the  requisite  Means  being  wanting. 

85.  Men  are  generally  more  careful  of  the  Breed  of  their 
Horses  and  Dogs  than  of  their  Children. 

86.  Those  must  be  of  the  best  Sort,  for  Shape,  Strength, 
Courage  and  good  Conditions:  But  as  for  these,  their  own 
Posterit}^,  Money  shall  answer  all  Things.  With  such,  it 
makes  the  Crooked  Streight,  sets  Squint-Eyes  Right,  cures 
Madness,  covers  Folly,  changes  ill  Conditions,  mends  the 
Skin,  gives  a  sweet  Breath,  repairs  Honors,  makes  Young, 
works  Wonders. 

87.  O  how  sordid  is  Man  grown !  Man,  the  noblest  Crea- 
ture in  the  World,  as  a  God  on  Earth,  and  the  Image  of  him 
that  made  it ;  thus  to  mistake  Earth  for  Heaven,  and  worship 
Gold  for  God ! 

AVARICE 

88.  Covetousness  is  the  greatest  of  Monsters,  as  well  as 
the  Root  of  all  Evil.  I  have  once  seen  the  Man  that  dyed 
to  save  Charges.  W^hat !  Give  Ten  Shillings  to  a  Doctor, 
and  have  an  Apothecary's  Bill  besides,  that  m_ay  come  to  I 
know  not  what !  No,  not  he :  Valuing  Life  less  than  Twenty 
Shillings.  But  indeed  such  a  Man  could  not  well  set  too  low 
a  Price  upon  himself ;  who,  though  he  liv'd  up  to  the  Chin  in 
Bags,  had  rather  die  than  find  in  his  Heart  to  open  one  of 
them,  to  help  to  save  his  Life. 

89.  Such  a  Man  is  felo  de  se^  and  deserves  not  Christian 
Burial. 

90.  He  is  a  common  Nusance,  a  Weyer*  cross  the  Stream^ 

'A  suicide.        'Dam. 


348  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

that  stops  the  Current:  An  Obstruction,  to  be  remov'd  by  a 
Purge  of  the  Law.  The  only  Gratification  he  gives  his 
Neighbors,  is  to  let  them  see  that  he  himself  is  as  little  the 
better  for  what  he  has,  as  they  are.  For  he  always  looks 
like  Lent;  a  Sort  of  Lay  Minim.^  In  some  Sense  he  may  be 
compared  to  Pharoah's  lean  Kine,  for  ail  that  he  has  does 
him  no  good.  He  com.monly  wears  his  Cloaths  till  they  leave 
him,  or  that  no  Body  else  can  wear  them.  He  affects  to  be 
thought  poor,  to  escape  Robbery  and  Taxes :  And  by  looking 
as  if  he  wanted  an  Alms,  excusing  himself  from  giving  any. 
He  ever  goes  late  to  Markets,  to  cover  buying  the  worst: 
But  does  it  because  that  is  cheapest.  He  lives  of  the  Offal. 
His  Life  were  an  insupportable  Punishment  to  any  Temper 
but  his  own :  And  no  greater  Torment  to  him  on  Earth,  than 
to  live  as  other  Men  do.  But  the  Misery  of  his  Pleasure  is, 
that  he  is  never  satisfied  with  getting,  and  always  in  Fear  of 
losing  what  he  cannot  use. 

91.  How  vilely  has  he  lost  himself,  that  becomes  a  Slave 
to  his  Servant,  and  exalts  him  to  the  Dignity  of  his  Maker ! 
Gold  is  the  God,  the  Wife,  the  Friend  of  the  Money-Monger 
of  the  World. 

92.  But  in  Marriage  do  thou  be  wise;  prefer  the  Person 
before  Money;  Vertue  before  Beauty,  the  Mind  before  the 
Body:  Then  thou  hast  a  Wife,  a  Friend,  a  Companion,  a 
Second  Self;  one  that  bears  an  equal  Share  with  thee  in  all 
thy  Toyls  and  Troubles. 

93.  Chuse  one  that  Measures  her  satisfaction,  Safety  and 
Danger,  by  thine;  and  of  whom  thou  art  sure,  as  of  thy 
secretest  Thoughts:  A  Friend  as  well  as  a  Wife,  v/hich  in- 
deed a  Wife  implies :  For  she  is  but  half  a  Wife  that  is  not, 
or  is  not  capable  of  being  such  a  Friend. 

94.  Sexes  make  no  Difference;  since  in  Souls  there  is 
none:  And  they  are  the  Subjects  of  Friendship. 

95.  He  that  minds  a  Body  and  not  a  Soul,  has  not  the 
better  Part  of  that  Relation ;  and  will  consequently  want  the 
Noblest  Comfort  of  a  Married  Life. 

96.  The  Satisfaction  of  our  Senses  is  low,  short,  and 
transient:  But  the  Mind  gives  a  more  raised  and  extended 
Pleasure,   and   is    capable   of   an  Happiness   founded   upon 

'  One  of  an  order  of  monks  pledged  to  the  observance  o£  perpetual  Lent. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  349 

Reason;  not  bounded  and  limited  by  the  Circumstances  that 
Bodies  are  confin'd  to. 

97.  Here  it  is  we  ought  to  search  out  our  Pleasure,  where 
the  Field  is  large  and  full  of  Variety,  and  of  an  induring 
Nature:  Sickness,  Poverty,  or  Disgrace,  being  not  able  to 
shake  it,  because  it  is  not  under  the  moving  Influences  of 
Worldly  Contingencies. 

98.  The  Satisfaction  of  those  that  do  so  is  in  well-doing, 
and  in  the  Assurance  they  have  of  a  future  Reward:  That 
they  are  best  loved  of  those  they  love  most,  and  that  they 
enjoy  and  value  the  Liberty  of  their  Minds  above  that  of 
their  Bodies;  having  the  whole  Creation  for  their  Prospect, 
the  most  Noble  and  Wonderful  Works  and  Providences  of 
God,  the  Histories  of  the  Antients,  and  in  them  the  Actions 
and  Examples  of  the  Vertuous;  and  lastly,  themselves,  their 
Affairs  and  Family,  to  exercise  their  Minds  and  Friendship 
upon. 

99.  Nothing  can  be  more  entire  and  without  Reserve; 
nothing  more  zealous,  affectionate  and  sincere ;  nothing  more 
contented  and  constant  than  such  a  Couple;  nor  no  greater 
temporal  Felicity  than  to  be  one  of  them. 

100.  Between  a  Man  and  his  Wife  nothing  ought  to  rule 
but  Love.  Authority  is  for  Children  and  Servants;  yet  not 
without  Sweetness. 

loi.  As  Love  ought  to  bring  them  together,  so  it  is  the 
best  Way  to  keep  them  well  together. 

102.  Wherefore  use  her  not  as  a  Servant,  whom  thou 
would'st,  perhaps,  have  serv'd  Seven  Years  to  have  ob- 
tained. 

103.  An  Husband  and  Wife  that  love  and  value  one  an- 
other, shew  their  Children  and  Servants,  That  they  should  do 
so  too.  Others  visibly  lose  their  Authority  in  their  Families 
by  their  Contempt  of  one  another;  and  teach  their  Children 
to  be  unnatnral  by  their  own  Example. 

104.  It  is  a  general  Fault,  not  to  be  more  careful  to  pre- 
serve Nature  in  Children;  who,  at  least  in  the  second  De- 
scent, hardly  have  the  Feeling  of  their  Relation ;  which  must 
be  an  unpleasant  Reflection  to  aft'ectionate  Parents. 

105.  Frequent  Visits,  Presents,  intimate  Correspondence 
and  Intermarriages  within  allowed  Bounds,  are  Means  of 


350  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

keeping  up  the  Concern  and  Affection  that  Nature  requires 
from  Relations. 

FRIENDSHIP 

io6.  Friendship  is  the  next  Pleasure  we  may  hope  for:  And 
where  we  find  it  not  at  home,  or  have  no  home  to  find  it  in, 
we  may  seek  it  abroad.  It  is  an  Union  of  Spirits,  a  Mar- 
riage of  Hearts,  and  the  Bond  thereof  Vertue. 

107.  There  can  be  no  Friendship  where  there  is  no  Free- 
dom. Friendship  loves  a  free  Air,  and  will  not  be  penned  up 
in  streight  and  narrow  Enclosures.  It  will  speak  freely,  and 
act  so  too;  and  take  nothing  ill  where  no  ill  is  meant;  nay, 
where  it  is,  'twill  easily  forgive,  and  forget  too,  upon  small 
Acknowledgm.ents. 

108.  Friends  are  true  Twins  in  Soul;  they  Sympathize  in 
every  thing,  and  have  the  Love  and  Aversion. 

109.  One  is  not  happy  without  the  other,  nor  can  either  of 
them  be  miserable  alone.  As  if  they  could  change  Bodies, 
they  take  their  turns  in  Pain  as  well  as  in  Pleasure;  reliev- 
ing one  another  in  their  most  adverse  Conditions, 

no.  What  one  enjoys,  the  other  cannot  "Want.  Like  the 
Primitive  Christians,  they  have  all  things  in  common,  and 
no  Property  but  in  one  another. 


QUALITIES   OF  A  FRIEND 

111.  A  true  Friend  unbosoms  freely,  advises  justly,  assists 
readily,  adventures  boldly,  takes  all  patiently,  defends  cour- 
ageously, and  continues  a  Friend  unchangeably. 

112.  These  being  the  Qualities  of  a  Friend,  we  are  to  find 
them  before  we  chuse  one. 

113.  The  Covetous,  the  Angry,  the  Proud,  the  Jealous, 
the  Talkative,  cannot  but  make  ill  Friends,  as  well  as  the 
False. 

114.  In  short,  chuse  a  Friend  as  thou  dost  a  Wife,  till 
Death  seperate  you. 

115.  Yet  be  not  a  Friend  beyond  the  Altar:  but  let  Virtue 
bound  thy  Friendship :  Else  it  is  not  Friendship,  but  an  Evil 
Confederacy. 

116.  If  my  Brother  or  Kinsman  will  be  my  Friend,  I  ought 


SOME   FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  351 

to  prefer  him  before  a  Stranger,  or  I  shew  little  Duty  or 
Nature  to  my  Parents. 

117.  And  as  we  ought  to  prefer  our  Kindred  in  Point  of 
Affection,  so  too  in  Point  of  Charity,  if  equally  needing  and 
deserving. 

CAUTION    AND    CONDUCT 

118.  Be  not  easily  acquainted,  lest  finding  Reason  to  cool, 
thou  makest  an  Enemy  instead  of  a  good  Neighbor. 

119.  Be  Reserved,  but  not  Sour;  Grave,  but  not  Formal; 
Bold,  but  not  Rash;  Humble,  but  not  Servile;  Patient,  not 
Insensible;  Constant,  not  Obstinate;  Chearful,  not  Light; 
Rather  Sweet  than  Familiar;  Familiar,  than  Intim^ate;  and 
Intimate  with  very  few,  and  upon  very  good  Grounds. 

120.  Return  the  Civilities  thou  receivest,  and  be  grateful 
for  Favors. 

REPARATION 

121.  If  thou  hast  done  an  Injury  to  another,  rather  own  it 
than  defend  it.  One  way  thou  gainest  Forgiveness,  the 
other,  thou  doubl'st  the  Wrong  and  Reckoning. 

122.  Some  oppose  Honor  to  Submission:  But  it  can  be  no 
Honor  to  maintain,  what  it  is  dishonorable  to  do. 

123.  To  confess  a  Fault,  that  is  none,  out  of  Fear,  is  in- 
deed m.ean:  But  not  to  be  afraid  of  standing  in  one,  is 
Brutish. 

124.  We  should  make  more  Haste  to  Right  our  Neighbor, 
than  we  do  to  wrong  him,  and  instead  of  being  Vindicative, 
we  should  leave  him  to  be  Judge  of  his  own  Satisfaction. 

125.  True  Honor  will  pay  treble  Damages,  rather  than 
justifie  one  wrong  with  another. 

126.  In  such  Controversies,  it  is  but  too  common  for  some 
to  say.  Both  are  to  blame,  to  excuse  their  own  Unconcerned- 
ness,  v/hich  is  a  base  Neutrality.  Others  will  cry,  They  are 
both  alike;  thereby  involving  the  Injured  with  the  Guilty, 
to  mince  the  Matter  for  the  Faulty,  or  cover  their  own  In- 
justice to  the  wronged  Party. 

127.  Fear  and  Gain  are  great  Perverters  of  Mankind,  and 
where  either  prevail,  the  Judgment  is  violated. 


3S2  SOME   FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

RULES   OF   CONVERSATION 

128.  Avoid  Company  where  it  is  not  profitable  or  neces- 
sary; and  in  those  Occasions  speak  little,  and  last. 

129.  Silence  is  Wisdom,  where  Speaking  is  Folly ;  and 
always  safe, 

130.  Some  are  so  Foolish  as  to  interrupt  and  anticipate 
those  that  speak,  instead  of  hearing  and  thinking  before  they 
answer ;  which  is  uncivil  as  well  as  silly. 

131.  If  thou  thinl<:est  twice,  before  thou  speakest  once, 
thou  wilt  speak  twice  the  better  for  it. 

132.  Better  say  nothing  than  not  to  the  Purpose.  And  to 
speak  pertinently,  consider  both  what  is  fit,  and  when  it  is 
fit  to  speak. 

133.  In  all  Debates,  let  Truth  be  thy  Aim,  not  Victory,  or 
an  unjust  Interest:  And  endeavor  to  gain,  rather  than  to 
expose  thy  Antagonist. 

134.  Give  no  Advantage  in  Argument,  nor  lose  any  that  is 
offered.    This  is  a  Benefit  which  arises  from  Temper. 

135.  Don't  use  thy  self  to  dispute  against  thine  own  Judg- 
ment, to  shew  Wit,  lest  it  prepare  thee  to  be  too  indifferent 
about  what  is  Right :  Nor  against  another  Man,  to  vex  him, 
or  for  mere  Trial  of  Skill ;  since  to  inform,  or  to  be  informed, 
ought  to  be  the  End  of  all  Conferences. 

136.  Men  are  too  apt  to  be  concerned  for  their  Credit, 
more  than  for  the  Cause. 


ELOQUENCE 

137.  There  is  a  Truth  and  Beauty  in  Rhetorick;  but  it 
oftener  serves  ill  Turns  than  good  ones. 

138.  Elegancy,  is  a  good  Meen  and  Address  given  to 
Matter,  be  it  by  proper  or  figurative  Speech:  V/here  the 
Words  are  apt,  and  allusions  very  natural,  Certainly  it  has  a 
moving  Grace:  But  it  is  too  artificial  for  Simplicity,  and 
oftentimes  for  Truth.  The  Danger  is,  lest  it  delude  the 
Weak,  who  in  such  Cases  may  mistake  the  Handmaid  for 
the  Mistress,  if  not  Error  for  Truth. 

139.  'T  is  certain  Truth  is  least  indebted  to  it,  because  she 
has  least  need  of  it,  and  least  uses  it. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  353 

140.  But  it  is  a  reprovable  Delicacy  in  them,  that  despise 
Truth  in  plain  Cloths. 

141.  Such  Luxuriants  have  but  false  Appetites;  like  those 
Gluttons,  that  by  Sawces  force  them,  where  they  have  no 
Stomach,  and  Sacrifice  to  their  Pallate,  not  their  Health: 
Which  cannot  be  without  great  Vanity,  nor  That  without 
some  Sin. 

TEMPER 

142.  Nothing  does  Reason  more  Right,  than  the  Coolness 
of  those  that  offer  it:  For  Truth  often  suffers  more  by  the 
Heat  of  its  Defenders,  than  from  the  Arguments  of  its 
Opposers. 

143.  Zeal  ever  follows  an  Appearance  of  Truth,  and  the 
Assured  are  too  apt  to  be  warm;  but  't  is  their  weak  aide 
in  Argument;  Zeal  being  better  shewn  against  Sin,  than 
Persons  or  their  Mistakes. 

TRUTH 

144.  Where  thou  art  Obliged  to  speak,  be  sure  speak  the 
Truth:  For  Equivocation  is  half  way  to  Lying,  as  Lying, 
the  whole  way  to  Hell. 

JUSTICE 

145.  Believe  nothing  against  another  but  upon  good  Au- 
thority: Nor  report  what  may  hurt  anotherj  unless  it  be  a 
greater  hurt  to  others  to  conceal  it. 


SECRECY 

246.  It  is  wise  not  to  seek  a  Secret,  and  honest  not  to 
reveal  one. 

147.  Only  trust  thy  self,  and  another  shall  not  betray  thee. 

148.  Openness  has  the  Mischief,  though  not  the  Malice  of 
Treachery. 

COMPLACENCY 

149.  Never  assent  merely  to  please  others.  For  that  is, 
besides  Flattery,  oftentimes  Untruth;  and  discovers  a  Mind 
liable  to  be  servile  and  base:  Nor  contradict  to  vex  others^ 

12  HC— Vol.  1 


354  SOME  FRUITS   OF  SOLITUDE 

for  that  shows  an  ill  Temper,  and  provokes,  btit  profits  no 
Body. 

SHIFTS 

150.  Do  not  accuse  others  to  excuse  thy  self;  for  that  is 
neither  Generous  nor  Just.  But  let  Sincerity  and  Ingenuity 
be  thy  Refuge,  rather  than  Craft  and  Falsehood:  for  Cun- 
ning borders  very  near  upon  Knavery. 

151.  Wisdom  never  uses  nor  wants  it.  Cunning  to  Wise, 
is  as  an  Ape  to  a  Man. 

INTEREST 

152.  Interest  has  the  Security,  tho'  not  the  Virtue  of  a 
Principle.  As  the  World  gees  't  is  the  surer  side ;  For  Men 
daily  leave  both  Relations  and  Religion  to  follow  it. 

153.  'T  is  an  odd  Sight,  but  very  evident,  That  Families 
and  Nations,  of  cross  Religions  and  Humors  unite  against 
those  of  their  own,  where  they  find  an  Interest  to  do  it. 

154.  We  are  tied  down  by  our  Senses  to  this  World;  and 
where  that  is  in  Question,  it  can  be  none  with  Worldly  Men, 
whether  they  should  not  forsake  all  other  Considerations 
for  it. 

INQUIRY 

155.  Have  a  care  of  Vulgar  Error?,  Dislike,  as  well  as 
Allov/  Reasonably. 

156.  Inquiry  is  Human;  Blind  Obedience  Brutal.  Truth 
never  loses  by  the  one,  but  often  suffers  by  the  other. 

157.  The  usefulest  Truths  are  plainest:  And  while  we 
keep  to  them,  our  Differences  cannot  rise  high. 

158.  There  may  be  a  Wantonness  in  Search,  as  well  as  a 
Stupidity  in  Trusting.  It  is  great  Wisdom  equally  to  avoid 
the  Extreams. 

RIGHT-TIMING 

159.  Do  nothing  improperly.  Some  are  Witty,  Kind,  Cold, 
^gry,  Easie,  Stiff,  Jealous,  Careless,  Cautious,  Confident, 
Close,  Open,  but  all  in  the  wrong  Place. 

160.  It  is  all  mistaking  where  the  Matter  is  of  Importance. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  355 

l6i.  It  is  not  enough  that  a  thing  be  Right,  if  it  be  not  fit 
to  be  done.  If  not  Imprudent,  tho'  Just,  it  is  not  advisable. 
He  that  loses  by  getting,  had  better  lose  than  get 


KNOWLEDGE 

162.  Knowledge  is  the  Treasure,  but  Judgment  the  Treas- 
urer of  a  Wise  Man. 

163.  He  that  has  more  Knowledge  than  Judgment,  is  m.ade 
for  another  Man's  use  more  than  his  own. 

164.  It  cannot  be  a  good  Constitution,  where  the  Appetite 
is  great  and  the  Digestion  is  weak. 

165.  There  are  some  Men  like  Dictionaries;  to  be  lookt 
into  upon  occasions,  but  have  no  Connection,  and  are  little 
entertaining. 

166.  Less  Knowledge  than  Judgment  will  always  have  the 
advantage  upon  the  Injudicious  knowing  Man. 

167.  A  Wise  Man  makes  what  he  learns  his  own,  'tother 
shows  he's  but  a  Copy,  or  a  Collection  at  most. 


WIT 

168.  Wit  is  an  happy  and  striking  way  of  expressing  a 
Thought. 

169.  'Tis  not  often  tho'  it  be  lively  and  mantling,  that  it 
carries  a  great  Body  with  it. 

170.  Wit  therefore  is  fitter  for  Diversion  than  Business, 
being  more  grateful  to  Fancy  than  Judgment. 

171.  Less  Judgment  than  Wit,  is  more  Sale  than  Ballast. 

172.  Yet  it  must  be  confessed,  that  Wit  gives  an  Edge  to 
Sense,  and  recommends  it  extreamly. 

173.  Where  Judgment  has  Wit  to  express  it,  there's  the 
best  Orator. 

OBEDIENCE  TO   PARENTS 

174.  If  thou  wouldest  be  obeyed,  being  a  Father;  being  a 
Son,  be  Obedient. 

175.  He  that  begets  thee,  owes  thee;  and  has  a  natural 
Right  over  thee. 

176.  Next  to  God,  thy  Parents ;  next  them,  the  Magistrate. 


356  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

177.  Remember  that  thou  are  not  more  indebted  to  tfiy 
Parents  for  thy  Nature,  than  for  thy  Love  and  Care. 

178.  Rebellion  therefore  in  Children,  was  made  Death  by 
God*s  Law,  and  the  next  Sin  to  Idolatry,  in  the  People; 
whl<:h  is  renouncing  of  God,  the  Parent  of  all. 

179.  Obedience  to  Parents  is  not  only  our  Duty,  but  our 
Interest.  If  we  received  our  Life  from  them.  We  prolong 
it  by  obeying  th^m:  For  Obedience  is  the  first  Command- 
ment with  Promise. 

180.  The  Obligation  is  as  indissolvable  as  the  Relation. 

181.  If  we  must  not  disobey  God  to  obey  them;  at  least  we 
must  let  them  see,  that  there  is  nothing  else  in  our  refusal. 
For  some  unjust  Commands  cannot  excuse  the  general  Neg- 
lect of  our  Duty.  They  will  be  our  Parents  and  we  must 
be  their  Children  still :  And  if  we  cannot  act  for  them  against 
God,  neither  can  we  act  against  them  for  ourselves  or  any^ 
thing  else. 

BEARING 

182.  A  Man  in  Business  must  put  up  many  Affronts,  if  he 
loves  his  own  Quiet. 

183.  We  must  not  pretend  to  see  all  that  we  see,  if  we 
would  be  easie. 

184.  It  were  endless  to  dispute  upon  everything  that  is 
disputable. 

185.  A  vindictive  Temper  is  not  only  mneasie  to  others, 
but  to  them  that  have  it. 

PROMISING 

186.  Rarely  Promise:  But,  if  Lawful,  constantly  perform. 

187.  Hasty  Resolutions  are  of  the  Nature  of  Vows;  and 
to  be  equally  avoided. 

188.  I  will  never  do  this,  says  one,  yet  does  it:  I  am  re- 
solved to  do  this,  says  another;  but  flags  upon  second 
Thoughts :  Or  does  it,  tho'  awkwardly,  for  his  Word's  sake : 
As  if  it  were  worse  to  break  his  Word,  than  to  do  amiss  in 
keeping  it, 

189.  Wear  none  of  thine  own  Chains;  but  keep  free, 
whilst  thou  art  free. 

190.  It  is  an  Effect  of  Passion  that  Wisdom  corrects,  to 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  357 

lay  thy  self  under  Resolutions  that  cannot  be  well  made,  and 
must  be  worse  performed. 


FIDELITY 

191.  Avoid  all  thou  canst  to  be  Entrusted:  But  do  thy  ut- 
most to  discharge  the  Trust  thou  undertakest:  For  Careless- 
ness is  Injurious,  if  not  Unjust. 

192.  The  Glory  of  a  Servant  is  Fidelity;  which  cannot  be 
without  Diligence,  as  well  as  Truth. 

193.  Fidelity  has  Enfranchised  Slaves,  and  Adopted  Ser- 
vants to  be  Sons. 

194.  Reward  a  good  Servant  well:  And  rather  quit  than 
Disquiet  thy  self  with  an  ill  one. 

MASTER 

195.  Mix  Kindness  with  Authority ;  and  rule  more  by  Dis- 
cretion than  Rigor. 

196.  If  thy  Servant  be  faulty,  strive  rather  to  convince 
him  of  his  Error,  than  discover  thy  Passion:  And  when  he 
is  sensible,  forgive  him. 

197.  Remember  he  is  thy  Fellow-Creature,  and  that  God's 
Goodness,  not  thy  Merit,  has  made  the  Difference  betwixt 
Thee  and  Him. 

198.  Let  not  thy  Children  Domineer  over  thy  Servants: 
Nor  suffer  them  to  slight  thy  Children. 

199.  Suppress  Tales  in  the  general:  But  where  a  Matter 
requires  notice,  encourage  the  Complaint,  and  right  the 
Aggrieved, 

200.  If  a  Child,  he  ought  to  Entreat,  and  not  to  Com-- 
mand;  and  if  a  Servant,  to  comply  where  he  does  not 
obey. 

201.  Tho'  there  should  be  but  one  Master  and  Mistress  in 
a  Family,  yet  Servants  should  know  that  Children  have  the 
Reversion. 

SERVANT 

202.  Indulge  not  unseemly  Things  in  thy  Master's  Chil- 
dren, nor  refuse  them  what  is  fitting :  For  one  is  the  highest 


358  SOME    FRUITS    OF    SOLITUDE 

Unfaithfumess,    and    the    other.    Indiscretion    as    \vell    as 
Disrespect. 

203.  Do  thine  own  Work  honestly  and  chearfully:  And 
when  that  is  done,  help  thy  Fellow;  that  so  another  time  he 
may  help  thee. 

204.  If  thou  wilt  be  a  Good  Servant,  thou  must  be 
True;  and  thou  canst  not  be  True  if  thou  Defraud'st  thy 
Master. 

205.  A  Master  may  be  Defrauded  many  ways  by  a  servant: 
A.S,  in  Time,  Care,  Pains,  Money,  Trust. 

206.  But,  a  True  Servant  is  the  Contrary:  He  's  Diligent, 
Careful,  Trusty.  He  Tells  no  Tales,  Reveals  no  Secrets, 
Refuses  no  Pains :  Not  to  be  Tempted  by  Gain,  nor  aw'd  by 
Fear,  to  Unfaithfulness. 

207.  Such  a  Servant,  serves  God  in  serving  his  Master; 
and  has  double  Wages  for  his  Work,  to  wit.  Here  and 
Hereafter. 

JEALOUSY 

208.  Be  not  fancifully  Jealous :  For  that  is  Foolish ;  as,  to 
be  reasonably  so,  is  Wise. 

209.  He  that  superfines  up  another  Man's  Actions,  cozens 
himself,  as  well  as  injures  them. 

210.  To  be  very  subtil  and  scrupulous  in  Business,  is  as 
hurtful,  as  being  over-confident  and  secure. 

211.  In  difficult  Cases,  such  a  Temper  is  Timorous;  and 
in  dispatch  Irresolute. 

212.  Experience  is  a  safe  Guide:  And  a  Practical  Head, 
is  a  great  Happiness  in  Business. 


POSTERITY 

213.  We  are  too  careless  of  Posterity;  not  consid^riaf 
that  as  they  are,  so  the  next  Generation  will  be. 

214.  If  we  would  am^nd  the  World,  we  should  mend  Our 
selves;  and  teach  our  Children  to  be,  not  what  we  are,  but 
what  they  should  be. 

215.  We  are  too  apt  to  awaken  and  turn  up  their  Pas- 
sions by  the  Examples  of  our  own ;  and  to  teach  them  to  be 
pleased,  not  with  what  is  best,  but  with  what  pleases  best. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  359 

216.  It  is  our  Duty,  and  ought  to  be  our  Care,  to 
ward  against  that  Passion  in  them,  which  is  more  es- 
pecially our  Own  Weakness  and  Affliction:  For  we  are  in 
great  measure  accountable  for  them,  as  well  as  for  our 
selves. 

217.  We  are  in  this  also  true  Turners  of  the  World  upside 
down:  For  Money  is  first,  and  Virtue  last,  and  least  in  our 
care. 

218.  It  is  not  How  we  leave  our  Children,  but  What  we 
leave  them. 

219.  To  be  sure  Virtue  is  but  a  Supplement,  and  not  a 
Principal  in  their  Portion  and  Character :  And  therefore  we 
see  so  little  Wisdom  or  Goodness  among  the  Rich,  in  pro- 
portion to  their  Wealth. 

A   COUNTRY  LIFE 

220.  The  Country  Life  is  to  be  pref err'd ;  for  there  we  see 
the  Works  of  God ;  but  in  Cities  little  else  but  the  Works  o£ 
Men:  And  the  one  makes  a  better  Subject  for  our  Con- 
templation than  the  other. 

221.  As  Puppets  are  to  Men,  and  Babies^  to  Children,  so 
is  Man's  Workmanship  to  God's :  We  are  the  Picture,  he  the 
Reality, 

222.  God's  Works  declare  his  Power,  Wisdom  and  Good- 
ness; but  Man's  Works,  for  the  most  part,  his  Pride,  Folly 
and  Excess.  The  one  is  for  use,  the  other,  chiefly,  for 
Ostentation  and  Lust. 

223.  The  Country  is  both  the  Philosopher's  Garden  and 
his  Library,  in  which  he  Reads  and  Contemplates  the  Power, 
Wisdom  and  Goodness  of  God. 

224.  It  is  his  Food  as  well  as  Study ;  and  gives  him  Life, 
as  well  as  Learning, 

225.  A  Sweet  and  Natural  Retreat  from  Noise  and  Talk, 
and  allows  opportunity  for  Reflection,  and  gives  the  best 
Subjects  for  it. 

226.  In  short,  't  is  an  Original,  and  the  Knowledge  and 
Improvement  of  it,  Man's  oldest  Business  and  Trade,  and 
the  best  he  can  be  of. 

s  Dolls. 


360  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

ART  AND  PROJECT 

227.  Art,  is  Good,  where  it  is  beneficial.  Socrates  wisely 
i)Ounded  his  Knowledge  and  Instruction  by  Practice. 

228.  Have  a  care  therefore  of*  Projects:  And  yet  despise 
nothing  rashly,  or  in  the  Lump. 

229.  Ingenuity,  as  well  as  Religion,  sometimes  suffers  be- 
tween two  Thieves;  Pretenders  and  Despisers. 

230.  Though  injudicious  and  dishonest  Projectors  often 
discredit  Art,  yet  the  most  useful  and  extraordinary  Inven- 
tions have  not,  at  first,  escap'd  the  Scorn  of  Ignorance;  as 
their  Authors,  rarely,  have  cracking  of  their  Heads,  or 
breaking  their  backs. 

231.  Undertake  no  Experiment,  in  Speculation,  that  ap- 
pears not  true  in  Art;  nor  then,  at  thine  own  Cost,  if  costly 
or  hazardous  in  making. 

232.  As  many  Hands  make  light  Work,  so  several  Purses 
make  cheap  Experiments. 

INDUSTRY 

233.  Industry,  is  certainly  very  commendable,  and  supplies 
the  want  of  Parts. 

234.  Patience  and  Diligence,  like  Faith,  remove  Moun- 
tains. 

235.  Never  give  out  while  there  is  Hope;  but  hope  not 
beyond  Reason,  for  that  shews  more  Desire  than  Judgment. 

236.  It  is  a  profitable  Wisdom  to  know  when  we  have 
done  enough:  Much  Time  and  Pains  are  spared,  in  not 
flattering  our  selves  against  Probabilities. 

TEMPORAL   HAPPINESS 

237.  Do  Good  with  what  thou  hast,  or  it  will  do  thee 
no  good. 

238^  Seek  not  to  be  Rich,  but  Happy.  The  one  lies  in 
Bags,  the  other  in  Content :  which  Wealth  can  never  give. 

239.  W-e  are  apt  to  call  things  by  wrong  Names*.  We  will 
have  Prosperity  to--  be  Happiness,  and  Adversity  to  be 
Misery;  though  that-  is^  the  School  of  Wisdom,  and  often- 
times the  way  to  Eternal  Happiness. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  361 

240.  If  thou  wouldest  be  Happy,  bring  thy  Mind  to  thy 
Condition,  and  have  an  Indifferency  for  more  than  what  is 
sufficient. 

241.  Have  but  little  to  do,  and  do  it  thy  self:  And  do  to 
others  as  thou  wouldest  have  them  do  to  thee:  So,  thou 
canst  not  fail  of  Temporal  Felicity. 

242.  The  generality  are  the  worse  for  their  Plenty:  The 
Voluptuous  consumes  it,  the  Miser  hides  it:  'T  is  the  good 
Man  that  uses  it,  and  to  good  Purposes.  But  such  are  hardly 
found  among  the  Prosperous. 

243.  Be  rather  Bountiful,  than  Expensive. 

244.  Neither  make  nor  go  to  Feasts,  but  let  the  laborious 
Poor  bless  thee  at  Home  in  their  Solitary  Cottages. 

245.  Never  voluntarily  want  what  thou  hast  in  Possession; 
nor  so  spend  it  as  to  involve  thyself  in  want  unavoidable. 

246.  Be  not  tempted  to  presume  by  Success:  For  many 
that  have  got  largely,  have  lost  all,  by  coveting  to  get  more. 

247.  To  hazard  much  to  get  much,  has  more  of  Avarice 
than  Wisdom. 

248.  It  is  great  Prudence  both  to  Bound  and  Use  Pros- 
perity. 

249.  Too  few  know  when  they  have  Enough;  and  fewer 
know  how  to  employ  it. 

250.  It  is  equally  adviseable  not  to  part  lightly  with  what 
is  hardly  gotten,  and  not  to  shut  up  closely  what  flows  in 
freely. 

251.  Act  not  the  Shark  upon  thy  Neighbors;  nor  take  Ad- 
vantage of  the  Ignorance,  Prodigality  or  Necessity  of  any 
one :  For  that  is  next  door  to  Fraud,  and,  at  best,  makes  but 
an  Unblest  Gain. 

252.  It  is  oftentimes  the  Judgment  of  God  upon  Greedy 
Rich  Men,  that  he  suffers  them  to  push  on  their  Desires  of 
Wealth  to  the  Excess  of  over-reaching,  grinding  or  op- 
pression, which  poisons  all  the  rest  they  have  gotten:  So 
that  it  commonly  runs  away  as  fast,  and  by  as  bad  ways  as 
it  was  heap'd  up  together. 

RESPECT 

253.  Never  esteem  any  Man,  or  thy  self,  the  more  for 
Money ;  nor  think  the  meaner  of  thy  self  or  another  for  want 


362  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

of  it:  Verttie  being  the  just  Reason  of  respecting,  and  the 

want  of  it,  of  slighting  any  one. 
254,  A  Man  like  a  Watch,  is  to  be  valued  for  his  Goings^ 
255?  He  that  prefers  him  upon  other  accounts,  bows  to  an 

Idol. 

256.  Unless  Virtue  guide  us,  our  Choice  must  be  wrong. 

257.  An  able  bad  Man,  is  an  ill  Instrument,  and  to  be 
shunned  as  the  Plague. 

258.  Be  not  deceived  with  the  first  appearances  of  things, 
but  give  thy  self  Time  to  be  in  the  right. 

259.  Show,  is  not  Substance :  Realities  Govern  Wise  Men. 

260.  Have  a  Care  therefore  where  there  is  more  Sail  than 
Ballast. 

HAZARD 

261.  In  all  Business  it  is  best  to  put  nothing  to  hazard: 
But  where  it  is  unavoidable,  be  not  rash,  hut  firm  and 
resign'd. 

262.  We  should  not  be  troubled  for  what  we  cannot  help : 
But  if  it  was  our  Fault,  let  it  be  so  no  more.  Amendment 
is  Repentance,  if  not  Reparation. 

263.  As  a  Desperate  Game  needs  an  able  Gamester,  so 
Consideration  often  would  prevent,  what  the  best  skill  in  the 
World  Cannot  Recover. 

264.  Where  the  Probability  of  Advantage  exceeds  not  that 
of  Loss,  Wisdom  never  Adventures. 

265.  To  Shoot  well  Flying  is  well;  but  to  Chose  it,  has 
more  of  Vanity  than  Judgment. 

266.  To  be  Dextrous  in  Danger  is  a  Virtue;  but  to  Court 
Danger  to  show  it,  is  Weakness. 

DETRACTION 

267.  Have  a  care  of  that  base  Evil  Detraction.  It  is  the 
Fruit  of  Envy,  as  that  is  of  Pride;  the  immediate  Offspring 
of  the  Devil:  Who,  of  an  Angel,  a  Lucifer,  a  Son  of  the 
Morning,  made  himself  a  Serpent,  a  Devil,  a  Beelzebub,  and 
all  that  is  obnoxious  to  the  Eternal  Goodness. 

268.  Vertue  is  not  secure  against  Envy.  Men  will  Lessen 
what  they  won't  Imitate. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  363 

269.  Dislike  what  deserves  it,  but  never  Hate :  For  that  is 
of  the  Nature  of  Malice;  which  is  almost  ever  to  Persona, 
not  Things,  and  is  one  of  the  blad^est  Qualities  Sin  begets 
in  the  Soul. 

MODERATION 

270.  It  were  an  happy  Day  if  Men  could  bound  and 
qualifie  their  Resentments  with  Charity  to  the  Offender: 
For  then  our  Anger  would  be  without  Sin,  and  better 
convict  and  edifie  the  Guilty;  which  alone  can  make  it 
lawful. 

271.  Not  to  be  provok'd  is  best:  But  if  mov'd,  never  cor- 
rect till  the  Fume  is  spent;  For  every  Stroke  our  Fury 
strikes,  is  sure  to  hit  our  selves  at  last. 

272.  If  we  did  but  observe  the  Allowances  our  Reason 
makes  upon  Reflection,  when  our  Passion  is  over,  we  could 
not  want  a  Rule  how  to  behave  our  selves  again  in  the  like 
Occasions. 

273.  We  are  more  prone  to  Complain  than  Redress,  and 
to  Censure  than  Excuse. 

274.  It  is  next  to  unpardonable,  that  we  can  so  often  Blame 
what  we  will  not  once  mend.  It  shews,  we  know,  but  will 
not  do  our  Master's  Will. 

275.  They  that  censure,  should  Practice:  Or  else  let  them 
have  the  first  stone,  and  the  last  too. 


TRICK 

276.  Nothing  needs  a  Trick  but  a  Trick ;  Sincerity  loathes 
Dne. 

277.  We  must  take  care  to  do  Right  Things  Rightly :  For 
a  just  Sentence  may  be  unjustly  executed 

278.  Circumstances  give  great  Light  to  true  judgment,  if 
well  weigh'd. 

PASSION 

279.  Passion  is  a  sort  of  Fever  m  the  Mind,  which  ever 
leaves  us  weaker  than  it  found  us. 

280.  But  being,  intermitting   to  be   sure,   't  is  curable 
with  care. 


364  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

281.  It  more  than  any  thing  deprives  us  of  the  use  of 
our  Judgment ;  for  it  raises  a  Dust  very  hard  to  see  through. 

282.  Like  Wine,  whose  Lee^  fly  by  being  jogg'd,  it  is  too 
muddy  to  Drinks 

283.  It  may  not  unfitly  be  termed,  the  Mob  of  the  Man, 
that  com^mits  a  Riot  upon  his  Reason. 

284.  I  have  sometirnes  thought,  that  a  Passionate  Man  is 
like  a  w^ak  Spring  that  cannot  stand  long  lock'd. 

285.  And  as  true,  that  those  things  are  unfit  for  use,  that 
can't  bear  small  Knocks,  without  breaking. 

286.  He  that  won't  hear  can't  Judge,  and  he  that  can't 
bear  Contradiction,  may,  with  all  his  Wit,  miss  the  Mark. 

2^y,  Objection  and  Debate  Sift  out  Truth,  which  needs 
Temper  as  well  as  Judgment. 

288.  But  above  all,  observe  it  in  Resentments,  for  their 
Passion  is  most  Extravagant. 

289.  Never  chide  for  Anger,  but  Instruction. 

290.  He  that  corrects  out  of  Passion,  raises  Revenge 
sooner  than  Repentance. 

291.  It  has  more  of  Wantonness  than  Wisdom,  and  re- 
sembles those  that  Eat  to  please  their  Pallate,  rather  than 
their  Appetite. 

292.  It  is  the  difference  between  a  Wise  and  a  Weak 
Man;  This  Judges  by  the  Lump,  that  by  Parts  and  their 
Connection. 

293.  The  Greeks  use  to  say,  all  Cases  are  governed  by 
their  Circumstances.  The  same  thing  may  be  well  and  ill 
as  they  change  or  vary  the  Matter. 

294.  A  Man's  Strength  is  shewn  by  his  Bearing.  Bonum 
Agere,  &  Male  Pati,  Regis  est^ 


PERSONAL   CAUTIONS 

295,  Reflect  without  Malice  but  never  widiowt  Need. 

296.  Despise  no  Body,  nor  no  Condition;  lest  it  come  to 
be  thine  own. 

29^.  Never  Rail  nor  Taunt.    The  one  is  Rude,  the  other 
Scornful,  and  both  Evil, 
2i^.  Be  not  provoked  by  Injuries,  to  commit  them. 

^  To  do  good  and  ill  to  endure  is  the  part  of  a  king. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  365 

299.  Upbraid  only  Ingratitude. 

300.  Haste  makes  Work  which  Catition  prevents. 

301.  Tempt  no  Man;  lest  thou  fall  for  it. 

302.  Have  a  care  of  presuming  upon  After-Games  :"*  For 
if  that  miss,  all  is  gone. 

303.  Opportunities  should  never  be  lost,  because  they  can 
hardly  be  regained. 

304.  It  is  well  to  cure,  but  better  to  prevent  a  Distemper. 
iThe  first  shows  more  Skill,  but  the  last  more  Wisdom. 

305.  Never  make  a  Tryal  of  Skill  in  difficult  or  hazardous 
Cases. 

306.  Refuse  not  to  be  informed:  For  that  shews  Pride  or 
^Stupidity. 

307.  Humility  and  Knowledge  in  poor  Cloaths,  excel 
Pride  and  Ignorance  in  costly  attire. 

308.  Neither  despise,  nor  oppose,  what  thou  dost  not 
understand. 

BALLANCE 

309.  We  must  not  be  concern'd  above  the  Value  of  the 
thing  that  engages  us;  nor  raised  above  Reason,  in  main- 
taining what  we  think  reasonable. 

310.  It  is  too  common  an  Error,  to  invert  the  Order  of 
Things;  by  making  an  End  of  that  which  is  a  Means,  and 
a  Means  of  that  which  is  an  End. 

311.  Religion  and  Government  escape  not  this  Mischief: 
The  first  is  too  often  made  a  Means  instead  of  an  End;  the 
other  an  End  instead  of  a  Means. 

312.  Thus  Men  seek  Wealth  rather  than  Subsistence;  and 
the  End  of  Cloaths  is  the  least  Reason  of  their  Use.  Nor  is 
the  satisfying  of  our  Appetite  our  End  in  Eating,  so  much 
as  the  pleasing  of  our  Pailate.  The  like  may  also  be  said 
of  Building,  Fin-niture,  &c.  where  the  Man  rules  not  the 
Beast,  and  Appetite  submits  not  to  Reason. 

313.  It  is  great  Wisdom  to  proportion  our  Esteem  to  the 
Nature  of  the  Thing:  For  as  that  way  things  will  not  be 
undervalued,  so  neither  will  they  engage  as  above  their 
intrinsick  worth. 

314.  If  we  suffer  little  Things  to  have  great  hold  upon  us, 
^'A  second  game  played  to  reverse  the  issue  of  the  first 


366  SOMK  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDB 

we   shall   be   as   much   transported   for   them,   as  if  the}^ 
deserv'd  it. 

315.  It  is  an  old  Proverb,  Maxima  hella  ex  levissimis 
causis:  The  greatest  Feuds  have  had  the  smallest  Beginnings. 

316.  No  matter  what  the  Subject  of  the  Dispute  be,  but 
what  place  we  give  it  in  our  Minds:  For  that  governs  our 
Concern  and  Resentment. 

317.  It  is  one  of  the  fatalest  Errors  of  our  Lives,  when  we 
spoil  a  good  Cause  by  an  ill  Management :  And  it  is  not  im- 
possible but  we  may  mean  well  in  an  ill  Business;  but  that 
will  not  defend  it. 

318.  If  we  are  but  sure  the  End  is  Right,  w^e  are  too  apt 
to  gallop  over  all  Bounds  to  compass  it;  not  considering 
that  lawful  Ends  may  be  very  unlawfully  attained. 

319.  Let  us  be  careful  to  take  just  ways  to  compass  just 
Things;  that  they  may  last  in  their  Benefits  to  us. 

320.  There  is  a  troublesome  Humor  some  Men  have,  that 
if  they  may  not  lead,  they  will  not  follow;  but  had  rather 
a  thing  were  never  done,  than  not  done  their  own  way,  tho' 
other  ways  very  desirable. 

321.  This  comes  of  an  over- fulness  of  our  selves;  and 
shows  we  are  more  concern'd  for  Praise,  than  the  Success 
of  what  we  think  a  good  Thing. 

POPULARITY 

322.  Affect  not  to  be  seen,  and  Men  will  less  see  thy 
Weakness. 

323.  They  that  shew  more  than  they  are,  raise  an  Ex- 
pectation they  cannot  answer;  and  so  lose  their  Credit,  as 
soon  as  they  are  found  out. 

324.  Avoid  Popularity.  It  has  many  Snares,  and  no  real 
Benefit  to  thy  self;  and  Uncertainty  to  others. 

PRIVACY 

325.  Remember  the  Proverb,  Bene  qui  latuiij  bene  vixii. 
They  are  happy  that  live  Retiredly. 

326.  If  this  be  true.  Princes  and  their  Grandees,  of  all 
Men,  are  the  unhappiest:  For  they  live  least  alone:  And 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDB  367 

they  that  must  be  enjoyed  by  every  Body,  can  never  enjoy 
themselves  as  they  should. 

327.  It  is  the  Advantage  little  Men  have  upon  them;  they 
can  be  Private,  and  have  leisure  for  Family  Comforts,  which 
are  the  greatest  worldly  Contents  Men  can  enjoy. 

328.  But  they  that  place  Pleasure  in  Greediness,  seek  it 
there:  And  we  see  Rule  is  as  much  the  Ambition  of  some 
Natures,  as  Privacy  is  the  Choice  of  others. 


GOVER^TMENT 

329.  Government  has  many  Shapes :  But 't  is  Sovereignty, 
tho'  not  Freedom,  in  all  of  them. 

330.  Rex  &  Tyrannus  are  very  different  Characters:  One 
Rules  his  People  by  Laws,  to  which  they  consent;  the  other 
by  his  absolute  Will  and  Power.  That  is  call'd  Freedom, 
This  Tyranny. 

331.  The  first  is  endangered  by  the  Ambition  of  the  Popu- 
lar, which  shakes  the  Constitution:  The  other  by  an  ill 
Administration,  which  hazards  the  Tyrant  and  his  Family, 

332.  It  is  great  Wisdom  in  Princes  of  both  sorts,  not  to 
strain  Points  too  high  with  their  People:  For  whether  the 
People  have  a  Right  to  oppose  them  or  not,  they  are  ever 
sure  to  attempt  it,  when  things  are  carried  too  far;  though 
the  Remedy  oftentimes  proves  worse  than  the  Disease. 

333.  Happy  that  King  who  is  great  by  Justice,  and  that 
People  who  are  free  by  Obedience. 

334.  Where  the  Ruler  is  Just,  he  may  be  strict;  else  it  is 
two  to  one  it  turns  upon  him:  And  tho'  he  should  prevail, 
he  can  be  no  Gainer,  where  his  People  are  the  Losers. 

335.  Princes  must  not  have  Passions  in  Government,  nor 
Resent  beyond  Interest  and  Religion. 

336.  Where  Examxple  keeps  pace  with  Authority,  Power 
hardly  fails  to  be  obey'd,  and  Magistrates  to  be  honor'd. 

337.  Let  the  People  thinlc  they  Govern  and  they  wiU  be 
Govern'd. 

338.  This  cannot  fail,  if  Those  they  Trust,  are  Trusted. 

339.  That  Prince  that  is  Just  to  them  in  great  things,  and 
Humors  them  sometimes  in  small  ones,  is  sare  to  ha\^  and 
keep  them  imm  aU  the  World. 


368  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

340.  For  the  People  is  the  Politick  Wife  of  the  Prince,  that 
may  be  better  managed  by  Wisdom,  than  ruled  by  Force. 

341.  But  where  the  Magistrate  is  partial  and  serves  ill 
turns,  he  loses  his  Authority  with  the  People;  and  gives  the 
Populace  opportunity  to  gratifie  their  Ambition:  And  to  lay 
a  Stumbling-block  for  his  People  to  fall. 

342.  It  is  true,  that  where  a  Subject  is  more  Popular  than 
the  Prince,  the  Prince  is  in  Danger:  But  it  is  as  true,  that 
it  is  his  own  Fault :  For  no  Body  has  the  like  Means,  Interest 
or  Reason,  to  be  popular  as  He. 

343.  It  is  an  unaccountable  thing,  that  some  Princes  in- 
cline rather  to  be  fear'd  than  lov'd;  when  they  see,  that 
Fear  does  not  oftener  secure  a  Prince  against  the  Dissatis- 
faction of  his  People,  than  Love  makes  a  Subject  too  many 
for  such  a  Prince. 

344.  Certainly  Service  upon  Inclination  is  like  to  go 
farther  than  Obedience  upon  Compulsion. 

345.  The  Romans  had  a  just  Sense  of  this,  when  they 
plac'd  Optimus  befo*^  Maximus,  to  their  most  Illustrious 
Captains  and  Cesars. 

346.  Besides,  Experience  tells  us.  That  Goodness  raises  a 
nobler  Passion  in  the  Soul,  and  gives  a  better  Sense  of 
Duty  than  Severity. 

347.  What  did  Pharaoh  get  by  increasing  the  Israelites 
Task?    Ruine  to  himself  in  the  End. 

348.  Kings,  chiefly  in  this,  should  imitate  God:  Their 
Mercy  should  be  above  all  their  Works. 

349.  The  Difference  between  the  Prince  and  the  Peasant, 
is  in  this  World :  But  a  Temper  ought  to  be  observ'd  by  him 
that  has  the  Advantage  here,  because  of  the  Judgment  in 
the  next. 

350.  The  End  of  every  thing  should  direct  the  Means: 
Now  that  of  ^  Government  being  the  Good  of  the  whole, 
nothing  less  should  be  the  Aim  of  the  Prince. 

351.  As  often  as  Rulers  endeavor  to  attain  just  Ends  by 
just  Mediums,  they  are  sure  of  a  quiet  and  easy  Government ; 
and  as  sure  of  Convulsions,  where  the  Nature  of  things  are 
violated,  and  their  Order  overrul'd. 

352.  It  is  certain,  Princes  ought  to  have  great  Allowances 
made  them  for  Faults  in  Government ;  since  they  see  by  other 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  369 

People's  Eyes,  and  hear  by  their  Ears.  But  Ministers  of 
State,  their  immediate  Confidents  and  Instruments,  have 
much  to  answer  for,  if  to  gratifie  private  Passions,  they  mis- 
guide the  Prince  to  do  publick  Injury. 

353.  Ministers  of  State  should  undertake  their  Posts  at 
their  Peril.  If  Princes  overrule  them,  let  them  shew  the 
Law,  and  humbly  resign:  If  Fear,  Gain  or  Flattery  prevail, 
let  them  answer  it  to  the  Law. 

354.  The  Prince  cannot  be  preserved,  but  where  the  Min- 
ister is  punishable:  For  People,  as  well  as  Princes,  will  not 
endure  Imperium  in  Imperio^ 

355.  If  Ministers  are  weak  or  ill  Men,  and  so  spoil  their 
Places,  it  is  the  Prince's  Fault  that  chose  them :  But  if  their 
Places  spoil  them,  it  is  their  own  Fault  to  be  made  worse 
by  them. 

356.  It  is  but  just  that  those  that  reign  by  their  Princes, 
should  suffer  for  their  Princes :  For  it  is  a  safe  and  neces- 
sary Maxim,  not  to  shift  Heads  in  Government,  while  the 
Hands  are  in  being  that  should  answer  for  them. 

357.  And  yet  it  were  intolerable  to  be  a  Minister  of  State, 
if  every  Body  may  be  Accuser  and  Judge. 

358.  Let  therefore  the  false  Accuser  no  more  escape  an 
exemplary  Punishment,  than  the  Guilty  Minister. 

359.  For  it  profanes  Government  to  have  the  Credit  of 
the  leading  Men  in  it,  subject  to  vulgar  Censure;  which  is 
often  ill  grounded. 

360.  The  Safety  of  a  Prince,  therefore  consists  in  a  well- 
chosen  Council:  And  that  only  can  be  said  to  be  so,  where 
the  Persons  that  compose  it  are  qualified  for  the  Business 
that  comes  before  them. 

361.  Who  would  send  to  a  Taylor  to  make  a  Lock,  or  to 
a  Smith  to  make  a  Suit  of  Cloaths  ? 

362.  Let  there  be  Merchants  for  Trade,  Seamen  for  the 
Admiralty,  Travellers  for  Foreign  Affairs,  some  of  the  Lead- 
ing Men  of  the  Country  for  Home-Business,  and  Common 
and  Civil  Lawyers  to  advise  of  Legality  and  Right:  Who 
should  always  keep  to  the  strict  Rules  of  Law. 

363.  Three  Things  contribute  much  to  ruin  Governments; 
Looseness,  Oppression  and  Envy. 

i^An  empire  within  an  empire. 


370  SOME  FRUITS   OF  SOLITUDE 

364.  Where  the  Reins  of  Government  are  too  slack,  there 
the  Manners  of  the  People  are  corrupted :  And  that  destroys 
Industry,  begets  Effeminacy,  and  provokes  Heaven  against  it. 

365.  Oppression  makes  a  Poor  Country,  and  a  Desperate 
People,  who  always  wait  an  Opportunity  to  change. 

366.  He  that  ruleth  over  Men,  must  be  just,  ruling  in  the 
Fear  of  God,  said  an  old  and  a  wise  King. 

367.  Envy  disturbs  and  distracts  Government,  clogs  the 
Wheels,  and  perplexes  the  Administration:  And  nothing 
contributes  more  to  the  Disorder,  than  a  partial  distribution 
of  Rewards,  and  Punishments  in  the  Sovereign. 

368.  As  it  is  not  reasonable  that  Men  should  be  compell'd 
to  serve;  so  those  that  have  Employments  should  not  be 
endured  to  leave  them  humorously. 

369.  V\^here  the  State  intends  a  Man  no  Affront,  he  should 
not  Affront  the  State. 

A   PRIVATE   LIFE 

370.  Private  Life  is  to  be  preferred;  the  Honor  and  Gain 
of  publick  Posts,  bearing  no  proportion  with  the  Comfort 
of  it    The  one  is  free  and  quiet,  the  other  servile  and  noisy. 

371.  It  was  a  great  Answer  of  the  Shunamite  Woman, 
I  dwell  among  my  own  People. 

372.  They  that  live  of  their  own,  neither  need,  nor  often 
list  to  wear  the  Livery  of  the  Publick. 

^y-^'  Their  Subsistance  is  not  during  Pleasure;  nor  have 
they  patrons  to  please  or  present. 

374.  If  they  are  not  advanced,  neither  can  they  be  dis- 
graced. And  as  they  know  not  the  Smiles  of  Majesty,  so 
tliey  feel  not  the  Frowns  of  Greatness;  or  the  Effects  of 
Envy. 

375.  If  they  want  the  Pleasures  of  a  Court,  they  also 
escape  the  Temptations  of  it. 

376.  Private  Men,  in  fine,  are  so  much  their  own,  that 
paying  common  DueSj  they  are  Sovereigns  of  all  the  rest 


A   PUBLICK   LIFE 

377.  Yet  the  Publick  must  and  will  be  served;  and  they 
that  do  it  well,  deserve  publick  Marks  of  Honor  and  Profit 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  371 

1  378.  To  do  so,  Men  must  have  publick  Minds,  as   well 

I  as  Salaries ;  or  they  will  serve  private  Ends  at  the  Publick 

'  Cost. 

379.  Governments  can  never  be  well  administered,  but 
where  those  entrusted  make  Conscience  of  well  discharging 
their  Place. 

QUALIFICATIONS 

380.  Five  Things  are  requisite  to  a  good  Officer;  Ability, 
Clean  Hands,  Dispatch,  Patience  and  Impartiality. 

CAPACITY 

381.  He  that  understands  not  his  Employment,  whatever 
else  he  knows,  must  be  unfit  for  it,  and  the  Publick  suffers 
by   his   Inexpertness. 

382.  They  that  are  able,  should  be  just  too;  or  the  Gov- 
ernment may  be  the  worse  for  their  Capacity. 

CLEAN   HANDS 

383.  Covetousness  in  such  Men  prompts  them  to  prosti- 
tute the  Publick  for  Gain. 

384.  The  taking  of  a  Bribe  or  Gratuity,  should  be  pun- 
ished with  as  severe  Penalties,  as  the  defrauding  of  the 
State. 

385.  Let  Men  have  sufficient  Salaries,  and  exceed  them 
at  their  Peril. 

386.  It  is  a  Dishonor  to  Government,  that  its  Officers 
should  live  of  Benevolence;  as  it  ought  to  be  Infamous 
for  Officers  to  dishonor  the  Publick,  by  being  tv/ice  paid 
for  the  same  Business. 

387.  But  to  be  paid,  and  not  to  do  Business,  is  rank 
Oppression. 

DISPATCH 

388.  Dispatch  is  a  great  and  good  Qttality  in  an  Officer; 
v/here  Duty,  not  Gain,  excites  it.  But  of  this,  too  many 
make  their  private  Market  and  Over-plus  to  their  Wages. 
Thus  the  Salary  is  for  doing,  and  the  Bribe,  for  dispatching 


372  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

the  Business :  As  if  Business  could  be  done  before  it  were 
dispatched:  Or  what  ought  to  be  done,  ought  not  to  be  dis- 
patch'd:  Or  they  were  to  be  paid  apart,  one  by  the  Gov- 
ernment, t'other  by  the  Party. 

389.  Dispatch  is  as  much  the  Duty  of  an  Officer,  as 
doing;  and  very  muth  the  Honor  of  the  Government  he 
serves. 

390.  Delays  have  been  more  injurious  than  direct 
Injustice. 

391.  They  too  often  starve  those  they  dare  not  deny. 

392.  The  very  Winner  is  made  a  Loser,  because  he  pays 
twice  for  his  own;  like  those  that  purchase  Estates  Mort- 
gaged before  to  the  full  Value. 

393.  Our  Law  says  well,  to  delay  Justice  is  Injustice. 

394.  Not  to  have  a  Right,  and  not  to  come  at  it,  differs 
Ijttle. 

395.  Refuse  or  Dispatch  is  the  Duty  and  Wisdom  of  a 
good  Officer. 

PATIENCE 

396.  Patience  is  a  Virtue  every  where;  but  it  shines  with 
great  Lustre  in  the  Men  of  Government. 

397.  Some  are  so  Proud  or  Testy,  they  won't  hear  what 
they  should  redress. 

398.  Others  so  weak,  they  sink  or  burst  under  the  weight 
of  their  Office,  though  they  can  lightly  run  away  with  the 
Salary  of  it. 

399.  Business  can  never  be  well  done,  that  is  not  well 
understood:  Which  cannot  be  without  Patience. 

400.  It  is  Cruelty  indeed  not  to  give  the  Unhappy  an 
Hearing,  whom  we  ought  to  help:  But  it  is  the  top  of 
Oppression  to  Browbeat  the  humble  and  modest  Miserable, 
when  they  seek  Relief. 

401.  Some,  it  is  true,  are  unreasonable  in  their  Desires 
and  Hopes:  But  then  we  should  inform,  not  rail  at  and 
reject  them. 

402.  It  is  therefore  as  great  an  Instance  of  Wisdom  as  a 
Man  in  Business  can  give,  to  be  Patient  under  the  Imperti- 
nencies  and  Contradictions  that  attend  it. 

403.  Method  goes  far  to  prevent  Trouble  in  Business:  For 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  373 

it  makes  the  Task  easy,  hinders  Confusion,  saves  abundance 
of  Time,  and  instructs  those  that  have  Business  depending, 
both  what  to  do  and  what  to  hope. 


IMPARTIALITY 

404.  Impartiality,  though  it  be  the-  last,  is  not  the  least  Part 
of  the  Character  of  a  good  Magistrate. 

405.  It  is  noted  as  a  Fault,  in  Holy  Writ,  even  to  regard 
the  Poor :  How  much  more  the  Rich  in  Judgment  ? 

406.  If  our  Compassions  miust  not  sway  us;  less  should 
our  Fears,  Profits  or  Prejudices. 

407.  Justice  is  justly  represented  Blind,  because  she  sees 
no  Difference  in  the  Parties  concerned. 

40^.  She  has  but  one  Scale  and  Weight,  for  Rich  and 
Poor,  Great  and  Small. 

409.  Her  Sentence  is  not  guided  by  the  Person,  but  the 
Cause. 

410.  The  Impartial  Judge  in  Judgment,  knows  nothing 
but  the  Law:  The  Prince  no  more  than  the  Peasant,  his 
Kindred  than  a  Stranger.  Nay,  his  Enemy  is  sure  to  be 
upon  equal  Terms  with  his  Friend,  when  he  is  upon  the 
Bench. 

411.  Impartiality  is  the  Life  of  Justice,  as  that  is  of 
Government. 

412.  Nor  is  it  only  a  Benefit  to  the  State,  for  private 
Families  cannot  subsist  comfortably  without  it. 

413.  Parents  that  are  partial,  are  ill  obeyed  by  their 
Children;  and  partial  Masters  not  better  served  by  their 
Servants. 

414.  Partiality  is  always  Indirect,  if  not  Dishonest :  For  it 
shews  a  Byass  where  Reason  would  have  none;  if  not  an 
Injury,  which  Justice  every  where  forbids. 

415.  As  it  makes  Favorites  witliout  Reason,  so  it  uses  no 
Reason  m  judging  of  Actions :  Confirming  the  Proverb,  The 
Crow  thitiks  her  own  Bird  the  fairest. 

416.  What  some  se«  to  be  no  Fault  in  one,  they  will  have 
Criminal  in  another. 

417.  Nay,  ho\y  ugly  do  our  own  Failings  look  to  us  in 
the  Persons  of  others,  which  yet  we  see  not  m  our  selves. 


374  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

418.  And  but  too  common  it  is  for  some  People,  not  te 
know  their  own  Maxims  and  Principles  in  the  Mouths  of 
other  Men,  when  they  give  occasion  to  use  them. 

419.  Partiality  corrupts  our  Judgment  of  Persons  and 
Things,  of  our  selves  and  others. 

420.  It  contributes  more  than  any  thing  to  Factions  in 
Government,  and  Fewds  in  Families. 

421.  It  is  prodigal  Passion,  that  seldom  returns  'till  it  is 
Hunger-bit,  and  Disappointments  bring  it  within  bounds. 

422.  And  yet  we  may  be  indifferent,  to  a  Fault. 


INDIFFERENCY 

423.  Indifference  is  good  in  Judgment,  but  bad  in  Relation, 
and  stark  nought  in  Religion. 

424.  And  even  in  Judgment,  our  Indifferency  must  be  to 
the  Persons,  not  Causes :  For  one,  to  be  sure,  is  right. 


NEUTRALITY 

425.  Neutrality  is  something  else  than  Indifferency;  and 
yet  of  kin  to  it  too. 

426.  A  Judge  ought  to  be  Indifferent,  and  yet  he  cannot 
be  said  to  be  Neutral. 

427.  The  one  being  to  be  Even  in  Judgment,  and  the  other 
not  to  meddle  at  all. 

428.  And  where  it  is  Lawful,  to  be  sure,  it  is  best  to  be 
Neutral. 

429.  He  that  espouses  Parties,  can  hardly  divorce  himself 
from  their  Fate;  and  more  fall  with  their  Party  than  rise 
with  it. 

430.  A  wise  Neuter  joins  with  neither;  but  uses  both,  as 
his  honest  Interest  leads  him. 

431.  A  Neuter  only  has  room  to  be  a  Peace-maker:  For 
being  of  neither  side,  he  has  the  Means  of  mediating  a 
Reconciliation  of  both. 

A   PARTY 

432.  And  yet,  where  Right  or  Religion  gives  a  Call,  a 
Neuter  must  be  a  Coward  or  an  Hypocrite. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  375 

433.  In  such  Cases  we  should  never  be  backward :  nor  yet 
mistaken. 

434.  When  our  Right  or  ReHgion  is  in  question,  then  is 
the  fittest  time  to  assert  it. 

435.  Nor  must  we  always  be  Neutral  where  our  Neigh- 
bors are  concerned :  For  tho'  Medling  is  a  Fault,  Helping  is 
a  Duty. 

436.  We  have  a  Call  to  do  good,  as  often  as  we  have  the 
Power  and  Occasion. 

437.  If  Heathens  could  say.  We  are  not  born  for  our 
selves ;  surely  Christians  should  practise  it. 

438.  They  are  taught  so  by  his  Example,  as  well  as 
Doctrine,  from  whom  th^y  have  borrowed  their  Name. 

OSTENTATION, 

439.  Do  what  good  thou  canst  unknown ;  and  be  not  vain 
of  what  ought  rather  to  be  felt,  than  seen. 

440.  The  Humble,  in  the  Parable  of  the  Day  of  Judg- 
ment, forgot  their  good  Works;  Lord,  when  did  we  do  so 
and  so? 

441.  He  that  does  Good,  for  Good's  sake,  seeks  neither 
Praise  nor  Reward;  tho'  sure  of  both  at  last. 


COMPLEAT  VIRTUE 

442.  Content  not  thy  self  that  thou  art  Virtuous  in  the 
general :  For  one  Link  being  wanting,  the  Chain  is  defective. 

443.  Perhaps  thou  art  rather  Innocent  than  Virtuous,  and 
owest  more  to  thy  Constitution,  than  thy  Religion. 

444.  Innocent,  is  not  to  be  Guilty :  But  Virtuous  is  to  over- 
come our  evil  Inclinations. 

445.  If  thou  hast  not  conquered  thy  self  in  that  which  is 
thy  own  particular  Weakness,  thou  hast  no  Title  to  Virtue, 
tho*  thou  art  free  of  other  Men's. 

446.  For  a  Covetous  Man  to  inveigh  against  Prodigality, 
an  Atheist  against  Idolatry,  a  Tyrant  against  Rebellion,  or 
a  Lyer  against  Forgery,  and  a  Drunkard  against  Intemper- 
ance, is  for  the  Pot  to  call  the  Kettle  black. 

447.  vSuch  Reproof  would  have  but  little  Success;  because 
It  would  carry  but  Httle  Authority  with  it. 


376  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

448.  If  thou  wouldest  conquer  thy  Weakness,  thou  must 
never  gratify  it. 

449.  No  Man  is  compelled  to  Evil ;  his  Consent  only  makes 
it  his. 

450.  'T  is  no  Sin  to  be  tempted,  but  to  be  overcome. 

451.  What  Man  in  his  right  Mind,  would  conspire  his  own 
hurt?  Men  are  beside  themselves,  when  they  transgress 
their  Convictions. 

452.  If  thou  would'st  not  Sin,  don't  Desire;  and  if  thou 
would'st  not  Lust,  don't  Embrace  the  Temptation:  No,  not 
look  at  it,  nor  think  of  it. 

453.  Thou  would'st  take  much  Pains  to  save  thy  Body: 
Take  some,  prithee,  to  save  thy  Soul. 

RELIGION 

454.  Religion  is  the  Fear  of  God,  and  its  Demonstration 
on  good  Works ;  and  Faith  is  the  Root  of  both :  For  without 
Faith  we  cannot  please  God,  nor  can  we  fear  what  we  do 
not  believe. 

455.  The  Devils  also  believe  and  know  abundance :  But  in 
this  is  the  Difference,  their  Faith  works  not  by  Love,  nor 
their  Knowledge  by  Obedience ;  and  therefore  they  are  never 
the  better  for  them.  And  if  ours  be  such,  we  shall  be  of 
their  Church,  not  of  Christ's:  For  as  the  Head  is,  so  must 
the  Body  be. 

456.  He  was  Holy,  Humble,  Harmless,  Meek,  Merciful, 
&c.  when  among  us ;  to  teach  us  what  we  should  be,  when  he 
was  gone.  And  yet  he  is  among  us  still,  and  in  us  too,  a 
living  and  perpetual  Preacher  of  the  same  Grace,  by  his 
Spirit  in  our  Consciences. 

457.  A  Minister  of  the  Gospel  ought  to  be  one  of  Christ's 
making,  if  he  would  pass  for  one  of  Christ's  Ministers. 

458.  And  if  he  be  one  of  his  making,  he  Knows  and  Does 
as  well  as  Believes. 

459.  That  Minister  whose  Life  is  not  the  Model  of  his 
Doctrine,  is  a  Babkr  rather  than  a  Preacher ;  a  Qiiack  rather 
than  a  Phy^cian  of  Value. 

460.  Of  old  Time  they  were  made  Mrnkters  by  the  Holy 
Gho-st:  And  the  more  that  is  an  ii^alient  uow,  thee  fitter 
they  are  for  that  Work. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  377 

461.  Running  Streams  are  not  so  apt  to  corrupt;  nor 
Itinerant,  as  settled  Preachers:  But  they  are  not  to  run  be- 
fore they  are  sent. 

462.  As  they  freely  receive  from  Christ,  so  they  give. 

463.  They  will  not  make  that  a  Trade,  which  they  know 
ought  not,  in  Conscience,  to  be  one. 

464.  Yet  there  is  no  fear  of  their  Living  that  design  not 
to  live  by  it. 

465.  The  humble  and  true  Teacher  meets  with  more  than 
he  expects. 

466.  He  accounts  Content  with  Godliness  great  Gain,  and 
therefore  seeks  not  to  make  a  Gain  of  Godliness. 

467.  As  the  Ministers  of  Christ  are  made  by  him,  and  are 
like  him,  so  they  beget  People  into  the  same  Likeness. 

468.  To  be  like  Christ  then,  is  to  be  a  Christian.  And 
Regeneration  is  the  only  way  to  the  Kingdom  of  God,  which 
we  pray  for. 

469.  Let  us  to  Day,  therefore,  hear  his  Voice,  and  not 
harden  our  Hearts;  who  speaks  to  us  many  ways.  In  the 
Scriptures,  in  our  Hearts,  by  his  Servants  and  his  Provi- 
dences :  And  the  Sum  of  all  is  Holiness  and  Charity. 

470.  St.  James  gives  a  short  Draught  of  this  Matter,  but 
very  full  and  reaching.  Pure  Religion  and  undefiled  before 
God  the  Father,  is  this,  to  visit  the  Fatherless  and  the 
Widows  in  their  Affliction,  and  to  keep  our  selves  unspotted 
from  the  World.  Which  is  compriz'd  in  these  Two  Words, 
Charity  and  Piety. 

471.  They  that  truly  make  these  their  Aim,  will  find  them 
their  Attainment;  and  with  them,  the  Peace  that  follows  so 
excellent  a  Condition. 

472.  Amuse  not  thy  self  therefore  with  the  numerous 
Opinions  of  the  World,  nor  value  thy  self  upon  verbal 
Orthodoxy,  Philosophy,  or  thy  Skill  in  Tongues,  or  Knowl- 
edge of  the  Fathers :  (too  much  the  Business  and  Vanity  of 
the  World).  But  in  this  rejoyce.  That  thou  knowest  God, 
that  is  the  Lord,  who  exerciseth  loving  Kindness,  and  Judg- 
ment, and  Righteousness  in  the  Earth. 

473.  Publick  Worship  is  very  commendable,  if  well  per- 
formed. We  owe  it  to  God  and  good  Example.  But  we 
must  know,  that  God  is  not  tyed  to  Time  or  Place,  who  is 


378  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

every  where  at  the  same  Time:  And  this  we  shall  know,  as 
far  as  we  are  capable,  if  where  ever  we  are,  our  Desires  are 
to  be  with  him. 

474.  Serving  God,  People  generally  confine  to  the  Acts  of 
Pubiick  and  Private  Wofship:  And  those,  the  more  zealous 
do  oftener  repeat,  in  hopes  of  Acceptance. 

475.  But  if  we  consider  that  God  is  an  Infinite  Spirit,  and, 
as  such,  every  where;  and  that  our  Saviour  has  taught  us, 
That  he  will  be  worshipped  in  Spirit  and  in  Truth ;  we  shall 
see  the  shortness  of  such  a  Notion. 

476.  For  serving  God  concerns  the  Frame  of  our  Spirits, 
in  the  whole  Course  of  our  Lives;  in  every  Occasion  we 
ihave,  in  which  we  may  shew  our  Love  to  his  Law. 

477.  For  as  Men  in  Battle  are  continually  in  the  way  of 
shot,  so  we,  in  this  World,  are  ever  within  the  Reach  of 
Temptation.  And  herein  do  we  serve  God,  if  we  avoid  what 
we  are  forbid,  as  well  as  do  what  he  commands. 

478.  God  is  better  served  in  resisting  a  Temptation  to  Evil, 
than  in  many  formal  Prayers. 

479.  This  is  but  Twice  or  Thrice  a  Day;  but  That 
every  Hour  and  Moment  of  the  Day.  So  much  more  is 
our  continual  Watch,  than  our  Evening  and  Morning 
Devotion. 

480.  Wouldst  thou  then  serve  God?  Do  not  that  alone, 
which  thou  wouldest  not  that  another  should  see  thee  do. 

481.  Don't  take  God's  Name  in  vain,  or  disobey  thy  Par- 
ents, or  wrong  thy  Neighbor,  or  commit  Adultery  even  in 
thine  Heart. 

482.  Neither  be  vain.  Lascivious,  Proud,  Drunken,  Re- 
vengeful or  Angry:  Nor  Lye,  Detract,  Backbite,  Overreach, 
Oppress,  Deceive  or  Betray:  But  watch  vigorously  against 
all  Temptations  to  these  Things;  as  knowing  that  God  is 
present,  the  Overseer  of  all  thy  Ways  and  most  inward 
Thoughts,  and  the  Avenger  of  his  own  Law  upon  the  Dis- 
obedient, and  thou  wilt  acceptably  serve  God. 

483.  is  it  not  reason,  if  we  expect  the  Acknowledgments 
of  those  to  whom  we  are  bountiful,  that  we  should  rever- 
ently pay  ours  to  God,  our  most  magnificent  and  constant 
Benefactor  ? 

484.  The  World  represents  a  Rare  and  Sumptuous  Palac% 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  379 

Mankind  the  great  Family  in  it,  and  God  the  mighty  Lord 
and  Master  of  it. 

485.  We  are  all  sensible  what  a  stately  Seat  it  is:  The 
Heavens  adorned  with  so  many  glorious  Luminaries;  and 
the  Earth  with  Groves,  Plains,  Valleys,  Hills,  Fountains, 
Ponds,  Lakes  and  Rivers;  and  Variety  of  Fruits,  and  Crea- 
tures for  Food,  Pleasure  and  Profit.  In  short,  how  Noble 
an  House  he  keeps,  and  the  Plenty  and  Variety  and  Ex- 
cellency of  his  Table;  his  Orders,  Seasons  and  Suitableness 
of  every  Time  and  Thing.  But  we  must  be  as  sensible,  or 
at  least  ought  to  be,  what  Careless  and  Idle  Servants  we 
are,  and  how  short  and  disproportionable  our  Behavior  is  to 
his  Bounty  and  Goodness :  How  long  he  bears,  and  often  he 
reprieves  and  forgives  us :  Who,  notwithstanding  our  Breach 
of  Promises,  and  repeated  Neglects,  has  not  yet  been  pro- 
vok'd  to  break  up  House,  and  send  us  to  shift  for  our  selves. 
Should  not  this  great  Goodness  raise  a  due  Sense  in  us  of  our 
Undutifulness,  and  a  Resolution  to  alter  our  Course  and 
mend  our  Manners;  that  we  may  be  for  the  future  more 
worthy  Communicants  at  our  Master's  good  and  great 
Table?  Especially  since  it  is  not  more  certain  that  we  de- 
serve his  Displeasure  than  that  we  should  feel  it,  if  we 
continue  to  be  unprofitable  Servants. 

486.  But  tho'  God  has  replenisht  this  World  with  abund- 
ance of  good  Things  for  Man's  Life  and  Comfort,  yet  they 
are  all  but  Imperfect  Goods.  He  only  is  the  Perfect  Good 
to  whom  they  point.  But  alas!  Men  cannot  see  him  for 
them;  tho'  they  should  always  see  him  In  them. 

487.  I  have  often  wondered  at  the  unaccountableness  of 
Man  in  this,  among  other  things ;  that  tho'  he  loves  Changes 
so  well,  he  should  care  so  little  to  hear  or  think  of  his  last, 
great,  and  best  Change  too,  if  he  pleases. 

488.  Being,  as  to  our  Bodies,  composed  of  changeable  Ele- 
ments, we  with  the  World,  are  made  up  of,  and  subsist  hy 
Revolution :  But  our  Souls  being  of  another  and  nobler  Na- 
ture, we  should  seek  our  Rest  in  a  more  induring  Habitation. 

489.  The  truest  end  of  Life,  is,  to  know  the  Life  that 
never  ends. 

490.  He  that  makes  this  his  Care,  will  find  it  his  Crowa 
at  last 


380  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

491.  Life  else,  were  a  Misery  rather  than  a  Pleasure,  a 
Judgment,  not  a  Blessing. 

492.  For  to  Know,  Regret  and  Resent;  to  Desire,  Hope 
and  Fear,  more  than  a  Beast,  and  not  live  beyond  him,  is  to 
make  a  Man  less  than  a  Beast. 

493.  It  is  the  Amends  of  a  short  and  troublesome  Life, 
that  Doing  well,  and  Suffering  ill.  Entitles  Man  to  One 
Longer  and  Better. 

494.  This  ever  raises  the  Good  Man's  Hope,  and  gives 
him  Tastes  beyond  the  other  World. 

495.  As  't  is  his  Aim,  so  none  else  can  hit  the  Mark. 

496.  Many  make  it  their  Speculation,  but  't  is  the  Good 
Man's  Practice. 

497.  His  Work  keeps  Pace  with  his  Life,  and  so  leaves 
nothing  to  be  done  when  he  Dies. 

498.  And  he  that  lives  to  live  ever,  never  fears  dying. 

499.  Nor  can  the  Means  be  terrible  to  him  that  heartily 
believes  the  End. 

500.  For  tho'  Death  be  a  Dark  Passage,  it  leads  to  Im- 
mortality, and  that  's  Recompence  enough  for  Suffering 
of  it. 

501.  And  yet  Faith  Lights  us,  even  through  the  Grave, 
being  the  Evidence  of  Things  not  seen. 

502.  And  this  is  the  Comfort  of  the  Good,  that  the  Grave 
cannot  hold  them,  and  that  they  live  as  soon  as  they  die. 

503.  For  Death  is  no  more  than  a  Turning  of  us  over 
from  Time  to  Eternity. 

504.  Nor  can  there  be  a  Revolution  without  it;  for  it 
supposes  the  Dissolution  of  one  form,  in  order  to  the  Suc- 
cession of  another, 

505.  Death  then,  being  the  Way  and  Condition  of  Life, 
we  cannot  love  to  live,  if  we  cannot  bear  to  die. 

506.  Let  us  then  not  cozen  our  selves  with  the  Shells  and 
Husks  of  things;  nor  prefer  Form  to  Power,  nor  Shadows 
to  Substance :  Pictures  of  Bread  will  not  satisfie  Hunger,  nor 
those  of  Devotion  please  God. 

507.  This  World  is  a  Form;  our  Bodies  are  Forms;  and 
no  visible  Acts  of  Devotion  can  be  without  Fornis.  But  yet 
the  less  Forjn  in  Religion  the  better,  since  God  is  a  Spirit: 
(For  the  more  mental  our  Worship,  the  more  adequate  to  the 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  381 

Natts^e  of  God;  the  more  silent,  the  more  suitable  to  the 
Language  of  a  Spirit. 

508-  Words  are  for  others,  not  for  our  selves:  Nor 
for  God,  who  hears  not  as  Bodies  do;  but  as  Spirits 
should. 

509.  If  we  would  know  this  Dialect;  we  must  learn  of 
the  Divine  Principle  in  us.  As  we  hear  the  Dictates  of  that, 
so  God  hears  us. 

510.  There  we  may  see  him  too  in  all  his  Attributes ;  Tho' 
but  in  little,  yet  as  much  as  we  can  apprehend  or  bear:  for 
as  he  is  in  himself,  he  is  incomprehensible,  and  dwelleth  in 
that  Light  which  no  Eye  can  approach.  But  in  his  Image 
we  may  behold  his  Glory;  enough  to  exalt  our  Apprehen- 
sions of  God,  and  to  instruct  us  in  that  Worship  which 
pleaseth  him. 

511.  Men  may  Tire  themselves  in  a  Labyrinth  of  Search, 
and  talk  of  God:  But  if  we  would  know  him  indeed,  it 
must  be  from  the  Impressions  we  jreceive  of  him ;  and  the 
softer  our  Hearts  are,  the  deeper  and  livelier  those  will  be 
upon  us. 

512.  If  he  has  made  us  sensible  of  his  Justice,  by  his  Re- 
proof ;  of  his  Patience,  by  his  Forbearance ;  of  his  Mercy,  by 
his  Forgiveness ;  of  his  Holiness,  by  the  Sanctification  of  our 
Hearts  through  his  Spirit;  we  have  a  grounded  Knowledge 
of  God.  This  is  Experience,  that  Speculation;  This  En- 
joyment, that  Report.  In  short,  this  is  undeniable  Evidence, 
with  the  realities  of  Religion,  and  will  stand  all  Winds  and 
Weathers. 

513.  As  our  Faith,  so  our  Devotion  should  be  lively.  Cold 
Meat  won't  serve  at  those  Repasts. 

514.  It  's  a  Coal  from  God's  Altar  must  kindle  our  Fire: 
And  without  Fire,  true  Fire,  no  acceptable  Sacrifice. 

515.  Open  thou  my  Lips,  and  then,  said  the  Royal  Prophet, 
My  Mouth  shall  praise  God.    But  not  'till  then. 

516.  The  Preparation  of  the  Heart,  as  well  as  Answer  of 
the  Tongue,  is  of  the  Lord:  And  to  have  it,  our  Prayers 
must  be  powerful,  and  our  Worship  grateful. 

517.  Let  us  chuse,  therefore,  to  commune  where  there  is 
the  warmest  Sense  of  Religion;  where  Devotion  exceeds 
Formality,  and  Practice  most  corresponds  with  Profession; 


382  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

and  where  there  is  at  least  as  much  Charity  as  Zeal:  For 
where  this  Society  is  to  be  found,  there  shall  we  find  the 
Church  of  God. 

518.  As  Good,  so  111  Men  are  all  of  a  Church;  and  every 
Body  knows  who  must  be  Head  of  it. 

519.  The  Humble,  Meek,  Merciful,  Just,  Pious  and  Devout 
Souls,  are  everywhere  of  one  Religion;  and  when  Death 
has  taken  off  the  Mask,  they  will  know  one  another,  tho'  the 
divers  Liveries  they  wear  here  make  them  Strangers. 

520.  Great  Allowances  are  to  be  made  of  Education,  and 
personal  Weaknesses :  But  't  is  a  Rule  with  me,  that  Man  is 
truly  Religious,  that  loves  the  Persuasion  he  is  of,  for  the 
Piety  rather  than  Ceremony  of  it. 

521.  They  that  have  one  End,  can  hardly  disagree  when 
they  meet.  At  least  their  concern  is  in  the  Greater,  mod- 
erates the  value  and  difference  about  the  lesser  things. 

522.  It  is  a  sad  Reflection,  that  many  Men  hardly  have 
any  Religion  at  all ;  and  most  Men  have  none  of  their  own : 
For  that  which  is  the  Religion  of  their  Education,  and  not 
of  their  Judgment,  is  the  ReHgion  of  Another,  and  not 
Theirs. 

523.  To  have  Religion  upon  Authority,  and  not  upon  Con- 
viction, is  like  a  Finger  Watch,  to  be  set  forwards  or  back- 
wards, as  he  pleases  that  has  it  in  keeping. 

524.  It  is  a  Preposterous  thing,  that  Men  can  venture  their 
Souls  where  they  will  not  venture  their  Money:  For  they 
will  take  their  Religion  upon  trust,  but  not  trust  a  Synod 
about  the  Goodness  of  Half  a  Crown, 

525.  They  will  follow  their  own  Judgment  when  their 
Money  is  concerned,  whatever  they  do  for  their  Souls. 

526.  But  to  be  sure,  that  Religion  cannot  be  right,  that  a 
Man  is  the  worse  for  having. 

527.  No  Religion  is  better  than  an  Unnatural  One. 

528.  Grace  perfects,  but  never  sours  or  spoils  Nature. 

529.  To  be  Unnatural  in  Defence  of  Grace,  is  a  Contra- 
diction. 

530.  Hardly  any  thing  looks  worse,  than  to  defend  Re- 
ligion by  ways  that  shew  it  has  no  Credit  with  us. 

531.  A  Devout  Man  is  one  thing,  a  Stickler  is  quite 
another. 


SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  383 

532.  "When  our  Minds  exceed  their  just  Bounds,  we  must 
needs  discredit  what  we  would  recommend. 

533.  To   be   Furious   in   Religion,  is   to   be  Irreligiously 
Religious. 

534.  If  he  that  is  without  Bowels,  is  not  a  Man;  How 
then  can  he  be  a  Christian  ? 

535.  It  were  better  to  be  of  no  Church,  than  to  be  bitter 
for  any. 

536.  Bitterness  comes  very  near  to  Enmity,  and  that  is 
Beelzebub ;  because  the  Perfection  of  Wickedness. 

537.  A  good  End  cannot  sanctifie  evil  Means;  nor  must 
we  ever  do  Evil,  that  Good  may  come  of  it. 

538.  Some  Folks  think  they  may  Scold,  Rail,  Hate,  Rob 
and  Kill  too ;  so  it  be  but  for  God's  sake. 

539.  But  nothing  in  us  unlike  him,  can  please  him. 

540.  It  is  as  great  Presumption  to  send  our  Passions 
upon  God's  Errands,  as  it  is  to  palliate  them  with  God's 
Name. 

541.  Zeal  dropped  in  Charity,  is  good,  without  it  good  for 
•nothing:  For  it  devours  all  it  comes  near. 

542.  They  must  first  judge  themselves,  that  presume  to 
censure  others:  And  such  will  not  be  apt  to  overshoot  the 
Mark. 

543.  We  are  too  ready  to  retaliate,  rather  than  forgive, 
or  gain  by  Love  and  Information. 

544.  And  yet  we  could  hurt  no  Man  that  we  believe 
loves  us. 

545.  Let  us  then  try  what  Love  will  do:  For  if  Men  did 
once  see  we  Love  them,  we  should  soon  find  they  would  not 
harm  us. 

546.  Force  may  subdue,  but  Love  gains :  And  he  that  for- 
gives first,  wins  the  Lawrel. 

547.  If  I  am  even  with  my  Enemy,  the  Debt  is  paid;  but 
if  I  forgive  it,  I  oblige  him  for  ever. 

548.  Love  is  the  hardest  Lesson  in  Christianity;  but,  for 
that  reason,  it  should  be  most  our  care  to  learn  it.  DifUcilia 
qucB  Pulchra^ 

549.  It  is  a  severe  Rebuke  upon  us,  that  God  makes  us  so 
many  Allowances,  and  we  make  so  few  to  our  Neighbor :  As 

12  Those  things  are  difficult  which  are  beautiful. 


384  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

if  Charity  had  nothing  to  do  with  Religion;  Or  Love  with 
Faith,  that  ought  to  work  by  it. 

550.  I  find  all  sorts  of  People  agree,  whatsoever  were  their 
Animosities,  when  humbled  by  the  Approaches  of  Death: 
Then  they  forgive,  then  they  pray  for,  and  love  one  another : 
Which  shews  us,  that  it  is  not  our  Reason,  but  our  Passion, 
that  makes  and  holds  up  the  Feuds  that  reign  among  men 
in  their  Health  and  Fulness.  They,  therefore,  that  live  near- 
est to  that  which  they  should  die,  must  certainly  live  best. 

551.  Did  we  believe  a  final  Reckoning  and  Judgment;  or 
(did  we  think  enough  of  what  we  do  believe,  we  would  allow 
more  Love  iti  Religion  than  we  do;  since  Religion  it  self  is 
nothing  else  but  Love  to  God  and  Man. 

552.  He  that  lives  in  Love  lives  in  God,  says  the  Beloved 
Disciple :  And  to  be  sure  a  Man  can  live  no  where  better. 

553.  It  is  most  reasonable  Men  should  value  that  Benefit, 
which  is  most  durable.  Now  Tongues  shall  cease,  and 
Prophecy  fail,  and  Faith  shall  be  consummated  in  Sight,  and 
Hope  in  Enjoyment;  but  Love  remains. 

554.  Love  is  indeed  Heaven  upon  Earth;  since  Heaven 
above  would  not  be  Heaven  without  it:  For  where  there  is 
not  Love;  there  is  Fear:  But  perfect  Love  casts  out  Fear. 
And  yet  we  naturally  fear  most  to  offend  what  we  most 
Love. 

555.  What  we  Love,  we  '11  Hear;  what  we  Love,  we  '11 
Trust;  and  what  we  Love,  we  '11  serve,  ay,  and  suffer  for 
too.  If  you  love  me  (says  our  Blessed  Redeemer)  keep  my 
Commandments.  Why?  Why  then  he  '11  Love  us;  then 
we  shall  be  his  Friends;  then  he  '11  send  us  the  Comforter; 
then  whatsoever  we  ask,  we  shall  receive;  and  then  where 
he  is  we  shall  be  also,  and  that  for  ever.  Behold  the  Fruits 
of  Love ;  the  Power,  Vertue,  Benefit  and  Beauty  of  Love ! 

556.  Love  is  above  all;  and  when  it  prevails  in  us  all,  we 
shall  all  be  Lovely,  and  in  Love  with  God  and  one  with 
another, 

AmeUc 

END  OF  PART  I 


MORE   FRUITS   OF   SOLITUDE 

BEING  THE  SECOND  PART 
OF 

REFLECTIONS  AND    MAXIMS,   RELATING 
TO  THE  CONDUCT  OF  HUMAN  LIFE 


13  HC— Vol.  t 


PART  II 

The  Right  Moralist    .        .        ,        ^        « 
The  World's  Able  Man      .         .         .        »;        » 

The  Wise  Man «: 

Of  the  Government  of  Thoughts     . 

Of  Envy 

Of  Man's  Life 

Of  Ambition 

Of  Praise  or  Applause 

Of  Conduct  in  Speech 

Union  of  Friends         .         . 
Of  Being  Easy  in  Living    .         .         .         .         , 
Of  Man's  Inconsiderateness  and  Partiality     . 
Of  the  Rule  of  Judging     ..... 

Of  Formality 

Of  the  Mean  Notion  we  Have  of  God 

Of  the  Benefit  of  Justice         .         .         «         o 

Of  Jealousy         ........ 

Of  State 

Of  a  Good  Servant »         » 

Of  an  Immediate  Pursuit  of  the  World    . 

Of  the  Interest  of  the  Publick  in  our  Estates     „ 

The  Vain  Man 

The    Conformist 

The  Obligations  of  Great  Men  to  Almighty  God 
Of  Refining  upon  Other  Men's  Actions  or  Interests 
Of   Charity         .        .        ..       ,._       ±. 


PAGE, 

.  391 
.  392 
«  395 
.  396 
.  398 
=  399 
.  399 
.  400 
.  401 
.  402 
.  402 
.  403 
•  404 
■-  405 
.  40s 
.  406 
.  407 
.  407 
.  408 
.  408 

o   409 

.  410 

.  411 

.  412 

.  414 
.  415 


387 


THE   INTRODUCTION   TO  THE   READER 

The  Title  of  this  Treatise  shows,  there  was  a  former  of  the 
same  Nature;  and  the  Author  hopes  he  runs  no  Hazard  in 
recommending  both  to  his  Reader's  Perusal.  He  is  well  aware 
of  the  low  Reckoning  the  Labors  of  indifferent  Authors  are 
under,  at  a  Time  when  hardly  any  Thing  passes  for  current, 
that  is  not  calculated  to  flatter  the  Sharpness  of  contending 
Parties.  He  is  also  sensible,  that  Books  grow  a  very  Drug,  where 
they  cannot  raise  and  support  their  Credit,  by  their  own  Use- 
fulness; and  how  far  this  will  be  able  to  do  it,  he  knows  not; 
yet  he  thinks  himself  tollerably  safe  in  making  it  publick,  in 
three  Respects. 

First,  That  the  Purchase  is  small,  and  the  Time  but  little,  that 
is  requisite  to  read  it. 

Next,  Though  some  Men  should  not  find  it  relish'd  high 
enough  for  their  finer  Wits,  or  warmer  Pallats,  it  will  not  per- 
haps be  useless  to  those  of  lower  Flights,  and  who  are  less  en- 
gaged in  publick  Heats. 

Lastly,  The  Author  honestly  aims  at  as  general  a  Benefit  as 
the  Thing  will  bear;  to  Youth  especially,  whether  he  hits  the 
Mark  or  not:  And  that  without  the  least  Ostentation,  or  any 
private  Regards, 

Let  not  Envy  misinterpret  his  Intention,  and  he  will  be  account- 
able for  all  other  Faults. 

Vale. 


389 


^E    FRUIT 


I 

BEING   THE   SECOND  PART   OF 
REFLECTIONS  &  MAXIMS 

THE  RIGHT   MORALIST 

ARIGHT  Moralist,  is  a  Great  and  Good  Man,  but  for 
that  Reason  he  is  rarely  to  be  found. 
2.  There  are  a  Sort  of  People,  that  are  fond  of 
the   Character,  who,   in  my   Opinion,   have  but  little  Title 
to  it. 

3.  They  think  it  enough,  not  to  defraud  a  Man  of  his  Pay, 
or  betray  his  Friend ;  but  never  consider,  That  the  Law  for- 
bids the  one  at  his  Peril,  and  that  Virtue  is  seldom  the 
Reason  of  the  other. 

4.  But  certainly  he  that  Covets,  can  no  more  be  a  Moral 
Man,  than  he  that  Steals;  since  he  does  so  in  his  Mind. 
Nor  can  he  be  one  that  Robs  his  Neighbor  of  his  Credit,  or 
that  craftily  undermines  him  of  his  Trade  or  Office. 

5.  If  a  Man  pays  his  Taylor,  but  Debauches  his  Wife;  Is 
he  a  current  Moralist? 

6.  But  what  shall  v\^e  say  of  the  Man  that  Rebels  against 
his  Father,  is  an  111  Husband,  or  an  Abusive  Neighbor ;  one 
that  's  Lavish  of  his  Time,  of  his  Health,  and  of  his  Estate, 
in  which  his  Family  is  so  nearly  concerned?  Must  he  go 
for  a  Right  Moralist,  because  he  pays  his  Rent  well? 

7.  I  would  ask  some  of  those  Men  of  Morals,  Whether  he 
that  Robs  God  and  Himself  too,  tho'  he  should  not  defraud 
his  Neighbor,  be  the  Moral  Man  ? 

8.  Do  I  owe  m.y  self  Nothing?  And  do  I  not  owe  All  to 
God?  And  if  paying  what  we  owe,  makes  the  Moral  Man, 
is  it  not  fit  we  should  begin  to  render  our  Dues,  where  we 
owe  our  very  Beginning;  ay,  our  All? 

9.  The  Compleat  Moralist  begins  with  God;  he  gives  him 

391 


392  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  ^ 

his  Due,  his  Heart,  his  Love,  his  Service;  the  Bountiful 
Giver  of  his  Well-Being,  as  well  as  Being. 

10.  He  that  lives  without  a  Sense  of  this  Dependency  and 
Obligation,  cannot  be  a  Moral  Man,  because  he  does  not 
make  his  Returns  of  Love  and  Obedience;  as  becomes  an 
honest  and  a  sensible  Creature:  Which  very  Term  Implies 
he  is  not  his  own;  and  it  cannot  be  very  honest  to  mis- 
imploy  another's  Goods. 

11.  But  can  there  be  no  Debt,  but  to  a  fellow  Creature? 
Or,  will  our  Exactness  in  paying  those  Dribling  ones,  while 
we  neglect  our  weightier  Obligations,  Cancel  the  Bonds  we 
lie  under,  and  render  us  right  and  thorough  Moralists  ? 

12.  As  Judgments  are  paid  before  Bonds,  and  Bonds 
before  Bills  or  Book-Debts,  so  the  Moralist  considers  his 
Obligations  according  to  their  several  Dignities. 

In  the  first  Place^  Him  to  whom  he  owes  himself.  Next, 
himself,  in  his  Health  and  Livelihood.  Lastly,  His  other 
Obligations,  whether  Rational  or  Pecuniary ;  doing  to  others, 
to  the  Extent  of  his  Ability,  as  he  would  have  them  do  unto 
him. 

13.  In  short,  The  Moral  Man  is  he  that  Loves  God  above 
All,  and  his  Neighbor  as  himself,  which  fulfils  both  Tables 
at  once. 

THE   world's   able   MAN 

14.  It  is  by  some  thought,  the  Character  of  an  Able  Man, 
to  be  Dark  and  not  Understood.  But  I  am  sure  that  is  not 
fair  Play. 

15.  If  he  be  so  by  Silence,  't  is  better;  but  if  by  Disguises, 
't  is  insincere  and  hateful. 

16.  Secrecy  is  one  Thing,  false  Lights  is  another. 

17.  The  honest  Man,  that  is  rather  free,  than  open,  is  ever 
to  be  preferr'd ;  especially  when  Sense  is  at  Helm. 

18.  The  Glorying  of  the  other  Humor  is  in  a  Vice :  For  it 
is  not  Humane  to  be  Cold,  Dark,  and  Unconversable.  I 
was  a  going  to  say,  they  are  Hke  Pick-Pockets  in  a  Crowd, 
where  a  Man  must  ever  have  his  Hand  on  his  Purse;  or  as 
Spies  in  a  Garrison,  that  if  not  prevented  betrays  it. 

19.  They  are  the  Reverse  of  Human  Nature,  and  yet  this 
is  the  present  World's  Wise  Man  and  Politician:  Excellent 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  393 

Qualities  for  Lapland,  where,  they  say,  Witches,  though  not 
many  Conjurors,  dwell. 

20.  Like  Highway-Men,  that  rarely  Rob  without  Vizards, 
or  in  the  same  Wigs  and  Cloaths,  but  have  a  Dress  for  every 
Enterprize. 

21.  At  best,  he  may  be  a  Cunning  Man,  which  is  a  sort  of 
Lurcher  in  the  Politicks. 

22.  He  is  never  too  hard  for  the  Wise  Man  upon  the 
Square,  for  ihat  is  out  of  his  Element,  and  puts  him  quite 
by  his  Skill. 

Nor  are  Wise  Men  ever  catch'd  by  him,  but  when  they 
trust  him. 

23.  But  as  Cold  and  Close  as  he  seems,  he  can  and  will 
please  all,  if  he  gets  by  it,  though  it  should  neither  please 
God  nor  himself  at  bottom. 

24.  He  is  for  every  Cause  that  brings  him  Gain,  but  Ira- 
placable  if  disappointed  of  Success. 

25.  And  v/hat  he  cannot  hinder,  he  will  be  sure  to  Spoil, 
by  over-doing  it. 

26.  None  so  Zealous  then  as  he,  for  that  which  he  cannot 
abide. 

27.  What  is  it  he  will  not,  or  cannot  do,  to  hide  his  true 
Sentiments. 

28.  For  his  Interest,  he  refuses  no  Side  or  Party ;  and  will 
take  the  Wrong  by  the  Hand,  v/hen  t'other  won't  do,  with 
as  good  a  Grace  as  the  Right. 

29.  Nay,  he  commonly  chooses  the  Worst,  because  that 
brings  the  best  Bribe :  His  Cause  being  ever  Money. 

30.  He  Sails  with  all  Winds,  and  is  never  out  of  his  Way, 
where  any  Thing  is  to  be  had. 

31.  A  Privateer  indeed,  and  everywhere  a  very  Bird  of  Prey. 

32.  True  to  nothing  but  himself,  and  false  to  all  Persons 
and  Parties,  to  serve  his  own  Turn. 

33.  Talk  with  him  as  often  as  you  please,  he  will  never 
pay  you  in  good  Coin ;  for  't  is  either  False  or  Clipt. 

34.  But  to  give  a  False  Reason  for  any  Thing,  let  my 
Reader  never  learn  of  him,  no  more  than  to  give  a  Brass 
Half-Crown  for  a  good  one :  Not  only  because  it  is  not  true, 
but  because  it  Deceives  the  Person  to  whom  it  is  given; 
which  I  take  to  be  an  Immoralit^r. 


394  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

35.  Silence  is  much  more  preferable,  for  it  saves  the 
Secret,  as  well  as  the  Person's  Honor. 

36.  Such  as  give  themselves  the  Latitude  of  saying  what 
they  do  not  mean,  come  to  be  errant  Jockeys  at  more  Things 
than  one ;  but  in  Religion  and  Politicks,  't  is  miost  pernicious. 

37.  To  hear  two  Men  talk  the  Reverse  of  their  own  Senti- 
ments, with  all  the  good  Breeding  and  Appearance  of  Friend- 
ship imaginable,  on  purpose  to  Cozen  or  Pamp  each  other, 
is  to  a  Man  of  Virtue  and  Honor,  one  of  the  Melancholiest, 
as  well  as  most  Nauseous  Thing  in  the  World. 

38.  But  that  it  should  be  the  Character  of  an  Able  Man, 
is  to  Disinherit  Wisdom,  and  Paint  out  our  Degeneracy  to 
the  Life,  by  setting  up  Fraud,  an  errant  Impostor,  in  her 
Room. 

39.  The  Tryal  of  Skill  between  these  two  is,  who  shall 
believe  least  of  what  t'other  says ;  and  he  that  has  the  Weak- 
ness, or  good  Nature  to  give  out  first,  (viz.  to  believe  any 
Thing  t'other  says)  is  look'd  upon  to  be  Trick'd. 

40.  I  cannot  see  the  Policy,  any  more  than  the  Necessity, 
of  a  Man's  Mind  always  giving  the  Lye  to  his  Mouth,  or  his 
Mouth  ever  giving  the  false  Alarms  of  his  Mind:  For  no 
Man  can  be  long  believed,  that  teaches  all  Men  to  distrust 
him;  and  since  the  Ablest  have  sometimes  need  of  Credit, 
where  lies  the  Advantage  of  their  Politick  Cant  or  Banter 
upon  Mankind? 

41.  I  remember  a  Passage  of  one  of  Queen  Elizabeth's 
Great  Men,  as  Advice  to  his  Friend;  The  Advantage,  says 
he,  I  had  upon  others  at  Court,  was,  that  I  always  spoke  as 
I  thought,  which  being  not  believed  by  them,  I  both  pre- 
serv'd  a  good  Conscience,  and  suffered  no  Damage  from  that 
Freedom :  Which,  as  it  shows  the  Vice  to  be  Older  than  our 
Times,  so  that  Gallant  Man's  Integrity,  to  be  the  best  Way 
of  avoiding  it. 

42.  To  be  sure  it  is  wise  as  well  as  Honest,  neither  to 
flatter  other  Men's  Sentiments,  nor  Dissemble  and  less 
Contradict  our  own. 

43.  To  hold  ones  Tongue,  or  speak  Truth,  or  talk  only  ol 
indifferent  Things,  is  the  Fairest  Conversation. 

44.  Women  that  rarely  go  Abroad  without  Vizard-Masks, 
have  none  of  the  best  Reputatioii.    But  when  we  consider 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  395 

what  all  this  Art  and  Disguise  are  for,  it  equally  heightens 
the  Wise  Man's  Wonder  and  Aversion :  Perhaps  it  is  to  be- 
tray a  Father,  a  Brother,  a  Master,  a  Friend,  a  Neighbor,  or 
ones  own  Party. 

45.  A  fine  Conquest !  what  Noble  Grecians  and  Romans 
abhorr'd:  As  if  Government  could  not  subsist  without 
Knavery,  and  that  Knaves  were  the  Usefullest  Props  to  it; 
tho*  the  basest,  as  well  as  greatest.  Perversion  of  the  Ends 
of  it. 

46.  But  that  it  should  become  a  Maxim,  shows  but  too 
grossly  the  Corruption  of  the  Tim-es. 

47.  I  confess  I  have  heard  the  Stile  of  a  Useful  Knave, 
but  ever  took  it  to  be  a  silly  or  a  knavish  Saying ;  at  least  an 
Excuse  for  Knavery. 

48.  It  is  as  reasonable  to  think  a  Whore  makes  the  best 
Wife,  as  a  Knave  the  best  Officer. 

49.  Besides,  Employing  Knaves,  Encourages  Knavery  in- 
stead of  punishing  it;  and  Alienates  the  Reward  of  Virtue. 
Or,  at  least,  m^ust  make  the  World  believe,  the  Country 
yields  not  honest  Men  enough,  able  to  serve  her. 

50.  Art  thou  a  Magistrate?  Prefer  such  as  have  clean 
Characters  v/here  they  live,  and  of  Estates  to  secure  a  just 
Discharge  of  their  Trusts ;  that  are  under  no  Temptation  to 
strain  Points  for  a  Fortune:  For  somictimes  such  may  be 
found,  sooner  than  the}^  are  Employed. 

51.  Art  thou  a  Private  Man?  Contract  thy  Acquaintance 
in  a  narrow  Compass,  and  chuse  Those  for  the  Subjects  of 
it,  that  are  Men  of  Principles ;  such  as  will  make  full  Stops, 
where  Honor  will  not  lead  them  on;  and  that  had  rather 
bear  the  disgrace  of  not  being  thorow  Paced  Men,  than  for- 
feit their  Peace  and  Reputation  by  a  base  CompHance. 

THE  WISE   MAN 

52.  The  Wise  Man  Governs  himself  by  the  Reason  of  his 
Case,  and  because  v/hat  he  does  is  Best:  Best,  in  a  Moral 
and  Prudent,  not  a  Sinister  Sense. 

53.  He  proposes  just  Ends,  and  employs  the  fairest  and 
probablest  Means  and  Methods  to  attain  them. 

54.  Though  you  cannot  always  penetrate  his  Design,  or 


396  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

his  Reasons  for  it,  yet  you  shall  ever  see  his  Actions  of  a 
Piece,  and  his  Performances  like  a  Workman:  They  will 
bear  the  Touch  of  Wisdom  and  Honor,  as  often  as  they 
are  tryed. 

55.  He  scorns  to  serve  himself  by  Indirect  Means,  or  be 
an  Interloper  in  Government,  since  just  Enterprises  never 
want  any  Just  Ways  to  succeed  them. 

56.  To  do  Evil,  that  Good  may  come  of  it,  is  for  Bunglers 
in  Politicks,  as  well  as  Morals. 

57.  Like  those  Surgeons,  that  will  cut  off  an  Arm  they 
can't  cure,  to  hide  their  Ignorance  and  save  their  Credit. 

58.  The  Wise  Man  is  Cautious,  but  not  cunning; 
Judicious,  but  not  Crafty;  making  Virtue  the  Measure  of 
using  his  Excellent  Understanding  in  the  Conduct  of  his 
Life. 

59.  The  Wise  Man  is  equal,  ready,  but  not  officious;  has 
in  every  Thing  an  Eye  to  Sure  Footing:  He  offends  no 
Body,  nor  easily  is  offended,  and  always  willing  to  Com- 
pound for  Wrongs,  if  not  forgive  them. 

60.  He  is  never  Captious,  nor  Critical;  hates  Banter  and 
Jests:  He  may  be  Pleasant,  but  not  Light;  he  never  deals 
but  in  Substantial  V/are,  and  leaves  the  rest  for  the  Toy 
Pates  (or  Shops)  of  the  World;  which  are  so  far  from  being 
his  Business,  that  they  are  not  so  much  as  his  Diversion. 

61.  He  is  always  for  some  solid  Good,  Civil  or  Moral ;  as, 
to  make  his  Country  more  Virtuous,  Preserve  her  Peace 
and  Liberty,  Imploy  her  Poor,  Improve  Land,  Advance 
Trade,  Suppress  Vice,  Incourage  Industry,  and  all  Mechanick 
Knowledge;  and  that  they  should  be  the  Care  of  the  Gov- 
ernment, and  the  Blessing  and  Praise  of  the  People. 

62.  To  conclude:  He  is  Just,  and  fears  God,  hates  Covet- 
ousness,  and  eschews  Evil,  and  loves  his  Neighbor  as  himself. 


OF  THE  GOVERNMENT   OF  THOUGHTS 

63.  Man  being  made  a  Reasonable,  and  so  a  Thinking 
Creature,  there  is  nothing  more  Worthy  of  his  Being,  than 
the  Right  Direction  and  Employment  of  his  Thoughts ;  since 
upon  This,  depends  both  his  Usefulness  to  the  Publick,  and 
his  own  present  and  future  Benefit  in  all  Respects. 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  397 

64.  The  Consideration  of  this,  has  often  obliged  me  to 
Lament  the  Unhappiness  of  Mankind,  that  through  too  great 
a  Mixture  and  Confusion  of  Thoughts,  have  been  hardly 
able  to  make  a  Right  or  Mature  Judgment  of  Things. 

65.  To  this  is  owing  the  various  Uncertainty  and  Con- 
fusion we  see  in  the  World,  and  the  Intemperate  Zeal  that 
occasions  them. 

66.  To  this  also  is  to  be  attributed  the  imperfect  Knowl- 
edge we  have  of  Things,  and  the  slow  Progress  we  make  in 
attaining  to  a  Better;  like  the  Children  of  Israel  that  were 
forty  Years  upon  their  Journey,  from  Egypt  to  Canaan, 
which  might  have  been  performed  in  Less  than  One. 

6y.  In  fine,  't  is  to  this  that  we  ought  to  ascribe,  if  not 
all,  at  least  most  of  the  Infelicities  we  Labor  under. 

68.  Clear  therefore  thy  Head,  and  Rally  and  Manage  thy 
Thoughts  Rightly,  and  thou  wilt  Save  Time,  and  See  and 
Do  thy  Business  Well;  for  thy  Judgment  will  be  Distinct, 
thy  Mind  Free,  and  the  Faculties  Strong  and  Regular. 

69.  Always  remember  to  bound  thy  Thoughts  to  the 
present  Occasion. 

70.  If  it  be  thy  Religious  Duty,  suffer  nothing  else  to 
Share  in  them.  And  if  any  Civil  or  Temporal  Affair,  ob- 
serve the  same  Caution,  and  thou  wilt  be  a  whole  Man  to 
every  Thing,  and  do  twice  the  Business  in  the  same  Time. 

71.  If  any  Point  over-Labors  thy  Mind,  divert  and  re- 
lieve it,  by  some  other  Subject,  of  a  more  Sensible,  or 
Manual  Nature,  rather  than  what  may  affect  the  Under- 
standing; for  this  were  to  write  one  Thing  upon  another, 
which  blots  out  our  former  Impressions,  or  renders  them 
illegible. 

72.  They  that  are  least  divided  in  their  Care,  always  give 
the  best  Account  of  their  Business. 

73.  As  therefore  thou  art  always  to  pursue  the  present 
Subject,  till  thou  hast  master'd  it,  so  if  it  fall  out  that  thou 
hast  more  Affairs  than  one  upon  thy  Hand,  be  sure  to  prefer 
that  which  is  of  most  Moment,  and  will  least  wait  thy 
Leisure. 

74.  He  that  Judges  not  well  of  the  Importance  of  his 
Affairs,  though  he  may  be  always  Busy,  he  must  make  but 
a  small  Progress. 


398.  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  / 

/ 

75.  But  make  not  more  Business  necessary  than  is  sp; 
and  rather  lessen  than  augment  Work  for  thy  self. 

y6.  Nor  yet  be  over-eager  in  pursuit  of  any  Thing;  for 
the  Mercurial  too  often  happen  to  leave  Judgment  behind 
them,  and  sometim.es  make  Work  for  Repentance. 

•/y.  He  that  over-runs  his  Business,  leaves  it  for  him  that 
follows  more  leisurely  to  take  it  up ;  which  has  often  proved 
a  profitable  Harvest  to  them  that  never  Sow'd. 

78.  'T  is  the  Advantage  that  slower  Tempers  have  upon 
the  Men  of  lively  Parts,  that  tho'  they  don't  lead,  they  will 
Follow  well,  and  Glean  Clean. 

79.  Upon  the  whole  Matter,  Employ  thy  Thoughts  as  thy 
Business  requires,  and  let  that  have  a  Place  according  to 
Merit  and  Urgency;  giving  every  Thing  a  Review  and  due 
Digestion,  and  thou  wilt  prevent  many  Errors  and  Vexations, 
as  well  as  save  much  Time  to  thy  self  in  the  Course  of  thy 
Life. 

OF  ENVY 

80.  It  is  the  Mark  of  an  ill  Nature,  to  lessen  good  Actions, 
and  aggravate  ill  Ones. 

81.  Some  m.en  do  as  much  begrutch  others  a  good  Name, 
as  they  want  one  themselves;  and  perhaps  that  is  the  Rea- 
son of  it. 

82.  But  certainly  they  are  in  the  Wrong,  that  can  think 
they  are  lessened,  because  others  have  their  Due. 

83.  Such  People  generally  have  less  Merit  than  Ambition, 
that  Covet  the  Reward  of  othfer  Men's;  and  to  be  sure  a 
very  ill  Nature,  that  will  rather  Rob  others  of  their  Due, 
than  allow  them  their  Praise. 

84.  It  is  more  an  Error  of  our  Will,  than  our  Judgment: 
For  we  know  it  to  be  an  Effect  of  our  Passion,  not  our 
Reason;  and  therefore  we  are  the  more  culpable  in  our 
Partial  Estimates. 

85.  It  is  as  Envious  as  Unjust,  to  underrate  another's 
Actions  where  their  intrinsick  Worth  recommends  them  to 
disengaged  Minds. 

86.  Nothing  shews  more  the  Folly,  as  well  as  Fraud  of 
Man,  than  Clipping  of  Merit  and  Reputation. 

S^.  And  as  some  Men  think  it  an  Allay  to  themselves. 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  399 

tliat  others  liave  their  Right ;  so  they  know  no  End  of  Pilfer- 
ing to  raise  their  own  Credit. 

^8.  This  Envy  is  the  Child  of  Pride  and  Misgives,  rather 
than  Mistakes. 

89.  It  will  have  Charity,  to  be  Ostentation;  Sobriety, 
Covetousness ;  Humility,  Craft;  Bounty,  Popularity:  In 
short,  Virtue  must  be  Design,  and  Religion,  only  Interest. 
Nay,  the  best  of  Qualities  must  not  pass  without  a  But  to 
allay  their  Merit  and  abate  their  Praise.  Basest  of  Tempers  ! 
and  they  that  have  them,  the  Worst  of  Men  1 

90.  But  Just  and  Noble  Minds  Rejoice  in  other  Men's 
Success,  and  help  to  augment  their  Praise. 

91.  And  indeed  they  are  not  without  a  Love  to  Virtue, 
that  take  a  Satisfaction  in  seeing  her  Rewarded,  and  such 
deserve  to  share  her  Character  that  do  abhor  to  lessen  it. 


OF  man's  life 

92.  Why  is  Man  less  durable  than  the  Works  of  liis 
Hands,  but  because  This  is  not  the  Place  of  his  Rest? 

93.  And  it  is  a  Great  and  Just  Reproach  upon  him,  that 
he  should  nx  his  Mind  where  he  cannot  stay  himself. 

94.  Were  it  not  more  his  Wisdom  to  be  concerned  about 
those  Works  that  will  go  with  him,  and  erect  a  Mansion  for 
him  where  Time  has  Power  neither  over  him  nor  it? 

95.  'T  is  a  sad  Thing  for  Man  so  often  to  miss  his  Way 
to  his  Best,  as  well  as  most  Lasting  Home. 


OF  AMBITION 

96.  They  that  soar  too  high,  often  fall  hard ;  which  makes 
a  low  and  level  Dwelling  preferrable. 

97.  The  tallest  Trees  are  most  in  the  Power  of  the  Winds, 
and  Ambitious  Men  of  the  Blasts  of  Fortune. 

98.  They  are  most  seen  and  observed,  and  most  envyed: 
Least  Quiet,  but  most  talk'd  of,  and  not  often  to  their 
Advantage. 

99.  Those  Buildings  had  need  of  a  good  Foundation,  that 
lie  so  much  exposed  to  Weather. 

100.  Good  Works  are  a  Rock^  that  will  support  theit 


400  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

Credit;  but  111  Ones  a  Sandy  Foundation  that  Yields 
Calamities.  j 

1 01.  And  truly  they  ought  to  expect  no  Pity  in  their  F^ll, 
that  when  in  Power  had  no  Bowels  for  the  Unhappy. 

102.  The  worst  of  Distempers;  always  Craving  and 
Thirsty,  Restless  and  Hated:  A  perfect  Delirium  in  the 
Mind:  Insufferable  in  Success,  and  in  Disappointments  most 
Revengeful. 

OF   PRAISE   OR  APPLAUSE 

103.  We  are  too  apt  to  love  Praise,  but  not  to  Deserve  it. 

104.  But  if  we  would  Deserve  it,  we  must  love  Virtue 
more  than  That. 

105.  As  there  is  no  Passion  in  us  sooner  moved,  or  more 
deceivable,  so  for  that  Reason  there  is  none  over  which  we 
ought  to  be  more  Watchful,  whether  we  give  or  receive  it: 
For  if  we  give  it,  we  must  be  sure  to  mean  it,  and  measure 
it  too. 

106.  If  we  are  Penurious,  it  shows  Emulation;  if  we  ex- 
ceed. Flattery. 

107.  Good  Measure  belongs  to  Good  Actions;  more  looks 
Nauseous,  as  well  as  Insincere;  besides,  't  is  a  Persecuting 
of  the  Meritorious,  who  are  out  of  Countenance  to  hear, 
what  they  deserve. 

108.  It  is  much  easier  for  him  to  merit  Applause,  than 
hear  of  it :  And  he  never  doubts  himself  more,  or  the  Person 
that  gives  it,  than  when  he  hears  so  much  of  it. 

109.  But  to  say  true,  there  needs  not  many  Cautions  on 
this  Hand,  since  the  World  is  rarely  just  enough  to  the 
Deserving. 

no.  However,  we  cannot  be  too  Circumspect  how  we 
receive  Praise:  For  if  we  contemplate  our  selves  in  a 
false  Glass,  we  are  sure  to  be  mistaken  about  our  Dues; 
and  because  we  are  too  apt  to  believe  what  is  Pleasing, 
rather  than  what  is  True,  we  may  be  too  easily  swell'd, 
beyond  our  just  Proportion,  by  the  Windy  Compliments 
of  Men. 

III.  Make  ever  therefore  Allowances  for  what  is  said  on 
such  Occasions,  or  thou  Exposest,  as  well  as  Deceivest  thy 
self. 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  401 

112.  For  an  Over-value  of  our  selves,  gives  us  but  a 
dangerous  Security  in  many  Respects. 

113.  We  expect  more  than  belongs  to  us;  take  all  that  's 
given  us  though  never  meant  us;  and  fall  out  v^^ith  those 
that  are  not  as  full  of  us  as  v^e  are  of  our  selves. 

114.  In  short,  't  is  a  Passion  that  abuses  our  Judgment, 
and  makes  us  both  Unsafe  and  Ridiculous. 

115.  Be  not  fond  therefore  of  Praise,  but  seek  Virtue  that 
leads  to  it. 

116.  And  yet  no  more  lessen  or  dissemble  thy  Merit,  than 
over-rate  it:  For  tho'  Humility  be  a  Virtue,  an  affected  one 
is  none. 

OF  CONDUCT   IN    SPEECH 

117.  Enquire  often,  but  Judge  rarely,  and  thou  wilt  not 
often  be  mistaken. 

118.  It  is  safer  to  Learn,  than  teach;  and  who  conceals 
his  Opinion,  has  nothing  to  Ansv^^er  for. 

119.  Vanity  or  Resentment  often  engage  us,  and  't  is  two 
to  one  but  we  come  off  Losers;  for  one  shews  a  Want  of 
Judgment  and  Humility,  as  the  other  does  of  Temper  and 
Discretion. 

120.  Not  that  I  admire  the  Reserved;  for  they  are  next 
to  Unnatural  that  are  not  Communicable.  But  if  Reserved- 
ness  be  at  any  Time  a  Virtue,  't  is  in  Throngs  or  ill 
Company. 

121.  Beware  also  of  Affectation  in  Speech;  it  often  wrongs 
Matter,  and  ever  shows  a  blind  Side. 

122  Speak  properly,  and  in  as  few  Words  as  you  can, 
but  always  plainly;  for  the  End  of  Speech  is  not  Ostenta- 
tion, but  to  be  understood. 

123.  They  that  affect  Words  more  than  Matter,  will  dry 
up  that  little  they  have. 

124.  Sense  never  fails  to  give  them  that  have  it,  Words 
enough  to  make  them  understood. 

125.  But  it  too  often  happens  in  some  Conversations,  as  in 
Apothecary-Shops,  that  those  Pots  that  are  Empty,  or  have 
Things  of  Small  Value  in  them,  are  as  gaudily  Dress'd  and 
Flourish'd,  as  those  that  are  full  of  precious  Drugs. 

126.  This  Laboring  of  slight  Matter  with  flourish'd  Turna 


402  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

of  Expression,  is  fulsome,  and  worse  than  the  Modern  Imita- 
tion of  Tapestry,  and  East-India  Goods,  in  Stuffs  anc 
Linnens.  In  short,  't  is  but  Taudry  Talk,  and  next  to  ver^ 
Trash. 

UNION    OF   FRIENDS  ( 

127.  They  that  love  beyond  the  World,  cannot  be  sepa- 
rated by  it. 

128.  Death  cannot  kill,  what  never  dies. 

129.  Nor  can  Spirits  ever  be  divided  that  love  and  live  in 
the  same  Divine  Principle;  the  Root  and  Record  of  their 
Friendship. 

130.  If  Absence  be  not  death,  neither  is  theirs. 

131.  Death  is  but  Crossing  the  World,  as  Friends  do  the 
Seas ;  They  live  in  one  another  still. 

132.  For  they  must  needs  be  present,  that  love  and  live 
in  that  which  is  Omnipresent. 

133.  In  this  Divine  Glass,  they  see  Face  to  Face ;  and  their 
Converse  is  Free,  as  well  as  Pure. 

134.  This  is  the  Comfort  of  Friends,  that  though  they  may 
be  said  to  Die,  yet  their  Friendship  and  Society  are,  in  the 
best  Sense,  ever  present,  because  Immortal. 

OF  BEING   EASY   IN   LIVING 

135.  'T  is  a  Happiness  to  be  delivered  from  a  Curious 
Mind,  as  well  as  from  a  Dainty  Palate. 

136.  For  it  is  not  only  a  Troublesome  but  Slavish  Thing 
to  be  Nice. 

137.  They  narrow  their  own  Freedom  and  Comforts,  that 
make  so  much  requisite  to  enjoy  them. 

138.  To  be  Easy  in  Living,  is  much  of  the  Pleasure  of 
Life :  But  Difficult  Tempers  will  always  want  it. 

139.  A  Careless  and  Homely  Breeding  is  therefore  prefer- 
able to  one  Nice  and  Delicate. 

140.  And  he  that  is  taught  to  live  upon  a  little,  owes  more 
to  his  Father's  Wisdom,  than  he  that  has  a  great  deal  left 
him,  does  to  his  Father's  Care. 

141.  Children  can't  well  be  too  hardly  Bred:  For  besides 
that  it  fits  them  to  bear  the  Roughest  Providences,  it  is  more 
Masculine,  Active  and  Healthy. 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  403 

142.  Nay,  't  is  certain,  that  Liberty  of  the  Mind  is 
mightily  preserved  hy  it :  For  so  't  is  served,  instead  of  being 
a  Servant,  indeed  a  Slave  to  sensual  Delicacies. 

143.  As  Nature  is  soon  answered,  so  are  such  satisfied. 

144.  The  Memory  of  the  Ancients  is  hardly  in  any  Thing 
more  to  be  celebrated,  than  in  a  Strict  and  Useful  Institution 
of  Youth. 

145.  By  Labor  they  prevented  Luxury  in  their  young  Peo- 
ple, till  Wisdom  and  Philosophy  had  taught  them  to  Resist 
and  Despise  it. 

146.  It  must  be  therefore  a  gross  Fault  to  strive  so  hard 
for  the  Pleasure  of  our  Bodies,  and  be  so  insensible  and 
careless  of  the  Freedom  of  our  Souls. 


OF  MAN  S  INCONSIDERATENESS  AND  PARTIALITY 

147.  'T  is  very  observable,  if  our  Civil  Rights  are  invaded 
or  incroach'd  upon,  we  are  mightily  touch'd,  and  fill  every 
Place  with  our  Resentment  and  Complaint;  while  we  suffer 
our  selves,  our  Better  and  Nobler  Selves,  to  be  the  Property 
and  Vassals  of  Sin,  the  worst  of  Invaders. 

148.  In  vain  do  we  expect  to  be  delivered  from  such 
Troubles,  till  we  are  delivered  from  the  Cause  of  them,  our 
Disobedience  to  God. 

149.  When  he  has  his  Dues  from  us,  it  will  be  time  enough 
for  Him  to  give  us  ours  out  of  one  another. 

150.  'T  is  our  great  Happiness,  if  we  could  understand  it, 
that  we  meet  with  such  Checks  in  the  Career  of  our  worldly 
Enjoyments,  lest  we  should  Forget  the  Giver,  adore  the  Gift, 
and  terminate  our  Felicity  here,  which  is  not  Man's  ultimate 
Bliss. 

151.  Our  Losses  are  often  made  Judgments  by  our  Guilt, 
and  Mercies  by  our  Repentance. 

152.  Besides,  it  argues  great  Folly  in  Men  to  let  their 
Satisfaction  exceed  the  true  Value  of  any  Temporal  Matter : 
For  Disappointments  are  not  always  to  be  measured  by  the 
Loss  of  the  Thing,  but  the  Over-value  we  put  upon  it. 

153.  And  thus  Men  improve  their  own  Miseries,  for  want 
of  an  Equal  and  Just  Estimate  of  what  they  Enjoy  or  Lose. 

154.  There  lies  a  Proviso  upon  every  Thing  in  this  World. 


404  SOME    FRUITS    OF    SOLITUDE 

and  we  must  observe  it  at  our  own  Peril,  viz.    To  Ibve  God 
above  all,  and  Act  for  Judgment,  the  Last  I  mean. 


OF  THE  RULE  OF  JUDGING 

155.  In  all  Things  Reason  should  prevail:  'T  is  quite  an- 
other Thing  to  be  stiff  than  steady  in  an  Opinion. 

156.  This  May  be  Reasonable,  but  that  is  ever  Wilful. 

157.  In  such  Cases  it  always  happens,  that  the  clearer  the 
Argument,  the  greater  the  Obstinacy,  where  the  Design  is 
not  to  be  convinced. 

158.  This  is  to  value  Humor  more  than  Truth,  and  prefer 
a  sullen  Pride  to  a  reasonable  Submission. 

159.  'T  is  the  Glory  of  a  Man  to  vail  to  Truth;  as  it  is 
the  Mark  of  a  good  Nature  to  be  Easily  entreated. 

160.  Beasts  Act  by  Sense,  Man  should  by  Reason;  else  he 
is  a  greater  Beast  than  ever  God  made:  And  the  Proverb 
is  verified,  The  Corruption  of  the  best  Things  is  the  worst 
and  most  offensive. 

161.  A  reasonable  Opinion  must  ever  be  in  Danger,  where 
Reason  is  not  Judge. 

162.  Though  there  is  a  Regard  due  to  Education,  and  the 
Tradition  of  our  Fathers,  Truth  will  ever  deserve,  as  well 
as  claim  the  Preference. 

163.  If  like  Theophilus  and  Timothy,  we  have  been 
brought  up  in  the  Knowledge  of  the  best  Things,  't  is  our  Ad- 
vantage :  But  neither  they  nor  we  lose  by  trying  their  Truth ; 
for  so  we  learn  their,  as  well  as  its  intrinsick  Worth. 

164.  Truth  never  lost  Ground  by  Enquiry,  because  she  is 
most  of  all  Reasonable. 

165.  Nor  can  that  need  another  Authority,  that  is  Self- 
evident. 

166.  If  my  own  Reason  be  on  the  Side  of  a  Principle,  with 
what  can  I  Dispute  or  withstand  it? 

167.  And  if  Men  would  once  consider  one  another  reason- 
ably, they  would  either  reconcile  their  Differences,  or  more 
Amicably  maintain  them. 

16S.  Let  That  therefore  be  the  Standard,  that  has  most 
to  say  for  itself;  The'  of  that  let  every  Man  be  Judge  for 
himself  e 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  405 

169.  Reason,  like  the  Sun,  is  Common  to  All;  And  *t  is 
for  want  of  examining  all  by  the  same  Light  and  Measure, 
that  we  are  not  all  of  the  same  Mind :  For  all  have  it  to  that 
End,  though  all  do  not  use  it  So. 


OF  FORMALITY 

170.  Form  is  Good,  but  not  Formality. 

171.  In  the  Use  of  the  best  of  Forms  there  is  too  much 
of  that  I  fear. 

172.  'T  is  absolutely  necessary,  that  this  Distinction  should 
go  along  with  People  in  their  Devotion;  for  too  many  are 
apter  to  rest  upon  What  they  do,  than  How  they  do  their 
Duty. 

173.  If  it  were  considered,  that  it  is  the  Frame  of  the 
Mind  that  gives  our  Performances  Acceptance,  we  would 
lay  m.ore  Stress  on  our  Inward  Preparation  than  our  Out- 
ward Action. 


OF  THE  MEAN   NOTION  WE  HAVE  OF  GOD 

174.  Nothing  more  shews  the  low  Condition  Man  is  fallen 
into,  than  the  unsuitable  Notion  we  must  have  of  God,  by 
the  Ways  we  take  to  please  him. 

175.  As  if  it  availed  any  Thing  to  him  that  we  performed 
so  many  Ceremonies  and  external  Forms  of  Devotion,  who 
never  meant  more  by  them,  than  to  try  our  Obedience,  and, 
through  them,  to  shew  us  something  more  Excellent  and 
Durable  beyond  them. 

176.  Doing,  while  we  are  Undoing,  is  good  for  nothing. 

177.  Of  what  Benefit  is  it  to  say  our  Prayers  regularly,  go 
to  Church,  receive  the  Sacraments,  and  may  be  go  to  Con- 
fessions too;  ay.  Feast  the  Priest,  and  give  Alms  to  the 
Poor,  and  yet  Lye,  Swear,  Curse,  be  Drunk,  Covetous, 
Unclean,  Proud,  Revengeful,  Vain  and  Idle  at  the  same 
Time  ? 

178.  Can  one  excuse  or  ballance  the  other?  Or  v/ill  God 
think  himself  well  served,  where  his  Law  is  Violated?  Or 
well  used,  where  there  is  so  much  more  Shew  tjian  Sub- 
stance ? 


406  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

179.  'T  is  a  most  dangerous  Error  for  a  Man  to  think  to 
excuse  himself  in  the  Breach  of  a  Moral  Duty,  by  a  Formal 
Performance  of  Positive  Worship ;  and  less  when  of  Human 
Invention. 

180.  Our  Blessed  Saviour  most  rightly  and  clearly  dis- 
tinguished and  determined  this  Case,  when  he  told  the  Jews, 
that  they  were  his  Mother,  his  Brethren  and  Sisters,  who 
did  the  Will  of  his  Father. 


OF  THE  BENEFIT  OF  JUSTICE 

181.  Justice  is  a  great  Support  of  Society,  because  an 
Insurance  to  all  Men  of  their  Property:  This  violated, 
there  's  no  Security,  which  throws  all  into  Confusion  to 
recover  it. 

182.  An  Honest  Man  is  a  fast  Pledge  in  Dealing.  A  Man 
is  Sure  to  have  it  if  it  be  to  be  had. 

183.  Many  are  so,  merely  of  Necessity:  Others  not  so 
only  for  the  same  Reason:  But  such  an  honest  Man  is  not 
to  be  thanked,  and  such  a  dishonest  Man  is  to  be  pity'd. 

184.  But  he  that  is  dishonest  for  Gain,  is  next  to  a  Robber, 
and  to  be  punish'd  for  Example. 

185.  And  indeed  there  are  few  Dealers^  but  what  are 
Faulty,  which  m.akes  Trade  Difficult,  and  a  great  Temptation 
to  Men  of  Virtue. 

186.  'T  is  not  what  they  should,  but  what  they  can  get: 
Faults  or  Decays  must  be  concealed :  Big  Words  given,  where 
they  are  not  deserved,  and  the  Ignorance  or  Necessity  of  the 
Buyer  im.posed  upon  for  unjust  Profit. 

187.  These  are  the  Men  that  keep  their  Words  for 
their  own  Ends,  and  are  only  Just  for  Fear  of  the  Mag- 
istrate. 

188.  A  Politick  rather  than  a  Moral  Honesty;  a  con- 
strained, not  a  chosen  Justice:  According  to  the  Proverb, 
Patience  per  Force,  and  thank  you  for  nothing. 

189.  But  of  all  Justice,  that  is  the  greatest,  that  passes 
tinder  the  Name  of  Law.  A  Cut-Purse  in  Westmin- 
ster-Hall exceeds;  for  that  advances  Injustice  to  Op- 
pression, where  Law  is  alledged  for  that  which  it  should 
punish. 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  407 

OF  JEALOUSY 

190.  The  Jealous  are  Troublesome  to  others,  but  a  Tor- 
ment to  themselves. 

191.  Jealousy  is  a  kind  of  Civil  War  in  the  Soul,  where 
Judgment  and  Imagination  are  at  perpetual  Jars. 

192.  This  Civil  Dissension  in  the  Mind,  like  that  of  the 
Body  Politick,  commits  great  Disorders,  and  lays  all  waste. 

193.  Nothing  stands  safe  in  its  Way:  Nature,  Interest, 
Religion,  must  Yield  to  its  Fury. 

194  It  violates  Contracts,  Dissolves  Society,  Breaks  Wed- 
lock, Betrays  Friends  and  Neighbors.  No  Body  is  Good, 
and  every  one  is  either  doing  or  designing  them  a  Mischief. 

195.  It  has  a  Venome  that  more  or  less  rankles  wherever 
it  bites:  And  as  it  reports  Fancies  for  Facts,  so  it  disturbs 
its  own  House  as  often  as  other  Folks. 

196.  Its  Rise  is  Guilt  or  111  Nature,  and  by  Reflection 
thinks  its  own  Faults  to  be  other  Men's ;  as  he  that  's  over- 
run with  the  Jaundice  takes  others  to  be  Yellow. 

197.  A  Jealous  Man  only  sees  his  own  Spectrum,  when  he 
looks  upon  other  Men,  and  gives  his  Character  in  theirs. 

OF  STATE 

198.  I  love  Service,  but  not  State ;  One  is  Useful,  the  other 
is  Superfluous. 

199.  The  Trouble  of  this,  as  well  as  Charge,  is  Real;  but 
the  Advantage  only  Imaginary. 

200.  Besides,  it  helps  to  set  us  up  above  our  selves,  and 
Augments  our  Temptation  to  Disorder. 

201.  The  Least  Thing  out  of  Joint,  or  omitted,  make  us 
uneasy:  and  we  are  ready  to  think  our  selves  ill  served, 
about  that  which  is  of  no  real  Service  at  all:  Or  so  much 
better  than  other  Men,  as  we  have  the  Means  of  greater 
State. 

202.  But  this  is  all  for  want  of  Wisdom,  which  carries  the 
truest  and  most  forceable  State  along  with  it. 

203.  He  that  makes  not  himself  Cheap  by  indiscreet  Con- 
versation, puts  Value  enough  upon  himself  every  where, 

204.  The  other  is  rather  Pageantry  than  State, 


408  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

OF  A  GOOD  SERVANT 

205.  A  True,  and  a  Good  Servant,  are  the  same  Thing. 

206.  But  no  Servant  is  True  to  his  Master,  that  Defrauds 
him. 

207.  Now  there  are  many  Ways  of  Defrauding  a  Master,  as,  of 
Time,  Care,  Pains,Respect,  and  Reputation,  as  well  as  Money. 

208.  He  that  Neglects  his  Work,  Robs  his  Master,  since 
he  is  Fed  and  Paid  as  ii  he  did  his  Best;  and  he  that  is  not 
as  Diligent  in  the  Absence,  as  in  the  Presence  of  his  Master, 
cannot  be  a  true  Servant. 

209.  Nor  is  he  a  true  Servant,  that  buys  dear  to  share  in 
the  Profit  with  the  Seller. 

210.  Nor  yet  he  that  tells  Tales  without  Doors;  or  deals 
basely  in  his  Master's  Name  with  other  People ;  or  Connives 
at  others  Loyterings,  Wasteings,  or  dishonorable  Reflections. 

211.  So  that  a  true  Servant  is  Diligent,  Secret,  and  Re- 
spectful: More  Tender  of  his  Master's  Honor  and  Interest, 
than  of  his  own  Profit. 

212.  Such  a  Servant  deserves  well,  and  if  Modest  under 
his  Merit,  should  liberally  feel  it  at  his  Master's  Hand. 

OF  AN  IMMEDIATE  PURSUIT  OF  THE  WORLD 

213.  It  shews  a  Depraved  State  of  Mind,  to  Cark  and  Care 
for  that  which  one  does  not  need. 

214.  Some  are  as  eager  to  be  Rich,  as  ever  they  were  to 
Live:  For  Superfluity,  as  for  Subsistance. 

215.  But  that  Plenty  should  augment  Covetousness,  is  a 
Pes'version  of  Providence;  and  yet  the  Generality  are  the 
worse  for  their  Riches. 

216.  But  it  is  strange,  that  Old  Men  should  excel :  For  gen- 
erally Money  lies  nearest  them  that  are  nearest  their  Graves ; 
As  if  they  would  augment  their  Love  in  Proportion  to  the 
little  Time  they  have  left  to  enjoy  it:  And  yet  their  Pleasure 
is  without  Enjoyment,  since  none  enjOy  what  they  do  not  use. 

217.  So  that  instead  of  learning  to  leave  their  greath 
Wealth  easily,  they  hold  the  Faster,  because  they  must  leave 
it:  So  Sordid  is  the  Temper  of  some  Men. 

218.  Where  Charity  keeps  Pace  with  Gain,  Industry  is 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  409 

blessed:  But  to  slave  to  get,  and  keep  it  Sordidly,  is  a  Sin 
against  Providence,  a  Vice  in  Government,  and  an  Injury 
to  their  Neighbors. 

219.  Such  are  they  as  spend  not  one  Fifth  of  their  In- 
come, and,  it  may  be,  give  not  one  Tenth  of  what  they  spend 
to  the  Needy. 

220.  This  is  the  worst  Sort  of  Idolatry,  because  there  can  be 
no  Religion  in  it,  nor  Ignorance  pleaded  in  Excuse  of  it ;  and 
that  it  wrongs  other  Folks  that  ought  to  have  a  Share  therein. 


OF  THE  INTEREST  OF  THE  PUBLICK  IN   OUR  ESTATES 

221.  Hardly  any  Thing  is  given  us  for  our  Selves,  but  the 
Publick  may  claim  a  Share  with  us.  But  of  all  we  call  ours, 
we  are  most  accountable  to  God  and  the  Publick  for  our  Es- 
tates: In  this  we  are  but  Stewards,  and  to  Hord  up  all  to 
ourselves  is  great  Injustice  as  well  as  Ingratitude. 

222.  If  all  Men  were  so  far  Tenants  to  the  Publick,  that 
the  Superfluities  of  Gain  and  Expence  were  applied  to  the 
Exigencies  thereof,  it  would  put  an  End  to  Taxes,  leave 
never  a  Beggar,  and  make  the  greatest  Bank  for  National 
Trade  in  Europe. 

223.  It  is  a  Judgment  upon  us,  as  well  as  Weakness,  tho' 
we  wont't  see  it,  to  begin  at  the  wrong  End. 

224.  If  the  Taxes  we  give  are  not  to  maintain  Pride,  I  am 
sure  there  would  be  less,  if  Pride  were  made  a  Tax  to  the 
Government. 

225.  I  confess  I  have  wondered  that  so  many  Lawful  and 
Useful  Things  are  excised  by  Laws,  and  Pride  left  to  Reign 
Free  over  them  and  the  Publick. 

226.  But  since  People  are  more  afraid  of  the  Laws  of 
Man  than  of  God,  because  their  Punishment  seems  to  be 
nearest :  I  know  not  how  magistrates  can  be  excused  in  their 
suffering  such  Excess  with  Impunity. 

227.  Our  Noble  English  Patriarchs  as  well  as  Patriots, 
were  so  sensible  of  this  Evil,  that  they  made  several  ex- 
cellent Laws,  commonly  called  Sumptuary,  to  Forbid,  at 
least  Limit  the  Pride  of  the  People ;  which  because  the  Exe- 
cution of  them  would  be  our  Interest  and  Honor,  their 
Neglect  must  be  our  just  Reproach  and  Loss. 


410  .SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

228.  T  is  but  Reasonable  that  the  Punishment  of  Pride 
and  Excess  should  help  to  support  the  Government,  since 
it  must  otherwise  inevitably  be  ruined  by  them. 

229.  But  som^e  say,  It  ruins  Trade,  and  will  make  the  Poor 
Burthensorne  to  the  Publick;  But  if  such  Trade  in  Conse- 
quence ruins  the  Kingdom,  is  it  not  Time  to  ruin  that 
Trade?  Is  Moderation  no  Part  of  our  Duty,  and  Temper- 
ance an  Enem.y  to  Government? 

230.  He  is  a  Judas  that  will  get  Money  by  any  Thing. 

231.  To  wink  at  a  Trade  that  effeminates  the  People,  and 
invades  the  Ancient  Discipline  of  the  Kingdom,  is  a  Crime 
Capital,  and  to  be  severely  punish'd  instead  of  being  excused 
by  the  Magistrate. 

232.  Is  there  no  better  Employment  for  the  Poor  than 
Luxury  ?    Miserable  Nation  ! 

233.  What  did  they  before  they  fell  into  these  forbidden 
Methods  ?  Is  there  not  Land  enough  in  England  to  Culti- 
vate, and  more  and  better  Manufactures  to  be  Made? 

234.  Have  we  no  Room  for  them  in  our  Plantations,  about 
Things  that  may  augment  Trade,  without  Luxury  ? 

235.  In  short,  let  Pride  pay,  and  Excess  be  well  Excised: 
And  if  that  will  Cure  the  People,  it  will  help  to  Keep  the 
Kingdom. 

THE  VAIN   MAN 

236.  But  a  Vain  Man  is  a  Nauseous  Creature:  He  is  so 
full  of  himself  that  he  has  no  Room  for  any  Thing  else,  be 
it  never  so  Good  or  Deserving. 

237.  'T  is  I  at  every  turn  that  does  this,  or  can  do  that. 
A.nd  as  he  abounds  in  his  Comparisons,  so  he  is  sure  to  give 
himiself  the  better  of  every  Body  else;  according  to  the 
Proverb,  All  his  Geese  are  Swans. 

238.  They  are  certainly  to  be  pity'd  that  can  be  so  much 
mistaken  at  Home. 

239.  And  yet  I  have  somictimes  thought  that  such  People  are 
in  a  sort  Happy,  that  nothing  can  put  out  of  Countenance  with 
themselves,  though  they  neither  have  nor  merit  other  Peoples. 

240.  But  at  the  same  Time  one  would  wonder  they  should 
not  feel  the  Blows  they  give  themselves,  or  get  from  others, 
for  this  intolerable  and  ridiculous  Temper  5  nor  shew  any 


MOUE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  411 

Concern  at  that  which  makes  others  blush  for,  as  well  as  at 
them,  (viz.)  their  unreasonable  Assurance. 

241.  To  be  a  Man's  own  Fool  is  bad  enough,  but  the  Vain 
Man  is  Every  Body's. 

242.  This  silly  Disposition  comes  of  a  Mixture  of  Igno- 
rance, Confidence,  and  Pride ;  and  as  there  is  more  or  less  of 
the  last,  so  it  is  more  or  less  offensive  or  Entertaining. 

243.  And  yet  perhaps  the  worst  Part  of  this  Vanity  is  it's 
Unteachableness.  Tell  it  any  Thing,  and  it  has  known  it 
long  ago ;  and  out-runs  Information  and  Instruction,  or  else 
proudly  pufts  at  it. 

244.  Whereas  the  greatest  Understandings  doubt  most,  are 
readiest  to  learn,  and  least  pleas'd  with  themselves ;  this,  with 
no  Body  else. 

245.  For  tho'  they  stand  on  higher  Ground,  and  so  see 
farther  than  their  Neighbors,  they  are  yet  humbled  by  their 
Prospect,  since  it  shews  them  something,  so  much  higher  and 
above  their  Reach. 

246.  And  truly  then  it  is,  that  Sense  shines  with  the  great- 
est Beauty  when  it  is  set  in  Humility. 

247.  An  humble  able  Man  is  a  Jewel  worth  a  Kingdom: 
It  is  often  saved  by  him,  as  Solomon's  Poor  Wise  Man  did 
the  City. 

248.  May  we  have  more  of  them,  or  less  Need  of  them* 


THE  CONFORMIST 

249.  It  is  reasonable  to  concur  where  Conscience  does  not 
forbid  a  Compliance;  for  Conformity  is  at  least  a  Civil 
Virtue. 

250.  But  we  should  only  press  it  in  Necessaries,  the  rest 
may  prove  a  Snare  and  Temptation  to  break  Society. 

251.  But  above  all,  it  is  a  Weakness  in  Religion  and  Gov- 
ernment, where  it  is  carried  to  Things  of  an  Indifferent 
Nature,  since  besides  that  it  makes  Way  for  Scruples,  Lib- 
erty is  always  the  Price  of  it. 

252.  Such  Conformists  have  little  to  boast  of,  and  there- 
fore the  less  Reason  to  Reproach  others  that  have  more 
Latitude. 

253.  And  ytt  the  Latitudinarian  that  I  love,  is  one  that  is 


412  SOME  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

only  so  in   Charity;   for  the  Freedom  I   recommend  is  no 
Scepticism  in  Judgment,  and  much  less  so  in  Practice. 


THE  OBLIGATIONS  OF  GREAT  MEN  TO  ALMIGHTY  GOD 

254.  It  seems  but  reasonable,  that  those  whom  God  has 
Distinguish'd  from  others;  by  his  Goodness,  should  dis- 
tinguish themselves  to  him  by  their  Gratitude. 

255.  For  tho'  he  has  made  of  One  Blood  all  Nations,  he 
has  not  rang'd  or  dignified  them  upon  the  Level,  but  in  a 
sort  of  Subordination  and  Dependency. 

256.  If  we  look  upwards,  we  find  it  in  the  Heavens,  where 
the  Planets  have  their  several  Degrees  of  Glory,  and  so  the 
other  Stars  of  Magnitude  and  Lustre. 

257.  If  we  look  upon  the  Earth,  we  see  it  among  the  Trees 
of  the  Wood,  from  the  Cedar  to  the  Bramble;  in  the  Waters 
among  the  Fish,  from  the  Leviathan  to  the  Sprat;  in  the 
Air  among  the  Birds,  from  the  Eagle  to  the  Sparrow; 
among  the  Beasts,  from  the  Lyon  to  the  Cat;  and  among 
Mankind  it  self,  from  the  King  to  the  Scavenger. 

258.  Our  Great  Men,  doubtless,  were  designed  by  the 
Wise  Framer  of  the  World  for  our  Religious,  Moral  and 
Politick  Planets;  for  Lights  and  Directions  to  the  lower 
Ra»ks  of  the  numerous  Company  of  their  own  Kind,  both 
in  Precepts  and  Examples;  and  they  are  well  paid  for  their 
Pains  too,  who  have  the  Honor  and  Service  of  their  fellow 
Creatures,  and  the  Marrow  and  Fat  of  the  Earth  for  their 
Share. 

259.  But  is  it  not  a  most  unaccountable  Folly,  that  Men 
should  be  Proud  of  the  Providences  that  should  Humble 
them?  Or  think  the  Better  of  themselves,  instead  of  Him 
that  raised  them  so  much  above  the  Level;  or  in  being  so 
in  their  Lives,  in  Return  of  his  Extraordinary  Favors. 

260.  But  it  is  but  too  near  a-kin  to  us,  to  think  no  further 
than  our  selves,  either  in  the  Acquisition,  or  Use  of  our 
Wealth  and  Greatness ;  when,  alas,  they  are  the  Preferments 
of  Heaven,  to  try  our  Wisdom,  Bounty  and  Gratitude. 

261.  'T  is  a  dangerous  Perversion  of  the  End  of  Provi- 
dence to  Consume  the  Time,  Power  and  Wealth  he  has 
given  us  above  other  Men,  to  gratify  our  Sordid  Passions, 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  413 

instead  of  playing  the  good  Stewards,  to  the  Honor  of  our 
great  Benefactor,  and  the  Good  of  our  Fellow-Creatures. 

262.  But  it  is  an  Injustice  too;  since  those  Higher  Ranks 
of  Men  are  but  the  Trustees  of  Heaven  for  the  Benefit  of 
lesser  Mortals,  who,  as  Minors,  are  intituled  to  all  their  Care 
^nd  Provision. 

263.  For  though  God  has  dignified  some  Men  above  their 
Brethren,  it  never  was  to  serve  their  Pleasures,  but  that  they 
might  take  Pleasure  to  serve  the  PubHck. 

264.  For  this  Cause  doubtless  it  was,  that  they  were  raised 
above  Necessity  or  any  Trouble  to  Live,  that  they  might  have 
more  Time  and  Ability  to  Care  for  Others :  And  't  is  certain, 
where  that  Use  is  not  made  of  the  Bounties  of  Providence, 
they  are  Imbezzell'd  and  Wasted. 

265.  It  has  often  struck  me  with  a  serious  Reflection,  when 
I  have  observed  the  great  Inequality  of  the  World ;  that  one 
Man  should  have  such  Numbers  of  his  fellow  Creatures  to 
Wait  upon  him,  who  have  Souls  to  be  saved  as  well  as  he'; 
and  this  not  for  Business,  but  State.  Certainly  a  poor  Em- 
ployment of  his  Money,  and  a  worse  of  their  Time. 

266.  But  that  any  one  Man  should  make  Work  for  so 
many ;  or  rather  keep  them  from  Work,  to  make  up  a  Train, 
has  a  Levity  and  Luxury  in  it  very  reprovable,  both  in  Re- 
ligion and  Government. 

267.  But  even  in  allowable  Services  it  has  an  humbling 
Consideration,  and  what  should  raise  the  Thankfulness  of 
the  Great  Men  to  him  that  has  so  m^uch  better'd  their  Cir- 
cumstances, and  Moderated  the  Use  of  their  Dominion  over 
those  of  their  own  Kind. 

268.  When  the  poor  Indians  hear  us  call  any  of  our  Family 
by  the  Name  of  Servants,  they  cry  out.  What,  call  Brethren 
Servants  !  We  call  our  Dogs  Servants,  but  never  Men.  The 
Moral  certainly  can  do  us  no  Harm,  but  may  Instruct  us  to 
abate  our  Height,  and  narrow  our  State  and  Attendance, 

269.  And  what  has  been  said  of  their  Excess,  may  in  some 
measure  be  apply'd  to  other  Branches  of  Luxury,  that  set  ill 
Examples  to  the  lesser  World,  and  Rob  the  Needy  of  their 
Pensions. 

270.  GOD  Almighty  Touch  the  Hearts  of  our  Grandees 
with  a  Sense  of  his  Distinguish'd  Goodness,  and  that  true 


414  SOME    FRUITS    OF    SOLITUDE 

End  of  it;  that  they  may  better  distinguish  themselves  in 
their  Conduct,  to  the  Glory  of  Him  that  has  thus  liberally 
Preferred  them,  and  the  Benefit  of  their  fellow  Creatures. 


OF   REFINING    UPON    OTHER    MEN^S    ACTIONS    OR    INTERESTS 

271.  This  seems  to  be  the  Master-Piece  of  our  Politicians; 
But  no  Body  shoots  more  at  Random,  than  those  Refiners. 

2^2.  A  perfect  Lottery,  and  meer  Hap-Hazard.  Since  the 
true  Spring  of  the  Actions  of  Men  is  as  Invisible  as  their 
Hearts;  and  so  are  their  Thoughts  too  of  their  several 
Interests. 

273.  Pie  that  judges  of  other  Men  by  himself,  does  not 
always  hit  the  Mark,  because  all  Men  have  not  the  same 
Capacity,  nor  Passions  in  Interest. 

274.  If  an  able  Man  refines  upon  the  Proceedings  of  an 
ordinary  Capacity,  according  to  his  own,  he  must  ever  miss 
it:  But  much  more  the  ordinary  Man,  when  he  shall  pretend 
to  speculate  the  Motives  to  the  able  Man's  Actions:  For  the 
Able  Man  deceives  himself  by  making  t'other  wiser  than  he 
is  in  the  Reason  of  his  Conduct;  and  the  ordinary  Man 
makes  himself  so,  in  presuming  to  judge  of  the  Reasons  of 
the  Abler  Man's  Actions. 

275.  'T  is  in  short  a  Wood,  a  Maze,  and  of  nothing  are  we 
more  uncertain,  nor  in  anything  do  we  of  tener  befool  ourselves. 

276.  The  Mischiefs  are  many  that  follow  this  Humor,  and 
dangerous :  For  Men  Misguide  themselves,  act  upon  false  Meas- 
ures, and  meet  frequently  with  mischievous  Disappointments, 

277.  It  excludes  all  Confidence  in  Commerce;  allows  of  no 
such  Thing  as  a  Principle  in  Practice ;  supposes  every  Man  to 
act  upon  other  Reasons  than  what  appears,  and  that  there  is 
no  such  Thing  as  a  Straightness  or  Sincerity  among  Man- 
kind: A  Trick  instead  of  Truth. 

278.  Neither,  allowing  Nature  or  Religion;  but  some 
Worldly  Fetch  or  Advantage:  The  true,  the  hidden  Motive 
to  all  Men  to  act  or  do. 

279.  'T  is  hard  to  express  its  Uncharitableness,  as  well  as 
Uncertainty ;  and  has  more  of  Vanity  than  Benefit  in  it. 

280.  This  Foolish  Quality  gives  a  large  Field,  but  let  what 
I  have  said  serve  for  this  Time. 


MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE  415 


OF  CHARITY 

281.  Charity  has  various  Senses,  but  is  Excellent  in  all  of 
them. 

282.  It  imports ;  first,  the  Commiseration  of  the  Poor,  and 
Unhappy  of  Mankind,  and  extends  an  Helping-Hand  to 
mend  their  Condition. 

283.  They  that  feel  nothing  of  this,  are  at  best  not  above 
half  of  Kin  to  Human  Race ;  since  they  must  have  no  Bov/els, 
which  makes  such  an  Essential  Part  thereof,  who  have  no 
more  Nature. 

284.  A  Man,  and  yet  not  have  the  Feeling  of  the  Wants  or 
Needs  of  his  own  Flesh  and  Blood !  A  Monster  rather ! 
And  may  he  never  be  suffered  to  propagate  such  an  unnatural 
Stock  in  the  World. 

285.  Such  an  Uncharitableness  spoils  the  best  Gains,  and 
two  to  one  but  it  entails  a  Curse  upon  the  Possessors. 

286.  Nor  can  we  expect  to  be  heard  of  God  in  our 
Prayers,  that  turn  the  deaf  Ear  to  the  Petitions  of  the  Dis- 
tressed amongst  our  fellow  Creatures. 

287.  God  sends  the  Poor  to  try  us,  as  well  as  he  tries  them 
by  being  such :  And  he  that  refuses  them  a  little  out  of  the 
great  deal  that  God  has  given  him,  Lays  up  Poverty  in  Store 
for  his  own  Posterity. 

288.  I  will  not  say  these  Works  are  Meritorious,  but  dare 
say  they  are  Acceptable,  and  go  not  without  their  Reward: 
Tho'  to  Humble  us  in  our  Fulness  and  Liberality  too,  we 
only  Give  but  what  is  given  us  to  Give  as  well  as  use;  for 
if  we  are  not  our  own,  less  is  that  so  which  God  has  in- 
trusted us  w^ith. 

289.  Next,  Charity  makes  the  best  Construction  of  Things 
and  Persons,  and  is  so  far  from  being  an  evil  Spy,  a  Back- 
biter, or  a  Detractor,  that  it  excuses  Weakness,  extenuates 
Miscarriages,  makes  the  best  of  every  Thing ;  forgives  every 
Body,  serves  All,  and  hopes  to  the  End. 

290.  It  moderates  Extreams,  is  always  for  Expediences, 
labors  to  accommodate  Differences,  and  had  rather  suffer 
than  Revenge:  And  so  far  from  Exacting  the  utmost 
Farthing,  that  it  had  rather  lose  than  seek  her  Own  Violently. 


416  MORE  FRUITS  OF  SOLITUDE 

291.  As  it  acts  Freely,  so,  Zealously  too;  but  't  is  always 
to  do  Good,  for  it  hurts  no  Body. 

292.  An  Universal  Remedy  against  Discord,  and  an  Holy 
Cement  for  Mankind. 

293.  And  lastly,  'T  is  Love  to  God  and  the  Brethren, 
which  raises  the  Soul  above  all  worldly  Considerations ;  and, 
as  it  gives  a  Taste  of  Heaven  upon  Earth,  so  't  is  Heaven 
in  the  Fulness  of  it  hereafter  to  the  truly  Charitable  here. 

294.  This  is  the  Noblest  Sense  Charity  has,  after  which 
all  should  press,  as  that  more  Excellent  Way. 

295.  Nay,  most  Excellent;  for  as  Faith,  Hope  and  Charity 
were  the  more  Excellent  Way  that  Great  Apostle  discovered 
to  the  Christians,  (too  apt  to  stick  in  Outward  Gifts  and 
Church  Performances)  so  of  that  better  Way  he  preferred 
Charity  as  the  best  Part,  because  it  would  out-last  the  rest, 
and  abide  for  ever. 

296.  Wherefore  a  Man  can  never  be  a  true  and  good 
Christian  without  Charity,  even  in  the  lowest  Sense  of  it: 
'And  yet  he  may  have  that  Part  thereof,  and  still  be  none  of 
the  Apostle's  true  Christian,  since  he  tells  us.  That  tho'  we 
should  give  all  our  Goods  to  the  Poor,  and  want  Charity 
(in  her  other  and  higher  Senses)  it  would  profit  us  nothing. 

297.  Nay,  tho'  we  had  All  Tongues,  All  Knowledge,  and 
even  Gifts  of  Prophesy,  and  were  Preachers  to  others;  ay, 
and  had  Zeal  enough  to  give  our  Bodies  to  be  burned,  yet 
if  we  wanted  Charity,  it  would  not  avail  us  for  Salvation. 

298.  It  seems  it  was  his  (and  indeed  ought  to  be  our) 
Umim  Necessarium,  or  the  One  Thing  Needful,  which  our 
Saviour  attributed  to  Mary  in  Preference  to  her  Sister 
Martha,  that  seems  not  to  have  wanted  the  lesser  Parts  of 
Charity. 

299.  Would  God  this  Divine  Virtue  were  more  implanted 
and  diffused  among  Mankind,  the  Pretenders  to  Christianity 
especially,  and  we  should  certainly  mind  Piety  more  than 
Controversy,  and  Exercise  Love  and  Compassion  instead  of 
Censuring  and  Persecuting  one  another  in  any  Manner: 
whatsoever. 

END  OF  PART  II 


1*5 


BOSTON  COLLEGE 


3   9031    026   12437   0 


r 


