mmmmrmmmtmumumi 


B   ^   Difi  I7fi 


G   B00^ 


CAPTAI 


I  JON 


LONDON:    IHiNRY 


MaaannanaawaMnm 


.1.  imjimtumnmagtnry^ 


GIFT 
HORACE  W«  CARFENTIER 


io^ 

^■^ 

: ■      >■ 

C-/ 

^ 

;/ 

/ 

6 


7- 


Hausa  Reading  Book 


containing 


A  Collection  of  Texts  reproduced  in  facsimile 
from  Native  Manuscripts,  arranged  for  the 
use  of  Beginners  and  Advanced  Students; 
with  Transliterations  into  Roman  characters; 
Translations,  Notes,  &c. 

By 

Captain  Charlton,  D.S.O.,  F.R.G.S. 

Lancashire  Fusiliers 
(Late  of  the  West  African  Frontier  Force) 


Henry  Frowde 

Oxford  University  Press 

London,  New  York  and  Toronto 

1908 


OXFORD :     HORACE    HART 
PRINTER    TO    THE    UNIVERSITY 


Cguxlh'-'- 


H3"7^ 


PREFACE 

The  object  of  this  work  is  twofold.  Firstly,  it  is 
intended  to  be  useful  to  the  beginner  by  means  of 
a  close  study  of  the  transliterations  in  conjunction 
with  the  simple  grammatical  notes,  and  secondly,  it  is 
hoped  that  the  student  will  be  able  by  its  means  to 
acquaint  himself  with  the  native  w^riting,  and  read 
with  profit  the  more  advanced  grammatical  notes. 
Hausa  manuscripts  are  not  easy  to  come  by.  Until 
quite  recently  Arabic  was  the  sole  language  for  com- 
position known  in  West  Africa,  just  as,  previous  to 
Dante's  time,  Latin  was  the  only  vehicle  of  thought  in 
Europe,  the  vernacular  languages  being  considered 
beneath  the  contempt  of  men  of  learning.  Even 
to-day  all  Hausa  literature  is  permeated  with  Koranic 
quotations  and  references.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that 
with  due  encouragement  the  Hausa  Mai  lam  wdll  learn 
to  use  for  literary  purposes  his  own  tongue  exclusively. 
The  language  possesses  many  beauties  both  of  con- 
struction and  of  expression,  and  it  abounds  in  proverbs 
and  proverbial  sayings.  It  has  in  some  sort  already 
become  the  '  lingua  franca'  of  West  Africa,  and  each 
day  its  use  extends. more  and  more.     Also  as  a  lan- 

A  2 

4937  3  i 


4  PREFACE 

guage  of  commerce  it  is  eminently  suitable  owing  to 
its  many  idioms  of  trade  and  barter  and  to  its  excellent 
system  of  notation. 

As  regards  the  arrangement  of  this  book,  the  pieces 
have  been  graded  according  to  their  difficulties  ;  many 
of  the  footnotes  are  non-grammatical  in  character  and 
may  be  said  to  possess  a  general  interest  ;  the  pieces 
are  tabulated  on  the  contents  page  with  English  titles 
for  facility  of  reference,  but  the  native  name  of  the 
piece  has  been  added  where  it  occurs  in  the  MS.  The 
punctuation  of  the  MS.  has  been  preserved  in  the 
transliterations  for  the  sake  of  uniformity. 

Concerning  the  simple  notes  on  grammar,  I  desire  to 
acknowledge  the  assistance  afforded  by  the  Lecture 
notes  of  Messrs.  Lewis  H.  Nott  and  W.  H.  Brooks. 
To  Mr.  Brooks  especially,  who  has  taken  much  kind 
interest  in  the  book,  I  must  express  my  great  indebted- 
ness for  his  revision  and  suggestions.  It  is  owing  to 
his  knowledge  of  Arabic  and  his  peculiar  acquaintance 
with  the  Koran  that  the  notes  dealing  with  these 
subjects  have  been  enriched  and  made  of  interest. 
I  have  also  to  add  that  if  the  book  commends 
itself  to  the  student  of  Hausa,  and  it  is  deemed  neces- 
sary, a  full  translation  of  the  pieces  will  be  forth- 
coming. 

L.  Charlton. 

Army  and  Navy  Club,  S.W. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Preface 3 

Fifteen  Proverbs    7 

Common  Maxims  (Maganna  nabiu)       .        i        .       .  8 

The  Deadly  Sins  (Maganna  zunubi)  ....  9 

Hours  of  Prayer 10 

Riddles  (Gatana  gatana) 12 

Letter  from  a  Mallam 14 

Our  Ancestor  Adam  (Maganna  kakanmu  adamu)      .  16 
The  Story  of  Joseph  (Maganna  na  tokkos)    .        .17 

Moses  and  his  Mission .21 

**  The  Hawk,  the  Dove,  and  the  Prophet  .        .        .  23 

The  Boy  and  the  Lion  Cub 25 

*The  Wrangling  Wives 30 

*The  Leper  and  the  Blind  Mas  (wonga  almara)       .  34 

The  Wedded  Pair 38 

Questions     and    Answers    (labari     wali     allahi 

SUNANSA  AEU   MUHAMADU) 42 

Reflections  on  Death 47 

Circular  Letter 52 

Attributes  of  the  Prophet 61 

mutane  zina 62 

Waka 66 

Translations  of  a  few  of  the  stories     .        .        .  78 

FACSIMILES u'/^;/./ 


>         J  > 

9  »     » 

D   J  >      i     3 


HAUSA     READINGS 

FIFTEEN    PROVERBS 

Lafia  jikki  arziki  ne  ^ 
Abokin  sariki  sariki  ne  -. 
Mainama  shi  kan  nema  wuta". 
Rasshin  tuo  kan  chi  wake  akwana  *. 
Jini  ba  shi  wanka  dauda. 
Ango  mijin  amaria  ^ 

Yunwa  shi  kan  maida  yaro  tsofo  koshi  shi  kan  maida 
tsofo  yaro  ^. 

Proverbs  play  an  important  part  in  the  Hausa  language. 
Conversation  among  the  natives  is  sometimes  almost  imin- 
telligible,  even  to  one  who  is  well  acquainted  with  the  language, 
from  the  fact  that  their  talk  abounds  in  these  '  saws  and  sayings  '. 
The  reader  is  referred  to  Captain  Merrick's  splendid  collection, 
should  he  wish  to  study  this  important  phase  of  the  language. 
'  Kerrin  maganna  '  is  the  phrase  used  for  a  proverb. 

^  '  Health  spells  prosperity.' 

^  Implies  that  for  favours  or  requests,  the  King's  favourite  is 
as  pow-erful  as  the  King. 

^  '  The  successful  hunter  must  build  a  fire,'  i.  e.  there  is  always 
something  lacking. 

*  '  Lacking  '*  tuo"  one  must  eat  beans  and  get  to  bed.'  '  Tuo  ' 
is  the  dish  of  the  affluent,  but  no  one  eats  beans  except  through 
stress  of  poverty. 

^  Implies  that  the  bridegroom,  and  he  alone,  has  to  do  with 
the  bride. 

°  '  Hunger  makes  a  young  man  old  ;  a  full  stomach  makes 
an  old  man  young.' 


8  HAUSA   READINGS 

Taftia  sannu  kwana  nesa  ^. 

Allah  she  ne  maisanni  ba  bawa  ba. 

Laifi  baba  rowa  laifi  yaro  kiuwa  ^. 

Gidda  bin  magani  gobarra  ^. 

Maiiddo  gudda  ba  shi  gode  allah  sai  ya  ganiii 
makafo  lokachinan  ya  che  nawa  da  dama. 

Maichiwo  ba  shi  gode  allah  sai  ya  ganni  gawa 
anadaukansa  zua  wurin  bizne  ^^. 

Marena  kadan  barao  ne  ^^ 

Kaddan  ka  ganni  gemi  dan  uwanka  na  chin  wuta 
shafa  naka  rua  ^^. 

''  '  More  haste  less  speed,'  '  festina  lente.' 
^  '  The  fault  of  age  is  meanness,  of  youth,  laziness.' 
^  '  The  best  protection  against  fire  is  to  build  two  houses.' 
^*^  Implies  that  one  rarely  realizes  when  one  is  well  off. 
"  '  Who  belittles  is  capable  of  theft.' 

'-  '  If  you  see  your  brother's  beard  burning,  rush  and  throw 
water  on  your  own,'  i.  e.  take  warning  from  others'  misfortunes. 
'Chi  wuta,'  'take  fire'  ;  'ji  wuta,'  'feel  the  fire,  to  be  heated, 
warnied  ' ;  '  sa  wuta,'  with  '  ga,  ma,'  '  set  fire  to.' 

COMMON    MAXIMS 

MAGANNA   NABIU  ^ 

Rai  wonda  babu  kurdi  ya  zamma  rai  banza. 
Maganna  babu  iko  maganna  banza. 
Kaddan  kana  da  kurdi  kowa  shina  sonka. 

^  These  are  a  few  maxims  in  everyday  use,  the  last  of  which 
may  certainly  be  distinguished  for  its  sound  common  sense. 
The  heading  is  simply  expressive  of  the  order  of  the  pieces  in 
a  particular  collection. 


COMMON    MAXIMS  9 

Kaddan  ba  ka  da  kurdi  babu  wonda  shina^  sonka. 

Kaddan  ka  zamma  maitsoroii  allah  allah  shina 
sonka. 

Kaddan  ba  ka  tsoron  allah  ba  shi  sonka. 

Kaddan  ba  ka  san  hallin  mutum  ba  kadda  ka  zamna 
da  shi. 

^  '  Babu  wonda  shina  sonka '  should  be,  in  a  negative 
proposition,  '  babu  wonda  shi  sonka ',  as  in  line  4. 

THE    DEADLY    SINS 

MAGANNA   ZUNUBP 

Kasshin  kai.      Tsalumchi.      Sata.  Zina  -.     Muna- 

fiichi.     Zumde^      Anamimanchi  ^*.  Zagin  IMiisiilmi. 

Chidacheto.       Karia.       Mugunbaki.  Rabba    aure. 

Chin  haramu.     Fasikanchi.      Rowa.  Kin  zumunchi. 

^  This  is  a  list  of  offences,  twenty- one  in  all,  against  the 
precepts  of  Islam,  evidently  put  down  at  haphazard.  Idolatry, 
the  unforgivable  sin,  finds  no  place  in  the  category.  In  order 
they  are  as  follows  : — Murder.  Deceit.  Thieving.  Adultery. 
Hypocrisy.  Deriding.  Calumny.  Abuse  of  Mussulmans. 
Bribery.  Lying.  An  evil  tongue.  Coming  between  husband 
and  wife.  Unlawful  gain.  Licentiousness.  Meanness.  Re- 
pudiation of  social  duties.  To  revile  parents.  Jealousy.  False 
witness.     Promise-breaking.     Secret  tale-bearing. 

^  *  Zina ' :  well  illustrated  by  the  '  mutanen  zina '. 

^  *  Zumde  ' :  often  found  as  '  zunde '.  It  really  means  '  to  pout 
the  lips  out '.  Cf.  Koran  xxxi.  17  :  '  Distort  not  thy  face  against 
men,  nor  walk  in  the  earth  with  insolence,  for  Allah  loves  not 
the  arrogant.' 

*  '  Anamimanchi ' :  also  found  as  '  ananmanchi '. 


lo  HAUSA    READINGS 

Zage.       Uwaye.       Hasada.       Shaida  Karia.       Babu 
alkaueli.     Kormotto.     Duka  ashirin  da  daia. 


HOURS    OF   PRAYER 

Ya  kamata  idan  musulmi  ya  yi  salla  da  assuba  ^ 
kuma  da  laasar  shi  yi  wurdi^  tojani  -^  ko  alkadiria*. 

^  'Salla  da  assuba.'  This,  the  early  morning  prayer,  is 
according  to  the  Koran  the  most  important  of  the  day,  for  it 
is  borne  witness  to  by  the  angels.  The  meaning  of  this  is 
assumed  by  some  of  the  learned  commentators  to  be  that 
at  that  time  the  guardian  angels  relieve  each  other. 

-  '  Wurdi ' :  from  the  Arabic  root  :>j^,  '  warada,'  originally 
meaning  '  to  approach  to  take  water '.  In  some  of  its  forms 
it  has  the  meaning  '  hand  down,  expound,  teach'.  We  connect 
with  this  the  Persian  '  wirdi ',  '  disciple.'  Translate  here  : 
'  Follow  the  doctrine,  play  the  disciple.' 

^  '  Tojani,'  or,  as  it  is  more  generally  written, '  tijani,'  was  the 
name  of  a  great  sheikh  and  sectarian.  Apparently  Moham- 
medanism, as  received  by  the  Hausas,  is  divided  into  two 
principal  sects,  the  followers  of  the  '  Tijani  '  school,  and  those 
of  the  sect  referred  to  in  note  \ 

*  '  Alkadiria.'  On  these  names  compare  the  following  passage 
from  a  historical  composition  in  Fulah  given  at  the  end  of 
Reichardt's  Grammar  of  the  FiiJde  Laiigicage  :  '  Allah  took 
care  of  him  (Hajji  Omaru)  until  he  grew  and  learned  the  Koran 
and  different  books.  Allah  gave  him  talents  and  learning. 
After  that  he  considered  about  going  to  Mecca,  and  he  reached 
his  Sheikh,  the  Sheikh  Tijani.  And  he  set  out  and  passed 
through  Futa  Jallo.  He  took  up  his  residence  there  with 
his  pupils.  When  he  started  for  Mecca  his  pupils  went  with 
him,  and  they  reached  Hausa  country.  He  passed  through 
the  Bornu  countr)'  and  he  met  the  Hausa  king  and  the  Bornu 


HOURS    OF   PRAYER  ii 

Amma  salla  duka  lokachi  biar  ne  assuba  da 
azuhur  da  laasar  da  magariba  da  lisha  amma  babu 
wLirdi  chikkin  sai  lokachi  bin  ^. 

Woni  hainya  ^  kana  bi  lojani  ko  alkadiria. 

king.  They  were  engaged  in  fighting.  He  passed  and  went 
on  ;  and  on  his  way  he  composed  on  certain  verses  of  the 
Koran  until  he  reached  Mecca.  He  found  that  the  Sheikh 
Tijani  was  dead.  He  met  the  Sheikh  Muhammed  Legali,  with 
whom  the  Sheikh  Tijani  had  left  his  halifa  (i.e.  his  office,  as 
well  as  his  gif'ts  and  power).  He  lived  with  him  seven  years 
and  took  upon  himself  all  the  cares  of  his  house  and  gave 
himself  to  him.  He  followed  him  and  never  changed  his  word. 
He  gave  him  money  and  did  his  word  cheerfully  during  the 
seven  years.  He  lived  with  him  at  Madina  and  he  conferred 
upon  him  his  halifa  luirdit  (i.  e.  the  Khalifate  or  office)  of  the 
head  of  the  sect  of  Sheikh  Tijani.  And  the  Sheikh  Muhammed 
Legali  gave  honour  to  him  (viz.  to  Omaru)  and  called  him 
his  Sheikh  after  he  found  that  Sheikh  Tijani  was  dead.  .  .  . 
Muhammed  Bello  adopted  the  tarika  (the  principles  of  the 
sect)  of  Sheikh  Tijani  from  Sheikh  Omaru.  Muhammed 
Bello  told  Sheikh  Omaru  to  write  a  book  concerning  the  Kadiri 
people  (i.  e.  the  sect  of  Abd-el-Kadiri)  exhorting  that  there  be 
no  hostile  rivalry  between  them  (i.  e.  the  two  sects),  that  those 
who  are  not  able  to  adopt  the  tarika  of  Sheikh  Tijani  may 
not  injure  themselves.'  *  The  Kadiria  were  an  ascetic  order 
of  Fakirs  instituted  A.  H.  561  by  Abdu-'l-Kadir  al  Jilani,  whose 
shrine  is  at  Bagdad.  The  order  was  very  popular  among  the 
Sunnis  of  Asia.     (Hughes's  Dictiotiary  of  I  si  an  u) 

^  The  meaning  of  this  is  that  only  at  the  morning  and 
evening  prayer  is  it  necessary  to  distinguish  between  the 
sects  of  Tijani  and  Alkadiria. 

^  'Woni  hainya'  should  of  course  be  '  wache  hainya' 
according  to  grammar. 

*  For  this  phrase  cf.  Koran  ii.  51. 


12  HAUSA   READINGS 

RIDDLES 

GATANA   GATANA 
Ta  zo  ta  fishe  ^. 

Yanmata  cicldanmu  kullum  wonka.     Moda  ^. 

Rami  kankanni  kifaye  sun  chikka.     Hakori^. 

Gulbina  ba  shi  chin  mutum  tsakka  sai  g^^G.   Wuka*. 

Dakin  samari  babu  kofa.     Kwoi^. 

Gari  shina  da  daki  yara  suna  kwana  da  yungwa. 
Toka  6. 

Gabba  tarn  baya  tarn,     Ganga*^. 

Shanu  giddanmu  dubu  goma  duka  igiansu  daia. 
Sinsia  ^. 

^  This  phrase  is  the  invariable  preamble  to  a  riddle.  It  may 
be  translated  : 

'  My  story,  my  story, 
It  comes,  it  puts  you  off  the  track.' 
It  is  comparable  with  '  Riddle-me-Riddle-me-wree.' 

-  *  Moda '  is  the  small  dipper,  which  floats  inside  the  big 
calabash,  and  is  used  for  filling  the  same.  In  the  sense  of 
being  always  in  the  water  it  is  '  constantly  washing '. 

"  The  '  kifaye  '  in  the  small  pond  are  the  teeth  in  the  mouth. 

*  A  knife  cuts  at  the  edge,  while  a  torrent,  '  gulbi,'  drowns  its 
victims  in  the  centre. 

^  '  Samari '  represent  the  chicks  in  the  unhatched  egg. 

^  Meant  to  express  the  appearance  of  a  cooking  fire  after 
it  is  dead ;   the  ashes  are  likened  to  '  boys  in  bed  supperless'. 

'  'Tarn,'  'taut.'  'What  is  that  which  is  taut  both  before 
and  behind  : '     Answer :  '  A  drum.' 

^  'Sinsia':  the  small  besom,  made  of  many  twigs  bound 
together,  with  which  the  Hausa  housewife  sweeps  the  com- 
pound. 


RIDDLES  13 

Yanmata  giddanmu  da  farin  baki.     Tabcria^. 
Ina  da  hainya  biu  na  bi  wonga  na  taffi  na   komo 
ban  bache  ba.     Wando  ^^. 

Tammat. 

These  have  been  selected  as  representative  specimens.  The 
Hausas  are  very  fond  of  riddles,  especially  the  children,  who 
possess  quite  a  store  of  them.  There  is  no  attempt  at  punning, 
the  riddle  being  more  of  the  nature  of  an  enigma.  If  the  answer 
is  given  up,  the  would-be  solver  says  '  Na  baka  gari ',  whereupon 
the  solution  is  given  and  applause  invariably  provoked.  They 
are  quick  to  see  and  appreciate  the  hidden  meaning.  The 
old  English  riddle  as  given  below  is  of  the  nature  of  a  Hausa 
riddle. 

'As  I  was  going  over  London  Bridge, 

I  met  a  cart  of  hay, 
I  touched  it  with  my  walking  stick, 
It  all  flew  away.' 

Answer :  '  A  flock  of  pigeons.' 

°  '  Taberia,'  '  Fufu  stick,'  which  being  in  constant  use 
pounding  corn,  &c.,  has  always  its  ends  whitened. 

'°  '  I  have  two  roads  ;  whichever  I  take  I  return  and  never 
lose  my  way.'  Answer  :  '  Trousers,'  the  Hausa  variety  of  which 
may  be  put  on  either  leg  first. 


14  HAUSA    READINGS 

LETTER   FROM   A    MALLAM 

Wonga  wochika  ta  fitta  dagga  hanu  ^  mallam  ali 
bagobiri  -  zashi  aika  wurin  abokinsa  sunansa  Captain 
Charlton  shina  chikkin  woni  gari  anache  da  shi  kin- 
tampo  ^  Ina  yi  maka  gaisua  maiyawa  :  dagga  bayan 
wonan :  na  komo  dagga  ankra*  yanzu  na  zamna 
chikkin  kiimase  kaddan   takarda   na  :    ta  iskeka    da 

This  piece  has  been  inserted  as  a  good  example  of  the  style 
of  correspondence  which  obtains  among  the  better  educated 
Hausas.  It  is  interesting  to  observe  how  the  difficulty  of 
rendering  English  proper  names  has  been  surmounted,  especially 
in  the  case  of  '  Volunteer  adjutant '. 

As  is  usual,  the  lines  of  direction,  &c.,  are  wTitten  in  the 
third  person,  suddenly  giving  place  to  the  personal  form  of 
address. 

See  below,  note  ^,  for  a  further  description  of  the  Hausa 
letter. 

^  '  Ta  fitta  dagga  hanu.'  '  Ta  fitta  hanu '  would  also  be 
correct,  and  even  better  Hausa.  Concerning  this  see  note  ^\ 
'  The  Boy  and  the  Lion  Cub.' 

2  '  Ali  bagobiri "  is  the  regimental  priest  of  the  Gold  Coast 
regiment,  and  an  intelligent  and  well-educated  man. 

These  gentilic  names  are  formed  by  prefixing  '  Ba '  and 
suffixing  *  i '  to  the  name  of  the  nation  or  country,  e.  g.  '  ba- 
beriber-i ',  '  ba-zabarim-i,'  &c.  ;  in  the  case  of  ba-hausa-i,  '  a-i ' 
coalesce  into  the  diphthongal  vowel  '  -e ',  before  which  '  s '  is 
palatalized  to  '  sh  ',  giving  '  ba-haushe  '.  Plurals  in  use  are 
*  gobirawa ',  '  hausawa,'  '  zabarimawa,'  &c. 

^  '  Kintampo '  is  a  large  market  town,  north  of  Ashanti,  on  the 
eighth  parallel  of  latitude. 

*  '  Ankra  '  is  the  native  rendering  of  Accra,  the  capital  of  the 
Gold  Coast  Colony. 


LETTER   FROM    A    MALLAM  15 

lafia  na  gode  allah  shi  baka  lafia  :  allah  shi  baka  yawa 
rai  ^  :  allah  shi  kara  maka  arziki :  kaddan  ka  tambaya 
lafiana  na  gode  allah  na  ji  labarinka  wurin  Shelley  ^ 
ya  fadda  mini  kun  ganni  zuna  dagga  ture  '^ :  amma 
yanzu  mister  Shelley  ya  zamna  chikkin  ankra  :  shina 
yin  :  aiki  volunteer  adjutant  :  shi  kuma  shina  lafia : 

^  In  the  phrase  'Allah  shi  baka  yawafn)  rai',  'May  God 
multiply  your  days,'  we  have  the  Hausa  translation  of  a 
common  formula  in  Arabic  letters  :  '  Tawwala  lana  allah 
'omraka.'  The  same  also  applies  to  the  Hausa  phrase  so  often 
met  with  in  conversation  and  literature:  'Allah  shi  deddi 
ranka.'  It  may  here  be  stated  that  the  normal  construction 
of  a  Hausa  letter  is  based  on  the  Arabic.  It  is  usual  with  all 
writers,  but  with  Moslems  an  invariable  rule,  to  begin  with  some 
form  of  the  'Bismillah';  see  note  \  '  Mutane  zina.'  Then 
follow  the  names,  designations,  addresses,  &c.,  of  the  writer 
and  his  correspondent.  After  this  come  copious  salutations  to 
the  receiver  of  the  letter,  his  family,  relations,  &c.  Next,  in 
imitation  of  the  Arabic  phrase  '  amma  ba'du  ',  '  but  afterwards,' 
the  real  purport  of  the  letter  is  introduced  by  means  of  the 
Hausa  equivalent  '  Bayan  wonan ',  '  after  this,'  or  some  such 
phrase.  The  letter  then  terminates  with  renewed  well-wishing 
and  salutations. 

°  Shelley  is  the  name  of  an  officer  of  the  Gold  Coast  regiment. 

'^  '  Ture '  is  the  country  of  the  white  man,  England,  as  far  as 
our  natives  are  concerned. 

'  Ba-ture,'  see  above,  note  ^,  is  used  exclusively  of  a  European, 
though  originally  used  to  designate  the  Arab  strangers  who 
were  continually  arriving  in  the  West  Coast  Hinterland  from 
the  East.  The  word  is  of  Arabic  derivation.  In  No.  7  o 
Messrs.  Brooks  and  Nott's  '  Batu  na  abubuan  hausa ',  '  Turi 
Sinai '  stands  for  the  name  of  a  well-known  rock. 

'  Kun  ganni  zuna  dagga  ture,'  '  You  saw  each  other  in 
England.' 


i6  HAUSA   READINGS 

na  bershi  da  lafia :  dagga  bayan  wonan :  babu  woni 
labari  chikkin  kiimase  sai  lafia  :  allah  shi  sakke  taramu 
da  lafia^  tammat  iii  ne  abokinka  mallam  ali. 

^  'Allah  shi  sakke  taramu  da  lafia,'  '  God  grant  we  may  meet 
(again)  in  all  prosperity/ 

The  word  'sakke'  is  curious,  and  deserves  notice.  Its  primi- 
tive meaning  seems  to  be  '  to  let  go ',  '  let  loose,'  and  then 
'  start ',  e.  g.  '  ya  sakke  tashi  '  constantly  recurring  in  Specimens 
of  Hausa  Lite7-ature^  G.  From  these  the  meanings  '  permit, 
grant '  are  easily  derived. 


OUR  ANCESTOR  ADAM 

MAGANNA  KAKANMU  ADAMU 

Lokachinda  ankahalichi  adamu  ya  che  shi  ya  gode 
allah  don  bai  halicheshi  zaki  ^  ba. 

Zaki  shi  kuma  ya  che  shi  ya  gode  allah  don  bai 
halicheshi  karre  ba. 

Karre  shi  kuma  ye  che  shi  ya  gode  allah  don  bai 
halicheshi  gurusunu "  ba. 

Gurusunu  shi  kuma  ya  che  shi  ya  gode  allah  don 
bai  halicheshi  barao  ba. 

Barao  shi  kuma  ya  che  shi  ya  gode  allah  don  bai 
halicheshi  mairowa  ba. 

Mairowa  ya  che  shi  ya  gode  allah  don  bai  halicheshi 
kafiri  ba. 

1  'Zaki.'     It  is  probable  that  '  jaki', '  donkey,'  is  here  meant, 
from  the  similarity  of  sound  and  carelessness  of  the  scribe. 

2  'Gurusunu,*  'hog  or  hogs.'  The  same  form  of  the  word 
seems  to  be  used  for  both  singular  and  plural. 


OUR   ANCESTOR   ADAM  17 

Kafiri  ya  che  shi  ya  gode  allah  don  bai  halicheshi 
maikaria  ba. 

Maikaria  shi  kuma  ya  rassa  wonda  shi  zai  kirra"'. 

Tammat. 

^  The  liar  being  the  most  contemptible  of  all,  has  no  one 
beneath  him. 

THE  STORY  OF  JOSEPH 

MAGANNA  NA  TOKKOS 

Labari  annabi  yusufu  ^  da  shi  da  shaitani-  ya  zo 
wurin  annabi  yusufu  ya  fadda  masa  ya  che  ubangiji 
allah  shina  sonka  dayawa  ya  baka  dukia  da  bissashe" 

This  fable  bears  a  striking  resemblance  to  the  Story  of  Job. 
Apart  from  the  general  likeness,  in  each  it  is  Satan  who  causes 
the  Lord  to  '  touch  all  that  he  hath ',  and  in  each  the  reward  for 
resignation  is  the  same,  namely,  increase  of  flocks  and  herds, 
and  many  children.  Moreover,  to  make  the  resemblance  still 
more  striking,  in  this,  as  in  the  Biblical  Story,  it  is  on  the  second 
appearance  of  Satan  before  God  that  the  holy  man  is  visited  by 
sickness. 

^  '  Yusufu '  is  '  Joseph  ".  According  to  the  Koran,  an  inspired 
prophet. 

^  *  Shaitani' is  '  Satan ',  and  is  in  more  common  use  in  the 
Koran  than  '  Iblis ',  denoting  the  same  personality. 

^  'Bissashe'  is  the  plural  form  of  'Bissa',  'animal,  beast'; 
many  Hausa  nouns  form  their  plural  by  reduplication  in  this 
manner  :  Kassa,  Kassashe,  land,  earth. 

Gari,     Garurua,     town. 
Haki,    Hakukua,    hole. 
Wuri,  Wurare,      place. 
Abu,     Abubua,      thing. 
&c.,  Sec. 
The  sibilant  s  becomes  palatalized  into  s/i  before  /  or  e. 

B 


i8  IIAUSA    READINGS 

da  haifiia  dayawa"*  ya  koma^  wurin  ubangiji  allah  ya 
fadda  masa  ya  chc  annabi  yusufu  ba  shi  sonka  don 
ka  bashi  diikia  da  dowaki  domin  hakkanau  shina  yin 
salla  dayawa  kamman  ka  bashi  wohalla  da  hasara  da 
chiwo  ka  ganni  ya  ber  saUa  duka  :  ubangiji  allah  ya 
che  masa  ashe  ^ :  ya  sa  annabi  yusufu  aloba  ''  chikkin 
giddansa  yaransa  duka  suka  mutu  da  shanusa^  da 
ragunansa^  duka  suka  mutu  da  matansa  saura  shi 
daia  duda  ^^  hakkanan  bai  ber  salla  ba  shina  yin  salla 

*  '  Haifua  dayawa/  'many  children';  lit.  'many  births'. 
There  are  various  forms  of  the  verb,  as  '  haife  ',  '  haifa,'  '  haifu.' 
It  is  both  transitive  and  intransitive. 

^  '  Koma,'  '  to  return/  possesses  a  difference  of  meaning  when 
the  terminal  a  is  altered  to  o.  In  the  latter  case,  motion 
towards  the  speaker,  or  on  his  behalf,  is  inferred, 

i.  e.  '  Ya  koma,'  '  he  returned  (to  his  town).' 
'  Ya  komo,'  '  he  returned  (to  me).' 

^  'Ashe'  is  an  ejaculation  used  upon  the  receipt  of  intelli- 
gence a  little  out  of  the  ordinary.  The  English  '  You  don't  say 
so '  is  an  equivalent. 

^  '  Aloba '  is  from  the  Arabic  Uj",  '  to  infest  with  a  plague,' 
^  empester.^  From  this  is  derived  the  Arabic  substantive  "^b^, 
'  waba.'  In  modern  Arabic  the  classical  conjunction  ^,  '  wa,' 
becomes  '  u  '  or  '  o  ' ;  so  we  get  '  oba  ',  and  with  the  article, 
'  aloba.' 

^  '  Shanusa  '  is  the  plural  form  of  '  sa ', '  bull,'  feminine  '  sania  '. 
As  written  here  it  is  incorrect,  '  shanunsa  '  being  the  proper 
form.  This  is  carelessness,  and  not  ignorance,  on  the  part 
of  the  writer. 

^  '  Ragunansa,'  the  plural  of  '  rago ',  '  a  ram,  tup.' 

^°  '  Duda  ' ;  the  meaning  is  '  notwithstanding  '.  It  is  perhaps 
a  corruption  of  'duka  da',  but  does  not  seem  to  be  in  use 
colloquially.     See  line  20, '  Waka.' 


THE   STORY   OF  JOSEPH  19 

wokachi  ^^  duka  yusufu  shina  faddi  babu  komi  allah 
shI  ne  ya  bani  shi  kuma  ya  karba  ^^  abinsa  ^^ :  bayan 
wanan  shaitani  ya  koma  wurin  ubangiji  alLah  ya  che 
masa  ka  sa  annabi  yusufu  chikkin  chiwo  ka  ganni  ya 
ber  salla  ubangiji  ya  sa  masa  chiwo  shina  kunche^* 
shekaransa  sebain  chikkin  chiuta  duda  hakkanan  shina 
yin  salla  bai  fassa  ^-^  salla  ba  ko  rana  gudda :  shaitani 

^^  'Wokachi.'  The  word  chiefly  in  use  amongst  the  Hausas 
is  '  lokachi ',  *  time,  season.'     It   is  derived  from  the  Arabic 

oJjJl.  Probably  the  word  used  here  is  the  intermediate  form 
by  which  'lokachi'  was  derived.  The  Hausa  '  lottu ',  'time,' 
is  derived  from  the  same  Arabic  expression.  This  is  a  case  of 
dualism,  i.  e.  that  a  derived  word  often  appears  in  another 
language  in  two  forms.  An  instance  is  the  Latin  natalis^  which 
appears  in  French  in  the  forms  noel  and  7iatal. 

^^  'Allah  shi  ne  ya  bani  shi  kuma  ya  karba.'  This  is  almost 
word  for  word  with  the  Biblical  sentence, '  The  Lord  gave  and 
the  Lord  hath  taken  away.' 

*^  'Abinsa.'  When  not  suffixed  this  word  takes  the  form 
'  abu  ',  plural  '  abubua '.  Hausa  possesses  a  curious  tendency  to 
change  '  u  '  into  '  i ' : 

'  Yunwa,' '  hunger,'  becomes  '  yinwa  '. 
'  Surdi,'  '  saddle,'  becomes  '  sirdi ', 

and  there  are  other  examples.     Note  ^^,  '  Waka,'  q.v. 

^*  '  Kunche '  means  '  to  untie,  loosen,'  as  used  in  the  story  of 
'  The  Boy  and  the  Lion  Cub,'  note  *. 

The  same  meaning  here  is  obviously  inadmissible,  and  it  is 
probable  that  what  is  intended  is  the  word  '  kumche  ',  '  to  make 
narrow,  straighten,  tighten,  confine,'  of  which  a  form  '  kumtata ' 
is  to  be  found  in  Specimens  of  Hausa  Literature^  A.  67. 

'^  'Fassa'  has  other  forms,  e.g.  'fasshe',  '  passhe ' ;  the 
Hausa  labial  articulation  is  very  defective  ',  f,p,  b  are  frequently 
interchangeable;  cf.  Hausa- Dictionary^  Preface,  page  xviii. 

13  2 


20  HAUSA    READINGS 

ya  ji  kumla^*"  vvurin  ubangiji  allah  :  allah  }'a  soma 
bashi  rongomi  har  ya  samu  sauki :  ya  samii  lafia  ya 
samu  mata  suna  haifua  ya  kuma  samu  dukiansa^"^  da 
shanu  da  dawaki :  ubangiji  ya  bashi  ya  komo  kam- 
manda  shi  ke  da^^:  domin  hakkanan  kowa  shi  nemi 
tsari  ^^  da  shaitani. 

Tammat -^. 

''  '  Kumia,'  '  shame,'  is  also  written  and  pronounced  'kunia'. 
'  Ka  ji  kumia,'  'shame  to  you/  is  a  common  expression •  of 
reproach. 

^^  'Dukiansa,'  which  should  be,  correctly,  '  dukiarsa,' 
'  dukialsa,'  or  '  dukiatasa,'  is  typical  of  the  carelessness  of  the 
Hausas  when  dealing  with  the  feminine  possessive.  A  few 
nouns  with  the  feminine  termination  '  a  '  are  masculine.  Among 
them  are  '  gidda  ',  *  rua,'  '  guga,'  '  kaya,'  &c. 

^^  'Ubangiji  ya  bashi  ya  komo  kammanda  shi  ke  da.'  This 
is  good  Hausa,  and  an  example  of  the  manner  in  which  the 
clauses  of  a  sentence  are  co-ordinated  and  not  subordinated. 
'  Da  '  is  pronounced  with  a  long  a  and  means  '  of  yore  '. 

'^  '  Tsari/  '  to  guard  against,'  &c.,  has  also  a  form  '  tsaro  '  with 
a  cognate  meaning,  e.  g.  '  Wurin  tsaro ',  '  a  watch  tower.' 

2*^  '  Tammat '  is  an  Arabic  word  signifying  '  it  is  finished '. 
The  Hausa  mallam  dearly  loves  to  intersperse  a  little  Arabic,  as 
a  proof  of  his  learning. 

The  Latin  /inis  occupies  exactly  the  same  place  in  English 
literature. 


21 


MOSES   AND   HIS   MISSION 

Woni  yai'o  allah  ya  halitashi  chikkin  kogo  dushi  ^ 
ya  yi  shekara  arbain  chikkiii  kogo  shiiia  roko  allah 
kulliim  dene  da  rana  ^  shina  salla  ubangiji  ^  allah  ya 
aiko  annabi  miisa  "*  taffi  ka  duba  chikkiii  kogo  dushi 
akoi  woni  yaro  minene  shina  yi  annabi  ya  zo  }'a 
isheshi  ya  yi  masa  salama  bai  amsa  ba  har  ya  gammii 
salla  tukun  ^  ya  amsa  masa  ya  kirra  sunansa  annabi 
musa  ya  tambayeshi  ya  che  wanene  ya  sanasheka  ^ 
sunana  ya  che  masa  ubangizi  allah  wonda  ya  sana- 
sheka akoi  mutum  chikkin  kogo  dushi  shine  ya  sana- 

This  piece  impresses  the  importance  of '  Taking  a  Wife  '  as  a 
duty  to  be  carried  out.  The  Koran  explicitly  enjoins  this  duty 
in  more  than  one  place.  In  countries  where  the  inroads  of  war 
and  pestilence  tend  to  diminish  the  population,  the  begetting  of 
children  is  naturally  of  primary  importance,  and  this  condition 
is  peculiarly  applicable  to  West  Africa. 

^  '  Kogo  dushi,'  a  cave.  *  Kogo  '  is  used  of  the  lair  of  beasts 
of  prey. 

^  '  Derre  da  rana,'  '  night  and  day.'  The  Hausa  order  of  the 
word  differs  from  the  English,  'day  and  night.' 

^  '  Ubangiji,'  literally  '  house-father'.  The  feminine  is  '  uwo- 
rigijia  ',  '  mistress.'       As  an  epithet  it  is  chiefly  applied  to  Allah. 

^  '  Annabi  musa,'  '  the  prophet  jNIoses,'  whose  law,  according 
to  Mahomet,  was  corrupted  by  the  Jews. 

^  '  Tukun  '  or  '  tukunna ',  and  in  its  secondary  form '  tukunche ', 
is  much  used  idiomatically.  '  Not  as  yet,  since,  before  '  are  its 
chief  meanings,  i.  e.  '  Ban  ganneshi  ba  tukun ',  '  I  have  not  seen 
him  as  yet.' 

^  *  Sanasheka.'  Other  casual  forms  of  the  verb  '  sanni ',  '  to 
know,'  are,  in  a  religious  sense,  '  sanasda,'  '  sanda,'  '  sanaswa.' 


22  HAUSA    READINGS 

sheni  sunanka  :  ya  che  masa  mliicne  kana  yi  wiirlnga  "^ 
ya  che  shekarana  arbaiii  ina  chikkin  kogo  dushi  ina 
roko  allali :  taffi  ka  fadda  allah  ina  chikkin  mutane 
aljanna  ^  ko  ina  chikkin  mutane  wiita  annabi  ya  taffi 
wurin  ubangizi  allah  ya  faddi  masa  ya  che  ka  fadda 
masa  shina  chikkin  mutane  wuta  annabi  musa  ya 
komo  baya  shina  kuka  har  ya  zo  wurin  yaro  :  yaro  ya 
che  masa  yaka^  beri  kuka  kowane  labari  ka  ji  zo  ka 
gaya  mini  :  ya  che  masa  ubangizi  allah  ya  che  kana 
chikkin  wuta  yaro  ya  che  masa  taffi  ka  faddi  ma 
ubangizi  allah  tunda  ni  ke  ^*^  ban  yi  sata  dadai  ban  yi 
kwasshe  dadai  kuma  hario  ^^  ban  yi  zina  dadai  ^^ :  ban 

■^  '  Wuringa.'  '  Nga,' feminine  'rga,  Iga',  is  used  a  suffix  to 
nouns  in  a  demonstrative  sense. 

^  'Aljanna'  is  the  paradise  of  Mahomet.  The  word  is  derived 
from  the  Arabic  ajl».,  '  garden.'  According  to  orthodox  Moham- 
medans paradise  is  situated  above  the  seven  heavens  and  next 
under  the  throne  of  God.  It  contains  the  wonderful  tree  of  happi- 
ness called  '  Tuba ' ;  the  river  Kauchara  mentioned  in  Speciuiens  of 
Haiisa  Literature^  A.  49  ;  and  the  Houris  made  not  of  clay  but  of 
pure  musk,  besides  many  other  wonderful  and  delightful  objects. 

^*  'Yaka.'  It  is  seldom  in  Hausa  that  the  pronoun  is  found 
after  the  verb,  although  there  are  cases,  i.  e.  '  jeka ',  note  ■*■*, 
'  Waka.'  Also  in  '  Zani  Kano ',  &c. :  '  I  am  going  to  Kano.' 
Also  in  the  passive  voice  of  all  verbs.  It  is  probable  that 
'  yaka '  is  a  defective  verb. 

^^  '  Tunda  ni  ke,'  '  since  I  had  my  being.'  '  Tun  '  or  '  tunda  ' 
before  a  negative  means  '  before '  ;  i.  e.  '  Tun  bai  mutu  ba ', 
'  Before  he  died.' 

^^  '  Hario,'  '  again,  still.'  It  is  probably  compounded  of  two 
words 'har', 'until,' and  'yau',  'to-day.';  i.e.  'Hario  ba  ka  yishi', 
'  even  now,  you  have  not  done  it,'  or  'still,  you  have  not  done  it '. 

^'  '  Dadai '  with  the  negative  means  '  never  '. 


MOSES   AND    HIS   MISSION  23 

yi  munafuchi  ba  dadai  domin  hakkanan  ^ '  kadda  shi  sa 
woni  chikkin  wuta  sai  ni^^:  annabi  ya  taffi  wurin 
allah  ya  fadda  masa  allah  ya  che  don  mi  bai  yi  aure 
ba  :  domin  shina  mutum  kirki  ^^  :  domin  hakkanan  : 
kana  chikkin  aljanna  tammat. 

^^  '  Domin  hakkanan,'  '  for  this.' 

1*  '  Kadda  shi  sa  woni  chikkin  wiita  sai  ni,'  This  is  not  easy 
to  translate,  although  the  meaning  is  clear.  The  sense  is  '  don't 
let  him  treat  any  one  else  so  unjustly '. 

^^  '  Kirki,'  '  excellent,  proper,'  is  generally  applicable  to  or 
used  of  a  human  being.  No  better  compliment  can  be  paid 
than  to  be  described  as  '  kirki '. 


THE  HAWK,  THE  DOVE,  AND  THE  PROPHET 

Woni  annabi  sunansa  yiisufii  ubanglji  allah  ya  aunashi 
ko  wotakila  shina  tsoro  allah  ya  aiko  malika  jibirailu  ^ 
ya  maisheshi  ^  shirua  ^  ya  dauka  malika  michailu  *  ya 

^  'Jibirailu'  is  the  Archangel  Gabriel,  the  messenger  of  God 
and  the  angel  of  revelation  ;  but  to  the  Jews,  their  enemy  and 
messenger  of  wrath  and  punishment.  Among  the  chief  acts 
attributed  to  him  were  the  teaching  of  husbandry  to  Adam  after 
his  fall  and  the  revealing  of  the  Koran  to  Mohammed.  He 
assisted  at  the  burial  of  Moses. 

^  '  Maisheshi,'  'transformed  him.'  The  word  '  maida',  '  turn,' 
*  change,'  and  its  derivative  forms  '  maishe  ', '  mayes,'  '  mayerda,' 
'mayesda,'  is  of  wide  application,  and  in  combination  with  other 
words  possesses  great  usage  idiomatically  ;  e.  g. 

'  Ya  maida  kansa,'  '  he  professes.' 

'  Ya  maida  kamna  gareta,'  '  he  liked  him,' 

'  Ya  mayerda  maganna,'  '  he  answered.' 

*  Ka  mayes,'  '  bring  back.' 

'  Ina  mayesda  wani,'  '  I  become  like  so  and  so.' 


24  HAUSA    READINGS 

maisheshi  kurlchia  su  duka  suna  bin  junansu  shirua 
shina  son  shi  kama  kurichia  su  duka  suna  guddu  ^  har 
sun  zo  wurin  annabi  shirua  shina  faddi  ma  annabi  dau 
allah  dau  annabi  ^  muhamadu  abinchinashi  ne  kurichia"' 
kadda  ka  bcr  shi  taffi  yau  kwana  ukku  ban  chi  komi 
ba  ^  kurichia  ta  faddi  ma  annabi  yusufu  kaddan  ka  ber 


^  '  Shirua,'  '  hawk,'  pkiral  '  shiruoyi '.  It  is  here  treated  as 
masculine  in  opposition  to  the  rule  of  gender.  This,  for  the 
purposes  of  this  fable  only,  may  be  explained  in  the  sense  of 
contrast  between  the  dove,  the  gentle  feminine  type,  and  the 
hawk,  the  strong  masculine  bird  of  prey. 

*  'Michailu'  is  the  Archangel  Michael,  the  friend  of  the 
Jews,  and  their  messenger  of  peace  and  plenty  as  we  know  from 
Scripture  (Dan.  xii.  i).  In  Mussulman  tradition  he  was  fre- 
quently employed  by  Allah  on  errands  to  the  Patriarchs  and 
Prophets.     He  also  was  present  at  the  burial  of  Moses. 

^  'Guddu'  is  the  usual  expression  for  '  to  fly'.  The  strictly 
precise  word  is  '  Kadda '. 

''  '  Dau  allah  dau  annabi.*  '  Dau  '  is  a  contracted  form  of 
the  verb  'dauka',  'take  up,  take  hold  of,'  &;c. :  the  word  is 
capable  of  many  idiomatic  usages,  and  in  this  sense  may  best  be 
translated  as  '  taking  as  a  witness,  swearing  by '. 

^  '  Abinchina  shi  ne  kurichia,'  '  the  dove  is  my  lawful  prey.' 

^  'Yau  kwana  ukku  ban  chi  komi  ba,'  '  it  is  now  three  days 
since  I  have  eaten  anything '  ;  lit.  '  to-day  (for)  three  days  I 
have,  &.C.'  '  Komi ' ;  the  indefinite  pronouns  are  formed  from 
the  particle  '  ko  '  (which  fills  the  place  of  the  English  'ever'  in 
'  whoever  ',  &c.)  prefixed  to  the  interrogative  pronouns  ;  e.g. 


Also 


mi 

what. 

komi 

whatever. 

yau she 

when. 

koyaushe 

whenever. 

wa 

who. 

kowa 

whoever. 

kaka 

how. 

kokaka 

however. 

enna 

where. 

koenna 

wherever. 

THE   HAWK,    DOVE,   AND   PROPHET     25 

shirua  ya  kassheni  ni  da  kal  mu  yi  sheria  rana  gobe'' 
shiriia  shi  kuma  ya  faddi  hakkanan  annabi  yusufu  ya 
rassa  abinda  shina  chikki  ^^  sai  ya  dauka  wuka  ya 
yenka  chiniyansa  ya  ba  shirua  ya  chi  bar  ya  koshi  ya 
sakke  ^^  kurichia  ta  taffi  shirua  kuma  ya  taffi  ubangiji 
allah  ya  che  gaskia  yusufu  shina  tsorona  kwarai  aliah 
ya  worike  chiniyansa  ta  ke  ^^  tammat. 

®  '  Rana  gobe,'  '  Day  of  Judgement.'  '  Maigobe  '  is  an  epithet 
applied  to  Allah. 

'"  '  Ya  rassa  abinda  shina  chikki,'  'the;  cupboard  was  bare' ; 
lit.  'he  lacked  the  thing  he  usually  had  within'. 
'  Sai,'  '  so  what  does  he  do  but  (take  a  knife).' 

^^  '  Ya  sakke,'  'he  released.'  See  note*',  'Letter  from  a 
Mallam.' 

^■•^  '  Ke  '  is  a  way  of  pronouncing  '  kai ',  as  '  se '  is  found  for 
'sai'.  The  diphthong  sinks  to  a  diphthongal  vowel.  'Kai' 
originally  meant  'bring',  then  reflexively 'bring  oneself,  then 
'reach',  then  'to  be  enough,  well,  to  do';  e.g.  '  Ba  shi  kai 
ba ',  '  it  will  not  do.'  Translate  '  Allah  healed  his  leg  satis- 
factorily '. 

THE  BOY  AND  THE  LION  CUB 

Woni  mutum  maihalbi  ne  shina  da  mache  mai- 
chikki  ^   kulluni  mijinta  ya  taffi  halbi  ba  shi  kasshe 

The  above  is  a  favourite  story  with  the  Hausa  boys,  and  in  all 
stoiy-telling  competitions  it  appears  sooner  or  later.  There  are 
numerous  minor  errors  of  grammar  in  the  manuscript,  and  these 
have  been  mentioned  in  the  footnotes. 

'  '  Maichikki'  is  used  of  a  woman  who  is  encemte^  and  is  an 
example  of  the  noun-agent,  fonned  by  prefixing  '  mai ',  plural 
*  masu  ',  to  verbs  and  substantives. 


26  HAUSA   READLXGS 

komi  kaddan  ya  zo  gidda  matasa  tana  zagensa  - : 
kuUiim  hakkanaii  rana  gudda  ya  kasshe  begua"  ya 
karie  gainye  dayawa  ya  daure  begua  ya  dauka  ya 
kawo  gidda,  matasa  tana  murna  ta  wanke  tukunia 
mijinta  ya  che  mata  tashi  ki  kunche*  gainye  akoi 
nama  chikki  ta  tashi  tana  kunche  gainye  har  ta  ganni 
begua  zata  kama  sai  ya  tashi  shina  guddu  mijinta  ya 
che  mata  bishi  koenna  ya  taffi  ki  kawo  mini  abinatana 
binsa  har  chikkin  daji  begua  ya  bache  mata^:  tana 
kuka  ta  zamna  gusun  rimi  ^  chikkinta  shina  murda  "^ 

-  '  Tana  zagensa,'  '  was  ahvays  chiding  him/  The  verb 
'  zage  '  has  the  meaning  '  to  abuse '  in  a  very  strong  sense. 

^  '  Begua,'  meaning  '  porcupine ',  is  treated  in  this  piece  as 
mascuhne,  in  opposition  to  the  rule  of  grammar  which  lays 
down,  with  certain  exceptions,  that  nouns  with  the  termination 
'a  '  are  feminine.     See  note  ^^,  '  Story  of  Joseph.' 

*  *  Kunche.'  In  the  IMSS.  this  word,  which  means  'to 
unbind ',  '■  to  loosen,'  is  written  also  in  the  '  Story  of  Joseph  ' 
[note  ^%  but  with  a  totally  different  meaning.  The  waiter  has 
confused  the  verb  '  kunche  ', '  to  loosen,'  with  the  verb  '  kumche  ', 
'  to  tighten,'  &c.,  the  sounds  of  which  approximate. 

^  '  Ya  bache  mata.'  This  is  not  to  be  translated  '  he  lost  the 
w^oman ',  but  in  an  intransitive  sense,  namely,  '  he  was  lost  to 
her.'  '  Bache,'  like  many  other  Hausa  verbs,  may  be  used  both 
transitively  and  intransitively. 

^  '  Rimi '  is  the  silk-cotton  tree,  ahvays  numerous  on  the  site 
of  large  towns,  whose  importance,  in  fact,  may  be  judged  from 
a  distance,  according  to  the  number  and  size  of  them.  In  the 
orchard-like  country,  north  of  the  forest  belt,  they  may  be  dis- 
cerned from  a  great  distance,  and  the  sight  puts  a  new  heart  into 
tired  carriers.  In  the  Gold  Coast  Hinterland  the  site  of  those 
towns  razed  by  Samory  is  indicated  solely  by  the  '  rimi '  which 
still  stands  there.    As  a  curious  fact,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  in 


THE  BOY  AND  THE  LION  CUB   2; 

ta  haifu  ba  ta  sanni  ba  akoi  zaki  ^  ta  haifu  woje  daia 
mache  ta  haifu  woje  daia  har  yaro  ya  yi  wayo  :  dan  zaki 
ya  yi  vvayo^ ;  dan  zaki  ya  ganni  dan  mutum  ya  che  masa 
wanene  ya  kawoka  nan  :  ya  che  masa  uwata  ta  haifeni 
nan  :  ya  che  dan  mutum  fadda  ma  uwaka  kadda  ta  taffi 
chikkin  daji  da  nesa  uwata  tana  kasshe  mutane  yaro  ya 
che  masa  to  ya  yi  keau  ^^  dan  zaki  ya  dauka  dan  mutum 
aboki  ^^  su  duka  suna  wasa  ^^  lokachinda  uwansu  ^^  sun 
taffi  kiwo  chikkin  daji  kuHum  hakkanan  rana  gudda  sun 
gammu  chikkin  daji  uwan  zaki  ta  kasshe  uwan  mutum 

the  stories  of  the  '  Hitopadesha'  of  Sanscrit  legend,  the  silk- 
cotton  tree  occupies  the  same  place  as  in  Hausa  folk-tales.  The 
Sanscrit  word  is  '  zhalmali-taru  ' — '  taru  '  meaning  'tree  '. 

"^  '  Chikkinta  shina  murda,'  '  she  began  to  feel  the  pains  of 
labour.'  '  Murda'  properly  means  '  to  strangle,  throttle,  gripe/ 
hence  its  significance  in  the  present  instance.  It  is  also 
commonly  used  of  medicine  which  gives  griping  pains. 

^  'Zaki.'  'Zakainya'  would  be  expected  here.  This  is  part 
and  parcel  of  the  carelessness  of  the  Hausas  in  their  treatment 
of  the  feminine,  not  only  in  writing  but  also  in  conversation. 

^  '  Wayo,'  which  properly  means  '  cunning,  skill ',  is  used 
of  children  who  have  reached  years  of  discretion.  The  meanings 
are  cognate. 

^°  '  Ya  yi  keau.'  This  is  a  common  expression  of  assent 
or  approval,  especially  in  receiving  orders  or  instructions  from 
a  superior.     The  English  equivalent  is  '  very  good  '. 

"  '  Ya  dauka  dan  mutum  aboki,'  '  he  took  the  human  child 
for  his  friend.'  An  idiomatic  use  of  '  dauka ',  of  which  there  are 
many  such. 

^^  '  Suna  wasa,'  '  they  used  to  play  together.' 

^^  'Uwansu'  should  be  'uwayensu'.  It  is  only  when  a 
following  numeral  particularizes  the  number  that  the  plural  form 
is  dispensed  with.  '  Uwasu  biu '  would  be  correct  and  good  Hausa. 


38  HAUSA   READINGS 

ta  kawo  gidda  dan  mutum  bai  ganni  uwasa  ba  shina 
kuka  bar  gaii  ya  waye ^"^  dan  zaki  ya  zo  wurinda  dan 
mutum  shina  kuka  ya  tambayeshi  mi  ya  faru  kana 
kuka  tun  jia  ban  ganni  uwata^'  ba :  dan  zaki  ya 
kirrashi  zo  mu  taffi  mu  ganni  uwata  ta  kawo  woni 
mutum  ^^ :  yaro  ya  bishi  ya  ganni  uwasa  ya  fadi  bissa 
uwasa  shina  kuka  dan  zaki  ya  fadda  masa  yi  kurum 
beri  kuka:  ni  kuma  na^'  kasshe  uwana  mu  duka  mu 
zamma  daia :  kuma  dan  zaki  ya  taffi  ya  kasshe  uwasa 
ya  kawo  gidda  ya  kirra  dan  mutum  ya  godda  masa  ya 
che  mu  duka  mu  zamma  marayu  har  yaro  ya  yi  girima : 

**  '  Gari  ya  waye'  is  the  dawn  of  day,  literally  'the  town  is 
brightening'  in  the  sense  of  objects  becoming  distinct.  In  this 
sense  '  gari '  is  held  to  mean  the  sky,  the  demesne  of  God,  but 
it  is  probable  that  this  is  a  poetical  extension  of  the  original  idea. 

*  Waye '  is  used  if  an  explanation  is  wanted,  i.  e.  '  Ka  waye 
mini ',  '  explain  to  me.' 

'  To  interpret '  is  usually  rendered  '  juye  maganna'. 

^^  Throughout  this  piece  'uwana'  and  'uwata'  are  used 
somewhat  indiscriminately.  '  Uwata '  is  of  course  the  only 
correct  form. 

'  Dan  uwana,'  which  seems  to  offend  the  rule,  is,  however, 
right,  owing  to  the  predominance  of  the  masculine  element. 
It  is  hard  to  generalize  on  this,  for  again  'abokin  taffiata'  is 
correct,  and  not  '  abokin  taffiana  '. 

^^  '  Mutum'  means  in  this  place  'a  human  being',  the  plural 
form  of  which  is  '  mutane '.  '  Maza '  is  the  plural  of  'miji', 
'  man,'  as  opposed  to  '  woman  '. 

^^  'Na'  is  here  the  form  of  the  personal  pronoun  used  in 
expressing  the  future.  It  is  pronounced  with  the  voice  some- 
what raised,  and  with  distinct  emphasis.  It  is  not  easy  to 
decide  whether  or  no  it  is  a  contraction  of  'nia',  the  future 
prefix  formed  by  suffixing  '  a '  to  the  personal  pronoun. 


THE    BOY    AND    THE    LION    CUB       29 

}^a  tambayeshi  garinku  kaddan  yaro  ya  yi  girima 
minene  aiiayi  masa  ya  che  anayi  masa  kachia  :  dan 
zaki  ya  taffi  bissa  hainya  ya  kwanta  har  ya  gaiini 
wanzami  ^^  shina  wuche  ya  kamashi  ya  kawo  wurin 
yaro  ya  che  yi  masa  kachia  wanzami  ya  yi  masa 
kachia  ya  worike :  ya  tambaye  yaro  kaddan  garinku 
yaro  ya  yi  girima  minene  anayi  masa  ya  che  anayi 
masa  aure  ya  taffi  ya  kama  budurua  dian  sariki  bissa 
hainya  kowa  ya  halbe  zaki  ba  shi  samimsa  ^^  har  gari 
duka  ya  tashi  sun  yi  sun  yi  -^^  ba  su  samu  zaki  sarikin 
gari  ya  che  wonda  ya  karba  diata  hanu  ^^  zaki  na 
bashi  shi  yi  aure  :  dan  mutum  ya  zo  ya  karba  yarinia 

'^  'Wanzami'  is  a  'barber'.  He  is  generally  the  person 
employed  for  the  circumcision  of  boys.  Curiously,  circumcision 
is  not  once  alluded  to  in  the  Koran. 

^^  '  Samunsa '  is  an  uncommon  form,  and  '  sameshi '  would 
have  been  expected  ;  of  this  the  following  explanation  is 
tendered.  It  is  well  known  that  the  continuative  forms  of 
the  pronoun,  '  ke,  che,'  &:c.,  take  the  nominal  form  of  the  verb  ; 
but  when  negatived,  as  in  this  place,  the  continuative  gives  place 
to  the  simple  pronoun,  the  nominal  form  of  the  verb  remain- 
ing, however,  unchanged.  This  same  nominal  form  of  the  verb 
negatived,  may  be  noticed  in  No.  3  of  Captain  Merrick's  admir- 
able collection  of  Hausa  proverbs. 

^°  '  Sun  yi  sun  yi.'  The  repetition  here  conveys  an  idea  of 
distribution  or  difference,  as  '  biu  biu  ',  &c.  The  idea  being  that 
'  some  did  one  thing,  some  another '. 

^^  '  Ya  karba  diata  hanu  zaki.'  Notice  the  absence  of  the 
preposition  '  dagga '  before  '  hanu  '.  This  is  very  good  Hausa. 
Curiously,  when  prepositions  are  used  they  are  used  in  abun- 
dance, as,  for  instance,  '  Ya  fitta  dagga  chikkin  gidda.*  But,  as 
Mr.  Miller  observes,  the  best  Hausa  is  to  use  prepositions  as 
little  as  possible. 


30  HAUSA   READINGS 

hanu  zaki :  sarki  ya  yi  mashi  aure  da  ita  kulliim  rana 
aljimua  da  derre  kullum  zaki  shina  zua  giddansa  rana 
gudda  matasa  ta  iskesu  chikkin  dakin  mijinta  mache 
ta  yi  kuwa  mutane  sun  zo  sun  yi  ma  zaki  makami  ^" 
ya  taffi  chikkin  daji  ya  mutu  gari  ya  waye  dan  mutum 
ya  dauka  aska  ya  bishi  chikkin  daji  har  ya  ga  wurinda 
ya  kwanta  shi  kuma  ya  kasshe  kansa  su  duka  sun 
mutu  dagga  baya  kuma  dan  zaki  ya  tashi  ya  ganni 
dan  mutum  shina  kwanche  kassa  ya  yi  masa  magani 
ya  tashi  su  duka  biu  sun  chikka  alkauelinsu  '^  da  babu 
alkaueli  chikkin  dunia  dan  zaki  da  dan  mutum  su  ne 
suka  kawo  -"*  alkaueli  chikkin  dunia :  tammat. 

-^  'Makami'  means  'arms,  or  instruments  of  deadly  harm'. 
It  is  a  noun  of  the  instrument,  derived  from  the  verb  'kama', 
'  to  catch,  seize',  which  has  a  wide  application. 

-^  'Alkaueli,'  a  '  promise  or  agreement'.  The  fable  explains 
that  '  The  Boy  and  the  Lion  Cub '  themselves  introduced  into 
the  world  the  habit  of  regarding  a  promise  as  sacred. 

^*  '  Su  ne  suka  kawo,'  '  it  was  they  who  brought,  these  two 
brought,'  &:c.  Thus,  in  answer  to  the  question,  '  Who  killed 
Cock  Robin,'  the  answer  in  Hausa  would  be  '  Ni  ne  na  kassheshi', 
'  I  killed  Cock  Robin.' 

THE    WRANGLING   WIVES 

Sarki  da  matansa  ^  biu  uworgidda  -  ba  ta  haifu  ba 

^  '  Matansa.'  The  ?i  is  redundant  and  incorrect,  and  the 
word  should  read  '  matatasa,'  '  matatai,'  and  more  commonly 
'  matasa '. 

'-^  'Uworgidda'  is  the  head-wife,  the  mistress  of  the  house. 
The  masculine  form  is  '  ubangiji ',  an  epithet  usually  appHed 
to  Allah.  'Maigidda'  is  the  form  used  in  a  human  sense. 
Other  forms  are  '  uwalgidda  ',  and  with  resolution  '  uworigidda '. 


THE   WRANGLING   WIVES  31 

sai  amaria  ^  ita  ta  haifu  yaya  bin  ta  fitta  ta  taffi  wurin 
wonka  *  uvvorgidda  ta  shigga  chikkiii  daki  wurin  yara 
ta  kwashesu  ta  zuba  bayam  bi'rni  ta  kasshe  kadangari  ' 
biu  ta  kawo  ta  ziibasu  bissa  shimfidda  '^  ta  taffi  wurin 
sarki  ta  fadda  masa  matanka'^  ta  haifu  kadangari  biu 
sarki  ya  yi  fushi  ya  zo  ya  duba  ya  ganni  kadangari  ya 
kirra  dogaraisa^  ya  che  masu  ku  kamata  ku  kasshe 
suka  kamata  suka  boyeta  woni  gidda :  wota  tsofua 
kuma  tana  yawo  bayam  birni  ^  ta  ganni  yara  biu  suna 

^  'Amaria,'  'the  bride 'and  latest  acquisition  to  the  house- 
hold. The  Hausas  repeat  a  proverb,  '  Ango  mijin  amaria.' 
See  note  ^,  '  Fifteen  Proverbs.' 

*  'Wurin  wonka.'  By  this  is  meant  the  ceremonial  ablution 
enjoined  on  all  women  after  child-birth. 

^  'Kadangari,'  'lizard' ;  lit.  'the  crocodile  of  the  town  '. 

•^  'Shimfidda,'  'spread  out,  unroll,'  is  properly  used  with 
'  taberma ',  in  the  sense  of  '  spreading  the  sleeping  mat '.  Here, 
probably  from  the  association  of  ideas,  it  comes  to  mean  '  the 
sleeping  mat'  itself,  i.e.  'a  spread'.  In  the  household  of 
important  men,  there  is  an  ofifice,  the  holder  of  which  is  known 
as  '  Maishimfidda  taberma  ',  and  is  generally  a  foster-brother  of 
his  patron.  Among  the  Ashantis  this  office  holder  is  termed 
'  Okra '  or  '  Soul  of  the  King  '.  If  an  indignity  be  put  on  him  it 
is  tantamount  to  lese  majeste  and  punished  accordingly.  In 
former  days,  on  the  death  of  his  master,  he  would  voluntarily 
accompany  him  to  the  next  world  there  to  fulfil  the  same 
office.     In  council  he  is  seated  at  the  King's  feet. 

'  '  Matanka  '  should  be  '  mata-ka  '  ;  see  note  ^  above. 

^  '  Dogaraisa.'  '  Dogari '  is  a  soldier  of  the  body-guard, 
from  the  verb  '  dogare  ',  '  lean  upon,  rely  on,  trust  in.'  '  Mado- 
gara '  means  '  stay,  prop,'  and  is  specially  applied  to  the  cross- 
bar of  wood  which  secures  the  door. 

^  '  Birni '   is  properly   applied   only   to   gated   cities  ;  '  gari  ' 


32  HAUSA    READINGS 

kunche  ^^  chikkin  haki  ta  kwashesu  ta  kawo  gidda  ta 
bidda  masu  magani  ^^  suna  sha  har  suka  yi  wayo  ^-  har 
suka  yi  girma  tsofua  ta  saye  masu  dowaki  suna  hau  ^^ : 
suna  waka  :  suna  che  mu  yayan  sarki  yayan  masugari  ^^ 
anzubamu  bayam  birni  domin  kishi  ^^ :  sai  suna  yawo  ^^ 
chikkin  gari :  kullum  ^'  hakkanan  suna  yawo  suna  yin 
waka  wata  rana  woni  ya  kawo  ma  sarki  labari  ya  che 
masa  akoi  woddansu  yara  na  yi  tamaha  kamman 
dianka  ne  sarki  ya  che  enna  kammanusu^^:   ya  che 

is  used  of  smaller,  unwalled  towns  ;  '  kauye '  is  the  village  or 
hamlet;  and  lastly  'buka-buka  '  signifies  the  collection  of  grass 
huts,  temporary  erections  raised  on  farms  which  are  a  con- 
siderable distance  from  the  town. 

^®  *  Kunche.'  This  is  difficult.  From  the  MS.  either 
*  kunchi ',  '  crouched  tig'it,  sitting  tight,'  equivalent  to  '  guga  ' 
(see  note^^^, '  Waka  '),  may  be  intended,  or  '  kwanche  ',  '  sleeping, 
lying  down  ' ;  of  the  two  meanings,  the  former  is  preferable, 
having  regard  to  the  context. 

"  '  Magani ' ;  see  note  ^^  '  Waka.' 

12  (  Yi  wayo,'  '  arrived  at  years  of  discretion.' 

^^  '  Suna  hau,'  we  might  here  expect  '  suna  hawa ',  the 
nominal  form  of  the  verb.     See  note^,  '  Questions  and  Answers.' 

^*  *  Masugari,'  '  people  of  importance.'  '  Mainya-mainya  ' 
has  the  same  sense. 

^^  *  Kishi,'  lit.  '  longing  ',  e.g.  '  kishinrua,  kishirua ',  '  thirst.' 
Then  'jealousy',  e.g.  'kishia',  '  either  of  two  wives.' 

^^  '  Sai  suna  yawo,'  '  all  that  they  did,  was  to  parade  the 
town.' 

"  'Kullum'  is  occasionally  written  '  kullun '.     The  motto  of 

the  Gold  Coast  Regiment  is  lSj^  jj^-^- 

'^  '  Enna  kammanusu,'  '  karnmanu,'  is  the  plural  of  '  kamma  ', 
'  likeness,  image.'  The  phrase  may  best  be  translated,  '  wherein 
does  the  likeness  He  ? ' 


THE   WRANGLING    WIVES  ^3 

sarki  ka  berri  gobe  da  safe  na  kalka  ^^  wurlnda  suna  bi 
suna  yawo  sarki  ya  che  da  keau  gari  ya  waye  suka 
taffi  enda  suna  fitta  suka  zamna  har  suka  fitta  suka  yi 
vvaka  :  suka  che  mu  yayan  sarki  mu  yayan  masugari 
anzubamu  bayam  birni  domin  tsanani  kishi "'' :  da 
sarki  ya  ji  hakkanan  ya  zo  gidda  ya  tara  fadawansa^^ 
ya  tambayesu  kaka  mu  yi  mu  sanni  uwan  yara"^ 
fadawansa  suka  che  masa  ka  yi  gangami  ^^  duka 
chikkin  gari  kowache  mache  duka  ta  yi  tuo  ta  kawo 
kofan  sarki  kamman  yara  en  sun  zo :  kowane  abinchi 
wonda  sun  chi  uwansu  ke  nan :  gari  ya  waye  abinchi 
ya  gammu  kofan  sarki  yara  sun  zo  amma  ba  su  chi 
abinchi  kowa  ba  don  babu  na  uwansu  chikki  -*  ba  su 
chi  abinchi  kowa  ba:  woni  mutum  ya  fadda  ma  sarki 
ya  che  akoi  wata  mache  giddanmu  akakirrata  ta  kawo 
tuo  suka  chi  sarki  ya  kama  uworgiddansa  ya  yenkata. 

"  '  Na  kaika/  '  I  will  convey  you.'  See  note  *^,  '  The  Boy  and 
the  Lion  Cub.' 

^^  '  Tsanani  kishi,'  '  the  torment,  sting  of  jealousy.' 

-^  '  Fadawa  '  means  '  courtiers  '  in  a  general  sense,  though 
each  has  his  special  title;  'sarakin  dawaki,'  'galladima,' 
'  sarikin  bayi,'  &c. 

^^  '  Uwan  yara  '  should  read  '  uwal  yara '. 

23  <  Yi  gangami '  or  '  buga  kiddi '  are  cognate  expressions.  In 
Hausaland  the  drummer  is  the  '  town-crier  '.  Towards  evening 
when  all  are  within  their  compounds  he  parades  the  town, 
beating  his  drum  and  crying  his  message. 

^*  '  Don  babu  na  uwansu  chikki,'  '  because  that  of  their 
mother  was  not  included.'  In  Hausa  before  '  na  ',  as  here  used, 
the  dem.onstrative  pronoun  'that,  those' — in  the  English  phrase 
'  that  of '—is  omitted. 


C 


34  HAUSA   READINGS 

THE   LEPER   AND   THE    BLIND    MAN 

WONGA   ALMARA^ 

Labarin  kuturii  da  shi  da  makafo  suka  zamna  wurin 
mahalbe  kullum  ya  kasshe  nama  ^  shina  kawo  masu 
suna  chi  sai  kuturu  shina  gode  mahalbe  makafo  shina 
zagen  kuturu  ^  dong  mi  kana  gode  masa  don  halbe 
babu  wuya  ko  ni  da  kaina  kaddan  na  samu  kore  da 
baka  na  iya  halbe :  kullum  shina  faddi  hakka  rana 
gudda  kuturu  ya  bidda*   masa  kore  da  baka^  suka 

Leprosy  and  blindness  are  too  well  known  in  Hausaland  ;  for 
an  account  of  the  same  and  of  their  organization  under  chosen 
heads  see  Hausaland,  or  1,500  miles  throtfgh  the  Central 
Soudafi,  by  C.  H.  Robinson. 

'  '  Wonga  almara,'  '  this  is  a  fairy  tale.' 

^  '  Nama  '  is  one  of  the  masculines  in  '  a  ' :  e.  g.  '  naman 
shanu,'  'beef.' 

^  One  of  the  difficulties  of  the  language  is  here  illustrated  by 
'shina  gode  mahalbe',  'shina  zagen  kuturu,'  namely,  that  the 
nominal  forms  of  the  verbs  to  be  used  with  the  pronoun  endings 
'  ke,  che,  na,'  such  as 

taffi  taffia  go 

kare  karewa        end 

fitto  fittowa         come  out,  (S:c., 

are  not  found  with  all  verbs.  We  should  here  expect  'shina 
godewa '.  A  complete  list  is  a  desideratum.  See  note  ",  '  The 
Boy  and  the  Lion  Cub  ';  also  note  ^, '  Questions  and  Answers.' 

^  'Bidda,'  from  '  bi  da'.  There  seem  to  be  three  stages  of 
development  of  verbs  with  '  da '. 

{a)  The  '  da '  retains  its  separate  force  and  gives  the  verb  an 


THE   LEPER   AND   THE   BLIND   MAN     35 

tashi  suna  taffia  makafo  ya  dauka  kuturu  shina  ganni 
amma  ba  shi  da  kafifa  ^  suna  taffia  har  sun  kai  chikkin 
daji  sun  ganni  nama  daji  "^  kuturu  ya  fadda  ma  makafo  : 
makafo  shi  ya  halbe  bai  sameshi  ba  kuturu  ya  karba 
kibia  hanunsa  ^  ya  halba  nama  ya  kasshe  makafo  shina 
murna  da  nama  :  suka  fede  nama  dada  suna  biddan 
wuta  ^ 

active  transitive  meaning,  and  the  sense  varies  according 
as  it  is  present  or  absent ;  e.g. 
zo  come 

zo  da  (come  with)  bring, 

taffi  go 

tafifi  da  (go  with)  take  away. 

{b)  As  in   '  kulla  da ',  '  heed/   '  yesda,'  '  throw  away,'  where 
the  '  da '  is  always  employed  and  the  sense  never  varie§. 
{c)  The  '  da '  becomes  thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  root 
and  so  forms  a  really  new  verb,  as  in  '  bidda ',  with  a 
different  accentuation,  and  admitting  one  of  the  nominal 
forms  referred  to  above,  note  ^. 
^  *  Baka,'   a  masculine  in  '  a ',  as   shown   by    its   compound 
'  bakan  gizzo  ',  *  a  rainbow.' 

*  '  Shina  ganni  amma  ba  shi  da  kaffa.'  A  point  of  grammar 
is  here  involved,  viz. :  that  the  continuous  or  present  form  of 
the  pronoun  'shina',  &;c.,  when  negative  assumes  its  simplest 
form  ;  e.g.  not  '  ba  shina  da  kaffa ',  but  '  ba  shi  da  kaffa '.  The 
phrase  '  ina  da  kaffa '  has  an  idiomatic  usage.  If,  for  instance, 
a  carrier  was  told  to  get  along  quickly,  he  might  say  '  Ina  da 
kaffa ',  meaning  that  he  had  a  sore  foot. 

■^  '  Nama  daji.'  This  is  incorrect  and  should  be  '  naman 
daji '. 

^  '  Ya  karba  kibia  hanunsa.'     For  a  note  on  this  use  of  hanu  * 
without  a  preceding  preposition  see  note  -\  *  The  Boy  and  the 
Lion  Cub.' 
^  '  Suka  fede  nama  dada  suna  biddan  wuta,'  '  or  ever  they 

C  2 


'>^6  HAUSA   READINGS 

su  gassa  ^^  nama  ba  su  samu  wuta  ba  kuturu  ya  ganni 
hakorin  dodo  ^^  ya  fadda  ma  makafo  na  gaiini  wuta 
makafo  ya  che  masa  taffi  ka  kawo  wuta  ya  taffi  ya 
ganni  dodo  ya  tambayeshi  mi  kana  bidda  nan  ya 
che  masa  na  samu  nama  shi  ke  nan  ^^  ina  bidda  wuta 
dodo  ya  che  taffi  ka  kawo  nama  akoi  wuta  nan  : 
suka  kwashe  nama  suka  kai  wurin  dodo  ya  karba 
nama  hanunsu  ^^  ya  chi :  makafo  ya  yi  fushi  shina 
fadda  da  kuturu  :  shi  kua  dodo  shina  so  shi  chisu 
kuma  shi  kara^*  da  nama:   makafo  ya  guddu  shina 

skinned  the  game,  they  searched  for  firewood.'     For  'dada'  cf. 

Specimeiis  of  Haiisa  Liter atiwe,  C.  7.     Cf.  Dan.  vi.  24  for  the 

English  idiom  we  have  used  in  translating  '  dada '. 

Concerning  '  biddan  wuta '  and  the   reason  of  the  final  *  n  ' 

see  above,  notes  ^  *. 

^•^    '  Su  gassa,'  '  in  order  to  roast.'     This   simple  combination 

of  pronoun  and  verb  is  the  proper  one  to  be  employed  in  this 

sense  of  purpose.     In  such   and   similar  cases  the  pronouns 

are : — 

Singtilar.  Plural. 

1.  en,  ni  mu 

2.  ka,  ki  ku 

3.  shi,  ta  su 

^^  *  Dodo '  is  the  bogie  man  of  the  Hausas.  He  is  an  evil 
spirit  who,  at  nightfall,  waylays  the  passer-by  by  springing  on 
to  his  shoulders  from  behind,  out  of  the  forks  of  trees.  This 
is  only  one  phase  of  his  character. 

^^  '  Shi  ke  nan,'  *  that  is  it,  our  case.'  '  Ina  bidda  wuta '  should 
be  '  ina  biddan  wuta '. 

^2  '  Hanunsu.'  Notice  the  absence  of  any  preposition,  and 
refer  to  note  ^,  '  The  Boy  and  the  Lion  Cub.' 

^*  '  Kara,'  '  to  add  to,  to  increase.'  Translate,  *  that  he  might 
add  to  his  larder.'     See  note  ^'^,  '  The  Wedded  Pair.' 


THE   LEPER    AND    THE   BLIND   MAN     37 

kewaya  har  ya  komo  chikkin  giddan  dodo :  sunka 
sakke  tashi  ^^  shi  da  kuturu  sun  guddu  suna  chikkin 
taffia^^  makafo  ya  bache  hainya  ^'  ya  fada  chikkin 
rami  sai  ^^  idanunsa  ya  budc  ya  fitta  shina  murna :  ya 
yi  taffia  har  ya  kai  ^^  giddansu  ya  tara  makafi  ^^  duka 
ya  karba  kurdi  hanunsu  ^^  ya  kaisu  wurin  rami  su  duka 
sun  fada  chikkin  rami  idon  kowa  ya  bude :  shi  kuma 
ya  che  zani  kuma  fada  chikkin  rami :  idanuna  shi  kuma 


^^  '  Sakke  tashi,'  '  they  started.'  See  note  ^  '  Letter  from 
a  Mallam.' 

^°  *  Suna  chikkin  taffia '  implies  that  they  were  actually  in 
the  midst  of  their  journey.  The  expression  is  much  used  in 
narrative. 

^■^  *  Ya  bache  hainya.'  This  verb  '  bache '  is  also  used  in- 
transitively ;  e.g.  *  Na  ji  kun  bache/  '  I  heard  you  were  lost.' 
A  third  usage  also  occurs  in  the  story  of  '  The  Boy  and  the 
Lion  Cub  ',  note  ^ 

^^  'Sai'  in  this  sense,  'except,'  is  seen  also  in  the  English 
phrase,  '  What  happened  but  that  (his  eyes  were  opened).' 
A  similar  brachylogy  is  found  in  the  English  assertive : 
'  if  his  eyes  didn't  open  ! '  * 

^^  '  Kai  '  has  here  a  neuter  or  reflexive  sense,  '  brought 
himself,  came  to,  reached.'  In  the  next  line  it  is  seen  used 
transitively. 

"°  '  Makafi,'  plural  of  '  makafo ',  '  blind  man.' 

Other  instances  of  plural  in  '  i '  are  :  — 


tsofo 

tsofi 

old  man. 

bako 

baki 

stranger. 

bawa 

bayi 

slave. 

kasa 

kaji 

hen. 

"^  '  Hanunsu,'  see  note  ",  above. 


38  HAUSA   READINGS 

bude  da  ya  fada  chikkin  rami  ido  ya  kuma  rufewa  ^- : 

tarn  mat. 

^-  '  Rufewa '  is  the  nominal  form  of  the  verb  '  rufe,  rufi  ',  '  to 
shut,'  &:c.  The  blind  man's  tragedy  strikingly  reminds  us  of 
the  final  catastrophe  of  '  She '. 


THE   WEDDED    PAIR 

Woni  mutum  da  shi  da  matansa  ^  suka  tashi  zasu  ^ 
garin  uwaii  matansa  "  zashi  gaida  *  sarakuwansa '' : 
suna  chikkin   taffia  har  suka  yi   lokko^   sun   zamna 

In  this  piece  errors  of  grammar,  especially  with  reference  to 
the  feminine  possessive,  are  rather  frequent  and  have  been  in- 
dicated in  the  footnotes.  Hausa  writing  is  not  yet  extensively 
used,  its  place  being  supplied  by  Arabic,  which  occupies,  in 
fact,  the  same  position  as  did  the  Church  Latin  of  the 
mediaeval  days.  The  use  of  written  Hausa  is,  however,  in- 
creasing rapidly. 

^  '  Matansa.'     Incorrect  and  should  be  'mata-sa'. 

^  '  Zasu.'  For  a  note  on  this  word,  used  as  here  in  its 
original  sense,  see  note  ^  '  Waka.' 

^  '  Uwan  matansa'  is  incorrect  for  '  uwal  mata-sa',  vide 
Lecture  Notes  (W.  H.  Brooks  and  L.  H.  Nott),  p.  7. 

^  'Gaida,'  'greet,  salute,'  has  other  forms,  i.e.  '  gaishe,' 
'  cause  to  be  saluted.'     The  nominal  form  is  '  gaisua '. 

^  '  Sarakuwansa  ' :  read  '  sarakuwa-sa  '. 

"  '  Suka  yi  lokko,'  '  they  came  to  a  halt.'  '  Lokko '  is 
more  especially  used  of  a  temporary  halting-place  for  carriers. 

"'  'Dama'  or  'dame',  'mix,  stir.'  It  is  the  same  word  as 
'  dame  ',  '  perplex,  annoy,  humbug.'  This  latter  sense  is  easily 
derivable  from  the  original  meaning. 


THE   WEDDED   PAIR  39 

matansa  ta  dama  '  masa  fura  ^  ya  sha  ya  regge  saura  ^ 
chikkin  kworia :  mijinta  ya  ji  motsi  chikkin  daji  ya  yi 
kirra  babu  wonda  ya  amsa  sai  ya  ganni  kai  babu  mutum 
sai  kai  lokachinda  kai  ya  isso  ^^  wurinsa  ya  che  masa 
ga  ni  ya  che  masa  taffo  ka  sha  fura  ya  dauka  fura  ya 
sha  mijiii  mata  ya  tashi  shina  taffia  kai  shiiia  binsu  ya 
che  masa  koma  baya  kai  ya  che  babu  na  ^^  biku  har 
vvurinda  zaku  matansa^-  ta  che  masa  bershi  shina 
binsu  har  sun  yi  taffia  kwana  ukku  tukun  sun  kai  ^" 
wurin  gulbi  kai  ya  che  masa  ba  ni  iya  shigga  chikkin 
rua :  daukeni  ka  sa  chikkin  wondonka  ya  che  babu 
matansa  ta  che  masa  daukeshi  ka  sa  chikkin  wandonka 
kaddan  mun  fitta  chikkin  rua  ka  ajeshi  kassa  ^*  ya 
daukeshi  ya  sa  chikkin  wondonsa  har  sun  ketara  gulbi 
ya  che  kai  fitta  chikkin  wando  kai  ya  che  babu  ya 
bershi  har  sun  kai  garin  sarakuwalsa  ambasu  masabki  ^^ 
da  abinchi  sunka  chi  hario  kai  ya  che  shi  bai  koshi  ba 
mijinta  ya  che  masa  kadda  ka  yi  mini  abin  kumia 
giddan  sarakuwata  ya   che  masa  faddi    ba  ka  koshi 

^  '  Fura/  a  semi-liquid  mess  made  of  various  grains ;  in  great 
use  as  a  food. 

^  '  Ya  regge  saura/.  '  he  diminished  the  contents  by  a  half.' 

1°  '  Isso/  '  meet,  arrive  at/  &c.,  is  from  '  issa ',  of  which  another 
form  is  '  ishe  '.     See  note  ',  '  Waka.' 

^1  '  Na.'  This  perhaps  is  a  contraction  of  '  nia ',  the  form  of 
the  personal  pronoun  used  in  expressing  the  future. 

^-  '  Matansa  ' :  read  '  mata-sa  '. 

^^  '  Sun  kai/  '  they  reached,  came  to.' 

'*  *  Ka  ajeshi  kassa/  '  put  him  down.' 

'*  '  Masabki/  '  inn,  lodging,  caravanserai/  from  '  sabka  ', 
'  unload,'  as  donkeys,  &.C.,  at  the  end  of  a  journey. 


40  HAUSA   READINGS 

ba  kaddaii  ba  ka  faddi  ba  na  chije  gwoiwanka^^ 
naniiji  ya  faddi  kaddan  kaddan  ^^  ya  che  masa 
faddi  da  karifi :  matansa  ta  taffi  chikkin  kasua  ta 
sayo  ^^  masa  abinchi  ta  bashi  ya  chi  bar  ya  koshi  ya 
yi  kwana  namiji  ya  tube  wandonsa  gam  mi  ^^  da 
shi  duka  ya  tashi  shi  da  matansa  suka  guddu  suna 
taffia  chikkin  derre  har  gari  ya  waye  kai  ya  falka  bai 
gansu  ba  ya  yi  kirra  namiji  bai  amsa  ba  fulansa  ya 
amsa  matansa  ta  che  debbe  fula  ^^  ka  yer  ^^  ya  debbe 
ya  yer:  ya  kuma  ^^  ya  kirrashi  bai  amsa  ba  rigansa  ^" 
ya  amsa  ya  tube  ya  yer :  ya  kirrasu  wando  ya  amsa 
ya  tube  ya  yer  ya  kirrasu  takobi  ya  amsa  ya  dauka  ya 

^^  '  Gwoiwa,'  *  scrotum.' 

^'  'Ya  faddi  kaddan  kaddan,'  'he  spoke  softly.'  'Small- 
small  '  in  coast  English. 

^^  '  Sayo.'  The  terminal  '  o '  here  infers  that  he  returned 
after  buying.     See  note  ^,  '  Waka.' 

'^  '  Gammi,'  '  together  with,'  from  '  gamma  ',  'join.' 

-°  'Fula'  is  used  in  the  Gold  Coast  and  Hinterland  for  any 
head-covering  other  than  the  '  garumfa '  or  '  malafa '. 

-^  '  Yer,'  '  throw  away.'  Other  forms  are  '  yes  '  and  even 
'yesda,'  e.g.  'Sun  yesda  dunia.'  See  Specimens  of  Hausa 
Literature,  B.  89. 

-^  '  Kuma.'  This  verb,  a  form  of  '  koma ',  '  return,'  is  one  of 
those  which  modify  other  verbs,  as  *  kara ',  '  tara,'  '  rikka,' 
'  rigaya.'  These  must  be  translated  by  adverbs.  This  verb  at 
last  dies  down  to  a  mere  particle  in  '  kuma ',  '  again,'  in  which 
form  it  is  met  with  a  few  lines  below  in  this  piece. 

^^  '  Riga '  is  the  loose  surplice-like  garment,  without  sleeves, 
and  usually  embroidered  at  the  neck.  It  is  the  badge  of  Islam 
on  the  West  Coast.  To  '  sa  riga  '  is  the  great  ambition  of  the 
negro  convert,  even  though  his  knowledge  does  not  extend 
beyond  '  Allah  akbar  '. 


THE   WEDDED    PAIR  4^ 

yer :  namiji  ya  koma  tsirara  -^ :  ya  kirra  matansa  kuma 
ba  ta  amsa  ba  kayanta  ta  amsa  ta  sabka  ta  aje  ya 
kirrata  kuma  zannenta  ya  amsa  ta  tube  ta  yer  ya 
kirrata  mukurunta  ^^  ta  amsa  ta  tube  ita  kuma  ^^  ta 
zamma  tsirara  :  su  duka  su  zamma  bissa  hainya  har  ya 
isshesu  ya  basu  kayansu:  suna  taffia  har  ya  kaisu 
garinsu  ya  dauka  ya  ba  sarikin  garinsu  shina  murna 
ya  aikesu  su  yi  itache  su  kawo  shi  daffasu  da  shi  da 
suka  taffi  chikkin  daji  sun  ganni  darni  gizzo  suna  yin 
itache  gizzo  ya  gansu  ya  che  masu  wanene  ya  aikeku 
suka  che  masa  sarikin  kai  shi  ne  ya  aikomu  mu  yi 
itache  mu  kawo  shi  daffamu  da  shi  gizzo  ya  che  masu 
ku  mutane  dunia  kaddan  mutum  ya  yi  maku  rana  ku 
kan  yi  masa  derre  -'^  suka  che  masa  ba  mu  yi  maka 
derre  ba  ya  che  masu  da  keau  :  ya  daura  dokinsa 
sirdi  ya  hau  da  kulkinsa  ya  taffi  da  su  chikkin  garin 
kai   ya  isshesu  sun  taru  suna  wasa  da  murna  don  sun 

"*  '  Ya  koma  tsirara,' '  he  returned  naked.'  His  garments  had 
betrayed  him  by  speaking.  This  is  not  a  new  idea,  the 
'speech  of  the  garments',  for  in  Mussulman  tradition,  when 
Adam  yielded  to  Eve's  temptation  in  the  garden,  his  heavenly 
raiment  fell  from  him  and  'his  garments  reproached  him'. 
Also,  regarding  the  '  head '  ;  in  the  Targum  of  the  Jews, 
Laban's  image  worshipped  by  him  was  the  head  of  a  man, 
which  '  spake  to  him  and  told  him  oracles '. 

-'  'Mukuru,'  'veil.' 

^^  '  Ita  kuma.'  This  is  the  particle  form  to  which  the  verb 
dwindles  as  mentioned  at  the  end  of  note  ^^  above. 

-■^  '  Kaddan  mutum  ya  yi  maku  rana  ku  kan  yi  masa  derre.' 
A  common  proverbial  expression,  implying,  *  Do  not  repay  good 
with  evil/  or  *  One  good  turn  deserves  another  '. 


42  HAUSA   READINGS 

same  mutaiie  zasu  chi :  gizzo  ya  samesu  da  kulklnsa 
ya  kakasshesu  ~^  duka  :  tammat. 

'^^  '  Kakasshesu/    '  exterminated    them.'      The    redupHcation 
intensifies  the  original  meaninjr. 


QUESTIONS    AND   ANSWERS 

LABARI   WALr   ALLAH  I    SUN  ANSA  ABU 
MUHAMADU 

Woni  wall*  ya  ji  labarlnsa  dayawa :  ya  tashi  ya  hau 
dokinsa  zaki :  bulalansa  machiji  ya  yi  taffia  :  kamman 
kwana  ukku  ya  tambaya  mutane  da  suna  gammuwa  ^ 
da  shi  ya  che  enna  woje  giddansa  akache  da  shi 
giddansa  soro^  ne  ya  fi  duka  babu  woni  soron  gidda 
kammansa  randa  ya  shigga  chikkin  gari  abu  muha- 
madu :  ya  ganni  gidda  :  har  ya  shigga  chikki  ya  yi 
salama  bai  iskeshi  gidda  ba  :  ya  tambaya  enna  ya  taffi 

^  '  Wali '  is  from  the  Arabic  ^^JT,  'friend,'  in  a  religious 
sense,  i.e.  '  wali  allah  ',  '  wali  mohammed.' 

'  'Suna  gammuwa.'  Here  again  (see  note  ",  'The  Boy  and 
the  Lion  Cub  ')  we  meet  the  continuative  form  of  the  pronoun 
with  the  nominal  form  of  the  verb,  which  is  correct  and  good 
Hausa.  Properly  translated  this  would  read,  '  He  asked  the 
people  whom  he  was  continually  meeting,'  &c. 

^  'Soro'  properly  means  'two-storied'  as  applied  to  a 
dwelling-house.  Such  are  uncommon  among  the  Hausas,  and 
probably  the  meaning  here  is  a  well-built,  fine  house,  with 
a  good  entrance  and  striking  appearance. 

*  '  Fada '  means  the  Council-house  of  the  chief,  where  cases 
are    tried   and   affairs  of   state  discussed.      It    is   sometimes 


QUESTIONS   AND   ANSWERS  43 

ankache  masa  shina  fada  *  giddan  sariki :  zuchlansa  ^ 
ya  yi  biu :  kuma  ya  ganni  giddansa  shina  wolkia  ^ 
kammaii  giddan  sariki :  wali  ahmidu  :  kuma  ya  ganni 
anashigga  giddan  muhamadu  da  bammc  '^  kiiUum 
hakkanan  :  ahmidu  shina  tamaha  kamman  abu  muha- 
madu shina  sha  bamme  :  ya  yi  mamaki :  ya  yi  kwana 
bokkoi  bai  tambayeshi  woni  maganna  ba  :  ya  salama  ^*^ 
abu  muhamadu  ya  che  zan  komo  gidda :  ya  taffi  wurin 
dokinsa  :  zashi  kama  doki  ya  ki  kuma  zashi  kama 
bulala :  shi  kuma  ya  ki :  abu  muhamadu  ya  ganneshi 
ya  che  masa  :  ahmidu  yaka  ya  zo  ^ :  kana  so  ka  tam- 

surmounted  by  an  ostrich-egg,  '  kwoin  jimina, '  as  indicating 
the  abode  of  a  '  big-man  *,  and  to  ward  ofif  the  evil  eye. 

'  Bafada, '  *  courtier,'  has  plural  '  fadawa  '. 

^  *  Zuchiansa  '  should  be  written  '  zuchialsa '  or  '  zuchiarsa '. 
The  meaning  of  the  expression  '  ya  yi  biu  '  is  that  *  doubt  was  in 
his  heart '. 

^  '  Wolkia '  means  '  lightning  ',  but  would  here  apply  to  the 
outside  of  the  house,  polished  and  shining. 

'  '  Bamme '  or  '  bam  '  is  palm-wine  obtained  by  incising  the 
stem  of  a  certain  palm-tree,  called  by  the  Hausas  '  Tukurua '. 
When  new  it  is  a  refreshing  and  pleasing  drink.  It  should  be 
carefully  strained  before  use  by  Europeans.  The  Ashanti 
children  ask  each  other  a  riddle,  the  translation  of  which  is, 
'  Who   are  beating  their    drum   all   night  ? '      The   answer   is 

*  The  palm-tree ',  and  refers  to  the  drip-drip  of  the  juice  as  it 
falls  into  the  calabash  placed  in  position  over-night,  and  which 
sounds  amid  the  silence  of  the  forest  like  the  tap-tap  of  a  drum. 

^  '  Ya  salama, '  *  he  greeted,'  refers  to  the  Arabic  salutation 
'  Salaam  alaikum  ',  '  Peace  be  upon  you, '  to  which  the  answer  is 

*  Alaikum  salaam ',  *  and  on  you  be  peace.' 

^  'Ahmidu  yaka  ya  zo,'  'Ahmidu  come  here,'  'Ahmidu 
came.'     See  note  *^, 'Waka.' 


44  HAUSA   READINGS 

bayeni :  vvoni  maganna  tauhidi  ^^ :  ka  yi  waswasi^^ 
zuchianka  :  ya  die  gaskia  allah  shi  gaferta  mallam  ^^ : 
akoi  maganna :  don  mi  giddanka  ya  yi  soro  ya  fi 
gidda  duka :  ya  che  masa  don  woni  bawa  allah  kamman 
ya  shigga  gari  kadda  shi  yi  wohalla  don  garinga 
shina  da  girma :  ya  che  gaskia  :  kuma  ya  che  masa 
don  mi  kana  zamna  chikkin  fada  giddan  sariki :  don 
sariki  shina  mugun  sheria  ^^  ina  hannashi :  kuma  ya 
tambayeshi  don  mi  anashigga  da  bamme  chikkin 
giddanka :  ya  che  zo  mu  taffi  ka  ganni  bayan  giddana 
ya  goda  masa  woni  rami  wurinda  anazuba  bamme : 
don  ina  vvaatsu  kullum  ba  su  ji  ^*   domin  hakkanan 

^°  'Tauhidi'  signifies  the  profession  of  die  unity  of  God,  the 
fundamental  point  of  '  Islam ',  whose  founder  absolutely  rejected 
any  idea  of  the  Trinity.  Cf.  Koran, iv.  169,  'Verily  the  messiah  Isa, 
the  son  of  Mary,  was  the  messenger  of  God,  and  His  word  came 
unto  Mary.  So  then,  believe  ye  in  God  and  in  His  messenger, 
and  say  not  that  there  are  three  ;  so  will  it  be  better  for  you.'  Also 
cf.  Koran,  v.  ']']  :  '  The  infidels  say  God  is  third  of  three,  but 
there  is  no  God  but  God  ;  He  is  the  one  (wahid).'  The  question, 
therefore,  *  Kana  so  katambayeni  woni  maganna  tauhidi '  is  equi- 
valent to  saying  '  Do  you  want  to  discuss  any  religious  matter  ? '. 

^^  '  Waswasi.'  This  word  is  not  yet  in  the  Dictionary,  and 
means  (i)  doubt,  (2)  evil  suggestions.  The  former  sense  is  here 
meant,  i.e.  '  you  have  doubt  in  your  heart. ' 

^'  *  Allah  shi  gaferta  mallam,'  '  May  God  pardon  his  priest.' 
Ahmidu  begs  for  forgiveness  for  the  doubt  which  is  in  his  heart. 

"  *  Shina  mugun  sheria.'  The  form  of  the  pronoun  implies 
a  continuative  sense,  i.e.  *he  is  always  giving  bad  judgements.' 
A  proper  understanding  of  this  and  kindred  matters  is  most 
important  in  Hausa. 

^*  '  Ina  waatsu  kullum  ba  su  ji,'  '  I  am  continually  holding 
forth  on  the  matter,  but  they  take  no  heed  ' :  see  above. 


QUESTIONS    AND   ANSWERS  45 

ina  saye  bamme  ina  zuba  chikkin  rami :  kuma  ya 
tambayeshi  don  mi  kana  sa  riga  maikeau  :  kammaii 
sariki  don  na  ganni  woni  bawa  allah  ba  shi  da  riga  ina 
tube  ina  bashi :  ya  che  gaskia  :  ya  che  masa  ina  son  en 
tambayeka  woni  litafi  sunansa  risala  ^^  don  na  ganni 
alfarmanka  ^^  ya  yi  yawa  don  hakkanan  :  na  yi  was- 
wasi  da  keau  ^^ :  abu  muhamadu  ya  che  masa  taffi 
gidda  ina  aiko  maka  da  shi  chikkin  gulbi  abu  muha- 
madu ya  rubuta  :  ya  daure  ^^  ya  aika  masa  chikkin  rua 
litafi  ya  yi  taffia  har  ya  kai  garin  ahmidu  kowache 
mache  ta  taffi  rafi  sai  ta  ganni  abu  dunkule  ^^  chikkin 
rua  :  har  labari  ya  kai  wurin  ahmidu  :  ya  tashi  ya  taffi 

^^  '  Risala.'  The  precise  significance  of  this  word  is  '  a 
theological  tractate  '  or  '  compendium '.  Some  of  these  produc- 
tions are  more  revered  than  the  Koran.  The  Arabic  word  is 
iJll,,  and  in  modern  Arabic  means  'letter,  message  in  writing'. 
The  word  'rasulu'  (see  note  ^,  'Waka'),  'apostle,  messenger/ 
is  derived  from  the  same  root. 

^®  'Alfarma'  is  of  Persian  origin,  and  means  'command', 
'  pride, '  *  swagger. '     The  anglicized  '  firman  '  is  closely  related. 

^■^  '  Da  keau '  as  here  used  is  hard  to  translate,  and  has,  in 
fact,  the  sense  of  'probe'  in  Latin,  i.e.  'finely,  thoroughly,' 
'  Perdocta  est  probe.' 

The  above  few  lines  are  difficult,  and  to  enable  the  student  to 
appreciate  the  exact  sense,  are  here  translated  freely. 

'  He  said  to  him  ;  "  I  wish  to  ask  you  for  a  certain  religious 
book."  The  reason  I  had  doubt  in  my  heart  was  because  of 
your  splendid  mode  of  life  ;  that  was  the  reason.' 

^^  '  Ya  daure  ' :  see  note  -^,  '  Waka.' 

'^  '  Dunkule '  expresses  the  appearance  some  loose  leaves  of 
writing  would  present  if  they  had  been  in  the  water.  Cf. 
Dictionary. 


46  HAUSA   READINGS 

bakin  rafi  ya  ganni  ya  dauka  ya  zo  gidda :  tammat. 
Labari  ta  chikka  da  iko  allah.-^ 

'°  The  strong  resemblance  between  this  story  and  an  incident 
in  IMasudi's  Historical  Miscellany  has  prompted  the  insertion 
wholesale  of  the  incident  referred  to.  Masudi  was  a  well- 
known  Moorish  historian. 

(From  Coldcji  Meadows  of  Masudi,  A.  H.  345.) 

One  of  His  (Omar's)  administrators  was  Sa'id  ben  'Amirin, 
and  the  people  of  Emesa  laid  complaint  against  him  and 
demanded  his  deposition.  Omar  said,  '  O  Allah  !  Put  not 
my  confidence  in  him  to  confusion  this  day  ! '  adding,  *  What  do 
you  complain  of  in  him  ? '  They  replied,  '  He  does  not  come 
forth  to  us  until  the  day  is  advanced,  he  gives  an  answer  to  no 
one  at  night,  and  has  one  day  in  the  month  on  which  he  does 
not  show  himself  to  us  at  all.'  Then  Omar  said,  '  Bring  him 
before  me.'  When  he  came,  he  summoned  both  parties  to  his 
presence,  saying,  '  What  do  you  reproach  him  with  ? '  They 
replied,  '  He  does  not  come  forth  to  us  until  the  day  is  far 
advanced.'  He  said,  '  O  Commander  of  the  Faithful !  my  wife 
has  no  servant,  and  so  I  knead  my  dough,  then  sit  down  until  it 
rises,  and  bake  my  bread,  then  I  perform  my  ablutions  and 
go  forth  to  them.'  He  said,  'W^hat  further  do  you  reproach 
him  with  ?'  They  said,  '  He  gives  no  answer  at  night.'  Sa'id 
replied,  '  I  would  rather  not  have  mentioned  this.  I  devote 
the  whole  of  the  night  to  the  Lord,  and  devote  the  day  to 
them.'  He  asked,  'With  what  more  do  you  reproach  him?' 
They  said,  '  On  one  day  of  the  month  he  does  not  come  forth 
to  us  at  all.'  He  answered,  'True,  I  have  no  servant,  I  wash 
my  clothes  and  mend  them,  and  so  I  am  late.'  Then  Omar 
said,  'Allah  be  praised,  Who  has  not  confounded  my  confi- 
dence in  thee.' 


47 


REFLECTIONS    ON    DEATH  ^ 

Bismi  allahi  errahmani  errahimi  salla  allahu  ala 
man  la  nabiyu  ba  'dahu  wonga  haddichi  ^  na  wahabu 
dan  wardi  shi  ne  ya  faddi  ku  mutane  dan  adam  :  babu 
wonda  shina  mutuwa  ba  sai  ya  ganni  malaiku  chikkin 
giddan  dunia  :  kaddan  ka  yi  nagari  kana  ganninsu 
hakkanan  kuma  kaddan  ka  yi  mugu  kana  ganninsu 
babu  fashi  ^ :   dagga  bayan  wonan  kuma  koenna  ka 

1  This  piece  is  a  religious  homily,  the  subject  being  the  next 
wodd,  and  the  fleeting  nature  of  this  life.  It  commences 
with  the  usual  Arabic  opening,  the  Bismillah,  and  may  be 
translated,  '  In  the  name  of  Allah,  compassionate  and  merciful, 
may  Allah  bless  him,  after  whom  there  is  no  prophet  I'  It  must 
be  remembered  that  Mohammed  taught,  and  his  followers 
believed,  that  he  was  the  '  seal  of  the  prophets ',  and  that  after 
him  there  would  be  no  other.  For  a  note  on  the  Bismillah  see 
note  ^,  *  Mutane  zina.' 

^  *  Haddichi '  is  a  religious  discourse. 

'  In  Mussulman  tradition  there  are  two  angels  deputed  to 
take  account  of  our  behaviour  in  this  world,  one  on  the  right 
hand  and  one  on  the  left.  The  angel  on  the  right  records  our 
good  actions,  while  the  angel  on  the  left  records  the  evil  which 
we  do. 

'  Babu  fashi,'  *  without  delay.'  This  word  '  fashi '  is  also 
written  *  passa,  passhi,  pesshi,'  according  to  the  tendency 
exhibited  in  Hausa  to  confuse  the  labials /^  ^,  b  ;  cf.  Hausa 
Dictionary^  p.  xviii.  The  original  meaning  was  probably  '  to 
break,  destroy';  e.g.  '  passhe  hainya,'  'to  break  (interrupt) 
the  road  '  ;  '  maipesshin  hainya,'  *  a  robber  ' ;  '  muna  taffia 
ba  fashi,' .'  we  are  travelling  without  a  break.'  Hence  the  more 
abstract  meanings,  *  delay,  interruption.' 


48  HAUSA   READINGS 

zamma  tare  da  su  komi  kana  faddi  suna  ji  kaddan  ka 
faddi  mugu  maganna  suna  ji  kaddan  ka  faddi  nagari 
suna  ji  :  hakkanan  kuma  kaddan  mutum  zashi 
mutuvva*  suna  yi  maka  maganna^  ashirin  suna  yi  maka 
maganna  ukku  lokachin  ^  anafitta  da  raika  '^  maganna 
ukku  kuma  lokachinda  anarufe  maka  zanne  ^  maganna 
ukku  kuma  lokachinda  anadaukanka  bissa  kai  ^ : 
maganna  ukku  kuma  lokachinda  anataffia  da  kai 
wurin  rami  ^^ :  maganna  biu  kuma  lokachinda  anasaka 
chikkin  rami :  maganna  ukku  kuma  lokachinda 
anazuba  maka  kassa  bissa  kai  ^^ :  maganna  ukku 
kuma  lokachin  mutane  suna  komo  gidda. 

Ka  gani  maganna  ukku  lokachin  raika  shina  fitta  : 
anafadda    maka   ya    kai    dan    adam  ka  rude  kanka  : 

*  'Zashi  mutuwa.'  This,  as  opposed  to  the  form  '  zashi  mutu', 
is  correct  and  idiomatic.  The  future  prefix  *  za '  takes  properly 
the  nominal  form  of  the  verb,  e.g.  'zani  mutuwa,'  '  zata  taffia,' 
&c.  This  rule  is,  however,  frequently  broken  by  the  Hausas 
themselves. 

^  'Maganna'  may  best  be  translated  here  as  'a  solemn 
remark,  or  reflection '. 

^  '  Lokachin ' :  concerning  this  word  and  its  derivation  see 
note  ",  '  The  Story  of  Joseph.' 

'  '  Anafitta  da  raika.'  This,  the  separation  of  the  soul  from 
the  body,  is  the  office  of  Asrael,  the  angel  of  death,  and  of  his 
assistants. 

**  *  Zanne  '  is  '  the  shroud '. 

^  '  Anadaukanka  bissa  kai ' :  the  bearing  aloft  of  the  body. 

^^  'Anataffia  da  kai  wurin  rami':  the  funeral  procession  is' 
here  signified. 

^^  '  Anazuba  maka  kassa  bissa  kai ' :  this  is  the  filling  in  of 
the  grave. 


REFLECTIONS    OX    DEATH 


49 


enna  jikkinka  maikarfi  yau  babu  karfi  kuma  cnna, 
halshinka  maidadin  maganna :  enna  yan  uwanka  da 
makubchinka  ^^ :  maganna  ukku  lokachin  anasa  maka 
zanne  kai  dan  adamii  ka  rudi  kanka  enna  aikinka 
maikeau  wonda  akayi  zamanka  na  dunia :  tunda  ka 
zamna  chikkin  dunia  giddan  karia  :  ka  rabbo  da 
giddan  karia  ka  shigga  giddan  gaskia :  maganna 
ukku  kuma  lokachin  anadaukanka  bissa  kai  :  kai  dan 

^^  'Makubchi'or  'makofchi'  means  'a  neighbour'.  It  has 
plural '  makopta '.  Concerning  the  plural  of  substantives  formed 
by  the  use  of  the  noun-agent  prefixes  '  mai ',  '  ma,'  a  curious  con- 
trast may  be  observed.  In  the  case  of  '  mai '  as  a  noun-agent 
prefix,  the  plural  of  the  noun  is  formed  by  changing  '  mai '  into 
'  masu',  and  the  noun  itself  remains  unaltered,  e.g. 


maigona 

maipasshi 

maiguddu 

maigirima 

maidoki 

maitaimako 

&c.,  &.C. 


plural 


masugona 

masupesshi 

masuguddu 

masugirima 

masudoki 


the  owner  of  a  farm 

a  robber 

a  fugitive 

one  who  is  great 

a  horseman 


masutaimako   a  defender. 


In  the  case  of  'ma'  as  a  noun-agent,  the  plural  of  the 
substantive  is  formed  by  the  irregular  change  of  the  stem-word, 
and  the  prefix  '  ma  '  remains  unaltered,  e.g. 


madafa 
makofchi 
mafada 
makafo 
madumki 
makiyi 
marubuchi 
&:c.,  Sec. 


plural 


madafai 

makopta 

mafada  wa 

makafi 

madunikai 

makiya 

marubuta 


cannon 

neighbour 

councillor 

blind  man 

tailor 

enemy 

scribe, 


D 


50  HAUSA   READINGS 

adam  ka  rude  kanka  ka  taffi  ke  nan  har  abada  ^"  : 
zaka  yi  taffia  wanda  ba  ka  tabba  yin  irinsa  daidai^'*  : 
zaka  hadu  chikkin  kassa  tunda  ka  ke  ba  ka  tabba 
hadi  irinsa  daidai  ^^  :  kana  jin  tsoro  tunda  ka  ke  ba  ka 
tabba  jin  tsoro  irinsa  ba  daidai  ^^  :  maganna  ukku 
kuma  lokachinda  ana  taffia  da  kai  wurin  rami  kai  dan 
adamu  ka  rude  kanka  :  kana  samu  aikinka  kaddan 
alheri  ka  samu  ^^  kaddan  mugu  ka  samu  mugu  : 
maganna  biu  kuma  lokachinda  anasaka  chikkin  rami 
kai  dan  adamu  ka  rude  kanka  kassa  ta  che  maka 
kana  bissana  kana  farinchikki  ga  shi  yau  kana  samu 
bakinchikki  ^^ :  maganna  ukku  kuma  lokachinda 
anazuba  maka  kassa  kanka  kai  dan  adamu  ka  rude 
kanka  yau  ka  rabbo  da  giddan  mutane  ka  shigga 
giddan  susa^^  da  haki  ka  rabbo  da  giddan  karia  ka 
shigga    giddan   gaskia  ka  rabbo    da    chi   da  sha   sai 

^'  '  Ka  taffi  ke  nan  har  abada.'  '  Ke  nan/  'so  it  is.'  Trans- 
late '  you  are  departing,  in  fact,  for  ever '. 

^*  '  Daidai  '  with  the  negative  means  '  never ',  as  in  the  piece 
'  Moses  and  his  Mission',  note  ^'^ 

^^  '  Zaka  hadu,'  &c. ;  '  you  will  be  swallowed  up  in  the  earth, 
in  a  fashion  that  you  yourself  never  swallowed  in  your  life.' 
Notice  the  two  forms  '  hadu ',  '  hadi,'  passive  and  active. 

^^  '  Kana  jin  tsoro,'  &c. :  translate,  '  You  will  feel  fear  such 
as  never  before  have  you  felt  the  like.* 

^'^  *  Ka  samu.'  'Alheri'  is  here  understood,  i.e.  'if  your 
actions  have  been  good,  good  you  will  receive.' 

^^  '  Kassa  ta  che  maka/  &c. :  translate,  '  The  earth  says, 
while  you  abode  on  me  you  were  happy,  now  indeed  sadness  is 
your  portion.' 

1^  '  Susa '  means  here  *  worms  ',  '  maggots.'  It  is  probably 
the  same  as  '  tsutsa  ', '  chocha/  in  Mr.  Robinson's  Dictionary  q.  v. 


REFLECTIONS   ON   DEATH  51 

kassa  da  susa  :  lokachinda  mutane  sun  berika  kai  dan 
adamu  mutane  sun  saka  chikkin  kassa  :  sun  rabbo  da 
kai  kamman  ba  su  sanka  ba  ^^ :  kaddan  sun  zo  gidda 
suna  kwashe  dukianka  da  matanka  -^  ya  ku  mutane  ku 
tuba  ku  bi  ubangijinku  tun  ba  ku  mutu  ba^^:  ku 
nemi  aiki  maikeau:  wanda  ya  yi  mugu  don  kansa 
ubangizi  Allah  ba  shi  tsalumchi  bawansa. 

Ku  mutane  ku  san  dunia  gidda  ba  gidda  ba  ^^  ku 
mutane  ku  san  dunia  ba  ta  zama  tutut  -^  :  kaddan 
kun  wuche  dunia :  babu  mutuwa  enna  uwayenku 
maza  da  mata  da  kakaninku  ^^ :  duka  sun  mutu 
hakkanan  ku  kuma  zaku  mutuwa  :  koda  ka  shekara 
dubu  goma  kana  mutuwa :  haddichi  ta  chikka  da  iko 
allah. 

^°  '  Sun  rabbo  da  kai/  <S:c.,  '  they  part  from  you  as  if  they  did 
not  know  of  your  existence.' 

^^  '  Dukianka  da  matanka '  is  of  course  incorrect^  and  should 
read  *  dukialka  da  mataka ',  or  '  dukiarka  da  mataka  ' ;  see  note 
^^,  *  The  Story  of  Joseph.' 

^^  *  Tun  ba  ku  mutu  ba.'     This  is  an  important  idiom  and 
the   regular   way  of  expressing  'before',  i.e.  *  tun '   with   the 
negative  '  ba '. 
*^  *  Gidda  ba  gidda  ba ' :  see  note  ^^,  *  Waka.' 
^*  *  Tutut,'  '  for  ever,  for  all  time,  continually.'     Other  forms 
are  '  tutur,  tutuk,  tutu.' 

^^  'Kakaninku,'  'your  ancestors,'  from  '  kaka '.  Many  Hausa 
nouns  form  the  plural  in  this  manner  : 

Uba  father  plural      ubani 

Bauna         buffalo  „  bakani 

Manzo        messenger        „  manzani 

&c.,  &.C. 


D  a 


52  IIAUSA   READINGS 

CIRCULAR    LETTER 

Bismi  allahi  errahmani  eirahimi  salla  allahu  ala  sidi- 
na  muhamadu  ^. 

In  1905  there  occurred  in  West  Africa,  and  especially  in 
Ashanti  and  the  Gold  Coast  Hinterland,  what  may  best  be 
described  as  a  religious  revival.  Emissaries,  giving  themselves 
out  as  from  the  holy  cities,  appeared  with  their  disciples  in 
many  places  at  about  the  same  time  and  commenced  an  active 
propaganda,  while  letters  from  important  Mohammedans  in 
Mecca  were  circulated  from  hand  to  hand.  For  a  time  the 
tendency  of  this  movement  seemed  to  be  one  of  simple  con- 
version of  the  heathen,  and  great  success  attended  the  efforts 
of  its  missionaries.  Before  long,  however,  what  was  nothing 
less  than  an  anti-European  agitation  showed  itself.  Great 
local  excitement  prevailed,  and  the  matter  was  brought  actively 
before  the  eyes  of  the  authorities.  In  some  cases,  notably  in 
the  Eastern  districts,  the  Ashantis  overturned  their  idols,  and — 
obeying  the  behests  of  one  group  of  emissaries,  given  no  doubt 
with  the  object  of  playing  on  their  superstitions— destroyed  all 
their '  black '  objects  such  as  cattle,  fowls,  cloths,  «&;c.,  and  would  per- 
haps have  beggared  themselves  had  not  the  authorities  interfered. 

At  that  time,  in  anticipation  of  a  visit  from  the  Governor, 
the  barracks  in  Kumase  were  being  re-whitened,  and  it  was 
fully  believed  by  the  soldiers  that  their  officers,  while  not 
countenancing  these  acts,  were  themselves  taking  precautions 
against  the  ban  of  '  black '.  Eventually  these  missionaries  were 
expelled,  and  in  some  cases  imprisoned  by  the  German  and 
French  commissioners;  but  all  through  1905,  and  partly  in 
1906,  movements  of  this  sort  went  on  sporadically. 

This  letter  is  a  translation  from  the  Arabic,  by  a  Hausa 
mallam,  of  one  of  the  missives  from  Mecca  circulated  with 
the  object  of  stirring  up  religious  enthusiasm  among  the  West 
African  Mohammedans,  and  is  in  some  sort  an  encyclical. 

*  For  a  translation  of  this,  and  all  other  '  Bismillah  '  occurring 
in  this  book,  see  note  \  of  '  Mutane  zina  '. 


CIRCULAR   LETTER  ,53 

Wong"a  wotchika  na  mutanen  yamma  ^  sabbada 
woddansu  mutane  masukeau  achikkin  mccca  waliyc 
allah  ^  su  ne  masu  tsofi  abdulkadiri  aljailane  *  su  ne 
sherifi  ^  da  muhamadu  dan  abdullahi  da  abdu  errah- 
manl  sun  faddi  yanzu  chikkin  mecca  sun  ganni 
chikkin  berichi  ^  ubangiji  allah  ya  yi  nuffe '  zashi 
hallaka^  dunia  duka  da  abinda  shina  chikki  musulmi 
duka  suna  yin  berna^  mutane  duka  wonda  suna 
chikkin  yamma  suna  chin  dukia  marayu  ^^  domin 
tsalumchi :  domin  hakkanan  shina  bata  dunia  :  suna 
yin  karia  dayawa  lokachinda  ankasanada  malaiku  ^^ 

^  '  Alutanen  yamma,' '  men  of  the  west,'  refers  generally  to  the 
inhabitants  of  West  Africa. 

^  '  Waliye  allah,'  'those  near  to  God,  saints.'  See  note  \ 
'  Questions  and  Answers.' 

*  'Aljailane,'  Arabic  'jailaniy',  a  gentillic  adjective  from 
'jaulan',  a  stony  region  lying  east  of  the  Lake  of  Tiberias. 
The  '  Jailani '  are  '  the  Gaulonites  '.  See  note  *,  '  Hours  of 
Prayer.' 

^  '  Sherifi,'  Ar.  '  high-born,  noble'.  In  the  eyes  of  the 
Hausas  a  '  Sherif '  is  not  only  a  moslem  of  eminence  in  Islam, 
but  is  believed  to  possess  miraculous  powers. 

^  '  Berichi,'  or  'berchi',  'sleep,'  here  implies  'in  a  vision'. 

■^  '  Yi  nuffe.'     '  Nuffe  '  or  '  niffe '  is  '  to  desire,  purpose  '. 

^  '  Hallaka,'  a  pure  Arabic  word,  i*lAa,  meaning  'destroy '. 

^  '  Yin  berna,'  '  lose,  waste,'  and  in  its  religious  sense  '  to  be 
luke-warm\ 

^°  '  Chin  dukia  marayu,'  '  seize  the  property  of  the  orphan.' 
In  Mahommedan  eyes  this  is  a  mortal  offence,  constantly 
denounced  in  the  Koran.  Kor.  ii.  218  seq.,  iv.  5  seq., 
xciii.  9. 

"  '  Sanada  malaiku,'  'expound,  concerning  the  angels':  see 
note  ^  *  Moses  and  his  jNIission.' 


54  HAUSA   READINGS 

suka  yi  roko  suka  che  ya^^  ubangijimu  ya  kai  mahal- 
lachinmu  ya  shugabbamu  ^^  kai  ne  kana  ganni  abinda 
shina  boye  da  wonda  shina  fill  ^^  mu  masuaiki  mugunta  : 
domin  mutane  ashirin  da  daia  dominsu  amber  dunia  su 
ne  shikkashikkin  ^^  dimia  su  ne  sun  rikka  salla  ^*^ 
lokachi  blar  achikkin  el  medina  da  litafi  muhamadu 
salla  allahu  alaihi  wa  salama  ^^  mutane  kirki  biu  suna 
chikkin  duchi  karafatun  ^^  mutum  ukku  suna  chikkin 

^^  '  Ya,'  Arabic  :  *  O  '  used  in  expression,  as  '  ya  sidi ',  *  ya 
rasulu  ' :  see  note  ^,    Waka.' 

^^  '  Shugabbamu/  '  our  guide.'  The  leader  of  a  caravan  is 
styled  '  shugabba '  or  '  jagabba  '. 

^*  '  Kana  ganni  abinda  shina  boye  da  wonda  shina  fiH.'  A 
commonplace  of  the  Koran;  e.g.  Kor.  ii.  31,  'And  I  know 
that  which  ye  discover  and  that  which  ye  conceal.' 

^^  'Shikkashikkin/  'supports/  and  esp.  'poles  of  a  tent'. 
Translate,  '  They  uphold  the  world/ 

^•^  '  Rikka  salla,'  '  cleave  to  prayer,  constantly  praying.' 
'Rikka,  rikke,  rikki '  (see  note  "^,  'The  Wedded  Pair')  has 
great  use  in  idiom ;  e.g.  '  sun  rikka  taffi ',  '  they  went  at 
once.' 

"  '  Litafi  muhamadu  salla  allahu  alaihi  wa  salama/  When 
the  name  of  Mohammed  is  mentioned  aloud  a  pious  exclamation 
follows  with  orthodox  Moslems,  equivalent  in  a  sense  to  the 
Roman  CathoHc  bowing  of  the  head  at  the  name  of  'Jesus'. 
Translate,  '  May  Allah  be  gracious  to  him  and  give  him  pros- 
perity.' 'Medina'  has  in  a  sense  lost  its  name.  The  first  and 
proper  name  was  '  Yathreb '.  Then  it  was  called  the  Medina 
(city)  of  the  Prophet,  and  finally  simply  '  Medina '.  The 
manner  in  which  the  word  '  town '  is  used  for  London  is 
analogous. 

^^  '  Karafatun.'  This  we  regard  as  a  copyist's  error,  he 
having  taken  a  carelessly  written  '  kaf '  for  '  ain  '.    Arafat  (u^l-VJ^) 


CIRCULAR    LETTER  ^d 

bagadazi  ^^  blu  kuma  suna  chikkin  beit-al  mukad- 
assi  -'^  ukku  kuma  suna  chikkin  mazar  -^  biu  kuma 
suna  chikkin  arafa  ^^  su  ne  masugaskia :  da  su  da 
malaiku  sunka  yi  roko  ubangiji  allah  ka  yi  hankuri 
har  mu  aika  wurin  jama'al  musulmi  ^^ :  annabi  muha- 

is  a  mountain  near  Mecca,  alkided  to  in  Koran  ii.  194,  'and 
when  (on  the  pilgrimage)  ye  go  in  procession  from  Arafat, 
remember  God  near  the  holy  mount ' ;  see  The  Hausa 
Language^  note  8,   p.   164  (C.  H.  Robinson). 

^^  '  Bagadazi,'  *  Bagdad,'  the  head  quarters  of  the  Shiah  sect  of 
Islam  and  sacred  to  the  Alkadiria. 

-°  '  Beit-al-mukadassi.'  This  phrase  is  used  not  only  of  the 
Kaaba,  &c.  at  Mecca,  but  also  of  the  Temple  at  Jerusalem,  and 
of  Jerusalem  itself. 

-^  '  Mazar,'  '  the  land  of  Egypt.'  The  scriptural  word  is  the 
dual  'Mizraim',  denoting  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt.  '  Misr,' 
'  reddish  mud,'  is  to  this  day  used  by  the  Arabs  to  denote 
Egypt,  and  is  also  found  on  ancient  Assyrian  inscriptions. 
It  is  in  fact  a  Semitic  equivalent  for  'Chem  '  (Ham),  i.e.  'the 
land  of  Ham  '.  The  Hebrew  singular  *  Mazor '  is  sometimes 
found  in  this  connexion.  '  Mizraim  '  was  a  son  of  Ham,  but 
not  the  eldest. 

2^  'Arafa'  (see  note  ^^  siipj-a)  is  near  to  Mecca.  When, 
according  to  Mussulman  tradition,  Adam  was  banished  to 
Ceylon,  he  uttered  such  a  cry  of  anguish  that  Allah  had  pity  ; 
he  was  directed  to  follow  a  cloud,  which  would  conduct  him  to 
a  spot  underneath  the  throne  of  God,  and  there  he  was  to  build 
a  temple.  On  his  arrival,  at  the  end  of  the  journey,  which 
owing  to  his  gigantic  stature  he  was  able  to  accomplish  in  one 
step,  he  found  and  recognized  Eve  to  his  great  joy.  Hence  the 
name  '  Arafa  ',  which  means  '  recognize,  know  again  '. 

2=^  '  Jama'al  musulmi '  is  the  congregation  of  the  faithful.     The 

Arabic   A»a-  and  i^U:^.  mean  '  band,  company '. 


r^e  HAUSA   READINGS 

madu  ka  aika  wurlii  alumanka  ^"^ :  ba  don  -^  annabi 
muhamadu  ba  da  masugaskia  miitum  ashirin  da  daia 
ba  da  anhallaka  diinia  da  abinda  shina  chikkin  dunia 
da  aljannu  da  mutane  -^ :  ga  faddi-'  ubangiji  allah  ba 
don  mutane  kirki  ba  da  ya  bude  kofa  azaba  :  domin 
mun  ber  hainya  allah  :  yana  sabka  masu  da  chiwo  : 
maikarifi :  da  yunwa :  da  kishinrua  maikarifi  mutane 
wonda  suna  bissa  kassa  ''^ :  da  abu  bekr  ^^  shi  ne  ya 
tambaya  othmanu  dan  fodio  ^^ :  da  ikonsu  :  da  muha- 
madu dan  abdulkadiri  da  muhamadu  buni  "^  abdu 
allahi  yusufu  dan  nahra  su  ne  mutane  beit-al-mukad- 
assi  ^^   da   kasimu    da   sahanunu    da   muhamadu    dan 

■*  *Aluma,'  'relations':  see  note  ^  'The  Attributes  of  the 
Prophet.' 

"^  '  Ba  don.'  This  idiomatic  phrase  may  always  be  translated 
by  'had  it  not  been  for',  illustrated  by  the  classical  phrase  known 
to  all  Mallams,  '  Ba  don  kirranka  ubanka,  mi  zai  kaimu  Hausa.' 

-^  'Aljannu  da  mutane/  'men  and  demons.'  All  Moham- 
medans believe  in  genii  or  evil  spirits  as  invisible  beings 
intermediate  between  angels  and  men. 

-■^  '  Ga  faddi,'  '  at  the  word  of.' 

^^  *  Bissa  kassa,'  '  upon  the  earth.' 

*^  '  Abu  bekr.'  The  first  Khalifah  and  successor  of  Alahommed. 
He  reigned  two  years,  dying  A.  D.  634.  See  Reichardt,  Gra/umar 
of  the  Fulde  Language,  No.  XX.  p.  289. 

^°  '  Othmanu  dan  fodio '  was  the  Sheikh  who  led  the  Fulani 
to  the  conquest  and  conversion  of  the  Hausa  States,  circa  1809. 
This  sentence  evidently  refers  to  an  imaginary  interview  between 
these  two  in  Paradise. 

^^  'Buni,'  Arabic  'son  of — a  harmless  piece  of  pedantry  oiT 
the   part    of  the   translator.     '  Abdul   Kadiri '    was   Othman's 
principal  adherent,  while  '  Abdu  Illahi '  was  his  son. 

^^  See  note  ^^,  sup-a. 


CIRCULAR   LETTER  57 

abdu  allahi  su  ne  chikkin  dushi  ^^  da  muhamadu  dan 
fodio :  da  muhamadu  dan  hurairatun  su  ne  bayin  ^* 
allah  bissa  kassa:  ku  mutane  yamma  ku  bi  ubangiji 
allah  :  ku  tuba  ku  bi  allah  shI  ne  maigirma  :  ku  jama'- 
al  musulmi  ku  duka  raiku  ba  woni  abu  ba  wurina  '^'^ : 
ku  tuba :  tun  ban  aiko  ^*^  maku  mutuwa  :  da  chiwo :  da 
kishinrua  :  ku  nemi  aiki  maikeau  :  ku  duka  :  ku  yi 
saddaka  dayawa  da  adua  dayawa:  domin  ina 
saukaka  ^^  maku  chiuta :  da  kishinrua :  ku  mutane 
yamma  :  ku  ber  :  rada  ^^ :  da  annamimanchi  kaddan 
ba  hakka  ba :  ina  baku  chiwo :  da  mugu  dayawa  :  ku 
ber  hasada  ga  junanku  :  da  mugu  baki"^:  da  berna 
maiyawa :  kowane  aiki  mugu  duka:  ku  nemi  sanni 
wurin  mallamai  ku  taru  :  ku  yi  salla  chikkin  masal- 
lachi :  ku  yi  saddaka  ktt  ba  mallamai  :  ku  yi  roko : 
en   basu   sauki  ^° :   wonda  ya  ber  saddaka  da  karia : 

"^  '  Dushi '  refers  to  the  hill  of  '  Arafat ' :  see  note  '^,  supra. 

"^^  'Bayi/  plural  of  'bawa',  'slave.'  This  plural  is  that  in 
'  i '  where  the  termination  has  palatalized  the  iv  \.q  y  \  '  baw-i ', 
becoming  'bay-i'.  Such  palatalization  accounts  for  'kaza', 
'  fowl,'  plural  '  kaji '. 

'^  'Raiku  ba  woni  abu  ba  wurina.'  The  sense  is,  'What  is 
your  life  to  me  ;  nothing  !  ' 

"^  '  Tun  ban  aiko,'  '  before  I  send  ' :  see  note  --,  '  Reflections 
on  Death.' 

^■^  'Sauka'  or  'soka'  is  a  form  of  the  verb  '  sabka ',  'sabki,' 
'  sapka,'  '  let  down,  lay  down,'  &c. 

^^  '  Rada,'  '  whisper,  speak  secretly,'  in  a  bad  sense. 

^^'Annamimanchi,'  *  tale-bearing  ' ;  'hasada,'  'jealousy'; 
'  mugun  baki,'  '  evil  tongue,'  all  find  their  place  in  the  list  of 
sins  in  the  piece  or  '  The  Deadly  Sins',  q.v. 

^^  '  En  basu  sauki,'  '  that  they  may  be  granted  health.' 


58  HAUSA   READINGS 

don  kadda  ku  samu  chiuta:  kaddan  ba  hakka  ba  I'na 
biide  maku  :  kofan  azaba'^^  maiyawa :  kuna  tsalumchi 
kaiku  ku  jama'  al  musulmi:  ku  yi  yenka  shanu  da 
tumaki  da  awaki :  da  tufafi  kuna  ba  nama  shanu  kuna 
ba  mallamai  ^^ :  da  talakawa  "^" :  da  tsofi  :  wonda  ya 
yi  saddaka  shi  ya  tsira  da  azaba  ** :  da  chiuto  maiyawa 
da  karifi :  ku  mutane  yamma  ku  yi  kokari  ^^ :  da  salla 
achikkin  lokachinsa  '^^ :  ku  tuba  ku  bi  hainya :  allah 
don  kadda  ku  samu  wohalla :  da  mutuwa :  da 
yunwa  :  da  kishinrua :  sariki  da  alkali  ^''  ba  su  yin 
sheria  da  gaskia :  su  duka  suna  chikkin  wuta  :  jama'- 
al  musulmi  ku  nemi  albarka^^:  wurin  malamaiku : 
da  uwayenku  maza  da  mata :  su  duka  sun  ber  dunia  : 
kadda    ku    dauka   dunia  bissa  kaiku  ^*^:    ubangiji    na 

*^  '  Kofan  azaba,'  '  the  gates  of  torment.' 

*'-  By  this  is  meant  the  subsistence  of  the  priests,  a  duty  which 
is  specially  mentioned  in  the  Koran  and  enjoined  on  the  faithful. 

*^  'Talakawa,'  plural  of  Malaka',  'a  poor  man,'  somewhat 
after  the  manner  in  which  the  plural  of  patronymics  is  formed. 
See  note  ^,  '  Letter  from  a  Mallam.' 

**  'Tsira  da  azaba,'  '  saved  from  punishment.'  '  Tsira,'  which 
properly  means  '  spring  out  of  the  ground,'  as  seeds,  &c.,  has  the 
secondary  meaning  'to  be  saved',  as  in  Specimens,  E  5,  B  i8. 

*^  '  Yi  kokari,'  '  endeavour,  try  hard.'  This  expression  is  in 
great  use  colloquially, 

*®  This  refers  to  the  five  times  for  prayer,  as  mentioned  in  the 
piece  '  Hours  of  Prayer'. 

"''^  'Alkali,'  'judge'  ;  plural  'alkalai  '.     Cf.  Speci?nens,  E  10. 

■'^  'Albarka,'  'blessing.'  Derived  from  the  Arabic.  It  has  an 
idiomatic  usage  in  commerce,  meaning  '  Thank  you  for  nothing  ; 
no,  thank  you '.     The  use  of  the  French,  Merci,  is  analogous. 

*^  '  Kadda  ku  dauka  dunia  bissa  kaiku,'  '  Do  not  bear  the 


CIRCULAR   LETTER  59 

rokcka  domin  alfarma  ^^  annabi  muhamadu  :  da  wali- 
yanka  :  ka  tsira  da  ni  ^^ :  bayan  wonan  wonda  ya  yi 
karatu  wonga  wotchika  :  shi  aika  da  shi  woni  gari : 
wurin  jama'al  musulmi :  saura  kadan  :  anarufe  kofan 
tuba  ku  tuba  da  sauri  don  ku  samu  gafara :  rana 
tashin  kiyama  ya  yi  kussa :  ku  mutane  yam  ma 
ku  yi  azumi  kwana  ukku  ukku  kuma  da  saddaka 
achikkin  ranal  laraba  da  adua  wonda  ya  yi  karatu 
wotchika  dan  uwansa  ya  ji  shina  samu  lada  :  daya- 
wa  :  anasashi  aljanna  ^'^  :  idan  kiyama  allah  ta  yi : 
babu  woni  sheria  wurinsa  ^^ :  ba  shi  da  azaba  ko 
gudda  ^* :  wonda  bai  aika  wotchika  wurin  dan  uwansa 
ba :  shina  samu  wuta  jahannama  ^'^  babu  shakka  babu 

weight  of  the  world  on  your  head,'  or,  freely  translated,  '  Mind 
your  own  business.' 

•''"  '  Alfarma,'  '  splendour '  :  see,  on  this  word,  note  '*', 
'  Questions  and  Answers.' 

^^  '  Ka  tsira  da  ni,'  '  save  me.'  This  expression  is  stereotyped 
as  a  prayer  to  Allah  :  see  *"*,  supra. 

^^  'Aljanna,' '  Paradise  ' ;  see  note  ^, '  Moses  and  his  Mission.' 

^^  *  Babu  woni  sheria  wurinsa,'  '  There  will  be  no  judgement, 
as  far  as  he  is  concerned.' 

^*  '  Ba  shi  da  azaba  ko  gudda,'  '  He  will  not  be  punished,  not 
even  slightly.' 

^^  'Jahannama,'  one  of  the  seven  hells,  reserved  for  wicked 
Mohammedans.  It  may  not  be  out  of  place  to  here  insert 
a  general  note  on  this  interesting  subject.  There  are  seven 
divisions  of  Hell,  given  by  the  Muslim  commentators  as 
follows : — 

(i)  '  Jahannamu  '  (ge  Hinnom,  Joshua  xv.  8).  Cf.  Kor.  xv.  43, 
et  seq. :  'And  verily  hell  is  denounced  unto  them  all.  It 
has  seven  gates  ;  and  to  each  gate  a  distinct  section  of  them 
is  assigned.'   This  is  the  purgatorial  hell  for  all  Mohammedans. 


6o  HAUSA   READINGS 

kokonto  ^^ :   vvonda  ya  ber  salla  da  azumi :  da  zaka  : 

babu   shina  samu    aljanna  kowa   shi   nemi   giizuri  '''^ : 

tunda  ga  dunia  da  aiki  maikeau  :  woiida  ya  yi  nagari 

ya  samu   nagari :    wonda    ya   yi    mugu   don   kansa : 

ubangiji  ba  shi  tsalumchi  bawansa  tammat 

wotchika  ya  chikka 

alhaji  dawudu  shi  ne 

ya  kawoshi  dagga 

mecca  ^^. 

(ii)  'Ladha'  (taking  fire,  emission  of  flame),  Kor.  Ixx.  15. 
A  blazing  fire  for  Christians. 

(iii)  'Hotama'  (breaking  in  pieces).  Cf.  Kor.  xiv.  4,  'He 
shall  surely  be  thrown  into  Hotama,  and  what  shall  teach  thee 
what  Hotama  is .''  It  is  the  kindled  fire  of  Allah,'  &:c.  An 
intense  fire  for  the  Jews. 

(iv)  'Sair'  (burning  fire,  see  note  ",  'Waka'),  Kor.  xlii.  5. 
A  flaming  fire  for  the  Sabians. 

(v)  'Saqar'  (fierce  heat),  Kor.  liv.  48,  'On  that  day  they 
shall  be  dragged  into  the  fire  on  their  faces  :  taste  ye  the  touch 
of  Saqar.'     A  scorching  fire  for  the  Magi. 

(vi)  'Jahini'  (blazing  fire),  Kor.  ii.  113,  'Thou  shalt  not  be 
questioned  as  to  the  followers  of  al-Jahini.'  A  huge  hot  fire 
for  idolaters. 

(vii)  '  Hawiya '  (pit,  gulf,  abyss),  Arabic  {Jj^,  '  to  fall.' 
Kor.  ci.  8,  '  As  for  him  whose  balance  is  light  his  dwelling 
shall  be  Hawiya.'     A  bottomless  pit  for  the  hypocrites. 

"°  'Kokonto,'  'reasoning,  disputing,  doubt.* 

^"^  '  Nemi  guzuri,' '  seek  provision  for  a  journey.'  In  this  sense 
good  works  are  meant,  stored  up  while  on  earth,  as  provisions 
for  the  next  world. 

^^  '  Alhaji '  means 'one  who  has  performed  the  pilgrimage*"," 
distinguished  by  a  green  turban. 

'  Dawudu '  or  (Eng.)  '  David '  '  he  it  was  who  brought  this 
letter  from  Mecca.' 


6i 


ATTRIBUTES  OF  THE  PROPHET 

Bismi  allahi  errahmani  errahimi  salla  allahu  'ala 
man  la  mabiyu  ba'dahu. 

Ya  rabbi  ya  rabbana  agfir  li  ^  zunubikum  -  alumma  ^ 
ya  rasulu  allahi  deddi  faddi  shi  ke  wada'*  suka  kadda 
maulana^  deddi  don  fa  alkalamina  duka  ya  damme 

^  'Agfir  li.'  An  example  of  the  interlarding  of  Hausa  with 
Arabic.  'Agfir'  is  the  imper.  conj.  IV  of 'gafara',  'forgive.' 
'  Li '  is  the  Arabic  preposition  '  to  '. 

^  'Zunubikum,'  'your  sins.'  'Zunubi'  or  'zunufi'  is  derived 
from  Arabic  »_jAi-i.,   'evil,  sin,'  , 

^  'Alumma.'  The  Arabic  '  umma,'  ll\  means  'assembly, 
crowd,  multitude ',  and  so  'race,  people'.  It  is  often  applied 
to  those  forming  one  religious  or  political  body,  and  is  frequently 
used  in  a  good  sense  {in  meliorem  paj-tem).  Cf.  Kor.  v.  70, 
'  If  the  people  of  the  scriptures  believe  and  fear  Us,  We  will 
certainly  expiate  their  sins  and  lead  them  into  gardens  of 
pleasure,  and  if  they  observe  the  law  and  the  gospel  and  what 
other  scriptures  have  been  sent  down  to  them  from  their  Lord 
they  shall  surely  eat  of  that  which  is  above  them  and  beneath 
their  feet.  Among  them  are  people  (umma)  who  act  righteously 
while  as  to  many  of  them  what  they  work  is  evil.'  Translate, 
*0  Lord,  our  God,  forgive  unto  the  followers  of  the  prophet, 
their  sins.' 

*  '  Wada ' :  evidently  this  should  be  '  woddanda ',  when  the 
line  would  best  translate,  'of  old  Allah  condemned  those  who 
had  contemned  the  master'. 

^  '  Maulana.'    This  is  the  Arabic  'maulan',  plural  '  mawalin^ 

'  master,  Lord.'  The  verb,  ^^J^  '  wala,'  '  reach,  be  near,'  has  in 
conjunction  (2)  the  meaning  'become  master,  obtain  rule'. 
It  is  used  of  Allah  in  Koran  iii.  143.      From  the  same  root 


62  HAUSA   READINGS 

yau  da  annabi  annabi  ^  ya  fi  rana  bale  fari'n  wata  annabi 
ya  fi  tamraru  da  kai  sama  zakka  da  baiwa  "^  kowa  ya 
ke  yishi  azumi  da  salla  ^  kowa  ya  ke  yishi  ran  alhira  ^ 
kuka  samu  annabi  ^^'  tammat. 

comes  the  Hausa  '  waliyi,  woli ',  'saint,'  i.e.  'one  near  to 
God.' 

^  '  Annabi,' '  prophet,'  in  this,  and  succeeding  lines,  refers  only 
to  Mohammed. 

■^  '  Zakka  da  baiwa,'  '  alms  and  gifts.' 

^  '  Azumi  da  salla,' 'fasting  and  prayer.' 

^  This  is  for  'rana  lahira.' 

^^  '  Samu  annabi.'     In  the  MS.  a   dot   over   the   p  may  be 

noticed.  This  can  only  be  a  mistake,  the  proper  reading  being 
as  here  inserted.  'Samu  '  means  the  'attaining'  in  a  religious 
sense,  as  in  'Waka',  note  ^.  The  sense  of  these  lines,  after 
the  enumeration  of  the  prophet's  excellences,  is  that  whoever 
practises  his  precepts  will  on  the  last  day  be  gathered  to  him. 


MUTANE   ZINA 

Bismi  allahi  errahmani  errahimi 

MUTANE    ZINA. 

This  poem,  directed  against  adulterers,  is  well  known  by  the 
Mallams.  It  will  be  noticed  that  every  other  line  ends  with 
'  zina ',  and  that  the  scansion  is  good  throughout.  The  Koran 
inveighs  strongly  against  this  sin ;  at  first,  an  adulteress  was 
condemned  to  life-long  imprisonment,  but  afterwards  by  the 
'  Sonna'  this  was  altered  to  stoning  to  death.  Fornication  was 
punishable  with  a  hundred  stripes  ;  see  Kor.  iv.  19. 

As  is  usual,  it  commences  with  the  Bismillah,  and  tYie 
occasion  is  taken  of  here  inserting  a  general  note  on  this 
subject.  There  are  two  chief  forms  of  the  Bismillah,  namely, 
'  Bismi  allahi  errahmani  errahimi,'  i.  e.  '  In  the  name  of  God, 


MUTANE   ZINA  63 

Mu  roke  ta'ala  ^  shi  bishemii  ^  hainya  ^ 
Shi  fishemu  ^  aiki  mutane  zina 


Compassionate  and  Merciful';  and  secondly,  *  Bismi  allalii 
allah  akbar/  i.  e.  '  In  the  name  of  God,  God  the  most  great '. 
The  former  is  used  before  meals,  putting  on  new  clothes,  and  at 
the  commencement  of  books.  Every  '  surat '  of  the  Koran  com- 
mences with  this  Bismillah  except  the  ninth. 

The  latter  form  is  used  at  the  slaughtering  of  animals  and 
before  going  into  battle,  the  attribute  of  mercy  being  omitted  on 
these  occasions.  The  Arabic  words  added  to  the  Bismillah 
vary  at  will,  and  are  given  below  as  regards  this  book  in  the 
order  of  their  occurrence,  with  a  translation. 

(a)  '  Circular  Letter.'  '  Bismi  allahi  errahmani  errahimi 
salla  allahu  ala  saidi-na  muhammadu,'  '  In  the  name  of  Allah, 
the  Compassionate  and  Merciful,  may  Allah  be  gracious  to  our 
lord  Mohammed.' 

(d)  '  Attributes  of  the  Prophet.'  '  Bismi  allahi  errahmani 
errahimi  salla  allahu  ala  man  la  nabia  ba'dahu',  '  In  the  name 
of  God  Compassionate  and  Merciful,  may  Allah  be  gracious  to 
him,  after  whom  there  is  no  prophet.' 

(c)  '  Mutane  Zina  '  requires  no  explanation. 

(c/)  'Waka.'  'Bismi  allahi  errahmani  errahimi  salla  allahu 
ala  man  la  nabiu  ba'dahu  al  Karimu,'  '  In  the  name  of  God 
Compassionate  and  Merciful,  may  Allah  be  gracious  to  him  after 
whom  there  is  no  prophet,  the  noble.' 

^  'Ta'ala'  is  derived  from  the  Arabic  Jlc,  '  to  be  high,'  and 
means  *  the  exalted  one '.  It  is  an  epithet  applied  only  to 
Allah. 

^  '  Bishe ' :  the  causative  form  of  '  bi ',  '  follow.' 

^  '  Hainya,'  '  road  ' ;  here,  '  the  way  of  the  Lord,'  its  usual 
sense  in  religious  compositions.  '  We  beseech  the  exalted  one, 
to  direct  our  footsteps  in  his  path.' 

*  *  Fishe,'  the  causative  form  of '  fitta ',  '  go  out,'  &c. 


64  HAUSA    READINGS 

Zamma^  kafirawa  ^  kan  yerda  da  sabo  "^ 

Suna  bata  amre  ^  suna  yi  zina 

Azaba  allahii  a  lanal  kiama^ 

Ta'ala  da  ya  yiwota  ^^  don  maizina 

Azaba  allahii  suna  tatakita^^ 

Su  zamna  hasara  mutane  zina 

Ku  san  maizina  shika  gabba  da  allahii  ^^ 

Da  ya  ki  muhamadu  ya  yi  zina^^ 

Ta'ala  shi  toyeshi  fasiki  na  ^'^ 

^  '  Zamma,'  '  because.'  Cf.  Specimens  of  Hausa  Literature^ 
F.  14,  15,  68. 

^  '  Kafirawa,'  plural  of  '  Kafiri ',  'heathen,  infidel.'  It  is  the 
same  as  our  modern  word,  '  Kafir.' 

''  'Sabo'  or  '  swabo '  means  'evil,  filth  in  a  religious  sense', 
and  is  equivalent  to  '  su  ka  banna ',  as-  sometimes  written  in 
copies  of  this  poem. 

^  '  Amre,'  also  written  '  amri ',  '  aure,'  is  '  marriage,  the  mar- 
riage tie '. 

^  *  Ranal  kiama,'  '  day  of  resurrection.' 

^°  '  Da  ya  yiwota,' '  who  made  it  (azaba).'  '  Yiwo  '  is  a  seldom 
used  form  of  '  yi ',  to  make,  corresponding  to  '  zuwa '  from  '  za ', 
'  komawa  '  from  '  koma  ',  &c. 

^^  '  Tatakita,'  from  *  taki ',  ^  tread,  beat  down.'  The  doubling 
of  the  first  syllable  tends  to  emphasis  :  '  The  punishment  of 
God  they  trample  on  it.' 

'2  '  Shika  gabba  da  allahu,'  '  he  is  an  enemy  to  God ' ;  lit. 
'  he  is  before  God.'  Cf.  '  Abokin  gaba,'  '  an  enemy.'  The 
English  '  to  be  against '  conveys  the  same  idea. 

^'"  '  Da  ya  ki  muhamadu,'  &c.,  '  who  rejects  Mohammed, 
commits  adultery.'  '  Zina '  is  perhaps  used  here  in  a  religious 
sense,  i.  e.  that  of  embracing  a  false  creed. 

^*  'Fasiki,'  plural  'fasikai',  'profligate':  'the  Almighty  will 
consume  the  profligate  man.'    '  Na '  is  evidently  written  for  '  ne  '. 


MUTANE   ZINA  65 

Zamma  babu  tsarki  ^^  ga  maizina 
Da  yenka  kamna  ^^  tsakkani  da  allah 
Enna  fa  ^"^  makoma  ^^  ga  maizina 
Kovva  fa  ya  soshi  ya  san  hallinsa 
Fa  su  zamma  dadai  da  maizina  ^^ 
Ka  she  ^^  aizikinsu  wutal  kiama 
En  dai  su  manche  ^^  ku  ^^  mutane  zina 
Fa  sun  ber  ta'ala  ta'ala  shi  bersu 
Enna  sunka  koma^^  mutane  zina 
Ba  su  ga  muhamadu  ra  '1  kiama  ^* 

^^  *  Tsarki,'  *  purity,  holiness  ' :  'for  there  is  no  purity  to  the 
adulterer.' 

^^  '  Yenka  kamna/  lit.  '  cut  the  love,  or  desire/  hence  '  reject, 
despise,  cancel.'     Cf.  Specimens,  C.  10. 

^"^  'Fa,'  'therefore,  thus,  then.'  It  is  much  used  colloquially 
and  is  an  Arabic  word. 

^^  '  Makoma,'  '  place  of  return.'  Cf.  the  Koranic  common- 
place, '  and  to  Allah  they  shall  return.'  Here  the  meaning 
is  that  the  '  mutum  zina '  is  lost  in  this  world  and  the  next. 

"  'Fa  su  zamma  dadai  da  maizina,'  'they  (i.e.  Kowa,  every- 
body, all)  become  like  to  the  adulterer.' 

^^  '  Ka  she  '  =  '  ka  che.'     Sometimes  '  ku  san  '  is  read  here. 

^^  '  En  dai  su  manche.'  This  is  careless  copying  on  the  part 
of  the  scribe.  The  proper  reading  is  '  idan  sun  mache ',  '  when 
they  are  dead.' 

22  '  Ku  '  =  '  ko  ',  even. 

"  '  Enna  sunka  koma/  '  Where  shall  they  return  to  ? ',  is 
equivalent  to  '  ba  su  da  wurin  zamne  ',  '  they  have  no  place 
to  rest.' 

"*  '  Ba  su  ga  muhamadu  ra  'I  kiama.'  Mohammed  taught  his 
followers  that  on  the  day  of  judgement  he  would  act  as  their 
intercessor  with  God.  Hence,  not  to  see  the  prophet  on  that 
day  will  be  a  sentence  of  condemnation. 

E 


66  HAUSA    READINGS 

Bu  su  same  sheto  ^''  mutane  zina 
Miji-nal-mata^^  shi  kama  kiama 
Da  shi  fa  da  mata  sunkai  ^"^  zina 
Tammat  bi  hamdi  'llahi 
Waka  ta  chikka 
Ka  bia28. 
*  Ibrahima.'^^ 

^  '  Sheto  '  =  *  cheto,'  '  salvation.'  The  substitution  of  sh  '  for 
'  ch  '  is  a  Sokoto  custom. 

"^^  The  phrase  '  miji-nal-mata ',  lit.  '  the  man  of  a  woman,' 
means  '  the  woman's  man  ' ;  here,  '  the  woman  with  a  man  ' 
is  '  the  pair  of  adulterers '.  Translate,  *  The  resurrection  day 
will  seize  the  guilty  pair,  both  him  and  the  woman,  who  have 
committed  fornication.' 

^^  '  Sunkai,'  poetic  for  '  sunka  yi '. 

^®  '  Ka  bia.'  This  is  a  reminder  from  Ali  Bagobiri,  who  wrote 
the  poem  out,  that  his  reward  was  now  due. 

^'  '  Ibrahima  '  is  the  name  of  the  composer  of  the  poem. 

WAKA 

Bismi  allahi  errahmani  errahimi  salla  allahu  'ala — 
Man  la  nabiyu  ba'dahu  alkerimu ! 

Bisnni  allahi  rabbana  alkarimu — 

Ya  rahmanu  -rabbana  ya  ta'ala  ^. 

This  is  really  a  very  fine  specimen  of  a  Hausa  song.  It  does 
not  abound  in  Arabic  or  religious  expression,  and  the  language 
is  good  throughout.  Copious  notes  have  been  written  with 
a  view  to  a  thorough  understanding  of  the  piece,  the  style 
of  expression  of  which  might  otherwise  mystify  the  beginner. 

^  The  first  four  lines  are  Arabic,  and  are  to  be  translated 
thus  :  — 

'  In  the  name  of  the  compassionate  and  merciful  God,  may 


WAKA  (,^ 

Bismi  allahi  zani  en  fara  waka  ^ — 

En  yabba  ya  rasulu  ^  en  samu  lada 

Aiki  babu  salama  babu  aiki — 

Ku  y\  muna  salama  ga  aiki  fiyaye'* 

the  peace  of  God  be  upon  him,  after  whom  there  is  no  prophet 
(i.e.  Mahomet).  In  the  name  of  God,  our  Lord  the  Generous 
One — O  Compassionate  One,  our  Lord,  O  Exalted. 

*  'Zani  en  fara  waka.'  Here  the  original  force  of '  za ',  'to 
go,'  the  future  prefix,  is  clearly  seen — '  I  am  going,  that  I  may 
begin  my  song'.  'Zo,'  '  to  come,'  is  the  opposite  of  'za',  and 
varies  from  it  in  the  same  way  as  do : — 


isso 

from 

issa 

to 

meet 

komo 

koma 

come 

sayo 

saye 

sell 

berro 

berri 

leave 

fitto 

fitta 

go  out  from 

wanko 

wanke 

wash 

hango 

hange 

see  at  a  distance. 

The  verbal  substantive  is  'zuvva'. 

In  the  '-o'  forms,  the  action  is  regarded  from  the  point  of, 
or  is  referred  to  the  place  of,  the  speaker  ;  see  note  "^,  '  Story  of 
Joseph.' 

^  *  Ya  rasulu  '  =  '  O  apostle  '.  This  form  of  address  has  now 
become  stereotyped,  after  the  manner  of  the  French  '  monsieur  ', 
which  was  originally  '  mon  sieur '.  The  two  lines  may  be 
translated  : — 

*  In  the  name  of  God,  I  am  about  to  commence  my  song, 
In  praise  of  our  Apostle,  and  that  I  may  receive  a  reward.' 
*  '  Fiyaye  '  is  a  participial  or  verbal  adjective  from  the  verb 
*  fi  ',  '  to  excel,'  and  derived  from  it  after  the  manner  of : — 
shiriyayye     ready     from     shiri 
nennanne      ripe  ,,         nunna 

matache        dead         ,,         mache. 
E  2 


68  HAUSA    READINGS 

Nan  fara  yabbo  en  roko  ga  allah  — 

Dom  shi  kan  rabba  shi  kan  ba  kowa 

Allah  kadiru  karimu  gasshaii  ^ — 
Annabi  kadiru  karimu  fiyaye 

Translate  :  — 

'  Grant  us  your  blessing  to  the  work  of  the  exalted  one ' 
(Mohammed). 
^  '  Gasshaii.*  This  word  is  very  curious,  and  presented  some 
difficulty  until  it  was  referred  to  the  Arabic  triliteral  ^J^.  This 
root  is  found  in  several  places  in  the  Koran,  notably  in  Kor.  ii.  6, 
where  we  read, '  Allah  has  sealed  their  hearts  and  their  hearing, 
a  dimness  (sjli^)  covers  their  sight,  and  they  shall  suffer  a 
grievous  punishment.'  Compare  the  Biblical  passage,  '  With 
the  froward  man  thou  wilt  show  thyself  frovvard.*  In  this  case 
it  is  connected  with  the  so-called  '  Doctrine  of  Reprobation  '. 
There  are  many  Arabic  words  derived  from  the  root,  but  all 
may  be  described  as  applicable  to  '  Allah  '  reprobating  sinners 
or  warning  the  guilty.  The  word  in  the  form  as  used  here,  like 
'  mallach  ',  '  sailor,'  '  najjar,'  '  carpenter,'  does  not  occur  in  the 
Koran,  or,  indeed,  in  Arabic  at  all,  and  is  evidently  coined 
by  the  writer  of  the  poem.  From  this  it  follows  that  its  use 
here  is  quite  arbitrary,  and  the  meaning  in  all  probability  de- 
pends on  the  exact  passage  of  the  Koran  in  which  the  root  ^^i^ 
occurred,  and  which  the  poet  had  in  his  mind  when  he  composed 
the  line.  Had  he  had  in  his  thoughts  Kor.  Ixxxviii,  it  would 
mean  '  the  God  of  the  Overwhelming  day  ',  i.  e.  of  the  judgement 
day  ;  cf.  the  Hausa  '  mai-gobe ',  and  the  phrase  in  Kor.  i, 
*  maliki  yaum  ad-dini,'  '  King  of  the  judgement-day.'  So  little 
are  these  parts  of  compositions  understood  by  the  Hausas  them- 
selves that  Mallam  Isa,  a  learned  Hausa,  and  the  author  of  a 
History  of  the  Hausa  States,  in  which  a  short  commentary 
on  this  poem  occurs,  explains  the  word  as  signifying  '  Kadirin 
'ala  man  yashau  ',  that  is,  '  God  is  powerful  over  whom  He  wills/ 
a  rendering  which  is  simply  out  of  the  question. 


WAKA  69 

Samun^  dan  amina*^  shi  ne  waddamu  ^ — 
Shi  ne  kan  waddanmu  ba  dukia  ba 

Samun  dukia  waddaku  talauchi^ — 

Dan  karuna  ^^  ya  yita  bai  ^^  magani  ^^  ba 

'  '  Samun  '  is  '  the  getting  of,  '  the  attaining  to,'  in  a  religious 
sense. 

■^  'Dan  amina'  is  the  prophet  Mahommed,  whose  mother's 
name  was  Amina.  In  classical  Arabic  it  is  written  *  Amina-tu '  ; 
she  was  the  daughter  of  Wahbi,  and  died  before  her  son  claimed 
the  position  of  prophet. 

*  'Wadda'  is  derived  from  an  Arabic  word  which  signifies 
'that  which  we  like,  or  wish'.  It  is  here  contrasted  with 
'  Dukia  ', '  wealth,'  and  the  lines  may  be  translated  thus  : — 

*  Our  inheritance,  is  the  prophet  son  of  Amina  ;  in  this, 
and  not  in  the  possession  of  worldly  wealth,  consists  our 
treasure.' 

^  '  Talauchi,'  '  poverty,'  is  an  example  of  phonetic  corruption  ; 
it  is  an  abstract  formed  from  *  talaka  ',  *  poor,'  by  the  addition 
of  'chi',  after  the  manner  in  which  'sarauta',  'kingdom,'  is 
formed  from  '  sariki ',  '  king.' 

The  sense  of  the  line  is,  that  worldly  riches  are  but  transient ; 
and  more  literally  : — 

'  In  the  attaining  after  worldly  wealth 
Poverty  will  be  really  your  portion.' 
^^  '  Dan  karuna.'     *  Karu,'  which   means  a  *  prostitute ',  has 
feminine  '  karua  '  and  plural '  karuna '.    The  expression  is  one  of 
reproach  for  the  irreligious,  and  may  be  rendered  *  the  mis- 
begotten '.     The  lines  may  then  be  translated  :  — 
'  The  profligate  gains  worldly  wealth, 
But  derives  no  benefit  thereby.' 
"  '  Bai '  is  a  contraction  of  '  ba  ya  yi '  with  a  poet's  licence. 
^"^  '  Magani.'     There  is  a  connexion  between  '  magani ', '  medi- 
cine,' and  '  maganna  *,  '  word,  matter.'     The  latter  is  a  feminine 
noun  of  the  instrument  derived  from  the  verb  '  ganni ',  '  to  see,' 


70  HAUSA   READINGS 

Dan  karuna  ya  yl  fahri  ^^  ga  allah 
Ya  rassa  dukia  ya  koma  saira  ^^ 

Da  su  da  itatua  mutane  safina — • 
Duda  duatsuwa  mutane  saira^^ 

i.e.  the  means  of  knowing  a  thing,  its  designation,  word.  The 
former  is  a  noun  of  the  instrument  derived  from  the  same  verb, 
in  the  sense  of  *a  word  used  as  medicine',  i.e.  the  written 
medicine  of  the  Hausas,  consisting  of  an  appropriate  verse 
from  the  Koran,  the  ink  of  which  is  washed  off  and  drunk. 
Such  a  word-medicine  is  sometimes  called  a  '  Sunan  allah ', 
from  the  fact  that  it  often  begins  with  the  *  Bismillah  '. 

'^  '  Fahri '  is  an  Arabic  word  meaning  *  pride,  arrogance  *. 
Translate  : — 

'  The  misbegotten  one  is  arrogant  before  God.' 

"  *  Saira,'  '  burning  hell.'  For  the  sense  of  this  and  of  the 
two  preceding  lines  cf.  Koran  iii.  ii,  'Verily  those  who  have 
proved  infidels,  their  wealth  shall  profit  neither  them  nor  their 
children  with  God ;  they  shall  be  fuel  of  hell  fire  (nar.).' 
Mallam  Isa,  referred  to  in  notes  ^  and  ^^  as  the  author  of  a  short 
commentary  on  this  poem,  remarks  on  this  line  :  '  Kaito  !  saira 
na  ji  kogi  wuta  che  mu  kadda  allahu  ya  kaimu  kogi  saira.'  It 
is  to  be  hoped  that  Mallam  Isa's  work,  which  is  in  the  posses- 
sion of  Mr.  W.  H.  Brooks,  will  in  time  be  published.  For  the 
word  '  saira '  itself,  the  student  may  consult  Kor.  xlii.  5,  *  One 
part  of  them  shall  be  in  Paradise  and  another  part  in  hell-fire 
(sair).'  By  the  commentators,  '  sair  '  is  understood  as  a  special 
place  of  torment  appointed  for  the  Sabeans,  but  is  not  so  desig- 
nated in  the  Koran. 

^'  '  Da  su  da  itatua  mutane  safina — 

duda  duwatsuwa  mutane  saira.' 
As  it  stands  this  passage  is  inexplicable.      That   the  text  is 
corrupt  may  be  seen  from  the  fact  of  the  two  lines  ending  with 
the  same  word  '  saira,'  in  opposition  to  the  general  system  of 
the   poem.      It   may,  therefore,  be   concluded   that   a   line   is 


WAKA  71 

Sarari-d-dunia  ^*^  gidda  ba  gidda  ba^^ — 

missing,  which,  were  it  present,  would  enable  us  to  decide 
between  various  ways  of  taking  the  passage.  The  *  mutane 
safina '  are,  of  course,  the  '  ashabu-s-safinati '  of  the  Koran,  '  the 
people  of  the  ark'  (cf.  Koran  ii.  76,  xxiv.  14).  Of  these 
Eutychius,  the  patriarch  of  Alexandria,  says,  '  Before  entering 
the  Ark,  Noah  and  his  sons  visited  the  cave  of  Elkanuz,  where 
lay  the  bodies  of  Adam  and  other  of  his  ancestors.  He  kissed 
his  ancestors  and  bore  ofif  the  body  of  Adam.  They  then  bade 
farewell  to  Paradise  with  tears,  and  they  kissed  the  stones 
(duatsuwa)  and  embraced  the  trees  (itatua)  of  the  Holy  mount.' 
The  occurrence  of  this  last  sentence  in  connexion  with  Noah 
and  his  sons,  the  people  of  the  ark,  is  at  least  suggestive  in 
explication  of  the  passage.  Suggestive,  also,  is  the  passage  in 
the  Koran  concerning  Canaan,  the  infidel  grandson  of  Noah. 
Noah,  seeing  that  Canaan  was  not  on  board,  bade  him  embark. 
Canaan  replied,  '  I  will  ascend  the  mountains  (duatsuwa)  and 
will  be  safe  there.'  The  reader  must  select  for  himself  the 
legend  to  which  the  passage  refers.  The  literal  translation 
is  : — 

'  Both  they  and  the  trees,  even  the  men  of  the  ark,  not- 
withstanding the  rocks  (mountains)  became  men  of  hell  fire.' 

^^  *  Sarari-d-dunia.'  '  Sarari '  is  the  plural  of  '  sarrai ', 
'  a  plain.'  This  word  is  curious  in  that  the  plural  form  seems 
only  to  be  used  in  a  physical,  and  the  singular  form  only  in 
a  mental  or  logical  sense :  '  Na  duba  sarrai  sarrai,'  *  1  see 
plainly.' 

^^  '  Gidda  ba  gidda  ba.'  This  expression  frequently  occurs  in 
Hausa  poetry.  For  the  general  sense  of  the  nothingness  of  this 
world  cf.  Koran  xxix.  24,  '  And  this  life  of  the  present  world  is 
nothing  but  a  toy,  a  plaything,  but  the  future  abode  (Ar.  '  dar ', 
Hausa  'gidda')  is  life  indeed,  did  they  but  know.'  Cf.  also 
Koran  Ivii.  19.  For  a  parallel  form  of  expression  cf.  Greek 
7r()Xif  airoKis  (Sophocles),  also  Td(f)os  aTa(f>os,  and  the  Latin 
'  Funera  nee  funera '  (Catullus,  Ixiv.  83). 


72  HAUSA   READINGS 

Dakin  dunia  gidda  ko  na  karia 
Daki-d-dunia  gari  ba  gari  ba — 

Daki-d-dunia  gidda  ko  maiyaiita^^ 
Sarari-d-dunia  da  baba  da  yaro — 

Kowa  hallinsa  ne  gerkowa  ne^^ 
Sarari-d-dunia  ka  che  ka  fi  wane 

Rana-1-lahira  ku  kan  tashi  daidai^^ 
En  ambibia  shi  kuma  shi  fika — 

Kumia  ta  rufeka  amberka  baya^^ 
Kaza  ta  fitto  da  yayanta  goma — 

Shafu  ya  chainye  ba  ka  kai  gudda  ba 
En  ban  kai  gudda  ba  na  gode  allah — 

Guga  ^^  nan  da  na  yi  na  samu  lada 

The  sense  intended  is,  '  This  world  is  an  abode  of  small 
account  compared  with  the  next.' 

^®  '  Maiyauta/  *  multitude,  manifoldness.'  Translate,  '  The 
house  of  the  world  is  an  abode  of  manifold  change.'  The  root 
is  that  of  '  yawa  ',  '  much,'  'dayawa,'  'much,  many' ;  cf.  'yawan 
maganna,'  '  much  speech,  talk.'  The  derived  verbal  forms  are 
'yawanta,  yawanche ' ;  e.g.  *don  kadda  en  yawanta  maka 
zanche,'  '  to  make  a  long  story  short.' 

'^  'Sarari-d-dunia  da  baba  da  yaro,'  &c.,  'The  plains  of  the 
world  are  for  great  and  small,  and  to  each,  his  own  character  is 
a  shield.' 

''°  '  Sarari-d-dunia  ka  che  ka  fi  wane,'  &c.,  '  In  this  world  you 
are  apt  to  say,  "  I  am  better  than  such  a  one  "  :  on  the  last 
day,  you  will  rise  up  equal.' 

^'  '  En  ambibia  shi  kuma  shi  fika,'  &c., '  Before  the  judgement 
seat  he  will  be  found  your  better ;  shame  will  confuse  you,  you 
will  be  left  behind.'  '  Bibia  '  means  '  to  examine  carefully,  to 
regard  discerningly  '. 

^"^  '  Guga '  signifies  the  act  of  the  hen  when  sitting  on  her 
jiest  with  her  breast-feathers  ruffled  so  as  to  cover  all  her  eggs. 


WAKA  73 

Akwia  ta  fitto  garin  nata  kiwo — 

Kura  ya  chainye  ba  ka  kai  gudda  ba 
En  ban  kai  gudda  ba  na  gode  allah — 

Biki^^  nan  da  na  yi  na  samu  lada 
Barewa  ta  fitto  garin  nata  kiwo — 

Terko  ya  rikke  kaffa  tun  da  safe 
Annabi  ya  fitto  garin  taffia  kilisa  ^* 

Da  ta  ganneshi  ta  daura  kuka  ^^ 
Ya  che  barewa  mine  gareki — 

Domin  ganninka  na  daura  kuka 
Kuka  da  na  yi  domin  ganninka — 

Don  ka  sakkeni  en  guddu  enda  dana 
En  dai  na  sakkeki  ai  saki  tsire^^ — 

Mallam  Isa  (see  note  '^)  writes,  *  Kunchi  dai  da  na  yi,'  but  the 
word  '  kunche'  would  in  a  measure  convey  the  same  meaning  as 
'  guga  '  explained  as  above,  i.e.  *  huddling  posture  '. 

^  '  Biki,'  *  a  marriage  feast   or   celebration,'  is  also  written 
*  buki ',  and  regarding  this  see  note  ^^  '  The  Story  of  Joseph.' 
'*  '  Kilisa  '  signifies  '  gentle  exercise  on  horseback  '. 
"*  '  Ta  daura  kuka.'     *  Daura,   daure,  dora '  is  for  '  damre  ', 
a  word  of  great  use  idiomatically,  meaning  '  to  tie,  bind,'  &c. 
In  the  same  way — 

amre      becomes  aure        to  wed 
zamma  „         zona         to  stop,  sit 

takalma        „         takoma  sandal. 
Concerning  the  word  '  daura ' — 

daura  kuka  means      to  raise  a  cry 

daura  ido  „  to  frown 

daura  guddu  „  to  take  up  running 

daura  maganna      „  to  keep  one's  word. 

^^  *  En  dai  na  sakkeki  ai  saki  tsire.'  Translate,  '  If  indeed 
I  release  you,  if  indeed  I  set  you  free.'  For  *  ai '  cf.  Specime?ts 
of  Hausa  Literature^  B  79,  F  136. 


74  HAUSA   READINGS 

Zaki  shigga  hakko^'^  kua  zaki  boya 
En  dai  na  sakkeki  na  dau  jawafi  -® 

Na  dau  alhaki  makami  ^^  barevva 
Idan  ka  sakkeni  na  bada  nono — 

Na  dau  alkauel  na  komo  ga  sauna 
Annabi  ya  sakketa  ta  ruga  ^^  ga  daji — 

Ta  daura  guddu  "^  zua  enda  dan  dai 
Dan  da  ya  ganneta  ya  daura  murna — 

Ya  che  marhaba  ^^  enna  wonga  iri  kiwo 
Dana  ba  kiwo  ba  ga  ni  mayata  '^^ — 

Terko  ya  rikke  kaffa  tun  da  safe 
Taso  ka  kama  ka  tsutsa  ^* — 

Yaushina  gareka  dai  babu  saura^"^ 

'^'^  *  Hakko,'  also  '  fakko ',  probably  of  Arabic  origin,  is 
'  a  noose,  snare,  trap  '. 

"^^  'Jawafi*  means  'answer',  and  is  the  same  as  'jawabi',  for 
which  cf.  Dictionary. 

"^^  *  Makami '  :  see  note  '^^  '  The  Story  of  the  Boy  and  the 
Lion  Cub.' 

The  two  lines  may  thus  be  translated  : — 

'  If  I  let  you  go,  I  assume  a  responsibility, 
I  take  up  a  claim  enforceable  by  arms.' 

^°  '  Ruga  '  means  '  to  flee  quickly  '. 

^^  '  Ta  daura  guddu  ' :  see  note  ^•\ 

^'  '  Marhaba.'  This  is  the  well-known  Arabic  salutation,  the 
full  phrase  of  which  is  '  Marhaba  bika  ',  '  be  amplitude  with 
thee.* 

^^  '  Mayata '  is  '  a  passing  away ',  and  hence  '  an  exhausted 
condition'.  Cf.  Specimens  of  Hausa  Literature.,  D  85,  F  37. 
Translate :  — 

'  My  child,  I  have  nothing  for  you,  I  am  all  but  spent.' 

•*'*  '  Tsutsa  '  is  '  to  suck  (of  the  young  of  animals) '. 

^°  '  Yaushina  gareka  dai  babu  saura,'  *  this  dryness  of  mine  is 


WAKA  75 

ya  zaburru  ^®  shi  kama  shi  tsutsa — 

Tausaye  ya  bugeshi  ya  daura  kuka 
Ya  che  taffi  taffi  ina  na  yerda  nono — 

Don  so  ya  rasulu  ^"^  domin  son  fiyaye 
Barewa  ta  taffo  enda  terko  annabi — 

Ya  taffo  shi  kama  shi  damre  asne  ya  isso 
makami  barewa 
Sakki  sakki  wa  allahi^^  na  yerda  nama — 

Domin  ya  rasuki  domin  fiyaye 
Annabi  ya  kirrashi  kai  wonga  arne  ^^  — 

Kawo  korinka  kawo  bakanka  en  ta  wadda 
ma*« 

yours  indeed  (to  drain)  till  none  be  left.'  'Yaushi,'  derived 
from  the  Arabic,  means  '  to  wither,  shrivel  up',  and  here  refers 
to  the  mothers'  udders,  dry  already  through  want  of  pasture. 

^®  'Zaburru,'  'to  start,  start  up,'  is  often  used  of  horses. 
'  Shi  kama'  =  '  don  shi  kama',  '  in  order  to,  with  the  purpose 
to  take.' 

^'^  '  Ya  rasulu  ' :  see  note  ^. 

^^  'Wa  allahi'  is  an  Arabic  expression,  'By  Allah'.  It  is 
sometimes  heard,  as  in  the  Hausa  '  Na  bugeshi  vvollah',  '  I  beat 
him,  I  did.' 

2^  '  Arna '  means  '  heathen  '.  The  original  form  is  '  asna '. 
There  are  several  examples  of  the  interchange  of  r  and  s  in 
Hausa,  e.g. 

birne,     bisne       to  bury 
hasbia,  harbia     a  pigeon. 

Compare  the  Latin  mures  =  muses,  mice. 

*®  'Ta  wadda  ma'  would  be  in  colloquial  Hausa  '  ta  wadda 
maka',  and  may  be  translated  :  — 

'  Bring  your  bow  and  arrow  if  such  are  your  favourite 
possessions.' 


76  HAUSA   READINGS 

Ballanta  ^^  masauka  halba  nama  shi  tsire  ^^ 

Ko  wanda  ka  ganni  ba  shi  tsira 
Turn  ba  ajimjima  ba  ya  kadda  bauna  *^ 

Turn  ba  ajimjima  ba  ya  kadda  giwa 
Ya  che  jeka  jeka  **  kai  wonga  arne — 

Kad'  allah  kassheka  ba  adali  ba^^ 
Ya  che  jeka  jeka  kai  wonga  arne — 

Kad'  allah  kassheka  ba  saidi  ba''^ 
Ya  che  jeka  jeka  kai  wonga  arne — 

Kad'  allah  kassheka  ba  mumuni  ba*^ 
Allah  shi  sa  uwanka  cheton  rasulu — 

Allah  shi  sa  ubanka  cheton  fiyaye 
Akoi  woni  gulbi  giddan  ya  rasulu  ba  gulbi — 

Rua  ba  gulbi  wuta  kad'  allah  shi  kai  musulmi 
chikkinta 

*^  *  Ballanta,*  '  much  more,  preferably,'  has  also  the  forms 
*  balle,  ballatana'. 

*^  The  sense  of  the  line  is,  that  it  is  much  better  to  use  the 
spear,  as,  in  shooting,  the  game  may  escape. 

*^  *  Bauna,'  '  a  buffalo,'  has  plural '  Bakani '. 

**  '  Jeka,  jeka  '  means  '  hence  !  away  ! '  opprobriously,  like 
the  French  va-t-en.  With  this  verb,  in  the  second  person 
singular,  the  pronoun  is  suffixed,  which  is  peculiar  to  it,  and  to 
the  verb  '  yaka  ',  '  to  come.'  Otherwise  it  is  normal,  e.g.  '  Mun 
je  tashi  mun  je  salaga,'  the  commencing  word  of  a  well-known 
song  in  the  Hinterland  of  the  Gold  Coast. 

^^  '  Kad'  allah  kassheka  ba  adali  ba/  '  Lest  God  slay  thee  for 
thy  unrighteousness.' 

*^  '  Kad'  allah  kassheka  ba  saidi  ba,'  *  Lest  God  slay  thee 
for  thy  unblessedncss.' 

*^  *  Kad'  allah  kassheka  ba  mumuni  ba,'  '  Lest  God  slay  thee 
for  thy  unbelief.' 


WAKA  77 

Akoi  woni  gulbi  gidda  ya  rasulu  ba  gulbi — 

Wuta  ba  gulbi  rua  }'a  allah  shi  kai  musulmi 
chikki  nan 
Maibashi  uvva  ba  niu  so  da  shi  ba — 

Maibashi  uba  ba  mu  so  da  shi  ba 
Akoi  vvata  kosfa  *^  gidda  ya  rasulu — 

Kowa  ke  chikki  ya  ji  dadi 
Ga  dad  in  zama  jiki  babu  chiwo — 

Baba  mutuwa  chikki  giddan  babu  tsofa 
Kai  maidogua  da  korrc  da  mashi — 

Su  kan  sa  akasshe  avvaki  da  shanu 
Ba  baki  gareni  ba  ko  en  chi  nama — 

Ba  muria  garin  hadewa  jini  ba 
Ku  zo  ku  ga  dogua  da  kore  da  mashi — 

Su  kan  sa  akasshe  awaki  da  shanu 
Muka  ganni  mutum  mutum  ba  shi  gannemu — ' 

Kowa  kan  ya  gannemu  ba  shi  kwana 
Wonga  waka  ta  chikki  da  iko  allah — 

Rubutun  hanu  muallamu  aliyu 

bagobiri 
tammat, 

*^  '  Kasfa'  or  '  Kosfa'  is  the  Arabic  i^ls,  '  Kasbah  '  meaning 
*  a  citadel ',  and  also  '  a  quarter  of  a  town  '.  Thus  in  Casa 
Blanca  the  Arab  quarter  is  called  the  Kasbah. 


TRANSLATIONS 


THE  HAWK,  THE  DOVE,  AND  THE  PROPHET 

There  was  a  certain  prophet  named  Joseph.  Allah 
wished  to  test  him  as  to  whether  he  lived  in  His  fear. 
He  sent  for  the  angel  Gabriel  and  transformed  him 
into  a  hawk  ;  He  took  the  angel  Michael  and  changed 
him  into  a  dove.  The  one  chased  the  other,  the  hawk 
wishing  to  seize  the  dove.  They  both  flew  until  they 
came  to  the  prophet's  abode.  The  hawk  said  to  the 
prophet :  '  As  Allah  is  my  witness,  as  Mohammed  is 
my  witness,  the  dove  is  my  lawful  prey  ;  do  not  suffer 
him  to  escape.  To-day  for  three  days  I  have  eaten 
nothing.'  The  dove  said  to  Joseph:  '  If  you  allow  the 
hawk  to  devour  me,  you  and  I  will,  on  the  last  day, 
bring  our  case  before  the  Judgement  Seat.'  The 
hawk  too  spoke  to  the  same  effect.  The  prophet 
lacked  the  wherewithal  to  give,  so  what  did  he  do  but 
take  a  knife  and  cut  a  piece  from  his  thigh,  which  he 
gave  to  the  hawk,  who  ate  until  satiated.  He  released 
the  dove,  which  flew  away.  The  hawk  also  departed. 
Allah  said:  'Truly  Joseph  lives  in  my  fear.'  Allah 
healed  his  thigh  satisfactorily. 


79 


THE  STORY    OF    JOSEPH 

This  is  the  story  of  the  prophet  Joseph  and  Satan. 
Satan  went  to  the  prophet  and  said  to  him :  *  Allah 
likes  you  very  much,  he  has  given  you  property  and 
live  stock  and  many  children.'  He  then  returned  to 
Allah  and  said  to  him :  '  Joseph  does  not  love  you  ; 
because  you  have  given  him  possessions  and  herds  of 
horses,  on  that  account  he  prays  a  great  deal  ;  if  you 
visit  him  with  worry,  loss,  and  sickness,  you  will  see 
that  he  will  cease  to  pray.'  Allah  said  to  him  :  '  Is 
that  indeed  so?'  He  caused  a  pestilence  to  fall  on 
the  prophet's  house  ;  his  sons  all  died  ;  likewise  his 
cattle  and  sheep  ;  even  his  wives  ;  only  he  himself 
remained,  but,  notwithstanding,  he  did  not  cease  to 
pray  ;  he  prayed  at  all  the  appointed  times,  saying  : 
'  This  is  nothing  ;  that  which  Allah  has  sent,  he  himself 
will  take  away  again.' 

After  this  Satan  went  again  to  Allah  and  said  to 
him :  '  Cause  a  sickness  to  fall  on  Joseph,  and  see  him 
leave  off  prayer.'  Allah  caused  a  sickness  to  visit 
him  ;  Allah,  for  seventy  years,  suffered  the  sickness  to 
remain,  but  in  spite  of  all  he  prayed  ;  he  did  not  fail  to 
pray  even  for  a  single  day.  Satan  felt  ashamed  before 
Allah.  Allah  allowed  his  condition  to  improve  until 
he  regained  his  health.  He  received  his  health ;  he 
married  again  and  had  a  plentiful  progeny ;  his 
property,  his  cattle,  and  his  horses  were  restored  to 
him.     Allah  bestowed  on  him  to  the  effect  that  his 


8o  TRANSLATIONS 

condition   was  now  as   prosperous  as  formerly.     On 
this  account  let  each  of  us  beware  of  Satan. 


THE    WRANGLING   WIVES 

A  certain  king  had  two  wives.  The  head  wife  had 
no  children,  but  the  young  wife  gave  birth  to  two 
boys.  She  went  out  to  the  washing  place.  The  head 
wife  entered  into  the  room  where  the  boys  were  ;  she 
took  them  up,  and  cast  them  down  behind  the  town  ; 
then  she  killed  two  lizards  and  brought  and  laid 
them  on  the  sleeping-mat.  Next  she  came  to  the 
king  and  said  to  him  :  *  Your  wife  has  given  birth 
to  two  lizards.'  The  king  was  enraged ;  he  came 
and  looked  and  saw  the  lizards.  He  called  his 
bodyguard  and  ordered  them  to  catch  and  kill  the 
mother.  They  seized  her  and  hid  her  in  a  certain 
house.  An  old  woman  who  was  walking  behind  the 
(wall  of)  the  town  saw  the  two  boys  crouching  in 
a  hole,  and  she  took  them  and  brought  them  to  her 
house,  and  sought  medicine  for  them,  which  they 
drank.  When  they  were  of  the  age  of  reason  and 
well  grown,  she  brought  them  horses  which  they  rode, 
singing  as  they  rode  a  song  of  which  the  words  were : 
'  We  are  king's  sons,  born  of  noble  parents ;  we  were 
cast  away  behind  the  town  through  jealousy.'  In  this 
way  they  would  proceed  through  the  streets.  Always 
they  would  go  along  singing.  One  day  a  man  told^ 
the  king  of  this,  saying  :  '  There  are  two  boys  who 
I  think  are  your  sons.'     The  king  said,  '  Wherein  does 


THE   WRANGLING   WIVES  8i 

the  likeness  lie  ?  '  He  replied  :  '  O  king,  wait  until 
to-morrow  morning,  and  I  will  take  you  to  the  place 
where  they  ride.'  The  king  said  :  '  It  is  good.'  On 
the  morrow  they  proceeded  to  the  place  where  the 
youths  were  wont  to  come  and  waited  until  they 
arrived  and  commenced  their  song,  saying :  '  We  are 
king's  sons,  born  of  noble  parents  ;  we  were  cast 
away  behind  the  town  because  of  the  sting  of  jealousy.' 
When  the  king  heard  this  he  went  home  and  sum- 
moned his  courtiers.  He  questioned  them,  saying: 
*  What  shall  we  do  in  order  to  discover  the  mother  of 
these  boys?'  The  courtiers  made  reply :  'Command 
by  the  mouth  of  the  drummer  that  every  woman 
make  a  broth  and  bring  it  to  the  palace  gate  ;  when 
the  boys  come,  their  mother  is  she  whose  broth  they 
partake  of.'  The  dawn  broke,  and  the  food  was 
collected  at  the  gate  of  the  palace.  The  boys  came, 
but  they  partook  of  no  particular  food  because  that  of 
their  mother  was  not  included  ;  they  touched  none  of 
it.  Some  one  said  to  the  King :  '  There  is  a  certain 
woman  in  my  house.'  She  was  called  ;  she  brought 
a  bowl,  of  which  the  boys  ate.  The  king  seized  his 
head  wife  and  executed  her. 

THE    LEPER    AND    THE    BLIND    MAN 

A   FAIRY   TALE 

This  is  the  tale  of  the  leper  and  the  blind  man. 
They  lived  in  the  house  of  a  hunter  who  always  killed 
game  and  brought  it  to  them  to  eat ;  but  only  the  leper 

F 


82  TRANSLATIONS 

thanked  the  hunter.  The  blind  man  rated  the  leper, 
saying :  '  Why  are  you  grateful  ?  to  shoot  is  not  diffi- 
cult ;  even  I  myself,  if  I  had  a  bow  and  arrows, 
could  shoot/  He  was  constantly  talking  in  this  strain. 
One  day  the  leper  procured  for  him  a  bow  and  arrows. 
They  arose  and  began  walking.  The  blind  man 
carried  the  leper,  who  could  see,  but  had  not  the  use 
of  his  feet ;  they  walked  until  they  came  to  the  bush  ; 
they  saw  game,  and  the  leper  told  the  blind  man.  The 
blind  man  shot  an  arrow,  but  with  no  result ;  the 
leper  seized  the  bow  from  him,  shot  and  killed  the 
game.  The  blind  man  rejoiced  at  the  prospect  of 
meat.  They  searched  for  firewood  or  ever  they  skinned 
the  game,  so  as  to  cook  the  meat,  but  could  not  find 
any.  The  leper  perceived  one  of  the  teeth  of  Dodo 
and  said  to  the  blind  man  :  '  I  see  firewood.'  The 
blind  man  replied :  '  Go  and  bring  it'  He  went 
and  saw  Dodo  himself,  who  asked  him  what  he  was 
seeking  in  that  spot.  He  said  :  '  I  have  killed  game, 
that  is  my  case,  and  I  am  now  searching  for  firewood.' 
Dodo  said :  '  Go  and  bring  the  game,  there  is  firewood 
to  be  had  here.'  They  took  up  the  meat  and  brought 
it  to  where  Dodo  was,  who  seized  it  from  their  hands 
and  devoured  it.  The  blind  man  was  incensed  and 
began  to  quarrel  with  the  leper.  As  for  Dodo,  his 
plan  was  to  devour  them  and  so  increase  the  haul. 
The  blind  man  fled,  but  in  a  circle,  until  he  again 
arrived  at  the  abode  of  Dodo.  They  set  out  again, 
he  and  the  leper  ;  they  fled,  and  in  the  midst  of  their 
fleeing  the  blind  man  lost  the  road.     He  fell  into  a 


THE    LEPER   AND   THE    BLIND    MAN     83 

hole,  and  what  happened !  but  that  his  eyes  were 
opened.  He  emerged  rejoicing.  He  journeyed  on 
until  he  reached  home,  and  collected  all  the  blind  men. 
He  received  a  sum  of  money  from  each,  and  led  them 
to  the  hole.  They  all  fell  inside,  and  the  eyes  of  each 
were  opened.  But  he  said  :  '  I  will  fall  into  the  hole 
again ;  my  eyes  will  remain  open.'  But  when  he 
tumbled  into  the  hole  his  eyes  were  again  closed. 


F  2 


WAKA 


1  ^\^i^\^jd&\^^*JiU^f^i>{^)\j^J^ 


^.  .-f.-»    ^  •    s' 


-  ->14  -*  -.*  —•«* 


[45] 


WAKA 


[44] 


WAKA 


[43] 


WAKA 


i'.i^ 


[42] 


WAKA 


U'] 


MUTANE  ZINA 


A.jn^ 


=^_jii^  M^j4l; 


«*  -  • 


o  '-^ 


V 


•   • 


•  • 


V 


=  •  '^-^  trh5>^^^ 


'^ 


o         _ 


(^ 


n^^r^ 


[40] 


[39] 


MUTANE  ZINA 

I 


;_Jj  (4  jJI^  j;?m:^^  si^ 


«     —        « 


^liViss<r^  ti^f*^ 


V-cA-?* 


-»  -.   -  J 


»• 


ATTRIBUTES  OF  THE  PROPHET 


^  I     -  Nli  O 

or  oNili 


-1  -?r^^    4  ®l 


1 

%  ^  s  ^ 
«11 


ij^/ofi-j  ^1 


H 


C  a4 ^i^j^  CaLif 


[38] 


CIRCULAR  LETTER 


'g/ 


xJi^iiM 


■^-^'  k-^,^3^^ 


[37] 


CIRCULAR  LETTER 


r>  «*•   '  q  I  I     •  ;^  •«*<    I  ( 


.'.^-^  \  M>  oi\^g^4^->ji9  0.  ,r>i  ,^  (^^  «    ^  ;;r^  ^jv? 
)L-i*i^  c=oi!  ^=::fr^  1L^:^-JjI£^  ^  ,•.  Lk^         I 


_^— ^    y Lf  -£uw  oUj  ^   T-fB^f>  li^^   "  Jji,  L;^   .;  L^ 


/H 


1>      •♦      1^ 


[36] 


CIRCULAR  LETTER 


S^  *  I— f^  l4^  cril  ^, 


*i; 


^.^ 


_  j;     ^    ^-^    _    _  _ 

^J*'^^     jt\-^  '*^^  <=ri.^  *•  C^f"^  ^ 


«4^ 


[35] 


CIRCULAR  LETTER 


Cr- 


14-^  U^^i-i-«^»  )— »    c^l^^lj-C  ^-2^    A  ^JjLLe  ;a 


[34l 


CIRCULAR  LETTER 


-l-fej>b.J_4U;-a»    Li_i^^^S>-e  »-^-»    »-»5»    .i=»:=»(^ 


' — ^^ o  =i_i_Ji' LLitf  I  n  T.  i5_»  \  'i  w  ^»— '9   ^i^  r  *^ii^ 


^j/\  y  VL^   \cX  ci-i  ^^>-^=^'  cj^'  L-Litf^^  ^jLi 

[33] 


REFLECTIONS  ON  DEATH 


G  [32] 


REFLECTIONS  ON  DEATH 

^  ^-^  ):>.<nu  <?r^^  i^^ii:  i^;^^ 

[31] 


REFLECTIONS  ON  DEATH 

G  2  [30] 


REFLECTIONS  ON  DEATH 


[29] 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS 


•=3 


[2S] 


^*»-oac<>  ojl     / 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS 


.;       /    •  - ,  - 


«-^     .-.    »\./7  •■  •;  ^      yi    Li-^  .\rt  3_Li     -^L-J^.    13-^Lr 


Vfzi  oil  Lui 


»UC 


V— ou^  . .  ^_^»V»  LLEd  L-Lc  V4,>-»i   V^,^-^ 


-  V. 

.'.  r  J\    e  -V    » 


:x£ 


UU>^ 


AS2L^ 


■        I'--.   .     ir.-. 


|V»— o  ;=J^-iC 


^J  •  ^-\>-»-^/?^  vj  4-LS  ix^j  U^-= 


[27] 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS 

W:  id^  ^.  ^•i>^^  c>-4^M  ^-  cH?  ^^' 


^  \  ^^  li£  ^  c?  yLa^  ••.  i^l:3(J^ 


;^La  «%    t-J-^Ljj  /Q    t^ 


•>-'    z.   - 


[26] 


THE  WEDDED  PAIR 


•\j-^>»*»^^(_^l-^  _9^U»— i-i"    J^  )JJJ>  a  VjmJ^ 


=3    ^-il» 


[25] 


THE  WEDDED  PAIR 


'     "      r  -  -  •     - 


1-»'  )-^>-o  \-i-i« 


J>.S2. 


fc_^ JL^   V—j  L-j»  _£>_^: 


Lj 


»    .- 


-  Ur^-^  O'-^^-'^O^^  ^~  "^^  (Lri 


Lj 


-c/^ 


^i_^ 


(.. 


Jil  ^ 


»^-o  13  ia    u>^ 


erf 


*=-A 


-c^-^^ 


LJ  '■•._^-— >  ia»  ta,l_o^^jLj  Lj 


«j^ 


4), 


Lj 


^-XIJ/  jTj J  ft  W  :^  JU^  Ll,  =3>-A^«-L^^  ^^^  =^ 


/.-. 


1j  Jtoy  V-ILjLiu  3-lUyiiLc 


J»     ^_M| 


[24l 


THE  WEDDED  PAIR 


«     >      _   •      -        -    t. 


:h-iMJU 


;a-J?    (^u— ia-4-f.      iiiS  la-^  .svS-J  -^  Jiy  J^^yjJ: 


>— »^ &tt 


i>i.  Ui>=i<=^-^"U^  ^  *^'«=:M-5' o^ 


i=D  «^  c=^  a  .--o-i=  v^"*-*  ^*-i^  oi>^-*    •  /=P*^~^  ^  ^^ 


^^^^  ^r^  U  Lj^. cr^^'  ^  vj 


o       ..         •» 


>3  X5 


■^-  a 


[23] 


THE  WEDDED  PAIR 


Ui^  ..  U^  (J^^J^  Qffy  U.  Vi   U  U4  (>^ 
-?-^^-^'  Wcj^-^  V-ii  (j:^  ^rf^*  ^^  ^  ^* 


vr- 


i  ;  m 


■J^* 


_  ^. 


i- !»'      lu a-j  uJo     o_t>\-Ea 


^*— '  \  ~  _  ~       \         \         "         ;, 


^ 


^^r-'^=^  ^^Jj^  ijLjaJ-^  j-ii^  .^>_;.^_J^  ex^ 

(  A     - 

[22] 


THE  LEPER  AND  THE  BLIND  MAN 


j;Uli^ 


■L»*  i\sa 


/.'. 


\  ii^  ^>   ^^---^V-j"v.,^\  fe.^  •*•    -    \    « 


u^ 


yl^_^    »-«-^^— fr^^^^r-^  ^*.^*:.  ^>^-«r»»  -J^^-^-^  a  -i^ 


THE  WRANGLING  WIVES 


^ScJ^^cy^^.  -^- 


:5/>^L^    U  .^J.^ 


'•e^ 


[20] 


THE  WRANGLING  WIVES 


f 


12  .. 


jC    "y^-J  JQ  ]^     jLi-li>— >  ">    •'•  .     it* — *r^  Ij^-^ 


^  cri5>  ^]/-^^  -^\^^  Liii  [^ij  Li-m 


lii. 


-^^^  i.oi^  U  :;t3 


J     ^   ?    - 


.•.J--4 


J.r^ 


^l^-i  ^5^^j^ 


u\ 


[19] 


THE  WRANGLING  WIVES 


L18] 


THE  BOY  AND  THE  LION  CUB 


<-n    r    -   "*   ,  c •  -==»5» 


[17] 


THE  BOY  AND  THE  LION  CUB 
V--*  I  o  S  »  J  •'.  ,.  ,f"3^.~a  •— f  ^  >  .fn  .» 


-^  * '  ^  "ii-  v*,..^ 


/a 


L>»^J>^C^ 


hi  *^  *; 


lJ-  -  «■  - 


y^-^ 


>L^  L-T 


J us  o^:^ — to  . «--^ 


/  ,% 


p's»— *5, 


>  — 


V- • i— JW    ,    Mi I  1 »    -=3  S3   «  >— «i    >-==*  I    S 


H 


[i6] 


THE  BOY  AND  THE  LION  CUB 


-    "   ^    *   ""         S-Jc   I 1»     <^\  \^»   -» >A  .*.  rw^^ 


r-* 


jQ    »Sa>. 


5=»-^^--*5^ 


-    /a 


I  J^  Q  V  ^  V-»» 


V-J-^l 


J5S » 


_        «•      > 


->      .» 


«•     — 


^ij.  ^  >^  ;  V  <^^  V- i>\p  VJii  J^^j^  -^>-^* 


t     i'  u> 


^M'^-^^H 


[i5l 


THE  BOY  AND  THE  LION  CUB 

.  —  •« 


(  «^ — ^    S=»    '  J      ''^*       j^    ?    «   »  ^ 


—      •      -* 


—  **  i        A 


L-i  <« 


5= ^^f=3  I J     j^au-^  ^^— ^^^_«^  ^^—iUL. 


/      .       >    \         -  V  -  ^    /  /  •^    V     -  I  -    « 


I     •     «* 
1 — • — » 


-  l^-^.^o^r^ 


^^w — :i> — ^     \;a-^^^ — ^  L— I  -£=S^» 

V  V  :  ^r*^  ^   ^  ^  ^  ^'  ij^  4^  ^-^  L-3 


«    -  I   r    * 


-^ 


1-3  LJL-i  ^   T  .    ,  p  .:  ^  %)  ^  ^     <3.    v| — : 


;;^U  p^^j&U-^ 


H   2  [14] 


THE  HAWK,  THE  DOVE,  AND  THE  PROPHET 


J^;=»^!^^,_,ax  lo^t^^J^  w*-i-Q-^^4JJii 

^J_0  ^  L_^  i3 — X. — J^-.        *   \tt — £x— J^O^-^  ^—i  lf>-»  .*->,^  •    ^  "'JP^^. 


C 


Uu 


[13] 


MOSES  AND  HIS  MISSION 

v>J^  \4i^/f U-4  "^-i'  L-^  cJ"—^  ^"^ 
:^-Q;L_M^^tJ  Pi  "^-  u^ 


/<i  •  -  •'  " 


U 


3  )  r^^  *'•     c>^^ 


^'    T   ^ 


'    ^j^  ^jLi  Lii*(^  ye.-^  •'•  w  Crj9^ 


[12] 


MOSES  AND  HIS  MISSION 

U aii^zLfi  l^  Li#  u^-  ^c^^  ^ 


1 1^   > 


OU 


[II] 


THE  STORY  OF  JOSEPH 


0  _  ^ 


^      A 


-» -^ 


S^\y>  Ui^,n^^ f^ 


ptl^\i»if,t£i 


_        ♦♦ 


•  «  r  • 


-~-     « *  fl  »® 


c^rO^^^ 


e» 


*  ••  1  — 


^^^m 


«• 


«• 


-*n5^ 


[10] 


THE  STORY  OF  JOSEPH 


ali 


u 


W^J-^  \]^^^  ^  >  ^/>  ^^;J^>{^ 


•     o 


[9] 


OUR  ANCESTOR  ADAM 


^  /a 


•    _    •  * 


>  •  - 


[8] 


LETTER  f  ROM  A  MALL  AM 


i    oJ-T  iSJ:  ;3  .\   Lid  c?   S3  /  >u  LJ"  L*  a   Lj.d~o     Li Ji*    L.  o  ^-»  M* 


/%' 


C7] 


RIDDLES 


'-^---f. 


-A   V — 1» 


4«.  W*  ^  ,  iU-I-S-^   *  '^  ^ 


1«    •     \  » 


O^' 


[6] 


HOURS  OF  PRAYER 


^i  f^  ^cf.  h  Jtii^  ^  a  i^'y^ 


) 


<% 


«   - 


^ 


t% 


c? 


_  *  — 


•« 


[5] 


THE  DEADLY  SINS 


.%  JL53  *%  IL  ^  u  ^b^jH^  uj^J^ 


-  <*^  .1*»^"^'  ^**'   .^    A     * 


^'  S^»*t^    «4  |oJUiLdO 


—    o  • 


%      o  .    -i    o 


t  - 


Mis  •« 


^B^4,*ft<^     C 


=^.^    ^^'•--^^ 


[4] 


COMMON  MAXIMS 


;.|  '^^J^yl^  >\s^  >^  V  W  ^i^p 


3y 


-*'^.-' 


^|.iiaJ  jiu/ijU!  j^^  f^j^     U  ^  )-^  ^ 


[3] 


FIFTEEN  PROVERBS 


lL-5" 


'..5^ 


^  •  .-         •    -'  I  -  .'         _   -   v  - 


[^1 


FACSIMILES 


14  DAY  USE 

RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 
LOAN  DEPT. 


1.1  •    1      _    .1    1 1 


RITUKNED  TO 
MTHKO  LIB, 

APR  17  1973 


110  \3  ^^ 


r.  f-fi  ^9  (XW  5  9 


■  t\A 


\3CIA 

ftB2  8^974 


iaBHsarast^'jui.^:'  f'ssw^ffli 


U.  C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CDSE11EES5 


%■' 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


••■>■■■«■■«■ 


