mirm 

iflfff 

Mi! 

HwlVv  A;% 

ImPl 

HU 

De  Aston  School, 


MARKET  RASEN. 


•©e-  PRIZE.  ^3* 


Awarded  to  . 


(I  >. 

IzAjI iLw. sl. 


( "yi  u ^vl\ 


lw^U>  • |(A4 

(?.  tlUrl 


Head  Master. 


THE  HISTORY 

OF 


DON  QUIXOTE 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2017  with  funding  from 
Boston  Public  Library 


https://archive.org/details/historyofdonquix00cerv_1 


mim 

mm: 


pwa. 

' hS^ 

VBSvVl 

BHBB^  yrl 

mWttmim 

IMlHSil 

M 

.m*wRP 

tJmr*k  liio 

*W'r 

jnSSjal  IMUjMlJ 

“A  world  of  disorderly  notions,  picked  out  of  his  books,  crowded  into  his  imagination.” — p.  3. 


THE  HISTORY 


OF 

QUIXOT 


BY  CERVANTES 


THE  TEXT  EDITED  BY 

J.  JV.  CLARK  M.A . 

FELLOW  OF  TRINITY  COLI.EGE  CAMBRIDGE 

AND  A BIOGRAPHICAL  NOTICE  OF  CERVANTES 

BY 

T.  TE/GNMOUTH  SHORE  M.A . 


ILLUSTRATED  BY 

GUSTAVE  DOPE 


CASSELL  and  COMPANY  Limited 


LONDON  PARIS  & MELBOURNE 


7=>Gl6>323 

.bus 

)M% 


CONTENTS. 


PART  I. 

CHAPTER  I. 

PAGE 

The  quality  and  way  of  living  of  the  renowned  Don  Quixote  dc  la  Mancha , , r , i 

CHAPTER  II. 

Of  Don  Quixote's  first  sally ....  6 

CHAPTER  III. 

A'n  account  of  the  pleasant  method  taken  by  Don  Quixote  to  be  dubbed  a knight  . . . . , . , „ . -12 

CHAPTER  IV. 

H 'hat  befell  the  knight  after  he  had  left  the  inn 18 

CHAPTER  V. 

A further  account  of  our  knight's  misfortunes 26 

CHAPTER  VI. 

Of  the  pleasant  and  curious  scrutiny  which  the  curate  and  the  barber  made  of  the  library  of  our  ingenious  gentleman  . . . 32 

CHAPTER  VII. 

Don  Quixote's  second  sally  in  quest  of  adventures 38 

CHAPTER  VIII. 


Of  the  good  success  which  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  had  in  the  most  terrifying  and  never-to-be-imagined  adventure  of  the 


windmills , with  other  transactions  worthy  to  be  transmitted  to  posterity 45 

CHAPTER  IX. 

The  event  of  the  most  stupendous  combat  between  the  brave  Biscayan  and  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  . . . . , .54 

CHAPTER  X. 

What  farther  befell  Don  Quixote  with  the  Biscayan ; and  of  the  danger  he  ran  among  a parcel  of  Yanguesians  . . , „ 58 

CHAPTER  XI. 

What  passed  between  Don  Quixote  and  the  goatherds  . . . • 63 

CHAPTER  XII. 

The  story  which  a young  goatherd  told  to  those  that  were  with  Don  Quixote . .69 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

A continuation  of  the  story  of  Marcella  ■ 74 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

The  unfortunate  shepherd's  verses , and  other  unexpected  matters 81 

CHAPTER  XV. 

Giving  an  account  of  Don  Quixote's  unfortunate  rencounter  with  certain  bloody-minded  and  wicked  Yanguesian  carriers  . . 87 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

What  happened  to  Don  Quixote  in  the  inn  which  he  took  for  a castle  .94 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

Of  the  discourse  between  the  knight  and  the  squire . with  other  matters  worih  relating  , „ ......  103 

a 


VI  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

CHAPTER  XVIII.  Page. 

Of  the  wise  discourse  between  Sancho  and  his  master ; us  also  of  the  adventure  of  the  dead  corpse , and  other  famous  occurrences  . 1 1 1 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

Of  a wonderful  adventure  achieved  by  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ; the  like  never  compassed  with  less  danger  by 

any  of  the  most  famous  knights  in  the  world  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .117 

CHAPTER  XX. 

Of  the  high  adventure  and  conquest  of  Mambrino's  helmet,  with  other  events  relating  to  our  invincible  knight  . . . - 128 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

How  Don  Quixote  set  free  many  miserable  creatures,  who  were  being  taken,  much  against  their  wills,  to  a place  they  did  not  like  13  7 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

What  befell  the  renowned  Don  Quixote  in  the  Sierra  Morena  ( Black  Mountain)  being  one  of  the  rarest  adventures  in  this 

authentic  history  .....................  j_^- 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

The  adventure  in  the  Sierra  Morena  (continued)  . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . .161 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

Of  the  strange  things  that  happened  to  the  valiant  knight  of  La  Mancha  in  the  black  mountain;  and  of  the  penance  he  did  there, 

in  imitation  of  Beltenebros,  or  the  lovely  obscure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .168 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

A continuation  of  the  refined  extravagances  by  which  the  gallant  knight  of  La  Mancha  chose  to  express  his  love  in  the  Sierra 

Morena 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

How  the  curate  and  barber  put  their  design  in  execution;  with  other  things  worthy  to  be  recorded  in  this  important  history  188 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

The  pleasant  new  adventure  the  curate  and  barber  met  with  in  Sierra  Morena,  or  Black  Mountain  . . , . 19  j 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

An  account  of  the  beautiful  Dorotheas  discretion,  with  other  pleasant  passages  ..........  212 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

The  pleasant  stratagems  used  to  free  the  enamoured  knight  from  the  rigorous  penance  which  he  had  undertaken  ....  224 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

The  pleasant  dialogue  between  Don  Quixote  and  his  squire  continued,  with  other  adventures  ........  233 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

What  befell  Don  Quixote  and  his  company  at  the  inn 240 

CHAPTER  XXXII. 

Containing  an  account  of  many  surprising  accidents  in  the  inn 249 

CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

The  history  of  the  famous  Princess  Micomicona  continued,  with  other  pleasant  adventures  256 

CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

A continuation  of  Don  Quixote’s  curious  discourse  upon  arms  and  learning  .....  .....  263 

CHAPTER  XXXV. 

Where  the  captive  relates  his  life  and  adventures 267 

CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

The  story  of  the  captive  continued . ...  274 

CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

The  adventures  of  the  captive  continued ..  284 

CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 

An  account  of  what  happened  in  the  inn , with  several  other  occurrences  worth  notice *301 

CHAPTER  XXXIX. 

The  pleasant  story  of  the  young  muleteer,  with  other  strange  adventures  that  happened  in  the  inn  . 


• 306 


CONTENTS. 


V1J 

CHAPTER  XL.  PACB 

A continuation  of  the  strange  adventures  in  the  inn 1 - 

CHAPTER  XLI. 

The  controversy  about  Mambrino's  helmet  and  the  jack-saddle  disputed  and  decided  : with  other  accidents , not  more  strange  than 

true 32I 

CHAPTER  XLII. 

The  notable  adventure  of  the  officers  of  the  holy  brotherhood,  with  Don  Quixote's  great  ferocity  and  enchantment  ....  326 

CHAPTER  XLHI. 

Prosecuting  the  course  of  Don  Quixotds  enchantment,  with  other  memorable  occurrences .333 

CHAPTER  XI.IV. 

Containing  a continuation  of  the  canon's  discourse  upon  boohs  of  knight-errantry,  and  other  curious  matter  ......  34.2 

CHAPTER  XLV. 

A relation  of  the  wise  conference  between  Sancho  and  his  master , 346 

CHAPTER  XLVI. 

The  notable  dispute  between  the  canon  and  Don  Quixote;  with  other  matters «,  . , . .353 

CHAPTER  XLVI I. 

The  goatherd's  tale 360 

CHAPTER  XLVIII. 

Of  the  combat  between  Don  Quixote  and  the  goatherd;  with  the  rare  adventure  of  the  penitents,  which  the  knight  happily 

accomplished  with  the  sweat  of  his  brows 366 


PART  II. 


CHAPTER  I. 

What  passed  between  the  curate,  the  barber , and  Don  Quixote,  concerning  his  indisposition 379 

CHAPTER  II. 

Of  the  memorable  quarrel  between  Sancho  Panza  and  Don  Quixote's  niece  and  housekeeper ; with  other  pleasant  passages  . 388 

CHAPTER  III. 

The  pleasant  discourse  between  Don  Quixote , Sancho  Panza,  and  the  bachelor  Samson  Carrasco  .......  393 

CHAPTER  IV. 

Sancho  Panza  satisfies  the  bachelor,  Samson  Carrasco,  in  his  doubts  and  queries ; with  other  passages  fit  to  be  known  and  related  400 

CHAPTER  V. 

The  wise  and  pleasant  dia’ogue  between  Sancho  Panza  and  Teresa  Panza,  his  wife : together  with  other  passages  worthy  oj 

happy  memory 40*5 

CHAPTER  VI. 

What  passed  between  Don  Quixote , his  niece,  and  the  housekeeper ; being  one  of  the  most  important  chapters  in  the  whole  history  41 1 


CHAPTER  VII. 

An  account  of  Don  Quixote's  conference  with  his  squire,  and  other  most  famous  passages  ....... 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

Don  Quixote' s success  in  his  journey  to  visit  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  . ....... 

CHAPTER  IX. 

That  gives  an  account  of  things  winch  you  will  know  when  you  read  it  . ........ 

CHAPTER  X. 

How  Sancho  cunningly  found  out  a way  to  enchant  the  Lady  Dulcinea,  with  other  passages  no  less  certain  than  ridiculous 


Vlll 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


CHAPTER  XI.  pagk 

Of  the  stupendous  adventure  that  befell  the  valorous  Don  Quixote,  with  the  chariot  or  cart  of  the  court  or  parliament  of  death  . 4.39 

CHAPTER  XII. 

The  valorous  Don  Quixote's  strange  adventure  with  the  bold  knight  of  the  mirrors  .........  443 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

The  adventure  with  the  knight  of  the  wood  continued , with  the  wise , rare,  and  pleasant  discourse  that  passed  between  the  two 

squires  45 1 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

A continuation  of  the  adventure  of  the  knight  of  the  wood  ..............  456 

CHAPTER  XV. 

Giving  an  account  who  the  knight  of  the  mirrors  and  his  squire  were  . . . 464 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

What  happened  to  Don  Quixote  with  a sober  gentleman  of  La  Mancha  ...........  466 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

Where  you  will  find  set  forth  the  highest  and  utmost  proof  that  great  Don  Quixote  ever  gave,  or  could  give,  of  his  incredible 

courage,  with  the  successful  issue  of  the  adventure  of  the  lions 473 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

How  Don  Quixote  was  entertained  at  the  castle  or  house  of  the  knight  of  the  green  coat,  with  other  extravagant  passages  . . ^82 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

The  adventure  of  the  amorous  shepherd,  and  other  truly  comical  passages  ...........  490 

CHAPTER  XX. 

An  account  of  rich  Camacho's  wedding,  and  what  befell  poor  Basil  ............  495 

CHAPTER  XXL 

The  progress  of  Camacho's  wedding,  with  other  delightful  accidents , 505 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

A n account  of  the  great  adventure  of  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  situated  in  the  heart  of  La  Mancha,  which  the  valorous  Don 

Quixote  successfully  achieved  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .512 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

Of  the  wonderful  things  which  the  unparalleled  Don  Quixote  declared  he  had  seen  in  the  deep  cave  of  Montesinos,  the  greatness 

and  impossibility  of  which  makes  this  adventure  pass  for  apocryphal 52  c 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

Which  gives  an  account  of  a thousand  flimflams  and  stories,  as  impertinent  as  necessary  to  the  right  understanding  of  this 

grand  history 53* 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

Where  you  find  the  grounds  of  the  braying  adventures,  that  of  the  puppet-player,  and  the  memorable  divining  of  the  fortune- 
telling ape 536 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

A pleasant  account  of  the  puppet-play , with  other  very  good  things  truly 544 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Wherein  is  discovered  who  master  Peter  was,  and  his  ape  ; as  also  Don  Quixote  s ill  success  in  the  braying  adventure ; which 

did  not  end  so  happily  as  he  desired  and  expected 552 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

Of  some  things  which  Bevengeli  tells  us  he  that  reads  shall  know,  if  he  reads  them  with  attention 559 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

The  famous  adventure  of  the  enchanted  barque 564 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

What  happened  to  Don  Quixote  with  the  fair  huntress 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

Which  treats  of  many  and  great  matters  ....  576 


CONTENTS. 


IX 


CHAPTER  XXXII.  -acs 

Don  Quixote' s answer  to  his  reprover,  with  other  grave  and  merry  accidents . . . . . . . . , *584 

CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

The  savoury  conference  which  the  duchess  and  her  women  held  with  Sancho  Panza,  worth  your  reading  and  observation  . . 594 

CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

Containing  ways  and  means  for  disenchanting  the  peerless  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  being  one  of  the  most  famous  adventures  in  the 


whole  book  ......................  gOI 

CHAPTER  XXXV. 

Wherein  is  contained  the  information  %ivcn  to  Don  Quixote  how  to  disenchant  Dulcinea,  with  other  wonderful  passages  . . 607 

CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

The  strange  and  7iever  thought-of  adventure  of  the  disconsolate  matron,  alias  the  Countess  Trifaldi,  with  Sancho  Panza  s 

letter  to  his  wife,  Teresa  Panza 614 

CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

The  famous  adventure  of  the  disconsolate  matron  continued . . . .619 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 

The  account  which  the  disconsolate  matron  gives  of  her  misfortune 

CHAPTER  XXXIX. 


Where  Trifaldi  continues  her  stupendous  and  memorable  story » 626 

CHAPTER  XL. 

Of  some  things  that  relate  to  this  adventure,  and  appertain  to  this  memorable  story  ........  , 629 

CHAPTER  XLI. 

Of  Clavileno's  ( alias  Wooden  Peg's ) arrival,  with  the  conclusion  of  this  tedious  adventure  634 

CHAPTER  XLII. 


The  instructions  which  Don  Quixote  gave  Sancho  Panza  before  he  went  io  the  government  of  his  island,  with  other  matters 


of  moment 6^2 

CHAPTER  XLIII. 

The  second  part  of  Don  Quixote's  advice  to  Sancho  Panza  647 

CHAPTER  XLIV. 

How  Sancho  Panza  was  carried  to  his  government,  and  of  the  strange  adventure  that  befell  Don  Quixote  in  the  castle  . .651 

CHAPTER  XLV. 

How  the  great  Sancho  Panza  took  possession  of  his  island,  and  in  what  manner  he  began  to  govern 660 

CHAPTER  XLVI. 

Of  the  dreadful  alarm  given  to  Don  Quixote  by  the  bells  and  cats,  during  the  course  of  Altisidord s amour  ....  665 

CHAPTER  XLVI I. 

A further  account  of  Sancho  Panza' s behaviour  in  his  government  . . 67c 

CHAPTER  XLVIII. 


What  happened  to  Don  Quixote  with  Donna  Rodriguez , the  duchess's  woman ; as  also  other  passages  worthy  to  be  recorded 


and  had  in  eternal  remembrance 678 

CHAPTER  XLIX. 

What  happened  to  Sancho  Panza  as  he  went  the  rounds  in  his  island  . ........  685 

CHAPTER  L. 


In  which  is  declared  who  were  the  enchanters  and  executioners  that  whipped  the  duenna,  and  pinched  and  scratchca  Don 

Quixote  j with  the  success  of  the  page  who  carried  the  letter  to  Teresa  Panza,  Sancho' s wife  .....  694 

CHAPTER  LI. 

A continuation  of  Sancho  Panza's  government,  with  other  passages,  such  as  they  are  

CHAPTER  LIE 

A relation  of  the  adventures  of  the  second  disconsolate  or  distressed  matron,  otherwise  called  Donna  Rodriguez  . . . c 70S 

CHAPTER  LIII. 

The  toilsome  end  and  conclusion  of  Sancho  Panza's  government  714 


X 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


CHAPTER  LIV. 

Which  treats  of  matters  that  relate  to  this  history,  and  no  other 721 

CHAPTER  LV. 

What  happened  to  Sancho  by  the  way,  with  other  matters  which  you  vjill  have  ?:o  more  to  do  than  to  see 72/ 

CHAPTER  LVI. 

Of  the  extraordinary  and  unaccountable  combat  between  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  and  the  lackey  Tosilos,  in  vindication  of 

the  matron  Donna  Rodrigues' s daughter  734 

CHAPTER  LVI I. 

How  Don  Quixote  took  his  leave  of  the  duke,  and  what  passed  between  him  and  the  witty  wanton  Altisidora,  the  duchess's 

damsel  .............  ........  739 

CHAPTER  LVI  II. 

How  adventures  crowded  so  thick  and  threefold  on  Don  Quixote,  that  they  troa  upon  one  another  s heels  .....  744 

CHAPTER  LIX. 

Of  an  extraordinary  accident  that  happened  to  Don  Quixote,  which  may  well  pass  for  an  adventure  .....  754 

CHAPTER  LX. 

What  happened  to  Don  Quixote  going  to  Barcelona 760 

CHAPTER  LXI. 

Don  Quixote's  entry  into  Barcelona,  with  other  accidents  that  have  less  ingenuity  than  truth  in  them  „ 773 

CHAPTER  LXII. 

The  adventure  of  the  enchanted  head,  with  other  impertinences  not  to  be  omitted  . 778 

CHAPTER  LXI II. 

Of  Sancho' s misfortunes  on  board  the  galleys,  with  the  strange  adventure  of  the  beautiful  Morisca  ( Moorish ) lady  . . . 790 

CHAPTER  LX IV. 

Of  an  unlucky  adventure,  which  Don  Quixote  laid  most  to  heart  of  any  that  had  yet  befallen  him 797 

CHAPTER  LXV. 

An  account  of  the  knight  of  the  white  moon,  Don  Gregorio's  enlargement,  and  other  passages 802 

CHAPTER  LXVI. 

Which  treats  of  that  which  shall  be  seen  by  him  that  reads  it,  and  heard  by  him  that  listens  when  it  is  read  ....  806 

CHAPTER  LXVII. 

How  Don  Quixote  resolved  to  turn  shepherd,  and  lead  a rural  life  for  the  year's  time  he  was  obliged  not  to  bear  arms ; with 

other  passages  truly  good  and  diverting 812 

CHAPTER  LXVII I. 

The  adventure  of  the  hogs 816 

CHAPTER  LXIX. 

Of  the  most  singular  and  strange  adventure  that  befell  Don  Quixote  in  the  whole  course  of  this  famous  history  . . . 822 

CHAPTER  LXX. 

Which  comes  after  the  sixty-ninth,  and  contains  several  particulars  necessary  for  the  illustration  of  this  history  . . . 827 

CHAPTER  LXXI. 

What  happened  to  Don  Quixote  and  his  squire  on  their  way  home  ..-..,..,..<>9  833 

CHAPTER  LXXII. 

How  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  got  home 839 

CHAPTER  LXXI  II. 

Of  the  ominous  accidents  that  crossed  Don  Quixote  as  he  entered  his  village,  with  other  transactions  that  illustrate  and  adorn 

this  memorable  history 843' 

CHAPTER  LXX IV. 

How  Don  Quixote  fell  sick,  made  his  last  will,  and  died 849 


LIST  OF  FULL-PAGE  ILLUSTRATIONS 


PART  I. 


“ A WORLD  OF  DISORDERLY  NOTIONS,  PICKED  OUT  OF  HIS  BOOKS,  CROWDED  INTO  HIS  IMAGINATION  ” Frontispiece 

“ He  TRAVELLED  ALMOST  ALL  THAT  DAY  n ..........  1 

“He  began  to  walk  about  by  the  horse-trough  with  a graceful  deportment”  ....  14 

“By  the  sun  that  shines,  I HAVE  a good  mind  to  run  thee  through  the  body  with  my  lance”  . 19 

“In  spite  of  his  arms,  he  thrashed  him  like  a wheat-sheaf”  ......  22 

“‘Alas!  where  are  you,  lady  dear,  that  for  my  woe  you  do  not  moan?”’  ....  27 

“He  led  them  all  towards  the  village,  and  trudged  a-foot  himself,  very  pensive”  ...  30 

“ The  knight  made  him  so  many  fair  promises,  that  at  last  the  poor  silly  clown  consented  to  go 

ALONG  WITH  HIM,  AND  BECOME  HIS  SQUIRE  ” 40 

“ It  was  yet  early  in  the  morning,  at  which  time  the  sunbeams  did  not  prove  so  offensive  ” . 43 

“ The  sail  hurled  away  both  knight  and  horse  along  with  it  ” . . , . .46 

“ Sancho  ran  as  fast  as  his  ass  could  drive,  to  help  his  master  ” . . . . . .48 

“ ‘Oh,  happy  age,’  cried  he,  ‘which  our  first  parents  called  the  age  of  gold!’  ” . . .65 

“A  MEADOW  WATERED  WITH  A RIVULET,  INVITED  THEM  TO  ALIGHT”  ......  86 

“ The  Yanguesians  betook  themselves  to  their  levers  and  pack-staves  ” . . . . .89 

“ Leading  the  ass  by  the  halter,  he  took  the  nearest  way  he  could  guess  to  the  high  road  . 92 

“He  verily  believed  his  last  hour  was  come”  ........  97 

“ ‘ I HAVE  NOTHING  TO  DO  WITH  ALL  THIS,’  CRIED  THE  INNKEEPER  : ‘ PAY  YOUR  RECKONING  ’ ” . . . 99 

“The  more  he  stormed,  the  more  they  tossed  and  laughed  ”......  ior 

“He  charged  the  squadron  of  sheep”  ..........  107 

“Don  Quixote,  accompanied  by  his  intrepid  heart,  leaped  upon  Rozinante”  . . . .118 

“When  they  came  nearer,  even  patient  Rozinante  himself  started  at  the  dreadful  sound”.  . 123 

“Don  Quixote  asked  the  first  for  what  crimes  he  was  in  these  miserable  circumstances”  . . 139 

“ ‘ Sancho,  I have  always  heard  it  said,  that  to  do  a kindness  to  clowns,  is  like  throwing  water 

into  the  sea’”  ............  Ij:6 

“It  was  night  before  our  two  travellers  got  to  the  most  desert  part  of  the  mountain”  . . 148 

“ Gines,  who  was  a stranger  both  to  gratitude  and  humanity,  resolved  to  ride  away  with  Sancho’s  ass”.  150 

“ Don  Quixote  was  transported  with  joy  to  find  himself  where  he  might  flatter  his  ambition  with 

THE  HOPES  OF  FRESH  ADVENTURES”  . . . . . . . . .152 

'“The  first  thing  he  found  was  the  rough  draught  of  a sonnet;  so  he  read  it  aloud”  . . 154 

“ He  spied  upon  the  top  of  a stony  crag  just  before  him  a man  that  skipped  from  rock  to  rock 

WITH  WONDERFUL  AGILITY”.  ..........  156 


XII 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“They  came  to  a park,  where  they  found  a mule  lying  dead”  ...... 

“ ‘But  pray,  sir,’  quoth  Sancho,  ‘ is  it  a good  law  of  chivalry  that  says  we  shall  wander  up  and 

DOWN,  OVER  BUSHES  AND  BRIARS,  IN  THIS  ROCKY  WILDERNESS?’”  . . . . . 

“ He  GAVE  TWO  OR  THREE  FRISKS  IN  THE  AIR,  AND  THEN  PITCHING  ON  HIS  HANDS,  HE  FETCHED  HIS  HEELS 
OVER  HIS  HEAD  TWICE  TOGETHER  ” . . . . . . . ... 

“They  spied  a youth  in  a country  habit,  sitting  at  the  foot  of  a rock  behind  an  ash-tree” 

“ ‘ He  got  a number  of  love-letters  transmitted  to  me,  every  one  full  of  the  tenderest  expressions’  ” 

“‘I  AM  YOURS  THIS  MOMENT,  BEAUTIFUL  DOROTHEA:  SEE,  I GIVE  YOU  HERE  MY  HAND  TO  BE  YOURS’” 

“ ‘ With  the  little  strength  I had  I pushed  him  down  a precipice,  where  I left  him 
“‘Alas!’  answered  Sancho,  ‘I  found  him  in  his  shirt,  lean,  pale,  and  almost  starved,  sighing  for 
his  Lady  Dulcinea  ’ ” . 

“They  went  on  for  about  three  quarters  of  a league,  and  then  among  the  rocks  they  spied  Don 
Quixote,  who  had  by  this  time  put  on  his  clothes,  though  not  his  armour  ” 

“‘Now,  lady,’  said  Don  Quixote,  ‘let  me  entreat  your  greatness  to  tell  me  which  way  we  must  go, 

TO  DO  YOU  SERVICE  ’”  . 

“ Towards  the  kingdom  of  Micomicon  ” . 

“ How  Don  Diego  Garcia  with  his  single  force  defended  the  passage  of  a bridge  against  a great  army”. 
“How  Felixmarte  cut  off  five  giants  by  the  middle”  ....... 

“ Lucinda,  finding  herself  in  his  power,  fell  into  a swoon  ”...... 

“They  cut  off  his  head,  and  brought  it  to  the  Turkish  general”  . 

“ At  LAST  I RESOLVED  TO  TRUST  A RENEGADE  OF  MURCIA,  WHO  HAD  SHOWN  ME  GREAT  PROOFS  OF  HIS  KINDNESS  ” . 

“ Her  father  came  HASTILY  to  US,  AND,  SEEING  his  DAUGHTER  in  THIS  CONDITION,  asked  her  what  was 
THE  MATTER 

“ ZORAIDA,  SHOWING  TROUBLE  IN  HER  LOOKS,  WENT  AWAY  WITH  HER  FATHER  ” . 

“ ZORAIDA  ALL  THIS  WHILE  HID  HER  FACE,  THAT  SHE  MIGHT  NOT  SEE  HER  FATHER  ” . 

“‘Come  back,  my  dear  daughter,  for  I forgive  thee  all’”  ....... 

“They  being  under  the  wind,  fired  two  guns  at  us” 

“He  had  inevitably  fallen  to  the  ground,  had  not  his  wrist  been  securely  fastened  to  the  rope” 
“‘Be  not  impatient,  O Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  at  your  imprisonment’”  . . . . 

“ Don  Quixote  was  not  so  much  amazed  at  his  enchantment  as  at  the  manner  of  it  ” . 

“The  curate  was  very  attentive,  and  believed  him  a man  of  a sound  judgment” 

“ A VAST  LAKE  OF  BOILING  PITCH,  IN  WHICH  AN  INFINITE  MULTITUDE  OF  FIERCE  AND  TERRIBLE  CREATURES 
ARE  TRAVERSING  BACKWARDS  AND  FORWARDS”  ........ 

“ The  sky  appears  to  him  more  transparent,  and  the  sun  seems  to  shine  with  a redoubled  brightness  ” . 
“ Another  damsel  comes  into  the  room,  and  begins  to  inform  him  what  castle  that  is,  and  how  she 

IS  ENCHANTED  IN  IT  ” 

“ There  was  not  that  country  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  which  he  had  not  seen,  nor  battle  which 

HE  HAD  NOT  BEEN  ENGAGED  IN  ” . 

“A  PARTY  WITH  OFFICERS  IS  SENT  OUT,  WHO  FIND  THE  POOR  FOND  LeANDRA  IN  A CAVE  OF  ONE  OF  THE  MOUNTAINS” 

“Sancho  Panza  alone  was  vexed,  fretted  himself  to  death,  and  raved  like  a madman” 

“The  woful  accents  of  the  squire’s  voice  at  last  recalled  Don  Quixote  to  himself”. 


PACK 

159 

171 

i Sc 

201 

204 

207 

2 10 

213 

217 

22c 

223 

241 

243 

255 

272 

277 

2S7 

285 

292 

295 

297 

3r3 

330 

335 

34c 

352 

354 

357 

362 

364 

367 

37i 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


X1U 


PART  II. 

PAGE 

“We  slept  as  soundly  as  if  we  had  four  feather-beds  under  us”  . . . . . .401 

‘“Friend  Sancho,’  said  Don  Quixote,  ‘I  find  the  approaching  night  will  overtake  us  ere  we  can 

REACH  TOBOSO’”  ............  422 

“ Don  Quixote  gazed  with  dubious  and  disconsolate  eyes  on  the  creature  whom  Sancho  called  queen 

AND  LADY  435 

“The  fool  of  the  play  came  up  frisking  with  his  morrice  bells”.  .....  442 

“ In  such  discourses  they  passed  a great  part  of  the  night  ”......  447 

“He  posted  himself  just  before  the  door  of  the  cage”  . . . . . . .478 

“ Oh,  ye  Tobosian  urns  ! THAT  awaken  in  my  mind  the  thoughts  of  the  sweet  pledge  of  my  most  bitter 

sorrows!”  .............  483 

“ To  ALL  THIS  FINE  EXPOSTULATION  SANCHO  ANSWERED  NOT  A WORD  ” . . . • • 49^ 

Arrival  of  Don  Quixote  at  the  wedding  of  Camacho  and  Quiteria  .....  499 

“Make  shift  to  stay  your  stomach  with  that  till  dinner  be  ready”  .....  501 

“They  were  led  up  by  a reverend  old  man  and  a matronly  woman”  .....  503 

“The  poor  virgin,  trembling  and  dismayed,  without  speaking  a word,  came  to  poor  basil”  . . 507 

“ Poor  Sancho  followed  his  master  with  a heavy  heart  ” . . . . . . • 5 1 1 

“Sancho  and  his  master  tarried  three  days  with  the  young  couple,  and  were  entertained  like  princes”  513 

“An  infinite  number  of  overgrown  crows  and  daws  came  rushing  and  fluttering  out  of  the  cave”.  517 

“They  found  that  his  eyes  were  closed,  as  if  he  had  been  fast  asleep”  ...  519 

“The  venerable  Montesinos  fell  on  his  knees  before  the  afflicted  knight”  ....  523 

“I  SAW  A MOURNFUL  PROCESSION  OF  MOST  BEAUTIFUL  DAMSELS,  ALL  IN  BLACK”  .....  525 

“At  THESE  WORDS  DON  QUIXOTE  STOOD  AMAZED”  ........  54I 

“ Observe  what  a vast  company  of  glittering  horse  comes  pouring  out  of  the  city,  in  pursuit  of 

the  Christian  lovers”  . . . . . . . . . . .547 

“According  to  the  laws  of  arms,  you  really  injure  yourselves,  in  thinking  yourselves  affronted”  . 557 

“They  were  both  hauled  ashore,  more  over-drenched  than  thirsty”  .....  569 

“ Don  Quixote  descried  a company,  whom,  upon  a nearer  view,  he  judged  to  be  persons  of  quality”  . 573 

“‘Go,  great  and  mighty  sir,’  said  they,  ‘and  help  my  lady  duchess  down’”  . . . . 577 

“ At  the  duchess’s  request,  he  related  the  whole  passage  of  the  late  pretended  enchantment  very 

faithfully”.  ............  595 

“ The  figure  in  the  gown  stood  up  ” . . . . . . . . . 608 

“The  morn  began  to  spread  her  smiling  looks  in  the  eastern  quarter  of  the  skies”  . . . 613 

“He  kissed  the  duke  and  duchess’s  hand  at  parting,  and  received  his  master’s  benediction”  . . 653 

“Here  the  courting  damsel  ended  her  song”  . . . . . . • • 657 

The  lord  governor  Sancho  Panza  administering  justice  . . . . . . .661 

“ ‘ Pray,  my  lord  Don  Quixote,  retire,  for  this  poor  young  creature  will  not  come  to  herself  while 

you  are  by’”  . . . . . . . . . • . • 667 

“‘Absit!’  cried  the  doctor”  . . . . . . . . • . .671 

“Don  Quixote,  thus  unhappily  hurt,  was  extremely  sullen  and  melancholy”  ....  679 

“‘Bless  me! ’cried  she,  ‘what  is  this?’”  .........  681 

“ ‘ March  !’ quoth  Sancho.  ‘How  do  you  think  I am  able  to  do  it?”’  . . . • 7r5 

b 


XIV 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“‘Come  hither,’  said  he,  ‘my  friend;  thou  faithful  companion  and  fellow-sharer  in  all  my  travels 

AND  MISERIES  ’ ” 

“‘Oh!  MY  DEAR  COMPANION  AND  FRIEND,’  SAID  HE  TO  HIS  ASS,  ‘how  ILL  HAVE  I REQUITED  THY  FAITHFUL 
SERVICES ! ’ ” . 

“He  ACQUAINTED  THE  DUKE  AND  DUCHESS  WITH  HIS  SENTIMENTS,  AND  BEGGED  THEIR  LEAVE  TO  DEPART” 

“ ‘ NOW,  SIR,  IF  YOU  PLEASE  TO  AFFORD  US  YOUR  COMPANY,  YOU  SHALL  BE  MADE  VERY  WELCOME  ’ ” 

“They  trampled  them  under  foot  at  an  unmerciful  rate”  ....... 

“ A CLEAR  FOUNTAIN,  WHICH  DON  QUIXOTE  AND  SaNCHO  FOUND  AMONG  SOME  VERDANT  TREES,  SERVED  TO 
REFRESH  THEM 

“ He  told  the  gentlemen  the  whole  STORY  of  her  being  enchanted  ” . . . 

“ He  called  out  to  Don  Quixote  for  help  ” . ...... 

“Don  Quixotf;,  mounted  on  Rozinante,  declaiming  very  copiously  against  their  way  of  living” 

“The  squires  left  Don  Quixote,  Roque,  and  Sancho  to  wait  their  return”  . 

“‘Thus  it  is  I punish  mutiny,’  said  he” 

“ Don  Quixote  stayed  there,  waiting  the  approach  of  day  ”...... 

“ Enclosing  him  in  the  middle  of  their  brigade,  they  conducted  him  towards  the  city  ” 

“Don  Antonio’s  wife  had  invited  several  of  her  friends  to  a ball,  to  honour  her  guest”  . 

“ Two  LADIES  MADE  THEIR  COURT  CHIEFLY  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  ” 

“ ‘Tell  me,  thou  oracle,’  said  he,  ‘was  what  I reported  of  my  adventures  in  the  cave  of  Montesinos 
A DREAM  or  reality  ’”  . 

“They  found  him  pale,  and  in  a cold  sweat”.  ........ 

“Here  fell  my  happiness,  never  to  rise  again”  ........ 

“They  passed  that  day,  and  four  more  after  that,  in  such  kind  of  discourse” 

“ ‘ Sleep,  Sancho,’  cried  Don  Quixote  ; ‘ sleep,  for  thou  wert  born  to  sleep  ’ ” 

“‘Hold!’  cried  he;  ‘friend  Sancho,  stay  the  fury  of  thy  arm’”.  . 

“ ‘ Oh,  my  long-wished-for  home  ! ’ ” . 

Death  of  Don  Quixote  ....  ....... 


PAGE 

717 

729 

740 

749 

752 

755 

761 

763 

767 

769 

771 

775 

777 

781 

783 

785 

799 

8c8 

809 

817 

837 

843 

853 


BIOGRAPHICAL  NOTICE  OF  CERVANTES. 


ON  the  9th  of  October,  1547,  Miguel  de  Cervantes  Saavedra,  the  youngest  child  of  Rodrigo 
de  Cervantes  and  Leonora  de  Cortinos,  was  baptised  in  the  church  of  St.  Mary 
Major  (Santa  Maria  la  Mayor),  in  the  city  of  Alcala  de  Henares.  The  exact  date  of  his 
birth  is  uncertain,  but  it  is  not  improbable  that  he  was  born  on  the  29th  of  September  preceding, 
and  that  he  was  christened  Miguel,  after  St.  Michael,  to  whom  that  day  is  dedicated.  Both 
his  parents  were  descended  of  illustrious  houses  ; his  father  was  a member  of  a Castilian 
family,  which  had  for  years  been  renowned  both  in  Spain  and  in  the  colonies,  and  which  a 
century  before  Miguel’s  birth  had  formed  an  alliance  with  the  Saavedras.  The  ancient  glories 
of  the  family  had,  however,  well  nigh  departed,  when,  in  the  small  city  of  Alcala  de  Henares, 
the  child  was  born  of  comparatively  poor  parents,  who  was  destined,  as  well  by  his  dauntless 
heroism  as  by  his  surpassing  literary  genius,  to  eclipse  the  ancient  fame  of  his  race,  and 
achieve  a reputation  so  illustrious  that  the  proudest  cities  of  his  fatherland  jealously  contended 
for  the  honourable  reputation  of  being  his  birthplace.*  The  university  of  his  native  town, 
founded  some  half-century  earlier  by  Cardinal  Ximenes,  probably  afforded  Miguel  de  Cervantes 
opportunities  for  study  in  his  youth,  of  which  he  availed  himself,  and  though  he  later  enjoyed 
some  years’  study  at  the  famous  university  of  Salamanca,  he  seems  to  have  ever  cherished 
genial  memories  of  the  town  where  he  spent  his  boyhood,  which  he  speaks  of  more  than  once 
in  his  writings  as  “ famoso  Henares.”f  At  a very  early  age  Cervantes  exhibited  a thirst  for 
knowledge,  and  a remarkable  taste  for  poetry  and  dramatic  compositions.  The  story  told  in 
“ Don  Quixote”  of  the  pieces  of  paper  picked  up,  and  found  to  be  inscribed  with  an  Arabic 
version  of  the  life  of  the  Don,  is  no  doubt  founded  on  the  habit  to  which  he  was  himself  addicted 
when  a youth,  of  collecting  even  stray  scraps  of  paper,  in  the  hope  of  obtaining  some  information 
from  them.  His  taste  for  the  drama  and  poetry  was  fostered  by  the  opportunities  which  he 
had  of  being  present  at  the  performance  of  the  comedies  which  Lope  de  Rueda  inaugurated, 
about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  in  the  principal  towns  and  cities  of  Castile. 

Cervantes  first  appeared  in  print  as  the  author  of  six  poems  of  very  little  merit,  contributed 
by  him  to  a volume  published  in  1569,  in  commemoration  of  the  splendid  obsequies  of  Isabella 
de  Valois,  wife  of  Philip  II.,  which  had  been  celebrated  towards  the  close  of  the  preceding 
year.  In  this  volume  his  friend  and  instructor,  Juan  Lopez  de  Hoyos,  an  accomplished 
ecclesiastic,  makes  mention  of  Miguel  Cervantes  as  his  “ dear  and  beloved  pupil,”  J and  speaks 
of  his  poems  in  such  terms  of  praise  as  do  more  credit,  however,  to  his  kindly  feelings  for 
his  disciple  than  to  the  soundness  of  his  literary  taste. 

* Toledo,  Seville,  Madrid,  and  other  less  notable  cities  for  long  claimed  the  honour  of  being  Cervantes’  native  place, 
t “Galatea.”  t “Caro  discipulo;”  “Amado  discipulo.” 


XV 1 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


About  this  time  Cervantes  became  acquainted  at  Madrid  with  Monsignor  Giulio  Aquaviva,* 
who  had  come  as  ambassador  to  Spain,  in  1568,  to  offer  the  Pontiff’s  condolence  upon  the  death  of 
Don  Carlos.  The  monsignor,  himself  a young  man  of  great  accomplishments  and  literary 
taste,  having  doubtless  found  Cervantes  a congenial  companion,  offered  him  a post  in  his 
household,  for  in  the  year  1570  Cervantes  was  at  Rome,  in  the  position  of  chamberlain  to 

Monsignor  Aquaviva.  The  charming  descriptions  of  Southern  France,  which  are  found  in  the 

“Galatea,”  are  evidently  based  upon  the  observations  which  Cervantes  was  enabled  to  make  at 
this  time,  when  he  journeyed  to  Rome  with  his  patron.  He  did  not  long  continue  in  the 
service  of  the  monsignor,  as  in  1571  he  volunteered  to  join  in  the  united  Venetian 

Papal  and  Spanish  expedition,  commanded  by  Don  John  of  Austria,  and  levelled  against 
the  Turks.  His  strong  religious  convictions  and  impulsive  love  for  his  fatherland  made 

Cervantes  zealous  to  serve  against  the  race  who  were  alike  the  hated  oppressors  of  the 
chivalry  of  Spain,  and  the  inveterate  enemies  of  the  religion  of  the  Catholic  Church.  On  the 
7th  of  October,  1571,  he  took  a brave  part  in  the  famous  naval  engagement  at  Lepanto,  where 
the  Mahometan  power  sustained  a great  defeat,  and  Western  Europe  was  saved  from  Moslem 
invasion.  In  this  battle  Cervantes  lost  his  left  hand,  and  was  otherwise  so  severely  wounded 
as  to  be  compelled  to  remain  for  some  six  months  in  the  hospital  of  Messina.  When 
sufficiently  recovered  he  joined  the  expedition  to  the  Levant,  commanded  by  Marco  Antonio 
Colonna,  Duke  of  Paliano.  Here,  however,  he  did  not  see  much  active  service. 

It  is  to  these  events  that  Cervantes  alludes  in  the  Dedication  of  his  “ Galatea,”  where  he 
speaks  of  having  served  for  years  under  the  standard  of  Marco  Antonio  Colonna ; and  upon 
incidents  which  occurred  during  this  campaign  is  based  the  Story  of  the  Captive  in  “Don 
Quixote.”  In  1575  Cervantes  set  out  to  return  to  Spain,  having,  during  the  previous  few 
years,  joined  in  various  expeditions,  and  borne  a prominent  part  in  the  engagement  at  Tunis, 
where  he  was  under  the  immediate  command  of  the  illustrious  Marques  de  Santa  Cruz.  The 
warmest  testimony  to  the  heroism  and  bravery  of  Cervantes  during  these  campaigns  was  borne 
by  Don  John  and  Don  Carlos  de  Aragon,  the  viceroy  of  Sicily,  both  of  whom  gave  him  strong 
letters  of  commendation  to  the  King  of  Spain, 

The  possession  of  these  letters,  however,  proved  very  unfortunate  for  poor  Cervantes ; for 
when  El  Sol,  the  ship  in  which  he  and  other  wounded  soldiers  were  returning  to  Spain,  was 
captured  on  September  26th,  1575,  by  an  Algerine  squadron,  the  captain,  Dali  Mami,  to  whose 
lot  Cervantes  fell,  finding  these  documents  upon  him,  imagined  he  was  some  don  of  immense 
importance,  for  whose  liberation  a large  sum  would  be  offered  by  his  friends.  He  was  therefore 
loaded  with  heavy  fetters,  guarded  with  the  greatest  strictness,  and  subjected  to  cruelties  of 
every  kind,  as  well  to  hasten  the  offers  of  the  expected  ransom  as  to  secure  him  from  any 
attempts  either  at  escape  or  release. 

During  his  captivity,  which  lasted  five  years,  he  was  sold  by  the  Greek  captain  to  the  Dey 
Azan  for  five  hundred  escudos.  In  the  service  of  the  latter  his  sufferings  reached  a climax. 

o 

The  dey  hated  him  because  of  the  repeated  attempts  which  he  had  made  to  escape,  and  for 
his  zeal  and  energy  in  aiding  his  fellow-sufferers.  Having  endured  much  cruelty  and  hardship, 
he  was  at  last  ransomed  in  September,  1580.  His  brother  Roderigo,  who  had  been  taken  prisoner 
on  the  same  occasion  as  Miguel,  had  obtained  his  liberty  some  years  before,  and  by  means  of 
his  exertions,  and  his  widowed  mother  sacrificing  the  little  money  she  and  her  daughters  had, 
a small  sum  was  raised  for  the  ransom  of  Miguel  Cervantes.  To  this  were  added,  to  make  up 


* Aquaviva  was  chamberlain  of  Pius  V.,  and  at  an  early  age  was  raised  to  the  dignity  of  cardinal. 


BIOGRAPHICAL  NOTICE  OF  CERVANTES. 


XVII 


the  necessary  amount,  the  contributions  of  some  pious  and  generous  monks,  who  were  ever 
foremost  in  their  exertions  to  obtain  the  liberation  of  Christian  captives.  Chief  amongst  these 
was  a friar  named  Juan  Gil,  of  whom  Cervantes  speaks  in  terms  of  grateful  remembrance  in 
his  “Los  Tratos  de  Argel”  (“Manners  in  Algiers”*),  where  he  describes  him  as  “a  most 
Christian  man.”f 

After  his  release  Cervantes  again  entered  the  army,  and  joined  his  brother,  who  was  then 
serving  in  Portugal  with  the  Duke  of  Alva’s  army,  under  whom  Don  Lope  de  Figueroa,  who 
had  known  Cervantes  in  former  campaigns,  commanded  a regiment  of  veteran  and  tried 
soldiers,  to  which  it  is  most  probable  Miguel  Cervantes  was  now  attached.  He  also  accom- 
panied an  expedition,  commanded  by  the  Marques  de  Santa  Cruz,  to  the  Azores.  After  a 
fierce  engagement  and  brilliant  victory  at  Terceira,  the  admiral  easily  reduced  all  the  islands 
to  submission,  and  Cervantes,  who  had  long  and  bravely  served  under  Santa  Cruz,  wrote  a 
sonnet  in  praise  of  his  genius  and  gallantry.  He  undoubtedly  had  the  highest  opinion  of  and 
esteem  for  his  old  leader,  of  whom  in  “ Don  Quixote”  he  speaks  as  “ the  valorous  and  invincible 
captain.”  This  sojourn  in  Portugal  had  a decided  and  marked  effect  upon  Cervantes’  genius 

and  career.  He  acquired  a knowledge  of  Portuguese  literature,  and  a kindly  regard  for  the 

country  and  its  inhabitants,  which  is  repeatedly  reflected  in  his  writings,  and  is  very  different, 
indeed,  from  the  feelings  of  hatred  and  contempt  with  which  his  contemporaries  regarded  the 
Portuguese. 

At  this  time  (1583)  Cervantes  wrote  his  “Galatea” — the  first  great  work  upon  which  his 
literary  reputation  is  based.  In  the  town  of  Esquivias,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Madrid, 
lived  the  Donna  Catalina  de  Palacios  y Salazar,  a young  lady  of  apparently  very  limited 
fortune  and  unlimited  respectability.  To  her  Cervantes  paid  his  addresses,  and  we  may  fairly 
conclude  that  the  “Galatea”  was  written  to  excite  the  admiration,  and  thus  aid  in  the  winning 

the  hand  of  this  lady.  If  this  were  its  object,  the  poem  was  an  undoubted  success,  for 

immediately  upon  the  publication  of  the  first  part  the  true  Elicio  and  Galatea  were  wedded, 
on  December  12th,  1584;!  and  this  satisfactory  result  having  been  attained,  the  poem  remained, 
as  it  does  to  this  day,  unfinished.  The  merits  and  style  of  this  poem  we  reserve  for  further 
consideration. 

After  his  marriage  Cervantes  devoted  himself  to  literature,  as  a means  of  subsistence.  He 
resided  at  Madrid  until  1588,  during  which  time  he  wrote  some  thirty  plays,  of  which  only  two 
remain — the  “ Tratos  de  Argel,”  and  the  “ Numancia.”  This  latter  work,  while  utterly  devoid  of 
what  are  now  considered  the  requisites  of  dramatic  composition  is  very  remarkable  both  as  regards 
the  likeness  which  it  bears  in  some  points  to  the  early  Greek  tragedies,  and  the  peculiar  phase  of 
national  character,  to  which  the  success  of  such  a composition  upon  the  stage  points.  The  plot  is 
based  upon  an  incident  in  Roman  history.  The  city  of  Numantia,  having  resisted  the  assaults 
of  the  Roman  army  for  fourteen  years,  is  at  last  captured.  The  Numantians  have  resolved, 
however,  that  not  one  of  them  shall  fall  into  the  hands  of  their  enemies  as  prisoners  ; most 
of  the  inhabitants  perish  of  famine,  and  the  remainder,  feeling  resistance  useless,  put  each  other 
to  death.  The  last  survivor,  a youth  of  great  bravery,  stands  upon  the  walls  of  the  desolate 
city,  holding  the  keys  of  the  gates  in  his  hand,  and,  in  the  presence  of  the  Roman  army,  dies 

* This  is  a badly-constructed  and,  for  the  most  part,  indifferently-written  play,  in  five  acts,  worthy  of  the  wretched  style 
of  dramatic  art  in  Spain  before  its  regeneration  by  Lope  de  Vega.  Its  chief  value  is  as  a description  of  the  miseries  which  Christian 
captives  endured  in  Algiers.  Its  dulness  is  occasionally  relieved  with  passages  of  true  poetic  feeling. 

t “ Christianisimo. 

t Mr.  Florence  M‘Carthy  gives  the  date  of  the  marriage  December  14,  1584. 


xvm 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


by  throwing  himself  from  one  of  the  battlements.  In  the  course  of  the  play  some  personal 
incidents  of  individual  devotion  and  suffering  are  brought  in  with  great  pathos  and  power.  The 
main  interest  of  the  drama,  however,  does  not  depend  upon  any  one  person,  nor  is  the  working  out 
of  the  plot  intimately  connected  with  individual  character.  The  real  subject  of  the  play  is  the 
heroic  devotion  and  dauntless  bravery  of  the  Numantians.  The  object  is  to  excite  similar 
virtues  in  others,  and  to  intensify  hatred  to  religious  and  national  enemies  by  a minute  display 
of  the  cruel  sufferings  which  a brave  people  endured  at  the  hands  of  their  powerful  opponents. 
Incidents  of  personal  love  and  devotion  are  introduced  only  so  far  as  they  tend  to  promote  the 
wished-for  effect — to  kindle  hatred,  and  paralyse  general  feelings  of  benevolence.  To  accomplish 
the  desired  result,  horrible  details  of  suffering  and  ghastly  incidents  form  the  action  of  the  play. 

In  one  scene  a young  man  determines  to  get  food  at  any  risk  for  his  mistress.  He 
penetrates  into  the  enemy’s  camp,  receives  his  death  wound,  but  is  able  to  crawl  back  and 
give  the  girl  the  bread  saturated  with  his  blood.  In  another  a starving  child  sucks  blood 
instead  of  milk  from  the  breast  of  its  starving  mother ; and  a poor  wretch,  who  has  once 

endured  the  agonies  of  death,  is  brought  back  again  to  life  by  a magician.  No  doubt  such 
scenes  tend  to  excite  some  compassion  for  suffering,  but  this  feeling  is  overwhelmed  by  the 

excessive  passion  of  hate  which  is  awakened  against  the  enemies  who  caused  all  this. 

Unquestionably,  if  (as  it  is  asserted)  this  play  was  performed  during  the  siege  of  Saragossa, 
it  must  have  kindled  a great  patriotic  enthusiasm.  But  the  effects  of  such  representations  were 
not  always  so  good.  The  mimic  sufferings  of  the  stage  prepared  a nation  to  witness  with 

pleasure  the  more  terrible  realities  of  the  auto-da-fe.  In  the  greatness  of  the  theme,  and 
the  introduction  of  allegorical  characters  in  this  play,  there  is  undoubtedly  a resemblance  to 
the  Greek  model,  and  of  the  poetry  of  this  composition  no  less  a critic  than  Schlegel  speaks 
in  terms  of  enthusiastic  praise. 

Having  in  vain  striven  to  earn  a respectable  sustenance  at  Madrid  and  Esquivias,  Cervantes, 
maimed,  neglected,  and  disappointed,  went  in  1588  to  Seville,  at  that  time  one  of  the  principal 
cities  of  Spain,  and  a great  centre  of  commerce,  where  he  continued  to  reside  for  about  ten 
years.  Here  he  acted  as  a kind  of  collector,  or  clerk,  to  Antonio  de  Guevara,  who  was  Com- 
missary-General to  the  Indian  and  American  dependencies.  But  little  is  known  of  Cervantes 
during  his  sojourn  at  Seville,  save  that  he  was  once  imprisoned  for  not  being  able  to  account 
satisfactorily  for  some  moneys  entrusted  to  his  care,  and  that  he  petitioned  for  some  colonial 
appointment  without  success.  Of  this  latter  circumstance  Mr.  Ticknor,  to  whom  every  lover 
of  Spanish  literature  is  immensely  indebted  for  his  incomparable  work  upon  that  subject,  gives 
the  following  interesting  account:* — 

“ During  his  residence  at  Seville,  Cervantes  made  an  ineffectual  application  to  the  king 
for  an  appointment  in  America,  setting  forth,  by  exact  documents,  which  now  constitute  the 
most  valuable  materials  for  his  biography,  a general  account  of  his  adventures,  services,  and 
sufferings  while  a soldier  in  the  Levant,  and  of  the  miseries  of  his  life  while  he  was  a slave 
in  Algiers.  This  was  in  1590.  But  no  other  than  a formal  answer  seems  ever  to  have  been 
returned  to  the  application,  and  the  whole  affair  only  leaves  us  to  infer  the  severity  of  that 
distress  which  could  induce  him  to  seek  relief  in  exile  to  a colony  of  which  he  has  else- 
where spoken  as  the  great  resort  of  rogues.”  Cervantes  petitioned  for  one  of  four  offices — the 
auditorship  of  New  Granada,  that  of  the  galleys  of  Carthagena,  the  governorship  of  the 
province  of  Soconusco,  or  the  place  of  corregidor  of  the  city  of  Paz. 


* “History  of  Spanish  Literature,”  vol.  ii.,  p.  113. 


BIOGRAPHICAL  NOTICE  OF  CERVANTES. 


xix 


A few  sonnets,  of  no  particular  brilliancy,  are  the  only  literary  productions  of  which  we  have 
any  trace  as  having  been  written  by  Cervantes  during  this  period.  From  his  departure  from 
Seville  in  1598,  to  his  settlement  in  Valladolid  in  1603,  we  may  conclude,  in  the  absence  of 
any  reliable  or  accurate  information,  that  Cervantes  was  still  engaged  in  tax-collecting  and 
similar  work,  as  well  for  private  individuals  as  for  public  and  corporate  functionaries.  There 
is  no  reason  to  doubt  that  he  was  on  one  occasion  employed  thus  by  the  Prior  of  the  Order 
of  St.  John  in  La  Mancha,  and  that  having  attempted  to  perform  his  duties  in  the  village  of 
Argamasilla,  he  was  ill-treated  by  the  inhabitants,  and  finally  thrown  into  prison.  With  this 
incident  is  connected  the  scene  of  his  illustrious  knight  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha’s  early 
.adventures. 

Early  in  1603  Cervantes,  in  obedience  to  a summons  from  the  Revenue  authorities,  arrived  at 
Valladolid,  whither  the  Court  had  removed  some  eighteen  months  previously.  During  this  period 
Cervantes  was  engaged  upon  the  first  part  of  his  “ Don  Quixote,”  which  was  licensed  at  Valladolid 
in  the  year  after  his  arrival  there,  and  printed  the  following  year  (1605)  at  Madrid.  In  1606 
the  Court  went  to  Madrid ; Cervantes  returned  there  also,  and  resided  in  various  parts  of  that 
•capital  until  his  death.  There  is  no  doubt  that  Cervantes  was,  during  his  residence  here, 
acquainted  with  his  illustrious  contemporary,  Lope  de  Vega;*  but  between  the  suffering  and 
neglected  Cervantes  and  his  prosperous  contemporary  there  can  scarcely  be  said  to  have  existed 
a friendship.  The  kindly  and  generous  nature  of  Cervantes  was  ever  ready  to  recognise  and 
laud  the  genius  of  his  brother  poet  and  dramatist.  These  feelings,  however,  were  not  reciprocated 
by  Lope,  who  speaks  occasionally  of  Cervantes  with  a contemptuous  sarcasm,  which,  we  cannot 
avoid  thinking,  was  the  offspring  of  an  ungenerous  and  jealous  nature. 

Next  to  “ Don  Quixote,”  the  most  remarkable  works  of  Cervantes,  which  he  published  in 
his  later  years,  were  his  “ Espanola  Inglesa,”  written  in  1611;  his  “ Novelas  Exemplares” 
(“Moral  Tales”),  which  appeared  in  1613;  his  “ Viage  al  Parnaso,”  or  “Journey  to  Parnassus,”  a 
satire  upon  the  poets  of  the  age,  which  made  many  bitter  enemies  when  it  was  issued  in 
1614;  his  eight  comedias  and  eiitremeses  (farces);  and  “ Persiles  and  Sigismunda,”  the  last  of  his 
writings. 

In  April,  1616,  Cervantes  joined  himself  to  the  order  of  Franciscan  friars;  and  not  many 
days  afterwards  he  received  the  last  rites  of  the  Church.  On  the  23rd  f of  that  month  the 
spirit  of  this  great  and  noble  genius  passed  from  a world  where  he  had  suffered  much  vicissitude, 
and  found  little  but  a posthumous  fame,  into  the  hands  of  his  God. 

Of  the  writings  of  Cervantes,  his  “ Don  Quixote”  and  “ Galatea”  are  best  known,  and  on  these 
his  literary  fame  may  most  securely  rest.  What  claims  have  these  works  respectively  to  immortal 
popularity  ? The  simple  eclogues  of  the  ancients  were  superseded,  both  in  Italy  and  Spain,  by 
a style  of  writing  more  romantic  and  full  of  incident,  which  may  be  regarded  as  the  transition 
stage  from  pure  pastoral  to  dramatic  composition.  To  this  class  of  writing  belongs  the  “ Galatea.” 
This  style  of  pastoral  romance  was  introduced  into  Spain  by  Jorge  de  Montemayor,  a Portuguese 
by  birth,  whose  “ Diana  Enamorada,”  an  unfinished  work  of  considerable  merit,  probably  suggested 

* Lope  Felix  de  Vega  Carpio  was  a distinguished  poet,  and  may  be  regarded  as  the  real  founder  of  the  Spanish  drama.  He 
•wrote  1,800  plays,  and  400  sacred  dramas,  besides  numerous  epic  and  other  poems.  For  the  last  five-and-twenty  years  of  his 
life  he  was  an  ecclesiastic,  but  previous  to  his  taking  orders  he  had  held  offices  of  trust  under  the  Count  de  Lemos,  the  Marquis 
Malpica,  and  the  Duke  of  Alva. 

t It  has  been  remarked  by  some  writers,  as  a strange  coincidence,  that  Shakespeare  and  Cervantes  both  died  upon  the 
same  day,  viz.,  April  23rd,  1616.  The  coincidence  is,  however,  only  apparent.  The  23rd  April,  1616,  in  Spain  was  not  identical 
with  the  same  date  in  England.  The  Gregorian  calendar,  which  was  earlier  adopted  in  Spain,  was  not  accepted  in  England  until 
1751  ; so  that  April  23rd  in  Spain  was  April  13th  in  England. 


XX 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


to  Cervantes  the  style  and  frame-work  of  his  “ Galatea.  d he  real  faults  and  great  merits  of  this 
work  are  pointed  out  by  Sismondi  with  his  usual  acuteness.  He  says* — 

“ Cervantes  has  been  blamed  for  having  mingled  too  many  episodes  with  the  principal  tale. 
It  is  said  that  he  has  attempted  too  many  complicated  histories,  and  introduced  too  many  characters, 
and  that  he  has,  by  the  quantity  of  incidents  and  names,  confounded  the  imagination  of  the  reader, 
who  is  unable  to  follow  him.  I should  also  be  inclined  to  impute  it  to  him  as  a fault — though  this 
accusation  more  properly  falls  upon  the  class  than  upon  this  individual  work — that  he  is  almost 
cloying  in  the  sweetness  and  languor  of  his  love-scenes.  When  we  read  these  pastoral  romances, 
we  may  imagine  ourselves  bathing  in  milk  and  honey.  Notwithstanding  these  observations,  the 
purity  of  its  morals,  the  interest  of  its  situations,  the  richness  of  invention,  and  the  poetical  charms 
which  it  displays,  must  ensure  to  the  ‘ Galatea’  an  honourable  place  in  the  list  of  Spanish  classics.” 

The  first  part  of  “ Don  Quixote,”  as  we  have  already  stated,  was  printed  in  1605.  The  second 
part  was  published  ten  years  afterwards,  Cervantes  having  been  urged  thereto  by  the  appearance 
of  a spurious  continuation  of  the  work,  purporting  to  be  written  by  Alonzo  Fernandez  de  Avellaneda. 
The  individual  who  adopted  this  110m  de  plume  was,  not  unlikely,  some  obscure  writer  to  whom 
Cervantes  had  given  offence  in  his  “ Viage  al  Parnaso,”  by  uncomplimentary  criticism  ; for  his 
composition  is  laden  with  personal  virulence. 

The  one  continued  chain  of  thought  which  pervades  the  entire  of  “ Don  Quixote  ” is  the 
striking  contrast  between  the  prosaic  and  poetic — the  heroic  and  matter-of-fact  aspects  of  life. 
The  great  lesson  which  seems  to  me  to  underlie  this  at  once  most  melancholy  and  most 
brilliant  of  human  compositions  is,  that  true  heroism  and  chivalry  do  not  consist  in  the 
pursuit  of  some  exceptional  mode  of  conduct  which  happens  to  be  vulgarly  considered  in  itself 
heroic  or  chivalrous.  We  have  here  portrayed,  with  surpassing  power  and  inimitable  wit,  a 
man  of  a noble  and  generous  nature,  going  in  quest  of  those  adventures  which  a misguiding 
and  corrupting  literature  had  represented  as  alone  affording  opportunities  for  the  display  of 
heroic  qualities ; and,  with  all  his  earnestness  and  chivalry,  the  knight  turns  out  only  a laughing- 
stock for  the  world.  It  is  generally  believed  that  the  publication  of  “ Don  Quixote  was  the 
death-blow  of  the  so-called  literature  of  chivalry  which  had  long  degraded  the  spirit  and  corrupted 
the  morals  of  Christendom.  I venture  to  think  that  it  has  borne  no  small  part  also  in  crushing 
out  the  false  estimate  of  duty  which  the  spurious  heroism  of  knight-errantry  had  created  and 
maintained.  The  intensity  of  our  earnestness  in  the  pursuit  of  what  is  good  and  true  in  any 
department,  no  matter  how  limited — in  any  rank,  no  matter  how  humble — is  now  regarded  as 
the  real  standard  of  worth.  Compare  this  present  state  of  thought  with  the  ideas  gathered  by 
Don  Quixote  from  the  works  of  chivalry  which  moulded  his  character,  and  we  shall  be  able  to 
realise  something  of  the  change  which  has  taken  place  in  our  estimate  of  Christian  duty.  If 
this  splendid  masterpiece  of  Cervantes  has  borne  any  share,  however  small,  in  this  great  moral 
revolution,  the  world  should  cherish  with  gratitude  and  admiration  the  memory  of  its  illustrious 
author.f 

Of  the  purely  literary  merits  of  this  work  it  would  be  impossible  to  speak  in  terms  of 
exaggeration.  Montesquieu  says,  “ The  Spaniards  have  but  one  good  book,  that  one  which 
has  made  all  the  others  ridiculous.”  Sir  W.  Temple  remarks,  “The  matchless  writer  of  ‘Don 
Quixote  * is  much  more  to  be  admired  for  having  made  up  so  excellent  a composition  of  satire 

* “Historical  View  of  the  Literature  of  the  South  of  Europe,”  vol.  ii.,  p.  271. 

t A writer  in  “ Notes  and  Queries”  (vol.  x.,  p.  343)  insists  that  “ Don  Quixote”  is  really  an  attack  upon  the  Jesuits,  and  that 
the  Don  himself  represents  Ignatius  Loyola.  Such  a supposition  is  directly  opposed  to  what  we  know  of  Cervantes’  religious 
feeling  and  strong  attachment  to  his  church. 


BIOGRAPHICAL  NOTICE  OF  CERVANTES. 


XXI 


or  ridicule  without  indecency  and  profaneness ; it  seems  to  me  the  best  and  highest  strain 
that  ever  has  been  or  will  be  reached  by  that  vein.”  M.  Sismondi  observes,  “No  work  of 
any  language  ever  exhibited  a more  exquisite  or  more  sprightly  satire,  or  a happier  vein  of 
invention,  worked  with  more  striking  success.”  In  fact,  the  most  eminent  men  of  every  age  and 
country  seem  to  vie  with  each  other  in  the  fervour  of  the  praise  which  they  bestow  upon  this 
work. 

Everything  which  we  know  of  the  personal  character  of  Cervantes  adds  to  our  apprecia- 
tion of  his  writings.  He  was  an  accomplished  scholar,  a brave  soldier,  a kindly  gentleman,  a 
sincere  and  pious  Christian.*  He  was,  as  M.  Viardot  remarks,  “ an  illustrious  man  before  he 
became  an  illustrious  writer — one  who  was  the  doer  of  great  deeds  before  he  produced  an 
immortal  book.”f 

According  to  his  desire,  Cervantes  was  buried  in  the  Convent  of  the  Nuns  of  the 
Trinity,  which  was  situated  in  the  street  of  the  Humilladero.  It  is  not  known  whether 
his  remains  were  transferred  afterwards  to  the  convent  in  the  street  of  Cantarranas,  whither 
the  sisters  removed.  Where  the  ashes  of  the  greatest  Spanish  author  lie  is,  therefore,  a 
matter  of  uncertainty.  In  1835  a splendid  statue  was  erected  to  his  memory  at  Madrid,  in 
the  Plaza  del  Estamento ; but  the  most  lasting  memorial  of  Cervantes  is  his  writings.  “ The 
inscription  shall  not  be  effaced  by  time ; the  imagery  shall  not  moulder  away.”  And  since  this 
brief  sketch  is  intended  as  an  introduction  to  an  edition  of  his  “ Don  Quixote,”  I think  I 
may  say  with  truth — “ Si  queer  is  monumentum , aspicc 


T.  TEIGNMOUTH  SHORE. 


* Pellicer  describes  him  as  “hombre  devoto  y timorato" — a pious  man,  and  full  of  the  fear  of  God. 
t “Notice  sur  la  Vie  et  les  Ouvrages  de  Cervantes.” 


\*  The  English  text  of  “Don  Quixote”  adopted  in  this  edition  is  that  of  Jarvis,  with  occasional  corrections  from  Motteaux’  translation, 
few  objectionable  words  and  sentences,  in  no  way  necessary  to  the  beauty  and  completeness  of  the  work,  have  been  omitted. 


A 


THE 

AUTHOR'S  PREFACE  TO  THE  READER. 


YOU  may  depend  upon  my  bare  word,  reader,  without  any  farther  security,  that  I could 
wish  this  offspring  of  my  brain  were  as  ingenious,  sprightly,  and  accomplished  as 
yourself  could  desire  ; but  the  mischief  on ’t  is,  nature  will  have  its  course.  Every  production 
must  resemble  its  author,  and  my  barren  and  unpolished  understanding  can  produce  nothing 
but  what  is  very  dull,  very  impertinent,  and  extravagant  beyond  imagination.  You  may 
suppose  it  the  child  of  disturbance,  engendered  in  some  dismal  prison,  where  wretchedness 
keeps  its  residence,  and  every  dismal  sound  its  habitation.  Rest  and  ease,  a convenient  place, 
pleasant  fields  and  groves,  murmuring  springs,  and  a sweet  repose  of  mind,  are  helps  that  raise 
the  fancy,  and  impregnate  even  the  most  barren  muses  with  conceptions  that  fill  the  world 
with  admiration  and  delight.  Some  parents  are  so  blinded  by  a fatherly  fondness,  that  they 
mistake  the  very  imperfections  of  their  children  for  so  many  beauties,  and  the  folly  and 


XXVI 


DON  QUIXOTE  IJE  LA  MANCHA. 


snarl,  and  deny  this  notorious  truth,  value  it  not  two  farthings  ; and  though  they  should  convict 
you  of  forgery,  you  are  in  no  danger  of  losing  the  hand  with  which  you  wrote  them. 

“ As  to  marginal  notes  and  quotations  from  authors  for  your  history,  it  is  but  dropping 
here  and  there  some  scattered  Latin  sentences  that  you  have  already  by  rote,  or  may  have 
with  little  or  no  pains.  For  example,  in  treating  of  liberty  and  slavery,  clap  me  in 

‘ Non  bene  pro  toto  libertas  venditur  anro  ; ' 

and,  at  the  same  time,  make  Horace,  or  some  other  author,  vouch  it  in  the  margin.  If  you 
treat  of  the  power  of  death,  come  round  with  this  close  : 

‘ Pallida  mors  aequo  pulsat  pcdc  pauperum  tabernas, 

Reg  unique  turresl 

If  of  loving  our  enemies,  as  Heaven  enjoins,  you  may,  if  you  have  the  least  curiosity,  presently 
turn  to  the  divine  precept,  and  say,  ‘ Ego  autcm  dico  vobis,  diligite  inimicos  vestros ; ’ or  if  you 
discourse  of  bad  thoughts,  bring  in  this  passage,  ‘ Dc  cordc  exeunt  cogitationes  males!  If  the 
uncertainty  of  friendship  be  your  theme,  Cato  offers  you  his  old  couplet  with  all  his  heart  : 

‘ Donee  cris  felix  multos  numerabis  amicos, 

Tempora  si  fuerint  nubila,  solus  eris'. 

And  so  proceed.  These  scraps  of  Latin  will  at  least  gain  you  the  credit  of  a great  grammarian 
which,  I assure  you,  is  no  small  accomplishment  in  this  age.  As  to  annotations  or  remarks  at 
the  end  of  your  book,  you  may  safely  take  this  course  : if  you  have  occasion  for  a giant  in 
your  piece,  be  sure  you  bring  in  Goliath,  and  on  this  very  Goliath  (who  will  not  cost  you  one 
farthing)  you  may  spin  out  a capital  annotation.  You  may  say,  ‘ The  giant  Goliath,  or 
Goliat,  was  a Philistine,  whom  David  the  shepherd  slew  with  the  thundering  stroke  of  a pebble 
in  the  valley  of  Terebinthus ; vide  Kings,  in  such  a chapter  and  such  a verse,  where  you 
may  find  it  written.’  If,  not  satisfied  with  this,  you  would  appear  a great  humanist,  and  would 
show  your  knowledge  in  geography,  take  some  occasion  to  draw  the  river  Tagus  into  your 
discourse,  out  of  which  you  may  fish  a most  notable  remark.  ‘The  river  Tagus,’  say  you, 
‘was  so  called  from  a certain  king  of  Spain.  It  takes  its  rise  from  such  a place,  and  buries 
its  waters  in  the  ocean,  kissing  first  the  walls  of  the  famous  city  of  Lisbon  : and  some  are 
of  opinion  that  the  sands  of  this  river  are  gold,’  &c.  If  you  have  occasion  to  talk  of  robbers, 
I can  presently  give  you  the  history  of  Cacus,  for  I have  it  by  heart.  If  you  would  descant 


THE  AUTHOR’S  PREFACE  TO  THE  READER. 


XXVI) 


upon  cruelty,  Ovid’s  Medea  can  afford  you  a very  good  example.  Calypso  from  Homer, 
and  Circe  out  of  Virgil,  are  famous  instances  of  witchcraft  or  enchantment.  Would  you  treat 
of  valiant  commanders  ? Julius  Caesar  has  writ  his  commentaries  on  purpose  ; and  Plutarch 

can  furnish  you  with  a thousand  Alexanders.  If  you  would  mention  love,  and  have  but  three 

grains  of  Italian,  you  may  find  Leon  the  Jew  ready  to  serve  you  most  abundantly.  But  if 
you  would  keep  nearer  home,  it  is  but  examining  Fonseca  on  divine  love,  which  you  have 

here  in  your  study,  and  you  need  go  no  farther  for  all  that  can  be  said  on  that  copious 

subject. 

“In  short,  it  is  but  quoting  these  authors  in  your  book,  and  let  me  alone  to  make 
annotations.  I’ll  engage  to  crowd  your  margin  sufficiently,  and  scribble  you  four  or  five 
sheets  to  boot  at  the  end  of  your  book  ; and  for  the  citation  of  so  many  authors,  it  is  the 
easiest  thing  in  nature.  Find  out  one  of  these  books  with  an  alphabetical  index,  and  without 
any  farther  ceremony,  remove  it  verbatim  into  your  own  ; and  though  the  world  won’t  believe 
you  have  occasion  for  such  lumber,  yet  there  are  fools  enough  to  be  thus  drawn  into  an 
opinion  of  the  work ; at  least,  such  a flourishing  train  of  attendants  will  give  your  book  a 
fashionable  air,  and  recommend  it  to  sale  ; for  few  chapmen  will  stand  to  examine  it  and 

compare  the  authorities  upon  the  counter,  since  they  can  expect  nothing  but  their  labour  for 
the  pains. 

“ But,  after  all,  sir,  if  I know  anything  at  all  of  the  matter,  you  have  no  occasion  for 

any  of  these  things  ; for  your  subject,  being  a satire  on  knight-errantry,  is  so  absolutely  new, 

that  neither  Aristotle,  St.  Basil,  nor  Cicero  ever  dreamt  or  heard  of  it.  Those  fabulous 

extravagances  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  impartial  punctuality  of  true  history ; nor  do  I 
find  any  business  you  can  have  either  with  astrology,  geometry,  or  logic,  and  I hope  you  are 
too  good  a man  to  mix  sacred  things  with  profane.  Nothing  but  pure  nature  is  your  business  ; 
her  you  must  consult,  and  the  closer  you  can  imitate,  your  picture  is  the  better.  And  since 
this  writing  of  yours  aims  at  no  more  than  to  destroy  the  authority  and  acceptance  the  books 
of  chivalry  have  had  in  the  world,  and  among  the  vulgar,  you  have  no  need  to  go  begging 
sentences  of  philosophers,  passages  out  of  Holy  Writ,  poetical  fables,  rhetorical  orations,  or 
miracles  of  saints.  Do  but  take  care  to  express  yourself  in  a plain,  easy  manner,  in  well- 
chosen,  significant,  and  decent  terms,  and  to  give  an  harmonious  and  pleasing  turn  to  your 
periods  ; study  to  explain  your  thoughts,  and  set  them  in  the  truest  light,  labouring,  as  much 
as  possible,  not  to  leave  them  dark  nor  intricate,  but  clear  and  intelligible  : let  your  diverting 


xxviii  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

stories  be  expressed  in  diverting  terms,  to  kindle  mirth  in  the  melancholic,  and  heighten  it  in 
the  gay  : let  mirth  and  humour  be  your  superficial  design,  though  laid  on  a solid  foundation, 
to  challenge  attention  from  the  ignorant,  and  admiration  from  the  judicious;  to  secure  your 
work  from  the  contempt  of  the  graver  sort,  and  deserve  the  praises  of  men  of  sense  ; keeping 
your  eye  still  fixed  on  the  principal  end  of  your  project,  the  fall  and  destruction  of  that 
monstrous  heap  of  ill-contrived  romances,  which,  though  abhorred  by  many,  have  so  strangely 
infatuated  the  greater  part  of  mankind — mind  this,  and  your  business  is  done.” 

I listened  very  attentively  to  my  friend’s  discourse,  and  found  it  so  reasonable  and  con- 
vincing, that  without  any  reply,  I took  his  advice,  and  have  told  you  the  story  by  way  of 
preface ; wherein  you  may  see,  gentlemen,  how  happy  I am  in  so  ingenious  a friend,  to  whose 
seasonable  counsel  you  are  all  obliged  for  the  omission  of  all  this  pedantic  garniture  in  the 
history  of  the  renowned  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  whose  character  among  all  the  neighbours 
about  Montiel  is,  that  he  was  the  most  chaste  lover  and  the  most  valiant  knight  that  has  been 
known  in  these  parts  these  many  years.  I will  not  urge  the  service  I have  done  you  by 
introducing  you  into  so  considerable  and  noble  a knight’s  acquaintance,  but  only  beg  the  favour 
of  some  small  acknowledgment  for  recommending  you  to  the  familiarity  of  the  famous  Sancho 
Panza,  his  squire,  in  whom,  in  my  opinion,  you  will  find  united  and  described  all  the  squire- 
iike  graces  which  are  scattered  up  and  down  in  the  whole  bead-roll  of  books  of  chivalry.  And 
now  I take  my  leave,  entreating  you  not  to  forget  your  humble  servant. 


CHAPTER  I. 


A 


TIIE  QUALITY  AND  WAY  OF  LIVING  OF  THE  RENOWNED  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

T a certain  village  in  La  Mancha,  of  which  I cannot  remember  the  name,  there  lived  not  long 
ago  one  of  those  old-fashioned  gentlemen  who  are  never  without  a lance  upon  a rack,  an  old 
target,  a lean  horse,  and  a greyhound.  Soup,  more  frequently  of  mutton  than  of  beef,  minced 
meats  on  most  nights,  lentiles  on  Fridays,  griefs  and  groans  on  Saturdays,  and  a pigeon  extra- 
ordinary on  Sundays,  consumed  three-quarters  of  his  revenue ; the  rest  was  laid  out  in  a doublet 

of  fine  cloth,  velvet  breeches,  with  slippers  of  the  same  for  holidays ; and  a suit  of  the  very  best 
1 


2 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


homespun,  which  he  bestowed  on  himself  for -working  days.  His  whole  family  was  a house- 
keeper something  turned  of  forty,  a niece  not  twenty,  and  a man  that  served  him  in  the  house 
and  in  the  field,  and  could  saddle  a horse  and  handle  the  pruning-hook.  The  master  himself  was 
nigh  fifty  years  of  age,  of  a hale  and  strong  complexion,  lean-bodied,  and  thin-faced,  an  early  riser 
and  a lover  of  hunting.  Some  say  his  surname  was  Quixada,  or  Quesada  (for  authors  differ  in  this 
particular) ; however,  we  may  reasonably  conjecture  he  was  called  Quixada  (*.  e.,  lantern-jaws),  though 
this  concerns  us  but  little,  provided  we  keep  strictly  to  the  truth  in  every  point  of  this  history. 

You  must  know,  then,  that  when  our  gentleman  had  nothing  to  do  (which  was  almost  all  the 
year  round),  he  passed  his  time  in  reading  books  of  knight-errantry,  which  he  did  with  that 
application  and  delight,  that  at  last  he  in  a manner  wholly  left  off  his  country  sports,  and  even 
the  care  of  his  estate  ; nay,  he  grew  so  strangely  besotted  with  these  amusements,  that  he  sold 
many  acres  of  arable  land  to  purchase  books  of  that  kind,  by  which  means  he  collected  as  many 
of  them  as  were  to  be  had  ; but,  among  them  all,  none  pleased  him  like  the  works  of  the  famous 
Feliciano  de  Sylva  ; for  the  clearness  of  his  prose,  and  those  intricate  expressions  with  which  it  is 
interlaced,  seemed  to  him  so  many  pearls  of  eloquence,  especially  when  he  came  to  read  the 
challenges,  and  the  amorous  addresses,  many  of  them  in  this  extraordinary  style  : “ The  reason 
of  your  unreasonable  usage  of  my  reason,  does  so  enfeeble  my  reason,  that  I have  reason  to 
expostulate  with  your  beauty.”  And  this,  “ The  sublime  heavens,  which  with  your  divinity 
divinely  fortify  you  with  the  stars,  and  fix  you  the  deserver  of  the  desert  that  is  deserved  by  your 
grandeur.”  These,  and  such  like  expressions,  strangely  puzzled  the  poor  gentleman’s  under- 
standing, while  he  was  breaking  his  brain  to  unravel  their  meaning,  which  Aristotle  himself  could 
never  have  found,  though  he  should  have  been  raised  from  the  dead  for  that  very  purpose. 

He  did  not  so  well  like  those  dreadful  wounds  which  Don  Belianis  gave  and  received;  for  he 
considered  that  all  the  art  of  surgery  could  never  secure  his  face  and  body  from  being  strangely 
disfigured  with  scars.  However,  he  highly  commended  the  author  for  concluding  his  book  with  a 
promise  to  finish  that  unfinishable  adventure  ; and  many  times  he  had  a desire  to  put  pen  to 
paper,  and  faithfully  and  literally  finish  it  himself;  which  he  had  certainly  done,  and  doubtless 
with  good  success,  had  not  his  thoughts  been  wholly  engrossed  in  much  more  important  designs. 

He  would  often  dispute  with  the  curate  of  the  parish,  a man  of  learning,  that  had  taken  his 
degrees  at  Siguenza,  who  was  the  better  knight,  Palmerin  of  England,  or  Amadis  de  Gaul ; but 
Master  Nicholas,  the  barber  of  the  same  town,  would  say  that  none  of  them  could  compare  with 
the  Knight  of  the  Sun;  and  that  if  any  one  came  near  him,  it  was  certainly  Don  Galaor,  the 
brother  of  Amadis  de  Gaul ; for  he  was  a man  of  a most  commodious  temper,  neither  was  he  so 
finical,  nor  such  a puling,  whining  lover  as  his  brother  ; and  as  for  courage,  he  was  not  a jot 
behind  him. 

In  fine,  he  gave  himself  up  so  wholly  to  the  reading  of  romances,  that  a-nights  he  would  pore 
on  until  it  was  day,  and  a-days  he  would  read  on  until  it  was  night ; and  thus  by  sleeping  little, 
and  reading  much,  the  moisture  of  his  brain  was  exhausted  to  that  degree  that  at  last  he  lost  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


3 


use  of  his  reason.  A world  of  disorderly  notions,  picked  out  of  his  books,  crowded  into  his 
imagination  ; and  now  his  head  was  full  of  nothing  but  enchantments,  quarrels,  battles,  challenges, 
wounds,  complaints,  amours,  torments,  and  abundance  of  stuff  and  impossibilities  ; insomuch  that 
all  the  fables  and  fantastical  tales  which  he  read  seemed  to  him  now  as  true  as  the  most  authentic 
histories.  He  would  say  that  the  Cid  Ruy  Diaz  was  a very  brave  knight,  but  not  worthy  to  stand 
in  competition  with  the  Knight  of  the  Burning  Sword,  who,  with  a single  back-stroke,  had  cut  in 
sunder  two  fierce  and  mighty  giants.  He  liked  yet  better  Bernardo  del  Carpio,  who,  at  Ronces- 
valles,  deprived  of  life  the  enchanted  Orlando  having  lilted  him  from  the  ground,  and  choked  him 
in  the  air,  as  Hercules  did  Antaeus,  the  son  of  the  Earth. 

As  for  the  giant  Morgante,  he  always  spoke  very  civil  things  of  him  ; for  though  he  was  one  of 
that  monstrous  brood  who  ever  were  intolerably  proud  and  brutish,  he  still  behaved  himself  like  a 
civil  and  well-bred  person. 

But  of  all  men  in  the  world  he  admired  Rinaldo  of  Montalban,  and  particularly  his  sallying  out 
of  his  castle  to  rob  all  he  met;  and  then  again  his  carrying  away  the  idol  of  Mahomet,  which  was 
all  massy  gold,  as  the  history  says ; but  he  so  hated  that  traitor  Galadon,  that  for  the  pleasure  of 
kicking  him  handsomely,  he  would  have  given  up  his  housekeeper;  nay,  and  his  niece  into  the  bargain. 

Having  thus  lost  his  understanding,  he  unluckily  stumbled  upon  the  oddest  fancy  that  ever 
entered  into  a madman’s  brain  ; for  now  he  thought  it  convenient  and  necessary,  as  well  for  the 
increase  of  his  own  honour,  as  the  service  of  the  public,  to  turn  knight-errant,  and  roam  through  the 
whole  world,  armed  cap-a-pie,  and  mounted  on  his  steed,  in  quest  of  adventures  ; that  thus 
imitating  those  knight-errants  of  whom  he  had  read,  and  following  their  course  of  life,  redressing  all 
manner  of  grievances,  and  exposing  himself  to  danger  on  all  occasions,  at  last,  after  a happy  conclu- 
sion of  his  enterprises,  he  might  purchase  everlasting  honour  and  renown.  Transported  with 
these  agreeable  delusions,  the  poor  gentleman  already  grasped  in  imagination  the  imperial  sceptre 
of  Trebizonde,  and,  hurried  away  by  his  mighty  expectations,  he  prepares  with  all  expedition  to  take 
the  field. 

The  first  thing  he  did  was  to  scour  a suit  of  armour  that  had  belonged  to  his  great-grandfather, 
and  had  lain  time  out  of  mind  carelessly  rusting  in  a corner ; but  when  he  had  cleaned  and  repaired 
it  as  well  as  he  could,  he  perceived  there  was  a material  piece  wanting  ; for,  instead  of  a complete 
helmet,  there  was  only  a single  head-piece.  However,  his  industry  supplied  that  defect ; for  with 
some  pasteboard  he  made  a kind  of  half-beaver,  or  vizor,  which,  being  fitted  to  the  head-piece,  made 
it  look  like  an  entire  helmet.  Then,  to  know  whether  it  were  cutlass-proof,  he  drew  his  sword,  and 
tried  its  edge  upon  the  pasteboard  vizor  ; but  with  the  very  first  stroke  he  unluckily  undid  in  a 
moment  what  he  had  been  a whole  week  a-doing.  He  did  not  like  its  being  broke  with  so  much 
ease,  and  therefore,  to  secure  it  from  the  like  accident,  he  made  it  anew,  and  fenced  it  with  thin 
plates  of  iron,  which  he  fixed  on  the  inside  of  it  so  artificially  that  at  last  he  had  reason  to  be  satisfied 
with  the  solidity  of  the  work ; and  so,  without  any  farther  experiment,  he  resolved  it  should  pass  to 
all  intents  and  purposes  for  a full  and  sufficient  helmet. 


4 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


In  the  next  place,  he  went  to  view  his  horse,  and  though  the  animal  had  more  blemishes 
than  limbs,  being  a worse  jade  than  Gonela’s,  qui  tan  turn  pcllis  et  ossa  fuit,  his  master  thought 
that  neither  Alexander’s  Bucephalus,  nor  the  Cid's  Babieca,  could  be  compared  with  him.  He 
was  four  days  considering  what  name  to  give  him  ; for,  as  he  argued  with  himself,  there  was  no 
reason  that  a horse  bestrid  by  so  famous  a knight,  and  withal  so  excellent  in  himself,  should  not  be 
distinguished  by  a particular  name  ; and  therefore  he  studied  to  give  him  such  a one  as  should 
demonstrate  as  well  what  kind  of  horse  he  had  been  before  his  master  was  a knight-errant,  as  what 
he  was  now  ; thinking  it  but  just,  since  the  owner  changed  his  profession,  that  the  horse  should  also 
change  his  title,  and  be  dignified  with  another ; a good  big  word,  such  a one  as  should  till  the 
mouth,  and  seem  consonant  with  the  quality  and  profession  of  his  master.  And  thus  after  many 
names  which  he  devised,  rejected,  changed,  liked,  disliked,  and  pitched  upon  again,  he  concluded  to 
call  him  Rozinante  ; a name,  in  his  opinion,  lofty,  sounding,  and  significant  of  what  he  had  been 
before,  and  also  of  what  he  was  now  : in  a word,  a horse  before,  or  above,  all  the  vulgar  breed  of 
horses  in  the  world. 

When  he  had  thus  given  his  horse  a name  so  much  to  his  satisfaction,  he  thought  of  choosing  one 
for  himself ; and  having  seriously  pondered  on  the  matter  eight  whole  days  more,  at  last  he  deter- 
mined to  call  himself  Don  Quixote.  Whence  the  author  of  this  most  authentic  history  draws  this 
inference,  that  his  right  name  was  Ouixada,  and  not  Ouesada,  as  others  obstinately  pretend.  And 
observing  that  the  valiant  Amadis,  not  satisfied  with  the  bare  appellation  of  Amadis,  added  to  it 
the  name  of  his  country,  that  it  might  grow  more  famous  by  his  exploits,  and  so  styled  himself 
Amadis  de  Gaul  ; so  he,  like  a true  lover  of  his  native  soil,  resolved  to  call  himself  Don  Quixote  de 
la  Mancha  ; which  addition,  to  his  thinking,  denoted  very  plainly  his  parentage  and  country,  and 
consequently  would  fix  a lasting  honour  on  that  part  of  the  world. 

And  now,  his  armour  being  scoured,  his  headpiece  improved  to  a helmet,  his  horse  and  himself 
new  named,  he  perceived  he  wanted  nothing  but  a lady,  on  whom  he  might  bestow  the  empire  of 
his  heart ; for  he  was  sensible  that  a knight-errant  without  a mistress  was  a tree  without  either  fruit 
or  leaves,  and  a body  without  a soul.  “Should  I,”  said  he  to  himself,  “by  good  or  ill  fortune, 
chance  to  encounter  some  giant,  as  it  is  common  in  knight-errantry,  and  happen  to  lay  him  prostrate 
on  the  ground,  transfixed  with  my  lance,  or  cleft  in  two,  or,  in  short,  overcome  him,  and  have  him 
at  my  mercy,  would  it  not  be  proper  to  have  some  lady  to  whom  I may  send  him  as  a trophy  of 
my  valour  ? Then  when  he  comes  into  her  presence,  throwing  himself  at  her  feet,  he  may  thus 
make  his  humble  submission  : — ‘ Lady,  I am  the  giant  Caraculiambro,  lord  of  the  island  of  Malin- 
drania,  vanquished  in  single  combat  by  that  never-deservedly-enough-extolled  knight-errant  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  who  has  commanded  me  to  cast  myself  most  humbly  at  your  feet,  that 
it  may  please  your  honour  to  dispose  of  me  according  to  your  will.’  ” Oh  ! how  elevated 
was  the  knight  with  the  conceit  of  this  imaginary  submission  of  the  giant  ; especially  having 
withal  bethought  himself  of  a person  on  whom  he  might  confer  the  title  of  his  mistress  ! which, 
it  is  believed,  happened  thus.  — Near  the  place  where  he  lived,  dwelt  a good,  likely  country 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


5 

lass,  for  whom  he  had  formerly  had  a sort  of  an  inclination,  though,  it  is  believed,  she  never  heard 
of  it,  nor  regarded  it  in  the  least  Her  name  was  Aldonza  Lorenzo,  and  this  was  she  whom  he 
thought  he  might  entitle  to  the  sovereignty  of  his  heart ; upon  which  he  studied  to  find  her  out  a 
new  name,  that  might  have  some  affinity  with  her  old  one,  and  yet  at  the  same  time  sound  some- 
what like  that  of  a princess,  or  lady  of  quality  ; so  at  last  he  resolved  to  call  her  Dulcinea,  with 
the  addition  of  del  Toboso,  from  the  place  where  she  was  born  ; a name,  in  his  opinion,  sweet, 
harmonious,  extraordinary,  and  no  less  significative  than  the  others  which  he  had  devised. 


CHAPTER  II. 


OF  DON  QUIXOTE’S  FIRST  SALLY. 

THESE  preparations  being  made,  he  found  his  designs  ripe  for  action,  and  thought 

crime  to  deny  himself  any  longer  to  the  injured  world,  that  wanted  such  a deliverer  l the  more 
when  he  considered  what  grievances  he  was  to  redress,  what  wrongs  and  injuries  to  remove,  what 
abuses  to  correct,  and  what  duties  to  discharge.  So  one  morning  before  day,  in  the  greatest  eat 
of  July,  without  acquainting  any  one  with  his  design,  with  all  the  secresy  imaginable,  he  arme 
himself  cap-a-pie,  laced  on  his  ill-contrived  helmet,  braced  on  his  target,  grasped  his  lance  mounte 
Rozinante,  and  at  the  private  door  of  his  back-yard  sallied  out  into  the  fields,  wonderfully  please 
to  see  with  how  much  ease  he  had  succeeded  in  the  beginning  of  his  enterprise.  But  he  a no 
gone  far  ere  a terrible  thought  alarmed  him,  a thought  that  had  like  to  have  made  him  renounce  h,s 
"reat  undertaking  ; for  now  it  came  into  his  mind  that  the  honour  of  knighthood  bad  not  yet  been 
conferred  upon  him,  and  therefore,  according  to  the  laws  of  chivalry,  he  neither  could  nor  oug 
appear  in  arms  against  any  professed  knight;  nay,  he  also  considered  that  though  he  were  already 
knighted,  it  would  become  him  to  wear  white  armour,  and  not  to  adorn  h.s  shield  with  any  device 
until  he  had  deserved  one  by  some  extraordinary  demonstration  of  his  valour. 

These  thoughts  staggered  his  resolution  ; but  his  folly  prevailing  more  man  any  reason  e 
resolved  to  be  dubbed  a knight  by  the  first  he  should  meet,  after  the  example  of  several  others^  w o, 

as  his  distracting  romances  informed  him,  had  formerly  done  the  like.  As  for  the  ot  er  1 c y 

about  wearing  white  armour,  he  proposed  to  overcome  it  by  scouring  his  own  at  leisure  unt 
should  look  whiter  than  ermine.  And  having  thus  dismissed  these  busy  scruples,  he  very  calmly 
rode  on,  leaving  it  to  his  horse's  discretion  to  go  which  way  he  pleased  ; hrmly  believing,  that  in  this 


He  travelled  almost  all  that  day.’ 


8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


consisted  the  very  being  of  adventures.  And  as  he  thus  went  on,  “ I cannot  but  believe,”  said  he  to 
himself,  “ that  when  the  history  of  my  famous  achievements  shall  be  given  to  the  world,  the  learned 
author  will  begin  it  in  this  very  manner,  when  he  comes  to  give  an  account  of  this  my  early  setting 
out  : — ‘ Scarce  had  the  ruddy-coloured  Phoebus  begun  to  spread  the  golden  tresses  of  his  lovely  hair 
over  the  vast  surface  of  the  earthly  globe,  and  scarce  had  those  feathered  poets  of  the  grove,  the 
pretty  painted  birds,  tuned  their  little  pipes,  to  sing  their  early  welcomes  in  soft  melodious  strains 
to  the  beautiful  Aurora,  who,  having  left  her  jealous  husband’s  bed,  displayed  her  rosy  graces  to 
mortal  eyes  from  the  gates  and  balconies  of  the  Manchegan  horizon,  when  the  renowned  knight  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  disdaining  soft  repose,  forsook  the  voluptuous  down,  and,  mounting  his 
famous  steed  Rozinante,  entered  the  ancient  and  celebrated  plains  of  Montiel.'  ” This  was  indeed 
the  very  road  he  took  ; and  then  proceeding,  “ Oh,  happy  age  ! Oh,  fortunate  times  ! ” cried  he, 
“ decreed  to  usher  into  the  world  my  famous  achievements  ; achievements  worthy  to  be  engraven 
on  brass,  carved  on  marble,  and  delineated  in  some  masterpiece  of  painting,  as  monuments 
of  my  glory,  and  examples  for  posterity!  And  thou,  venerable  sage,  wise  enchanter,  whatever 
be  thy  name  ; thou  whom  fate  has  ordained  to  be  the  compiler  of  this  rare  history,  forget  not, 
I beseech  thee,  my  trusty  Rozinante,  the  eternal  companion  of  all  my  adventures!”  After  this, 
as  if  he  had  been  really  in  love,  •*  Oh,  Princess  Dulcinea,”  cried,  he,  “ lady  of  this  captive  heart, 
much  sorrow  and  woe  you  have  doomed  me.  to  in  banishing  me  thus,  and  imposing  on  me  your 
rigorous  commands,  never  to  appear  before  your  beauteous  face ! Remember,  lady,  that  loyal 
heart  your  slave,  who  for  your  love  submits  to  so  many  miseries.”  To  these  extravagant 
conceits  he  added  a world  of  others,  all  in  imitation  and  in  the  very  style  of  those  which  the 
reading  of  romances  had  furnished  him  with  ; and  all  this  while  he  rode  so  softly,  and  the  sun’s 
heat  increased  so  fast,  and  was  so  violent,  that  it  would  have  been  sufficient  to  have  melted  his 
brains,  had  he  had  any  left. 

He  travelled  almost  all  that  day  without  meeting  any  adventure  worth  the  trouble  of  relating, 
which  put  him  into  a kind  of  despair;  for  he  desired  nothing  more  than  to  encounter  immediately 
some  person  on  whom  he  might  try  the  vigour  of  his  arm. 

Some  authors  say  that  his  first  adventure  was  that  of  the  pass  called  Puerto  Lapice  ; others  that 
of  the  Windmills  ; but  all  that  I could  discover  of  certainty  in  this  matter,  and  that  I meet  with  in  the 
annals  of  La  Mancha,  is  that  he  travelled  all  that  day  ; and  towards  the  evening,  he  and  his  horse 
being  heartily  tired,  and  almost  famished,  Don  Quixote  looking  about  him,  in  hopes  to  discover 
some  castle,  or  at  least  some  shepherd’s  cottage,  there  to  repose  and  refresh  himself,  at  last,  near  the 
road  which  he  kept,  he  espied  an  inn,  as  welcome  a sight  to  his  longing  eyes  as  if  he  had  discovered 
a star  directing  him  to  the  gate,  nay,  to  the  palace  of  his  redemption.  Thereupon  hastening  towards 
the  inn  with  all  the  speed  he  could,  he  got  thither  just  at  the  close  of  the  evening.  There  stood  by 
chance  at  the  inn-door  two  young  country  females,  who  were  going  to  Seville  with  some  carriers, 
that  happened  to  take  up  their  lodging  there  that  very  evening  ; and  as  whatever  our  knight-errant 
saw,  thought,  or  imagined,  was  all  of  a romantic  cast,  and  appeared  to  him  altogether  after  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


9 


manner  of  the  books  that  had  perverted  his  imagination,  he  no  sooner  saw  the  inn,  but  he  fancied  it 
to  be  a castle  fenced  with  four  towers,  and  lofty  pinnacles  glittering  with  silver,  together  with  a deep 
moat,  drawbridge,  and  all  those  other  appurtenances  peculiar  to  such  kind  of  places. 

Therefore,  when  he  came  near  it,  he  stopped  awhile  at  a distance  from  the  gate,  expecting  that 
some  dwarf  would  appear  on  the  battlements,  and  sound  his  trumpet  to  give  notice  of  the  arrival  of 
a knight ; but  finding  that  nobody  came,  and  that  Rozinante  was  for  making  the  best  of  his  way  to 
the  stable,  he  advanced  to  the  inn-door,  where  spying  the  two  girls,  they  seemed  to  him  two  beautiful 
damsels,  or  graceful  ladies,  taking  the  benefit  of  the  fresh  air  at  the  gate  of  the  castle.  It  happened 
also,  at  the  very  moment,  that  a swineherd  getting  together  his  hogs  (for,  without  begging  pardon, 
so  they  are  called)  from  the  stubble-field,  winded  his  horn  ; and  Don  Quixote  presently  imagined 
this  was  the  wished-for  signal,  which  some  dwarf  gave  to  notify  his  approach ; therefore,  with  the 
greatest  joy  in  the  world,  he  rode  up  to  the  inn.  The  girls,  affrighted  at  the  approach  of  a man 
cased  in  iron,  and  armed  with  a lance  and  target,  were  for  running  into  their  lodging ; but  Don 
Quixote,  perceiving  their  fear  by  their  flight,  lifted  up  the  pasteboard  beaver  of  his  helmet,  and 
discovering  his  withered,  dusty  face,  with  comely  grace  and  grave  delivery,  accosted  them  in  this 
manner — 

“ I beseech  ye,  ladies,  do  not  fly,  nor  fear  the  least  offence ; the  order  of  knighthood,  which  I 
profess,  does  not  permit  me  to  countenance  or  offer  injuries  to  any  one  in  the  universe,  and  least  of 
all  to  ladies  of  such  high  rank  as  your  presence  denotes.” 

They  looked  earnestly  upon  him,  endeavouring  to  get  a glimpse  of  his  face,  which  his  ill- 
contrived  beaver  partly  hid ; but  when  they  heard  themselves  styled  ladies  of  high  rank  they  could 
not  forbear  laughing  outright,  which  Don  Quixote  resented  as  a great  affront. 

“ Give  me  leave  to  tell  ye,  ladies,”  cried  he,  “ that  modesty  and  civility  are  very  becoming  in 
the  fair  sex  ; whereas  laughter  without  ground  is  the  highest  piece  of  indiscretion  ; however,”  added 
he,  “ I do  not  presume  to  say  this  to  offend  you,  or  incur  your  displeasure  ; no,  ladies,  I assure  you, 
I have  no  other  design  but  to  do  you  service.” 

This  uncommon  way  of  expression,  joined  to  the  knight’s  scurvy  figure,  increased  their  mirth, 
which  incensed  him  to  that  degree,  that  this  might  have  carried  things  to  an  extremity,  had  not  the 
innkeeper  luckily  appeared  at  that  juncture.  He  was  a man  whose  burden  of  fat  inclined  him  to 
peace  and  quietness,  yet  when  he  had  observed  such  a strange  disguise  of  human  shape  in  his  old 
armour  and  equipage,  he  could  hardly  forbear  keeping  the  girls  company  in  their  laughter  ; but 
having  the  fear  of  such  a warlike  appearance  before  his  eyes,  he  resolved  to  give  him  good  words,  and 
therefore  accosted  him  civilly  • 

“ Sir  Knight,”  said  he,  “ if  your  worship  be  disposed  to  alight,  you  will  fail  of  nothing  here  but 
of  a bed  ; as  for  all  other  accommodations,  you  may  be  supplied  to  your  mind.” 

Don  Quixote,  observing  the  humility  of  the  governor  of  the  castle  (for  such  the  innkeeper  and 
inn  seemed  to  him),  “ Senior  Castellano,”  said  he,  '‘the  least  thing  in  the  world  suffices  me;  for 

arms  are  the  only  things  I value,  and  combat  is  my  bed  of  repose.” 

2 


io 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


The  innkeeper  thought  he  had  called  him  Castellano,  as  taking  him  to  be  one  of  the  true 
Castilians,  whereas  he  was  indeed  of  Andalusia,  nay,  of  the  neighbourhood  of  St.  Lucar,  as  arrant 
a thief  as  Cacus,  and  as  mischievous  as  a truant  scholar,  or  a court  page,  and  therefore  he  made 
him  this  reply — 

“ At  this  rate,  Sir  Knight,  your  bed  might  be  a pavement,  and  your  rest  to  be  still  awake  ; you 
may  then  safely  alight ; and  I dare  assure  you,  you  can  hardly  miss  being  kept  awake  all  the  year 
long  in  this  house,  much  less  one  single  night  ” 

With  that  he  went  and  held  Don  Quixote’s  stirrup,  who,  having  not  broke  his  fast  that  day, 
dismounted  with  no  small  trouble  or  difficulty.  He  immediately  desired  the  governor  (that  is,  the 
innkeeper)  to  have  special  care  of  his  steed,  assuring  him  that  there  was  not  a better  in  the  universe  ; 
upon  which  the  innkeeper  viewed  him  narrowly,  but  could  not  think  him  to  be  half  so  good  as  Don 
Quixote  said.  However,  having  set  him  up  in  the  stable,  he  came  back  to  the  knight  to  see  what 
he  wanted,  and  found  him  pulling  off  his  armour  by  the  help  of  the  good-natured  girls,  who  had 
already  reconciled  themselves  to  him  ; but  though  they  had  eased  him  of  his  corselet  and  back-plate, 
they  could  by  no  means  undo  his  gorget,  nor  take  off  his  ill-contrived  beaver,  which  he  had  tied  so 
fast  with  green  ribbons  that  it  was  impossible  to  get  it  off  without  cutting  them  : now  he  would  by 
no  means  permit  that,  and  so  was  forced  to  keep  on  his  helmet  all  night,  which  was  one  of  the  most 
pleasant  sights  in  the  world  ; and  while  his  armour  was  taking  off  by  the  two  kind  lasses,  imagining 
them  to  be  persons  of  quality,  and  ladies  of  that  castle,  he  very  gratefully  made  them  the  following 
compliment  (in  imitation  of  an  old  romance) : — 

“ There  never  was  on  earth  a knight 
So  waited  on  by  ladies  fair, 

As  once  was  he,  Don  Quixote  hight, 

When  first  he  left  his  village  dear  : 

Damsels  to  undress  him  ran  with  speed, 

And  princesses  to  dress  his  steed.” 

“ O Rozinante  ! for  that  is  my  horse’s  name,  ladies,  and  mine  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha.  I never 
thought  to  have  discovered  it,  until  some  feats  of  arms,  achieved  by  me  in  your  service,  had  made 
me  better  known  to  your  ladyships ; but  necessity  forcing  me  to  apply  to  present  purpose  that 
passage  of  the  ancient  romance  of  Sir  Lancelot,  which  I now  repeat,  has  extorted  the  secret  from 
me  before  its  time  ; yet  a day  will  come,  when  you  shall  command,  and  I obey,  and  then  the  valour 
of  my  arm  shall  evince  the  reality  of  my  zeal  to  serve  your  ladyships.” 

The  two  females,  who  were  not  used  to  such  rhetorical  speeches,  could  make  no  answer  to  this  ; 
they  only  asked  him  whether  lie  would  eat  anything. 

“ That  I will  with  all  my  heart,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “whatever  it  be,  for  I am  of  opinion 
nothing  can  come  to  me  more  seasonably.” 

Now,  as  ill  luck  would  have  it,  it  happened  to  be  Friday,  and  there  was  nothing  to  be  had  at 
the  inn  but  some  pieces  of  fish,  which  is  called  abadexo  in  Castile,  bacallao  in  Andalusia,  curadillo 
in  some  places,  and  in  others  truchuela,  or  little  trout,  though  after  all  it  is  but  poor  jack  ; so  they 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I I 

asked  him  whether  he  could  eat  any  of  that  truchuela,  because  they  had  no  other  fish  to  give 
him. 

Don  Quixote,  imagining  they  meant  a small  trout,  told  them,  “ That,  provided  there  were  more 
than  one,  it  was  the  same  thing  to  him,  they  would  serve  him  as  well  as  a great  one ; for,’’  continued 
he,  “ it  is  all  one  to  me  whether  I am  paid  a piece  of  eight  in  one  single  piece,  or  in  eight  small 
reals,  which  are  worth  as  much.  Besides,  it  is  probable  these  small  trouts  may  be  like  veal,  which 
is  finer  meat  than  beef ; or  like  the  kid,  which  is  better  than  the  goat.  In  short,  let  it  be  what  it 
will,  so  it  comes  quickly  ; for  the  weight  of  armour  and  the  fatigue  of  travel  are  not  to  be  supported 
without  recruiting  food.” 

Thereupon  they  laid  the  cloth  at  the  inn-door,  for  the  benefit  of  the  fresh  air,  and  the  landlord 
brought  him  a piece  of  that  salt  fish,  but  ill-watered,  and  as  ill-dressed  ; and  as  for  the  bread,  it  was 
as  mouldy  and  brown  as  the  knight’s  armour  But  it  would  have  made  one  laugh  to  have  seen  him 
eat ; for  having  his  helmet  on,  with  his  beaver  lifted  up,  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  feed  himself 
without  help,  so  that  one  of  the  girls  had  that  office  ; but  there  was  no  giving  him  drink  that  way, 
and  he  must  have  gone  without  it,  had  not  the  innkeeper  bored  a cane,  and  setting  one  end  of  it  to 
his  mouth,  poured  the  wine  in  at  the  other;  all  which  the  knight  suffered  patiently,  because  he  would 
not  cut  the  ribbons  that  fastened  his  helmet. 

While  he  was  at  supper,  a swineherd  happened  to  sound  his  cane  trumpet,  or  whistle  of  reeds, 
four  or  five  times  as  he  came  near  the  inn,  which  made  Don  Quixote  the  more  positive  of  his  being 
in  a famous  castle,  where  he  was  entertained  with  music  at  supper ; that  the  poor  jack  was  young 
trout,  the  bread  of  the  finest  flour,  the  girls  great  ladies,  and  the  innkeeper  the  governor  of  the 
castle  : which  made  him  applaud  himself  for  his  resolution,  and  his  setting  out  on  such  an  account. 
The  only  thing  that  vexed  him  was,  that  he  was  not  yet  dubbed  a knight ; for  he  fancied  he  could 
not  lawfully  undertake  any  adventure  till  he  had  received  the  order  of  knighthood. 


CHAPTER  III. 

AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  PLEASANT  METHOD  TAKEN  BY  DON  QUIXOTE  TO  BE  DUBBED  A KNIGHT. 

DON  QUIXOTE’S  mind  being  disturbed  with  that  thought,  he  abridged  even  his  short 
supper  ; and  as  soon  as  he  had  done,  he  called  his  host,  then  shut  him  and  himself  up  in 
the  stable,  and  falling  at  his  feet — 

“ I will  never  rise  from  this  place,”  cried  he,  “ most  valorous  knight,  till  you  have  graciously 
vouchsafed  to  grant  me  a boon,  which  I will  now  beg  of  you,  and  which  will  redound  to  your 
honour  and  the  good  of  mankind.” 

The  innkeeper,  strangely  at  a loss  to  find  his  guest  at  his  feet,  and  talking  at  this  rate, 
endeavoured  to  make  him  rise  ; but  all  in  vain,  till  he  had  promised  to  grant  him  what  he  asked. 

“I  expected  no  less  from  your  great  magnificence,  noble  sir,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “and, 
therefore,  I make  bold  to  tell  you,  that  the  boon  which  I beg,  and  you  generously  condescend  to 
grant  me,  is,  that  to-morrow  ) ou  will  be  pleased  to  bestow  the  honour  of  knighthood  upon  me.  This 
night  I will  watch  my  armour  in  the  chapel  of  your  castle,  and  then  in  the  morning  you  shall  gratify 
me,  as  I passionately  desire,  that  I may  be  duly  qualified  to  seek  out  adventures  in  every  corner  of 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 3 

the  universe,  to  relieve  the  distressed,  according  to  the  laws  of  chivalry,  and  the  inclinations  ol 
knights-errant  like  myself.” 

The  innkeeper,  who,  as  I said,  was  a sharp  fellow,  and  had  already  a shrewd  suspicion  of  the 
disorder  in  his  guest’s  understanding,  was  fully  convinced  of  it  when  he  heard  him  talk  after  this 
manner;  and,  to  make  sport  that  night,  resolved  to  humour  him  in  his  desires,  telling  him  he  was 
highly  to  be  commended  for  his  choice  of  such  an  employment,  which  was  altogether  worthy  a knight 
of  the  first  order,  such  as  his  gallant  deportment  discovered  him  to  be;  that  he  himself  had,  in  his 
youth,  followed  that  honourable  profession,  ranging  through  many  parts  of  the  world  in  search  of 
adventures,  without  so  much  as  forgetting  to  vis.it  the  Percheles  of  Malaga,  the  isles  of  Riaran,  the 
compass  of  Sevil,  the  quicksilver- house  of  Segovia,  the  olive-field  of  Valencia,  the  circle  of  Granada, 
the  wharf  of  St.  Lucar,  the  fountain  of  Cordova,  the  hedge-taverns  of  Toledo,  and  divers  other  places, 
where  he  had  exercised  the  nimbleness  of  his  feet,  and  the  dexterity  of  his  hands,  doing  wrongs  in 
abundance,  soliciting  many  widows,  ruining  some  damsels,  fleecing  young  heirs,  and,  in  a word, 
making  himself  famous  in  most  of  the  courts  of  judicature  in  Spain,  till  at  length  he  retired  to  this 
castle,  where  he  lived  on  his  own  estate,  and  those  of  others,  entertaining  all  knights-errant  of  what 
quality  or  condition  soever,  purely  for  the  great  affection  he  bore  them,  and  to  partake  of  what  they 
got  in  recompense  of  his  good-will.  He  added,  that  his  castle  at  present  had  no  chapel  where  the 
knight  might  keep  the  vigil  of  his  arms,  it  being  pulled  down  in  order  to  be  new  built ; but  that  he 
knew  they  might  lawfully  be  watched  in  any  other  place  in  a case  of  necessity,  and  therefore  he 
might  do  it  that  night  in  the  court-yard  of  the  castle ; and  in  the  morning  (God  willing)  all  the 
necessary  ceremonies  should  be  performed,  so  that  he  might  assure  himself  he  should  be  dubbed  a 
knight,  nay,  as  much  a knight  as  any  one  in  the  world  could  be.  He  then  asked  Don  Quixote 
whether  he  had  any  money 

“Not  a farthing,”  replied  the  knight;  “for  I never  read  in  any  history  of  chivalry  that  any 
knight-errant  ever  carried  money  about  him.” 

“ You  are  mistaken,”  cried  the  innkeeper;  “ for  admit  the  histories  are  silent  in  this  matter,  the 
authors  thinking  it  needless  to  mention  things  so  evidently  necessary  as  money  and  clean  shirts,  yet 
there  is  no  reason  to  believe  the  knights  went  without  either  ; and  you  may  rest  assured,  that  all  the 
knights-errant,  of  whom  so  many  histories  are  full,  had  their  purses  well  lined  to  supply  themselves 
with  necessaries,  and  carried  also  with  them  some  shirts,  and  a small  box  of  salves  to  heal  their 
wounds  ; for  they  had  not  the  conveniency  of  surgeons  to  cure  them  every  time  they  fought  in  fields 
and  deserts,  unless  they  were  so  happy  as  to  have  some  sage  or  magician  for  their  friend  to  give 
them  present  assistance,  sending  them  some  damsel  or  dwarf  through  the  air  in  a cloud,  with  a 
small  bottle  of  water  of  so  great  a virtue,  that  they  no  sooner  tasted  a drop  of  it,  but  their  wounds 
were  as  perfectly  cured  as  if  they  had  never  received  any.  But  when  they  wanted  such  a friend  in 
former  ages,  the  knights  thought  themselves  obliged  to  take  care  that  their  squires  should  be  pro- 
vided with  money  and  other  necessaries,  as  lint  and  salves  to  dress  their  wounds ; and  if  those 
knights  ever  happened  to  have  no  squires,  which  was  but  very  seldom,  then  they  carried  those 


“ He  began  to  walk  about  by  the  horse-trough  with  a graceful  deportment.” — -f>.  i S' 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


15 


things  behind  them  in  a little  bag,  as  if  it  had  been  something  of  greater  value,  and  so  neatly  fitted 
to  their  saddle,  that  it  was  hardly  seen  ; for  had  it  not  been  upon  such  an  account,  the  carrying  of 
wallets  was  not  much  allowed  among  knights -errant.  I must  therefore  advise  you,”  continued  he, 
“nay,  I might  even  charge  and  command  you,  as  you  are  shortly  to  be  my  son  in  chivalry,  never 
from  this  time  forwards  to  ride  without  money,  nor  without  the  other  necessaries  of  which  I spoke 
to  you,  which  you  will  find  very  beneficial  when  you  least  expect  it.” 

Don  Quixote  promised  to  perform  very  punctually  all  his  injunctions;  and  so  they  disposed 
everything  in  order  to  his  watching  his  arms  in  a great  yard  that  adjoined  to  the  inn.  To  which 
purpose  the  knight,  having  got  them  all  together,  laid  them  in  a horse-trough  close  by  a well  in  that 
yard;  then  bracing  his  target,  and  grasping  his  lance,  just  as  it  grew  dark,  he  began  to  walk  about 
by  the  horse-trough  with  a graceful  deportment.  In  the  meanwhile  the  innkeeper  acquainted  all 
those  that  were  in  the  house  with  the  extravagances  of  his  guest,  his  watching  his  arms,  and  his 
hopis  of  being  made  a knight.  They  all  wondered  at  so  strange  a kind  of  folly,  and  went  on  to 
observe  him  at  a distance;  where  they  saw  him  sometimes  walk  about  with  a great  deal  of  gravity, 
and  sometimes  lean  on  his  lance,  with  his  eyes  all  the  while  fixed  upon  his  arms.  It  was  now 
night,  but  yet  the  moon  did  shine  with  such  a brightness,  as  might  almost  have  vied  with  that  of 
the  luminary  which  lent  it  her;  so  that  the  knight  was  wholly  exposed  to  the  spectators’  view. 

While  he  was  thus  employed,  one  of  the  carriers  who  lodged  in  the  inn  came  out  to  water  his 
mules,  which  he  could  not  do  without  removing  the  arms  out  of  the  trough.  With  that,  Don 
Quixote,  who  saw  him  make  towards  him,  cried  out  to  him  aloud — “ Oh  thou,  whoever  thou  art,  rash 
knight,  that  prepares  to  lay  thy  hands  on  the  arms  of  the  most  valorous  knight-errant  that  ever 
wore  a sword,  take  heed  ; do  not  audaciously  attempt  to  profane  them  with  a touch,  lest  instant 
death  be  the  too  sure  reward  of  thy  temerity.”  But  the  carrier  never  regarded  these  dreadful 
threats  ; and  laying  hold  on  the  armour  by  the  straps,  without  any  more  ado  threw  it  a good  way 
from  him  ; though  it  had  been  better  for  him  to  have  let  it  alone  , for  Don  Quixote  no  sooner  saw 
this,  but  lifting  up  his  eyes  to  heaven,  and  addressing  his  thoughts,  as  it  seemed,  to  his  lady 
Dulcinea,  “ Assist  me,  lady,”  cried  he,  “ in  the  first  opportunity  that  offers  itself  to  your  faithful 
slave  ; nor  let  your  favour  and  protection  be  denied  me  in  this  first  trial  of  my  valour  ! ” Repeating 
such  like  ejaculations,  he  let  slip  his  target,  and  lifting  up  his  lance  with  both  his  hands,  he  gave  the 
carrier  such  a terrible  knock  on  his  inconsiderate  head  with  his  lance,  that  he  laid  him  at  his  feet  in 
a woful  condition  ; and  had  he  backed  that  biow  with  another,  the  fellow  would  certainly  have  had 
no  need  of  a surgeon.  This  done,  Don  Quixote  took  up  his  armour,  laid  it  again  in  the  horse- 
trough,  and  then  walked  on  backwards  and  forwards  with  as  great  unconcern  as  he  did  at  first. 

Soon  after  another  carrier,  not  knowing  what  had  happened,  came  also  to  water  his  mules, 
while  the  first  yet  lay  on  the  ground  in  a trance  ; but  as  he  offered  to  clear  the  trough  of  the 
armour,  Don  Quixote,  without  speaking  a word,  or  imploring  any  one’s  assistance,  once  more 
dropped  his  target,  lilted  up  his  lance,  and  then  let  it  fall  so  heavily  on  the  fellow’s  pate,  that  without 
damaging  his  lance,  he  broke  the  carrier’s  head  in  three  or  four  places.  His  outcry  soon  brought 


DON  QUIXOTE  DF.  LA  MANCHA. 


I 6 

thither  all  the  people  in  the  inn,  and  the  landlord  among  the  rest ; which  Don  Quixote  perceiving, 

“ Thou  Queen  of  Beauty,”  cried  he,  bracing  on  his  shield,  and  drawing  his  sword,  “ thou  courage  and 
vigour  of  my  weakened  heart,  now  is  the  time  when  thou  must  enliven  thy  adventurous  slave  with 
the  beams  of  thy  greatness,  while  this  moment  he  is  engaging  in  so  terrible  an  adventure!” 
With  this,  in  his  opinion,  he  found  himself  supplied  with  such  an  addition  of  courage,  that  had  all 
the  carriers  in  the  world  at  once  attacked  him,  he  would  undoubtedly  have  faced  them  all. 

On  the  other  side,  the  carriers,  enraged  to  see  their  comrades  thus  used,  though  they  were 
afraid  to  come  near,  gave  the  knight  such  a volley  of  stones,  that  he  was  forced  to  shelter  himself  as 
well  as  he  could  under  the  covert  of  his  target,  without  daring  to  go  far  from  the  horse-trough,  lest 
he  should  seem  to  abandon  his  arms.  The  innkeeper  called  to  the  carriers  as  loud  as  he  could  to 
let  him  alone ; that  he  had  told  them  already  he  was  mad,  and  consequently  the  law  would  acquit 
him,  though  he  should  kill  them.  Don  Quixote  also  made  yet  more  noise,  calling  them  false  and 
treacherous  villains,  and  the  lord  of  the  castle  base  and  inhospitable,  and  a discourteous  knight,  for 
suffering  a knight-errant  to  be  so  abused.  “ I would  make  thee  know,”  cried  he,  “ what  a perfidious 
wretch  thou  art,  had  I but  received  the  order  of  knighthood ; but  for  you,  base,  ignominious  rabble  ! 
fling  on,  do  your  worst ; draw  nearer  if  you  dare,  and  receive  the  reward  of  your  indiscretion  and 
insolence.”  This  he  spoke  with  so  much  spirit  and  undauntedness,  that  he  struck  a terror  into  all  his 
assailants ; so  that  partly  through  fear,  and  partly  through  the  innkeeper’s  persuasions,  they  gave 
over  flinging  stones  at  him  ; and  he,  on  his  side,  permitted  the  enemy  to  carry  off  their  wounded, 
and  then  returned  to  the  guard  of  his  arms  as  calm  and  composed  as  before. 

The  innkeeper,  who  began  somewhat  to  disrelish  these  mad  tricks  of  his  guest,  resolved  to 
bestow  on  him  that  unlucky  knighthood,  to  prevent  farther  mischief : so  coming  to  him,  he  excused 
himself  for  the  insolence  of  those  base  scoundrels,  as  being  done  without  his  privity  or  consent ; but 
their  audaciousness,  he  said,  was  sufficiently  punished.  He  added,  that  he  had  already  told  him 
there  was  no  chapel  in  his  castle ; and  that  indeed  there  was  no  need  of  one  to  finish  the  rest  of  the 
ceremony  of  knighthood,  which  consisted  only  in  the  application  of  the  sword  to  the  neck  and 
shoulders,  as  he  had  read  in  the  register  of  the  ceremonies  of  the  order ; and  that  this  might  be 
performed  as  well  in  a field  as  anywhere  else  ; that  he  had  already  fulfilled  the  obligation  of  watching 
his  arms,  which  required  no  more  than  two  hours’  watch,  whereas  he  had  been  four  hours  upon  the 
guard.  Don  Quixote,  who  easily  believed  him,  told  him  he  was  ready  to  obey  him,  and  desired  him 
to  make  an  end  of  the  business  as  soon  as  possible,  for  if  he  were  but  knighted,  and  should  see 
himself  once  attacked,  he  believed  he  should  not  leave  a man  alive  in  the  castle,  except  those 
whom  he  should  desire  him  to  spare  for  his  sake. 

Upon  this  the  innkeeper,  lest  the  knight  should  proceed  to  such  extremities,  fetched  the  book 
in  which  he  used  to  set  down  the  carriers’  accounts  for  straw  and  barley  ; and  having  brought  with 
him  the  two  girls,  already  mentioned,  and  a boy  that  held  a piece  of  lighted  candle  in  his  hand,  he 
ordered  Don  Quixote  to  kneel ; then  reading  in  his  manual,  as  if  he  had  been  repeating  some  pious 
oration,  in  the  midst  of  his  devotion  he  lifted  up  his  hand,  and  gave  him  a good  blow  on  the  neck, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 7 


and  then  a gentle  slap  on  the  back  with  the  flat  of  his  sword,  still  mumbling  some  words  between 
his  teeth  in  the  tone  of  a prayer. 

After  this  he  ordered  one  of  the  girls  to  gird  the  sword  about  the  knight’s  waist ; which  she 
did  with  much  solemnity,  and,  I may  add,  discretion,  considering  how  hard  a thing  it  was  to  forbear 
laughing  at  every  circumstance  of  the  ceremony  : it  is  true,  the  thoughts  of  the  knight’s  late  prowess 
did  not  a little  contribute  to  the  suppression  of  her  mirth.  As  she  girded  on  his  sword,  “ Heaven,” 
cried  she,  “ make  your  worship  a lucky  knight,  and  prosper  you  wherever  you  go.” 

Don  Quixote  desired  to  know  her  name,  that  he  might  understand  to  whom  he  was  indebted 
for  the  favour  she  had  bestowed  upon  him,  and  also  make  her  partaker  of  the  honour  he  was  to 
acquire  by  the  strength  of  his  arm.  To  which  the  lady  answered  with  all  humility,  that  her  name 
was  Tolosa,  a cobbler’s  daughter,  that  kept  a stall  among  the  little  shops  of  Sanchobinaya,  at  Toledo  ; 
and  that  whenever  he  pleased  to  command  her,  she  would  be  his  humble  servant.  Don  Quixote 
begged  of  her  to  do  him  the  favour  to  add  the  title  of  lady  to  her  name,  and  for  his  sake  to  be 
called  from  that  time  the  Lady  Tolosa;  which  she  promised  to  do.  Her  companion  having  buckled 
on  his  spurs,  occasioned  a like  conference  between  them ; and  when  he  had  asked  her  name,  she 
told  him  she  went  by  the  name  of  Miller,  being  the  daughter  of  an  honest  miller  of  Antequera.  Our 
new  knight  entreated  her  also  to  style  herself  the  Lady  Miller,  making  her  new  offers  of  service. 

These  extraordinary  ceremonies  (the  like  never  seen  before)  being  thus  hurried  over  in  a kind 
of  post-haste,  Don  Quixote  could  not  rest  till  he  had  taken  the  field  in  quest  of  adventures ; there- 
fore, having  immediately  saddled  his  Rozinante,  and  being  mounted,  he  embraced  the  innkeeper, 
and  returned  him  so  many  thanks  at  so  extravagant  a rate,  for  the  obligation  he  had  laid  upon  him 
in  dubbing  him  a knight,  that  it  is  impossible  to  give  a true  relation  of  them  all  : to  which  the  inn- 
keeper, in  haste  to  get  rid  of  him,  returned  as  rhetorical  though  shorter  answers  ; and  without  stopping 
his  horse  for  the  reckoning,  was  glad  with  all  his  heart  to  see  him  go. 


3 


CHAPTER  IV. 

WHAT  BEFELL  THE  KNIGHT  AFTER  HE  HAD  LEFT  THE  INN. 

A URORA  began  to  usher  in  the  morn,  when  Don  Quixote  sallied  out  of  the  inn,  so  well 
j pleased,  so  gay,  and  so  over-joyed  to  find  himself  knighted,  that  he  infused  the  same  satis- 
faction into  his  horse,  who  seemed  ready  to  burst  his  girths  for  joy.  But  calling  to  mind  the 
admonitions  which  the  innkeeper  had  given  him,  concerning  the  provision  of  necessary  accom- 
modation in  his  travels,  particularly  money  and  clean  shirts,  he  resolved  to  return  home  to  furnish 
himself  with  them,  and  likewise  get  him  a squire,  designing  to  entertain  as  such  a labouring  man, 
his  neighbour,  who  was  poor  and  had  a charge  of  children,  but  yet  very  fit  for  the  office.  With 
this  resolution  he  took  the  road  which  led  to  his  own  village  ; and  Rozinante,  that  seemed  to  know 
his  will  by  instinct,  began  to  carry  him  at  a round  trot  so  briskly,  that  his  heels  seemed  scarcely  to 
touch  the  ground.  The  knight  had  not  travelled  far,  when  he  fancied  he  heard  an  effeminate  voice 
complaining  in  a thicket  on  his  right  hand.  “ I thank  Heaven,"  said  he,  when  he  heard  the  cries, 
“ for  favouring  me  so  soon  with  an  opportunity  to  perform  the  duty  of  my  profession,  and  reap  the 
fruits  of  my  desire  ! for  these  complaints  are  certainly  the  moans  of  some  distressed  creature  who 
wants  my  present  help.”  Then  turning  to  that  side  with  all  the  speed  which  Rozinante  could  make, 
he  no  sooner  came  into  the  wood  but  he  found  a mare  tied  to  an  oak,  and  to  another  a young  lad 
about  fifteen  years  of  age,  naked  from  the  waist  upwards.  This  was  he  who  made  such  a lamentable 
outcry  ; and  not  without  cause,  for  a lusty  country  fellow  was  strapping  him  soundly  with  a girdle, 
at  every  stripe  putting  him  in  mind  of  a proverb,  “ Keep  your  mouth  shut,  and  your  eyes  open, 
sirrah.” 

“Good  master,”  cried  the  boy.  “ I’ll  do  so  no  more  ; as  I hope  to  be  saved,  I’ll  never  do  so 
again  ! indeed,  master,  hereafter  I’ll  take  more  care  of  your  goods. 


By  the  sun  that  shines,  I have  a good  mind  to  rur.  thee  through  the  body  with  my  lance." — p.  2u 


20 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Don  Quixote  seeing  this,  cried  in  an  angry  tone,  “ Discourteous  knight,  ’tis  an  unworthy  act  to 
strike  a person  who  is  not  able  to  defend  himself : come,  bestride  thy  steed,  and  take  thy  lance  ” — 
for  the  farmer  had  something  that  looked  like  one  leaning  to  the  same  tree  to  which  his  mare  was 
tied — “then  I’ll  make  thee  know  thou  hast  acted  the  part  of  a coward." 

The  country  fellow,  who  gave  himself  for  lost  at  the  sight  of  an  apparition  in  armour 
brandishing  his  lance  at  his  face,  answered  in  mild  and  submissive  words.  “Sir  Knight,”  cried  he, 
“ this  boy,  whom  I am  chastising,  is  my  servant,  employed  by  me  to  look  after  a flock  of  sheep, 
which  I have  not  far  off : but  he  is  so  heedless,  that  I lose  some  of  them  every  day.  Now, 
because  I correct  him  for  his  carelessness  or  his  knavery,  he  says  I do  it  out  of  covetousness,  to 
defraud  him  of  his  wages  ; but,  upon  my  life  and  soul,  he  belies  me.” 

“ What ! the  lie  in  my  presence,  you  saucy  clown  !”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ by  the  sun  that  shines, 

I have  a good  mind  to  run  thee  through  the  body  with  my  lance.  Pay  the  boy  this  instant,  without 
any  more  words,  or,  by  the  power  that  rules  us  all,  I’ll  immediately  dispatch  and  annihilate  thee  : 
come,  unbind  him  this  moment.” 

The  countryman  hung  down  his  head,  and  without  any  further  reply  unbound  the  boy  ; who 
being  asked  by  Don  Quixote  what  his  master  owed  him,  told  him  it  was  nine  months’  wages,  at 
seven  reals  a month.  The  knight,  having  cast  it  up,  found  it  came  to  sixty-three  reals  in  all ; 
which  he  ordered  the  farmer  to  pay  the  fellow  immediately,  unless  he  intended  to  lose  his  life  that 
very  moment.  The  poor  countryman,  trembling  tor  fear,  told  him  that,  as  he  was  on  the  brink  of 
death,  by  the  oath  he  had  sworn  (by-the-by  he  had  not  sworn  at  all),  he  did  not  owe  the  lad  so 
much  ; for  there  was  to  be  deducted  for  three  pair  of  shoes  which  he  had  bought  him,  and  a real 
for  his  being  let  blood  twice  when  he  was  sick. 

“ That  may  be,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  set  the  price  of  the  shoes  and  the  bleeding  against 
the  stripes  which  you  have  given  him  without  cause  : for  if  he  has  used  the  shoe-leather  which  you 
paid  for,  you  have  in  return  misused  and  impaired  his  skin  sufficiently  ; and  if  the  surgeon  let  him 
blood  when  he  was  sick,  you  have  drawn  blood  from  him  now  he  is  in  health  ; so  that  he  owes  you 
nothing  on  that  account.” 

“ The  worst  is,  Sir  Knight,”  cried  the  farmer,  “ that  I have  no  money  about  me  ; but  let  Andrew 
go  home  with  me,  and  I’ll  pay  him  every  piece  out  of  hand.” 

“ What ! I go  home  with  him  !”  cried  the  youngster  ; “ the  devil  a-bit,  sir  ! not  I,  truly  ; I know 
better  things  : for  he’d  no  sooner  have  me  by  himself,  but  he’d  flay  me  alive,  like  another  St. 
Bartholomew.” 

“ He  will  never  dare  to  do  it,”  replied  Don  Quixote ; “ I command  him,  and  that’s  sufficient  to 
restrain  him  ; therefore,  provided  he  will  swear  by  the  order  of  knighthood  which  has  been  con- 
ferred upon  him,  that  he  will  duly  observe  this  regulation,  I will  freely  let  him  go,  and  then  thou  art 
secure  of  thy  money.” 

“ Good  sir,  take  heed  what  you  say,”  cried  the  boy ; “ for  my  master  is  no  knight,  nor  ever  was 
of  any  order  in  his  life  : he’s  John  Haldudo,  the  rich  farmer  cf  Quintinar.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


2 [ 

“This  signifies  little,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “for  there  may  be  knights  among  the 
Haldudos ; besides,  the  brave  man  carves  out  his  fortune,  and  every  man  is  the  son  of  his  own 
works.” 

“ That’s  true,  sir,”  quoth  Andrew ; “ but  of  what  works  can  this  master  of  mine  be  the  son, 
who  denies  me  my  wages,  which  I have  earned  with  the  sweat  of  my  brows  ? ” 

“ I do  not  deny  to  pay  thee  thy  wages,  honest  Andrew,”  cried  the  master ; “ be  but  so  kind  as 
go  along  with  me,  and  by  all  the  orders  of  knighthood  in  the  world,  I swear,  I’ll  pay  thee  every 
piece,  as  I said ; nay,  and  perfumed  to  boot.” 

“You  may  spare  your  perfume,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “do  but  pay  him  in  reals,  and  I am 
satisfied : but  be  sure  you  perform  your  oath  ; for  if  you  fail,  I myself  swear  by  the  same  oath  to 
return  and  find  you  out,  and  punish  you,  though  you  should  hide  yourself  as  close  as  a lizard.  And 
if  you  will  be  informed  who  it  is  that  lays  these  injunctions  on  you,  that  you  may  understand 
how  highly  it  concerns  you  to  observe  them,  know  I am  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha, 
the  righter  of  wrongs,  the  revenger  and  redresser  of  grievances ; and  so  farewell  : but  remember 
what  you  have  promised  and  sworn,  as  you  will  answer  the  contrary  at  your  peril.”  This  said,  he 
clapped  spurs  to  Rozinante,  and  quickly  left  the  master  and  the  man  a good  way  behind  him. 

The  countryman,  who  followed  him  with  both  his  eyes,  no  sooner  perceived  that  he  was  passed 
the  woods,  and  quite  out  of  sight,  but  he  went  back  to  his  boy  Andrew.  “ Come,  child,”  said  he,  “ I 
will  pay  thee  what  I owe  thee,  as  that  righter  of  wrongs  and  redresser  of  grievances  has 
ordered  me.” 

" Ay,”  quoth  Andrew,  “on  my  word,  you  will  do  well  to  fulfil  the  commands  of  that  good 
knight,  whom  Heaven  grant  long  to  live ; for  he  is  so  brave  a man,  and  so  just  a judge,  that,  if  you 
don’t  pay  me  he’ll  come  back  and  make  his  words  good  ” 

“ I dare  swear  as  much,”  answered  the  master ; “ and  to  show  thee  how  much  I love  thee,  I am 
willing  to  increase  the  debt,  that  I may  enlarge  the  payment  ” With  that  he  caught  the  youngster 
by  the  arm,  and  tied  him  again  to  the  tree  ; where  he  handled  him  so  unmercifully,  that  scarce  any 
signs  of  life  were  left  in  him.  “ Now  call  your  righter  of  wrongs,  Mr.  Andrew,”  cried  the  farmer; 
“and  you  shall  see  he  will  never  be  able  to  undo  what  I have  done ; though  I think  it  is  but  a part 
of  what  I ought  to  do,  for  I have  a good  mind  to  flay  you  alive,  as  you  said  I would,  you  rascal.’ 
However,  he  untied  him  at  last,  and  gave  him  leave  to  go  and  seek  out  his  judge,  in  order  to  have 
his  decree  put  in  execution.  Andrew  went  his  ways,  not  very  well  pleased,  you  may  be  sure,  yet 
fully  resolved  to  find  out  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  and  give  him  an  exact  account 
of  the  whole  transaction,  that  he  might  pay  the  abuse  with  seven  fold  usury  ; in  short,  he  crept  off 
sobbing  and  weeping,  while  his  master  stayed  behind  laughing.  And  in  this  manner  was  this  wrong 
redressed  by  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha. 

In  the  meantime,  being  highly  pleased  with  himself  and  what  had  happened,  imagining  he 
had  given  a most  fortunate  and  noble  beginning  to  his  feats  of  arms,  as  he  went  on  towards  his 
village,  “Oh,  most  beautiful  of  beauties!”  said  he,  with  a low  voice;  “ Dulcinea  del  Toboso ! well 


In  spite  of  his  arms,  he  thrashed  him  like  a wheat-sheaf.”  24 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


23 


mayst  thou  deem  thyself  most  happy,  since  it  was  thy  good  fortune  to  captivate  and  hold  a willing 
slave  to  thy  pleasure,  so  valorous  and  renowned  a knight  as  is,  and  ever  shall  be,  Don  Quixote  de  la 
Mancha,  who,  as  all  the  world  knows,  had  the.  honour  of  knighthood  bestowed  on  him  but  yesterday, 
and  this  day  redressed  the  greatest  wrong  and  grievance  that  ever  injustice  could  design,  or  cruelty 
commit ; this  day  has  he  wrested  the  scourge  out  of  the  hands  of  that  tormentor,  who  so 
unmercifully  treated  a tender  infant,  without  the  least  occasion  given.” 

Just  as  he  had  said  this,  he  found  himself  at  a place  where  four  roads  met,  and  this  made 
him  presently  bethink  of  those  cross-ways  which  often  use  to  put  knights-errant  to  a stand,  to 
consult  with  themselves  which  way  they  should  take,  and,  that  he  might  follow  their  example,  he 
stopped  awhile  ; and  after  he  had  seriously  reflected  on  the  matter,  gave  Rozinante  the  reins, 
subjecting  his  own  will  to  that  of  his  horse,  who,  pursuing  his  first  intent,  took  the  way  that  led 
to  his  own  stable. 

Don  Quixote  had  not  gone  above  two  miles,  but  he  discovered  a company  of  people  riding 
towards  him,  who  proved  to  be  merchants  of  Toledo,  that  were  going  to  buy  silks  in  Murcia.  They 
were  six  in  all,  every'  one  screened  with  an  umbrella,  besides  four  servants  on  horseback,  and  three 
muleteers  on  foot.  The  knight  no  sooner  perceived  them,  but  he  imagined  this  to  be  some  new 
adventure,  and,  because  he  was  resolved  to  imitate,  as  much  as  possible,  the  passages  which  he  read 
in  his  books,  he  was  pleased  to  represent  this  to  himself  as  such  a particular  adventure  as  he  had  a 
singular  desire  to  meet  with  ; and  so,  with  a dreadful  grace  and  assurance,  fixing  himself  in  his 
stirrups,  couching  his  lance,  and  covering  his  breast  with  his  target,  he  posted  himself  in  the  middle 
of  the  road,  expecting  the  coming  up  of  the  supposed  knights-errant.  As  soon  as  they  came  within 
hearing,  with  a loud  voice  and  haughty  tone,  “Hold!”  cried  he;  “let  all  mankind  stand,  nor 
hope  to  pass  on  further,  unless  all  mankind  acknowledge  and  confess  that  there  is  not  in  the 
universe  a more  beautiful  damsel  than  the  Empress  of  La  Mancha,  the  peerless  Dulcinea  del 
Toboso.” 

At  those  words  the  merchants  made  a halt,  to  view  the  unaccountable  figure  of  their  opponent ; 
and  easily  conjecturing,  both  by  his  expression  and  disguise,  that  the  poor  gentleman  had  lost  his 
senses,  they  were  willing  to  understand  the  meaning  of  that  strange  confession  which  he  would 
force  from  them  ; and  therefore  one  of  the  company,  who  loved  and  understood  raillery,  having 
discretion  to  manage  it,  undertook  to  talk  to  him.  “Signor  cavalier,"  cried  he,  “we  do  not  know 
this  worthy  lady  you  talk  of,  but  be  pleased  to  let  us  see  her,  and  then,  if  we  find  her  possessed  of 
those  matchless  charms  of  which  you  assert  her  to  be  the  mistress,  we  will  freely,  and  without  the 
least  compulsion,  own  the  truth  which  you  would  extort  from  us.” 

“Had  I once  shown  you  that  beauty,"  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ what  wonder  would  it  be  to 
acknowledge  so  notorious  a truth  ? The  importance  of  the  thing  lies  in  obliging  you  to  believe  it. 
confess  it,  swear  it,  and  maintain  it,  without  seeing  her ; and  therefore  make  this  acknowledgment 
this  very  moment,  or  know  that  it  is  with  me  you  must  join  in  battle,  ye  proud  and  unreasonable 


24 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


mortals  Come,  one  by  one,  as  the  laws  of  chivalry  require,  or  ail  at  once,  according  to  the 
dishonourable  practice  of  men  of  your  stamp ; here  I expect  you  all  my  single  self,  and  will  stand 
the  encounter,  confiding  in  the  justice  of  my  cause.” 

“Sir  Knight,”  replied  the  merchant,  “I  beseech  you,  in  the  name  of  all  the  princes  here 
present,  that,  for  the  discharge  of  our  consciences,  which  will  not  permit  us  to  affirm  a thing  we 
never  heard  or  saw,  and  which,  besides,  tends  so  much  to  the  dishonour  of  the  empresses  and 
queens  of  Alcaria  and  Estramadura,  your  worship  will  vouchsafe  to  let  us  see  some  portrait  of  that 
lady,  though  it  were  no  bigger  than  a grain  of  wheat;  for  by  a small  sample  we  may  judge  of  the 
whole  piece,  and  by  that  means  rest  secure  and  satisfied,  and  you  contented  and  appeased.  Nay,  I 
verily  believe  that  we  all  find  ourselves  already  so  inclinable  to  comply  with  you,  that  though 
her  picture  should  represent  her  to  be  blind  of  one  eye,  and  distilling  vermilion  and  brimstone 
at  the  other,  yet,  to  oblige  you,  we  shall  be  ready  to  say  in  her  favour  whatever  your  worship 
desires.” 

“ Distil ! ye  infamous  scoundrels,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  in  a burning  rage ; “ distil,  say  you  ? 
Know  that  nothing  distils  from  her  but  amber  and  civet,  neither  is  she  defective  in  her  make 
or  shape,  but  more  straight  than  a Guadaramian  spindle.  But  you  shall  all  severely  pay  for 
the  horrid  blasphemy  which  thou  hast  uttered  against  the  transcendent  beauty  of  my  incomparable 
lady.” 

Saying  this,  with  his  lance  couched,  he  ran  so  furiously  at  the  merchant  who  thus  provoked  him, 
that  had  not  good  fortune  so  ordered  it  that  Rozinante  should  stumble  and  fall  in  the  midst  of  his 
career,  the  audacious  trifler  had  paid  dear  for  his  raillery  ; but  as  Rozinante  fell,  he  threw  down  his 
master,  who  rolled  and  tumbled  a good  way  on  the  ground,  without  being  able  to  get  upon  his  legs, 
though  he  used  all  his  skill  and  strength  to  effect  it,  so  encumbered  he  was  with  his  lance,  target, 
spurs,  helmet,  and  the  weight  of  his  rusty  armour.  However,  in  this  helpless  condition,  he  played 
the  hero  with  his  tongue. 

“Stay,”  cried  he,  “cowards,  rascals;  do  not  fly!  it  is  not  through  my  fault  that  I lie  here,  but 
through  that  of  my  horse,  ye  poltroons  ! ” 

One  of  the  grooms,  who  was  none  of  the  best-natured  creatures,  hearing  the  overthrown 
knight  thus  insolently  treat  his  master,  could  not  hear  it  without  returning  him  an  answer  on  his 
ribs  ; and  therefore,  coming  up  to  him  as  he  lay  wallowing,  he  snatched  his  lance,  and  having  broke 
it  to  pieces,  he  so  belaboured  Don  Quixote’s  sides  with  one  of  them,  that,  in  spite  of  his  arms,  he 
thrashed  him  like  a wheat-sheaf.  His  master  indeed  called  to  him  not  to  lay  on  him  so  vigorously, 
and  to  let  him  alone ; but  the  fellow,  whose  hand  was  in,  would  not  give  over  rib-roasting  the  knight 
till  he  had  tired  out  of  his  passion  and  himself ; and  therefore,  running  to  the  other  pieces  of  the 
broken  lance,  he  fell  to  it  again  without  ceasing,  till  he  had  splintered  them  all  on  the  knight’s 
iron  enclosure. 

He,  on  his  side,  notwithstanding  all  this  storm  of  bastinadoes,  lay  all  the  while  bellowing, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


25 


threatening  heaven  and  earth,  and  those  villanous  ruffians,  as  he  took  them  to  be.  At  last  the 
mule-driver  was  tired,  and  the  merchants  pursued  their  journey,  sufficiently  furnished  with  matter 
for  discourse  at  the  poor  knight’s  expense.  When  he  found  himself  alone  he  tried  once  more  to  get 
on  his  feet ; but  if  he  could  not  do  it  when  he  had  the  use  of  his  limbs,  how  should  he  do  it  now. 
bruised  and  battered  as  he  was  ? But  yet,  for  all  this,  he  esteemed  himself  a happy  man,  being  still 
persuaded  that  his  misfortune  was  one  of  those  accidents  common  in  knight-errantry,  and  such  a one 
as  he  could  wholly  attribute  to  the  falling  of  his  horse ; nor  could  he  possibly  get  up.  so  sore  and 
mortified  his  body  was  all  over. 


4 


CHAPTER  V. 

A FURTHER  ACCOUNT  OF  OUR  KNIGHT’S  MISFORTUNES. 

DON  QUIXOTE,  perceiving  that  he  was  not  able  to  stir,  resolved  to  have  recourse  to  his 

signal  remedy,  which  was  to  bethink  himself  what  passage  in  his  books  ought  afford  him 

some  comfort ; and  presently  his  folly  brought  to  his  remembrance  that  story  of  Baldwm^  J 

Marquis  of  Mantua,  when  Chariot  left  the  former  wounded  on  the  mountain  . a s ory 

known  by  little  children,  not  unknown  to  young  men  and  women  celebrated  and  even  bdmv^by 

the  old  and  yet  not  a jot  more  authentic  than  the  miracles  of  Mahomet.  Tins  seemed  to  h,m  if 

made  on  purpose  for  his  present  circumstances,  and  therefore  he  fell  a rolling  and  tumbhng  up  and 

down,  expressing  the  greatest  pain  and  resentment,  and  breathing  out,  with  a langmshmg  votce, 

same  complaints  which  the  wounded  Knight  of  the  Wood  is  said  to  have  ma  e . 

“ Alas  ! where  are  you,  lady  dear, 

That  for  my  woe  you  do  not  moan  ? 

You  little  know  what  ails  me  here, 

Or  are  to  me  disloyal  grown  ! ” 

Thus  he  went  on  with  the  lamentations  in  that  romance,  till  he  came  to  these  verses 

“ Oh,  thou,  my  uncle  and  my  prince. 

“ Marquis  of  Mantua,  noble  lord  ! ” 

when  kind  Fortune  so  ordered  it  that  a ploughman,  who  lived  in  the  same  village,  and  near  his 


Alas  ! where  are  you,  lady  dear, 

That  for  my  woe  you  do  not  moan  ?” — f>.  26. 


28 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


house,  happened  to  pass  by,  as  he  came  from  the  mill  with  a sack  of  wheat.  The  fellow,  seeing  a 
man  lie  at  his  full  length  on  the  ground,  asked  him  who  he  was,  and  why  he  made  such  a sad 
complaint. 

Don  Quixote,  whose  distempered  brain  presently  represented  to  him  the  countryman  for  the 
Marquis  of  Mantua,  his  imaginary  uncle,  made  him  no  answer,  but  went  on  with  the  romance, 
giving  him  an  account  of  his  misfortunes,  and  of  the  loves  of  his  wife  and  the  emperor’s  son,  just  as 
the  book  relates  them. 

The  fellow  stared,  much  amazed  to  hear  a man  talk  such  unaccountable  stuff,  and  taking  off 
the  visor  of  his  helmet — broken  all  to  pieces  with  blows  bestowed  upon  it  by  the  mule-driver — he 
wiped  off  the  dust  that  covered  his  face,  and  presently  knew  the  gentleman. 

“ Master  Quixada,”  cried  he  (for  so  he  was  properly  called  when  he  had  the  right  use  of 
his  senses,  and  had  not  yet  from  a sober  gentleman  transformed  himself  into  a wandering  knight), 
“ how  came  you  in  this  condition  ? ” 

But  the  other  continued  his  romance,  and  made  no  answers  to  all  the  questions  the  countryman 
put  to  him  but  what  followed  in  course  in  the  book  ; which  the  good  man  perceiving,  he  took  off 
the  battered  adventurer’s  armour  as  well  as  he  could,  and  fell  a searching  for  his  wounds ; but 
finding  no  sign  of  blood,  or  any  other  hurt,  he  endeavoured  to  set  him  upon  his  legs,  and  at  last, 
with  a great  deal  of  trouble,  he  heaved  him  upon  his  own  ass,  as  being  the  more  easy  and  gentle 
carriage.  He  also  got  all  the  knight’s  arms  together,  not  leaving  behind  so  much  as  the  splinters  of 
his  lance ; and  having  tied  them  up  and  laid  them  on  Rozinante,  which  he  took  by  the  bridle,  and 
his  ass  by  the  halter,  he  led  them  all  towards  the  village,  and  trudged  a-foot  himself,  very  pensive, 
while  he  reflected  on  the  extravagances  which  he  heard  Don  Quixote  utter. 

Nor  was  Don  Quixote  himself  less  melancholy,  for  he  felt  himself  so  bruised  and  battered  that 
he  could  hardly  sit  on  the  ass ; and  now  and  then  he  breathed  such  grievous  sighs  as  seemed  to 
pierce  the  very  skies,  which  moved  his  compassionate  neighbour  once  more  to  entreat  him  to  declare 
to  him  the  cause  of  his  grief.  But  one  would  have  imagined  the  devil  prompted  him  with  stories 
that  had  some  resemblance  of  his  circumstances,  for  in  that  instant,  wholly  forgetting  Baldwin,  he 
bethought  him  of  the  Moor  Abindaraez,  whom  Rodrigo  de  Narvaez,  Alcayde  of  Antequera,  took 
and  carried  prisoner  to  his  castle ; so  that,  when  the  husbandman  asked  him  how  he  did,  and  what 
ailed  him,  he  answered,  word  for  word,  as  the  prisoner  Abindaraez  replied  to  Rodrigo  de  Narvaez, 
in  the  “Diana”  of  George  di  Monte  Mayor,  where  that  adventure  is  related;  applying  it  so  properly 
to  his  purpose,  that  the  countryman  wished  himself  anywhere  rather  than  within  the  hearing  of 
such  strange  nonsense  ; and  being  now  fully  convinced  that  his  neighbour’s  brains  were  turned, 
he  made  all  the  haste  he  could  to  the  village,  to  be  rid  of  his  troublesome  impertinences. 

Don  Quixote,  in  the  meantime,  thus  went  on  : — “You  must  know,  Don  Rodrigo  de  Narvaez, 
that  this  beautiful  Xerifa,  of  whom  I gave  you  an  account,  is  at  present  the  most  lovely  Dulcinea 
del  Toboso,  for  whose  sake  I have  done,  still  do,  and  will  achieve  the  most  famous  deeds  of 
chivalry  that  ever  were,  are,  or  ever  shall  be  seen  in  the  universe ! ” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


29 


“Good  sir!”  replied  the  husbandman,  “as  I am  a sinner,  1 am  not  Don  R.odrigo  de  Narvaez, 
nor  the  Marquis  of  Mantua,  but  Pedro  Alonzo  by  name,  your  worship’s  neighbour ; nor  are  you 
Baldwin,  nor  Abindaraez,  but  only  that  worthy  gentleman,  Signor  Quixada.” 

“ I know  very  well  who  I am,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ and,  what’s  more,  I know  that  I 
may  not  only  be  the  persons  I have  named,  but  also  the  twelve  peers  of  France  ; nay,  and  the  nine 
worthies  all  in  one,  since  my  achievements  will  out-rival  not  only  the  famous  exploits  which  made 
any  of  them  singly  illustrious,  but  all  their  mighty  deeds  accumulated  together.” 

Thus  discoursing,  they  at  last  got  near  their  village  about  sunset ; but  the  countryman  stayed  at 
some  distance  till  it  was  dark,  that  the  distressed  gentleman  might  not  be  seen  so  scurvily  mounted, 
and  then  he  led  him  home  to  his  own  house,  which  he  found  in  great  confusion.  The  curate  and 
the  barber  of  the  village,  both  of  them  Don  Quixote’s  intimate  acquaintances,  happened  to  be  there 
at  that  juncture,  as  also  the  housekeeper,  who  was  arguing  with  them. 

“ What  do  you  think,  pray,  good  Doctor  Perez  ? ” said  she  (for  this  was  the  curate’s  name) ; 
“ what  do  you  think  of  my  master’s  mischance  ? Neither  he,  nor  his  horse,  nor  his  target,  lance,  nor 
armour  have  been  seen  these  six  days.  What  shall  I do  ? wretch  that  I am  ! I dare  lay  my  life, 
and  it  is  as  sure  as  I am  a living  creature,  that  those  cursed  books  of  errantry  which  he  used  to  be 
always  poring  over  have  set  him  beside  his  senses  ; for  now  I remember  I have  heard  him  often 
mutter  to  himself  that  he  had  a mind  to  turn  knight-errant,  and  jaunt  up  and  down  the  world  to 
find  out  adventures.  Out  upon  all  such  books,  that  have  thus  cracked  the  best  head-piece  in  all 
La  Mancha ! ” 

His  niece  said  as  much,  addressing  herself  to  the  barber.  “ You  must  know.  Master  Nicholas,” 
quoth  she  (for  this  was  his  name),  ‘ that  many  times  my  uncle  would  read  you  those  unconscionable 
books  of  disventures  for  eight-and-forty  hours  together.  Then  away  he  would  throw  you  his  book, 
and  drawing  his  sword,  he  would  fall  a-fencing  against  the  walls,  and  when  he  had  tired  himself 
with  cutting  and  slashing,  he  would  cry  he  had  killed  four  giants  as  big  as  any  steeples,  and  the 
sweat  which  he  put  himself  into  he  would  say  was  the  blood  of  the  wounds  he  had  received  in  the 
fight ; then  would  he  swallow  you  a huge  jug  of  cold  water,  and  presently  he  would  be  as  quiet  and 
as  well  as  ever  he  was  in  his  life ; and  he  said  that  this  same  water  was  a sort  of  precious  drink, 
brought  him  by  the  sage  Esquife,  a great  magician,  and  his  special  friend.  Now,  it  is  I who  am 
the  cause  of  all  this  mischief,  for  not  giving  you  timely  notice  of  my  uncle’s  raving,  that  you  might 
have  put  a stop  to  it  ere  it  was  too  late,  and  have  burnt  all  these  excommunicated  books,  for  there 
are  I do  not  know  how  many  of  them  that  deserve  to  be  burned  as  those  of  the  rankest  heretics.” 

“ I am  of  your  mind,”  said  the  curate  ; “ and  verily,  to-morrow  shall  not  pass  over  before  I have 
fairly  brought  them  to  a trial,  and  condemned  them  to  the  flames,  that  they  may  not  minister 
occasion  to  such  as  would  read  them,  to  be  perverted  after  the  example  of  my  good  friend." 

The  countryman,  who,  with  Don  Quixote,  stood  without,  listening  to  all  this  discourse,  now 
perfectly  understood  by  this  the  cause  of  his  neighbour's  disorder  ; and,  therefore,  without  any  more 
ado,  he  called  out  aloud  — " Here,  house  ! open  the  gates  there,  for  the  Lord  Baldwin  and  the 


He  led  them  all  towards  the  village,  and  trudged  a-foot  himself,  very  pensive.”—/.  28. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


31 


Lord  Marquis  of  Mantua,  who  is  coming  sadly  wounded,  and  for  the  Moorish  Lord  Abindaraez, 
whom  the  valorous  Don  Rodrigo  de  Narvaez,  Alcayde  of  Antequera,  brings  prisoner.” 

At  which  words  they  all  got  out  of  doors ; and  the  one  finding  it  to  be  her  uncle,  and  the  other 
to  be  her  master,  and  the  rest  their  friend,  who  had  not  yet  alighted  from  the  ass,  because,  indeed, 
he  was  not  able,  they  all  ran  to  embrace  him  ; to  whom  Don  Quixote— 

“ Forbear  ! ” said  he,  “ for  I am  sorely  hurt,  by  reason  that  my  horse  failed  me  ; carry  me  to 
bed,  and,  if  it  be  possible,  let  the  enchantress  Urganda  be  sent  for  to  cure  my  wounds.” 

“ Now,  in  the  name  of  mischief!”  quoth  the  housekeeper,  “see  whether  I did  not  guess  right, 
on  which  foot  my  master  halted.  Come,  get  you  to  bed,  I beseech  you,  and  my  life  for  yours,  we 
will  take  care  to  cure  you  without  sending  for  that  same  Urganda.  A hearty  curse,  and  the  curse 
of  curses — I say  it  again  and  again  a hundred  times— light  upon  those  books  of  chivalry  that  have 
put  you  in  this  pickle  ! ” 

Thereupon  they  carried  him  to  his  bed,  and  searched  for  his  wounds,  but  could  find  none  ; and 
then  he  told  them  he  was  only  bruised,  having  had  a dreadful  fall  from  his  horse  Rozinante,  while 
he  was  fighting  ten  giants,  the  most  outrageous  and  audacious  that  ever  could  be  found  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth. 

“ How ! ” cried  the  curate  ; “ have  we  giants,  too,  in  the  dance  ? Nay,  then,  by  the  holy  sign 
of  the  cross,  I will  burn  them  all  by  to-morrow  night ! ” 

Then  did  they  ask  the  Don  a thousand  questions,  but  to  every  one  he  made  no  other  answer 
but  that  they  should  give  him  something  to  eat,  and  then  leave  him  to  his  repose — a thing  which 
was  to  him  of  the  greatest  importance.  They  complied  with  his  desires,  and  then  the  curate 
informed  himself  at  large  in  what  condition  the  countryman  had  found  him  ; and  having  had  a full 
account  of  every  particular,  as  also  of  the  knight’s  extravagant  talk,  both  when  the  fellow  found 
him  and  as  he  brought  him  home,  this  increased  the  curate’s  desire  of  effecting  what  he  had 
resolved  to  do  the  next  morning;  at  which  time  he  called  upon  his  friend  Master  Nicholas,  the  barber, 
and  went  with  him  to  Don  Quixote’s  house. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

OF  THE  PLEASANT  AND  CURIOUS  SCRUTINY  WHICH  THE  CURATE  AND  THE  BARBER  MADE  OF  THE 

LIBRARY  OF  OUR  INGENIOUS  GENTLEMAN. 

THE  knight  was  yet  asleep,  when  the  curate  came,  attended  by  the  barber,  and  desired  his 
niece  to  let  him  have  the  key  of  the  room  where  her  uncle  kept  his  books,  the  authors  of 
his  woes.  She  readily  consented,  and  so  in  they  went,  and  the  housekeeper  with  them.  There 
they  found  above  a hundred  large  volumes,  neatly  bound,  and  a good  number  of  small  ones.  As 
soon  as  the  housekeeper  had  spied  them  out,  she  ran  out  of  the  study,  and  returned  immediately 
with  a holy-water  pot  and  a bunch  of  hyssop. 

“Here,  doctor,”  cried  she,  “pray  sprinkle  every  creek  and  corner  in  the  room,  lest  there 
should  lurk  in  it  some  one  of  the  many  sorcerers  these  books  swarm  with,  who  might  chance  to 
bewitch  us,  in  revenge  for  what  we  intend  to  do,  in  banishing  them  out  of  the  world.” 

The  curate  could  not  forbear  smiling  at  the  good  woman’s  simplicity,  and  desired  the  barber  to 
reach  him  the  books  one  by  one,  that  he  might  peruse  the  title-pages,  for  perhaps  he  might  find 
some  among  them  that  might  not  deserve  to  be  committed  to  the  flames. 

“ Oh,  by  no  means,”  cried  the  niece ; “ spare  none  of  them  ; they  all  help,  somehow  or  other, 
to  crack  my  uncle’s  brain.  I fancy  we  had  best  throw  them  all  out  of  the  window  into  the  yard,  and 
lay  them  together  in  a heap,  and  then  set  them  o’  fire  ; or  else  carry  them  into  the  back  yard,  and 
there  make  a pile  of  them  and  burn  them,  and  so  the  smoke  will  offend  nobody.” 

The  housekeeper  joined  with  her,  so  eagerly  bent  were  both  upon  the  destruction  of  those  poor 
innocents ; but  the  curate  would  not  condescend  to  those  irregular  proceedings,  and  resolved  first  to 
read  at  least  the  title-page  of  every  book. 

I he  first  that  Master  Nicholas  put  into  his  hands  was  “ Amadis  de  Gaul,”  in  four  volumes. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


33 


“ There  seems  to  be  some  mystery  in  this  book’s  being  the  first  taken  down,”  cried  the  curate, 
as  soon  as  he  had  looked  upon  it ; “ for  I have  heard  it  is  the  first  book  of  knight-errantry  that  ever 
was  printed  in  Spain,  and  the  model  of  all  the  rest ; and  therefore  I am  of  opinion  that,  as  the 
first  teacher  and  author  of  so  pernicious  a sect,  it  ought  to  be  condemned  to  the  fire  without  mercy.” 

“ 1 beg  a reprieve  for  him,”  cried  the  barber ; “ for  I have  been  told  ’tis  the  best  book  that  has 
been  written  in  that  kind  ; and  therefore,  as  the  only  good  thing  of  that  sort,  it  may  deserve  a 
pardon.” 

“Well,  then,”  replied  the  curate,  “for  this  time,  let  him  have  it.  Let’s  see  that  other,  which 
lies  next  to  him.” 

“These,”  said  the  barber,  “are  the  exploits  of  Esplandian,  the  lawful -begotten  son  of  Amadis 
de  Gaul.” 

“ Verily,”  said  the  curate,  “ the  father’s  goodness  shall  not  excuse  the  want  of  it  in  the  son. 
Here,  good  mistress  housekeeper,  open  that  window,  and  throw  it  into  the  yard,  and  let  it  serve  as 
a foundation  to  that  pile  we  are  to  set  a-blazing  presently.” 

She  was  not  slack  in  her  obedience,  and  thus  poor  Don  Esplandian  was  sent  headlong  into  the 
yard,  there  patiently  to  wait  the  time  of  his  fiery  trial. 

“To  the  next,”  cried  the  curate. 

“ This,”  said  the  barber,  “is  Amadis  of  Greece;  and  I’m  of  opinion  that  all  those  that  stand 
on  this  side  are  of  the  same  family.” 

“Then  let  them  all  be  sent  packing  into  the  yard,”  replied  the  curate ; “for  rather  than  lose  the 
pleasure  of  burning  Queen  Pintiquiniestra,  and  the  Shepherd  Darinel  with  his  eclogues,  and  the 
confounded  unintelligible  discourses  of  the  author,  I think  I should  burn  my  own  father  along  'With 
them,  if  I met  him  in  the  disguise  of  a knight-errant.”  ! 

“ I am  of  your  mind,”  cried  the  barber. 

“ And  I,  too,”  said  the  niece. 

“ Nay,  then,”  quoth  the  housekeeper,  “let  them  come,  and  down  with  them  all  into  the  yard.” 

They  were  delivered  to  her  accordingly,  and  many  they  were:  so  that,  to  save  herself  the 
labour  of  carrying  them  down-stairs,  she  fairly  sent  them  flying  out  at  the  window. 

“ What  over-grown  piece  of  lumber  have  we  here  ? ” cried  the  curate. 

“ Olivante  de  Laura,”  returned  the  barber.  “ The  same  author  wrote  the  ‘ Garden'  ’off 
Flowers,’  and,  to  deal  ingenuously  with  you,  I cannot  tell  which  of  the  two  books  has  most  truth  in 
it ; or,  to  speak  more  properly,  less  lies ; but  this  I know  for  certain,  that  he  shall  march  into  the 
back  yard,  like  a nonsensical,  arrogant  blockhead,  as  he  is.” 

“ The  next,”  cried  the  barber,  “ is  Florismart  of  Hyrcania.” 

“ How!  my  Lord  Florismart,  is  he  here  ?”  replied  the  curate.  “ Nay,  then,  truly,  he  shall 
e’en  follow  the  rest  to  the  yard,  in  spite  of  his  wonderful  birth  and  incredible  adventures,  for  his 
rough,  dull,  and  insipid  style  deserves  no  better  usage.  Come,  toss  him  into  the  yard,  and  this 
other  too,  good  mistress.” 

5 


34 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ With  all  my  heart,”  quoth  the  housekeeper,  and  straight  she  was  as  good  as  her  word. 

“ Here’s  the  noble  Don  Platir,”  cried  the  barber. 

“ ’Tis  an  old  book,”  replied  the  curate ; “and  I can  think  of  nothing  in  him  that  deserves  a 
grain  of  pity  : away  with  him,  without  any  more  words ! ” and  down  he  went  accordingly. 

Another  book  was  opened,  and  it  proved  to  be  the  “ Knight  of  the  Cross.” 

“ The  holy  title,”  cried  the  curate,  “ might  in  some  measure  atone  for  the  badness  of  the  book ; 
but  then,  as  the  saying  is,  ‘ The  devil  lurks  behind  the  cross.’  To  the  flames  with  him  ! ” 

Then  the  barber,  taking  down  another  book,  cried,  “ Here’s  the  * Mirror  of  Knighthood.’  ” 

“ Oh  ! I have  the  honour  to  know  him,”  replied  the  curate.  “ There  you  will  find  the  Lord 
Rinaldo  of  Montalban,  with  his  friends  and  companions,  all  of  them  greater  thieves  than  Cacus, 
together  with  the  Twelve  Peers  of  France,  and  that  faithful  historian,  Turpin.  Truly,  I must  needs 
say,  I am  only  for  condemning  them  to  perpetual  banishment,  at  least,  because  their  story  contains 
something  of  the  famous  Boyardo’s  invention,  out  of  which  the  Christian  poet  Ariosto  also  spun  his 
web  ; yet,  if  I happen  to  meet  with  him  in  this  bad  company,  and  speaking  in  any  other  language 
than  his  own,  I’ll  show  him  no  manner  of  favour;  but  if  he  talks  in  his  own  native  tongue,  I’ll  treat 
him  with  all  the  respect  imaginable.” 

“ I have  him  at  home  in  Italian,”  said  the  barber,  “but  I cannot  understand  him.” 

“ Neither  is  it  any  great  matter  whether  you  do  or  not,”  replied  the  curate;  “and  I could 
willingly  have  excused  the  good  captain  who  translated  it  that  trouble  of  attempting  to  make  him 
speak  Spanish,  for  he  has  deprived  him  of  a great  deal  of  his  primitive  graces — a misfortune 
incident  to  all  those  who  presume  to  translate  verses,  since  their  utmost  wit  and  industry  can  never 
enable  them  to  preserve  the  native  beauties  and  genius  that  shine  in  the  original.  For  this  reason 
I am  for  having  not  only  this  book,  but  likewise  all  those  which  we  shall  find  here,  treating  of 
F'rench  affairs,  laid  up  and  deposited  in  some  dry  vault,  till  we  have  maturely  determined  what 
ought  to  be  done  with  them ; yet  give  me  leave  to  except  one  Bernardo  del  Carpio,  that  must  be 
somewhere  here  among  the  rest,  and  another  called  Roncesvalles ; for  whenever  I meet  with 
them  I will  certainly  deliver  them  up  into  the  hands  of  the  housekeeper,  who  shall  toss  them 
into  the  fire.” 

The  barber  gave  his  approbation  to  every  particular,  well  knowing  that  the  curate  was  so 
good  a Christian,  and  so  great  a lover  of  truth,  that  he  would  not  have  uttered  a falsity  for  all 
the  world. 

Then  opening  another  volume,  he  found  it  to  be  Palmerin  de  Oliva,  and  the  next  to  that 
Palmerin  of  England. 

“Ha!  have  I found  you?”  cried  the  curate.  “Here,  take  that  Oliva,  let  him  be  torn  to 
pieces,  then  burnt,  and  his  ashes  scattered  in  the  air;  but  let  Palmerin  of  England  be  preserved  as 
a singular  relic  of  antiquity ; and  let  such  a costly  box  be  made  for  him  as  Alexander  found  among 
the  spoils  of  Darius,  which  he  devoted  to  enclose  Homer’s  works  ; for  I must  tell  you,  neighbour, 
that  book  deserves  particular  respect  for  two  things — first,  for  its  own  excellences ; and,  secondly, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


35 

for  the  sake  of  its  author,  who  is  said  to  have  been  a learned  king  of  Portugal  : then  all  the  adven- 
tures of  the  castle  of  Miraguarda  are  well  and  artfully  managed,  the  dialogue  very  courtly  and  clear, 
and  the  decorum  strictly  observed  in  equal  character,  with  equal  propriety  and  judgment.  There- 
fore, Master  Nicholas,”  continued  he,  “with  submission  to  your  better  advice,  this  and  Amadis  de 
Gaul  shall  be  exempted  from  the  fire ; and  let  all  the  rest  be  condemned  without  any  further  inquiry 
or  examination.” 

“ By  no  means,  I beseech  you,”  returned  the  barber ; “ for  this  which  I have  in  my  hands  is  the 
famous  Don  Bellianis.” 

“ Truly,”  cried  the  curate,  “ he,  with  his  second,  third,  and  fourth  parts,  had  need  of  a dose  of 
rhubarb  to  purge  his  excessive  choler ; besides,  his  Castle  of  Fame  should  be  demolished,  and  a 
heap  of  other  rubbish  removed ; in  order  to  which  I give  my  vote  to  grant  them  the  benefit  of  a 
reprieve ; and  as  they  show  signs  of  amendment,  so  shall  mercy  or  justice  be  used  towards  them : 
in  the  meantime,  neighbour,  take  them  into  custody,  and  keep  them  safe  at  home ; but  let  none  be 
permitted  to  converse  with  them.” 

“ Content,”  cried  the  barber ; and  to  save  himself  the  labour  of  looking  on  any  more  books  of 
that  kind,  he  bid  the  housekeeper  take  all  the  great  volumes,  and  throw  them  into  the  yard.  This 
was  not  spoken  to  one  stupid  or  deaf,  but  to  one  who  had  a greater  mind  to  be  burning  them  than 
weaving  the  finest  and  largest  web  : so  that,  laying  hold  of  no  less  than  eight  volumes  at  once,  she 
presently  made  them  leap  towards  the  place  of  execution ; but  as  she  went  too  eagerly  to  work, 
taking  more  books  than  she  could  conveniently  carry,  she  happened  to  drop  one  at  the  barber’s  feet, 
which  he  took  up  out  of  curiosity  to  see  what  it  was,  and  found  it  to  be  the  History  of  the  famous 
Knight  Tirante  the  White. 

“ Good-lack-a-day  ! ” cried  the  curate  ; “ is  Tirante  the  White  here  ? oh  ! pray,  good  neighbour, 
give  it  me  by  all  means,  for  I promise  myself  to  find  in  it  a treasure  of  delight,  and  a mine  of 
recreation.  There  we  have  that  valorous  knight,  Don  Kyrie-Eleison  of  Montalban,  with  his  brother 
Thomas  of  Montalban,  and  the  knight  Fonseca;  the  combat  between  the  valorous  Detriante  and 
Alano ; the  dainty  and  witty  conceits  of  the  damsel  Plazerdemivida,  with  the  loves  and  guiles  of  the 
widow  Reposada ; together  with  the  lady  empress,  that  was  in  love  with  Hippolito,  her  gentleman- 
usher.  I vow  and  protest  to  you,  neighbour,”  continued  he,  “ that  in  its  way  there  is  not  a better 
book  in  the  world  : why,  here  you  have  knights  that  eat  and  drink,  sleep,  and  die  natural  deaths  in 
their  beds,  nay,  and  make  their  last  wills  and  testaments ; with  a world  of  other  things,  of  which  all 
the  rest  of  these  sort  of  books  don’t  say  one  syllable.  Yet,  after  all,  I must  tell  you,  that  , for 
wilfully  taking  the  pains  to  write  so  many  foolish  things,  the  worthy  author  fairly  deserves  to  be 
sent  to  the  galleys  for  all  the  days  of  his  life.  Take  it  home  with  you  and  read  it,  and  then  tell 
me  whether  I have  told  you  the  truth  or  no.” 

“ I believe  you,”  replied  the  barber ; “ but  what  shall  we  do  with  all  these  smaller  books  that 
are  left  ? ” 

“ Certainly,”  replied  the  curate,  “ these  cannot  be  books  of  knight-errantry  ; they  are  too  small ; 


36 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


you’ll  find  they  are  only  poets.”  And  so  opening  one,  it  happened  to  be  the  Diana  of  Monte- 
mayor ; which  made  him  say  (believing  all  the  rest  to  be  of  that  stamp) — 

“ These  do  not  deserve  to  be  punished  like  the  others,  for  they  neither  have  done,  nor  can  do, 
that  mischief  which  those  stories  of  chivalry  have  done,  being  generally  ingenious  books,  that  can 
do  nobody  any  prejudice.” 

“ Oh ! good  sir,”  cried  the  niece ; “ burn  them  with  the  rest,  I beseech  you  ; for  should  my 
uncle  get  cured  of  his  knight-errant  frenzy,  and  betake  himself  to  the  reading  of  these  books,  we 
should  have  him  turn  shepherd,  and  so  wander  through  the  woods  and  fields ; nay,  and  what  would 
be  worse  yet,  turn  poet,  which  they  say  is  a catching  and  an  incurable  disease.” 

“ The  gentlewoman  is  in  the  right,”  said  the  curate,  “ and  it  will  not  be  amiss  to  remove  that 
stumbling-block  out  of  our  friend’s  way ; and  since  we  began  with  the  Diana  of  Montemayor,  I am 
of  opinion  we  ought  not  to  burn  it,  but  only  take  out  that  part  of  it  which  treats  of  the  magician 
Felicia,  and  the  enchanted  water,  as  also  all  the  longer  poems;  and  let  the  work  escape  with  its 
prose,  and  the  honour  of  being  the  first  of  that  kind.” 

“ Here’s  another  Diana,”  quoth  the  barber;  “the  second  of  that  name,  by  Salmantino  (of  Sala- 
manca) ; nay,  and  a third,  too,  by  Gil  Polo.” 

**  Pray,”  said  the  curate,  “ let  Salmantino  increase  the  number  of  the  criminals  in  the  yard  ; but 
as  for  that  by  Gil  Polo,  preserve  it  as  charily  as  if  Apollo  himself  had  wrote  it ; and  go  on  as  fast  as 
you  can,  I beseech  you,  good  neighbour,  for  it  grows  late.” 

“ Here,”  quoth  the  barber.  “ I’ve  a book  called  the  ‘Ten  Books  of  the  Fortunes  of  Love,’  by 
Anthony  de  Lofraco,  a Sardinian  poet.” 

“ Now,  by  my  holy  orders,”  cried  the  curate,  “ I do  not  think,  since  Apollo  was  Apollo,  the 
muses  muses,  and  the  poets  poets,  there  ever  was  a more  comical,  more  whimsical  book ! Of  all 
the  works  of  the  kind  commend  me  to  this,  for  in  its  way  ’tis  certainly  the  best  and  most  singular 
that  ever  was  published,  and  he  that  never  read  it  may  safely  think  he  never  in  his  life  read  any- 
thing that  was  pleasant.  Give  it  me,  neighbour,”  continued  he,  “ for  I am  more  glad  to  have  found 
it  than  if  any  one  had  given  me  a cassock  of  the  best  Florence  serge.”  With  that  he  laid  it  aside 
with  extraordinary  satisfaction,  and  the  barber  went  on  ; — 

“ These  that  follow,”  cried  he,  “ are  the  ‘ Shepherd  of  Iberia,’  the  ‘ Nymphs  of  Enares,’  and  the 
‘Cure  of  Jealousy.’” 

“Take  them,  jailor,”  quoth  the  curate,  “and  never  ask  me  why,  or  we  shall  ne’er  have 
done.”  • 

“ The  next,”  said  the  barber,  “is  the  Shepherd  of  Filida.” 

“ He’s  no  shepherd,”  returned  the  curate,  “but  a very  discreet  courtier;  keep  him  as  a precious 

jewel.” 

“ Here’s  a bigger,”  cried  the  barber,  “ called  ‘ The  Treasure  of  Divers  Poems.’  ” 

“ Had  there  been  fewer  of  them,”  said  the  curate,  “they  would  have  been  more  esteemed. 
Tis  fit  the  book  should  be  pruned  and  cleared  of  several  trifles  that  disgrace  the  rest : keep 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


37 

it,  however,  because  the  author  is  my  friend,  and  for  the  sake  of  his  other  more  heroic  and  lofty 
productions  ” 

“ Here’s  a book  of  songs  by  Lopez  Maldonado,”  cried  the  barber. 

“ He’s  also  my  particular  friend,”  said  the  curate ; “ his  verses  are  very  well  liked  when  he 
reads  them  himself;  and  his  voice  is  so  excellent,  that  they  charm  us  whenever  he  sings  them.  He 
seems  indeed  to  be  somewhat  too  long  in  his  eclogues ; but  can  we  ever  have  too  much  of  a good 
thing  ? Let  him  be  preserved  among  the  best.  What’s  the  next  book  ? ” 

“ The  Galatea  of  Miguel  de  Cervantes,”  replied  the  barber. 

“That  Cervantes  has  been  my  intimate  acquaintance  these  many  years,”  cried  the  curate;  “and 
1 know  he  has  been  more  conversant  with  misfortunes  than  with  poetry.  His  book,  indeed,  has  I 
don’t  know  what  that  looks  like  a good  design  ; he  aims  at  something,  but  concludes  nothing  : 
therefore  we  must  stay  for  the  second  part,  which  he  has  promised  us  ; perhaps  he  may  make  us 
amends,  and  obtain  a full  pardon,  which  is  denied  him  for  the  present ; till  that  time,  keep  him  close 
prisoner  at  your  house.” 

“ I will,”  quoth  the  barber : “ but,  see,  I have  here  three  more  for  you — the  Araucana  of  Don 
Alonso  de  Ercilla  ; the  Austriada  of  Juan.  Ruffo,  a magistrate  of  Cordova;  and  the  Monserrato  of 
Christopher  de  Virves,  a Valentian  poet.” 

“ These,”  cried  the  curate,  “ are  the  best  heroic  poems  we  have  in  Spanish,  and  may  vie  with 
the  most  celebrated  of  Italy  : reserve  them  as  the  most  valuable  performance  which  Spain  has  to 
boast  of  in  poetry.” 

At  last  the  curate  grew  so  tired  with  prying  into  so  many  volumes,  that  he  ordered  all  the  rest 
to  be  burnt  at  a venture.  But  the  barber  showed  him  one  which  he  had  opened  by  chance  ere  the 
dreadful  sentence  was  past. 

“Truly,”  said  the  curate,  who  saw  by  the  title  it  was  the  “ Tears  of  Angelica,”  “ I should  have 
wept  myself,  had  I caused  such  a book  to  share  the  condemnation  of  the  rest ; for  the  author  was 
not  only  one  of  the  best  poets  in  Spain,  but  in  the  whole  world,  and  translated  some  of  Ovid's  fables 
with  extraordinary  success.” 


CHAPTER  VII. 

DON  QUIXOTE’S  SECOND  SALLY  IN  QUEST  OF  ADVENTURES. 

WHILE  they  were  thus  employed,  Don  Quixote  in  a raving  fit  began  to  talk  aloud  to 
himself.  Here,  here,  valorous  knights  1 ” cried  he,  “ now’s  the  t.me  that  you  must  exert 
the  strength  of  your  mighty  arms  ; for,  lo  1 the  courtiers  bear  away  the  honour  of  the  tournament. 

This  amazing  outcry  called  away  the  inquisitors  from  any  further  exam, nation  o t ie  ■ “try , 
and  therefore  the  housekeeper  and  the  niece  being  left  to  their  own  discretion.it  is  hought  th 
Carolea  and  Leo  of  Spain,  with  the  Deeds  of  the  Emperor,  written  by  Don  Lewis  d Avila  which 
be  sure  were  part  of  the  collection,  were  committed  to  the  flames  unseen  and  unheard  without  any 
legal  trial;  a fate  which  perhaps  they  might  have  escaped,  had  the  curate  been  tiere  to 

weighed  what  might  have  been  urged  in  their  defence.  , 

S When  they  came  into  Don  Quixote’s  chamber,  they  found  him  risen  out  o,  h,s  bed  as  ma 

ever  he  was,  tearing  his  throat,  and  making  a heavy  bustle,  laying  about  him  with  h,s  sword,  back- 
stroke  and  fore-stroke,  as  broad  awake  as  if  he  had  never  slept.  They  ran  in  upon  him,  caug 
him  in  their  arms,  and  carried  him  to  bed  again  by  main  force ; where,  after  he  was  somewhat  quiet 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


39 


and  settled,  turning  himself  to  the  curate,  “ Certainly,”  cried  he,  “my  Lord  Archbishop  Turpin,  ’tis 
a great  dishonour  to  us,  who  are  called  the  twelve  peers,  to  suffer  the  knights  of  the  court  to  bear 
away  the  honour  of  the  tournament  without  any  further  opposition,  after  we,  the  knight  adventurers, 
had  carried  it  for  three  days  before.” 

“ Be  pacified,  my  good  friend,”  replied  the  curate;  “ Fortune  may  have  yet  a better  success  in 
reserve  for  you,  and  they  who  lose  to-day  may  win  to-morrow  : at  present  think  on  your  health,  for 
doubtless  you  must  needs  be  now  extremely  tired,  if  not  very  much  wounded.” 

“Wounded!”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “no;  but  as  for  being  bruised,  I will  not  deny  it,  for  that 
base-born  knight,  Don  Orlando,  has  battered  all  my  limbs  with  the  trunk  of  an  oak,  out  of  mere 
envy,  because  he  sees  that  I only  dare  rival  his  exploits  : but  may  I no  more  be  called  Rinaldo  of 
Montalban,  if,  in  spite  of  his  enchantments,  I do  not  make  him  severely  pay  for  this  as  soon  as  I can 
leave  my  bed  ; and  therefore  let  my  dinner  be  brought  in,  for  ’tis  what  I want  most  at  this  juncture, 
and  then  let  me  alone  to  revenge  this  abuse.” 

Accordingly  they  brought  him  some  victuals,  which  when  he  had  eaten  he  fell  asleep  again,  and 
they  left  him,  all  of  them  strangely  amazed  at  his  uncommon  madness.  That  night  the  house- 
keeper burnt  all  the  books,  not  only  those  in  the  yard,  but  all  those  that  were  in  the  house ; and 
several  suffered  in  the  general  calamity,  that  deserved  to  have  been  treasured  up  in  everlasting 
archives,  had  not  their  fate  and  the  remissness  of  the  inquisitors  ordered  it  otherwise.  And  thus 
they  verified  the  proverb,  that  “ the  good  often  fare  the  worse  for  the  bad.” 

One  of  the  expedients  which  the  curate  and  the  barber  thought  themselves  of  in  order  to  their 
friend’s  recovery,  was  to  stop  up  the  door  of  the  room  where  his  books  lay,  that  he  might  not  find 
it,  nor  miss  them  when  he  rose ; for  they  hoped  the  effect  would  cease  when  they  had  taken  away 
the  cause  ; and  they  ordered,  that  if  he  inquired  about  it,  they  should  tell  him,  that  a certain 
enchanter  had  carried  away  study,  books  and  all. 

Two  days  after,  Don  Quixote  being  got  up,  the  first  thing  he  did  was  to  go  visit  his  darling 
books  ; and  as  he  could  not  find  the  study  in  the  place  where  he  had  left  it,  he  went  up  and  down, 
and  looked  for  it  in  every  room.  Sometimes  he  came  to  the  place  where  the  door  used  to  stand, 
and  then  stood  feeling  and  groping  about  a good  while,  then  cast  his  eyes,  and  stared  on  every  side, 
without  speaking  a word.  At  last,  after  a long  deliberation,  he  thought  fit  to  ask  his  housekeeper 
which  was  the  way  to  his  study. 

“ What  study,”  answered  the  woman,  according  to  her  instructions,  “ or  rather,  what  nothing  is 
it  you  look  for  ? Alas  ! here’s  neither  study  nor  books  in  the  house  now,  for  the  devil  is  run  away 
with  them  all.” 

“ No,  ’twas  not  the  devil,”  said  the  niece,  “but  a conjuror,  or  an  enchanter,  as  they  call  them, 
who,  since  you  went,  came  hither  one  night  mounted  on  a dragon  on  the  top  of  a cloud,  and  then 
alighting,  went  into  your  study,  where  what  he  did,  he  and  the  devil  best  can  tell,  for  a while  after 
he  flew  out  at  the  roof  of  the  house,  leaving  it  all  full  of  smoke  ; and  when  we  went  to  see  what  he 
had  done,  we  could  neither  find  the  books  nor  so  much  as  the  very  study ; only  the  housekeeper 


‘‘The  knight  made  him  so  many  fair  promises,  that  at  last  the  poor  silly  clown  consented  to  go  along  with  him  and  become  his  squire."' — p.  41. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


A I 

and  I very  well  remember,  that  when  the  old  thief  went  away,  he  cried  out  aloud,  that  out  of  a 
private  grudge  which  he  bore  in  his  mind  to  the  owner  of  those  books,  he  had  done  the  house  a 
mischief,  as  we  should  soon  perceive ; and  then  I think  he  called  himself  the  sage  Muniaton.” 

“ Not  Muniaton,  but  Freston,  you  should  have  said,”  cried  Don  Quixote. 

“Truly,”  quoth  the  niece,  “ I can’t  tell  whether  it  was  Freston  or  Friston,  but  sure  I am  that 
his  name  ended  with  a ton.” 

“ It  is  so,”  returned  Don  Quixote,  “ for  he  is  a famous  necromancer,  and  my  mortal  enemy,  and 
bears  me  a great  deal  of  malice ; for  seeing  by  his  art,  that  in  spite  of  all  his  spells,  in  process  of 
time  I shall  fight  and  vanquish  in  single  combat  a knight  whose  interests  he  espouses,  therefore  he 
endeavours  to  do  me  all  manner  of  mischief ; but  I dare  assure  him  that  he  strives  against  the 
stream,  nor  can  his  power  reverse  the  first  decrees  of  Fate.” 

“ Who  doubts  of  that  ? ” cried  the  niece  : “ but,  dear  uncle,  what  makes  you  run  yourself  into 
these  quarrels  ? had  not  you  better  stay  at  home,  and  live  in  peace  and  quietness,  than  go  rambling 
up  and  down  like  a vagabond,  and  seeking  for  better  bread  than  is  made  of  wheat,  without  once  so 
much  as  considering  that  many  go  to  seek  wool,  and  come  home  shorn  themselves  ? ” 

“ Oh,  good  niece,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ how  ill  thou  understandest  these  matters  ! know  that 
before  I will  suffer  myself  to  be  shorn,  I will  tear  and  pluck  off  the  beards  of  all  those  audacious 
mortals,  that  shall  attempt  to  profane  the  tip  of  one  single  hair  within  the  verge  of  these  mustachios.” 

To  this  neither  the  niece  nor  the  housekeeper  thought  fit  to  make  any  reply,  for  they  perceived 
the  knight  to  grow  angry. 

Full  fifteen  days  did  our  knight  remain  quietly  at  home,  without  betraying  the  least  sign  of  his 
desire  to  renew  his  rambling ; during  which  time  there  passed  a great  deal  of  pleasant  discourse 
between  him  and  his  two  friends,  the  curate  and  the  barber ; while  he  maintained  that  there  was 
nothing  the  world  stood  so  much  in  need  of  as  knights-errant,  wherefore  he  was  resolved  to  revive 
the  order : in  which  disputes  Mr.  Curate  sometimes  contradicted  him,  and  sometimes  submitted ; 
for  had  he  not  now  and  then  given  way  to  his  fancies,  there  would  have  been  no  conversing  with  him. 

In  the  meantime  Don  Quixote  earnestly  solicited  one  of  his  neighbours,  a country  labourer,  and 
a good  honest  fellow,  if  we  may  call  a poor  man  honest,  for  he  was  poor  indeed,  poor  in  purse,  and 
poor  in  brains ; and,  in  short,  the  knight  talked  so  long  to  him,  plied  him  with  so  many  arguments, 
and  made  him  so  many  fair  promises,  that  at  last  the  poor  silly  clown  consented  to  go  along  with 
him,  and  become  his  squire.  Among  other  inducements  to  entice  him  to  do  it  willingly,  Don 
Quixote  forgot  not  to  tell  him  that  it  was  likely  such  an  adventure  would  present  itself  as  might 
secure  him  the  conquest  of  some  island  in  the  time  that  he  might  be  picking  up  a straw  or  two,  and 
then  the  squire  might  promise  himself  to  be  made  governor  of  the  place.  Allured  with  these  large 
promises,  and  many  others,  Sancho  Panza  (for  that  was  the  name  of  the  fellow)  forsook  his  wife  and 
children,  to  be  his  neighbour’s  squire. 

This  done,  Don  Quixote  made  it  his  business  to  furnish  himself  with  money  ; to  which  purpose, 

selling  one  house,  mortgaging  another,  and  losing  by  all,  he  at  last  got  a pretty  good  sum  together. 

0 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


42 

He  also  borrowed  a target  of  a friend,  and  having  patched  up  his  head-piece  and  beaver  as  well  as 
he  could,  he  gave  his  squire  notice  of  the  day  and  hour  when  he  intended  to  set  out,  that  he  might 
also  furnish  himself  with  what  he  thought  necessary;  but,  above  all,  he  charged  him  to  provide  him- 
self with  a wallet ; which  Sancho  promised  to  do,  telling  him  he  would  also  take  his  ass  along  with 
him,  which,  being  a very  good  one,  might  be  a great  ease  to  him,  for  he  was  not  used  to  travel  much 
a-foot.  The  mentioning  of  the  ass  made  the  noble  knight  pause  a while  ; he  mused  and  pondered 
whether  he  had  ever  read  of  any  knight-errant  whose  squire  used  to  ride  upon  an  ass ; but  he  could 
not  remember  any  precedent  for  it : however,  he  gave  him  leave  at  last  to  bring  his  ass,  hoping  to 
mount  him  more  honourably  with  the  first  opportunity,  by  unhorsing  the  next  discourteous  knight 
he  should  meet.  He  also  furnished  himself  with  shirts,  and  as  many  other  necessaries  as  he  could 
conveniently  carry,  according  to  the  innkeeper’s  injunctions;  which  being  done,  Sancho  Panza, 
without  bidding  either  his  wife  or  children  good-bye,  and  Don  Quixote,  without  taking  any  more 
notice  of  his  housekeeper  or  of  his  niece,  stole  out  of  the  village  one  night,  nor  so  much  as  suspected 
by  anybody,  and  made  such  haste,  that  by  break  of  day  they  thought  themselves  out  of  reach, 
should  they  happen  to  be  pursued.  As  for  Sancho  Panza  he  rode  like  a patriarch,  with  his  canvas 
knapsack,  or  wallet,  and  his  leathern  bottle,  having  a huge  desire  to  see  himself  governor  of  the 
island  which  his  master  had  promised  him. 

Don  Quixote  happened  to  strike  into  the  same  road  which  he  took  the  tune  before,  through  the 
plain  of  Montiel,  over  which  he  travelled  with  less  inconvenience  than  when  he  went  alone,  by  reason 
it  was  yet  early  in  the  morning ; at  which  time  the  sunbeams  being  almost  parallel  to  the  surface  of 
the  earth,  and  not  directly  darted  down,  as  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  did  not  prove  so  offensive.  As 
they  jogged  on,  “ I beseech  your  worship,  Sir  Knight-errant,”  quoth  Sancho  to  his  master,  “ be  sure 
you  don’t  forget  what  you  promised  me  about  the  island  ; for  I daresay  I shall  makeshift  to  govern 

it,  let  it  be  never  so  big.” 

“ You  must  know,  friend  Sancho,"  replied  Don  Quixote,  “that  it  has  been  the  constant  practice 
of  knights-errant  in  former  ages,  to  make  their  squires  governors  of  the  islands  or  kingdoms  they 
conquered  : now  I am  not  only  resolved  to  keep  up  that  laudable  custom,  but  even  to  improve  it 
and  outdo  my  predecessors  in  generosity  ; for  whereas  sometimes,  or  rather  most  commonly,  other 
knights  delayed  rewarding  their  squires  till  they  were  grown  old,  and  worn  out  with  services,  bad 
days,  worse  nights,  and  all  manner  of  hard  duty,  and  then  put  them  off  with  some  title,  either  of 
count,  or  at  least  marquis  of  some  valley  or  province,  of  great  or  small  extent;  now,  if  thou  and  I 
do  but  live,  it  may  happen  that  before  we  have  passed  six  days  together,  1 may  conquer  some 
kingdom,  having  many  other  kingdoms  annexed  to  its  imperial  crown ; and  this  would  fall  out  most 
luckily  for  thee  ; for  then  would  I presently  crown  thee  king  of  one  of  them.  Nor  do  thou  imagine 
this  to  be  a mighty  matter;  for  so  strange  accidents  and  revolutions,  so  sudden  and  so  unforeseen, 
attend  the  profession  of  chivalry,  that  I might  easily  give  thee  a great  deal  more  than  I have 
promised.” 

“ Why,  should  this  come  to  pass,”  quoth  Sancho  Panza,  “and  1 be  made  a king  by  some  such 


It  was  yet  early  in  the  morning  at  which  time  the  sunbeams  did  not 


prove  so  offensive.’1 — p.  42. 


44 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


miracle  as  your  worship  mentions,  then,  my  good  woman,  Mary  Gutierez  would  be  at  least  a queen, 
and  my  children  infantas  and  princes,  an’t  like  your  worship ! ” 

“ Who  doubts  of  that  ? ” cried  Don  Quixote. 

“ I doubt  of  it,"  replied  Sancho  Panza ; “ for  I cannot  help  believing  that  though  it  should  rain 
kingdoms  down  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  not  one  of  them  would  sit  well  upon  Mary  Gutierez’s 
head  ; for  I must  needs  tell  you,  she’s  not  worth  two  farthings  to  make  a queen  of : no,  countess 
would  be  better  for  her,  an’t  please  you  ; and  that  too,  God  help  her,  will  be  as  much  as  she  can 
handsomely  manage.” 

“ Recommend  the  matter  to  Providence,”  returned  Don  Quixote;  “’twill  be  sure  to  give  what  is 
most  expedient  for  thee ; but  yet  disdain  to  entertain  inferior  thoughts,  and  be  not  tempted  to  accept 
less  than  the  dignity  of  a viceroy.” 

“No  more  I won’t,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho;  “especially  since  I have  so  rare  a master  as  your 
worship,  who  will  take  care  to  give  me  whatever  may  be  fit  for  me,  and  what  I may  be  able  to 
deal  with,” 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

OF  THE  GOOD  SUCCESS  WHICH  THE  VALOROUS  DON  QUIXOTE  HAD  IN  THE  MOST  TERRIFYING  AND  NEVER- 
TO-BE-IMAGINED  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  WINDMILLS,  WITH  OTHER  TRANSACTIONS  WORTHY  TO  BE 
TRANSMITTED  TO  POSTERITY. 

AS  they  were  thus  discoursing,  they  discovered  some  thirty  or  forty  windmills,  that  are  in  that 
plain  ; and  as  soon  as  the  knight  had  spied  them,  “ Fortune,”  cried  he,  “directs  our  affairs 
better  than  we  ourselves  could  have  wished  : look  yonder,  friend  Sancho ; there  are  at  least  thirty 
outrageous  giants,  whom  I intend  to  encounter ; and  having  deprived  them  of  life,  we  will  begin  to 
enrich  ourselves  with  their  spoils  : for  they  are  lawful  prize,  and  the  extirpation  of  that  cursed  brood 
will  be  an  acceptable  service  to  Heaven.” 

“ What  giants  ? ” quoth  Sancho  Panza. 

“ Those  whom  thou  seest  yonder,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ with  their  long,  extended  arms. 
Some  of  that  detested  race  have  arms  of  so  immense  a size,  that  sometimes  they  reach  two  leagues 
in  length.” 

“ Pray  look  better,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho  : “ those  things  yonder  are  no  giants,  but  windmills ; 
and  the  arms  you  fancy  are  their  sails,  which,  being  whirled  about  by  the  wind,  make  the  mill  go.” 
“’Tis  a sign,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “that  thou  art  but  little  acquainted  with  adventures!  I tell 

I * 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


47 


thee,  they  are  giants ; and  therefore,  if  thou  art  afraid,  go  aside  and  say  thy  prayers,  for  I am 
resolved  to  engage  in  a dreadful  unequal  combat  against  them  all.” 

This  said,  he  clapped  spurs  to  his  horse  Rozinante,  without  giving  ear  to  his  squire  Sancho,  who 
bawled  out  to  him,  and  assured  him  that  they  were  windmills,  and  no  giants.  But  he  was  so  fully 
possessed  with  a strong  conceit  of  the  contrary,  that  he  did  not  so  much  as  hear  his  squire’s  outcry, 
nor  was  he  sensible  of  what  they  were,  although  he  was  already  very  near  them  : far  from  that, 

“ Stand,  cowards  !”  cried  he,  as  loud  as  he  could  ; “ stand  your  ground,  ignoble  creatures,  and  fly  not 
basely  from  a single  knight,  who  dares  encounter  you  all.”  At  the  same  time  the  wind  rising,  the 
mill-sails  began  to  move,  which  when  Don  Quixote  spied,  “Base  miscreants!”  cried  he,  “though 
you  move  more  arms  than  the  giant  Briareus,  you  shall  pay  for  your  arrogance.” 

He  most  devoutly  recommended  himself  to  his  Lady  Dulcinea,  imploring  her  assistance  in  this 
perilous  adventure  ; and  so  covering  himself  with  his  shield,  and  couching  his  lance,  he  rushed  with 
Rozinante’s  utmost  speed  upon  the  first  windmill  he  could  come  at,  and  running  his  lance  into  the 
sail,  the  wind  whirled  it  about  with  such  swiftness,  that  the  rapidity  of  the  motion  presently  broke 
the  lance  into  shivers,  and  hurled  away  both  knight  and  horse  along  with  it,  till  down  he  fell,  rolling 
a good  way  off  in  the  field.  Sancho  Panza  ran  as  fast  as  his  ass  could  drive  to  help  his  master, 
whom  he  found  lying,  and  not  able  to  stir,  such  a blow  he  and  Rozinante  had  received.  “ Mercy 
o’me  ! ” cried  Sancho,  “ did  not  I give  your  worship  fair  warning  ? did  not  I tell  you  they  were 
windmills,  and  that  nobody  could  think  otherwise,  unless  he  had  also  windmills  in  his  head  ? ” 

“ Peace,  friend  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote  : “ there  is  nothing  so  subject  to  the  inconstancy 
of  fortune  as  war.  I am  verily  persuaded,  that  cursed  necromancer  Freston,  who  carried  away  my 
study  and  my  books,  has  transformed  these  giants  into  windmills,  to  deprive  me  of  the  honour  of  v 
the  victory  ; such  is  his  inveterate  malice  against  me  : but  in  the  end,  all  his  pernicious  wiles  and 
stratagems  shall  prove  ineffectual  against  the  prevailing  edge  of  my  sword.” 

“ Amen,  say  I,”  replied  Sancho.  And  so  heaving  him  up  again  upon  his  legs,  once  more  the 
knight  mounted  poor  Rozinante,  that  was  half  shoulder-slipped  with  his  fall. 

This  adventure  was  the  subject  of  their  discourse,  as  they  made  the  best  of  their  way  towards 
the  pass  of  Lapice ; for  Don  Quixote  took  that  road,  believing  he  could  not  miss  of  adventures  in 
one  so  mightily  frequented.  However,  the  loss  of  his  lance  was  no  small  affliction  to  him  ; and  as 
he  was  making  his  complaint  about  it  to  his  squire,  “ I have  read,”  said  he,  “ friend  Sancho,  that  a 
certain  Spanish  knight,  whose  name  was  Diego  Perez  de  Vargas,  having  broken  his  sword  in  the 
heat  of  an  engagement,  pulled  up  by  the  roots  a huge  oak-tree,  or  at  least  tore  down  a massy 
branch,  and  did  such  wonderful  execution,  crushing  and  grinding  so  many  Moors  with  it  that  day, 
that  he  won  himself  and  his  posterity  the  sirname  of  The  Pounder,  or  Bruiser.  I tell  thee  this, 
because  I intend  to  tear  up  the  next  oak,  or  holm-tree,  we  meet ; with  the  trunk  whereof  I hope  to 
perform  such  wondrous  deeds,  that  thou  wilt  esteem  thyself  particularly  happy  in  having  had  the 
honour  to  behold  them,  and  been  the  ocular  witness  of  achievements  which  posterity  will  scarce  be  . 
able  to  believe.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


49 


“ Heaven  grant  you  may!”  cried  Sancho  : “ I believe  it  all,  because  your  worship  says  it.  But, 
an’t  please  you,  sit  a little  more  upright  in  your  saddle  ; you  ride  sideling  methinks ; but  that,  I 
suppose,  proceeds  from  your  being  bruised  by  the  fall.” 

“It  does  so,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “and  if  I do  not  complain  of  the  pain,  it  is  because  a 
knight-errant  must  never  complain  of  his  wounds,  though  his  bowels  were  dropping  out  through 
them.” 

“Then  I have  no  more  to  say,”  quoth  Sancho;  “ and  yet  Heaven  knows  my  heart,  I should 
be  glad  to  hear  your  worship  lament  a little  now  and  then  when  something  ails  you  : for  my  part,  I 
shall  not  fail  to  bemoan  myself  when  I suffer  the  smallest  pain,  unless  indeed  it  can  be  proved  that 
the  rule  of  not  complaining  extends  to  the  squires  as  well  as  the  knights.” 

Don  Quixote  could  not  forbear  smiling  at  the  simplicity  of  his  squire ; and  told  him  he  gave 
him  leave  to  complain  not  only  when  he  pleased,  but  as  much  as  he  pleased,  whether  he  had  any 
cause  or  no ; for  he  had  never  yet  read  anything  to  the  contrary  in  any  books  of  chivalry.  Sancho 
desired  him,  however,  to  consider  that  it  was  high  time  to  go  to  dinner ; but  his  master  answered 
him,  that  he  might  eat  whenever  he  pleased  ; as  for  himself,  he  was  not  yet  disposed  to  do  it. 
Sancho,  having  thus  obtained  leave,  fixed  himself  as  orderly  as  he  could  upon  his  ass  ; and  taking 
some  victuals  out  of  his  wallet,  fell  to  munching  lustily  as  he  rode  behind  his  master ; and  ever  and 
anon  he  lifted  his  bottle  to  his  nose,  and  fetched  such  hearty  pulls,  that  it  would  have  made  the  best 
pampered  vintner  in  Malaga  a-dry  to  have  seen  him.  While  he  thus  went  on  stuffing  and  swilling, 
he  did  not  think  in  the  least  of  all  his  master’s  great  promises ; and  was  so  far  from  esteeming  it  a 
trouble  to  travel  in  quest  of  adventures,  that  lie  fancied  it  to  be  the  greatest  pleasure  in  the  world, 
though  they  were  never  so  dreadful. 

In  fine,  they  passed  that  night  under  some  trees  ; from  one  of  which  Don  Quixote  tore  a 
withered  branch,  which  in  some  sort  was  able  to  serve  him  for  a lance,  and  to  this  he  fixed  the  head 
or  spear  of  that  which  was  broken.  But  he  did  not  sleep  all  that  night,  keeping  his  thoughts  intent 
on  his  dear  Dulcinea,  in  imitation  of  what  he  had  read  in  books  of  chivalry,  where  the  knights  pass 
their  time,  without  sleep,  in  forests  and  deserts,  wholly  taken  up  with  the  entertaining  thoughts  of 
their  absent  mistresses.  As  for  Sancho,  he  did  not  spend  the  night  at  that  idle  rate ; for,  having 
his  paunch  well  stuffed  with  something  more  substantial  than  dandelion-water,  he  made  but  one  nap 
of  it ; and  had  not  his  master  waked  him,  neither  the  sprightly  beams  which  the  sun  darted  on  his 
face,  nor  the  melody  of  the  birds,  that  cheerfully  on  every  branch  welcomed  the  smiling  morn,  would 
have  been  able  to  have  made  him  stir.  As  he  got  up,  to  clear  his  eye-sight,  he  took  two  or  three 
long-winded  swigs  at  his  friendly  bottle  for  a morning’s  draught  : but  he  found  it  somewhat  lighter 
than  it  was  the  night  before ; which  misfortune  went  to  his  very  heart,  for  he  shrewdly  mistrusted 
that  he  was  not  in  a way  to  cure  it  of  that  distemper  as  soon  as  he  could  have  wished.  On  the 
other  side,  Don  Quixote  would  not  break  fast,  having  been  feasting  all  night  on  the  more  delicate 
and  savoury  thoughts  of  his  mistress ; and  therefore  they  went  on  directly  towards  the  pass  of 

Lapice,  which  they  discovered  about  three  o’clock.  When  they  came  near  it,  “ Here  it  is,  brother 

7 


5° 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  we  may  wanton,  and,  as  it  were,  thrust  our  arms  up  to  the  very 
elbows,  in  that  which  we  call  adventures.  But  let  me  give  thee  one  necessary  caution;  know,  that 
though  thou  shouldst  see  me  in  the  greatest  extremity  of  danger,  thou  must  not  offer  to  draw  thy 
sword  in  my  defence,  unless  thou  findest  me  assaulted  by  base  plebeians  and  vile  scoundrels  ; for  in 
such  a case  thou  mayst  assist  thy  master  : but  if  those  with  whom  I am  fighting  are  knights,  thou  must 
not  do  it ; for  the  laws  of  chivalry  do  not  allow  thee  to  encounter  a knight  till  thou  art  one  thyself.” 

“ Never  fear,”  quoth  Sancho;  “ I’ll  be  sure  to  obey  your  worship  in  that,  I’ll  warrant  you  ; for 
I have  ever  loved  peace  and  quietness,  and  never  cared  to  thrust  myself  into  frays  and  quarrels  : 
and  yet  I don’t  care  to  take  blows  at  any  one’s  hands  neither  ; and  should  any  knight  offer  to  set 
upon  me  first,  I fancy  I should  hardly  mind  your  laws  ; for  all  laws,  whether  of  God  or  man,  allow 
one  to  stand  in  his  own  defence,  if  any  offer  to  do  him  a mischief.” 

“ I agree  to  that,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  as  for  helping  me  against  any  knights,  thou  must 
set  bounds  to  thy  natural  impulses.” 

“ I’ll  be  sure  to  do  it,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ never  trust  me  if  I don’t  keep  your  commandments  as 
well  as  I do  the  Sabbath.” 

As  they  were  talking,  they  spied  coming  towards  them  two  monks  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict 
mounted  on  two  dromedaries,  for  the  mules  on  which  they  rode  were  so  high  and  stately,  that  they 
seemed  little  less.  They  wore  riding-masks,  with  glasses  at  the  eyes,  against  the  dust,  and 
umbrellas  to  shelter  them  from  the  sun.  After  them  came  a coach,  with  four  or  five  men  on  horse- 
back, and  two  muleteers  on  foot.  There  proved  to  be  in  the  coach  a Biscayan  lady,  who  was  going 
to  Seville  to  meet  her  husband,  that  was  there  in  order  to  embark  for  the  Indies,  to  take  possession 
of  a considerable  post.  Scarce  had  Don  Quixote  perceived  the  monks,  who  were  not  of  the  same 
company,  though  they  went  the  same  way,  but  he  cried  to  his  squire,  “Either  I am  deceived,  or  this 
will  prove  the  most  famous  adventure  that  ever  was  known ; for  without  all  question  those  two 
black  things  that  move  towards  us  must  be  some  necromancers,  that  are  carrying  away  by  force 
some  princess  in  that  coach  ; and  ’tis  my  duty  to  prevent  so  great  an  injury.” 

“ I fear  me  this  will  prove  a worse  job  than  the  windmills,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ ’Slife,  sir,  don’t  you 
see  these  are  Benedictine  friars  ? and  ’tis  likely  the  coach  belongs  to  some  travellers  that  are  in  it : 
therefore,  once  more  take  warning,  and  don’t  you  be  led  away  by  the  devil.” 

“ I have  already  told  thee,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  art  miserably  ignorant  in 
matters  of  adventures:  what  I say  is  true,  and  thou  shaltfind  it  so  presently.”  This  said,  he  spurred 
on  his  horse,  and  posted  himself  just  in  the  midst  of  the  road  where  the  monks  were  to  pass.  And 
when  they  came  within  hearing,  “ Diabolical  and  monstrous  race ! ” cried  he,  in  a loud  and  haughty 
tone,  “ immediately  release  those  high-born  princesses  whom  you  are  violently  conveying  away  in 
the  coach,  or  else  prepare  to  meet  with  instant  death,  as  the  just  punishment  of  your  pernicious 
deeds.”  The  monks  stopped  their  mules,  no  less  astonished  at  the  figure  than  at  the  expressions  of 
*he  speaker. 

“ Sir  Knight,”  cried  they,  “ we  are  no  such  persons  as  you  are  pleased  to  term  us,  but  religious 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


5 1 

men,  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict,  that  travel  about  our  affairs,  and  are  wholly  ignorant  whether  or 
no  there  are  any  princesses  carried  away  by  force  in  that  coach.” 

“ I am  not  to  be  deceived  with  fair  words,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ I know  you  well  enough, 
perfidious  caitiffs ; ” and  immediately,  without  waiting  for  their  reply,  he  set  spurs  to  Rozinante,  and 
ran  so  furiously,  with  his  lance  couched,  against  the  first  monk,  that  if  he  had  not  prudently  flung 
himself  off  to  the  ground,  the  knight  would  certainly  have  laid  him  either  dead  or  grievously 
wounded. 

The  other  observing  the  discourteous  usage  of  his  companion,  clapped  his  heels  to  his  over- 
grown mule’s  flanks,  and  scoured  over  the  plain  as  if  he  had  been  running  a race  with  the  wind. 

Sancho  Panza  no  sooner  saw  the  monk  fall,  but  he  nimbly  leaped  off  his  ass,  and  running 
to  him,  began  to  strip  him  immediately ; but  then  the  two  muleteers,  who  waited  on  the  monks, 
came  up  to  him,  and  asked  why  he  was  stripping  him.  Sancho  told  them  that  this  belonged  to 
him  as  lawful  plunder,  being  the  spoils  won  in  battle  by  his  lord  and  master,  Don  Quixote. 

The  fellows,  with  whom  there  was  no  jesting,  not  knowing  what  he  meant  by  his  spoils 
and  battle,  and  seeing  Don  Quixote  at  a good  distance  in  deep  discourse  by  the  side  of  the 
coach,  fell  both  upon  poor  Sancho,  threw  him  down,  tore  his  beard  from  his  chin,  thumped 
and  mauled  him  in  every  part  of  his  carcase,  and  there  left  him  sprawling  without  breath  or 
motion. 

In  the  meanwhile  the  monk,  scared  out  of  his  wits,  and  as  pale  as  a ghost,  got  upon  his  mule 
again  as  fast. as  he  could,  and  spurred  after  his  friend,  who  stayed  for  him  at  a distance,  waiting 
to  see  the  issue  of  this  strange  adventure ; and  being  unwilling  to  stay  to  see  the  end  of  it,  they 
made  the  best  of  their  way,  making  more  signs  of  the  cross  than  they  had  done  on  any  previous 
occasion. 

Don  Quixote,  as  I said,  was  all  that  while  engaged  with  the  lady  in  the  coach.  “ Lady,”  cried 
he,  “ your  discretion  is  now  at  liberty  to  dispose  of  your  beautiful  self  as  you  please ; for  the  pre- 
sumptuous arrogance  of  those  who  attempted  to  enslave  your  person  lies  prostrate  in  the  dust, 
overthrown  by  this  my  strenuous  arm  : and  that  you  may  not  be  at  a loss  for  the  name  of  your 
deliverer,  know  I am  called  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  by  profession  a knight-errant  and  adven- 
turer, captive  to  that  peerless  beauty,  Donna  Dulcinea  del  Toboso:  nor  do  I desire  any  other 
recompense  for  the  service  I have  done  you,  but  that  you  return  to  Toboso  to  present  yourself  to 
that  lady,  and  let  her  know  what  I have  done  to  purchase  your  deliverance.”  To  this  strange  talk, 
a certain  Biscayan,  the  lady’s  squire,  gentleman-usher,  or  what  you  will  please  to  call  him,  who  rode 
along  with  the  coach,  listened  with  great  attention  ; and  perceiving  that  Don  Quixote  not  only 
stopped  the  coach,  but  would  have  it  presently  go  back  to  Toboso,  he  bore  briskly  up  to  him,  and 
laying  hold  of  his  lance,  “ Get  gone ! ” cried  he  to  him  in  bad  Spanish  and  worse  Biscayan.  “ Get 
gone,  thou  knight  ! or  by  that  power  that  made  me,  if  thou  dost  not  leave  the  coach,  me  kill  thee 
now,  so  sure  as  me  be  a Biscayan.” 


5- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Don  Quixote,  who  made  shift  to  understand  him  well  enough,  very  calmly  made  him  this  answer: 
“ Wert  thou  a cavalier,  as  thou  art  not,  ere  this  l would  have  chastised  thy  insolence  and  temerity, 
thou  inconsiderable  mortal ! ” 

“ What ! me  no  gentleman  ? " replied  the  Biscayan  ; “ I swear  thou  say  false,  as  me  be  Christian. 
If  thou  throw  away  lance,  and  draw  sword,  me  will  make  no  more  of  thee  than  cat  does  of  mouse  : 
me  will  show  thee  me  be  Biscayan,  and  gentleman  by  land,  gentleman  by  sea,  gentleman  in  spite  of 
you  ; and  thou  lie  if  thou  say  contrary.” 

“ I’ll  try  titles  with  you,  as  the  man  said,”  replied  Don  Quixote  : and  with  that,  throwing  away 
his  lance,  he  drew  his  sword,  grasped  his  target,  and  attacked  the  Biscayan,  fully  bent  on  his 
destruction.  The  Biscayan  seeing  him  come  on  so  furiously,  would  gladly  have  alighted,  not 
trusting  to  his  mule,  which  was  one  of  those  scurvy  jades  that  are  let  out  to  hire  ; but  all  he  had 
time  to  do  was  only  to  draw  his  sword,  and  snatch  a cushion  out  of  tne  coach  to  serve  him  instead 
of  a shield  ; and  immediately  they  assaulted  one  another  with  all  the  fury  of  mortal  enemies.  The 
bystanders  did  all  they  could  to  prevent  their  fighting ; but  it  was  in  vain,  for  the  Biscayan  swore 
in  his  gibberish  he  would  kill  his  very  lady,  and  all  those  who  presumed  to  hinder  him,  if  they 
would  not  let  him  fight.  The  lady  in  the  coach  being  extremely  affrighted  at  these  passages,  made 
her  coachman  drive  out  of  harm’s  way,  and  at  a distance  was  an  eye-witness  of  the  furious 
combat.  At  the  same  time  the  Biscayan  let  fall  such  a mighty  blow  on  Don  Quixote’s  shoulder 
over  his  target,  that  had  not  his  armour  been  sword-proof,  he  would  have  cleft  him  down  to  the 
very  waist. 

The  knight  feeling  the  weight  of  that  unmeasurable  blow,  cried  out  aloud,  “ Oh ! lady  of  my 
soul,  Dulcinea  ! flower  of  all  beauty,  vouchsafe  to  succour  your  champion  in  this  dangerous  combat, 
undertaken  to  set  forth  your  worth  ! ” 

The  breathing  out  of  this  short  prayer,  the  griping  fast  of  his  sword,  the  covering  of  himself  with 
his  shield,  and  the  charging  of  his  enemy,  was  but  the  work  of  a moment ; for  Don  Quixote  was 
resolved  to  venture  the  fortune  of  the  combat  all  upon  one  blow.  The  Biscayan,  who  read  his 
design  in  his  dreadful  countenance,  resolved  to  face  him  with  equal  bravery,  and  stand  the  terrible 
shock,  with  uplifted  sword,  and  covered  with  the  cushion,  not  being  able  to  manage  his  jaded  mule, 
who,  defying  the  spur,  and  not -being  cut  out  for  such  pranks,  would  move  neither  to  the  right  nor  to 
the  left.  While  Don  Quixote,  with  his  sword  aloft,  was  rushing  upon  the  wary  Biscayan,  with  a full 
resolution  to  cleave  him  asunder,  all  the  spectators  stood  trembling  with  terror  and  amazement, 
expecting  the  dreadful  event  of  those  prodigious  blows  which  threatened  the  two  desperate  com- 
batants : the  lady  in  the  coach,  with  her  women,  were  making  a thousand  vows  and  offerings  to  all 
the  images  and  places  of  devotion  in  Spain,  that  Providence  might  deliver  them  and  the  squire  out 
of  the  great  danger  that  threatened  them. 

But  here  we  must  deplore  the  abrupt  end  of  this  history,  which  the  author  leaves  off  just  at  the 
very  point  when  the  fortune  of  the  battle  is  going  to  be  decided,  pretending  he  could  find  nothing 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


53 

more  recorded  of  Don  Quixote’s  wondrous  achievements  than  what  he  had  already  related.  How- 
ever, the  second  undertaker  of  this  work  could  not  believe  that  so  curious  a history  could  lie  for  ever 
inevitably  buried  in  oblivion  ; or  that  the  learned  of  La  Mancha  were  so  regardless  of  their  country’s 
glory  as  not  to  preserve  in  their  archives,  or  at  least  in  their  closets,  some  memoirs,  as  monuments 
of  this  famous  knight ; and  therefore  he  would  not  give  over  inquiring  after  the  continuation  of  this 
pleasant  history,  till  at  last  he  happily  found  it. 


CHAPTER  IX. 


THE  EVENT  OF  THE  MOST  STUPENDOUS  COMBAT  BETWEEN  THE  BRAVE  BISCAYAN  AND  THE  VALOROUS 

DON  QUIXOTE. 


WE  left  the  valiant  Biscayan  and  the  renowned  Don  Quixote  with  their  swords  lifted  up 
and  ready  to  discharge  on  each  other  two  furious  and  most  terrible  blows,  which,  had 
they  fallen  directly,  and  met  with  no  opposition,  would  have  cut  and  divided  the  two  combatants 
from  head  to  heel,  and  have  split  them  like  a pomegranate  : but,  as  I said  before,  the  story  remained 
imperfect ; neither  did  the  author  inform  us  where  we  might  find  the  remaining  part  of  the  relation. 
This  vexed  me  extremely,  and  turned  the  pleasure  which  the  perusal  of  the  beginning  had  afforded 
me,  into  disgust,  when  I had  reason  to  despair  of  ever  seeing  the  rest.  Yet,  after  all,  it  seemed  to 
me  no  less  impossible  than  unjust  that  so  valiant  a knight  should  have  been  destitute  of  some 
learned  person  to  record  his  incomparable  exploits  ; a misfortune  which  never  attended  any  of  his 
predecessors — I mean,  the  knights-adventurers — each  of  whom  was  provided  with  one  or  two  learned 
men,  who  were  always  at  hand  to  write  not  only  their  wondrous  deeds,  but  also  to  set  down  their 
thoughts  and  childish  petty  actions,  were  they  never  so  hidden.  Therefore,  as  I could  not  imagine 
that  so  worthy  a knight  should  be  so  unfortunate  as  to  want  that  which  has  been  so  profusely 
lavished  even  on  such  a one  as  Platyr,  and  others  of  that  stamp,  I could  not  induce  myself  to 
believe  that  so  admirable  a history  was  ever  left  unfinished,  and  rather  chose  to  think  that  time, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


55 

the  devourer  of  all  things,  had  hid  or  consumed  it.  On  the  other  side,  when  I considered  that 
several  modern  books  were  found  in  his  study,  as  the  “ Cure  of  Jealousy,”  and  the  “ Nymphs  and 
Shepherds  of  Henares,”  I had  reason  to  think  that  the  history  of  our  knight  could  be  of  no  very 
ancient  date ; and  that,  had  it  never  been  continued,  yet  his  neighbours  and  friends  could  not  have 
forgot  the  most  remarkable  passages  of  his  life.  Full  of  this  imagination,  I resolved  to  make  it  my 
business  to  make  a particular  and  exact  inquiry  into  the  life  and  miracles  of  our  renowned  Spaniard, 
Don  Quixote,  that  refulgent  glory  and  mirror  of  the  knighthood  of  La  Mancha,  and  the  first  who, 
in  these  depraved  and  miserable  times,  devoted  himself  to  the  neglected  profession  of  knight- 
errantry,  to  redress  wrongs  and  injuries,  to  relieve  widows,  and  defend  the  honour  of  damsels.  For 
this  reason  and  many  others,  I say,  our  gallant  Don  Quixote  is  worthy  everlasting  and  universal 
praise ; nor  ought  I to  be  denied  my  due  commendation  for  my  indefatigable  care  and  diligence,  in 
seeking  and  finding  out  the  continuation  of  this  delightful  history  ; though,  after  all,  I must  confess 
that  had  not  chance  or  fortune  assisted  me  in  the  discovery,  the  world  had  been  deprived  of  two 
hours’  diversion  and  pleasure,  which  it  is  likely  to  afford  to  those  who  will  read  it  with  attention. 
One  day,  being  in  the  Alcana  at  Toledo,  I saw  a young  lad  offer  to  sell  a parcel  of  old  written  papers 
to  a shopkeeper.  Now  I,  being  apt  to  take  up  the  least  piece  of  written  or  printed  paper  that  lies 
in  my  way,  though  it  were  in  the  middle  of  the  street,  could  not  forbear  laying  my  hands  on  one  of 
the  manuscripts,  to  see  what  it  was,  and  I found  it  to  be  written  in  Arabic,  which  I could  not  read. 
This  made  me  look  about  to  see  whether  I could  find  a Morisco  that  understood  Spanish,  to  read 
it  for  me,  and  give  me  some  account  of  it ; nor  was  it  very  difficult  to  meet  with  an  interpreter 
there ; for  had  I wanted  one  for  a better  and  more  ancient  tongue,  that  place  would  have  infallibly 
supplied  me.  It  was  my  good  fortune  to  find  one  immediately  ; and  having  informed  him  of  my 
desire,  he  no  sooner  read  some  lines,  but  he  began  to  laugh.  I asked  him  what  he  laughed 
at.  “ At  a certain  remark  here  in  the  margin  of  the  book,”  said  he.  I prayed  him  to  explain  it ; 
whereupon  still  laughing,  he  did  it  in  these  words — “ This  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  so  often  mentioned 
in  this  history,  is  said  to  have  had  the  best  hand  at  salting  of  pork  of  any  woman  in  all  La  Mancha.” 

I was  surprised  when  I heard  him  name  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  and  presently  imagined  that 
those  old  papers  contained  the  history  of  Don  Quixote.  This  made  me  press  him  to  read  the  title 
of  the  book;  which  he  did,  turning  it  thus  extemporary  out  of  Arabic:  “The  History  of  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha;  written  by  Cid  Hamet  Benengeli,  an  Arabian  Historiographer.”  I was 
so  overjoyed  when  I heard  the  title,  that  I had  much  ado  to  conceal  it ; and  presently  taking  the 
bargain  out  of  the  shopkeeper’s  hand,  I agreed  with  the  young  man  for  the  whole,  and  bought 
that  for  half  a real  which  he  might  have  sold  me  for  twenty  times  as  much,  had  he  but  guessed  at 
the  eagerness  of  his  chapman.  I immediately  withdrew  with  my  purchase  to  the  cloister  of  the 
great  church,  taking  the  Moor  with  me ; and  desired  him  to  translate  me  those  papers  that  treated 
of  Don  Quixote,  without  adding  or  omitting  the  least  word,  offering  him  any  reasonable  satisfaction, 
fie  asked  me  but  two  arrobes  of  raisins,  and  two  bushels  of  wheat,  and  promised  me  to  do  it  faith- 
fully with  all  expedition  ; in  short,  for  the  quicker  dispatch,  and  the  greater  security,  being  unwilling 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


to  let  such  a lucky  prize  go  out  of  my  hands,  I took  the  Moor  to  my  own  house,  where  in  less  than 
six  weeks  he  finished  the  whole  translation. 

Don  Quixote’s  fight  with  the  Biscayan  was  exactly  drawn  on  one  of  the  leaves  of  the  first 
quire,  in  the  same  posture  as  we  left  them,  with  their  swords  lifted  up  over  their  heads,  the  one 
guarding  himself  with  his  shield,  the  other  with  his  cushion.  The  Biscayan’s  mule  was  pictured  so 
to  the  life,  that  with  half  an  eye  you  might  have  known  it  to  be  an  hired  mule.  Under  the  Biscayan 
was  written  Don  Sancho  de  Aspetia ; and  under  Rozinante,  Don  Quixote.  Rozinante  was  so 
admirably  delineated — so  slim,  so  stiff,  so  lean,  so  jaded,  with  so  sharp  a ridge-bone,  and  altogether  so 
like  one  wasted  with  an  incurable  consumption — that  any  one  must  have  owned  at  first  sight  that  no 
horse  ever  better  deserved  that  name.  Not  far  off  stood  Sancho  Panza  holding  his  ass  by  the 
halter ; at  whose  feet  there  was  a scroll,  in  which  was  written  Sancho  Canzas  : and  if  we  may  judge 
of  him  by  his  picture,  he  was  thick  and  short,  paunch-bellied,  and  long-haunched  ; so  that  in  all 
likelihood  for  this  reason  he  is  sometimes  called  Panza  and  sometimes  Canza  in  this  history.  There 
were  some  other  niceties  to  be  seen  in  that  piece,  but  hardly  worth  observation,  as  not  giving  any 
light  into  this  true  history,  otherwise  they  had  not  passed  unmentioned ; for  none  can  be  amiss  so 
they  be  authentic.  I must  only  acquaint  the  reader  that  if  any  objection  is  to  be  made  as  to  the  veracity 
of  this,  it  is  only  that  the  author  is  an  Arabian,  and  those  of  that  country  are  not  a little  addicted 
to  lying;  but  yet,  if  we  consider  that  they  are  our  enemies,  we  should  sooner  imagine  that  the  author 
has  rather  suppressed  the  truth,  than  added  to  the  real  worth  of  our  knight ; and  I am  the  more 
inclinable  to  think  so,  because  it  is  plain,  that  where  he  ought  to  have  enlarged  on  his  praises,  he 
maliciously  chooses  to  be  silent — a proceeding  unworthy  of  an  historian,  who  ought  to  be  exact, 
sincere,  and  impartial ; free  from  passion,  and  not  to  be  biassed  either  by  interest,  fear,  resentment, 
or  affection,  to  deviate  from  truth,  which  is  the  mother  of  history,  the  preserver  and  eterniser  of  great 
actions,  the  professed  enemy  of  oblivion,  the  witness  of  things  passed,  and  the  director  of  future 
times.  As  for  this  history,  I know  it  will  afford  you  as  great  a variety  as  you  could  wish,  in  the 
most  entertaining  manner ; and  if  in  any  point  it  falls  short  of  your  expectation,  I am  of  opinion  it 
is  more  the  fault  of  its  author  than  the  subject : and  so  let  us  come  to  the  history,  which,  according 
to  our  translation,  began  in  this  manner. 

Such  were  the  bold  and  formidable  looks  of  the  two  enraged  combatants,  that  with  up-lifted 
arms,  and  with  destructive  steel,  they  seemed  to  threaten  heaven,  earth,  and  the  infernal  mansions ; 
while  the  spectators  seemed  wholly  lost  in  fear  and  astonishment.  The  choleric  Biscayan  discharged 
the  first  blow,  and  that  with  such  a force,  and  so  desperate  a fury,  that  had  not  his  sword  turned  in 
his  hand,  that  single  stroke  had  put  an  end  to  the  dreadful  combat,  and  all  our  knight’s  adventures. 
But  Fate,  that  reserved  him  for  greater  things,  so  ordered  it,  that  his  enemy’s  sword  turned  in  such 
a manner,  that  though  it  struck  him  on  the  left  shoulder,  it  did  him  no  other  hurt  than  to  disarm 
that  side  of  his  head,  carrying  away  with  it  a great  part  of  his  helmet  and  one  half  of  his  ear,  which, 
like  a dreadful  ruin,  fell  together  to  the  ground.  Assist  me,  ye  powers  ! but  it  is  in  vain  : the 
fury  which  then  engrossed  the  breast  of  our  hero  of  La  Mancha  is  not  to  be  expressed  ; words  would 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


57 


but  wrong  it ; for  what  colour  of  speech  can  be  lively  enough  to  give  but  a slight  sketch  or  faint 
image  of  his  unutterable  rage  ? Exerting  all  his  valour,  he  raised  himself  upon  his  stirrups,  and 
seemed  even  greater  than  himself ; and  at  the  same  instant  griping  his  sword  fast  with  both  hands, 
he  discharged  such  a tremendous  blow  full  on  the  Biscayan’s  cushion  and  his  head,  that  in  spite  of 
so  good  a defence,  as  if  a whole  mountain  had  fallen  upon  him,  the  blood  gushed  out  at  his  mouth, 
nose,  and  ears,  all  at  once  ; and  he  tottered  so  in  his  saddle,  that  he  had  fallen  to  the  ground 
immediately,  had  he  not  caught  hold  of  the  neck  of  his  mule  : but  the  dull  beast  itself  being  roused 
out  of  its  stupidity  with  that  terrible  blow,  began  to  run  about  the  fields  ; and  the  Biscayan,  having 
lost  his  stirrups  and  his  hold,  with  two  or  three  winces  the  mule  shook  him  off,  and  threw  him  on 
the  ground.  Don  Quixote  beheld  the  disaster  of  his  foe  with  the  greatest  tranquillity  and  unconcern 
imaginable  ; and  seeing  him  down,  slipped  nimbly  from  his  saddle,  and  running  to  him,  set  the  point 
of  his  sword  to  his  throat,  and  bid  him  yield,  or  he  would  cut  off  his  head.  The  Biscayan  was  so 
stunned,  that  he  could  make  him  no  reply  ; and  Don  Quixote  had  certainly  made  good  his  threats, 
so  provoked  was  he,  had  not  the  ladies  in  the  coach,  who  with  great  uneasiness  and  fear  beheld  the 
sad  transactions,  hastened  to  beseech  Don  Quixote  very  earnestly  to  spare  his  life.  “ Truly,  beautiful 
ladies,”  said  the  victorious  knight,  with  a great  deal  of  loftiness  and  gravity,  “ I am  willing  to  grant 
your  request ; but  upon  condition  thaj  this  same  knight  shall  pass  his  word  of  honour  to  go  to 
Toboso,  and  there  present  himself  in  my  name  before  the  peerless  lady  Donna  Dulcinea,  that  she 
may  dispose  of  him  as  she  shall  see  convenient.” 

The  lady,  who  was  frightened  almost  out  of  her  senses,  without  considering  what  Don  Quixote 
enjoined,  or  inquiring  who  the  lady  Dulcinea  was,  promised  in  her  squire’s  behalf  a punctual 
obedience  to  the  knight’s  commands. 

“ Let  him  live,  then,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ upon  your  word,  and  owe  to  your  intercession  that 
pardon  which  I might  justly  deny  his  arrogance.” 


8 


CHAPTER  X. 

WHAT  FARTHER  BEFELL  DON  QUIXOTE  WITH  THE  BISCAYAN  ; AND  OF  THE  DANGER  HE  RAN  AMONG  A 

PARCEL  OF  YANGUESIANS. 

SANCHO  PANZA  was  got  up  again  before  this,  not  much  better  for  the  kicks  and  thumps 
bestowed  on  his  carcase  by  the  monks’  grooms ; and  seeing  his  master  engaged  in  fight,  he 
went  devoutly  to  prayers,  beseeching  Heaven  to  grant  him  victory,  that  he  might  now  win  some 
island,  in  order  to  his  being  made  governor  of  it,  according  to  his  promise.  At  last,  perceiving  the 
danger  was  over,  the  combat  at  an  end,  and  his  master  ready  to  mount  again,  he  ran  in  all  haste  to 
help  him  ; but  ere  the  knight  put  his  foot  in  the  stirrup,  Sancho  fell  on  his  knees  before  him,  and, 
kissing  his  hand,  “ An’t  please  your  worship,”  cried  he,  “ my  good  lord  Don  Quixote,  I beseech  you 
make  me  governor  of  the  island  you  have  won  in  this  dreadful  and  bloody  fight ; for  though  it  were 
never  so  great,  I find  myself  able  to  govern  it  as  well  as  the  best  that  ever  went  about  to  govern 
an  island  in  the  world.” 

“ Brother  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ these  are  no  adventures  of  islands ; these  are  only 
rencounters  on  the  road,  where  little  is  to  be  got  besides  a broken  head,  or  the  loss  of  an  ear  : there- 
fore have  patience,  and  some  adventure  will  offer  itself,  which  will  not  only  enable  me  to  prefer  thee 
to  a orovernment,  but  even  to  somethine  more  considerable.” 

Sancho  gave  him  a world  of  thanks ; and  having  once  more  kissed  his  hand,  and  the  skirts  of 
his  coat  of  armour,  he  helped  him  to  get  upon  Rozinante  ; and  then  leaping  on  his  ass,  he  followed 
the  hero,  who,  without  taking  leave  of  those  in  the  coach,  put  on  a good  round  pace,  and  rode  into 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


59 


a wood  that  was  not  far  off.  Sancho  made  after  him  as  fast  as  his  ass  would  trot ; but  finding 
Rozinante  was  like  to  leave  him  behind,  he  was  forced  to  call  for  his  master  to  stay  for  him.  Don 
Quixote  accordingly  checked  his  horse,  and  soon  gave  Sancho  leisure  to  overtake  him. 

“ Methinks,  sir,”  said  the  fearful  squire,  as  soon  as  he  came  up  with  him,  “ it  won’t  be  amiss  for 
us  to  betake  ourselves  to  some  church,  to  get  out  of  harm’s  way ; for  if  that  same  man  whom  you 
have  fought  with  should  do  otherwise  than  well,  I dare  lay  my  life  they  will  get  a warrant  from  the 
holy  brotherhood,  and  have  us  taken  up ; which  if  they  do,  on  my  word  it  will  go  hard  with  us  ere 
we  can  get  out  of  their  clutches.” 

“ Hold  thy  tongue!”  cried  Don  Quixote  : “ where  didst  thou  ever  read  or  find  that  a knight- 
errant  was  brought  before  any  judge  for  the  homicides  which  he  committed  ?” 

“ I can’t  tell  what  you  mean  by  your  homilies,”  replied  Sancho  ; “ I do  not  know  that  ever  I 
saw  one  in  my  born  days,  not  I ; but  well  I wot  that  the  law  lays  hold  on  those  that  go  to 
murder  one  another  in  the  fields  ; and  for  your  what  d’ye  call  them’s,  I’ve  nothing  to  say  to  them.” 

“ Then  be  not  afraid,  good  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote ; “for  I would  deliver  thee  out  of  the 
hands  of  the  Chaldeans,  and  with  much  more  ease  out  of  those  of  the  holy  brotherhood.  But  come, 
tell  me  truly,  dost  thou  believe  that  the  whole  world  can  boast  of  another  knight  that  may  pretend 
to  rival  me  in  valour  ? didst  thou  ever  read  in  history,  that  any  other  ever  showed  more  resolution 
to  undertake,  more  vigour  to  attack,  more  breath  to  hold  out,  more  dexterity  and  activity  to  strike, 
and  more  art  and  force  to  overthrow  his  enemies  ? ” 

“ Not  I,  by  my  troth,”  replied  Sancho.  “I  never  did  meet  with  anything  like  you  in  history,  for 
I can  neither  read  nor  write;  but  that  which  I dare  wager  is,  that  I never  in  my  life  served  a. bolder 
master  than  your  worship  : pray  Heaven  this  same  boldness  may  not  bring  us  to  what  I bid  you 
beware  of.  All  I have  to  put  you  in  mind  of  now  is,  that  you  get  your  ear  dressed,  for  you  lose  a 
deal  of  blood ; and  by  good  luck  I have  here  some  lint  and  a little  white  salve  in  my  wallet.” 

“ How  needless  would  all  this  have  been,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ had  I but  bethought  myself  of 
making  a small  bottle-full  of  the  balsam  of  Fierabras  ! a single  drop  of  which  would  have  spared  us 
a great  deal  of  time  and  medicaments.” 

“ What  is  that  same  balsam,  an’t  please  you  ? ” cried  Sancho. 

“ A balsam,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ of  which  I have  the  receipt  in  my  head.  He  that 
has  it  may  defy  death  itself,  and  dally  with  all  manner  of  wounds  : therefore,  when  I.  jiave 
made  some  of  it,  and  given  it  thee,  if  at  any  time  thou  happenest  to  see  my  body  cut  in  t,wo  by 
some  unlucky  back-stroke,  as  ’tis  common  among  us  knights-errant,  thou  hast  no  more  to  do., but. to 
take  up  nicely  that  half  of  me  which  is  fallen  to  the  ground,  and  clap  it  exactly  to  the  other  half  on 
the  saddle  before  the  blood  is  congealed,  always  taking  care  to  lay  it  just  in  its  proper  place.;  then 
thou  shalt  give  me  two  draughts  of  that  balsam,  and  thou  shalt  immediately  see  me  become  whole, 
and  sound  as  an  apple.” 

“If  this  be  true,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I will  quit  you  of  your  promise  about  the  island  this  rpinute 
of  an  hour,  and  will  have  nothing  of  your  worship  for  what  service  I have  done  and  am  to  do  you, 


6o 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


but  the  receipt  of  that  same  balsam  ; for,  I dare  say,  let  me  go  wherever  I will,  it  will  be  sure  to 
yield  me  three  good  reals  an  ounce  ; and  thus  I shall  make  shift  to  pick  a pretty  good  livelihood 
out  of  it.  But  stay,  though,”  continued  he,  “ does  the  making  stand  your  worship  in  much,  sir  ?” 

“ Three  quarts  of  it,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ may  be  made  for  three  reals.” 

“ Body  of  me!”  cried  Sancho,  “ why  do  not  you  make  some  out  of  hand,  and  teach  me  how  ro 
make  it  ? ” 

“ Say  no  more,  friend  Sancho,”  returned  Don  Quixote ; “ I intend  to  teach  thee  much  greater 
secrets,  and  design  thee  nobler  rewards ; but  in  the  meantime  dress  my  ear,  for  it  pains  me  more 
than  I could  wish." 

Sancho  then  took  his  lint  and  ointment  out  of  his  wallet ; but  when  Don  Quixote  perceived 
the  visor  of  his  helmet  was  broken,  he  had  like  to  have  run  stark  staring  mad  ; straight  laying 
hold  on  his  sword,  and  lifting  up  his  eyes  to  heaven,  “ By  the  great  Creator  of  the  universe,”  cried 
he  ; “ by  every  syllable  contained  in  the  four  holy  evangelists,  I swear  to  lead  a life  like  the  great 
Marquis  of  Mantua,  when  he  made  a vow  to  revenge  the  death  of  his  nephew  Valdovinos,  which  was, 
never  to  eat  bread  on  a table-cloth,  never  to  lie  down  in  his  bed,  and  other  things,  which,  though 
they  are  now  at  present  slipped  out  of  my  memory,  I*  comprise  in  my  vow  no  less  than  if  I had 
now  mentioned  them  ; and  this  I bind  myself  to,  till  I have  fully  revenged  myself  on  him  that  has 
done  me  this  injury.” 

“Good  your  worship,”  cried  Sancho  (amazed  to  hear  him  take  such  a horrid  oath),  “think  on 
what  you  are  doing ; for  if  that  same  knight  has  done  as  you  bid  him,  and  has  gone  and  cast  himself 
before  my  lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  I do  not  see  but  you  and  he  are  quit;  and  the  man  deserves 
no  further  punishment,  unless  he  does  you  some  new  mischief.” 

“ ’Tis  well  observed,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  therefore  as  to  the  point  of  revenge,  I revoke 
my  oath ; but  I renew  and  confirm  the  rest,  protesting  solemnly  to  lead  the  life  I mentioned,  till  I 
have  by  force  of  arms  despoiled  some  knight  of  as  good  a helmet  as  mine  was.  Neither  do  thou 
fancy,  Sancho,  that  I make  this  protestation  lightly,  or  make  a smoke  of  straw  : no,  I have  a laudable 
precedent  for  it,  the  authority  of  which  will  sufficiently  justify  my  imitation  ; for  the  very  same  thing 
happened  about  Mambrino’s  helmet,  which  cost  Sacripante  so  dear.” 

“ Good  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ let  all  such  cursing  and  swearing  alone  ; there’s  nothing  can 
be  worse  for  your  soul’s  health,  nay,  for  your  bodily  health,  neither.  Besides,  suppose  we  should 
not  this  good  while  meet  any  one  with  a helmet  on,  what  a sad  case  should  we  then  be  in  ! Will 
your  worship  then  keep  your  oath  in  spite  of  so  many  hardships,  such  as  to  lie  rough  for  a month 
together,  far  from  any  inhabited  place,  and  a thousand  other  idle  penances  which  that  mad  old 
Marquis  of  Mantua  punished  himself  with  by  his  vow  ? Do  but  consider,  that  we  may  ride  I do 
not  know  how  long  upon  this  road  without  meeting  any  armed  knight  to  pick  a quarrel  with  ; for 
here  are  none  but  carriers  and  wagoners,  who  are  so  far  from  wearing  any  helmets,  that  it  is  ten  to 
one  whether  they  ever  heard  of  such  a thing  in  their  lives.” 

“Thou  art  mistaken,  friend  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “ for  we  shall  not  be  two  hours 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


61 


this  way  without  meeting  more  men  in  arms  than  there  were  at  the  siege  of  Albraca,  to  carry  off  the 
fair  Angelica.” 

“ Well,  then,  let  it  be  so,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ and  may  we  have  luck  to  come  off  well,  and  quickly 
win  that  island  which  costs  me  so  dear,  and  then  I do  not  matter  what  befalls  me.’ 

“ I have  already  bid  thee  not  trouble  thyself  about  this  business,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote; 
“ for  should  we  miss  of  an  island,  there  is  either  the  kingdom  of  Dinamarque,  or  that  of  Sobradisa,  as 
fit  for  thy  purpose  as  a ring  to  thy  finger ; and  what  ought  to  be  no  small  comfort  to  thee,  they  are 
both  upon  terra  Jirma.  But  we’ll  talk  of  this  in  its  proper  season  : at  this  time  I would  have  thee 
see  whether  thou  hast  anything  to  eat  in  thy  wallet,  that  we  may  afterwards  seek  for  some 
castle,  where  we  may  lodge  this  night,  and  make  the  balsam  I told  thee  ; for  I protest  my  ear  smarts 
extremely.” 

“ I have  here  an  onion,”  replied  the  squire,  “ a piece  of  cheese,  and  a few  stale  crusts  of  bread  ; 
but  sure  such  coarse  fare  is  not  for  such  a brave  knight  as  your  worship.” 

“ Thou  art  grossly  mistaken,  friend  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote  : “ know  that  it  is  the 
glory  of  knights-errant  to  be  whole  months  without  eating  ; and  when  they  do,  they  fall  upon  the 
first  thing  they  meet  with,  though  it  be  never  so  homely.  Hadst  thou  but  read  as  many  books  as 
I have  done,  thou  hadst  been  better  informed  as  to  that  point ; for  though  I think  I have  read  as 
many  histories  of  chivalry  in  my  time  as  any  other  man,  I never  could  find  that  the  knights-errant 
ever  ate,  unless  it  were  by  mere  accident,  or  when  they  were  invited  to  great  feasts  and  royal 
banquets ; at  other  times  they  indulged  themselves  with  little  other  food  besides  their  thoughts. 
Though  it  is  not  to  be  imagined  they  could  live  without  supplying  the  exigencies  of  human  nature, 
as  being  after  all  no  more  than  mortal  men,  yet  it  is  likewise  to  be  supposed  that,  as  they  spent  the 
greatest  part  of  their  lives  in  forests  and  deserts,  and  always  destitute  of  a cook,  consequently  their 
usual  food  was  but  such  coarse  country  fare  as  thou  now  offerest  me.  Never,  then,  make  thyself 
uneasy  about  what  pleases  me,  friend  Sancho,  nor  pretend  to  make  a new  world,  nor  to  unhinge  the 
very  constitution  and  ancient  customs  of  knight-errantry.” 

“ I beg  your  worship’s  pardon,”  cried  Sancho  ; “ for  as  I was  never  bred  a scholar,  I may 
chance  to  have  missed  in  some  main  point  of  your  laws  of  knighthood ; but  from  this  time  forward 
I will  be  sure  to  stock  my  wallet  with  all  sorts  of  dry  fruits  for  you,  because  your  worship  is  a 
knight ; as  for  myself,  who  am  none,  I will  provide  good  poultry  and  other  substantial  victuals.” 

“ I do  not  say,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ that  a knight-errant  is  obliged  to  feed  altogether 
upon  fruit ; I only  mean,  that  this  was  their  common  food,  together  with  some  roots  and  herbs, 
which  they  found  up  and  down  the  fields,  of  all  which  they  had  a perfect  knowledge,  as  I myself 
have.” 

“ ’Tis  a good  thing  to  know  those  herbs,”  cried  Sancho  ; “ for  I am  much  mistaken,  or  that  kind 
of  knowledge  will  stand  us  in  good  stead  ere  long.  In  the  meantime,”  continued  he,  “here’s  what 
good  Heaven  has  sent  us.” 

With  that  he  pulled  out  the  provision  he  had,  and  they  fell  to  heartily  together.  But  their 


62 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


impatience  to  find  out  a place  where  they  might  be  harboured  that  night,  made  them  shorten  their 
sorry  meal,  and  mount  again,  for  fear  of  being  benighted ; so  away  they  went  in  search  of  a lodging. 

t 

But  the  sun  and  their  hopes  failed  them  at  once,  as  they  came  to  a place  where  some  goatherds 
had  set  up  some  small  huts ; and  therefore  they  concluded  to  take  up  their  lodging  there  that  night. 
This  was  as  great  a mortification  to  Sancho,  who  was  altogether  for  a good  town,  as  it  was  a pleasure 
to  his  master,  who  was  for  sleeping  in  the  open  fields,  as  believing  that  as  often  as  he  did  it  he 
confirmed  his  title  to  knighthood  by  a new  act  of  possession. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

WHAT  PASSED  BETWEEN  DON  QUIXOTE  AND  THE  GOATHERDS. 

THE  knight  was  very  courteously  received  by  the  goatherds  ; and  as  for  Sancho,  after  he 
had  set  up  Rozinante  and  his  ass  as  well  as  he  could,  he  presently  repaired  to  the  attractive 
smell  of  some  pieces  of  kid’s  flesh  which  stood  boiling  in  a kettle  over  the  fire.  The  hungry 
squire  would  immediately  have  tried  whether  they  were  fit  to  be  removed  out  of  the  kettle  into  the 
stomach,  but  was  not  put  to  that  trouble ; for  the  goatherds  took  them  off  the  fire  and  spread  some 
sheepskins  on  the  ground,  and  soon  got  their  rural  feast  ready,  and  cheerfully  invited  his  master 
and  him  to  partake  of  what  they  had.  Next,  with  some  coarse  compliment,  after  the  country  way, 
they  desired  Don  Quixote  to  sit  down  on  a trough  with  the  bottom  upwards ; and  then  six  of 
them,  who  were  all  that  belonged  to  that  fold,  squatted  them  down  round  the  skins,  while  Sancho 
stood  to  wait  upon  his  master,  and  gave  him  drink  in  a horn  cup  which  the  goatherds  used.  But 
he  seeing  his  man  stand  behind,  said  to  him — 

“ That  thou  mayest  understand,  Sancho,  the  benefits  of  knight-errantry,  and  how  the  meanest 
retainers  to  it  have  a fair  prospect  of  being  speedily  esteemed  and  honoured  by  the  world,  it  is  my 


64 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


pleasure  that  thou  sit  thee  down  by  me,  in  the  company  of  these  good  people ; and  that  there  be  no 
difference  now  observed  between  thee  and  me,  thy  natural  lord  and  master ; that  thou  eat  in  the 
same  dish,  and  drink  in  the  same  cup  ; for  it  may  be  said  of  knight-errantry,  as  of  love,  that  it  makes 
all  things  equal.” 

“ I thank  your  worship,”  cried  Sancho  ; “ but  yet  1 must  needs  own,  had  I but  a good  deal  of 
meat  before  me,  I’d  eat  it  as  well,  or  rather  better,  standing,  and  by  myself,  than  if  I sat  by  an 
emperor ; and,  to  deal  plainly  and  truly  with  you,  I had  rather  munch  a crust  of  brown  bread  and 
an  onion  in  a corner,  without  any  more  ado  or  ceremony,  than  feed  upon  turkey  at  another  man’s 
table,  where  one  is  fain  to  sit  mincing  and  chewing  his  meat  an  hour  together,  drink  little,  be  always 
wiping  his  fingers  and  mouth,  and  never  dare  to  cough  nor  sneeze,  though  he  has  never  so  much 
a mind  to  it,  nor  do  a many  things  which  a body  may  do  freely  by  one’s  self : therefore,  good  sir, 
change  those  tokens  of  your  kindness  which  I have  a right  to,  by  being  your  worship’s  squire, 
into  something  that  may  do  me  more  good.  As  for  these  same  honours,  I heartily  thank  you 
as  much  as  if  I had  accepted  them,  but  yet  I give  up  my  right  to  them  from  this  time  to  the 
world’s  end.” 

“ Talk  no  more,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ but  sit  thee  down,  for  the  humble  shall  be  exalted 
and  so  pulling  him  by  the  arms,  he  forced  him  to  sit  by  him. 

All  this  while  the  goatherds,  who  did  not  understand  this  jargon  of  knights-errant,  chivalry, 
and  squires,  but  who  fairly  swallowed  whole  luncheons  as  big  as  their  fists  with  a mighty  appetite, 
fed  heartily,  and  said  nothing,  but  stared  upon  their  guests.  The  first  course  being  over,  they 
brought  in  the  second,  consisting  of  dried  acorns,  and  half  a cheese  as  hard  as  a brick ; nor  was  the 
horn  idle  all  the  while,  but  went  merrily  round  up  and  down  so  many  times,  sometimes  full,  and 
sometimes  empty,  like  the  two  buckets  of  a well,  that  they  made  shift  at  last  to  drink  off  one  of  the 
two  skins  of  wine  which  they  had  there.  And  now  Don  Quixote  having  satisfied  his  appetite,  he 
took  a handful  of  acorns,  and  looking  earnestly  upon  them,  “ Oh,  happy  age,”  cried  he,  “ which  our 
first  parents  called  the  age  of  gold ! not  because  gold,  so  much  adored  in  this  iron  age,  was  then 
easily  purchased,  but  because  those  two  fatal  words,  ‘mine’  and  ‘thine,’ were  distinctions  unknown  to 
the  people  of  those  fortunate  times  : for  all  things  were  in  common  in  that  holy  age  : men,  for  their 
sustenance,  needed  only  to  lift  their  hands,  and  take  it  from  the  sturdy  oak,  whose  spreading  arms 
liberally  invited  them  to  gather  the  wholesome,  savoury  fruit ; while  the  clear  springs  and  silver 
rivulets,  with  luxuriant  plenty,  offered  them  their  pure,  refreshing  water.  In  hollow  trees,  and  in  the 
clefts  of  rocks,  the  labouring  and  industrious  bees  erected  their  little  commonwealths,  that  men  might 
reap  with  pleasure  and  with  ease  the  sweet  and  fertile  harvest  of  their  toils.  The  tough  and 
strenuous  cork-trees  did  of  themselves,  and  without  other  art  than  their  native  liberality,  dismiss 
and  impart  their  broad  light  bark,  which  served  to  cover  those  lowly  huts,  propped  up  with  rough- 
hewn  stakes,  that  were  first  built  as  a shelter  against  the  inclemencies  of  the  air : all  then  was 
union,  all  peace,  all  love  and  friendship  in  the  world  : as  yet  no  rude  ploughshare  presumed  with 
violence  to  pry  into  the  pious  bowels  of  our  mother  Earth  ; for  she,  without  compulsion,  kindly 


1 jlfi 

m/m 

Hh 

1 

9 


“ Oh,  happy  age,”  cried  he,  “ which  our  first  parents  called  the  age  of  gold  ! n—p.  64. 


66 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


yielded  from  every  part  of  her  fruitful  and  spacious  bosom  whatever  might  at  once  satisfy,  sustain, 
and  indulge  her  frugal  children.  Then  was  the  time  when  innocent,  beautiful  young  shepherdesses 
went  tripping  over  the  hills  and  vales ; their  lovely  hair  sometimes  plaited,  sometimes  loose  and 
flowing,  clad  in  no  other  vestment  but  what  was  necessary  to  cover  decently  what  modesty  would 
always  have  concealed  : the  Tyrian  dye,  and  the  rich  glossy  hue  of  silk,  martyred  and  dissembled 
into  every  colour,  which  are  now  esteemed  so  fine  and  magnificent,  were  unknown  to  the  innocent 
plainness  of  that  age  ; yet  bedecked  with  more  becoming  leaves  and  flowers,  they  might  be  said  to 
outshine  the  proudest  of  the  vain-dressing  ladies  of  our  age,  arrayed  in  the  most  magnificent  garbs 
and  all  the  most  sumptuous  adornings  which  idleness  and  luxury  have  taught  succeeding  pride  : 
lovers  then  expressed  the  passion  of  their  souls  in  the  unaffected  language  of  the  heart,  with  the 
native  plainness  and  sincerity  in  which  they  were  conceived,  and  divested  of  all  that  artificial 
contexture  which  enervates  what  it  labours  to  enforce  : imposture,  deceit,  and  malice  had  not  yet 
crept  in,  and  imposed  themselves  upon  mankind,  in  the  disguise  of  truth  and  simplicity  : justice, 
unbiassed  either  by  favour  or  interest,  which  now  so  fatally  pervert  it,  was  equally  and  im- 
partially dispensed  ; nor  was  the  judge’s  fancy  law,  for  then  there  were  neither  judges  nor  causes 
to  be  judged.  But  in  this  degenerate  age,  fraud  and  a legion  of  ills  infecting  the  world,  no  virtue 
can  be  safe,  no  honour  be  secure ; while  wanton  desires,  diffused  in  the  hearts  of  men,  corrupt  the 
strictest  watches  and  the  closest  retreats ; which,  though  as  intricate  and  unknown  as  the  labyrinth 
of  Crete,  are  no  security  for  chastity.  Thus  that  primitive  innocence  being  vanished,  and  oppression 
daily  prevailing,  there  was  a necessity  to  oppose  the  torrent  of  violence  : for  which  reason  the 
order  of  knighthood-errant  was  instituted,  to  defend  the  honour  of  virgins,  protect  widows,  relieve 
orphans,  and  assist  all  the  distressed  in  general.  Now  I myself  am  one  of  this  order,  honest  friends  ; 
and  though  all  people  are  obliged  by  the  law  of  nature  to  be  kind  to  persons  of  my  order,  yet  since 
you,  without  knowing  anything  of  this  obligation,  have  so  generously  entertained  me,  I ought  to 
pay  you  my  utmost  acknowledgment ; and,  accordingly,  return  you  my  most  hearty  thanks  for 
the  same.” 

All  this  long  oration,  which  might  very  well  have  been  spared,  was  owing  to  the  acorns  that 
recalled  the  golden  age  to  our  knight’s  remembrance,  and  made  him  thus  hold  forth  to  the  goat- 
herds, who  devoutly  listened,  but  edified  little,  the  discourse  not  being  suited  to  their  capacities. 
Sancho,  as  well  as  they,  was  silent  all  the  while,  eating  acorns,  and  frequently  visiting  the  second 
skin  of  wine,  which  for  coolness’  sake  was  hung  upon  a neighbouring  cork-tree.  As  for  Don 
Quixote,  he  was  longer  and  more  intent  upon  his  speech  than  upon  supper.  When  he  had  done, 
one  of  the  goatherds  addressed  himself  to  him. 

“ Sir  Knight,”  said  he,  “ that  you  may  be  sure  you  are  heartily  welcome,  we  will  get  one  of  our 
fellows  to  give  us  a song ; he  is  just  a-coming  : a good,  notable  young  lad  he  is — I will  say  that  for 
him — and  up  to  the  ears  in  love.  He  is  a scholar,  and  can  read  and  write  ; and  plays  so  rarely 
upon  the  rebeck,  that  it  is  a charm  but  to  hear  him.” 

No  sooner  were  the  words  out  of  the  goatherd’s  mouth,  but  they  heard  the  sound  of  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


67 


instrument  he  spoke  of,  and  presently  appeared  a good,  comely  young  man  of  about  two-and- 
tvventy  years  of  age.  The  goatherds  asked  him  if  he  had  supped ; and  he  having  told  them 
he  had — 

“ Then,  dear  Antonio,”  says  the  first  speaker,  “ pray  thee  sing  us  a song,  to  let  this  gentleman, 
our  guest,  see  that  we  have  those  among  us  who  know  somewhat  of  music,  for  all  we  live  amidst 
woods  and  mountains.  We  have  told  him  of  thee  already  ; therefore,  pray  thee,  make  our  words 
good,  and  sing  us  the  ditty  thy  uncle,  the  prebendary,  made  of  thy  love,  that  was  so  liked  in  our 
town.” 

“ With  all  my  heart,”  replied  Antonio  ; and  so  without  any  further  entreaty,  sitting  down  on 
the  stump  of  an  oak,  he  tuned  his  fiddle,  and  very  handsomely  sung  the  following  song  : — 


ANTONIO’S  AMOROUS  COMPLAINT. 


Though  love  ne’er  prattles  at  your  eyes 
(The  eyes  those  silent  tongues  of  love), 

Yet  sure,  Olalia,  you’re  my  prize- 

For  truth,  with  zeal,  even  heaven  can  move. 

I think,  my  love,  you  only  try, 

Even  while  I fear  you’ve  sealed  my  doom  : 

So,  though  involved  in  doubts  I lie, 

Hope  sometimes  glimmers  through  the  gloom. 

A flame  so  fierce,  so  bright,  so  pure, 

No  scorn  can  quench,  or  art  improve  : 

Thus  like  a martyr  I endure  ; 

For  there’s  a heaven  to  crown  my  love. 

In  dress  and  dancing  I have  strove 
My  proudest  rivals  to  outvie  ; 

In  serenades  I’ve  breathed  my  love, 

When  all  things  slept  but  love  and  I. 


I need  not  add,  I speak  your  praise 
Till  every  nymph’s  disdain  I move  ; 
Though  thus  a thousand  foes  I raise, 

’Tis  sweet  to  praise  the  fair  I love. 

Teresa  once  your  charms  debased, 

But  I her  rudeness  soon  reproved : 

In  vain  her  friend  my  anger  faced  ; 

For  then  I fought  for  her  I loved. 

Dear,  cruel  fair  ! why  then  so  coy  ? 

How  can  you  so  much  love  withstand  ? 
Alas  ! I crave  no  lawless  joy, 

But  with  my  heart  would  give  my  hand. 

Soft,  easy,  strong  is  Hymen’s  tie  : 

Oh,  then,  no  more  the  bliss  refuse  ! 

Oh,  wed  me,  or  I swear  to  die, 

Or  linger  wretched  and  recluse  ! 


Here  Antonio  ended  his  song;  Don  Quixote  entreated  him  to  sing  another;  but  Sancho  Panza, 

being  more  disposed  to  sleep  than  to  hear  the  finest  singing  in  the  world,  was  of  another  mind  : 

**» 

and  therefore  he  said  to  his  master — 

“ Good  sir,  your  worship  had  better  go  and  lie  down  where  you  are  to  take  your  rest  this 
night ; besides,  these  good  people  are  tired  with  their  day’s  labour,  and  rather  want  to  go  to  sleep 
than  to  sit  up  all  night  to  hear  ballads.” 

“ I understand  thee,  Sancho,  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ and,  indeed,  I thought  thy  frequent  visiting 
the  bottle  would  make  thee  fonder  of  sleep  than  of  music.” 

“ Make  us  thankful  !”  cried  Sancho ; “we  all  liked  the  wine  well  enough.” 

“ I do  not  deny  it,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “ but  go  thou  and  lay  thee  down  where  thou  pleasest; 
as  for  me,  it  better  becomes  a man  of  my  profession  to  wake  than  to  sleep  : yet  stay  and  dress  my 
ear  before  thou  goest,  for  it  pains  me  extremely.” 


68 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Thereupon  one  of  the  goatherds  beholding  the  wound,  as  Sancho  offered  to  dress  it,  desired 
the  knight  not  to  trouble  himself,  for  he  had  a remedy  that  would  quickly  cure  him ; and  then 
fetching  a few  rosemary  leaves,  which  grew  in  great  plenty  thereabout,  he  bruised  them,  and  mixed  a 
little  salt  among  them,  and  having  applied  the  medicine  to  the  ear,  he  bound  it  up,  assuring  him  he 
needed  no  other  remedy ; which  in  a little  time  proved  very  true. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

THE  STORY  WHICH  A YOUNG  GOATHERD  TOLD  TO  THOSE  THAT  WERE  WITH  DON  QUIXOTE. 

A YOUNG  FELLOW,  who  used  to  bring  them  provisions  from  the  aext  village,  happened 
to  come  while  this  was  doing,  and  addressing  himself  to  the  goatherds,  “ Hark  ye,  friends,” 
said  he,  “ d’ye  hear  the  news  ? ” 

“ What  news  ? ” cried  one  of  the  company. 

“That  fine  shepherd  and  scholar  Chrysostome  died  this  morning,”  answered  the  other  ; “and 
they  say  it  was  for  love  of  that  untoward  lass,  Marcella,  rich  William’s  daughter,  that  goes  up  and 
down  the  country  in  the  habit  of  a shepherdess.” 

“ For  Marcella  ! ” cried  one  of  the  goatherds. 

“ I say  for  her,”  replied  the  fellow  ; “ and  what  is  more,  it  is  reported  he  has  ordered  by  his 
will,  they  should  bury  him  in  the  fields  like  any  heathen  Moor,  just  at  the  foot  of  the  rock  hard  by 
the  cork-tree  fountain,  where  they  say  he  had  the  first  sight  of  her.  Nay,  he  has  likewise  ordered 
many  other  strange  things  to  be  done,  which  the  heads  of  the  parish  won’t  allow  of,  for  they  seem 
to  be  after  the  way  of  the  Pagans.  But  Ambrose,  the  other  scholar  who,  likewise  apparelled 
himself  like  a shepherd,  is  resolved  to  have  his  friend  Chrysostome’s  will  fulfilled  in  everything,  just 


7° 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


as  he  has  ordered  it.  All  the  village  is  in  an  uproar.  But,  after  all,  it  is  thought  Ambrose  and  his 
friends  will  carry  the  day;  and  to-morrow  morning  he  is  to  be  buried  in  great  state  where  I told  you: 
I fancy  it  will  be  worth  seeing ; howsoever,  be  it  what  it  will,  I will  even  go  and  see  it,  even  though 
I could  not  oret  back  a^ain  to-morrow.” 

“ We  will  all  go,”  cried  the  goatherds,  “ and  cast  lots  who  shall  tarry  to  look  after  the  goats.” 

“ Well  said,  Peter,”  cried  one  of  the  goatherds  ; “ but  as  for  casting  of  lots,  I will  save  you  that 
labour,  for  I will  stay  myself,  not  so  much  out  of  kindness  to  you  neither,  or  want  of  curiosity,  as 
because  of  the  thorn  which  stuck  into  my  toe  the  other  day,  that  will  not  let  me  go.” 

“ Thank  you,  however,”  quoth  Peter. 

Don  Quixote,  who  heard  all  this,  entreated  Peter  to  tell  him  who  the  deceased  was,  and  also  to 
give  him  a short  account  of  the  shepherdess. 

Peter  made  answer,  that  all  he  knew  of  the  matter  was,  that  the  deceased  was  a wealthy  gentle- 
man, who  lived  not  far  off ; that  he  had  been  several  years  at  the  university  of  Salamanca,  and  then 
came  home  mightily  improved  in  his  learning.  “ But  above  all,”  quoth  he,  “ it  was  said  of  him,  that 
he  had  great  knowledge  in  the  stars,  and  whatsoever  the  sun  and  moon  do  in  the  skies,  for  he  would 
tell  us  punctually  the  clip  of  the  sun  and  moon.” 

“ We  call  it  an  eclipse,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ and  not  a clip,  when  either  of  those  two  great 
luminaries  are  darkened.” 

“ He  would  also,”  continued  Peter,  who  did  not  stand  upon  such  nice  distinctions,  “foretell  when 
the  year  would  be  plentiful  or  estil.” 

“ You  would  say  steril ,”  cried  Don  Quixote. 

“ Steril  or  estil,"  replied  the  fellow,  “ that  is  all  one  to  me  : but  this  I say,  that  his  parents  and 
friends,  being  ruled  by  him,  grew  woundy  rich  in  a short  time ; for  he  would  tell  them,  ‘ This  year 
sow  barley,  and  no  wheat  : in  this  you  may  sow  pease,  and  no  barley  : next  year  will  be  a good 
year  for  oil  : the  three  after  that,  you  shan’t  gather  a drop;’  and  whatsoever  he  said  would  certainly 
come  to  pass.” 

*'  That  science,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “is  called  astrology.” 

“ I do  not  know  what  you  call  it,”  answered  Peter,  “ but  I know  he  knew  all  this,  and  a deal 
more.  . But,  in  short,  within  some  few  months  after  he  had  left  the  ’versity,  on  a certain  morning  we 
saw  him  come  dressed  for  all  the  world  like  a shepherd,  and  driving  his  flock,  having  laid  down  the 
long  gown,  which  he  used  to  wear  as  a scholar.  At  the  same  time  one  Ambrose,  a great  friend  of 
his,  who  had  been  his  fellow-scholar  also,  took  upon  him  to  go  like  a shepherd,  and  keep  him 
company,  which  we  all  did  not  a little  marvel  at.  I had  almost  forgot  to  tell  you  how  he  that  is  dead 
was  a mighty  man  for  making  of  verses,  insomuch  that  he  commonly  made  the  carols  which  we  sung 
on  Christmas-eve,  and  the  plays  which  the  young  lads  in  our  neighbourhood  enacted  on  Corpus 
Christi  Day  ; and  every  one  would  say,  that  nobody  could  mend  them.  Somewhat  before  that  time 
Chrysostome’s  father  died,  and  left  him  a deal  of  wealth,  both  in  land,  money,  cattle,  and  other  goods, 
whereof  the  young  man  remained  dissolute  master  ; and  in  troth  he  deserved  it  all,  for  he  was  as 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


71 


good-natured  a soul  as  e’er  trod  on  shoe  of  leather ; mighty  good  to  the  poor,  a main  friend  to  all 
honest  people,  and  had  a face  like  a blessing.  At  last  it  came  to  be  known,  that  the  reason  of  his 
altering  his  garb  in  that  fashion,  was  only  that  he  might  go  up  and  down  after  that  shepherdess 
Marcella,  whom  our  comrade  told  you  of  before,  for  he  was  fallen  mightily  in  love  with  her.  And 
now  I will  tell  you  such  a thing  you  never  heard  the  like  in  your  born  days,  and  may  not  chance  to 
hear  of  such  another  while  you  breathe,  though  you  were  to  live  as  long  as  Sarnah.” 

“ Say  Sarah,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  who  hated  to  hear  him  blunder  thus. 

“ The  Sarna,  or  the  itch,  for  that  is  all  one  with  us,”  quoth  Peter,  “ lives  long  enough  too  ; but 
if  you  make  me  break  off  my  tale  at  every  word,  we  are  not  like  to  have  done  this  twelvemonth.” 

“ Pardon  me,  friend,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ I only  spoke  to  make  thee  understand  that  there 
is  a difference  between  Sarna  and  Sarah  : however,  thou  sayest  well  ; for  the  Sarna  (that  is,  the 
itch)  lives  longer  than  Sarah  ; therefore  pray  make  an  end  of  thy  story,  for  I will  not  interrupt 
thee  any  more.” 

“ Well,  then,”  quoth  Peter,  “ you  must  know,  good  master  of  mine,  that  there  lived  near  us  one 
William,  a yeoman,  who  was  richer  yet  than  Chrysostome’s  father , now  he  had  no  child  in  the 
’versal  world  but  a daughter  ; her  mother  died  when  she  was  born  (rest  her  soul!),  and  was  as  good  a 
woman  as  ever  went  upon  two  legs  : methinks  I see  her  yet  standing  afore  me,  with  that  blessed 
face  of  hers,  the  sun  on  one  side,  and  the  moon  on  the  t’other.  She  was  a main  house-wife,  and  did 
a deal  of  good  among  the  poor  ; for  which  I dare  say  she  is  at  this  minute  in  Paradise.  Alas  ! her 
death  broke  old  William’s  heart ; he  soon  went  after  her,  poor  man!  and  left  all  to  his  little  daughter, 
that  Marcella  by  name,  giving  charge  of  her  to  her  uncle,  the  parson  of  our  parish.  Well,  the  girl 
grew  such  a fine  child,  and  so  like  her  mother,  that  it  used  to  put  us  in  mind  of  her  every  foot : 
however,  ’twas  thought  she’d  make  a finer  woman  yet : and  so  it  happened  indeed ; for,  by  that 
time  she  was  fourteen  or  fifteen  years  of  age,  no  man  set  his  eyes  on  her  that  did  not  bless  Heaven 
for  having  made  her  so  handsome ; so  that  most  men  fell  in  love  with  her,  and  were  ready  to  run 
mad  for  her.  All  this  while  her  uncle  kept  her  up  very  close  : yet  the  report  of  her  great  beauty 
and  wealth  spread  far  and  near,  insomuch  that  she  had  I don’t  know  how  many  sweethearts. 
Almost  all  the  young  men  in  our  town  asked  her  of  her  uncle  ; nay,  from  I don’t  know  how  many 
leagues  about  us,  there  flocked  whole  droves  of  suitors,  and  the  very  best  in  the  country,  too,  who  all 
begged,  and  sued,  and  teased  her  uncle  to  let  them  have  her.  But  though  he’d  have  been  glad  to 
have  got  fairly  rid  of  her,  as  soon  as  she  was  fit  for  a husband,  yet  would  not  he  advise  or  marry  her 
against  her  will  ; for  he’s  a good  man,  I’ll  say  that  for  him,  and  a true  Christian  every  inch  of  him, 
and  scorns  to  keep  her  from  marrying  to  make  a benefit  of  her  estate  ; and,  to  his  praise  be  it  spoken, 
he  has  been  mainly  commended  for  it  more  than  once,  when  the  people  of  our  parish  meet  together. 
For  I must  tell  you,  Sir  Errant,  that  here  in  the  country,  and  in  our  little  towns,  there  is  not  the 
least  thing  can  be  said  or  done,  but  people  will  talk  and  find  fault  : but  let  busybodies  prate  as  they 
please,  the  parson  must  have  a good  body  indeed  who  could  bring  his  whole  parish  to  give  him  a 
good  word,  especially  in  the  country.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

/ - 

“ Thou  art  in  the  right,”  cried  Don  Quixote ; “ and  therefore  go  on,  honest  Peter,  for  the  story 
is  pleasant,  and  thou  tellest  it  with  a grace." 

“ May  I never  want  God’s  grace ! ” quoth  Peter,  “ for  that  is  most  to  the  purpose.  But  for  our 
parson,  as  I told  you  before,  he  was  not  for  keeping  his  niece  from  marrying,  and  therefore  he  took 
care  to  let  her  know  of  all  those  that  would  have  taken  her  to  wife,  both  what  they  were,  and  what 
they  had,  and  he  was  at  her,  to  have  her  pitch  upon  one  of  them  for  a husband  ; yet  would  she 
never  answer  otherwise,  but  that  she  had  no  mind  to  wed  as  yet,  as  finding  herself  too  young  for 
the  burden  of  wedlock.  With  these  and  such  like  come-offs,  she  got  her  uncle  to  let  her  alone,  and 
wait  till  she  thought  fit  to  choose  for  herself : for  he  was  wont  to  say,  that  parents  are  not  to  bestow 
their  children  where  they  bear  no  liking,  and  in  that  he  spoke  like  an  honest  man.  And  thus  it 
happened,  that  when  we  least  dreamed  of  it,  that  coy  lass,  finding  herself  at  liberty,  would  needs  turn 
shepherdess  ; and  neither  her  uncle,  nor  all  those  of  the  village  who  advised  her  against  it,  could 
work  anything  upon  her,  but  away  she  went  to  the  fields  to  keep  her  own  sheep  with  the  other 
young  lasses  of  the  town.  But  then  it  was  ten  times  worse  ; for  no  sooner  was  she  seen  abroad, 
than  I cannot  tell  how  many  spruce  gallants,  both  gentlemen  and  rich  farmers,  changed  their  garb 
for  love  of  her.  and  followed  her  up  and  down  in  shepherd’s  guise.  One  of  them,  as  I have  told 
you,  was  this  same  Chrysostome,  who  now  lies  dead,  of  whom  it  is  said,  he  not  only  loved,  but 
worshipped  her.  Howsoever,  I would  not  have  you  think  or  surmise,  because  Marcella  took  that 
course  of  life,  and  was  as  it  were  under  no  manner  of  keeping,  that  she  gave  the  least  token  of 
naughtiness  or  light  behaviour ; for  she  ever  was,  and  is  still,  so  coy,  and  so  watchful  to  keep  her 
honour  pure  and  free  from  evil  tongues,  that  among  so  many  wooers  who  suitor  her,  there  is  not  one 
can  make  his  brags  of  having  the  least  hope  of  ever  speeding  with  her ; for  though  she  does  not 
shun  the  company  of  shepherds,  but  uses  them  courteously,  so  far  as  they  behave  themselves 
handsomely,  yet  whensoever  any  one  of  them  does  but  offer  to  break  his  mind  to  her,  be  it  never 
so  well  meant,  and  only  in  order  to  marry,  she  casts  him  away  from  her,  as  with  a sling,  and  will 
never  have  any  more  to  say  to  him. 

“ And  thus  this  fair  maiden  does  more  harm  in  this  country  than  the  plague  would  do ; for  her 
courteousness  and  fair  looks  draw  on  everybody  to  love  her  ; but  then  her  dogged,  stubborn  coyness 
breaks  their  hearts,  and  makes  them  ready  to  hang  themselves  ; and  all  they  can  do,  poor  wretches, 
is  to  make  a heavy  complaint,  and  call  her  cruel,  unkind,  ungrateful,  and  a world  of  such  names, 
whereby  they  plainly  show  what  a sad  condition  they  are  in.  Were  you  but  to  stay  here  some  time, 
you’d  hear  these  hills  and  valleys  ring  again  wiht  the  doleful  moans  of  those  she  has  denied,  who  yet 
cannot,  for  the  blood  of  them,  give  over  sneaking  after  her.  We  have  a place  not  far  off,  where  there 
are  some  two  dozen  of  beech-trees,  and  on  them  all  you  may  find  I don’t  know  how  many  Marcellas 
cut  in  the  smooth  bark.  On  some  of  them  there  is  a crown  carved  over  the  name,  as  much  as  to 
say  that  Marcella  bears  away  the  crown,  and  deserves  the  garland  of  beauty.  Here  sighs  one 
shepherd,  there  another  whines  ; here  is  one  singing  doleful  ditties,  there  another  is  wringing  his 
hands  and  making  woful  complaints.  You  shall  have  one  lay  him  down  at  night  at  the  foot  of  a 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


73 


rock,  or  some  oak,  and  there  lie  weeping  and  wailing,  without  a wink  of  sleep,  and  talking  to  himself 
till  the  sun  finds  him  the  next  morning ; you  shall  have  another  lie  stretched  upon  the  hot,  sandy 
ground,  breathing  his  sad  lamentations  to  Heaven,  without  heeding  the  sultry  heat  of  the  summer 
sun.  And  all  this  while  the  hard-hearted  Marcella  ne’er  minds  any  one  of  them,  and  does  not  seem  to 
be  the  least  concerned  for  them.  We  are  all  mightily  at  a loss  to  know  what  will  be  the  end  of  all 
this  pride  and  coyness  ; who  shall  be  the  happy  man  that  shall  at  last  tame  her,  and  bring  her  to  his 
lure.  Now  because  there  is  nothing  more  certain  than  all  this,  I am  the  more  apt  to  give  credit  to 
what  our  comrade  has  told  us,  as  to  the  occasion  of  Chrysostome’s  death  ; and  therefore  I would 
needs  have  you  go  and  see  him  laid  in  his  grave  to-morrow  ; which  I believe  will  be  worth  your 
while,  for  he  had  many  friends,  and  it  is  not  half  a league  to  the  place  where  it  was  his  will  to  be 
buried.” 

“ I intend  to  be  there,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ and  in  the  meantime  I return  thee  many 
thanks  for  the  extraordinary  satisfaction  this  story  has  afforded  me.” 

“ Alas  ! Sir  Knight,”  replied  the  goatherd,  “ I have  not  told  you  half  the  mischiefs  this  proud' 
creature  hath  done  here,  but  to-morrow  mayhap  we  shall  meet  some  shepherd  by  the  way  that  will! 
be  able  to  tell  you  more.  Meanwhile  it  won’t  be  amiss  for  you  to  take  your  rest  in  one  of  the  huts  ; 
for  the  open  air  is  not  good  for  your  wound,  though  what  I’ve  put  to  it  is  so  special  a medicine  that 
there’s  not  much  need  to  fear  but  ’twill  do  well  enough.” 

Sancho,  who  was  quite  out  of  patience  with  the  goatherd’s  long  story,  and  wished  him  further 

* 

for  his  pains,  at  last  prevailed  with  him  to  lie  down  in  Peter’s  hut,  where  Don  Quixote,  in 
imitation  of  Marcella’s  lovers,  devoted  the  remainder  of  the  night  to  amorous  expostulations  with 
his  dear  Dulcinea.  As  for  Sancho,  he  laid  himself  down  between  Rozinante  and  his  ass,  and  slept 
it  out,  not  like  a disconsolate  lover,  but  like  a man  that  had  been  soundly  kicked  and  bruised  in  the 
morning. 


PIS.A'M;  . 


10 


CHAPTER  XIII. 


A CONTINUATION  OF  THE  STORY  OF  MARCELLA. 

SCARCE  had  day  begun  to  appear  from  the  balconies  of  the  east,  when  five  of  the  goatherds 
;ot  up,  and  having  waked  Don  Quixote,  asked  him  if  he  held  his  resolution  of  going  to  the 
funeral,  whither  they  were  ready  to  bear  him  company.  Thereupon  the  knight,  who  desired  nothing 
more  presently  arose,  and  ordered  Sancho  to  get  Rozinante  and  the  ass  ready  .mmediately  ; winch 
he  did  with  all  expedition,  and  then  they  set  forwards.  They  had  not  gone  a quarter  of  a league 
before  they  saw  advancing  towards  them,  out  of  a cross  path,  six  shepherds  clad  in  black  skins,  their 
heads  crowned  with  garlands  of  cypress  and  bitter  rose-bay-tree,  with  long  holly-staves  m t e,r 
hands  Two  gentlemen  on  horseback,  attended  by  three  young  lads  on  foot,  came  immediately  a ter 
them  1 as  they  drew  near,  they  saluted  one  another  civilly,  and  after  the  usual  question,  “ Which 
way  d'ye  travel  ?”  they  found  they  were  all  going  the  same  way,  to  see  the  funeral  : and  so  they 

all  joined  company.  . 

I fancy.  Senor  Vivaldo,”  said  one  of  the  gentlemen,  addressing  himself  to  the  other,  we 

shall  not  think  our  time  misspent  in  going  to  see  this  famous  funeral,  for  it  must  of  necessity  be  veiy 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  75 

extraordinary,  according  to  the  account  which  these  men  have  given  us  of  the  dead  shepherd  and 
his  murdering  mistress.” 

“ I am  so  far  of  your  opinion,”  answered  Vivaldo,  “ that  I would  not  stay  one  day,  but  a whole 
week,  rather  than  miss  the  sight.” 

This  gave  Don  Quixote  occasion  to  ask  them  what  they  had  heard  concerning  Chrysostome 
and  Marcella.  One  of  the  gentlemen  made  answer,  That  having  met  that  morning  with  these 
shepherds,  they  could  not  forbear  inquiring  of  them  why  they  wore  such  a mournful  dress  ; where- 
upon one  of  them  acquainted  them  with  the  sad  occasion,  by  relating  the  story  of  a certain 
shepherdess,  named  Marcella,  no  less  lovely  than  cruel,  whose  coyness  and  disdain  had  made  a world 
of  unfortunate  lovers,  and  caused  the  death  of  that  Chrysostome  to  whose  funeral  they  were  going. 
In  short,  he  repeated  to  Don  Quixote  all  that  Peter  had  told  him  the  night  before.  After 
this,  Vivaldo  asked  the  knight  why  he  travelled  so  completely  armed  in  so  peaceable  a country. 

“ My  profession,”  answered  the  champion,  “ does  not  permit  me  to  ride  otherwise.  Luxurious 
feasts,  sumptuous  dresses,  and  downy  ease  were  invented  for  effeminate  courtiers  ; but  labour, 
vigilance,  and  arms  are  the  portion  of  those  whom  the  world  calls  knights-errant,  of  which  number 
I have  the  honour  to  be  one,  though  the  most  unworthy  and  the  meanest  of  the  fraternity.” 

He  needed  to  say  no  more  to  satisfy  them  his  brains  were  out  of  order ; however,  that 
they  might  the  better  understand  the  nature  of  his  folly,  Vivaldo  asked  him  what  he  meant  by  a 
knight-errant. 

“ Have  you  not  read,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “the  Annals  and  History  of  Britain,  where  are  recorded 
the  famous  deeds  of  King  Arthur,  who,  according  to  an  ancient  tradition  in  that  kingdom,  never 
died,  but  was  turned  into  a crow  by  enchantment,  and  shall  one  day  resume  his  former  shape,  and 
recover  his  kingdom  again  ? For  which  reason,  since  that  time,  the  people  of  Great  Britain  dare 
not  offer  to  kill  a crow.  In  this  good  king’s  time,  the  most  noble  order  of  the  Knights  of  the  Round 
Table  was  first  instituted,  and  then  also  the  amours  between  Sir  Lancelot  of  the  Lake  and  Queen 
Guinever  were  really  transacted,  as  that  history  relates  ; they  being  managed  and  carried  on  by  the 
mediation  of  that  honourable  matron,  the  Lady  Quintaniona,  which  produced  that  excellent 
history  in  verse  so  sung  and  celebrated  here  in  Spain — 

‘ There  never  was  on  earth  a knight 
So  waited  on  by  ladies  fair, 

As  once  was  he  Sir  Lancelot  hight, 

When  first  he  left  his  country  dear : ’ 

and  the  rest,  which  gives  so  delightful  an  account  both  of  his  loves  and  feats  of  arms.  From  that 
time  the  order  of  knight-errantry  began  by  degrees  to  dilate  and  extend  itself  into  most  parts  of  the 
world.  Then  did  the  great  Amadis  de  Gaul  signalise  himself  by  heroic  exploits,  and  so  did  his 
offspring  to  the  fifth  generation.  The  valorous  Felixmart  of  Hyrcania  then  got  immortal  fame,  and 
that  undaunted  knight,  Tirante  the  White,  who  never  can  be  applauded  to  his  worth.  Nay,  had  we 
but  lived  a little  sooner,  we  might  have  been  blessed  with  the  conversation  of  that  invincible  knight 


;6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


of  our  modern  times,  the  valorous  Don  Belianis  of  Greece.  And  this,  gentlemen,  is  that  order  of 
chivalry  which,  sinner  though  I am,  I profess,  with  a due  observance  of  the  laws  which  those  brave 
knights  observed  before  me  ; and  for  that  reason  I choose  to  wander  through  these  solitary  deserts, 
seeking  adventures,  fully  resolved  to  expose  my  person  to  the  most  formidable  dangers  which  Fortune 
can  obtrude  on  me,  that  by  the  strength  of  my  arm  I may  relieve  the  weak  and  the  distressed.” 

After  all  this  stuff,  you  may  be  sure  the  travellers  were  sufficiently  convinced  of  Don  Quixote’s 
frenzy.  Nor  were  they  less  surprised  than  were  all  those  who  had  hitherto  discovered  so  unaccount- 
able a distraction  in  one  who  seemed  a rational  creature.  However,  Vivaldo,  who  was  of  a gay 
disposition,  had  no  sooner  made  the  discovery,  but  he  resolved  to  make  the  best  advantage  of  it 
that  the  shortness  of  the  way  would  allow  him. 

Therefore,  to  give  him  further  occasion  to  divert  them  with  his  whimsies,  “ Methinks,  Sir  Knight- 
errant,”  said  he  to  him,  “ you  have  taken  up  one  of  the  strictest  and  most  mortifying  professions 
in  the  world.  I don’t  think  but  that  a Carthusian  friar  has  a better  time  on’t  than  you  have.” 

“ Perhaps,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ the  profession  of  a Carthusian  may  be  as  austere,  but  I 
am  within  two  fingers’  breadth  of  doubting  whether  it  may  be  as  beneficial  to  the  world  as  ours. 
For,  if  we  must  speak  the  truth,  the  soldier,  who  puts  his  captain’s  command  in  execution,  may  be 
said  to  do  as  much  at  least  as  the  captain  who  commanded  him.  The  application  is  easy  : for, 
while  those  religious  men  have  nothing  to  do,  but  with  all  quietness  and  security  to  say  their 
prayers  for  the  prosperity  of  the  world,  we  knights,  like  soldiers,  execute  what  they  do  but  pray  for, 
by  the  strength  of  our  arms,  and  at  the  hazard  of  our  lives,  exposed  to  summer’s  scorching  heat  and 
winter’s  pinching  cold.  However,  gentlemen,  do  not  imagine  I would  insinuate  as  if  the  profession 
of  a knight-errant  was  a state  of  perfection  equal  to  that  of  a holy  recluse  : I would  only  infer 
from  what  I have  said,  and  what  I myself  endure,  that  ours  without  question  is  more  laborious,  more 
•subject  to  the  discipline  of  heavy  blows,  to  maceration,  to  the  penance  of  hunger  and  thirst,  and, 
in  a word,  to  rags,  to  want,  and  misery.  For  if  you  find  that  some  knights-errant  have  at  last  by 
their  valour  been  raised  to  thrones  and  empires,  you  may  be  sure  it  has  been  still  at  the  expense  of 
much  sweat  and  blood.  And  had  even  those  happier  knights  been  deprived  of  those  assisting  sages 
and  enchanters,  who  helped  them  in  all  emergencies,  they  would  have  been  strangely  disappointed 
of  their  mighty  expectations.” 

“ I am  of  the  same  opinion,”  replied  Vivaldo.  “ But  one  thing  among  many  others,  which  I can 
by  no  means  approve  in  your  profession,  is,  that  when  you  are  just  going  to  engage  in  some  very 
hazardous  adventure,  where  your  lives  are  evidently  to  be  much  endangered,  you  never  once 
remember  to  commend  yourselves  to  God,  as  every  good  Christian  ought  to  do  on  such  occasions, 
but  only  recommend  yourselves  to  your  mistresses,  and  that  with  as  great  zeal  and  devotion  as  if 
you  worshipped  no  other  deity  ; a thing  which,  in  my  opinion,  strongly  relishes  of  paganism.” 

“ Sir,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ there  is  no  altering  that  method ; for  should  a knight-errant  do 
otherwise,  he  would  too  much  deviate  from  the  ancient  and  established  customs  of  knight-errantry, 
which  inviolably  oblige  him  just  in  the  moment  when  he  is  rushing  on,  to  have  his  mistress  still 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


77 


before  his  eyes,  by  a strong  and  lively  imagination,  and  with  soft,  amorous,  and  energetic  looks, 
imploring  her  favour  and  protection  in  that  perilous  circumstance.  Nay,  even  if  nobody  can  hear 
him,  he  is  obliged  to  whisper,  or  speak  between  his  teeth,  some  short  ejaculations,  to  recommend 
himself  with  all  the  fervency  imaginable  to  the  lady  of  his  wishes  ; and  of  this  we  have  innumerable 
examples  in  history.  Nor  are  you  for  all  this  to  imagine  that  knights-errant  omit  recommending 
themselves  to  Heaven,  for  they  have  leisure  enough  to  do  it  even  in  the  midst  of  the  combat.” 

“ Sir,”  replied  Vivaldo,  “ you  must  give  me  leave  to  tell  you,  I am  not  yet  thoroughly  satisfied 
on  this  point  : for  I have  often  observed  in  my  reading,  that  two  knights-errant,  having  first  talked 
a little  together,  have  fallen  out  presently,  and  been  so  highly  provoked,  that,  having  turned  their 
horses’  heads  to  gain  room  for  the  career,  they  have  wheeled  about,  and  then  with  all  speed  run  full 
tilt  at  one  another,  hastily  recommending  themselves  to  their  mistresses  in  the  midst  of  their  career ; 
and  the  next  thing  has  commonly  been,  that  one  of  them  has  been  thrown  to  the  ground  over  the 
crupper  of  his  horse,  fairly  run  through  and  through  with  his  enemy’s  lance  ; and  the  other  forced  to 
catch  hold  of  his  horse’s  mane  to  keep  himself  from  falling.  Now,  I cannot  apprehend  how  the 
knight  that  was  slain  had  any  time  to  recommend  himself  to  Heaven,  when  his  business  was  done 
so  suddenly.  Methinks  those  hasty  invocations,  which  in  his  career  were  directed  to  his  mistress, 
should  have  been  directed  to  Heaven,  as  every  good  Christian  would  have  done.  Besides,  I fancy 
every  knight-errant  has  not  a mistress  to  invoke,  nor  is  every  one  of  them  in  love.” 

“Your  conjecture  is  wrong,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “a  knight-errant  cannot  be  without  a 
mistress.  ’Tis  not  more  essential  for  the  skies  to  have  stars,  than  ’tis  to  us  to  be  in  love  ; insomuch, 
that  I dare  affirm  that  no  history  ever  made  mention  of  any  knight-errant  that  was  not  a lover  : 
for  were  any  knight  free  from  the  impulses  of  that  generous  passion,  he  would  not  be  allowed  to  be 
a lawful  knight,  but  a misborn  intruder,  and  one  who  was  not  admitted  within  the  pale  of  knight- 
hood at  the  door,  but  leaped  the  fence,  and  stole  in  like  a robber  and  a thief.” 

“Yet,  sir,”  replied  the  other,  “I  am  much  mistaken,  or  I have  read  that  Don  Galaor,  the 
brother  of  Amadis,  never  had  any  certain  mistress  to  recommend  himself  to,  and  yet  for  all  that  he 
was  not  the  less  esteemed.” 

“ One  swallow  never  makes  a summer,”  answered  Don  Quixote.  “ Besides,  I know  that  knight 
was  privately  very  much  in  love  ; and  as  for  his  making  his  addresses  wherever  he  met  with  beauty, 
this  was  an  effect  of  his  natural  inclination,  which  he  could  not  easily  restrain.  But  after  all,  ’tis  an 
undeniable  truth,  that  he  had  a favourite  lady,  whom  he  had  crowned  empress  of  his  will  ; and  to 
her  he  frequently  recommended  himself  in  private,  for  he  did  not  a little  value  himself  upon  his 
discretion  and  secrecy  in  love.” 

“Then,  sir,”  said  Vivaldo,  “since  ’tis  so  much  the  being  of  knight-errantry  to  be  in  love,  I 
presume  you,  who  are  of  that  profession,  cannot  be  without  a mistress.  And  therefore,  if  you  do 
not  set  up  for  secrecy  as  much  as  Don  Galaor  did,  give  me  leave  to  beg  of  you,  in  the  name  of  all 
the  company,  that  you  will  be  pleased  so  far  to  oblige  us  as  to  let  us  know  the  name  and  quality  of 
your  mistress,  the  place  of  her  birth,  and  the  charms  of  her  person.  For,  without  doubt,  the  lady 


78 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


cannot  but  esteem  herself  happy  in  being  known  to  all  the  world  to  be  the  object  of  the  wishes  of  a 
knight  so  accomplished  as  yourself.” 

With  that  Don  Quixote,  breathing  out  a deep  sigh,  “ I cannot  tell,”  said  he,  “ whether  this 
lovely  enemy  of  my  repose  is  the  least  affected  with  the  world’s  being  informed  of  her  power  over 
my  heart ; all  I dare  say,  in  compliance  with  your  request,  is,  that  her  name  is  Dulcinea,  her  country 
La  Mancha,  and  Toboso  the  happy  place  which  she  honours  with  her  residence.  As  for  her 
quality,  it  cannot  be  less  than  princess,  seeing  she  is  my  mistress  and  my  queen.  Her  beauty 
transcends  all  the  united  charms  of  her  whole  sex  ; even  those  chimerical  perfections  which  the 
hyperbolical  imaginations  of  poets  in  love  have  assigned  to  their  mistresses  cease  to  be  incredible 
descriptions  when  applied  to  her,  in  whom  all  those  miraculous  endowments  are  most  divinely 
centred.  The  curling  locks  of  her  bright  flowing  hair  are  purest  gold  ; her  smooth  forehead  the 
Elysian  Plain  ; her  brows  are  two  celestial  bows  ; her  eyes  two  glorious  suns  ; her  cheeks  two  beds 
of  roses  ; her  lips  are  coral  ; her  teeth  are  pearl ; her  neck  is  alabaster  ; her  hands  ivory  ; and 
snow  would  lose  its  whiteness  near  her  bosom.” 

“ Pray,  sir,”  cried  Vivaldo,  “ oblige  us  with  an  account  of  her  parentage,  and  the  place  of  her 
birth,  to  complete  the  description.” 

“ Sir,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ she  is  not  descended  from  the  ancient  Curtius’s,  Caius’s,  nor 
Scipios  of  Rome,  nor  from  the  more  modern  Colonas  nor  Ursinis  ; nor  from  the  Moncadas  and 
Requesenes  of  Catalonia ; nor  from  the  Rebillas  and  Villanovas  of  Valencia ; nor  from  the 
Palafoxes,  Nucas,  Rocabertis,  Corellas,  Lunas,  Alagones,  Urreas,  Fozes,  or  Gurreas  of  Arragon ; 
nor  from  the  Cerdas,  Manriques,  Mendozas,  and  Guzmans  of  Castile  ; nor  from  the  Alencastros, 
Pallas,  and  Menezes  of  Portugal;  but  she  derives  her  great  original  from  the  family  of  Toboso  in 
La  Mancha — a race,  which,  though  it  be  modern,  is  sufficient  to  give  a noble  beginning  to  the  most 
illustrious  progenies  of  succeeding  ages.  And  let  no  man  presume  to  contradict  me  in  this,  unless 
it  be  upon  those  conditions  which  Zerbin  fixed  at  the  foot  of  Orlando’s  armour  : 

‘ Let  none  but  he  these  arms  displace, 

Who  dares  Orlando’s  fury  face.’  ” 

“ I draw  my  pedigree  from  the  Cachopines  of  Laredo,”  replied  Vivaldo;  “ yet  I dare  not  make 
any  comparisons  with  the  Tobosos  of  La  Mancha;  though,  to  deal  sincerely  with  you,  ’tis  a family 
I never  heard  of  till  this  moment.” 

“ ’Tis  strange,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “you  should  never  have  heard  of  it  before.” 

All  the  rest  of  the  company  gave  great  attention  to  this  discourse  ; and  even  the  very  goat- 
herds and  shepherds  were  now  fully  convinced  that  Don  Quixote’s  brains  were  turned  topsy-turvy. 
But  Sancho  Panza  believed  every  word  that  dropped  from  his  master’s  mouth  to  be  truth,  as  having 
known  him  from  his  cradle  to  be  a man  of  sincerity.  Yet  that  which  somewhat  staggered  his  faith 
was  this  story  of  Dulcinea  of  Toboso;  for  he  was  sure  he  had  never  heard  before  of  any  such 
princess,  nor  even  of  the  name,  though  he  lived  hard  by  Toboso. 

As  they  went  on  thus  discoursing,  they  saw,  upon  the  hollow  road  between  the  neighbouring 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


79 


mountains,  about  twenty  shepherds  more,  all  accoutred  in  black  skins,  with  garlands  on  their  heads, 
which,  as  they  afterwards  perceived,  were  all  of  yew  or  cypress  ; six  of  them  carried  a bier  covered 
with  several  sorts  of  boughs  and  flowers  : which  one  of  the  goatherds  espying — 

“ Those  are  they,”  cried  he,  “ that  are  carrying  poor  Chrysostome  to  his  grave  ; and  ’twas  in 
yonder  bottom  that  he  gave  charge  they  should  bury  his  corpse.” 

This  made  them  all  double  their  pace,  that  they  might  get  thither  in  time  ; and  so  they  arrived 
just  as  the  bearers  had  set  down  the  bier  upon  the  ground,  and  four  of  them  had  begun  to  open  the 
ground  with  their  spades,  just  at  the  foot  of  a rock.  They  all  saluted  each  other  courteously,  and 
condoled  their  mutual  loss  ; and  then  Don  Quixote,  with  those  who  came  with  him,  went  to  view  the 
bier  ; where  they  saw  the  dead  body  of  a young  man  in  shepherd’s  weeds,  all  strewed  over  with 
flowers.  The  deceased  appeared  about  thirty  years  old  ; and,  dead  as  he  was,  it  was  easily  perceived 
that  both  his  face  and  shape  were  extraordinarily  handsome.  Within  the  bier  were  some  books  and 
papers,  some  open,  and  the  rest  folded  up.  This  doleful  object  so  strangely  filled  all  the  company 
with  sadness,  that  not  only  the  beholders,  but  also  the  grave-makers,  and  all  the  mourning  shepherds, 
remained  a long  time  silent ; till  at  last  one  of  the  bearers,  addressing  himself  to  one  of  the  rest — 

“ Look,  Ambrose,”  cried  he,  “ whether  this  be  the  place  which  Chrysostome  meant,  since  you 
must  needs  have  his  will  so  punctually  performed.” 

“ This  is  the  very  place,”  answered  the  other ; “ there  it  was  that  my  unhappy  friend  many 
times  told  me  the  sad  story  of  his  cruel  fortune  ; and  there  it  was  that  he  first  saw  that  mortal  enemy 
of  mankind  ; there  it  was  that  he  made  the  first  discovery  of  his  passion,  no  less  innocent  than 
violent ; there  it  was  that  the  relentless  Marcella  last  denied,  shunned  him,  and  drove  him  to  that 
extremity  of  sorrow  and  despair  that  hastened  the  sad  catastrophe  of  his  tragical  and  miserable  life  ; 
and  there  it  was  that,  in  token  of  so  many  misfortunes,  he  desired  to  be  committed  to  the  bowels  of 
eternal  oblivion.”  Then  addressing  himself  to  Don  Quixote  and  the  rest  of  the  travellers — 

“ This  body,  gentlemen,”  said  he,  “ which  here  you  now  behold,  was  once  enlivened  by  a soul 
which  Heaven  had  enriched  with  the  greatest  part  of  its  most  valuable  graces.  This  is  the  body  of 
that  Chrysostome  who  was  unrivalled  in  wit,  matchless  in  courteousness,  incomparable  in  gracefulness, 
a phoenix  in  friendship,  generous  and  magnificent  without  ostentation,  prudent  and  grave  without 
pride,  modest  without  affectation,  pleasant  and  complaisant  without  meanness  ; in  a word,  the  first 
in  every  estimable  qualification,  and  second  to  none  in  misfortune  : he  loved  well,  and  was  hated  ; 
he  adored,  and  was  disdained  ; he  begged  pity  of  cruelty  itself ; he  strove  to  move  obdurate 
marble  ; pursued  the  wind  ; made  his  moans  to  solitary  deserts  ; was  constant  to  ingratitude  ; and 
for  the  recompense  of  his  fidelity,  became  a prey  to  death  in  the  flower  of  his  age,  through  the 
barbarity  of  a shepherdess,  whom  he  strove  to  immortalise  by  his  verse  ; as  these  papers  which 
are  here  deposited  might  testify,  had  he  not  commanded  me  to  sacrifice  them  to  the  flames,  at  the 
same  time  that  his  body  was  committed  to  the  earth.” 

“ Should  you  do  so,”  cried  Vivaldo,  “ you  would  appear  more  cruel  to  them  than  their 
exasperated,  unhappy  parent.  Consider,  sir,  ’tis  not  consistent  with  discretion,  nor  even  with 


So 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


justice,  so  nicely  to  perform  the  request  of  the  dead,  when  ' tis  repugnant  to  reason.  Augustus 
Caesar  himself  would  have  forfeited  his  title  to  wisdom,  had  he  permitted  that  to  have  been  effected 
which  the  divine  Virgil  had  ordered  by  his  will.  Therefore,  sir,  now  that  you  resign  your  friend’s 
body  to  the  grave,  do  not  hurry  thus  the  noble  and  only  remains  of  that  dear  unhappy  man  to  a 
worse  fate,  the  death  of  oblivion.  What  though  he  has  doomed  them  to  perish  in  the  height  of  his 
resentment,  you  ought  not  indiscreetly  to  be  their  executioner ; but  rather  reprieve  and  redeem  them 
from  eternal  silence,  that  they  may  live,  and,  flying  through  the  world,  transmit  to  all  ages  the  dismal 
story  of  your  friend’s  virtue  and  Marcella’s  ingratitude,  as  a warning  to  others,  that  they  may  avoid 
such  tempting  snares  and  enchanting  destructions  ; for  not  only  to  me,  but  to  all  here  present,  is 
well  known  the  history  of  your  enamoured  and  desperate  friend  : we  are  no  strangers  to  the 
friendship  that  was  between  you,  as  also  to  Marcella’s  cruelty,  which  occasioned  his  death.  Last  night 
we  were  informed  that  he  was  to  be  buried  here  to-day  ; and  so,  moved  not  so  much  by  curiosity  as 
pity,  we  are  come  to  behold  with  our  eyes  that  which  gave  us  so  much  trouble  to  hear.  Therefore 
in  the  name  of  all  the  company,  like  me,  deeply  affected  with  a sense  of  Chrysostome’s  extraordinary 
merit,  and  his  unhappy  fate,  and  desirous  to  prevent  such  deplorable  disasters  for  the  future,  I beg 
that  you  will  permit  me  to  save  some  of  these  papers,  whatever  you  resolve  to  do  with  the  rest.” 

And  so,  without  waiting  for  an  answer,  he  stretched  out  his  arm,  and  took  out  those  papers 
which  lay  next  to  his  hand. 

“ Well,  sir,”  said  Ambrose,  “ you  have  found  a way  to  make  me  submit,  and  you  may  keep 
those  papers  ; but  for  the  rest,  nothing  shall  make  me  alter  my  resolution  of  burning  them.” 

Vivaldo  said  no  more  ; but  being  impatient  to  see  what  those  papers  were,  which  he  had 
rescued  from  the  flames,  he  opened  one  of  them  immediately,  and  read  the  title  of  it,  which  was, 
“ The  Despairing  Lover.” 

“ That,”  said  Ambrose,  “ was  the  last  piece  my  dear  friend  ever  wrote  ; and  therefore,  that  you 
may  all  hear  to  what  a sad  condition  his  unhappy  passion  had  reduced  him,  read  it  aloud,  I beseech 
you,  sir,  while  the  grave  is  making.” 

“ With  all  my  heart,”  replied  Vivaldo  : and  so  the  company,  having  the  same  desire,  presently 
gathered  round  about  him,  and  he  read  the  following  lines. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

THE  UNFORTUNATE  SHEPHERD’S  VERSES,  AND  OTHER  UNEXPECTED  MATTERS. 


THE  DESPAIRING  LOVER. 


J^ELENTLESS  tyrant  of  my  heart, 
Attend,  and  hear  thy  slave  impart 
The  matchless  story  of  his  pain. 
In  vain  I labour  to  conceal 
What  my  extorted  groans  reveal  ; 

Who  can  be  rack’d,  and  not  complain? 

But,  oh  ! who  duly  can  express 
Thy  cruelty,  and  my  distress  ? 

No  human  heart,  no  human  tongue. 
Then  fiends  assist,  and  rage  infuse  ! 

A raving  fury  be  my  muse, 

And  Pluto  teach  the  dismal  song! 

Though  still  I moan  in  dreary  caves, 

To  desert  rocks  and  silent  graves 

My  loud  complaints  shall  winder  far  ; 
Borne  by  the  winds  they  shall  survive, 

By  pitying  echoes  kept  alive. 

And  fill  the  world  with  my  despair. 

11 


Love’s  deadly  cure  is  fierce  disdain. 
Distracting  fear  a dreadful  pain, 

And  jealousy  a matchless  woe  ; 

Absence  is  death  ; yet  while  it  kills, 

I live  with  all  these  mortal  ills, 

Scorn’d,  jealous,  loath’d,  and  absent,  too. 

No  dawn  of  hope  e’er  cheer’d  my  heart, 

No  pitying  ray  e’er  sooth’d  my  smart ; 

All,  all  the  sweets  of  life  are  gone  ! 

Then  come  despair,  and  frantic  rage, 

With  instant  fate  my  pain  assuage, 

And  end  a thousand  deaths  by  one. 

But  even  in  death  let  love  be  crown’d, 

My  fair  destruction  guiltless  found, 

And  I be  thought  with  justice  scorn’d; 
Thus  let  me  fall  unloved,  unbless’d, 

With  all  my  load  of  woes  oppress’d, 

And  even  too  wretched  to  be  mourn’d. 


82 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Oh  ! thou  by  whose  destructive  hate 
I’m  hurried  to  this  doleful  fate, 

When  I’m  no  more,  thy  pity  spare  ! 

I dread  thy  tears  ; oh  ! spare  them,  then — 
But,  oh  : I rave,  I was  too  vain  ; 

My  death  can  never  cost  a tear. 


And  thou,  my  song,  sad  child  of  woe, 
When  life  is  gone,  and  I’m  below, 

For  thy  lost  parent  cease  to  grieve. 
With  life  and  thee  my  woes  increase, 
And  should  they  not  by  dying  cease. 
There  are  no  pains  like  those  I leave. 


These  verses  were  well  approved  by  all  the  company ; only  Vivaldo  observed,  that  the 
jealousies  and  fears  of  which  the  shepherd  complained  did  not  very  well  agree  with  what  he  had 
heard  of  Marcella’s  unspotted  modesty  and  reservedness.  But  Ambrose,  who  had  been  always 
privy  to  the  most  secret  thoughts  of  his  friend,  informed  him  that  the  unhappy  Chrysostome  wrote 
those  verses  when  he  had  torn  himself  from  his  adored  mistress,  to  try  whether  absence,  the  common 
cure  of  love,  would  relieve  him,  and  mitigate  his  pain.  And  as  everything  disturbs  an  absent 
lover,  so  did  Chrysostome  perplex  himself  with  jealousies  and  suspicions,  which  had  no  ground 
but  in  his  distracted  imagination  ; and  therefore  whatever  he  said  in  those  uneasy  circumstances 
could  never  affect,  or  in  the  least  prejudice,  Marcella’s  virtuous  character,  upon  whom,  setting  aside 
her  cruelty,  and  her  disdainful  haughtiness,  envy  itself  could  never  fix  the  least  reproach.  Vivaldo 
being  thus  convinced,  they  were  going  to  read  another  paper,  when  they  were  unexpectedly 
prevented  by  a kind  of  apparition  that  offered  itself  to  their  view. 

It  was  Marcella  herself,  who  appeared  at  the  top  of  the  rock,  at  the  foot  of  which  they  were 
digging  the  grave;  but  so  beautiful,  that  fame  seemed  rather  to  have  lessened  than  to  have  magnified 
her  charms  : those  who  had  never  seen  her  before,  gazed  on  her  with  silent  wonder  and  delight  ; nay, 
those  who  used  to  see  her  every  day  seemed  no  less  lost  in  admiration  than  the  rest. 

But  scarce  had  Ambrose  spied  her,  when,  with  anger  and  indignation  in  his  heart,  he  cried  out — 

“ What  makest  thou  there,  thou  fierce,  thou  cruel  basilisk  of  these  mountains  ? comest  thou  to 
see  whether  the  wounds  of  this  murdered  wretch  will  bleed  afresh  at  thy  presence  ? or  comest  thou, 
thus  mounted  aloft,  to  glory  in  the  fatal  effects  of  thy  native  inhumanity,  like  another  Nero  at  the 
sight  of  flaming  Rome  ? or  is  it  to  trample  on  this  unfortunate  corpse,  as  Tarquin’s  ungrateful 
daughter  did  her  father’s?  Tell  us  quickly  why  thou  comest,  and  what  thou  yet  desirest  ? for 
since  I know  that  Chrysostome’s  whole  study  was  to  serve  and  please  thee  while  he  lived,  I am 
willing  to  dispose  all  his  friends  to  pay  thee  the  like  obedience  now  he  is  dead.” 

“ I came  not  here  to  any  of  those  ungrateful  ends,  Ambrose,”  replied  Marcella  ; “ but 
only  to  clear  my  innocence,  and  show  the  injustice  of  all  those  who  lay  their  misfortunes  and 
Chrysostome’s  death  to  my  charge  : therefore,  I entreat  you  all  who  are  here  at  this  time 
to  hear  me  a little.  Heaven,  you  are  pleased  to  say,  has  made  me  beautiful,  and  that 
to  such  a degree,  that  you  are  forced,  nay,  as  it  were,  compelled  to  love  me,  in  spite  of  your 
endeavours  to  the  contrary  : and  for  the  sake  of  that  love,  you  say,  I ought  to  love  you  again. 
Now,  though  I am  sensible  that  whatever  is  beautiful  is  lovely,  I cannot  conceive  that  what  is 
loved  for  being  handsome  should  be  bound  to  love  that  by  which  it  is  loved,  merely  because  it 
is  loved.  He  that  loves  a beautiful  object  may  happen  to  be  ugly ; and  as  what  is  ugly 
deserves  not  to  be  loved,  it  would  be  ridiculous  to  say,  ‘ I love  you  because  you  are  handsome, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


83 

and  therefore  you  must  love  me  again,  though  I am  ugly.’  But  suppose  two  persons  of  different  sexes 
are  equally  handsome,  it  does  not  follow  that  their  desires  should  be  alike  and  reciprocal ; for  all 
beauties  do  not  kindle  love ; some  only  recreate  the  sight,  and  never  reach  or  captivate  the  heart. 
Alas!  if  whatever  is  beautiful  were  to  beget  love  and  enslave  the  mind,  mankind’s  desires  would  ever 
run  confused  and  wandering,  without  being  able  to  fix  their  determinate  choice  ; for  as  there  is  an 
infinite  number  of  beautiful  objects,  the  desires  would  consequently  be  also  infinite  ; whereas,  on  the 
contrary,  I have  heard  that  true  love  is  still  confined  to  one,  and  must  be  voluntary  and  unforced. 
This  being  granted,  why  would  you  have  me  force  my  inclinations  for  no  other  reason  but  that 
you  say  you  love  me  ? Tell  me,  I beseech  you,  had  Heaven  formed  me  as  ugly  as  it  has 
made  me  beautiful,  could  I justly  complain  of  you  for  not  loving  me  ? Pray  consider  also, 
that  I do  not  possess  those  charms  by  choice  ; such  as  they  are,  they  were  freely  bestowed  on 
me  by  Heaven  : and  as  the  viper  is  not  to  be  blamed  for  the  poison  with  which  she  kills,  seeing 
it  was  assigned  her  by  Nature,  so  I ought  not  to  be  censured  for  that  beauty  which  I derive 
from  the  same  cause ; for  beauty  in  a virtuous  woman  is  like  a distant  flame,  or  a sharp- 
edged  sword,  and  only  burns  and  wounds  those  who  approach  too  near  it.  Honour  and  virtue 
are  the  ornaments  of  the  soul,  and  that  body  that  is  destitute  of  them  cannot  be  esteemed  beauti- 
ful, though  it  be  naturally  so.  If,  then,  honour  be  one  of  those  endowments  which  most  adorn 
the  body,  why  should  she  that  is  beloved  for  her  beauty  expose  herself  to  the  loss  of  it  ? I was 
born  free,  and,  that  I might  continue  so,  I retired  to  these  solitary  hills  and  plains,  where  trees  are 
my  companions,  and  clear  fountains  my  looking-glasses.  To  the  trees  and  to  the  waters  I com- 
municate my  thoughts  and  my  beauty.  I am  a distant  flame,  and  a sword  far  off  : those  whom 

the  sight  of  me  has  enamoured,  I have  undeceived  with  my  words  ; and  as  I never  gave  any 
encouragement  to  Chrysostome,  nor  to  any  other,  it  may  well  be  said  it  was  rather  his  own 
obstinacy  than  my  cruelty  that  shortened  his  life.  If  you  tell  me  that  his  intentions  were 
honest,  and  therefore  ought  to  have  been  complied  with,  I answer,  that  when,  at  the  very  place 
where  his  grave  is  making,  he  discovered  his  passion,  I told  him  I was  resolved  to  live  and  die 
single,  and  that  the  earth  alone  should  reap  the  fruit  of  my  reservedness,  and  enjoy  the  spoils  of  my 
beauty  ; and  if,  after  all  the  admonitions  I gave  him,  he  would  persist  in  his  obstinate  pursuit,  and 
sail  against  the  wind,  what  wonder  is  it  he  should  perish  in  the  waves  of  his  indiscretion  ? Had  I 
ever  encouraged  him,  or  amused  him  with  ambiguous  words,  then  I had  been  false  ; and  had  I 
gratified  his  wishes,  I had  acted  contrary  to  my  better  resolves  : he  persisted,  though  I had  given 
him  a due  caution,  and  he  despaired  without  being  hated.  Now  I leave  you  to  judge  whether  I 
ought  to  be  blamed  for  his  sufferings.  If  I have  deceived  any  one,  let  him  complain  ; if  I have 
broke  my  promise  to  any  one,  let  him  despair  ; if  I encourage  any  one,  let  him  presume  ; if  I 

entertain  any  one,  let  him  boast  : but  let  no  man  call  me  cruel  or  murderess,  until  I either  deceive, 

break  my  promise,  encourage,  or  entertain  him.  Heaven  has  not  yet  been  pleased  to  show  whether 
it  is  its  will  I should  love  by  destiny;  and  it  is  vain  to  think  I will  ever  do  it  by  choice:  so  let  this 
general  caution  serve  every  one  of  those  who  make  their  addresses  to  me  for  their  own  ends.  And 


84 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


if  any  one  hereafter  dies  on  my  account,  let  not  their  jealousy,  nor  my  scorn  or  hate,  be  thought  the 
cause  of  their  death  ; for  she  who  never  pretended  to  love  cannot  make  any  one  jealous,  and  a free 
and  generous  declaration  of  our  fixed  resolution  ought  not  to  be  counted  hate  or  disdain.  In  short, 
let  him  that  calls  me  a tigress,  and  a basilisk,  avoid  me  as  a dangerous  thing  ; and  let  him  that  calls 
me  ungrateful,  give  over  serving  me  : I assure  them  I will  never  seek  nor  pursue  them.  Therefore 
let  none  hereafter  make  it  their  business  to  disturb  my  ease,  nor  strive  to  make  me  hazard  among 
men  the  peace  I now  enjoy,  which  I am  persuaded  is  not  to  be  found  with  them.  I have 
wealth  enough  ; I neither  love  nor  hate  any  one  : the  innocent  conversation  of  the  neighbouring 
shepherdesses,  and  the  care  of  my  flocks,  help  me  to  pass  away  my  time,  without  either  coquetting 
with  this  man  or  practising  arts  to  ensnare  that  other.  My  thoughts  are  limited  by  these  mountains; 
and  if  they  wander  further,  it  is  only  to  admire  the  beauty  of  heaven,  and  thus  by  steps  to  raise  my 
soul  towards  her  original  dwelling;.” 

As  soon  as  she  had  said  this,  without  staying  for  any  answer,  she  left  the  place,  and  ran  into  the 
thickest  of  the  adjoining  wood,  leaving  all  that  heard  her  charmed  with  her  discretion  as  well  as  with 
her  beauty.  However,  so  prevalent  were  the  charms  of  the  latter,  that  some  of  the  company,  who 
were  desperately  struck,  could  not  forbear  offering  to  follow  her,  without  being  the  least  deterred 
by  the  solemn  protestations  which  they  had  heard  her  make  that  very  moment.  But  Don  Quixote 
perceiving  their  design,  and  believing  he  had  now  a fit  opportunity  to  exert  his  knight-errantry  : 

“ Let  no  man,”  cried  he,  “ of  what  quality  or  condition  soever,  presume  to  follow  the  fair 
Marcella,  under  the  penalty  of  incurring  my  furious  displeasure.  She  has  made  it  appear,  by 
undeniable  reasons,  that  she  was  not  guilty  of  Chrysostome’s  death  ; and  has  positively  declared  her 
firm  resolution  never  to  condescend  to  the  desires  of  any  of  her  admirers ; for  which  reason,  instead 
of  being  importuned  and  persecuted,  she  ought  to  be  esteemed  and  honoured  by  all  good  men,  as 
being  perhaps  the  only  woman  in  the  world  that  ever  lived  with  such  a virtuous  reservedness.” 

Now,  whether  it  were  that  Don  Quixote’s  threats  terrified  the  amorous  shepherds,  or  that 
Ambrose’s  persuasion  prevailed  with  them  to  stay  and  see  their  friend  interred,  none  of  the 
shepherds  left  the  place,  till  the  grave  being  made,  and  the  papers  burnt,  the  body  was  deposited 
into  the  bosom  of  the  earth,  not  without  many  tears  from  all  the  assistants.  They  covered  the 
grave  with  a great  stone,  till  a monument  was  made,  which  Ambrose  said  he  designed  to  have 
set  up  there,  with  the  following  epitaph  upon  it  : — 


CHRYSOSTOME’S 

Here  of  a wretched  swain 
The  frozen  body’s  laid, 

Kill’d  by  the  cold  disdain 
Of  an  ungrateful  maid. 


EPITAPH. 

Here  first  love’s  power  he  tried, 
Here  first  his  pains  express’d  ; 
Here  first  he  was  denied, 

Here  first  he  chose  to  resc. 


You  who  the  shepherd  mourn, 
From  coy  Marcella  fly  ; 

Who  Chrysostome  could  scorn, 
May  all  mankind  destroy. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


85 

The  shepherds  strewed  the  grave  with  many  flowers  and  boughs;  and  every  one  having 
condoled  a while  with  his  friend  Ambrose,  they  took  their  leave  of  him,  and  departed.  Vivaldo 
and  his  companion  did  the  like ; as  did  also  Don  Quixote,  who  was  not  a person  to  forget  himself 
on  such  occasions  : he  likewise  bid  adieu  to  the  kind  goatherds,  that  had  entertained  him,  and  to  the 
two  travellers  who  desired  him  to  go  with  them  to  Seville,  assuring  him  there  was  no  place  in 
the  world  more  fertile  in  adventures,  every  street  and  every  corner  there  producing  some. 

Don  Quixote  returned  them  thanks  for  their  kind  information;  but  told  them,  “he  neither  would 
nor  ought  to  go  to  Seville,  till  he  had  cleared  all  those  mountains  of  the  thieves  and  robbers  which 
he  heard  very  much  infested  all  those  parts.” 

Thereupon  the  travellers,  being  unwilling  to  divert  him  from  so  good  a design,  took  their  leaves 
of  him  once  more,  and  pursued  their  journey,  sufficiently  supplied  with  matter  to  discourse  on, 
from  the  story  of  Marcella  and  Chrysostome,  and  Don  Quixote’s  follies.  As  for  him,  he  resolved  to 
find  out  the  shepherdess  Marcella,  if  possible,  to  offer  her  his  service  to  protect  her  to  the  utmost 
of  his  power  : but  he  happened  to  be  crossed  in  his  designs,  as  you  shall  hear  in  the  sequel  of 
this  true  history. 


. 5 >:\.v . 


A mondow  watered  with  a rivulet,  invited  them  to  alight.” — p • 87- 


CHAPTER  XV. 

GIVING  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  DON  QUIXOTE’S  UNFORTUNATE  RENCOUNTER  WITH  CERTAIN  BLOODY-MINDED 

AND  WICKED  YANGUESIAN  CARRIERS. 

THE  sage  Cid  Hamet  Benengeli  relates,  that  when  Don  Quixote  had  taken  leave  of  all  those 
that  were  at  Chrysostome’s  funeral,  he  and  his  squire  went  after  Marcella  into  the  wood  ; 
and  having  ranged  it  above  two  hours  without  being  able  to  find  her,  they  came  at  last  to  a meadow, 
whose  springing  green,  watered  with  a delightful  and  refreshing  rivulet,  invited,  or  rather  pleasantly 
forced  them,  to  alight  and  give  way  to  the  heat  of  the  day,  which  began  to  be  very  violent  : so 
leaving  the  ass  and  Rozinante  to  graze  at  large,  they  ransacked  the  wallet,  and  without  ceremony 
the  master  and  the  man  fell  to,  and  fed  lovingly  on  what  they  found. 

Now  Sancho  had  not  taken  care  to  tie  up  Rozinante,  knowing  him  to  be  a horse  of  great 
sobriety.  But  fortune  so  ordered  it,  that  a good  number  of  Galician  mares,  belonging  to  some 
Yanguesian  carriers,  were  then  feeding  in  the  same  valley ; it  being  the  custom  of  those  men,  about 
the  hottest  time  of  the  day,  to  stop  wherever  they  met  with  grass  and  water,  to  refresh  their  cattle ; 
nor  could  they  have  found  a fitter  place  than  that  where  Don  Quixote  was. 

Now  Rozinante  was  all  of  a sudden  taken  with  a fancy  for  going  to  flirt  with  the  mares;  so, 
forsaking  his  natural  gravity  and  reservedness,  and  without  asking  his  master’s  leave,  away  he  trots 
it  briskly  to  them  : but  they,  who  it  seems  had  more  mind  to  feed  than  to  be  merry,  received  him  so 
rudely,  with  their  heels  and  teeth,  that  in  a trice  they  broke  his  girths  and  threw  down  his  saddle,  and 
left  him  disrobed  of  all  his  equipage.  And  for  an  addition  to  his  misery,  the  carriers  perceiving  the 
violence  that  was  offered  to  their  mares,  flew  to  their  relief  with  poles  and  pack-staves,  and  so  be- 
laboured poor  Rozinante,  that  he  soon  sunk  to  the  ground  under  the  weight  of  their  unmerciful  blows. 

Don  Quixote  and  Sancho,  perceiving  at  a distance  the  ill-usage  of  Rozinante,  ran  with  all  speed 
to  his  rescue  ; and  as  they  came  near  the  place,  panting,  and  almost  out  of  breath — 

“ Friend  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “I  perceive  these  are  no  knights,  but  only  a pack  of 
scoundrels,  and  fellows  of  the  lowest  rank.  I tell  thee  this,  because  thou  mayest  lawfully  help  me  to 
revenge  the  injury  they  have  done  Rozinante  before  our  faces.” 


88 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ What  are  you  saying  about  revenge  ? quoth  Sancho  ; “ we  are  likely  to  revenge  ourselves 
finely ! you  see  they  are  above  twenty,  and  we  are  but  two ; nay,  perhaps  but  one  and  a half. 

“ I alone  am  worth  a hundred,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; and  then,  without  any  more  words,  he 

drew  his  sword,  and  flew  upon  the  \ anguesians. 

Sancho,  encouraged  by  his  master’s  example,  did  the  like ; and  with  the  first  blow  which  Don 
Quixote  gave  one  of  them,  he  cut  through  his  leathern  doublet,  and  gave  him  a deep  slash  in  the 

shoulder. 

The  Yanguesians,  seeing  themselves  thus  rudely  handled  by  two  men  only,  betook  themselves 
to  their  levers  and  pack-staves,  and  then  all  at  once  surrounding  the  valiant  knight  and  his  trusty 
squire,  they  charged  them  and  laid  on  with  great  fury.  At  the  second  round,  they  brought  poor 
Sancho  to  the  ground,  and  then  Don  Quixote  himself,  who,  as  chance  would  have  it,  fell  at  the 
feet  of  Rozinante,  that  had  not  yet  recovered  his  legs  ; whence  we  may  learn  how  unmercifully 
pack-staves  will  bruise,  when  in  rustic  and  wrathful  hands. 

The  Yanguesians,  fearing  the  ill  consequences  of  the  mischief  they  had  done,  made  all  the  haste 
they  could  to  be  gone,  leaving  our  two  adventurers  in  a woful  condition. 

The  first  that  recovered  his  senses  was  Sancho  Panza,  who,  finding  himself  near  his  master, 
called  to  him  thus,  with  a weak  and  doleful  voice  : 

“ Ah,  master  ! master  ! Sir,  Sir  Knight ! ” 

“ What  is  the  matter,  friend  Sancho?”  asked  the  knight,  in  the  same  feeble  and  lamenting  tone. 

“ I could  wish,”  replied  Sancho,  “that  your  worship  would  help  me  to  two  good  draughts  of  the 
liquor  you  talk  of,  if  you  have  any  by  you  ; perhaps  it  is  as  good  to  cure  broken  bones  as  it  is  to 
heal  outward  wounds.” 

“ Oh ! that  I had  some  of  it  here  now,”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ we  could  not  then  be  said  to 
want  anything : but  I swear  to  thee,  honest  Sancho,  by  the  faith  of  a knight-errant,  that  within  these 
two  days  (if  no  other  disaster  prevent  me)  I will  have  some  of  it  at  my  disposal,  or  I shall  have  lost 
the  use  of  my  hands.” 

“ Two  days,  sir ! ” replied  Sancho  : “ why,  pray  how  many  days  do  you  think  it  will  be  before 
we  are  able  to  stir  our  feet  ? ” 

« As  for  myself,”  answered  the  bruised  Don  Quixote,  “ I must  own  I could  not  exactly 
state  how  many.  But  it  is  I who  am  the  fatal  cause  of  all  this  mischief , I ought  not  to 
have  drawn  my  sword  against  a company  of  fellows,  upon  whom  the  honour  of  knighthood  was 
never  conferred  ; and  I do  not  doubt  but  that  the  Lord  of  hosts  suffered  this  punishment  to  befal 
me  for  transgressing  thus  the  laws  of  chivalry.  Therefore,  friend  Sancho,  observe  what  I am  going 
to  tell  thee,  for  it  is  a thing  that  highly  concerns  the  welfare  of  us  both ; it  is  that  for  the  future, 
whenever  thou  perceivest  us  to  be  any  ways  abused  by  such  inferior  fellows,  thou  art  not  to  expect 
I should  offer  to  draw  my  sword  against  them  ; for  I will  not  do  it  in  the  least . no,  do  thou  then 
draw  and  chastise  them  as  thou  thinkest  fit ; but  if  any  knights  come  to  take  their  parts,  then  will 
I be  sure  to  step  between  thee  and  danger,  and  assault  them  with  the  utmost  vigour  and  intrepidity. 


12 


The  Yanguesians  betook  themselves  to  their  levers  and  pack-staves.” —p.  88. 


90 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Thou  hast  already  had  a thousand  proofs  of  the  greatness  of  my  valour,  and  the  prevailing  strength 
of  my  most  dreadful  arm.”  So  arrogant  the  knight  was  grown  since  his  victory  over  the  bold 
Biscayan. 

But  Sancho  was  not  so  well  pleased  with  his  master’s  admonitions,  as  to  forbear  answering. 
“ Sir,”  says  he,  “ I am  a peaceful  man,  a harmless,  quiet  fellow,  d’ye  see  ; I can  make  shift  to  pass 
by  an  injury  as  well  as  any  man,  as  having  a wife  to  maintain,  and  children  to  bring  up  ; and 
therefore  pray  take  this  from  me  by  the  way  of  advice  (for  I will  not  offer  to  command  my 
master),  that  I will  not  in  any  wise  draw  my  sword  neither  against  knight  nor  clown,  not  I ; and 
that,  from  this  time  forward,  I freely  forgive  all  mankind,  high  and  low,  rich  and  poor,  lords  and 
beggars,  whatever  wrongs  they  ever  did  or  may  do  me,  without  the  least  exception.” 

“ Sancho,”  said  his  master,  hearing  this,  “ I heartily  wish  I had  breath  enough  to  answer  thee 
effectually,  or  that  the  pain  which  I feel  in  one  of  my  short  ribs  would  leave  me  but  for  so  long  as 
might  serve  to  convince  thee  of  thy  error.  Come,  suppose,  thou  silly  wretch,  that  the  gale  of 
fortune,  which  has  hitherto  been  so  contrary  to  us,  should  at  last  turn  favourable,  swelling  the  sails  of 
our  desires,  so  that  we  might  with  as  much  security  as  ease  arrive  at  some  of  those  islands  which  I 
have  promised  thee  ; what  would  become  of  thee,  if,  after  I had  conquered  one  of  them,  I were  to 
make  thee  lord  of  it  ? Thou  wouldst  certainly  be  found  not  duly  qualified  for  that  dignity,  as 
having  abjured  all  knighthood,  all  thoughts  of  honour,  and  all  intention  to  revenge  injuries,  and 
defend  thy  own  dominions.  For  thou  must  understand,  that  in  kingdoms  and  provinces  newly 
conquered,  the  hearts  and  minds  of  the  inhabitants  are  never  so  thoroughly  subdued,  or  wedded  to 
the  interests  of  their  new  sovereign,  but  that  there  is  reason  to  fear  they  will  endeavour  to  raise 
some  commotions  to  change  the  face  of  affairs,  and,  as  men  say,  once  more  try  their  fortune. 
Therefore  it  is  necessary  that  the  new  possessor  have  not  only  understanding  to  govern,  but  also 
valour  to  attack  his  enemies,  and  defend  himself  on  all  occasions.” 

“ I would  I had  had  that  valour  and  understanding  you  talk  of,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ in  this  that 
hath  now  befallen  us  ; but  now,  sir,  I must  be  free  to  tell  you,  I have  more  need  of  a surgeon  than 
of  a preacher.  Pray  try  whether  you  can  rise,  and  we  will  help  Rozinante,  though  he  does  not 
deserve  it ; for  he  is  the  chief  cause  of  all  this  beating.  For  my  part,  I could  never  have  believed 
the  like  of  him.  In  short,  it  is  a true  saying,  that  ‘a  man  must  eat  a peck  of  salt  with  his  friend, 
before  he  knows  him ; ’ and  that  ‘ there  is  nothing  sure  in  this  world  : ’ for  who  would  have 
thought,  after  the  dreadful  slashes  you  gave  to  that  knight-errant,  such  a terrible  tempest  of 
pack-staves  would  so  soon  have  fallen  upon  our  shoulders  ? ” 

“ As  for  thine,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ I expect  they  are  used  to  endure  such  sort  of  tempests ; 
but  mine,  that  were  nursed  in  soft  linen,  will  most  certainly  be  longer  sensible  of  this  misfortune  ; 
and  were  it  not  that  I imagine — (but  why  do  I say  imagine  ?) — were  it  not  that  I am  positively  sure 
that  all  these  inconveniences  are  inseparable  from  the  profession  of  chivalry,  I would  abandon 
myself  to  grief,  and  die  of  mere  despair  on  this  very  spot.” 

“ I beseech  you,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ since  these  rubs  are  the  veils  of  your  trade  of  knighthood, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


9T 

tell  me  whether  they  are  to  come  often,  or  whether  we  may  look  for  them  at  set  times  ? for,  I fancy, 
if  we  meet  but  with  two  such  harvests,  we  shall  never  be  able  to  reap  a third,  unless  God,  of  his 
infinite  mercy,  assist  us.” 

“ Know,  friend  Sancho,”  returned  Don  Quixote,  “ that  the  lives  of  knights-errant  are  subject  to  a 
thousand  hazards  and  misfortunes  : but  on  the  other  side,  they  may  at  any  time  suddenly  become 
kings  and  emperors,  as  experience  has  demonstrated  in  many  knights,  of  whose  histories  I have  a 
perfect  knowledge.  Thus  I may  well  bear  my  misfortune  patiently,  since  those  which  so  many 
greater  persons  have  endured  may  be  said  to  outdo  it : for  I would  have  thee  know,  that  these 
wounds  that  are  given  with  the  instruments  and  tools  which  a man  happens  to  have  in  his  hand,  do 
not  really  disgrace  the  person  struck.  We  read  expressly  in  the  laws  of  duels,  ‘ That  if  a shoe- 
maker strike  another  man  with  his  last  which  he  held  in  his  hand,  though  it  be  of  wood,  as  a cudgel 
is,  yet  the  party  who  was  struck  with  it  shall  not  be  said  to  have  been  cudgelled.’  I tell  thee  this, 
that  thou  mayest  not  think  we  are  in  the  least  dishonoured,  though  we  have  been  horribly  beaten  in 
this  encounter  ; for  the  weapons  which  those  men  used  were  but  instruments  of  their  profession, 
and  not  one  of  them,  as  I very  well  remember,  had  either  tuck,  or  sword,  or  dagger.” 

“ They  gave  me  no  leisure,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ to  examine  things  so  narrowly  ; for  I had  no 
sooner  drawn  my  cutlass,  than  they  crossed  my  shoulders  with  such  a wooden  blessing,  as 
settled  me  on  the  ground  without  sense  or  motion,  where  you  see  me  now  lying,  and  where  I 
don’t  trouble  my  head  whether  it  be  a disgrace  to  be  mauled  with  cudgels  or  with  pack-staves  ; 
let  them  be  what  they  will,  I am  only  vexed  to  feel  them  so  heavy  on  my  shoulders,  where 
I am  afraid  they  are  imprinted  as  deep  as  they  are  on  my  mind.” 

“ For  all  this,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ I must  inform  thee,  friend  Sancho,  that  there  is  no 
remembrance  which  time  will  not  efface,  nor  no  pain  to  which  death  will  not  put  a period.” 

“ Thank  you  for  nothing  ! ” quoth  Sancho ; “ what  worse  can  befall  us,  than  to  have  only 
death  to  trust  to  ? Were  our  affliction  to  be  cured  with  a plaister  or  two,  a man  might  have  some 
patience ; but  for  aught  I see,  all  the  salves  in  an  hospital  won’t  set  us  on  our  best  legs  again.” 

“ Come,  no  more  of  this,”  cried  Don  Quixote ; “ take  courage,  and  make  a virtue  of  necessity ; 
for  it  is  what  I am  resolved  to  do.  Let  us  see  how  it  fares  with  Rozinante ; for  if  I am  not 
mistaken,  the  poor  creature  has  not  been  the  least  sufferer  in  this  adventure.” 

“No  wonder  at  that,”  quoth  Sancho,  “seeing  he’s  a knight-errant  too;  I rather  wonder  how 
my  ass  has  escaped  so  well,  while  we  have  fared  so  ill.” 

“ In  our  disasters,”  returned  Don  Quixote,  “fortune  leaves  always  some  door  open  to  come  at 
a remedy.  I say  it,  Sancho,  because  that  little  beast  may  now  supply  the  want  of  Rozinante,  to 
carry  me  to  some  castle  where  I may  get  cured.  Nor  do  I esteem  this  kind  of  riding  dishonourable, 
for  I remember  that  the  good  old  Silenus,  tutor  and  governor  to  the  jovial  god  of  wine,  rode  very 
fairly  on  a goodly  ass,  when  he  made  his  entry  into  the  city  with  a hundred  gates.” 

“ Ay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ it  will  do  well  enough,  could  you  ride  as  fairly  on  your  ass  as  he  did  on 
his ; but  there  is  a deal  of  difference  between  riding  and  being  laid  across  the  pummel  like  a sack.  ” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


93 


“ The  wounds  which  are  received  in  combat,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ rather  add  to  our  honour 
than  deprive  us  of  it ; therefore,  good  Sancho,  trouble  me  with  no  more  replies,  but,  as  I said, 
endeavour  to  get  up,  and  lay  me  as  thou  pleasest  upon  thy  ass.” 

“ But,  sir,”  cried  Sancho,  “ I have  heard  you  say  that  it  is  a common  thing  among  you  knights- 
errant  to  sleep  in  the  fields  and  deserts  the  best  part  of  the  year,  and  that  you  look  upon  it  to  be  a 
very  happy  kind  of  life.” 

“ That  is  to  say,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ when  we  can  do  no  better,  or  when  we  are  in  love  ; and 
this  is  so  true,  that  there  have  been  knights  who  have  dwelt  on  rocks,  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  other 
inclemencies  of  the  sky,  for  the  space  of  two  years,  without  their  lady’s  knowledge.  But  setting 
these  discourses  aside,  pr’ythee  dispatch,  lest  some  mischief  befall  the  ass,  as  it  has  done  Rozinante.” 

“ That  would  be  a calamity  indeed,”  replied  Sancho  ; and  so,  breathing  out  some  thirty  lamenta- 
tions, threescore  sighs,  and  a hundred  and  twenty  plagues  on  those  that  had  decoyed  him  thither, 
he  at  last  got  upon  his  legs,  yet  not  so  but  that  he  went  stooping,  with  his  body  bent  like  a Turk’s 
bow,  not  being  able  to  stand  upright.  Yet  in  this  crooked  posture  he  made  a shift  to  harness  his 
ass.  After  this,  he  helped  up  Rozinante,  who,  could  his  tongue  have  expressed  his  sorrows,  would 
certainly  not  have  been  outdone  by  Sancho  and  his  master.  After  many  bitter  “ Oh’s  ! ” and 
screwed  faces,  Sancho  laid  Don  Quixote  on  the  ass,  tied  Rozinante  to  its  tail,  and  then,  leading  the 
ass  by  the  halter,  he  took  the  nearest  way  that  he  could  guess  to  the  high  road ; to  which  he  luckily 
came,  before  he  had  travelled  a short  league,  and  then  he  discovered  an  inn;  which,  in  spite  of  all 
he  could  say,  Don  Quixote  was  pleased  to  mistake  for  a castle.  Sancho  swore  it  was  an  inn,  and 
his  master  was  as  positive  of  the  contrary.  In  short,  their  dispute  lasted  so  long,  that  before  they 
could  decide  it  they  reached  the  inn  door,  where  Sancho  straight  went  in,  with  all  his  train,  without 
troubling  himself  any  farther  about  the  matter. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  IN  THE  INN  WHICH  HE  TOOK  FOR  A CASTLE. 

THE  innkeeper,  seeing  Don  Quixote  lying  quite  athwart  the  ass,  asked  Sancho  what  ailed 
him  ? Sancho  answered  it  was  nothing,  only  his  master  had  got  a fall  from  the  top  of  a rock 
to  the  bottom,  and  had  bruised  his  sides  a little.  The  innkeeper  had  a wife,  very  different  from  the 
common  sort  of  hostesses,  for  she  was  of  a charitable  nature,  and  very  compassionate  of  her  neigh- 
bours’ affliction  ; which  made  her  immediately  take  care  of  Don  Quixote,  and  call  her  daughter  (a 
good,  handsome  girl)  to  set  her  helping  hand  to  his  cure.  One  of  the  servants  in  the  inn  was 
In  Asturian  girl,  a broad-faced,  fiat-headed,  saddle-nosed  dowdy;  blind  of  one  eye,  and  the 
other  almost  out : however,  the  activity  of  her  body  supplied  all  other  defects.  She  was  not 
above  three  feet  high  from  her  heels  to  her  head  ; and  her  shoulders,  which  somewhat  loaded 
her,  as  having  too  much  flesh  upon  them,  made  her  look  downwards  oftener  than  she  could 
have  wished  This  charming  original  likewise  assisted  the  mistress  and  the  daughter,  and 
with  the  latter  helped  to  make  the  knight’s  bed,  and  a sorry  one  it  was;  the  room  where  it 
stood  was  an  old  cock-loft,  which  by  manifold  signs  seemed  to  have  been,  in  the  days  of  yore, 
a repository  for  chopped  straw.  Somewhat  farther,  in  a corner  of  that  garret,  a carrier  had  his 
lodging ; and  though  his  bed  was  nothing  but  the  pannels  and  coverings  of  his  mules,  it  was 
much  better  than  that  of  Don  Quixote,  which  only  consisted  of  four  rough-hewn  boards  laid 
upon  two  uneven  tressels,  a flock-bed  that,  for  thinness,  might  well  have  passed  for  a quilt,  and 
was  full  of  knobs  and  bunches,  which,  had  they  not  peeped  out  through  many  a hole,  and  shown 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


95 


themselves  to  be  of  wool,  might  well  have  been  taken  for  stones.  The  rest  of  that  extraordinary 
bed’s  furniture  was  a pair  of  sheets,  which  rather  seemed  to  be  of  leather  than  of  linen-cloth,  and  a 
coverlet  whose  every  individual  thread  you  might  have  told,  and  never  have  missed  one  in  the  tale. 

In  this  ungracious  bed  was  the  knight  laid,  to  rest  his  belaboured  carcase,  and  presently  the 
hostess  and  her  daughter  anointed  and  plaistered  him  all  over,  while  Maritornes  (for  that  was  the 
name  of  the  Asturian  girl)  held  the  candle.  The  hostess,  while  she  greased  him,  wondering  to 
see  him  so  bruised  all  over,  “ I fancy,”  said  she,  “ those  bumps  look  much  more  like  a dry  beating 
than  a fall.” 

“It  was  no  dry  beating,  mistress,  I promise  you,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  the  rock  had  I know  not 
how  many  cragged  ends  and  knobs,  whereof  every  one  gave  my  master  a token  of  his  kindness. 
And  by  the  way,  forsooth,”  continued  he,  “ I beseech  you  save  a little  of  that  same  tow  and  ointment 
for  me  too,  for  I don’t  know  what  is  the  matter  with  my  back,  but  I fancy  I stand  mainly  in  want  of 
a little  greasing-  too.” 

“ What ! I suppose  you  fell  too  ? ” quoth  the  landlady. 

“ Not  I,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  the  very  fright  that  I took  to  see  my  master  tumble  down  the 
rock,  has  so  wrought  upon  my  body,  that  I am  as  sore  as  if  I had  been  sadly  mauled.” 

“ It  may  well  be  as  you  say,”  cried  the  innkeeper’s  daughter ; “ for  I have  dreamed  several 
times  that  I have  been  falling  from  the  top  of  a high  tower  without  ever  coming  to  the  ground  ; and, 
when  I waked,  I have  found  myself  as  out  of  order,  and  as  bruised,  as  if  I had  fallen  in  good 
earnest.” 

“ That  is  e’en  my  case,  mistress,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ only  ill  luck  would  have  it  so,  that  I should 
find  myself  e’en  almost  as  battered  and  bruised  as  my  lord  Don  Quixote,  and  yet  all  the  while  be 
as  broad  awake  as  I am  now.” 

“ How  do  you  call  this  same  gentleman  ? ” quoth  Maritornes. 

“ He  is  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,”  replied  Sancho  ; “ and  he  is  a knight-errant,  and  one  of  the 
primest  and  stoutest  that  ever  the  sun  shone  on.” 

“ A knight-errant ! ” cried  the  girl ; “ pray  what  is  that  ? 

“ Heigh-day  ! ” cried  Sancho,  “ does  she  know  no  more  of  the  world  than  that  comes  to  ? 
Why,  a knight-errant  is  a thing  which  in  two  words  you  see  well  cudgelled,  and  then  an  emperor. 
To-day  there  is  not  a more  wretched  thing  upon  the  earth,  and  yet  to-morrow  he’ll  have  two  or 
three  kingdoms  to  give  away  to  his  squire.” 

“ How  comes  it  to  pass,  then,”  quoth  the  landlady,  “ that  thou,  who  art  this  great  person’s 
squire,  hast  not  yet  got  thee  at  least  an  earldom  ? ” 

“ Fair  and  softly  goes  far,”  replied  Sancho.  “ Why,  we  have  not  been  a month  in  our  gears, 
•so  that  we  have  not  yet  encountered  any  adventure  worth  the  naming  : besides,  many  a time  we 
•look  for  one  thing,  and  light  on  another.  But  if  my  lord  Don  Quixote  happens  to  get  well  again, 
and  I escape  remaining  a cripple,  I’ll  not  take  the  best  title  in  the  land  for  what  I am  sure  will  fail 
to  m^  share.” 


96 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Here  Don  Quixote,  who  had  listened  with  great  attention  to  all  these  discourses,  raised 
himself  up  in  his  bed  with  much  ado,  and  taking  the  hostess  in  a most  obliging  manner  by  the 
hand — 

“ Believe  me,”  said  he,  “ beautiful  lady,  you  may  well  esteem  it  a happiness  that  you  have  now 
the  opportunity  to  entertain  my  person  in  your  castle.  Self-praise  is  unworthy  a man  of  honour,  and 
therefore  I shall  say  no  more  of  myself,  but  my  squire  will  inform  you  who  I am  ; only  thus  much 
let  me  add,  that  I will  eternally  preserve  your  kindness  in  the  treasury  of  my  remembrance,  and 
study  all  occasions  to  testify  my  gratitude.  And  I wish,”  continued  he,  “ the  powers  above  had  so 
disposed  my  fate,  that  I were  not  already  love’s  devoted  slave,  and  captivated  by  the  charms  of  the 
disdainful  beauty  who  engrosses  all  my  softer  thoughts  ! for  then  would  I be  proud  to  sacrifice  my 
liberty  to  this  beautiful  damsel.” 

The  hostess,  her  daughter,  and  the  kind-hearted  Maritornes,  stared  at  one  another,  quite  at  a 
loss  for  the  meaning  of  this  high-flown  language,  which  they  understood  full  as  well  as  if  it  had  been 
Greek.  Yet,  conceiving  these  were  words  of  compliment  and  courtship,  they  looked  upon  him  and 
admired  him  as  a man  of  another  world  : and  so,  having  made  him  such  returns  as  innkeepers’ 
breeding  could  afford,  they  left  him  to  his  rest ; only  Maritornes  stayed  to  rub  down  Sancho,  who 
wanted  her  help  no  less  than  his  master. 

“ Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote  presently,  “ I pray  thee  rise,  if  thou  canst,  and  desire  the  governor 
of  the  castle  to  send  me  some  oil,  salt,  wine  and  rosemary,  that  I may  make  my  healing  balsam 
that  will  cure  us  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  ; for  truly  I want  it  extremely.” 

Sancho  then  got  up  as  fast  as  his  aching  bones  would  let  him,  and  with  much  ado  made  shift  to 
trawl  out  of  the  room  to  look  for  the  innkeeper  ; and,  stumbling  by  the  way  on  an  officer  belonging 
;o  that  society  which  they  call  the  Holy  Brotherhood  of  Toledo,  whose  chief  office  it  is  to  look  after 
thieves  and  robbers,  and  who  happened  that  night  to  lodge  in  the  inn — “ Sir,”  quoth  he  to  him,  “ for 
Heaven’s  sake  do  so  much  as  help  us  to  a little  oil,  salt,  wine  and  rosemary,  to  make  a medicine  for 
one  of  the  best  knights-errant  that  ever  trod  on  shoe  of  leather,  who  lies  yonder  grievously  wounded.” 

The  officer,  hearing  him  talk  at  that  rate,  took  him  to  be  one  out  of  his  wits  ; but  he  opened 
the  inn-door,  and  told  the  innkeeper  what  Sancho  wanted.  The  host  presently  provided  the  desired 
ingredients,  and  Sancho  crept  back  with  them  to  his  master,  whom  he  found  holding  his  head,  and 
sadly  complaining  of  the  pain  which  he  felt  there. 

The  knight  took  all  the  ingredients,  and,  having  mixed  them  together,  he  had  them  set  ovei 
the  fire,  and  there  kept  them  boiling  till  he  thought  they  were  enough.  That  done,  he  asked 
for  a phial  to  put  this  precious  liquor  in  : but  there  being  none  to  be  got,  the  innkeeper  presented 
him  wfith  an  old  earthen  jug,  and  Don  Quixote  was  forced  to  be  contented  with  that.  Then  he 
mumbled  over  the  pot  above  fourscore  Paternosters , and  as  many  Ave  Marias , Salve  Reginas , and 
Credos , making  the  sign  of  the  cross  at  every  word  by  way  of  benediction  ; at  which  ceremony, 
Sancho,  the  innkeeper,  and  the  officer  were  present.  This  blessed  medicine  being  made  Don 
Quixote  resolved  to  make  an  immediate  experiment  of  it  on  himself ; and  to  that  purpose  he  took 


13 


He  verily  believed  his  last  hour  was  come.” — p.  98. 


98 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


oft'  a good  draught  of  the  overplus,  which  the  pot  would  not  hold  : but  he  had  scarce  gulped  it 
down, “when  it  set  him  a-vomiting  so  violently,  that  you  would  have  thought  he  would  have  cast  up 
his  heart ; and  his  retelling  and  straining  put  him  into  such  a sweat,  that  he  desired  to  be  covered 
up  warm,  and  left  to  his  repose.  With  that  they  left  him,  and  he  slept  three  whole  hours  ; and  then 
waking,  found  himself  so  wonderfully  eased,  that  he  made  no  question  but  he  had  now  the  right 
balsam  of  Fierabras  ; and  therefore  he  thought  he  might  safely  undertake  all  the  most  dangerous 

adventures  in  the  world,  without  the  least  hazard  of  his  person. 

Sancho,  encouraged  by  the  wonderful  effect  of  the  balsam  on  his  master,  begged  that  he  would 
be  pleased  to  give  him  leave  to  sip  up  what  was  left  in  the  pot,  which  was  no  small  quantity ; and 
the  Don  having  consented,  honest  Sancho  lifted  it  up  with  both  his  hands,  and  with  a strong  faith, 
and  better  will,  poured  every  drop  down  his  throat.  Now  the  man’s  stomach  not  being  so  nice  as 
his  master's,  the  drench  did  not  set  him  a-vomiting  after  that  manner  : but  caused  such  a rumbling 
in  his  stomach,  such  a bitter  loathing,  kecking,  and  retching,  and  such  grinding  pangs,  with  cold 
sweats  and  swoonings.  that  he  verily  believed  his  last  hour  was  come. 

“ Friend,”  said  Don  Quixote,  seeing  him  in  that  condition,  “ 1 begin  to  think  all  this  pain  befalls 
thee,  only  because  thou  hast  not  received  the  order  of  knighthood ; for  it  is  my  opinion,  this  balsam 

ouerht  to  be  used  by  no  man  that  is  not  a professed  knight.” 

° « What  did  you  mean  then  by  letting  me  drink  it  ? ” quoth  Sancho.  “ Why  did  not  you  tell 

me  this  before  ? ’’ 

But  Don  Quixote,  as  we  have  said,  found  himself  at  ease  and  whole  ; and  his  active  soul  loathing 
an  inglorious  repose,  he  presently  was  impatient  to  depart  to  perform  the  duties  of  his  adventurous 
profession  : for  he  thought  those  moments  that  were  trifled  away  in  amusements,  or  other  concerns, 
only  a blank  in  life  ; and  all  delays  a-depriving  distressed  persons,  and  the  world  in  general,  of  his 
needed  assistance.  Thus  carried  away  by  his  eager  thoughts,  he  saddled  Rozinante  himself,  and  then 
put  the  pannel  upon  the  ass,  and  his  squire  upon  the  pannel,  after  he  had  helped  him  to  huddle  on 
his  clothes  : that  done,  he  mounted  his  steed  ; and  having  spied  a javelin  that  stood  in  a corner,  he 
seized  and  appropriated  it  to  himself,  to  supply  the  want  of  his  lance.  Above  twenty  people  that  were 
in  the  inn  were  spectators  of  all  these  transactions  ; and  among  the  rest  the  innkeeper’s  daughter, 
from  whom  Don  Quixote  had  not  power  to  withdraw  his  eyes,  breathing  out  at  every  glance  a 
deep  sigh  from  the  very  bottom  of  his  heart  ; which  those  who  had  seen  him  so  mortified  the  night 

before,  took  to  proceed  from  the  pain  of  his  bruises. 

And  now,  being  ready  to  set  forwards,  he  called  for  the  master  of  the  house,  and  with  a grave 
delivery,  “ My  lord  governor,”  cried  he,  “ the  favours  I have  received  in  your  castle  are  so  great  and 
extraordinary,  that  they  bind  my  grateful  soul  to  an  eternal  acknowledgment  : therefore,  that  I may 
be  so  happy  as  to  discharge  part  of  the  obligation,  think  if  there  be  ever  a proud  mortal  breathing 
on  whom  you  desire  to  be  revenged  for  some  affront  or  other  injury,  and  acquaint  me  with  it  now  ; 
and  by  my  order  of  knighthood,  which  binds  me  to  protect  the  weak,  relieve  the  oppressed,  and 
punish  the  bad,  I promise  you  I’ll  take  effectual  care  that  you  shall  have  ample  satisfaction. 

« Sir  Knight,”  answered  the  innkeeper,  with  an  austere  gravity,  “ I shall  not  need  your  assist- 


I have  nothing  to  do  with  all  this,”  cried  the  innkeeper ; 


pay  your  reckoning.”—^).  ioo. 


DON  OU1XOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

lOO 

ance  to  revenge  any  wrong  that  may  be  offered  to  my  person  ; for  I am  able  to  do  myself  justice, 
whenever  any  man  presumes  to  do  me  wrong  : therefore  all  the  satisfaction  I desire  is,  that  you  w.U 
pay  your  reckoning  for  horse-meat  and  man's  meat,  and  all  your  expenses  in  my  inn. 

“ How  1 ” cried  Don  Quixote,  “ is  this  an  inn  ? 

..  Yes  ” answered  the  host,  “ and  one  of  the  most  noted  and  of  the  best  repute  upon  the  road." 

..  How  strangely  have  I been  mistaken,  then ! " cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ upon  my  honour  1 took 
it  for  a castle,  and  a considerable  one,  too  ; but  if  it  be  an  inn,  and  not  a castle,  all  I have  to  say  is, 
that  you  must  excuse  me  from  paying  anything;  for  I would  by  no  means  break  the  laws  which  we 
knivhts- errant  are  bound  to  observe  ; nor  was  it  ever  known  that  they  paid  in  any  inn  whatsoever ; 
for  "this  is  the  least  recompense  that  can  be  allowed  them  for  the  intolerable  labours  they  endure  day 
and  night,  winter  and  summer,  on  foot  and  on  horseback,  pinched  with  hunger,  choked  with  thirst, 
and  exposed  to  all  the  injuries  of  the  air,  and  all  the  inconveniences  in  the  world. 

..  1 have  nothing  to  do  with  all  this,"  cried  the  innkeeper : “ pay  your  reckoning,  and  don  t 
trouble  me  with  your  foolish  stories  of  acock  and  a bull ; I cant  afford  to  keep  house  at  that  rate.' 

..  Thou  art  both  a fool  and  a knave  of  an  innkeeper!"  replied  Don  Quixote  : and  with  that, 
dapping  spurs  to  Rozinante,  and  brandishing  his  javelin  at  his  host,  he  rode  out  of  the  mn  without 
any  opposition,  and  got  a good  way  from  it,  without  so  much  as  once  looking  behind  him  to  see 

whether  his  squire  came  after  him. 

The  knioht  being  marched  off,  the  host  ran  to  demand  his  due  from  Sancho  Panza. 
However,  he^swore  he  would  not  pay;  for  the  selfsame  law  that  acquitted  the  knight  acquitted 
the  squire.  This  put  the  innkeeper  into  a great  passion,  and  made  him  threaten  Sancho  very 
hard,  telling  him  if  he  would  not  pay  him  by  fair  means,  he  would  have  him  laid  by  the  heels 
that  moment.  Sancho  swore  by  his  master's  knighthood,  he  would  sooner  part  with  h,s  life 
than  his  money  on  such  an  account ; nor  should  the  squires  in  after  ages  ever  have  occas.on  to 
upbraid  him  with  giving  so  ill  a precedent,  or  breaking  their  rights.  But  as  .11  luck  would  have  it, 
there  happened  to  be  in  the  inn  four  Segovia  clothiers,  three  Cordova  point-makers,  and  two  Seville 
hucksters,  all  brisk,  gamesome,  arch  fellows  ; who  agreeing  all  in  the  same  design,  encompassed 
Sancho,  and  pulled  him  off  his  ass,  while  one  of  them  went  and  got  a blanket.  Then  they  put  t re 
unfortunate  squire  into  it,  and  observing  the  roof  of  the  place  they  were  in  to  be  somewhat  too  low 
for  their  purpose,  they  carried  him  into  the  back  yard,  which  had  no  limits  but  the  sky,  and  there 
they  tossed  him  for  several  times  together  in  the  blanket,  as  they  do  dogs  on  Shrove  1 uesday^ 
Poor  Sancho  made  so  grievous  an  outcry  all  the  while,  that  his  master  heard  lum.  and  imagined 
those  lamentations  were  of  some  person  in  distress,  and  consequently  the  occasion  of  some  adven- 
ture • but  having  at  last  distinguished  the  voice,  he  made  to  the  inn  at  a lumbering  gallop  , ant 
findintr  the  mates  shut,  he  rode  about  to  see  whether  he  might  not  find  some  other  way  to  get  in. 
But  he  no  sooner  came  to  the  back  yard  wall,  which  was  none  of  the  highest,  than  he  was  an  eye- 
witness of  the  scurvy  trick  that  was  put  upon  his  squire.  There  he  saw  him  ascend  and  descend 
and  frolic  and  caper  in  the  air  with  so  much  nimbleness  and  agility,  that  ,t  is  thought  the  knig . 
himself  could  not  have  forborne  laughing,  had  he  been  anything  less  angry.  He  did  his  best  to  get 


“The  more  lie  stormed,  the  more  they  tossed  and  laughed.”  p.  10; 


102 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


over  the  wall,  but,  alas  ! he  was  so  bruised,  that  he  could  not  so  much  as  alight  from  his  horse. 
This  made  him  fume  and  chafe,  and  vent  his  passion  in  a thousand  threats  and  revilings,  so  strange 
and  various,  that  it  is  impossible  to  repeat  them.  But  the  more  he  stormed,  the  more  they  tossed 
and  laughed  ; Sancho  on  his  side  begging,  and  howling,  and  threatening,  to  as  little  purpose  as  his 
master,  for  it  was  weariness  alone  could  make  the  tossers  give  over.  Then  they  charitably  put  an 
end  to  his  high  dancing,  and  set  him  upon  his  ass  again,  carefully  wrapped  in  his  mantle. 

But  Maritornes’  tender  soul  made  her  pity  a male  creature  in  such  tribulation  ; and  thinking 
he  had  danced  and  tumbled  enough  to  be  a-dry,  she  was  so  generous  as  to  help  him  to  a draught  of 
water,  which  she  purposely  drew  from  the  well  that  moment,  that  it  might  be  the  cooler.  Sancho 
clapped  the  pot  to  his  mouth,  but  his  master  made  him  desist.  “Hold,  hold!”  cried  he,  “ son  Sancho; 
drink  no  water,  child,  it  will  kill  thee:  behold,  I have  here  the  most  holy  balsam,  two  drops  of  which 
Will  cure  thee  effectually.” 

“Ha!”  replied  Sancho,  shaking  his  head,  and  looking  sourly  on  the  knight  with  a side-face  ; 
''have  you  again  forgot  that  I am  no  knight  ? Keep  your  brewings  for  yourself,  and  let  me  alone.” 

With  that  he  lifted  up  the  jug  to  his  nose,  but  finding  it  to  be  mere  element,  he  spirted  out 
again  the  little  he  had  tasted,  and  desired  the  girl  to  help  him  to  some  liquor  : so  she  went  and 
fetched  him  wine,  to  make  him  amends,  and  paid  for  it,  too,  out  of  her  own  pocket.  As  soon  as 
Sancho  had  tipped  off  his  wine,  he  visited  his  ass’s  ribs  twice  or  thrice  with  his  heels,  and,  free 
egress  being  granted  him,  he  trooped  off,  mightily  satisfied  that  he  had  paid  nothing,  and  had 
carried  his  point,  though  at  the  expense  of  his  shoulders,  his  usual  sureties.  It  is  true,  the  inn-keeper 
kept  his  wallet  for  the  reckoning  ; but  the  poor  squire  was  so  dismayed,  and  in  such  haste  to  be 
gone,  that  he  never  missed  it.  The  host  was  for  shutting  the  inn-doors  after  him,  for  fear  of  the 
worst ; but  the  tossers  would  not  let  him,  being  a sort  of  fellows  that  would  not  have  mattered 
Don  Quixote  a straw,  though  he  had  really  been  one  of  the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

OF  THE  DISCOURSE  BETWEEN  THE  KNIGHT  AND  THE  SQUIRE,  WITH  OTHER  MATTERS  WORTH  RELATING. 

ANCHO  overtook  his  master,  but  so  pale,  so  dead-hearted,  and  so  mortified,  that  he  was 
j hardly  able  to  sit  his  ass. 

“ My  dear  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  seeing  him  in  that  condition,  “ I am  now  fully  convinced 
that  this  castle,  or  inn,  is  enchanted  ; for  what  could  they  be  that  made  themselves  such  barbarous 
sport  with  thee,  but  spirits  and  people  of  the  other  world  ? and  I the  rather  believe  this,  seeing  that 
when  I looked  over  the  wall,  and  saw  thee  thus  abused,  I strove  to  get  over  it,  but  could  not  stir, 
nor  by  any  means  alight  from  Rozinante.  For,  by  my  honour,  could  I either  have  got  over  the  wall 
or  dismounted,  I would  have  revenged  thee  so  effectually  on  those  discourteous  wretches,  that  they 
should  never  have  forgot  the  severity  of  their  punishment,  though  for  once  I had  infringed  the  laws 
of  chivalry  ; which,  as  I have  often  informed  thee,  do  not  permit  any  knight  to  lay  hands  on  one 
that  is  not  knighted,  unless  it  be  in  his  own  defence,  and  in  case  of  great  necessity.” 

“ Nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I would  have  paid  them  home  myself,  whether  knight  or  no  knight, 
but  it  was  not  in  my  power  ; and  yet,  I dare  say,  those  that  made  themselves  so  merry  with  my 
carcass  were  neither  spirits  nor  enchanted  folks,  as  you  will  have  it,  but  mere  flesh  and  blood,  as  we 
be.  I am  sure  they  called  one  another  by  their  Christian  names  and  surnames,  while  they  made  me 
vault  and  frisk  in  the  air  : one  was  called  Pedro  Martinez,  the  other  Tenorio  Hernandez;  and  as 
for  our  dog  of  an  host,  I heard  them  call  him  Juan  Palomeque,  the  left-handed.  Then  pray  don’t 
you  fancy  that  your  not  being  able  to  get  over  the  wall,  nor  to  alight,  was  some  enchanter’s  trick. 
It  is  a folly  to  make  many  words  ; it  is  as  plain  as  the  nose  in  a man’s  face,  that  these  same 
adventures  which  we  hunt  for  up  and  down  are  like  to  bring  us  at  last  into  a peck  of  troubles,  and 
such  a plaguy  deal  of  mischief,  that  we  shan’t  be  able  to  set  one  foot  afore  the  other.  The  short 
and  the  long  is,  I take  it  to  be  the  wisest  course  to  jog  home  and  look  after  our  harvest,  and 
not  to  run  rambling  from  Ceca  to  Mecca,  lest  we  leap  out  of  the  frying-pan  into  the  fire,  or  out 
of  God’s  blessing  into  the  warm  sun.” 


104 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


..  poor  Sancho  ! ’’  cried  Don  Quixote  i “ how  ignorant  thou  art  in  matters  of  chivalry  ! Come, 
say  no  more,  and  have  patience  : a day  will  come  when  thou  shalt  be  convinced  how  honourable  a 
thing  it  is  to  follow  this  employment.  For,  tell  me,  what  satisfaction  in  this  world,  what  pleasure 
can  equal  that  of  vanquishing  and  triumphing  over  one's  enemy  ? None,  without  doubt." 

..  It  may  be  so,  for  aught  I know,"  quoth  Sancho,  “though  I know  nothing  of  the  matter. 
However,  this  I may  venture  to  say,  that  ever  since  we  have  turned  knights-errant-your  worship, 

I mean,  for  it  is  not  for  such  scrubs  as  myself  to  be  named  the  same  day  with  such  folk-not 
any  fight  have  you  had  the  better  in,  unless  it  be  that  with  the  Biscayan  ; and  in  that,  too,  you  came 
off  with  the  loss  of  one  ear  and  the  vizor  of  your  helmet.  And  what  have  we  got  ever  since,  pray, 
but  blows,  and  more  blows  ; bruises,  and  more  bruises  ? besides  this  tossing  in  a blanket,  which  fell 
all  to  my  share,  and  for  which  1 cannot  be  revenged,  because  they  were  hobgoblins  that  served  me 
so  forsooth,  though  I hugely  long  to  be  even  with  them,  that  I may  know  the  pleasure  you  say  there 

is  in  vanquishing  one’s  enemy.’ 

..  1 find,  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  and  I are  both  sick  of  the  same  disease  ; but 
will  endeavour  with  all  speed  to  get  me  a sword  made  with  so  much  art,  that  no  sort  of  enchant- 
ment shall  be  able  to  hurt  whosoever  shall  wear  it ; and  perhaps  fortune  may  put  into  my  hand  that 
which  Amadis  de  Gaul  wore  when  he  styled  himself  the  Knight  of  the  Burning  Sword,  which  was 
one  of  the  best  blades  that  ever  was  drawn  by  knight : for,  besides  the  virtue  I now  mentioned, 
it  had  an  edge  like  a razor,  and  would  enter  the  strongest  armour  that  ever  was  tempered  or 

enchanted.”  . . 

“ I will  lay  anything,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ when  you  have  found  this  sword,  it  will  prove  just  such 

another  help  to  me  as  your  balsam  ; that  is  to  say,  it  will  stand  nobody  in  any  stead  but  your 

dubbed  knights  ; as  for  the  poor  squires,  they  may  shift  how  they  can. 

“Fear  no  such  thing,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “ Heaven  will  be  more  propitious  to  thee  than 

thou  imaginest.”  . . . • , . 

Thus  they  went  on  discoursing,  when  Don  Quixote  perceiving  a thick  cloud  of  dust  arise  rig. 

before  them  in  the  road-“  The  day  is  come,”  said  he,  turning  to  his  squire ; “ the  day  ,s  come, 

Sancho,  that  shall  usher  in  the  happiness  which  fortune  has  reserved  for  me  ; this  day  shall  e 

strength  of  my  arm  be  signalised  by  such  exploits  as  shall  be  transmitted  even  to  the  latest  posterity 

See's'll  thou  that  cloud  of  dust,  Sancho  ? it  is  raised  by  a prodigious  army  marching  this  way,  and 

composed  of  an  infinite  number  of  nations.” 

“ Why,  then,  at  this  rate,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ there  should  be  two  armies  ; for  yonder  ,s  as  great 
a dust  on  the  other  side.” 

With  that  Don  Quixote  looked,  and  was  transported  with  joy  at  the  sight,  firmly  believing  that 
two  vast  armies  were  ready  to  engage  each  other  in  that  plain  ; for  his  imagination  was  so  crowde 

with  those  battles,  enchantments,  surprising  adventures,  amorous  thoughts,  and  other  whimsies  wh.c  r 

he  had  read  of  in  romances,  that  his  strong  fancy  changed  everything  he  saw  into  what  he  desirec 
to  see  - and  thus  he  could  not  conceive  that  the  dust  was  only  raised  by  two  large  docks  of  sheep 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


io5 

that  were  going  the  same  road  from  different  parts,  and  could  not  be  discerned  till  they  were  very 
near  : he  was  so  positive  that  they  were  two  armies,  that  Sancho  firmly  believed  him  at  last. 

“ Well,  sir,”  quoth  the  squire,  “ what  are  we  to  do,  I beseech  you  ? ” 

“ What  shall  we  do,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ but  assist  the  weaker  and  injured  side  ? for  know, 
Sancho,  that  the  army  which  now  moves  towards  us  is  commanded  by  the  great  Alifanfaron 
emperor  of  the  vast  island  of  Taprobana  : the  other  that  advances  behind  us  is  his  enemy,  the 
King  of  the  Garamantians,  Pentapolin  of  the  naked  arm  ; so  called,  because  he  always  enters  into 
the  battle  with  his  right  arm  bare.” 

“ Pray,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ why  are  these  two  great  men  going  together  by  the  ears  ? ” 

“ The  occasion  of  their  quarrel  is  this,”  answered  Don  Quixote.  “ Alifanfaron,  a strong  pagan, 
is  in  love  with  Pentapolin’s  daughter,  a very  beautiful  lady  and  a Christian  : now  her  father  refuses 
to  give  her  in  marriage  to  the  heathen  prince,  unless  he  abjure  his  false  belief  and  embrace  the 
Christian  religion.” 

“ Burn  my  beard,”  said  Sancho,  “ if  Pentapolin  be  not  in  the  right  on  it ; I will  stand  by  him 
and  help  him  all  I may.” 

“ I commend  thy  resolution,"  replied  Don  Quixote;  “ it  is  not  only  lawful,  but  requisite  ; for  there 
is  no  need  of  being  a knight  to  fight  in  such  battles.” 

“ I guessed  as  much,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  where  shall  we  leave  my  ass  in  the  meantime,  that 
I may  be  sure  to  find  him  again  after  the  battle  ? for  I fancy  you  never  heard  of  any  man  that  ever 
charged  upon  such  a beast.” 

“ It  is  true,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ and  therefore  I would  have  thee  turn  him  loose,  though 
thou  wert  sure  never  to  find  him  again  ; for  we  shall  have  so  many  horses  after  we  have  got  the 
day,  that  even  Rozinante  himself  will  be  in  danger  of  being  changed  for  another.” 

Then  mounting  on  the  top  of  a hillock,  whence  they  might  have  seen  both  the  flocks,  had  not 
the  dust  obstructed  their  sight — -“Look  yonder,  Sancho  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ that  knight  whom 
thou  see’st  in  the  gilded  arms,  bearing  in  his  shield  a crowned  lion  couchant  at  the  feet  of  a lady,  is 
the  valiant  Laurcalco,  lord  of  the  Silver  Bridge.  He  in  the  armour  powdered  with  flowers  of  gold, 
bearing  three  crows  argent  in  a field  azure,  is  the  formidable  Micocolembo,  great  Duke  of  Quiracia. 
That  other  of  a gigantic  size,  that  marches  on  his  right,  is  the  undaunted  Brandabarbaran  of 
Boliche,  sovereign  of  the  three  Arabias  ; he  is  arrayed  in  a serpent’s  skin,  and  carries  instead  of  a 
shield  a huge  gate,  which  they  say  belonged  to  the  temple  which  Samson  pulled  down  at  his  death, 
when  he  revenged  himself  upon  his  enemies.  But  cast  thy  eyes  on  this  side,  Sancho,  and  at  the 
head  of  the  other  army  see  the  victorious  Timonel  of  Carcaxona,  Prince  of  New  Biscay,  whose 
armour  is  quartered  azure,  vert,  or,  and  argent,  and  who  bears  in  his  shield  a cat  or,  in  a field  gules, 
with  these  four  letters,  Miau,  for  a motto,  being  the  beginning  of  his  mistress’s  name,  the  beautiful 
Miaulina,  daughter  to  Alpheniquen,  Duke  of  Algarva.  That  other  monstrous  load  upon  the  back 
of  yonder  wild  horse,  with  arms  as  white  as  snow,  and  a shield  without  any  device,  is  a Frenchman, 
now  created  knight,  called  Pierre  Papin,  Baron  of  Utrique  : he  whom  you  see  pricking  that  pied 

14 


io6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


courser’s  flanks  with  his  armed  heels,  is  the  mighty  Duke  of  Nervia,  Espartafilardo  of  the  wood, 
bearing  in  his  shield  a field  of  pure  azure,  powdered  with  asparagus  ( Espavrago ) with  this  motto  in 
Castilian  : Rastrea  mi  suer te — ‘ Thus  trails,  or  drags  my  fortune.’” 

And  thus  he  went  on,  naming  a great  number  of  others  in  both  armies,  to  every  one  of  whom 
his  fertile  imagination  assigned  arms,  colours,  devices,  and  mottoes,  as  readily  as  if  they  had  really 
been  that  moment  extant  before  his  eyes.  “ That  vast  body,”  said  he,  “ that  is  just  opposite  to  as  is 
composed  of  several  nations.  There  you  see  those  who  drink  the  pleasant  stream  of  the  famous 
Xanthus ; there  the  mountaineers  that  till  the  Massilian  fields ; those  that  sift  the  pure  gold  of 
Arabia  Felix;  those  that  inhabit  the  renowned  and  delightful  banks  of  Thermodon.  Yonder,  there 
are  those  who  so  many  ways  sluice  and  drain  the  golden  Pactolus  for  its  precious  sand  ; the  Numi- 
dians,  unsteady  and  careless  of  their  promises  ; the  Persians,  excellent  archers  ; the  Medes  and 
Parthians,  who  fight  flying;  the  Arabs,  who  have  no  fixed  habitations;  the  Scythians,  cruel  and 
savage,  though  fair-complexioned  ; the  sooty  Ethiopians,  that  bore  their  lips  ; and  a thousand  other 
nations,  whose  countenances  I know,  though  I have  forgotten  their  names.  On  the  other  side  come 
those  whose  country  is  watered  with  the  crystal  streams  of  Betis,  shaded  with  olive-trees;  those  who 
bathe  their  limbs  in  the  rich  flood  of  the  golden  Tagus;  those  whose  mansions  are  laved  by  the 
profitable  stream  of  the  divine  Genii;  those  who  range  the  verdant  Tartesian  meadows;  those 
who  indulge  their  luxurious  temper  in  the  delicious  pastures  of  Xerez  ; the  wealthy  inhabitants  of 
Mancha,  crowned  with  golden  ears  of  corn  ; the  ancient  offspring  of  the  Goths,  cased  in  iron  ; 
those  who  wanton  in  the  lazy  current  of  Pisverga ; those  who  feed  their  numerous  flocks  in  the 
ample  plains  where  the  Guadiana,  so  celebrated  for  its  hidden  course,  pursues  its  wandering  race  ; 
those  who  shiver  with  extremity  of  cold  on  the  woody  Pyrenean  hills,  or  on  the  hoary  tops  of  snowy 
Apennine  : in  a word,  all  that  Europe  includes  within  its  spacious  bounds — half  a world  in  an  army.” 
It  is  scarce  to  be  imagined  how  many  countries  he  had  run  over,  how  many  nations  he  had 
enumerated,  distinguishing  every  one  by  what  is  peculiar  to  them,  with  an  incredible  vivacity  of  mind, 
and  that  still  in  the  puffy  style  of  his  fabulous  books.  Sancho  listened  to  all  this  romantic  muster- 
roll  as  mute  as  a fish  with  amazement ; all  that  he  could  do  was  now  and  then  to  turn  his  head  on 
this  side  and  t’other  side,  to  see  if  he  could  discern  the  knights  and  giants  whom  his  master  named. 
But  at  length,  not  being  able  to  discover  any — “ Why,”  cried  he,  “ you  had  as  good  tell  me  it  snows  ; 
not  any  knight,  giant,  or  man  can  I see,  of  all  those  you  talk  of  now  : who  knows  but  all  this  may  be 
witchcraft  and  spirits,  like  yesternight  ?” 

“ How!”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ dost  thou  not  hear  their  horses  neigh,  their  trumpets  sound, 
and  their  drums  beat  ? ” 

“ Not  I!”  quoth  Sancho.  “ I prick  up  my  ears  like  a sow  in  the  beans,  and  yet  hear  nothing 
but  the  bleating  of  sheep.”  Sancho  might  well  say  so,  for  by  this  time  the  flocks  were  very  near. 

“ Thy  fear  disturbs  thy  senses,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  hinders  thee  from  hearing  and  seeing 
right.  But  it  is  no  matter ; withdraw  to  some  place  of  safety,  since  thou  art  so  terrified  ; for  I alone 
am  sufficient  to  give  the  victory  to  that  side  which  I shall  favour  with  my  assistance.”  With  that 
he  couched  his  lance,  clapped  spurs  to  Rozinante,  and  darted  like  a thunder-bolt  into  the  plain. 


io8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Sancho  bawled  after  him  as  loud  as  he  could:  “ Hold,  sir  ! for  Heaven’s  sake,  come  back! 
What  do  you  mean  ? as  sure  as  I am  a sinner,  those  you  are  going  to  maul  are  nothing  but 
poor,  harmless  sheep.  Come  back,  I say  ! Are  you  mad,  sir  ? there  are  no  giants,  no  knights,  no 
cats,  no  asparagus-gardens,  no  golden  quarters,  nor  what  d’ye  call  thems.  What  can  possess 
you  ? you  are  leaping  over  the  hedge  before  you  come  at  the  stile — you  are  taking  the  wrong  sow 
by  the  ear.  Oh,  that  I was  ever  born  to  see  this  day  ! ” 

But  Don  Quixote,  still  riding  on,  deaf  and  lost  to  good  advice,  out-roared  his  expostulating 
squire.  “ Courage,  brave  knights  ! ” cried  he  ; “ march  up,  fall  on,  all  you  who  fight  under  the 
standard  of  the  valiant  Pentapolin  with  the  naked  arm  : follow  me,  and  you  shall  see  how  easily  I 
will  revenge  him  on  that  infidel,  Alifanfaron  of  Taprobana  ! ” and  so  saying,  he  charged  the  squadron 
of  sheep  with  that  gallantry  and  resolution,  that  he  pierced,  broke,  and  put  it  to  flight  in  an  instant, 
charging  through  and  through,  not  without  a great  slaughter  of  his  mortal  enemies,  whom  he  laid  at 
his  feet,  biting  the  ground  and  wallowing  in  their  blood.  The  shepherds,  seeing  their  sheep  go  to 
wrack,  called  out  to  him  ; till,  finding  fair  means  ineffectual,  they  unloosed  their  slings,  and  began  to 
ply  him  with  stones  as  big  as  their  fists.  But  the  champion,  disdaining  such  a distant  war,  spite  of 
their  showers  of  stones,  rushed  among  the  routed  sheep,  trampling  both  the  living  and  the  slain  in 
a most  terrible  manner,  impatient  to  meet  the  general  of  the  enemy,  and  end  the  war  at  once. 

“ Where,  where  art  thou,”  cried  he,  “ proud  Alifanfaron  ? Appear ! see  here  a single  knight 
who  seeks  thee  everywhere,  to  try  now,  hand  to  hand,  the  boasted  force  of  thy  strenuous  arm,  and 
deprive  thee  of  life,  as  a due  punishment  for  the  unjust  war  which  thou  hast  audaciously  waged  with 
the  valiant  Pentapolin  ! ” 

Just  as  he  had  said  this,  while  the  stones  flew  about  his  ears,  one  unluckily  hit  upon  his  small 
ribs,  and  had  like  to  have  buried  two  of  the  shortest  deep  in  the  middle  of  his  body.  The  knight 
thought  himself  slain,  or  at  least  desperately  wounded  ; and  therefore  calling  to  mind  his  precious 
balsam,  and  pulling  out  his  earthen  jug,  he  clapped  it  to  his  mouth  : but  before  he  had  swallowed 
a sufficient  dose,  souse  comes  another  of  those  bitter  almonds,  that  spoiled  his  draught,  and  hit  him 
so  pat  upon  the  jug,  hand,  and  teeth,  that  it  broke  the  first,  maimed  the  second,  and  struck  out  three 
or  four  of  the  last.  These  two  blows  were  so  violent,  that  the  boisterous  knight,  falling  from  his 
horse,  lay  upon  the  ground  as  quiet  as  the  slain  ; so  that  the  shepherds,  fearing  he  was  killed,  got  their 
flock  together  with  all  speed,  and  carrying  away  their  dead,  which  were  no  less  than  seven  sheep, 
made  what  haste  they  could  out  of  harm’s  way,  without  looking  any  farther  into  the  matter. 

All  this  while  Sancho  stood  upon  the  hill,  mortified  at  the  sight  of  this  mad  adventure. 
There  he  stamped  and  tore  his  beard  for  madness,  and  cursed  the  moment  he  first  knew  his 
master  : but  seeing  him  at  last  knocked  down  and  settled,  the  shepherds  having  scampered  off, 
he  thought  he  might  venture  to  come  down  ; when  he  found  him  in  a very  ill  plight,  though  not 
altogether  senseless. 

“ Ah  1 master,”  quoth  he,  “ this  comes  of  not  taking  my  counsel.  Did  I not  tell  you  it  was  a 
flock  of  sheep,  and  no  army  ? ” 

“Friend  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “know  it  is  an  easy  matter  lor  necromancers  to 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


IOQ 

change  the  shapes  of  things  as  they  please  : thus  that  malicious  enchanter,  who  is  my  inveterate 
enemy,  to  deprive  me  of  the  glory  which  he  saw  me  ready  to  acquire,  transformed  in  a moment 
the  routed  squadrons  into  sheep.  If  thou  wilt  not  believe  me,  Sancho,  yet  do  one  thing  for  my 
sake  ; do  but  take  thy  ass,  and  follow  those  supposed  sheep  at  a distance,  and  I dare  engage  thou 
shalt  soon  see  them  resume  their  former  shapes,  and  appear  such  as  I described  them.” 

Thereupon  Don  Quixote  got  up  with  much  ado,  and  clapping  his  left  hand  before  his  mouth, 
that  the  rest  of  his  loose  teeth  might  not  drop  out,  he  laid  his  right  hand  on  Rozinante’s  bridle  (for 
such  was  the  good  nature  of  the  creature,  that  he  had  not  budged  a foot  from  his  master) ; then  he 
crept  along  to  Squire  Sancho,  who  stood  lolling  on  his  ass’s  pannel,  with  his  face  in  the  hollow  of 
both  his  hands,  in  a doleful,  moody,  melancholy  fit.  “ Friend  Sancho,”  said  he,  “ learn  of  me.  that 
one  man  is  no  more  than  another,  if  he  do  no  more  than  what  another  does.  All  these  storms  and 
hurricanes  are  but  arguments  of  the  approaching  calm  : better  success  will  soon  follow  our  past 
calamities  : good  and  bad  fortune  have  their  vicissitudes;  and  it  is  a maxim,  that  nothing  violent  can 
last  long  : and  therefore  we  may  well  promise  ourselves  a speedy  change  in  our  fortune,  since  our 
afflictions  have  extended  their  range  beyond  their  usual  stint  : besides,  thou  oughtest  not  to  afflict 
thyself  so  much  for  misfortunes,  of  which  thou  hast  no  share,  but  what  friendship  and  humanity  bid 
thee  take.” 

“ How!  ” quoth  Sancho,  “ have  I no  other  share  in  them  ? was  not  he  that  was  tossed  in  the 
blanket  this  morning  the  son  of  my  father  ? and  did  not  the  wallet,  and  all  that  was  in  it,  which  I 
have  lost,  belong  to  the  son  of  my  mother  ? ” 

“ How,”  asked  Don  Quixote,  “ hast  thou  lost  thy  wallet  ? ” 

“ I don’t  know,”  said  Sancho,  “ whether  it  is  lost  or  no  ; but  I am  sure  I can’t  tell  what  is 
become  of  it.” 

“ Nay,  then,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ I find  we  must  fast  to-day.” 

“ Ay,  marry  must  we,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ unless  you  take  to  gather  in  these  fields  some  of  those 
roots  and  herbs  which  I have  heard  you  say  you  know,  and  which  used  to  help  such  unlucky  knights- 
errant  as  yourself  at  a dead  lift.” 

“ For  all  that,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “I  would  rather  have  at  this  time  a good  luncheon  of  bread, 
or  a cake  and  two  pilchards’  heads,  than  all  the  roots  and  simples  in  Dioscorides’  herbal,  and  Doctor 
Laguna’s  supplement  and  commentary  : I pray  thee,  therefore,  get  upon  thy  ass,  good  Sancho,  and 
follow  me  once  more  ; for  God’s  providence,  that  relieves  every  creature,  will  not  fail  us,  especially 
since  we  are  about  a work  so  much  to  his  service  ; thou  seest  he  even  provides  for  the  little  flying 
insects  in  the  air,  the  wormlings  in  the  earth,  and  the  spawnlings  in  the  water  ; and,  in  his  mercy, 
he  makes  his  sun  shine  on  the  righteous  and  on  the  unjust,  and  rains  upon  the  good  and  the  bad.” 

“ Your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ would  make  a better  preacher  than  a knight-errant.” 

“ Knights-errant,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ ought  to  know  all  things  : there  have  been  such  in 
former  ages,  that  have  delivered  as  ingenious  and  learned  a sermon  at  the  head  of  an  army,  as 
if  they  had  taken  their  degrees  at  the  University  of  Paris  : from  which  we  may  infer,  that  the  lance 
never  dulled  the  pen,  nor  the  pen  the  lance.” 


I IO 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHa. 


“ Well,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ let  it  be  as  you  would  have  it ; let  us  even  leave  this  unlucky 
place,  and  seek  out  a lodging,  where  I pray  there  may  be  neither  blankets  nor  blanket-heavers, 
nor  hobgoblins,  nor  enchanted  Moors.” 

“ Leave  all  things  to  Providence,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ and  for  once  lead  which  way  thou 
pleasest,  for  I leave  it  wholly  to  thy  discretion  to  provide  us  a lodging.  But  first,  I pray  thee,  feel 
a little  how  many  teeth  I want  in  my  upper  jaw  on  the  right  side,  for  there  I feel  most  pain.” 

With  that  Sancho,  feeling  with  his  finger  in  the  knight’s  mouth — “ Pray,  sir,”  quoth  he,  “ how 
many  grinders  did  your  worship  use  to  have  on  that  side  ? ” 

“ Four,"  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ besides  the  eye-tooth,  all  of  them  whole  and  sound.” 

“ Think  well  on  what  you  say,"  cried  Sancho. 

“ 1 say  four,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ if  there  were  not  five  ; for  I never  in  all  my  life  have  had 
a tooth  drawn,  or  dropped  out,  or  decayed,  or  loosened  by  rheum.” 

“ Bless  me  ! ” quoth  Sancho,  “ why,  you  have  in  this  nether  jaw  on  this  side  but  two  grinders  and 
a stump  ; and  in  that  part  of  your  upper  jaw  never  a stump,  and  never  a grinder.  Alas  ! all  is 
levelled  there  as  smooth  as  the  palm  of  one’s  hand.” 

*'  Oh,  unfortunate  Don  Quixote  ! ” cried  the  knight ; “ I had  rather  have  lost  an  arm,  so  it  were 
not  my  sword  arm  ; for  a mouth  without  cheek-teeth  is  like  a mill  without  a millstone,  Sancho  ; and 
every  tooth  in  a man’s  head  is  more  valuable  than  a diamond.  But  we  that  profess  this  strict  order 
of  knight-errantry  are  all  subject  to  these  calamities  ; and  therefore,  since  the  loss  is  irretrievable, 
mount,  my  trusty  Sancho,  and  go  thy  own  pace ; I will  follow  thee.” 

Sancho  obeyed,  and  led  the  way,  still  keeping  the  road  they  were  in,  which  being  very  much 
beaten,  promised  to  bring  him  soonest  to  a lodging.  Thus  pacing  along  very  softly,  for  Don 
Quixote’s  gums  and  ribs  would  not  suffer  him  to  go  faster,  Sancho,  to  divert  his  uneasy  thoughts, 
resolved  to  talk  to  him  all  the  while  of  one  thing  or  other,  as  the  next  chapter  will  inform  you. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

OF  THE  WISE  DISCOURSE  BETWEEN  SANCHO  AND  HIS  MASTER  ; AS  ALSO  OF  THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE 

DEAD  CORPSE,  AND  OTHER  FAMOUS  OCCURRENCES. 

“ "TV  T OW,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I can’t  help  thinking  but  that  all  the  mishaps  that  have  befallen 
us  of  late  are  a just  judgment  for  the  grievous  sin  you  have  committed  against  the  order 
of  knighthood,  in  not  keeping  the  oath  you  swore,  not  to  eat  bread  at  board,  and  I know  not 
what  more,  until  you  had  woo — what  d’ye  call  him  ? — the  Moor’s  helmet,  I think  you  named  him.” 

“Truly,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “thou  art  much  in  the  right,  Sancho;  and  to  deal  ingenuously 
with  thee,  I wholly  forgot  that  : and  now  thou  may’st  certainly  assure  thyself,  thou  wert  tossed  in  a 
blanket  for  not  remembering  to  put  me  in  mind  of  it.  However,  I will  take  care  to  make  due 
atonement ; for  knight-errantry  has  ways  to  conciliate  all  sorts  of  matters.” 

“ Why,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ did  I ever  swear  to  mind  you  of  your  vow  ? ” 

“It  is  nothing  to  the  purpose,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “whether  thou  swarest  or  no:  let  it 
suffice  that  I think  thou  art  not  very  clear  from  being  accessory  to  the  breach  of  my  vow  ; and  there- 
fore, to  prevent  the  worst,  there  will  be  no  harm  in  providing  for  a remedy.” 

“ Hark  you,  then,”  cried  Sancho,  “ be  sure  you  don’t  forget  your  atonement,  as  you  did  your 
oath,  lest  those  hobgoblins  come  and  maul  me,  and  mayhap  you  too,  for  being  a stubborn 
sinner.” 

Insensibly  night  overtook  them  before  they  could  discover  any  lodging  } and,  what  was  worse, 
they  were  almost  hunger-starved,  all  their  provision  being  in  the  wallet  which  Sancho  had  unluckily 
left  behind  ; and,  to  complete  their  distress,  there  happened  to  them  an  adventure,  or  something 
that  really  looked  like  one. 

While  our  benighted  travellers  went  on  dolefully  in  the  dark,  the  knight  very  hungry,  and  the 
squire  very  sharp  set,  what  should  they  see  moving  towards  them  but  a great  number  of  lights,  that 
appeared  like  so  many  wandering  stars.  At  this  strange  apparition,  down  sunk  Sancho’s  heart  at 


I I 2 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


once,  and  even  Don  Quixote  himself  was  not  without  some  symptoms  of  surprise.  Presently  the 
one  pulled  to  him  his  ass's  halter,  the  other  his  horse  s bridle,  and  both  made  a stop.  1 hey  soon 
perceived  that  the  lights  made  directly  towards  them,  and  the  nearer  they  came  the  bigger  they 
appeared.  At  this  terrible  wonder,  Sancho  shook  and  shivered  every  joint,  like  one  in  a palsy,  and 
Don  Quixote's  hair  stood  up  on  end  : however,  heroically  shaking  off  the  amazement  which  that 
sight  stamped  upon  his  soul,  “ Sancho,”  said  he,  “ this  must  doubtless  be  a great  and  most  perilous 
adventure,  where  I shall  have  occasion  to  exert  the  whole  stock  of  my  courage  and  strength.” 

“Woe’s  me!”  quoth  Sancho;  “should  this  happen  to  be  another  adventure  of  ghosts,  as  I fear 
it  is,  where  shall  I find  ribs  to  endure  it  ? ” 

“Come  every  ghost,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  not  suffer  them  to  touch  a hair  of  thy 
head.  If  they  insulted  thee  lately,  know  there  was  then  between  thee  and  me  a wall,  over  which  I 
could  not  climb  ; but  now  we  are  in  the  open  field,  where  I shall  have  liberty  to  make  use  of  my 
sword.” 

“ Ay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ you  may  talk  ; but  should  they  bewitch  you  as  they  did  before,  what 
would  it  avail  us  to  be  in  the  open  field  ? ” 

“ Come,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ be  of  good  cheer ; the  event  will  soon  convince  thee 
of  the  greatness  of  my  valour.” 

“ Pray  Heaven  it  may,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ I will  do  my  best.” 

With  that  they  rode  a little  out  of  the  way,  and,  gazing  earnestly  at  the  lights,  they  soon 
discovered  a great  number  of  persons  all  in  white.  At  the  dreadful  sight,  all  poor  Sancho’s  shuffling- 
courage  basely  deserted  him  ; his  teeth  began  to  chatter  as  if  he  had  been  in  an  ague  fit,  and  as  the 
objects  drew  nearer  his  chattering  increased.  And  now  they  could  plainly  distinguish  about  twenty 
men  on  horseback,  all  in  white,  with  torches  in  their  hands,  followed  by  a hearse  covered  over  with 
black,  and  six  men  in  deep  mourning,  whose  mules  were  also  in  black  down  to  their  very  heels. 
Those  in  white  moved  slowly,  murmuring  from  their  lips  something  in  a low  and  lamentable  tone. 
This  dismal  spectacle,  at  such  a time  of  night,  in  the  midst  of  such  a vast  solitude,  was  enough  to 
have  shipwrecked  the  courage  of  a stouter  squire  than  Sancho,  and  even  of  his  master,  had  he  been 
any  other  than  Don  Quixote  : but,  as  his  imagination  straight  suggested  to  him  that  this  was  one 
of  those  adventures  of  which  he  had  so  often  read  in  his  books  of  chivalry,  the  hearse  appeared  to 
him  to  be  a litter,  where  lay  the  body  of  some  knight  either  slain  or  dangerously  wounded,  the 
revenge  of  whose  misfortunes  was  reserved  for  his  prevailing  arm  ; and  so,  without  any  more  ado, 
couching  his  lance,  and  seating  himself  firm  in  the  saddle,  he  posted  himself  in  the  middle  of  the 
road,  where  the  company  were  to  pass.  As  soon  as  they  came  near,  “ Stand!”  cried  he  to  them,  in 
a haughty  tonef  “ whoever  you  be,  and  tell  me  who  you  are,  whence  you  come,  whither  you  go, 
and  what  you  carry  in  that  litter  ; for  there  is  all  the  reason  in  the  world  to  believe  that  you  have 
either  done  or  received  a great  deal  of  harm  ; and  it  is  requisite  I should  be  informed  of  the  matter, 
in  order  either  to  punish  you  for  the  ill  you  have  committed,  or  else  to  revenge  you  of  the  wrong 
vou  have  suffered.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I 13 

“ Sir,”  answered  one  of  the  men  in  white,  “ we  are  in  haste  ; the  inn  is  a great  way  off,  and  we 
cannot  stay  to  answer  so  many  questions  ; ” and  with  that,  spurring  his  mule,  he  moved  forwards. 

But  Don  Quixote,  highly  dissatisfied  with  the  reply,  laid  hold  on  the  mule’s  bridle  and  stopped 
him.  “ Stay,”  cried  he,  “ proud,  discourteous  knight ! Mend  your  behaviour,  and  give  me  instantly 
an  account  of  what  I asked  of  you,  or  here  I defy  you  all  to  mortal  combat.” 

Now  the  mule,  which  was  shy  and  skittish,  being  thus  rudely  seized  by  the  bridle,  was  presently 
scared,  and,  rising  up  on  her  hinder  legs,  threw  her  rider  to  the  ground.  Upon  this  one  of  the 
footmen  that  belonged  to  the  company  gave  Don  Quixote  ill  language ; which  so  incensed  him, 
that,  being  resolved  to  be  revenged  upon  them  all,  in  a mighty  rage  he  flew  at  the  next  he  met,  who- 
happened  to  be  one  of  the  mourners.  Him  he  threw  to  the  ground  very  much  hurt;  and  then  turning 
to  the  rest  with  a wonderful  agility,  he  fell  upon  them  with  such  fury,  that  he  presently  put  them  all 
to  flight.  You  would  have  thought  Rozinante  had  wings  at  that  time,  so  active  and  so  fierce  he 
then  approved  himself. 

It  was  not  indeed  for  men  unarmed,  and  naturally  fearful,  to  maintain  the  field  against  such  an, 
enemy;  no  wonder,  then,  if  the  gentlemen  in  white  were  immediately  dispersed,  Some  ran  one  way, 
some  another,  crossing  the  plain  with  their  lighted  torches  : you  would  now  have  taken  them  for  a 
parcel  of  frolicsome  masqueraders,  gambolling  and  scouring  on  a carnival  night.  As  for  the  mourners, 
they,  poor  men,  were  so  muffled  up  in  their  long,  cumbersome  cloaks,  that,  not  being  able  to  make 
their  party  good,  nor  defend  themselves,  they  were  presently  routed,  and  ran  away  like  the  rest,  the 
rather  for  that  they  thought  it  was  no  mortal  creature,  but  some  evil  spirit,  that  was  come  to  fetch 
away  the  dead  body  which  they  were  accompanying  to  the  grave.  All  the  while  Sancho  was  lost 
in  admiration  and  astonishment,  charmed  with  the  sight  of  his  master’s  valour ; and  now  concluded 
him  to  be  the  formidable  champion  he  boasted  himself. 

After  this  the  knight,  by  the  light  of  a torch  that  lay  burning  on  the  ground,  perceiving  the 
man  who  was  thrown  by  his  mule  lying  near  it,  rode  up  to  him,  and,  setting  his  lance  to  his 
throat,  “ Yield ! ” cried  he,  “ and  beg  thy  life,  or  thou  diest.” 

“ Alas  ! sir,”  cried  the  other,  “ why  need  you  ask  me  to  yield  ? I am  not  able  to  stir,  for  one  of 
my  legs  is  broken  ; and  I beseech  you,  if  you  are  a Christian,  do  not  kill  me.  I am  a master  of 
arts,  and  in  holy  orders  ; it  would  be  a heinous  sacrilege  to  take  away  my  life.” 

“ What  brought  you  hither,  then,  if  you  are  a clergyman  ? ” cried  Don  Quixote. 

“ What  else  but  my  ill  fortune  ? ” replied  the  suppliant. 

“A  worse  hovers  over  thy  head,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “and  threatens  thee,  if  thou  dost  not  answer 
this  moment  to  every  particular  question  I ask.” 

“ I will,  I will,  sir,”  replied  the  other ; “ and  first  I must  beg  your  pardon  for  saying  I was  a 
master  of  arts,  for  I have  yet  but  taken  my  bachelor’s  degree.  My  name  is  Alonzo  Lopez  : I am 
of  Alcovendas,  and  came  now  from  the  town  of  Baeza,  with  eleven  other  clergymen,  the  same  that 
now  ran  away  with  the  torches.  We  were  going  to  Segovia,  to  bury  the  corpse  of  a gentleman  of 

that  town,  who  died  at  Baeza,  and  lies  now  in  yonder  hearse.” 

16 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


114 

“ And  who  killed  him  ? ” asked  Don  Quixote. 

Heaven,  with  a pestilential  fever,"  answered  the  other. 

“ If  it  be  so,"  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I am  discharged  of  revenging  his  death.  Since  Heaven  did 
it,  there  is  no  mpre.  to  be  said  ; had  it  been  its  pleasure  to  have  taken  me  off  so,  I too  must  have 
submitted.  I would  have  you  informed,  reverend  sir,  that  I am  a knight  of  La  Mancha,  my 
name  Don  Quixote  ; my  employment  is  to  visit  all  parts  of  the  world  in  quest  of  adventures,  to  right 
and  relieve  injured. innocence,  and  punish  oppression.” 

“ Truly,  sir,"  -replied  the  clergyman,  “ I do  not  understand  how  you  can  call  that  to  right  and 
relieve  men,  when,  you  break  their  legs  : you  have  made  that  crooked  which  was  right  and  straight 
before  ; and  Heave.n  knows  whether  it  can  ever  be  set  right  as  long  as  I live.  Instead  of  relieving 
the  injured,  I fear. you  have  injured  me  past  relief;  and  while  you  seek  adventures,  you  have  made 
me  meet  with  a,,  very  great  misadventure.” 

“ All  things,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ are  not  blessed  alike  with  a prosperous  event,  good  Mr. 
Bachelor ; you.  should  have  taken  care  not  to  have  thus  gone  a-processioning  in  these  desolate  plains 
at  this  suspicious,  time  of  night,  with  your  white  surplices,  burning  torches,  and  sable  weeds,  like 
ghosts  and  goblins,,  that  go  about  to  scare  people  out  of  their  wits  : for  I could  not  omit  doing 
the  duty  of  my  profession,  nor  would  I have  forborne  attacking  you,  though  you  had  really  been  all 
Lucifer’s  infernaUcrew  ; for  such  I took  you  to  be,  and  till  this  moment  could  have  no  better  opinion 
of  you."  > , , 

“ Well,  sir,”.,  said  the  bachelor,  “ since  my  bad  fortune  has  so  ordered  it,  I must  desire  you,  as 
you  are  a knight-errant,  who  have  made  mine  so  ill  an  errand,  to  help  me  to  get  from  under  my  mule, 
for  it  lies  so  heavy  upon  me,  that  I cannot  get  my  foot  out  of  the  stirrup.” 

“ Why  did  you  not  acquaint  me  sooner  with  your  grievance  ? ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ I might 
have  talked  on  tilLto-morrow  morning  and  never  have  thought  on  it.” 

With  that,  he  called  Sancho,  who  made  no  great  haste,  for  he  was  much  better  employed  in 
rifling  a load  of  choice  provisions,  which  the  holy  men  carried  along  with  them  on  a sumpter-mule. 
He  had  spread  his.icoat  on  the  ground,  and  having  laid  on  it  as  much  food  as  it  would  hold,  he 
wrapped  it  up  like  a bag,  and  laid  the  booty  on  his  ass  ; and  then  away  he  ran  to  his  master,  and 
helped  him  to  set  the  bachelor  upon  his  mule  : after  which  he  gave  him  his  torch,  and  Don  Quixote 
bade  him  follow  his. company,  and  excuse  him  for  his  mistake,  though,  all  things  considered,  he  could 
not  avoid  doing  what  he  had  done. 

“ And,  sir,”,  qupth  Sancho,  “ if  the  gentlemen  would  know  who  it  was  that  so  well  threshed 
their  jackets,  you  may  tell  them  it  was  the  famous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  otherwise  called  the 
Knight  of  the  WoCul.  Figure.” 

When  the  bapll-Hor  was  gone,  Don  Quixote  asked  Sancho  why  he  called  him  the  Knight  of  the 
Woful  Figure.  ... 

“ I’ll  tell  you  why,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “I  have  been  staring  upon  you  this  pretty  while  by  the 
light  of  that  unlucky  priest’s  torch,  and  I have  been  thinking  I never  set  eyes  on  a more  dismal 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 15 

figure  in  my  born  days  ; but  I can’t  tell  what  should  be  the  cause  on’t,  unless  your  being  tired 
after  this  fray,  or  the  want  of  your  worship’s  teeth.” 

“ That  is  not  the  reason,”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ no,  Sancho,  I rather  conjecture  that  the  sage 
who  is  commissioned  by  Fate  to  register  my  achievements,  thought  it  convenient  I should  assume  a 
new  appellation,  as  all  the  knights  of  yore;  for  one  was  called  the  Knight  of  the  Burning  Sword, 
another  of  the  Unicorn,  a third  of  the  Phoenix,  a fourth  the  Knight  of  the  Damsels,  another  of  the 
Griffin,  and  another  the  Knight  of  Death  ; by  which  by-names  and  distinctions  they  were  known 
all  over  the  globe.  Therefore,  doubtless,  that  learned  sage,  my  historian,  has  inspired  thee  with  the 
thought  of  giving  me  that  additional  appellation  of  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure:1  and  accordingly 
1 assume  the  name,  and  intend  henceforward  to  be  distinguished  by  that  denomination.  And,  that 
it  may  seem  the  more  proper,  I will,  with  the  first  opportunity,  have  a most  woful  face  painted  on 
my  shield.”  1 

“On  my  word,”  quoth  Sancho,  “you  may  even  save  the  money,  and  instead  of  having  a woful 
face  painted,  you  need  no  more  but  only  show  your  own.  1 am  but  in  jest,  as  a body  may  say;  but 
what  with  the  want  of  your  teeth,  and  what  with  hunger,  you  look  so  queerly  and  so  wofully,  that 
no  painter  can  draw  you  a figure  so  fit  for  your  purpose  as  your  worship’s.” 

This  merry  conceit  of  Sancho  extorted  a smile  from  his  master’s  austere  countenance  : how- 
ever, he  persisted  in  his  resolution  about  the  name  and  the  picture ; and  after  a pause,  a sudden 
thought  disturbing  his  conscience,  “ Sancho,”  cried  he,  “ I am  afraid  of  being  excommunicated  for 
having  laid  violent  hands  upon  a man  in  holy  orders — Juxta  illud ; si  quis  suadente  diabolo,  &c. 
But  yet,  now  I think  better  on  it,  I never  touched  him  with  my  hands,  but  only  with  my  lance  ; 
besides,  I did  not  in  the  least  suspect  I had  to  do  with  priests,  whom  I honour  and  revere  as  every 
good  Catholic  and  faithful  Christian  ought  to  do,  but  rather  took  them  to  be  evil  spirits.  Well,  let 
the  worst  come  to  the  worst,  I remember  what  befell  the  Cid  Ruy-Dias,  when  he  broke  to  pieces 
the  chair  of  a king’s  ambassador  in  the  Pope’s  presence,  for  which  he  was  excommunicated  ; which 
did  not  hinder  the  worthy  Rodrigo  de  Vivar  from  behaving  himself  that  day  like  a valorous  knight, 
and  a man  of  honour.” 

This  said,  Don  Quixote  was  for  visiting  the  hearse,  to  see  whether  what  was  in  it  were  only 
dead  bones  : but  Sancho  would  not  let  him.  “ Sir,”  quoth  he,  “ you  are  come  off  now  with  a whole 
skin,  and  much  better  than  you  have  done  hitherto.  Who  knows  but  these  same  fellows  that  are 
now  scampered  off,  may  chance  to  bethink  themselves  what  a shame  it  is  for  them  to  have  suffered 
themselves  to  be  thus  routed  by  a single  man,  and  so  come  back,  and  fall  upon  us  all  at  once  ! 
Then  we  shall  have  work  enough  upon  our  hands.  The  ass  is  in  good  case ; there’s  a hill  not  far 
off,  and  our  bellies  cry  ‘ Cupboard.’  Come,  let  us  even  get  out  of  harm’s  way,  and  not  let  the  plough 
stand  to  catch  a mouse,  as  the  saying  is  ; to  the  grave  with  the  dead,  and  the  living  to  the  bread.” 

With  that  he  put  on  a dog-trot  with  his  ass ; and  his  master,  bethinking  himself  that  he  was  in 
the  right,  put  on  after  him  without  replying. 

Alter  they  had  rid  a little  way,  they  came  to  a valley  that  lay  skulking  between  two  hills 


1 1 o 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


There  they  alighted,  and  Sancho  having  opened  his  coat  and  spread  it  on  the  grass,  with  the 
provision  which  he  had  bundled  up  in  it,  our  two  adventurers  fell  to  ; and  their  stomachs  being 
sharpened  with  the  sauce  of  hunger,  they  ate  their  breakfast,  dinner,  afternoon’s  luncheon,  and  supper 
all  at  the  same  time,  feasting  themselves  with  a variety  of  cold  meats,  which  you  may  be  sure  were 
the  best  that  could  be  got ; the  priests,  who  had  brought  it  for  their  own  eating,  being,  like  the 
rest  of  their  coat,  none  of  the  worst  stewards  for  their  bellies  and  knowing  how  to  make  much  of 
themselves. 

But  now  they  began  to  grow  sensible  of  a very  great  misfortune,  and  such  a misfortune  as  was 
bemoaned  by  poor  Sancho,  as  one  of  the  saddest  that  ever  could  befall  him  ; for  they  found  they  had 
not  one  drop  of  wine  or  water  to  wash  down  their  meat  and  quench  their  thirst,  which  now  scorched 
and  choked  them  worse  than  hunger  had  pinched  them  before.  However,  Sancho,  considering  they 

Avere  in  a place  where  the  grass  was  fresh  and  green,  said  to  his  master -what  you  shall  find  in 

the  following  chapter. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

OF  A WONDERFUL  ADVENTURE  ACHIEVED  BY  THE  VALOROUS  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA  ; THE  LIKE 
NEVER  COMPASSED  WITH  LESS  DANGER  BY  ANY  OF  THE  MOST  FAMOUS  KNIGHTS  IN  THE  WORLD. 

THE  grass  is  so  fresh,”  quoth  Sancho,  half  choked  with  thirst,  “that  I dare  lay  my  life  we 
shall  light  on  some  spring  or  stream  hereabouts  ; therefore,  sir,  let  us  look,  I beseech  you, 
that  we  may  quench  this  drought,  that  plagues  our  throats  ten  times  worse  than  hunger  did  our 
stomachs.” 

Thereupon  Don  Quixote,  leading  Rozinante  by  the  bridle,  and  Sancho  his  ass  by  the  halter, 
after  he  had  laid  up  the  reversion  of  their  meal,  went  feeling  about,  only  guided  by  their  guess ; 
for  it  was  so  dark  they  scarce  could  see  their  hands.  They  had  not  gone  above  two  hundred  paces 
before  they  heard  a noise  of  a great  water-fall ; which  was  to  them  the  most  welcome  sound  in  the 
world  : but  then,  listening  with  great  attention  to  know  on  which  side  the  grateful  murmur  came, 
they  on  a sudden  heard  another  kind  of  noise,  that  strangely  allayed  the  pleasure  of  the  first, 
especially  in  Sancho,  who  was  naturally  fearful  and  pusillanimous.  They  heard  a terrible  din  of 
obstreperous  blows,  struck  regularly,  and  a more  dreadful  rattling  of  chains  and  irons,  which,  together 
with  the  roaring  of  the  waters,  might  have  filled  any  other  heart  but  Don  Quixote’s  with  terror  and 
amazement.  Add  to  this  the  horrors  of  a dark  night  and  solitude,  in  an  unknown  place  ; the  loud 
rustling  of  the  leaves  of  some  lofty  trees  under  which  fortune  had  brought  them  at  the  same  unlucky 
moment ; the  whistling  of  the  wind,  which  concurred  with  the  other  dismaying  sounds  ; the  fall  of  the 
waters,  the  thundering  thumps,  and  the  clanking  of  chains  aforesaid.  The  worst,  too,  was,  that  the 
blows  were  redoubled  without  ceasing,  the  wind  blew  on,  and  daylight  was  far  distant.  But 
then  it  was  that  Don  Quixote,  accompanied  by  his  intrepid  heart,  leaped  upon  his  Rozinante, 


Don  Quixote,  accompanied  by  his  intrepid  heart,  leaped  upon  Rosinante. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I 19 

braced  his  shield,  brandished  his  lance,  and  showed  a soul  unknowing  fear,  and  superior  to  danger 
and  fortune, 

“ Know,  Sancho,”  cried  he,  “ I was  born  in  this  iron  age,  to  restore  the  age  of  gold,  or  the 
golden  aofe,  as  some  choose  to  call  it.  I am  the  man  for  whom  Fate  has  reserved  the  most  dangerous 
and  formidable  attempts,  the  most  stupendous  and  glorious  adventures,  and  the  most  valorous 
feats  of  arms.  I am  the  man  who  must  revive  the  order  of  the  Round  Table,  the  twelve  peers  of 
France,  and  the  nine  worthies,  and  efface  the  memory  of  your  Platyrs,  your  Tablantes,  your 
Olivantes,  and  your  Tirantes.  Now  must  your  Knights  of  the  Sun,  your  Belianises,  and  all  the 
numerous  throng  of  famous  heroes,  and  knights-errant  of  former  ages,  see  the  glory  of  all  their  most 
dazzling  actions  eclipsed  and  darkened  by  more  illustrious  exploits.  Do  but  observe,  oh,  thou  my 
faithful  squire,  what  a multifarious  assemblage  of  terrors  surrounds  us ! A horrid  darkness,  a 
doleful  solitude,  a confused  rustling  of  leaves,  a dismal  rattling  of  chains,  a howling  of  the  winds,  an 
astonishing  noise  of  cataracts,  that  seem  to  fall  with  a boisterous  rapidity  from  the  steep  mountains 
of  the  moon,  a terrible  sound  of  redoubled  blows,  still  wounding  our  ears  like  furious  thunderclaps, 
and  a dead  and  universal  silence  of  those  things  that  might  buoy  up  the  sinking  courage  of  frail 
mortality.  In  this  extremity  of  danger,  Mars  himself  might  tremble  with  the  affright  : yet  I,  in  the 
midst  of  all  these  unutterable  alarms,  still  remain  undaunted  and  unshaken.  These  are  but 
incentives  to  my  valour,  and  but  animate  my  heart  the  more  ; it  grows  too  big  and  mighty  for  my 
breast,  and  leaps  at  the  approach  of  this  threatening  adventure,  so  formidable  as  it  is  like  to  prove. 
Come,  girt  Rozinante  straighter,  and  then  Providence  protect  thee  : thou  mayest  stay  for  me  here  ; 
but  if  I do  not  return  in  three  days,  go  back  to  our  village  ; and  from  thence,  for  my  sake,  to  Toboso, 
where  thou  shalt  say  to  my  incomparable  Lady  Dulcinea,  that  her  faithful  knight  fell  a sacrifice  to 
love  and  honour,  while  he  attempted  things  that  might  have  made  him  worthy  to  be  called  her 
adorer.” 

When  Sancho  heard  his  master  talk  thus,  he  fell  a-weeping  in  the  most  pitiful  manner  in  the 
world.  “ Pray,  sir,”  cried  he,  “ why  will  you  thus  run  yourself  into  mischief?  Why  need  you  go 
about  this  rueful  misventure  ? it  is  main  dark,  and  there  is  never  a living  soul  sees  us ; we  have 
nothing  to  do  but  to  sheer  off,  and  get  out  of  harm’s  way,  though  we  were  not  to  drink  a drop  these 
three  days.  Who  is  there  to  take  notice  of  our  flinching  ? I have  heard  our  parson,  whom  you 
very  well  know,  say  in  his  pulpit,  that  he  who  seeks  danger  perishes  therein  : and  therefore  we 
should  not  tempt  Fleaven  by  going  about  a thing  that  we  cannot  compass  but  by  a miracle.  Is  it 
not  enough,  think  you,  that  it  has  preserved  you  from  being  tossed  in  a blanket  as  I was,  and  made 
you  come  off  safe  and  sound  from  among  so  many  goblins  that  went  with  the  dead  man  ? If  all  this 
won’t  work  upon  that  hard  heart  of  yours,  do  but  think  of  me,  and  rest  yourself  assured  that  when 
once  you  have  left  your  poor  Sancho,  he  will  be  ready  to  give  up  the  ghost  for  very  fear,  to  the  next 
that  will  come  for  it:  I left  my  house  and  home,  my  wife,  children,  and  all  to  follow  you,  hoping 
to  be  the  better  for  it,  and  not  the  worse  ; but  as  covetousness  breaks  the  sack,  so  has  it 
broke  me  and  my  hopes  : for  while  I thought  myself  sure  of  that  unlucky  island,  which  you  so 


I 20 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


often  promised  me,  in  lieu  thereof  you  drop  me  here  in  a strange  place.  Dear  master,  don’t  be  so 
hard-hearted  ; and  if  you  won’t  be  persuaded  not  to  meddle  with  this  ungracious  adventure,  do  but 
put  it  off  till  day-break,  to  which,  according  to  the  little  skill  I learned  when  a shepherd,  it  cannot 
be  above  three  hours ; for  the  muzzle  of  the  lesser  bear  is  just  over  our  heads,  and  makes  midnight 
in  the  line  of  the  left  arm.” 

“ How  ! canst  thou  see  the  muzzle  of  the  bear  ?”  asked  Don  Quixote  ; “ there’s  not  a star  to 
be  seen  in  the  sky.” 

“ That’s  true,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  fear  is  sharp-sighted,  and  can  see  things  under  ground, 
and  much  more  in  the  skies.” 

“ Let  day  come,  or  not  come,  it  is  all  one  to  me,”  cried  the  champion  ; “ it  shall  never  be 
recorded  of  Don  Quixote,  that  either  tears  or  entreaties  could  make  him  neglect  the  duty  of  a 
knight.  Then,  Sancho,  say  no  more  ; for  Heaven,  that  has  inspired  me  with  a resolution  of 
attempting  this  dreadful  adventure,  will  certainly  take  care  of  me  and  thee  ; come  quickly,  girt  my 
steed,  and  stay  here  for  me  ; for  you  will  shortly  hear  of  me  again,  either  alive  or  dead.” 

Sancho,  finding  his  master  obstinate,  and  neither  to  be  moved  with  tears  nor  good  advice, 
resolved  to  try  a trick  of  policy  to  keep  him  there  till  daylight  : and  accordingly,  while  he  pretended 
to  fasten  the  girths,  he  slily  tied  Rozinante’s  hinder  legs  with  his  ass’s  halter,  without  being  so  much 
as  suspected  : so  that  when  Don  Quixote  thought  to  have  moved  forwards,  he  found  his  horse 
would  not  go  a step  without  leaping,  though  he  spurred  him  on  smartly.  Sancho,  perceiving  his 
plot  took,  “ Look  you,  sir,”  quoth  he,  “ Heaven’s  on  my  side,  and  won’t  let  Rozinante  budge  a foot 
forwards  ; and  now  if  you  will  still  be  spurring  him,  I dare  pawn  my  life,  it  will  be  but  striving 
against  the  stream  ; or,  as  the  saying  is,  but  kicking  against  the  pricks.” 

Don  Quixote  fretted,  and  chafed,  and  raved,  and  was  in  a desperate  fury,  to  find  his  horse  so 
stubborn  ; but  at  last,  observing  that  the  more  he  spurred  and  galled  his  sides,  the  more  restive  he 
proved,  he  resolved,  though  very  unwillingly,  to  have  patience  until  it  was  light.  “ Well,”  said  he, 
“ since  Rozinante  will  not  leave  this  place,  I must  tarry  in  it  until  the  dawn,  though  its  slowness  will 
cost  me  some  sighs.” 

“ You  shall  not  need  to  sigh  nor  be  melancholy,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ for  I will  undertake  to  tell 
you  stories  until  it  be  day  ; unless  your  worship  had  rather  get-  off  your  horse,  and  take  a nap  upon 
the  green  grass,  as  knights-errant  are  wont,  that  you  may  be  the  fresher,  and  the  better  able  in  the 
morning  to  go  through  that  monstrous  adventure  that  waits  for  you.” 

“What  dost  thou  mean  by  thus  alighting  and  sleeping?”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “ thinkest 
thou  I am  one  of  those  carpet-knights,  that  abandon  themselves  to  sleep  and  lazy  ease,  when 
danger  is  at  hand  ? no,  sleep  thou,  thou  art  born  to  sleep ; or  do  what  thou  wilt.  As  for  myself,  1 
know  what  I have  to  do.” 

“ Good  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ do  not  put  yourself  in  a passion  ; I meant  no  such  thing,  not  I.” 

Saying  this,  he  clapped  one  of  his  hands  upon  the  pummel  of  Rozinante’s  saddle,  and  the  other 
upon  the  crupper,  and  thus  he  stood  embracing  his  master’s  left  thigh,  not  daring  to  budge  an  inch, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I 2 I 


lor  fear  of  the  blows  that  dinned  continually  in  his  ears.  Don  Quixote  then  thought  fit  to  claim 
his  promise,  and  desired  him  to  tell  some  of  his  stories,  to  help  to  pass  away  the  time. 

“ Sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I am  wofully  frighted,  and  have  no  heart  to  tell  stories ; however,  I 
will  do  my  best ; and,  now  I think  on  it,  there  is  one  come  into  my  head,  which  if  I can  but  hit 
on  it  right,  and  nothing  happens  to  put  me  out,  is  the  best  story  you  ever  heard  in  your  life  ; there' 
fore  listen,  for  I am  going  to  begin.— In  the  days  of  yore,  when  it  was  as  it  was,  good  betide  us  all, 
and  evil  to  him  that  evil  seeks.  And  here,  sir,  you  are  to  take  notice  that  they  of  old  did  not 
begin  their  tales  in  an  ordinary  way  ; for  it  was  a saying  of  a wise  man  whom  they  called  Cato  the 
Roman  Tonsor,  that  said,  ‘ Evil  to  him  that  evil  seeks,’  which  is  as  pat  for  your  purpose  as  a ring 
for  the  finger,  that  you  may  neither  meddle  nor  make,  nor  seek  evil  and  mischief  for  the  nonce,  but 
rather  get  out  of  harm’s  way.” 

“ Go  on  with  the  story,  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ and  leave  the  rest  to  my  discretion.” 

“ I say  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  in  a country  town  in  Estremadura,  there  lived  a certain 
shepherd,  goatherd  I should  have  said  ; which  goatherd,  as  the  story  has  it,  was  called  Lope  Ruyz  ; 
and  this  Lope  Ruyz  was  in  love  with  a shepherdess,  whose  name  was  Toralva ; the  which 
shepherdess,  whose  name  was  Toralva,  was  the  daughter  of  a wealthy  grazier  ; and  this  wealthy 
grazier ” 

“ If  thou  goest  on  at  this  rate,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “and  makest  so  many  needless  repetitions, 
thou  wilt  not  have  told  thy  story  these  two  days.  Pray  thee  tell  it  concisely,  and  like  a man  of 
sense,  or  let  it  alone.” 

“ I tell  it  you,”  quoth  Sancho,  “as  all  stories  are  told  in  our  country,  and  I cannot  for  the  life 
of  me  tell  it  in  any  other  way,  nor  is  it  fit  I should  alter  the  custom.” 

“ Why,  then,  tell  it  how  thou  wilt,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ since  my  ill  fortune  forces  me  to  stay 
and  hear  thee.” 

“ Well,  then,  dear  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ as  I was  saying,  this  same  shepherd — goatherd  I 
should  have  said — was  woundily  in  love  with  that  same  shepherdess  Toralva,  who  was  a well- 
trussed,  round,  strapping  wench,  coy  and  foppish,  and  somewhat  like  a man,  for  she  had  a kind  of 
beard  on  her  upper  lip.  Methinks  I see  her  now  standing  before  me.” 

“ Then  I suppose  thou  knewest  her  ? ” said  Don  Quixote. 

“ Not  I,”  answered  Sancho  ; “ I never  set  eyes  on  her  in  my  life;  but  he  that  told  me  the 
story  said  this  was  so  true,  that  I might  vouch  it  for  a real  truth,  and  even  swear  I had  seen  it  all 

myself  Well, but,  as  you  know,  days  go  and  come,  and  time  and  straw  makes  medlars  ripe  ; 

so  it  happened,  that  after  several  days  coming  and  going,  the  devil,  who  seldom  lies  dead  in  a ditch, 
but  will  have  a finger  in  every  pie,  so  brought  it  about,  that  the  shepherd  fell  out  with  his  sweet- 
heart, insomuch  that  the  love  he  bore  her  turned  into  dudgeon  and  ill  will ; and  the  cause  was,  by 
report  of  some  mischievous  tale-carriers  that  bore  no  good  will  to  either  party,  for  that  the  shepherd 
thought  her  no  better  than  she  should  be.  Thereupon,  being  grievous  in  the  dumps  about  it,  and 
now  bitterly  hating  her,  he  even  resolved  to  leave  that  country,  to  get  out  of  her  sight : for  now,  as 


10 


12  2 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


every  dog-  has  his  day,  the  wench  perceiving  he  came  no  longer  a-suitoring  to  her,  but  rather  tossed 
his  nose  at  her,  and  shunned  her,  she  began  to  love  him  and  doat  upon  him  like  anything.” 

“ That  is  the  nature  of  women,”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ not  to  love  when  we  love  them,  and  to 
love  when  we  love  them  not.  But  go  on.” 

“ The  shepherd  then  gave  her  the  slip,”  continued  Sancho,  “ and  driving  his  goats  before  him, 
went  trudging  through  Estremadura,  on  his  way  to  Portugal.  But  Toralva,  having  a long  nose, 
soon  smelt  his  design,  and  then  what  does  she  do,  think  ye,  but  comes  after  him  bare-foot  and  bare- 
legged,  with  a pilgrim’s  staff  in  her  hand,  and  a wallet  at  her  back,  wherein  they  say  she  carried  a 
piece  of  looking-glass,  half  a comb,  a broken  pot  with  paint,  and  I don’t  know  what  other  trinkum- 
trankums  to  prink  herself  up.  But  let  her  carry  what  she  would,  it  is  no  bread  and  butter  of  mine  ; 
the  short  and  the  long  is,  that  they  say  the  shepherd  with  his  goats  got  at  last  to  the  river  Guadiana, 
which  happened  to  be  overflowed  at  that  time  ; and  what  was  worse  than  ill  luck,  there  was  neither 
boat  nor  bark  to  ferry  him  over;  which  vexed  him  the  more,  because  he  perceived  Toralva  at  his 
heels,  and  he  feared  to  be  teased  and  plagued  with  her  weeping  and  wailing.  At  last  he  spied  a 
fisherman  in  a little  boat,  but  so  little  it  was,  that  it  would  carry  but  one  man  and  one  goat  at  a 
time.  Well,  for  all  that,  he  called  to  the  fisherman,  and  agreed  with  him  to  carry  him  and  his  three 
hundred  goats  over  the  water.  The  bargain  being  struck,  the  fisherman  came  with  his  boat,  and 
carried  over  one  goat ; then  he  rowed  back  and  fetched  another  goat,  and  after  that  another  goat. 
Pray,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ be  sure  you  keep  a good  account  how  many  goats  the  fisherman  ferries 
over ; for  if  you  happen  but  to  miss  one,  my  tale  is  at  an  end,  and  not  one  word  have  I more  to 
say. — Well  then,  whereabouts  was  1? — Ho!  I hat. — Now  the  landing-place  on  the  other  side 
was  very  muddy  and  slippery,  which  made  the  fisherman  be  a long  while  in  going  and  coming  ; 
yet  for  all  that,  he  took  heart  of  grace,  and  made  shift  to  carry  over  one  goat,  then  another,  and 
then  another. 

“ Come,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ we  will  suppose  he  has  landed  them  all  on  the  other  side  of  the 
river  ; for  as  thou  goest  on,  one  by  one,  we  shall  not  have  done  these  twelve  months.” 

“ Pray  let  me  go  on  in  my  own  way,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ How  many  goats  are  got  over 
already  ? ” 

“ Nay,  how  can  I tell  ? ” replied  Don  Quixote. 

“ There  it  is ! ” quoth  Sancho ; “ did  not  I bid  you  keep  count  ? on  my  word  the  tale  is  at  an 
end,  and  now  you  may  go  whistle  for  the  rest.” 

“ Ridiculous ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  : “ pray  thee,  is  there  no  going  on  with  the  story  unless  I 
know  exactly  how  many  goats  are  wafted  over  ? ” 

“ No,  marry  is  there  not,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ for  as  soon  as  you  answered  that  you  could  not  tell, 
the  rest  of  the  story  quite  and  clean  slipped  out  of  my  head  ; and  in  troth  it  is  a thousand  pities,  for 
it  was  a special  one.” 

“ So,  then,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ the  story’s  ended  ? ” 

Ay,  marry  is  it,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ it  is  no  more  to  be  fetched  to  life  than  my  dead  mother.” 


“When  they  came  nearer,  even  patient  Rozinante  himself  started  at  the  dreadful  sound.”—/.  124. 


124 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Upon  my  honour,’’  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ a most  extraordinary  story,  and  told  and  concluded 
in  as  extraordinary  a manner ! it  is  a nonsuch,  I assure  ye ; though  truly  I expected  no  less  from  a 
man  of  such  uncommon  parts.  Alas ! poor  Sancho,  I am  afraid  this  dreadful  noise  has  turned  thy 
brain.” 

“ That  may  well  be,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  as  for  my  story,  I am  sure  there  is  nothing  more  tc» 
be  said  ; for  where  you  lose  the  account  of  the  goats,  there  it  ends.” 

This  discourse,  such  as  it  was,  served  them  to  pass  away  the  night ; and  now  Sancho,  seeing 
the  morning  arise,  thought  it  time  to  untie  Rozinante’s  feet,  and  he  did  so  with  so  much  caution,  that 
his  master  suspected  nothing.  As  for  Rozinante,  he  no  sooner  felt  himself  at  liberty,  but  he 
seemed  to  express  his  joy  by  pawing  the  ground  ; for,  with  his  leave  be  it  spoken,  he  was  a stranger 
to  curvetting  and  prancing.  Don  Quixote  also  took  it  as  a good  omen,  that  his  steed  was  now 
ready  to  move,  and  believed  that  it  was  a signal  given  him  by  kind  fortune,  to  animate  him  to  give 
birth  to  the  approaching  adventure. 

Now  had  Aurora  displayed  her  rosy  mantle  over  the  blushing  skies,  and  dark  night  withdrawn 
her  sable  veil ; all  objects  stood  confessed  to  human  eyes,  and  Don  Quixote  could  now  perceive  he 
was  under  some  tall  chesnut  trees,  whose  thick  spreading  boughs  diffused  an  awful  gloom  around 
the  place  ; but  he  could  not  yet  discover  whence  proceeded  the  dismal  sound  of  those  incessant 
strokes.  Therefore  being  resolved  to  find  it  out,  once  more  he  took  his  leave  of  Sancho,  with  the 
same  injunctions  as  before  ; adding,  withal,  that  he  should  not  trouble  himself  about  the  recompense 
of  his  services,  for  he  had  taken  care  of  that  in  his  will,  which  he  had  providently  made  before  he 
left  home  ; but  if  he  came  off  victorious  from  this  adventure,  he  might  most  certainly  expect  to  be 
gratified  with  the  promised  island.  Sancho  could  not  forbear  blubbering  again,  to  hear  these  tender 
expressions  of  his  master,  and  resolved  not  to  leave  him  till  he  had  finished  this  enterprise.  And 
from  that  deep  concern,  and  this  nobler  resolution  to  attend  him,  the  author  of  this  history  infers 
that  the  squire  was  something  of  a gentleman  by  descent,  or  at  least  the  offspring  of  the  old 
Christians.  Nor  did  his  good  nature  fail  to  move  his  master  more  than  he  was  willing  to  show,  at 
a time  when  it  behoved  him  to  shake  off  all  softer  thoughts  ; for  now  he  rode  towards  the  place 
whence  the  noise  of  the  blows  and  the  water  seemed  to  come,  while  Sancho  trudged  after  him,, 
leading  by  the  halter  the  inseparable  companion  of  his  good  and  bad  fortune. 

After  they  had  gone  a pretty  way  under  a pleasant  covert  of  chesnut  trees,  they  came  into  a 
meadow  adjoining  certain  rocks,  from  whose  top  there  was  a great  fall  of  waters.  At  the  foot  of 
those  rocks  they  discovered  certain  old,  ill-contrived  buildings,  that  rather  looked  like  ruins  than 
inhabited  houses  ; and  they  perceived  that  the  terrifying  noise  of  the  blows,  which  yet  continued,, 
issued  out  of  that  place.  When  they  came  nearer,  even  patient  Rozinante  himself  started  at  the 
dreadful  sound  ; but,  being  heartened  and  pacified  by  his  master,  he  was  at  last  prevailed  with  to  draw 
nearer  and  nearer  with  wary  steps  ; the  knight  recommending  himself  all  the  way  most  devoutly  to- 
his  Dulcinea,  and  now  and  then  also  to  Heaven,  in  short  ejaculations.  As  for  Sancho,  he  stuck  close 
to  his  master,  peeping  all  the  way  through  Rozinante’s  legs,  to  see  if  he  could  perceive  what  he 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I25 


dreaded  to  find  out.  When  a little  farther,  at  the  doubling  of  the  point  of  a rock,  they  plainly 
discovered  (kind  reader,  do  not  take  it  amiss)  six  huge  fulling-mill  hammers,  which  inter- 
changeably thumping  several  pieces  of  cloth,  made  the  terrible  noise  that  caused  all  Don  Quixote's 
anxieties  and  Sancho’s  tribulation  that  night. 

Don  Quixote  was  struck  dumb  at  this  unexpected  sight,  and  was  ready  to  drop  from  his  horse 
with  shame  and  confusion.  Sancho  stared  upon  him,  and  saw  him  hang  down  his  head,  with  a 
desponding,  dejected  countenance,  like  a man  quite  dispirited  with  this  cursed  disappointment.  At 
the  same  time  he  looked  upon  Sancho,  and  seeing  by  his  eyes,  and  his  cheeks  swelled  with  laughter, 
that  he  was  ready  to  burst,  he  could  not  forbear  laughing  himself,  in  spite  of  all  his  vexation  ; so 
that  Sancho,  seeing  his  master  begin,  immediately  gave  a loose  to  his  mirth,  and  broke  out  into  such 
a fit  of  laughing,  that  he  was  forced  to  hold  his  sides  with  both  his  knuckles,  for  fear  of  bursting  his 
aching  paunch.  Four  times  he  ceased,  and  four  times  renewed  his  obstreperous  laughing  ; which 
sauciness  Don  Quixote  began  to  resent  with  great  indignation  ; and  the  more  when  Sancho,  in  a 
jeering  tone,  presumed  to  ridicule  him  with  his  own  words,  repeating  part  of  the  vain  speech  he 
made  when  first  they  heard  the  noise  : “ Know,  Sancho,  I was  born  in  this  iron  age  to  restore  the 
age  of  gold.  I am  the  man  for  whom  Heaven  has  reserved  the  most  dangerous  and  glorious  adven- 
tures,” &c. 

Thus  he  went  on,  till  his  master,  dreadfully  enraged  at  his  insolence,  hit  him  two  such  blows 
on  the  shoulders  with  his  lance,  that,  had  they  fallen  upon  his  head,  they  had  saved  Don  Quixote 
the  trouble  of  paying  him  his  wages,  whatever  he  must  have  done  to  his  heirs.  Thereupon 
Sancho,  finding  his  jest  turn  to  earnest,  begged  pardon  with  all  submission.  “ Mercy!  good 
your  worship,”  cried  he  ; “ spare  my  bones,  I beseech  you  ! I meant  no  harm,  I did  but  joke  a 
little.” 

“And  because  you  joke,  1 do  not,”  cried  Don  Quixote.  “ Come  hither,  good  Mr.  Jester,  you 
who  pretend  to  rally  ; tell  me,  had  this  been  a dangerous  adventure,  as  well  as  it  proves  only  a false 
alarm,  have  I not  shown  resolution  enough  to  undertake  and  finish  it  ? Am  I,  who  am  a knight, 
bound  to  know  the  meaning  of  every  mechanical  noise,  and  distinguish  between  sound  and  sound  ? 
Besides,  it  might  happen,  as  really  it  is,  that  I had  never  seen  a fulling-mill  before,  though  thou, 
like  a base  scoundrel  as  thou  art,  wert  born  and  brought  up  among  such  mean  implements  of 
drudgery.  But  let  the  six  fulling-hammers  be  transformed  into  so  many  giants,  and  then  set  them 
at  me  one  by  one,  or  all  together  ; and  if  I do  not  lay  them  all  at  my  feet  with  their  heels  upwards, 
then  I will  give  thee  leave  to  exercise  thy  ill-bred  raillery  as  much  as  thou  pleasest.” 

“ Good,  your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ talk  no  more  on  it,  I beseech  you  ; I confess  I carried 
the  jest  too  far.  But  now  all  is  hushed  and  well,  pray  tell  me  in  sober  sadness,  as  you  hope  to 
speed  in  all  adventures,  and  come  off  safe  and  sound  as  from  this,  don’t  you  think  but  that  the 
fright  we  were  in,  I mean  that  I was  in,  would  be  a good  subject  for  people  to  make  sport 
with  ? ” 

“ I grant  it,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ but  I would  not  have  it  told  ; for  all  people  are  not  so 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 26 

discreet  as  to  place  things,  or  look  upon  them,  in  the  position  in  which  they  should  be 
considered.” 

“ I will  say  that  for  you,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ you  have  shown  you  understand  how  to  place  tilings 
in  their  right  position,  when,  aiming  at  my  head,  you  hit  my  shoulders  ; had  not  I ducked  a little 
on  one  side,  I had  been  in  a fine  condition  ! But  let  that  pass,  it  will  wash  out  in  the  bucking.  I 
have  heard  my  grannam  say,  ‘ That  man  loves  thee  well  who  makes  thee  to  weep.’  Good  masters 
may  be  hasty  sometimes  with  a servant,  but  presently  after  a hard  word  or  two  they  commonly 
give  him  a pair  of  cast  breeches  : what  they  give  after  a basting,  Heaven  knows;  all  I can  tell  is, 
that  knights-errant,  after  bastinadoes,  give  you  some  cast  island,  or  some  old-fashioned  kingdom 
upon  the  main  land.” 

“ Fortune,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ will  perhaps  order  everything  thou  hast  said  to  come  to  pass  ; 
therefore,  Sancho,  I pray  thee  think  no  more  of  my  severity  ; thou  knowest  a man  cannot  always 
command  the  first  impulse  of  his  passions.  On  the  other  side,  let  me  advise  thee  not  to  be  so 
saucy  for  the  future,  and  not  to  assume  that  strange  familiarity  with  me  which  is  so  unbecoming  in 
a servant.  I protest,  in  such  a vast  number  of  books  of  knight-errantry  as  I have  read,  I never 
found  that  any  squire  was  ever  allowed  so  great  a freedom  of  speech  with  his  master  as  thou  takest 
with  me  ; and  truly  I look  upon  it  to  be  a great  fault  in  us  both  : in  thee  for  disrespecting  me,  and 
in  me  for  not  making  myself  be  more  respected.  Gandalin,  Amadis  de  Gaul’s  squire,  though  he 
was  earl  of  the  Firm  Island,  yet  never  spoke  to  his  master  but  with  cap  in  hand,  his  head  bowed, 
and  his  body  half  bent,  after  the  Turkish  manner.  But  what  shall  we  say  of  Gasabal,  Don  Galaor’s 
squire,  who  was  such  a strict  observer  of  silence,  that,  to  the  honour  of  his  marvellous  taciturnity, 
he  gave  the  author  occasion  to  mention  his  name  but  once  in  that  voluminous  authentic  history  ? 
From  all  this,  Sancho,  I would  have  thee  make  this  observation,  that  there  ought  to  be  a distance 
kept  between  the  master  and  the  man,  the  knight  and  the  squire.  Therefore,  once  more  I tell  thee, 
let  us  live  together  for  the  future  more  according  to  the  due  decorum  of  our  respective  degrees, 
without  giving  one  another  any  further  vexation  on  this  account ; for  after  all,  it  will  always  be  the 
worse  for  you  on  whatsoever  occasion  we  happen  to  disagree.  As  for  the  rewards  I promised  you, 
they  will  come  in  due  time;  and  should  you  be  disappointed  that  way,  you  have  your  salary  to  trust 
to,  as  I have  told  you.” 

“ You  say  very  well,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  now,  sir,  suppose  no  rewards  should  come,  and  I 
should  be  forced  to  stick  to  my  wages,  I would  fain  know  how  much  a squire-errant  used  to  earn  in 
the  days  of  yore  ? Did  they  go  by  the  month,  or  by  the  day,  like  our  labourers  ? ” 

“ I do  not  think,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ they  ever  went  by  the  hire,  but  rather  that  they 
trusted  to  their  masters’  generosity.  And  if  I have  assigned  thee  wages  in  my  will,  which  I left 
sealed  up  at  home,  it  was  only  to  prevent  the  Avorst,  because  I do  not  know  yet  what  success  I 
may  have  in  chivalry  in  these  depraved  times  ; and  I would  not  have  my  soul  suffer  in  the  other 
world  for  such  a trifling  matter ; for  there  is  no  state  of  life  so  subject  to  dangers  as  that  of  a 
knight-errant.”  • 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


127 


“ Like  enough,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ when  merely  the  noise  of  the  hammers  of  a fulling-mill  is  able 
to  trouble  and  disturb  the  heart  of  such  a valiant  knight  as  your  worship  ! But  you  may  be  sure  I 
will  not  hereafter  so  much  as  offer  to  open  my  lips  to  jibe  or  joke  at  your  doings,  but  always  stand 
in  awe  of  you,  and  honour  you  as  my  lord  and  master.” 

“ Bv  doing  so,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ thy  days  shall  be  long  on  the  face  of  the  earth  ; for 
next  to  our  parents,  we  ought  to  respect  our  masters,  as  if  they  were  our  fathers.” 


CHAPTER  XX. 

OF  THE  HIGH  ADVENTURE  AND  CONQUEST  OF  MAMBRINO  S HELMET,  WITH  OTHER  EVENTS  RELATING  TO 

OUR  INVINCIBLE  KNIGHT. 

AT  the  same  time  it  began  to  rain,  and  Sancho  would  fain  have  taken  shelter  in  the  fulling 
mills  ; but  Don  Quixote  had  conceived  such  an  antipathy  against  them  for  the  shame  they 
had  put  upon  him,  that  he  would  by  no  means  be  prevailed  with  to  go  in  ; and  turning  to  the  right 
hand  he  struck  into  a highway,  where  they  had  not  gone  far  before  he  discovered  a horseman,  who 
wore  upon  his  head  something  that  glittered  like  gold.  The  knight  had  no  sooner  spied  him,  but, 
turning  to  his  squire,  “ Sancho,”  cried  he,  “ I believe  there  is  no  proverb  but  what  is  true  ; they  are 
all  so  many  sentences  and  maxims  drawn  from  experience,  the  universal  mother  of  sciences  : for 
instance,  that  saying,  that  ‘where  one  door  shuts,  another  opens:’  thus  Fortune,  that  last  night 
deceived  us  with  the  false  prospect  of  an  adventure,  this  morning  offers  us  a real  one  to  make  us 
amends  ; and  such  an  adventure,  Sancho,  that  if  I do  not  gloriously  succeed  in  it,  I shall  have  now 
no  pretence  to  an  excuse,  no  darkness,  no  unknown  sounds  to  impute  my  disappointment  to  ; in 
short,  in  all  probability  yonder  comes  the  man  who  wears  on  his  head  Mambnno’s  helmet,  and  thou 

knowest  the  vow  I have  made.” 

“ Good  sir."  quoth  Sancho.  “ mind  what  you  say,  and  take  heed  what  you  do  ; for  I would 
willingly  keep  my  carcase  and  the  case  of  my  understanding  from  being  pounded,  mashed,  and 
crushed  with  fulling-hammers.” 

« Blockhead  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ is  there  no  difference  between  a helmet  and  a fulling- 
mill  ? ” 

“ I don’t  know,”  saith  Sancho “ but  I am  sure,  were  I suffered  to  speak  my  mind  now  as  I was 
wont,  mayhap  I would  give  you  such  main  reasons,  that  yourself  should  see  you  are  wide  of  the 

matter.” 

“ How  can  I be  mistaken,  thou  eternal  misbeliever  ? ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ dost  thou  not  see 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


129 


that  knight  that  comes  riding  up  directly  towards  us  upon  a dapple-grey  steed,  with  a helmet  of 
gold  on  his  head  ? ” 

“ I see  what  I see,”  replied  Sancho  ; “ and  I can  spy  nothing  but  a fellow  on  such  another  grey 
ass  as  mine  is,  with  something  that  glisters  o’top  of  his  head.” 

“ I tell  thee  that  is  Mambrino’s  helmet,”  replied  Don  Quixote ; “ do  thou  stand  at  a distance, 
and  leave  me  to  deal  with  him  ; thou  shalt  see  that,  without  trifling  away  so  much  as  a moment  in 
needless  talk,  I will  finish  this  adventure,  and  possess  myself  of  the  desired  helmet.” 

“ I shall  stand  at  a distance,  you  may  be  sure,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  I wish  this  may  not  prove 
a worse  job  than  the  fulling-mills.” 

“ I have  warned  you  already,  fellow,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ not  so  much  as  to  name  the  fulling 
mills  ; dare  but  once  more  to  do  it,  nay,  but  to  think  on  it,  and  I vow  to — I say  no  more,  but  I’ll  full 
and  pound  your  dogship  into  jelly.” 

These  threats  were  more  than  sufficient  to  padlock  Sancho’s  lips,  for  he  had  no  mind  to  have 
his  master’s  vow  fulfilled  at  the  expense  of  his  bones. 

Now  the  truth  of  the  story  was  this  : there  were  in  that  part  of  the  country  two  villages,  one 
of  which  was  so  little  that  it  had  not  so  much  as  a shop  in  it,  nor  any  barber  ; so  that  the  barber  of 
the  greater  village  served  also  the  smaller.  And  thus  a person  happening  to  have  occasion  to  be 
let  blood,  and  another  to  be  shaved,  the  barber  was  going  thither  with  his  brass  basin,  which  he  had 
clapped  upon  his  head  to  keep  his  hat,  that  chanced  to  be  a new  one,  from  being  spoiled  by  the 
rain  ; and  as  the  basin  was  new  scoured,  it  made  a glitteringshow  a great  way  off.  As  Sancho  had 
well  observed,  he  rode  upon  a grey  ass,  which  Don  Quixote  as  easily  took  for  a dapple-grey  steed 
as  he  took  the  barber  for  a knight,  and  his  brass  basin  for  a golden  helmet  ; his  distracted  brain 
easily  applying  every  object  to  his  romantic  ideas.  Therefore,  when  he  saw  the  poor  imaginary 
knight  draw  near,  he  fixed  his  lance,  or  javelin,  to  his  thigh,  and  without  staying  to  hold  a parley 
with  his  thoughtless  adversary,  flew  at  him  as  fiercely  as  Rozinante  would  gallop,  resolved  to  pierce 
him  through  and  through  ; crying  out  in  the  midst  of  his  career,  “ Caitiff ! wretch  ! defend  thyself,  or 
immediately  surrender  that  which  is  so  justly  my  due.” 

The  barber,  who,  as  he  peacefully  went  along,  saw  that  terrible  apparition  come  thundering 
upon  him  unawares,  had  no  other  way  to  avoid  being  run  through  with  his  lance,  but  to  throw 
himself  off  from  his  ass  to  the  ground  ; and  then  as  hastily  getting  up,  he  took  to  his  heels,  and  ran 
over  the  fields  swifter  than  the  wind,  leaving  his  ass  and  his  basin  behind  him.  Don  Quixote 
finding  himself  thus  master  of  the  field,  and  of  the  basin,  “ The  miscreant,”  cried  he,  “ who  has  left 
this  helmet,  has  shown  himself  as  prudent  as  the  beaver,  who,  finding  himself  hotly  pursued  by  the 
hunters,  to  save  his  life,  tears  and  cuts  off  with  his  teeth  that  for  which  his  natural  instinct  tells  him 
he  was  followed."  Then  he  ordered  Sancho  to  take  up  the  helmet. 

“ On  my  word,”  quoth  Sancho,  having  taken  it  up,  “ it  is  a special  basin,  and  as  well  worth  a 
piece  of  eight  as  a thief  is  worth  a halter.” 

With  that  he  gave  it  to  his  master,  who  presently  clapped  it  on  his  head,  turning  it  every  way 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


UO 

to  find  out  the  beaver  or  visor;  and  at  last,  seeing  it  had  none,  “ Doubtless,”  said  he,  “ the  pagan  for 
whom  this  famous  helmet  was  first  made  had  a head  of  a prodigious  size  ; but  the  worst  is,  that 
there  is  at  least  one  half  of  it  wanting;. ” 

Sancho  could  not  forbear  smiling  to  hear  his  master  call  the  barber’s  basin  a helmet ; and,  had 
not  his  fear  dashed  his  mirth,  he  had  certainly  laughed  outright. 

“ What  does  the  fool  grin  at  now  ? ” cried  Don  Ouixote. 

“ 1 laugh,"  said  he,  “ to  think  what  a huge  jolt-head  he  must  needs  have  had  who  was  the  owner 
of  this  same  helmet,  that  looks  for  all  the  world  like  a barber’s  basin.” 

“ I fancy,”  said  Don  Ouixote,  “ this  enchanted  helmet  has  fallen  by  some  strange  accident  into 
the  hands  of  some  person,  who,  not  knowing  the  value  of  it,  for  the  lucre  of  a little  money,  finding 
it  to  be  of  pure  gold,  melted  one  half,  and  of  the  other  made  this  head-piece,  which,  as  thou  sayest, 
has  some  resemblance  to  a barber’s  basin  ; but  to  me,  who  know  the  worth  of  it,  the  metamorphosis 
signifies  little  ; for  as  soon  as  ever  I come  to  some  town  where  there  is  an  armourer,  I will  have  it 
altered  so  much  for  the  better,  that  then  even  the  helmet  which  the  God  of  Smiths  made  for  the 
God  of  War  shall  not  deserve  to  be  compared  with  it.  In  the  meantime  I’ll  wear  it  as  it  is  ; it  is 
better  than  nothing,  and  will  serve  at  least  to  save  part  of  my  head  from  the  violent  encounter  of  a 
•stone.” 

“ Ay,  that  it  will,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ so  it  is  not  hurled  out  of  a sling,  as  were  those  at  the  battle 
between  the  two  armies,  when  they  hit  you  that  dowse  o’  the  chops,  that  saluted  your  worship’s 
cheek-teeth,  and  broke  the  pot  about  your  ears  in  which  you  kept  that  blessed  drench  that  made  me 
bring  up  my  stomach." 

“True,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “there  I lost  my  precious  balsam  indeed;  but  I do  not  much 
repine  at  it,  for  thou  knowest  I have  the  recipe  in  my  memory.” 

“ So  have  I,  too,"  quoth  Sancho,  “and  shall  have  while  I have  breath  to  draw  : but  if  ever  I 
make  any  of  that  stuff,  or  taste  it  again,  may  I give  up  the  ghost  with  it ! Besides,  I don’t  intend 
ever  to  do  anything  that  may  give  occasion  for  the  use  of  it : for  my  fixed  resolution  is,  with  all  my 
five  senses,  to  preserve  myself  from  hurting  and  from  being  hurt  by  anybody.  As  to  being  tossed  in 
a blanket  again,  I have  nothing  to  say  to  that,  for  there  is  no  remedy  for  accidents  but  patience,  it 
seems  : so  if  it  ever  be  my  lot  to  be  served  so  again,  I’ll  shrug  up  my  shoulders,  hold  my 
breath,  shut  my  eyes,  and  then,  happy  be  lucky,  let  the  blanket  and  fortune  toss  me  on  to  the 
end  of  the  chapter." 

“ Truly,”  said  Don  Ouixote,  “ I am  afraid  thou  art  no  good  Christian,  Sancho  ; thou  never 
forgettest  injuries.  Let  me  tell  thee,  it  is  the  part  of  noble  and  generous  spirits  to  pass  by  trifles. 
Where  art  thou  lame  ? which  of  thy  ribs  is  broken,  or  what  part  of  thy  skull  is  bruised,  that  thou 
canst  never  think  on  that  jest  without  malice  ? for,  after  all,  it  was  nothing  but  a jest,  a harmless  piece 
of  pastime  : had  I looked  upon  it  otherwise,  I had  returned  to  that  place  before  this  time,  and  had 
made  more  noble  mischief  in  revenge  of  your  quarrel  than  ever  the  incensed  Grecians  did  at  Troy, 
for  the  detention  of  their  Helen,  that  famed  beauty  of  the  ancient  world  ; who,  however,  had  she 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


lived  in  our  age,  or  had  my  Dulcinea  adorned  her’s,  would  have  found  her  charms  outrivalled  by  my 
mistress’s  perfections  : ” and  saying  this,  he  heaved  up  a deep  sigh. 

“ Well,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I will  not  rip  up  old  sores  ; let  it  go  for  a jest,  since  there  is  no 
revenging  it  in  earnest.  But  what  shall  we  do  with  this  dapple-grey  steed,  that  is  so  like  a grey 
ass  ? You  see  that  same  poor  caitiff  has  left  it  to  shift  for  itself,  poor  thing  ! and  by  his  haste  to 
scour  off,  I don’t  think  he  means  to  come  back  for  it ; and,  by  my  beard,  the  grey  beast  is  a special 
one.” 

“ It  is  not  my  custom,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “to  plunder  those  whom  I overcome;  nor  is  it 
usual  among  us  knights  for  the  victor  to  take  the  horse  of  his  vanquished  enemy  and  let  him  go 
afoot,  unless  his  own  steed  be  killed  or  disabled  in  the  combat  : therefore,  Sancho,  leave  the  horse, 
or  the  ass,  whatever  thou  pleasest  to  call  it;  the  owner  will  be  sure  to  come  for  it  as  soon  as  he  sees, 
us  gone.” 

“ I have  a huge  mind  to  take  him  along  with  us,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ or  at  least  to  exchange  hiro 
for  my  own,  which  is  not  so  good.  What ! are  the  laws  of  knight-errantry  so  strict,  that  a man  must, 
not  exchange  one  ass  for  another?  At  least,  I hope  they  will  give  me  leave  to  swop  one  harness  for 
another.” 

“Truly,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “I  am  not  so  very  certain  as  to  this  last  particular;  and 
therefore,  till  I am  better  informed,  I give  thee  leave  to  exchange  the  furniture,  if  thou  hast 
absolutely  occasion  for  it.” 

“ I have  so  much  occasion  for  it,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  though  it  were  for  my  own  very  self,  1 
could  not  need  it  more.” 

So  without  anymore  ado,  being  authorised  by  his  master’s  leave,  he  made  mutatio  capparum  (a 
change  of  caparisons),  and  made  his  own  beast  three  parts  in  four  better  for  his  new  furniture. 
This  done,  they  breakfasted  upon  what  they  left  at  supper,  and  quenched  their  thirst  at  the  stream 
that  turned  the  fulling-mills,  towards  which  they  took  care  not  to  cast  an  eye,  for  they  abominated 
the  very  thoughts  of  them.  Thus  their  spleen  being  eased,  their  choleric  and  melancholic  humours 
assuaged,  up  they  got  again,  and  never  minding  their  way,  were  all  guided  by  Rozinante’s 
discretion,  the  depository  of  his  master’s  will,  and  also  of  the  ass’s,  that  kindly  and  sociably  always 
followed  his  steps  wherever  he  went.  Their  guide  soon  brought  them  again  into  the  high  road, 
where  they  kept  on  a slow  pace,  not  caring  which  way  they  went. 

As  they  jogged  on  thus,  quoth  Sancho  to  his  master,  “ Pray,  sir,  will  you  give  me  leave  to  talk 
to  you  a little  ? for  since  you  have  laid  that  bitter  command  upon  me,  to  hold  my  tongue,  I have 
nad  four  or  five  quaint  conceits  that  have  rotted  in  my  gizzard,  and  now  I have  another  at  my 
tongue’s  end  that  I would  not  for  anything  should  miscarry.” 

“ Say  it,”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “but  be  short,  for  no  discourse  can  please  when  too  long.” 

“Well,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I have  been  thinking  to  myself  of  late  how  little  is  to  be  got  by 
hunting  up  and  down  those  barren  woods  and  strange  places,  where,  though  you  compass  the 
hardest  and  most  dangerous  jobs  of  knight-errantry,  yet  no  living  soul  sees  or  hears  on’t,  and  so  it 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

I j2 

is  every  bit  as  good  as  lost ; and  therefore  methinks  it  were  better  (with  submission  to  your 
worship’s  better  judgment,  be  it  spoken)  that  we  e’en  went  to  serve  some  emperor,  or  other  great 
prince  that  is  at  war  ; for  there  you  might  show  how  stout  and  how  wondrous  strong  and  wise  you 
be  ; which,  being  perceived  by  the  lord  we  shall  serve,  he  must  needs  reward  each  of  us  according 
to  his  deserts  ; and  there  you  will  not  want  a learned  scholar  to  set  down  all  your  high  deeds,  that 
they  may  never  be  forgotten  : as  for  mine,  I say  nothing,  since  they  are  not  to  be  named  the  same 
day  with  your  worship’s  ; and  yet  I dare  avouch,  that  if  any  notice  be  taken  in  knight-errantry  ot 

the  feats  of  squires,  mine  will  be  sure  to  come  in  for  a share. 

“ Truly,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ there  is  some  reason  in  what  thou  sayest ; but  first  of 
all  it  is  requisite  that  a knight-errant  should  spend  some  time  in  various  parts  of  the  world,  as  a 
probationer  in  quest  of  adventures,  that,  by  achieving  some  extraordinary  exploits,  his  renown  may 
diffuse  itself  through  neighbouring  climes  and  distant  nations  : so  when  he  goes  to  the  court  of 
some  great  monarch,  his  fame  flying  before  him  as  his  harbinger,  secures  him  such  a reception,  that 
the  knight  has  scarcely  reached  the  gates  of  the  metropolis  of  the  kingdom,  when  he  finds  himself 
attended  and  surrounded  by  admiring  crowds,  pointing  and  crying  out,  ‘ There,  there  rides  the 
Knight  of  the  Sun,  or  of  the  Serpent,’  or  whatever  other  title  the  knight  takes  upon  him.  ‘ That  is 
he,’  they  will  cry,  ‘ who  vanquished  in  single  combat  the  huge  giant  Brocabruno,  surnamed  of  the 
invincible  strength  ; this  is  he  that  freed  the  great  Mamaluco  of  Persia  from  the  enchantment  that 
had  kept  him  confined  for  almost  nine  hundred  years  together.’  Thus,  as  they  relate  his  achieve- 
ments with  loud  acclamations,  the  spreading  rumour  at  last  reaches  the  king’s  palace,  and  the 
monarch  of  that  country,  being  desirous  to  be  informed  with  his  own  eyes,  will  not  fail  to  look  out 
of  his  window.  As  soon  as  he  sees  the  knight,  knowing  him  by  his  arms,  or  the  device  on  his 
shield,  he  will  be  obliged  to  say  to  his  attendants,  ‘ My  lords  and  gentlemen,  haste  all  of  > ou,  as 
many  as  are  knights,  go  and  receive  the  flower  of  chivalry  that  is  coming  to  our  court.’  At  the 
king’s  command,  away  they  all  run  to  introduce  him;  the  king  himself  meets  him  half  way  on  the 
stairs,  where  he  embraces  his  valorous  guest,  and  kisses  his  cheek:  then,  taking  him  by  the  hand, 
he  leads  him  directly  to  the  queen’s  apartment,  where  the  knight  finds  her  attended  by  the  princess, 
her  daughter,  who  must  be  one  of  the  most  beautiful  and  most  accomplished  damsels  in  the  whole 
compass  of  the  universe.  At  the  same  time  Fate  will  so  dispose  of  everything,  that  the  princess 
shall  gaze  on  the  knight,  and  the  knight  on  the  princess,  and  each  shall  admire  one  another  as 
persons  rather  angelical  than  human  ; and  then,  without  knowing  how,  they  shall  both  find  them- 
selves caught  and  entangled  in  the  inextricable  net  of  love,  and  wondrously  perplexed  for  want 
of  an  opportunity  to  discover  their  amorous  anguish  to  one  another.  After  this,  doubtless,  the 
knight  is  conducted  by  the  king  to  one  of  the  richest  apartments  in  the  palace  ; where,  having  taken 
off  his  armour,  they  will  bring  him  a rich  scarlet  vestment  lined  with  ermine ; and  if  he  looked  so 
graceful  cased  in  steel,  how  lovely  will  he  appear  in  all  the  heightening  ornaments  of  courtiers  ! 
Night  being  come,  he  shall  sup  with  the  king,  the  queen,  and  the  princess  ; and  shall  all  the  while 
be  feasting  his  eyes  with  the  sight  of  the  charmer,  yet  so  as  nobody  shall  perceive  it ; and  she  will 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 33 


repay  him  his  glances  with  as  much  discretion  ; for,  as  I have  said,  she  is  a most  accomplished 
person.  After  supper  a surprising  scene  unexpectedly  appears:  enter  first  an  ill-favoured  little 
dwarf,  and  after  him  a fair  damsel  between  two  giants,  with  the  ofter  of  a certain  adventure  so 
contrived  by  an  ancient  necromancer,  and  so  difficult  to  be  performed,  that  he  who  shall  undertake 
and  end  it  with  success,  shall  be  esteemed  the  best  knight  in  the  world.  Presently  it  is  the  king’s 
pleasure  that  all  his  courtiers  should  attempt  it ; which  they  do,  but  all  of  them  unsuccessfully  ; for 
the  honour  is  reserved  for  the  valorous  stranger,  who  effects  that  with  ease  which  the  rest  essayed 
in  vain  ; and  then  the  princess  shall  be  overjoyed,  and  esteem  herself  the  most  happy  creature  in 
the  world,  for  having  bestowed  her  affections  on  so  deserving  an  object.  Now,  by  the  hapoy 
appointment  of  Fate,  this  king,  or  this  emperor,  is  at  war  with  one  of  his  neighbours  as  powerful  as 
himself,  and  the  knight  being  informed  of  this,  after  he  has  been  some  few  days  at  court,  offers  the 
king  his  service  ; which  is  accepted  with  joy,  and  the  knight  courteously  kisses  the  king’s  hand  in 
acknowledgment  of  so  great  a favour.  That  night  the  lover  takes  his  leave  of  the  princess  at  the 
iron  grate  before  her  chamber-window  looking  into  the  garden,  wrhere  he  and  she  have  already  had 
several  interviews,  by  means  of  the  princess’s  confidante.  The  knight  sighs,  the  princess  swoons, 
and  the  damsel  runs  for  cold  water  to  bring  her  to  life  again.  At  last  the  princess  revives,  and  gives 
the  knight  her  lovely  hand  to  kiss  through  the  iron  grate  ; which  he  does  a thousand  and  a thousand 
times,  bathing  it  all  the  while  with  his  tears.  Then  they  agree  how  to  transmit  their  thoughts  in 
secrecy  to  each  other,  with  a mutual  intercourse  of  letters,  during  this  fatal  absence.  The  princess 
prays  him  to  return  with  all  the  speed  of  a lover  ; the  knight  promises  it  with  repeated  vows,  and  a 
thousand  kind  protestations.  At  last,  the  fatal  moment  being  come  that  must  tear  him  from  all  he 
loves,  and  from  his  very  self,  he  seals  once  more  his  love  on  her  soft,  snowy  hand,  almost  breathing 
out  his  soul,  which  mounts  to  his  lips,  and  even  would  leave  its  body  to  dwell  there ; and  then  he 
is  hurried  away  by  the  confidante.  After  this  cruel  separation  he  retires  to  his  chamber,  and 
throws  himself  on  his  bed  ; but  grief  will  not  suffer  sleep  to  close  his  eyes.  Then  rising  with  the 
sun,  he  goes  to  take  his  leave  of  the  king  and  the  queen  : he  desires  to  pay  his  compliment  of  leave 
to  the  princess,  but  he  is  told  she  is  indisposed  ; and  as  he  has  reason  to  believe  that  his  departing 
is  the  cause  of  her  disorder,  he  is  so  grieved  at  the  news,  that  he  is  ready  to  betray  the  secret  of  his 
heart,  which  the  princess’s  confidante  observing,  she  goes  and  acquaints  her  with  it,  and  finds  the 
lovely  mourner  bathed  in  tears,  who  tells  her  that  the  greatest  affliction  of  her  soul  is  her  not 
knowing  whether  her  charming  knight  be  of  royal  blood  : but  the  damsel  pacifies  her,  assuring  her 
that  so  much  gallantry,  and  such  noble  qualifications,  were  unquestionably  derived  from  an  illustrious 
and  royal  original.  This  comforts  the  afflicted  fair,  who  does  all  she  can  to  compose  her  looks,  lest 
the  king  or  the  queen  should  suspect  the  cause  of  their  alteration ; and  so  some  days  after  she 
appears  in  public  as  before.  And  now  the  knight,  having  been  absent  for  some  time,  meets,  fights, 
and  overcomes  the  king’s  enemies,  takes  I do  not  know  how  many  cities,  wins  I do  not  know  how 
many  battles,  returns  to  court,  and  appears  before  his  mistress  laden  with  honour.  He  visits  her 
privately  as  before,  and  they  agree  that  he  shall  demand  her  of  the  king,  her  father,  in  marriage,  as 


DON  OU1XOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

1 54  x- 

the  reward  of  all  his  services  ; but  the  king  will  not  grant  his  suit,  as  being  unacquainted  with  his 
birth  : however,  whether  it  be  that  the  princess  suffers  herself  to  be  privately  carried  away,  or  that 
some  other  means  are  used,  the  knight  marries  her,  and  in  a little  time  the  king  is  very  well  pleased 
with  the  match  : for  now  the  knight  appears  to  be  the  son  of  a mighty  king  of  I cannot  tell  what 
country,  for  I think  it  is  not  in  the  map.  Some  time  after  the  father  dies,  the  princess  is  heiress, 
and  thus  in  a trice  our  knight  comes  to  be  king.  Having  thus  completed  his  happiness,  his  next 
thoughts  are  to  gratify  his  squire,  and  all  those  who  have  been  instrumental  in  his  advancement  to 
the  throne  : thus  he  marries  his  squire  to  one  of  the  princess’s  damsels,  and  most  probably  to  her 
favourite,  who  is  daughter  to  one  of  the  most  considerable  dukes  in  the  kingdom.” 

“ That  is  what  I have  been  looking  for  all  this  while,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ give  me  but  that,  and  let 
the  world  rub,  there  I’ll  stick  ; for  every  tittle  of  this  will  come  to  pass,  and  be  your  worship’s  case,  as 
sure  as  a gun,  if  you  will  take  upon  you  that  same  nickname  of  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure.” 

“ Most  certainly,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ for  by  the  same  steps,  and  in  that  very 
manner,  knights- errant  have  always  proceeded  to  ascend  to  the  throne ; therefore  our  chief  business 
is  to  find  out  some  great  potentate,  either  among  the  Christians  or  the  Pagans,  that  is  at  war  with 
his  neighbours,  and  has  a fair  daughter.  But  we  shall  have  time  enough  to  inquire  after  that ; for 
as  I have  told  thee,  we  must  first  purchase  fame  in  other  places,  before  we  presume  to  go  to  court. 
Another  thing  makes  me  more  uneasy  : suppose  we  have  found  out  a king  and  a princess,  and  I 
have  filled  the  world  with  the  fame  of  my  unparalleled  achievements,  yet  cannot  I tell  how  to  find 
out  that  I am  of  royal  blood,  though  it  were  but  second  cousin  to  an  emperor  ; for  it  is  not  to  be 
expected  that  the  king  will  ever  consent  that  I shall  wed  his  daughter  until  I have  made  this  out  by 
authentic  proofs,  though  my  service  deserve  it  never  so  much  ; and  thus,  for  want  of  a punctilio,  I 
am  in  danger  of  losing  what  my  valour  so  justly  merits.  It  is  true,  indeed,  I am  a gentleman,  and 
of  a noted  ancient  family,  and  possessed  of  an  estate  of  a hundred  and  twenty  crowns  a year  ; nay, 
perhaps  the  learned  historiographer  who  is  to  write  the  history  of  my  life  will  so  improve  and 
beautify  my  genealogy,  that  he  will  find  me  to  be  the  fifth,  or  sixth  at  least,  in  descent  from  a king  : 
for,  Sancho,  there  are  two  sorts  of  originals  in  the  world  ; some  who,  sprung  from  mighty  kings  and 
princes,  by  little  and  little  have  been  so  lessened  and  obscured,  that  the  estates  and  titles  of  the 
following  generations  have  dwindled  to  nothing,  and  ended  in  a point  like  a pyramid;  others  who, 
from  mean  and  low  beginnings,  still  rise  and  rise,  till  at  last  they  are  raised  to  the  very  top  of  human 
frreatness : so  vast  the  difference  is,  that  those  who  were  something  are  now  nothincr,  and  those  that 
were  nothing  are  now  something.  And  therefore  who  knows  but  that  I may  be  one  of  those  whose 
original  is  so  illustrious  ? which  being  handsomely  made  out,  after  due  examination,  ought 
undoubtedly  to  satisfy  the  king,  my  father-in-law.  But  even  supposing  he  were  still  refractory,  the 
princess  is  to  be  so  desperately  in  love  with  me,  that  she  will  marry  me  without  his  consent,  though 
I were  a son  of  the  meanest  water-carrier.  If  she  refuse,  it  may  not  be  amiss  to  put  a pleasant 
constraint  upon  her,  by  conveying  her  by  force  out  of  the  reach  of  her  father,  to  whose  persecutions 
either  time  or  death  will  be  sure  to  put  a period.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


T35 


“ Ay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ wild  fellows  have  a saying  that  is  pat  to  your  purpose — ‘ Never  cringe 
nor  creep,  for  what  you  by  force  may  reap;  ’ though  I think  it  were  better  said,  1 A leap  from  a 
hedge  is  better  than  the  prayer  of  a good  man.’  I say  this,  because,  if  the  king,  your  father-in-law, 
won’t  let  you  have  his  daughter  by  fair  means,  there  is  no  more  to  be  done,  as  your  worship  says, 
but  fairly  and  squarely  to  run  away  with  her.  All  the  mischief  that  I fear  is  only  that  while  you 
are  making  your  peace  with  him,  and  waiting  after  a dead  man’s  shoes,  as  the  saying  is,  the  poor 
dog  of  a squire  is  like  to  go  long  barefoot,  and  may  go  hang  himself  for  any  good  you  will  be  able 
to  do  him,  unless  the  damsel,  Go-Between,  who  is  to  be  his  wife,  run  away  too  with  the  princess,  and 
lie  solace  himself  with  her  till  a better  time  comes;  for  I don’t  see  but  that  the  knight  may  clap  up 
the  match  between  us  without  any  more  ado.” 

“That  is  most  certain,”  answered  Don  Quixote. 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ let  us  even  take  our  chance,  and  let  the  world  rub.’' 

“ May  Fortune  crown  our  wishes  ! ’’  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  let  him  be  wretched  who  thinks 
himself  so.” 

“Amen,  say  I,”  quoth  Sancho;  “for  I am  one  of  your  old  Christians,  and  that  is  enough  to 
quamy  me  to  be  an  earl.” 

“ And  more  than  enough,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ for  though  thou  wert  not  so  well  descended, 
being  a king  I could  bestow  nobility  on  thee,  without  putting  thee  to  the  trouble  of  buying  it,  or 
doing  me  the  least  service  ; and  making  thee  an  earl,  men  must  call  thee  my  lord,  though  it  grieves 
mem  never  so  much.” 

“ And  do  you  think,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I should  not  become  my  equality  main  well  ? ” 

“ Thou  shouldest  say  quality,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “and  not  equality.” 

“ Even  as  you  will,”  returned  Sancho  : “ but,  as  I was  saying,  I should  become  an  earldom 
rarely  ; for  I was  once  beadle  to  a brotherhood,  and  the  beadle’s  gown  did  so  become  me,  that 
everybody  said  I had  the  presence  of  a warden.  Then  how  do  you  think  I should  look  with  a 
duke’s  robes  on  my  back,  all  bedaubed  with  gold  and  pearl,  like  any  foreign  count  ? I believe  we 
shall  have  folks  come  a hundred  leagues  to  see  me.” 

“Thou  wilt  look  well  enough,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “but  then  thou  must  shave  that  rough,  bushy 
beard  of  thine  at  least  every  other  day,  or  people  will  read  thy  beginning  in  thy  face  as  soon  as 
they  see  thee.” 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ it  is  but  keeping  a barber  in  my  house;  and  if  needs  be,  he  shall 
trot  after  me  wherever  I go,  like  a grandee’s  master  of  the  horse.” 

“ How  earnest  thou  to  know,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  grandees  have  their  masters  of  the 
horse  to  ride  after  them?  ” 

“ I’ll  tell  you,”  quoth  Sancho  : “ some  years  ago  I happened  to  be  about  a month  among  your 
court  folks,  and  there  I saw  a little  dandiprat  riding  about,  who,  they  said,  was  a huge  great  lord: 
there  was  a man  on  horseback  that  followed  him  close  wherever  he  went,  turning  and  stopping  as  he 
did  ; you  would  have  thought  he  had  been  tied  to  his  horse’s  tail.  With  that  I asked  why  that  hind 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


136 

man  did  not  ride  by  the  other,  but  still  came  after  him  thus  ; and  they  told  me  he  was  master  of  his 
horses,  and  that  the  grandees  have  always  such  kind  of  men  at  their  tail : and  I marked  this  so  well, 
that  I have  not  forgot  it  since.” 

“ Thou  art  in  the  right,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  thou  mayest  as  reasonably  have  thy  barber 
attend  thee  in  this  manner.  Customs  did  not  come  up  all  at  once,  but  rather  started  up  and  were 
improved  by  degrees  ; so  thou  mayest  be  the  first  earl  that  rode  in  state  with  his  barber  behind  him  ; 
and  this  may  be  said  to  justify  thy  conduct,  that  it  is  an  office  of  more  trust  to  shave  a man’s  beard 
than  to  saddle  a horse.” 

"\\  ell,  quoth  Sancho,  “leave  the  business  of  the  barber  to  me,  and  do  but  take  care  you  be  a 
king  and  I an  earl.” 

“Never  doubt  it,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  and  with  that,  looking  about,  he  discovered — what  the 
next  chapter  will  tell  you. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

HOW  DON  QUIXOTE  SET  FREE  MANY  MISERABLE  CREATURES,  WIIO  WERE  BEING  TAKEN,  MUCH  AGAINST 

THEIR  WILLS,  TO  A PLACE  THEY  DID  NOT  LIKE. 

CID  HAMET  BENENGELI,  an  Arabian  and  Manchegan  author,  relates  in  this  most 
grave,  high-sounding,  minute,  soft,  and  humorous  history,  that  after  this  discourse  between 
the  renowned  Don  Quixote  and  his  squire  Sancho  Panza,  which  we  have  laid  down  at  the  end  of  the 
twentieth  chapter,  the  knight,  lifting  up  his  eyes,  saw  about  twelve  men  a-foot,  trudging  in  the  road 
all  in  a row,  one  behind  another,  like  beads  upon  a string,  being  linked  together  by  the  neck  to  a 
huge  iron  chain,  and  manacled  besides.  They  were  guarded  by  two  horsemen,  armed  with 
carabines,  and  two  men  a-foot  with  swords  and  javelins.  As  soon  as  Sancho  spied  them,  “ Look  ye, 
sir,”  cried  he  ; “ here  is  a gang  of  wretches  hurried  away  by  main  force  to  serve  the  king  in  the 
galleys.” 

“ How  ! ” replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ is  it  possible  the  king  will  force  anybody  ? ” 

“ I don’t  say  so,”  answered  Sancho ; “ I mean  these  are  rogues  whom  the  law  has  sentenced 
for  their  misdeeds,  to  row  in  the  king’s  galleys.” 

“However,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “they  are  forced,  because  they  do  not  go  of  their  '• 

#own  free  will.” 

18 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


138 

“ Sure  enough,”  quoth  Sancho. 

If  it  be  so,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ they  come  within  the  verge  of  my  office,  which  is  to  hinder 
violence  and  oppression,  and  succour  all  people  in  misery.” 

“ Ay,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  neither  the  king  nor  law  offers  any  violence  to  such  wicked 
wretches  ; they  have  but  their  deserts.” 

By  this  the  chain  of  slaves  came  up,  when  Don  Quixote,  in  very  civil  terms,  desired  the  guards 
to  inform  him  why  these  people  were  led  along  in  that  manner. 

“ Sir,"  answered  one  of  the  horsemen,  “ they  are  criminals,  condemned  to  serve  the  king  in  his 
galleys  : that  is  all  I have  to  say  to  you,  and  you  need  inquire  no  farther.” 

“Nevertheless,  sir,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ I have  a great  desire  to  know  in  few  words  the 
cause  of  their  misfortune,  and  I will  esteem  it  an  extraordinary  favour  if  you  will  let  me  have  that 
satisfaction.” 

“ We  have  here  the  copies  and  certificates  of  their  several  sentences,”  said  the  other  horseman, 
“but  we  can’t  stand  to  pull  them  out  and  read  them  now;  you  may  draw  near  and  examine  the 
men  yourself : I suppose  they  themselves  will  tell  you  why  they  are  condemned  ; for  they  are  such 
honest  people,  they  are  not  ashamed  to  boast  of  their  rogueries.” 

With  this  permission,  which  Don  Quixote  would  have  taken  himself  had  they  denied  it  him, 
he  rode  up  to  the  chain,  and  asked  the  first  for  what  crimes  he  was  in  these  miserable  circumstances. 
The  gahey-slave  answered  him  that  it  was  for  being  in  love.  “ What  ! only  for  being  in  love  ? ” 
cried  Don  Quixote;  “were  all  those  that  are  in  love  to  be  used  thus,  I myself  might  have  been  long 
since  in  the  galleys.” 

“ Ay,  but,”  replied  the  slave,  “ my  love  was  not  of  that  sort  which  you  conjecture  : I was  so 
desperately  in  love  with  a basket  of  linen,  and  embraced  it  so  close,  that  had  not  the  judge  taken  it 
from  me  by  force,  I would  not  have  parted  with  it  willingly.  In  short,  I was  taken  in  the  fact,  and 
so  there  was  no  need  to  put  me  to  the  rack  ; it  was  proved  so  plain  upon  me.  So  I was  committed, 
tried,  condemned,  had  the  gentle  lash;  and  besides  that,  was  sent,  for  three  years,  to  be  an  element- 
dasher  ; and  there  is  an  end  of  the  business.” 

“ An  element-dasher  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ what  do  you  mean  by  that  ? ” 

“ A galley-slave,”  answered  the  criminal,  who  was  a young  fellow,  about  four-and-twenty  years 
old,  and  said  he  was  born  at  Piedra  Plita. 

Then  Don  Quixote  examined  the  second,  but  he  was  so  sad  and  desponding,  that  he  would 
make  no  answer  ; however,  the  first  rogue  informed  the  knight  of  his  affairs.  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ this 
canary  bird  keeps  us  company  for  having  sung  too  much.” 

“ Is  it  possible  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ are  men  sent  to  the  galleys  for  singing  ? ” 

“ Ay,  marry  are  they,”  quoth  the  arch  rogue  ; “ for  there  is  nothing  worse  than  to  sing  in 
anguish.” 

o 

“ How  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ that  contradicts  the  saying,  ‘ Sing  away  sorrow,  cast  away 
care.’  ” 


1 


Don  Quixote  asked  the  first  for  what  crimes  he  was  in  these  miserable  circumstances.”—^.  138. 


14° 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Ay  but  with  us  the  case  is  different,”  replied  the  slave  ; “ he  that  sings  in  disaster  weeps  all 
his  life  after." 

« xhis  is  a riddle  which  I cannot  unfold,”  cried  Don  Quixote. 

“Sir”  said  one  of  the  guards,  “singing  in  anguish,  among  these  gaol-birds,  means  to  confess 
upon  the  rack  • this  fellow  was  put  to  the  torture,  and  confessed  his  crime,  which  was  stealing  of 
cattle  ; and  because  he  squeaked,  or  sung,  as  they  call  it,  he  was  condemned  to  the  galleys  for  stx 
years,  besides  a hundred  jerks  with  a cat-o’-nine-tails  that  have  whisked  and  powdered  h.s  shoulders 
already.  Now  the  reason  why  he  goes  thus  mopish  and  out  o'  sorts,  is  only  because  his  fellow- 
romies  jeer  and  laugh  at  him  continually  for  not  having  had  the  courage  to  deny  ; as  if  it  had  not 
been  as  easy  for  him  to  have  said  • No’  as  ' Yes;'  or  as  if  a fellow,  taken  up  on  suspicion,  were 
not  a lucky  rogue,  when  there  is  no  positive  evidence  can  come  in  against  him  but  his  own  tongue  ; 
and  in  my  opinion  they  are  somewhat  in  the  right. 

“ I think  so  too,”  said  Don  Quixote. 

Thence  addressing  himself  to  the  third,  “ And  you,”  said  he,  “ what  have  you  done  ? ” 

..  Sir>“  ansWered  the  fellow,  readily  and  pleasantly  enough,  “ I must  mow  the  great  meadow  for 

five  years  together,  for  want  of  twice  five  ducats. 

“ I will  give  twenty  with  all  my  heart,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ to  deliver  thee  from  that  misery." 

“Thank  you  for  nothing,”  quoth  the  slave  ; “it  is  just  like  the  proverb,  • After  meat  comes 
mustard  ; ’ or  like  money  to  a starving  man  at  sea,  when  there  are  no  victuals  to  be  bought  with  it : 
had  I had  the  twenty  ducats  you  offer  me  before  I was  tried,  to  have  greased  the  clerk’s  pen, 
and  whetted  my  lawyer’s  wit,  I might  have  been  now  at  Toledo,  in  the  market-place  of  Zocodover. 
and  not  have  been  thus  led  along  like  a dog  in  a string.  But  Heaven  is  powerful.  Patience! 

I say  no  more.” 

After  these  came  a man  about  thirty  years  old,  a clever,  well-set,  handsome  fellow,  only  he 
squinted  horribly  with  one  eye  : he  was  strangely  loaded  with  irons  ; a heavy  chain  clogged  his  leg 
and  was  so  loner,  that  he  twisted  it  about  his  waist  like  a girdle  ; he  had  a couple  of  collars  about  his 
neck,  the  one  to  link  him  to  the  rest  of  the  slaves,  and  the  other  one  of  those  iron-ruffs  which  they 
call  a keep-friend,  or  a friend’s  foot ; from  whence  two  irons  went  down  to  his  middle,  and  to  their 
two  bars  were  riveted  a pair  of  manacles  that  griped  him  by  the  fists,  and  were  secured  with  a 
large  padlock  ; so  that  he  could  neither  lift  his  hands  to  his  mouth,  nor  bend  down  h.s  head 
towards  his  hands.  Don  Quixote  inquired  why  he  was  worse  hampered  with  irons  than  the  rest. 

“ Because  he  alone  has  done  more  rogueries  than  all  the  rest,”  answered  one  of  the  guards. 
“ This  is  such  a reprobate,  such  a villain,  that  no  gaol  nor  fetters  will  hold  him  ; we  are  not  sure  he 
is  fast  enough,  for  all  he  is  chained  so. 

“ What  sort  of  crimes,  then,  has  he  been  guilty  of,"  asked  Don  Quixote,  “ that  he  is  only  sent  to 
the  galleys  ? ” 

“ Why,”  answered  the  keeper,  “ he  is  condemned  to  ten  years’  slavery,  which  is  no  better  than 
a civil  death  : but  I need  not  stand  to  tell  you  any  more  of  him,  but  that  he  is  that  notorious  rogue, 
Gines  de  Passamonte,  alias  Ginesillo  de  Parapilla. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


141 

“ Hark  you,  sir,”  cried  the  slave,  “fair  and  softly;  what  makes  you  give  a gentleman  more  names 
than  he  has  ? Gines  is  my  Christian  name,  and  Passamonte  my  surname,  and  not  Ginesillo,  nor 
Parapilla,  as  you  say.  Blood  ! let  every  man  mind  what  he  says,  or  it  may  prove  the  worse  for  him.” 

“ Don’t  you  be  so  saucy,  Mr.  Crack-rope,”  cried  the  officer  to  him,  “ or  I may  chance  to  make 
you  keep  a better  tongue  in  your  head.” 

“ It  is  a sign,”  cried  the  slave,  “that  a man  is  fast,  and  under  the  lash  ; but  one  day  or  other 
somebody  shall  know  whether  I am  called  Parapilla  or  no.” 

“ Why,  Mr.  Slip-string,”  replied  the  officer,  “ do  not  people  call  you  by  that  name  ? ” 

“ They  do,”  answered  Gines,  “ but  I’ll  make  them  call  me  otherwise,  or  I’ll  fleece  and  bite 
them  worse  than  I care  to  tell  you  now. — But  you,  sir,  who  are  so  inquisitive,”  added  he,  turning  to 
Don  Quixote,  “ if  you  have  a mind  to  give  us  anything,  pray  do  it  quickly,  and  go  your  ways  ; 
for  I don’t  like  to  stand  here  answering  questions.  I am  Gines  de  Passamonte  ; I am  not 
ashamed  of  my  name.  As  for  my  life  and  conversation,  there  is  an  account  of  them  in  black  and 
white,  written  with  this  numerical  hand  of  mine.” 

“ There  he  tells  you  true,”  said  the  officer,  “for  he  has  written  his  own  history  himself,  without 
omitting  a tittle  of  his  roguish  pranks  ; and  he  has  left  the  manuscript  in  pawn  in  the  prison  for  two 
hundred  reals.” 

“ Ay,”  said  Gines,  “ and  will  redeem  it,  though  it  lay  there  for  as  many  ducats.” 

“ Then  it  must  be  an  extraordinary  piece,”  cried  Don  Quixote. 

“ So  extraordinary,”  replied  Gines,  “ that  it  far  outdoes  not  only  Lazarillo  de  Tormes,  but 
whatever  has  been  and  shall  be  written  in  that  kind  ; for  mine  is  true  every  word,  and  no  invented 
stories  can  compare  with  it  for  variety  of  tricks  and  accidents.” 

“ What  is  the  title  of  the  book  ? ” asked  Don  Quixote. 

“ The  life  of  Gines  de  Passamonte,”  answered  the  other. 

“ Is  it  quite  finished  ?”  asked  the  knight. 

“ How  can  it  be  finished  and  I yet  living  ? ” replied  the  slave.  “ There  is  in  it  every  material 
point,  from  my  cradle  to  this  my  last  going  to  the  galleys.” 

“ Then  it  seems  you  have  been  there  before,”  said  Don  Quixote 

“ To  serve  God  and  the  king,  I was  some  four  years  there  once  before,”  replied  Gines  : “ T 
already  know  how  the  biscuit  agrees  with  my  carcase  : it  does  not  grieve  me  much  to  go  there 
again,  for  there  I shall  have  leisure  to  give  a finishing  stroke  to  my  book.  I have  a great  many 
things  to  add  ; and  in  our  Spanish  galleys  there  is  always  leisure  and  idle  time  enough  o’conscience  : 
neither  shall  I want  so  much  for  what  I have  to  insert,  for  I know  it  all  by  heart.” 

“ Thou  seemest  to  be  a witty  fellow,”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“You  should  have  said  unfortunate,  too,”  replied  the  slave;  “for  Fortune  is  still  unkind  to 
men  of  wit.” 

“You  mean  to  such  wicked  wretches  as  yourself,”  cried  the  officer. 

“ Look  you,  Mr.  Commissary,”  said  Gines,  “ I have  already  desired  you  to  use  good  language. 
The  law  did  not  give  us  to  your  keeping  for  you  to  abuse  us,  but  only  to  conduct  us  where  the  king 


142 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


has  occasion  for  us.  Let  every  man  mind  his  own  business,  and  give  good  words,  or  hold  his 
tongue  ; for — I will  say  no  more,  murder  will  out  ; there  will  be  a time  when  some  people’s  rogueries 
may  come  to  light,  as  well  as  those  of  other  folks.” 

With  that  the  officer,  provoked  by  the  slave’s  threats,  held  up  his  staff  to  strike  him  ; but  Don 
Quixote  stepped  between  them,  and  desired  him  not  to  do  it,  and  to  consider  that  the  slave  was  the 
more  to  be  excused  for  being  too  free  of  his  tongue,  since  he  had  ne’er  another  member  at  liberty. 
Then  addressing  himself  to  all  the  slaves,  “ My  dearest  brethren,”  cried  he,  “ I find,  by  what  I 
gather  from  your  own  words,  that  though  you  deserve  punishment  for  the  several  crimes  of  which 
you  stand  convicted,  yet  you  suffer  execution  of  the  sentence  by  constraint,  and  merely  because  you 
cannot  help  it.  Besides,  it  is  not  unlikely  but  that  this  man’s  want  of  resolution  upon  the  rack,  the 
other’s  want  of  money,  the  third’s  want  of  friends  and  favour,  and,  in  short,  the  judges  perverting 
and  wresting  the  law  to  your  great  prejudice,  may  have  been  the  cause  of  your  misery.  Now,  as 
Heaven  has  sent  me  into  the  world  to  relieve  the  distressed,  and  free  suffering  weakness  from  the 
tyranny  of  oppression,  according  to  the  duty  of  my  profession  of  knight-errantry,  these  considerations 
induce  me  to  take  you  under  my  protection.  But  because  it  is  the  part  of  a prudent  man  not  to  use 
violence  where  fair  means  may  be  effectual,  I desire  you,  gentlemen  of  the  guard,  to  release  these 
poor  men,  there  being  people  enough  to  serve  his  majesty  in  their  places  ; for  it  is  a hard  case  to 
make  slaves  of  men  whom  God  and  nature  made  free  ; and  you  have  the  less  reason  to  use  these 
wretches  with  severity,  seeing  they  never  did  you  any  wrong.  Let  them  answer  for  their  sins 
in  the  other  world  ; Heaven  is  just,  you  know,  and  will  be  sure  to  punish  the  wicked,  as  it  will 
certainly  reward  the  good.  Consider  besides,  gentlemen,  that  it  is  neither  a Christian-like  nor  an 
honourable  action  for  men  to  be  the  butchers  and  tormentors  of  one  another  ; principally,  when  no 
advantage  can  arise  from  it.  I choose  to  desire  this  of  you,  with  so  much  mildness,  and  in  so 
peaceable  a manner,  gentlemen,  that  I may  have  occasion  to  pay  you  a thankful  acknowledgment, 
if  you  will  be  pleased  to  grant  so  reasonable  a request ; but  if  you  provoke  me  by  refusal,  I must  be 
obliged  to  tell  ye,  that  this  lance,  and  this  sword,  guided  by  this  invincible  arm,  shall  force  you  to 
yield  that  to  my  valour  which  you  deny  to  my  civil  entreaties.” 

“ A very  good  jest,  indeed  ! ” cried  the  officer.  “ What  makes  you  dote  at  such  a rate  ? would 
you  have  us  set  at  liberty  the  king’s  prisoners,  as  if  we  had  authority  to  do  it,  or  you  to  command 
it  ? Go,  go  about  your  business,  good  Sir  Errant,  and  set  your  basin  right  upon  your  empty  pate, 
and  pray  do  not  meddle  any  further  in  what  does  not  concern  you,  for  those  who  will  play  with  cats 
must  expect  to  be  scratched.” 

“Thou  art  a cat,  and  a rat,  and  a coward  to  boot!”  cried  Don  Quixote;  and  with  that  he  attacked 
the  officer  with  such  a sudden  and  surprising  fury,  that  before  he  had  any  time  to  put  himselt  into 
a posture  of  defence,  he  struck  him  down,  dangerously  wounded  with  his  lance  ; and,  as  Fortune  had 
ordered  it,  this  happened  to  be  the  horseman  who  was  armed  with  a carbine.  His  companions 
stood  astonished  at  such  a bold  action,  but  at  last  fell  upon  the  champion  with  their  swords  and 
darts,  which  might  have  proved  fatal  to  him,  had  not  the  slaves  laid  hold  of  this  opportunity  to 
break  the  chain,  in  order  to  regain  their  liberty  ; for,  the  guards  perceiving  their  endeavours  to  get 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 43 


lo'ose,  thought  it  more  material  to  prevent  them,  than  to  be  fighting  a madman  : but,  as  he  pressed 
them  vigorously  on  one  side,  and  the  slaves  were  opposing  them  and  freeing  themselves  on  the 
other,  the  hurlyburly  was  so  great,  and  the  guards  so  perplexed,  that  they  did  nothing  to  the 
purpose.  In  the  meantime,  Sancho  was  helping  Gines  de  Passamonte  to  get  off  his  gyves,  which 
he  did  sooner  than  can  be  imagined ; and  then  that  active  desperado  having  seized  the  wounded 
officer's  sword  and  carbine,  he  joined  Don  Quixote,  and  sometimes  aiming  at  one  and  sometimes  at 
the  other,  as  if  he  had  been  ready  to  shoot  them,  yet  still  without  letting  off  the  piece,  the  other 
slaves  at  the  same  time  pouring  volleys  of  stone-shot  at  the  guards,  they  betook  themselves  to  their 
heels,  leaving  Don  Quixote  and  the  criminals  masters  of  the  field.  Sancho,  who  was  always  for 
taking  care  of  the  main  chance,  was  not  at  all  pleased  with  this  victory  ; for  he  guessed  that  the 
guards  who  were  fled  would  raise  a hue  and  cry,  and  soon  be  at  their  heels  with  the  whole  posse  of 
the  holy  brotherhood,  and  lay  them  up  for  a rescue  and  rebellion.  This  made  him  advise  his 
master  to  get  out  of  the  way  as  fast  as  he  could,  and  hide  himself  in  the  neighbouring  mountains. 

“ I hear  you,”  answered  Don  Quixote  to  this  motion  of  his  squire,  “ and  I know  what  I have 
to  do.” 

Then  calling  to  him  all  the  slaves,  who  by  this  time  had  uncased  the  keeper  to  his  skin,  they 
gathered  about  him  to  know  his  pleasure,  and  he  spoke  to  them  in  this  manner  : — 

“It  is  the  part  of  generous  spirits  to  have  a grateful  sense  of  the  benefits  they  receive,  no  crime 
being  more  odious  than  ingratitude.  You  see,  gentlemen,  what  I have  done  for  your  sakes,  and  you 
cannot  but  be  sensible  how  highly  you  are  obliged  to  me.  Now  all  the  recompence  I require  is, 
only  that  every  one  of  you,  laden  with  that  chain  from  which  I have  freed  your  necks,  do  instantly 
repair  to  the  city  of  Toboso  ; and  there  presenting  yourselves  before  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso, 
tell  her  that  her  faithful  votary,  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Countenance,  commanded  you  to  wait  on 
her,  and  assure  her  of  his  profound  veneration.  Then  you  shall  give  her  an  exact  account  of  every 
particular  relating  to  this  famous  achievement,  by  which  you  once  more  taste  the  sweets  of  liberty ; 
which  done,  I give  you  leave  to  seek  your  fortunes  where  you  please.” 

To  this  the  ringleader  and  master  thief,  Gines  de  Passamonte,  made  answer  for  all  the  rest. 
“ What  you  would  have  us  do,”  said  he,  “ our  noble  deliverer,  is  absolutely  impracticable  and 
impossible ; for  we  dare  not  be  seen  all  together  for  the  world.  We  must  rather  part,  and  skulk 
some  one  way,  some  another,  and  lie  snug  in  creeks  and  corners  under  ground,  for  fear  of  those 
man-hounds  that  will  be  after  us  with  a hue  and  cry  ; therefore  all  we  can  and  ought  to  do  in  this 
case,  is  to  change  this  compliment  and  homage  which  you  would  have  us  pay  to  the  Lady  Dulcinea 
del  Toboso,  into  a certain  number  of  Ave  Marias  and  Creeds,  which  we  will  say  for  your  worship’s 
benefit ; and  this  may  be  done  by  night  or  by  day,  walking  or  standing,  and  in  war  as  well  as  in 
peace  : but  to  imagine  we  will  return  to  our  flesh-pots  of  Egypt,  that  is  to  say,  take  up  our  chains 
again,  and  lug  them  no  man  knows  whither,  is  as  unreasonable  as  to  think  it  is  night  now  at  ten 
o clock  in  the  morning.  Sdeath,  to  expect  this  from  us,  is  to  expect  pears  from  an  elm-tree.  ’ 

‘Now,  by  my  sword,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ Sir  Ginesello  de  Parapilla,  or  whatever  be  your 


144 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


name,  you  yourself,  alone,  shall  go  to  Toboso,  like  a dog  that  has  scalded  his  tail,  with  the  whole 
chain  about  your  shoulders.” 

Gines,  who  Avas  naturally  very  choleric,  judging  by  Don  Quixote’s  extravagance  in  freeing 
them,  that  he  was  not  very  wise,  winked  on  his  companions,  who,  like  men  that  understood  signs, 
presently  fell  back  to  the  right  and  left,  and  pelted  Don  Quixote  with  such  a shower  of  stones,  that 
all  his  dexterity  to  cover  himself  with  his  shield  was  now  ineffectual,  and  poor  Rozinante  no  more 
obeyed  the  spur  than  if  he  had  been  only  the  statue  of  a horse.  As  for  Sancho,  he  got  behind  his 
ass,  and  there  sheltered  himself  from  the  volleys  of  flints  that  threatened  his  bones,  while  his  master 
was  so  battered,  that  in  a little  time  he  was  thrown  out  of  his  saddle  to  the  ground.  He  was  no 
sooner  down,  but  one  of  the  gang  leaped  on  him,  took  off  his  basin  from  his  head,  gave  him  three 
or  four  thumps  on  the  shoulders  Avith  it,  and  then  gave  it  so  many  knocks  against  the  stones,  that  he 
almost  broke  it  to  pieces.  After  this,  they  stripped  him  of  his  upper  coat,  and  had  robbed  him  of 
his  hose  too,  but  that  his  grea\res  hindered  them.  They  also  eased  Sancho  of  his  upper  coat,  and 
left  him  in  his  doublet;  then,  having  divided  the  spoils,  they  shifted  every  one  for  himself,  thinking 
more  hoAA’’  to  avoid  being  taken  up,  and  linked  again  in  the  chain,  than  of  trudging  Avith  it  to  my 
Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso.  Thus  the  ass,  Rozinante,  Sancho,  and  Don  Quixote  remained  indeed 
masters  of  the  field,  but  in  an  ill  condition  ; the  ass  hanging  his  head,  and  pensive,  shaking  his  ears 
noA\r  and  then,  as  if  the  volleys  of  stones  had  still  whizzed  about  them  ; Rozinante  lying  in  a 
desponding  manner,  for  he  had  been  knocked  down  as  Avell  as  his  unhappy  rider  ; Sancho  uncased 
to  his  doublet,  and  trembling  for  fear  of  the  holy  brotherhood  ; and  Don  Quixote  filled  with  sullen 
regret,  to  find  himself  so  barbarously  used  by  those  whom  he  had  so  highly  obliged. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 


WHAT  BEFELL  THE  RENOWNED  DON  QUIXOTE  IN  THE  SIERRA  MORENA  (BLACK  MOUNTAIN)  BEING  ONE 
OF  THE  RAREST  ADVENTURES  IN  THIS  AUTHENTIC  HISTORY. 

DON  QUIXOTE,  finding  himself  so  ill  treated,  said  to  his  squire,  “ Sancho,  I have  always 
heard  it  said,  that  to  do  a kindness  to  clowns  is  like  throwing  water  into  the  sea.  Had  I 
given  ear  to  thy  advice,  I had  prevented  this  misfortune  ; but  since  the  thing  is  done,  it  is  needless 
to  repine  ; this  shall  be  a warning  to  me  for  the  future.” 

“Your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ will  as  much  take  warning,  as  I am  a Turk  : but  since  you 
say  you  had  escaped  this  mischief  had  you  believed  me,  good  sir,  believe  me  now,  and  you  will 
•escape  a greater  ; for  I must  tell  you  that  the  holy  brotherhood  does  not  stand  in  awe  of  your 
chivalry,  nor  do  they  care  a straw  for  all  the  knights-errant  in  the  world.  Methinks  I already 
hear  their  arrows  whizzing  about  my  ears.” 

“ Thou  art  naturally  a coward,  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “nevertheless,  that  thou  mayest  not 
say  I am  obstinate,  and  never  follow  thy  advice,  I will  take  thy  counsel,  and  for  once  convey  myself 
■out  of  the  reach  of  this  dreadful  brotherhood,  that  so  strangely  alarms  thee  ; but  upon  this 
condition,  that  thou  never  tell  any  mortal  creature,  neither  while  I live,  nor  after  my  death,  that  I 
withdrew  myself  from  this  danger  through  fear,  but  merely  to  comply  with  thy  entreaties  : for  if 
thou  ever  presume  to  say  otherwise,  thou  wilt  belie  me  ; and  from  this  time  to  that  time,  and  from 

19 


Sancho,  I have  always  heard  it  said,  that  to  do  a kindness  to  clowns,  is  like  throwing  water  into  the  sea.” — 145. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


147 


that  time  to  the  world’s  end,  I give  thee  the  lie,  and  thou  liest,  and  shalt  lie  in  thy  throat,  as  often 
ns  thou  sayest  or  but  thi nicest  to  the  contrary.  Therefore  do  not  offer  to  reply  ; for  shouldest  thou 
but  surmise  that  I would  avoid  any  danger,  and  especially  this  which  seems  to  give  some  occasion 
or  colour  for  fear,  I would  certainly  stay  here,  though  unattended  and  alone,  and  expect  and  face  not 
only  the  holy  brotherhood,  which  thou  dreadest  so  much,  but  also  the  fraternity  or  twelve  heads  of 
the  tribes  of  Israel,  the  seven  Maccabees,  Castor  and  Pollux,  and  all  the  brothers  and  brotherhoods 
in  the  universe.’’ 

“ An’t  please  your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ to  withdraw  is  not  to  run  away,  and  to  stay  is  no 
wise  action,  when  there  is  more  reason  to  fear  than  to  hope  ; it  is  the  part  of  a wise  man  to  keep 
himself  to-day  for  to-morrow,  and  not  venture  all  his  eggs  in  one  basket.  And  for  all  I am  but  a 
clown,  or  a bumpkin,  as  you  may  say,  yet  I would  have  you  to  know  I know  what’s  what,  and  have 
always  taken  care  of  the  main  chance  ; therefore  do  not  be  ashamed  of  being  ruled  by  me,  but  even 
get  on  horseback  an  you  are  able  : come,  I will  help  you,  and  then  follow  me  ; for  my  mind  plaguily 
misgives  me,  that  now  one  pair  of  heels  will  stand  us  in  more  stead  than  two  pair  of  hands.” 

Don  Quixote,  without  any  reply,  made  shift  to  mount  Rozinante,  and  Sancho  on  his  ass  led  the 
way  to  the  neighbouring  mountainous  desert,  called  Sierra  Morena,  which  the  crafty  squire  had  a 
design  to  cross  over,  and  get  out  at  the  farthest  end,  either  at  Viso,  or  Almadovar  del  Campo,  and 
in  the  meantime  to  lurk  in  the  craggy  and  almost  inaccessible  retreats  of  that  vast  mountain,  for 
fear  of  falling  into  the  hands  of  the  holy  brotherhood.  He  was  the  more  eager  to  steer  this  course, 
finding  that  the  provision  which  he  had  laid  on  his  ass  had  escaped  plundering,  which  was  a kind  of 
miracle,  considering  how  narrowly  the  galley-slaves  had  searched  everywhere  for  booty.  It  was 
night  before  our  two  travellers  got  to  the  middle  and  most  desert  part  -of  the  mountain,  where 
Sancho  advised  his  master  to  stay  some  days,  at  least  as  long  as  their  provisions  lasted  ; and 
accordingly  that  night  they  took  up  their  lodging  between  two  rocks,  among  a great  number  of 
cork-trees  ; but  Fortune,  which,  according  to  the  opinion  of  those  that  have  not  the  light  of  true  faith, 
guides,  appoints,  and  contrives  all  things  as  it  pleases,  directed  Gines  de  Passamonte  (that  master 
rogue,  who,  thanks  be  to  Don  Quixote’s  fcrce  and  foil)-,  had  been  put  in  a condition  to  do  him  a 
mischief)  to  this  very  part  of  the  mountain,  in  order  to  hide  himself  till  the  heat  of  the  pursuit,  which 
lie  had  just  cause  to  fear,  were  over.  He  discovered  our  adventurers  much  about  the  time  that 
they  fell  asleep  ; and  as  wicked  men  are  always  ungrateful,  and  urgent  necessity  prompts  many  to 
do  things  at  the  very  thoughts  of  which  they  perhaps  would  start  at  other  times,  Gines,  who  was  a 
stranger  both  to  gratitude  and  humanity,  resolved  to  ride  away  with  Sancho’s  ass  ; for  as  for 
Rozinante,  he  looked  upon  him  as  a thing  that  would  neither  sell  nor  pawn  : so  while  poor  Sancho 
lay  snoring,  he  spirited  away  his  darling  beast,  and  made  such  haste,  that  before  day  lie  thought 
himsell  and  his  prize  secure  from  the  unhappy  owner’s  pursuit. 

Now  Aurora  with  her  smiling  face  returned  to  enliven  and  cheer  the  earth,  but  alas!  to  grieve 
and  aftright  Sancho  with  a dismal  discovery  : for  he  had  no  sooner  opened  his  eyes,  but  he  missed 
his  ass  ; and  finding  himself  deprived  of  that  dear  partner  of  his  fortunes,  and  best  comfoit  in  his 


It  was  night  before  our  two  travellers  got  to  the  most  desert  part  of  the  mountain.”  A 147 


DON  QUIXOTE  DX  LA  MANCHA. 


WJ 

peregrinations,  he  broke  out  into  the  most  pitiful  and  sad  lamentations  in  the  world  ; insomuch  that 
he  waked  Don  Quixote  with  his  moans.  “Oh,  dear  child  ! ” cried  he,  “born  and  bred  under  my 
roof,  my  children’s  play-fellow,  the  comfort  of  my  wife,  the  envy  of  my  neighbours,  tlie  ease  of 
my  burthens,  the  staff  of  my  life,  and,  in  a word,  half  my  maintenance ; for  with  six-and-twenty 
maravedis,  which  were  daily  earned  by  thee,  I made  shift  to  keep  half  my  family.” 

Don  Quixote,  who  easily  guessed  the  cause  of  these  complaints,  strove  to  comfort  him  with  kind, 
condoling  words,  and  learned  discourses  upon  the  uncertainty  of  human  happiness  ; but  nothing 
Droved  so  effectual  to  assuage  his  sorrow,  as  the  Dromise  which  his  master  made  him  of  drawino-  a 
bill  of  exchange  on  his  niece  for  three  asses  out  of  five  which  he  had  at  home,  payable  to  Sancho 
Panza,  or  his  order  ; which  prevailing  argument  soon  dried  up  his  tears,  hushed  his  sighs  and 
moans,  and  turned  his  complaints  into  thanks  to  his  generous  master  for  so  unexpected  a favour. 

And  now,  as  they  wandered  further  in  these  mountains,  Don  Quixote  was  transported  with  joy 
to  find  himself  where  he  might  flatter  his  ambition  with  the  hopes  of  fresh  adventures  to  signalise 
his  valour ; for  these  vast  deserts  made  him  call  to  mind  the  wonderful  exploits  of  other  knights- 
errant  performed  in  such  solitudes.  Filled  with  those  airy  notions,  he  thought  on  nothing  else  : 
but  Sancho  was  for  more  substantial  food  ; and  now,  thinking  himself  quite  out  of  the  reach  of  the 
holy  brotherhood,  his  only  care  was  to  fill  his  belly  with  the  relics  of  the  clerical  booty ; and  thus 
sitting  sideling,  as  women  do,  upon  his  beast,  he  slily  took  out  now  one  piece  of  meat,  then  another, 
and  kept  his  grinders  going  faster  than  his  feet.  Thus  plodding  on,  he  would  not  have  given 
a rush  to  have  met  with  any  other  adventure. 

While  he  was  thus  employed,  he  observed  that  his  master  endeavoured  to  take  up  something 

i 

that  lay  on  the  ground  with  the  end  of  his  lance  : this  made  him  run  to  help  him  to  lift  up  the 
bundle,  which  proved  to  be  a portmanteau,  and  the  seat  of  a saddle,  that  was  half  or  rather  quite 
rotted  with  lying  exposed  to  the  weather.  The  portmanteau  was  somewhat  heavy,  and  Don  Quixote 
having  ordered  Sancho  to  see  what  it  contained,  though  it  was  shut  with  a chain  and  a padlock,  he 
easily  saw  what  was  in  it  through  the  crack,  and  pulled  out  four  fine  holland  shirts,  and  other  clean 
and  fashionable  linen,  besides  a considerable  quantity  of  gold  tied  up  in  a handkerchief. 

“ Bless  my  eye-sight!”  quoth  Sancho  ; “and  now,  Heaven,  I thank  thee  for  sending  us  such  a 
lucky  adventure  once  in  our  lives.”  With  that,  groping  further  in  the  portmanteau,  he  found  a 
table-book  richly  bound. 

“ Give  me  that,"  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  do  thou  keep  the  gold.” 

“Heaven  reward  your  worship!”  quoth  Sancho,  kissing  his  master’s  hand,  and  at  the  same 
time  clapping  up  the  linen  and  the  other  things  into  the  bag  where  he  kept  the  victuals. 

“ I fancy,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  some  person  having  lost  his  way  in  these  mountains, 
has  been  met  by  robbers,  who  have  murdered  him,  and  buried  his  body  somewhere  here- 
abouts.” 

“ Sure  your  worship’s  mistaken,"  answered  Sancho.  “ for,  had  they  been  highwaymen,  they 
would  never  have  left  such  a booty  behind  them.” 


gratitude  and  humanity,  resolved  to  ride  away  with  Sancho’s  ass.  p.  U7- 


Gines,  who  was  a stranger  both  to 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


15  r 

“ Thou  art  in  the  right,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  therefore  I cannot  imagine  what  it  must 
be.  But  stay,  I will  examine  the  table-book  ; perhaps  we  shall  find  something  written  in  that,  which 
will  help  us  to  discover  what  I would  know.”  With  that  he  opened  it,  and  the  first  thing  he  found 
was  the  following  rough  draught  of  a sonnet,  fairly  enough  written  to  be  read  with  ease ; so  he 
read  it  aloud,  that  Sancho  might  know  what  was  in  it  as  well  as  himself. 

THE  RESOLVE. 

A SONNET. 

Love  is  a god  ne’er  knows  our  pain, 

Or  cruelty’s  his  darling  attribute  ; 

Else  he'd  ne’er  force  me  to  complain, 

And  to  his  spite  my  raging  pain  impute. 

Tut  sure,  if  Love's  a god,  he  must 
Have  knowledge  equal  to  his  power  ; 

And  ’tis  a crime  to  think  a god  unjust  : 

Whence  then  the  pains  that  now  my  heart  devour? 

From  Phyllis?  No  : why  do  I pause  ? 

Such  cruel  ills  ne'er  boast  so  sweet  a cause  ; 

Nor  from  the  gods  such  torments  we  do  bear. 

Let  death,  then,  quickly  be  my  cure  : 

When  thus  we  ills  unknown  endure, 

’Tis  shortest  to  despair. 

“ There’s  not  much  can  be  picked  out  of  this,”  quoth  Sancho,  “unless  you  can  tell  who  that 
same  Phyll  is.” 

“ I did  not  read  Phyll,  but  Phyllis,”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“Oh,  then,  mayhap,  the  man  has  lost  his  filly-foal.” 

“ Phyllis,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ is  the  name  of  a lady  that  is  beloved  by  the  author  of  this 
sonnet,  who  truly  seems  to  be  a tolerable  poet,  or  I have  but  little  judgment.” 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ belike  your  worship  understands  how  to  make  verses  too  ? ” 

“ That  I do,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ and  better  than  thou  imaginest ; as  thou  shalt  see  when 
I shall  give  thee  a letter  written  all  in  verse  to  carry  to  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  : for  I must 
tell  thee,  friend  Sancho,  all  the  knights-errant,  or  at  least  the  greatest  part  of  them,  in  former  times, 
were  great  poets,  and  as  great  musicians  ; those  qualifications,  or,  to  speak  better,  those  two  gifts, 
or  accomplishments,  being  almost  inseparable  from  love  adventures  : though  I must  confess  the 
verses  of  the  knights  in  former  ages  are  not  altogether  so  polite,  nor  so  adorned  with  words,  as  with 
thoughts  and  inventions.” 

“ Good  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ look  again  into  the  pocket-book  ; mayhap  you  will  find  somewhat 
that  will  inform  you  of  what  you  would  know.” 

With  that,  Don  Quixote  turning  over  the  leaf,  “ Here’s  some  prose,”  cried  he,  a and  I think  it  is 
the  sketch  of  a love-letter.” 

“ Oh  ! good  your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ read  it  out  by  all  means,  for  I delight  mightily  in 
hearing  of  love-stories.” 


. . . . t , , himself  where  he  mi-ht  flatter  his  ambition  with  the  hopes  of  fresh  adventures 

" Don  Quixote  was  transported  with  joy  to  find  himse 


mmmA 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 53 


Don  Quixote  read  it  aloud,  and  found  what  follows. 

“ The  falsehood  of  your  promises,  and  my  despair,  hurry  me  from  you  for  ever  ; and  you  shall 
sooner  hear  the  news  of  my  death  than  the  cause  of  my  complaints.  You  have  forsaken  me, 
ungrateful  fair,  for  one  more  wealthy  indeed,  but  not  more  deserving  than  your  abandoned  slave. 
Were  virtue  esteemed  a treasure  equal  to  its  worth  by  your  unthinking  sex,  I must  presume  to  say, 
I should  have  no  reason  to  envy  the  wealth  of  others,  and  no  misfortune  to  bewail.  What  your 
beauty  has  raised,  your  actions  have  destroyed;  the  first  made  me  mistake  you  for  an  angel,  but  the 
last  convince  me  you  are  a very  woman.  However,  oh  ! too  lovely  disturber  of  my  peace,  may 
uninterrupted  rest  and  downy  ease  engross  your  happy  hours  ; and  may  forgiving  Heaven  still  keep 
your  husband's  perfidiousness  concealed,  lest  it  should  cost  your  repenting  heart  a sigh  for  the 
injustice  you  have  done  to  so  faithful  a lover,  and  so  I should  be  prompted  to  a revenge  which  I do 
not  desire  to  take.  Farewell.” 

“This  letter,”  quoth  Don  Quixote,  “does  not  give  us  any  further  insight  into  the  things  we 
would  know  ; all  I can  infer  from  it  is,  that  the  person  who  wrote  it  was  a betrayed  lover.” 

And  so  turning  over  the  remaining  leaves,  he  found  several  other  letters  and  verses,  some  of 
which  were  legible,  and  some  so  scribbled  that  he  could  make  nothing  of  them.  As  for  those  he 
read,  he  could  meet  with  nothing  in  them  but  accusations,  complaints  and  expostulations,  distrusts 
and  jealousies,  pleasures  and  discontents,  favours  and  disdain — the  one  highly  valued,  the  other  as 
mournfully  resented.  And  while  the  knight  was  poring  on  the  table-book,  Sancho  was  rummaging 
the  portmanteau  and  the  seat  of  the  saddle  with  that  exactness,  that  he  did  not  leave  a corner 
unsearched,  nor  a seam  unripped,  nor  a single  lock  of  wool  unpicked  ; for  the  gold  he  had  found, 
which  was  above  a hundred  ducats,  had  but  whetted  his  greedy  appetite,  and  made  him  wild 
for  more.  Yet,  though  this  was  all  he  could  find,  he  thought  himself  well  paid  for  the  more  than 
Herculean  labours  he  had  undergone  ; nor  could  he  now  repine  at  his  being  tossed  in  a blanket,  the 
straining  and  griping  operation  of  the  balsam,  the  benedictions  of  the  pack-staves  and  leavers,  the 
fisticuffs  of  the  carrier,  the  loss  of  his  cloak,  his  dear  wallet,  and  of  his  dearer  ass,  and  all  the 
hunger,  thirst,  and  fatigue  which  he  had  suffered  in  his  kind  master’s  service.  On  the  other  side, 
the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  strangely  desired  to  know  who  was  the  owner  of  the  portmanteau, 
guessing  by  the  verses,  the  letter,  the  linen,  and  the  gold,  that  he  was  a person  of  worth,  whom  the 
disdain  and  unkindness  of  his  mistress  had  driven  to  despair.  At  length,  however,  he  gave  over  the 
thoughts  of  it,  discovering  nobody  through  that  vast  desert ; and  so  he  rode  on,  wholly  guided  by 
Rozinante’s  discretion,  which  always  made  the  grave,  sagacious  creature  choose  the  plainest  and 
smoothest  way  : the  master  still  firmly  believing  that  in  those  woody,  uncultivated  forests  he  should 
infallibly  start  some  wonderful  adventure. 

And  indeed,  while  these  hopes  possessed  him,  he  spied  upon  the  top  of  a stony  crag  just  before 
him  a man  that  skipped  from  rock  to  rock,  over  briers  anti  bushes,  with  wonderful  agility.  He 
seemed  to  him  naked  from  the  waist  upwards,  with  a thick  black  beard  ; his  hair  long  and  strangely 

tangled  ; his  head,  legs,  and  feet  bare  ; on  his  hips  a pair  of  breeches,  that  aopcared  to  be  of  sand- 

20 


iilllllli 


The  first  thing  he  found  was  the  rough  draught  of  a sonnet  ; so 


/ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


J5  5 


coloured  velvet,  but  so  tattered  and  torn,  that  they  discovered  his  skin  in  many  places.  These 
particulars  were  observed  by  Don  Quixote  while  he  passed  by,  and  he  followed  him,  endeavouring 
to  overtake  him,  for  he  presently  guessed  this  was  the  owner  of  the  portmanteau.  But  Rozinante, 
who  was  naturally  slow  and  phlegmatic,  was  in  too  weak  a case  besides  to  run  races  with  so  swift  an 
apparition  : yet  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  resolved  to  find  out  that  unhappy  creature,  though 
he  were  to  bestow  a whole  year  in  the  search  ; and  to  that  intent  he  ordered  Sancho  to  beat  one 
side  of  the  mountain,  while  he  hunted  the  other. 

“In  good  sooth,"  quoth  Sancho,  “ your  worship  must  excuse  me  as  to  that ; for  if  I but  offer  to 
stir  an  inch  from  you,  I am  almost  frighted  out  of  my  seven  senses  : and  let  this  serve  you  hereafter 
for  a warning,  that  you  may  not  send  me  a nail’s  breadth  from  your  presence.” 

“Well,”  said  the  knight,  “ I will  take  thy  case  into  consideration  ; and  it  does  not  displease  me, 
Sancho,  to  see  thee  thus  rely  upon  my  valour,  which,  I dare  assure  thee,  shall  never  fail  thee,  though 
thy  very  soul  should  be  scared  out  of  thy  body.  Follow  me,  therefore,  step  by  step,  with  as  much 
haste  as  is  consistent  with  good  speed  ; and  let  thy  eyes  pry  everywhere  while  we  search  every 
part  of  this  rock,  where,  it  is  probable,  we  may  meet  with  that  wretched  mortal,  who  doubtless  is 
the  owner  of  the  portmanteau.” 

“ Odsnigs,  sir,"  quoth  Sancho,  “ I had  rather  get  out  of  his  way ; for,  should  we  chance  to  meet 
him,  and  he  lay  claim  to  the  portmanteau,  it  is  a plain  case  I shall  be  forced  to  part  with  the  money  : 
and  therefore  I think  it  much  better,  without  making  so  much  ado,  to  let  me  keep  it  bond  fide,  till 
we  can  light  on  the  right  owner  some  more  easy  way,  and  without  dancing  after  him  ; which  may 
not  happen  till  we  have  spent  all  the  money  ; and  in  that  case  I am  free  from  the  law,  and  he  may 
go  whistle  for  it.” 

“ Thou  art  mistaken,  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ for,  seeing  we  have  some  reason  to  think 
that  we  know  who  is  the  owner,  we  are  bound  in  conscience  to  endeavour  to  find  him  out,  and 
restore  it  to  him  ; the  rather,  because  should  we  not  now  strive  to  meet  him,  yet  the  strong  pre- 
sumption we  have  that  the  goods  belong  to  him,  would  make  us  possessors  of  them  male  fide, 
and  render  us  as  guilty  as  if  the  party  whom  we  suspect  to  have  lost  the  things  were  really  the 
right  owner  ; therefore,  friend  Sancho,  do  not  think  much  of  searching  for  him,  since,  if  we  find  him 
out,  it  will  extremely  ease  my  mind.” 

With  that  he  spurred  Rozinante  ; and  Sancho,  not  very  well  pleased,  followed  him,  comforting 
himself,  however,  with  the  hopes  of  the  three  asses  which  his  master  had  promised  him.  So  when 
they  had  rode  ov6r  the  greatest  part  of  the  mountain,  they  came  to  a brook,  where  they  found  a 
mule  lying  dead,  with  her  saddle  and  bridle  about  her,  and  herself  half  devoured  by  beasts  and  birds 
of  prey  ; which  discovery  further  confirmed  them  in  their  suspicion,  that  the  man  who  fled  so  nimbly 
from  them  was  the  owner  of  the  mule  and  portmanteau.  Now  as  they  paused  and  pondered  upon 
this,  they  heard  a whistling,  like  that  of  some  shepherd  keeping  his  flocks  ; and  presently  after,  upon 
their  left  hand,  they  spied  a great  number  of  goats  with  an  old  herdsman  after  them,  on  the  top  of 
the  mountain.  Don  Quixote  called  out  to  him,  and  desired  him  to  come  down  ; but  the  goatherd 


..He  spied  upon  the  top  of  a stony  crag  just  before  him  a man  that  skipped  from  rock  to  rock  with  wonderful  agility*-/.  > S3- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


r57 

instead  of  answering  him,  asked  them  in  as  loud  a cone  how  they  came  thither  in  those  deserts, 
where  scarce  any  living  creatures  resorted  except  goats,  wolves,  and  other  wild  beasts  ? Sancho  told 
him  they  would  satisfy  him  as  to  that  point  if  he  would  come  where  they  were.  With  that  the 
goatherd  came  down  to  them  ; and  seeing  them  look  upon  the  dead  mule,  “ That  dead  mule,”  said 
the  old  fellow,  “ has  lain  in  that  very  place  this  six  months  ; but  pray  tell  me,  good  people,  have  you 
not  met  the  master  of  it  by  the  way  ? ” 

“ We  have  met  nobody,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  we  found  a portmanteau  and  a saddle- 
cushion  not  far  from  this  place.” 

“ I have  seen  it  too,”  quoth  the  goatherd,  “but  I never  durst  meddle  with  it,  nor  so  much  as 
come  near  it,  for  fear  of  some  misdemeanour,  lest  I should  be  charged  with  having  stolen  somewhat 
out  of  it  : for  who  knows  what  might  happen  ? the  devil  is  subtle,  and  sometimes  lays  baits  in  our 
way  to  tempt  us,  or  blocks  to  make  us  stumble.” 

“It  is  just  so  with  me,  gaffer,”  quoth  Sancho;  “for  I saw  the  portmanteau,  too,  d’ye  see, 
but  I would  not  come  within  a stone’s  throw  of  it ; no,  there  I found  it,  and  there  I left  it  : 
i’faith,  it  shall  e’en  lie  there  still  for  me.  He  that  steals  a bellweather  shall  be  discovered  by  the 
bell.” 

“Tell  me,  honest  friend,”  asked  Don  Quixote,  “dost  thou  know  who  is  the  owner  of  those 
things  ? ” 

“ All  I know  of  the  matter,”  answered  the  goatherd,  “ is,  that  it  is  now  six  months,  little  more  or 
less,  since  to  a certain  sheep-fold,  some  three  leagues  off,  there  came  a young,  well-featured,  proper 
gentleman  in  good  clothes,  and  under  him  this  same  mule  that  now  lies  dead  here,  with  the  cushion 
and  cloak-bag,  which  you  say  you  met,  but  touched  not.  He  asked  us  which  was  the  most  desert 
and  least  frequented  part  of  these  mountains  ; and  we  told  him  this  where  we  are  now  : and  in  that 
we  spoke  the  plain  truth,  for  should  you  venture  to  go  but  half  a league  further,  you  would  hardly  be 
able  to  get  back  again  in  haste  ; and  I marvel  how  you  could  get  even  thus  far,  for  there  is  neither 
highway  nor  foot-path  that  may  direct  a man  this  way.  Now,  as  soon  as  the  young  gentleman  had 
heard  our  answer,  he  turned  about  his  mule,  and  made  to  the  place  we  showed  him,  leaving  us  all  with 
a great  liking  to  his  comeliness,  and  strangely  marvelling  at  his  demand,  and  the  haste  he  made 
towards  the  middle  of  the  mountain.  After  that  we  heard  no  more  of  him  for  a p-reat  while,  till  one 
day  by  chance  one  of  the  shepherds  coming  by,  he  fell  upon  him,  without  saying  why  or  wherefore, 
and  beat  him  without  mercy  : after  that  he  went  to  the  ass  that  carried  our  victuals,  and,  taking 
away  all  the  bread  and  cheese  that  was  there,  he  tripped  back  again  to  the  mountain  with  wondrous 
speed.  Hearing  this,  a good  number  of  us  together  resolved  to  find  him  out ; and  when  we  had 
spent  the  best  part  of  two  days  in  the  thickest  of  the  forest,  we  found  him  at  last  lurking  in  the 
hollow  of  a huge  cork-tree,  from  whence  he  came  forth  to  meet  us  as  mild  as  could  be.  But  then  he 
was  so  altered,  his  face  was  so  disfigured,  wan,  and  sun-burnt,  that,  had  it  not  been  for  his  attire, 
which  we  made  shift  to  know  again,  though  it  was  all  in  rags  and  tatters,  we  could  not  have  thought 
it  had  been  the  same  man.  He  saluted  us  courteously,  and  told  us  in  few  words,  mighty  handsomely 


i58 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


put  together,  that  we  were  not  to  marvel  to  see  him  in  that  manner,  for  that  it  behoved  him  so  to 
be,  that  he  might  fulfil  a certain  penance  enjoined  him  for  the  great  sins  he  had  committed.  We 
prayed  him  to  tell  us  who  he  was,  but  he  would  by  no  means  do  it : we  likewise  desired  him  to  let 
us  know  where  we  might  find  him,  that  whensoever  he  wanted  victuals  we  might  bring  him  some, 
which  we  told  him  we  would  be  sure  to  do,  for  otherwise  he  would  be  starved  in  that  barren  place ; 
requesting  him,  that  if  he  did  not  like  that  motion  neither,  he  would  at  least  come  and  ask  us 
for  what  he  wanted,  and  not  take  it  by  force  as  he  had  done.  He  thanked  us  heartily  for  our  offer, 
and  begged  pardon  for  that  injury,  and  promised  to  ask  it  henceforward  as  an  alms,  without  setting 
upon  any  one.  As  for  his  place  of  abode,  he  told  us  he  had  none  certain,  but  wherever  night  caught 
him,  there  he  lay  : and  he  ended  his  discourse  with  such  bitter  moans,  that  we  must  have  had 
hearts  of  flint  had  we  not  had  a feeling  of  them,  and  kept  him  company  therein  ; chiefly  considering 
we  beheld  him  so  strangely  altered  from  what  we  had  seen  him  before  : for,  as  I said,  he  was  a very 
fine,  comely  young  man,  and  by  his  speech  and  behaviour  we  could  guess  him  to  be  well  born,  and 
a courtlike  sort  of  a body  : for  though  we  were  but  clowns,  yet  such  was  his  genteel  behaviour,  that 
we  could  not  help  being  taken  with  it.  Now  as  he  was  talking  to  us,  he  stopped  of  a sudden,  as  if 
he  had  been  struck  dumb,  fixing  his  eyes  steadfastly  on  the  ground  ; whereat  we  all  stood  in  amaze. 
After  he  had  thus  stared  a good  while,  he  shut  his  eyes,  then  opened  them  again,  bit  his  lips,  knit 
his  brows,  clutched  his  fists  ; and  then  rising  from  the  ground,  whereon  he  had  thrown  himself  a 
little  before,  he  flew  at  the  man  that  stood  next  to  him  with  such  a fury,  that  if  we  had  not  pulled 
him  off  by  main  force,  he  would  have  bit  and  thumped  him  to  death  ; and  all  the  while  he  cried 
out,  ‘Ah  ! traitor  Ferdinand,  here,  here  thou  shalt  pay  for  the  wrong  thou  hast  done  me  ; I must 
rip  up  that  false  heart  of  thine ; ’ and  a deal  more  he  added,  all  in  dispraise  of  that  same  Ferdinand. 
After  that  he  flung  from  us  without  saying  a word,  leaping  over  the  bushes  and  brambles  at  such  a 
strange  rate,  that  it  was  impossible  for  us  to  come  at  him  ; from  which  we  gathered,  that  his 
madness  comes  on  him  by  fits,  and  that  some  one  called  Ferdinand  had  done  him  an  ill  turn,  that 
hath  brought  the  poor  young  man  to  this  pass.  And  this  hath  been  confirmed  since  that  many  and 
many  times  : for  when  he  is  in  his  right  senses,  he  will  come  and  beg  for  victuals,  and  thank  us  for 
it  with  tears  ; but  when  he  is  in  his  mad  fit,  he  will  beat  us  though  we  proffer  him  meat  civilly  : and 
to  tell  you  the  truth,  sirs,”  added  the  goatherd,  “ I,  and  four  others,  of  whom  two  are  my  men,  and 
the  other  two  my  friends,  yesterday  agreed  to  look  for  him  till  we  should  find  him  out,  and  either  by 
fair  means  or  by  force  to  carry  him  to  Almodover  town,  that  is  but  eight  leagues  off ; and  there  we 
will  have  him  cured,  if  possible,  or  at  least  we  shall  learn  who  he  is  when  he  comes  to  his  wits,  and 
whether  he  has  any  friends  to  whom  he  may  be  sent  back.  This  is  all  I know  of  the  matter  ; and 
I dare  assure  you  that  the  owner  of  those  things  which  you  saw  in  the  way,  is  the  self-same  body 
that  went  so  nimbly  by  you  ; ” for  Don  Quixote  had  by  this  time  acquainted  the  goatherd  of  his 
having  seen  that  man  skipping  among  the  rocks. 

The  knight  was  wonderfully  concerned  when  he  had  heard  the  goatherd’s  story,  and  renewed 
his  resolution  of  finding  out  that  distracted  wretch,  whatever  time  and  pains  it  might  cost  him.  But 


They  came  to  a park,  where  they  found  a mule  lying  dead.1' — -p.  155. 


i6o 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Fortune  was  more  propitious  to  his  desires  than  he  could  reasonably  have  expected  : for  just  as  they 
were  speaking,  they  spied  him  right  against  the  place  where  they  stood,  coming  towards  them  out  of 
the  cleft  of  a rock,  muttering  somewhat  to  himself,  which  they  could  not  well  have  understood  had 
they  stood  close  by  him,  much  less  could  they  guess  his  meaning  at  that  distance.  His  apparel  was 
such  as  has  already  been  said,  only  Don  Quixote  observed,  when  he  drew  nearer,  that  he  had  on  a 
buff  doublet,  torn  in  many  places,  which  yet  the  knight  found  to  be  perfumed  with  amber  ; and 
by  this,  as  also  by  the  rest  of  his  clothes,  and  other  conjectures,  he  judged  him  to  be  a man  of  some 
quality.  As  soon  as  the  unhappy  creature  came  near  them,  he  saluted  them  very  civilly,  but  with  a 
hoarse  voice.  Don  Quixote  returned  his  civilities,  and,  alighting  from  Rozinante,  accosted  him  in  a 
very  graceful  manner,  and  hugged  him  close  in  his  arms,  as  if  he  had  been  one  of  his  intimate 
acquaintance.  The  other,  whom  we  may  venture  to  call  the  Knight  of  the  Ragged  Figure,  as  well 
as  Don  Onixote  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  having  got  loose  from  that  embrace,  could  not 
forbear  stepping  back  a little,  and  laying  his  hands  on  Don  Quixote’s  shoulders,  he  stood  staring- 
in  his  face,  as  if  he  had  been  striving  to  call  to  mind  whether  he  had  known  him  before,  probably 
wondering  as  much  to  behold  Don  Ouixote’s  countenance,  armour,  and  strange  figure,  as  Don 
Quixote  did  to  see  his  tattered  condition  : but  the  first  that  opened  his  mouth  after  this  pause  was 
the*  ragged  knight,  as  you  shall  find  by  the  sequel  of  the  story. 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

THE  ADVENTURE  IN  THE  SIERRA-MO  REN  A — continued. 

THE  history  relates  that  Don  Quixote  listened  with  great  attention  to  the  ragged  Knight 
of  the  Mountain,  who  made  him  the  following  compliment : — “Truly,  sir,  whoever  you  be 
(for  I have  not  the  honour  to  know  you),  I am  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  expressions  of  civility 
and  friendship  ; and  I could  wish  I were  in  a condition  to  convince  you  otherwise  than  by  words  of 
the  deep  sense  I have  of  them  : but  my  bad  fortune  leaves  me  nothing  to  return  for  so  many 
favours,  but  unprofitable  wishes.” 

“ Sir,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I have  so  hearty  a desire  to  serve  you,  that  I was  fully 
resolved  not  to  depart  these  mountains  till  I had  found  you  out,  that  I might  know  from  yourself 
whether  the  discontents  that  have  urged  you  to  make  choice  of  this  unusual  course  of  life  might 
not  admit  of  a remedy  ; for  if  they  do,  assure  yourself  I will  leave  no  means  untried,  till  I have 
purchased  you  that  ease  which  I heartily  wish  you  : or  if  your  disasters  are  of  that  fatal  kind  that 
exclude  you  for  ever  from  the  hopes  of  comfort  or  relief,  then  will  I mingle  sorrows  with  you,  and, 
by  sharing  your  load  of  grief,  help  you  to  bear  the  oppressing  weight  of  affliction  ; for  it  is  the  only 

comfort  of  the  miserable  to  have  partners  in  their  woes.  If,  then,  good  intentions  may  plead  merit, 

21 


162 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


or  a grateful  requital,  let  me  entreat  you,  sir,  by  that  generous  nature  that  shoots  through  the 
gloom  with  which  adversity  has  clouded  your  graceful  outside  ; nay,  let  me  conjure  you  by  the 
darling  object  of  your  wishes,  to  let  me  know  who  you  are,  and  what  strange  misfortunes  have 
urged  you  to  withdraw  from  the  converse  of  your  fellow-creatures,  to  bury  yourself  alive  in  this 
horrid  solitude,  where  you  linger  out  a wretched  being,  a stranger  to  ease,  to  all  mankind,  and  even 
to  your  very  self.  And  I solemnly  swear,”  added  Don  Quixote,  “ by  the  order  of  knighthood,  of 
which  I am  an  unworthy  professor,  that  if  you  so  far  gratify  my  desires,  I will  assist  you  to  the 
utmost  of  my  capacity,  either  by  remedying  your  disaster,  if  it  is  not  past  redress,  or  at  least  I will 
become  your  partner  in  sorrow,  and  strive  to  ease  it  by  a society  in  sadness.’’ 

The  Knight  of  the  Wood,  hearing  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  talk  at  that  rate,  looked 

O O o o 

upon  him  steadfastly  for  a long  time,  and  viewed  and  re-viewed  him  from  head  to  foot ; and  when 
he  had  gazed  a great  while  upon  him,  “ Sir,”  cried  he,  “ if  you  have  anything  to  eat,  for  Heaven’s 
sake  give  it  me,  and  when  my  hunger  is  abated,  I shall  be  better  able  to  comply  with  your  desires, 
which  your  great  civilities  and  undeserved  offers  oblige  me  to  satisfy.”  Sancho  and  the  goatherd, 
hearing  this,  presently  took  out  some  victuals,  the  one  out  of  his  bag,  the  other  out  of  his  scrip,  and 
gave  it  to  the  ragged  knight  to  allay  his  hunger,  who  immediately  fell  on  with  that  greedy  haste, 
that  he  seemed  rather  to  devour  than  feed  ; for  he  used  no  intermission  between  bit  and  bit,  so 
greedily  he  chopped  them  up  ; and  all  the  time  he  was  eating,  neither  he  nor  the  bystanders  spoke 
the  least  word.  When  he  had  assuaged  his  voracious  appetite,  he  beckoned  to  Don  Quixote  and 
the  rest  to  follow  him  ; and  after  he  had  brought  them  to  a neighbouring  meadow,  he  laid  himself  at 
his  ease  on  the  grass,  where  the  rest  of  the  company  sitting  down  by  him,  neither  he  nor  they 
having  yet  spoke  a word  since  he  fell  to  eating,  he  began  in  this  manner  : — 

“Gentlemen,”  said  he,  “if  you  intend  to  be  informed  of  my  misfortunes,  you  must  promise 
me  beforehand  not  to  cut  off  the  thread  of  my  doleful  narration  with  any  questions,  or  any  other 
interruption  ; for  in  the  very  instant  that  any  of  you  does  it,  I shall  leave  off  abruptly,  and  will 
not  afterwards  go  on  with  the  story.” 

This  preamble  put  Don  Quixote  in  mind  of  Sancho’s  ridiculous  tale,  which  by  his  neglect  in 
not  telling  the  goats  was  brought  to  an  untimely  conclusion.  “ I only  use  this  precaution,”  added 
the  ragged  knight,  “ because  I would  be  quick  in  my  relation,  for  the  very  remembrance  of  my 
former  misfortune  proves  a new  one  to  me ; and  yet,  I promise  you,  I will  endeavour  to  omit  nothing 
that  is  material,  that  you  may  have  as  full  an  account  oi  my  disasters  as  I am  sensible  you  desire.” 

Thereupon  Don  Quixote,  for  himself  and  the  rest,  having  promised  him  uninterrupted 
attention,  he  proceeded  in  this  manner  : — 

“ My  name  is  Cardenio,  the  place  of  my  birth  one  of  the  best  cities  in  Andalusia  ; my  descent 
noble,  my  parents  wealthy,  but  my  misfortunes  are  so  great,  that  they  have  doubtless  filled  my 
relations  with  the  deepest  of  sorrows  ; nor  are  they  to  be  remedied  with  wealth,  for  goods  of 
fortune  avail  but  little  against  the  anger  of  Heaven.  In  the  same  town  dwelt  the  charming  Lucinda, 
the  most  beautiful  creature  that  ever  Nature  framed,  equal  in  descent  and  fortune  to  myself,  but 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


163 


more  happy  and  less  constant.  I loved,  nay,  adored  her  almost  from  her  infancy  ; and  from  her 
tender  years  she  blessed  me  with  as  kind  a return  as  is  suitable  with  the  innocent  freedom  of  that 
age.  Our  parents  were  conscious  of  that  early  friendship  ; nor  did  they  oppose  the  growth  of  this 
inoffensive  passion,  which  they  perceived  could  have  no  other  consequences  than  a happy  union  of 
our  families  by  marriage — a thing  which  the  equality  of  our  births  and  fortunes  did  indeed  of  itself 
almost  invite  us  to.  Afterwards  our  loves  so  grew  up  with  our  years,  that  Lucinda’s  father,  either 
judging  our  usual  familiarity  prejudicial  to  his  daughter’s  honour,  or  for  some  other  reasons,  sent  to 
desire  me  to  discontinue  my  frequent  visits  to  his  house  : but  this  restraint  proved  but  like  that 
which  was  used  by  the  parents  of  that  loving  Thisbe,  so  celebrated  by  the  poets,  and  but  added 
flames  to  flames,  and  impatience  to  desires.  As  our  tongues  were  now  debarred  their  former 
privilege,  we  had  recourse  to  our  pens,  which  assumed  the  greater  freedom  to  disclose  the  most 
hidden  secrets  of  our  hearts  ; for  the  presence  of  the  beloved  object  often  heightens  a certain  awe 
and  bashfulness,  that  disorders,  confounds,  and  strikes  dumb  even  the  most  passionate  lover.  How 
many  letters  have  I written  to  that  lovely  charmer ! how  many  soft,  moving  verses  have  I addressed 
to  her ! what  kind  yet  honourable  returns  have  I received  from  her ! the  mutual  pledges  of  our 
secret  love,  and  the  innocent  consolations  of  a violent  passion.  At  length,  languishing  and  wasting 
with  desire,  deprived  of  that  reviving  comfort  of  my  soul,  I resolved  to  remove  those  bars  with 
which  her  father’s  care  and  decent  caution  obstructed  my  only  happiness,  by  demanding  her  of  him 
in  marriage.  He  very  civilly  told  me  that  he  thanked  me  for  the  honour  I did  him,  but  that  I had 
a father  alive,  whose  consent  was  to  be  obtained  as  well  as  his,  and  who  was  the  most  proper  person 
to  make  such  a proposal.  I thanked  him  for  his  civil  answer,  and  thought  it  carried  some  show  of 
reason,  not  doubting  but  my  father  would  readily  consent  to  the  proposal.  I therefore  immediately 
went  to  wait  on  him  with  a design  to  beg  his  approbation  and  assistance.  I found  him  in  his 
chamber  with  a letter  opened  before  him,  which,  as  soon  as  he  saw  me,  he  put  into  my  hand,  before 
I could  have  time  to  acquaint  him  with  my  business.  ‘ Cardenio,’  said  he,  ‘ you  will  see  by  this 
letter  the  extraordinary  kindness  that  Duke  Ricardo  has  for  you.’  I suppose  I need  not  tell  you, 
gentlemen,  that  this  Duke  Ricardo  is  a grandee  of  Spain,  most  of  whose  estate  lies  in  the  best  part 
of  Andalusia.  I read  the  letter,  and  found  it  contained  so  kind  and  advantageous  an  offer,  that  my 
father  could  not  but  accept  of  it  with  thankfulness  ; for  the  duke  entreated  him  to  send  me  to  him 
with  all  speed,  that  I might  be  the  companion  of  his  eldest  son,  promising  withal  to  advance  me  to 
a post  answerable  to  the  good  opinion  he  had  of  me. 

“ This  unexpected  news  struck  me  dumb  ; but  my  surprise  and  disappointment  were  much 
greater  when  I heard  my  father  say  to  me,  ‘ Cardenio,  you  must  get  ready  to  be  gone  in  two  days : 
in  the  meantime  give  Heaven  thanks  for  opening  you  a way  to  that  preferment  which  I am  so 
sensible  you  deserve.’  After  this  he  gave  me  several  wise  admonitions,  both  as  a father  and  a man 
of  business,  and  then  he  left  me.  The  day  fixed  for  my  journey  quickly  came  ; however,  the  night 
that  preceded  it  I spoke  to  Lucinda  at  her  window,  and  told  her  what  had  happened.  I also  gave 
her  father  a visit,  and  informed  him  of  it  too,  beseeching  him  to  preserve  his  good  opinion  of  me, 


164 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


and  defer  the  bestowing  of  his  daughter  till  I had  been  with  Duke  Ricarao,  which  he  kindly 
promised  me  : and  then,  Lucinda  and  I,  after  an  exchange  of  vows,  and  protestations  of  eternal 
fidelity,  took  our  leaves  of  each  other  with  all  the  grief  which  two  tender  and  passionate  lovers  can 
feel  at  a separation. 

“ I left  the  town,  and  went  to  wait  upon  the  duke,  who  received  and  entertained  me  with  that 
extraordinary  kindness  and  civility  that  soon  raised  the  envy  of  his  greatest  favourites.  But  he  that 
most  endearingly  caressed  me  was  Don  Ferdinand,  the  duke’s  second  son,  a young,  airy,  handsome, 
generous  gentleman  ; he  seemed  to  be  overjoyed  at  my  coming,  and  in  a most  obliging  manner  told 
me  he  would  have  me  one  of  his  most  intimate  friends.  In  short,  he  so  really  convinced  me  of  his 
affection,  that  though  his  elder  brother  gave  me  many  testimonies  of  love  and  esteem,  yet  could  I 
easily  distinguish  between  their  favours.  Now,  as  it  is  common  for  bosom  friends  to  keep  nothing 
secret  from  each  other,  Don  Ferdinand,  relying  as  much  on  my  fidelity  as  I had  reason  to  depend 
on  his,  revealed  to  me  his  most  private  thoughts  ; and  among  the  rest,  his  being  in  love  with  the 
daughter  of  a very  rich  farmer,  who  was  his  father’s  vassal.  The  beauty  of  that  lovely  country 
maid,  her  virtue,  her  discretion,  and  the  other  graces  of  her  mind,  gained  her  the  admiration  of  all 
those  who  approached  her  : and  those  uncommon  endowments  had  so  charmed  the  soul  of  Don 
Ferdinand,  that  he  resolved  to  marry  her.  I thought  myself  obliged,  by  all  the  ties  of  gratitude  and 
friendship,  to  dissuade  him  from  so  unsuitable  a match ; and  therefore  I made  use  of  such  arguments 
as  might  have  diverted  any  one  but  so  confirmed  a lover  from  such  an  unequal  choice.  At  last 
finding  them  all  ineffectual,  I resolved  to  inform  the  duke,  his  father,  of  his  intentions  : but  Don 
Ferdinand  was  too  clear-sighted  not  to  read  my  design  in  my  great  dislike  of  his  resolutions  ; and 
dreading  such  a discovery,  which  he  knew  my  duty  to  his  father  might  well  warrant,  in  spite  of  our 
intimacy,  since  I looked  upon  such  a marriage  as  highly  prejudicial  to  them  both,  he  made  it  his 
business  to  hinder  me  from  betraying  his  passion  to  his  father,  assuring  me  there  would  be  no  need 
to  reveal  it  to  him.  To  blind  me  the  more  effectually,  he  told  me  he  was  willing  to  try  the  power 
of  absence,  that  common  cure  of  love,  thereby  to  wear  out  and  lose  his  unhappy  passion  : and  that 
in  order  to  this,  he  would  take  a journey  with  me  to  my  father's  house,  pretending  to  buy  horses  in 
our  town,  where  the  best  in  the  world  are  bred.  No  sooner  had  I heard  this  plausible  proposal  but 
I approved  it,  swayed  by  the  interest  of  my  own  love,  that  made  me  fond  of  an  opportunity  to  see 
my  absent  Lucinda. 

“ Having  obtained  the  duke’s  leave,  away  we  posted  to  my  father’s  house,  where  Don  Ferdinand 
was  entertained  according  to  his  quality ; and  I went  to  visit  my  Lucinda,  who,  by  a thousand 
innocent  endearments,  made  me  sensible  that  her  love,  like  mine,  was  rather  heightened  than 
weakened  by  absence,  if  anything  could  heighten  a love  so  great  and  so  perfect.  I then  thought 
myself  obliged,  by  the  laws  of  friendship,  not  to  conceal  the  secrets  of  my  heart  from  so  kind  and 
intimate  a friend,  who  had  so  generously  entrusted  me  with  his ; and  therefore,  to  my  eternal  ruin, 
I unhappily  discovered  to  him  my  passion.  I praised  Lucinda’s  beauty,  her  wit,  her  virtue  ; and 
praised  them  so  like  a lover,  so  often,  and  so  highly,  that  I raised  in  him  a great  desire  to  see  so 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


165 

accomplished  a lady  ; and,  to  gratify  his  curiosity,  I showed  her  to  him  by  the  help  of  a light,  one 
evening,  at  a low  window,  where  we  used  to  have  our  interviews.  She  proved  but  too  charming, 
and  too  strong  a temptation  to  Don  Ferdinand  ; and  her  prevailing  image  made  so  deep  an 
impression  on  his  soul,  that  it  was  sufficient  to  blot  out  of  his  mind  all  those  beauties  that  had  till 
then  employed  his  thoughts.  He  was  struck  dumb  with  wonder  and  delight,  at  the  sight  of  the 
ravishing  apparition  ; and,  in  short,  to  see  her  and  to  love  her  proved  with  him  the  same  thing  : 
and  when  I say  to  love  her,  I need  not  add  to  desperation,  for  there  is  no  loving  her  but  to  an 
extreme.  If  her  face  made  him  so  soon  take  fire,  her  wit  quickly  set  him  all  in  a flame.  He  often 
importuned  me  to  communicate  to  him  some  of  her  letters,  which  I indeed  would  never  expose  to 
any  eyes  but  my  own ; but,  unhappily,  one  day  he  found  one,  wherein  she  desired  me  to  demand 
her  of  her  father,  and  to  hasten  the  marriage.  It  was  penned  with  such  tenderness  and  discretion 
that,  when  he  had  read  it,  he  presently  cried  out  that  the  charms  which  were  scattered  and 
divided  among  other  beauties  were  all  divinely  centred  in  Lucinda,  and  in  Lucinda  alone. 
Shall  I confess  a shameful  truth  ? Lucinda’s  praises,  though  never  so  deserved,  did  not  sound 
pleasantly  to  my  ears  out  of  Don  Ferdinand’s  mouth.  I began  to  entertain  I know  not  what 
distrusts  and  jealous  fears,  the  rather,  because  he  would  be  still  insensibly  turning  the  discourse  he 
held  of  other  matters,  to  make  her  the  subject,  though  never  so  far-fetched,  of  our  constant  talk. 
Not  that  I was  apprehensive  of  the  least  infidelity  from  Lucinda  : far  from  it ; she  ^ave  me  daily 
fresh  assurances  of  her  inviolable  affection  ; but  I feared  everything  from  my  malignant  stars ; and 
lovers  are  commonly  industrious  to  make  themselves  uneasy. 

“It  happened  one  day  that  Lucinda,  who  took  great  delight  in  reading  books  of  knight-errantry, 
desired  me  to  lend  her  the  romance  of  Ainadis  de  Gaul ” 

Scarce  had  Cardenio  mentioned  knight-errantry,  when  Don  Quixote  interrupted  him.  “Sir,” 
said  he,  “ had  you  but  told  me,  when  you  first  mentioned  the  Lady  Lucinda,  that  she  was  an 
admirer  of  books  of  knight-errantry,  there  had  been  no  need  of  using  any  amplification  to  convince 
me  of  her  being  a person  of  uncommon  sense  ; yet,  sir,  had  she  not  used  those  mighty  helps,  those 
infallible  guides  to  sense,  though  indulgent  Nature  had  strove  to  bless  her  with  the  richest  gifts  she 
can  bestow,  I might  justly  enough  have  doubted  whether  her  perfections  could  have  gained  her  the 
love  of  a person  of  your  merit ; but  now  you  need  not  employ  your  eloquence  to  set  forth  the 
greatness  of  her  beauty,  the  excellence  of  her  worth,  or  the  depth  of  her  sense,  for,  from  this 
account  which  I have  of  her  taking  great  delight  in  reading  books  of  chivalry,  I dare  pronounce  her 
to  be  the  most  beautiful,  nay,  the  most  accomplished  lady  in  the  universe  ; and  I heartily  could  have 
wished  that,  with  Amadis  de  Gaul,  you  had  sent  her  the  worthy  Don  Rugel  of  Greece  ; for  I am 
certain  the  Lady  Lucinda  would  have  been  extremely  delighted  with  Daryda  and  Garaya,  as  also 
with  the  discreet  shepherd  Darinel,  and  those  admirable  verses  of  his  bucolics,  which  he  sung  and 
repeated  with  so  good  a grace.  But  a time  may  yet  be  found  to  give  her  the  satisfaction  of  reading 
those  master  pieces,  if  you  will  do  me  the  honour  to  come  to  my  house,  for  there  I may  sitpply  you 
with  above  three  hundred  volumes,  which  are  my  soul’s  greatest  delight,  and  the  darling  comfort  of 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 66 

my  life  ; though  now  I remember  myself,  I have  just  reason  to  fear  there  is  not  one  of  them  left  in  1 
my  study,  thanks  to  the  malicious  envy  of  wicked  enchanters.  I beg  your  pardon  for  giving  you 
this  interruption,  contrary  to  my  promise ; but  when  I hear  the  least  mention  made  of  knight- 
errantry,  it  is  no  more  in  my  power  to  forbear  speaking  than  it  is  in  the  sunbeams  not  to  warm, 
or  in  those  of  the  moon  not  to  impart  her  natural  humidity;  and  therefore,  sir,  I beseech  you  to 
go  on.” 

While  Don  Quixote  was  running  on  with  this  impertinent  digression,  Cardenio  hung  down  his 
head  on  his  breast  with  all  the  signs  of  a man  lost  in  sorrow;  nor  could  Don  Quixote,  with  repeated 
entreaties,  persuade  him  to  look  up,  or  answer  a word.  At  last,  after  he  had  stood  thus  a consider- 
able while,  he  raised  his  head,  and,  suddenly  breaking  silence,  “ I am  positively  convinced,”  cried 
he,  “ nor  shall  any  man  in  the  world  ever  persuade  me  to  the  contrary ; and  he’s  a blockhead  who 
says  otherwise  than  that  great  villain,  Master  Elisabat,  compromised  Queen  Madasima.” 

“ It  is  false  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote,  in  a mighty  heat ; “ by  all  the  powers  above,  it  is  all  scandal 
and  base  detraction  to  say  this  of  Queen  Madasima!  She  was  a most  noble  and  virtuous  lady;  nor 
is  it  to  be  presumed  that  so  great  a princess  would  ever  debase  herself  so  far  as  to  fall  in  love  with 
a quack.  Whoever  dares  to  say  she  did,  lies  like  an  arrant  villain  ; and  I’ll  make  him  acknowledge 
it  either  a-foot  or  a-horseback,  armed  or  unarmed,  by  night  or  by  day,  or  how  he  pleases.” 

Cardenio  very  earnestly  fixed  his  eyes  on  Den  Quixote,  while  he  was  thus  defying  him,  and 
taking  Queen  Madasima’s  part,  as  if  she  had  been  his  true  and  lawful  princess;  and  being  provoked 
by  these  abuses  into  one  of  his  mad  fits,  he  took  up  a great  stone  that  lay  by  him,  and  hit  Don 
Quixote  such  a blow  on  his  breast  with  it.  that  it  beat  him  down  backwards.  Sancho,  seeing  his 
lord  and  master  so  roughly  handled,  fell  upon  the  mad  knight  with  his  clenched  fists  ; but  he  beat 
him  off  at  the  first  onset,  and  laid  him  at  his  feet  with  a single  blow,  and  then  fell  a-trampling  on  his 
stomach  like  a baker  in  a dough-trough.  Nay,  the  goatherd,  who  was  offering  to  take  Sancho’s 
part,  had  like  to  have  been  served  in  the  same  manner.  So  the  ragged  knight,  having  tumbled 
them  one  over  another,  and  beaten  them  handsomely,  left  them,  and  ran  into  the  wood,  without  the 
least  opposition. 

Sancho  got  up  when  he  saw  him  gone ; and  being  very  much  out  of  humour  to  find  himself  so 
roughly  handled  without  any  manner  of  reason,  began  to  pick  a quarrel  with  the  goatherd,  railing  at 
him  for  not  forewarning  them  of  the  ragged  knight’s  mad  fits,  that  they  might  have  stood  upon 
their  guard.  The  goatherd  answered,  he  had  given  them  warning  at  first,  and  if  he  could  not  hear, 
it  was  no  fault  of  his.  To  this  Sancho  replied,  and  the  goatherd  made  a rejoinder,  till  from  pro's 
and  cons  they  fell  to  a warmer  way  of  disputing,  and  went  to  fisty-cuffs  together,  catching  one 
another  by  the  beards,  and  tugging,  hauling,  and  belabouring  one  another  so  unmercifully,  that,  had 
not  Don  Quixote  parted  them,  they  would  have  pulled  one  another’s  chins  off.  Sancho,  in  great 
wrath,  still  keeping  his  hold,  cried  to  his  master,  “ Let  me  alone,  Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  : 
this  is  no  dubbed  knight,  but  an  ordinary  fellow  like  myself ; I may  be  revenged  on  him  for  the 
wrong  he  has  done  me  ; let  me  box  it  out.  and  fight  him  fairly  hand  to  fist,  like  a man  ! ” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

“ Thou  mayest  fight  him,  as  he  is  thy  equal,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ but  thou  oughtest  not 
to  do  it,  since  he  has  done  us  no  wrong.” 

After  this  he  pacified  them,  and  then,  addressing  himself  to  the  goatherd,  asked  him  whether 
it  was  possible  to  find  out  Cardenio  again,  that  he  might  hear  the  end  of  his  story.  The  goatherd 
answered  that,  as  he  already  told  him,  he  knew  of  no  settled  place  he  used,  but  that  if  they 
made  any  stay  thereabouts,  he  would  be  sure  to  meet  with  him,  mad  or  sober,  some  time  or  other. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

OF  THE  STRANGE  THINGS  THAT  HAPPENED  TO  THE  VALIANT  KNIGHT  OF  LA  MANCHA  IN  THE  BLACK 
MOUNTAIN;  AND  OF  THE  PENANCE  HE  DID  THERE,  IN  IMITATION  OF  BELTENEBROS,  OR  THE  LOVELY 
OBSCURE. 

DON  QUIXOTE  took  leave  of  the  goatherd,  and  having  mounted  Rozinante,  commanded 
Sancho  to  follow  him,  which  he  did,  but  with  no  very  good  will,  his  master  leading  him 
into  the  roughest  and  most  craggy  part  of  the  mountain.  Thus  they  travelled  for  a while  without 
speaking  a word  to  each  other.  Sancho,  almost  dead,  and  ready  to  burst  for  want  of  a little  chat, 
waited  with  great  impatience  till  his  master  should  begin,  not  daring  to  speak  first,  since  his  strict 
injunction  of  silence.  But  at  last,  not  being  able  to  keep  silence  any  longer,  “ Good  your  worship,” 
quoth  he,  “ give  me  your  blessing  and  leave  to  be  gone,  I beseech  you,  that  I may  go  home  to  my 
wife  and  children,  where  I may  talk  till  I am  weary,  and  nobody  can  hinder  me;  for  I must  needs 
tell  you,  that  for  you  to  think  to  lead  me  a jaunt  through  hedge  and  ditch,  over  hills  and  dales,  by 
night  and  by  day,  without  daring  to  open  my  lips,  is  to  bury  me  alive.  Could  beasts  speak,  as  they 
did  in  vdisop’s  time,  it  would  not  have  been  half  so  bad  with  me  ; for  then  might  I have  communed 
with  my  ass  as  I pleased,  and  have  forgot  my  ill  fortune  ; but  to  trot  on  in  this  fashion,  all  the  days 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA 


169 


of  my  life,  after  adventures,  and  to  light  on  nothing  but  thumps,  kicks,  and  cuffs,  and  be  tossed  in  a ' 
blanket,  and  after  all,  forsooth,  to  have  a man’s  mouth  sewed  up,  without  daring  to  speak  ones 
mind — I say  it  again,  no  living  soul  can  endure  it.” 

“ I understand  thee,  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ thou  art  impatient  to  exercise  thy 
talking  faculty.  Well,  I am  willing  to  free  thy  tongue  from  this  restraint  that  so  cruelly  pains  thee, 
upon  condition  that  the  time  of  this  licence  shall  not  extend  beyond  that  of  our  continuance  in 
these  mountains.” 

“ A match  ! ” quoth  Sancho.  “ Let  us  ‘make  hay  while  the  sun  shines  I will  talk  whilst  I may  ; 
what  I may  do  hereafter  Heaven  knows  best ! ” And  so,  beginning  to  take  the  benefit  of  his 
privilege,  “ Pray,  sir,”  quoth  he,  “ what  occasion  had  you  to  take  so  hotly  the  part  of  Queea 
Magimasa,  or  what  do  you  call  her  ? ” 

“ Upon  my  honour,  friend  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ didst  thou  but  know,  as  well  as  I 
do,  what  a virtuous  and  eminent  lady  Queen  Madasima  was,  thou  wouldst  say  I had  a great  deal  of 
patience,  seeing  I did  not  strike  that  profane  wretch  on  the  mouth,  out  of  which  such  blasphemies 
proceeded  : for,  in  short,  it  was  the  highest  piece  of  detraction  to  say  that  a queen  was  familiar  with 
a barber-surgeon  : for  the  truth  of  the  story  is,  that  this  Master  Elisabat,  of  whom  the  madman 
spoke,  was  a person  of  extraordinary  prudence  and  sagacity,  and  physician  to  that  queen,  who  also 
made  use  of  his  advice  in  matters  of  importance  ; neither  can  I believe  that  Cardenio  knew  what  he 
said,  when  he  charged  the  queen  with  that  debasing  guilt ; for  it  is  plain  that  his  raving  fit  had 
disordered  the  seat  of  his  understanding.” 

“ Why,  there  it  is,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ who  but  a madman  would  have  minded  what  a madman 
said  ? What  if  the  flint  that  hit  you  on  the  breast  had  dashed  out  your  brains  ? we  had  been  in  a 
dainty  pickle  for  taking  the  part  of  that  same  lady.  Nay,  and  Cardenio  would  have  come  off  too, 
had  he  knocked  you  on  the  head  ; for  the  law  has  nothing  to  do  with  madmen.” 

“ Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ we  knights-errant  are  obliged  to  vindicate  the  honour  of 
women  of  what  quality  soever,  as  well  against  madmen  as  against  men  in  their  senses  ; much 
more  queens  of  that  magnitude  and  extraordinary  worth  as  Queen  Madasima,  for  whose  rare 
endowments  I have  a peculiar  veneration  ; for  she  ivas  a most  beautiful  lady,  discreet  and  prudent 
to  admiration,  and  behaved  herself  with  an  exemplary  patience  in  all  her  misfortunes.  It  was  then 
that  the  company  and  wholesome  counsels  of  Master  Elisabat  proved  very  useful  to  alleviate  the 
burden  of  her  afflictions  : from  which  the  ignorant  and  ill-meaning  vulgar  took  occasion  to  invent 
scandals.  But  I say  once  more,  they  lie,  and  lie  a thousand  times,  whoever  they  be,  that  shall 
presumptuously  report,  or  hint,  or  so  much  as  think  or  surmise  so  base  a calumny  ” 

“ Why,’  quoth  Sancho,  “ I neither  say  nor  think  one  way  nor  the  t’other,  not  I : let  them  that 
say  it  eat  the  lie,  and  swallow  it  with  their  bread.  I never  thrust  my  nose  into  other  men’s 
porridge.  It  is  no  bread  and  butter  of  mine  : ‘every  man  for  himself,  and  God  for  us  all,’  say  I ; for 
lie  that  buys  and  lies,  finds  it  in  his  purse.  Let  him  that  owns  the  cow  take  her  by  the  tail.  Naked 
came  I into  the  world,  and  naked  must  I go  out  Many  think  to  find  flitches  of  bacon,  and  find  not 


I/O 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


so  much  as  the  racks  to  lay  them  on:  but  who  can  hedge  in  a cuckoo?  ‘Little  said  is  soon  mended.’ 
It  is  a sin  to  belie  the  devil  : but  misunderstanding  brings  lies  to  town,  and  there  is  no  padlocking 
of  people’s  mouths  ; for  a close  mouth  catches  no  flies.” 

“ Bless  me ! ” cried  Don  Quixote,  “ what  a catalogue  of  musty  proverbs  hast  thou  run  through  ! 
what  a heap  of  frippery  ware  hast  thou  threaded  together,  and  how  wide  from  the  purpose  ! Pray 
thee  have  done,  and  for  the  future  let  thy  whole  study  be  to  spur  thy  ass  ; nor  do  thou  concern 
thyself  with  things  that  are  out  of  thy  sphere  ; and  with  all  thy  five  senses  remember  this,  that 
whatsoever  I do,  have  done,  and  shall  do,  is  no  more  than  what  is  the  result  of  mature  consideration, 
and  strictly  conformable  to  the  laws  of  chivalry,  which  I understand  better  than  all  the  knights  that 
ever  professed  knight-errantry.” 

“ Ay,  ay,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “but  pray,  is  it  a good  law  of  chivalry  that  says  we  shall  wander 
up  and  down,  over  bushes  and  briars,  in  this  rocky  wilderness,  where  there  is  neither  foot-path  nor 
horse-way,  running  after  a madman,  who,  if  we  may  light  on  him  again,  may  chance  to  make  an 
end  of  what  he  has  begun — not  of  his  story, ; I mean,  but  of  belabouring  you  and  me  thoroughly  ?” 

“ Once  more,  I pr’ythee,  have  done,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ I have  business  of  greater  moment 
than  the  finding  this  frantic  man  ; it  is  not  so  much  that  business  that  detains  me  in  this  barren  and 
desolate  wild,  as  a desire  I have  to  perform  a certain  heroic  deed  that  shall  immortalise  my  fame, 
and  make  it  fly  to  the  remotest  regions  of  the  habitable  globe  ; na.y,  it  shall  seal  and  confirm  the 
most  complete  and  absolute  knight-errant  in  the  world.” 

“ But  is  not  this  same  adventure  very  dangerous  ? ” asked  Sancho. 

“ Not  at  all,  ’’replied  Don  Quixote  ; f‘  though,  as  fortune  may  order  it,  our  expectations  may  be 
baffled  by  disappointing  accidents  : but  the  main  thing  consists  in  thy  diligence.” 

“ My  diligence  ? ” quoth  Sancho. 

“ I mean,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  if  thou  returnest  with  all  the  speed  imaginable  from  the 
place  whither  I design  to  9end  thee,  my  pain  will  soon  be  at  an  end,  and  my  glory  begin.  And 
because  I do  not  doubt  thy  zeal  for  advancing  thy  master’s  interest,  I will  no  longer  conceal  my 
design  from  thee.  Know,  then,  my  most  faithful  squire,  that  Amadis  de  Gaul  was  one  of  the  most 
accomplished  knights-errant;  nay,  I should  not  have  said  he  was  one  of  them,  but  the  most  perfect, 
the  chief  and  prince  of  them  all.  And  let  not  Don  Belianis,  nor  any  others,  pretend  to  stand  in 
competition  with  him  for  the  honour  of  priority  ; for,  to  my  knowledge,  should  they  attempt  it,  they 
would  be  egregiously  in  the  wrong.  I must  also  inform  thee,  that  when  a painter  studies  to  excel  and 
grow  famous  in  his  art,  he  takes  care  to  imitate  the  best  originals  ; which  rule  ought  likewise  to  be 
observed  in  all  other  arts  and  sciences  that  sferve  for  the  ornament  of  well-regulated  commonwealths. 

• Thus  he  that  is  ambitious  of  gaining  the  reputation  of  a prudent  and  patient  man,  ought  to  propose 
to  himself  to  imitate  Ulysses,  in  whose  person  and  troubles  Homer  has  admirably  delineated  a 
perfect  pattern  and  prototype  of  wisdom  and  heroic  patience.  So  Virgil,  in  his  /Eneas,  has  given 
the  world  a rare  example  of  filial  piety,  and  of  the  sagacity  of  a valiant  and  experienced  general ; 
both  the  Greek  and  Roman  poets  representing  their  heroes,  not  such  as  they  really  were,  but  such 


But  pray,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ is  it  a good  law  of  chivalry  that  says  we  shall  wander  up  and  down,  over  bushes  and  briars, 

in  this  rocky  wilderness?” — p.  170. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


172 

as  they  should  be,  to  remain  examples  of  virtue  to  ensuing  ages.  In  the  same  manner,  Amadis 
having  been  the  polar  star  and  sun  of  valorous  and  amorous  knights,  it  is  him  we  ought  to  set 
before  our  eyes  as  our  great  exemplar,  all  of  us  that  fight  under  the  banner  of  love  and  chivalry  ; 
for  it  is  certain  that  the  adventurer  who  shall  emulate  him  best  shall  consequently  arrive  nearest  to 
the  perfection  of  knight-errantry.  Now,  Sancho,  I find  that  among  the  things  which  most  displayed 
that  champion’s  prudence  and  fortitude,  his  constancy  and  love,  and  his  other  heroic  virtues,  none 
was  more  remarkable  than  his  retiring  from  his  disdainful  Oriana,  to  do  penance  on  the  Poor  Rock: 
changing  his  name  into  that  of  Beltenebros,  or  the  Lovely  Obscure,  a title  certainly  most  significant, 
and  adapted  to  the  life  which  he  then  intended  to  lead.  So  I am  resolved  to  imitate  him  in  this, 
the  rather  because  I think  it  a more  easy  task  than  it  would  be  to  copy  his  other  achievements, 
such  as  cleaving  the  bodies  of  giants,  cutting  off  the  heads  of  dragons,  killing  dreadful  monsters, 
routing  whole  armies,  dispersing  navies,  breaking  the  force  of  magic  spells.  And  since  these 
mountainous  wilds  offer  me  so  fair  an  opportunity,  I see  no  reason  why  I should  neglect  it,  and 
therefore  I will  lay  hold  on  it  now  ” 

“ Very  well,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  pray,  sir,  what  is  it  that  you  mean  to  do  in  this  fag  end  of 
the  world  ? ” 

“ Have  I not  already  told  thee,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “that  I intend  to  copy  Amadis  in 
his  madness,  despair,  and  fury  ? nay,  at  the  same  time  I will  imitate  the  valiant  Orlando  Furioso’s 
extravagance  when  he  ran  mad  ; at  which  time,  in  his  frantic  despair,  he  tore  up  trees  by  the  roots, 
troubled  the  waters  of  the  clear  fountains,  slew  the  shepherds,  destroyed  their  flocks,  fired  their  huts, 
demolished  houses,  drove  their  horses  before  him,  and  committed  a hundred  thousand  other 
extravagances,  worthy  to  be  recorded  in  the  eternal  register  of  fame.  Not  that  I intend,  however,  in 
all  things  to  imitate  Roldan,  or  Orlando,  or  Rotoland  (for  he  had  all  those  names),  but  only  to  make 
choice  of  such  frantic  effects  of  his  amorous  despair,  as  I shall  think  most  essential  and  worthy 
imitation.  Nay,  perhaps  I shall  wholly  follow  Amadis,  who,  without  launching  out  into  such 
destructive  and  fatal  ravings,  and  only  expressing  his  anguish  in  complaints  and  lamentations, 
gained  nevertheless,  a renown  equal,  if  not  superior,  to  that  of  the  greatest  heroes.” 

“ Sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I dare  say  the  knight  who  did  these  penances  had  some  reason  to  be 
mad  ; but  what  need  have  you  to  be  mad  too  ? what  lady  has  sent  you  a-packing,  or  so  much  as 
slighted  you  ? when  did  you  ever  find  that  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  did  otherwise  than  she 
should  do  ? ” 

“ Why,  there  is  the  point,”  cried  Don  Quixote ; “ in  this  consists  the  singular  perfection  of  my 
undertaking ; for,  mark  me,  Sancho,  for  a knight-errant  to  run  mad  upon  any  just  occasion,  is 
neither  strange  nor  meritorious  ; no,  the  rarity  is  to  run  mad  without  a cause,  without  the  least 
constraint  or  necessity  : there  is  a refined  and  exquisite  passion  for  you,  Sancho  ! for  thus  my 
mistress  must  needs  have  a vast  idea  of  my  love.  But  besides,  I have  but  too  just  a motive  to  give 
a loose  to  my  raving  grief,  considering  the  long  date  of  my  absence  from  my  ever  supreme  Lady 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso  ; for  as  the  shepherd  in  Matthias  Ambrosio  has  it — 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


173 


‘ ‘ Poor  lovers,  absent  from  the  darling  fair, 

All  ills  not  only  dread,  but  bear.” 

Then  do  not  lavish  any  more  time  in  striving  to  divert  me  from  so  rare,  so  happy,  and  so  singular 
an  imitation.  I am  mad,  and  will  be  mad,  until  thy  return  with  an  answer  to  the  letter  which  thou 
must  carry  from  me  to  the  Lady  Dulcinea  ; and  if  it  be  as  favourable  as  my  unshaken  constancy 
deserves,  then  my  madness  and  my  penance  shall  end  ; but  if  I find  she  repays  my  vows  and 
services  with  ungrateful  disdain,  then  will  I be  emphatically  mad,  and  screw  up  my  thoughts  to  such 
an  excess  of  distraction,  that  I shall  be  insensible  of  the  rigour  of  my  relentless  fair.  Thus  what 
return  soever  she  makes  to  my  passion,  I shall  be  eased  one  way  or  other  of  the  anxious  thoughts 
that  now  divide  my  soul  ; either  entertaining  the  welcome  news  of  her  reviving  pity  with  demon- 
strations of  sense,  or  else  showing  my  insensibility  of  her  cruelty  by  the  height  of  my  distraction. 
But  in  the  meantime,  Sancho,  tell  me,  hast  thou  carefully  preserved  Mambrino’s  helmet  ? I 
saw  thee  take  it  up  the  other  day,  after  that  monster  of  ingratitude  had  spent  his  rage  in  vain 
endeavours  to  break  it,  which,  by  the  way,  argues  the  most  excellent  temper  of  the  metal.” 

“ Body  of  me,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  I can  no  longer  bear  to  hear 
you  run  on  at  this  rate  ! Why,  this  were  enough  to  make  any  man  believe  that  all  your  bragging 
and  bouncing  of  your  knight-errantry,  your  winning  of  kingdoms,  and  bestowing  of  islands,  and 
Heaven  knows  what,  upon  your  squire,  are  mere  flim-flam  stories,  and  nothing  but  shams  and  lies  ; 
for  who  can  hear  a man  call  a barber's  basin  a helmet,  nay,  and  stand  to  it,  and  vouch  it  four  days 
together,  and  not  think  him  that  says  it  to  be  stark  mad,  or  without  brains  ? I have  the  basin  safe 
enough  here  in  my  pouch,  and  I’ll  get  it  mended  for  my  own  use,  if  ever  I have  the  luck  to  get 
home  to  my  wife  and  children.” 

“Now  as  I love  bright  arms,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ I swear  thou  art  the  shallowest,  silliest,  and 
most  stupid  fellow  of  a squire  that  ever  I heard  or  read  of  in  my  life  ! How  is  it  possible  for  thee 
to  be  so  dull  of  apprehension,  as  not  to  have  learnt  in  all  this  time  that  thou  hast  been  in  my 
service,  that  all  the  actions  and  adventures  of  us  knights-errant  seem  to  be  mere  chimeras,  follies, 
and  impertinencies  ? Not  that  they  are  so  indeed,  but  appear  so,  either  through  the  officious  care 
or  the  malice  and  envy  of  those  enchanters  that  always  haunt  and  persecute  us  unseen,  and  by  their 
fascinations  change  the  appearance  of  our  actions  into  what  they  please,  according  to  their  love  or 
hate.  This  is  the  very  reason  why  that  which  I plainly  perceive  to  be  Mambrino’s  helmet  seems  to 
thee  to  be  only  a barber’s  basin,  and  perhaps  another  man  may  take  it  to  be  something  else.  And  in 
this  I can  never  too  much  admire  the  prudence  of  the  sage  who  espouses  my  interests,  in  making  that 
inestimable  helmet  seem  a basin  ; for  did  it  appear  in  its  proper  shape,  its  tempting  value  would 
raise  me  as  many  enemies  as  there  are  men  in  the  universe,  all  eager  to  snatch  from  me  so  desirable 
a prize  : but  so  long  as  it  shall  seem  to  be  nothing  else  but  a barber’s  basin,  men  will  not  value  it ; 
as  is  manifest  from  the  fellow’s  leaving  it  behind  him  on  the  ground  : for  had  he  known  what  it 
really  was,  he  would  sooner  have  parted  with  his  life.  Keep  it  safe  then,  Sancho,  for  I have 
no  need  of  it  at  present,  far  from  it ; I think  to  put  off  my  armour,  and  strip  myself  as  naked  as 


i;  4 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I came  into  the  world,  in  case  I determine  to  imitate  Orlando’s  fury,  rather  than  the  penance  of 
Amadis.” 

This  discourse  brought  them  to  the  foot  of  a high  rock  that  stood  by  itself,  as  if  it  had 
been  hewn  out,  and  divided  from  the  rest ; by  the  skirt  of  it  glided  a purling  stream,  that  softly 
took  its  winding  course  through  an  adjacent  meadow.  The  verdant  freshness  of  the  grass, 
the  number  of  wild  trees,  plants,  and  flowers  that  feasted  the  eyes  in  that  pleasant  solitude, 
invited  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  to  make  choice  of  it  to  perform  his  amorous  penance; 
and  therefore  as  soon  as  he  had  let  his  ravished  sight  rove  a while  over  the  scattered  beauties 
of  the  place,  he  took  possession  of  it  with  the  following  speech,  as  if  he  had  utterly  lost  the  small 
share  of  reason  he  had  left. 

“ Behold,  oh  ye  heavens  ! ’’  cried  he,  “ this  is  the  place  which  an  unhappy  lover  has  chosen 
for  bemoaning  the  deplorable  state  to  which  you  have  reduced  him  : here  shall  my  flowing  tears 
swell  the  liquid  veins  of  this  crystal  rill,  and  my  deep  sighs  perpetually  move  the  leaves  of  these 
shady  trees,  in  testimony  of  the  anguish  and  pain  that  harrows  up  my  soul.  Ye  rural  deities, 
whoever  you  be,  that  make  these  unfrequented  deserts  your  abode,  hear  the  complaints  of  an 
unfortunate  lover,  whom  a tedious  absence,  and  some  slight  impressions  of  a jealous  mistrust, 
have  driven  to  these  regions  of  despair,  to  bewail  his  rigorous  destiny,  and  deplore  the  distracting 
cruelty  of  that  ungrateful  fair,  who  is  the  perfection  of  all  human  beauty.  Ye  pitying  Napsean 
Nymphs  and  Dryades,  silent  inhabitants  of  the  woods  and  groves,  assist  me  to  lament  my  fate,  or 
at  least  attend  the  mournful  story  of  my  woes  ; so  may  no  designing  satyrs,  those  just  objects  of 
your  hate,  ever  have  power  to  interrupt  your  rest.  O Dulcinea  del  Toboso!  thou  sun  that  turnest 
my  gloomy  night  to  da)' ! glory  of  my  pain  ! north  star  of  my  travels,  and  reigning  planet  that 
controll’st  my  heart!  pity,  I conjure  thee,  the  unparalleled  distress  to  which  thy  absence  has  reduced 
the  faithfullest  of  lovers,  and  grant  to  my  fidelity  that  kind  return  which  it  so  justly  claims  ; so 
may  indulgent  Fate  shower  on  thee  all  the  blessings  thou  ever  canst  desire,  or  Heaven  grant! 
Ye  lonesome  trees,  under  whose  spreading  branches  I come  to  linger  out  of  the  gloomy  shadow  of 
a tedious  being,  let  the  soft  language  of  your  rustling  leaves,  and  the  kind  nodding  of  your 
springing  boughs,  satisfy  me  that  I am  welcome  to  your  shady  arbours.  Oh  thou,  my  trusty 
squire,  the  inseparable  companion  of  my  adventures,  diligently  observe  what  thou  shalt  see  me 
do  in  this  lonely  retreat,  that  thou  mayest  inform  the  dear  cause  of  my  ruin  with  every  particular.” 

As  he  said  this,  he  alighted,  and  presently  taking  off  his  horse’s  bridle  and  saddle,  “ Go, 
Rozinante,”  saith  he  ; “ he  that  has  lost  his  freedom  gives  thee  thine,  thou  steed  as  renowned  for  thy 
extraordinary  actions  as  for  thy  misfortunes;  go  rear  thy  awful  front  wherever  thou  pleasest,  secure 

that  neither  the  Hyppogryphon  of  Astolpho,  nor  the  renowned  Frontino,  which  Bradamante 

purchased  at  so  high  a price,  could  ever  be  thought  thy  equals.” 

“Well  fare  him,”  cried  Sancho,  “that  saved  me  the  trouble  of  sending  my  ass  to  grass  too: 
poor  thing  ! had  I him  here,  he  should  not  want  a fine  speech  in  his  praise,  while  I took  off  his 

pannel.  But  stay,  now  I think  on  it,  Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  if  your  worship  is  resolved 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


175 


to  be  mad,  and  send  me  away  in  good  earnest,  we  must  even  clap  the  saddle  again  on  Rozinante’s 
back  ; for  to  tell  you  the  truth,  I am  but  a sorry  foot-man,  and  if  I do  not  ride  home,  I do  not 
know  when  I shall  be  able  to  come  back  again." 

“ Do  as  thou  thinkest  fit  for  that,  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “for  I design  thou  shalt  set 
forward  about  three  days  hence.  In  the  meanwhile,  thou  shalt  be  a witness  of  what  I will  do  for 
my  lady’s  sake,  that  thou  mayest  give  her  an  account  of  it.” 

“ Bless  me  ! ” quoth  Sancho,  “ what  can  I see  more  than  I have  seen  already  ? ” 

“ Thou  hast  seen  nothing  yet,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ thou  must  see  me  throw  away  my 
armour,  tear  my  clothes,  knock  my  head  against  the  rocks,  and  do  a thousand  other  things  of  that 
kind,  that  will  fill  thee  with  astonishment.” 

“ For  goodness  sake,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “take  heed  how  you  quarrel  with  those  ungracious 
rocks  ; you  may  chance  to  get  such  a crack  on  the  crown  at  the  very  first  rap,  as  may  spoil  your 
penance  at  one  dash.  No,  I do  not  like  that  way,  by  no  means;  if  you  must  needs  be  knocking 
your  noddle,  to  go  through  with  this  ugly  job,  seeing  it  is  all  but  a mockery,  or  as  it  were 
between  jest  and  earnest,  why  cannot  you  as  well  play  your  tricks  on  something  that  is  softer  than 
these  unconscionable  stones  ? You  may  run  your  head  against  water,  or  rather  against  cotton, 
or  this  stuffing  of  Rozinante’s  saddle,  and  then  let  me  alone  with  the  rest  : I will  be  sure  to  tell 
my  Lady  Dulcinea  that  you  bebumped  your  poll  against  the  point  of  a rock  that  is  harder  than 
a diamond.” 

“ I thank  thee  for  thy  good-will,  dear  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “but  I assure  thee  that 
all  these  seeming  extravagances  that  I must  run  through  are  no  jests  ; far  from  it  : they  must  all  be 
performed  seriously  and  solemnly  ; for  otherwise  we  should  transgress  the  laws  of  chivalry,  that 
forbid  us  to  tell  lies  upon  pain  of  degradation;  now  to  pretend  to  do  one  thing,  and  effect  another,  is 
an  evasion,  which  I esteem  to  be  as  bad  as  lying.  Therefore  the  blows  which  I must  give  myself 
on  the  head  ought  to  be  real,  substantial,  sound  ones,  without  any  trick  or  mental  reservation  ; for 
which  reason  I would  have  thee  leave  me  some  lint  and  salve,  since  Fortune  has  deprived  us  of  the 
sovereign  balsam  which  we  lost.” 

“It  was  a worse  loss  to  lose  the  ass,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ for  with  him  we  have  lost  bag’  and 
baggage,  lint  and  all  : but  no  more  of  your  drench,  if  you  love  me  ; the  very  thoughts  on  it  are 
enough  not  only  to  turn  my  stomach,  but  my  soul ; such  a rumbling  I feel  at  the  name  of  it.  Then 
as  for  the  three  days  you  would  have  me  loiter  here  to  mind  your  mad  tricks,  you  had  as  good 
make  account  they  are  already  over  ; for  I hold  them  for  done,  unsight  unseen,  and  will  tell 
wonders  to  my  lady  : wherefore  write  you  your  letter,  and  send  me  going  with  all  haste  ; for 
let  me  be  hanged  if  I do  not  long  already  to  be  back,  to  take  you  out  of  this  purgatory  wherein 
I leave  you.” 

“ Well,  be  it  so,”  said  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure;  “but  how  shall  I do  to  write  this 
letter  ? ” 

“ And  the  order  for  the  three  asses  ? ” added  Sancho. 


176 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ I will  not  forget  it,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  since  we  have  here  no  paper,  I must  be 
obliged  to  write  on  the  leaves  or  bark  of  trees,  or  on  wax,  as  they  did  in  ancient  times  ; yet  now  I 
consider  on  it,  we  are  here  as  ill  provided  with  wax  as  with  paper  : but  stay,  now  I remember,  I 
have  Cardenio’s  pocket-book,  which  will  supply  that  want  in  this  exigence,  and  then  thou  shalt  get 
the  letter  fairly  transcribed  at  the  first  village  where  thou  canst  meet  with  a schoolmaster  ; or,  for 
want  of  a schoolmaster,  thou  mayest  get  the  clerk  of  the  parish  to  do  it ; but  by  no  means  give  it 
to  any  notary  or  scrivener  to  be  written  out ; for  they  commonly  write  such  execrable  hands,  that 
no  one  on  earth  is  able  to  read  it.” 

“ Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  what  shall  I do  for  want  of  your  name  to  it  ? ’’ 

“ Why,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ Amadis  never  used  to  subscribe  his  letters.” 

“ Ay,”  replied  Sancho,  “ but  the  bill  of  exchange  for  the  three  asses  must  be  signed  ; for  should 
I get  it  copied  out  afterwards,  they  would  say  it  is  not  your  hand,  and  so  I shall  go  without  the 
asses.” 

“ I will  write  and  sign  the  order  for  them  in  the  pocket-book,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  as 
soon  as  my  niece  sees  the  hand,  she  will  never  scruple  the  delivery  of  the  asses  : and  as  for  the 
love-letter,  when  thou  gettest  it  transcribed,  thou  must  get  it  thus  under-written,  ‘Yours  till  death, 
the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure.’  It  is  no  matter  whether  the  letter  and  subscription  be  written 

by  the  same  hand  or  no  ; for,  as  I remember,  Dulcinea  can  neither  read  nor  write,  nor  did  she  ever 

see  any  of  my  letters,  nay,  not  so  much  as  any  of  my  writing  in  her  life  : for  my  love  and  hers  have 
always  been  purely  Platonic,  never  extending  beyond  the  lawful  bounds  of  a look ; and  that,  too,  so 
very  seldom,  that  I dare  safely  swear  that  though  for  these  twelve  years  she  has  been  dearer  to  my 
soul  than  light  to  my  eyes,  yet  I never  saw  her  four  times  in  my  life  ; and  perhaps  of  those  few 
times  that  I have  seen  her,  she  has  scarce  perceived  once  that  I beheld  her ; so  strictly  and  so 
discreetly  Lorenzo  Corchuelo,  her  father,  and  Aldonza  Nogales,  her  mother,  have  kept  and  educated 
her.” 

“ Heighday  ! ” quoth  Sancho;  “did  you  ever  hear  the  like?  and  is  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del 
Toboso  at  last  the  daughter  of  Lorenzo  Corchuelo,  she  that  is  otherwise  called  Aldonza  Lorenzo?” 

“ The  same,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  it  is  she  that  merits  to  be  the  sovereign  mistress 
of  the  universe.” 

“ Udsniggers  ! ” quoth  Sancho,  “ I know  her  full  well  ; it  is  a strapping  wench,  i’faith,  and  pitches 
the  bar  with  e’er  a lusty  young  fellow  in  our  parish.  By  the  mass,  it  is  a notable,  strong-built, 
sizable,  sturdy,  manly  lass,  and  one  that  will  keep  her  chin  out  of  the  mire,  I warrant  her ; nay,  and 
hold  the  best  knight-errant  to  it  that  wears  a head,  if  ever  he  venture  near  her.  Body  of  me,  what 
a pair  of  lungs  and  a voice  she  has,  when  she  sets  up  her  throat ! I saw  her  one  day  perched  up 
o’  top  of  our  steeple,  to  call  some  ploughmen  that  were  at  work  in  a fallow-field  : and  though  they 
were  half  a league  off,  they  heard  her  as  plain  as  if  they  had  been  in  the  churchyard  under  her. 
The  best  of  her  is,  that  she  is  neither  coy  nor  frumpish  ; she  is  a tractable  lass,  and  fit  for  a courtier, 
for  she  will  play  with  you  like  a kitten,  and  jibes  and  jokes  at  everybody.  And  now,  in  good  truth, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  I A MANCHA. 


177 


Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  you  may  e’en  play  at  your  gambols  as  you  please  ; you  may  run 
mad,  you  may  hang  yourself  for  her  sake  ; there  is  nobody  but  will  say  you  e’en  took  the  wisest 
course.  Now  am  I even  wild  to  be  gone,  though  it  were  for  nothing  else  but  to  see  her,  for  I have 
not  seen  her  this  many  a day  : I fancy  I shall  hardly  know  her  again,  for  a woman’s  face  strangely 
alters  by  her  being  always  in  the  sun,  and  drudging  and  moiling  in  the  open  fields.  Well,  I must 
needs  own  I have  been  mightily  mistaken  all  along  : for  I durst  have  sworn  this  Lady  Dulcinea 
had  been  some  great  princess  with  whom  you  were  in  love,  and  such  a one  as  deserved  those  rare 
gifts  you  bestowed  on  her,  as  the  Biscayan,  the  galley-slaves,  and  many  others,  that,  for  aught  I 
know,  you  may  have  sent  her  before  I was  your  squire.  I cannot  choose  but  laugh  to  think  how 
my  Lady  Aldonza  Lorenzo  (my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  I should  have  said)  would  behave 
herself,  should  any  of  those  men  which  you  have  sent,  or  may  send  to  her,  chance  to  go  and  fall 
down  on  their  marrow-bones  before  her  : for  it  is  ten  to  one  they  may  happen  to  find  her  a-carding 
of  flax,  or  threshing  in  the  barn,  and  then  how  finely  baulked  they  will  be  ! as  sure  as  I am  alive, 
they  must  needs  think  Fortune  owed  them  a shame  ; and  she  herself  will  but  flout  them,  and 
mayhap  be  somewhat  nettled  at  it.” 

“ I have  often  told  thee,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  u and  I tell  thee  again,  that  thou  oughtest 
to  bridle  or  immure  thy  saucy,  prating  tongue  ; for  though  thou  art  but  a dull-headed  dunce,  yet  now 
and  then  thy  ill-mannered  jests  bite  too  sharp.  But  that  I may  at  once  make  thee  sensible  of  thy 
folly  and  my  discretion,  pr’ythee  tell  me,  dost  thou  think  the  poets,  who,  every  one  of  them,  celebrate 
the  praises  of  some  lady  or  other,  had  all  real  mistresses  ? or  that  the  Amaryllises,  the  Phyllises,  the 
Sylvias,  the  Dianas,  the  Galateas,  the  Alidas,  and  the  like,  which  you  shall  find  in  so  many  poems, 
romances,  songs,  and  ballads,  upon  every  stage,  and  even  in  every  barber’s  shop,  were  creatures  of 
flesh  and  blood,  and  mistresses  to  those  that  did  and  do  celebrate  them  ? No,  no,  never  think  it  ; 
for  I dare  assure  thee,  the  greatest  part  of  them  were  nothing  but  the  mere  imaginations  of  the 
poets,  for  a groundwork  to  exercise  their  wits  upon,  and  give  to  the  world  occasion  to  look  on  the 
authors  as  men  of  a gallant  disposition  : and  so  it  is  sufficient  for  me  to  imagine  that  Aldonza  Lorenzo 
is  beautiful  and  chaste  ; as  for  her  birth  and  parentage,  they  concern  me  but  little  ; for  there  is  no 
need  to  make  an  inquiry  about  a woman’s  pedigree,  as  there  is  of  us  men,  when  some  badge  of 
honour  is  bestowed  on  us ; and  so  she  is  to  me  the  greatest  princess  in  the  world  : for  thou 
oughtest  to  know,  Sancho — if  thou  knowest  it  not  already — that  there  are  but  two  things  that  chiefly 
excite  us  to  love  a woman — an  attractive  beauty,  and  unspotted  fame.  Now  these  two  endowments 
are  happily  reconciled  in  Dulcinea ; for  as  for  the  one,  she  has  not  her  equal,  and  few  can  vie  with 
her  in  the  other  : but  to  cut  off  all  objections  at  once,  I imagine  that  all  I say  of  her  is  really  so, 
without  the  least  addition  or  diminution  : I fancy  her  to  be  just  such  as  I would  have  her  for  beauty 
and  quality.  Helen  cannot  stand  in  competition  witli  her  ; Lucretia  cannot  rival  her  ; and  all  the 
heroines  which  antiquity  has  to  boast,  whether  Greeks,  Romans,  or  barbarians,  are  at  once  outdone 
by  her  incomparable  perfections.  Therefore  let  the  world  say  what  it  will ; should  the  ignorant 
vulgar  foolishly  censure  me,  I please  myself  with  the  assurances  I have  of  the  approbation  of  men  of 
the  strictest  morals,  and  the  nicest  judgment.” 

23 


17S 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“Sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “I  knock  under  : you  have  reason  on  your  side  in  all  you  say,  and  I own 
myself  an  ass.  Nay,  I am  an  ass  to  talk  of  an  ass  ; for  it  is  ill  talking  of  halters  in  the  house  of  a 
man  that  was  hanged.  But  where  is  the  letter  all  this  while,  that  I may  be  jogging  ? ” 

With  that  Don  Quixote  pulled  out  the  pocket-book,  and,  retiring  a little  aside,  he  very  seriously 
began  to  write  the  letter  ; which  he  had  no  sooner  finished,  but  he  called  Sancho,  and  ordered  him 
to  listen  while  he  read  it  over  to  him,  that  he  might  carry  it  as  well  in  his  memory  as  in  his  pocket- 
book,  in  case  he  should  have  the  ill  luck  to  lose  it  by  the  way ; for  so  cross  was  Fortune  to  him,  that 
he  feared  every  accident.  “ But,  sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ write  it  over  twice  or  thrice  there  in  the  book, 
and  give  it  me,  and  then  I will  be  sure  to  deliver  the  message  safe  enough,  I warrant  ye  : for  it  is  a 
folly  to  think  I can  get  it  by  heart.  Alas  ! my  memory  is  so  bad,  that  many  times  I forget  my  own 
name  ; but  yet  for  all  that,  read  it  out  to  me,  I beseech  you,  for  I have  a great  mind  to  hear  it.  1 
dare  say,  it  is  as  fine  as  though  it  were  in  print.” 

“ Well,  then,  listen,”  said  Don  Quixote. 

Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  to  Dulcinea  del  Toboso. 

“ High  and  Sovereign  Lady  ! 

“ He  that  is  stabbed  to  the  quick  with  the  poniard  of  absence,  and  wounded  to  the  heart  with 
love’s  most  piercing  darts,  sends  you  that  health  which  he  wants  himself,  sweetest  Dulcinea  del 
Toboso.  If  your  beauty  reject  me,  if  your  virtue  refuse  to  raise  my  fainting  hopes,  if  your  disdain 
exclude  me  from  relief,  I must  at  last  sink  under  the  pressure  of  my  woes,  though  much  inured  to 
sufferings  : for  my  pains  are  not  only  too  violent,  but  too  lasting.  My  trusty  squire  Sancho  will 
give  you  an  exact  account  of  the  condition  to  which  love  and  you  have  reduced  me,  too  beautiful 
ingrate  ! If  you  relent  at  last,  and  pity  my  distress,  then  I may  say  I live,  and  you  preserve  what 
is  yours.  But  if  you  abandon  me  to  despair,  I must  patiently  submit,  and,  by  ceasing  to  breathe, 
satisfy  your  cruelty  and  my  passion. — Yours,  till  death, 

“ The  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure.” 

“ By  the  life  of  my  father,”  quoth  Sancho,  “if  I ever  saw  a finer  thing  in  my  born  days!  How 
neatly  and  roundly  you  tell  your  mind,  and  how  cleverly  you  bring  in  at  last,  ‘ The  Knight  of  the 
Woful  Figure  ! ’ Well,  I say  it  again  in  good  earnest,  there  is  no  kind  of  thing  in  the  ’versal  world 
but  what  you  can  turn  your  hand  to.” 

“ A man  ought  to  have  some  knowledge  of  everything,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ if  he  would 
be  duly  qualified  for  the  employment  I profess.” 

“ Well,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ do  so  much  as  write  the  warrant  for  the  three  asses  on  the 
other  side  of  that  leaf ; and  pray  write  it  mighty  plain,  that  they  may  know  it  is  your  hand  at 
first  sight.” 

“ I will,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; and  with  that  he  wrote  it  accordingly,  and  then  read  it  in 
this  form  : — 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


179 


“ My  dear  Niece, 

“ Upon  sight  of  this  my  first  bill  of  asses,  be  pleased  to  deliver  three  of  the  five  which  I left  at 
home  in  your  custody  to  Sancho  Panza,  my  squire,  for  the  like  number  received  of  him  here  in  tale  ; 
and  this,  together  with  his  acquittance,  shall  be  your  discharge.  Given  in  the  very  heart  of  Sierra 
Morena,  the  22nd  of  August,  in  the  present  year.” 

“ It  is  as  it  should  be,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ there  only  wants  your  name  at  the  bottom.” 

“ There  is  no  need  to  set  my  name,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  only  set  the  two  first 
letters  of  it,  and  it  will  be  as  valid  as  if  it  were  written  at  length,  though  it  were  not  only  for  three 
asses,  but  for  three  hundred.” 

“I  dare  take  your  worship’s  word,”  quoth  Sancho.  “And  now  I am  going  to  saddle 
Rozinante,  and  then  you  shall  give  me  your  blessing,  for  I intend  to  set  out  presently,  without 
seeing  any  of  your  mad  tricks  ; and  I will  relate  that  I saw  you  perform  so  many,  that  she  can 
desire  no  more.” 

“ Nay,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  have  thee  stay  a while,  Sancho;  it  is  absolutely  necessary 
thou  shouldst  see  me  practise  some  twenty  or  thirty  mad  gambols.  I shall  have  dispatched  them 
in  less  than  half  an  hour,  and  when  thou  hast  been  an  eye-witness  of  that  essay,  thou  mayest  with  a 
safe  conscience  swear  thou  hast  seen  me  play  a thousand  more ; for  I dare  assure  thee,  for  thy 
encouragement,  thou  never  canst  exceed  the  number  of  those  I shall  perform.” 

“ Good  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ as  you  love  me,  do  not  let  me  stay  to  see  you ! it  will  grieve 
me  so  to  the  heart,  that  I shall  cry  my  eyes  out ; and  I have  blubbered  and  howled  but  too  much 
since  yesternight  for  the  loss  of  my  ass ; my  head  is  so  sore  with  it,  I am  not  able  to  cry  any 
longer : but  if  you  will  needs  have  me  see  some  of  your  antics,  pray  do  them  out  of  hand, 
and  let  them  be  such  as  are  most  to  the  purpose  ; for  the  sooner  I go,  the  sooner  I shall  come  back, 
and  the  way  to  be  gone  is  not  to  stay  here.  I long  to  bring  you  an  answer  to  your  heart’s  content, 
and  I will  be  sure  to  do  it,  or  let  the  Lady  Dulcinea  look  to  it ; for  if  she  does  not  answer  it  as  she 
should  do,  I protest  solemnly  I will  force  an  answer  out  of  her  by  dint  of  good  kicks  and 
fisticuffs  ; for  it  is  not  to  be  endured  that  such  a notable  knight-errant  as  your  worship  is  should 
thus  run  out  of  his  wits  without  knowing  why  or  wherefore,  for  such  a — odsbobs,  I know  what 
I know  ; she  had  best  not  provoke  me  to  speak  it  out ; for,  if  she  does,  I shall  let  fly,  and  out  with 
it  by  wholesale,  though  it  spoil  the  market.” 

“ I protest,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I think  thou  art  as  mad  as  myself.” 

“ Nay,  not  so  mad  neither,”  replied  Sancho,  “ but  somewhat  more  choleric.  But  talk  no  more 
of  that.  Let  us  see,  how  will  you  do  for  victuals  when  I am  gone  ? Do  you  mean  to  do  like  the 
other  madman  yonder,  rob  upon  the  highway,  and  snatch  the  goatherds’  victuals  from  them  by  main 
force  ? ” 

"Never  let  that  trouble  thy  head,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “for  though  I had  all  the  dainties  that 
can  feast  a luxurious  palate,  I would  feed  upon  nothing  but  the  herbs  and  fruits  which  this  wilderness 


He  gave  two  or  three  frisks  in  the  air,  and  then  pitching  on  his  hands,  he  fetched  his  heels  over  his  head  'wice  together.  /.  1S1 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


iS  r 


will  afford  me  ; for  the  singularity  of  my  present  task  consists  in  fasting,  and  half  starving  myself, 
and  in  the  performance  of  other  austerities.” 

“ But  there  is  another  thing  come  into  my  head,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ how  shall  I do  to  find  the 
way  hither  again  ? it  is  such  a bye-place.” 

'•  Take  good  notice  of  it  beforehand,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  I will  endeavour  to  keep  here- 
abouts till  thy  return  ; besides,  about  the  time  when  I may  reasonably  expect  thee  back,  I will  be 
sure  to  watch  on  the  top  of  yonder  high  rock  for  thy  coming.  But  now  I bethink  myself  of  a better 
expedient  : thou  shalt  cut  down  a good  number  of  boughs,  and  strew  them  in  the  way  as  thou  ridest 
along,  till  thou  gettest  to  the  plains,  and  this  will  serve  thee  to  find  me  again  at  thy  return,  like 
Perseus’s  clue  to  the  labyrinth  in  Crete.” 

“ I will  go  about  it  out  of  hand,”  quoth  Sancho. 

With  that  he  went  and  cut  down  a bundle  of  boughs,  then  came  and  asked  his  master’s  blessing, 
and,  after  a shower  of  tears  shed  on  both  sides,  mounted  Rozinante,  which  Don  Quixote  very 
seriously  recommended  to  his  care,  charging  him  to  be  as  tender  of  that  excellent  steed  as  of  his 
own  person.  After  that  he  set  forward  toward  the  plains,  strewing  several  boughs  as  he  rode, 
according  to  order.  His  master  importuned  him  to  stay  and  see  him  do  two  or  three  of  his  antic 
postures  before  he  went,  but  he  could  not  prevail  with  him  : however,  before  he  was  got  out  of 
sight,  he  considered  of  it  and  rode  back.  “ Sir,”  quoth  he,  “ I have  thought  better  of  it,  and  believe 
I had  best  take  your  advice,  that  I may  swear  with  a safe  conscience  I have  seen  you  play  your 
mad  tricks  ; therefore  I would  see  you  do  one  of  them  at  least,  though  I think  I have  seen  you  do 
a very  great  one  already — I mean,  your  staying  by  yourself  in  this  desert.” 

“ I had  advised  thee  right,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  therefore  stay  but  while  a man  may 
repeat  the  Creed,  and  I will  show  thee  what  thou  wouldst  see.” 

With  that,  stripping  himself  to  the  waist,  he  gave  two  or  three  frisks  in  the  air,  and  then 
pitching  on  his  hands,  he  fetched  his  heels  over  his  head  twice  together.  Whereupon  Sancho  made 
haste  to  turn  his  horse’s  head,  and  rode  away  full  satisfied,  that  he  might  swear  his  master  was  mad: 
And  so  we  will  leave  him  to  make  the  best  of  his  way  till  his  return,  which  will  be  more  speedy  than 
might  be  imagined. 


t 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

A CONTINUATION  OF  THE  REFINED  EXTRAVAGANCES  BY  WHICH  THE  GALLANT  KNIGHT  OF  LA  MANCHA 

CHOSE  TO  EXPRESS  HIS  LOVE  IN  THE  SIERRA  MORENA. 

THE  history  relates,  that  as  soon  as  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  saw  himself  alone, 
after  he  had  taken  his  frisks  and  leaps,  the  prelude  to  his  amorous  penance,  he  ascended 
the  top  of  a high  rock,  and  there  began  seriously  to  consider  with  himself  what  resolution  to  take  in 
that  nice  dilemma,  which  had  already  so  perplexed  his  mind  ; that  is,  whether  he  should  imitate 
Orlando  in  his  wild  ungovernable  fury,  or  Amadis  in  his  melancholy  mood.  To  which  purpose, 
reasoning  with  himself,  “ I do  not  much  wonder,”  said  he,  “ at  Orlando’s  being  so  very  valiant, 
considering  he  was  enchanted  in  such  a manner,  that  he  could  not  be  slain,  but  by  the  thrust  of  a 
long  pin  through  the  bottom  of  his  foot,  which  he  sufficiently  secured,  always  wearing  seven  iron 
soles  to  his  shoes;  and  yet  this  availed  him  nothing  against  Bernardo  del  Carpio,  who,  understanding 
what  he  depended  upon,  squeezed  him  to  death  between  his  arms  at  Roncevalles.  But,  setting  aside  % 
his  valour,  let  us  examine  his  madness  ; for  that  he  was  mad,  is  an  unquestionable  truth  ; nor  is  it 
i less  certain  that  his  frenzy  was  occasioned  by  the  assurances  he  had  that  the  fair  Angelica  had 
fallen  in  love  with  Medoro,  that  young  Moor  with  curled  locks,  who  was  page  to  Agramont.  Now, 
after  all,  seeing  he  was  too  well  convinced  of  his  lady’s  infidelity,  it  is  not  to  be  admired  he  should 
run  mad  : but  how  can  I imitate  him  in  his  furies,  if  I cannot  imitate  him  in  their  occasion  ? for  I 
dare  swear  my  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  never  saw  a downright  Moor  in  his  own  garb  since  she  first 
beheld  light,  so  that  I should  do  her  a great  injury,  should  I entertain  any  dishonourable  thoughts 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


183 


of  her  behaviour,  and  fall  into  such  a kind  of  madness  as  that  of  Orlando  Furioso.  On  the  other 
side  I find  that  Amadis  de  Gaul,  without  punishing  himself  with  such  distraction,  or  expressing  his 
resentment  in  so  boisterous  and  raving  a manner,  got  as  great  a reputation  for  being  a lover  as  any 
one  whatsoever  : for  what  I find  in  history  as  to  his  abandoning  himself  to  sorrow,  is  only  this  : 
he  found  himself  disdained,  his  lady  Oriana  having  charged  him  to  get  out  of  her  sight,  and  not  to 
presume  to  appear  in  her  presence  till  she  gave  him  leave;  and  this  was  the  true  reason  why  he 
retired  to  the  Poor  Rock  with  the  hermit,  where  he  gave  up  himself  wholly  to  grief,  and  wept  a 
deluge  of  tears,  till  pitying  Heaven  at  last,  commiserating  his  affliction,  sent  him  relief  in  the  height 
of  his  anguish.  Now,  then,  since  this  is  true,  as  I know  it  is,  what  need  have  I to  tear  off  my 
clothes,  to  rend  and  root  up  those  harmless  trees,  or  trouble  the  clear  water  of  these  brooks, 
that  must  give  me  drink  when  I am  thirsty  ? No,  long  live  the  memory  of  Amadis  de  Gaul, 
and  let  him  be  the  great  exemplar  which  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  chooses  to  imitate  in  all  things 
that  will  admit  of  a parallel.  So  may  it  be  said  of  the  living  copy,  as  was  said  of  the  dead  original, 
that,  if  he  did  not  perform  great  things,  yet  no  man  was  more  ambitious  of  undertaking  them  than 
he  ; and  though  I am  not  disdained  nor  discarded  by  Dulcinea,  yet  it  is  sufficient  that  I am  absent 
from  her.  Then  it  is  resolved  : and  now,  ye  famous  actions  of  the  great  Amadis,  recur  to  my 
remembrance,  and  be  my  trusty  guides  to  follow  his  example.” 

This  said,  he  called  to  mind  that  the  chief  exercise  of  that  hero  in  his  retreat  was  prayer  ; to 
which  purpose  our  modern  Amadis  presently  went  and  made  himself  a rosary  of  galls  or  acorns 
instead  of  beads  ; but  he  was  extremely  troubled  for  want  of  a hermit  to  hear  his  confession,  and 
comfort  him  in  his  affliction.  However,  he  entertained  himself  with  his  amorous  contemplations, 
walking  up  and  down  in  the  meadow,  and  writing  some  poetical  conceptions  in  the  smooth  sand,  and 
upon  the  barks  of  trees,  all  of  them  expressive  of  his  sorrows,  and  the  praises  of  Dulcinea ; but, 
unhappily,  none  were  found  entire  and  legible  but  these  stanzas  that  follow  : — 


Ye  lofty  trees,  with  spreading  arms, 

The  pride  and  shelter  of  the  plain  ; 

Ye  humbler  shrubs,  and  flow’ry  charms, 
Which  here  in  springing  glory  reign  ! 

If  my  complaints  may  pity  move, 

Hear  the  sad  story  of  my  love  ! 

While  with  me  here  you  pass  your  hours, 
Should  you  grow  faded  with  my  cares, 

I’ll  bribe  you  with  refreshing  showers, 

You  shall  be  watered  with  my  tears. 

Distant  though  present  in  idea, 

I mourn  my  absent  Dulcinea 

Del  Toboso. 

Love’s  truest  slave  despairing  chose 
This  lonely  wild,  this  desert  plain, 

The  silent  witness  of  the  woes 

Which  he,  though  guiltless,  must  sustain. 
Unknowing  why  those  pains  he  bears, 

He  groans,  he  raves,  and  he  despairs  : 


With  ling'ring  fires  love  racks  my  soul, 

In  vain  I grieve,  in  vain  lament  ; 

Like  tortur'd  fiends,  I weep,  I howl, 

And  burn,  yet  never  can  repent. 

Distant,  though  present  in  idea, 

I mourn  my  absent  Dulcinea 

Del  Toboso. 

While  I through  honour’s  thorny  ways, 

In  search  of  distant  glory  rove, 

Malignant  Fate  rny  toil  repays 
With  endless  woes  and  hopeless  love. 

Thus  I on  barren  rocks  despair, 

And  curse  my  stars,  yet  bless  my  fair. 

Love  arm’d  with  snakes  has  left  bis  dart, 
And  now  does  like  a fury  rave, 

And  scourge  and  sting  in  every  part, 

And  into  madness  lash  his  slave. 

Distant,  though  present  in  idea, 

I mourn  my  absent  Dulcinea 


Del  Toboso. 


;S4 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


This  addition  of  Del  Toboso  to  the  name  of  Dulcinca  made  those  who  found  these  verses 
laugh  heartily  ; and  they  imagined,  that  when  Don  Quixote  made  them,  he  was  afraid  those  who 
should  happen  to  read  them  would  not  understand  on  whom  they  were  made,  should  he  omit  to 
mention  the  place  of  his  mistress’s  birth  and  residence  ; and  this  was  indeed  the  true  reason,  as  he 
himself  afterwards  confessed.  With  this  employment  did  our  disconsolate  knight  beguile  the 
tedious  hours  ; sometimes  also  he  expressed  his  sorrows  in  prose,  sighed  to  the  winds,  and  called 
upon  the  Sylvan  gods,  and  Fauns,  the  Naiads,  the  Nymphs  of  the  adjoining  groves,  and  the 
mournful  Echo,  imploring  their  attention  and  condolemcnt  with  repeated  supplications  ; at  other 
times  he  employed  himself  in  gathering  herbs  for  the  support  of  languishing  nature,  which  decayed 
so  fast,  what  with  his  slender  diet,  and  what  with  his  studied  anxiety  and  intenseness  of  thinking, 
that  had  Sancho  stayed  but  three  weeks  from  him,  whereas  by  good  fortune  he  stayed  but  three 
days,  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  would  have  been  so  disfigured,  that  his  mother  would 
never  have  known  her  own  child. 

But  now  it  is  necessary  we  should  leave  him  a while  to  his  sighs,  his  sobs,  and  his  amorous 
expostulations,  and  see  how  Sancho  Panza  behaved  himself  in  his  embassy.  He  made  all  the  haste 
he  could  to  get  out  of  the  mountain,  and  then  taking  the  direct  road  to  Toboso,  the  next  day  he 
arrived  near  the  inn  where  he  had  been  tossed  in  a blanket.  Scarce  had  he  descried  the  fatal  walls, 
when  a sudden  shivering  seized  his  bones,  and  he  fancied  himself  to  be  again  dancing  in  the  air,  so 
that  he  had  a good  mind  to  have  rode  farther  before  he  baited,  though  it  was  dinner-time,  and  his 
mouth  watered  strangely  at  the  thoughts  of  a hot  bit  of  meat,  the  rather,  because  he  had  lived 
altogether  on  cold  victuals  for  a long  while.  This  greedy  longing  drew  him  near  the  inn,  in  spite 
of  his  aversion  to  the  place  ; but  yet  when  he  came  to  the  gate  he  had  not  the  courage  to  go  in,  but 
stopped  there,  not  knowing  whether  he  had  best  enter  or  no.  While  he  sat  musing,  two  men 
happened  to  come  out,  and  believing  they  knew  him,  “ Look,  master  doctor,”  cried  one  to  the  other, 
“ is  not  that  Sancho  Panza,  whom  the  housekeeper  told  us  her  master  had  inveigled  to  go  along 
with  him  ? ” 

“ The  same,”  answered  the  other ; “ and  more  than  that,  he  rides  on  Don  Quixote’s  horse.” 

Now  these  two  happened  to  be  the  curate  and  the  barber,  who  had  brought  his  books  to  a trial, 
and  passed  sentence  on  them  ; therefore  they  had  no  sooner  said  this,  but  they  called  to  Sancho, 
and  asked  him  where  he  had  left  his  master.  The  trusty  squire  presently  knew  them,  and,  having 
no  mind  to  discover  the  place  and  condition  he  left  his  master  in,  told  them  he  was  taken  up  with 
certain  business  of  great  consequence  at  a certain  place,  which  he  durst  not  discover  for  his  life 

“ How,  Sancho  !”  cried  the  barber;  “you  must  not  think  to  put  us  off  with  a flim-flam  story, 
if  you  will  not  tell  us  where  he  is,  we  shall  believe  you  have  murdered  him,  and  robbed  him  of  his 
horse  ; therefore  either  satisfy  us  where  you  have  left  him,  or  we  will  have  you  laid  by  the  heels.” 

“ Look  you,  neighbour,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I am  not  afraid  of  words,  do  you  see  ; I am  neither  a 
thief  nor  a manslayer  ; I kill  nobody,  so  nobody  kill  me  ; I leave  every  man  to  fall  by  his  own 
fortune,  or  by  the  hand  of  Him  that  made  him.  As  for  my  master,  I left  him  frisking  and  doing 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1^5 

penance  in  the  midst  of  yon  mountain,  to  his  heart’s  content.”  After  this,  without  any  further 
entreaty,  he  gave  them  a full  account  of  that  business,  and  of  all  their  adventures  ; how  he  was  then 
going  from  his  master  to  carry  a letter  to  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  Lorenzo  Corchuelo  s 
daughter,  with  whom  he  was  up  to  the  ears  in  love. 

The  curate  and  barber  stood  amazed,  hearing  all  these  particulars;  and  though  they  already 
knew  Don  Quixote’s  madness  but  too  well,  they  wondered  more  and  more  at  the  increase  of  it,  and 
at  so  strange  a cast  and  variety  of  extravagance.  Then  they  desired  Sancho  to  show  them  the 
letter.  He  told  them  it  was  written  in  a pocket-book,  and  that  his  master  had  ordered  him  to  get 
it  fairly  transcribed  upon  paper  at  the  next  village  he  should  come  at.  Whereupon  the  curate 
promising  to  write  it  out  very  fairly  himself,  Sancho  put  his  hand  into  his  bosom  to  give  him  the 
pocket-book ; but  though  he  fumbled  a great  while  for  it,  he  could  find  none  of  it ; he  searched  and 
searched  again,  but  it  had  been  in  vain  though  he  had  searched  till  doomsday,  for  he  came  away 
from  Don  Quixote  without  it.  This  put  him  into  a cold  sweat,  and  made  him  turn  as  pale  as 
death  ; he  fell  a-searching  all  his  clothes,  turned  his  pockets  inside  outwards,  fumbled  in  his  bosom 
again  : but  being  at  last  convinced  he  had  it  not  about  him,  he  fell  a-raving  and  stamping,  and 
cursing  himself  like  a madman  ; he  rent  his  beard  from  his  chin  with  both  hands,  befisted  his  own 
forgetful  skull,  and  his  blubber  cheeks,  and  gave  himself  a bloody  nose  in  a moment.  The  curate 
and  barber  asked  him  what  was  the  matter  with  him,  and  why  he  punished  himself  at  that  strange 
rate. 

“ I deserve  it  all,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ like  a blockhead  as  I am,  for  losing  at  one  cast  no  less  than 
three  asses,  of  which  the  least  was  worth  a castle.” 

“ How  so  ? ” quoth  the  barber. 

“ Why,”  cried  Sancho,  “ I have  lost  that  same  pocket-book,  wherein  was  written  Dulcinea’s 
letter,  and  a bill  of  exchange  drawn  by  my  master  upon  his  niece  for  three  of  the  five  asses  which 
he  has  at  home ; ” and  with  that  he  told  them  how  he  had  lost  his  own  ass.  But  the  curate  cheered 
him  up,  and  promised  him  to  get  another  bill  of  exchange  from  his  master  written  upon  paper, 
whereas  that  in  the  pocket-book,  not  being  in  due  form,  would  not  have  been  accepted.  With  that 
Sancho  took  courage,  and  told  them  if  it  were  so,  he  cared  not  a straw  for  Dulcinea’s  letter,  for  he 
knew  it  almost  all  by  rote. 

“ Then  prithee  let  us  hear  it,”  said  the  barber,  “ and  we  will  see  and  write  it.”  In  order  to 
this  Sancho  paused,  and  began  to  study  for  the  words  ; presently  he  fell  a-scratching  his  head, 
stood  first  upon  one  leg,  and  then  upon  another,  gaped  sometimes  upon  the  skies,  sometimes 
upon  the  ground  ; at  length,  after  he  had  gnawed  away  the  top  of  his  thumb,  and  quite  tired  out 
the  curate  and  barber’s  patience,  “ Before  George,”  cried  he,  “ Mr.  Doctor,  may  I be  choked  if  I 
can  remember  a word  of  this  letter,  but  only  that  there  was  at  the  beginning,  ‘ High  and  subterrene 
lady.’  ” 

“ Sovereign  or  superhuman  lady,  you  would  say,”  quoth  the  barber. 

u Ay,  ay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ you  are  in  the  right ; but  stay,  now  I think  I can  remember  some 

24 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


1 86 

of  that  which  followed  : ho  ! I have  it,  I have  it  now — ‘ He  that  is  wounded,  and  wants  sleep,  sends 

you  the  dagger which  he  wants  himself that  stabbed  him  to  the  heart and  the  hurt  man 

does  kiss  your  ladyship’s  hand’ and  at  last,  after  a thousand  hum’s  and  ha’s,  ‘Sweetest  Duleinea 

del  Toboso  ; ’ and  thus  he  went  on  rambling  a good  while  with  I do  not  know  what  more  of  fainting, 
and  relief,  and  sinking,  till  at  last  he  ended  with  ‘Yours  till  death,  the  Knight  of  the  Woful 

I 7 • y ) f 

" igure. 

The  curate  and  the  barber  were  mightily  pleased  with  Sancho’s  excellent  memory,  insomuch 
that  they  desired  him  to  repeat  the  letter  twice  or  thrice  more,  that  they  might  also  get  it  by  heart, 
and  write  it  down,  which  Sancho  did  very  freely,  but  every  time  he  made  many  odd  alterations  and 
additions  as  pleasant  as  the  first.  Then  he  told  them  many  other  things  of  his  master,  but  spoke 
not  a word  of  his  own  being  tossed  in  a blanket  at  that  very  inn.  He  also  told  them,  that  if  he 
brought  a kind  answer  from  the  Lady  Duleinea,  his  master  would  forthwith  set  out  to  see  and 
make  himself  an  emperor,  or  at  least  a king  ; for  so  they  two  had  agreed  between  themselves,  he 
said  ; and  that,  after  all,  it  was  a mighty  easy  matter  for  his  master  to  become  one,  such  was  his 
prowess,  and  the  strength  of  his  arm  ; which  being  done,  his  master  would  marry  him  to  one  of  the 
empress’s  damsels,  and  that  fine  lady  was  to  be  heiress  to  a large  country  on  the  main  land,  but  not 
to  any  island  or  islands,  for  he  was  out  of  conceit  with  them.  Poor  Sancho  spoke  all  this  so 
seriously,  and  so  feelingly,  ever  and  anon  wiping  his  nose,  and  stroking  his  beard,  that  now  the 
curate  and  the  barber  were  more  surprised  than  they  were  before,  considering  the  prevalent 
influences  of  Don  Quixote’s  folly  upon  that  silly,  credulous  fellow.  However,  they  did  not  think  it 
worth  their  while  to  undeceive  him  yet,  seeing  only  this  was  a harmless  delusion,  that  might 
divert  them  a while  ; and  therefore  they  exhorted  him  to  pray  for  his  master’s  health  and  long  life, 
seeing  that  it  was  no  impossible  thing,  but  that  he  might  in  time  become  an  emperor  as  he  said,  or 
at  least  an  archbishop,  or  somewhat  else  equivalent  to  it. 

“ But,  pray,  good  Mr.  Doctor,”  asked  Sancho,  “ should  my  master  have  no  mind  to  be  an 
emperor,  and  take  a fancy  to  be  an  archbishop,  I would  fain  know  what  your  archbishops-errant  are 
wont  to  give  their  squires  ? ” 

“ Why,”  answered  the  curate,  “ they  use  to  give  them  some  parsonage,  or  sinecure,  or  some 
such  other  benefice,  or  church  living,  which,  with  the  profits  of  the  altar,  and  other  fees,  brings  them 
in  a handsome  revenue.” 

“ Ay,  but,”  says  Sancho,  “ to  put  in  for  that,  the  squire  must  be  a single  man,  and  know  how  to 
answer,  and  assist  at  mass  at  least ; and  how  shall  I do  that,  seeing  I have  the  ill  luck  to  be  married  ? 
nay,  and  besides  I do  not  so  much  as  know  the  first  letter  of  my  Christ  Cross  Row.  What  will 
become  of  me,  should  it  come  into  my  master’s  head  to  make  himself  an  archbishop,  and  not  an 
emperor,  as  it  is  the  custom  of  knights-errant  ? ” 

“ Do  not  let  that  trouble  thee,  friend  Sancho,”  said  the  barber  “ we  will  talk  to  him  about  it, 
and  advise  him,  nay,  urge  him  to  it  as  a point  of  conscience,  to  be  an  emperor,  and  not  an  archbishop, 
which  will  be  better  for  him,  by  reason  he  has  more  courage  than  learning.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


l87 


“ Troth,  I am  of  your  mind,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ though  he  is  such  a headpiece,  that  I dare  say 
he  can  turn  himself  to  anything  : nevertheless,  I mean  to  make  it  the  burthen  of  my  prayers,  that 
Heaven  may  direct  him  to  that  which  is  best  for  him,  and  what  may  enable  him  to  reward  me 
most.” 

“ You  speak  like  a wise  man  and  a good  Christian,”  said  the  curate  : “ but  all  we  have  to  do 
at  present  is  to  see  how  we  shall  get  your  master  to  give  over  that  severe,  unprofitable  penance 
which  he  has  undertaken ; and  therefore  let  us  go  in  to  consider  about  it,  and  also  to  eat  our  dinner, 
for  I fancy  it  is  ready  about  this  time.” 

“ Do  you  two  go  in,  if  you  please,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  as  for  me,  I had  rather  stay  without ; 
and  anon  I’ll  tell  you  why  I do  not  care  to  go  in  a’  doors  : however,  pray  send  me  out  a piece  of  hot 
victuals  to  eat  here,  and  some  provender  for  Rozinante.”  With  that  they  went  in,  and  a while 
after  the  barber  brought  him  out  some  meat ; and  returning  to  the  curate,  they  consulted  how  to 
compass  their  design.  At  last  the  latter  luckily  bethought  himself  of  an  expedient  that  seemed 
most  likely  to  take,  as  exactly  fitting  Don  Quixote’s  humour  ; which  was,  that  he  should  disguise 
himself  in  the  habit  of  a damsel-errant,  and  the  barber  should  alter  his  dress  as  well  as  he  could,  so 
as  to  pass  for  a squire,  or  gentleman-usher.  “ In  that  equipage,”  added  he,  “ we  will  go  to  Don 
Quixote,  and  feigning  myself  to  be  a distressed  damsel,  I will  beg  a boon  of  him,  which  he,  as  a 
valorous  knight-errant,  will  not  fail  to  promise  me.  By  this  means  I will  engage  him  to  go  with  me 
to  redress  a very  great  injury  done  me  by  a false  and  discourteous  knight,  beseeching  him  not  to 
desire  to  see  my  face,  nor  ask  me  anything  about  my  circumstances,  till  he  has  revenged  me  of  that 
wicked  knight.  This  bait  will  take,  I dare  engage,  and  by  this  stratagem  we  will  decoy  him  back 
to  his  own  house,  where  we  will  try  to  cure  him  of  his  romantic  frenzy.” 


« * Fisa n- 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

HOW  THE  CURATE  AND  BARBER  PUT  THEIR  DESIGN  IN  EXECUTION  ; WITH  OTHER  THINGS  WORTHY  TO 

BE  RECORDED  IN  THIS  IMPORTANT  HISTORY. 

THE  curate’s  project  was  so  well  liked  by  the  barber,  that  they  instantly  put  it  into  practice. 

First,  they  borrowed  a complete  woman’s  apparel  of  the  hostess,  leaving  her  in  pawn  a new 
cassock  of  the  curate’s  ; and  the  barber  made  himself  a long  beard  with  a grizzled  ox’s  tail,  in  which 
the  innkeeper  used  to  hang  his  combs.  The  hostess  being  desirous  to  know  what  they  intended  to 
do  with  those  things,  the  curate  gave  her  a short  account  of  Don  Quixote  s distraction,  and  their 
design.  Whereupon  the  innkeeper  and  his  wife  presently  guessed  this  was  their  romantic  knight, 
that  made  the  precious  balsam  ; and  accordingly  they  told  them  the  whole  story  of  Don  Quixote’s 
lodging  there,  and  of  Sancho’s  being  tossed  in  a blanket : which  done,  the  hostess  readily  fitted 
out  the  curate  at  such  a rate,  that  it  would  have  pleased  any  one  to  have  seen  him  ; for  she  dressed 
him  up  in  a cloth  gown  trimmed  with  borders  of  black  velvet,  the  breadth  of  a span,  all  pinked 
and  jagged  ; and  a green  velvet  bodice,  with  sleeves  of  the  same,  and  faced  with  white  satin ; 
which  accoutrements  probably  had  been  in  fashion  in  old  King  Wamba’s  days.  The  curate  would 
not  let  her  encumber  his  head  with  a woman’s  head-gear,  but  only  clapped  upon  his  crown  a white 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


189 


quilted  cap  which  he  used  to  wear  a-nights,  and  bound  his  forehead  with  one  of  his  garters,  that  was 
of  black  taffety,  making  himself  a kind  of  muffler  and  vizard  mask  with  the  other:  then  he  half  buried 
his  head  under  his  hat,  pulling  it  down  to  squeeze  in  his  ears  : and  as  the  broad  brim  flapped  down 
over  his  eyes,  it  seemed  a kind  of  umbrella.  This  done,  he  wrapped  his  cloak  about  him,  and 
seated  himself  on  his  mule  sideways,  like  a woman  : then  the  barber  clapped  on  his  ox-tail  beard, 
half-red  and  half-grizzled,  which  hung  from  his  chin  down  to  his  waist ; and,  having  mounted  his 
mule,  they  took  leave  of  their  host  and  hostess,  as  also  of  the  good-conditioned  Maritornes,  who 
vowed,  though  she  was  a sinner,  to  tumble  her  beads,  and  say  a rosary  to  the  good  success  of  so 
arduous  and  truly  Christian  an  undertaking. 

But  scarce  were  they  got  out  of  the  inn,  when  the  curate  began  to  be  troubled  with  a scruple 
of  conscience  about  his  putting  on  woman’s  apparel,  being  apprehensive  of  the  indecency  of  the 
disguise  in  a priest,  though  the  goodness  of  his  intention  might  well  warrant  a dispensation  from 
the  strictness  of  decorum  : therefore  he  desired  the  barber  to  change  dresses,  for  that  in  his  habit  of 
a squire  he  should  less  profane  his  own  dignity  and  character,  to  which  he  ought  to  have  a greater 
regard  than  to  Don  Quixote  ; withal  assuring  the  barber,  that  unless  he  consented  to  this  exchange, 
he  was  absolutely  resolved  to  go  no  farther,  though  it  were  to  save  Don  Quixote’s  soul.  Sancho 
came  up  with  them  just  upon  their  demur,  and  was  ready  to  split  his  sides  with  laughing  at  the 
sight  of  these  strange  masqueraders.  In  short,  the  barber  consented  to  be  the  damsel,  and  to 
let  the  curate  be  the  squire.  Now,  while  they  were  thus  changing  sexes,  the  curate  offered  to  tutor 
him  how  to  behave  himself  in  that  female  attire,  so  as  to  be  able  to  wheedle  Don  Quixote  out  of  his 
penance  ; but  the  barber  desired  him  not  to  trouble  himself  about  that  matter,  assuring  him  that  he 
was  well  enough  versed  in  female  affairs  to  be  able  to  act  a damsel  without  any  directions  : however, 
he  said  he  would  not  now  stand  fiddling  and  managing  his  pins,  to  prink  himself  up,  seeing  it  would 
be  time  enough  to  do  that  when  they  came  near  Don  Quixote’s  hermitage  ; and,  therefore,  having- 
folded  up  his  clothes,  and  the  curate  his  beard,  they  spurred  on,  while  their  guide  Sancho 
entertained  them  with  a relation  of  the  mad,  tattered  gentleman  whom  they  had  met  in  the  mountain 
— however,  without  mentioning  a word  of  the  portmanteau  or  the  gold  ; for,  as  much  a fool  as  he 
was,  he  loved  money,  and  knew  how  to  keep  it  when  he  had  it,  and  was  wise  enough  to  keep  his 
own  counsel. 

They  got  the  next  day  to  the  place  where  Sancho  had  strewed  the  boughs  to  direct  them  to 
Don  Quixote  ; and,  therefore,  he  advised  them  to  put  on  their  disguises,  if  it  were,  as  they  told 
him,  that  their  design  was  only  to  make  his  master  leave  that  wretched  kind  of  life,  in  order  to 
become  an  emperor.  Thereupon  they  charged  him  on  his  life  not  to  take  the  least  notice  who  they 
were.  As  for  Dulcinea’s  letter,  if  Don  Quixote  asked  him  about  it,  they  ordered  him  to  say  he  had 
delivered  it ; but  that  by  reason  she  could  neither  write  nor  read,  she  had  sent  him  her  answer  by 
word  of  mouth  ; which  was,  that,  on  pain  of  her  indignation,  he  should  immediately  put  an  end  to 
his  severe  penance,  and  repair  to  her  presence.  This,  they  told  Sancho,  together  with  what  they 
themselves  designed  to  say,  was  the  only  way  to  oblige  his  master  to  leave  the  desert,  that  he 


1 90 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


might  prosecute  his  design  of  making  himself  an  emperor  ; assuring  him  they  would  take  care  he 
should  not  entertain  the  least  thought  of  an  archbishopric. 

Sancho  listened  with  great  attention  to  all  these  instructions,  and  treasured  them  up  in  his 
mind,  pfivingr  the  curate  and  the  barber  a world  of  thanks  for  their  good  intention  of  advising  his 
master  to  become  an  emperor,  and  not  an  archbishop  ; for,  as  he  said,  he  imagined,  in  his  simple 
judgment,  that  an  emperor-errant  was  ten  times  better  than  an  archbishop-errant,  and  could  reward 
his  squire  a great  deal  better. 

He  likewise  added  that  he  thought  it  would  be  proper  for  him  to  go  to  his  master  somewhat 
before  them,  and  give  him  an  account  of  his  lady’s  kind  answer ; for  perhaps  that  alone  would  be 
sufficient  to  fetch  him  out  of  that  place,  without  putting  them  to  any  further  trouble.  They  liked 
this  proposal  very  well,  and  therefore  agreed  to  let  him  go,  and  wait  there  till  he  came  back  to  give 
them  an  account  of  his  success.  With  that  Sancho  rode  away,  and  struck  into  the  clefts  of  the 
rock,  in  order  to  find  out  his  master,  leaving  the  curate  and  the  barber  by  the  side  of  a brook, 
where  the  neighbouring  hills  and  some  trees  that  grew  along  its  banks  combined  to  make  a cool 
and  pleasant  shade.  There  they  sheltered  themselves  from  the  scorching  beams  of  the  sun,  that 
commonly  shines  intolerably  hot  in  those  parts  at  that  time,  being  about  the  middle  of  August,  and 
hardly  three  o’clock  in  the  afternoon.  While  they  quietly  refreshed  themselves  in  that  delightful 
place,  where  they  agreed  to  stay  till  Sancho’s  return,  they  heard  a voice,  which,  though  unattended 
with  any  instrument,  ravished  their  ears  with  its  melodious  sound  : and  what  increased  their 
surprise  and  their  admiration  was,  to  hear  such  artful  notes  and  such  delicate  music  in  so  un- 
frequented and  wild  a place,  where  scarce  any  rustics  ever  straggled,  much  less  skilful  songsters,  as 
the  person  whom  they  heard  unquestionably  was  ; for  though  the  poets  are  pleased  to  fill  the  fields 
and  woods  with  swains  and  shepherdesses  that  sing  with  all  the  sweetness  and  delicacy  imaginable, 
yet  it  is  well  enough  known  that  those  gentlemen  deal  more  in  fiction  than  in  truth,  and  love  to 
embellish  the  descriptions  they  make  with  things  that  have  no  existence  but  in  their  own  brain. 
Nor  could  our  two  listening  travellers  think  it  the  voice  of  a peasant,  when  they  began  to  dis- 
tinguish the  words  of  the  song,  for  they  seemed  to  relish  more  of  a courtly  style  than  a rural 
composition.  These  were  the  verses  : — 


A SONG. 


I. 

What  makes  me  languish  and  complain  ? 


What  in  my  breast  this  anguish  drove  ? 


II. 


Oh,  ’tis  disdain 


Intruding  love. 


What  yet  more  fiercely  tortures  me  ? 


Who  could  such  mighty  ills  create  ? 


’Tis  jealousy. 


Blind  Fortune’s  hate. 


How  have  I my  patience  lost  ? 


What  cruel  powers  my  fate  approve? 


By  absence  crost. 


The  powers  above. 


Then  hopes  farewell,  there’s  no  relief; 
I sink  beneath  oppressing  grief ; 

Nor  can  a wretch,  without  despair, 
Scorn,  jealousy,  and  absence  bear. 


When  these  invade,  who  dares  oppose  ? 
Heaven,  Love,  and  Fortune  are  my  foes, 


Then  let  me  bear,  and  cease  to  moan  ; 
’Tis  glorious  thus  to  be  undone  : 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Where  shall  I find  a speedy  cure  ? 

Death  is  sure. 

No  milder  means  to  set  me  free  ? 

Inconstancy. 

Can  nothing  else  my  pains  assuage  ? 

Distracting  rage. 

What  ! die  or  change  ? Lucinda  lose? 

Oh,  rather  let  me  madness  choose ! 

But  judge,  ye  gods,  what  we  endure, 

When  death  or  madness  are  a cure! 

The  time,  the  hour,  the  solitariness  of  the  place,  the  voice  and  agreeable  manner  with  which 
the  unseen  musician  sung,  so  filled  the  hearers’  minds  with  wonder  and  delight,  that  they  were  all 
attention ; and  when  the  voice  was  silent,  they  continued  so  too  a pretty  while,  watching  with 
listening  ears  to  catch  the  expected  sounds,  expressing  their  satisfaction  best  by  that  dumb  applause. 
At  last,  concluding  the  person  would  sing  no  more,  they  resolved  to  find  out  the  charming  songster: 
but  as  they  were  going  so  to  do,  they  heard  the  wished-for  voice  begin  another  air,  which  fixed 
them  where  they  stood  till  it  had  sung  the  following  sonnet : — 

A SONNET. 

Oh,  sacred  Friendship,  Heaven’s  delight, 

Which,  tired  with  man’s  unequal  mind, 

Took  to  thy  native  skies  thy  flight, 

While  scarce  thy  shadow's  left  behind  ! 

From  thee,  diffusive  good  below, 

Peace  and  her  train  of  joys  we  trace  ; 

But  falsehood  with  dissembled  show 
Too  oft  usurps  thy  sacred  face. 

Bless’d  genius,  then  resume  thy  seat ! 

Destroy  imposture  and  deceit, 

Which  in  thy  dress  confound  the  ball ! 

Harmonious  peace  and  truth  renew, 

Show  the  false  friendship  from  the  true, 

Or  Nature  must  to  Chaos  fall. 

This  sonnet  concluded  with  a deep  sigh,  and  such  doleful  throbs,  that  the  curate  and  the 
barber,  now  out  of  pity,  as  well  as  curiosity  before,  resolved  instantly  to  find  out  who  this  mournful 
songster  was.  They  had  not  gone  far,  when,  by  the  side  of  a rock,  they  discovered  a man,  whose 
shape  and  aspect  answered  exactly  to  the  description  Sancho  had  given  them  of  Cardenio.  They 
observed  he  stopped  short  as  soon  as  he  spied  them,  yet  without  any  signs  of  fear  ; only  he  hung 
down  his  head,  like  one  abandoned  to  sorrow,  never  so  much  as  lifting  up  his  eyes  to  mind  what 
they  did.  The  curate,  who  was  a good  and  a well-spoken  man,  presently  guessing  him  to  be  the 
same  of  whom  Sancho  had  given  them  an  account,  went  towards  him,  and,  addressing  himself  to 
him  with  great  civility  and  discretion,  earnestly  entreated  him  to  forsake  this  desert,  and  a course  of 
life  so  wretched  and  forlorn,  which  endangered  his  title  to  a better,  and  from  a wilful  misery  might 
make  him  fall  into  greater  and  everlasting  woes.  Cardenio  was  then  free  from  the  distraction  that 


192 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


so  often  disturbed  his  senses  ; yet  seeing  two  persons  in  a garb  wholly  different  from  that  of  those 
few  rustics  who  frequented  those  deserts,  and  hearing  them  talk  as  if  they  were  no  strangers  to  his 
concerns,  he  was  somewhat  surprised  at  first ; however,  having  looked  upon  them  earnestly  for 
some  time,  “ Gentlemen,”  said  he,  “ whoever  ye  be,  I find  Heaven,  pitying  my  misfortunes,  has 
brought  ye  to  these  solitary  regions,  to  retrieve  me  from  this  frightful  retirement,  and  recover  me  to 
the  society  of  men  : but  because  you  do  not  know  how  unhappy  a fate  attends  me,  and  that  I never 
am  free  from  one  affliction  but  to  fall  into  a greater,  you  perhaps  take  me  for  a man  naturally 
endowed  with  a very  small  stock  of  sense,  and,  what  is  worse,  for  one  of  those  wretches  who  are 
altogether  deprived  of  reason.  And,  indeed,  I cannot  blame  any  one  that  entertains  such  thoughts 
of  me  ; for  even  I myself  am  convinced  that  the  bare  remembrance  of  my  disasters  often  distracts 
me  to  that  degree,  that,  losing  all  sense  of  reason  and  knowledge,  I unman  myself  for  the  time,  and 
launch  into  those  extravagances  which  nothing  but  height  of  frenzy  and  madness  would  commit  : 
and  I am  the  more  sensible  of  my  being  troubled  with  this  distemper,  when  people  tell  me  what  I have 
done  during  the  violence  of  that  terrible  accident,  and  give  me  too  certain  proofs  of  it.  And,  after 
all,  I can  allege  no  other  excuse  but  the  cause  of  my  misfortune,  which  occasioned  that  frantic  rage, 
and,  therefore,  tell  the  story  of  my  hard  fate  to  as  many  as  have  the  patience  to  hear  it  ; for  men  of 
sense,  perceiving  the  cause,  will  not  wonder  at  the  effects  ; and  though  they  can  give  me  no  relief, 
yet,  at  least,  they  will  cease  to  condemn  me ; for  a bare  relation  of  my  wrongs  must  needs  make 
them  lose  their  resentments  of  the  effects  of  my  disorder  into  a compassion  of  my  miserable  fate. 
Therefore,  gentlemen,  if  you  came  here  with  that  design,  I beg  that  before  you  give  yourselves  the 
trouble  of  reproving  or  advising  me,  you  will  be  pleased  to  attend  to  the  relation  of  my  calamities  ; 
for  perhaps  when  you  have  heard  it,  you  will  think  them  past  redress,  and  so  will  save  yourselves 
the  labour  you  would  take.” 

The  curate  and  the  barber,  who  desired  nothing  more  than  to  hear  the  story  from  his  own 
mouth,  were  extremely  glad  of  his  proffer ; and,  having  assured  him  they  had  no  design  to 
aggravate  his  miseries  with  pretending  to  remedy  them,  nor  would  they  cross  his  inclinations  in  the 
least,  they  entreated  him  to  begin  his  relation. 

The  unfortunate  Cardenio  then  began  his  story,  and  went  on  with  the  first  part  of  it  almost  in 
the  same  words,  as  far  as  when  he  related  it  to  Don  Quixote  and  the  goatherd,  when  the  knight, 
out  of  superstitious  niceness  to  observe  the  decorum  of  chivalry,  gave  an  interruption  to  the  relation 
by  quarrelling  about  Mr.  Elisabat,  as  we  have  already  said.  Then  he  went  on  with  that  passage 
concerning  the  letter  sent  him  by  Lucinda,  which  Don  Ferdinand  had  unluckily  found,  happening 
to  open  the  book  of  Amadis  de  Gaul  first,  when  Lucinda  sent  it  back  to  Cardenio,  with  that  letter 
in  it  between  the  leaves,  which  Cardenio  told  them  was  as  follows  : — • 

Lucinda  to  Cardenio. 

' “ I discover  in  you  every  day  so  much  merit,  that  I am  obliged,  or  rather  forced,  to  esteem 

you  more  and  more.  If  you  think  this  acknowledgment  to  your  advantage,  make  that  use  of  it 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


193 


which  is  most  consistent  with  your  honour  and  mine.  I have  a father  that  knows  you,  and  is  too 
kind  a parent  ever  to  obstruct  my  designs,  when  he  shall  be  satisfied  with  their  being  just  and 
honourable  : so  that  it  is  now  your  part  to  show  you  love  me,  as  you  pretend,  and  I believe.” 

“ This  letter,”  continued  Cardenio,  ‘‘made  me  resolve  once  more  to  demand  Lucinda  of  her 
father  in  marriage,  and  was  the  same  that  increased  Don  Ferdinand’s  esteem  for  her,  by  that 
discovery  of  her  sense  and  discretion,  which  so  inflamed  his  soul,  that  from  that  moment  he  secretly 
resolved  to  destroy  my  hopes  ere  I could  be  so  happy  as  to  crown  them  with  success.  I told 
that  perfidious  friend  what  Lucinda’s  father  had  advised  me  to  do  when  I had  rashly  asked  her  for 
my  wife  before,  and  that  I durst  not  now  impart  this  to  my  father,  lest  he  should  not  readily 
consent  I should  marry  yet.  Not  but  that  he  knew  that  her  quality,  beauty,  and  virtue  were 
sufficient  to  make  her  an  ornament  to  the  noblest  house  in  Spain,  but  because  I was  apprehensive 
he  would  not  let  me  marry  till  he  saw  what  the  duke  would  do  for  me.  Don  Ferdinand,  with  a 
pretended  officiousness,  proffered  me  to  speak  to  my  father,  and  persuade  him  to  treat  with 
Lucinda’s.  Ungrateful  man!  deceitful  friend!  ambitious  Marius!  cruel  Catiline!  wicked  Sylla ! 
perfidious  Galalon ! faithless  Veliido  ! malicious  Julian!  treacherous,  covetous  Judas!  thou  all 
those  fatal,  hated  men  in  one,  false  Ferdinand!  What  wrongs  had  that  fond,  confiding  wretch  done 
thee,  who  thus  to  thee  unbosomed  all  his  cares,  all  the  delights  and  secrets  of  his  soul  ? What 
injury  did  I ever  utter,  or  advice  did  I ever  give,  which  were  not  all  directed  to  advance  thy 
honour  and  profit  ? But,  oh  ! I rave,  unhappy  wretch  ! I should  rather  accuse  the  cruelty  of  my 
stars,  whose  fatal  influence  pours  mischiefs  on  me,  which  no  earthly  force  can  resist  or  human  art 
prevent.  Who  would  have  thought  that  Don  Ferdinand,  whose  quality  and  merit  entitled  him  to 
the  lawful  possession  of  beauties  of  the  highest  rank,  and  whom  I had  engaged  by  a thousand 
endearing  marks  of  friendship  and  services,  should  forfeit  thus  his  honour  and  his  truth,  and  lay 
such  a treacherous  design  to  deprive  me  of  all  the  happiness  of  my  life  ? But  I must  leave 
expostulating,  to  end  my  story.  The  traitor  Ferdinand,  thinking  his  project  impracticable  while  I 
stayed  near  Lucinda,  bargained  for  six  fine  horses  the  same  day  he  promised  to  speak  to  my  father, 
and  presently  desired  me  to  ride  away  to  his  brother  for  money  to  pay  for  them.  Alas  ! I was  so 
far  from  suspecting  his  treachery,  that  I was  glad  of  doing  him  a piece  of  service.  Accordingly,  I 
went  that  very  evening  to  take  my  leave  of  Lucinda,  and  to  tell  her  what  Don  Ferdinand  had 
promised  to  do.  She  bid  me  return  with  all  the  haste  of  an  expecting  lover,  not  doubting  but  our 
lawful  wishes  might  be  crowned,  as  soon  as  my  father  had  spoke  for  me  to  be  hers.  When  she 
had  said  this,  I marked  her  trickling  tears,  and  a sudden  grief  so  obstructed  her  speech,  that,  though 
she  seemed  to  strive  to  tell  me  something  more,  she  could  not  give  it  utterance.  This  unusual 
scene  of  sorrow  strangely  amazed  and  distressed  me ; yet,  because  I would  not  murder  hope,  I 
chose  to  attribute  this  to  the  tenderness  of  her  affection,  and  unwillingness  to  part  with  me.  In' 
short,  away  I went,  buried  in  deep  melancholy,  and  full  of  fears  and  imaginations,  for  which  I could 

give  no  manner  of  reason.  I delivered  Don  Ferdinand’s  letter  to  his  brother,  who  received  me 

25 


194 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


with  all  the  kindness  imaginable,  but  did  not  dispatch  me  as  I expected  ; for,  to  my  sorrow,  he 
enjoined  me  to  tarry  a whole  week,  and  to  take  care  the  duke  might  not  see  me,  his  brother  having 
sent  for  money  unknown  to  his  father  : but  this  was  only  a device  of  false  Ferdinand’s  ; for  his 
brother  did  not  want  money,  and  might  have  dispatched  me  immediately,  had  he  not  been  privately 
desired  to  delay  my  return. 

“ This  was  so  displeasing  an  injunction,  that  I was  ready  to  come  away  without  the  money,  not 
being  able  to  live  so  long  absent  from  my  Lucinda,  principally  considering  in  what  condition  I had 
left  her.  Yet,  at  last,  I forced  myself  to  stay,  and  my  respect  for  my  friend  prevailed  over  my 
impatience  : but,  ere  four  tedious  days  were  expired,  a messenger  brought  me  a letter,  which  I 
presently  knew  to  be  Lucinda’s  hand.  I opened  it  with  trembling  hands  and  an  aching  heart, 
justly  imagining  it  was  no  ordinary  concern  that  could  urge  her  to  send  thither  to  me  ; and,  before 
I read  it,  I asked  the  messenger  who  had  given  it  him.  He  answered  me  that,  ‘going  by  acci- 
dentally in  the  street,  about  noon,  in  our  town,  a very  handsome  lady,  all  in  tears,  had  called  him 

to  her  window,  and,  with  great  precipitation,  “ Friend,”  said  she,  “ if  you  be  a Christian,  as  you 
seem  to  be,  take  this  letter,  and  deliver  it  with  all  speed  into  the  person’s  own  hand  to  whom 

it  is  directed.  I assure  you,  in  this  you  will  do  a very  good  action  ; and  that  you  may  not 

want  means  to  do  it,  take  what  is  wrapped  up  in  this.”  And,  saying  so,  she  threw  a hand- 
kerchief, wherein  I found  a hundred  reals,  this  gold  ring  which  you  see,  and  the  letter  which  I 
now  brought  you;  which  done,  I having  made  her  signs  to  let  her  know  I would  do  as  she  desired, 
without  so  much  as  staying  for  an  answer,  she  went  from  the  grate.  This  reward,  but  much  more 
that  beautiful  lady’s  tears  and  earnest  prayers,  made  me  post  away  to  you  that  very  minute ; and 
so,  in  sixteen  hours,  I have  travelled  eighteen  long  leagues.’  While  the  messenger  spoke,  I was 
seized  with  sad  apprehensions  of  some  fatal  news  ; and  such  a trembling  shook  my  limbs,  that  I 
could  scarce  support  myself.  At  length,  however,  I ventured  to  read  the  letter,  which  contained 
these  words  : — 

“ ‘ Don  Ferdinand,  according  to  his  promise,  has  desired  your  father  to  speak  to  mine ; but  he 
has  done  that  for  himself  which  you  had  engaged  him  to  do  for  you,  for  he  has  demanded  me  for 
his  wife ; and  my  father,  allured  by  the  advantages  which  he  expects  from  such  an  alliance,  has  so 
far  consented  that  two  days  hence  the  marriage  is  to  be  performed,  and  with  such  privacy,  that  only 
Heaven  and  some  of  the  family  are  to  be  witnesses.  Judge  of  the  affliction  of  my  soul  by  that 
concern  which,  I guess,  fills  your  own  ; and  therefore  haste  to  me,  my  dear  Cardenio.  The  issue 
of  this  business  will  show  you  how  much  I love  you  : and  grant,  propitious  Heaven  ! this  may  reach 
your  hand  ere  mine  is  in  danger  of  being  joined  with  his  who  keeps  his  promises  so  ill  ! ’ 

“ I had  no  sooner  read  the  letter,”  added  Cardenio,  “ but  away  I flew,  without  waiting  for  my 
dispatch  ; for  then  I too  plainly  discovered  Don  Ferdinand’s  treachery,  and  that  he  had  only  sent 
me  to  his  brother  to  take  the  advantage  of  my  absence.  Revenge,  love,  and  impatience  gave  me 
wings,  so  that  I got  home  privately  the  next  day,  just  when  it  grew  duskish,  in  good  time  to  speak 
with  Lucinda;  and,  leaving  my  mule  at  the  honest  man’s  house  who  brought  me  the  letter,  I went 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


r95 


to  wait  upon  my  mistress,  whom  I luckily  found  at  the  window — the  only  witness  of  our  loves. 
She  presently  knew  me,  and  I her,  but  she  did  not  welcome  me  as  I expected,  nor  did  I find  her 
in  such  a dress  as  I thought  suitable  to  our  circumstances.  But  what  man  has  assurance  enough 
but  to  pretend  to  know  thoroughly  the  riddle  of  a woman’s  mind,  and  who  could  ever  hope  to  fix 
her  mutable  nature  ? ‘ Cardcnio,’  said  Lucinda  to  me,  ‘ my  wedding-clothes  are  on,  and  the 

perfidious  Ferdinand,  with  my  covetous  father  and  the  rest,  stay  for  me  in  the  hall,  to  perform  the 
marriage  rites.  But  they  shall  sooner  be  witnesses  of  my  death  than  of  my  nuptials.  Be  not 
troubled,  my  dear  Cardenio,  but  rather  strive  to  be  present  at  that  sacrifice.  I promise  thee,  if 
entreaties  and  words  cannot  prevent  it,  I have  a dagger  that  shall  do  me  justice;  and  my  death,  at 
least,  shall  give  thee  undeniable  assurances  of  my  love  and  fidelity.’  ‘ Do,  madam,’  cried  I to  her, 
with  precipitation,  and  so  disordered  that  I did  not  know  what  I said  ; ‘ let  your  actions  verify 
your  words  ; let  us  leave  nothing  unattempted  which  may  serve  our  common  interests  ; and,  I 
assure  you,  if  my  sword  does  not  defend  them  well,  I will  turn  it  upon  my  own  breast  rather  than 
outlive  my  disappointment.’  I cannot  tell  whether  Lucinda  heard  me,  for  she  was  called  away  in 
great  haste,  the  bridegroom  impatiently  expecting  her.  My  spirit  forsook  me  when  she  left  me, 
and  my  sorrows  and  confusion  cannot  be  expressed.  Methought  I saw  the  sun  set  for  ever  ; and 
my  eyes  and  senses  partaking  of  my  distraction,  I could  not  so  much  as  spy  the  door  to  go  into  the 
house,  and  seemed  rooted  to  the  place  where  I stood.  But  at  last,  the  consideration  of  my  love 
having  roused  me  out  of  this  stupefying  astonishment,  I got  into  the  house  without  being  discovered, 
everything  being  there  in  a hurry  ; and,  going  into  the  hall,  I hid  myself  behind  the  hangings,  where 
two  pieces  of  tapestry  met,  and  gave  me  liberty  to  see  without  being  seen.  Who  can  describe  the 
various  thoughts,  the  doubts,  the  fears,  the  anguish  that  perplexed  and  tossed  my  soul  while  I stood 
waiting  there  ? Don  Ferdinand  entered  the  hall,  not  like  a bridegroom,  but  in  his  usual  habit,  with 
only  a cousin-german  of  Lucinda’s  ; the  rest  were  the  people  of  the  house.  Some  time  after  came 
Lucinda  herself,  with  her  mother  and  two  waiting- women.  I perceived  she  was  as  richly  dressed 
as  was  consistent  with  her  quality,  and  the  solemnity  of  the  ceremony  ; but  the  distraction  that 
possessed  me  lent  me  no  time  to  note  particularly  the  apparel  she  had  on.  I only  marked  the 
colours,  that  were  carnation  and  white,  and  the  splendour  of  the  jewels  that  enriched  her  dress  in 
many  places ; but  nothing  equalled  the  lustre  of  her  beauty,  that  adorned  her  person  much  more 
than  all  those  ornaments.  Oh,  memory  ! thou  fatal  enemy  of  my  ease  ! why  dost  thou  now  so 
faithfully  represent  to  the  eyes  of  my  mind  Lucinda’s  incomparable  charms  ? why  dost  thou  not 
rather  show  me  what  she  did  then,  that,  moved  by  so  provoking  a wrong,  I may  endeavour  to 
revenge  it,  or  at  least  to  die  ? Forgive  me  these  tedious  digressions,  gentlemen;  alas!  my  woes  arc 
not  such  as  can  or  ought  to  be  related  with  brevity,  for  to  me  every  circumstance  seems  worthy  to 
be  enlarged  upon.’’ 

I he  curate  assured  Cardenio  that  they  attended  every  word  with  a mournful  pleasure,  that 
made  them  greedy  of  hearing  the  least  passage.  With  that  Cardenio  went  on.  “ All  parties  being 
met,”  said  he,  “ the  priest  entered,  and,  taking  the  young  couple  by  the  hands,  lie  asked  Lucinda 


196 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


whether  she  were  willing  to  take  Don  Ferdinand  for  her  wedded  husband  ? With  that,  I thrust  out  my 
head  from  between  the  two  pieces  of  tapestry,  listening  with  anxious  heart  to  hear  her  answer,  upon 
which  depended  my  life  and  happiness.  Dull,  heartless  wretch  that  I was ! Why  did  I not  then 
show  myself?  why  did  I not  call  to  her  aloud,  ‘Consider  what  thou  dost,  Lucinda;  thou  art  mine, 
and  canst  not  be  another  man’s  : nor  canst  thou  now  speak  the  fatal  Yes,  without  injuring  Heaven, 
thyself,  and  me,  and  murdering  thy  Cardenio  ? And  thou,  perfidious  Ferdinand,  who  darest  to 
violate  all  rights,  both  human  and  divine,  to  rob  me  of  my  treasure ! canst  thou  hope  to  deprive  me 
of  the  comfort  of  my  life  with  impunity  ? Or  thinkest  thou  that  any  consideration  can  stifle  my 
resentment  when  my  honour  and  my  love  lie  at  stake  ? ’ Fool  that  I am  ! now  that  it  is  too  late, 
and  danger  is  far  distant,  I say  what  I should  have  done,  and  not  what  I did  then.  After  I have 
suffered  the  treasure  of  my  soul  to  be  stolen,  I exclaim  against  the  thief  whom  I might  have 
punished  for  the  base  attempt,  had  I had  but  so  much  resolution  to  revenge  as  I have  now  to 
complain.  Then  let  me  rather  accuse  my  faint  heart,  that  durst  not  do  me  right,  and  let  me  die 
here  like  a wretch,  void  both  of  sense  and  honour,  the  outcast  of  society  and  nature.  The  priest  stood 
waiting  for  Lucinda’s  answer  a good  while  before  she  gave  it ; and  all  that  time  I expected  she 
would  have  pulled  out  her  dagger,  or  unloosened  her  tongue  to  plead  her  former  engagement  to  me. 
But,  alas  ! to  my  eternal  disappointment,  I heard  her  at  last,  with  a feeble  voice,  pronounce  the 
fatal  Yes ; and  then  Don  Ferdinand  saying  the  same,  and  giving  her  the  ring,  the  sacred  knot  was 
tied,  which  death  alone  can  dissolve.  Then  did  the  faithless  bridegroom  advance  to  embrace  his 
bride ; but  she,  laying  her  hand  upon  her  heart,  in  that  very  moment  swooned  away  in  her  mother’s 
arms.  Oh  ! what  confusion  seized  me  ! what  pangs,  what  torments  racked  me,  seeing  the  falsehood 
of  Lucinda’s  promises,  all  my  hopes  shipwrecked,  and  the  only  thing  that  made  me  wish  to  live  for 
ever  ravished  from  me  ! Confounded  and  despairing,  I looked  upon  myself  as  abandoned  by 
Heaven  to  the  cruelty  of  my  destiny  ; and  the  violence  of  my  griefs  stifling  my  sighs  and  denying  a 
passage  to  my  tears,  I felt  myself  transfixed  with  killing  anguish,  and  burning  with  jealous  rage  and 
vengeance.  In  the  meantime  the  whole  company  was  troubled  at  Lucinda’s  swooning  ; and  as  her 
mother  unclasped  her  gown  before  to  give  her  air,  a folded  paper  was  found  in  her  bosom,  which 
Don  Ferdinand  immediately  snatched  ; then,  stepping  a little  aside,  he  opened  it,  and  read  it  by  the 
light  of  one  of  the  tapers  ; and  as  soon  as  he  had  done,  he  as  it  were  let  himself  fall  upon  a chair, 
and  there  he  sate  with  his  hand  upon  the  side  of  his  face,  with  all  the  signs  of  melancholy  and 
discontent,  as  unmindful  of  his  bride  as  if  he  had  been  insensible  of  her  accident.  For  my  own 
part,  seeing  all  the  house  thus  in  an  uproar,  I resolved  to  leave  the  hated  place,  without  caring 
whether  I were  seen  or  not,  and  in  case  I were  seen,  I resolved  to  act  such  a desperate  part  in 
punishing  the  traitor  Ferdinand,  that  the  world  should  at  once  be  informed  of  his  perfidiousness 
and  the  severity  of  my  just  resentment ; but  my  destiny,  that  preserved  me  for  greater  woes  (if 
greater  can  be),  allowed  me  then  the  use  of  the  small  remainder  of  my  senses,  which  afterwards  quite 
forsook  me,  so  that  I left  the  house,  without  revenging  myself  on  my  enemies,  whom  I could  easily 
have  sacrificed  to  my  rage  in  this  unexpected  disorder  ; and  I chose  to  inflict  upon  myself,  for  my 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


197 


credulity,  the  punishment  which  their  infidelity  deserved.  I went  to  the  messenger’s  house  where  I 
had  left  my  mule,  and  without  so  much  as  bidding  him  adieu,  I mounted,  and  left  the  town  like 
another  Lot,  without  turning  to  give  it  a parting  look  ; and  as  I rode  along  the  fields,  darkness  and 
silence  round  me,  I vented  my  passion  in  execrations  against  the  treacherous  Ferdinand,  and  in  as 
loud  complaints  of  Lucinda’s  breach  of  vows  and  ingratitude.  I called  her  cruel,  ungrateful,  false, 
but  above  all,  covetous  and  sordid,  since  the  wealth  of  my  enemy  was  what  had  induced  her  to 
forego  her  vows  to  me.’  4 But  then,  again,’  said  I to  myself,  4 it  is  no  strange  thing  for  a young  lady, 
that  was  so  strictly  educated,  to  yield  herself  up  to  the  guidance  of  her  father  and  mother,  who  had 
provided  her  a husband  of  that  quality  and  fortune.  But  yet,  with  truth  and  justice  she  might  have 
pleaded  that  she  was  mine  before.’  In  fine,  I concluded  that  ambition  had  got  the  better  of  her  love, 
and  made  her  forget  her  promises  to  Cardenio.  Thus  abandoning  myself  to  these  tempestuous 
thoughts,  I rode  on  all  that  night,  and  about  break  of  day  I struck  into  one  of  the  passes  that  lead 
into  these  mountains,  where  I wandered  for  three  days  together,  without  keeping  any  road,  till  at 
last,  coming  to  a certain  valley  that  lies  somewhere  hereabouts,  I met  some  shepherds,  of  whom  I 
inquired  the  way  to  the  most  craggy  and  inaccessible  part  of  these  rocks.  They  directed  me,  and 
I made  all  the  haste  I could  to  get  thither,  resolved  to  linger  out  my  hated  life  far  from  the  converse 
of  false,  ungrateful  mankind.  When  I came  among  these  deserts,  my  mule,  through  weariness  and 
hunger,  or  rather  to  get  rid  of  so  useless  a load  as  I was,  fell  down  dead  ; and  I myself  was  so  weak, 
so  tired  and  dejected,  being  almost  famished,  and  withal  destitute  and  careless  of  relief,  that  I soon 
laid  myself  down,  or  rather  fainted  on  the  ground,  where  I lay  a considerable  while,  I do  not  know 
how  long,  extended  like  a corpse.  When  I came  to  myself  again,  I got  up,  and  could  not  perceive 
I had  any  appetite  to  eat : I found  some  goatherds  by  me,  who,  I suppose,  had  given  me  some 
sustenance,  though  I was  not  sensible  of  their  relief ; for  they  told  me  in  what  a wretched  condition 
they  found  me — staring,  and  talking  so  strangely,  that  they  judged  I had  quite  lost  my  senses.  I 
have  indeed  since  that  had  but  too  much  cause  to  think  that  my  reason  sometimes  leaves  me,  and 
that  I commit  those  extravagances  which  are  only  the  effects  of  senseless  rage  and  frenzy ; tearing 
my  clothes,  howling  through  these  deserts,  filling  the  air  with  curses  and  lamentations,  and  idly 
repeating  a thousand  times  Lucinda’s  name  ; all  my  wishes  at  that  time  being  to  breathe  out  my 
soul  with  the  dear  word  upon  my  lips  : and  when  I come  to  myself,  I am  commonly  so  weak  and  so 
weary,  that  I am  scarce  able  to  stir.  As  for  my  place  of  abode,  it  is  usually  some  hollow  cork-tree, 
into  which  I creep  at  night;  and  there  some  few  goatherds,  whose  cattle  browse  on  the  neighbouring 
mountains,  out  of  pity  and  Christian  charity,  sometimes  leave  some  victuals  for  the  support  of  my 
miserable  life  ; for,  even  when  my  reason  is  absent,  nature  performs  its  animal  functions,  and 
instinct  guides  me  to  satisfy  it.  Sometimes  these  good  people  meet  me  in  my  lucid  intervals,  and 
chide  me  for  taking  that  from  them  by  force  and  surprise  which  they  are  always  so  ready  to  give 
me  willingly  ; for  which  violence  I can  make  no  other  excuse  but  the  extremity  of  my  distraction. 
Thus  must  I drag  a miserable  being,  until  Heaven,  pitying  my  afflictions,  will  either  put  a period  to 
my  life  or  blot  out  of  my  memory  perjured  Lucinda’s  beauty  and  ingratitude,  and  Ferdinand’s 


198 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


perfidiousness.  Could  I but  be  so  happy  ere  1 die,  I might  then  be  able,  in  time,  to  compose  my 
frantic  thoughts  ; but  if  I must  despair  of  such  a favour,  I have  no  other  way  but  to  recommend  my 
soul  to  Heaven’s  mercy  ; for  I am  not  able  to  extricate  my  body  or  my  mind  out  of  that  misery 
into  which  I have  unhappily  plunged  myself. 

“ Thus,  gentlemen,  I have  given  you  a faithful  account  of  my  misfortunes.  Judge  now  whether 
it  was  possible  I should  relate  them  with  less  concern.  And  pray  do  not  lose  time  to  prescribe 
remedies  to  a patient  who  will  make  use  of  none.  I will,  and  can,  have  no  health  without  Lucinda  ; 
since  she  forsakes  me,  I must  die.  She  has  convinced  me,  by  her  infidelity,  that  she  desires  my 
ruin  ; and  by  my  unparalleled  sufferings  to  the  last,  I will  strive  to  convince  her  I deserved  a better 
fate.  Let  me  then  suffer  on,  and  may  I be  the  only  unhappy  creature  whom  despair  could  not 
relieve,  while  the  impossibility  of  receiving  comfort  brings  cure  to  so  many  other  wretches.” 

Here  Cardenio  made  an  end  of  his  mournful  story  ; and  just  as  the  curate  was  preparing  to 
give  him  his  best  advice  and  consolation,  he  was  prevented  by  a voice  that  saluted  his  ears,  and  in 
mournful  accents  pronounced  what  will  be  rehearsed  in  the  following  pages  of  this  narration. 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

THE  PLEASANT  NEW  ADVENTURE  THE  CURATE  AND  BARBER  MET  WITH  IN  SIERRA  MORENA,  OR  BLACK 

MOUNTAIN. 

MOST  fortunate  and  happy  was  the  age  that  ushered  into  the  world  that  most  daring 
knight,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ! for  from  his  generous  resolution  to  revive  and 
restore  the  ancient  order  of  knight-errantry,  that  was  not  only  wholly  neglected,  but  almost  lost  and 
abolished,  our  age,  barren  in  itself  of  pleasant  recreations,  derives  the  pleasure  it  reaps  from  his 
true  history,  and  the  various  tales  and  episodes  thereof,  in  some  respects  no  less  pleasing,  artful, 
and  authentic  than  the  history  itself.  We  told  you  that  as  the  curate  was  preparing  to  give 
Cardenio  some  seasonable  consolation,  he  was  prevented  by  a voice,  whose  doleful  complaints 
reached  his  ears. 

“Oh,  heavens!”  cried  the  unseen  mourner,  “is  it  possible  I have  at  last  found  out  a 
place  that  will  afford  a private  grave  to  this  miserable  body,  whose  load  I so  repine  to  bear  ? 
Yes,  if  the  silence  and  solitude  of  these  deserts  do  not  deceive  me,  here  I may  die  concealed  from 
human  eyes.  Ah  ! me  ; ah  ! wretched  creature  ! to  what  extremity  has  affliction  driven  me,  reduced 
to  think  these  hideous  woods  and  rocks  a kind  retreat!  It  is  true,  indeed,  I may  here  freely 


200 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


complain  to  Heaven,  and  beg  for  that  relief  which  I might  ask  in  vain  of  false  mankind  : for  it  is 
vain,  I find,  to  seek  below  either  counsel,  ease,  or  remedy.” 

The  curate  and  his  company,  who  heard  all  this  distinctly,  justly  conjectured  they  were  very 
near  the  person  who  thus  expressed  his  grief,  and  therefore  rose  to  find  him  out.  They  had  not 
gone  about  twenty  paces,  before  they  spied  a youth  in  a country  habit,  sitting  at  the  foot  of  a rock 
behind  an  ash-tree;  but  they  could  not  well  see  his  face,  being  bowed  almost  upon  his  knees,  as  he 
sat  washing  his  feet  in  a rivulet  that  glided  by.  They  approached  him  so  softly  that  he  did  not 
perceive  them  ; and,  as  he  was  gently  paddling  in  the  clear  water,  they  had  time  to  discern  that  his 
legs  were  as  white  as  alabaster,  and  so  taper,  so  curiously  proportioned,  and  so  fine,  that  nothing  of 
the  kind  could  appear  more  beautiful.  Our  observers  were  amazed  at  this  discovery,  rightly 
imagining  that  such  tender  feet  were  not  used  to  trudge  in  rugged  ways,  or  measure  the  steps  of 
oxen  at  the  plough,  the  common  employments  of  people  in  such  apparel ; and  therefore  the  curate, 
who  went  before  the  rest,  whose  curiosity  was  heightened  by  this  sight,  beckoned  to  them  to  step 
aside,  and  hide  themselves  behind  some  of  the  little  rocks  that  were  by  ; which  they  did,  and  from 
thence  making  a stricter  observation,  they  found  he  had  on  a grey  double-skirted  jerkin,  girt  tight 
about  his  body  with  a linen  towel.  He  wore  also  a pair  of  breeches,  and  gamashes  of  grey  cloth, 
and  a grey  huntsman’s  cap  on  his  head.  His  gamashes  were  now  pulled  up  to  the  middle  of  his 
leg,  which  really  seemed  to  be  of  snowy  alabaster.  Having  made  an  end  of  washing  his  beauteous 
feet,  he  immediately  wiped  them  with  a handkerchief,  which  he  pulled  out  from  under  his  cap  ; and 
with  that,  looking  up,  he  discovered  so  charming  a face,  so  accomplished  a beauty,  that  Cardenio 
could  not  forbear  saying  to  the  curate,  that  since  this  was  not  Lucinda,  it  was  certainly  no  human 
form,  but  an  angel.  And  then  the  youth,  taking  off  his  cap,  and  shaking  his  head,  an  incredible 
quantity  of  lovely  hair  flowed  down  upon  his  shoulders,  and  not  only  covered  them,  but  almost  all 
his  body  ; by  which  they  were  now  convinced,  that  what  they  at  first  took  to  be  a country  lad  was 
a young  woman,  and  one  of  the  most  beautiful  creatures  in  the  world.  Cardenio  was  not  less 
surprised  than  the  other  two,  and  once  more  declared  that  no  face  could  vie  with  hers  but 
Lucinda’s.  To  part  her  dishevelled  tresses,  she  only  used  her  slender  fingers,  and  at  the  same 
time  discovered  so  fine  a pair  of  arms,  and  hands  so  white  and  lovely,  that  our  three  admiring 
gazers  grew  more  impatient  to  know  who  she  was,  and  moved  forward  to  accost  her.  At  the 
noise  they  made,  the  pretty  creature  started  ; and  peeping  through  her  hair,  which  she  hastily 
removed  from  before  her  eyes  with  both  her  hands,  she  no  sooner  saw  three  men  coming  towards 
her,  but  in  a mighty  fright  she  snatched  up  a little  bundle  that  lay  by  her,  and  fled  as  fast  as  she 
could,  without  so  much  as  staying  to  put  on  her  shoes,  or  do  up  her  hair.  But,  alas!  scarce  had  she 
gone  six  steps,  when,  her  tender  feet  not  being  able  to  endure  the  rough  encounter  of  the  stones,  the 
poor  affrighted  fair  fell  on  the  hard  ground  ; so  that  those  from  whom  she  fled,  hastening  to  help 
her,  “Stay,  madam,”  cried  the  curate,  “whoever  you  be,  you  have  no  reason  to  fly;  we  have  no 
other  design  but  to  do  you  service.” 

With  that,  approaching  her,  he  took  her  by  the  hand,  and  perceiving  she  was  so  disordered 


“They  spied  a youth  in  a country  habit,  sitting  at  the  foot  of  a rock  behind  an  ash-tree. — ■/.  aco. 


26 


202 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


with  fear  and  confusion  that  she  could  not  answer  a word,  he  strove  to  compose  her  mind  with 
kind  expressions.  “ Be  not  afraid,  madam,”  continued  he  ; “ though  your  hair  has  betrayed  what 
your  disguise  concealed  from  us,  we  are  but  the  more  disposed  to  assist  you,  and  do  you  all  manner 
of  service.  Then  pray  tell  us  how  we  may  best  do  it.  I imagine  it  was  no  slight  occasion  that 
made  you  obscure  your  singular  beauty  under  so  unworthy  a disguise,  and  venture  into  this  desert, 
where  it  was  the  greatest  chance  in  the  world  that  ever  you  met  with  us.  However,  we  hope  it  is 
not  impossible  to  find  a remedy  for  your  misfortunes  ; since  there  are  none  which  reason  and  time 
will  not  at  last  surmount  : and  therefore,  madam,  if  you  have  not  absolutely  renounced  all  human 
comfort,  I beseech  you  tell  us  the  cause  of  your  affliction,  and  assure  yourself  we  do  not  ask 
this  out  of  mere  curiosity,  but  a real  desire  to  serve  you,  and  either  to  condole  or  assuage  your 
grief.” 

While  the  curate  endeavoured  thus  to  remove  the  trembling  fair  one’s  apprehension,  she  stood 
amazed,  without  speaking  a word,  staring  sometimes  upon  one,  sometimes  upon  another,  like  one 
scarce  well  awake,  or  like  an  ignorant  clown,  who  happens  to  see  some  strange  sight.  But  at  last 
the  curate,  having  given  her  time  to  recollect  herself,  and  persisting  in  his  earnest  and  civil 
entreaties,  she  fetched  a deep  sigh,  and  then  unclosing  her  lips,  broke  silence  in  this  manner  : — 
“ Since  this  desert  has  not  been  able  to  conceal  me,  and  my  hair  has  betrayed  me,  it  would  be 
needless  now  for  me  to  dissemble  with  you  ; and  since  you  desire  to  hear  the  story  of  my  misfor- 
tunes, I cannot  in  civility  deny  you,  after  all  the  obliging  offers  you  have  been  pleased  to  make  me  : 
but  yet,  gentlemen,  I am  much  afraid  what  I have  to  say  will  but  make  you  sad,  and  afford  you 
little  satisfaction  ; for  you  will  find  my  disasters  are  not  to  be  remedied.  There  is  one  thing  that 
troubles  me  yet  more  ; it  shocks  my  nature  to  think  I must  be  forced  to  reveal  to  you  some  secrets 
which  I had  a design  to  have  buried  in  my  grave  : but  yet,  considering  the  garb  and  the  place  you 
have  found  me  in,  I fancy  it  will  be  better  for  me  to  tell  you  all,  than  to  give  occasion  to  doubt  of 
my  past  conduct  and  my  present  designs,  by  an  affected  reservedness.”  The  disguised  lady  having 
made  this  answer,  with  a modest  blush  and  extraordinary  discretion,  the  curate  and  his  company, 
who  now  admired  her  the  more  for  her  sense,  renewed  their  kind  offers  and  pressing  solicitations  ; 
and  then  they  modestly  let  her  retire  a moment  to  some  distance  to  put  herself  in  decent  order, 
which  done,  she  returned,  and  being  all  seated  on  the  grass,  after  she  had  used  no  small  violence 
to  smother  her  tears,  she  thus  began  her  story  r — 

“ I was  born  in  a certain  town  of  Andalusia,  from  which  a duke  takes  his  title,  that  makes  him 
a grandee  of  Spain.  This  duke  has  two  sons- — the  eldest  heir  to  his  estate,  and,  as  it  may  be 
presumed,  of  his  virtues  ; the  youngest  heir  to  nothing  I know  of,  but  the  treachery  of  Vellido,  and 
the  deceitfulness  of  Galalon.  My  father,  who  is  one  of  his  vassals,  is  but  of  low  degree  ; but  so 
very  rich,  that  had  fortune  equalled  his  birth  to  his  estate,  he  could  have  wanted  nothing  more,  and 
I,  perhaps,  had  never  been  so  miserable  ; for  I verily  believe  my  not  being  of  noble  blood  is  the 
chief  occasion  of  my  ruin.  True  it  is  my  parents  are  not  so  meanly  born  as  to  have  any  cause  to  be 
ashamed  of  their  original,  nor  so  high  as  to  alter  the  opinion  I have  that  my  misfortune  proceeds 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


203 


from  their  lowness.  It  is  true  they  have  been  farmers  from  father  to  son,  yet  without  any  mixture 
or  stain  of  infamous  or  scandalous  blood.  They  are  old  rusty  Christians  (as  we  call  our  true 
primitive  Spaniards),  and  the  antiquity  of  their  family,  together  with  their  large  possessions,  and  the 
port  they  live  in,  raises  them  much  above  their  profession,  and  has  by  little  and  little  almost  universally 
gained  them  the  name  of  gentlemen,  setting  them,  in  a manner,  equal  to  many  such  in  the  world’s 
esteem.  As  I am  their  only  child,  they  ever  loved  me  with  all  the  tenderness  of  indulgent  parents;  and 
their  great  affection  made  them  esteem  themselves  happier  in  their  daughter,  than  in  the  peaceable 
enjoyment  of  their  large  estate.  Now,  as  it  was  my  good  fortune  to  be  possessed  of  their  love,  they 
were  pleased  to  trust  me  with  their  substance.  The  whole  house  and  estate  was  left  to  my 
management,  and  I took  such  care  not  to  abuse  the  trust  reposed  in  me,  that  I never  forfeited  their 
good  opinion  of  my  discretion.  The  time  I had  to  spare  from  the  care  of  the  family,  I commonly 
employed  in  the  usual  exercises  of  young  women,  sometimes  making  bone-lace,  or  at  my  needle, 
and  now  and  then  reading  some  good  book,  or  playing  on  the  harp  ; having  experienced  that  music 
was  very  proper  to  recreate  the  wearied  mind  : and  this  was  the  innocent  life  I led.  I have  not 
descended  to  these  particulars  out  of  vain  ostentation,  but  merely  that  when  I come  to  relate  my 
misfortunes,  you  may  observe  that  I do  not  owe  them  to  my  ill  conduct.  While  I thus  lived  the 
life  of  a nun,  unseen,  as  I thought,  by  anybody  but  our  own  family,  and  never  leaving  the  house  but 
to  go  to  church,  which  was  commonly  betimes  in  the  morning,  and  always  with  my  mother,  and  so 
close  hid  in  a veil  that  I could  scarce  find  my  way  ; notwithstanding  all  the  care  that  was  taken  to 
keep  me  from  being  seen,  it  was  unhappily  rumoured  abroad  that  I was  handsome,  and  to  my 
eternal  disquiet,  love  intruded  into  my  peaceful  retirement.  Don  Ferdinand,  second  son  to  the 

duke  I have  mentioned,  had  a sight  of  me ” Scarce  had  Cardenio  heard  Don  Ferdinand  named, 

but  he  changed  colour,  and  betrayed  such  a disorder  of  body  and  mind,  that  the  curate  and  the 
barber  were  afraid  he  would  have  fallen  into  one  of  those  frantic  fits  that  often  used  to  take  him  ; 
but  by  good  fortune  it  did  not  come  to  that,  and  he  only  set  himself  to  look  stedfastly  on  the  country 
maid,  presently  guessing  who  she  was  ; while  she  continued  her  story,  without  taking  any  notice  of 
the  alteration  of  his  countenance. 

“ No  sooner  had  he  seen  me,”  said  she,  “ but,  as  he  since  told  me,  he  felt  in  his  breast  that 
violent  passion  of  which  he  afterwards  gave  me  so  many  proofs.  But  not  to  tire  you  with  a needless 
relation  of  every  particular,  I will  pass  over  all  the  means  he  used  to  inform  me  of  his  love  : he 
purchased  the  good-will  of  all  our  servants  with  private  gifts  ; he  made  my  father  a thousand  kind 
offers  of  service  : every  day  seemed  a day  of  rejoicing  in  our  neighbourhood,  every  evening 
ushered  in  some  serenade,  and  the  continual  music  was  even  a disturbance  in  the  night.  He  got  a 
number  of  love-letters  transmitted  to  me,  I do  not  know  by  what  means,  every  one  full  of  the 
tenderest  expressions,  promises,  vows,  and  protestations.  But  all  this  assiduous  courtship  was 
so  far  from  inclining  my  heart  to  a kind  return,  that  it  rather  moved  my  indignation  ; insomuch,  that 
I looked  upon  Don  Ferdinand  as  my  greatest  enemy,  and  one  wholly  bent  on  my  ruin  : not  but 
that  I was  well  enough  pleased  with  his  gallantry,  and  took  a secret  delight  in  seeing  myself  thus 


He  got  a number  of  love-letters  transmitted  to  me,  every  one  full  of  the  tcndcrest  expressions.”—/.  203. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


20^ 


courted  by  a person  of  bis  quality.  Such  demonstrations  of  love  are  never  altogether  displeasing  to 
women,  and  the  most  disdainful,  in  spite  of  all  their  coyness,  reserve  a little  complaisance  in  their 
hearts  for  their  admirers.  But  the  disproportion  between  our  qualities  was  too  great  to  suffer  me 
to  entertain  any  reasonable  hopes,  and  his  gallantry  too  singular  not  to  offend  me.  Besides,  my 
father,  who  soon  made  a right  construction  of  Don  Ferdinand’s  pretensions,  with  his  prudent 
admonitions  concurred  with  the  sense  I ever  had  of  my  honour,  and  banished  from  my  mind  all 
favourable  thoughts  of  his  addresses.  However,  like  a kind  parent,  perceiving  I was  somewhat 
uneasy,  and  imagining  the  flattering  prospect  of  so  advantageous  a match  might  still  amuse  me,  he 
told  me  one  day  he  reposed  the  utmost  trust  in  my  virtue,  esteeming  it  the  strongest  obstacle  he 
could  oppose  to  Don  Ferdinand’s  dishonourable  designs  ; yet  if  I would  marry,  to  rid  me  at  once  of  his 
unjust  pursuit,  I should  have  liberty  to  make  my  own  choice  of  a suitable  match ; and  that  he  would 
do  for  me  whatever  could  be  expected  from  a loving  father.  I humbly  thanked  him  for  his  kindness, 
and  told  him  that  as  I had  never  yet  had  any  thoughts  of  marriage,  I would  try  to  rid  myself  of  Don 
Ferdinand  some  other  way.  Accordingly  I resolved  to  shun  him  with  so  much  precaution,  that  he 
should  never  have  the  opportunity  to  speak  to  me  : but  all  my  reservedness,  far  from  tiring  out  his 
passion,  strengthened  it  the  more.  In  short,  Don  Ferdinand,  either  hearing  or  suspecting  I was  to  be 
married,  thought  of  a contrivance  to  cross  a design  that  was  likely  to  cut  off  all  his  hopes.  One  night, 
therefore,  when  I was  in  my  chamber,  nobody  with  me  but  my  maid,  and  the  door  double-locked 
and  bolted,  that  I might  be  secured  against  the  attempts  of  Don  Ferdinand,  whom  I took  to  be  a 
man  who  would  stick  at  nothing  to  compass  his  designs,  unexpectedly  I saw  him  just  before  me  ; 
which  amazing  sight  so  surprised  me,  that  I was  struck  dumb,  and  fainted  away  with  fear.  So  I 
had  not  power  to  call  for  help,  nor  do  I believe  he  would  have  given  me  time  to  have  done  it,  had  I 
attempted  it ; for  he  presently  ran  to  me,  and  taking  me  in  his  arms,  while  I was  sinking  with  the 
fright,  he  spoke  to  me  in  such  endearing  terms,  and  with  so  much  address,  and  pretended  tenderness 
and  sincerity,  that  I did  not  dare  to  cry  out  when  I came  to  myself.  His  sighs,  and  yet  more  his 
tears,  seemed  to  me  undeniable  proofs  of  his  vowed  integrity  ; and  I being  but  young,  bred  up  in 
perpetual  retirement  from  all  society  but  my  virtuous  parents,  and  inexperienced  in  those  affairs 
in  which  even  the  most  knowing  are  apt  to  be  mistaken,  my  reluctancy  abated  by  degrees,  and  I 
began  to  have  some  sense  of  compassion,  yet  none  but  what  was  consistent  with  my  honour. 
However,  when  I was  pretty  well  recovered  from  my  first  fright,  my  former  resolution  returned  ; 
and  then,  with  more  courage  than  I thought  I should  have  had,  ‘ My  lord,’  said  I,  ‘if  at  the  same 
time  that  you  offer  me  your  love,  and  give  me  such  strange  demonstrations  of  it,  you  would  also 
offer  me  poison,  and  leave  to  take  my  choice,  I would  soon  resolve-  upon  which  to  accept,  and 
convince  you  by  my  death  that  my  honour  is  dearer  to  me  than  my  life.  To  be  plain,  I can  have 
no  good  opinion  of  a presumption  that  endangers  my  reputation  ; and  unless  you  leave  me  this 
moment,  I will  so  effectually  make  you  know  how  much  you  are  mistaken  in  me,  that  if  you  have 
but  the  least  sense  of  honour  left,  you  will  prevent  the  driving  me  to  that  extremity  as  long  as  you 
live.  I was  born  your  vassal,  but  not  your  slave;  nor  does  the  greatness  of  your  birth  privilege  you 
to  injure  your  inferiors,  or  exact  from  me  more  than  the  duties  wlpch  all  vassals  pay;  that  excepted. 


206 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I do  not  esteem  myself  less  in  my  low  degree  than  you  have  reason  to  value  yourself  in  your  high 
rank.  Do  not  then  think  to  awe  or  dazzle  me  with  your  grandeur,  or  fright  or  force  me  into  a base 
compliance  ; I am  not  to  be  tempted  with  titles,  pomp,  and  equipage  ; nor  weak  enough  to  be  moved 
with  vain  sighs  and  false  tears.  In  short,  my  will  is  wholly  at  my  father’s  disposal,  and  I will  not 
entertain  any  man  as  a lover,  but  by  his  appointment.  Therefore,  my  lord,  as  you  would  have  me 
believe  you  so  sincerely  love  me,  give  over  your  vain  and  injurious  pursuit ; suffer  me  peaceably  to 
enjoy  the  benefits  of  life  in  the  free  possession  of  my  honour,  the  loss  of  which  for  ever  embitters  all 
life's  sweets ; and  since  you  cannot  be  my  husband,  do  not  expect  from  me  that  affection  which  I 
cannot  pay  to  any  other.’  ‘ What  do  you  mean,  charming  Dorothea  ? ’ cried  the  perfidious  lord. 

‘ Cannot  1 be  yours  by  the  sacred  title  of  husband  ? Who  can  hinder  me,  if  you’ll  but  consent  to 
bless  me  on  those  terms  ? Too  happy  if  I can  have  no  other  obstacle  to  surmount,  I am  yours 
this  moment,  beautiful  Dorothea  : see,  I give  you  here  my  hand  to  be  yours  alone  for  ever  : and 
let  all-seeing  Heaven,  and  this  holy  image  here  on  your  oratory,  witness  the  solemn  truth.’  ” 

Cardenio,  hearing  her  call  herself  Dorothea,  was  now  fully  satisfied  she  was  the  person  whom 
he  took  her  to  be  ; however,  he  would  not  interrupt  her  story,  being  impatient  to  hear  the  end 
of  it  ; only  addressing  himself  to  her,  “Is  then  your  name  Dorothea,  madam  ? ” cried  he.  “ I have 
heard  of  a lady  of  that  name,  whose  misfortunes  have  a great  resemblance  with  yours.  But  proceed, 
I beseech  you,  and  when  you  have  done,  I may  perhaps  surprise  you  with  an  account  of  things  that 
have  some  affinity  with  those  you  relate.” 

With  that  Dorothea  made  a stop  to  study  Cardenio’s  face,  and  his  wretched  attire,  and  'then 
earnestly  desired  him,  if  he  knew  anything  that  concerned  her,  to  let  her  know  it  presently  ; telling 
him  that  all  the  happiness  she  had  left  was  only  the  courage  to  bear  with  resignation  all  the 
disasters  that  might  befall  her,  well  assured  that  no  new  one  could  make  her  more  unfortunate  than 
she  was  already.  “ Truly,  madam,”  replied  Cardenio,  “ I would  tell  you  all  I know,  were  I sure 
my  conjectures  were  true  ; but  so  far  as  I may  judge  by  what  I have  heard  hitherto,  I do  not  think 
it  material  to  tell  it  you  yet,  and  I shall  find  a more  proper  time  to  do  it.”  Then  Dorothea  resuming 
her  discourse  : “Don  Ferdinand,”  said  she,  “repeated  his  vows  of  marriage  in  the  most  serious 
manner  ; and  giving  me  his  hand,  plighted  me  his  faith  in  the  most  binding  words  and  sacred  oaths. 
But  before  I would  let  him  engage  himself  thus,  I advised  him  to  have  a care  how  he  suffered  an 
unruly  passion  to  get  the  ascendant  over  his  reason,  to  the  endangering  of  his  future  happiness. 

‘ My  lord,’  said  I,  ‘let  not  a few  transitory  and  imaginary  charms,  which  could  never  excuse  such  an 
excess  of  love,  hurry  you  to  your  ruin.  Spare  your  noble  father  the  shame  and  displeasure  of  seeing 
you  married  to  a person  so  much  below  your  birth  ; and  do  not  rashly  do  a thing  of  which  you  may 
repent,  and  that  may  make  my  life  uncomfortable.’  I added  several  other  reasons  to  dissuade 
him  from  that  hasty  match,  but  they  were  all  unregarded.  Don  Ferdinand,  deaf  to  everything, 
engaged  and  bound  himself  like  an  inconsiderate  lover,  who  sacrifices  all  things  to  his  passion,  or 
rather  like  a cheat  who  does  not  value  a breach  of  vows.  When  I saw  him  so  obstinate,  I began 
to  consider  what  I had  to  do.  ‘ I am  not  the  first,’  thought  I to  myself,  ‘ whom  marriage  has 
raised  to  unhoped-for  greatness,  and  whose  beauty  alone  has  supplied  her  want  of  birth  and  merit. 


**  I am  yours  this  moment,  beautiful  Dorothea  : see,  I give  you  here  my  hand  to  be  yours.” — p 206. 


2C)S 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Thousands  besides  Don  Ferdinand  have  married  merely  for  love,  without  any  regard  to  the 
inequality  of  wealth  and  birth.’  The  opportunity  was  fair  and  tempting ; and  as  Fortune  is  not 
always  favourable,  1 thought  it  an  imprudent  thing  to  let  it  slip.  Thought  I to  myself,  • While  she 
kindly  offers  me  a husband  who  assures  me  of  an  inviolable  affection,  why  should  I,  by  an 
unreasonable  denial,  make  myself  an  enemy  of  such  a friend  ?’  And  then  there  was  one  thing 
more  ; 1 apprehended  it  would  be  dangerous  to  drive  him  to  despair  by  an  ill-timed  refusal.  All 
these  reasons,  which  in  a moment  offered  themselves  in  my  mind,  shook  my  former  resolves.  I 
called  my  maid  to  be  witness  to  Don  Ferdinand's  vows  and  sacred  engagements,  which  he  reiterated 
to  me,  and  confirmed  with  new  oaths  and  solemn  promises;  he  called  again  on  Heaven,  and  on 
many  particular  saints,  to  witness  his  sincerity,  wishing  a thousand  curses  might  fall  on  him,  in  case 
he  ever  violated  his  word  ; and,  as  a further  pledge,  he  pulled  off  a ring  of  great  value  from  lus 
finger,  and  put  it  upon  mine.  In  time,  he  went  away,  and  my  maid,  who,  as  she  confessed  it  to  me, 
let'him  in  privately,  took  care  to  let  him  out  into  the  street,  while  I remained  so  strangely 
concerned  at  the  thoughts  of  all  these  passages,  that  I cannot  well  tell  whether  I was  sorry  or 
pleased.  I was  in  a manner  quite  distracted.  I had  told  Don  Ferdinand  before  he  went,  that 
seeing  I was  now  his  own,  he  might  come  again  to  see  me,  till  he  found  it  convenient  to  do  me  the 
honour  of  owning  me  publicly  for  his  wife  ; but  he  came  to  me  only  the  next  day,  and  from  that 
time  I never  could  see  him  more,  neither  at  church  nor  in  the  street,  though  for  a whole  month 
together  I tired  myself  endeavouring  to  find  him  out.  Being  credibly  informed  he  was  still  near  us, 
and  went  a-hunting  almost  every  day,  I leave  you  to  think  with  what  uneasiness  I passed  those 
tedious  hours,  when  I perceived  his  neglect,  and  had  reason  to  suspect  his  breach  of  faith.  So 
unexpected  a slight,  which  I looked  upon  as  the  most  sensible  affliction  that  could  befall  me,  had 
like  to  have  quite  overwhelmed  me.  I exclaimed  against  Don  Ferdinand,  and  exhausted  my  sighs 
and  tears  without  assuaging  my  sorrow.  What  was  worse,  I found  myself  obliged  to  set  a guard 
upon  my  very  looks,  for  fear  my  father  and  mother  should  inquire  into  the  cause  of  my  discontent. 
But  at  last  I perceived  it  was  in  vain  to  dissemble,  and  I gave  a loose  to  my  resentments;  for  I 
could  no  longer  hold,  when  I heard  that  Don  Ferdinand  was  married  in  a neighbouring  town  to  a 
young  lady  of  rich  and  noble  parentage,  and  extremely  handsome,  whose  name  is  Lucinda. 

Cardenio,  hearing  Lucinda  named,  felt  his  former  disorder,  but  by  good  fortune  it  was  not  so 
violent  as  it  used  to  be;  and  he  only  shrugged  up  his  shoulders,  bit  his  lips,  knit  his  brows,  and  a 
little  while  after  let  fall  a shower  of  tears,  which  did  not  hinder  Dorothea  from  going  on. 

« This  news,”  continued  she,  “ instead  of  freezing  up  my  blood  with  grief  and  astonishment, 
filled  me  with  burning  rage.  Despair  took  possession  of  my  soul,  and  in  the  transports  of  my  fury 
I was  ready  to  run  raving  through  the  streets,  and  publish  Don  Ferdinand’s  disloyalty.  1 do  not 
know  whether  a remainder  of  reason  stopped  these  violent  motions,  but  I found  myself  mightily 
eased  as  soon  as  I had  pitched  upon  a design  that  presently  came  into  my  head.  I discovered  the 
cause  of  my  grief  to  a young  country  fellow  that  served  my  father,  and  desired  him  to  lend  me  a 
suit  of  man’s  apparel,  and  to  go  along  with  me  to  the  town  where  I heard  Don  Ferdinand  was. 
The  fellow  used  the  best  arguments  he  had  to  hinder  me  from  so  strange  an  undertaking;  but 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


209 


finding  I was  inflexible  in  my  resolution,  he  assured  me  he  was  ready  to  serve  me.  Thereupon  1 
put  on  this  habit  which  you  see,  and  taking  with  me  some  of  my  own  clothes,  together  with  some 
gold  and  jewels,  not  knowing  but  I might  have  occasion  for  them,  1 set  out  that  very  night,  attended 
with  that  servant,  and  many  anxious  thoughts,  without  so  much  as  acquainting  my  maid  with  my 
design.  To  tell  you  the  truth,  I did  not  well  know  myself  what  I went  about ; for  as  there  could 
be  no  remedy,  Don  Ferdinand  being  actually  married  to  another,  what  could  I hope  to  get  by  seeing 
him,  unless  it  were  the  wretched  satisfaction  of  upbraiding  him  with  his  infidelity?  In  two  days 
and  a half  we  got  to  the  town,  where  the  first  thing  I did  was  to  inquire  where  Lucinda’s  father 
lived.  That  single  question  produced  a great  deal  more  than  I desired  to  hear ; for  the  first  man  I 
addressed  myself  to  showed  me  the  house,  and  informed  me  of  all  that  had  happened  at  Lucinda’s 
marriage,  which  it  seems  was  grown  so  public,  that  it  was  the  talk  of  the  whole  town.  He  told  me 
how  Lucinda  had  swooned  away  as  soon  as  she  had  answered  the  priest,  that  she  was  contented  to 
be  Don  Ferdinand’s  wife  ; and  how,  after  he  had  approached  to  open  her  dress,  to  give  her  more 
room  to  breathe,  he  found  a letter  under  her  own  hand,  wherein  she  declared  she  could  not  be  Don 
Ferdinand’s  wife,  because  she  was  already  contracted  to  a considerable  gentleman  of  the  same  town, 
whose  name  was  Cardenio  ; and  that  she  had  only  consented  to  that  marriage  in  obedience  to  her 
father.  He  also  told  me,  that  it  appeared  by  the  letter,  and  a dagger  which  was  found  about  her, 
that  she  designed  to  have  killed  herself  after  the  ceremony  was  over  : and  that  Don  Ferdinand, 
enraged  to  see  himself  thus  deluded,  would  have  killed  her  himself  with  that  very  dagger,  had  he 
not  been  prevented  by  those  that  were  present.  He  added,  it  was  reported  that  upon  this  Don 
Ferdinand  immediately  left  the  town  ; and  that  Lucinda  did  not  come  to  herself  till  next  day,  and 
then  she  told  her  parents  that  she  was  really  Cardenio’s  wife,  and  that  he  and  she  were  contracted 
before  she  had  seen  Don  Ferdinand.  I heard  also  that  this  Cardenio  was  present  at  the  wedding  ; 
and  that  as  soon  as  he  saw  her  married,  which  was  a thing  he  never  could  have  believed,  he  left  the 
town  in  despair,  leaving  a letter  behind  him,  full  of  complaints  of  Lucinda’s  breach  of  faith,  and  to 
inform  his  friends  of  his  resolution  to  go  to  some  place  where  they  should  never  hear  of  him  more. 
This  was  all  the  discourse  of  the  town  when  we  came  thither,  and  soon  after  we  heard  that  Lucinda 
also  was  missing,  and  that  her  father  and  mother  were  grieving  almost  to  distraction,  not  being  able 
to  learn  what  was  become  of  her.  For  my  part,  this  news  revived  my  hopes,  having  reason  to  be 
pleased  to  find  Don  Ferdinand  unmarried.  I flattered  myself  that  Heaven  had  perhaps  prevented 
this  second  marriage,  to  make  him  sensible  of  violating  the  first,  and  to  touch  his  conscience,  in  order 
to  his  acquitting  himself  in  his  duty  like  a Christian  and  a man  of  honour.  So  I strove  to  beguile  my 
cares  with  an  imaginary  prospect  of  a far-distant  change  of  fortune,  amusing  myself  with  vain  hopes 
that  I might  not  sink  under  the  load  of  affliction,  but  prolong  life;  though  this  was  only  a lengthening 
of  my  sorrows,  since  I have  now  but  the  more  reason  to  wish  to  be  eased  of  the  trouble  of  living. 
But  while  I stayed  in  that  town,  I heard  a crier  publicly  describe  my  person,  my  clothes,  and  my 
age,  in  the  open  street,  promising  a considerable  reward  to  any  that  could  bring  tidings  of  Dorothea. 
I also  heard  that  it  was  rumoured  I was  run  away  from  my  father’s  house  with  the  servant  who 

attended  me;  and  that  report  touched  my  soul  as  much  as  Don  Ferdinands  perndiousness  ; for  thus 

27 


the  little  strength  1 had  I pushed  bln,  down  a precipice,  where 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


21  I 


I saw  my  reputation  wholly  lost,  and  that,  too,  for  a subject  so  base  and  so  unworthy  of  my  nobler 
thoughts.  Thereupon  I made  all  the  haste  I could  to  get  out  of  the  town,  and  with  more  nimbleness 
than  could  be  expected  from  my  surprise  and  weariness,  I ran  into  the  thickest  part  of  the  desert  to 
secure  myself.  But  as  it  is  commonly  said  that  one  evil  follows  upon  another,  and  that  the  end  of 
one  disaster  is  the  beginning  of  a greater,  so  it  befell  me : my  good  servant,  until  then  faithful  and 
trusty,  seeing  me  in  this  desert  place,  and  incited  by  his  own  baseness  rather  than  by  any  beauty  of 
mine,  resolved  to  lay  hold  of  the  opportunity  this  solitude  seemed  to  afford  him ; and,  with  little 
shame,  and  less  fear  of  God  or  respect  to  his  mistress,  began  to  make  love  to  me.  Finding  that  I 
answered  him  with  such  language  as  the  impudence  of  his  attempt  deserved,  he  laid  aside  entreaties, 
by  which  he  first  hoped  to  succeed,  and  began  to  use  force.  But  just  Heaven,  that  seldom  or  never 
fails  to  regard  and  favour  righteous  intentions,  favoured  mine  in  such  a manner  that,  with  the 
little  strength  I had,  and  without  much  difficulty,  I pushed  him  down  a precipice,  where  I left  him, 
I know  not  whether  alive  or  dead.  The  next  day  I met  a countryman,  who  took  me  to  his  house 
amidst  these  mountains,  and  employed  me  ever  since  in  quality  of  his  shepherd.  There  I have 
continued  some  months,  making  it  my  business  to  be  as  much  as  possible  in  the  fields,  the  better  to 
conceal  my  sex.  But  notwithstanding  all  my  care  and  industry,  he  at  last  discovered  I was  a 
woman,  which  made  him  presume  to  importune  me  with  offers;  so  that  I left  his  house,  and  chose 
to  seek  a sanctuary  among  these  woods  and  rocks,  there  with  sighs  and  tears  to  beseech  Heaven 
to  pity  me,  and  to  direct  and  relieve  me  in  this  forlorn  condition  ; or  at  least  to  put  an  end  to  my 
miserable  life,  and  bury  in  this  desert  the  very  memory  of  an  unhappy  creature,  who,  more  through 
ill  fortune  than  ill  intent,  has  given  the  idle  world  occasion  to  be  too  busy  with  her  fame.” 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  BEAUTIFUL  DOROTHEA’S  DISCRETION,  WITH  OTHER  PLEASANT  PASSAGES. 

;‘r"  1 ^ H IS,  gentlemen,”  continued  Dorothea,  “is  the  true  story  of  my  tragical  adventure;  and  now 
be  you  judges  whether  I had  reason  to  make  the  complaint  you  overheard,  and  whether  so 
unfortunate  and  hopeless  a creature  be  in  a condition  to  admit  of  comfort.  I have  only  one  favour 
to  beg  of  you  : be  pleased  to  direct  me  to  some  place  where  I may  pass  the  rest  of  my  life  secure 
from  the  search  and  inquiry  of  my  parents  ; not  but  their  former  affection  is  a sufficient  warrant  for 
my  kind  reception,  could  the  sense  I have  of  the  thoughts  they  must  have  of  my  past  conduct 
permit  me  to  return  to  them ; but  when  I think  they  must  believe  me  guilty,  and  can  now  have 
nothing  but  my  bare  word  to  assure  them  of  my  innocence,  I can  never  resolve  to  stand  their 
sight.” 

Here  Dorothea  stopped,  and  the  blushes  that  overspread  her  cheeks  were  certain  signs  of  the 
discomposure  of  her  thoughts,  and  the  unfeigned  modesty  of  her  soul.  Those  who  had  heard  her 
story  were  deeply  moved  with  compassion  for  her  hard  fate,  and  the  curate  would  not  delay  any 
longer  to  give  her  some  charitable  comfort  and  advice.  But  scarce  had  he  begun  to  speak,  when 
Cardenio,  addressing  himself  to  her,  interrupted  him.  “ How,  madam!”  said  he,  taking  her  by  the 
hand,  “ are  you  then  the  beautiful  Dorothea,  the  only  daughter  of  the  rich  Cleonardo  ? ” 

Dorothea  was  strangely  surprised  to  hear  her  father  named,  and  by  one  in  so  tattered  a garb. 
“ And  pray  who  are  you,  friend,”  said  she  to  him,  “ that  know  so  well  my  father’s  name  ? for  I 
think  I did  not  mention  it  once  throughout  the  whole  narration  of  my  afflictions.” 

“ I am  Cardenio,”  replied  the  other— “ that  unfortunate  person  whom  Lucinda,  as  you  told  us, 
declared  to  be  her  husband.  I am  that  miserable  Cardenio,  whom  the  perfidiousness  of  the  man 
who  has  reduced  you  to  this  deplorable  condition  has  also  brought  to  this  wretched  state,  to  rags,  to 


J 


Alas!"  answered  Sancho,  “I  found  him  in  his  shirt,  lean,  pale,  and  almost  starved,  sighing  for  his  Lady  Dulcinea.” — p.  214. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


**  i 


2 14 


nakedness,  to  despair,  nay,  to  madness  itself,  and  all  hardships  and  want  of  human  comforts  ; only 
enjoying  the  privilege  of  reason  by  short  intervals,  to  feel  and  bemoan  my  miseries  the  more.  I 
am  the  man,  fair  Dorothea,  who  was  the  unhappy  eye-witness  of  Don  Ferdinand’s  unjust  nuptials, 
and  who  heard  my  Lucinda  give  her  consent  to  be  his  wife  ; that  heartless  wretch,  who,  unable  to 
bear  so  strange  a disappointment,  lost  in  amazement  and  trouble,  flung  out  of  the  house,  without 
staying  to  know  what  would  follow  her  trance,  and  what  the  paper  that  was  taken  out  of  her  bosom 
would  produce.  I abandoned  myself  to  despair,  and  having  left  a letter  with  a person  whom  I 
charged  to  deliver  it  into  Lucinda’s  own  hands,  I hastened  to  hide  mvself  from  the  world  in  this 
desert,  resolved  to  end  there  a life  which  from  that  moment  I had  abhorred  as  my  greatest  enemy. 
But  fortune  has  preserved  me,  I see,  that  I may  venture  it  upon  a better  cause  ; for  from  what  you 
have  told  us  now,  which  I have  no  reason  to  doubt,  I am  emboldened  to  hope  that  Providence  may 
yet  reserve  us  both  to  a better  fate  than  we  durst  have  expected.  Heaven  will  restore  you  Don 
Ferdinand,  who  cannot  be  Lucinda’s,  and  to  me  Lucinda,  who  cannot  be  Don  Ferdinand’s.  For 
my  part,  though  my  interests  were  not  linked  with  yours,  as  they  are,  I have  so  deep  a sense  of 
your  misfortunes,  that  I would  expose  myself  to  any  dangers  to  see  you  righted  by  Don  Fer- 
dinand ; and  here,  on  the  word  of  a gentleman  and  a Christian,  I vow  and  promise  not  to  forsake 
you  till  he  has  done  you  justice,  and  to  oblige  him  to  do  it  at  the  hazard  of  my  life,  should  reason 
and  generosity  prove  ineffectual  to  force  him  to  be  blest  with  you.” 

Dorothea,  ravished  with  joy,  and  not  knowing  how  to  express  a due  sense  of  Cardenio’s 
obliging  offers,  would  have  thrown  herself  at  his  feet,  had  he  not  civilly  hindered  it.  At  the  same 
time  the  curate,  discreetly  speaking  for  them  both,  highly  applauded  Cardenio  for  his  generous 
resolution,  and  comforted  Dorothea.  He  also  very  heartily  invited  them  to  his  house,  where  they 
might  furnish  themselves  with  necessaries,  and  consult  together  how  to  find  out  Don  Ferdinand, 
and  bring  Dorothea  home  to  her  father,  which  kind  offer  they  thankfully  accepted.  Then  the 
barber,  who  had  been  silent  all  this  while,  put  in  for  a share,  and  handsomely  assured  them  he 
would  be  very  ready  to  do  them  all  the  service  that  might  lie  in  his  power.  After  these  civilities, 
he  acquainted  them  with  the  design  that  had  brought  the  curate  and  him  to  that  place,  and  gave 
them  an  account  of  Don  Quixote’s  strange  kind  of  madness,  and  of  their  staying  there  for  his 
squire.  Cardenio,  hearing  him  mentioned,  remembered  something  of  the  scuffle  he  had  with  them 
both,  but  only  as  if  it  had  been  a dream ; so  that  though  he  told  the  company  of  it,  he  could  not 
let  them  know  the  occasion.  By  this  time  they  heard  somebody  call,  and  by  the  voice  they  knew 
it  was  Sancho  Panza,  who,  not  finding  them  where  he  had  left  them,  tore  his  very  lungs  with 
hallooing.  With  that,  they  all  went  to  meet  him ; which  done,  they  asked  him  what  was  become 
of  Don  Quixote. 

“ Alas ! ” answered  Sancho,  “ I left  him  yonder,  in  an  ill  plight.  I found  him  in  his  shirt,  lean, 
pale,  and  almost  starved,  sighing  and  whining  for  his  Lady  Dulcinea.  I told  him  how  that  she 
would  have  him  come  to  her  presently  to  Toboso,  where  she  looked  for  him  out  of  hand  ; yet  for 
all  this  he  would  not  budge  a foot,  but  even  told  me  he  was  resolved  he  would  never  set  eyes  on 
her  sweet  face  again,  till  he  had  done  some  feats  that  might  make  him  worthy  of  her  goodness.  So 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


2I5 


that,”  added  Sancho,  “if  he  leads  this  life  any  longer,  I fear  me  my  poor  master  is  never  like  to  be 
an  emperor,  as  he  is  bound  in  honour  to  be,  nay,  not  so  much  as  an  archbishop,  which  is  the  least 
thing  he  can  come  off  with  ; therefore,  good  sir,  see  and  get  him  away  by  all  means,  I beseech 

y> 

you. 

The  curate  bid  him  be  of  good  cheer,  for  they  would  make  him  leave  that  place  whether  he 
would  or  not ; and  then  turning  to  Cardenio  and  Dorothea,  he  informed  them  of  the  design  which 
he  and  the  barber  had  laid,  in  order  to  his  cure,  or  at  least  to  get  him  home  to  his  house. 

Dorothea,  whose  mind  was  much  eased  with  the  prospect  of  better  fortune,  kindly  undertook 
to  act  the  distressed  lady  herself,  which  she  said  she  thought  would  become  her  better  than  the 
barber,  having  a dress  very  proper  for  that  purpose  ; besides,  she  had  read  many  books  of  chivalry, 
and  knew  how  the  distressed  ladies  used  to  express  themselves  when  they  came  to  beg  some  knight- 
errant’s  assistance. 

“ This  is  obliging,  madam,”  said  the  curate,  “ and  we  want  nothing  more  ; so  let  us  to  work  as 
fast  as  we  can  ; we  may  now  hope  to  succeed,  since  you  thus  happily  facilitate  the  design.” 

Presently  Dorothea  took  out  of  her  bundle  a petticoat  of  very  rich  stuff,  and  a gown  of  very 
fine  green  silk  ; also  a necklace,  and  several  other  jewels  out  of  a box  ; and  with  these  in  an  instant 
she -so  adorned  herself,  and  appeared  so  beautiful  and  glorious,  that  they  all  stood  in  admiration 
that  Don  Ferdinand  should  be  so  injudicious  as  to  slight  so  accomplished  a beauty.  But  he  that 
admired  her  most  was  Sancho  Panza  ; for  he  thought  he  had  never  set  eyes  on  so  fine  a creature, 
and  perhaps  he  thought  right  : which  made  him  earnestly  ask  the  curate  who  that  fine  dame  was, 
and  what  wind  had  blown  her  thither  among  the  woods  and  rocks. 

“ Who  that  fine  lady,  Sancho  ? ” answered  the  curate  ; “ she  is  the  only  heiress  in  a direct  line 
to  the  vast  kingdom  of  Micomicon.  Moved  by  the  fame  of  your  master’s  great  exploits,  that  spreads 
itself  over  all  Guinea,  she  comes  to  seek  him  out,  and  beg  a boon  of  him  ; that  is,  to  redress  a 
wrong  which  a wicked  giant  has  done  her.” 

“Why,  that’s  well,”  quoth  Sancho;  “a  happy  seeking,  and  a happy  finding.  Now,  if  my 
master  be  but  so  lucky  as  to  right  that  wrong,  by  killing  that  giant  you  tell  me  of,  I am  a made 
man.  Yes,  he  will  kill  him,  that  he  will,  if  he  can  but  come  at  him,  an  he  be  not  a hobgoblin  ; for 
my  master  can  do  no  good  with  hobgoblins.  But,  Mr.  Curate,  an  it  please  you,  I have  a favour  to 
ask  of  you.  I beseech  you  put  my  master  out  of  conceit  with  all  archbishoprics,  for  that  is  what  I 
dread  ; and  therefore,  to  rid  me  of  my  fears,  put  it  into  his  head  to  clap  up  a match  with  this  same 
princess  ; for  by  that  means  it  will  be  past  his  power  to  make  himself  archbishop,  and  he  will  come 
to  be  emperor,  and  I a great  man,  as  sure  as  a gun.  I have  thought  well  of  the  matter,  and  I find 
it  is  not  at  all  fitting  he  should  be  an  archbishop  for  my  good  ; for  what  should  I get  by  it  ? I am 
not  fit  for  church  preferment,  I am  a married  man  ; and  now  for  me  to  go  troubling  my  head  with 
getting  a licence  to  hold  church  livings,  it  would  be  an  endless  business  ; therefore,  it  will  be  better 
for  him  to  marry  this  same  princess,  whose  name  I cannot  tell,  for  I never  heard  it.” 

“They  call  her  the  Princess  Micomicona,”  said  the  curate;  “for  her  kingdom  being  called 
Micomicon,  it  is  a clear  case  she  must  be  called  so.” 


2l6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Like  enough,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ for  I have  known  several  men  in  my  time  go  by  the  names 
of  the  places  where  they  were  born,  as  Pedro  de  Alcala,  Juan  de  Ubeda,  Diego  de  Valladolid  ; and 
mayhap  the  like  is  done  in  Guinea,  and  the  queens  go  by  the  name  of  their  kingdoms.” 

“ It  is  well  observed,”  replied  the  curate.  “ As  for  the  match,  I’ll  promote  it  to  the  utmost  of 
my  power.” 

Sancho  was  heartily  pleased  with  this  promise;  and,  on  the  other  side,  the  curate  was  amazed  to 
find  the  poor  fellow  so  strangely  infected  with  his  master’s  mad  notions,  as  to  rely  on  his  becoming 
an  emperor.  By  this  time  Dorothea  being  mounted  on  the  curate’s  mule,  and  the  barber  having 
clapped  on  his  ox-tail  beard,  nothing  remained  but  to  order  Sancho  to  show  them  the  way,  and  to 
renew  their  admonitions  to  him,  lest  he  should  seem  to  know  them,  and  to  spoil  the  plot,  which,  if  he 
did,  they  told  him  it  would  be  the  ruin  of  all  his  hopes,  and  his  master’s  empire.  As  for  Cardenio, 
he  did  not  think  fit  to  go  with  them,  having  no  business  there  ; besides,  he  could  not  tell  but  that  Don 
Quixote  might  remember  their  late  fray.  The  curate,  likewise,  not  thinking  his  presence  necessary, 
resolved  to  stay  to  keep  Cardenio  company  ; so,  after  he  had  once  more  given  Dorothea  her  cue,  she 
and  the  barber  went  before  with  Sancho,  while  the  two  others  followed  on  foot  at  a distance. 

Thus  they  went  on  for  about  three  quarters  of  a league,  and  then  among  the  rocks  they  spied 
Don  Quixote,  who  had  by  this  time  put  on  his  clothes,  though  not  his  armour.  Immediately 
Dorothea,  understanding  he  was  the  person,  whipped  her  palfrey,  and  when  she  drew  near  Don 
Quixote,  her  squire  alighted  and  took  her  from  her  saddle.  When  she  was  upon  her  feet,  she 
gracefully  advanced  towards  the  knight,  and,  with  her  squire,  falling  on  her  knees  before  him,  in 
spite  of  his  endeavours  to  hinder  her — 

“ Thrice  valorous  and  invincible  knight,”  said  she,  “never  will  I rise  from  this  place,  till  your 
generosity  has  granted  me  a boon,  which  shall  redound  to  your  honour,  and  the  relief  of  the  most 
disconsolate  and  most  injured  damsel  that  the  sun  ever  saw  : and  indeed  if  your  valour  and  the 
strength  of  your  formidable  arm  be  answerable  to  the  extent  of  your  immortal  renown,  you  are 
bound  by  the  laws  of  honour,  and  the  knighthood  which  you  profess,  to  succour  a distressed 
princess,  who,  led  by  the  resounding  fame  of  your  marvellous  and  redoubted  feats  of  arms,  comes 
from  the  remotest  regions,  to  implore  your  protection.” 

“ I cannot,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ make  you  any  answer,  most  beautiful  lady,  nor  will  I hear  a 
word  more,  unless  you  vouchsafe  to  rise.” 

“ Pardon  me,  noble  knight,”  replied  the  petitioning  damsel ; “ my  knees  shall  first  be  rooted 
here,  unless  you  will  courteously  condescend  to  grant  me  the  boon  which  I humbly  request.” 

“ I grant  it  then,  lady,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ provided  it  be  nothing  to  the  disservice  of  my 
king,  my  country,  and  that  beauty  who  keeps  the  key  of  my  heart  and  liberty.” 

“ It  shall  not  tend  to  the  prejudice  or  detriment  of  any  of  these,”  cried  the  lady. 

With  that  Sancho,  closing  up  to  his  master,  and  whispering  him  in  the  ear,  “ Grant  it,  sir,” 
quoth  he,  “ grant  it,  I tell  ye  ; it  is  but  a trifle  next  to  nothing,  only  to  kill  a great  looby  of  a giant  -; 
and  she  that  asks  this  is  the  high  and  mighty  Princess  Micomicona,  queen  of  the  huge  kingdom  of 
Micomicon  in  Ethiopia.” 


They  went  on  for  about  three  quarters  of  a league,  and  then  among  the  rocks  they  spied  Don  Quixote,  who  had  by  this  time  put  on  his 

clothes,  though  not  his  armour.”—^.  216. 


mu 


28 


2 l8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Let  her  De  what  she  will,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ I will  discharge  my  duty,  and  obey  the 
dictates  of  my  conscience,  according  to  the  rules  of  my  profession.”  With  that,  turning  to  the 
damsel,  “ Rise,  lady,  I beseech  you,”  cried  he  ; “ I grant  you  the  boon  which  your  beauty  demands.” 

“ Sir,”  said  the  lady,  “ the  boon  I have  to  beg  of  your  magnanimous  valour  is,  that  you  will  be 
pleased  to  go  with  me  instantly  whither  I shall  conduct  you,  and  promise  not  to  engage  in  any  other 
adventure,  till  you  have  revenged  me  on  a traitor  who  usurps  my  kingdom.” 

“ I grant  you  all  this,  lady,”  quoth  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  therefore,  from  this  moment,  shake  off 
all  desponding  thoughts  that  sit  heavy  upon  your  mind,  and  study  to  revive  your  drooping  hopes  ; 
for,  by  the  assistance  of  Heaven,  and  my  strenuous  arm,  you  shall  see  yourself  restored  to  your 
kingdom,  and  seated  on  the  throne  of  your  ancestors,  in  spite  of  all  the  traitors  that  dare  oppose 
your  right.  Let  us  then  hasten  our  performance ; delay  always  breeds  danger ; and  to  protract  a 
great  design  is  often  to  ruin  it.” 

The  thankful  princess,  to  speak  her  grateful  sense  of  his  generosity,  strove  to  kiss  the  knight’s 
hand  ; however,  he  who  was  in  everything  the  most  gallant  and  courteous  of  all  knights,  would  by 
no  means  admit  of  such  submission  ; but  having  gently  raised  her  up,  he  embraced  her  with  an 
awful  grace  and  civility,  and  then  called  to  Sancho  for  his  arms.  Sancho  went  immediately,  and 
having  fetched  them  from  a tree,  where  they  hung  like  trophies,  armed  his  master  in  a moment. 
And  now  the  champion  being  completely  accoutred,  “ Come  on,”  said  he,  “ let  us  go  and  vindicate 
the  rights  of  this  dispossessed  princess.”  The  barber  was  all  this  while  upon  his  knees,  and  had 
enough  to  do  to  keep  himself  from  laughing,  and  his  beard  from  falling,  which,  if  it  had  dropped 
off,  as  it  threatened,  would  have  betrayed  his  face  and  their  whole  plot  at  once.  But  being  relieved 
by  Don  Quixote’s  haste  to  put  on  his  armour,  he  rose  up,  and  taking  the  princess  by  the  hand,  they 
both  together  set  her  upon  her  mule.  Then  the  knight  mounted  his  Rozinante,  and  the  barber  got 
on  his  beast.  Only  poor  Sancho  was  forced  to  foot  it,  which  made  him  fetch  many  heavy  sighs  for 
the  loss  of  his  dear  Dapple.  However,  he  bore  his  crosses  patiently,  seeing  his  master  in  so  fair  a 
way  of  being  next  door  to  an  emperor ; for  he  did  not  question  but  he  would  marry  that  princess, 
and  so  be  at  least  King  of  Micomicom  But  yet  it  grieved  him,  to  think  his  master’s  dominions 
were  to  be  in  the  land  of  the  negroes,  and  that,  consequently,  the  people,  over  whom  he  was  to  be 
governor,  were  all  to  be  black.  But  he  presently  bethought  himself  of  a good  remedy  for  that. 
“ What  care  I,”  quoth  he,  “ though  they  be  blacks  ? best  of  all  ; it  is  but  loading  a ship  with  them, 
and  having  them  into  Spain,  where  I shall  find  chapmen  enow  to  take  them  off  my  hands,  and  pay 
me  ready  money  for  them  ; and  so  I’ll  raise  a good  round  sum,  and  buy  me  a title  or  an  office  to 
live  upon  frank  and  easy  all  the  days  of  my  life.  Hang  him  that  has  no  shifts,  say  I ; it  is  a sorry 
goose  that  will  not  baste  itself.  Why,  what  if  I am  not  so  book-learned  as  other  folks,  sure  I have 
a head-piece  good  enough  to  know  how  to  sell  thirty  or  ten  thousand  slaves  in  the  turn  of  a hand. 
Let  them  even  go  higgledy-piggledy,  little  and  great.  Let  them  be  never  so  black,  I will  turn  them 
into  white  and  yellow  boys ; I think  I know  how  to  lick  my  own  fingers.” 

Big  with  these  imaginations,  Sancho  trudged  along,  so  pleased  and  light-hearted  that  he  forgot 
his  pain  of  travelling  a-foot.  Cardenio  and  the  curate  had  beheld  the  pleasant  scene  through  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


219 


bushes,  and  were  at  a loss  what  they  should  do  to  join  companies.  But  the  curate,  who  had  a 
contriving  head,  at  last  bethought  himself  of  an  expedient ; and  pulling  out  a pair  of  scissors,  which 
he  used  to  carry  in  his  pocket,  he  snipped  off  Cardenio’s  beard  in  a trice ; and  having  pulled  off  his 
black  cloak  and  a sad-coloured  riding-coat  which  he  had  on,  he  equipped  Cardenio  with  them,  while 
he  himself  remained  in  his  doublet  and  breeches  ; in  which  new  garb  Cardenio  was  so  strangely 
altered  that  he  would  not  have  known  himself  in  a looking-glass.  This  done,  they  made  to 
the  highway,  and  there  stayed  till  Don  Quixote  and  his  company  were  got  clear  of  the  rocks  and 
bad  ways,  which  did  not  permit  horsemen  to  go  so  fast  as  those  on  foot.  When  they  came  near,  the 
curate  looked  very  earnestly  upon  Don  Quixote,  as  one  that  was  in  a study  whether  he  might  not 
know  him ; and  then,  like  one  that  had  made  a discovery,  he  ran  towards  the  knight  with  open 
arms,  crying  out,  “Mirror  of  chivalry,  my  noble  countryman  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ! the  cream 
and  flower  of  gentility ! the  shelter  and  relief  of  the  afflicted,  and  quintessence  of  knight-errantry  ! 
how  overjoyed  am  I to  have  found  you  ! ” At  the  same  time  he  embraced  his  left  leg. 

Don  Quixote,  admiring  what  adorer  of  his  heroic  worth  this  should  be,  looked  on  him 
earnestly  ; and  at  last  calling  him  to  mind,  would  have  alighted  to  have  paid  him  his  respects,  not  a 
little  amazed  to  meet  him  there.  But  the  curate  hindered  him.  “ Reverend  sir,”  cried  the  knight, 
“ I beseech  you  let  me  not  be  so  rude  as  to  sit  on  horseback,  while  a person  of  your  worth  and 
character  is  on  foot.” 

“ Sir,”  replied  the  curate,  “ you  shall  by  no  means  alight.  Let  your  excellency  be  pleased  to 
keep  your  saddle,  since,  thus  mounted,  you  every  day  achieve  the  most  stupendous  feats  of  arms  and 
adventures  that  were  ever  seen  in  our  age.  It  will  be  honour  enough  for  an  unworthy  priest  like  me 
to  get  up  behind  some  of  your  company ; and  I will  esteem  it  as  great  a happiness  as  to  be  mounted 
on  Pegasus,  or  the  Zebra,  or  the  fleet  mare  of  the  famous  Moor  Muzaraque,  who  to  this  hour  lies 
enchanted  in  the  dreary  cavern  of  Zulema,  not  far  distant  from  the  grand  city  of  Compluto.” 

“Truly,  good  sir,  I did  not  think  of  this,”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “but  I suppose  my  lady 
the  princess  will  be  so  kind  as  to  command  her  squire  to  lend  you  his  saddle,  and  to  ride  behind 
himself,  if  his  mule  be  used  to  carry  double.” 

“ I believe  it  will,”  cried  the  princess  ; “ and  my  squire,  I suppose,  will  not  stay  for  my  com- 
mands to  offer  his  saddle,  for  he  is  too  courteous  and  well-bred  to  suffer  an  ecclesiastical  person  to 
go  a-foot  when  we  may  help  him  to  a mule.” 

“ Most  certainly,”  cried  the  barber ; and  with  that  dismounting,  he  offered  the  curate  his  saddle, 
which  was  accepted  without  much  entreaty.  By  ill-fortune  the  mule  was  a hired  beast,  and  conse- 
quently vicious  ; so,  as  the  barber  was  getting  up  behind  the  curate,  the  resty  jade  gave  two  or 
three  jerks  with  her  hinder  legs,  that,  had  they  met  with  Master  Nicholas’s  skull  or  ribs,  he  would 
have  bequeathed  his  rambling  after  Don  Quixote  to  others.  However,  he  flung  himself  nimbly 
off,  and  was  more  afraid  than  hurt ; but  yet,  as  he  fell,  his  beard  dropped  off,  and  being  presently 
sensible  of  that  accident,  he  could  not  think  of  any  better  shift  than  to  clap  both  of  his  hands  before 
his  cheeks,  and  cry  out  that  he  had  broke  his  jawbone.  Don  Quixote  was  amazed  to  see  such  an 
overgrown  bush  of  beard  lie  on  the  ground  without  jaws,  and  bloodless.  “ Bless  me!”  cried  he, 


PISA  U 


ft  iff  If ^1 

mfj  IjlJ  kn 

IwL  fj!9 

Now.  lady,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ let  me  entreat  your  greatness 


to  tell  me  which  way  we  must  go, 


to  do  you  service.” — ; p ■ 221. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


221 


“ what  an  amazing  miracle  is  this  ! here  is  a beard  as  cleverly  taken  off  by  accident,  as  if  a barber 
had  mowed  it.” 

The  curate,  perceiving  the  danger  they  were  in  of  being  discovered,  hastily  caught  up  the 
beard,  and,  running  to  the  barber,  who  lay  all  the  while  roaring  and  complaining,  he  pulled  his  head 
close  to  his  own  breast,  and  then  muttering  certain  words,  which  he  said  were  a charm  appropriated 
to  the  fastening  on  of  fallen  beards,  he  fixed  it  on  again  so  handsomely,  that  the  squire  was  presently 
as  bearded  and  as  well  as  ever  he  was  before  ; which  raised  Don  Quixote’s  admiration,  and 
made  him  engage  the  curate  to  teach  him  the  charm  at  his  leisure,  not  doubting  but  its  virtue 
extended  further  than  to  the  fastening  on  of  beards,  since  it  was  impossible  that  such  a one  could  be 
torn  off  without  fetching  away  flesh  and  all  ; and  consequently  such  a sudden  cure  might  be  bene- 
ficial to  him  upon  occasion.  And  now,  everything  being  set  to  rights,  they  agreed  that  the  curate 
should  ride  first  by  himself,  and  then  the  other  two  by  turns,  relieving  one  another,  sometimes 
riding,  sometimes  walking,  till  they  came  to  their  inn,  which  was  about  two  leagues  off.  So  Don 
Quixote,  the  princess,  and  the  curate  being  mounted,  and  Cardenio,  the  barber,  and  Sancho  ready 
to  move  forwards  on  foot,  the  knight,  addressing  himself  to  the  distressed  damsel,  “Now,  lady,”  said 
he,  “ let  me  entreat  your  greatness  to  tell  me  which  way  we  must  go,  to  do  you  service." 

Before  she  could  answer,  the  curate  said,  “ Pray,  madam,  is  it  not  towards  the  kingdom  of 
Micomicon  ? I am  very  much  mistaken  if  that  be  not  the  part  of  the  world  whither  you  desire  to 
go.”  The  lady  having  got  her  cue,  presently  understood  the  curate,  and  answered  that  he  was  in 
the  right.  “Then,”  said  the  curate,  “your  way  lies  directly  through  the  village  where  I live,  whence 
we  have  a straight  road  to  Carthagena,  where  you  may  take  shipping  ; and,  if  you  have  a fair 
wind  and  good  weather,  you  may,  in  something  less  than  nine  years,  reach  the  vast  Lake  Meona — 
I mean,  the  Palus  Maeotis — which  lies  somewhat  more  than  a hundred  days’  journey  from  your 
kingdom.” 

“ Surely,  sir,”  replied  the  lady,  “ you  are  under  a mistake  ; for  it  is  not  quite  two  years  since  I 
left  the  place ; and  besides,  we  have  had  very  little  fair  weather  all  the  while  ; and  yet  I am  already 
got  hither,  and  have  so  far  succeeded  in  my  designs,  as  to  have  obtained  the  sight  of  the  renowned 
Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  the  fame  of  whose  achievements  reached  my  ears  as  soon  as  I landed 
in  Spain,  and  moved  me  to  find  him  out,  to  throw  myself  under  his  protection,  and  commit  the 
justice  of  my  cause  to  his  invincible  valour.” 

“No  more,  madam,  I beseech  you,”  cried  Don  Quixote ; “spare  me  the  trouble  of  hearing 
myself  praised,  for  I mortally  hate  whatever  may  look  like  adulation;  and  though  your  compliments 
may  deserve  a better  name,  my  ears  are  too  modest  to  be  pleased  with  any  such  discourse : it  is  my 
study  to  deserve  and  to  avoid  applause.  All  I will  venture  to  say  is,  that,  whether  I have  any 
valour  or  no,  I am  wholly  at  your  service,  even  at  the  expense  of  the  last  drop  of  my  blood  ; and 
therefore,  waiving  all  these  matters  till  a fit  opportunity,  I would  gladly  know  of  this  reverend 
clergyman  what  brought  him  hither,  unattended  by  any  of  his  servants,  alone,  and  so  slenderly 
clothed  ; for  I must  confess  I am  not  a little  surprised  to  meet  him  in  this  condition.” 

“To  tell  you  the  reason  in  a few  words,”  answered  the  curate,  “ you  must  know  that  Master 


222 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Nicholas,  our  friend  and  barber,  went  with  me  to  Seville,  to  receive  some  money  which  a relation  of 
mine  sent  me  from  the  Indies,  where  he  has  been  settled  these  many  years.  Neither  was  it  a small 
sum,  for  it  was  no  less  than  seventy  thousand  pieces  of  eight,  and  all  of  due  weight,  which  is  no 
common  thing,  you  may  well  judge;  but  upon  the  road  hereabouts  we  met  four  highwaymen,  that 
robbed  us  of  all  v/e  had,  even  to  our  very  beards,  so  that  the  poor  barber  was  forced  to  get  him  a 
chin-periwig.  And  for  that  young  gentleman  whom  you  see  there,”  continued  he,  pointing  to 
Cardenio,  “ after  they  had  stripped  him  to  his  shirt,  they  transfigured  him  as  you  see.  Now,  every- 
body hereabouts  says  that  those  who  robbed  us  were  certainly  a pack  of  rogues  condemned  to  the 
galleys,  who,  as  they  were  going  to  punishment,  were  rescued  by  a single  man,  not  far  from  this 
place,  and  that  with  so  much  courage,  that  in  spite  of  the  king’s  officer  and  his  guards,  he  alone  set 
them  all  at  liberty.  Certainly  this  man  was  either  mad  or  as  great  a rogue  as  any  of  them  ; for 
would  any  one  that  had  a grain  of  sense  or  honesty  have  let  loose  a company  of  wolves  among 
sheep,  foxes  among  innocent  poultry,  and  wasps  among  the  honey-pots  ? He  has  hindered  public 
justice  from  taking  its  course,  broke  his  allegiance  to  his  lawful  sovereign,  disabled  the  strength  of 
his  galleys,  rebelled  against  him,  opposed  his  officers  in  contempt  of  the  law,  and  alarmed  the 
holy  brotherhood,  that  had  lain  quiet  so  long  ; nay,  what  is  yet  worse,  he  has  endangered  his  life 
upon  earth,  and  his  salvation  hereafter.” 

Sancho  had  given  the  curate  an  account  of  the  adventure  of  the  galley-slaves,  and  this  made 
him  lay  it  on  thick  in  the  relation,  to  try  how  Don  Quixote  would  bear  it.  The  knight  changed 
colour  at  every  word,  not  daring  to  confess  he  was  the  pious  knight-errant  who  had  delivered  those 
worthy  gentlemen  out  of  bondage. 

“ These,”  said  the  curate,  by  way  of  conclusion,  “ were  the  men  that  reduced  us  to  this  con- 
dition ; and  may  Heaven  in  mercy  forgive  him  who  freed  them  from  the  punishment  they  so  wel 
deserved  ! ” 


Towards  the  kingdom  of  Micomicon.’’— /.  221 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

THE  PLEASANT  STRATAGEMS  USED  TO  FREE  THE  ENAMOURED  KNIGHT  FROM  THE  RIGOROUS  PENANCE 

WHICH  HE  HAD  UNDERTAKEN. 

SCARCE  had  the  curate  made  an  end,  when  Sancho,  addressing  himself  to  him,  “ Faith  and 
truth,”  quoth  he,  “ Master  Curate,  he  that  did  that  rare  job  was  my  master  his  own  self,  and 
that  not  for  want  of  fair  warning  ; for  I bid  him  have  a care  what  he  did,  and  told  him,  over  and 
over,  it  would  be  a grievous  sin  to  put  such  a gang  of  wicked  wretches  out  of  durance,  and  that  they 
all  went  to  the  galleys  for  their  roguery.” 

« You  buffle-headed  clown,”  cried  Don  Quixote ; “ is  it  for  a knight-errant,  when  he  meets  with 
people  laden  with  chains,  and  under  oppression,  to  examine  whether  they  are  in  those  circumstances 
for  their  crimes,  or  only  through  misfortune  ? We  are  only  to  relieve  the  afflicted,  to  look  on  their 
distress,  and  not  on  their  crimes.  I met  a company  of  poor  wretches,  who  went  along  sorrowful, 
dejected,  and  linked  together  like  the  beads  of  a rosary ; thereupon  I did  what  my  conscience  and 
my  profession  obliged  me  to  do.  And  what  has  any  man  to  say  to  this  ? If  any  one  dares  say  other- 
wise, saving  this  reverend  clergyman’s  presence  and  the  holy  character  he  bears,  I say,  he  knows 
little  of  knight-errantry,  and  lies  like  a base-born  villain  ; and  this  I will  make  him  know  more 
effectually,  with  the  convincing  edge  of  my  sword  ! ’ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


225 


This  said  with  a grim  look,  he  fixed  himself  in  his  stirrups,  and  pulled  his  helm  over  his  brows; 
for  the  basin,  which  he  took  to  be  Mambrino’s  helmet,  hung  at  his  saddle-bow,  in  order  to  have  the 
damage  repaired  which  it  had  received  from  the  galley-slaves.  Thereupon  Dorothea,  by  this  time 
well  acquainted  with  his  temper,  seeing  him  in  such  a passion,  and  that  everybody,  except  Sancho 
Panza,  made  a jest  of  him,  resolved,  with  her  native  sprightliness  and  address,  to  carry  on  the 
humour. 

“ I beseech  you,  sir,”  cried  she,  “ remember  the  promise  you  have  made  me,  and  that  you 
cannot  engage  in  any  adventure  whatsoever  till  you  have  performed  that  we  are  going  about. 
Therefore,  pray  assuage  your  anger  ; for  had  Master  Curate  known  the  galley-slaves  were  rescued 
by  your  invincible  arm,  I am  sure  he  would  rather  have  stitched  up  his  lips,  or  bit  off  his  tongue, 
than  have  spoken  a word  that  should  make  him  incur  your  displeasure.” 

“ Nay,  I assure  you,”  cried  the  curate,  “ I would  sooner  have  twitched  off  one  of  my  mustachoes 
into  the  bargain.” 

“ I am  satisfied,  madam,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ and  for  your  sake  the  flame  of  my  just  indigna- 
tion is  quenched  ; nor  will  I be  induced  to  engage  in  any  quarrel,  till  I have  fulfilled  my  promise  to 
your  highness.  Only,  in  recompense  of  my  good  intentions,  I beg  you  will  give  us  the  story  of 
your  misfortunes,  if  this  will  not  be  too  great  a trouble  to  you  ; and  let  me  know  who,  and  what, 
and  how  many  are  the  persons  of  whom  I must  have  due  and  full  satisfaction  on  your  behalf.” 

“ I am  very  willing  to  do  it,”  replied  Dorothea ; “ but  yet  I fear  a story  like  mine,  consisting 
wholly  of  afflictions  and  disasters,  will  prove  but  a tedious  entertainment.” 

“ Never  fear  that,  madam,”  cried  Don  Quixote. 

“ Since,  then,  it  must  be  so,”  said  Dorothea,  be  pleased  to  lend  me  your  attention.” 

With  that  Cardenio  and  the  barber  gathered  up  to  her,  to  hear  what  kind  of  story  she  had 
provided  so  soon  ; Sancho  also  hung  his  ears  upon  her  side-saddle,  being  no  less  deceived  in  her 
than  his  master  ; and  the  lady  having  seated  herself  well  on  her  mule,  after  coughing  once  or  twice, 
and  other  preparations,  very  gracefully  began  her  story. 

“ First,  gentlemen,”  said  she,  “you  must  know  my  name  is  ’’—here  she  stopped  short,  and  could 
not  call  to  mind  the  name  the  curate  had  given  her  ; whereupon,  finding  her  at  a non-plus,  he  made 
haste  to  help  her  out. 

“ It  is  not  at  all  strange,”  said  he,  “ madam,  that  you  should  be  so  discomposed  by  your 
disasters,  as  to  stumble  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  account  you  are  going  to  give  of  them  ; extreme 
affliction  often  distracts  the  mind  to  that  degree,  and  so  deprives  us  of  memory,  that  sometimes  we 
for  a while  can  scarce  think  on  our  very  names  : no  wonder,  then,  that  the  Princess  Micomicona, 
lawful  heiress  to  the  vast  kingdom  of  Micomicon,  disordered  with  so  many  misfortunes,  and  per- 
plexed with  so  many  various  thoughts  for  the  recovery  of  her  crown,  should  have  her  imagination 
and  memory  so  encumbered ; but  I hope  you  will  now  recollect  yourself,  and  be  able  to  proceed.” 

“ I hope  so,  too,”  said  the  lady,  “ and  I will  try  to  go  through  with  my  story,  without  any 
further  hesitation.  Know  then,  gentlemen,  that  the  king,  my  father,  who  was  called  Tinacrio  the 

29 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

s3ce  bavin"  "real  skill  in  the  magic  art,  understood,  by  his  profound  knowledge  in  that  science  that 
Oueen  Xar^lla,  my  mother,  should  die  before  him,  that  he  himself  should  not  survive  her  long, 
"d  I should  be  left  an  orphan.  But  he  often  said  that  this  did  not  so  much  troub  e hurt  as  the 
foreskin  he  had,  by  his  speculations,  of  my  being  threatened  with  great  "-fortunes,  winch  won  e 
occasioned  by  a certain  giant,  lord  of  a great  island  near  the  confines  of  my  kingdom  ; Ins  name 
Pandafilando,  surnamed  of  the  Gloomy  Sight;  because,  though  Ins  eye-nails  are  seated  in  t e,r  ue 
place  yet  he  affects  to  squint  and  look  askew,  on  purpose  to  fright  those  on  whom  he  stares.  > 
father,  1 say,  knew  that  this  giant,  hearing  of  his  death,  would  one  day  invade  my  kmgdom  with  a 
powerful  army,  and  drive  me  out  of  my  territories,  without  leaving  me  so  much  as  the  least  village 
fo,  a retreat  ihough  he  knew  withal  that  I might  avoid  that  extremity,  tf  I would  but  consent  to 
marry  him;  but  as  he  found  out  by  his  art,  he  had  reason  to  think  I never  would  incline  to  such  a 
patch  And,  indeed,  I never  had  any  thoughts  of  marrying  this  giant,  nor  really  any  other  giant 
n the  world,  how  immeasurably  great  and  mighty  soever  he  were.  My  father  therefore,  charge 
me  patiently  to  bear  my  misfortunes,  and  abandon  my  kingdom  to  Pandafilando  for  a time,  without 
Offering  to  keep  him  out  by  force  of  arms,  since  this  would  oe  the  best  means  to  prevent  my  own 
death  and  the  ruin  of  my  subjects,  considering  the  impossibility  of  withstanding  the  immense  force  of 
the  riant  But  withal,  he  ordered  me  to  direct  my  course  towards  Spain,  where  I should  be  sure 
meet  with  a powerful  champion,  in  the  person  of  a knight-errant,  whose  fame  should  at  that  time  be 
spread  over  all  the  kingdom  ; and  his  name,  my  father  said,  should  be,  if  I torget  not,  Don  Azote, 

" D.°l?ft°p,ease  you,  forsooth,”  quoth  Sancho,  “you  would  say  Don  Quixote,  otherwise  called 
the  Kni°'ht  of  the  Woful  Figure.” 

' ..  You  are  right,”  answered  Dorothea  ; “ and  my  father  also  described  him.  and  said  he  should 

be  a tall,  thin-faced  man,  and  that  on  his  right  side,  under  the  left  shoulder,  or  somewhere  there- 
abouts. he  should  have  a tawny  mole,  overgrown  with  a tuft  of  hair,  not  much  unlike  that 

!'0rS  WkhThat  Don  Quixote  calling  for  his  squire  to  come  to  him,  “ Here,”  said  he,  “Sancho, 
help  me  off  with  my  clothes,  for  I am  resolved  to  see  whether  1 be  the  knight  of  whom  the  necro- 

mantic  king  has  prophesied. 

- Pray,  sir,  why  would  you  pull  off  your  clothes  ? ” cried  Dorothea. 

To  see  whether  I have  such  a mole  about  me  as  your  father  mentioned,  replied  the  knight. 

» Your  worship  need  not  strip  to  know  that,"  quoth  Sancho  ; « for,  to  my  knowledge,  you  have 
just  such  a mark  as  my  lady  says,  on  the  small  of  your  back,  which  betokens  you  to  be  a strong- 

bodmdmam  ^ ^ Dorothea;  .,friends  may  believe  one  another  without  such  a strict 

examination  ; and  whether  it  be  on  the  shoulder  or  on  the  back-bone,  it  is  not  very  material  a 
Short  I find  my  father  aimed  right  in  all  his  predictions,  and  so  do  I in  recommending  myse  > 
Don  Quixote,  whose  stature  and  appearance  so  well  agree  with  my  fathers  description,  and  whose 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


227 

renown  is  so  far  spread,  not  only  in  Spain,  but  over  all  La  Mancha,  that  I had  no  sooner  landed  at 
Ossuna,  but  the  fame  of  his  prowess  reached  my  ears ; so  that  I was  satisfied  in  myself  he  was  the 
person  in  quest  of  whom  I came.” 

“ But  pray,  madam,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ how  did  you  do  to  land  at  Ossuna,  since  it  is  no 
sea-port  town  ? ” 

“ Doubtless,  sir,”  said  the  curate,  before  Dorothea  could  answer  for  herself,  “ the  princess  would 
say,  that  after  she  landed  at  Malaga,  the  first  place  where  she  heard  of  your  feats  of  arms  was 
Ossuna.” 

“ That  is  what  I would  have  said,”  replied  Dorothea. 

“ It  is  easily  understood,”  said  the  curate;  “ then  pray  let  your  majesty  be  pleased  to  go  on 
with  your  story.” 

“I  have  nothing  more  to  add,”  answered  Dorothea,  “but  that  Fortune  has  at  last  so  far 
favoured  me,  as  to  make  me  find  the  noble  Don  Quixote,  by  whose  valour  I look  upon  myself  as 
already  restored  to  the  throne  of  my  ancestors  ; since  he  has  so  courteously  and  magnanimously 
vouchsafed  to  grant  me  the  boon  I begged,  to  go  with  me  wheresoever  I should  guide  him.  For 
all  I have  to  do  is  to  show  him  this  Pandafilando  of  the  Gloomy  Sight,  that  he  may  slay  him,  and 
restore  that  to  me  of  which  he  has  so  unjustly  deprived  me.  For  all  this  will  certainly  be  done  with 
the  greatest  ease  in  the  world,  since  it  was  foretold  by  Tinacrio  the  Sage,  my  good  and  royal  father, 
who  has  also  left  a prediction  written  in  either  Chaldean  or  Greek  characters  (for  I cannot  read 
them),  which  denotes  that  after  the  knight  of  the  prophecy  has  cut  off  the  giant’s  head,  and  restored 
me  to  the  possession  of  my  kingdom,  if  he  should  ask  me  to  marry  him,  I should  by  no  means  refuse 
him,  but  instantly  put  him  in  possession  of  my  person  and  kingdom.” 

“ Well,  friend  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  hearing  this,  and  turning  to  the  squire,  “ what 
thinkest  thou  now  ? Dost  thou  not  hear  how  matters  go  ? Did  not  I tell  thee  as  much  before  ? 
See  now,  whether  we  have  not  a kingdom  which  we  may  command,  and  a queen  whom  we  may 
espouse.” 

“ Ah ! marry  you  have,”  replied  Sancho  ; and  to  show  his  joy,  he  cut  a couple  of  capers  in  the 
air,  and  turning  to  Dorothea,  laid  hold  on  her  mule  by  the  bridle,  and  flinging  himself  down  on  his 
knees,  begged  she  would  be  graciously  pleased  to  let  him  kiss  her  hand,  in  token  of  his  owning  her 
for  his  sovereign  lady. 

There  was  none  of  the  beholders  but  was  ready  for  laughter,  having  a sight  of  the  master's 
madness,  and  the  servant’s  simplicity.  In  short,  Dorothea  was  obliged  to  comply  with  his  entreaties, 
and  promised  to  make  him  a grandee,  when  Fortune  should  favour  her  with  the  recovery  of  her  lost 
kingdom.  Whereupon  Sancho  gave  her  his  thanks  in  such  a manner  as  obliged  the  company  to  a 
fresh  laughter. 

Then  going  on  with  her  relation,  “ Gentlemen,”  said  she,  “ this  is  my  history ; and  among  all 
my  misfortunes,  this  only  has  escaped  a recital,  that  not  one  of  the  numerous  attendants  I brought 
from  my  kingdom  has  survived  the  ruins  of  my  fortune,  but  this  good  squire  with  the  long  beard  : 


22S 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


the  rest  ended  their  days  in  a great  storm,  which  dashed  our  ship  to  pieces  in  the  very  sight  of  the 
harbour  ; and  he  and  I had  been  sharers  in  their  destiny,  had  we  not  laid  hold  of  two  planks,  by 
which  assistance  we  were  driven  to  land,  in  a manner  altogether  miraculous,  and  agreeable  to  the 
whole  series  of  my  life,  which  seems,  indeed,  but  one  continued  miracle.  And  if  in  any  part  of  my 
relation  I have  been  tedious,  and  not  so  exact  as  I should  have  been,  you  must  impute  it  to  what 
Master  Curate  observed  to  you,  in  the  beginning  of  my  story,  that  continual  troubles  oppress  the 

senses  and  weaken  the  memory. 

..  Those  pains  and  afflictions,  be  they  ever  so  intense  and  difficult,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ shall 
never  deter  me,  most  virtuous  and  high-born  lady,  from  adventuring  for  your  service,  and  enduring 
whatever  I shall  suffer  in  it : and  therefore  I again  ratify  the  assurances  I have  given  you,  and 
swear  that  I will  bear  you  company,  though  to  the  end  of  the  world,  in  search  of  this  implacable 
enemy  of  yours,  till  I shall  find  him  ; whose  insulting  head,  by  the  help  of  Heaven,  and  my  own 
invincible  arm,  I am  resolved  to  cut  off,  with  the  edge  of  this  (I  will  not  say  good)  sword  ; a curse 
on  Gines  de  Passamonte,  who  took  away  my  own ! ” This  he  spoke  murmuring  to  himself,  and 
then  prosecuted  his  discourse  in  this  manner  : » And  after  I have  divided  it  from  the  body,  and  left 
you  quietly  possessed  of  your  throne,  it  shall  be  left  at  your  own  choice  to  dispose  of  your  person,  as 
you  shall  think  convenient  : for  as  long  as  I shall  have  my  memory  full  of  her  image,  my  will  capti- 
vated, and  my  understanding  wholly  subjected  to  her,  whom  I now  forbear  to  name,  it  is  im- 
possible I should  in  the  least  deviate  from  the  affection  I bear  to  her,  or  be  induced  to  think  of 
marrying,  though  it  were  a 1 hcenix. 

The  close  of  Don  Quixote's  speech,  which  related  to  his  not  marrying,  touched  Sancho  so  to 
the  quick,  that  he  could  not  forbear  bawling  out  his  resentments.  “ Body  o'  me,  Sir  Don  Quixote, 
cried  he  “ you  are  certainly  out  of  your  wits,  or  how  is  it  possible  you  should  stick  at  striking  a 
bargain  with  so  great  a lady  as  this  ? Do  you  think,  sir,  Fortune  will  put  such  dainty  bits  in  your 
way  at  every  corner  ? Is  my  Lady  Dulcinea  handsomer,  do  you  think  ? No,  marry,  she  is  not 
half  so  handsome  : I could  almost  say  she  is  not  worthy  to  tie  this  lady's  shoe-latchets.  I am 
likely,  indeed,  to  get  the  earldom  I have  fed  myself  with  hopes  of,  if  you  spend  your  time  ,n  fishing 
for  mushrooms  in  the  bottom  of  the  sea.  Marry,  marry  out, of  hand.  Lay  hold  of  the  kingdom 
which  is  ready  to  leap  into  your  hands  ; and  as  soon  as  you  are  a king,  e'en  make  me  a 
marquis,  or  a peer  of  the  land;  and  afterwards  let  things  go  at  sixes  and  sevens,  it  will  be  all  a 

case  to  Sancho.”  . 

Don  Quixote,  quite  divested  of  all  patience  at  the  words  which  were  spoken  against  his 

Lady  Dulcinea,  could  bear  with  him  no  longer ; and  therefore,  without  so  much  as  a word  to  give  him 
notice  of  his  displeasure,  gave  him  two  such  blows  with  his  lance,  that  poor  Sancho  measured  his 
lencnh  on  the  ground,  and  had  certainly  there  breathed  his  last  had  not  the  knight  desisted,  through 
the  persuasions  of  Dorothea.  “ Thinkest  thou,”  said  he,  after  a considerable  pause,  “ most  infamous 
peasant,  that  I shall  always  have  leisure  and  disposition  to  put  up  with  thee  ; and  that  thy  who  e 
business  shall  be  to  study  new  offences,  and  mine  to  give  thee  new  pardons  ? Dost  thou  not  know, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


229 


excommunicated  traitor  (for  certainly  excommunication  is  the  least  punishment  can  fall  upon 
thee,  after  such  profanation  of  the  peerless  Dulcinea’s  name),  and  art  thou  not  assured,  vile  slave  and 
ignominious  vagabond,  that  I should  not  have  strength  sufficient  to  kill  a flea,  did  not  she  give 
strength  to  my  nerves,  and  infuse  vigour  into  my  sinews  ? Speak,  thou  villain  with  the  viper’s 
tongue ; who  dost  thou  imagine  has  restored  the  queen  to  her  kingdom,  cut  off  the  head  of  a giant, 
and  made  thee  a marquis  (for  I count  all  this  as  done  already),  but  the  power  of  Dulcinea,  who 
makes  use  of  my  arm  as  the  instrument  of  her  act  in  me  ? She  fights  and  overcomes  in  me,  and  I 
live  and  breathe  in  her,  holding  life  and  bein^  from  her.  Thou  base-born  wretch!  art  thou  not 
possessed  of  the  utmost  ingratitude,  thou  who  seest  thyself  exalted  from  the  very  dregs  of  the  earth, 
to  nobility  and  honour,  and  yet  dost  repay  so  great  a benefit  with  obloquies  against  the  person  of  thy 
benefactress  ?” 

Sancho  was  not  so  mightily  hurt  but  he  could  hear  what  his  master  said  well  enough  ; where- 
fore, getting  upon  his  legs  in  all  haste,  he  ran  for  shelter  behind  Dorothea’s  palfrey,  and  being  got 
thither,  “ Hark  you,  sir,”  cried  he  to  him,  “ if  you  have  no  thought  of  marrying  this  same  lady,  it  is 
a clear  case  that  the  kingdom  will  never  be  yours  ; and  if  it  be  not,  what  good  can  you  be  able  to 
do  me  ? Then  let  any  one  judge  whether  I have  not  cause  to  complain.  Therefore,  good  your 
worship,  marry  her  once  for  all,  now  we  have  her  rained  down,  as  it  were,  from  heaven  to  us. 
As  for  beauty,  do  you  see,  I’ll  not  meddle  nor  make;  for,  if  I must  say  the  truth,  I like  both  the 
gentlewomen  well  enough  in  conscience  ; though  now  I think  on  it,  I have  never  seen  the  Lady 
Dulcinea.” 

“How!  not  seen  her,  blasphemous  traitor!”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “when  just  now  thou 
broughtest  me  a message  from  her  ! ” 

“ I say,”  answered  Sancho,  “ I have  not  seen  her  so  leisurely  as  to  take  notice  of  her  features 
and  good  parts  one  by  one  ; but  yet,  as  I saw  them  at  a blush,  and  all  at  once,  methought  I had 
no  reason  to  find  fault  with  them.” 

“Well,  I pardon  thee  now,”  quoth  Don  Quixote,  “and  thou  must  excuse  me  for  what  I have 
done  to  thee  ; for  the  first  motions  are  not  in  our  power.” 

“ I perceive  that  well  enough,”  said  Sancho,  “ and  that  is  the  reason  my  first  motions  are  always 
in  my  tongue;  and  I cannot  for  my  life  help  speaking  what  comes  uppermost.” 

“ However,  friend  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  hadst  best  think  before  thou  speakest  ; 
for  the  pitcher  never  goes  so  oft  to  the  well— I need  say  no  more.” 

“Well,  what  must  be  must  be,”  answered  Sancho;  “there  is  one  above  who  sees  all, 
and  will  one  day  judge  which  has  most  to  answer  for,  whether  I for  speaking  amiss  or  you  for 
doing  so.” 

“ No  more  of  this,  Sancho,”  said  Dorothea ; “ but  run  and  kiss  your  lord’s  hands,  and 
beg  his  pardon  ; and,  for  the  time  to  come,  be  more  advised  and  cautious  how  you  run  into 
the  praise  or  dispraise  of  any  person ; but  especially  take  care  you  do  not  speak  ill  of  that 
lady  of  Toboso,  whom  I do  not  know,  though  I am  ready  to  do  her  any  service  ; and  for  your 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


230 

own  part,  trust  in  Heaven  ; for  you  shall  infallibly  have  a lordship,  which  shall  enable  you  to 
live  like  a prince.” 

Sancho  shrugged  up  his  shoulders,  and  in  a sneaking  posture  went  and  asked  his  master  for 
his  hand,  which  he  held  out  to  him  with  a grave  countenance  ; and  after  the  squire  had  kissed  the 
back  of  it,  the  knight  gave  him  his  blessing,  and  told  him  he  had  a word  or  two  with  him,  bidding 
him  come  nearer,  that  he  might  have  the  better  convenience  of  speaking  to  him.  Sancho  did  as  his 
master  commanded,  and  going  a little  from  the  company  with  him— “ Since  thy  return,”  said  Don 
Quixote,  applying  himself  to  him,  “ I have  neither  had  time  nor  opportunity  to  inquire  into  the 
particulars  of  thy  embassy,  and  the  answer  thou  hast  brought ; and  therefore,  since  Fortune  has  now 
befriended  us  with  convenience  and  leisure,  deny  me  not  the  satisfaction  thou  mayest  give  me  by  the 
rehearsal  of  thy  news.” 

“ Ask  what  you  will,”  cried  Sancho,  “ and  you  shall  not  want  for  an  answer  ; but,  good  your 
worship,  for  the  time  to  come,  I beseech  you,  do  not  be  too  hasty.” 

“ What  occasion  hast  thou,  Sancho,  to  make  this  request  .r>  ” replied  Don  Quixote. 

“ Reason  good  enough,  truly,”  said  Sancho ; “ for  the  blows  you  gave  me  even  now  were 
rather  given  me  on  account  of  the  quarrel  which  took  place  between  your  worship  and  me  the  other 
night,  than  for  your  dislike  of  anything  which  was  spoken  against  my  Lady  Dulcinea.” 

“ Pr’ythee,  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ be  careful  of  falling  again  into  such  irreverent 
expressions  ; for  they  provoke  me  to  anger,  and  are  highly  offensive.  I pardoned  thee  then 
for  being  a delinquent,  but  thou  art  sensible  that  a new  offence  must  be  attended  with  a new 
punishment.” 

As  they  were  going  on  in  such  discourse  as  this,  they  saw  at  a distance  a person  riding  up  to 
them  on  an  ass,  who,  as  he  came  near  enough  to  be  distinguished,  seemed  to  be  a gipsy  by  his  habit. 
But  Sancho  Panza,  who,  whenever  he  got  sight  of  any  asses,  followed  them  with  his  eyes  and  his 
heart,  as  one  whose  thoughts  were  ever  fixed  on  his  own,  had  scarce  given  him  half  an  eye,  but  he 
knew  him  to  be  Gines  de  Passamonte,  and  by  the  looks  of  the  gipsy  found  out  the  visage  of  his 
ass ; as  really  it  was  the  very  same  which  Gines  had  got  under  him  ; who,  to  conceal  himself  from 
the  knowledge  of  the  public,  and  have  the  better  opportunity  of  making  a good  market  of  his 
beast,  had  clothed  himself  like  a gipsy  ; the  cant  of  that  sort  of  people,  as  well  as  the  languages  of 
other  countries,  being  as  natural  and  familiar  to  him  as  his  own.  Sancho  saw  him  and  knew 
him;  and  scarce  had  he  seen  and  taken  notice  of  him,  when  he  cried  out  as  loud  as  his  tongue  would 
permit  him,  “Ah  ! thou  thief  Genesillo,  leave  my  goods  and  chattels  behind  thee  : get  off  from  the 
back  of  my  own  dear  life  : thou  hast  nothing  to  do  with  my  poor  beast,  without  whom  I cannot 
enjoy  a moment’s  ease  : away  from  my  Dapple,  away  from  my  comfort ; take  to  thy  heels,  thou 
villain  ; hence,  thou  hedge  bird  ; leave  what  is  none  of  thine  ! ” 

He  had  no  occasion  to  use  so  many  words  ; for  Gines  dismounted  as  soon  as  he  heard  him 
speak,  and  taking  to  his  heels,  got  from  them,  and  was  out  of  sight  in  an  instant. 

Sancho  ran  immediately  to  his  ass  and  embraced  him.  “ How  hast  thou  done,”  cried  he,  “since 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I saw  thee,  my  darling  and  treasure,  my  dear  Dapple,  the  delight  of  my  eyes,  and  my  dearest 
companion  ? ” 

And  then  he  stroked  and  slobbered  him  with  kisses,  as  if  the  beast  had  been  a rational  creature. 
The  ass,  for  his  part,  was  as  silent  as  could  be,  and  gave  Sancho  the  liberty  of  as  many  kisses  as  he 
pleased,  without  the  return  of  so  much  as  one  word  to  the  many  questions  he  had  put  to  him.  At 
sight  of  this  the  rest  of  the  company  came  up  with  him,  and  paid  their  compliments  of  congratulation 
to  Sancho,  for  the  recovery  of  his  ass,  especially  Don  Quixote,  who  told  him  that  though  he  had 
found  his  ass  again,  yet  would  not  he  revoke  the  warrant  he  had  given  him  for  three  asses  ; for 
which  favour  Sancho  returned  him  a multitude  of  thanks. 

While  they  were  travelling  together,  and  discoursing  after  this  manner,  the  curate  addressed 
himself  to  Dorothea,  and  gave  her  to  understand,  that  she  had  excellently  discharged  herself  of  what 
she  had  undertaken,  as  well  in  the  management  of  the  history  itself,  as  in  her  brevity,  and  adapting 
her  style  to  the  particular  terms  made  use  of  in  books  of  knight-errantry.  She  returned  for  answer, 
that  she  had  frequently  conversed  with  such  romances,  but  that  she  was  ignorant  of  the  situation  of 
the  provinces  and  the  sea-ports,  which  occasioned  the  blunder  she  had  made,  by  saying  that  she 
landed  at  Ossuna. 

“ I perceived  it,”  replied  the  curate,  “ and  therefore  I put  in  what  you  heard,  which  brought 
matters  to  rights  again.  But  is  it  not  an  amazing  thing,  to  see  how  ready  this  unfortunate  gentleman 
is  to  give  credit  to  these  fictitious  reports,  only  because  they  have  the  air  of  the  extravagant  stories 
in  books  of  knight-errantry  ? ” 

Cardenio  said  that  he  thought  this  so  strange  a madness,  that  he  did  not  believe  the  wit  of 
man,  with  all  the  liberty  of  invention  and  fiction,  capable  of  hitting  so  extraordinary  a character. 

“ The  gentleman,”  replied  the  curate,  “ has  some  qualities  in  him,  even  as  surprising  in  a 

madman  as  his  unparalleled  frenzy  : for,  take  him  but  off  his  romantic  humour,  discourse  with  him 
of  any  other  subject,  you  will  find  him  to  handle  it  with  a great  deal  of  reason,  and  show  himself,  by 
his  conversation,  to  have  very  clear  and  entertaining  conceptions  : insomuch,  that  if  knight-errantry 
bears  no  relation  to  his  discourse,  there  is  no  man  but  will  esteem  him  for  his  vivacity  of  wit,  and 
strength  of  judgment.” 

While  they  were  thus  discoursing,  Don  Quixote,  prosecuting  his  converse  with  his  squire, 
“ Sancho,”  said  he,  “let  us  lay  aside  all  manner  of  animosity;  let  us  forget  and  forgive  injuries;  and 
answer  me  as  speedily  as  thou  canst,  without  any  remains  of  thy  last  displeasure,  how,  when,  and 
where  didst  thou  find  my  Lady  Dulcinea?  What  was  she  doing  when  thou  first  paidst  thy  respects 
to  her  ? How  didst  thou  express  thyself  to  her  ? What  answer  was  she  pleased  to  make  thee? 
What  countenance  did  she  put  on  at  the  perusal  of  my  letter  ? Who  transcribed  it  fairly  for 

thee  ? And  everything  else  which  has  any  relation  to  this  affair,  without  addition,  lies,  or  flattery. 

On  the  other  side,  take  care  thou  losest  not  a tittle  of  the  whole  matter,  by  abbreviating  it,  lest 
thou  rob  me  of  part  of  that  delight  which  I propose  to  myself  from  it.” 

“ Sir,”  answered  Sancho,  “ if  I must  speak  the  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth,  nobody  copied 
out  the  letter  for  me  ; for  I carried  none  at  all.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ That’s  right,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ for  I found  the  pocket-book,  in  which  it  was  written,  two 
days  after  thy  departure,  which  occasioned  exceeding  grief  in  me,  because  I knew  not  what  thou 
couldst  do,  when  thou  foundst  thyself  without  the  letter  ; and  I could  not  but  be  induced  to  believe 
that  thou  wouldst  have  returned,  in  order  to  take  it  with  thee.” 

“ I had  certainly  done  so,”  replied  Sancho,  “ were  it  not  for  this  head  of  mine,  which  kept  it  in 
remembrance  ever  since  your  worship  read  it  to  me,  and  helped  me  to  say  it  over  to  a parish-clerk, 
who  writ  it  out  for  me  word  for  word  so  purely,  that  he  swore,  though  he  had  written  out  many  a 
letter  of  excommunication  in  his  time,  he  never  in  all  the  days  of  his  life  had  read  or  seen  anything 
so  well  spoken  as  it  was.” 

“ And  dost  thou  still  retain  the  memory  of  it,  my  dear  Sancho  ? ” cried  Don  Quixote. 

“ Not  I,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ for  as  soon  as  I had  given  it  her,  and  your  turn  was  served,  I was 
very  willing  to  forget  it.  But  if  I remember  anything,  it  is  what  was  on  the  top  ; and  it  was  thus  : 
‘High  and  subterrene,  I would  say,  sovereign  lady:'  and  at  the  bottom,  ‘Yours  until  death,  the 
Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure  ; ’ and  I put  between  these  two  things,  three  hundred  souls  and  lives 
and  dear  eyes.” 


CHAPTER  XXX. 


THE  PLEASANT  DIALOGUE  BETWEEN  DON  QUIXOTE  AND  HIS  SQUIRE  CONTINUED,  WITH  OTHER 

ADVENTURES. 


A 


LL  this  is  mighty  well,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “proceed  therefore.  You  arrived,  and  how  was 
that  queen  of  beauty  then  employed  ? On  my  conscience,  thou  foundst  her  stringing  of 
orient  pearls,  or  embroidering  some  curious  device  in  gold  for  me,  her  captive  knight ; was  it  not  so, 
my  Sancho  ? ” 

“No,  faith,”  answered  the  squire  ; “ I found  her  winnowing  a parcel  of  wheat  very  seriously  in  the 
back  yard.” 

“ Then,”  said  the  Don,  “ you  may  rest  assured  that  every  corn  of  that  wheat  was  a grain  of 
pearl,  since  she  did  it  the  honour  of  touching  it  with  her  divine  hand.  Didst  thou  observe  the 
quality  of  the  wheat  ? was  it  not  of  the  finest  sort  ? ” 

“ Very  indifferent,  I thought,”  said  the  squire. 

“ Well,  this  at  least  you  must  allow  ; it  must  make  the  finest  whitest  bread,  if  sifted  by  her 
white  hands.  But  go  on  ; when  you  delivered  my  letter,  did  she  kiss  it  ? Did  she  treasure  it  in 
her  bosom,  or  what  ceremony  did  she  use  worthy  such  a letter  ? How  did  she  behave  herself  ?” 


30 


234 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Why  truly,  sir,”  answered  Sancho,  “ when  I offered  her  the  letter,  she  was  very  busy  handling 
her  sieve  ; ‘ and  pr’ythee,  honest  friend,’  said  she,  ‘ do  so  much  as  lay  that  letter  down  upon  that  sack 
there  ; I cannot  read  it  till  I have  winnowed  out  what  is  in  my  hands.’  ” 

“ Oh,  unparalleled  discretion  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “she  knew  that  a perusal  required  leisure, 
and  therefore  deferred  it,  for  her  more  pleasing  and  private  hours.  But,  oh  ! my  squire,  while  she 
was  thus  employed,  what  conference  passed  ? What  did  she  ask  about  her  knight,  and  what  did  you 
reply  ? Say  all,  say  all,  my  dearest  Sancho ; let  not  the  smallest  circumstance  escape  the  tongue  ; 
speak  all  that  thought  can  frame,  or  pen  describe.” 

“ Her  questions  were  easily  answered,  sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ for  she  asked  me  none  at  all  : I told 
her,  indeed,  in  what  a sad  pickle  I had  left  you  for  her  sake,  naked  to  the  waist ; that  you  ate  and 
slept  like  the  brute  beasts  ; that  you  would  let  a razor  as  soon  touch  your  throat  as  your  beard  ; 
that  you  were  still  blubbering  and  crying,  or  swearing  and  cursing  your  fortune.” 

“ There  you  mistook,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ I rather  bless  my  fortune,  and  always  shall,  while 
life  affords  me  breath,  since  I am  thought  to  merit  the  esteem  of  so  high  a lady  as  Dulcinea  del 
Toboso.” 

“ There  you  hit  it,”  said  Sancho ; “ she  is  a high  lady  indeed,  sir,  for  she  is  taller  than  I am  by 
a foot  and  a half.” 

“ Why,  how  now,  Sancho  ?”  said  the  knight ; “ hast  thou  measured  with  her  ? ” 

“ Ah ! marry  did  I,  sir,”  said  the  squire  ; “ for  you  must  know  that  she  desired  me  to  lend  her 
a hand  in  lifting  a sack  of  wheat  on  an  ass  ; so  we  buckled  about  it,  and  I came  so  close  to  her  that 
I found  she  was  taller  than  I am  by  a full  span  at  least.” 

“ Right,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  thou  art  also  conscious  that  the  uncommon  stature  of 
her  person  is  adorned  with  innumerable  graces  and  endowments  of  soul.  But,  Sancho,  supposing 
the  corn  winnowed  and  dispatched  to  the  mill,  what  did  she  after  she  had  read  my  letter  ? ” 

“Your  letter,  sir,”  answered  Sancho,  “your  letter  was  not  read  at  all,  sir;  as  for  her  part, 
she  said,  she  could  neither  read  nor  write,  and  she  would  trust  nobody  else,  lest  they  should  tell  tales, 
and  so  she  cunningly  tore  your  letter.  She  said  that  what  I told  her  by  word  of  mouth  of  your 
love  and  penance  was  enough  : to  make  short  now,  she  gave  her  service  to  you,  and  said  she  had 
rather  see  you  than  hear  from  you  ; and  she  prayed  you,  if  ever  you  loved  her,  upon  sight  of  me, 
forthwith  to  leave  your  madness  among  the  bushes  here,  and  come  straight  to  Toboso  (if  you  be 
at  leisure),  for  she  has  something  to  say  to  you,  and  has  a great  desire  to  see  you  : she  had  like  to 
burst  with  laughing,  when  I called  you  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure.  She  told  me  the  Biscayan 
whom  you  mauled  so  was  there,  and  that  he  was  a very  honest  fellow  ; but  that  she  heard  no  news 
at  all  of  the  galley-slaves.” 

“ Thus  far  all  goes  well,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ but  tell  me,  pray,  what  jewel  did  she  present 
you  at  your  departure,  as  a reward  for  the  news  you  brought  ? for  it  is  a custom  of  ancient  standing 
among  knights  and  ladies  errant,  to  bestow  on  squires,  dwarfs,  or  damsels,  who  bring  them  good 
ews  of  their  ladies  or  servants,  some  precious  jewel  as  a grateful  reward  of  their  welcome  tidings.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


235 


“ Ah  ! sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ that  was  the  fashion  in  the  days  of  yore,  and  a very  good  fashion,  I 
take  it : but  all  the  jewels  Sancho  got  was  a luncheon  of  bread  and  a piece  of  cheese,  which  she 
handed  to  me  over  the  wall  when  I was  taking  my  leave  ; by  the  same  token  (I  hope  there’s  no  ill 
luck  in  it),  the  cheese  was  made  of  sheeps  milk. 

“ It  is  strange,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “for  she  is  liberal,  even  to  profuseness  ; and  if  she  presented 
thee  not  a jewel,  she  had  certainly  none  about  her  at  that  time  ; but  what  is  deferred  is  not  lost, 
‘sleeves  are  good  after  Easter.’  I shall  see  her,  and  matters  shall  be  accommodated.  Knowest  thou, 
Sancho,  what  raises  my  astonishment  ? it  is  thy  sudden  return  ; for,  proportioning  thy  short  absence 
to  the  length  of  thy  journey,  Toboso  being,  at  least,  thirty  leagues  distant,  thou  must  have  ridden 
on  the  wind.  Certainly  the  sagacious  enchanter,  who  is  my  guardian  and  friend  (for  doubtless  such 
a one  there  is  and  ought  to  be,  or  I should  not  be  a true  knight-errant),  certainly,  I say,  that  wise 
magician  has  furthered  thee  on  thy  journey  unawares  ; for  there  are  sages  of  such  incredible  power, 
as  to  take  up  a knight-errant  sleeping  in  his  bed,  and  waken  him  next  morning  a thousand  leagues 
from  the  place  where  he  fell  asleep.  By  this  power  knights-errant  succour  one  another  in  their 
most  dangerous  moments  when  and  where  they  please.  For  instance,  suppose  me  fighting  in  the 
mountains  of  Armenia,  with  some  fearful  monster,  some  dreadful  sprite,  or  fierce  gigantic  knight, 
where  perhaps  I am  like  to  be  worsted  (such  a thing  may  happen),  when  just  in  the  very  crisis  of 
my  fate,  when  I least  expect  it,  I behold  on  the  top  of  a flying  cloud,  or  riding  in  a flaming  chariot, 
another  knight,  my  friend,  who,  but  a minute  before,  was  in  England,  perhaps — he  sustains  me, 
delivers  me  from  death,  and  returns  that  night  to  his  own  lodging,  where  he  sups  with  a very  good 
appetite  after  his  journey,  having  rid  you  two  or  three  thousand  leagues  that  day;  and  all  this  per- 
formed by  the  industry  and  wisdom  of  these  knowing  magicians,  whose  only  business  and  charge 
is  glorious  knight-errantry.  Some  such  expeditious  power,  I believe,  Sancho,  though  hidden  from 
you,  has  promoted  so  great  a dispatch  in  your  late  journey.” 

“ I believe,  indeed,”  answered  Sancho,  “ that  there  was  witchcraft  in  the  case,  for  Rozinante 
went  without  spur  all  the  way,  and  was  as  mettlesome  as  though  he  had  been  a gipsy’s  ass,  with 
quicksilver  in  his  ears.” 

“ Quicksilver ! you  coxcomb,”  said  the  knight,  “ aye,  and  a troop  of  devils  besides  ; and  they 
are  the  best  horse-coursers  in  nature,  you  must  know,  for  they  must  needs  go  whom  the  devil 
drives  ; but  no  more  of  that.  What  is  thy  advice  as  to  my  lady’s  commands  to  visit  her  ? I 
know  her  power  should  regulate  my  will.  But  then  my  honour,  Sancho,  my  solemn  promise  has 
engaged  me  to  the  princess’s  service  that  comes  with  us,  and  the  law  of  arms  confines  me  to  my 
word.  Love  draws  me  one,  and  glory  t’other  way  : on  this  side  Dulcinea’s  strict  commands,  on  the 

other  my  promised  faith  ; but it  is  resolved.  I’ll  travel  night  and  day,  cut  off  this  giant’s  head, 

and,  having  settled  the  princess  in  her  dominions,  will  presently  return  to  see  that  sun  which 
enlightens  my  senses.  She  will  easily  condescend  to  excuse  my  absence,  when  I convince  her  it  was 
for  fame  and  glory  ; since  the  past,  present,  and  future  success  of  my  victorious  arms  depends  wholly 
on  the  gracious  influences  of  her  favour,  and  the  honour  of  being  her  knight.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


236 

“Oh,  sad  ! 0I1,  sad!”  said  Sancho ; “ I doubt  your  worship’s  head  is  much  the  worse  for  wearing. 
Are  you  mad,  sir,  to  take  so  long  a voyage  for  nothing  ? why  don't  you  catch  at  this  preferment  that 
now  offers,  where  a fine  kingdom  is  the  portion,  twenty  thousand  leagues  round,  they  say  ; nay, 
bigger  than  Portugal  and  Castile  both  together?  Good  your  worship,  hold  your  tongue,  I wonder 
you  are  not  ashamed.  Take  a fool's  counsel  for  once,  marry  her  by  the  first  priest  you  meet ; 
here  is  our  own  curate  can  do  the  job  most  curiously.  Come,  master,  I have  hair  enough  in 
my  beard  to  make  a counsellor,  and  my  advice  is  as  fit  for  you  as  your  shoe  for  your  foot : ‘ a 
bird  in  hand  is  worth  two  in  the  bush,’  and 


‘ He  that  will  not  when  he  may, 

When  he  would,  he  shall  have  nay.’  ” 


“ Thou  advisest  me  thus,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “that  I may  be  able  to  promote  thee  according 
to  my  promise  ; but  that  I can  do  without  marrying  this  lady  ; for  I shall  make  this  the  condition  of 
entering  into  battle,  that  after  my  victory,  without  marrying  the  princess,  she  shall  leave  part 
of  her  kingdom  at  my  disposal,  to  gratify  whom  I please  ; and  who  can  claim  any  such  gratuity  but 
thyself  ? ” 

“ That’s  plain,”  answered  Sancho ; “ but  pray,  sir,  take  care  that  you  reserve  some  part  near  the 
sea-side  for  me ; that  if  the  air  does  not  agree  with  me,  I may  transport  my  black  subjects,  make  my 
profit  of  them,  and  go  live  somewhere  else ; so  that  I would  have  you  resolve  upon  it  presently, 
leave  the  Lady  Dulcinea  for  the  present,  and  go  kill  this  same  giant,  and  make  an  end  of  that 
business  first ; for  I dare  swear  it  will  yield  you  a good  market.” 

“ I am  fixed  in  thy  opinion,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  I admonish  thee  not  to  whisper  to  any 
person  the  least  hint  of  our  conference ; for  since  Dulcinea  is  so  cautious  and  secret,  it  is  proper  that 
I and  mine  should  follow  her  example.” 

“ Why,  then,”  said  Sancho,  “ should  you  send  everybody  you  overcome  packing  to  Madam 
Dulcinea,  to  fall  down  before  her,  and  tell  her  they  came  from  you  to  pay  their  obedience, 
when  this  tells  all  the  world  that  she  is  your  mistress,  as  much  as  if  they  had  it  under  your  own 
hand  ? ” 

“ How  dull  of  apprehension  and  stupid  thou  art!"  said  the  knight;  “hast  thou  not  sense  to 
find  that  all  this  redounds  to  her  greater  glory  ? Know  that,  in  proceedings  of  chivalry,  a lady’s 
honour  is  calculated  from  the  number  of  her  servants,  whose  services  must  not  tend  to  any  reward 
but  the  favour  of  her  acceptance,  and  the  pure  honour  of  performing  them  for  her  sake,  and  being 
called  her  servants. 

“I  have  heard  our  curate,”  answered  Sancho,  “preach  up  this  doctrine  of  loving  for  loves 
sake,  and  that  we  ought  to  love  our  Maker  so  for  his  own  sake,  without  either  hope  of  good  or 
fear  of  pain.” 

t:  Thou  art  an  unaccountable  fellow,”  cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ thou  talkest  sometimes  with  so 
much  sense,  that  one  would  imagine  thee  to  be  something  of  a scholar.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


237 

“ A scholar,  sir ! ” answered  Sancho ; “ lack-a-day,  I do  not  know,  as  I am  an  honest  man,  a 
letter  in  the  book.’’ 

Master  Nicholas,  seeing  them  so  deep  in  discourse,  called  to  them  to  stop  and  drink  at  a 
little  fountain  by  the  road.  Don  Quixote  halted,  and  Sancho  was  very  glad  of  the  interruption,  his 
stock  of  lies  being  almost  spent,  and  he  stood  in  danger  besides  of  being  trapped  in  his  words,  for 
he  had  never  seen  Dulcinea,  though  he  knew  she  lived  at  Toboso.  Cardenio  by  this  had  changed 
his  clothes  for  those  Dorothea  wore  when  they  found  her  in  the  mountains ; and  though  they  made 
but  an  ordinary  figure,  they  looked  much  better  than  those  he  had  put  off.  They  all  stopped  at  the 
fountain,  and  fell  aboard  the  curate’s  provision,  which  was  but  a snap  among  so  many,  for  they  were 
all  very  hungry.  While  they  sat  refreshing  themselves,  a young  lad,  travelling  that  way,  observed 
them,  and,  looking  earnestly  on  the  whole  company,  ran  suddenly  and  fell  down  before  Don 
Quixote,  addressing  him  in  a very  doleful  manner.  “ Alas  ! good  sir,”  said  he ; “ don’t  you  know 
me  ? don't  you  remember  poor  Andrew,  whom  you  caused  to  be  untied  from  the  tree  ? ” 

With  that  the  knight  knew  him  ; and,  raising  him  up,  turned  to  the  company  : “ That  you  may 
all  know,”  said  he,  “of  how  great  importance,  to  the  redressing  of  injuries,  punishing  vice,  and  the 
universal  benefit  of  mankind,  the  business  of  knight-errantry  may  be,  you  must  understand  that, 
riding  through  a desert  some  days  ago,  I heard  certain  lamentable  shrieks  and  outcries.  Prompted 
by  the  misery  of  the  afflicted,  and  borne  away  by  the  zeal  of  my  profession,  I followed  the  voice,  and 
found  this  boy,  whom  you  all  see,  bound  to  a great  oak  : I am  glad  he  is  present,  because  he  can 
attest  the  truth  of  my  relation.  I found  him,  as  I told  you,  bound  to  an  oak  ; naked  from  the  waist 
upwards,  and  a cruel  peasant  scourging  his  back  unmercifully  with  the  reins  of  a bridle. 

I presently  demanded  the  cause  of  his  severe  chastisement.  The  rude  fellow  answered,  that  he  had 
liberty  to  punish  his  own  servant,  whom  he  thus  used  for  some  faults  that  argued  him  more  knave 
than  fool.  ‘Good  sir,’  said  the  boy,  ‘he  can  lay  nothing  to  my  charge,  but  demanding  my  wages.’ 
His  master  made  some  reply,  which  I would  not  allow  as  a just  excuse,  and  ordered  him 
immediately  to  unbind  the  youth,  and  took  his  oath  that  he  would  take  him  home,  and  pay  him  all 
his  wages  upon  the  nail,  in  good  and  lawful  coin.  Is  not  this  literally  true,  Andrew  ? did  you  not 
mark,  besides,  with  what  face  of  authority  I commanded,  and  with  how  much  humility  he  promised 
to  obey  all  I imposed,  commanded,  and  desired  ? Answer  me,  boy  ; and  tell  boldly  all  that  passed 
to  this  worthy  company,  that  it  may  appear  how  necessary  the  vocation  of  knights-errant  is  up  and 
down  the  high  roads.” 

“ All  you  have  said  is  true  enough,  answered  Andrew ; “ but  the  business  did  not  end  after 
that  manner  you  and  I hoped  it  would.” 

“ How ! ” said  the  knight ; “ has  not  the  peasant  paid  you  ? 

“ Ay,  he  has  paid  me  with  a vengeance,"  said  the  boy  ; “ for  no  sooner  was  your  back  turned, 
but  he  tied  me  again  to  the  same  tree,  and  lashed  me  so  cursedly,  that  I looked  like  St.  Bartholomew 
flayed  alive ; and  at  every  blow  he  had  some  joke  or  another  to  laugh  at  you  ; and  had  lie  not  laid 
me  on  as  he  did,  I fancy  I could  not  have  helped  laughing  myself.  At  last  he  left  me  in  so  pitiful 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


238 

a case,  that  I was  forced  to  crawl  to  an  hospital,  where  I have  lain  ever  since  to  get  cured,  so 
wofully  the  tyrant  had  lashed  me.  And  now,  I may  thank  you  for  this,  for  had  you  rid  on  your 
journey,  and  neither  meddled  nor  made,  seeing  nobody  sent  for  you,  and  it  was  none  of  your 
business,  my  master,  perhaps,  had  been  satisfied  with  giving  me  ten  or  twenty  lashes,  and  after  that 
would  have  paid  me  what  he  owed  me  ; but  you  was  so  huffy,  and  called  him  so  many  names,  that 
it  made  him  mad,  and  so  he  vented  all  his  spite  against  you  upon  my  poor  back,  as  soon  as  yours 
was  turned,  insomuch  that  I fear  I shall  never  be  mine  own  man  aofain.” 

“ "1'he  miscarriage,”  answered  the  knight,  “ is  only  chargeable  on  my  departure  before  I saw 
my  orders  executed  ; for  I might  by  experience  have  remembered  that  the  word  of  a peasant  is 
regulated  not  by  honour,  but  by  profit.  But  you  remember,  Andrew,  how  I swore,  if  he 
disobeyed,  that  I would  return  and  seek  him  through  the  universe,  and  find  him,  though  hid  in  a 
whale’s  belly.” 

“ Ah  ! sir,”  answered  Andrew,  “ but  that’s  no  cure  for  my  poor  shoulders.” 

“ You  shall  be  redressed,"  answered  the  knight,  starting  fiercely  up,  and  commanding  Sancho 
immediately  to  bridle  Rozinante,  who  was  baiting  as  fast  as  the  rest  of  the  company.  Dorothea 
asked  what  he  intended  to  do  : he  answered,  that  he  intended  to  find  out  the  villain,  and  punish  him 
severely  for  his  crimes,  then  force  him  to  pay  Andrew  his  wages  to  the  last  maravedi,  in  spite  of  all 
the  peasants  in  the  universe.  She  then  desired  him  to  remember  his  engagements  to  her,  which 
withheld  him  from  any  new  achievement  till  that  was  finished  ; that  he  must  therefore  suspend  his 
resentments  till  his  return  from  her  kingdom. 

“It  is  but  just  and  reasonable,”  said  the  knight;  “and  therefore  Andrew  must  wait  with 
patience  my  return  : but  when  I do  return,  I do  hereby  ratify  my  former  oath  and  promise,  never  to 
rest  till  he  be  fully  satisfied  and  paid.” 

“I  dare  not  trust  to  that,”  answered  Andrew;  “but  if  you  will  bestow  on  me  as  much  money  as 
will  bear  my  charges  to  Seville,  I shall  thank  your  worship  more  than  for  all  the  revenge  you  tell 
me  of.  Give  me  a snap  to  eat,  and  a bit  in  my  pocket,  and  so  Heaven  be  with  you  and  all 
other  knights-errant,  and  may  they  prove  as  arrant  fools  in  their  own  business  as  they  have  been  in 
mine.” 

Sancho  took  a crust  of  bread  and  a slice  of  cheese,  and  reaching  it  to  Andrew,  “ There, 
friend,”  said  he,  “ there  is  something  for  thee ; on  my  word,  we  have  all  of  us  a share  of  thy  mis- 
chance.” 

“What  share  ? ” said  Andrew. 

“ Why,  the  mischance  of  parting  with  this  bread  and  cheese  to  thee ; for  my  head  to  a 
halfpenny,  I may  live  to  want  it ; for  thou  must  know,  friend  of  mine,  that  we,  the  squires  of 
knights-errant,  often  pick  our  teeth  without  a dinner,  and  are  subject  to  many  other  things,  which 
are  better  felt  than  told.” 

Andrew  snatched  at  the  provender,  and  seeing  no  likelihood  of  any  more,  he  made  his  leg  and 
marched  off.  But,  looking  over  his  shoulder  at  Don  Oui-xote,  Hark  ye,  you  Sir  Knight-errant, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  IvlANCHA. 


239 


cried  he,  “ if  ever  you  meet  me  again  in  your  travels,  which  I hope  you  never  shall,  though  I were 
torn  in  pieces,  do  not  trouble  me  with  your  help,  but  mind  your  own  business  ; and  so  fare  you 
well,  with  a curse  upon  you  and  all  the  knights-errant  that  ever  were  born.” 

The  knight  thought  to  chastise  him,  but  the  lad  was  too  nimble  for  any  there,  and  his  heels 
carried  him  off,  leaving  Don  Quixote  highly  incensed  at  his  story,  which  moved  the  company  to 
hold  their  laughter,  lest  they  should  raise  his  anger  to  a dangerous  height. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 

WHAT  BEFELL  DON  QUIXOTE  AND  HIS  COMPANY  AT  THE  INN. 

WHEN  they  had  eaten  plentifully,  they  left  that  place,  and  travelled  all  that  day  and  the 
next,  without  meeting  anything  worth  notice,  till  they  came  to  the  inn,  which  was  so 
frightful  a sight  to  poor  Sancho,  that  he  would  willingly  not  have  gone  in,  but  could  by  no  means 
avoid  it.  The  innkeeper,  the  hostess,  her  daughter,  and  Maritornes  met  Don  Quixote  and  his 
squire  with  a very  hearty  welcome.  The  knight  received  them  with  a face  of  gravity  and  approba- 
tion, bidding  them  prepare  him  a better  bed  than  their  last  entertainment  afforded  him. 

“ Sir,”  said  the  hostess,  “ pay  us  better  than  you  did  then,  and  you  shall  have  a bed  for  a 
prince.” 

And  upon  the  knight’s  promise  that  he  would,  she  promised  him  a tolerable  bed,  in  the  large 
room  where  he  lay  before.  He  presently  undressed,  and,  being  heartily  crazed  in  body  as  well  as 
in  mind,  he  went  to  bed.  He  was  scarcely  got  to  his  chamber,  when  the  hostess  flew  suddenly  at 
the  barber,  and,  catching  him  by  the  beard,  “ On  my  life,”  said  she,  “ you  shall  use  my  tail  no  longer 
for  a beard.  Pray,  sir,  give  me  my  tail ; my  husband  wants  it,  and  my  tail  will  I have,  sir.” 

The  barber  held  tug  with  her  till  the  curate  advised  him  to  return  it,  telling  him  that  he  might 
now  undisguise  himself,  and  tell  Don  Quixote  that  after  the  galley-slaves  had  pillaged  him,  he  fled 


31 


How  Don  Diego  Garcia  with  his  single  force  defended  the  passage  of  a bridge  against  a great  army.”-^>.  244, 


242 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


to  that  inn ; and  if  he  should  ask  for  the  princess’s  squire,  he  should  pretend  that  he  was  dispatched 
to  her  kingdom  before  her,  to  give  her  subjects  an  account  of  her  arrival,  and  of  the  power  she 
brought  to  free  them  all  from  slavery.  The  barber,  thus  schooled,  gave  the  hostess  her  tail,  with  the 
other  trinkets  which  he  had  borrowed,  to  decoy  Don  Quixote  out  of  the  desert.  Dorotheas  beauty 
and  Cardenio’s  handsome  shape  surprised  everybody.  The  curate  bespoke  supper,  and  the  host, 
being  pretty  sure  of  his  reckoning,  soon  got  them  a tolerable  entertainment.  They  would  not 
disturb  the  knight,  who  slept  very  soundly,  for  his  distemper  wanted  rest  more  than  meat  ; 
but  they  diverted  themselves  with  the  hostess’s  account  of  his  encounter  with  the  carriers,  and 
of  Sancho’s  being  tossed  in  a blanket.  Don  Quixote’s  unaccountable  madness  was  the  principal 
subject  of  their  discourse ; upon  which  the  curate  insisting,  and  arguing  it  to  proceed  from  his 
reading  romances,  the  innkeeper  took  him  up. 

“ Sir,”  said  he,  “ you  cannot  make  me  of  your  opinion  ; for,  in  my  mind,  it  is  the  pleasantest 
reading  that  ever  was.  I have  now  in  the  house  two  or  three  books  of  that  kind,  and  some 
other  pieces,  that  really  have  kept  me,  and  many  others,  alive.  In  harvest  time,  a great  many 
of  the  reapers  come  to  drink  here  in  the  heat  of  the  day,  and  he  that  can  read  best  among  us 

takes  up  one  of  these  books,  and  all  the  rest  of  us,  sometimes  thirty  or  more,  sit  round  about 

him,  and  listen  with  such  pleasure,  that  we  think  neither  of  sorrow  nor  care.  As  for  my  own 
part,  when  I hear  the  mighty  blows  and  dreadful  battles  of  those  knights-errant,  I have  half  a 
mind  to  be  one  myself,  and  am  raised  to  such  a life  and  briskness  that  I could  frighten  away 
old  age.  I could  sit  and  hear  them  from  morning;  till  night.” 

o o 

“ I wish  you  would,  husband,”  said  the  hostess  ; “ for  then  we  should  have  some  rest ; for  at 
all  other  times  you  are  so  out  of  humour,  and  so  snappish,  that  we  lead  a dreadful  life  with  you.” 

“ That  is  true  enough,”  said  Maritornes  ; “ and,  for  my  part,  I think  there  are  mighty  pretty 
stories  in  those  books,  which  I would  often  forego  my  dinner  and  supper  to  hear.” 

“ And  what  think  you  of  this  matter,  young  miss  ? ” said  the  curate  to  the  innkeeper’s 
daughter. 

“ Alack-a-day,  sir!”  said  she  ; “ I do  not  understand  those  things,  and  yet  I love  to  hear  them  : 
but  I do  not  like  that  frightful  ugly  fighting  that  so  pleases  my  father.  Indeed,  the  sad 

lamentations  of  the  poor  knights,  for  the  loss  of  their  mistresses,  sometimes  makes  me  cry  like 

anything.” 

“ I suppose,  then,  young  gentlewoman,”  said  Dorothea,  “ you  will  be  tender-hearted,  and  will 
never  let  a lover  die  for  you.” 

“ I do  not  know  what  may  happen  as  to  that,”  said  the  girl  ; “ but  this  I know,  that  I will 
never  give  anybody  reason  to  call  me  tigress  and  lioness,  and  I do  not  know  how  many  other 
ugly  names,  as  those  ladies  are  often  called  ; and  I think  they  deserve  yet  worse,  so  they  do  ; 
for  they  can  never  have  soul  nor  conscience,  to  let  such  fine  gentlemen  die  or  run  mad  for  a 
sight  of  them.  What  signifies  all  their  fiddling  and  coyness  ? If  they  are  civil  women,  why  do 
not  they  marry  them  ? for  that  is  all  their  knights  would  be  at.” 


244 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“Hold  your  prating,  mistress,”  said  the  hostess;  “how  came  you  to  know  all  this?  It  is 
not  for  such  as  you  to  talk  of  these  matters.” 

“ The  gentleman  only  asked  me  a question,”  said  she,  “ and  it  would  be  uncivil  not  to  answer 
him.” 

“ Well,”  said  the  curate,  “ do  me  the  favour,  good  landlord,  to  bring  out  these  books,  that 
I may  have  a sight  of  them.” 

“With  all  my  heart,”  said  the  innkeeper;  and  with  that,  stepping  to  his  chamber,  he  opened 
a little  portmanteau  that  shut  with  a chain,  and  took  out  three  large  volumes,  with  a parcel  of 
manuscripts,  in  a fair  legible  letter.  The  title  of  the  first  was  “Don  Cirongilio  of  Thrace;”  the 
second,  “ Felixmarte  of  Hircania  ; ” and  the  third  was  the  “ History  of  the  great  Captain  Gonzalo 
Hernandes  de  Corduba,”  and  the  “ Life  of  Diego  Garcia  de  Paredes,”  bound  together. 

The  curate,  reading  the  titles,  turned  to  the  barber,  and  told  him  they  wanted  now  Don 
Quixote’s  housekeeper  and  his  niece. 

“ I shall  do  as  well  with  these  books,”  said  the  barber,  “ for  I can  find  the  way  to  the 
back-yard  or  to  the  chimney  ; there  is  a good  fire  that  will  do  their  business.” 

“ Business  ! ” said  the  innkeeper ; “ I hope  you  would  not  burn  my  books  ? ” 

“ Only  two  of  them,”  said  the  curate  ; “ this  same  Don  Cirongilio,  and  his  friend  Felixmarte.” 

“ I hope,  sir,”  said  the  host,  “ they  are  neither  heretics  nor  phlegmatics.” 

“ Schismatics,  you  mean,”  said  the  barber. 

“ I mean  so,”  said  the  innkeeper ; “ and  if  you  must  bum  any,  let  it  be  this  of  ‘ Gonzalo 
Hernandes,’  and  ‘ Diego  Garcia;’  for  you  should  sooner  burn  one  of  my  children  than  the  others.” 

“ These  books,  honest  friend,”  said  the  curate,  “ that  you  appear  so  concerned  for,  are 
senseless  rhapsodies  of  falsehood  and  folly  ; and  this  which  you  so  despise  is  a true  history,  and 
contains  a true  account  of  two  celebrated  men.  The  first,  by  his  bravery  and  courage,  purchased 
immortal  fame,  and  the  name  of  the  Great  General  by  the  universal  consent  of  mankind  ; the 
other,  Diego  Garcia  de  Peredes,  was  of  noble  extraction,  and  born  in  Truxillo,  a town  of 
Estremadura,  and  was  a man  of  singular  courage,  and  of  such  mighty  strength,  that  with  one 
of  his  hands  he  could  stop  a mill-wheel  in  its  most  rapid  motion  ; and  with  his  single  force 
defended  the  passage  of  a bridge  against  a great  army.  Several  other  great  actions  are  related  in 
the  memoirs  of  his  life,  but  all  with  so  much  modesty  and  unbiassed  truth,  that  they  easily  pronounce 
him  his  own  historiographer ; and  had  they  been  written  by  any  one  else,  with  freedom  and 
impartiality,  they  might  have  eclipsed  your  Hectors,  Achilles,  and  Orlandos,  with  all  their  heroic 
exploits.” 

“That’s  a fine  jest,  faith!”  said  the  innkeeper;  “my  father  could  have  told  you  another  tale, 
sir.  Holding  a mill-wheel!  why,  is  that  such  a mighty  matter?  Odds  fish,  do  but  turn  over  a 
leaf  of  Felixmarte  there;  you  will  find  how  with  one  single  back  stroke  he  cut  five  swinging 
giants  off  by  the  middle,  as  if  they  had  been  so  many  bean-cods,  of  which  the  children  make 
little  puppet-friars  ; and  read  how,  at  another  time,  he  charged  a most  mighty  and  powerful  army 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


245 


of  above  a million  and  six  hundred  thousand  fighting  men,  all  armed  cap-a-pee,  and  routed  them 
all  like  so  many  sheep.  And  what  can  you  say  of  the  worthy  Cirongilio  of  Thrace  ? who,  as  you 
may  read  there,  going  by  water  one  day,  was  assaulted  by  a fiery  serpent  in  the  middle  of  the 
river  ; he  presently  leaped  nimbly  upon  her  back,  and,  hanging  by  her  scaly  neck,  grasped  her 
throat  fast  with  both  his  arms,  so  that  the  serpent,  finding  herself  almost  strangled,  was  forced 
to  dive  into  the  water  to  save  herself,  and  carried  the  knight,  who  would  not  quit  his  hold,  to 
the  very  bottom,  where  he  found  a stately  palace,  and  such  pleasant  gardens,  that  it  was  a wonder ; 
and  straight  the  serpent  turned  into  a very  c*d  man,  and  told  him  such  things  as  were  never  heard 
nor  spoken.  Now,  a fig  for  your  Great  Captain,  and  your  Diego  Garcia.” 

Dorothea,  hearing  this,  said  softly  to  Cardenio,  that  the  host  was  capable  of  making  a second 
part  to  Don  Quixote. 

“ I think  so  too,”  cried  Cardenio,  “ for  it  is  plain  he  believes  every  tittle  contained  in  those 
books  ; nor  can  all  the  Carthusian  friars  in  the  world  persuade  him  otherwise.” 

“ I tell  thee,  friend,”  said  the  curate,  “ there  were  never  any  such  persons  as  your  books  of 
chivalry  mention,  upon  the  face  of  the  earth;  your  Felixmarte  of  Hircania,  and  your  Cirongilio  of 
Thrace  are  all  but  chimeras,  and  fictions  of  idle  and  luxuriant  wits,  who  wrote  them  for  the  same 
reason  that  you  read  them,  because  they  had  nothing  else  to  do.” 

“ Sir,”  said  the  innkeeper,  “ you  must  angle  with  another  bait,  or  you  will  catch  no  fish  ; I 
know  what’s  what,  as  well  as  another  ; I can  tell  where  my  own  shoe  pinches  me  ; and  you  must 
not  think,  sir,  to  catch  old  birds  with  chaff.  A pleasant  jest,  faith!  that  you  should  pretend  to 
persuade  me  now  that  these  notable  books  are  lies  and  stories  ; why,  sir,  are  they  not  in  print  ? 
Are  they  not  published  according  to  order  ? licensed  by  authority  from  the  Privy  Council  ? And 
do  you  think  that  they  would  permit  so  many  untruths  to  be  printed,  and  such  a number  of 
battles  and  enchantments,  to  set  us  all  a-madding  ? ” 

“ I have  told  you  already,  friend,”  replied  the  curate,  “ that  this  is  licensed  for  our  amusement 
in  our  idle  hours  ; for  the  same  reason  that  tennis,  billiards,  chess,  and  other  recreations  are 
tolerated,  that  men  may  find  a pastime  for  those  hours  they  cannot  find  employment  for.  Neither 
could  the  Government  foresee  this  inconvenience  from  such  books  that  you  urge,  because  they 
could  not  reasonably  suppose  any  rational  person  would  believe  their  absurdities.  And  were  this 
a proper  time,  I could  say  a great  deal  in  favour  of  such  writings  ; and  how,  with  some  regulations, 
they  might  be  made  both  instructive  and  diverting.  But  I design,  upon  the  first  opportunity, 
to  communicate  my  thoughts  on  this  head  to  some  that  may  redress  it.  In  the  meantime,  honest 
landlord,  you  may  put  up  your  books,  and  believe  them  true  if  you  please,  and  much  good 
may  they  do  you.  And  I wish  you  may  never  halt  of  the  same  foot  as  your  guest,  Don 
Quixote.” 

“ There’s  no  fear  of  that,”  said  the  innkeeper,  “ for  I never  design  to  turn  knight-errant ; 
because  I find  the  customs-that  supported  the  noble  order  are  quite  out  of  doors.” 

About  the  middle  of  their  discourse  Sancho  Fanza  came  running  out  of  Don  Quixote’s 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


24b 

chamber  in  a terrible  fright,  crying  out,  “ Help,  help,  good  people!  help  my  master!  He  is  just 
now  at  it,  tooth  and  nail,  with  that  same  giant,  the  Princess  Micomicona’s  foe  : I never  saw  a 
more  dreadful  battle  in  my  born  days.  He  has  lent  him  such  a sliver,  that  whip  off  went  the 
giant’s  head,  as  round  as  a turnip.” 

“ You  are  mad,  Sancho!”  said  the  curate,  interrupted  in  his  conversation;  “is  thy  master  such 
a hero  as  to  fight  a giant  at  two  thousand  leagues’  distance  ? ” 

Upon  this  they  presently  heard  a noise  and  bustle  in  the  chamber,  and  Don  Quixote 
bawling  out,  “ Stay,  villain,  robber!  stay  ; since  I have  thee  here,  thy  scimitar  shall  but  little  avail 
thee ; ” and  with  this  they  heard  him  strike  with  his  sword,  with  all  his  force,  against  the 
walls. 

“ Good  folks,”  said  Sancho,  “ my  master  does  not  want  your  hearkening  ; why  do  not  you 
run  in  and  help  him  ? though  I believe  it.  is  after  meat  mustard,  for  sure  the  giant  is  by  this 
time  gone  to  pot,  and  giving  an  account  of  his  ill  life  ; for  I saw  his  blood  run  all  about  the 
house,  and  his  head  sailing  in  the  middle  on  it  : but  such  a head!  it  is  bigger  than  any  wine- 
skin in  Spain.” 

“ I will  be  cut  like  a cucumber,”  cries  the  innkeeper,  “ if  this  Don  Quixote  has  not  been 
hacking  my  wine-skins  that  stood  filled  at  his  bed’s  head  ; and  this  coxcomb  has  taken  the  spilt 
liquor  for  blood!”  Then  running  with  the  whole  company  into  the  room,  they  found  the  poor 
knight  in  the  most  comical  posture  imaginable. 

He  wore  on  his  head  a little  greasy  cast  night-cap  of  the  innkeeper’s  ; he  had  wrapped  one 
of  the  best  blankets  about  his  left  arm  for  a shield ; and  wielded  his  drawn  sword  in  the  right, 
laying  about  him  pell-mell,  with  now  and  then  a start  of  some  military  expression,  as  if  he 
had  been  really  engaged  with  some  giant.  But  the  best  jest  of  all,  he  was  all  this  time  fast 
asleep  ; for  the  thoughts  of  the  adventure  he  had  undertaken  had  so  wrought  on  his  imagination, 
that  his  depraved  fancy  had  in  his  sleep  represented  to  him  the  kingdom  of  Micomicon  and  the 
giant ; and,  dreaming  that  he  was  then  fighting  him,  he  assaulted  the  wine-skins  so  desperately, 
that  he  set  the  whole  chamber  afloat  with  good  wine.  The  innkeeper,  enraged  to  see  the  havoc, 
flew  at  Don  Quixote  with  his  fists  ; and  had  not  Cardenio  and  the  curate  taken  him  off,  he  had 
proved  a giant  indeed  against  the  knight.  All  this  could  not  wake  the  poor  Don,  till  the 
barber,  throwing  a bucket  of  cold  water  on  him,  wakened  him  from  his  sleep,  though  not  from 
his  dream. 

Sancho  ran  up  and  down  the  room  searching  for  the  giant’s  head,  till,  finding  his  labour 
fruitless,  “Well,  well,”  said  he,  “now  I see  plainly  that  this  house  is  haunted,  for  when  I was 
here  before,  in  this  very  room  was  I beaten  like  any  stock-fish,  but  knew  no  more  than  the 
man  in  the  moon  who  struck  me ; and  now  the  giant’s  head  that  I saw  cut  off  with  these  eyes 
is  vanished  ; and  I am  sure  1 saw  the  body  spout  blood  like  a pump.” 

“ What  a prating  and  a nonsense  does  this  fellow  keep  about  blood  and  a pump,  and  I know 
not  what!”  said  the  innkeeper  : “ I tell  you,  rascal,  it  is  my  wine-skins  that  are  slashed,  and  my 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


247 

wine  that  runs  about  the  floor  here ; and  I hope  to  see  him  that  spilt  it  swinging  on  a gibbet 
for  his  pains.” 

“Well,  well,”  said  Sancho,  “ do  not  trouble  me;  I only  tell  you  that  I cannot  find  the  giant’s 
head,  and  my  earldom  is  gone  after  it,  and  so  I am  undone  like  salt  in  water.”  And  truly 
Sancho’s  waking  dream  was  as  pleasant  as  his  master’s  when  asleep.  The  innkeeper  was  almost 
mad  to  see  the  foolish  squire  harp  so  on  the  same  string  with  his  frantic  master,  and  swore  they 
should  not  come  off  now  as  before ; that  their  chivalry  should  be  no  satisfaction  for  his  wine, 
but  that  they  should  pay  him  sauce  for  the  damage,  and  for  the  very  leathern  patches  which 
the  wounded  wine-skins  would  want. 

Don  Quixote,  in  the  meanwhile,  believing  he  had  finished  his  adventure,  and  mistaking  the 
curate,  that  held  him  by  the  arms,  for  the  Princess  Micomicona,  fell  on  his  knees  before  him, 
and  with  a respect  due  to  a royal  presence:  “Now  may  your  highness,”  said  he,  “great  and 
illustrious  princess,  live  secure,  free  from  any  further  apprehensions  from  your  conquered  enemy ; 
and  now  I am  acquitted  of  my  engagement,  since,  by  the  assistance  of  Heaven  and  the  influence 
of  her  favour  by  whom  I live  and  conquer,  your  adventure  is  so  happily  achieved.” 

“ Did  not  I tell  you  so,  gentlefolks  ? ” said  Sancho  ; “ who  is  drunk  or  mad  now  ? See  if 
my  master  has  not  already  put  the  giant  in  pickle  ? Here  are  the  bulls,  and  I am  an  earl.” 
The  whole  company  (except  the  innkeeper,  who  was  too  vexed  to  laugh)  were  like  to  split  at 
the  extravagances  of  master  and  man.  At  last  the  barber,  Cardenio,  and  the  curate  having, 
with  much  ado,  got  Don  Quixote  to  bed,  he  presently  fell  asleep,  being  heartily  tired  ; and  then 
they  left  him  to  comfort  Sancho  Panza  for  the  loss  of  the  giant’s  head ; but  it  was  no  easy 
matter  to  appease  the  innkeeper,  who  was  at  his  wit’s  end  for  the  unexpected  and  sudden  fate 
of  his  wine-skins. 

The  hostess,  in  the  meantime,  ran  up  and  down  the  house  crying  and  roaring  : “In  an  ill 
hour,”  said  she,  “ did  this  unlucky  knight-errant  come  into  my  house  ; I wish,  for  my  part,  I had 
never  seen  him,  for  he  has  been  a dear  guest  to  me.  He  and  his  man,  his  horse  and  his  ass, 
went  away  last  time  without  paying  me  a cross  for  their  supper,  their  bed,  their  litter  and 
provender ; and  all,  forsooth,  because  he  was  seeking  adventures.  What  have  I to  do 
with  his  statutes  of  chivalry  ? If  they  oblige  him  not  to  pay,  they  should  oblige  him  not  to 
eat  neither.  It  was  upon  this  score  that  the  t’other  fellow  took  away  my  good  tail  ; it  is  clear 
spoiled,  the  hair  is  all  torn  off,  and  my  husband  can  never  use  it  again.  And  now  to  come 
upon  me  again,  with  destroying  my  wine-skins,  and  spilling  my  liquor ! may  somebody  spill  his 
heart’s  blood  for  it  for  me  ! But  I will  be  paid,  so  I will,  to  the  last  maravedis,  or  I will  disown 
my  name,  and  forswear  the  mother  that  bore  me.”  Her  honest  maid,  Maritornes,  seconded  her 
fury  ; but  Master  Curate  stopped  their  mouths  by  promising  that  he  would  see  them  satisfied 
for  their  wine  and  their  skins,  but  especially  for  the  tail  which  they  kept  up  such  a clatter  about. 
Dorothea  comforted  Sancho,  assuring  him  that  whenever  it  appeared  that  his  master  had  killed 
the  giant,  and  restored  her  to  her  dominions,  he  should  be  sure  of  the  best  earldom  in  her 


248 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


disposal.  With  this  he  hackled  up  again,  and  swore  that  he  himself  had  seen  the  giant’s  head, 
by  the  same  token  that  it  had  a beard  that  reached  down  to  his  middle  ; and  if  it  could  not 
be  found  it  must  be  hid  by  witchcraft,  for  everything  went  by  enchantment  in  that  house,  as  he 
had  found  to  his  cost  when  he  was  there  before. 

Dorothea  answered  that  she  believed  him  ; and  desired  him  to  pluck  up  his  spirits,  for  all 
things  would  be  well.  All  parties  being  quieted,  the  company  retired  to  rest. 


Aa^AJi 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

CONTAINING  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  MANY  SURPRISING  ACCIDENTS  IN  THE  INN. 

IN  the  morning  the  innkeeper,  who  stood  at  the  door,  seeing  company  coming,  “ More  guests,” 
cried  he;  “a  brave,  jolly  troop,  on  my  word.  If  they  stop  here  we  may  sing,  ‘Oh,  be 
joyful !”  “ What  are  they  ?”  said  Cardenio. 

“ Four  men,”  said  the  host,  “ on  horseback,  a la  Gineta,  with  black  masks  on  their  faces 
and  armed  with,  lances  and  targets  ; a lady,  too,  all  in  white,  that  rides  single  and  masked  ; and 
two  running  footmen  ; and  they  are  just  at  the  door.” 

Hearing  this,  Dorothea  veiled  herself,  and  Cardenio  had  just  time  enough  to  step  into  the 
next  room,  where  Don  Quixote  lay,  when  the  strangers  came  into  the  yard.  The  four  horsemen, 
who  made  a very  genteel  appearance,  dismounted  and  went  to  help  down  the  lady,  whom  one 
of  them,  taking  in  his  arms,  carried  into  the  house  ; where  he  seated  her  in  a chair  by  the 
chamber-door  into  which  Cardenio  had  withdrawn.  All  this  was  done  without  discovering  their 
faces,  or  speaking  a word ; only  the  lady,  as  she  sat  down  in  the  chair,  breathed  out  a deep 
sigh,  and  let  her  arms  sink  down  in  a weak  and  fainting  posture.  The  curate,  marking  their 
odd  behaviour,  which  raised  in  him  a curiosity  to  know  who  they  were,  went  to  their  servants 
in  the  stable,  and  asked  what  their  masters  were. 

“ We  know  no  more  of  her  than  the  rest,”  answered  one  of  them  ; “ for  we  could  never  see 
her  face  all  the  time,  and  it  is  impossible  we  should  know  her  or  them  any  otherwise.  They 

32 


250 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


picked  us  up  on  the  road,  my  comrade  and  myself,  and  prevailed  with  us  to  wait  on  them  to 
Andalusia,  promising  to  pay  us  well  for  our  trouble  ; so  that,  bating  the  two  days’  travelling  in 
their  company,  they  are  utter  strangers  to  us.” 

“ Could  you  not  hear  them  name  one  another  all  this  time  ? ” asked  the  curate. 

“No,  truly,  sir,"  answered  the  footman,  “for  we  heard  them  not  speak  a syllable  all  the 
way ; the  poor  lady,  indeed,  used  to  sigh  and  grieve  so  piteously,  that  we  are  persuaded  she 
has  no  stomach  to  this  journey  : whatever  may  be  the  cause  we  know  not ; by  her  garb  she 
seems  to  be  a nun,  but  by  her  grief  and  melancholy  one  might  guess  they  are  going  to  make 
her  one,  when  perhaps  the  poor  girl  has  not  a bit  of  nun’s  flesh  about  her.” 

“Very  likely,”  said  the  curate;  and  with  that,  leaving  them,  he  returned  to  the  place  where 
he  left  Dorothea,  who,  hearing  the  masked  lady  sigh  so  frequently,  moved  by  the  natural  pity 
of  the  soft  sex,  could  not  forbear  inquiring  the  cause  of  her  sorrow. 

“ Pardon  me,  madam,”  said  she,  “ if  I beg  to  know  your  grief ; and  assure  yourself  that  my 
request  does  not  proceed  from  mere  curiosity,  but  an  earnest  inclination  to  serve  and  assist  you, 
if  your  misfortune  be  any  such  as  our  sex  is  naturally  subject  to,  and  in  the  power  of  a woman 
to  cure.” 

The  melancholy  lady  made  no  return  to  her  compliment,  and  Dorothea  pressed  her  in  vain 
with  new  reasons,  when  the  gentleman,  whom  the  footboy  signified  to  be  the  chief  of  the  company, 
interposed  : “ Madam,”  said  he,  “ do  not  trouble  yourself  to  throw  away  any  generous  offer  on  that 
ungrateful  woman,  whose  nature  cannot  return  an  obligation  ; neither  expect  any  answer  to  your 
demands,  for  her  tongue  is  a stranger  to  truth.” 

“ Sir,”  said  the  disconsolate  lady,  “ my  truth  and  honour  have  made  me  thus  miserable,  and  my 
sufferings  are  sufficient  to  prove  you  the  falsest  and  most  base  of  men.” 

Cardenio  being  only  parted  from  the  company  by  Don  Quixote’s  chamber-door,  overheard  these 
last  words  very  distinctly  ; and  immediately  cried  out,  “ Good  Heaven  ! what  do  I hear  ? what  voice 
struck  my  ear  just  now  ? ” 

The  lady,  startled  at  this  exclamation,  sprung  from  the  chair,  and  would  have  rushed  into  the 
chamber  whence  the  voice  came  ; but  the  gentleman  perceiving  it,  laid  hold  on  her,  to  prevent  her, 
which  so  disordered  the  lady  that  her  mask  fell  off,  and  discovered  an  incomparable  face,  beautiful 
as  an  angel’s,  though  very  pale,  and  strangely  discomposed,  her  eyes  eagerly  rolling  on  every  side, 
which  made  her  appear  distracted.  Dorothea  and  the  rest,  not  guessing  what  her  eyes  sought  by 
their  violent  motion,  beheld  her  with  grief  and  wonder.  She  struggled  so  hard,  and  the  gentleman 
was  so  disordered  by  beholding  her,  that  his  mask  dropped  off  too,  and  discovered  to  Dorothea,  who 
was  assisting  to  hold  the  lady,  the  face  of  her  husband,  Don  Ferdinand.  Scarce  had  she  known 
him,  when,  with  a long  and  dismal  “Oh !”  she  fell  in  a swoon,  and  would  have  reached  the  floor  with 
all  her  weight,  had  not  the  barber,  by  good  fortune,  stood  behind  and  supported  her.  The  curate 
ran  presently  to  help  her,  and  pulling  off  her  veil  to  throw  water  in  her  face,  Don  Ferdinand 
presently  knew  her,  and  was  struck  almost  as  dead  as  she  at  the  sight ; nevertheless,  he  did  not  quit 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


251 


Lucinda,  who  was  the  lady  that  struggled  so  hard  to  get  out  of  his  hands.  Cardenio  hearing 
Dorothea’s  exclamation,  and  imagining  it  to  be  Lucinda’s  voice,  flew  into  the  chamber  in  great 
disorder,  and  the  first  object  he  met  was  Don  Ferdinand  holding  Lucinda,  who  presently  knew  him. 
They  were  all  struck  dumb  with  amazement  : Dorothea  gazed  on  Don  Ferdinand  ; Don  Ferdinand 
on  Cardenio  ; and  Cardenio  and  Lucinda  on  one  another. 

At  last  Lucinda  broke  silence,  and  addressing  Don  Ferdinand,  “ Let  me  go,”  said  she  ; 
“unloose  your  hold,  my  lord  : by  the  generosity  you  should  have,  or  by  your  inhumanity,  since  it 
must  be  so,  I conjure  you,  leave  me,  that  I may  cling  like  ivy  to  my  old  support ; and  from  whom 
neither  your  threats,  nor  prayers,  nor  gifts,  nor  promises  could  ever  alienate  my  love.  Contend  not 
against  Heaven,  whose  power  alone  could  bring  me  to  my  dear  husband’s  sight,  by  such  strange  and 
unexpected  means.  You  have  a thousand  instances  to  convince  you  that  nothing  but  death  can 
make  me  ever  forget  him  : let  this,  at  least,  turn  your  love  into  rage,  which  may  prompt  you  to  end 
my  miseries  with  my  life,  here  before  my  dear  husband,  where  I shall  be  proud  to  lose  it,  since  my 
death  may  convince  him  of  my  unshaken  love  and  honour,  till  the  last  minute  of  my  life.” 

Dorothea  by  this  time  recovered,  and  finding  by  Lucinda’s  discourse  who  she  was,  and  that 
Don  Ferdinand  would  not  loose  her,  she  made  a virtue  of  necessity,  and  falling  at  his  feet,  “ My 
lord,”  cried  she,  all  bathed  in  tears,  “ if  that  beauty  which  you  hold  in  your  arms  has  not  altogether 
dazzled  your  eyes,  you  may  behold  at  your  feet  the  once  happy  but  now  miserable  Dorothea.  I am 
the  poor  and  humble  villager  whom  your  generous  bounty,  I dare  not  say  your  love,  did  condescend 
to  raise  to  the  honour  of  calling  you  her  own  : I am  she  who,  once  confined  to  peaceful  innocence, 
led  a contented  life,  till  your  importunity,  your  show  of  honour,  and  deluding  words,  charmed  me 
from  my-retreat,  and  made  me  resign  my  freedom  to  your  power.  How  I am  recompensed  may  be 
guessed  by  my  grief,  and  my  being  found  here  in  this  strange  place,  whither  I was  led,  not  through  any 
dishonourable  ends,  but  purely  by  despair  and  grief  to  be  forsaken  of  you.  It  was  at  your  desire 
I was  bound  to  you  by  the  strictest  tie ; and  whatever  you  do,  you  can  never  cease  to  be  mine. 
Consider,  my  dear  lord,  that  my  matchless  love  may  balance  the  beauty  and  nobility  of  the  person 
for  whom  you  would  forsake  me  ; she  cannot  share  your  love,  for  it  is  only  mine  ; and  Cardenio’s 
interest  in  her  will  not  admit  a partner.  It  is  easier  far,  my  lord,  to  recall  your  wandering  desires, 
and  fix  them  upon  her  that  adores  you,  than  to  draw  her  to  love  who  hates  you.  Remember  how 
you  did  solicit  my  humble  state,  and  conscious  of  my  meanness,  you  paid  a veneration  to  my 
innocence,  which,  joined  with  the  honourable  condition  of  my  yielding  to  your  desires,  pronounce 
me  free  from  ill  design  or  dishonour.  Consider  these  undeniable  truths  : have  some  regard  to  your 
honour ; remember  you  are  a Christian.  Why  should  you,  then,  make  her  life  end  so  miserably,  whose 
beginning  your  favour  made  so  happy  ? If  I must  not  expect  the  usage  and  respect  of  a wife,  let 
me  but  serve  you  as  a slave  ; so  I belong  to  you,  though  in  the  meanest  rank,  I never  shall  complain  : 
let  me  not  be  exposed  to  the  slandering  reflections  of  the  censorious  world  by  so  cruel  a separation 
from  my  lord  : afflict  not  the  declining  years  of  my  poor  parents,  whose  faithful  services  to  you  and 
yours  have  merited  a more  suitable  return.  If  you  imagine  the  current  of  your  noble  blood  would 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


252 


be  defiled  by  mixing  with  mine,  consider  how  many  noble  houses  have  run  in  such  a channel ; 
besides,  the  woman's  side  is  not  essentially  requisite  to  ennoble  descent  : but  chiefly  think  on  this, 
that  virtue  is  the  truest  nobility,  which  if  you  stain  by  basely  wronging  me,  you  bring  a greater 
blot  upon  your  family  than  marrying  me  could  cause.  In  fine,  my  lord,  you  cannot,  must  not 
disown  me  for  your  wife  : to  attest  which  truth,  I recall  your  own  words,  which  must  be  true,  if  you 
prize  yourself  for  honour,  and  that  nobility  whose  want  you  so  despise  in  me.  Witness  your  oaths 
and  vows,  witness  that  Heaven  which  you  so  oft  invoked  to  ratify  your  promises;  and  if  all  these 
should  fail,  I make  my  last  appeal  to  your  own  conscience,  whose  sting  will  always  represent  my 
wrongs  fresh  to  your  thoughts,  and  disturb  your  joys  amidst  your  greatest  pleasures. 

These,  with  many  such  arguments,  did  the  mournful  Dorothea  urge,  appearing  so  lovely  in  her 
sorrow  that  Don  Ferdinand's  friends,  as  well  as  all  the  rest,  sympathised  with  her;  Lucinda, 
particularly,  as  much  admiring  her  wit  and  beauty  as  moved  by  the  tears,  the  piercing  sighs  and 
moans  that  followed  her  entreaties ; and  she  would  have  gone  nearer  to  have  comforted  her,  had 
not  Ferdinand's  arms  that  still  held  her  prevented  it.  He  stood  full  of  confusion,  with  his  eyes 
fixed  attentively  on  Dorothea  a great  while  ; at  last,  opening  his  arms,  he  quitted  Lucinda.  “ Thou 
hast  conquered,”  cried  he,  “ charming  Dorothea;  thou  hast  conquered  me  ; it  is  impossible  to  resist 

so  many  united  truths  and  charms.  . . 

Lucinda  was  still  so  disordered  and  weak,  that  she  would  have  fallen  when  Ferdinand  quitted 

her,  had  not  Cardenio,  without  regard  to  his  safety,  leaped  forward  and  caught  her  in  his  arms, 
and  embracing  her  with  eagerness  and  joy,  “Thanks,  gracious  Heaven!”  cried  he  aloud;  “my 
dear,  my  faithful  wife!  thy  sorrows  are  now  ended;  for  where  canst  thou  rest  more  safe  than 
in  my  arms,  which  now  support  thee,  as  once  they  did  when  my  blessed  fortune  first  made  thee 


mine 


Lucinda  then  opening  her  eves,  and  finding  herself  in  the  arms  of  her  Carden, o,  without 
regard  to  ceremony,  threw  her  arms  about  his  neck,  and,  laying  her  face  to  his,  “ Yes,  said  s e, 
•■Thou  art  he,  thou  art  my  lord  indeed!  It  is  even  you  yourself,  the  right  owner  of  this  poor, 
harassed  captive.  Now,  fortune,  act  thy  worst;  nor  fears  nor  threats  shall  ever  part  me  from  the 

sole  support  and  comfort  of  my  life. 

This  sight  was  very  surprising  to  Don  Ferdinand  and  the  other  spectators.  Dorothea  per- 
ceiving by  Don  Ferdinand's  change  of  countenance,  and  laying  his  hand  to  his  sword,  that  he  was 
preparing  to  assault  Cardenio,  fell  suddenly  on  her  knees,  and,  with  an  endearing  embrace,  held  on 
Ferdinand's  legs  so  fast,  that  he  could  not  stir.  “ What  means,”  cried  she,  all  in  tears  “ the  on  y 
refuge  of  my  hope  ? See  here  thy  own  and  dearest  wife  at  thy  feet,  and  her  you  would  enjoy  in 
her  true  husband's  arms.  Think  then,  my  lord,  how  unjust  is  your  attempt  to  dissolve  t at  -not 
which  Heaven  has  tied  so  fast.  Can  you  ever  think  or  hope  for  success  in  your  design  on  her  w o 
contemning  all  dangers,  and  confirmed  in  strictest  constancy  and  honour,  before  your  face  les  at  e 
in  tears  of  joy  and  passion  in  her  true  lover's  bosom  ? For  Heaven's  sake  I entreat  you,  by  your 
own  words  1 conjure  you,  to  mitigate  your  anger,  and  permit  that  faithful  pair  to  consummate  t eir 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


253 


joys,  and  spend  their  remaining  days  in  peace.  Thus  may  you  make  it  appear  that  you  are  generous 
and  truly  noble,  giving  the  world  so  strong  a proof  that  you  have  your  reason  at  command,  and 
your  passion  in  subjection.” 

All  this  while  Cardenio,  though  he  still  held  Lucinda  in  his  arms,  had  a watchful  eye  on  Don 
Ferdinand;  resolving,  if  he  had  made  the  least  offer  to  his  prejudice,  to  make  him  repent  it  and  all 
his  party,  if  possible,  though  at  the  expense  of  his  life.  But  Don  Ferdinand’s  friend,  the  curate, 
the  barber,  and  all  the  company  (not  forgetting  honest  Sancho  Panza),  got  together  about 
Don  Ferdinand,  and  entreated  him  to  pity  the  beautiful  Dorothea’s  tears  ; that,  considering  what  she 
had  said,  the  truth  of  which  was  apparent,  it  would  be  the  highest  injustice  to  frustrate  her  lawful 
hopes  ; that  their  strange  and  wonderful  meeting  could  not  be  attributed  to  chance,  but  the  peculiar 
and  directing  providence  of  Heaven  ; that  nothing  (as  Mr.  Curate  very  well  urged)  but  death  could 
part  Cardenio  from  Lucinda  ; and  that  though  the  edge  of  his  sword  might  separate  them,  he  would 
make  them  happier  by  death  than  he  could  hope  to  be  by  surviving  ; that,  in  irrecoverable  accidents, 
a submission  to  fate,  and  a resignation  of  our  wills,  showed  not  only  the  greatest  prudence,  but  also 
the  highest  courage  and  generosity ; that  he  should  not  envy  those  happy  lovers  what  the  bounty  of 
Heaven  had  conferred  on  them,  but  that  he  should  turn  his  eyes  on  Dorothea’s  grief,  view  her  incom- 
parable beauty,  which,  with  her  true  and  unfeigned  love,  made  large  amends  for  the  meanness  of  her 
parentage  : but  principally  it  lay  upon  him,  if  he  gloried  in  the  titles  of  nobility  and  Christianity,  to 
keep  his  promise  unviolated  ; that  the  more  reasonable  part  of  mankind  could  not  otherwise  be 
satisfied,  or  have  any  esteem  for  him.  Also,  that  it  was  the  special  prerogative  of  beauty,  if 
heightened  by  virtue,  and  adorned  with  modesty,  to  lay  claim  to  any  dignity,  without  disparagement 
or  scandal  to  the  person  that  raises  it ; and  that  the  strong  dictates  of  delight  having  been  once 
indulged,  we  are  not  to  be  blamed  for  following  them  afterwards,  provided  they  be  not  unlawful.  In 
short,  to  these  reasons  they  added  so  many  enforcing  arguments,  that  Don  Ferdinand,  who  was 
truly  a gentleman,  could  no  longer  resist  reason,  but  stooped  down,  and,  embracing  Dorothea,  “ Rise, 
madam,”  said  he,  “ it  is  not  proper  that  she  should  lie  prostrate  at  my  feet  who  triumphs  over  my 
soul.  If  I have  not  hitherto  paid  you  all  the  respect  I ought,  it  was  perhaps  so  ordered  by  Heaven, 
that,  having  by  this  a stronger  conviction  of  your  constancy  and  goodness,  I may  henceforth  set  the 
greater  value  on  your  merit.  Let  the  future  respect  and  services  I shall  pay  you  plead  a pardon 
for  my  past  transgressions ; and  let  the  violent  passions  of  my  love,  that  first  made  me  yours,  be  an 
excuse  for  that  which  caused  me  to  forsake  you.  View  the  now  happy  Lucinda’s  eyes,  and  there 
read  a thousand  farther  excuses ; but  I promise  henceforth  never  to  disturb  her  quiet ; and  may 
she  live  long  and  contented  with  her  dear  Cardenio,  as  I hope  to  do  with  my  dearest  Dorothea.” 

Thus  concluding,  he  embraced  her  again  so  lovingly,  that  it  was  with  no  small  difficulty  that  he 
kept  in  his  tears,  which  he  endeavoured  to  conceal,  being  ashamed  to  discover  so  effeminate  a proof 
of  his  remorse. 

Cardenio,  Lucinda,  and  the  greatest  part  of  the  company  could  not  so  well  command  their 
passions,  but  all  wept  for  joy  : even  Sancho  Panza  himself  shed  tears,  though,  as  he  afterwards  con- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


254 

fessed,  it  was  not  for  downright  grief,  but  because  he  found  Dorothea  not  to  be  Queen  of  Micomicona, 
as  he  supposed,  and  of  whom  he  expected  so  many  favours  and  preferments.  Cardenio  and  Lucinda 
fell  at  Don  Ferdinand’s  feet,  giving  him  thanks,  with  the  strongest  expressions  which  gratitude  could 
suggest ; he  raised  them  up,  and  received  their  acknowledgments  with  much  modesty  ; then  begged 
to  be  informed  by  Dorothea  how  she  came  to  that  place.  She  related  to  him  all  she  had  told 
Cardenio,  but  with  such  a grace,  that  what  were  misfortunes  to  her  proved  an  inexpressible 
pleasure  to  those  that  heard  her  relation.  When  she  had  done,  Don  Ferdinand  told  all  that  had 
befallen  him  in  the  city,  after  he  found  the  paper  in  Lucinda’s  bosom,  which  declared  Cardenio  to  be 
her  husband  ; how  he  would  have  killed  her,  had  not  her  parents  prevented  him ; how  afterwards, 
mad  with  shame  and  anger,  he  left  the  city,  to  wait  a more  convenient  opportunity  of  revenge  ; how 
in  a short  time  he  learned  that  Lucinda  was  fled  to  a nunnery,  resolving  to  end  her  days  there,  if 
she  could  not  spend  them  with  Cardenio  ; that,  having  desired  those  three  gentlemen  to  go  with 
him,  they  went  to  the  nunnery,  and,  waiting  till  they  found  the  gate  open,  he  left  two  of  the 
gentlemen  to  secure  the  door,  while  he,  with  the  other,  entered  the  house,  where  they  found  Lucinda 
"talking  with  a nun  in  the  cloister.  They  forcibly  brought  her  thence  to  a village,  where  they 
disguised  themselves  for  their  more  convenient  flight,  which  they  more  easily  brought  about,  the 
nunnery  being  situate  in  the  fields,  distant  a good  way  from  any  town.  He  likewise  added  how 
Lucinda,  finding  herself  in  his  power,  fell  into  a swoon  ; and  that  after  she  came  to  herself,  she  con- 
tinually wept  and  sighed,  but  would  not  speak  a syllable  ; and  that,  accompanied  with  silence  only 
and  tears,  they  had  travelled  till  they  came  to  that  inn,  which  proved  to  him  as  his  arrival  at  heaven, 
having  put  a happy  conclusion  to  all  his  earthly  misfortunes. 


1 m i 1 1 1 *21 

nSf^f 

“jjfs  ii 
ij  ill 

Lucinda,  finding  herself  in  his  power,  fell  into  a swoon.”— 254. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  FAMOUS  PRINCESS  MICOMICONA  CONTINUED,  WITH  OTHER  PLEASANT 

ADVENTURES. 

THE  joy  of  the  whole  company  was  unspeakable  by  the  happy  conclusion  of  this  perplexed 
business.  Dorothea,  Cardenio,  and  Lucinda  thought  the  sudden  change  in  their  affairs  too 
surprising  to  be  real ; and  through  a disuse  of  good  fortune,  could  hardly  be  induced  to  believe  their 
happiness.  Don  Ferdinand  thanked  Heaven  a thousand  times  for  its  propitious  conduct  in  leading 
him  out  of  a labyrinth,  in  which  his  honour  and  virtue  were  like  to  have  been  lost.  The  curate,  as 
he  was  very  instrumental  in  the  general  reconciliation,  had  likewise  no  small  share  in  the  general 
joy ; and  that  no  discontent  might  sour  their  universal  satisfaction,  Cardenio  and  the  curate  engaged 
to  see  the  hostess  satisfied  for  all  the  damages  committed  by  Don  Quixote  : only  poor  Sancho 
drooped  pitifully.  He  found  his  lordship  and  his  hopes  vanished  into  smoke,  the  Princess 
Micomicona  was  changed  to  Dorothea,  and  the  giant  to  Don  Ferdinand.  Thus,  very  musty  and 
melancholy,  he  slipped  into  his  master’s  chamber,  who  had  slept  on,  and  was  just  wakened,  little 
thinking  of  what  had  happened. 

“ I hope  your  early  rising  will  do  you  no  hurt,”  said  he,  “Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure; 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


257 

but  you  may  now  sleep  on  till  doomsday  if  you  will ; nor  need  you  trouble  your  head  any  longer 
about  killing  any  giant,  or  restoring  the  princess,  for  all  that  is  done  to  your  hand.” 

“ That  is  more  than  probable,”  answered  the  knight ; “ for  I have  had  the  most  extraordinary, 
the  most  prodigious  and  bloody  battle  with  the  giant  that  I ever  had,  or  shall  have,  during  the 
whole  course  of  my  life.  Yet  with  one  cross  stroke  I laid  his  head  thwack  on  the  ground,  whence 
the  oreat  effusion  of  blood  seemed  like  a violent  stream  of  water.” 

o 

“ Of  wine,  you  mean,”  said  Sancho  ; “ for  you  must  know  (if  you  know  it  not  already) 
that  your  worship’s  dead  giant  is  a broached  wine-skin  ; and  the  blood  some  thirty  gallons  of 
tent  which  it  held  in  its  belly ; and  so  confusion  take  both  giant  and  head,  and  all  together, 
for  Sancho.” 

“ What  sayest  thou,  madman  ?”  said  the  Don  ; “ thou  art  frantic,  sure  ! ” 

“ Rise,  rise,  sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ and  see  what  fine  work  you  have  cut  out  for  yourself ; here 
is  the  wine  to  pay  for,  and  your  great  queen  is  changed  into  a private  gentlewoman,  called 
Dorothea,  with  some  other  such  odd  matters,  that  you  will  wonder  with  a vengeance.” 

“ I can  wonder  at  nothing  here,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ where,  you  may  remember,  I told  you 
all  things  ruled  by  enchantment.” 

“ I should  believe  it,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ had  my  tossing  in  a blanket  been  of  that  kind  ; but 
sure  it  was  the  likest  the  tossing  in  a blanket  of  anything  I ever  knew  in  my  life.  And  this  same 
innkeeper,  I remember  very  well,  was  one  of  those  that  tossed  me  into  the  air,  and  as  cleverly  and 
heartily  he  did  it  as  a man  could  wish,  I will  say  that  for  him  ; so  that  after  all  I begin  to  smell  a. 
rat,  and  do  perilously  suspect  that  all  our  enchantment  will  end  in  nothing  but  bruises  and  broken- 
bones.” 

“ Heaven  will  retrieve  all,”  said  the  knight  ; “ I will  therefore  dress,  and  march  to  the 
discovery  of  these  wonderful  transformations.” 

While  Sancho  made  him  ready,  the  curate  gave  Don  Ferdinand  and  the  rest  an  account  oi 
Don  Quixote’s  madness,  and  of  the  device  he  used  to  draw  him  from  the  Poor  Rock,  to  which, 
the  supposed  disdain  of  his  mistress  had  banished  him  in  imagination.  Sancho’s  adventures 
made  also  a part  of  the  story,  which  proved  very  diverting  to  the  strangers.  He  added,  that 
since  Dorothea’s  change  of  fortune  had  baulked  their  design  that  way,  some  other  trick  should  be 
found  to  decoy  him  home.  Cardenio  offered  his  service  in  this  affair,  and  that  Lucinda  should 
personate  Dorothea.  “ No,  no,”  answered  Don  Ferdinand;  “ Dorothea  shall  humour  the  jest  still*, 
if  this  honest  gentleman’s  habitation  be  not  very  far  off.” 

“ Only  two  days’  journey,”  said  the  curate. 

“ I would  ride  twice  as  far,”  said  Don  Ferdinand,  “for  the  pleasure  of  so  good  and  charitable 
an  action.” 

By  this  Don  Quixote  had  sallied  out,  armed  cap-a-pie,  Mambrino’s  helmet  (with  a great  hole  in 
it)  on  his  head  ; his  shield  on  his  left  arm,  and  with  his  right  he  leaned  on  his  lance.  His  meagre, 
yellow,  weather-beaten  face,  of  half  a league  in  length  ; the  unaccountable  medley  of  his  armour, 


258 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


, ole, her  with  his  grave  and  solemn  port,  struck  Don  Ferdinand  and  his  companions  dumb  with 
Klmiration  ; while  the  champion,  casting  his  eyes  on  Dorothea,  with  great  grav.ty  and  sohd.ty, 

broke  silence  with  these  words  : 

..  1 am  informed  by  this  my  squire,  beautiful  lady,  that  your  greatness  ts  anmh.lated,  an  your 
majesty  reduced  to  nothing  ; for  of  a queen  and  mighty  princess,  as  you  used  to  be,  you  are  become 
a private  damsel.  If  any  express  order  from  the  necromant.c  kmg,  your  father,  doub 
ability  and  success  of  my  arm  in  reinstating  you,  has  occasioned  this  change,  I must  tell  lum  that 
he  is  no  conjurer  in  these  matters,  and  does  not  know  one  half  of  his  trade ; nor  ts  he  sk.lled  m the 
revolutions  of  chivalry  : for  had  he  been  conversant  in  the  study  of  knight-errantry  as  I have 
been,  he  might  have  found  that,  in  every  age,  champions  of  less  fame  than  on  Qu.x 
Mancha  have  finished  more  desperate  adventures;  since  the  killing  of  a piti  u giant,  ow . arr°g“ 
soever  he  may  be,  is  no  such  great  achievement;  for,  not  many  hours  past,  I encountered 
myself  ; the  success  I will  not  mention,  lest  the  incredulity  of  some  people  might 
reality  ; but  ti me,  the  discoverer  of  all  things,  will  disclose  it,  when  least  expecte  . 

'■  Hold  there,”  said  the  host ; “ it  was  with  two  wine-skins,  but  no  giant,  t tat  you  oug  . 

Don  Ferdinand  silenced  the  innkeeper,  and  bid  him  by  no  means  interrupt  Don  Quixo  e, 
thus  went  on  To  conclude,  most  high  and  disinherited  lady,  if  your  father,  for  the  causes  already 

mentioned,  has  caused  this  metamorphosis  in  your  person,  believe  him  not;  £ 

on  earth  through  which  my  sword  shall  not  open  a way  ; and  assure  yourself  that  m few  days 

' it  shall  fix  on  yours  that  crown  which  is  your  lawful 

by  the  overthrow  of  your  enemy  s head,  it  shall  hx  on  yo 

inheritance  " Here  Don  Quixote  stopped,  waiting  the  princess’s  answer  ; she,  assured  of  Don 
Ferdinands  consent  to  carry  on  the  jest,  till  Don  Quixote  was  got  home, . and  assuming  a ace  o 
oravity  "Whosoever,”  answered  she,  “has  informed  you,  valorous  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure, 
;at  j have  altered  or  changed  my  condition,  has  imposed  upon  you  ; for  1 am  just  the  same  to-day 
as  yesterday.  It  is  true,  some  unexpected  but  fortunate  accidents  have  varied  some  circums  am 

of  my  fortune  much  to  my  advantage,  and  far  beyond  my  hopes ; but  I am  neither  changed  n my 

person  nor  altered  in  my  resolution  of  employing  the  force  of  your  redoubtable  and  invinc.bk  arm 
f vour  1 therefore  apply  myself  to  your  usual  generosity,  to  have  these  words  spoken 

mothers  dishonour  recalled,  and  believe  these  easy  and  infallible  means  to  redress  my  wrongs 

' > r j ni;cv  as  the  good  fortune  I now  enjoy,  has  been  the 

n„rp  effects  of  his  wisdom  and  policy,  as  uie  gw 

f • • rleeds  as  this  noble  presence  can  testify.  What  should  hinder 

**  - successful 

""  'xhTlilZoZZlZg  concluded,  Don  Quixote  turning  to  Sancho,  with  all  the  signs 
of  fury  imaginable ; “ Now  must  I tell  thee,  poor,  paltry  hang-dog,”  said  he,  “ 

rascal  in  all  Spain;  tell  me,  rogue,  scoundrel,  d.d  not  you  just  now  “°™  Now, 

U A • M a nrivate  damsel  called  Dorothea,  with  a thousand  other  absurdities 

by5aU  tTpowers  of  heaven,”  looking  up,  and  grinding  his  teeth  together,  “ 1 have  a mind  so  to 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


?59 

use  thee  as  to  make  thee  appear  a miserable  example  to  all  succeeding  squires  that  shall  dare  to 
tell  a knight-errant  a lie.” 

“ Good  your  worship,”  cried  Sancho,  “ have  patience,  I beseech  you  : mayhap  I am  mistaken 
or  so  about  my  lady  Princess  Micomicona’s  concern  there  ; but  that  the  giant’s  head  came  off  the 
wine-skin’s  shoulders,  and  that  the  blood  was  as  good  tent  as  ever  was  tipped  over  tongue,  I 
will  take  my  corporal  oath  on  it ; why,  sir,  are  not  the  skins  all  hacked  and  slashed  within 
there  at  your  bed’s  head,  and  the  wine  all  in  a puddle  in  your  chamber  ? But  you  will  guess 
at  the  meat  presently  by  the  sauce ; ‘ the  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating,’  master  ; and 
if  my  landlord  here  do  not  let  you  know  it  to  your  cost,  he  is  a very  honest  and  civil  fellow, 
that  is  all.” 

“ Sancho,”  said  the  Don,  “ I pronounce  thee  non  compos ; I therefore  pardon  thee,  and  have 
done.” 

“It  is  enough,”  said  Don  Ferdinand;  “we,  therefore,  in  pursuance  of  the  princess’s  orders, 
will  this  night  refresh  ourselves,  and  to-morrow  we  will  all  of  us  set  out  to  attend  the  lord  Don 
Quixote,  in  prosecution  of  this  important  enterprise  he  has  undertaken,  being  all  impatient  to  be 
eye-witnesses  of  his  celebrated  and  matchless  courage.” 

“ I shall  be  proud  of  the  honour  of  serving  and  waiting  upon  you,  my  good  lord,”  replied 
Don  Quixote,  “ and  reckon  myself  infinitely  obliged  by  the  favour  and  good  opinion  of  so 
honourable  a company  ; which  I shall  endeavour  to  improve  and  confirm,  though  at  the  expense 
of  the  last  drop  of  my  blood.” 

Many  other  compliments  had  passed  between  Don  Quixote  and  Don  Ferdinand,  when  the 
arrival  of  a stranger  interrupted  them.  His  dress  represented  him  as  a Christian  newly  returned 
from  Barbary  : he  was  clad  in  a short-skirted  coat  of  blue  cloth,  with  short  sleeves,  and  no  collar  ; 
his  breeches  were  of  blue  linen,  with  a cap  of  the  same  colour,  a pair  of  date-coloured  stockings, 
and  a Turkish  scimitar  hung  by  a scarf,  in  manner  of  a shoulder-belt.  There  rode  a woman  in  his 
company,  clad  in  a Moorish  dress  ; her  face  was  covered  with  a veil  ; she  had  on  a little  cap  of  gold- 
tissue,  and  a Turkish  mantle  that  reached  from  her  shoulders  to  her  feet.  The  man  was  well- 
shaped and  strong,  his  age  about  forty,  his  face  somewhat  tanned,  his  mustachios  long,  and  his 
beard  handsome.  In  short,  his  gentle  mien  and  person  were  too  distinguishable  to  let  the  gentleman 
be  hid  by  the  meanness  of  his  habit.  He  called  presently  for  a room,  and,  being  answered  that  all 
were  full,  seemed  a little  troubled  ; however,  he  went  to  the  woman  who  came  along  with  him,  and 
took  her  down  from  her  ass.  The  ladies,  being  all  surprised  at  the  oddness  of  the  Moorish  dress, 
had  the  curiosity  to  flock  about  the  stranger  ; and  Dorothea,  very  discreetly  imagining  that  both  she 
and  her  conductor  were  tired,  and  took  it  ill  that  they  could  not  have  a chamber,  “ I hope,  madam, 
you  will  bear  your  ill  fortune  patiently,”  said  she ; “ for  want  of  room  is  an  inconvenience 
incident  to  all  public  inns  ; but  if  you  please,  madam,  to  take  up  with  us,”  pointing  to  Lucinda, 
“you  may  perhaps  find  that  you  have  met  with  worse  entertainment  on  the  road  than  what  this 
place  affords.” 


, DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

200 

The  unknown  lady  made  her  no  answer,  but,  rising  up,  laid  her  hands  across  her  breast,  bowed 
her  head,  and  inclined  her  body,  as  a sign  that  she  acknowledged  the  favour.  By  her  silence  they 
conjectured  her  to  be  undoubtedly  a Moor,  and  that  she  could  not  speak  Spanish.  Her  companion 
was  now  come  back  from  the  stable,  and  told  them,  “ Ladies,  I hope  you  will  excuse  this  gentle- 
woman from  answering  any  questions,  for  she  is  very  much  a stranger  to  our  language." 

“ We  are  only,  sir,”  answered  Lucinda,  “ making  her  an  offer  which  civility  obliges  us  to  make 
to  all  strangers,  especially  of  our  own  sex,  that  she  would  make  us  happy  in  her  company  all  night, 
and  fare  as  we  do  : we  will  make  very  much  of  her,  sir,  and  she  shall  want  for  nothing  that  the 
house  affords.” 

“ I return  you  humble  thanks,  dear  madam,”  answered  the  stranger,  “ in  the  lady’s  behalf  and 
my  own  ; and  I infinitely  prize  the  favour,  which  the  present  exigence  and  the  worth  of  the  donors 
make  doubly  engaging.” 

“ Is  the  lady,  pray,  sir,  a Christian  or  a Moor  ? ” asked  Dorothea.  “ Our  charity  would  make 
us  hope  she  were  the  former ; but  by  her  attire  and  silence,  we  are  afraid  she  is  the  latter.” 

“ Outwardly,  madam,”  answers  he,  “ she  appears  and  is  a Moor,  but  in  her  heart  a zealous 
Christian,  which  her  longing  desires  of  being  baptised  have  expressly  testified.  I have  had  no 
opportunity  of  having  her  christened  since  she  left  Algiers,  which  was  her  habitation  and  native 
country ; nor  has  any  imminent  danger  of  death  as  yet  obliged  her  to  be  brought  to  the  font,  before 
she  be  better  instructed  in  the  principles  of  our  religion  ; but  I hope,  by  Heaven’s  assistance,  to  have 
her  shortly  baptised  with  all  the  decency  suiting  her  quality,  which  is  much  above  what  her  equipage 
•or  mine  seems  to  promise.” 

These  words  raised  in  them  all  a curiosity  to  be  farther  informed  who  the  Moor  and  her  con- 
-ductor  were  ; but  they  thought  it  improper  then  to  put  them  upon  any  more  particular  relation 
of  their  fortunes,  because  they  wanted  rest  and  refreshment  after  their  journey.  Dorothea, 
placing  the  lady  by  her,  begged  her  to  take  off  her  veil.  She  looked  on  her  companion,  as 
if  she  required  him  to  let  her  know  what  she  said  ; which,  when  he  had  let  her  understand 
iin  the  Arabian  tongue,  joining  his  own  request  also,  she  discovered  so  charming  a face,  that 
Dorothea  imagined  her  more  beautiful  than  Lucinda ; she,  on  the  other  hand,  fancied  her 
handsomer  than  Dorothea  ; and  most  of  the  company  believed  her  more  beautiful  than  both 
•of  them.  As  beauty  has  always  a prerogative,  or  rather  charm,  to  attract  men’s  inclinations, 
the  whole  company  dedicated  their  desires  to  serve  the  lovely  Moor.  Don  Ferdinand  asked  the 
stranger  her  name ; he  answered,  “ Lela  Zoraida  ; ” she,  hearing  him,  and  guessing  what  they 
asked,  suddenly  replied  with  great  concern,  though  very  gracefully,  “No,  no  Zoraida;  Maria, 
Maria ; ” giving  them  to  understand  that  her  name  was  Maria,  and  not  Zoraida.  These  words, 
spoken  with  so  much  eagerness,  raised  a concern  in  everybody,  the  ladies  especially,  whose 
natural  tenderness  showed  itself  by  their  tears  ; and  Lucinda,  embracing  her  very  lovingly,  “ Ay, 
ay,”  said  she,  “ Maria,  Maria ; ” which  words  the  Moorish  lady  repeated  by  way  of  answer. 
“Zoraida  macang6,”  added  she,  as  much  as  to  say,  “Not  Zoraida,  but  Maria.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


26l 

The  night  coming  on,  and  the  innkeeper,  by  order  of  Don  Ferdinand’s  friends,  having  made 
haste  to  provide  them  the  best  supper  he  could,  the  cloth  was  laid  on  a long  table,  there  being 
neither  round  nor  square  in  the  house.  Don  Quixote,  after  much  ceremony,  was  prevailed  upon 
to  sit  at  the  head  ; he  desired  the  Lady  Micomicona  to  sit  next  him  ; and  the  rest  of  the 
company  having  placed  themselves  according  to  their  rank  and  convenience,  they  ate  their  supper 
very  heartily.  Don  Quixote,  to  raise  the  diversion,  never  minded  his  meat,  but  inspired  with 
the  same  spirit  that  moved  him  to  preach  so  much  to  the  goatherds,  he  began  to  hold 
forth  in  this  manner  : — “ Certainly,  gentlemen,  if  we  rightly  consider  it,  those  who  make 

knight-errantry  their  profession  often  meet  with  most  surprising  and  stupendous  adventures. 
For  what  mortal  in  the  world,  at  this  time  entering  within  this  castle,  and  seeing  us  sit 

together  as  we  do,  will  imagine  and  believe  us  to  be  the  same  persons  which  in  reality  we  are  ? 
Who  is  there  that  can  judge  that  this  lady  by  my  side  is  the  great  queen  we  all  know  her  to 
be,  and  that  I am  that  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  so  universally  made  known  by  fame  ? It 
is  then  no  longer  to  be  doubted  but  that  this  exercise  and  profession  surpasses  all  others  that 
have  been  invented  by  man,  and  is  so  much  the  more  honourable  as  it  is  more  exposed  to 
dangers.  Let  none  presume  to  tell  me  that  the  pen  is  preferable  to  the  sword  ; for  be  they 
who  they  will,  I shall  tell  them  they  know  not  what  they  say  : for  the  reason  they  give,  and  on 
which  chiefly  they  rely,  is,  that  the  labour  of  the  mind  exceeds  that  of  the  body,  and  that  the 
exercise  of  arms  depends  wholly  on  the  body,  as  if  the  use  of  them  were  the  business  of  porters, 
which  requires  nothing  but  much  strength  ; or,  as  if  this,  which  we  who  profess  it  call  chivalry, 
did  not  include  the  acts  of  fortitude,  which  depend  very  much  upon  the  understanding  ; or 
else,  as  if  that  warrior,  who  commands  an  army  or  defends  a city  besieged,  did  not  labour 
as  much  with  the  mind  as  with  the  body  If  this  be  not  so,  let  experience  teach  us  whether 
it  be  possible  by  bodily  strength  to  discover  or  guess  the  intentions  of  an  enemy.  The  forming 
designs,  the  laying  of  stratagems,  overcoming  of  difficulties,  and  shunning  of  dangers  are  all  works 
of  the  understanding,  wherein  the  body  has  no  share.  It  being  therefore  evident  that  the  exercise 
of  arms  requires  the  help  of  the  mind  as  well  as  learning,  let  us  see,  in  the  next  place,  whether 
the  scholar  or  the  soldier’s  mind  undergoes  the  greatest  labour.  Now  this  may  be  the  better 

known  by  regarding  the  end  each  of  them  aims  at ; for  that  intention  is  to  be  most  valued  which 

makes  the  noblest  end  its  object.  The  scope  and  end  of  learning,  I mean  human  learning  (in  this 
place  I speak  not  of  divinity,  whose  aim  is  to  guide  souls  to  heaven,  for  no  other  can  equal  a design 
so  infinite  as  that),  is  to  give  a perfection  to  distributive  justice,  bestowing  upon  every  one  his  due. 
and  to  procure  and  cause  good  laws  to  be  observed  ; an  end  really  generous,  great,  and  worthy  of 
high  commendation  ; but  yet  not  equal  to  that  which  knight-errantry  tends  to,  whose  object  and  end 
is  peace,  which  is  the  greatest  blessing  man  can  wish  for  in  this  life.  And  therefore  the  first  good 
news  that  the  world  received  was  that  the  angels  brought  in  the  night,  which  was  the  beginning 
of  our  day,  when  they  sang  in  the  air,  * Glory  to  God  on  high,  peace  upon  earth,  and  to  men 
good-will.’  And  the  only  manner  of  salutation  taught  by  the  best  Master  in  heaven  or  upon 


262 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


■earth,  to  his  friends  and  followers,  was,  that  entering  any  house  they  should  say,  ‘Peace  be  to 
this  house.’  And  at  other  times  he  said  to  them,  ‘ My  peace  I give  to  you,  my  peace  I leave 
to  you,  peace  be  among  you  : ’ a jewel  and  a legacy  worthy  of  such  a donor — a jewel  so  precious, 
that  without  it  there  can  be  no  happiness  either  in  earth  or  heaven.  This  peace  is  the  true  end 
of  war  ; for  arms  and  war  are  one  and  the  same  thing.  Allowing,  then,  this  truth,  that  the  end 
of  war  is  peace,  and  that  in  this  it  excels  the  end  of  learning,  let  us  now  weigh  the  bodily 
labours  the  scholar  undergoes  against  those  the  warrior  suffers,  and  then  see  which  are  neatest.” 

The  method  and  language  Don  Quixote  used  in  delivering  himself  were  such,  that  none  of 
his  hearers  at  that  time  looked  upon  him  as  a madman.  But,  on  the  contrary,  most  of  them  being 
gentlemen,  to  whom  the  use  of  arms  properly  appertains,  they  gave  him  a willing  attention ; and 
he  proceeded  in  this  manner  : — “ These,  then,  I say,  are  the  sufferings  and  hardships  a scholar 
endures.  First,  poverty  (not  that  they  are  all  poor,  but  to  urge  the  worst  that  may  be  in  this 
case) ; and  having  said  he  endures  poverty,  methinks  nothing  more  need  be  urged  to  express 
his  misery ; for  he  that  is  poor  enjoys  no  happiness,  but  labours  under  this  poverty  in  all  its 
parts,  at  one  time  in  hunger,  at  another  in  cold,  another  in  nakedness,  and  sometimes  in  all  of 
them  together,  yet  his  poverty  is  not  so  great  but  still  he  eats,  though  it  be  later  than  the 
usual  hour,  and  of  the  scraps  of  the  rich,  or,  which  is  the  greatest  of  a scholar’s  misfortunes,  what 
is  called  among  them  going  a-sopping  ; neither  can  the  scholar  miss  of  somebody’s  stove  or 
fireside  to  sit  by,  where,  though  he  be  not  thoroughly  heated,  yet  he  may  gather  warmth,  and 
at  last  sleep  away  the  night  under  a roof.  I will  not  touch  upon  other  less  material  circumstances, 
as  the  want  of  linen  and  scarcity  of  shoes,  thinness  and  baldness  of  their  clothes,  and  their  surfeiting 
when  good  fortune  throws  a feast  in  their  way  : this  is  the  difficult  and  uncouth  path  they  tread, 
often  stumbling  and  falling,  yet  rising  again  and  pushing  on,  till  they  attain  the  preferment  they 
aim  at ; whither  being  arrived,  we  have  seen  many  of  them,  who,  having  been  carried  by  a 
fortunate  gale  through  all  these  quicksands,  from  a chair  govern  the  world ; their  hunger  being 
changed  into  satiety,  their  cold  into  comfortable  warmth,  their  nakedness  into  magnificence  of 
apparel,  and  the  mats  they  used  to  lie  upon  into  stately  beds  of  costly  silks  and  softest  linen — a 
reward  due  to  their  virtue.  But  yet  their  sufferings  being  compared  to  those  the  soldier  endures, 
appear  much  inferior,  as  I shall  in  the  next  place  make  out.” 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

A CONTINUATION  OF  DON  QUIXOTE’S  CURIOUS  DISCOURSE  UPON  ARMS  AND  LEARNING. 

SINCE,  speaking  of  the  scholar,  we  began  with  his  poverty,  and  its  several  parts,”  continued 
Don  Quixote,  “ let  us  now  observe  whether  the  soldier  be  any  richer  than  he ; and  we 
shall  find  that  poverty  itself  is  not  poorer  ; for  he  depends  on  his  miserable  pay,  which  he  receives 
but  seldom,  or  perhaps  never ; or  else  on  that  he  makes  by  marauding,  with  the  hazard  of  his 
life,  and  trouble  of  his  conscience.  Such  is  sometimes  his  want  of  apparel,  that  a slashed  buff 
coat  is  all  his  holiday  raiment  and  shirt  ; and  in  the  depth  of  winter,  being  in  the  open  field, 
he  has  nothing  to  cherish  him  against  the  sharpness  of  the  season  but  the  breath  of  his  mouth, 
which,  issuing  from  an  empty  place,  I am  persuaded  is  itself  cold,  though  contrary  to  the 
rules  of  nature.  But  now  see  how  he  expects  night  to  make  amends  for  all  these  hardships  in 
the  bed  prepared  for  him,  which,  unless  it  be  his  own  fault,  never  proves  too  narrow ; for  he  may 
freely  lay  out  as  much  of  the  ground  as  he  pleases,  and  tumble  to  his  content  without  danger  of 
losing  the  sheets.  But,  above  all,  when  the  day  shall  come  wherein  he  is  to  put  in  practice  the 
exercise  of  his  profession,  and  strive  to  gain  some  new  degree ; when  the  day  of  battle  shall 
come,  then,  as  a mark  of  honour,  shall  his  head  be  dignified  with  a cap  made  of  lint,  to  stop 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


264 

a hole  made  by  a bullet,  or  be  perhaps  carried  off  maimed,  at  the  expense  of  a leg  or  arm. 

And  if  this  do  not  happen,  but  that  merciful  Heaven  preserve  his  life  and  limbs,  it  may  fall  out 

that  he  shall  remain  as  poor  as  before,  and  must  run  through  many  encounters  and  battles,  nay, 
always  come  off  victorious,  to  obtain  some  little  preferment ; and  these  miracles,  too,  are  rare.  But, 
I pray  tell  me,  gentlemen,  if  ever  you  made  it  your  observation,  how  few  are  those  who  obtain  due 
rewards  in  war,  in  comparison  of  those  numbers  that  perish  ? Doubtless  you  will  answer  that  there 
is  no  parity  between  them — that  the  dead  cannot  be  reckoned  up,  whereas  those  who  live  and  are 
rewarded  may  be  numbered  with  three  figures.  It  is  quite  otherwise  with  scholars — not  only  those 
who  follow  the  law,  but  others  also,  who  all,  either  by  hook  or  by  crook,  get  a livelihood — so  that 

though  the  soldier’s  sufferings  be  much  greater,  yet  his  reward  is  much  less.  To  this  it  may  be 

answered,  that  it  is  easier  to  reward  two  thousand  scholars  than  thirty  thousand  soldiers,  because 
the  former  are  recompensed  at  the  expense  of  the  public,  by  giving  them  employments,  which  of 
necessity  must  be  allowed  on  those  of  their  profession,  but  the  latter  cannot  be  gratified  otherwise 
than  at  the  cost  of  the  master  that  employs  them  ; yet  this  very  difficulty  makes  good  my 
argument.  But  let  us  lay  this  matter  aside  as  a point  difficult  to  be  decided,  and  let  us  return 
to  the  preference  due  to  arms  above  learning,  a subject  as  yet  in  debate,  each  party  bringing 
strong  reasons  to  make  out  their  pretensions.  Among  others,  learning  urges  that  without  it 
warfare  itself  could  not  subsist ; because  war,  as  other  things,  has  its  laws,  and  is  governed  by 
them,  and  laws  are  the  province  of  learning  and  scholars.  To  this  objection  the  soldiers  make 
answer,  that  without  them  the  laws  cannot  be  maintained,  for  it  is  by  arms  that  commonwealths 
are  defended,  kingdoms  supported,  cities  secured,  the  highway  made  safe,  and  the  sea  delivered 
from  pirates.  In  short,  were  it  not  for  them,  commonwealths,  kingdoms,  monarchies,  cities,  the 
roads  by  land,  and  the  waters  of  the  sea  would  be  subject  to  the  ravages  and  confusion  that  attend 
war  while  it  lasts,  and  is  at  liberty  to  make  use  of  its  unbounded  power  and  prerogative.  Besides, 
it  is  past  all  controversy,  that  what  costs  dearest  is,  and  ought  to  be,  most  valued.  Now  for  a man 
to  attain  to  an  eminent  degree  of  learning  costs  him  time,  watching,  hunger,  nakedness,  dizziness 
in  the  head,  weakness  in  the  stomach,  and  other  inconveniences  which  are  the  consequences  of 
these,  of  which  I have  already  in  part  made  mention.  But  the  rising  gradually  to  be  a good 
soldier  is  purchased  at  the  whole  expense  of  all  that  is  required  for  learning,  and  that  in  so 
surpassing  a degree  that  there  is  no  comparison  betwixt  them ; because  he  is  every  moment  in 
danger  of  his  life.  To  what  danger  or  distress  can  a scholar  be  reduced  equal  to  that  of  a soldier, 
who,  being  besieged  in  some  strong  place,  and  at  his  post  or  upon  guard  in  some  ravelin  or 
bastion,  perceives  the  enemy  carrying  on  a mine  under  him,  and  yet  must  upon  no  account 
remove  from  thence,  or  shun  the  danger  which  threatens  him  so  near  ? All  he  can  do  is  to  give 
notice  to  his  commander  that  he  may  countermine,  but  must  himself  stand  still,  fearing  and 
expecting  when  on  a sudden  he  shall  soar  to  the  clouds  without  wings,  and  be  again  cast  down 
headlong  against  his  will.  If  this  danger  seem  inconsiderable,  let  us  see  whether  that  be  not 
greater  when  two  galleys  shock  one  another  with  their  prows  in  the  midst  of  the  spacious  sea. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


265 


When  they  have  thus  grappled,  and  are  clinging  together,  the  soldier  is  confined  to  the  narrow 
beak,  being  a board  not  above  two  feet  wide ; and  yet,  though  he  sees  before  him  so  many 
ministers  of  death  threatening,  as  there  are  pieces  of  cannon  on  the  other  side  pointing  against 
him,  and  not  half  a pike’s  length  from  his  body  ; and  being  sensible  that  the  first  slip  of  his 
feet  sends  him  to  the  bottom  of  Neptune’s  dominions,  still,  for  all  this,  inspired  by  honour, 
with  an  undaunted  heart,  he  stands  a mark  to  so  much  fire,  and  endeavours  to  make  his  way 
by  that  narrow  passage  into  the  enemy’s  vessel.  But  what  is  most  to  be  admired  is,  that  no 
sooner  one  falls,  where  he  shall  never  rise  till  the  end  of  the  world,  than  another  steps  into  the 
same  place ; and  if  he  also  drops  into  the  sea,  which  lies  in  wait  for  him  like  an  enemy,  another 
and  after  him  another,  still  fills  up  the  place,  without  suffering  any  interval  of  time  to  separate 
their  deaths — a resolution  and  boldness  scarce  to  be  paralleled  in  any  other  trials  of  war. 
Blessed  be  those  happy  ages  that  were  strangers  to  the  dreadful  fury  of  these  instruments  of 
artillery,  by  which  means  very  often  a cowardly,  base  hand  takes  away  the  life  of  the  bravest 
gentleman,  and  in  the  midst  of  that  vigour  and  resolution  which  animates  and  inflames  the  bold, 
a chance  bullet  (shot  perhaps  by  one  that  fled,  and  was  frighted  at  the  very  flash  the  mischievous 
piece  gave  when  it  went  off),  coming  nobody  knows  how,  or  from  whence,  in  a moment  puts  a 
period  to  the  brave  designs  and  the  life  of  one  that  deserved  to  have  survived  many  years.  This 
considered,  I could  almost  say  I am  sorry  at  my  heart  for  having  taken  upon  me  this  profession  of 
a knight-errant  in  so  detestable  an  age  ; for  though  no  danger  daunts  me,  yet  it  affects  me  to 
think  whether  powder  and  lead  may  not  deprive  me  of  the  opportunity  of  becoming  famous,  and 
making  myself  known  throughout  the  world  by  the  strength  of  my  arm  and  dint  of  my  sword. 
But  let  Heaven  order  matters  as  it  pleases;  for  if  I compass  my  designs,  I shall  be  so  much  the 
more  honoured  by  how  much  the  dangers  I have  exposed  myself  to  are  greater  than  those  the 
knights-errant  of  former  ages  underwent.” 

All  this  long  preamble  Don  Quixote  made,  whilst  the  company  supped,  never  minding  to  eat  a 
mouthful,  though  Sancho  Panza  had  several  times  advised  him  to  mind  his  meat,  telling  him  there 
would  be  time  enough  afterwards  to  talk  as  he  thought  fit.  Those  who  heard  him  were  afresh 
moved  with  compassion  to  see  a man  who  seemed,  in  all  other  respects,  to  have  a sound  judgment 
and  clear  understanding,  so  absolutely  mad  and  distracted  when  any  mention  was  made  of 
knight-errantry.  The  curate  told  him  he  was  much  in  the  right  in  all  he  had  said  for  the 
honour  of  arms ; and  that  he,  though  a scholar  and  a graduate,  was  of  the  same  opinion.  Supper 
being  ended  and  the  cloth  taken  away,  whilst  the  innkeeper,  his  wife,  his  daughter,  and  Maritornes 
fitted  up  Don  Quixote’s  loft  for  the  ladies,  Don  Ferdinand  entreated  the  slave  to  give  them  an 
account  of  his  life  ; conscious  the  relation  could  not  choose  but  be  very  delightful  and  surprising,  as 
might  be  guessed  by  his  coming  with  Zoraida.  The  slave  answered  he  would  most  willingly  comply 
with  their  desires,  and  that  he  only  feared  the  relation  would  not  give  them  all  the  satisfaction 
he  could  wish  ; but  that,  however,  rather  than  disobey,  he  would  do  it  as  well  as  he  could.  I he 
curate  and  all  the  company  thanked  him,  and  made  fresh  instances  to  the  same  effect.  Seeing 


34 


266 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


himself  courted  by  so  many,  “ There  is  no  need  of  entreaties,”  said  he,  “ for  what  you  may  com- 
mand ; therefore,”  continued  he,  “ give  me  your  attention,  and  you  shall  hear  a true  relation,  perhaps 
not  to  be  paralleled  by  those  fabulous  stories  which  are  composed  with  much  art  and  study-’’  This 
caused  all  the  company  to  seat  themselves,  and  observe  a very  strict  silence  ; and  then,  with  an 
agreeable  and  sedate  voice,  he  began  in  the  manner  following. 


CHAPTER  XXXV. 

WHERE  THE  CAPTIVE  RELATES  HIS  LIFE  AND  ADVENTURES. 

IN  the  mountains  of  Leon  my  family  had  its  first  original,  and  was  more  kindly  dealt  with  by 
nature  than  by  fortune,  though  my  father  might  pass  for  rich  among  the  inhabitants  of  those 
parts,  who  are  but  poorly  provided  for.  To  say  truth,  he  had  been  so,  had  he  had  as  much 
industry  to  preserve  as  he  had  inclination  to  dissipate  his  income  ; but  he  had  been  a soldier, 
and  the  years  of  his  youth  spent  in  that  employment  had  left  him  in  his  old  age  a propensity  to 
spend,  under  the  name  of  liberality.  War  is  a school  where  the  covetous  grow  free,  and  the  free 
prodigal  : to  see  a soldier  a miser  is  a kind  of  prodigy  which  happens  but  seldom.  My  father  was 
far  from  being  one  of  them  ; for  he  passed  the  bounds  of  liberality,  and  came  very  near  the 
excesses  of  prodigality — a thing  which  cannot  suit  well  with  a married  life,  where  the  children 
ought  to  succeed  to  the  estate  as  well  as  name  of  the  family.  We  were  three  of  us,  all  at  man’s 
estate  ; and  my  father,  finding  that  the  only  way  (as  he  said)  to  curb  his  squandering  inclination 
was  to  dispossess  himself  of  that  which  maintained  it,  his  estate  (without  which  Alexander  himself 
must  have  been  put  to  it),  he  called  us  one  day  all  three  to  him  in  his  chamber,  and  spoke  to  us  in 
the  following  manner  : — 

“ ‘ My  sons,  to  persuade  you  that  I love  you,  I need  only  tell  you  I am  your  father,  and  you  my 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


>68 


children  ; and  on  the  other  side,  you  have  reason  to  think  me  unkind,  considering  how  careless  I 
am  in  preserving  what  should  one  day  be  yours ; but  to  convince  you,  however,  that  I have  the 
feelings  of  a parent,  I have  taken  a resolution,  which  I have  well  weighed  and  considered  for  many 
days.  You  are  all  now  of  an  age  to  choose  the  kind  of  life  you  each  of  you  incline  to  ; or,  at  least, 
to  enter  upon  some  employment  that  may  one  day  procure  you  both  honour  and  profit : therefore  I 
design  to  divide  all  I have  into  four  parts,  of  which  I will  give  three  among  you,  and  retain  the 
fourth  for  myself,  to  maintain  me  in  my  old  age,  as  long  as  it  shall  please  Heaven  to  continue  me  in 
this  life.  After  that  each  of  you  shall  have  received  his  part,  I could  wish  you  would  follow  one  of 
the  employments  I shall  mention  to  you,  every  one  as  he  finds  himself  inclined.  There  is  a 
proverb  in  our  tongue,  which  I take  to  contain  a great  deal  of  truth,  as  generally  those  sorts  of 
sayings  do,  being  short  sentences  framed  upon  observation  and  long  experience.  This  proverb 
runs  thus  : “ Either  the  church,  the  sea,  or  the  court;”  as  if  it  should  plainly  say,  that  whosoever 
desires  to  thrive  must  follow  one  of  these  three;  either  be  a churchman,  or  a merchant  and  try  his 
fortune  at  sea,  or  enter  into  the  service  of  his  prince  in  the  court : for  another  proverb  says  that 
« Kings’  chaff  is  better  than  other  men’s  corn.”  I say  this,  because  I would  have  one  of  you  follow 
his  studies,  another  I desire  should  be  a merchant,  and  the  third  should  serve  the  king  in  his  wars ; 
because  it  is  a thing  of  some  difficulty  to  get  an  entrance  at  court ; and  though  war  does  not  imme- 
diately procure  riches,  yet  it  seldom  fails  of  giving  honour  and  reputation.  Within  eight  days’  time 
I will  give  each  of  you  your  portion,  and  not  wrong  you  of  a farthing  of  it,  as  you  shall  see  by 
experience.  Now,  therefore,  tell  me  if  you  are  resolved  to  follow  my  advice  about  your  settling  in 

the  world.’  And  turning  to  me,  as  the  eldest,  he  bid  me  answer  first. 

“ I told  him  that  he  ought  not  upon  our  account  to  divide  or  lessen  his  estate,  or  way  of  living ; 
that  we  were  young  men,  and  could  shift  in  the  world  ; and  at  last  I concluded  that  for  my  part  I 
would  be  a soldier,  and  serve  God  and  the  king  in  that  honourable  profession.  My  second  brother 
made  the  same  regardful  offer,  and  chose  to  go  to  the  Indies  ; resolving  to  lay  out  in  goods  the 
share  that  should  be  given  him  here.  The  youngest,  and,  I believe,  the  wisest  of  us  all,  said  he 
would  be  a churchman  ; and  in  order  to  it,  go  to  Salamanca,  and  there  finish  his  studies.  After 
this  my  father  embraced  us  all  three,  and  in  a few  days  performed  what  he  had  promised  ; and, 
as  I remember,  it  was  three  thousand  ducats  a-piece,  which  he  gave  us  in  money  ; for  we  had  an 
uncle  who  bought  all  the  estate,  and  paid  for  it  in  ready  money,  that  it  might  not  go  out  of  the 
family.  A little  after  we  all  took  leave  of  my  father  ; and  at  parting  I could  not  forbear  thinking 
it  a kind  of  inhumanity  to  leave  the  old  gentleman  in  so  strait  a condition  : I prevailed  with  him 
therefore  to  accept  of  two  thousand  of  my  three,  the  remainder  being  sufficient  to  make  up  a 
soldier’s  equipage.  My  example  worked  upon  my  other  brothers,  and  they  each  of  them  presented 
him  with  a thousand  ducats;  so  that  my  father  remained  with  four  thousand  ducats  in  ready 
money,  and  three  thousand  more  in  land,  which  he  chose  to  keep  and  not  sell  outright.  To  be 
short,  we  took  our  leave  of  my  father  and  the  uncle  I have  mentioned,  not  without  much  grief 
and  tears  on  all  sides  ; they  particularly  recommending  us  to  let  them  know  by  all  opportunities 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


269 


our  good  or  ill  fortune.  We  promised  to  do  so,  and  having  received  the  blessing  of  our  old  father, 
one  of  us  went  straight  to  Salamanca,  the  other  to  Seville,  and  I to  Alicant,  where  I was  informed  of 
a Genoese  ship,  which  was  loading  wood  for  Genoa. 

“ This  year  makes  two-and-twenty  since  I first  left  my  father’s  house,  and  in  all  that  time, 
though  I have  writ  several  letters,  I have  not  had  the  least  news,  either  of  him  or  of  my  brothers. 
And  now  I will  relate,  in  few  words,  my  own  adventures  in  all  that  course  of  years.  I took  ship- 
ping at  Alicant,  arrived  safe  and  with  a good  passage  at  Genoa  ; from  thence  I went  to  Milan, 
where  I bought  my  equipage,  resolving  to  go  and  enter  myself  in  the  army  of  Piedmont ; but 
being  come  as  far  as  Alexandria  de  la  Paille,  I was  informed  that  the  great  Duke  of  Alva  was 
passing  into  Flanders  with  an  army  : this  made  me  alter  my  first  resolution.  I followed  him, 
and  was  present  at  all  his  engagements,  as  well  as  at  the  deaths  of  the  Counts  Egmont  and  Horne; 
and  at  last  I had  a pair  of  colours  under  a famous  captain  of  Guadalajara,  whose  name  was  Diego 
de  Urbina.  Some  time  after  my  arrival  in  Flanders  there  came  news  of  the  league  concluded  by 
Pope  Pius  V.  of  happy  memory,  injunction  with  Spain,  against  the  common  enemy,  the  Turk,  who 
at  that  time  had  taken  the  island  of  Cyprus  from  the  Venetians  ; which  was  an  unfortunate  and 
lamentable  loss  to  Christendom.  It  was  also  certain  that  the  general  of  this  holy  league  was  the 
most  serene  Don  Juan  of  Austria,  natural  brother  to  our  good  King  Don  Philip.  The  great  fame 
of  the  preparations  for  this  war  excited  in  me  a vehement  desire  of  being  present  at  the  engage- 
ment which  was  expected  to  follow  these  preparations  ; and  although  I had  certain  assurance,  and, 
as  it  were,  an  earnest  of  my  being  advanced  to  be  a captain  upon  the  first  vacancy,  yet  I resolved 
to  leave  all  those  expectations,  and  return,  as  I did,  to  Italy.  My  good  fortune  was  such,  that  I 
arrived  just  about  the  same  time  that  Don  Juan  of  Austria  landed  at  Genoa,  in  order  to  go  to 
Naples,  and  join  the  Venetian  fleet,  as  he  did  at  Messina.  In  short,  I was  at  that  great  action 
of  the  battle  of  Lepanto,  being  a captain  of  foot,  to  which  post  my  good  fortune,  more  than  my 
desert,  had  now  advanced  me  ; and  that  day,  which  was  so  happy  to  all  Christendom,  because 
the  world  was  then  disabused  of  the  error  they  had  entertained,  that  the  Turk  was  invincible 
by  sea — that  day,  I say,  in  which  the  pride  of  the  Ottomans  was  first  broke,  and  which  was  so 
happy  to  all  Christians,  even  to  those  who  died  in  the  fight— who  were  more  so  than  those  who 
remained  alive  and  conquerors— I alone  was  the  unhappy  man  ; since,  instead  of  a naval  crown, 
which  I might  have  hoped  for  in  the  time  of  the  Romans,  I found  myself  that  very  night  a slave, 
with  irons  on  my  feet,  and  manacles  on  my  hands.  The  thing  happened  thus  : Vehali,  King  of 
Algiers,  a brave  and  bold  pirate,  having  boarded  and  taken  the  Capitana  galley  of  Malta,  in  which 
only  three  knights  were  left  alive,  and  those  desperately  wounded,  the  galley  of  Joan  Andrea 
Doria  bore  up  to  succour  them  ; in  this  galley  I was  embarked  with  my  companv,  and,  doing  my 
duty  on  this  occasion,  I leaped  into  the  enemy’s  galley,  which,  getting  loose  from  ours,  that  in- 
tended to  board  the  Algerine,  my  soldiers  were  hindered  from  following  me,  and  I remained  alone 
among  a great  number  of  enemies  ; whom  not  being  able  to  resist,  I was  taken  after  having 
received  several  wounds  ; and  as  you  have  heard  already,  Vehali  having  escaped  with  all  his 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


2 70 

squadron,  I found  myself  his  prisoner  ; and  was  the  only  afflicted  man  among  so  many  joyful 
ones,  and  the  only  captive  among  so  many  free;  for  on  that  day  above  15,000  Christians,  who 
rowed  in  the  Turkish  galleys,  obtained  their  long-wished-for  liberty.  I was  carried  to  Constan- 
tinople, where  the  Grand  Seignor  Selim  made  Vehali,  my  master,  general  of  the  sea,  he  having 
behaved  himself  very  well  in  the  battle,  and  brought  away  with  him  the  great  flag  of  the  order  of 
Malta,  as  a proof  of  his  valour. 

“The  second  year  of  my  captivity  I was  a slave  in  the  Capitana  galley  at  Navarino  ; and  1 
took  notice  of  the  Christians’  fault,  in  letting  slip  the  opportunity  they  had  of  taking  the  whole 
Turkish  fleet  in  that  port ; and  all  the  Janisaries  and  Algerine  pirates  did  so  expect  to  be  attacked, 
that  they  had  made  all  in  readiness  to  escape  on  shore  without  fighting,  so  great  was  the  terror 
they  had  of  our  fleet ; but  it  pleased  God  to  order  it  otherwise,  not  by  any  fault  of  the  Christian 
general,  but  for  the  sins  of  Christendom,  and  because  it  is  his  will  we  should  always  have  some 
enemies  to  chastise  us.  Vehali  made  his  way  to  Modon,  which  is  an  island  not  far  from  Navarino, 
and  there  landing  his  men,  fortified  the  entrance  of  the  harbour,  remaining  in  safety  there  till  Don 
Juan  was  forced  to  return  home  with  his  fleet.  In  this  expedition  the  galley  called  La  Presa,  of 
which  Barbarossa’s  own  son  was  captain,  was  taken  by  the  admiral  galley  of  Naples,  called  the 
Wolf,  which  was  commanded  by  that  thunder-bolt  of  war,  that  father  of  the  soldiers,  that  happy 
and  never-conquered  captain,  Don  Alvaro  de  Bacan,  Marquis  of  Santa  Cruz  ; and  I cannot  omit 
the  manner  of  taking  this  galley.  The  son  of  Barbarossa  was  very  cruel,  and  used  his  slaves  with 
great  inhumanity.  They  perceiving  that  the  Wolf  galley  gained  upon  them  in  the  chase,  all  of  a 
sudden  laid  by  their  oars,  and  seizing  on  their  commander,  as  he  was  walking  between  them  on 
the  deck,  and  calling  to  them  to  row  hard,  they  passed  him  on  from  hand  to  hand  to  one  another, 
from  one  end  of  the  galley  to  the  other,  and  gave  him  such  blows  in  the  handling  him,  that  before 
he  got  back  to  the  main-mast,  his  soul  had  left  his  body.  This,  as  I said,  was  the  effect  of  his 
cruelty  and  their  hatred. 

“After  this  we  returned  to  Constantinople;  and  the  next  year,  which  was  1573,  news  came  that 
Don  Juan  of  Austria  had  taken  Tunis  and  its  kingdom  from  the  Turks,  and  given  the  possession 
of  it  to  Muley  Hamid,  having  thereby  defeated  all  the  hopes  of  reigning  of  Muley  Hamida,  one 
of  the  cruellest  and  withal  one  of  the  bravest  Moors  in  the  world.  The  Grand  Seignor  was 
troubled  at  this  loss,  and,  using  his  wonted  artifices  with  the  Christians,  he  struck  up  a peace  with 
the  Venetians,  who  were  much  more  desirous  than  he  of  it. 

“The  year  after,  which  was  1574,  he  attacked  the  Goletta,  and  the  fort  which  Don  Juan  had 
begun,  but  not  above  half  finished,  before  Tunis.  All  this  while  I was  a galley  slave,  without  any 
hopes  of  liberty ; at  least,  I could  not  promise  myself  to  obtain  it  by  way  of  ransom  ; for  I was 
resolved  not  to  write  my  father  the  news  of  my  misfortune.  La  Goletta  and  the  fort  were  both 
taken,  after  some  resistance  ; the  Turkish  army  consisting  of  75,000  Turks  in  pay,  and  above 
400,000  Moors  and  Arabs  out  of  all  Africa  near  the  sea,  with  such  provisions  of  war  of  all 
kinds,  and  so  many  pioneers,  that  they  might  have  covered  the  Goletta  and  the  fort  with  earth  by 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


271 


handfuls.  The  Goletta  was  first  taken,  though  always  before  reputed  impregnable  ; and  it  was  not 
lost  by  any  fault  of  its  defenders,  who  did  all  that  could  be  expected  from  them  ; but  because  it 
was  found  by  experience,  that  it  was  practicable  to  make  trenches  in  that  sandy  soil,  which  was 
found  to  have  water  under  it  within  two  feet ; though  the  Turks  sunk  above  two  yards  and  found 
none.  However,  by  filling  sacks  with  sand,  and  laying  them  on  one  another,  they  raised  them 
so  high,  that  they  over-topped  and  commanded  the  fort,  in  which  none  could  be  safe,  nor  show 
themselves  upon  the  walls.  It  has  been  the  opinion  of  most  men,  that  we  did  ill  to  shut  ourselves 
up  in  the  Goletta ; and  that  we  ought  to  have  been  drawn  out  to  hinder  their  landing  ; but  they 
who  say  so  talk  without  experience,  and  at  random,  of  such  things  ; for  if  in  all  there  were  not 
above  7,000  men  in  the  Goletta  and  the  fort,  how  could  so  small  a number,  though  never  so  brave, 
take  the  open  field  against  such  forces  as  those  of  the  enemy’s  ? And  how  is  it  possible  that  a 
place  can  avoid  being  taken  which  can  have  no  relief,  particularly  being  besieged  by  such  numbers, 
and  those  in  their  own  country  ? But  it  seemed  to  many  others,  and  that  is  also  my  opinion, 
that  God  Almighty  favoured  Spain  most  particularly,  in  suffering  that  sink  of  iniquity  and  misery, 
as  well  as  that  sponge  and  perpetual  drain  of  treasure,  to  be  destroyed.  For  infinite  sums  of 
money  were  spent  there  to  no  purpose,  without  any  other  design  than  to  preserve  the  memory  of 
one  of  the  emperor's  (Charles  the  Fifth’s)  conquests;  as  if  it  had  been  necessary  to  support  the 
fame  of  his  glory,  which  will  be  permanent,  that  those  stones  should  remain  in  being.  The  fort 
was  likewise  lost,  but  the  Turks  got  it  foot  by  foot;  for  the  soldiers  who  defended  it  sustained 
two-and-twenty  assaults,  and  in  them  killed  above  25,000  of  those  barbarians  ; and  when  it  was 
taken,  of  300  which  were  left  alive,  there  was  not  one  man  unwounded — a certain  sign  of  the 
bravery  of  the  garrison,  and  of  their  skill  in  defending  places.  There  was  likewise  taken,  by  com- 
position, a small  fort  in  the  midst  of  a lake,  which  was  under  the  command  of  Don  John 
Zanoguerra,  a gentleman  of  Valencia,  and  a soldier  of  great  renown.  Don  Pedro  Puerto  Carrero, 
General  of  the  Goletta,  was  taken  prisoner,  and  was  so  afflicted  at  the  loss  of  the  place,  that  I12 
died  of  grief  by  the  way,  before  he  got  to  Constantinople,  whither  they  were  carrying  him.  They 
took  also  prisoner  the  commander  of  the  fort,  whose  name  was  Gabriel  Cerbellon,  a Milanese,  a 
great  engineer,  as  well  as  a valiant  soldier.  Several  persons  of  quality  were  killed  in  those  two 
fortresses,  and  amongst  the  rest  was  Pagano  Doria,  the  brother  of  the  famous  John  Andrea  Doria,  a 
generous  and  noble-hearted  gentleman,  as  well  appeared  by  his  liberality  to  that  brother  ; and  that 
which  made  his  death  more  worthy  of  compassion  was,  that  he  received  it  from  some  Arabs,  to 
whom  he  had  committed  his  safety  after  the  loss  of  the  fort,  they  having  promised  to  carry  him 
disguised  in  a Moor’s  habit  to  Tabarca,  which  is  a small  fort  held  on  that  coast  by  the  Genoese, 
for  the  diving  for  coral  ; but  they  cut  off  his  head,  and  brought  it  to  the  Turkish  general,  who  made 
good  to  them  our  Spanish  proverb,  that  ‘ the  treason  pleases,  but  the  traitors  are  odious  ; ’ for  he 
ordered  them  to  be  hanged  up  immediately  for  not  having  brought  him  alive. 

“ Amongst  the  Christians  which  were  taken  in  the  fort,  there  was  one  Don  Pedro  de  Aguilar, 
of  some  place  in  Andalusia,  who  had  been  an  ensign  in  the  place  ; a very  brave  and  a very 


“They  cut  off  his  head,  and  brought  it  to  the  Turkish  general.”—/.  271. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


2 73 


ingenious  man,  and  one  who  had  a rare  talent  in  poetry.  I mention  him  because  it  was  his  fortune 
to  be  a slave  in  the  same  galley  with  me,  and  chained  to  the  same  bench.  Before  he  left  the 
port  he  made  two  sonnets,  by  way  of  epitaph  for  the  Goletta  and  the  fort,  which  I must  beg 
leave  to  repeat  here,  having  learned  them  by  heart,  and  I believe  they  will  rather  divert  than 
tire  the  company.” 

When  the  captive  named  Don  Pedro  de  Aguilar,  Don  Ferdinand  looked  upon  his  companions, 
and  they  all  smiled  ; and  when  he  talked  of  the  sonnets,  one  of  them  said,  “ Before  you  go  on  to 
repeat  the  sonnets,  I desire,  sir,  you  would  tell  me  what  became  of  that  Don  Pedro  de  Aguilar 
whom  you  have  mentioned.” 

“ All  that  I know  of  him,”  answered  the  slave,  “ is,  that  after  having  been  two  years  in  Con- 
stantinople, he  made  his  escape  disguised  like  an  Arnaut,  and  in  company  of  a Greek  spy  ; but  I 
cannot  tell  whether  he  obtained  his  liberty  or  no,  though  I believe  he  did,  because  about  a year 
after  I saw  the  same  Greek  in  Constantinople,  but  had  not  an  opportunity  to  ask  him  about  the 
success  of  his  journey.” 

“ Then  I can  tell  you,”  replied  the  gentleman,  “ that  the  Don  Pedro  you  speak  of  is  my 
brother,  and  is  at  present  at  home,  married,  rich,  and  has  three  children.” 

“ God  be  thanked,”  said  the  slave,  “ for  the  favours  he  has  bestowed  on  him  ; for  in  my  mind 
there  is  no  felicity  equal  to  that  of  recovering  one’s  lost  liberty.” 

“ And  moreover,”  added  the  same  gentleman,  “ I can  say  the  sonnets  you  mentioned,  which 
my  brother  made.” 

“ Pray  say  them,  then,”  replied  the  slave,  “ for  I question  not  but  you  can  repeat  them  better 
than  I.” 

“ With  all  my  heart,”  answered  the  gentleman.  “ That  upon  the  Goletta  was  as  follows.” 

. J I /lAO’d 


35 


CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

THE  STORY  OF  THE  CAPTIVE  CONTINUED. 

SONNET. 

BLEST  souls,  discharged  of  life’s  oppressive  weight, 
Whose  virtue  proved  your  passport  to  the  skies  ; 
You  there  procured  a more  propitious  fate. 

When  for  your  faith  you  bravely  fell  to  rise. 

When  pious  rage,  diffused  through  every  vein, 

On  this  ungrateful  shore  inflamed  your  blood, 

Each  drop  you  lost  was  bought  with  crowds  of  slain, 
Whose  vital  purple  swell’d  the  neighb’ring  flood. 

Though  crush’d  by  ruins,  and  by  odds,  you  claim 
That  perfect  glory,  that  immortal  fame, 

Which,  like  true  heroes,  nobly  you  pursued ; 

On  these  you  seized,  even  when  of  life  deprived, 

For  still  your  courage  even  your  lives  survived; 

And  sure  ’tis  conquest  thus  to  be  subdued. 


I know  it  is  just  as  you  repeat  it,”  said  the  captive. 

Well,  then,’  said  the  gentleman,  “ I will  give  you  now  that  which  was  made  upon  the  fort, 
if  I can  remember  it.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


275 


A SONNET. 

Amidst  these  barren  fields,  and  ruin’d  tow’rs, 

The  bed  of  honour  of  the  fallen  brave, 

Three  thousand  champions  of  the  Christian  powers 
Found  a new  life,  and  triumph  in  the  grave. 

Long  did  their  arms  their  haughty  foes  repel, 

Yet  strew’d  the  fields  with  slaughter’d  heaps  in  vain  ; 

O’ercome  by  toils,  the  pious  heroes  fell, 

Or  but  survived  more  nobly  to  be  slain. 

This  dismal  soil,  so  famed  in  ills  of  old, 

In  every  age  was  fatal  to  the  bold, 

The  seat  of  horror,  and  the  warrior’s  tomb ; 

Yet  hence  to  heaven  more  worth  was  ne’er  resign’d  < 

Than  these  display’d  ; nor  has  the  earth  combined 
Resumed  more  noble  bodies  in  her  womb. 

The  sonnets  were  applauded,  and  the  captive  was  pleased  to  hear  such  good  news  of  his 
friend  and  companion.  After  that  he  pursued  his  relation  in  these  terms  : — 

“The  Turks  ordered  the  dismantling  of  the  Goletta,  the  fort  being  razed  to  their  hand  by 
the  siege ; and  yet  the  mines  they  made  could  not  blow  up  the  old  walls,  which,  nevertheless, 
were  always  thought  the  weakest  part  of  the  place  ; but  the  new  fortification,  made  by  the  engineer 
Fratin,  came  easily  down.  In  fine,  the  Turkish  fleet  returned  in  triumph  to  Constantinople,  where, 
not  long  after,  my  master  Vehali  died,  whom  the  Turks  used  to  call  Vehali  Fartax,  which,  in 
Turkish,  signifies  the  renegade,  as  indeed  he  was  ; and  the  Turks  give  names  among  themselves, 
either  from  some  virtue  or  some  defect  that  is  in  them  ; and  this  happens  because  there  are  but 
four  families  descended  from  the  Ottoman  family  ; all  the  rest,  as  I have  said,  take  their  names 
from  some  defect  of  the  body  or  some  good  quality  of  the  mind.  This  slave  was  at  the  oar 
in  one  of  the  Grand  Seignior’s  galleys  for  fourteen  years,  till  he  was  four-and-thirty  years  old ; 
at  which  time  he  turned  renegade,  to  be  revenged  of  a Turk,  who  gave  him  a box  on  the  ear, 
as  he  was  chained  to  the  oar — forsaking  his  religion  for  revenge ; after  which  he  showed  so 
much  valour  and  conduct,  that  he  came  to  be  King  of  Algiers,  and  admiral  of  the  Turkish  fleet, 
which  is  the  third  command  in  the  whole  empire.  He  was  a Calabrian  by  birth,  and  of  a mild 
disposition  towards  his  slaves,  as  also  of  good  morals  to  the  rest  of  the  world.  He  had  above 
3.000  slaves  of  his  own,  all  which,  after  his  death,  were  divided,  as  he  had  ordered  by  his  will, 
between  the  Grand  Seignior,  his  sons,  and  his  renegades 

“I  fell  to  the  share  of  a Venetian  renegade,  who  was  a cabin  boy  in  a Venetian  ship  which 
was  taken  by  Vehali,  who  loved  him  so,  that  he  was  one  of  his  favourite  boys ; and  he  came 
at  last  to  prove  one  of  the  cruellest  renegades  that  ever  was  known.  His  name  was  Azanaga, 
and  he  obtained  such  riches,  as  to  rise  by  them  to  be  King  of  Algiers ; and  with  him  I left 
Constantinople,  with  some  satisfaction  to  think,  at  least,  that  I was  in  a place  so  near  Spain,  not 
because  I could  give  advice  to  any  friend  of  my  misfortunes,  but  because  I hoped  to  try  whether 
I should  succeed  better  in  Algiers  than  I had  done  in  Constantinople,  where  I had  tried  a 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


276 

thousand  ways  of  running  away,  but  could  never  execute  any  of  them,  which  I hoped  I should 
compass  better  in  Algiers,  for  hope  never  forsook  me  upon  all  the  disappointments  I met  with 

in  the  design  of  recovering  my  liberty.  By  this  means  I kept  myself  alive,  shut  up  in  a prison  or 

house  which  the  Turks  call  a bagnio,  where  they  keep  their  Christian  slaves,  as  well  those  of 
the  king  as  those  who  belong  to  private  persons,  and  also  those  who  are  called  El  Almacen , 
that  is,  who  belong  to  the  public,  and  are  employed  by  the  city  in  works  that  belong  to  it.  These 
latter  with  great  difficulty  obtain  their  liberty  ; for  having  no  particular  master,  but  belonging  to 
the  public,  they  can  find  nobody  to  treat  with  about  their  ransom,  though  they  have  money  to 
pay  it.  The  king’s  slaves,  which  are  ransomable,  are  not  obliged  to  go  out  to  work  as  the 
others  do,  except  their  ransom  stays  too  long  before  it  comes ; for  then,  to  hasten  it,  they  make 
them  work,  and  fetch  wood  with  the  rest,  which  is  no  small  labour.  I was  one  of  those  who  were 
to  be  ransomed  ; for  when  they  knew  I had  been  a captain,  though  I told  them  the  impossibility 
I was  in  of  being  redeemed,  because  of  my  poverty,  yet  they  put  me  among  the  gentlemen  that 
were  to  be  ransomed,  and  to  that  end  they  put  me  on  a slight  chain,  rather  as  a mark  of 

distinction  than  to  restrain  me  by  it ; and  so  I passed  my  life  in  that  bagnio,  with  several  other 

gentlemen  of  quality  who  expected  their  ransom  ; and,  though  hunger  and  nakedness  might,  as 
it  did  often,  afflict  us,  yet  nothing  gave  us  such  affliction  as  to  hear  and  see  the  excessive 
cruelties  with  which  our  master  used  the  other  Christian  slaves.  He  would  hang  one  one  day, 
then  impale  another,  cut  off  the  ears  of  a third  ; and  this  upon  such  slight  occasions  that  often 
the  Turks  would  own  that  he  did  it  only  for  the  pleasure  of  doing  it,  and  because  he  was 
naturally  an  enemy  to  mankind.  Only  one  Spanish  soldier  knew  how  to  deal  with  him  : his 
name  was  Saavedra ; who,  though  he  had  done  many  things  which  will  not  easily  be  forgotten 
by  the  Turks,  yet  all  to  gain  his  liberty,  his  master  never  gave  him  a blow,  nor  used  him  ill, 
either  in  word  or  deed  ; and  yet  we  were  always  afraid  that  the  least  of  his  pranks  would  make 
him  be  impaled;  nay,  he  himself  sometimes  was  afraid  of  it  too:  and,  if  it  were  not  for  taking 
up  too  much  of  your  time,  I could  tell  such  passages  of  him  as  would  divert  the  company  much 
better  than  the  relation  of  my  adventures,  and  cause  more  wonder  in  them. 

“ But  to  go  on.  I say  that  the  windows  of  a very  rich  Moor’s  house  looked  upon  the  court 

of  our  prison  ; which,  indeed,  according  to  the  custom  of  the  country,  were  rather  peeping  holes 

than  windows,  and  yet  they  had  also  lattices  or  jalousies  on  the  inside. 

“ It  happened  one  day  that  being  upon  a kind  of  terrace  of  our  prison,  with  only  three  of 
my  comrades,  diverting  ourselves  as  well  as  we  could,  by  trying  who  could  leap  farthest  in  his 
chains,  all  the  other  Christians  being  gone  out  to  work,  I chanced  to  look  up  to  those  windows, 
and  saw  that  out  of  one  of  them  there  appeared  a long  cane,  and  to  it  was  a bit  of  linen  tied  ; and 

the  cane  was  moved  up  and  down,  as  if  it  was  expected  that  some  of  us  should  lay  hold  of  it. 

We  all  took  notice  of  it,  and  one  of  us  went  and  stood  just  under  it,  to  see  if  they  would  let 
it  fall  ; but  just  as  he  came  to  it  the  cane  was  drawn  up,  and  shook  to  and  fro  sideways,  as 
if  they  had  made  the  same  sign  as  people  do  with  their  head  when  they  deny.  He  retired  upon 


At  last  I resolved  to  trust  a renegade  of  Murcia,  who  had  shown 


me  great  proofs  of  his  kindness.” — p.  278. 


2-8  D0N  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

that,  and  the  same  motion  was  made  with  it  as  before.  Another  of  my  comrades*  advanced,  and 
had  the  same  success  as  the  former  ; the  third  man  was  used  just  as  the  rest ; which  I seeing, 
resolved  to  try  my  fortune  too;  and  as  I came  under  the  cane  it  fell  at  my  feet.  Immediately 
I untied  the  linen,  within  which  was  a knot,  which,  being  opened,  showed  us  about  ten  zianins, 
which  is  a sort  of  gold  of  base  alloy  used  by  the  Moors,  each  of  which  is  worth  about  two  crowns 
of  our  money.  It  is  not  to  be  much  questioned  whether  the  discovery  was  not  as  pleasant  as 
surprising  ; we  were  in  admiration,  and  I more  particularly,,  not  being  able  to  guess  whence  this 
good  fortune  came  to  us,  especially  to  me  ; for  it  was*  plain  I was  more  meant  than  any  of  my 
comrades,  since  the  cane  was  let  go  to  me  when  it  was  refused  to  them.  I took  my  money,  broke 
the  cane,  and,  going  upon  the  terrace,  saw  a very  fine  white  hand  that  opened  and  shut  the 
window  with  haste.  By  this  we  imagined  that  some  woman  who  lived  in  that  house  had  done 
us  this  favour ; and,  to  return  our  thanks,  we  bowed  ourselves  after  the  Moorish,  fashion,  with 
our  arms  across  our  breasts.  A little  after  there  appeared  out  of  the  same  window  a little 
cross  made  of  cane,  which  immediately  was  pulled  in  again.  This  confirmed  us  in  our  opinion 
that  some  Christian  woman  was  a slave  in  that  house,  and  that  it  was  sHe  that  took  pity  on 
us  ; but  the  whiteness  of  the  hand,  and  the  richness  of  the  bracelets  upon  the  arm,  which  we 
had  a glimpse  of,  seemed  to  destroy  that  thought  again ; and  then  we  believed  it  was  some 
Christian  woman  turned  Mahometan,  whom  their  masters  often  marry,  and  think  themselves  very 
happy  ; for  our  women  are  more  valued  by  them  than  the  women  of  their  own  country.  But 
in  all  this  guessing  we  were  far  enough  from  finding  out  the  truth  of  the  case ; however,  we 
resolved  to  be  very  diligent  in  observing  the  window,  which  was  our  north  star.  There  passed 
above  fifteen  days  before  we  saw  either  the  hand  or  cane,  or  any  other  sign  whatsoever ; though 
in  all  that  time  we  endeavoured  to  find  out  who  lived  in  that  house,  and  if  there  were  in  it 
any  Christian  woman  who  was  a renegade ; yet  all  we  could  discover  amounted  to  only  this,  that 
the  house  belonged  to  one  of  the  chief  Moors,  a very  rich  man,  called  Agimorato,  who  had 
been  Alcayde  of  the  Bata,  which  is  an  office  much  valued  among  them.  But  when  we  least 
expected  our  golden  shower  would  continue,  out  of  that  window  we  saw  on  a sudden  the  cane 
appear  again  with  another  piece  of  linen  and  a bigger  knot ; and  this  was  just  at  a time  when 
the  bagnio  was  without  any  other  of  the  slaves  in  it.  We  all  tried  our  fortunes  as  the  first 
time,  and  it  succeeded  accordingly,  for  the  cane  was  let  go  to  none  but  me.  I untied  the  knot,  and 
found  in  it  forty  crowns  of  Spanish  gold,  with  a paper  written  in  Arabic,  and  at  the  top  of  the 
paper  was  a great  cross.  I kissed  the  cross,  took  the  crowns,  and,  returning  to  the  terrace,  we 
all  made  our  Moorish  reverences  ; the  hand  appeared  again,  and  I having  made  signs  that  I 
would  read  the  paper,  the  window  was  shut.  We  remained  all  overjoyed  and  astonished  at  what 
had  happened,  and  were  extremely  desirous  to  know  the  contents  of  the  paper  ; but  none  of  us 
understood  Arabic,  and  it  was  yet  more  difficult  to  find  out  a proper  interpreter.  At  last  I 
resolved  to  trust  a renegade  of  Murcia,  who  had  shown  me  great  proofs  of  his  kindness.  We 
gave  one  another  mutual  assurances,  and  on  his  side  he  was  obliged  to  keep  secret  all  that  I 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


2/9 


should  reveal  to  him  ; for  the  renegades,  who  have  thoughts  of  returning  to  their  own  country, 
use  to  get  certificates  from  such  persons  of  quality  as  are  slaves  in  Barbary,  in  which  they  make 
a sort  of  an  affidavit  that  such  a one,  a renegade,  is  an  honest  man,  and  has  always  been  kind 
to  the  Christians,  and  has  a mind  to  make  his  escape  on  the  first  occasion.  Some  there  are  who 
procure  these  certificates  with  an  honest  design,  and  remain  among  Christians  as  long  as  they  live  ; 
but  others  get  them  on  purpose  to  make  use  of  them  when  they  go  a-pirating  on  the  Christian 
shores  ; for  then,  if  they  are  shipwrecked  or  taken,  they  show  these  certificates,  and  say  that 
thereby  may  be  seen  the  intention  with  which  they  came  in  the  Turks’  company — to  wit,  to  get 
an  opportunity  of  returning  to  Christendom.  By  this  means  they  escape  the  first  fury  of  the 
Christians,  and  are  seemingly  reconciled  to  the  Church  without  being  hurt ; afterwards  they  take 
their  time,  and  return  to  Barbary  to  be  what  they  were  before. 

“ One  of  these  renegades  was  my  friend,  and  he  had  certificates  from  us  all.  by  which  we 
gave  him  much  commendation  ; but  if  the  Moors  had  caught  him  with  those  papers  about  him 
they  would  have  burnt  him  alive.  I knew  that  not  only  he  understood  the  Arabic  tongue,  but  also 
that  he  could  both  speak  and  write  it  fluently.  But  yet,  before  I resolved  to  trust  him  entirely,  I 
bid  him  read  me  that  paper,  which  I had  found  by  chance.  He  opened  it,  and  was  a good  while 
looking  upon  it,  and  construing  it  to  himself.  I asked  him  if  he  understood  it.  He  said  ‘Yes, 
very  well ; and  that  if  I would  give  him  pen,  ink,  and  paper,  he  would  translate  it  word  for  word.’ 
We  furnished  him  with  what  he  desired,  and  he  went  to  work.  Having  finished  his  translation, 
he  said,  ‘ All  I have  here  put  into  Spanish  is  word  for  word  what  is  in  the  Arabic  ; only  where 
the  paper  says  Lela  Marien , it  means  our  Lady  the  Virgin  Mary.’  The  contents  were  thus 

“ ‘ When  I was  a child  my  father  had  a slave  who  taught  me  in  my  tongue  the  Christian 
worship,  and  told  me  a great  many  things  of  Lela  Marien.  The  Christian  slave  died,  and  I am 
sure  she  went  not  to  the  fire,  but  is  with  Allah,  for  I have  seen  her  twice  since  ; and  she  bid  me 
go  to  the  land  of  the  Christians  to  see  Lela  Marien,  who  had  a great  kindness  for  me.  I do 
not  know  what  is  the  matter  ; but  though  I have  seen  many  Christians  out  of  this  window,  none 
has  appeared  to  me  so  much  a gentleman  as  thyself.  I am  very  handsome  and  young,  and 
can  carry  with  me  a great  deal  of  money  and  other  riches.  Consider  whether  thou  canst  bring 
it  to  pass  that  we  may  escape  together,  and  then  thou  shalt  be  my  husband  in  thy  own  country, 
if  thou  art  willing ; but  if  thou  art  not,  it  is  all  one ; Lela  Marien  will  provide  me  a husband.  I 
wrote  this  myself.  Have  a care  to  whom  thou  givest  it  to  read  ; do  not  trust  any  Moor,  because 
they  are  all  treacherous.  And  in  this  I am  much  perplexed,  and  could  wish  there  were  not  a 
necessity  of  trusting  any  one ; because,  if  my  father  should  come  to  know  it,  he  would  certainly 
throw  me  into  a well,  and  cover  me  over  with  stones.  I will  tie  a thread  to  a cane,  and  with  that 
thou  mayest  fasten  thy  answer  ; and  if  thou  canst  not  find  any  one  to  write  in  Arabic,  make  me 
understand  thy  meaning  by  signs,  for  Lela  Marien  will  help  me  to  guess  it.  She  and  Allah  keep 
thee,  as  well  as  this  cross,  which  I often  kiss,  as  the  Christian  slave  bid  me  do.’ 


28o 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ You  may  imagine,  gentlemen,  that  we  were  in  admiration  at  the  contents  of  this  paper, 
and  withal  overjoyed  at  them,  which  we  expressed  so  openly  that  the  renegade  came  to  understand 
that  the  paper  was  not  found  by  chance,  but  that  it  was  really  written  by  some  one  among  us  ; 
and  accordingly  he  told  us  his  suspicion,  and  desired  us  to  trust  him  entirely,  and  that  he  would 
venture  his  life  with  us  to  procure  us  our  liberty.  Having  said  this,  he  pulled  a brass  crucifix 
out  of  his  bosom,  and,  with  many  tears,  swore  by  the  God  which  it  represented,  and  in  whom 
he,  though  a wicked  sinner,  did  firmly  believe,  to  be  true  and  faithful  to  us,  with  all  secrecy  in 
what  we  should  impart  to  him  ; for  he  guessed  that  by  the  means  of  the  woman  who  had  written 
that  letter,  we  might  all  of  us  recover  our  lost  liberty ; and  he,  in  particular,  might  obtain  what 
he  had  so  long  wished  for,  to  be  received  again  into  the  bosom  of  his  mother  the  Church,  from 
whom,  for  his  sins,  he  had  been  cut  off  as  a rotten  member.  The  renegade  pronounced  all  this 
with  so  many  tears,  and  such  signs  of  repentance,  that  we  were  all  of  opinion  to  trust  him,  and 
tell  him  the  whole  truth  of  the  business.  We  showed  him  the  little  window  out  of  which  the 
cane  used  to  appear,  and  he  from  thence  took  good  notice  of  the  house,  in  order  to  inform 
himself  who  lived  in  it.  We  next  agreed  that  it  would  be  necessary  to  answer  the  Moorish 
lady’s  note.  So  immediately  the  renegade  wrote  down  what  I dictated  to  him,  which  was  exactly 
as  I shall  relate ; for  I have  not  forgot  the  least  material  circumstance  of  this  adventure,  nor  can 
forget  them  as  long  as  I live.  The  words  then  were  these 

“ ‘ The  true  Allah  keep  thee,  my  dear  lady,  and  that  blessed  Virgin,  which  is  the  true  mother 
of  God,  and  has  inspired  thee  with  the  design  of  going  to  the  land  of  the  Christians.  Do  thou 
pray  her  that  she  would  be  pleased  to  make  thee  understand  how  thou  shalt  execute  what  she 
has  commanded  thee  ; for  she  is  so  good  that  she  will  do  it.  On  my  part,  and  on  that  of  the 
Christians  who  are  with  me,  I offer  to  do  for  thee  all  we  are  able,  even  to  the  hazard  of  our 
lives.  Fail  not  to  write  to  me,  and  give  me  notice  of  thy  resolution,  for  I will  always  answer 
thee  ; the  great  Allah  having  given  us  a Christian  slave  who  can  read  and  write  thy  language, 
as  thou  mayest  perceive  by  this  letter  ; so  that  thou  mayest,  without  fear,  give  us  notice  of  all 
thy  intentions.  As  for  what  thou  sayest,  that  as  soon  as  thou  shalt  arrive  in  the  land  of  the 
Christians  thou  designest  to  be  my  wife,  I promise  thee,  on  the  word  of  a good  Christian,  to 
take  thee  for  my  wife  ; and  thou  mayest  be  assured  that  the  Christians  perform  their  promises 
better  than  the  Moors.  Allah  and  his  mother  Mary  be  thy  guard,  my  dear  lady.’ 

“ Having  written  and  closed  this  note,  I waited  two  days  till  the  bagnio  was  empty,  and  then  1 
went  up  on  the  terrace,  the  ordinary  place  of  our  conversation,  to  see  if  the  cane  appeared,  and 
it  was  not  long  before  it  was  stirring.  As  soon  as  it  appeared  I showed  my  note,  that  the  thread 
might  be  put  to  the  cane,  but  I found  that  was  done  to  my  hand  ; and  the  cane  being  let  down, 
I fastened  the  note  to  it.  Not  long  after  the  knot  was  let  fall,  and  I,  taking  it  up,  found  in  it 
several  pieces  of  gold  and  silver,  above  fifty  crowns,  which  gave  us  infinite  content,  and  fortified 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


281 


our  hopes  of  obtaining  at  last  our  liberty.  That  evening  our  renegade  came  to  us,  and  told  us 
he  had  found  out  that  the  master  of  that  house  was  the  same  Moor  we  had  been  told  of,  called 
Agimorato,  extremely  rich,  and  who  had  one  only  daughter  to  inherit  all  his  estate  ; that  it  was 
the  report  of  the  whole  city  that  she  was  the  handsomest  maid  in  all  Barbary,  having  been 
demanded  in  marriage  by  several  bassas  and  viceroys,  but  that  she  had  always  refused  to  marry. 
He  also  told  us  that  he  had  learned  she  had  had  a Christian  slave  who  was  dead,  all  which  agreed 
with  the  contents  of  the  letter.  We  immediately  held  a council  with  the  renegade  about  the 
manner  we  should  use  to  carry  off  the  Moorish  lady,  and  go  all  together  to  Christendom  ; when 
at  last  we  agreed  to  wait  for  the  answer  of  Zoraida — for  that  is  the  name  of  the  lady  who  now 
desires  to  be  called  Mary — as  well  knowing  she  could  best  advise  the  overcoming  all  the  difficulties 
that  were  in  our  way  ; and  after  this  resolution,  the  renegade  assured  us  again  that  he  would 
lose  his  life  or  deliver  us  out  of  captivity. 

“ The  bagnio  was  four  days  together  full  of  people,  and  all  that  time  the  cane  was  invisible ; 
but  as  soon  as  it  returned  to  its  solitude,  the  cane  appeared,  with  a knot  much  bigger  than 
ordinary ; having  untied  it,  I found  in  it  a letter,  and  a hundred  crowns  in  gold.  The  renegade 
happened  that  day  to  be  with  us,  and  we  gave  him  the  letter  to  read,  which  he  said  contained 
these  words  : — 

“ ‘ I cannot  tell,  sir,  how  to  contrive  that  we  may  go  together  to  Spain ; neither  has  Lela 
Marien  told  it  me,  though  I have  earnestly  asked  it  of  her.  All  I can  do  is  to  furnish  you  out  of 
this  window  with  a great  deal  of  riches.  Buy  your  ransom  and  your  friends’  with  that,  and  let  one 
of  you  go  to  Spain,  and  buy  a barque  there,  and  come  and  fetch  the  rest.  As  for  me,  you  shall  find 
me  in  my  father’s  garden  out  of  town,  by  the  sea-side,  not  far  from  the  Bab-Ayoun  gate,  where  I 
am  to  pass  all  the  summer  with  my  father  and  my  maids  ; from  which  you  may  take  me  without 
fear,  in  the  night-time,  and  carry  me  to  your  barque  ; but  remember  thou  art  to  be  my  husband, 
and  if  thou  failest  in  that  I will  desire  Lela  Marien  to  chastise  thee.  If  thou  canst  not  trust  one  of 
thy  friends  to  go  for  the  barque,  pay  thy  own  ransom  and  go  thyself ; for  I trust  thou  wilt  return 
sooner  than  another,  since  thou  art  a gentleman  and  a Christian.  Find  out  my  father’s  garden,  and 
I will  take  care  to  watch  when  the  bagnio  is  empty,  and  let  thee  have  more  money.  Allah 
keep  my  dear  lord.’ 

“ These  were  the  contents  of  the  second  letter  we  received.  Upon  the  reading  of  it  every  one 

of  us  offered  to  be  the  man  that  should  go  and  buy  the  barque,  promising  to  return  with  all  speed  ; 

but  the  renegade  opposed  that  proposition,  and  said  he  would  never  consent  that  any  one  of  us 

should  obtain  his  liberty  before  the  rest,  because  experience  had  taught  him  that  people  once  free 

do  not  perform  what  they  promise  when  captives,  and  that  some  slaves  of  quality  had  often  used 

that  remedy,  to  send  one  either  to  Valencia  or  Majorca,  with  money  to  buy  a barque,  and  come 

back  and  fetch  the  rest,  but  that  they  never  returned ; because  the  joy  of  having  obtained  their 

liberty,  and  the  fear  of  losing  it  again,  made  them  forget  what  they  had  promised,  and  cancel  the 
30 


282 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


memory  of  all  obligations.  To  confirm  which  he  related  to  us  a strange  story,  which  had 
happened  in  those  parts,  where  every  day  the  most  surprising  and  wonderful  things  come 
to  pass.  After  this  he  said  that  all  that  could  be  done  was  for  him  to  buy  a barque  with  the 
money  which  should  redeem  one  of  us ; that  he  could  buy  one  in  Algiers,  and  pretend  to 
turn  merchant,  and  deal  between  Algiers  and  Tetuan  ; by  which  means  he,  being  master  of 
the  vessefi  might  easily  find  out  some  way  of  getting  us  out  of  the  bagnio,  and  taking  us  on 
board  ; and  especially  if  the  Moorish  lady  did  what  she  promised,  and  gave  us  money  to  pay 
all  our  ransoms  ; for,  being  free,  we  might  embark  even  at  noon-day  ; but  the  greatest  difficulty 
would  be,  that  the  Moors  do  not  permit  renegades  to  keep  any  barques  but  large  ones,  fit  to 
cruise  upon  Christians  ; for  they  believe  that  a renegade,  particularly  a Spaniard,  seldom  buys  a 
barque  but  with  a design  of  returning  to  his  own  country.  That,  however,  he  knew  how  to  obviate 
that  difficulty,  by  taking  a Tagarin  Moor  for  his  partner  both  in  the  barque  and  trade,  by  which 
means  he  should  still  be  master  of  her,  and  then  all  the  rest  would  be  easy.  We  durst  not  oppose 
this  opinion,  though  we  had  more  inclination  every  one  of  us  to  go  to  Spain  for  a barque,  as  the 
lady  had  advised  ; but  were  afraid  that  if  we  contradicted  him,  as  we  were  at  his  mercy,  he  might 
betray  us,  and  bring  our  lives  to  danger,  particularly  if  the  business  of  Zoraida  should  be  discovered, 
for  whose  liberty  and  life  we  would  have  given  all  ours  ; so  we  determined  to  put  ourselves  under 
the  protection  of  God  and  the  renegade.  At  the  same  time  we  answered  Zoraida,  telling  her  that 
we  would  do  all  she  advised,  which  was  very  well,  and  just  as  if  Lela  Marien  herself  had  instructed 
her  ; and  that  now  it  depended  on  her  alone  to  give  us  the  means  of  bringing  this  design  to  pass. 
I promised  her  once  more  to  be  her  husband.  After  this,  in  two  days  that  the  bagnio  happened  to 
be  empty,  she  gave  us,  by  the  means  of  the  cane,  two  thousand  crowns  of  gold,  and  withal  a letter, 
in  which  she  let  us  know  that  the  next  Juma,  which  is  their  Friday,  she  was  to  go  to  her  father’s 
garden,  and  that,  before  she  went,  she  would  give  us  more  money  ; and  if  we  had  not  enough,  she 
would,  upon  our  letting  her  know  it,  give  us  what  we  should  think  sufficient ; for  her  father  was  so 
rich  that  he  would  hardly  miss  it,  and  so  much  the  less,  because  he  entrusted  her  with  the  keys  of 
all  his  treasure.  We  presently  gave  the  renegade  five  hundred  crowns  to  buy  the  barque,  and  I paid 
my  own  ransom  with  eight  hundred  crowns,  which  I put  into  the  hands  of  a merchant  of  Valencia, 
then  in  Algiers,  who  made  the  bargain  with  the  king,  and  had  me  to  his  house  upon  parole,  to  pay 
the  money  upon  the  arrival  of  the  first  barque  from  Valencia  ; for  if  he  had  paid  down  the  money 
immediately,  the  king  might  have  suspected  the  money  had  been  ready,  and  lain  some  time  in 
Algiers,  and  that  the  merchant  for  his  own  profit  had  concealed  it ; and,  in  short,  I durst  not  trust 
my  master  with  ready  money,  knowing  his  distrustful  and  malicious  nature.  The  Thursday  pre- 
ceding that  Friday  that  Zoraida  was  to  go  to  the  garden,  she  let  us  have  a thousand  crowns 
more ; desiring  me,  at  the  same  time,  that  if  I paid  my  ransom,  I would  find  out  her  fathers 
garden,  and  contrive  some  way  of  seeing  her  there.  I answered  in  few  words,  that  I would  do 
as  she  desired,  and  she  should  only  take  care  to  recommend  us  to  Lela  Marien,  by  those 
prayers  which  the  Christain  slave  had  taught  her.  Having  done  this,  order  was  given  to  have  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


283 


ransom  of  my  three  friends  paid  also ; lest  they,  seeing  me  at  liberty,  and  themselves  not  so,  though 
there  was  money  to  set  them  free,  should  be  troubled  in  mind,  and  give  way  to  the  temptation  of 
the  devil,  in  doing  something  that  might  redound  to  the  prejudice  of  Zoraida ; for  though  the  con- 
sideration of  their  quality  ought  to  have  given  me  security  of  their  honour,  yet  I did  not  think  it 
proper  to  run  the  least  hazard  in  the  matter  ; so  they  were  redeemed  in  the  same  manner,  and  by 
the  same  merchant,  that  I was,  who  had  the  money  beforehand  ; but  we  never  discovered  to  him 
the  remainder  of  our  intrigue,  as  not  being  willing  to  risk  the  danger  there  was  in  so  doing.” 


CHAPTER  XXXVII. 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF  THE  CAPTIVE  CONTINUED. 

OUR  renegade  had  in  a fortnight’s  time  bought  a very  good  barque,  capable  of  carrying 
above  thirty  people  ; and,  to  give  no  suspicion  of  any  other  design,  he  undertook  a 
voyage  to  a place  upon  the  coast  called  Sargel,  about  thirty  leagues  to  the  eastward  of  Algiers 
towards  Oran,  where  there  is  a great  trade  for  dried  figs.  He  made  his  voyage  two  or  three 
times  in  company  with  the  Tagarin  Moor,  his  partner.  Those  Moors  who  were  driven  out  of 
Arragon  are  called  in  Barbary  Tagarins;  as  they  call  those  of  Granada  Mudajares;  and  the  same 
in  the  kingdom  of  Fez  are  called  Elches,  and  are  the  best  soldiers  that  prince  has. 

“ Every  time  he  passed  with  his  barque  along  the  coast  he  used  to  cast  anchor  in  a little 
bay  that  was  not  above  two  bow-shots  from  the  garden  where  Zoraida  expected  us  ; and  there 
he  used  to  exercise  the  Moors  that  rowed,  either  in  making  the  sala,  which  is  a ceremony  among 
them,  or  in  some  other  employment ; by  which  he  practised  in  jest  what  he  was  resolved  to 
execute  in  earnest.  So  sometimes  he  would  go  to  the  garden  of  Zoraida  and  beg  some  fruit, 
and  her  father  would  give  him  some,  though  he  did  not  know  him.  He  had  a mind  to  find 
an  occasion  to  speak  to  Zoraida,  and  tell  her,  as  he  since  owned  to  me,  that  he  was  the 
man  who  by  my  order  was  to  carry  her  to  the  land  of  the  Christians,  and  that  she  might 
depend  upon  it ; but  he  could  never  get  an  opportunity  of  doing  it,  because  the  Moorish  and 
Turkish  women  never  suffer  themselves  to  be  seen  by  any  of  their  own  nation,  but  by  their 


BON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


285 

husband,  or  by  his  or  their  father’s  command  ; but  as  for  the  Christian  slaves,  they  let  them  see 
them,  and  that  more  familiarly  than  perhaps  could  be  wished.  I should  have  been  very  sorry 
that  the  renegade  had  seen  or  spoken  to  Zoraida,  for  it  must  needs  have  troubled  her  infinitely 
to  see  that  her  business  was  trusted  to  a renegade ; and  God  Almighty,  who  governed  our 
design,  ordered  it  so  that  the  renegade  was  disappointed.  He,  in  the  meantime,  seeing  how 
securely  and  without  suspicion  he  went  and  came  along  the  coast,  staying  where  and  when  he 
pleased  by  the  way,  and  that  his  partner,  the  Tagarin  Moor,  was  of  his  mind  in  all  things  ; that 
I was  at  liberty,  and  that  there  wanted  nothing  but  some  Christians  to  help  us  to  row,  bid  me 
consider  whom  I intended  to  carry  with  me  besides  those  who  were  ransomed,  and  that  I should 
make  sure  of  them  for  the  first  Friday,  because  he  had  fixed  on  that  day  for  our  departure. 
Upon  notice  of  this  resolution  I spoke  to  twelve  lusty  Spaniards,  good  rowers,  and  those  who 
might  easiest  get  out  of  the  city.  It  was  a great  fortune  that  we  got  so  many  in  such  a 
conjuncture,  because  there  were  above  twenty  sail  of  rovers  gone  out,  who  had  taken  aboard 
most  of  the  slaves  fit  for  the  oar  ; and  we  had  not  had  these,  but  that  their  master  happened 
to  stay  at  home  that  summer  to  finish  a galley  he  was  building  to  cruise  with,  which  was  then 
upon  the  stocks.  I said  no  more  to  them  than  only  they  should  steal  out  of  the  town  in  the 
evening  upon  the  next  Friday,  and  stay  for  me  upon  the  way  that  led  to  Agimorato’s  garden. 
I spoke  to  every  one  by  himself,  and  gave  each  of  them  orders  to  say  no  more  to  any  other 
Christian  they  should  see  than  that  they  stayed  for  me  there.  Having  done  this,  I had  another 
thing  of  the  greatest  importance  to  bring  to  pass,  which  was  to  give  Zoraida  notice  of  our  design, 
and  how  far  we  had  carried  it,  that  she  might  be  ready  at  a short  warning,  and  not  to  be 
surprised  if  we  came  upon  the  house  on  a sudden,  and  even  before  she  could  think  that  the 
Christian  barque  could  be  come.  This  made  me  resolve  to  go  to  the  garden  to  try  if  it  were 
possible  to  speak  to  her  ; so  one  day,  upon  pretence  of  gathering  a few  herbs,  I entered  the 
garden,  and  the  first  person  I met  was  her  father,  who  spoke  to  me  in  the  language  used  all 
over  the  Turkish  dominions — which  is  a mixture  of  all  the  Christian  and  Moorish  languages, 
by  which  we  understand  one  another  from  Constantinople  to  Algiers — and  asked  me  what  I 
looked  for  in  his  garden,  and  who  I belonged  to.  I told  him  I was  a slave  of  Arnaut  Mami 
(who  I knew  was  his  intimate  friend),  and  that  I wanted  a few  herbs  to  make  up  a salad.  He 
then  asked  me  if  I were  a man  to  be  redeemed  or  no,  and  how  much  my  master  asked  for 
me.  During  these  questions  the  beautiful  Zoraida  came  out  of  the  garden-house  hard  by,  having 
descried  me  a good  while  before  ; and  as  the  Moorish  women  make  no  difficulty  of  showing 
themselves  to  the  Christian  slaves,  she  drew  near,  without  scruple,  to  the  place  where  her  father 
and  I were  talking  ; neither  did  her  father  show  any  dislike  of  her  coming,  but  called  to  her 
to  come  nearer.  It  would  be  hard  for  me  to  express  here  the  wonderful  surprise  and  astonishment 
that  the  beauty,  the  rich  dress,  and  the  charming  air  of  my  beloved  Zoraida  put  me  in ; she 
was  all  bedecked  with  pearls,  which  hung  thick  upon  her  head  and  about  her  neck  and  arms. 
Her  feet  and  legs  were  bare,  after  the  custom  of  that  country,  and  she  had  upon  her  ankles  a 


DON  OUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

286 

kind  of  bracelet  of  gold,  and  set  with  such  rich  diamonds  that  her  father  valued  them  as  she 
has  since  told  me,  at  ,0,000  pistoles  a pair;  and  those  about  her  wnsts  were  of  the  same 
value  The  pearls  were  of  the  best  sort,  for  the  Moorish  women  delight  much  m them,  an 
have  more  pearls  of  all  sorts  than  any  nation.  Her  father  was  reputed  to  have  the  finest  m 
Alters,  and  to  be  worth,  besides,  above  200,000  Spanish  crowns,  of  all  wh.ch  the  lady  you  ere 
see*  was  then  mistress,  but  now  is  only  so  of  me.  What  she  yet  retains  of  beauty,  after  all 
„er  sufferings,  may  help  you  to  guess  at  her  wonderful  appearance  in  the  midst  of  her  prosperity. 
The  beauty  of  some  ladies  has  its  days  and  times,  and  is  more  or  less  according  to  accidents 
or  passions,  which  naturally  raise  or  diminish  the  lustre  of  it,  and  sometimes  quite  extinguish  , 

All  I can  say  is,  at  that  time  she  appeared  to  me  the  best  dressed  and  most  beautiful  woman 
1 ever  seen,  to  which  adding  the  obligations  I had  to  her,  she  passed  with  me  for  a goddess 

from  heaven,  descended  upon  earth  for  my  relief  and  happiness. 

..  As  she  drew  near,  her  father  told  her,  in  his  country  language,  that  I was  a slave 
friend  Arnaut  Mami,  and  came  to  pick  a salad  in  his  garden.  She  presently  took  the  hint,  an 
asked  me,  in  lingua  Franca,  whether  1 was  a gentleman,  and  if  I was,  why  1 not  ransom 
myself  I told  her  .1  was  already  ransomed,  and  that  by  the  price  she  might  guess  the  va  ue  my 
mister  set  upon  me,  since  he  had  bought  me  for  .,500  pieces  of  eight.  To  which  she  replied, 

■ If  thou  hadst  been  my  fathers  slave,  I would  not  have  let  him  part  with  thee  for  twice  as  much 
for;  said  she,  ‘you  Christians  never  speak  truth  in  anything  you  say,  and  make  yourselves  poor 

deCei:l“;S  be,  madam/  said  I,  'but  in  truth  I have  dealt  by  my  master  sincerely  and 

honourably,  and  do  intend  to  deal  so  by  all  those  1 shall  have  to  deal  with. 

“ < And  when  dost  thou  go  home  ?’  said  she.  , 

...  To-morrow,  madam,'  said  I ; • for  here  is  a French  barque  that  sails  to-morrow,  and  inten 

not  to  lose  that  opportunity.  j vv. 

.. . IS  it  not  better;  replied  Zoraida,  • to  stay  till  there  come  some  Spanish  barque,  and  Oo 

them  and  not  with  the  French,  who,  I am  told,  are  no  friends  of  yours  ?' 

, . No  • said  , : • yet  if  the  report  of  a Spanish  barque's  coming  should  prove  true,  I would 

perhaps  stly  for  it,  though  it  is  more  likely  I shall  take  the  opportunity  of  the  French,  because  the 
dispe  l have  of  being  at  home,  and  with  those  persons  . love,  will  hardly  let  me  wait  for  any 

°ther..C.wIZrydoubt;  said  Zoraida,  thou  art  married  in  Spain,  and  impatient  to  be  with  thy 

WifcI  • , am  not,'  said  I,  ■ married,  but  I have  given  my  word  to  a lady  to  be  so  as  soon  as  I 
can  reach  my  own  country.’ 

« « And  is  the  lady  handsome  that  has  your  promise  ?’  said  Zorai  a. 

..  ■ She  is  so  handsome,'  said  I,  ' that,  to  describe  her  rightly  and  tell  truth,  I can  only  say  sh 
is  like  you.’ 


Her  father  came  hastily  to  us,  and,  seeing  his  daughter  in  this  condition,  asked  her  what  was  the  matter.’’—/.  288. 


HB 

PI 

• 

tki 

% 

AH 

'.'-f 

| jl 

ill 

\M 

ms 

gf 

288 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ At  this  her  father  laughed  heartily,  and  said,  ‘ On  my  word,  Christian,  she  must  be  very 
charming  if  she  be  like  my  daughter,  who  is  the  greatest  beauty  of  all  this  kingdom  : look  upon 
her  well,  and  thou  wilt  say  I speak  truth.’ 

“ Zoraida’s  father  was  our  interpreter  for  the  most  of  what  we  talked  ; for  though  she  under- 
stood the  lingua  Franca , yet  she  was  not  used  to  speak  it,  and  so  explained  herself  more  by  signs 
than  words. 

“ While  we  were  in  this  conversation,  there  came  a Moor  running  hastily,  and  cried  aloud 
that  four  Turks  had  leaped  over  the  fence  of  the  garden,  and  were  gathering  the  fruit,  though  it 
was  not  ripe.  The  old  man  started  at  that,  and  so  did  Zoraida,  for  the  Moors  do  naturally  stand 
in  awe  of  the  Turks,  particularly  of  the  soldiers,  who  are  so  insolent  on  their  side  that  they  treat 
the  Moors  as  if  they  were  their  slaves.  This  made  the  father  bid  his  daughter  go  in  and  shut 
herself  up  close,  ‘ whilst,’  said  he,  ‘ I go  and  talk  with  these  dogs  ; and  for  thee,  Christian,  gather 
the  herbs  thou  wantest,  and  go  thy  way  in  peace,  and  God  conduct  thee  safe  to  thy  own  country.’ 
I bowed  to  him,  and  he  left  me  with  Zoraida,  to  go  and  find  out  the  Turks  : she  made  also 
as  if  she  were  going  away,  as  her  father  had  bid  her  ; but  she  was  no  sooner  hid  from  his  sight 
by  the  trees  of  the  garden,  but  she  turned  towards  me  with  her  eyes  full  of  tears,  and  said,  in  her 
language,  Atameji , Christiano,  Atameji ; which  is,  ‘ Thou  art  going  away,  Christian  ; thou  art  going.’ 
To  which  I answered,  ‘ Yes,  madam,  I am,  but  by  no  means  without  you  ; you  may  expect  me  next 
Friday,  and  be  not  surprised  when  you  see  us,  for  we  will  certainly  go  to  the  land  of  the  Christians.’ 
I said  this  so  passionately  that  she  understood  me  ; and  throwing  one  of  her  arms  about  my 
neck,  she  began  to  walk  softly,  and  with  trembling,  towards  the  house.  It  pleased  fortune  that 
as  we  were  in  this  posture  walking  together  (which  might  have  proved  very  unlucky  to  us)  we 
met  Agimorato  coming  back  from  the  Turks,  and  we  perceived  he  had  seen  us  as  we  were;  but 
Zoraida,  very  readily  and  discreetly,  was  so  far  from  taking  away  her  arm  about  my  neck,  that, 
drawing  still  nearer  to  me,  she  leaned  her  head  upon  my  breast,  and,  letting  her  knees  give 
way,  was  in  the  posture  of  one  that  swoons ; I at  the  same  time  made  as  if  I had  much  ado 
to  bear  her  up  against  my  will.  Her  father  came  hastily  to  us,  and,  seeing  his  daughter  in  this 
condition,  asked  her  what  was  the  matter.  But  she  not  answering  readily,  he  presently  said, 
* Without  doubt  those  Turks  have  frightened  her,  and  she  faints  away;’  at  which  he  took  her  in 
his  arms.  She,  as  it  were,  coming  to  herself,  fetched  a deep  sigh,  and,  with  her  eyes  not  yet  dried 
from  tears,  she  said,  in  the  language  she  had  used  before,  ‘ Begone,  Christian;  begone.’  To  which 
her  father  replied,  ‘It  is  no  matter,  child,  whether  he  go  or  no,  he  has  done  thee  no  hurt ; and 
the  Turks,  at  my  request,  are  gone.’ 

‘“It  is  they  who  frightened  her,’  said  I;  ‘but  since  she  desires  I should  be  gone,  I will 
come  another  time  for  my  salad,  by  your  leave ; for  my  master  says  the  herbs  of  your  garden 
are  the  best  of  any  he  can  have.’ 

“ ‘ Thou  mayest  have  what  and  when  thou  wilt,’  said  the  father,  ‘ for  my  daughter  does  not 
think  the  Christians  troublesome  ; she  only  wished  the  Turks  away,  and  by  mistake  bid  thee 


290. 


Zoraida,  showing  trouble  in  her  looks,  went  away  with  her  father.’ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

29O 

beo-one  too.’  With  this  I immediately  took  leave  of  them  both  ; and  Zoraida.  showing  trouble  in 
her  looks,  went  away  with  her  father.  I,  in  the  meantime,  upon  pretence  of  gathering  my  .ter  s 
here  and  there,  walked  all  over  the  garden,  observing  exactly  all  the  places  of  coming  m an 
coiner  out,  and  every  corner  fit  for  my  purpose,  as  well  as  what  strength  there  was  ,n  the  house 
;ith°a,l  other  conveniences  to  facilitate  our  business.  Having  done  this,  I went  my  ways,  and 
cave  an  exact  account  of  all  that  had  happened  to  the  renegade  and  the  rest  of  my  friends, 
Lcinc  earnestly  for  the  time  in  which  I might  promise  myself  my  dear  Zoraida  s company,  w,t  lout 
a„y  fear  of  disturbance.  At  last  the  happy  hour  came,  and  we  had  all  the  good  success  we 
could  promise  ourselves  of  a design  so  well  laid,  for  the  Friday  after  my  discourse  with  Zoraida, 
towards  the  evening,  we  came  to  an  anchor  with  our  barque,  almost  over  against  the  place  where 
mv  loved  mistress  lived;  the  Christians  who  were  employed  at  the  oar  were  alrea  y at  tie 
rendezvous,  and  hid  up  and  down  thereabouts.  They  were  all  in  expectation  of  my  coming,  and 
very  desirous  to  seize  the  barque  which  they  saw  before  their  eyes,  for  they  did  not  know  our 
agreement  with  the  renegade,  but  thought  they  were  by  main  force  to  gam  their  conveyance  an 
their  liberty,  by  killing  the  Moors  on  board.  As  soon  as  I and  my  friends  appeared,  a 1 the  res 
came  from  their  hiding-places  to  us.  By  this  time  the  city  gates  were  shut,  and  no  soul  appeare 
in  all  the  country  near  us.  When  we  were  all  together,  it  was  a question  whether  we  should 
first  fetch  Zoraida,  or  make  ourselves  masters  of  those  few  Moors  in  the  barque.  As  we  were 
in  this  consultation  the  renegade  came  to  us,  and,  asking  if  we  meant  to  stand  idle,  to  us 
his  Moors  were  all  gone  to  rest,  and  most  of  them  asleep.  We  told  him  our  diftict  ty,  and  he 
immediately  said  that  the  most  important  thing  was  to  secure  the  barque,  wli.c  mig  t eas,  > 

done,  and  without  danger,  and  then  we  might  go  for  Zoraida. 

“ We  were  all  of  his  mind,  and  so,  without  more  ado,  he  marched  at  the  ieac  o us  o 
barque,  and,  leaping  into  it,  he  first  drew  a scymitar,  and  cried  aloud,  in  the  Moorish  language^ 

. Let  not  a man  of  you  stir,  except  he  means  it  should  cost  him  his  life  ; and  while  he  1 
this  all  the  other  Christians  were  got  on  board.  The  Moors,  who  are  naturally  timorous,  hearing 
the  master  use  this  language,  were  frightened,  and,  without  any  resistance  suffered  themselves 
to  be  manacled,  which  was  done  with  great  expedition  by  the  Christians,  who  told  them,  at  t 
same  time,  that  if  they  made  the  least  noise  they  would  immediately  cut  their  throats.  This  ei 
done,  and  half  of  our  number  being  left  to  guard  them,  the  remainder,  with  the  renegade  went 
to  Agimorato’s  garden ; and  our  good  fortune  was  such  that,  coming  to  force  t e Satt' 
it  open  with  as  much  facility  as  if  it  had  not  been  shut  at  all.  So  we  marched  on  with  grea 
silence  to  the  house,  without  being  perceived  by  anybody.  The  lovely  Zoraida,  who  was  at 
window,  asked  softly,  upon  hearing  us  tread,  whether  we  were  Nazarini-that  _.s,  Christian, 
1 answered  « Yes ; ’ and  desired  her  to  come  down.  As  soon  as  she  heard  my  voice  s e smy 
not  a minute  ; but,  without  saying  a word,  came  down  and  opened  the  door,  appearing  to  us 
all  like  a goddess,  her  beauty  and  the  richness  of  her  dress  not  being  to  be  descr.  e 
soon  as  I saw  her  1 took  her  by  the  hand,  which  I kissed;  the  renegade  did  the  same,  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


291 

my  friends  ; the  rest  of  the  company  followed  the  same  ceremony,  so  that  we  all  paid  her  a 
kind  of  homage  for  our  liberty.  The  renegade  asked  her,  in  Morisco,  whether  her  father  was 
in  the  garden.  She  said  ‘ Yes,’  and  that  he  was  asleep.  ‘ Then,’  said  he,  ‘ we  must  awake  him,  and 
take  him  with  us,  as  also  all  that  is  valuable  in  the  house.’ 

“ ‘ No,  no,’  said  Zoraida  ; ‘ my  father  must  not  be  touched ; and  in  the  house  there  is  nothing 
so  rich  as  what  I shall  carry  with  me,  which  is  enough  to  make  you  all  rich  and  content.’ 
Having  said  this  she  stepped  into  the  house,  bid  us  be  quiet,  and  she  would  soon  return. 

“ I asked  the  renegade  what  had  passed  between  them,  and  he  told  me  what  he  had  said  ; 
to  which  I replied,  that  by  no  means  was  anything  to  be  done  otherwise  than  as  Zoraida  should 
please.  She  was  already  coming  back  with  a small  trunk  so  full  of  gold  that  she  could  hardly 
carry  it,  when,  to  our  great  misfortune,  while  this  was  doing,  her  father  awoke,  and,  hearing  a 
noise  in  the  garden,  opened  a window  and  looked  out  : having  perceived  that  there  were  Christians 
in  it,  he  began  to  cry  out,  in  Arabic,  ‘ Thieves,  Thieves  ! Christians,  Christians  ! ’ 

“ These  cries  of  his  put  us  all  into  a terrible  disorder  and  fear  ; but  the  renegade,  seeing 
our  danger,  and  how  much  it  imported  us  to  accomplish  our  enterprise  before  we  were  perceived, 
ran  up  to  the  place  where  Agimorato  was,  and  took  with  him  some  of  our  company  ; for  I 
durst  by  no  means  leave  Zoraida,  who  had  swooned  away  in  my  arms.  Those  who  went  up 
bestirred  themselves  so  well  that  they  brought  down  Agimorato  with  his  hands  tied  behind  him,, 
and  his  mouth  stopped  with  a handkerchief,  which  hindered  him  from  so  much  as  speaking  a word  ; 
and  threatening  him,  besides,  that  if  he  made  the  least  attempt  to  speak,  it  should  cost  him  his 
life.  When  his  daughter,  who  was  come  to  herself,  saw  him,  she  covered  her  eyes  to  avoid  the 
sight,  and  her  father  remained  the  more  astonished,  for  he  knew  not  how  willingly  she  had  put 
herself  into  our  hands.  Diligence  on  our  side  being  the  chief  thing  requisite,  we  came  as  speedily 
as  we  could  to  our  barque,  where  our  men  began  to  be  in  pain  for  us,  as  fearing  that  we  had  met 
with  some  ill  accident.  We  got  on  board  about  two  hours  after  it  was  dark  ; where  the  first 
thing  we  did  was  to  untie  the  hands  of  Zoraida’s  father,  and  to  unstop  his  mouth,  but  still  with 
the  same  threatenings  of  the  renegade,  in  case  he  made  any  noise.  When  he  saw  his  daughter 
there  he  began  to  sigh  most  passionately,  and  more  when  he  saw  me  embrace  her  with  tenderness, 
and  that  she,  without  any  resistance  or  struggling,  seemed  to  endure  it ; he,  for  all  this,  was  silent, 
for  fear  the  threatenings  of  the  renegade  should  be  put  in  execution.  Zoraida,  seeing  us  aboard, 
and  that  we  were  ready  to  handle  our  oars  to  be  gone,  bid  the  renegade  tell  me  she  desired 
I would  set  her  father  and  the  other  Moors,  our  prisoners,  on  shore  ; for  else  she  would  throw 
herself  into  the  sea  rather  than  see  a father,  who  had  used  her  so  tenderly,  be  carried  away  captive 
for  her  sake  before  her  eyes.  The  renegade  told  me  what  she  said,  to  which  I agreed  ; but  the 
renegade  was  of  another  opinion  ; saying,  that  if  we  set  them  on  shore  there  they  would  raise 
the  country,  and  give  the  alarm  to  the  city,  by  which  some  light  frigates  might  be  dispatched 
in.  quest  of  us,  and,  getting  between  us  and  the  sea,  it  would  be  impossible  for  us  to  make  our 
escape  ; and  all  that  could  be  done  was  to  set  them  at  liberty  in  the  first  Christian  land  we  could 


« Zoraida  all  this  while  hid  her  face,  that  she  might  not  see  her  father.” — fi.  293 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


293 

reach.  This  ceemed  so  reasonable  to  us  all  that  Zoraida  herself,  being  informed  of  the  motives 
we  had  not  to  obey  her  at  present,  agreed  to  it.  Immediately,  with  great  silence  and  content, 
we  began  to  ply  our  oars,  recommending  ourselves  to  Providence  with  all  our  hearts,  and 
endeavoured  to  make  for  Majorca,  which  is  the  nearest  Christian  land ; but  the  north  wind  rising 
a little,  and  the  sea  with  it,  we  could  not  hold  that  course,  but  were  forced  to  drive  along  shore 
towards  Oran,  not  without  great  fear  of  being  discovered  from  Sargel,  upon  the  coast,  about 
thirty  leagues  from  Algiers.  We  were  likewise  apprehensive  of  meeting  some  of  those  galliots 
which  came  from  Tetuan  with  merchandise  : though,  to  say  truth,  we  did  not  so  much  fear 
these  last ; for,  except  it  were  a cruising  galliot,  we  all  of  us  wished  to  meet  such  a one,  which 
we  should  certainly  take,  and  so  get  a better  vessel  to  transport  us  in.  Zoraida  all  this  while  hid 
her  face  between  my  hands,  that  she  might  not  see  her  father  ; and  I could  hear  her  call  upon 
Lela  Marien  to  help  us.  By  the  time  we  had  got  about  thirty  miles  the  day  broke,  and  we 
found  ourselves  within  a miie  of  the  shore,  which  appeared  to  us  a desert,  solitary  place,  but 
yet  we  rowed  hard  to  get  off  to  sea,  for  fear  of  being  discovered  by  somebody.  When  we  were 
got  about  two  leagues  out  to  sea,  we  proposed  the  men  should  row  by  turns,  that  some  might 
refresh  themselves  ; but  the  men  at  the  oar  said  it  was  not  time  yet  to  rest,  and  that  they  could  eat 
and  row  too,  if  those  who  did  not  row  would  assist  them,  and  give  them  meat  and  drink ; this 
we  did,  and  a little  while  after,  the  wind  blowing  fresh,  we  ceased  rowing,  and  set  sail  for  Oran, 
not  being  able  to  hold  any  other  course.  We  made  above  eight  miles  an  hour,  being  in  no 
fear  of  anything  but  meeting  some  cruisers.  We  gave  victuals  to  our  Moorish  prisoners,  and  the 
renegade  comforted  them,  and  told  them  they  were  not  slaves,  but  that  they  should  be  set  at 
liberty  upon  the  first  opportunity.  The  same  was  said  to  Zoraida’s  father,  who  answered,  ' I 
might  expect  from  your  courtesy  anything  else  perhaps,  O Christians ; but  that  you  should  give 
me  my  liberty  I am  not  simple  enough  to  believe  it ; for  you  never  would  have  run  the  hazard  of 
taking  it  from  me,  if  you  intended  to  restore  it  me  so  easily,  especially  since  you  know  who  I am, 
and  what  you  may  get  for  my  ransom,  which,  if  you  will  but  name,  I do  from  this  moment  offer  you 
all  that  you  can  desire  for  me  and  for  that  unfortunate  daughter  of  mine,  or  for  her  alone,  since  she 
is  the  better  part  of  me.’ 

“ When  he  had  said  this,  he  burst  out  into  tears  so  violently  that  Zoraida  could  not  forbear 
looking  up  at  him,  and  indeed  he  moved  compassion  in  us  all,  but  in  her  particularly  ; insomuch  as, 
starting  from  my  arms,  she  flew  to  her  father’s,  and,  putting  her  head  to  his,  they  began  again  so 
passionate  and  tender  a scene  that  most  of  us  could  not  forbear  accompanying  their  grief  with  our 
tears  ; but  her  father,  seeing  her  so  richly  dressed,  and  so  many  jewels  about  her,  said  to  her  in  his 
language,  ‘ \V  hat  is  the  meaning  of  this,  daughter  ? For  last  night,  before  this  terrible  misfortune 
bcfeil  us,  thou  wert  in  thy  ordinary  dress ; and  now,  without  scarce  having  had  the  time  to  put  on 
such  things,  I see  thee  adorned  with  all  the  fineries  that  I could  give  thee,  if  we  were  at  liberty  and 
in  full  prosperity.  This  gives  me  more  wonder  and  trouble  than  even  our  sad  misfortune  ; therefore, 
answer  me.'  The  renegade  interpreted  all  that  the  Moor  said,  and  we  saw  that  Zoraida  answered 


294 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


not  one  word  ; but,  on  a sudden,  spying  the  little  casket  in  which  she  used  to  put  her  jewels,  which 
he  thought  had  been  left  in  Algiers,  he  remained  yet  more  astonished,  and  asked  her  how  that  trunk 
could  come  into  our  hands,  and  what  was  in  it ; to  which  the  renegade,  without  expecting  Zoraida’s 
answer,  replied,  4 Do  not  trouble  thyself  to  ask  thy  daughter  so  many  questions,  for  with  one  word  I 
can  satisfy  them  all.  Know  then  that  she  is  a Christian,  and  it  is  she  that  has  filed  off  our  chains,, 
and  given  us  liberty  ; she  is  with  us  by  her  own  consent,  and  I hope  well  pleased,  as  people 
should  be  who  come  from  darkness  into  light,  and  from  death  to  life.’ 

“‘Is  this  true,  daughter  ? ’ said  the  Moor. 

“‘It  is,’  replied  Zoraida. 

“ 4 How  then,’  said  the  old  man,  4 art  thou  really  a Christian  ? and  art  thou  she  that  has  put 
thy  father  into  the  power  of  his  enemies  ? ’ 

“To  which  Zoraida  replied,  4 1 am  she  that  is  a Christian,  but  not  she  that  has  brought  thee 
into  this  condition,  for  my  design  never  was  to  injure  my  father,  but  only  to  do  myself  good.’ 

“ 4 And  what  good  hast  thou  done  thyself  ? ’ said  the  Moor. 

4 4 4 Ask  that  of  Lela  Marien,’  replied  Zoraida,  4 for  she  can  tell  thee  best. 

44  The  old  man  had  no  sooner  heard  this  but  he  threw  himself,  with  incredible  fury,  into  the 
sea,  where,  without  doubt,  he  had  been  drowned,  had  not  his  garments,  which  were  long  and  wide,, 
kept  him  some  time  above  water.  Zoraida  cried  out  to  us  to  help  him,  which  we  all  did  so  readily, 
that  we  pulled  him  out  by  his  vest,  but  half  drowned,  and  without  any  sense.  This  so  troubled 
Zoraida  that  she  threw  herself  upon  her  father,  and  began  to  lament  and  take  on  as  if  he  had  been 
really  dead.  We  turned  his  head  downwards,  and  by  this  means,  having  disgorged  a great  deal  of 
water,  he  recovered  a little  in  about  two  hours’  time.  The  wind  in  the  meanwhile  was  come  about, 
and  forced  us  toward  the  shore,  so  that  we  were  obliged  to  ply  our  oars  not  to  be  driven  upon  the 
land.  It  was  our  good  fortune  to  get  into  a small  bay,  which  is  made  by  a promontory  called  the 
Cape  of  the  Caba  Rumia — which,  in  our  tongue,  is  4 the  Cape  of  the  wicked  Christian  woman  ; ’ 
and  it  is  a tradition  among  the  Moors  that  Caba,  the  daughter  of  Count  Julian,  who  was  the  cause 
of  the  loss  of  Spain,  lies  buried  there;  and  they  think  it  ominous  to  be  forced  into  that  bay,  for  they 
never  go  in  otherwise  than  by  necessity  : but  to  us  it  was  no  unlucky  harbour,  but  a safe  retreat, 
considering  how  high  the  sea  went  by  this  time.  We  posted  our  sentries  on  shore,  but  kept  our 
oars  ready  to  be  plied  upon  occasion,  taking  in  the  meantime  some  refreshment  of  what  the 
renegade  had  provided,  praying  heartily  to  God  and  the  Virgin  Mary  to  protect  us,  and  help  us  to 
bring  our  design  to  a happy  conclusion.  Here,  at  the  desire  of  Zoraida,  we  resolved  to  set  her 
father  on  shore  with  all  the  other  Moors,  whom  we  kept  fast  bound  ; for  she  had  not  courage,  nor 
could  her  tender  heart  suffer  any  longer  to  see  her  father  and  her  countrymen  ill  used  before  her 
face  ; but  we  did  not  think  to  do  it  before  we  were  just  ready  to  depart,  and  then  they  could  not 
much  hurt  us,  the  place  being  a solitary  one,  and  no  habitations  near  it.  Our  prayers  were  not  in 
vain  ; the  wind  fell  and  the  sea  became  calm,  inviting  us  thereby  to  pursue  our  intended  voyage  : 
we  unbound  our  prisoners,  and  set  them  on  shore  one  by  one,  which  they  were  mightily 
astonished  at.  - - 


296 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ When  we  came  to  put  Zoraida’s  father  on  shore,  who  by  this  time  was  come  to  himself,  he 
said,  ‘ Why  do  you  think,  Christians,  that  this  wicked  woman  desires  I should  be  set  at  liberty  ? 
do  you  think  it  is  for  any  pity  she  takes  of  me  ? No,  certainly,  but  it  is  because  she  is  not  able  to 
bear  my  presence,  which  hinders  the  prosecution  of  her  ill  desires.  I would  not  have  you  think 
neither  that  she  has  embraced  your  religion  because  she  knows  the  difference  between  yours  and 
ours,  but  because  she  has  heard  that  she  may  live  more  loosely  in  your  country  than  at  home.’ 
And  then  turning  himself  to  Zoraida,  while  I and  another  held  him  fast  by  the  arms,  that  he  might 
commit  no  extravagance,  he  said,  ‘ Oh,  infamous  and  blind  young  woman,  where  art  thou  going,  in 
the  power  of  these  dogs,  our  natural  enemies  ? Cursed  be  the  hour  in  which  I begot  thee,  and 
the  care  and  affection  with  which  I bred  thee!’ 

“ But  I,  seeing  he  was  not  like  to  make  an  end  of  his  exclamations  soon,  made  haste  to  set 
him  on  shore,  from  whence  he  continued  to  give  us  his  curses  and  imprecations ; begging,  on  his 
knees,  of  Mahomet  to  beg  of  God  Almighty  to  confound  and  destroy  us.  And  when,  being  under 
sail,  we  could  no  longer  hear  him,  we  saw  his  actions,  which  were  tearing  his  hair  and  beard,  and 
rolling  himself  upon  the  ground  : but  he  once  strained  his  voice  so  high  that  we  heard  what  he  said, 
which  was,  * Come  back,  my  dear  daughter,  for  I forgive  thee  all  ; let  those  men  have  the  treasure 
which  is  already  in  their  possession,  and  do  thou  return  to  comfort  thy  disconsolate  father,  who 
must  else  lose  his  life  in  these  sandy  deserts ! ’ 

“ All  this  Zoraida  heard,  and  shed  abundance  of  tears,  but  could  answer  nothing,  but  beg  that 
Lela  Marien,  who  had  made  her  a Christian,  would  comfort  him.  ‘ God  knows,’  said  she,  ‘ I could 
not  avoid  doing  what  I have  done  ; and  that  these  Christians  are  not  obliged  to  me,  for  I could  not 
be  at  rest  till  I had  done  this,  which  to  thee,  dear  father,  seems  so  ill  a thing.’  All  this  she  said 
when  we  were  got  so  far  out  of  his  hearing  that  we  could  scarce  so  much  as  see  him.  So  I 
comforted  Zoraida  as  well  as  I could,  and  we  all  minded  our  voyage.  The  wind  was  now  so  right 
for  our  purpose  that  we  made  no  doubt  of  being  the  next  morning  upon  the  Spanish  shore ; but  as 
it  seldom  happens  that  any  felicity  comes  so  pure  as  not  to  be  tempered  and  alloyed  by  some 
mixture  of  sorrow,  either  our  ill  fortune  or  the  Moor’s  curses  had  such  an  effect — for  a father’s 
curses  are  to  be  dreaded,  let  the  father  be  what  he  will — that  about  midnight,  when  we  were  under 
full  sail,  with  our  oars  laid  by,  we  saw,  by  the  light  of  the  moon,  hard  by  us  a round-sterned  vessel, 
with  all  her  sails  out,  coming  a-head  of  us,  which  she  did  so  close  to  us  that  we  were  forced  to 
strike  our  sail,  not  to  run  foul  of  her  ; and  the  vessel  likewise  seemed  to  endeavour  to  let  us  go 
by.  They  had  come  so  near  as  to  ask  from  whence  we  came,  and  whither  we  were  going.  But, 
doing  it  in  French,  the  renegade  forbade  us  to  answer,  saying,  ‘ Without  doubt  these  are  French 
pirates,  to  whom  everything  is  prize.’  This  made  us  all  be  silent ; and,  as  we  sailed  on,  they  being 
under  the  wind,  fired  two  guns  at  us,  both,  as  it  appeared,  with  chain-shot,  for  one  brought  our  mast 
by  the  board,  and  the  other  went  through  us  without  killing  anybody  ; but  we,  perceiving  we  were 
sinking,  called  to  them  to  come  and  take  us,  for  we  were  going  to  be  drowned.  They  then  struck 
their  own  sails,  and,  putting  out  their  boat,  there  came  about  a dozen  French  on  board  us,  all  well 


33 


They  being  under  the  wind,  fired  two  guns  at  us.” — p.  296. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


295 

armed,  and  with  their  matches  lighted.  When  they  were  close  to  us,  seeing  we  were  but  few,  they 
took  us  a-board  their  boat,  saying  that  this  had  happened  to  us  for  not  answering  their  questions. 

“ When  we  were  on  board  their  vessel,  after  having  learnt  from  us  all  they  could,  they  began 
to  strip  us,  as  if  we  had  been  their  mortal  enemies  : they  plundered  Zoraida  of  all  the  jewels  and 
bracelets  she  had  on  her  hands  and  feet  ; and  even  took  our  slaves’  clothes.  They  then  con- 
sulted what  to  do  with  us  : some  were  of  opinion  to  throw  us  overboard,  wrapped  up  in  a sail, 
because  they  intended  to  put  into  some  ot  the  Spanish  ports,  under  the  notion  of  being  of 
Brittany  ; and  if  they  carried  us  with  them  they  might  be  punished,  and  their  roguery  come  to 
light  : but  the  captain,  who  thought  himself  rich  enough  with  Zoraida’s  plunder,  said  he  would 
not  touch  at  any  port  of  Spain,  but  make  his  way  through  the  Straits  by  night,  and  so  return 
to  Rochelle,  from  whence  he  came.  This  being  resolved,  they  bethought  themselves  of  giving  us 
their  long  boat,  and  what  provision  we  might  want  for  our  short  passage.  As  soon  as  it  was  day,  and 
we  had  descried  the  Spanish  shore — at  which  sight,  so  desirable  a thing  is  liberty,  all  our  miseries 
vanished  from  our  thoughts  in  a moment — they  began  to  prepare  things,  and  about  noon  they  put 
us  on  board,  giving  us  two  barrels  of  water,  and  a small  quantity  of  biscuit ; and  the  captain, 
touched  with  some  remorse  for  the  lovely  Zoraida,  gave  her,  at  parting,  about  forty  crowns  in  gold, 
and  would  not  suffer  his  men  to  take  from  her  those  clothes  which  now  she  has  on.  We  went 
aboard,  showing  ourselves  rather  thankful  than  complaining.  They  got  out  to  sea,  making  for  the 
Straits,  and  we,  having  the  land  before  us  for  our  north  star,  plied  our  oars,  so  that  about  sunset 
we  were  near  enough  to  have  landed  before  it  was  quite  dark  ; but  considering  the  moon  was  hid 
in  clouds,  and  the  heavens  were  growing  dark,  and  we  ignorant  of  the  shore,  we  did  not  think  it 
safe  to  venture  on  it,  though  many  among  us  were  so  desirous  of  liberty,  and  to  be  out  of  all 
danger,  that  they  would  have  landed,  though  on  a rock  ; and  by  that  means,  at  least,  we  might  avoid 
all  little  barques  of  the  pirates  of  the  Barbary  coast,  such  as  those  of  Tetuan,  who  come  from  home 
when  it  is  dark,  and  by  morning  are  early  upon  the  Spanish  coast,  where  they  often  make  a prize, 
and  go  home  to  bed  the  same  day.  But  the  other  opinion  prevailed,  which  was  to  row  gently  on, 
and,  if  the  sea  and  shore  gave  leave,  to  land  quietly  where  we  could.  We  did  accordingly,  and 
about  midnight  we  came  under  a great  hill,  which  had  a sandy  shore,  convenient  enough  for  our 
landing.  Here  we  ran  our  boat  in  as  far  as  we  could,  and,  being  got  on  land,  we  all  kissed  it  for 
joy,  and  thanked  God  with  tears  for  our  deliverance.  This  done,  we  took  out  the  little  provision 
we  had  left,  and  climbed  up  the  mountain,  thinking  ourselves  more  in  safety  there  ; for  we  could 
hardly  persuade  ourselves  nor  believe  that  the  land  we  were  upon  was  the  Christian  shore. 

“We  thought  the  day  long  a-coming,  and  then  we  got  to  the  top  of  the  hill,  to  see  if  we  could 
discover  any  habitations  ; but  we  could  nowhere  descry  either  house,  or  person,  or  path.  We 
resolved,  however,  to  go  farther  on,  thinking  we  could  not  miss  at  last  of  somebody  to  inform 
us  where  we  were.  That  which  troubled  me  most  was  to  see  my  poor  Zoraida  go  on  foot  among 
the  sharp  rocks,  and  I would  sometimes  have  carried  her  on  my  shoulders  ; but  she  was  as  much 
concerned  at  the  pains  I took  as  she  could  be  at  what  she  endured,  so,  leaning  on  me,  she  went  on 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


299 


with  much  patience  and  content.  When  we  were  gone  about  a quarter  of  a league  we  heard  the 
sound  of  a little  pipe,  which  we  took  to  be  a certain  sign  of  some  flock  near  us  ; and,  looking  well 
about,  we  perceived  at  last,  at  the  foot  of  a cork-tree,  a young  shepherd  who  was  cutting  a stick 
with  his  knife  with  great  attention  and  seriousness.  We  called  to  him,  and  he,  having  looked  up, 
ran  away  as  hard  as  he  could.  It  seems,  as  we  afterwards  heard,  the  first  he  saw  were  the 
renegade  and  Zoraida,  who,  being  in  the  Moorish  dress,  he  thought  all  the  Moors  in  Barbary  were 
upon  him  ; and,  running  into  the  wood,  cried  all  the  way  as  loud  as  he  could,  ‘ Moors,  Moors  ! arm, 
arm!  the  Moors  are  landed!’  We,  hearing  this  outcry,  did  not  well  know  what  to  do;  but, 
considering  that  the  shepherd’s  roaring  would  raise  the  country,  and  the  horse-guard  of  the  coast 
would  be  upon  us,  we  agreed  that  the  renegade  should  pull  off  his  Turkish  habit,  and  put  on  a 
slave’s  coat,  which  one  of  us  lent  him,  though  he  that  lent  it  him  remained  in  his  shirt.  Thus, 
recommending  ourselves  to  God,  we  went  on  by  the  same  way  that  the  shepherd  ran,  still 
expecting  when  the  horse  would  come  upon  us ; and  we  were  not  deceived,  for  in  less  than  two 
hours,  as  we  came  down  the  hills  into  a plain,  we  discovered  about  fifty  horse  coming  up  on 
a half-gallop  towards  us  : when  we  saw  that,  we  stood  still,  expecting  them. 

“ As  soon  as  they  came  up,  and,  instead  of  so  many  Moors,  saw  so  many  poor  Christian 
captives,  they  were  astonished.  One  of  them  asked  us  if  we  were  the  occasion  of  the  alarm  that 
a young  shepherd  had  given  the  country.  ‘ Yes,’  said  I,  and  upon  that  began  to  tell  him  who  we 
were,  and  whence  we  came  ; but  one  of  our  company  knew  the  horseman  that  had  asked  us  the 
question,  and.  without  letting  me  go  on,  said,  ‘ God  be  praised,  gentlemen,  for  bringing  us  to  so 
good  a part  of  the  country,  for,  if  I mistake  not,  we  are  near  Velez  Malaga  ; and  if  the  many 
years  of  my  captivity  have  not  taken  my  memory  from  me  too,  I think  that  you,  sir,  who  ask 
us  these  questions,  are  my  uncle  Don  Pedro  Bustamente.’ 

“ The  Christian  slave  had  hardly  said  this,  but  the  gentleman,  lighting  from  his  horse,  came 
hastily  to  embrace  the  young  slave,  saying,  ‘Dear  nephew!  my  joy,  my  life!  I know  thee,  and 
have  often  lamented  thy  loss,  and  so  has  thy  mother  and  thy  other  relations,  whom  thou  wilt 
yet  find  alive.  God  has  preserved  them  that  they  may  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  thee.  We 
had  heard  thou  wert  in  Algiers,  and,  by  what  I see  of  thy  dress,  and  that  of  all  this  company, 
you  must  all  have  had  some  miraculous  deliverance.’  ‘ It  is  so,’  replied  the  young  man  ; ‘ and 
we  shall  have  time  enough  now  to  tell  all  our  adventures.’ 

“ The  rest  of  the  horsemen,  hearing  we  were  Christians  escaped  from  slavery,  lighted  likewise 
from  their  horses,  offering  them  to  us  to  carry  us  to  the  city  of  Velez  Malaga,  which  was  about 
a league  and  a half  off.  Some  of  them  went  where  we  had  left  our  boat,  and  got  it  into  the 
port,  while  others  took  us  up  behind  them  ; and  Zoraida  rode  behind  the  gentleman,  uncle  to 
our  captive.  All  the  people,  who  had  already  heard  something  of  our  adventure,  came  out  to 
meet  us.  They  did  not  wonder  to  see  captives  at  liberty,  nor  Moors  prisoners,  for  on  all  that 
coast  they  are  used  to  it ; but  they  were  astonished  at  the  beauty  of  Zoraida,  which  at  that 
instant  seemed  to  be  at  its  point  of  perfection  ; for,  what  with  the  agitation  of  travelling,  and 


303 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


what  with  the  joy  of  being  safe  in  Christendom,  without  the  terrible  thought  of  being  re-taken, 
she  had  such  a beautiful  colour  in  her  countenance,  that  were  it  not  for  fear  of  being  too  partial, 
I durst  say  there  was  not  a more  beautiful  creature  in  the  world,  at  least  that  I had  seen. 
We  went  straight  to  church,  to  thank  God  for  his  great  mercy  to  us ; and  when  we  came 
into  it,  and  Zoraida  had  looked  upon  the  pictures,  she  said  there  were  several  faces  there  that 
were  like  Lela  Marien’s.  We  told  her  they  were  her  pictures,  and  the  renegade  explained  to 
her,  as  well  as  he  could,  the  story  of  them;  and  she,  who  has  a good  and  clear  understanding, 
comprehended  immediately  all  that  was  said  about  the  pictures  and  images. 

“ After  this  we  were  dispersed,  and  lodged  in  different  houses  of  the  town  ; but  the  young 
slave  of  Velez  carried  me,  Zoraida,  and  the  renegade  to  his  father’s  house,  where  we  were 
accommodated  pretty  well,  according  to  their  ability,  and  used  with  as  much  kindness  as  their 
own  son.  After  six  days’  stay  at  Velez,  the  renegade,  having  informed  himself  of  what  was 
needful  for  him  to  know,  went  away  to  Granada,  there  to  be  re-admitted  by  the  Holy  Inquisition 
into  the  bosom  of  the  Church.  The  other  Christians,  being  at  liberty,  went  each  whither  he 
thought  fit.  Zoraida  and  I remained  without  other  help  than  the  forty  crowns  the  pirate  gave 
her,  with  which  I bought  the  ass  she  rides  on,  and,  since  we  landed,  have  acted  towards 
her  as  a father  and  a friend.  We  are  now  going  to  see  whether  my  father  be  alive, 
or  if  either  of  my  brothers  has  had  better  fortune  than  I ; though,  since  it  hath  pleased  Heaven 
to  give  me  Zoraida,  and  make  me  her  companion,  I reckon  no  better  fortune  could  befall  me. 
The  patience  with  which  she  bears  the  inconvenience  of  poverty,  the  desire  she  shows  of  being 
made  a Christian,  do  give  me  subject  of  continual  admiration,  and  oblige  me  to  serve  and  love 
her  all  the  days  of  my  life.  I confess  the  expectation  of  being  hers  is  not  a little  alloyed 
with  the  uncertainties  of  knowing  whether  I shail  rind  in  my  country  any  one  to  receive  us,  or 
a corner  to  pass  my  life  with  her  ; and  perhaps  time  will  have  so  altered  the  affairs  of  our 
family,  that  I shall  not  find  anybody  that  will  know  me,  if  my  father  and  brothers  are  dead. 

“ That  is,  gentlemen,  the  sum  of  my  adventures,  which,  whether  or  no  they  are  entertaining, 
you  are  best  judges.” 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 

AN  ACCOUNT  OF  WHAT  HAPPENED  IN  THE  INN,  WITH  SEVERAL  OTHER  OCCURRENCES  WORTH  NOTICE. 

HERE  the  stranger  ended  his  story,  and  Don  Ferdinand,  by  way  of  compliment,  in  the 
behalf  of  the  whole  company,  said,  “Truly,  captain,  the  wonderful  and  surprising  turns 
of  your  fortune  are  not  only  entertaining,  but  the  pleasing  and  graceful  manner  of  your  relation  is  as 
extraordinary  as  the  adventures  themselves.  We  are  all  bound  to  pay  you  our  acknowledgments, 
and  I believe  we  could  be  delighted  with  a second  recital,  though  it  were  to  last  till  to-morrow, 
provided  it  were  made  by  you.” 

Cardenio  and  the  rest  of  the  company  joined  with  him  in  offering  their  utmost  service  in  the 
re-establishment  of  his  fortune,  and  that  with  so  much  sincerity  and  earnestness,  that  the  captain 
had  reason  to  be  satisfied  of  their  affection.  Don  Ferdinand  particularly  proposed  to  engage 
the  marquis,  his  brother,  to  stand  godfather  to  Zoraida,  if  he  would  return  with  him  ; and,  further, 
promised  to  provide  him  with  all  things  necessary  to  support  his  figure  and  quality  in  town  ; but 
the  captain,  making  them  a very  handsome  compliment  for  their  obliging  favours,  excused  himself 
from  accepting  those  kind  offers  at  that  time. 

It  was  now  growing  towards  the  dark  of  the  evening,  when  a coach  stopped  at  the  inn,  and 


302 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


with  it  some  horsemen,  who  asked  for  a lodging.  The  hostess  answered  they  were  as  full  as 
they  could  pack. 

“ Were  you  ten  times  fuller,”  answered  one  of  the  horsemen,  “ there  must  be  room  made  here 
for  my  Lord  Judge,  who  is  in  this  coach.” 

The  hostess,  hearing  this,  was  very  much  concerned : said  she,  “ The  case,  sir,  is  plain  : we 
have  not  one  bed  empty  in  the  house  ; but  if  his  lordship  brings  a bed  with  him,  as  perhaps  he 
may,  he  shall  command  my  house  with  all  my  heart,  and  I and  my  husband  will  quit  our  own 
chamber  to  serve  him.” 

“ Do  so,  then,”  said  the  man  ; and  by  this  time  a gentleman  alighted  from  the  coach,  easily 
distinguishable  for  a man  of  dignity  and  office,  by  his  long  gown  and  great  sleeves.  He  led  a young 
lady  by  the  hand,  about  sixteen  years  of  age,  dressed  in  a riding  suit ; her  beauty  and  charming  air 
attracted  the  eyes  of  everybody  with  admiration,  and  had  not  the  other  ladies  been  present,  any  one 
might  have  thought  it  difficult  to  have  matched  her  outward  graces. 

Don  Quixote,  seeing  them  come  near  the  door,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ you  may  enter  undismayed, 
and  refresh  yourself  in  this  castle,  which,  though  little,  and  indifferently  provided,  must  nevertheless 
allow  a room,  and  afford  accommodation  to  arms  and  learning ; and  more  especially  to  arms 
and  learning  that,  like  yours,  bring  beauty  for  their  guide  and  conductor.  For,  certainly,  at  the 
approach  of  this  lovely  damsel,  not  only  castles  ought  to  open  and  expand  their  gates,  but  even 
rocks  divide  their  solid  bodies,  and  mountains  bow  their  ambitious  crests  and  stoop  to  entertain 
her.  Come  in,  therefore,  sir ; enter  this  paradise,  where  you  shall  find  a bright  constellation 
worthy  to  shine  i n conjunction  with  that  heaven  of  beauty  which  you  bring.  Here  shall  you 
find  arms  in  their  height,  and  beauty  in  perfection.” 

Don  Quixote’s  speech,  mien,  and  garb  put  the  judge  to  a strange  nonplus  ; and  he  was  not 
a little  surprised,  on  the  other  hand,  at  the  sudden  appearance  of  the  three  ladies,  who,  being 
informed  of  the  judge’s  coming,  and  the  young  lady’s  beauty,  were  come  out  to  see  and  entertain 
her.  But  Don  Ferdinand,  Cardenio,  and  the  curate,  addressing  him  in  a style  very  different 
from  the  knight,  soon  convinced  him  that  he  had  to  do  with  gentlemen,  and  persons  of  note, 
though  Don  Quixote’s  figure  and  behaviour  put  him  to  a stand,  not  being  able  to  make  any 
reasonable  conjecture  of  his  extravagance.  After  the  usual  civilities  passed  on  both  sides,  they 
found,  upon  examination,  that  the  women  must  all  lie  together  in  Don  Quixote’s  apartment, 
and  the  men  remain  without  to  guard  them.  The  judge  consented  that  his  daughter  should  go 
with  the  ladies,  and  so,  what  with  his  own  bed,  and  what  with  the  innkeeper’s,  he  and  the 
gentlemen  made  a shift  to  pass  the  night. 

The  captain,  upon  the  first  sight  of  the  judge,  had  a strong  presumption  that  he  was  one 
of  his  brothers,  and  presently  asked  one  of  his  servants  his  name  and  country.  1 he  fellow  told 
him  his  name  was  Juan  Peres  de  Viedma,  and  that,  as  he  was  informed,  he  was  born  in  the 
Highlands  of  Leon.  This,  with  his  own  observation,  confirmed  his  opinion  that  this  was  the 
brother  who  had  made  study  his  choice;  whereupon,  calling  aside  Don  Ferdinand,  Cardenio,  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


303 


the  curate,  he  told  them,  with  great  joy,  what  he  had  learned,  with  what  the  servant  further 
told  him,  that  his  master,  being  made  a judge  of  the  court  of  Mexico,  was  then  upon  his  journey 
to  the  Indies ; that  the  young  lady  was  his  only  daughter,  whose  mother  settled  her  dowry 
upon  her  daughter  for  her  portion,  and  that  the  father  had  still  lived  a widower,  and  was  very  rich. 
Upon  the  whole  matter  he  asked  their  advice,  whether  they  thought  it  proper  for  him  to  discover 
himself  presently  to  his  brother,  or  whether  he  should  by  some  means  try  how  his  pulse  beat 
first  in  relation  to  his  loss,  by  which  he  might  guess  at  his  reception. 

“ Why  should  you  doubt  of  a kind  one,  sir  ? ” said  the  curate. 

“ Because  I am  poor,  sir,”  said  the  captain,  “ and  would  therefore  by  some  device  fathom  his 
affections ; for,  should  he  prove  ashamed  to  own  me,  I should  be  more  ashamed  to  discover 
myself.” 

“ Then  leave  the  management  to  me,”  said  the  curate.  “ The  affable  and  courteous  behaviour 
of  the  judge  seems  to  me  so  very  far  from  pride,  that  you  need  not  doubt  a welcome  reception  ; 
but,  however,  because  you  desire  it,  I will  engage  to  find  a way  to  sound  him.” 

Supper  was  now  upon  the  table,  and  all  the  gentlemen  sat  down  but  the  captain,  who  ate 
with  the  ladies  in  the  next  room.  When  the  company  had  half  supped,  “ My  Lord  Judge,”  said 
the  curate,  “ I remember  that  some  years  ago  I was  happy  in  the  acquaintance  and  friendship 
of  a gentleman  of  your  name,  when  I was  a prisoner  in  Constantinople.  He  was  a captain  of 
as  much  worth  and  courage  asany  in  the  Spanish  infantry,  but  as  unfortunate  as  brave.” 

“ What  was  his  name,  pray,  sir  ? ” said  the  judge. 

“ Ruy  Peres  de  Viedma,”  answered  the  curate,  “ of  a town  in  the  mountains  of  Leon.  I 
remember  he  told  me  a very  odd  passage  between  his  father,  his  two  brothers,  and  himself ; and 

truly,  had  it  come  from  any  man  of  less  credit  and  reputation,  I should  have  thought  it  no  more 

than  a story.  He  said  that  his  father  made  an  equal  dividend  of  his  estate  among  his  three 
sons,  giving  them  such  advice  as  might  have  fitted  the  mouth  of  Cato  ; that  he  made  arms  his 
choice,  and  with  such  success,  that  within  a few  years,  by  the  pure  merit  of  his  bravery,  he  was 
made  captain  of  a foot  company,  and  had  a fair  prospect  of  being  advanced  to  a colonel  ; but 
his  fortune  forsook  him  where  he  had  most  reason  to  expect  her  favour,  for  in  the  memorable 
battle  of  Lepanto,  where  so  many  Christians  recovered  their  liberty,  he,  unfortunately,  lost  his. 
I was  taken  at  Goletta,  and,  after  different  turns  of  fortune,  we  became  companions  at 
Constantinople ; thence  we  were  carried  to  Algiers,  where  one  of  the  strangest  adventures  in  the 
world  befell  this  gentleman.”  The  curate  then  briefly  ran  through  the  whole  story  of  the  captain 
and  Zoraida  (the  judge  sitting  all  the  time  more  attentive  than  he  ever  did  on  the  bench),  to 
their  being  taken  and  stripped  by  the  French  ; and  that  he  had  heard  nothing  of  them  after  that, 
nor  could  ever  learn  whether  they  came  into  Spain,  or  were  carried  prisoners  into  France. 

The  captain  stood  listening  in  a corner,  and  observed  the  motions  of  his  brother’s  countenance 
while  the  curate  told  his  story  ; which,  when  he  had  finished,  the  judge  breathing  out  a deep 

sigh,  and  the  tears  standing  in  his  eyes,  “ Oh,  sir,”  said  he,  “ if  you  knew  how  nearly  your 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


3°4 

relation  touches  me,  you  would  easily  excuse  the  violent  eruption  of  these  tears.  The  captain 
you  spoke  of  is  my  eldest  brother,  who,  being  of  a stronger  constitution  of  body,  and  more  elevated 
soul,  made  the  glory  and  fame  of  war  his  choice,  which  was  one  of  the  three  proposals  made  by 
my  father,  as  your  companion  told  you.  I applied  myself  to  study,  and  my  younger  brother  has 
purchased  a vast  estate  in  Peru,  out  of  which  he  has  transmitted  to  my  father  enough  to  support 
his  liberal  disposition,  and  to  me  wherewithal  to  continue  my  studies  and  advance  myself  to  the 
rank  and  authority  which  I now  maintain.  My  father  is  still  alive,  but  dies  daily  for  grief  that  he 
can  learn  nothing  of  his  eldest  son,  and  importunes  Heaven  incessantly  that  he  may  once  more 
see  him  before  death  close  his  eyes.  It  is  very  strange,  considering  his  discretion  in  other 
matters,  that  neither  prosperity  nor  adversity  could  draw  one  line  from  him,  to  give  his  father 
an  account  of  his  fortunes.  For  had  he  or  we  had  the  least  hint  of  his  captivity,  he  needed 
not  have  stayed  for  the  miracle  of  the  Moorish  lady’s  cane  for  his  deliverance.  Now  am  I in  the 
greatest  uneasiness  in  the  world,  lest  the  French,  the  better  to  conceal  their  robbery,  may  have 
killed  him ; the  thoughts  of  this  will  damp  the  pleasure  of  my  voyage,  which  I thought  to 
prosecute  so  pleasantly.  Could  I but  guess,  dear  brother,”  continued  he,  “ where  you  might  be 
found,  I would  hazard  life  and  fortune  for  your  deliverance  ! Could  our  aged  father  once 
understand  you  were  alive,  though  hidden  in  the  deepest  and  darkest  dungeon  in  Barbary,  his 
estate,  mine,  and  my  brother’s,  all  should  fly  for  your  ransom  ! And  for  the  fair  and  liberal 
Zoraida  what  thanks,  what  recompense  could  we  provide  ? Oh,  might  I see  the  happy  day  of  her 
spiritual  birth  and  baptism  ; to  see  her  joined  to  him  in  faith  and  marriage,  how  should  we  all 
rejoice ! ” These  and  such  like  expressions  the  judge  uttered  with  so  much  passion  and 
vehemency  that  he  raised  a concern  in  everybody. 

The  curate,  foreseeing  the  happy  success  of  his  design,  resolved  to  prolong  the  discovery  no 
farther  ; and,  to  free  the  company  from  suspense,  he  went  to  the  ladies’  room,  and,  leading  out 
Zoraida,  followed  by  the  rest,  he  took  the  captain  by  the  other  hand,  and,  presenting  them  to  the 
judge,  “ Suppress  your  grief,  my  lord,”  said  he,  “ and  glut  your  heart  with  joy.  Behold  what  you 
so  passionately  desired,  your  dear  brother  and  his  fair  deliverer  ; this  gentleman  is  Captain  Viedma, 
and  this  the  beautiful  Algerine.  The  French  have  only  reduced  them  to  this  low  condition  to 
make  room  for  your  generous  sentiments  and  liberality.” 

The  captain  then  approaching  to  embrace  the  judge,  he  held  him  off  with  both  his  hands  to 
view  him  well,  but,  once  knowing  him,  he  flew  into  his  arms  with  such  affection,  and  such 
abundance  of  tears,  that  all  the  spectators  sympathised  in  his  passions.  The  brothers  spoke  so 
feelingly,  and  their  mutual  affection  was  so  moving,  the  surprise  so  wonderful,  and  their  joy  so 
transporting,  that  it  must  be  left  purely  to  imagination  to  conceive.  Now  they  tell  one  another  the 
strange  turns  and  mazes  of  their  fortunes,  then  renew  their  caresses  to  the  height  of  brotherly 
tenderness.  Now  the  judge  embraces  Zoraida,  then  makes  her  an  offer  of  his  whole  fortune  ; next 
makes  his  daughter  embrace  her  ; then  the  sweet  and  innocent  converse  of  the  beautiful  Christian 
and  the  lovely  Moor  so  touched  the  whole  company'  that  they  all  wept  for  joy. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


305 


In  the  meantime  Don  Quixote  was  very  solidly  attentive,  and,  wondering  at  these  strange 
occurrences,  attributed  them  purely  to  something  answerable  to  the  chimerical  notions  which  are 
incident  to  chivalry.  The  captain  and  Zoraida,  in  concert  with  the  whole  company,  resolved  to 
return  with  their  brother  to  Seville,  and  thence  to  advise  their  father  of  his  arrival  and  liberty,  that 
the  old  gentleman  might  make  the  best  shift  he  could  to  get  so  far  to  see  the  baptism  and  marriage 
of  Zoraida,  while  the  judge  took  his  voyage  to  the  Indies,  being  obliged  to  make  no  delay,  because 
the  Indian  fleet  was  ready  at  Seville,  to  set  sail  in  a month  for  New  Spain. 

Everything  being  now  settled  to  the  universal  satisfaction  of  the  company,  and  being  very  late, 
they  all  agreed  for  bed,  except  Don  Quixote,  who  would  needs  guard  the  castle  while  they  slept 
lest  some  tyrant  or  giant,  covetous  of  the  great  treasure  of  beauty  which  it  enclosed,  should  make 
some  dangerous  attempt.  He  had  the  thanks  of  the  house  ; and  the  judge,  being  further  informed 
of  his  humour,  was  not  a little  pleased.  Sancho  Panza  was  very  uneasy  and  waspish  for  want  of 
sleep,  though  the  best  provided  with  a bed,  bestowing  himself  on  his  pack-saddle  ; but  he  paid 
dearly  for  it,  as  we  shall  hear  presently. 

The  ladies  having  gone  to  their  chamber,  and  everybody  else  retired  to  rest,  and  Don 
Quixote  planted  sentinel  at  the  castle  gate,  a voice  was  heard  of  a sudden  singing  so  sweetly  that  it 
allured  all  their  attentions,  but  chiefly  Dorothea’s,  with  whom  the  judge’s  daughter,  Donna  Clara 
de  Viedma,  lay.  None  could  imagine  who  could  make  such  pretty  music  without  an  instrument. 
Sometimes  it  sounded  as  from  the  yard,  sometimes  as  from  the  stable.  With  this  Cardenio 
knocked  softly  at  their  door. 

“ Ladies,  ladies  ! ” said  he,  “ are  you  awake  ? Can  you  sleep  when  so  charmingly  serenaded  ? 
Do  not  you  hear  how  sweetly  one  of  the  footmen  sings  ? ” 

“Yes,  sir,”  Sc  id  Dorothea,  “we  hear  him  plainly.”  Then  Dorothea,  hearkening  as  attentively 
as  she  could,  heard  this  song. 


39 


CHAPTER  XXXIX. 


TIIE  PLEASANT  story  of  the  young  muleteer,  with  other  strange  adventures  that 

HAPPENED  IN  THE  INN. 


A SONG. 


I. 

TOSS’D  in  doubts  and  fears  I rove 
On  the  stormy  seas  of  love  ; 

Far  from  comfort,  far  from  port, 
Beauty’s  prize  and  fortune’s  sport  : 

Yet  my  heart  disclaims  despair, 

While  I trace  my  leading  star. 


ii. 

But  reservedness,  like  a cloud. 

Does  too  oft  her  glories  shroud. 
Pierce  to  the  gloom,  reviving  light ! 
Be  auspicious  as  you’re  bright. 

As  you  hide  or  dart  your  beams, 
Your  adorer  sinks  or  swims. 


Dorothea  thought  it  would  not  be  much  amiss  to  give  Donna  Clara  the  opportunity  of  hearing 
so  excellent  a voice,  wherefore,  jogging  her  gently,  first  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the  other,  and  the 
young  lady  waking,  “ I ask  your  pardon,  my  dear,”  cried  Dorothea,  “ for  thus  interrupting  your 
repose  ; and  I hope  you  will  easily  forgive  me,  since  I only  wake  you  that  you  may  have  the 
pleasure  of  hearing  one  of  the  most  charming  voices  that  possibly  you  ever  heard  in  your  life.” 

Donna  Clara,  who  was  hardly  awake,  did  not  perfectly  understand  what  Dorothea  said,  and 
therefore  desired  her  to  repeat  what  she  had  spoken  to  her.  Dorothea  did  so  ; which  then  obliged 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


307 


Donna  Clara  also  to  listen  ; but  scarce  had  she  heard  the  early  musician  sing  two  verses  ere  she 
was  taken  with  a strange  trembling,  as  if  she  had  been  seized  with  a violent  fit  of  a quartan-ague, 
and  then  closely  embracing  Dorothea,  “ Ah ! dear  madam,”  cried  she,  with  a deep  sigh,  “ why  did 
you  wake  me  ? Alas  ! the  greatest  happiness  I could  now  have  expected  had  been  to  have 
stopped  my  ears.  That  unhappy  musician  ! ” 

“ How  is  this,  my  dear  ? ” cried  Dorothea ; “ have  you  not  heard  that  the  young  lad  who  sung 
now  is  but  a muleteer  ? ” 

“ Oh,  no,  he  is  no  such  thing,”  replied  Clara  ; “ but  a young  lord,  heir  to  a great  estate,  and 
has  such  a full  possession  of  my  heart  that,  if  he  does  not  slight  it,  it  must  be  his  for  ever.” 

Dorothea  was  strangely  surprised  at  the  young  lady’s  passionate  expressions,  that  seemed  far 
to  exceed  those  of  persons  of  her  tender  years.  “You  speak  so  mysteriously,  madam,”  replied  she, 
“ that  I cannot  rightly  understand  you,  unless  you  will  please  to  let  me  know  more  plainly  what 
you  would  say  of  hearts  and  sighs,  and  this  young  musician,  whose  voice  has  caused  so  great  an 
alteration  in  you.  However,  speak  no  more  of  them  now  ; for  I am  resolved  I will  not  lose  the 
pleasure  of  hearing  him  sing.  Hold,”  continued  she,  “ I fancy  he  is  going  to  entertain  us  with 
another  sonsc” 

“ With  all  my  heart,”  returned  Clara  ; and  with  that  she  stopped  her  ears  that  she  might  not 
hear  him  ; at  which  again  Dorothea  could  not  choose  but  wonder  ; but,  listening  to  his  voice,  she 
heard  the  following  song  • — 

o o 

HOPE. 

I. 

Unconquer’d  Hope  ! thou  bane  of  fear, 

And  last  deserter  of  the  brave  ; 

Thou  soothing  ease  of  mortal  care, 

Thou  traveller  beyond  the  grave  ; 

Thou  soul  of  patience,  airy  food, 

Bold  warrant  of  a distant  good, 

Reviving  cordial,  kind  decoy  : 

Though  fortune  frowns,  and  friends  depart, 

Though  Sylvia  flies  me,  flatt'ring  joy, 

Nor  thou,  nor  love,  shall  leave  my  doting  heart. 

III. 

No  slave,  to  lazy  ease  resign’d, 

E’er  triumph’d  over  noble  foes  ; 

The  monarch,  Fortune,  most  is  kind 
To  him  who  bravely  dares  oppose. 

They  say,  Love  sets  his  blessings  high ; 

But  who  would  prize  an  easy  joy? 

Then  I’ll  my  scornful  fair  pursue, 

Though  the  coy  beauty  still  denies  ; 

I grovel  now  on  earth,  ’tis  true, 

But  rais’d  by  her,  the  humble  slave  may  rise 

Here  the  voice  ended,  and  Donna  Clara’s  sighs  began,  which  caused  the  greatest  curiosity 
imaginable  in  Dorothea,  to  know  the  occasion  of  so  moving  a song,  and  of  so  sad  a complaint ; 


11. 

The  phoenix,  Hope,  can  wing  her  flight 
Through  the  vast  deserts  of  the  skies, 
And  still  defying  fortune’s  spite, 

Revive,  and  from  her  ashes  rise. 

Then  soar,  and  promise,  though  in  vain. 
What  reason’s  self  despairs  to  gain. 

Thou  only,  oh,  presuming  trust, 

Canst  feed  us  still,  yet  never  cloy  : 

And  even  a virtue  when  unjust, 

Postpone  our  pain,  and  antedate  our  joy. 


3°8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


wherefore  she  again  entreated  her  to  pursue  the  discourse  she  had  begun  before.  Then  Clara, 
fearing  Lucinda  would  over-hear  her,  getting  as  near  Dorothea  as  was  possible,  laid  her  mouth 
so  close  to  Dorothea’s  ear,  that  she  was  out  of  danger  of  being  understood  by  any  other,  and 
began  in  this  manner  : — “ He  who  sung  is  a gentleman’s  son  of  Arragon ; his  father  is  a great 
lord,  and  dwelt  just  over  against  my  father’s  at  Madrid  ; and  though  he  had  always  canvass 
windows  in  winter  and  lattices  in  summer,  yet,  I cannot  tell  by  what  accident,  this  young 
gentleman,  who  then  went  to  school,  had  a sight  of  me,  and  whether  it  were  at  church,  or  at 
some  other  place,  I cannot  justly  tell  you  ; but,  in  short,  he  fell  in  love  with  me,  and  made  me 
sensible  of  his  passion  from  his  own  windows,  which  were  opposite  to  mine,  with  so  many  signs, 
and  such  showers  of  tears,  that  at  once  forced  me  both  to  believe  and  to  love  him,  without 
knowing  for  what  reason  I did  so.  Amongst  the  usual  signs  that  he  made  me,  one  was  that 
of  joining  his  hands  together,  intimating  by  that  his  desire  to  marry  me  ; which,  though  I heartily 
wished  it,  I could  not  communicate  to  any  one,  being  motherless,  and  having  none  near  me  whom 
I might  trust  with  the  management  of  such  an  affair ; and  was  therefore  constrained  to  bear  it 
in  silence,  without  permitting  him  any  other  favour,  more  than  to  let  him  gaze  on  me,  by  lifting 
up  the  lattice  or  oiled  cloth  a little,  when  my  father  and  his  were  abroad  ; at  which  he  would 
be  so  transported  with  joy,  that  you  would  certainly  have  thought  he  had  been  distracted.  At 
last  my  father’s  business  called  him  away  ; yet  not  so  soon,  but  that  the  young  gentleman  had 
notice  of  it  some  time  before  his  departure  ; whence  he  had  it  I know  not,  for  it  was  impossible 
for  me  to  acquaint  him  with  it.  This  so  sensibly  afflicted  him,  as  far  as  I understand,  that  he 
fell  sick  ; so  that  I could  not  get  a sight  of  him  all  the  day  of  our  departure,  so  much  as  to 
look  a farewell  on  him.  But  after  two  days’  travel,  just  as  we  came  into  an  inn,  in  a village  a 
day’s  journey  hence,  I saw  him  at  the  inn-door,  dressed  so  exactly  like  a muleteer,  that  it  had 
been  utterly  impossible  for  me  to  have  known  him,  had  not  his  perfect  image  been  stamped  in 
my  soul.  Yes,  yes,  dear  madam,  I knew  him,  and  was  amazed  and  overjoyed  at  the  sight  of 
him ; and  he  saw  me  unknown  to  my  father,  whose  sight  he  carefully  avoids,  when  we  cross 
our  ways  in  our  journey,  and  when  we  come  to  any  inn  : and  now,  since  I know  who  he  is,  and 
what  pain  and  fatigue  it  must  necessarily  be  to  him  to  travel  thus  afoot,  I am  ready  to  die 
myself  with  the  thought  of  what  he  suffers  on  my  account ; and  wherever  he  sets  his  feet,  there 
I set  my  eyes.  I cannot  imagine  what  he  proposes  to  himself  in  this  attempt  ; nor  by  what  means 
he  could  thus  make  his  escape  from  his  father,  who  loves  him  beyond  expression,  both  because 
he  has  no  other  son  and  heir,  and  because  the  young  gentleman’s  merits  oblige  him  to  it ; which 
you  must  needs  confess  when  you  see  him  : and  I dare  affirm,  beside,  that  all  he  has  sung  was 
his  own  immediate  composition  ; for,  as  I have  heard,  he  is  an  excellent  scholar,  and  a great  poet. 
And  now  whenever  I see  him,  or  hear  him  sing,  I start  and  tremble,  as  at  the  sight  of  a ghost, 
lest  my  father  should  know  him,  and  so  be  informed  of  our  mutual  affection.  I never  spoke  one 
word  to  him  in  my  life  ; yet  I love  him  so  dearly,  that  it  is  impossible  I should  live  without  him. 
This,  dear  madam,  is  all  the  account  I can  give  you  of  this  musician,  with  whose  voice  you  have 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


309 


been  so  well  entertained,  and  which  alone  might  convince  you  that  he  is  no  muleteer,  as  you  were 
pleased  to  say,  but  one  who  is  master  of  a great  estate,  and  of  my  poor  heart,  as  I have  already 
told  you.’’ 

“ Enough,  dear  madam,”  replied  Dorothea,  kissing  her  a thousand  times  : “ it  is  very  well ; 
compose  yourself  till  day-light,  and  then  I trust  in  heaven  I shall  so  manage  your  affairs,  that 
the  end  of  them  shall  be  as  fortunate  as  the  beginning  is  innocent.” 

“ Alas ! madam,”  returned  Clara,  “ what  end  can  I propose  to  myself,  since  his  father  is  so 
rich,  and  of  so  noble  a family,  that  he  will  hardly  think  me  worthy  to  be  his  son’s  servant,  much  less 
his  wife  ? And  then  again,  I would  not  marry  without  my  father’s  consent,  for  the  universe.  All  I 
can  desire  is,  that  the  young  gentleman  would  return  home,  and  leave  his  pursuit  of  me  : happily, 
by  a long  absence,  and  the  great  distance  of  place,  the  pain,  which  now  so  much  afflicts  me,  may  be 
somewhat  mitigated  ; though  I fear  what  I now  propose  as  a remedy  would  rather  increase  my 
distemper  : yet  I cannot  imagine  whence,  or  by  what  means,  this  passion  for  him  seized  me, 
since  we  are  both  so  young,  being  much  about  the  same  age,  I believe  ; and  my  father  says  I shall 
not  be  sixteen  till  next  Michaelmas.” 

Dorothea  could  not  forbear  laughing  to  hear  the  young  lady  talk  so  innocently.  “ My 
dear,”  said  Dorothea,  “ let  us  repose  ourselves  the  little  remaining  part  of  the  night,  and 
when  day  appears  we  will  put  a happy  period  to  your  sorrows,  or  my  judgment  fails  me.”  Then 
they  addressed  themselves  again  to  sleep,  and  there  was  a deep  silence  throughout  all  the  inn  ; only 
the  innkeeper’s  daughter  and  Maritornes  were  awake,  who,  knowing  Don  Quixote’s  blind  side  very 
well,  and  that  he  sat  armed  on  horseback,  keeping  guard  without  doors,  a fancy  took  them,  and 
they  agreed  to  have  a little  pastime  with  him,  and  hear  some  of  his  fine  out-of-the-way  speeches. 

You  must  know,  then,  that  there  was  but  one  window  in  all  the  inn  that  looked  out  into  the 
field,  and  that  was  only  a hole  out  of  which  they  used  to  throw  their  straw  : to  this  same  hole,  then, 
came  these  two  ladies,  whence  they  saw  Don  Quixote  mounted  and  leaning  on  his  lance,  and 
fetching  such  mournful  and  deep  sighs,  that  his  very  soul  seemed  to  be  torn  from  him  at  each  of 
them  : they  observed  besides,  that  he  said,  in  a soft,  amorous  tone — 

“ Oh,  my  divine  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  ! the  heaven  of  all  perfections  ! the  end  and  quintessence 
of  discretion  ! the  treasury  of  sweet  aspect  and  behaviour  ! the  magazine  of  virtue  ! and,  in  a word, 
the  idea  of  all  that  is  profitable,  modest,  or  delightful  in  the  universe  ! What  noble  thing  employs 
thy  excellency  at  this  present  ? May  I presume  to  hope  that  thy  soul  is  entertained  with  the 
thoughts  of  thy  captive-knight,  who  voluntarily  exposes  himself  to  so  many  dangers  for  thy  sake  ? 
Oh,  thou  triformed  luminary,  give  me  some  account  of  her  ! perhaps  thou  art  now  gazing  with  envy 
on  her,  as  she  is  walking  either  through  some  stately  gallery  of  her  sumptuous  palaces,  or  leaning 
on  her  happy  window,  there  meditating  how,  with  safety  of  her  honour  and  grandeur,  she  may 
sweeten  and  alleviate  the  torture  which  my  poor  afflicted  heart  suffers  for  love  of  her ; with  what 
glories  she  shall  crown  my  pains,  what  rest  she  shall  give  to  my  cares,  what  life  to  my  death,  and 
what  reward  to  my  services.  And  thou,  more  glorious  planet,  which  by  this  time,  I presume,  art 


3i° 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


harnessing  thy  horses  to  pay  thy  earliest  visit  to  my  adorable  Dulcinea,  I entreat  thee,  as  soon 
as  thou  dost  see  her,  to  salute  her  with  my  most  profound  respects  : but  take  heed,  when 
thou  lookest  on  her,  and  addressest  thyself  to  her,  that  thou  dost  not  kiss  her  face  ; for  if  thou 
dost,  I shall  grow  more  jealous  of  thee  than  ever  thou  wert  of  the  swift  ingrate  who  made  thee 
run  and  sweat  so  over  the  plains  of  Thessaly,  or  the  banks  of  Peneus  ; I have  forgotten  through 
which  of  them  thou  rannest,  so  raging  with  love  and  jealousy.” 

At  these  words  the  innkeeper’s  daughter  began  to  call  to  him  softly  : “ Sir  Knight,”  said 
she,  “ come  a little  nearer  this  way,  if  you  please.” 

At  these  words  Don  Quixote  turned  his  head,  and  the  moon  shining  then  very  bright,  he 
perceived  somebody  called  him  from  the  hole,  which  he  fancied  was  a large  window  full  of  iron 
bars,  all  richly  gilt,  suitable  to  the  stately  castle,  for  which  he  mistook  the  inn  ; and  all  on  a 
sudden,  he  imagined  that  the  beautiful  damsel,  daughter  to  the  lady  of  the  castle,  overcome  by 
the  charms  of  his  person,  returned  to  court  him,  as  she  did  once  before.  In  this  thought,  that 
he  might  not  appear  uncivil  or  ungrateful,  he  turned  Rozinante  and  came  to  the  hole  ; where  seeing 
the  two  lasses,  “ Fair  damsels,”  said  he,  “ I cannot  but  pity  you  for  your  misplaced  affection,  since 
it  is  altogether  impossible  you  should  meet  with  any  return  from  the  object  of  your  wishes 
proportionable  to  your  great  merits  and  beauty  ; but  yet  you  ought  not  by  any  means  to  condemn 
this  unhappy  knight-errant  for  his  coldness,  since  love  has  utterly  incapacitated  him  to  become  a 
slave  to  any  other  but  to  her  who,  at  first  sight,  made  herself  absolute  mistress  of  his  soul.  Pardon 
me  therefore,  excellent  lady,  and  retire  to  your  apartment.  Let  not,  I beseech  you,  any  farther 
arguments  of  love  force  me  to  be  less  grateful  or  civil  than  I would  : but  if,  in  the  passion  you  have 
for  me,  you  can  bethink  yourself  of  anything  else  wherein  I may  do  you  any  service,  love  alone 
excepted,  command  it  freely  ; and  I swear  to  you  by  my  absent,  yet  most  charming  enemy,  to 
sacrifice  it  to  you  immediately,  though  it  be  a lock  of  Medusa’s  hair,  which  are  all  snakes,  or  the 
very  sunbeams  enclosed  in  a glass  phial.” 

“ My  lady  needs  none  of  those  things,  Sir  Knight,’  replied  Maritornes. 

“ What  then  would  she  command  ?”  asked  Don  Quixote. 

“ Only  the  honour  of  one  of  your  fair  hands,”  returned  Maritornes,  “ to  satisfy,  in  some 
measure,  that  violent  passion  which  has  obliged  her  to  come  hither  with  the  great  hazard  of  her 
honour  : for  if  my  lord,  her  father,  should  know  it,  the  cutting  off  one  of  her  beautiful  ears  were  the 
least  thing  he  would  do  to  her.” 

“ Oh  ! that  he  durst  attempt  it ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  I know  he  dare  not,  unless  he  has 
a mind  to  die  the  most  unhappy  death  that  ever  father  suffered,  for  sacrilegiously  depriving  his 
lovelv  daughter  of  one  of  her  delicate  members.”  Maritornes  made  no  doubt  that  he  would 
comply  with  her  desire,  and  having  already  laid  her  design,  got  in  a trice  to  the  stable,  and  brought 
Sancho  Panza’s  ass’s  halter  to  the  hole,  just  as  Don  Quixote  was  got  on  his  feet  upon  Rozinante’s 
saddle,  more  easily  to  reach  the  barricadoed  window,  where  he  imagined  the  enamoured  lady  stayed ; 
and  lifting  up  his  hand  to  her,  said,  “ Here,  madam,  take  the  hand,  or  rather,  as  I may  say,  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


3 1 r 

executioner  of  all  earthly  miscreants  ; take,  I say,  that  hand,  which  never  woman  touched  before  ; 
no,  not  even  she  herself  who  has  entire  possession  of  my  whole  body  ; nor  do  I hold  it  up  to  you 
that  you  may  kiss  it,  but  that  you  may  observe  the  contexture  of  the  sinews,  the  ligament  of 
the  muscles,  and  the  largeness  and  dilatation  of  the  veins  ; whence  you  may  conclude  how  strong 
that  arm  must  be,  to  which  such  a hand  is  joined.” 

“ We  shall  see  that  presently,”  replied  Maritornes,  and  cast  the  noose  she  had  made  in  the 
halter  on  his  wrist ; and  then  descending  from  the  hole,  she  tied  the  other  end  of  the  halter  very  fast 
to  the  lock  of  the  door.  Don  Quixote  being  sensible  that  the  bracelet  she  had  bestowed  on  him  was 
very  rough,  cried,  “ You  seem  rather  to  abuse  than  compliment  my  hand  ; but  I beseech  you  treat 
it  not  so  unkindly,  since  that  is  not  the  cause  why  I do  not  entertain  a passion  for  you  ; nor  is  it 
just  or  equal  you  should  discharge  the  whole  tempest  of  your  vengeance  on  so  small  a part- 
Consider,  those  who  love  truly  can  never  be  so  cruel  in  their  revenge.”  But  not  a soul  regarded' 
what  he  said ; for  as  soon  as  Maritornes  had  fastened  him,  she  and  her  confederate,  almost  dead 
with  laughing,  ran  away,  and  left  him  so  strongly  fastened,  that  it  was  impossible  he  should 
disengage  himself. 

He  stood  then,  as  I said,  on  Rozinante’s  saddle,  with  all  his  arm  drawn  into  the  hole,  and  the 
rope  fastened  to  the  lock,  being  under  a fearful  apprehension  that  if  Rozinante  moved  but  never  so 
little  on  any  side,  he  should  slip  and  hang  by  the  arm,  and  therefore  durst  not  use  the  least  motion 
in  the  world,  though  he  might  reasonably  have  expected  from  Rozinante’s  patience  and  gentle 
temper,  that  if  he  were  not  urged,  he  would  never  have  moved  for  a whole  age  together  of  his  own 
accord.  In  short,  the  knight,  perceiving  himself  fast,  and  that  the  ladies  had  forsaken  him, 
immediately  concluded  that  all  this  was  done  by  way  of  enchantment,  as  in  the  last  adventure  in 
the  very  same  castle,  when  the  enchanted  Moor  (the  carrier)  did  so  fearfully  maul  him.  Then  he 
began  to  curse  within  himself  his  want  of  discretion  and  conduct,  since  having  once  made  his  escape 
out  of  that  castle  in  so  miserable  a condition,  he  should  venture  into  it  a second  time  ; for,  by 
the  way,  it  was  an  observation  among  all  knights-errant,  that  if  they  were  once  foiled  in  an 
adventure,  it  was  a certain  sign  it  was  not  reserved  for  them,  but  for  some  other  to  finish  ; 
wherefore  they  would  never  prove  it  again.  Yet,  for  all  this,  he  ventured  to  draw  back  his 
arm,  to  try  if  he  could  free  himself ; but  he  was  so  fast  bound,  that  his  attempt  proved  fruitless. 
It  is  true,  it  was  with  care  and  deliberation  he  drew  it,  for  fear  Rozinante  should  stir  : and 
then  fain  would  he  have  seated  himself  on  the  saddle  ; but  he  found  he  must  either  stand,  or 
leave  his  arm  for  a ransom.  A hundred  times  he  wished  for  Amadis’  sword,  on  which  no 
enchantment  had  power ; then  he  fell  a-cursing  his  stars  ; then  reflected  on  the  great  loss  the 
world  would  sustain  all  the  time  he  should  continue  under  his  enchantment,  as  he  really  believed 
it ; then  his  adorable  Dulcinea  came  afresh  into  his  thoughts  ; many  a time  did  he  call  to  his 
trusty  squire  Sancho  Panza,  who,  buried  in  a profound  sleep,  lay  stretched  at  length  on  his  ass’s 
pannel ; then  the  aid  of  the  necromancers  Lirgandeo  and  Alquife  was  invoked  by  the  unhappy 
knight.  And,  in  fine,  the  morning  surprised  him,  racked  with  despair  and  confusion,  bellowing 


312 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


like  a bull  ; for  he  could  not  hope  from  daylight  any  cure,  or  mitigation  ol  his  pain,  which  he 
believed  would  be  eternal,  being  absolutely  persuaded  he  was  enchanted,  since  he  perceived 
that  Rozinante  moved  no  more  than  a mountain  ; and  therefore  he  was  of  opinion,  that  neither 
he  nor  his  horse  would  be  able  to  eat,  drink,  or  sleep,  but  remain  in  that  state  till  the  malignancy  of 
the  stars  were  o'er-past,  or  till  some  more  powerful  magician  should  break  the  charm. 

But  it  was  an  erroneous  opinion;  for  it  was  scarce  daybreak,  when  four  horsemen,  very 
well  accoutred,  their  firelocks  hanging  at  the  pommels  of  their  saddles,  came  thither,  and  finding 
the  inn-oate  shut,  called  and  knocked  very  loud  and  hard  ; which  Don  Quixote  perceiving  from 
the  posf  where  he  stood  sentinel,  cried  out  with  a rough  voice  and  a haughty  mien,  “ Knights,  or 
squires,  or  of  whatsoever  other  degree  you  are,  knock  no  more  at  the  gates  of  this  castle,  since  you 
may  assure  yourselves  that  those  who  are  within  at  such  an  hour  as  this  are  either  taking  their 
repose  or  not  accustomed  to  open  their  fortress  till  Phcebus  has  displayed  himself  upon  the  globe  : 
retire,  therefore,  and  wait  till  it  is  clear  day,  and  then  we  will  see  whether  it  is  just  or  no  that  they 

should  open  their  gates  to  you.” 

..  What  do  you  mean  ?"  cried  one  of  them ; “ what  castle  or  fortress  is  this,  that  we  should  be 
obliged  to  observe  so  long  a ceremony  ? Prythee,  friend,  if  thou  art  the  innkeeper,  bid  them  open 
the  door  to  us ; for  we  ride  post,  and  can  stay  no  longer  than  just  to  bait  our  horses.” 

■'  Gentlemen,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ do  I look  like  an  innkeeper,  then  ? 

“ I cannot  tell  what  thou  art  like,”  replied  another,  “ but  I am  sure  thou  talkest  like  a 
madman,  to  call  this  a castle. 

-It  is  a castle,”  returned  Don  Quixote,  “ay,  and  one  of  the  best  in  the  province,  and 
contains  one  who  has  held  a sceptre  in  her  hand,  and  wore  a crown  on  her  head. 

“ It  might  more  properly  have  been  said  exactly  contrary,”  replied  the  traveller;  “ a sceptre 
in  her  tail,  and  a crown  in  her  hand  : yet  it  is  not  unlikely  that  there  may  be  a company  of 

strollers  within,  and  those  do  frequently  hold  such  sceptres  and  wear  such  crowns  as  thou 

protest  of:  for  certainly  no  person  worthy  to  sway  a sceptre  or  wear  a crown  would  condescend 

to  take  up  a lodging  in  such  a paltry  inn  as  this,  where  I hear  so  little  noise. 

“ Thou  hast  not  been  much  conversant  in  the  world,’  said  Don  Quixote,  since  thou  art 


so  miserably  ignorant  of  accidents  so  frequently  met  with  in  knight-errantry. 

The  companions  of  him  that  held  this  tedious  discourse  with  Don  Quixote  were  tired 
With  their  foolish  chattering  so  long  together,  and  therefore  they  returned  with  greater  fury  to  the 
gate,  where  they  knocked  so  violently,  that  they  woke  both  the  innkeeper  and  his  guests  ; and  so 

the  host  rose  to  ask  who  was  at  the  door. 

In  the  meantime  Rozinante,  pensive  and  sad,  with  ears  hanging  down  and  motionless,  bore  up 
his  outstretched  lord,  when  one  of  the  horses  those  four  men  rode  upon  walked  towards  Rozinante, 
to  smell  him  ; and  he,  truly  being  real  flesh  and  blood,  though  very  like  a wooden  block,  could  not 
choose  but  be  sensible  of  it,  nor  forbear  turning  to  smell  the  other,  which  so  seasonably  came  to 
comfort  and  divert  him  ; but  he  had  hardly  stirred  an  inch  from  his  place,  when  Don  Quixotes  feet, 


He  had  inevitably  fallen  to  the  ground,  had  not  his  wrist  been  securely  fastened  to  the  rope.” — p.  314. 


3*4 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


which  were  close  together,  slipped  asunder,  and,  tumbling  from  the  saddle,  he  had  inevitably  fallen 
to  the  ground,  had  not  his  wrist  been  securely  fastened  to  the  rope ; which  put  him  to  so  great  a 
torture,  that  he  could  not  imagine  but  that  his  hand  was  cutting  off,  or  his  arm  tearing  from  his 
body  ; yet  he  hung  so  near  the  ground,  that  he  could  just  reach  it  with  the  tips  of  his  toes,  which 
added  to  his  torment ; for,  perceiving  how  little  he  wanted  to  the  setting  his  feet  wholly  on  the 
ground,  he  strove  and  tugged  as  much  as  he  could  to  effect  it — not  much  unlike  those  that  suffer 
the  strapade,  who  put  themselves  to  greater  pain  in  striving  to  stretch  their  limbs,  deluded  by  the 
hopes  of  touching  the  ground,  if  they  could  but  inch  themselves  out  a little  longer. 


A CONTINUATION  OF  THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURES  IN  THE  INN. 

THE  miserable  outcries  of  Don  Quixote  presently  drew  the  innkeeper  to  the  door,  which  he 
hastily  opening-,  was  strangely  affrighted  to  hear  such  a terrible  roaring,  and  the  strangers 
stood  no  less  surprised.  Maritornes,  whom  the  cries  had  also  roused,  guessing  the  cause,  ran 
straight  to  the  loft,  and,  slipping  the  halter,  released  the  Don,  who  made  her  a very  prostrate 
acknowledgment  by  an  unmerciful  fall  on  the  ground.  The  innkeeper  and  strangers  crowded 
immediately  round  him  to  know  the  cause  of  his  misfortune.  He,  without  regard  to  their 
questions,  unmanacles  his  wrist,  bounces  from  the  ground,  mounts  Rozinante,  braces  his  target, 
couches  his  lance,  and,  taking  a large  circumference  in  the  field,  came  up  with  a hand-gallop  : 
“ Whoever,”  said  he,  “ dare  affirm,  assert,  or  declare  that  I have  been  justly  enchanted,  in  case 
my  lady  the  Princess  Micomicona  will  but  give  me  leave,  I will  tell  him  he  lies,  and  will  maintain 
my  assertion  by  immediate  combat.”  The  travellers  stood  amazed  at  Don  Quixote’s  words,  till  the 
host  removed  their  wonder,  by  informing  them  of  his  usual  extravagances  in  this  kind,  and  that 
his  behaviour  was  not  to  be  minded.  They  then  asked  the  innkeeper  if  a certain  youth,  near  the 
age  of  fifteen,  had  set  up  at  his  house,  clad  like  a muleteer;  adding  withal  some  farther  marks  and 
tokens,  denoting  Donna  Clara’s  lover. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


3 1 6 

He  told  them  that  among  the  number  of  his  guests  such  a person  might  pass  him 
undistinguished  ; but  one  of  them  accidentally  spying  the  coach  which  the  judge  rode  in,  called  to 
his  companions,  “ Oh,  gentlemen,  gentlemen,  here  stands  the  coach  which  we  were  told  my  young 
master  followed,  and  here  he  must  be,  that  is  certain.  Let  us  lose  no  time  : one  guard  the  door,  the 
rest  enter  into  the  house  to  look  for  him.  Hold — stay,”  continued  he ; “ride  one  about  to  the 
other  side  of  the  house,  lest  he  escape  us  through  the  back  yard.” 

“ Agreed,”  says  another,  and  they  posted  themselves  accordingly.  The  innkeeper,  though  he 
might  guess  that  they  sought  the  young  gentleman  whom  they  had  described,  was  nevertheless 
puzzled  as  to  the  cause  of  their  so  diligent  search.  By  this  time  the  daylight  and  the  outcries 
of  Don  Quixote  had  raised  the  whole  house,  particularly  the  two  ladies  Clara  and  Dorothea, 
who  had  slept  but  little,  the  one  with  the  thoughts  her  lover  was  so  near  her,  and  the  other  through 
an  earnest  desire  she  had  to  see  him.  Don  Quixote,  seeing  the  travellers  neither  regard  him  nor 
his  challenge,  was  ready  to  burst  with  fury  and  indignation  ; and  could  he  have  dispensed  with 
the  rules  of  chivalry,  which  oblige  a knight-errant  to  the  finishing  one  adventure  before  his 
embarking  in  another,  he  had  assaulted  them  all,  and  forced  them  to  answer  him  to  their  cost; 
but  being  unfortunately  engaged  to  reinstate  the  Princess  Micomicona,  his  hands  were  tied  up,  and 
he  was  compelled  to  desist,  and  to  wait  to  see  where  the  search  and  diligence  of  the  four  travellers 
would  terminate.  One  of  them  found  the  young  gentleman  fast  asleep  beside  a muleteer,  little 
dreaming  of  being  followed  or  discovered.  The  fellow,  lugging  him  by  the  arm,  cries  out,  “ Ay,  ay, 
Don  Lewis,  these  are  very  fine  clothes  you  have  got  on,  and  very  becoming  a gentleman  of  your 
quality  ; indeed,  this  scurvy  bed,  too,  is  very  suitable  to  the  care  and  tenderness  your  mother  brought 
you  up  with.”  The  youth,  having  rubbed  his  drowsy  eyes,  and  fixed  them  steadfastly  on  the  man, 
knew  him  presently  for  one  of  his  father’s  servants,  which  struck  him  speechless  with  surprise.  The 
fellow  went  on  : “ There  is  but  one  way,  sir  ; pluck  up  your  spirits,  and  return  with  us  to  your 
father,  who  is  certainly  a dead  man  unless  you  be  recovered.” 

“ How  came  my  father  to  know,”  answered  Don  Lewis,  “ that  I took  this  way  and  this 
disguise  ?” 

“ One  of  your  fellow-students,”  replied  the  servant,  “ whom  you  communicated  your  design  to, 
moved  by  your  father’s  lamentation  at  your  loss,  discovered  it.  The  good  old  gentleman  dispatched 
away  four  of  his  men  in  search  of  you  ; and  here  we  are  all  at  your  service,  sir,  and  the  joyfullest 
men  alive  ; for  our  old  master  will  give  us  a hearty  welcome,  having  so  soon  restored  him  what  he 
loved  so  much.” 

“ That,  next  to  Heaven,  is  as  I please,”  said  Don  Lewis. 

“ What  would  you,  or  Heaven  either,  please,  sir,  but  return  to  your  father  ? Come,  come,  sir, 
talk  no  more  of  it ; home  you  must  go,  and  home  you  shall  go.”  The  muleteer  that  lay  with  Don 
Lewis,  hearing  this  dispute,  rose,  and  related  the  business  to  Don  Ferdinand,  Cardenio,  and  the 
rest,  who  were  now  dressed  ; adding  withal  how  the  man  gave  him  the  title  of  Don,  with  other 
circumstances  of  their  conference.  They,  being  already  charmed  with  the  sweetness  of  his  voice, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  3 1 7 

were  curious  to  be  informed  more  particularly  of  his  circumstances,  and  resolving  to  assist  him,  in 
case  any  violence  should  be  offered  him,  went  presently  to  the  place  where  he  was  still  contending 
with  his  father’s  servant. 

By  this  Dorothea  had  left  her  chamber,  and  with  her  Donna  Clara  in  great  disorder. 
Dorothea,  beckoning  Cardenio  aside,  gave  him  a short  account  of  the  musician  and  Donna  Clara  ; 
and  he  told  her  that  his  father’s  servants  were  come  for  him.  Donna  Clara  overhearing  him, 
was  so  exceedingly  surprised,  that  had  not  Dorothea  run  and  supported  her,  she  had  sunk  to 
the  ground.  Cardenio,  promising  to  bring  the  matter  to  a fair  and  successful  end,  advised  Dorothea 
to  retire  with  the  indisposed  lady  to  her  chamber.  All  the  four  that  pursued  Don  Lewis  were 
now  come  about  him,  pressing  his  return  without  delay,  to  comfort  his  poor  father.  He  answered 
it  was  impossible,  being  engaged  to  put  a business  in  execution  first,  on  which  depended  no  less 
than  his  honour,  and  his  present  and  future  happiness.  They  urged  that  since  they  had  found 
him,  there  was  no  returning  for  them  without  him,  and  if  he  would  not  go  he  should  be  carried. 
“Not  unless  you  kill  me,”  answered  the  young  gentleman;  upon  which  all  the  company  were 
joined  in  the  dispute — Cardenio,  Don  Ferdinand  and  his  companions,  the  judge,  the  curate,  the 
barber,  and  Don  Quixote,  who  thought  it  needless  now  to  guard  the  castle  any  longer.  Cardenio, 
who  knew  the  young  gentleman’s  story,  asked  the  fellows  upon  what  pretence,  or  by  what 
authority,  they  could  carry  the  youth  away  against  his  will. 

“ Sir,”  answered  one  of  them,  “ we  have  reason  good  for  what  we  do  ; no  less  than  his  father’s, 
life  depends  upon  his  return.” 

“ Gentlemen,”  said  Don  Lewis,  “ it  is  not  proper,  perhaps,  to  trouble  you  with  a particular 
relation  of  my  affairs  ; only  thus1  much,  I am  a gentleman,  and  have  no  dependence  that  should 
force  me  to  anything  beside  my  inclination.” 

“ Nay,  but,  sir,”  answered  the  servant,  “reason,  I hope,  will  force  you;  and  though  it  cannot 
move  you,  it  must  govern  us,  who  must  execute  our  orders,  and  force  you  back.  We  only  act  as  we 
are  ordered,  sir.” 

“ Hold,”  said  the  judge,  “ and  let  us  know  the  whole  state  of  the  case.” 

“ Oh,  sir,”  answered  one  of  the  servants,  that  knew  him,  “ my  lord  judge,  does  not  your 
worship  know  your  next  neighbour’s  child  ? See  here,  sir  ; he  has  run  away  from  his  father’s  house, 
and  has  put  on  these  dirty,  tattered  rags,  to  the  scandal  of  his  family,  as  your  worship  may  see.” 
The  judge  then,  viewing  him  more  attentively,  knew  him,  and  saluting  him,  “ What  jest  is  this, 
Don  Lewis  ? ” cried  he  ; “ what  mighty  intrigue  are  you  carrying  on,  young  sir,  to  occasion  this 
metamorphosis,  so  unbecoming  your  quality  ? ” The  young  gentleman  could  not  answer  a word, 
and  the  tears  stood  in  his  eyes.  The  judge,  perceiving  his  disorder,  desired  the  four  servants  to 
trouble  themselves  no  farther,  but  leave  the  youth  to  his  management,  engaging  his  word  to  act  to 
their  satisfaction  ; and  retiring  with  Don  Lewis,  he  begged  to  know  the  occasion  of  his  flight. 

During  their  conference,  they  heard  a great  noise  at  the  inn  door,  occasioned  by  two  strangers, 
who,  having  lodged  there  over-night,  and  seeing  the  whole  family  so  busied  in  a curious  inquiry 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


3lS 

into  the  four  horsemen’s  business,  thought  to  have  made  off  without  paying  their  reckoning  ; but 

the  innkeeper,  who  minded  no  man’s  business  more  than  his  own,  stopped  them  in  the  nick,  and, 

demanding  his  money,  upbraided  their  ungenteel  design  very  sharply  : they  returned  the  compli- 
ment with  kick  and  cuff  so  roundly,  that  the  poor  host  cried  out  for  help.  His  wife  and  daughter 
saw  none  so  idle  as  Don  Quixote,  whom  the  daughter  addressing,  “ I conjure  you,  Sir  Knight,”  said 
she,  “ by  that  virtue  delivered  to  you  from  Heaven,  to  succour  my  distressed  father,  whom  two 
villains  are  beating  to  jelly.” 

“ Beautiful  damsel ! ” answered  Don  Quixote,  with  a slow  tone  and  profound  gravity,  “ your 
petition  cannot  at  the  present  juncture  prevail,  I being  withheld  from  undertaking  any  new  adventure 
by  promise  first  to  finish  what  I am  engaged  in  ; and  all  the  service  you  can  expect  is  only  my 

counsel  in  this  important  affair.  Go  with  all  speed  to  your  father,  with  advice  to  continue  and 

maintain  the  battle  with  his  utmost  resolution,  till  I obtain  permission  from  the  Princess  Micomicona 
to  reinforce  him,  which,  once  granted,  you  need  make  no  doubt  of  his  safety.” 

“ Unfortunate  wretch  that  I am  ! ” said  Maritornes,  who  overheard  him  ; “ before  you  can  have 
this  leave,  my  master  will  be  sent  to  the  other  world.” 

“ Then,  madam,”  said  he,  “ procure  me  the  permission  I mentioned,  and  though  he  were 
sent  into  the  other  world,  I will  bring  him  back  in  spite  of  all  that  they  may  do,  or  at  least  so 
revenge  his  fall  on  his  enemies,  as  shall  give  ample  satisfaction  to  his  surviving  friends.” 
Whereupon,  breaking  off  the  discourse,  he  went  and  threw  himself  prostrate  before  Dorothea, 
imploring  her,  in  romantic  style,  to  grant  him  a commission  to  march  and  sustain  the  governor  of 
that  castle,  who  was  just  fainting  in  a dangerous  engagement.  The  princess  dispatched  him 
very  willingly  : whereupon  presently  buckling  on  his  target,  and  taking  up  his  sword,  he  ran  to 
the  inn  door,  where  the  two  guests  were  still  handling  their  landlord  very  unmercifully.  He  there 
made  a sudden  stop,  though  Maritornes  and  the  hostess  pressed  him  twice  or  thrice  to  tell  the 
cause  of  his  delay  in  his  promised  assistance  to  his  host. 

“ I make  a pause,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ because  I am  commanded  by  the  law  of  arms  to 
use  my  sword  against  none  under  the  order  of  knighthood.  But  let  my  squire  be  called  ; this 
affair  is  altogether  his  province.” 

In  the  meantime  drubs  and  bruises  were  incessant  at  the  inn  gate,  and  the  poor  host  soundly 
beaten.  His  wife,  daughter,  and  maid,  who  stood  by,  were  like  to  run  mad  at  Don  Quixote’s 
hanging  back,  and  the  innkeeper’s  unequal  combat  ; where  we  shall  leave  him,  with  a design  to 
return  to  his  assistance  presently,  though  his  fool -hardiness  deserves  a sound  beating,  for 
attempting  a thing  he  was  not  likely  to  go  through  with.  We  now  return  to  hear  what  Don 
Lewis  answered  the  judge,  whom  we  left  retired  with  him,  and  asking  the  reason  of  his  travelling 
on  foot,  and  in  so  mean  a disguise.  The  young  gentleman,  grasping  his  hands  very  passionately, 
made  this  reply,  not  without  giving  a proof  of  the  greatness  of  his  sorrow  by  his  tears  : — 

“Without  ceremony  or  preamble  I must  tell  you,  dear  sir,  that  from  the  instant  that  Heaven 
made  us  neighbours,  and  I saw  Donna  Clara,  your  daughter  and  my  mistress,  I resigned  to  her 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


319 


tne  whole  command  of  my  affections  ; and  unless  you,  whom  I most  truly  call  my  father,  prevent 
it,  she  shall  be  my  wife  this  very  day.  For  her  sake  I abandoned  my  father’s  house  ; for  her 
have  I thus  disguised  my  quality  ; her  would  I thus  have  followed  through  the  world  : she  was 
the  north  star  to  guide  my  wandering  course,  and  the  mark  at  which  my  wishes  flew.  Her  ears 
indeed  are  utter  strangers  to  my  passion ; but  yet  her  eyes  may  guess,  by  the  tears  she 
saw  flowing  from  mine.  You  know  my  fortune  and  my  quality  : if  these  can  plead,  sir,  I lay 
them  at  her  feet.  Then  make  me  this  instant  your  happy  son  ; and  if  my  father,  biassed  by 
contrary  designs,  should  not  approve  my  choice,  yet  time  may  produce  some  favourable  turn,  and 
alter  his  mind.” 

The  amorous  youth  having  done  speaking,  the  judge  was  much  surprised  at  the  handsome 
discovery  he  made  of  his  affections,  but  was  not  a little  puzzled  how  to  behave  himself  in  so 
sudden  and  unexpected  a matter.  He  therefore,  without  any  positive  answer,  advised  him  only 
to  compose  his  thoughts,  to  divert  himself  with  his  servants,  and  to  prevail  with  them  to  allow 
him  that  day  to  consider  on  what  was  proper  to  be  done.  Don  Lewis  expressed  his  gratitude 
by  forcibly  kissing  the  judge’s  hands,  and  bathing  them  with  his  tears,  enough  to  move  a heart  of 
a cannibal,  much  more  a judge’s,  who,  being  a man  of  the  world,  had  presently  the  advantage 
of  the  match  and  preferment  of  his  daughter  in  the  wind  ; though  he  much  doubted  the  consent 
of  Don  Lewis’s  father,  who  he  knew  designed  to  match  his  son  into  the  nobility. 

By  this  time  Don  Quixote’s  entreaties  more  than  threats  had  parted  the  fray  at  the  inn  door ; 
the  strangers  paying  their  reckoning  went  off,  and  Don  Lewis’s  servants  stood  waiting  the  result 
of  the  judge’s  discourse  with  their  young  master;  when,  most  singular  to  relate,  who  should, 
come  into  the  inn  but  the  barber  whom  Don  Quixote  had  robbed  of  Mambrino’s  helmet,  and 
Sancho  of  the  pack-saddle.  As  he  was  leading  his  beast  very  gravely  to  the  stable,  he  spies 
Sancho  mending  something  about  the  pannel  ; he  knew  him  presently,  and  setting  upon  him  very 
roughly,  “ Ay,  master  thief,  master  rogue,”  said  he,  “ have  I caught  you  at  last,  and  all  my  ass’s 
furniture  in  your  hands  too  ? ” 

Sancho,  finding  himself  so  unexpectedly  assaulted,  and  nettled  at  the  dishonourable  terms  of 
his  language,  laying  fast  hold  on  the  pannel  with  one  hand,  gave  the  barber  such  a blow  on  the 
mouth  with  the  other  as  set  all  his  teeth  a-bleeding.  For  all  this  the  barber  stuck  by  his  hold,  and 
cried  out  so  loud  that  the  whole  house  was  alarmed  at  the  noise  and  scuffle.  “ I command  you,, 
gentlemen,”  continued  he,  “ to  assist  me  in  the  king’s  name ; for  this  rogue  has  robbed  me  on  the 
king’s  highway,  and  would  now  murder  me,  because  I seize  upon  my  goods.” 

“ That  is  a lie  ! ” cried  Sancho;  “ it  was  no  robbery  on  the  king’s  highway,  but  lawful  plunder, 
won  by  my  lord  Don  Quixote  fairly  in  the  field.” 

The  Don  himself  was  now  come  up,  very  proud  of  his  squire’s  behaviour  on  this  occasion, 
accounting  him  thenceforth  a man  of  spirit,  and  designing  him  the  honour  of  knighthood  on  the 
first  opportunity,  thinking  his  courage  might  prove  a future  ornament  to  the  order. 

Among  other  things  which  the  barber  urged  to  prove  his  claim,  “ Gentlemen,”  said  he,  “this 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


3 -O 

pack-saddle  is  as  certainly  my  pack-saddle  as  I hope  to  die  in  my  bed ; I know  it  as  well  as  if  it 
had  been  bred  and  born  with  me.  Nay,  my  very  ass  will  witness  for  me ; do  but  try  the  saddle  on 
him,  and  if  it  does  not  fit  him  as  close  as  can  be,  call  me  then  a liar.  Nay,  more  than  that, 
gentlemen,  that  very  day  when  they  robbed  me  of  my  pack-saddle,  they  took  away  a special  new 
basin  which  was  never  used,  and  which  cost  me  a crown.’’ 

Here  Don  Quixote  could  no  longer  contain  himself,  but.  thrusting  between  them,  he  parted 
them  ; and  having  caused  the  pack-saddle  to  be  deposited  on  the  ground  to  open  view,  till  the 
matter  came  to  a final  decision,  “ That  this  honourable  company  may  know,”  cried  he,  “ in  what  a 
manifest  error  this  honest  squire  persists,  take  notice  how  he  degrades  that  with  the  name  of  basin 
which  was,  is,  and  shall  be,  the  helmet  of  Mambrino,  which  I fairly  won  from  him  in  the  field,  and 
lawfully  made  myself  lord  of  by  force  of  arms.  As  to  the  pack-saddle,  it  is  a concern  that  is 
beneath  my  regard  ; all  I have  to  urge  in  that  affair  is,  that  my  squire  begged  my  permission  to 
strip  that  vanquished  coward’s  horse  of  his  trappings,  to  adorn  his  own.  He  had  my  authority  for 
the  deed,  and  he  took  them.  And  now  for  his  converting  it  from  a horse’s  furniture  to  a pack- 
saddle,  no  other  reason  can  be  brought,  but  that  such  transformations  frequently  occur  in  the  affairs 
of  chivalry.  For  a confirmation  of  this  despatch,  run,  Sancho,  and  produce  the  helmet,  which  this 
squire  would  maintain  to  be  a basin.” 

“O’  my  faith,  sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ if  this  be  all  you  can  say  for  yourself,  Mambrino’s  helmet  will 
prove  as  arrant  a basin  as  this  same  man’s  furniture  is  a mere  pack-saddle.” 

“ Obey  my  orders  ! ” said  Don  Quixote  ; “ I cannot  believe  that  everything  in  this  castle  will 
be  guided  by  enchantment.” 

Sancho  brought  the  basin,  which  Don  Quixote,  holding  up  in  his  hands,  “ Behold,  gentlemen,” 
continued  he,  “ with  what  face  can  this  impudent  squire  affirm  this  to  be  a basin,  and  not  the 
helmet  I mentioned?  Now,  I swear  before  you  all,  by  the  order  of  knighthood  which  I profess,  that 
that  is  the  same  individual  helmet  which  I won  from  him,  without  the  least  addition  or  diminution.” 

“ That  I will  swear,”  said  Sancho  ; “ for  since  my  lord  won  it,  he  never  fought  but  once  in  it, 
and  that  was  the  battle  wherein  he  freed  those  ungracious  galley  slaves,  who,  by  the  same  token, 
wouid  have  knocked  out  his  brains  with  a shower  of  stones,  had  not  this  same  honest  basin-helmet 
saved  his  skull.” 


CHAPTER  XLI. 

THE  CONTROVERSY  ABOUT  MAMBRINO’S  HELMET  AND  THE  PACK-SADDLE  DISPUTED  AND  DECIDED  : WITH 

OTHER  ACCIDENTS,  NOT  MORE  STRANGE  THAN  TRUE. 

“ Y A RAY,  good  gentlemen,”  said  the  barber,  “let  us  have  your  opinion  in  this  matter;  I suppose 
you  will  grant  this  same  helmet  to  be  a basin.” 

“ He  that  dares  grant  any  such  thing,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ must  know  that  he  lies  plainly,  if  a 
knight ; but  if  a squire,  he  lies  abominably.” 

Our  barber,  who  was  privy  to  the  whole  matter,  to  humour  the  jest,  and  carry  the  diversion  a 
little  higher,  took  up  the  other  shaver:  “ Master  Barber — you  must  pardon  me,  sir,  if  I do  not  give 
you  your  titles — I must  let  you  understand,”  said  he,  “ that  I have  served  an  apprenticeship  to  your 
trade,  and  have  been  a freeman  in  the  company  these  thirty  years,  and  therefore  am  not  to  learn 
what  belongs  to  shaving.  You  must  likewise  know  that  I have  been  a soldier  too  in  my  younger 
days,  and  consequently  understand  the  differences  between  a helmet,  a morion,  and  a close  helmet, 
with  all  other  accoutrements  belonging  to  a man-of-arms.  Yet  I say,  with  submission  still  to  better 
judgment,  that  this  piece,  here  in  dispute  before  us,  is  as  far  from  being  a basin  as  light  is  from 
darkness.  Withal  I affirm,  on  the  other  hand,  that  although  it  be  a helmet,  it  is  not  a complete 
one.” 


41 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Q 2 ° 


“ Right,”  said  the  Don  ; “ for  the  lower  part  and  the  beaver  are  wanting.” 

“ A clear  case,  a clear  case  ! ” said  the  curate,  Cardenio,  Don  Ferdinand,  and  his  companions ; 
and  the  judge  himself,  had  not  Lewis’s  concern  made  him  thoughtful,  would  have  humoured  the 
matter. 

“Have  mercy  upon  us  now!”  said  the  poor  barber,  half  distracted  ; “is  it  possible  that  so 
many  honourable  gentlemen  should  know  a basin  or  a helmet  no  better  than  this  comes  to  ? 
I defy  the  wisest  university  in  Spain,  with  all  their  scholarship,  to  show  me  the  like.  Well, 
if  it  must  be  a helmet,  it  must  be  a helmet,  that  is  all.  And,  by  the  same  rule,  my  pack-saddle 
must  troop  too,  as  this  gentleman  says.” 

“ I must  confess,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ as  to  outward  appearance  it  is  a pack-saddle  ; but,  as  I 
have  already  said,  I will  not  pretend  to  determine  the  dispute  as  to  that  point.” 

“ Nay,”  said  the  curate,  “ if  Don  Quixote  speak  not,  the  matter  will  never  come  to  a decision  ; 
because,  in  all  affairs  of  chivalry,  we  must  all  give  him  the  preference.” 

“ I swear,  worthy  gentlemen,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  the  adventures  I have  encountered  in 
this  castle  are  so  strange  and  supernatural,  that  I must  infallibly  conclude  them  the  effects  of  pure 
magic  and  enchantment.  The  first  time  I ever  entered  its  gates,  I was  strangely  embarrassed  by  an 
enchanted  Moor  that  inhabited  it,  and  Sancho  himself  had  no  better  entertainment  from  his 
attendants  ; and  last  night  I hung  suspended  almost  two  hours  by  this  arm,  without  the  power  of 
helping  myself,  or  of  assigning  any  reasonable  cause  of  my  misfortune  ; so  that  for  me  to  meddle  or 
give  my  opinion  in  such  confused  and  intricate  events  would  appear  presumption.  I have  already 
given  my  final  determination  as  to  the  helmet  in  controversy,  but  dare  pronounce  no  definitive 
sentence  on  the  pack-saddle,  but  shall  remit  it  to  the  discerning  judgment  of  the  company  ; perhaps 
the  power  of  enchantment  may  not  prevail  on  you  that  are  not  dubbed  knights,  so  that  your 
understandings  may  be  free,  and  your  judicial  faculties  more  piercing  to  enter  into  the  true  nature 
of  these  events,  and  not  conclude  upon  them  from  their  appearances.” 

“ Undoubtedly,”  answered  Don  Ferdinand,  “the  decision  of  this  process  depends  upon  our 
sentiments,  according  to  Don  Quixote’s  opinion  ; that  the  matter,  therefore,  may  be  fairly 
discussed,  and  that  we  may  proceed  upon  solid  and  firm  grounds,  we  will  put  it  to  the  vote.  Let 
every  one  give  me  his  suffrage  in  my  ear,  and  I will  oblige  myself  to  report  them  faithfully  to 
the  board.” 

To  those  that  knew  Don  Quixote  this  proved  excellent  sport ; but  to  others  unacquainted  with 
his  humour,  as  Don  Lewis  and  his  four  servants,  it  appeared  the  most  ridiculous  stuff  in  nature  ; 
three  other  travellers  too  that  happened  to  call  in  by  the  way,  and  were  found  to  be  officers  of  the 
holy  brotherhood,  or  pursuivants,  thought  the  people  were  all  bewitched  in  good  earnest.  But  the 
barber  was  quite  at  his  wit’s  end,  to  think  that  his  basin,  then  and  there  present  before  his  eyes, 
was  become  the  helmet  of  Mambrino  ; and  that  his  pack-saddle  was  likewise  going  to  be  changed 
into  rich  horse-furniture.  Everybody  laughed  very  heartily  to  see  Don  Ferdinand  whispering 
each  particular  person  very  gravely,  to  have  his  vote  upon  the  important  contention  of  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


323 


pack-saddle.  When  he  had  gone  the  rounds  among  his  own  faction,  that  were  all  privy  to  the 
jest,  “ Honest  fellow,”  said  he  very  loudly,  “ I grow  weary  of  asking  so  many  impertinent 
questions ; every  man  has  his  answer  at  his  tongue’s  end,  that  it  is  mere  madness  to  call  this  a 
pack-saddle,  and  that  it  is  positively,  nernine  contradicente , right  horse-furniture,  and  great  horse- 
furniture,  too  ; besides,  friend,  your  allegations  and  proofs  are  of  no  force  ; therefore,  in  spite  of 
your  ass  and  you  too,  we  give  it  for  the  defendant,  that  this  is  and  will  continue  the  furniture 
of  a horse,  nay,  and  of  a great  horse  too.” 

“ Now,”  said  the  barber,  “ you  are  all  deceived  ; for  my  conscience  plainly  tells  me  it  is  a 
downright  pack-saddle  ; but  I have  lost  it  according  to  law,  and  so  fare  it  well.  But  I am  neither 
mad  nor  drunk,  sure,  for  I am  fresh  and  fasting  this  morning  from  everything  but  sin.” 

The  barber’s  raving  was  no  less  diverting  than  Don  Quixote’s  clamours.  “ Sentence  is 
passed,”  cried  he;  “and  let  every  man  take  possession  of  his  goods  and  chattels,  and  Heaven  give 
him  joy.” 

“ This  is  a jest,  a mere  jest,”  said  one  of  the  four  servants  ; “ certainly,  gentlemen,  you  cannot 
be  in  earnest ; you  are  too  wise  to  talk  at  this  rate ; for  my  part,  I say  and  will  maintain  it,  for 
there  is  no  reason  the  barber  should  be  wronged,  that  this  is  a basin,  and  that  the  pack-saddle  of 
a he  ass.” 

“ May  not  it  be  a she  ass’s  pack-saddle,  friend  ?”  said  the  curate. 

“ That  is  all  one,  sir,”  said  the  fellow ; “ the  question  is  not  whether  it  be  a he  or  a she 
ass’s  pack-saddle,  but  whether  it  be  a pack-saddle  or  not ; that  is  the  matter,  sir.” 

One  of  the  officers  of  the  holy  brotherhood,  who  had  heard  the  whole  controversy,  very  angry 
to  hear  such  an  error  maintained,  “ Gentlemen,”  said  he,  “ this  is  no  more  a horse’s  saddle  than  it 
is  my  father,  and  he  that  says  the  contrary  is  drunk  or  mad.” 

“You  lie  like  an  unmannerly  rascal,”  said  the  knight ; and  at  the  same  time  with  his  lance, 
which  he  had  always  ready  for  such  occasions,  he  offered  such  a blow  at  the  officer’s  head,  that  had 
not  the  fellow  leaped  aside,  it  would  have  laid  him  flat.  The  lance  flew  into  pieces,  and  the  rest 
of  the  officers,  seeing  their  comrade  so  abused,  cried  out  for  help,  charging  every  one  to  aid  and 
assist  the  holy  brotherhood.  The  innkeeper  being  one  of  the  fraternity,  ran  for  his  sword  and  rod, 
and  then  joined  his  fellows.  Don  Lewis’s  servants  got  round  their  master  to  defend  him  from 
harm,  and  secure  him  lest  he  should  make  his  escape  in  the  scuffle.  The  barber,  seeing  the  whole 
house  turned  topsy-turvy,  laid  hold  again  on  his  pack-saddle ; but  Sancho,  who  watched  his 
motions,  was  as  ready  as  he,  and  secured  the  other  end  of  it. 

Don  Quixote  drew  and  assaulted  the  officers  pell-mell.  Don  Lewis  called  to  his  servants  to 
join  Don  Quixote  and  the  gentlemen  that  sided  with  him  ; for  Cardenio,  Don  Ferdinand,  and 
his  other  friends  had  engaged  on  his  side.  The  curate  cried  out,  the  landlady  shrieked,  her 
daughter  wept,  Maritornes  howled,  Dorothea  was  distracted  with  fear,  Lucinda  could  not  tell 
what  to  do,  and  Donna  Clara  was  strangely  frighted  ; the  barber  pommelled  Sancho,  and  Sancho 
belaboured  the  barber.  One  of  Don  Lewis’s  servants  went  to  hold  him,  but  he  gave  him  such  a 


324  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

rebuke  on  his  jaws,  that  his  teeth  had  like  to  have  forsook  their  station  ; and  then  the  judge  took 
him  into  his  protection.  Don  Ferdinand  had  got  one  of  the  officers  down,  and  laid  on  him 
back  and  side.  The  innkeeper  still  cried  out,  “ Help  the  holy  brotherhood  !”  so  that  the  whole 
house  was  a medley  of  wailings,  cries,  shrieks,  confusions,  fears,  terrors,  disasters,  slashes,  buffets, 

blows,  kicks,  cuffs,  battery,  and  bloodshed. 

In  the  greatest  heat  of  this  hurly-burly  it  came  into  Don  Quixote's  head  that  he  was  certainly 
involved  in  the  disorder  and  confusion  of  King  Agramant's  camp ; and  calling  out  with  a voice 
that  shook  the  whole  house;  - Hold,  valorous  knights!”  said  he,  “all  hold  your  furious  hands, 
sheathe  all  your  swords,  let  none  presume  to  strike  on  pain  of  death,  but  hear  me  speak."  The 
loud  and  monstrous  voice  surprised  everybody  into  obedience,  and  the  Don  proceeded  : “ I to 
you  before,  Gentlemen,  that  this  castle  was  enchanted,  and  that  some  legion  of  spirits  did  inhabit 
it  • now  let  your  own  eyes  confirm  my  words  : do  not  you  behold  the  strange  and  horrid  confusion 
of  King  Agramant's  army  removed  hither,  and  put  in  execution  among  us  ? See,  see  how  they 
ficrht  for  the  sword,  and  yonder  for  the  horse ; behold  how  some  contend  for  the  helmet,  and  here 
others  battle  it  for  the  standard  ; and  all  fight  we  do  not  know  how,  nor  can  tell  why.  Let 
therefore  my  Lord  Judge,  and  his  reverence,  Master  Curate,  represent,  one  King  Agramant,  and 
the  other  King  Sobrino,  and  by  their  wisdom  and  conduct  appease  tms  tumult ; for,  by  the  powers 
divine,  it  were  a wrong  to  honour,  and  a blot  on  chivalry,  to  let  so  many  worthies  as  are  here  met 

kill  one  another  for  such  trifles.” 

Don  Ouixote’s  words  were  Hebrew  to  the  officers,  who,  having  been  roughly  handled  by 
Cardenio,  Ferdinand,  and  his  friends,  would  not  give  it  over  so.  But  the  barber  was  content ; for 
Sancho  had  demolished  his  beard  and  pack-saddle  both  in  the  scuffle  ; the  squire  dutifully  retreate 
at  the  first  sound  of  his  master's  voice;  Don  Lewis's  servants  were  calm,  finding  it  their  best  way 
,0  be  quiet ; but  the  innkeeper  was  refractory.  He  swore  that  madman  ought  to  be  punished  for 
his  ill  behaviour,  and  that  every  hour  he  was  making  some  disturbance  01  another  in  his  non  se 
But  at  last  the  matter  was  made  up,  the  pack-saddle  was  agreed  to  be  horse  furniture, 
a helmet,  and  the  inn  a castle,  till  the  end  of  time,  if  Don  Quixote  would  have  it  so.  on 
Lewis's  business  came  next  in  play.  The  judge,  in  concert  with  Don  Ferdinand,  Carden, o and 
the  curate,  resolved  that  Don  Ferdinand  should  interpose  his  authority  on  Don  Lewis  s behalf,  an 
let  his  servants  know  that  he  would  carry  him  to  Andalusia,  where  he  should  be  entertame 
according  to  his  quality  by  his  brother  the  marquis ; and  they  should  not  oppose  this  design  seeing 
Don  Lewis  was  positively  resolved  not  to  be  forced  to  go  back  to  his  father  5 et.  ° . 

quality,  and  Don  Lewis’s  resolution,  prevailed  on  the  fellows  to  order  matters  so,  that  three  c 
them  mio-ht  return  to  acquaint  their  old  master,  and  the  fourth  wait  on  Don  Lewis 
monstrous  heap  of  confusion  and  disorder  was  digested  into  form,  by  the  authority  of  Agramant, 

and  wisdom  of  King  Sobrino.  . , 

But  the  enemy  of  peace  finding  his  project  of  setting  them  all  by  the  ears  so  e u e , reso 

once  again  to  have  another  trial  of  skill,  and  play  his  game  with  them  all  the  second  bout;  lor 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


325 


though  the  officers,  understanding  the  quality  of  their  adversaries,  were  willing  to  desist,  yet  one 
of  them,  whom  Don  Ferdinand  had  kicked  most  unmercifully,  remembering  that  among  other 
warrants,  he  had  one  to  apprehend  Don  Quixote,  for  setting  free  the  galley-slaves,  as  Sancho 
had  been  sadly  afraid  would  come  about,  resolved  to  examine  if  the  marks  and  tokens  given  of  Don 
Quixote  agreed  with  this  person  ; then  drawing  out  a parchment,  and  opening  his  warrant,  he  made 
a shift  to  read  it,  and  at  every  other  word  looked  cunningly  on  Don  Quixote’s  face  ; whereupon 
having  folded  up  the  parchment,  and  taking  his  warrant  in  his  left  hand,  he  clapped  his  right  hand 
fast  in  the  knight’s  collar,  crying,  “ You  are  the  king’s  prisoner  ! Gentlemen,  I am  an  officer,, 
here’s  my  warrant.  I charge  you  all  to  aid  and  assist  the  holy  brotherhood.”  Don  Quixote,  finding 
himself  used  so  rudely,  by  one  whom  he  took  to  be  a pitiful  scoundrel,  kindled  up  into  such  a rage,, 
that  he  shook  with  indignation,  and  catching  the  fellow  by  the  neck  with  both  his  hands,  squeezed 
him  so  violently,  that  if  his  companions  had  not  presently  freed  him,  the  knight  would  certainly 
have  throttled  him  before  he  had  quitted  his  hold. 

The  innkeeper  being  obliged  to  assist  his  brother  officer,  presently  joined  him  : the  hostess 
seeing  her  husband  engaging  a second  time,  raised  a new  outcry,  and  her  daughter  and  Maritornes 
raised  the  same  tune,  sometimes  praying,  sometimes  crying,  sometimes  scolding.  Sancho, 
seeing  what  passed,  “ I believe,”  said  he,  “ my  master  is  in  the  right  ; this  place  is  haunted, 
that  is  certain;  there  is  no  living  quietly  an  hour  together.”  At  last  Don  Ferdinand  parted. 
Don  Quixote  and  the  officer,  who  were  both  pretty  well  pleased  to  quit  their  bargain.  However, 
the  officers  still  demanded  their  prisoner,  and  to  have  him  delivered  bound  into  their  hands, 
commanding  all  the  company  a second  time  to  help  and  assist  them  in  securing  that  public  robber 
upon  the  king’s  high  road.  / | 

Don  Quixote  smiled  at  the  supposed  simplicity  of  the  fellows  ; at  last,  with  solemn  gravity 
“ Come  hither,”  said  he,  “ you  scoundrel ! dare  you  call  loosing  the  fettered,  freeing  the  captive, 
helping  the  miserable,  raising  the  fallen,  and  supplying  the  indigent ; dare  you,  I say,  base-spirited 
rascals,  call  these  actions  robbery  ? Your  thoughts,  indeed,  are  too  grovelling  and  servile  to 
understand  or  reach  the  pitch  of  chivalry,  otherwise  you  had  understood  that  even  the  shadow  of 
a knight-errant  had  claim  to  your  adoration.  You  a band  of  officers  ! you  are  a pack  of  rogues 
indeed,  and  robbers  on  the  highway  by  authority.  What  blockhead  of  a magistrate  durst  issue  out 
a warrant  to  apprehend  a knight-errant  like  me  ? Could  not  his  ignorance  find  out  that  we  are 
exempt  from  all  courts  of  judicature  ? that  our  valour  is  the  bench,  our  will  the  common  law, 
and  our  sword  the  executioner  of  justice  ? Could  not  his  dulness  inform  him  that  no  rank  of 
nobility  or  peerage  enjoys  more  immunities  and  privileges  ? Has  he  any  precedent  that  a knight- 
errant  ever  paid  taxes,  subsidy,  poll-money,  or  so  much  as  fare  or  ferry  ? What  tailor  ever  had 
money  for  his  clothes,  or  what  constable  ever  made  him  a reckoning  for  lodging  in  his  castle  ? 

hat  kin&s  are  not  proud  of  his  company  ; and  what  damsels  of  his  love  ? And  lastly,  did  you 
ever  read  of  any  knight-errant  that  ever  was,  is,  or  shall  be,  that  could  not,  with  his  single  force, 
cudgel  four  hundred  such  rogues  as  you  to  pieces,  if  they  have  the  impudence  to  oppose  him  ?” 


CHAPTER  XLII. 

THE  NOTABLE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  HOLY  BROTHERHOOD,  WITH  DON  QUIXOTE’S  GREAT 

FEROCITY  AND  ENCHANTMENT. 


WHILST  Don  Quixote  talked  at  this  rate,  the  curate  endeavoured  to  persuade  the 
officers  that  he  was  distracted,  as  they  might  easily  gather  from  his  words  and 
actions  ; and  therefore,  though  they  should  carry  him  before  a magistrate,  he  would  be  presently 
acquitted,  as  being  a madman.  He  that  had  the  warrant  made  answer,  that  it  was  not  his  business 
to  examine  whether  he  were  mad  or  not ; he  was  an  officer  in  commission,  and  must  obey  orders  ; 
and  accordingly  was  resolved  to  deliver  him  up  to  the  superior  power,  which  once  done,  they  might 
acquit  him  five  hundred  times  if  they  would.  But  for  all  that,  the  curate  persisted  they  should  not 
carry  Don  Quixote  away  with  them  this  time,  adding,  that  the  knight  himself  would  by  no  means 
be  brought  to  it ; and  in  short,  said  so  much,  that  they  had  been  greater  fools  than  he,  could  they 
not  have  plainly  seen  his  madness.  They  therefore  not  only  desisted,  but  offered  their  service  in 
compounding  the  difference  between  Sancho  and  the  barber.  Their  mediation  was  accepted,  they 
being  officers  of  justice,  and  succeeded  so  well,  that  both  parties  stood  to  their  arbitration,  though 
not  entirely  satisfied  with  their  award,  which  ordered  them  to  change  their  pannels,  but  not  thei-r 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


327 


halters  nor  the  girths.  The  curate  made  up  the  business  of  the  basin,  paying  the  barber,  under- 
hand, eight  reals  for  it,  and  getting  a general  release  under  his  hand  of  all  claims  or  actions 
concerning  it,  and  all  things  else.  These  two  important  differences  being  so  happily  decided,  the 
only  obstacles  to  a general  peace  were  Don  Lewis’s  servants  and  the  innkeeper  ; the  first  were 
prevailed  upon  to  accept  the  proposals  offered,  which  were,  that  three  of  them  should  go  home,  and 
the  fourth  attend  Don  Lewis,  where  Don  Ferdinand  should  appoint.  Thus  this  difference  was 
made  up,  to  the  unspeakable  joy  of  Donna  Clara.  Zoraida,  not  well  understanding  anything  that 
passed,  was  sad  and  cheerful  by  turns,  as  she  observed  others  to  be  by  their  countenances, 
especially  her  beloved  Spaniard,  on  whom  her  eyes  were  more  particularly  fixed.  The  innkeeper 
made  a hideous  bawling,  having  discovered  that  the  barber  had  received  money  for  his  basin. 
He  knew  no  reason,  he  said,  why  he  should  not  be  paid  as  well  as  other  folks,  and  swore  that 
Rozinante  and  Sancho’s  ass  should  pay  for  their  master’s  extravagance  before  they  should  leave 
his  stable.  The  curate  pacified  him,  and  Don  Ferdinand  paid  him  his  bill.  All  things  thus 
accommodated,  the  inn  no  longer  resembled  the  confusion  of  Agramant’s  camp,  but  rather  the 
universal  peace  of  Augustus’s  reign;  upon  which  the  curate  and  Don  Ferdinand  had  the  thanks  of 
the  house,  as  a just  acknowledgment  for  their  so  effectual  mediation. 

Don  Quixote  being  now  free  from  the  difficulties  and  delays  that  lately  embarrassed  him,  held 
it  high  time  to  prosecute  his  voyage,  and  bring  to  some  decision  the  general  enterprise  which  he 
had  the  voice  and  election  for.  He  therefore  fully  resolved  to  press  his  departure,  and  fell  on 
his  knees  before  Dorothea,  but  she  would  not  hear  him  in  that  posture,  but  prevailed  upon  him 
to  rise  : he  then  addressing  her  in  his  usual  forms,  “ Most  beautiful  lady,”  said  he,  “ it  is  a known 
proverb,  that  ‘ diligence  is  the  mother  of  success ; ’ and  we  have  found  the  greatest  successes  in  war 
still  to  depend  on  expedition  and  dispatch,  by  preventing  the  enemy’s  design,  and  forcing  a victory 
before  an  assault  is  expected.  My  inference  from  this,  most  high  and  illustrious  lady,  is,  that  our 
residence  in  this  castle  appears  nothing  conducive  to  our  designs,  but  may  prove  dangerous  ; for 
we  may  reasonably  suppose  that  our  enemy,  the  giant,  may  learn  by  spies,  or  some  other  secret 
intelligence,  the  scheme  of  our  intentions,  and  consequently  fortify  himself  in  some  inexpugnable 
fortress  against  the  power  of  our  utmost  endeavours,  and  so  the  strength  of  my  invincible  arm  may 
be  ineffectual.  Let  us  therefore,  dear  madam,  by  our  diligence  and  sudden  departure  hence, 
prevent  any  such  designs,  and  force  our  good  fortune,  by  missing  no  opportunity  that  we  may 
lay  hold  of.” 

Here  he  stopped,  waiting  the  princess’s  answer.  She,  with  a grave  aspect,  and  style 
suiting  his  extravagance,  replied,  “ The  great  inclination  and  indefatigable  desire  you  show,  worthy 
knight,  in  assisting  the  injured,  and  restoring  the  oppressed,  lay  a fair  claim  to  the  praises  and 
universal  thanks  of  mankind  ; but  your  singular  concern  and  industrious  application  in  assisting 
me,  deserves  my  particular  acknowledgments  and  gratification  ; and  I shall  make  it  my  peculiar 
request  to  Heaven,  that  your  generous  designs  in  my  favour  may  be  soon  accomplished,  that  I may 
be  enabled  to  convince  you  of  the  honour  and  gratitude  that  may  be  found  in  some  oi  our  sex.  As 


328 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


to  our  departure,  I shall  depend  upon  your  pleasure,  to  whose  management  I have  not  only 
committed  the  care  of  my  person,  but  also  resigned  the  whole  power  of  command.” 

“ Then,  by  the  assistance  of  the  Divine  Power,”  answered  he,  “ I will  lose  no  oppor- 
tunity of  reinstating  your  highness,  since  you  condescend  to  humble  yourself  to  my  orders. 
Let  our  march  be  sudden,  for  the  eagerness  of  my  desires,  the  length  of  the  journey,  and  the 
dangers  of  delay,  are  great  spurs  to  my  dispatch.  Since  therefore  Heaven  has  not  created 
nor  hell  seen,  the  man  I ever  feared,  fly  Sancho,  saddle  Rozinante,  harness  your  ass,  and 
make  ready  the  lady’s  palfrey  ; let  us  take  leave  of  the  governor  here,  and  these  other  lords, 
and  set  out  from  hence  immediately.” 

Poor  Sancho,  hearing  all  that  passed,  shook  his  head.  “ Stay,  stay,  master,”  said  he  ; “ there  is 
always  more  tricks  in  a town  than  are  talked  of,  with  reverence  be  it  spoken.” 

“ Ho,  villain  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote,  “ what  tricks  can  any  town  or  city  show  to  impair  my 
credit  ? ” 

“ Nay,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “if  you  grow  angry,  I can  hold  my  tongue;  but  there  are 
some  things  which  you  ought  to  hear,  and  I should  tell,  as  becomes  a trusty  squire  and  honest 
servant.” 

“ Say  what  thou  wilt,”  said  the  knight,  “ so  it  tend  not  to  cowardice ; for  if  thou  art  afraid, 
keep  it  to  thyself,  and  trouble  not  me  with  the  mention  of  fear,  which  my  soul  abhors.” 

“ Pshaw  ! hang  fear ! ” answered  Sancho ; “ that  is  not  the  matter ; but  I must  tell  you,  sir,  that 
which  is  as  certain  and  plain  as  the  nose  on  your  face.  This  same  madam  here,  that  calls  herself 
the  queen  of  the  great  kingdom  of  Micomicon,  is  no  more  a queen  than  my  grandam.  For,  do 
but  consider,  sir,  if  she  were  such  a fine  queen  as  you  believe,  can  you  imagine  she  would  always 
be  kissing  a certain  person,  that  shall  be  nameless,  in  this  company  ? ” Dorothea  blushed  at 
Sancho’s  words,  for  Don  Ferdinand  had,  indeed,  sometimes,  in  private,  taken  the  freedom  with 
his  lips  to  reap  some  part  of  the  reward  his  affection  deserved  ; which  Sancho,  spying  by  chance, 
put  constructions  upon  it  to  the  disadvantage  of  her  royalty.  She,  nevertheless,  took  no  notice  of 
his  aspersion,  but  let  him  go  on.  “ I say  this,  sir,”  continued  he,  “ because  after  our  trudging 
through  all  weathers,  fair  and  foul,  day  after  night,  and  night  after  day,  this  same  person  in 
the  inn  here  is  like  to  divert  himself  at  our  expense,  and  to  gather  the  fruit  of  our  labours. 
I think  therefore,  master,  there  is  no  reason,  do  you  see,  for  saddling  Rozinante,  harnessing  my 
ass,  or  making  ready  the  lady’s  palfrey  ; for  we  had  better  stay  where  we  are ; and  let  every 
woman  brew  as  she  bakes,  and  every  man  that  is  hungry  go  to  dinner.” 

Heavens  ! into  what  a fury  did  these  disrespectful  words  of  Sancho  put  the  knight  ! His 
whole  body  shook,  his  tongue  faltered,  his  eyes  glowed.  “ Thou  villanous,  ignorant,  rash, 
unmannerly,  blasphemous  detractor ! ” said  he,  “ how  darest  thou  entertain  such  base  and  dis- 
honourable thoughts,  much  more  utter  thy  rude  and  contemptible  suspicions  before  me  and  this 
honourable  presence  ? Away  from  my  sight,  thou  monster  of  nature,  magazine  of  lies,  cupboard  of 
deceits,  granary  of  guile,  publisher  of  follies,  foe  of  all  honour  1 Away,  and  never  let  me  see  thy 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


329 


face  again,  on  pain  of  my  most  furious  indignation  ! ” Then  bending  his  angry  brows,  puffing  his 
cheeks,  and  stamping  on  the  ground,  he  gave  Sancho  such  a look  as  almost  frightened  the  poor 
fellow  to  annihilation. 

In  the  height  of  this  consternation,  all  that  the  poor  squire  could  do  was  to  turn  his  back, 
and  sneak  out  of  the  room.  But  Dorothea,  knowing  the  knight’s  temper,  undertook  to  mitigate  his 
anger.  “ Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,”  said  she,  “ assuage  your  wrath,  I beseech  you  ; it  is 
below  your  dignity  to  be  offended  at  these  idle  words  of  your  squire  ; and  I dare  not  affirm  but 
that  he  has  some  colour  of  reason  for  what  he  said  ; for  it  were  uncharitable  to  suspect  his  sincere 
understanding  and  honest  principles  of  any  false  or  malicious  slander  or  accusation.  We  must 
therefore  search  deeper  into  this  affair,  and  believe  that,  as  you  have  found  all  transactions  in  this 
castle  governed  by  enchantment,  so  some  diabolical  illusion  has  appeared  to  Sancho,  and  repre- 
sented to  his  enchanted  sight  what  he  asserts  to  my  dishonour.” 

“Now,  by  the  powers  supreme,”  said  the  knight,  “your  highness  has  cut  the  knot.  This 
misdemeanour  of  that  poor  fellow  must  be  attributed  purely  to  enchantment,  and  the  power  of 
some  malicious  apparition  ; for  the  good  nature  and  simplicity  of  the  poor  wretch  could  never 
invent  a lie,  or  be  guilty  of  an  aspersion  to  any  one’s  disadvantage.” 

“ It  is  evident,”  said  Don  Ferdinand;  “we  therefore  all  intercede  in  behalf  of  honest  Sancho, 
that  he  may  be  again  restored  to  your  favour,  sicut  erat  in  principio,  before  these  illusions  had 
imposed  upon  his  sense.”  Don  Quixote  complied,  and  the  curate  brought  in  poor  Sancho 
trembling,  who  on  his  knees  made  an  humble  acknowledgment  of  his  crime,  and  begged  to  have 
his  pardon  confirmed  by  a gracious  kiss  of  his  master’s  hand.  Don  Quixote  gave  him  his  hand 
and  his  blessing.  “ Now,  Sancho,”  said  he,  “ will  you  hereafter  believe  what  I so  often  have  told 
you,  that  the  power  of  enchantment  overrules  everything  in  this  castle  ? ” 

“ I will,  an  it  like  your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ all  but  my  tossing  in  a blanket ; for  really, 
sir,  that  happened  according  to  the  ordinary  course  of  things.” 

“ Believe  it  not,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ for  were  I not  convinced  of  the  contrary, 
you  should  have  plentiful  revenge  ; but  neither  then  nor  now  could  I ever  find  any  object  to 
wreak  my  fury  or  resentment  on.” 

Every  one  desired  to  know  what  was  the  business  in  question  ; whereupon  the  innkeeper 

gave  them  an  account  of  Sancho’s  tossing,  which  set  them  all  a-laughing,  and  would  have  made 

Sancho  angry,  had  not  his  master  afresh  assured  him  that  it  was  only  a mere  illusion,  which, 

though  the  squire  believed  not,  he  held  his  tongue.  The  whole  company  having  passed  two  days 

in  the  inn,  bethought  themselves  of  departing ; and  the  curate  and  barber  found  out  a device  to 

carry  home  Don  Quixote,  without  putting  Don  Ferdinand  and  Dorothea  to  the  trouble  of 

humouring  his  impertinence  any  longer.  They  first  agreed  with  a wagoner  that  went  by  with 

his  team  of  oxen,  to  carry  him  home  : then  had  a kind  of  wooden  cage  made,  so  large  that  the 

knight  might  conveniently  sit  or  lie  in  it.  Presently  after  all  the  company  of  the  inn  disguised 

themselves,  some  with  masks,  others  by  disfiguring  their  faces,  and  the  rest  by  change  of  apparel, 
42 


“Be  not  impatient,  O Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  at  your  imprisonment.”—/.  331. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


331 


so  that  Don  Quixote  should  not  take  them  to  be  the  same  persons.  This  done,  they  all  silently 
entered  his  chamber,  where  he  was  sleeping  very  soundly  after  his  late  fatigues  : they  immediately 
laid  hold  on  him  so  forcibly,  and  held  his  arms  and  legs  so  hard,  that  he  was  not  able  to  stir,  or  do 
anything  but  stare  on  those  odd  figures  which  stood  round  him.  This  instantly  confirmed  him  in 
the  strange  fancy  that  had  so  long  disturbed  his  crazed  understanding,  and  made  him  believe 
himself  undoubtedly  enchanted,  and  those  frightful  figures  to  be  the  spirits  and  demons  of  the 
enchanted  castle.  So  far  the  curate’s  invention  succeeded  to  his  expectation.  Sancho  being  the 
only  person  there  in  his  right  shape  and  senses,  beheld  all  this  very  patiently,  and  though  he  knew 
them  all  very  well,  yet  was  resolved  to  see  the  end  of  it,  ere  he  ventured  to  speak  his  mind.  His 
master  likewise  said  nothing,  patiently  expecting  his  fate,  and  waiting  the  event  of  his  misfortune. 
They  had  by  this  lifted  him  out  of  bed,  and  placing  him  in  the  cage,  they  shut  him  in,  and  nailed 
the  bars  of  it  so  fast,  that  no  small  strength  could  force  them  open.  Then  mounting  him  on 
their  shoulders,  as  they  conveyed  him  out  of  the  chamber-door,  they  heard  as  dreadful  a voice  as 
the  barber’s  lungs  could  bellow  speak  these  words 

“ Be  not  impatient,  O Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  at  your  imprisonment,  since  it  is 
ordained  by  the  Fates,  for  the  more  speedy  accomplishment  of  that  most  noble  adventure  which 
your  incomparable  valour  has  intended.  For  accomplished  it  shall  be,  when  the  rampant 
Manchegan  lion  and  the  white  Tobosian  dove  shall  be  united,  from  whose  wonderful  union  shall 
be  produced  brave  whelps,  which  shall  imitate  the  rampant  paws  of  their  valorous  sire.  And  this 
shall  happen  before  the  bright  pursuer  of  the  fugitive  nymph  shall,  by  his  rapid  and  natural  course, 
take  a double  circumference  in  visitation  of  the  luminous  signs.  And  thou,  the  most  noble  and 
faithful  squire  that  ever  had  sword  on  thigh,  beard  on  face,  or  sense  of  smell  in  nose,  be  not 
dispirited  or  discontented  at  this  captivity  of  the  flower  of  all  chivalry  ; for  very  speedily,  by  the 
eternal  will  of  the  world’s  Creator,  thou  shalt  find  thyself  ennobled  and  exalted  beyond  the 
knowledge  of  thy  greatness.  And  I confirm  to  thee,  from  the  sage  Mentironiana,  that  thou  shalt 
not  be  defrauded  of  the  promises  made  by  thy  noble  lord.  I therefore  conjure  thee  to  follow 
closely  the  steps  of  the  courageous  and  enchanted  knight ; for  it  is  necessarily  enjoined  that  you 
both  go  where  you  both  shall  stay.  The  Fates  have  commanded  me  no  more;  farewell.  For  I 
now  return,  I well  know  whither.” 

The  barber  managed  the  cadence  of  his  voice  so  artificially  towards  the  latter  end  of  his 
prophecy,  that  even  those  who  were  made  acquainted  with  the  jest  had  almost  taken  it  for 
supernatural. 

Don  Quixote  was  much  comforted  at  the  prophecy,  apprehending  presently  the  sense  of  it, 
and  applying  it  to  his  marriage  with  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  to  the  eternal  glory  of  La  Mancha  ; 
upon  the  strength  of  which  belief,  raising  his  voice,  and  heaving  a profound  sigh  ; “ Whatsoever 
thou  art,”  said  he,  “ whose  happy  prognostication  I own  and  acknowledge,  I desire  thee  to 
implore,  in  my  name,  the  wise  magician,  whose  charge  I am,  that  his  power  may  protect  me  in 
this  captivity,  and  not  permit  me  to  perish  before  the  fruition  of  these  grateful  and  incomparable 


JJ- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


promises  made  to  me.  For  the  confirmation  of  such  hopes,  I would  think  my  prison  a palace,  my 
fetters  freedom,  and  this  hard  field-bed  on  which  I lie  more  easy  than  the  softest  down,  or  most 
luxurious  lodgings.  And  as  to  the  consolation  offered  my  squire  Sancho  Panza,  I am  so  convinced 
of  his  honesty,  and  he  has  proved  his  honour  in  so  many  adventures,  that  I mistrust  not  his 
deserting  me,  through  any  change  of  fortune.  And  though  his  or  my  harder  stars  should  disable 
me  from  bestowing  on  him  the  island  I have  promised,  or  some  equivalent,  his  wages  at  least  are 
secured  to  him  by  my  last  will  and  testament,  though  what  he  will  receive  is  more  answerable,  I 
confess,  to  my  estate  and  ability,  than  to  his  services  and  great  deserts.”  Sancho  Panza  made  him 
three  or  four  very  respectful  bows,  and  kissed  both  his  hands,  for  one  alone  he  could  not,  being- 
both  tied  together  ; and  in  an  instant  the  plotters  hoisted  up  the  cage,  and  yoked  it  very 
handsomely  to  the  team  of  oxen. 


\ 


CHAPTER  XLIII. 

PROSECUTING  THE  COURSE  OF  DON  QUIXOTE’S  ENCHANTMENT,  WITH  OTHER  MEMORABLE  OCCURRENCES. 

DON  QUIXOTE  was  not  so  much  amazed  at  his  enchantment  as  at  the  manner  of  it. 

“ Among  all  the  volumes  of  chivalry  that  I have  turned  over,”  said  he,  “ I never  read 
before  of  knights-errant  drawn  in  carts,  or  tugged  along  so  leisurely,  by  such  slothful  animals  as 
oxen.  For  they  used  to  be  hurried  along  with  prodigious  speed,  enveloped  in  some  dark  and 
dusky  cloud  ; or  in  some  fiery  chariot  drawn  by  winged  griffins,  or  some  such  expeditious  creatures ; 
but  I must  confess,  to  be  drawn  thus  by  a team  of  oxen,  staggers  my  understanding  not  a little  ; 
though  perhaps  the  enchanters  of  our  times  take  a different  method  from  those  in  former  ages. 
Or  rather,  the  wise  magicians  have  invented  some  course  in  their  proceedings  for  me,  being  the 
first  reviver  and  restorer  of  arms,  which  have  so  long  been  lost  in  oblivion,  and  rusted  through 
the  disuse  of  chivalry.  What  is  thy  opinion,  my  dear  Sancho?” 

“Why,  truly,  sir.”  said  Sancho,  “I  cannot  tell  what  to  think,  being  not  so  well  read  in  these 
matters  as  your  worship  ; yet  for  all  that,  I am  positive,  and  can  take  my  oath  on  it,  that  these 
same  phantoms  that  run  up  and  down  here  are  not  orthodox.” 

“Orthodox,  my  friend?”  said  Don  Quixote;  “how  can  they  be  orthodox,  when  they  are 


334 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


spirits,  and  have  only  assumed  these  fantastical  bodies  to  surprise  us  into  this  condition  ? To 
convince  you,  endeavour  to  touch  them,  and  you  will  find  their  substances  are  not  material,  but 
only  subtile  air,  and  outward  appearance.” 

“Bless  you,  sir,"  said  Sancho,  “ I have  touched  them,  and  touched  them  again,  sir  ; and  I 
find  this  same  busy  spirit  here,  that  is  fiddling  about,  is  as  plump  and  fat  as  a capon  : besides,  he 
has  another  property  very  different  from  a spirit ; for  the  evil  ones,  they  say,  smell  of  brimstone  and 
other  filthy  things  ; and  this  spark  has  such  a fine  scent  of  essence  about  him,  that  you  may  smell 
him  at  least  half  a league” — meaning  Don  Ferdinand,  who,  in  all  probability,  like  other  gentlemen 
of  his  quality,  had  his  clothes  perfumed. 

“ Alas ! honest  Sancho,"  answered  Don  Quixote  ; “ the  cunning  of  these  fiends  is  above  the 
reach  of  thy  simplicity  ; for  you  must  know,  the  spirits,  as  spirits,  have  no  scent  at  all  ; and  if  they 
should,  it  must  necessarily  be  some  unsavoury  stench,  because  they  still  carry  their  hell  about  them, 
and  the  least  of  a perfume  or  grateful  odour  were  inconsistent  with  their  torments  ; so  that  this 
mistake  of  yours  must  be  attributed  to  some  farther  delusion  of  your  sense.” 

Don  Ferdinand  and  Cardenio,  upon  these  discourses  between  master  and  man,  were  afraid 
that  Sancho  would  spoil  all,  and  therefore  ordered  the  innkeeper  privately  to  get  ready  Rozinante 
and  Sancho’s  ass,  while  the  curate  agreed  with  the  officers  for  so  much  a day  to  conduct  them 
home.  Cardenio  having  hung  Don  Quixote’s  target  on  the  pommel  of  Rozinante’s  saddle,  and  the 
basin  on  the  other  side,  he  signified  to  Sancho  by  signs  that  he  should  mount  his  ass,  and  lead 
Rozinante  by  the  bridle  ; and  then  placed  two  officers  with  their  firelocks  on  each  side  of  the  cart. 

Being  just  ready  to  march,  the  hostess,  her  daughter,  and  Maritornes,  came  to  the  door  to 
take  their  leave  of  the  knight,  pretending  insupportable  grief  for  his  misfortune.  “ Restrain  your 
tears,  most  honourable  ladies,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ for  these  mischances  are  incident  to  those  of 
my  profession  ; and  from  these  disasters  it  is  we  date  the  greatness  of  our  glory  and  renown  ; they 
are  the  effects  of  envy,  which  still  attends  virtuous  and  great  actions,  and  brought  upon  us  by  the 
indirect  means  of  such  princes  and  knights  as  are  emulous  of  our  dignity  and  fame  ; but  spite  of  all 
oppression,  spite  of  all  the  magic  that  ever  its  first  inventor,  Zoroaster,  understood,  virtue  will  come 
oft'  victorious  ; and  triumphing  over  every  danger,  will  at  last  shine  out  in  its  proper  lustre,  like  the 
sun  to  enlighten  the  world.  Pardon  me,  fair  ladies,  if  through  ignorance  or  omission  of  the 
respects  due  to  your  qualities,  I have  not  behaved  myself  to  please  you  ; for,  to  the  best  of  my 
knowledge,  I never  committed  a wilful  wrong.  And  I crave  the  assistance  of  your  prayers, 
towards  my  enlargement  from  this  prison,  which  some  malicious  magician  has  confined  me  to;  and 
the  first  business  of  my  freedom  shall  be  a grateful  acknowledgment  for  the  many  and  obliging 
favours  conferred  upon  me  in  this  your  castle." 

Whilst  the  ladies  were  thus  entertained  by  Don  Quixote,  the  curate  and  barber  were  busy 
taking  their  leaves  of  their  company  ; and  after  mutual  compliments  and  embraces,  they  engaged  to 
acquaint  one  another  with  their  succeeding  fortunes.  Don  Ferdinand  entreated  the  curate  to  give 
him  a particular  relation  of  Don  Quixote’s  adventures,  assuring  him  that  nothing  would  be  a 


p 

Don  Quixote  was  not  so  much  amazed  at  his  enchantment 


as  at  the  manner  of  it.”—  p .333 


33^ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


greater  obligation,  and  at  the  same  time  engaged  to  inform  him  of  his  own  marriage  and  Lucinda’s 

o o 7 o o o 

return  to  her  parents ; with  an  account  of  Zoraida’s  baptism,  and  Don  Lewis’s  success  in 
his  amour. 

The  curate,  having  given  his  word  and  honour  to  satisfy  Don  Ferdinand,  and  the  last 
compliments  being  past,  was  just  going,  when  the  innkeeper  made  him  a proffer  of  a bundle  of 
papers  found  in  the  folds  of  a cloak-bag,  telling  him  withal  that  they  were  all  at  his  service  ; 
because,  since  the  owner  was  not  like  to  come  and  demand  them,  and  he  could  not  read,  they  could 
not  better  be  disposed  of.  The  curate  thanked  him  heartily,  and  opening  the  papers,  found  them 
entitled,  The  Story  of  Rinconete  and  Cortadillo.”  The  title  showing  it  to  be  a novel,  he  put  it  in 
his  pocket,  with  a resolution  to  peruse  it  the  very  first  opportunity  : then  mounting  with  his  friend 
the  barber,  and  both  putting  on  their  masks,  they  followed  the  procession,  which  marched  in  this 
order.  The  carter  led  the  van,  and  next  his  cart,  flanked  on  right  and  left  with  two  officers 
with  their  firelocks  ; then  followed  Sancho  on  his  ass,  leading  Rozinante  ; and  lastly  the  curate  and 
barber  on  their  mighty  mules  brought  up  the  rear  of  the  body,  all  with  a grave  and  solemn  air, 
marching  no  faster  than  the  heavy  oxen  allowed.  Don  Quixote  sat  leaning  against  the  back  of 
the  cage,  with  his  hands  tied  and  his  legs  at  length  ; but  so  silent  and  motionless,  that  he  seemed 
rather  a statue  than  a man. 

They  had  travelled  about  two  leagues  this  slow  and  leisurely  pace,  when  their  conductor 
stopping  in  a little  valley,  proposed  it  as  a fit  place  to  bait  in  ; but  he  was  prevailed  upon  to  defer 
halting  a little  longer,  being  informed  by  the  barber  of  a certain  valley  beyond  a little  hill  in  their 
view,  better  stored  with  grass,  and  more  convenient  for  their  purpose.  They  had  not  travelled 
much  farther  when  the  curate  spied  coming  a round  pace  after  them  six  or  seven  men  very  well 
accoutred  ; they  appeared,  by  their  brisk  riding,  to  be  mounted  on  churchmen’s  mules,  not  carried 
as  the  Don  was,  by  a team  of  sluggish  oxen  : they  endeavoured  before  the  heat  of  the  day  to 
reach  their  inn,  which  was  about  a league  farther.  In  short,  they  soon  came  up  with  our  slow 
itinerants  ; and  one  of  them,  who  was  a canon  of  Toledo,  and  master  of  those  that  came  along 
with  him,  marking  the  formal  procession  of  the  cart,  guards,  Sancho,  Rozinante,  the  curate,  and  the 
barber,  but  chiefly  the  in-caged  Don  Quixote,  could  not  forbear  asking  what  meant  their  strange 
method  of  securing  that  man  ; though  he  already  believed,  having  observed  the  guards,  that  he 
was  some  notorious  criminal  in  custody  of  the  holy  brotherhood.  One  of  the  fraternity  told  him 
that  he  could  not  tell  the  cause  of  that  knight’s  imprisonment,  but  that  he  might  answer  for  himself, 
because  he  best  could  tell. 

Don  Quixote  over-hearing  their  discourse,  “ Gentlemen,”  said  he,  “ if  you  are  conversant  and 
skilled  in  matters  of  knight-errantry,  I will  communicate  my  misfortunes  to  you  ; if  you  are  not,  I 
have  no  reason  to  give  myself  the  trouble.” 

“Truly,  friend,”  answered  the  canon,  “I  am  better  acquainted  with  books  of  chivalry  than 
with  Villalpando’s  divinity;  and  if  that  be  all  your  objection,  you  may  safely  impart  to  me  what 
you  please.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


'I  *7 
66/ 

“With  Heaven's  permission  be  it  so,”  said  Don  Quixote.  “You  must,  then,  understand,  sir 
knight,  that  I am  borne  away  in  this  cage  by  the  force  of  enchantments,  through  the  envious  spite 
and  malice  of  some  cursed  magicians  ; for  virtue  is  more  zealously  persecuted  by  ill  men  than  it  is 
beloved  by  the  good.  I am  by  profession  a knight-errant,  and  none  of  those,  I assure  you,  whose 
deeds  never  merited  a place  in  the  records  of  fame  ; but  one  who,  in  spite  of  Envy’s  self,  in  spite 
of  all  the  magi  of  Persia,  the  Brahmins  of  India,  or  the  gymnosophists  of  Ethiopia,  shall  secure 
to  his  name  a place  in  the  temple  of  immortality,  as  a pattern  and  model  to  following  ages,  that 
ensuing  knights-errant,  following  my  steps,  may  be  guided  to  the  top  and  highest  pitch  of  heroic 
honour.” 

“ The  noble  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  speaks  truth,”  said  the  curate,  coming  up  to  the 
company ; “ he  is  indeed  enchanted  in  this  cart,  not  through  his  own  demerits  or  offences, 
but  the  malicious  treachery  of  those  whom  virtue  displeases  and  valour  offends.  This  is, 
sir,  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  of  whom  you  have  undoubtedly  heard,  whose  mighty  deeds 
shall  stand  engraved  in  lasting  brass  and  time-surviving  marble,  till  envy  grows  tired  with  labouring 
to  deface  his  fame,  and  malice  to  conceal  him.” 

The  canon  hearing  the  prisoner  and  his  guard  talk  thus  in  the  same  style,  was  in  amaze,  and 
blessed  himself  for  wonder,  as  did  the  rest  of  the  company,  till  Sancho  Panza  coming  up  to  mend 
the  matter — 

“ Look  ye,  sirs,”  said  he,  “ I will  speak  the  truth,  take  it  well  or  take  it  ill.  My  master 
here  is  no  more  enchanted  than  my  mother  : he  is  in  his  sober  senses,  he  eats  and  drinks,  like 
other  folks,  and  as  he  used  to  do  ; and  yet  they  would  persuade  me  that  a man  who  can  do 
this  is  enchanted  forsooth  ! He  can  speak  too,  for  if  they  will  let  him  alone,  he  will  prattle 
you  more  than  thirty  attorneys.” 

Then  turning  towards  the  curate,  “Oh,  Master  Curate,  Master  Curate,”  continued  he,  “do 
you  think  I do  not  know  you,  and  that  I do  not  guess  what  all  these  new  enchantments  drive 
at  ? Yes,  I know  you  well  enough,  for  all  you  hide  your  face  ; and  understand  your  design,  for 
all  your  sly  tricks,  sir.  But  it  is  an  old  saying,  ‘ There  is  no  striving  against  the  stream  ; ’ and  the 
weakest  still  goes  to  the  wall.  Confusion  take  the  luck  on  it ; had  not  your  reverence  spoiled  our 
sport,  my  master  had  been  married  before  now  to  the  Princess  Micomicona,  and  I had  been  an 
earl  at  least ; nay,  that  I was  sure  of,  had  the  worst  come  to  the  worst ; but  the  old  proverb  is  true 
again,  ‘ Fortune  turns  round  like  a mill-wheel,  and  he  that  was  yesterday  at  the  top  lies  to-day  at  the 
bottom.’  I wonder,  Master  Curate,  you  that  are  a clergyman  should  not  have  more  conscience  ; 
consider,  sir,  that  I have  a wife  and  family,  who  expect  all  to  be  great  folks,  and  my  master 
here  is  to  do  a world  of  good  deeds  : and  do  not  you  think,  sir,  that  you  will  be  made  to  answer 
for  all  this  one  day  ? ” 

“Snuff  me  those  candles,”  said' the 'barber,  hearing  Sancho  talk  at  this  rate  : “what!  fool,  are 
you  brain-sick  of  your  master’s  disease,  too  ? If  you  be,  you  are  like  to  bear  him  company  in  his 
cage,  I assure  you,  friend.  What  enchanted  island  is  this  that  floats  in  your  skull  ?” 

43 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“I  may  be  Pope  of  Rome,  much  less  governor  of  an  island,”  said  Sancho ; “especially 
considering  my  master  may  gain  so  many  as  he  may  want  persons  to  bestow  them  on. 
Therefore,  pray,  Master  Barber,  mind  what  you  say  ; for  all  consists  not  in  shaving  of  beards,  and 
there  is  some  difference  between  a hawk  and  a hand-saw.  I say  so,  because  we  all  know  one 
another,  and  nobody  shall  put  a false  card  upon  me.  As  to  my  master’s  enchantment,  let  it 
stand  as  it  is.” 

The  barber  thought  silence  the  best  way  to  quiet  Sancho's  impertinence  ; and  the  curate, 
fearing  that  he  might  spoil  all,  entreated  the  canon  to  go  on  a little  before,  and  he  would  unfold 
the  mystery  of  the  encaged  knight,  which,  perhaps,  he  would  find  one  of  the  pleasantest  stories  he 
had  ever  heard.  The  canon  rode  forward  with  him,  and  his  men  followed,  while  the  curate  made 
them  a relation  of  Don  Quixote’s  life  and  quality,  his  madness  and  adventures,  with  the  original 
cause  of  his  distraction,  and  the  whole  progress  of  his  affairs,  till  his  being  shut  up  in  the  cage,  to 
get  him  home  in  order  to  have  him  cured.  They  all  wondered  at  this  strange  account ; and  then 
the  canon,  turning  to  the  curate — 

“ Believe  me,  Master  Curate,”  said  he,  “ I am  fully  convinced  that  these  they  call  books 
of  knight-errantry  are  very  prejudicial  to  the  public.  And  though  I have  been  led  away  with  an 
idle  and  false  pleasure,  to  read  the  beginnings  of  almost  as  many  of  them  as  have  been  printed,  I 
could  never  yet  persuade  myself  to  go  through  with  any  one  to  the  end  ; for  to  me  they  all  seem  to 
contain  one  and  the  same  thing  ; and  there  is  as  much  in  one  of  them  as  in  all  the  rest.  The 
whole  composition  and  style  resemble  that  of  the  Milesian  fables,  which  are  a sort  of  idle  stories, 
designed  only  for  diversion,  and  not  for  instruction.  It  is  not  so  with  those  fables  which  are  called 
apologues,  that  at  once  delight  and  instruct.  But  though  the  main  design  of  such  books  is  to 
please,  yet  I cannot  conceive  how  it  is  possible  they  should  perform  it,  being  filled  with  such  a 
multitude  of  unaccountable  extravagances.  For  the  pleasure  which  strikes  the  soul  must  be 
derived  from  the  beauty  and  congruity  it  sees  or  conceives  in  those  things  the  sight  or  imagination 
lay  before  it ; and  nothing  in  itself  deformed  or  incongruous  can  give  us  any  real  satisfaction.  Now 
what  beauty  can  there  be,  or  what  proportion  of  the  parts  to  the  whole,  or  of  the  whole  to  the 
several  parts,  in  a book  or  fable,  where  a stripling  of  sixteen  years  of  age  at  one  cut  of  a sword 
cleaves  a giant  as  tall  as  a steeple,  through  the  middle,  as  easily  as  if  he  were  made  of  paste- 
board ? Or  when  they  give  us  the  relation  of  a battle,  having  said  the  enemy’s  power  consisted  of 
a million  of  combatants,  yet  provided  the  hero  of  the  book  be  against  them,  we  must  of  necessity, 
though  never  so  much  against  our  inclination,  conceive  that  the  said  knight  obtained  the  victory 
only  by  his  own  valour,  and  the  strength  of  his  powerful  arm.  And  what  shall  we  say  of  the  great 
ease  and  facility  with  which  an  absolute  queen  or  empress  casts  herself  into  the  arms  of  an  errant 
and  unknown  knight  ? What  mortal,  not  altogether  barbarous  and  unpolished,  can  be  pleased  to 
read,  that  a great  tower,  full  of  armed  knights,  cuts  through  the  sea  like  a ship  before  the  wind,  and 
setting  out  in  the  evening  from  the  coast  of  Italy,  lands  by  break  of  day  in  Prester  John’s  country, 
or  in  some  other,  never  known  to  Ptolemy,  or  seen  by  Marcus  Paulus  ? If  it  should  be  answered 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


339 


chat  the  persons  who  compose  these  books  write  them  as  confessed  lies,  and  therefore  are  not 
obliged  to  observe  niceties  or  to  have  regard  to  truth,  I shall  make  this  reply,  that  falsehood  is  so 
much  the  more  commendable  by  how  much  more  it  resembles  truth,  and  is  the  more  pleasing  the 
more  it  is  doubtful  and  possible.  Fabulous  tales  ought  to  be  suited  to  the  reader’s  understanding, 
being  so  contrived,  that  all  impossibilities  ceasing,  all  great  accidents  appearing  feasible,  and  the 
mind  wholly  hanging  in  suspense,  they  may  at  once  surprise,  astonish,  please,  and  divert ; so  that 
pleasure  and  admiration  may  go  hand  in  hand.  This  cannot  be  performed  by  him  that  flies  from 
probability  and  imitation,  which  is  the  perfection  of  what  is  written.  I have  not  seen  any  book  of 
knight-errantry  that  composes  an  entire  body  of  a fable  with  all  its  parts  so  that  the  middle  is 
answerable  to  the  beginning,  and  the  end  to  the  beginning  and  middle ; but  on  the  contrary,  they 
form  them  of  so  many  limbs,  that  they  rather  seem  a chimera  or  monster  than  a well-proportioned 
figure.  Besides  all  this,  their  style  is  uncouth,  their  exploits  incredible,  their  love  immodest,  their 
civility  impertinent,  their  battles  tedious,  their  language  absurd,  their  voyages  preposterous  ; and 
in  short,  they  are  altogether  void  of  solid  ingenuity,  and  therefore  ought  to  be  banished  a Christian 
commonwealth  as  useless  and  prejudicial.” 

The  curate  was  very  attentive,  and  believed  him  a man  of  a sound  judgment,  and  much  in  the 
right  in  all  he  had  urged  ; and  therefore  told  him,  that  being  of  the  same  opinion,  and  an  enemy  to 
the  books  of  knight-errantry,  he  had  burnt  all  that  belonged  to  Don  Quixote,  which  were  a 
considerable  number.  Then  he  recounted  to  him  the  scrutiny  he  had  made  among  them,  what  he 
had  condemned  to  the  flames,  and  what  spared  ; at  which  the  canon  laughed  heartily,  and  said, 
that  notwithstanding  all  he  had  spoken  against  those  books,  yet  he  found  one  good  thing  in  them, 
which  was,  the  subject  they  furnished  a man  of  understanding  with  to  exercise  his  parts,  “ because 
they  allow  a large  scope  for  the  pen  to  dilate  upon  without  any  check,  describing  shipwrecks, 
storms,  skirmishes,  and  battles  ; representing  to  us  a brave  commander,  with  all  the  qualifications 
requisite  in  such  a one,  showing  his  prudence  in  disappointing  the  designs  of  the  enemy,  his 
eloquence  in  persuading  or  dissuading  his  soldiers,  his  judgment  in  council,  his  celerity  in  execution, 
and  his  valour  in  assailing  or  repulsing  an  assault ; laying  before  us  sometimes  a dismal  and 
melancholy  accident,  sometimes  a delightful  and  unexpected  adventure  ; in  one  place,  a beautiful, 
modest,  discreet,  and  reserved  lady  ; in  another,  a Christian-like,  brave,  and  courteous  gentleman  ; 
here  a boisterous,  inhuman,  boasting  ruffian  ; there  an  affable,  warlike,  and  wise  prince  ; clearly 
expressing  the  fidelity  and  loyalty  of  subjects,  the  generosity  and  bounty  of  sovereigns.  He  may  no 
less,  at  times,  make  known  his  skill  in  astrology,  cosmography,  music,  and  policy  ; and  if  he  pleases, 
he  cannot  want  an  opportunity  of  appearing  knowing  even  in  necromancy.  He  may  describe  the 
subtilty  of  Ulysses,  the  piety  of  Hineas,  the  valour  of  Achilles,  the  misfortunes  of  Hector,  the 
treachery  of  Sinon,  the  friendship  of  Euryalus,  the  liberality  of  Alexander,  the  valour  of  Caesar, 
the  clemency  and  sincerity  of  Trajan,  the  fidelity  of  Zopyrus,  the  prudence  of  Cato  ; and  in  fine, 
all  those  actions  that  make  up  a complete  hero  ; sometimes  attributing  them  all  to  one  person, 
and  at  other  times  dividing  them  among  many.  This  being  performed  in  a graceful  style,  and, 


The  curate  was  very  attentive,  and  believed  him  a man  of  a sound  judgment.  p.  339 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


341 


with  ingenious  invention,  approaching  as  much  as  possible  to  truth,  will  doubtless  compose  so 
beautiful  and  various  a work,  that,  when  finished,  its  excellency  and  perfection  must  attain  the  best 
end  of  writing,  which  is  at  once  to  delight  and  instruct,  as  I have  said  before  : for  the  loose  method 
practised  in  these  books  gives  the  author  liberty  to  play  the  epic,  the  lyric,  and  the  dramatic 
poet,  and  to  run  through  all  the  parts  of  poetry  and  rhetoric  ; for  epics  may  be  as  well  written  in 
prose  as  in  verse.” 


) 

CHAPTER  XLIV. 

'CONTAINING  A CONTINUATION  OF  TIIE  CANON’S  DISCOURSE  UPON  BOOKS  OF  KNIGHT-ERRANTRY,  AND 

OTHER  CURIOUS  MATTER. 

“ T OU  are  much  iu  the  right,  sir,”  replied  the  curate;  “and  therefore  those  who  have 
hitherto  published  books  of  that  kind  are  the  more  to  be  blamed,  for  having  had  no 
regard  to  good  sense,  art,  or  rules,  by  the  observation  of  which  they  might  have  made  themselves 
•as  famous  in  prose  as  the  two  princes  of  Greek  and  Latin  poetry  are  in  verse.” 

“ I must  confess,”  said  the  canon,  “ I was  once  tempted  to  write  a book  of  knight-errantry 
myself,  observing  all  those  rules ; and,  to  speak  the  truth,  I wrote  above  one  hundred  pages,  which, 
for  the  better  trial,  whether  they  answered  my  expectation,  I communicated  to  some  learned  and 
judicious  men  fond  of  those  subjects,  as  well  as  to  some  of  those  ignorant  persons  who  are  only 
-delighted  with  extravagances  ; and  they  all  gave  me  a satisfactory  approbation.  And  yet  I made  no 
farther  progress,  as  well  in  regard  I look  upon  it  as  a thing  no  way  agreeable  with  my  profession, 
as  because  I am  sensible  the  illiterate  are  much  more  numerous  than  the  learned  ; and  though  it 
were  of  more  weight  to  be  commended  by  the  small  number  of  the  wise,  than  scorned  by  the 
ignorant  multitude,  yet  would  I not  expose  myself  to  the  confused  judgment  of  the  giddy  vulgar, 
who  principally  are  those  who  read  such  books.  But  the  greatest  motive  I had  to  lay  aside,  and 
think  no  more  of  finishing  it,  was  the  argument  I formed  to  myself  deduced  from  the  plays  now 
usually  acted  ; ‘ for,’  thought  I,  ‘ if  plays  now  in  use,  as  well  those  which  are  altogether  of  the 
poet’s  invention  as  those  that  are  grounded  upon  history,  be  all  of  them,  or,  however,  the  greatest 
part,  made  up  of  most  absurd  extravagances  and  incoherencies  ; things  that  have  neither  head  nor 
foot,  side  nor  bottom  ; and  yet  the  multitude  sees  them  with  satisfaction,  esteems  and  approves 
them,  though  they  are  so  far  from  being  good  ; and  if  the  poets  who  write,  and  the  players  who 
act  them,  say  they  must  be  so  contrived  and  no  otherwise,  because  they  please  the  generality  of 
the  audience  ; and  if  those  which  are  regular  and  according  to  art,  serve  only  to  please  half  a score 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA 


343 


of  judicious  persons  who  understand  them,  whilst  the  rest  of  the  company  cannot  reach  the 
contrivance,  nor  know  anything  of  the  matter  ; then  may  I conclude  the  same  will  be  the  success 
of  this  book,  so  that  when  I have  racked  my  brains  to  observe  the  rules,  I shall  reap  no  other 
advantage  than  to  be  laughed  at  for  my  pains. 

“ I have  sometimes  endeavoured  to  convince  the  actors  that  they  are  deceived  in  their 
opinion,  and  that  they  will  draw  more  company  and  get  more  credit  by  regular  plays,  than 
by  those  preposterous  representations  now  in  use  ; but  they  are  so  positive  in  their  humour,  that 
no  strength  of  reason,  nor  even  demonstration,  can  beat  this  opinion  into  their  heads.  I remember 
I once  was  talking  to  one  of  those  obstinate  fellows.  ‘Do  you  not  remember,’  said  I,  ‘that 
within  these  few  years,  three  tragedies  were  acted  in  Spain,  written  by  a famous  poet  of  ours, 
which  were  so  excellent,  that  they  surprised,  delighted,  and  raised  the  admiration  of  all  that 
saw  them,  as  well  the  ignorant  and  ordinary  people  as  the  judicious  and  men  of  quality  ; and 
the  actors  got  more  by  those  three  than  by  thirty  of  the  best  that  have  been  written  since  ? ’ 
‘ Doubtless,  sir,’  said  the  actor,  ‘ you  mean  the  tragedies  of  Isabella,  Phillis,  and  Alexandria.” 
‘ The  very  same,’  I replied,  ‘ and  do  you  judge  whether  they  observed  the  rules  of  the  drama, 
and  whether  by  doing  so  they  lost  anything  of  their  esteem,  or  failed  of  pleasing  all  sorts  of  people. 
So  that  the  fault  lies  not  in  the  audience  desiring  absurdities,  but  in  those  who  know  not 
how  to  give  them  anything  else.  Nor  was  there  anything  preposterous  in  several  other  plays ; 
as  for  example,  “Ingratitude  Revenged,’’  “ Numancia,”  and  “The  Amorous  Merchant;”  nor 
in  some  others,  composed  by  judicious  poets  to  their  honour  and  credit,  and  to  the  advantage 
of  those  that  acted  them.’  Much  more  I added,  which  did  indeed  somewhat  confound 
him,  but  no  way  satisfied  or  convinced  him,  so  as  to  make  him  change  his  erroneous 
opinion.” 

“ You  have  hit  upon  a subject,  sir,”  said  the  curate,  “ which  has  stirred  up  in  me  an  old 
aversion  I have  for  the  plays  now  in  use,  which  is  not  inferior  to  that  I bear  to  books  of  knight- 
errantry.  For  whereas  plays,  according  to  the  opinion  of  Cicero,  ought  to  be  mirrors  of  human 
life,  patterns  of  good  manners,  and  the  very  representatives  of  truth,  those  now  acted  are  mirrors 
of  absurdities,  patterns  of  follies,  and  images  of  ribaldry.  For  instance,  what  can  be  more  absurd 
than  for  the  same  person  to  be  brought  on  the  stage  a child  in  swaddling-bands,  in  the  first  scene  of 
the  first  act,  and  to  appear  in  the  second  grown  a man  ? What  can  be  more  ridiculous  than  to 
represent  to  us  a fighting  old  fellow,  a cowardly  youth,  a rhetorical  footman,  a politic  page,  a 
churlish  king,  and  an  unpolished  princess  ? What  shall  I say  of  their  regard  to  the  time  in  which 
those  actions  they  represent  either  might  or  ought  to  have  happened  ? for  I have  seen  a play  in 
which  the  first  act  began  in  Europe,  the  second  was  in  Asia,  and  the  third  ended  in  Africa. 
Probably,  if  there  had  been  another  act,  they  would  have  carried  it  into  America  ; and  thus  it 
would  have  been  acted  in  the  four  parts  of  the  world.  But  if  imitation  is  to  be  a principal  part  of 
the  drama,  how  can  any  tolerable  judgment  be  pleased,  when,  representing  an  action  that  happened 
in  the  time  of  King  Pepin  or  Charlemagne,  they  shall  attribute  it  to  the  Emperor  Heraclius,  and 


344 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


bring  him  in  carrying  the  cross  into  Jerusalem,  and  recovering  the  Holy  Sepulchre,  like  Godfrey 
of  Bouillon,  there  being  a vast  distance  of  time  betwixt  these  actions  ? Thus  they  will  clap  together 
pieces  of  true  history  in  a play  of  their  own  framing,  and  grounded  upon  fiction,  mixing  in  it 
relations  of  things  that  have  happened  to  different  people,  and  in  several  ages.  This  they  do 
without  any  contrivance  that  might  make  it  appear  probable,  and  with  such  visible  mistakes  as  are 
altogether  inexcusable  ; but  the  worst  of  it  is,  that  there  are  idiots  who  look  upon  this  as  perfection, 
and  think  everything  else  to  be  mere  pedantry.  But  if  we  look  into  the  pious  plays,  what  a 
multitude  of  false  miracles  shall  we  find  in  them  ! How  many  errors  and  contradictions,  how  often 
the  miracles  wrought  by  one  saint  attributed  to  another!  Nay,  even  in  the  profane  plays,  they 
presume  to  work  miracles  upon  the  imagination,  and  suppose  that  such  a supernatural  work,  or 
a machine,  as  they  call  it,  will  be  ornamental,  and  draw  the  common  sort  to  see  the  play.  These 
things  are  a reflection  upon  truth  itself,  a lessening  and  depreciating  of  history,  and  a reproach  to 
all  Spanish  wits  ; because  strangers,  who  are  very  exact  in  observing  the  rules  of  the  drama,  look 
upon  us  as  an  ignorant  people,  when  they  see  the  absurdities  and  extravagances  of  our  plays. 

“ Nor  would  it  be  any  excuse  to  allege  that  the  principal  design  of  all  good  governments,  in 
permitting  plays  to  be  publicly  acted,  is  to  amuse  the  commonalty  with  some  lawful  recreation, 
and  so  to  divert  those  ill  humours  which  idleness  is  apt  to  breed  : and  that  since  this  end  is 
attained  by  any  sort  of  plays,  whether  good  or  bad,  it  is  needless  to  prescribe  laws  to  them,  or 
oblige  the  poets  or  actors  to  compose  and  represent  such  as  are  strictly  conformable  to  the  rules. 
To  this  I would  answer,  that  this  end  would  be  infinitely  better  attained  by  good  plays  than  by  bad 
ones.  He  who  sees  a play  that  is  regular  and  answerable  to  the  rules  of  poetry,  is  pleased  with 
the  comic  part,  informed  by  the  serious,  surprised  at  the  variety  of  accidents,  improved  by  the 
language,  warned  by  the  frauds,  instructed  by  examples,  incensed  against  vice,  and  enamoured  with 
virtue  ; for  a good  play  must  cause  all  these  emotions  in  the  soul  of  him  that  sees  it,  though  he 
were  never  so  insensible  and  unpolished.  And  it  is  absolutely  impossible  that  a play  which  has 
these  qualifications  should  not  infinitely  divert,  satisfy,  and  please,  beyond  another  that  wants  them, 
as  most  of  them  do  which  are  now  usually  acted.  Neither  are  the  poets  who  write  them  in  fault, 
for  some  of  them  are  very  sensible  of  their  errors,  and  extremely  capable  of  performing  their  duty  ; 
but  plays  being  now  altogether  becoming  venal  and  a sort  of  merchandise,  they  say,  and  with 
reason,  that  the  actors  would  not  purchase  them,  unless  they  were  of  that  stamp  ; and  therefore  the 
poet  endeavours  to  suit  the  humour  of  the  actors,  who  are  to  pay  him  for  his  labour.  For  proof  of 
this,  let  any  man  observe  that  infinite  number  of  plays  composed  by  an  exuberant  Spanish  wit,  so 
full  of  gaiety  and  humour,  in  such  elegant  verse  and  choice  language,  so  sententious,  and  to  con- 
clude, in  such  a majestic  style,  that  his  fame  is  spread  through  the  universe  ; yet  because  he  suited 
himself  to  the  fancy  of  the  actors,  many  of  his  pieces  have  fallen  short  of  their  due  perfection, 
though  some  have  readied  it.  Others  write  plays  so  inconsiderately,  that  after  they  have  appeared 
on  the  stage,  the  actors  have  been  forced  to  fly  and  abscond,  for  fear  of  being  punished,  as  it  has 
often  happened,  for  having  affronted  kings,  and  dishonoured  whole  families.  These  and  many 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


345 


other  ill  consequences,  which  I omit,  would  cease,  by  appointing  an  intelligent  and  judicious  person 
at  court  to  examine  all  plays  before  they  were  acted  ; that  is,  not  only  those  which  are  represented 
at  court,  but  throughout  all  Spam  ; so  that,  without  his  licence,  no  magistrate  should  suffer  any  play 
to  appear  in  public.  Thus  players  would  be  careful  to  send  their  plays  to  court,  and  might  then  act 
them  with  safety,  and  those  who  write  would  be  more  circumspect,  as  standing  in  awe  of  an 
examiner  that  could  judge  of  their  works.  By  these  means  we  should  be  furnished  with  good 
plays,  and  the  end  they  are  designed  for  would  be  attained,  the  people  diverted,  the  Spanish 
wit  esteemed,  the  actors  safe,  and  the  government  spared  the  trouble  of  punishing  them.  And 
if  the  same  person,  or  another,  were  entrusted  to  examine  all  the  new  books  of  knight-errantry, 
there  is  no  doubt  but  some  might  be  published  with  all  that  perfection  you,  sir,  have  mentioned, 
to  the  increase  of  eloquence  in  our  language,  to  the  utter  extirpation  of  the  old  books,  which  would 
be  borne  down  by  the  new  ; and  for  the  innocent  pastime,  not  only  of  idle  persons,  but  even  of 
those  who  have  most  employment ; for  the  bow  cannot  always  stand  bent,  nor  can  human  frailty 
subsist  without  some  lawful  recreation.” 


44 


CHAPTER  XLV. 

A RELATION  OF  THE  WISE  CONFERENCE  BETWEEN  SANCHO  AND  HIS  MASTER. 

THE  canon  and  curate  were  come  to  this  period,  when  the  barber  overtaking  them,  told  the 
latter  that  this  was  the  place  he  had  pitched  on  for  baiting  during  the  heat  of  the  day.  The 
canon,  induced  by  the  pleasantness  of  the  valley,  and  the  satisfaction  he  found  in  the  curate’s  con- 
versation, as  well  as  to  be  farther  informed  of  Don  Quixote,  bore  them  company,  giving  order  to 
some  of  his  men  to  ride  to  the  next  inn,  and  if  his  sumpter-mule  were  arrived,  to  send  him  down 
provisions  to  that  valley,  where  the  coolness  of  the  shade,  and  the  beauty  of  the  prospect,  gave  him 
such  a fair  invitation  to  dine ; and  that  they  should  make  much  of  themselves  and  their  mules  with 
what  the  inn  could  afford. 

In  the  meantime,  Sancho  having  disengaged  himself  from  the  curate  and  barber,  and  finding 
an  opportunity  to  speak  to  his  master  alone,  he  brushed  up  to  the  cage  where  the  knight  sat. 
“ That  I may  clear  my  conscience,  sir,”  said  he,  “ it  is  fitting  that  I tell  you  the  plain  truth  of  your 
enchantment  here.  Who,  would  you  think  now,  are  these  two  fellows  that  ride  with  their  faces 
covered  ? Even  the  parson  of  our  parish  and  the  barber ; none  else,  I will  assure  you,  sir.  And 
they  are  in  a plot  against  you,  out  of  mere  spite  because  your  deeds  will  be  more  famous  than 
theirs  : this  being  supposed,  it  follows  that  you  are  not  enchanted,  but  only  cozened  and  abused.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


347 


“ As  to  thy  assertion,”  said  the  knight,  “ that  those  who  guard  us  are  my  old  companions,  the 
curate  and  barber,  it  is  illusion  all.  The  power  of  magic  indeed,  as  it  has  an  art  to  clothe  anything  in 
any  shape,  may  have  dressed  these  demons  in  their  appearances  to  infatuate  thy  sense,  and  draw  thee 
into  such  a labyrinth  of  confusion,  that  even  Theseus’s  clue  could  not  extricate  thee  out  of  it ; 
and  this  with  a design,  perhaps,  to  plunge  me  deeper  into  doubts,  and  make  me  endanger  my 
understanding,  in  searching  into  the  strange  contrivance  of  my  enchantment,  which  in  every 
circumstance  is  so  different  from  all  I ever  read.  Therefore  rest  satisfied  that  these  are  no  more 
what  thou  imaginest  than  I am  a Turk.” 

“ Come,  sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ you  cannot  deny  that  when  anybody  is  out  of  sorts,  so  as  not  to 
eat,  or  drink,  or  sleep,  then  we  say  commonly  they  are  bewitched  or  so  ; from  whence  may  be 
gathered,  that  those  who  can  eat  their  meat,  drink  their  drink,  and  speak  when  they  are  spoken  to, 
are  not  bewitched  or  enchanted.” 

“ Your  conclusion  is  good,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “as  to  one  sort  of  enchantment;  but,  as 
I said  to  thee,  there  is  variety  of  enchantments,  and  the  changes  in  them,  through  the  alterations  of 
times  and  customs,  branch  them  into  so  many  parts,  that  there  is  no  arguing  from  what  has  been 
to  what  may  be  now.  For  my  part  I am  verily  persuaded  of  my  enchantment,  and  this  suppresses 
any  uneasiness  in  my  conscience,  which  might  arise  upon  any  suggestions  to  the  contrary.  To  see 
myself  thus  idly  and  dishonourably  borne  about  in  a cage,  and  withheld,  like  a lazy,  idle  coward, 
from  the  great  offices  of  my  function  when  at  this  hour,  perhaps,  hundreds  of  wretches  may  want 
my  assistance,  would  be  insupportable,  if  I were  not  enchanted.” 

“ Yet,  for  all  that,  your  worship  should  try  to  get  your  heels  at  liberty,”  said  Sancho.  “ Come, 
sir,  let  me  alone,  I will  set  you  free,  I warrant  you  ; and  then  get  you  on  your  trusty  Rozinante’s 
back,  and  a fig  for  them  all.  The  poor  thing  here  jogs  on  as  drooping  and  heartless  as  if  he  were 
enchanted  too.  Take  my  advice  for  once  now,  and  if  things  do  not  go  as  your  heart  could  wish, 
you  have  time  enough  to  creep  into  your  cage  again ; and  on  the  word  of  a loyal  squire  I will  go 
in  with  you,  and  be  content  to  be  enchanted  as  long  as  you  please.” 

“ I commit  the  care  of  my  freedom  to  thy  management,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “lay  hold  on  the 
opportunity,  friend  Sancho,  and  thou  shalt  find  me  ready  to  be  governed  in  all  particulars, 
though  I am  still  afraid  thou  wilt  find  thy  cunning  strangely  over-reached  in  thy  pretended 
discovery.” 

The  knight  and  squire  had  laid  their  plot  when  they  reached  the  place  that  the  canon,  curate, 
and  barber  had  pitched  upon  to  alight  in.  The  cage  was  taken  down,  and  the  oxen  unyoked  to 
graze  ; when  Sancho,  addressing  the  curate,  “ Pray,”  said  he,  “ will  you  do  so  much  as  let  my  lord 
and  master  come  out  a little  to  take  the  air  ? ” 

The  curate  understanding  him,  answered  that  he  would  comply,  but  that  he  feared  Doc 
Quixote,  finding  himself  once  at  liberty,  would  give  them  the  slip. 

“ I will  be  bail  for  him,”  said  Sancho,  “ body  for  body,  sir.” 

■“And  I,”  said  the  canon,  “upon  his  bare  parole  of  honour.” 


34« 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


That  you  shall  have,”  said  the  knight ; “ besides,  you  need  no  security  beyond  the  power  of 
art,  for  enchanted  bodies  have  no  power  to  dispose  of  themselves,  nor  to  move  from  one  place  to 
another,  without  permission  of  the  necromancer,  in  whose  charge  they  are  : the  magical  charms 
might  rivet  them  for  three  whole  centuries  to  one  place,  and  fetch  them  back  swift  as  the  wind, 
should  the  enchanted  have  fled  to  some  other  region.”  Before  long  they  gave  him  his  liberty  ; and 
the  first  use  he  made  of  it  was  to  stretch  his  benumbed  limbs  three  or  four  times  ; then  marching 
up  to  Rozinante,  and  slapping  him  twice  or  thrice  on  the  quarters,  “ I trust  in  Heaven,  thou  flower 
and  glory  of  horse-flesh,”  said  he,  “ that  we  shall  soon  be  restored  to  our  former  circumstances  ; I 
mounted  on  thy  back,  and  thou  between  my  legs,  while  I exercise  the  function  for  which  Heaven 
has  bestowed  me  on  the  world.” 

The  canon  gazed  on  him,  admiring  his  unparalleled  sort  of  madness,  the  rather  because  in 
all  his  words  and  answers  he  displayed  an  excellent  judgment ; and,  as  we  have  already  ob- 
served, he  only  raved  when  the  discourse  fell  upon  knight-errantry  : which  moving  the  canon  to 
compassion,  when  they  had  all  seated  themselves  on  the  grass,  expecting  the  coming  up  of  his 
sumpter-mule,  “ Is  it  possible,  sir,”  said  he,  addressing  himself  to  Don  Quixote,  “ that  the 
unhappy  reading  of  books  of  knight-errantry  should  have  such  an  influence  over  you  as  to 
destroy  your  reason,  making  you  believe  you  are  now  enchanted,  and  many  other  such 
extravagances,  as  remote  from  truth  as  truth  itself  is  from  falsehood  ? How  is  it  possible  that 
human  sense  should  conceive  there  ever  were  in  the  world  such  multitudes  of  famous  knights- 
errant,  so  many  Emperors  of  Trebizond,  so  many  Amadises,  Felixmartes  of  Hircania,  palfreys, 
rambling  damsels,  serpents,  monsters,  giants,  unheard-of  adventures,  so  many  sorts  of  enchantments, 
so  many  battles,  terrible  encounters,  pompous  habits  and  tournaments,  amorous  princesses,  earls, 
squires,  and  jesting  dwarfs,  so  many  love-letters  and  gallantries,  so  many  Amazonian  ladies,  and, 
in  short,  such  an  incredible  number  of  extravagant  passages,  as  are  contained  in  books  of  knight- 
errantry  ? As  for  my  own  particular,  I confess,  that  while  I read  them,  and  do  not  reflect  that  they 
are  nothing  but  falsehood  and  folly,  they  give  me  some  satisfaction  ; but  I no  sooner  remember 
what  they  are  but  I cast  the  best  of  them  from  fne,  and  would  deliver  them  up  to  the  flames  if  I 
had  a fire  near  me,  as  well  deserving  that  fate,  because,  like  impostors,  they  act  contrary  to  the 
common  course  of  nature.  They  are  like  broachers  of  new  sects,  and  a new  manner  of  living,  that 
seduce  the  ignorant  vulgar  to  give  credit  to  all  their  absurdities  : nay,  they  presume  to  disturb  the 
brains  of  ingenious  and  well-bred  gentlemen,  as  appears  by  the  effect  they  have  wrought  on  your 
judgment,  having  reduced  you  to  such  a condition,  that  it  is  necessary  to  shut  you  up  in  a cage,  and 
carry  you  in  a cart  drawn  by  oxen,  like  some  lion  or  tiger  that  is  carried  about  from  town  to  town 
to  be  shown.  Have  pity  on  yourself,  good  Don  Quixote,  retrieve  your  lost  judgment,  and  make 
use  of  those  abilities  Heaven  has  blest  you  with,  applying  your  excellent  talent  to  some  other  study, 
which  may  be  safer  for  your  conscience,  and  more  for  your  honour  : but  if,  led  away  by  your 
natural  inclination,  you  will  read  books  of  heroism  and  great  exploits,  read  in  the  Holy  Scripture 
the  Book  of  Judges,  where  you  will  find  wonderful  truths  and  glorious  actions  not  to  be  questioned. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


349 


Lusitania  had  a Viriatus,  Rome  a Caesar,  Carthage  an  Hannibal,  Greece  an  Alexander,  Castile  a 
Count  Fernan  Gonzalez,  Valencia  a Cid,  Andalusia  a Gonzalo  Fernandes,  Estremadura  a Diego 
Garcia  de  Peredez,  Xerez  a Gracia  Perez  de  Vargas,  Toledo  a Garcilasso,  and  Seville  a Don 
Manuel  de  Leon,  the  reading  of  whose  brave  actions  diverts,  instructs,  pleases,  and  surprises  the 
most  judicious  readers.  This  will  be  a study  worthy  your  talent,  and  by  which  you  will  become 
well  read  in  history,  in  love  with  virtue,  knowing  in  goodness,  improved  in  manners,  brave  without 
rashness,  and  cautious  without  cowardice  ; all  which  will  redound  to  the  glory  of  God,  your  own 
advancement,  and  the  honour  of  the  province  of  La  Mancha,  whence  I understand  you  derive 
your  original.” 

Don  Quixote  listened  with  great  attention  to  the  canon’s  discourse,  and  perceiving  he  had 
done,  after  he  had  fixed  his  eyes  on  him  for  a considerable  space,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ all  your 
discourse,  I find,  tends  to  signify  to  me  there  never  were  any  knights-errant  ; that  all  the  books 
of  knight-errantry  are  false,  fabulous,  useless,  and  prejudicial  to  the  public;  that  I have  done  ill 
in  reading,  erred  in  believing,  and  been  much  to  blame  in  imitating  them,  by  taking  upon  me  the 
most  painful  profession  of  chivalry.  And  you  deny  that  ever  there  were  any  Amadises  of  Gaul 
or  Greece,  or  any  of  those  knights  mentioned  in  those  books  ? ” 

“ Even  as  you  have  said,  sir,”  quoth  the  canon. 

“You  also  were  pleased  to  add,”  continued  Don  Quixote,  “that  those  books  had  been 
very  hurtful  to  me,  having  deprived  me  of  my  reason,  and  reduced  me  to  be  carried  in  a cage ; 
that  therefore  it  would  be  for  my  advantage  to  take  up  in  time,  and  apply  myself  to  the  reading 
of  other  books,  where  I might  find  more  truth,  more  pleasure,  and  better  instruction.” 

“You  are  in  the  right,”  said  the  canon. 

“ Then  I am  satisfied,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ you  yourself  are  the  man  that  raves  and 
is  enchanted,  since  you  have  thus  boldly  blasphemed  against  a truth  so  universally  received, 
that  whosoever  presumes  to  contradict  it,  as  you  have  done,  deserves  the  punishment  you 
would  inflict  on  those  books,  which  in  reading  offend  and  tire  you.  For  it  were  as  easy  to 
persuade  the  world  that  the  sun  does  not  enlighten,  the  frost  cool,  and  the  earth  bear  us,  as 
that  there  never  was  an  Amadis,  or  any  of  the  other  adventurous  knights,  whose  actions  are 
the  subjects  of  so  many  histories.  What  mortal  can  persuade  another  that  there  is  no  truth 
in  what  is  recorded  of  the  Infanta  Floripes,  and  Guy  of  Burgundy  ; as  also  of  Fierabras  at  the 
bridge  of  Mantible  in  the  reign  of  Charlemagne  ? which  passages,  I dare  swear,  are  as  true  as 

that  now  it  is  day.  But  if  this  be  false,  you  may  as  well  say  there  was  no  Hector  nor 

Achilles;  nor  a Trojan  war,  nor  twelve  peers  of  France,  nor  a King  Arthur  of  Britain,  who  is 

now  converted  into  a crow,  and  hourly  expected  in  his  kingdom.  Some  also  may  presume  to 

say  that  the  history  of  Guerino  Meschino,  and  the  attempt  of  St.  Grial,  are  both  false  ; that 
the  amours  of  Sir  Tristan  and  Queen  Iseult  are  apocryphal,  as  well  as  those  of  Guinever  and 
Sir  Lancelot  of  the  Lake  ; whereas  there  are  people  living  who  can  almost  remember  they 
have  seen  the  old  Lady  Quintanona,  who  had  the  best  hand  at  filling  a glass  of  wine  of  any 


350 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


woman  in  all  Britain.  This  I am  so  well  assured  of,  that  I can  remember  my  grandmother,  by 
my  father’s  side,  whenever  she  saw  an  old  waiting-woman  with  her  reverend  veil,  used  to  say 
to  me,  ‘ Look  yonder,  grandson,  there  is  a woman  like  the  old  Lady  Quintanona ; ’ whence 
I infer  she  knew  her,  or  at  least  had  seen  her  picture.  Now,  who  can  deny  the  veracity  of  the 
history  of  Peter,  and  the  lovely  Malagona,  when  to  this  day  the  pin,  with  which  the  brave 
Peter  turned  his  wooden  horse  that  carried  him  through  the  air,  is  to  be  seen  in  the  kino-’s 
armoury  ? which  pin  is  somewhat  bigger  than  the  pole  of  a coach,  by  the  same  token  it  stands 
just  by  Babieca’s  saddle.  At  Roncesvalles  they  keep  Orlando’s  horn,  which  is  as  big  as  a great 
beam  : whence  it  follows  that  there  were  twelve  peers,  that  there  were  such  men  as  Peter  and 
the  famous  Cid,  besides  many  other  adventurous  knights,  whose  names  are  in  the  mouths  of  all 
people.  You  may  as  well  tell  me  that  the  brave  Portuguese,  John  de  Merlo,  was  no  knight- 
errant  ; that  he  did  not  go  into  Burgundy,  where,  in  the  city  of  Ras,  he  fought  the  famous  Moses 
Pierre,  Lord  of  Charney;  and  in  the  city  of  Basil,  Moses  Henry  de  Ramestan,  coming  off  in  both 
victorious,  and  loaded  with  honour.  You  may  deny  the  adventures  and  combats  of  the  two 
heroic  Spaniards,  Pedro  Barba  and  Gutierre  Ouixada,  from  whose  male  line  I am  lineally 
descended,  who  in  Burgundy  overcame  the  sons  of  the  Earl  of  St.  Paul.  You  may  tell  me  that 
Don  Ferdinand  de  Guevara  never  went  into  Germany  to  seek  adventures,  where  he  fought  Sir 
George,  a knight  of  the  Duke  of  Austria’s  court.  You  may  say  the  tilting  of  Suero  de  Quinnones 
del  Passo,  and  the  exploits  of  Moses  Lewis  de  Falces,  against  Don  Gonzalo  de  Guzman,  a 
Castilian  knight,  are  mere  fables  ; and  so  of  many  other  brave  actions  performed  by  Christian 
knights,  as  well  Spaniards  as  foreigners  ; which  are  so  authentic  and  true,  that  I say  it  over 
again,  he  who  denies  them  has  neither  sense  nor  reason.” 

The  canon  was  much  astonished  at  the  medley  Don  Quixote  made  of  truths  and  fables, 
and  no  less  to  see  how  well  read  he  was  in  all  things  relating  to  the  achievements  of  knights- 
errant.  “ I cannot  deny,  sir,”  answered  he,  “ but  that  there  is  some  truth  in  what  you  have 
said,  especially  in  what  relates  to  the  Spanish  knights-errant ; and  I will  grant  there  were  twelve 
peers  of  France,  yet  I will  not  believe  they  performed  all  those  actions  Archbishop  Turpin 
ascribes  to  them  : I rather  imagine  they  were  brave  gentlemen  made  choice  of  by  the  kings  of 
France,  and  called  peers,  as  being  all  equal  in  valour  and  quality ; or  if  they  were  not,  at  least  they 
ought  to  have  been  so;  and  these  composed  a sort  of  military  order,  like  those  of  St.  Jago  or 
Calatrava  among  us,  into  which  all  that  are  admitted  are  supposed,  or  ought  to  be,  gentlemen  of 
birth  and  known  valour.  And  as  now  we  say  a knight  of  St.  John  or  of  Alcantara,  so  in  those 
times  they  said  a knight  one  of  the  twelve  peers,  because  there  were  but  twelve  of  this  military 
order.  Nor  is  it  to  be  doubted  but  that  there  were  such  men  as  Barnardo  del  Carpio  and  the  Cid, 
yet  we  have  reason  to  question  whether  ever  they  performed  those  great  exploits  that  are  ascribed 
to  them.  As  to  the  pin,  Count  Peter’s  pin  which  you  spoke  of,  and  which  you  say  stands  by 
Babieca’s  saddle,  I own  my  ignorance,  and  confess  I was  so  short-sighted,  that  though  I saw  the 
saddle,  yet  I did  not  perceive  the  pin,  which  is  somewhat  strange,  if  it  be  so  large  as  you  describe  it.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


351 


“ It  is  there  without  doubt,”  replied  Don  Quixote ; “ by  the  same  token,  they  say  it  is  kept  in 
a leathern  case  to  keep  it  from  rusting.” 

“ That  may  very  well  be,”  said  the  canon ; “ but  upon  the  word  of  a priest,  I do  not 
remember  I ever  saw  it  : yet  grant  it  were  there,  that  does  not  enforce  the  belief  of  so  many 
Amadises,  nor  of  such  a multitude  of  knights-errant  as  the  world  talks  of ; nor  is  there  any  reason 
so  worthy  a person,  so  judicious,  and  so  well  qualified  as  you  are,  should  imagine  there  is  any 
truth  in  the  wild  extravagances  contained  in  all  the  fabulous,  nonsensical  books  of  knight- 
errantry.” 


M 

iimhu'is 

1111  1 * w*>  JHif, 

mnji 

Ij.4 

mm  III 

m 

l/rim 

IMB  1 

KM 

g ^ 

y m l :1  'j  1 

H(|| 

A vast  lake  of  boiling  pitch,  in  which  an  infinite  multitude  of  fierce  and  terrible  creatures  are  traversing  backwards  and  forwards.”—^.  353. 


THE  NOTABLE  DISPUTE  BETWEEN  THE  CANON  AND  DON  QUIXOTE  ; WITH  OTHER  MATTERS. 


VERY  well,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “then  all  those  books  must  be  fabulous,  though  licensed 
by  kings,  approved  by  the  examiners,  read  with  general  satisfaction,  and  applauded  by 
the  better  sort  and  the  meaner,  rich  and  poor,  learned  and  unlearned,  gentry  and  commonalty; 
and,  in  short,  by  all  sorts  of  persons  of  what  state  and  condition  soever,  and  though  they  carry 
such  an  appearance  of  truth,  setting  down  the  father,  mother,  country,  kindred,  age,  place,  and 
actions  to  a tittle,  and  day  by  day,  of  the  knight  and  knights  of  whom  they  treat  ? For  shame, 
sir,”  continued  he ; “ forbear  uttering  such  blasphemies ; and  believe  me,  in  this  I advise  you  to 
behave  yourself  as  becomes  a man  of  sense,  or  else  read  them  and  see  what  satisfaction  you 
will  receive.  As,  for  instance,  pray  tell  me,  can  there  be  anything  more  delightful  than  to  read 
a lively  description,  which,  as  it  were,  brings  before  your  eyes  the  following  adventure  ? A vast 
lake  of  boiling  pitch,  in  which  an  infinite  multitude  of  serpents,  snakes,  crocodiles,  and  other 
sorts  of  fierce  and  terrible  creatures,  are  swimming  and  traversing  backwards  and  forwards, 
appears  to  a knight-errant’s  sight.  Then  from  the  midst  of  the  lake  a most  doleful  voice  is  heard 
to  say  these  words  : ‘ Oh,  knight,  whoever  thou  art,  who  gazest  on  this  dreadful  lake,  if  thou 
wilt  purchase  the  bliss  concealed  under  these  dismal  waters,  make  known  thy  valour,  by  casting 

46 


j*  -sy  ■ f ,e  v ' » y# 

' ' - v i^mSm  l'  \ 1 to , 

y*  ,'/C 

- z*  X 

>v’  1 

•j  mKm  ^ 

* 1 ’ 

i A't|'  V n(0<r  -~"  " \ 

\ \|*JXiii 

= . 5 . % M-  II 

n 

Iffl—  If©  MM—g 

IpyBI  ms?' 

Hi  iii i lill  iwriiHMr  • 
III*  " 7 

' • III  !'  i,!ji 

The  sky  appears  to  him  more  transparent,  and  the  sun  seems  to  shine  with  redoubled  brightness.”—/.  355. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


355 


thyself  into  the  midst  of  these  black,  burning  surges ; for  unless  thou  dost  so,  thou  art  not  worthy 
to  behold  the  mighty  wonders  enclosed  in  the  seven  castles  of  the  seven  fairies,  that  are  seated 
under  these  gloomy  waves.’  And  no  sooner  have  the  last  accents  of  the  voice  reached  the 
knight’s  ear,  but  he,  without  making  any  further  reflection,  or  considering  the  danger  to  which  he 
exposes  himself,  and  even  without  laying  aside  his  ponderous  armour,  only  recommending  himself 
to  Heaven  and  to  his  lady,  plunges  headlong  into  the  middle  of  the  burning  lake  ; and  when  least 
he  imagines  it,  or  can  guess  where  he  shall  stop,  he  finds  himself  on  a sudden  in  the  midst  of 
verdant  fields,  to  which  the  Elysian  bear  no  comparison.  There  the  sky  appears  to  him  more 
transparent,  and  the  sun  seems  to  shine  with  a redoubled  brightness.  Next  he  discovers  a most 
delightful  grove  made  up  of  beautiful  shady  trees,  whose  verdure  and  variety  regale  his  sight,  while 
his  ears  are  ravished  with  the  wild  and  yet  melodious  notes  of  an  infinite  number  of  pretty  painted 
birds,  that  hop,  and  bill,  and  sport  themselves  on  the  twining  boughs.  Here  he  spies  a pleasant 
rivulet,  which,  through  its  flowery  banks,  glides  along  over  the  brightest  sand,  and  re-murmurs  over 
the  whitest  pebbles  that  bedimple  its  smooth  surface,  while  that  other,  through  its  liquid  crystal, 
feasts  the  eye  with  a prospect  of  gold  and  orient  pearl.  There  he  perceives  an  artificial  fountain, 
formed  of  party-coloured  jasper  and  polished  marble  ; and  hard  by  another,  contrived  in  grotesque, 
where  the  small  cockle-shells,  placed  in  orderly  confusion  among  the  white  and  yellow  shells,  and 
mixed  with  pieces  of  bright  crystal  and  counterfeit  emeralds,  yield  a delectable  sight ; so  that  art, 
imitating  nature,  seems  here  to  out-do  her.  At  a distance,  on  a sudden,  he  casts  his  eyes  upon  a 
strong  castle,  or  stately  palace,  whose  walls  are  of  massy  gold,  the  battlements  of  diamonds,  and  the 
gates  of  hyacinths  ; in  short,  itsTStructure  is  so  wonderful,  that  though  all  the  materials  are  no  other 
than  diamonds,  carbuncles,  rubies,  pearls,  gold,  and  emeralds,  yet  the  workmanship  exceeds  them 
in  value. 

“ But  having  seen  all  this,  can  anything  be  so  charming  as  to  behold  a numerous  train  of 
beautiful  damsels  come  out  of  the  castle,  in  su*th  glorious  and  costly  apparel  as  would  be 
endless  for  me  to  describe,  were  I to  relate  these  things  as  they  are  to  be  found  in  history  ? 
Then  to  see  the  beauty  that  seems  the  chief  of  all  the  damsels,  take  the  bold  knight,  who 
cast  himself  into  the  burning  lake,  by  the  hand,  and  without  speaking  one  word,  lead  him  into 
a sumptuous  palace,  where  he  is  put  into  a delicious  bath,  and  perfumed  with  precious  essences 
and  odoriferous  oils ; after  which  he  puts  on  a fine  shirt,  deliciously  scented  ; and  this  done, 
another  damsel  throws  over  his  shoulders  a magnificent  robe,  worth  at  least  a whole  city,  if  not 
more.  What  a sight  is  it,  when  in  the  next  place  they  lead  him  into  another  room  of  state, 
where  he  finds  the  tables  so  orderly  covered,  that  he  is  surprised  and  astonished  ? There  they 
pour  over  his  hands  water  distilled  from  amber  and  odoriferous  flowers  : he  is  seated  in  an 
ivory  chair  ; and  while  all  the  damsels  that  attend  him  observe  a profound  silence,  such  variety 
of  dainties  is  served  up,  and  all  so  incomparably  dressed,  that  his  appetite  is  at  a stand,  doubting 
on  which  to  satisfy  its  desire ; at  the  same  time  his  ears  are  sweetly  entertained  with  variety  of 
excellent  music,  none  perceiving  who  makes  it,  or  from  whence  it  comes.  But  above  all,  what 


356 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


shall  we  say  to  see,  after  the  dinner  is  ended,  and  tables  taken  away,  the  knight  left  leaning 
back  in  his  chair,  perhaps  picking  his  teeth,  as  is  usual ; and  then  another  damsel,  much  more 
beautiful  than  any  of  the  former,  comes  unexpectedly  into  the  room,  and  sitting  down  by  the 
knight,  begins  to  inform  him  what  castle  that  is,  and  how  she  is  enchanted  in  it ; with  many 
other  particulars,  which  surprise  the  knight,  and  astonish  those  that  read  his  history.  I will 
enlarge  no  more  upon  this  matter,  since,  from  what  has  been  said,  it  may  sufficiently  be  inferred 
that  the  reading  of  any  passage  in  any  history  of  knight-errantry  must  be  very  delightful  and 
surprising  to  the  reader.  Believe  me,  good  sir  ; as  I said  to  you  before,  read  these  books, 
which  you  will  find  will  banish  all  melancholy,  if  you  are  troubled  with  it,  and  sweeten  your 
disposition,  if  it  be  harsh.  This  I can  say  for  myself,  that  since  I have  been  a knight-errant,  I 
am  brave,  courteous,  bountiful,  well-bred,  generous,  civil,  bold,  affable,  patient,  a sufferer  of 
hardships,  imprisonment,  and  enchantment.  And  though  I have  so  lately  been  shut  up  in  a cage, 
like  a madman,  I expect,  through  the  valour  of  my  arm,  Heaven  favouring,  and  fortune  not 
opposing  my  designs,  to  be  a king  of  some  kingdom  in  a very  few  days,  that  so  I may  give  proofs 
of  my  innate  gratitude  and  liberality.  For  on  my  word,  sir,  a poor  man  is  incapable  of  exerting 
his  liberality,  though  he  be  naturally  never  so  well  inclined.  Now,  that  gratitude  which  only 
consists  in  wishes  may  be  said  to  be  dead,  as  faith  without  good  works  is  dead.  Therefore  it  is, 
I wish  fortune  would  soon  offer  some  opportunity  for  me  to  become  an  emperor,  that  I might  give 
proofs  of  my  generosity,  by  advancing  my  friends,  but  especially  this  poor  Sancho  Panza,  my  squire, 
who  is  the  most  harmless  fellow  in  the  world  ; and  I would  willingly  give  him  an  earldom,  which 
I have  long  since  promised  him,  but  that  I fear  he  has  not  sense  and  judgment  enough  to 
manage  it.” 

Sancho,  hearing  his  master’s  last  words,  “Well,  well,  sir,”  said  he,  “never  do  you  trouble 
your  head  about  that  matter  ; all  you  have  to  do  is  to  get  me  this  same  earldom,  and  let  me  alone 
to  manage  it : I can  do  as  my  betters  have  done  before  me  ; I can  put  in  a deputy  or  a servant, 
that  shall  take  all  trouble  off  my  hands,  while  I,  as  a great  man  should,  loll  at  my  ease,  receive  my 
rents,  mind  no  business,  live  merrily,  and  so  let  the  world  rub  for  Sancho.” 

“ As  to  the  management  of  your  revenue,”  said  the  canon,  “ a deputy  or  steward  may  do  well, 
friend  ; but  the  lord  himself  is  obliged  to  stir  in  the  administration  of  justice,  to  which  there  is  not 
only  an  honest,  sincere  intention  required,  but  a judicious  head  also,  to  distinguish  nicely,  conclude 
justly,  and  choose  wisely  ; for  if  this  be  wanting  in  the  principal,  all  will  be  wrong  in  the  medium, 
and ” 

“ I do  not  understand  your  philosophy,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ all  I said,  and  I will  say  it  again,  is, 
that  I wish  I had  as  good  an  earldom  as  I could  govern  ; for  I have  as  great  a soul  as  another 
man,  and  as  great  a body  as  most  men.  And  the  first  thing  I would  do  in  my  government,  I 
would  have  nobody  to  control  me;  I would  be  absolute.  Now,  he  that  is  absolute  can  do  what 
he  likes  ; he  that  can  do  what  he  likes  can  take  his  pleasure  ; he  that  can  take  his  pleasure 
can  be  content ; and  he  that  can  be  content  has  no  more  to  desire ; so  the  matter’s  over,  and  come 


Another  damsel  comes  into  the  room,  and  begins  to  inform  him  what  castle  that  is.  and  how  she  is  enchanted 


mm 


fa 

v aW&BgSfis 

fwwPir 

!|i%’  §||j| 

jgaftaj^gyfl 

353 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


what  will  come,  I am  satisfied  : if  an  island,  welcome  ; if  no  island,  fare  it  well ; ‘ we  shall  see 
ourselves  in  no  worse  a condition,’  as  one  blind  man  said  to  another.” 

“ This  is  no  ill  reasoning  of  yours,  friend,”  said  the  canon,  “though  there  is  much  more  to  be 
said  on  the  topic  of  earldoms  than  you  imagine.” 

“ Undoubtedly,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “but  I suit  my  actions  to  the  example  of  Amadis  de 
Gaul,  who  made  his  squire  Gandalin  earl  of  the  Firm  Island  ; which  is  a fair  precedent  for  preferring 
Sancho  to  the  same  dignity,  to  which  his  merit  also  lays  an  unquestionable  claim.” 

The  canon  stood  amazed  at  Don  Quixote’s  methodical  and  orderly  madness,  in  describing  the 
adventure  of  the  Knight  of  the  Lake,  and  the  impression  made  on  him  by  the  fabulous  conceits  of 
the  books  he  had  read  ; as  likewise  at  Sancho’s  simplicity  in  so  eagerly  contending  for  his  earldom, 
which  made  the  whole  company  very  good  sport. 

By  this  time  the  canon’s  servants  had  brought  the  provision,  and  spreading  a carpet  on  the 
grass  under  the  shady  trees,  they  sat  down  to  dinner ; when  presently  they  heard  the  tinkling  of  a 
little  bell  among  the  copses  close  by  them,  and  immediately  afterwards  they  saw  bolt  out  of  the 
thicket  a very  pretty  she-goat,  speckled  all  over  with  black,  white,  and  brown  spots,  and  a goatherd 
running  after  it ; who,  in  his  familiar  dialect,  called  to  it  to  stay  and  return  to  the  fold  ; but  the 
fugitive  ran  towards  the  company,  frightened  and  panting,  and  stopped  close  by  them,  as  if  it  had 
begged  their  protection.  The  goatherd  overtaking  it,  caught  it  by  the  horns,  and  in  a chiding  way, 
as  if  the  goat  understood  his  resentments,  “ You  little  wanton  nanny,”  said  he,  “you  spotted  elf, 
what  has  made  you  trip  it  so  much  of  late  ? what  wolf  has  scared  you  thus,  hussy  ? tell  me,  little 
fool,  what  is  the  matter  ? Turn  back,  my  love,  turn  back,  and  though  thou  canst  not  be  content 
with  thy  fold,  yet  there  thou  mayest  be  safe  among  the  rest  of  thy  fellows  ; for  if  thou,  that 
shouldest  guide  and  direct  the  flock,  lovest  wandering  thus,  what  must  they  do  ? what  will  become 
of  them  ? ” 

The  goatherd’s  talk  to  his  goat  was  entertaining  enough  to  the  company,  especially  to  the 
canon,  who  calling  to  him,  “ Prythee,  honest  fellow,”  said  he,  “ have  a little  patience,  and  let 
your  goat  take  its  liberty  a while  ; come  and  take  a bit,  and  a glass  of  wine  with  us  : y®u 
may  be  better  humoured  after  that.”  He  then  reached  him  the  leg  of  a cold  rabbit,  and,  ordering 
him  a glass  of  wine,  the  goatherd  drank  it  off,  and  returning  thanks,  was  pacified.  “ Gentlemen,” 
said  he,  “ I would  not  have  you  think  me  a fool,  because  I talk  so  seriously  to  this  senseless 
animal,  for  my  words  bear  a mysterious  meaning.  I am,  indeed,  as  you  see,  rustical  and 
unpolished,  though  not  so  ignorant  but  that  I converse  with  men  as  well  as  brutes.” 

“ That  is  no  miracle,”  said  the  curate,  “ for  I have  known  the  woods  breed  learned  men,  and 
simple  sheepcotes  contain  philosophers.” 

“ At  least,”  said  the  goatherd,  “ they  harbour  men  that  have  some  knowledge  of  the  world  ; 
and  to  make  good  this  truth,  if  1 thought  not  the  offer  impertinent,  or  my  company  troublesome, 
you  should  hear  an  adventure,  which  but  too  well  confirms  what  you  have  said.” 

“For  my  part,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  hear  you  attentively,  because,  methinks,  your 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


359 


coming  has  something  in  it  that  looks  like  an  affair  of  knight-errantry  ; and  I dare  answer,  the 
whole  company  will  not  so  much  bring  their  parts  in  question,  as  to  refuse  to  hear  a story  so 
pleasing,  surprising,  and  amusing,  as  I fancy  yours  will  prove.  Then  prythee,  friend,  begin,  for 
we  will  all  give  you  our  attention.” 

“ You  must  excuse  me  for  one,”  said  Sancho  ; “ I must  have  a word  or  two  in  private  with  this 
same  pasty  at  yon  little  brook  ; for  I design  to  fill  my  belly  for  to-morrow  and  next  day  ; having 
often  heard  my  master  Don  Quixote  say,  that  whenever  a knight-errant’s  squire  finds  good  belly- 
timber,  he  must  fall  to  and  feed  till  his  sides  are  ready  to  burst,  because  they  may  happen  to  be 
bewildered  in  a thick  wood  for  five  or  six  days  together  ; so  that  if  a man  has  not  his  belly  full 
beforehand,  or  his  wallet  well  provided,  he  may  chance  to  be  crows’  meat  himself,  as  many  times  it 
falls  out.” 

“ You  are  in  the  right,  Sancho,”  said  the  knight ; “ but  I have,  for  my  part,  satisfied  my  bodily 
appetite,  and  now  want  only  refreshment  for  my  mind,  which  I hope  this  honest  fellow’s  story  will 
afford  me.” 

All  the  company  agreed  with  Don  Quixote  : the  goatherd,  then  stroking  his  pretty  goat  once 
or  twice,  “ Lie  down,  thou  speckled  fool,”  said  he ; “ lie  by  me  here  ; for  we  shall  have  time  enough 
to  return  home.” 

The  creature  seemed  to  understand  him,  for  as  soon  as  her  master  sat  down,  she  stretched 
herself  quietly  by  his  side,  and  looked  up  in  his  face  as  if  she  would  let  him  know  that  she  minded 
what  he  said ; and  then  he  began  his  story. 


CHAPTER  XLVII. 


THE  GOATHERDS  TALE. 


BOUT  three  leagues  from  this  valley  there  is  a village,  which,  though  small,  yet  is  one  of* 
the  richest  hereabouts.  In  it  there  lived  a farmer  in  very  great  esteem  ; and,  though  it  is 
common  for  the  rich  to  be  respected,  yet  was  this  person  more  considered  for  his  virtue  than  for 
the  wealth  he  possessed.  But  what  he  accounted  himself  happiest  in  was  a daughter  of  such  extra- 
ordinary beauty,  prudence,  wit,  and  virtue,  that  all  who  knew  or  beheld  her  could  not  but  admire  to 
see  how  Heaven  and  Nature  had  done  their  utmost  to  embellish  her.  When  she  was  but  little  she 
was  handsome,  but  at  the  age  of  sixteen  she  was  most  completely  beautiful.  The  fame  of  her 
beauty  began  to  extend  to  the  neighbouring  villages  ; but  why  say  I neighbouring  villages  ? it 
extended  to  the  remotest  cities,  and  entered  the  palaces  of  kings,  and  the  ears  of  all  manner  of 
persons,  who  from  all  parts  flocked  to  see  her,  as  something  rare,  or  as  a sort  of  prodigy.  Her 
father  was  strictly  careful  of  her,  nor  was  she  less  careful  of  herself ; for  there  are  no  guards,  bolts, 
or  locks  which  preserve  a young  woman  like  her  own  care  and  caution. 

“ The  father’s  riches  and  the  daughter’s  beauty  drew  a great  many,  as  well  strangers  as  inhabit- 
ants of  that  country,  to  sue  for  her  in  marriage  ; but  such  was  the  vast  number  of  the  pretenders, 
that  it  did  but  the  more  confound  and  divide  the  old  man  in  his  choice  upon  whom  to  bestow  so 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


36  i 

valuable  a treasure.  Among  the  crowd  of  admirers  was  I ; having  good  reason  to  hope  for  success, 
from  the  knowledge  her  father  had  of  me,  being  a native  of  the  same  place,  of  a good  family,  and  in 
the  flower  of  my  years,  of  a considerable  estate,  and  not  to  be  despised  for  my  understanding.  With 
the  very  same  advantages,  there  was  another  person  of  our  village  who  made  court  to  her  at  the 
same  time.  This  put  the  father  to  a stand,  and  held  him  in  suspense,  till  his  daughter  should 
declare  in  favour  of  one  of  us  : to  bring  this  affair,  therefore,  to  the  speedier  issue,  he  resolved  to 
acquaint  Leandra,  for  so  was  this  fair  one  called,  that  since  we  were  equals  in  all  things,  he  left  her 
entirely  free  to  choose  which  of  us  was  most  agreeable  to  herself — an  example  worthy  of  being 
imitated  by  all  parents,  who  have  any  regard  for  their  children.  I don’t  mean  that  they  should  be 
allowed  to  choose  in  things  mean  or  mischievous  ; but  only  that  proposing  to  them  ever  those  things 
which  are  good,  they  should  be  allowed  in  them  to  gratify  their  inclination. 

“ I do  not  know  how  Leandra  approved  this  proposal ; this  I only  know,  that  her  father  put  us 
both  off,  with  the  excuse  of  his  daughter’s  being  too  young  to  be  yet  disposed  of ; and  that  he 
treated  us  both  in  such  general  terms  as  could  neither  well  please  nor  displease  us.  My  rival’s 
name  is  Anselmo,  mine  Eugenio  ; for  it  is  necessary  you  should  know  the  names  of  the  persons 
concerned  in  this  tragedy,  the  conclusion  of  which,  though  depending  yet,  may  easily  be  perceived 
likely  to  be  unfortunate.  About  that  time  there  came  to  our  village  one  Vincent  de  la  Rosa,  the 
son  of  a poor  labouring  man  of  the  neighbourhood.  This  Vincent  came  out  of  Italy,  having  been  a 
soldier  there,  and  in  other  foreign  parts.  When  he  was  but  twelve  years  old,  a captain  who 
happened  to  pass  by  here  with  his  company  took  him  out  of  this  country,  and  at  the  end  of  other 
twelve  years  he  returned  hither,  habited  like  a soldier,  all  gay  and  glorious,  in  a thousand  various 
colours,  bedecked  with  a thousand  toys  of  crystal,  and  chains  of  steel.  To-day  he  put  on  one  piece 
of  finery,  to-morrow  another  ; but  all  false,  counterfeit,  and  worthless.  The  country  people,  who  by 
nature  are  malicious,  and  who,  living  in  idleness,  are  still  more  inclined  to  malice,  observed  this 
presently,  and  counting  all  his  fine  things,  they  found  that  indeed  he  had  but  three  suits  of  clothes, 
which  were  of  a very  different  colour  from  the  stockings  and  garters  belonging  to  them  ; yet  did  he 
manage  them  with  so  many  tricks  and  inventions,  that  if  one  had  not  counted  them,  one  would  have 
sworn  he  had  above  ten  suits,  and  above  twenty  plumes  of  feathers. 

“ Let  it  not  seem  impertinent  that  I mention  this  particular  of  his  clothes  and  trinkets,  since  so 
much  of  the  story  depends  upon  it.  Seating  himself  upon  a bench,  under  a large  spreading  poplar- 
tree  which  grows  in  our  street,  he  used  to  entertain  us  with  his  exploits,  while  we  stood  gaping  and 
listening  at  the  wonders  he  recounted  : there  was  not  that  country,  as  he  said,  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  which  he  had  not  seen,  nor  battle  which  he  had  not  been  engaged  in  ; he  had  killed  more 
Moors,  for  his  own  share,  than  were  in  Morocco  and  Tunis  together  ; and  had  fought  more  duels 
than  Gante,  Luna,  Diego,  Garcia  de  Peredez,  or  a thousand  others  that  he  named,  yet  in  all  of  them 
had  the  better,  and  never  got  a scratch,  or  lost  a drop  of  blood.  Then  again  he  pretended  to  show 
us  the  scars  of  wounds  he  had  received,  which,  though  they  were  not  to  be  perceived,  yet  he  gave 

us  to  understand  they  were  so  many  musket-shots,  which  he  had  got  in  several  skirmishes  and 

46 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  363' 

encounters.  In  short,  he  treated  all  his  equals  with  an  unparalleled  arrogance  ; and  even  to  those 
who  knew  the  meanness  of  his  birth,  he  did  not  stick  to  affirm  that  his  own  arm  was  his 
father,  his  actions  were  his  pedigree,  and  that  except  his  being  a soldier,  he  owed  no  part  of 
his  quality  to  the  king  himself,  and  in  being  a soldier  he  was  as  good  as  the  king. 

“ Besides  these  assumed  accomplishments,  he  was  a piece  of  a musician,  and  could  thrum  a 
guitar  a little;  but  what  his  excellency  chiefly  lay  in  was  poetry;  and  so  fond  was  he  of 
showing  his  parts  that  way,  that  upon  every  trifling  occasion  he  was  sure  to  make  a copy  of 
verses  a league  and  a half  long.  This  soldier  whom  I have  described — this  Vincent  de  la 
Rosa,  this  hero,  this  gallant,  this  musician,  this  poet — was  often  seen  and  viewed  by  Leandra, 
from  a window  of  her  house  which  looked  into  the  street  : she  was  struck  with  the  tinsel  of 
his  dress  ; she  was  charmed  with  his  verses,  of  which  he  took  care  to  disperse  a great  many 
copies ; her  ears  were  pleased  with  the  exploits  he  related  of  himself ; and  in  short,  she  fell  in 
love  with  him,  before  ever  he  had  the  confidence  to  make  his  addresses  to  her ; and,  as  in 
all  affairs  of  love,  so  was  it  here  no  hard  thing  for  Leandra  and  Vincent  to  have  frequent  meetings 
to  concert  their  matters ; and  before  ever  any  one  of  her  many  suitors  had  the  least  suspicion 
of  her  inclination,  she  had  left  her  father’s  house,  for  she  had  no  mother,  and  had  run  away  with 
this  soldier,  who  came  off  with  greater  triumph  in  this  enterprise  than  in  any  of  the  rest  he  made 
his  boast  of. 

“ The  whole  village  was  surprised  at  this  accident,  as  was  every  one  that  heard  it.  I was 
amazed,  Anselmo  distracted,  her  father  in  tears,  her  relations  outrageous  ; justice  is  demanded  ; 
a party  with  officers  is  sent  out,  who  traverse  the  roads,  search  every  wood,  and,  at  three  days’ 
end,  find  the  poor  fond  Leandra  in  a cave  of  one  of  the  mountains,  robbed  of  a great  deal  of 
money  and  jewels  which  she  took  from  home.  They  bring  and  present  her  to  her  father.  Upon 
inquiry  made,  she  confessed  ingenuously  that  Vincent  de  la  Rosa,  upon  promise  of  marriage,  had 
prevailed  with  her  to  leave  her  father’s  house,  with  the  assurance  of  carrying  her  to  the  richest 
and  most  delicious  city  of  the  world,  which  was  Naples;  that  she  foolishly  had  given  credit  to 
him,  and,  robbing  her  father,  had  put  herself  into  his  hands  ; that  he  carried  her  up  a steep, 
wild,  craggy  mountain,  and  put  her  in  that  cave  where  she  was  found.  The  very  same  day  that 
Leandra  appeared  again,  she  also  disappeared  from  us,  for  her  father  immediately  clapped  her  up  in 
a monastery,  in  a town  not  far  off,  in  hopes  that  time  might  wear  away  something  of  her  disgrace. 

“ Since  the  imprisonment  of  Leandra,  Anselmo’s  eyes  could  never  meet  with  an  object  which 
could  give  him  either  ease  or  pleasure  ; I,  too,  could  find  nothing  but  what  looked  sad  and  gloomy 
to  me  in  the  absence  of  Leandra.  Our  melancholy  increased  as  our  patience  decreased.  We 
cursed  a thousand  times  the  soldier’s  finery  and  trinkets,  and  railed  at  the  father’s  want  of  pre- 
caution. At  last  we  agreed,  Anselmo  and  I,  to  leave  the  village,  and  to  retire  L this  valley,  where, 
he  feeding  a large  flock  of  sheep,  and  I as  large  a herd  of  goats,  all  our  own,  we  pass  our  time 
under  the  trees,  singing  in  consort  the  praises  or  reproaches  of  the  beauteous  Leandra,  or  else, 
sighing  alone,  make  our  complaints  to  Heaven  on  our  misfortune.  In  imitation  of  us,  a great  many 


Os-\vYn\\>v  Vv\' 'O', 


A ^artv  with  officers  is  sent  out,  who  find  the  noor  fond  Leandra  in  a cave  of  one  of  the  mountains” — 1>. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


365 

more  of  Leandra’s  lovers  have  come  hither  into  these  steep  mountains,  and  are  alike  employed 
On  the  top  of  that  hill  there  is  such  a number  of  shepherds  and  their  cottages,  that  there  is  no  part 
of  it  in  which  is  not  to  be  heard  the  name  of  Leandra.  Nay,  so  far  does  this  extravagance  prevail, 
that  here  are  those  who  complain  of  her  disdain  who  never  spoke  to  her.  There  is  not  a hollow 
place  of  a rock,  a bank  of  a brook,  or  a shady  grove,  where  there  is  not  some  or  other  of  these 
amorous  shepherds  telling  their  doleful  stories  to  the  air  and  winds.  Echo  has  learnt  to  repeat 
the  name  of  Leandra  ; Leandra  all  the  hills  resound  ; the  brooks  murmur  Leandra  ; and  it  is  Leandra 
that  holds  us  all  enchanted,  hoping  without  hope,  and  fearing  without  knowing  what  we  fear. 

“ Of  all  these  foolish  people,  the  person  who  shows  the  least  and  yet  has  the  most  sense,  is  my 
rival  Anselmo,  who,  forgetting  all  other  causes  of  complaint,  complains  only  of  her  absence  ; and  to 
his  lute,  which  he  touches  to  admiration,  he  joins  his  voice  in  verses  of  his  own  composing,  which 
declare  the  greatness  of  his  genius.  For  my  part,  I take  another  course — I think  a better,  I am 
sure  an  easier  : which  is  to  say  all  the  ill  things  I can  of  women’s  levity,  inconstancy,  their 
broken  vows,  and  vain,  deceitful  promises,  their  fondness  of  show  and  disregard  of  merit.  This, 
gentlemen,  was  the  occasion  of  those  words  which,  at  my  coming  hither,  I addressed  to  this  goat. 
Hard  by  is  my  cottage,  where  I have  some  good  fresh  milk  and  excellent  cheese,  with  several 
sorts  of  fruits,  which  I hope  you  will  find  agreeable  both  to  the  sight  and  taste.” 


I 


CHAPTER  XLVIII. 

OF  THE  COMBAT  BETWEEN  DON  QUIXOTE  AND  THE  GOATHERD;  WITH  THE  RARE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE 
PENITENTS,  WHICH  THE  KNIGHT  HAPPILY  ACCOMPLISHED  WITH  THE  SWEAT  OF  HIS  BROWS. 

THE  goatherd’s  story  was  mightily  liked  by  the  whole  company,  especially  by  the  canon, 
who  particularly  minded  the  manner  of  his  relating  it,  which  had  more  of  a scholar  and 
gentleman  than  of  a rude  goatherd ; this  made  him  conclude  the  curate  had  reason  to  say 
that  even  the  mountains  bred  scholars  and  men  of  sense.  They  all  made  large  proffers 
of  their  friendship  and  service  to  Eugenio,  but  Don  Quixote  exceeded  them  all ; and 
addressing  himself  to  him,  “Were  I,”  said  he,  “at  this  time  in  a capacity  of  undertaking  any 
adventure,  I would  certainly  begin  from  this  very  moment  to  serve  you.  I would  soon  release 
Leandra  out  of  this  nunnery,  where  undoubtedly  she  is  detained  against  her  will  ; and  in  spite 
of  all  the  opposition  that  could  be  made  by  the  lady  abbess  and  her  adherents,  I would  return  her 
to  your  hands,  that  you  might  have  the  sole  disposal  of  her — so  far,  I mean,  as  is  consistent  with 

the  laws  of  knighthood,  which  expressly  forbid  that  any  man  should  offer  the  least  violence  to  a 

damsel  ; yet  I trust  in  Heaven  that  the  power  of  a friendly  magician  will  prevail  against  the 
force  of  a malicious  enchanter ; and  whenever  this  shall  happen,  you  may  assure  yourself 
of  my  favour  and  assistance,  to  which  I am  obliged  by  my  profession,  that  enjoins  me  to  relieve 
the  oppressed.” 

The  goatherd,  who  till  then  had  not  taken  the  least  notice  of  Don  Quixote  in  particular, 
now  looking  earnestly  on  him,  and  finding  his  dismal  countenance  and  wretched  habit  were 
no  great  encouragement  for  him  to  expect  a performance  of  such  mighty  matters,  whispered  the 
barber,  who  sat  next  him  : “ Pray,  sir,”  said  he,  “who  is  this  man  that  talks  so  extravagantly? 

for  I protest  I never  saw  so  strange  a figure  in  all  my  life.” 

“ Whom  can  you  imagine  it  should  be,”  replied  the  barber,  “ but  the  famous  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,  the  establisher  of  justice,  the  avenger  of  injuries,  the  protector  of  damsels,  the 
terror  of  giants,  and  the  invincible  gainer  of  battles  ?” 

“ The  account  you  give  of  this  person,”  returned  the  goatherd,  “ is  much  like  what  we  read 
in  romances  and  books  of  chivalry  of  those  doughty  dons  who,  for  their  mighty  prowess  and 
achievements,  were  called  knights-errant ; and  therefore  I dare  say  you  do  but  jest,  and  that  this 
gentleman’s  brains  have  deserted  their  quarters.” 


Sancho  Panza  alone  was  vexed,  fretted  himself  to  death,  and  raved  like  a madman.” — p.  368. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


368 

“ Thou  art  an  impudent,  insolent  varlet !”  cried  Don  Quixote.  “ It  is  thy  paper  skull  is  full 
of  empty  rooms.” 

With  that,  snatching  up  a loaf  that  was  near  him,  he  struck  the  goatherd  so  furious  a blow 
with  it,  that  he  almost  levelled  his  nose  with  his  face.  The  other,  not  accustomed  to  such 
salutations,  no  sooner  perceived  how  scurvily  he  was  treated,  but  without  any  respect  to  the 

table-cloth,  napkins,  or  to  those  who  were  eating,  he  leaped  furiously  on  Don  Quixote,  and 

grasping  him  by  the  throat  with  both  his  hands,  had  certainly  strangled  him,  had  not  Sancho 
Panza  come  in  that  very  nick  of  time,  and  gripping  him  fast  behind,  pulled  him  backwards  on  the 
table,  bruising  dishes,  breaking  glasses,  spilling  and  overturning  all  that  lay  upon  it.  Don 
Quixote,  seeing  himself  freed,  fell  violently  again  upon  the  goatherd,  who,  all  besmeared  with 
blood,  and  trampled  upon  under  Sancho’s  feet,  groped  here  and  there  for  some  knife  or  fork  to 
take  a fatal  revenge ; but  the  canon  and  curate  took  care  to  prevent  his  purpose,  and  in  the 
meanwhile,  by  the  barber’s  contrivance,  the  goatherd  got  Don  Quixote  under  him,  on  whom  he  let 
fall  such  a tempest  of  blows  as  caused  as  great  a shower  of  blood  to  pour  from  the  poor 
knight’s  face  as  had  streamed  from  his  own.  The  canon  and  curate  were  ready  to  burst  with 
laughing  ; the  officers  danced  and  jumped  at  the  sport;  every  one  cried  “Halloo!”  as  men 
use  to  do  when  two  dogs  are  snarling  or  fighting.  Sancho  Panza  alone  was  vexed,  fretted 

himself  to  death,  and  raved  like  a madman,  because  he  could  not  get  from  one  of 

the  canon’s  serving-men,  who  kept  him  from  assisting  his  master.  In  short,  all  were 
exceedingly  merry,  except  the  poor  combatants,  who  had  mauled  one  another  most  miserably, 
when  on  a sudden  they  heard  the  sound  of  a trumpet  so  doleful,  that  it  made  them  turn  to  listen 
towards  that  part  from  whence  it  seemed  to  come.  But  he  who  was  most  troubled  at  this  dismal 
alarm  was  Don  Quixote  ; therefore,  though  he  lay  under  the  goatherd,  full  sore  against  his  will, 
and  was  most  lamentably  bruised  and  battered,  “ Evil  one,”  cried  he  to  him — “ for  sure  nothing 
less  could  have  so  much  valour  and  strength  as  to  subdue  my  forces — let  us  have  a cessation  of 
arms  but  for  a single  hour  ; for  the  dolorous  sound  of  that  trumpet  strikes  my  soul  with 
more  horror  than  thy  hard  fists  do  my  ears  with  pain,  and  methinks  excite  me  to  some  new 
adventure.” 

With  that  the  goatherd,  who  was  as  weary  of  beating  as  of  being  beaten,  immediately  gave 
him  a truce;  and  the  knight,  once  more  getting  on  his  feet,  directed  his  then  not  hasty  steps  to  the 
place  whence  the  mournful  sound  seemed  to  come,  and  presently  saw  a number  of  men  all  in 
white,  like  penitents,  descending  from  a rising  ground.  The  real  matter  was  this  : — The  people 
had  wanted  rain  for  a whole  year  together ; wherefore  they  appointed  rogations,  processions,  and 
disciplines  throughout  all  that  country,  to  implore  Heaven  to  open  its  treasury,  and  shower  down 
plenty  upon  them  ; and  to  this  end,  the  inhabitants  of  a village  near  that  place  came  in  proces- 
sion to  a devout  hermitage  built  on  one  of  the  hills  which  surrounded  that  valley. 

Don  Quixote,  taking  notice  of  the  strange  habits  of  the  penitents,  and  never  reminding 
himself  that  he  had  often  seen  the  like  before,  fancied  immediately  it  was  some  new  adventure, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


369 


and  he  alone  was  to  engage  in  it,  as  he  was  obliged  by  the  laws  of  knight-errantry  ; and  that 
which  the  more  increased  his  frenzy  was  his  mistaking  an  image  which  they  carried  (all  covered 
with  black)  for  some  great  lady,  whom  these  miscreant  and  discourteous  knights,  he  thought, 
were  carrying  away  against  her  will.  As  soon  as  this  whimsy  took  him  in  the  head,  he 
moved  with  what  expedition  he  could  towards  Rozinante,  who  was  feeding  up  and  down  upon  the 
plains,  and  whipping  off  his  bridle  from  the  pommel,  and  his  target  which  hung  hard  by,  he  bridled 
him  in  an  instant ; then,  taking  his  sword  from  Sancho,  he  got  in  a trice  on  Rozinante’s  back,  where, 
bracing  his  target,  and  addressing  himself  aloud  to  all  there  present,  “ Oh,  valorous  company,”  cried 
he,  “ you  shall  now  perceive  of  how  great  importance  it  is  to  mankind  that  such  illustrious 
persons  as  those  who  profess  the  order  of  knight-errantry  should  exist  in  the  world  ; now,  I say, 
you  shall  see,  by  my  freeing  that  noble  lady,  who  is  there  basely  and  barbarously  carried  away 
captive,  that  knight-adventurers  ought  to  be  held  in  the  highest  and  greatest  estimation.” 

So  saying,  he  pushed  Rozinante  with  his  heels  for  want  of  spurs,  and,  forcing  him  to  a hand 
gallop  (for  it  was  never  read  in  any  part  of  this  true  history  that  Rozinante  did  ever  run  full  speed), 

he  posted  to  encounter  the  penitents,  in  spite  of  all  the  curate,  canon,  and  barber  could  do  to 

hinder  him  ; much  less  could  Sancho  Panza’s  outcries  detain  him. 

“Master!  Sir!  Don  Quixote!”  bawled  out  the  poor  squire,  “whither  are  you  posting?  Are 
you  bewitched  ? What  can  drive  and  set  you  on,  thus  to  run  against  the  Church  ? Ah  ! wretch 
that  I am  ! See,  sir ! that  is  a procession  of  penitents,  and  the  lady  they  carry  is  the  image 
of  the  immaculate  Virgin,  our  blessed  lady.  Take  heed  what  you  do,  for  at  this  time  it  may  be 
certainly  said  you  are  out  of  your  wits  !”  But  Sancho  might  as  well  have  kept  his  breath  for 
another  use,  for  the  knight  was  urged  with  so  vehement  a desire  to  encounter  the  white  men,  and 
release  the  mourning  lady,  that  he  heard  not  a syllable  he  said  ; and  if  he  had,  he  would  not  have 
turned  back,  even  at  the  king’s  express  command.  At  last,  being  come  near  the  procession,  and 

stopping  Rozinante,  who  already  had  a great  desire  to  rest  a little,  in  a dismal  tone,  and  with  a 

hoarse  voice,  “ Ho  !”  cried  he,  “you  there,  who  cover  your  faces — perhaps  because  you  are  ashamed 
of  yourselves,  and  of  the  crime  you  are  now  committing — give  heed  and  attention  to  what  I have 
to  say.” 

The  first  who  stopped  at  this  alarm  were  those  who  carried  the  image  ; when  one  of  the 
four  priests  who  sung  the  litanies,  seeing  the  strange  figure  that  Don  Quixote  made,  and  the 
leanness  of  Rozinante,  with  other  circumstances  which  he  observed  in  the  knight  sufficient  to 
have  forced  laughter,  presently  made  him  this  answer:  “ Good  sir,  if  you  have  anything  to  say 
to  us,  speak  it  quickly,  for  these  poor  men  whom  you  see  are  very  much  tired ; therefore  we 
neither  can,  nor  is  it  reasonable  we  should,  stand  thus  in  pain,  to  hear  anything  that  cannot  be 

delivered  in  two  words.”  , 

( 

“ I will  say  it  in  one,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ which  is  this  : I charge  you  immediately  to 

release  that  beautiful  lady,  whose  tears  and  looks  full  of  sorrow  evidently  show  you  carry  her 

away  by  violence,  and  have  done  her  some  unheard-of  injury  : this  do,  or  I,  who  was  born  to 
47 


370 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


punish  such  outrages,  will  not  suffer  you  to  advance  one  step  with  her,  till  she  is  entirely  possessed 
of  that  liberty  she  so  earnestly  desires,  and  so  justly  deserves.” 

This  last  speech  made  them  all  conclude  that  the  knight  was  certainly  distracted,  and  caused 
a general  laughter  ; but  this  proved  like  oil  to  fire,  and  so  inflamed  Don  Quixote,  that,  laying  his 
hand  on  his  sword,  without  more  words,  he  presently  assaulted  those  who  carried  the  image.  At 
the  same  time  one  of  them  quitting  his  post,  came  to  encounter  our  hero  with  a wooden  fork, 
on  which  he  supported  the  bier  whenever  they  made  a stand,  and  warding  with  it  a weighty  blow 
which  Don  Quixote  designed  and  aimed  at  him,  the  fork  was  cut  in  two  ; but  the  other,  who  had 
the  remaining  piece  in  his  hand,  returned  the  knight  such  a thwack  on  his  left  shoulder,  that,  his 
target  not  being  able  to  resist  such  rustic  force,  the  poor  unfortunate  Don  Quixote  was  struck  to 
the  ground,  and  miserably  bruised. 

Sancho  Panza,  who  had  followed  him  as  fast  as  his  breath  and  legs  would  permit,  seeing  him 
fall,  cried  out  to  his  adversary  to  forbear  striking  him,  urging  that  he  was  a poor  enchanted  knight 
and  one  who  in  his  whole  life  had  never  done  any  man  harm.  But  it  was  not  Sancho’s  arguments 
that  held  the  country  fellow’s  hands  ; the  only  motive  was,  that  he  feared  he  had  killed  him,  since 
he  could  not  perceive  he  stirred  either  hand  or  foot  : wherefore,  tucking  his  coat  up  to  his  girdle, 
with  all  possible  expedition,  he  scoured  over  the  fields  like  a greyhound.  Meanwhile  Don 
Quixote’s  companions  hastened  to  the  place  where  he  lay,  when  those  of  the  procession,  seeing 
them  come  running  towards  them,  attended  by  the  officers  of  the  holy  brotherhood,  with  their  cross- 
bows along  with  them,  began  to  have  apprehensions  of  some  disaster  from  the  approaching  party ; 
wherefore,  drawing  up  in  a body  about  the  image,  the  disciplinants  lifting  up  their  hoods,  and 
grasping  fast  their  whips,  as  the  priests  did  their  tapers,  they  awaited  the  assault  with  the 
greatest  bravery,  resolving  to  defend  themselves  and  offend  their  enemy  as  long  and  as  much  as 
possible.  But  Providence  had  ordered  the  matter  much  better  than  they  could  hope ; for  while 
Sancho,  who  had  thrown  himself  on  his  master’s  body,  was  lamenting  his  loss,  and  the  supposed 
death  of  so  noble  and  generous  a lord,  in  the  most  ridiculous  manner  that  ever  was  heard,  the 
curate  of  the  knight’s  party  was  come  up  with  the  other  who  came  in  the  procession,  and  was 
immediately  known  by  him,  so  that  their  acquaintance  put  an  end  to  the  fears  which  both  sides 
were  in  of  an  engagement.  Don  Quixote’s  curate,  in  few  words,  acquainted  the  other  with  the 
knight’s  circumstances  ; whereupon  he,  and  the  whole  squadron  of  penitents,  went  over  to  see 
whether  the  unfortunate  knight  were  living  or  dead,  and  heard  Sancho  Panza,  with  tears  in  his 
eyes,  bewailing  over  his  master  : “ Oh,  flower  of  knighthood,”  cried  he,  “ that  with  one  single 
perilous  knock  art  come  to  an  untimely  end  ! Thou  honour  of  thy  family,  and  glory  of  all  La 
Mancha  ! nay,  and  of  all  the  ’varsal  world  beside,  which,  now  it  has  lost  thee,  will  be  over-run  by 
miscreants  and  outlaws,  who  will  no  longer  be  afraid  to  be  mauled  for  their  misdeeds.  Oh,  bountiful 
above  all  the  Alexanders  in  the  world  ! thou  who  hast  rewarded  me  but  for  poor  eight  months' 
service  with  the  best  island  that  is  washed  by  salt  water ! thou  who  wert  humble  to  the  proud, 
and  haughty  to  the  humble  ! thou  who  didst  undertake  perils,  and  patiently  endure  affronts ! 


The  woful  accents  of  the  squire’s  voice  at  last  re  called  Don  Quixote  to  himself.’’—^.  372. 


372 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


thou  who  wert  in  love,  nobody  knows  why ! true  patron  of  good  men,  and  scourge  of  the 
wicked ! sworn  foe  to  all  reprobates ! and,  to  say  all  at  once  that  man  can  say,  thou  knight 
errant !” 

The  woful  accents  of  the  squire’s  voice  at  last  re-called  Don  Quixote  to  himself ; when,  after 
a deep  sigh,  the  first  thing  he  thought  of  was  his  absent  Dulcinea. 

“ Oh,  charming  Dulcinea,”  cried  he,  “ the  wretch  that  lingers  banished  from  thy  sight 
endures  far  greater  miseries  than  this  !”  And  then,  looking  on  his  faithful  squire,  “ Good  Sancho,” 
said  he,  “ help  me  once  more  into  the  enchanted  car  ; for  I am  not  in  a condition  to  press  the 
back  of  Rozinante  ; this  shoulder  is  all  broke  to  pieces.” 

“ With  all  my  heart,  my  good  lord,”  replied  Sancho,  “ and  pray  let  me  advise  you  to  go  back 
to  our  village  with  these  gentlemen,  who  are  your  special  friends.  At  home  we  may  think  of  some 
other  journey,  that  may  be  more  profitable  and  honourable  than  this.” 

“ With  reason  hast  thou  spoken,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “ it  will  become  our  wisdom 
to  be  inactive,  till  the  malevolent  aspects  of  the  planets  which  now  reign  be  over.” 

This  grave  resolution  was  highly  commended  by  the  canon,  curate,  and  barber,  who  had  been 
sufficiently  diverted  by  Sancho  Panza’s  ridiculous  lamentation.  Don  Quixote  was  placed  in  the 
wagon  as  before,  the  processioners  recovered  their  former  order,  and  passed  on  about  their 
business.  The  goatherd  took  his  leave  of  the  whole  company.  The  curate  satisfied  the  officers 
for  their  attendance,  since  they  would  stir  no  farther.  The  canon  desired  the  curate  to  send  him 
an  account  of  Don  Quixote’s  condition  from  that  time  forward,  having  a mind  to  know  whether  his 
frenzy  abated  or  increased,  and  then  took  his  leave,  to  continue  his  journey.  Thus  the  curate, 
the  barber,  Don  Quixote,  and  Sancho  Panza  were  left  together,  as  also  the  good  Rozinante, 
who  bore  all  these  passages  as  patiently  as  his  master.  The  wagoner  then  yoked  his 
oxen,  and,  having  set  Don  Quixote  on  a truss  of  hay,  jogged  on,  after  his  slow  accustomed 
pace,  the  way  the  curate  had  directed.  In  six  days’  time  they  reached  the  knight’s  village.  It 
was  about  noon  when  they  entered  the  town  ; and  as  it  happened  to  be  on  a Sunday,  all  the 
people  were  in  the  market-place,  through  the  middle  of  which  Don  Quixote’s  car  must  of 
necessity  pass.  Everybody  was  curious  to  know  what  was  in  it ; and  the  people  were  strangely 
surprised  when  they  saw  and  knew  their  townsman.  While  they  were  gaping  and  wondering,  a 
little  boy  ran  to  the  knight’s  house,  and  gave  intelligence  to  the  housekeeper  and  niece  that  their 
master  and  uncle  was  returned,  and  very  lean,  pale,  and  frightful  as  a ghost,  stretched  out  at  length 
on  a bundle  of  hay,  in  a wagon,  and  drawn  along  by  a team  of  oxen. 

It  was  a piteous  thing  to  hear  the  wailings  of  those  two  poor  creatures  ; the  thumps,  too, 
which  they  gave  their  faces,  with  the  curses  and  execrations  they  thundered  out  against  all  books 
of  chivalry,  were  almost  as  numerous  as  their  sighs  and  tears.  But  the  height  of  their  lamenting 
was  when  Don  Quixote  entered  the  door.  Upon  the  noise  of  his  arrival,  Sancho  Panza’s  wife 
made  haste  thither  to  inquire  after  her  good  man,  who,  she  was  informed,  went  a-squiring  with  the 
knight.  As  soon  as  ever  she  set  eyes  on  him,  the  question  she  asked  him  was  this,  “ Is  the  ass 
in  health,  or  no  ?” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


373 


Sancho  answered  that  he  was  come  back  in  better  health  than  his  master. 

“ Well,”  said  she,  “ Heaven  be  praised  for  the  good  news.  But  hark  you,  my  friend,”  continued 
she,  “ what  have  you  got  by  this  new  squireship  ? Have  you  brought  me  home  ever  a gown  or 
petticoat,  or  shoes  for  my  children  ?” 

“In  troth,  sweet  wife,”  replied  Sancho,  “ I have  brought  thee  none  of  those  things  ; I am 
loaded  with  better  things.” 

“ Ay,”  said  his  wife,  “ that’s  well.  Pr’ythee  let  me  see  some  of  them  fine  things,  for  I vow  I 
have  a great  desire  to  see  them  ; the  sight  of  them  will  comfort  my  poor  heart,  which  has  been 
like  to  burst  with  sorrow  and  grief  ever  since  thou  wentest  away.” 

“ I’ll  show  them  thee  when  we  come  home,”  returned  Sancho.  “In  the  meantime  rest 
satisfied ; for  if  Heaven  see  good  that  we  should  once  again  go  abroad  in  search  of  other 
adventures,  within  a little  time  after,  at  my  return,  thou  shalt  find  me  some  earl,  or  the  governor 
of  some  island — ay,  of  one  of  the  very  best  in  the  whole  world.” 

“ I wish  with  all  my  heart  this  may  come  to  pass,”  replied  the  good  wife  ; “ for,  by  my  troth, 
husband,  we  want  it  sorely.  But  what  do  you  mean  by  that  same  word  island  ? for  believe  me 
I don’t  understand  it.” 

“ All  in  good  time,  wife,”  said  Sancho.  “ ‘ Honey  is  not  made  for  an  ass’s  mouth  I’ll  tell  thee 
what  it  is  hereafter.  Thou  wilt  be  amazed  to  hear  all  thy  servants  and  vassals  never  speak 
a word  to  thee  without  ‘ An’t  please  you,  madam ;’  * An’t  like  your  ladyship ; ’ and  ‘ Your 

H>  )> 

onour. 

“What  dost  thou  mean,  Sancho,  by  ladyship,  islands,  and  vassals  ?”  quoth  Joan  Panza,  for  so 
she  was  called,  though  her  husband  and  she  were  nothing  a-kin ; only  it  is  a custom  in  La  Mancha 
that  the  wives  are  there  called  by  their  husbands’  sirnames. 

“Pr’ythee,  Joan,”  said  Sancho,  “ do  not  trouble  thy  head  to  know  these  matters  all  at  once 
and  in  a heap,  as  a body  may  say  ; it  is  enough  I tell  thee  the  truth,  therefore  hold  thy  tongue. 
Yet,  by  the  way,  one  thing  I will  assure  thee,  that  nothing  in  the  ’varsal  world  is  better  for  ail 
honest  man  than  to  be  squire  to  a knight-errant,  while  he  is  hunting  of  adventures.  It  is  true, 
most  adventures  he  goes  about  do  not  answer  a man’s  expectations  so  much  as  he  could  wish  ; 
for  of  a hundred  that  are  met  with,  ninety-nine  are  wont  to  be  crabbed  and  unlucky  ones.  This 
I know  to  my  cost  : I myself  have  got  well  kicked  and  tossed  in  some  of  them,  and  soundly  drubbed 
and  belaboured  in  others  ; yet,  for  all  that,  it  is  a rare  sport  to  be  watching  for  strange  chances, 
to  cross  forests,  to  search  and  beat  up  and  down  in  woods,  to  scramble  over  rocks,  to 
visit  castles,  and  to  take  up  quarters  in  an  inn  at  pleasure,  and  all  the  while  nothing 
to  pay.” 

These  were  the  discourses  with  which  Sancho  Panza  and  his  wife  Joan  entertained  one 
another,  while  the  housekeeper  and  niece  undressed  Don  Quixote,  and  put  him  into  his  bed, 
where  he  lay  looking  on  them,  but  could  not  imagine  where  he  was.  The  curate  charged 
the  niece  to  be  very  careful  and  tender  of  her  uncle,  and  to  be  very  watchful,  lest  he  should  make 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


374 

another  sally  ; telling  her  the  trouble  and  charge  he  had  been  at  to  get  him  home.  Here  the 
women  began  their  outcries  again  : for  they  were  still  almost  distracted  with  the  fear  of  losing 
their  master  and  uncle  so  soon  as  ever  he  recovered  ; which  indeed  fell  out  according  to 
their  fear. 

But  though  the  author  of  this  history  has  been  very  curious  and  diligent  in  his  inquiry 
after  Don  Quixote’s  achievements  in  his  third  expedition  in  quest  of  adventures,  yet  he  could 
never  learn  a perfect  account  of  them,  at  least  from  any  author  of  credit ; fame  and  tradition 
alone  have  preserved  some  particulars  of  them  in  the  memoirs  and  antiquities  of  La  Mancha  ; 
as,  that  after  the  knight’s  third  sally,  he  was  present  at  certain  famous  tilts  and  tournaments  made 
in  the  city  of  Saragosa,  where  he  met  with  occasions  worthy  the  exercise  of  his  sense  and 
valour  : but  how  the  knight  died,  our  author  neither  could  nor  ever  should  have  learned,  if, 
by  good  fortune,  he  had  not  met  with  an  ancient  physician,  who  had  a leaden  box  in  his  possession, 
which,  as  he  averred,  was  found  in  the  ruins  of  an  old  hermitage,  as  it  was  re-building. 

In  this  box  were  certain  scrolls  of  parchment  written  in  Gothic  characters,  but  containing 
verses  in  the  Spanish  tongue,  in  which  many  of  Don  Quixote’s  noble  acts  were  sung,  and 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso’s  beauty  celebrated,  Rozinante’s  figure  described,  and  Sancho  Panza’s 
fidelity  applauded.  They  likewise  gave  an  account  of  the  knight’s  sepulchre,  with  several 
■epitaphs  and  encomiums  on  his  life  and  conversation. 

Those  that  could  be  thoroughly  read  and  transcribed  are  here  added  by  the  faithful  author 

of  this  new  and  incomparable  history  ; desiring  no  other  recompense  or  reward  of  the  readers,  for 

all  his  labour  and  pains,  in  searching  all  the  numerous  and  old  records  of  La  Mancha  to  perfect 
this  matchless  piece,  but  that  they  will  be  pleased  to  give  it  as  much  credit  as  judicious  men 
use  to  give  to  books  of  knight-errantry,  which  are  now-a-days  so  generally  taking.  This  is  the 

utmost  of  his  ambition,  and  will  be  sufficient  satisfaction  for  him,  and  likewise  encourage  him 

to  furnish  them  with  other  matter  of  entertainment,  which,  though  possibly  not  altogether  so 
true  as  this,  yet,  it  may  be,  as  well  contrived  and  diverting. 

The  first  words  in  the  parchment  found  in  the  leaden  box  are  these  : — ■ 


Monicongo,  Academic  of  Aramgasilla,  on  Don  Quixote's 
Monument. 

EPITAPH. 

Here  lies  a doughty  knight, 

Who,  bruised,  and  ill  in  plight, 

J egg’d  over  many  a track 
On  Rozinante’s  back. 

Close  by  him  Sancho’s  laid, 

Whereat  let  none  admire  : 

He  was  a clown,  ’tis  said, 

But  ne’er  the  worse  a squire. 


Paniaguado,  Academic  of  Aramgasilla , on  Dulcinea  del 
Toboso's  Monument. 

EPITAPH. 

Here  Dulcinea  lies, 

Once  brawny,  plump,  and  lusty  ; 

But  now  to  death  a prize, 

And  somewhat  lean  and  musty. 

For  her  the  country-fry, 

Like  Quixote,  long  stood  steady  ; 

Well  might  she  carry ’t  high; 

Far  lesc  has  made  a lady. 


These  were  the  verses  that  could  be  read  : as  for  the  rest,  the  characters  being  defaced,  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


375 


almost  eaten  away,  they  were  delivered  to  a university  student,  in  order  that  he  might  give  us  his 
conjectures  concerning  their  meaning.  And  we  are  informed  that  after  many  lucubrations  and 
much  pains,  he  has  effected  the  work,  and  intends  to  oblige  the  world  with  it,  giving  us  at 
the  same  time  some  hopes  of  Don  Quixote’s  third  sally. 


Fcrse  altri  cantera  con  miqlior  filet tro. 


DON  QUIXOTE. 


PART  II. 


PROLOGUE.— TO  THE  READER. 

VERILY,  gentle  or  it  may  be  simple  reader,  with  what  impatience  must  you  now  be 
waiting  for  this  prologue,  expecting  to  find  in  it  resentments,  railings,  and  invectives 
against  the  author  of  the  second  Don  Quixote.  But  in  truth,  it  is  not  my  design  to  give  you 
that  satisfaction ; for,  though  injuries  are  apt  to  awaken  choler  in  the  humblest  breasts,  yet  in  mine 
this  rule  must  admit  of  an  exception.  You  would  have  me,  perhaps,  call  him  ass,  madman,  and 
coxcomb  ; but  I have  no  such  design.  Let  his  own  sin  be  his  punishment ; let  him  eat  it  with 
his  food,  and  much  good  may  it  do  him. 

What  I cannot  forbear  resenting  is,  that  he  upbraids  me  with  my  age,  and  with  having  lost  my 
hand,  as  if  it  were  in  my  power  to  have  hindered  time  from  passing  over  my  head,  or  as  if  my  injury 
had  been  got  in  some  drunken  quarrel  at  a tavern,  and  not  on  the  noblest  occasion  that  past  or 

48 


378 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


present  ages  have  seen,  or  future  can  ever  hope  to  see.  If  my  wounds  do  not  reflect  a lustre  in  the 
eyes  of  those  who  barely  behold  them,  they  will,  however,  be  esteemed  by  those  who  know  how  I 
came  by  them ; for  a soldier  makes  a better  figure  dead  in  battle,  than  alive  and  at  liberty  in 
running  away.  I am  so  firmly  of  this  opinion,  that  could  an  impossibility  be  rendered  practicable, 
and  the  same  opportunity  be  recalled,  I would  rather  be  again  present  in  that  prodigious  action,  than 
whole  and  sound  without  having  shared  the  glory  of  it  The  scars  a soldier  shows  in  his  face  and 
breast  are  stars  which  guide  others  to  the  haven  of  honour  and  the  desire  of  just  praise.  And  it 
must  be  observed  that  men  do  not  write  with  grey  hairs,  but  with  the  understanding  which  is 
usually  improved  by  years. 

Say  no  more  to  him,  nor  will  I say  more  to  you.  Only  I will  let  you  know  that  this  second 
part  of  “ Don  Quixote,”  which  I offer  you,  is  cut  by  the  same  hand,  and  out  of  the  same  piece,  as 
the  first  Herein  I present  you  with  Don  Quixote  at  his  full  length,  and  at  last  fairly  dead  and 
buried,  that  no  one  may  presume  to  bring  fresh  accusation  against  him,  those  already  being  enough. 
Let  it  suffice  also  that  a writer  of  some  credit  has  given  an  account  of  his  ingenious  follies, 
resolving  not  to  take  up  the  subject  any  more.  Too  much  even  of  a good  thing  lessens  it  in  our 
esteem,  and  scarcity,  even  of  an  indifferent,  makes  it  of  some  estimation. 


CHAPTER  I. 

WHAT  PASSED  BETWEEN  THE  CURATE,  THE  BARBER,  AND  DON  QUIXOTE,  CONCERNING.  HIS 

INDISPOSITION. 

CID  HAMET  BENENGELI  relates  in  the  second  part  of  this  history,  and  Don 
Quixote’s  third  sally,  that  the  curate  and  the  barber  were  almost  a whole  month  without 
paying  him  a visit,  lest,  calling  to  mind  his  former  extravagances,  he  might  take  occasion  to 
renew  them.  However,  they  failed  not  every  day  to  see  his  niece  and  his  housekeeper,  whom 
they  charged  to  treat  and  cherish  him  with  great  care,  and  to  give  him  such  diet  as  might 
be  most  proper  to  cheer  his  heart,  and  comfort  his  brain,  whence,  in  all  likelihood,  his  disorder 
wholly  proceeded.  They  answered  that  they  did  so,  and  would  continue  it  to  their  utmost 
power ; the  rather,  because  they  observed  that  sometimes  he  seemed  to  be  in  his  right  senses. 
This  news  was  very  welcome  to  the  curate  and  the  barber,  who  looked  on  this  amendment 
as  an  effect  of  their  contrivance  in  brineine  him  home  in  the  enchanted  wagon,  as  it  is  recorded 
in  the  last  chapter  of  the  first  part  of  this  most  important  and  no  less  faithful  history. 
Thereupon  they  resolved  to  pay  him  a visit,  and  make  trial  themselves  of  the  progress  of  a 
cure,  which  they  thought  almost  impossible.  They  also  agreed  not  to  speak  a word  of  knight- 
errantry,  lest  they  should  endanger  a wound  so  lately  closed,  and  so  tender.  In  short,  they 


3‘3o 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


went  to  see  him,  and  found  him  sitting  up  in  his  bed,  in  a waistcoat  of  green  baize,  and  a 
red  Toledo  cap  on  his  head  ; but  the  poor  gentleman  was  so  withered  and  wasted,  that  he 
looked  like  a mere  mummy.  He  received  them  very  civilly,  and  when  they  inquired  of  his 
health,  gave  them  an  account  of  his  condition,  expressing  himself  very  handsomely,  and  with 
a great  deal  of  judgment.  After  they  had  discoursed  a while  of  several  matters,  they  fell  at 
last  on  state  affairs  and  forms  of  government,  correcting  this  grievance  and  condemning  that ; 
reforming  one  custom,  rejecting  another,  and  establishing  new  laws,  as  if  they  had  been  the 
Lycurguses  or  Solons  of  the  age,  till  they  had  refined  and  new  modelled  the  commonwealth 
at  such  a rate,  that  they  seemed  to  have  clapped  it  into  a forge,  and  drawn  it  out  wholly 
different  from  what  it  was  before.  Don  Quixote  reasoned  with  so  much  discretion  on  every 
subject,  that  his  two  visitors  now  undoubtedly  believed  him  in  his  right  senses. 

His  niece  and  housekeeper  were  present  at  these  discourses,  and  hearing  him  give  so 
many  marks  of  sound  understanding,  thought  they  could  never  return  Heaven  sufficient  thanks 
for  so  extraordinary  a blessing.  But  the  curate,  who  wondered  at  this  strange  amendment, 
being  resolved  to  try  whether  Don  Quixote  was  perfectly  recovered,  thought  fit  to  alter  the 
resolution  he  had  taken  to  avoid  entering  into  any  discourse  of  knight-errantry,  and 
therefore  began  to  talk  to  him  of  news,  and,  among  the  rest,  that  it  was  credibly  reported 
at  court,  that  the  Grand  Seignior  was  advancing  with  a vast  army,  and  nobody  knew 
where  the  tempest  would  fall  ; that  all  Christendom  was  alarmed,  as  it  used  to  be  almost 
every  year;  and  that  the  king  was  providing  for  the  security  of  the  coasts  of  Sicily  and 
Naples,  and  the  island  of  Malta. 

“His  majesty,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “acts  the  part  of  a most  prudent  warrior,  in  putting 
his  dominions  betimes  in  a posture  of  defence,  for  by  that  precaution  he  prevents  the  surprises 
of  the  enemy  ; but  yet,  if  my  counsel  were  to  be  taken  in  this  matter,  I would  advise  another 
sort  of  preparation,  which,  I fancy,  his  majesty  little  thinks  of  at  present.” 

“Now  Heaven  assist  thee,  poor  Don  Quixote!”  said  the  curate  to  himself,  hearing  this; 
“ I am  afraid  thou  art  now  tumbling  from  the  top  of  thy  madness  to  the  very  bottom  of 
simplicity.” 

Thereupon  the  barber,  who  had  presently  made  the  same  reflection,  desired  Don  Quixote 
to  communicate  to  them  this  mighty  project  of  his ; “ for,”  said  he,  “ who  knows  but,  after 
all,  it  may  be  one  of  those  that  ought  only  to  find  a place  in  the  list  of  impertinent  admonitions 
usually  given  to  princes  ?” 

“ No,  Goodman  Shaver,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ my  projects  are  not  impertinent,  but 
highly  advisable.” 

“ I meant  no  harm  in  what  I said,  sir.”  replied  the  barber ; “ only  we  generally  find 
most  of  those  projects  that  are  offered  to  the  king  are  either  impracticable  or  whimsical,  or 
tend  to  the  detriment  of  the  kinor  or  kinofdom.” 

o o 

“ But  mine,”  said  Don  Quixote,  " is  neither  impossible  nor  ridiculous ; far  from  that,  it 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


3^J 

is  the  most  easy,  the  most  thoroughly  weighed,  and  the  most  concise,  that  ever  can  be 
devised  by  man.” 

“ Methinks  you  are  too  long  before  you  let  us  know  it,  sir,”  said  the  curate. 

“ To  deal  freely  with  you,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ I should  be  loth  to  tell  it  you  here 
now,  and  have  it  reach  the  ear  of  some  privy-councillor  to-morrow,  and  so  afterwards  see  the 
fruit  of  my  invention  reaped  by  somebody  else.” 

“As  for  me,”  said  the  barber,  “I  give  you  my  word  here,  and  in  the  face  oi  Heaven, 

* never  to  tell  it,  either  to  king,  queen,  rook,  pawn,  or  knight,  or  any  earthly  man  ’ — an  oath 
I learned  out  of  the  romance  of  the  curate,  in  the  preface  of  which  he  tells  the  king  who  it 
was  that  robbed  him  of  his  hundred  doubloons  and  his  ambling  mule.” 

“ I know  nothing  of  the  story,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ but  I have  reason  to  be  satisfied 
with  the  oath,  because  I am  confident  Master  Barber  is  an  honest  man.” 

“ Though  he  were  not,”  said  the  curate,  “ I will  be  his  surety  in  this  matter,  and  will 
engage  for  him  that  he  shall  no  more  speak  of  it  than  if  he  were  dumb,  under  what  penalty 
you  please.” 

“ And  who  shall  answer  for  you,  Master  Curate  ? ” asked  Don  Quixote. 

“ My  profession,”  replied  the  curate,  “ which  binds  me  to  secresy.” 

“ Bless  me,  then ! ” cried  Don  Quixote,  “ what  has  the  king  to  do  more  but  to  cause 
public  proclamation  to  be  made,  enjoining  all  the  knights-errant  that  are  dispersed  in  this, 
kingdom  to  make  their  personal  appearance  at  court  upon  a certain  day  ? For  though  but 
half  a dozen  should  meet,  there  may  be  some  one  among  them  who,  even  alone,  might  be 
able  to  destroy  the  whole  united  force  of  Turkey.  For  pray  observe  well  what  I say, 
gentlemen,  and  take  me  along  with  ye.  Do  you  look  upon  it  as  a new  thing  for  one 
knight-errant  alone  to  rout  an  army  of  200,000  men,  with  as  much  ease  as  if  all  of  them 

joined  together  had  but  one  throat,  or  were  made  of  sugar-paste  ? You  know  how  many 
histories  are  full  of  these  wonders.  Were  but  the  renowned  Don  Belianis  living  now,  or  some 
knight  of  the  innumerable  race  of  Amadis  de  Gaul,  and  he  met  with  these  Turks,  what  a 
woful  condition  would  they  be  in  ! However,  I hope  Providence  will  in  pity  look  down  upon 
his  people,  and  raise  up,  if  not  so  prevalent  a champion  as  those  of  former  ages,  at  least  some 
one  who  may  perhaps  rival  them  in  courage.  Heaven  knows  my  meaning  ; I say  no  more.” 

“Alas!”  said  the  niece,  hearing  this,  “I  will  lay  my  life  my  uncle  has  still  a 

hankering  after  knight-errantry.” 

“ I will  die  a knight-errant,”  cried  Don  Quixote ; “ and  so  let  the  Turks  land  where  they 
please,  how  they  please,  and  when  they  please,  and  with  all  the  forces  they  can  muster  ; once 
more  I say,  Heaven  knows  my  meaning.” 

“ Gentlemen,”  said  the  barber,  “ I beg  leave  to  tell  you  a short  story  of  something 
that  happened  at  Seville  ; indeed,  it  falls  out  as  pat  as  if  it  had  been  made  for  our  present 

purpose,  and  so  I have  a great  desire  to  tell  it.  ’ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


382 

Don  Quixote  gave  consent,  the  curate  and  the  rest  of  the  company  were  willing  to  hear  ; 
ancf  thus  the  barber  began : — 

“ A certain  person  being  distracted,  was  put  into  the  madhouse  at  Seville  by  his 

relations.  He  had  studied  the  civil  law,  and  taken  his  degrees  at  Ossuna,  though,  had  he 

taken  them  at  Salamanca,  many  are  of  opinion  that  he  would  have  been  mad  too.  After 

he  had  lived  some  years  in  this  confinement,  he  was  pleased  to  fancy  himself  in  his  right 
senses,  and,  upon  this  conceit,  wrote  to  the  archbishop,  beseeching  him,  with  great  earnestness, 
and  all  the  colour  of  reason  imaginable,  to  release  him  out  of  his  misery  by  his  authority, 
since,  by  the  mercy  of  Heaven,  he  was  wholly  freed  from  any  disorder  in  his  mind  ; only  his 
relations,  he  said,  kept  him  in  still,  to  enjoy  his  estate,  and  designed,  in  spite  of  the  truth,  to 
have  him  mad  to  his  dying  day.  The  archbishop,  persuaded  by  many  letters  which  he 
wrote  to  him  on  that  subject,  all  penned  with  sense  and  judgment,  ordered  one  of  his 

chaplains  to  inquire  of  the  governor  of  the  house  into  the  truth  of  the  matter,  and  also  to 

discourse  with  the  party,  that  he  might  set  him  at  large,  in  case  he  found  him  free  from 

distraction.  Thereupon  the  chaplain  went,  and  having  asked  the  governor  what  condition  the 
graduate  was  in,  was  answered  that  he  was  still  mad  ; that  sometimes,  indeed,  he  would  talk 
like  a man  of  excellent  sense,  but  presently  after  he  would  relapse  into  his  former 
extravagances,  which,  at  least,  balanced  all  his  rational  talk,  as  he  might  find  if  he  pleased  to 
discourse  with  him.  The  chaplain,  being  resolved  to  make  the  experiment,  went  to  the  madman, 
and  conversed  with  him  above  an  hour,  and  in  all  that  time  could  not  perceive  the  least 

disorder  in  his  brain  ; far  from  that,  he  delivered  himself  with  so  much  sedateness,  and  gave 

such  direct  and  pertinent  answers  to  every  question,  that  the  chaplain  was  obliged  to  believe 
him  sound  in  his  understanding ; nay,  he  went  so  far  as  to  make  a plausible  complaint 
against  his  keeper,  alleging  that,  for  the  lucre  of  those  presents  which  his  relations  sent  him, 
he  represented  him  to  those  who  came  to  see  him  as  one  who  was  still  distracted,  and  had 
only  now  and  then  lucid  intervals  ; but  that,  after  all,  his  greatest  enemy  was  his  estate,  the 
possession  of  which  his  relations  being  unwilling  to  resign,  they  would  not  acknowledge  the  mercy 
of  Heaven,  that  had  once  more  made  him  a rational  creature.  In  short,  he  pleaded  in  such  a 
manner,  that  the  keeper  was  suspected,  his  relations  were  censured  as  covetous  and  unnatural, 
and  he  himself  was  thought  master  of  so  much  sense,  that  the  chaplain  resolved  to  take  him  along 
with  him,  that  the  archbishop  might  be  able  to  satisfy  himself  of  the  truth  of  the  whole 
business.  In  order  to  this,  the  credulous  chaplain  desired  the  governor  to  give  the 
graduate  the  habit  which  he  had  brought  with  him  at  his  first  coming.  The  governor  used 
all  the  arguments  which  he  thought  might  dissuade  the  chaplain  from  his  design,  assuring  him 
that  the  man  was  still  frantic  and  disordered  in  his  brain.  But  he  could  not  prevail  with 
him  to  leave  the  madman  there  any  longer,  and  therefore  was  forced  to  comply  with 
the  archbishop’s  order,  and  returned  the  man  his  habit,  which  was  neat  and  decent. 

“ Having  now  put  off  his  madman’s  weeds,  and  finding  himself  in  the  garb  of  rational 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


383 


creatures,  he  begged  of  the  chaplain,  for  charity’s  sake,  to  permit  him  to  take  leave  of  his  late 
companions  in  affliction.  The  chaplain  told  him  he  would  bear  him  company,  having  a mind 
to  see  the  mad  folks  in  the  house.  So  they  went  up-stairs,  and  with  them  some  other 

people  that  stood  by.  Presently  the  graduate  came  to  a kind  of  cage,  where  lay  a man 

that  was  outrageously  mad,  though  at  that  instant  still  and  quiet ; and  addressing  himself 
to  him — ‘ Brother,’  said  he,  ‘ have  you  any  service  to  command  me  ? I am  just  going  to  my 
own  house,  thanks  be  to  Heaven,  which,  of  its  infinite  goodness  and  mercy,  has  restored  me 
to  my  senses.  Be  of  good  comfort,  and  put  your  trust  in  the  Father  of  Wisdom,  who  will,, 
I hope,  be  as  merciful  to  you  as  he  has  been  to  me.  I will  be  sure  to  send  you  some 
choice  victuals,  which  I would  have  you  eat  by  all  means ; for  I must  needs  tell  you  that 
I have  reason  to  imagine,  from  my  own  experience,  that  all  our  madness  proceeds  from 

keeping  our  stomachs  empty  of  food,  and  our  brains  full  of  wind.  Take  heart,  then,  my 

friend,  and  be  cheerful ; for  this  desponding  in  misfortunes  impairs  our  health,  and  hurries  us 
to  the  grave.’ 

“Just  over  against  that  room  lay  another  madman,  who,  having  listened  with  an  envious 
attention  to  all  this  discourse,  starts  up  from  an  old  mat  on  which  he  lay.  ‘Who  is  that,’  cried 
he  aloud,  ‘ that  is  going  away  so  well  recovered  and  so  wise  ? ’ 

“ ‘ It  is  I,  brother,  that  am  going,’  replied  the  graduate ; ‘ I have  now  no  need  to  stay 

here  any  longer  ; for  which  blessing  I can  never  cease  to  return  my  humble  and  hearty  thanks 
to  the  infinite  goodness  of  Heaven.’ 

“ ‘ Doctor,’  quoth  the  madman,  ‘ have  a care  what  you  say,  and  let  not  the  devil 
delude  you.  Stir  not  a foot,  but  keep  snug  in  your  old  lodging,  and  save  yourself  the 
vexation  of  being  brought  back  to  your  kennel.’ 

“ ‘ Nay,’  answered  the  other,  ‘ I will  warrant  you  there  will  be  no  occasion  for  my 
coming  hither  again  ; I know  I am  perfectly  well.’ 

“ ‘ You  well!’  cried  the  madman  ; ‘ we  shall  soon  see  that.  Farewell ; but  by  the  sovereign 
Jupiter,  whose  majesty  I represent  on  earth,  for  this  very  crime  alone  that  Seville  has  com- 
mitted in  setting  thee  at  large,  affirming  that  thou  art  sound  in  thy  intellects,  I will  take 

such  a severe  revenge  on  the  whole  city,  that  it  shall  be  remembered  with  terror  from  age 
to  age,  for  ever  and  aye.  Amen.  Dost  thou  know,  my  poor  brainless  thing  in  a gown,  that 
this  is  in  my  power — I that  am  the  thundering  Jove,  that  grasp  in  my  hands  the  red-hot 
bolts  of  Heaven,  with  which  I keep  the  threatened  world  in  awe,  and  might  reduce  it  all  to 
ashes  ? But  stay,  I will  commute  the  fiery  punishment,  which  this  ignorant  town  deserves, 
into  another  : I will  only  shut  up  the  flood-gates  of  the  skies,  so  that  there  shall  not  fall  a 
drop  of  rain  upon  this  city,  nor  on  all  the  neighbouring  country  round  about  it,  for  three  years 
together,  to  begin  from  the  very  moment  that  gives  date  to  this  my  inviolable  execration. 
Thou  free!  thou  well,  and  in  thy  senses!  and  I here  mad,  distempered,  and  confined!  By 
my  thunder,  I will  no  more  indulge  the  town  with  rain  than  I would  hang  myself.’ 


384 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ As  every  one  there  was  attentive  to  these  loud  and  frantic  threats,  the  graduate  turned 
to  the  chaplain,  and  taking  him  by  the  hand,  ‘ Sir,’  said  he,  ‘ let  not  that  madman’s  threats 
trouble  you.  Never  mind  him;  for,  if  he  be  Jupiter,  and  will  not  let  it  rain,  I am  Neptune, 
the  parent  and  god  of  the  waters  ; and  it  shall  rain  as  often  as  I please,  whenever  necessity 
shall  require  it.’ 

“‘However,’  answered  the  chaplain,  ‘good  Mr.  Neptune,  it  is  not  convenient  to  provoke 
Mr.  Jupiter;  therefore  be  pleased  to  stay  here  a little  longer,  and  some  other  time,  at 
convenient  leisure,  I may  chance  to  find  a better  opportunity  to  wait  on  you,  and  bring  you 
away.’ 

“ The  keeper  and  the  rest  of  the  company  could  not  forbear  laughing,  which  put  the 
chaplain  almost  out  of  countenance.  In  short,  Mr.  Neptune  was  disrobed  again,  stayed  where 
he  was,  and  there  is  an  end  of  the  story.” 

“Well,  Master  Barber.”  said  Don  Quixote,  “and  this  is  your  tale  which  you  said  came  so 
pat  to  the  present  purpose,  that  you  could  not  forbear  telling  it  ? Ah  ! Goodman  Cut-beard, 
Goodman  Cut-beard  ! how  blind  must  he  be  that  cannot  see  through  a sieve  ! Is  it  possible 
your  pragmatical  worship  should  not  know  that  the  comparisons  made  between  wit  and  wit, 
courage  and  courage,  beauty  and  beauty,  birth  and  birth,  are  always  odious  and  ill  taken  ? I 
am  not  Neptune,  the  god  of  the  waters,  good  Master  Barber  : neither  do  I pretend  to  set  up 
for  a wise  man  when  I am  not  so.  Ali  I aim  at  is  only  to  make  the  world  sensible  how 
much  they  are  to  blame,  in  not  labouring  to  revive  those  most  happy  times  in  which  the 
order  of  knight-errantry  was  in  its  full  glory.  But,  indeed,  this  degenerate  age  of  ours  is 
unworthy  the  enjoyment  of  so  great  a happiness,  which  former  ages  could  boast,  when  knights- 
errant  took  upon  themselves  the  defence  of  kingdoms,  the  protection  of  damsels,  the  relief  of 
orphans,  the  punishment  of  pride  and  oppression,  and  the  reward  of  humility.  Most  of  your 
iknights,  now-a-days,  keep  a greater  rustling  with  their  sumptuous  garments  of  damask,  gold 
^brocade,  and  other  costly  stuffs,  than  with  the  coats  of  mail,  which  they  should  glory  to 
wear.  No  knight  now  will  lie  on  the  hard  ground  in  the  open  field,  exposed  to  the  injurious 
air,  from  head  to  foot  enclosed  in  ponderous  armour.  Where  are  those  now,  who,  without 
"taking  their  feet  out  of  the  stirrups,  and  only  leaning  on  their  lances,  like  the  knights-errant  of 
old,  strive  to  disappoint  invading  sleep,  rather  than  indulge  it  ? Where  is  that  knight,  who, 
"having  first  traversed  a spacious  forest,  climbed  up  a steep  mountain,  and  journeyed  over  a 
-dismal  barren  shore,  washed  by  a turbulent,  tempestuous  sea,  and  finding  on  the  brink  a little 
skiff,  destitute  of  sails,  oars,  mast,  or  any  kind  of  tackling,  is  yet  so  bold  as  to  throw  himself 
into  the  boat  with  an  undaunted  resolution,  and  resign  himself  to  the  implacable  billows  of  the 
main,  that  now  mount  him  to  the  skies,  and  then  hurry  him  down  to  the  most  profound 
recesses  of  the  waters ; till  with  his  insuperable  courage,  surmounting  at  last  the  hurricane, 
even  in  its  greatest  fury,  he  finds  himself  above  three  thousand  leagues  from  the  place  where 
he  first  embarked,  and,  leaping  ashore  in  a remote  and  unknown  region,  meets  with  adventures 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


385 

that  deserve  to  be  recorded,  not  only  on  parchment  but  on  Corinthian  brass  ? But  now,  alas ! 
sloth  and  effeminacy  triumph  over  vigilance  and  labour  ; idleness  over  industry ; vice  over  virtue  ; 
arrogance  over  valour,  and  the  theory  of  arms  over  the  practice — that  true  practice,  which  only 
lived  and  flourished  in  those  golden  days,  and  among  those  professors  of  chivalry.  For  where 
shall  we  hear  of  a knight  more  valiant  and  more  honourable  than  the  renowned  Amadis  de 
Gaul  ? Who  more  discreet  than  Palmerin  of  England  ? Who  more  affable  and  complaisant  than 
Tirante  the  White  ? Who  more  gallant  than  Lisuarte  of  Greece  ? Who  more  cut  and  hacked, 
or  a greater  cutter  and  hacker,  than  Don  Belianis  ? Who  more  intrepid  than  Perion  of  Gaul  ? 
Who  more  daring  than  Felixmarte  of  Hyrcania  ? Who  more  sincere  than  Esplandian  ? Who 
more  courteous  than  Ciriongilio  of  Thrace  ? Who  more  brave  than  Rodomont  ? Who  more 
prudent  than  King  Sobrino?  Who  more  desperate  than  Rinaldo  ? Who  more  invincible  than 
Orlando?  And  who  more  agreeable  or  more  affable  than  Rogero,  from  whom  (according  to  Turpin, 
in  his  cosmography)  the  Dukes  of  Ferrara  are  descended  ? All  these  champions,  Master  Curate, 
and  a great  many  more  that  I could  mention,  were  knights-errant,  and  the  very  light  and  glory 
of  chivalry.  Now,  such  as  these  are  the  men  I would  advise  the  king  to  employ ; by  which 
means  his  majesty  would  be  effectually  served,  and  freed  from  a vast  expense,  and  the  Turk 
would  tear  his  very  beard  for  madness.  For  my  part,  I do  not  design  to  stay  where  I am, 
because  the  chaplain  will  not  fetch  me  out;  though,  if  Jupiter,  as  Master  Barber  said,  will 
send  no  rain,  here  stands  one  that  will  and  can  rain,  when  he  pleases.  This  I say,  that 
Goodman  Basin  here  may  know  I understand  his  meaning.” 

“ Truly,  good  sir,”  said  the  barber,  “ I meant  no  ill ; Heaven  is  my  witness,  my  intent 
was  good  : and  therefore  I hope  your  worship  will  take  nothing  amiss.” 

“ Whether  I ought  to  take  it  amiss  or  no,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ is  best  known  to 

myself.” 

“ Well,”  said  the  curate,  “ I have  hardly  spoken  a word  yet ; and  before  I go  I would 
gladly  be  eased  of  a scruple,  which  Don  Quixote’s  words,  have  started  within  me,  and  which 
grates  and  gnaws  my  conscience.” 

“ Master  Curate  may  be  free  with  me  in  greater  matters,”  said  Don  Quixote.  “ and 
so  may  well  tell  his  scruple  ; for  it  is  no  pleasure  to  have  a burden  upon  one’s  conscience.” 

“With  your  leave  then,  sir,”  said  the  curate,  “I  must  tell  you,  that  I can  by  no  means 
prevail  with  myself  to  believe  that  all  this  multitude  of  knights-errant,  which  your  worship  has 
mentioned,  were  ever  real  men  of  this  world,  and  true,  substantial  flesh  and  blood ; but  rather 
that  whatever  is  said  of  them  is  all  fable  and  fiction,  lies  and  dreams,  related  by  men  rather 
half  asleep  than  awake.” 

" This  is  indeed  another  mistake,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ into  which  many  have  been  led, 

who  do  not  believe  j there  ever  were  any  of  those  knights  in  the  world.  And  in  several 

companies  I have  many  times  had  occasion  to  vindicate  that  manifest  truth  from  the  almost 
universal  error  that  is  entertained  to  its  prejudice.  Sometimes  my  success  has  not  been 


386 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


answerable  to  the  goodness  of  my  cause,  though  at  others  it  has ; being  supported  on  the 
shoulders  of  truth,  which  is  so  apparent,  that  I dare  almost  say  I have  seen  Amadis  de  Gaul 
with  these  very  eyes.  He  was  a tall,  comely  personage,  of  a good  and  lively  complexion;  his 
beard  well  ordered,  though  black ; his  aspect  at  once  awful  and  affable : a man  of  few  words, 
slowly  provoked,  and  quickly  pacified.  And  as  I have  given  you  the  picture  of  Amadis,  I 
fancy  I could  readily  delineate  all  the  knights-errant  that  are  to  be  met  with  in  history  : for  once 
apprehending,  as  I do,  that  they  were  just  such  as  their  histories  report  them,  it  is  an  easy  matter 
to  guess  their  features,  statures,  and  complexions,  by  the  rules  of  ordinary  philosophy,  and  the 
account  we  have  of  their  achievements  and  various  humours.” 

“ Pray,  good  sir,”  quoth  the  barber,  “how  tall  then  might  the  giant  Morgante  be?” 

“ Whether  there  ever  were  giants  or  no,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ is  a point  much 

controverted  among  the  learned.  However,  Holy  Writ,  that  cannot  deviate  an  atom  from 
truth,  informs  us  there  were  some,  of  which  we  have  an  instance  in  the  account  it  gives  us 
of  that  huge  Philistine,  Goliath,  who  was  seven  cubits  and  a half  high,  which  is  a prodigious 
stature.  Besides,  in  Sicily  thigh-bones  and  shoulder-bones  have  been  found  of  so  immense  a 
size,  that  from  thence  of  necessity  we  must  conclude,  by  the  certain  rules  of  geometry,  that  the 
men  to  whom  they  belonged  were  giants,  as  big  as  huge  steeples.  But,  for  all  this,  I cannot 
positively  tell  you  how  big  Morgante  was;  though  I am  apt  to  believe  he  was  not  very  tall,  and 
that  which  makes  me  inclinable  to  believe  so  is,  that  in  the  history  which  gives  us  a particular 
account  of  his  exploits  we  read  that  he  often  used  to  lie  under  a roof.  Now,  if  there  were  any 
house  that  could  hold  him,  it  is  evident  he  could  not  be  of  an  immense  bigness.” 

“ That  must  be  granted,”  said  the  curate,  who  took  some  pleasure  in  hearing  him  talk  at 

that  strange  rate,  and  therefore  asked  him  what  his  sentiments  were  of  the  faces  of  Rinaldo 
of  Montalban,  Orlando,  and  the  rest  of  the  twelve  peers  of  France,  who  had  all  of  them  been 
knights-errant. 

“ As  for  Rinaldo,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I dare  venture  to  say  he  was  broad-faced,  of  a 
ruddy  complexion,  his  eyes  sparkling  and  large,  very  captious,  extremely  choleric,  and  a favourer 
of  robbers  and  profligate  fellows.  As  for  Rolando,  Rotolando,  or  Orlando  (for  all  these  several 
names  are  given  him  in  history),  I am  of  opinion,  and  assure  myself,  that  he  was  of  the  middling 
stature,  broad-shouldered,  somewhat  bandy-legged,  brown-visaged,  red-bearded,  surly-looked,  no 
talker,  but  yet  very  civil  and  good-humoured.” 

“If  Orlando  was  no  handsomer  than  you  tell  us,”  said  the  curate,  “no  wonder  the  fair 
Angelica  slighted  him,  and  preferred  the  brisk,  pretty,  charming  young  Moor  before  him ; 
neither  was  she  to  blame  to  neglect  the  one  for  the  other.” 

“ That  Angelica,  Mr.  Curate,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ was  a dissolute  damsel,  a wild,  flirting, 
wanton  creature,  and  somewhat  capricious  to  boot.  She  left  the  world  as  full  of  her  impertinences 
as  of  the  fame  of  her  beauty.  She  despised  a thousand  princes,  a thousand  of  the  most  valiant 
and  discreet  knights  in  the  world,  and  took  up  with  a paltry  page,  that  had  neither  estate 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


387 

nor  honour,  and  who  could  lay  claim  to  no  other  reputation  but  that  of  being  grateful,  when  he  gave 
a proof  of  his  affection  to  his  friend  Dardinel.  And,  indeed,  even  that  great  extoller  of  her  beauty, 
the  celebrated  Ariosto,  either  not  daring,  or  rather  not  desiring,  to  rehearse  what  happened  to 
Angelica,  after  her  disgraceful  intrigue  (which  passages  doubtless  could  not  be  very  much  to  her 
reputation),  that  very  Ariosto,  I say,  dropped  her  character  quite,  and  left  her  with  these  lines  : 

‘ Perhaps  some  better  lyre  shall  sing, 

How  love  and  she  made  him  Cataya’s  king.’ 

And  without  doubt  that  was  a kind  of  a prophecy ; for  the  denomination  of  Vates,  which  signifies 
a prophet,  is  common  to  those  whom  we  otherwise  call  poets.  Accordingly,  indeed,  this  truth  has 
been  made  evident ; for  in  process  of  time,  a famous  Andalusian  poet  wept  for  her,  and  celebrated 
her  tears  in  verse ; and  another  eminent  and  choice  poet  of  Castile  made  her  beauty  his  theme.” 

“ But  pray,  sir,”  said  the  barber,  “ among  so  many  poets  that  have  written  in  that  lady 
Angelica’s  praise,  did  none  of  them  ever  write  a satire  upon  her  ? ” 

“ Had  Sacripante  or  Orlando  been  poets,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I make  no  question  but 
they  would  have  mentioned  her  to  some  purpose  ; for  there  is  nothing  more  common  than  for 
poets,  when  disdained  by  their  feigned  or  false  mistresses,  to  revenge  themselves  with  satires  and 
lampoons — a proceeding  certainly  unworthy  a generous  spirit.  However,  I never  yet  did  hear 
of  any  defamatory  verses  on  the  Lady  Angelica,  though  she  made  so  much  mischief  in  the 
world.” 

“ That  is  a miracle  indeed,”  cried  the  curate.  But  here  they  were  interrupted  by  a noise  below 
in  the  yard,  where  the  niece  and  the  housekeeper,  who  had  left  them  some  time  before,  were  very 
obstreperous,  which  made  them  all  hasten  to  know  what  was  the  matter. 


CHAPTER  II. 


OF  THE  MEMORABLE  QUARREL  BETWEEN  SANCHO  PANZA  AND  DON  QUIXOTE’S  NIECE  AND  HOUSEKEEPER  ; 

WITH  OTHER  PLEASANT  PASSAGES. 

THE  history  informs  us  that  the  occasion  of  the  noise  which  the  niece  and  housekeeper 
made  was  Sancho  Panza’s  endeavouring  to  force  his  way  into  the  house,  while  they  at  the 
same  time  held  the  door  against  him  to  keep  him  out. 

“ What  have  you  to  do  in  this  house  ? ” cried  one  of  them.  “ Go,  go,  keep  to  your  own  home, 
friend.  It  is  all  because  of  you,  and  nobody  else,  that  my  poor  master  is  distracted,  debauched, 
and  carried  a-rambling  all  the  country  over.” 

“ What  next  ? ” replied  Sancho ; “it  is  I that  am  distracted,  debauched,  and  carried  a-rambling, 
and  not  your  master!  It  was  he  led  me  the  jaunt;  so  you  are  wide  of  the  matter.  It  was  he 
that  inveigled  me  from  my  house  and  home  with  his  talk,  promising  he  would  give  me  an  island, 
which  is  not  come  yet,  and  I still  wait  for." 

“ Mayest  thou  be  filled  with  thy  islands !”  cried  the  niece.  “And  what  are  your  islands? 
anything  to  eat,  ha  ? ” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

“ Hold  you  there ! ” answered  Sancho,  “ they  are  not  to  eat,  but  to  govern  ; and  better 
governments  than  any  four  cities,  or  as  many  heads  of  the  king’s  best  corporations.” 

“For  all  that,”  quoth  the  housekeeper,  “ thou  comest  not  within  these  doors,  thou  bundle 
of  wickedness,  and  sackful  of  roguery ! Go,  govern  your  own  house ! Work,  you  lazy  rogue ! 
To  the  plough,  and  never  trouble  your  head  about  islands.” 

The  curate  and  barber  had  a great  deal  of  pleasure  in  hearing  this  dialogue.  But  Don 
Quixote  fearing  lest  Sancho  should  not  keep  within  bounds,  but  blunder  out  some  discoveries 
prejudicial  to  his  reputation,  while  he  ripped  up  a pack  of  little  foolish  slander,  called  him  in, 
and  enjoined  the  women  to  be  silent.  Sancho  entered,  and  the  curate  and  the  barber  took  leave 
of  Don  Quixote,  despairing  of  his  cure,  considering  how  deep  his  folly  was  rooted  in  his  brain, 
and  how  bewitched  he  was  with  his  silly  knight-errantry. 

“Well,  neighbour,”  said  the  curate  to  the  barber,  “now  do  I expect  nothing  better  of  our 
gentleman  than  to  hear  shortly  he  is  gone  upon  another  ramble.” 

“Nor  I neither,”  answered  the  barber;  “but  I do  not  wonder  so  much  at  the  knight’s 
madness  as  at  the  silliness  of  the  squire,  who  thinks  himself  so  sure  of  the  island,  that  I fancy 
all  the  art  of  man  can  never  beat  it  out  of  his  skull.” 

“Heaven  mend  them!”  said  the  curate.  “In  the  meantime  let  us  observe  them;  we 
shall  see  what  will  be  the  event  of  the  extravagance  of  the  knight,  and  the  foolishness  of 
the  squire.  One  would  think  they  had  been  cast  in  one  mould ; and  indeed  the  master’s 
madness  without  the  man’s  impertinence  were  not  worth  a rush.” 

“ Right,”  said  the  barber.  “ And  now  they  are  together,  I long  to  know  what  passes  between 
them.  I do  not  doubt  but  the  two  women  will  be  able  to  give  an  account  of  that,  for  they 
are  not  of  a temper  to  withstand  the  temptation  of  listening.” 

Meanwhile,  Don  Quixote  having  locked  himself  up  with  his  squire,  they  had  the  following 
colloquy : — 

“ I take  it  very  ill,”  said  he,  “ Sancho,  that  you  should  report,  as  you  do,  that  I enticed 
you  out  of  your  paltry  hut,  when  you  know  that  I myself  left  my  own  mansion-house.  We  set  out 
together,  continued  together,  and  travelled  together.  We  ran  the  same  fortune,  and  the  same 
hazards  together.  If  thou  hast  been  tossed  in  a blanket  once,  I have  been  battered  and 
bruised  a hundred  times ; and  that  is  all  the  advantage  I have  had  above  thee.” 

“ And  reason  good,”  answered  Sancho ; “ for  you  yourself  used  to  say  that  ill-luck  and 
cross-bitings  are  oftener  to  light  on  the  knights  than  on  the  squires.” 

“Thou  art  mistaken,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “for  the  proverb  will  tell  thee  that 
quando  caput  dolet , &c,” 

“ Nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I understand  no  language  but  my  own.” 

“ I mean,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  when  the  head  aches,  all  the  members  partake  of  the 
pain.  So  then,  as  I am  thy  master,  I am  also  thy  head ; and  as  thou  art  my  servant,  thou 
art  one  of  my  members  ; it  follows,  therefore,  that  I cannot  be  sensible  of  pain,  but  thou,  too, 


390 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


oughtest  to  be  affected  with  it ; and  likewise,  that  nothing  of  ill  can  befall  thee,  but  I must 
bear  a share.” 

“ Right,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  when  I,  as  a limb  of  you,  was  tossed  in  a blanket,  my  head 
was  pleased  to  stay  at  the  other  side  of  the  wall,  and  saw  me  frisking  in  the  air,  without 
taking  part  in  my  bodily  trouble.” 

“ Thou  art  greatly  mistaken,  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ if  thou  thinkest  I was  not 
sensible  of  thy  sufferings.  For  I was  then  more  tortured  in  mind  than  thou  wast  tormented  in 
body ; but  let  us  adjourn  this  discourse  till  some  other  time,  which  doubtless  will  afford  us  an 
opportunity  to  redress  past  grievances.  I pray  thee  tell  me  now,  what  does  the  town  say  of 
me  ? What  do  the  neighbours,  what  do  the  people  think  of  me  ? What  say  the  gentry,  and 
the  better  sort  ? How  do  the  knights  discourse  of  my  valour,  my  high  feats  of  arms,  and  my 
courteous  behaviour  ? What  thoughts  do  they  entertain  of  my  design  to  raise  from  the  grave 
of  oblivion  the  order  of  knight-errantry,  and  restore  it  to  the  world  ? In  short,  tell  me  freely 
and  sincerely  whatever  thou  hast  heard,  neither  enlarged  with  flattering  commendations  or 
lessened  by  any  omission  of  my  dispraise  ; for  it  is  the  duty  of  faithful  servants  to  lay  truth 
before  their  masters  in  its  honourable  nakedness.  And  I would  have  thee  know,  Sancho,  that  if 
it  were  to  appear  before  princes  in  its  native  simplicity,  and  disrobed  of  the  odious  disguise  of 
flattery,  we  should  see  happier  days ; this  age  would  be  changed  into  an  age  of  gold,  and  former 
times,  compared  to  this,  would  be  called  the  iron  age.  Remember  this,  and  be  advised,  that  I may 
hear  thee  impart  a faithful  account  of  these  matters.” 

“ That  I will,  with  all  my  heart,”  answered  Sancho,  “ so  your  worship  will  not  take  it  amiss, 
if  I tell  what  I have  heard,  just  as  I heard  it,  neither  better  nor  worse.” 

“ Nothing  shall  provoke  me  to  anger,”  answered  Don  Quixote  ; ° speak  freely,  and  without 
any  circumlocution.” 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ first  and  foremost  you  are  to  know  that  the  common  people 
take  you  for  a downright  madman,  and  me  for  one  who  has  not  much  good  in  his  brains.  The 
gentry  say,  that  not  being  content  to  keep  within  the  bounds  of  gentility,  you  have  taken  upon  you 
to  be  a Don,  and  set  up  for  a knight  and  a right  worshipful,  with  a small  vineyard  and  two  acres 
of  land,  a tatter  before  and  another  behind.  The  knights,  forsooth,  take  pepper  in  the  nose,  and 
say  they  do  not  like  to  have  your  small  gentry  think  themselves  as  good  as  they,  especially  your 
old-fashioned  country  squires,  who  mend  and  lamp-black  their  own  shoes,  and  darn  their  old  black 
stockings  themselves  with  a needleful  of  green  silk.” 

“ All  this  does  not  affect  me,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ for  I always  wear  good  clothes,  and  never 
have  them  patched.  It  is  true,  they  may  be  a little  torn  sometimes,  but  that  is  more  with  my 
armour  than  by  long  wearing.” 

“ As  for  what  relates  to  your  prowess,”  said  Sancho,  proceeding,  “ together  with  your  feats  of 
arms,  your  courteous  behaviour,  and  your  undertaking,  there  are  several  opinions  about  it.  Some 
say,  ‘ He  is  mad,  but  a pleasant  sort  of  a madman  others  say,  ‘ He  is  valiant,  but  his  luck  is  naught;' 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


391 

others  say,  ‘He  is  courteous,  but  sometimes  rude.’  And  thus  they  pass  so  many  verdicts  upon  you, 
and  take  us  both  so  to  pieces,  that  they  leave  neither  you  nor  me  a sound  bone  in  our  skins.” 

“ Consider,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  the  more  eminently  virtue  shines,  the  more  it 
is  exposed  to  the  persecution  of  envy.  Few  or  none  of  those  famous  heroes  of  antiquity  could 
escape  the  venomous  arrows  of  calumny.  Julius  Caesar,  that  most  courageous,  prudent,  and  valiant 
captain,  was  marked  as  being  ambitious,  and  neither  so  clean  in  his  apparel  nor  in  his  manners  as 
he  ought  to  have  been.  Alexander,  whose  mighty  deeds  gained  him  the  title  of  ‘ the  Great,’ 
was  charged  with  being  addicted  to  drunkenness.  Hercules,  after  his  many  heroic  labours,  was 
accused  of  voluptuousness  and  effeminacy.  Don  Galaor,  the  brother  of  Amadis  de  Gaul,  was 
taxed  with  being  quarrelsome,  and  his  brother  himself  with  being  a whining,  blubbering  lover. 
And,  therefore,  my  Sancho,  since  so  many  worthies  have  not  been  free  from  the  assaults  of 
detraction,  well  may  I be  content  to  bear  my  share  of  that  epidemical  calamity,  if  it  be  no  more 
than  thou  hast  told  me  now.” 

“ Ah  ! ” quoth  Sancho,  “ there  is  the  business  ; but  they  don’t  stop  here.” 

“Why,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ what  can  they  say  more  ?” 

“More!”  cried  Sancho;  “you  have  yet  to  hear  the  worst.  You  have  had  nothing  yet 
but  apple-pies  and  sugar-plums.  But  if  you  have  a mind  to  hear  all  those  slanders  and  back- 
bitings that  are  about  town  concerning  your  worship,  I will  bring  you  one  anon  that  shall  tell 
you  every  kind  of  thing  that  is  said  of  you,  without  bating  you  an  ace  on  it ! Bartholomew 
Carrasco’s  son,  I mean,  who  has  been  a scholard  at  the  ’versity  of  Salamanca,  and  is  got  to  be  a 
bachelor  of  arts.  He  came  last  night,  you  must  know,  and  as  I went  to  bid  him  welcome  home,  he 
told  me  that  your  worship’s  history  is  already  in  books,  by  the  name  of  the  most  renowned  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha.  He  says  I am  in  too,  by  my  own  name  of  Sancho  Panza,  and  also  my 
Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso ; nay,  and  many  things  that  passed  betwixt  nobody  but  us  two,  which  I 
was  amazed  to  hear,  and  could  not  imagine  how  he  that  set  them  down  could  have  come  by  the 
knowledge  of  them.” 

“ I dare  assure  thee,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  the  author  of  our  history  must  be  some 
sage  enchanter,  and  one  of  those  from  whose  universal  knowledge  none  of  the  things  which  they 
have  a mind  to  record  can  be  concealed.” 

“ How  should  he  be  a sage  and  an  enchanter  ? ” quoth  Sancho.  “ The  bachelor  Samson 
Carrasco — for  that  is  the  name  of  my  tale’s  master — tells  me  he  that  wrote  the  history  is  called 
Cid  Hamet  Bereno-enas.” 

o 

“ That  is  a Moorish  name,”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“ Like  enough,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “your  Moors  are  great  lovers  of  berengenas.” 

“ Certainly,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  art  mistaken  in  the  surname  of  that  cid;  that 
lord,  I mean;  for  cid,  in  Arabic,  signifies  lord.” 

“ That  may  very  well  be,”  answered  Sancho ; “ but  if  you  will  have  me  fetch  you  the  young 
scholard,  I will  fly  to  bring  him  hither.” 


392 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Truly,  friend, "said  Don  Quixote,  “thou  wilt  do  me  a particular  kindness:  for  what  thou 
hast  already  told  me  has  so  filled  me  with  doubts  and  expectations,  that  T shall  not  eat  a bit  that 
will  do  me  good  till  I am  informed  of  the  whole  matter.” 

“ I will  go  and  fetch  him,”  said  Sancho.  With  that,  leaving  his  master,  he  went  to  look  for 
the  bachelor,  and  having  brought  him  along  with  him  a while  after,  they  all  had  a very  pleasant 
dialogue. 


CHAPTER  III. 

THE  PLEASANT  DISCOURSE  BETWEEN  DON  QUIXOTE,  SANCHO  PANZA,  AND  THE  BACHELOR  SAMSON  CARRASCO. 

DON  QUIXOTE  remained  strangely  pensive,  expecting  the  bachelor  Carrasco,  from  whom 

he  hoped  to  hear  news  of  himself,  recorded  and  printed  in  a book,  as  Sancho  had 

informed  him.  He  could  not  be  persuaded  that  there  was  such  a history  extant,  while  yet  the 

blood  of  those  enemies  he  had  cut  off  had  scarce  done  reeking  on  the  blade  of  his  sword  ; so  that 

they  could  not  have  already  finished  and  printed  the  history  of  his  mighty  feats  of  arms.  However, 

at  last  he  concluded  that  some  learned  sage  had,  by  the  way  of  enchantment,  been  able  to  commit 

them  to  the  press,  either  as  a friend,  to  extol  his  heroic  achievements  above  the  noblest 

performances  of  the  most  famous  knights-errant,  or  as  an  enemy,  to  sully  and  annihilate  the 

lustre  of  his  great  exploits,  and  debase  them  below  the  most  inferior  actions  that  ever  were 

mentioned  of  any  of  the  meanest  squires.  “ Though,”  thought  he  to  himself,  “ the  actions  of 

squires  were  never  yet  recorded ; and,  after  all,  if  there  were  such  a book  printed,  since  it  was  the 

history  of  a knight-errant,  it  could  not  choose  but  be  pompous,  lofty,  magnificent,  and  authentic.” 

This  thought  yielded  him  a while  some  small  consolation  ; but  then  he  relapsed  into 

melancholic  doubts  and  anxieties  when  he  considered  that  the  author  had  used  the  title 

of  cid,  and  consequently  must  be  a Moor — a nation  from  whom  no  truth  could  be  expected, 
50 


394 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


they  all  being  given  to  impose  on  others  with  lies  and  fabulous  stories,  to  falsify  and  counterfeit, 
and  very  fond  of  their  own  chimeras. 

He  was  not  less  uneasy  lest  that  writer  should  have  been  too  lavish  in  treating  of  his  amours, 
to  the  prejudice  of  his  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso’s  honour.  He  earnestly  wished  that  he  might 
find  his  own  inviolable  fidelity  celebrated  in  the  history,  and  the  reservedness  which  he  had 
always  so  religiously  observed  in  his  passion  for  her ; slighting  queens,  empresses,  and  damsels 
of  every  degree  for  her  sake.  Sancho  and  Carrasco  found  him  thus  agitated  and  perplexed 
with  a thousand  melancholic  fancies,  which  yet  did  not  hinder  him  from  receiving  the  stranger 
with  a great  deal  of  civility. 

This  bachelor,  though  his  name  was  Samson,  was  none  of  the  biggest  in  body,  but  a very 
great  man  at  all  manner  of  drollery  ; he  had  a pale  and  bad  complexion,  but  good  sense.  He  was 
about  four-and-twenty  years  of  age,  round  visaged,  flat  nosed,  and  wide  mouthed — all  signs  of  a 
malicious  disposition,  and  of  one  that  would  delight  in  nothing  more  than  in  making  sport  for  himself 
by  ridiculing  others,  as  he  plainly  discovered  when  he  saw  Don  Quixote.  For,  falling  on  his  knees 
before  him,  “ Admit  me  to  kiss  your  honour’s  hand,”  cried  he,  “ most  noble  Don  Quixote  ; for  by 
the  habit  of  St.  Peter,  which  I wear — though,  indeed,  I have  as  yet  taken  but  the  four  first  of  the 
holy  orders — you  are  certainly  one  of  the  most  renowned  knights-errant  that  ever  was,  or  ever  will 
be,  through  the  whole  extent  of  the  habitable  globe.  Blest  may  the  sage  Cid  Hamet  Benengeli  be 
for  enriching  the  world  with  the  history  of  your  mighty  deeds  ; and  more  than  blest  that  curious 
virtuoso,  who  took  care>  to  have  it  translated  out  of  the  Arabic  into  our  vulgar  tongue,  for  the 
universal  entertainment  of  mankind  ! ” 

“ Sir,"  said  Don  Quixote,  making  him  rise,  “ is  it  then  possible  that  my  history  is  extant,  and 
that  it  was  a Moor,  and  one  of  the  sages,  that  penned  it  ? ” 

“It  is  so  notorious  a truth,”  said  the  bachelor,  “ that  I do  not  in  the  least  doubt  but  at  this 
day  there  have  already  been  published  above  twelve  thousand  copies  of  it.  Portugal,  Barcelona, 
and  Valencia,  where  they  have  been  printed,  can  witness  that,  if  there  were  occasion.  It  is  said 
that  it  is  also  now  in  the  press  at  Antwerp.  And  I verily  believe  there  is  scarce  a language  into 
which  it  is  not  to  be  translated.” 

“ Truly,  sir,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ one  of  the  things  that  ought  to  yield  the  greatest  satisfaction 
to  a person  of  eminent  virtue,  is  to  live  to  see  himself  in  good  reputation  in  the  world,  and  his 
actions  published  in  print.  I say  in  good  reputation ; for  otherwise  there  is  no  death  but  would  be 
preferable  to  such  a life.” 

“ As  for  a good  name  and  reputation,”  replied  Carrasco,  “ your  worship  has  gained  the  palm 
from  all  the  knights-errant  that  ever  lived  : for  both  the  Arabian,  in  his  history,  and  the  Christian, 
in  his  version,  have  been  very  industrious  to  do  justice  to  your  character,  your  peculiar  gallantry, 
your  intrepidity  and  greatness  of  spirit  in  confronting  danger,  your  constancy  in  adversities,  your 
patience  in  suffering  wounds  and  afflictions,  your  modesty  and  continence  in  that  amour,  so  very 
platonic,  between  your  worship  and  my  Lady  Donna  Dulcinea  del  d oboso.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


395 


“ Heyday  ! ” cried  Sancho  ; “ I never  heard  her  called  so  before.  That  donna  is  a new 
name ; for  she  used  to  be  called  only  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  : in  that,  the  history 
is  out  already.” 

“ That  is  no  material  objection,”  said  Carrasco. 

“ No,  certainly,”  added  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  pray,  good  Mr.  Bachelor,  on  which  of  all  my 
adventures  does  the  history  seem  to  lay  the  greatest  stress  of  remark  ? ” 

“ As  to  that,”  answered  Carrasco,  “ the  opinions  of  men  are  divided  according  to  their  taste  : 
some  cry  up  the  adventure  of  the  windmills,  which  appeared  to  your  worship  so  many  Briareuses 
and  giants.  Some  are  for  that  of  the  fulling-mills  ; others  stand  up  for  the  description  of  the  two 
armies,  that  afterwards  proved  two  flocks  of  sheep.  Others  prize  most  the  adventure  of  the 
dead  corpse  that  was  carrying  to  Segovia.  One  says,  that  none  of  them  can  compare  with  that  or 
the  galley-slaves  ; another,  that  none  can  stand  in  competition  with  the  adventure  of  the 
Benedictine  giants  and  the  valorous  Biscayner.” 

“Pray,  Mr.  Bachelor,”  quoth  Sancho,  “is  there  nothing  said  of  that  of  the  Yanguesians,  an 
please  you,  when  our  precious  Rozinante  was  so  mauled  ? ” 

“ There  is  not  the  least  thing  omitted,”  answered  Carrasco.  “ The  sage  has  inserted  all, 
with  the  nicest  punctuality  imaginable  ; so  much  as  the  capers  which  honest  Sancho  fetched 
in  the  blanket.” 

“ I fetched  none  in  the  blanket,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  in  the  air ; and  that,  too, 
oftener  than  I could  have  wished,  and  more  to  my  sorrow.” 

“In  my  opinion,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ there  is  no  manner  of  history  in  the  world  where 
you  shall  not  find  variety  of  fortune,  much  less  any  story  of  knight-errantry,  where  a man 
cannot  always  be  sure  of  good  success.” 

“However,”  said  Carrasco,  “some  who  have  read  your  history  wish  that  the  author  had 
spared  himself  the  pains  of  registering  some  of  that  infinite  number  of  drubs  which  the  noble 
Don  Quixote  received.” 

“ There  lies  the  truth  of  the  history,”  quoth  Sancho. 

“ Those  things  in  human  equity,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ might  very  well  have  been  omitted  ; 
for  actions  that  neither  impair  nor  alter  the  history  ought  rather  to  be  buried  in  silence  than 
related,  if  they  redound  to  the  discredit  of  the  hero  of  the  history.  Certainly  zEneas  was  never 
so  pious  as  Virgil  represents  him,  nor  Ulysses  so  prudent  as  he  is  made  by  Homer.” 

“ I am  of  your  opinion,”  said  Carrasco ; “ but  it  is  one  thing  to  write  like  a poet,  and  another 
thing  to  write  like  an  historian.  It  is  sufficient  for  the  first  to  deliver  matters  as  they  ought  to 
have  been,  whereas  the  last  must  relate  them  as  they  were  really  transacted,  without  adding  or 
omitting  anything  upon  any  pretence  whatever.” 

“Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “if  this  same  Moorish  lord  be  once  got  into  the  road  of  truth,  a 
hundred  to  one  but  among  my  master’s  rib-roastings  he  has  not  forgot  mine  : for  they  never  took 
measure  of  his  worship’s  shoulders,  but  they  were  pleased  to  do  as  much  for  my  whole  body : but 


390 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


it  was  no  wonder ; for  it  is  his  own  rule  that  if  once  his  head  aches,  every  limb  must  suffer 

I 

ft 

too. 

“ Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “you  are  an  arch,  unlucky  knave.  Upon  my  honour  you  can 
find  memory  when  you  have  a mind  to  have  it.” 

“ Nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ though  I were  minded  to  forget  the  rubs  and  drubs  I have  suffered, 
the  bumps  and  tokens  that  are  yet  fresh  on  my  ribs  would  not  let  me.” 

“ Hold  your  tongue,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  let  the  learned  bachelor  proceed,  that  I may 
know  what  the  history  says  of  me.” 

“ And  of  me  too,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ for  they  tell  me  I am  one  of  the  top  parsons  in  it.” 

“ Persons,  you  should  say,  Sancho,”  said  Carrasco,  “ and  not  parsons.” 

“Heyday!”  quoth  Sancho;  “have  we  got  another  corrector  of  hard  words?  If  this  be  the 
trade,  we  shall  never  have  done.” 

“ I assure  you,”  said  Carrasco,  “ that  you  are  the  second  person  in  the  history,  honest 
Sancho  ; nay,  and  some  there  are  who  had  rather  hear  you  talk  than  the  best  there  ; though  some 
there  are  again  that  will  say  you  were  horribly  credulous,  to  flatter  yourself  with  having  the 
government  of  that  island  which  your  master  here  present  promised  you.” 

“ While  there  is  life  there  is  hope,”  said  Don  Quixote  : “ when  Sancho  is  grown  mature  with 
time  and  experience,  he  may  be  better  qualified  for  a government  than  he  is  yet.” 

“ Well,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ if  I be  not  fit  to  govern  an  island  at  these  years,  I shall 
never  be  a governor,  though  I live  to  the  years  of  Methusalem ; but  there  the  mischief  lies  : we 
have  brains  enough,  but  we  want  the  island.” 

“ Come,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ hope  for  the  best;  trust  in  Providence  ; all  will  be  well, 
and,  perhaps,  better  than  you  imagine : but  know,  there  is  not  a leaf  on  any  tree  that  can  be  moved 
without  the  permission  of  Heaven.” 

“ That  is  very  true,"  said  Carrasco;  “ and  I dare  say  Sancho  shall  not  want  a thousand  islands 
to  govern,  much  less  one  ; that  is,  if  it  be  Heaven’s  will.” 

“ Why  not  ? ” quoth  Sancho  ; “ I have  seen  governors  in  my  time  who,  to  my  thinking,  could 
not  come  up  to  me  passing  the  sole  of  my  shoes,  and  yet,  forsooth,  they  called  them  ‘ your 
honour,’  and  they  eat  their  victuals  all  in  silver.” 

“ Ay,"  said  Carrasco,  “ but  these  were  none  of  your  governors  of  islands,  but  of  other  easy 
governments  : why,  man.  these  ought,  at  least,  to  know  their  grammar.” 

“Trust  me  for  that,”  quoth  Sancho;  “give  me  but  a grey  mare  once,  and  I shall  know 
her  well  enough,  I'll  warrant  ye.  But  leaving  the  government  in  the  hands  of  him  that  will 
best  provide  for  me,  I must  tell  you,  Master  Bachelor  Samson  Carrasco,  I am  very  glad  that, 
as  your  author  has  not  forgot  me.  so  he  has  not  given  an  ill  character  of  me  ; for  by  the  faith 
of  a trusty  squire,  had  he  said  anything  that  did  not  become  an  old  Christian  as  I am,  I 
had  rung  him  such  a peal  that  the  deaf  should  have  heard  me.” 

“ That  were  a miracle,”  said  Carrasco. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


397 


“ Miracle  or  no  miracle,”  cried  Sancho,  “ let  every  man  take  care  how  he  talks,  or  how 
he  writes  of  other  men,  and  not  set  down  at  random,  higgle-de-piggledy,  whatever  comes  into 
his  noddle.” 

“ Now,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I perceive  that  he  who  attempted  to  write  my  history  is  not 
one  of  the  sages,  but  some  ignorant,  prating  fool,  who  would  needs  be  meddling,  and  set  up 
for  a scribbler  without  the  least  grain  of  judgment  to  help  him  out ; and  so  he  has  done  like 
Orbaneja,  the  painter  of  Ubeda,  who,  being  asked  what  he  painted,  answered,  ‘As  it  may  hit;’ 
and  when  he  had  scrawled  out  a mis-shapen  cock,  was  forced  to  write  underneath,  in  Gothic 
letters,  ‘ This  is  a cock.’  At  this  rate,  I believe,  he  has  performed  in  my  history,  so  that  it  will 
require  a commentary  to  explain  it.” 

“ Not  at  all,”  answered  Carrasco  ; “ for  he  has  made  everything  so  plain,  that  there  is  not 
the  least  thing  in  it  but  what  any  one  may  understand.  Children  handle  it,  youngsters  read  it, 
grown  men  understand  it,  and  old  people  applaud  it.  In  short,  it  is  universally  so  thumbed,  so 
gleaned,  so  studied,  and  so  known,  that  if  the  people  do  but  see  a lean  horse  they  presently  cry, 

‘ There  goes  Rozinante.’  But  none  apply  themselves  to  the  reading  of  it  more  than  your  pages  ; 
there  is  never  a nobleman’s  ante-chamber  where  you  shall  not  find  a ‘Don  Quixote.’  No  sooner  has 
one  laid  it  down  but  another  takes  it  up.  One  asks  for  it  here,  and  there  it  is  snatched  up  by 
another.  In  a word,  it  is  esteemed  the  most  pleasant  and  least  dangerous  diversion  that  ever 
was  seen,  as  being  a book  that  does  not  betray  the  least  indecent  expression,  nor  so  much  as  a' 
profane  thought.” 

“To  write  after  another  manner,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ were  not  to  write  truth,  but  falsehood  ; 
and  those  historians  who  are  guilty  of  that  should  be  punished  like  those  who  counterfeit  the  lawful 
coin.  But  I cannot  conceive  what  could  move  the  author  to  stuff  his  history  with  foreign  novels 
and  adventures,  not  at  all  to  the  purpose,  while  there  was  a sufficient  number  of  my  own  to  have 
exercised  his  pen.  But,  without  doubt,  we  may  apply  the  proverb,  ‘With  hay  or  with  straw,’  &c.  : 
for  verily,  had  he  altogether  confined  himself  to  my  thoughts,  my  sighs,  my  tears,  my  laudable 
designs,  my  adventures,  he  might  yet  have  swelled  his  book  to  as  great  a bulk,  at  least,  as  all 
Tostatus’s  works.  I have  also  reason  to  believe,  Mr.  Bachelor,  that  to  compile  a history,  or  write 
any  book  whatsoever,  is  a more  difficult  task  than  men  imagine.  There  is  need  of  a vast  judgment, 
and  a ripe  understanding.  It  belongs  to  none  but  great  geniuses  to  express  themselves  with  grace 
and  elegance,  and  to  draw  the  manners  and  actions  of  others  to  the  life.  The  most  artful  part  in  a 
play  is  the  fool’s,  and  therefore  a fool  must  not  attempt  to  write  it.  On  the  other  side,  history  is  in  a 
manner  a sacred  thing,  so  far  as  it  contains  truth  ; for  where  truth  is,  the  supreme  Father  of  it 
may  also  be  said  to  be,  at  least,  in  as  much  as  concerns  truth.  However,  there  are  men  that  will 
make  you  books,  and  turn  them  loose  into  the  world,  with  as  much  dispatch  as  they  would  do 
a dish  of  fritters.” 

“ There  is  no  book  so  bad,”  said  the  bachelor,  “ but  something  good  may  be  found  in  it.” 

“ That  is  true,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ yet  it  is  quite  a common  thing  for  men  who  have  gained 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


398 

a very  great  reputation  by  their  writings,  before  they  printed  them,  to  lose  it  afterwards  quite,  or  at 
least  the  greatest  part.” 

“ The  reason  is  plain,”  said  Carrasco ; “ their  faults  are  more  easily  discovered  after  their 
books  are  printed,  as  being  then  more  read,  and  more  narrowly  examined,  especially  if  the 
author  had  been  much  cried  up  before,  for  then  the  severity  of  the  scrutiny  is  so  much  the 
greater.  All  those  that  have  raised  themselves  a name  by  their  ingenuity — great  poets  and 
celebrated  historians — are  most  commonly,  if  not  always,  envied  by  a sort  of  men  who  delight 
in  censuring  the  writings  of  others,  though  they  never  publish  any  of  their  own.” 

“ That  is  no  wonder,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ for  there  are  many  divines  that  would  make 
but  very  dull  preachers,  and  yet  are  very  quick  at  finding  faults  and  superfluities  in  other 
men’s  sermons.” 

“ All  this  is  truth,”  replied  Carrasco  ; “ and  therefore  I could  wish  these  censurers  would  be 
more  merciful  and  less  scrupulous,  and  not  dwell  ungenerously  upon  small  spots,  that  are  in  a 
manner  but  so  many  atoms  on  the  face  of  the  clear  sun,  which  they  murmur  at.  And  if  aliatiancLo 
bonus  dormitat  Homerus , let  them  consider  how  many  nights  he  kept  himself  awake  to  bring  ms 
noble  works  to  light  as  little  darkened  with  defects  as  might  be.  Nay,  many  times  it  may 
happen  that  what  is  censured  for  a fault  is  rather  an  ornament,  like  moles  that  sometimes  add 
to  the  beauty  of  the  face.  And  when  all  is  said,  he  that  publishes  a book  runs  a very  great 
hazard,  since  nothing  can  be  more  impossible  than  to  compose  one  that  may  secure  the 
approbation  of  every  reader.” 

“ Sure,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  which  treats  of  me  can  have  pleased  but  few.” 

“Quite  contrary,”  said  Carrasco;  “for  as  Stultorum  infinities  est  numerus,  so  an  infinite 
number  have  admired  your  history.  But  some  there  are  who  have  taxed  the  author  with  want 
of  memory  or  sincerity,  because  he  forgot  to  give  an  account  of  who  it  was  that  stole  Sancho’s 
Dapple,  for  that  particular  is  not  mentioned  there : only  we  find,  by  the  story,  that  it  was  stolen ; 
and  yet,  by-and-by,  we  find  him  riding  the  same  ass  again,  without  any  previous  light  given 
us  into  the  matter.  Then  they  say  that  the  author  forgot  to  tell  the  reader  what  Sancho  did 
with  those  hundred  pieces  of  gold  he  found  in  the  portmanteau  in  the  Sierra  Morena ; for 
there  is  not  a word  said  of  them  more ; and  many  people  have  a great  wish  to  know  what 
he  did  with  them,  and  how  he  spent  them;  which  is  one  of  the  most  material  points  in  which 
the  work  is  defective.” 

“ Master  Samson,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I am  not  now  in  a condition  to  call  up  the  accounts ; for 
I am  taken  ill  of  a sudden  with  such  a fainting  feeling,  and  find  myself  so  mawkish, 
that  if  I do  not  see  and  alter  it  with  a sup  or  two  of  good  drink,  I shall  waste  like 
the  snuff  of  a farthing  candle.  I have  that  cordial  at  home,  and  my  wife  stays  for  me.  When 
I have  had  my  dinner,  I am  for  you,  and  will  satisfy  you.  or  any  man  that  wears  a head, 
about  anything  in  the  world,  either  as  to  the  loss  of  the  ass  or  the  laying  out  of  those  same 
pieces  of  gold.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


399 


This  said,  without  a word  more,  or  waiting  for  a reply,  away  he  went.  Don  Quixote 
desired  and  entreated  the  bachelor  to  stay  and  do  penance  with  him.  The  bachelor  accepted 
his  invitation  and  stayed.  A couple  of  pigeons  were  got  ready  to  mend  their  commons.  All 
dinner  time  they  discoursed  about  knight-errantry,  Carrasco  humouring  him  all  the  while.  After 
they  had  slept  out  the  heat  of  the  day,  Sancho  came  back,  and  they  renewed  their  former 
discourse. 


SANCHO  PANZA  SATISFIES  THE  BACHELOR,  SAMSON  CARRASCO,  IN  HIS  DOUBTS  AND  QUERIES  ; WITH 

OTHER  PASSAGES  FIT  TO  BE  KNOWN  AND  RELATED. 


SANCHO  returned  to  Don  Quixote’s  house,  and  beginning  again  where  he  left  off, 
“ Now,”  quoth  he,  “ as  to  what  Master  Samson  wanted  to  know — that  is,  when,  where, 
and  by  whom  my  ass  was  stolen.  I answer  that  the  very  night  that  we  marched  off  to  the 
Sierra  Morena,  to  avoid  the  hue  and  cry  of  the  holy  brotherhood,  after  the  rueful  adventure  of  the 
galley  slaves,  and  that  of  the  dead  body  that  was  carrying  to  Segovia,  my  master  and  I slunk  into 
a wood,  where  he,  leaning  on  his  lance,  and  I,  without  alighting  from  Dapple,  both  sadly  bruised 
and  tired  with  our  late  skirmishes,  fell  fast  asleep,  and  slept  as  soundly  as  if  we  had  four 
feather-beds  under  us  ; but  I especially  was  as  serious  at  it  as  any  dormouse  ; so  that  the 
thief,  whoever  he  was,  had  leisure  enough  to  clap  four  stakes  under  the  four  corners  of  the 
pack-saddle,  and  then,  leading  away  the  ass  from  between  my  legs,  without  being  perceived  by  me 
in  the  least,  there  he  fairly  left  me  mounted.” 

“This  is  no  new  thing,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “nor  is  it  difficult  to  be  done.  With  the  same 
stratagem  Sacrepante  had  his  steed  stolen  from  under  him  by  that  notorious  thief,  Brunelo,  at 
the  siere  of  Albraca.” 


402 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ It  was  broad  day,”  said  Sancho,  going  on,  “ when  I,  half  awake  and  half  asleep,  began  to 
stretch  myself  in  my  pack-saddle  ; but  with  my  stirring,  down  came  the  stakes,  and  down  came  I 
flat,  with  a confounded  blow,  on  the  ground.  Presently  I looked  for  my  ass,  but  no  ass  was 
to  be  found.  Oh,  how  thick  the  tears  trickled  from  my  eyes,  and  what  a piteous  moan  I made!  If 
he  that  made  our  history  has  forgot  to  set  it  down  word  for  word,  I would  not  give  a rush  for  his 
book,  I will  tell  him  that.  Some  time  after — I cannot  just  tell  you  how  long  it  was — as  we  were 
going  with  my  lady,  the  Princess  Micomicona,  I knew  my  ass  again,  and  he  that  rid  him,  though 

he  went  like  a gipsy;  and  who  should  it  be,  do  you  think,  but  Gines  de  Passamonte,  that  son  of 

mischief,  that  crack  rope,  whom  my  master  and  I saved  from  the  galleys  ?” 

“ The  mistake  does  not  lie  there,”  said  Carrasco  ; “ but  that  the  author  sets  you  upon  the 
same  ass  that  was  lost,  before  he  gives  an  account  of  his  being  found.” 

“ As  to  that,”  replied  Sancho,  “ I do  not  know  very  well  what  to  say.  If  the  man  made  a 
blunder,  who  can  help  it  ? But,  mayhap,  it  was  a fault  of  the  printer.” 

“ I make  no  question  of  that,”  said  Carrasco ; “ but  pray  what  became  of  the  hundred 

pieces?  Were  they  sunk?” 

“ I fairly  spent  them  on  myself,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ and  on  my  wife  and  children  : they  helped 
me  to  lay  my  spouse’s  clack,  and  made  her  take  so  patiently  my  rambling  and  trotting  after  my 
master,  Don  Quixote ; for  had  I come  back  with  my  pockets  empty,  and  without  my  ass,  I must 
have  looked  for  a rueful  greeting.  And  now.  if  you  have  any  more  to  say  to  me,  here  am  I,  ready 
to  answer  the  king  himself ; for  what  has  anybody  to  meddle  or  make  whether  I found  or  found 
not,  or  spent  or  spent  not  ? If  the  knocks  and  swaddlings  that  have  been  bestowed  on  my  carcase 
in  our  jaunts  were  to  be  rated  but  at  three  maravedis  apiece,  and  I to  be  satisfied  ready  cash  for 
every  one,  a hundred  pieces  of  gold  more  would  not  pay  for  half  of  them ; and  therefore  let 
every  man  lay  his  finger  on  his  mouth,  and  not  run  hand  over  head,  and  mistake  black  for  white, 
and  white  for  black ; for  every  man  is  as  Heaven  made  him,  and  sometimes  a great  deal  worse.” 

“ Well,”  said  the  bachelor,  “if  the  author  prints  another  edition  of  the  history,  I will  take 
special  care  he  shall  not  forget  to  insert  what  honest  Sancho  has  said,  which  will  make  the  book 
as  good  again.” 

“ Pray,  good  Mr.  Bachelor,”  asked  Don  Quixote,  “ are  there  any  emendations  requisite  to 
be  made  in  this  history  ? ” 

“ Some  there  are,”  answered  Carrasco,  “ but  none  of  so  much  importance  as  those  already 
mentioned.” 

“ Perhaps  the  author  promises  a second  part  ? ” said  Don  Quixote. 

“ He  does,”  said  Carrasco;  “ but  he  says  he  cannot  find  it,  neither  can  he  discover  who  has  it  : 
so  that  we  doubt  whether  it  will  come  out  or  no,  as  well  for  this  reason  as  because  some  people  say 
that  second  parts  are  never  worth  anything;  others  cry,  ‘ There  is  enough  of  Don  Quixote  already 
however,  many  of  those  that  love  mirth  better  than  melancholy  cry  out,  ‘ Give  us  more  Quixotery, 
let  but  Don  Quixote  appear,  and  Sancho  talk,  be  it  what  it  will,  we  are  satisfied.’  ” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


403 


“ And  how  stands  the  author  affected?”  said  the  knight. 

“ Truly,”  answered  Carrasco,  “as  soon  as  ever  he  can  find  out  the  history,  which  he  is  now 
looking  for  with  all  imaginable  industry,  he  is  resolved  to  send  it  immediately  to  the  press,  though 
more  for  his  own  profit  than  through  any  ambition  of  applause.” 

“ What !”  quoth  Sancho,  “ does  he  design  to  do  it  to  get  a penny  by  it  ? Nay,  then  we  are 
like  to  have  a rare  history  indeed ; we  shall  have  him  botch  and  whip  it  up,  like  your  tailors  on 
Easter  Eve,  and  give  us  a huddle  of  fiim  flams  that  will  never  hang  together ; for  your  hasty  work 
can  never  be  done  as  it  should  be.  Let  Mr.  Moor  take  care  how  he  goes  to  work : for,  my  life  for 
his,  I and  my  master  will  stock  him  with  such  a heap  of  stuff,  in  matter  of  adventures  and  odd 
chances,  that  he  will  not  have  enough  only  to  write  a second  part,  but  a hundred.  The  poor 
fellow,  belike,  thinks  we  do  nothing  but  sleep  on  a hay-mow;  but  let  us  once  put  foot  into  the 
stirrup,  and  he  will  see  what  we  are  about : this,  at  least,  I will  be  bold  to  say,  that  if  my  master 
would  be  ruled  by  me,  we  had  been  in  the  field  by  this  time,  undoing  of  misdeeds  and  righting  of 
wrongs,  as  good  knights-errant  used  to  do.” 

Scarce  had  Sancho  made  an  end  of  his  discourse,  when  Rozinante’s  neighing  reached  their 
ears.  Don  Quixote  took  it  for  a lucky  omen,  and  resolved  to  take  another  turn  within  three  or  four 
days.  He  discovered  his  resolution  to  the  bachelor,  and  consulted  him  to  know  which  way  to 
steer  his  course.  The  bachelor  advised  him  to  take  the  road  of  Saragosa,  in  the  kingdom  of 
Aragon,  a solemn  tournament  being  shortly  to  be  performed  at  that  city  on  St.  George's  Festival ; 
where,  by  worsting  all  the  Aragonian  champions,  he  might  win  immortal  honour,  since  to  out-tilt 
them  would  be  to  out-rival  all  the  knights  in  the  universe.  He  applauded  his  noble  resolution,  but 
withal  admonished  him  not  to  be  so  desperate  in  exposing  himself  to  dangers,  since  his  life  was  not 
his  own,  but  theirs  who  in  distress  stood  in  want  of  his  assistance  and  protection. 

“ That  is  it  now,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  makes  me  sometimes  ready  to  run  mad,  Mr.  Bachelor; 
for  my  master  makes  no  more  to  set  upon  a hundred  armed  men,  than  a young  hungry  tailor  to 
swallow  half  a dozen  of  cucumbers.  Bless  me ! Mr.  Bachelor,  there  is  a time  to  retreat,  as  well 
as  a time  to  advance.  ‘Saint  Jago  and  forward.  Spain!’  must  not  always  be  the  cry;  for  I have 
heard  somebody  say,  and,  if  I am  not  mistaken,  it  was  my  master  himself,  that  valour  lies  just 
between  rashness  and  cow-heartedness ; and  if  it  be  so,  I would  not  have  him  run  away  without 
there  is  a reason  for  it,  nor  would  I have  him  fall  on  when  there  is  no  good  to  be 
got  by  it.  But  above  all  things  I would  have  him  to  know,  if  he  has  a mind  I should 
go  with  him,  that  the  bargain  is  he  shall  fight  for  us  both,  and  that  I am  tied  to  nothing 
but  to  look  after  him  and  his  victuals  and  clothes : so  far  as  this  comes  to,  I will  fetch  and  carry 
like  any  water-spaniel;  but  to  think  I will  lug  out  my  sword,  though  it  be  but  against  poor  rogues, 
and  sorry  shirks,  and  hedge-birds,  y’troth  I must  beg  his  diversion.  For  my  part,  Mr.  Bachelor,  it 
is  not  the  fame  of  being  thought  valiant  that  I aim  at,  but  that  of  being  deemed  the  very  best  and 
trustiest  squire  that  ever  followed  the  heels  of  a knight-errant.  And  if,  after  all  my  services,  my 
master  Don  Quixote  will  be  so  kind  as  to  give  me  one  of  those  many  islands  which  his  worship 


404 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


says  he  shall  light  on,  I shall  be  much  beholden  to  him;  but  if  he  does  not,  why  then  I am  born, 
do  ye  see,  and  one  man  must  not  live  to  rely  on  another,  but  on  his  Maker.  Mayhaps  the  bread 
I shall  eat  without  government  will  go  down  more  savourily  than  if  I were  a governor;  and  what 
do  1 know  but  that  some  one  is  providing  me  one  of  those  governments  for  a stumbling-block,  that 
I may  stumble  and  fall,  and  so  break  my  jaws,  and  knock  out  my  butter-teeth?  I was  born  Sancho, 
and  Sancho  I mean  to  die;  and  yet  for  all  that,  if  fairly  and  squarely,  with  little  trouble  and  less 
danger,  Heaven  would  bestow  on  me  an  island,  or  some  such  like  matter,  I am  no  such  fool  neither, 
do  ye  see,  as  to  refuse  a good  thing  when  it  is  offered  me.  No;  I remember  the  old  saying, 
‘When  the  ass  is  given  thee,  run  and  take  him  by  the  halter;  and  when  good  luck  knocks  at  the 
door,  let  him  in,  and  keep  him  there.’  ” 

“ My  friend  Sancho,”  said  Carrasco,  “ you  have  spoken  like  any  university  professor. 
However,  trust  in  Heaven’s  bounty,  and  the  noble  Don  Quixote,  and  he  may  not  only  give  thee 
an  island,  but  even  a kingdom.” 

“One  as  likely  as  the  other,”  quoth  Sancho;  “and  yet  let  me  tell  you,  Mr.  Bachelor,  the 
kingdom  which  my  master  is  to  give  me  you  shall  not  find  thrown  into  an  old  sack  ; for  I have 
felt  my  own  pulse,  and  find  myself  sound  enough  to  rule  kingdoms  and  govern  islands;  I have  told 
my  master  as  much  before  now.” 

“ Have  a care,  Sancho,”  said  Carrasco ; “ honours  change  manners ; perhaps,  when  you  come  to 
be  a governor,  you  will  scarce  know  your  own  mother.” 

“ This,”  said  Sancho,  “ may  happen  to  those  that  were  born  in  a ditch,  but  not  to  those  whose 
souls  are  covered,  as  mine  is,  four  fingers  thick  with  good  old  Christian  fat.  No  ; do  but  think 
how  good-conditioned  I be,  and  then  you  need  not  fear  I should  do  badly  to  any  one.” 

“ Grant  it,  good  Heaven  ! ” said  Don  Quixote  ; “ we  shall  see  when  the  government  comes, 
and  methinks  I have  it  already  before  my  eyes.” 

After  this  he  desired  the  bachelor,  if  he  were  a poet,  to  oblige  him  with  some  verses  on  his 
designed  departure  from  his  mistress,  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  ; every  verse  to  begin  with  one  of  the 
letters  of  her  name,  so  that,  joining  every  first  letter  of  every  verse  together,  they  might  make 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso.  The  bachelor  told  him  that  though  he  were  none  of  the  famous  poets  of 
Spain,  who,  they  say,  were  but  three  and  a half,  he  would  endeavour  to  make  that  acrostic ; 
though  he  was  sensible  this  would  be  no  easy  task,  there  being  seventeen  letters  in  the  name ; so 
that  if  he  made  four  stanzas  of  four  verses  apiece,  there  would  be  a letter  too  much;  and  if  he  made 
his  stanzas  of  five  lines,  so  as  to  make  a double  Decima  or  a Redondilla,  there  would  be  three 
letters  too  little;  however,  he  would  strive  to  drown  a letter,  and  so  take  in  the  whole  name  in 
sixteen  verses.” 

“ Let  it  be  so  by  any  means,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ for  no  woman  will  believe  that  those  verses 
were  made  for  her  where  her  name  is  not  plainly  to  be  discerned.” 

After  this  it  was  agreed  they  should  set  out  within  a week.  Don  Quixote  charged  the 
bachelor  not  to  speak  a word  of  all  this,  especially  to  the  curate,  Mr.  Nicolas  the  barber,  his  niece. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


405 


and  his  housekeeper,  lest  they  should  obstruct  his  honourable  and  valorous  design.  Carrasco  gave 
him  his  word,  and  having  desired  Don  Quixote  to  send  an  account  of  his  good  or  bad  success 
at  his  conveniency,  immediately  took  his  leave,  and  Sancho  went  to  get  everything  ready  for 
his  journey. 


CHAPTER  V. 

TILE  WISE  AND  PLEASANT  DIALOGUE  BETWEEN  SANCHO  PANZA  AND  TERESA  PANZA,  HIS  WIFE  : TOGETHER 

WITH  OTHER  PASSAGES  WORTHY  OF  HAPPY  MEMORY. 

^T^HE  translator  of  this  history,  being  come  to  this  fifth  chapter,  thinks  fit  to  inform  the 
reader  that  he  holds  it  to  be  apocryphal,  because  it  introduces  Sancho  speaking  in 
another  style  than  could  be  expected  from  his  slender  capacity,  and  saying  things  of  so  refined  a 
nature  that  it  seems  impossible  he  could  do  it.  However,  he  thought  himself  obliged  to  render  it 
in  our  tongue,  to  maintain  the  character  of  a faithful  translator,  and  therefore  he  goes  on  in 
this  manner. 

Sancho  came  home  so  cheerful  and  so  merry,  that  his  wife  read  his  joy  in  his  looks  a bow- 
shot off.  Being  impatient  to  know  the  cause,  “ My  dear,”  cried  she,  “ what  makes  you  so 
merry  i 

“ 1 should  be  more  merry,  my  dear,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ would  but  Heaven  so  order  it  that  I 
were  not  so  well  pleased  as  I seem  to  be.” 

“You  speak  riddles,  husband,”  quoth  she;  “I  don’t  know  what  you  mean  by  saying  you 
should  be  more  merry  if  you  were  not  so  well  pleased  ; for,  though  I am  silly  enough,  I cannot 
think  a man  can  take  pleasure  in  not  being  pleased.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


407 


“ Look  ye,  Teresa,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I am  merry  because  I am  once  more  going  to  serve  my 
master,  Don  Quixote,  who  is  resolved  to  have  another  frolic,  and  go  a-hunting  after  adventures,  and 
I must  go  with  him  ; for  he  needs  must  run  whom  fortune  drives.  What  should  I lie  starving 
at  home  for  ? The  hopes  of  finding  another  parcel  of  gold  like  that  we  spent  rejoices  my  heart : 
but  then  it  grieves  me  to  leave  thee,  and  those  sweet  babes  of  ours  ; and  would  Heaven  but  be 
pleased ' to  let  me  live  at  home  dry-shod,  in  peace  and  quietness,  without  gadding  over  hill 
and  dale,  through  brambles  and  briars,  why  then  it  is  a clear  case  that  my  mirth  would  be  more 
firm  and  sound,  since  my  present  gladness  is  mingled  with  a sorrow  to  part  with  thee.  And  so  I 
think  I have  made  out  what  I have  said,  that  I should  be  merrier  if  I did  not  seem  so  well  pleased.” 

“ Look  you,  Sancho,”  quoth  the  wife,  “ ever  since  you  have  been  a member  of  a knight-errant, 
you  talk  so  round  about  the  bush  that  nobody  can  understand  you.” 

"It  is  enough,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  he  understands  me  who  understands  all  things  ; and  so 
scatter  no  more  words  about  it,  spouse.  But  be  sure  you  look  carefully  after  Dapple  for  these  three 
days,  that  he  may  be  in  good  case  and  fit  to  bear  arms  ; double  his  pittance,  look  out  his  pannel 
and  all  his  harness,  and  let  everything  be  set  to  rights  ; for  we  are  not  going  to  a wedding,  but  to 
roam  about  the  world,  and  to  have  now  and  then  a set-to  with  giants,  and  dragons,  and  hobgoblins, 
and  to  hear  nothing  but  hissing,  and  yelling,  and  roaring,  and  howling,  and  bellowing  ; all  which  would 
be  but  sugar-plums,  if  we  were  not  to  meet  with  the  Yanguesian  carriers  and  enchanted  Moors.” 

“ Nay,  as  for  that,  husband,”  quoth  Teresa,  “ I am  apt  enough  to  think  you  squire-errants 

I 

don’t  eat  their  masters’  bread  for  nothing  ; and  therefore  it  shall  be  my  daily  prayer,  that  you  may 
quickly  be  freed  from  that  plaguy  trouble.” 

“Troth,  wife,”  quoth  Sancho,  “were  I not  in  hopes  to  see  myself  ere  long  governor  of  an 
island,  o’  my  conscience  I should  drop  down  dead  on  the  spot.” 

“ Not  so,”  quoth  the  wife.  “ Do  thou  live,  and  let  all  the  governments  in  the  world  go. 
Thou  earnest  into  the  world  without  government,  thou  hast  lived  hitherto  without  government, 
and  thou  mayest  be  carried  to  thy  long  home  without  government,  when  it  shall  please  the  Lord. 
How  many  people  in  this  world  live  without  government,  yet  do  well  enough,  and  are  well  looked 
upon ! There  is  no  sauce  in  the  world  like  hunger,  and  as  the  poor  never  want  that,  they  always 
eat  with  a good  stomach.  But  look  ye,  my  precious,  if  it  should  be  thy  good  luck  to  get  a 
government,  pr’ythee  do  not  forget  thy  wife  and  children.  Take  notice  that  little  Sancho  is  already 
full  fifteen,  and  it  is  high  time  he  went  to  school,  if  his  uncle  the  abbot  mean  to  leave  him  something 
in  the  Church.  Then  there  is  Mary  Sancho,  your  daughter;  I dare  say  she  longs  as  much  to  be 
well  married  as  you  do  for  a government.” 

“ I’  good  sooth  ! wife,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ if  it  be  Heaven’s  blessed  will  that  I get  anything  by 
government,  I will  see  and  match  Mary  Sancho  so  well,  that  she  shall,  at  least,  be  called  ‘my  lady.’” 

“ By  no  means,  husband,”  cried  the  wife ; “ let  her  match  with  her  match : if  from  clouted  shoes 
you  set  her  upon  high  heels,  and  from  her  coarse  russet  coat  you  put  her  into  a fardingale,  and  from 
plain  ‘Moll’  and  ‘thee’  and  ‘thou,’  go  to  call  her  ‘madam,’  and  ‘your  ladyship,’  the  poor  girl  won’t 


^03  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

know  how  to  behave  herself,  but  will  every  foot  make  a thousand  blunders,  and  show  her 
homespun  country  breeding.” 

“Tush!  fool,”  answered  Sancho  ; “it  will  be  but  two  or  three  years’  ’prenticeship;  and  then 
you  will  see  how  strangely  she  will  alter  ; ‘ your  ladyship’  and  keeping  of  state  will  become  her,  as 
if  they  had  been  made  for  her  ; and  suppose  they  should  not,  what  is  it  to  anybody  ? Let  her 
be  but  a lady,  and  let  what  will  happen.” 

“ Good  Sancho,”  quoth  the  wife,  “ don’t  look  above  yourself;  I say,  keep  to  the  proverb,  that 
says,  ‘ Birds  of  a feather  flock  together.’  It  would  be  a fine  thing,  e’trow ! for  us  to  go  and  throw 
away  our  child  on  one  of  your  lordlings,  or  right  worshipfuls,  who,  when  the  toy  should  take  him 
in  the  head,  would  find  new  names  for  her,  and  call  her  ‘country  Joan,’  ‘plough -jobber’s  beam,’  and 
‘spinner’s  web.’  No,  no,  husband,  I have  not  bred  the  girl  up  as  I have  done  to  throw  her  away  at 
that  rate,  I will  assure  ye.  Do  thee  but  bring  home  money,  and  leave  me  to  get  her  a husband 
Why,  there  is  Lope  Tocho,  old  Joan  Tocho’s  son,  a hale,  jolly  young  fellow,  and  one  whom  we  all 
know  ; I have  observed  he  casts  a sheep’s  eye  at  the  wench  ; he  is  one  of  our  inches,  and  will  be  a 
good  match  for  her ; then  we  shall  always  have  her  under  our  wings,  and  be  all  as  one,  father  and 
mother,  children  and  grandchild,  and  Heaven’s  peace  and  blessing  will  always  be  with  us.  But  never 
talk  to  me  of  marrying  her  at  your  courts  and  great  men’s  houses,  where  she  will  understand 
nobody,  and  nobody  will  understand  her.” 

“ Why,  thou  good-for-nothing,”  cried  Sancho,  “ thou  wife  of  Barabbas,  why  dost  thou  hinder 
me  from  marrying  my  daughter  to  one  whose  grandchildren  may  be  called  ‘ your  honour  ’ 
and  ‘ your  lordship  ? ’ Have  I not  always  heard  my  betters  say,  that 

‘ He  who  will  not  when  he  may. 

When  he  will  he  shall  have  nay? 

When  good  luck  is  knocking  at  our  door,  is  it  fit  to  shut  him  out  ? No,  no,  let  us  ‘ make  hay  while 
the  sun  shines,’  and  spread  our  sails  before  this  prosperous  gale.” 

[This  mode  of  allocution,  and  the  following  huddle  of  reflections  and  apophthegms,  said  to  have 
been  spoken  by  Sancho,  made  the  translator  of  this  history  say  he  held  this  chapter  apocryphal.] 

“ Canst  thou  not  perceive,  thou  senseless  animal,”  said  Sancho,  going  on,  “ that  I ought  to 
venture  over  head  and  ears  to  light  on  some  good,  gainful  government,  that  may  free  our  ankles 
from  the  clogs  of  necessity,  and  marry  Mary  Sancho  to  whom  we  please  ? Go  to,  let  us  have  no 
more  of  this  ; little  Sancho  shall  be  a countess  in  spite  of  thy  teeth,  I say.” 

“ Well,  well,  husband,”  quoth  the  wife,  “ have  a care  what  you  say,  for  I fear  me  these  high 
kicks  will  be  my  Molly’s  undoing.  Yet  do  what  you  will,  make  her  a duchess  or  a princess,  but  I 
will  never  give  my  consent.  Look  ye,  yoke-fellow,  for  my  part  I ever  love  to  see  everything  upon 
the  square,  and  cannot  abide  to  see  folks  take  upon  them  when  they  should  not.  I was  christened 
plain  Teresa  without  any  fiddle-faddle,  or  addition  of  ‘madam,’  or  ‘your  ladyship.’  My  father’s  name 
was  Cascajo  ; and  because  I married  you  they  call  me  Teresa  Panza,  though  indeed  by  right  I 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA 


409 


should  be  called  Teresa  Cascajo.  But  where  the  kings  are,  there  are  the  laws,  and  I am  e’en 
contented  with  that  name  without  a flourish  before  it,  to  make  it  longer  and  more  tedious  than  it  is 
already;  neither  will  I make  myself  anybody’s  laughing-stock.  I will  give  them  no  cause  to  cry 
when  they  see  me  go  like  a countess,  or  a governor’s  madam,  ‘Look,  look,  how  Madam  Hog-wash 
struts  along  ! It  was  but  the  other  day  she'd  tug  ye  a distaff,  capped  with  hemp,  from  morning  till 
night,  and  would  go  to  mass  with  her  coat  over  her  head  for  want  of  a hood  ; yet  now,  look  how 
she  goes  in  her  fardingale,  and  her  rich  trimmings  and  fallals,  no  less  than  a whole  tradesman’s  shop 
about  her  back,  as  if  everybody  did  not  know  her.’  No,  husband,  if  it  please  Heaven  but  to  keep 
me  in  my  seven  senses,  or  my  five,  or  as  many  as  I have,  I will  take  care  to  tie  up  people’s  tongues 
from  setting  me  out  at  this  rate.  You  may  go,  and  be  a governor,  or  an  islander,  and  look  as  big 
as  bull-beef  an  you  will  ; but  by  my  grandmother’s  daughter,  neither  I nor  my  girl  will  budge  a foot 
from  our  thatched  house,  for  the  proverb  says— 

‘ The  wife  that  expects  to  have  a good  name, 

Is  always  at  home,  as  if  she  were  lame; 

And  the  maid  that  is  honest,  her  chiefest  delight 
Is  still  to  be  doing  from  morning  to  night.’ 


March  you  and  your  Don  Quixote  together,  to  your  islands  and  adventures,  and  leave  us  here  to 
our  sorry  fortune  ; I will  warrant  you  Heaven  will  better  it,  if  we  live  as  we  ought  to  do.  I wonder, 
though,  who  made  him  a Don ; neither  his  father  nor  his  grandsi.re  ever  had  that  feather  in 
their  caps.” 

“ Heaven  help  thee,  woman  ! ” quoth  Sancho  ; “ what  a heap  of  stuff  hast  thou  twisted 
together  without  head  or  tail ! What  have  thy  Cascajos,  thy  fardingales  and  fallals,  thy  old  saws, 
and  all  this  tale  of  a roasted  horse,  to  do  with  what  I have  said  ? Hark  thee  me,  Gammer 
Addlepate — for  I can  find  no  better  name  for  thee,  since  thou  art  such  a blind  buzzard  as  to  miss  my 
meaning,  and  stand  in  thy  own  light — should  I have  told  thee  that  my  girl  was  to  throw  herself  head 
foremost  from  the  top  of  some  steeple,  or  to  trot  about  the  world  like  a gipsy,  as  the  Infanta 
Donna  Urraca  did,  then  thou  mightest  have  some  reason  not  to  be  of  my  mind.  But  if,  in  the 
twinkling  of  an  eye,  and  while  one  might  toss  a pancake,  I can  equip  her  with  a Don  and  a 
Ladyship  ; if  I fetch  her  out  of  her  straw,  to  sit  under  a stately  bed’s  tester,  and  squat  her  down  on 
more  velvet  cushions  than  there  are  Almohadas  in  Morocco,  why  shouldest  thou  be  against  it.  and 
not  be  pleased  with  what  pleases  me  ? ” 

“ I do  not  understand  you,  husband,”  quoth  Teresa  ; “ even  follow  your  own  inventions,  and 
do  not  puzzle  my  brains  with  your  harangues  and  retricks.  If  you  are  so  devolved  to  do  as 
ye  say ” 

“ Resolved,  you  should  say,  wife,"  quoth  Sancho,  “ and  not  devolved.” 

“ Pry  thee,  husband,”  said  Teresa,  “let  us  have  no  words  about  that  matter  : I speak  as 

Heaven  is  pleased  I should  ; and  for  hard  words,  I give  my  share  to  the  curate.  All  I have 

to  say  now  is  this,  if  you  hold  still  in  the  mind  of  being  a governor,  pray  even  take  your  son 
52 


J.10 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Sancho  along  with  you,  and  henceforth  train  him  up  to  your  trade  of  governing  ; for  it  is  but 
fitting  that  the  son  should  be  brought  up  to  the  father’s  calling.” 

“ When  once  I am  governor."  quoth  Sancho,  “ I will  send  for  him  by  the  post,  and  I will 
send  thee  money  withal  ; for  I dare  say  I shall  want  none;  there  never  wants  those  that  will 
lend  governors  money  when  they  have  none.  But  then  be  sure  you  clothe  the  boy  so,  that  he 
may  look  not  like  what  he  is,  but  like  what  he  is  to  be." 

“Send  you  but  money,”  quoth  Teresa,  “and  I will  make  him  as  fine  as  a May -day 
garland.” 

“ So  then,  wife,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I suppose  we  are  agreed  that  our  Moll  shall  be  a 
countess.” 

“ The  day  I see  her  a countess,”  quoth  Teresa,  “ I reckon  I lay  her  in  her  grave. 
However,  I tell  you  again,  even  follow  your  own  inventions;  you  men  will  be  masters,  and  we 
poor  women  are  born  to  bear  the  clog  of  obedience,  though  our  husbands  have  no  more  sense 
than  a cuckoo.” 

Here  she  feli  a- weeping  as  heartily  as  if  she  had  seen  her  daughter  already  dead  and 
buried.  Sancho  comforted  her,  and  promised  her.  that  though  he  was  to  make  her  a countess, 
yet  he  would  see  and  put  it  off  as  long  as  he  could.  Thus  ended  their  dialogue,  and  he  went 
back  to  Don  Quixote,  to  dispose  everything  for  a march. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


WHAT  PASSED  BETWEEN  DON  QUIXOTE,  HIS  NIECE,  AND  THE  HOUSEKEEPER:  BEING  ONE  OF  THE  MOST 

IMPORTANT  CHAPTERS  IN  THE  WHOLE  HISTORY. 


"Y  Y ^HILE  Sancho  Panza  and  his  wife,  Teresa  Cascajo,  had  the  foregoing  important 
Y/  Y/  dialogue,  Don  Quixote's  niece  and  housekeeper  were  not  idle,  guessing  by  a thousand 
signs  that  the  knight  intended  a third  sally.  Therefore  they  endeavoured  by  all  possible  means 
to  divert  him  from  his  foolish  design,  but  all  to  no  purpose  ; for  this  was  but  preaching  to  a 
rock,  and  hammering  cold  stubborn  steel.  But  among  other  arguments,  “ In  short,  sir,”  quoth 
the  housekeeper,  “ if  you  will  not  be  ruled,  but  will  needs  run  wandering  over  hill  and  dale, 
seeking  for  mischief,  for  so  I may  well  call  the  hopeful  adventures  which  you  go  about,  I will 
never  leave  complaining  to  Heaven  and  the  king,  till  there  is  a stop  put  to  it  some  way  or  other.” 

“What  answer  Heaven  will  vouchsafe  to  give  thee,  I know  not,”  answered  Don  Quixote; 
“neither  can  I tell  what  return  his  majesty  will  make  to  thy  petition.  This  I know,  that  were 
I a king  I would  excuse  myself  from  answering  the  infinite  number  of  impertinent  memorials 
that  disturb  the  repose  of  princes.  I tell  thee,  woman,  among  the  many  other  fatigues  which 
royalty  sustains,  it  is  one  of  the  greatest  to  be  obliged  to  hear  every  one,  and  to  give  answer  to 
all  people.  Therefore,  pray  trouble  not  his  majesty  with  anything  concerning  me.” 

“ But  pray,  sir,  tell  me,”  replied  she,  “ are  there  not  a many  knights  in  the  king’s  court  ? ” 
“ I must  confess,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  for  the  ornament,  the  grandeur,  and  the  pomp  of 
royalty,  many  knights  are,  and  ought  to  be,  maintained  there.” 

“ Why,  then,”  said  the  woman,  “ would  it  not  be  better  for  your  worship  to  be  one  ot 
those  brave  knights,  who  serve  the  king  their  master  on  foot  in  his  court  ? ” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Hear  me,  sweetheart,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ all  knights  cannot  be  courtiers,  nor  can  all 
courtiers  be  knights-errant.  For  your  courtiers,  without  so  much  as  stirring  out  of  their  chambers,  or 
the  shade  and  shelter  of  the  court,  can  journey  over  all  the  universe  in  a map,  without  the  expense 
and  fatigue  of  travelling,  without  suffering  the  inconveniences  of  heat,  cold,  hunger,  and'  thirst  ; 
while  we  who  are  the  true  knights-errant,  exposed  to  those  extremities,  and  all  the  inclemencies 
of  heaven,  by  night  and  by  day,  on  foot  as  well  as  on  horseback,  measure  the  whole  surface  of 
the  earth  with  our  own  feet.  Nor  are  we  only  acquainted  with  the  pictures  of  our  enemies,  but 
with  their  very  persons,  ready  upon  all  occasions  and  at  all  times  to  engage  them,  without  standing 
upon  trifles,  or  the  ceremony  of  measuring  weapons,  stripping,  or  examining  whether  our 
opponents  have  any  holy  relics  or  other  secret  charms  about  them,  whether  the  sun  be  duly 
divided,  or  any  other  punctilios  and  circumstances  observed  among  private  duelists — things  which 
thou  understandest  not,  but  I do,  and  must  further  let  thee  know  that  the  true  knight-errant, 
though  he  met  ten  giants,  whose  tall  aspiring  heads  not  only  touch  but  overtop  the  clouds,  each 
of  them  stalking  with  prodigious  legs  like  huge  towers,  their  sweeping  arms  like  masts  of  mighty 
ships,  each  eye  as  large  as  a mill-wheel,  and  more  fiery  than  a glass  furnace,  yet  he  is  so  far 
from  being  afraid  to  meet  them,  that  he  must  encounter  them  with  a gentle  countenance  and  an 
undaunted  courage,  assail  them,  close  with  them,  and  if  possible  vanquish  and  destroy  them  all  in 
an  instant  ; nay,  though  they  came  armed  with  the  scales  of  a certain  fish,  which  they  say  is  harder 
than  adamant,  and  instead  of  swords  had  dreadful  sabres  of  keen  Damascus  steel,  or  mighty  maces 
with  points  of  the  same  metal,  as  I have  seen  more  than  a dozen  times.” 

“ Ah  ! sir,”  said  the  niece,  “ have  a care  what  you  say  ; the  stories  of  knights-errant  are 
nothing  but  a pack  of  lies  and  fables;  and  if  they  are  not  burnt,  they  ought  at  least  to  wear  a 
sanbcnito , the  badge  of  heresy,  or  some  other  mark  of  infamy,  that  the  world  may  know  them 
to  be  wicked,  and  perverters  of  good  manners.” 

“ Now,  by  the  powerful  sustainer  of  my  being,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ wert  thou  not  so 

nearly  related  to  me,  wert  thou  not  my  own  sister’s  daughter,  I would  take  such  revenge  for 
the  blasphemy  thou  hast  uttered,  as  would  resound  through  the  whole  universe.  Who  ever 
heard  of  the  like  impudence  ? What  would  Sir  Amadis  have  said,  had  he  heard  this  ? But 
he  undoubtedly  would  have  forgiven  thee,  for  he  was  the  most  courteous  and  complaisant 
knight  of  his  time,  especially  to  the  fair  sex,  being  a great  protector  ot  damsels  ; but  thy  words 
might  have  reached  the  ears  of  some  that  would  have  sacrificed  thee  to  their  indignation  ; for 

all  knights  are  not  possessed  of  civility  or  good  nature  ; some  are  rough  and  revengeful ; and 

neither  are  all  those  that  assume  the  name  of  a disposition  suitable  to  the  function.  Some 
indeed  are  of  the  right  stamp,  but  others  are  either  counterfeit  or  of  such  an  alloy  as  cannot  bear 
the  touchstone,  though  they  deceive  the  sight.  Inferior  mortals  there  are,  who  aim  at 

knighthood,  and  strain  to  reach  the  height  of  honour ; and  high-born  knights  there  are, 
who  seem  fond  of  grovelling  in  the  dust,  and  being  lost  in  the  crowd  of  inferior  mortals.  The 
first  raise  themselves  by  ambition  or  by  virtue  ; the  last  debase  themselves  by  negligence  or  by 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


413 


vice;  so  that  there  is  need  of  a distinguishing  understanding  to  judge  between  these  two  sorts  of 
knights,  so  nearly  allied  in  name,  and  so  different  in  actions.” 

Bless  me ! dear  uncle,”  cried  the  niece,  “ that  you  should  know  so  much  as  to  be  able, 
if  there  was  occasion,  to  get  up  into  a pulpit,  or  preach  in  the  streets,  and  yet  be  so  strangely 
mistaken,  so  grossly  blind  of  understanding,  as  to  fancy  a man  of  your  years  and  infirmity  can 
be  strong  and  valiant ; that  you  can  set  everything  right,  and  force  stubborn  malice  to  bend, 
when  you  yourself  stoop  beneath  the  burden  of  age  ; and  what  is  yet  more  odd,  that  you  are 
a knight,  when  it  is  well  known  you  are  none  ! For  though  some  gentlemen  may  be  knights, 
a poor  gentleman  can  hardly  be  so,  because  he  cannot  buy  it.” 

“You  say  well,  niece,”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “and  as  to  this  last  observation,  I could 
tell  you  things  that  you  would  wonder  at,  concerning  families  ; but  because  I will  not  mix 
sacred  things  with  profane,  I waive  the  discourse.  However,  listen  both  of  you,  and  for  your 
farther  instruction  know  that  all  the  lineages  and  descents  of  mankind  are  reducible  to  these 
four  heads: — First,  those  who,  from  a very  small  and  obscure  beginning,  have  raised  them- 
selves to  a spreading  and  prodigious  magnitude.  Secondly,  those  who,  deriving  their  greatness 
from  a noble  spring,  still  preserve  the  dignity  and  character  of  their  original  splendour.  A 
third  are  those  who,  though  they  had  large  foundations,  have  ended  in  a point  like  a pyramid, 
which  by  little  and  little  dwindles,  as  it  were,  into  nothing,  or  next  to  nothing,  in  comparison  of  its 
basis.  Others  there  are  (and  those  are  the  bulk  of  mankind)  who  have  neither  had  a good  beginning 
nor  a rational  continuance,  and  whose  ending  shall  therefore  be  obscure  ; such  are  the  common 
people,  the  plebeian  race.  The  Ottoman  family  is  an  instance  of  the  first  sort,  having  derived  their 
present  greatness  from  the  poor  beginning  of  a base-born  shepherd.  Of  the  second  sort,  there  are 
many  princes  who,  being  born  such,  enjoy  their  dominions  by  inheritance,  and  leave  them  to  their 
successors  without  addition  or  diminution.  Of  the  third  sort  there  is  an  infinite  number  of 
examples  : for  all  the  Pharaohs  and  Ptolemies  of  Egypt,  your  Caesars  of  Rome,  and  all  the  swarm 
(if  I may  use  that  word)  of  princes,  monarchs,  lords — Medes,  Assyrians,  Persians,  Greeks,  and 
barbarians — all  these  families  and  empires  have  ended  in  a point,  as  well  as  those  who  gave  rise  to 
them : for  it  were  impossible  at  this  day  to  find  any  of  their  descendants  ; or  if  we  could  find  them, 
it  would  be  in  a poor,  grovelling  condition.  As  for  the  vulgar,  I say  nothing  of  them,  more  than 
that  they  are  thrown  in  as  ciphers  to  increase  the  number  of  mankind,  without  deserving  any  other 
praise.  Now,  my  good-natured  souls,  you  may  at  least  draw  this  reasonable  inference  from  what 
I have  said  of  this  promiscuous  dispensation  of  honours,  and  this  uncertainty  and  confusion  of 
descent,  that  virtue  and  liberality  in  the  present  possessor  are  the  most  just  and  indisputable  titles 
to  nobility ; for  the  advantages  of  pedigree,  without  these  qualifications,  serve  only  to  make  vice 
more  conspicuous.  The  great  man  that  is  vicious  will  be  greatly  vicious,  and  the  rich  miser  is  only 
a covetous  beggar;  for,  not  he  who  possesses,  but  who  spends  and  enjoys  his  wealth,  is  the  rich  and 
the  happy  man  ; nor  he  neither  who  barely  spends,  but  who  does  it  with  discretion.  The  poor 
knight,  indeed,  cannot  show  he  is  one  by  his  magnificence  ; but  yet  by  his  virtue,  affability,  civility, 


4 1 4 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


and  courteous  behaviour,  he  may  display  the  chief  ingredients  that  enter  into  the  composition  of 
knighthood  ; and  though  he  cannot  pretend  to  liberality,  wanting  riches  to  support  it,  his  charity 
may  recompense  that  defect ; for  an  alms  of  two  maravedis  cheerfully  bestowed  upon  an  indigent 
beggar,  by  a man  in  poor  circumstances,  proves  him  as  liberal  as  the  larger  donative  of  a vain- 
glorious rich  man  before  a fawning  crowd.  These  accomplishments  will  always  shine  through  the 
clouds  of  fortune,  and  at  last  break  through  them  with  splendour  and  applause.  There  are  two 
paths  to  dignity  and  wealth — arts  and  arms.  Arms  I have  chosen  ; and  the  influence  of  the  planet 
Mars,  that  presided  at  my  nativity,  led  me  to  that  adventurous  road  : so  that  all  your  attempts  to 
shake  my  resolution  are  in  vain;  for  in  spite  of  all  mankind,  I will  pursue  what  Heaven  has  fated, 
fortune  ordained,  reason  requires,  and  (which  is  more)  my  inclination  demands.  I am  sensible 
of  the  many  troubles  and  dangers  that  attend  the  prosecution  of  knight-errantry,  but  I also 
know  what  infinite  honours  and  rewards  are  the  consequences  of  the  performance.  The  path  of 
virtue  is  narrow,  and  the  way  of  vice  easy  and  open  ; but  their  ends  and  resting-places  are  very 
different  For  I know,  as  our  great  Castilian  poet  expresses  it,  that 

‘ Through  steep  ascents,  through  strait  and  rugged  ways, 

Ourselves  to  glory’s  lofty  seats  we  raise  : 

In  vain  he  hopes  to  reach  the  bless’d  abode, 

Who  leaves  the  vlarrow  path  for  the  more  easy  road.’” 

“ Alack  a-day  ! ” cried  the  niece,  “ my  uncle  is  a poet,  too  ! He  knows  everything.  I will  lay 
my  life  he  might  turn  mason  in  case  of  necessity.  If  he  would  but  undertake  it,  he  could  build  a 
house  as  easy  as  a bird-cage.” 

“ Why  truly,  niece,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ were  not  my  understanding  wholly  involved  in 
thoughts  relating  to  the  exercise  of  knight-errantry,  there  is  nothing  which  I durst  not  engage  to 
perform  ; no  curiosity  should  escape  my  hands,  especially  bird-cages  and  tooth-picks.” 

By  this  somebody  knocked  at  the  door,  and  being  asked  who  it  was,  Sancho  answered  it  was 
he  ; whereupon  the  housekeeper  slipped  out  of  the  way,  not  wishing  to  see  him,  and  the  niece  let 
him  in.  Don  Quixote  received  him  with  open  arms  ; and  locking  themselves  both  in  the  closet, 
they  had  another  dialogue  as  pleasant  as  the  former. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

AN  ACCOUNT  OF  DON  QUIXOTE’S  CONFERENCE  WITH  HIS  SQUIRE,  AND  OTHER  MOST  FAMOUS  PASSAGES. 

THE  housekeeper  no  sooner  saw  her  master  and  Sancho  locked  up  together,  but  she 
presently  surmised  the  drift  of  that  close  conference,  and  concluding  that  no  less  than 
villanous  knight-errantry  and  another  sally  would  prove  the  result  of  it,  she  flung  her  veil  over  her 
head,  and,  quite  cast  down  with  sorrow  and  vexation,  trudged  away  to  seek  Samson  Carrasco,  the 
bachelor  of  arts  ; depending  on  his  wit  and  eloquence  to  persuade  his  friend  Don  Quixote  from  his 
frantic  resolution.  She  found  him  walking  in  the  yard  of  his  house,  and  fell  presently  on  her  knees 
before  him  in  a cold  sweat,  and  with  all  the  marks  of  a disordered  mind. 

“What  is  the  matter,  woman  ?”  said  he,  somewhat  surprised  at  her  posture  and  confusion; 
“ what  has  befallen  you,  that  you  look  as  if  you  were  ready  to  give  up  the  ghost  ? ” 

“ Nothing,”  said  she,  “dear  sir,  but  that  my  master  is  departing  ! he  is  departing,  that  is  most 
certain.” 

“ How  !”  cried  Carrasco,  “ what  do  you  mean  ? Is  his  soul  departing  out  of  his  body  ? ” 

“ No,”  answered  the  woman,  “ but  all  his  wits  are  quite  and  clean  departing.  He  means  to  be 
gadding  again  into  the  wide  world,  and  is  upon  the  spur  now  the  third  time  to  hunt  after  ventures, 
as  he  calls  them,  though  I don’t  know  why  he  calls  those  chances  so.  The  first  time  he  was 


416 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


brought  home  was  athwart  an  ass,  and  almost  cudgelled  to  pieces.  The  other  bout  he  was  forced 
to  ride  home  in  a wagon,  cooped  up  in  a cage,  where  he  would  make  us  believe  he  was  enchanted ; 
and  the  poor  soul  looked  so  dismally,  that  his  own  mother  would  scarcely  have  known  her 
child — so  meagre,  wan,  and  withered,  and  his  eyes  so  sunk  and  hid  in  the  utmost  nook  and 
corner  of  his  brain,  that  I am  sure  I used  about  six  hundred  eggs  to  fatten  him  up  again  ; ay,  and 
more  too,  as  Heaven  and  all  the  world  is  my  witness  ; and  the  hens  that  laid  them  cannot  deny  it." 

“ That  I believe,’’  said  the  bachelor,  “ for  your  hens  are  so  well  bred,  so  fat,  and  so  good,  that 
they  won’t  say  one  thing  and  think  another  for  the  world.  But  is  this  all  ? Has  no  other  ill  luck 
befallen  you,  besides  this  of  your  master’s  intended  ramble  ? ” 

“No  other,  sir,’’  quoth  she. 

“ Then  trouble  your  head  no  farther,”  said  he,  “ but  get  you  home  ; and  as  you  go,  say  me  the 
prayer  of  St.  Apollonia,  if  you  know  it ; then  get  me  some  warm  bit  for  breakfast,  and  I will  come 
to  you  presently,  and  you  shall  see  wonders.” 

“ Dear  me  !”  quoth  she,  “ the  prayer  of  St.  Polonia  ! Why,  it  is  only  good  for  the  toothache; 
but  his  ailing  lies  in  his  skull.” 

“ Mistress,”  said  he,  “ do  not  dispute  with  me  : I know  what  I say.  Have  I not  commenced 
bachelor  of  arts  at  Salamanca,  and  do  you  think  there  is  any  bachelorising  beyond  that  ? ” 

With  that  away  she  goes,  and  he  went  presently  to  find  the  curate,  to  consult  with  him  about 
what  shall  be  declared  in  due  time. 

When  Sancho  and  his  master  were  locked  up  together  in  the  room,  there  passed  some 
discourse  between  them,  of  which  the  history  gives  a very  punctual  and  impartial  account. 

“ Sir,”  quoth  Sancho  to  his  master,  “ I have  at  last  reluced  my  wife  to  let  me  go  with  your 
worship  wherever  you  will  have  me.” 

“Reduced,  you  would  say,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “and  not  reluced.” 

“ Look  you,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ if  I am  not  mistaken,  I have  wished  you  once  or  twice  not  to 
stand  correcting  my  words,  if  you  understand  my  meaning  : if  you  do  not,  why  then  do  but  say  to 
me,  ‘Sancho,’  or  what  you  please,  ‘ I understand  thee  not ;’  and  if  I do  not  make  out  my  meaning 
plainly,  then  take  me  up  ; for  I am  so  forcible ” 

“ I understand  you  not,”  said  Don  Quixote,  interrupting  him ; “ for  I cannot  guess  the 
meaning  of  your  forcible.” 

“ Why,  so  forcible,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ is  as  much  as  to  say,  forcible ; that  is,  I am  so  and  so, 
as  it  were.” 

“ Less  and  less  do  I understand  thee,”  said  the  knight. 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ there  is  an  end  of  the  matter ; it  must  even  stick  there  for 
me,  for  I can  speak  no  better.” 

“ Oh  ! now,”  quoth  Don  Quixote,  “ I fancy  I guess  your  meaning ; you  mean  docible , I 
suppose,  implying  that  you  are  so  ready  and  apprehensive,  that  you  will  presently  observe  what 
I shall  teach  you.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


417 


“ I will  lay  any  even  wager  now,”  said  the  squire,  “ you  understood  me  well  enough  at 
first,  but  you  had  a mind  to  put  me  out,  merely  to  hear  me  put  your  fine  words  out  o’ joint." 

“That  may  be,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “but  pr’ythee  tell  me  what  says  Teresa.” 

“Why,  an’t  please  you,”  quoth  Sancho,  “Teresa  bids  me  make  sure  work  with  your 
worship,  and  that  we  may  have  ‘less  talking  and  more  doing  that  ‘a  man  must  not  be  his  own 
carver;'  that  ‘he  who  cuts  does  not  shuffle  that  ‘it  is  good  to  be  certain  that  ‘paper  speaks  when 
beards  never  wag  that  ‘a  bird  in  hand  is  worth  two  in  the  bush.’  ‘One  hold-fast  is  better  than  two 
I will  give  thee.’  Now,  I say,  a woman’s  counsel  is  not  worth  much,  yet  he  that  despises  it  is  no 
wiser  than  he  should  be.” 

“ I say  so  too,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ but  pray,  good  Sancho,  proceed ; for  thou  art  in  an 
excellent  strain ; thou  talkest  most  sententiously  to-day.” 

“ I say,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ as  you  know  better  yourself  than  I do,  that  we  are  all  mortal  men, 
here  to-day  and  gone  to-morrow  ; ‘ as  soon  goes  the  young  lamb  to  the  spit  as  the  old  wether  ;’  no 
man  can  tell  the  length  of  his  days  ; for  Death  is  deaf,  and  when  he  knocks  at  the  door,  mercy 
on  the  porter!  He  is  in  post-haste;  neither  fair  words  nor  foul,  crowns  nor  mitres,  can  stay  him, 
as  the  report  goes,  and  as  we  are  told  from  the  pulpit.” 

“ All  this  I grant,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ but  what  would  you  infer  from  hence  ?” 

“ Why,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ all  I would  be  at  is,  that  your  worship  allow  me  so  much  a 
month  for  my  wages,  whilst  I stay  with  you,  and  that  the  aforesaid  wages  be  paid  me  out  of  your 
estate.  For  I will  trust  no  longer  to  rewards,  that  mayhaps  may  come  late,  and  mayhaps  not  at  all. 
I would  be  glad  to  know  what  I get,  be  it  more  or  less.  ‘ A little  in  one’s  own  pocket  is  better  than 
much  in  another  man’s  purse.’  ‘It  is  good  to  keep  a nest  egg.’  ‘Many  little  makes  a mickle.’  ‘While 
a man  gets  he  never  can  lose.’  Should  it  happen,  indeed,  that  your  worship  should  give  me  this 
same  island,  which  you  promised  me,  though  it  is  what  I dare  not  so  much  as  hope  for,  why  then  I 
aint  such  an  ungrateful  nor  so  unconscionable  a muckworm,  but  that  I am  willing  to  strike  off  upon 
the  income,  for  what  wages  I receive,  cantity  for  cantity.” 

“ Would  not  quantity  have  been  better  than  cantity  ?”  asked  Don  Quixote. 

“ Ho  ! I understand  you  now,”  cried  Sancho  : “ I dare  lay  a wager  I should  have  said 
quantity  and  not  cantity  : but  no  matter  for  that,  since  you  knew  what  I meant.” 

“ Yes,  Sancho,”  quoth  the  knight,  “I  have  dived  to  the  very  bottom  of  your  thought,  and 
understand  now  the  aim  of  all  your  numerous  shot  of  proverbs.  Look  you,  friend  Sancho,  I 
should  never  scruple  to  pay  thee  wages,  had  I any  example  to  warrant  such  a practice.  Nay,  could 
I find  the  least  glimmering  of  a precedent  through  all  the  books  of  chivalry  that  ever  I read,  for 
any  yearly  or  monthly  stipend,  your  request  should  be  granted.  But  I have  read  all,  or  the  greatest 
part  of  the  histories  of  knights-errant,  and  find  that  all  their  squires  depended  purely  on  the  favour 
of  their  masters  for  a subsistence,  till  by  some  surprising  turn  in  the  knight’s  fortune,  the  servants 
were  advanced  to  the  government  of  some  island,  or  some  equivalent  gratuity  ; at  least,  they  had 
honour  and  a title  conferred  on  them  as  a reward.  Now,  friend  Sancho,  if  you  will  depend  on 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


418 

these  hopes  of  preferment,  and  return  to  my  service,  it  is  well  ; if  not,  get  you  home,  and  tell  your 
impertinent  wife  that  I will  not  break  through  all  the  rules  and  customs  of  chivalry,  to  satisfy  her 
sordid  diffidence  and  yours  ; and  so  let  there  be  no  more  words  about  the  matter,  but  let  us  part 
friends  ; and  remember  this,  that  if  there  be  vetches  in  my  dove-house,  it  will  want  no  pigeons. 
'Good  arrears  are  better  than  ill  pay  and  ‘a  fee  in  reversion  is  better  than  a farm  in  possession.’ 
Take  notice  too,  there  is  proverb  for  proverb,  to  let  you  know  that  I can  pour  out  a volley  of  them 
as  well  as  you.  In  short,  if  you  will  not  go  along  with  me  upon  courtesy,  and  run  the  same  fortune 
with  me,  Heaven  be  with  you,  and  make  you  a saint ; I do  not  question  but  I shall  get  me  a squire, 
more  obedient,  more  careful,  and  less  saucy  and  talkative  than  you.” 

Sancho  hearing  his  master’s  firm  resolution,  it  was  cloudy  weather  with  him  in  an  instant  ; he 
was  struck  dumb  with  disappointment,  and  down  sunk  at  once  his  heart  to  his  girdle  ; for  he  verily 
thought  he  could  have  brought  him  to  any  terms,  through  a vain  opinion  that  the  knight  would  not 
for  the  world  go  without  him.  While  he  was  thus  dolefully  buried  in  thought,  in  came  Samson 
Carrasco  and  the  niece,  very  eager  to  hear  the  bachelor’s  arguments  to  dissuade  Don  Quixote  from 
his  intended  sally.  But  Samson,  who  was  a rare  comedian,  presently  embracing  the  knight,  and 
beginning  in  a high  strain,  soon  disappointed  her.  “ Oh,  flower  of  chivalry ! ” cried  he,  “ refulgent 
glory  of  arms,  living  honour  and  mirror  of  our  Spanish  nation,  may  all  those  who  prevent  the  third 
expedition  which  thy  heroic  spirit  meditates  be  lost  in  the  labyrinth  of  their  perverse  desires,  and 
find  no  thread  to  lead  them  to  their  wishes  !”  Then  turning  to  the  housekeeper,  “ You  have  no 
need  now  to  say  the  prayer  of  St.  Apollonia,”  said  he,  “ for  I find  it  written  in  the  stars  that  the 
illustrious  champion  must  no  longer  delay  the  prosecution  of  glory  ; and  I should  injure  my 
conscience  should  I presume  to  dissuade  him  from  the  benefits  that  shall  redound  to  mankind 
by  exerting  the  strength  of  his  formidable  arm,  and  the  innate  virtues  of  his  heroic  soul.  Alas  ! 
his  stay  deprives  the  oppressed  orphans  of  a protector,  damsels  of  a deliverer,  champions  of 
their  honour,  widows  of  an  obliging  patron,  and  married  women  of  a vigorous  comforter ; nay, 
also  delays  a thousand  other  important  exploits  and  achievements,  which  are  the  duty  and 
necessary  consequences  of  the  honourable  order  of  knight-errantry.  Go  on  then,  my  graceful, 
my  valorous  Don  Quixote,  rather  this  very  day  than  the  next ; let  your  greatness  be  upon  the 
wing,  and  if  anything  be  wanting  towards  the  completing  of  your  equipage,  I stand  forth  to 
supply  you  with  my  life  and  fortune,  and  ready,  if  it  be  thought  expedient,  to  attend  your 
excellence  as  a squire — an  honour  which  I am  ambitious  to  attain.” 

“Well,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  hearing  this,  and  turning  to  his  squire,  “did  I not 
tell  thee  I should  not  want  squires  ? behold  who  offers  me  his  service  ! the  most  excellent 
bachelor  of  arts,  Samson  Carrasco,  the  perpetual  darling  of  the  Muses,  and  glory  of  the 
Salamanca  schools,  sound  and  active  of  body,  patient  of  labour,  inured  to  abstinence,  silent  in 
misfortune,  and,  in  short,  endowed  with  all  the  accomplishments  that  constitute  a squire.  But 
forbid  it,  Heaven!  that  to  indulge  my  private  inclinations  I should  presume  to  weaken  the 
whole  body  of  learning,  by  removing  from  it  so  substantial  a pillar,  so  vast  a repository  of 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


419 


sciences,  and  so  eminent  a branch  of  the  liberal  arts.  No,  my  friend,  remain  thou  another 
Samson  in  thy  country  ; be  the  honour  of  Spain,  and  the  delight  of  thy  ancient  parents  ; I shall 

content  myself  with  any  squire,  since  Sancho  does  not  vouchsafe  to  go  with  me.” 

“ I do,  I do,”  cried  Sancho,  relenting  with  tears  in  his  eyes  ; “ I do  vouchsafe ; it  shall 
never  be  said  of  Sancho  Panza,  ‘ No  longer  pipe,  no  longer  dance.’  Nor  have  I heart  of  flint, 
sir ; for  all  the  world  knows,  and  especially  our  town,  what  the  whole  generation  of  the 
Panzas  has  ever  been.  Besides,  I well  know,  and  have  already  found  by  many  good  turns, 
and  more  good  words,  that  your  worship  has  had  a good  will  towards  me  all  along  ; and  if  I 
have  done  otherwise  than  I should,  in  standing  upon  wages  or  so,  it  was  merely  to  humour 
my  wife,  who,  when  once  she  is  set  upon  a thing,  stands  digging  and  hammering  at  a man, 

like  a cooper  at  a tub,  till  she  clinches  the  point.  But  I am  the  husband,  and  will  be 

her  husband;  and  she  is  but  a wife,  and  shall  be  a wife.  None  can  deny  but  I am  a man 
every  inch  of  me,  wherever  I am,  and  I will  be  a man  at  home,  in  spite  of  anybody  ; so 

that  you  have  no  more  to  do  but  to  make  your  will  and  testament ; but  be  sure  you  make 

the  conveyance  so  firm  that  it  cannot  be  rebuked,  and  then  let  us  be  gone  as  soon  as  you 
please,  that  Master  Samson’s  soul  may  be  at  rest ; for  he  says  his  conscience  won’t  let  him  be 
quiet  till  he  has  set  you  upon  another  journey  through  the  world  ; and  I here  again  offer 

myself  to  follow  your  worship,  and  promise  to  be  faithful  and  loyal,  as  well,  nay,  and  better, 

than  all  the  squires  that  ever  waited  on  knights-errant.” 

The  bachelor  was  amazed  to  hear  Sancho  Panza  express  himself  after  that  manner  ; and 
though  he  had  read  much  of  him  in  the  first  part  of  his  history,  he  could  not  believe  him 
to  be  so  pleasant  a fellow  as  he  is  there  represented.  But  hearing  him  now  talk  of  rebuking 
instead  of  revoking  testaments  and  conveyances,  he  was  induced  to  credit  all  that  was  said 
of  him,  and  to  conclude  him  one  of  the  oddest  compounds  of  the  age  ; nor  could  he  imagine 
that  the  world  ever  saw  before  so  extravagant  a couple  as  the  master  and  man. 

Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  embraced,  becoming  as  good  friends  as  ever ; and  so,  with  the 
approbation  of  the  grand  Carrasco,  who  was  then  the  knight’s  oracle,  it  was  decreed  that 
they  should  set  out  at  the  expiration  of  three  days  ; in  which  time  all  necessaries  should  be 
provided,  especially  a whole  helmet,  which  Don  Quixote  said  he  was  resolved  by  all  means 
to  purchase.  Samson  offered  him  one  which  he  knew  he  could  easily  get  of  a friend,  and 

which  looked  more  dull  with  the  mould  and  rust,  than  bright  with  the  lustre  of  the  steel. 

The  niece  and  the  housekeeper  made  a woful  outcry ; they  tore  their  hair,  scratched  their 
faces,  and  howled  like  common  mourners  at  funerals,  lamenting  the  knight’s  departure,  as  if  it 
had  been  his  real  death,  and  cursing  Carrasco  most  unmercifully,  though  his  behaviour  was 
the  result  of  a contrivance  plotted  between  the  curate,  the  barber,  and  himself.  In  short, 

Don  Quixote  and  his  squire  having  got  all  things  in  readiness,  the  one  having  pacified  his 

wife,  and  the  other  his  niece  and  housekeeper,  towards  the  evening,  without  being  seen  by 
anybody  but  the  bachelor,  who  would  needs  accompany  them  about  half  a league  from  the 


420 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


village,  they  set  forward  for  Toboso.  The  knight  mounted  his  Rozinante,  and  Sancho  his  trusty 
Dapple,  his  wallet  well  stuffed  with  provisions,  and  his  purse  with  money,  which  Don  Quixote 
gave  him  10  defray  expenses.  At  last  Samson  took  his  leave,  desiring  the  champion  to  give 
him,  from  time  to  time,  an  account  of  his  success,  that,  according  to  the  laws  of  friendship, 
he  might  sympathise  in  his  good  or  evil  fortune.  Don  Quixote  made  him  a promise,  and  then 
they  parted  ; Samson  went  home,  and  the  knight  and  squire  continued  their  journey  for  the 
great  city  of  Toboso. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


DON  QUIXOTE’S  SUCCESS  IN  HIS  JOURNEY  TO  VISIT  THE  LADY  DULCINEA  DEL  TOBOSO. 

BLESSED  be  the  mighty  Allah!”  says  Hamet  Benengeli,  at  the  beginning  of  his  eighth 
chapter ; “ blessed  be  Allah ! ” which  ejaculation  he  thrice  repeated,  in  consideration 

of  the  blessing  that  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  had  once  more  taken  the  field  again,  and  that 

from  this  period  the  readers  of  their  delightful  history  may  date  the  knight’s  achievements  and 
the  squire’s  pleasantries  ; and  he  entreats  them  to  forget  the  former  heroical  transactions  of  the 
wonderful  knight,  and  fix  their  eyes  upon  his  future  exploits,  which  take  birth  from  his  setting 
out  for  Toboso,  as  the  former  began  in  the  fields  of  Montiel.  Nor  can  so  small  a request  be 
thought  unreasonable,  considering  what  he  promises,  which  begins  in  this  manner. 

Don  Quixote  and  his  squire  were  no  sooner  parted  from  the  bachelor,  but  Rozinante 
began  to  neigh,  and  Dapple  to  bray  ; which  both  the  knight  and  the  squire  interpreted  as  good 
omens,  and  most  fortunate  presages  of  their  success ; though  the  truth  of  the  story  is,  that 
as  Dapple’s  braying  exceeded  Rozinante’s  neighing,  Sancho  concluded  that  his  fortune  should 
out-rival  and  eclipse  his  master’s  ; which  inference  I will  not  say  he  drew  from  some  principles 

in  judicial  astrology,  in  which  he  was  undoubtedly  well  grounded,  though  the  history  is  silent 

in  that  particular ; however,  it  is  recorded  of  him  that  oftentimes  upon  the  falling  or  stumbling 
of  his  ass,  he  wished  he  had  not  gone  abroad  that  day,  and  from  such  accidents  prognosti- 
cated nothing  but  dislocation  of  joints  and  breaking  of  ribs ; and  notwithstanding  his  foolish 
character,  this  was  no  bad  observation.  “ Friend  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote  to  him,  “ I find 
the  approaching  night  will  overtake  us  ere  we  can  reach  Toboso,  where,  before  I enter  upon 
any  expedition,  I am  resolved  to  pay  my  vows,  receive  my  benediction,  and  take  my  leave 
of  the  peerless  Dulcinea  ; being  assured  after  that  of  happy  events,  in  the  most  dangerous 


« Friend  Sancho.”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I find  the  approaching  night  will  overtake  us  ere  we  can  reach  Toboso.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


423 


adventures;  for  nothing  in  this  world  inspires  a knight-errant  with  so  much  valour  as  the 
smiles  and  favourable  aspects  of  his  mistress.” 

“ I am  of  your  mind,”  quoth  Sancho  : “ but  I am  afraid,  sir,  you  will  hardly  come  at  her, 
to  speak  with  her,  at  least  not  to  meet  her  in  a place  where  she  may  give  you  her  blessing, 
unless  she  throw  it  over  the  mud  wall  of  the  yard,  where  I first  saw  her,  when  I carried  her 
the  news  of  your  mad  pranks  in  the  midst  of  Sierra  Morena.” 

“ Mud  wall  ! dost  thou  say  ? ” cried  Don  Quixote  : “ mistaken  fool ! that  wall  could  have 
no  existence  but  in  thy  muddy  understanding  : it  is  a mere  creature  of  thy  dirty  fancy ; for 
that  never-duly-celebrated  paragon  of  beauty  and  gentility  was  then  undoubtedly  in  some  court, 
in  some  stately  gallery  or  walk,  or,  as  it  is  properly  called,  in  some  sumptuous  and  royal 
palace.” 

“It  may  be  so,”  said  Sancho,  “though,  so  far  as  I can  remember,  it  seemed  to  me 
neither  better  nor  worse  than  a mud  wall.” 

“ It  is  no  matter,”  replied  the  knight,  “ let  us  go  thither  ; I will  visit  my  dear  Dulcinea  ; 
let  me  but  see  her,  though  it  be  over  a mud  wall,  through  a chink  of  a cottage,  or  the  pales 
of  a garden,  at  a lattice,  or  anywhere  ; which  way  soever  the  least  beam  from  her  bright 
eyes  reaches  mine,  it  will  so  enlighten  my  mind,  so  fortify  my  heart,  and  invigorate  every 
faculty  of  my  being,  that  no  mortal  will  be  able  to  rival  me  in  prudence  and  valour.” 

“ Troth,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ when  I beheld  that  same  sun  of  a lady,  methought  it  did 
not  shine  so  bright  as  to  cast  forth  any  beams  at  all ; but,  mayhaps,  the  reason  was,  that  the 
dust  of  the  grain  she  was  winnowing  raised  a cloud  about  her  face,  and  made  her  look  some- 
what dull.” 

“ I teli  thee  again,  fool,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thy  imagination  is  dusty  and  foul.  Will  it 
never  be  beaten  out  of  thy  stupid  brain,  that  my  Lady  Dulcinea  was  winnowing  ? Are  such 
exercises  used  by  persons  of  her  quality,  whose  recreations  are  always  noble,  and  such  as 
display  an  air  of  greatness  suitable  to  their  birth  and  dignity  ? Canst  thou  not  remember  the 
verses  of  our  poet,  when  he  recounts  the  employments  of  the  four  nymphs  at  their  crystal 
mansions,  when  they  advanced  their  heads  above  the  streams  of  the  lovely  Tagus,  and  sat 
upon  the  grass,  working  those  rich  embroideries,  where  silk  and  gold,  and  pearl  embossed, 
were  so  curiously  interwoven,  and  which  that  ingenious  bard  so  artfully  describes  ? So  was 
my  princess  employed  when  she  blessed  thee  with  her  sight ; but  the  envious  malice  of  some 
base  necromancer  fascinated  thy  sight,  as  it  represents  whatever  is  most  grateful  to  me  in  different 
and  displeasing  shapes.  And  this  makes  me  fear  that  if  the  history  of  my  achievements,  which 
they  tell  me  is  in  print,  has  been  written  by  some  magician  who  is  no  well-wisher  to  my 
glory,  he  has  undoubtedly  delivered  many  things  with  partiality,  and  misrepresented  my  life, 
giving  a hundred  falsehoods  for  one  truth,  and  diverting  himself  with  the  relation  of  idle  stories, 
foreign  to  the  purpose,  and  unsuitable  to  the  continuation  of  a true  history.  Oh,  envy  ! envy  ! 
thou  gnawing  worm  of  virtue,  and  spring  of  infinite  mischiefs ! there  is  no  other  vice,  my 


424 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Sancho,  but  pleads  some  pleasure  in  its  excuse  ; but  envy  is  always  attended  by  disgust, 
rancour,  and  distracting  rage.” 

“ I am  much  of  your  mind,”  said  Sancho ; “ and  I think,  in  the  same  book  which  neigh- 
bour Carrasco  told  us  he  had  read  of  our  lives,  the  story  makes  bold  with  my  credit,  and 
has  handled  it  in  a strange  manner,  dragging  it  about  the  kennels,  as  a body  may  say. 
Well,  now,  as  I am  an  honest  man,  I never  spoke  an  ill  word  of  a magician  in  my  born  days  ; 
and  I think  they  need  not  envy  my  condition  so  much.  The  truth  is,  I am  somewhat  malicious  ; 

I have  my  roguish  tricks  now  and  then  ; but  I was  ever  counted  more  fool  than  knave,  for 
all  that,  and  so  indeed  I was  bred  and  born  ; and  if  there  were  nothing  else  in  me  but  my 
religion — for  I firmly  believe  whatever  our  holy  Roman  Catholic  Church  believes,  and  I hate 
the  Jews  mortally — these  same  historians  should  take  pity  on  me,  and  spare  me  a little  in 
their  books.  But  let  them  say  on  to  the  end  of  the  chapter ; naked  I came  into  the  world, 
and  naked  must  go  out.  It  is  all  a case  to  Sancho;  I can  neither  win  nor  lose  by  the 
bargain  : and  so  my  name  be  in  print,  and  handed  about,  I care  not  a fig  for  the  worst  they 
can  say  of  me.” 

“ What  thou  sayest,  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ puts  me  in  mind  of  a story. 
A celebrated  poet  of  our  time  wrote  a very  scurrilous  and  abusive  lampoon  upon  all  the 
intriguing  ladies  of  the  court,  forbearing  to  name  one,  as  not  being  sure  whether  she  deserved 
to  be  put  into  the  catalogue  or  no  ; but  the  lady,  not  finding  herself  there,  was  not  a little 
affronted  at  the  omission,  and  made  a great  complaint  to  the  poet,  asking  him  what  he  had 
seen  in  her,  that  he  should  leave  her  out  of  his  list ; desiring  him,  at  the  same  time,  to  enlarge 
his  satire,  and  put  her  in,  or  expect  to  hear  further  from  her.  The  author  obeyed  her  com- 
mands, and  gave  her  a character  with  a vengeance,  and,  to  her  great  satisfaction,  made  her 
as  famous  for  infamy  as  any  other.  Such  another  story  is  that  of  Diana’s  Temple,  one  of  the 
seven  wonders  of  the  world,  burnt  by  an  obscure  fellow  merely  to  eternise  his  name  ; which, 
in  spite  of  an  edict  that  enjoined  all  people  never  to  mention  it,  either  by  word  of  mouth  or 
in  writing,  yet  is  still  known  to  have  been  Erostratus.  The  story  of  the  great  Emperor 
Charles  V.,  and  a Roman  knight,  upon  a certain  occasion,  is  much  the  same.  The 
emperor  had  a great  desire  to  see  the  famous  temple  once  called  the  Pantheon,  but  now  more 
happily  the  Church  of  All  Saints.  It  is  the  only  entire  edifice  remaining  of  heathen  Rome, 
and  that  which  best  gives  an  idea  of  the  glory  and  magnificence  of  its  great  founders.  It  is 
built  in  the  shape  of  a half  orange,  of  a vast  extent,  and  very  lightsome,  though  it  admits 
light  but  at  one  window,  or,  to  speak  more  properly,  at  a round  aperture  on  the  top  of 
the  roof.  The  emperor  being  got  up  thither,  and  looking  down  from  the  brink  upon  the1 
fabric,  with  a Roman  knight  by  him,  who  showed  all  the  beauties  of  that  vast  edifice,  after 
they  were  gone  from  the  place,  the  knight  said,  addressing  the  emperor,  ‘ It  came  into  my 
head  a thousand  times,  sacred  sir,  to  embrace  your  majesty,  and  cast  myself,  with  you,  from 
the  top  of  the  church  to  the  bottom,  that  I might  thus  purchase  an  immortal  name.’ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


4-5 


‘ I thank  you,’  said  the  emperor,  ‘ for  not  doing  it  ; and  for  the  future,  I will  give  you  no 
opportunity  to  put  your  loyalty  to  such  a test.  Therefore  I banish  you  my  presence  forever;’ 
which  done,  he  bestowed  some  considerable  favour  on  him.  I tell  thee,  Sancho,  this  desire 
of  honour  is  a strange,  bewitching  thing.  What  dost  thou  think  made  Horatius,  armed  at  all 
points,  plunge  headlong  from  the  bridge  into  the  rapid  Tiber?  What  prompted  Curtius  to  leap 
into  the  profound  flaming  gulf?  What  made  Mutius  burn  his  hand  ? What  forced  Caesar 
over  the  Rubicon,  spite  of  all  the  omens  that  dissuaded  his  passage  ? And  to  instance  a more 
modern  example,  what  made  the  undaunted  Spaniards  sink  their  ships,  when  under  the  most 
courteous  Cortez,  but  that,  scorning  the  stale  honour  of  this  so  often  conquered  world,  they  sought 
a maiden  glory  in  a new  scene  of  victory  ? These  and  a multiplicity  of  other  great  actions 
are  owing  to  the  immediate  thirst  and  desire  of  fame,  which  mortals  expect  as  the  proper  price 
and  immortal  recompense  of  their  great  actions.  But  we  that  are  Christian  catholic  knights- 
errant  must  fix  our  hopes  upon  a higher  reward,  placed  in  the  eternal  and  celestial  regions, 
where  we  may  expect  a permanent  honour  and  complete  happiness  ; not  like  the  vanity  of  fame, 
which,  at  best,  is  but  the  shadow  of  great  actions,  and  must  necessarily  vanish,  when  destructive 
time  has  eaten  away  the  substance  which  it  followed.  So,  my  Sancho,  since  we  expect  a Christian 
reward,  we  must  suit  our  actions  to  the  rules  of  Christianity.  In  giants  we  must  kill  pride  and 
arrogance  : but  our  greatest  foes,  and  whom  we  must  chiefly  combat,  are  within.  Envy  we  must 
overcome  by  generosity  and  nobleness  of  soul  ; anger,  by  a reposed  and  easy  mind ; riot  and 
drowsiness,  by  vigilance  and  temperance  ; lasciviousness,  by  our  inviolable  fidelity  to  those  who  are 
mistresses  of  our  thoughts  ; and  sloth,  by  our  indefatigable  peregrinations  through  the  universe, 

to  seek  occasions  of  military  as  well  as  Christian  honours.  This,  Sancho,  is  the  road  to  lasting 

fame,  and  a good  and  honourable  renown.” 

“ I understand  passing  well  every  tittle  you  have  said,”  answered  Sancho  ; “ but,  pray  now, 

sir,  will  you  dissolve  me  of  one  doubt,  that  is  just  come  into  my  head ” 

“ Resolve,  thou  wouldst  say,  Sancho,’  replied  Don  Quixote  : “ well,  speak,  and  I will 
endeavour  to  satisfy  thee.” 

“Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “pray  tell  me  these  same  Julys,  and  these  Augusts,  and  all 
the  rest  of  the  famous  knights  you  talk  of  that  are  dead,  where  are  they  now  ? ” 

“Without  doubt,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “the  heathens  are  in  hell.  The  Christians,  if 
their  lives  were  answerable  to  their  profession,  are  in  heaven.” 

“ So  far  so  good,”  said  Sancho  ; “ but  pray  tell  me,  the  tombs  of  these  iordlings,  have  they 
any  silver  lamps  still  burning  before  them,  and  are  their  chapel  walls  hung  about  with  crutches, 
winding-sheets,  old  periwigs,  legs,  and  wax-eyes  ? or  with  what  are  they  hung  ?” 

“ The  monuments  of  the  dead  heathens,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ were  for  the  most  part 
sumptuous  pieces  of  architecture.  The  ashes  of  Julius  Caesar  were  deposited  on  the  top  of  an 
obelisk,  all  of  one  stone  of  a prodigious  bigness,  which  is  now  called  Aguglia  di  San  Pietro- 
St.  Peter’s  Needle.  The  Emperor  Adrian’s  sepulchre  was  a vast  structure  as  big  as  an  ordinary 

54 


426 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


village,  and  called  Moles  Adriani,  and  now  the  castle  of  St.  Angelo  in  Rome.  Queen  Artemisia 
buried  her  husband  Mausolus  in  so  curious  and  magnificent  a pile,  that  his  monument  was 
reputed  one  of  the  seven  wonders  of  the  world.  But  none  of  these,  nor  any  other  of  the 

heathen  sepulchres,  were  adorned  with  any  winding-sheets,  or  other  offering,  that  might  imply 

the  persons  interred  were  saints." 

“ Thus  far  we  are  right,"  quoth  Sancho ; “ now,  sir,  pray  tell  me,  which  is  the  greatest 

wonder — to  raise  a dead  man,  or  kill  a giant  ? ” 

“ The  answer  is  obvious,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ to  raise  a dead  man,  certainly.” 

“ Then,  master,  I have  nicked  you,”  saith  Sancho  ; “ for  he  that  raises  the  dead,  makes  the 

blind  see,  the  lame  walk,  and  the  sick  healthy,  who  has  lamps  burning  night  and  day  before 

his  sepulchre,  and  whose  chapel  is  full  of  pilgrims,  who  adore  his  relics  on  their  knees — that 
man,  I say,  has  more  fame  in  this  world  and  in  the  next  than  any  of  your  heathenish 
emperors  or  knights-errant  ever  had,  or  will  ever  have.” 

“ I grant  it,”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“ Very  good,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ I will  be  with  you  anon.  This  fame,  these  gifts,  these 
rights,  privileges,  and  what  do  you  call  them,  the  bodies  and  relics  of  these  saints  have ; so 
that  by  the  consent  and  good  liking  of  our  holy  mother,  the  Church,  they  have  their  lamps, 
their  lights,  their  winding-sheets,  their  crutches,  their  pictures,  their  heads  of  hair,  their  legs, 
their  eyes,  and  I know  not  what  else,  by  which  they  stir  up  people’s  devotion,  and  spread 
their  Christian  fame.  Kings  will  vouchsafe  to  carry  the  bodies  of  saints  or  their  relics  on  their 
shoulders,  they  will  kiss  the  pieces  of  their  bones,  and  spare  no  cost  to  set  off  and  deck 
their  shrines  and  chapels.” 

“ And  what  of  all  this  ? ” said  Don  Quixote  ; “ what  is  your  inference  ? 

“ Why,  truly,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  we  turn  saints  as  fast  as  we  can,  and  that  is  the 

readiest  and  cheapest  way  to  get  this  same  honour  you  talk  of.  It  was  but  yesterday  or  the 
other  day,  or  I cannot  tell  when — I am  sure  it  was  not  long  since — that  two  poor  bare-footed 
friars  were  sainted ; and  you  cannot  think  what  a crowd  of  people  there  is  to  kiss  the  iron 
chains  they  wore  about  their  waists  instead  of  girdles,  to  humble  the  flesh.  I dare  say  they 

are  more  reverenced  than  Orlando’s  sword,  that  hangs  in  the  armoury  of  our  sovereign  lord 

the  king,  whom  Heaven  grant  long  to  reign ! So  that  for  aught  I see,  better  it  is  to  be  a 
friar,  though  but  of  a beggarly  order,  than  a valiant  errant-knight ; and  a dozen  or  two  of 
sound  lashes,  well  meant,  and  as  well  laid  on,  will  obtain  more  of  Heaven  than  two  thousand 
thrusts  with  a lance,  though  they  be  given  to  giants,  dragons,  or  hobgoblins." 

“All  this  is  very  true,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “but  nil  men  cannot  be  friars;  we  have 
different  parts  allotted  us,  to  mount  to  the  high  seat  of  eternal  felicity.  Chivalry  is  a religious 
order,  and  there  are  knights  in  the  fraternity  of  saints  in  heaven.” 

“ However,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I have  heard  say  there  are  more  friars  there  than  knights- 

errant” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


427 

“ That  is,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ because  there  is  a greater  number  of  friars  than  of 
knights.” 

O 

“ But  are  there  not  a great  many  knights-errant  too  ? ” said  Sancho. 

“ There  are  many  indeed,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ but  very  few  that  deserve  the  name.” 

In  such  discourses  as  these  the  knight  and  squire  passed  the  night,  and  the  whole  succeeding 
day,  without  encountering  any  occasion  to  signalise  themselves;  at  which  Don  Quixote  was  very 
much  concerned.  At  last,  towards  evening  the  next  day,  they  discovered  the  goodly  city  oi 
Toboso,  which  revived  the  knight’s  spirits  wonderfully,  but  had  quite  a contrary  effect  on  his 
squire,  because  he  did  not  know  the  house  where  Dulcinea  lived,  no  more  than  his  master. 
So  that  the  one  was  mad  till  he  saw  her,  and  the  other  very  melancholic  and  disturbed  in 
mind,  because  he  had  never  seen  her;  nor  did  he  know  what  to  do,  should  his  master  send 
him  to  Toboso.  However,  as  Don  Quixote  would  not  make  his  entry  in  the  day  time,  they 
spent  the  evening  among  some  oaks  not  far  distant  from  the  place,  till  the  prefixed  moment 
came : then  they  entered  the  city,  where  they  met  with  adventures  indeed. 


THAT  GIVES  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THINGS  WHICH  YOU  WILL  KNOW  WHEN  YOU  READ  IT. 

THE  sable  night  had  spun  out  half  her  course,  when  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  descended 
from  a hill,  and  entered  Toboso.  A profound  silence  reigned  over  all  the  town,  and 
all  the  inhabitants  were  fast  asleep,  and  stretched  out  at  their  ease.  The  night  was  somewhat 
clear,  though  Sancho  wished  it  dark,  to  hide  his  master’s  folly  and  his  own.  Nothing  dis- 
turbed the  general  tranquillity,  but  now  and  then  the  barking  of  dogs,  that  wounded  Don 
Quixote’s  ears,  but  more  poor  Sancho’s  heart.  Sometimes  an  ass  brayed,  hogs  grunted,  cats 
mewed  ; which  jarring  mixture  of  sounds  was  not  a little  augmented  by  the  stillness  and  serenity 
of  the  night,  and  filled  the  enamoured  champion’s  head  with  a thousand  inauspicious  chimeras. 
However,  turning  to  his  squire,  “ My  dear  Sancho,’’  said  he,  “ show  me  the  way  to  Dulcinea’s 
palace  ; perhaps  we  shall  find  her  still  awake.” 

“ Bless  me,"  cried  Sancho,  “ what  palace  do  you  mean  ? When  I saw  her  highness, 
she  was  in  a little  paltry  cot.” 

“ Perhaps,”  replied  the  knight,  “ she  was  then  retired  into  some  corner  of  the  palace,  to 
divert  herself  in  private  with  her  damsels,  as  great  ladies  and  princesses  sometimes  do.” 

“Well,  sir,”  said  Sancho,  “although  it  must  be  a palace  whether  I will  or  no,  yet  can  you 
think  this  a time  of  night  to  find  the  gates  open,  or  a seasonable  hour  to  thunder  at  the  door, 
till  we  raise  the  house  and  alarm  the  whole  town  ? Are  we  going  to  a lodging  house,  think 
you,  like  your  travellers,  that  can  rap  at  a door  any  hour  of  the  night,  and  knock  people  up 
when  they  list  ?” 

“ Let  us  once  find  the  palace,”  said  the  knight,  “ and  then  I will  tell  thee  what  we  ought 
to  do.  But  stay  ! either  my  eyes  delude  me,  or  that  lofty,  gloomy  structure  which  I discover 
yonder  is  Dulcinea’s  palace.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


429 

“Well,  lead  on,  sir,”  said  the  squire;  “and  yet,  though  I were  to  see  it  with  my  eyes,  and 
feel  it  with  my  ten  fingers,  I should  believe  it  even  as  much  as  I believe  it  is  now  noon-day.” 

The  knight  led  on,  and  having  rode  about  two  hundred  paces,  came  at  last  to  the 
building  which  he  took  for  Dulcinea’s  palace,  but  found  it  to  be  the  great  church  of  the  town. 

“ We  are  mistaken,  Sancho,”  said  he  ; “ I find  this  is  a church.” 

“I  see  it  is,”  said  the  squire;  “and  I pray  Heaven  we  have  not  found  our  graves;  for 
it  is  a plaguy  ill  sign  to  haunt  churchyards  at  this  time  of  night,  especially  when  I told 
you,  if  I am  not  mistaken,  that  this  lady’s  house  stands  in  a little  blind  alley,  without  any 
thoroughfare.” 

“ A curse  on  thy  distempered  brain ! ” cried  Don  Quixote.  “ Where,  blockhead,  where  didst 
thou  ever  see  royal  edifices  and  palaces  built  in  a blind  alley,  without  a thoroughfare  ? ” 

“ Sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ every  country  has  its  several  fashions ; and,  for  aught  you  know, 
they  may  build  their  great  houses  and  palaces  in  blind  alleys  at  Toboso  : and  therefore,  good 
your  worship,  let  me  alone  to  hunt  up  and  down  in  what  by-lanes  and  alleys  I may  strike 
into — mayhap  in  some  nook  or  corner  we  may  light  upon  this  same  palace.  Would  any  one 
had  it  for  me,  for  leading  us  such  a jaunt,  and  plaguing  a body  at  this  rate ! ” 

“ Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ speak  with  greater  respect  of  my  mistress’s  concerns.  Be 
merry  and  wise,  and  do  not  throw  the  helve  after  the  hatchet.” 

“ Cry  mercy,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  would  it  not  make  any  mad,  to  have  you  put 
me  upon  finding  readily  our  dame’s  house  at  all  times,  which  I never  saw  but  once  in  my 
life  ? — nay,  and  to  find  it  at  midnight,  when  you  yourself  cannot  find  it,  that  have  seen  it 
a thousand  times  ! ” 

“ Thou  wilt  make  me  desperately  angry,"  said  the  knight.  “ Hark  you,  heretic  ! have  I not 
repeated  it  a thousand  times  that  I never  saw  the  peerless  Dulcinea,  nor  ever  entered  the  portals 
of  her  palace;  but  that  I am  in  love  with  her  purely  by  hearsay,  and  upon  the  great  fame  of  her 
beauty  and  rare  accomplishments?” 

“ I hear  you  say  so  now,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ and  since  you  say  you  never  saw  her,  I must 
needs  tell  you  I never  saw  her  either.” 

“ That  is  impossible,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ at  least,  you  told  me  you  saw  her  winnowing 
wheat,  when  you  brought  me  an  answrer  to  the  letter  which  I sent  by  you.” 

“ That  is  neither  here  nor  there,  sir,”  replied  Sancho ; “ for,  to  be  plain  with  you,  I saw 
her  but  by  hearsay  too,  and  the  answer  I brought  you  was  by  hearsay  as  well  as  the  rest,  and  I 
know  the  Lady  Dulcinea  no  more  than  the  man  in  the  moon.” 

“ Sancho  ! Sancho  ! ” said  Don  Quixote,  “ there  is  a time  for  all  things  ; unseasonable  mirth 
always  turns  to  sorrow.  What ! because  I declare  that  I have  never  seen  nor  spoken  to  the 
mistress  of  my  soul,  is  it  for  you  to  trifle  and  say  so  too,  when  you  are  so  sensible  of  the  contrary  ?” 

Here  their  discourse  was  interrupted,  a fellow  with  two  mules  happening  to  pass  by  them  ; 
and,  by  the  noise  of  the  plough  which  they  drew  along,  they  guessed  it  might  be  some  country 


430 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


labourer  going  out  before  day  to  his  husbandry  ; and  so,  indeed,  it  was.  He  went  singing  the 
doleful  ditty  of  the  defeat  of  the  French  at  Roncesvalles  : “Ye  Frenchmen!  all  must  rue  the 

woful  day.” 

“ Let  me  die,”  said  Don  Quixote,  hearing  what  the  fellow  sung,  “ if  we  have  any  good  success 
to-night.  Dost  thou  hear  what  this  peasant  sings,  Sancho  ? ” 

“Ay,  marry  do  I,”  quoth  the  squire.  “ But  what  is  the  rout  at  Roncesvalles  to  us?  it  con- 
cerns us  no  more  than  if  he  had  sung  the  ballad  of  ‘ Colly  my  Cow  : ’ we  shall  speed  neither 
the  better  nor  the  worse  for  it.” 

By  this  time,  the  ploughman  being  come  up  to  them — “ Good  morrow,  honest  friend  !”  cried 
Don  Quixote  to  him.  “ Pray,  can  you  inform  me  which  is  the  palace  of  the  peerless  princess, 
the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  ?” 

“ Sir,”  said  the  fellow,  “ I am  a stranger,  and  but  lately  come  into  this  town  ; I am  plough- 
man to  a rich  farmer.  But  here,  right  over  against  you,  live  the  curate  and  the  sexton  ; they 
are  the  likeliest  to  give  you  some  account  of  that  lady  princess,  as  having  a list  of  all  the  folks 
in  town,  though  I fancy  there  is  no  princess  at  all  lives  here.  There  be,  indeed,  a power  of 
gentle-folk,  and  each  of  them  may  be  a princess  in  her  own  house  for  aught  I know.” 

“ Perhaps,  friend,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ we  shall  find  the  lady  for  whom  I inquire  among 
those." 

“ Why,  truly,  master,"  answered  the  ploughman,  “ as  you  say,  such  a thing  may  be,  and  so 
speed  you  well  ! ’Tis  break  of  day.”  With  that,  switching  his  mules,  he  stayed  for  no  more 
questions. 


CHAPTER  X. 

HOW  SANCHO  CUNNINGLY  FOUND  OUT  A WAY  TO  ENCHANT  THE  LADY  DULCINEA,  WITH  OTHER 

PASSAGES  NO  LESS  CERTAIN  THAN  RIDICULOUS. 

SANCHO,  perceiving  his  master  in  suspense  and  not  very  well  satisfied,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ the 
day  comes  on  apace,  and  I think  it  will  not  be  very  handsome  for  us  to  stay  to  be  stared 
at,  and  sit  sunning  ourselves  in  the  street.  We  had  better  slip  out  of  town  again,  and  betake 
ourselves  to  some  wood  hard  by,  and  then  I will  come  back  and  search  every  hole  and  comer  in 
town  for  this  same  house,  castle,  or  palace  of  my  lady’s,  and  it  will  go  hard  if  I do  not  find  it 
out  at  long  run  ; then  will  I talk  to  her  highness,  and  tell  her  how  you  do,  and  how  I left  you 
hard  by,  waiting  her  orders  and  instructions  about  talking  with  her  in  private,  without  bringing 
her  name  in  question.” 

“ Dear  Sancho,”  said  the  knight,  “ thou  hast  spoke  and  included  a thousand  sentences  in  the 
compass  of  a few  words.  I approve  and  lovingly  accept  thy  advice.  Come,  my  child ; let  us  go 
and  in  some  neighbouring  grove  find  out  a convenient  retreat ; then,  as  thou  sayest,  thou  shalt 
return  to  seek,  to  see,  and  to  deliver  my  embassy  to  my  lady,  from  whose  discretion  and  most 
courteous  mind  I hope  for  a thousand  favours  that  may  be  counted  more  than  wonderful.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


432 

Sancho  sat  upon  thorns  till  he  had  got  his  master  out  of  town,  lest  he  should  discover  the 
falsehood  of  the  account  he  brought  him  in  Sierra  Morena,  of  Dulcinea’s  answering  his  letter  ; 
so,  hastening  to  be  gone,  they  were  presently  got  two  miles  from  the  town  into  a wood,  where 
Don  Quixote  took  covert,  and  Sancho  was  dispatched  to  Dulcinea,  in  which  negotiation  some 
accidents  fell  out  that  require  new  attention  and  a fresh  belief. 

The  author  of  this  important  history  being  come  to  the  matters  which  he  relates  in  this 
chapter,  says  he  would  willingly  have  left  them  buried  in  oblivion,  in  a manner  despairing 
of  his  reader’s  belief.  For  Don  Quixote’s  madness  flies  here  to  so  extravagant  a pitch,  that 
it  may  be  said  to  have  outstripped,  by  two  bow-shots,  all  imaginable  credulity.  However,  not- 
withstanding this  mistrust;  he  has  set  down  every  particular,  just  as  the  same  was  transacted, 
without  adding  or  diminishing  the  least  atom  of  truth  through  the  whole  history,  not  valuing  in  the 
least  such  objections  as  may  be  raised  to  impeach  him  of  breach  of  veracity — a proceeding  which 
ought  to  be  commended  ; for  truth,  indeed,  rather  alleviates  than  hurts,  and  will  always  bear  up 
against  falsehood,  as  oil  does  above  water.  And  so,  continuing  his  narration,  he  tells  us  that  when 
Don  Quixote  was  retired  into  the  wood  or  forest,  or  rather  into  the  grove  of  oaks  near  the  Grand 
Toboso,  he  ordered  Sancho  to  go  back  to  the  city,  and  not  to  return  to  his  presence  till  he  had  an 
audience  of  his  lady,  beseeching  her  that  it  might  please  her  to  be  seen  by  her  captive  knight,^ and 
vouchsafe  to  bestow  her  benediction  on  him,  that  by  the  virtue  of  that  blessing  he  might  hope  for 
a prosperous  event  in  all  his  onsets  and  perilous  attempts  and  adventures.  Sancho  undertook  the 
charge,  engaging  him  as  successful  a return  of  this  as  of  his  former  message. 

“ Go,  then,  child,”  said  the  knight,  “and  have  a care  of  being  daunted  when  thou  approachest 
the  beams  of  that  refulgent  sun  of  beauty.  Happy  thou,  above  all  the  squires  of  the  universe  ! 
Observe  and  engrave  in  thy  memory  the  manner  of  thy  reception  ; mark  whether  her  colour 
changes  upon  the  delivery  of  thy  commission  ; whether  her  looks  betray  any  emotion  or  concern 
when  she  hears  my  name  ; whether  she  does  not  seem  to  sit  on  her  cushion  with  a strange  uneasi- 
ness, in  case  thou  happenest  to  find  her  seated  on  the  pompous  throne  of  her  authority.  And  if 
she  be  standing,  mind  whether  she  stands  sometimes  upon  one  leg,  and  sometimes  on  another  ; 
whether  she  repeats  three  or  four  times  the  answer  which  she  gives  thee,  or  changes  it  from  kind 
to  cruel,  and  then  again  from  cruel  to  kind  ; whether  she  does  not  seem  to  adjust  her  hair,  though 
every  lock  appears  in  perfect  order.  In  short,  observe  all  her  actions,  every  motion,  every  gesture; 
for  by  the  accurate  relation  which  thou  givest  of  these  things,  I shall  divine  the  secrets  of  her  breast, 
and  draw  just  inferences  in  relation  to  my  amour.  Go,  then,  my  trusty  squire  ! thy  own  better 
stars,  not  mine,  attend  thee,  and  meet  with  a more  prosperous  event  than  that  which  in  this 
doleful  desert,  tossed  between  hopes  and  fears,  I dare  expect.” 

“ I will  go,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ and  I will  be  back  in  a trice  : meanwhile  cheer  up,  I beseech 
you  ; come,  sir,  comfort  that  little  heart  of  yours,  no  bigger  than  a hazel-nut ! Don’t  be  cast  down, 
I say  ; remember  the  old  sayings,  ‘ Faint  heart  never  won  fair  lad)- ;’  ‘ Where  there  is  no  hook,  to 
be  sure  there  will  hang  no  bacon;’  ‘The  hare  leaps  out  of  the  bush  where  we  least  look  for  her.  I 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


433 

speak  this  to  give  you  to  understand  that  though  we  could  not  find  my  lady’s  castle  in  the  night, 
I may  light  on  it  when  I least  think  on  it  now  it  is  day ; and  when  I have  found  it,  let  me  alone  to 
deal  with  her.” 

“ Well,  Sancho,”  said  the  knight,  “ thou  hast  a rare  talent  in  applying  thy  proverbs ; Heaven 
give  thee  better  success  in  thy  designs ! ” 

This  said,  Sancho  turned  his  back,  and  switching  his  Dapple,  left  the  Don  on  horseback, 
leaning  on  his  lance,  and  resting  on  his  stirrups,  full  of  melancholy  and  confused  imaginations.  Let 
us  leave  him  too,  to  go  along  with  Sancho,  who  was  no  less  uneasy  in  his  mind. 

No  sooner  was  he  got  out  of  the  grove,  but  turning  about,  and  perceiving  his  master  quite 
out  of  sight,  he  dismounted,  and  laying  himself  down  at  the  foot  of  a tree,  thus  began  to  hold  a 
parley  with  himself. 

“ Friend  Sancho,”  quoth  he,  “ pray  let  me  ask  you  whither  your  worship  is  a-going  ? Is  it  to 
seek  some  ass  you  have  lost  ?”  “ No,  by  my  troth.”  “ What  is  it,  then,  thou  art  hunting  after  ? ” 

“ Why,  I am  looking,  you  must  know,  for  a thing  of  nothing,  only  a princess,  and  in  her  the  sun  of 
beauty,  forsooth,  and  all  heaven  together.”  “ Well,  and  where  dost  thou  think  to  find  all  this, 
friend  of  mine  ?”  “ Where  ? why,  in  the  great  city  of  Toboso.”  “ And  pray,  sir,  who  set  you  to 

work  ?”  “ Who  set  me  to  work  ? There  is  a question  ! Why,  who  but  the  most  renowned  Don 

Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ? he  that  rights  the  wrong,  that  gives  drink  to  the  hungry,  and  meat  to  those 
that  are  dry.”  “ Very  good,  sir ; but  pray  dost  know  where  she  lives  ?”  “ Not  I,  indeed  ; but 
my  master  says  it  is  somewhere  in  a king’s  palace  or  stately  castle.”  “ And  hast  thou  ever  seen 
her,  trow  ?”  “ No,  marry,  han’t  I ; why,  my  master  himself  never  set  eyes  on  her  in  his  life.” 

“ But  tell  me,  Sancho,  what  if  the  people  of  Toboso  should  know  that  you  are  come  to  inveigle 
their  princesses,  and  make  their  ladies  run  astray,  and  should  baste  your  carcase  handsomely,  and 
leave  you  never  a sound  rib — do  you  not  think  they  would  be  mightily  in  the  right  on  it  ?”  “ Why, 
troth,  they  would  not  be  much  in  the  wrong,  though  methinks  they  should  consider,  too,  that  I am 
but  a servant,  and  sent  on  another  body’s  errand,  and  so  I am  not  at  all  in  fault.”  “ Nay,  never 
trust  to  that,  Sancho,  for  your  people  of  La  Mancha  are  plaguy  hot  and  toucheous,  and  will  endure 
no  tricks  to  be  put  upon  them  : bless  me ! if  they  but  touch  thee,  they  will  maul  thee  after  a 
strange  rate.”  “ No,  no;  ‘fore-warned,  fore-armed.’  Why  do  I go  about  to  look  for  more  feet  than 
a cat  has  for  another  man’s  maggot  ? Besides,  when  all  is  done,  I may  perhaps  as  well  look  for  a 
needle  in  a bottle  of  hay,  or  for  a scholar  at  Salamanca,  as  for  Dulcinea  all  over  the  town  of 
Toboso.  Well,  it  is  mischief,  and  nothing  else,  that  has  put  me  upon  this  troublesome  piece 
of  work.” 

This  was  the  dialogue  Sancho  had  with  himself ; and  the  consequence  of  it  was  the  following 
soliloquy  : “ Well,  there  is  a remedy  for  all  things  but  death,  which  will  be  sure  to  lay  us  flat  one 
time  or  other.  This  master  of  mine,  by  a thousand  tokens  I have  seen,  is  a downright  madman, 
and  I think  I come  within  an  inch  of  him  ; nay,  I am  the  greatest  cod’s-head  of  the  two  to  serve 
and  follow  him  as  I do,  if  the  proverb  be  not  a liar — ‘ Show  me  thy  company,  I will  tell  thee 

55 


434 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


what  thou  art ; ’ and  the  other  old  saw,  ‘ Birds  of  a feather  flock  together.’  Now,  then,  my  master 
being  mad,  and  so  very  mad  as  to  mistake  sometimes  one  thing  for  another,  black  for  white,  and 
white  for  black — as  when  he  took  the  windmills  for  giants,  the  friars’  mules  for  dromedaries,  and 
the  flock  of  sheep  for  armies,  and  much  more  to  the  same  tune — I guess  it  will  be  no  hard  matter 
to  pass  upon  him  the  first  country  wench  I shall  meet  with  for  the  Lady  Dulcinea.  If  he  won’t 
believe  it,  I will  swear  it ; if  he  swear  again,  I will  out-swear  him ; and  if  he  be  positive,  I will  be 
more  positive  than  he,  and  stand  to  it,  and  outface  him  in  it,  come  what  will  on  it ; so  that  when 
he  finds  I won’t  flinch,  he  will  either  resolve  never  to  send  me  more  of  his  sleeveless  errands, 
seeing  what  a lame  account  I bring  him,  or  he  will  think  some  one  of  those  wicked  wizards  who, 
he  says,  owe  him  a grudge,  has  transmogrified  her  into  some  other  shape  out  of  spite.” 

This  happy  contrivance  helped  to  compose  Sancho’s  mind,  and  now  he  looked  on  his  grand 
affair  to  be  as  good  as  done.  Having,  therefore,  stayed  till  the  evening,  that  his  master  might 
think  he  had  employed  so  much  time  in  going  and  coming,  things  fell  out  very  luckily  for  him  ; 
for  as  he  arose  to  mount  his  Dapple,  he  spied  three  country  wenches  coming  towards  him  from 
Toboso,  upon  three  young  asses  ; whether  male  or  female,  the  author  has  left  undetermined, 
though  we  may  reasonably  suppose  they  were  she  asses,  such  being  most  frequently  used  to  ride 
on  by  country  lasses  in  those  parts.  But  this  being  no  very  material  circumstance,  we  need  not 
dwell  any  longer  upon  the  decision  of  that  point.  It  is  sufficient  they  were  asses,  and  discovered 
by  Sancho  ; who  thereupon  made  all  the  haste  he  could  to  get  to  his  master,  and  found  him 
breathing  out  a thousand  sighs  and  amorous  lamentations. 

“Well,  my  Sancho!”  said  the  knight,  immediately  upon  his  approach,  “what  news?  are  we 
to  mark  this  day  with  a white  or  a black  stone  ?” 

“ Even  mark  it  rather  with  red  ochre,”  answered  Sancho,  “ as  they  do  church  chairs,  that 
everybody  may  know  who  they  belong  to.” 

“ Why,  then,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I suppose  thou  bringest  good  news.” 

“ Ay,  marry  do  I,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ you  have  no  more  to  do  but  to  clap  spurs  to  Rozinante, 

and  get  into  the  open  fields,  and  you  will  see  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  with  a brace  of 
her  damsels,  coming  to  see  your  worship.” 

“Blessed  heavens!”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “what  art  thou  saying,  my  dear  Sancho?  Take 
heed,  and  do  not  presume  to  beguile  my  real  grief  with  a delusive  joy.” 

“ Bless  me,  sir  ! ” said  Sancho,  “ what  should  I get  by  putting  a trick  upon  you,  and 
being  found  out  the  next  moment  ? Seeing  is  believing,  all  the  world  over.  Come,  sir ! put  on, 
put  on,  and  you  will  see  our  lady  princess  coming,  dressed  up  and  bedecked  like  her  own  sweet 
self  indeed.  Her  damsels  and  she  are  all  one  spark  of  gold  ; all  pearls,  all  diamonds,  all  rubies, 

ail  cloth  of  gold  above  ten  inches  high  ; their  hair  spread  over  their  shoulders  like  so  many 

sunbeams,  and  dangling  and  dancing  in  the  wind  ; and  what  is  more,  they  ride  upon  three 
gambling  hags  ; there  is  not  a piece  of  horseflesh  can  match  them  in  three  kingdoms.” 

“Ambling  nags,  thou  meanest,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Ouixote. 

O <j  ' 1 ' 


Don  Quixote  gazed  with  dubious  and  disconsolate  eyes  on  the  creature  whom  Sancho  called  queen  and  lady/’ — j),  4 


436 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Gambling  hags,  or  ambling  nags,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ there  is  no  such  difference  methinks ; but 
be  they  what  they  will,  I am  sure  I never  set  eyes  on  finer  creatures  than  those  that  ride  upon 
their  backs,  especially  my  lady  Dulcinea ; it  would  make  one  swoon  away  but  to  look  upon  her.” 

“ Let  us  move,  then,  my  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  as  a gratification  for  these  uneX' 
pected  happy  tidings,  I freely  bestow  on  thee  the  best  spoils  the  next  adventure  we  meet  with  shall 
afford  ; and  if  that  content  thee  not,  take  the  colts  which  my  three  mares  thou  knowest  of  are  now 
ready  to  foal  on  our  town  common.” 

“ Thank  you  for  the  colts,”  said  Sancho ; “ but  as  for  the  spoils,  I am  not  sure  they  will 
be  worth  anything.” 

They  were  now  got  out  of  the  wood,  and  discovered  the  three  country  lasses  at  a small 
distance.  Don  Quixote  casting  his  eyes  toward  Toboso,  and  seeing  nobody  on  the  road  but 
the  three  wenches,  was  strangely  troubled  in  mind  ; and  turning  to  Sancho,  asked  him  whether 
the  princess  and  her  damsels  were  come  out  of  the  city  when  he  lett  them. 

“Out  of  the  city!”  cried  Sancho;  “why,  where  are  your  eyes?  are  they  in  your  heels,  in 
the  name  of  wonder,  that  you  cannot  see  them  coming  towards  us,  shining  as  bright  as  the  sun 
at  noon-day?” 

“ I see  nothing,”  returned  Don  Quixote,  “ but  three  wenches  upon  as  many  asses.” 

“Now  heaven  deliver  me  from  all  evil!”  quoth  Sancho.  “Is  it  possible  your  worship 
should  mistake  three  what  d’ye-call-ems — three  ambling  nags,  I mean,  as  white  as  driven  snow,  for 
three  ragged  ass  colts  ? I will  even  pull  off  my  beard  by  the  roots  an’t  be  so.” 

“ Take  it  from  me,  friend  Sancho,”  said  the  knight;  they  are  either  he  or  she  asses,  as  sure 
as  I am  Don  Quixote  and  thou  Sancho  Panza  ; at  least,  they  appear  to  be  such.” 

“ Come,  sir,”  quoth  the  squire,  “ do  not  talk  at  that  rate,  but  snuff  your  eyes,  and  go  pay 
your  homage  to  the  mistress  of  your  soul,  for  she  is  near  at  hand.”  And  so  saying,  Sancho 
hastens  up  to  the  three  country  wenches  ; and,  alighting  from  Dapple,  took  hold  of  one  of  the 
asses  by  the  halter,  and  falling  on  his  knees,  “ Queen  and  princess,  and  duchess  of  beauty  ! an’t 
please  your  haughtiness  and  greatness,”  quoth  he,  “ vouchsafe  to  take  into  your  good  grace 
and  liking  yonder  knight,  your  prisoner  and  captive,  who  is  turned  of  a sudden  into  cold 
marble  stone,  and  struck  all  of  a heap,  to  see  himself  before  your  high  and  mightiness.  I 
am  Sancho  Panza,  his  squire,  and  he  himself  the  wandering,  weather-beaten  knight,  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,  otherwise  called  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  figure.” 

By  this  time,  Don  Quixote,  having  placed  himself  down  on  his  knees  by  Sancho,  gazed 
with  dubious  and  disconsolate  eyes  on  the  creature  whom  Sancho  called  queen  and  lady  ; and, 
perceiving  her  to  be  no  more  than  a plain  country  wench,  so  far  from  being  well-favoured  that  she 
was  blubber-cheeked  and  flat-nosed,  he  was  lost  in  astonishment,  and  could  not  utter  one  word. 
On  the  other  side,  the  wenches  were  no  less  surprised  to  see  themselves  stopped  by  two  men 
in  such  different  outsides,  and  on  their  knees.  But  at  last,  she  whose  ass  was  held  by  Sancho 
took  courage,  and  broke  silence  in  an  angry  tone. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


4.37 


“ Come,”  cried  she,  “ get  out  of  our  way,  and  let  us  go  about  our  business,  for  we  are  in 
haste.” 

“Oh,  princess,  and  universal  Lady  of  Toboso!”  answered  Sancho,  “why  does  not  that  great 
heart  of  yours  melt  to  see  the  post  and  pillar  of  knight-errantry  fall  down  before  your  high  and 
mighty  presence  ?” 

“ Heyday  I”  quoth  another  of  the  females,  hearing  this,  “ what  is  here  to  do  ? Look  how 
your  small  gentry  come  to  jeer  and  flout  poor  country  girls,  as  if  we  could  not  give  them  as  good 
as  they  bring.  Go,  get  about  your  business,  and  let  us  go  about  ours,  and  speed  you  well !” 

“ Rise,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  hearing  this,  “ for  I am  now  convinced  that  my  malicious 
stars,  not  yet  satisfied  with  my  past  misfortunes,  still  shed  their  baleful  influence,  and  have  barred 
all  the  passages  that  could  convey  relief  to  my  miserable  soul  in  this  frail  habitation  of  animated 
clay.  Oh,  thou  extremity  of  all  that  is  valuable,  masterpiece  of  all  human  perfection,  and  only 
comfort  of  this  afflicted  heart,  thy  adorer,  though  now  a spiteful  enchanter  persecutes  me  and 
fascinates  my  sight,  hiding  with  mists  and  cataracts  from  me,  and  me  alone,  those  peerless 
beauties  under  the  foul  disguise  of  rustic  deformity,  if  he  has  not  transformed  thy  faithful  knight 
into  some  ugly  shape,  to  make  me  loathsome  to  thy  sight,  look  on  me  with  a smiling,  loving 
eye  ; and  in  the  submission  and  genuflection  which  I pay  to  thy  beauty,  even  under  the  fatal 
cloud  that  obscures  it,  read  the  humility  with  which  my  soul  adores  thee.” 

“ Tittle-tattle  !”  quoth  the  country  wench  ; “spare  your  breath  to  cool  your  porridge,  and  rid 
me  of  your  idle  gibberish.  Get  you  on,  sir,  and  let  us  go  ; and  we  shall  think  it  a kindness.” 

This  said,  Sancho  made  way  for  her,  and  let  her  pass,  overjoyed  his  plot  had  succeeded  so 
well.  The  imaginary  Dulcinea  was  no  sooner  at  liberty,  but  punching  her  ass  with  the  end  of  a 
staff  which  she  had  in  her  hand,  she  began  to  scour  along  the  plain  ; but  the  angry  beast,  not 
being  used  to  such  smart  instigations,  fell  a-kicking  and  wincing  at  such  a rate,  that  down  came  my 
Lady  Dulcinea.  Presently,  Don  Quixote  ran  to  help  her  up,  and  Sancho  to  re-settle  and  gird  her 
pack-saddle,  that  hung  under  the  ass’s  belly  ; which  being  done,  the  knight,  very  courteously,  was 
going  to  take  his  enchanted  mistress  in  his  arms,  to  set  her  on  her  saddle  ; but  she,  being  now 
got  on  her  legs,  took  a run,  and  clapping  her  hands  upon  the  ass’s  crupper,  at  one  jump  leaped  into 
her  pannel  as  swift  as  a hawk,  and  there  she  sat. 

“Well,  I declare!”  quoth  Sancho,  “our  lady  mistress  is  as  nimble  as  an  eel.  Let  me 
be  hanged  if  I don’t  think  she  might  teach  the  best  jockey  in  Cordova  or  Mexico  to  mount  on 
horseback.  At  one  jump  she  was  vaulted  into  the  saddle,  and,  without  spurs,  makes  her  nag 
smoke  it  away  like  a greyhound!  her  damsels  are  notable  whipsters  too;  they  don’t  come  much 
short  of  her,  for  they  fly  like  the  wind.” 

Indeed,  he  said  true,  for  when  Dulcinea  was  once  mounted,  they  both  made  after  her  full 
speed,  without  so  much  as  looking  behind  them  for  above  half  a league. 

Don  Quixote  followed  them,  as  far  as  he  could,  with  his  eyes  ; and  when  they  were  quite 
out  of  sight,  turning  to  his  squire,  “ Now,  Sancho,”  said  he,  “ what  thinkest  thou  of  this  matter  ? 


4 DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

Are  not  these  base  enchanters  inexorable  ? How  extensive  is  their  spite,  thus  to  deprive  me  of 
the  happiness  of  seeing  the  object  of  my  wishes  in  her  natural  shape  and  glory  ! Sure,  I was 
doomed  to  be  an  example  of  misfortunes,  and  the  mark  against  which  those  caitiffs  are  employed 
to  shoot  all  the  arrows  of  their  hatred.  But  tell  me,  Sancho,  that  saddle,  which  appeared  to  me 
to  be  the  pannel  of  an  ass,  was  it  a pillion  or  side  saddle  ?” 

“It  was  a pad  saddle,"  answered  Sancho,  “with  a field  covering,  and  so  rich  that  it  might 
purchase  half  a kingdom.” 

“ And  could  not  I see  all  this  ?”  cried  Don  Quixote.  “ Well,  I have  said  it,  and  must 
repeat  it  a thousand  times  : I am  the  most  unfortunate  man  in  the  universe." 

The  cunning  rogue  of  a squire,  hearing  his  master  talk  at  that  rate,  could  hardly  keep  his 
countenance  and  refrain  from  laughing,  to  see  how  admirably  he  had  fooled  him.  At  last,  after 
a great  deal  of  discourse  of  the  same  nature,  they  both  mounted  again,  and  took  the  road  for 
Saragosa,  designing  to  be  present  at  the  most  celebrated  festivals  and  sports  that  are  solemnised 
every  year  in  that  noble  city.  But  they  met  with  many  accidents  by  the  way,  and  those  so 
extraordinary,  and  worthy  the  reader’s  information,  that  they  must  not  be  passed  over  unrecorded 
nor  unread,  as  shall  appear  from  what  follows. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

OF  THE  STUPENDOUS  ADVENTURE  THAT  BEFELL  THE  VALOROUS  DON  QUIXOTE,  WITH  THE  CHARIOT  OR 

CART  OF  THE  COURT  OR  PARLIAMENT  OF  DEATH. 

DON  QUIXOTE  rode  on  very  melancholic ; the  malice  of  the  magicians,  in  transforming 
his  Lady  Dulcinea,  perplexed  him  strangely,  and  set  his  thoughts  upon  the  rack  how 
to  dissolve  the  enchantment,  and  restore  her  to  her  former  beauty.  In  this  disconsolate  con. 
dition,  he  went  on  abandoned  to  distraction,  carelessly  giving  Rozinante  the  reins  ; and  the  horse, 
finding  himself  at  liberty,  and  tempted  by  the  goodness  of  the  grass,  took  the  opportunity  to 
feed  very  heartily  ; which  Sancho  perceiving,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  rousing  him  from  his  waking  dream, 
“ sorrow  was  never  designed  for  beasts,  but  men  ; but  yet,  let  me  tell  you,  if  men  give  way  to  it 
too  much,  they  make  beasts  of  themselves.  Come,  sir,  awake,  awake  by  any  means!  pull  up  the 
reins,  and  ride  like  a man  ; cheer  up,  and  show  yourself  a knight-errant.  What  is  it  that  ails 
you  ? Was  ever  a man  so  moped  ? ‘Are  we  here,  or  are  we  in  France  ?’  as  the  saying  is.  Let 
all  the  Dulcineas  in  the  world  be  doomed  to  poverty,  rather  than  one  single  knight-errant  be  cast 
down  at  this  rate.” 

“Hold,  Sancho!”  cried  Don  Quixote,  with  more  spirit  than  one  would  have  expected; 
“ hold,  I say ! not  a detracting  word  against  that  beauteous  enchanted  lady ; for  all  her  mis- 


440 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


fortunes  are  chargeable  on  the  unhappy  Don  Quixote,  and  flow  from  the  envy  which  those  necro- 
mancers bear  to  me.” 

“ So  say  I,  sir,”  replied  the  squire  ; “ for  would  it  not  vex  any  one  that  had  seen  her  before 
to  see  her  now  as  you  saw  her  ?” 

“ Ah ! Sancho,”  said  the  knight,  “ thy  eyes  were  blessed  with  a view  of  her  perfections  in 
their  entire  lustre  ; thou  hast  reason  to  say  so.  Against  me — against  my  eyes  only — is  the  malice 
of  her  transformation  directed.  But  now  I think  on  it,  Sancho,  thy  description  of  her  beauty  was 
a little  absurd  in  that  particular  of  comparing  her  eyes  to  pearls.  Sure,  such  eyes  are  more  like 
those  of  a whiting  or  a sea-bream,  than  those  of  a fair  lady  ; and  in  my  opinion,  Dulcinea’s  eyes 
are  rather  like  two  verdant  emeralds,  railed  in  with  two  celestial  arches,  which  signify  her  eye- 
brows. Therefore,  Sancho,  you  must  take  your  pearls  from  her  eyes,  and  apply  them  to  her  teeth, 
for  I verily  believe  you  mistook  the  one  for  the  other.” 

“ Troth,  sir,  it  might  be  so,”  replied  Sancho  ; “ for  her  beauty  confounded  me  as  much  as  her 
ugliness  did  you.  But  let  us  leave  all  to  Heaven,  that  knows  all  things  that  befall  us  in  this  vale 
of  misery — this  wicked,  troublesome  world,  where  we  can  be  sure  of  nothing  without  some  spice  of 
knavery  or  imposture.  In  the  meantime,  there  is  a thing  comes  into  my  head  that  puzzles 
me  plaguily.  Pray,  sir,  when  you  get  the  better  of  any  giant  or  knight,  and  send  them  to  pay 

homage  to  the  beauty  of  your  lady  and  mistress,  how  will  the  poor  knight  or  giant  be  able 

to  find  this  same  Dulcinea  ? I cannot  but  think  how  they  will  have  to  seek,  how  they  will 
saunter  about,  gaping  and  staring  all  over  Toboso  town  ; and  if  they  should  meet  her  full  butt 

in  the  middle  of  the  king’s  highway,  yet  they  will  know  her  no  more  than  they  can  know  my 

father.” 

“ Perhaps,  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “the  force  of  her  enchantment  does  not  extend 
so  far  as  to  debar  vanquished  knights  and  giants  from  the  privilege  of  seeing  her  in  her  unclouded 
beauties.  I will  try  the  experiment  on  the  first  I conquer,  and  will  command  them  to  return 
immediately  to  me,  to  inform  me  of  their  success.” 

“ I like  what  you  say  main  well,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ we  may  chance  to  find  out  the  truth  by 
this  means  : and  if  so  be  my  lady  is  only  hid  from  your  worship,  she  has  not  so  much  reason 
to  complain  as  you  may  have.  But  when  all  comes  to  all,  so  our  mistress  be  safe  and  sound, 
let  us  make  the  best  of  a bad  market,  and  even  go  seek  adventures.  The  rest  we  will  leave 

to  time,  which  is  the  best  doctor  in  such  cases — nay,  in  worse  diseases.” 

Don  Quixote  was  going  to  return  an  answer,  but  was  interrupted  by  a cart  that  was  crossing 
the  road.  He  that  drove  it  was  a hideous  being,  and  the  cart  being  open,  without  either  tilt 
or  boughs,  exposed  a number  of  the  most  surprising  and  different  shapes  imaginable.  The  first 

figure  that  appeared  to  Don  Quixote  was  no  less  than  Death  itself,  though  with  a human 

countenance.  On  the  one  side  of  Death  stood  an  angel,  with  large  wings  of  different  colours ; 
on  the  other  side  was  placed  an  emperor,  with  a crown  that  seemed  to  be  of  gold  ; at  the  feet 
of  Death  lay  Cupid,  with  his  bow,  quiver,  and  arrows,  but  not  blindfold.  Next  to  these  a knight 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

44 1 

appeared,  completely  armed  except  his  head ; on  which,  instead  of  a helmet,  he  wore  a hat, 
whereon  was  mounted  a large  plume  of  party-coloured  feathers.  There  were  also  several  other 
persons  in  strange  and  various  dresses.  This  strange  appearance  at  first  somewhat  surprised 
Don  Quixote,  and  frighted  the  poor  squire  out  of  his  wits ; but  presently  the  knight  cleared  up  on 
second  thoughts,  imagining  it  some  rare  and  hazardous  adventure  that  called  on  his  courage. 
Pleased  with  his  conceit,  and  armed  with  a resolution  able  to  confront  any  danger,  he  placed 
himself  in  the  middle  of  the  road,  and  with  a loud  and  menacing  voice,  “You  carter,  coachman, 
or  whatever  you  be,”  cried  he,  “ let  me  know  immediately  whence  you  come,  and  whither  you  go, 
and  what  strange  figures  are  those  which  load  that  carriage,  which,  by  the  freight,  rather  seems  to 
be  Charon’s  boat  than  any  terrestrial  vehicle.” 

“ Sir,”  answered  the  man  very  civilly,  stopping  his  cart,  “ we  are  strolling  players,  that  belong 
to  Angulo’s  company,  and  it  being  Corpus-Christi  tide,  we  have  this  morning  acted  a tragedy, 
called  The  Parliament  of  Death,  in  a town  yonder  behind  the  mountain,  and  this  afternoon  we 
are  to  play  it  again  in  the  town  you  see  before  us;  which  being  so  near,  we  travel  to  it  in  the  same 
clothes  we  act  in,  to  save  the  trouble  of  new  dressing  ourselves.  That  young  man  plays  Death  ; 
that  other  an  angel ; this  woman,  sir,  plays  the  queen  ; there  is  one  acts  a soldier ; he  next  to 
him  an  emperor ; and  I myself  play  the  evil  one  : and  you  must  know,  that  is  the  best  part 
in  the  play.  If  you  desire  to  be  satisfied  in  anything  else,  I will  resolve  you.” 

“ Now,  by  the  faith  of  my  function,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I find  we  ought  not  to  give  credit  to 
appearances,  before  we  have  made  the  experiment  of  feeling  them  ; for  at  the  discovery  of  such 
a scene,  I would  have  sworn  some  strange  adventure  had  been  approaching.  I wish  you  well,  good 
people.  Drive  on  to  act  your  play,  and  if  I can  be  serviceable  to  you  in  any  particular,  believe  me 
ready  to  assist  you  with  all  my  heart ; for  in  my  very  childhood  I loved  shows,  and  have  been 
a great  admirer  of  dramatic  representations  from  my  youthful  days.” 

During  this  friendly  conversation,  it  unluckily  fell  out  that  one  of  the  company,  antiquely 
dressed,  being  the  fool  of  the  play,  came  up  frisking  with  his  morrice  bells,  and  three  full-blown 
cows’  bladders  fastened  to  the  end  of  a stick.  In  this  odd  appearance  he  began  to  flourish  his 
stick  in  the  air,  and  bounce  his  bladders  against  the  ground  just  at  Rozinante’s  nose.  The 
jingling  of  the  bells  and  the  rattling  noise  of  the  bladders  so  startled  and  affrighted  the  quiet 
creature,  that  Don  Quixote  could  not  hold  him  in  ; and  having  got  the  curb  betwixt  his  teeth, 
away  the  horse  hurried  his  unwilling  rider  up  and  down  the  plain,  with  more  swiftness  than 
his  feeble  bones  seemed  to  promise.  Sancho,  considering  the  danger  of  his  master’s  being 
thrown,  presently  alighted,  and  ran  as  fast  as  he  could  to  his  assistance ; but  before  he  could 
come  up  to  him,  Rozinante  had  made  a false  step,  and  laid  his  master  and  himself  on  the 
ground,  which  was,  indeed,  the  common  end  of  Rozinante’s  mad  tricks  and  presumptuous 
racing.  On  the  other  side,  the  fool  no  sooner  saw  Sancho  slide  off  to  help  his  master,  but  he 
leaped  upon  poor  Dapple,  and  rattling  his  bladders  over  the  terrified  animal’s  head,  made  him 
fly  through  the  field  towards  the  town  where  they  were  to  play. 

50 


fool  of  the  play  came  up  frisking  with  his  morrice  bells.” — />.  441, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


443 

Sancho  beheld  his  master’s  fall  and  his  ass’s  flight  at  the  same  time,  and  stood  strangely 
divided  in  himself,  not  knowing  which  to  assist  first,  his  master  or  his  beast.  At  length,  the 
duty  of  a good  servant  and  a faithful  squire  prevailing,  he  ran  to  his  master,  though  every 
obstreperous  bounce  with  the  bladders  upon  Dapple’s  hind-quarters  struck  him  to  the  very  soul, 
and  he  could  have  wished  every  blow  upon  his  own  eye-balls  rather  than  on  the  least  hair  of  his 
ass’s  tail.  In  this  agony  of  spirits  he  came  to  Don  Quixote,  whom  he  found  in  far  worse  circum- 
stances than  the  poor  knight  could  have  wished  ; and  helping  him  to  re-mount,  “ Oh,  sir  ! ” cried 
he,  “ the  fool  is  run  away  with  Dapple.” 

“ What  fool  ? ” asked  Don  Quixote. 

“ The  one  with  the  bladders,”  answered  Sancho. 

“No  matter,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “ I will  force  the  traitor  to  restore  him,  though  he  were  to 
lock  him  up  in  the  most  profound  and  gloomy  caverns  of  earth.  Follow  me,  Sancho;  we  may 
easily  overtake  the  wagon,  and  the  mules  shall  atone  for  the  loss  of  the  ass.” 

“ You  need  not  be  in  such  haste  now,”  quoth  Sancho,  “for  I perceive  the  fool  has  left  Dapple 
already,  and  is  gone  his  ways.” 

What  Sancho  said  was  true,  for  both  ass  and  man  tumbled  for  company,  in  imitation  of  Don 
Quixote  and  Rozinante  ; and  Dapple,  having  left  his  new  rider  to  walk  on  foot  to  the  town,  now 
came  himself  running  back  to  his  master. 

“ All  this,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ shall  not  hinder  me  from  revenging  the  affront  put  upon  us  by 
that  unmannerly  fellow,  at  the  expense  of  some  of  his  companions,  though  it  were  the  emperor 
himself.” 

“ Oh,  good  your  worship  !”  cried  Sancho  ; “ never  mind  it.  I beseech  you  take  my  counsel, 
sir  : never  meddle  with  players,  there  is  never  anything  to  be  got  by  it ; they  are  a sort  of  people 
that  always  find  many  friends.  I have  known  one  of  them  taken  up  for  two  murders,  yet  escape 
the  gallows.  You  must  know  that,  as  they  are  a parcel  of  merry  wags,  and  make  sport  wherever 
they  come,  everybody  is  fond  of  them,  and  is  ready  to  stand  their  friend,  especially  if  they  be  the 
king’s  players,  or  some  of  the  noted  gangs,  who  go  at  such  a tearing  rate  that  one  might  mistake 
some  of  them  for  gentlemen  or  lords.” 

“ I care  not,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “though  all  mankind  unite  to  assist  them,  that  buffooning 
fellow  shall  never  escape  unpunished,  to  make  his  boast  that  he  has  affronted  me.”  Whereupon, 
riding  up  to  the  wagon,  which  was  now  got  pretty  near  the  town,  “Hold,  hold!”  he  cried; 
“ stay,  my  pretty  sparks ! I will  teach  you  to  be  civil  to  the  beast  that  is  entrusted  with  the 
honourable  burden  of  a squire  to  a knight-errant.” 

This  loud  salutation  having  reached  the  ears  of  the  strolling  company,  though  at  a good 
distance,  they  presently  understood  what  it  imported  ; and  resolving  to  be  ready  to  entertain  him, 
Death  presently  leaped  out  of  the  cart ; the  emperor,  the  driver,  and  the  angel  immediately 
followed ; and  even  the  queen  and  the  god  Cupid,  as  well  as  the  rest,  having  taken  up  their  share 
of  flints,  stood  ranged  in  battle  array,  ready  to  receive  their  enemy  as  soon  as  he  should  come 


444 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


within  stone-cast.  Don  Quixote,  seeing  them  drawn  up  in  such  excellent  order,  with  their  arms 
lifted  up  and  ready  to  let  fly  at  him  a furious  volley  of  shot,  made  a halt  to  consider  in  what 
quarter  he  might  attack  this  dreadful  battalion  with  least  danger  to  his  person. 

Thus  pausing,  Sancho  overtook  him,  and  seeing  him  ready  to  charge,  “ For  goodness’  sake, 
sir,”  cried  he,  “ what  d’ye  mean?  Are  you  mad,  sir?  There  is  no  fence  against  the  players’ 
bullets,  unless  you  could  fight  with  a brazen  bell  over  you.  Is  it  not  rather  rashness  than  true 
courage,  think  you,  for  one  man  to  offer  to  set  upon  a whole  army  ? where  Death  is  too,  and 
where  emperors  fight  in  person — nay,  and  where  good  and  bad  angels  are  against  you  ? But  if  all 
this  weighs  nothing  with  you,  consider,  I beseech  you,  that  though  they  seem  to  be  kings,  princes, 
and  emperors,  yet  there  is  not  so  much  as  one  knight-errant  among  them  all.” 

“ Now  thou  hast  hit  upon  the  only  point,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  could  stop  the  fury  of  my 
arm  ; for,  indeed,  as  I have  often  told  thee,  Sancho,  I am  bound  up  from  drawing  my  sword  against 
any  below  the  order  of  knighthood.  It  is  thy  business  to  fight  in  this  cause,  if  thou  hast  a just 
resentment  of  the  indignities  offered  to  thy  ass  ; and  I from  this  post  will  encourage  and  assist 
thee  with  salutary  orders  and  instructions.” 

“ No,  I thank  you,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “I  hate  revenge.  A true  Christian  must  forgive  and 
forget ; and  as  for  Dapple,  I don’t  doubt  but  to  find  him  willing  to  leave  the  matter  to  me,  and 
stand  to  my  verdict  in  the  case,  which  is  to  live  peaceably  and  quietly  as  long  as  Heaven  is 
pleased  to  let  me.” 

“ Nay,  then,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ if  that  be  thy  resolution,  good  Sancho,  prudent  Sancho, 
Christian  Sancho,  downright  Sancho,  let  us  leave  these  idle  apparitions,  and  proceed  in  search  of 
more  substantial  and  honourable  adventures,  of  which,  in  all  probability,  this  part  of  the  world 
will  afford  us  a wonderful  variety.” 

So  saying,  he  wheeled  off,  and  Sancho  followed  him.  On  the  other  side,  Death,  with  all  his 
flying  squadron,  returned  to  their  cart  and  went  on  their  journey. 

Thus  ended  the  most  dreadful  adventure  of  the  chariot  of  Death,  much  more  happily  than 
could  havp  been  expected,  thanks  to  the  laudable  counsels  which  Sancho  Panza  gave  his  master, 
who,  the  day  following,  had  another  adventure  no  less  remarkable,  with  one  that  was  a knight- 
errant  and  a lover  too. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

THE  VALOROUS  DON  QUIXOTE’S  STRANGE  ADVENTURE  WITH  THE  BOLD  KNIGHT  OF  THE  MIRRORS. 

DON  QUIXOTE  passed  the  night  that  succeeded  his  encounter  with  Death  under 
the  covert  of  some  lofty  trees  ; where,  at  Sancho’s  persuasion,  he  refreshed  himself 
with  some  of  the  provisions  which  Dapple  carried.  As  they  were  at  supper,  “ Well,  sir,”  quoth 
the  squire,  “ what  a rare  fool  I had  been,  had  I chosen  for  my  good  news  the  spoils  of  your 
first  venture,  instead  of  the  breed  of  the  three  mares  ! Troth  ! commend  me  to  the  saying,  ‘ A 
bird  in  hand  is  worth  two  in  the  bush.’  ” 

“ However,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ hadst  thou  let  me  fall  on,  as  I would  have  done,  thou 
mightest  have  shared  at  least  the  emperor’s  golden  crown,  and  Cupid’s  painted  wings  ; for  I 
would  have  plucked  them  off,  and  put  them  into  thy  power.” 

“ Ah  ! but,”  said  Sancho,  “ your  strolling  emperors’  crowns  and  sceptres  are  not  of  pure 
gold,  but  tinsel  and  copper.” 

“ I grant  it,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ nor  is  it  fit  the  decorations  of  the  stage  should  be 
real,  but  rather  imitations,  and  the  resemblance  of  realities,  as  the  plays  themselves  must  be  ; 
which,  by  the  way,  I would  have  you  love  and  esteem,  Sancho,  and  consequently  those  that 
write  and  also  those  that  act  them  ; for  they  are  all  instrumental  to  the  good  of  the  common- 
wealth, and  set  before  our  eyes  those  looking-glasses  that  reflect  a lively  representation  of 
human  life — nothing  being  able  to  give  us  a more  just  idea  of  Nature,  and  what  we  are  or 
ought  to  be,  than  comedians  and  comedies.  Prithee  tell  me,  hast  thou  never  seen  a play 
acted,  where  kings,  emperors,  prelates,  knights,  ladies,  and  other  characters  are  introduced  on 
the  stage  ? One  acts  a ruffian,  another  a soldier ; this  man  a cheat,  and  that  a merchant ; one 


445  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

plays  a designing  fool,  and  another  a foolish  lover  : but  the  play  done,  and  the  actors 
undressed,  they  are  all  equal,  and  as  they  were  before.” 

“ All  this  I have  seen,”  quoth  Sancho. 

“ Just  such  a comedy,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ is  acted  on  the  great  stage  of  the  world, 
where  some  play  the  emperors,  others  the  prelates,  and,  in  short,  all  the  parts  that  can  be 
brought  into  a dramatic  piece  ; till  death,  which  is  the  catastrophe  and  end  of  the  action,  strips 
the  actors  of  all  their  marks  of  distinction,  and  levels  their  quality  in  the  grave.” 

“ A rare  comparison,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ though  not  so  new  but  that  I have  heard  it  over  and 
over.  Just  such  another  is  that  of  a game  at  chess,  where,  while  the  play  lasts,  every  piece  has 
its  particular  office  ; but  when  the  game  is  over,  they  are  all  mingled  and  huddled  together,  and 
clapped  into  a bag,  just  as,  when  life  is  ended,  we  are  laid  in  the  grave.” 

“ Truly,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “thy  simplicity  lessens,  and  thy  sense  improves  every 
day.” 

“ And  good  reason  why,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ some  of  your  worship’s  wit  must  needs  stick  to 
me ; for  your  dry,  unkindly  land,  with  good  dunging  and  tilling,  will  in  time  yield  a good 
crop.  I mean,  sir,  that  your  conversation  being  thrown  on  the  barren  ground  of  my  wit, 
together  with  the  time  I have  served  your  worship  and  kept  you  company,  which  is,  as  a body 
may  say,  the  tillage,  I must  needs  bring  forth  blessed  fruit  at  last,  so  as  not  to  shame  my 
master,  but  keep  in  the  paths  of  good  manners,  which  you  have  beaten  into  my  sodden 
understanding.” 

Sancho’s  affected  style  made  Don  Quixote  laugh,  though  he  thought  his  words  true  in  the 
main  ; and  he  could  not  but  admire  his  improvement.  But  the  fellow  never  discovered  his 
weakness  so  much  as  by  endeavouring  to  hide  it,  being  most  apt  to  tumble  when  he  strove  to  soar 
too  high.  His  excellence  lay  chiefly  in  a knack  of  drawing  proverbs  into  his  discourse,  whether 
to  the  purpose  or  not,  as  any  one  that  has  observed  his  manner  of  speaking  in  this  history  must 
have  perceived. 

In  such  discourses  they  passed  a great  part  of  the  night,  till  Sancho  wanted  to  drop  the 
portcullices  of  his  eyes,  which  was  his  way  of  saying  he  had  a mind  to  go  to  sleep.  Thereupon 
he  unharnessed  Dapple,  and  set  him  grazing ; but  Rozinante  was  condemned  to  stand  saddled 
all  night,  by  his  master’s  injunction  and  prescription,  used  of  old  by  all  knights-errant,  who  never 
unsaddled  their  steeds  in  the  field,  but  took  off  their  bridles  and  hung  them  at  the  pummel  of  the 
saddle.  However,  he  was  not  forsaken  by  faithful  Dapple,  whose  friendship  was  so  unparalleled 
and  inviolable,  that  unquestioned  tradition  has  handed  it  down  from  father  to  son  that  the  author 
of  this  true  history  composed  particular  chapters  of  the  united  affection  of  these  two  beasts, 
though,  to  preserve  the  decorum  due  to  so  heroic  a history,  he  would  not  insert  them  in  the  work. 
Yet  sometimes  he  cannot  forbear  giving  us  some  new  touches  on  that  subject ; as  when  he  writes 
that  the  two  friendly  creatures  took  a mighty  pleasure  in  being  together,  to  scrub  and  lick  one 
another ; and  when  they  had  had  enough  of  that  sport,  Rozinante  would  gently  lean  his  head  at 


448 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


least  half  a yard  over  Dapple’s  neck,  and  so  they  would  stand  very  lovingly  together,  looking 
wistfully  on  the  ground  for  some  time,  unless  somebody  made  them  leave  that  contemplative 
posture,  or  hunger  compelled  them  to  a separation.  Nay,  I cannot  pass  by  what  is  reported  of 
the  author,  how  he  left  in  writing  that  he  had  compared  their  friendship  to  that  of  Nisus  and 
Euryalus,  and  that  of  Pylades  and  Orestes,  which,  if  it  were  so,  deserves  universal  admiration  ; 
the  sincere  affection  of  these  quiet  animals  being  a just  reflection  on  men,  who  are  so  guilty  of 
breaking  their  friendship  to  one  another.  From  hence  came  the  sayings,  “ There  is  no  friend,  all 
friendship  is  gone  ; ” “Now  men  hug,  then  fight  anon;”  and  that  other,  “Where  you  see  your 
friend,  trust  to  yourself.”  Neither  should  the  world  take  it  ill  that  the  cordial  affection  of 
these  animals  was  compared  by  our  author  to  that  of  men,  since  many  important  principles 
of  prudence  and  morality  have  been  learnt  from  irrational  creatures.  The  crane  gave  mankind 
an  example  of  vigilance ; the  ant,  of  providence ; the  elephant,  of  honesty;  and  the  horse, 
of  loyalty. 

At  last,  Sancho  fell  asleep  at  the  root  of  a cork-tree,  and  his  master  went  to  slumber  under  a 
spacious  oak.  But  it  was  not  long  ere  he  was  disturbed  by  a noise  behind  him,  and  starting  up 
he  looked  and  hearkened  on  the  side  whence  he  thought  the  voice  came,  and  discovered  two  men 
on  horseback,  one  of  whom,  letting  himself  carelessly  slide  down  from  the  saddle,  and  calling 
to  the  other — “ Alight,  friend,”  said  he,  “ and  unbridle  your  horse,  for  methinks  this  place  will 
supply  them  plentifully  with  pasture,  and  me  with  silence  and  solitude  to  indulge  my  amorous 
thoughts.” 

While  he  said  this,  he  laid  himself  down  on  the  grass  ; in  doing  which,  the  armour  he  had 
on  made  a noise — a sure  sign — that  gave  Don  Quixote  to  understand  he  was  some  knight- 
errant.  Thereupon  going  to  Sancho,  who  slept  on,  he  plucked  him  by  the  arm,  and  having 
waked  him  with  much  ado — “ Friend  Sancho,”  said  he,  whispering  him  in  his  ear,  “here  is 
an  adventure.” 

“ Heaven  grant  it  be  a good  one!”  quoth  Sancho.  “ But  where  is  that  same  lady 
adventure’s  worship  ?” 

“ Where ! dost  thou  ask,  Sancho  ? why,  turn  thy  head,  man,  and  look  yonder.  Dost 
thou  not  see  a knight-errant  there  lying  on  the  ground  ? I have  reason  to  think  he  is  in 
melancholy  circumstances,  for  I saw  him  fling  himself  off  from  his  horse,  and  stretch  himself 
on  the  ground  in  a disconsolate  manner,  and  his  armour  clashed  as  he  fell.” 

“ What  of  all  that  ? ” quoth  Sancho.  “ How  do  you  make  this  to  be  an  adventure  ?” 

“ I will  not  yet  affirm,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ that  it  is  an  adventure ; but  a very  fair  rise 
to  one  as  ever  was  seen.  But,  hark  ! he  is  tuning  some  instrument,  and  by  his  coughing  and 
spitting  he  is  clearing  his  throat  to  sing.” 

“ Troth  now,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ it  is  even  so  in  good  earnest;  and  I fancy  it  is  some 
knight  chat  is  in  love.” 

“ All  knight-errants  must  be  so,”  answered  Don  Quixote  : “ but  let  us  hearken,  and  if 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


449 


he  sings,  we  shall  know  more  of  his  circumstances  presently,  ‘ for  out  of  the  abundance  of  the 
heart  the  mouth  speaketh.’  ” 

Sancho  would  have  answered,  but  that  the  Knight  of  the  Wood’s  voice,  which  was  but 
indifferent,  interrupted  him  with  the  following 

SONG. 


I. 

Bright  queen,  how  shall  your  loving  slave 
Be  sure  not  to  displease  ? 

Some  rule  of  duty  let  him  crave  ; 

He  begs  no  other  ease. 


II. 

Say,  must  I die,  or  hopeless  live? 

I’ll  act  as  you  ordain  : 

Despair  a silent  death  shall  give, 
Or  Love  himself  complain. 


III. 

My  heart,  though  soft  as  wax,  will  prove 
Like  diamonds  firm  and  true  : 

For  what  th’  impression  can  remove 
That’s  stamp’d  by  love  and  you  ? 


The  Knight  of  the  Wood  concluded  his  song  with  a sigh,  that  seemed  to  be  fetched 
from  the  very  bottom  of  his  heart ; and  after  some  pause,  with  a mournful  and  disconsolate 
voice,  “ Oh,  most  beautiful,  but  most  ungrateful  of  womankind,”  cried  he,  “ how  is  it 
possible,  most  serene  Casildea  de  Vandaiia,  your  heart  should  consent  that  a knight  who 
idolises  your  charms  should  waste  the  flower  of  his  youth,  and  kill  himself  with  continual 
wanderings  and  hard  fatigues  ? Is  it  not  enough  that  I have  made  you  to  be  acknowledged 
the  greatest  beauty  in  the  world  by  all  the  knights  of  Navarre,  all  the  knights  of  Leon,  all 
the  Tartesians,  all  the  Castilians,  and,  in  fine,  by  all  the  knights  of  La  Mancha?” 

“ Not  so  neither,”  said  Don  Quixote  then;  “for  I myself  am  of  La  Mancha,  and  never 
acknowledged,  nor  ever  could  nor  ought  to  acknowledge,  a thing  so  injurious  to  the  beauty 
of  my  mistress  ; therefore,  Sancho,  it  is  a plain  case,  this  knight  is  out  of  his  senses.  But 
let  us  hearken ; perhaps  we  shall  discover  something  more.” 

“ That  you  will,  I warrant  you,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ for  he  seems  in  tune  to  moan  a month 
together.” 

But  it  happened  otherwise ; for  the  Knight  of  the  Wood  overhearing  them,  ceased  his 
lamentations,  and  raising  himself  on  his  feet,  in  a loud  but  courteous  tone  called  to  them 
“Who  is  there?  What  are  ye?  Are  ye  of  the  number  of  the  happy  or  the  miserable?” 

“ Of  the  miserable,”  answered  Don  Quixote. 

“ Repair  to  me  then,’  said  the  Knight  of  the  Wood,  “ and  be  assured  you  have  met  misery 
and  affliction  itself.”  Upon  so  moving  and  civil  an  invitation,  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho 
drew  near  to  him  ; and  the  mournful  knight  taking  Don  Quixote  by  the  hand,  “ Sit  down,” 
said  he,  “ Sir  Knight ; for  that  your  profession  is  chivalry  I need  no  other  conviction  than 
to  have  found  you  in  this  retirement,  where  solitude  and  the  cold  night  dews  are  your 
companions,  and  the  proper  stations  and  reposing  places  of  knights-errant.” 

57 


450 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


« j am  a knight,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ and  of  the  order  you  mention  , and  though 
my  sorrows,  and  disasters,  and  misfortunes  usurp  the  seat  of  my  mind,  I have  still  a heart 
disposed  to  entertain  the  afflictions  of  others.  Yours,  as  I gather  by  your  complaints,  is  derived 
from  love,  and,  I suppose,  owing  to  the  ingratitude  of  that  beauty  you  now  mentioned. 

While  they  were  thus  parleying,  they  sat  close  by  one  another  on  the  hard  ground,  very 
peaceably  and  lovingly,  and  not  like  men  that  by  break  of  day  were  to  break  one  another’s  heads. 

“ And  is  it  your  fortune  to  be  in  love  ? asked  the  Knight  of  the  Wood. 

“ It  is  my  misfortune,”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “though  the  reflection  of  having  placed  our 
affections  worthily  sufficiently  balances  the  weight  of  our  disasters,  and  turns  them  to  a blessing. 

“ This  might  be  true,”  replied  the  Knight  of  the  Wood,  “ if  the  disdain  of  some  mistresses 
were  not  often  so  galling  as  to  inspire  us  with  something  like  the  spirit  of  revenge. 

“ For  my  part,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I never  felt  my  mistress’s  disdain.” 

“ No,  truly,”  quoth  Sancho,  who  was  near  them ; “ for  my  lady  is  as  gentle  as  a lamb.” 

“ Is  that  your  squire  ?”  said  the  Knight  of  the  Wood. 

“It  is,”  answered  Don  Quixote. 

“ I never  saw  a squire,”  said  the  Knight  of  the  Wood,  “ that  durst  presume  to  interrupt  his 
master  when  he  was  speaking  himself.  There  is  my  fellow,  yonder  ; he  is  as  big  as  his  father, 
and  yet  no  man  can  say  he  was  ever  so  saucy  as  to  open  his  lips  when  I spoke. 

“ Well,  well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I have  talked,  and  may  talk  again,  and  before  as,  and  perhaps 

but  I have  done.” 

At  the  same  time  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  pulling  Sancho  by  the  arm,  “ Come,  brother,  said 
he,  “ let  us  two  go  where  we  may  chat  freely  by  ourselves,  like  downright  squires  as  we  are,  and 
let  our  masters  get  over  head  and  ears  in  the  stories  of  their  loves. 

“ With  all  my  heart,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ and  then  I will  tell  you  who  I am  and  what  1 am, 
and  you  shall  judge  if  I am  not  fit  to  make  one  among  the  talking  squires.  ’ 

With  that  the  two  squires  withdrew,  and  had  a dialogue  as  comical  as  that  of  their  masters 


was  serious. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

THE  ADVENTURE  WITH  THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE  WOOD  CONTINUED,  WITH  THE  WISE,  RARE,  AND  PLEASANT 

DISCOURSE  THAT  PASSED  BETWEEN  THE  TWO  SQUIRES. 

THE  knights  and  their  squires  thus  divided — the  latter  to  tell  their  lives,  and  the  former 
to  relate  their  amours — the  story  begins  with  the  Squire  of  the  Wood. 

“ Sir,”  said  he  to  Sancho,  “ this  is  a troublesome  kind  of  life  that  we  squires  of  knights- 
errant  lead.  Well  may  we  say  we  eat  our  bread  with  the  sweat  of  our  brows,  which  is 
one  of  the  curses  laid  on  our  first  parents.” 

“Well  may  we  say,  too,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ we  eat  it  with  a cold  shivering  of  our  bodies; 
for  there  are  no  poor  creatures  that  suffer  more  by  heat  or  cold  than  we  do.  Nay,  if  we 
could  but  eat  at  all,  it  would  never  vex  one,  for  ‘ good  fare  lessens  care ; ’ but  sometimes  we 
shall  go  a day  or  two,  and  never  so  much  as  breakfast,  unless  it  be  upon  the  wind  that 
blows.” 

“After  all,”  said  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “we  may  bear  with  this,  when  we  think  of 
the  reward  we  are  to  expect ; for  that  same  knight-errant  must  be  excessively  unfortunate 
that  has  not,  some  time  or  other,  the  government  of  some  island,  or  some  good,  handsome 
earldom,  to  bestow  on  his  squire.” 

“As  for  me,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I have  often  told  my  master  I would  be  contented  with  the 


452 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


government  of  any  island ; and  he  is  so  noble  and  free-hearted,  that  he  has  promised  it 
over  and  over.” 

“ For  my  part,”  quoth  the  other  squire,  “ I should  think  myself  well  paid  for  my  services 
with  some  good  canonry,  and  I have  my  master’s  word  for  it  too.” 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ belike  your  master  is  some  church-knight,  and  may  bestow 
such  livings  on  his  good  squires.  But  mine  is  purely  laic  ; some  of  his  wise  friends,  indeed 
(no  thanks  to  them  for  it),  once  upon  a time  counselled  him  to  be  an  archbishop— I fancy  they 
wished  him  no  good — but  he  would  not,  for  he  will  be  nothing  but  an  emperor.  I was 
plaguily  afraid  he  might  have  had  a hankering  after  the  Church,  and  so  have  spoiled  my  pre- 
ferment, I not  being  gifted  that  way  ; for  between  you  and  me,  though  I look  like  a man  in  a 
doublet,  I should  make  but  an  ass  in  a cassock.” 

“ Let  me  tell  you,  friend,”  quoth  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “ that  you  are  out  in  your 
politics  ; for  these  island  governments  bring  more  cost  than  worship  ; there  is  ‘ a great  cry,  but 
little  wool ; ’ the  best  will  bring  more  trouble  and  care  than  they  are  worth,  and  those  that  take 
them  on  their  shoulders  are  ready  to  sink  under  them.  I think  it  were  better  for  us  to  quit 
this  confounded  slavery,  and  e’en  jog  home,  where  we  may  entertain  ourselves  with  more 
delightful  exercises,  such  as  fishing  and  hunting,  and  the  like  ; for  he  is  a sorry  country  squire 
indeed  that  wants  his  horse,  his  couple  of  hounds,  or  his  fishing-tackle,  to  live  pleasantly 
at  home.” 

“ All  this  I can  have  at  will,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ indeed,  I have  never  a nag,  but  I have 
an  honest  ass  here  worth  two  of  my  master’s  horses  any  day  in  the  year.  A bad  Christmas 
be  my  lot,  and  may  it  be  the  next,  if  I would  change  beasts  with  him,  though  he  gave  me  four 
bushels  of  barley  to  boot — no,  marry  would  not  I.  Laugh  as  much  as  you  will  at  the  value 
I set  on  my  Dapple;  for  Dapple,  you  must  know,  is  his  colour.  Now,  as  for  hounds,  we  have 
enough  to  spare  in  our  town  ; and  there  is  no  sport  like  hunting  at  another  man’s  cost.” 

“ Faith  and  troth  ! brother  squire,”  quoth  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “ I am  fully  set  upon 
it.  These  vagrant  knights  may  e’en  seek  their  mad  adventures  by  themselves  ; for  me,  I will 

home,  and  bring  up  my  children,  as  it  behoves  me ; for  I have  three,  as  precious  as  three 

orient  pearls.” 

“ I have  but  two,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  they  might  be  presented  to  the  Pope  himself, 
especially  my  girl,  that  I bring  up  to  be  a countess  (Heaven  bless  her!)  in  spite  of  her 
mother’s  teeth.” 

“ And  how  old,  pray,”  said  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “ may  this  same  young  lady  countess 
be?” 

“ Why,  she  is  about  fifteen,”  answered  Sancho,  “ a little  over  or  a little  under ; but  she 

is  as  tall  as  a pike,  as  fresh  as  an  April  morning,  and  strong  as  a porter.” 

“ With  these  parts,”  quoth  the  other,  “ she  may  set  up  not  only  for  a countess,  but  for 
one  of  the  wood-nymphs  !” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


453 


“ H eaven  send  me  once  more  to  see  them  ! ” quoth  Sancho,  in  a grumbling  tone  ; “ and 
deliver  me  out  of  this  mortal  sin  of  squire-erranting,  which  I have  been  drawn  into  a second 
time  by  the  wicked  bait  of  a hundred  ducats,  which  the  tempter  threw  in  my  way  in  Sierra 
Morena,  and  which  he  still  haunts  me  with,  and  brings  before  my  eyes  here  and  there  and 
everywhere.  Oh,  that  plaguy  purse ! it  is  still  running  in  my  head ; methinks  I am  counting 

such  another  over  and  over.  Now  I hug  it,  now  I carry  it  home,  now  I am  buying  land 

with  it ; now  I let  leases,  now  I am  receiving  my  rents,  and  live  like  a prince.  Thus  I pass 

away  the  time,  and  this  lulls  me  on  to  drudge  on  to  the  end  of  the  chapter,  with  this  dunder- 
headed  master  of  mine,  who,  to  my  knowledge,  is  more  a madman  than  a knight.” 

“ Truly,”  said  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “ this  makes  the  proverb  true,  ‘ Covetousness  breaks 
the  sack.’  And  now  you  talk  of  madmen,  I think  my  master  is  worse  than  yours  ; for  he  is 
one  of  those  of  whom  the  proverb  says,  ‘ Fools  will  be  meddling  ; ’ and  ‘ Who  meddles  with 
another  man’s  business,  milks  his  cows  into  a sieve.’  In  searching  after  another  knight’s  wits, 
he  loses  his  own,  and  hunts  up  and  down  for  that  which  may  make  him  rue  the  finding.’  ” 

“And  is  not  the  poor  man  in  love  ?”  quoth  Sancho. 

“Ay,  marry,”  said  the  other,  “and  with  one  Casildea  de  Vandalia,  one  of  the  oddest  pieces 
in  the  world  ; she  will  neither  roast  nor  boil,  and  is  neither  fish,  flesh,  nor  good  red-herring. 
But  that  is  not  the  thing  that  plagues  his  noddle  now.  He  has  some  other  crotchets  in  his 
crown,  and  you  will  hear  more  of  it  ere  long.” 

“ There  is  no  way  so  smooth,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  it  has  a hole  or  rub  in  it  to  make  a 
body  stumble.  In  some  houses  they  boil  beans,  and  in  mine  are  whole  kettles  full.  So  madness 
has  more  need  of  good  attendants  than  wisdom.  But  if  this  old  saying  be  true,  that  ‘ it  lightens 
sorrow  to  have  companions  in  our  grief,’  you  are  the  fittest  to  comfort  me — you  serve  one 
fool,  and  I another.” 

“ My  master,”  quoth  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “ is  more  stout  than  foolish,  but  more  knave 
than  either.” 

“ Mine  is  not  like  yours,  then,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ he  has  not  one  grain  of  knavery  in  him  ; 
he  is  as  dull  as  an  old  cracked  pitcher,  hurts  nobody,  does  all  the  good  he  can  to  everybody  ; 
a child  may  persuade  him  it  is  night  at  noon-day ; and  he  is  so  simple,  that  I cannot  help 
loving  him  with  all  my  heart  and  soul,  and  cannot  leave  him,  in  spite  of  all  his  follies.” 

“Have  a care,  brother!”  said  the  Squire  of  the  Wood;  “when  the  blind  leads  the  blind, 
both  may  fall  into  the  ditch.  It  is  better  to  wheel  about  fair  and  softly,  and  steal  home 
again  to  our  own  firesides.” 

Here  the  Squire  of  the  Wood  observing  that  Sancho  spoke  as  if  he  was  very  dry,  “ I 
fancy,  brother,”  said  he,  “ that  our  tongues  stick  to  the  palates  of  our  mouths  with  talking  ; but 
to  cure  that  disease  I have  something  that  hangs  to  the  pommel  of  my  saddle,  as  good  as  ever 
was  tipped  over  tongue.”  Then  he  went  and  took  down  a leather  bottle  of  wine,  and  a cold 
pie  at  least  half  a yard  long;  which  is  no  fiction,  for  Sancho  himself,  when  he  laid  his 


454 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


hands  on  it,  took  it  rather  for  a baked  goat  than  a kid,  though  it  was  indeed  but  an  overgrown 
rabbit. 

“What!”  said  Sancho,  at  the  sight,  “did  you  bring  this  too  abroad  with  you?” 

“ What  d’ye  think  ?”  said  the  other  ; “do  you  take  me  for  one  of  your  fresh-water  squires  ? 
I’d  have  you  know,  I carry  as  good  provisions  at  my  horse’s  crupper  as  any  general  upon  his 
march.” 

Sancho  did  not  stay  for  an  invitation,  but  fell  to  in  the  dark,  cramming  down  morsels  as 
big  as  his  fist.  “ Ay,  marry,  sir,”  said  he,  “ you  are  a squire,  every  inch  of  you,  a true  and 
trusty,  round  and  sound,  noble  and  free-hearted  squire.  This  good  cheer  is  a proof  of  it,  which 
I do  not  say  jumped  hither  by  witchcraft,  but  one  would  almost  think  so.  Now,  here  sits  poor 
wretched  I,  that  have  nothing  in  my  knapsack  but  a crust  of  cheese — so  hard,  a giant  might 
break  his  grinders  in  ’t — and  a few  acorns,  walnuts,  and  filberts;  a shame  on  my  master’s 
niggardly  temper,  in  fancying  that  all  knights-errant  must  be  content  to  live  on  a little  dried 
fruit  and  salads  ! ” 

“ Well,  well,  brother,"  replied  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “ our  masters  may  diet  themselves 
by  rules  of  chivalry,  if  they  please  ; your  thistles  and  your  herbs  and  roots  do  not  at  all  agree 
with  my  stomach  ; I must  have  good  meat,  i’  faith,  and  this  bottle  here  still  at  hand  at  the 
pommel  of  my  saddle.  It  is  my  joy,  my  life,  the  comfort  of  my  soul  ; I hug  and  kiss  it  every 
moment,  and  now  recommend  it  to  you  as  the  best  friend  in  the  world.” 

Sancho  took  the  bottle,  and  rearing  it  to  his  thirsty  lips,  with  his  eyes  fixed  upon  the  stars, 
kept  himself  in  that  happy  contemplation  for  a quarter  of  an  hour  together.  At  last,  when  he 
had  taken  his  draught,  with  a deep  groan,  a nod  on  one  side,  and  a cunning  leer,  “ Now,  by 
the  remembrance  of  her  you  love  best,  pr’ythee,  tell  me,  is  not  this  your  right  Ciudad  Real 
wine  ? 

“ Thou  hast  a rare  palate,”  answered  the  Squire  of  the  Wood  ; “ it  is  the  very  same,  and 
of  a good  age  too.” 

“ I thought  so,”  said  Sancho  ; “ but  is  it  not  strange  now,  that  turn  me  but  loose  among 
a parcel  of  wines,  I shall  find  the  difference  ? Ah ! sir,  I no  sooner  clap  my  nose  to  any  kind  of 
wine,  but  I can  tell  the  place,  the  grape,  the  flavour,  the  age,  the  strength,  and  all  the  qualities 
of  the  parcel ; and  all  this  is  natural  to  me,  sir,  for  I had  two  relations,  by  the  father’s  side, 
that  were  the  nicest  tasters  that  were  known  for  a long  time  in  La  Mancha,  of  which  two  I 
will  relate  you  a story  that  makes  good  what  I said.  It  fell  out  on  a time  that  some  wine 
was  drawn  fresh  out  of  a hogshead,  and  given  to  these  same  friends  of  mine  to  taste ; and 
they  were  asked  their  opinions  of  the  condition,  the  quality,  the  goodness,  the  badness  of  the 
wine,  and  all  that.  The  one  tried  it  with  the  tip  of  his  tongue  ; the  other  only  smelled  it.  The 

first  said  the  wine  tasted  of  iron  ; the  second  said  it  rather  had  a tang  of  goat’s  leather.  The 

vintner  swore  his  vessel  was  clean,  and  the  wine  neat,  and  so  pure  that  it  could  have  no  taste 

of  any  such  thing.  Well,  time  ran  on,  the  wine  was  sold,  and  when  the  vessel  came  to  be 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA- 


455 

emptied,  what  do  you  think,  sir,  was  found  in  the  cask  ? A little  key.  with  a bit  of  leathern 
thong  tied  to  it.  Now,  judge  you  by  this  whether  he  that  comes  of  such  a generation  has  not 
reason  to  understand  wine  ?” 

“ More  reason  than  to  understand  adventures,”  answered  the  other ; “ therefore,  since  we 
have  enough,  let  us  not  trouble  ourselves  to  look  after  more,  but  e’en  jog  home  to  our  little  cots, 
where  Heaven  will  find  us,  if  it  be  its  will.” 

“ I intend,”  said  Sancho,  “ to  wait  on  my  master  till  we  come  to  Saragosa,  but  then  I will 
turn  over  a new  leaf.” 

To  conclude:  the  two  friendly  squires  having  talked  and  drank,  and  held  out  almost  as  long 
as  their  bottle,  it  was  high  time  that  sleep  should  lay  their  tongues  and  assuage  their  thirst,  for 
to  quench  it  was  impossible.  Accordingly,  they  soon  fell  fast  asleep,  both  keeping  their  hold 
on  their  almost  empty  bottle,  where  we  shall  for  a while  leave  them  to  their  rest,  and  see 
what  passed  between  their  masters. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 


A CONTINUATION  OF  THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE  WOOD. 

MANY  were  the  discourses  that  passed  between  Don  Quixote  and  the  Knight  of  the 
Wood;  amongst  the  rest,  “You  must  know,  Sir  Knight,”  said  the  latter,  “that  by 
the  appointment  of  Fate,  or  rather  by  my  own  choice,  I became  enamoured  of  the  peerless 
Casildea  de  Vandalia.  I call  her  peerless,  because  she  is  singular  in  the  greatness  of  her  stature, 
as  well  as  in  that  of  her  state  and  beauty.  But  this  lady  has  been  pleased  to  take  no  other  notice 
of  my  honourable  passion  than  employing  me  in  many  perilous  adventures,  like  Hercules’  step- 
mother ; still  promising  me,  after  I had  put  an  happy  end  to  one,  that  the  performance  of  the 
next  should  put  me  in  possession  of  my  desires.  But  after  a succession  of  numberless  labours, 
I do  not  know  which  of  her  commands  will  be  the  last  and  will  crown  my  lawful  wishes.  Once, 
by  her  particular  injunction,  I challenged  that  famous  giantess,  La  Giralda  of  Seville,  who  is  as 
strong  and  undaunted  as  one  that  is  made  of  brass,  and  who,  without  changing  place,  is  the 
most  changeable  and  inconstant  woman  in  the  world.  I went,  I saw,  and  overcame ; I made  her 
stand  still,  and  fixed  her  in  a constant  point,  for  the  space  of  a whole  week,  no  wind  having 
blown  in  the  skies  during  all  that  time  but  the  north.  Another  time  she  enjoined  me  to  remove 
the  ancient  stones  of  the  sturdy  bulls  of  Guisando,  a task  more  suitable  to  the  arms  of  porters 
than  those  of  knights.  Then  she  commanded  me  to  descend  and  dive  into  the  cavern  or  den 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


457 


of  Cabra  (a  terrible  and  unheard-of  attempt),  and  to  bring  her  an  account  of  all  the  wonders 
in  that  dismal  profundity.  I stopped  the  motion  of  La  Giralda  ; I weighed  the  bulls  of  Gui- 
sando  ; and,  with  a precipitated  fall,  plunged  and  brought  to  light  the  darkest  secrets  of  Cabra’s 
black  abyss.  But  still,  ah!  still  my  hopes  are  dead.  How  dead  ? How!  because  her  disdain 
still  lives,  still  lives  to  enjoin  me  new  labours,  new  exploits;  for,  lastly,  she  has  ordered  me  to 
traverse  the  remotest  provinces  of  Spain,  and  exact  a confession  from  all  the  knights-errant  that 
roam  about  the  land  that  her  beauty  alone  excels  that  of  all  other  women,  and  that  I am  the 
most  valiant  and  most  enamoured  knight  in  the  world.  I have  already  journeyed  over  the 

greatest  part  of  Spain  on  this  expedition,  and  overcome  many  knights  who  had  the  temerity  to 

contradict  my  assertion.  But  the  perfection  of  my  glory  is  the  result  of  my  victory  over  the 
renowned  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  whom  I conquered  in  single  combat,  and  compelled  to 
submit  his  Dulcinea’s  to  my  Casildea’s  beauty.  And  now  I reckon  the  wandering  knights  of  the 
whole  universe  all  vanquished  by  my  prowess  ; their  fame,  their  glory,  and  their  honours  being 
all  vested  in  this  great  Don  Quixote,  who  had  before  made  them  the  spoils  of  his  valorous  arm, 
though  now  they  must  attend  the  triumphs  of  my  victory,  which  is  the  greater,  since  the 
reputation  of  the  victor  rises  in  proportion  to  that  of  the  vanquished,  and  all  the  latter’s 
laurels  are  transferred  to  me.” 

Don  Quixote  was  amazed  to  hear  the  knight  run  on  at  this  rate,  and  had  the  lie  ready 
at  his  tongue’s  end  to  give  him  a thousand  times ; but  designing  to  make  him  own  his 
falsity  with  his  own  mouth,  he  strove  to  contain  his  choler ; and  arguing  the  matter  very 
calmly,  “Sir  Knight,”  said  he,  “that  your  victories  have  extended  over  all  the  knights  in  Spain, 
and  perhaps  over  the  whole  world,  I will  not  dispute ; but  that  you  have  vanquished  Don 

Quixote  de  la  Mancha  you  must  give  me  leave  to  doubt.  It  might  be  somebody  like  him, 

though  he  is  a person  whom  but  very  few  can  resemble.” 

“ What  do  ye  mean  ? ” answered  the  Knight  of  the  Wood.  “ By  yon  spangled  canopy  of 
the  skies,  I fought  Don  Quixote  hand  to  hand,  vanquished  him,  and  made  him  submit.  He  is 
a tall,  wither-faced,  leathern-jaw  fellow,  scragged,  grizzle-haired,  hawk-nosed,  and  wears  long, 
black,  lank  mustachios ; he  is  distinguished  in  the  field  by  the  title  of  the  Knight  of  the  Woful 
F igure  ; he  has  for  his  squire  one  Sancho  Panza,  a labouring  man  ; he  bestrides  and  manages 
that  far-famed  courser  Rozinante,  and  has  for  the  mistress  of  his  affection  one  Dulcinea  del  Toboso, 
sometimes  called  Aldonsa  Lorenzo  ; as  mine,  whose  name  was  Casildea,  and  who  is  of  Andalusia, 
is  now  distinguished  by  the  denomination  of  Casildea  de  Vandalia  ; and  if  all  these  convincing 
marks  be  not  sufficient  to  prove  this  truth,  I wear  a sword  that  shall  force  even  incredulity  to 
credit  it.” 

“Not  so  fast,  good  Sir  Knight,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ pray,  attend  to  what  I shall  deliver 
upon  this  head.  You  must  know  that  this  same  Don  Quixote  is  the  greatest  friend  I have  in  the 
world,  insomuch  that  I may  say  I love  him  as  well  as  I do  myself.  Now,  the  tokens  that  you 
have  described  him  by  are  so  agreeable  to  his  person  and  circumstances,  that  one  would  think 


45^ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA, 


he  should  be  the  person  you  subdued.  On  the  other  hand,  I am  convinced,  by  the  more  powerful 
argument  of  undeniable  sense,  that  it  cannot  be  he.  But  thus  far  I will  allow  you,  as  there  are 
many  enchanters  that  are  his  enemies,  especially  one  whose  malice  hourly  persecutes  him,  perhaps 
one  of  them  has  assumed  his  likeness,  thus,  by  a counterfeit  conquest,  to  defraud  him  of  the 
glory  contracted  by  his  signal  chivalry  over  all  the  universe.  In  confirmation  of  which,  I can 
farther  tell  you  it  is  but  two  days  ago  that  these  envious  magicians  transformed  the  figure  and 
the  person  of  the  beautiful  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  into  the  base  and  sordid  likeness  of  a rustic 
wench.  And  if  this  will  not  convince  you  of  your  error,  behold  Don  Quixote  himself  in 
person,  that  here  stands  ready  to  maintain  his  words  with  his  arms,  either  a-foot  or  on  horse- 
back, or  in  what  other  manner  you  may  think  convenient.” 

As  he  said  this,  up  he  started,  and  laid  his  hand  on  his  sword,  waiting  the  motions  and 
resolutions  of  the  Knight  of  the  Wood.  But  with  a great  deal  of  calmness,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ a 
good  pay-master  grudges  no  surety  ; he  that  could  once  vanquish  Don  Quixote  when  transformed 
needs  not  fear  him  in  his  proper  shape.  But  since  darkness  is  not  proper  for  the  achievements 
of  knights,  but  rather  for  robbers  and  ruffians,  let  us  await  the  morning  light,  that  the  sun  may 
be  witness  of  our  valour.  The  conditions  of  our  combat  shall  be,  that  the  conquered  shall  be 
wholly  at  the  mercy  of  the  conqueror,  who  shall  dispose  of  him  at  discretion  ; provided  always 
he  abuses  not  his  power  by  commanding  anything  unworthy  the  honour  of  knighthood.” 

“ Content,"  said  Don  Quixote.  “ I like  these  terms  very  well.” 

With  that  they  both  went  to  look  out  their  squires,  whom  they  found  snoring  very  soundly 
in  just  the  same  posture  as  when  they  first  fell  asleep.  They  roused  them  up,  and  ordered 
them  to  get  their  steeds  ready,  for  the  first  rays  of  the  rising  sun  must  behold  them  engage  in 
a fearful  and  unparalleled  single  combat. 

This  news  thunder-struck  Sancho,  and  put  him  to  his  wits’  end  for  his  master’s  danger, 
having  heard  the  Knight  of  the  Wood’s  courage  strangely  magnified  by  his  squire.  However, 
without  the  least  reply,  he  went  with  his  companion  to  seek  their  beasts,  who  by  this  time  had 
found  out  one  another,  and  were  got  lovingly  together. 

“ Well,  friend,”  said  the  squire  to  Sancho,  as  they  went,  “ I find  our  masters  are  to  fight ; 
so  you  and  I are  like  to  have  a brush  too  ; for  it  is  the  way  among  us  Andalusians  not  to  let 

the  seconds  stand  idly  by,  with  arms  across,  while  their  friends  are  at  it.” 

“ This,”  said  Sancho,  “ may  be  a custom  in  your  country  ; but,  let  me  tell  you,  it  is  a foolish 

custom,  Sir  Squire,  and  none  but  ruffians  and  evil-minded  fellows  would  stand  up  for  it ; 

but  there  is  no  such  practice  among  squires-errant,  else  my  master  would  have  minded  me  of 
it  ere  this,  for  he  has  all  the  laws  of  knight-errantry  by  heart.  But  suppose  there  be  such  a 
law,  I will  not  obey  it,  that  is  flat  ; I will  rather  pay  the  penalty  that  is  laid  on  such  peaceable 
squires.  I do  not  think  the  fine  can  be  above  two  pounds  of  wax,  and  that  will  cost  me  less 
than  the  lint  would  to  make  tents  for  my  skull,  which,  methinks,  is  already  cleft  down  to  my 
chin.  Besides,  how  would  you  have  me  fight  ? I have  ne’er  a sword,  nor  ever  wore  any.-’ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


459 


“ No  matter,”  quoth  the  Squire  of  the  Wood  ; “ I have  a cure  for  that  sore.  I have  got 
here  a couple  of  linen  bags,  both  of  a size  ; you  shall  take  one,  and  I the  other,  and  so  we 
will  let  drive  at  one  another  with  these  weapons,  and  fight  at  bag-blows.” 

“ Ay,  ay,  with  all  my  heart,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ this  will  dust  our  jackets  purely,  and  won’t 
hurt  our  skins.” 

“Not  so  neither,”  replied  the  Squire  of  the  Wood;  “for  we  will  put  half  a dozen  of 
smooth  stones  into  each  bag,  that  the  wind  may  not  blow  them  to  and  fro,  and  they  may 
play  the  better,  and  so  we  may  brush  one  another’s  coats  cleverly,  and  yet  do  ourselves  no 
great  hurt.” 

“ Smooth  stones,  indeed  !”  quoth  Sancho;  “what  soft  sable  fur,  what  dainty  carded  cotton  and 
lamb’s  wool  he  crams  into  the  bags,  to  hinder  our  making  pap  of  our  brains  and  touch-wood  of 
our  bones  ! But  I say  again  and  again,  I am  not  in  a humour  to  fight,  though  they  were  only 
full  of  silk  balls.  Let  our  masters  fight,  and  hear  on’t  hereafter ; but  let  us  drink  and  live 
while  we  may ; for  why  should  we  strive  to  end  our  lives  before  their  time  and  season,  and  be 

so  eager  to  gather  the  plums  that  will  drop  of  themselves  when  they  are  ripe  ?” 

“Well,”  said  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “for  all  that,  we  must  fight  half  an  hour  or  so.” 

“Not  a minute,”  replied  Sancho  ; “ I havn’t  the  heart  to  quarrel  with  a gentleman  with 
whom  I have  been  eating  and  drinking.  I aint  angry  with  you  in  the  least,  and  were  I to  be 
hanged  for  it,  I could  never  fight  in  cold  blood.” 

“ Nay,  if  that  be  all,”  said  the  Squire  of  the  Wood,  “ you  shall  be  angry  enough,  I’ll  warrant 
you ; for  before  we  go  to  it,  d’ye  see,  I’ll  walk  up  very  handsomely  to  you,  and  lend  your 
worship  three  or  four  sound  slaps  o’  the  chaps,  and  knock  you  down,  which  will  be  sure  to 

waken  your  choler,  though  it  slept  as  sound  as  a dormouse.” 

“ Nay,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I have  a trick  for  your  trick,  if  that  be  all,  and  you  shall 
have  as  good  as  you  bring  ; for  I will  take  me  a pretty  middling  lever  (you.  understand  me), 
and  before  you  can  awaken  my  choler,  will  I lay  yours  asleep  so  fast,  that  it  shall  never  wake 
more.  ‘Let  every  man  look  before  he  leaps;’  ‘many  come  for  wool  that  go  home  shorn;’ 
no  man  knows  what  another  can  do  ; so,  friend,  let  every  man’s  choler  sleep  with  him.  ‘ Blessed 
are  the  peace-makers,’  and  cursed  are  the  peace-breakers.  ‘ A baited  cat  may  turn  as  fierce  as  a 
lion.’  Who  knows,  then,  what  I,  that  am  a man,  may  turn  to  if  I am  provoked  ? Take  it, 
therefore,  for  a warning  from  me,  squire,  that  all  the  mischief  you  may  be  hatching  in  this 
manner  shall  lie  at  your  door.” 

“ Well,”  said  the  other,  “ it  will  be  day  anon,  and  then  we  shall  see  what  is  to  be 
done.” 

And  now  a thousand  sorts  of  pretty  birds  began  to  warble  in  the  trees,  and  with 
their  various  cheerful  notes  seemed  to  salute  the  fresh  Aurora,  who  then  displayed  her 
rising  beauties  through  the  gates  and  arches  of  the  east,  and  gently  shook  from  her  dewy 
locks  a shower  of  liquid  pearls,  sprinkling  and  enriching  the  verdant  meads  with  that  reviving 


460 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


treasure  which  seemed  to  spring  and  droo  from  the  bending  leaves.  The  willows  distilled 
their  delicious  manna,  the  rivulets  fondly  murmured,  the  fountains  smiled,  the  woods  were 
cheered,  the  fields  enriched,  at  her  approach.  But  no  sooner  had  the  dawning  light  recalled 
distinction,  than  the  first  thing  that  presented  itself  to  Sancho’s  view  was  the  Squire  of 
the  Wood’s  nose,  which  was  so  big,  that  it  overshadowed  almost  his  whole  body.  In  short, 
it  is  said  to  have  been  of  a monstrous  size,  crooked  in  the  middle,  studded  with  warts  and 
carbuncles,  tawny  as  a russet-pippin,  and  hanging  down  some  two  fingers  below  his  mouth. 
The  unreasonable  bulk,  dismal  hue,  protuberancy,  and  crookedness  of  that  nose  so  disfigured 
the  squire,  that  Sancho  was  seized  with  a trembling  at  the  sight,  like  a child  in  convulsions. 

As  for  Don  Quixote,  he  fixed  his  eyes  upon  his  antagonist ; but  as  his  helmet  was  on, 
and  he  had  pulled  down  the  beaver,  his  face  could  not  be  seen ; however,  he  observed  him 
to  be  strong-limbed,  though  not  very  tall.  Over  his  armour  he  wore  a coat  that  looked  like 
cloth  of  gold,  overspread  with  looking-glasses  (mirrors),  cut  into  half-moons,  which  made  a very 
glittering  show  ; a large  plume  of  yellow,  green,  and  white  feathers  waved  about  his  helmet ; 
and  his  lance,  which  he  had  set  up  against  a tree,  was  very  thick  and  long,  with  a steel  head 
a foot  in  length.  Don  Quixote  surveyed  every  particular,  and,  from  his  observations,  judged 
him  to  be  a man  of  great  strength.  But  all  this  was  so  fai  from  daunting  his  courage,  like 
Sancho,  that,  with  a gallant  deportment,  “ Sir  Knight  of  the  Mirrors,”  said  he,  “ if  your  eager 
desire  of  combat  has  not  made  you  deaf  to  the  entreaties  of  civility,  be  pleased  to  lift  up 
your  beaver  a while,  that  I may  see  whether  the  gracefulness  of  your  face  equals  that  of 
your  body.” 

“ Whether  you  be  vanquished  or  victorious  in  this  enterprise,”  answered  the  Knight  of 
the  Mirrors,  “ you  shall  have  leisure  enough  to  see  my  face.  I cannot  at  present  satisfy  your 
curiosity  ; for  every  moment  of  delay  is  a wrong  done  to  the  beautiful  Casildea  de  Vandalia.” 

“ However,”  replied  Don  Quixote.  “ while  we  get  a-horseback,  you  may  tell  me  whether 
I be  the  same  Don  Quixote  whom  you  pretend  to  have  overcome  ?” 

“To  this  I answer  you,”  said  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors,  “ you  are  as  like  the  knight  I 
vanquished  as  one  egg  is  like  another.  But  considering  what  you  tell  me,  that  you  are  persecuted 
by  enchanters,  I dare  not  affirm  that  you  are  the  same.” 

“It  is  enough,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “that  you  believe  you  maybe  in  error;  but  that  I may 
entirely  rid  your  doubts,  let  us  to  horse ; for  if  Providence,  my  mistress,  and  my  arm  assist 
me,  I will  see  your  face  in  less  time  than  it  would  have  cost  you  to  have  lifted  up  your  beaver, 
and  make  you  know  that  I am  not  the  Don  Quixote  whom  you  talked  of  having  vanquished.” 

This  said,  they  mounted.  Don  Quixote  wheeled  about  with  Rozinante,  to  take  ground  for 
the  career;  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors  did  the  like.  But  before  Don  Quixote  had  rode  twenty 
paces,  he  heard  him  call  to  him.  So  meeting  each  other  half  way,  “ Remember,  Sir  Knight,” 
cried  he,  “ the  condition  on  which  we  fight ; the  vanquished,  as  I told  you  before,  shall  be  at 
the  mercy  of  the  conqueror.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  46 1 

“ I grant  it,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ provided  the  victor  imposes  nothing  on  him  that 
derogates  from  the  laws  of  chivalry.” 

“ I mean  no  otherwise,”  replied  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors. 

At  the  same  time  Don  Quixote  happened  to  cast  his  eyes  on  the  squire’s  strange  nose,  and 
wondered  no  less  at  the  sight  of  it  than  Sancho,  taking  him  to  be  rather  a monster  than  a man. 
Sancho,  seeing  his  master  set  out  to  take  so  much  distance  as  was  fit  to  return  on  his  enemy  with 
greater  force,  would  not  trust  himself  along  with  Squire  Nose,  fearing  the  greater  should  be  too 
hard  for  the  less,  and  either  that  or  fear  should  strike  him  to  the  ground.  This  made  him  run  after 
his  master,  till  he  had  taken  hold  of  Rozinante’s  stirrup-leathers  ; and  when  he  thought  him  ready 
to  turn  back  to  take  his  career,  “ Good  your  worship,”  cried  he,  “ before  you  run  upon  your  enemy, 
help  me  to  get  up  into  yon  cork  tree,  where  I may  better  see  your  brave  battle  with  the  knight.” 

“ I rather  believe,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  wantest  to  be  perched  up  yonder  as  on  a scaffold, 
to  see  the  bull-baitin«'  without  danger.” 

“ To  tell  you  the  truth,”  quoth  Sancho,  “that  fellow’s  unconscionable  nose  has  so  frighted  me, 
that  I dare  not  stay  within  his  reach.” 

“ It  is,  indeed,  such  a sight,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ as  might  affect  with  fear  any  other  but 

myself,  and  therefore  come,  I will  help  thee  up.” 

Now,  while  Sancho  was  climbing  the  tree  with  his  master's  assistance,  the  Knight  of 
the  Mirrors  took  as  much  ground  as  he  thought  proper  for  his  career;  and  imagining  Don 

Quixote  had  done  the  same,  he  faced  about,  without  expecting  the  trumpet’s  sound  or  any  other 

signal  for  a charge,  and  with  his  horse  s full  speed,  which  was  no  more  than  a middling  trot, 

he  went  to  encounter  his  enemy  ; but  seeing  him  busy  in  helping  up  his  squire,  he  held  in  his 

steed,  and  stopped  in  middle  career,  for  which  the  horse  was  mightily  obliged  to  him,  being 
already  scarce  able  to  stir  a foot  farther. 

Don  Quixote,  who  thought  his  enemy  was  flying  upon  him,  set  spurs  to  Rozinante,  and 
so  wakened  his  mettle,  that  the  story  says  this  was  the  only  time  he  was  known  to  gallop  a 
little,  for  at  all  others  downright  trotting  was  his  best.  With  this  unusual  fury,  he  soon  got 

to  the  place  where  his  opponent  was  striking  his  spurs  into  his  horse’s  sides  up  to  the  very 

rowels,  without  being  able  to  make  him  stir  an  inch  from  the  spot.  Now,  while  he  was 

thus  goading  him  on,  and  at  the  same  time  encumbered  with  his  lance,  either  not  knowing 

how  to  set  it  in  the  rest,  or  wanting  time  to  do  it,  Don  Quixote,  who  took  no  notice  of 

his  disorder,  encountered  him  without  danger  so  furiously,  that  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors 

was  hurried,  in  spite  of  his  teeth,  over  his  horse’s  crupper,  and  was  so  hurt  with  falling  to 
the  ground,  that  he  lay  without  motion  or  any  sign  of  life.  Sancho  no  sooner  saw  him  fallen, 
but  down  he  conies  sliding  from  the  tree  and  runs  to  his  master,  who,  having  dismounted,  was 
got  upon  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors,  and  was  unlacing  his  helmet,  to  see  if  he  were  dead  or  alive, 
and  give  him  air  But  who  can  relate  what  he  saw  when  he  beheld  the  face  of  the  Knight  of 
the  Mirrors,  without  raising  wonder,  amazement,  or  astonishment  in  those  that  shall  hear  it  i 


462 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ He  saw,”  says  the  historian,  “in  that  face  the  very  visage,  the  very  aspect,  the  very  physiognomy, 
the  very  make,  the  very  features,  the  very  effigy  of  the  bachelor  Samson  Carrasco  !” 

“Come,  Sancho  !”  cried  lie,  as  he  saw  it,  “come  hither,  look,  and  admire  what  thou  mayest 
see,  yet  not  believe  ! Haste,  my  friend,  and  mark  the  power  of  magic — what  sorcerers  and 
enchanters  can  do  !” 

Sancho  drew  near,  and  seeing  the  bachelor  Samson  Carrasco’s  face,  began  to  cross  himself 
a thousand  times,  and  bless  himself  as  many  more. 

The  poor  defeated  knight  all  this  while  gave  no  sign  of  life. 

“ Sir,”  quoth  Sancho  to  his  master,  “ if  you  will  be  ruled  by  me,  make  sure  work.  Right  or 
wrong,  e’en  thrust  your  sword  down  this  fellow’s  throat  that  is  so  like  the  bachelor  Samson 
Carrasco,  and  so  mayhap  in  him  you  may  chance  to  murder  one  of  those  bitter  dogs — those 
enchanters  that  haunt  you  so.” 

“ That  thought  is  not  amiss,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; and  with  that,  drawing  his  sword,  he  was 
going  to  put  Sancho’s  advice  in  execution,  when  the  knight’s  squire  came  running  without  the 
nose  that  so  disguised  him  before,  and  calling  to  Don  Quixote,  “ Hold,  noble  Don  Quixote  I” 
cried  he ; “ take  heed ! beware ! tis  your  friend  Samson  Carrasco  that  now  lies  at  your 
worship’s  mercy  ; and  I am  his  squire.” 

“ And  where  is  your  nose  ?”  quoth  Sancho,  seeing  him  now  without  disguise. 

“ Here,  in  my  pocket,”  answered  the  squire  ; and,  so  saying,  he  pulled  out  the  nose  of  a. 
varnished  pasteboard  vizard,  such  as  it  has  been  described. 

Sancho  having  more  and  more  stared  him  in  the  face  with  great  earnestness,  “ Blessed 
Virgin,  defend  me!”  quoth  he;  “who  is  this?  Thomas  Cecial,  my  friend  and  neighbour!” 

“ The  same,  friend  Sancho,”  quoth  the  squire.  “ I will  tell  you  anon  by  what  tricks  and 
wheedles  he  was  inveigled  to  come  hither.  Meanwhile  desire  your  master  not  to  misuse,  nor 
slay,  nor  meddle  in  the  least  with  the  knight  that  now  lies  at  his  mercy,  for  there  is  nothing 
more  sure  than  that  it  is  our  ill-advised  countryman,  Samson  Carrasco,  and  nobody  else.” 

By  this  time  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors  began  to  come  to  himself,  which,  when  Don  Quixote 
observed,  setting  the  point  of  his  sword  to  his  throat,  “ Thou  diest,  knight,”  cried  he,  “if  thou 
refuse  to  confess  that  the  peerless  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  excels  thy  Casildea  de  Vandalia  in  beauty. 
Besides  this,  thou  shalt  promise  (if  thou  escape  with  life  from  this  combat)  to  go  to  the  city 
of  Toboso,  where,  as  from  me,  thou  shalt  present  thyself  before  the  mistress  of  my  desires,  and 
resign  thy  person  to  her  disposal ; if  she  leaves  thee  to  thy  own,  then  thou  shalt  come  back 
to  me  (for  the  track  of  my  exploits  will  be  thy  guide),  and  thou  shalt  give  me  an  account  of 
the  transaction  between  her  and  thee.” 

“ I do  confess,”  said  the  discomfited  knight,  “ that  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso’s  ripped 
and  dirty  shoe  is  preferable  to  the  clean,  though  ill-combed  locks  of  Casildea ; and  I promise 
co  go  to  her,  and  come  from  her  presence  to  yours,  and  bring  you  a full  and  true  relation 
of  all  you  have  enjoined  me.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


463 

“ You  shall  also  confess  and  believe,”  added  Don  Quixote,  “ that  the  knight  you  vanquished 
neither  was  nor  could  be  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  but  somebody  else  in  his  likeness ; as 
I,  on  the  other  side,  do  confess  and  believe  that  though  you  seem  to  be  the  bachelor  Samson 
Carrasco,  you  are  not  he,  but  some  other,  whom  my  enemies  have  transformed  into  his 
resemblance,  to  assuage  the  violence  of  my  wrath,  and  make  me  entertain  with  moderation 
the  glory  of  my  victory.” 

“ All  this  I confess,  believe,  and  allow,”  said  the  knight ; “ and  now,  I beseech  you,  let 
me  rise  ; for  I find  myself  very  much  bruised.” 

Don  Quixote  helped  him  to  rise,  by  the  aid  of  his  squire,  Thomas  Cecial,  on  whom  Sancho 
fixed  his  eyes  all  the  while,  asking  him  a thousand  questions,  the  answers  to  which  convinced 
him  that  he  was  the  real  Thomas  Cecial,  as  he  said,  though  the  conceit  of  what  was  told 
him  by  his  master,  that  the  magicians  had  transformed  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors  into  Samson 
Carrasco,  had  made  such  an  impression  on  his  fancy,  that  he  could  not  believe  the  testimony 
of  his  own  eyes.  The  Knight  of  the  Mirrors  and  his  squire,  much  out  of  humour  and  much 
out  of  order,  left  Don  Quixote,  to  go  to  some  town  where  he  might  get  some  ointments  and 
plaisters  for  his  ribs.  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  continued  their  progress  for  Saragosa,  where 
the  history  leaves  them,  to  relate  who  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors  and  his  squire  were. 


GIVING  AN  ACCOUNT  WHO  THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE  MIRRORS  AND  HIS  SQUIRE  WERE. 

DON  QUIXOTE  went  on  extremely  pleased  and  joyful,  glorying  in  the  victory  he  had 
got  over  so  valiant  a knight  as  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors,  and  relying  on  his 
parole  of  honour,  that  he  would  return  to  give  him  an  account  of  his  reception,  by  which  means 
he  expected  to  hear  whether  his  mistress  continued  under  the  bonds  of  enchantment.  But  Don 
Quixote  dreamed  of  one  thing,  and  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors  thought  of  another — his  only 
care  for  the  present  was  how  to  get  cured  of  his  bruises. 

Here  the  history  relates  that  when  the  bachelor  Carrasco  advised  Don  Quixote  to  proceed 
in  his  profession  of  knight-errantry,  it  was  the  result  of  a conference  which  he  had  with  the 
curate  and  the  barber  about  the  best  means  to  prevail  with  him  to  stay  at  home,  for  Carrasco 
thought,  and  so  did  the  rest,  that  it  was  in  vain  to  pretend  to  hinder  him  from  going  abroad 
again,  and  therefore  the  best  way  would  be  to  let  him  go,  and  that  he  should  meet  him  by  the 
way,  equipped  like  a knight-errant,  and  should  fight  and  overcome  him,  which  he  might  easily 
do;  first  making  an  agreement  that  the  vanquished  should  submit  to  the  victor’s  discretion; 
so  that,  after  the  bachelor  had  vanquished  him,  he  should  command  him  to  return  to  his  house, 
and  not  offer  to  depart  thence  for  two  years,  without  permission  ; which  it  was  not  doubted  but 
Don  Quixote  would  religiously  observe,  for  fear  of  infringing  the  laws  of  chivalry  ; and  in  this 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


46  J 

time  they  hoped  he  might  be  weaned  of  his  frenzy,  or  they  might  find  some  means  to  cure  him 
of  his  madness.  Carrasco  undertook  this  task,  and  Thomas  Cecial,  a brisk,  pleasant  fellow, 
Sancho’s  neighbour  and  gossip,  proffered  to  be  his  squire.  Samson  equipped  himself,  as  you 
have  heard,  and  Thomas  Cecial  fitted  a huge  pasteboard  nose  to  his  own,  that  his  gossip 
Sancho  might  not  know  him  when  they  met.  Then  they  followed  Don  Quixote  so  close,  that 
they  had  like  to  have  overtaken  him  in  the  midst  of  his  adventure  with  the  Chariot  of  Death  ; 
and  at  last,  they  found  him  in  the  wood  that  was  the  scene  of  their  encounter,  which  might 
have  proved  more  fatal  to  the  bachelor,  and  had  spoiled  him  for  ever  from  taking  another 
degree,  had  not  Don  Quixote  been  so  obstinate,  in  not  believing  him  to  be  the  same  man. 

And  now  Thomas  Cecial,  seeing  the  ill  success  of  their  journey,  “ By  my  troth,”  said  he, 
“ Master  Carrasco,  we  have  been  served  well  enough.  It  is  easy  to  begin  a business,  but  a 
hard  matter  to  go  through.  Don  Quixote  is  mad,  and  we  think  ourselves  wise  ; yet  he  is 
gone  away  sound,  and  laughing  in  his  sleeve ; and  your  worship  is  left  here  well  banged,, 
and  in  the  dumps.  Now,  pray,  who  is  the  greatest  madman  ? he  that  is  so  because  he  cannot 
help  it,  or  he  that  is  so  for  his  pleasure  ?” 

“ The  difference  is,”  answered  the  bachelor,  “ that  he  that  cannot  help  being  mad  will 
always  be  so  ; but  he  that  only  plays  the  fool  for  his  fancy  may  give  over  when  he  pleases.” 

“ Well,  then,”  quoth  Cecial,  “ I,  who  was  pleased  to  play  the  fool  in  going  a squire-erranting- 
with  your  worship,  for  the  selfsame  reason  will  give  it  over  now,  and  even  make  the  best  of 
my  way  home  again.” 

“ Do  as  you  will,”  replied  Carrasco,  “but  it  is  a folly  to  think  I ever  will  go  home  till 
I have  thoroughly  paid  that  madman.  It  is  not  that  he  may  recover  his  wits  neither;  no, 
it  is  pure  revenge  now,  for  the  pain  in  my  bones  won’t  give  me  leave  to  have  any  manner 
of  charity  for  him.” 

Thus  they  went  on  discoursing,  till  at  last  they  got  to  a town,  where,  by  good  fortune 
they  met  with  a bone-setter,  who  gave  the  bruised  bachelor  some  ease.  Thomas  Cecial  left 
him,  and  went  home,  while  the  other  stayed  to  meditate  revenge.  In  due  time  the  history  will 
speak  of  him  again,  but  must  not  now  forget  to  entertain  you  with  Don  Quixote’s  joy. 


/ 


69 


CHAPTER  XVI. 


WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  WITH  A SOBER  GENTLEMAN  OF  LA  MANCHA. 

DON  QUIXOTE  pursued  his  journey,  full,  as  we  said  before,  of  joy  and  satisfaction; 

his  late  victory  made  him  esteem  himself  the  most  valiant  knight-errant  of  the 
age.  He  counted  all  his  future  adventures  as  already  finished  and  happily  achieved.  He 
defied  all  enchantments  and  enchanters.  No  longer  did  he  remember  the  innumerable  blows 
he  had  received  in  the  course  of  his  errantry,  nor  the  shower  of  stones  that  had  dashed  out 
half  of  his  teeth,  nor  the  ingratitude  of  the  galley-slaves,  nor  the  insolence  of  the  Yanguesian 
carriers,  who  had  so  abominably  battered  his  ribs  with  their  pack-staves.  In  short,  he 
concluded  with  himself,  that  if  he  could  but  by  any  manner  of  means  dissolve  the  enchant- 
ment of  his  adored  Dulcinea,  he  should  have  no  need  to  envy  the  greatest  felicity  that  ever 
was  or  could  be  attained  by  the  most  fortunate  knight  in  the  habitable  globe. 

While  he  was  wholly  employed  in  these  pleasing  imaginations,  “ Sir,”  quoth  Sancho  to 

him,  “ is  it  not  a strange  thing  that  I cannot,  for  the  life  of  me,  put  out  of  my  mind  that 

unconscionable  nose  of  Thomas  Cecial,  my  gossip  ? ” 

“ How  ! Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ dost  thou  still  believe  that  the  Knight  of  the 
Mirrors  was  the  bachelor  Carrasco,  and  that  Thomas  Cecial  was  his  squire  ? ” 

“ I do  not  know  what  to  say  to  it,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  this  I am  sure  of,  that  nobody 
but  he  could  give  me  those  items  of  my  house,  and  of  my  wife  and  children,  as  he  did. 

Besides,  when  his  huge  nose  was  off,  he  had  Tom  Cecial’s  face  to  a hair.  I ought  to 

know  it,  I think  ; I have  seen  it  a hundred  and  a hundred  times,  for  we  are  but  next  door 
neighbours  ; and  then  he  had  his  speech  to  a tittle.” 

“Come  on,”  returned  Don  Quixote;  “let  us  reason  upon  this  business.  How  can  it 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


467 

enter  into  any  one’s  imagination,  that  the  bachelor  Samson  Carrasco  should  come  armed  at 
all  points  like  a knight-errant,  on  purpose  to  fight  with  me  ? Have  I ever  been  his  enemy, 
or  given  him  any  occasion  to  be  mine  ? am  I his  rival  ? or  has  he  taken  up  the  profession 
of  arms,  in  envy  of  the  glory  which  I have  purchased  by  my  sword  ?” 

“ Ay,  but  then,”  replied  Sancho,  “ what  shall  we  say  to  the  resemblance  between  this 
same  knight,  whoever  he  be,  and  the  bachelor  Carrasco,  and  the  likeness  between  his  squire 
and  my  gossip  ? If  it  is  an  enchantment,  as  your  worship  says,  were  there  no  other  people 
in  the  world  but  they  two,  to  make  them  like  ? ” 

“All,  all,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ is  the  artifice  and  delusion  of  those  malevolent  magicians 
that  persecute  me,  who,  foreseeing  that  I should  get  the  victory,  disguised  their  vanquished 
property  under  the  resemblance  of  my  friend  the  bachelor,  that  at  the  sight  my  friendship 
might  interpose  between  the  edge  of  my  sword,  and  moderate  my  just  resentment,  and  so 
rescue  him  from  death,  who  basely  had  attempted  my  life.  But  thou,  Sancho,  by  experience, 
which  could  not  deceive  thee,  knowest  how  easy  a matter  it  is  for  magicians  to  transmute 
the  face  of  any  one  into  another  resemblance,  fair  into  foul,  and  foul  again  into  fair ; since, 
not  two  days  ago,  with  thine  own  eyes  thou  beheldest  the  peerless  Dulcinea  in  her  natural 
state  of  beauty  and  proportion,  when  I,  the  object  of  their  envy,  saw  her  in  the  homely  disguise 
of  a country  wench.  Why,  then,  shouldest  thou  wonder  so  much  at  the  frightful  transformation 
of  the  bachelor  and  thy  neighbour  Cecial  ? But,  however,  this  is  a comfort  to  me,  that  I got 
the  better  of  my  enemy,  whatsoever  shape  he  assumed.” 

“ Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ Heaven  knows  the  truth  of  all  things.” 

This  was  all  the  answer  he  thought  fit  to  make ; for  as  he  knew  that  the  transformation  of 
Dulcinea  was  only  a trick  of  his  own,  he  was  willing  to  waive  the  discourse,  though  he  was 
the  less  satisfied  in  his  master’s  chimeras ; but  feared  to  drop  some  word  that  might  have 
betrayed  his  roguery. 

While  they  were  in  this  conversation,  they  were  overtaken  by  a gentleman,  mounted  on  a 
very  fine  mare.  He  had  on  a riding-coat  of  beautiful  green  cloth,  faced  with  murrey-coloured 
velvet,  and  a hunter’s  cap  of  the  same.  The  furniture  of  his  mare  was  country-like,  and 
after  the  jennet  fashion,  and  also  murrey  and  green.  By  his  side  hung  a Moorish  scimitar 
in  a large  belt  of  green  and  gold.  His  buskins  were  of  the  same  work  with  his  belt;  his 
spurs  were  not  gilt,  but  burnished  so  well  with  a certain  green  varnish,  that  they  looked  better 
to  suit  with  the  rest  of  his  equipage  than  if  they  had  been  of  pure  gold.  As  he  came  up  with 
them,  he  very  civilly  saluted  them,  and,  clapping  spurs  to  his  mare,  began  to  leave  them 
behind  him.  Thereupon  Don  Quixote  called  to  him  : “ Sir,  if  you  are  not  in  too  much  haste, 
we  should  be  glad  of  the  favour  of  your  company,  so  far  as  you  travel  this  road.” 

Upon  this  the  traveller  stopped  his  mare,  and  did  not  a little  gaze  at  the  figure  and 
countenance  of  our  knight,  who  rode  without  his  helmet,  which,  like  a wallet,  hung  at  the 
saddle-bow  of  Sancho’s  ass.  If  the  gentleman  in  green  gazed  on  Don  Quixote,  Don  Quixote 


468 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


looked  no  less  on  him,  judging  him  to  be  some  man  of  consequence.  His  age  seemed  about 
fifty  ; he  had  some  grey  hairs,  a sharp  look,  and  a grave  yet  pleasing  aspect.  In  short,  his 
mien  and  appearance  spoke  him  a man  of  quality.  When  he  looked  on  Don  Quixote,  he 
thought  he  had  never  beheld  before  such  a strange  appearance  of  a man.  He  could  not  but 
wonder  at  the  lankness  of  his  horse  ; he  considered  then  the  long-backed,  raw-boned  thing  that 
bestrid  him  ; his  wan,  meagre  face  ; his  air,  his  gravity,  his  arms  and  equipage  ; such  a figure 
as  perhaps  had  not  been  seen  in  that  country  time  out  of  mind. 

Don  Quixote  observed  how  intent  the  travelling  gentleman  had  been  in  surveying  him, 
and  reading  his  desire  in  his  surprise,  as  he  was  the  very  pink  of  courtesy,  and  fond  of  pleasing 
every  one,  without  staying  till  he  should  question  him,  he  thought  fit  to  Drevent  him. 

“ Sir,”  said  he,  “ that  you  are  surprised  at  this  figure  of  mine,  which  appears  so  new  and 
exotic,  I do  not  wonder  in  the  least ; but  your  wonder  will  cease  when  I have  informed 
you  that  I am  one  of  those  knights  who  go  in  quest  of  adventures.  I have  left  my  country, 
mortgaged  my  estate,  quitted  my  pleasures,  and  thrown  myself  into  the  arms  of  fortune.  My 
design  was  to  give  a new  life  to  knight-errantry,  that  so  long  has  been  lost  to  the  world  ; and 
thus,  after  infinite  toils  and  hardships,  sometimes  stumbling,  sometimes  falling,  casting  myself 
headlong  in  one  place  and  rising  again  in  another,  I have  compassed  a great  part  of  my  desire — 
relieving  widows,  protecting  damsels,  assisting  married  women  and  orphans,  the  proper  and 
natural  office  of  knights-errant ; and  so,  by  many  valorous  and  Christian-like  achievements,  I have 
merited  the  honour  of  being  in  print  in  almost  ail  the  nations  of  the  world.  Thirty  thousand 
volumes  of  my  history  have  been  printed  already,  and  thirty  thousand  millions  more  are  like  to  be 
printed,  if  Heaven  prevent  not.  In  short,  to  sum  up  all  in  one  word,  know  I am  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,  otherwise  called  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure.  I own  it  lessens  the  value  of 
praise  to  be  the  publisher  of  its  own  self,  yet  it  is  what  I am  sometimes  forced  to  when  there 
is  none  present  to  do  me  justice.  And  now,  'good  sir,  no  longer  let  this  steed,  this  lance,  this 
shield,  this  armour,  this  squire,  the  paleness  of  my  looks,  nor  my  exhausted  body,  move  your 
wonder,  since  you  know  who  I am  and  the  profession  I follow.” 

Having  said  this,  Don  Quixote  was  silent,  and  the  gentleman  in  green,  by  his  delaying  to 
answer  him,  seemed  as  if  he  did  not  intend  to  make  any  return.  But  at  last,  after  some  pause, 

“ Sir  Knight,”  said  he,  “ you  were  sensible  of  my  curiosity  by  my  looks,  and  were  pleased  to 
say  my  wonder  would  cease  when  you  had  informed  me  who  you  were  ; but  I must  confess, 
since  you  have  done  that,  I remain  no  less  surprised  and  amazed  than  ever.  For  is  it  possible 
there  should  be  at  this  time  any  knights-errant  in  the  world,  or  that  there  should  be  a true 
history  of  a living  knight-errant  in  print  ? I cannot  persuade  myself  there  is  anybody  now 
upon  earth  that  relieves  widows,  protects  damsels,  or  assists  married  women  and  orphans  ; and 
I should  still  have  been  of  the  same  mind,  had  not  my  eyes  afforded  me  a sight  of  such  a 
person  as  yourself.  Now,  Heaven  be  praised  ! for  this  history  of  your  true  and  noble  feats  ot 
arms,  which  you  say  is  in  print,  will  blot  out  the  memory  of  all  those  idle  romances  of  pretended 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  469 

knights-errant  that  have  so  filled  and  pestered  the  world,  to  the  detriment  of  good  education, 
and  the  prejudice  and  dishonour  of  true  history.” 

“ There  is  a great  deal  to  be  said,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ for  the  truth  of  histories  of 
knight-errantry,  as  well  as  against  it.” 

“How?”  returned  the  gentleman  in  green;  “is  there  anybody  living  who  makes  the  least 
scruple  but  that  they  are  false  ?” 

“ Yes,  sir;  myself  for  one,”  said  Don  Quixote.  “But  let  that  pass  ; if  we  continue  any  time 
together  on  the  road,  I hope  to  convince  you  that  you  have  been  to  blame  in  suffering  yourself 
to  be  carried  away  with  the  stream  of  mankind,  who  generally  disbelieve  them.” 

The  traveller,  at  this  discourse,  began  to  have  a suspicion  that  Don  Quixote  was  distracted, 
and  expected  the  next  words  would  confirm  him  in  that  opinion  ; but  before  they  entered  into 
any  further  conversation,  Don  Quixote  begged  him  to  acquaint  him  who  he  was,  since  he  had 
given  him  some  account  ot  his  own  life  and  condition. 

“ Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,”  answered  the  other,  “ I am  a gentleman,  born  at  a 
village,  where,  God  willing,  we  shall  dine  by-and-by.  My  name  is  Don  Diego  de  Miranda. 
1 have  a reasonable  competency ; I pass  my  time  contentedly  with  my  wife,  my  children,  and 
my  friends  ; my  usual  diversions  are  hunting  and  fishing,  yet  I keep  neither  hawks  nor  hounds, 
but  some  tame  partridges  and  a ferret ; I have  about  three  or  four  score  books — some  Spanish', 
some  Latin,  some  of  history,  others  of  divinity ; but  for  books  of  knight-errantry,  none  ever 
came  within  my  doors.  I am  more  inclinable  to  read  those  that  are  profane  than  those  of 
devotion,  if  they  be  such  as  yield  an  innocent  amusement,  and  are  agreeable  for  their  style, 
and  surprising  for  their  invention,  though  we  have  but  few  of  them  in  our  language.  Sometimes 
I eat  with  my  neighbours  and  friends,  and  often  I invite  them  to  do  the  like  with  me.  My  treats 
are  clean  and  handsome,  neither  penurious  nor  superfluous.  I am  not  given  to  murmur  and 
backbite,  nor  do  I love  to  hear  others  do  it.  I am  no  curious  inquirer  into  the  lives  and  actions 
of  other  people.  Every  day  I hear  divine  service,  and  give  to  the  poor,  without  making  a show 
of  it,  or  presuming  on  my  good  deeds,  lest  I should  give  way  to  hypocrisy  and  vain-glory — 
enemies  that  too  easily  possess  themselves  of  the  best  guarded  hearts.  I endeavour  to  reconcile 
those  that  are  at  variance.  I pay  my  devotions  to  the  blessed  Virgin,  and  ever  trust  in  Heaven’s 
infinite  mercy.” 

Sancho  listened  with  great  attention  to  this  relation  of  the  gentleman’s  way  of  living  ; and 
believing  that  a person  who  had  led  so  good  and  pious  a life  was  able  to  work  miracles,  he 
jumped  in  haste  from  his  ass,  and  catching  hold  of  his  right  stirrup,  with  tears  in  his  eyes  and 
devotion  in  his  heart,  fell  to  kissing  his  foot. 

“What  is  the  matter,  friend?”  cried  the  gentleman,  wondering  at  his  proceeding;  “what  is 
the  meaning  of  this  kissing?” 

“ Oh,  good  sir!”  quoth  Sancho,  “let  me  kiss  that  dear  foot  of  yours,  I beseech  you  ; for  you 
are  certainly  the  first  saint  on  horseback  I ever  saw  in  my  born  days.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  t 

4/0 

“Alas!”  replied  the  gentleman,  “1  am  no  saint,  but  a great  sinner;  you,  indeed,  friend, 

I believe,  are  a good  soul,  as  appears  by  your  simplicity.” 

With  that  Sancho  returned  to  his  pack-saddle,  having  by  this  action  provoked  the  profound 
gravity  of  his  master  to  smile,  and  caused  new  admiration  in  Don  Diego.  And  now  Don  Quixote 
inquired  of  him  how  many  children  he  had,  telling  him,  at  the  same  time,  that  among  the 
things  in  which  the  ancient  philosophers,  who  had  not  the  true  knowledge  of  God,  made  happiness 
consist,  as  the  advantages  of  nature  and  fortune,  one  was,  to  have  many  friends  and  a numerous 
and  virtuous  offspring. 

“ I have  a son,  Sir  Knight,”  answered  the  gentleman ; “ and  perhaps  if  I had  him  not  I should 
not  think  myself  the  more  unhappy ; not  that  he  is  so  bad  neither,  but  because  he  is  not  so 
good  as  I would  have  him.  He  is  eighteen  years  of  age  ; the  last  six  he  has  spent  at  Salamanca, 
to  perfect  himself  in  his  Latin  and  Greek.  But  when  I would  have  him  to  have  proceeded  to  the 
study  of  other  sciences,  I found  him  so  engaged  in  that  of  poetry,  if  it  may  be  called  a science, 
that  it  was  impossible  to  make  him  look  either  to  the  study  of  the  law,  which  I intended  him 
for,  or  of  divinity,  the  noblest  part  of  all  learning.  I was  in  hopes  he  might  have  become  an 
honour  to  his  family,  living  in  an  age  in  which  good  and  virtuous  literature  is  highly  favoured 
and  rewarded  by  princes  ; for  learning  without  virtue  is  like  a pearl  upon  a dunghill.  He 
now  spends  whole  days  in  examining  whether  Homer,  in  such  a verse  of  his  ‘ Iliad,’  says 
well  or  no ; whether  such  an  epigram  in  Martial  ought  not  to  be  expunged ; and  whether 
such  and  such  verses  in  Virgil  are  to  be  taken  in  such  a sense  or  otherwise.  In  short, 
his  whole  converse  is  with  the  celebrated  poets— with  Horace  and  Persius,  Juvenal  and 
Tibullus.  But  as  for  modern  rhymers,  he  has  but  an  indifferent  opinion  of  them.  And  yet 
for  all  this  disgust  of  Spanish  poetry,  he  is  now  breaking  his  brain  upon  a paraphrase  or  gloss 
on  four  verses  that  were  sent  him  from  the  university,  and  which,  I think,  are  designed  for 
a prize.” 

“ Sir,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ children  are  the  flesh  and  blood  of  their  parents,  and 
whether  good  or  bad,  are  to  be  cherished  as  part  of  ourselves.  It  is  the  duty  of  a father  to 
train  them  up  from  their  tenderest  years  in  the  path  of  virtue,  in  good  discipline  and  Christian 
principles,  that  when  they  advance  in  years  they  may  become  the  staff  and  support  of  their 
parents’  age,  and  the  glory  of  their  posterity.  But  as  for  forcing  them  to  this  or  that  study, 
it  is  a thing  I do  not  so  well  approve.  Persuasion  is  all,  I think,  that  is  proper  in  such  a 
case  ; especially  when  they  are  so  fortunate  as  to  be  above  studying  for  bread,  they  ought,  in 
my  opinion,  to  be  indulged  in  the  pursuit  of  that  science  to  which  their  own  genius  gives  them 
the  most  inclination.  For  though  the  art  of  poetry  is  not  so  profitable  as  delightful,  yet  it  is 
none  of  those  that  disgrace  the  ingenious  professor.  Poetry,  sir,  in  my  judgment,  is  like  a tender 
virgin  in  her  bloom,  beautiful  and  charming  to  amazement ; all  the  other  sciences  are  so  many 
virgins,  whose  care  it  is  to  enrich,  polish,  and  adorn  her ; as  she  is  to  make  use  of  them  all, 
so  are  they  all  to  have  from  her  a grateful  acknowledgment.  But  this  virgin  must  not  be 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


471 


roughly  handled,  nor  dragged  along  the  streets,  nor  exposed  at  every  market-place  and  corner 
of  great  men’s  houses.  A good  poet  is  a kind  of  an  alchymist,  who  can  turn  the  matter 
he  prepares  into  the  purest  gold  and  an  inestimable  treasure.  But  he  must  keep  his  muse 
within  the  rules  of  decency,  and  not  let  her  prostitute  her  excellency  in  lewd  satires  and 
lampoons,  nor  in  licentious  sonnets.  She  must  not  be  mercenary,  though  she  need  not  give 
away  the  profits  she  may  claim  for  heroic  poems,  deep  tragedies,  and  pleasant  and  artful 

comedies.  She  is  not  to  be'  attempted  by  buffoons,  nor  by  the  ignorant  vulgar,  whose  capacity 
can  never  reach  to  a due  sense  of  the  treasures  that  are  locked  up  in  her.  And  know,  sir, 

that  when  I mention  the  vulgar,  I do  not  mean  only  the  common  rabble  ; for  whoever  is 

ignorant,  be  he  lord  or  prince,  is  to  be  reckoned  in  the  number  of  the  vulgar.  But  whoever 
shall  apply  himself  to  the  muses  with  those  qualifications  which,  as  I said,  are  essential  to 
the  character  of  a good  poet,  his  name  shall  be  famous,  and  valued  in  all  the  polished  nations 
of  the  world.  And  as  to  what  you  say,  sir,  that  your  son  does  not  much  esteem  our  modern 
poetry,  in  my  opinion,  he  is  somewhat  to  blame ; and  my  reason  is  this  : Homer  never 

wrote  in  Latin,  because  he  was  a Grecian ; nor  did  Virgil  write  in  Greek,  because  Latin 
was  the  language  of  his  country.  In  short,  all  your  ancient  poets  wrote  in  their  mother- 
tongue,  and  did  not  seek  other  languages  to  express  their  lofty  thoughts.  And  thus  it 
would  be  well  that  custom  should  extend  to  every  nation  ; there  being  no  reason  that  a 
German  poet  should  be  despised,  because  he  writes  in  his  own  tongue,  or  a Castilian  or 
Biscayan,  because  they  write  in  theirs.  But  I suppose  your  son  does  not  mislike  modern 
poetry,  but  such  modern  poets  as  have  no  tincture  of  any  other  language  or  science,  that  may 
adorn,  awaken,  and  assist  their  natural  impulse.  Though  even  in  this,  too,  there  may  be 
error.  For  it  is  believed,  and  not  without  reason,  that  a poet  is  naturally  a poet  from  his 
birth,  and  that  with  the  talent  which  Heaven  has  infused  into  him,  without  the  help  of  study 
or  art,  he  may  produce  those  compositions  that  verify  that  saying,  Est  Deas  in  nobis , &c. 
Not  but  that  a natural  poet,  who  improves  himself  by  art,  shall  be  much  more  accomplished, 
and  have  the  advantage  of  him  that  has  no  title  to  poetry  but  by  his  knowledge  in  the  art ; 
because  art  cannot  go  beyond  nature,  but  only  adds  to  its  perfection  : from  which  it  appears 
that  the  most  perfect  poet  is  he  whom  nature  and  art  combine  to  qualify.  Let,  then,  your  son 
proceed  and  follow  the  guidance  of  his  stars,  for  being  so  good  a student  as  I understand  he 
is,  and  already  gone  up  the  first  step  of  the  sciences — the  knowledge  of  the  learned  tongues — he 
will  easily  ascend  to  the  pinnacle  of  learning,  which  is  no  less  an  honour  and  an  ornament  to 
a gentleman  than  a mitre  is  to  a bishop,  or  the  long  robe  is  to  a civilian.  Should  your  son 
write  satires  to  lessen  the  reputation  of  any  person,  you  would  do  well  to  take  him  to  task, 
and  destroy  his  defamatory  rhymes  ; but  if  he  studies  to  write  such  discourses  in  verse,  to  ridicule 
and  explode  vice  in  general,  as  Horace  so  elegantly  did,  then  encourage  him  : for  a poet’s  pen 
is  allowed  to  inveigh  against  envy  and  envious  men,  and  so  against  other  vices,  provided  it  aim 
not  at  particular  persons.  But  there  are  poets  so  abandoned  to  the  love  of  scurrility,  that  rather 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


472 

than  lose  a villanous  jest,  they  will  venture  being  banished  to  the  islands  of  Pontus.  If  a 
poet  is  modest  in  his  manners,  he  will  be  so  in  his  verses.  The  pen  is  the  tongue  of  the 
> mind  ; the  thoughts  that  are  formed  in  the  one,  and  those  that  are  traced  by  the  other,  will 
bear  a near  resemblance.  And  when  kings  and  princes  see  the  wonderful  art  of  poetry  shine 
in  prudent,  virtuous,  and  solid  subjects,  they  honour,  esteem,  and  enrich  them,  and  even  crown 
them  with  leaves  of  that  tree  which  is  never  offended  by  the  thunderbolt,  as  a token  that 
nothing  shall  offend  those  whose  brows  are  honoured  and  adorned  with  such  crowns.” 

The  gentleman,  hearing  Don  Quixote  express  himself  in  this  manner,  was  struck  with  so 
much  admiration,  that  he  began  to  lose  the  bad  opinion  he  had  conceived  of  his  understanding. 
As  for  Sancho,  who  did  not  much  relish  this  fine  talk,  he  took  an  opportunity  to  slink  aside  in 
the  middle  of  it,  and  went  to  get  a little  milk  of  some  shepherds  that  were  hard  by,  keeping 
their  sheep.  Now  when  the  gentleman  was  going  to  renew  his  discourse,  mightily  pleased 
with  these  judicious  observations,  Don  Quixote,  lifting  up  his  eyes,  perceived  a wagon  err 
the  road,  set  round  with  little  flags,  that  appeared  to  be  the  king’s  colours  ; and  believing  it 
to  be  some  new  adventure,  he  called  cut  to  Sancho  to  bring  him  his  helmet.  Sancho  hearing 
him  call  aloud,  left  the  shepherds,  and,  clapping  his  heels  vigorously  to  Dapple’s  sides,  came 
rotting  up  to  his  master,  to  whom  there  happened  a most  terrifying  and  desperate  adventure. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

WHERE  YOU  WILL  FIND  SET  FORTH  THE  HIGHEST  AND  UTMOST  PROOF  THAT  GREAT  DON  QUIXOTE 
EVER  GAVE,  OR  COULD  GIVE,  OF  HIS  INCREDIBLE  COURAGE,  WITH  THE  SUCCESSFUL  ISSUE  OF 
THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  LIONS. 

AHE  history  relates  that  Sancho  was  chaffering  with  the  shepherds  for  some  curds,  when 
Don  Quixote  called  to  him ; and  finding  that  his  master  was  in  haste,  he  did  not  know 
what  to  do  with  them,  nor  what  to  bring  them  in  ; yet  loth  to  lose  his  purchase  (for  he  had  already 
paid  for  them),  he  bethought  himself  at  last  of  clapping  them  into  the  helmet,  where  having 
them  safe,  he  went  to  know  his  master’s  pleasure.  As  soon  as  he  came  up  to  him,  “ Give  me 
that  helmet,  friend,”  said  the  knight,  “for  if  I understand  anything  of  adventures,  I descry  one 
yonder  that  obliges  me  to  arm.” 

The  gentleman  in  green,  hearing  this,  looked  about  to  see  what  was  the  matter,  but  could 

perceive  nothing  but  a wagon,  which  made  towards  them  ; and  by  the  little  flags  about  it,  he 

judged  it  to  be  one  of  the  king’s  carriages,  and  so  he  told  Don  Quixote.  But  his  head  was  too 

much  possessed  with  notions  of  adventures  to  give  any  credit  to  what  the  gentleman  said.  “ Sir,” 

answered  he,  “‘forewarned,  forearmed;’  a man  loses  nothing  by  standing  on  his  guard.  I know 

by  experience  that  I have  enemies  visible  and  invisible,  and  I cannot  tell  when  or  where?  or 
80 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


474 

in  what  shape  they  may  attack  me.”  At  the  same  time  he  snatched  the  helmet  out  of  Sancho’s 
hands,  before  he  could  discharge  it  of  the  curds,  and  clapped  it  on  his  head,  without  examining 
the  contents.  Now,  the  curds  being  squeezed  between  his  bare  crown  and  the  iron,  the  whey 
began  to  run  all  about  his  face  and  beard,  which  so  surprised  him,  that,  calling  to  Sancho  in 
great  disorder,  “ What’s  this,"  cried  he,  “ Sancho  ? What’s  the  matter  with  me  ? Sure,  my  skull 

is  growing  soft,  or  my  brains  are  melting,  or  else  I sweat  from  head  to  foot!  But  if  I do,  I 

am  sure  it  is  not  for  fear.  This  certainly  must  be  a very  dreadful  adventure  that  is  approaching. 
Give  me  something  to  wipe  my  face  if  thou  canst,  for  I am  almost  blinded  with  the  torrent 
of  sweat.” 

Sancho  did  not  dare  to  say  a word,  but  giving  him  a cloth,  blessed  his  stars  that  nis  master 
had  not  found  him  out.  Don  Quixote  dried  himself,  and  taking  off  the  helmet  to  see  what 
it  should  be  that  felt  so  cold  on  his  head,  perceiving  some  white  stuff,  and  putting  it  to  his  nose, 

soon  found  what  it  was.  “ Now,  by  the  life  of  my  Lady  Dulcinea  Toboso,”  cried  he,  “ thou  hast 

put  curds  in  my  helmet,  vile  traitor,  and  unmannerly  squire  !” 

“ Nay,”  replied  Sancho  cunningly,  and  keeping  his  countenance,  “ if  they  be  curds,  good  your 
worship,  give  them  me  hither,  and  I will  eat  them.  But  hold,  now  I think  on  it,  I had  better  not, 
for  some  enchanter  must  have  put  them  there.  What ! I offer  to  do  such  a trick  ! Do  you 
think  I have  no  more  manners  ? As  sure  as  I am  alive,  sir,  I have  got  my  enchanters  too,  that 
owe  me  a grudge,  and  plague  me  as  a limb  of  your  worship ; and  I warrant  they  have  put  that 
stuff  there  on  purpose  to  set  you  against  me,  and  make  you  fall  foul  on  my  bones.  But  I hope 
they  have  missed  their  aim  this  time,  i’  troth  ! My  master  is  a wise  man,  and  must  needs 
know  that  I had  neither  curds  nor  milk,  nor  anything  of  that  kind  ; and  if  I had  met  with  curds, 

I should  sooner  have  put  them  in  my  mouth  than  his  helmet.” 

“ Well,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ there  may  be  something  in  that.” 

The  gentleman  had  observed  these  passages,  and  stood  amazed,  but  especially  at  what 
immediately  followed  ; for  the  knight-errant,  having  put  on  the  helmet  again,  fixed  himself  well  in 
the  stirrups,  tried  whether  his  sword  were  loose  enough  in  his  scabbard,  and  rested  his  lance. 
“Now,”  cried  he,  “come  what  will  come;  here  am  I,  who  dare  encounter  any  enchanter  in 
propria  persona."  By  this  time  the  wagon  was  come  up  with  them,  attended  only  by  the  carter, 
mounted  on  one  of  the  mules,  and  another  man  who  sat  on  the  forepart  of  the  wagon.  Don 
Quixote  making  up  to  them,  “ Whither  go  ye,  friends  ?”  said  he.  “ What  wagon  is  this  ? What 
do  you  convey  in  it  ? And  what  is  the  meaning  of  these  colours  ?” 

“ The  wagon  is  mine,”  answered  the  wagoner  : “ I have  there  two  brave  lions,  which  the 
general  of  Oran  is  sending  to  the  king  our  master,  and  these  colours  are  to  let  the  people 
understand  that  what  goes  here  belones  to  him.” 

“And  are  the  lions  large?”  inquired  Don  Quixote. 

“ Very  large,”  answered  the  man  in  the  forepart  of  the  wagon  : “there  never  came  bigger 
from  Africa  into  Spain.  I am  their  keeper,”  added  he,  “ and  have  had  charge  of  several  others, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


475 


but  I never  saw  the  like  of  these  before.  In  the  foremost  cage  is  a lion,  and  in  the  other  behind 
a lioness.  By  this  time  they  are  very  hungry,  for  they  have  not  eaten  to-day  ; therefore,  pray, 
good  sir,  ride  out  of  the  way,  for  we  must  make  haste  to  get  to  the  place  where  we  intend  to 
feed  them.” 

“What!”  said  Don  Quixote,  with  a scornful  smile,  “lion  whelps  against  me!  Against 
me,  those  puny  beasts  ! And  at  this  time  of  day  ? Well,  I will  make  those  gentlemen,  that 

sent  their  lions  this  way,  know  whether  I am  a man  to  be  scared  with  lions.  Get  off,  honest 

fellow  ; and  since  you  are  the  keeper,  open  their  cages  and  let  them  both  out ; for,  despite  of 
those  enchanters  that  have  sent  them  to  try  me,  I will  make  the  creatures  know,  in  the  midst  of 
this  very  field,  who  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  is.” 

“ So,”  thought  the  gentleman  to  himself,  “ now  has  our  poor  knight  discovered  what  he  is ; 
the  curds,  I find,  have  softened  his  skull,  and  mellowed  his  brains.” 

While  he  was  making  this  reflection,  Sancho  came  up  to  him,  and  begged  him  to  dissuade 

his  master  from  his  rash  attempt.  “Oh,  good,  dear  sir!”  cried  he,  “for  pity  sake,  hinder  my 

master  from  falling  upon  these  lions,  by  all  means,  or  we  shall  be  torn  in  pieces.” 

“ Why,”  said  the  gentleman,  “ is  your  master  so  arrant  a madman  then,  that  you  should 
fear  he  would  set  upon  such  furious  beasts  ?” 

“Ah,  sir!”  said  Sancho,  “he  is  not  mad,  but  very  venturesome.” 

“Well,”  replied  the  gentleman,  “ I will  take  care  there  shall  be  no  harm  done;”  and  with 
that,  advancing  to  Don  Quixote,  who  was  urging  the  lion-keeper  to  open  the  cage,  “ Sir,” 
said  he,  “ knights-errant  ought  to  engage  in  adventures  from  which  there  may  be  some  hopes 
of  coming  off  with  safety,  but  not  in  such  as  are  altogether  desperate ; for  that  courage  which 
borders  on  temerity  is  more  like  madness  than  true  fortitude.  Besides,  these  lions  are  not 
come  against  you,  but  are  sent  as  a present  to  the  king,  and  therefore  it  is  not  the  best  way 
to  detain  them,  or  stop  the  wagon.” 

“ Pray,  sweet  sir,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ go  and  amuse  yourself  with  your  tame  partridges 
and  your  ferrets,  and  leave  every  one  to  his  own  business.  This  is  mine,  and  I know  best 
whether  these  worthy  lions  are  sent  against  me  or  no.”  Then  turning  about  to  the  keeper, 
“Sirrah!  you  rascal  you,”  said  he,  “open  your  cages  immediately,  or  I vow  I will  pin  thee  to 
the  wasfon  with  this  lance.” 

“ Good  sir,”  cried  the  wagoner,  seeing  this  strange  apparition  in  armour  so  resolute,  “ for 
mercy’s  sake,  do  but  let  me  take  out  our  mules  first,  and  get  out  of  harm’s  way  as  fast  as  I can, 
before  the  lions  get  out ; for  if  they  should  once  set  upon  the  poor  beasts,  I should  be  undone 
for  ever,  as  that  cart  and  they  are  all  I have  in  the  world  to  get  a living  with.” 

“ Thou  man  of  little  faith  ! ” said  Don  Quixote,  “ take  them  out  quickly  then,  and  go  with 
them  where  thou  wilt ; though  thou  shalt  presently  see  that  thy  precaution  was  needless,  and 
thou  mightest  have  spared  thy  pains.” 

The  wagoner  on  this  made  all  the  haste  he  could  to  take  out  his  mules,  while  the  keeper 


476 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


cried  out  as  loud  as  he  was  able,  “ Bear  witness,  all  ye  that  are  here  present,  that  it  is  against 
my  will  I am  forced  to  open  the  cages  and  let  loose  the  lions ; and  I protest  to  this  gentleman 
here,  that  he  shall  be  answerable  for  all  the  mischief  and  damage  they  may  do,  together  with  the 
loss  of  my  salary  and  fees.  And  now,  sirs,  shift  for  yourselves  as  fast  as  you  can,  before  I open 
the  cages  ; for  as  for  myself,  I know  the  lions  will  do  me  no  harm.” 

Once  more  the  gentleman  tried  to  dissuade  Don  Ouixote  from  doing  so  mad  a thin^, 
telling  him  that  he  tempted  Heaven,  in  exposing  himself  without  reason  to  so  great  a danger. 

To  this  Don  Ouixote  made  no  other  answer  but  that  he  knew  what  he  had  to  do. 

“ Consider,  however,  what  you  do,”  replied  the  gentleman,  “ for  it  is  most  certain  that  you  are 
very  much  mistaken.” 

“ Well,  sir,”  said  Don  Ouixote,  “ if  you  care  not  to  be  spectator  of  an  action  which  you 
think  is  likely  to  be  tragical,  e’en  put  spurs  to  your  mare  and  provide  for  your  safety.” 

Sancho,  hearing  this,  came  up  to  his  master  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  and  begged  him  not  to 
go  about  this  fearful  undertaking,  to  which  the  adventure  of  the  windmills  and  the  fullinor-mills, 
and  all  the  brunts  he  had  ever  borne  in  his  life,  were  but  children’s  play.  “ Good  your  worship,” 
cried  he,  “ do  but  mind  ; here  is  no  enchantment  in  the  case,  nor  anything  like  it.  Alack-a-day  ! 
sir,  I peeped  even  now  through  the  grates  of  the  cage,  and  I am  sure  I saw  the  claw  of  a 
true  lion,  and  such  a claw  as  makes  me  think  the  lion  that  owns  it  must  be  as  big  as  a 
mountain.” 

“ Alas  ! poor  fellow  !”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thy  fear  will  make  him  as  big  as  half  the  world. 
Retire,  Sancho,  and  leave  me  ; and  if  I chance  to  fall  here,  thou  knowest  our  old  agreement ; 
repair  to  Dulcinea — I say  no  more.”  To  this  he  added  some  expressions,  which  cut  off  all 
hopes  of  his  giving  over  his  mad  design. 

The  gentleman  in  green  would  have  opposed  him  ; but,  considering  the  other  much  better 
armed,  and  that  it  was  not  prudence  to  encounter  a madman,  he  even  took  the  opportunity, 
while  Don  Ouixote  was  storming  at  the  keeper,  to  march  off  with  his  mare,  as  Sancho  did  with 
Dapple,  and  the  carter  with  his  mules,  every  one  making  the  best  of  his  way  to  get  as  far  as  he 
could  from  the  wagon,  before  the  lions  were  let  loose.  Poor  Sancho  at  the  same  time  made  sad 
lamentations  for  his  master’s  death ; for  he  gave  him  up  for  lost,  not  questioning  but  the  lions  had 
already  got  him  in  their  clutches.  He  cursed  his  ill  fortune,  and  the  hour  he  came  again  to  his 
service ; but  for  all  his  wailing  and  lamenting,  he  punched  on  poor  Dapple,  to  get  as  far  as  he 
could  from  the  lions. 

The  keeper,  perceiving  the  persons  who  fled  to  be  at  a good  distance,  fell  to  arguing  and 
entreating  Don  Quixote  as  he  had  done  before.  But  the  knight  told  him  again  that  all  his 
reasons  and  entreaties  were  in  vain,  and  bid  him  say  no  more. 

Now  while  the  keeper  took  time  to  open  the  foremost  cage,  Don  Quixote  stood  debating 
with  himself  whether  he  had  best  make  his  attack  on  foot  or  on  horseback  ; and  upon  mature 
deliberation,  he  resolved  to  do  it  on  foot,  lest  Rozinante,  not  used  to  lions,  should  be  put  into 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


477 


disorder.  Accordingly  he  quitted  his  horse,  threw  aside  his  lance,  grasped  his  shield,  and  drew 
his  sword  ; then  advancing  with  a deliberate  motion,  and  an  undaunted  heart,  he  posted  himself 
just  before  the  door  of  the  cage,  commending  himself  to  Heaven,  and  afterwards  to  his  Lady 
Dulcinea. 

Here  the  author  of  this  faithful  history  could  not  forbear  breaking  the  thread  of  his  narration, 
and  raised  by  wonder  to  rapture  and  enthusiasm,  makes  the  following  exclamation  : “ Oh,  thou  most 
magnanimous  hero  ! Brave  and  unutterably  bold  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ! Thou  mirror  and 
grand  exemplar  of  valour  ! Thou  second  and  new  Don  Emanuel  de  Leon,  the  late  glory  and 
honour  of  all  Spanish  cavaliers  ! What  words,  what  colours  shall  I use  to  express,  to  paint  in 
equal  lines,  this  astonishing  deed  of  thine  ? What  language  shall  I employ  to  convince  posterity 
of  the  truth  of  this  thy  more  than  human  enterprise  ? What  praises  can  be  coined,  and  eulogies 

invented,  that  will  not  be  outvied  by  thy  superior  merit,  though  hyperboles  were  piled  on 

hyperboles  ? Thou,  alone,  on  foot,  intrepid  and  magnanimous,  with  nothing  but  a sword,  and 
that  none  of  the  sharpest,  with  thy  single  shield,  and  that  none  of  the  brightest,  stoodest  ready 
to  receive  and  encounter  the  savage  force  of  two  huge  lions,  as  fierce  as  ever  roared  within  the 
Lybian  deserts.  Then  let  thy  own  unrivalled  deeds,  that  best  can  speak  thy  praise,  amaze  the 
world,  and  fill  the  mouth  of  fame,  brave  champion  of  La  Mancha ; while  I am  obliged  to  leave 
off  the  high  theme,  for  want  of  vigour  to  maintain  the  flight.”  Here  ended  the  author’s 
exclamation,  and  the  history  goes  on. 

The  keeper  observing  the  posture  Don  Quixote  had  put  himself  in,  and  that  it  was  not 
oossible  for  him  to  prevent  letting  out  the  lions,  without  incurring  the  resentment  of  the 
desperate  knight,  set  the  door  of  the  foremost  cage  wide  open ; where,  as  I have  said,  the 
male  lion  lay,  who  appeared  of  a monstrous  bigness,  and  of  a hideous,  frightful  aspect.  The 

first  thing  he  did  was  to  roll  and  turn  himself  round  in  his  cage ; in  the  next  place,  he 

stretched  out  one  of  his  paws,  put  forth  his  claws,  and  roused  himself.  After  that  he  gaped 
and  yawned  for  a good  while,  and  showed  his  dreadful  fangs,  and  then  thrust  out  half  a 
yard  of  broad  tongue,  and  with  it  licked  the  dust  out  of  his  eyes  and  face.  Having  done 
this,  he  thrust  his  head  quite  out  of  the  cage,  and  stared  about  with  his  eyes,  which  looked 
like  two  live  coals  of  fire ; a sight  and  motion  enough  to  have  struck  terror  into  temerity 
itself. 

But  Don  Quixote  only  regarded  the  lion  with  attention,  wishing  his  grim  adversary  would 
leap  out  of  his  hold,  and  come  within  his  reach,  that  he  might  exercise  his  valour,  and  cut 
the  monster  piecemeal.  To  this  height  of  extravagance  had  his  folly  transported  him  ; but 
the  generous  lion,  more  gentle  than  arrogant,  taking  no  notice  of  him,  after  he  had  looked 
about  him  awhile,  turned  his  tail,  and  very  contentedly  lay  down  again  in  his  apartment. 

Don  Quixote,  seeing  this,  commanded  the  keeper  to  rouse  him  with  his  pole,  and  force 
him  out,  whether  he  would  or  no. 

“Not  I indeed,  sir,”  answered  the  keeper;  “ I dare  not  do  it  for  my  life;  for  if  I provoke 


He  posted  himself  just  before  the  door  of  the  cage.”— p.  477, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


479- 

him,  I am  sure  to  be  the  first  he  will  tear  to  pieces.  Let  me  advise  you,  sir,  to  be  satisfied 
with  your  day’s  work.  ’Tis  as  much  as  the  bravest  that  wears  a head  can  pretend  to  do. 
Then  pray  go  no  farther,  I beseech  you.  The  door  stands  open,  the  lion  is  at  his  choice, 
whether  he  will  come  out  or  no.  You  have  waited  for  him,  you  see  he  does  not  care  to 
look  you  in  the  face ; and  since  he  did  not  come  out  at  the  first,  I dare  engage  he  will  not 
stir  out  this  day.  You  have  shown  enough  the  greatness  of  your  courage.  No  man  is  obliged 
to  do  more  than  challenge  his  enemy,  and  wait  for  him  in  the  field.  If  he  comes  not,  that 
is  his  own  fault,  and  the  scandal  is  his,  as  the  honour  the  challenger’s.” 

“ ’Tis  true,”  replied  Don  Quixote.  “ Come,  shut  the  cage-door,  honest  friend,  and  give 

me  a certificate  under  thy  hand,  in  the  amplest  form  thou  canst  devise,  of  what  thou  hast 

seen  me  perform ; how  thou  didst  open  the  cage  for  the  lion ; how  I expected  his  coming, 

and  he  did  not  come  out ; how,  upon  his  not  coming  out  then,  I stayed  his  own  time,  and 

instead  of  meeting  me,  he  turned  tail  and  lay  down.  I am  obliged  to  do  no  more.  So, 
enchantments  avaunt!  and  Heaven  prosper  truth,  justice,  and  knight-errantry!” 

The  keeper  obeyed,  and  Don  Quixote  clapping  on  the  point  of  his  lance  the  handker- 
chief, with  which  he  had  wiped  off  the  curds  from  his  face,  waved  it  in  the  air,  and  called  as 
loud  as  he  was  able  to  the  fugitives,  who  fled  nevertheless,  looking  behind  them  all  the  way, 
and  trooped  on  in  a body,  with  the  gentleman  in  green  at  the  head  of  them. 

At  last  Sancho  observed  the  signal  of  the  white  flag,  and  calling  out  to  the  rest,  “ Hold,” 
cried  he,  “ my  master  calls  to  us ; I will  be  hanged  if  he  has  not  got  the  better  of  the  lions.” 

At  this  they  all  faced  about,  and  perceived  Don  Quixote  flourishing  his  ensign ; where- 
upon recovering  a little  from  their  fright,  they  leisurely  rode  back,  till  they  could  plainly 
distinguish  Don  Quixote’s  voice ; and  then  they  came  up  to  the  wagon.  As  soon  as  they 
were  got  near  it — 

“ Come  on,  friend,”  said  he  to  the  carter ; “ put  thy  mules  to  the  wagon  again,  and  pursue 
thy  journey ; and,  Sancho,  do  thou  give  him  two  ducats  for  the  lion-keeper  and  himself,  to 
make  them  amends  for  the  time  I have  detained  them.” 

“ Ay,  that  I will  with  all  my  heart,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  what  is  become  of  the  lions  ? 
Are  they  dead  or  alive  ?” 

Then  the  keeper  very  formally  related  the  whole  action,  not  failing  to  exaggerate,  to  the 
best  of  his  skill,  Don  Quixote’s  courage;  how  at  his  sight  alone  the  lion  was  so  terrified, 
that  he  neither  would  nor  durst  quit  his  stronghold,  though  for  that  end  his  cage-door  was 
kept  open  for  a considerable  time  ; and  how  at  length,  upon  his  remonstrating  to  the  knight, 
who  would  have  had  the  lion  forced  out,  that  it  was  presuming  too  much  upon  Heaven,  he 
had  permitted,  though  with  great  reluctance,  that  the  lion  should  be  shut  up  again. 

“Well,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote  to  his  squire,  “what  dost  thou  think  of  this?  Can 
enchantment  prevail  over  true  fortitude  ? No ; these  magicians  may  perhaps  rob  me  of 
success,  but  never  of  my  invincible  greatness  of  mind.” 


4S0 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


In  short,  Sancho  gave  the  wagoner  and  the  keeper  the  two  pieces.  The  first  harnessed 
his  mules,  and  the  last  thanked  Don  Quixote  for  his  noble  bounty,  and  promised  to  acquaint 
the  kina'  himself  with  his  heroic  action  when  he  came  to  court. 

“ Well,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ if  his  majesty  should  chance  to  inquire  who  the  person  was 

that  did  this  thing,  tell  him  it  was  the  Knight  of  the  Lions,  a name  I intend  henceforth 

to  take  up,  in  lieu  of  that  which  I hitherto  assumed — the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure; 
in  which  proceeding  I do  but  conform  to  the  ancient  custom  of  knights-errant,  who  changed 
their  names  as  often  as  they  pleased,  or  as  it  suited  with  their  advantage.” 

After  this  the  wagon  made  the  best  of  its  way,  as  Don  Quixote,  Sancho,  and  the  gentleman 
in  green  did  of  theirs.  The  latter  for  a great  while  was  so  taken  up  with  making  his  observa- 
tions on  Don  Quixote,  that  he  had  not  time  to  speak  a syllable  ; not  knowing  what  opinion 
to  have  of  a person  in  whom  he  discovered  such  a mixture  of  good  sense  and  extravagance. 

“ For,”  said  he  to  himself,  “ can  there  be  anything  more  foolish  than  for  this  man  to  put 
on  his  helmet  full  of  curds,  and  then  believe  them  conveyed  there  by  enchanters  ; or  anything 
more  extravagant  than  forcibly  to  endeavour  to  fight  with  lions  ?” 

In  the  midst  of  this  soliloquy,  Don  Quixote  interrupted  him. 

“ Without  doubt,  sir,”  said  he,  “ you  take  me  for  a downright  madman,  and,  indeed,  my 

actions  may  seem  to  speak  me  no  less.  But  for  all  that,  give  me  leave  to  tell  you  I am 

not  so  mad,  nor  is  my  understanding  so  defective,  as  I suppose  you  may  fancy.  What  a 
noble  figure  does  the  gallant  knight  make  who,  in  the  midst  of  some  spacious  place,  transfixes 
a furious  bull  with  his  lance  in  the  view  of  his  prince ! What  a noble  figure  makes 
the  knight  who,  before  the  ladies,  at  a harmless  tournament,  comes  prancing  through  the 
lists  enclosed  in  shining  steel ; or  those  court  champions  who,  in  exercises  of  martial  kind, 
show  their  activity  ; and  though  all  they  do  is  merely  but  for  recreation,  are  thought  the 
ornament  of  a prince's  court ! But  a much  nobler  figure  is  the  knight-errant  who,  fired 
with  the  thirst  of  a glorious  fame,  wanders  through  deserts,  through  solitary  wildernesses, 
through  woods,  through  cross-ways,  over  mountains  and  valleys,  in  quest  of  perilous  adventures, 
resolved  to  bring  them  to  a happy  conclusion.  Yes,  I say,  a nobler  figure  is  a knight-errant 
succouring  a widow  in  some  depopulated  place,  than  the  court-knight  making  his  addresses  to 
the  city  dames.  Every  knight  has  his  particular  employment.  Let  the  courtier  wait  on  the 
ladies ; let  him  with  splendid  equipage  adorn  his  prince’s  court,  and  with  a magnificent  table 
support  poor  gentlemen ; let  him  give  birth  to  feasts  and  tournaments,  and  show  his 
grandeur,  and  liberality,  and  munificence,  and  especially  his  piety  : in  all  these  things  he  fulfils 
the  duties  of  his  station.  But  as  for  the  knight-errant,  let  him  search  into  all  the  corners  of  the 
world,  enter  into  the  most  intricate  labyrinths,  and  every  hour  be  ready  to  attempt  impossibility 
itself;  let  him  in  desolate  wilds  baffle  the  rigour  of  the  weather,  the  scorching  heat  of  the 
sun’s  fiercest  beams,  and  the  inclemency  of  winds  and  snow ; let  lions  never  fright  him, 
dragons  daunt  him,  nor  evil  spirits  deter  him.  Since,  then,  my  stars  have  decreed  me  to  be 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


48  I 

one  of  those  adventurous  knights,  I think  myself  obliged  to  attempt  everything  that  seems 
to  come  within  the  verge  of  my  profession.  This,  sir,  engaged  me  to  encounter  those  lions 
just  now;  and  in  attempting  adventures,  believe  me,  Signor  Don  Diego,  it  is  better  to  exceed 
the  bounds  a little,  and  overdo  rather  than  underdo  the  thing;  because  it  sounds  better  in 
people’s  ears  to  hear  it  said  how  that  such  a knight  is  rash  and  hardy,  than  such  a knight 
is  dastardly  and  timorous.” 

“ For  my  part,  sir,”  answered  Don  Diego,  “ I think  all  you  have  said  and  done  is 
agreeable  to  the  exactest  rules  of  reason  ; and  I believe,  if  the  ordinances  of  knight-errantry 
were  lost,  they  might  be  all  recovered  from  you,  your  breast  seeming  to  be  the  safe  repositoiy 
where  they  are  lodged.  But  it  grows  late ; let  us  make  a little  more  haste  to  get  to  our 
village,  and  to  my  habitation,  where  you  may  rest  yourself  after  the  fatigues  which  doubtless 
you  have  sustained,  if  not  in  body,  at  least  in  mind,  whose  pains  often  afflict  the  body  too.” 

“ Sir,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I esteem  your  offer  as  a singular  favour.”  And  so,  pushing 
on  a little  faster,  about  two  in  the  afternoon  they  got  to  the  house  of  Don  Diego,  whom 
now  Don  Quixote  called  the  Knight  of  the  Green  Coat. 


01 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 


HOW  DON  QUIXOTE  WAS  ENTERTAINED  AT  THE  CASTLE  OR  HOUSE  OF  THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE  GREEN 

COAT,  WITH  OTHER  EXTRAVAGANT  PASSAGES. 

DON  QUIXOTE  found  that  Don  Diego  de  Miranda’s  house  was  spacious,  after  the 
country  manner.  The  arms  of  the  family  were  over  the  gate  in  rough  stone,  the 
buttery  in  the  fore-yard,  the  cellar  under  the  porch,  and  all  around  several  great  jars  of 
that  sort  commonly  made  at  Toboso ; the  sight  of  which  bringing  to  his  remembrance  his 
enchanted  and  transformed  Dulcinea,  he  heaved  a deep  sigh,  and  neither  minding  what  he 
said,  nor  who  was  by,  broke  out  into  the  following  exclamation  : — 

“ ‘ Oh,  pledges ! once  my  comfort  and  relief, 

Though  pleasing  still,  discovered  now  with  grief.’ 

Oh,  ye  Tobosian  urns!  that  awaken  in  my  mind  the  thoughts  of  the  sweet  pledge  of  my  most 
bitter  sorrows  ! ” 

Don  Diego’s  son,  who,  as  it  has  been  said,  was  a student  and  poetically  inclined,  heard 
these  words  as  he  came  with  his  mother  to  welcome  him  home,  and,  as  well  as  she,  was  not 
a little  surprised  to  see  what  a strange  creature  his  father  had  brought  with  him.  Don 
Quixote  alighted  from  Rozinante,  and  very  courteously  desired  to  kiss  her  ladyship’s  hands. 
“ Madam,”  said  Don  Diego,  “ this  gentleman  is  the  noble  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  the 


“Oh,  ye  Tobosian  urns!  that  awaken  in  my  mind  the  thoughts  of  the  sweet  pledge  ot  my  most  bitter  sorrows!”—/.  482. 


4g4  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  I.A  MANCHA. 

wisest  and  most  valiant  knight-errant  in  the  world  ; pray  let  him  find  a welcome  suitable  to 
his  merit  and  your  usual  civility.” 

Thereupon  Donna  Christina  (for  that  was  the  lady’s  name)  received  him  very  kindly,  and 
with  great  marks  of  respect,  to  which  Don  Quixote  made  a proper  and  handsome  return ; and 
then  almost  the  same  compliments  passed  between  him  and  the  young  gentleman,  whom  Don 
Quixote  judg'ed  by  his  words  to  be  a man  of  wit  and  sense. 

Here  the  author  inserts  a long  description  of  every  particular  in  Don  Diego’s  house,  giving 
us  an  inventory  of  all  the  goods  and  chattels  and  every  circumstance  peculiar  to  the  house  of 
a rich  country  gentleman.  But  the  translator  presumed  that  it  would  be  better  to  omit  these 
little  things  and  such  like  insignificant  matters,  being  foreign  to  the  main  subject  of  this  history, 
which  ought  to  be  more  grounded  on  material  truth  than  cold  and  insipid  digressions. 

Don  Quixote  was  brought  into  a fair  room,  where  Sancho  took  off  his  armour,  and  then 
the  knight  appeared  in  a pair  of  close  breeches  and  a doublet  of  chamois-leather,  all  besmeared 
with  the  rust  of  his  armour.  About  his  neck  he  wore  a plain  band,  unstarched,  after  the 
manner  of  a student ; about  his  legs,  sad-coloured  spatterdashes  ; and  on  his  feet,  a pair  of 
wax-leather  shoes.  He  hung  his  trusty  sword  by  his  side  in  a belt  of  a sea-wolf’s  skin,  which 
makes  many  of  opinion  he  had  been  long  troubled  with  a pain  in  the  kidneys.  Over  all  this 
he  clapped  on  a long  cloak  of  good  russet-cloth.  But  first  of  all,  he  washed  his  head  and 
face  in  five  kettlefuls  of  water,  if  not  in  six  (for  as  to  the  exact  number  there  is  some 
dispute),  and  it  is  observable  that  the  water  still  retained  a tincture  of  whey,  thanks  to 
Sancho’s  gluttony,  which  had  made  him  clap  into  his  master’s  helmet  those  dismal  curds  that 
so  contaminated  his  awful  head  and  face. 

In  this  dress  the  knight,  with  a graceful  and  sprightly  air,  walked  into  another  room,  where 
Don  Lorenzo,  the  young  gentleman  whom  we  have  already  mentioned,  waited  his  coming, 
to  keep  him  company  till  the  cloth  was  laid  ; the  mistress  of  the  house  being  gone,  in  the 
meantime,  to  provide  a handsome  entertainment,  that  might  convince  her  guest  she  understood 
how  to  make  those  welcome  that  came  to  her  house.  But  before  the  knight  was  ready,  Don 
Lorenzo  had  leisure  to  talk  with  his  father  about  him. 

“ Pray,  sir,”  said  he,  “ who  is  the  gentleman  you  have  brought  with  you  ? Considering 
his  name,  his  aspect,  and  the  title  of  knight-errant  which  you  give  him,  neither  my  mother 
nor  I can  tell  what  to  think  of  him.” 

“ Truly,  son,”  answered  Don  Diego,  “ I do  not  know  what  to  say  to  you.  All  that  I can 
inform  you  of  is  that  I have  seen  him  play  the  maddest  pranks  in  the  world,  and  yet  say  a 
thousand  sensible  things  that  contradict  his  actions.  But  talk  with  him  yourself,  and  feel  the 
pulse  of  his  understanding  ; make  use  of  your  sense  to  judge  of  his,  though,  to  tell  you  the 
truth,  I believe  his  folly  exceeds  his  discretion.” 

Don  Lorenzo  then  went  to  entertain  Don  Quixote,  and  after  some  discourse  had  passed 
between  them,  “ Sir.”  said  the  knight,  “ I am  not  wholly  a stranger  to  your  merit ; Don  Diego 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  485 

de  Miranda,  your  father,  has  given  me  to  understand  you  are  a person  ot  excellent  parts,  and 
especially  a great  poet.” 

“ Sir,”  answered  the  young  gentleman,  “ I may  perhaps  pretend  to  poetry,  but  never  to 
be  a great  poet.  It  is  true,  I am  somewhat  given  to  rhyming,  and  love  to  read  good  authors, 
but  I am  very  far  from  deserving  to  be  thought  one  of  their  number.’ 

“ I do  not  mislike  your  modesty,”  replied  Don  Quixote ; “ it  is  a virtue  not  often  found 
among  poets,  for  almost  every  one  of  them  thinks  himself  the  greatest  in  the  world.” 

“ There  is  no  rule  without  an  exception,”  said  Don  Lorenzo  ; “ and  it  is  not  impossible 

but  there  may  be  one  who  may  deserve-  the  name,  though  he  does  not  think  so  himself.’ 

“ That  is  very  unlikely,”  replied  Don  Quixote.  “ But,  pray,  sir,  tell  me  what  verses  are 
those  that  your  father  says  you  are  so  puzzled  about  ? If  it  should  be  what  we  call  a gloss 
or  a paraphrase,  I understand  something  of  that  way  of  writing,  and  should  be  glad  to  see  it. 
If  the  composition  be  designed  for  a poetical  prize,  I would  advise  you  only  to  put  in  for  the 
second ; for  the  first  always  goes  by  favour,  and  is  rather  granted  to  the  great  quality  of  the 

author  than  to  his  merit;  but  as  to  the  next,  it  is  adjudged  to  the  most  deserving;  so  that 

the  third  may  in  a manner  be  esteemed  the  second,  and  the  first  no  more  than  the  third, 
according  to  the  methods  used  in  our  universities  of  giving  degrees.  And  yet,  after  all,  it  is 
no  small  matter  to  gain  the  honour  of  being  called  the  first.” 

“Hitherto  all  is  well,”  thought  Don  Lorenzo  to  himself;  “I  cannot  think  thee  mad  yet; 

let  us  go  on.”  With  that,  addressing  himself  to  Don  Quixote,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ you  seem  to 
me  to  have  frequented  the  schools ; pray,  what  science  has  been  your  particular  study  ? ” 

“ That  of  knight-errantry,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ which  is  as  good  as  that  of  poetry, 

and  somewhat  better,  too.” 

“ I do  not  know  what  sort  of  science  that  is,”  said  Don  Lorenzo,  “ nor,  indeed,  did  I ever 
hear  of  it  before.” 

“It  is  a science,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “that  includes  in  itself  all  the  other  sciences  in 
the  world,  or  at  least  the  greatest  part  of  them.  Whoever  professes  it,  ought  to  be  learned  in 

the  laws,  and  understand  distributive  and  commutative  justice,  in  order  to  right  all  mankind. 

He  ought  to  be  a divine,  to  give  a reason  of  his  faith  and  vindicate  his  religion  by  dint  of 

argument.  He  ought  to  be  skilled  in  physic,  especially  in  the  botanic  part  of  it,  that  he  may 

know  the  nature  of  simples,  and  have  recourse  to  those  herbs  that  can  cure  wounds  ; for  a 
knight-errant  must  not  expect  to  find  surgeons  in  the  woods  and  deserts.  He  must  be  an 
astronomer,  to  understand  the  motions  of  the  celestial  orbs,  and  find  out  by  the  stars  the  hour 
of  the  night,  and  the  longitude  and  latitude  of  the  climate  in  which  fortune  throws  him  ; and 
he  ought  to  be  well  instructed  in  all  the  other  parts  of  the  mathematics,  that  science  being  of 
constant  use  to  a professor  of  arms,  on  many  accounts,  too  numerous  to  be  related.  I need 
not  tell  you  that  all  the  divine  and  moral  virtues  must  centre  in  his  mind.  To  descend  to 
less  material  qualificat'ons  : he  must  be  able  to  swim  like  a fish,  know  how  to  shoe  a horse. 


486 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


mend  a saddle  or  bridle,  and,  returning  to  higher  matters,  he  ought  to  be  inviolably  devoted  to 
Heaven  and  his  mistress,  chaste  in  his  thoughts,  modest  in  words,  liberal  and  valiant  in 
deeds,  patient  in  afflictions,  charitable  to  the  poor,  and,  finally,  a maintainer  of  truth,  though 
it  cost  him  his  life  to  defend  it.  These  are  the  endowments  to  constitute  a good  knight-errant ; 
and  now,  sir,  be  you  a judge  whether  the  professors  of  chivalry  have  an  easy  task  to  perform, 
and  whether  such  a science  may  not  stand  in  competition  with  the  most  celebrated  and  best 
of  those  that  are  taught  in  colleges.” 

“If  it  be  so,”  answered  Don  Lorenzo,  “ I say  it  deserves  the  pre-eminence  over  all  other 
sciences.” 

“What  do  you  mean,  sir,  by  that  ‘if  it  be  so?’”  cried  Don  Quixote. 

“ I mean,  sir,”  cried  Don  Lorenzo,  “ that  I doubt  whether  there  are  now,  or  ever  were, 
any  knights-errant,  especially  with  so  many  rare  accomplishments.” 

“ This  makes  good  what  I have  often  said,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ most  people  will 
not  be  persuaded  there  ever  were  any  knights-errant  in  the  world.  Now,  sir,  because  I verily 
believe  that,  unless  Heaven  will  work  some  miracle  to  convince  them  that  there  have  been, 
and  still  are,  knights-errant.  those  incredulous  persons  are  too  much  wedded  to  their  opinion 
to  admit  such  a belief,  I will  not  now  lose  time  to  endeavour  to  let  you  see  how  much  you 
and  they  are  mistaken  ; all  I design  to  do  is  only  to  beseech  Heaven  to  convince  you  of  your 
being  in  an  error,  that  you  may  see  how  useful  knights-errant  were  in  former  ages,  and  the 
vast  advantages  that  would  result  in  ours  from  the  assistance  of  men  of  that  profession.  But 
now  effeminacy,  sloth,  luxury,  and  ignoble  pleasures  triumph,  for  the  punishment  of  our  sins.” 

“Now,”  said  Lorenzo  to  himself,  “our  gentleman  has  already  betrayed  his  blind  side; 

but  yet  he  gives  a colour  of  reason  to  his  extravagance,  and  I were  a fool  should  I think 

otherwise.” 

Here  they  were  called  to  dinner,  which  ended  the  discourse.  And  at  that  time  Don  Diego, 
taking  his  son  aside,  asked  him  what  he  thought  of  the  stranger. 

“ I think,  sir,”  said  Don  Lorenzo,  “ that  it  is  not  in  the  power  of  all  the  physicians  in  the  world 

to  cure  his  distemper.  He  is  mad  past  recovery,  but  yet  he  has  lucid  intervals.” 

In  short,  they  dined,  and  their  entertainment  proved  such  as  the  old  gentleman  had  told  the 
knight  he  used  to  give  his  guests — neat,  plentiful,  and  well-ordered.  But  that  which  Don 
Quixote  most  admired  was  the  extraordinary  silence  he  observed  through  the  whole  house,  as 
if  it  had  been  a monastery  of  mute  Carthusians. 

The  cloth  being  removed,  grace  said,  and  hands  washed,  Don  Quixote  earnestly  desired 
Don  Lorenzo  to  show  him  the  verses  he  had  written  for  the  poetical  prize. 

“ Well,  sir,”  answered  he,  “ because  I will  not  be  like  those  poets  that  are  unwilling  to 
show  their  verses  when  entreated  to  do  it,  but  will  tire  you  with  them  when  nobody  desires 
it.  I will  show  you  my  gloss  or  paraphrase,  which  I did  not  write  with  a design  to  get  a prize, 
but  only  to  exercise  my  muse.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


487 

“ I remember,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ a friend  of  mine,  a man  of  sense,  once  told  me  he 
would  not  advise  any  one  to  break  his  brains  about  that  sort  of  composition  ; and  he  gave 
me  this  reason  for  it,  that  the  gloss  or  comment  could  never  come  up  to  the  theme ; so  far 
from  it,  that  most  commonly  it  left  it  altogether,  and  ran  contrary  to  the  thought  of  the 
author.  Besides,  he  said  that  the  rules  to  which  custom  ties  up  the  composers  of  those 
elaborate  amusements  are  too  strict,  allowing  no  interrogations,  no  such  interjections  as  ‘ said 
he,’  or  ‘ shall  I say,’  no  changing  of  nouns  into  verbs,  nor  any  altering  of  the  sense  ; besides 
several  other  confinements  that  cramp  up  those  who  puzzle  their  brains  with  such  a crabbed 
way  of  glossing,  as  you  yourself,  sir,  without  doubt,  must  know.” 

“ Really,  Signior  Don  Quixote,”  said  Don  Lorenzo,  “ I would  fain  catch  you  tripping,  but 
you  still  slip  from  me  like  an  eel.” 

“ I do  not  know,  sir,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ what  you  mean  by  your  slipping.” 

“ I will  tell  you  another  time,”  answered  the  young  gentleman  ; “ in  the  meanwhile  be 
pleased  to  hear  the  theme  and  paraphrase,  which  is  this  : — ■ 

THE  THEME. 

“ Could  I recall  departed  joy, 

Though  barr’d  the  hopes  of  greater  gain. 

Or  now  the  future  hours  employ, 

That  must  succeed  my  present  pain  ! ” 


THE  GLOSS,  OR  PARAPHRASE. 


I. 

‘ All  Fortune’s  blessings  disappear, 

She’s  fickle  as  the  wind ; 

And  now  I find  her  as  severe, 

As  once  I thought  her  kind. 

How  soon  the  fleeting  pleasure’s  past ! 
How  long  the  lingering  sorrows  last ! 

Unconstant  goddess,  through  thy  hate, 
Do  not  thy  prostrate  slave  destroy, 

I’d  ne’er  complain,  but  bless  my  fate, 
Could  I recall  departed  joy. 

II. 

Of  all  thy  gifts  I beg  but  this, 

Glut  all  mankind  with  more; 

Transport  them  with  redoubled  bliss, 

Put  only  mine  restore. 

\\  ith  thought  of  pleasure  once  possess’d, 
I’m  now  as  curst  as  I was  bless’d  ; 

Oh,  would  the  charming  hour  return, 
How  pleased  I’d  live,  how  free  from  pam  • 
I ne’er  would  pine,  I ne’er  would  mourn, 
Though  barrd  the  hopes  of  greater  gain. 


III. 

But,  oh  ! the  blessing  I implore, 

Not  fate  itself  can  give, 

Since  time  elapsed  exists  no  more, 

No  power  can  bid  it  live. 

Our  days  soon  vanish  into  nought, 
And  have  no  being  but  in  thought. 

Whate’er  began  must  end  at  last  ; 

In  vain  we  twice  would  youth  enjoy  ; 

In  vain  would  we  recall  the  past, 

Or  now  the  future  hours  employ. 

IV. 

1 Deceived  by  hope,  and  rack'd  by  fear, 
No  longer  life  can  please  ; 

I’ll  then  no  more  its  torments  bear, 
Since  death  so  soon  can  ease. 

This  hour  I’ll  die  ! — But  let  me  pause- 
A rising  doubt  my  courage  awes. 

Assist,  ye  powers,  that  rule  my  fate  ! 
Alarm  my  thoughts,  my  rage  refrain, 
Convince  my  soul  there’s  yet  a state 
That  must  succeed  my  present  pain.” 


488 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


As  soon  as  Don  Lorenzo  had  read  over  his  paraphrase,  Don  Quixote  rose  from  his  seat, 
and  taking-  him  by  the  hand,  “ By  the  highest  mansions  in  the  universe,”  cried  the  knight  aloud, 
“ noble  youth  ! you  are  the  best  poet  in  the  world,  and  deserve  to  be  crowned  with  laurel,  not 
at  Cyprus  or  Gaeta,  as  a certain  poet  said — whom  Heaven  forgive! — but  at  the  University  of 
Athens,  were  it  still  in  being,  and  at  those  of  Paris,  Bologna,  and  Salamanca.  May  those 
judges  that  deny  you  the  honour  of  the  first  prize,  be  shot  with  arrows  by  the  god  of  verse, 
and  may  the  Muses  abhor  to  come  within  their  houses!  Pray,  sir,  if  I may  beg  that  favour, 
let  me  hear  you  read  one  of  your  loftiest  productions,  for  I desire  to  have  a full  taste  of  your 
admirable  genius.” 

I need  not  tell  you  that  Don  Lorenzo  was  mightily  pleased  to  hear  himself  praised  by 
Don  Quixote,  though  he  believed  him  to  be  mad ; so  bewitching  and  welcome  a thing  is 
adulation,  even  from  those  we  at  othei  times  despise.  Don  Lorenzo  verified  this  truth  by  his 
ready  compliance  with  Don  Quixote’s  request,  and  recited  to  him  the  following  sonnet,  on  the 
story  of  Pyramus  and  Thisbe  : — 

PYRAMUS  AND  THISBE. 


A SONNET. 


See  how,  to  bless  the  loving  boy, 

The  nymph,  for  whom  he  burns  with  equal  fires, 
Pierces  the  wall  that  parts  them  from  their  joy, 
While  hovering  love  prompts,  gazes,  and  admires. 


“ The  trembling  maid  in  whispers  and  in  sighs 
Dares  hardly  breathe  the  passion  she  betrays  : 

But  silence  speaks,  and  love  through  ravish’d  eyes, 
Their  thoughts,  their  flames,  their  very  souls  conveys. 


“ Wild  with  desires,  they  sally  out  at  last, 
But  quickly  find  their  ruin  in  their  haste  : 
And  rashly  lose  all  pleasure  in  despair. 


“ Oh,  strange  mischance  ! But  do  not  fortune  blame ; 
Love  join’d  them  first,  then  death,  the  grave,  and  fame  ; 

What  loving  wretch  a nobler  fate  would  share?” 


“ Now,  Heaven  be  praised!”  said  Don  Quixote,  when  Don  Lorenzo  had  made  an  end. 
“Among  the  infinite  number  of  insipid  men  of  rhyme,  I have  at  last  found  a man  of  rhyme 
and  reason,  and,  in  a word,  an  absolute  poet.” 

Don  Quixote  stayed  four  days  at  Don  Diego’s  house,  and,  during  all  that  time,  met  with  a 
very  generous  entertainment.  However,  he  then  desired  his  leave  to  go,  and  returned  him  a 
thousand  thanks  for  his  kind  reception ; letting  him  know  that  the  duty  of  his  profession  did 
not  admit  of  his  staying  any  longer  out  of  action,,  and  therefore  he  designed  to  go  in  quest 
of  adventures,  which  he  knew  were  plentifully  to  be  found  in  that  part  of  Spain  , and  that  he 
would  employ  his  time  in  that  till  the  tilts  and  tournaments  began  at  Saragosa,  to  which  place 
it  was  now  his  chief  intent  to  go.  However,  he  would  first  go  to  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  about 
which  so  many  wonderful  stories  were  told  in  those  parts ; and  there  he  would  endeavour  to 
explore  and  discover  the  source  and  original  springs  of  the  seven  lakes,  commonly  called  the 
lakes  of  Ruydera.  Don  Diego  and  his  son  highly  commended  his  noble  resolution,  and  desired 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

him  to  command  whatever  their  house  afforded,  assuring  him  he  was  sincerely  welcome  to  do  1 
it ; the  respect  they  had  for  his  honourable  profession,  and  his  particular  merit,  obliging  them 
to  do  him  all  manner  of  service. 

In  short,  the  day  of  his  departure  came,  a day  of  joy  and  gladness  to  Don  Quixote,  but 
of  grief  and  sadness  to  poor  Sancho,  who  had  no  mind  to  change  his  quarters,  and  liked  the 
good  cheer  and  plenty  at  Don  Diego’s  house  much  better  than  his  short  hungry  commons  in 
forests  and  deserts,  or  the  sorry  pittance  of  his  ill-stored  wallets,  which  he,  however,  crammed 
with  what  he  thought  could  best  make  the  change  of  his  condition  tolerable. 

And  now  Don  Quixote  taking  his  leave  of  Don  Lorenzo,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ I do  not  know 
whether  I have  already  said  it  to  you,  but  if  I have,  give  me  leave  to  repeat  it  once  more, 
that  if  you  are  ambitious  of  climbing  up  to  the  difficult,  and  in  a manner  inaccessible,  summit 
of  the  Temple  of  Fame,  your  surest  way  is  to  leave  the  narrow  path  of  poetry,  and  follow  the 
narrower  track  of  knight-errantry,  which  in  a trice  may  raise  you  to  an  imperial  throne.”  With 
these  words  Don  Quixote  seemed  to  have  summed  up  the  whole  evidence  of  his  madness. 
However,  he  could  not  conclude  without  adding  something  more.  “ Heaven  knows,”  said  he, 

“ how  willingly  I would  take  Don  Lorenzo  with  me,  to  instruct  him  in  those  virtues  that  are 
annexed  to  the  employment  I profess,  to  spare  the  humble,  and  crush  the  proud  and  haughty. 
But  since  his  tender  years  do  not  qualify  him  for  the  hardships  of  that  life,  and  his  laudable 
exercises  detain  him,  I must  rest  contented  with  letting  you  know  that  one  way  to  acquire  fame 
in  poetry  is  to  be  governed  by  other  men’s  judgment  more  than  your  own  : for  it  is  natural  to 
fathers  and  mothers  not  to  think  their  own  children  ugly ; and  this  error  is  no  where  so  common 
as  in  the  offspring  of  the  mind.” 

Don  Diego  and  his  son  were  again  surprised  to  hear  this  medley  of  good  sense  and  extrava- 
gance, and  to  find  the  poor  gentleman  so  strongly  bent  on  the  quest  of  these  unlucky  adventures, 
the  only  aim  and  object  of  his  desires. 

After  this,  and  many  compliments  and  mutual  reiterations  of  offers  of  service,  Don  Quixot 
having  taken  leave  of  the  lady  of  the  castle,  he  on  Rozinante,  and  Sancho  on  Dapple,  set  out. 
and  pursued  their  journey. 


62 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  AMOROUS  SHEPHERD,  AND  OTHER  TRULY  COMICAL  PASSAGES. 

DON  QUIXOTE  had  not  travelled  far,  when  he  was  overtaken  by  two  men  that  looked 
like  students  or  ecclesiastics,  with  two  farmers,  all  mounted  upon  asses.  One  of  the 
scholars  had  behind  him  a small  bundle  of  linen  and  two  pairs  of  stockings,  trussed  up  in  green 
buckram  like  a portmanteau  ; the  other  had  no  other  luggage  but  a couple  of  foils  and  a pair  of 
fencing  pumps.  And  the  husbandmen  had  a parcel  of  other  things,  which  showed  that  having 
made  their  market  at  some  adjacent  town,  they  were  now  returning  home  with  their  ware.  They 
all  wondered  (as  indeed  all  others  did  that  ever  beheld  him)  what  kind  of  a fellow  Don  Quixote 
was,  seeing  him  make  a figure  so  different  from  anything  they  had  ever  seen.  The  knight 
saluted  them,  and  perceiving  their  road  lay  the  same  way,  offered  them  his  company,  entreating 
them,  however,  to  move  an  easier  pace,  because  their  asses  went  faster  than  his  horse ; and  to 
engage  them  the  more,  he  gave  them  a hint  of  his  circumstances  and  profession — that  he  was  a 
knight-errant,  travelling  round  the  world  in  quest  of  adventures ; that  his  proper  name  was  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  but  his  titular  denomination  the  Knight  of  the  Lions. 

All  this  was  Greek,  or  pedlar’s  French,  to  the  countrymen  ; but  the  students  presently  found 
out  his  blind  side.  However,  with  a respectful  distance,  “Sir  Knight,”  said  one  of  them,  “if 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


491 


you  are  not  fixed  to  any  set  stage,  as  persons  of  your  function  seldom  are,  let  us  beg  the  honour 
of  your  company ; and  you  shall  be  entertained  with  one  of  the  finest  and  most  sumptuous 
weddings  that  ever  was  seen,  either  in  La  Mancha  or  many  leagues  round  it.” 

“ The  nuptials  of  some  young  prince,  I presume  ? ” said  Don  Quixote. 

“No,  sir,”  answered  the  other,  “ but  of  a yeoman’s  son  and  a neighbour’s  daughter ; he  the 
richest  in  all  this  country,  and  she  the  handsomest  you  ever  saw.  The  entertainment  at  the 
wedding  will  be  new  and  extraordinary  ; it  is  to  be  kept  in  a meadow  near  the  village  where 
the  bride  lives.  They  call  her  Ouiteria  the  Handsome,  by  reason  of  her  beauty  ; and  the  bride- 
groom Camacho  the  Rich,  on  account  of  his  wealth.  They  are  well  matched  as  to  age,  for  she 
draws  towards  eighteen,  and  he  is  about  two-and-twenty,  though  some  nice  folks,  that  have  all 
the  pedigrees  in  the  world  in  their  heads,  will  tell  ye  that  the  bride  comes  of  a better  family 
than  he ; but  that  is  not  minded  now-a-days,  for  money,  you  know,  will  hide  many  faults.  And, 
indeed,  this  same  Camacho  is  as  free  as  a prince,  and  designs  to  spare  no  cost  upon  his 
wedding.  He  has  taken  a fancy  to  get  the  meadow  shaded  with  boughs,  that  are  to  cover  it 
like  an  arbour,  so  that  the  sun  will  have  much  ado  to  peep  through  and  visit  the  green  grass 
underneath.  There  are  also  provided  for  the  diversion  of  the  company  several  sorts  of  antics 
and  morrice-dancers,  some  with  swords,  and  some  with  bells  ; for  there  are  young  fellows  in  his 
village  can  manage  them  cleverly.  I say  nothing  of  those  that  play  tricks  with  the  soles  of  their 
shoes  when  they  dance,  leaving  that  to  the  judgments  of  their  guests.  But  nothing  that  I have 
told  or  might  tell  you  of  this  wedding  is  like  to  make  it  so  remarkable  as  the  things  which  I 
imagine  poor  Basil's  despair  will  do.  This  Basil  is  a young  fellow  that  lives  next  door  to 
Ouiteria’s  father.  Hence  love  took  occasion  to  give  birth  to  an  amour,  like  that  of  old  between 
Pyramus  and  Thisbe  ; for  Basil’s  love  grew  up  with  him  from  a child,  and  she  encouraged  his 
passion  with  all  the  kind  return  that  modesty  could  grant ; insomuch,  that  the  mutual  affection 
of  the  two  little  ones  was  the  common  talk  of  the  village.  But  Ouiteria  coming  to  years  of 
maturity,  her  father  began  to  deny  Basil  the  usual  access  to  his  house ; and  to  cut  off  his  further 
pretence,  declared  his  resolution  of  marrying  her  to  Camacho,  who  is  indeed  his  superior  in  estate, 
though  far  short  of  him  in  all  other  qualifications  ; for  Basil,  to  give  him  only  his  due,  is  the 
cleverest  fellow  we  have ; he  will  pitch  ye  a bar,  wrestle,  or  play  at  tennis  with  the  best  in  the 
country  ; he  runs  like  a stag,  leaps  like  a buck,  plays  at  nine-pins  so  well  you  would  think  he 
tips  them  down  by  witchcraft ; sings  like  a lark  ; touches  a guitar  so  skilfully,  he  even  makes  it 
speak  ; and  to  complete  his  perfections,  he  handles  a sword  like  a fencer.” 

“For  that  very  single  qualification,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “he  deserves  not  only  Ouiteria 
the  Handsome,  but  a princess  ; nay,  Queen  Guinever  herself,  were  she  now  living,  in  spite  of 
Sir  Lancelot  and  all  that  would  oppose  it.” 

“ Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  who  had  been  silent  and  listening  all  the  while,  “ my  wife  used  to 
tell  me  she  would  have  every  one  marry  with  their  match.  ‘ Like  to  like,’  quoth  one  to 
the  collier,  and  ‘every  sow  to  her  own  trough,’  as  the  other  saying  is.  As  for  my  part,  all  I 


492 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


would  have  is,  that  honest  Basil  e’en  marry  her ; for,  methinks,  I have  a huge  liking  to  the 

young  man  ; and  so  Heaven  bless  them  together,  say  I,  and  a murrain  seize  those  that  will 

spoil  a good  match  between  those  that  love  one  another ! ” 

“ Nay,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ if  marriage  should  be  always  the  consequence  of  mutual  love, 
what  would  become  of  the  prerogative  of  parents,  and  their  authority  over  their  children  ? If 

young  girls  might  always  choose  their  own  husbands,  we  should  have  the  best  families 

intermarry  with  coachmen  and  grooms,  and  young  heiresses  would  throw  themselves  away  upon 
the  first  wild  young  fellows,  whose  promising  outsides  and  assurance  make  them  set  up  for 
fortunes,  though  all  their  stock  consists  in  impudence.  For  the  understanding,  which  alone 
should  distinguish  and  choose  in  these  cases  as  in  all  others,  is  apt  to  be  blinded  or  biassed  by  love 
and  affection  ; and  matrimony  is  so  nice  and  critical  a point,  that  it  requires  not  only  our  own 
cautious  management,  but  even  the  direction  of  a superior  power  to  choose  right.  Whoever 
undertakes  a long  journey,  if  he  be  wise,  makes  it  his  business  to  find  out  an  agreeable 
companion.  How  cautious,  then,  should  he  be  who  is  to  take  a journey  for  life,  whose  fellow- 
traveller  must  not  part  with  him  but  at  the  grave ; his  companion  at  bed  and  board,  and 
sharer  of  all  the  pleasures  and  fatigues  of  his  journey,  as  the  wife  must  be  to  the  husband ! 
She  is  no  such  sort  of  ware  that  a man  can  be  rid  of  when  he  pleases.  When  once  that  is 

purchased,  no  exchange,  no  sale,  no  alienation  can  be  made ; she  is  an  inseparable  accident  to 

man.  Marriage  is  a noose,  which,  fastened  about  the  neck,  runs  the  closer  and  fits  more  uneasy 
by  our  struggling  to  get  loose  : it  is  a Gordian  knot,  which  none  can  untie,  and,  being  twisted 
with  our  thread  of  life,  nothing  but  the  scythe  of  death  can  cut  it.  I could  dwell  longer  on 
this  subject,  but  that  I long  to  know  from  the  gentleman  whether  he  can  tell  us  anything 
more  of  Basil.” 

“ All  I can  tell  you,”  said  the  student,  “ is,  that  he  is  in  the  case  of  all  desperate  lovers. 

Since  the  moment  he  heard  of  this  intended  marriage,  he  has  never  been  seen  to  smile  or  talk 

rationally ; he  is  in  a deep  melancholy,  that  might  indeed  rather  be  called  a dozing  frenzy  ; he 
talks  to  himself,  and  seems  out  of  his  senses ; he  hardly  eats  or  sleeps,  and  lives  like  a savage 
in  the  open  fields — his  only  sustenance  a little  fruit,  and  his  only  bed  the  hard  ground  ; 
sometimes  he  lifts  up  his  eyes  to  heaven,  then  fixes  them  on  the  ground,  and  in  either  posture 

stands  like  a statue.  In  short,  he  is  reduced  to  that  condition  that  we  who  are  his  acquaintance 

verily  believe  that  this  wedding  to-morrow  will  be  attended  by  his  death.” 

“Heaven  forbid,  marry  and  amen!”  cried  Sancho.  “Who  can  tell  what  may  happen? 
‘He  that  gives  a broken  head  can  give  a plaister.’  ‘This  is  one  day,  but  to-morrow  is 
another,’ and  ‘ strange  things  may  fall  out  in  the  roasting  of  an  egg.’  ‘After  a storm  comes 
a calm.’  Many  a man  that  went  to  bed  well  has  found  himself  dead  in  the  morning  when  he 

awaked.  ‘Who  can  put  a spoke  in  Fortune’s  wheel?’  nobody  here,  I am  sure.  Between 

a woman’s  yea  and  nay,  I would  not  engage  to  put  a pin’s  point,  so  close  they  be  one  to 
another.  If  Mrs.  Quiteria  love  Mr.  Basil,  she  will  give  Carnacho  the  bag  to  hold  : for  this  same 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


493 


love,  they  say,  looks  through  spectacles  that  make  copper  like  gold,  a cart  like  a coach,  and  a 
shrimp  like  a lobster.” 

“Whither,  in  the  name  of  ill-luck,  art  thou  running  now,  Sancho?”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“ When  thou  fallest  to  threading  thy  proverbs  and  old  wives’  sayings,  it  is  impossible  for  any  one 
to  stop  thee.  What  dost  thou  know,  poor  animal,  of  Fortune,  or  her  wheel,  or  anything  else  ?” 

“ Why,  truly,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ if  you  don’t  understand  me,  no  wonder  if  my  sentences 

be  thought  nonsense.  But  let  that  pass,  I understand  myself;  and  I am  sure  I have  not 

talked  so  much  like  a ninny.  But  you,  forsooth,  are  so  sharp  a cricket.” 

“A  critic,  blockhead!”  said  Don  Quixote,  “thou  confounded  corrupter  of  human  speech!” 

“ By  yea  and  by  nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ what  makes  you  so  angry,  sir  ? I was  never 
brought  up  at  school  nor  ’varsity,  to  know  when  I murder  a hard  word.  I was  never  at  court 

to  learn  to  spell,  sir.  Some  are  born  in  one  town,  some  in  another;  one  at  St.  Jago,  another  at 

Toledo;  and  even  there  all  are  not  so  nicely  spoken.” 

‘‘You  are  in  the  right,  friend,”  said  the  student  : “those  natives  of  that  city,  who  live  among 
the  tanners,  or  about  the  market  of  Zocodover,  are  confined  to  mean  conversation,  and  cannot  speak 
so  well  as  those  that  frequent  the  polite  part  of  the  town,  and  yet  they  are  all  of  Toledo.  But 
propriety,  purity,  and  elegance  of  style  may  be  found  among  men  of  breeding  and  judgment, 
let  them  be  born  where  they  will ; for  their  judgment  is  in  the  grammar  of  good  language,, 
though  practice  and  example  will  go  a good  way.  As  for  my  part,  I have  had  the  happiness 
of  good  education  ; it  has  been  my  fortune  to  study  the  civil  law  at  Salamanca,  and  I have 
made  it  my  business  all  along  to  express  myself  properly,  neither  like  a rustic  nor  a pedant.” 

“ Ay,  ay,  sir,”  said  the  other  student,  “ your  parts  might  have  qualified  you  for  a master  of 
arts  degree,  had  you  not  misemployed  them  in  minding  so  much  those  foolish  foils  you  carry  about 
with  you,  and  that  make  you  lag  behind  your  juniors.” 

“ Look  you,  good  Sir  Batchelor,”  said  the  other,  “ your  mean  opinion  of  these  foils  is 
erroneous  and  absurd  ; for  I can  deduce  the  usefulness  of  the  art  of  fencing  from  several  undeniable 
axioms.” 

“ Pshaw,”  said  Corchuelo,  for  so  was  the  other  called,  “ don’t  talk  of  axioms.  I will  fight  you, 
sir,  at  your  weapons.  Here  am  I that  understand  neither  quart  nor  tierce  ; but  I have  an  arm,  I 
have  strength,  and  I have  courage.  Give  me  one  of  your  foils,  and  in  spite  of  all  your  distances, 
circles,  falsifies,  angles,  and  all  other  terms  of  your  art,  I will  show  you  there  is  nothing  in  it,  and 
will  make  reason  glitter  in  your  eyes.  That  man  breathes  not  vital  air  that  I will  turn  my  back 
on  ; and  he  must  have  more  than  human  force  that  can  stand  his  ground  against  me.” 

“ As  for  standing  ground,”  said  the  artist,  “ I won’t  be  obliged  to  it.  But  have  a care,  sir, 
how  you  press  upon  a man  of  skill,  for  ten  to  one,  at  the  very  first  advance,  but  he  is  in  your 
body  up  to  the  hilt.” 

“ I will  try  that  presently,”  said  Corchuelo  ; and  springing  briskly  from  his  ass,  snatched 
one  of  the  foils  which  the  student  carried. 


494 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Hold,  hold,  sir,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  stand  judge  of  the  field,  and  see  fair  play  on  both 
sides;”  and  interposing  with  his  lance,  he  alighted,  and  gave  the  artist  time  to  put  himself  in  his 
posture  and  take  his  distance. 

Then  Corchuelo  flew  at  him  like  a fury,  helter-skelter,  cut  and  thrust,  back-stroke  and  fore- 
stroke, single  and  double,  and  laid  on  like  any  lion.  But  the  student  stopped  him  in  the  middle  of 
his  career  with  such  a blow  in  the  teeth,  that  he  made  Corchuelo  foam  at  the  mouth.  He  made  him 
kiss  the  button  of  his  foil,  as  if  it  had  been  a relic,  though  not  altogether  with  so  much  devotion, 
In  short,  he  told  all  the  buttons  of  his  short  cassock  with  pure  clean  thrusts,  and  made  the  skirts  of 
it  hang  about  him  in  rags  like  fish-tails.  Twice  he  struck  off  his  hat,  and  in  fine  so  mauled  and 
tired  him,  that  through  perfect  vexation  Corchuelo  took  the  foil  by  the  hilt,  and  hurled  it  from 
him  with  such  violence,  that  one  of  the  countrymen  that  were  by,  happening  to  be  a notary-public, 
has  it  upon  record  to  this  day,  that  he  threw  it  almost  three-quarters  of  a league  ; which  testimony 
has  served  and  yet  serves  to  let  posterity  know  that  strength  is  overcome  by  art. 

At  last  Corchuelo,  puffing  and  blowing,  sat  down  to  rest  himself,  and  Sancho,  coming  up  to 
him,  “ Mr.  Batchelor,”  quoth  he,  “ henceforward  take  a fool’s  advice,  and  never  challenge  a man  to 
fence,  but  to  wrestle  or  pitch  the  bar ; you  seem  cut  out  for  those  sports  : but  this  fencing  is  a 
ticklish  point,  sir ; meddle  no  more  with  it,  for  I have  heard  some  of  your  masters  of  the  science 
say  they  can  hit  the  eye  of  a needle  with  the  point  of  a sword.” 

Corchuelo  acknowledged  himself  convinced  of  an  error  by  experience,  and  embracing  the  artist, 
they  became  the  better  friends  for  this  tilting.  So,  without  staying  for  the  notary  that  went  for  the 
foil,  and  could  not  be  back  in  a great  while,  they  put  on  to  the  town  where  Ouiteria  lived,  they  all 
dwelling  in  the  same  village. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

AN  ACCOUNT  OF  RICH  CAMACHO’S  WEDDING,  AND  WHAT  BEFELL  POOR  BASIL. 

SCARCE  had  the  fair  Aurora  given  place  to  the  refulgent  ruler  of  the  day,  and  allowed  him 
time,  with  the  heat  of  his  prevailing  rays,  to  dry  the  liquid  pearls  on  his  golden  locks, 
when  Don  Quixote,  shaking  off  sluggish  sleep  from  his  drowsy  limbs,  arose  and  called  his  squire ; 
but  finding  him  still  snoring,  “ Oh,  thou  most  happy  mortal  upon  earth,”  said  he,  “ how  sweet  is 
thy  repose ! envied  by  none,  and  envying  no  man’s  greatness,  secure  thou  sleepest,  thy  soul 
composed  and  calm  ; no  power  of  magic  persecutes  thee,  nor  are  thy  thoughts  affrighted  by 

(enchantments.  Sleep  on,  sleep  on,  a hundred  times,  sleep  on.  Those  jealous  cares  that  break 
a lover’s  heart  do  not  extend  to  thee  ; neither  the  dread  of  craving  creditors,  nor  the  dismal 
foresight  of  inevitable  want,  or  care  of  finding  bread  for  a helpless  family,  keep  thee  waking. 
Ambition  does  not  make  thee  uneasy,  the  pomp  and  vanity  of  this  world  do  not  perplex  thy 
mind;  for  all  thy  care’s  extent  reaches  but  to  thy  ass.  Thy  person  and  thy  welfare  thou  hast 
committed  to  my  charge — a burden  imposed  on  masters  by  nature  and  custom,  to  weigh  and 
counterpoise  the  offices  of  servants.  Which  is  the  greatest  slave  ? The  servant’s  business  is 
performed  by  a few  manual  duties,  which  only  reconcile  him  more  to  rest,  and  make  him  sleeji 


40  don  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

more  sound;  while  the  anxious  master  has  not  leisure  to  close  his  eyes,  but  must  labour  day 
and  night  to  make  provision  for  the  subsistence  of  his  servant,  not  only  in  time  of  abundance, 
but  even  when  the  heavens  deny  those  kindly  showers  that  must  supply  this  want.” 

To  all  this  fine  expostulation  Sancho  answered  not  a word,  but  slept  on,  and  was  not 
to  be  waked  by  his  master’s  calling,  or  otherwise,  till  he  pricked  him  with  the  sharp  end  of 
his  lance.  At  length,  opening  his  eyelids  half  way,  and  rubbing  them,  after  he  had  gaped 
and  yawned,  and  stretched  his  drowsy  limbs,  he  looked  about  him,  and  sniffing  up  his  nose,  “ I 
am  much  mistaken,”  quoth  he,  “ if  from  this  same  arbour  there  come  not  a pure  steam  of  a 
good  broiled  rasher,  that  comforts  my  nostrils  more  than  all  the  herbs  and  rushes  hereabouts ; 
and  a wedding  that  begins  so  savourly  must  be  a dainty  one.” 

“ Away,  cormorant ! ” said  Don  Quixote ; “ rouse,  and  let  us  go  see  it,  and  learn  how  it 
fares  with  the  disdained  Basil.” 

“Fare!”  quoth  Sancho;  “why,  if  he  be  poor,  he  must  e’en  be  so  still,  and  not  think  to 
marry  Quiteria.  It  is  a pretty  fancy,  i’  faith  ! for  a fellow  who  has  not  a cross,  to  run  madding 
after  what  is  meat  for  his  betters.  I will  lay  my  neck  that  Camacho  covers  this  same  Basil 
from  head  to  foot  with  white  sixpences,  and  will  spend  ye  more  at  a breakfast  than  the  other 

is  worth,  and  be  never  the  worse.  And  do  you  think  that  Madam  Quiteria  will  quit  her  fine 

rich  gowns  and  petticoats,  her  necklaces  of  pearl,  her  jewels,  her  finery  and  bravery,  and  all 
that  Camacho  has  given  her,  and  may  afford  to  give  her,  to  marry  a fellow  with  whom  she 
must  knit  or  spin  for  her  living  ? What  signifies  his  bar-pitching  and  fencing  ? Will  that  pay 

for  a pint  of  wine  at  a tavern  ? If  all  those  rare  parts  won’t  go  to  market,  and  make  the  pot 

boil,  any  one  may  take  them  for  me  : though  where  they  light  on  a man  that  has  wherewithal, 
may  I never  stir  if  they  do  not  set  him  off  rarely.  With  good  materials  on  a good  foundation, 
a man  may  build  a good  house,  and  money  is  the  best  foundation  in  the  world.” 

“For  Heaven’s  sake,  dear  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “bring  thy  tedious  harangue  to  a 
•conclusion.  For  my  part,  I believe,  wert  thou  let  alone  when  thy  clack  is  once  set  a going, 
thou  wouklest  scarce  allow  thyself  time  to  eat  or  sleep,  but  wouldest  prate  on  to  the  end  of 
the  chapter.” 

“Troth,  master.”  replied  Sancho,  “your  memory  must  be  very  short  not  to  remember  the 
articles  of  our  agreement  before  I came  this  last  journey  with  you.  I was  to  speak  what  I 
would  and  when  I would,  provided  I said  nothing  against  my  neighbour  or  your  worship’s 
authority;  and  I don’t  see  that  I have  broken  my  indentures  yet.” 

“ I remember  no  such  article,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  though  it  were  so,  it  is  my 
pleasure  you  now  be  silent  and  attend  me  ; for  the  instruments  we  heard  last  night  begin  to 
cheer  the  valleys,  and  doubtless  the  marriage  will  be  solemnised  this  morning,  ere  the  heat  of 
the  day  prevent  the  diversion.” 

Thereupon  Sancho  said  no  more,  but  saddled  Rozinante,  and  clapped  his  pack-saddle  on 
Dapple’s  back  ; then,  both  mounting,  away  they  rode  fair  and  softly  into  the  arbour.  The 


63 


“ To  all  this  fine  expostulation  Sancho  answered  not  a word.*—/.  49k 


498 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


first  thing  that  blessed  Sancho’s  sight  there  was  a whole  steer  spitted  on  a large  elm,  before  a 
mighty  fire  made  of  a pile  of  wood,  that  seemed  a flaming  mountain.  Round  this  bonfire  were 
placed  six  capacious  pots,  cast  in  no  common  mould,  or  rather  six  ample  coppers,  every  one 
containing  a whole  shamble  of  meat,  and  entire  sheep  were  sunk  and  lost  in  them,  and  soaked 
as  conveniently  as  pigeons.  The  branches  of  the  trees  round  were  all  garnished  with  an  infinite 
number  of  cased  hares  and  plucked  fowls  of  several  sorts  : and  then  for  drink,  Sancho  counted 
above  threescore  skins  of  wine,  each  of  which  contained  above  two  arrobas,  and,  as  it 
afterwards  proved,  sprightly  liquor.  A goodly  pile  of  white  loaves  made  a large  rampart  on 
the  one  side,  and  a stately  wall  of  cheeses,  set  up  like  bricks,  made  a comely  bulwark  on  the 
other.  Two  pans  of  oil,  each  bigger  than  a dyer’s  vat,  served  to  fry  their  pancakes,  which 
they  lifted  out  with  two  strong  peels  when  they  were  fried  enough,  and  then  they  dipped  them 
in  as  large  a kettle  of  honey  prepared  for  that  purpose.  To  dress  all  this  provision,  there 
were  above  fifty  cooks,  men  and  women,  all  cleanly,  diligent,  and  cheerful.  In  the  ample  belly 
of  the  steer,  they  had  stewed  up  twelve  little  sucking  pigs  embowelled,  to  give  it  the  more 
savoury  taste.  Spices  of  all  sorts  lay  about  in  such  plenty,  that  they  appeared  to  be  bought 
by  wholesale.  In  short,  the  whole  provision  was  indeed  country-like,  but  plentiful  enough  to 
feast  an  army. 

Sancho  beheld  all  this  with  wonder  and  delight.  The  first  temptation  that  captivated  his 
senses  was  the  goodly  pots ; his  bowels  yearned,  and  his  mouth  watered  at  the  dainty  contents  : 
by-and-by  he  fell  desperately  in  love  with  the  skins  of  wine  ; and  lastly,  his  affections  were 
fixed  on  the  frying-pans,  if  such  honourable  kettles  may  accept  of  the  name.  The  scent  of  the 
fried  meat  put  him  into  such  a commotion  of  spirit,  that  he  could  hold  out  no  longer,  but 
accosting  one  of  the  busy  cooks  with  all  the  smooth  and  hungry  reasons  he  was  master  of, 
he  begged  his  leave  to  sop  a luncheon  of  bread  in  one  of  the  pans. 

“Friend,”  quoth  the  cook,  “no  hunger  must  be  felt  near  us  to-day,  thanks  to  the  founder. 
Light,  ’light,  man,  and  if  thou  canst  find  ever  a ladle  there,  skim  out  a pullet  or  two,  and 
much  good  may  they  do  you.” 

“ Alack-a-day  !”  quoth  Sancho,  “I  see  no  ladle,  sir.” 

“Blood  and  suet!”  cried  the  cook,  “what  a silly,  helpless  fellow  thou  art!  Let  me  see.”' 
With  that  he  took  a kettle,  and  sousing  it  into  one  of  the  pots,  he  fished  out  three  hens  and  a 
couple  of  geese  at  one  time.  “ Here,  friend,”  said  he  to  Sancho,  “ take  this,  and  make  shift, 
to  stay  your  stomach  with  that  till  dinner  be  ready.” 

“Heaven  reward  you!”  cried  Sancho,  “but  where  shall  I put  it?” 

“Here,”  answered  the  cook,  “take  ladle  and  all,  and  thank  the  founder,  once  more,  I say p 
nobody  will  grudge  it  thee.” 

While  Sancho  was  thus  employed,  Don  Quixote  saw  twelve  young  farmers’  sons,  all 
dressed  very  gay,  enter  upon  stately  mares,  as  richly  and  gaudily  equipped  as  the  country 
could  afford,  with  little  bells  fastened  to  their  furniture.  These,  in  a close  body,  made  several 


ARRIVAL  OF  DON  QUIXOTE  AT  THE  WEDDING  OF  CAMACHO  AND  QUITERIA. — p.  498. 


5oo 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


careers  up  and  down  the  meadow,  merrily  shouting  and  crying  out,  “ Long  live  Camacho  and 
Quiteria ! he  as  rich  as  she  is  fair,  and  she  the  fairest  in  the  world!” 

“ Poor  ignorants ! ” thought  Don  Quixote,  overhearing  them,  “ you  speak  as  you  know  ; but 
had  you  ever  seen  my  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  you  would  not  be  so  lavish  of  your  praises  here.” 

In  a little  while,  at  several  other  parts  of  the  spacious  arbour  entered  a great  number  of 
dancers,  and,  amongst  the  rest,  twenty-four  young  active  country-lads,  in  their  fine  holland  shirts, 
with  their  handkerchiefs  wrought  with  several  colours  of  fine  silk,  wound  about  their  heads, 
each  of  them  with  sword  in  hand.  They  danced  a military  dance,  and  skirmished  with  one 
another,  mixing  and  intermixing  with  their  naked  swords,  with  wonderful  sleight  and  activity, 
without  hurting  each  other  in  the  least. 

This  dance  pleased  Don  Quixote  mightily,  and  though  he  was  no  stranger  to  such  sort 
of  dances,  he  thought  it  the  best  he  had  ever  seen.  There  was  another  he  also  liked  very 
well,  performed  by  most  beautiful  young  maids,  between  fourteen  and  eighteen  years  of  age, 
clad  in  light  green,  with  their  hair  partly  filleted  up  with  ribbons,  and  partly  hanging  loose 
about  their  shoulders,  as  bright  and  lovely  as  the  sun’s  golden  beams.  Above  all  they  wore 
garlands  of  roses,  jasmine,  amaranth,  and  honeysuckles.  They  were  led  up  by  a reverend  old 
man  and  a matronly  woman,  both  much  more  light  and  active  than  their  years  seemed  to 
promise.  They  danced  to  the  music  of  Zamora  bagpipes  ; and  such  was  the  modesty  of  their 
looks,  and  the  agility  of  their  feet,  that  they  appeared  the  prettiest  dancers  in  the  world. 

After  these  came  in  an  artificial  dance  or  masque,  consisting  of  eight  nymphs,  cast  into  two 
divisions,  of  which  Love  led  one,  and  Wealth  the  other ; one  with  his  wings,  his  bow,  his 
arrows,  and  his  quiver ; the  other  arrayed  in  several  gaudy  colours  of  gold  and  silk.  The  nymphs 
of  Cupid’s  party  had  their  names  inscribed  in  large  characters  behind  their  backs.  The  first  Avas 
Poesy,  Prudence  Avas  the  next,  the  third  Nobility,  and  Valour  was  the  fourth.  Those  that  attended 
Wealth  Avere  Liberality,  ReAvard,  Treasure,  and  Peaceable  Possession.  Before  them  came  a 
pageant  representing  a castle  draAvn  by  four  savages  clad  in  green,  covered  over  with  ivy,  and 
grim  surly  vizards  on  their  faces,  so  to  the  life  that  they  had  almost  frightened  Sancho.  On  the 
frontispiece,  and  on  every  quarter  of  the  edifice,  Avas  inscribed,  “ The  Castle  of  Wise  Reservedness.” 
P our  expert  musicians  played  .to  them  on  pipe  and  tabor.  Cupid  began  the  dance,  and,  after 
two  movements,  he  cast  up  his  eyes  and  bent  his  boAV  against  a virgin  that  stood  upon  the 
battlements  of  the  castle,  addressing  himself  in  this  manner  : — 


“ My  name  is  Love,  supreme  my  sway  ; 

The  greatest  good  and  greatest  pain. 

Air,  earth,  and  seas  my  power  obey, 

And  gods  themselves  must  drag  my  chain. 

Having  spoken  these  verses,  Cupid  shot 
station.  Then  Wealth  advanced  and  performed 
and  he  expressed  himself  thus  : — 


“In  every  heart  my  throne  I keep, 

Fear  ne’er  could  daunt  my  daring  soul : 

I fire  the  bosom  of  the  deep, 

And  the  profoundest  hell  control.” 

an  arroAv  over  the  castle,  and  retired  to  his 
two  movements  ; after  which  the  music  stopped, 


Mak?  shift  to  stay  your  stomach  with  that  till  dinner  be  ready.”—/.  498 


502 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


u Love’s  my  incentive  and  my  end, 

But  I’m  a greater  power  than  Love  ; 
Though  earthly  born,  I earth  transcend, 
For  Wealth’s  a blessing  from  above. 


“ Bright  maid,  with  me  receive  and  bless 
The  surest  pledge  of  all  success ; 

Desired  by  all,  used  right  by  few, 

But  best  bestow’d,  when  graced  by  youT 


Wealth  withdrew,  and  Poesy  came  forward,  and  after  she  had  performed  her  movements 
like  the  rest,  fixing  her  eyes  upon  the  lady  of  the  castle,  repeated  these  lines  : — 


Sweet  Poesy  in  moving  lays 

Love  into  hearts,  sense  into  souls  conveys  ; 

With  sacred  rage  can  tune  to  bliss  or  woe, 
Sways  all  the  man,  and  gives  him  heaven  below. 


“ Bright  nymph,  with  every  grace  adorn’d, 

Shall  noble  verse  by  thee  be  scorn’d  ? 

’Tis  wit  can  best  thy  beauty  prize  ; 

Then  raise  the  Muse,  and  thou  by  her  shalt  rise.1 


Poesy  retired,  and  Liberality  advanced  from  Wealth’s  side,  and,  after  the  dance,  spoke  thus  : — 


‘ Behold  that  noble  golden  mien 
Betwixt  the  sparing  and  profuse  ! 
oood  sense  and  merit  must  be  seen 
Where  Liberality’s  in  use. 


“ But  I for  thee  will  lavish  seem  ; 

For  thee  profuseness  I’ll  approve : 
For,  where  the  merit  is  extreme, 
Who'd  not  be  prodigal  of  love  ?” 


In  this  manner  all  the  persons  of  each  party  advanced  and  spoke  their  verses,  of  which 
some  were  pretty  and  some  foolish  enough.  Then  the  two  divisions  joined  into  a very 
pretty  country-dance  ; and  still  as  Cupid  passed  by  the  castle,  he  shot  a flight  of  arrows,  and 
W ealth  battered  it  with  golden  balls ; then  drawing  out  a great  purse  of  Roman  cat’s-skin, 
that  seemed  full  of  money,  he  threw  it  against  the  castle,  the  boards  of  which  were  presently 
disjointed,  and  fell  down,  leaving  the  virgin  discovered  without  any  defence.  Thereupon  Wealth 
immediately  entered  with  his  party,  and  throwing  a golden  chain  about  her  neck,  made  a show 
of  leading  her  prisoner.  But  then  Cupid  with  his  attendants  came  to  her  rescue;  and  both 
parties  engaging,  were  parted  by  the  savages,  who  joined  the  boards  together,  enclosing  the  virgin 
as  before  ; and  all  was  performed  with  measure  and  to  the  music  that  played  all  the  while. 

When  all  was  over,  Don  Quixote  asked  one  of  the  nymphs  who  it  was  that  composed 
the  entertainment.  She  answered  that  it  was  a certain  clergyman  who  lived  in  their  town. 

“ I dare  lay  a wager,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ he  was  more  a friend  to  Basil  than  to 
Camacho,  and  knows  better  what  belongs  to  a play  than  a prayer-book.  He  has  expressed 
Basil’s  parts  and  Camacho’s  estate  very  naturally  in  the  design  of  your  dance.” 

“ God  bless  the  king  and  Camacho  ! say  I,”  quoth  Sancho,  who  heard  this. 

“ Well,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  art  a white-livered  rogue  to  change  parties  as 
thou  dost;  thou  art  like  the  rabble,  which  always  cry,  ‘Long  live  the  conqueror!’” 

“ I know  not  what  I am  like,”  replied  Sancho ; “ but  this  I know,  that  this  kettleful  of 
geese  and  hens  is  a bribe  for  a prince.  Camacho  has  filled  my  belly,  and  therefore  has 
won  my  heart.  When  shall  I ladle  such  dainty  scum  out  of  Basil’s  porridge-pots  ? ” added 
he,  showing  his  master  the  meat,  and  falling  on  lustily ; “ therefore,  a fig  for  his  abilities, 
say  I.  As  he  sows  so  let  him  reap,  and  as  he  reaps  so  let  him  sow.  My  old  grandam 
was  wont  to  say  there  were  but  two  families  in  the  world — Have-Much  and  Have-Little  ; 
and  she  had  ever  a great  kindness  for  the  family  of  the  Have- Much.  A doctor  gives 


1 hey  were  led  up  by  a reverend  old  man  and  a matronly  woman.” — p.  500. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


504 

his  advice  by  the  pulse  of  your  pocket  ; and  an  ass  covered  with  gold  looks  better  than 
a horse  with  a pack-saddle ; so,  once  more  I say,  Camacho  for  my  money ! ” 

“Well!”  said  Don  Quixote,  “thou  wilt  never  be  silent  till  thy  mouth  is  full  of  clay, 
when  thou  art  dead,  I hope  I shall  have  some  rest." 

“Faith  and  troth,  now,  master!”  quoth  Sancho,  “you  did  ill  to  talk  of  death;  Heaven 
bless  us ! it  is  no  child’s  play.  Death  eats  up  all  things,  both  the  young  lamb  and  old  sheep ; 

and  I have  heard  our  parson  say,  ‘ Death  values  a prince  no  more  than  a clown ; ’ all  is  fish 

that  comes  to  his  net ; he  throws  at  all,  and  sweeps  stakes ; he  is  no  mower  that  takes  a nap 
at  noon-day,  but  drives  on,  fair  weather  or  foul,  and  cuts  down  the  green  grass  as  well  as  the 
ripe  corn.” 

“Hold,  hold!”  cried  the  knight,  “go  no  farther,  for  thou  art  come  to  a very  handsome 
period.  Thou  hast  said  as  much  of  death,  in  thy  home-spun  cant,  as  a good  preacher  could 
have  done.  Thou  hast  got  the  knack  of  preaching,  man  ! I must  get  thee  a pulpit  and  benefice.” 

“ He  preaches  well  that  lives  well,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ that  is  all  the  divinity  I understand.” 
“ Thou  hast  divinity  enough,”  said  the  Don  ; “ only  I wonder  at  one  thing  : it  is  said  the 
beginning  of  wisdom  proceeds  from  the  fear  of  Heaven ; how  happens  it,  then,  that  thou, 
who  fearest  a lizard  more  than  Omnipotence,  shouldst  be  so  wise  ? ” 

“ Pray,  sir,”  said  Sancho,  “judge  you  of  your  knight-errantry,  and  don’t  meddle  with  other 
men’s  fears,  for  I am  as  pretty  a fearer  of  Heaven  as  any  of  my  neighbours ; and  so  let 

me  dispatch  this  scum,  and  much  good  may  it  do  thee,  honest  Sancho  ! ” 

With  that  he  attacked  it  with  so  courageous  an  appetite,  that  he  sharpened  his  master’s, 
who  would  certainly  have  kept  him  company,  had  he  not  been  prevented  by  that  which 
necessity  obliges  me  to  relate  this  instant. 


n ns  AN 


CHAPTER  XXL 

THE  PROGRESS  OF  CAMACHO’S  WEDDING,  WITH  OTHER  DELIGHTFUL  ACCIDENTS. 

WrHILE  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  were  discoursing,  as  the  former  chapter  has  told 
you,  they  were  interrupted  by  a great  noise  of  joy  and  acclamations  raised  by  the 
horsemen,  as,  shouting  and  galloping,  they  went  to  meet  the  young  couple,  who,  surrounded  by 
a thousand  instruments  and  devices,  were  coming  to  the  arbour,  accompanied  by  the  curate, 
their  relations,  and  all  the  better  sort  of  the  neighbourhood,  set  out  in  their  holiday  clothes. 

“Hey-day!”  quoth  Sancho,  as  soon  as  he  saw  the  bride;  “what  have  we  here?  Ah! 
this  is  no  country  lass,  but  a fine  court  lady,  all  in  her  silks  and  satins,  I declare  ! Look, 
look  ye,  master  ! see  if,  instead  of  glass  necklaces,  she  have  not  on  fillets  of  rich  coral,  and 
instead  of  green  serge  of  Cuencha,  a thirty-piled  velvet.  I’ll  warrant  her  lacing  is  white  linen, 
too  ; but  hold,  may  I never  squint  if  it  be  not  satin  ! Bless  us ! see  what  rings  she  has  on 
her  fingers!  no  jet,  no  pewter  baubles- — pure,  beaten  gold,  as  I am  a sinner!  and  set  with 
pearls,  too  ! if  every  pearl  be  not  as  white  as  a syllabub,  and  each  of  them  as  precious  as 
an  eye ! How  she  is  bedizened,  and  glistens  from  top  to  toe  ! And  now,  yonder  again,  what 
fine  long  locks  the  girl  has  got ! if  they  be  not  false,  I never  saw  longer  in  my  born  days. 

it.ii  « 

Well,  I say  no  more,  but  happy  is  the  man  that  has  thee  ! ” 

84 


5°6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Don  Quixote  could  not  help  smiling  to  hear  Sancho  set  forth  the  bride  after  his  rustic 
way,  though,  at  the  same  time,  he  beheld  her  with  admiration,  thinking  her  the  most  beautiful 
woman  he  had  ever  seen,  except  his  mistress  Dulcinea.  However,  the  fair  Quiteria  appeared 
somewhat  pale,  probably  with  the  ill  rest  which  brides  commonly  have  the  night  before  their 
marriage,  in  order  to  dress  themselves  to  advantage.  There  was  a large  scaffold  erected  on 
one  side  of  the  meadow,  and  adorned  with  carpets  and  boughs,  for  the  marriage  ceremony, 
and  the  more  convenient  prospect  of  the  shows  and  entertainments. 

The  procession  was  just  arrived  to  this  place,  when  they  heard  a piercing  outcry,  and  a 
voice  calling  out,  “Stay,  rash  and  hasty  people,  stay!”  Upon  which  all  turning  about,  they 
saw  a person  coming  after  them  in  a black  coat,  bordered  with  crimson,  powdered  with  flames 
of  fire.  On  his  head  he  wore  a garland  of  mournful  cypress,  and  a large  truncheon  in  his 
hand,  headed  with  an  iron  spike.  As  soon  as  he  drew  near,  they  knew  him  to  be  the  gallant 
Basil,  and  the  whole  assembly  began  to  fear  some  mischief  would  ensue,  seeing  him  come  thus 
unlooked-for  and  with  such  an  outcry  and  behaviour.  He  came  up,  tired  and.  panting,  before 
the  bride  and  bridegroom  ; then,  leaning  on  his  truncheon,  he  fixed  his  eyes  on  Ouiteria, 
turning  pale  and  trembling  at  the  same  time,  and,  with  a fearful,  hollow  voice,  “ Too  well  you 
know,”  cried  he,  “ unkind  Quiteria,  that,  by  the  ties  of  truth  and  law  of  that  Heaven  which 
we  all  revere,  while  I have  life  you  cannot  be  married  to  another.  You,  forgetting  all  the  ties 
between  us,  are  going  now  to  break  them,  and  give  my  right  to  another,  whose  large  possessions, 
though  they  can  procure  him  all  other  blessings,  I had  never  envied  if  they  had  not  purchased 
you.  But  no  more.  The  Fates  have  ordained  it,  and  I will  further  their  design,  by  removing 
this  unhappy  obstacle  out  of  your  way.  Live,  rich  Camacho,  live  happy  with  the  ungrateful 
Ouiteria  many  years,  and  let  the  poor,  the  miserable  Basil  die,  whose  poverty  has  clipped  the 
wings  of  his  felicity,  and  laid  him  in  the  grave!” 

Saying  these  last  words,  he  drew  out  of  his  supposed  truncheon  a short  tuck  that  was 
concealed  in  it,  and  setting  the  hilt  of  it  to  the  ground,  he  fell  upon  the  point  in  such  a 
manner,  that  it  came  out  all  bloody  at  his  back,  the  poor  wretch  weltering  on  the  ground  in 
blood.  His  friends,  confounded  by  this  strange  accident,  ran  to  help  him,  and  Don  Quixote, 
forsaking  Rozinante,  made  haste  to  his  assistance,  and  taking  him  up  in  his  arms,  found  there 
was  still  life  in  him.  They  would  fain  have  drawn  the  sword  out  of  his  body,  but  the  curate 
urged  it  was  not  convenient  till  he  had  made  confession  and  prepared  himself  for  death,  which 
would  immediately  attend  the  effusion  of  blood,  upon  pulling  out  the  tuck. 

While  they  were  debating  this  point,  Basil  seemed  to  come  a little  to  himself,  and  calling 
on  the  bride,  “ O Quiteria ! ” said  he,  with  a faint  and  doleful  voice,  “ now,  now,  in  this 
last  and  departing  minute  of  my  life,  even  in  this  dreadful  agony  of  death,  would  you  but 
vouchsafe  to  give  me  your  hand  and  own  yourself  my  wife,  I would  die  contented.” 

The  curate  hearing  this,  very  earnestly  recommended  to  him  the  care  of  his  soul's 
health,  which  at  the  present  juncture  was  more  proper  than  any  gratification  of  his  outward 


The  poor  virgin,  trembling  and  dismayed,  without  speaking  a word,  came  to  poor  Basil.”—/.  508. 


5°8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


man ; that  his  time  was  but  short,  and  he  ought  to  be  very  earnest  with  Heaven,  in 
imploring  its  mercy  and  forgiveness  for  all  his  sins,  but  especially  for  this  last  desperate 
action.  To  which  Basil  answered  that  he  could  think  of  no  happiness  till  Quiteria  yielded  to 
be  his ; but  if  she  would  do  it,  that  satisfaction  would  calm  his  spirits,  and  dispose  him  to 
confess  himself  heartily. 

Don  Quixote,  hearing  this,  cried  out  aloud  that  BasiL’s  demand  was  just  and  reasonable, 
and  Signior  Camacho  might  as  honourably  receive  her  as  the  worthy  Basil’s  widow  as  if  he 
had  received  her  at  her  father’s  hands.  “ Say  but  the  word,  madam,”  continued  he  ; “ pronounce 
it  once,  to  save  a man  from  despair ; you  will  not  be  long  bound  to  it,  since  the  only  bed 
of  this  bridegroom  must  be  the  grave.”  Camacho  stood  all  this  while  strangely  confounded,  till, 
at  last,  he  was  prevailed  on,  by  the  repeated  importunities  of  Basil’s  friends,  to  consent  that 
Ouiteria  should  humour  the  dying  man,  knowing  her  own  happiness  would  thereby  be  deferred 
but  a few  minutes  longer.  Then  they  all  bent  their  entreaties  to  Quiteria,  some  with  tears  in 
their  eyes,  others  with  all  the  engaging  arguments  their  pity  could  suggest.  She  stood  a long 
time  inexorable,  and  did  not  return  any  answer,  till  at  last  the  curate  came  to  her  and  bid 
her  resolve  what  she  would  do,  for  Basil  was  just  ready  to  give  up  the  ghost.  But  then  the 
poor  virgin,  trembling  and  dismayed,  without  speaking  a word,  came  to  poor  Basil,  who  lay 
gasping  for  breath,  with  his  eyes  fixed  in  his  head,  as  if  he  were  just  expiring.  She  kneeled 
down  by  him,  and,  with  the  most  manifest  signs  of  grief,  beckoned  to  him  for  his  hand.  Then 
Basil,  opening  his  eyes,  and  fixing  them  on  her,  “O  Quiteria!”  said  he;  “your  heart  at  last 
relents,  when  your  pity  comes  too  late.  Thy  arms  are  now  extended  to  relieve  me,  when  those 
of  death  draw  me  to  their  embraces  ; and  they,  alas  ! are  much  too  strong  for  thine.  All  I 
desire  of  thee,  oh,  fatal  beauty!  is  this:  let  not  that  fair  hand  deceive  me  now,  as  it  has  done 
before,  but  confess  that  what  you  do  is  free  and  voluntary,  without  constraint,  or  in  compliance 
to  any  one’s  commands ; declare  me  openly  thy  true  and  lawful  husband  ; thou  wilt  not,  sure, 
dissemble  with  one  in  death,  and  deal  falsely  with  his  departing  soul,  that  all  his  life  has  been 
true  to  thee  ? ” 

In  the  midst  of  this  discourse  he  fainted  away,  and  all  the  bystanders  thought  him 
gone.  The  poor  Quiteria,  with  a blushing  modesty,  a kind  of  violence  upon  herself,  took  him 
by  the  hand,  and  with  a great  deal  of  emotion,  “No  force,”  said  she,  “could  ever  work  upon 
my  will  to  this  degree  ; therefore,  believe  it  purely  my  own  free  will  and  inclination  that  I here 
publicly  declare  you  my  only  lawful  husband  ; here  is  my  hand  in  pledge,  and  I expect  yours  as 
freely  in  return,  if  your  pains  and  this  sudden  accident  have  not  yet  bereft  you  of  all  sense.” 

“ I give  it  you,”  said  Basil,  “ and  here  I own  myself  thy  husband.” 

“ And  I thy  wife,”  said  she,  “ whether  thy  life  be  long  or  whether  from  my  arms  they 
bear  thee  this  instant  to  the  grave.” 

“ Methinks,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ this  young  man  talks  too  much  for  a man  in  his  condition. 
Pray,  advise  him  to  leave  off  his  wooing,  and  mind  his  soul’s  health.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


509 


Now,  when  Basil  and  Quiteria  had  thus  plighted  their  faith  to  each  other,  while  yet  their 
hands  were  joined  together,  the  tender-hearted  curate,  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  poured  on  them 
both  the  nuptial  blessing,  beseeching  Heaven,  at  the  same  time,  to  have  mercy  on  the  new- 
married  man’s  soul,  and  in  a manner  mixing  the  burial  service  with  the  matrimonial. 

As  soon  as  the  benediction  was  pronounced,  up  starts  Basil  briskly  from  the  ground,  and, 
with  an  unexpected  activity,  whips  the  sword  out  of  his  body,  and  caught  his  dear  Quiteria 
close  in  his  arms.  All  the  spectators  stood  amazed,  and  some  of  the  simpler  sort  stuck  not  to 
cry  out,  “A  miracle!  a miracle!” 

“No,  no!”  cried  Basil;  “no  miracle,  no  miracle,  but  a stratagem,  a stratagem!” 

The  curate,  more  astonished  and  concerned  than  all  the  rest,  came  with  both  his  hands  to 
feel  the  wound,  and  discovered  that  the  sword  had  nowhere  passed  through  the  cunning  Basil’s 
body,  but  only  through  a tin  pipe  full  of  blood  artfully  fitted  to  his  body,  and,  as  it  was 
afterwards  known,  so  prepared,  that  the  blood  could  not  congeal.  In  short,  the  curate,  Camacho, 

and  the  company,  found  they  had  all  been  egregiously  imposed  upon.  As  for  the  bride,  she 

was  so  far  from  being  displeased,  that,  hearing  it  urged  that  the  marriage  could  not  stand  good 
in  law  because  it  was  fraudulent  and  deceitful,  she  publicly  declared  that  she  again  confirmed 
it  to  be  just,  and  by  the  free  consent  of  both  parties. 

Camacho  and  his  friends,  judging  by  this  that  the  trick  was  premeditated,  and  that  she  was 

privy  to  the  plot,  enraged  at  this  horrid  disappointment,  had  recourse  to  a stronger  argument, 
and,  drawing  their  swords,  set  furiously  on  Basil,  in  whose  defence  almost  as  many  were 
immediately  unsheathed.  Don  Quixote  immediately  maunting,  with  his  lance  couched,  and 
covered  with  his  shield,  led  the  van  of  Basil’s  party,  and  falling  in  with  the  enemy,  charged 
clear  through  the  gross  of  their  battalia.  Sancho,  who  never  liked  any  dangerous  work, 
resolved  to  stand  neuter,  and  so  retired  under  the  walls  of  the  mighty  pot  whence  he  had 
got  the  precious  skimmings,  thinking  that  would  be  respected  whatever  side  gained  the  battle. 

Don  Quixote,  addressing  himself  to  Camacho’s  party,  “ Hold,  gentlemen  ! ” cried  he;  “it  is 
not  just  thus  with  arms  to  redress  the  injuries  of  love.  Love  and  war  are  the  same  thing, 
and  stratagems  and  policy  are  as  allowable  in  the  one  as  in  the  other.  Quiteria  was  designed 
for  Basil,  and  he  for  her,  by  the  unalterable  decrees  of  Heaven.  Camacho’s  riches  may 
purchase  him  a bride  and  more  content  elsewhere.  Those  whom  Heaven  has  joined  let  no  man 
put  asunder.  Basil  had  but  this  one  lamb.  Let  none,  therefore,  offer  to  take  his  single  delight 
from  him,  though  presuming  on  his  power ; for  here  I solemnly  declare,  that  he  who  first 
attempts  it  must  pass  through  me,  and  this  lance  through  him.”  At  which  he  shook  his  lance 
in  the  air  with  so  much  vigour  and  dexterity,  that  he  cast  a sudden  terror  into  those  that 
beheld  him. 

In  short,  Don  Quixote’s  words,  the  sfood  curate’s  diligent  mediation,  together  with 
Quiteria’s  inconstancy,  brought  Camacho  to  a truce ; and  he  then  discreetly  considered  that, 
since  Quiteria  loved  Basil  before  marriage,  it  was  probable  she  would  love  him  afterwards, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


510 

and  that  therefore  he  had  more  reason  to  thank  Heaven  for  so  good  a riddance  than  to 
repine  at  losing  her.  This  thought,  improved  by  some  other  considerations,  brought  both 
parties  to  a fair  accommodation ; and  Camacho,  to  show  he  did  not  resent  the  disappointment, 
blaming  rather  Ouiteria’s  levity  than  Basil’s  policy,  invited  the  whole  company  to  stay  and 
take  share  of  what  he  had  provided.  But  Basil,  whose  virtues,  in  spite  of  his  poverty,  had 
secured  him  many  friends,  drew  away  part  of  the  company  to  attend  him  and  his  bride  to 
her  own  town,  and  among  the  rest,  Don  Quixote,  whom  they  all  honoured  as  a person  of 
extraordinary  worth  and  bravery.  Poor  Sancho  followed  his  master  with  a heavy  heart ; 
he  could  not  be  reconciled  to  the  thoughts  of  turning  his  back  so  soon  upon  the  good 
cheer  and  jollity  at  Camacho’s  feast.  So  he  sullenly  paced  on  after  Rozinante,  very  much  out 
of  humour,  though  he  had  just  filled  his  belly. 


Poor  Sancho  followed  his  master  with  a heavy  heart.”— p.  510. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 


AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GREAT  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  CAVE  OF  MONTESINOS,  SITUATED  IN  THE  HEART  OF 
LA  MANCHA,  WHICH  THE  VALOROUS  DON  QUIXOTE  SUCCESSFULLY  ACHIEVED. 

THE  new-married  couple  entertained  Don  Quixote  very  nobly,  in  acknowledgment  of  his 
readiness  to  defend  their  cause  ; they  esteemed  his  wisdom  equal  to  his  valour,  and 
thought  him  both  a Cid  in  arms  and  a Cicero  in  arts.  Honest  Sancho,  too,  recruited  himself 
to  the  purpose,  during  the  three  days  his  master  stayed,  and  so  came  to  his  good  humour 
again.  Basil  then  informed  them  that  Ouiteria  knew  nothing  of  his  stratagem  ; but  being  a 
pure  device  of  his  own,  he  had  made  some  of  his  nearest  friends  acquainted  with  it,  that  they 
should  stand  by  him  if  occasion  were,  and  bring  him  off  upon  the  discovery  of  the  deceit. 

“It  deserves  a handsomer  name,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “since  conducive  to  so  good  and 
honourable  an  end  as  the  marriage  of  a loving  couple.  By  the  way,  sir,  you  must  know  that 
the  greatest  obstacle  to  love  is  want  and  a narrow  fortune  ; for  the  continual  bands  and  cements 
of  mutual  affection  are  mirth,  content,  satisfaction,  and  jollity.  These,  managed  by  skilful  hands, 
can  make  variety  in  the  pleasures  of  wedlock,  preparing  the  same  thing  always  with  some 
additional  circumstance  to  render  it  new  and  delightful.  But  when  pressing  necessity  and 
indigence  deprive  us  of  those  pleasures  that  prevent  satiety,  the  yoke  of  matrimony  is  often 
found  very  galling,  and  the  burden  intolerable.” 

These  words  were  chiefly  directed  by  Don  Quixote  to  Basil,  to  advise  him,  by  the  way, 


princes.” — p.  514. 


65 


" Sancho  and  his  master  tarried  three  days  with  the  young  couple,  and  were  entertained  like 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


5 !4 

to  give  over  those  airy  sports,  which,  indeed,  might  feed  his  youth  with  praise,  but  not  his  old 
age  with  bread,  and  to  bethink  himself  of  some  grave  and  substantial  employment,  that  might 
afford  him  a competency  for  his  declining  years.  Then,  pursuing  his  discourse,  “ The  honourable 
poor  man,”  said  he,  “when  he  has  a beautiful  wife,  is  blessed  with  a jewel.  He  that  deprives  him 
of  her  robs  him  of  his  honour,  and  may  be  said  to  deprive  him  of  his  life.  The  woman  that 
is  beautiful,  and  keeps  her  honesty  when  her  husband  is  poor,  deserves  to  be  crowned  with 
laurel,  as  the  conquerors  were  of  old.  Beauty  is  a tempting  bait,  that  attracts  the  eyes  of  all 
beholders,  and  the  princely  eagles  and  the  most  high-flown  birds  stoop  to  its  pleasing  lure. 
But  when  they  find  it  in  necessity,  then  kites,  and  crows,  and  other  ravenous  birds,  will  all 

be  grappling  with  the  alluring  prey.  She  that  can  withstand  these  dangerous  attacks  well 

deserves  to  be  the  crown  of  her  husband.  However,  sir,  take  this  along  with  you,  as  the 
opinion  of  a wise  man,  whose  name  I have  forgot  : he  said,  there  was  but  one  good  woman 
in  the  world ; and  his  advice  was,  that  every  married  man  should  think  his  own  wife  was  her, 
as  being  the  only  way  to  live  contented.  For  my  own  part,  I need  not  make  the  application 
to  myself,  for  I am  not  married,  nor  have  I as  yet  any  thoughts  that  way ; but  if  I had,  it 
would  not  be  a woman’s  fortune,  but  her  character,  should  recommend  her  ; for  public  reputation 
is  the  life  of  a lady’s  virtue,  and  the  outward  appearance  of  modesty  is,  in  one  sense,  as  good 
as  the  reality;  since  a private  sin  is  not  so  prejudicial  in  this  world  as  a public  indecency.  If 
you  bring  an  honest  woman  to  your  home,  it  is  easy  keeping  her  so,  and  perhaps  you  may 
improve  her  virtues.  If  you  take  an  unchaste  partner,  it  is  hard  mending  her ; for  the 

extremities  of  vice  and  virtue  are  so  great  in  a woman,  and  their  points  so  far  asunder,  that  it 

is  very  improbable,  I won’t  say  impossible,  they  should  ever  be  reconciled.” 

Sancho  and  his  master  tarried  three  days  with  the  young  couple,  and  were  entertained 
like  princes.  On  taking  his  leave,  Don  Quixote  entreated  the  student,  who  fenced  so  well,  to 
help  him  to  a guide  that  might  conduct  him  to  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  resolving  to  go  down  into 
it,  and  prove  by  his  own  eyesight  the  wonders  that  were  reported  of  it  round  the  country. 
The  student  recommended  a cousin-german  of  his  for  his  conductor,  who,  he  said,  was  an 
ingenious  lad,  a good  scholar,  and  a great  admirer  of  books  of  knight-errantry,  and  could  show 
him  the  famous  lake  of  Ruydera,  too  ; adding  that  he  would  be  very  good  company  for  the 
knight,  as  being  one  that  wrote  books  for  the  booksellers,  in  order  to  dedicate  them  to  great 
men.  Accordingly,  the  learned  cousin  came,  mounted  on  an  ass  with  foal  ; his  pack-saddle 
covered  with  an  old  carpet  or  coarse  packing-cloth.  Thereupon,  Sancho  having  got  ready 
Rozinante  and  Dapple,  well  stuffed  his  wallet,  and  the  student’s  knapsack  to  boot,  they  all  took 
their  leave,  steering  the  nearest  course  to  the  cave  of  Montesinos. 

To  pass  the  time  on  the  road,  Don  Quixote  asked  the  guide  to  what  course  of  study  he 
chiefly  applied  himself. 

“ Sir,”  answered  the  scholar,  “ my  business  is  writing,  and  copy-money  my  chief  study.  I 
have  published  some  things  with  the  general  approbation  of  the  world,  and  much  to  my  own 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


515 


advantage.  Perhaps,  sir,  you  may  have  heard  of  one  of  my  books,  called  ‘ The  Treatise  of 
Liveries  and  Devices,’  in  which  I have  obliged  the  public  with  no  less  than  seven  hundred  and 
three  sorts  of  liveries  and  devices,  with  their  colours,  mottoes,  and  ciphers,  so  that  any  courtier 
may  furnish  himself  there,  upon  any  extraordinary  appearance,  with  what  may  suit  his  fancy  or 
circumstances,  without  racking  his  own  invention  to  find  what  is  agreeable  to  his  inclination. 
I can  furnish  the  jealous,  the  forsaken,  the  disdained,  the  absent,  with  what  will  fit  them  to  a 
hair.  Another  piece,  which  I now  have  on  the  anvil,  I design  to  call  ‘ The  Metamorphosis  ; 
or,  The  Spanish  Ovid,’  an  invention  very  new  and  extraordinary ; it  is,  in  short,  Ovid  burlesqued, 
wherein  I discover  who  the  Giralda  of  Seville  was  ; who  the  angel  of  Magdalen  ; I tell  ye 
what  was  the  pipe  of  Vecinguerra  of  Cordova,  what  the  bulls  of  Guisando,  the  Sierra  Morena, 
the  fountains  of  Laganitos  and  Lavapies  at  Madrid  ; not  forgetting  that  of  Piojo,  nor  those  of 
the  golden  pipe,  and  the  abbey ; and  I embellish  the  fables  with  allegories,  metaphors,  and 
translations,  that  will  both  delight  and  instruct.  Another  work,  which  I soon  design  for  the 
press,  I call  ‘ A Supplement  to  Polydore  Virgil,’  concerning  the  invention  of  things ; a piece,  I 
will  assure  you,  sir,  that  shows  the  great  pains  and  learning  of  the  compiler,  and  perhaps  in  a 
better  style  than  the  old  author.” 

Sancho  having  hearkened  with  great  attention  all  this  while,  “ Pray,  sir,”  quoth  he  to 
him,  “ so  Heaven  guide  your  right  hand  in  all  you  write,  let  me  ask  you  who  was  the  first 
man  that  scratched  his  head  ?” 

“Scratched  his  head,  friend?”  answered  the  author. 

“ Ay,  sir,  scratched  his  head,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ Sure,  you  that  know  all  things  can  tell 
me  that.  What  think  you  of  old  father  Adam  ?” 

“Old  father  Adam?”  answered  the  scholar;  “let  me  see.  Father  Adam  had  a head,  he 
had  hair,  he  had  hands,  and  he  could  scratch ; but  father  Adam  was  the  first  man — ergo , 
father  Adam  was  the  first  man  that  scratched  his  head.  It  is  plain  you  are  in  the  right.” 

“ Oh,  ho ! am  I so,  sir  ?”  quoth  Sancho.  “ Another  question,  by  your  leave,  sir.  Who  was 
the  first  tumbler  in  the  world  ?” 

“Truly,  friend,”  answered  the  student,  “that  is  a point  I cannot  resolve  you  without 
consulting  my  books  ; but,  as  soon  as  ever  I get  home,  I will  study  night  and  day  to  find  it  out.” 

“ For  two  fair  words,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I will  save  you  that  trouble.” 

“Can  you  resolve  that  doubt?”  asked  the  author. 

“Ay,  marry,  can  I,”  said  Sancho.  “The  first  tumbler  in  the  world  was  Lucifer;  when  he 
was  cast  out  of  heaven  he  tumbled  into  hell.” 

“ You  are  positively  in  the  right,”  said  the  scholar. 

“Where  did  you  get  that,  Sancho?”  said  Don  Quixote;  “for  I dare  swear  it  is  none 
of  your  own.” 

“ Mum  !”  quoth  Sancho.  “ In  asking  of  foolish  questions,  and  selling  of  bargains,  let  Sancho 
alone,  quoth  I ; I do  not  want  the  help  of  my  neighbours.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


516 

“ Truly,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  hast  given  thy  question  a better  epithet  than  thou 
art  aware  of ; for  there  are  some  men  who  busy  their  heads,  and  lose  a world  of  time  in  making 
discoveries,  the  knowledge  of  which  is  good  for  nothing  upon  the  earth,  unless  it  be  to  make 
the  discoverers  laughed  at.” 

With  these,  and  such  diverting  discourses,  they  passed  their  journey,  till  they  came  to  the 
cave  the  next  day,  having  lain  the  night  before  in  an  inconsiderable  village  on  the  road. 
There  they  bought  a hundred  fathoms  of  cordage  to  hang  Don  Quixote  by,  and  let  him 
down  to  the  lowest  part  of  the  cave,  he  being  resolved  to  go  to  the  very  bottom.  The  mouth 
of  it  was  inaccessible,  being  quite  stopped  up  with  weeds,  bushes,  brambles,  and  wild  fig-trees, 
though  the  entrance  was  wide  and  spacious.  Don  Quixote  was  no  sooner  come  to  the  place, 
but  he  prepared  for  his  expedition  into  that  under  world,  telling  the  scholar  that  he  was  resolved 
to  reach  the  bottom : and  all  having  alighted,  the  squire  and  his  guide  accordingly  girt  him 
fast  with  a rope. 

While  this  was  doing,  “ Good,  sweet  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ consider  what  you  do.  Do  not 
venture  into  such  a black  hole  ! Look  before  you  leap,  sir,  and  be  not  so  wilful  as  to  bury 
yourself  alive.  Do  not  hang  yourself  like  a bottle  or  a bucket,  that  is  let  down  to  be  soused 
in  a well.  Alack-a-day  ! sir,  it  is  none  of  your  business  to  pry  thus  into  every  hole.” 

“ Peace,  coward,”  said  the  knight,  “ and  bind  me  fast ; for  surely  for  me  such  an  enterprise 
as  this  is  reserved.” 

“ Pray,  sir,”  said  the  student,  “ when  you  are  in,  be  very  vigilant  in  exploring  and  observing 
all  the  rarities  in  the  place.  Let  nothing  escape  your  eyes ; perhaps  you  may  discover  there 
some  things  worthy  to  be  inserted  in  my  ‘Metamorphoses.’” 

“ Let  him  alone,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ he  will  go  through  with  it,  I will  warrant  you.” 

Don  Quixote  being  well  bound,  not  over  his  armour,  but  his  doublet,  bethought  himself 
of  one  thing  they  had  forgot. 

“ We  did  ill,”  said  he,  “ not  to  provide  ourselves  with  a little  bell,  that  I should  have 
carried  down  with  me,  to  ring  for  more  or  less  rope  as  I may  have  occasion  for,  and 
inform  you  of  my  being  alive.  But  since  there  is  no  remedy,  Heaven  prosper  me!”  Then, 
kneeling  down,  he  in  a low  voice  recommended  himself  to  the  Divine  Providence  for  assistance 
and  success  in  an  adventure  so  strange,  and,  to  all  appearance,  so  dangerous.  Then,  raising  his 
voice,  “ Oh,  thou  mistress  of  my  life  and  motions ! ” cried  he,  “ most  illustrious  and  peerless 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso!  if  the  prayers  of  an  adventurous  absent  lover  may  reach  the  ears  of  the 
far  distant  object  of  his  wishes,  by  the  power  of  thy  unspeakable  beauty  I conjure  thee  to 
grant  me  thy  favour  and  protection  in  this  plunge  and  precipice  of  my  fortune.  I am  now 
going  to  cast  myself  into  this  dismal  profundity,  that  the  world  may  know  nothing  can  be 
impossible  to  him  who,  influenced  by  thy  smiles,  attempts,  under  the  banner  of  thy  beauty,  the 
most  difficult  task.” 

This  said,  he  got  up  again,  and  approaching  the  entrance  of  the  cave,  he  found  it  stopped 


y/.nsm 


An  infinite  number  of  overgrown  crows  and  daws  came  rushing  and  fluttering  out  of  the  cave.”—/.  5 1 S. 


5*8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


up  with  brakes  and  bushes,  so  that  he  must  make  his  way  by  force.  Whereupon,  drawing  his 
sword,  he  began  to  cut  and  slash  the  brambles  that  stopped  up  the  mouth  of  the  cave,  when 
presently  an  infinite  number  of  overgrown  crows  and  daws  came  rushing  and  fluttering  out  of 
the  cave  about  his  ears,  so  thick,  and  with  such  an  impetuosity,  as  overwhelmed  him  to  the 
ground.  He  was  not  superstitious  enough  to  draw  any  ill  omen  from  the  flight  of  the  birds  ; 
besides,  it  was  no  small  encouragement  to  him  that  he  spied  no  bats  nor  owls,  nor  other 
ill-boding  birds  of  night  among  them.  He  therefore  rose  again  with  an  undaunted  heart,  and 
committed  himself  to  the  black  and  dreadful  abyss.  But  Sancho  first  gave  him  his  benediction, 
and  making  a thousand  crosses  over  him,  “ Heaven  be  thy  guide  ! ” quoth  he,  “ and  our  Lady 
of  the  Rock  in  France,  with  the  Trinity  of  Gaeta,  thou  flower  and  cream  of  all  knights-errant ! 
Go  thy  ways,  thou  hackster  of  the  world,  heart  of  steel,  and  arms  of  brass  ! and  mayest  thou 
come  back  sound  out  of  this  dreadful  hole  which  thou  art  running  into,  once  more  to  see  the 
warm  sun  which  thou  art  now  leaving.” 

The  scholar,  too,  prayed  to  the  same  effect  for  the  knight’s  happy  return.  Don  Quixote 
then  called  for  more  rope,  which  they  gave  him  by  degrees,  till  his  voice  was  drowned  in  the 
winding  of  the  cave,  and  their  cordage  was  run  out.  That  done,  they  began  to  consider  whether 
they  should  hoist  him  up  again  immediately  or  no  ; however,  they  resolved  to  stay  half  an  hour, 
and  then  they  began  to  draw  up  the  rope,  but  were  strangely  surprised  to  find  no  weight  upon 
it,  which  made  them  conclude  the  poor  gentleman  was  certainly  lost.  Sancho,  bursting  into 
tears,  made  a heavy  lamentation,  and  began  hauling  up  the  rope  as  fast  as  he  could,  to  be 
thoroughly  satisfied.  But  after  they  had  drawn  up  about  fourscore  fathoms,  they  felt  a weight 
again,  which  made  them  take  heart ; and  at  length  they  plainly  saw  Don  Quixote. 

“Welcome!”  cried  Sancho  to  him,  as  soon  as  he  came  in  sight;  “welcome,  dear  master! 
I am  glad  you  are  come  back  again;  we  were  afraid  you  had  been  pawned  for  the  reckoning.” 

But  Sancho  had  no  answer  to  his  compliment ; and  when  they  had  pulled  the  knight 
quite  up,  they  found  that  his  eyes  were  closed,  as  if  he  had  been  fast  asleep.  They  laid  him 
on  the  ground,  and  unbound  him,  yet  he  made  no  sign  of  waking;  and  all  their  turning  and 
shaking  was  little  enough  to  make  him  come  to  himself. 

At  last  he  began  to  stretch  his  limbs,  as  if  he  had  woke  out  of  the  most  profound  sleep, 
and  staring  wildly  about  him,  “ Heaven  forgive  you,  friends  !”  cried  he,  “ for  you  have  raised 
me  from  one  of  the  sweetest  lives  that  ever  mortal  led,  and  most  delightful  sights  that  ever 
eyes  beheld.  Now  I perceive  how  fleeting  are  all  the  joys  of  this  transitory  life;  they  are 
but  an  imperfect  dream,  they  fade  like  a flower,  and  vanish  like  a shadow.  Oh,  ill-fated 
Montesinos ! oh,  Durandarte,  unfortunately  wounded  ! oh,  unhappy  Belerma  ! oh,  deplorable 
Guadiana  ! and  you  the  distressed  daughters  of  Ruydera,  whose  flowing  waters  show  what 
streams  of  tears  once  trickled  from  your  lovely  eyes!” 

These  expressions,  uttered  with  great  passion  and  concern,  surprised  the  scholar  and  Sancho, 
and  they  desired  to  know  his  meaning,  and  what  he  had  seen  in  that  dreadful  place. 


They  found  that  his  eyes  were  closed,  as  if  he  had  been  fast  asleep.” — -f>.  518. 


520 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Call  it  not  that,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ for  it  deserves  a better  name,  as  I shall  soon 
let  you  know.  But  first  give  me  something  to  eat,  for  I am  prodigiously  hungry.” 

They  then  spread  the  scholar’s  coarse  saddle-cloth  for  a carpet ; and  examining  their  old 
cupboard,  the  knapsack,  they  all  three  sat  down  on  the  grass,  and  ate  heartily  together,  like 
men  who  were  a meal  or  two  behind-hand.  When  they  had  done,  “ Let  no  man  stir.”  said 
Don  Quixote ; “ sit  still,  and  hear  me  with  attention.” 


HP  IS  AfJ 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

OF  THE  WONDERFUL  THINGS  WHICH  THE  UNPARALLELED  DON  QUIXOTE  DECLARED  HE  HAD  SEEN  IN 
THE  DEEP  CAVE  OF  MONTESINOS,  THE  GREATNESS  AND  IMPOSSIBILITY  OF  WHICH  MAKES  THIS 
ADVENTURE  PASS  FOR  APOCRYPHAL. 

IT  was  now  past  four  in  the  afternoon,  and  the  sun  was  opportunely  hid  behind  the  clouds, 
which,  interposing  between  his  rays,  invited  Don  Quixote,  without  heat  or  trouble,  to 
relate  to  his  illustrious  auditors  the  wonders  he  had  seen  in  the  cave,  of  Montesinos. 

“ About  twelve  or  fourteen  men’s  depth,”  said  he,  “ in  the  profundity  of  this  cavern,  on 
the  right  hand  there  is  a concavity  wide  enough  to  contain  a large  wagon,  mules  and  all.  This 
place  is  not  wholly  dark,  for  through  some  chinks  and  narrow  holes,  that  reach  to  the  distant 
surface  of  the  earth,  there  comes  a glimmering  light.  I discovered  this  recess,  being  already 
weary  of  hanging  by  the  loins,  discouraged  by  the  profound  darkness  of  the  region  below  me, 
destitute  of  a guide,  and  not  knowing  whither  I went  : resolving  therefore  to  rest  myself  there 
a while,  I called  to  you  to  give  me  no  more  rope,  but  it  seems  you  did  not  hear  me.  I there- 
fore entered,  and  coiling  up  the  cord,  sat  upon  it  very  melancholy,  and  thinking  how  I should 
most  conveniently  get  down  to  the  bottom,  having  nobody  to  guide  or  support  me.  While 
thus  I sat  pensive  and  lost  in  thought,  insensibly,  without  any  previous  drowsiness,  I found 
myself  surprised  by  sleep ; and  after  that,  not  knowing  how  nor  which  way  I wakened.  I 
unexpectedly  found  myself  in  the  finest,  the  sweetest,  and  most  delightful  meadow  that  ever 


60 


522 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Nature  adorned  with  her  beauties,  or  the  most  inventive  fancy  could  ever  imagine.  Now,  that 
I might  be  sure  this  was  neither  a dream  nor  an  illusion,  I rubbed  my  eyes,  felt  several  parts 
of  my  body,  and  convinced  myself  that  I was  really  awake,  with  the  use  of  all  my  senses,  and 
all  the  faculties  of  my  understanding  sound  and  active  as  at  this  moment. 

“ Presently  I discovered  a royal  and  sumptuous  palace,  of  which  the  walls  and  battlements 
seemed  all  of  clear  and  transparent  crystal.  At  the  same  time,  the  spacious  gates  opening, 
there  came  out  towards  me  a venerable  old  man,  clad  in  a sad-coloured  robe,  so  long  that  it 
swept  the  ground  ; on  his  breast  and  shoulders  he  had  a green  satin  tippet  after  the  manner 
of  those  worn  in  colleges.  On  his  head  he  wore  a black  Milan  cap,  and  his  broad  hoary  beard 
reached  down  below  his  middle.  He  had  no  kind  of  weapon  in  his  hands,  but  a rosary  of 
beads  about  the  bigness  of  walnuts,  and  his  credo  beads  appeared  as  large  as  ordinary  ostrich- 
eggs.  The  awful  and  grave  aspect,  the  pace,  the  port  and  goodly  presence  of  this  old  man, 
each  of  them  apart,  and  much  more  all  together,  struck  me  with  veneration  and  astonishment. 
He  came  up  to  me,  and,  without  any  previous  ceremony,  embracing  me  close,  ‘It  is  a long 
time,’  said  he,  ‘ most  renowned  knight,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  that  we  who  dwell  in  this 
enchanted  solitude  have  hoped  to  see  you  here ; that  you  may  inform  the  upper  world  of  the 
surprising  prodigies  concealed  from  human  knowledge  in  this  subterranean  hollow,  called  the 
cave  of  Montesinos  : an  enterprise  reserved  alone  for  your  insuperable  heart,  and  stupendous 
resolution.  Go  with  me,  then,  thou  most  illustrious  knight,  and  behold  the  wonders  enclosed 
within  the  transparent  castle,  of  which  I am  the  perpetual  governor  and  chief  warden,  being 
the  same  individual  Montesinos,  from  whom  this  cavern  took  its  name.’ 

“No  sooner  had  the  reverend  old  man  let  me  know  who  he  was,  but  I entreated  him  to 
tell  me  whether  it  was  true  or  no  that,  at  his  friend  Durandarte’s  dying  request,  he  had 
taken  out  his  heart  with  a small  dagger  the  very  moment  he  expired,  and  carried  it  to  his 
mistress  Belerma,  as  the  story  was  current  in  the  world.  ‘ It  is  literally  true,’  answered  the 
old  gentleman,  ‘ except  that  single  circumstance  of  the  dagger ; for  I used  neither  a small  nor 
a large  dagger  on  this  occasion,  but  a well-polished  poniard,  as  sharp  as  an  awl.’” 

“ I will  be  hanged,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ if  it  was  not  one  of  your  Seville  poniards,  of  Raymond 
de  Hoze’s  making.” 

“ That  cannot  be,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ for  that  cutler  lived  but  the  other  day,  and  the 
battle  of  Roncesvalles,  where  this  accident  happened,  was  fought  many  ages  ago ; but  this  is 
of  no  importance  to  the  story.” 

“You  are  in  the  right,  sir,”  said  the  student,  “and  pray  go  on,  for  I hearken  to  your 
relation  with  the  greatest  satisfaction  imaginable.” 

“ That,  sir,”  said  the  knight,  “ increases  my  pleasure  in  telling  it.  But  to  proceed  : the 
venerable  Montesinos,  having  conducted  me  into  the  crystal  palace,  led  me  into  a spacious 
ground-room,  exceeding  cool,  and  all  of  alabaster.  In  the  middle  of  it  stood  a stately  marble 
tomb,  that  seemed  a masterpiece  of  art,  upon  which  lay  a knight  extended  all  at  length,  not 


The  venerable  Montesinos  fell  on  his  knees  before  the  afflicted  knight.’ 


524 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


of  stone  or  brass,  as  on  other  monuments,  but  pure  flesh  and  bones.  He  covered  the  region 
of  his  heart  with  his  right  hand,  which  seemed  to  me  somewhat  hairy  and  very  full  of  sinews 
— a sign  of  the  great  strength  of  the  body  to  which  it  belonged.  Montesinos,  observing  that 
I viewed  this  spectacle  with  surprise,  ‘ Behold,'  said  he,  ‘ the  flower  and  mirror  of  all  the 
amorous  and  valiant  knights  of  his  age,  my  friend  Durandarte,  who,  together  with  me  and 

many  others  of  both  sexes,  are  kept  here  enchanted  by  Merlin,  that  British  magician,  who,  they 

say,  was  the  son  of  the  devil,  though  I cannot  believe  it ; only  his  knowledge  was  so  great, 
that  he  might  be  said  to  know  more  than  the  devil.  Here,  I say,  we  are  enchanted,  but  how 
and  for  what  cause  no  man  can  tell,  though  time,  I hope,  will  shortly  reveal  it.  But  the  most 

wonderful  part  of  my  fortune  is  this  : I am  as  certain  as  that  the  sun  now  shines,  that 

Durandarte  died  in  my  arms,  and  that  with  these  hands  I took  out  his  heart,  by  the  same 
token  that  it  weighed  above  two  pounds — a sure  mark  of  his  courage ; for,  by  the  rules  of 
natural  philosophy,  the  most  valiant  men  have  still  the  biggest  hearts.  Nevertheless,  though 

this  knight  really  died,  he  still  complains  and  sighs  sometimes  as  if  he  were  alive.’ 

“ Scarce  had  Montesinos  spoke  these  words,  but  the  miserable  Durandarte  cried  out  aloud, 

‘ Oh,  cousin  Montesinos  ! the  last  and  dying  request  of  your  departing  friend  was  to  take  my 
heart  out  of  my  breast  with  a poniard  or  a dagger,  and  carry  it  to  Belerma.’  The  venerable 
Montesinos,  hearing  this,  fell  on  his  knees  before  the  afflicted  knight,  and  with  tears  in  his 
eyes,  ‘ Long,  long  ago,’  said  he,  ‘ Durandarte,  thou  dearest  of  my  kinsmen,  have  I performed 
what  you  enjoined  me  on  that  bitter,  fatal  day  when  you  expired.  I took  out  your  heart  with 

all  imaginable  care,  not  leaving  the  least  particle  of  it  in  your  breast ; I gently  wiped  it  with 

a laced  handkerchief,  and  posted  away  with  it  to  France,  as  soon  as  I had  committed  your 
dear  remains  to  the  bosom  of  the  earth,  having  shed  tears  enough  to  have  washed  my  hands 
clear  of  the  blood  they  had  gathered  by  plunging  in  your  entrails.  To  confirm  this  truth  yet 
farther,  at  the  first  place  where  I stopped  from  Roncesvalles,  I laid  a little  salt  upon  your 
heart,  to  preserve  it  from  putrefaction,  and  keep  it,  if  not  fresh,  at  least  free  from  any  ill  smell, 
till  I presented  it  into  the  hands  of  Belerma,  who,  with  you  and  me,  and  Guadiana  your  squire, 
as  also  Ruydera  (the  lady’s  woman)  with  her  seven  daughters,  her  two  nieces,  and  many  others 
of  your  friends  and  acquaintance,  is  here  confined  by  the  necromantic  charms  of  the  magician 
Merlin ; and  though  it  be  now  above  five  hundred  years  since  we  were  first  conveyed  Imo 
this  enchanted  castle,  we  are  still  alive,  except  Ruydera,  her  daughters,  and  nieces,  who,  by  the 
favour  of  Merlin  that  pitied  their  tears,  were  turned  into  so  many  lakes,  still  extant  in  the  world 
of  the  living,  and  in  the  province  of  La  Mancha,  distinguished  by  the  name  of  the  Lakes  of 
Ruydera ; seven  of  them  belonged  to  the  kings  of  Spain,  and  the  two  nieces  to  the  Knights  of 
the  Most  Holy  Order  of  St.  John.  Your  squire  Guadiana,  lamenting  his  hard  fate,  was  in  like 
manner  metamorphosed  into  a river  that  bears  his  name,  yet  still  so  sensible  of  your  disaster, 
that  when  he  first  arose  out  of  the  bowels  of  the  earth  to  flow  along  its  surface,  and  saw  the 
sun  in  a strange  hemisphere,  he  plunged  again  under  ground,  striving  to  hide  his  melting 


“1  saw  a mournful  procession  of  most  beautiful  damsels,  all  in  black.”— f.  526. 


526 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


sorrows  from  the  world ; but  the  natural  current  of  his  waters  forcing  a passage  up  again,  he 
is  compelled  to  appear  where  the  sun  and  mortals  may  see  him.  Those  lakes  mixing  their 
waters  in  his  bosom,  he  swells,  and  glides  along  in  sullen  state  to  Portugal,  often  expressing 
his  deep  melancholy  by  the  muddy  and  turbid  colour  of  his  streams,  which,  as  they  refuse  to 
please  the  sight,  so  likewise  deny  to  indulge  mortal  appetite  by  breeding  such  fair  and  savoury 
fish  as  may  be  found  in  the  golden  Tagus.  All  this  I have  often  told  you,  my  dearest 
Durandarte ; and  since  you  return  me  no  answer,  I must  conclude  you  believe  me  not,  or  that 
you  do  not  hear  me,  for  which  (witness  it,  Heaven  !)  I am  extremely  grieved.  But  now  I have 
other  news  to  tell  ye,  which,  though  perhaps  it  may  not  assuage  your  sorrows,  yet,  I am  sure, 
it  will  not  increase  them.  Open  your  eyes,  and  behold  in  your  presence  that  mighty  knight  of 
whom  Merlin  the  sage  has  foretold  so  many  wonders — that  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  I mean, 
who  has  not  only  restored  to  the  world  the  function  of  knight-errantry  that  has  lain  so  long  in 
oblivion,  but  advanced  it  to  greater  fame  than  it  could  boast  in  former  ages,  the  nonage  of  the 
world.  It  is  by  his  power  we  may  expect  to  see  the  fatal  charm  dissolved  that  keeps  us  here 
confined ; for  great  performances  are  properly  reserved  for  great  personages.’  ‘ And  should  it 
not  be  so  ? ’ answered  the  grieving  Durandarte,  with  a faint  and  languishing  voice.  ‘ Should  it 
not  be  so,  I say  ? Oh,  cousin  ! patience,  and  shuffle  the  cards.’  Then  turning  on  one  side, 
without  speaking  a word  more,  he  relapsed  into  his  usual  silence. 

“ After  this  I was  alarmed  with  piteous  howling  and  crying,  which,  mixed  with  lamentable 
sighs  and  groans,  obliged  me  to  turn  about,  to  see  whence  it  proceeded.  Then  through  the 
crystal  wall  I saw  a mournful  procession  of  most  beautiful  damsels,  all  in  black,  marching  in 
two  ranks,  with  turbans  on  their  heads  after  the  Turkish  fashion ; and  last  of  all  came  a 
majestic  lady,  dressed  also  in  mourning,  with  a long  white  veil,  that  reached  from  her  head 
down  to  the  ground.  Her  turban  was  twice  as  big  as  the  biggest  of  the  rest;  she  was  some- 
what beetle-browed,  her  nose  was  flattish,  her  mouth  wide,  but  her  lips  red  ; her  teeth,  which 
she  sometimes  discovered,  seemed  to  be  thin  and  snaggy,  but  indeed  as  white  as  blanched 
almonds.  She  held  a fine  handkerchief,  and  within  it  I could  perceive  a heart  of  flesh,  so  dry 
and  withered,  that  it  looked  like  mummy.  Montesinos  informed  me  that  the  procession 
consisted  of  Durandarte’s  and  Belerma’s  servants,  who  were  enchanted  there  with  their 
master  and  mistress : but  that  the  last  was  Belerma  herself,  who,  with  her  attendants,  used 
four  days  in  the  week  constantly  thus  to  sing,  or  rather  howl  their  dirges  over  the  heart 
and  body  of  his  cousin  ; and  that  though  Belerma  appeared  a little  haggard  at  that  juncture, 
occasioned  by  the  grief  she  bore  in  her  own  heart  for  that  which  she  carried  in  her  hand, 
yet  had  I seen  her  before  her  misfortunes  had  sunk  her  eyes  and  tarnished  her  complexion, 
I must  have  owned  that  even  the  celebrated  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  herself,  so  famous  in  La 
Mancha,  and  over  the  whole  universe,  could  scarce  have  vied  with  her  in  gracefulness  and 
beauty. 

“‘Hold  there,  good  Signior  Don  Montesinos,’  said  I.  ‘You  know  that  comparisons  are 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


527 


odious,  therefore  no  more  comparing,  I beseech  you  ; but  go  on  with  your  story.  The  peerless 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso  is  what  she  is,  and  the  lady  Belerma  is  what  she  is,  and  has  been  : so 
no  more  upon  that  subject.’  ‘ I beg  your  pardon,’  answered  Montesinos,  ‘ Signior  Don 
Quixote  : I might  have  guessed  indeed  that  you  were  the  Lady  Dulcinea’s  knight,  and 
therefore  I ought  to  have  bit  my  tongue  off,  sooner  than  to  have  compared  her  to 
anything  lower  than  heaven  itself.’  This  satisfaction,  which  I thought  sufficient  from  the  great 
Montesinos,  stifled  the  resentment  I else  had  shown,  for  hearing  my  mistress  compared  to 
Belerma.” 

“ Nay,  marry,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I wonder  you  did  not  catch  the  old  doating  hunks  by  the 
weasand,  and  maul  and  thresh  him  thick  and  three-fold!  How  could  you  leave  one  hair  on 
his  chin  ?” 

“ No,  no,  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “there  is  always  a respect  due  to  our  seniors, 
though  they  be  no  knights  ; but  most  when  they  are  such,  and  under  the  impression  of 
enchantment.  However,  I am  satisfied  that  in  what  discourse  passed  between  us  I took  care 
not  to  have  anything  that  looked  like  an  affront  fixed  upon  me.” 

“ But,  sir,”  asked  the  scholar,  “ how  could  you  see  and  hear  so  many  strange  things  in 
so  little  time  ? I cannot  conceive  how  you  could  do  it.” 

“ How  long,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ do  you  reckon  that  I have  been  in  the  cave  ?” 

“ A little  above  an  hour,”  answered  Sancho. 

“ That  is  impossible,’’  said  Don  Quixote,  “ for  I saw  morning  and  evening,  and  evening 
and  morning,  three  times  since  ; so  that  I could  not  be  absent  less  than  three  days  from  this 
upper  world.” 

“ Ay,  ay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ my  master  is  in  the  right ; for  these  enchantments,  that  have 
the  greatest  share  in  all  his  concerns,  may  make  that  seem  three  days  and  three  nights  to  him 
which  is  but  an  hour  to  other  people.” 

“It  must  be  so,”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“ I hope,  sir,”  said  the  scholar,  “ you  have  eaten  something  in  all  that  time.” 

“ Not  one  morsel,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ neither  have  had  the  least  desire  to  eat,  or  so 
much  as  thought  of  it  all  the  while.” 

“Do  not  they  that  are  enchanted  sometimes  eat?”  asked  the  scholar. 

“ They  never  do,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ though  it  is  not  unlikely  that  their  nails,  their 
beards,  and  hair  still  grow.” 

“Do  they  never  sleep  neither?”  said  Sancho. 

“Never,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “at  least,  they  never  closed  their  eyes  while  I was  among 
them,  nor  I neither.” 

“This  makes  good  the  saying,”  quoth  Sancho,  “‘Tell  me  thy  company,  and  I will  tell 
thee  what  thou  art.’  Troth!  you  have  all  been  enchanted  together.  No  wonder  if  you 
neither  eat  nor  slept,  since  you  were  in  the  land  of  those  that  always  watch  and  fast.  Bui 


-0g  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

sir,  would  you  have  me  speak  as  I think  ? and  pray  do  not  take  it  in  ill  part,  for  if  I believe 

one  word  of  all  you  have  said ” 

“What  do  you  mean,  friend?”  said  the  student.  “Do  you  think  the  noble  Don  Quixote 
would  be  guilty  of  a lie  ? and  if  he  had  a mind  to  stretch  a little,  could  he,  think  you,  have 
had  leisure  to  frame  such  a number  of  stories  in  so  short  a time  ?” 

“ I do  not  think  that  my  master  would  lie  neither,”  said  Sancho. 

“What  do  ye  think  then,  sir?”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“ Why  truly,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I do  believe  that  this  same  cunning  man,  this  Merlin, 
that  bewitched,  or  enchanted,  as  you  call  it,  all  that  rabble  of  people  you  talk  of,  may  have 
crammed  and  enchanted  into  your  noddle,  some  way  or  other,  all  that  you  have  told  us,  and 
have  yet  to  tell  us.” 

“It  is  not  impossible  but  such  a thing  may  happen,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “though  I am 

convinced  it  was  otherwise  with  me  ; for  I am  positive  that  I saw  with  these  eyes,  and  felt 

with  these  hands,  all  I have  mentioned.  But  what  will  you  think  when  I tell  you,  among 
many  wonderful  things,  that  I saw  three  country  wenches,  leaping  and  skipping  about  those 

pleasant  fields  like  so  many  wild  goats ; and  at  first  sight  knew  one  of  them  to  be  the  peerless 

Dulcinea,  and  the  other  two  the  very  same  we  spoke  to  not  far  from  Toboso  ? I asked  Montesinos 
if  he  knew  them.  He  answered  in  the  negative ; but  imagined  them  some  enchanted  ladies, 
wfyo  were  newly  come,  and  that  the  appearance  of  strange  faces  was  no  rarity  among  them, 
for  many  of  the  past  ages  and  the  present  were  enchanted  there,  under  several  disguises  ; and 
that,  among  the  rest,  he  knew  Queen  Guinever  and  her  woman  Quintaniona,  that  officiated  as 
Sir  Lancelot’s  cup-bearer,  as  he  came  from  Britain.” 

Sancho,  hearing  his  master  talk  at  this  rate,  had  like  to  have  forgot  himself,  and  burst 
out  a-laughing  ; for  he  well  knew  that  Dulcinea’s  enchantment  was  a lie,  and  that  he  himself 
was  the  chief  magician,  and  raiser  of  the  story ; and  thence,  concluding  his  master  stark  mad, 
“ In  an  ill  hour,”  quoth  he,  “ dear  master  of  mine,  and  in  a woful  day,  went  your  worship 
down  to  the  other  world  ; and  in  a worse  hour  met  you  with  that  plaguy  Montesinos,  that 

has  sent  you  back  in  this  rueful  pickle.  You  went  hence  in  your  right  senses ; could  talk 

prettily  enough  now  and  then ; had  your  handsome  proverbs  and  wise  sayings  every  foot, 
and  would  give  wholesome  counsel  to  all  that  would  take  it ; but  now,  bless  me ! you  talk  as 
if  you  had  left  your  brains  in  the  cave.” 

“ I know  thee,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  therefore  I regard  thy  words  as  little 
as  possible.” 

“ And  I yours,”  replied  Sancho  : “ nay,  you  may  cripple,  lame,  or  kill  me,  if  you  please, 
either  for  what  I have  said  or  mean  to  say  ; I must  speak  my  mind,  though  I die  for  it.  But 
before  your  blood  is  up,  pray,  sir,  tell  me  how  did  you  know  it  was  your  mistress  ? Did  you 
speak  to  her  ? What  did  she  say  to  you  ? and  what  did  you  say  to  her  ?” 

“ I knew  her  again,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ by  the  same  clothes  she  wore  when  thou  showedst 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANLHA. 


529 


her  to  me,  I spoke  to  her ; but  she  made  no  answer,  but  suddenly  turned  away,  and  fled 
from  me  like  a whirlwind.  I intended  to  have  followed  her,  had  not  Montesinos  told  me  it 

would  be  to  no  purpose ; warning  me,  besides,  that  it  was  high  time  to  return  to  the  upper  air  ; 

and,  changing  the  discourse,  he  told  me  that  I should  hereafter  be  made  acquainted  with  the 
means  of  disenchanting  them  all.  But  while  Montesinos  and  I were  thus  talking  together, 
a very  odd  accident,  the  thoughts  of  which  trouble  me  still,  broke  off  our  conversation.  For, 
as  we  were  in  the  height  of  our  discourse,  who  should  come  to  me  but  one  of  the  unfortunate 
Dulcinea’s  companions,  and,  before  I was  aware,  with  a faint  and  doleful  voice,  ‘ Sir,  said  she, 
‘my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  gives  her  service  to  vou,  and  desires  to  know  how  you  do; 
and,  being  a little  short  of  money  at  present,  she  desires  you,  of  all  love  and  kindness,  to 
lend  her  six  reals  upon  this  new  fustian  petticoat,  or  more  or  less,  as  you  can  spare  it,  sir, 
and  she  will  take  care  to  redeem  it  very  honestly  in  a little  time.’ 

“ The  message  surprised  me  strangely  ; and  therefore,  turning  to  Montesinos,  ‘ Is  it  possible, 
sir,’  said  I,  ‘that  persons  of  quality,  when  enchanted,  are  in  want?’  ‘Oh!  very  possible,  sir,’ 

said  he ; ‘ poverty  rages  everywhere,  and  spares  neither  quality  enchanted  nor  unenchanted  ; 

and  therefore,  since  the  Lady  Dulcinea  desires  you  to  lend  her  these  six  reals,  and  the  pawn 
is  a good  pawn,  let  her  have  the  money ; for  sure  it  is  very  low  with  her  at  this  time.’  ‘ I scorn 
to  take  pawns,’  said  I ; ‘ but  my  misfortune  is,  that  I cannot  answer  the  full  request ; for  I 
have  but  four  reals  about  me  ;’  and  that  was  the  money  thou  gavest  me  the  other  day,  Sancho, 
to  distribute  among  the  poor.  However,  I gave  her  all  I had,  and  desired  her  to  tell  her 

mistress  I was  very  sorry  for  her  wants  ; and  that  if  I had  all  the  treasures  which  Croesus 

possessed,  they  should  be  at  her  service ; and  withal,  that  I died  every  hour  for  want  of  her 
reviving  company  ; and  made  it  my  humble  and  earnest  request,  that  she  would  vouchsafe 
to  see  and  converse  with  her  captive  servant,  and  weather-beaten  knight.  ‘Tell  her,’  con- 
tinued I,  ‘when  she  leasts  expects  it,  she  will  come  to  hear  how  I made  an  oath,  as  the 

Marquis  of  Mantua  did,  when  he  found  his  nephew  Baldwin  ready  to  expire  on  the  mountain, 
never  to  eat  upon  a table-cloth,  and  several  other  particulars,  which  he  swore  to  observe,  till 
he  had  revenged  his  death  ; so,  in  the  like  solemn  manner  will  I swear  never  to  desist  from 
traversing  the  habitable  globe,  and  ranging  through  all  the  seven  parts  of  the  world,  more 
indefatigably  than  ever  was  done  by  Prince  Pedro  of  Portugal,  till  I have  freed  her  from  her 
enchantment.’  ‘ All  this  and  more  you  owe  my  mistress,’  said  the  damsel ; and  then,  having 
got  the  four  reals,  instead  of  dropping  me  a curtsey,  she  cut  me  a caper  in  the  air  two  yards 
high.” 

“Now,  Heaven  defend  us!”  cried  Sancho.  “Who  could  ever  have  believed  that  these 
enchanters  and  enchantments  should  have  so  much  power  as  to  bewitch  my  master  at  this 
rate,  and  craze  his  sound  understanding  in  this  manner  ? Alas ! sir,  for  the  love  of  Heaven, 
take  care  of  yourself.  What  will  the  world  say  of  you  ? Rouse  up  your  dozing  senses,  and  do 

not  dote  upon  those  whimsies  that  have  so  wretchediy  cracked  that  rare  headpiece  of  yours.” 

67 


530 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Well  ” said  Don  Quixote,  “ 1 cannot  be  angry  at  thy  ignorant  tittle-tattle,  becuase  it 
proceeds  from  thy  love  towards  me.  Thou  thinkest,  poor  fellow!  that  whatever  is  beyond  the 
sphere  of  thy  narrow  comprehension  must  be  impossible;  but,  as  I have  already  said,  there 
will  come  a time  when  I shall  give  thee  an  account  of  some  things  I have  seen  below,  that 
will  convince  thee  of  the  reality  of  those  1 told  thee  now,  the  truth  of  which  adm.ts  of  no 

dispute.” 


L. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

WHICH  GIVES  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  A THOUSAND  FLIMFLAMS  AND  STORIES,  AS  IMPERTINENT  AS  NECESSARV 
TO  THE  RIGHT  UNDERSTANDING  OF  THIS  GRAND  HISTORY. 

THE  translator  of  this  famous  history  declares  that,  at  the  beginning  of  the  chapter 
which  treats  of  the  adventure  of  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  he  found  a marginal 

annotation,  written  with  the  Arabian  author  s own  hand,  in  these  words  : 

I cannot  be  persuaded,  nor  believe,  that  all  the  wonderful  accidents  said  to  have  happened 
to  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  in  the  cave,  so  punctually  befell  him  as  he  relates  them  ; for 
the  course  of  his  adventures  hitherto  has  been  very  natural,  and  bore  the  face  of  probability, 
but  in  this  there  appears  no  coherence  with  reason,  and  nothing  but  monstrous  incongruities. 
But,  on  the  other  hand,  if  we  consider  the  honour,  worth,  and  integrity  of  the  noble  Don 
Quixote,  we  have  not  the  least  reason  to  suspect  he  would  be  guilty  of  a lie,  but  rather  that 
he  would  sooner  have  been  transfixed  with  arrows.  Besides,  he  has  been  so  particular  in  his 
relation  of  that  adventure,  and  given  so  many  circumstances,  that  I dare  not  declare  it 
absolutely  apocryphal ; especially  when  I consider  that  he  had  not  time  enough  to  invent  such 
a cluster  of  fables.  I therefore  insert  it  among  the  rest,  without  offering  to  determine  whether 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


532 

it  is  true  or  false,  leaving  it  to  the  discretion  of  the  judicious  reader  ; though  I must  acquaint 
him,  by  the  way,  that  Don  Quixote,  upon  his  death-bed,  utterly  disowned  this  adventure,  as  a 
perfect  fable,  which,  he  said,  he  had  invented  purely  to  please  his  humour,  being  suitable  to 
such  as  he  had  formerly  read  in  romances.”  And  so  much  by  way  of  digression. 

The  scholar  thought  Sancho  the  most  saucy  servant,  and  his  master  the  calmest  madman, 
that  ever  he  saw,  though  he  attributed  the  patience  of  the  latter  to  a certain  good  humour 
and  easiness  of  temper,  infused  into  him  by  the  sight  of  his  mistress  Dulcinea,  even  under 
enchantment;  otherwise  he  would  have  thought  his  not  checking  Sancho  a greater  sign  of 
madness  than  his  discourse.  “Noble  Don  Quixote,”  said  he,  “for  four  principal  reasons  I am 
extremely  pleased  with  having  taken  this  journey  with  you.  First,  it  has  procured  me  the 
honour  of  your  acquaintance,  which  I shall  always  esteem  a singular  happiness.  In  the  second 
place,  sir,  the  secrets  of  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  and  the  transformations  of  Guadiana  and 
Ruydera’s  lakes  have  been  revealed  to  me,  which  may  look  very  great  in  my  Spanish  Ovid. 
My  third  advantage  is,  to  have  discovered  the  antiquity  of  card-playing,  which  I find  to  have 
been  a pastime  in  use  even  in  the  Emperor  Charles  the  Great’s  time  as  may  be  collected 
from  the  words  of  Durandarte,  who,  after  a long  speech  of  Montesinos,  said,  as  he  waked, 

' Patience,  and  shuffle  the  cards,’  which  vulgar  expression  he  could  never  have  learned  in  his 
enchantment.  It  follows,  therefore,  that  he  must  have  heard  it  when  he  lived  in  France,  which 
was  in  the  reign  of  that  emperor ; which  observation  is  nicked,  I think,  very  opportunely . for 
my  supplement  to  Polydore  Virgil,  who,  as  I remember,  has  not  touched  upon  card-playing. 
The  fourth  part  of  my  good  fortune  is  to  know  the  certain  and  true  source  of  the  river 

Guadiana,  which  has  hitherto  disappointed  all  human  inquiries. 

“ There  is  a great  deal  of  reason  in  what  you  say,  answered  Don  Quixote , but,  under 
favour,  sir,  pray  tell  me,  should  you  happen  to  get  a licence  to  publish  your  book,  which  I 

somewhat  doubt,  whom  will  you  pitch  upon  for  your  patron  ? 

“Oh,  sir,”  answered  the  author  “there  are  grandees  enough  in  Spain,  sure,  that  I may 

dedicate  to.” 

"Truly,  not  many,”  said  Don  Quixote;  "there  are,  indeed,  several  whose  merits  deserve 
the  praise  of  a dedication,  but  very  few  whose  generosity  will  reward  the  pains  and  civility  of 
the  author.  I must  confess,  I know  a prince  whose  generosity  may  make  amends  for  what  is 
wanting  in  the  rest,  and  that  to  such  a degree,  that,  should  I make  bold  to  come  to  particulars, 
and  speak  of  his  great  merits,  it  would  be  enough  to  stir  up  a noble  emulation  in  above 
four  generous  breasts  ; but  more  of  this  some  other  time-it  is  late  now,  and  therefore  convenient 

to  think  of  a lodging.” 

“Hard  by  us  here,  sir,”  said  the  author,  “ is  a hermitage,  the  retirement  of  a devout  person, 
who,  as  they  say,  was  once  a soldier,  and  is  looked  upon  as  a good  Christian,  and  so  charitable, 
that  he  has  built  there  a little  house  at  his  own  expense,  purely  for  the  entertainment  of 

strangers.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA, 


533 


“ But  does  he  keep  hens  there,  trow  ? ” asked  Sancho. 

“ Few  hermits  in  this  age  are  without  them,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ for  their  way  of  living 
now  falls  short  of  the  strictness  and  austerity  of  those  in  the  deserts  of  Egypt,  who  went 
clad  only  with  palm-leaves,  and  fed  on  the  roots  of  the  earth.  Now,  because  I speak  well 
of  those  of  old,  I would  not  have  you  think  I reflect  on  the  others.  No,  I only  mean  that 
their  penances  are  not  so  severe  as  in  former  days  ; yet  this  does  not  hinder  but  that  the 
hermits  of  the  present  age  may  be  good  men.  I look  upon  them  to  be  such  ; at  least  their 
dissimulation  secures  them  from  scandal  ; and  the  hypocrite  that  puts  on  the  form  of  holiness 
does  certainly  less  harm  than  the  barefaced  sinner.” 

As  they  went  on  in  their  discourse,  they  saw  a man  following  them  at  a great  pace  on  foot, 
and  switching  up  a mule  laden  with  lances  and  halberts.  He  presently  overtook  them,  gave 
them  the  time  of  the  day,  and  passed  by. 

“ Stay,  honest  fellow  ! ” cried  Don  Quixote,  seeing  him  go  so  fast,  “ make  no  more  haste 
than  is  consistent  with  good  speed.’’ 

“ I cannot  stay,  sir,”  said  the  man ; “ for  these  weapons  that  you  see  must  be  used  to- 
morrow morning ; so,  sir,  I am  in  haste — good  bye — I shall  lodge  to-night  at  the  inn  beyond 

the  hermitage  ; if  you  chance  to  go  that  way,  there  you  may  find  me,  and  I will  tell  you  strange 

news  ; so,  fare  ye  well.”  Then,  whipping  his  mule,  away  he  moved  forwards;  so  fast,  that  Don 
Quixote  had  not  leisure  to  ask  him  any  more  questions. 

The  knight,  who  had  always  an  itching  ear  after  novelties,  to  satisfy  his  curiosity,  immediately 
proposed  their  holding  straight  on  to  the  inn,  without  stopping  at  the  hermitage,  where  the 
scholar  designed  to  have  stayed  all  night.  Well,  they  all  consented,  and  made  the  best  of 
their  way ; however,  when  they  came  near  the  hermitage,  the  scholar  desired  Don  Quixote  to 
call  with  him  for  a moment,  and  drink  a glass  of  wine  at  the  door.  Sancho  no  sooner  heard 
this  proposed,  but  he  turned  Dapple  that  way,  and  rode  thither  before ; but,  to  his  grief,  the 
hospitable  hermit  was  abroad,  and  nobody  at  home  but  the  hermit’s  companion,  who,  being 

asked  whether  he  had  any  liquor  within,  made  answer  that  he  could  not  come  at  any,  but  as 

for  water,  he  might  have  plenty. 

“ Bless  me ! ” quoth  Sancho,  “ were  mine  a water-thirst,  or  had  I a liking  to  your  cold 
comfort,  there  are  wells  enough  upon  the  road  where  I might  have  taken  my  fill.  Oh,  the 
good  cheer  of  Don  Diego’s  house,  and  the  savoury  scum  at  Camacho’s  wedding ! when  shall  I 
find  your  fellow  ?” 

They  now  spurred  on  towards  the  inn,  and  soon  overtook  on  the  road  a young  fellow, 
beating  it  on  the  hoof  pretty  leisurely.  He  carried  his  sword  over  his  shoulder,  with  a 
bundle  of  clothes  hanging  upon  it,  which,  to  all  outward  appearance,  consisted  of  a pair  of 
breeches,  a cloak,  and  a shirt  or  two.  He  had  on  a tattered  velvet  jerkin,  with  a ragged 
satin  lining,  and  his  shirt  hung  out.  His  stockings  were  of  silk,  and  his  shoes  square  at  the  toes, 
after  the  court  fashion.  He  seemed  about  eighteen  or  nineteen  years  of  age,  a good,  pleasant- 


534 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


looking  lad,  and  of  a lively  and  active  disposition.  To  pass  the  fatigue  of  his  journey  the  best 
he  could,  he  sung  all  the  way ; and,  as  they  came  near  him,  was  just  ending  the  last  words 
of  a ballad,  which  the  scholar  got  by  heart,  and  were  these  : — 

“A  plague  on  ill  luck!  now  my  ready’s  all  gone, 

To  the  wars  poor  pilgarlick  must  trudge  ; 

Though  had  I but  money  to  rake  as  I’ve  done, 

The  devil  a foot  would  I budge.” 

“So,  young  gentleman,”  said  Don  Quixote  to  him,  “ methinks  you  go  very  light  and  airy. 
Whither  are  you  bound,  I pray  you,  if  a man  may  be  so  bold  ?” 

“ I am  going  to  the  wars,  sir  ; and  for  my  travelling  thus,  heat  and  poverty  will  excuse  it.” 

“I  admit  the  heat,”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “but  why  poverty,  I beseech  you?” 

“ Because  I have  no  clothes  to  put  on  but  what  I carry  in  this  bundle  ; and  if  I should 
wear  them  out  upon  the  road,  I should  have  nothing  to  make  a handsome  figure  with  in  any 
town  ; for  I have  no  money  to  buy  new  ones  till  I overtake  a regiment  of  foot  that  lies  some 
twelve  leagues  off,  where  I design  to  enlist  myself,  and  then  I shall  not  want  a conveniency  to 
ride  with  the  baggage  till  we  come  to  Carthagena,  where,  I hear,  they  are  to  embark ; for  I 
had  rather  serve  the  king  abroad  than  any  beggarly  courtier  at  home.” 

“ But  pray,”  said  the  scholar,  “ have  not  you  laid  up  something  while  you  were  there  ?” 

“Had  I served  any  of  your  grandees,”  said  the  young  man,  “ I might  have  done  well  enough,, 
and  have  had  a commission  by  this  time  ; for  their  foot-boys  are  presently  advanced  to  captains, 
and  lieutenants,  or  some  other  good  post ; but,  sir,  it  was  always  my  ill  fortune  to  serve  pitiful 
upstarts  and  younger  brothers ; and  my  allowance  was  commonly  so  ill  paid  and  so  small,  that 
the  better  half  was  scarce  enough  to  wash  my  linen ; how  then  should  a poor  page  come  to- 
any  good  in  such  a miserable  service  ?” 

“ But,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ how  comes  it  about  that  in  all  this  time  you  could  not  get 
yourself  a whole  livery  ?” 

“ Alack-a-day,  sir,”  answered  the  lad,  “ I had  a couple ; but  my  masters  dealt  with  me  as 
they  do  with  novices  in  monasteries  ; if  they  go  off  before  they  profess,  the  fresh  habit  is  taken 
from  them,  and  they  return  them  their  own  clothes.  For  you  must  know  that  such  as  I 
served  only  buy  liveries  for  a little  ostentation;  so,  when  they  have  made  their  appearance  at 
court,  they  sneak  down  into  the  country,  and  then  the  poor  servants  are  stripped,  and  must 
even  betake  themselves  to  their  rags  again.” 

“A  sordid  trick!”  said  Don  Quixote.  “ However,  you  need  not  repine  at  leaving  the  court, 
since  you  do  it  with  so  good  a design  ; for  there  is  nothing  in  the  world  more  commendable  than 
to  serve  God  in  the  first  place,  and  the  king  in  the  next,  especially  in  the  profession  of  arms,  which, 
if  it  does  not  procure  a man  so  much  riches  as  learning,  may  at  least  entitle  him  to  more  honour. 
It  is  true  that  more  families  have  been  advanced  by  the  gown,  but  yet  your  gentlemen  of  the  sword, 
whatever  the  reason  of  it  is,  have  always  I know  not  what  advantage  above  the  men  of  learning  ; 
and  something  of  glory  and  splendour  attends  them  that  makes  them  outshine  the  rest  of  mankind. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


535 

But  take  my  advice  along  with  you,  child  ; if  you  intend  to  raise  yourself  by  military 

employment,  I would  not  have  you  be  uneasy  with  the  thoughts  of  what  misfortunes  may 
befall  you ; the  worst  can  be  but  to  die,  and  if  it  be  an  honourable  death,  your  fortune 

is  made,  and  you  are  certainly  happy.  Julius  Caesar,  that  valiant  Roman  emperor,  being 

asked  what  kind  of  death  was  best,  ‘ That  which  is  sudden  and  unexpected,’  said  he ; and 
though  his  answer  had  a relish  of  paganism,  yet,  with  respect  to  human  infirmities,  it  was  very 
judicious  ; for  suppose  you  should  be  cut  off  at  the  very  first  engagement  by  a cannon-ball, 
or  the  spring  of  a mine,  what  matters  it  ? it  is  all  but  dying,  and  there  is  an  end  of  the  business. 
As  Terence  says,  ‘a  soldier  makes  a better  figure  dead  in  the  field  of  battle,  than  alive  and 
safe  in  flight.’  The  more  likely  he  is  to  rise  in  fame  and  preferment,  the  better  discipline  he 
keeps  ; the  better  he  obeys,  the  better  he  will  know  how  to  command  : and  pray  observe,  my 
friend,  that  it  is  more  honourable  for  a soldier  to  smell  of  gunpowder  than  of  musk  and 

amber ; or  if  old  age  overtakes  you  in  this  noble  employment,  though  all  over  scars,  though 
maimed  and  lame,  you  will  still  have  honour  to  support  you  and  secure  you  from  the  contempt 
of  poverty,  nay,  from  poverty  itself,  for  there  is  care  taken  that  veterans  and  disabled  soldiers 
may  not  want ; neither  are  they  to  be  used  as  some  men  do  their  negro  slaves,  who,  when  they 
are  old  and  past  service,  are  turned  naked  out  of  doors,  under  pretence  of  freedom,  to  be  made 
greater  slaves  to  cold  and  hunger  ; a slavery  from  which  nothing  but  death  can  set  the  wretches 
free.  But  I will  say  no  more  to  you  on  this  subject  at  this  time.  Get  up  behind  me,  and 
I will  carry  you  to  the  inn,  where  you  shall  sup  with  me,  and  to-morrow  make  the  best  of 
your  way;  and  may  Heaven  prosper  your  good  designs!” 

The  page  excused  himself  from  riding  behind  the  knight,  but  accepted  of  his  invitation 
to  supper  very  willingly.  In  a short  time  they  arrived  at  the  inn,  where  Don  Quixote  alighting, 
asked  presently  for  the  man  with  the  lances  and  halberts. 


H. PISAN 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

WHERE  TOU  FIND  THE  GROUNDS  OF  THE  BRAYING  ADVENTURES,  THAT  OF  THE  PUPPET-PLAYER,  AND 

THE  MEMORABLE  DIVINING  OF  THE  FORTUNE-TELLING  APE. 

DON  QUIXOTE  was  on  thorns  to  know  the  strange  story  that  the  fellow  upon  the 
road  engaged  to  tell  him ; so  that,  going  into  the  stable,  he  reminded  him  of  his 
promise,  and  pressed  him  to  relate  the  whole  matter  to  him  that  moment. 

“ My  story  will  take  up  some  time,”  quoth  the  man,  “ and  is  not  to  be  told  standing  : 
have  a little  patience,  master  of  mine  ; let  me  make  an  end  of  serving  my  mule,  then  I will 
serve  your  worship,  and  tell  you  such  things  as  will  make  you  stare.” 

“ Do  not  let  that  hinder  you,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ for  I will  help  you  myself.” 

And  so  saying,  he  lent  him  a helping  hand,  cleansing  the  manger,  and  sifting  the  barley, 
which  humble  compliance  obliged  the  fellow  to  tell  his  tale  the  more  willingly ; so  that,  seating 
himself  upon  a bench,  with  Don  Quixote,  the  scholar,  the  page,  Sancho,  and  the  innkeeper 
about  him,  for  his  full  auditory,  he  began  in  this  manner : — 

“It  happened  on  a time,  that,  in  a borough  about  some  four  leagues  and  a half  from 
this  place,  one  of  the  aldermen  lost  his  ass.  They  say  it  was  by  the  roguery  of  a waggish 
jade  that  was  his  maid ; but  that  is  neither  here  nor  there — the  ass  was  lost  and  gone,  that 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


537 

is  certain  ; and  what  is  more,  it  could  not  be  found  neither  high  nor  low.  This  same  ass  had 
been  missing  about  a fortnight,  some  say  more,  some  less,  when  another  alderman  of  the 
same  town,  meeting  this  same  losing  alderman  in  the  market-place,  ‘ Brother,’  quoth  he,  ‘ pay 
me  well,  and  I will  tell  you  news  of  your  ass.’ 

:‘  ‘ Troth,’  replied  the  other,  ‘ that  I will ; but  then  let  me  know  where  the  poor  beast  is.’ 

“ ‘ Why,’  answered  the  other,  ‘ this  morning  what  should  I meet  upon  the  mountains 
yonder  but  he,  without  either  pack-saddle  or  furniture,  and  so  lean  that  it  grieved  my  heart 
to  see  him ; but  yet  so  wild  and  skittish,  that  when  I would  have  driven  him  home  before 
me,  he  ran  away  and  got  into  the  thickest  of  the  wood.  Now,  if  you  please,  we  will  both 

go  together  and  look  for  him ; I will  but  step  home  first  and  put  up  this  ass,  then  I will 

come  back  to  you,  and  we  will  about  it  out  of  hand.’ 

‘“Truly,  brother,’  said  the  other,  ‘I  am  mightily  beholden  to  you,  and  will  do  as  much 
for  you  another  time.’ 

“ The  story  happened  neither  more  nor  less,  but  such  as  I tell  you,  for  so  all  that  know 

it  relate  it  word  for  word.  In  short,  the  two  aldermen,  hand-in-hand,  trudged  afoot  up  the 

hills,  and  hunted  up  and  down  ; but  after  many  a weary  step,  no  ass  was  to  be  found.  Upon 
which  quoth  the  alderman  that  had  seen  him  to  the  other,  ‘ Hark  you  me,  brother,  I have  a 
device  in  my  noddle  to  find  out  this  same  ass  of  yours,  though  he  were  under  ground,  as 
you  shall  hear.  You  must  know  I can  bray  to  admiration,  and  if  you  can  but  bray  but  never 
so  little,  the  job  is  done.’ 

“‘Never  so  little!’  cried  the  other;  ‘ ble.s  me,  I won’t  vail  my  bonnet  at  braying  to  e’er 
an  ass  or  alderman  in  the  land.’ 

“ ‘ Well,  we  shall  try  that,’  quoth  the  other,  ‘ for  my  contrivance  is,  that  you  go  on 
one  side  of  the  hill,  and  I on  the  other ; sometimes  you  shall  bray,  and  sometimes  I ; so 

that,  if  your  ass  be  but  thereabouts,  my  life  for  yours,  he  will  be  sure  to  answer  his  kind, 
and  bray  again.’ 

“ ‘ Well  done,  brother,’  quoth  the  other  ; * a rare  device  ! let  you  alone  for  plotting.’ 

“ At  the  same  time  they  parted  according  to  agreement,  and  when  they  were  far 

enough  off,  they  both  fell  a-braying  so  perfectly  well,  that  they  cheated  one  another ; and 
meeting,  each  in  hopes  to  find  the  ass,  ‘ Is  it  possible,  brother,’  said  the  owner  of  the  ass, 
‘ that  it  was  not  my  ass  that  brayed  ?’ 

“‘No,  marry,  that  it  was  not;  it  was  I,’  answered  the  other  alderman. 

“‘Well,  brother,’  cried  the  owner,  ‘then  there  is  no  manner  of  difference  between  you 
and  an  ass,  as  to  matter  of  braying ; I never  heard  anything  so  natural  in  my  life.’ 

“ ‘ Oh,  fie ! sir,’  quoth  the  other,  ‘ I am  nothing  to  you  : you  shall  lay  two  to  one  against 

the  best  brayer  in  the  kingdom,  and  I will  go  you  halves.  Your  voice  is  lofty,  and  of  a 
great  compass ; you  keep  excellent  time,  and  hold  out  a note  rarely,  and  your  cadence  is  full 

and  ravishing.  In  short,  sir,  I knock  under  the  table,  and  yield  you  the  bays.’ 

68 


538 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ ‘ Well  then,  brother,’  answered  the  owner,  4 I shall  always  have  the  better  opinion  of 
myself  for  this  one  good  quality;  for  though  I knew  I brayed  pretty  well,  I never  thought 
myself  so  great  a master  before.’ 

“‘Well,’  quoth  the  other,  ‘thus  you  see  what  rare  parts  may  be  lost  for  want  of  being 

known ; and  a man  never  knows  his  own  strength  till  he  puts  it  to  a trial.’ 

“ * Right,  brother,’  quoth  the  owner ; ‘for  I should  never  have  found  out  this  wonderful 
gift  of  mine,  had  it  not  been  for  this  business  in  hand ; and  may  we  speed  in  it,  I pray.” 

“ After  these  compliments  they  parted  again,  and  went  braying,  this  on  one  side  of  the 

hill,  and  that  on  the  other ; but  all  to  no  purpose,  for  they  still  deceived  one  another  with 
their  braying,  and,  running  to  the  noise,  met  one  another  as  before. 

“ At  last  they  agreed  to  bray  twice  one  after  another,  that  by  that  token  they  might  be 

sure  it  was  not  the  ass,  but  they  that  brayed ; but  all  in  vain — they  almost  brayed  their 
hearts  out,  but  no  answer  from  the  ass.  And  indeed,  how  could  he,  poor  creature ! for  they 
found  him  at  last  in  the  wood,  half-eaten  by  the  wolves. 

“ ‘ Alack-a-day  ! poor  Grizzle,’  cried  the  owner ; ‘ I do  not  wonder  now  he  took  so  little 

notice  of  his  loving  master.  Had  he  been  alive,  as  sure  as  he  was  an  ass,  he  would  have 

brayed  again.  But  let  him  go ; this  comfort  I have  at  least,  brother,  though  I have  lost  him, 

I have  found  out  that  rare  talent  of  yours,  that  has  greatly  solaced  me  under  this  affliction.’ 

“ ‘ The  glass  is  in  a good  hand,  Mr.  Alderman,’  quoth  the  other,  ‘ and  if  the  abbot  sings 
well,  the  young  monk  is  not  much  behind  him.’ 

“ With  this  these  same  aldermen,  very  much  down  in  the  mouth,  and  very  hoarse,  went 
home  and  told  all  their  neighbours  the  whole  story,  word  for  word ; one  praising  the  other’s  skill  in 
braying,  and  the  other  returning  the  compliment.  In  short,  one  got  it  by  the  end,  and  the  other  got 
it  by  the  end ; the  boys  got  it,  and  all  the  idle  fellows  got  it,  and  there  was  such  a brawling 
and  such  a braying  in  our  town,  that  one  would  have  thought  madmen  were  broke  loose  among  us. 

But  to  let  you  see  now  how  mischief  never  lies  dead  in  a ditch,  but  catches  at  every  foolish 

thing  to  set  people  by  the  ears,  our  neighbouring  towns  had  it  up ; and  when  they  saw 
any  of  our  townsfolks,  they  fell  a-braying,  hitting  us  in  the  teeth  with  the  braying  of  our 
aldermen.  This  made  ill  blood  between  us ; for  we  took  it  in  mighty  dudgeon,  as  well  we 
might,  and  came  to  words  upon  it,  and  from  words  to  blows ; for  the  people  of  our  town  are 
well  known  by  this,  as  the  beggar  knows  his  dish,  and  are  apt  to  be  jeered  wheresoever  they 

go ; and  then  to  it  they  go,  ding  dong,  hand  over  head,  in  spite  of  law  or  gospel.  And  they 

have  carried  the  jest  so  far,  that  I believe  to-morrow,  or  next  day,  the  men  of  our  town,  to 
wit,  the  brayers,  will  be  in  the  field  against  those  of  another  town  about  two  leagues  off,  that 
are  always  plaguing  us.  Now,  that  we  should  be  well  provided,  I have  brought  these  lances 
and  halberts  that  you  saw  me  carry.  So  this  is  my  story,  gentlefolks,  and  if  it  be  not  a strange 
one,  I am  greatly  mistaken.” 

Here  the  honest  man  ended;  when  presently  enters  a fellow  dressed  in  trousers  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


539 


doublet  all  of  chamois  leather,  and  calling  out,  as  if  he  were  somebody,  “ Landlord,  have  you 
any  lodgings  ? for  here  comes  the  fortune-telling  ape,  and  the  puppet-show  of  Melisandra’s 
deliverance.” 

“Bless  me!”  cried  the  innkeeper,  “who’s  here?  Master  Peter!  We  shall  have  a 
merry  night,  faith ! Honest  Master  Peter,  you  are  welcome  with  all  my  heart ; but  where  is 
the  ape  and  the  show,  that  I cannot  see  them?” 

“ They  will  be  here  presently ; I only  came  before  to  see  if  you  had  any  lodgings.” 

“ Lodging ! man,”  said  the  innkeeper ; “ I would  turn  out  the  Duke  of  Alva  himself, 

rather  than  Master  Peter  should  want  room.  Come,  come,  bring  in  your  things,  for  here  are 
guests  in  the  house  to-night  that  will  be  good  customers  to  you,  I warrant  you.” 

“ That  is  a good  hearing,”  said  Peter  ; “ and  to  encourage  them  I will  lower  my  prices ; 
and  if  I can  but  get  my  charges  to-night,  I will  look  for  no  more  ; so  I will  hasten  forward 
the  cart.”  This  said,  he  ran  out  of  the  door  again. 

I had  forgot  to  tell  you  that  this  same  Master  Peter  wore  over  his  left  eye  and  half 
his  cheek  a patch  of  green  taffeta,  by  which  it  was  supposed  that  something  ailed  that  side 
of  his  face. 

Don  Quixote  inquired  who  this  Master  Peter  was,  and  what  his  ape  and  his  show. 

“ Why,  sir,”  answered  the  innkeeper,  “ he  has  strolled  about  the  country  this  great  while 
with  a curious  puppet-show,  which  represents  the  play  of  Melisandra  and  Don  Gayferos,  one 
of  the  best  shows  that  has  been  acted  time  out  of  mind  in  this  kingdom.  Then  he  has  an 
ape:  bless  us,  sir,  it  is  such  an  ape! — but  I will  say  no  more — you  shall  see,  sir.  It  will  tell 
you  everything  you  did  in  your  life.  The  like  was  never  seen  before.  Ask  it  a question, 
it  will  listen  to  you,  and  then,  whip  ! up  it  leaps  on  its  master’s  shoulder,  and  whispers  first 

in  his  ear  what  it  knows,  and  then  Master  Peter  tells  you.  He  tells  you  what  is  to  come 

as  well  as  what  is  past : it  is  true,  he  does  not  always  hit  so  pat  what  is  to  come ; 
but  after  all,  he  is  seldom  in  the  wrong,  which  makes  us  apt  to  think  some  one  helps 

him  at  a dead  lift.  Two  reals  is  the  price  for  every  question  he  answers,  or  his  master 

for  him,  which  is  all  one,  you  know ; and  that  will  mount  to  money  at  the  year’s  end, 

so  that  it  is  thought  the  rogue  is  well  to  pass ; and,  indeed,  much  good  may  it  do  him,  for 

he  is  a notable  fellow,  and  leads  the  merriest  life  in  the  world  ; talks  for  six  men,  and  drinks 

for  a dozen  ; and  all  this  he  gets  by  his  tongue,  his  ape,  and  his  show.” 

By  this  time  Master  Peter  came  back  with  his  puppet-show  and  his  ape  in  a cart.  The 
ape  was  pretty  lusty,  without  any  tail,  and  his  back  bare  as  a felt ; yet  he  was  not  very 
ugly  neither.  Don  Quixote  no  sooner  saw  him,  but  coming  up  to  him,  “Mr.  Fortune-Teller,” 
said  he,  “will  you  be  pleased  to  tell  us  what  fish  we  shall  catch,  and  what  will  become  of  us? 
and  here  is  your  fee.”  Saying  this,  he  ordered  Sancho  to  deliver  Master  Peter  two  reals. 

“ Sir,”  answered  Peter,  “ this  animal  gives  no  account  of  things  to  come  ; he  knows  some- 
thing, indeed,  of  matters  past,  and  a little  of  the  present.” 


1 


540 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“Oh,  indeed!”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ I would  not  give  a brass  jack  to  know  what  is  past,  for 
who  knows  that  better  than  myself  ? I am  not  so  foolish  as  to  pay  for  what  I know  already : 
'but  since  you  say  he  has  such  a knack  at  guessing  the  present,  let  goodman  ape  tell  me  whai 
my  wife  Teresa  is  doing,  and  here  are  my  two  reals.” 

“ I will  have  nothing  of  you  beforehand,”  said  Master  Peter ; so,  clapping  himself  on  his 
left  shoulder,  up  skipped  the  ape  thither  at  one  frisk,  and,  laying  his  mouth  to  his  ear,  grated 
his  teeth ; and  having  made  apish  grimaces,  and  a chattering  noise,  for  a minute  or  two,  with 
another  skip  down  he  leaped  upon  the  ground.  Immediately  upon  this,  Master  Peter  ran  to 
Don  Quixote,  fell  on  his  knees,  and,  embracing  his  legs,  “ Oh,  glorious  restorer  of  knight- 
errantry,”  cried  he,  “ I embrace  these  legs  as  I would  the  pillars  of  Hercules  ! Who  can 
sufficiently  extol  the  great  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  the  reviver  of  drooping  hearts,  the 
prop  and  stay  of  the  falling,  the  raiser  of  the  fallen,  and  the  staff  of  comfort  to  the  weak!” 

At  these  words  Don  Quixote  stood  amazed,  Sancho  quaked,  the  page  wondered,  the  brayer 
blessed  himself,  the  innkeeper  stared,  and  the  scholar  was  in  a brown  study,  all  astonished  at 
Master  Peter’s  speech,  who  then,  turning  to  Sancho,  exclaimed,  “ And  thou,  honest  Sancho 
Panza,  the  best  squire  to  the  best  knight  in  the  world,  bless  thy  stars,  for  thy  good  spouse 
Teresa  is  a good  house-wife,  and  is  at  this  instant  dressing  a pound  of  flax ; by  the  same 
token,  she  has  standing  by  her,  on  her  left  hand,  a large  broken-mouth  jug,  which  holds  a pretty 
scantling  of  wine,  to  cheer  up  her  spirits.” 

“ By  yea  and  nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  is  likely  enough ; for  she  is  a true  soul,  and  a jolly 
soul  : were  it  not  for  a spice  of  jealousy  that  she  has  now  and  then,  I would  not  change  her 
for  the  giantess  Andondona  herself,  who,  as  my  master  says,  was  as  clever  a piece  of  woman’s 

flesh  as  ever  went  upon  two  legs.  Well,  much  good  may  it  do  thee,  honest  Teresa;  thou  art 

resolved  to  provide  for  one,  I find,  though  thy  heirs  starve  for  it.” 

“Well,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “great  is  the  knowledge  procured  by  reading,  travel,  and 
experience.  What  on  earth  but  the  testimony  of  my  own  eyes  could  have  persuaded  me  that 
apes  had  the  gift  of  divination ! I am  indeed  the  same  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  mentioned 
by  this  ingenious  animal,  though  I must  confess  somewhat  undeserving  of  so  great  a character 

as  it  has  pleased  him  to  bestow  on  me  ; but  nevertheless  I am  not  sorry  to  have  charity  and 

compassion  bear  so  great  a part  in  my  commendation,  since  my  nature  has  always  disposed  me 
to  do  good  to  all  men,  and  hurt  to  none.” 

“ Now  had  I but  money,”  said  the  page,  “ I would  know  of  Mr.  Ape  what  luck  I should 
have  in  the  wars.” 

“ I have  told  you  already,”  said  Master  Peter,  who  was  got  up  from  before  Don  Quixote, 
“ that  this  ape  does  not  meddle  with  what  is  to  come ; but  if  he  could,  it  should  cost  you 
nothing,  for  Don  Quixote’s  sake,  whom  to  oblige  I would  sacrifice  all  the  interest  I have  in 
the  world ; and  as  a mark  of  it,  gentlemen,  I freely  set  up  my  show,  and  give  all  the  company 
in  the  house  some  diversion  gratis.” 


Ai  these  words  Don  Quixote  stood  amazed.” — 540 


54  2 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


The  innkeeper,  hearing  this,  was  overjoyed,  and  ordered  Master  Peter  a convenient  room 
to  set  up  his  motion,  and  he  immediately  went  about  it. 

In  the  meantime  Don  Quixote,  who  could  not  bring  himself  to  believe  that  an  ape  could 
do  all  this,  taking  Sancho  to  a corner  of  the  stable,  “ Look  ye,  Sancho,”  said  he,  “ I have  been 
weighing  and  considering  the  wonderful  gifts  of  this  ape,  and  find,  in  short,  that  Master  Peter 
must  have  made  a secret  compact  with  the  devil.” 

“Nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  misunderstanding  the  word  compact , “if  the  devil  and  he  have 
packed  anything  together  in  hugger-mugger,  it  is  a pack  of  roguery,  to  be  sure,  and  they  are 
a pack  of  knaves  for  their  pains,  and  let  them  e’en  pack  together,  say  I.” 

“ Thou  dost  not  apprehend  me,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ I mean,  the  devil  and  he  must  have 
made  an  agreement  together,  that  Satan  should  infuse  his  knowledge  into  the  ape,  to  purchase 
the  owner  an  estate ; and,  in  return,  the  last  has  certainly  engaged  his  soul  to  this  destructive 
seducer  of  mankind ; for  the  ape’s  knowledge  is  exactly  of  the  same  proportion  with  the  devil’s, 
which  only  extends  to  the  discovery  of  things  past  and  present,  having  no  insight  into  futurity, 
but  by  such  probable  conjectures  and  conclusions  as  may  be  deduced  from  the  former  working 
of  antecedent  causes  ; true  prescience  and  prediction  being  the  sacred  prerogative  of  God,  to 
whose  all-seeing  eyes  all  ages,  past,  present,  and  to  come,  without  the  distinction  of  succession 

and  termination,  are  always  present.  From  this,  I say,  it  is  apparent  that  this  ape  is  but  the 

organ  through  which  the  devil  delivers  his  answers  to  those  that  ask  it  questions  ; and  this 
same  rogue  should  be  put  into  the  Inquisition,  and  have  the  truth  pressed  out  of  his  bones. 
For  sure  neither  the  master  nor  his  ape  can  lay  any  pretence  to  judicial  astrology,  nor  is  the 
ape  so  conversant  in  the  mathematics,  I suppose,  as  to  erect  a scheme.  Though  I must  con- 
fess that  creatures  of  less  parts,  as  foolish,  illiterate  women,  footmen,  and  cobblers,  pretend  now- 
a-days  to  draw  certainties  from  the  stars,  as  easily  and  as  readily  as  they  shuffle  a pack  of 
cards,  to  the  disgrace  of  the  sublime  science,  which  they  have  the  impudence  to  profess.” 

“ For  all  that,”  said  Sancho,  “ I would  have  you  ask  Master  Peter’s  ape  whether  the 

passages  you  told  us  concerning  the  cave  of  Montesinos  be  true  or  no  ; for,  saving  the  respect  I 
owe  your  worship,  I take  them  to  be  no  better  than  fibs  and  idle  stories,  or  dreams  at 
least.” 

“You  may  think  what  you  will,”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “however,  I will  do  as  you 
would  have  me,  though  I confess  my  conscience  somewhat  scruples  to  do  such  a thing.” 

While  they  were  thus  engaged  in  discourse,  Master  Peter  came  and  told  Don  Quixote 
the  show  was  ready  to  begin,  and  desired  him  to  come  and  see  it,  for  he  was  sure  his  worship 
would  like  it. 

The  knight  told  him  he  had  a question  to  put  to  his  ape  first,  and  desired  he  might 
tell  him  whether  certain  things  that  happened  to  him  in  the  cave  of  Montesinos  were  dreams 
or  realities,  for  he  doubted  they  had  something  of  both  in  them. 

Master  Peter  fetched  his  ape  immediately,  and,  placing  him  just  before  the  knight  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


545 


his  squire,  “ Look  you,”  said  he,  “ Mr.  Ape,  this  worthy  knight  would  have  you  tell  him 
whether  some  things  which  happened  to  him  in  the  cave  of  Montesinos  are  true  or  no.”  Then, 
upon  the  usual  signal,  the  ape,  jumping  upon  Master  Peter’s  left  shoulder,  chattered  his  answer 
into  his  ear,  which  the  interpreter  delivered  thus  to  the  inquirer: — “ The  ape,  sir,  says  that  part 
of  those  things  are  false,  and  part  of  them  true,  which  is  all  he  can  resolve  ye  as  to  this 
question;  and  now  his  virtue  has  left  him,  and  won’t  return  till  Friday  next.  If  you  would 
know  any  more  you  must  stay  till  then,  and  he  will  answer  as  many  questions  as  you  please.” 

“Look  you  there  now!”  quoth  Sancho  ; “did  not  I tell  you  that  all  you  told  us  of  the 
cave  of  Montesinos  would  not  hold  water?” 

“ That  the  event  will  determine,”  replied  the  knight,  “ which  we  must  leave  to  process  of 

time  to  produce,  for  it  brings  everything  to  light,  though  buried  in  the  bowels  of  the  earth. 

No  more  of  this  at  present  : let  us  now  see  the  puppet-show  ; I fancy  we  shall  find  something 
in  it  worth  seeing.” 

“Something!”  said  Master  Peter;  “sir,  you  shall  see  a thousand  things  worth  seeing. 
I tell  you,  sir,  I defy  the  world  to  show  such  another.  I say  no  more : Operibus  credite , 

et  non  verbis.  But  now  let  us  begin,  for  it  grows  late,  and  we  have  much  to  do,  say, 

and  show.” 

Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  complied,  and  went  into  the  room  where  the  show  stood 
with  a good  number  of  small  wax-lights  glimmering  round  about,  that  made  it  shine  gloriously. 
Master  Peter  got  to  his  station  within,  being  the  man  that  was  to  move  the  puppets ; and 
his  boy  stood  before  to  tell  what  the  puppets  said,  and,  with  a white  wand  in  his  hand, 

to  point  at  the  several  figures  as  they  came  in  and  out,  and  explain  the  mystery  of  the 

show.  Then,  all  the  audience  having  taken  their  places,  Don  Quixote,  Sancho,  the  scholar, 
and  the  page,  being  preferred  to  the  rest,  the  boy,  who  was  the  mouth  of  the  motion, 

began  a story,  that  shall  be  heard  or  seen  by  those  who  will  take  the  pains  to  read  or 

hear  the  next  chapter. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

A PLEASANT  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  PUPPET-PLAY,  WITH  OTHER  VERY  GOOD  THINGS  TRULY. 

THE  Tyrians  and  the  Trojans  were  all  silent  ; that  is,  the  ears  of  all  the  spectators  hung 

on  the  mouth  of  the  interpreter  of  the  show,  when,  in  the  first  place,  they  heard  a loud 

flourish  of  kettle-drums  and  trumpets  within  the  machine,  and  then  several  discharges  of 
artillery ; which  prelude  being  soon  over,  “ Gentlemen,”  cried  the  boy,  raising  his  voice,  “ we 
present  you  here  with  a true  history,  taken  out  of  the  Chronicles  of  France,  and  the  Spanish 
ballads,  sung  even  by  the  boys  about  the  streets,  and  in  everybody’s  mouth ; it  tells  you 
how  Don  Gayferos  delivered  his  wife  Melisandra,  that  was  a prisoner  among  the  Moors  in 
Spain,  in  the  city  of  Sansuena,  now  called  Saragosa.  Now,  gallants,  the  first  figure  we 
present  you  with  is  Don  Gayferos  playing  at  tables,  according  to  the  ballad : 

Now  Gayferos  the  live-long  day, 

Oh  ! arrant  shame,  at  draughts  does  play ; 

And,  as  at  court  most  husbands  do, 

Forgets  his  lady  fair  and  true.’ 

“ Gentlemen,  in  the  next  place,  mark  that  personage  that  peeps  out  there  with  a crown  on 

his  head  and  a sceptre  in  his  hand ; it  is  the  Emperor  Charlemagne,  the  fair  Melisandra’s 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


545 


reputed  father,  who,  vexed  at  the  idleness  and  negligence  of  his  son-in-law,  comes  to  chide  him; 
and  pray  observe  with  what  passion  and  earnestness  he  rates  him,  as  if  he  had  a mind  to  lend 
’ him  half  a dozen  sound  raps  over  the  pate  with  his  sceptre  ; nay,  some  authors  do  not  stick  to 
tell  ye  he  gave  him  as  many,  and  well  laid  on  too.  And  after  he  had  told  him  how  his  honour 
lay  a-bleeding  till  he  had  delivered  his  wife  out  of  durance,  among  many  other  pithy  sayings, 

‘ Look  co  it,’  quoth  he  to  him  as  he  went,  ‘ I will  say  no  more.’  Mind  how  the  emperor  turns 
his  back  upon  him,  and  how  he  leaves  Don  Gayferos  nettled,  and  in  the  dumps.  Now  see 
how  he  starts  up,  and,  in  a rage,  dings  the  tables  one  way,  and  whirls  the  men  another  ; and, 
calling  for  his  arms  with  all  haste,  borrows  his  cousin-german  Orlando’s  sword,  Durindana, 
who  withal  offers  to  go  along  with  him  in  this  difficult  adventure  ; but  the  valorous  enraged 
knight  will  not  let  him,  and  says  he  is  able  to  deliver  his  wife  himself  without  his  help,  though 
they  kept  her  down  in  the  very  centre  of  the  earth.  And  now  he  is  going  to  put  on  his 
armour,  in  order  to  begin  his  journey. 

“Now,  gentlemen,  cast  your  eyes  upon  yon  tower;  you  are  to  suppose  it  one  of  the 
towers  of  the  castle  of  Saragosa,  now  called  the  Aljaferia.  That  lady  whom  you  see  in 
the  balcony  there  in  a Moorish  habit  is  the  peerless  Melisandra,  that  casts  many  a heavy 
look  towards  France,  thinking  of  Paris  and  her  husband,  the  only  comfort  in  her  imprison- 
ment. But  now  !— silence,  gentlemen,  pray  silence — here  is  an  accident  wholly  new,  the  like 
perhaps  never  heard  of  before.  Don’t  you  see  that  Moor,  who  comes  a-tiptoe,  creeping  and 
stealing  along,  with  his  finger  in  his  mouth,  behind  Melisandra  ? Hear  what  a smack  he 
gives  her  on  her  sweet  lips,  and  see  how  she  spits,  and  wipes  her  mouth  with  her  white 
sleeve ; see  how  she  takes  on,  and  tears  her  lovely  hair  for  very  madness,  as  if  it  were  to 
blame  this  affront.  Next,  pray  observe  that  grave  Moor  that  stands  in  the  open  gallery; 
that  is  Marsilius,  the  king  of  Sansuena,  who,  having  been  an  eye-witness  of  the  sauciness 
of  the  Moor,  ordered  him  immediately  to  be  apprehended,  though  his  kinsman  and  great 
favourite ; to  have  two  hundred  lashes  given  him  ; then  to  be  carried  through  the  city,  with 
criers  before  to  proclaim  his  crime,  the  rods  of  justice  behind.  And  look  how  all  this  is  put 
in  execution  sooner  almost  than  the  fact  is  committed ; for  among  Moors,  ye  must  know, 
there  is  no  citation  of  the  party,  nor  copies  of  the  process,  nor  delay  of  justice,  as 
among  us.” 

“ Child,  child,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ go  on  directly  with  your  story,  and  don’t  keep  us  here 
with  your  excursions  and  ramblings  out  of  the  road.  I tell  you  there  must  be  a formal  pro- 
cess, and  legal  trial,  to  prove  matters  of  fact.” 

“ Boy,”  said  the  master  from  behind  the  show,  “ do  as  the  gentleman  bids  you.  Don't 
run  so  much  upon  flourishes,  but  follow  your  plain  song,  without  venturing  on  counter-points, 
for  fear  of  spoiling  all.” 

“ I will,  sir,”  quoth  the  boy,  and  so  proceeding  : “ Now,  sirs,  he  that  you  see  there  a-horse- 
back,  wrapped  up  in  the  Gascoigne  cloak,  is  Don  Gayferos  himself,  whom  his  wife,  now  revenged 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


546 

on  the  Moor  for  his  impudence,  seeing  from  the  battlements  of  the  tower,  takes  him  for  a 
stranger,  and  talks  with  him  as  such,  according  to  the  ballad, 

‘Quoth  Melisandra,  If  perchance, 

Sir  Traveller,  you  go  for  France, 

For  pity’s  sake,  ask  when  you’re  there 
For  Gayferos,  my  husband  dear.’ 

“ I omit  the  rest,  not  to  tire  you  with  a long  story.  It  is  sufficient  that  he  makes 
himself  known  to  her,  as  you  may  guess  by  the  joy  she  shows  ; and  accordingly,  now  see  how 
she  lets  herself  down  from  the  balcony,  to  come  at  her  loving  husband,  and  get  behind  him ; 

but  unhappily,  alas ! one  of  the  skirts  of  her  gown  is  caught  upon  one  of  the  spikes  of  the 

balcony,  and  there  she  hangs  and  hovers  in  the  air  miserably,  without  being  able  to  get  down. 
But  see  how  Heaven  is  merciful,  and  sends  relief  in  the  greatest  distress  ! Now  Don  Gayferos 
rides  up  to  her,  and,  not  fearing  to  tear  her  rich  gown,  lays  hold  on  it,  and  at  one  pull  brings 
her  down  ; and  then  at  one  lift  sets  her  astride  upon  his  horse’s  crupper,  bidding  her  to  sit 
fast,  and  clap  her  arms  about  him,  that  she  might  not  fall  ; for  the  Lady  Melisandra  was  not 
used  to  that  kind  of  riding. 

“ Observe  now,  gallants,  how  the  horse  neighs,  and  shows  how  proud  he  is  of  the  burden 

of  his  brave  master  and  fair  mistress.  Look  now  how  they  turn  their  backs,  and  leave  the 

city,  and  gallop  it  merrily  away  towards  Paris,  Peace  be  with  you,  for  a peerless  couple  of 
true  lovers ! may  ye  get  safe  and  sound  into  your  own  country,  without  any  let  or  ill  chance 
in  your  journey,  and  live  as  long  as  Nestor,  in  peace  and  quietness  among  your  friends  and 
relations.” 

Plainness,  boy  !”  cried  Master  Peter,  “ none  of  your  flights,  I beseech  you,  for  affectation 
is  unbearable.” 

The  boy  answered  nothing,  but  going  on,  “Now,  sirs,”  quoth  he,  “some  of  those  idle 
people,  that  love  to  pry  into  everything,  happened  to  spy  Melisandra  as  she  was  making  her 
escape,  and  ran  presently  and  gave  Marsilius  notice  of  it:  whereupon  he  straight  commanded 
to  sound  an  alarm  ; and  now  mind  what  a din  and  hurly-burly  there  is,  and  how  the  city 
shakes  with  the  ring  of  the  bells  backwards  in  all  the  mosques!” 

“ There  you  are  out,  boy,”  said  Don  Quixote  : “ the  Moors  have  no  bells ; they  only  use 
kettle-drums,  and  a kind  of  shawms,  like  our  waits  or  hautboys  ; so  that  your  ringing  of  bells 
in  Sansuena  is  a mere  absurdity,  good  Master  Peter.” 

“ Nay,  sir,”  said  Master  Peter,  giving  over  ringing,  “ if  you  stand  upon  these  trifles  with 
us,  we  shall  never  please  you.  Don’t  be  so  severe  a critic : are  there  not  a thousand  plays 
that  pass  with  great  success  and  applause,  though  they  have  many  greater  absurdities,  and 
nonsense  in  abundance  ? On,  boy,  on ! let  there  be  as  many  impertinences  as  motes  in  the 
sun,  no  matter,  so  I get  the  money.” 

“ Well  said,”  answered  Don  Quixote. 


54^ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Ana  now.  sirs,”  quoth  the  boy,  “ observe  what  a vast  company  of  glittering  horse  comes 
pouring  out  of  the  city,  in  pursuit  of  the  Christian  lovers  ; what  a dreadful  sound  of  trumpets, 
and  clarions,  and  drums,  and  kettle-drums  there  is  in  the  air.  I fear  they  will  overtake  them, 
and  then  will  the  poor  wretches  be  dragged  along  most  barbarously  at  the  tails  of  their  horses, 
which  would  be  sad  indeed.” 

Don  Quixote,  seeing  such  a number  of  Moors,  and  hearing  such  an  alarm,  thought  it 
high  time  to  assist  the  flying  lovers  ; and  starting  up,  “ It  shall  never  be  said  while  I live, 
cried  he  aloud,  “ that  I suffered  such  a wrong  to  be  done  to  so  famous  a knight  and  so  daring 
a lover  as  Don  Gayferos.  Forbear,  then,  your  unjust  pursuit,  ye  base-born  rascals!  Stop,  or 
prepare  to  meet  my  furious  resentment!” 

Then  drawing  out  his  sword,  to  make  good  his  threats,  at  one  spring  he  gets  to  the 
show,  and  with  a violent  fury  lays  at  the  Moorish  puppets,  cutting  and  slashing  in  a most 
terrible  manner ; some  he  overthrows,  and  beheads  others ; maims  this,  and  cleaves  that  in 
pieces.  Among  the  rest  of  his  merciless  strokes,  he  thundered  one  down  with  such  a mighty 
force,  that  had  not  Master  Peter  luckily  ducked  and  squatted  down,  it  had  certainly  chopped 
off  his  head  as  easily  as  one  might  cut  an  apple. 

“Hold,  hold,  sir!”  cried  the  puppet-player,  after  the  narrow  escape;  “hold,  for  pity’s  sake.! 
What  do  you  mean,  sir  ? These  are  no  real  Moors  that  you  cut  and  hack  so,  but  poor 
harmless  puppets  made  of  pasteboard.  Think  of  what  you  do ; you  ruin  me  for  ever ! Oh, 
that  ever  I was  born  ! you  have  broke  me  quite.” 

But  Don  Quixote,  without  minding  his  words,  doubled  and  redoubled  his  blows  so  thick, 
and  laid  about  him  so  outrageously,  that  in  less  than  two  credos  he  had  cut  all  the  strings  and 
wires,  mangled  the  puppets,  and  spoiled  and  demolished  the  whole  motion.  King  Marsilius 
was  in  a grievous  condition.  The  Emperor  Charlemagne’s  head  and  crown  were  cleft  in  two. 
The  whole  audience  was  in  a sad  consternation.  The  ape  scampered  off  to  the  top  of  the 
house.  The  scholar  was  frightened  out  of  his  wits  ; the  page  was  very  uneasy,  and  Sancho 
himself  was  in  a terrible  fright ; for,  as  he  said  after  the  hurricane  was  over,  he  had  never 
seen  his  master  in  such  a rage  before. 

The  general  rout  of  the  puppets  being  over,  Don  Quixote’s  fury  began  to  abate ; and 
with  a more  pacified  countenance  turning  to  the  company,  “ Now,”  said  he,  “ I could  wish  all 
those  incredulous  persons  here  who  slight  knight-errantry  might  receive  conviction  of  their 
error,  and  behold  undeniable  proofs  of  the  benefit  of  that  function : for  how  miserable  had 
been  the  condition  of  poor  Don  Gayferos  and  the  fair  Melisandra  by  this  time,  had  I not 
been  here  and  stood  up  in  their  defence ! I make  no  question  but  those  infidels  would 
have  apprehended  them,  and  used  them  barbarously.  Well,  when  all  is  done,  long  live 
knight-errantry ; long  let  it  live,  I say,  above  all  things  whatsoever  in  this  world  !" 

“ Ay,  ay,”  said  Master  Peter  in  a doleful  tone,  “ let  it  live  long  for  me,  so  I may  die ; 
for  why  should  I live  so  unhappy  as  to  say  with  King  Roderigo,  ‘Yesterday  I was  lord  of 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


549 


Spain,  to-day  have  not  a foot  of  land  I can  call  mine  ?'  It  is  not  half  an  hour,  nay,  scarce  a 
moment,  since  I had  kings  and  emperors  at  command.  I had  horses  in  abundance,  and  chests 
and  bags  full  of  fine  things ; but  now  you  see  me  a poor  sorry  undone  man,  quite  and  clean 
broke  and  cast  down,  and  in  short  a mere  beggar.  What  is  worst  of  all,  I have  lost  my  ape 
too,  who  I am  sure  will  make  me  sweat  ere  I catch  him  again  ; and  all  through  the  rash 
fury  of  this  Sir  Knight  here,  who  they  say  protects  the  fatherless,  redresses  wrongs,  and  does 
other  charitable  deeds,  but  has  failed  in  all  these  good  offices  to  miserable  me,  Heaven  be 
praised  for  it.  Well  may  I call  him  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  for  he  has  put  me  and 
all  that  belongs  to  me  in  a woful  case.’' 

The  puppet-player’s  lamentations  moving  Sancho’s  pity,  “ Come,”  quoth  he,  “ don’t  cry, 
Master  Peter ; thou  break’st  my  heart  to  hear  thee  take  on  so  ; don’t  be  cast  down,  man,  for 
my  master’s  a better  Christian,  I am  sure,  than  to  let  any  poor  man  come  to  loss  by  him  : 
when  he  comes  to  know  he  has  done  you  wrong,  he  will  pay  you  for  every  farthing  of  damage, 
I will  engage.” 

o o 

“Truly,”  said  Master  Peter,  “if  his  worship  would  but  pay  me  for  the  fashion  of  my 
puppets  he  has  spoiled  I will  ask  no  more,  and  he  will  discharge  a good  conscience ; for  he 
that  wrongs  his  neighbour,  and  does  not  make  restitution,  can  never  hope  to  be  saved,  that  is 
certain.” 

“I  grant  it,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “but  I am  not  sensible  how  I have  in  the  least  injured 
you,  good  Master  Peter.” 

“No,  sir!  not  injured  me?”  cried  Master  Peter.  “Why,  these  poor  relics  that  lie  here 
on  the  cold  ground  cry  out  for  vengeance  against  you.  Was  it  not  the  invincible  force  of 
that  powerful  arm  of  yours  that  has  scattered  and  dismembered  them  so  ? And  whose  were 
those  bodies,  sir,  but  mine?  and  by  whom  was  I maintained,  but  by  them  ?” 

“Well,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “now  I am  thoroughly  convinced  of  a truth  which  I have  had 
reason  to  believe  before,  that  those  cursed  magicians  that  daily  persecute  me  do  nothing  but 
delude  me,  first  drawing  me  into  dangerous  adventures  by  the  appearances  of  them  as  really 
they  are,  and  then  presently  after  changing  the  face  of  things  as  they  please.  Really  and 
truly,  gentlemen,  I vow  and  protest  before  you  all  that  hear  me,  that  all  that  was  acted  here 
seemed  to  be  really  transacted  ipso  facto  as  it  appeared.  To  me  Melisandra  appeared  to  be 
Melisandra,  Don  Gayferos  was  Don  Gayferos,  Marsilius  was  Marsilius,  and  Charlemagne  was  the 
real  Charlemagne ; which  being  so,  I could  not  contain  my  fury,  and  acted  according  to  the 
duties  of  my  function,  which  obliges  me  ta  " 1 the  injured  side.  Now,  though  what  I have 

done  proves  to  be  quite  contrary  to  my  good  design,  the  fault  ought  not  to  be  imputed  to 
me,  but  to  my  persecuting  foes ; yet  I own  myself  sorry  for  the  mischance,  and  will  condemn 
myself  to  pay  the  costs.  Let  Master  Peter  see  what  he  must  have  for  the  figures  that  are 
damaged,  and  I will  pay  it  him  now  in  good  and  lawful  money  on  the  nail  ” 

“Heaven  bless  your  worship!”  cried  Master  Peter,  with  a profound  cringe;  ‘‘I  could  expect 


550 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


no  less  trom  the  wonderful  Christianity  of  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  the  sure 
relief  and  bulwark  of  all  miserable  wanderers.  Now  let  my  landlord  and  the  great  Sancho  be 
mediators  and  appraisers  between  your  worship  and  myself,  and  I will  stand  to  their  award.” 

They  agreed  ; and  presently  Master  Peter,  taking  up  Marsilius,  King  of  Saragosa,  that  lay 
by  on  the  ground  with  his  head  off,  “You  see,  gentlemen,"  said  he,  “it  is  impossible  to  restore 
this  king  to  his  former  dignity ; and  therefore,  with  submission  to  your  better  judgments, 
I think  that  for  his  destruction,  and  to  get  him  a successor,  seven-and-twenty  pence  is  little 
enough  on  conscience.” 

“ Proceed,"  said  Don  Quixote. 

“ Then  for  this  that  is  cleft  in  two,”  said  Master  Peter,  taking  up  the  Emperor  Charlemagne, 
“ 1 think  he  is  richly  worth  one-and-thirty  pence  halfpenny.” 

“ Not  so  richly,  neither,”  quoth  Sancho. 

“Truly,"  said  the  innkeeper,  “I  think  it  is  pretty  reasonable;  but  we  will  make  it  even 
money — let  the  poor  fellow  have  half  a crown.” 

“Come,"  said  Don  Quixote,  “let  him  have  his  full  price.  We  will  not  stand  haggling 
for  so  small  a matter  in  a case  like  this ; so  make  haste,  Master  Peter,  for  it  is  near  supper- 
time, and  I have  some  strong  presumptions  that  I shall  eat  heartily.” 

“ Now,”  said  Master  Peter,  “ for  this  figure  here  that  is  without  a nose,  and  blind  with 
one  eye,  being  the  fair  Melisandra,  I will  be  reasonable  with  you : give  me  fourteen  pence  ; 
I would  not  take  less  from  my  brother.” 

“ Nay,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I am  mistaken  if  Melisandra  be  not  by  this  time,  witn  her 
husband,  upon  the  frontiers  of  France  at  least,  for  the  horse  that  carried  them  seemed  to  me 
rather  to  fly  than  to  gallop  ; and  now  you  tell  me  of  a Melisandra  here  without  a nose,  forsooth, 
when  it  is  ten  to  one  she  is  in  France.  Come,  come,  friend,  Heaven  help  every  man  to  his 
own;  let  us  have  fair  dealing;  so  proceed.” 

Master  Peter,  finding  that  the  knight  began  to  harp  upon  the  old  string,  was  afraid  he 

would  fly  off ; and  making  as  if  he  had  better  considered  of  it,  “ Cry  ye  mercy,  sir,”  said  he,  “ I 

was  mistaken.  This  could  not  be  Melisandra,  indeed,  but  one  of  the  damsels  that  waited  on 
her ; and  so  I think  fivepence  will  be  fair  enough  for  her.”  In  this  manner  he  went  on, 

setting  his  price  upon  the  dead  and  wounded,  which  the  arbitrators  moderated  to  the  content 

of  both  parties  ; and  the  whole  sum  amounted  to  fort  ’ reals  and  three  quarters,  which  Sancho 
paid  him  down  ; and  then  Master  Peter  demanded  two  . _als  more,  for  the  trouble  of  catching 
his  ape. 

“ Give  it  him,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  set  tire  monkey  to  catch  the  ape  ; and  now  would 
I give  two  hundred  more  to  be  assured  that  Don  Gayferos  and  the  Lady  Melisandra  were  safely 
arrived  in  France  among:  their  friends.” 

“ Nobody  can  better  tell  than  my  ape,”  said  Master  Peter,  “ though  no  one  will  be 
able  to  catch  him  if  hunger  or  his  kindness  for  me  do  not  bring  us  together  again  to  night 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


551 


However,  to-morrow  will  be  a new  day,  and  when  it  is  light  we  will  see  what  is  to  be 
done.” 

The  whole  disturbance  being  appeased,  to  supper  they  went  lovingly  together,  and  Don 
Quixote  treated  the  whole  company,  for  he  was  liberality  itself. 

Before  day  the  man  with  the  lances  and  halberts  left  the  inn,  and  some  time  after  the 
scholar  and  the  page  came  to  take  leave  of  the  knight ; the  first  to  return  home,  and  the  second 
to  continue  his  journey,  towards  whose  charges  Don  Quixote  gave  him  twelve  reals.  As  for 
Master  Peter,  he  knew  too  much  of  the  knight’s  humour  to  desire  to  have  anything  to  do  with 
him,  and  therefore,  having  picked  up  the  ruins  of  the  puppet-show,  and  got  his  ape  again,  by 
break  of  day  he  packed  off  to  seek  his  fortune.  The  innkeeper,  who  did  not  know  Don  Quixote, 
was  as  much  surprised  at  his  liberality  as  at  his  madness.  In  fine,  Sancho  paid  him  very 
honestly  by  his  master’s  order,  and  mounting  a little  before  eight  o’clock,  they  left  the  inn, 
and  proceeded  on  their  journey  ; where  we  will  leave  them,  that  we  may  have  an  opportunity 
to  relate  some  other  matters  very  requisite  for  the  better  understanding  of  this  famous 


history. 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

WHEREIN  IS  DISCOVERED  WHO  MASTER  PETER  WAS,  AND  HIS  APE;  AS  ALSO  DON  QUIXOTE’S  ILL 
SUCCESS  IN  THE  BRAYING  ADVENTURE,  WHICH  DID  NOT  END  SO  HAPPILY  AS  HE  DESIRED  AND 
EXPECTED. 

CID  HAMET,  the  author  of  this  celebrated  history,  begins  this  chapter  with  this  asseve- 
ration : “ I swear  as  a true  Catholic,”  which  the  translator  illustrates  and  explains  in  this 
manner : That  historian’s  swearing  like  a true  Catholic,  though  he  was  a Mahometan  Moor, 
ought  to  be  received  in  no  other  sense  than  that,  as  a true  Catholic,  when  he  affirms  anything 
with  an  oath,  does  or  ought  to  swear  truth,  so  would  he  relate  the  truth  as  impartially  as 
a Christian  would  do  if  he  had  taken  such  an  oath,  in  what  he  designed  to  write  of  Don 
Quixote  ; especially  as  to  the  account  that  is  to  be  given  us  of  the  person  who  was  known  by 
the  name  of  Master  Peter,  and  the  fortune-telling  ape,  whose  answers  occasioned  such  a noise, 
and  created  such  an  amazement  all  over  the  country.  He  says,  then,  that  any  one  who  has 
read  the  foregoing  part  of  this  history  cannot  but  remember  one  Gines  de  Passamonte,  whom 
Don  Quixote  had  rescued  with  several  other  galley-slaves  in  Sierra  Morena — a piece  of  service 
for  which  the  knight  was  not  over-burdened  with  thanks,  and  which  that  ungrateful  pack  of 
rogues  repaid  with  a treatment  altogether  unworthy  such  a deliverance.  This  Gines  de  Passa- 
monte— or,  as  Don  Quixote  called  him.  Ginesillo  de  Parapilla — was  the  very  man  that  stole 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


553 


Sancho’s  ass  : the  manner  of  which  robbery,  and  the  time  when  it  was  committed,  being  not 
inserted  in  the  first  part,  has  been  the  reason  that  some  people  have  laid  that  which  was  caused 
by  the  printer  s neglect  to  the  inadvertency  of  the  author.  But  it  is  beyond  all  question  that 
Gines  stole  the  ass  while  Sancho  slept  on  his  back,  making  use  of  the  same  trick  and  artifice 
which  Brunelo  practised  when  he  carried  off  Sacrepante’s  horse  from  under  his  legs,  at  the  siege 
of  Albraca.  However,  Sancho  got  possession  again,  as  has  been  told  you  before. 

Gines,  it  seems,  being  obnoxious  to  the  law,  was  apprehensive  of  the  strict  search  that 
was  made  after  him  in  order  to  bring  him  to  justice  for  his  repeated  villanies,  which  were 
so  great  and  numerous  that  he  himself  had  wrote  a large  book  of  them ; and  therefore 
he  thought  it  advisable  to  make  the  best  of  his  way  into  the  kingdom  of  Arragon,  and 
having  clapped  a plaister  over  his  left  eye,  resolved  in  that  disguise  to  set  up  a puppet- 
show,  and  stroll  with  it  about  the  country ; for  you  must  know  he  had  not  his  fellow  at 
anything  that  could  be  done  by  sleight  of  hand.  Now  it  happened  that  in  his  way  he  fell 
into  the  company  of  some  Christian  slaves  who  came  from  Barbary,  and  struck  a bargain 
with  them  for  this  ape,  whom  he  taught  to  leap  on  his  shoulder  at  a certain  sign,  and  to 
make  as  if  he  whispered  something  in  his  ear.  Having  brought  his  ape  to  this,  before  he 
entered  into  any  town  he  informed  himself,  in  the  adjacent  parts,  as  well  as  he  could,  of 
what  particular  accidents  had  happened  to  this  or  that  person  ; and,  having  a very  retentive 
memory,  the  first  thing  he  did  was  to  give  them  a sight  of  his  show,  that  represented  some- 
times one  story  and  sometimes  another,  which  were  generally  well  known  and  taking  among 
the  vulgar.  The  next  thing  he  had  to  do  was  to  commend  the  wonderful  qualities  of  his 
ape,  and  tell  the  company  that  the  animal  had  the  gift  of  revealing  things  past  and  present ; 
but  that  in  things  to  come  he  was  altogether  uninstructed.  He  asked  two  reals  for  every 
answer,  though  now  and  then  he  lowered  his  price  as  he  felt  the  pulse  of  his  customers. 
Sometimes  when  he  came  to  the  houses  of  people  of  whose  concerns  he  had  some  account, 
and  who  would  ask  the  ape  no  questions  because  they  did  not  care  to  part  with  their 
money,  he  would  notwithstanding  be  making  signs  to  his  ape,  and  tell  them  the  animal  had 

acquainted  him  with  this  or  that  story,  according  to  the  information  he  had  before ; and  by 

that  means  he  got  a great  credit  among  the  common  people,  and  drew  a mighty  crowd 

after  him.  At  other  times,  though  he  knew  nothing  of  the  person,  the  subtilty  of  his  wit 

supplied  his  want  of  knowledge,  and  brought  him  handsomely  off ; and  nobody  being  so 
inquisitive  or  pressing  as  to  make  him  declare  by  what  means  his  ape  attained  to  this  gift 
of  divination,  he  imposed  on  every  one’s  understanding,  and  got  almost  what  money  he  pleased. 

He  was  no  sooner  come  to  the  inn,  but  he  knew  Don  Quixote,  Sancho,  and  the  rest 
of  the  company.  But  he  had  like  to  have  paid  dear  for  his  knowledge,  had  the  knight’s 
sword  fallen  but  a little  lower  when  he  made  King  Marsilius’s  head  fly,  and  routed  all  his 
Moorish  horse,  as  the  reader  may  have  observed  in  the  foregoing  chapter.  And  this  may 
suffice  in  relation  to  Master  Peter  and  his  ape. 


70 


554 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Now  let  us  overtake  our  champion  of  La  Mancha.  After  he  had  left  the  inn  he  resolved 
to  take  a sight  of  the  river  Ebro  and  the  country  about  it,  before  he  went  to  Saragosa, 
since  he  was  not  straitened  for  time,  but  might  do  that  and  yet  arrive  soon  enough  to  make 
one  at  the  jousts  and  tournaments  at  that  city.  Two  days  he  travelled  without  meeting 
with  anything  worth  his  notice  or  the  reader’s,  when  on  the  third,  as  he  was  riding  up  a 
hill,  he  heard  a great  noise  of  drums,  trumpets,  and  guns.  At  first  he  thought  some  regi- 
ment of  soldiers  was  on  its  march  that  way,  which  made  him  spur  up  Rozinante  to  the  brow 
of  the  hill,  that  he  might  see  them  pass  by  ; and  then  he  saw  in  a bottom  above  two  hundred 
men,  as  near  as  he  could  guess,  armed  with  various  weapons,  as  lances,  cross-bows,  partisans, 
halberts,  pikes,  some  few  firelocks,  and  a great  many  targets.  Thereupon  he  descended  into 
the  vale,  and  made  his  approaches  towards  the  battalion  so  near  as  to  be  able  to  distinguish 
their  banners,  judge  of  their  colours,  and  observe  their  devices  ; more  especially  one  that  was 
to  be  seen  on  a standard  of  white  satin,  on  which  was  represented  to  the  life  a little  jackass, 
much  like  a Sardinian  ass-colt,  holding  up  his  head,  stretching  out  his  neck,  and  thrusting  out 
his  tongue,  in  the  very  posture  of  an  ass  that  is  braying,  with  this  distich  written  in  fair 
characters  about  it : — • 

“’Twas  something  more  than  nothing  which,  one  day, 

Made  one  and  t’other  worthy  bailiff  bray.” 


Don  Quixote  drew  this  inference  from  the  motto,  that  those  were  the  inhabitants  of  the 
braying  town,  and  he  acquainted  Sancho  with  what  he  had  observed,  giving  him  also  to  under- 
stand that  the  man  who  had  told  them  the  story  of  the  two  braying  aldermen  was  apparently 
in  the  wrong,  since,  according  to  the  verses  on  the  standard,  they  were  two  bailiffs  and  not  two 
aldermen. 

“It  matters  not  one  rush  what  you  call  them,”  quoth  Sancho;  “for  those  very  aldermen 
that  brayed  might  in  time  come  to  be  made  bailiffs  of  the  town,  and  so  both  those  titles  might 
have  been  given  them  well  enough.  But  what  is  it  to  you  or  me,  or  the  story,  whether  the 
two  brayers  were  aldermen  or  bailiffs,  so  they  but  brayed  as  we  are  told  ? As  if  a bailiff  were 
not  as  likely  to  bray  as  an  alderman  !” 

In  short,  both  master  and  man  plainly  understood  that  the  men  who  were  thus  up  in 
arms  were  those  that  were  jeered  for  braying,  got  together  to  fight  the  people  of  another 

town,  who  had  indeed  abused  them  more  than  was  the  part  of  good  neighbours ; thereupon 

Don  Quixote  advanced  towards  them,  to  Sancho’s  great  grief,  who  had  no  manner  of  liking 
to  such  kind  of  adventures.  The  multitude  soon  got  about  the  knight,  taking  him  for  some 
champion,  who  was  come  to  their  assistance.  But  Don  Quixote,  lifting  up  his  vizor,  with 

a graceful  deportment  rode  up  to  the  standard,  and  there  all  the  chief  leaders  of  the  army 

got  together  about  him,  in  order  to  take  a survey  of  his  person,  no  less  amazed  at  this  strange 
appearance  than  the  rest.  Don  Quixote  seeing  them  look  so  earnestly  on  him,  and  no  man 
offer  so  much  as  a word  or  question,  took  occasion  from  their  silence  to  break  his  own  ; and, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


555 


raising  his  voice,  “ Good  gentlemen,”  cried  he,  “ I beseech  you,  with  all  the  endearments 
imaginable,  to  give  no  interruption  to  the  discourse  I am  now  delivering  to  you,  unless  you 
find  it  distasteful  or  tedious ; which  if  I am  unhappy  enough  to  occasion,  at  the  least  hint 
you  shall  give  me,  I will  clap  a seal  on  my  lips,  and  a padlock  on  my  tongue.” 

They  all  cried  that  he  might  speak  what  he  pleased,  and  they  would  hear  him  with  all 
their  hearts.  Having  this  licence,  Don  Quixote  proceeded. 

“ Gentlemen,”  said  he,  “ I am  a knight-errant : arms  are  my  exercise  ; and  my  profession 
is  to  show  favour  to  those  that  are  in  necessity  of  favour,  and  to  give  assistance  to  those  that 
are  in  distress.  I have  for  some  time  been  no  stranger  to  the  cause  of  your  uneasiness, 
which  excites  you  to  take  arms  to  be  revenged  on  your  insulting  neighbours ; and  having 
^often  busied  my  intellectuals  in  making  reflections  on  the  motives  which  have  brought  you 
together,  I have  drawn  this  inference  from  it,  that  according  to  the  laws  of  arms,  you  really 
injure  yourselves,  in  thinking  yourselves  affronted;  for  no  particular  person  can  give  an  affront 
to  a whole  town  and  society  of  men,  except  it  be  by  accusing  them  all  of  high-treason  in 

general,  for  want  of  knowing  on  which  of  them  to  fix  some  treasonable  action,  of  which  he 

supposes  some  of  them  to  be  guilty.  We  have  an  instance  of  this  nature  in  Don  Diego 
Ordonnez  de  Lara,  who  sent  a challenge  to  all  the  inhabitants  of  Zamora,  not  knowing  that 
Vellido  de  Olfos  had  assassinated  the  king  his  master  in  that  town,  without  any  accomplices  ; 
and  so,  accusing  and  defying  them  all,  the  defence  and  revenge  belonged  to  them  all  in  general ; 
though  it  must  be  owned  that  Don  Diego  was  somewhat  unreasonable  in  his  defiance,  and 
strained  the  point  too  far  : for  it  was  very  little  to  the  purpose  to  defy  the  dead,  the  waters, 
the  bread,  those  that  were  yet  unborn,  with  many  other  trifling  matters  mentioned  in  the 
challenge.  But  let  that  pass ; for  when  once  the  choler  boils  over,  the  tongue  grows  unruly, 

and  knows  no  moderation.  Taking  it  for  granted,  then,  that  no  particular  person  can 

affront  a whole  kingdom,  province,  city,  commonwealth,  or  body  politic,  it  is  but  just  to  con- 
•clude  that  it  is  needless  to  revenge  such  a pretended  affront ; since  such  an  abuse  is  no 

sufficient  provocation,  and  indeed,  positively  no  affront.  It  would  be  a pretty  piece  of  wisdom, 

truly,  should  those  out  of  the  town  of  Reloxa  sally  out  every  day  on  those  who  spend  their 
ill-natured  breaths,  miscalling  them  everywhere.  It  would  be  a fine  business  indeed,  if  the 
inhabitants  of  those  several  famous  towns  that  are  nick-named  by  our  rabble,  and  called  the 
one  cheesemongers,  the  other  costermongers,  these  fishmongers,  and  those  soap-boilers,  should 
know  no  better  than  to  think  themselves  dishonoured,  and  in  revenge  be  always  drawing  out 
their  swords  at  the  least  word,  for  every  idle,  insignificant  quarrel.  No,  no,  Heaven  forbid ! 
men  of  sagacity  and  wisdom,  and  well-governed  commonwealths,  are  never  induced  to  take 
up  arms,  nor  endanger  their  persons  and  estates,  but  on  the  four  following  occasions  : — In  the 
first  place,  to  defend  the  holy  Catholic  faith.  Secondly,  for  the  security  of  their  lives,  which 
they  are  commanded  to  preserve  by  the  laws  of  God  and  nature.  Thirdly,  the  preservation 

of  their  good  name,  the  reputation  of  their  family,  and  the  conservation  of  their  estates. 


556 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Fourthly,  the  service  due  to  their  prince  in  a just  war;  and  if  we  please,  we  may  add  a fifth, 
which  indeed  may  be  referred  to  the  second,  the  defence  of  our  country.  To  these  five  capital 
causes  may  be  subjoined  several  others,  which  may  induce  men  to  vindicate  themselves,  and 
have  recourse  even  to  the  way  of  arms.  But  to  take  them  up  for  mere  trifles,  and  such  occasions 
as  rather  challenge  our  mirth  and  contemptuous  laughter  than  revenge,  shows  the  person  who 
is  guilty  of  such  proceedings  to  labour  under  a scarcity  of  sense.  Besides,  to  seek  after  an 
unjust  revenge  (and  indeed  no  human  revenge  can  be  just),  is  directly  against  the  holy  law 
we  profess,  which  commands  us  to  forgive  our  enemies,  and  to  do  good  to  those  that  hate  us — 
an  injunction  which,  though  it  seems  difficult  in  the  implicit  obedience  we  should  pay  to  it, 
yet  is  only  so  to  those  who  have  less  of  heaven  than  of  the  world,  and  more  of  the  flesh  than 
of  the  spirit.  For  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  whose  words  never  could  deceive,  said  that 
his  yoke  was  easy,  and  his  burden  light ; and  according  to  that  he  could  prescribe  nothing  to 
our  practice  which  was  impossible  to  be  done.  Therefore,  gentlemen,  since  reason  and  religion 
recommend  love  and  peace  to  you,  I hope  you  will  not  render  yourselves  obnoxious  to  all  laws, 
both  human  and  divine,  by  a breach  of  the  public  tranquillity.” 

“ I am  much  mistaken,”  quoth  Sancho  to  himself,  “ if  this  master  of  mine  was  not  bred 

a parson  ; if  not,  he  is  as  like  one  as  one  egg  is  like  another.” 

Don  Quixote  paused  a while,  to  take  breath  ; and,  perceiving  his  auditory  still  willing  to 

give  him  attention,  had  proceeded  in  his  harangue,  had  not  Sancho’s  good  opinion  of  his  parts 
made  him  lay  hold  on  this  opportunity  to  talk  in  his  turn. 

“Gentlemen,”  quoth  he,  “my  master,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  once  called  the  Knight 
of  the  Woful  Figure,  and  now  the  Knight  of  the  Lions,  is  a very  judicious  gentleman,  and 
talks  Latin  and  his  own  mother-tongue  as  well  as  any  of  your  ’varsity  doctors.  Whatever 
discourse  he  takes  in  hand,  he  speaks  ye  to  the  purpose,  and  like  a man  of  mettle  ; he  has  ye 
all  the  laws  and  rules  of  that  same  thing  you  call  duel  and  punctilio  of  honour,  at  his  fingers’ 
end  ; so  that  you  have  no  more  to  do  but  to  do  as  he  says,  and  if  in  taking  his  counsel  you 

ever  tread  awry,  let  the  blame  be  laid  on  my  shoulders.  And  indeed,  as  you  have  already 

been  told,  it  is  a very  silly  fancy  to  be  ashamed  to  hear  one  bray  ; for  I remember  when  I 
was  a boy,  I could  bray  as  often  as  I listed,  and  nobody  went  about  to  hinder  me ; and  I 
could  do  it  so  rarely,  and  to  the  life,  without  vanity  be  it  spoken,  that  all  the  asses  in  our 
town  would  fall  a-braying  when  they  heard  me  bray  ; yet  for  all  this  I was  an  honest  body’s 

child,  and  came  of  good  parentage,  do  ye  see.  It  is  true,  indeed,  four  of  the  best  young  men 

in  our  parish  envied  me  for  this  great  ability  of  mine  ; but  I cared  not  a rush  for  their  spite. 

Now,  that  you  may  not  think  I tell  you  a lie,  do  but  hear  me  and  then  judge  ; for  this  rare 

art  is  like  swimming,  which,  when  once  learned,  is  never  to  be  forgotten.” 

This  said,  he  clapped  both  the  palms  of  his  hands  to  his  nose,  and  fell  a-braying 

so  obstreperously,  that  it  made  the  neighbouring  valleys  ring  again.  But  while  he  was 

thus  braying,  one  of  those  that  stood  next  to  him,  believing  he  did  it  to  irmck  them,  gave 


"According  to  the  laws  of  arms,  you  reall)  injure  yourselves,  in  thinking  yourselves  affronted.’’—/).  555 


558 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


him  such  a hearty  blow  with  a quarter-staff  on  his  back,  that  down  he  brought  him  to  the 
ground. 

Don  Quixote,  seeing  what  a rough  entertainment  had  been  given  to  his  squire,  moved  with 
his  lance  in  a threatening  posture  towards  the  man  that  had  used  poor  Sancho  thus ; but  the 

crowd  thrust  themselves  in  such  a manner  between  them,  that  the  knight  found  it  impracticable 

to  pursue  the  revenge  he  designed.  At  the  same  time,  finding  that  a shower  of  stones  began 
to  rain  about  his  ears,  and  a great  number  of  cross-bows  and  muskets  were  getting  ready  for 
his  reception,  he  turned  Rozinante’s  reins,  and  galloped  from  them  as  fast  as  four  legs  would 
carry  him,  sending  up  his  hearty  prayers  to  Heaven  to  deliver  him  from  this  danger;  and 
being  under  grievous  apprehension  at  every  step,  that  he  should  be  shot  through  the  back,  and 
have  the  bullet  come  out  at  his  breast,  he  still  went  fetching  his  breath,  to  try  if  it  did  any  ways 
fail  him.  But  the  country  battalion  were  satisfied  with  seeing  him  fly,  and  did  not  offer  to 
shoot  at  him. 

As  for  Sancho,  he  was  set  upon  his  ass  before  he  had  well  recovered  his  senses,  which 

the  blow  had  taken  from  him,  and  then  they  suffered  him  to  move  off ; not  that  the  poor 

fellow  had  strength  enough  to  guide  him,  but  Dapple  naturally  followed  Rozinante  of  his  own 
accord,  not  being  able  to  be  a moment  from  him.  The  Don  being  at  a good  distance  from 
the  armed  multitude,  faced  about,  and  seeing  Sancho  pacing  after  him  without  any  troublesome 
attendants,  stayed  for  his  coming  up.  As  for  the  rabble,  they  kept  their  posts  till  it  grew  dark, 
and  their  enemies  having  not  taken  the  field  to  give  them  battle,  they  marched  home,  so  over- 
joyed to  have  shown  their  courage  without  danger,  that,  had  they  been  so  well  bred  as  to  have 
known  the  ancient  custom  of  the  Greeks,  they  would  have  erected  a trophy  in  that  place. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

OF  SOME  THINGS  WHICH  BENENGELI  TELLS  US  HE  THAT  READS  SHALL  KNOW,  IF  HE  READS  THEM 

WITH  ATTENTION. 

WHEN  the  valiant  man  flies,  he  must  have  discovered  some  foul  play,  and  it  is 
the  part  of  prudent  persons  to  reserve  themselves  for  more  favourable  opportunities. 
This  truth  is  verified  in  Don  Quixote,  who,  rather  than  expose  himself  to  the  fury  of  an 
incensed  and  ill-designing  multitude,  betook  himself  to  flight,  without  any  thoughts  of  Sancho, 
till  he  found  himself  beyond  the  reach  of  those  dangers  in  which  he  had  left  his  trusty  squire 
involved.  Sancho  came  after  him,  as  we  have  told  you  before,  laid  across  his  ass,  and  having 
recovered  his  senses,  overtook  him  at  last,  and  let  himself  drop  from  his  pack-saddle  at 
Rozinante’s  feet,  all  battered  and  bruised,  and  in  a sorrowful  condition.  Don  Quixote  presently 
dismounted  to  examine  his  wounds,  and  finding  no  bones  broken,  but  his  skin  whole  from 
head  to  feet,  “You  must  bray,”  cried  he,  angrily,  “you  must  bray,  must  you!  It  is  a piece  of 
excellent  discretion  to  talk  of  halters  in  the  house  of  a man  whose  father  was  hanged.  What 
counterpart  could  you  expect  to  your  music,  blockhead,  but  a thorough-bass  of  bastinadoes  ? 
Thank  Providence,  sirrah ! that  as  they  gave  you  a dry  benediction  with  a quarter-staff,  they 
did  not  cross  you  with  a cutlass.” 

“ I ha’nt  breath  to  answer  you  at  present,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ but  my  back  and  shoulders 


560 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


speak  enough  for  me.  Pray  let  us  make  the  best  of  our  way  from  this  dreadlul  place, 
and  whene’er  I bray  again  may  I get  such  another  blow.  Yet  1 cannot  help  saying  that 
your  knights-errant  can  betake  themselves  to  their  heels  upon  occasion,  and  leave  their 
trusty  squires  to  be  beaten  like  stock-fish  in  the  midst  of  their  enemies.” 

“ A retreat  is  not  to  be  accounted  a flight,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ for  know,  Sancho, 
that  courage  which  has  not  wisdom  for  its  guide  falls  under  the  name  of  temerity  ; and  the 
rash  man’s  successful  actions  are  rather  owing  to  his  good  fortune  than  to  his  bravery.  I 
own  I did  retire,  but  I deny  that  I fled ; and  in  such  a retreat  I did  but  imitate  many 
valiant  men,  who,  not  to  hazard  their  persons  indiscreetly,  reserved  themselves  for  a more 
fortunate  hour.  Histories  are  full  of  examples  of  this  nature,  which  I do  not  care  to 
relate  at  present,  because  they  would  be  more  tedious  to  me  than  they  could  be  profitable 
to  thee.” 

By  this  time  Don  Quixote  had  helped  Sancho  to  bestride  his  ass,  and  being  himself 
mounted  on  Rozinante,  they  paced  softly  along,  and  got  into  a grove  of  poplar-trees  about 
a quarter  of  a league  from  the  place  where  they  mounted.  Yet  as  softly  as  they  rode,  Sancho 
could  not  help  now  and  then  heaving  up  deep  sighs  and  lamentable  groans.  Don  Quixote  asked 
him  why  he  made  such  a heavy  moan.  Sancho  told  him  that  from  his  head  to  his  feet  he 
felt  such  grievous  pains  that  he  was  ready  to  sink.  “Without  doubt,”  said  Don  Quixote, 
“ the  intenseness  of  thy  torments  is  by  reason  the  staff  with  which  thou  wert  struck  was 
broad  and  long,  and  so  having  fallen  on  certain  parts  of  thy  back,  caused  a contusion  there, 
and  affects  them  all  with  pain ; and  had  it  been  of  a greater  magnitude,  thy  grievances  had 
been  so  much  the  greater.” 

“Truly,”  quoth  Sancho,  “you  have  cleared  that  in  very  pithy  words,  of  which  nobody 

made  any  doubt.  Bless  me  ! was  the  cause  of  my  ailing  so  hard  to  be  guessed,  that  you 

must  tell  me  that  so  much  of  me  was  sore  as  was  hit  by  the  weapon  ? Should  my  ankle-bone 
ache,  and  you  scratch  your  head  till  you  had  found  out  the  cause  of  it,  I would  think  that  some- 
thing ; but  for  you  to  tell  me  that  place  is  sore  where  I was  bruised,  every  fool  could  do  as 
much.  Faith  and  troth,  sir  master  of  mine,  I grow  wiser  and  wiser  every  day  ; I find  you 
are  like  all  the  world,  that  lay  to  heart  nobody’s  harms  but  their  own.  I find  whereabouts  we 
are,  and  what  I am  likely  to  get  by  you  ; for  even  as  you  left  me  now  in  the  lurch,  to  be 
well  belaboured  and  rib-roasted,  and  the  other  day  to  dance  the  caper-galliard  in  the  blanket 
you  wot  of,  so  I must  expect  a hundred  and  a hundred  more  of  these  good  vails  in  your 

service  ; and,  as  the  mischief  has  now  lighted  on  my  shoulders,  next  bout  I look  for  it  to  fly 

at  my  eyes.  A plague  of  my  jolter-head!  I have  been  a fool  and  sot  all  along,  and  am  never 
like  to  be  wiser  while  I live.  Would  it  not  be  better  for  me  to  trudge  home  to  my  wife  and 
children,  and  look  after  my  house  with  that  little  wit  that  Heaven  has  given  me,  without  galloping 
after  your  tail  high  and  low,  through  confounded  cross-roads  and  bye-ways,  and  wicked  and 
crooked  paths  that  the  ungodly  themselves  cannot  find  out  ? And  then  most  commonly  to  have 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


561 

nothing'  to  moisten  one's  weasand  that  is  fitting  for  a Christian  to  drink,  nothing  but  mere 
element  and  dog’s  porridge ; and  nothing  to  stuff  one’s  puddings  that  is  worthy  of  a Catholic 
stomach  ! Then,  after  a man  has  tired  himself  off  his  legs,  when  he  would  be  glad  of  a good 
bed,  to  have  a master  cry,  ‘ Here,  are  you  sleepy?  lie  down,  Mr.  Squire,  your  bed  is  made; 
take  six  foot  of  good  hard  ground  and  measure  your  corpse  there  ; and  if  that  won’t  serve 
you,  take  as  much  more,  and  welcome.  You  are  at  rack  and  manger  ; spare  not,  I beseech 
your  dogship ; there  is  room  enough.’  I should  like  to  lay  hold  of  that  unlucky  son  of 
mischief  that  first  set  people  a-madding  after  this  whim  of  knight-errantry,  or  at  least  the 
first  ninny  -hammer  that  had  so  little  forecast  as  to  turn  squire  to  such  a parcel  of  madmen 

as  were  your  knights-errant in  the  days  of  yore,  I mean ; I am  better  bred  than  to  speak 

ill  of  those  in  our  time ; no,  I honour  them,  since  your  worship  has  taken  up  this  blessed 
calling ; for  you  have  a long  sight,  so  that  no  one  could  out-reach  you ; you  can  see  farther 
into  a mill-stone  than  any.” 

“ I durst  lay  a wager,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  now  thou  art  suffered  to  prate  without 
interruption,  thou  feelest  no  manner  of  pain  in  thy  whole  body.  Pr’ythee  talk  on,  my  child ; 
say  anything  that  comes  uppermost  to  thy  mouth,  or  is  burdensome  to  thy  brain  ; so  it  but 
alleviates  thy  pain,  thy  impertinences  will  rather  please  than  offend  me  ; and  if  thou  hast 
such  a longing  desire  to  be  at  home  with  thy  wife  and  children,  Heaven  forbid  I should 
be  against  it.  Thou  hast  money  of  mine  in  thy  hands  ; see  how  long  it  is  since  we  sallied 
out  last  from  home,  and  cast  up  the  wages  by  the  month,  and  pay  thyself." 

“ An’  it  like  your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ when  I served  my  master  Carrasco,  father 
to  the  bachelor,  your  worship’s  acquaintance,  I had  two  ducats  a month,  besides  my  victuals  : 
I don’t  know  what  you’ll  give  me  ; though  I am  sure  there  is  more  trouble  in  being  squire  to 
a knight-errant  than  in  being  servant  to  a farmer  ; for  truly,  we  that  go  to  plough  and  cart 
in  a farmer’s  service,  though  we  moil  and  sweat  so  a-days  as  not  to  have  a dry  thread  to  our 
backs,  let  the  worst  come  to  the  worst,  are  sure  of  a bellyful  at  night  out  of  the  pot,  and  to 
snore  in  a bed.  But  I don’t  know  when  I have  had  a good  meal’s  meat,  or  a good  night’s 
rest,  in  all  your  service,  unless  it  were  that  short  time  when  we  were  at  Don  Diego’s  house, 
and  when  I made  a feast  on  the  savoury  skimming  of  Camacho’s  cauldron,  and  ate,  drank, 
and  lay  at  Mr.  Basil’s.  All  the  rest  of  my  time  I have  had  my  lodging  on  the  cold  ground, 
and  in  the  open  fields,  subject  to  the  inclemency  of  the  sky,  as  you  call  it ; living  on  the 
rinds  of  cheese,  and  crusts  of  mouldy  bread  ; drinking  sometimes  ditch  water,  sometimes  spring, 
as  we  chanced  to  light  upon  it  in  our  way.” 

“Well,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “I  grant  all  this,  Sancho;  then  how  much  more  dost  thou 
expect  from  me  than  thou  hadst  from  thy  master  Carrasco?” 

“Why,  truly,”  quoth  Sancho,  “if  your  worship  will  pay  me  twelvepence  a month  more 
than  Thomas  Carrasco  gave  me,  I shall  think  it  very  fair,  and  tolerable  wages ; but  then, 

instead  of  the  island  which  you  know  you  promised  me,  I think  you  cannot  in  conscience 

7i 


562 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


give  me  less  than  six-and-thirty  pence  a month  more,  which  will  make  in  all  thirty  reals,  neither 
more  nor  less.” 

“ Very  well,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ let  us  see  then  ; it  is  now  twenty-five  days  since  we 
set  out  from  home — reckon  what  this  comes  to,  according  to  the  wages  thou  hast  allowed 
thyself,  and  be  thy  own  paymaster.” 

“ Oh,  dear  ! ” quoth  Sancho,  “ we  are  quite  out  in  our  account ; for  as  to  the  governor 
of  an  island’s  place,  which  you  promised  to  help  me  to,  we  ought  to  reckon  from  the  time 
you  made  the  promise  to  this  very  day.” 

“Well,  and  pray  how  long  is  it?”  asked  Don  Quixote. 

“If  I remember  rightly,”  quoth  Sancho,  “it  is  about  some  twenty  years  ago,  two  or  three 
days  more  or  less.” 

With  that  Don  Quixote,  hitting  himself  a good  clap  on  the  forehead,  fell  a-laughing  heartily. 
“ Why,”  cried  he,  “ we  have  hardly  been  out  two  months  from  the  very  beginning  of  our 
first  expedition,  and  in  all  the  time  we  were  in  Sierra  Morena,  and  our  whole  progress ; and 
hast  thou  the  impudence  to  affirm  it  is  twenty  years  since  I promised  the  grant  of  the  island  ? 
I am  now  convinced  thou  hast  a mind  to  make  all  the  money  which  thou  hast  of  mine  in  thy 
keeping  go  for  the  payment  of  thy  wages.  If  this  be  thy  meaning,  well  and  good  ; e’en  take 
it,  and  much  good  may  it  do  thee  ; for,  rather  than  be  troubled  any  longer  with  such  a varlet, 
I would  contentedly  see  myself  without  a penny.  But  tell  me,  thou  perverter  of  the  laws  of 
chivalry  that  relate  to  squires,  where  didst  thou  ever  see  or  read  that  any  squire  to  a knight- 
errant  stood  capitulating  with  his  master  as  thou  hast  done  with  me,  for  so  much,  or  so  much 
a month  ? Launch,  unconscionable  wretch,  thou  cut-throat  scoundrel ! launch,  launch,  thou 
base  spirit  of  Mammon,  into  the  vast  ocean  of  their  histories  ; and  if  thou  canst  show  me  a 
precedent  of  any  squire  wrho  ever  dared  to  say,  or  but  to  think,  as  much  as  thou  hast  presumed 
to  tell  me,  then  will  I give  thee  leave  to  affix  it  on  my  forehead,  and  hit  me  four  fillips  on  the 
nose.  Away  then,  pack  off  with  thy  ass  this  moment,  and  get  thee  home,  for  thou  shalt  never 
stay  in  my  service  any  longer.  Oh,  how  much  bread,  how  many  promises,  have  I now  ill 
bestowed  on  thee ! Vile,  grovelling  wretch,  that  hast  more  of  the  beast  than  of  the  man ! 
When  I was  just  going  to  prefer  thee  to  such  a post,  that  in  spite  of  thy  wife  thou  hadst  been 
called  my  lord,  thou  sneakest  away  from  me.  Thou  art  leaving  me,  when  I had  fully  resolved, 
without  any  more  delay,  to  make  thee  lord  of  the  best  island  in  the  world,  sordid  clod  ! Well 

mightest  thou  say  indeed,  that  honey  is  not  for  the  chaps  of  an  ass.  Thou  art  indeed  a 

very  ass;  an  ass  thou  wilt  live,  and  an  ass  thou  wilt  die;  for  I dare  say  thou  wilt  never 
have  sense  enough  while  thou  livest  to  know  thou  art  a brute.” 

While  Don  Quixote  thus  upbraided  and  railed  at  Sancho.  the  poor  fellow,  all  dismayed, 
and  touched  to  the  quick,  beheld  him  with  a wistful  look  ; and  the  tears  standing  in  his  eyes 

for  grief,  “ Good  sweet  sir,”  cried  he,  with  a doleful  and  whining  voice,  “ I confess  I want 

nothing  but  a tail  to  be  a perfect  ass ; if  your  worship  will  be  pleased  but  to  put  me  on  one, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


5^3 

I shall  deem  it  well  placed,  and  be  your  most  faithful  ass  all  the  days  of  my  life  : but  forgive 
me,  I beseech  you,  and  take  pity  on  my  youth.  Consider,  I have  but  a dull  headpiece  of 
my  own ; and  if  my  tongue  runs  at  random  sometimes,  it  is  because  I am  more  fool  than 
knave,  sir.  ‘ Who  errs  and  mends,  to  Heaven  himself  commends.’  ” 

“ I should  wonder  much,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ if  thou  shouldest  not  interlard  thy  discourse 
with  some  pretty  proverb.  Well,  I will  give  thee  my  pardon  for  this  once,  provided  thou 
correct  those  imperfections  that  offend  me,  and  showest  thyself  of  a less  craving  temper. 
Take  heart,  then,  and  let  the  hopes  which  thou  mayest  entertain  of  the  performance  of  my 
promise  raise  in  thee  a nobler  spirit.  The  time  will  come ; do  not  think  it  impossible 
because  delayed.” 

Sancho  promised  to  do  his  best,  though  he  could  not  rely  on  his  own  strength. 

Matters  being  thus  amicably  adjusted,  they  went  into  the  grove,  where  the  Don  laid 
himself  at  the  foot  of  an  elm,  and  his  squire  at  the  foot  of  a beech ; for  every  one  of  those 
trees,  and  such  others,  has  always  a foot,  though  never  a hand.  Sancho  had  but  an  ill  night’s 
rest  of  it,  for  his  bruises  made  his  bones  more  than  ordinarily  sensible  of  the  cold.  As  for 
Don  Quixote,  he  entertained  himself  with  his  usual  imaginations.  However,  they  both  slept, 
and  by  break  of  day  continued  their  journey  towards  the  river  Ebro,  where  they  met — what 
shall  be  told  in  the  next  chapter. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

THE  FAMOUS  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  ENCHANTED  BARQUE. 

FAIR  and  sofdy,  step  by  step,  Don  Quixote  and  his  squire  got,  in  two  days’  time,  to  the 
banks  of  the  river  Ebro,  which  yielded  a very  entertaining  prospect  to  the  knight.  The 
verdure  of  its  banks,  and  the  abounding  plenty  of  the  water,  which,  clear  like  liquid  crystal, 
flowed  gently  along  within  the  spacious  channel,  awaked  a thousand  amorous  chimeras  in  his 
roving  imagination,  and  more  especially  the  thoughts  of  what  he  had  seen  in  the  cave  of 
Montesinos ; for  though  Master  Peter’s  ape  had  assured  him  that  it  was  partly  false  as  well 
as  partly  true,  he  was  rather  inclined  to  believe  it  all  true  ; quite  contrary  to  Sancho,  who 
thought  it  every  tittle  false. 

While  the  knight  went  on  thus  agreeably  amused,  he  spied  a little  boat  without  any  oars 
or  tackle,  moored  by  the  river-side  to  the  stump  of  a tree  ; thereupon  looking  round  about 
him,  and  discovering  nobody,  he  presently  alighted,  and  ordered  Sancho  to  do  the  like,  and 
tie  their  beasts  fast  to  some  of  the  elms  or  willows  thereabouts.  Sancho  asked  him  what  was 
the  meaning  of  all  this. 

“ Thou  art  to  know,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ that  most  certain  this  boat  lies  here  for 
no  other  reason  but  to  invite  me  to  embark  in  it  for  the  relief  of  some  knight,  or  other  person 


DON  QUIXOTE  D£  LA  MANCHA. 


565 


of  high  degree,  that  is  in  great  distress  ; for  thus,  according  to  the  method  of  enc)  antments 
in  the  books  of  chivalry,  when  any  knight  whom  they  protect  happens  to  be  involved  in 
some  very  great  danger,  from  which  none  but  some  other  valorous  knight  can  set  him  free, 
then,  though  they  may  be  two  or  three  thousand  leagues  at  least  distant  from  each  other, 
up  the  magician  snatches  the  auxiliary  champion  in  a cloud,  or  else  provides  him  a boat,  and 
in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,  in  either  vehicle,  through  the  airy  fluid  or  the  liquid  plain,  he 
wafts  him  to  the  place  where  his  assistance  is  wanted.  Just  to  the  same  intent  does  this 
very  barque  lie  here  ; it  is  as  clear  as  the  day ; and,  therefore,  before  it  be  too  late,  Sancho,  tie 
up  Rozinante  and  Dapple,  let  us  commit  ourselves  to  the  guidance  of  Providence ; for 

embark  I will,  though  bare-footed  friars  should  beg  me  to  desist.” 

“Well,  well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “if  I must,  I must.  Since  you  will  every  step  be  running 
into  these— I do  not  know  how  to  call  them — these  confounded  vagaries,  I have  no  more  to 
do  but  to  make  a leg,  and  submit  my  neck  to  the  collar  ; for,  as  the  saying  is,  ‘ Do  as  thy 
master  bid  thee,  though  it  be  to  sit  down  at  his  table.’  But  for  all  that,  discharge  my  con- 
science I must,  and  tell  you  plainly,  that  blind  as  I am,  I can  see  with  half  an  eye  that  it  is  no 
enchanted  barque,  but  some  fisherman’s  boat ; for  there  are  many  in  this  river,  whose  waters 
afford  the  best  shads  in  the  world.” 

This  caution  did  Sancho  give  his  master  while  he  was  tying  the  beasts  to  a tree,  and 
going  to  leave  them  to  the  protection  of  enchanters,  full  sore  against  his  will.  Don  Quixote 
bid  him  not  be  concerned  at  leaving  them  there,  for  the  sage  who  was  to  carry  them 
through  in  a journey  of  such  an  extent  and  longitude  would  be  sure  to  take  care  of  the 
animals. 

“ Nay,  nay,  as  for  that  matter,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I do  not  understand  your  longitude ; I 

never  heard  such  a cramp  word  in  my  born  days.” 

“ Longitude,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ is  the  same  as  length.  I do  not  wonder  that  thou  dost 
not  understand  the  word,  for  thou  art  not  obliged  to  understand  Latin.  Yet  you  shall  have 
some  forward  coxcombs  pretend  to  be  knowing,  when  they  are  ignorant.” 

“Now  the  beasts  are  fast,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho;  “what  is  next  to  be  done?” 

“ Why  now,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ let  us  recommend  ourselves  to  Providence  and 
weigh  anchor,  or,  to  speak  plainly,  embark  and  cut  the  cable.”  With  that,  leaping  in,  and 
Sancho  following,  he  cut  the  rope,  and  so  by  degrees  the  stream  carried  the  boat  from  the  shore. 

Now,  when  Sancho  saw  himself  towards  the  middle  of  the  river,  he  began  to  quake  for 
fear ; but  nothing  grieved  his  heart  so  much  as  to  hear  Dapple  bray,  and  to  see  Rozinante 
struggle  to  get  loose.  “ Sir,”  quoth  he,  “ hark  how  my  poor  Dapple  brays,  to  bemoan  our 
leaving  of  him  ; and  see  how  poor  Rozinante  tugs  hard  to  break  his  bridle,  and  is  even  wild  to 
throw  himself  after  us.  Alack  and  alack  ! my  poor  dear  friends,  peace  be  with  you  where  you 

are,  and  when  this  mad  freak,  the  cause  of  our  doleful  parting,  is  ended  in  repentance,  may 

we  be  brought  back  to  your  sweet  company  again  !” 


500 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


This  said,  he  fell  a-blubbering,  and  set  up  such  a howl,  that  Don  Quixote  had  no  patience 
with  him,  but  looking  angrily  on  him,  “ What  dost  fear,”  cried  he,  “ thou  great  white-livered 
calf  ? What  dost  thou  cry  for  ? Who  pursues  thee  ? Who  hurts  thee,  thou  dastardly  craven, 
thou  cowardly  mouse,  thou  soul  of  a milk-sop,  thou  heart  of  butter  ? Dost  want  for  anything, 
base,  unsatisfied  wretch  ? What  wouldst  thou  say,  wert  thou  to  climb  bare-footed  the  rugged 
Riphean  mountains  ? thou  that  sittest  here  in  state  like  an  archduke,  plenty  and  delight  on 
each  side  of  thee,  while  thou  glidest  gently  down  the  calm  current  of  this  delightful  river,  which 
will  soon  convey  us  into  the  main  ocean.  We  have  already  flowed  down  some  seven  or  eight 
hundred  leagues.  Had  I but  an  astrolabe  here  to  take  the  altitude  of  the  pole,  I could  easily 
tell  thee  how  far  we  have  proceeded  to  an  inch  ; though  either  I know  but  little,  or  we  have 
just  passed,  or  shall  presently  pass,  the  equinoctial  line,  that  divides  and  cuts  the  two  opposite 
poles  at  equal  distances.” 

“And  when  we  come  to  this  same  line  you  speak  of,”  quoth  Sancho,  “how  far  have  we 
gone  then  ?” 

“ A mighty  way,”  answered  Don  Quixote.  “ When  we  come  under  the  line  I spoke  of, 
we  shall  have  measured  the  other  half  of  the  terraqueous  globe,  which,  according  to  the  system 
and  computation  of  Ptolemy,  who  was  the  greatest  cosmographer  in  the  world,  contains  three 
hundred  and  sixty  degrees.” 

“Bless  me!”  quoth  Sancho,  “you  have  brought  me  now  a notable  fellow  to  be  your 
voucher,  goodman  Tollme,  with  his  amputation  and  cistern,  and  the  rest  of  your  gibberish.” 

Don  Quixote  smiled  at  Sancho’s  blunders,  and  going  on,  “ The  Spaniards,”  said  he,  “ and  all 
those  that  embark  at  Cadiz  for  the  East  Indies,  to  know  whether  they  have  passed  the  equi- 
noctial line,  according  to  an  observation  that  has  been  often  experienced,  need  do  no  more  than 
look  whether  there  be  any  vermin  left  alive  among  the  ship’s  crew ; for  if  they  have  passed  it, 
not  one  is  to  be  found  in  the  ship,  though  they  would  give  his  weight  in  gold  for  him.  Look, 
therefore,  Sancho,  and  if  thou  findest  any  such  still  creeping  about  thee,  then  we  have  not  yet 
passed  the  line  ; but  if  thou  dost  not,  then  we  have  surely  passed  it.” 

“ Very  little  do  I believe  of  all  this,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ However,  I will  do  as  you  bid 
me.  But  hark  you  me,  sir,  now  I think  on  it  again,  where  is  the  need  of  trying  these  quirks  ? 

do  not  I see  with  my  two  eyes  that  we  are  not  five  rods’  length  from  the  shore  ? Look  you, 

there  stands  Rozinante  and  Dapple  upon  the  very  spot  where  we  left  them  ; and  now  I look 
closely  into  the  matter,  I will  take  my  corporal  oath  that  we  move  no  faster  than  a snail  can 
gallop,  or  an  ant  can  trot.” 

“No  more  words,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ but  make  the  experiment  as  I bid  you,  and  let  the 
rest  alone.  Thou  dost  not  know  what  belongs  to  colures,  lines,  parallels,  zodiacs,  ecliptics,  poles, 
solstices,  equinoctials,  planets,  signs,  points,  and  measures,  of  which  the  spheres  celestial  and 
terrestrial  are  composed  ; for  didst  thou  know  all  these  things,  or  some  of  them  at  least,  thou 

mightest  plainly  perceive  what  parallels  we  have  cut,  what  signs  we  have  passed,  and  what 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


5 67 


constellations  we  have  left,  and  are  now  leaving  behind  us.  Therefore  I would  wish  thee 
once  again  to  search  thyself ; for  I cannot  believe  but  thou  art  as  clear  from  vermin  as  a sheet 
of  white  paper.” 

Thereupon  Sancho,  advancing  his  hand  very  gingerly  towards  the  left  side  of  his  neck, 
after  he  had  groped  awhile,  lifted  up  his  head,  and,  staring  in  his  master’s  face,  “ Look  you, 
sir,”  quoth  he,  pulling  out  something,  “ either  your  rule  is  not  worth  this,  or  we  are  many  a lair 
league  from  the  place  you  spoke  of.” 

“ How  !”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “hast  thou  found  something  then,  Sancho?” 

“ Ay,  marry  have  I,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ and  more  things  than  one  too.”  And  so  saying,  he 
shook  and  snapped  his  fingers,  and  then  washed  his  whole  hand  in  the  river,  down  whose 
stream  the  boat  drove  gently  along,  without  being  moved  by  any  secret  influence  or  hidden 
enchantment,  but  only  by  the  help  of  the  current,  hitherto  calm  and  smooth. 

By  this  time  they  descried  two  great  water-mills  in  the  middle  of  the  river,  which  Don 
Quixote  no  sooner  spied,  but,  calling  to  his  squire,  “Look,  look,  my  Sancho!”  cried  he, 
“ seest  thou  yon  city  or  castle  there  ? this  is  the  place  where  some  knight  lies  in  distress, 
or  some  queen  or  princess  is  detained,  for  whose  succour  I am  conveyed  hither.” 

“Whatever  do  you  mean  with  your  city  or  castle?”  cried  Sancho.  “ Bless  me!  sir,  do  not 
you  see  as  plain  as  the  nose  on  your  face,  they  are  nothing  but  water-mills  in  the  midst  of 
the  river,  to  grind  corn  ?” 

“ Peace,  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote ; “ they  look  like  water-mills,  I grant  you,  but  they 
are  no  such  things.  How  often  have  I not  told  thee  already  do  these  magicians  change  and 
overturn  everything  as  they  please  ? not  that  they  can  change  their  very  being,  but  they 
disguise  and  alter  the  appearances  of  them  ; of  which  we  have  an  instance  in  the  unhappy 
transformation  of  Dulcinea,  the  only  refuge  of  my  hope.” 

The  boat  being  now  got  into  the  very  strength  of  the  stream,  began  to  move  less  slowly 
than  it  did  before.  The  people  in  the  mills,  perceiving  the  boat  to  come  adrift  full  upon 
the  mill-wheels,  came  running  out  with  their  long  poles  to  stop  it ; and,  as  their  faces  and 
clothes  were  powdered  all  over  with  meal-dust,  they  made  a very  odd  appearance.  “ So  ho  ! 
there,”  cried  they  as  loud  as  they  could  bawl ; “ what  is  in  the  fellows  ? are  ye  mad  in  the 
boat  there  ? Hold ! you  will  be  drowned,  or  ground  to  pieces  by  the  mill-wheels.” 

Don  Quixote,  having  cast  his  eyes  upon  the  millers,  “ Did  I not  tell  thee,  Sancho,”  said 
he,  “ that  we  should  arrive  where  I must  exert  the  strength  of  my  arm  ? Look  what  hang- 
dogs, what  horrid  wretches,  come  forth  to  make  head  against  me ! how  many  hobgoblins  oppose 
my  passage ! do  but  see  what  deformed  physiognomies  they  have  ! mere  bugbears  ! But  I 
shall  make  ye  know,  scoundrels,  how  insignificant  all  your  efforts  must  prove.”  Then,  standing 
ud  in  the  boat,  he  began  to  threaten  the  millers  in  a haughty  tone.  “Ye  paltry  slaves,” 
cried  he,  “ base  and  ill-advised  scum  of  the  world,  release  instantly  the  captive  person  who 
is  injuriously  detained  and  oppressed  within  your  castle  or  prison,  be  they  of  high  or  low 


5^-8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


degree;  for  I am  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  otherwise  called  the  Knight  of  the  Lions, 
for  whom  the  happy  achievement  of  this  adventure  is  reserved  by  the  decree  of  Heaven.” 
This  said,  he  unsheathed  his  sword,  and  began  to  fence  with  the  air,  as  if  he  had  been 
already  engaging  the  millers ; who,  hearing,  but  not  understanding,  his  mad  words,  stood 
ready  with  their  poles  to  stop  the  boat,  which  was  now  near  the  mill-dam,  and  just 

entering  the  rapid  stream  and  narrow  channel  of  the  wheels. 

In  the  meantime  Sancho  was  devoutly  fallen  on  his  knees,  praying  Heaven  for  a happy 
deliverance  out  of  this  mighty  plunge  but  this  one  time.  And  indeed  his  prayers  met 
with  pretty  good  success ; for  the  millers  so  bestirred  themselves  with  their  poles  that  they 
stopped  the  boat,  yet  not  so  cleverly  but  they  overset  it,  tipping  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho 
over  into  the  river.  It  was  well  for  the  knight  that  he  could  swim  like  a duck  ; and 

yet  the  weight  of  his  armour  sank  him  twice  to  the  bottom ; and  had  it  not  been  for 
the  millers  who  jumped  into  the  water,  and  made  a shift  to  pull  out  both  the  master  and 

the  man,  in  a manner  craning  them  up,  there  had  been  an  end  of  them  both. 

When  they  were  both  hauled  ashore,  more  over-drenched  than  thirsty,  Sancho  betook 
himself  to  his  knees  again,  and,  with  uplifted  hands  and  eyes,  made  a long  and  hearty  prayer, 
that  Heaven  might  keep  him  from  this  time  forwards  clear  of  his  master’s  rash  adventures. 

And  now  came  the  fishermen  who  owned  the  boat,  and,  finding  it  broken  to  pieces,  fell 
upon  Sancho,  and  began  to  strip  him,  demanding  satisfaction  both  of  him  and  his  master  for 
the  loss  of  their  barque.  The  knight,  with  a great  deal  of  gravity  and  unconcern,  as  if  he  had 
done  no  manner  of  harm,  told  both  the  millers  and  the  fishermen  that  he  was  ready  to  pay 
for  the  boat,  provided  they  would  fairly  surrender  the  persons  that  were  detained  unjustly 
in  their  castle. 

“What  persons,  or  what  castle,  you  mad  oaf?”  said  one  of  the  millers.  “Marry,  would 
you  carry  away  the  folk  that  come  to  grind  their  corn  at  our  mills  ?” 

“ Well,”  said  Don  Quixote  to  himself,  “ man  had  as  good  preach  to  a stone  wall  as  to 
expect  to  persuade  with  entreaties  such  dregs  of  human  kind  to  do  a good  and  generous 
action.  Two  sage  enchanters  certainly  clash  in  this  adventure,  and  the  one  thwarts  the  other. 
One  provided  me  a barque,  the  other  overwhelmed  me  in  it.  Heaven  send  us  better  times  ! 
There  is  nothing  but  plotting  and  counter-plotting,  undermining  and  counter-mining  in  this 
world.  Well,  I can  do  no  more.”  Then  raising  his  voice,  and  casting  a fixed  eye  on  the  water- 
mills, “My  dear  friends,”  cried  he,  “whoever  you  are  that  are  immured  in  this  prison,  pardon 
me,  I beseech  ye ; for  so  my  ill  fate  and  yours  ordains,  that  I cannot  free  you  from  your 
confinement  : the  adventure  is  reserved  for  some  other  knight.” 

This  said,  he  came  to  an  agreement  with  the  fishermen,  and  ordered  Sancho  to  pay  them 
fifty  reals  for  the  boat.  Sancho  pulled  out  the  money  with  a very  ill  will,  and  parted  with  it 
with  a worse,  muttering  between  his  teeth  that  two  voyages  like  that  would  sink  their  whole 
stock. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


j?o 

The  fishermen  and  the  millers  could  not  forbear  wondering  at  two  such  figures  of  human 
offspring,  who  neither  spoke  nor  acted  like  the  rest  of  mankind  ; for  they  could  not  so  much 
as  guess  what  Don  Quixote  meant  by  all  his  extravagant  speeches.  So,  taking  them  for 
madmen,  they  left  them,  and  went,  the  millers  to  their  mills,  and  the  fishermen  to  their  huts. 
Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  returned  to  their  beasts  like  a couple  of  as  senseless  animals,  and 
thus  ended  the  adventure  of  the  enchanted  barque. 


Dir-  A kill 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  WITH  THE  FAIR  HUNTRESS. 

WITH  wet  bodies  and  melancholy  minds,  the  knight  and  squire  went  back  to 
Rozinante  and  Dapple ; though  Sancho  was  the  more  cast  down,  and  out  of 
sorts  of  the  two  ; for  it  grieved  him  to  the  very  soul  to  see  the  money  dwindle,  being  as 
chary  of  that  as  of  his  heart’s  blood,  or  the  apples  of  his  eyes.  To  be  short,  to  horse  they 
went,  without  speaking  one  word  to  each  other,  and  left  the  famous  river ; Don  Quixote 
buried  in  his  amorous  thoughts,  and  Sancho  in  those  of  his  preferment. 

It  happened  that  the  next  day  about  sunset,  as  they  were  coming  out  of  a wood,  Don 
Quixote  cast  his  eyes  round  a verdant  meadow,  and  at  the  farther  end  of  it  descried  a company, 
whom,  upon  a nearer  view,  he  judged  to  be  persons  of  quality,  that  were  taking  the  diversion 
of  hawking.  Approaching  nearer  yet,  he  observed  among  them  a very  fine  lady  upon  a white 
pacing  mare,  in  green  trappings,  and  a saddle-cloth  of  silver.  The  lady  herself  was  dressed 
in  green,  so  rich  and  so  gay,  that  nothing  could  be  finer.  She  rode  with  a goshawk  on  her 
left  fist,  by  which  Don  Quixote  judged  her  to  be  of  quality,  and  mistress  of  the  train  that 
attended ; as  indeed  she  was.  Thereupon  calling  to  his  squire,  “ Son  Sancho,”  cried  he, 
“run  and  tell  that  lady  on  the  palfrey  that  I,  the  Knight  of  the  Lions,  humbly  salute  her 


572 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


highness  ; and  that  if  she  pleases  to  give  me  leave,  I should  be  proud  to  have  the  honour  of 
waiting  on  her,  and  kissing  her  fair  hands.  But  take  special  care,  Sancho,  how  thou  deliverest 
thy  message,  and  be  sure  do  not  lard  my  compliments  with  any  of  thy  proverbs.” 

“Why  this  to  me?'  quoth  Sancho.  “Marry,  you  need  not  talk  of  larding,  as  if  I had 
never  went  ambassador  before  to  a high  and  mighty  dame.” 

“ 1 do  not  know  that  ever  thou  didst,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ at  least  on  my  account, 
unless  it  were  when  I sent  thee  to  Dulcinea.” 

“It  may  be  so,”  quoth  Sancho;  “but  a good  paymaster  needs  no  surety;  and  where 
there  is  plenty,  the  guests  cannot  be  empty.  That  is  to  say,  I need  none  of  your  telling  nor 
tutoring  about  that  matter ; for,  as  silly  as  I look,  I know  something  of  everything.” 

“Well,  well,  go,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “and  Heaven  inspire  and  guide  thee.” 

Sancho  put  on,  forcing  Dapple  from  his  old  pace  to  a gallop  ; and,  approaching  the  fair 
huntress,  he  alighted,  and,  falling  on  his  knees,  “ Fair  lady,”  quoth  he,  “ that  knight  yonder, 
called  the  Knight  of  the  Lions,  is  my  master;  I am  his  squire,  Sancho  Panza  by  name.  This 
same  Knight  of  the  Lions,  who  but  the  other  day  was  called  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure, 
has  sent  me  to  tell  you,  that  so  please  your  worship’s  grace  to  give  him  leave,  with  your  good 
liking,  to  do  as  he  has  a mind,  which,  as  he  says,  and  as  I believe,  is  only  to  serve  your  high- 
flown  beauty,  and  be  your  eternal  vassal,  you  may  chance  to  do  a thing  that  would  be  for  your 
own  good,  and  he  would  take  it  for  a hugeous  kindness  at  your  hands.” 

“Indeed,  honest  squire,”  said  the  lady,  “ you  have  acquitted  yourself  of  your  charge  with 
all  the  graceful  circumstances  which  such  an  embassy  requires.  Rise,  pray  rise,  for  it  is  by 
no  means  fit  the  squire  to  so  great  a knight  as  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  to 
whose  name  and  merit  we  are  no  strangers,  should  remain  on  his  knees.  Rise  then,  and 

desire  your  master  by  all  means  to  honour  us  with  his  company,  that  my  lord  duke  and 

I may  pay  him  our  respects  at  a house  we  have  hard  by.” 

Sancho  got  up,  no  less  amazed  at  the  lady’s  beauty  than  at  her  affability,  but  much 
more  because  she  told  him  they  were  no  strangers  to  the  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure. 

“ Pray,”  said  the  duchess,  whose  particular  title  we  do  not  yet  know,  “ is  not  this  master  of 
your’s  the  person  whose  history  came  out  in  print  by  the  name  of  ‘ The  Renowned  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,’  the  mistress  of  whose  affections  is  a certain  lady  called  Dulcinea  del  Toboso?” 

“ The  very  same,  an ’t  please  your  worship,”  said  Sancho ; “ and  that  squire  of  his  that  is 
or  should  be  in  the  book,  Sancho  Panza  by  name,  is  my  own  self,  if  I was  not  changed  in 
my  cradle  ; I mean  changed  in  the  press.” 

“ I am  mighty  glad  to  hear  all  this,”  said  the  duchess.  “ Go  then,  friend  Panza,  and  tell 

your  master  that  I congratulate  him  upon  his  arrival  in  our  territories,  to  which  he  is  welcome, 

and  assure  him  from  me,  that  this  is  the  most  agreeable  news  I could  possibly  have  heard.” 

Sancho,  overjoyed  with  this  gracious  answer,  returned  to  his  master,  to  whom  he  repeated 
all  that  the  great  lady  had  said  to  him,  praising,  in  his  clownish  phrase,  her  beauty  and  courtesv. 


r>s5r“«9#ivt 

In'51 


•'WnTm-T- 

K.P12AHI 


j&zSL 

IP 

“Don  Quixote  descried  a company,  whom,  upon  a nearer  view,  he  judged  to  be  persons  of  quality.”—  *.  t-r. 


574 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Don  Quixote,  pleased  with  this  good  beginning,  seated  himself  handsomely  in  the  saddle, 
fixed  his  toes  in  his  stirrups,  set  the  beaver  of  his  helmet  as  he  thought  best  became  his  face, 
roused  up  Rozinante’s  mettle,  and  with  a graceful  assurance  moved  forwards  to  kiss  the 
duchess’s  hand. 

And  now  Don  Quixote  drew  nigh  with  his  vizor  up;  and  Sancho  seeing  him  offer  to 
alight,  made  all  the  haste  he  could  to  be  ready  to  hold  his  stirrup  : but  as  ill-luck  would 
have  it,  as  he  was  throwing  his  leg  over  his  pack-saddle  to  get  off,  he  entangled  his  foot  so 
strangely  in  the  rope  that  served  him  instead  of  a stirrup,  that  not  being  able  to  get  it  out, 

he  hung  by  the  heel  with  his  nose  to  the  ground.  On  the  other  side,  Don  Quixote,  who  was 

used  to  have  his  stirrup  held  when  he  dismounted,  thinking  Sancho  had  hold  of  it  already, 
lifted  up  his  right  leg  over  the  saddle  to  alight ; but  as  it  happened  to  be  ill-girt,  down  he 

brought  it  with  himself  to  the  ground,  confounded  with  shame,  and  muttering  between  his 

teeth  many  a hearty  curse  against  Sancho,  who  was  all  the  while  with  his  foot  in  the  stocks. 
The  duke  seeing  them  in  that  condition,  ordered  some  of  his  people  to  help  them  ; and  they 
raised  Don  Quixote,  who  was  in  no  very  good  case  with  his  fall  ; however,  limping  as  well 
as  he  could,  he  went  to  pay  his  duty  to  the  lady,  and  would  have  fallen  on  his  knees  at  her 

horse’s  feet  : but  the  duke  alighting,  would  by  no  means  permit  it ; and  embracing  Don 

Quixote,  “ I am  sorry,”  said  he,  “Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure,  that  such  a mischance  should 
happen  to  you  at  your  first  appearance  in  my  territories,  but  the  negligence  of  squires  is 
often  the  cause  of  worse  accidents.” 

“Most  generous  prince!”  said  Don  Quixote,  “I  can  think  nothing  bad  that  could  befall 
me  here,  since  I have  had  the  happiness  of  seeing  your  grace  : for  though  I had  fallen  low 

as  the  very  centre,  the  glory  of  this  interview  would  raise  me  up  again.  My  squire  indeed — 

a vengeance  seize  him  for  it ! — is  much  more  apt  to  give  his  saucy,  idle  tongue  liberty,  than  to 
gird  a saddle  well  ; but  prostrate  or  erect,  on  horseback  or  on  foot,  in  any  posture  I shall 
always  be  at  your  grace’s  command,  and  no  less  at  her  grace’s,  your  worthy  consort’s  service. 
Worthy  did  I say  ? yes,  she  is  worthy  to  be  called  the  Queen  of  Beauty  and  Sovereign  Lady 
of  all  Courtesy.” 

“ Pardon  me  there,”  said  the  duke,  “ noble  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ; where  the  peer- 
less  Dulcinea  is  remembered,  the  praise  of  all  other  beauties  ought  to  be  forgot.” 

Sancho  was  now  got  clear  of  the  noose,  and  standing  near  the  duchess,  “ An ’t  please 
your  worship’s  highness,”  quoth  he,  before  his  master  could  answer,  “ it  cannot  be  denied, 

nay,  I dare  vouch  it  in  any  ground  in  Spain,  that  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  is  very 
handsome  and  fair  : but,  where  we  least  think,  there  starts  the  hare.  I have  heard  your 

great  scholards  say,  that  she  you  call  Dame  Nature  is  like  a potter,  and  he  that  makes  one 
handsome  pipkin  may  make  two  or  three  hundred.  And  so,  do  ye  see,  you  may  understand 

by  this,  that  my  lady  duchess  here  does  not  a jot  come  short  of  my  Lady  Dulcinea.” 

Don  Quixote,  upon  this,  addressing  himself  to  the  duchess,  “ Your  grace  must  know,” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


5 75 

said  he.  “ that  no  knight-errant  ever  had  such  an  eternal  babbler,  such  a bundle  of  conceit  for 
a squire,  as  I have  ; and  if  I have  the  honour  to  continue  for  some  time  in  your  service,  your 
grace  will  find  it  true.” 

“ I am  glad,”  answered  the  duchess,  “ that  honest  Sancho  has  his  conceits,  it  is  a shrewd 
sign  he  is  wise  ; for  merry  conceits,  you  know,  sir,  are  not  the  offspring  of  a dull  brain,  and 
therefore  if  Sancho  be  jovial  and  jocose,  I will  warrant  him  also  a man  of  sense.” 

“ And  a prater,  madam,”  added  Don  Quixote. 

“ So  much  the  better,”  said  the  duke ; “ for  a man  that  talks  well  can  never  talk  too 
much.  But  not  to  lose  our  time  here,  come  on,  Sir  Knight  of  the  Woful  Figure 

“Knight  of  the  Lions,  your  highness  should  say,”  quoth  Sancho:  “the  Woful  Figure  is 
out  of  date,  and  so  pray  let  the  lions  come  in  play.” 

“ Well  then,”  said  the  duke,  “ I entreat  the  Knight  of  the  Lions  to  vouchsafe  us  his 
presence  at  a castle  I have  hard  by,  where  he  shall  find  such  entertainment  as  is  justly  due  to 
so  eminent  a personage,  such  honours  as  the  duchess  and  myself  are  wont  to  pay  all  knights- 
errant  that  travel  this  way.” 

Sancho  having  by  this  got  Rozinante  ready,  and  girdled  the  saddle  tight,  Don  Quixote 
mounted  his  steed,  and  the  duke  a stately  horse  of  his  own ; and  the  duchess  riding 
between  them  both,  they  moved  towards  the  castle  : she  desiring  that  Sancho  might  always 
attend  near  her,  for  she  was  extremely  taken  with  his  notable  sayings. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 

WHICH  TREATS  OF  MANY  AND  GREAT  MAI1ERS. 

SANC'HO  was  overjoyed  to  find  himself  so  much  in  the  duchess’s  favour,  flattering 
himself  that  he  should  fare  no  worse  at  her  castle  than  he  had  done  at  Don  Diegos 
and  Basil’s  houses;  for  he  was  ever  a cordial  friend  to  a plentiful  way  of  living,  and  therefore 
never  failed  to  take  such  opportunities  by  the  foretop  wherever  he  met  them.  Now  the 
history  tells  us,  that  before  they  got  to  the  castle,  the  duke  rode  away  from  them,  to  instruct 
his  servants  how  to  behave  themselves  toward  Don  Quixote  ; so  that  no  sooner  did  the  knight 
come  near  the  gates,  but  he  was  met  by  two  of  the  duke’s  lacqueys  or  grooms  in  long  vests 
like  night-gowns,  of  fine  crimson  satin.  These  suddenly  took  him  in  their  arms,  and  lifting 
him  from  his  horse  without  any  further  ceremony,  “Go,  great  and  mighty  sir,”  said  they, 
“ and  help  my  lady  duchess  down. 

Thereupon  Don  Quixote  went  and  offered  to  do  it;  and  many  compliments,  and  much 
ceremony  passed  on  both  sides : but  in  conclusion,  the  duchess’s  earnestness  prevailed ; for 
she  would  not  alight  from  her  palfrey  but  in  the  arms  of  her  husband,  excusing  herself  from 
incommoding  so  great  a knight  with  so  insignificant  a burden.  With  that  the  duke  took  her  down 


koxcro; 


ffsiS'ffifi 


said  they,  * and  help  my  lady  duchess  down.’  ” — p.  576, 


Jk 

m 

1 

Hi 

ur 

■ 

i 

i 1 

p| 

III  m 

III 

wwvi , x"%i 

IHI1 

gin>.  1 

1 'HSl 

KtsasSMI 

-^^r-?l|g£T  Pil 

pwflp  ui||f|| 

msm 

iiHlilii|r 

]llM|jH 

!•..•>  ' iMBr 

y yw«d«\».  * ■»  - 

578 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


And  now,  being  entered  into  a large  court-yard,  there  came  two  beautiful  damsels,  who 
threw  a long  mantle  of  fine  scarlet  over  Don  Quixote’s  shoulders.  In  an  instant,  all  the 
galleries  about  the  court-yard  were  crowded  with  men  and  women,  the  domestics  of  the  duke, 
who  cried  out,  “Welcome,  welcome,  the  flower  and  cream  of  knight-errantry!” 

Then  most,  if  not  all  of  them,  sprinkled  whole  bottles  of  sweet  water  upon  Don  Quixote, 
the  duke,  and  the  duchess  : all  which  agreeably  surprised  the  Don,  and  this  was  indeed  the 
first  day  he  knew  and  firmly  believed  himself  to  be  a real  knight-errant,  and  that  his  knight- 
hood "was  more  than  fancy. 

Sancho  -was  so  transported,  that  he  even  forsook  his  beloved  Dapple,  to  keep  close  to  the 
duchess,  and  entered  the  castle  with  the  company ; but  his  conscience  flying  in  his  face  for  leaving 
that  dear  companion,  he  went  to  a reverend  old  waiting-woman,  of  the  duchess’s  retinue,  and 
whispering  her  in  the  ear,  “ Mrs.  Gonsalez,  or  Mrs.  pray,  forsooth,  may  I crave  your  name  ?” 

“ Donna  Rodriguez  de  Grijalva  is  my  name,”  said  the  old  duenna ; “ what  is  your  business 
with  me,  friend  ?” 

“ Pray  now,  mistress,  do  so  much  as  go  out  at  the  castle  gate,  where  you  will  find 
a dapple  ass  of  mine;  see  him  put  into  the  stable,  or  else  put  him  in  yourself;  for,  poor  thing! 
it  is  main  fearful  and  timorsome,  and  cannot  abide  to  be  alone  in  a strange  place.” 

“ If  the  master,”  said  she,  pettishly,  “ has  no  more  manners  than  the  man,  we  shall  have  a fine 
time  on ’t.  Get  you  gone,  you  saucy  jack.  I would  have  you  to  know  that  gentlewomen  like  me 
are  not  used  to  such  drudgeries.” 

“Don’t  take  pepper  in  your  nose  at  it,”  replied  Sancho;  “as  good  as  you  have  done  it. 
I have  heard  my  master  say  (and  he  knows  all  the  histories  in  the  world),  that  when  Sir 
Lancelot  came  out  of  Britain,  damsels  looked  after  him,  and  waiting-women  after  his  horse.” 

“ Hark  you,  friend,”  quoth  the  waiting- woman  ; “ if  you  be  a buffoon,  keep  your  stuff  for  those 
chapmen  that  will  bid  you  fairer.  I would  not  give  a fig  for  all  the  jests  in  your  budget.” 

“ Well  enough  yet,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ and  a fig  for  you  too,  an’  you  go  to  that.  Adad  ! should 
I take  thee  for  a fig,  I might  be  sure  of  a ripe  one  ! Your  fig  is  rotten  ripe,  forsooth  ; say  no  more  : 
if  sixty  is  the  game,  you  are  a peep  out.” 

“You  rascal,”  cried  the  waiting-woman,  in  a chafe,  “whether  I am  old  or  no,  Heaven  best 
knows  ; I shall  not  stand  to  give  an  account  to  such  a ragamuffin  as  thou  !” 

She  spoke  this  so  loud  that  the  duchess  overheard  her,  and,  seeing  the  woman  so  altered,  and 
as  red  as  fire,  asked  what  was  the  matter. 

“Why,  madam,  said  the  waiting-woman,  “here  is  a fellow  would  have  me  put  his  ass  in  the 
stable,  telling  me  an  idle  story  of  ladies  that  looked  after  one  Lancelot,  and  waiting- women  after  his 
horse  ; and,  because  I won’t  be  his  ostler,  he  very  civilly  calls  me  old.” 

“Old!”  said  the  duchess;  “that  is  an  affront  no  woman  can  well  bear.  You  are  mistaken, 
honest  Sancho,  Rodriguez  is  very  young  ; and  the  long  veil  she  wears  is  more  for  authority  and 
fashion-sake  than  upon  account  of  her  years.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


579 


“ May  there  be  never  a good  one  in  all  those  I have  to  live;  quoth  Sancho,  “ if  I meant  her  1 
any  harm;  only  I have  such  a natural  love  for  my  ass,  an ’t  like  your  worship,  that  I thought  I could 
not  recommend  the  poor  tit  to  a more  charitable  body  than  this  same  Madam  Rodriguez.” 

« Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  with  a sour  look,  “ does  this  talk  befit  this  place  ? Do  you  know 
where  you  are  ? ” 

“ Sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ every  man  must  tell  his  wants,  be  he  where  he  will.  Here  I bethought 
myself  of  Dapple,  and  here  I spoke  of  him.  Had  I called  him  to  mind  in  the  stable,  I would  have 
spoken  of  him  there.” 

“ Sancho  has  reason  on  his  side,”  said  the  duke,  “ and  nobody  ought  to  chide  him  for  it. 
Dapple  shall  have  as  much  provender  as  he  can  eat,  and  be  used  as  well  as  Sancho  himself.” 

These  small  jars  being  over,  which  yielded  diversion  to  all  the  company  except  Don  Quixote, 
he  was  led  up  a stately  staircase,  and  then  into  a noble  hall,  sumptuously  hung  with  rich  gold 
brocade.  There  his  armour  was  taken  off  by  six  young  damsels,  all  of  them  fully  instructed  by  the 
duke  and  duchess  how  to  behave  themselves  so  towards  Don  Quixote,  that  he  might  look  on  his 
entertainment  as  conformable  to  those  which  the  famous  knights-errant  received  of  old. 

When  he  was  unarmed  he  appeared  in  his  close  breeches  and  chamois  doublet,  raw-boned  and 
meagre,  tall  and  lanky,  with  a pair  of  lantern  jaws,  that  met  in  the  middle  of  his  mouth ; in  short, 
he  made  so  very  odd  a figure,  that,  notwithstanding  the  strict  injunction  the  duke  had  laid  on  the 
young  females  who  waited  on  him  to  stifle  their  laughter,  they  were  hardly  able  to  contain.  They 
desired  he  would  dress  in  the  clothes  they  brought  him ; and,  retiring  to  an  adjacent  chamber,  he 
locked  himself  up  with  the  squire,  and  then  he  began  to  take  him  to  task. 

“Now,”  said  he,  “modern  buffoon  and  jolter-head  of  old,  what  canst  thou  say  for  thyself? 
Where  learned  you  to  abuse  such  a venerable  gentlewoman,  one  so  worthy  of  respect,  as 
Donna  Rodriguez  ? Was  that  a proper  time  to  think  of  your  Dapple  ? or  can  you  think  persons  of 
quality,  who  nobly  entertain  the  masters,  forget  to  provide  for  their  beasts  ? For  Heaven’s  sake, 
Sancho,  mend  thy  behaviour,  and  do  not  betray  thy  home-spun  breeding,  lest  thou  be  thought  a 
scandal  to  thy  master.  Dost  not  thou  know,  saucy  rustic,  that  the  world  often  makes  an  estimate  of 
the  master’s  discretion  by  that  of  his  servant,  and  that  one  of  the  most  considerable  advantages  the 
great  have  over  their  inferiors  is  to  have  servants  as  good  as  themselves  ? Art  thou  not  sensible, 
pitiful  fellow  as  thou  art,  the  more  unhappy  I,  that  if  they  find  thee  a gross  clown,  or  a mad  buffoon, 
they  will  take  me  for  some  hedge-knight,  or  a paltry  shifting  rook  ? Pr’ythee,  therefore,  dear 
Sancho,  shun  these  inconveniences  ; for  he  that  aims  too  much  at  jests  and  drolling  is  apt  to  trip 
and  tumble,  and  is  at  last  despised  as  an  insipid,  ridiculous  buffoon.  Then  curb  thy  tongue,  think 
well,  and  ponder  thy  words  before  they  get  loose  ; we  are  come  to  a place  whence,  by  the  assistance 
of  Heaven,  and  the  force  of  this  arm,  we  may  depart  better  five  to  one  in  fortune  and  reputation.” 

Sancho  promised  to  behave  himself  better  for  the  future,  and  to  sew  up  his  mouth,  or  bite  out 
his  tongue,  rather  than  speak  one  word  which  was  not  duly  considered,  and  to  the  purpose,  so  that 
his  master  need  not  fear  any  one  should  find  out  what  they  were. 


580 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Don  Quixote  then  dressed  himself,  put  on  his  belt  and  sword,  threw  his  scarlet  cloak  over  his 
shoulders,  and  clapped  on  a monteer  cap  of  green  velvet,  which  had  been  left  him  by  the  damsels. 
I hus  accoutred,  he  entered  the  state-room,  where  he  found  the  damsels  ranged  in  two  rows, 
and  immediately  twelve  pages  came  to  conduct  him  to  supper,  letting  him  know  that  the  duke 
and  duchess  expected  him.  Accordingly  they  led  him  in  great  pomp,  some  walking  before 
and  some  behind,  into  another  room,  where  a table  was  magnificently  set  out  for  four  people. 

As  soon  as  he  approached,  the  duke  and  the  duchess  came  as  far  as  the  door  to  receive  him, 
and  with  them  a grave  clergyman,  one  of  those  that  assume  to  govern  great  men’s  houses,  and  who, 
not  being  nobly  born  themselves,  do  not  know  how  to  instruct  those  that  are,  but  would  have  the 
liberality  of  the  great  measured  by  the  narrowness  of  their  own  souls,  making  those  whom  they 
govern  stingy,  when  they  pretend  to  teach  them  frugality. 

After  a thousand  courtly  compliments  on  all  sides,  Don  Quixote  at  last  approached  the  table, 
between  the  duke  and  the  duchess  ; and  here  arose  a fresh  contest ; for  the  knight,  being  offered 
the  upper  end  of  the  table,  thought  himself  obliged  to  decline  it.  However,  he  could  not  withstand 
the  duke’s  pressing  importunities,  but  was  forced  at  last  to  comply.  The  parson  sat  right  against 
him,  and  the  duke  and  the  duchess  on  each  side. 

Sancho  stood  by  all  the  while,  gaping  with  wonder  to  see  the  honour  done  his  master ; and, 
observing  how  many  ceremonies  passed,  and  what  entreaties  the  duke  used  to  prevail  with  him  to 
sit  at  the  upper  end  of  the  table,  “ With  your  worship’s  leave,”  quoth  he,  “ I will  tell  you  what 
happened  once  in  our  town  in  reference  to  this  stir  and  ado  that  you  have  had  now  about  places.” 

The  words  were  scarce  out  of  his  mouth,  when  Don  Quixote  began  to  tremble,  as  having 
reason  to  believe  he  was  going  to  tell  some  impertinent  thing  or  other. 

Sancho  had  his  eyes  upon  him,  and,  presently  understanding  his  motions,  “ Sir,”  quoth  he, 
“ don’t  fear  ; I won’t  be  unmannerly,  I warrant  you.  I will  speak  nothing  but  what  shall  be  pat  to 
the  purpose  ; I han’t  so  soon  forgot  the  lesson  you  gave  me  about  talking  sense  or  nonsense,  little 
or  much.” 

“ I don’t  know  what  thou  meanest,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ say  what  thou  wilt,  so  thou  do 
it  quickly.” 

“ Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  turning  to  the  duke,  “ what  I am  going  to  tell  you  is  every  tittle 
true.  Should  I trip  never  so  little  in  my  story,  my  master  is  here  to  take  me  up.” 

“ Pr’ythee,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ take  heed  what  thou  sayest.” 

“ Nay,  nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “let  me  alone  for  that:  I have  heeded  it  and  re-heeded  it  over 
and  over,  and  that  you  shall  see,  I warrant  you.” 

“Truly,  my  lord,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “it  were  convenient  that  your  grace  should  order 
this  fellow  to  be  turned  out  of  the  room,  for  he  will  plague  you  with  a thousand  impertinences. 

“ Oh  ! as  for  that,  you  must  excuse  us,”  said  the  duchess ; “ Sancho  must  not  stir  a step 
from  me;  I’ll  engage  for  him,  he  shall  say  nothing  but  what  is  very  proper.” 

“ Many  and  many  years,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ may  your  holiness  live,  madam  duchess,  for 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  581 

your  good  opinion  of  me,  though  it  is  more  your  goodness  than  my  desert.  Now  then  for 
my  tale. 

“ Once  upon  a time  a gentleman  in  our  town,  of  a good  estate  and  family,  for  he  was  of  the 
blood  of  the  Alamos  of  Medina  del  Campo,  and  married  one  Donna  Mencia  de  Quinones,  who  was 
the  daughter  of  Don  Alonzo  de  Maranon,  a Knight  of  the  Order  of  St.  Jago,  the  very  same  that 
was  drowned  in  the  Herradura,  about  whom  that  quarrel  happened  formerly  in  our  town,  in 
which  I heard  say  that  my  master,  Don  Quixote,  was  embroiled,  and  little  Tom,  the  madcap, 
who  was  the  son  of  old  Balvastro  the  farrier,  happened  to  be  sorely  hurt.  Is  not  all  this  true 
now,  master?” 

“ Thou  producest  so  many  witnesses,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  mentionest  so 
many  circumstances,  that  I must  needs  own  I believe  what  thou  sayest  to  be  true.  But  go 
on,  and  shorten  thy  story ; for  I’m  afraid  thou  wilt  not  have  done  these  two  days.” 

“ Pray,  don’t  let  him  shorten  it,”  said  the  duchess  ; “ let  him  go  on  his  own  way,  though 
he  were  not  to  make  an  end  of  it  these  six  days : I shall  hear  him  with  pleasure,  and  think 
the  time  as  pleasantly  employed  as  any  I ever  passed  in  my  life.” 

“ I say  then,  my  masters,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  this  same  gentleman  I told  you  of  at  first, 
and  I know  him  as  well  as  I know  my  right  hand  from  my  left,  for  it  is  not  a bow-shot  from 
my  house  to  his ; this  gentleman  invited  a husbandman  to  dine  with  him,  who  was  a poor 
man,  but  main  honest ” 

“ On,  friend,”  said  the  chaplain ; “ at  the  rate  you  proceed  you  won’t  have  made  an  end 
before  you  come  to  your  grave.” 

“ I shall  stop  short  of  half  way,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ and  if  it  be  Heaven’s  blessed  will : a 
little  more  of  your  Christian  patience,  good  doctor!  Now  this  same  husbandman,  as  I said 
before,  coming  to  this  same  gentleman’s  house,  who  had  given  him  the  invitation — Heaven  rest 
his  soul,  poor  heart ! for  he  is  now  dead  and  gone ; and  more  than  that,  they  say  he  died 
the  death  of  an  angel.  For  my  part,  I was  not  by  him  when  he  died,  for  I was  gone  to 
harvest-work  at  that  very  time,  to  a place  called  Temblique.” 

“ Pr’ythee,  honest  friend,”  said  the  clergyman,  “ leave  your  harvest-  work,  and  come  back 
quickly  from  Temblique,  without  staying  to  bury  the  gentleman,  unless  you  have  a mind  to 
occasion  more  funerals  ; therefore,  pray,  make  an  end  of  your  story.” 

“You  must  know  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “that  as  they  two  were  ready  to  sit  down  at 
table — I mean  the  husbandman  and  the  gentleman.  Methinks  I see  them  now  before  my 
eyes  plainer  than  ever  I did  in  my  born  days.” 

The  duke  and  the  duchess  were  infinitely  pleased  to  find  how  Sancho  spun  out  his  story, 
and  how  the  clergyman  fretted  at  his  prolixity,  and  Don  Quixote  spent  himself  with  anger. 

“Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “to  go  on  with  my  story,  when  they  were  going  to  sit  down,  the 
husbandman  would  not  sit  till  the  gentleman  had  taken  his  place ; but  the  gentleman  made 
him  a sign  to  put  himself  at  the  upper  end. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


582 

“ ‘ By  no  means,  sir,’  quoth  the  husbandman. 

“ ‘ Sit  down,’  said  the  other. 

“ ‘ Good  your  worship,’  quoth  the  husbandman. 

“ * Sit  where  I bid  thee,’  said  the  gentleman. 

“ Still  the  other  excused  himself,  and  would  not ; and  the  gentleman  told  him  he  should, 
as  meaning  to  be  master  in  his  own  house.  But  the  over-mannerly  looby,  fancying  he  should 
be  very  well-bred  and  civil  in  it,  scraped,  and  cringed,  and  refused,  till  at  last  the  gentleman, 
in  a great  passion,  e’en  took  him  by  the  shoulders,  and  forced  him  into  the  chair. 

“ ‘ Sit  there,  clodpate,’  cried  he,  ‘ for,  let  me  sit  wherever  I will,  that  still  will  be  the 
upper  end,  and  the  place  of  worship  to  thee.’ 

“ And  now  you  have  my  tale,  and  I think  I have  spoken  nothing  but  what  is  to  the  purpose.” 

Don  Quixote’s  face  was  in  a thousand  colours,  that  speckled  its  natural  brown,  so  that 
the  duke  and  duchess  were  obliged  to  check  their  mirth  when  they  perceived  Sancho’s  roguery, 
that  Don  Quixote  might  not  be  put  too  much  out  of  countenance.  And  therefore  to  turn 
the  discourse,  that  Sancho  might  not  run  into  other  fooleries,  the  duchess  asked  Don  Quixote 
what  news  he  had  of  the  Lady  Dulcinea.  and  how  long  it  was  since  he  had  sent  her  any 
giants  or  robbers  for  a present,  not  doubting  but  that  he  had  lately  subdued  many  such. 

“ Alas ! madam,”  answered  he,  “ my  misfortunes  have  had  a beginning,  but,  I fear,  ■will 
never  have  an  end.  I have  vanquished  giants,  elves,  and  cut-throats,  and  sent  them  to  the 
mistress  of  my  soul,  but  where  shall  they  find  her  ? She  is  enchanted,  madam,  and  transformed 
to  the  ugliest  piece  of  rusticity  that  can  be  imagined.” 

“ I don’t  know,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ when  I saw  her  last  she  seemed  to  be  the  finest  creature 
in  the  ’varsal  world ; thus  far,  at  least,  I can  safely  vouch  for  her  upon  my  own  knowledge,  that  for 
activity  of  body  and  leaping,  the  best  tumbler  of  them  all  does  not  go  beyond  her.  Upon  my 
honest  word,  madam  duchess,  she  will  vault  from  the  ground  upon  her  ass  like  a cat.” 

Have  you  seen  her  enchanted  ? ” said  the  duke. 

“Seen  her!”  quoth  Sancho  ; “who  was  the  first  that  hit  upon  this  trick  of  her  enchantment, 
think  you,  but  I ? She  is  as  much  enchanted  as  my  father.” 

The  clergyman,  hearing  them  talk  of  giants,  elves,  and  enchantments,  began  to  suspect  this 
was  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  whose  history  the  duke  so  often  used  to  read,  though  he  had 
several  times  reprehended  him  for  it,  telling  him  it  was  a folly  to  read  such.  Being 
confirmed  in  his  suspicion,  he  addressed  himself  very  angrily  to  the  duke. 

“ My  lord,”  said  he,  “ your  grace  will  have  a large  account  to  give  one  day  for  soothing  this 
poor  man’s  follies.  I suppose  this  same  Don  Quixote,  or  Don  Quite  Sot,  or  whatever  you  are 
pleased  to  call  him,  cannot  be  quite  so  besotted  as  you  endeavour  to  make  him,  by  giving  him  sush 
opportunities  to  run  on  in  his  fantastical  humours.”  Then,  directing  his  discourse  to  Don  Quixote, 
“ Hark  ye,”  said  he,  “ Goodman  Addlepate,  who  has  put  it  into  your  crown  that  you  are  a knight- 
errant,  that  you  vanquish  giants  and  robbers  ? Go,  go,  get  you  home  again,  look  after  your 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


583 


children,  if  you  have  any,  and  what  honest  business  you  have  to  do,  and  leave  wandering  about  the 
world,  building  castles  in  the  air,  and  making  yourself  a laughing-stock  to  all  that  know  you,  or 
know  you  not.  Where  have  you  found,  in  the  name  of  mischief,  that  there  ever  has  been,  or  are 
now,  any  such  things  as  knights-errant  ? Where  will  you  meet  with  giants  in  Spain,  or  monsters  in 
La  Mancha  ? Where  shall  one  find  your  enchanted  Dulcineas,  and  all  those  legions  of  whimsies 
and  chimeras  that  are  talked  of  in  your  account,  but  in  your  own  empty  skull?” 

Don  Quixote  gave  this  reverend  person  a hearing  with  great  patience.  But  at  last,  seeing 
him  silent,  without  minding  his  respect  to  the  duke  and  duchess,  up  he  started  with  indignation  and 
fury  in  his  looks,  and  said But  his  answer  deserves  a chapter  by  itself. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

DON  QUIXOTE’S  ANSWER  TO  HIS  REPROVER,  WITH  OTHER  GRAVE  AND  MERRY  ACCIDENTS. 

DON  QUIXOTE  being  thus  suddenly  got  up,  shaking  from  head  to  foot  for  madness,  as  if 
he  had  quicksilver  in  his  bones,  cast  an  angry  look  on  his  indiscreet  censor,  and,  with  an 
eager  delivery,  sputtering  and  stammering  with  choler — • 

“ This  place,”  cried  he,  “ the  presence  of  these  noble  persons,  and  the  respect  I have  always 
had  for  your  function,  check  my  just  resentment,  and  tie  up  my  hands  from  taking  the  satisfaction  of 
a gentleman.  For  these  reasons,  and  since  every  one  knows  that  you  gown-men,  as  well  as  women, 
use  no  other  weapons  but  your  tongues,  I will  fairly  engage  you  upon  equal  terms,  and  combat  you 
with  your  own  weapon.  I should  rather  have  expected  sober  admonitions  from  a man  of  your  cloth, 
than  infamous  reproaches.  Charitable  and  wholesome  correction  ought  to  be  managed  at  another 
rate,  and  with  more  moderation.  The  least  that  can  be  said  of  this  reproof  which  you  have  given 
me  here  so  bitterly,  and  in  public,  is,  that  it  has  exceeded  the  bounds  of  Christian  correction,  and  a 
gentle  one  had  been  much  more  becoming.  Is  it  fit  that,  without  any  insight  into  the  offence  which 
you  reprove,  you  should,  without  any  more  ado,  call  the  offender  fool,  sot,  and  addlepate  ? Pray, 
sir,  what  foolish  action  have  you  seen  me  do,  that  should  provoke  you  to  give  me  such  ill  language, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


585 

tnd  bid  me  so  magisterially  go  home  to  look  after  my  wife  and  children,  before  you  know  whether 
I have  any  ? Don’t  you  think  those  deserve  as  severe  a censure,  who  screw  themselves  into  other 
men’s  houses,  and  pretend  to  rule  the  master  ? A fine  world  it  is  truly,  when  a poor  pedant,  who 
has  seen  no  more  of  it  than  lies  within  twenty  or  thirty  leagues  about  him,  shall  take  upon  him  to 
prescribe  laws  to  knight-errantry,  and  judge  of  those  who  profess  it!  You,  forsooth,  esteem  it  an 
idle  undertaking,  and  time  lost,  to  wander  through  the  w’orld,  though  scorning  its  pleasures,  and 
sharing  the  hardships  and  toils  of  it,  by  which  the  virtuous  aspire  to  the  high  seat  of  immortality. 
If  persons  of  honour,  knights,  lords,  gentlemen,  or  men  of  any  birth,  should  take  me  for  a fool  or  a 
coxcomb,  I should  think  it  an  irreparable  affront.  But  for  mere  scholars,  that  never  trod  the 
paths  of  chivalry,  to  think  me  mad,  I despise  and  laugh  at  it.  I am  a knight,  and  a knight 
will  I die,  if  so  it  please  Omnipotence.  Some  choose  the  high  road  of  haughty  ambition  ; others 
the  low  ways  of  base,  servile  flattery ; a third  sort  take  the  crooked  path  of  deceitful  hypocrisy  ; 
and  a few,  very  few,  that  of  true  religion.  I,  for  my  own  part,  guided  by  my  stars,  follow  the 
narrow  track  of  knight-errantry ; and,  for  the  exercise  of  it,  I despise  riches,  but  not  honour.  I 
have  redressed  grievances,  and  righted  the  injured,  chastised  the  insolent,  vanquished  giants,  and 
trod  elves  and  hobgoblins  under  my  feet.  I am  in  love,  but  no  more  than  the  profession  of  knight- 
errantry  obliges  me  to  be  r my  intentions  are  all  directed  to  virtuous  ends,  and  to  do  no  man 
wrong,  but  good  to  all  the  world.  And  now  let  your  graces  judge  whether  a person  who  makes 
it  his  only  study  to  practice  all  this  deserves  to  be  upbraided  for  a fool.” 

“Well  said,  i’  faith  !”  quoth  Sancho ; “say  no  more  for  yourself,  my  good  lord  and  master; 
stop  when  you  are  well  ; for  there  is  not  the  least  matter  to  be  added  more  on  your  side, 
either  in  word,  thought,  or  deed.  Besides,  since  Mr.  Parson  has  had  the  face  to  say,  point- 
blank,  as  one  may  say,  that  there  neither  are,  nor  ever  were,  any  knights-errant  in  the  world, 
no  marvel  he  does  not  know  what  he  says.” 

“What!”  said  the  clergyman,  “I  warrant  you  are  that  Sancho  Panza  to  whom  they 
say  your  master  has  promised  an  island  ?” 

“Ay,  marry  am  I,”  answered  Sancho;  “and  I am  he  that  deserves  it  as  well  as  another 
body ; and  I am  one  of  those  of  whom  they  say,  ‘ Keep  with  good  men,  and  thou  shalt  be 
one  of  them;’  and  of  those  of  whom  it  is  said  again,  ‘Not  with  whom  thou  wert  bred,  but 
with  whom  thou  hast  fed  ;’  as  also,  ‘ Lean  against  a good  tree,  and  it  will  shelter  thee.’  I have 
leaned  and  stuck  close  to  my  good  master,  and  kept  him  company  this  many  a month  ; and 
now  he  and  I are  all  one  ; and  I must  be  as  he  is,  an  it  be  Pleaven’s  blessed  will ; and  so 
he  live,  and  I live,  he  will  not  want  kingdoms  to  rule,  nor  shall  I want  islands  to  govern.” 

“That  thou  shalt  not,  honest  Sancho,”  said  the  duke;  “for  I,  on  the  great  Don  Quixote’s 
account,  v/ill  now  give  thee  the  government  of  an  odd  one  of  my  own  of  no  small  consequence.” 

“ Down,  down  on  thy  knees,  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “ and  kiss  his  grace’s  feet  for 
this  favour.” 

Sancho  did  accordingly  ; but  when  the  clergyman  saw  it,  he  got  up  in  a great  heat. 

74 


586 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ By  the  habit  which  I wear,”  cried  he,  “ I can  scarce  forbear  telling  your  grace  that 
you  are  as  mad  as  these  sinful  wretches.  Well  may  they  be  mad,  when  such  wise  men  as 
you  humour  and  authorise  their  frenzy.  You  may  keep  them  here,  and  stay  with  them 
yourself,  if  your  grace  pleases  ; but  for  my  part,  I will  leave  you  and  go  home,  to  save  myself 
the  labour  of  reprehending  what  I cannot  mend.” 

With  that,  leaving  the  rest  of  his  dinner  behind  him,  away  he  flung,  the  duke  and  the 
duchess  not  being  able  to  pacify  him  ; though,  indeed,  the  duke  could  not  say  much  to  him, 
for  laughing  at  his  impertinent  passion. 

When  he  had  done  laughing,  “Sir  Knight  of  the  Lions,”  said  he,  “you  have  answered 
so  well  for  yourself  and  your  profession,  that  you  need  no  farther  satisfaction  of  the  angry 
clergyman ; especially  if  you  consider  that  it  was  not  in  his  power  to  fix  an  affront  on  a 
person  of  your  character.” 

“Very  true,  my  lord,”  said  Don  Quixote;  “and  the  reason  is,  because  he  that  cannot 
receive  an  affront  consequently  can  give  none.  Women,  children,  and  churchmen,  as  they 
cannot  vindicate  themselves  when  they  are  injured,  so  neither  are  they  capable  of  receiving  an 
affront;  for  there  is  this  difference  betwixt  an  affront  and  injury,  as  your  grace  very  well  knows: 
an  affront  must  come  from  a person  that  is  both  able  to  give  it  and  maintain  it  when  he  has 

given  it.  An  injury  may  be  done  by  any  sort  of  people  whatsoever : for  example,  a man 

walking  in  the  street  about  his  business,  is  set  upon  by  ten  armed  men,  who  cudgel  him. 

He  draws  his  sword  to  revenge  the  injury,  but  the  assailants  overpowering  him,  he  cannot 

have  the  satisfaction  he  desired.  This  man  is  injured,  but  not  affronted.  But  to  confirm  it 
by  another  instance  : suppose  a man  comes  behind  another’s  back,  hits  him  a box  on  the  ear, 
and  then  runs  away;  the  other  follows  him,  but  can’t  overtake  him.  He  that  has  received 
the  blow  has  received  an  injury,  it  is  true,  but  not  an  affront;  because  to  make  it  an  affront, 
it  should  have  been  justified.  But  if  he  that  gave  it,  though  he  did  it  basely,  stands  his 
ground,  and  faces  his  adversary,  then  he  that  received  is  both  injured  and  affronted — injured, 
because  he  was  struck  in  a cowardly  manner ; affronted,  because  he  that  struck  him  stood  his 
ground  to  maintain  what  he  had  done.  Therefore,  according  to  the  settled  laws  of  duelling, 

0 o o r 

1 may  be  injured,  but  am  not  affronted.  Children  can  have  no  resentment,  and  women  can’t 
fly,  nor  are  they  obliged  to  stand  it  out ; and  it  is  the  same  thing  with  the  clergy,  for  they 
carry  no  arms,  either  offensive  or  defensive.  Therefore,  though  they  are  naturally  bound  by 
the  laws  of  self-preservation  to  defend  themselves,  yet  are  they  not  obliged  to  offend  others. 
Upon  second  thoughts,  then,  though  I said  just  now  I was  injured,  I think  now  I am  not;  for 
he  that  can  receive  no  affront  can  give  none.  Therefore  I ought  not  to  have  any  resentment 
for  what  that  good  man  said  ; neither,  indeed,  have  I any.  I only  wish  he  would  have  stayed 
a little  longer,  that  I might  have  convinced  him  of  his  error  in  believing  there  were  never  any 
knights-errant  in  the  world.  Had  Amadis,  or  any  one  of  his  innumerable  race,  but  heard  him 
say  anything  like  this,  I can  assure  his  reverence  it  would  have  gone  hard  with  him.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


537 

“ I will  be  sworn  it  would,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ they  would  have  undone  him  as  you  would 
undo  an  oyster,  and  have  cleft  him  from  head  to  foot,  as  one  would  slice  a pomegranate,  or 
a ripe  melon,  take  my  word  for  it.  They  were  a parcel  of  tough  blades,  and  would  not 
have  swallowed  such  a pill.  I verily  believe,  had  Rinaldo  of  Montalban  but  heard  the  poor 
toad  talk  at  this  rate,  he  would  have  laid  him  on  such  a blow  over  the  mouth  with  his  shoulder- 
o’-mutton  fist,  as  would  have  secured  him  from  prating  these  three  years.  Ay,  ay,  if  he  had 
fallen  into  their  clutches,  see  how  he  would  have  got  out  again ! ” 

The  duchess  was  ready  to  die  with  laughing  at  Sancho,  whom  she  thought  a more  pleasant 
fool  and  a greater  madman  than  his  master ; and  she  was  not  the  only  person  at  that  time  of 
this  opinion.  In  short,  Don  Quixote  being  pacified,  they  made  an  end  of  dinner,  and  then, 
while  some  of  the  servants  were  taking  away,  there  came  in  four  damsels,  one  carrying  a silver 
basin,  another  a ewer  of  the  same  metal ; a third,  two  very  fine  towels  over  her  arm,  and 
the  fourth,  with  her  sleeves  tucked  above  her  elbows,  held  in  her  lily-white  hand  (for  exceeding 
white  it  was)  a large  wash-ball  of  Naples  soap.  Presently  she  that  held  the  basin  went  very 
civilly,  and  clapped  it  under  Don  Quixote’s  chin,  while  he,  wondering  at  this  extraordinary 
ceremony,  yet  fancying  it  was  the  custom  of  the  country  to  wash  the  face  instead  of  the  hands, 
thrust  out  his  long  chin,  without  speaking  a word,  and  then  the  ewer  began  to  rain  on  his  face, 
and  the  damsel  that  brought  the  wash-ball  fell  to  work,  and  lathered  his  beard  so  effectually 
that  the  suds,  like  huge  flakes  of  snow,  flew  all  over  the  passive  knight’s  face,  insomuch  that 
he  was  forced  to  shut  his  eyes. 

The  duke  and  the  duchess,  who  knew  nothing  of  the  matter,  stood  wondering  where 
this  extraordinary  scouring  would  end.  The  female  barber,  having  thus  laid  the  knight’s 

face  a-soaking  a handful  high  in  suds,  pretended  she  wanted  water,  and  sent  another  with 

the  ewer  for  more,  telling  her  the  gentleman  would  stay  for  it.  She  went  and  left  him  in 
one  of  the  most  odd,  ridiculous  figures  that  can  be  imagined.  There  he  sat  exposed  to  all 
the  company,  with  half  a yard  of  neck  stretched  out,  his  bristly  beard  and  chaps  all  in  a 
white  foam,  which  did  not  at  all  mend  his  walnut  complexion ; insomuch  that  it  is  not  a 
little  strange  how  those  that  had  so  comical  a spectacle  before  them  could  forbear  laughing. 

The  four  malicious  damsels  who  had  a hand  in  the  plot  did  not  dare  to  look  up,  nor 

let  their  eyes  meet  those  of  their  master  or  mistress,  who  stood  strangely  divided  between 
anger  and  mirth,  not  knowing  what  to  do  in  the  case — whether  they  should  punish  the  girls 
for  their  boldness,  or  reward  them  for  the  diversion  they  caused  in  seeing  the  knight  in  that 
posture. 

At  last  the  maid  came  back  with  the  water,  and  the  other  having  rinsed  off  the  soap, 
she  that  held  the  linen  gently  wiped  and  dried  the  knight’s  beard  and  face ; after  which  all 
four,  dropping  a low  curtsey,  were  going  out  of  the  room.  But  the  duke,  that  Don  Quixote 
might  not  smell  the  jest,  called  to  the  damsel  that  carried  the  basin,  and  ordered  her  to  come 
and  wash  him  too,  but  be  sure  she  had  water  enough.  The  wench,  being  sharp  and  cunning, 


588 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


came  and  put  the  basin  under  the  duke’s  chin,  as  she  had  done  to  Don  Quixote,  but  with  a 
quicker  dispatch  ; and,  having  dried  him  ciean,  they  all  made  their  honours,  and  went  off. 

Sancho  took  great  notice  of  all  the  ceremonies  at  this  washing. 

“ ’S  life  !”  quoth  he,  “ I would  fain  know  whether  ’tis  not  the  custom  of  this  country  to 
scrub  the  squire’s  beard  as  well  as  the  knight’s ; for,  o’  my  conscience,  mine  wants  it  not  a 
little.  Nay,  if  they  would  run  it  over  with  a razor  too,  so  much  the  better.” 

“ What  art  thou  talking  to  thyself,  Sancho  ?”  said  the  duchess. 

“ Why,  an  ’t  like  your  grace’s  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I am  only  saying  that  I have 
been  told  how,  in  other  great  houses,  when  the  cloth  is  taken  away,  they  use  to  give  folks 
water  to  wash  their  hands,  and  not  suds  to  scour  their  beards.  I see  now  it  is  good  to 
live  and  learn.  There’s  a saying,  indeed,  ‘ He  that  lives  long  suffers  much.’  But  I have  a 
huge  fancy,  that  to  suffer  one  of  these  same  scourings  is  rather  a pleasure  than  a pain.” 

“ Well,  Sancho,”  said  the  duchess,  “ trouble  thyself  no  farther.” 

“ My  beard  is  all  I want  to  have  scrubbed  at  present,”  quoth  Sancho. 

“ Here,  steward,”  said  the  duchess,  “ see  that  Sancho  has  what  he  has  a mind  to,  and  be 
sure  do  just  as  he  would  have  you.” 

The  steward  told  her  grace  that  Signior  Sancho  should  want  for  nothing ; and  so  he  took 
Sancho  along  with  him  to  dinner. 

Meanwhile  Don  Quixote  stayed  with  the  duke  and  duchess,  talking  of  several  matters, 
but  all  relating  to  arms  and  knight-errantry.  The  duchess  then  took  an  opportunity  to 
desire  the  knight  to  give  a particular  description  of  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso’s  beauty 
and  accomplishments,  not  doubting  but  his  good  memory  would  enable  him  to  do  it  well  ; 
adding-  withal,  that  according  to  the  voice  of  fame,  she  must  needs  be  the  finest  creature  in 
the  whole  world,  and  consequently  in  all  La  Mancha. 

With  that,  Don  Quixote,  fetching  a deep  sigh,  “ Madam,”  said  he,  “ could  I take  out  my 
heart,  and  expose  it  to  your  grace’s  view  in  a dish  on  this  table,  I might  save  my  tongue 
the  labour  of  attempting  that  which  it  cannot  express,  and  you  can  scarce  believe ; for  there 
your  grace  would  see  her  beauty  painted  to  the  life.  But  why  should  I undertake  to 
delineate  and  copy  one  by  one  each  several  perfection  of  the  peerless  Dulcinea  ? That 
burden  must  be  sustained  by  stronger  shoulders  than  mine  : that  task  were  worthy  of  the 
pencils  of  Parrhasius,  Timantes,  and  Apelles,  or  the  graving  tools  of  Lysippus.  The  hands 
of  the  best  painters  and  statuaries  should  indeed  be  employed  to  give  in  speaking  paint,  in 
marble  and  Corinthian  brass,  an  exact  copy  of  her  beauties,  while  Ciceronian  and  Demosthenian 
eloquence  laboured  to  reach  the  praise  of  her  endowments.” 

“ Pray,  sir,”  asked  the  duchess,  “ what  do  you  mean  by  that  word  Demosthenian  ? 

“Demosthenian  eloquence,  madam,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “is  as  much  as  to  say.  tlr. 
eloquence  of  Demosthenes,  and  the  Ciceronian  that  of  Cicero,  the  two  greatest  orators 
ever  were  in  the  world.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


589 


“ It  is  true,”  said  the  duke ; “ and  you  but  showed  your  ignorance,  my  dear,  in  asking 
such  a question.  Yet  the  noble  Don  Quixote  would  highly  oblige  us,  if  he  would  but  be 
pleased  to  attempt  her  picture  now ; for  even  in  a rude  draught  of  her  lineaments,  I question 

not  but  she  will  appear  so  charming,  as  to  deserve  the  envy  of  the  brightest  of  her  sex.” 

“ Ah ! my  lord,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ it  would  be  so  indeed,  if  the  misfortune  which  not 

long  since  befell  her  had  not  in  a manner  razed  her  idea  out  of  the  seat  of  my  memory ; 

and  as  it  is,  I ought  rather  to  bewail  her  change  than  describe  her  person  ; for  your  grace 
must  know  that  as  I lately  went  to  kiss  her  hands,  and  obtain  her  benediction  and  leave 
for  my  intended  absence  in  quest  of  new  adventures,  I found  her  quite  another  creature 
than  I expected.  I found  her  enchanted,  transformed  from  a princess  to  a country  wench, 
from  beauty  to  ugliness,  from  courtliness  to  rusticity,  from  light  to  darkness ; in  short,  from 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso  to  a peasantess  of  Sayago.” 

“ Bless  us ! ” cried  the  duke  with  a loud  voice,  “ what  villain  has  done  the  world  such  an 

injury  ? Who  has  robbed  it  not  only  of  the  beauty  that  was  its  ornament,  but  of  those  charming 

graces  that  were  its  delight,  and  that  virtue  which  was  its  living  honour  ? ” 

“ Who  should  it  be,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ but  one  of  those  deceitful  enchanters,  one 
of  those  numerous  envious  fiends  that  without  cessation  persecute  me ; that  wicked  brood 
of  evil,  brought  into  the  world  to  eclipse  the  glory  of  good  and  valiant  men,  and  blemish 

their  exploits,  while  they  labour  to  exalt  and  magnify  the  actions  of  the  bad  ? These 

magicians  have  before  persecuted  me,  and  persecute  me  now,  and  will  continue  till  they 
have  sunk  me  and  my  lofty  deeds  of  chivalry  into  the  profound  abyss  of  oblivion.  Yes, 
yes,  they  choose  to  wound  me  in  that  part  which  they  are  aware  is  most  sensible,  well: 
knowing  that  to  deprive  a knight-errant  of  his  lady  is  to  rob  him  of  those  eyes  with  which 
he  sees,  of  the  sun  that  enlightens  him,  and  the  food  that  sustains  him.  For,  as  I have  often 
said,  a knight-errant  without  a lady  is  like  a tree  without  leaves,  a building  without  mortar,  or 
a shadow  without  a body  that  causes  it.” 

“ I grant  all  this,”  said  the  duchess  ; “ yet  if  we  may  believe  the  history  of  your  life,  which 
was  lately  published  with  universal  applause,  it  seems  to  imply,  to  the  best  of  my  remembrance, 
that  you  never  saw  the  Lady  Dulcinea,  and  that  there  is  no  such  lady  in  the  world  ; but  rather 
that  she  is  a mere  notional  creature,  engendered  and  brought  forth  by  the  strength  and  heat 
of  your  fancy,  and  there  endowed  with  all  the  charms  and  good  qualifications  which  you  are 
pleased  to  ascribe  to  her.” 

“ Much  may  be  said  upon  this  point,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ Heaven  knows  whether  there 
be  a Dulcinea  in  the  world  or  not,  and  whether  she  be  a notional  creature  or  not.  These  are 
mysteries  not  to  be  so  narrowly  inquired  into.  I do  indeed  make  her  the  object  of  my  con- 
templations, and,  as  I ought,  look  on  her  as  a lady  endowed  with  all  those  qualifications  that 
may  raise  the  character  of  a person  to  universal  fame.  She  is  to  me  beautiful  without  blemish, 
reserved  without  pride,  amorous  with  modesty,  agreeable  for  her  courteous  temper  and  her 


590 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


education,  and,  in  short,  of  an  illustrious  parentage.  For  beauty  displays  its  lustre  to  a higher 
degree  of  perfection  when  joined  with  noble  blood,  than  it  can  in  those  that  are  meanly  descended.” 

“ The  observation  is  just,”  said  the  duke;  “ but  give  tne  leave,  sir,  to  propose  to  you  a doubt, 
which  the  reading  of  that  history  has  started  in  my  mind.  It  is,  that  allowing  there  be  a Dulcinea 
at  Toboso,  or  elsewhere,  and  as  beautiful  as  you  describe  her,  yet  I do  not  find  she  can  any  way 
equal  in  greatness  of  birth  the  Orianas,  the  Alastraj areas,  the  Madasimas,  and  a thousand  others, 
of  whom  we  read  in  those  histories,  with  which  you  have  been  so  conversant.” 

“To  this,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “I  answer,  that  Dulcinea  is  the  daughter  of  her  own  actions, 
and  that  virtue  ennobles  the  blood.  A virtuous  man  of  mean  condition  is  more  to  be  esteemed 
than  a vicious  person  of  quality.  Besides,  Dulcinea  is  possessed  of  endowments  that  may 
entitle  her  to  crowns  and  sceptres,  since  beauty  alone  has  raised  many  of  her  sex  to  a throne. 
Where  merit  has  no  limits,  hope  may  well  have  no  bounds ; and  to  be  fair  and  virtuous 
is  so  extensive  an  advantage,  that  it  gives,  though  not  a formal,  at  least  a virtual  claim  to  larger 
fortunes.” 

“ I must  own,  sir,”  said  the  duchess,  “ that  in  all  your  discourse  you,  as  we  say,  proceed 
with  the  plummet  of  reason,  and  fathom  all  the  depths  of  controversy.  Therefore,  I submit, 
and  from  this  time  I am  resolved  to  believe,  and  will  make  all  my  domestics,  nay,  my  husband, 
too,  if  there  be  occasion,  believe  and  maintain,  that  there  is  a Dulcinea  del  Toboso  extant, 
and  living  at  this  day  ; that  she  is  beautiful  and  of  good  extraction ; and  to  sum  up  all  in  a word, 
altogether  deserving  the  services  of  so  great  a knight  as  the  noble  Don  Quixote,  which  I think 
is  the  highest  commendation  I can  bestow  on  her.  But  yet  I must  confess,  there  is  still  one 
scruple  that  makes  me  uneasy,  and  causes  me  to  have  an  ill  opinion  of  Sancho.  It  is,  that  the 
history  tells  us,  that  when  Sancho  Panza  carried  your  letter  to  the  Lady  Dulcinea,  he  found  her 
winnowing  a sack  of  corn,  by  the  same  token  that  it  was  the  worst  sort  of  wheat,  which  makes  me 
much  doubt  her  quality.” 

“ Your  grace  must  know,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “that  almost  everything  that  relates  to  me 
is  managed  quite  contrary  to  what  the  affairs  of  other  knights-errant  used  to  be.  Whether  it  be 
the  unfathomable  will  of  Destiny,  or  the  implacable  malice  of  some  envious  enchanter  orders  it  so, 
or  no,  I cannot  well  tell.  For  it  is  beyond  all  doubt,  that  most  of  us  knights-errant  still  have  had 
something  peculiar  in  our  fates.  One  has  had  the  privilege  to  be  above  the  power  of  enchantments, 
another  invulnerable,  as  the  famous  Orlando,  one  of  the  twelve  peers  of  France,  whose  flesh,  they 
tell  us,  was  impenetrable  everywhere  but  in  the  sole  of  his  left  foot,  and  even  there,  too,  he  could 
be  wounded  with  no  other  weapon  than  the  point  of  a great  pin ; so  that  when  Bernardo  del  Carpio 
deprived  him  of  life  at  Roncesvalles,  finding  he  could  not  wound  him  with  his  sword,  he  lifted  him 
from  the  ground,  and  squeezed  him  to  death  in  his  arms ; remembering  how  Hercules  killed 
Antaeus,  that  cruel  giant,  who  was  said  to  be  the  son  of  the  Earth.  Hence  I infer,  that  probably  I 
may  be  secured  in  the  same  manner,  under  the  protection  of  some  particular  advantage,  though  it 
is  not  that  of  being  invulnerable ; for  I have  often  found  by  experience  that  my  flesh  is  tender  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


591 


not  impenetrable.  Nor  does  any  private  prerogative  free  me  from  the  power  of  enchantment ; for 
I have  found  myself  clapped  into  a cage,  where  all  the  world  could  not  have  locked  me  up,  but  the 
force  of  necromantic  incantations.  But  since  I got  free  again,  I believe  that  even  the  force  of  magic 
will  never  be  able  to  confine  me  thus  another  time.  So  that  these  magicians,  finding  they  cannot 
work  their  wicked  ends  directly  on  me,  revenge  themselves  by  persecuting  Dulcinea,  for  whom  I live. 

“ I believe,  when  my  squire  went  to  her,  they  transformed  her  into  a country  dowdy,  busied 
in  the  base  employment  of  winnowing  wheat.  But  I do  aver  that  it  was  neither  rye  nor  wheat, 
but  Oriental  pearl  : and  to  prove  this,  I must  acquaint  your  graces,  that  passing  the  other  day 
by  Toboso,  I could  not  so  much  as  find  Dulcinea’s  palace  ; whereas  my  squire  went  the  next 
day,  and  saw  her  in  all  her  native  charms,  the  most  beautiful  creature  in  the  world  ; yet  when 
I met  her  presently  after,  she  appeared  to  me  in  the  shape  of  an  ugly,  coarse,  country  mawkin, 
boorish,  and  ill-bred,  though  she  really  is  discretion  itself.  And  therefore,  because  I myself 
cannot  be  enchanted,  the  unfortunate  lady  must  be  thus  enchanted,  misused,  disfigured,  chopped 
and  changed.  Thus  my  enemies,  wreaking  their  malice  on  her,  have  revenged  themselves  on 
me,  which  makes  me  abandon  myself  to  sorrow,  till  she  be  restored  to  her  former  perfections. 

“ I have  been  the  more  large  in  this  particular,  that  nobody  might  insist  on  what  Sancho- 

said  of  her  sifting  of  corn  ; for  if  she  appeared  changed  to  me,  what  wonder  is  it  if  she  seemed" 

so  to  him  ? In  short,  Dulcinea  is  both  illustrious  and  well-born,  being  descended  of  the  most 
ancient  and  best  families  in  Toboso  ; and  now  that  town  will  be  no  less  famous  in  after  aqes 
than  Troy  for  Helen,  or  Spain  for  Cava,  though  on  a more  honourable  account. 

“As  for  Sancho  Panza,  I assure  your  grace  he  is  one  of  the  most  pleasant  squires  that  ever 

waited  on  a knight-errant.  Sometimes  he  comes  out  with  such  sharp  simplicities,  that  one  is  puzzled 
to  judge  whether  he  be  more  knave  or  fool.  He  doubts  of  everything,  yet  believes  everything;  and 
when  one  would  think  he  had  entangled  himself  in  a piece  of  downright  folly,  beyond  recovery, 
he  brings  himself  off  of  a sudden  so  cleverly,  that  he  is  applauded  to  the  skies.  In  short,  I would 
not  change  him  for  the  best  squire  that  wears  a head,  though  I might  have  a city  to  boot, 
and  therefore  I do  not  know  whether  I had  best  let  him  go  to  the  government  which  your- 
grace  has  been  pleased  to  promise  him  ; though,  I must  confess,  his  talents  seem  to  lie  pretty 
much  that  way : for,  give  never  so  little  a whet  to  his  understanding,  he  will  manage  his 
government  as  well  as  the  king  does  his  customs.  Then  experience  convinces  us  that  neither 
learning  nor  any  other  abilities  are  very  material  to  a governor.  Have  we  not  a hundred  of 
them  that  can  scarce  read  a letter,  and  yet  they  govern  as  sharp  as  so  many  hawks  ? Their 
main  business  is  only  to  mean  well,  and  to  be  resolved  to  do  their  best ; for  they  cannot  want 
able  counsellors  to  instruct  them.  Thus  those  governors  who  are  men  of  the  sword,  and  no 
scholars,  have  their  assessors  on  the  bench  to  direct  them.  My  counsel  to  Sancho  shall  be, 

I 

that  he  neither  take  bribes  nor  lose  his  privileges,  with  some  other  little  instructions,  which  I 
have  in  my  head  for  him,  and  which  at  a proper  time  I will  communicate,  both  for  his  private 
advantage  and  the  public  good  of  the  island  he  is  to  govern.’' 


59- 


don  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


So  far  had  the  duke,  the  duchess,  and  Don  Quixote  been  discoursing  together,  when  they 
heard  a great  noise  in  the  house,  and  by-and-by  Sancho  came  running  unexpectedly  into  the 
room  where  they  sat,  in  a terrible  fright,  with  a dish-clout  before  him  instead  of  a bib.  The 
scullions  and  other  greasy  rabble  of  the  kitchen  were  after  him,  one  of  them  pursuing  him 
with  a little  kneading-trough  full  of  dish-water,  which  he  endeavoured  to  put  under  his  chin, 
while  another  stood  ready  to  have  washed  the  poor  squire  with  it. 

“How  now,  fellow?”  said  the  duchess;  “what  is  the  matter  here?  What  would  you  do 
with  this  good  man?  Don’t  you  consider  he  is  a governor  elect?” 

“ Madam,”  quoth  the  barber-scullion,  “ the  gentleman  won’t  let  us  wash  him  according  to 
custom,  as  my  lord  duke  and  his  master  were.” 

“Yes,  marry  but  I will,”  quoth  Sancho,  in  a mighty  huff,  “but  then  it  shall  be  with 
cleaner  suds,  cleaner  towels,  and  not  quite  so  slovenly  paws  ; for  there  is  no  such  difference 
between  my  master  and  me  neither,  that  he  must  be  washed  with  pure  water,  and  I with 
any  dirty  suds  : so  far  the  customs  of  great  men’s  houses  are  good  as  they  give  no  offence ; 
but  this  same  washing  in  a puddle  is  worse  penance  than  a friar’s  flogging.  My  beard  is  clean 
enough,  and  wants  no  such  refreshing.  Stand  clear,  you  had  best ; for  the  first  that  comes  to 
wash  me,  or  touch  a hair  of  my  head  (my  beard  I would  say),  I will  take  him  such  a dowse 
o’  the  ear,  he  shall  feel  it  a twelvemonth  after : for  these  kind  of  ceremonies  and  soapings,  do 
ye  see,  look  more  like  flouts  and  jeers  than  like  a civil  welcome  to  strangers.” 

The  duchess  was  like  to  have  burst  her  sides  with  laughing,  to  see  Sancho’s  fury,  and 
hear  how  he  argued  for  himself.  But  Don  Quixote  did  not  very  well  like  to  see  him  with 
such  a nasty  dish-clout  about  his  neck,  and  made  the  sport  of  the  kitchen  pensioners.  There- 
fore, after  he  had  made  a deep  bow  to  the  duke,  as  it  were  desiring  leave  to  speak,  looking 
on  the  scullions — “Hark  ye,  gentlemen,”  cried  he,  very  gravely,  “pray  let  the  young  man 
alone,  and  get  you  gone  as  you  came,  if  you  think  fit.  My  squire  is  as  cleanly  as  another 
man ; that  trough  won’t  do  ; you  had  better  have  brought  him  a dram-cup.  Away  ; be  advised 
by  me,  and  leave  him  : for  neither  he  nor  I can  abide  such  slovenly  jestings.” 

“No,  no,”  quoth  Sancho,  taking  the  words  out  of  his  master’s  mouth;  “let  them  stay,  and 
go  on  with  their  show.  I’ll  pay  my  barbers,  I’ll  warrant  ye.  They  had  as  good  take  a lion 
by  the  beard  as  meddle  with  mine.  Let  them  bring  a comb  hither,  or  what  they  wiil,  and 
currycomb  it ; and  if  they  find  anything  there  that  should  not  be  there,  I will  give  them  leave 
to  cut  and  mince  me  as  small  as  a horse.” 

“ Sancho  is  in  the  right,”  said  the  duchess,  still  laughing,  “ and  will  be  in  the  right,  in  all 
he  says  : he  is  as  clean  and  neat  as  can  be,  and  needs  none  of  your  scouring.  But  you  are  a 
pack  of  unmannerly  varlets,  and,  like  saucy  rascals  as  you  are,  cannot  help  showing  your  spite 
to  the  squires  of  knights-errant.” 

The  greasy  regiment,  and  even  the  steward  who  was  with  them,  thought  verily  the  duchess 
had  been  in  earnest.  So  they  took  the  cloth  from  Sancho’s  neck,  and  sneaked  off  quite  out  of 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


593 


countenance.  Sancho,  seeing  himself  delivered  from  his  apprehension  of  this  danger,  ran  and 
threw  himself  on  his  knees  before  the  duchess.  “ Heaven  bless  your  worship’s  grace,”  quoth  he, 
“ Madam  Duchess.  Great  persons  are  able  to  do  great  kindnesses.  For  my  part,  I don’t  know 
how  to  make  your  worship  amends  for  this  you  have  done  me  now.  I can  only  wish  I might 
see  myself  an  armed  knight-errant  for  your  sake,  that  I might  spend  all  the  days  of  my  life  in 
the  service  of  so  high  a lady.  I am  a poor  countryman,— my  name  is  Sancho  Panza, — children 
I have,  and  serve  as  a squire.  If  in  any  of  these  matters  I can  do  you  any  good,  you  need 
but  speak  ; I will  be  nimbler  in  doing  than  your  worship  shall  be  in  ordering.” 

“ It  is  evident,  Sancho,”  said  the  duchess,  “ that  you  have  learned  civility  in  the  school  of 
courtesy  itself,  and  have  been  bred  up  under  the  wings  of  Don  Quixote,  who  is  the  very  cream 
of  compliment,  and  the  flower  of  ceremonies.  All  happiness  attend  such  a knight  and  such  a 
squire  ; the  one  the  north  star  of  chivalry-errant,  the  other  the  bright  luminary  of  squire-like 
fidelity.  Rise,  my  friend  Sancho,  and  assure  yourself  that,  for  the  recompense  of  your  civilities, 
I will  persuade  my  lord  duke  to  put  you  in  possession  of  the  government  he  promised  you  as 
soon  as  he  can.” 

After  this,  Don  Quixote  went  to  take  his  afternoon’s  sleep ; but  the  duchess  desired  Sancho, 
if  he  were  not  very  sleepy,  he  would  pass  the  afternoon  with  her  and  her  women  in  a cool 
room.  Sancho  told  her  grace  that  indeed  he  did  use  to  take  a good  sound  nap,  some  four  or 
five  hours  long,  in  a summer’s  afternoon  ; but  to  do  her  good  honour  a kindness,  he  would 
break  an  old  custom  for  once,  and  do  his  best  to  hold  up  that  day,  and  wait  on  her 
worship.  The  duke,  on  his  side,  gave  fresh  orders  that  Don  Quixote  should  be  entertained 
exactly  like  a knight-errant,  without  deviating  the  least  step  from  the  road  of  chivalry,  such  as 
is  observable  in  books  of  that  kind. 


75 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 


THE  SAVOURY  CONFERENCE  WHICH  THE  DUCHESS  AND  HER  WOMEN  HELD  WITH  SANCHO  PANZA,  WORTH 

YOUR  READING  AND  OBSERVATION. 

THE  story  afterwards  informs  us  that  Sancho  slept  not  a wink  all  that  afternoon,  but 
waited  on  the  duchess  as  he  had  promised.  Being  mightily  taken  with  his  comical 
discourse,  she  ordered  him  to  take  a low  chair,  and  sit  by  her  ; but  Sancho,  who  knew  better 
things,  absolutely  declined  it,  till  she  pressed  him  again  to  sit,  as  he  was  a governor,  and  speak 
as  he  was  a squire ; in  both  which  capacities  he  deserved  the  very  seat  of  Cid  Ruy  Diaz,  the 
famous  champion.  Sancho  shrugged  up  his  shoulders,  and  obeyed,  and  all  the  duchess’s  women 
standing;  round  about  her  to  give  her  silent  attention,  she  began  the  conference. 

“Now  that  we  are  in  private,”  said  she,  “and  nobody  to  overhear  us,  I would  desire  you, 
my  lord  governor,  to  resolve  me  of  some  doubts  in  the  printed  history  of  the  great  Don  Quixote, 
which  puzzle  me  very  much.  First,  I find  that  the  good  Sancho  had  never  seen  Dulcinea — 
the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  I should  have  said — nor  carried  her  his  master’s  letter,  as  having 
left  the  table-book  behind  him  in  Sierra  Morena;  how  then  durst  he  feign  an  answer,  and 
pretend  he  found  her  winnowing  wheat  ? a fiction  and  banter  so  injurious  to  the  reputation 
of  the  peerless  Dulcinea,  and  so  great  a blemish  on  the  character  of  a faithful  squire!” 


At  tue  duchess  s request,  he  related  the  whole  passage  of  the  late  pretended  enchantment  very  faithfully.” — />.  596. 


596 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Here  Sancho  got  up  without  speaking  a word,  laid  his  finger  on  his  lips,  and,  with  his 
body  bent,  crept  cautiously  round  the  room,  lifting  up  the  hangings,  and  peeping  in  every 
hole  and  corner.  At  last,  finding  the  coast  clear,  he  returned  to  his  seat.  “Now,”  quoth  he, 
“ Madam  Duchess,  since  I find  there  is  nobody  here  but  ourselves,  you  shall  e’en  hear,  without 
fear  or  favour,  the  truth  of  the  story,  and  what  else  you  will  ask  of  me,  but  not  a word  of  the 
pudding.  First  and  foremost  I must  tell  you,  I look  on  my  master,  Don  Quixote,  to  be  no 
better  than  a downright  madman,  though  sometimes  he  will  stumble  on  a parcel  of  sayings 
so  quaint,  and  so  tightly  put  together,  that  nobody  could  mend  them  ; but  in  the  main 
I can’t  beat  it  out  of  my  noddle  but  that  he  is  as  mad  as  a March  hare.  Now,  because  I 
am  pretty  confident  of  knowing  his  blind  side,  whatever  crotchets  come  into  my  crown,  though 
without  either  head  or  tail,  yet  can  I make  them  pass  upon  him  for  gospel.  Such  was  the 
answer  to  his  letter,  and  another  sham  that  I put  upon  him  but  the  other  day,  and  is  not  in 
print  yet,  touching  my  Lady  Dulcinea’s  enchantment ; for  you  must  know,  between  you  and 
I,  she  is  no  more  enchanted  than  the  man  in  the  moon.” 

With  that,  at  the  duchess’s  request,  he  related  the  whole  passage  of  the  late  pretended 
enchantment  very  faithfully,  to  the  great  diversion  of  the  hearers. 

“ But,  sir,”  said  the  duchess,  “ I have  another  scruple  in  this  affair  no  less  unaccountable 
than  the  former ; for  I think  I hear  something  whisper  me  in  the  ear,  and  say,  If  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha  be  such  a shallow-brains,  why  does  Sancho  Panza,  who  knows  him  to  be  so, 
wait  upon  this  madman,  and  rely  thus  upon  his  vain,  extravagant  promises  ? I can  only  infer 
from  this,  that  the  man  is  more  a fool  than  the  master ; and  if  so,  will  not  Madam  Duchess 
be  thought  as  mad  as  either  of  them,  to  bestow  the  government  of  an  island,  or  the  command 
of  others,  on  one  who  can’t  govern  himself?” 

“ By  our  Lady,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ your  scruple  comes  in  pudding  time  ! But  I need  not 
whisper  in  your  ear  ; it  may  e’en  speak  plain,  and  as  loud  as  it  will.  I am  a fool,  that  is  certain  ; 
for  if  I had  been  wise,  I had  left  my  master  many  a fair  day  since ; but  it  was  my  luck,  and 
my  vile  errantry,  and  that  is  all  can  be  said  on  ’t.  I must  follow  him  through  thick  and  thin. 
We  are  both  towns-born  children  ; I have  eaten  his  bread — I love  him  well,  and  there  is  no 
love  lost  between  us.  He  pays  me  very  well,  he  has  given  me  three  colts,  and  I am  so 
very  true  and  trusty  to  him,  that  nothing  but  death  can  part  us.  And  if  your  high  and  mighti- 
ness does  not  think  fit  to  let  me  have  this  same  government,  why,  so  be  it ; with  less  was  I 
born,  and  with  less  shall  I die  ; it  may  be  for  the  good  of  my  conscience  to  go  without  it. 
I am  a fool,  it  is  true,  but  yet  I understand  the  meaning  of  the  saying,  ‘ The  emmet  had 
wings  to  do  her  hurt ;’  and  Sancho  the  squire  may  socner  get  to  heaven  than  Sancho  the 
governor.  There  is  as  good  bread  baked  here  as  in  France,  and  Joan  is  as  good  as  my  lady 
in  the  dark.  ‘ In  the  night  all  cats  are  grey.’  ‘ Unhappy  he  is  that  wants  his  breakfast  at 
two  in  the  afternoon.’  ‘It  is  always  good  fasting  after  a good  breakfast.’  There  is  no  man 
has  a stomach  a yard  bigger  than  another ; but  let  it  be  never  so  big,  there  will  be  hay  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


597 


straw  enough  to  fill  it.  A bellyful  is  a bellyful.  ‘ The  sparrow  speeds  as  well  as  the  sparrow- 
hawk.’  ‘Good  serge  is  fine,  but  coarse  cloth  is  warm;  and  four  yards  of  the  one  are  as  long 
as  four  yards  of  the  other.’  When  the  hour  is  come  we  must  all  be  packed  off : the  prince 
and  the  peasant  go  the  same  way  at  last ; the  road  is  no  fairer  for  the  one  than  the  other. 
The  Pope’s  body  takes  up  no  more  room  than  the  sexton’s,  though  one  be  taller ; for  when 
they  come  to  the  pit  all  are  alike,  or  made  so  in  spite  of  our  teeth  ; and  so  good  night,  or 
good  morrow,  which  you  please.  And  let  me  tell  you  again,  if  you  don’t  think  fit  to  give 
me  an  island  because  I am  a fool,  I will  be  so  wise  as  not  to  care  whether  you  do  or  no.  It 
is  an  old  saying,  ‘The  devil  lurks  behind  the  cross.’  ‘All  is  not  gold  that  glisters.’  From  the 
tail  of  the  plough  Bamba  was  made  King  of  Spain  ; and  from  his  silks  and  riches  was  Rodrigo 
cast  to  be  devoured  by  the  snakes,  if  the  old  ballads  say  true,  and  sure  they  are  too  old  to. 
tell  a lie.” 

“ That  they  are  indeed,”  said  Donna  Rodriguez,  the  old  waiting  woman,  who  listened 
among  the  rest ; “ for  I remember  one  of  the  ballads  tells  us  how  Don  Rodrigo  was  shut  up 
alive  in  a tomb  full  of  toads,  snakes,  and  lizards ; and  how,  after  two  days,  he  was  heard  to- 
cry  out  of  the  tomb  in  a low  and  doleful  voice,  ‘ Now  they  eat  me,  now  they  gnaw  me,  in. 
the  part  where  I sinned  most.’  And  according  to  this  the  gentleman  is  in  the  right  in  saying 
he  had  rather  be  a poor  labourer  than  a king  to  be  gnawed  to  death  by  vermin.” 

Sancho’s  proverbial  aphorisms,  and  the  simple  waiting  woman’s  comment  upon  the  text, 
were  no  small  diversion  to  the  duchess.  “You  know,”  said  she,  “honest  Sancho,  that  the 
promise  of  a gentleman  or  knight  must  be  as  precious  and  sacred  to  him  as  his  life  ; I make 
no  question  then  but  that  my  lord  duke,  who  is  also  a knight,  though  not  of  your  master’s 
order,  will  infallibly  keep  his  word  with  you  in  respect  of  your  government.  Take  courage 
then,  Sancho,  for  when  you  least  dream  on  ’t,  in  spite  of  all  the  envy  and  malice  of  the  world, 
you  will  suddenly  see  yourself  in  full  possession  of  your  government,  and  seated  in  your  chair 
of  state  in  your  rich  robes,  with  all  your  marks  and  ornaments  of  power  about  you.  But  be 
sure  to  administer  true  justice  to  your  vassals,  who,  by  their  loyalty  and  discretion,  will  merit 
no  less  at  your  hands.” 

“ As  for  the  governing  part,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ let  me  alone : I was  ever  charitable  and 
good  to  the  poor,  and  scorn  to  take  the  bread  out  of  another  man’s  mouth.  On  the  other 

side,  by  our  Lady,  they  shall  play  me  no  foul  play.  I am  an  old  cur  at  a crust,  and  can  sleep 

dog-sleep  when  I list.  I can  look  sharp  as  well  as  another,  and  let  me  alone  to  keep  the 
cobwebs  out  of  my  eyes.  I know  where  the  shoe  wrings  me.  I will  know  who  and  who  is 
together.  ‘Honesty  is  the  best  policy:’  I will  stick  to  that.  The  good  shall  have  my  hand 
and  heart,  but  the  bad  neither  foot  nor  fellowship.  And  in  my  mind,  the  main  thing  in  this 

point  of  governing  is  to  make  a good  beginning.  I will  lay  my  life,  that  as  simple  as  Sancho 

sits  here,  in  a fortnight’s  time  he  will  manage  ye  this  same  island  as  rightly  as  a sheaf  of 
barley.” 


59§ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“You  say  well,  Sancho,”  said  the  duchess,  “for  time  ripens  all  things.  No  man  is  born 
wise.  Bishops  are  made  of  men,  and  not  of  stones.  But  to  return  once  more  to  the  Lady 
Dulcinea  ; I am  more  than  half  persuaded  that  Sancho’s  design  of  putting  the  trick  upon  his 
master  was  turned  into  a greater  cheat  upon  himself.  For  I am  well  assured  that  the  creature 
whom  you  fancy  to  be  a country  wench,  and  took  so  much  pains  to  persuade  your  master 
was  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  was  really  the  same  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  and  really  enchanted,  as 
Don  Quixote  thought ; and  the  magicians  that  persecute  your  master  first  invented  that  story, 
and  put  it  into  your  head.  For  you  must  know  that  we  have  our  enchanters  here,  that  have 
a kindness  for  us,  and  give  us  an  account  of  what  happens  in  the  world  faithfully  and  im- 
partially, without  any  tricks  or  equivocations.  And  take  my  word  for  it,  the  jumping  country 
wench  was,  and  is  still,  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  who  is  as  certainly  enchanted  as  the  mother  that 
bore  her ; and  when  we  least  expect  it,  we  shall  see  her  again  in  her  true  shape,  and  in  all 
her  native  lustre  ; and  then  Sancho  will  find  it  was  he  himself  was  bubbled.” 

“Troth,  madam,”  quoth  Sancho,  “all  this  might  well  be:  and  now  I am  apt  to  believe 
what  my  master  tells  me  of  the  cave  of  Montesinos  ; where,  as  he  says,  he  saw  my  Lady  Dulcinea 
del  Toboso  in  the  selfsame  garb,  and  as  handsome  as  I told  him  I had  seen  her  when  it 
came  into  my  noddle  to  tell  him  she  was  enchanted.  Ay,  my  lady,  it  must  be  quite  contrary 
to  what  I weened,  as  your  worship’s  grace  well  observes  ; for,  bless  us ! who  could  possibly 
imagine  that  such  a numskull  as  I should  have  it  in  him  to  devise  so  cunning  a trick  of  a 
sudden  ? Besides,  who  can  think  that  my  master  is  such  a goose  as  to  believe  so  unlikely  a 
matter  upon  the  single  vouching  of  such  a dunderhead  fellow  as  I ? But  for  all  that,  my 
good  lady,  I hope  you  know  better  things  than  to  think  me  a knave  ; a lack  a day ! it  can’t  be 
expected  that  such  an  ignoramus  as  I am  should  be  able  to  divine  into  the  tricks  and  wiles 
of  wicked  magicians.  I invented  that  flam  only,  because  my  master  would  never  leave  teasing 
me ; but  I had  no  mind  to  abuse  him,  not  I ; and  if  it  fell  out  otherwise  than  I mean,  who 
can  help  it  ? Heaven  knows  my  heart.” 

“ That  is  honestly  said,”  answered  the  duchess  ; “ but  pray  tell  me,  Sancho,  what  was  it 
you  were  speaking  of  the  cave  of  Montesinos  ? I have  a great  mind  to  know  the  story.” 

Thereupon  Sancho  having  related  the  whole  matter  to  the  duchess,  “ Look  you,”  said  she, 

“ this  exactly  makes  out  what  I said  to  you  just  now ; for  since  the  great  Don  Quixote  affirms 
he  saw  there  the  same  country  wench  that  Sancho  met  coming  from  Toboso,  it  is  past  all 
doubt  it  was  Dulcinea  ; and  this  shows  the  enchanters  are  a subtle  sort  of  people,  that  will 
know  everything,  and  give  a quick  and  sure  information.” 

“Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “if  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  be  enchanted,  it  is  the  worse 
for  her.  What  have  I to  do  to  quarrel  with  all  my  master’s  enemies  ? They  can’t  be  few 

for  aught  I see,  and  they  are  plaguy  fellows  to  deal  withal.  Thus  much  I dare  say,  she  I 

saw  was  a country  wench  ; a country  wench  I took  her  to  be,  and  a country  wench  I left  her. 
Now  if  that  same  dowdy  was  Dulcinea  in  good  earnest,  how  can  I help  it  ? I ought  not  to 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


599 


be  called  to  an  account  for  it.  No,  let  the  saddle  be  set.  upon  the  right  horse,  or  we  shall 
ne’er  have  done.  Sancho  told  me  this,  cries  one ; Sancho  told  me  that,  cries  t’other  : Sancho 
o’  this  side,  Sancho  o’  that  side ; Sancho  did  this,  and  Sancho  did  that ; as  if  Sancho  were  I 
don’t  know  who,  and  not  the  same  Sancho  that  goes  already  far  and  near  through  the  world 
in  books,  as  Samson  Carrasco  tells  me,  and  he  is  no  less  than  a bachelor  of  arts  at  Salamanca 
’varsity ; and  such  folks  as  he  can’t  tell  a lie,  unless  they  be  so  disposed,  or  it  stands  them  in 
good  stead.  So  let  nobody  meddle  or  make,  nor  offer  to  pick  a quarrel  with  me  about  the 

matter,  since  I am  a man  of  reputation ; and  as  my  master  says,  ‘ a good  name  is  better  than 

riches.’  Clap  me  but  into  this  same  government  once,  and  you  shall  see  wonders.  He  that 
has  been  a good  servant  will  make  a good  master ; a trusty  squire  will  make  a rare  governor, 
I will  warrant  you.” 

“ Sancho  speaks  like  an  oracle,”  said  the  duchess  ; “ everything  he  says  is  a sentence  like 
those  of  Cato,  or  at  least  the  very  marrow  of  Michael  Verino  : Florentibus  occidit  annis — that 
is,  he  died  in  his  spring.  In  short,  to  speak  after  his  way,  ‘under  a bad  cloak  look  for  a good 
drinker.’  ” 

“ Faith  and  troth,  Madam  Duchess,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I never  drank  out  of  malice  in  my 
born  days  ; for  thirst  perhaps  I may  ; for  I have  not  a bit  of  hypocrisy  in  me.  I drink  when 

I have  occasion,  and  sometimes  when  I have  no  occasion  ; I am  no  proud  man,  d’ye  see,  and 

when  the  liquor  is  offered  me  I whip  it  off,  that  they  may  not  take  me  for  a churl  or  a sneaksby, 
or  think  I don’t  understand  myself  nor  good  manners  ; for  when  a friend  or  a good  fellow  drinks 
and  puts  the  glass  to  one,  who  can  be  so  hard-hearted  as  to  refuse  to  pledge  him,  when  it  costs 
nothing  but  to  open  one’s  mouth  ? However,  I commonly  look  before  I leap,  and  take  no  more 
than  needs  must.  And  truly  there’s  no  fear  that  we  poor  squires  to  knights-errant  should  be 
great  trespassers  that  way.  Alack  a day  ! mere  element  must  be  our  daily  beverage — ditch- 
water,  for  want  of  better— in  woods  and  deserts,  on  rocks  and  mountains,  without  lighting  on 
the  blessing  of  one  merciful  drop  of  wine,  though  you  would  give  one  of  your  eyes  for  a single 
gulp.” 

“ I believe  it,  Sancho,”  said  thg  duchess  ; “ but  now  it  grows  late,  and  therefore  go  and 
take  some  rest ; after  that  we’ll  have  a longer  conversation,  and  will  take  measures  about 
clapping  you  suddenly  into  this  same  government,  as  you  are  pleased  to  word  it.” 

Sancho  kissed  the  duchess’s  hand  once  more,  and  begged  her  worship's  grace  that  special 
care  might  be  taken  of  his  Dapple,  for  that  he  was  the  light  of  his  eyes. 

“ What  is  that  Dapple  ?”  asked  the  duchess. 

“ My  beast,  an  ’t  like  your  honour,”  answered  Sancho ; “ my  ass  I would  say,  saving  your 
presence ; but  because  I won’t  call  him  ass,  which  is  so  common  a name  among  men,  I call 
him  Dapple.  It  is  the  very  same  beast  I would  have  given  charge  of  to  that  same  gentle- 
woman when  I came  first  to  this  castle  ; but  her  temper  was  up  presently,  and  she  flew  out  as 
if  I had  called  her  ugly  face,  old  witch,  and  what  not.  However,  I’ll  be  judged  by  any  one 


6oo 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


whether  such  like  sober  grave  bodies  as  she  and  other  duennas  are  be  not  fitter  to  look  after 
asses  than  to  sit  with  a prim  countenance  to  grace  a fine  state  room.  Passion  of  my  heart  ? 
what  a deadly  grudge  a certain  gentleman  of  our  town,  that  shall  be  nameless,  had  to  these 
creatures  ! I mean,  these  old  waiting  gentlewomen.” 

“ Some  filthy  clown,  I dare  engage,”  said  Donna  Rodriguez,  the  duenna  ; “ had  he  been  a 
gentleman,  or  a person  of  good  breeding,  he  would  have  praised  them  up  to  the  skies.” 

“ Well,”  said  the  duchess,  “ let  us  have  no  more  of  that ; let  Donna  Rodriguez  hold  her 
tongue,  and  Signior  Sancho  Panza  go  to  his  repose,  and  leave  me  to  take  care  of  his  Dapple’s 
good  entertainment  ; for  since  I find  him  to  be  one  of  Sancho’s  movables,  I will  place  him  in 
my  esteem  above  the  apple  of  my  eye.” 

“ Place  him  in  the  stable,  my  good  lady,”  replied  Sancho ; “ that  is  as  much  as  he  deserves  ; 
neither  he  nor  I are  worthy  of  being  placed  a minute  of  an  hour  where  you  said.  Bless  me! 
I’d  sooner  be  stuck  with  a butcher’s  knife,  than  you  should  be  served  so  ; I am  better  bred 
than  that  comes  to  ; for  though  my  lord  and  master  has  taught  me  that  in  point  of  behaviour 
one  ought  rather  to  over-do  than  under-do,  yet  when  the  case  lies  about  an  ass  and  the  ball 
of  one’s  eye,  it  is  best  to  think  twice,  and  go  warily  about  the  matter." 

“ Well,”  said  the  duchess,  “ your  ass  may  go  with  you  to  the  government,  and  there  you 
may  feed  him,  and  pamper  him,  and  make  as  much  of  him  as  you  please.” 

“ Ah  ! my  lady,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ don’t  let  your  worship  think  this  will  be  such  a strange 
matter  neither.  I have  seen  more  asses  than  one  go  to  a government  before  now ; and  if  mine 
•goes  too,  it  will  be  no  new  thing,  I trow  ” 

Sancho’s  words  again  set  the  duchess  a-laughing ; and  so  sending  him  to  take  his  rest, 
she  went  to  the  duke,  and  gave  him  an  account  of  the  pleasant  discourse  between  her  and 
the  squire.  After  this  they  resolved  to  have  some  notable  contrivance  to  make  sport  with 
Don  Quixote,  and  of  such  a romantic  cast  as  should  humour  his  knight-errantry.  And  so 
successful  they  were  in  their  management  of  that  interlude,  that  it  may  well  be  thought  one 
of  the  best  adventures  in  this  famous  history. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

contaINING  ways  and  means  for  disenchanting  the  peerless  dulcinea  toboso>  ^ 

OF  THE  MOST  FAMOUS  ADVENTURES  IN  THE  WHOLE  BOOK. 

duke  and  duchess  were  extremely  diverted  with  the  humours  of  their  guests. 
“°  V'"g'  tlereore’  to  ,mProve  their  sport,  by  carrying  on  some  pleasant  design 

oAhltle  oT  M TPearanCe  °f  an  adV6ntUre’  11,67  t0°k  tHe  hiW  fr°m  °0n  ~ 

tainmen  h f ’ “ 3 ^ Wh''Ch  ^ raise  “ extraordinary  enter- 

to  b I'  ’ h6  n A SmCe’  t0  ^ dUCheSS’S  amazement-  Sancho’s  simplicity  was  so  creat  as 

o eheve  hat  DuIcmea  del  Toboso  _ rea„y  though  he  ^ had 

contriver  of  the  story,  and  her  only  enchanter. 

Accordingly,  having  given  directions  to  their  servants  that  nothing  miaht  be  wanting  and 

rr a z ,or  -f  • ■“  i«  “ z ^ „ « * z 

a train  of  huntsmen  and  other  attendants  not  unbecoming  the  neatest  D„W  TK 

r. r* ■“ * h“in‘ •* i“ i- "■  : ,,r: zr. 

76 


602 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


The  day  prefixed  being  come,  Don  Quixote  armed,  and  Sancho  equipped  himself  in  his 
new  suit,  and  mounting  his  ass,  which  he  would  not  quit  for  a good  horse  that  was  offered 
him,  he  crowded  in  among  the  train  of  sportsmen.  The  duchess  also,  in  a dress  both  odd 
and  gay,  made  one  of  the  company.  The  knight,  who  was  courtesy  itself,  very  gallantly  would 
needs  hold  the  reins  of  her  palfrey,  though  the  duke  seemed  very  unwilling  to  let  him.  In 
short,  they  came  to  the  scene  of  their  sport,  which  was  in  a wood  between  two  very  high 
mountains,  where,  alighting,  and  taking  their  several  stands,  the  duchess,  with  a pointed  javelin 
in  her  hand,  attended  by  the  duke  and  Don  Quixote,  took  her  stand  in  a place  where  they 
knew  the  boars  were  used  to  pass  through.  The  hunters  posted  themselves  in  several  lanes 
and  paths,  as  they  most  conveniently  could ; but  as  for  Sancho,  he  chose  to  stay  behind  them 
all  with  his  Dapple,  whom  he  would  by  no  means  leave  for  a moment,  for  fear  the  poor 
creature  should  meet  with  some  sad  accident. 

And  now  the  chase  began  with  full  cry,  the  dogs  opened,  the  horns  sounded,  and  the 
huntsmen  hallooed  in  so  loud  a concert,  that  there  was  no  hearing  one  another.  Soon  after, 
a hideous  boar,  of  a monstrous  size,  came  on,  gnashing  his  teeth  and  tusks,  and  foaming  at 
the  mouth  ; and,  being  baited  hard  by  the  dogs,  and  followed  close  by  the  huntsmen,  made 
furiously  towards  the  pass  which  Don  Quixote  had  taken  ; whereupon  the  knight,  grasping 
his  shield  and  drawing  his  sword,  moved  forward  to  receive  the  raging  beast.  The  duke 
joined  him  with  a boar-spear,  and  the  duchess  would  have  been  foremost,  had  not  the  duke 
prevented  her.  Sancho  alone,  seeing  the  furious  animal,  resolved  to  shift  far  one,  and  leaving 
Dapple,  away  he  scudded,  as  fast  as  his  legs  would  carry  him,  towards  a high  oak,  to  the 
top  of  which  he  endeavoured  to  clamber ; but,  as  he  was  getting  up,  one  of  the  boughs 
unluckily  broke,  and  down  he  was  tumbling,  when  a snag  or  stump  of  another  bough  caught 
hold  of  his  new  coat,  and  stopped  his  fall,  slinging  him  in  the  air  by  the  middle,  so  that  he 
could  neither  get  up  nor  down.  His  fine  green  coat  was  torn,  and  he  fancied  every  moment 
the  wild  boar  was  running  that  way,  with  foaming  chaps,  and  dreadful  tusks,  to  tear  him  to 
pieces ; which  so  disturbed  him,  that  he  roared  and  bellowed  for  help,  as  if  some  wild  beast 
had  been  devouring-  him  in  good  earnest. 

At  last  the  tusky  boar  was  laid  at  his  length,  with  a number  of  pointed  spears  fixed  in 
him  ; and  Dox  Quixote,  being  alarmed  by  Sancho’s  noise,  which  he  could  distinguish  easily, 
looked  about,  and  discovered  him  swinging  from  the  tree  with  his  head  downwards,  and  close 
by  him  poor  Dapple,  who,  like  a true  friend,  never  forsook  him  in  his  adversity ; for  Cid 
Hamet  observes,  that  they  were  such  true  and  inseparable  friends,  that  Sancho  was  seldom 
seen  without  Dapple,  or  Dapple  without  Sancho.  Don  Quixote  went  and  took  down  his 
squire,  w'ho,  as  soon  as  he  was  at  liberty,  began  to  examine  the  damage  his  fine  hunting  suit 
had  received,  which  grieved  him  to  the  soul  ; for  he  prized  it  as  much  as  if  it  had  made  him 
heir  to  an  estate. 

Meanwhile,  the  boar  being  laid  across  a large  mule,  and  covered  with  branches  of  rose- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


603 


mary  and  myrtle,  was  carried  in  triumph,  by  the  victorious  huntsmen,  to  a large  field-tent, 

pitched  in  the  middle  of  the  wood,  where  an  excellent  entertainment  was  provided,  suitable 

to  the  magnificence  of  the  founder. 

o 

Sancho  drew  near  the  duchess,  and  showing  her  his  torn  coat,  “ Had  we  been  hunting 
the  hare  now,  or  catching  of  sparrows,”  quoth  he,  “ my  coat  might  have  slept  in  a whole  skin. 
For  my  part,  I wonder  what  pleasure  there  can  be  in  beating  the  bushes  for  a beast  which, 
if  it  does  but  come  at  you,  will  run  its  plaguy  tusks  in  your  side,  and  be  the  death  of  you. 

I have  not  forgotten  an  old  song  to  this  purpose  : — 

“‘May  Fabila’s  sad  fate  be  thine, 

And  make  thee  food  for  bears  or  swine.'” 

“That  Fabila,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “was  a king  of  the  Goths,  who  going  a-hunting  once, 
was  devoured  by  a bear.” 

“ That  is  it,  I say,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ and,  therefore,  why  should  kings  and  other  great 
folks  run  themselves  into  harm’s  way,  when  they  may  have  sport  enough  without  it  ? Mercy 
on  me  ! what  pleasure  can  you  find,  any  of  you  all,  in  killing  a poor  beast  that  never  meant 
any  harm  ?” 

“You  are  mistaken,  Sancho,”  said  the  duke;  “hunting  wild  beasts  is  the  most  proper 
exercise  for  knights  and  princes  ; for  in  the  chase  of  a stout,  noble  beast  may  be  represented 
the  whole  art  of  war — stratagems,  policy,  and  ambuscades — with  all  other  devices  usually 
practised  to  overcome  an  enemy  with  safety.  Here  we  are  exposed  to  the  extremities  of 
heat  and  cold  ; ease  and  laziness  can  have  no  room  in  this  diversion  ; by  this  we  are  inured 
to  toil  and  hardship,  our  limbs  are  strengthened,  our  joints  made  supple,  and  our  whole  body 
hale  and  active.  In  short,  it  is  an  exercise  that  may  be  beneficial  to  many,  and  can  be 
prejudicial  to  none  ; and  the  most  enticing  property  is  its  rarity,  being  placed  above  the  reach 
of  the  vulgar,  who  may  indeed  enjoy  the  diversion  of  other  sorts  of  game,  but  not  this  nobler 
kind,  nor  that  of  hawking,  a sport  also  reserved  for  kings  and  persons  of  quality.  Therefore, 
Sancho,  let  me  advise  you  to  alter  your  opinion,  when  you  become  a governor ; for  then  you 
will  find  the  great  advantage  of  these  sports  and  diversions.” 

“You  are  out  far  wide,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho;  “it  were  better  that  a governor  had  his  legs 
broken,  and  be  laid  up  at  home,  than  to  be  gadding  abroad  at  this  rate.  It  would  be  a pretty 
business,  forsooth,  when  poor  people  come,  weary  and  tired,  to  wait  on  the  governor  about 

business,  that  he  should  be  rambling  about  the  woods  for  his  pleasure  ! There  would  be  a 

sweet  government  truly  ! Good  faith,  sir,  I think  these  sports  and  pastimes  are  fitter  for  those 

that  have  nothing  to  do  than  for  governors.  No  ; I intend  my  recreation  shall  be  a game  at 
whist  at  Christmas,  and  ninepins  on  holidays : but,  for  your  hunting,  as  you  call  it,  it  goes 
mightily  against  my  calling  and  conscience.” 

“ I wish,  with  all  my  heart,”  said  the  duke,  “ that  you  may  prove  as  good  as  you  promise ; 
but  saying  and  doing  are  different  things.” 


604 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Well,  well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ be  it  how  it  will,  I say  that  an  honest  man’s  word  is  as 
good  as  his  bond.  ‘ Heaven’s  help  is  better  than  early  rising.’  It  is  the  belly  makes  the 
feet  amble,  and  not  the  feet  the  belly.  My  meaning  is,  that,  with  Heaven’s  help,  and  my 
honest  endeavours,  I shall  govern  better  than  any  goshawk.  Do  but  put  your  finger  in  my 
mouth,  and  try  if  I cannot  bite.” 

“ A curse  on  thee,  and  thy  impertinent  proverbs,”  said  Don  Quixote  : “ shall  I never  get 
thee  to  talk  sense,  without  a string  of  that  disagreeable  stuff?  I beseech  your  graces,  do  not 
countenance  this  eternal  dunce,  or  he  will  tease  your  very  souls  with  a thousand  unseasonable 
and  insignificant  old  saws,  for  which  I wish  his  mouth  stitched  up,  and  myself  a mischief  if 
I hear  him.” 

“ Oh,  sir,”  said  the  duchess,  “ Sancho’s  proverbs  will  always  please  for  their  sententious 
brevity,  though  they  were  as  numerous  as  a printed  collection  ; and,  I assure  you,  I relish  them 
more  than  I would  do  others,  that  might  be  better  and  more  to  the  purpose.” 

After  this,  and  such  like  diverting  talk,  they  left  the  tent,  and  walked  into  the  wood,  to 
see  whether  any  game  had  fallen  into  their  nets.  Now,  while  they  were  thus  intent  upon  their 
sport,  the  night  drew  on  apace,  and  more  cloudy  and  overcast  than  was  usual  at  that  time  of 
the  year,  which  was  about  mid-summer,  but  it  happened  very  critically  for  the  better  carrying 
on  the  intended  contrivance.  A little  while  after  the  close  of  the  evening,  when  it  grew  quite 
dark,  in  a moment  the  wood  seemed  all  on  fire,  and  blazed  in  every  quarter.  This  was  attended 
with  an  alarming  sound  of  trumpets,  and  other  warlike  instruments,  answering  one  another 
from  all  sides,  as  if  several  parties  of  horse  had  been  hastily  marching  through  the  wood. 
Then  presently  was  heard  a confused  noise  of  Moorish  cries,  such  as  are  used  in  joining  battle ; 
which,  together  with  the  rattling  of  the  drums,  the  loud  sound  of  the  trumpets,  and  other 
instruments  of  war,  made  such  a hideous  and  dreadful  concert  in  the  air,  that  the  duke  was 
amazed,  the  duchess  astonished,  Don  Quixote  surprised,  and  Sancho  shook  like  a leaf;  and 
even  those  that  knew  the  occasion  of  all  this  were  affrighted. 

This  consternation  caused  a general  silence ; and,  by-and-by,  one  riding  post,  equipped 
very  strangely,  passed  by  the  company,  winding  a huge  hollow  horn,  that  made  a horrible 
hoarse  noise.  “ Hark  you,  post,”  said  the  duke,  “ whither  so  fast  ? what  are  you  ? and  what 
parties  of  soldiers  are  those  that  march  across  the  wood  ?” 

“ I am  one,”  cried  the  post,  in  a horrible  tone,  “ who  go  in  quest  of  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha  ; and  those  that  are  coming  this  way  are  six  bands  of  necromancers,  that  conduct 
the  peerless  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  enchanted  in  a triumphant  chariot.  She  is  attended  by 
that  gallant  French  knight,  Montesinos,  who  comes  to  give  information  how  she  may  be  freed 
from  enchantment.” 

“ Wert  thou  as  much  a deceiver,”  said  the  duke,  “ as  thy  shape  speaks  thee  to  be, 
thou  wouldst  have  known  this  knight  here  before  thee  to  be  that  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha 
whom  thou  seekest.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


605 

“Before  Heaven,  and  on  my  conscience,”  replied  the  man,  “I  never  thought  on  it;  for 
I have  so  many  things  in  my  head,  that  it  almost  distracts  me;  I had  quite  and  clean  forgotten 
my  errand.” 

“ Surely,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ this  man  must  be  a very  honest  fellow,  and  a good  Christian  ; 
for  he  swears  as  devoutly  by  Heaven  and  his  conscience  as  I should  do ; and  now  I am  apt 
to  believe  there  be  some  good  people  where  we  least  expect  them.” 

At  the  same  time,  the  man,  directing  himself  to  Don  Quixote,  without  dismounting,  “To  thee, 
O Knight  of  the  Lions,”  cried  he  (and  I wish  thee  fast  in  their  claws),  “ to  thee  am  I sent  by 
the  valiant  but  unfortunate  Montesinos,  to  bid  thee  attend  his  coming  in  this  very  place,  whither 
he  brings  one  whom  they  call  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  in  order  to  give  thee  instructions  touching 
her  disenchantment.  Nov/  I have  delivered  my  message,  I must  fly,  and  those  that  are  like 
me  be  with  thee,  and  angels  guard  the  rest.” 

This  said,  he  winded  his  monstrous  horn,  and,  without  staying  for  an  answer,  disappeared. 

This  increased  the  general  consternation,  but  most  of  all  surprised  Don  Quixote  and 
Sancho  ; the  latter  to  find  that,  in  spite  of  truth,  they  still  would  have  Dulcinea  to  be  enchanted, 
and  the  knight  to  think  that  the  adventures  of  the  cave  of  Montesinos  were  turned  to 
reality.  While  he  stood  pondering  these  things  in  his  thoughts,  “Well,  sir,”  said  the  duke 
to  him,  “what  do  you  intend  to  do?  will  you  stay?” 

“Stay!”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “shall  I not?  I will  stay  here,  intrepid  and  courageous, 
though  all  the  powers  enclose  me  round.” 

“ So  you  may,  if  you  will,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but,  if  any  more  men  or  horns  come  hither, 
they  shall  as  soon  find  me  in  Flanders  as  here.” 

Now  the  night  grew  darker  and  darker,  and  several  shooting  lights  were  seen  glancing 
up  and  down  the  wood,  like  meteors  or  glaring  exhalations  from  the  earth.  Then  was  heard 
a horrid  noise,  like  the  creaking  of  the  ungreased  wheels  of  heavy  wagons,  from  which  piercing 
and  ungrateful  sound  bears  and  wolves  themselves  are  said  to  fly.  This  odious  jarring  was 
presently  seconded  by  a greater,  which  seemed  to  be  the  dreadful  din  and  shocks  of  four  several 
engagements,  in  each  quarter  of  the  wood,  with  all  the  sounds  and  hurry  of  so  many  joined 
battles.  On  one  side  were  heard  several  peals  of  cannon  ; on  the  other,  the  discharging  of 
numerous  volleys  of  small  shot ; here  the  shouts  of  the  engaging  parties  that  seemed  to  be 
near  at  hand;  there,  cries  of  the  Moors,  that  seemed  at  a great  distance.  In  short,  the  strange, 
confused  intermixture  of  drums,  trumpets,  cornets,  horns,  the  thundering  of  the  cannon,  the 
rattling  of  the  small  shot,  the  creaking  of  the  wheels,  and  the  cries  of  the  combatants,  made 
the  most  dismal  noise  imaginable,  and  tried  Don  Quixote’s  courage  to  the  uttermost.  But  poor 
Sancho  was  annihilated,  and  fell  into  a swoon  upon  the  duchess’s  skirts,  who,  taking  care  of 
him,  and  ordering  some  water  to  be  sprinkled  on  his  face,  at  last  recovered  him,  just  as  the 
foremost  of  the  creaking  carriages  came  up,  drawn  by  four  heavy  oxen,  covered  with  mourning, 
and  carrying  a large  lighted  torch  upon  each  horn.  On  the  top  of  the  cart  or  wagon  was  an 


6o6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


exalted  seat,  on  which  sat  a venerable  old  man,  with  a beard  as  white  as  snow,  and  so  long 
that  it  reached  down  to  his  girdle.  He  was  clad  in  a long  gown  of  black  buckram,  as  were 
also  two  that  drove  the  wagons,  both  so  very  monstrous  and  ugly,  that  Sancho,  having  seen 
them  once,  was  forced  to  shut  his  eyes,  and  would  not  venture  upon  a second  look. 

The  cart,  which  was  stuck  full  of  lights  within,  being  approached  to  the  standing,  the 
reverend  old  man  stood  up,  and  cried  with  a loud  voice,  “ I am  the  Sage  Lirgander;”  and  the 
cart  passed  on  without  one  word  more  being  spoken. 

Then  followed  another  cart,  with  another  grave  old  man,  who  making  the  cart  stop  at 
a convenient  distance,  rose  up  from  his  high  seat,  and,  in  as  deep  a tone  as  the  first,  cried, 
“I  am  the  Sage  Alquife,  great  friend  to  Urganda  the  Unknown;”  and  so  went  forward. 

He  was  succeeded  by  a third  cart,  that  moved  in  the  same  solemn  pace,  and  bore  a person 
not  so  ancient  as  the  rest,  but  a robust  and  sturdy,  sour-looking,  ill-favoured  fellow,  who  rose 
up  from  his  throne,  like  the  rest,  and  with  a more  hollow  and  diabolical  voice,  cried  out,  “ I am 
Archelaus  the  Enchanter,  the  mortal  enemy  of  Amadis  de  Gaul,  and  all  his  race  this  said, 
he  passed  by  like  the  other  carts,  which,  taking  a short  turn,  made  a halt,  and  the  grating 
noise  of  the  wheels  ceasing,  an  excellent  concert  of  sweet  music  was  heard,  which  mightily  com- 
forted poor  Sancho,  and  passing  with  him  for  a good  omen,  “ My  lady,”  quoth  he  to  the 
duchess,  from  whom  he  would  not  budge  an  inch,  “ there  can  be  no  mischief  sure  where  there 
is  music.” 

“ We  shall  know  presently  what  this  will  come  to,”  said  Don  Quixote ; and  he  said  right, 
for  you  will  find  it  in  the  next  chapter. 


CHAPTER  XXXV. 

WHEREIN  IS  CONTAINED  THE  INFORMATION  GIVEN  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  HOW  TO  DISENCHANT  DULCINEA, 

WITH  OTHER  WONDERFUL  PASSAGES. 

Wr HEN  the  pleasant  music  drew  near,  there  appeared  a stately  triumphal  chariot,  drawn 
by  six  dun  mules,  covered  with  white,  upon  each  of  which  sat  a penitent,  clad 
also  in  white,  and  holding  a great  lighted  torch  in  his  hand.  The  carriage  was  twice  or  thrice 
longer  than  any  of  the  former,  twelve  other  penitents  being  placed  at  the  top  and  sides,  all  in 
white,  and  bearing  likewise  each  a lighted  torch,  which  made  a dazzling  and  surprising  appearance. 
There  was  a high  throne  erected  at  the  farther  end,  on  which  sat  a nymph  arrayed  in  cloth 
of  silver,  with  many  golden  spangles  glittering  all  about  her,  which  made  her  dress,  though  not 
rich,  appear  very  glorious.  Her  face  was  covered  with  transparent  gauze,  through  the  flowing 
folds  of  which  might  be  descried  a most  beautiful  face  ; and,  by  the  great  light  which  the  torches 
gave,  it  was  easy  to  discern  that,  as  she  was  not  less  than  seventeen  years  of  age,  neither  could 
she  be  thought  above  twenty.  Close  by  her  was  a figure,  clad  in  a long  gown,  like  that  of  a 
magistrate,  reaching  down  to  its  feet,  and  its  head  covered  with  a black  veil.  When  they 
came  directly  opposite  to  the  company,  the  shawms  or  hautboys  that  played  before  immediately 
ceased,  and  the  Spanish  harps  and  lutes,  that  were  in  the  chariot,  did  the  like  ; then  the  figure 
in  the  gown  stood  up,  and,  opening  its  garments,  and  throwing  away  its  mourning  veil,  discovered 
a bare  and  frightful  skeleton,  that  represented  the  deformed  figure  of  Death,  which  startled 
Don  Quixote,  made  Sancho’s  bones  rattle  in  his  skin  for  fear,  and  caused  the  duke  and  the 


The  figure  in  the  gown  stood  up.” — -p.  607. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


609 


duchess  to  seem  more  than  commonly  disturbed.  This  living  Death  being  thus  got  up,  in 
a dull,  heavy,  sleeping  tone,  as  if  its  tongue  had  not  been  well  awake,  began  in  this  manner  : — 

MERLIN’S  SPEECH. 


Behold  old  Merlin,  in  romantic  writ  I 

Miscall’d  the  spurious  progeny  of  hell ; 

A falsehood  current  with  the  stamp  of  age  ; 

I reign  the  prince  of  Zoroastic  science, 

That  oft  evokes  and  rates  the  rigid  powers  : 

Archive  of  Fate's  dread  records  in  the  skies, 

Coevous  with  the  chivalry  of  yore  ; 

All  brave  knights-errant  still  I’ve  deem’d  my  charge, 

Heirs  of  my  love,  and  fav’rites  of  my  charms. 

While  other  magic  seers,  averse  from  good, 

Are  dire  and  baleful  like  the  seat  of  woe, 

My  nobler  soul,  where  power  and  pity  join, 

Diffuses  blessings,  as  they  scatter  plagues. 

Deep  in  the  nether  world,  the  dreary  caves. 

Where  my  retreated  soul,  in  silent  state, 

Forms  mystic  figures  and  tremendous  spells, 

I heard  the  peerless  Dulcinea’s  moans. 

Apprised  of  her  distress,  her  frightful  change, 

From  princely  state,  and  beauty  near  divine, 

To  the  vile  semblance  of  a rustic  wench, 

The  dire  misdeed  of  necromantic  hate, 

I sympathised,  and  awfully  revolved 

Twice  fifty  thousand  scrolls,  occult  and  loath’d, 


Some  of  my  art,  hell’s  black  philosophy  ; 

Then  closed  my  soul  within  this  bony  trunk, 

This  ghastly  form,  the  ruins  of  a man  ; 

And  rise  in  pity  to  reveal  a cure 

To  woes  so  great,  and  break  the  cursed  spell. 

Oh,  glory,  thou,  of  all  that  e’er  could  grace 
A coat  of  steel,  and  fence  of  adamant ! 

Light,  lantern,  path,  and  polar  star  and  guide 
To  all  who  dare  dismiss  ignoble  sleep, 

And  downy  ease,  for  exercise  of  arms, 

For  toils  continual,  perils,  wounds  and  blood  ! 
Knight  of  unfathom’d  worth,  abyss  of  praise, 

Who  blend’st  in  one  the  prudent  and  the  brave  : 

To  thee,  great  Quixote,  I this  truth  declare  ; 

That,  to  restore  her  to  her  state  and  form, 

Toboso’s  pride,  the  peerless  Dulcinea, 

’Tis  Fate’s  decree,  that  Sancho,  thy  good  squire, 

On  his  bare  brawny  quarters  should  bestow 
Three  thousand  lashes,  and  eke  three  hundred  more, 
Each  to  afflict  and  sting,  and  gall  him  sore  ; 

So  shall  relent  the  authors  of  her  woes, 

Whose  awful  will  I for  her  ease  disclose. 


“Bless  me!”  quoth  Sancho;  “three  thousand  lashes!  I will  not  give  myself  three;  I will 
as  soon  give  myself  three  stabs  in  the  stomach.  Passion  of  my  heart ! Mr.  Merlin,  if  you 
have  no  better  way  for  disenchanting  the  Lady  Dulcinea,  she  may  even  lie  bewitched  to  her 
dying  day  for  me.” 

“ How  now,  opprobrious  rascal  !”  cried  Don  Quixote.  “ Sirrah,  I will  take  you  and  tie  your 
dogship  to  a tree,  and  there  I will  not  only  give  you  three  thousand  three  hundred  lashes, 
but  six  thousand  six  hundred,  ye  varlet ! and  so  smartly,  that  you  shall  feel  them  still,  though 
you  rub  your  body  three  thousand  times,  scoundrel !” 

“Hold,  hold!”  cried  Merlin,  hearing  this,  “this  must  not  be;  the  stripes  inflicted  on 
honest  Sancho  must  be  voluntary,  and  only  laid  on  when  he  thinks  most  convenient.  No  set 
time  is  fixed  for  the  task  ; and  if  he  has  a mind  to  have  abated  one  half  of  this  atonement,  it 
is  allowed,  provided  the  remaining  stripes  be  struck  by  a strange  hand,  and  heavily  laid  on.” 

“Hold  you  there,”  quoth  Sancho;  “neither  a strange  hand  nor  my  own,  heavy  or  light, 
shall  touch  me.  Let  my  master  Don  Quixote  whip  himself ; as  for  any  whipping  of  me,  I 
refuse  it  flat  and  plain.” 

No  sooner  had  Sancho  thus  spoken  his  mind,  than  the  nymph  that  sat  by  Merlin’s  ghost 

in  the  glittering  apparel,  rising,  and  lifting  up  her  thin  veil,  discovered  a very  beautiful  face  ; 

and  with  a masculine  grace,  and  no  very  agreeable  voice,  addressing  Sancho,  “ Oh,  thou 

77 


6io 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


disastrous  squire,”  said  she  ; “ thou  lump,  with  no  more  soul  than  a broken  pitcher,  heart  of 
cork,  and  bowels  of  flint!  Hadst  thou  been  commanded,  base  sheep-stealer!  to  have  thrown 
thyself  headlong  from  the  top  of  a high  tower  to  the  ground ; hadst  thou  been  desired,  enemy 
of  mankind ! to  have  swallowed  a dozen  of  toads,  two  dozen  of  lizards,  and  three  dozen  of 
snakes  ; or  hadst  thou  been  requested  to  have  butchered  thy  wife  and  children,  I should  not 
wonder  that  it  had  turned  thy  squeamish  stomach ; but  to  make  such  a hesitation  at  three 
thousand  three  hundred  stripes,  which  every  puny  schoolboy  makes  nothing  of  receiving 
every  month,  it  is  amazing,  nay,  astonishing  to  the  tender  and  commiserating  feelings  of  all 
that  hear  thee,  and  will  be  a blot  in  thy  escutcheon  to  all  futurity.  Look  up,  thou  wretched 
and  marble-hearted  animal ! look  up,  and  fix  thy  huge,  lowering  goggle-eyes  upon  the  bright 
luminaries  of  my  sight.  Behold  these  briny  torrents,  which,  streaming  down,  furrow  the 
flowery  meadows  of  my  cheeks.  Relent,  base  and  inexorable  monster — relent ; let  thy  savage 
breast  confess  at  last  a sense  of  my  distress,  and,  moved  with  the  tenderness  of  my  youth, 
that  consumes  and  withers  in  this  vile  transformation,  crack  this  sordid  shell  of  rusticity  that 
envelopes  my  blooming  charms.  In  vain  has  the  goodness  of  Merlin  permitted  me  to  re-assume 
a while  my  native  shape,  since  neither  that  nor  the  tears  of  beauty  in  affliction,  which  are  said 
to  reduce  obdurate  rocks  to  the  softness  of  cotton,  and  tigers  to  the  tenderness  of  lambs,  are 
sufficient  to  melt  thy  haggard  breast.  Scourge,  scourge  that  brawny  hide  of  thine,  stubborn 
and  unrelenting  brute — that  coarse  enclosure  of  thy  coarser  soul  ; and  rouse  up  thus  thyself 
from  that  base  sloth  that  makes  thee  live  only  to  eat  and  pamper  thy  lazy  flesh,  indulging  still 
thy  voracious  appetite.  But  if  my  entreaties  and  tears  cannot  work  thee  into  a reasonable 

compliance,  if  I am  not  yet  sufficiently  wretched  to  move  thy  pity,  at  least  let  the  anguish  of 

that  miserable  knight,  thy  tender  master,  mollify  thy  heart.” 

“What  is  your  answer  now,  Sancho  ?”  said  the  duchess. 

“ I say,  as  I said  before,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ as  for  the  flogging,  I pronounce  it  flat  and  plain.” 

“ Renounce,  you  mean,”  said  the  duke. 

“ Good,  your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ this  is  no  time  for  me  to  mind  niceties  and  spelling 
of  letters  : I have  other  fish  to  fry.  This  plaguy  whipping-bout  makes  me  quite  distracted. 
I do  not  know  what  to  say  or  do  ; but  I would  fain  know  of  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso 
where  she  picked  up  this  kind  of  breeding,  to  beg  thus  like  a sturdy  beggar  ! Here  she  comes, 
to  desire  me  to  lash  myself  as  raw  as  a piece  of  beef,  and  the  best  word  she  can  give  is, 

‘ soul  of  a broken  pitcher,’  ‘ monster,’  ‘ brute,’  ‘ sheep-stealer,’  with  a ribble-rabble  of  saucy  nick- 
names, that  any  one  would  object  to  bear.  Do  you  think,  mistress  of  mine,  that  my  skin 
is  made  of  brass  ? Or  shall  I get  anything  by  your  disenchantment  ? Beshrew  her  heart ! 
where  is  the  fine  present  she  has  brought  along  with  her  to  soften  me  ? A basket  of  fine 
linen,  holland  shirts,  caps,  and  socks  (though  I wear  none),  had  been  somewhat  like;  but  to 
fall  upon  me  and  bespatter  me  thus  with  dirty  names,  do  you  think  that  will  do  ? No,  in  faith. 
Remember  the  old  sayings,  ‘ A golden  load  makes  the  burden  light ;’  ‘^Gifts  will  enter  stone 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


6l  I 

walls.’  Nay,  my  master  too,  who  one  would  think  should  tell  me  a fine  story,  and  coax  me 
up  with  dainty  sugar-plum  words,  talks  of  tying  me  to  a tree,  forsooth,  and  of  doubling  the 
whipping!  Methinks  those  troublesome  people  should  know  who  they  prate  to.  It  is  not  only 
a squire-errant  they  would  have  to  whip  himself,  but  a governor  ! and  there  is  no  more  to  do, 
think  they,  but  up  and  ride.  Let  them  even  learn  manners.  There  is  a time  for  some  things, 
and  a time  for  all  things  ; a time  for  great  things,  and  a time  for  small  things.  Am  I now  in 
a humour  to  hear  petitions,  do  you  think  ? Just  when  my  heart  is  ready  to  burst  for  having 
torn  my  new  coat,  they  would  have  me  tear  my  own  flesh  too.” 

“ Upon  my  honour,  Sancho,”  said  the  duke,  “ if  you  do  not  relent,  you  shall  have  no 
government.  It  would  be  a fine  thing,  indeed,  that  I should  send  among  my  islanders  a 
merciless,  hard-hearted  tyrant,  whom  neither  the  tears  of  distressed  damsels  nor  the  admonitions 
of  wise,  ancient,  and  powerful  enchanters  can  move  to  compassion.  In  short,  sir,  no  stripes,  no 
government.” 

“ But,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ may  not  I have  a day  or  two  to  consider  on  it  ?” 

“Not  a minute,”  cried  Merlin  ; “ you  must  declare  now,  and  in  this  very  place,  what  you 
resolve  to  do,  for  Dulcinea  must  be  again  transformed  into  a country  wench,  and  carried  back 
immediately  to  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  there  to  remain  till  the  number  of  stripes  be  made 
out.” 

“ Come,  come,  honest  Sancho,”  said  the  duchess,  “ pluck  up  a good  courage,  and  show 
your  gratitude  to  your  master,  whose  bread  you  have  eaten,  and  to  whose  generous  nature 
and  high  feats  of  chivalry  we  are  all  so  much  obliged.” 

“ Hark  you,  Mr.  Merlin,”  quoth  Sancho,  without  giving  the  duchess  an  answer;  “pray, 

will  you  tell  me  one  thing  ? How  comes  it  about  that  this  same  man  that  came  before 

you  brought  my  master  word  from  Signior  Montesinos  that  he  would  be  here,  and  give  him 
directions  about  this  disenchantment,  and  yet  we  hear  no  news  of  Montesinos  all  this  while  ?” 

“Pshaw!”  answered  Merlin,  “the  fellow  is  an  ass  and  a lying  rascal;  he  came  from  me, 
and  not  from  Montesinos ; for  he,  poor  man ! is  still  in  his  cave,  expecting  the  dissolution  of 
the  spell  that  confines  him  there  yet.  But  if  he  owes  you  any  money,  or  you  have  any 
business  with  him,  he  shall  be  forthcoming  when  and  where  you  please.  Now,  pray  make  an 
end,  and  undergo  this  small  penance ; it  will  do  you  a world  of  good,  as  a healthy  exercise ; 

for  you  are  of  a very  sanguine  complexion,  Sancho,  and  losing  a little  blood  will  do  you  no 

harm.” 

“ Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ there  is  like  to  be  no  want  of  physicians  in  this  world,  I find ; 
the  very  conjurors  set  up  for  doctors  too.  Then,  since  everybody  says  as  much  (though  I 
can  hardly  believe  it),  I am  content  to  give  myself  the  three  thousand  three  hundred  stripes, 
upon  condition  that  I may  be  paying  them  off  as  long  as  I please ; observe  that  : though  I 
will  be  out  of  debt  as  soon  as  I can,  that  the  world  may  not  be  without  the  pretty  face  of 
the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  which,  I must  own,  I could  never  have  believed  to  have  been 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


6l  2 

so  handsome.  Mr.  Merlin  (because  he  knows  all  things)  shall  be  obliged  to  reckon  the  lashes, 
and  take  care  I do  not  give  myself  one  more  than  the  tale.” 

“ There  is  no  fear  of  that,”  said  Merlin ; “ for  at  the  very  last  lash  the  Lady  Dulcinea 
will  be  disenchanted,  come  straight  to  you,  make  you  a curtsey,  and  give  you  thanks.  Heaven 
forbid  I should  wrong  any  man  of  the  least  hair  of  his  head.” 

“ Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ what  must  be,  must  be ; I yield  to  my  hard  luck,  and  on  the 
aforesaid  terms  take  up  with  my  penance.” 

Scarcely  had  Sancho  spoken,  when  the  music  struck  up  again,  and  a congratulatory  volley 
of  small  shot  was  immediately  discharged.  Don  Quixote  fell  on  Sancho’s  neck,  hugging  and 
kissing  him  a thousand  times.  The  duke,  the  duchess,  and  the  whole  company  seemed  mightily 
pleased.  The  chariot  moved  on,  and  as  it  passed  by  the  fair  Dulcinea  made  the  duke  and 
duchess  a bow,  and  Sancho  a low  curtsey. 

And  now  the  morn  began  to  spread  her  smiling  looks  in  the  eastern  quarter  of  the  skies, 
and  the  flowers  of  the  field  to  disclose  their  bloomy  folds,  and  raise  their  fragrant  heads.  The 
brooks,  now  cool  and  clear,  in  gentle  murmurs,  played  with  the  grey  pebbles,  and  flowed  along 
to  pay  their  liquid  crystal  tribute  to  the  expectirg  rivers.  The  sky  was  clear,  the  air  serene, 
swept  clean  by  brushing  winds  for  the  reception  of  the  shining  light,  and  everything,  not  only 
jointly,  but  in  its  separate  gaiety,  welcomed  the  fair  Aurora,  and,  like  her,  foretold  a fairer  day. 

1 The  duke  and  duchess,  well  pleased  with  the  management  and  success  of  the  hunting,  and  the 
: counterfeit  adventure,  returned  to  the  castle,  resolving  to  make  a second  essay  of  the  same 
nature,  having  received  as  much  pleasure  from  the  first  as  any  reality  could  have  produced. 


CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

THE  STRANGE  AND  NEVER  THOUGHT-OF  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  DISCONSOLATE  MATRON,  ALIAS  THE 
COUNTESS  TR1FALDI,  WITH  SANCHO  PANZA’S  LETTER  TO  HIS  WIFE,  TERESA  PANZA. 

THE  whole  contrivance  of  the  late  adventure  was  plotted  by  the  duke's  steward,  a man 
of  wit,  and  a facetious  and  quick  fancy.  He  made  the  verses,  acted  Merlin  himself, 

and  instructed  a page  to  personate  Dulcinea.  And  now,  by  his  master's  appointment,  he  prepared 

another  scene  of  mirth,  as  pleasant  and  as  artful  and  surprising  as  can  be  imagined.^ 

The  next  day  the  duchess  asked  Sancho  whether  he  had  begun  his  penitential  task,  to 

disenchant  Dulcinea. 

“Ay,  marry  have  I,”  quoth  Sancho,  “for  I have  already  lent  myself  five  lashes  on  the 
back.” 

“With  what,  friend  ?”  asked  the  duchess. 

“With  the  palm  of  my  hand,”  answered  Sanchc. 

“Your  hand!’’  said  the  duchess;  “those  are  rather  claps  than  lashes,  Sancho;  I doubt 
Father  Merlin  will  not  be  satisfied  at  so  easy  a rate ; for  the  liberty  of  so  great  a lady  is  not 
to  be  purchased  at  so  mean  a price.  No,  you  should  lash  yourself  with  something  that  may 

make  you  smart ; a good  friar’s  scourge,  a cat-of-nine-tails,  or  penitent’s  whip,  would  do  well  ; 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  ' 

for  letters  written  in  blood  stand  good ; but  works  of  charity  faintly  and  coldly  done,  lose  their 
merit  and  signify  nothing.” 

“ Then,  madam,”  quoth  he,  “ will  your  worship’s  grace  do  so  much  as  help  me  to  a con- 
venient rod,  such  as  you  shall  think  best ; though  it  must  not  be  too  smarting,  neither ; for 
faith,  though  I am  a clown,  my  flesh  is  as  soft  as  any  one’s  in  the  land,  no  disparagement 
to  anybody,  either.” 

“ Well,  well,  Sancho,”  said  she,  “ it  shall  be  my  care  to  provide  you  a whip  that  shall 
suit  your  soft  constitution,  as  if  they  were  twins.” 

“ But  now,  my  dear  madam,”  quoth  he,  “ you  must  know  I have  written  a letter  to  my 
wife,  Teresa  Panza,  to  give  her  to  understand  how  things  are  with  me.  I have  it  in  my 
bosom,  and  it  is  just  ready  to  send  away ; it  wants  nothing  but  the  direction  on  the  outside. 
Now  I would  have  your  wisdom  to  read  it,  and  see  if  it  be  not  written  like  a governor ; I 
mean,  in  such  a style  as  governors  should  write.” 

“ And  who  penned  it  ?”  asked  the  duchess. 

“What  a question  that  is  now!”  quoth  Sancho.  “Who  should  pen  it  but  myself,  sinner 
as  I am  ?” 

“ And  did  you  write  it  too  ?”  said  the  duchess. 

“ Not  I,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ for  I can  neither  write  nor  read,  though  I can  make  my  mark.” 

“ Let  me  see  the  letter,”  said  the  duchess ; “ for  I dare  say  your  wit  is  set  out  in  it  to 
„ • 

some  purpose. 

Sancho  pulled  the  letter  out  of  his  bosom  unsealed,  and  the  duchess  having  taken  it,  read 
what  follows. 

“ Sancho  Panza  to  his  Wife , Teresa  Panza. 

“ If  I am  well  lashed,  yet  I am  whipped  into  a government : if  I have  got  a good  govern- 
ment, it  cost  me  many  a good  lash.  Thou  must  know,  my  Teresa,  that  I am  resolved  thou 
shalt  ride  in  a coach ; for  now,  any  other  way  of  going  is  to  me  but  creeping  on  all-fours,  like 
a kitten.  Thou  art  now  a governor’s  wife ; guess  whether  any  one  will  dare  to  tread  on  thy 
heels.  I have  sent  thee  a green  hunting-suit  which  my  lady  duchess  gave  me.  Pray  see 
and  get  it  turned  into  a petticoat  and  jacket  for  our  daughter.  The  folks  in  this  country 
are  very  ready  to  talk  little  good  of  my  master,  Don  Quixote.  They  say  he  is  a mad-wise- 
man,  and  a pleasant  madman,  and  that  I am  not  a jot  behind-hand  with  him.  We  have  been 
in  the  cave  of  Montesinos,and  Merlin  the  wizard  has  pitched  on  me  to  disenchant  Dulcinea 
del  Toboso,  the  same  who  among  you  is  called  Aldonza  Lorenzo.  When  I have  given  myself 
three  thousand  three  hundred  lashes,  lacking  five,  she  will  be  as  disenchanted  as  the  mother 
that  bore  her.  But  not  a word  of  the  pudding  ; for  if  you  tell  your  case  among  a parcel  of 
tattling  gossips,  you  will  never  have  done ; one  will  cry  it  is  white,  and  others  it  is  black. 
1 am  to  go  to  my  government  very  suddenly,  whither  I go  with  a huge  mind  to  make  money, 
as  I am  told  all  new  governors  do.  I will  first  see  how  matters  go,  and  then  send  thee  word 


6 1 6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


whether  thou  hadst  best  come  or  no.  Dapple  is  well,  and  gives  his  humble  service  to  you. 
I will  not  part  with  him,  though  I were  to  be  made  the  Great  Turk.  My  lady  duchess  kisses 

thy  hands  a thousand  times  over ; pray  return  her  two  thousand  for  her  one  : for  there  is 

nothing  cheaper  than  fair  words,  as  my  master  says.  Heaven  has  not  been  pleased  to  make 
me  light  on  another  cloak-bag,  with  a hundred  pieces  of  gold  in  it,  like  those  you  wot  of.  But 
all  in  good  time  : do  not  let  that  vex  thee,  my  jug ; the  government  will  make  it  up,  I will 
warrant  thee.  Though  after  all,  one  thing  sticks  plaguily  in  my  gizzard  : they  tell  me,  that 
when  once  I have  tasted  of  it,  I shall  be  ready  to  eat  my  very  fingers  after  it,  so  savoury  is 
the  sauce.  Should  it  fall  out  so,  I should  make  but  an  ill  hand  of  it ; and  yet  your  maimed, 
crippled  alms-folks  pick  up  a pretty  livelihood,  and  make  their  begging  as  good  as  a prebend. 
So  that,  one  way  or  other,  old  girl,  matters  will  go  swimmingly,  and  thou  wilt  be  rich  and 

happy.  Heaven  make  thee  so,  as  well  as  it  may  ; and  keep  me  for  thy  sake.  From  this 

castle,  the  20th  of  June,  1614. — Thy  husband  the  Governor,  0 t-,  „ 

“ Methinks,  Mr.  Governor,”  said  the  duchess,  having  read  the  letter,  “ you  are  out  in  two 
particulars  ; first,  when  you  intimate  that  this  government  was  bestowed  on  you  for  the  stripes 
you  are  to  give  yourself ; whereas  you  may  remember  it  was  allotted  you  before  this  disenchant- 
ment was  dreamed  of.  The  second  branch  that  you  failed  in  is  the  discovery  of  your  avarice, 
which  is  the  most  detestable  quality  in  governors ; because  their  self-interest  is  always  indulged 
at  the  expense  of  justice.  You  know  the  saying,  ‘ Covetousness  breaks  the  sack,’  and  that  vice 
always  prompts  a governor  to  fleece  and  oppress  the  subject.” 

“Truly,  my  good  lady,”  quoth  Sancho,  “I  meant  no  harm:  I did  not  well  think  of  what 
I wrote  ; and  if  your  grace’s  worship  does  not  like  this  letter,  I will  tear  it  and  have  another : 
but  remember  the  old  saying,  ‘ Seldom  comes  a better.’  I shall  make  but  sad  work  of  it,  if  I 
must  pump  my  brains  for  it.” 

“ No,  no,”  said  the  duchess ; “ this  will  do  well  enough,  and  I must  have  the  duke  see  it.” 

They  went  into  the  garden,  where  they  were  to  dine  that  day,  and  there  she  showed  the 

duke  the  learned  epistle,  which  he  read  over  with  a great  deal  of  pleasure. 

After  dinner  Sancho  was  entertaining  the  company  very  pleasantly,  with  some  of  his 

savoury  discourse,  when  suddenly  they  were  surprised  with  the  mournful  sound  of  a fife,  which 

played  in  concert  with  a hoarse,  unbraced  drum.  All  the  company  seemed  amazed  and  discom- 
posed at  the  unpleasing  noise  ; but  Don  Quixote  especially  was  so  alarmed  with  this  solemn 
martial  harmony,  that  he  could  not  compose  his  thoughts.  Sancho’s  fear  undoubtedly  wrought 
the  usual  effects,  and  carried  him  to  crouch  by  the  duchess. 

During  this  consternation,  two  men,  in  deep  mourning-cloaks  trailing  on  the  ground, 
entered  the  garden,  each  of  them  beating  a large  drum,  covered  also  with  black,  and  with 
these  a third  playing  on  a fife,  in  mourning  like  the  rest.  They  ushered  in  a person  of 
gigantic  stature,  to  which  the  long  black  garb  in  which  he  was  wrapped  up  was  no  small 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


617 

addition.  It  had  a train  of  a prodigious  length,  and  over  the  cassock  was  girt  a broad  black 
belt,  which  slung  a scimitar  of  a mighty  size.  His  face  was  covered  with  a thin  black  veil, 
through  which  might  be  discerned  a beard  of  a vast  length,  as  white  as  snow.  The  solemnity 
of  his  pace  kept  exact  time  to  the  gravity  of  the  music  : in  short,  his  stature,  his  motion,  his 
black  hue,  and  his  attendance  were  every  way  surprising  and  astonishing.  With  this  state 
and  formality  he  approached,  and  fell  on  his  knees  at  a convenient  distance  before  the  duke  ; 
who  not  suffering  him  to  speak  till  he  arose,  the  monstrous  spectre  erected  his  bulk,  and 
throwing  off  his  veil,  discovered  the  most  terrible,  hugeous,  white,  broad,  prominent,  bushy 
beard  that  ever  mortal  eyes  were  frighted  at.  Then  fixing  his  eyes  on  the  duke,  and  with 
a deep,  sonorous  voice,  roaring  out  from  the  ample  cavern  of  his  spreading  lungs — 

“ Most  high  and  potent  lord,”  cried  he,  “my  name  is  Trifaldin  with  the  white  beard,  squire 
to  the  Countess  Trifaldi,  otherwise  called  the  Disconsolate  Matron,  from  whom  I am  ambassador 
to  your  grace,  begging  admittance  for  her  ladyship  to  come  and  relate,  before  your  magnificence, 
the  unhappy  and  wonderful  circumstances  of  her  misfortune.  But  first,  she  desires  to  be  informed 
whether  the  valorous  and  invincible  knight,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  resides  at  this  time 
in  your  castle  ; for  it  is  in  quest  of  him  that  my  lady  has  travelled  without  coach  or  palfrey, 
hungry  and  thirsty  ; and,  in  short,  without  breaking  her  fast,  from  the  kingdom  of  Candaya, 
all  the  way  to  these  your  grace’s  territories — a thing  incredibly  miraculous,  if  not  wrought 
by  enchantment.  She  is  now  without  the  gate  of  this  castle,  waiting  only  for  your  grace’s 
permission  to  enter.” 

This  said,  the  squire  coughed,  and  with  both  his  hands  stroked  his  unwieldy  beard  from 
the  top  to  the  bottom,  and  with  a formal  gravity  waited  the  duke’s  answer. 

“Worthy  Squire  Trifaldin  with  the  white  beard,”  said  the  duke,  “long  since  have  we 
heard  of  the  misfortunes  of  the  Countess  Trifaldi,  whom  enchanters  have  occasioned  to  be 
called  the  Disconsolate  Matron  ; and  therefore,  most  stupendous  squire,  you  may  tell  her  that 
she  may  make  her  entry  ; and  that  the  valiant  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  is  here  present, 
on  whose  generous  assistance  she  may  safely  rely  for  redress.  Inform  her  also  from  me, 
that  if  she  has  occasion  for  my  aid,  she  may  depend  on  my  readiness  to  do  her  service,  being 
obliged,  as  I am  a knight,  to  be  aiding  and  assisting,  to  the  utmost  of  my  power,  to  all  persons 
of  her  sex  in  distress,  especially  widowed  matrons,  like  her  ladyship.” 

Trifaldin,  hearing  this,  made  his  obeisance  with  the  knee,  and,  beckoning  to  the  fife  and 
drums  to  observe  his  motion,  they  all  marched  out  in  the  same  solemn  procession  as  they 
entered,  and  left  all  the  beholders  in  a deep  admiration  of  his  proportion  and  deportment. 

Then  the  duke,  turning  to  Don  Quixote,  “ Behold,  Sir  Knight,”  said  he,  “ how  the  fight 
and  the  glory  of  virtue  dart  their  beams  through  the  clouds  of  malice  and  ignorance,  and 
shine  to  the  remotest  parts  of  the  earth.  It  is  hardly  six  days  since  you  have  vouchsafed  to 
honour  this  castle  with  your  presence,  and  already  the  afflicted  and  distressed  flock  hither  from 
the  uttermost  regions,  not  in  coaches,  or  on  dromedaries,  but  on  foot,  and  without  eating  by 


6 1 8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANChA. 


the  way ; such  is  their  confidence  in  the  strength  of  that  arm,  the  fame  of  whose  great  exploits 
flies  and  spreads  everywhere,  and  makes  the  whole  world  acquainted  with  your  valour.” 

“ What  would  I give,  my  lord,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  the  same  holy  pedant  were  here 
now,  who,  the  other  day  at  your  table,  would  have  run  down  knight-errantry  at  such  a rate, 
that  the  testimony  of  his  own  eyes  might  convince  him  of  the  absurdity  of  his  error,  and  let 
him  see  that  the  comfortless  and  afflicted  do  not,  in  enormous  misfortunes,  and  uncommon 
adversity,  repair  for  redress  to  the  doors  of  droning  churchmen,  or  your  little  parish  priests  of 
villages  ; nor  to  the  fireside  of  your  country  gentleman,  who  never  travels  beyond  his  land- 
mark ; nor  to  the  lolling  lazy  courtier,  who  rather  hearkens  after  news  which  he  may  relate 
than  endeavours  to  perform  such  deeds  as  may  deserve  to  be  recorded  and  related!  No,  the 
protection  of  damsels,  the  comfort  of  widows,  the  redress  of  the  injured,  and  the  support  of 
the  distressed,  are  nowhere  so  perfectly  to  be  expected  as  from  the  generous  professors  of 
knight-errantry.  Therefore  I thank  Heaven  a thousand  times  for  having  qualified  me  to  answer 
the  necessities  of  the  miserable  by  such  a function.  As  for  the  hardships  and  accidents  that 
may  attend  me,  I look  upon  them  as  no  discouragements,  since  proceeding  from  so  noble  a 
cause.  Then  let  this  matron  be  admitted  to  make  known  her  request,  and  I will  refer  her  for 
redress  to  the  force  of  my  arm,  and  the  intrepid  resolution  of  my  courageous  soul.” 


CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

THE  FAMOUS  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  DISCONSOLATE  MATRON  CONTINUED. 

V 

THE  duke  and  duchess  were  mightily  pleased  to  find  Don  Quixote  wrought  up  to  a 
resolution  so  agreeable  to  their  design.  But  Sancho,  who  made  his  observations,  was 
not  so  well  satisfied.  “ I am  in  a bodily  fear,”  quoth  he,  “ that  this  same  Mistress  Waiting- 
woman  will  be  a balk  to  my  preferment.  I remember  I once  knew  a Toledo  apothecary, 
that  talked  like  a canary  bird,  and  used  to  say,  ‘ Wherever  come  old  waiting-women,  good 

luck  can  happen  there  to  no  man.’  Bless  me  ! he  knew  them  too  well,  and  therefore  valued 

them  accordingly.  He  could  have  eaten  them  all  with  a grain  of  salt.  Since,  then,  the  best 
of  them  are  so  plaguy  troublesome  and  impertinent,  what  will  those  be  that  are  in  doleful 
dumps,  like  this  same  Countess  Threefolds,  three  skirts,  or  three  tails,  what  do  you  call  her?” 

“Hold  your  tongue,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote.  “This  matron,  that  comes  so  far  in 
search  of  me,  lives  too  remote  to  lie  under  the  lash  of  the  apothecary’s  satire.  Besides,  you 
are  to  remember  she  is  a countess  ; and  when  ladies  of  that  quality  become  governantes,  or 
waiting-women,  it  is  only  to  queens  or  empresses  ; and  in  their  own  houses  they  are  as  absolute 
ladies  as  any  others,  and  attended  by  other  waiting-women.” 

“ Ay,  ay,”  cried  Donna  Rodriguez,  who  was  present,  “ there  are  some  that  serve  my  lady 
duchess  here  in  that  capacity,  that  might  have  been  countesses  too,  had  they  had  better  luck. 

But  we  are  not  all  born  to  be  rich,  though  we  are  all  born  to  be  honest.  When  all  is  said, 

whoever  will  offer  to  meddle  with  waiting-women  will  get  little  by  it.  ‘ Many  go  out  for  wool, 
and  come  home  shorn  themselves.’  These  squires,  forsooth,  can  find  no  other  pastime  than  to 
abuse  us,  and  tell  idle  stories  of  us,  unburying  our  bones,  and  burying  our  reputation.  But  their 
tongues  are  no  slander;  and  I can  tell  those  silly  rake-shames,  that,  in  spite  of  their  flouts, 


620 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


we  shall  keep  the  upper  hand  of  them,  and  live  in  the  world  in  the  better  sort  of  houses, 
though  we  starve  for  it.” 

“ I fancy,  said  the  duchess,  “ that  honest  Rodriguez  is  much  in  the  right  : but  we  must 
now  choose  a fitter  time  for  this  dispute,  to  confound  the  ill  opinion  of  that  wicked  apothecary, 
and  to  root  out  that  which  the  great  Sancho  Panza  has  fixed  in  his  breast.” 

“For  my  part,”  quoth  Sancho,  “I  will  not  dispute  with  her;  for  since  the  thoughts  of 
being  a governor  have  steamed  up  into  my  brains,  all  my  concern  for  the  squire  is  vanished 
into  smoke;  and  I care  not  a wild  fig  for  all  the  waiting-women  in  the  world.” 

This  subject  would  have  engaged  them  longer  in  discourse,  had  they  not  been  cut  short  by 
the  sound  of  the  fife  and  drums  that  gave  them  notice  of  the  Disconsolate  Matron’s  approach. 
Thereupon  the  duchess  asked  the  duke  how  it  might  be  proper  to  receive  her,  and  how  far 
ceremony  was  due  to  her  quality  as  a countess. 

“ Look  you,”  quoth  Sancho,  striking  in  before  the  duke  could  answer,  “ I would  advise  you 
to  meet  her  countess-ship  half-way  ; but  for  the  waiting-womanship,  do  not  stir  a step.” 

“Who  bids  you  trouble  yourself?”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“Who  bid  me?”  answered  Sancho;  “why,  I myself  did.  Have  not  I been  squire  to  your 
worship,  and  thus  served  a ’prenticeship  to  good  manners  ? And  have  not  I had  the  Flower 
of  Courtesy  for  my  master,  who  has  often  told  me  a man  may  as  weil  lose  at  one-and-thirty 
with  a card  too  much,  as  a card  too  littie  ? Good  wits  jump  ; ‘ a word  to  the  wise  is  enough.’  ” 

“ Sancho  says  well,”  said  the  duke ; “ to  decide  the  matter,  we  will  first  see  what  kind  of 
a countess  she  is,  and  behave  ourselves  accordingly.” 

Now  the  fife  and  the  drums  entered  as  before.  But  here  the  author  ends  this  short  chapter, 
and  begins  another,  prosecuting  the  same  adventure,  which  is  one  of  the  most  notable  in  the 
history. 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 

THE  ACCOUNT  WHICH  THE  DISCONSOLATE  MATRON  GIVES  OF  HER  MISFORTUNE. 

THE  doleful  drums  and  fife  were  followed  by  twelve  elderly  waiting- women,  that  entered 
the  garden  ranked  in  pairs,  all  clad  in  large  mourning  habits,  that  seemed  to  be  of 
milled  serge,  over  which  they  wore  veils  of  white  calico,  so  long,  that  nothing  could  be  seen 
of  their  black  dress  but  the  very  bottom.  After  them  came  the  Countess  Trifaldi,  handed  by 
her  squire,  Trifaldin  with  the  white  beard.  The  lady  was  dressed  in  a suit  of  the  finest  baize, 
which,  had  it  been  napped,  would  have  had  tufts  as  big  as  Rounceval  pease.  Her  train,  or 
tail,  which  you  will,  was  mathematically  divided  into  three  equal  skirts,  or  angles,  and  borne 
up  by  three  pages  in  mourning ; and  from  this  pleasant  triangular  figure  of  her  train,  as  every 
one  conjectured,  was  she  called  Trifaldi,  as  one  should  say,  the  Countess  of  Three- Folds,  or 
Three-Skirts.  Benengeli  is  of  the  same  opinion,  though  he  affirms  that  her  true  title  was 
the  Countess  of  Lobuna,  or  of  Wolf-Land,  from  the  abundance  of  wolves  bred  in  her  country; 
and,  had  they  been  foxes,  she  had,  by  the  same  rule,  been  called  the  Countess  of  Zorruna,  or 
of  Fox-Land;  it  being  a custom,  in  those  nations,  for  great  persons  to  take  their  denominations 
from  the  commodity  with  which  their  country  most  abounds.  However,  this  countess  chose  to 
borrow  her  title  from  this  new  fashion  of  her  own  invention,  and  leaving  her  name  of  Lobuna, 
took  that  of  Trifaldi. 

Her  twelve  female  attendants  approached  with  her  in  a procession  pace,  with  black  veils 
over  their  faces;  not  transparent,  like  that  of  Trifaldin,  but  thick  enough  to  hinder  altogether 
the  sight  of  their  countenances.  As  soon  as  the  whole  train  of  waiting-women  was  come  in, 
the  duke,  the  duchess,  and  Don  Quixote  stood  up,  and  so  did  all  those  who  were  with  them. 
Then  the  twelve  women,  ranging  themselves  in  two  rows,  made  a lane  for  the  countess  to 
march  up  between  them,  which  she  did,  still  led  by  Trifaldin,  her  squire.  The  duke,  the 
duchess,  and  Don  Quixote  advancing  about  a dozen  paces  to  meet  her,  she  fell  on  her  knees, 
and,  with  a voice  rather  hoarse  and  rough  than  clear  and  delicate,  “ May  it  please  your  high- 
nesses,” said  she,  “ to  spare  yourselves  the  trouble  of  receiving  with  so  much  ceremony  and 
compliment  a man  (a  woman,  I v/ould  say)  who  is  your  devoted  servant.  Alas  ! the  sense  of 


622 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


my  misfortunes  has  so  troubled  my  intellectuals,  that  my  responses  cannot  be  supposed  able 
to  answer  the  critical  opinion  of  your  presence.  My  understanding  has  forsaken  me,  and  is 
gone  a wool-gathering ; and  sure  it  is  far  remote,  for  the  more  I seek  it,  the  more  unlikely 
I am  to  find  it  again.” 

“ The  greatest  claim,  madam,”  answered  the  duke,  “ that  we  can  lay  to  sense  is  a due 
respect  and  decent  deference  to  the  worthiness  of  your  person,  which,  without  any  further 
view,  sufficiently  bespeaks  your  merit  and  excellent  qualifications.” 

Then,  begging  the  honour  of  her  hand,  he  led  her  up  and  placed  her  in  a chair  by  his 
duchess,  who  received  her  with  all  the  ceremony  suitable  to  the  occasion. 

Don  Quixote  said  nothing  all  this  while,  and  Sancho  was  sneaking  about,  and  peeping 
under  the  veils  of  the  lady’s  women,  but  to  no  purpose,  for  they  kept  themselves  very  close 
and  silent,  until  she  at  last  thus  began : “ Confident  I am,  thrice  potent  lord,  thrice  beautiful 
lady,  and  thrice  intelligent  auditors,  that  my  most  unfortunate  miserableness  shall  find,  in  your 
most  generous  and  compassionate  bowels,  a most  misericordial  sanctuary ; my  miserableness, 
which  is  such  as  would  liquefy  marble,  malleate  steel,  and  mollify  adamantine  rocks.  But, 
before  the  rehearsal  of  my  ineffable  misfortunes  enter,  I will  not  say  your  ears,  but  the  public 
mart  of  your  hearing  faculties,  I earnestly  request  that  I may  have  cognisance  whether  the 
cabal,  choir,  or  conclave  of  this  most  illustrissimous  appearance  be  not  adorned  with  the  presence 
of  the  adjutoriferous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Manchissima,  and  his  squirissimous  Panza.” 

“ Panza  is  at  your  elbowissimus,”  quoth  Sancho,  before  anybody  else  could  answer,  “ and 
Don  Quixotissimo  likewise  ; therefore,  most  dolorous  medem,  you  may  tell  out  your  teale,  for 
we  are  all  ready  to  be  your  ladyship’s  servitorissimus,  to  the  best  of  our  capacities,  and  so 
forth.” 

Don  Quixote  then  advanced,  and  addressing  the  countess,  “If  your  misfortunes,  embarrassed 
lady,”  said  he,  “ may  hope  any  redress  from  the  power  and  assistance  of  knight-errantry,  I offer 
you  my  force  and  courage ; and,  such  as  they  are,  I dedicate  them  to  your  service.  I am 
Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  whose  profession  is  a sufficient  obligation  to  succour  the  distressed, 
without  the  formality  of  preambles,  or  the  elegance  of  oratory,  to  circumvent  my  favour.  There- 
fore, pray,  madam,  let  us  know  by  a succinct,  and  plain  account  of  your  calamities,  what  remedies 
should  be  applied  ; and,  if  your  griefs  are  such  as  do  not  admit  of  a cure,  assure  yourself  at 
least  that  we  will  comfort  you  in  your  afflictions,  by  sympathising  in  your  sorrow.” 

The  lady,  hearing  this,  threw  herself  at  Don  Quixote’s  feet,  in  spite  of  his  kind  endeavours 
to  the  contrary  ; and,  striving  to  embrace  them,  “ Most  invincible  knight,”  said  she,  “ I prostrate 
myself  at  these  feet,  the  foundations  and  pillars  of  chivalry-errant,  the  supporters  of  my  drooping 
spirits,  whose  indefatigable  steps  alone  can  hasten  my  relief,  and  the  cure  of  my  afflictions.  Oh, 
valorous  knight-errant,  whose  real  achievements  eclipse  and  obscure  the  fabulous  legend  of  the 
Amadises,  Esplandians,  and  Belianises  !”  Then,  turning  from  Don  Quixote,  she  laid  hold  on 
Sancho,  and  squeezing  his  hands  very  hard,  “ And  thou,  the  most  loyal  squire  that  ever  attended 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


on  the  magnanimity  of  knight-errantry,  whose  goodness  is  more  extensive  than  the  beard  of  my 
usher  Trifaldin!  how  happily  have  thy  stars  placed  thee  under  the  discipline  of  the  whole 

1 

martial  college  of  chivalry  professors,  centred  and  epitomised  in  the  single  Don  Quixote ! I 
conjure  thee,  by  thy  love  of  goodness,  and  thy  unspotted  loyalty  to  so  great  a master,  to  employ 
thy  moving  and  interceding  eloquence  in  my  behalf,  that  eftsoons  his  favour  may  shine  upon 
this  humble  and  most  disconsolate  countess.” 

“ Look  you,  Madam  Countess,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ as  for  measuring  my  goodness  by  your 
squire’s  beard,  that  is  neither  here  nor  there ; so  that  my  soul  go  to  heaven  when  I depart 
this  life,  I do  not  matter  the  rest ; for,  as  for  the  beards  of  this  world,  it  is  not  what  I stand 
upon,  so  that,  without  all  this  pawing  and  wheedling,  I will  put  in  a word  or  two  for  you  to 
my  master.  I know  he  loves  me  ; and,  besides,  at  this  time,  he  stands  in  need  of  me  about 
a certain  business,  and  he  shall  do  what  he  can  for  you.  But,  pray,  discharge  your  burthened 
mind ; unload,  and  let  us  see  what  griefs  you  bring,  and  then  leave  us  to  take  care  of  the 
rest.” 

The  duke  and  duchess  were  ready  to  burst  with  laughing,  to  find  the  adventure  run  in 
this  pleasant  strain  ; and  they  admired,  at  the  same  time,  the  rare  cunning  and  management 
of  Trifaldi,  who,  resuming  her  seat,  thus  began  her  story:  “The  famous  kingdom  of  Candaya, 
situate  between  the  Great  Taprobana  and  the  South  Sea,  about  two  leagues  beyond  Cape 
Comorin,  had  for  its  queen  the  Lady  Donna  Maguntia.  whose  husband,  King  Archipielo 
dying,  left  the  Princess  Antonomasia,  their  only  child,  heiress  to  the  crown.  This  princess 
was  educated  and  brought  up  under  my  care  and  direction,  I being  the  eldest  and  first  lady 
of  the  bed-chamber  to  the  queen,  her  mother.  In  process  of  time,  the  young  princess  arrived 
at  the  age  of  fourteen  years,  and  appeared  so  perfectly  beautiful,  that  it  was  not  in  the  power 
of  Nature  to  give  any  addition  to  her  charms  ; what  is  yet  more,  her  mind  was  no  less  adorned 
than  her  body.  Wisdom  itself  was  but  a fool  to  her.  She  was  no  less  discreet  than  fair,  and 
the  fairest  creature  in  the  world ; and  so  she  is  still,  unless  the  fatal  knife,  or  unrelenting 
snears,  of  the  envious  and  inflexible  sisters  have  cut  her  thread  of  life.  But  sure  the  heavens, 
would  not  permit  such  an  injury  to  be  done  to  the  earth,  as  the  lopping  off  the  loveliest 
branch  that  ever  adorned  the  garden  of  the  world. 

“ Her  beauty,  which  my  unpolished  tongue  can  never  sufficiently  praise,  attracting  all 
eyes,  soon  got  her  a world  of  adorers,  many  of  them  princes,  who  were  her  neighbours,  and 
more  distant  foreigners ; among  the  rest,  a private  knight,  who  resided  at  court,  and  was  so 
audacious  as  to  raise  his  thoughts  to  that  heaven  of  beauty.  This  young  gentleman  was 
indeed  master  of  all  gallantries  that  the  air  of  his  courtly  education  could  inspire  ; and  so, 
confiding  in  his  youth,  his  handsome  mien,  his  agreeable  air  and  dress,  his  graceful  carriage, 
and  the  charms  of  his  easy  wit,  and  other  qualifications,  he  followed  the  impulse  of  his  inordinate 
and  most  presumptuous  passion.  I must  needs  say  that  he  was  an  extraordinary  person  ; he 
played  to  a miracle  on  the  guitar,  and  made  it  speak  not  only  to  the  ears,  but  to  the  very 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


624 

soul.  He  danced  to  admiration,  and  had  such  a rare  knack  at  making  bird-cages,  that  he 
might  have  got  an  estate  by  that  very  art ; and,  to  sum  up  all  his  accomplishments,  he  was 
a poet.  So  many  endowments  were  sufficient  to  have  moved  a mountain,  and  much  more  the 
heart  of  a young,  tender  virgin.  But  all  his  fine  arts  and  soothing  behaviour  had  proved 
ineffectual  against  my  beautiful  charge,  if  the  cunning  rogue  had  not  first  conquered  me. 
The  wily  villain  endeavoured  to  bribe  the  keeper,  so  to  secure  the  keys  of  the  fortress.  In 
short,  he  so  plied  me  with  pleasing  trifles,  and  so  insinuated  himself  into  my  soul,  that,  at  last, 
he  perfectly  bewitched  me,  and  made  me  give  way,  before  I was  aware,  to  what  I should 
never  have  permitted.  But  that  which  first  wrought  me  to  his  purpose  was  a copy  of  verses 
he  sung  one  night  under  my  window,  which,  if  I remember  right,  began  thus 

A SONG. 

A secret  fire  consumes  my  heart ; 

And,  to  augment  my  raging  pain, 

The  charming  foe  that  rais’d  the  smart, 

Denies  me  freedom  to  complain. 

But  sure  ’tis  just  we  should  conceal 
The  bliss  and  woe  in  love  we  feel: 

For,  oh  ! what  human  tongue  can  tell 
The  joys  of  heaven,  or  pains  of  hell? 

« The  Words  were  to  me  so  many  pearls  of  eloquence,  and  his  voice  sweeter  to  my  ears 
than  sugar  to  the  taste.  The  reflection  on  the  misfortune  which  these  verses  brought  on  me 
has  often  made  me  applaud  Plato’s  design  of  banishing  all  poets  from  a good  commonwealth. 
For,  instead  of  composing  lamentable  verses,  like  those  of  the  Marquis  of  Mantua,  that  make 
the  women  and  children  cry  by  the  fireside,  they  try  their  utmost  skill  on  such  soft  strokes 
as  enter  the  soul,  and  wound  it,  like  that  thunder  which  hurts  and  consumes  all  within,  yet 
leaves  the  garment  sound.  Another  time  he  entertained  me  with  the  following  song 

A SONG. 

Death,  put  on  some  kind  disguise, 

And  at  once  my  heart  surprise 
For  ’tis  such  a curse  to  live, 

And  so  great  a bliss  to  die, 

Shouldst  thou  any  warning  give, 

I’d  relapse  to  life  for  joy 

“Many  other  verses  of  this  kind  he  plied  me  with,  which  charmed  when  read,  but 
transported  when  sung.  For  you  must  know  that,  when  our  eminent  poets  debase  them- 
selves to  the  writing  a sort  of  composure  called  love-madrigals  and  roundelays,  now  much  in 
vogue  in  Candaya,  those  verses  are  no  sooner  heard  than  they  presently  produce  a dancing 
of  souls,  tickling  of  fancies,  emotion  of  spirits;  and,  in  short,  a pleasing  distemper  m the 

whole  body,  as  if  quicksilver  shook  it  in  every  part. 

“ So  that,  once  more,  I pronounce  those  poets  very  dangerous,  and  fit  to  be  banished  to 
the  Isles  of  Lizards ; though,  truly,  I must  confess,  the  fault  is  rather  chargeable  on  those 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


625 


foolish  people  that  commend,  and  the  silly  wenches  that  believe  them.  For,  had  I been  as 
cautious  as  my  place  required,  his  amorous  serenades  could  never  have  moved  me  ; nor  would 
I have  believed  his  poetical  cant,  such  as,  ‘ I dying  live,’  ‘ I burn  in  ice,’  ‘ I shiver  in  flames,’  ‘ I 
hope  in  despair,’  ‘I  go,  yet  stay;’  with  a thousand  such  contradictions,  which  make  up  the 
greatest  part  of  those  kind  of  compositions.  As  ridiculous  are  their  promises  of  the  Phoenix 
of  Arabia,  Ariadne’s  crown,  the  coursers  of  the  sun,  the  pearls  of  the  southern  ocean,  the  gold 
of  Tagus,  the  balsam  of  Panchaya,  and  Heaven  knows  what! 

“ But  whither,  woe ’s  me  ! whither  do  I wander,  miserable  woman  ? What  madness  prompts 

me  to  accuse  the  faults  of  others,  having  so  long  a score  of  my  own  to  answer  for  ? Alas ! 

not  his  verses,  but  my  own  inclination  ; not  his  music,  but  my  own  levity ; not  his  wit,  but 
my  own  folly,  opened  a passage,  and  levelled  the  way  for  Don  Clavijo  (for  that  was  the  name 
of  the  knight).  In  short,  I procured  him  admittance  ; and,  by  my  connivance,  he  very  often 
met  Antonomasia,  who,  poor  lady  ! was  rather  deluded  by  me  than  by  him.  But,  wicked  as  I 
was,  it  was  upon  the  honourable  score  of  marriage  ; for,  had  he  not  been  engaged  to  be  her 
husband,  he  should  not  have  touched  the  very  shadow  of  her  shoe-string.  The  intrigue  was 
kept  very  close  for  some  time,  by  my  cautious  management ; but,  at  last,  consulting  upon  the 
matter,  we  found  there  was  but  one  way ; Don  Clavijo  should  demand  the  young  lady  in 
marriage  before  the  curate,  by  virtue  of  a promise  under  her  hand,  which  I dictated  for  the 
purpose,  and  so  binding,  that  all  the  strength  of  Samson  himself  could  not  have  broken  the  tie. 
The  business  was  put  in  execution,  the  note  was  produced  before  the  priest,  who,  examining 
the  lady,  and  finding  her  confession  to  agree  with  the  tenor  of  the  contract,  put  her  in  custody 
of  a very  honest  sergeant.” 

“ Bless  us  !”  quoth  Sancho,  “ sergeants  too,  and  poets,  and  songs,  and  verses,  in  your  country! 

o’  my  conscience,  I think  the  world  is  the  same  all  the  world  over.  But  go  on,  Madam  Trifaldi, 

I beseech  you,  for  it  is  late,  and  I am  upon  thorns  till  I know  the  end  of  this  story.” 

“ I will,”  answered  the  countess. 


79 


CHAPTER  XXXIX. 

WHERE  TRIFALDI  CONTINUES  HER  STUPENDOUS  AND  MEMORABLE  STORY. 

IF  every  word  that  Sancho  spoke  gave  the  duchess  new  pleasure,  everything  he  said  put 
Don  Quixote  to  as  much  pain ; so  that  he  commanded  him  silence,  and  gave  the  matron 
opportunity  to  go  on.  “ In  short,”  said  she,  “ the  business  was  debated  a good  while  ; andr 
after  many  questions  and  answers,  the  princess  firmly  persisting  in  her  first  declaration,  judgment 
was  given  in  favour  of  Don  Clavijo,  which  Queen  Maguntia,  her  mother,  took  so  to  heart  that 
we  buried  her  about  three  days  after.” 

“ Then,  without  doubt,  she  died,”  quoth  Sancho. 

“That  is  a clear  case,”  replied  Trifaldin;  “for,  in  Candaya,  they  do  not  use  to  bury  the 
living,  but  the  dead.” 

“ But,  with  your  good  leave,  Mr.  Squire,”  answered  Sancho,  “ people  that  were  in  a 
swoon  have  been  buried  alive  before  now ; and  methinks  Queen  Maguntia  should  only  have 
swooned  away,  and  not  have  been  in  such  haste  to  have  died  in  good  earnest ; for,  * while 
there  is  life  there  is  hope/  and  there  is  a remedy  for  all  things  but  death.  I do  not  find  the 
young  lady  was  so  much  out  of  the  way  neither,  that  the  mother  should  lay  it  so  grievously 
to  heart.  Indeed,  had  she  married  a footman,  or  some  other  servant  in  the  family,  as  I am 
told  many  others  have  done,  it  had  been  a very  bad  business,  and  past  curing;  but,  for  the 
queen  to  make  such  a heavy  outcry,  when  her  daughter  married  such  a fine-bred  young  knight, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


627 


faith  and  troth,  I think  the  business  had  better  have  been  made  up.  It  was  a slip,  but  not  such 
a heinous  one  as  some  would  think  ; for,  as  my  master  here  says,  and  he  will  not  let  me  tell 
a lie,  as  of  scholars  they  make  bishops,  so  of  your  knights  (chiefly  if  they  be  errant)  one  may 
easily  make  kings  and  emperors.” 

“ That  is  most  certain,”  said  Don  Quixote.  “ Turn  a knight-errant  loose  into  the  wide 
world,  with  two-penny  worth  of  good  fortune,  and  he  is  in  potentia  propinqua  ( proximo, , I would 
say)  the  greatest  emperor  in  the  world.  But  let  the  lady  proceed,  for  hitherto  her  story  has 
been  very  pleasant,  and  I doubt  the  most  bitter  part  of  it  is  still  untold.” 

“ The  most  bitter,  truly,  sir,”  answered  she ; “and  so  bitter,  that  wormwood  and  every 
bitter  herb,  compared  to  it,  are  as  sweet  as  honey. 

“The  queen  being  really  dead,”  continued  she,  “and  not  in  a trance,  we  buried  her; 
and,  scarce  had  we  done  her  the  last  offices,  and  taken  our  last  leave,  when  (qnis  talia  fando 
temperet  a lachrymis  ? who  can  relate  such  woes,  and  not  be  drowned  in  tears  ?)  the  giant 
Malambruno,  cousin-german  to  the  deceased  queen,  who,  besides  his  native  cruelty,  was  also 
a magician,  appeared  upon  her  grave,  mounted  on  a wooden  horse,  and,  by  his  dreadful,  angry 
looks,  showed  he  came  thither  to  revenge  the  death  of  his  relation,  by  punishing  Don  Clavijo 
for  his  presumption,  and  Antonomasia  for  her  oversight.  Accordingly,  he  immediately  enchanted 
them  both  upon  the  very  tomb  ; transforming  her  into  a brazen  female  monkey,  and  the  young 
knight  into  a hideous  crocodile,  of  an  unknown  metal ; and,  between  them  both,  he  set  an 
inscription,  in  the  Syriac  tongue,  which  we  have  got  since  translated  into  the  Candayan,  and 
then  into  Spanish,  to  this  effect  : 

“ ‘ These  two  presumptuous  lovers  shall  never  recover  their  natural  shapes,  till  the  valorous 
Knight  of  La  Mancha  enter  into  a single  combat  with  me ; for,  by  the  irrevocable  decrees  of 
fate,  this  unheard-of  adventure  is  reserved  for  his  unheard-of  courage.’ 

“ This  done,  he  drew  a broad  scimitar,  of  a monstrous  size,  and,  catching  me  fast  by  the 
hair,  made  an  offer  to  cut  my  throat,  or  to  whip  off  my  head.  I was  frighted  almost  to  death, 
my  hair  stood  on  end,  and  my  tongue  clave  to  the  roof  of  my  mouth.  However,  recovering 
myself  as  well  as  I could,  trembling  and  weeping,  I begged  mercy  in  such  a moving  accent, 
and  in  such  tender,  melting  words,  that,  at  last,  my  entreaties  prevailed  on  him  to  stop  the 
cruel  execution.  In  short,  he  ordered  all  the  waiting-women  at  court  to  be  brought  before  him, 
the  same  that  you  see  here  at  present  ; and,  after  he  had  aggravated  our  breach  of  trust,  and 
railed  against  the  deceitful  practices,  and  what  else  he  could  urge  in  scandal  of  our  profession, 
reviling  us  for  the  fact  of  which  I alone  stood  guilty — ‘ I will  not  punish  you  with  instant  death." 
said  he,  ‘ but  inflict  a punishment  which  shall  be  a lasting  and  eternal  mortification.’ 

“ Now,  in  the  very  instant  of  his  denouncing  our  sentence,  we  felt  the  pores  of  our 
faces  to  open,  and  all  about  them  perceived  an  itching  pain,  like  the  pricking  of  pins  and 
needles.  Thereupon  clapping  our  hands  to  our  faces,  we  found  them  as  you  shall  see  them 
immediately.” 


628 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Saying  this,  the  Disconsolate  Matron,  and  her  attendants,  throwing  off  their  veils,  exposed 
their  faces,  all  rough  with  bristly  beards,  some  red,  some  black,  some  white,  and  others  motley. 
The  duke  and  duchess  wondered,  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  were  astonished,  and  the  standers 
by  were  thunder-struck. 

“ Thus,”  said  the  countess,  proceeding,  “ has  that  wicked  and  evil-minded  Malambruno 
served  us,  and  planted  these  rough  and  horrid  bristles  on  cur  faces,  otherwise  most  delicately 
smooth.  Oh ! that  he  had  chopped  off  our  heads  with  his  monstrous  scimitar,  rather  than  to 
have  disgraced  our  faces  with  these  brushes  upon  them  ! For,  gentlemen,  if  you  rightly  and  truly 
consider  it,  what  I have  to  say  should  be  attended  with  a flood  of  tears ; but  such  rivers 
and  oceans  have  fallen  from  me  already  upon  this  doleful  subject,  that  my  eyes  are  as  dry  as 
chaff ; and,  therefore,  pray  let  me  speak  without  tears  at  this  time.  Where,  alas ! shall  a waiting- 
woman  dare  to  show  her  head  with  such  a furze-bush  upon  her  chin  ? What  charitable 
person  will  entertain  her  ? What  relations  will  own  her  ? At  the  best,  we  can  scarcely  make 
our  faces  passable,  though  we  torture  them  with  a thousand  slops  and  washes  ; and,  even  thus, 
we  have  much  ado  to  get  the  men  to  care  for  us.  What  will  become  of  her,  then,  that  wears 
a thicket  upon  her  face  ? Oh,  ladies  and  companions  of  my  misery  ! in  an  ill  hour  were  we 
begotten,  and  in  a worse  came  we  into  the  world  !” 

With  these  words  the  Disconsolate  Matron  seemed  to  faint  away. 


CHAPTER  XL. 


OF  SOME  THINGS  THAT  RELATE  TO  THIS  ADVENTURE,  AND  APPERTAIN  TO  THIS  MEMORABLE  STORY. 


AL 


LL  persons  that  love  to  read  histories  of  the  nature  of  this,  must  certainly  be  very  much 
obliged  to  Cid  Hamet,  the  original  author,  who  has  taken  such  care  in  delivering 
every  minute  particular  distinctly  entire,  without  concealing  the  least  circumstance  that  might 
heighten  the  humour,  or,  if  omitted,  have  obscured  the  light  and  the  truth  of  the  story.  He 
draws  lively  pictures  of  the  thoughts,  discovers  the  imaginations,  satisfies  curiosity  in  secrets, 
clears  doubts,  resolves  arguments  ; and,  in  short,  makes  manifest  the  least  atoms  of  the  most 
inquisitive  desire.  Oh,  most  famous  author!  oh,  fortunate  Don  Quixote!  oh,  renowned  Dulcinea! 
oh,  facetious  Sancho  ! jointly  and  severally  may  you  live,  and  continue  to  the  latest  posterity, 
for  the  general  delight  and  recreation  of  mankind.  But  the  story  goes  on. 

“Now,  on  my  honest  word,”  quoth  Sancho,  when  he  saw  the  matron  in  a swoon,  “and  by 
the  blood  of  all  the  Panzas,  my  forefathers,  I never  heard  nor  saw  the  like,  neither  did  my 
master  ever  tell  me,  or  so  much  as  conceive  in  that  working  headpiece  of  his,  such  an  adventure 
as  this.  Now,  all  the  spirits  (and  I would  not  curse  anybody)  run  away  with  thee,  thou  giant 
Malambruno  ! Couldst  thou  find  no  other  punishment  for  these  poor  sinners,  but  by  clapping 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


630 

scrubbing-brushes  about  their  muzzles  ? Had  it  not  been  much  better  to  slit  their  nostrils 
half  way  up  their  noses,  though  they  had  snuffled  for  it  a little,  than  to  have  planted  these 
quick-set  hedges  over  their  chaps  ? I will  lay  any  man  a wager  now,  the  poor  creatures  have 
not  money  enough  to  pay  for  their  shaving.” 

“It  is  but  too  true,  sir,”  said  one  of  them,  “we  have  not  wherewithal  to  pay  for  taking 
our  beards  off;  so  that  some  of  us,  to  save  charges,  are  forced  to  lay  on  plaisters  of  pitch 
that  pull  away  roots  and  all,  and  leave  our  chins  as  smooth  as  the  bottom  of  a stone-mortar. 
There  is  indeed  a sort  of  women  in  Candaya,  that  go  about  from  house  to  house  to  take  off 
the  down  or  hairs  that  grow  about  the  face,  trim  the  eye-brows,  and  do  twenty  other  little 
private  jobs  for  the  women ; but  we  here,  who  are  my  lady’s  duennas,  would  never  have 
anything  to  do  with  them,  for  they  have  got  ill  names  ; so,  if  my  Lord  Don  Quixote  do  not 
relieve  us,  our  beards  will  stick  by  us  as  long  as  we  live.” 

“ I will  have  mine  plucked  off  hair  by  hair  among  the  Moors,”  answered  Don  Quixote, 
“ rather  than  not  free  you  from  yours.” 

“Ah,  valorous  knight!”  cried  the  Countess  Trifaldi,  recovering  that  moment  from  her 
fit,  “ the  sweet  sound  of  your  promise  reached  my  hearing  in  the  very  midst  of  my  trance, 
and  has  perfectly  restored  my  senses.  I beseech  you  therefore  once  again,  most  illustrious 
sir,  and  invincible  knight-errant,  that  your  gracious  promise  may  soon  have  the  wished-for 
effect.” 

“ I will  be  guilty  of  no  neglect,  madam,”  answered  Don  Quixote.  “ Point  out  the  way, 
and  you  shall  soon  be  convinced  of  my  readiness  to  serve  you.” 

“You  must  know  then,  sir,”  said  the  Disconsolate  Lady,  “from  this  place  to  the  kingdom 
of  Candaya,  by  computation,  we  reckon  about  five  thousand  leagues,  two  or  three  more  or 
less  : but  if  you  ride  through  the  air  in  a direct  line,  it  is  not  above  three  thousand  two 
hundred  and  twenty-seven.  You  are  likewise  to  understand,  that  Malambruno  told  me  that 
when  fortune  should  make  me  find  out  the  knight  who  is  to  dissolve  our  enchantment,  he 
would  send  him  a famous  steed,  much  easier,  and  less  resty  and  full  of  tricks,  than  those  jades 
that  are  commonly  let  out  to  hire,  as  being  the  same  wooden  horse  that  carried  the  valorous 
Peter  of  Provence  and  the  fair  Magalona,  when  he  stole  her  away.  It  is  managed  by  a wooden 
peg  in  its  forehead,  instead  of  a bridle,  and  flies  so  swiftly  through  the  air  as  if  all  the  spirits 
of  evil  were  switching  him,  or  blowing  fire  in  his  tail.  This  courser  tradition  delivers  to  have 
been  the  handiwork  of  the  sage  Merlin,  who  never  lent  him  to  any  but  particular  friends,  or 
when  he  was  paid  sauce  for  him.  Among  others,  his  friend  Peter  of  Provence  borrowed  him, 
and  by  the  help  of  his  wonderful  speed  stole  away  the  fair  Magalona,  as  I said,  setting  her 
behind  on  the  crupper  (for  you  must  know  he  carries  double),  and  so  towering  up  in  the 
air,  he  left  the  people  that  stood  near  the  place  whence  he  started  gaping,  staring,  and  amazed. 

“ Since  that  journey  we  have  heard  of  nobody  that  has  backed  him  ; but  this  we  know, 
that  Malambruno,  since  that,  got  him  by  his  art,  and  has  used,  ever  since,  to  post  about  to 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


631 


all  parts  of  the  world.  He  is  here  to-day,  and  to-morrow  in  France,  and  the  next  day  in 
America.  And  one  of  the  best  properties  of  the  horse  is,  that  he  costs  not  a farthing  in 
keeping,  for  he  neither  eats  nor  sleeps,  neither  needs  he  any  shoeing  ; besides,  without  having 
wings,  he  ambles  so  very  easy  through  the  air,  that  you  may  carry  in  your  hand  a cup  full  of 
water  a thousand  leagues,  and  not  spill  a drop ; so  that  the  fair  Magalona  loved  mightily  to 
ride  him.” 

“Nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “as  for  an  easy  pacer,  commend  me  to  Dapple.  Indeed,  he  is 
none  of  your  highflyers,  he  cannot  gallop  in  the  air ; but,  on  the  king’s  highway,  he  shall  pace 
you  with  the  best  ambler  that  ever  went  on  four  legs.” 

This  set  the  whole  company  a-laughing ; but  then  the  Disconsolate  Lady  going  on, 
“ This  horse,”  said  she,  “ will  certainly  be  here  within  half  an  hour  after  it  is  dark,  if  Malam- 
bruno  designs  to  put  an  end  to  our  misfortunes,  for  that  was  the  sign  by  which  I should 
discover  my  deliverer.” 

“And  pray,  forsooth,”  quoth  Sancho,  “how  many  will  this  same  horse  carry  upon  occasion?” 

“Two,”  answered  she;  “one  on  the  saddle,  and  the  other  behind  on  the  crupper, 
and  those  two  are  commonly  the  knight  and  the  squire,  if  some  stolen  damsel  be  not  to  be 

yy 

one. 

“ Good  disconsolate  madam,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I would  fain  know  the  name  of  this  nag.” 

“ The  horse’s  name,”  answered  she,  “ is  neither  Pegasus,  like  Bellerophon’s  ; nor  Bucephalus, 
like  Alexander’s  ; nor  Brilladoro,  like  Orlando’s ; nor  Bayard,  like  Rinaldo’s  ; nor  Frontin, 
like  Rogero’s  ; nor  Bootes,  nor  Pyrithous,  like  the  horses  of  the  Sun ; neither  is  he  called 
Orelia,  like  the  horse  which  Roderigo,  the  last  King  of  Spain  of  the  Gothic  race,  bestrode  that 
unfortunate  day  when  he  lost  the  battle,  the  kingdom,  and  his  life.” 

“ I will  lay  you  a wager,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ since  the  horse  goes  by  none  of  those  famous 
names,  he  does  not  go  by  that  of  Rozinante  neither,  which  is  my  master’s  horse,  and  another 
guess-beast  than  you  have  reckoned  up.” 

“It  is  very  right,”  answered  the  bearded  lady;  “however,  he  has  a very  proper  and 
significant  name,  for  he  is  called  Clavileno,  or  Wooden  Peg  the  Swift,  from  the  wooden  peg 
in  his  forehead ; so  that,  from  the  significancy  of  name  at  least,  he  may  be  compared  with 
Rozinante.” 

“I  find  no  fault  with  his  name,”  quoth  Sancho;  “but  what  kind  of  bridle  or  halter  do 
you  manage  him  with  ?” 

“ I told  you  already,”  replied  she,  “ that  he  is  guided  by  the  peg,  which,  being  turned 
this  way  or  that  way,  he  moves  accordingly,  either  mounting  aloft  in  the  air,  or  almost  brushing 
and  sweeping  the  ground,  or  else  flying  in  the  middle  region,  the  way  which  ought  indeed 
most  to  be  chosen  in  all  affairs  of  life.” 

“ I should  be  glad  to  see  this  notable  tit,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  do  not  desire  to  get  on 
his  back,  either  before  or  behind.  No,  by  my  holy  dame,  you  may  as  well  expect  pears  from 


632 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


an  elm.  It  were  a pretty  jest,  I trow,  for  me  that  can  hardly  sit  my  own  Dapple,  with  a pack- 
saddle  as  soft  as  silk,  to  suffer  myself  to  be  horsed  upon  a hard  wooden  thing,  without  either 
cushion  or  pillow  under  my  seat.  Before  George ! I will  not  gall  myself  to  take  off  the 
best  lady’s  beard  in  the  land.  Let  them  that  have  beards  wear  them  still,  or  get  them  whipped 
off  as  they  think  best;  I will  not  take  such  a long  jaunt  with  my  master,  not  I.  There  is 
no  need  of  me  in  this  shaving  of  beards,  as  there  was  in  Dulcinea’s  business.” 

“Upon  my  word,  dear  sir,  but  there  is,”  replied  Trifaldi;  “and  so  much,  that  without 
you  nothing  can  be  done.” 

“ God  save  the  king ! ” cried  Sancho ; “ what  have  we  squires  to  do  with  our  masters’ 
adventures  ? We  must  bear  the  trouble,  forsooth,  and  they  run  away  with  the  credit ! Bless 
me  ! it  were  something  would  those  that  write  their  stories  but  give  the  squires  their  due 
shares  in  their  books;  as  thus,  ‘Such  a knight  ended  such  an  adventure;  but  it  was  with 
the  help  of  such  a one,  his  squire,  without  which  he  certainly  could  never  have  done  it.’ 
But  they  shall  barely  tell  you  in  their  histories,  ‘ Sir  Paralipomenon,  Knight  of  the  Three 
Stars,  ended  the  adventure  of  the  six  hobgoblins,’  and  not  a word  all  the  while  of  his 
squire’s  person,  as  if  there  were  no  such  man,  though  he  was  by  all  the  while.  In  short, 
good  people,  I do  not  like  it ; and,  once  more,  I say,  my  master  may  even  go  by  himself  for 
Sancho,  and  joy  betide  him.  I will  stay  and  keep  Madam  Duchess  company  here ; and 
mayhap,  by  that  time  he  comes  back,  he  will  find  his  Lady  Dulcinea’s  business  pretty  forward, 
for  I mean  to  give  myself  a whipping,  till  I brush  off  the  very  hair,  at  idle  times,  that  is, 
when  I have  nothing  else  to  do.” 

“ Nevertheless,  honest  Sancho,”  said  the  duchess,  “ if  your  company  be  necessary  in  this 
adventure,  you  must  go,  for  all  good  people  will  make  it  their  business  to  entreat  you  ; and 
it  would  look  very  ill,  that,  through  your  vain  fears,  these  poor  gentlewomen  should  remain 
thus  with  rough  and  bristly  faces.” 

“ God  save  the  king,  I cry  again,”  said  Sancho  ; “ were  it  a piece  of  charity  for  the  relief 
of  some  good,  sober  gentlewoman,  or  poor,  innocent  hospital-girls,  something  might  be  said ; 
but  to  gall  my  sides,  and  venture  my  neck,  to  unbeard  a pack  of  idling,  trolloping  chamber- 
jades,  with  a murrain  ! Not  I,  let  them  go  elsewhere  for  a shaver.  I wish  I might  see  the 
whole  tribe  of  them  wear  beards,  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest,  from  the  proudest  to  the 
primest,  all  hairy  like  so  many  she-goats.” 

“ You  are  very  angry  with  the  waiting-women,  Sancho,”  said  the  duchess  ; “ that  apothecary 
has  inspired  you  with  this  bitter  spirit.  But  you  are  to  blame,  friend,  for  I will  assure  you 
there  are  some  in  my  family  that  may  serve  for  patterns  of  discretion  to  all  those  of  their 
function  ; and  Donna  Rodriguez  here  wiil  let  me  say  no  less.” 

“ Ay,  ay,  madam,”  said  Donna  Rodriguez,  “ your  grace  may  say  what  you  please.  This 
is  a censorious  world  we  live  in,  but  Heaven  knows  all  ; and  whether  good  or  bad,  bearded 
or  unbearded,  we  waiting-gentlewomen  had  mothers  as  well  as  the  rest  of  our  sex ; and  since 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


633 


| Providence  has  made  us  as  we  are,  and  placed  us  in  the  world,  it  knows  wherefore ; and  so 
we  trust  in  its  mercy,  and  nobody’s  beard.” 

“ Enough,  Donna  Rodriguez,”  said  Don  Quixote.  “ As  for  you,  Lady  Trifaldi,  and  other 
distressed  matrons,  I hope  that  Heaven  will  speedily  look  with  a pitying  eye  on  your  sorrows, 
and  that  Sancho  will  do  as  I shall  desire.  I only  wish  Clavileno  would  once  come,  that  I 
may  encounter  Malambruno ; for  I am  sure  no  razor  should  be  more  expeditious  in  shaving 
your  ladyship’s  beard,  than  my  sword  to  shave  that  giant’s  head  from  his  shoulders.  Heaven 
may  a while  permit  the  wicked,  but  not  for  ever.” 

“ Ah ! most  valorous  champion,”  said  the  Disconsolate  Matron,  “ may  all  the  stars  in  the 
celestial  regions  shed  their  most  propitious  influence  on  your  generous  valour,  which  thus 
supports  the  cause  of  our  unfortunate  office,  so  exposed  to  the  poisonous  rancour  of  apothecaries, 
and  so  reviled  by  saucy  grooms  and  squires.  Now,  an  ill-luck  attend  the  low-spirited  being 
who,  in  the  flower  of  her  youth,  will  not  rather  choose  to  turn  nun  than  waiting-woman ! Poor, 
forlorn,  contemned  creatures  as  we  are,  though  descended,  in  a direct  line  from  father  to  son, 
from  Hector  of  Troy  himself;  yet  would  not  our  ladies  find  a more  civil  way  to  speak  to  us 
than  thee  and  thou,  though  it  were  to  gain  them  a kingdom.  Oh,  giant  Malambruno ! thou 
who,  though  an  enchanter,  art  always  most  faithful  to  thy  word,  send  us  the  peerless  Clavileno, 
that  our  misfortunes  may  have  an  end  ; for  if  the  weather  grows  hotter  than  it  is,  and  these 
shaggy  beards  still  sprout  about  our  faces,  what  a sad  pickle  will  they  be  in  !” 

The  Disconsolate  Lady  uttered  these  lamentations  in  so  pathetic  a manner,  that  the  tears 
of  all  the  spectators  waited  on  her  complaints ; and  even  Sancho  himself  began  to  water  his 
plants,  and  condescended  at  last  to  share  in  the  adventure,  and  attend  his  master  to  the  very 
fag-end  of  the  world,  so  he  might  contribute  to  the  clearing  away  the  weeds  that  overspread 
those  venerable  faces. 


80 


CHAPTER  XLI. 

OF  CLAVILENO’S  (ALIAS  WOODEN  PEG’S)  ARRIVAL,  WITH  THE  CONCLUSION  OF  THIS  TEDIOUS  ADVENTURE. 

THESE  discourses  brought  on  the  night,  and  with  it  the  appointed  time  for  the  famous 
Clavileno’s  arrival.  Don  Quixote,  very  impatient  at  his  delay,  began  to  fear  that 
either  he  was  not  the  knight  for  whom  this  adventure  was  reserved  or  else  that  the  giant 
Malambruno  had  not  courage  to  enter  into  a single  combat  with  him.  But,  unexpectedly,  who 
should  enter  the  garden  but  four  savages,  covered  with  green  ivy,  bearing  on  their  shoulders  a 
large  wooden  horse,  which  they  sat  on  his  legs  before  the  company ; and  then  one  of  them 
cried  out,  “ Now  let  him  that  has  courage  mount  this  engine.” 

“ I am  not  he,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ for  I have  no  courage,  nor  am  I a knight.” 

“ And  let  him  take  his  squire  behind  him,  if  he  has  one,”  continued  the  savage  ; “ with 
this  assurance  from  the  valorous  Malambruno,  that  no  foul  play  shall  be  offered,  nor  will  he 
use  anything  but  his  sword  to  offend  him.  It  is  but  only  turning  the  peg  before  him,  and  the 
horse  will  transport  him  through  the  air  to  the  place  where  Malambruno  attends  their  coming. 
But  let  them  blindfold  their  eyes,  lest  the  dazzling  and  stupendous  height  of  their  career  should 
make  them  giddy ; and  let  the  neighing  of  the  horse  inform  them  that  they  are  arrived  at 
their  journey’s  end.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  635 

Thus  having  made  his  speech,  the  savage  turned  about  with  his  companions,  and,  leaving 
Clavileno,  they  marched  out  handsomely  the  same  way  they  came  in. 

The  Disconsolate  Matron,  seeing  the  horse,  almost  with  tears  addressed  Don  Quixote. 
“ Valorous  knight,”  cried  she,  “ Malambruno  is  a man  of  his  word ; the  horse  is  here,  our 

beards  bud  on  ; therefore  I and  every  one  of  us  conjure  you,  by  all  the  hairs  on  our  chins, 

to  hasten  our  deliverance,  since  there  needs  no  more  but  that  you  and  your  squire  get  up, 
and  give  a happy  beginning  to  your  intended  journey.” 

“ Madam,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  do  it  with  all  my  heart ; I will  not  so  much 
as  stay  for  a cushion,  or  to  put  on  my  spurs,  but  mount  instantly  ; such  is  my  impatience  to 
disbeard  your  ladyship’s  face,  and  restore  you  to  all  your  former  gracefulness.” 

“That  is  more  than  I should  do,”  quoth  Sancho;  “I  am  not  in  such  plaguy  haste,  not 

I ; and  if  the  quick-set  hedges  on  their  snouts  cannot  be  lopped  off  without  my  riding  on 

that  hard  crupper,  let  my  master  furnish  himself  with  another  squire,  and  these  gentlewomen 
get  some  other  barber.  I am  no  witch,  sure,  to  ride  through  the  air  at  this  rate  on  a broom- 
stick ! What  will  my  islanders  say,  think  ye,  when  they  hear  their  governor  is  flying  like 
a paper  kite  ? Besides,  it  is  three  or  four  thousand  leagues  from  hence  to  Candaya  ; and 
what  if  the  horse  should  tire  upon  the  road,  or  the  giant  grow  humorsome  ? what  would 
become  of  us  then  ? No,  no,  I know  better  things.  What  says  the  old  proverb  ? ‘ Delays 
breed  danger  and,  ‘ When  a cow  is  given  thee,  run  and  halter  her.’  I am  the  gentlewoman’s 
humble  servant,  but  they  and  their  beards  must  excuse  me,  faith  ! St.  Peter  is  well  at  Rome, 
that  is  to  say,  here  I am  much  made  of,  and,  by  the  master  of  the  house’s  good  will,  I hope 
to  see  myself  a governor.” 

“Friend  Sancho,”  said  the  duke,  “as  for  your  island,  it  neither  floats  nor  stirs,  so  there 
is  no  fear  it  should  run  away  before  you  come  back ; the  foundations  of  it  are  fixed  and 
rooted  in  the  profound  abyss  of  the  earth.  Now,  because  you  must  needs  think  I cannot 
but  know  that  there  is  no  kind  of  office  of  any  value  that  is  not  purchased  with  some  sort 
of  bribe,  or  gratification  of  one  kind  or  other,  all  that  I expect  for  advancing  you  to  this, 
government  is  only  that  you  wait  on  your  master  in  this  expedition,  that  there  may  be  an 
end  of  this  memorable  adventure.  And  I here  engage  my  honour,  that  whether  you  return 
on  Clavileno  with  all  the  speed  his  swiftness  promises,  or  that  it  should  be  your  ill  fortune 
to  be  obliged  to  foot  it  back  like  a pilgrim,  begging  from  inn  to  inn,  and  door  to  door, 
still,  whenever  you  come  you  will  find  your  island  where  you  left  it,  and  your  islanders  as 
glad  to  receive  you  for  their  governor  as  ever.  And  for  my  own  part,  Signior  Sancho, 
you  would  very  much  wrong  my  friendship,  should  you  in  the  least  doubt  my  readiness  to 
serve  you.” 

“ Good  your  worship,  say  no  more,”  cried  Sancho  ; “ I am  but  a poor  squire,  and  your 
goodness  is  too  great  a load  for  my  shoulders.  But  hang  baseness ; mount,  master,  and 
blindfold  me,  somebody ; wish  me  a good  voyage,  and  pray  for  me.  But  hark  ye,  good 


636 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


folks,  when  I am  got  up,  and  fly  in  the  skies,  may  not  I say  my  prayers,  and  call  on  the 
angels  myself  to  help  me,  trow  ?” 

“ Yes,  yes,”  answered  Trifaldi ; “ for  Malambruno,  though  an  enchanter,  is  nevertheless 
a Christian,  and  does  all  things  with  a great  deal  of  sagacity,  having  nothing  to  do  with  those 
he  should  not  meddle  with.” 

“ Come  on,  then,”  quoth  Sancho. 

“ Thy  fear,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ might,  by  a superstitious  mind,  be  thought 
ominous.  Since  the  adventure  of  the  fulling-mills,  I have  not  seen  thee  possessed  with  such 
a panic  terror.  But  hark  ye,  begging  this  noble  company’s  leave,  I must  have  a word  with 
you  in  private.” 

Then  withdrawing  into  a distant  part  of  the  garden  among  some  trees,  “ My  dear  Sancho,” 
said  he,  “ thou  seest  we  are  going  to  take  a long  journey ; thou  art  no  less  sensible  of  the 
uncertainty  of  our  return,  and  Heaven  alone  can  tell  what  leisure  or  conveniency  we  may 
have  in  all  that  time.  Let  me  therefore  beg  thee  to  slip  aside  to  thy  chamber,  as  if  it  were 
to  get  thyself  ready  for  our  journey,  and  there  presently  dispatch  me  only  some  five  hundred 
lashes,  on  account  of  the  three  thousand  three  hundred  thou  standest  engaged  for ; it  will 
soon  be  done,  and  a business  well  begun,  you  know,  is  half  ended.” 

“Stark  mad,  before  George!”  cried  Sancho.  “I  wonder  you  are  not  ashamed,  sir.  I 

am  just  going  to  ride  the  wooden  horse,  and  you  would  have  me  flay  myself!  Come,  come, 

sir,  let  us  do  one  thing  after  another ; let  us  get  off  these  women’s  whiskers,  and  then  I will 

feague  it  away  for  Dulcinea.  I have  no  more  to  say  on  the  matter  at  present.” 

“ Well,  honest  Sancho,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  take  thy  word  for  once,  and  I hope 
thou  wilt  make  it  good ; for  I believe  thou  art  more  fool  than  knave.” 

“I  am  what  I am,”  quoth  Sancho;  “but  whatever  I be  I will  keep  my  word,  never  fear  it.” 

Upon  this  they  returned  to  the  company;  and,  just  as  they  were  going  to  mount,  “Blind 
thy  eyes,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  get  up.  Sure  he  that  sends  so  far  for  us  can 

have  no  design  to  deceive  us  ; since  it  would  never  be  to  his  credit  to  delude  those  that  rely 

on  his  word  of  honour ; and,  though  the  success  should  not  be  answerable  to  our  desires, 

still  the  glory  of  so  brave  an  attempt  will  be  ours,  and  it  is  not  in  the  power  of  malice  to 

eclipse  it.” 

“To  horse,  then,  sir,”  cried  Sancho,  “to  horse.  The  tears  of  these  poor  bearded  gentle- 
women have  melted  my  heart,  and  methinks  I feel  the  bristles  sticking  in  it.  I shall  not  eat 
a bit  to  do  me  good,  till  I see  them  have  as  pretty  dimpled  smooth  chins,  and  soft  lips,  as 
they  had  before.  Mount,  then,  I say,  and  blindfold  yourself  first ; for,  if  I must  ride  behind, 
it  is  a plain  case  you  must  get  up  before  me.” 

“ That  is  right,”  said  Don.  Quixote ; and,  with  that,  pulling  a handkerchief  out  of  his 
pocket,  he  gave  it  to  the  Disconsolate  Matron  to  hoodwink  him  close.  She  did  so  ; but, 
presently  after,  uncovering  himself,  “If  I remember  right,”  said  he,  “ we  read  in  Virgil  of  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


637 


Trojan  Palladium,  that  wooden  horse  which  the  Greeks  offered  Pallas,  full  of  armed  knights, 
who  afterwards  proved  the  total  ruin  of  that  famous  city.  It  were  prudent,  therefore,  before 
we  get  up,  to  probe  this  steed,  and  see  what  he  has  inside.” 

“You  need  not,”  said  the  Countess  Trifaldi ; “I  dare  engage  there  is  no  ground  for  any 
such  surmise ; for  Malambruno  is  a man  of  honour,  and  would  not  so  much  as  countenance 
any  base  or  treacherous  practice  ; and  whatever  accident  befalls  you  I dare  answer  for.” 

Upon  this  Don  Quixote  mounted,  without  any  reply,  imagining  that  what  he  might 
further  urge  concerning  his  security  would  be  a reflection  on  his  valour.  He  then  began  to 
try  the  pin,  which  was  easily  turned ; and  as  he  sat,  with  his  long  legs  stretched  at  length 
for  want  of  stirrups,  he  looked  like  one  of  those  antique  figures  in  a Roman  triumph,  woven 
in  some  old  piece  of  arras. 

Sancho,  very  leisurely  and  unwillingly,  was  made  to  climb  up  behind  him  ; and,  fixing 
himself,  as  well  as  he  could,  on  the  crupper,  felt  it  somewhat  hard  and  uneasy.  With  that, 
looking  on  the  duke,  “ Good,  my  lord,”  quoth  he,  “ will  you  lend  me  something  to  clap  under 
me ; some  pillow  from  the  page’s  bed,  or  the  duchess’s  cushion  of  state,  or  anything  ? for 
this  horse’s  crupper  is  so  confounded  hard,  I fancy  it  is  rather  marble  than  wood.” 

“ It  is  needless,”  said  the  countess  ; “ for  Clavileno  will  bear  no  kind  of  furniture  upon 
him  ; so  that,  for  your  greater  ease,  you  had  best  sit  sideways,  like  a woman.” 

Sancho  took  her  advice ; and  then,  after  he  had  taken  his  leave  of  the  company,  they 
bound  a cloth  over  his  eyes ; but,  presently  after,  uncovering  his  face,  with  a pitiful  look  on 
all  the  spectators,  “ Good,  tender-hearted  Christians,”  cried  he,  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  “ bestow 
a few  Pater  Nosters  and  Ave  Marias  on  a poor  departing  brother,  and  pray  for  my  soul,  as 
you  expect  the  like  charity  yourselves  in  such  a condition!” 

“ What ! you  rascal,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ do  you  think  yourself  at  the  gallows,  and  at 
the  point  of  death,  that  you  hold  forth  in  such  a lamentable  strain  ? Dastardly  wretch  ! 
dost  thou  not  know  that  the  fair  Magalona  once  sat  in  thy  place,  and  alighted  from 

thence,  not  into  the  grave,  thou  chicken-hearted  varlet,  but  into  the  throne  of  France,  if  there 

is  any  truth  in  history  ? And  do  not  I sit  by  thee,  that  I may  vie  with  the  valorous  Peter 

of  Provence,  and  press  the  seat  that  was  once  pressed  by  him  ? Come,  blindfold  thy  eyes, 

poor  spiritless  animal ! and  let  me  not  know  thee  betray  the  least  symptom  of  fear.” 

“ Well,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ hoodwink  me  then  among  you  : but  it  is  no  marvel  one  should 
be  afraid,  when  you  will  not  let  one  say  his  prayers,  nor  be  prayed  for,  though,  for  aught  I 
know,  we  may  have  a legion  of  imps  about  our  ears,  to  clap  us  up  in  some  strange  place  presently.” 

Now,  both  being  hoodwinked,  and  Don  Quixote  perceiving  everything  ready  for  their 
setting  out,  began  to  turn  the  pin ; and,  no  sooner  had  he  set  his  hand  to  it,  than  the  waiting- 
women  and  all  the  company  set  up  their  throats,  calling  out,  “ Speed  you,  speed  you  well, 
valorous  knight!  Heaven  be  your  guide,  undaunted  squire!  Now,  now,  you  fly  aloft!  See 
how  they  cut  the  air  more  swiftly  than  an  arrow  ! Now  they  mount,  and  tower,  and  soar, 


638 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


while  the  gazing  world  wonders  at  their  course.  Sit  fast,  sit  fast,  courageous  Sancho  ! you 
do  not  sit  steady  ; have  a care  of  falling ; for,  should  you  now  drop  from  that  amazing  height, 
your  fall  would  be  greater  than  the  aspiring  youth’s  that  misguided  the  chariot  of  the  Sun.” 

All  this  Sancho  heard,  and,  girting  his  arms  fast  about  his  master’s  waist,  “ Sir,”  quoth 
he,  “why  do  they  say  we  are  so  high,  since  we  can  hear  their  voices?  Truly,  I hear  them 
so  plainly,  that  one  would  think  they  were  close  by  us.” 

“Never  mind  that,”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “for  in  these  extraordinary  kinds  of  flight 
we  must  suppose  our  hearing  and  seeing  will  be  extraordinary  also.  But  do  not  hold  me  so 
hard,  for  you  will  make  me  tumble  off.  What  makes  thee  tremble  so  ? I am  sure  I never 
rode  easier  in  all  my  life ; our  horse  goes  as  if  he  did  not  move  at  all.  Come,  then,  take 
courage ; we  make  swinging  way,  and  have  a fair  and  merry  gale.” 

“ I think  so,  too,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ for  I feel  the  wind  puff  as  briskly  upon  me  here  as 

if  I do  not  know  how  many  pairs  of  bellows  were  blowing  wind  on  me.” 

Sancho  was  not  altogether  in  the  wrong ; for  two  or  three  pairs  of  bellows  were  indeed 
levelled  at  him  then,  which  gave  air  very  plentifully ; so  well  had  the  plot  of  this  adventure 
been  laid  by  the  duke,  the  duchess,  and  their  steward. 

Don  Quixote  at  last  feeling  the  wind,  “ Sure,”  said  he,  “ we  must  be  risen  to  the  middle 
region  of  the  air,  where  the  winds,  hail,  snow,  thunder,  lightning,  and  other  meteors  are  produced  ; 
so  that,  if  we  mount  at  this  rate,  we  shall  be  in  the  region  of  fire  presently  ; and  what  is  worse, 
I do  not  know  how  to  manage  this  pin,  so  as  to  avoid  being  scorched  and  roasted  alive.” 

At  the  same  time  some  flax,  with  other  combustible  matter,  which  had  been  got  ready, 

was  clapped  at  the  end  of  a long  stick,  and  set  on  fire  at  a small  distance  from  their  noses  ; 

and  the  heat  and  smoke  affecting  the  knight  and  the  squire,  “ May  I be  hanged,”  quoth  Sancho, 
“ if  we  be  not  come  to  this  fire-place  you  talk  of,  or  very  near  it,  for  the  half  of  ray  beard  is 
singed  already.  I have  a huge  mind  to  peep  out,  and  see  whereabouts  we  are.” 

“ By  no  means,”  answered  Don  Quixote.  “ I remember  the  strange  but  true  story  of  Dr. 
Torralva,  who  was  carried  to  Rome,  hoodwinked  and  bestriding  a reed,  in  twelve  hours’  time. 
There  he  saw  the  dreadful  tumult,  assault,  and  death  of  the  Constable  of  Bourbon ; and  the 
next  morning  he  found  himself  at  Madrid,  where  he  related  the  whole  story.  Among  other 
things,  he  said,  as  he  went  through  the  air,  he  was  bid  to  open  his  eyes,  which  he  did, 
and  then  he  found  himself  so  near  the  moon,  that  he  could  touch  it  with  his  finger ; but 
durst  not  look  towards  the  earth,  lest  the  distance  should  make  his  brains  turn  round.  So, 
Sancho,  we  must  not  unveil  our  eyes,  but  rather  wholly  trust  to  the  care  and  providence  of 
him  that  has  charge  of  us,  and  fear  nothing,  for  we  only  mount  high  to  come  souse  down, 
like  a hawk,  upon  the  kingdom  of  Candaya,  which  we  shall  reach  presently  ; for,  though  it 
appears  to  us  not  half  an  hour  since  we  left  the  garden,  we  have,  nevertheless,  travelled  over 
a vast  tract  of  air.” 

“I  know  nothing  of  the  matter,”  replied  Sancho;  “but  of  this  I am  very  certain,  that 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  fr.g 

if  your  Madam  Magulane,  or  Magalona  (what  do  you  call  her?),  could  sit  this  wooden  crupper’ 
without  a good  cushion,  she  must  have  had  a harder  skin  than  mine.” 

This  dialogue  was  certainly  very  pleasant  all  this  while  to  the  duke  and  duchess,  and 
the  rest  of  the  company ; and  now,  at  last,  resolving  to  put  an  end  to  this  extraordinary 
adventure,  which  had  so  long  entertained  them  successfully,  they  ordered  one  of  their  servants 
to  give  fire  to  Clavileno’s  tail ; and  the  horse  being  stuffed  full  of  squibs,  crackers,  and  other 
fireworks,  burst  presently  into  pieces,  with  a mighty  noise,  throwing  the  knight  one  way,  and 
the  squire  another,  both  sufficiently  singed.  By  this  time  the  Disconsolate  Matron  and 
bearded  regiment  were  vanished  out  of  the  garden,  and  all  the  rest,  counterfeiting  a trance, 
lay  flat  upon  the  ground.  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho,  sorely  bruised,  made  shift  to  get  up, 
and,  looking  about,  were  amazed  to  find  themselves  in  the  same  garden  whence  they  took 
horse,  and  see  such  a number  of  people  lie  dead,  as  they  thought,  on  the  ground.  But  their 
wonder  was  diverted  by  the  appearance  of  a large  lance  stuck  in  the  ground,  and  a scroll  of 
white  parchment  fastened  to  it  by  two  green  silken  strings,  with  the  following  inscription  upon 
it  in  grolden  characters  : — ■ 

o 

“ The  renowned  knight,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  achieved  the  adventure  of  the 
Countess  Trifaldi,  otherwise  called  the  Disconsolate  Matron,  and  her  companions  in  distress, 
by  barely  attempting  it.  Malambruno  is  fully  satisfied.  The  waiting-gentlewomen  have  lost 
their  beards.  King  Clavijo  and  Queen  Antonomasia  have  resumed  their  pristine  shapes ; 
and,  when  the  squire’s  penance  shall  be  finished,  the  white  dove  shall  escape  the  pounces  of 
the  hawks  that  pursue  her.  This  is  pre-ordained  by  the  Sage  Merlin,  the  prince  of  enchanters.” 

Don  Quixote  having  read  this  oracle,  and  construing  it  to  refer  to  Dulcinea’s  disenchant- 
ment, rendered  thanks  to  Heaven  for  so  great  a deliverance ; and  approaching  the  duke  and 
duchess,  who  seemed  as  yet  in  a swoon,  he  took  the  duke  by  the  hand  : “ Courage,  courage  ! 
noble  sir,”  cried  he ; “ there  is  no  danger  ; the  adventure  is  finished  without  bloodshed,  as  you 
may  read  it  registered  in  that  record.” 

The  duke,  yawning  and  stretching  as  if  he  had  been  waked  out  of  a sound  sleep,  recovered 
himself  by  degrees,  as  did  the  duchess  and  the  rest  of  the  company.  The  duke,  rubbing  his 
eyes,  made  a shift  to  read  the  scroll ; then,  embracing  Don  Quixote,  he  extolled  his  valour  to 
the  skies,  assuring  him  he  was  the  bravest  knight  the  earth  had  ever  possessed.  As  for 
Sancho,  he  was  looking  up  and  down  the  garden  for  the  Disconsolate  Matron,  to  see  what 
sort  of  a face  she  had  got,  now  her  furze-bush  was  off.  But  he  was  informed  that  as 
Clavileno  came  down  flaming  in  the  air,  the  countess,  with  her  women,  vanished  immediately, 
but  not  one  of  them  chin-bristled,  nor  so  much  as  a hair  upon  their  faces. 

Then  the  duchess  asked  Sancho  how  he  had  fared  in  his  long  voyage. 

“ Why  truly,  madam,”  answered  he,  “ I have  seen  wonders ; for  you  must  know  that, 
though  my  master  would  not  suffer  me  to  pull  the  cloth  from  my  eyes,  yet  as  I have  a kind 
of  itch  to  know  everything,  and  a spice  of  the  spirit  of  contradiction,  still  hankering  after 


640 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


what  is.  forbidden  me,  so  when,  as  my  master  told  me,  we  were  flying  through  the  region 
of  fire,  I pushed  my  handkerchief  a little  above  my  nose,  and  looked  down,  and  what  do  you 
think  I saw  ? I spied  the  earth  a hugeous  way  afar  off  below  me  (Heaven  bless  us!),  no 
bigger  than  a mustard-seed  ; and  the  men  walking  to  and  fro  upon  it,  not  much  larger  than 
hazel-nuts.  Judge  now  if  we  were  not  got  up  woundy  high  !” 

" Have  a care  what  you  say,  my  friend,”  said  the  duchess;  “ for  if  the  men  were  bigger 
than  hazel-nuts,  and  the  earth  no  bigger  than  a mustard-seed,  one  man  must  be  bigger  than 
the  whole  earth,  and  cover  it  so  that  you  could  not  see  it.” 

“ Like  enough,”  answered  Sancho ; “ but  for  all  that,  do  you  see,  I saw  it  with  a kind  of 
a side-look  upon  one  part  of  it,  or  so.” 

. “ Lpok  you,  Sancho,”  replied  the  duchess,  “ that  will  not  bear ; for  nothing  can  be  wholly 
seen  by  any  part  of  it.” 

“Well,  well,  madam,”  quoth  Sancho,  “I  do  not  understand  your  parts  and  wholes:  I 
saw  it,  and  there  is  an  end  of  the  story.  Only  you  must  think,  that  as  we  flew  by  enchant- 
ment, so  we  saw  by  enchantment ; and  thus  I might  see  the  earth,  and  all  the  men,  which 
way  soever  I looked.  I will  warrant  you  will  not  believe  me  neither  when  I tell  you  that, 
when  I thrust  up  the  kerchief  above  my  brows,  I saw  myself  so  near  heaven,  that  between 
the  top  of  my  cap  and  the  main  sky,  there  was  not  a span  and  a half.  And,  Heaven  bless 
us ! forsooth,  what  a hugeous  great  place  it  is ! and  we  happened  to  travel  that  road  where 
the  seven  she  goat  stars  were ; and,  faith  and  troth  ! I had  such  a mind  to  play  with  them 
(having  been  once  a goat-herd  myself),  that  I fancy  I would  have  cried  myself  to  death,  had 
I not  done  it.  So,  soon  as  I spied  them,  what  does  me  but  sneaks  down  very  soberly  from 
behind  my  master,  without  telling  any  living  soul,  and  played  and  leaped  about  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  by  the  clock,  with  the  pretty  nanny-goats,  who  are  as  sweet  and  fine  as 
so  many  marigolds  ; and  honest  Wooden  Peg  stirred  not  one  step  all  the  while.” 

“ And  while  Sancho  employed  himself  with  the  goats,”  asked  the  duke,  “ how  was  Don 
Quixote  employed  ?” 

“ Truly,”  answered  the  knight,  “ I am  sensible  all  things  were  altered  from  their  natural 
course ; therefore  what  Sancho  says  seems  the  less  strange  to  me.  But,  for  my  own  part, 
I neither  saw  heaven  nor  hell,  sea  nor  shore.  I perceived,  indeed,  we  passed  through  the 
middle  region  of  the  air,  and  were  pretty  near  that  of  fire,  but  that  we  came  so  near  heaven 
as  Sancho  says  is  altogether  incredible ; because  we  then  must  have  passed  quite  through 
the  fiery  region,  which  lies  between  the  sphere  of  the  moon  and  the  upper  region  of  the  air. 
Now  it  was  impossible  for  us  to  reach  that  part  where  are  the  Pleiades,  or  the  Seven  Goats, 
as  Sancho  calls  them,  without  being  consumed  in  the  elemental  fire  ; and,  therefore,  since  we 
escaped  those  flames,  certainly  we  did  not  soar  so  high,  and  Sancho  either  lies  or  dreams.” 

“ I neither  lie  nor  dream,”  replied  Sancho.  “ Indeed,  I can  tell  you  the  marks  and 
colour  of  every  goat  among  them  : if  you  do  not  believe  me,  do  but  ask  and  try  me.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


641 

“ Well,”  said  the  duchess,  “ pr’ythee  tell  me,  Sancho.” 

“ Look  you,”  answered  Sancho,  “ there  were  two  of  them  green,  two  carnation,  two  blue, 
and  one  party-coloured.” 

“Truly,”  said  the  duke,  “that  is  a new  kind  of  goats  you  have  found  out,  Sancho;  we 
have  none  of  those  colours  upon  earth.” 

“ Sure,  sir,”  replied  Sancho,  “ you  will  make  some  sort  of  difference  between  heavenly 
she  goats  and  the  goats  of  this  world  ?” 

“ But,  Sancho,”  said  the  duke,  “ among  these  she  goats  did  you  never  see  a he  ? not 
-one  horned  beast  of  the  masculine  gender  ?” 

“Not  one,  sir;  I saw  no  other  horned  thing  but  the  moon;  and  I have  been  told  that 

neither  he  goats  nor  any  other  cornuted  tups  are  suffered  to  lift  their  horns  beyond  those  of 

the  moon.” 

They  did  not  ask  Sancho  any  more  questions  about  his  airy  voyage  ; for,  in  the  humour 
he  was  in,  they  judged  he  would  not  stick  to  ramble  all  over  the  heavens,  and  tell  them 
.news  of  whatever  was  doing  there,  though  he  had  not  stirred  out  of  the  garden  all  the  while. 

“ Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  whispering  him  in  the  ear,  “ since  thou  wouldst  have  us 

believe  what  thou  hast  seen  in  heaven,  I desire  thee  to  believe  what  I saw  in  the  cave  of 

Montesinos.  Not  a word  more.” 


m 


1 


CHAPTER  XLII. 


THE  INSTRUCTIONS  WHICH  DON  QUIXOTE  GAVE  SANCHO  PANZA  BEFORE  HE  WENT  TO  THE  GOVERNMENT 

OF  IIIS  ISLAND,  WITH  OTHER  MATTERS  OF  MOMENT. 

THE  satisfaction  which  the  duke  and  duchess  received  by  the  happy  success  of  the 
adventure  of  the  Disconsolate  Matron,  encouraged  them  to  carry  on  some  other 
pleasant  project,  since  they  could,  with  so  much  ease,  impose  upon  the  credulity  of  Don  Quixote 
and  his  squire.  Having  therefore  giving  instructions  to  their  servants  and  vassals  how  to 
behave  themselves  towards  Sancho  in  his  government,  the  day  after  the  scene  of  the  wooden 
horse,  the  duke  bid  Sancho  prepare,  and  be  in  readiness  to  take  possession  of  his  government ; 
for  now  his  islanders  wished  as  heartily  for  him  as  they  did  for  rain  in  a dry  summer.  Sancho 
made  a humble  bow,  and  looking  demurely  on  the  duke,  “ Sir,”  quoth  he,  “ since  I came  down 
from  heaven,  whence  I saw  the  earth  so  very  small,  I am  not  half  so  hot  as  I was  for  being 
a governor.  For  what  greatness  can  there  be  in  being  at  the  head  of  a puny  dominion,  that 
is  but  a little  nook  of  a tiny  mustard-seed  ? and  what  dignity  and  power  can  a man  be  reckoned 
to  have  in  governingr  half-a-dozen  men  no  biesfer  than  hazel-nuts?  For  I could  not  think  there 
were  any  more  in  the  whole  world.  No,  if  your  grace  would  throw  away  upon  me  never  so 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  5^ 

little  a corner  in  heaven,  though  it  were  but  half  a league  or  so,  I would  take  it  with  better 
will  than  I would  the  largest  island  on  earth.” 

“Friend  Sancho,”  answered  the  duke,  “I  cannot  dispose  of  an  inch  of  heaven;  for  that  is 
the  province  of  God  alone  : but  what  I am  able  to  bestow  I give  you  ; that  is,  an  island,  tight 
and  clever,  round  and  well-proportioned,  fertile  and  plentiful  to  such  a degree,  that  if  you  have 
but  the  art  and  understanding  to  manage  things  right,  you  may  hoard  there  both  of  the  treasures 
of  this  world  and  the  next.” 

“Well,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “let  me  have  this  island,  and  I will  do  my  best  to  be  such 
a governor,  that,  in  spite  of  rogues,  I shall  not  want  a small  nook  in  heaven  one  day  or  other. 

It  is  not  out  of  covetousness  neither,  that  I would  leave  my  little  cot,  and  set  up  for  some- 

body, but  merely  to  know  what  kind  of  thing  it  is  to  be  a governor.” 

“Oh,  Sancho!”  said  the  duke;  “when  once  you  have  had  a taste  of  it,  you  will  never 

leave  licking  your  fingers,  it  is  so  sweet  and  bewitching  a thing  to  command  and  be  obeyed. 
I am  confident,  when  your  master  comes  to  be  an  emperor  (as  he  cannot  fail  to  be,  according 
to  the  course  of  his  affairs),  he  will  never,  by  any  consideration,  be  persuaded  to  abdicate  ; 
his  only  grief  will  be  that  he  was  one  no  sooner.” 

“Troth,  sir,”  replied  Sancho,  “I  am  of  your  mind;  it  is  a dainty  thing  to  command, 
though  it  were  but  a flock  of  sheep.” 

“Oh,  Sancho!”  cried  the  duke,  “let  me  live  and  die  with  thee:  for  thou  hast  an  insight 
into  everything.  I hope  thou  wilt  prove  as  good  a governor  as  thy  wisdom  bespeaks  thee. 
But  no  more  at  this  time ; to-morrow,  without  further  delay,  you  set  forward  to  your  island, 
and  shall  be  furnished  this  afternoon  with  equipage  and  dress  answerable  to  your  post,  and 
all  other  necessaries  for  your  journey.” 

“ Let  them  dress  me  as  they  will,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I shall  be  the  same  Sancho  Panza 
still.” 

“ That  is  true,”  said  the  duke,  “ yet  every  man  ought  to  wear  clothes  suitable  to  his 
place  and  dignity  ; for  a lawyer  should  not  go  dressed  like  a soldier,  nor  a soldier  like  a priest. 
As  for  you,  Sancho,  you  are  to  wear  the  habit  both  of  a captain  and  a civil  magistrate ; so 
your  dress  shall  be  a compound  of  those  two  ; for  in  the  government  that  I bestow  on  you, 
arms  are  as  necessary  as  learning,  and  a man  of  letters  as  requisite  as  a swordsman.” 

“ Nay,  as  for  letters,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I cannot  say  much  for  myself : for  as  yet  I scarce 
know  my  A,  B,  C ; but  yet,  if  I can  but  remember  my  Christ’s-cross,  it  is  enough  to  make 
me  a good  governor.  As  for  my  arms,  I will  not  quit  my  weapon  as  long  as  I can  stand, 
and  so  Heaven  be  our  cruard!” 

c> 

“ Sancho  cannot  do  amiss,”  said  the  duke,  “ while  he  remembers  these  things.” 

By  this  time  Don  Quixote  arrived,  and  hearing  how  suddenly  Sancho  was  to  go  to  his 
government,  with  the  duke’s  permission,  he  took  him  aside  to  give  him  some  good  instructions 
for  his  conduct  in  the  discharge  of  his  office. 


644 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Being  entered  Don  Quixote’s  chamber,  and  the  door  shut,  he  almost  forcibly  obliged 
Sancho  to  sit  by  him  ; and  then,  with  a grave  and  deliberate  voice,  he  thus  began  : — 

“ I give  Heaven  infinite  thanks,  friend  Sancho,  that,  before  I have  the  happiness  of  being 
put  in  possession  of  my  hopes,  I can  see  thine  already  crowned ; fortune  hastening  to  meet 
thee  with  thy  wishes.  I,  who  had  assigned  the  reward  of  thy  services  upon  my  happy 
success,  am  yet  but  on  the  way  to  preferment ; and  thou,  beyond  all  reasonable  expectation, 
art  arrived  at  the  aim  and  end  of  thy  desires.  Some  are  assiduous,  solicitous,  importunate, 
rise  early,  bribe,  entreat,  press,  will  take  no  denial,  obstinately  persist  in  their  suit,  and  yet 
at  last  never  obtain  it.  Another  comes  on,  and,  by  a lucky  hit  or  chance,  bears  away  the 
prize,  and  jumps  into  the  preferment  which  so  many  had  pursued  in  vain  ; which  verifies  the 

Saying,  < happy  have  their  days,  and  those  they  choose  ; 

The  unhappy  have  but  hours,  and  those  they  lose.’ 

Thou,  who  seemest  to  me  a very  blockhead,  without  sitting  up  late,  or  rising  early,  or  any 
manner  of  fatigue  or  trouble,  only  the  air  of  knight-errantry  being  breathed  on  thee,  art  advanced 
to  the  government  of  an  island  in  a trice,  as  if  it  were  a thing  of  no  moment,  a very  trifle. 
I speak  this,  my  dear  Sancho,  not  to  upbraid  thee,  nor  out  of  envy,  but  only  to  let  thee  know 
thou  art  not  to  attribute  all  this  success  to  thy  own  merit,  while  it  is  entirely  owing  to  the 
kind  heavenly  Disposer  of  human  affairs,  to  whom  thy  thanks  ought  to  be  returned.  But, 
next  to  Heaven,  thou  art  to  ascribe  thy  happiness  to  the  greatness  of  the  profession  of  knignc- 
errantry,  which  includes  within  itself  such  stores  of  honour  and  preferment. 

“ Being  convinced  of  what  I have  already  said,  be  yet  attentive,  oh,  my  son,  to  what  I,, 
thy  Cato,  have  further  to  say  : listen,  I say,  to  my  admonitions,  and  I will  be  thy  north  star, 
and  thy  pilot  to  steer  and  bring  thee  safe  into  the  port  of  honour,  out  of  the  tempestuous, 
ocean,  into  which  thou  art  just  going  to  launch ; for  offices  and  great  employments  are  no- 
better  than  profound  gulphs  of  confusion. 

“ First  of  all,  oh,  my  son,  fear  God  : for  the  fear  of  God  is  the  beginning  of  wisdom,  and 
wisdom  will  never  let  thee  go  astray. 

“ Secondly,  consider  what  thou  wert,  and  make  it  thy  business  to  know  thyself,  which 

is  the  most  difficult  lesson  in  the  world.  Yet  from  this  lesson  thou  wilt  learn  to  avoid  the 

frog’s  foolish  ambition  of  swelling  to  rival  the  bigness  of  the  ox ; else  the  consideration  of 
your  having  been  a hog-driver  will  be,  to  the  wheel  of  your  fortune,  like  the  peacock’s  ugly 
feet.” 

“ True,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  I was  then  but  a little  boy  ; for  when  I grew  up  to  be 

somewhat  bigger,  I drove  geese,  and  not  hogs  ; but  methinks  that  is  nothing  to  the  purpose,, 

for  all  governors  cannot  come  from  kings  and  princes.” 

“Very  true,”  pursued  Don  Quixote;  “therefore  those  who  want  a noble  descent  must 
allay  the  severity  of  their  office  with  mildness  and  civility,  which,  directed  by  wisdom,  may 
secure  them  from  the  murmurs  and  malice  from  which  no  state  or  condition  is  exempt. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


645 


“ Be  well  pleased  with  the  meanness  of  thy  family,  Sancho,  nor  think  it  a disgrace  to 
own  thyself  derived  from  labouring  men ; for,  if  thou  art  not  ashamed  of  thyself,  nobody  else 
will  strive  to  make  thee  so.  Endeavour  rather  to  be  esteemed  humble  and  virtuous,  than 
proud  and  vicious.  The  number  is  almost  infinite  of  those  who,  from  low  and  vulgar  births, 
have  been  raised  to  the  highest  dignities,  to  the  Papal  chair,  and  the  imperial  throne ; and 
this  I could  prove  by  examples  enough  to  tire  thy  patience. 

“ Make  virtue  the  medium  of  all  thy  actions,  and  thou  wilt  have  no  cause  to  envy  those 
whose  birth  gives  them  the  titles  of  great  men  and  princes  ; for  nobility  is  inherited,  but 
virtue  acquired  : and  virtue  is  worth  more  in  itself  than  nobleness  of  birth. 

“ If  any  of  thy  poor  relations  come  to  see  thee,  never  reject  nor  affront  them  ; but,  on 

the  contrary,  receive  and  entertain  them  with  marks  of  favour ; in  this  thou  wilt  display  a 

generosity  of  nature,  and  please  Heaven,  that  would  have  nobody  to  despise  what  it  has  made. 

“ If  thou  sendest  for  thy  wife,  as  it  is  not  fit  a man  in  thy  station  should  be  long  without 

his  wife,  and  she  ought  to  partake  of  her  husband’s  good  fortune,  teach  her,  instruct  her, 

polish  her  the  best  thou  canst,  till  her  native  rusticity  is  refined  to  a handsomer  behaviour ; 
for  often  an  ill-bred  wife  throws  down  all  that  a good  and  discreet  husband  can  build  up. 

“ Shouldst  thou  come  to  be  a widower  (which  is  not  impossible),  and  thy  post  recommend 
thee  to  a bride  of  a higher  degree,  take  not  one  that  shall,  like  a fishing-rod,  only  serve  to 
catch  bribes.  For,  take  it  from  me,  the  judge  must,  at  the  general  and  last  court  of  judicature, 
give  a strict  account  of  the  discharge  of  his  duty,  and  must  pay  severely  at  his  dying  day  for 
what  he  has  suffered  his  wife  to  take. 

“ Let  never  obstinate  self-conceit  be  thy  guide  ; it  is  the  vice  of  the  ignorant,  who  vainly 
presume  on  their  understanding. 

“ Let  the  tears  of  the  poor  find  more  compassion,  though  not  more  justice,  than  the 
informations  of  the  rich. 

“ Be  equally  solicitous  to  find  out  the  truth,  where  the  offers  and  presents  of  the  rich, 
and  the  sobs  and  importunities  of  the  poor,  are  in  the  way. 

“ Wherever  equity  should  or  may  take  place,  let  not  the  extent  or  rigour  of  the  law  bear 
too  much  on  the  delinquent ; for  it  is  not  a better  character  in  a judge  to  be  rigorous,  than 
to  be  indulgent. 

“ When  the  severity  of  the  law  is  to  be  softened,  let  pity,  not  bribes,  be  the  motive. 

“If  thy  enemy  have  a cause  before  thee,  turn  away  thy  eyes  from  thy  prejudices,  and 
fix  them  on  the  matter  of  fact. 

“In  another  man’s  cause  be  not  blinded  by  thy  own  passions,  for  those  errors  are  almost 
without  remedy  ; or  their  cure  will  prove  expensive  to  thy  wealth  and  reputation. 

“ When  a beautiful  woman  comes  before  thee,  turn  away  thy  eyes  from  her  tears,  and 
thy  ears  from  her  lamentations ; and  take  time  to  consider  sedately  her  petition,  if  thou 
wouldst  not  have  thy  reason  and  honesty  lost  in  her  sighs  and  tears. 


646 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Revile  not  with  words  those  whom  their  crimes  oblige  thee  to  punish  in  deed  : for  the 
punishment  is  enough  to  the  wretches,  without  the  addition  of  ill  language. 

“ In  the  trial  of  criminals,  consider  as  much  as  thou  canst,  without  prejudice  to  the  plaintiff, 
how  defenceless  and  open  the  miserable  are  to  the  temptations  of  our  corrupt  and  depraved 
nature,  and  so  far  show  thyself  full  of  pity  and  clemency ; for  though  God’s  attributes  are 
equal,  yet  his  mercy  is  more  attractive  and  pleasing  in  our  eyes  than  his  justice. 

“ If  thou  observest  these  rules,  Sancho,  thy  days  shall  be  long,  thy  fame  eternal,  thy 
recompense  full,  and  thy  felicity  unspeakable.  Thou  shalt  marry  thy  children  and  grand- 
children to  thy  heart’s  desire ; they  shall  want  no  titles.  Beloved  of  all  men,  thy  life  shall 
be  peaceable,  thy  death  in  a good  and  venerable  old  age,  and  the  offspring  of  thy  grandchildren, 
with  their  soft,  youthful  hands,  shall  close  thy  eyes. 

“ The  precepts  I have  hitherto  given  thee  regard  the  good  and  ornament  of  thy  mind  ; 
now  give  attention  to  those  directions  that  relate  to  the  adorning  of  thy  body.” 


CHAPTER  XLIII. 

THE  SECOND  PART  OF  DON  QUIXOTE’S  ADVICE  TO  SANCHO  PANZA. 

WHO  would  not  have  taken  Don  Quixote  for  a man  of  extraordinary  wisdom,  and 
as  excellent  morals,  having  heard  him  documentise  his  squire  in  this  manner  ? only, 
as  we  have  often  observed  in  this  history,  the  least  talk  of  knight-errantry  spoiled  all,  and 
made  his  understanding  muddy  ; but  in  everything  else  his  judgment  was  very  clear,  and  his 
apprehension  very  nice,  so  that  every  moment  his  actions  used  to  discredit  his  judgment,  and 
his  judgment  his  actions.  But  in  these  economical  precepts  which  he  gave  Sancho,  he 
showed  himself  master  of  a pleasant  fancy,  and  mingled  his  judgment  and  extravagance  in 
equal  proportions.  Sancho  lent  him  a great  deal  of  attention,  in  hopes  to  register  all  those 
good  counsels  in  his  mind,  and  put  them  in  practice ; not  doubting  but  by  their  means  he 
should  acquit  himself  of  his  duty  like  a man  of  honour. 

“ As  to  the  government  of  thy  person  and  family,”  pursued  Don  Quixote,  “ my  first 
injunction  is  cleanliness.  Pare  thy  nails,  nor  let  them  grow  as  some  do,  whose  folly  persuades 
them  that  long  nails  add  to  the  beauty  of  the  hand  ; till  they  look  more  like  kestrils’  claws 
than  a man’s  nails.  It  is  foul  and  unsightly. 

“ Keep  thy  clothes  tight  about  thee ; for  a slovenly  looseness  is  an  argument  of  a 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

careless  mind  ; unless  such  a negligence,  like  that  of  Julius  C^sar,  be  affected  for  some  cunning 
design. 

o 

“ Prudently  examine  what  thy  income  may  amount  to  in  a year  : and  if  sufficient  to  afford 
thy  servants  liveries,  let  them  be  decent  and  lasting,  rather  than  gaudy  and  for  show  ; and 
for  the  overplus  of  thy  good  husbandry,  bestow  it  on  the  poor  : that  is,  if  thou  canst  keep 
six  footmen,  keep  but  three  ; and  let  what  would  maintain  three  more  be  laid  out  in  charitable 

uses.  By  that  means  thou  wilt  have  attendants  in  heaven,  as  well  as  on  earth,  which  our 

vain-glorious  great  ones,  who  are  strangers  to  this  practice,  are  not  likely  to  have. 

“ Lest  thy  breath  betray  thy  peasantry,  defile  it  not  with  onions  and  garlic. 

“ Walk  with  gravity,  and  speak  with  deliberation,  and  yet  not  as  if  thou  didst  hearken  to 
thy  own  words  ; for  all  affectation  is  a fault. 

“ Eat  little  at  thy  dinner,  and  less  at  supper  ; for  the  stomach  is  the  storehouse,  whence 
health  is  to  be  imparted  to  the  whole  body. 

“ Drink  moderately  ; for  drunkenness  neither  keeps  a secret  nor  observes  a promise. 

“ Be  careful  not  to  chew  on  both  sides  ; that  is,  fill  not  thy  mouth  too  full. 

“In  the  next  place,  Sancho,”  said  the  knight,  “do  not  overlard  your  common  discourse 
with  that  glut  of  proverbs  which  you  mix  in  it  continually  ; for  though  proverbs  are  properly 
concise  and  pithy  sentences,  yet  as  thou  bringest  them  in,  in  such  a huddle,  by  the  head  and 
shoulders,  thou  makest  them  look  like  so  many  absurdities.” 

“Alas!  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “this  is  a disease  that  Heaven  alone  can  cure;  for  I have 
more  proverbs  than  will  fill  a book  ; and  when  I talk,  they  crowd  so  thick  and  fast  to  my 
mouth,  that  they  quarrel  which  shall  get  out  first ; so  that  my  tongue  is  forced  to  let  them 
out  as  fast,  first  come  first  served,  though  nothing  to  my  purpose.  But  henceforwards  I will 
set  a watch  on  my  mouth,  and  let  none  fly  out  but  such  as  shall  befit  the  gravity  of  my 
place.  For  ‘in  a rich  man’s  house,  the  cloth  is  soon  laid:’  ‘Where  there  is  plenty,  the  guests 
cannot  be  empty.’  ‘ A blot’s  no  blot  till  it  is  hit.’  ‘ He  is  safe  who  stands  under  the  bells.’ 
‘You  cannot  eat  your  cake  and  have  your  cake:’  and  ‘Store’s  no  sore.’” 

“ Go  on,  go  on,  friend,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ thread,  tack,  stitch  on,  heap  proverb  upon 
proverb ; out  with  them,  man  ; there  is  nobody  coming.  My  mother  whips  me,  and  I 
whip  the  gig.  I warn  thee  to  forbear  foisting  in  a rope  of  proverbs  everywhere,  and 
thou  blunderest  out  a whole  litany  of  old  saws,  as  much  to  the  purpose  as  the  last  year’s 
snow ! Observe  me,  Sancho,  I condemn  not  the  use  of  proverbs  : but  it  is  most  certain  that 
such  a confusion  and  hodge-podge  of  them  as  thou  throwest  out  and  draggest  in  by  the  hair 
together,  makes  conversation  fulsome  and  poor. 

“ When  thou  dost  ride,  cast  not  thy  body  all  on  the  crupper,  nor  hold  thy  legs  stiff  down, 
and  straddling  from  the  horse’s  belly ; nor  yet  so  loose,  as  if  thou  wert  still  on  Dapple  ; for 
the  air  and  gracefulness  of  sitting  a horse  distinguishes  sometimes  a gentleman  from  a groom. 
Sleep  with  moderation  ; for  he  that  rises  not  with  the  sun  loses  so  much  day.  And  remember 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


649 

this,  Sancho,  that  diligence  is  the  mother  of  good  fortune  : sloth,  on  the  contrary,  never  effected 
anything  that  sprung  from  a good  and  reasonable  desire. 

rl  The  advice  which  I shall  conclude  with  I would  have  thee  to  be  sure  to  fix  in  thy 
memory,  though  it  relate  not  to  the  adorning  of  thy  person  ; for,  I am  persuaded,  it  will  redound 
as  much  to  thy  advantage  as  any  I have  yet  given  thee.  And  this  is  it : — 

“ Never  undertake  to  dispute  nor  decide  any  controversies  concerning  the  pre-eminence  of 
families ; since,  in  the  comparison,  one  must  be  better  than  the  other  : for  he  that  is  lessened 
by  thee  will  hate  thee,  and  the  other  whom  thou  preferrest  will  not  think  himself  obliged  to 
thee. 

“ As  for  thy  dress,  wear  close  breeches  and  hose,  a long  coat,  and  a cloak  a little  longer. 
I do  not  advise  thee  to  wear  wide-knee’d  breeches,  or  trunk  hose,  for  they  become  neither 
swordsmen  nor  men  of  business. 

“ This  is  all  the  advice,  friend  Sancho,  I have  to  give  thee  at  present.  If  thou  takest 
care  to  let  me  hear  from  thee  hereafter,  I shall  give  thee  more,  according  as  thy  occasions 
and  emergencies  require.” 

“ Sir,”  said  Sancho,  “ I see  very  well  that  all  you  have  told  me  is  mighty  good,  whole- 
some, and  to  the  purpose  ; but  what  am  I the  better  if  I cannot  keep  it  in  my  head  ? I grant 
you,  I shall  not  easily  forget  that  about  pairing  my  nails,  and  marrying  again,  if  I should 
have  the  luck  to  bury  my  wife.  But  for  all  that  other  gallimaufry,  and  heap  of  stuff,  I can 
no  more  remember  one  syllable  of  it  than  the  shapes  of  last  year’s  clouds.  Therefore,  let 

me  have  it  in  black  and  white,  I beseech  you.  It  is  true,  I can  neither  write  nor  read,  but 

I will  give  it  to  my  father-confessor,  that  he  may  beat  and  hammer  it  into  my  noddle,  as 
occasion  serves.” 

“O  Heaven!”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “how  scandalous  it  looks  in  a governor  not  to  be  able 
to  write  or  read  ! I must  needs  tell  thee,  Sancho,  that  for  a man  to  be  so  illiterate,  or  to 

be  left-handed,  implies  that  either  his  parents  were  very  poor  and  mean,  or  that  he  was  of 

so  perverse  a nature  he  could  not  receive  the  impressions  of  learning,  nor  anything  that  is 
good.  Poor  soul,  I pity  thee ! this  is  indeed  a very  great  defect.  I would  have  thee  at 
least  learn  to  write  thy  name.” 

“ Oh ! as  for  that,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I can  do  well  enough : I can  set  my  name ; for 
when  I served  several  offices  in  our  parish,  I learned  to  scrawl  a sort  of  letters,  such  as  they 
mark  bundles  of  stuff  with,  which  they  told  me  spelt  my  name.  Besides,  I can  pretend  my 
right  hand  is  lame,  and  so  another  shall  sign  for  me  ; for  there  is  a remedy  for  all  things  but 
death.  And  since  I have  the  power,  I will  do  what  I list ; for,  as  the  saying  is,  ‘ He  whose 
father  is  judge,  goes  safe  to  his  trial.’  And,  as  I am  a governor,  I hope  I am  somewhat 
higher  than  a judge.  ‘ New  lords,  new  laws.’  Ay,  ay,  let  them  come  as  they  will,  and  play 
at  bo-peep.  Let  them  backbite  me  to  my  face,  I will  bite-back  the  biters.  Let  them  come 

for  wool,  and  I will  send  them  home  shorn.  4 Whom  God  loves,  his  house  happy  proves.’ 

82 


650 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


‘The  rich  man’s  follies  pass  for  wise  sayings  in  this  world.’  So  I,  being  rich,  do  you  see,  and  a 
governor,  and  too  free-hearted  into  the  bargain,  as  I intend  to  be,  I shall  have  no  faults  at  all.’ 

“ If  thou  dost  not  discharge  the  part  of  a good  governor,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ thine 
will  be  the  fault,  though  the  shame  and  discredit  will  be  mine.  However,  this  is  my  comfort, 

I have  done  my  duty  in  giving  thee  the  best  and  most  wholesome  advice  I could  : and  so 
Heaven  prosper  and  direct  thee  in  thy  government,  and  disappoint  my  fears  for  thy  turning 
all  things  upside  down  in  that  poor  island.” 

“ Look  you,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ if  you  think  me  not  fit  for  this  government,  I will  think 
no  more  on  it.  I hope  I can  live  plain  Sancho  still,  upon  a luncheon  of  bread,  and  a 
clove  of  garlic,  as  contented  as  Governor  Sancho  upon  capons  and  partridges.  Death  and 
sleep  make  us  all  alike,  rich  and  poor,  high  and  low.  Do  but  call  to  mind  what  first  put 
this  whim  of  government  into  my  noddle  : you  will  find  it  was  your  own  self ; for,  as  for  me, 
I know  no  more  what  belongs  to  islands  and  governors  than  a blind  buzzard.” 

“ These  last  words  of  thine,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  " in  my  opinion,  prove  thee  worthy 
to  govern  a thousand  islands.  Thou  hast  naturally  a good  disposition,  without  which  all 
knowledge  is  insufficient.  Recommend  thyself  to  Divine  Providence,  and  be  sure  never  to 
depart  from  uprightness  of  intention  ; I mean,  have  still  a firm  purpose  and  design  to  be 
thoroughly  informed  in  all  the  business  that  shall  come  before  thee,  and  act  upon  just  grounds, 
for  Heaven  always  favours  good  desires.  And  so  let  us  go  to  dinner,  for  I believe  now  the: 
duke  and  duchess  expect  us.” 


CHAPTER  XLIV. 

HOW  SANCHO  PANZA  WAS  CARRIED  TO  HIS  GOVERNMENT,  AND  OF  THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURE  THAT 

BEFELL  DON  QUIXOTE  IN  THE  CASTLE. 

WE  have  it  from  the  traditional  account  of  this  history,  that  there  is  a manifest  difference 
between  the  translation  and  the  Arabic  in  the  beginning  of  this  chapter;  Cid  Hamet 
having,  in  the  original,  taken  an  occasion  of  criticising  on  himself,  for  undertaking  so  dry  and 
limited  a subject,  which  must  confine  him  to  the  bare  history  of  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho,  and 
debar  him  the  liberty  of  launching  into  episodes  and  digressions,  that  might  be  of  more  weight 
and  entertainment.  To  have  his  fancy,  his  hand,  and  pen  bound  up  to  a single  design,  and 
his  sentiments  confined  to  the  mouths  of  so  few  persons,  he  urged  as  an  insupportable  toil, 
and  of  small  credit  to  the  undertaker ; so  that,  to  avoid  this  inconveniency,  he  has  introduced 
into  the  first  part  some  novels,  as  that  of  “ The  Captive,”  which  were  in  a manner  distinct 
from  the  design,  though  the  rest  of  the  stories  which  he  brought  in  there  fall  naturally  enough 
in  with  Don  Quixote’s  affairs,  and  seem  of  necessity  to  claim  a place  in  the  work.  It  was  his 
opinion,  likewise,  as  he  told  us,  that  the  adventures  of  Don  Quixote  requiring  so  great  a share 
of  the  reader’s  attention,  his  novels  must  expect  but  an  indifferent  reception,  or,  at  most,  but  a 
cursory  view,  not  sufficient  to  discover  their  artificial  contexture  ; which  must  have  been  very 
obvious,  had  they  been  published  by  themselves,  without  the  interludes  of  Don  Quixote’s 


652 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


madness,  or  Sancho’s  impertinence.  He  has,  therefore,  in  this  Second  Part,  avoided  all  distinct 
and  independent  stories,  introducing  only  such  as  have  the  appearance  of  episodes,  yet  flow 
naturally  from  the  design  of  the  story,  and  these  but  seldom,  and  with  as  much  brevity  as  they 
can  be  expressed.  Therefore,  since  he  has  tied  himself  up  to  such  narrow  bounds,  and  confined 
his  understanding  and  parts,  otherwise  capable  of  the  most  copious  subjects,  to  the  pure  matter 
of  this  present  undertaking,  he  begs  it  may  add  a value  to  his  work,  and  that  he  may  be 
commended,  not  so  much  for  what  he  has  written  as  for  what  he  has  forborne  to  write.  And 
then  he  proceeds  in  his  history  as  follows  : — 

After  dinner  Don  Quixote  gave  Sancho,  in  writing,  the  copy  of  his  verbal  instructions, 
ordering  him  to  get  somebody  to  read  them  to  him.  But  the  squire  had  no  sooner  got  them, 
than  he  dropped  the  paper,  which  fell  into  the  duke’s  hands,  who  communicating  the  same  to 
the  duchess,  they  found  a fresh  occasion  of  admiring  the  mixture  of  Don  Quixote’s  good  sense 
and  extravagance  ; and  so,  carrying  on  the  humour,  they  sent  Sancho  that  afternoon,  with  a 
suitable  equipage,  to  the  place  he  was  to  govern,  which,  wherever  it  lay,  was  to  be  an  island 
to  him. 

It  happened  that  the  management  of  this  affair  was  committed  to  a steward  of  the  duke’s, 
a man  of  a facetious  humour,  and  who  had  not  only  wit  to  start  a pleasant  design,  but  discretion 
to  carry  it  on — two  qualifications  which  make  an  agreeable  consort  when  they  meet,  nothing 
being  truly  agreeable  without  good  sense.  He  had  already  personated  the  Countess  Trifaldi 
very  successfully ; and,  with  his  master’s  instructions  in  relation  to  his  behaviour  towards  Sancho, 
could  not  but  discharge  his  trust  to  a wonder.  Now  it  fell  out  that  Sancho  no  sooner  cast  his 
eyes  on  the  steward,  than  he  fancied  he  saw  the  very  face  of  Trifaldi  ; and  turning  to  his 
master,  “ I shall  wonder,  sir,”  quoth  he,  “ if  you  don’t  own  that  this  same  steward  of  the 
duke’s  here  has  the  very  phiz  of  my  Lady  Trifaldi.” 

Don  Quixote  looked  very  earnestly  on  the  steward,  and  having  perused  him  from  top  to 
toe,  “ Sancho,”  said  he,  “ thou  needest  not  give  thyself  any  trouble  to  confirm  this  matter ; I 
see  their  faces  are  the  very  same.  Yet,  for  all  that,  the  steward  and  the  Disconsolate  Lady 
cannot  be  the  same  person,  for  that  would  imply  a very  great  contradiction,  and  might  involve 
us  in  more  abstruse  and  difficult  doubts  than  we  have  conveniency  now  to  discuss  or  examine. 
Believe  me,  friend,  our  devotion  cannot  be  too  earnest,  that  we  may  be  delivered  from  the 
power  of  these  enchantments.” 

“ Indeed,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “you  may  think  I am  in  jest,  but  I heard  him  open  just  now, 
and  I thought  the  very  voice  of  Madam  Trifaldi  sounded  in  my  ears.  But  mum  is  the  word; 
I say  nothing,  though  I shall  watch  his  ways,  to  find  out  whether  I am  right  or  wrong  in  my 
suspicion.” 

“Well,  do  so,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “and  fail  not  to  acquaint  me  with  all  the  discoveries  tho 
canst  make  in  this  affair,  and  other  occurrences  in  thy  government.” 

At  last  Sancho  set  out  with  a numerous  train.  He  was  dressed  like  a man  of  the  long 


rt-  PIS  ATI 


■m  r §4 

mm 

■ LsM 

He  kissed  the  duke  and  duchess’s  hand  at  parting,  and  received  his  master’s  benediction.”—/.  654 


654 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


robe,  and  wore  ever  his  other  clothes  a white  sad-coloured  coat  or  gown,  of  watered  camlet, 
and  a cap  of  the  same  stuff.  He  was  mounted  on  a mule,  and  behind  him,  by  the  duke’s  order, 
was  led  his  Dapple,  bridled  and  saddled  like  a horse  of  state,  in  gaudy  trappings  of  silk  ; which 
so  delighted  Sancho,  that  every  now  and  then  he  turned  his  head  about  to  look  upon  him, 
and  thought  himself  so  happy,  that  now  he  would  not  have  changed  fortunes  with  the  Emperor 

of  Germany.  He  kissed  the  duke  and  duchess’s  hands  at  parting,  and  received  his  master’s 

benediction,  while  the  Don  wept,  and  Sancho  blubbered  abundantly. 

Now,  reader,  let  the  noble  governor  depart  in  peace,  and  speed  him  well.  His  adminis- 
tration in  his  government  may  perhaps  make  you  laugh  to  some  purpose,  when  it  comes  in 
play.  But,  in  the  meantime,  let  us  observe  the  fortune  of  his  master  the  same  night ; for 
though  it  do  not  make  you  laugh  outright,  it  may  chance  to  make  you  draw  in  your  lips, 
and  show  your  teeth  like  a monkey  ; for  it  is  the  property  of  his  adventures  to  create  always 
either  surprise  or  merriment. 

It  is  reported,  then,  that  immediately  upon  Sancho’s  departure,  Don  Quixote  found  the 
want  of  his  presence ; and,  had  it  been  in  his  power,  he  would  have  revoked  his  authority, 
and  deprived  him  of  his  commission.  The  duchess,  perceiving  his  disquiet,  and  desiring  to 
understand  the  cause  of  his  melancholy,  told  him  that  if  it  was  Sancho’s  absence  made  him 
uneasy,  she  had  squires  enough,  and  damsels  in  her  house,  that  should  supply  his  place  in 
any  service  he  would  be  pleased  to  command  them.  “It  is  true,  madam,”  answered  Don 
Quixote,  “ I am  somewhat  concerned  for  the  absence  of  Sancho ; but  there  is  a more  material 
cause  of  my  present  uneasiness,  and  I must  beg  to  be  excused  if,  among  the  many  obligations 
your  grace  is  pleased  to  confer  on  me,  I decline  all  but  the  good  intention  that  has  offered 

them.  All  I have  further  to  crave  is  your  grace’s  permission  to  be  alone  in  my  apartment, 

and  to  be  my  own  servant.” 

“ Enough,  enough,  noble  sir,”  said  the  duchess ; “ I will  give  orders  that  not  so  much 
as  the  buzzing  of  a fly  shall  disturb  you.  May  the  great  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  live  a 
thousand  ages,  and  her  fame  be  diffused  all  over  the  habitable  globe,  since  she  has  merited 
the  love  of  so  valorous  and  loyal  a knight ; and  may  indulgent  Heaven  incline  the  heart  of 
our  governor,  Sancho  Panza,  to  put  a speedy  end  to  his  discipline,  that  the  beauties  of  so 
great  a lady  may  be  restored  to  the  view  of  the  admiring  world ! ” 

“ Madam,”  returned  Don  Quixote,  “ your  grace  has  spoken  like  yourself ; so  excellent  a 
lady  could  utter  nothing  but  what  denotes  the  goodness  and  generosity  of  her  mind.  And 
certainly,  it  will  be  Dulcinea’s  peculiar  happiness  to  have  been  praised  by  you,  for  it  will 
raise  her  character  more  to  have  had  your  grace  for  her  panegyrist,  than  if  the  best  orators 
in  the  world  had  laboured  to  set  it  forth.” 

“ Sir,”  said  the  duchess,  waiving  this  discourse,  “ it  is  supper-time,  and  my  lord  expects 
us.  Come,  then,  let  us  to  supper,  that  you  may  go  to  bed  betimes,  for  you  must  needs  be 
weary  still  with  the  long  journey  vou  took  to  Candaya  yesterday.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


655 

“Indeed,  madam,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “I  feel  no  manner  of  weariness;  for  I can 
safely  swear  to  your  grace,  that  I never  rode  an  easier  beast,  nor  a better  goer,  than  Clavileno 
For  my  part,  I cannot  imagine  what  could  induce  Malambruno  to  part  with  so  swift  and  gentle 
a horse,  and  to  burn  him  too,  in  such  a manner.” 

“ It  is  to  be  supposed,”  said  the  duchess,  “ that  being  sorry  for  the  harm  he  had  done,, 
not  only  to  the  Countess  Trifaldi  and  her  attendants,  but  to  many  others,  and  repenting  of  the 
bad  deeds  which,  as  a wizard  and  a necromancer,  he  doubtless  had  committed,  he  had  a mind 
to  destroy  all  the  instruments  of  his  wicked  profession,  and  accordingly  he  burned  Clavileno 
as  the  chief  of  them,  that  engine  having  served  him  to  rove  all  over  the  world  ; or  perhaps 
he  did  not  think  any  man  worthy  of  bestriding  him  after  the  great  Don  Quixote,  and  so,  with 
his  destruction,  and  the  inscription  which  he  has  caused  to  be  set  up,  he  has  eternised  your 
valour.” 

Don  Quixote  returned  his  thanks  to  the  duchess,  and  after  supper  retired  to  his  chamber. 
He  shut  the  door  of  his  chamber  after  him,  and  undressed  himself  by  the  light  of  two 
'.vax  candles.  But,  oh  ! the  misfortune  that  befell  him,  unworthy  of  such  a person.  As  he  was 
straining  to  put  off  his  hose,  there  fell  about  four-and-twenty  stitches  of  one  of  his  stockings, 
which  made  it  look  like  a lattice  window.  The  good  knight  was  extremely  afflicted,  and 
would  have  given  an  ounce  of  silver  for  a drachm  of  green  silk ; green  silk,  I say,  because  his 
stockings  were  green. 

Here  Benengeli  could  not  forbear  exclaiming,  “Oh,  poverty!  poverty!  what  could  induce 
that  great  Cordova  poet  to  call  thee  a holy,  thankless  gift ! Even  I,  that  am  a Moor,  have 
learned  by  the  converse  I have  had  with  Christians,  that  holiness  consists  in  charity,  in  humility, 
in  faith,  in  obedience,  and  in  poverty.  But  sure,  he  who  can  be  contented  when  poor,  had  need 
to  be  strengthened  by  God’s  peculiar  grace,  unless  the  poverty  which  is  included  among  these 
virtues  be  only  that  poorness  in  spirit  which  teaches  us  to  use  the  things  of  this  world  as  if 
we  had  them  not.  But  thou,  second  poverty,  fatal  indigence,  of  which  I am  now  speaking,  why 
dost  thou  intrude  upon  gentlemen,  and  affect  well-born  souls  more  than  other  people  ? Why 
dost  thou  reduce  them  to  cobble  their  shoes,  and  wear  some  silk,  some  hair,  and  some  glass 
buttons  on  the  same  tattered  waistcoat,  as  if  it  were  only  to  betray  variety  of  wretchedness  ? 
Why  must  their  ruffs  be  of  such  a dismal  hue,  in  rags,  dirty,  rumpled,  and  ill-starched  ? (and 
by  this  you  may  see  how  ancient  is  the  use  of  starch  and  ruffs).  How  miserable  is  a poor 
gentleman,  who,  to  keep  up  his  honour,  starves  his  person,  fares  sorrily,  or  fasts  unseen,  within 
his  solitary,  narrow  apartment;  then  putting  the  best  face  he  can  upon  the  matter,  comes  out 
picking  his  teeth,  though  it  is  but  an  honourable  hypocrisy,  and  though  he  has  eaten  nothing 
that  requires  that  nice  exercise!  Unhappy  he,  whose  honour  is  in  continual  alarm,  who  thinks 
that,  at  a mile’s  distance,  every  one  discovers  the  patch  in  his  shoe,  the  sweat  of  his  forehead 
soaked  through  his  old  rustv  hat,  the  bareness  of  his  clothes,  and  the  very  hunger  of  his 
famished  stomach!” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


65^ 

All  these  melancholy  reflections  were  renewed  in  Don  Quixote’s  mind  by  the  rent  in  his 
stocking.  However,  for  his  consolation,  he  bethought  himself  that  Sancho  had  left  him  a pair 
of  light  boots,  which  he  designed  to  put  on  the  next  day. 

In  short,  to  bed  he  went,  with  a pensive,  heavy  mind;  the  thought  of  Sancho’s  absence, 
and  the  irreparable  damage  that  his  stocking  had  received,  made  him  uneasy ; he  would  have 
darned  it,  though  it  had  been  with  silk  of  another  colour,  one  of  the  greatest  tokens  of  want 
a poor  gentleman  can  show  during  the  course  of  his  tedious  misery.  At  last  he  put  out  the 
lights,  but  it  was  sultry  hot,  and  he  could  not  compose  himself  to  rest.  Getting  up,  therefore, 
he  opened  a little  shutter  of  a barred  window,  that  looked  into  a fine  garden,  and  was  presently 
sensible  that  some  people  were  walking  and  talking  there.  He  listened,  and  as  they  raised 
their  voices,  he  easily  overheard  their  discourse. 

“ No  more,  dear  Emerenia,”  said  one  to  the  other.  “ Do  not  press  me  to  sing;  you  know 

that  from  the  first  moment  this  stranger  came  to  the  castle,  and  my  unhappy  eyes  gazed  on 

him,  I have  been  too  conversant  with  tears  and  sorrow  to  sing  or  relish  songs.  Alas  ! all 
music  jars  when  the  soul  is  out  of  tune.  Besides,  you  know  the  least  thing  wakens  my  lady, 
and  I would  not  for  the  world  she  should  find  us  here.  But,  grant  she  might  not  wake, 
what  will  my  singing  signify,  if  this  new  /Eneas,  who  is  come  to  our  habitation  to  make 
me  wretched,  should  be  asleep,  and  not  hear  the  sound  of  my  complaint?” 

“ Pray,  my  dear  Altisidora,”  said  the  other,  “ do  not  make  yourself  uneasy  with  those 
thoughts  ; for,  without  doubt,  the  duchess  is  fast  asleep,  and  everybody  in  the  house  but  we 

and  the  lord  of  thy  desires.  He  is  certainly  awake;  I heard  him  open  his  window  just  now; 

then  sing,  my  poor  grieving  creature,  sing  and  join  the  melting  music  of  the  lute  to  the  soft 
accents  of  thy  voice.  If  my  lady  happen  to  hear  us,  we  will  pretend  we  came  out  for  a little 
air.  The  heat  within  doors  will  be  our  excuse.” 

“ Alas  ! my  dear,”  replied  Altisidora,  “ it  is  not  that  frightens  me  most : I would  not  have 
my  song  betray  my  thoughts,  for  those  that  do  not  know  the  mighty  force  of  love  will  be 
apt  to  take  me  for  a light  and  indiscreet  creature ; but  yet,  since  it  must  be  so,  I will  venture  : 
better  shame  on  the  face,  than  sorrow  in  the  heart.” 

This  said,  she  began  to  touch  her  lute  so  sweetly,  that  Don  Quixote  was  ravished.  At 
the  same  time,  an  infinite  number  of  adventures  of  this  nature,  such  as  he  had  read  of  in  his 
idle  books  of  knight-errantry ; windows,  grates,  gardens,  serenades,  amorous  meetings,  parleys, 
and  fopperies,  all  crowded  into  his  imagination,  and  he  presently  fancied  that  one  of  the 
duchess’s  damsels  was  fallen  in  love  with  him,  and  struggled  with  her  modesty  to  conceal  her 
passion.  He  began  to  be  apprehensive  of  the  danger  to  which  his  fidelity  was  exposed,  but 
yet  firmly  determined  to  withstand  the  powerful  allurement  ; and  so,  recommending  himself, 
with  a great  deal  of  fervency,  to  his  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  he  resolved  to  hear  the  music; 
and,  to  let  the  serenading  ladies  know  he  was  awake,  he  feigned  a kind  of  sneeze,  which  did 
not  a little  please  them,  for  it  was  the  only  thing  they  wanted,  to  be  assured  their  jest  vas 


“ Here  the  courting  damsel  ended  her  song.”— f - 658- 


6-8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


not  lost.  With  that,  Altisidora,  having  tuned  her  lute  afresh,  after  a flourish,  began  the  following 
song : — 

THE  MOCK  SERENADE. 


Wake,  Sir  Knight,  now  love’s  invading, 
Sleep  in  holland  sheets  no  more  ; 

When  a nymph  is  serenading, 

’Tis  an  arrant  shame  to  snore. 

Hear  a damsel,  tall  and  tender, 
Mourning  in  most  rueful  guise, 

With  heart  almost  burn’d  to  cinder, 

By  the  sunbeams  of  thy  eyes. 

To  free  damsels  from  disaster 
Is,  they  say,  your  daily  care  ; 

Can  you,  then,  deny  a plaister 
To  a wounded  virgin  here  ? 

Tell  me,  doughty  youth,  who  cursed  thee 
With  such  humours  and  ill-luck  ? 

Was ’t  some  sullen  bear  dry-nursed  thee, 
Or  she-dragon  gave  thee  suck  ? 

Dulcinea,  that  virago, 

Well  may  brag  of  such  a kid  ; 

Now  her  name  is  up,  and  may  go 
From  Toledo  to  Madrid. 

Would  she  but  her  prize  surrender, 
(Judge  how  on  thy  face  I dote !) 

In  exchange  I’d  gladly  send  her 
My  best  gown  and  petticoat. 

Happy  I,  would  fortune  doom  thee 
But  to  have  me  near  thy  bed, 

Stroke  thee,  pat  thee,  curry-comb  thee, 
And  hunt  o’er  thy  solid  head  ! 

But  I ask  too  much  sincerely, 

And  I doubt  I ne’er  must  do ’t ; 


I’d  but  kiss  thy  toe,  and  fairly 
Get  the  length  thus  of  thy  foot. 

How  I’d  rig  thee,  and  what  riches 
Should  be  heap’d  upon  thy  bones  ; 

Caps  and  socks,  and  cloaks  and  breeches, 
Matchless  pearls,  and  precious  stones. 

Do  not  from  above,  like  Nero, 

See  me  burn,  and  slight  my  woe  1 

But,  to  quench  my  fires,  my  hero, 

Cast  a pitying  eye  below. 

I’m  a virgin-pullet,  truly, 

One  more  tender  ne’er  was  seen, 

A mere  chicken,  fledg’d  but  newly  ; 

Hang  me  if  I’m  yet  fifteen. 

Wind  and  limb,  all’s  tight  about  me, 

My  hair  dangles  to  my  feet ; 

I am  straight,  too  ; if  you  doubt  me, 

Trust  your  eyes,  come  down  and  see ’t. 

I’ve  a bob-nose  has  no  fellow, 

And  a sparrow’s  mouth  as  rare  ; 

Teeth  like  topazes,  all  yellow, 

Yet  I’m  deem’d  a beauty  here. 

You  know  what  a rare  musician 
(If  you’d  hearken)  courts  your  choice  ; 

I can  say  my  disposition 
Is  as  taking  as  my  voice. 

These,  and  such  like  charms,  I’ve  plenty; 
I’m  a damsel  of  this  place  ; 

Let  Altisidora  tempt  ye, 

Or  she’s  in  a woful  case. 


Here  the  courting  damsel  ended  her  song,  and  the  courted  knight  began  his  expostula- 
tion. “ Why,”  said  he,  with  a sigh  heaved  from  the  bottom  of  his  heart,  “ why  must  I be  so 
unhappy  a knight,  that  no  damsel  can  gaze  on  me  without  falling  in  love  ? Why  must  the 
peerless  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  be  so  unfortunate  as  not  to  be  permitted  the  single  enjoyment 
of  my  transcendant  fidelity  ? Queens,  why  do  you  envy  her  ? Empresses,  why  do  you  per- 
secute her  ? Damsels  of  fifteen,  why  do  you  attempt  to  deprive  her  of  her  right  ? Leave, 
oh,  leave  the  unfortunate  fair ! Let  her  triumph,  glory,  and  rejoice  in  the  quiet  possession 
of  the  heart  which  love  has  allotted  her,  and  the  absolute  sway  which  she  bears  over  my 
yielding  soul.  Away,  unwelcome  crowd  of  loving  impertinents ; Dulcinea  alone  can  soften  my 
manly  temper,  and  mould  me  as  she  pleases.  For  her  I am  all  sweetness;  for  you  I am 
bitterness  itself.  There  is  to  me  no  beauty,  no  prudence,  no  modesty,  no  gaiety,  no  nobility 
among  your  sex,  but  in  Dulcinea  alone.  All  other  women  seem  to  be  deformed,  silly,  wanton, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


659 

and  base  born,  when  compared  with  her.  Nature  brought  me  forth  only  that  I should  be 
devoted  to  her  service.  Let  Altisidora  weep  or  sing,  let  the  lady  despair  on  whose  account 
I have  received  so  many  blows  in  the  disastrous  castle  of  the  enchanted  Moor,  still  I am 
Dulcinea’s,  and  hers  alone,  dead  or  alive  ; dutiful,  unspotted,  and  unchanged,  in  spite  of  all  the 
necromantic  powers  in  the  world.  This  said,  he  hastily  clapped  down  the  window,  and  flung 
himself  into  his  bed  with  as  high  an  indignation  as  if  he  had  received  some  great  affront. 
There  let  us  leave  him  a while,  in  regard  the  great  Sancho  Panza  calls  upon  us  to  see  him 
commence  his  famous  government. 


CHAPTER  XLV. 


HOW  THE  GREAT  SANCHO  PANZA  TOOK  POSSESSION  OF  HIS  ISLAND,  AND  IN  WHAT  MANNER  HE  BEGAN 

TO  GOVERN. 

OH,  thou  perpetual  surveyor  of  the  antipodes,  bright  luminary  of  the  world,  and  eye  of 
heaven ! sweet  fermenter  of  liquids  ! here  Timbrius  called,  there  Phoebus ; in  one  place 
an  archer,  in  another  a physician  ; parent  of  poesy  and  inventor  of  music  ; perpetual  mover  of 
the  universe,  who,  though  thou  seemest  sometimes  to  set,  art  always  rising  ! oh,  sun,  on  thee 
I call  for  help ! Inspire  me,  I beseech  thee ! Warm  and  illumine  my  gloomy  imagination, 
that  my  narration  may  keep  pace  with  the  great  Sancho  Panza’s  actions  through  his  govern- 
ment; for  without  thy  powerful  influence,  I feel  myself  benumbed,  dispirited,  and  confused. 

Now  I proceed. 

Sancho,  with  all  his  attendants,  came  to  a town  that  had  about  a thousand  inhabitants, 
and  was  one  of  the  best  where  the  duke  had  any  power.  They  gave  him  to  understand  that 
the  name  of  the  place  was  the  island  of  Barataria,  either  because  the  town  was  called  Bara- 
taria,  or  because  the  government  cost  him  so  cheap.  As  soon  as  he  came  to  the  gates  (for  it 
was  walled)  the  chief  officers  and  inhabitants,  in  their  formalities,  came  out  to  receive  him, 


GOVERNOR  SANCHO  PANZA  ADMINISTERING  JUSTICE. — ■/.  662. 


662 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


the  bells  rung,  and  all  the  people  gave  demonstrations  of  their  joy.  The  new  governor  was 
then  carried  in  pomp  to  the  great  church,  to  give  Heaven  thanks  ; and,  after  some  ridiculous 
ceremonies,  they  delivered  him  the  keys  of  the  gates,  and  received  him  as  perpetual  governor 
of  the  island  of  Barataria,  In  the  meantime,  the  garb,  the  port,  the  huge  beard,  and  the  short 
and  thick  shape  of  the  new  governor,  made  every  one  who  knew  nothing  of  the  jest  wonder , 
and  even  those  who  were  privy  to  the  plot,  who  were  many,  were  not  a little  surprised. 

In  short,  from  the  church  they  carried  him  to  the  court  of  justice ; where,  when  they  had 
placed  him  in  his  seat,  “My  lord  governor,”  said  the  duke’s  steward,  “it  is  an  ancient  custom 
here,  that  he  who  takes  possession  of  this  famous  island  must  answer  to  some  intricate  question ; 
and,  by  the  return  he  makes,  the  people  feel  the  pulse  of  his  understanding,  and,  by  ant 
estimate  of  his  abilities,  judge  whether  they  ought  to  rejoice  or  to  be  sorry  for  his  coming.” 

All  the  while  the  steward  was  speaking,  Sancho  was  staring  on  an  inscription  in  large 
characters  on  the  wall  over  against  his  seat ; and,  as  he  could  not  read,  he  asked  what  was  the 
meaning  of  that  which  he  saw  painted  there  upon  the  wall. 

“ Sir,”  said  they,  “ it  is  an  account  of  the  day  when  your  lordship  took  possession  of  this 
island ; and  the  inscription  runs  thus  : ‘ This  day,  being  such  a day  of  this  month,  in  such  a 
year,  the  Lord  Don  Sancho  Panza  took  possession  of  this  island,  which  may  he  long  enjoy.’  ” 
“ And  who  is  he,”  asked  Sancho,  “ whom  they  call  Don  Sancho  Panza  ? ” 

“Your  lordship,”  answered  the  steward;  “ for  we  know  of  no  other  Panza  in  this  island.” 
“Well,  friend,”  said  Sancho,  “pray  take  notice  that  Don  does  not  belong  to  me,  nor  was 
it  borne  by  any  of  my  family  before  me.  Plain  Sancho  Panza  is  my  name ; my  father  was 
called  Sancho,  my  grandfather  Sancho,  and  all  of  us  have  been  Panzas,  without  any  Don  or 
Donna  added  to  our  name.  Now  do  I already  guess  your  Dons  are  as  thick  as  stones  in  this 
island.  But  it  is  enough  that  Heaven  knows  my  meaning.  If  my  government  happens  to  last 
but  four  days  to  an  end,  it  shall  go  hard  but  I will  clear  the  island  of  those  swarms  of  Dons 
that  must  needs  be  as  troublesome  as  so  many  flesh-flies.  Come,  now  for  your  question,  good 
Mr.  Steward,  and  I will  answer  it  as  well  as  I can,  whether  the  town  be  sorry  or  pleased.” 

At  the  same  instant  two  men  came  into  the  court,  the  one  dressed  like  a country  fellow, 
the  other  like  a tailor,  with  a pair  of  shears  in  his  hand.  “ If  it  please  you,  my  lord,”  cried 
the  tailor,  “ I and  this  farmer  here  are  come  before  your  worship.  This  honest  man  came 
to  my  shop  yesterday,  for,  saving  your  presence,  I am  a tailor ; so,  my  lord,  he  showed  me 
a piece  of  cloth.  ‘ Sir,’  quoth  he,  ‘ is  there  enough  of  this  to  make  a cap  ?’  Whereupon  I 
measured  the  stuff,  and  answered  him,  ‘ Yes,  if  it  like  your  worship.’  Now,  as  I imagined, 
do  you  see,  he  could  not  but  imagine  (and  perhaps  he  imagined  right  enough)  that  I had  a 
mind  to  cabbage  some  of  his  cloth,  judging  hard  of  us  honest  tailors.  ‘ Pr’ythee,’  quoth  he, 
‘look  there  be  not  enough  for  two  caps.’  Now  I smelt  him  out,  and  told  him  there  was. 
Whereupon  the  old  knave  (if  it  like  your  worship),  going  on  to  the  same  tune,  bid  me  look 
again,  and  see  whether  it  would  not  make  three  ; and  at  last,  if  it  would  not  make  five.  I 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


663 


was  resolved  to  humour  my  customer,  and  said  it  might ; so  we  struck  a bargain.  Just  now 

the  man  is  come  for  his  caps,  which  I gave  him,  but  when  I asked  him  for  my  money,  he 

will  have  me  give  him  his  cloth  again,  or  pay  him  for  it.” 

“ Is  this  true,  honest  man  ?”  said  Sancho  to  the  farmer. 

“ Yes,  if  it  please  you,”  answered  the  fellow ; “ but  pray,  let  him  show  the  five  caps.” 

“ With  all  my  heart,”  cried  the  tailor ; and  with  that,  pulling  his  hand  from  under  his 
cloak,  he  held  up  five  little  tiny  caps,  hanging  upon  his  four  fingers  and  thumb,  as  upon  so 

many  pins.  “ There,”  quoth  he,  “ you  see  the  five  caps  this  good  gaffer  asks  for ; and  may 

I never  whip  a stitch  more  if  I have  wronged  him  of  the  least  snip  of  his  cloth.” 

The  sight  of  the  caps,  and  the  oddness  of  the  cause,  set  the  whole  court  a-laughing. 
Only  Sancho  sat  gravely  considering  a while,  and  then,  “ Methinks,”  said  he,  “ this  suit  here 
needs  not  be  long  depending,  but  may  be  decided  without  any  more  ado,  with  a great  deal 
of  equity  ; and  therefore  the  judgment  of  the  court  is,  that  the  tailor  shall  lose  his  making, 
and  the  countryman  his  cloth,  and  that  the  caps  be  given  to  the  poor  prisoners,  and  so  let 
there  be  an  end  of  the  business.” 

If  this  sentence  provoked  the  laughter  of  the  whole  court,  the  next  no  less  raised  their 
admiration.  For  after  the  governor’s  order  was  executed,  two  old  men  appeared  before  him, 
one  of  them  with  a large  cane  in  his  hand,  which  he  used  as  a staff.  “ My  lord,”  said  the 
other,  who  had  none,  “ some  time  ago  I lent  this  man  ten  gold  crowns  to  do  him  a kindness, 
which  money  he  was  to  repay  me  on  demand.  I did  not  ask  him  for  it  again  in  a good  while, 
lest  it  should  prove  a greater  inconveniency  to  him  to  repay  me  than  he  laboured  under  when 
he  borrowed  it.  However,  perceiving  that  he  took  no  care  to  pay  me,  I have  asked  him  for 
my  due ; nay,  I have  been  forced  to  dun  him  hard  for  it.  But  still  he  did  not  only  refuse 
to  pay  me  again,  but  denied  he  owed  me  anything,  and  said,  that  if  I lent  him  so  much 
money,  he  certainly  returned  it.  Now,  because  I have  no  witnesses  of  the  loan,  nor  he  of 
the  pretended  payment,  I beseech  your  lordship  to  put  him  to  his  oath,  and  if  he  will  swear 
he  has  paid  me,  I will  freely  forgive  him  before  God  and  the  world.” 

“What  say  you  to  this,  old  gentleman  with  the  staff?”  asked  Sancho. 

“ Sir,”  answered  the  old  man,  “ I own  he  lent  me  the  gold  ; and  since  he  requires  my  oath. 
I beg  you  will  be  pleased  to  hold  down  your  rod  of  justice,  that  I may  swear  upon  it  how  I 
have  honestly  and  truly  returned  him  his  money.” 

Thereupon  the  governor  held  down  his  rod,  and  in  the  meantime  the  defendant  gave  his 
cane  to  the  plaintiff  to  hold,  as  if  it  hindered  him,  while  he  was  to  make  a cross  and  swear 
over  the  judge’s  rod.  This  done,  he  declared  that  it  was  true  the  other  had  lent  him  ten 
crowns,  but  that  he  had  really  returned  him  the  same  sum  into  his  own  hands  ; and  that 
because  he  supposed  the  plaintiff  had  forgotten  it,  he  was  continually  asking  him  for  it.  The 
great  governor  hearing  this,  asked  the  creditor  what  he  had  to  reply.  He  made  answer,  that 
since  his  adversary  had  sworn  it,  he  was  satisfied,  for  he  believed  him  to  be  a better  Christian 


664 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


than  offer  to  forswear  himself,  and  that  perhaps  he  had  forgotten  he  had  been  repaid.  Then 
the  defendant  took  his  cane  again,  and  having  made  a low  obeisance  to  the  judge,  was  immediately 
leaving  the  court,  which,  when  Sancho  perceived,  reflecting  on  the  passage  of  the  cane,  and 
admiring  the  creditor’s  patience,  after  he  had  studied  a while  with  his  head  leaning  over  his 
stomach,  and  his  fore-finger  on  his  nose,  on  a sudden  he  ordered  the  old  man  with  the  staff 
to  be  called  back.  When  he  was  returned,  “ Honest  man,”  said  Sancho,  “ let  me  see  that  cane 
a little,  I have  a use  for  it.” 

“ With  all  my  heart,"  answered  the  other ; “ sir,  here  it  is.” 

And  with  that  he  gave  it  him.  Sancho  took  it,  and  giving  it  to  the  other  old  man, 
“ There,”  said  he,  “go  your  ways,  and  Heaven  be  with  you,  for  now  you  are  paid.” 

“How  so,  my  lord?”  cried  the  old  man;  “do  you  judge  this  cane  to  be  worth  ten  gold 
crowns  ? ” 

“ Certainly,”  said  the  governor,  “ or  else  I am  the  greatest  dunce  in  the  world.  And  now 
you  shall  see  whether  I have  not  a head-piece  fit  to  govern  a whole  kingdom  upon  a shift.” 

This  said,  he  ordered  the  cane  to  be  broken  in  open  court,  which  was  no  sooner  done, 
than  out  dropped  the  ten  crowns.  All  the  spectators  were  amazed,  and  began  to  look  on  their 
governor  as  a second  Solomon.  They  asked  him  how  he  could  conjecture  that  the  ten  crowns 
were  in  the  cane.  He  told  them  that,  having  observed  how  the  defendant  gave  it  to  the 
plaintiff  to  hold  while  he  took  his  oath,  and  then  swore  he  had  truly  returned  him  the  money 
into  his  own  hands,  after  which  he  took  his  cane  again  from  the  plaintiff ; this  considered,  it 
came  into  his  head  that  the  money  was  lodged  within  the  reed ; from  whence  may  be  learned, 
that  though  sometimes  those  that  govern  are  destitute  of  sense,  yet  it  often  pleases  God  to 
direct  them  in  their  judgment.  Besides,  he  had  heard  the  curate  of  his  parish  tell  of  such 
another  business,  and  he  had  so  special  a memory,  that  were  it  not  that  he  was  so  unlucky 
as  to  forget  all  he  had  a mind  to  remember,  there  could  not  have  been  a better  in  the  whole 
island.  At  last  the  two  old  men  went  away,  the  one  to  his  satisfaction,  the  other  with  much 
shame  and  disgrace ; and  the  beholders  were  astonished  ; insomuch,  that  the  person  who  was 
commissioned  to  register  Sancho’s  words  and  actions,  and  observe  his  behaviour,  was  not  able 
to  determine  whether  he  should  not  give  him  the  character  of  a wise  man,  instead  of  that  of  a 
fool,  which  he  had  been  thought  to  deserve. 


CHAPTER  XLVI. 

OF  THE  DREADFUL  ALARM  GIVEN  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  BY  THE  BELLS  AND  CATS,  DURING  THE  COURSE  OF 

ALTISIDORA’S  AMOUR. 

WE  left  the  great  Don  Quixote  profoundly  buried  in  the  thoughts  into  which  the 
enamoured  Altisidora’s  serenade  had  plunged  him.  He  threw  himself  into  his  bed, 
but  the  cares  and  anxieties  which  he  brought  thither  with  him,  like  so  many  insects,  allowed 
him  no  repose,  and  the  misfortune  of  his  torn  stocking  added  to  his  affliction.  But  as  time  is 
swift,  and  no  bolts  nor  chains  can  bar  his  rapid  progress,  posting  away  on  the  wings  of  the 
hours,  the  morning  came  on  apace.  At  the  return  of  light,  Don  Quixote,  more  early  than 

the  sun,  forsook  his  downy  bed,  put  on  his  chamois  apparel,  and,  drawing  on  his  walking 

boots,  concealed  in  one  of  them  the  disaster  of  his  hose.  He  threw  his  scarlet  cloak  over 

his  shoulder,  and  clapped  on  his  valiant  head  his  cap  of  green  velvet  edged  with  silver  lace. 

Over  his  right  shoulder  he  hung  his  belt,  the  sustainer  of  his  trusty  executing  sword.  Round 
his  wrist  he  wore  the  rosary,  which  he  always  carried  about  him  ; and  thus  accoutred,  with  a 
great  deal  of  state  and  majesty,  he  moved  towards  the  ante-chamber,  where  the  duke  and 
duchess  were  ready  dressed,  and,  in  a manner,  expecting  his  coming.  As  he  went  through 
a gallery,  he  met  Altisidora  and  her  companion,  who  waited  for  him  in  the  passage ; and 
no  sooner  did  Altisidora  espy  him,  than  she  dissembled  a swooning  fit,  and  immediately  dropped 
into  the  arms  of  her  friend,  who  presently  began  to  unlace  her  dress ; which  Don  Quixote 
perceiving,  he  approached,  and,  turning  to  the  damsel,  “ I know  the  meaning  of  all  this,”  said 
he,  “ and  whence  these  accidents  proceed.” 

“ You  know  more  than  I do,”  answered  the  assisting  damsel ; “ but  this  I am  sure  of,  that 
hitherto  there  is  not  a damsel  in  this  house  that  has  enjoyed  her  health  better  than  Altisidora. 
I never  knew  her  make  the  least  complaint  before.  A vengeance  seize  all  the  knights-errant 
in  the  world,  if  they  are  all  so  ungrateful.  Pray,  my  Lord  Don  Quixote,  retire,  for  this  poor 
young  creature  will  not  come  to  herself  while  you  are  by.” 


84 


666 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ Madam,"  answered  the  knight,  “ I beg  that  a lute  may  be  left  in  my  chamber  this  evening, 
that  I may  assuage  this  lady’s  grief  as  well  as  I can  ; for  in  the  beginning  of  an  amour,  a speedy 
and  free  discovery  of  our  aversion  or  pre-engagement  is  the  most  effectual  cure.” 

This  said,  he  left  them,  that  he  might  not  be  found  alone  with  them  by  those  that  might 
happen  to  go  by.  He  was  scarce  gone  when  Altisidora’s  counterfeited  fit  was  over ; and, 
turning  to  her  companion,  “ By  all  means,”  said  she,  “ let  him  have  a lute  ; for  without  doubt 
the  knight  has  a mind  to  give  us  some  music,  and  we  shall  have  sport  enough.” 

Then  they  went  and  acquainted  the  duchess  with  their  proceeding,  and  Don  Quixote‘s 
desiring  a lute  ; whereupon,  being  overjoyed  at  the  occasion,  she  plotted  with  the  duke  and 
her  woman  a new  contrivance,  to  have  a little  harmless  sport  with  the  Don.  After  this  they 
awaited,  with  a pleasing  impatience,  the  return  of  night,  which  stole  upon  them  as  fast  as 
had  done  the  day,  which  the  duke  and  duchess  passed  in  agreeable  converse  with  Don  Quixote. 
The  same  day  she  dispatched  a trusty  page  of  hers,  who  had  personated  Dulcinea  in  the  wood, 
to  Teresa  Panza,  with  her  husband’s  letter,  and  the  bundle  of  clothes  which  he  had  left  behind 
him,  charging  him  to  bring  her  back  a faithful  account  of  every  particular  between  them. 

At  last,  it  being  eleven  o’clock  at  night,  Don  Quixote  retired  to  his  apartment,  and  finding 
a lute  there,  he  tuned  it,  opened  the  window,  and  perceiving  there  was  somebody  walking  in 
the  garden,  he  ran  over  the  strings  of  the  instrument ; and  having  tuned  it  again  as  nicely 
as  he  could,  he  coughed  and  cleared  his  throat,  and  then,  with  a voice  somewhat  hoarse,  yet 
not  unmusical,  he  sung  the  following  song,  which  he  had  composed  himself  that  very  day  : — 


THE  ADVICE. 


Lcve,  a strong  designing  foe, 

Careless  hearts  with  ease  deceives  ; 

Can  thy  breast  resist  his  blow, 

Which  your  sloth  unguarded  leaves? 

If  you’re  idle,  you're  destroy'd, 

All  his  art  on  you  he  tries  ; 

But  be  watchful  and  employ’d, 

Straight  the  baffled  tempter  flies. 

Maids  for  modest  grace  admired. 

If  they  would  their  fortunes  raise, 

Must  in  silence  live  retired  ; 

’Tis  their  virtue  speaks  their  praise. 

Prudent  men  in  this  agree, 

Whether  arms  or  courts  they  use  ; 

They  may  trifle  with  the  free, 

But  for  wives  the  virtuous  choose. 


Wanton  loves,  which,  in  their  way, 
Roving  travellers  put  on, 

In  the  morn  are  fresh  and  gay, 

In  the  evening  cold  and  gone. 

Loves,  that  come  with  eager  haste, 
Still  with  equal  haste  depart  ; 

For  an  image  ill  imprest 

Soon  is  vanish’d  from  the  heart. 

On  a picture  fair  and  true 
Who  would  paint  another  face  ? 

Sure  no  beauty  can  subdue, 

While  a greater  holds  the  place. 

The  divine  Tobosan  fair, 

Dulcinea,  claims  me  whole  ; 

Nothing  can  her  image  tear; 

’Tis  one  substance  with  my  soul. 


Then  let  fortune  smile  or  frown. 
Nothing  shall  my  faith  remove  ; 
Constant  truth,  the  lover's  crown, 
Can  work  miracles  in  love. 


No  sooner  had  Don  Quixote  made  an  end  of  his  song,  to  which  the  duke:  duchess,  Altisidora. 


i’ray,  my  Lord  Don  Quixote,  retire,  for  this  poor  youny  creature  will  not  come  to  herself  while  you  are  by.”—/.  66$. 


668 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


and  almost  all  the  people  in  the  castle,  listened  all  the  while,  than  on  a sudden,  from  an  open 
gallery  that  was  directly  over  the  knight’s  window,  they  let  down  a rope,  with  at  least  a hundred 
little  tinkling  bells  hanging  about  it.  After  that  came  down  a great  number  of  cats,  poured 
out  of  a huge  sack,  all  of  them  with  smaller  bells  tied  to  their  tails.  The  jangling  of  the 
bells,  and  the  squalling  of  the  cats,  made  such  a dismal  noise,  that  the  very  contrivers  of  the 
jest  themselves  were  scared  for  a time,  and  Don  Quixote  was  strangely  surprised,  and 
quite  dismayed.  At  the  same  time,  as  ill  luck  would  have  it,  two  or  three  frighted  cats  leaped 
in  through  the  bars  of  his  chamber  window,  and,  running  up  and  down  the  room  like  so  many 
evil  spirits,  one  would  have  thought  a whole  legion  of  them  had  been  flying  about  the  chamber. 
They  put  out  the  candles  that  stood  lighted  there,  and  endeavoured  to  get  out.  Meanwhile 
the  rope,  with  the  bigger  bells  about  it,  was  pulled  up  and  down,  and  those  who  knew  nothing 
of  the  contrivance  were  greatly  surprised.  At  last,  Don  Quixote,  recovering  from  his  astonish- 
ment, drew  his  sword,  and  fenced  and  laid  about  him  at  the  window,  crying  aloud,  “ Avaunt, 
ye  wicked  enchanters  ! hence,  scoundrels  ! for  I am  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  and  all  your 
devices  cannot  work  their  ends  against  me.”  And  then,  running  after  the  cats  that  frisked 
about  the  room,  he  began  to  thrust  and  cut  at  them  furiously,  while  they  strove  to  get  out. 
At  last  they  made  their  escape  at  the  window,  all  but  one  of  them,  who,  finding  himself  hard 
put  to  it,  flew  in  his  face,  and  laying  hold  on  his  nose  with  his  claws  and  teeth,  put  him  to 
such  pain,  that  the  Don  began  to  roar  out  as  loud  as  he  could.  Thereupon  the  duke  and 
the  duchess,  imagining  the  cause  of  his  outcry,  ran  to  his  assistance  immediately ; and,  having 
opened  the  door  of  his  chamber  with  a master  key,  found  the  poor  knight  struggling  hard 
with  the  cat,  that  would  not  quit  its  hold.  By  the  light  of  the  candles  which  they  had  with 
them,  they  saw  the  unequal  combat.  The  duke  offered  to  interpose,  and  take  off  the  animal, 
but  Don  Quixote  would  not  permit  him.  “ Let  nobody  take  him  off,”  cried  he ; “ let  me  alone 

hand  to  hand  with  this  fiend,  this  sorcerer,  this  necromancer ! I’ll  make  him  know  what  it 

is  to  deal  with  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha.”  But  the  cat  not  minding  his  threats,  growled 
on,  and  still  held  fast,  till  at  length  the  duke  got  its  claws  unhooked  from  the  knight’s  flesh, 
and  flung  the  beast  out  at  the  window.  Don  Quixote’s  face  was  hideously  scratched,  and  his 
nose  in  no  very  good  condition.  Yet  nothing  vexed  him  so  much  as  that  they  had  rescued 
out  of  his  hands  that  villainous  necromancer.  Immediately  some  ointment  was  sent  for,  and 
Altisidora  herself,  with  her  own  lily-white  hands,  applied  some  plaisters  to  his  sores,  and  whispering 
in  his  ear,  as  she  was  dressing  him,  “Cruel,  hard-hearted  knight!”  said  she,  “all  these  disasters 
are  befallen  thee  as  a just  punishment  for  thy  obdurate  stubbornness  and  disdain.  May  thy 
squire  Sancho  forget  to  whip  himself,  that  thy  darling  Dulcinea  may  never  be  delivered  from  . 
her  enchantment,  nor  thou  be  ever  blessed  with  her  embraces,  at  least  so  long  as  I,  thy  neglected 
adorer,  live.” 

Don  Quixote  made  rio  answer  at  all  to  this,  only  he  heaved  a profound  sigh,  and  then 

'.vent  to  take  his  repose,  after  he  had  returned  the  duke  and  duchess  thanks,  not  so  much 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


669 

for  their  assistance  against  that  rascally  crew  of  caterwauling  and  jangling  enchanters,  for  he 
defied  them  all,  but  for  their  kindness  and  good  intent.  Then  the  duke  and  duchess  left 
him,  not  a little  troubled  at  the  miscarriage  of  their  jest,  which  they  did  not  think  would  have 
proved  so  fatal  to  the  knight,  as  to  oblige  him,  as  it  did,  to  keep  his  chamber  five  days, 
during  which  time  there  happened  to  him  another  adventure,  more  pleasant  than  the  last, 
which,  however,  cannot  be  now  related,  for  the  historian  must  return  to  Sancho  Panza,  who 
was  very  busy  and  no  less  pleasant  in  his  government. 


H-  Fls; iv  ^ 


CHAPTER  XLVII. 


A FURTHER  ACCOUNT  OF  SANCHO  PANZA’S  BEHAVIOUR  IN  HIS  GOVERNMENT. 

THE  history  informs  us  that  Sancho  was  conducted  from  the  court  of  justice  to  a 
sumptuous  palace,  where,  in  a spacious  room,  he  found  the  cloth  laid,  and  a most 
neat  and  magnificent  entertainment  prepared.  As  soon  as  he  entered,  the  wind-music  played 
and  four  pages  waited  on  him,  in  order  to  the  washing  his  hands,  which  he  did  with  a great 
deal  of  gravity.  And  now  the  instruments  ceasing,  Sancho  sat  down  at  the  upper  end  of 
the  table,  for  there  was  no  seat  but  there,  and  the  cloth  was  only  laid  for  one.  A certain 
personage,  who  afterwards  appeared  to  be  a physician,  came  and  stood  at  his  elbow,  with  a 

whalebone  wand  in  his  hand.  Then  they  took  off  a curious  white  cloth  that  lay  over  the 

dishes  on  the  table,  and  discovered  great  variety  of  fruit,  and  other  eatables.  One  that  looked 
like  a student  said  grace ; a page  put  a laced  bib  under  Sancho’s  chin,  and  another,  who  did 
the  office  of  server,  set  a dish  of  fruit  before  him.  But  he  had  hardly  put  one  bit  into  his 
mouth,  before  the  physician  touched  the  dish  with  his  wand,  and  then  it  was  taken  away  by 
a page  in  an  instant.  Immediately  another,  with  meat,  was  clapped  in  the  place,  but  Sancho 

nc  sooner  offered  to  taste  it  than  the  doctor,  with  the  wand,  conjured  it  away  as  fast  as  the 


PISAfJ 


;V'\'vSA 


iil Absit !'  cried  the  doctor.”—^.  672. 


072 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


fruit.  Sancho  was  amazed  at  this  sudden  removal,  and  looking  about  him  on  the  company, 
asked  them,  whether  they  used  to  tantalise  people  at  that  rate,  feeding  their  eyes  and  starving 
their  bellies. 

“ My  lord  governor.”  answered  the  physician,  “ you  are  to  eat  here  no  otherwise  than 
according  to  the  use  and  custom  of  other  islands  where  there  are  governors.  I am  a doctor 
of  physic,  my  lord,  and  have  a salary  allowed  me  in  this  island  for  taking  charge  of  the 
governor’s  health,  and  I am  more  careful  of  it  than  of  my  own,  studying  night  and  day  his 
constitution,  that  I may  know  what  to  prescribe  when  he  falls  sick.  Now,  the  chief  thing  I 
do  is  to  attend  him  always  at  his  meals,  to  let  him  eat  what  I think  convenient  for  him, 
and  to  prevent  his  eating  what  I imagine  to  be  prejudicial  to  his  health,  and  offensive  to 
his  stomach.  Therefore  I now  ordered  the  fruit  to  be  taken  away,  because  it  is  too  cold  and 
moist ; and  the  other  dish,  because  it  is  as  much  too  hot,  and  over-seasoned  with  spices,  which 
are  apt  to  increase  thirst ; and  he  that  drinks  much  destroys  and  consumes  the  radical  moisture, 
which  is  the  fuel  of  life. 

“ So,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ this  dish  of  roasted  partridges  can  do  me  no  manner  ot 
harm.” 

“ Hold,”  said  the  physician,  “ the  lord  governor  shall  not  eat  of  them  while  I live  to 
prevent  it.” 

“Why  so?”  cried  Sancho.  “Because,”  answered  the  doctor,  “our  great  master,  Hippo- 
crates, the  north  star  and  luminary  of  physic,  says,  in  one  of  his  aphorisms,  Omnis  saturatio 
mala , perdicis  autem  pessima ; that  is,  ‘ All  repletion  is  bad,  but  that  of  partridges  is  worst 
of  all.’  ” 

“If  it  be  so,”  said  Sancho,  “ let  Mr.  Doctor  see  which  of  all  these  dishes  on  the  table 
will  do  me  the  most  good  and  least  harm,  and  let  me  eat  my  bellyful  of  that,  without  having 
it  whisked  away  with  his  wand.  For,  by  my  hopes  and  the  pleasures  of  government,  as  I 
live,  I am  ready  to  die  with  hunger  ; and  not  to  allow  me  to  eat  any  victuals  (let  Mr.  Doctor 
say  what  he  will)  is  the  way  to  shorten  my  life,  and  not  to  lengthen  it.” 

“ Very  true,  my  lord,”  replied  the  physician  ; “ however,  I am  of  opinion  you  ought  not 
to  eat  of  these  rabbits,  as  being  a hairy,  furry  sort  of  food  ; nor  would  I have  you  taste  that 
veal.  Indeed,  if  it  were  neither  roasted  nor  pickled,  something  might  be  said  ; but,  as  it  is,  it 
must  not  be.” 

“Well,  then,”  said  Sancho,  “what  think  you  of  that  huge  dish  yonder,  that  smokes  so? 
I take  it  to  be  an  olla  podrida ; and  that  being  a hodge-podge  of  so  many  sorts  of  victuals, 
sure  I cannot  but  light  upon  something  there  that  will  nick  me,  and  be  both  wholesome  and 
toothsome.” 

“ Absit /”  cried  the  doctor;  “ far  be  such  an  ill  thought  from  us.  No  diet  in  the  world 
yields  worse  nutriment  than  those  mish-mashes  do.  No,  leave  that  luxurious  compound  to  your 
rich  monks  and  prebendaries,  your  masters  of  colleges  and  lusty  feeders  at  country  weddings  ; 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


673 


but  let  them  not  encumber  the  tables  of  governors,  where  nothing  but  delicate,  unmixed  viands, 
in  their  prime,  ought  to  make  their  appearance.  The  reason  is,  that  simple  medicines  are 
generally  allowed  to  be  better  than  compounds;  for  in  a composition  there  may  happen  a 
mistake,  by  the  unequal  proportion  of  the  ingredients ; but  simples  are  not  subject  to  that 
accident.  Therefore,  what  I would  advise  at  present,  as  a fit  diet  for  the  governor,  for  the 
preservation  and  support  of  his  health,  is  a hundred  of  small  wafers,  and  a few  thin  slices  of 
marmalade,  to  strengthen  his  stomach,  and  help  digestion.”  Sancho,  hearing  this,  leaned  back 
upon  his  chair,  and,  looking  earnestly  in  the  doctor’s  face,  very  seriously  asked  him  what  his 
name  was,  and  where  he  had  studied  ? “My  lord,”  answered  he,  “ I am  called  Dr.  Pedro 
Rezio  de  Aguero.  The  name  of  the  place  where  I was  born  is  Tirteafuera,  and  lies  between 

Caraquel  and  Almodabar  del  Campo,  on  the  right  hand  •,  and  I took  my  degree  of  doctor  in 

the  University  of  Ossuna.” 

“ Hark  you,”  said  Sancho,  in  a mighty  chate,  “ Mr.  Doctor  Pedro  Rezio  de  Aguero,  born 
at  Tirteafuera,  that  lies  between  Caraquel  and  Almodabar  del  Campo,  on  the  right  hand, 

and  who  took  your  degrees  of  doctor  at  the  University  of  Ossuna,  and  so  forth,  take 

yourself  away ! Avoid  the  room  this  moment,  or,  by  the  sun’s  light,  I’ll  get  me  a good 

cudgel,  and,  beginning  with  your  carcase,  will  so  belabour  and  rib-roast  all  the  physic-mongers 
in  the  island,  that  I will  not  leave  therein  one  of  the  tribe  of  those,  I mean,  that  are  ignorant 
quacks ; for,  as  for  learned  and  wise  physicians,  I will  make  much  of  them,  and  honour  then: 
like  so  many  angels.  Once  more,  Pedro  Rezio,  I say,  get  out  of  my  presence.  Avaunt 

or  I will  take  the  chair  I sit  upon,  and  comb  your  head  with  it  to  some  purpose,  and  let  me 

be  called  to  an  account  about  it  when  I give  up  my  office;  I do  not  care,  I will  clear  myself 
by  saying  I did  the  world  good  service  in  ridding  it  of  a bad  physician,  the  plague  of  a 
commonwealth.  Bless  me  ! let  me  eat,  or  let  them  take  their  government  again  ; for  an  office 
that  will  not  afford  a man  his  victuals  is  not  worth  two  horse-beans.”  The  physician  was  terrified, 
seeing  the  governor  in  such  a heat,  and  would  that  moment  have  slunk  out  of  the  room,  had 
not  the  sound  of  a post-horn  in  the  street  been  heard ; whereupon  the  steward,  immediately 

looking  out  of  the  window,  turned  back,  and  said  there  was  an  express  come  from  the  duke, 

doubtless  with  some  despatch  of  importance. 

Presently  the  messenger  entered  sweating,  with  haste  and  concern  in  his  looks,  and,  pulling 
a packet  out  of  his  bosom,  delivered  it  to  the  governor.  Sancho  gave  it  to  the  steward,  and 
ordered  him  to  read  the  direction,  which  was  this:  “To  Don  Sancho  Panza,  governor  of  the 
island  of  Barataria,  to  be  delivered  into  his  own  hands,  or  those  of  his  secretary.” 

“ Who  is  my  secretary  ?”  cried  Sancho. 

“It  is  I,  my  lord,”  answered  one  that  was  standing  by;  “for  I can  read  and  write,  and 
am  a Biscayner.” 

“ That  last  qualification  is  enough  to  make  thee  set  up  for  secretary  to  the  emperor 

himself,”  said  Sancho.  “ Open  the  letter,  then,  and  see  what  it  says.”  The  new  secretary  did 
85 


074 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


so,  and,  having  perused  the  despatch  by  himself,  told  the  governor  that  it  was  a business  that 
was  to  be  told  only  in  private.  Sancho  ordered  every  one  to  leave  the  room,  except  the 
steward  and  the  carver,  and  then  the  secretary  read  what  follows  : — 

“ I have  received  information,  my  Lord  Don  Sancho  Panza,  that  some  of  our  enemies 
intend  to  attack  your  island  with  great  fury,  one  of  these  nights.  You  ought,  therefore,  to 
be  watchful,  and  stand  upon  your  guard,  that  you  may  not  be  found  unprovided.  I have  also 
had  intelligence  from  faithful  spies,  that  there  are  four  men  got  into  the  town  in  disguise,  to 
murder  you,  your  abilities  being  regarded  as  a great  obstacle  to  the  enemy’s  designs.  Look 
about  you,  take  heed  how  you  admit  strangers  to  speak  with  you,  and  eat  nothing  that  is 
laid  before  you.  I will  take  care  to  send  you  assistance,  if  you  stand  in  need  of  it.  And,  in 
everything,  I rely  on  your  prudence.  From  our  castle,  the  16th  of  August,  at  four  in  the 
morning. — Your  friend,  The  Duke.” 

Sancho  was  astonished  at  the  news,  and  those  that  were  with  him  were  no  less  concerned. 
But,  at  last,  turning  to  the  steward,  “ I will  tell  you,”  said  he,  “ what  is  first  to  be  done  in 
this  case,  and  that  with  all  speed.  Clap  me  that  same  Doctor  Rezio  in  a dungeon,  for,  if 
anybody  has  a mind  to  kill  me,  it  must  be  he,  and  that  with  a lingering  death,  the  worst  of 
deaths — hunger-starving.” 

o o 

“ However,”  said  the  carver,  “ I am  of  opinion  your  honour  ought  not  to  eat  any  of  the 
things  that  stand  here  before  you,  for  they  were  sent  in  by  some  of  the  convents  ; and  it  is  a 
common  saying,  ‘ The  devil  lurks  behind  the  cross.  ” 

“ Which  nobody  can  deny,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ and,  therefore,  let  me  have  for  the  present 
but  a luncheon  of  bread  and  some  four  pound  of  raisins ; there  can  be  no  poison  in  that ; for,  in 
short,  I cannot  live  without  eating  ; and,  if  we  must  be  in  readiness  against  these  battles,  we 
had  need  be  well  victualled,  for  it  is  the  belly  keeps  up  the  heart,  and  not  the  heart  the  belly. 
Meanwhile,  secretary,  do  you  send  my  lord  duke  an  answer,  and  tell  him  his  order  shall  be 
fulfilled  in  every  part,  without  fail.  Remember  me  kindly  to  my  lady  duchess,  and  beg  of  her 
not  to  forget  to  send  one  on  purpose,  with  my  letter  and  bundle,  to  Teresa  Panza,  my  wife, 
which  I shall  take  as  a special  favour,  and  I will  be  mindful  to  serve  her  to  the  best  of  my 
power.  And  when  your  hand  is  in,  you  may  crowd  in  my  service  to  my  master,  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,  that  he  may  see  I am  neither  forgetful  nor  ungrateful.  The  rest  I leave  to 
you  ; put  in  what  you  will,  and  do  your  part  like  a good  secretary  and  a staunch  Biscayner. 
Now,  take  away  here,  and  bring  me  something  to  eat,  and  then  you  shall  see  that  I am  able 
to  deal  with  all  the  spies,  wizards,  and  cut-throat  dogs  that  dare  to  meddle  with  me  and  my 
island.” 

At  that  time,  a page  entering  the  room,  “My  lord,”  said  he,  “there  is  a countryman 
without  desires  to  speak  with  your  lordship  about  business  of  great  consequence.” 

“It  is  a strange  thing,”  cried  Sancho,  “that  one  must  still  be  plagued  with  these  men 
of  business ! Is  it  possible  they  should  be  such  sots,  as  not  to  understand  that  this  is  not 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


675 


a time  for  business  ? Do  they  fancy  that  we  governors  and  distributors  of  justice  are  made 
of  iron  and  marble,  and  have  no  need  of  rest  and  refreshment,  like  other  creatures  of  flesh 
and  blood  ? Well,  before  Heaven,  and  on  my  conscience,  if  my  government  does  but  last,  as 
I shrewdly  guess  it  will  not,  I will  get  some  of  these  men  of  business  laid  by  the  heels. 
Well,  for  once,  let  the  fellow  come  in ; but,  first,  take  heed  he  be  not  one  of  the  spies  or 
ruffian  rogues  that  would  murder  me.” 

“ As  for  that,”  said  the  page,  “ I dare  say  he  had  no  hand  in  the  plot.  Poor  soul ! he 
looks  as  if  he  could  not  help  it.  There  is  no  more  harm  in  him,  seemingly,  than  in  a piece 
of  good  bread.” 

“ There  is  no  need  to  fear,”  said  the  steward,  “ since  we  are  all  here  by  you.” 

“ But,  hark  you,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ now  Doctor  Rezio  is  gone,  might  not  I eat  something 
that  has  some  substance  in  it,  though  it  were  but  a crust  and  an  onion  ?” 

“At  night,”  answered  the  carver,  “your  honour  shall  have  no  cause  to  complain;  supper 
shall  make  amends  for  the  want  of  your  dinner.” 

“ Heaven  grant  it  may!”  said  Sancho. 

Now  the  countryman  came  in,  and  by  his  looks  seemed  to  be  a good,  harmless,  silly  soul. 
As  soon  as  he  entered  the  room,  “Which  is  my  lord  governor?”  quoth  he. 

“Who  but  he  that  sits  in  the  chair?”  answered  the  secretary. 

“ I humble  myself  to  his  worship’s  presence,”  quoth  the  fellow  ; and  with  that,  falling  on 
his  knees,  begged  to  kiss  his  hand,  which  Sancho  refused,  but  bid  him  rise,  and  tell  him  what 
he  had  to  say.  The  countryman  then  got  up  : “ My  lord,”  quoth  he,  “ I am  a husbandman  of 
Miguel  Turra,  a town  some  two  leagues  from  Ciudad-Real.” 

“ Here  is  another  Tirteafuera,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ Well,  go  on,  friend  ; I know  the  place 
full  well : it  is  not  far  from  our  town.” 

“ If  it  please  you,”  said  the  countryman,  “ my  business  is  this  : I was  married,  by  Heaven’s 
mercy,  in  the  face  of  our  holy  mother,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  and  I have  two  boys  that 
take  their  learning  at  the  college ; the  youngest  studies  to  become  a bachelor,  and  the  eldest  to 
be  a master  of  arts.  I am  a widower,  because  my  wife  is  dead  ; she  died,  if  it  please  you,  or, 

to  speak  more  truly,  she  was  killed,  as  a body  may  say,  by  a doctor,  who  gave  her  a wrong 

medicine.” 

“ So,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ had  not  your  wife  died,  or  had  they  not  made  her  die,  you 
had  not  been  a widower.” 

“Very  true,”  answered  the  man. 

“ We  are  much  the  nearer,”  cried  Sancho  ; “ go  on,  honest  friend,  and  pr’ythee  dispatch, 
for  it  is  rather  time  to  take  an  afternoon’s  nap,  than  to  talk  of  business.” 

“Now,  sir,  1 must  tell  you,”  continued  the  farmer,  “that  that  son  of  mine,  the  bachelor 

of  arts  that  is  to  be,  fell  in  love  with  a maiden  of  our  town,  Clara  Perlerino  by  name,  the 
daughter  of  Andrew  Perlerino,  a mighty  rich  farmer ; and  Perlerino  is  not  the  right  name 


676 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


neither,  but,  because  the  whole  generation  of  them  is  troubled  with  the  palsy,  they  used 
to  be  called,  from  the  name  of  that  ailing,  Perlaticos,  but  now  they  go  by  that  of  Perlerino ; 
and,  truly,  it  fits  the  young  woman  rarely,  for  she  is  a precious  pearl  for  beauty,  especially  if 
you  stand  on  her  right  side,  and  view  her — she  looks  like  a flower  in  the  fields.  On  the  left, 
indeed,  she  does  not  look  altogether  so  well,  for  there  she  wants  an  eye,  which  she  lost  by 
the  small  pox,  that  has  digged  many  pits  somewhat  deep  all  over  her  face ; but  those  that 
wish  her  well  say  that  is  nothing,  and  that  those  pits  are  so  many  graves  to  bury  lovers’ 
hearts  in.  She  is  so  cleanly,  that,  because  she  will  not  have  her  nose  drop  upon  her  lips, 
she  carries  it  cocked  up  ; and  her  nostrils  are  turned  up  on  each  side,  as  if  they  shunned  her 
mouth,  that  is  somewhat  of  the  widest ; but,  for  all  that,  she  looks  exceedingly  well ; and, 
were  it  not  for  some  ten  or  dozen  of  her  butter-teeth  and  grinders  which  she  wants,  she  might 
set  up  for  one  of  the  cleverest  lasses  in  the  country.  As  for  her  lips,  I do  not  know  what  to 
say  of  them,  for  they  are  so  thin  and  so  slender,  that,  were  it  the  fashion  to  wind  lips  as  they 
do  silk,  one  might  make  a skein  of  hers  ; besides,  they  are  not  of  the  ordinary  hue  of  common 
lips ; no,  they  are  of  the  most  wonderful  colour  that  ever  was  seen,  as  being  speckled  with 
blue,  green,  and  orange  tawny.  I hope  my  lord  governor  will  pardon  me  for  dwelling  thus 
on  the  picture  and  several  rare  features  of  her  that  is  one  day  to  be  my  daughter,  seeing  it  is 
merely  out  of  my  hearty  love  and  affection  for  the  girl.” 

“ Pr’ythee,  paint  on  as  long  as  thou  wilt,”  said  Sancho ; “ I am  mightily  taken  with  this 
kind  of  painting.” 

“ Could  I set  before  your  eyes  her  pretty  carriage  and  her  shape,”  quoth  the  fellow,  “ jmu 
would  admire.  But  that  is  not  to  be  done,  for  she  is  so  crooked  and  crumpled  up  together, 
that  her  knees  and  her  chin  meet ; and  yet  any  one  may  perceive  that,  if  she  could  but  stand 
upright,  her  head  would  touch  the  very  ceiling ; and  she  would  have  given  her  hand  to  my  son 
the  bachelor,  in  the  way  of  matrimony,  before  now,  but  that  she  is  not  able  to  stretch  it  forth, 
the  sinews  being  quite  shrunk  up.  However,  the  broad,  long-guttered  nails  add  no  small  grace 
to  it,  and  may  let  you  know  what  a well-made  hand  she  has.” 

“ So  far,  so  good,”  said  Sancho ; “ but  let  us  suppose  you  have  drawn  her  from  head  to 
foot ; what  is  it  you  would  be  at  now  ? Come  to  the  point,  friend,  without  so  many  windings 
and  turnings,  and  going  round  about  the  bush.” 

“ Sir,”  said  the  farmer,  “ I would  desire  your  honour  to  do  me  the  kindness  to  give  me 

a letter  of  accommodation  to  the  father  of  my  daughter-in-law,  beseeching  him  to  be  pleased 

to  let  the  marriage  be  fulfilled,  seeing  we  are  not  unlike  neither  in  estate  nor  bodily  concerns ; 
for,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  my  lord  governor,  my  son  is  bewitched,  and  there  is  not  a day 
passes  over  his  head  but  the  foul  fiends  torment  him  three  or  four  times  ; and,  having  once 
had  the  ill-luck  to  fall  into  the  fire,  the  skin  of  his  face  is  shrivelled  up  like  a piece  of 

parchment,  and  his  eyes  are  somewhat  sore,  and  full  of  rheum.  But,  when  all  is  said,  he 

has  the  temper  of  an  angel.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


6 77 


“ Have  you  anything  else  to  ask,  honest  man  ?”  said  Sancho. 

“ Only  one  thing  more,”  quoth  the  farmer  ; “ but  I am  somewhat  afraid  to  speak  it ; yet 
I cannot  find  in  my  heart  to  let  it  rot  within  me ; and  therefore,  fall  back  fall  edge,  I must 
out  with  it.  I would  desire  your  worship  to  bestow  on  me  some  three  hundred  or  six  hundred 
ducats  towards  my  bachelor’s  portion,  only  to  help  him  to  begin  the  world,  and  furnish  him  a 
house  ; for,  in  short,  they  would  live  by  themselves,  without  being  subject  to  the  impertinencies 
of  a father-in-law.” 

“ Well,”  said  Sancho,  “ see  if  you  would  have  anything  else  ; if  you  would,  do  not  let  fear 
or  bashful  ness  be  your  hindrance  : out  with  it,  man.” 

“No,  truly,”  quoth  the  farmer;  and  he  had  scarcely  spoken  the  words,  when  the  governor, 
starting  up,  and  laying  hold  of  the  chair  he  sat  on,  “ You  brazen-faced,  silly,  impudent  country 
booby,”  cried  he,  “ get  out  of  my  presence  this  moment,  or,  by  the  blood  of  the  Panzas,  I will 
crack  your  jolter-head  with  this  chair!  What  care  I for  Miguel  Turra,  or  all  the  generation 
of  the  Perlerinos  ? Avoid  the  room,  I say,  or,  by  the  life  of  the  duke,  I’ll  be  as  good  as  my 
word,  and  ding  out  thy  cuckoo  brains.  It  is  not  a day  and  a half  that  I have  been  governor, 
and  thou  wouldst  have  me  have  six  hundred  ducats  already,  dunderheaded  sot!” 

The  steward  made  signs  to  the  farmer  to  withdraw,  and  he  went  out  accordingly,  hanging 
down  his  head,  and,  to  all  appearance,  very  much  afraid  lest  the  governor  should  make  good 
his  angry  threats  ; for  the  cunning  knave  knew  very  well  how  to  act  his  part.  But  let  us  leave 
Sancho  in  his  angry  mood,  and  let  there  be  peace  and  quietness,  while  we  return  to  Don 
Quixote,  whom  we  left  with  his  face  covered  over  with  plaisters,  the  scratches  which  he  had 
got  when  the  cat  so  clapper-clawed  him  having  obliged  him  to  no  less  than  eight  days’  retire- 
ment ; during  which  time  there  happened  that  to  him  which  Cid  Hamet  promises  to  relate 
with  the  same  punctuality  and  veracity  with  which  he  delivers  the  particulars  of  this  history, 
how  trivial  soever  they  may  be. 


CHAPTER  XLVIII. 


WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  WITH  D iNNA  RODRIGUEZ,  THE  DUCHESS’S  WOMAN  ; AS  ALSO  OTHER 
PASSAGES  WORTHY  TO  BE  RECORDED  AND  HAD  IN  ETERNAL  REMEM  BRA  NCF. 


DON  QUIXOTE,  thus  unhappily  hurt,  was  extremely  sullen  and  melancholy,  his  face 
wrapped  up  and  marked,  not  by  the  hand  of  a superior  being,  but  the  paws  of  a cat, 
a misfortune  incident  to  knight-errantry.  He  was  six  days  without  appearing  in  public  ; and 
one  night,  when  he  was  thus  confined  to  his  apartment,  as  he  lay  awake  reflecting  on  his  mis- 
fortunes and  Altisidora’s  importunities,  he  perceived  somebody  was  opening  his  chamber-door 
with  a key.  Up  he  got  in  the  bed,  wrapped  from  head  to  foot  in  a yellow  satin  quilt,  with  a 
woollen  cap  on  his  head,  his  face  and  his  moustachios  bound  up,  his  face  to  heal  his  scratches, 
and  his  moustachios  to  keep  them  down  ; in  which  posture  he  looked  like  the  strangest  apparition 
that  can  be  imagined.  He  fixed  his  eyes  towards  the  door,  and  when  he  expected  to  have  seen 
the  yielding  and  doleful  Altisidora,  he  beheld  a most  reverend  matron  approaching  in  a white 
veil,  so  long  that  it  covered  her  from  head  to  foot.  Betwixt  her  left-hand  fingers  she  carried 
half  a candle  lighted,  and  held  her  right  before  her  face,  to  keep  the  blaze  of  the  taper  from 
her  eyes,  which  were  hidden  by  a huge  pair  of  spectacles.  All  the  way  she  trod  very  softly, 
and  moved  at  a very  slow  pace.  Don  Quixote  watched  her  motions,  and  observing  her  garb 


Don  Quixote,  thus  unhappily  hurt,  was  extremely  sullen  and  melancholy.”—/.  678. 


68o 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


and  silence,  took  her  for  some  witch  or  enchantress  that  came  in  that  dress  to  practise  her 
wicked  sorceries  upon  him,  and  began  to  make  the  sign  of  the  cross  as  fast  as  he  could.  The 
vision  advanced  all  the  while,  and  being  got  to  the  middle  of  the  chamber,  lifted  up  its  eyes, 
and  saw  Don  Quixote  thus  making  a thousand  crosses  on  his  breast.  But  if  he  was  astonished 
at  the  sight  of  such  a figure,  she  was  no  less  affrighted  at  his ; so  that,  as  soon  as  she  spied 
him  thus  wrapped  up  in  yellow,  so  lank,  bepatched,  and  muffled  up,  “ Bless  me !”  cried  she 
“what  is  this  ?” 

With  the  sudden  fright  she  dropped  the  candle,  and  now,  being  in  the  dark,  as  she  was 
running  out,  the  length  of  her  dress  made  her  stumble,  and  down  she  fell  in  the  middle  of  the 
chamber.  Don  Quixote  at  the  same  time  was  in  great  anxiety.  “ Phantom,”  cried  he,  “ or 
whatsoever  thou  art,  I conjure  thee  to  tell  me  who  thou  art,  and  what  thou  requirest  of  me. 
If  thou  art  a soul  in  torment,  tell  me,  and  I will  endeavour  thy  ease  to  the  utmost  of  my 
power ; for  I am  a catholic  Christian,  and  love  to  do  good  to  all  mankind  ; for  which  reason 
I took  upon  me  the  order  of  knight-errantry,  whose  extensive  duties  engage  me  to  relieve 
all  in  distress.” 

The  poor  old  woman,  hearing  herself  thus  conjured,  judged  Don  Quixote's  fears  by  her 
own,  and  therefore,  with  a low  and  doleful  voice,  “ My  Lord  Don  Quixote,”  said  she,  “ if  you 
are  he,  I am  neither  a phantom  nor  a ghost,  as  I suppose  you  fancy,  but  Donna  Rodriguez, 
my  lady  duchess’s  matron  of  honour,  who  come  to  you  about  a certain  grievance,  of  the 
nature  of  those  which  you  use  to  redress.” 

“Tell  me,  Donna  Rodriguez,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “are  not  you  come  to  manage  some 
love  intrigue  ? If  you  are,  take  it  from  me,  you  will  lose  your  labour.  It  is  all  in  vain, 
thanks  to  the  peerless  beauty  of  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso.  In  a word,  madam,  provided 
you  come  not  on  some  such  embassy,  you  may  go  light  your  candle  and  return,  and  we  will 
talk  of  anything  you  please  ; but  remember,  I bar  all  dangerous  insinuations,  all  amorous 
enticements.” 

“What!”  cried  the  matron;  “ I find  you  do  not  know  me,  sir.  But  stay  a little,  I will  go 
light  my  candle,  and  then  I will  tell  you  my  misfortunes,  for  it  is  you  that  sets  to  right  every- 
thing in  the  world.” 

This  said,  away  she  went,  without  stopping  for  an  answer 

Don  Quixote  waited  for  her  a while  quietly,  but  his  working  brain  soon  started  a thousand 
chimeras  concerning  this  new  adventure,  and  he  fancied  he  did  ill  in  giving  way,  though  but  to 
a thought  of  endangering  his  faith  to  his  mistress.  So  he  started  from  the  bed  to  lock  the 
door  and  shut  out  Donna  Rodriguez  ; but  in  that  very  moment  she  happened  to  come  in 
with  a wax  candle  lighted  ; at  which  time  spying  the  knight  near  her,  wrapped  in  his  quilt, 
his  face  bound  up,  and  a woollen  cap  on  his  head,  she  was  frighted  again,  and  started  two  or 
three  steps  back. 

Here  Cid  Hamet  (making  a parenthesis)  swears  by  Mahomet  he  would  have  given  tne 


m 

if 

ll 

[JR 

Hi 

!l  j 

n 

86 


“‘Bless  me!’  cried  she,  ‘what  is  this  ?’  "—p.  680. 


682 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


best  coat  of  two  that  he  had,  only  to  have  seen  the  knight  and  the  matron  thus.  To  make 
short,  Don  Quixote  went  to  bed  again,  and  Donna  Rodriguez  sat  down  in  a chair  at  some 
distance,  without  taking  off  her  spectacles,  or  setting  down  the  candle.  Don  Quixote  crowded 
up  together,  and  covered  himself  close,  all  but  his  face,  and  after  they  had  both  remained  in 
silence,  the  first  that  broke  it  was  the  knight. 

“Now,  madam,”  said  he,  “you  may  freely  unburden  your  heart,  sure  of  attention  to  your 
complaints  from  chaste  ears,  and  assistance  in  your  distress  from  a compassionate  heart.” 

“ I believe  as  much,”  said  the  matron.  “ and  promised  myself  no  less  charitable  an  answer 
from  a person  of  so  graceful  and  pleasing  a presence.  The  case  then  is,  noble  sir,  that  though 
you  see  me  sitting  in  this  chair,  in  the  middle  of  Arragon,  in  the  habit  of  an  insignificant, 
unhappy  duenna,  I am  of  Asturias  de  Oviedo,  and  one  of  the  best  families  in  that  province. 
But  my  hard  fortune,  and  the  neglect  of  my  parents,  who  fell  to  decay  too  soon,  I cannot  tell 
how,  brought  me  to  Madrid,  where,  because  they  could  do  no  better,  for  fear  of  the  worst, 
they  placed  me  with  a court  lady,  to  be  her  chamber-maid.  And,  though  I say  it,  for  all 
manner  of  plain  work  I was  never  outdone  by  any  one  in  all  my  life.  My  father  and  mother 

left  me  at  service,  and  returned  home,  and  some  few  years  after  they  both  died,  and  went  to 

heaven,  I hope  ; for  they  were  very  good  and  religious  Catholics.  Then  was  I left  an  orphan, 
and  wholly  reduced  to  the  sorrowful  condition  of  such  court  servants,  wretched  wages,  and  a 
slender  allowance.  About  the  same  time  the  gentleman-usher  fell  in  love  with  me  before  I 
dreamt  of  any  such  thing,  Heaven  knows.  He  was  somewhat  stricken  in  years,  had  a fine 

beard,  was  a personable  man,  and,  what  is  more,  as  good  a gentleman  as  the  king,  for  he  was 

of  the  mountains.  We  did  not  carry  matters  so  close  in  our  love  but  it  came  to  my  lady’s 
ear ; and  so,  to  hinder  people’s  tongues,  without  any  more  ado,  she  caused  us  to  be  married 
in  the  face  of  our  holy  mother,  the  Catholic  Church.  My  husband  (rest  his  soul !)  died  a while 
after  of  a fright  ; and  had  I but  time  to  tell  you  how  it  happened,  I dare  say  you  would  wonder.” 
Here  she  began  to  weep  piteously.  “Good  sir,”  cried  she,  “I  must  beg  your  pardon,  for  I 
cannot  contain  myself.  As  often  as  I think  of  my  poor  husband  I cannot  forbear  shedding  of 
tears.  Bless  me ! how  he  looked,  and  with  what  stateliness  he  would  ride,  with  my  lady  behind 
him,  on  a stout  mule  as  black  as  jet ; for  coaches  and  chairs  were  not  used  then  as  they  are 
now-a-days,  but  the  ladies  rode  behind  the  gentlemen-ushers.  And  now  my  tongue  is  in,  1 
cannot  help  telling  you  the  whole  story,  that  you  may  see  what  a fine,  well-bred  man  my  dear 
husband  was,  and  how  nice  in  every  punctilio. 

“ One  day,  at  Madrid,  as  he  came  into  St.  James’s  Street,  which  is  somewhat  narrow,  with 
my  lady  behind  him,  he  met  a judge  of  the  court,  with  two  officers  before  him  ; whereupon 
as  soon  as  he  saw  him,  to  show  his  respect,  my  husband  turned  about  his  mule,  as  if  he 
designed  to  have  waited  on  him.  But  my  lady  whispered  him  in  the  ear,  ‘ What  do  you 
mean,  blockhead?’  said  she;  ‘do  not  you  know  I am  here?’  The  judge,  on  his  side,  was  no 
less  civil  : and  stopping  his  horse,  ‘ Sir,’  said  he,  ‘ pray  keep  your  way  ; you  must  not  wait  on 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA  6g^ 

me;  it  becomes  me  rather  to  wait  on  my  Lady  Gasilda  ’ (for  that  was  my  lady’s  name).  How- 
ever, my  husband,  with  his  hat  in  his  hand,  persisted  in  his  civil  intentions.  But  at  last  the 
lady,  being  very  angry  with  him  for  it,  took  a great  pin,  or  rather,  as  I am  apt  to  believe,  a 
bodkin,  out  of  her  case,  and  run  it  into  his  back  ; upon  which,  my  husband  suddenly  starting 
and  crying  out,  fell  out  of  the  saddle,  and  pulled  down  my  lady  after  him.  Immediately  two 
of  her  footmen  ran  to  help  her,  and  the  judge  and  his  officers  did  the  like.  The  gate  of 
Guadalajara  was  presently  in  a hubbub  (the  idle  people  about  the  gate,  I mean).  In  short, 
my  lady  returned  home  a-foot,  and  my  husband  went  to  a surgeon,  complaining  that  he  was 
pricked  through  the  lungs.  And  now  this  civility  of  his  was  talked  of  everywhere,  insomuch 
that  the  very  boys  in  the  streets  would  flock  about  him  and  cheer  him ; for  which  reason, 
and  because  he  was  somewhat  short-sighted,  my  lady  dismissed  him  her  service,  which  he  took 
so  to  heart,  poor  man!  that  it  cost  him  his  life  soon  after.  Now  was  I left  a poor,  helpless 
widow,  and  with  a daughter  to  keep,  who  still  increased  in  beauty  as  she  grew  up,  like  the 
foam  of  the  sea.  At  length,  having  the  name  of  an  excellent  workwoman  at  my  needle,  my  lady 
duchess,  who  was  newly  married  to  his  grace,  took  me  to  live  with  her  here  in  Arragon,  and 

my  daughter  as  well  as  myself.  In  time  the  girl  grew  up,  and  became  the  most  accomplished 

creature  in  the  world.  She  sings  like  a lark,  dances  like  a fairy,  trips  like  a wild  buck,  writes 
and  reads  like  a schoolmaster,  and  casts  accounts  like  a usurer.  I say  nothing  of  her  neatness, 
but  certainly  the  purest  spring  water  that  runs  is  not  more  cleanly ; and  then  for  her  age,  she 
is  now,  if  I mistake  not,  just  sixteen  years,  five  months,  and  three  days  old.  Now,  who  should 
happen  to  fall  in  love  with  this  daughter  of  mine  but  a mighty  rich  farmer’s  son,  that  lives  in 
one  of  my  lord  duke’s  villages  not  far  off ; and,  indeed,  I cannot  tell  how  he  managed  matters, 
but  he  plied  her  so  close,  that,  upon  a promise  of  marriage,  he  wheedled  her  into  a consent, 
and  now  refuses  to  make  his  word  good.  The  duke  is  no  stranger  to  the  business,  for  I 

have  made  complaint  to  him  about  it  many  and  many  times,  and  begged  of  him  to  enjoin 

the  young  man  to  wed  my  daughter ; but  he  turns  his  deaf  ear  to  me,  and  cannot  endure  I 
should  speak  to  him  of  it,  because  the  young  knave’s  father  is  rich,  and  lends  the  duke 
money,  and  is  bound  for  him  upon  all  occasions,  so  that  he  would  by  no  means  disoblige  him. 

“ Therefore,  sir,  I apply  myself  to  your  worship,  and  beseech  you  to  see  my  daughter 
righted,  either  by  entreaties  or  by  force,  seeing  everybody  says  you  were  sent  into  the  world 
to  redress  grievances,  and  assist  those  in  adversity.  Be  pleased  to  cast  an  eye  of  pity  on 
my  daughter’s  orphan  state,  her  beauty,  her  youth,  and  all  her  other  good  parts  ; for,  on  my 
conscience,  of  all  the  damsels  my  lady  has,  there  is  not  one  can  come  up  to  her  by  a mile ; 
no,  not  she  that  is  cried  up  as  the  airiest  and  finest  of  them  all,  whom  they  call  Altisidora . 

I am  sure  she  is  not  to  be  named  the  same  day ; for,  let  me  tell  you,  sir,  ‘ all  is  not  gold  that 
glitters.’  This  same  Altisidora,  after  all,  is  a hoity-toity,  that  has  more  vanity  than  beauty, 
and  less  modesty  than  confidence  Nay,  my  lady  duchess,  too — but  I must  say  no  more,  for,  as 
they  say,  walls  have  ears  ” 


684 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Scarce  had  Donna  Rodriguez  said  these  words,  when  at  one  bounce  the  chamber-door 
hew  open,  whereupon  she  was  seized  with  such  a terrible  fright,  that  she  let  fall  her 
candle,  and  the  room  remained  as  dark  as  a wolfs  mouth,  as  the  saying  is,  and  presently 
the  poor  duenna  felt  somebody  hold  her  by  the  throat,  and  squeeze  her  so  hard,  that  it 
was  not  in  her  power  to  cry  out ; and  another  laid  on  her  so  unmercifully  with  a slipper,  or 

some  such  thing,  that  it  would  have  moved  any  one,  but  those  that  did  it,  to  pity.  Don 

Quixote  was  not  without  compassion,  yet  he  did  not  think  fit  to  stir  from  the  bed,  but  lay 
snug  and  silent  all  the  while,  not  knowing  what  the  meaning  of  this  bustle  might  be,  fearing 
lest  the  tempest  that  poured  on  the  matron  might  also  light  upon  himself ; and  not  without 
reason,  for,  indeed,  after  the  mute  executioners  had  well  cured  the  old  gentlewoman  (who  durst 
not  cry  out),  they  came  to  Don  Quixote,  and  turning  up  the  bed-clothes,  pinched  him  so  hard 
and  so  long,  that,  in  his  own  defence,  he  could  not  forbear  laying  about  him  with  his  fists  as 

well  as  he  could,  till  at  last,  after  the  scuffle  had  lasted  about  half  an  hour,  the  invisible 

phantoms  vanished. 

Donna  Rodriguez,  lamenting  her  hard  fortune,  left  the  room  without  speaking  a word  to 
the  knight.  As  for  him,  he  remained  where  he  was,  sadly  pinched  and  tired,  and  very  moody 
and  thoughtful,  not  knowing  who  this  wicked  enchanter  should  be  that  had  used  him  in  that 
manner.  But  we  shall  know  that  in  its  proper  time.  Now  let  us  leave  him,  and  return  to 
Sancho  Panza,  who  calls  upon  us,  as  the  order  of  our  history  requires. 


CHAPTER  XLIX. 

WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  SANCHO  PANZA  AS  HE  WENT  THE  ROUNDS  IN  HIS  ISLAND. 

WE  left  our  mighty  governor  much  out  of  humour,  and  in  a pelting  chafe  with  that 
saucy  knave  of  a countryman,  who,  according  to  the  instructions  he  had  received 
from  the  steward,  and  the  steward  from  the  duke,  had  bantered  his  worship  with  his  impertinent 
description.  Yet,  as  much  a dunce  and  fool  as  he  was,  he  made  his  party  good  against  them 
all.  At  last,  addressing  himself  to  those  about  him,  among  whom  was  Dr.  Pedro  Rezio,  who 
had  ventured  into  the  room  again,  after  the  consult  about  the  duke’s  letter  was  over,  “ Now," 

i 

said  he,  “ do  I find  in  good  earnest  that  judges  and  governors  must  be  made  of  brass,  or  ought 
to  be  made  of  brass,  that  they  may  be  proof  against  the  importunities  of  those  that  pretend 
business,  who,  at  all  hours,  and  at  all  seasons,  would  be  heard  and  dispatched,  without  any 
regard  to  anybody  but  themselves,  let  what  come  of  the  rest,  so  their  turn  is  served.  Now, 
if  a poor  judge  does  not  hear  and  dispatch  them  presently,  either  because  he  is  otherwise  busy 
and  cannot,  or  because  they  do  not  come  at  a proper  season,  then  do  they  grumble,  and  give 
him  their  blessing  backwards,  rake  up  the  ashes  of  his  forefathers,  and  would  gnaw  his  very 
bones.  But  with  your  leave,  good  Mr.  Busybody,  with  all  your  business,  you  are  too  hasty ; 


6o>6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


pray  have  a little  patience,  and  wait  a fit  time  to  make  your  application.  Do  not  come  at 
dinner  time,  or  when  a man  is  going  to  sleep,  for  we  judges  are  flesh  and  blood,  and  must 

allow  nature  what  she  naturally  requires  ; unless  it  be  poor  I,  who  am  not  to  allow  mine  any 

food,  thanks  to  my  friend,  Mr.  Doctor  Pedro  Rezio  Tirteafuera,  here  present,  who  is  for  starving 
me  to  death,  and  then  swears  it  is  for  the  preservation  of  my  life.  Heaven  grant  him  such  a 
life,  I pray,  for  the  good  physicians  deserve  palms  and  laurels.” 

All  that  knew  Sancho  wondered  to  hear  him  talk  so  sensibly,  and  began  to  think  that 
offices  and  places  of  trust  inspired  some  men  with  understanding,  as  they  stupefied  and  con- 
founded others.  However,  Dr.  Pedro  Rezio  Anguero  de  Tirteafuera  promised  him  he  should 
sup  that  night,  though  he  trespassed  against  all  the  aphorisms  of  Hippocrates.  This  pacified 
the  governor  for  the  present,  and  made  him  wait  with  a mighty  impatience  for  the  evening 

and  supper.  To  his  thinking,  the  hour  was  so  long  a-coming,  that  he  fancied  time  stood  still ; 

but  yet  at  last  the  wished-for  moment  came,  and  they  served  him  up  some  minced  beef,  with 
onions,  and  some  calves’  feet,  somewhat  stale.  The  hungry  governor  presently  fell  to  with 
more  eagerness  and  appetite  than  if  they  had  given  him  Milan  godwits,  Roman  pheasants, 
Sorrentum  veal,  Moron  partridges,  or  Lavajos  green  geese.  And  after  he  had  pretty  well 
taken  off  the  sharp  edge  of  his  stomach,  turning  to  the  physician,  “ Look  you,”  quoth  he,  “ Mr. 
Doctor,  hereafter  never  trouble  yourself  to  get  me  dainties  or  tit-bits  to  humour  my  stomach  ; 
that  would  but  take  it  quite  off  the  hinges,  by  reason  it  has  been  used  to  nothing  but  good 
beef,  bacon,  pork,  goat’s  flesh,  turnips,  and  onions  ; and  if  you  ply  me  with  your  kick-shaws, 
your  nice  courtiers’  fare,  it  will  but  make  my  stomach  squeamish  and  untoward,  and  I should 
perfectly  loath  them  one  time  or  another.  However,  I shall  not  take  it  amiss  if  Master  Sewer 
will  now  and  then  get  me  one  of  those  olla  podridas,  and  the  stronger  they  are  the  belter, 
whete  all  sorts  of  good  things  are  rotten  stewed,  and,  as  it  were,  lost  in  one  another;  and  the 
more  they  are  thus  rotten,  and  like  their  name,  the  better  the  smack  ; and  there  you  make  a 
jumble  of  what  you  will,  so  it  be  eatable  ; and  I shall  remember  him,  and  make  him  amends 
one  of  these  days.  But  let  nobody  put  tricks  upon  travellers,  and  make  a fool  of  me  ; for 
either  we  are  or  we  are  not.  Let  us  be  merry  and  wise  ; when  God  sends  his  light,  he 
sends  it  to  all.  I will  govern  this  island  fair  and  square,  without  underhand  dealings  or 
taking  of  bribes  ; but  take  notice,  I will  not  bate  an  inch  of  my  right,  and  therefore  let  every 
one  carry  an  even  hand,  and  mind  their  hits,  or  else  I would  have  them  to  know  there  are 
rods  in  pickle  for  them.  They  that  urge  me  too  far  shall  rue  for  it ; make  yourself  honey,  and 
the  flies  will  eat  you.” 

“Indeed,  my  lord  governor,”  said  the  steward,  “ your  lordship  is  much  in  the  right  in  all 
you  have  said  ; and  I dare  engage  for  the  inhabitants  of  this  island,  that  they  will  obey  and 
observe  your  commands  with  diligence,  love,  and  punctuality ; for  your  gentle  way  of  governing, 
in  the  beginning  of  your  administration,  does  not  give  them  the  least  opportunity  to  act  or  to 
design  anything  to  your  lordship’s  disadvantage.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


687 


“ I believe  as  much,”  answered  Sancho,  “ and  they  would  be  silly  wretches,  should  they 
offer  to  do  or  think  otherwise.  Let  me  tell  you  too,  it  is  my  pleasure  you  take  care  of  me 
and  my  Dapple,  that  we  may  both  have  our  food  as  we  ought,  which  is  the  most  material 
business.  Next,  let  us  think  of  going  the  rounds,  when  it  is  time  for  me  to  do  it ; for  I intend 
to  clear  this  island  of  all  filth  and  rubbish,  of  all  rogues  and  vagrants,  idle  iusks  and  sturdy 
beggars.  For  I would  have  you  to  know,  my  good  friends,  that  your  slothful,  lazy,  lewd  people 
in  a commonwealth  are  like  drones  in  a beehive,  that  waste  and  devour  the  honey  which  the 
labouring  bees  gather.  I design  to  encourage  the  husbandmen,  preserve  the  privileges  of  the 
gentry,  reward  virtuous  persons,  and,  above  all  things,  reverence  religion,  and  have  regard  to 
the  honour  of  religious  men.  What  think  you  of  this,  my  good  friends  ? Do  I talk  to  the 
purpose,  or  do  I talk  idly  ?” 

“ You  speak  so  well,  my  lord  governor,”  answered  the  steward,  “ that  I stand  in  admiration 
to  hear  a man  so  unlettered  as  you  are  (for  I believe  your  lordship  cannot  read  at  all)  utter 
so  many  notable  things,  and  in  every  word  a sentence,  far  from  what  they  who  have  sent  you 
hither,  and  they  who  are  here  present,  ever  expected  from  your  understanding.  But  every 
day  produces  some  new  wonder ; jests  are  turned  into  earnest,  and  those  who  designed  to  laugh 
at  others  happen  to  be  laughed  at  themselves.” 

It  being  now  night,  and  the  governor  having  supped,  with  Dr.  Rezio’s  leave,  he  prepared 
to  walk  the  rounds,  and  set  forward,  attended  by  the  steward,  the  secretary,  the  gentleman 
waiter,  the  historiographer,  who  was  to  register  his  acts,  several  serjeants,  and  other  limbs  of 
the  law,  so  many  in  number,  that  they  made  a little  battalion,  in  the  middle  of  which  the  great 
Sancho  marched,  with  his  rod  of  justice  in  his  hand,  in  a notable  manner.  They  had  not 
walked  far  in  the  town,  before  they  heard  the  clashing  of  swords,  which  made  them  hasten 
to  the  place  whence  the  noise  came.  Being  come  thither,  they  found  only  two  men  fighting, 
who  gave  over,  perceiving  the  officers. 

“ What !”  cried  one  of  them  at  the  same  time,  “ do  they  suffer  folks  to  be  robbed  in  this 
town,  in  defiance  of  Heaven  and  the  king  ? Do  they  let  men  be  stripped  in  the  middle  of 
the  street?” 

“Hold,  honest  man,”  said  Sancho;  “have  a little  patience,  and  let  me  know  the  occasion 
of  this  fray,  for  I am  the  governor.” 

“ My  lord,”  said  the  other  party,  “ I will  tell  you  in  a few  words.  Your  lordship  must 
know  that  this  gentleman,  just  now,  at  a gaming  ordinary  over  the  way,  won  above  a thousand 
reals,  Heaven  knows  how.  I stood  by  all  the  while,  and  gave  judgment  for  him  in  more  ^ 
than  one  doubtful  cast,  though  I could  not  well  tell  how  to  do  it  in  conscience.  He  carried 
off  his  winnings,  and  when  I expected  he  would  have  given  me  a crown  gratuity,  as  it  is  a 
claim  among  gentlemen  of  my  fashion,  who  frequent  gaming  ordinaries,  from  these  that  play 
high  and  win,  for  preventing  quarrels,  being  at  their  backs  and  giving  judgment  right  or 
wrong,  nevertheless  he  went  away  without  giving  me  anything.  I ran  after  him,  not  very 


DON  QU IXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


688 

well  pleased  with  his  proceeding,  yet  very  civilly  desired  him  to  consider  1 was  his  friend, 
that  he  knew  me  to  be  a gentleman,  though  fallen  to  decay,  who  had  nothing  to  live  upon, 

my  friends  having  brought  me  up  to  no  employment ; and  therefore  I entreated  him  to  be  so 

kind  as  to  give  me  eight  reals ; but  the  stingy  soul,  a greater  thief  than  Cacus,  and  a worse 

sharper  than”  Andradilla,  would  give  me  but  sneaking  four  reals.  And  now,  my  lord,  you 

may  see  how  little  shame  and  conscience  there  is  in  him.  But  in  faith,  had  not  your  lordship 
erne  just  in  the  nick,  1 would  have  made  him  disgorge  his  winnings,  and  taught  him  the 

difference  between  a rook  and  a jackdaw. 

“What  say  you  to  this?”  cried  Sancho  to  the  other. 

The  other  made  answer,  that  he  could  not  deny  what  his  antagonist  had  said,  that  he 

would  give  him  but  four  reals,  because  he  had  given  him  money  several  times  before ; and 

they  who  expect  benevolence  should  be  mannerly,  and  be  thankful  for  what  is  given  them, 
without  haggling  with  those  that  have  won,  unless  they  know  them  to  be  common  cheats,  and 
the  money  not  won  fairly  ; and  that  to  show  he  was  a fair  gamester,  and  no  sharper,  as  the 

other  said,  there  needed  no  better  proof  than  his  refusal  to  give  him  anything,  since  the 

sharpers  are  always  in  fee  with  these  bully-rooks,  who  know  them,  and  wink  at  their  cheats. 
“That  is  true,”  said  the  steward.  “Now,  what  would  your  lordship  have  us  to  do  with 

these  men  ?” 

“ I will  tell  you,”  said  Saucho.  “ First,  you  that  are  the  winner,  whether  by  fair  play  or 
by  foul,  give  your  bully-back  here  a hundred  reals  immediately,  and  thirty  more  for  the  poor 
prisoners ; and  you  that  have  nothing  to  live  on,  and  were  brought  up  to  no  employment, 
and  »o  sharping  up  and  down  from  place  to  place,  pray  take  your  hundred  reals,  and  be  sure 
by  to-morrow  to  go  out  of  this  island,  and  not  to  set  foot  in  it  again  these  ten  years  and  a 
day  unless  you  have  a mind  to  make  an  end  of  your  banishment  in  another  world  ; for  if  1 
find  yon  here,  I will  make  you  swing  on  a gibbet,  with  the  help  of  the  hangman.  Away,  and 

let  nobody  offer  to  reply,  or  1 will  lay  him  by  the  heels. 

Thereupon  the  one  disbursed,  and  the  other  received  ; the  first  went  home,  and  the  last 
went  out  of  the  island;  and  then  the  governor,  going  on,  “Either  1 shall  want  of  my  will, 

said  he  “ or  I will  put  down  these  disorderly  gaming-houses.' 

- As  for  this  house  in  question,”  said  one  of  the  officers,  “ I suppose  it  will  be  a hard 

matter  to  put  it  down,  for  it  belongs  to  a person  of  quality,  who  loses  a great  deal  more  by 
play  at  the  year’s  end  than  he  gets  by  his  cards  You  may  show  your  authority  against  other 
gaming-houses  of  less  note,  that  do  more  mischief,  and  harbour  more  dangerous  people,  than 
the  houses  of  gentlemen  and  persons  of  quality,  where  your  notorious  sharpers  dare  not  use 
their  sleights  of  hand.  And  since  gaming  is  a vice  that  is  become  a common  practice,  ,t  is 

better  to  play  in  good  gentlemens  houses  than  in  those  of  under  officers,  where  they  shall 

draw  you  in  a poor  bubble,  and  after  they  have  kept  you  playing  all  the  night  long,  send  you 

away  stripped  to  the  skip. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


689 


“ Well,  all  in  good  time,”  said  Sancho  : “ I know  there  is  a great  deal  to  be  said  on  this.” 

At  the  same  time  one  of  the  officers  came,  holding  a youth,  and  having  brought  him 
before  the  governor,  “ If  it  please  your  worship,”  said  he,  “ this  young  man  was  coming  towards 
us,  but  as  soon  as  he  perceived  it  was  the  rounds,  he  sheered  off,  and  set  a-running  as  fast  as 
his  legs  would  carry  him — a sign  he  is  no  better  than  he  should  be.  I ran  after  him,  but  had 
not  he  happened  to  fall,  I had  never  come  up  with  him.” 

“What  made  you  run  away,  friend  ?”  said  Sancho. 

The  youth  replied,  “ 1 ran,  my  lord,  to  avoid  answering  the  multitude  of  questions  which 
officers  of  justice  are  so  accustomed  to  ask.” 

“ What  trade  are  you  of  ? ” quoth  Sancho. 

“ A weaver,”  answered  the  youth. 

“ And  what  do  you  weave  ? ” quoth  Sancho. 

“ Iron  heads  for  spears,  an  it  please  your  worship  ” 

“You  are  pleasant  with  me,  and  value  yourself  upon  being  a jester,”  quoth  Sancho.  “Very 
well,  sir  ; and  whither  were  you  going  ? ” 

“To  take  the  air,  sir,”  replied  the  lad. 

“ And,  pray,  where  do  people  take  the  air  in  this  island  ? ” said  Sancho. 

“ Where  it  blows,”  answered  the  youth. 

“ Good,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ you  answer  to  the  purpose  ; you  are  a discreet  young  man.  But 
now,  make  account  that  I am  the  air,  and  that  I blow  on  you,  and  drive  you  to  gaol.  Here, 
lay  hold  of  him,  and  take  him  to  prison  : I will  make  him  sleep  there  to-night.” 

Quoth  the  youth,  “Your  honour  can  no  more  do  that  than  you  can  make  me  king.” 

“Why  cannot  I make  you  sleep  in  prison?”  demanded  Sancho.  “Have  I not  power  to 
confine  or  release  you,  as  I please  ? ” 

“ Whatever  power  your  worship  may  have,  you  have  not  enough  to  make  me  sleep  in  prison.” 

“Indeed!”  replied  Sancho.  “Away  with  him  immediately,  that  he  may  see  his  mistake 
with  his  own  eyes  ; and,  lest  the  gaoler  should  put  his  interested  generosity  in  practice,  if  he 
suffer  you  to  stir  a step  from  the  prison,  I will  sconce  him  in  two  thousand  ducats.” 

“ All  this  is  only  laughable,”  answered  the  youth ; “ for  still  I defy  all  the  world  to  make 
me  sleep  this  night  in  prison.” 

“Tell  me,  rascal,”  quoth  Sancho,  “hast  thou  any  angel  to  rescue  thee,  by  unloosing  the 
fetters  I intend  to  have  riveted  on  thy  limbs  ? ” 

“My  lord  governor,”  answered  the  youth,  with  an  air  of  pleasantry,  “let  us  consult  reason 
a little,  and  come  to  the  point.  Supposing  your  worship  were  to  order  me  to  gaol,  to  load 
me  with  chains  and  fetters,  to  confine  me  in  a dungeon,  and  impose  heavy  penalties  upon  the 
gaoler,  if  he  permit  me  to  stir  out ; and  suppose  these  orders  punctually  obeyed  ; yet,  for  all  that, 
if  I have  no  mind  to  sleep,  but  to  keep  awake  all  night,  without  so  much  as  shutting  my 

eyelids,  can  your  worship,  with  all  your  power,  make  me  sleep  whether  I will  or  no?” 

87 


690 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“No,  certainly,''  said  the  secretary';  “and  the  young  man  has  proved  his  assertion." 

“ Granted,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ provided  he  would  forbear  sleeping  only  to  have  his  own 
will,  and  not  out  of  pure  contradiction  to  mine.” 

“Truly,  my  lord,"  said  the  youth,  “I  never  thought  of  such  a thing.” 

“ T.  hen,  God  be  with  you,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “go,  sleep  at  home,  and  I wish  you  a good  night’s 
rest,  which  I shall  not  attempt  to  disturb;  but  I would  advise  you  in  future  to  be  less  jocose 
with  officers  of  justice,  for  you  may  meet  with  one  that  may  lay  the  joke  over  your  noddle.” 

The  youth  went  his  way,  and  the  governor  continuing  his  round,  a couple  of  sergeants 
presently  came  with  a person  in  custody,  and  said,  “ My  lord  governor,  this  here  person,  who 
seems,  to  be  a man,  is  not  so,  but  a woman,  and  no  ugly  one  either,  in  man’s  clothes.”  Two 
or  three  lanterns  being  immediately  lifted  up  to  her  face,  it  was  discovered  by  their  light  that 
it  was  indeed  that  of  a female,  seemingly  about  sixteen  years  of  age,  beautiful  as  a thousand 
pearls,  with  her  hair  tucked  up  under  a net-work  caul  of  green  silk  and  gold.  Having  viewed 
her  from  head  to  foot,  it  appeared  that  she  had  flesh-coloured  stockings,  with  garters  of  white 
taffeta,  and  tassels  of  gold  and  seed-pearl  ; breeches  of  green  and  gold  tissue,  a loose  coat  of 
the  same,  and  a superb  waistcoat  of  white  and  gold  stuff.  Her  shoes  were  white,  and  such 
as  are  worn  by  men.  She  had  no  sword,  but  a very  rich  dagger  ; and  on  her  fingers  were 
many  rings  of  great  value.  In  a word,  all  who  beheld  her  were  struck  with  admiration,  but 
nobody  knew  the  lady,  and  evert  such  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  who  were  present  said 
they  could  not  imagine  who  she  could  be.  The  persons  who  were  in  the  secret  of  the  jests 
put  upon  Sancho  wondered  the  most,  for  this  adventure  was  not  of  their  contriving ; and 
therefore  they  were  in  suspense,  expecting  the  issue  of  so  unforeseen  an  incident.  Sancho, 
struck  like  the  rest  with  the  beauty  of  the  damsel,  asked  her  who  she  was,  whither  she  was 
going,  and  what  had  moved  her  to  dress  herself  in  that  manner.  Fixing  her  eyes  on  the  ground, 
she  answered,  with  a modest  bashfulness,  “ Sir,  I cannot  declare  so  publicly  what  it  concerns 
me  so  much  to  conceal  ; of  one  thing,  however,  I must  beg  leave  to  assure  your  worship,  that 
I am  no  thief,  no  criminal  person,  but  an  unhappy  maiden  whom  the  force  of  jealousy  has 
tempted  to  break  through  the  rules  of  female  decorum.” 

The  steward,  hearing  this,  said  to  Sancho,  “ My  lord  governor,  order  all  your  attendants 
to  go  aside,  that  this  lady  may  speak  her  mind  with  less  concern.” 

The  governor  did  so,  and  they  all  retired  to  a distance,  the  steward,  the  sewer,  and  the 
secretary  excepted.  The  damsel  then  proceeded,  saying,  “ I am  the  daughter,  gentlemen,  of 
Pedro  Perez  Mazorca,  who  farms  the  wool  of  this  town,  and  comes  frequently  to  my  father’s 
house.” 

“ This  will  not  pass,  madam,”  said  the  steward ; “ for  I know  Pedro  Perez  well,  and 
am  sure  he  has  no  child,  neither  son  nor  daughter : besides,  you  say  he  is  your  father,  and 
immediately  add  that  he  comes  frequently  to  your  lather’s  house.” 

“ i took  notice  of  that,”  quoth  Sancho. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


691 

“ Indeed,  gentlemen,”  answered  the  damsel,  “ I am  in  such  confusion,  that  I know  not 
what  I say  : but  the  truth  is,  I am  the  daughter  of  Diego  de  la  Liana,  whom  you  all  know.” 

“ This  may  do,"  answered  the  steward ; “ for  with  Diego  de  la  Liana  I am  also  acquainted, 

and  know  that  he  is  a gentleman  of  rank  and  fortune,  and  has  both  a son  and  a daughter  : 
but  since  he  has  been  a widower,  the  face  of  this  daughter  has  never  been  seen ; for  he 

keeps  her  so  closely  shut  up,  that  he  will  not  give  the  sun  leave  to  shine  upon  her ; and 

report  says  she  is  extremely  handsome.” 

“ That  unfortunate  daughter  am  I,  and  too  true  is  what  you  state  respecting  my  rigorous 
confinement,”  answered  the  damsel.  “ Whether  fame  lies,  as  to  my  beauty,  you,  gentlemen, 
can  judge,  since  you  have  seen  me  : ” and  she  began  to  weep  bitterly ; upon  which  the 
secretary  said  in  a whisper  to  the  sewer,  “ Something  of  importance  must  have  happened  to 
have  induced  so  considerable  a person  as  this  young  lady  to  leave  her  home  in  such  a dress, 
and  at  so  unseasonable  an  hour.” 

“ No  doubt,”  answered  the  sewer  ; “ and  the  suspicion  is  confirmed  by  her  tears.” 

Sancho  comforted  her  as  well  as  he  could,  and  desired  her  to  tell  them  the  whole  matter, 
without  fear  ; assuring  her  they  would  all  endeavour  to  serve  her  with  sincerity. 

“ The  case  then  is,  gentlemen,”  she  replied,  “ that  my  father  has  kept  me  locked  up  for 
the  long  space  of  ten  years  ; such  being  the  time  that  has  elapsed  since  death  deprived  me 
of  my  mother.  Mass  is  said  in  our  house  in  a splendid  chapel,  and  during  the  period  I 
have  mentioned  I have  seen  nothing  but  the  sun  in  the  heavens  by  day,  and  the  moon  and 
stars  by  night.  I am  utterly  unacquainted  with  the  streets,  squares,  churches,  and  every 
inhabitant  of  the  town,  except  my  father,  my  brother,  and  Pedro  Perez,  the  wool-farmer,  whose 
visits  to  our  house  led  me  to  say  he  was  my  father,  to  conceal  the  truth.  Being 
debarred  the  privilege  of  going  out,  so  much  as  to  church,  has  for  days  and  months  greatly 
disquieted  me.  I wished  to  see  the  world,  or  at  least  the  town  in  which  I was  born,  and 
could  not  consider  the  wish  as  any  breach  of  that  decency  which  young  ladies  ought  always 
to  observe.  When  I heard  of  bull-feasts,  of  darting  javelins  on  horseback,  and  of  the 
representation  of  plays,  I requested  my  brother,  who  is  a year  younger  than  myself,  to  tell 
me  what  those  and  several  other  things  that  I had  never  seen  meant,  which  he  used  to  do 
in  the  best  manner  he  could ; and  the  desire  I had  of  seeing  them  was  but  the  more  inflamed. 
In  a word,  to  shorten  my  story,  I prayed  and  entreated  him — oh,  that  I had  never  so 
prayed,  never  so  entreated  1 ” and  again  she  was  overcome  with  weeping. 

“ Proceed,  madam,”  said  the  steward,  “ and  make  an  end  of  your  story,  for  your  words 
and  tears  keep  us  in  painful  anxiety.” 

Accordingly,  interrupted  by  occasional  sobs  and  sighings,  she  thus  continued  : “ My 

whole  misfortune  and  unhappiness  consists  only  in  this — I requested  my  brother  to  dress  me 
in  his  clothes,  and  take  me  out,  some  night,  while  my  father  should  be  asleep,  to  see  the 
town.  Importuned  by  my  entreaties,  he  complied  at  last,  and  gave  me  this  dress,  disguising 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


692 

himself  at  the  same  time  in  a suit  of  mine,  which  fits  as  if  it  were  made  for  him;  and  as  he 
has  not  so  much  as  one  hair  of  a beard,  he  might  be  taken  for  a very  beautiful  young  girl. 
It  was  not  above  an  hour  ago  that  we  escaped  from  the  house  ; and,  guided  by  a footboy 
and  our  own  unruly  fancies,  we  had  traversed  the  whole  town,  and  were  returning  home,  when, 
seeing  a number  of  people  approaching,  my  brother  said  to  me,  ‘ Sister,  this  must  be  the 
round  ; put  wings  to  your  feet,  and  fly  after  me,  that  they  may  not  know  us,  for  woe  betide 
us  if  they  should!’  And  he  turned  instantly  back,  and  began,  not  to  run,  but  to  fly.  In 
attempting  to  follow,  I fell  down  from  fright,  before  I had  taken  six  steps ; and  the  officer 
of  justice  coming  up,  I was  seized,  and  brought  before  your  honour,  where  my  indiscreet 
longing  has  exposed  me  to  shame  before  so  many  people.” 

“Then,  in  reality,  madam,”  quoth  Sancho,  “no  other  mishap  has  befallen  you;  and  it  was 
not  jealousy,  as  you  told  us  at  the  beginning  of  your  story,  that  led  you  from  home  ? ” 

“ Nothing  else,”  replied  the  damsel,  “has  befallen  me,  nor  is  there  any  jealousy  in  the 
case ; it  was  merely  a desire  of  seeing  the  world,  or  rather  the  streets  of  this  town,  for  my 
curiosity  went  no  farther.” 

The  appearance  of  the  brother  in  the  custody  of  two  sergeants,  who  had  pursued  and 
overtaken  him,  as  he  fled  from  his  sister,  confirmed  the  truth  of  what  she  had  said.  The 
female  dress  of  the  young  man  consisted  merely  of  a rich  petticoat,  and  a blue  damask 
mantle,  with  a splendid  border ; for  he  had  no  cap  or  ornament  of  any  kind  on  his  head,  but 
his  own  beautiful  hair,  which  was  so  fair  and  glossy  that  it  seemed  so  many  ringlets  of  the 
purest  gold.  The  governor,  the  steward,  and  the  sewer,  taking  him  aside,  out  of  the  hearing 
of  his  sister,  asked  him  how  he  came  to  be  in  that  disguise  : and,  with  no  less  bashfulness  and 
concern,  he  told  the  same  story  as  she  had  done,  to  the  unspeakable  joy  of  the  enamoured 
sewer.  But  the  governor  said,  “ Really,  young  gentlefolks,  this  is  a very  childish  frolic  ; and  in 
relating  it  there  needed  not  half  so  many  sighs  and  tears  : had  you  but  said,  ‘ Our  names  are 
so-and-so,  and  we  stole  out  of  our  father’s  house  by  such  and  such  a contrivance,  only  out 
of  curiosity,  and  with  no  other  design  whatever,’  the  tale  had  been  told  as  soon  as  begun,  and 
all  these  takings-on,  these  moanings  and  groanings,  might  have  been  spared.” 

“Yes,  sir,”  answered  the  damsel;  “but  the  confusion  I was  in  was  so  great,  that  it  did 
not  suffer  me  to  demean  myself  as  I ought.” 

“ There  is  no  harm  done,”  answered  Sancho  : “we  will  see  you  safe  to  your  fatner’s  house; 
j-erhaps  he  has  not  missed  you.  And  henceforward  be  less  childish,  and  not  so  eager  to  play 
the  vagrant ; for  ‘ the  modest  maid,  and  a broken  leg,  should  stay  at  home  ; ’ and  ‘ the  woman 
and  the  hen  are  lost  by  gadding;’  and  ‘she  who  desires  to  see,  desires  no  less  to  be  seen.’ 
And  this  is  all  I shall  say  upon  the  subject.” 

The  youth  thanked  the  governor  for  the  intended  favour  of  seeing  them  safe  home,  and 
they  bent  their  course  towards  the  house,  which  was  not  far  off.  When  they  arrived,  the 
brother  threw  up  a small  stone  to  a grated  window,  and  a servant-maid,  who  waited  for  t lem. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


693 


immediately  came  down  and  opened  the  door,  and  the  rovers  went  in,  leaving  every  one  in 
admiration  at  their  genteel  deportment  and  beauty,  as  well  as  at  their  singular  desire  of  seeing 
the  world  by  night,  without  stirring  out  of  the  town,  which  was  imputed  to  their  tender  years. 

The  sewer’s  heart  being  pierced  through  and  through,  he  purposed  within  himself  to 
demand  the  young  lady,  the  next  day,  of  her  father  in  marriage,  taking  it  for  granted  that,  being 
a servant  of  the  duke,  he  could  not  be  refused.  Sancho,  too,  had  similar  thoughts  of  matching 
the  young  man  with  his  daughter  Sanchica,  and  determined  to  bring  it  about  the  first  opportunity, 
presuming,  from  his  quality  of  governor,  that,  look  where  he  would  for  an  alliance,  he  had  only 
to  ask  and  have.  Thus  ended  that  night’s  round,  and,  two  days  after,  the  great  Sancho’s 
government  also  terminated,  by  which  all  his  designs  and  expectations  were  overturned  and 
destroyed,  as  shall  hereafter  be  shown. 


CHAPTER  L. 


IN  WHICH  IS  DECLARED  WHO  WERE  THE  ENCHANTERS  AND  EXECUTIONERS  THAT  WHIPPED  THE  DUENNA, 
AND  PINCHED  AND  SCRATCHED  DON  QUIXOTE;  WITH  THE  SUCCESS  OF  THE  PAGE  WHO  CARRIED 
THE  LETTER  TO  TERESA  PANZA,  SANCHO’S  WIFE. 

CID  HAMET,  the  most  punctual  and  diligent  searcher  after  the  minutest  circumstances, 
even  to  the  very  atoms  of  this  true  history,  says  that,  when  Donna  Rodriguez  quitted 
her  chamber  to  go  to  Don  Quixote’s,  another  donna,  her  bedfellow,  being  awake,  perceived  it ; 
and,  as  all  duennas  have  the  itch  of  listening  after,  prying  into,  and  smelling  out  things,  she 
followed  her  so  softly,  that  good  Rodriguez  was  not  in  the  least  aware  of  it ; and,  as  soon  as 
she  saw  her  enter,  that  she  might  not  be  wanting  in  the  general  humour  of  her  tribe,  which  is 
to  be  tale-bearers,  away  she  tripped  that  instant  to  acquaint  the  duchess  with  the  proceeding. 
The  duchess  acquainted  the  duke,  and  begged  that  she  and  Altisidora  might  be  permitted  to 
go  and  see  what  was  the  duenna’s  business  with  the  knight.  The  duke  consenting,  they  both 
gently,  step  by  step,  crept,  as  it  were,  and  posted  themselves  close  to  the  door  of  the 
chamber ; so  close  indeed,  that  not  a word  that  was  said  within  escaped  them  ; and  when  the 
duchess  heard  the  duenna  expose  her  failings,  neither  could  she  nor  Altisidora  bear  it ; 
and  accordingly,  brimful  of  choler,  they  burst  into  the  room,  and  pinched  Don  Quixote,  and 
whipped  the  duenna  in  the  manner  related  above  ; for  affronts  levelled  against  the  beauty 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


^95 


and  vanity  of  women  awaken  their  wrath  in  an  extraordinary  manner,  and  inflame  them  with 
a desire  of  revenge  that  is  scarcely  governable. 

The  duchess  recounted  to  the  duke  all  that  had  passed,  with  which  he  was  much  diverted; 
and  proceeding  in  her  design  of  making  farther  sport  with  Don  Quixote,  she  dispatched  the 
page,  who  had  acted  the  part  of  Dulcinea  in  the  projected  disenchantment  of  that  lady,  to 
Teresa  Panza,  with  her  husband’s  letter  (for  Sancho  was  so  taken  up  with  his  government  that 
he  had  quite  forgotten  it),  and  another  from  herself,  together  with  a large  string  of  rich  corals 
by  way  of  present. 

Now  the  history  informs  us  that  the  page  was  a very  discreet  and  shrewd  fellow,  and, 
being  extremely  desirous  of  pleasing  his  lord  and  lady,  he  departed,  in  happy  mood,  for 
Sancho’s  village ; and,  being  arrived  near  it,  he  inquired  of  some  females  whom  he  saw  washing 
their  linen  in  a brook,  if  they  knew  where  one  Teresa  Panza  lived. 

The  question  was  no  sooner  asked  than  a young  wench,  who  was  of  the  number,  started 
up  and  said,  “ That  Teresa  Panza,  sir,  is  my  mother,  and  that  Sancho  my  father,  and  that 
knight  our  master.” 

“Are  they  so?”  quoth  the  page;  “then  bring  me  to  your  mother,  young  damsel,  for  I 
have  a letter  and  a present  for  her  from  that  same  father  of  yours.” 

“ That  will  I,  with  all  my  heart,  sir,"  answered  the  girl,  who  seemed  to  be  about  fourteen 
years  of  age ; and,  leaving  the  linen  she  was  washing  to  one  of  her  companions,  without  putting 
anything  on  her  head  or  her  feet,  with  bare  legs,  and  dishevelled  hair,  she  ran  skipping 
before  the  page’s  horse,  saying,  “ Come  along,  sir,  for  our  house  stands  just  at  the  entrance  of 
the  village,  and  there  you  will  find  my  mother  in  trouble  enough,  through  not  having  heard 
for  so  long  a time  any  news  of  my  father.” 

“ I bring  her  news,”  quoth  the  page,  “ that  she  may  well  thank  God  for.” 

In  short,  with  jumping,  running,  and  capering,  the  girl  soon  reached  the  village,  and 
before  she  entered  the  house  she  called  aloud  at  the  door,  “ Come  out,  mother  Teresa, 
come  out ! for  here  is  a gentleman  who  brings  letters  and  other  things  from  my  good 
father.  ” 

Hearing  her  daughter’s  voice,  Teresa  Panza  made  her  appearance,  having  in  her  hand  a 
distaff  of  tow  which  she  had  been  spinning,  dressed  in  a grey  petticoat,  so  short  that  it 
looked  as  if  it  had  been  docked  at  the  placket,  and  a grey  bodice,  her  smock  sleeves  hanging 
slatternly  about  it.  She  was  not  old,  though  she  seemed  to  have  seen  forty,  and  was  strong, 
hale,  sinewy,  and  hard  as  a hazel-nut.  Seeing  her  daughter,  and  a page  with  her  on 
horseback,  she  said,  “ What  is  the  matter,  girl  ? what  gentleman  is  this  ?” 

“It  is  a humble  servant  of  my  Lady  Donna  Teresa  Panza,”  answered  the  page;  and 
he  flung  himself  from  his  horse,  and,  with  great  respect,  went  and  kneeled  before  her,  saying, 
“ Be  pleased,  Signora  Donna  Teresa,  to  permit  me  to  kiss  your  ladyship’s  hand,  as  the  lawful 
and  only  wife  of  Signor  Don  Sancho  Panza,  sole  governor  of  the  island  of  Barataria.” 


6q6 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“Ah!  dear  sir,  forbear!  do  not  do  so,”  answered  Teresa;  “for  I am  no  court  dame,  but 
a poor  countrywoman,  daughter  of  a ploughman,  and  wife  of  a squire-errant,  anci  not  of  any 
governor  whatever.” 

“Your  ladyship,”  answered  the  page,  “ is  the  most  worthy  consort  of  an  archworthy  governor; 
and  for  proof  of  what  I say,  be  pleased,  madam,  to  receive  this  letter  and  this  present.”  He 
then  drew  from  his  pocket  a string  of  corals,  every  bead  set  in  gold ; and,  putting  it  round 
her  neck,  he  said,  “ This  letter  is  from  my  lord  governor,  and  another  that  I have,  and 
these  corals  are  from  my  lady  duchess,  who  sends  me  to  your  ladyship,  with  her  congratulations.” 

Teresa  was  perfectly  amazed,  and  her  daughter  no  less  so,  and  the  girl  said,  “ May  1 
die,  if  our  master  Don  Quixote  be  not  at  the  bottom  of  this  good  business,  and  has  given 
my  father,  at  last,  the  government  or  earldom  he  so  often  promised  him.” 

“ It  is  even  so,”  answered  the  page  ; “and,  for  Signor  Don  Quixote’s  sake,  my  lord  Sancho 
is  now  governor  of  the  island  of  Barataria,  as  you  will  see  by  his  letter.” 

“Pray,  young  gentleman,”  quoth  Teresa,  “be  pleased  to  read  it  to  me;  for,  though  I can 
spin,  I cannot  read  a tittle.” 

“Nor  I neither,”  added  Sanchica  ; “but  stay  a moment  and  I will  call  somebody  that  can, 
though  it  be  the  priest  himself,  or  the  bachelor,  Samson  Carrasco,  who  will  come  with  all 
their  hearts  to  hear  news  of  my  father.” 

“ There  is  no  need  of  calling  anybody,”  quoth  the  page  ; “ for,  though  I cannot  spin,  I 
can  read,  and  you  shall  hear  it  immediately.”  Accordingly  he  read  it ; and  then  delivered 
that  from  the  duchess,  which  was  as  follows  : — 

“Friend  Teresa, — The  good  qualities,  both  as  to  talents  and  integrity,  of  your  husband 
Sancho  have  moved  and  induced  me  to  desire  the  duke,  my  spouse,  to  give  him  the  government 
of  one  of  the  many  islands  under  his  jurisdiction ; and  I am  informed  he  governs  like  any 
hawk,  at  which  I and  my  lord  duke  are  mightily  pleased  : and  I give  great  thanks  to  Heaven 
that  I have  not  been  deceived  in  my  recommendation.  For,  let  me  tell  Madam  Teresa,  it 
is  a difficult  thing  to  find  a good  governor  now-a-days,  and  God  make  me  as  good  as  Sancho 
governs  well.  I send  you  herewith,  my  dear  lady  governess,  a string  of  corals  set  in  gold  : I 
wish  they  were  of  Oriental  pearl ; but  ‘ who  gives  thee  an  egg  has  no  mind  to  see  thee  dead.’ 
The  time  will  come  when  we  shall  be  better  acquainted,  and  converse  together,  and  who  knows 
what  may  happen  ? Commend  me  to  Sanchica,  your  daughter,  and  tell  her  from  me  to  get 
herself  ready,  for  I mean  to  marry  her  toppingly  when  she  least  thinks  of  it  I am  told  the 
acorns  of  your  town  are  very  large  ; pray  send  me  some  two  or  three  dozen  of  them,  for  I 
shall  esteem  them  the  more  as  coming  from  your  hand  : and  write  to  me  immediately,  advising 
me  of  your  health  and  welfare.  If  you  want  anything,  you  need  but  open  your  mouth  and 

it  shall  be  measured.  So  God  have  you  in  his  holy  keeping. 

“ Your  loving  friend, 


Prom  this  place. 


“The  Duchess.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


697 


“Ah!”  quoth  Teresa,  on  hearing  the  letter,  “how  good,  how  plain,  how  humble  a lady! 
Let  me  be  buried  with  such  ladies  as  this,  ana  not  your  gentlewomen  of  this  town,  who  think, 
because  they  are  quality-folks,  the  wind  must  not  blow  upon  them  ; and  they  go  to  church  with 
as  much  vanity  as  if  they  were  very  queens.  One  would  think  they  took  it  for  a disgrace  to 
look  upon  a poor  peasant  woman  ; and  see  here  how  this  good  lady,  though  she  be  a duchess, 

calls  me  friend,  and  treats  me  as  if  I were  her  equal ; and  equal  may  I see  her  to  the  highest 

steeple  in  La  Mancha.  As  to  the  acorns,  sir,  I will  send  her  ladyship  a whole  peck,  and  such 
choice  ones  that  people  shall  come  far  and  near  to  see  and  admire  them.  And  now,  Sanchica, 
look  to  the  entertainment  of  this  gentleman,  and  make  much  of  him  ; take  care  of  his  horse, 

and  bring  some  new-laid  eggs  out  of  the  stable,  and  slice  some  rashers  of  bacon,  and  let  us 

treat  him  like  any  prince ; for  the  good  news  he  has  brought  us,  and  his  own  good  looks,  deserve 
no  less  ; and,  in  the  meanwhile,  I will  step  with  the  news  of  our  joy  to  my  neighbours,  and 
especially  to  our  father  the  priest,  and  to  Master  Nicholas  the  barber,  who  are,  and  always  have 
been,  your  father  s great  friends.” 

“Yes,  mother,  I will,”  answered  Sanchica;  “but,  hark  you,  mother,  I must  have  half  that 
string  of  corals,  for  I do  not  take  my  lady  duchess  to  be  such  a fool  as  to  send  it  all  to  you.5 

“ No,  it  is  all  for  you,  daughter,”  answered  Teresa;  “but  let  me  wear  it  a few  days  about 
my  neck,  for  methinks  it  cheers  my  very  heart.” 

“Your  heart  will  be  still  more  cheered,”  quoth  the  page,  “when  you  shall  see  the  bundle 
I have  in  this  portmanteau ; it  is  a suit  of  superfine  cloth,  which  the  governor  wore  only  one 
clay  at  a hunting-match,  and  he  has  sent  it  all  for  the  use  of  Signora  Sanchica.” 

“May  he  live  a thousand  years!”  answered  Sanchica;  “and  the  bearer  neither  more  nor 
less,  ay,  and  two  thousand,  if  need  be.” 

Teresa  now  sallied  forth  with  the  letters,  and  the  beads  about  her  neck,  playing  with  her 
fingers  upon  the  letters,  as  she  went  along,  as  if  they  had  been  a timbrel  ; and  accidentally 
meeting  the  priest  and  Samson  Carrasco,  she  began  to  dance,  and  say,  “ In  faith  we  have  no 
poor  relations  now  ; we  have  caught  a government.  Ay,  ay,  let  the  proudest  gentlewoman  of 
them  all  meddle  with  me,  I will  make  her  know  her  distance.” 

“How  now,  Teresa?"  said  the  curate;  “what  mad  fit  is  this?  what  papers  are  those  in 
your  hand  ? ” 

“No  mad  fit  at  all,”  answered  Teresa;  “but  these  are  letters  from  duchesses  and  governors, 
and  these  beads  about  my  neck  are  right  coral,  the  Ave  Marias  I mean  ; and  the  Pater  Nosters 
are  of  beaten  gold  : and  I am  a madam  governess,  I will  assure  you.” 

“Verily,”  said  the  curate,  “there  is  no  understanding  you,  Teresa;  we  do  not  know  what 
you  mean.” 

“There  is  what  will  clear  the  riddle,”  quoth  Teresa  ; and  with  that  she  gave  them  the  letters. 

Thereupon,  the  curate  having  read  them  aloud,  that  Samson  Carrasco  might  also  be 

informed,  they  both  stood  and  looked  on  one  another,  and  were  more  at  a loss  than  before. 

88 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


O98 

The  bachelor  ashed  her  who  brought  the  letter.  Teresa  told  them  they  might  go  home  with 
her  and  see.  It  was  a sweet,  handsome  young  man,  as  fine  as  anything ; and  that  he  had 
brought  her  another  present  worth  twice  as  much. 

The  curate  took  the  string  of  beads  from  her  neck,  and  viewed  it  several  times  over,  and, 
finding  that  it  was  a thing  of  value,  he  could  not  conceive  the  meaning  of  all  this.  “ By  the 
habit  that  I wear,”  cried  he,  “ I cannot  tell  what  to  think  of  this  business.  In  the  first  place, 
I am  convinced  these  beads  are  right  coral,  and  gold  ; and,  in  the  next,  here  is  a duchess  sends 
to  beg  a dozen  or  two  of  acorns.” 

“ Crack  that  nut  if  you  can,”  said  Samson  Carrasco.  “ But  come,  let  us  go  and  see  the 
messenger,  and  probably  he  will  clear  our  doubts.” 

Thereupon,  going  with  Teresa,  they  found  the  page  sifting  a little  corn  for  his  horse,  and 
Sanchica  cutting  a rasher  of  bacon,  to  be  fried  with  eggs,  for  his  dinner.  They  both  liked 
the  page’s  mien  and  his  garb ; and  after  the  usual  compliments,  Samson  desired  him  to  tell 
them  some  news  of  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  Panza ; for  though  they  had  read  a letter  from 
the  latter  to  his  wife,  and  another  from  the  duchess,  they  were  no  better  than  riddles  to  them, 
nor  could  they  imagine  how  Sancho  should  come  by  a government,  especially  of  an  island,  well 
knowing  that  all  the  islands  in  the  Mediterranean,  or  the  greatest  part  of  them,  were  the  king’s. 

“ Gentlemen,”  answered  the  page,  “ it  is  a certain  truth  that  Signor  Sancho  Panza  is  a 
governor,  but  whether  it  be  of  an  island  or  not  I do  not  pretend  to  determine  ; but  this  I can 
assure  you,  that  he  commands  in  a town  that  has  above  a thousand  inhabitants.  And  as  for 
my  lady  duchess’s  sending  to  a countrywoman  for  a few  acorns,  that  is  no  such  wonder,  for 
she  is  so  free  from  pride  that  I have  known  her  send  to  borrow  a comb  of  one  of  her  neighbours. 
You  must  know  our  ladies  of  Arragon,  though  they  are  as  noble  as  those  of  Castile,  do  not 
stand  so  much  upon  formalities  and  punctilios,  neither  do  they  take  so  much  state  upon  them, 
but  treat  people  with  more  familiarity.” 

While  they  were  thus  discoursing,  in  came  Sanchica  skipping,  with  her  lap  full  of  eggs,  and 
turning  to  the  page,  “ Pray,  sir,”  said  she,  “ tell  me,  does  my  father  wear  trunk-breeches  now 
he  is  a governor  ? ” 

“Truly,”  said  the  page,  “I  never  minded  it,  but  without  doubt  he  does.” 

“ Oh,  gemini ! ” cried  the  young  wench,  “ what  would  I not  give  to  see  my  father  in  his 
trunk-breeches!  Is  it  not  a strange  thing  that  ever  since  I can  remember  myself  I have  wished 
to  see  my  father  in  trunk-breeches  ? ” 

“You  will  see  him  as  you  would  have  him,”  said  the  page,  “if  your  ladyship  does  but  live. 
Indeed,  if  his  government  holds  but  two  months,  you  will  see  him  go  with  an  umbrella  over 
his  head.” 

The  curate  and  the  bachelor  plainly  perceived  that  the  page  did  but  laugh  at  the  mother 
and  daughter ; but  yet  the  costly  string  of  beads,  and  the  hunting  suit,  which  by  this  time 
Teresa  had  let  them  see,  confounded  them  again. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  699 

“ Good  master  curate,”  quoth  she,  “ do  so  much  as  inquire  whether  any  of  our  neighbours 
are  going  to  Madrid  or  Toledo.  I would  have  them  buy  me  a hugeous  farthingale  of  the  newest 

and  most  courtly  fashion,  and  the  very  finest  that  can  be  got  for  money  ; for,  by  my  holidame, 

I mean  to  credit  my  husband’s  government  as  much  as  I can  ; and  if  they  vex  me,  I will  hie 

me  to  that  same  court,  and  ride  in  my  coach,  too,  as  well  as  the  best  of  them ; for  she  that 

is  a governor’s  lady  may  very  well  afford  to  have  one.” 

“Oh,  rare  mother!”  cried  Sanchica,  “would  it  were  to-night  before  to-morrow.  Mayhap, 
when  they  saw  me  sitting  in  our  coach  by  my  lady  mother,  they  would  jeer  and  flout : ‘ Look, 
look!’  would  they  say,  ‘ yonder  is  goody  Trollop,  the  plough-jobber’s  bairn!  How  she  flaunts 
it,  and  goes  on  lolling  in  her  coach  like  a little  Pope  Joan!’  But  what  would  I care?  Let 
them  trudge  on  in  the  dirt,  while  I ride  by  in  my  coach.  Shame  and  ill  luck  go  along  with 
all  your  little  backbiting  scrubs!  ‘Let  them  laugh  that  win.’  Am  I not  in  the  right,  mother?” 

“Ay,  marry,  art  thou,  child,”  quoth  Teresa;  “and,  indeed,  my  good  honey  Sancho  has 

often  told  me  all  these  good  things,  and  many  more,  would  come  to  pass ; and  thou  shalt  see, 

daughter,  I will  never  rest  till  I get  to  be  a countess.  There  must  be  a beginning  in  all 

things,  as  I have  heard  it  said  by  thy  father,  who  is  also  the  father  of  proverbs.  ‘ When  a 

cow  is  given  thee,  run  and  take  her  with  a halter.’  When  they  give  thee  a government, 
take  it ; when  an  earldom,  catch  it ; and  when  they  whistle  to  thee  with  a good  gift,  snap  at 
it.  * That  which  is  good  to  give  is  good  to  take,’  girl.  It  were  a pretty  fancy,  trow,  to  lie 
snoring  a-bed,  and  when  good  luck  knocks,  not  to  rise  and  open  the  door.” 

“ Ay,”  quoth  Sanchica,  “ what  is  it  to  me,  though  they  should  say  all  they  have  a mind 
to  say  ? When  they  see  me  so  tearing  fine,  and  so  woundy  great,  let  them  spit  their  venom 
and  say,  ‘ Set  a beggar  on  horseback,’  and  so  forth.” 

“ Who  would  not  think,”  said  the  curate,  hearing  this,  “ but  that  the  whole  race  of  the 
Panzas  came  into  the  world  with  their  heads  stuffed  with  proverbs  ? I never  knew  one  of 
the  name  but  threw  them  out  at  all  times,  let  the  discourse  be  what  it  would.” 

“ I think  so,  too,”  said  the  page,  “ for  his  honour,  the  governor,  blunders  them  out  at 
every  turn ; many  times,  indeed,  wide  from  the  purpose  ; however,  always  to  the  satisfaction 
of  the  company,  and  with  high  applause  from  my  lord  and  lady.” 

“ Then,  sir,  you  assure  us  still,”  said  Carrasco,  “ that  Sancho  is  really  a governor,  and 
that  a duchess  sends  these  presents  and  letters  upon  his  account ; for  though  we  see  the 
things,  and  read  the  letters,  we  can  scarce  prevail  with  ourselves  to  believe  it,  but  are  apt 
to  run  into  our  friend  Don  Quixote’s  opinion,  and  look  on  all  this  as  the  effect  of  some 
enchantment ; so  that  I could  find  in  my  heart  to  feel  and  try  whether  you  are  a visionary 
messenger  or  a creature  of  flesh  and  blood.” 

“For  my  part,  gentlemen,”  answered  the  page,  “all  I can  tell  you  is  that  I am  really 
the  messenger  I appear  to  be  ; that  the  Lord  Sancho  Panza  is  actually  a governor,  and  that 
the  duke  and  the  duchess,  to  whom  I belong,  are  able  to  give  and  have  given  him  that 


700 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


government,  where,  I am  credibly  informed,  he  behaves  himself  most  worthily.  Now,  if  there 
be  any  enchantment  in  the  matter,  I leave  you  to  examine  that ; for  I know  no  more.” 

“That  may  be,”  said  the  bachelor,  “but  yet  dubitat  Augustinus .” 

“ You  may  doubt  if  you  please,”  replied  the  page,  “ but  I have  told  you  the  truth,  which 
will  always  prevail  over  falsehood  and  rise  uppermost,  as  oil  does  above  water.  But  if  you 
will  operibus  credere , et  non  verbis , let  one  of  you  go  along  with  me,  and  you  shall  see  with 
your  eyes  what  you  will  not  believe  by  the  help  of  your  ears.” 

“ I will  go  with  all  my  heart,”  quoth  Sanchica ; “ take  me  up  behind  ye,  sir ; I have  a 
huge  mind  to  see  my  father.” 

“ The  daughters  of  governors,”  said  the  page,  “ must  not  travel  thus  unattended,  but  in 
coaches  or  litters,  and  with  a handsome  train  of  servants.” 

“ Bless  me ! ” quoth  Sanchica,  “ I can  go  a journey  as  well  on  an  ass  as  in  one  of  your 

coaches.  I am  none  of  your  tender,  squeamish  things,  not  I.” 

“Peace,  chicken!”  quoth  the  mother;  “thou  dost  not  know  what  thou  sayest ; the  gentleman 
is  in  the  right : times  are  altered.  When  it  was  plain  Sancho,  it  was  plain  Sanchica ; but  now 
he  is  a governor,  thou  art  a lady  : I cannot  well  tell  whether  I am  right  or  no.” 

“My  Lady  Teresa  says  more  than  she  is  aware  of,”  said  the  page.  “ But  now,”  continued 

he,  “ give  me  a mouthful  to  eat  as  soon  as  you  can,  for  I must  go  back  this  afternoon.” 

“ Be  pleased  then,  sir,”  said  the  curate,  “ to  go  with  me  and  partake  of  a slender  meal  at 
my  house,  for  my  neighbour  Teresa  is  more  willing  than  able  to  entertain  so  good  a guest.” 

The  page  excused  himself  a while,  but  at  last  complied,  being  persuaded  it  would  be  much 

for  the  better ; and  the  curate,  on  his  side,  was  glad  of  his  company,  to  have  an  opportunity 

to  inform  himself  at  large  about  Don  Quixote  and  his  proceedings. 

The  bachelor  proffered  Teresa  to  write  her  answers  to  her  letters,  but  as  she  looked  upon 
him  to  be  somewhat  waggish,  she  would  not  permit  him  to  be  of  her  counsel  ; so  she  gave 

a roll  and  a couple  of  eggs  to  a young  acolyte  of  the  church,  and  he  wrote  two  letters  for 

her  ; one  to  her  husband,  and  the  other  to  the  duchess,  all  of  her  own  inditing. 


CHAPTER  LI. 

A CONTINUATION  OF  SANCHO  PANZA’S  GOVERNMENT,  WITH  OTHER  PASSAGES,  SUCH  AS  THEY  ARE. 

THE  morning  of  that  day  arose  which  succeeded  the  governor’s  rounding  night,  the 
remainder  of  which  the  gentleman-waiter  spent  not  in  sleep,  but  in  the  pleasing 
thoughts  of  the  lovely  face  and  charming  grace  of  the  disguised  virgin ; on  the  other  side 
the  steward  bestowed  that  time  in  writing  to  his  lord  and  lady  what  Sancho  did  and  said, 
wondering  no  less  at  his  actions  than  at  his  expressions,  both  which  displayed  a strange 
intermixture  of  discretion  and  simplicity. 

At  last  the  lord  governor  was  pleased  to  rise,  and,  by  Dr.  Pedro  Rezio’s  order,  they 
brought  him  for  his  breakfast  a little  conserve  and  a draught  of  fair  water,  which  he  would 
have  exchanged  with  all  his  heart  for  a good  luncheon  of  bread  and  a bunch  of  grapes  ; but 

seeing  he  could  not  help  himself,  he  was  forced  to  make  the  best  of  a bad  market,  and 

seem  to  be  content,  though  full  sore  against  his  will  and  appetite  ; for  the  doctor  made  him 
believe  that  to  eat  but  little,  and  that  which  was  dainty,  enlivened  the  spirits  and  sharpened 
the  wit ; and,  consequently,  such  a sort  of  diet  was  most  proper  for  persons  in  authority  and 

weighty  employments,  wherein  there  is  less  need  of  the  strength  of  the  body  than  that  of  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


702 

mind.  This  sophistry  served  to  famish  Sancho,  who,  half-dead  with  hanger,  cursed  in  his 
heart  both  the  government  and  him  that  had  given  it  him.  However,  hungry  as  he  was,  by 
the  strength  of  his  slender  breakfast,  he  failed  not  to  give  audience  that  day  ; and  the  first 
that  came  before  him  was  a stranger,  who  put  the  following  case  to  him,  the  stewards  and 
the  rest  of  the  attendants  being  present : — 

“ My  lord,”  said  he,  “a  large  river  divides  in  two  parts  one  and  the  same  lordship.  I beg 
your  honour  to  lend  me  your  attention,  for  it  is  a case  of  great  importance  and  some  difficulty. 
Upon  this  river  there  is  a bridge,  at  the  one  end  of  which  there  stands  a gallows  and  a kind 
of  court  of  justice,  where  four  judges  used  to  sit  for  the  execution  of  a certain  law  made  by 
the  lord  of  the  land  and  river,  which  runs  thus  : — ■ 

“ * Whoever  intends  to  pass  from  one  end  of  this  bridge  to  the  other  must  first,  upon  his 
oath,  declare  whither  he  goes  and  what  his  business  is.  If  he  swear  truth,  he  may  go  on  ; but 
if  he  swear  false,  he  shall  be  hanged,  and  die  without  remission  upon  the  gibbet  at  the  end  of 
the  bridge.’ 

“ After  due  promulgation  of  this  law,  many  people,  notwithstanding  its  severity,  adventured 
to  go  over  this  bridge,  and  as  it  appeared  they  swore  true,  the  judges  permitted  them  to  pass 
unmolested.  It  happened  one  day  that  a certain  passenger  being  sworn,  declared,  that  by  the 
oath  he  had  taken,  he  was  come  to  die  upon  that  gallows,  and  that  was  all  his  business. 

“This  put  the  judges  to  a nonplus;  ‘for,’  said  they,  ‘if  we  let  this  man  pass  freely  he 
is'  forsworn,  and,  according  to  the  letter  of  the  law,  he  ought  to  die ; if  we  hang  him,  he 

has  sworn  truth,  seeing  he  swore  he  was  to  die  on  that  gibbet ; and  then  by  the  same  law 

we  should  let  him  pass.’ 

“ Now,  your  lordship’s  judgment  is  desired  what  the  judges  ought  to  do  with  this  man  ; 
for  they  are  still  at  a stand,  not  knowing  what  to  determine  in  this  case ; and  having  been 
informed  of  your  sharp  wit  and  great  capacity  in  resolving  difficult  questions,  they  sent  me  to 
beseech  your  lordship,  in  their  names,  to  give  your  opinion  in  so  intricate  and  knotty  a case.” 

“To  deal  plainly  with  you,”  answered  Sancho,  “those  worshipful  judges  that  sent  you 
Hither  might  as  well  have  spared  themselves  the  trouble,  for  I am  more  inclined  to  dulness, 
I assure  you,  than  sharpness ; however,  let  me  hear  your  question  once  more,  that  I may 
thoroughly  understand  it,  and  perhaps  I may  at  last  hit  the  nail  upon  the  head.”  The  man 

repeated  the  question  again  and  again ; and  when  he  had  done,  “To  my  thinking,”  said 

Sancho,  “ this  question  may  be  presently  answered,  as  thus  : The  man  swore  he  came  to  die 
on  the  gibbet,  and  if  he  die  there,  he  swore  true,  and,  according  to  the  law,  he  ought  to  be 
free  and  go  over  the  bridge.  On  the  other  side,  if  you  do  not  hang  him,  he  swore  false, 
and  by  the  same  law  he  ought  to  be  hanged.” 

“It  is  as  your  lordship  says,”  replied  the  stranger;  “you  have  stated  the  case  right” 
Why,  then,”  said  Sancho,  “ even  let  that  part  of  the  man  that  spoke  true  freely  pass, 
and  hang  the  other  part  of  the  man  that  swore  false,  and  so  the  law  will  be  fulfilled.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA 


7CT3 


“ But  then,  my  lord,”  replied  the  stranger,  “ the  man  must  be  divided  into  two  parts, 
which,  if  we  do,  he  certainly  dies,  and  the  law,  which  must,  every  tittle  of  it,  be  observed,  is 
not  put  in  execution.” 

“Well,  hark  you  me,  honest  man,”  said  Sancho,  “either  I am  a very  dunce,  or  there  is 
as  much  reason  to  put  this  same  person  you  talk  of  to  death,  as  to  let  him  live  and  pass 
the  brido-e  ; for  if  the  truth  saves  him,  the  lie  condemns  him.  Now  the  case  stands  thus: 
I would  have  you  tell  those  gentlemen  that  sent  you  to  me,  since  there  is  as  much  reason 
to  bring  him  off  as  to  condemn  him,  that  they  even  let  him  go  free  ; for  it  is  always  more 
commendable  to  do  good  than  hurt.  And  this  I would  give  you  under  my  own  hand  if  !I 
could  write.  Nor  do  I speak  this  of  my  own  head;  but  I remember  one  precept,  among 
many  others,  that  my  master,  Don  Quixote,  gave  me  the  night  before  I went  to  govern  this 
island,  which  was,  that  when  the  scale  of  justice  is  even,  or  a case  is  doubtful,  we  should 
prefer  mercy  before  rigour  ; and  it  has  pleased  God  I should  call  it  to  mind  so  luckily  at  this 
juncture.” 

“For  my  part,”  said  the  steward,  “this  judgment  seems  to  me  so  equitable  that  I do  not 
believe  Lycurgus  himself,  who  gave  the  laws  to  the  Lacedmmonians,  could  ever  have  decided 
the  matter  better  than  the  great  Sancho  has  done. 

“ And  now,  sir,  sure  there  is  enough  done  for  this  morning ; be  pleased  to  adjourn  the 
court,  and  I will  give  order  that  your  excellency  may  dine  to  your  heart’s  content.” 

“ Well  said,”  cried  Sancho ; “ that  is  all  I want,  and  then  a clear  stage  and  no  favour. 
Feed  me  well,  and  then  ply  me  with  cases  and  questions  thick  and  threefold  ; you  shall  see 
me  untwist  them,  and  lay  them  open  as  clear  as  the  sun.” 

The  steward  was  as  good  as  his  word,  believing  it  would  be  a burden  to  his  conscience 
to  famish  so  wise  a governor  : besides,  he  intended  the  next  night  to  put  in  practice  the  last 
trick  which  he  had  commission  to  pass  upon  him. 

Now  Sancho  having  plentifully  dined  that  day,  in  spite  of  all  the  aphorisms  of 
Dr.  Tirteafuera,  when  the  cloth  was  removed,  in  came  an  express  with  a letter  from  Don 
Quixote  to  the  governor.  Sancho  ordered  the  secretary  to  read  it  to  himself,  and  if  there.' was 
nothing  in  it  for  secret  perusal,  then  to  read  it  aloud. 

The  secretary  having  first  run  it  over  accordingly,  “ My  lord,”  said  he,  “ the  letter  may 
not  only  be  publicly  read,  but  deserves  to  be  engraved  in  characters  of  gold ; and  thus 

• • 9t  t 1 

It  IS. 

• • 

Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  to  Sancho  Panza.  Governor  of  the  Island  of  Barataria. 

“ When  I expected  to  have  had  an  account  of  thy  carelessness  and  impertinences,  friend 
Sancho,  I was  agreably  disappointed  with  news  of  thy  wise  behaviour ; for  which  I return 
particular  thanks  to  Heaven,  that  can  raise  the  lowest  from  their  poverty,  and  turn  the  fool  into 
a man  of  sense.  I hear  thou  governest  with  ali  the  discretion  of  a man  ; and  that  whilst  thou 


704 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


approvest  thyself  one,  thou  retainest  the  humility  of  the  meanest  creature.  But  I desire  thee 
to  observe,  Sancho,  that  it  is  many  times  very  necessary  and  convenient  to  thwart  the  humility 
of  the  heart  for  the  better  support  of  the  authority  of  a place.  For  the  ornament  of  a person 
that  is  advanced  to  an  eminent  post  must  be  answerable  to  its  greatness,  and  not  debased  to 
the  inclination  of  his  former  meanness.  Let  thy  apparel  be  neat  and  handsome  ; even  a stake 
well  dressed  does  not  look  like  a stake.  I would  not  have  thee  wear  foppish,  gaudy  things, 
nor  affect  the  garb  of  a soldier  in  the  circumstances  of  a magistrate  ; but  let  thy  dress  be 
suitable  to  thy  degree,  and  always  clean  and  decent. 

“ To  gain  the  hearts  of  thy  people,  among  other  things,  I have  two  chiefly  to  recommend  : 
One  is,  to  be  affable,  courteous,  and  fair  to  all  the  world.  I have  already  told  thee  of  that. 
And  the  other,  to  take  care  that  plenty  of  provisions  be  never  wanting,  for  nothing  afflicts  or 
urges  more  the  spirits  of  the  poor  than  scarcity  and  hunger. 

“ Do  not  put  out  many  new  orders  ; and  if  thou  dost  put  out  any,  see  that  they  be  wholesome 
and  good,  and  especially  that  they  be  strictly  observed  ; for  laws  not  well  obeyed  are  no  better 
than  if  they  were  not  made,  and  only  show  that  the  prince  who  had  the  wisdom  and  authority 
to  make  them  had  not  the  resolution  to  see  them  executed  ; and  laws  that  only  threaten,  and 
are  not  kept,  become  like  the  log  that  was  given  to  the  frogs  to  be  their  king,  which  they  feared 
at  first,  but  at  last  scorned  and  trampled  on. 

“ Be  a father  to  virtue,  but  a father-in-law  to  vice.  Be  not  always  severe,  nor  always 
merciful  ; choose  a mean  between  these  two  extremes,  for  that  middle  point  is  the  centre  of 
discretion. 

“ Visit  the  prisons,  the  shambles,  and  the  public  markets,  for  the  governor’s  presence  is 
highly  necessary  in  such  places. 

“ Comfort  the  prisoners  that  hope  to  be  quickly  dispatched. 

“ Be  a terror  to  the  butchers,  that  they  may  be  fair  in  their  weights,  and  keep  hucksters 
and  fraudulent  dealers  in  awe,  for  the  same  reason. 

“ Shouldst  thou  unhappily  be  inclined  to  be  covetous,  or  a glutton,  as  I hope  thou  art 
not,  avoid  showing  thyself  guilty  of  those  vices  ; for  when  the  town,  and  those  that  come  near 
thee,  have  discovered  thy  weakness,  they  will  be  sure  to  try  thee  on  that  side,  and  tempt  thee 
to  thy  everlasting  ruin. 

“ Read  over  and  over,  and  seriously  consider  the  admonitions  and  documents  I gave  thee 
in  writing  before  thou  wentest  to  thy  government,  and  thou  wilt  find  the  benefit  of  it  in  all 
those  difficulties  and  emergencies  that  so  frequently  attend  the  function  of  a governor. 

“Write  to  thy  lord  and  lady,  and  show  thyself  grateful;  for  ingratitude  is  the  offspring  of 
pride,  and  one  of  the  worst  corruptions  of  the  mind  : whereas  he  that  is  thankful  to  his  benefactors 
gives  a testimony  that  he  will  be  so  to  God,  who  has  done  him  so  much  good. 

“ My  lady  duchess  dispatched  a messenger  on  purpose  to  thy  wife  Teresa,  with  thy  hunting 
suit  and  another  present.  We  expect  his  return  every  moment. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


705 

“ I have  been  somewhat  out  of  order  by  a certain  cat  encounter  T had  lately,  not  much 
to  the  advantage  of  my  nose ; but  all  that  is  nothing,  for  if  there  are  necromancers  that  misuse 
me,  there  are  others  ready  to  defend  me. 

“ Send  me  word  whether  the  steward  that  is  with  thee  had  any  hand  in  the  business  of 

the  Countess  of  Trifaldi,  as  thou  wert  once  of  opinion  ; and  let  me  also  have  an  account  of 

whatever  befalls  thee,  since  the  distance  between  us  is  so  small.  I have  thoughts  of  leaving 
this  idle  life  ere  long,  for  I was  not  born  for  luxury  and  ease. 

“ A business  has  offered  that  I believe  will  make  me  lose  the  duke  and  duchess’s  favour ; 
but,  though  I am  heartily  sorry  for  it,  that  does  not  alter  my  resolution ; for,  after  all,  I owe 
more  to  my  profession  than  to  complaisance,  and,  as  the  saying  is,  Amiais  Plato , sed  magis  arnica 
veritas.  I send  thee  this  scrap  of  Latin,  flattering  myself  that  since  thou  earnest  to  be  a 
governor  thou  mayest  have  learned  something  of  that  language.  Farewell,  and  Heaven  keep 
thee  above  the  pity  of  the  world. 

“ Thy  friend, 

“ Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha.” 

Sancho  gave  great  attention  to  the  letter,  and  it  was  highly  applauded,  both  for  sense 

and  integrity,  by  everybody  that  heard  it.  After  that,  he  rose  from  table,  and,  calling  the 

secretary,  went  without  any  further  delay  and  locked  himself  up  with  him  in  his  chamber  to 
write  an  answer  to  his  master,  Don  Quixote.  He  ordered  the  scribe  to  Set  down  word  for 
word  what  he  dictated,  without  adding  or  diminishing  the  least  thing ; which  being  strictly 
observed,  this  was  the  tenor  of  the  letter  : — 

Sancho  Panza  to  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha. 

“ I am  so  taken  up  with  business  that  I have  not  time  to  scratch  my  head  or  pare  my 
nails,  which  is  the  reason  they  are  so  long — God  help  me  ! I tell  you  this,  dear  master  of  mine, 
that  you  may  not  marvel  why  I have  not  yet  let  you  know  whether  it  goes  well  or  ill 
with  me  in  this  same  government,  where  I am  more  hunger-starved  than  when  you  and  I 
wandered  through  woods  and  wildernesses. 

“ My  lord  duke  wrote  to  me  the  other  day,  to  inform  me  of  some  spies  that  were  got 

into  this  island  to  kill  me ; but  as  yet  I have  discovered  none  but  a certain  doctor,  hired  by 

the  islanders  to  kill  all  the  governors  that  come  near  it.  They  call  him  Dr.  Pedro  Rezio  de 

Anguero,  and  he  was  born  at  Tirteafuera.  His  name  is  enough  to  make  me  fear  he  will  be 

the  death  of  me.  This  same  doctor  says  of  himself  that  he  does  cure  diseases  when  you 

have  them  ; but  when  you  have  them  not,  he  only  pretends  to  keep  them  from  coming.  The 

physic  he  uses  is  fasting  upon  fasting,  till  he  turns  a body  to  a mere  skeleton  ; as  if  to  be 

wasted  to  skin  and  bones  were  not  as  bad  as  a fever.  In  short,  he  starves  me  to  death ; 

so  that  when  I thought,  as  being  a governor,  to  have  my  belly  full  of  good  hot  victuals  and 
89 


706 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


cool  liquor,  and  to  refresh  my  body  in  Holland  sheets,  and  on  a soft  feather  bed,  I am  come 
to  do  penance  like  a nermit ; and,  as  I do  it  unwillingly,  I am  afraid  of  what  will  come  to  me 
at  last. 

“ All  this  while  I have  not  yet  so  much  as  fingered  the  least  penny  of  money,  either  for 
fees,  bribes,  or  anything ; and  how  it  comes  to  be  no  better  with  me  I cannot  for  my  soul 
imagine,  for  I have  heard,  by  the  by,  that  the  governors  who  come  to  this  island  are  wont  to 
have  a very  good  gift,  or,  at  least,  a very  round  sum  lent  them  by  the  town  before  they  enter. 
And  they  say,  too,  that  this  is  the  usual  custom,  not  only  here,  but  in  other  places. 

“ Last  night,  in  going  my  rounds,  I met  with  a mighty  handsome  damsel  in  boy’s  clothes, 
and  a brother  of  hers  in  woman’s  apparel.  My  gentleman-waiter  fell  in  love  with  the  girl,  and 
intends  to  make  her  his  wife,  as  he  says.  As  for  the  youth,  I have  pitched  on  him  to  be 
my  son-in-law.  To-day  we  both  design  to  discourse  the  father,  one  Diego  de  la  Liana,  who 
is  a gentleman,  and  an  old  Christian,  every  inch  of  him. 

“ I visit  the  markets  as  you  advised  me,  and  yesterday  found  one  of  the  hucksters  selling 
hazel  nuts.  She  pretended  they  were  all  new,  but  I found  she  had  mixed  a whole  bushel  of 
old,  empty,  rotten  nuts  among  the  same  quantity  of  new.  With  that  I judged  them  to  be 
given  to  the  hospital-boys,  who  knew  how  to  pick  the  good  from  the  bad,  and  gave  sentence 

against  her  that  she  should  not  come  into  the  market  in  fifteen  days  ; and  people  said  I did 

well.  What  I can  tell  you  is,  that,  if  you  will  believe  the  folks  of  this  town,  there  is  not  a 

more  rascally  sort  of  people  in  the  world  than  these  market-women,  for  they  are  all  a saucy, 

foul-mouthed,  impudent  rabble ; and  I judge  them  to  be  so  by  those  I have  seen  in  other 
places. 

“ I am  mighty  well  pleased  that  my  lady  duchess  has  written  to  my  wife,  Teresa  Panza, 
and  sent  her  the  token  you  mention.  It  shall  go  hard  but  I will  requite  her  kindness  one 
time  or  other.  Pray  give  my  service  to  her,  and  tell  her  from  me  she  has  not  cast  her  gift 
in  a broken  sack,  as  something  more  than  words  shall  show. 

“If  I might  advise  you,  and  had  my  wish,  there  should  be  no  falling  out  between  your 
worship  and  my  lord  and  lady  ; for,  if  you  quarrel  with  them,  it  is  I must  come  by  the  worst 
for  it.  And,  since  you  mind  me  of  being  grateful,  it  will  not  look  well  in  you  not  to  be  so 

to  those  who  have  made  so  much  of  you  at  their  castle. 

“ As  for  your  cat  affair,  I can  make  nothing  of  it,  only  I fancy  you  are  still  haunted  after 
the  old  rate.  You  will  tell  me  more  when  we  meet. 

“ I would  fain  have  sent  you  a token,  but  I do  not  know  what  to  send,  unless  it  were 

some  little  pipes,  which  they  make  here  very  curiously,  and  fix  most  cleverly.  But,  if  I 
stay  in  my  place,  it  shall  go  hard  but  I will  get  something  worth  the  sending  to  you,  be 
it  what  it  will. 

“ If  my  wife  Teresa  Panza  writes  to  me,  pray  pay  the  postage,  and  send  me  the  letter ; 
for  I mightily  long  to  hear  how  it  is  with  her  and  my  house  and  children. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


707 


“ So  Heaven  preserve  you  from  ill-minded  enchanters,  and  send  me  safe  and  sound  out 
of  this  government,  which  I am  much  afraid  of,  as  Dr.  Pedro  Rezio  diets  me. 

“Your  worship’s  servant, 

“ Sancho  Panza,  the  Governor.5’ 

The  secretary  made  up  the  letter,  and  immediately  dispatched  the  express.  Then  those 
who  carried  on  the  plot  against  Sancho  combined  together,  and  consulted  how  to  remove  him 
from  the  government ; and  Sancho  passed  that  afternoon  in  making  several  regulations  for  the 
better  establishment  of  that  which  he  imagined  to  be  an  island.  He  published  an  order  against 
the  higglers  and  forestallers  of  the  markets,  and  another  to  encourage  the  bringers-in  of  wines 
from  any  part  whatever,  provided  the  owners  declared  of  what  growth  they  were,  that  they 
might  be  rated  according  to  their  value  and  goodness  ; and  that  they  who  should  adulterate 
wine  with  water,  or  give  it  a wrong  name,  should  be  punished  with  death.  He  lowered  the 
price  of  all  kinds  of  apparel,  and  particularly  that  of  shoes,  as  thinking  it  exorbitant.  He 
regulated  servants’  wages  that  were  unlimited  before,  and  proportioned  them  to  the  merit  of 
their  service.  He  laid  severe  penalties  upon  all  those  that  should  sing  or  vend  lewd  and 

immoral  songs  and  ballads,  either  in  the  open  day  or  in  the  dusk  of  the  evening  ; and  also 

forbid  all  blind  people  the  singing  about  miracles  in  rhymes,  unless  they  produced  authentic 

testimonies  of  their  truth  ; for  it  appeared  to  him  that  most  of  those  that  were  sung  in  such  a 

manner  were  false,  and  a disparagement  to  the  true. 

He  appointed  a particular  officer  to  inspect  the  poor,  not  to  persecute,  but  to  examine  them, 
and  know  whether  they  were  truly  such  ; for,  under  pretence  of  counterfeit  lameness  and  artificial 
sores,  many  impudently  rob  the  true  poor  of  charity,  to  spend  it  in  riot  and  drunkenness. 

In  short,  he  made  so  many  wholesome  ordinances  that  to  this  day  they  are  observed  in 
that  place,  and  called  “ The  Constitutions  of  the  great  Governor,  Sancho  Panza.” 


CHAPTER  LII. 


A RELATION  OF  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  THE  SECOND  DISCONSOLATE  OR  DISTRESSED  MATRON,  OTHERWISE 

CALLED  DONNA  RODRIGUEZ. 

CID  HAMET  relates  that,  Don  Quixote’s  scratches  being  healed,  he  began  to  think  the 
life  he  led  in  the  castle  not  suitable  to  the  order  of  knight-errantry  which  he  professed ; 
he  resolved,  therefore,  to  take  leave  of  the  duke  and  duchess,  and  set  forwards  for  Saragosa, 
where,  at  the  approaching  tournament,  he  hoped  to  win  the  armour,  the  usual  prize  at  the 
festivals  of  that  kind.  Accordingly,  as  he  sat  at  table  with  the  lord  and  lady  of  the  castle,  he 
began  to  acquaint  them  with  his  design,  when  behold  two  women  entered  the  great  hall,  clad 
in  deep  mourning  from  head  to  foot.  One  of  them,  approaching  Don  Quixote,  threw  herself 
at  his  feet,  where,  lying  prostrate,  and  in  a manner  kissing  them,  she  fetched  such  deep  and 
doleful  sighs,  and  made  such  sorrowful  lamentations,  that  all  those  who  were  by  were  not  a 
little  surprised.  And,  though  the  duke  and  duchess  imagined  it  to  be  some  new  device  of 
their  servants  against  Don  Quixote,  yet,  perceiving  with  what  earnestness  the  woman  sighed 
and  lamented,  they  were  in  doubt  and  knew  not  what  to  think  ; till  the  compassionate  champion, 
raising  her  from  the  ground,  engaged  her  to  lift  up  her  veil  and  discover,  what  they  least 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


709 


expected,  the  face  of  Donna  Rodriguez,  the  duenna  of  the  family ; and  the  other  mourner 

proved  to  be  her  daughter,  whom  the  rich  farmer’s  son  had  deluded.  All  those  that  knew 
them  were  in  great  admiration,  especially  the  duke  and  duchess ; for,  though  they  knew  her 
simplicity  and  indiscretion,  they  did  not  believe  her  so  far  gone  in  madness.  At  last  the 

sorrowful  matron,  addressing  herself  to  the  duke  and  the  duchess,  “ May  it  please  your  graces,” 

said  she,  “ to  permit  me  to  direct  my  discourse  to  this  knight,  for  it  concerns  me  to  get  out 

of  an  unlucky  business  into  which  the  impudence  of  a treacherous  villain  has  brought  us.” 
With  that  the  duke  gave  her  leave  to  say  what  she  would ; then,  applying  herself  to  Don 
Quixote,  “It  is  not  long,”  said  she,  “valorous  knight,  since  I gave  your  worship  an  account 
how  basely  and  treacherously  a young  graceless  farmer  had  used  my  dear  child,  the  poor, 

undone  creature  here  present ; and  you  then  promised  me  to  stand  up  for  her  and  see  her 

righted  ; and  now  I understand  you  are  about  to  leave  this  castle  in  quest  of  the  good  adventures 
Heaven  shall  send  you.  And,  therefore,  before  you  are  gone  nobody  knows  whither,  I have 
this  boon  to  beg  of  your  worship,  that  you  would  do  so  much  as  challenge  this  sturdy  clown, 
and  make  him  marry,  my  daughter,  according  to  his  promise.  For,  as  for  my  lord  duke,  it 
is  a folly  to  think  he  will  ever  see  me  righted,  for  the  reason  I told  you  in  private.  And  so 
Heaven  preserve  your  worship,  and  still  be  our  defence.” 

“Worthy  matron,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  with  a great  deal  of  gravity  and  solemn  form, 
“ moderate  your  tears,  or,  to  speak  more  properly,  dry  them  up,  and  spare  your  sighs,  for  I take 

upon  me  to  see  your  daughter’s  wrongs  redressed  ; though  she  had  done  much  better  had  not 

her  too  great  credulity  made  her  trust  the  protestations  of  lovers,  which  generally  are  readily 
made,  but  most  uneasily  performed.  Therefore,  with  my  lord  duke’s  permission,  I will  instantly 
depart  to  find  out  this  ungracious  wretch ; and,  as  soon  as  he  is  found,  I will  challenge  him, 
and  kill  him,  if  he  persists  in  his  obstinacy  ; for  the  chief  end  of  my  profession  is  to  pardon  the 
submissive  and  to  chastise  the  stubborn,  to  relieve  the  miserable  and  destroy  the  cruel.” 

“ Sir  Knight,”  said  the  duke,  “ you  need  not  give  yourself  the  trouble  of  seeking  the  fellow 
of  whom  that  good  matron  complains  ; nor  need  you  ask  me  leave  to  challenge  him  ; for  I 
already  engage  that  he  shall  meet  you  in  person  to  answer  it  here  in  this  castle,  where  safe 
lists  shall  be  set  up  for  you  both,  observing  all  the  laws  of  arms  that  ought  to  be  kept  in 
affairs  of  this  kind,  and  doing  each  party  justice,  as  all  princes  ought  to  do  that  admit  of 
single  combats  within  their  territories.” 

“Upon  that  assurance,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “with  your  grace’s  leave,  I,  for  this  time,  waive 
my  punctilio  of  gentility,  and,  debasing  myself  to  the  meanness  of  the  offender,  qualify  him  to 
measure  lances  with  me  ; and  so,  let  him  be  absent  or  present,  I challenge  and  defy  him,  as  a 
villain  that  has  deluded  this  poor  creature  ; and  he  shall  either  perform  his  promise  of  making 
her  his  lawful  wife,  or  die  in  the  contest.” 

With  that,  pulling  off  his  glove,  he  flung  it  down  into  the  middle  of  the  hall,  and  the  duke 
took  it  up,  declaring,  as  he  already  had  done,  that  he  accepted  the  challenge  in  the  name  of 


yio 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


his  vassal  ; fixing  the  time  for  combat  to  be  six  days  after,  and  the  place  to  be  the  castle  court ; 
the  arms  to  be  such  as  are  usual  among  knights,  as  lance,  shield,  armour  of  proof,  and  all 
other  pieces,  without  fraud,  advantage,  or  enchantment,  after  search  made  by  the  judges  of 
the  field. 

“ But,  in  the  first  place,”  added  the  duke,  “ it  is  requisite  that  these  persons  commit  the 
justice  of  their  cause  into  the  hands  of  their  champion,  for  otherwise  there  will  be  nothing  done, 
and  the  challenge  is  void,  in  course.” 

“ I do,”  answered  the  matron. 

“ And  so  do  I,”  added  the  daughter,  all  ashamed,  blubbering,  and  in  a crying  tone. 

The  preliminaries  being  adjusted,  and  the  duke  having  resolved  with  himself  what  to  do 
in  the  matter,  the  mourning  petitioners  went  away,  and  the  duchess  ordered  they  should  no 
longer  be  looked  on  as  her  domestics,  but  as  ladies-errants,  that  came  to  demand  justice  in 
her  castle ; and,  accordingly,  there  was  a peculiar  apartment  appointed  for  them,  where  they 
were  served  as  strangers,  to  the  amazement  of  the  other  servants,  who  could  not  imagine 
what  would  be  the  end  of  Donna  Rodriguez  and  her  forsaken  daughter’s  ridiculous,  confident 
undertaking. 

Presently,  after  this,  to  complete  their  mir.th,  and,  as  it  were,  for  the  last  course,  in  came  the 
page  that  had  carried  the  letters  and  the  presents  to  Teresa  Panza.  The  duke  and  duchess 
were  overjoyed  to  see  him  returned,  having  a great  desire  to  know  the  success  of  his  journey. 
They  inquired  of  him  accordingly ; but  he  told  them  that  the  account  he  had  to  give  them  could 
not  well  be  delivered  in  public,  nor  in  few  words,  and  therefore  begged  their  graces  would  be 
pleased  to  take  it  in  private,  and,  in  the  meantime,  entertain  themselves  with  those  letters.  With 
that,  taking  out  two,  he  delivered  them  to  her  grace.  The  superscription  of  the  one  was,  “ These 
for  my  Lady  Duchess,  of  I do  not  know  what  place;”  and  the  direction  of  the  other  thus,  “To 
my  Husband,  Sancho  Panza,  Governor  of  the  Island  of  Barataria,  whom  Heaven  prosper  as  many 
or  more  years  than  me.” 

The  duchess  sat  upon  thorns  till  she  had  read  her  letter  ; so,  having  opened  it,  and  ran  it 
over  to  herself,  finding  there  was  nothing  of  secrecy  in  it,  she  read  it  out  aloud,  that  the  whole 
company  might  hear  what  follows  : — 

Teresa  Panzas  Letter  to  the  Duchess. 

“ My  Lady, — The  letter  your  honour  sent  me  pleased  me  hugeously ; for,  troth,  it  is  what 
I heartily  longed  for.  The  string  of  coral  is  a good  thing,  and  my  husband’s  hunting-suit  may 
come  up  to  it.  All  our  town  takes  it  mightily  kindly,  and  is  very  glad  that  your  honour  has 
made  my  spouse  a governor,  though  nobody  will  believe  it,  especially  our  curate,  Master  Nicholas, 
the  barber,  and  Samson  Carrasco,  the  bachelor.  But  what  care  I whether  they  do  or  no  ? So  it 
be  true,  as  it  is,  let  every  one  have  their  saying.  Though  (it  is  a folly  to  lie)  I had  not  believed 
it  neither,  but  for  the  coral  and  the  suit ; for  everybody  here  takes  my  husband  to  be  a dolt,  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


7 ii 


cannot,  for  the  blood  of  them,  imagine  what  he  can  be  fit  to  govern,  unless  it  be  a herd  of 
goats.  Well,  Heaven  be  his  guide,  and  speed  him  as  he  sees  best  for  his  children ! As  for  me, 
my  dear  lady,  I am  resolved,  with  your  good  liking,  to  make  hay  while  the  sun  shines,  and  go 
to  court,  to  loll  it  along  in  a coach,  and  make  a world  of  my  back-friends,  that  envy  me  already, 
stare  their  eyes  out.  And,  therefore,  good  your  honour,  pray  bid  my  husband  send  me  store  of 
money,  for  I believe  it  is  dear  living  at  court ; one  can  have  but  little  bread  there  for  sixpence, 
and  a pound  of  flesh  is  worth  thirty  maravedis,  which  would  make  one  stand  amazed.  And  if 
he  is  not  for  my  coming,  let  him  send  me  word  in  time,  for  my  feet  itch  to  be  jogging  ; for  my 
gossips  and  neighbours  tell  me  that  if  I and  my  daughter  go  about  the  court  as  we  should,  spruce 
and  fine,  and  at  a tearing  rate,  my  husband  will  be  better  known  by  me  than  I by  him ; for  many 
cannot  choose  but  ask,  ‘What  ladies  are  these  in  the  coach?’  with  that,  one  of  my  servants 
answers,  ‘The  wife  and  daughter  of  Sancho  Panza,  governor  of  the  island  of  Barataria;’  and  thus 
shall  my  husband  be  known,  and  I honoured,  far  and  near ; and  so  have  at  all  ; Rome  has 
everything. 

“You  cannot  think  how  I am  troubled  that  we  have  gathered  no  acorns  hereaway  this  year; 
however,  I send  your  highness  about  half  a peck,  which  I have  culled  one  by  one ; I went  to  the 
mountains  on  purpose,  and  got  the  biggest  I could  find.  I wish  they  had  been  as  big  as 
ostrich  eggs. 

“ Pray  let  not  your  pomposity  forget  to  write  to  me,  and  I will  be  sure  to  send  you  an 
answer,  and  let  you  know  how  I do,  and  send  you  all  the  news  in  our  village,  where  J am 
waiting,  and  praying  the  Lord  to  preserve  your  highness,  and  not  to  forget  me.  My  daughter 
Sanchica,  and  my  son,  kiss  your  worship’s  hands. 

“ She  that  wishes  rather  to  see  you  than  write  to  you. 

“Your  servant, 

“ Teresa  PanzaT 

This  letter  was  very  entertaining  to  all  the  company,  especially  to  the  duke  and  duchess  , 
insomuch  that  her  grace  asked  Don  Quixote  whether  it  would  be  amiss  to  open  the  governor’s 
letter,  which  she  imagined  was  a very  good  one.  The  knight  told  her  that,  to  satisfy  her  curiosity, 
he  would  open  it,  which  being  done,  he  found  what  follows  : — 

Teresa  Panza  s Letter  to  her  Husband , Sancho  Panza. 

“ I received  thy  letter,  dear  honey  Sancho,  and  I vow  and  swear  to  thee,  as  I am  a Catholic 
Christian,  I was  within  two  fingers’  breadth  of  running  mad  for  joy.  Look  you,  my  chuck, 
when  I heard  thou  wert  made  a governor,  I was  so  transported,  I had  like  to  have  fallen  down 
dead  with  mere  gladness ; for  thou  knowest  sudden  joy  is  said  to  kill  as  soon  as  great  sorrow. 
As  for  thy  daughter  Sanchica,  she  was  not  able  to  do  anything  for  some  days,  for  very 
pleasure.  I had  the  suit  thou  sentest  me  before  my  eyes,  and  the  lady  duchess’s  corals  about 


712 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


my  neck,  held  the  letter  in  my  hands,  and  had  him  that  brought  them  standing  by  me,  and  for 
all  that  I thought  what  I saw  and  felt  was  but  a dream.  For  who  could  have  thought  a 
goatherd  should  ever  come  to  be  governor  of  islands  ? But  what  said  my  mother  ? * Who  a 

great  deal  would  see,  a great  while  must  live.’  I speak  this  because,  if  I live  longer,  I mean 
to  see  more ; for  l shall  never  be  at  rest  till  I see  thee  a farmer  or  receiver  of  the  customs ; 
for  though  they  be  officers  that  send  many  to  ruin,  for  all  that,  they  bring  grist  to  the  mill. 
My  lady  duchess  will  tell  thee  how  I long  to  go  to  court.  Pray,  think  of  it,  and  let  me  know 

thy  mind ; for  I mean  to  credit  thee  there  by  going  in  a coach. 

“ Neither  the  curate,  the  barber,  the  bachelor,  nor  the  sexton  will  believe  thou  art  a 
governor;  but  say  it  is  all  juggling  or  enchantment,  as  all  thy  master  Don  Quixote’s  concerns 
used  to  be  ; and  Samson  threatens  to  find  thee  out,  and  put  this  maggot  of  a government 
out  of  thy  pate,  and  Don  Quixote’s  madness  out  of  his  coxcomb.  For  my  part,  I do  but 
laugh  at  them,  and  look  upon  my  string  of  coral,  and  contrive  how  to  fit  up  the  suit  thou 
sentest  me  into  a gown  for  thy  daughter. 

“ I sent  my  lady  the  duchess  some  acorns  ; I would  they  were  beaten  gold.  I pr’ythee 
send  me  some  strings  of  pearl,  if  they  be  in  fashion  in  thy  island. 

“ The  news  here  is  that  Berrueca  has  married  her  daughter  to  a sorry  painter  that  came 

hither  pretending  to  paint  anything.  The  township  sent  him  to  paint  the  king’s  arms  over  the 

town  hall.  He  asked  two  ducats  for  the  job,  which  they  paid  him  : so  he  fell  to  work,  and  was 

eight  days  a-daubing,  but  could  make  nothing  of  it,  and  said  he  could  not  hit  upon  such  kind  of 

work,  and  so  gave  them  their  money  again.  Yet,  for  all  this,  he  married  with  the  name  of 

a good  workman.  The  truth  is,  he  has  left  his  pencil  upon  it,  and  taken  the  spade,  and  goes 
to  the  field  like  a gentleman.  Pedro  de  Lobo’s  son  has  taken  orders,  and  shaved  his  crown, 
meaning  to  be  a priest.  Minguilla,  Mingo  Salvato’s  granddaughter,  heard  of  it,  and  sues  him 
upon  a promise  of  marriage.  We  have  no  olives  this  year,  nor  is  there  a drop  of  vinegar  to 
be  got  for  love  or  money.  Sanchica  makes  bone-lace,  and  gets  her  three-halfpence  a day 
clear,  which  she  saves  in  a box  with  a slit,  to  go  towards  buying  household  stuff.  But  now 
she  is  a governor’s  daughter  she  has  no  need  to  work,  for  thou  wilt  give  her  a portion.  The 
fountain  in  the  market  is  dried  up.  A thunderbolt  lately  fell  upon  the  pillory : there  may 
they  all  light.  I expect  thy  answer  to  this,  and  thy  resolution  concerning  my  going  to  court. 
So  Heaven  send  thee  long  to  live,  longer  than  myself,  or  rather  as  long  ; for  I would  not 
willingly  leave  thee  behind  me  in  this  world. 

“ Thy  Wife, 

“ Teresa  Panza.” 

These  letters  were  admired,  and  caused  a great  deal  of  laughter  and  diversion  ; and,  to 
complete  the  mirth,  at  the  same  time  the  express  returned  that  brought  Sancho’s  answer  to 
Don  Quixote,  which  was  likewise  publicly  read,  and  startled  all  the  hearers,  who  took  the 
governor  for  a fool.  Afterwards  the  duchess  withdrew  to  know  of  the  page  what  he  had  to 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


713 

relate  of  Sancho’s  village  ; of  which  he  gave  her  a full  account,  without  omitting  the  least  * 
particular.  He  also  brought  her  the  acorns,  and  a cheese  which  Teresa  had  given  him  for 
a very  good  one,  and  better  than  those  of  Troncheon,  which  the  duchess  gratefully  accepted 
Now  let  us  leave  her,  to  tell  the  end  of  the  government  of  great  Sancho  Panza,  the  flower 
and  mirror  of  all  island  governors. 


90 


CHAPTER  LIII. 

THE  TOILSOME  END  AND  CONCLUSION  OF  SANCHO  PANZA’S  GOVERNMENT. 

TO  think  the  affairs  of  this  life  are  always  to  remain  in  the  same  state  is  an  erroneous 
fancy.  The  face  of  things  rather  seems  continually  to  change  and  roll  with  circular 
motion  ; summer  succeeds  the  spring,  autumn  the  summer,  winter  the  autumn,  and  then  spring 
again.  So  time  proceeds  in  this  perpetual  round  ; only  the  life  of  man  is  ever  hastening  to 
its  end,  swifter  than  time  itself,  without  hopes  to  be  renewed,  unless  in  the  next,  that  is 
unlimited  and  infinite.  This  says  Cid  Hamet,  the  Mahometan  philosopher.  For  even  by  the 
light  of  Nature,  and  without  that  of  faith,  many  have  discovered  the  swiftness  and  instability 
of  this  present  being,  and  the  duration  of  the  eternal  life  which  is  expected.  But  this  moral 
reflection  of  our  author  is  not  here  to  be  supposed  as  meant  by  him  in  its  full  extent ; for  he 
intended  it  only  to  show  the  uncertainty  of  Sancho’s  fortune,  how  soon  it  vanished  like  a 
dream,  and  how  from  his  high  preferment  he  returned  to  his  former  low  station. 

It  was  now  but  the  seventh  night,  after  so  many  days  of  his  government,  when  the 
careful  governor  had  betaken  himself  to  his  repose,  sated  not  with  bread  and  wine,  but  cloyed 
with  hearing  causes,  pronouncing  sentences,  making  statutes,  and  putting  out  orders  and 
proclamations.  Scarce  was  sleep,  in  spite  of  wakeful  hunger,  beginning  to  close  his  eyes,  when 
of  a sudden  he  heard  a great  noise  of  bells,  and  most  dreadful  outcries,  as  if  the  whole  island 
had  been  sinking.  Presently  he  started,  and  sat  up  in  bed,  and  listened  with  great  attention, 
to  try  if  he  could  learn  how  far  this  uproar  might  concern  him.  But,  while  he  was  thus  hearkening 


paga 

' ’^am 

PEHN 

WJwk 

“‘March!*  quoth  Sancho.  ‘How  do  vou  think  I am  able  to  do  it?’” — /.  716. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


716 

in  the  dark,  a great  number  of  drums  and  trumpets  were  heard,  and  that  sound  being  added 
to  the  noise  of  the  bells  and  the  cries,  gave  so  dreadful  an  alarm  that  his  fear  and  terror 
increased,  and  he  was  in  a sad  consternation.  Up  he  leaped  out  of  his  bed,  and  put  on  his 
slippers,  the  ground  being  damp,  and  without  anything  else  on  but  his  shirt,  ran  and  opened 

his  chamber  door,  and  saw  about  twenty  men  come  running  along  the  galleries  with  lighted 

links  in  one  hand,  and  drawn  swords  in  the  other,  all  crying  out,  “ Arm,  my  lord  governor,  arm  ! 
a world  of  enemies  are  got  into  the  island,  and  we  are  undone,  unless  your  valour  and  conduct 

relieve  us.”  Thus  bawling  and  running  with  great  fury  and  disorder,  they  got  to  the  door 

where  Sancho  stood  quite  scared  out  of  his  senses.  “Arm,  arm  this  moment,  my  lord!”  cried 
one  of  them,  “if  you  have  not  a mind  to  be  lost  with  the  whole  island.” 

“What  would  you  have  me  arm  for?”  quoth  Sancho;  “do  I know  anything  of  arms  or 
fighting,  think  you  ? Why  do  you  not  rather  send  for  Don  Quixote,  my  master  ? he  will 
dispatch  your  enemies  in  a trice.  Alas  ! as  I am  a sinner  to  Heaven,  I understand  nothing  of 
this  hasty  service.” 

“For  shame,  my  lord  governor !”  said  another.  “What  a faint-heartedness  is  this?  See, 
we  bring  you  here  arms  offensive  and  defensive ! Arm  yourself,  and  march  to  the  market-place ! 
Be  our  leader  and  captain,  as  you  ought,  and  show  yourself  a governor!” 

“Why,  then,  arm  me,  and  good  luck  attend  me,”  quoth  Sancho. 

With  that  they  brought  him  two  large  shields  which  they  had  provided,  and,  without 
letting  him  put  on  his  other  clothes,  clapped  them  over  his  shirt,  and  tied  the  one  behind 
upon  his  back,  and  the  other  before  upon  his  breast,  having  got  his  arms  through  some  holes 
made  on  purpose.  Now,  the  shields  being  fastened  to  his  body  as  hard  as  cords  could  bind 
them,  the  poor  governor  was  cased  up  and  immured  as  straight  as  an  arrow,  without  being  able 
so  much  as  to  bend  his  knees,  or  stir  a step.  Then,  having  put  a lance  into  his  hand  for 
him  to  lean  upon,  and  keep  himself  up,  they  desired  him  to  march,  and  lead  them  on,  and  put 
life  into  them  all,  telling  him  that  they  did  not  doubt  of  victory  since  they  had  him  for  their 
commander. 

“ March  1”  quoth  Sancho,  “how  do  you  think  I am  able  to  do  it,  squeezed  as  I am? 
These  boards  stick  so  plaguy  close  to  me,  I cannot  so  much  as  bend  the  joints  of  my  knees ; 
you  must  even  carry  me  in  your  arms,  and  lay  me  across  or  set  me  upright  before  some 
passage,  and  1 will  make  good  that  spot  of  ground,  either  with  this  lance  or  my  body.” 

“ Fie,  my  lord  governor  !”  said  another;  “it  is  more  your  fear  than  your  armour  that  stiffens 

your  legs,  and  hinders  you  from  moving.  Move,  move,  march  on ! it  is  high  time ; the  enemy 

grows  stronger,  and  the  danger  presses.” 

The  poor  governor,  thus  urged  and  upbraided,  endeavoured  to  go  forwards,  but  the  first 
motion  he  made  threw  him  to  the  ground  at  the  full  length,  so  heavily,  that  he  gave  over  all 

his  bones  for  broken  ; and  there  he  lay,  like  a huge  tortoise  in  his  shell,  or  a flitch  of  bacon 

clapped  between  two  boards,  or  like  a boat  overturned  upon  a flat  with  the  keel  upwards. 


friend  ; thou  faithful  companion  and  fellow-sharer  in  my  travels  and  miseries 


“‘Come  hither, 


7iS 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Nor  had  those  drolling  companions  the  least  compassion  upon  him  as  he  lay;  quite  contrary, 
having  put  out  their  lights,  they  made  a terrible  noise,  and  clattered  with  their  swords,  and 
trampled  too  and  again  upon  the  poor  governor’s  body,  and  laid  on  furiously  with  their  swords 
upon  his  shields,  insomuch  that,  if  he  had  not  shrunk  his  head  into  them  for  shelter,  he  had 
been  in  a woful  condition.  Squeezed  up  in  his  narrow  shell,  he  was  in  a grievous  fright 
and  a terrible  sweat,  praying  from  the  bottom  of  his  heart  for  deliverance  from  the  cursed 
trade  of  governing  islands.  Some  kicked  him,  some  stumbled  and  fell  upon  him,  and  one 
among  the  rest  jumped  full  upon  him,  and  there  stood  for  some  time  as  on  a watch-tower, 
like  a general  encouraging  his  soldiers  and  giving  orders,  crying  out,  “ There,  boys,  there  ! the 
enemies  charge  most  on  that  side ; make  good  that  breach,  secure  that  gate,  down  with  those 
scaling  ladders,  fetch  fire-balls,  more  grenades,  burning  pitch,  rosin,  and  kettles  of  scalding  oil. 
Intrench  yourselves,  get  beds,  quilts,  cushions,  and  barricade  the  streets;”  in  short,  he  called  for 
all  the  instruments  of  death,  and  all  the  engines  used  for  the  defence  of  a city  that  is  besieged 
and  stormed.  Sancho  lay  snug,  though  sadly  bruised  ; and  while  he  endured  all  quietly,  “ Oh, 
that  it  would  please  the  Lord,”  quoth  he  to  himself,  “ that  this  island  were  but  taken,  or  that 
I were  fairly  dead,  or  out  of  this  peck  of  troubles  ! ” At  last  Heaven  heard  his  prayers  ; and,  when 
he  least  expected  it,  he  heard  them  cry,  “Victory!  victory!  the  enemy  is  routed!  Now,,  my 

lord  governor,  rise ; come  and  enjoy  the  fruits  of  conquest,  and  divide  the  spoils  taken  from 

the  enemy  by  the  valour  of  your  invincible  arms.” 

“ Help  me  up,”  cried  poor  Sancho,  in  a doleful  tone;  and  when  they  had  set  him  on  his 
legs,  “ Let  all  the  enemy  I have  routed,”  quoth  he,  “ be  nailed  to  my  forehead.  I will  divide 
no  spoils  of  enemies ; but,  if  I have  one  friend  here,  I only  beg  he  would  give  me  a draught 
of  wine  to  comfort  me,  and  help  to  dry  up  the  sweat  that  I am  in,  for  I am  all  over  water.” 

Thereupon  they  wiped  him,  gave  him  wine,  and  took  off  his  shields.  After  that,  as  he  sat 
upon  his  bed,  what  with  his  fright,  and  what  with  the  toil  he  had  endured,  he  fell  into  a swoon,, 
insomuch  that  those  who  acted  this  scene  began  to  repent  they  had  carried  it  so  far.  But  Sancho, 
recovering  from  his  fit  in  a little  time,  they  also  recovered  from  their  uneasiness.  Being  come 
to  himself,  he  asked  what  o’clock  it  was.  They  answered  it  was  now  break  of  day.  He 
said  nothing,  but  without  any  word,  began  to  put  on  his  clothes.  While  this  was  doing,  and 
he  continued  seriously  silent,  all  the  eyes  of  the  company  were  fixed  upon  him,  wondering 
what  could  be  the  meaning  of  his  being  in  such  haste  to  put  on  his  clothes..  At  last  he 
made  an  end  of  dressing  himself,  and,  creeping  along  softly  (for  he  was  too  much  bruised  to 
go  along  very  fast),  he  got  to  the  stable,  followed  by  all  the  company,  and,  coming  to  Dapple, 

he  embraced  the  quiet  animal,  gave  him  a loving  kiss  on  the  forehead,  and,  with  tears  in  his 

eyes,  “ Come  hither,”  said  he,  “ my  friend ; thou  faithful  companion  and  fellow-sharer  in  my 
travels  and  miseries  : when  thee  and  I consorted  together,  and  all  my  cares  were  but  to  mend 
thy  furniture  and  feed  thy  little  carcass,  then  happy  were  my  days,  my  months,  and  years.  But 
since  I forsook  thee,  and  clambered  up  the  towers  of  ambition  and  pride,  a thousand  woes,, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


7l9 

a thousand  torments,  and  four  thousand  tribulations  have  haunted  and  worried  my  soul.”  While 
he  was  talking  thus,  he  fitted  on  his  pack-saddle,  nobody  offering  to  say  anything  to  him.  This 
done,  with  a great  deal  of  difficulty  he  mounted  his  ass,  and  then  addressing  himself  to  the 
steward,  the  secretary,  the  gentleman-waiter,  and  Doctor  Pedro  Rezio,  and  many  others  that  stood 
by,  “ Make  way,  gentlemen,”  said  he,  “ and  let  me  return  to  my  former  liberty.  Let  me  go, 
that  I may  seek  my  old  course  of  life,  and  rise  again  from  that  death  which  buries  me  here 
alive.  I was  not  born  to  be  a governor,  nor  to  defend  islands  nor  cities  from  enemies  that 
break  in  upon  them.  I know  better  what  belongs  to  ploughing,  delving,  pruning,  and  planting 
of  vineyards,  than  how  to  make  laws,  and  defend  countries  and  kingdoms.  ‘ St.  Peter  is  very  well 
at  Rome;’  which  is  as  much  as  to  say,  let  every  one  stick  to  the  calling  he  was  born  to.  A 
spade  does  better  in  my  hand  than  a governor’s  truncheon,  and  I had  rather  fill  my  belly  with 
a mess  of  plain  porridge,  than  lie  at  the  mercy  of  a coxcombly  physic-monger,  that  starves  me 
to  death.  I had  rather  solace  myself  under  the  shade  of  an  oak  in  summer,  and  wrap  up  my 
body  in  a double  sheep-skin  in  the  winter,  at  my  liberty,  than  lay  me  down  with  the  slavery 
of  a government,  in  fine  Holland  sheets,  and  case  my  hide  in  furs  and  richest  sables.  Heaven 
be  with  you,  gentlefolks,  and  pray  tell  my  lord  duke  from  me,  that  naked  I was  born,  and 
naked  I am  at  present.  I have  neither  won  nor  lost,  which  is  as  much  as  to  say,  without  a 
penny  I came  to  this  government,  and  without  a penny  I leave  it — quite  contrary  to  what 
other  governors  of  islands  used  to  do,  when  they  leave  them.  Clear  the  way,  then,  I beseech 
you,  and  let  me  pass ; I must  get  myself  wrapped  up  all  over  in  cerecloth,  for  I do  not  think 
I have  a sound  rib  left,  thanks  to  the  enemies  that  have  walked  over  me  all  night  long.” 

“ This  must  not  be,  my  lord  governor,”  said  Dr.  Rezio,  “ for  I will  give  your  honour  a 
balsamic  drink,  that  is  a specific  against  falls,  dislocations,  contusions,  and  all  manner  of  bruises, 
and  that  will  presently  restore  you  to  your  former  health  and  strength  ; and  then,  for  your  diet, 
1 promise  to  take  a new  course  with  you  and  to  let  you  eat  abundantly  of  whatsoever  you 
please.” 

“ It  is  too  late,  Mr.  Doctor,”  answered  Sancho  ; “ you  should  as  soon  make  me  turn 
Turk,  as  hinder  me  from  going.  No,  no,  these  tricks  shall  not  pass  upon  me  again; 

you  shall  as  soon  make  me  fly  to  heaven  without  wings,  as  get  me  to  stay  here,  or 
ever  catch  me  nibbling  at  a government  again,  though  it  were  served  up  to  me  in  a 

covered  dish.  I am  of  the  blood  of  the  Panzas,  and  we  are  all  wilful  and  positive.  If  once 
we  cry  odd,  it  shall  be  odd,  in  spite  of  all  mankind,  though  it  be  even.  Go  to,  then ; let 
the  emmet  leave  behind  him,  in  this  stable,  those  wings  that  lifted  him  up  in  the  air,  to  be 
a prey  to  martlets  and  sparrows.  Fair  and  softly.  Let  me  now  tread  again  on  plain  ground; 

though  I may  not  wear  pinked  Cordovan  leather  pumps,  I shall  not  want  a pair  of  sandals 

to  my  feet.  ‘Every  sheep  to  her  mate.’  ‘Let  not  the  cobbler  go  beyond  his  last;’  and  so,  let 
me  go,  for  it  is  late.” 

“ My  lord  governor,”  said  the  steward,  “ though  it  grieves  us  to  part  with  your  honour, 


7 20 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


your  sense  and  Christian  behaviour  engaging  us  to  covet  your  company,  yet  we  would  not 
presume  to  stop  you  against  your  inclination ; but  you  know  that  every  governor,  before  he 
leaves  the  place  he  has  governed,  is  bound  to  give  an  account  of  his  administration.  Be 
pleased,  therefore,  to  do  so  for  the  ten  days  you  have  been  among  us,  and  then  peace  be 
with  you.” 

“No  man  has  power  to  call  me  to  an  account,”  replied  Sancho,  “ unless  it  be  my  lord 
duke’s  appointment.  Now,  to  him  it  is  that  I am  going,  and  to  him  I will  give  a fair  and 

square  account.  And,  indeed,  going  away  so  bare  as  I do,  there  needs  no  greater  signs  that 

I have  governed  like  an  angel.” 

“In  truth,”  said  Dr.  Rezio,  “the  great  Sancho  is  in  the  right;  and  I am  of  opinion 
we  ought  to  let  him  go,  for  certainly  the  duke  will  be  very  glad  to  see  him.” 

Thereupon  they  all  agreed  to  let  him  pass,  offering  first  to  attend  him,  and  supply  him 
with  whatever  he  might  want  in  his  journey,  either  for  entertainment  or  convenience.  Sancho 

told  them  that  all  he  desired  was  a little  corn  for  his  ass,  and  half  a cheese  and  half  a loaf 

for  himself,  having  occasion  for  10  other  provisions  in  so  short  a journey.  With  that  they 
all  embraced  him,  and  he  embraced  them  all,  not  without  tears  in  his  eyes,  leaving  them  in 
admiration  of  the  good  sense  which  he  discovered,  both  in  his  discourse  and  unalterable 
resolution. 


CHAPTER  LIV. 

WHICH  TREATS  OF  MATTERS  THAT  RELATE  TO  THIS  HISTORY,  AND  NO  OTHER. 


THE  duke  and  duchess  resolved  that  Don  Quixote’s  challenge  against  their  vassal  should 
not  be  ineffectual  ; and  the  young  man  being  fled  into  Flanders,  to  avoid  having 
Donna  Rodriguez  to  his  mother-in-law,  they  made  choice  of  a Gascoin  lackey,  named  Tosilos 
to  supply  his  place,  and  gave  him  instructions  how  to  act  his  part.  Two  days  after,  the 
duke  acquainted  Don  Quixote  that  within  four  days  his  antagonist  would  meet  him  in  the 
lists,  armed  at  all  points  like  a knight,  to  maintain  that  the  damsel  lied  through  the  throat, 
and  through  the  beard,  to  say  that  he  had  ever  promised  her  marriage.  Don  Quixote 
was  mightily  pleased  with  this  news,  promising  himself  to  do  wonders  on  this  occasion,  and 
esteeming  it  an  extraordinary  happiness  to  have  such  an  opportunity  to  show,  before  such  noble 
spectators,  how  extensive  were  his  valour  and  his  strength.  Cheered  and  elevated  with  these 
hopes,  he  waited  for  the  end  of  these  four  days,  which  his  eager  impatience  made  him  think 
so  many  ages. 

Well,  now  letting  them  pass,  as  we  do  other  matters,  let  us  a while  attend  Sancho,  who, 
divided  betwixt  joy  and  sorrow,  was  now  on  his  Dapple,  making  the  best  of  his  way  to  his 
master,  whose  company  he  valued  more  than  the  government  of  all  the  islands  in  the  world. 
He  had  not  gone  far  from  his  island,  or  city,  or  town  (or  whatever  you  will  please  to  call  it, 
for  he  never  troubled  himself  to  examine  what  it  was),  before  he  met  upon  the  road  six 

91 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


722 

pilgrims,  with  their  walking  staves,  foreigners  as  they  proved,  and  such  as  used  to  beg  alms, 
singing.  As  they  drew  near  him  they  placed  themselves  in  a row,  and  fell  a-singing  all 
together,  in  their  language,  something  that  Sancho  could  not  understand,  unless  it  was  one 
word,  which  plainly  signified  alms  ; by  which  he  guessed  that  charity  was  the  burden  and 
intent  of  their  song.  Being  exceedingly  charitable,  as  Cid  Hamet  reports  him,  he  opened  his 
wallet,  and,  having  taken  out  the  half  loaf  and  half  cheese,  gave  them  these,  making  signs 
withal  that  he  had  nothing  else  to  give  them.  They  took  the  dole  with  a good  will,  but  yet 
not  satisfied,  they  cried,  “ Guelte,  guelte.” 

“ Good  people,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I do  not  understand  what  you  would  have." 

With  that  one  of  them  pulled  out  a purse  that  was  in  his  bosom,  and  showed  it  to 
Sancho,  by  which  he  understood  that  it  was  money  they  wanted.  But  he,  putting  his  thumb 
to  his  mouth,  and  wagging  his  hand  with  his  four  fingers  upwards,  made  a sign  that  he  had 

not  a cross ; and  so,  clapping  his  heels  to  Dapple’s  sides,  he  began  to  make  way  through  the 

pilgrims  ; but,  at  the  same  time,  one  of  them,  who  had  been  looking  on  him  very  earnestly, 
laid  hold  on  him,  and  throwing  his  arms  about  his  middle,  “ Bless  me ! ” cried  he,  in  very  good 
Spanish,  “ what  do  I see  ? Is  it  possible  ? Do  I hold  in  my  arms  my  dear  friend,  my  good 
neighbour  Sancho  Panza  ? Yes,  sure  it  must  be  he,  for  I am  neither  drunk  nor  dreaming.” 

Sancho,  wondering  to  hear  himself  called  by  his  name,  and  to  see  himself  so  lovingly 
hugged  by  the  pilgrim,  stared  upon  him  without  speaking  a word  ; but,  though  he  looked 
seriously  in  his  face  a good  while,  he  could  not  guess  who  he  was. 

The  pilgrim  observing  his  amazement,  “What!”  said  he,  “friend  Sancho,  do  not  you 
know  your  old  acquaintance,  your  neighbour  Ricote  the  Morisco,  that  kept  a shop  in  your 
town  ? ” 

Then  Sancho  looking  wistfully  on  him  again,  began  to  call  him  to  mind  ; at  last,  he  knew 

him  again  perfectly,  and  clasping  him  about  the  neck,  without  alighting,  “ Ricote,”  cried  he,  “ who 

could  possibly  ever  have  known  thee,  transmogrified  in  this  mumming  dress  ? Pr’ythee,  who 
has  franchified  thee  at  this  rate  ? And  how  durst  thou  offer  to  come  again  into  Spain  ? 
Shouldst  thou  come  to  be  known,  I would  not  be  in  thy  coat  for  all  the  world.” 

“If  thou  dost  not  betray  me,”  said  the  pilgrim,  “ I am  safe  enough,  Sancho  ; for  nobody 
can  know  me  in  this  disguise.  But  let  us  get  out  of  the  road,  and  make  to  yonder  elm-grove; 
my  comrades  and  I have  agreed  to  take  a little  refreshment  there,  and  thou  shalt  dine  with 
us.  They  are  honest  souls,  I will  assure  thee.  There  I shall  have  an  opportunity  to  tell  thee 
how  I have  passed  my  time,  since  I was  forced  to  leave  the  town  in  obedience  to  the  king’s 
edict,  which,  as  thou  knowest,  so  severely  threatens  those  of  our  unfortunate  nation.” 

Sancho  consented,  and  Ricote  having  spoken  to  the  rest  of  the  pilgrims,  they  went  all 
together  to  the  grove,  at  a good  distance  from  the  road.  There  they  laid  by  their  staves,  and, 
taking  off  their  pilgrims’  weeds,  remained  in  jackets ; all  of  them  young  handsome  fellows,  except 
Ricote,  who  was  somewhat  stricken  in  years.  Every  one  carried  his  wallet,  which  seemed 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


723 

well  furnished,  at  least  with  savoury  and  high-seasoned  bits,  the  provocative  to  the  turning 
;down  good  liquor.  They  sat  down  on  the  ground,  and  making  the  green  grass  their  table- 
cloth, presently  there  was  a comfortable  appearance  of  bread,  salt,  knives,  nuts,  cheese,  and 
some  bacon  bones,  on  which  there  were  still  some  good  pickings  left,  or  which  at  least  might 
be  sucked.  They  also  had  a kind  of  black  meat  called  caviar , made  of  the  roes  of  fish,  a 
certain  charm  to  keep  thirst  awake.  They  also  had  a good  store  of  olives,  though  none  of  the 
moistest  ; but  the  chief  glory  of  the  feast  was  six  leathern  bottles  of  wine,  every  pilgrim 
exhibiting  one  for  his  share ; even  honest  Ricote  himself  was  now  transformed  from  a Morisco 
to  a German,  and  clubbed  his  bottle,  his  quota  making  as  good  a figure  as  the  rest  They 
began  to  eat  like  men  that  liked  mighty  well  their  savoury  fare ; and  as  it  was  very  relishing, 
they  went  leisurely  to  work,  to  continue  the  longer,  taking  but  a little  of  every  one  at  a time 
on  the  point  of  a knife.  Then  all  at  once  they  lifted  up  their  arms,  and  applying  their  own 
mouths  to  the  mouths  of  the  bottles,  and  turning  up  their  bottoms  in  the  air,  with  their  eyes 
fixed  on  heaven,  like  men  in  an  ecstacy,  they  remained  in  that  posture  a good  while,  transfusing 
the  blood  and  spirit  of  the  vessels  into  their  stomachs,  and  shaking  their  heads,  as  in  rapture, 
to  express  the  pleasure  they  received.  Sancho  admired  all  this  extremely ; he  could  not  find 
the  least  fault  with  it ; quite  contrary,  he  was  for  making  good  the  old  proverb,  “ When  thou 
art  at  Rome,  do  as  they  do  at  Rome ; ” so  he  desired  Ricote  to  lend  him  his  bottle,  and  taking 
his  aim  as  well  as  the  rest,  and  with  no  less  satisfaction,  showed  them  he  wanted  neither  method 
nor  breath.  Four  times  they  caressed  the  bottles  in  that  manner,  but  there  was  no  doing  it 
the  fifth,  for  they  were  quite  exhausted,  and  the  life  and  soul  of  them  departed,  which  turned 
their  mirth  into  sorrow.  But  while  the  wine  lasted  all  was  well.  Now  and  then'  one  or  other 
of  the  pilgrims  would  take  Sancho  by  the  right  hand,  Spaniard  and  German  all  one  now,  and 
cried,  “ Bon  campagno  ” 

“ Well  said,  i’  faith,”  answered  Sancho ; “ bon  campagno , perdie .”  And  then  he  would  burst 
out  a-laughing  for  half  an  hour  together,  without  the  least  concern  for  all  his  late  misfortunes  or 
the  loss  of  his  government ; for  anxieties  use  to  have  but  little  power  over  the  time  that  men 
spend  in  eating  or  drinking.  In  short,  as  their  bellies  were  full,  their  bones  desired  to  be  at 
rest,  and  so  five  of  them  dropped  asleep ; only  Sancho  and  Ricote,  who  had  indeed  eaten  more, 
but  drank  less,  remained  awake,  and  removed  under  the  covert  of  a beech  at  a small  distance, 
where,  while  the  others  slept,  Ricote,  in  good  Spanish,  spoke  to  Sancho  to  this  purpose  : — 

“ Thou  well  knowest,  friend  Sancho  Panza,  how  the  late  edict,  that  enjoined  all  those  of 
our  nation  to  depart  the  kingdom,  alarmed  us  all ; at  least,  me  it  did ; insomuch,  that  the 
time  limited  for  our  going  was  not  yet  expired,  but  I thought  the  law  was  ready  to  be 
executed  upon  me  and  my  children.  Accordingly,  I resolved  to  provide  betimes  for  their 
security  and  mine,  as  a man  does  that  knows  his  habitation  will  be  taken  away  from  him,  and 
so  secures  another  before  he  is  obliged  to  remove.  So  I left  our  town  by  myself,  and  went  to 
seek  some  place  beforehand,  where  I might  convey  my  family,  without  exposing  myself  to  th? 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHa. 


T2  + 

inconvenience  of  a hurry,  like  the  rest  that  went ; for  the  wisest  among  us  were  justly  appre- 
hensive that  the  proclamations  issued  out  for  the  banishment  of  our  Moorish  race  were  not 
only  threats,  as  some  flattered  themselves,  but  would  certainly  take  effect  at  the  expiration  of 
the  limited  time.  1 was  the  rather  inclined  to  believe  this,  being  conscious  that  our  people  had 
very  dangerous  designs  ; so  that  I could  not  but  think  that  the  king  was  inspired  from  Heaven 
to  take  so  brave  a resolution,  and  expel  those  snakes  out  of  the  bosom  of  the  kingdom  : not 
that  we  were  all  guilty,  for  there  were  some  sound  and  real  Christians  among  us  ; but  their 
number  was  so  small,  that  they  could  not  be  opposed  to  those  that  were  otherwise,  and  it  was 
not  safe  to  keep  enemies  within  doors.  In  short,  it  was  necessary  we  should  be  banished;  but 
though  some  might  think  it  a mild  and  pleasant  fate,  to  us  it  seems  the  most  dreadful  thing 
that  could  befall  us.  Wherever  we  are,  we  bemoan  with  tears  our  banishment  from  Spain ; for, 
after  all,  there  we  were  born,  and  it  is  our  native  country.  We  find  nowhere  the  entertainment 
our  misfortune  requires  ; and  even  in  Barbary,  and  all  other  parts  of  Africa,  where  we  expected 
to  have  met  with  the  best  reception  and  relief,  we  find  the  greatest  inhumanity,  and  the  worst 
usage.  We  did  not  know  our  happiness  till  we  had  lost  it ; and  the  desire  which  most  of  us 
have  to  return  to  Spain  is  such,  that  the  greatest  part  of  those  that  speak  the  tongue  as  I do, 
who  are  many,  come  back  hither,  and  leave  their  wives  and  children  there  in  a forlorn  condition, 
so  strong  is  their  love  for  their  native  place  ; and  now  I know  by  experience  the  truth  of  the 
saying,  ‘ Sweet  is  the  love  of  one’s  own  country.’  For  my  part,  having  left  our  town,  1 went 
into  France,  and  though  I was  very  well  received  there,  yet  I had  a mind  to  see  other  countries; 
and  so  passing  through  it,  I travelled  into  Italy,  and  from  thence  into  Germany,  where  methought 
one  might  live  with  more  freedom,  the  inhabitants  being  a good-humoured,  sociable  people,  that 
love  to  live  easy  with  one  another,  and  everybody  follows  his  own  way  ; for  there  is  liberty  of 
conscience  allowed  in  the  greatest  part  of  the  country.  There,  after  I had  taken  a dwelling  in 
a village  near  Augsburg,  I struck  into  the  company  of  these  pilgrims,  and  got  to  be  one  of  their 
number,  finding  they  were  some  of  those  who  make  it  their  custom  to  go  to  Spain,  many  of 
them  every  year,  to  visit  the  places  of  devotion,  which  they  look  upon  as  their  Indies,  their 
best  market,  and  surest  means  to  get  money.  They  travel  almost  the  whole  kingdom  over  ; 
nor  is  there  a village  where  they  are  not  sure  to  get  meat  and  drink,  and  sixpence  at  least  in 
money.  And  they  manage  matters  so  well,  that  at  the  end  of  their  pilgrimage  they  commonly 
go  off  with  about  a hundred  crowns  clear  gain,  which  they  change  into  gold,  and  hide  either  in 
the  hollow  of  their  staves  or  patches  of  their  clothes,  and  either  thus  or  some  other  private 
way,  convey  it  usually  into  their  own  country,  in  spite  of  all  searches  at  their  going  out  of  the 
kingdom.  Now,  Sancho,  my  design  in  returning  hither  is  to  fetch  the  treasure  that  I left 
buried  when  I went  away,  which  I may  do  with  the  less  inconveniency,  by  reason  it  lies  in  a 
place  quite  out  of  the  town.  That  done,  I intend  to  write  or  go  over  myself  from  Valencia 
to  my  wife  and  daughter,  who  I know  are  in  Algiers,  and  find  one  way  or  other  to  get  them 
over  to  some  port  in  France,  and  from  thence  bring  them  over  into  Germany,  where  we  will 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


725 


stay,  and  see  how  Providence  will  dispose  of  us.  For  I am  sure  my  wife  Francisca  and  my 
daughter  are  good  Catholic  Christians ; and  though  I cannot  say  I am  as  much  a believer  as 
they  are,  yet  I have  more  of  the  Christian  than  of  the  Mahometan,  and  make  it  my  constant 
prayer  to  the  Almighty  to  open  the  eyes  of  my  understanding,  and  let  me  know  how  to  serve 
him.  What  I wonder  at  is,  that  my  wife  and  daughter  should  rather  choose  to  go  for  Barbary 
than  for  France,  where  they  might  have  lived  like  Christians.” 

“ Look  you,  Ricote,”  answered  Sancho,  “ mayhaps  that  was  none  of  their  fault ; for  to  my 
knowledge,  John  Tiopieyo,  thy  wife’s  brother,  took  them  along  with  him,  and  he,  belike,  being 
a rank  Moor,  would  go  where  he  thought  best.  And  I must  tell  thee  further,  friend,  that  I 
doubt  thou  wilt  lose  thy  labour  in  going  to  look  after  thy  hidden  treasure  ; for  the  report  was 
hot  among  us  that  thy  brother-in-law  and  thy  wife  had  a great  many  pearls  and  a deal  of  gold 
taken  away  from  them,  which  should  have  been  interred.” 

“ That  may  be,”  replied  Ricote  ; “ but  I am  sure,  friend  of  mine,  they  have  not  met  with 
my  hoard,  for  I never  would  tell  them  where  I had  hidden  it,  for  fear  of  the  worst ; and, 
therefore,  if  thou  wilt  go  along  with  me,  and  help  me  to  carry  off  this  money,  I will  give  thee 
two  hundred  crowns,  to  make  thee  easier  in  the  world.  Thou  knowest  I can  tell  it  is  but  low 
with  thee.” 

“I  would  do  it,”  answered  Sancho,  “but  I am  not  at  all  covetous.  Were  I in  the  least 
given  to  it,  this  morning  I quitted  an  employment,  which,  had  I but  kept,  I might  have  got 
enough  to  have  made  the  walls  of  my  house  of  beaten  gold,  and,  before  six  months  had  been 
at  an  end,  I might  have  eaten  my  victuals  in  plate.  So  that,  as  well  for  this  reason  as  because 
I fancy  it  would  be  a piece  of  treason  to  the  king,  in  abetting  his  enemies,  I would  not  go  with 
thee,  though  thou  wouldst  lay  me  down  twice  as  much.” 

“ And  pr’ythee,”  said  Ricote,  “ what  sort  of  employment  is  it  thou  hast  left  ? ” 

“ Why,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I have  left  the  government  of  an  island,  and  such  an  island  as, 
i’  faith,  you  will  scarce  meet  with  the  like  in  haste  within  a mile  of  an  oak.” 

“ And  where  is  this  island  ? ” said  Ricote. 

“ Where ! ” quoth  Sancho,  “ why,  some  two  leagues  off,  and  it  is  called  the  island  of 
Barataria.” 

“ Pr’ythee,  do  not  talk  so,”  replied  Ricote  ; “ islands  lie  a great  way  off  in  the  sea,  there 
are  none  in  the  mainland.” 

“Why  not?”  quoth  Sancho.  “I  tell  thee,  friend  Ricote,  I came  from  thence  but  this 
morning ; and  yesterday  I was  there  governing  it  at  my  will  and  pleasure,  like  any  dragon  ; yet, 
for  all  that,  I even  left  it ; for  this  same  place  of  a governor  seemed  to  me  but  a ticklish  and 
perilous  kind  of  an  office.” 

“ And  what  didst  thou  get  by  thy  government  ? ” asked  Ricote. 

“ Why,”  answered  Sancho,  “ I have  got  so  much  knowledge  as  to  understand  that  I am 
not  fit  to  govern  anything,  unless  it  be  a herd  of  cattle  ; and  that  the  wealth  that  is  got  in 


726 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


these  kinds  of  governments  costs  a man  a deal  of  labour  and  toil,  watching  and  hunger ; for 
in  your  islands  governors  must  cat  next  to  nothing,  especially  if  they  have  physicians  to  look 
after  their  health.” 

“ I can  make  neither  head  nor  tail  of  all  this,”  said  Ricote ; “ it  seems  to  me  all  madness, 
for  who  would  be  such  a simpleton  as  to  give  thee  islands  to  govern  ? Was  the  world  quite 
bare  of  abler  men,  that  they  could  pick  out  nobody  else  for  a governor  ? Pr’ythee,  say  no 
more,  man,  but  come  to  thy  senses,  and  consider  whether  thou  wilt  go  along  with  me,  and 
help  me  to  carry  off  my  hidden  wealth,  my  treasure,  for  I may  well  give  it  that  name, 
considering  how  much  there  is  of  it ; and  I will  make  a man  of  thee,  as  I have  told  thee.” 

“Hark  you  me,  Ricote,”  answered  Sancho ; “I  have  already  told  thee  my  mind.  Let  it 
suffice  that  I will  not  betray  thee,  and  so,  in  Heaven’s  name,  go  thy  way,  and  let  me  go 
mine ; for  full  well  I wot  that  ‘ what  is  honestly  got  may  be  lost,  but  what  is  ill  got  will 
perish,”  and  the  owner  too.” 

“ Well,  Sancho,”  said  Ricote,  “ I will  press  thee  no  further.  Only,  pr’ythee,  tell  me,  wert 
thou  in  the  town  when  my  wife  and  daughter  went  away  with  my  brother-in-law  ? ” 

“Ay,  marry  was  I,”  quoth  Sancho,  “by  the  same  token  thy  daughter  looked  so  woundy 
handsome,  that  there  was  great  crowding  to  see  her,  and  everybody  said  she  was  the  finest 
creature  on  God’s  earth.  She  wept  bitterly  all  the  way,  poor  thing ! and  embraced  all  her  female 
friends  and  acquaintance,  and  begged  of  all  those  that  flocked  about  her  to  pray  for  her,  and 
that  in  so  earnest  and  piteous  a manner,  that  she  even  made  me  shed  tears,  though  I am 
none  of  the  greatest  blubberers.  And  now,  honest  neighbour,  I must  bid  thee  good  bye,  for 
I have  a mind  to  be  with  my  master,  Don  Quixote,  this  evening.” 

“ Then  Heaven  be  with  thee,  Sancho,”  said  Ricote  ; “ I find  my  comrades  have  finished 
their  naps,  and  it  is  time  we  should  make  the  best  of  our  way.” 

With  that,  after  a kind  embrace,  Sancho  mounted  his  Dapple,  Ricote  took  his  pilgrim's 
staff!  and  so  they  parted. 


CHAPTER  LV. 


WHAT  HAPTENED  TO  SANCHO  BY  THE  WAY,  WITH  OTHER  MATTERS  WHICH  YOU  WILL  HAVE  NO  MORE 

TO  DO  THAN  TO  SEE. 

SANCHO  stayed  so  long  with  Ricote,  that  the  night  overtook  him  within  half  a league 
of  the  duke’s  castle.  It  grew  dark.  However,  as  it  was  summer-time,  he  was  not  much 
uneasy,  and  chose  to  go  out  of  the  road,  with  a design  to  stay  there  till  the  morning.  But, 
as  ill-luck  would  have  it,  while  he  was  seeking  some  place  where  he  might  rest  himself,  he 
and  Dapple  tumbled  of  a sudden  into  a very  deep  hole,  which  was  among  the  ruins  of  some 
old  buildings.  As  he  was  falling,  he  prayed  with  all  his  heart,  fancying  himself  all  the  while 
sinking  down  into  some  fearful  pit ; but  he  was  in  no  such  danger,  for  by  the  time  he 
had  descended  somewhat  lower  than  eighteen  feet,  Dapple  made  a full  stop  at  the  bottom, 
and  his  rider  found  himself  still  on  his  back,  without  the  least  hurt  in  the  world.  Presently 

Sancho  began  to  consider  the  condition  of  his  bones,  held  his  breath,  and  felt  all  about  him, 

and  finding  himself  sound,  wind  and  limb,  and  in  a whole  skin,  he  thought  he  could  never 
give  Heaven  sufficient  thanks  for  his  wondrous  preservation ; for  at  first  he  gave  himself  over 
for  lost,  and  broken  into  a thousand  pieces.  He  groped  with  both  hands  about  the  walls  of 
the  pit,  to  try  if  it  were  possible  to  get  out  without  help ; but  he  found  them  all  so  plain 

and  so  steep,  that  there  was  not  the  least  hold  or  footing  to  get  up.  This  grieved  him 

to  the  soul  ; and,  to  increase  his  sorrow,  Dapple  began  to  raise  his  voice  in  a very  doleful 
manner,  which  pierced  his  master’s  very  heart  : nor  did  the  poor  beast  make  such  moan 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


72  ’ 

without  reason,  for,  to  say  the  truth,  he  was  but  in  a woful  condition.  “Woe's  me!  cried 
Sancho  ; “what  sudden  and  unthought-of  mischances  every  foot  befall  us  poor  wretches  that 
live  in  this  miserable  world  ! Who  would  have  thought  that  he  who  but  yesterday  saw  himself 
seated  on  the  throne  of  an  island-governor,  and  had  servants  and  vassals  at  his  beck,  should 
to-day  find  himself  buried  in  a pit,  without  the  least  soul  to  help  him  or  come  to  his  relief? 
Here  we  are  likely  to  perish  with  deadly  hunger,  I and  my  ass,  if  we  do  not  die  before;  he 
of  his  bruises,  and  1 of  grief  and  anguish.  At  least,  1 shall  not  be  so  lucky  as  was  my 
master,  Don  Quixote,  when  he  went  down  into  the  cave  of  the  enchanter  Montesinos..  e 
found  better  fare  there  than  he  could  have  at  his  own  house  ; the  cloth  was  laid,  and  his  bed 
made,  and  he  saw  nothing  but  pleasant  visions;  but  I am  like  to  see  nothing  here  but  toads 
and  snakes.  Unhappy  creature  that  I am  1 What  have  my  foolish  designs  and  whimsies 
brought  me  to?  If  ever  it  is  Heaven's  blessed  will  that  my  bones  be  found,  they  wi  e 
taken  out  of  this  dismal  place,  bare,  white,  and  smooth,  and  those  of  my  poor  Dapple  wit 
them;  by  which,  perhaps,  it  will  be  known  whose  they  are,  at  least  by  those  who  sta  mve 
taken  notice  that  Sancho  Panaa  never  stirred  from  his  ass,  nor  hts  ass  from  Sancn  Pan- 
Unhappy  creatures  that  we  are,  1 say  again!  Had  we  died  at  home  among  our  friends  ho  ugh 
we  had  missed  of  relief,  we  should  not  have  wanted  pity,  and  some  to  close  our  eyes  at  e as 

vasp  Oh!  my  dear  companion  and  friend,"  said  he  to  his  ass,  “how  ill  have  1 requite  > 
faithful  services!  Forgive  me,  and  pray  to  fortune  the  best  thou  canst,  to  deliver  - out  o 
this  plunge,  and  I here  promise  thee  to  set  a crown  of  laurel  on  thy  head  that  thou  mayest 
be  taken  for  no  less  than  a poet-.aureate,  and  thy  allowance  of  proven  er  shall  be  doubled 
Thus  Sancho  bewailed  his  misfortune,  and  his  ass  hearkened  to  what  he  said  but  nsw 
not  a word,  so  great  was  the  grief  and  anguish  which  the  poor  creature  endured 

tlme  At  length,  after  a whole  night's  lamenting  and  complaining  at  a miserable  rate  the  day 
came  on  ; mid  its  light  having  confirmed  Sancho  in  his  doubts  of  the  impossibility  of  getting 
out  of  that  place  without  help,  he  set  up  his  throat  again,  and  made  a vigorous | outcry  o O 
whether  anybody  might  not  hear  him.  But,  alas!  all  his  calling  was  m vam,  for  all  nd 
was  nobody  within  hearing;  and  then  he  gave  himself  over  for  dead  and  buried  He  cast  ht 

„„  Dapple.  - I*  » *. d°" 

went  to  him,  and  tried  to  get  him  on  his  legs,  which,  with  much  a o,  y means  ^ ^ 

the  poor  beast  did  at  last,  being  hardly  able  to  stand.  Then  e too  a u. 

out  of  his  wallet,  that  had  run  the  same  fortune  with  them,  and  giving  it  to  tie  ass,  w 10 

I!:  at  an  amiss,  and  made  no  bones  of  it,  “ Here,"  said  Sancho,  as  if  the  beas, — 

him,  “-a  fat  sorrow  is  better  than  a lean.’”  At  length  he  perceived  on  one  side 

pit  a great  hole,  wide  enough  for  a man  to  creep  through  stooping  He  drew  to  * an 

- ■»  (»•».  1—  “ * “ ’““T j 

further  it  extended,  which  he  could  easily  perceive,  the  sun  shining  in 


“ ‘ Oh  ! 


my  dear  companion  and  friend,’  said  he  to  his  ass,  ‘how  ill  have  I requited  thy  faithful 


services  !’  ” — 7 


92 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


73° 

the  concavity.  Having  made  this  discovery,  he  went  back  to  his  ass,  and,  like  one  that  knew 
what  belonged  to  digging,  with  a stone  he  began  to  remove  the  earth  that  was  about  the  hole, 
and  laboured  so  effectually  that  he  soon  made  a passage  for  his  companion.  Then,  taking  him 
by  the  halter,  he  led  him  along  fair  and  softly  through  the  cave,  to  try  if  he  could  not  find 
a way  to  get  out  on  the  other  side.  Sometimes  he  went  in  the  dark,  and  sometimes  without 
light,  but  never  without  fear.  “Heaven  defend  me!”  said  he  to  himself;  “what  a heart  of  a 
chicken  have  I ! This  now,  which  to  me  is  a sad  disaster,  to  my  master,  Don  Quixote,  would 
be  a rare  adventure.  He  would  look  upon  these  caves  and  dungeons  as  lovely  gardens  and 
glorious  palaces,  and  hope  to  be  led  out  of  these  dark,  narrow  cells  into  some  fine  meadow ; 
while  I,  luckless,  helpless,  heartless  wretch  that  I am,  every  step  I take,  expect  to  sink  into 
some  deeper  pit  than  this,  and  go  down  I do  not  know  whither.  Welcome,  ill  luck,  when  it 
comes  alone.”  Thus  he  went  on,  lamenting  and  despairing,  and  thought  he  had  gone  some- 
what more  than  half  a league,  when,  at  last,  he  perceived  a kind  of  confused  light,  like  that  of 
day,  break  in  at  some  open  place,  but  which,  to  poor  Sancho,  seemed  a prospect  of  a passage 
into  another  world. 

But  here  Cid  Hamet  Benengeli  leaves  him  a while,  and  returns  to  Don  Quixote,  who 
entertained  and  pleased  himself  with  the  hopes  of  a speedy  combat  between  him  and  the 
defamer  of  Donna  Rodriguez’s  daughter,  whose  wrongs  he  designed  to  see  redressed  on  the 
appointed  day. 

It  happened  one  morning,  as  he  was  riding  out  to  prepare  and  exercise  against  the  time 
of  battle,  as  he  was  practising  with  Rozinante,  the  horse,  in  the  middle  of  his  manage,  pitched 
his  feet  near  the  brink  of  a deep  cave ; insomuch,  that  if  Don  Quixote  had  not  used  the  best 
of  his  skill,  he  must  infallibly  have  tumbled  into  it.  Having  escaped  that  danger,  he  was 
tempted  to  look  into  the  cave  without  alighting,  and,  wheeling  about,  rode  up  to  it.  Now, 
while  he  was  satisfying  his  curiosity,  and  seriously  musing,  he  thought  he  heard  a noise  within, 
and  thereupon  listening,  he  could  distinguish  these  words,  which,  in  a doleful  tone,  arose  out 
of  the  cavern  : “ Ho!  above  there  ! is  there  no  good  Christian  that  hears  me  ? — no  charitable 
knight  or  gentleman,  that  will  take  pity  of  a sinner  buried  alive — a poor  governor  without  a 
government  ? ” 

Don  Quixote  fancied  he  heard  Sancho’s  voice,  which  did  not  a little  surprise  him ; and 
for  his  better  satisfaction,  raising  his  voice  as  much  as  he  could,  “ Who  is  that  below  ? ” 
cried  he  ; “ who  is  it  that  complains  ? ” 

“Who  should  it  be,  to  his  sorrow,”  cried  Sancho,  “but  the  most  wretched  Sancho  Panza, 
governor,  for  his  sins  and  for  his  unlucky  errantry,  of  the  island  of  Barataria,  formerly  squire 
to  the  famous  knight,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ? ” 

These  words  redoubled  Don  Quixote’s  admiration,  and  increased  his  amazement,  for 
he  presently  imagined  that  Sancho  was  dead,  and  that  his  soul  was  there  doing  penance. 
Possessed  with  that  fancy,  “ I conjure  thee,”  said  he,  “ by  all  that  can  conjure  thee,  as  I am 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHa. 


73t 

a Catholic  Christian,  to  tell  me  who  thou  art ; and,  if  thou  art  a soul  in  pain,  let  me  know 
what  thou  wouldst  have  me  to  do  for  thee ; for  since  my  profession  is  to  assist  and  succour  all 
that  are  afflicted  in  this  world,  it  shall  also  be  so  to  relieve  and  help  those  who  stand  in  need 
of  it  in  the  other,  and  who  cannot  help  themselves.” 

“ Surely,  sir,”  answered  he  from  below,  “ you  that  speak  to  me  should  be  my  master,  Don 

Quixote  ; by  the  tone  of  your  voice  it  can  be  no  man  else.” 

“ My  name  is  Don  Quixote,”  replied  the  knight,  “ and  I think  it  my  duty  to  assist  not 
only  the  living,  but  the  dead,  in  their  necessities.  Tell  me,  then,  who  thou  art,  for  thou  fullest 
me  with  astonishment.” 

“ Why,  then,”  replied  the  voice,  “ by  whatever  you  will  have  me  swear  by,  I make  oath 

that  I am  Sancho  Panza,  your  squire,  and  that  I never  was  dead  yet  in  my  life.  But  only 

having  left  my  government,  for  reasons  and  causes  which  I have  not  leisure  yet  to  tell  you, 

last  night  unluckily  I fell  into  this  cave,  where  I am  still,  and  Dapple  with  me,  that  will  not 

let  me  tell  a lie  ; for,  as  a farther  proof  of  what  I say,  he  is  here.” 

Now,  what  is  strange,  immediately,  as  if  the  ass  had  understood  what  his  master  said, 

to  back  his  evidence,  he  fell  a-braying  so  obstreperously,  that  he  made  the  whole  cave  ring 
again. 

O 

“ A worthy  witness,”  cried  Don  Quixote  : “ I know  his  bray,  as  if  I were  the  parent  of 
him  ; and  I know  thy  voice  too,  my  Sancho.  I find  thou  art  my  real  squire  ; stay,  therefore, 
till  I go  to  the  castle,  which  is  hard  by,  and  fetch  more  company  to  help  thee  out  of  the 
pit  into  which  thy  sins,  doubtless,  have  thrown  thee.” 

“Make  haste,  I beseech  you,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “and,  for  Heaven’s  sake,  come  again  as 
fast  as  you  can,  for  I can  no  longer  endure  to  be  here  buried  alive,  and  I am  even  dying  with 
fear.” 

Don  Quixote  went  with  all  speed  to  the  castle,  and  gave  the  duke  and  duchess  an  account 
of  Sancho’s  accident,  whilst  they  did  not  a little  wonder  at  it,  though  they  conceived  he  might 
easily  enough  fall  in  at  the  mouth  of  the  cave,  which  had  been  there  time  out  of  mind.  But 
they  were  mightily  surprised  to  hear  he  had  abdicated  his  government  before  they  had  an 
account  of  his  coming  away. 

In  short,  they  sent  ropes  and  other  conveniences  by  their  servants  to  draw  him  out,  and 
at  last,  with  much  trouble  and  labour,  both  he  and  his  Dapple  were  restored  from  that  gloomy 
pit  to  the  full  enjoyment  of  the  light  of  the  sun.  At  the  same  time,  a certain  scholar 
standing  by,  and  seeing  him  hoisted  up,  “Just  so,”  said  he,  “should  all  bad  governors  come 
out  of  their  governments ; just  as  this  wretch  is  dragged  out  of  this  profound  abyss,  pale, 
half-starved,  famished,  and,  as  I fancy,  without  a cross  in  his  pocket.” 

“ Hark  you,  good  Slander,”  replied  Sancho  ; “ it  is  now  eight  or  ten  days  since  I began  to 

govern  the  island  that  was  given  me,  and  in  all  that  time  I never  had  my  bellyful  but  once. 

Physicians  have  persecuted  me,  enemies  have  trampled  over  me,  and  bruised  my  bones,  and 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


I have  had  neither  leisure  to  take  bribes  nor  to  receive  my  just  dues.  Now,  all  this  con- 
sidered, in  my  opinion  I did  not  deserve  to  come  out  in  this  fashion.  But  1 man  appoints,  and 
God  disappoints.’  Heaven  knows  best  what  is  best  for  us  all.  We  must  take  time  as  it 
comes,  and  our  lot  as  it  falls.  Let  no  man  say,  ‘ I will  drink  no  more  of  this  water.’  ‘ Many 
count  their  chickens  before  they  are  hatched  ; and  where  they  expect  bacon,  meet  with  broker, 
bones.’  Heaven  knows  my  mind,  and  I say  no  more,  though  I might.” 

“Never  trouble  thyself,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “nor  mind  what  some  will  say,  for 
then  thou  wilt  never  have  done.  So  thy  conscience  be  clear,  let  the  world  talk  at  random, 
as  it  uses  to  do.  One  may  as  soon  tie  up  the  winds  as  the  tongues  of  slanderers.  If  a 
governor  returns  rich  from  his  government,  they  say  he  has  fleeced  and  robbed  the  people  ; if 
poor,  then  they  call  him  an  idle  fool,  and  ill  husband.” 

“ Nothing  so  sure,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  this  bout  they  will  call  me  a shallow  fool ; 
but  for  a fleecer  or  a robber,  I scorn  their  words— I defy  all  the  world.” 

Thus  discoursing  as  they  went,  with  a rabble  of  boys  and  idle  people  about  them,  they 
at  last  got  to  the  castle,  where  the  duke  and  duchess  waited  in  the  gallery  for  the  knight  and 
squire.  As  for  Sancho,  he  would  not  go  up  to  see  the  duke  till  he  had  seen  his  ass  in  the 
stable,  and  provided  for  him,  for  he  said  the  poor  beast  had  but  sorry  entertainment  in  his 
last  night’s  lodging.  This  done,  away  he  went  to  wait  on  his  lord  and  lady ; and,  throwing 
himself  on  his  knees,  “ My  lord  and  lady,”  said  he,  “ I went  to  govern  your  island  of  Barataria, 
such  being  your  will  and  pleasure,  though  it  was  your  goodness  more  than  my  desert.  Naked 
I entered  into  it,  and  naked  I came  away.  I neither  won  nor  lost.  Whether  I governed  well  or 

ill,  there  are  those  not  far  off  can  tell  ; and  let  them  tell,  if  they  please,  that  can  tell  better 

than  I.  I have  resolved  doubtful  cases,  determined  law-suits,  and  all  the  while  ready  to  die 

for  hunger.  Such  was  the  pleasure  of  Doctor  Pedro  Rezio  of  Tirteafuera,  that  physician  in 
ordinary  to  island  governors.  Enemies  set  upon  us  in  the  night,  and  after  they  had  put  us  in 
great  danger,  the  people  of  the  island  say  they  were  delivered,  and  had  the  victory  by  the 
strength  of  my  arm ; and  may  Heaven  prosper  them  as  they  speak  truth,  say  I.  In  short, 

in  that  time  I experienced  all  the  cares  and  burdens  this  trade  of  governing  brings  along 

with  it,  and  I found  them  too  heavy  for  my  shoulders.  I was  never  cut  out  for  a ruler,  and 

I am  too  clumsy  to  meddle  with  edge  tools  ; and  so,  before  the  government  left  me,  I even 

resolved  to  leave  the  government ; and,  accordingly,  yesterday  I quitted  the  island  as  I found 

it,  with  the  same  streets,  the  same  houses,  and  the  same  roofs  to  them,  as  when  I came  to  it. 

I have  asked  for  nothing  by  way  of  loan,  and  have  made  no  hoard  against  a rainy  day.  I 

designed,  indeed,  to  have  issued  out  several  wholesome  orders,  but  did  not,  for  fear  they  should 
not  be  kept  ; in  which  case  it  signifies  no  more  to  make  them  than  if  one  made  them  not  So, 
as  I said  before,  I came  away  from  the  island  without  any  company  but  my  Dapple.  I fell 

into  a cave,  and  went  a good  way  through  it,  till  this  morning,  by  the  light  of  the  sun,  I 

spied  my  way  out,  yet  not  so  easy  ; but  had  not  Heaven  sent  my  master,  Don  Quixote,  U, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


7">  -> 

JO 

help  me,  there  I might  have  stayed  till  doomsday.  And  now,  my  lord  duke,  and  my  lady 
duchess,  here  is  your  governor,  Sancho  Panza,  again,  who,  by  a ten  days’  government,  has  only 
picked  up  so  much  experience  as  to  know  he  would  not  give  a straw  to  be  a governor, 
not  only  of  an  island,  but  of  the  ’versal  world.  This  being  allowed,  kissing  your  honours’ 
hands,  and  doing  like  the  boys,  when  they  play,  who  cry,  ‘ Leap  you,  and  then  let  me  leap,’ 
so  I leap  from  the  government  to  my  old  master’s  service  again.  For,  after  all,  though 
with  him  I often  eat  my  bread  with  bodily  fear,  yet  still  I fill  my  belly  ; and,  for  my  part,  so 
I have  but  that  well  stuffed,  no  matter  whether  it  be  with  carrots  or  with  partridges.” 

Thus  Sancho  concluded  his  long  speech,  and  Don  Quixote,  who  all  the  while  dreaded  he 
would  have  said  a thousand  impertinences,  thanked  Heaven  in  his  heart,  finding  him  end  with 
so  few.  The  duke  embraced  Sancho,  and  told  him  he  was  very  sorry  he  had  quitted  his 
government  so  soon ; but  that  he  would  give  him  some  other  employment  that  should  be  less 
troublesome,  and  more  profitable.  The  duchess  was  no  less  kind,  giving  orders  he  should  want 
for  nothing,  for  he  seemed  sadly  bruised  and  out  of  order. 


CHAPTER  LVI. 

OF  THE  EXTRAORDINARY  AND  UNACCOUNTABLE  COMBAT  BETWEEN  DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA  AND 
THE  LACKEY  TOSILOS,  IN  VINDICATION  OF  THE  MATRON  DONNA  RODRIGUEZ’S  DAUGHTER. 

THE  duke  and  duchess  were  not  sorry  that  the  interlude  of  Sancho’s  government  had 

been  played,  especially  when  the  steward,  who  came  that  very  day,  gave  them  a full 

and  distinct  account  of  everything  the  governor  had  done  and  said  during  his  administration, 
using  his  very  expressions,  and  repeating  almost  every  word  he  had  spoken,  concluding  with 
a description  of  the  storming  of  the  island,  and  Sancho’s  fear  and  abdication,  which  proved 
no  unacceptable  entertainment. 

And  now  the  history  relates  that  the  day  appointed  for  the  combat  was  come,  nor  had  the 
duke  forgotten  to  give  his  lackey,  Tosilos,  all  requisite  instructions  how  to  vanquish  Don 
Quixote,  and  yet  neither  kill  nor  wound  him ; to  which  purpose  he  gave  orders  that  the  spears, 
or  steel  heads  of  their  lances,  should  be  taken  off,  making  Don  Quixote  sensible  that  Christianity, 
for  which  he  had  so  great  a veneration,  did  not  admit  that  such  conflicts  should  so  much 

endanger  the  lives  of  the  combatants,  and  that  it  was  enough  that  he  granted  him  free  lists 

in  his  territories,  though  it  was  against  the  decree  of  the  holy  council,  which  forbids  such 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA 


735 


challenges  ; for  which  reason  he  desired  them  not  to  push  the  thing  to  the  utmost  rigour.  Don 
Quixote  replied  that  his  grace  had  the  disposal  of  all  things,  and  it  was  his  duty  to  obey. 

And  now,  the  dreadful  day  being  come,  the  duke  caused  a spacious  scaffold  to  be  erected 
for  the  judges  of  the  field  of  battle,  and  for  the  matron  and  her  daughter,  the  plaintiffs. 

An  infinite  number  of  people  flocked  from  all  the  neighbouring  towns  and  villages  to 
behold  the  wonderful  new  kind  of  combat.  The  first  that  made  his  entrance  at  the 
barriers  was  the  marshal  of  the  field,  who  came  to  survey  the  ground,  and  rode  all  over 
it,  that  there  might  be  no  foul  play,  nor  private  holes,  nor  contrivance  to  make  one  stumble 
or  fall.  After  that  entered  the  matron  and  her  daughter,  who  seated  themselves  in  their 
places,  all  in  deep  mourning,  their  veils  close  to  their  eyes,  and  over  their  breasts,  with  no 
small  demonstration  of  sorrow.  Presently,  at  one  end  of  the  listed  field,  appeared  the  peerless 
champion,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  ; a while  after,  at  the  other,  entered  the  grand  lackey, 
Tosilos,  attended  with  a great  number  of  trumpets,  and  mounted  on  a mighty  steed  that  shook 
the  very  earth.  The  vizard  of  his  helmet  was  down,  and  he  was  armed  cap-a-pie  in  shining 
armour  of  proof.  His  courser  was  a flea-bitten  horse,  that  seemed  of  Friesland  breed,  and 
had  a quantity  of  wool  about  each  of  his  fetlocks.  The  valorous  combatant  came  on,  well 
tutored  by  the  duke,  his  master,  how  to  behave  himself  towards  the  valorous  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,  being  warned  to  spare  his  life  by  all  means  ; and  therefore,  to  avoid  a shock 
in  his  first  career  that  might  otherwise  prove  fatal,  should  he  encounter  him  directly,  Tosilos 
fetched  a compass  about  the  barrier,  and  at  last  made  a stop  right  against  the  two  women, 
casting  a leering  eye  upon  her  that  had  demanded  him  in  marriage.  Then  the  marshal  of 
the  field  called  to  Don  Quixote,  and,  in  presence  of  Tosilos,  asked  the  mother  and  the  daughter 
whether  they  consented  that  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  should  vindicate  their  right,  and 
whether  they  would  stand  or  fall  by  the  fortune  of  their  champion.  They  said  they  did,  and 
allowed  of  whatever  he  should  do  in  their  behalf  as  good  and  valid.  The  duke  and  duchess 
by  this  time  were  seated  in  a gallery  that  was  over  the  barriers,  which  were  surrounded  by 
a vast  throng  of  spectators,  all  waiting  to  see  the  vigorous  and  never-before-seen  conflict.  The 
conditions  of  the  combat  were  these — That  if  Don  Quixote  were  the  conqueror,  his  opponent 
should  marry  Donna  Rodriguez’s  daughter ; but  if  the  knight  were  overcome,  then  the  victor 
should  be  discharged  from  his  promise,  and  not  bound  to  give  her  any  other  satisfaction.  Then 
the  marshal  of  the  field  placed  each  of  them  on  the  spot  whence  he  should  start,  dividing 
equally  between  them  the  advantage  of  the  ground,  that  neither  of  them  might  have  the  sun 
in  his  eyes.  And  now  the  drums  beat,  and  the  clangour  of  the  trumpets  resounded  through 
the  air ; the  earth  shook  under  them,  and  the  hearts  of  the  numerous  spectators  were  in 
suspense — some  fearing,  others  expecting,  the  good  or  bad  issue  of  the  battle.  Don  Quixote, 
recommending  himself  with  all  his  soul  to  Heaven,  and  his  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  stood 
expecting  when  the  precise  signal  for  the  onset  should  be  given.  But  our  lackey’s  mind  was 
otherwise  employed,  and  all  his  thoughts  were  upon  what  I am  going  to  tell  you. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


/ 

It  seems,  as  he  stood  looking  on  his  female  enemy,  she  appeared  to  him  the  most  beautiful 
woman  he  had  ever  seen  in  his  whole  life  ; which  being  perceived  by  the  little  blind  archer,  to 
whom  the  world  gives  the  name  of  Love,  he  took  his  advantage,  and,  fond  of  improving  his 
triumphs,  though  it  were  but  over  the  soul  of  a lackey,  he  came  up  to  him  softly,  and,  without 
being  perceived  by  any  one,  he  shot  an  arrow  two  yards  long  into  the  poor  footman’s  side, 
so  smartly,  that  his  heart  was  pierced  through  and  through — a thing  which  the  mischievous 
boy  could  easily  do ; for  love  is  invisible,  and  has  free  ingress  or  egress  where  he  pleases,  at 
a most  unaccountable  rate.  Y on  must  know  then  that  when  the  signal  for  the  onset  was  given 
our  lacquey  was  in  an  ecstasy,  transported  with  the  thoughts  of  the  beauty  of  his  lovely  enemy, 
insomuch  that  he  took  no  manner  of  notice  of  the  trumpet’s  sound  ; quite  contrary  to  Don 
Quixote,  who  no  sooner  heard  it  than,  clapping  spurs  to  his  horse,  he  began  to  make  towards 
the  enemy  with  Rozinante’s  best  speed.  At  the  same  time,  his  good  squire,  Sancho  Panza, 
seeing  him  start,  “ Heaven  be  thy  guide,”  cried  he  aloud,  “ thou  cream  and  flower  of  chivalry 
errant ! Heaven  give  thee  the  victory,  since  thou  hast  right  on  thy  side.”  Tosilos  saw  Don 
Quixote  come  towards  him  ; yet,  instead  of  taking  his  career  to  encounter  him,  without  leaving 
the  place,  he  called  as  loud  as  he  could  to  the  marshal  of  the  field,  who  thereupon  rode  up 
to  him  to  see  what  he  would  have.  “Sir,"  said  Tosilos,  “is  not  this  duel  to  be  fought  that 
I may  marry  yonder  young  lady,  or  let  it  alone  ? ” 

“ Yes,”  answered  the  marshal. 

“ Why,  then,”  said  the  lacquey,  “ 1 feel  a burden  upon  my  conscience,  and  am  sensible  I 
should  have  a great  deal  to  answer  for  should  1 proceed  any  further  in  this  combat ; and 
therefore  I yield  myself  vanquished,  and  desire  I may  marry  the  lady  this  moment.” 

The  marshal  of  the  field  was  surprised ; and,  as  he  was  privy  to  the  duke’s  contrivance 
of  that  business,  the  lacquey’s  unexpected  submission  put  him  to  such  a nonplus  that  he  knew 
not  what  to  answer.  On  the  other  side,  Don  Quixote  stopped  in  the  middle  of  his  career, 
seeing  his  adversary  did  not  put  himself  in  a posture  of  defence.  The  duke  could  not  imagine 
why  the  business  of  the  field  was  at  a stand  ; but  the  marshal  having  informed  him,  he  was 
amazed,  and  in  a great  passion. 

In  the  meantime,  Tosilos,  approaching  Donna  Rodriguez,  “Madam,”  cried  he,  “I  am 
willing  to  marry  your  daughter;  there  is  no  need  of  law-suits  or  of  combats  in  the  matter; 
I had  rather  make  an  end  of  it  peaceably,  and  without  the  hazard  of  body  and  soul.” 

“ Why,  then,”  said  the  valorous  Don  Quixote,  hearing  this,  “ since  it  is  so,  I am  discharged 
of  my  promise  ; let  them  even  marry  in  God’s  name,  and  Heaven  bless  them,  and  give 
them  joy.” 

At  the  same  time,  the  duke  coming  down  within  the  lists,  and  applying  himself  to  Tosilos, 

“ Tell  me,  knight,”  said  he,  “ is  it  true  that  you  yield  without  fighting,  and  that,  at  the 
instigation  of  your  timorous  conscience,  you  are  resolved  to  marry  this  damsel  ? ” 

“Yes,  if  it  please  your  grace,’’  answered  Tosilos. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


737 

“ Marry,  and  I think  it  the  wisest  course,"’  quoth  Sancho  ; “ for  what  says  the  proverb  ? 
‘What  the  mouse  would  get  give  the  cat,  and  keep  thyself  out  of  trouble.’’’ 

In  the  meanwhile,  Tosilos  began  to  unlace  his  helmet,  and  called  out  that  somebody  might 
help  him  off  with  it  quickly,  as  being  so  choked  with  his  armour  that  he  was  scarcely  able 
to  breathe.  With  that  they  took  off  his  helmet  with  all  speed,  and  then  the  lacquey’s  face 
was  plainly  discovered.  Donna  Rodriguez  and  her  daughter,  perceiving  it  presently,  “ A cheat ! 
a cheat!”  cried  they;  “they  have  got  Tosilos,  my  lord  duke’s  lacquey,  to  counterfeit  my 
lawful  husband  ; justice  of  Heaven  and  the  king  ! This  is  a piece  of  malice  and  treachery  not 
to  be  endured.” 

“ Ladies,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ do  not  vex  yourselves  ; there  is  neither  malice  nor  treachery 
in  the  case;  or,  if  there  be,  the  duke  is  not  in  the  fault.  No,  these  evil-minded  necromancers 
that  persecute  me  are  the  traitors  who,  envying  the  glory  I should  have  got  by  this  combat, 
have  transformed  the  face  of  my  adversary  into  this,  which  you  see  is  the  duke’s  lacquey. 
But  take  my  advice,  madam,”  added  he  to  the  daughter,  “ and,  in  spite  of  the  baseness  of  my 
enemies,  marry  him  ; for  I dare  engage  it  is  the  very  man  you  claim  as  your  husband.” 

The  duke,  hearing  this,  angry  as  he  was,  could  hardly  forbear  losing  all  his  indignation- 
in  laughter.  “Truly,”  said  he,  “so  many  extraordinary  accidents  every  day  befall  the  great 
Don  Quixote,  that  I am  inclinable  to  believe  this  is  not  my  lacquey,  though  he  appears  to 
be  so.  But,  for  our  better  satisfaction,  let  us  defer  the  marriage  but  a fortnight,  and,  in  the 
meanwhile,  keep  in  close  custody  this  person  that  has  put  us  into  this  confusion  ; perhaps  by 
that  time  he  may  resume  his  former  looks  : for  doubtless  the  malice  of  those  mischievous 
magicians  against  the  noble  Don  Quixote  cannot  last  so  long,  especially  when  they  find  all 
these  tricks  and  transformations  of  so  little  avail.”  ) 

“ Alack-a-day ! sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ those  plaguy  tormentors  are  not  so  soon  tired  as 
you  think  ; for  where  my  master  is  concerned  they  are  used  to  form  and  deform,  and  chop 
and  change  this  into  that,  and  that  into  the  other.  It  is  but  a little  while  ago  that  they  trans- 
mogrified the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors,  whom  he  had  overcome,  into  a special  acquaintance  of 
ours,  the  bachelor  Samson  Carrasco,  of  our  village  ; and  as  for  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso, 
our  mistress,  they  have  bewitched  and  altered  her  into  the  shape  of  a mere  country  blowze  ; 
and  so  I verily  think  this  saucy  fellow  here  is  like  to  die  a footman,  and  will  live  a footman 
all  the  days  of  his  life.” 

“Well,”  cried  the  daughter,  “let  him  be  what  he  will,  if  he  will  have  me  I will  have 
him.  I ought  to  thank  him,  for  I had  rather  be  a lacquey’s  wife  than  a gentleman’s  cast-off 
mistress ; besides,  he  that  deluded  me  is  no  gentleman  neither.” 

To  be  short,  the  sum  of  the  matter  was  that  Tosilos  should  be  confined,  to  see  what  his 

transformation  would  come  to.  Don  Quixote  was  proclaimed  victor,  by  general  consent ; and 

the  people  went  away,  most  of  them  very  much  out  of  humour  because  the  combatants  had 

not  cut  one  another  to  pieces  to  make  them  sport,  according  to  the  custom  of  the  young 
93 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  EA  MANCHA. 


rabble,  to  be  sorry,  when,  after  they  have  stayed  in  hopes  to  see  a man  hanged,  he  happens 
to  be  pardoned,  either  by  the  party  he  has  wronged  or  the  magistrate.  The  crowd  being 
dispersed,  the  duke  and  duchess  returned  with  Don  Quixote  into  the  castle  ; Tosilos  was 
secured,  and  kept  close.  As  for  Donna  Rodriguez  and  her  daughter,  they  were  very  well 
pleased  to  see,  one  way  or  another,  that  the  business  would  end  in  marriage;  and  Tosilos 
flattered  himself  with  the  like  expectation. 


CHAPTER  LVII. 


HOW  DON  QUIXOTE  TOOK  HIS  LEAVE  OF  TIIE  DUKE,  AND  WHAT  PASSED  BETWEEN  HIM  AND  THE  WITTY 

WANTON  ALTISIDORA;  THE  DUCHESS’S  DAMSEL. 

DON  QUIXOTE  thought  it  now  time  to  leave  the  idle  life  he  had  led  in  the  castle, 
believing  it  a mighty  fault  thus  to  shut  himself  up  and  indulge  his  sensual  appetite 
among  the  tempting  varieties  of  dainties  and  delights  which  the  lord  and  lady  of  the  place 
provided  for  his  entertainment  as  a knight-errant ; and  he  thought  he  was  to  give  a strict 
account  to  Heaven  for  a course  of  life  so  opposite  to  his  active  profession.  Accordingly,  one 
day  he  acquainted  the  duke  and  duchess  with  his  sentiments,  and  begged  their  leave  to  depart. 
They  both  seemed  very  unwilling  to  part  with  him,  but  yet  at  last  yielded  to  his  entreaties. 
The  duchess  gave  Sancho  his  wife’s  letters,  which  he  could  not  hear  read  without  weeping. 
“ Who  would  have  thought,”  cried  he,  “ that  all  the  mighty  hopes  with  which  my  wife  swelled 
herself  up  at  the  news  of  my  preferment  should  come  to  this  at  last,  and  how  I should  be  reduced 
again  to  trot  after  my  master,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  in  search  of  hunger  and  broken 
bones!  However,  I am  glad  to  see  my  Teresa  was  like  herself  in  sending  the  duchess  the  acorns, 


t:  He  acquainted  the  duke  and  duchess  with  his  sentiments,  and  begged  their  leave  to  depart.”— A 739- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA 


741 


which,  if  she  had  not  done,  I should  have  been  confounded  mad  with  her.  My  comfort  is, 
that  no  man  can  say  the  present  was  a bribe,  for  I had  my  government  before  she  sent  it ; and 
it  is  fit  those  who  have  a kindness  done  them  should  show  themselves  grateful,  though  it  be 
with  a small  matter.  In  short,  naked  I came  into  the  government,  and  naked  I went  out  of 
it : and  so  I may  say,  for  my  comfort,  with  a safe  conscience,  naked  I came  into  the  world, 
and  naked  I am  still  : I neither  won  nor  lost ; that  is  no  easy  matter,  as  times  go,  let  me  tell 
you.”  These  were  Sancho’s  sentiments  at  his  departure. 

Don  Quixote,  having  taken  his  solemn  leave  of  the  duke  and  duchess  over  night,  left  his 
apartment  the  next  morning,  and  appeared  in  his  armour  in  the  court-yard,  the  galleries  all 
round  about  being  filled  at  the  same  time  with  the  people  of  the  house  ; the  duke  and  duchess 
being  also  got  thither  to  see  him.  Sancho  was  upon  his  Dapple,  with  his  cloak-bag,  his 

wallet,  and  his  provision,  very  brisk  and  cheerful  ; for  the  steward  that  acted  the  part  of 

Trifaldi  had  given  him  a purse,  with  two  hundred  crowns  in  gold,  to  defray  expenses,  which 

was  more  than  Don  Quixote  knew  at  that  time.  And  now,  when  everybody  looked  to  see 

them  set  forward,  on  a sudden,  the  arch  and  witty  Altisidora  started  from  the  rest  of  the 
duchess’s  damsels  and  attendants  that  stood  by  among  the  rest,  and,  in  a doleful  tone,  addressed 
herself  to  him  in  the  following  doggerel  rhymes  : — 


THE  MOCK  FAREWELL. 


1. 

Stay,  cruel  Don, 

Do  not  be  gone, 

Nor  give  thy  horse  the  rowels ; 
For  every  jag 
Thou  giv’st  thy  nag, 

Does  prick  me  to  the  bowels. 

Thou  dost  not  shun 
Some  butter’d  bun, 

Or  wench  without  a rag  on  : 
Alas ! I am 
A very  lamb, 

Yet  love  like  any  dragon. 

Thou  didst  deceive, 

And  now  dost  leave 
A lass,  as  tight  as  any 
That  ever  stood 
In  hill  or  wood, 

Near  Venus  and  Diana. 

Since  thou,  false  fiend, 
When  nymph’s  thy  friend, 
/Eneas-like  dost  bob  her, 

Go,  rot  and  die, 

Boil,  roast,  or  fry, 

With  Barabbas  the  robber. 


II. 

Thou  tak’st  thy  flight, 

Like  ravenous  kite, 

That  holds  within  his  pounces 
A tender  bit, 

A poor  tom-tit, 

Then  whist ! away  he  flounces. 

The  heart  of  me, 

And  night-coifs  three, 

With  garters  twain  you  plunder, 
From  legs  of  hue 
White,  black,  and  blue, 

So  marbled  o’er,  you’d  wonder. 

Two  thousand  groans, 

And  warm  ahones, 

Are  stuff’d  within  thy  pillion. 

The  least  of  which, 

Like  flaming  pitch, 

Might  have  burn’d  down  old  Iiion 

Since  thou,  false  fiend, 

When  nymph’s  thy  friend, 
Aineas-like  dost  bob  her, 

Go,  rot  and  die, 

Boil,  roast,  or  fry, 

With  Barabbas  the  robber. 


742 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


III. 

As  sour  as  ink, 

Against  thy  pink, 

May  be  thy  Sancho’s  gizzard  : 
And  he  ne’er  thwack 
His  brawny  back, 

To  free  her  from  the  wizard. 

May  all  thy  flouts, 

And  sullen  doubts, 

Be  scored  upon  thy  dowdy ; 
And  she  ne’er  freed, 

For  thy  misdeed, 

From  rusty  phiz,  and  cloudy. 

May  fortune’s  curse 
From  bad  to  worse, 

Turn  all  thy  best  adventures  ; 
Thy  joys  to  dumps, 

Thy  brags  to  thumps, 

And  thy  best  hopes  to  banters. 

Since  thou,  false  fiend, 
When  nymph's  thy  friend, 
.Eneas-like  dost  bob  her, 

Go,  rot  and  die, 

Boil,  roast,  or  fry, 

With  Barabbas  the  robber. 


IV. 

May’st  thou  incog 
Sneak  like  a dog, 

And  o’er  the  mountains  trudge  it ; 
From  Spain  to  Cales, 

From  Usk  to  Wales, 

Without  a cross  in  budget. 

If  thou’rt  so  brisk 
To  play  at  whisk, 

In  hopes  of  winning  riches  ; 

For  want  of  pelf 
Stir  even  thyself, 

And  lose  thy  very  breeches. 

May  thy  corns  ache, 

Then  pen-knife  take, 

And  cut  thee  to  the  raw-bone  ; 

With  tooth-ache  mad, 

No  ease  be  had, 

Though  quacks  pull  out  thy  jaw-bone. 

Since  thou,  false  fiend, 

When  nymph’s  thy  friend, 
Eneas-like,  dost  bob  her, 

Go,  rot  and  die, 

Boil,  roast,  or  fry, 

With  Barabbas  the  robber. 


Thus  Altisidora  expressed  her  resentments,  and  Don  Quixote,  who  looked  on  her  seriously 
all  the  while,  would  not  answer  a word  ; but,  turning  to  Sancho,  “ Dear  Sancho,”  said  he,  “ by 
the  memory  of  thy  forefathers  I conjure  thee  to  tell  me  one  truth  : say,  hast  thou  any  night- 
coifs,  or  garters,  that  belong  to  this  love-sick  damsel  ? ” 

“ The  three  night-coifs  I have,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  as  for  the  garters,  I know  no  more 
of  them  than  the  man  in  the  moon.” 

The  duchess,  being  wholly  a stranger  to  this  part  of  Altisidora’s  frolic,  was  amazed  to  see 
her  proceed  so  far  in  it,  though  she  knew  her  to  be  of  an  arch  and  merry  disposition.  But 
the  duke,  being  pleased  with  the  humour,  resolved  to  carry  it  on.  Thereupon,  addressing 
himself  to  Don  Quixote,  “ Truly,  Sir  Knight,”  said  he,  “ I do  not  take  it  kindly,  that,  after 
such  civil  entertainment  as  you  have  had  here  in  my  castle,  you  should  offer  to  carry  away 
three  night-coifs,  if  not  a pair  of  garters  besides,  the  proper  goods  and  chattels  of  this  damsel 
here  present.  This  was  not  done  like  a gentleman,  and  does  not  make  good  the  character  you 
would  maintain  in  the  world ; therefore,  restore  her  garters,  or  I challenge  you  to  a mortal 
combat,  without  being  afraid  that  your  evil-minded  enchanters  should  alter  my  face,  as  they  did 
my  footman’s.” 

“ Heaven  forbid,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ that  I should  draw  my  sword  against  your  most 
illustrious  person,  to  whom  I stand  indebted  for  so  many  favours.  No,  my  lord  ; as  for  the 
night-coifs,  I will  cause  them  to  be  restored,  for  Sancho  tells  me  he  has  them  ; but  as  for  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


743 


garters,  it  is  impossible,  for  neither  he  nor  I ever  had  them,  and  if  this  damsel  of  yours  will 
look  carefully  among  her  things  I dare  say  she  will  find  them.  I never  was  a pilferer,  my 
lord ; and,  while  Heaven  forsakes  me  not,  I never  shall  be  guilty  of  such  baseness.  I beg 
you  will  be  pleased  to  entertain  a better  opinion  of  me,  and  once  more  permit  me  to  depart.” 

“Farewell,  noble  Don  Quixote,”  said  the  duchess;  “may  Providence  so  direct  your  course, 
that  we  may  always  be  blessed  with  the  good  news  of  your  exploits  ; and  so  Heaven  be  with 
you,  for  the  longer  you  stay  the  more  you  increase  the  flames  in  the  hearts  of  the  damsels 

that  gaze  on  you.  As  for  this  young,  indiscreet  creature,  I will  take  her  to  task  so  severely 

she  shall  not  misbehave  herself  so  much  as  in  a word  or  look  for  the  future.” 

“ One  word  more,  I beseech  you,  oh,  valorous  Don  Quixote ! ” cried  Altisidora ; “ I beg 

your  pardon  for  saying  you  had  stolen  my  garters,  for,  on  my  conscience,  I have  them  on ; but 

my  thoughts  ran  a wool-gathering,  and  I did  like  the  countryman,  who  looked  for  his  ass  while 
he  was  mounted  on  his  back.” 

Then  Don  Quixote  bowed  his  head,  and,  after  he  had  made  a low  obeisance  to  the  duke, 
the  duchess,  and  all  the  company,  he  turned  about  with  Rozinante  ; and  Sancho  following  him  on 
Dapple,  they  left  the  castle,  and  took  the  road  for  Saragosa. 


CHAPTER  LVIII. 

HOW  ADVENTURES  CROWDED  SO  THICK  AND  THREEFOLD  ON  DON  QUIXOTE,  THAT  THEY  TROD  UPON 

ONE  ANOTHER’S  HEELS. 

DON  QUIXOTE  no  sooner  breathed  the  air  in  the  open  field,  free  from  Altisidora’s 
amorous  importunities,  than  he  fancied  himself  in  his  own  element ; he  thought  he  felt 
the  spirit  of  knight-errantry  reviving  in  his  breast,  and  turning  to  Sancho,  “ Liberty,”  said  he, 
“ friend  Sancho,  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  blessings  that  Heaven  has  bestowed  upon  man- 
kind. Not  all  the  treasures  concealed  in  the  bowels  of  the  earth,  nor  those  in  the  bosom  of 
the  sea,  can  be  compared  with  it.  For  liberty  a man  may — nay,  ought,  to  hazard  even  his  life, 
as  well  as  for  honour,  accounting  captivity  the  greatest  misery  he  can  endure.  I tell  thee  this, 
my  Sancho,  because  thou  wert  a witness  of  the  good  cheer  and  plenty  which  we  met  with  in 
the  castle  ; yet,  in  the  midst  of  those  delicious  feasts,  among  those  tempting  dishes,  and  those 
liquors  cooled  with  snow,  metiiought  I suffered  the  extremity  of  hunger,  because  I did  not 
enjoy  them  with  that  freedom  as  if  they  had  been  my  own ; for  the  obligations  that  lie  upon 
us  to  make  suitable  returns  for  kindnesses  received  are  ties  that  will  not  let  a generous  mind 
be  free.  Happy  the  man  whom  Heaven  has  blessed  with  bread,  for  which  he  is  obliged  to 
thank  kind  Heaven  alone!” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


745 

For  ail  these  line  words,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ it  is  not  proper  for  us  to  be  unthankful  for 
two  good  hundred  crowns  in  gold,  which  the  duke's  steward  gave  me  in  a little  nurse,  which 
I have  here  and  cherish  in  my  bosom,  as  a relic  against  necessity,  and  a comforting  cordial, 
next  my  heart,  against  all  accidents ; for  we  are  not  like  always  to  meet  with  castles  where  we 
shall  be  made  much  of.” 

The  wandering  knight  and  squire  had  not  ridden  much  more  than  a league  ere  they 
espied  about  a dozen  men,  who  looked  like  country  fellows  sitting  at  their  victuals,  with  their 
cloaks  under  them,  on  the  green  grass,  in  the  middle  of  a meadow.  Near  them  they  saw 
several  white  cloths  or  sheets,  spread  out  and  laid  close  to  one  another,  that  seemed  to  cover 
something.  Don  Quixote  rode  up  to  the  people,  and,  after  he  had  civilly  saluted  them,  asked 
what  they  had  got  under  that  linen. 

“ Sir,”  answered  one  of  the  company,  “ they  are  some  carved  images  that  are  to  be  set 
up  at  an  altar  we  are  erecting  in  our  town.  We  cover  them  lest  they  should  be  sullied,  and 
carry  them  on  our  shoulders  for  fear  they  should  be  broken.” 

“ If  you  please,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I should  be  glad  to  see  them  ; for,  considering  the 
care  you  take  of  them,  they  should  be  pieces  of  value.” 

“ Ay,  marry  are  they,”  quoth  another,  “ or  else  we  are  fearfully  cheated ; for  there  is 
never  an  image  among  them  that  does  not  stand  us  more  than  fifty  ducats  ; and,  that  you  may 
know  I am  no  liar,  do  but  stay  and  you  shall  see  with  your  own  eyes.” 

With  that,  getting  up  on  his  legs,  and  leaving  his  victuals,  he  went  and  took  off  the  cover 
from  one  of  the  figures  that  happened  to  be  St.  George  on  horseback,  and  under  his  feet  a 
serpent  coiled  up,  his  throat  transfixed  with  a lance,  with  the  fierceness  that  is  commonly  repre- 
sented in  the  piece;  and  all,  as  they  use  to  say,  spick  and  span  new,  and  shining  like  beaten 
gold.  Don  Quixote  having  seen  the  image,  “This,”  said  he,  “was  one  of  the  best  knights- 
errant  the  divine  warfare  or  church-militant  ever  had ; his  name  was  Don  St.  George,  and  he 
was  an  extraordinary  protector  of  damsels.  What  is  the  next  ?” 

The  fellow  having  uncovered  it,  it  proved  to  be  St.  Martin  on  horseback. 

“ This  knight,  too,”  said  Don  Quixote  at  the  first  sight,  “ was  one  of  the  Christian  adven- 
turers, and  I am  apt  to  think  he  was  more  liberal  than  valiant ; and  thou  mayst  perceive  it, 
Sancho,  by  his  dividing  his  cloak  with  a poor  man  : he  gave  him  half,  and  doubtless  it  was 
winter  time,  or  else  he  would  have  given  it  him  whole,  he  was  so  charitable.” 

“Not  so  neither,  I fancy,”  quoth  Sancho;  “but  I guess  he  stuck  to  the  proverb,  ‘To  give 
and  keep  what  is  fit  requires  a share  of  wit.’  ” 

Don  Quixote  smiled,  and  desired  the  men  to  show  him  the  next  image,  which  appeared 
to  be  that  of  the  Patron  of  Spain  on  horseback,  with  his  sword  bloody,  trampling  down  Moors, 
and  treading  over  heads. 

“ Ay,  this  is  a knight  indeed ! ” cried  Don  Quixote,  when  he  saw  it ; “ one  of  those  that 
fought  in  the  squadrons  of  the  Saviour  of  the  world.  He  is  called  Don  St.  Jago  Mata 

94 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

Moros,  or  Don  St.  James  the  Moor-killer,  and  may  be  reckoned  one  of  the  most  valorous 
saints  and  professors  of  chivalry  that  the  earth  then  enjoyed,  and  heaven  now  possesses.” 

Then  they  uncovered  another  piece,  which  showed  St.  Paul  falling  from  his  horse,  with 
all  the  circumstances  usually  expressed  in  the  story  of  his  conversion,  and  represented  so 
to  the  life,  that  he  looked  as  if  he  had  been  answering  the  voice  that  spoke  to  him  from 
heaven. 

“ This,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ was  the  greatest  enemy  the  church-militant  had  once,  and 
proved  afterwards  the  greatest  defender  it  will  ever  have.  In  his  life  a true  knight-errant, 
and  in  death  a steadfast  saint ; an  indefatigable  labourer  in  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord,  a 
teacher  of  the  Gentiles,  who  had  heaven  for  his  school,  and  Christ  himself  for  his  master 
and  instructor.” 

Then  Don  Quixote,  perceiving  there  were  no  more  images,  desired  the  men  to  cover  those 
he  had  seen.  “ And  now,  my  good  friends,”  said  he  to  them,  “ I cannot  but  esteem  the  sight 
that  I have  had  of  these  images  as  a happy  omen ; for  these  saints  and  knights  were  of  the 
same  profession  that  I follow,  which  is  that  of  arms.  The  difference  only  lies  in  this  point, 
that  they  were  saints,  and  fought  according  to  the  rules  of  holy  discipline ; and  I am  a sinner, 
and  fight  after  the  manner  of  men.” 

All  this  while  the  men  wondered  at  Don  Quixote’s  figure,  as  well  as  his  discourse,  but 
could  not  understand  one  half  of  what  he  meant ; so  that,  after  they  had  made  an  end 
of  their  dinner,  they  got  up  their  images,  took  their  leave  of  him,  and  continued  their 
journey. 

Sancho  remained  full  of  admiration,  as  if  he  had  never  known  his  master.  He  wondered 
how  he  came  to  know  all  these  things,  and  fancied  there  was  not  that  history  or 

adventure  in  the  world  but  he  had  at  his  fingers’  ends.  “ Faith  and  troth,  master  of  mine,” 

quoth  he,  “ if  what  has  happened  to  us  to-day  may  be  called  an  adventure,  it  is  one  of  the 

sweetest  and  most  pleasant  we  ever  met  with  in  all  our  rambles,  for  we  are  come  off  without 

a dry  basting,  or  the  least  bodily  fear.” 

“ Thou  sayest  well,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ but  I must  tell  thee,  that  seasons  and 
times  are  not  always  the  same,  but  often  take  a different  course ; and  what  the  vulgar  call 
forebodings  and  omens,  for  which  there  are  no  rational  grounds  in  nature,  ought  only  to  be 
esteemed  happy  encounters  by  the  wise.  One  of  these  superstitious  fools,  going  out  of  his 
house  betimes  in  the  morning,  meets  a friar  of  the  blessed  order  of  St.  Francis,  and  starts 
as  if  he  had  met  a griffin,  turns  back,  and  runs  home  again.  Another  wiseacre  happens  to 
throw  down  the  salt  on  the  table-cloth,  and  thereupon  is  sadly  cast  down  himself,  as  if  nature 
were  obliged  to  give  tokens  of  ensuing  disasters  by  such  slight  and  inconsiderable  accidents 
as  these.  A wise  and  truly  religious  man  ought  never  to  pry  into  the  secrets  of  Heaven. 
Scipio,  landing  in  Africa,  stumbled  and  fell  down  as  he  leaped  ashore.  Presently  his  soldiers 
took  this  for  an  ill  omen  ; but  he,  embracing  the  earth,  cried,  ‘ I have  thee  fast,  Africa ; thou 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


747 

shalt  not  escape  me.’  In  this  manner,  Sancho,  I think  it  a very  happy  accident  that  I met 
these  images.” 

“ I think  so,  too,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  I would  fain  know  why  the  Spaniards  call  upon 
that  same  St.  James,  the  destroyer  of  Moors;  just  when  they  are  going  to  give  battle  they  cry, 
‘St.  Jago,  and  close  Spain!’  Pray,  is  Spain  open,  that  it  wants  to  be  closed  up?  What 
do  you  make  of  that  ceremony  ? ” 

“ Thou  art  a very  simple  fellow,  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote.  “ Thou  must  know 
that  Heaven  gave  to  Spain  this  mighty  champion  of  the  Red  Cross  for  its  patron  and 
protector,  especially  in  the  desperate  engagements  which  the  Spaniards  had  with  the  Moors  ; 
and  therefore  they  invoke  him,  in  all  their  martial  encounters,  as  their  protector ; and  many 
times  he  has  been  personally  seen  cutting  and  slaying,  overthrowing,  trampling,  and  destroying 
the  Hagarene  squadrons,  of  which  I could  give  thee  many  examples,  deduced  from  authentic 
Spanish  histories.” 

Thus  discoursing,  they  got  into  a wood  quite  out  of  the  road ; and  on  a sudden  Don 
Quixote,  before  he  knew  where  he  was,  found  himself  entangled  in  some  nets  of  green  thread 
that  were  spread  across  among  the  trees.  Not  being  able  to  imagine  what  it  was,  “ Certainly, 
Sancho,”  cried  he,  “ this  adventure  of  the  nets  must  be  one  of  the  most  unaccountable  that  can 
be  imagined.  Let  me  die  now  if  this  be  not  a stratagem  of  the  evil-minded  necromancers 
that  haunt  me,  to  entangle  me  so  that  I may  not  proceed,  purely  to  revenge  my  contempt  of 
Altisidora’s  addresses.  But  let  them  know,  that  though  these  nets  were  adamantine  chains,  as 
they  are  only  made  of  green  thread,  and  though  they  were  stronger  than  those  in  which  the 
jealous  god  of  blacksmiths  caught  Venus  and  Mars,  I would  break  them  with  as  much  ease 
as  if  they  were  weak  rushes  or  fine  cotton  yarn.”  With  that  the  knight  put  briskly  forwards, 
resolving  to  break  through  and  make  his  words  good  ; but  in  the  very  moment  there  sprung 
from  behind  the  trees  two  most  beautiful  shepherdesses ; at  least,  they  appeared  to  be  so  by 
their  habits,  only  with  this  difference,  that  they  were  richly  dressed  in  gold  brocade.  Their 
flowing  hair  hung  down  about  their  shoulders  in  curls,  as  charming  as  the  sun’s  golden  rays, 
and  circled  on  their  brows  with  garlands  of  green  baize  and  red-flower-gentle  interwoven.  As 
for  their  age,  it  seemed  not  less  than  fifteen,  nor  more  than  eighteen  years.  This  unexpected 
vision  dazzled  and  amazed  Sancho,  surprised  Don  Quixote,  made  even  the  gazing  sun  stop 
short  in  his  career,  and  held  the  surprised  parties  awhile  in  the  same  suspense  and  silence  ; till 
at  last  one  of  the  shepherdesses  opening  her  coral  lips,  “Hold,  sir,”  she  cried;  “pray  do  not 
tear  those  nets  which  we  have  spread  here,  not  to  offend  you,  but  to  divert  ourselves ; and 
because  it  is  likely  you  will  inquire  why  they  are  spread  here,  and  who  we  are,  I shall  tell  you 
in  few  words. 

“ About  two  leagues  from  this  place  lies  a village  where  there  are  many  people  of  quality 
and  good  estates ; among  these,  several  have  made  up  a company — all  of  friends,  neighbours, 
and  relations — to  come  and  take  their  diversion  in  this  place,  which  is  one  of  the  most  delightful 


r4S 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


in  these  parts.  To  this  purpose  we  design  to  set  up  a new  Arcadia.  The  young  men  have 
put  on  the  habit  of  shepherds,  and  ladies  the  dresses  of  shepherdesses.  We  have  got  two 
eclogues  by  heart  ; one  out  of  the  famous  Garcilasso,  and  the  other  out  of  Camoens,  the  most 
excellent  Portuguese  poet ; though,  the  truth  is,  we  have  not  yet  repeated  them,  for  yesterday 
was  but  the  first  day  of  our  coming  hither.  We  have  pitched  some  tents  among  the  trees,  near 
the  banks  of  a large  brook  that  waters  all  these  meadows.  And  last  night  we  spread  these 
nets  to  catch  such  simple  birds  as  our  calls  should  allure  into  the  snare.  Now,  sir,  if  you  please 
to  afford  us  your  company,  you  shall  be  made  very  welcome  and  handsomely  entertained ; for 
we  are  all  disposed  to  pass  the  time  agreeably.” 

“Truly,  fair  lady,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ Actaeon  could  not  be  more  lost  in  admiration 
and  amazement  at  the  sight  of  Diana  bathing  herself  than  I have  been  at  the  appearaace  of 
your  beauty.  I applaud  your  design,  and  return  you  thanks  for  your  obliging  offers  ; assuring 
you  that,  if  it  lies  in  my  power  to  serve  you,  you  may  depend  on  my  obedience  to  your 
commands ; for  my  profession  is  the  very  reverse  of  ingratitude,  and  aims  at  doing  good  to 
all  persons,  especially  those  of  your  merit  and  condition  ; so  that,  were  these  nets  spread 
over  the  surface  of  the  whole  earth,  I would  seek  out  a passage  throughout  new  worlds 

rather  than  I would  break  the  smallest  thread  that  conduces  to  your  pastime.  And  that  you 
may  give  some  credit  to  this  seeming  exaggeration,  know  that  he  who  makes  this  promise  is 
no  less  than  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  if  ever  such  a name  has  reached  your  ears.” 

“Oh,  my  dear,”  cried  the  other  shepherdess,  “what  good  fortune  is  this!  You  see  this 
gentleman  before  us  : I must  tell  you  he  is  the  most  valiant,  the  most  amorous,  and  the  mcst 
complaisant  person  in  the  world,  if  the  history  of  his  exploits,  already  in  print,  does  not  deceive 

us.  I have  read  it,  my  dear  ; and  I hold  a wager  that  honest  fellow  there  by  him  is  one 

Sancho  Panza,  his  squire,  the  most  comical  creature  that  ever  was.” 

“ You  have  nicked  it,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ I am  that  comical  creature,  and  that  very  squire 
you  wot  of ; and  there  is  my  lord  and  master,  the  self-same  historified  and  aforesaid  Don 

Quixote  de  la  Mancha.” 

“ Oh,  pray,  my  dear,”  said  the  other,  “ let  us  entreat  him  to  stay ; our  father  and  our 
brothers  will  be  mighty  glad  of  it.  I have  heard  of  his  valour  and  . his  merit  as  much  as  you 
now  tell  me ; and,  what  is  more,  they  say  he  is  the  most  constant  and  faithful  lover  in  the 
world;  and  that  his  mistress,  whom  they  call  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  bears  the  prize  from  all  the 
beauties  in  Spain.” 

“ It  is  not  without  justice,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ if  your  peerless  charms  do  not  dispute  her 
that  glory.  But,  ladies,  I beseech  you  do  not  endeavour  to  detain  me  ; for  the  indispensable 
duties  of  my  profession  will  not  suffer  me  to  rest  in  one  place.” 

At  the  same  time  came  the  brother  of  one  of  the  shepherdesses,  clad  like  a shepherd,  but 
in  a dress  as  splendid  and  gay  as  those  of  the  young  ladies.  They  told  him  that  the  gentleman 
whom  he  saw  with  them  was  the  valorous  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  and  tiiat  other  Sancho 


Now,  sir,  if  you  please  to  afford  us  your  company,  you  shall  be  made  very  welcome.”—/.  748. 


750 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Panza,  his  squire,  of  whom  he  had  read  the  history.  The  gallant  shepherd  having  saluted  him, 
begged  of  him  so  earnestly  to  grant  them  his  company  to  their  tents,  that  Don  Quixote  was 
forced  to  comply,  and  go  with  them. 

About  the  same  time  the  nets  were  drawn  and  filled  with  divers  little  birds,  who,  being 
deceived  by  the  colour  of  the  snare,  fell  into  the  danger  they  would  have  avoided.  Above 
thirty  persons,  all  gaily  dressed  like  shepherds  and  shepherdesses,  got  together  there,  and  being 
informed  who  Don  Quixote  and  his  squire  were,  they  were  not  a little  pleased,  for  they  were 
already  no  strangers  to  his  history.  In  short,  they  carried  them  to  their  tents,  where  they 
found  a clean,  sumptuous,  and  plentiful  entertainment  ready.  They  obliged  the  knight  to  take 
the  place  of  honour ; and  while  they  sat  at  table  there  was  not  one  that  did  not  gaze  on  him, 
and  wonder  at  so  strangle  a figure. 

At  last,  the  cloth  being  removed,  Don  Quixote,  with  a great  deal  of  gravity,  lifting  up  his 
voice,  “ Of  all  the  sins  that  men  commit,”  said  he,  “ none,  in  my  opinion,  is  so  great  as 
ingratitude,  though  some  think  pride  a greater  ; and  I ground  my  assertion  on  this,  that  hell  is 
said  to  be  full  of  the  ungrateful.  Ever  since  I had  the  use  of  reason  I have  employed  my 
utmost  endeavours  to  avoid  this  crime ; and  if  I am  not  able  to  repay  the  benefits  I receive  in 
their  kind,  at  least  I am  not  wanting  in  real  intentions  of  making  suitable  returns  ; and,  if  that 
be  not  sufficient,  I make  my  acknowledgments  as  public  as  I can  ; for  he  that  proclaims  the 
kindnesses  he  has  received,  shows  his  disposition  to  repay  them  if  he  could  ; and  those  that 
receive  are  generally  inferior  to  those  that  give.  The  Supreme  Being,  who  is  infinitely  above 
all  things,  bestows  his  blessings  on  us  so  much  beyond  the  capacity  of  all  other  benefactors,  that 
all  the  acknowledgments  we  can  make  can  never  hold  proportion  with  his  goodness.  However, 
a thankful  mind  in  some  measure  supplies  its  want  of  power,  with  hearty  desires  and  unfeigned 
expressions  of  a sense  of  gratitude  and  respect.  I am  in  this  condition  as  to  the  civilities  I 
have  been  treated  with  here  ; for  I am  unable  to  make  an  acknowledgment  equal  to  the 
kindnesses  I have  received.  I shall,  therefore,  only  offer  you  what  is  within  the  narrow  limits 
of  my  own  abilities,  which  is  to  maintain,  for  two  whole  days  together,  in  the  middle  of  the 
road  that  leads  to  Saragosa,  that  these  ladies  here,  disguised  in  the  habits  of  shepherdesses, 
are  the  fairest  and  most  courteous  damsels  in  the  world,  excepting  only  the  peerless  Dulcinea 
del  Toboso,  sole  mistress  of  my  thoughts  ; without  offence  to  all  that  hear  me,  be  it  spoken.” 

Here  Sancho,  who  had,  with  an  uncommon  attention,  all  the  while  given  ear  to  his  master’s 
compliment,  thought  fit  to  put  in  a word  or  two.  “ Now,  in  the  name  of  wonder,”  quoth  he, 

“ can  there  be  anybody  in  the  world  so  impudent  as  to  offer  to  swear  or  but  to  say  this 
master  of  mine  is  a madman  ? Pray,  tell  me,  ye  gentlemen  shepherds,  did  you  ever  know  any  oi 
, your  country  parsons,  though  never  so  wise  or  so  good  scholards,  that  could  deliver  themselves 
so  finely  ? Or  is  there  any  of  your  knights-errant,  though  never  so  famed  for  prowess,  that 
can  make  such  an  offer  as  he  has  here  done  ? ” 

Don  Quixote  turned  towards  Sancho,  and,  beholding  him  with  eyes  full  of  fiery  indignation. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


75  1 


“ Can  there  be  anybody  in  the  world,”  cried  he,  “ that  can  say  thou  art  not  an  incorrigible 
blockhead,  Sancho — a compound  of  folly  and  knavery,  wherein  malice  also  is  no  small  ingredient  ? 
Who  bids  thee  meddle  with  my  concerns,  fellow,  or  busy  thyself  with  my  folly  or  discretion  ? 
Hold  your  saucy  tongue,  scoundrel ! Make  no  reply,  but  go  and  saddle  Rozinante,  if  he  is 
unsaddled,  that  I may  immediately  perform  what  I have  offered.” 

This  said,  up  he  started,  in  a dreadful  fury  and  with  marks  of  anger  in  his  looks,  to  the 
amazement  of  all  the  company,  who  were  at  a loss  whether  they  should  esteem  him  a madman 
or  a man  of  sense.  They  endeavoured  to  prevail  with  him  to  lay  aside  his  challenges,  telling 
him  they  were  sufficiently  assured  of  his  grateful  nature,  without  exposing  him  to  the  danger 
of  such  demonstrations  ; and  as  for  his  valour,  they  were  so  well  informed  by  the  history  of 
his  numerous  achievements,  that  there  was  no  need  of  any  new  instance  to  convince  them  of 
it.  But  all  these  representations  could  not  dissuade  him  from  his  purpose ; and,  therefore,  having 
mounted  Rozinante,  braced  his  shield,  and  grasped  his  lance,  he  went  and  posted  himself  in  the 
middle  of  the  highway,  not  far  from  the  verdant  meadow,  followed  by  Sancho  on  his  Dapple, 
and  all  the  pastoral  society,  who  were  desirous  to  see  the  event  of  that  arrogant  and  unaccount- 
able resolution. 

And  now  the  champion,  having  taken  his  ground,  made  the  neighbouring  air  ring  with  the 
following  challenge  : — ■ 

“ Oh,  ye,  whoever  you  are,  knights,  squires,  on  foot  or  on  horseback,  that  now  pass,  or  shall 
pass  this  road  within  these  two  days,  know  that  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  knight-errant,  stays 
here  to  assert  and  maintain  that  the  nymphs  who  inhabit  these  groves  and  meadows  surpass, 
in  beauty  and  courteous  disposition,  all  those  in  the  universe,  setting  aside  the  sovereign  of  my 
soul,  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso;  and  he  that  dares  uphold  the  contrary,  let  him  appear, 
for  here  I expect  his  coming.” 

Twice  he  repeated  these  lofty  words,  and  twice  they  were  repeated  in  vain,  not  being 
heard  by  any  adventurer.  But  his  old  friend  Fortune,  that  had  a strange  hand  at  managing 
his  concerns,  and  always  mended  upon  it,  showed  him  a jolly  sight ; for  by-and-by  he 
discovered  on  the  road  a great  number  of  people  on  horseback,  many  of  them  with  lances  in 
their  hands,  all  trooping  together  very  fast.  The  company  that  watched  Don  Quixote’s  motions 
no  sooner  spied  such  a squadron,  driving  the  dust  before  them,  than  they  got  out  of  harm’s 
way,  not  judging  it  safe  to  be  so  near  danger;  and  as  for  Sancho,  he  sheltered  himself  behind 
Rozinante’s  crupper.  Only  Don  Quixote  stood  fixed,  with  an  undaunted  courage.  When  the 
horsemen  came  near,  one  of  the  foremost,  bawling  to  the  champion,  “ So  hey  ! ” cried  he,  “ get 
out  of  the  way,  and  be  hanged.  Mischief  is  in  the  fellow ! stand  off,  or  the  bulls  will  tread 
thee  to  pieces.” 

“ Go  to,  you  scoundrels,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ none  of  your  bulls  are  anything  to  me, 
though  the  fiercest  that  ever  were  fed  on  the  banks  of  Xarama.  Acknowledge,  hang-dogs,  all 
in  a body,  what  I have  proclaimed  here  to  be  truth,  or  else  stand  combat  with  me.” 


They  trampled  them  under  foot  at  an  unmerciful  rate.”—/.  753 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


753 


But  the  herdsmen  had  not  time  to  answer,  neither  had  Don  Quixote  any  to  get  out  of 
the  way,  if  he  had  been  inclined  to  it ; for  the  herd  of  wild  bulls  were  presently  upon  him,  as 
they  poured  along,  with  several  tame  cows,  and  a huge  company  of  drivers  and  people,  that 
were  going  to  a town  where  they  were  to  be  baited  the  next  day.  So,  bearing  all  down  before 
them,  knight  and  squire,  horse  and  man,  they  trampled  them  under  foot  at  an  unmerciful  rate, 
There  lay  Sancho  mauled,  Don  Quixote  stunned,  Dapple  bruised,  and  Rozinante  in  very 
indifferent  circumstances.  But  for  all  this,  after  the  whole  party  of  men  and  beasts  were  gone 
by,  up  started  Don  Quixote,  ere  he  was  thoroughly  come  to  himself,  and  staggering  and 
stumbling,  falling  and  getting  up  again,  as  fast  as  he  could,  he  began  to  run  after  them. 

“Stop,  scoundrels,  stop!”  cried  he  aloud;  “stay,  it  is  a single  knight  defies  you  all,  one 
who  scorns  the  humour  of  making  a golden  bridge  for  a flying  enemy.” 

But  the  hasty  travellers  did  not  stop,  nor  slacken  their  speed,  for  all  his  loud  defiance, 
and  minded  it  no  more  than  the  last  year’s  snow. 

At  last  weariness  stopped  Don  Quixote ; so  that,  with  all  his  anger,  and  no  prospect  of 
revenge,  he  was  forced  to  sit  down  on  the  road,  till  Sancho  came  up  to  him  with  Rozinante 
and  Dapple.  Then  the  master  and  man  made  a shift  to  re-mount ; and,  ashamed  of  their  bad 
success,  hastened  their  journey,  without  taking  leave  of  their  friends  of  the  new  Arcadia. 


05 


CHAPTER  LIX. 


OF  AN  EXTRAORDINARY  ACCIDENT  THAT  HAPPENED  TO  DON  QUIXOTE,  WHICH  MAY  WELL  PASS  FOR  AN 

ADVENTURE. 

A CLEAR  fountain,  which  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  found  among  some  verdant  trees, 
served  to  refresh  them,  besmeared  with  dust  and  tired  as  they  were,  after  the  rude 
encounter  of  the  bulls.  There,  by  the  brink,  leaving  Rozinante  and  Dapple,  unbridled  and 
unhaltered,  to  their  own  liberty,  the  two  forlorn  adventurers  sat  down.  Sancho  washed  his 
mouth,  and  Don  Quixote  his  face.  The  squire  then  went  to  his  old  cupboard,  the  wallet,  and 
having  taken  out  of  it  what  he  used  to  call  belly-timber,  laid  it  before  the  knight.  Don 
Quixote  gave  him  thanks,  ate  a little,  and  Sancho  a great  deal ; and  then  both  betook 
themselves  to  their  rest,  leaving  those  constant  friends  and  companions,  Rozinante  and  Dapple,  to 
their  own  discretion,  to  repose  or  feed  at  random  on  the  pasture  that  abounded  in  that  meadow. 

The  day  was  now  far  gone,  when  the  knight  and  the  squire  waked.  They  mounted,  and 
held  on  their  journey,  making  the  best  of  their  way  to  an  inn,  that  seemed  to  be  about  a 
league  distant. 

Being  got  thither,  they  asked  the  innkeeper  whether  he  had  got  any  lodgings. 

“Yes,”  answered  he,  “and  as  good  accommodation  as  you  could  expect  to  find  even  in 
the  city  of  Saragosa.” 


“A  clear  fountain,  which  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  found  among  some  verdant  trees,  served  to  refresh  them.”—/.  754. 


756 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


They  alighted,  and  Sancho  put  up  his  baggage  in  a chamber,  of  which  the  landlord  gave 
him  the  key  ; and,  after  he  had  seen  Rozinante  and  Dapple  well  provided  for  in  the  stable, 
he  went  to  wait  on  his  master,  whom  he  found  sitting  upon  a seat  made  in  the  wall,  the 
squire  blessing  himself  more  than  once  that  the  knight  had  not  taken  the  inn  for  a castle. 
Supper-time  approaching,  Don  Quixote  retired  to  his  apartment,  and  Sancho,  staying  with 
his  host,  asked  him  what  he  had  to  give  them  for  supper. 

“What  you  will,”  answered  he.  “You  may  pick  and  choose  : fish  or  flesh,  butcher’s  meat 
or  poultry,  wild  fowl,  and  what  not.  Whatever  land,  sea,  and  air  afford  for  food,  it  is  but 
ask  and  have ; everything  is  to  be  had  in  this  inn.” 

“ There  is  no  need  of  all  this,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ a couple  of  roasted  chickens  will  do  our 
business,  for  my  master  has  a nice  stomach,  and  eats  but  little ; and  as  for  me,  I am  none 
of  your  unreasonable  trencher  men.” 

“ As  for  chickens,”  replied  the  innkeeper,  “ we  have  none,  for  the  kites  have  devoured  them.” 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ roast  us  a good  handsome  pullet,  with  eggs,  so  it  be 
young  and  tender.” 

“ A pullet,  master  ! ” answered  the  host ; “ faith  and  troth,  I sent  above  fifty  yesterday  to 

the  city  to  sell  ; but,  setting  aside  pullets,  you  may  have  anything  else.” 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ even  give  us  a good  joint  of  veal  or  kid.” 

“Cry  you  mercy!”  replied  the  innkeeper;  “now  I remember  me,  we  have  none  left  in 
the  house ; the  last  company  that  went  cleared  me  quite ; but  by  next  week  we  shall  have- 
enough,  and  to  spare.” 

“ We  are  finely  holped  up,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ Now  will  I hold  a good  wager,  all  these 
defects  must  be  made  up  with  a dish  of  eggs  and  bacon.” 

“ Hey  day  ! ” cried  the  host,  “ my  guest  has  a rare  knack  at  guessing,  i’  faith.  I told  him 

I had  no  hens  nor  pullets  in  the  house,  and  yet  he  would  have  me  to  have  eggs  ! Think  on 

something  else,  1 beseech  you,  and  let  us  talk  no  more  of  that.” 

“Bless  me!”  cried  Sancho,  “let  us  come  to  something;  tell  me  what  thou  hast,  good 
Mr.  Landlord,  and  do  not  put  me  to  trouble  my  brains  any  longer.” 

“ Why,  then,  do  you  see,”  quoth  the  host,  “ to  deal  plainly  with  you,  I have  a delicate 
pair  of  cow-heels,  that  look  like  calves’  feet,  or  a pair  of  calves’  feet  that  look  like  cow-heels, 
dressed  with  onions,  pease,  and  bacon — a dish  for  a prince;  they  are  just  ready  to  be  taken  off, 
and  by  this  time  they  cry,  ‘ Come,  eat  me ; come,  eat  me.’  ” 

“ Cow-heels  ! ” cried  Sancho  ; “ I set  my  mark  on  them  ; let  nobody  touch  them.  I will 
give  more  for  them  than  any  other  shall.  There  is  nothing  I love  better.” 

“Nobody  else  shall  have  them,”  answered  the  host;  “ you  need  not  fear,  for  all  the  guests 
I have  in  the  house,  besides  yourselves,  are  persons  of  quality,  that  carry  their  steward,  their 
cook,  and  their  provisions  along  with  them.” 

“ As  for  quality,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ my  master  is  a person  of  as  good  quality  as  the  proudest 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


757 


he  of  them  all,  if  you  go  to  that,  but  his  profession  allows  of  no  larders  nor  butteries.  We 
commonly  clap  us  down  in  the  midst  of  a held,  and  fill  our  bellies  with  acorns  or  medlars.” 

This  was  the  discourse  that  passed  betwixt  Sancho  and  the  innkeeper ; for  as  to  the 
host’s  interrogatories  concerning  his  master’s  profession,  Sancho  was  not  then  at  leisure  to  make 
him  any  answer. 

In  short,  supper-time  came,  Don  Quixote  went  to  his  room,  the  host  brought  the  dish  of 
cow-heels,  such  as  it  was,  and  set  him  down  fairly  to  supper.  But  at  the  same  time,  in  the 
next  room,  which  was  divided  from  that  where  they  were  by  a slender  partition,  the  knight 
overheard  somebody  talking. 

“ Dear  Don  Jeronimo,”  said  the  unseen  person,  “ I beseech  you,  till  supper  is  brought  in 
let  us  read  another  chapter  of  the  second  part  of  ‘ Don  Quixote.’  ” The  champion  no  sooner 
heard  himself  named  than  up  he  started,  and  listened,  with  attentive  ears,  to  what  was  said  of 

him  ; and  then  he  heard  that  Don  Jeronimo  answer,  “ Why  would  you  have  us  read  nonsense, 

Signor  Don  John?  Methinks  any  one  that  has  read  the  first  part  of  ‘Don  Quixote’  should 
take  but  little  delight  in  reading  the  second.” 

“ That  may  be,”  replied  Don  John  ; “ however,  it  may  not  be  amiss  to  read  it,  for  there  is 
no  book  so  bad  as  not  to  have  something  that  is  good  in  it.  What  displeases  me  most  in 
this  part  is,  that  it  represents  Don  Quixote  no  longer  in  love  with  Dulcinea  del  Toboso.” 

Upon  these  words,  Don  Quixote,  burning  with  anger  and  indignation,  cried  out,  “Whoever 
says  that  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  has  forgotten  or  can  forget  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  I will 

make  him  know,  with  equal  arms,  that  he  departs  wholly  from  the  truth ; for  the  peerless 

Dulcinea  del  Toboso  cannot  be  forgotten,  nor  can  Don  Quixote  be  guilty  of  forgetfulness. 
Constancy  is  his  motto ; and  to  preserve  his  fidelity  with  pleasure,  and  without  the  least 
constraint,  is  his  profession.” 

“ Who  is  he  that  answers  us  ? ” cries  one  of  those  in  the  next  room. 

“ Who  should  it  be  ? ” quoth  Sancho,  “ but  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  his  own  self,  the 
same  that  will  make  good  all  he  has  said  and  all  he  has  to  say,  take  my  word  for  it;  for  a 
good  paymaster  never  grudges  to  give  security.” 

Sancho  had  no  sooner  made  that  answer  than  in  came  the  two  gentlemen  (for  they 
appeared  to  be  no  less),  and  one  of  them,  throwing  his  arms  about  Don  Quixote’s  neck,  “Your 
presence,  Sir  Knight,”  said  he,  “ does  not  belie  your  reputation,  nor  can  your  reputation  fail  to 
raise  a respect  for  your  presence.  You  are  certainly  the  true  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  the 
north  star  and  luminary  of  chivalry-errant,  in  despite  of  him  that  has  attempted  to  usurp  your 
name  and  annihilate  your  achievements,  as  the  author  of  this  book,  which  I here  deliver  into 
your  hands,  has  presumed  to  do.”  With  that  he  took  the  book  from  his  friend  and  gave  it  to 
Don  Quixote. 

The  knight  took  it,  and,  without  saying  a word,  began  to  turn  over  the  leaves  ; and  then, 
returning  it  a while  after.  “ In  the  little  I have  seen,”  said  he,  “ I have  found  three  things  in  this 


758 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


author  that  deserve  reprehension.  First,  I find  fault  with  some  words  in  his  preface.  In  the 
second  place,  his  language  is  Arragonian,  for  sometimes  he  writes  without  articles.  And  the 
third  thing  I have  observed,  which  betrays  most  his  ignorance,  is,  he  is  out  of  the  way  in 
one  of  the  principal  parts  of  the  history  ; for  there  he  says  that  the  wife  of  my  squire,  Sancho 
Panza,  is  called  Mary  Gutierrez,  which  is  not  true,  for  her  name  is  Teresa  Panza ; and  he 
that  errs  in  so  considerable  a passage  may  well  be  suspected  to  have  committed  many  gross 
errors  through  the  whole  history.” 

“ A pretty  impudent  fellow  is  this  same  history-writer  ! ” cried  Sancho.  “ Sure  he  knows 
much  what  belongs  to  our  concerns,  to  call  my  wife  Teresa  Panza,  Mary  Gutierrez ! Pray,  take 
the  book  again,  if  it  like  your  worship,  and  see  whether  he  says  anything  of  me,  and  whether 
he  has  not  changed  my  name  too.” 

“Sure,  by  what  you  have  said,  honest  man,”  said  Don  Jeronimo,  “you  should  be  Sancho 
Panza,  squire  to  Signor  Don  Quixote.” 

“So  I am,”  quoth  Sancho,  “and  I am  proud  of  the  office.” 

“Well,”  said  the  gentleman,  “to  tell  you  the  truth,  the  last  author  does  not  treat  you  so 
civilly  as  you  seem  to  deserve.  He  represents  you  as  a glutton  and  a fool,  without  the  least 
grain  of  wit  or  humour,  and  very  different  from  the  Sancho  we  have  in  the  first  part  of  your 
master’s  history.” 

“Heaven  forgive  him!”  quoth  Sancho;  “he  might  have  left  me  where  I was,  without 
offering  to  meddle  with  me.  ‘ Every  man’s  nose  will  not  make  a shoeing  horn.’  Let  us  leave 
the  world  as  it  is.  ‘ St.  Peter  is  very  well  at  Rome.’  ” 

Presently  the  two  gentlemen  invited  Don  Quixote  to  sup  with  them  in  their  chamber,  for 
they  knew  there  was  nothing  to  be  got  in  the  inn  fit  for  his  entertainment.  Don  Quixote,  who 
was  always  very  complaisant,  could  not  deny  their  request,  and  went  with  them.  Sancho  stayed 
behind  with  the  flesh-pot.  and  placed  himself  at  the  upper  end  of  the  table,  with  the  innkeeper 
for  his  messmate,  who  was  no  less  a lover  of  cow-heels  than  the  squire. 

While  Don  Quixote  was  at  supper  with  the  gentlemen,  Don  John  asked  him  when  he 
heard  of  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso.  With  that  he  told  the  gentlemen  the  whole  story  of 
her  beinsf  enchanted,  what  had  befallen  him  in  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  and  the  means  that 
the  sage  Merlin  had  prescribed  to  free  her  from  enchantment,  which  was  Sancho’s  penance 
of  three  thousand  three  hundred  lashes.  The  gentlemen  were  extremely  pleased  to  hear  from 
Don  Quixote’s  own  mouth  the  strange  passages  of  his  history,  equally  wondering  at  the  nature 
of  his  extravagances  and  his  elegant  manner  of  relating  them.  One  minute  they  looked  upon 
him  to  be  in  his  senses,  and  the  next  they  thought  he  had  lost  them  all,  so  that  they  could 
not  resolve  what  degree  to  assign  him  between  madness  and  sound  judgment. 

They  asked  him  which  way  he  was  travelling.  He  told  them  he  was  going  to  Saragosa, 
to  make  one  at  the  tournaments  held  in  that  city  once  a year,  for  the  prize  of  armour.  Don  John 
acquainted  him  that  the  pretended  second  part  of  his  history  gave  an  account  how  Don 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


759 


Quixote,  whoever  he  was,  had  been  at  Saragosa,  at  a public  running  at  the  ring,  the  descrip- 
tion of  which  was  wretched  and  defective  in  the  contrivance,  and  mean  and  low  in  the  style. 

“ For  that  reason,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  not  set  a foot  in  Saragosa  ; and  so  the 
world  shall  see  what  a notorious  lie  this  new  historian  is  guilty  of,  and  all  mankind  shall 
perceive  I am  not  the  Don  Quixote  he  speaks  of.” 

“You  do  very  well,”  said  Don  Jeronimo;  “besides,  there  is  another  tournament  at 
Barcelona,  where  you  may  signalise  your  valour.” 

“ I design  to  do  so,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ and  so,  gentlemen,  give  me  leave  to  bid  you 
good  night,  and  permit  me  to  go  to  bed,  for  it  is  time  ; and  pray  place  me  in  the  number  of 
your  best  friends,  and  most  faithful  servants.” 

“ And  me  too,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ for  mayhap  you  may  find  me  good  for  something.” 

Having  taken  leave  of  one  another,  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  retired  to  their  chamber, 
leaving  the  two  strangers  fully  satisfied  that  these  two  persons  were  the  true  Don  Quixote  and 
Sancho,  and  not  those  obtruded  upon  the  public  by  the  Arragonian  author. 

Early  in  the  morning  Don  Quixote  got  up,  and,  knocking  at  a thin  wall  that  parted  his 
chamber  from  that  of  the  gentlemen,  took  his  leave  of  them.  Sancho  paid  the  host  nobly,  but 
advised  him  either  to  keep  better  provisions  in  his  inn  or  to  commend  it  less. 


CHAPTER  LX. 


WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  GOING  TO  BARCELONA. 


THE  morning  was  cool,  and  seemed  to  promise  a temperate  day,  when  Don  Quixote 
left  the  inn,  having  first  informed  himself  which  was  the  readiest  way  to  Barcelona ; 
for  he  was  resolved  he  would  not  so  much  as  see  Saragosa,  that  he  might  prove  that  new 
author  a liar,  who,  as  he  was  told,  had  so  misrepresented  him  in  the  pretended  second  part  of 
his  history.  For  the  space  of  six  days  he  travelled  without  meeting  any  adventure  worthy 
of  memory ; but  the  seventh,  having  lost  his  way,  and  being  overtaken  by  the  night,  he  was 
obliged  to  stop  in  a thicket,  either  of  oaks  or  cork-trees,  for  in  this  Cid  Hamet  does  not 

observe  the  same  punctuality  he  has  kept  in  other  matters.  There  both  master  and  man 

dismounted,  and  laying  themselves  down  at  the  foot  of  the  trees,  Sancho,  who  had  handsomely 
filled  his  belly  that  day,  easily  resigned  himself  into  the  arms  of  sleep.  But  Don  Quixote, 
whom  his  chimeras  kept  awake  much  more  than  hunger,  could  not  so  much  as  close  his  eyes, 
his  working  thoughts  being  hurried  to  a thousand  several  places.  This  time  he  fancied  him- 
self in  the  cave  of  Montesinos,  imagining  he  saw  his  Dulcinea,  perverted  as  she  was  into  a country 

hoyden,  jump  at  a single  leap  upon  her  ass  colt.  The  next  moment  he  thought  he  heard  the 

sage  Merlin’s  voice — heard  him  in  awful  words  relate  the  means  required  to  effect  her  disen- 


9d 


“He  tCiCl  the  gentlemen  me  nmole  story  of  her  being  enchanted.” — /■  762 


762 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


chantment.  Presently  a fit  of  despair  seized  him  ; he  was  stark  mad  to  think  on  Sancho’s 
remissness  and  want  of  charity,  the  squire  having  not  given  himself  above  five  lashes,  a small 
and  inconsiderable  number,  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  the  penance  still  behind.  This 
reflection  so  nettled  him,  and  so  aofsravatecl  his  vexation,  that  he  could  not  forbear  thinking  on 
some  extraordinary  methods.  “ If  Alexander  the  Great,”  thought  he,  “when  he  could  not  untie 
the  Gordian  knot,  said,  ‘ It  is  the  same  thing  to  cut  or  to  undo,’  and  so  slashed  it  asunder, 
and  yet  became  the  sovereign  of  the  world,  why  may  not  I free  Dulcinea  from  enchantment  by 
whipping  Sancho  myself,  whether  he  will  or  no  ? For,  if  the  condition  of  this  remedy  consists 
in  Sancho’s  receiving  three  thousand  and  odd  lashes,  what  does  it  signify  to  me  whether  he 

gives  himself  those  blows,  or  another  gives  them  him,  since  the  stress  lies  upon  his  receiving 

them,  by  what  means  soever  they  are  given  ? ” Full  of  that  conceit,  he  came  up  to  Sancho, 
having  first  taken  the  reins  of  Rozinante’s  bridle,  and  fitted  them  to  his  purpose  of  lashing 
him  with  them.  He  then  began  to  untruss  Sancho’s  points;  but  he  no  sooner  fell  to  work 
than  Sancho  started  out  of  his  sleep,  and  was  thoroughly  awake  in  an  instant.  “ What  is 
here  ? ” cried  he. 

“ It  is  I,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ I am  come  to  repair  thy  negligence,  and  to  seek 
the  remedy  of  my  torments.  I am  come  to  whip  thee,  Sancho,  and  to  discharge,  in  part  at 
least,  that  debt  for  which  thou  standest  engaged.  Dulcinea  perishes,  while  thou  livest  careless 
of  her  fate,  and  I die  with  desire.  Untruss,  therefore,  freely  and  willingly,  for  I am  resolved 

while  we  are  here  alone  in  this  recess,  to  give  thee  at  least  two  thousand  stripes.” 

“Hold  you  there,”  quoth  Sancho;  “ pray  be  quiet,  will  you?  Bless  me!  let  me  alone, 

or  I protest  deaf  men  shall  hear  us.  The  jerks  I am  bound  to  give  myself  are  to  be  volun- 

tary, not  forced  ; and  at  this  time  I have  no  mind  to  be  whipped  at  all.  Let  it  suffice  that 
I promise  you  to  scourge  myself  when  the  humour  takes  me.” 

“ No,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ there  is  no  standing  to  thy  courtesy,  Sancho,  for  thou  art 
hard-hearted  ; and,  though  a clown,  yet  thou  art  tender  of  thy  flesh  ; ” and  so  saying,  he 
strove  with  all  his  force  to  untie  the  squire’s  points ; which,  when  Sancho  perceived,  he 
started  up  on  his  legs,  and,  setting  upon  his  master,  closed  with  him,  tripped  up  his  heels, 

threw  him  fairly  upon  his  back,  and  then  set  his  knee  upon  his  breast,  and  held  his  hands 

fast,  so  that  he  could  hardly  stir,  or  fetch  his  breath.  Don  Quixote,  overpowered  thus,  cried, 
“How  now,  traitor ! what!  rebel  against  thy  master — against  thy  natural  lord — against  him  that 
gives  thee  bread  ! ” 

“ I neither  mar  king  nor  make  king,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “I  do  but  defend  myself,  that  am 
naturally  my  own  lord.  If  your  worship  will  promise  to  let  me  alone,  and  give  over  the 
thoughts  of  whipping  me  at  this  time,  I will  let  you  rise,  and  will  leave  you  at  liberty ; if 
not,  here  thou  diest,  traitor  to  Donna  Sancho.” 

Don  Quixote  gave  his  parole  of  honour,  and  swore  by  the  life  of  his  best  thoughts  not 
to  touch  so  much  as  a hair  of  Sancho’s  coat,  but  entirely  leave  it  to  his  discretion  to  whip 


“ He  called  out  to  Don  Quixote  for  help.”-  -p.  764. 


jo4 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


himself  when  he  thought  fit.  With  that  Sancho  got  up  from  him,  and  removed  his  quarters 
to  another  place  at  a good  distance ; but  as  he  went  to  lean  against  a tree  he  perceived 
something  bobbing  at  his  head,  and,  lifting  up  his  hands,  found  it  to  be  a man’s  feet,  with 
shoes  and  stockings  on.  Quaking  for  fear,  he  moved  off  to  another  tree,  where  the  like 
impending  horror  dangled  over  his  head.  Straight  he  called  out  to  Don  Quixote  for  help, 
Don  Quixote  came,  and  inquired  into  the  occasion  of  his  fright.  Sancho  answered,  that  all 
those  trees  were  full  of  men’s  feet  and  legs.  Don  Quixote  began  to  search  and  grope  about, 
and  falling  presently  into  the  account  of  the  business,  “ Fear  nothing,  Sancho,”  said  he,  “ there 
is  no  danger  at  all ; for  what  thou  feelest  in  the  dark  are  certainly  the  feet  and  legs  of  some 
banditti  and  robbers  that  have  been  hanged  upon  those  trees,  for  here  the  officers  of  justice 
hang  them  up  by  twenties  and  thirties  in  clusters,  by  which  I suppose  we  cannot  be  far  from 
Barcelona ; ” and  indeed  he  guessed  right. 

And  now,  day  breaking,  they  lifted  up  their  eyes,  and  saw  the  bodies  of  the  highwaymen 
hanging  on  the  trees.  But  if  the  dead  surprised  them,  how  much  more  were  they  disturbed 
at  the  appearance  of  above  forty  live  banditti,  who  poured  upon  them,  and  surrounded  them 
on  a sudden,  charging  them  in  the  Catalan  tongue  to  stand  till  their  captain  came  ! 

Don  Quixote  found  himself  on  foot,  his  horse  unbridled,  his  lance  against  a tree  at  some 
distance,  and,  in  short,  void  of  all  defence ; and,  therefore,  he  was  forced  to  put  his  arms 
across,  hold  down  his  head,  and  shrug  up  his  shoulders,  reserving  himself  for  a better  opportunity. 
The  robbers  presently  fell  to  work,  and  began  to  rifle  Dapple,  leaving  on  his  back  nothing  of 
what  he  carried,  either  in  the  wallet  or  the  cloak-bag ; and  it  was  very  well  for  Sancho  that 
the  duke’s  pieces  of  gold,  and  those  he  brought  from  home,  were  hidden  in  a girdle  about  his 
waist ; though,  for  all  that,  those  honest  gentlemen  would  certainly  have  taken  the  pains  to 
have  searched  and  surveyed  him  all  over,  and  would  have  had  the  gold,  though  they  had 
stripped  him  of  his  skin  to  come  at  it ; but  by  good  fortune  their  captain  came  in  the  interim. 
He  seemed  about  four-and-thirty  years  of  age,  his  body  robust,  his  stature  tall,  his  visage 

austere,  and  his  complexion  swarthy.  He  was  mounted  on  a strong  horse,  wore  a coat  of 

mail,  and  no  less  than  two  pistols  on  each  side.  Perceiving  that  his  squires  (for  so  they  call 

men  of  that  profession  in  those  parts)  were  going  to  strip  Sancho,  he  ordered  them  to  forbear, 

and  was  instantly  obeyed  ; by  which  means  the  girdle  escaped.  He  wondered  to  see  a lance 
reared  up  against  a tree,  a shield  on  the  ground,  and  Don  Quixote  in  armour,  and  pensive, 
with  the  saddest,  most  melancholy  countenance  that  despair  itself  could  frame.  Coming  up  to 
him,  “ Be  not  so  sad,  honest  man,”  said  he ; “ you  have  not  fallen  into  the  hands  of  some 
cruel  Busiris,  but  into  those  of  Roque  Guinart,  a man  rather  compassionate  than  severe.” 

“ I am  not  sad,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ for  having  fallen  into  thy  power,  valorous  Roque, 
whose  boundless  fame  spreads  through  the  universe,  but  for  having  been  so  remiss  as  to  be 
surprised  by  thy  soldiers  with  my  horse  unbridled  ; whereas,  according  to  the  order  of  chivalry- 
errant,  which  I profess,  I am  obliged  to  live  always  upon  my  guard,  and  at  all  hours  be  my 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


765 


ov/n  sentinel ; for,  let  me  tell  thee,  great  Roque,  had  they  met  me  mounted  on  my  steed,  armed 
with  my  shield  and  lance,  they  would  have  found  it  no  easy  task  to  make  me  yield ; for  know, 
I am  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  the  same  whose  exploits  are  celebrated  through  all  the 
habitable  globe.” 

Roque  Guinart  found  out  immediately  Don  Quixote’s  blind  side,  and  judged  there  was 
more  madness  than  valour  in  the  case.  Now,  though  he  had  several  times  heard  him  mentioned 
in  discourse,  he  could  never  believe  what  was  related  of  him  to  be  true,  nor  could  he  be 
persuaded  that  such  a humour  should  reign  in  any  man  ; for  which  reason  he  was  very  glad 
to  have  met  him,  that  experience  might  convince  him  of  the  truth.  Therefore,  addressing  himself 
to  him,  “Valorous  knight,”  said  he,  “vex  not  yourself,  nor  tax  fortune  with  unkindness;  for 
it  may  happen  that  what  you  look  upon  now  as  a sad  accident  may  redound  to  your  advantage. 

Don  Quixote  was  going  to  return  him  thanks,  when  from  behind  them  they  heard  a noise 
like  the  trampling  of  several  horses,  though  it  was  occasioned  but  by  one  ; on  which  came, 
full  speed,  a person  that  looked  like  a gentleman,  about  twenty  years  of  age.  He  was  clad 
in  green  damask,  edged  with  gold  galloon,  suitable  to  his  waistcoat,  and  a hat  turned  up 
behind ; straight  wax-leather  boots ; his  spurs,  sword,  and  dagger,  gilt ; a light  bird-piece  in  his 
hand,  and  a case  of  pistols  before  him.  Roque,  having  turned  his  head  to  the  noise,  discovered 
the  handsome  apparition,  which,  approaching  nearer,  spoke  to  him  in  this  manner— “You  are 
the  gentleman  I looked  for,  valiant  Roque ; for  with  you  I may  perhaps  find  some  comfort, 
though  not  a remedy  in  my  affliction.  In  short,  not  to  hold  you  in  suspense  (for  I am 
sensible  you  do  not  know  me),  I will  tell  you  who  I am.  My  name  is  Claudia  Jeronima  ; I 
am  the  daughter  of  your  particular  friend,  Simon  Forte,  sworn  foe  to  Clauquel  Torrelas,  who 
is  also  your  enemy,  being  one  of  your  adverse  faction.  You  already  know  this  Torrelas  had 
a son  whom  they  called  Don  Vincente  Torrelas ; at  least,  he  was  called  so  within  these  two 
hours.  That  son  of  his,  to  be  short  in  my  sad  story,  I will  tell  you  in  four  words  what 
sorrow  he  has  brought  me  to.  He  saw  me,  courted  me,  was  heard,  and  was  beloved.  In 
short,  he  made  me  a promise  of  marriage,  and  I the  like  to  him.  Now,  yesterday  I understood 
that,  forgetting  his  engagements  to  me,  he  was  going  to  wed  another,  and  that  they  were  to 
be  married  this  morning;  a piece  of  news  that  quite  distracted  me,  and  made  me  lose  all 
patience.  Therefore,  my  father  being  out  of  town,  I took  the  opportunity  of  equipping  myself 
as  you  see,  and,  by  the  speed  of  this  horse,  overtook  Don  Vincente  about  a league  hence, 

where,  without  urging  my  wrongs,  or  staying  to  hear  his  excuses,  I fired  at  him,  not  only 

with  this  piece,  but  with  both  my  pistols,  and,  as  I believe,  shot  him  through  the  body.  This 
done,  there  I left  him  to  his  servants,  who  neither  dared  nor  could  prevent  the  sudden 
■execution,  and  came  to  seek  your  protection,  that  by  your  means  I may  be  conducted  into 

France,  where  I have  relations  to  entertain  me ; and  withal  to  beg  of  you  to  defend  my 

father  from  Don  Vincente’s  party,  who  might  otherwise  revenge  his  death  upon  our  family.” 

Roque,  admiring  at  once  the  resolution,  agreeable  deportment,  and  handsome  figure  of  the 


766 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


beautiful  Claudia,  “ Come,  madam,”  said  he,  “ let  us  first  be  assured  of  your  enemy’s  death, 
and  then  consider  what  is  to  be  done  for  you.” 

“ Hold ! ” cried  Don  Quixote,  who  had  hearkened  with  great  attention  to  all  this  discourse  ; 

“none  of  you  need  trouble  yourselves  with  this  affair;  the  defence  of  the  lady  is  my  province. 

Give  me  my  horse  and  arms,  and  stay  for  me  ; I will  go  and  find  out  this  knight,  and,  dead 

or  alive,  force  him  to  perform  his  obligations  to  so  great  a beauty.” 

Roque  was  so  much  taken  up  with  the  thoughts  of  Claudia’s  adventure,  that,  ordering  his 
squires  to  restore  what  they  had  taken  from  Dapple  to  Sancho,  and  to  retire  to  the  place 
Avhere  they  had  quartered  the  night  before,  he  went  off  upon  the  spur  with  Claudia,  to  find 
the  expiring  Don  Vincente.  They  got  to  the  place  where  Claudia  met  him,  and  found  nothing 
but  the  marks  of  blood  newly  spilt ; but,  looking  round  about  them,  they  discovered  a company 
of  people  at  a distance  on  the  side  of  a hill,  and  presently  judged  them  to  be  Don  Vincente 
carried  by  his  servants  either  to  his  cure  or  burial.  They  hastened  to  overtake  them,  which 

they  soon  effected,  the  others  going  but  slowly ; and  they  found  the  young  gentleman  in  the 

arms  of  his  servants,  desiring  them,  with  a spent  and  fainting  voice,  to  let  him  die  in  that 
place,  his  wounds  paining  him  so  that  he  could  not  bear  going  any  farther.  Claudia  and  Roque 
dismounting,  hastily  came  up  to  him.  The  servants  were  startled  at  the  appearance  of  Roque, 
and  Claudia  was  troubled  at  the  sight  of  Don  Vincente;  and,  divided  between  anger  and 
compassion,  “ Had  you  given  me  this,  and  made  good  your  promise,”  said  she  to  him,  laying 
hold  of  his  hand,  “ you  had  never  brought  this  misfortune  upon  yourself.”  The  wounded 
gentleman,  lifting  up  his  languishing  eyes,  and  knowing  Claudia,  “ Now  do  I see,”  said  he, 

“ my  fair  deluded  mistress,  it  is  you  that  has  given  me  the  fatal  blow,  a punishment  never 

deserved  by  the  innocent,  unfortunate  Vincente,  whose  actions  and  desires  had  no  other  end  but 
that  of  serving  his  Claudia.” 

“ What ! sir,”  answered  she  presently,  “ can  you  deny  that  you  went  this  morning  to  marry 
Leonora,  the  daughter  of  wealthy  Belvastro  ? ” 

“It  is  all  a false  report,”  answered  he,  “ raised  by  my  evil  stars  to  spur  up  your  jealousy 
to  take  my  life,  which,  since  I leave  in  your  fair  hands,  I reckon  well  disposed  of ; and,  to 
confirm  this  truth,  give  me  your  hand,  and  receive  mine,  the  last  pledge  of  love  and  life,  and 
take  me  for  your  husband.  It  is  the  only  satisfaction  I have  to  give  for  the  imaginary  wrong 
you  suspect  I have  committed.”  Claudia  pressed  his  hand,  and  being  pierced  at  once  to  the 
very  heart,  dropped  on  his  bloody  breast  into  a swoon,  and  Don  Vincente  fainted  away  in  a 
deadly  trance. 

Roque’s  concern  struck  him  senseless,  and  the  servants  ran  for  water  to  throw  on  the 
faces  of  the  unhappy  couple  ; by  which  at  last  Claudia  came  to  herself  again,  but  Don  Vincente 
never  woke  from  his  trance,  but  breathed  out  the  last  remainder  of  his  life.  When  Claudia 
perceived  this,  and  could  no  longer  doubt  but  that  her  dear  husband  was  irrecoverably  dead, 
she  burst  the  air  with  her  sighs,  and  wounded  the  heavens  with  her  complaints.  She  tore 


“ Don  Quixote,  mounted  on  Rozinante,  declaiming  very  copiously  against  their  way  of  living.” — p.  768. 


y68 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA, 


lier  hair,  scattered  it  in  the  wind,  and  with  her  merciless  hands  disfigured  her  face,  showing 
all  the  lively  marks  of  grief  that  the  first  sallies  of  despair  can  discover. 

“ Oh,  cruel  and  inconsiderate  woman ! ” cried  she ; “ how  easily  wast  thou  set  on  this, 
barbarous  execution ! Oh,  maddening  sting  of  jealousy,  how  desperate  are  thy  motions,  and  how 
tragic  the  effects  ! Oh,  my  unfortunate  husband,  whose  sincere  love  and  fidelity  to  me  have 
thus  brought  him  to  the  cold  grave ! ” 

Thus  the  poor  lady  went  on  in  so  sad  and  moving  a strain,  that  even  Roque’s  rugged 

temper  now  melted  into  tears,  which  on  all  occasions  before  had  been  strangers  to  his  eyes. 

The  servants  wept  and  lamented  ; Claudia  relapsed  into  her  swooning  as  fast  as  they  found 
means  to  bring  her  to  life  again ; and  the  whole  appearance  was  a most  moving  scene  of 
sorrow.  At  last  Roque  Guinart  bid  Don  Vincente’s  servants  carry  his  body  to  his  father’s 
house,  which  was  not  far  distant,  in  order  to  have  it  buried.  Claudia  communicated  to  Roque 
her  resolution  of  retiring  into  a monastery,  where  an  aunt  of  hers  was  abbess,  there  to  spend 
the  rest  of  her  life,  wedded  to  a better  and  an  immortal  bridegroom.  He  commended  her 
pious  resolution,  offering  to  conduct  her  whither  she  pleased,  and  to  protect  her  father  and 
family  from  all  assaults  and  practices  of  the  most  dangerous  enemies.  Claudia  made  a modest 
excuse  for  declining  his  company,  and  took  leave  of  him  weeping.  Don  Vincente’s  servants 

carried  off  the  dead  body,  and  Roque  returned  to  his  men.  Thus  ended  Claudia  Jeronima’s 

amour,  brought  to  so  lamentable  a catastrophe  by  the  prevailing  force  of  a cruel  and  desperate 
jealousy. 

Roque  Guinart  found  his  crew  where  he  had  appointed,  and  Don  Quixote  in  the  middle 
of  them,  mounted  on  Rozinante,  and  declaiming  very  copiously  against  their  way  of  living, 
at  once  dangerous  to  their  bodies  and  destructive  to  their  souls ; but  his  auditory  being 
chiefly  composed  of  Gascoigners,  a wild,  unruly  kind  of  people,  all  his  morality  was  thrown 

away  upon  them.  Roque,  upon  his  arrival,  asked  Sancho  if  they  had  restored  him  all  his  things. 

“ Everything,  sir,  but  three  night-caps,  that  are  worth  a king’s  ransom.” 

“ What  says  the  fellow  ? ” cried  one  of  the  robbers ; “ here  they  be,  and  they  are  not 

worth  three  reals.”  * 

“ As  to  the  intrinsic  value,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ they  may  be  worth  no  more  ; but  it 
is  the  merit  of  the  person  that  gave  them  me  that  raises  their  value  to  that  price.” 

Roque  ordered  them  to  be  restored  immediately,  when  one  or  two  of  their  scouts  that 
were  posted  or  the  road  informed  their  captain  that  they  had  discovered  a great  company 
cf  travellers  on  the  way  to  Barcelona. 

“ Are  they  such  as  we  look  for  ? ” asked  Roque,  “ or  such  as  look  for  us  ? ” 

“ Such  as  we  look  for,  sir,”  answered  the  fellow. 

“Away  then,”  cried  Roque,  “all  of  you,  my  boys,  and  bring  them  me  hither  straight;  let 
none  escape.” 

Obeying  the  word  of  command,  the  squires  left  Don  Quixote,  Roque,  and  Sancho,  to  wait 


97 


‘ The  squires  left  Don  Quixote,  Roque,  and  Sancho  to  await  their  return.”—^.  768. 


77° 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


their  return,  and  in  the  meantime  Roque  entertained  the  knight  with  some  remarks  on  his 
way  of  living. 

When  Roque’s  party  had  brought  in  their  prize,  they  found  it  consisted  of  two  gentlemen 
on  horseback  and  two  pilgrims  on  foot,  and  a coach  full  of  women  attended  by  some  half-dozen 
servants  on  foot  and  on  horseback,  besides  two  muleteers  that  belonged  to  the  two  gentlemen. 
They  were  all  conducted  in  solemn  order,  surrounded  by  the  victors,  both  they  and  the 
vanquished  being  silent,  and  expecting  the  definitive  sentence  of  the  grand  Roque.  He  first 
asked  the  gentlemen  who  they  were,  whither  bound,  and  what  money  they  had  about  them. 
They  answered  that  they  were  both  captains  of  Spanish  foot,  and  their  companies  were  at 
Naples ; they  designed  to  embark  on  the  four  galleys  which  they  heard  were  bound  for 
Sicily  ; and  their  whole  stock  amounted  to  two  or  three  hundred  crowns,  which  they  thought  a 
pretty  sum  of  money  for  men  of  their  profession,  who  seldom  used  to  hoard  up  riches.  The 
pilgrims,  being  examined  in  like  manner,  said  they  intended  to  embark  for  Rome,  and  had 
about  threescore  reals  between  them  both.  Upon  examining  the  coach,  he  was  informed  by 
one  of  the  servants  that  my  Lady  Donna  Guiomar  de  Ouinonnes,  wife  to  a judge  of  Naples, 
with  her  little  daughter,  a chambermaid,  and  an  old  duenna,  together  with  six  other  servants, 
had  amon£  them  all  about  six  hundred  crowns. 

“ So  then,”  said  Roque,  “ we  have  got  here  in  all  nine  hundred  crowns  and  sixty  reals. 
I think  I have  got  about  threescore  soldiers  here  with  me.  Now,  among  so  many  men,  how 
much  will  fall  to  each  particular  share  ? Let  me  see,  for  I am  none  of  the  best  accountants. 
Cast  it  up,  gentlemen.” 

The  officers  looked  simply,  the  lady  was  sadly  dejected,  and  the  pilgrims  were  no  less 
cast  down,  thinking  this  a very  odd  confiscation  of  their  little  stock.  Roque  held  them  a while 
in  suspense,  to  observe  their  humours,  which  he  found  all  very  plainly  to  agree  in  that  point, 
of  being  melancholy  for  the  loss  of  their  money.  Then  turning  to  the  officers,  “ Do  me  the 
favour,  captains,”  said  he,  “ to  lend  me  threescore  crowns ; and  you,  madam,  if  your  ladyship 
pleases,  shall  oblige  me  with  fourscore,  to  gratify  these  honest  gentlemen  of  my  squadron.  It 
is  our  whole  estate  and  fortune ; and  you  know,  the  abbot  dines  on  what  he  sings  for.  There- 
fore I hope  you  will  excuse  our  demands,  which  will  free  you  from  any  more  disturbance  of 
this  nature,  being  secured  by  a pass,  which  I shall  give  you,  directed  to  the  rest  of  my 
squadrons  that  are  posted  in  these  parts,  and  who,  by  virtue  of  my  order,  will  let  you  go 
unmolested  ; for  I scorn  to  wrong  a soldier,  and  I must  not  fail  in  my  respects,  madam,  to  the 
fair  sex,  especially  to  ladies  of  your  quality.” 

The  captains,  with  all  the  grace  they  could,  thanked  him  for  his  great  civility  and  liberality 
for  so  they  esteemed  his  letting  them  keep  their  own  money.  The  lady  would  have  thrown 
herself  out  of  the  coach  at  his  feet,  but  Roque  would  not  suffer  it;  rather  excusing  the  pre- 
sumption of  his  demands,  which  he  was  forced  to,  in  pure  compliance  with  the  necessity  of  his 
fortune.  The  lady  then  ordered  her  servant  to  pay  the  fourscore  crowns ; the  officers  disbursed 


‘“Thus  it  is  I punsh  mutiny,’  said  he.” — p-lTi. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


772 

their  quota,  and  the  pilgrims  made  an  oblation  of  their  mite.  But  Roque  ordering  them  to 
wait  a little,  and  turning  to  his  men,  “ Gentlemen,”  said  he,  “ here  are  two  crowns  a-piece  for 
each  of  you,  and  twenty  over  and  above.  Now  let  us  bestow  ten  of  them  on  these  poor 

pilgrims,  and  the  other  ten  on  this  honest  squire,  that  he  may  give  us  a good  word  in  his 

travels.”  So,  calling  for  pen,  ink,  and  paper,  of  which  he  always  went  provided,  he  wrote  a 
passport  for  them,  directed  to  the  commanders  of  his  several  parties,  and  taking  his  leave, 
dismissed  them  ; all  wondering  at  his  greatness  of  soul,  that  spoke  rather  an  Alexander 
than  a professed  highwayman.  One  of  his  men  began  to  mutter  in  his  Catalan  language, 
“ This  captain  of  ours  is  plaguy  charitable ; he  would  make  a better  friar  than  a pad ; come, 
come,  if  he  has  a mind  to  be  so  liberal,  forsooth,  let  his  own  pocket,  not  ours,  pay  for  it.” 
The  wretch  spoke  not  so  low  but  he  was  overheard  by  Roque,  who,  whipping  out  his  sword, 
with  one  stroke  almost  cleft  his  skull  in  two.  “ Thus  it  is  I punish  mutiny,”  said  he.  All 
the  rest  stood  motionless,  and  durst  not  mutter  one  word,  so  great  was  the  awe  they  bore  him. 

Roque  then  withdrew  a little,  and  wrote  a letter  to  a friend  in  Barcelona,  to  let  him 
know  that  the  famous  knight-errant,  Don  Quixote,  of  whom  so  many  strange  things  were 
reported,  was  with  him  ; that  he  might  be  sure  to  find  him  on  Midsummer-day  on  the  great 
quay  of  that  city,  armed  at  all  points,  mounted  on  Rozinante,  and  his  squire  on  an  ass  ; that 
he  was  a most  pleasant,  ingenious  person,  and  would  give  great  satisfaction  to  him  and  his 
friends,  the  Niarros,  for  which  reason  he  gave  them  this  notice  of  the  Don’s  coming;  adding, 
that  he  should  by  no  means  let  the  Cadells,  his  enemies,  partake  of  this  pleasure,  as  being 
unworthy  of  it  : but  how  was  it  possible  to  conceal  from  them,  or  anybody  else,  the  folly 

and  discretion  of  Don  Quixote,  and  the  buffoonery  of  Sancho  Panza  ? He  delivered  the  letter 

to  one  of  his  men,  who,  changing  his  highway  clothes  to  a countryman’s  habit,  went  to 
Barcelona,  and  gave  it  as  directed. 


CHAPTER  LXI. 


DON  QUIXOTE’S  ENTRY  INTO  BARCELONA,  WITH  OTHER  ACCIDENTS  THAT  HAVE  LESS  INGENUITY  THAN 

TRUTH  IN  THEM. 


DON  QUIXOTE  stayed  three  days  and  three  nights  with  Roque,  and  had  he  tarried 
as  many  hundred  years  he  might  have  found  subject  enough  for  admiration  in  that 
kind  of  life.  They  slept  in  one  place,  and  ate  in  another,  sometimes  fearing  they  knew  not 
what,  then  lying  in  wait  for  they  knew  not  whom ; sometimes  forced  to  steal  a nap  standing, 
never  enjoying  a sound  sleep;  now  in  this  side  the  country,  then  presently  in  another  quarter; 
always  upon  the  watch,  spies  hearkening,  scouts  listening,  carbines  presenting  ; though  of  such 
heavy  guns  they  had  but  few,  being  armed  generally  with  pistols.  Roque  himself  slept  apart 
from  the  rest,  making  no  man  privy  to  his  lodgings ; for  so  many  were  the  proclamations 
against  him  from  the  Viceroy  of  Barcelona,  and  such  were  his  disquiets  and  fears  of  being 
betrayed  by  some  of  his  men  for  the  price  of  his  head,  that  he  durst  trust  nobody — a life 
most  miserable  and  uneasy. 

At  length,  by  cross-roads  and  bye-ways,  Roque,  Don  Quixote,  and  Sancho,  attended  by  six 
other  squires,  got  to  the  strand  of  Barcelona  on  Midsummer  Eve,  at  night;  where  Roque, 


774 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


having  embraced  Don  Quixote,  and  presented  Sancho  with  the  ten  crowns  he  had  promised 
him,  took  his  leave  of  them  both,  after  many  compliments  on  both  sides.  Roque  returned 
to  his  company,  and  Don  Quixote  stayed  there,  waiting  the  approach  of  day,  mounted  as 
Roque  left  him.  Not  long  after,  the  fair  Aurora  began  to  peep  through  the  balconies  of  the 
east,  cheering  the  flowery  fields,  while  at  the  same  time  a melodious  sound  of  hautboys  and 
kettledrums  cheered  the  ears,  and  presently  was  joined  with  jingling  of  morrice-bells  and  the 
trampling  and  cries  of  horsemen  coming  out  of  the  city.  Now  Aurora  ushered  up  the  jolly 
sun,  who  looked  big  on  the  verge  of  the  horizon,  with  his  broad  face  as  ample  as  a target. 
Don  Quixote  and  Sancho,  casting  their  looks  abroad,  discovered  the  sea,  which  they  had 
never  seen  before.  To  them  it  made  a noble  and  a spacious  appearance,  far  bigger  than  the 
lake  Ruydera,  which  they  saw  in  La  Mancha.  The  galleys  in  the  port,  taking  in  their  awnings, 
made  a pleasant  sight  with  their  flags  and  streamers  that  waved  in  the  air,  and  sometimes 
kissed  and  swept  the  water.  The  trumpets,  hautboys,  and  other  warlike  instruments  that 
resounded  from  on  board,  filled  the  air  all  round  with  reviving  and  martial  harmony.  A while 
after,  the  galleys  moving,  began  to  join  on  the  calm  sea  in  a counterfeit  engagement ; and  at 
the  same  time  a vast  number  of  gentlemen  marched  out  of  the  city,  nobly  equipped  with  rich 
liveries,  and  gallantly  mounted,  and  in  like  manner  did  their  part  on  the  land  to  complete  the 
warlike  entertainment.  The  marines  discharged  numerous  volleys  from  the  galleys,  which  were 
answered  by  the  great  guns  from  the  battlements  of  the  walls  and  forts  about  the  city,  and 
the  mighty  noise  echoed  from  the  galleys  again  by  a discharge  of  the  long  pieces  of  ordnance 
on  their  forecastles.  The  sea  smiled  and  danced,  the  land  was  gay,  and  the  sky  serene  in 
every  quarter  but  where  the  clouds  of  smoke  dimmed  it  a while  ; fresh  joy  sat  smiling  in  the 
looks  of  men,  and  gladness  and  pomp  were  displayed  in  their  glory.  Sancho  was  mightily 

puzzled  though  to  discover  how  these  huge  bulky  things  that  moved  on  the  sea  could  have 

so  many  feet 

By  this  time  the  gentlemen  that  maintained  the  sports  on  the  shore,  galloping  up  to 
Don  Ouixote  with  loud  acclamations,  the  knight  was  not  a little  astonished.  One  of  them 
amongst  the  rest,  who  was  the  person  to  whom  Roque  had  written,  cried  aloud,  “Welcome, 
the  mirror,  the  light,  the  north  star  of  knight-errantry  ! Welcome,  I say,  valorous  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha ; not  the  counterfeit  and  apocryphal  shown  us  lately  in  false  histories, 
but  the  true,  legitimate,  and  identic  he  described  by  Cid  Hamet,  the  flower  of  historiographers!” 

Don  Quixote  made  no  answer,  nor  did  the  gentleman  stay  for  any  ; but  wheeling  about  with 
the  rest  of  his  companions,  all  prancing  round  him  in  token  of  joy,  they  encompassed  the  knight 
and  squire.  Don  Quixote,  turning  about  to  Sancho,  “It  seems,”  said  he,  “these  gentlemen 

know  us  well.  I dare  engage  they  have  read  our  history,  and  that  which  the  Arragonian 

lately  published.” 

The  gentleman  that  spoke  to  the  knight,  returning,  “Noble  Don  Quixote,”  said  he,  “we 
entreat  you  to  come  along  with  the  comoany,  being  all  your  humble  servants,  and  friends  of 
Roque  Guinart.” 


Don  Quixote  stayed  there,  waiting  the  approach  of  day.”—/.  774, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


7 *7(S 

77° 

“ Sir,  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ your  courtesy  bears  such  a likeness  to  the  great  Roque’s 
generosity,  that,  could  civility  beget  civility,  I should  take  yours  for  the  daughter  or  near 
relation  of  his ; I shall  wait  on  you  where  you  please  to  command,  for  I am  wholly  at  your 
devotion.” 

The  gentleman  returned  his  compliment ; and  so  all  of  them  enclosing  him  in  the  middle 
of  their  brigade,  they  conducted  him  towards  the  city,  drums  beating,  and  hautboys  playing 
before  them  all  the  way.  But,  as  ill  luck  would  have  it,  two  young  fellows  made  a shift 
to  get  through  the  crowd  of  horsemen,  and  one  lifting  up  Rozinante’s  tail,  and  the  other 
that  of  Dapple,  they  thrust  a handful  of  briars  under  each  of  them.  The  poor  animals,  feeling- 
such  unusual  spurs  applied  to  them,  clapped  their  tails  close,  which  increased  their  pain,  and 
began  to  wince  and  flounce,  and  kick  so  furiously,  that  at  last  they  threw  their  riders,  and  laid 
both  master  and  man  sprawling  in  the  street.  Don  Quixote,  out  of  countenance,  and  nettled 
at  his  disgrace,  went  to  disengage  his  horse  from  his  new  plumage,  and  Sancho  did  as  much 
for  Dapple,  while  the  gentlemen  turned  to  chastise  the  boys  for  their  rudeness.  But  the 
young  rogues  were  safe  enough,  being  presently  lost  among  a huge  rabble  that  followed.  The 
knight  and  squire  then  mounted  again,  and  the  music  and  procession  went  on  till  they  arrived 
at  their  conductor’s  house,  which,  by  its  largeness  and  beauty,  bespoke  the  owner  master  of  a 
great  estate,  where  we  leave  him  for  the  present,  because  it  is  Cid  Hamet’s  will  and  pleasure 
it  should  be  so. 


V- 


83 


Enclosing  him  in  the  middle  of  their  brigade,  they  conducted  him  towards  the  city.1'—  p jjQ 


CHAPTER  LXII. 

THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  ENCHANTED  HEAD,  WITH  OTHER  IMPERTINENCES  NOT  TO  BE  OMITTED. 

THE  person  who  entertained  Don  Quixote  was  called  Don  Antonio  Moreno,  a gentleman 
of  good  parts  and  plentiful  fortune,  loving  all  those  diversions  that  may  innocently 
be  obtained  without  prejudice  to  his  neighbours,  and  not  of  the  humour  of  those  who  would 
rather  lose  their  friend  than  their  jest.  He  therefore  resolved  to  make  his  advantage  of  Don 
Quixote’s  follies  without  detriment  to  his  person. 

In  order  to  this,  he  persuaded  the  knight  to  take  off  his  armour,  and,  in  his  strait-laced 
chamois  clothes  (as  we  have  already  shown  him),  to  stand  in  a balcony  that  looked  into  one 
of  the  principal  streets  of  the  city,  where  he  stood  exposed  to  the  rabble  that  were  got 
together,  especially  the  boys,  who  gaped  and  stared  on  him  as  if  he  had  been  some  overgrown 
baboon.  The  several  brigades  and  cavaliers  in  their  liveries  be^an  afresh  to  fetch  their  careers 
about  him,  as  if  the  ceremony  were  rather  performed  in  honour  of  Don  Quixote  than  any 
solemnity  of  the  festival.  Sancho  was  highly  pleased,  fancying  he  had  chopped  upon  another 
Camacho’s  wedding,  or  another  house  like  that  of  Don  Diego  de  Miranda,  or  some  castle  like 
the  duke’s. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


779 


Several  of  Don  Antonio’s  friends  dined  with  him  that  day  ; and  all  of  them  honouring 
and  respecting  Don  Quixote  as  a knight-errant,  they  puffed  up  his  vanity  to  such  a degree, 
that  he  could  scarce  conceal  the  pleasure  he  took  in  their  adulation.  As  for  Sancho,  he  made 
such  sport  to  the  servants  of  the  house,  and  all  that  heard  him,  that  they  watched  every  word 
that  came  from  his  mouth.  Being  all  very  merry  at  table,  “ Honest  Sancho,”  said  Don 
Antonio,  “ I am  told  you  admire  capons  and  sausages  so  much  that  you  cannot  be  satisfied 
with  a bellyful,  and  when  you  can  eat  no  more,  you  cram  the  rest  into  your  breeches  against 
the  next  morning.” 

“No,  sir,  if  it  like  you,”  answered  Sancho,  “it  is  all  a story;  I am  more  cleanly  than 
greedy,  I would  have  you  to  know  ; here  is  my  master  can  tell  you  that  many  times  he  and 
I use  to  live  for  a week  together  upon  a handful  of  acorns  and  walnuts.  The  truth  is,  I am 
not  over  nice  ; in  such  a place  as  this  I eat  what  is  given  me  ; for  ‘ a gift-horse  should  not 
be  looked  in  the  mouth.’  But  whosoever  told  you  I was  a greedy-gut  and  a sloven,  has  told 
you  a fib ; and,  were  it  not  for  respect  to  the  company,  I would  tell  him  more  of  my  mind, 
so  I would.” 

“Verily,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “the  manner  of  Sancho’s  feeding  ought  to  be  delivered  to 
succeeding  ages  on  brazen  monuments,  as  a future  memorial  of  his  abstinence,  and  cleanliness, 
and  an  example  to  posterity.  It  is  true,  when  he  satisfies  the  call  of  hunger,  he  seems  to  do 
it  somewhat  ravenously  ; indeed,  he  swallows  apace,  uses  his  grinders  very  notably,  and  chews 
with  both  jaws  at  once.  But,  in  spite  of  the  charge  of  slovenliness  now  laid  upon  him,  I must 

declare  he  is  so  nice  an  observer  of  neatness,  that  he  ever  makes  a clear  conveyance  of  his 

food.  When  he  was  governor,  his  nicety  in  eating  was  remarkable,  for  he  would  eat  grapes, 
and  even  pomegranate-seeds,  with  the  point  of  his  fork.” 

“How!”  cried  Antonio,  “has  Sancho  been  a governor?” 

“Ay,  marry  has  he,”  answered  Sancho,  “governor  of  the  island  of  Barataria  ! Ten  days 

I governed,  and  who  but  I ? But  I was  so  broken  of  my  rest  all  the  time,  that  all  I got  by 

it  was  to  learn  to  hate  the  trade  of  governing  from  the  bottom  of  my  soul  ; so  that  I made 
such  haste  to  leave  it,  I fell  into  a deep  hole,  where  I was  buried  alive,  and  should  have 
lain  till  now,  had  not  Providence  pulled  me  out  of  it.” 

Don  Quixote  then  related  the  circumstances  of  Sancho’s  government ; and,  the  cloth  being 
taken  away,  Don  Antonio  took  the  knight  by  the  hand,  and  carried  him  into  a private  chamber, 
wherein  there  was  no  kind  of  furniture,  but  a table  that  seemed  to  be  of  jasper,  supported  by 
feet  of  the  same,  with  a brazen  head  set  upon  it,  from  the  breast  upwards,  like  the  effigies  of 
one  of  the  Roman  emperors.  Don  Antonio  having  walked  with  Don  Quixote  several  turns 
about  the  room,  “Signor  Don  Quixote,”  said  he,  “being  assured  that  we  are  very  private,  the 
door  fast,  and  nobody  listening,  I shall  communicate  to  you  one  of  the  most  strange  and 
wonderful  adventures  that  ever  was  known,  provided  you  treasure  it  up  as  a secret  in  the 
closest  apartment  of  your  breast.” 


;So 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ I shall  be  as  secret  as  the  grave,”  answered  the  knight,  “ and  will  clap  a tombstone  over 
your  secret  for  further  security  ; besides,  assure  yourself,  Don  Antonio,”  continued  he,  for  by 
this  time  he  had  learned  the  gentleman’s  name,  “ you  converse  with  a person  whose  ears  are 
open  to  receive  what  his  tongue  never  betrays  ; so  that  whatever  you  commit  to  my  trust 
shall  be  buried  in  the  depths  of  bottomless  silence,  and  lie  as  secure  as  in  your  own  breast.” 

“ In  confidence  of  your  honour,”  said  Don  Antonio,  “ I doubt  not  to  raise  your  astonishment, 
and  disburden  my  own  breast  of  a secret  which  has  long  lain  upon  my  thoughts,  having  never 
found  hitherto  any  person  worthy  to  be  made  a confidant  in  matters  to  be  concealed.” 

This  cautious  proceeding  raised  Don  Quixote’s  curiosity  strangely ; after  which  Don  Antonio 
led  him  to  the  table,  and  made  him  feel  and  examine  all  over  the  brazen  head,  the  table,  and 
jasper  supporters.  “ Now,  sir,”  said  he,  “ know  that  this  head  was  made  by  one  of  the  greatest 
enchanters  or  necromancers  in  the  world.  If  I am  not  mistaken,  he  was  a Polander  by  birth, 
and  the  disciple  of  the  celebrated  Escotillo,  of  whom  so  many  prodigies  are  related.  This 
wonderful  person  was  here  in  my  house,  and,  by  the  intercession  of  a thousand  crowns,  was 
wrought  upon  to  frame  me  this  head,  which  has  the  wonderful  property  of  answering  in  your 
ear  to  all  questions.  After  long  study,  erecting  of  schemes,  casting  of  figures,  consultations 
with  the  stars,  and  other  mathematical  operations,  this  head  was  brought  to  the  aforesaid 
perfection;  and  to-morrow  (for  on  Fridays  it  never  speaks)  it  shall  give  you  proof  of  its 
knowledge ; till  when  you  may  consider  of  your  most  puzzling  and  important  doubts,  which 
will  have  a full  and  satisfactory  solution.” 

Don  Quixote  was  amazed  at  this  strange  virtue  of  the  head,  and  could  hardly  credit 
Don  Antonio’s  account  ; but,  considering  the  shortness  of  the  time  that  deferred  his  full 
satisfaction  in  the  point,  he  was  content  to  suspend  his  opinion  till  next  day,  and  only  thanked 
the  gentleman  for  making  him  so  great  a discovery.  So  out  of  the  chamber  they  went  ; and, 
Don  Antonio  having  locked  the  door  very  carefully,  they  returned  into  the  room,  where  ' the 
rest  of  the  company  were  diverted  by  Sancho’s  relating  to  them  some  of  his  master’s  adventures. 

That  afternoon  they  carried  Don  Quixote  abroad  without  his  armour,  mounted,  not  on 
Rozinante,  but  on  a large  easy  mule,  with  genteel  furniture,  and  himself  dressed  after  the  city 
fashion,  with  a long  coat  of  tawny-coloured  cloth,  which,  with  the  present  heat  of  the  season, 
was  enough  to  put  frost  itself  into  a sweat.  They  gave  private  orders  that  Sancho  should  be 
entertained  within  doors  all  that  day,  lest  he  should  spoil  their  sport  by  going  out.  The  knight 
being  mounted,  they  pinned  to  his  back,  without  his  knowledge,  a piece  of  parchment,  with 

these  words  written  in  large  letters,  “ This  is  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha.”  As  soon  as  they 

began  their  walk,  the  sight  of  the  parchment  drew  the  eyes  of  everybody  to  read  the  inscription, 
so  that  the  knight,  hearing  so  many  people  repeat  the  words,  “ This  is  Don  Quixote  de  la 

Mancha,”  wondered  to  hear  himself  named  and  known  by  every  one  that  saw  him.  There- 

upon, turning  to  Don  Antonio,  who  rode  by  his  side,  “ How  great,”  said  he,  “ is  this  single 
prerogative  of  knight-errantry,  by  which  its  professors  are  known  and  distinguished  through  all 


“ Don  Antonio’s  wife  had  invited  several  of  her  friends  to  a ball,  to  honour  her  guest.” — p.  782. 


732 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


the  confines  of  the  universe ! Do  not  you  hear,  sir,”  continued  he,  “ how  the  very  boys  in 
the  street,  who  have  never  seen  me  before,  know  me  ? ” 

“It  is  very  true,  sir,”  answered  Don  Antonio;  “like  fire,  that  always  discovers  itself  by  its 
own  light,  so  virtue  has  that  lustre  that  never  fails  to  display  itself,  especially  that  renown 
which  is  acquired  by  the  profession  of  arms.” 

So  the  cavalcade  continued ; but  presently  the  rabble  pressed  so  very  thick  to  read  the 
inscription,  that  Don  Antonio  was  forced  to  pull  it  off,  under  pretence  of  doing  something  else. 

Upon  the  approach  of  night,  they  returned  home,  where  Don  Antonio’s  wife,  a lady  of 
quality,  and  every  way  accomplished,  had  invited  several  of  her  friends  to  a ball,  to  honour 
her  guest,  and  share  in  the  diversion  his  extravagances  afforded.  After  a noble  supper,  the 
dancing  began  about  ten  o’clock  at  night.  Among  others  were  two  ladies  of  an  airy, 

waggish  disposition,  who  made  their  court  chiefly  to  Don  Quixote,  and  plied  him  so  with 

dancing,  one  after  another,  that  they  tired  not  only  his  body,  but  his  very  soul.  But  the  best 

was  to  see  what  an  unaccountable  figure  the  grave  Don  made  as  he  hopped  and  stalked  about, 
a long,  sway-backed,  starved-looked,  thin-flanked,  two-legged  thing,  wainscot-complexioned,  stuck 
up  in  his  close  doublet.  At  last,  being  almost  teased  to  death,  “ Fugite,  partes  adverse ,”  cried 
he  aloud,  “ and  avaunt,  temptation  ! Pray,  ladies,  play  your  pranks  with  somebody  else  ; leave 
me  to  the  enjoyment  of  my  own  thoughts,  which  are  employed  and  taken  up  with  the  peerless 
Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  the  sole  queen  of  my  affections ; ” and,  so  saying,  he  sat  himself  down  on 
the  ground,  in  the  midst  of  the  hall,  to  rest  his  wearied  bones. 

Don  Antonio  gave  order  that  he  should  be  taken  up  and  carried  to  bed ; and  the  first  who 
was  ready  to  lend  a helping  hand  was  Sancho,  saying,  while  lifting  him  up,  “ By  our  lady,  sir 
master  of  mine,  you  have  shook  your  heels  most  facetiously  ! Do  you  think  we,  who  are  stout 
and  valiant,  must  be  caperers,  and  that  every  knight-errant  must  be  a snapper  of  castenets  ? 
If  you  do,  you  are  woundily  deceived,  let  me  tell  you.  I know  those  who  would  sooner  cut 
a giant’s  wind-pipe  than  a caper.  Had  you  been  for  the  shoe-jig,  I had  been  your  man,  for 
I slap  it  away  like  any  jer-falcon  ; but,  as  for  regular  dancing,  I cannot  work  a stitch  at  it.” 
This  made  diversion  for  the  company,  till  Sancho  led  out  his  master  in  order  to  put  him  to 
bed,  where  he  left  him  covered  over  head  and  ears,  that  he  might  sweat  out  the  cold  he  had 
caught  by  dancing. 

The  next  day,  Don  Antonio,  resolving  to  make  his  intended  experiment  on  the  enchanted 
head,  conducted  Don  Quixote  into  the  room  where  it  stood,  together  with  Sancho,  a couple 
of  his  friends,  and  the  two  ladies  that  had  so  teased  the  knight  at  the  ball  ; and  having 
carefully  locked  the  door,  and  enjoined  them  secrecy,  he  told  them  the  virtue  of  the  head,  and 
that  this  was  the  first  time  he  ever  made  proof  of  it ; and,  except  his  two  friends,  nobody 
knew  the  trick  of  the  enchantment,  and,  had  not  they  been  told  of  it  before,  they  had  been 
drawn  into  the  same  error  with  the  rest ; for  the  contrivance  of  the  machine  was  so  artful, 
and  so  cunningly  managed,  that  it  was  impossible  to  discover  the  cheat.  Don  Antonio  himself 


mm 


iMil  I 


Bsuife 


illllKiiMlIllil' 


IMIS 

■tig 

■ 

■1 

ii|i 

liffl 

“Two  ladies  made  their  court  chiefly  to  Don  Quixote.” — p.  782. 


?S4 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


was  the  first  that  made  his  application  to  the  ear  of  the  head,  close  to  which,  speaking  in  a 
voice  just  loud  enough  to  be  heard  by  the  company,  “Tell  me,  oh  head,”  said  he,  “by  that 
mysterious  virtue  wherewith  thou  art  endued,  what  are  my  thoughts  at  present  ? ” 

The  head,  in  a distinct  and  intelligible  voice,  though  without  moving  the  lips,  answered, 
“ I am  no  judge  of  thoughts.” 

They  were  all  astonished  at  the  voice,  being  sensible  nobody  was  in  the  room  to  answer. 
“ How  many  of  us  are  there  in  the  room  ?”  said  Don  Antonio  again. 

The  voice  answered,  in  the  same  key,  “ Thou,  and  thy  wife,  two  of  thy  friends,  and  two  of 
hers,  a famous  knight,  called  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  and  his  squire,  Sancho  Panza  by  name.” 

Now  their  astonishment  was  greater  than  before  ; now  they  wondered,  indeed,  and  the  hair 
of  some  of  them  stood  on  end  with  amazement.  “It  is  enough,”  said  Don  Antonio,  stepping 
aside  from  the  head  ; “ I am  convinced  it  was  no  impostor  sold  thee  to  me,  sage  head,  discoursing 
head,  oraculous,  miraculous  head!  Now,  let  somebody  else  try  their  fortune.” 

As  women  are  generally  most  curious  and  inquisitive,  one  of  the  dancing  ladies,  venturing 
up  to  it,  “Tell  me,  head,”  said  she,  “what  shall  I do  to  be  truly  beautiful?” 

“ Be  honest,”  answered  the  head. 

“ I have  done,”  replied  the  lady. 

Her  companion  then  came  on,  and,  with  the  same  curiosity,  “ I would  know,”  said  she, 
<l  whether  my  husband  loves  me  or  no.” 

The  head  answered,  “ Observe  his  usage,  and  that  will  tell  thee.” 

“Truly,”  said  the  married  lady  to  herself  as  she  withdrew,  “that  question  was  needless; 
for,  indeed,  a man’s  actions  are  the  surest  tokens  of  the  dispositions  of  his  mind.” 

Next  came  up  one  of  Don  Antonio’s  friends,  and  asked,  “Who  am  I?” 

The  answer  was,  “ Thou  knowest.” 

“ That  is  from  the  question,”  replied  the  gentleman  ; “ I would  have  thee  tell  me  whether 
thou  knowest  me.” 

“I  do,”  answered  the  head;  “thou  art  Don  Pedro  Norris.” 

“ It  is  enough,  oh  head;”  said  the  gentleman,  “thou  hast  convinced  me  that  thou  knowest 
all  things.”  So,  making  room  for  somebody  else,  his  friend  advanced,  and  asked  the  head  what 
his  eldest  son  and  heir  desired. 

“ I have  already  told  thee,”  said  the  head,  “ that  I was  no  judge  of  thoughts  ; however, 
I will  tell  thee  that  what  thy  heir  desires  is  to  bury  thee.” 

“It  is  so,”  replied  the  gentleman  ; “ what  I see  with  my  eye  I mark  with  my  finger  : I 
know  enough.” 

Don  Antonio’s  lady  asked  the  next  question.  " I do  not  well  know  what  to  ask  thee,” 
said  she  to  the  head  ; “ only  tell  me  whether  I shall  long  enjoy  my  dear  husband.” 

“ Thou  shalt,”  answered  the  head  ; “ for  his  healthy  constitution  and  temperance  promise 
length  of  days,  while  those  who-  live  too  fast  are  aot  like  to  live  long.” 


'-p.  786. 


786 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Next  came  Don  Quixote.  “Tell  me,  thou  oracle,”  said  he,  “was  what  I reported  of  my 
adventures  in  the  cave  of  Montesinos  a dream  or  reality  ? will  Sancho,  my  squire,  fulfil  his 
promise,  and  scourge  himself  effectually  ? and  shall  Dulcinea  be  disenchanted  ? ” 

“ As  for  the  adventures  in  the  cave,”  answered  the  head,  “ there  is  much  to  be  said — they 
have  something  of  both;  Sancho’s  whipping  shall  go  on  but  leisurely;  however,  Dulcinea  shall 
at  last  be  really  freed  from  enchantment.” 

“ That  is  all  I desire  to  know,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ for  the  whole  stress  of  my  good 
fortune  depends  on  Dulcinea’s  disenchantment.” 

Then  Sancho  made  the  last  application.  “If  it  please  you,  Mr.  Head,”  quoth  he,  “shall 
I chance  to  have  another  government  ? shall  I ever  get  clear  of  this  starving  squire-erranting  ? 
and  shall  I ever  see  my  own  fireside  again  ? ” 

The  head  answered,  “ Thou  shalt  be  a governor  in  thine  own  house  ; if  thou  goest  home, 
thou  mayest  see  thy  own  fireside  again ; and  if  thou  leavest  off  thy  service,  thou  shalt  get 
clear  of  thy  squireship.” 

“ Bless  me ! ” cried  Sancho,  “ that  is  a very  good  one,  I vow  ! A horse-head  might  have 
told  all  this  ; I could  have  prophesied  thus  much  myself.” 

“How  now,  brute!”  said  Don  Quixote;  “what  answers  wouldst  thou  have  but  what  are 
pertinent  to  thy  questions  ? ” 

“Nay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “since  you  will  have  it  so,  it  shall  be  so  ; I only  wish  Mr.  Head 
would  have  told  me  a little  more  concerning  the  matter.” 

Thus  the  questions  proposed  and  the  answers  returned  were  brought  to  a period ; but 
the  amazement  continued  among  all  the  company,  except  Don  Antonio’s  two  friends,  who 
understood  the  mystery,  which  Benengeli  is  resolved  now  to  discover,  that  the  world  should 
be  no  longer  amazed  with  an  erroneous  opinion  of  any  magic  or  witchcraft  operating  in  the 

head.  He  therefore  tells  you  that  Don  Antonio  Moreno,  to  divert  himself  and  surprise  the 

ignorant,  had  this  made,  in  imitation  of  such  another  device  which  he  had  seen  contrived  by 
a statuary  at  Madrid. 

The  manner  of  it  was  thus  : the  table,  and  the  frame  on  which  it  stood,  the  feet  of  which 
resembled  four  eagles’  claws,  were  of  wood,  painted  and  varnished  like  jasper.  The  head, 
which  looked  like  the  bust  of  a Roman  emperor,  and  of  a brass  colour,  was  all  hollow,  and 
so  were  the  feet  of  the  table,  which  answered  exactly  to  the  neck  and  breast  of  the  head,  the 

whole  so  artificially  fixed  that  it  seemed  to  be  all  of  a piece ; through  this  cavity  ran  a tin. 

pipe,  conveyed  into  it  by  a passage  through  the  ceiling  of  the  room  under  the  table.  He  that 
was  to  answer  set  his  mouth  to  the  end  of  the  pipe  in  the  chamber  underneath,  and,  by  the 
hollowness  of  the  trunk,  received  their  questions  and  delivered  his  answers  in  clear  and 
articulate  words,  so  that  the  imposture  could  scarcely  be  discovered.  The  oracle  was  managed 
by  a young,  ingenious  gentleman,  Don  Antonio’ s nephew,  who,  having  his  instructions  before' 
hand  from  his  uncle,  was  able  to  answer  readily  and  directly  to  the  first  questions,  and,  by 


DON  QUIXOTE  LA  MANCHA.  78  J 

conjectures  or  evasions,  make  a return  handsomely  to  the  rest,  with  the  help  of  his 
ingenuity. 

Cid  Hamet  informs  us  further,  that,  during  ten  or  twelve  days  after  this,  the  wonderful 
machine  continued  in  mighty  repute  ; but,  at  last,  the  noise  of  Don  Antonio’s  having  an 
enchanted  head  in  his  house,  that  gave  answers  to  all  questions,  began  to  fly  about  the  city  ; 
and,  as  he  feared  this  would  reach  the  ears  of  the  watchful  sentinels  of  our  faith,  he  thought 
fit  to  give  an  account  of  the  whole  matter  to  the  reverend  inquisitors,  who  ordered  him  to 
break  it  to  pieces,  lest  it  should  give  occasion  of  scandal  among  the  ignorant  vulgar.  But 
still  the  head  passed  for  an  oracle  and  a piece  of  enchantment  with  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  ; 
though,  the  truth  is,  the  knight  was  much  better  satisfied  in  the  matter  than  the  squire. 

The  gentry  of  the  city,  in  complaisance  to  Don  Antonio,  and  for  Don  Quixote’s  more 
splendid  entertainment,  or  rather,  to  make  his  madness  a more  public  diversion,  appointed  a 
running  at  the  ring  about  six  days  after ; but  this  was  broken  off  upon  an  occasion  that  afterwards 
happened. 

Don  Quixote  had  a mind  to  take  a turn  in  the  city  on  foot,  that  he  might  avoid  the  crowd 
of  boys  that  followed  him  when  he  rode.  He  went  out  with  Sancho,  and  two  of  Don  Antonio’s 
servants,  who  attended  him  by  their  master’s  order ; and,  passing  through  a certain  street,  Don 
Quixote  looked  up,  and  spied,  written  over  a door,  in  great  letters,  these  words,  “ Here  is  a 
printing-house.”  This  discovery  pleased  the  knight  extremely,  having  now  an  opportunity  of 
seeing  a printing-press— a thing  he  had  never  seen  before — and  therefore,  to  satisfy  his  curiosity, 
in  he  went,  with  all  his  train.  There  he  saw  some  working  off  the  sheets ; others  correcting  the 
formes ; some  in  one  place,  picking  of  letters  out  of  the  cases ; in  another,  some  looking  over  a 
proof, — in  short,  all  the  variety  that  is  to  be  seen  in  great  printing-houses.  He  went  from  one 
workman  to  another,  and  was  very  inquisitive  to  know  what  everybody  had  in  hand,  and  they 
were  not  backward  to  satisfy  his  curiosity.  At  length,  coming  to  one  of  the  compositors,  and 
asking  him  what  he  was  about,  “ Sir,”  said  the  printer,  “ this  gentleman  here” — showing  a likely 
sort  of  a man,  something  grave,  and  not  young — “ has  translated  a book  out  of  Italian  into 
Spanish,  and  I am  setting  some  of  it  here  for  the  press.” 

“ What  is  the  name  of  it,  pray  ?”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“Sir,”  answered  the  author,  “the  title  of  it  in  Italian  is  “ Le  Bagatele.’ ’ 

“ And  pray,  sir,”  asked  Don  Quixote,  “ what  is  the  meaning  of  that  word  in  Spanish  ?” 

“Sir,”  answered  the  gentleman,  Le  Bagatele’  is  as  much  as  to  say  ‘Trifles;’  but  though 
the  title  promises  so  little,  yet  the  contents  are  matters  of  importance.” 

“ I am  a little  conversant  in  the  Italian,”  said  the  knight,  “ and  value  myself  upon  singing 
some  stanzas  of  Ariosto ; therefore,  sir,  without  any  offence,  and  not  doubting  of  your  skill,  but 
merely  to  satisfy  my  curiosity,  pray,  tell  me,  have  you  ever  met  with  such  a word  as  pig'.iaia. 
in  Italian?” 

“ Yes,  very  often,  sir,”  answered  the  author. 


;88 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“And  how  do  you  render  it,  pray,  sir?”  said  Don  Quixote. 

“How  should  I render  it,  sir,”  replied  the  translator,  “but  by  the  word  ‘porridge-pot?’” 

“Bless  me!'  cried  Don  Quixote,  “you  are  master  of  the  Italian  idiom.  I dare  hold  a 
good  wager  that  where  the  Italian  says  piace  you  translate  it  ‘please;’  where  it  says  put  you 
render  it  ‘ more  ; ’ su,  ‘ above  ; ’ and  gin,  ‘ beneath.’  ” 

“ Most  certainly,  sir,”  answered  the  other,  “ for  such  are  their  proper  significations.” 

“ What  rare  parts,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ are  lost  to  mankind,  for  want  of  their  being 
exerted  and  known ! I dare  swear,  sir,  that  the  world  is  backward  in  encouraging  your  merit. 
But  it  is  the  fate  of  all  ingenious  men.  How  many  of  them  are  cramped  up  and  discountenanced 
by  a narrow  fortune!  and  how  many,  in  spite  of  the  most  laborious  industry,  discouraged! 
Though,  by  the  way,  sir,  I think  this  kind  of  version  from  one  language  to  another,  except  it 
be  from  the  noblest  of  tongues,  the  Greek  and  Latin,  is  like  viewing  a piece  of  Flemish  tapestry 
on  the  wrong  side,  where,  though  the  figures  are  distinguishable,  yet  there  are  so  many  ends 
and  threads,  that  the  beauty  and  exactness  of  the  work  is  obscured,  and  not  so  advantageously 
discerned  as  on  the  right  side  of  the  hangings.  Neither  can  this  barren  employment  of  translating 
out  of  easy  languages  show  either  wit  or  mastery  of  style,  no  more  than  copying  a piece  of  writing 
by  a precedent ; though,  still,  the  business  of  translating  wants  not  its  commendations,  since  men 
very  often  may  be  worse  employed.  As  a further  proof  of  its  merits,  we  have  Doctor  Christoval 
de  Figuero’s  translation  of  Pastor  Fido,  and  Don  Juan  de  Xaurigui’s  Aminta— - pieces  so  excel- 
lently well  done,  that  they  have  made  them  purely  their  own,  and  left  the  reader  in  doubt  which 
was  the  translation  and  which  the  original.  But  tell  me,  pray,  sir,  do  you  print  your  book  at 
your  own  charge,  or  have  you  sold  the  copy,  to  a bookseller?” 

“ Why,  truly,  sir,”  answered  the  translator,  “ I publish  it  upon  my  own  account,  and  I hope 
to  clear  at  least  a thousand  crowns  by  this  first  edition  : for  I design  to  print  off  two  thousand 
books,  and  they  will  go  off  at  six  reals  a-piece  in  a trice.” 

“ I am  afraid  you  will  come  short  of  your  reckoning,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ it  is  a sign 
you  are  still  a stranger  to  the  tricks  of  these  booksellers  and  printers,  and  the  juggling  that 
is  among  them.  I dare  engage  you  will  find  two  thousand  books  lie  heavy  upon  your  hands, 
especially  if  the  piece  be  somewhat  tedious,  and  wants  spirit.” 

“ What ! sir,”  replied  the  author,  “ would  you  have  me  sell  the  profit  of  my  labour  to  a 
bookseller  for  three  maravedis  a sheet  ? for  that  is  the  most  they  will  bid,  nay,  and  expect,  too, 

I should  thank  them  for  the  offer.  No,  no.  sir;  I print  not  my  works  to  get  fame  in  the 
world;  my  name  is  up  already  : profit,  sir,  is  my  end,  and  without  it  what  signifies  reputation?” 

“ Well,  sir,  go  on  and  prosper,”  said  Don  Quixote ; and  with  that,  moving  to  another 
part  of  the  room,  he  saw  a man  correcting  a sheet  of  a book  called  “ The  Light  of  the 
Soul.”  “ Ay,  now  this  is  something,”  cried  the  knight ; “ these  are  the  books  that  ought  to 
be  printed,  though  there  are  a great  many  of  that  kind  ; for  the  number  of  sinners  is  prodigious 
in  this  age,  and  there  is  need  of  an  infinite  quantity  of  lights  for  so  many  dark  souls  as  we 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


789 


have  among  us.”  Then  passing  on,  and  inquiring  the  title  of  a book  of  which  another  man 
was  correcting  a sheet,  they  told  him  it  was  the  second  part  of  that  ingenious  gentleman,  “ Don  • 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,”  written  by  a certain  person,  a native  of  Tordesillas.  “ I have  heard 
of  that  book  before,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  really  thought  it  had  been  burnt,  and  reduced 
tc  ashes,  for  a foolish,  impertinent  libel  ; but  all  in  good  time.  ‘ Execution-day  will  come  at 
last.’  For  made  stories  are  only  so  far  good  and  agreeable  as  they  are  profitable  and  bear 
the  resemblance  of  truth,  and  true  history  the  more  valuable  the  farther  it  keeps  from  the 

fabulous.”  And,  so  saying,  he  flung  out  of  the  printing-house  in  a huff. 

That  very  day  Don  Antonio  would  needs  show  Don  Quixote  the  galleys  in  the  road, 
much  to  Sancho’s  satisfaction,  because  he  had  never  seen  any  in  his  life.  Don  Antonio, 
therefore,  cave  notice  to  the  commander  of  the  galleys  that  in  the  afternoon  he  would  bring 
his  guest,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  to  see  them ; the  commander  and  all  the  people  of 

the  town  being  by  this  time  no  stranger  to  the  knight’s  character.  But  what  happened  in  the 

galleys  must  be  the  subject  of  the  next  chapter. 


CHAPTER  LXIII. 

OF  SANCHO’S  MISFORTUNES  ON  BOARD  THE  GALLEYS,  WITH  THE  STRANGE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE 

BEAUTIFUL  MORISCA  (MOORISH)  LADY. 

MANY  and  serious  were  Don  Quixote’s  reflections  on  the  answer  of  the  enchanted 
head,  though  none  hit  on  the  deceit,  but  centred  all  in  the  promise  of  Dulcinea’s 
disenchantment ; and,  expecting  it  would  speedily  be  effected,  he  rested  joyfully  satisfied.  As 
for  Sancho,  though  he  hated  the  trouble  of  being  a governor,  yet  still  he  had  an  itching  ambition 
to  rule,  to  be  obeyed,  and  appear  great ; for  even  fools  love  authority. 

In  short,  that  afternoon  Don  Antonio,  his  two  friends,  Don  Quixote,  and  Sancho  set  out 
for  the  galleys.  The  commander,  being  advertised  of  their  coming,  upon  their  appearance  on 
the  quay,  ordered  all  the  galleys  to  strike  sail  ; the  music  played,  and  a pinnace,  spread  with 
rich  carpets  and  crimson  velvet  cushions,  was  presently  hoisted  out,  and  sent  to  fetch  them 
on  board.  As  soon  as  Don  Quixote  set  his  foot  into  it,  the  admiral’s  galley  discharged  her 
forecastle  piece,  and  the  rest  of  the  galleys  did  the  like.  When  Don  Quixote  got  over  the 
gunnel  of  the  galley,  on  the  starboard  side,  the  whole  crew  of  slaves,  according  to  their  custom 
of  saluting  persons  of  quality,  welcomed  him  with  three  hu,  hu,  huz,  or  huzzas.  The  general 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


79 1 


(for  so  we  must  call  him),  by  birth  a Valencian,  and  a man  of  quality,  gave  him  his  hand,  and 
embraced  him.  “ This  day,”  said  he,  “ will  I mark  as  one  of  the  happiest  I can  expect  to  see 

in  all  my  life,  since  I have  the  honour  now  to  behold  Signor  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha ; this 

day,  I say,  that  sets  before  my  eyes  the  summary  of  wandering  chivalry  collected  in  one  person.” 
Don  Quixote  returned  his  compliment  with  no  less  civility,  and  appeared  overjoyed  to  see 
himself  so  treated  like  a grandee.  Presently  they  all  went  into  the  state-room,  which  was 
handsomely  adorned,  and  there  they  took  their  places.  The  boatswain  went  to  the  forecastle, 
and  with  his  whistle  or  call  gave  the  sign  to  the  slaves  to  strip,  which  was  obeyed  in  a moment. 
Sancho  was  scared  to  see  so  many  fellows  in  their  naked  skins,  but  most  of  all  when  he  saw- 
them  hoist  up  the  sails  so  incredibly  fast,  as  he  thought  could  never  have  been  done  but  by  so 
many  conjurers.  He  had  placed  himself  a-midship,  next  the  aftmost  rower  on  the  starboard  side, 
who,  being  instructed  what  to  do,  caught  hold  of  him,  and,  giving  him  a hoist,  handed  him  to 
the  next  man,  who  tossed  him  to  a third ; and  so  the  whole  crew  of  slaves,  beginning  on  the 

starboard  side,  made  him  fly  so  fast  from  bench  to  bench,  that  poor  Sancho  lost  the  very 

sight  of  his  eyes.  Nor  did  the  slaves  give  over  bandying  him  about  till  they  had  handed  him 
in  the  same  manner  over  all  the  larboard  side ; and  then  they  set  him  down  where  they  had 
taken  him  up,  but  strangely  disordered,  out  of  breath,  in  a cold  sweat,  and  not  truly  sensible 
what  it  was  that  had  happened  to  him. 

Don  Quixote,  seeing  his  squire  fly  at  this  rate  without  wings,  asked  the  general  if  that 

were  a ceremony  used  to  all  strangers  aboard  the  galleys ; for,  if  it  were,  he  must  let  him 

know  that,  as  he  did  not  design  to  take  up  his  residence  there,  he  did  not  like  such  entertainment, 
and  vowed  that,  if  any  of  them  came  to  lay  hold  on  him  to  toss  him  at  that  rate,  he  would 
spurn  their  souls  out  of  their  bodies  ; and  with  this,  starting  up,  he  lays  his  hand  on  his  sword. 

At  the  same  time  they  lowered  their  sails,  and,  with  a dreadful  noise,  let  down  the  main- 
yard,  which  so  frightened  Sancho,  who  thought  the  sky  was  coming  off  its  hinges,  and  falling 
upon  him,  that  he  ducked,  and  thrust  his  head  between  his  legs  for  fear.  Don  Ouixote  was 
a little  out  of  sorts,  too  ; he  began  to  shiver,  and  shrug  up  his  shoulders,  and  changed  colour. 
The  slaves  hoisted  the  mainyard  again  with  the  same  force  and  noise  that  they  had  lowered  it 
withal  ; but  all  this  with  such  silence  on  their  parts,  as  if  they  had  neither  voice  nor  breath. 
The  boatswain  then  gave  the  word  to  weigh  anchor,  and,  leaping  a-top  of  the  forecastle  among 
the  crew,  with  his  whip,  he  began  to  dust  and  fly-flap  their  shoulders,  and,  by  little  and  little, 
to  put  off  to  sea. 

When  Sancho  saw  so  many  coloured  feet  moving  at  once  (for  he  took  the  oars  to  be  such) 
Bless  my  heart ! ” quoth  he,  “ here  is  enchantment  in  good  earnest  ; all  our  adventures  and 

witchcrafts  have  been  nothing  to  this.  What  have  these  poor  wretches  done  that  their  hides 

must  be  curned  at  this  rate  ? And  how  dares  this  plaguy  fellow  go  whistling  about  here  by 
himself,  and  maul  thus  so  many  people  ? ” 

Don  Quixote,  observing  how  earnestly  Sancho  looked  on  these  passages,  “ Ah ! dear 


792 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Sancho,”  said  he,  “ what  an  easy  matter  now  were  it  for  you  to  strip  to  the  waist,  and  clap 
yourself  among-  these  gentlemen,  and  so  complete  Dulcinea’s  disenchantment  ; among  so  many 
companions  in  affliction,  you  would  not  be  so  sensible  of  the  smart ; and,  besides,  the  sage 
Merlin,  perhaps,  might  take  every  one  of  these  lashes,  being  so  well  laid  on,  for  ten  of  those 
which  you  must  certainly  one  day  inflict  on  yourself.” 

The  general  of  the  galleys  was  going  to  ask  what  he  meant  by  these  lashes  and  Dulcinea’s 
disenchantment,  when  a mariner  cried  out,  “ They  make  signs  to  us  from  Monjoui  that  there  is 
a vessel  standing  under  the  shore  to  the  westward.” 

With  that  the  general,  leaping  upon  the  coursey,  cried,  “ Pull  away,  my  hearts  ! let  her  not 
escape  us  ; this  brigantine  is  an  Algerine,  I warrant  her.”  Presently  the  three  other  galleys 
came  up  with  the  admiral  to  receive  orders,  and  he  commanded  two  of  them  to  stand  out 
to  sea,  while  he,  with  the  other,  would  keep  along  the  shore,  that  so  they  might  be  sure  of 
their  prize. 

The  rowers  tugged  so  hard  that  the  galleys  scudded  away  like  lightning,  and  those  that 
stood  to  sea  discovered,  about  two  miles  off,  a vessel  with  fourteen  or  fifteen  oars,  which,  upon 
sight  of  the  galleys,  made  the  best  of  her  way  off,  hoping  by  her  lightness  to  make  her  escape ; 
but  all  in  vain,  for  the  admiral’s  galley,  being  one  of  the  swiftest  vessels  in  those  seas,  gained 
so  much  way  upon  her  that  the  master  of  the  brigantine,  seeing  his  danger,  was  willing  the 
crew  should  quit  their  oars,  and  yield,  for  fear  of  exasperating  their  general.  But  fate  ordered 
it  otherwise  ; for,  upon  the  admiral’s  coming  up  with  the  brigantine  so  near  as  to  hail  her  and 
bid  them  strike,  two  Toraquis,  that  is,  two  drunken  Turks,  among  twelve  others  that  were  on 
board  the  vessel,  discharged  a couple  of  muskets,  and  killed  two  soldiers  that  were  upon  the 
prow  of  the  galley.  The  general,  seeing  this,  vowed  he  would  not  leave  a man  of  them  alive  ; 
and  coming  up  with  great  fury  to  grapple  with  her,  she  slipped  away  under  the  oars  of  the 

galley.  The  galley  ran  ahead  a good  way,  and  the  little  vessel,  finding  herself  clear  for  the 

present,  though  without  hopes  to  get  off,  crowded  all  the  sail  she  could,  and,  with  oars  and 
sails,  began  to  make  the  best  of  its  way,  while  the  galley  tacked  about.  But  all  their 
diligence  did  not  do  them  so  much  good  as  their  presumption  did  them  harm  ; for  the  admiral 

coming  up  with  her,  after  a short  chase,  clapped  his  oars  in  the  vessel,  and  so  took  her,  and 

every  man  in  her  alive. 

By  this  time  the  other  galleys  were  come  up,  and  all  four  returned  with  their  prize  into  the 
harbour,  where  great  numbers  of  people  stood  waiting,  to  know  what  prize  they  had  taken. 
The  general  came  to  an  anchor  near  the  land ; and,  perceiving  the  viceroy  was  on  shore,  he 
manned  his  pinnace  to  fetch  him  on  board,  and  gave  orders  to  lower  the  main-yard,  to  hang 
up  the  master  of  the  brigantine,  with  the  rest  of  the  crew,  which  consisted  of  about  six-and- 
thirty  persons,  all  proper  lusty  fellows,  and  most  of  them  Turkish  musketeers.  The  general 
asked  who  commanded  the  vessel ; whereupon  one  of  the  prisoners,  who  was  afterwards  known 
to  be  a Spaniard,  and  a renegado,  answered  him  in  Spanish.  “ This  was  our  master,  my  lord,’ 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


793 


said  he,  showing  him  a young  man,  not  twenty  years  of  age,  and  one  of  the  handsomest  persons 
jthat  could  be  imagined. 

“You  inconsiderate  dog!”  said  the  general,  “what  made  you  kill  my  men,  when  you  saw 
it  was  not  possible  for  you  to  escape  ? Is  this  the  respect  due  to  an  admiral  ? Do  not  you 
know  that  rashness  is  no  courage  ? While  there  is  any  hope,  we  are  allowed  to  be  bold,  but 
not  to  be  desperate.” 

The  master  was  offering  to  reply,  but  the  general  could  not  stay  to  hear  his  answer,  being 
obliged  to  go  and  entertain  the  viceroy,  who  was  just  come  on  board  with  his  retinue,  and 
others  of  the  town. 

“ You  have  had  a lucky  chase,  my  lord,”  said  the  viceroy  ; “ what  have  you  got  r” 

“ Your  excellency  shall  see  presently,”  answered  the  general ; “ I will  show  them  you  imme- 
diately hanging  at  the  main-yard  arm.” 

“ How  so  ?”  replied  the  viceroy. 

“ Because,”  said  he,  “ they  have  killed,  contrary  to  all  law  of  arms,  reason,  and  custom  cf 
the  sea,  two  of  the  best  soldiers  I had  on  board ; for  which  I am  sworn  to  hang  them  every 
mother’s  son,  especially  this  young  rogue,  the  master.”  Saying  this,  he  showed  him  a person 
with  his  hands  already  bound,  and  the  halter  about  his  neck,  expecting  nothing  but  death. 

His  youth,  beauty,  and  resignation  began  to  plead  much  in  his  behalf  with  the  viceroy,  and 
made  him  inclinable  to  save  him.  “Tell  me,  captain,”  said  he,  “art  thou  born  a Turk  or  a 
Moor,  or  art  thou  a renegado?” 

“ None  of  all  these,”  answered  the  youth,  in  good  Spanish. 

“ What  then  ?”  said  the  viceroy. 

“ A Christian  woman,”  replied  the  youth ; “ a woman,  and  a Christian,  though  in  these 
clothes,  and  in  such  a post ; but  it  is  a thing  rather  to  be  wondered  at  than  believed.  I humbly 
beseech  you,  my  lords,”  continued  the  youth,  “ to  defer  my  execution  till  I give  you  the  history, 
of  my  life ; and  I can  assure  you,  the  delay  of  your  revenge  will  be  but  short.” 

This  request  was  urged  so  piteously,  that  nobody  could  deny  it ; whereupon  the  general 
bade  him  proceed,  assuring  him,  nevertheless,  that  there  were  no  hopes  of  pardon  for  an  offence 
so  great  as  that  of  which  he  was  guilty.  Then  the  youth  began  : — 

“ I am  one  of  that  unhappy  and  imprudent  nation  whose  miseries  are  fresh  in  your 
memories.  My  parents  being  of  the  Morisco  race,  the  current  of  their  misfortunes,  with  the 
obstinacy  of  two  uncles,  hurried  me  out  of  Spain  into  Barbary.  In  vain  I professed  myself  a 
Christian,  being  really  one,  and  not  such  a secret  Mahometan  as  too  many  of  us  were  : this 
could  neither  prevail  with  my  uncles  to  leave  me  in  my  native  country,  nor  with  the  severity 
of  those  officers  that  had  orders  to  make  us  evacuate  Spain,  to  believe  that  it  was  not  a pretence. 
My  mother  was  a Christian ; my  father,  a man  of  discretion,  professed  the  same  belief ; and 
I sucked  the  Catholic  faith  with  my  milk.  I was  handsomely  educated,  and  never  betrayed 

the  least  mark  of  the  Morisco  breed,  either  in  language  or  behaviour.  With  these  endowments, 

100 


794 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


as  I grew  up,  that  little  beauty  I had,  if  ever  I had  any,  began  to  increase;  and  for  all  my 
retired  life,  and  the  restraint  upon  my  appearing  abroad,  a young  gentleman,  called  Don  Gasper 
Gregorio,  got  a sight  of  me:  he  was  son  and  heir  to  a knight  that  lived  in  the  next  town.  It 
were  tedious  to  relate  how  he  got  an  opportunity  to  converse  with  me,  fell  desperately  in  love, 
and  affected  me  with  a sense  of  his  passion.  I must  be  short,  lest  this  halter  cut  me  off  in 
the  middle  of  my  story.  I shall  only  tell  you  that  he  would  needs  bear  me  company  in  my 
banishment ; and  accordingly,  by  the  help  of  the  Morisco  language,  of  which  he  was  a perfect 
master,  he  mingled  with  the  exiles,  and  getting  acquainted  with  my  two  uncles  that  conducted 
me,  we  all  went  together  to  Barbary,  and  took  up  our  residence  at  Algiers. 

“ My  father,  in  the  meantime,  had  very  prudently,  upon  the  first  news  of  the  proclamation 
to  banish  us,  withdrawn  to  seek  a place  of  refuge  for  us  in  some  foreign  country,  leaving  a 
considerable  stock  of  money  and  jewels  hidden  in  a private  place,  which  he  discovered  to  nobody 
but  me,  with  orders  not  to  move  it  till  his  return. 

“ The  King  of  Algiers,  understanding  I had  some  beauty,  and  also  that  I was  rich,  which 
afterwards  turned  to  my  advantage,  sent  for  me,  and  was  very  inquisitive  about  my  country, 
and  what  jewels  and  gold  I had  got.  I satisfied  him  as  to  the  place  of  my  nativity,  and  gave 
him  to  understand  that  my  riches  were  buried  in  a certain  place,  where  I might  easily  recover 
them,  were  I permitted  to  return  to  where  they  lay. 

“ This  I told  him,  that  in  hopes  of  sharing  in  my  fortune,  his  covetousness  should  divert 

him  from  injuring  my  person.  In  the  midst  of  these  questions,  the  king  was  informed  that  a 
certain  youth,  the  handsomest  and  loveliest  in  the  world,  had  come  over  in  company  with  us. 

I was  presently  conscious  that  Don  Gregorio  was  the  person,  his  beauty  answering  so  exactly 
their  description.  The  sense  of  the  young  gentleman’s  danger  was  now  more  grievous  to  me 
than  my  own  misfortunes,  having  been  told  that  those  barbarous  Turks  are  much  fonder  of  a 
handsome  youth  than  the  most  beautiful  woman.  The  king  gave  immediate  orders  he  should 
be  brought  into  his  presence,  asking  me  whether  the  youth  deserved  the  commendations  they 
gave  him.  1 told  him,  inspired  by  some  good  angel,  that  the  person  they  so  much  commended 
was  no  man,  but  of  my  own  sex  and  withal  begged  his  permission  to  have  her  dressed  in  a 
female  habit,  that  her  beauty  might  shine  in  its  natural  lustre,  and  so  prevent  her  blushes,  if 
she  should  appear  before  his  majesty  in  that  unbecoming  habit.  He  consented,  promising  withal 
to  give  orders  next  morning  for  my  return  to  Spain,  to  recover  my  treasure.  I spoke  with  Don 
Gasper,  represented  to  him  the  danger  of  appearing  a man,  and  prevailed  with  him  to  wrnit  on 
the  king  that  evening  in  the  habit  of  a Moorish  woman.  The  king  was  so  much  pleased  with 
his  beauty,  that  he  resolved  to  reserve  him  as  a present  for  the  Grand  Seigneur ; and,  fearing 

the  malice  of  his  wives  in  the  seraglio,  he  gave  her  in  charge  to  some  of  the  principal  ladies 

of  the  city,  to  whose  house  she  was  immediately  conducted. 

“ This  separation  was  grievous  to  us  both,  for  I cannot  deny  that  I love  him.  Those  who 
have  ever  felt  the  pangs  of  a parting  love  can  best  imagine  the  affliction  of  our  souls.  Next- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


795 


morning-,  by  the  king’s  order,  I embarked  for  Spain  in  this  vessel,  accompanied  by  these  two 
Turks  that  killed  your  men,  and  this  Spanish  renegado  that  first  spoke  to  you,  who  is  a Christian 
in  his  heart,  and  came  along  with  me  with  a greater  desire  to  return  to  Spain  than  go  back 
to  Barbary.  The  rest  are  all  Moors  and  Turks,  who  serve  for  rowers.  Their  orders  were 
to  set  me  on  shore,  with  this  renegado,  in  the  habits  of  Christians,  on  the  first  Spanish  ground 
we  should  discover;  but  these  two  covetous  and  insolent  Turks  would  needs,  contrary  to  their 
order,  first  cruise  upon  the  coast,  in  hopes  of  taking  some  prize,  being  afraid  that,  if  they  should 
first  set  us  ashore,  some  accident  might  happen  to  us,  and  make  us  discover  that  the  brigantine 

was  not  far  off  at  sea,  and  so  expose  them  to  the  danger  of  being  taken,  if  there  were  galleys 

upon  the  coast.  In  the  night  we  made  this  land,  not  mistrusting  any  galleys  lying  so  near,  and. 
so  we  fell  into  your  hands. 

“To  conclude,  Don  Gregorio  remains  in  woman’s  habit  among  the  Moors,  nor  can  the 
deceit  long  protect  him  from  destruction  ; and  here  I stand,  expecting,  or  rather  fearing,  my  fate, 
which  yet  cannot  prove  unwelcome,  1 being  now  weary  of  living.  Thus,  gentlemen,  you  have 
heard  the  unhappy  passages  of  my  life ; I have  told  you  nothing  but  what  is  true ; and  all  I 
have  to  beg  is,  that  I may  die  as  a Christian,  since  I am  innocent  of  the  crimes  of  which  my 
unhappy  nation  is  accused.”  Here  she  stopped,  and,  with  her  story  and  her  tears,  melted  the 
hearts  of  many  of  the  company. 

The  viceroy,  being  moved  with  a tender  compassion,  was  the  first  to  unbind  the  cords 
that  manacled  her  fair  hands  ; when  an  ancient  pilgrim,  who  came  on  board  with  the  viceroy’s 

attendants,  having,  with  a fixed  attention,  minded  the  damsel  during  her  relation,  came  suddenly, 

and,  throwing  himself  at  her  feet, — - 

“Oh!  Anna  Felix,”  cried  he,  “ my  dear  unfortunate  daughter!  Behold  thy  father  Ricote, 
that  returned  to  seek  thee,  being  unable  to  live  without  thee,  who  art  the  joy  and  support  of 
my  age.” 

Upon  this,  Sancho,  who  had  all  this  while  been  sullenly  musing,  vexed  with  the  usage  he 

had  met  with  so  lately,  lifting  up  his  head,  and  staring  the  pilgrim  in  the  face,  knew  him  to  be 

the  same  Ricote  he  had  met  on  the  road  the  day  he  left  his  government,  and  was  likewise 
fully  persuaded  that  this  was  his  daughter,  who,  being  now  unbound,  embraced  her  father,  and 
joined  with  him  in  his  joy  and  grief.  “ My  lords,”  said  the  old  pilgrim,  “ this  is  my  daughter, 
Anna  Felix,  more  unhappy  in  fortune  than  in  name,  and  famed  as  much  for  her  beauty  as  for 
her  father’s  riches.  I left  my  country  to  seek  a sanctuary  for  my  age,  and,  having  fixed  upon 
a residence  in  Germany,  returned  in  this  habit,  with  other  pilgrims,  to  dig  up  and  regain  my 
wealth,  which  I have  effectually  done  ; but  I little  thought  thus  unexpectedly  to  have  found  my 
greatest  treasure,  my  dearest  daughter.  My  lords,  if  it  can  consist  with  the  integrity  of  your 
justice  to  pardon  our  small  offence,  I join  my  prayers  and  tears  with  hers  to  implore  your 
mercy  on  our  behalf,  since  we  never  designed  you  any  injury,  and  are  innocent  of  those  crimes 

for  which  our  nation  has  justly  been  banished." 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


796 

“ Ay,  ay,”  cried  Sancho,  putting  in,  “ I knew  Ricote  as  well  as  the  beggar  knows  his  dish  ; 
and  so  far  as  concerns  Anna  Felix  being  his  daughter,  I know  that  is  true,  too  ; but  for  all 
the  story  of  his  goings  out  and  comings  in,  and  his  intentions,  whether  they  were  good  or 
whether  they  were  bad,  I will  neither  meddle  nor  make,  not  I.” 

So  uncommon  an  accident  filled  all  the  company  with  admiration ; so  that  the  general, 
turning  to  the  fair  captive,  “ Your  tears,”  said  he,  “ are  so  prevailing,  madam,  that  they  compel 
me  now  to  be  foresworn.  Live,  lovely  Anna  Felix;  live  as  many  years  as  Heaven  has  decreed 
you  ; and  let  those  rash  and  insolent  slaves,  who  alone  committed  the  crimes,  bear  the  punishment 
of  it.”  With  that  he  gave  orders  to  have  the  two  delinquent  Turks  hanged  up  at  the  yard- 
arm ; but  at  the  intercession  of  the  viceroy,  their  fault  showing  rather  madness  than  design, 
the  fatal  sentence  was  revoked  ; the  general  considering,  at  the  same  time,  that  their  punishment 
in  cold  blood  would  look  more  like  cruelty  than  justice. 

Then  they  began  to  consider  how  they  might  retrieve  Don  Gasper  Gregorio  from  the 
danger  he  was  in  ; to  which  purpose  Ricote  offered  to  the  value  of  above  a thousand  ducats,  which 
he  had  about  him  in  jewels,  to  purchase  his  ransom.  But  the  readiest  expedient  was  thought 
to  be  the  proposal  of  the  Spanish  renegado,  who  offered,  with  a small  barque  and  half  a dozen 
oars,  manned  by  Christians,  to  return  to  Algiers  and  set  him  at  liberty,  as  best  knowing  when 
and  where  to  land,  and  being  acquainted  with  the  place  of  his  confinement.  The  general  and 
the  viceroy  demurred  to  this  motion,  through  a distrust  of  the  renegado’s  fidelity,  since  he  might 
perhaps  betray  the  Christians  that  were  to  go  along  with  him.  But  Anna  Felix  engaging  for 
his  truth,  and  Ricote  obliging  himself  to  ransom  the  Christians,  if  they  were  taken,  the  design 
was  resolved  upon. 

The  viceroy  went  ashore,  committing  the  Morisca  and  her  father  to  Don  Antonio  Moreno’s 
care,  desiring  him  at  the  same  time  to  command  his  house  for  anything  that  might  conduce 
to  their  entertainment ; such  sentiments  of  kindness  and  good  nature  had  the  beauty  of  Anna 
Felix  infused  into  his  breast. 


CHAPTER  LX IV. 


OF  AN  UNLUCKY  ADVENTURE,  WHICH  DON  QUIXOTE  LAID  MOST  TO  HEART  OF  ANY  THAT  HAD  YET 

BEFALLEN  HIM. 

DON  ANTONIO’S  lady  was  extremely  pleased  with  the  company  of  the  fair  Morisca, 
whose  sense  being  as  exquisite  as  her  beauty,  drew  all  the  most  considerable  persons 
in  the  city  to  visit  her.  Don  Quixote  told  Don  Antonio  that  he  could  by  no  means  approve 
the  method  they  had  taken  to  release  Don  Gregorio,  it  being  full  of  danger,  with  little  or  no 
probability  of  success  ; but  that  their  surest  way  would  have  been  to  set  him  ashore  in  Barbary, 
with  his  horse  and  arms,  and  leave  it  to  him  to  deliver  the  gentleman,  in  spite  of  all  the  Moorish 
powrer,  as  Don  Gayferos  had  formerly  rescued  his  wife  Melisandra. 

“ Good,  your  worship,”  quoth  Sancho,  hearing  this  ; “ look  before  you  leap.  Don  Gayferos 
had  nothing  but  a fair  face  for  it  on  dry  land,  when  he  carried  her  to  France.  But  here,  if 
it  please  you,  though  we  should  deliver  Don  Gregorio,  how  shall  we  bring  him  over  to  Spain 
across  the  broad  sea?” 

“‘There  is  a remedy  for  all  things  but  death,’”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “it  is  but  having 
a barque  ready  by  the  sea-side,  and  then  let  me  see  what  can  hinder  our  getting  into  it.” 

“ Ah ! master,  master,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ there  is  more  to  be  done  than  a dish  to  wash. 
Saying  is  one  thing,  and  doing  is  another ; and,  for  my  part,  I like  the  renegado  very  well ; 
he  seems  to  me  a good,  honest  fellow,  and  cut  out  for  the  business.” 

“ Well,”  said  Don  Antonio,  “ if  the  renegado  fails,  then  the  great  Don  Quixote  shall  embark 
for  Barbary.” 

In  two  days  the  renegado  was  dispatched  away  in  a fleet  cruiser  of  six  oars  on  each  side, 
manned  with  brisk,  lusty  fellows ; and  two  days  after  that  the  galleys,  with  the  general,  left 
the  port,  and  steered  their  course  eastward ; the  general  having  first  engaged  the  viceroy  to 
give  him  an  account  of  Don  Gregorio’s  and  Anna  Felix’s  fortune. 


79  s 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Now  it  happened  one  morning  that  Don  Quixote,  going  abroad  to  take  the  air  upon  the 
sea-shore,  armed  at  all  points,  according  to  his  custom — his  arms,  as  he  said,  being  his  best 
attire,  as  combat  was  his  refreshment — he  spied  a knight  riding  towards  him,  armed,  like  himself, 
from  head  to  foot,  with  a bright  moon  blazoned  on  his  shield,  who,  coming  within  hearing, 
called  out  to  him, — 

“ Illustrious  and  never-sufficiently  extolled  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  I am  the  Knight 
of  the  White  Moon,  whose  incredible  achievements,  perhaps,  have  reached  thy  ears.  Lo ! I 
am  come  to  enter  into  combat  with  thee,  and  to  compel  thee,  by  dint  of  sword,  to  own  and 
acknowledge  my  mistress,  by  whatever  name  and  dignity  she  be  distinguished,  to  be,  without 
any  degree  of  comparison,  more  beautiful  than  thy  Dulcinea  del  Toboso.  Now,  if  thou  wilt 
fairly  confess  this  truth,  thou  freest  thyself  from  certain  death,  and  me  from  the  trouble  of  taking 
or  giving  thee  thy  life.  If  not,  the  conditions  of  our  combat  are  these  : If  victory  be  on  my 
side,  thou  shalt  be  obliged  immediately  to  forsake  thy  arms  and  the  quest  of  adventures,  and 
to  return  to  thy  own  house,  where  thou  shalt  engage  to  live,  quietly  and  peaceably,  for  the  space 
of  one  whole  year,  without  laying  hand  on  thy  sword,  to  the  improvement  of  thy  estate  and 
the  salvation  of  thy  soul.  But  if  thou  comest  off  conqueror,  my  life  is  at  thy  mercy,  my  horse 
and  arms  shall  be  thy  trophy,  and  the  fame  of  all  my  former  exploits,  by  the  lineal  descent  of 
conquest,  be  vested  in  thee  as  victor.  Consider  what  thou  hast  to  do,  and  let  thy  answer  be 
quick,  for  my  despatch  is  limited  to  this  very  day.” 

Don  Quixote  was  amazed  and  surprised,  as  much  at  the  arrogance  of  the  Knight  of  the 
White  Moon’s  challenge,  as  at  the  subject  of  it;  so,  with  a solemn  and  austere  address, — 
“ Knight  of  the  White  Moon,”  said  he,  “ whose  achievements  have  as  yet  been  kept  from  my 
knowledge,  it  is  more  than  probable  that  you  have  never  seen  the  illustrious  Dulcinea  ; for,  had 
you  ever  viewed  her  perfections,  you  had  there  found  arguments  enough  to  convince  you  that 
no  beauty,  past,  present,  or  to  come,  can  parallel  hers  ; and  therefore,  without  giving  you  directly 
the  lie,  I only  tell  thee,  knight,  thou  art  mistaken  ; and  this  position  I will  maintain,  by  accepting 
your  challenge  on  your  conditions,  except  that  article  of  your  exploits  descending  to  me ; for, 
not  knowing  what  character  your  actions  bear,  I shall  rest  satisfied  with  the  fame  of  my  own,  by 
which,  such  as  they  are,  I am  willing  to  abide.  And,  since  your  time  is  so  limited,  choose  your 
ground,  and  begin  your  career  as  soon  as  you  will,  and  expect  to  be  met  with.  ‘ A fair  field,  and 
no  favour  to  whom  God  shall  give  her,  St.  Peter  give  his  blessing.” 

While  these  two  knights  were  thus  adjusting  the  preliminaries  of  combat,  the  viceroy,  who 
had  been  informed  of  the  Knight  of  the  White  Moon’s  appearance  near  the  city  walls,  and  his 
parleying  with  Don  Quixote,  hastened  to  the  scene  of  battle,  not  suspecting  it  to  be  anything 
but  some  new  device  of  Don  Antonio  Moreno,  or  somebody  else.  Several  gentlemen,  and  Don 
Antonio  among  the  rest,  accompanied  him  thither.  They  arrived  just  as  Don  Quixote  was 
wheeling  Rozinante  to  fetch  his  career ; and,  seeing  them  both  ready  for  the  onset,  he  interposed, 
desiring  to  know  the  cause  of  the  sudden  combat.  The  Knight  of  the  White  Moon  told  him 


They  found  him  pale,  and  in  a cold  sweat.” — p.  800. 


8od 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


there  was  a lady  in  the  case,  and  briefly  repeated  to  his  excellency  what  passed  between  him  and 
Don  Quixote.  The  viceroy  whispered  to  Don  Antonio,  and  asked  him  whether  he  knew  that 
Knight  of  the  White  Moon,  and  whether  their  combat  was  not  some  jocular  device  to  impose 
upon  Don  Quixote.  Don  Antonio  answered  positively  that  he  neither  knew  the  knight  nor 
whether  the  combat  were  in  jest  or  earnest.  This  put  the  viceroy  to  some  doubt  whether  he 
should  not  prevent  their  engagement ; but,  being  at  last  persuaded  that  it  must  be  a jest  at 
the  bottom,  he  withdrew. 

“ Valorous  knights,”  said  he,  “ if  there  be  no  medium  between  confession  and  death,  but 
Don  Quixote  be  still  resolved  to  deny,  and  you,  the  Knight  of  the  White  Moon,  as  obstinately 
to  urge,  I have  no  more  to  say;  the  field  is  free,  and  the  Lord  have  mercy  on  you!” 

The  knights  made  their  compliments  to  the  viceroy  for  his  gracious  consent ; and  Don 
Quixote,  making  some  short  ejaculations  to  Heaven  and  his  mistress,  as  he  always  used  upon 
these  occasions,  began  his  career,  without  either  sound  of  trumpet  or  any  other  signal.  His 
adversary  was  no  less  forward ; for,  setting  spurs  to  his  horse,  which  was  much  the  swifter,  he 
met  Don  Quixote,  before  he  had  run  half  his  career,  so  forcibly,  that,  without  making  use  of  his 
lance,  which  it  is  thought  he  lifted  up  on  purpose,  he  overthrew  the  Knight  of  La  Mancha  and 
Rozinante,  both  coming  to  the  ground  with  a terrible  fall. 

The  Knight  of  the  White  Moon  got  immediately  upon  him,  and,  clapping  the  point  of 
his  lance  to  his  face,  “ Knight,”  cried  he,  “ you  are  vanquished,  and  a dead  man,  unless  you 
immediately  fulfil  the  conditions  of  your  combat.” 

Don  Quixote,  bruised  and  stunned  with  his  fall,  without  lifting  up  his  beaver,  answered  in 
a faint  hollow  voice,  as  if  he  had  spoken  out  of  a tomb,  “ Dulcinea  del  Toboso  is  the  most 
beautiful  woman  in  the  world,  and  I the  most  unfortunate  knight  upon  the  earth.  It  were 
unjust  that  such  perfection  should  suffer  through  my  weakness.  No,  pierce  my  body  with  thy 
lance,  knight,  and  let  my  life  expire  with  my  honour.” 

“Not  so  rigorous  neither,”  replied  the  conqueror;  “let  the  fame  of  the  Lady  Dulcinea  del 
Toboso  remain  entire  and  unblemished;  provided  the  great  Don  Quixote  return  home  for  a 
year,  as  we  agreed  before  the  combat,  I am  satisfied.” 

The  viceroy  and  Don  Antonio,  with  many  other  gentlemen,  were  witnesses  to  all  these 
passages,  and  particularly  to  this  proposal ; to  which  Don  Quixote  answered,  that,  upon  condition 
he  should  be  enjoined  nothing  to  the  prejudice  of  Dulcinea,  he  would,  upon  the  faith  of  a true 
knight,  be  punctual  in  the  performance  of  everything  else.  This  acknowledgment  being  made, 
the  Knight  of  the  White  Moon  turned  about  his  horse,  and,  saluting  the  viceroy,  rode  at  a hand- 
gallop  into  the  city,  whither  Don  Antonio  followed  him,  at  the  viceroy’s  request,  to  find  who 
he  was,  if  possible. 

Don  Quixote  was  lifted  up,  and  upon  taking  off  his  helmet,  they  found  him  pale,  and  in 
a cold  sweat.  As  for  Rozinante,  he  was  in  so  sad  a plight,  that  he  could  not  stir  for  the  present. 
Then,  as  for  Sancho,  he  was  in  so  heavy  a taking,  that  he  knew  not  what  to  do  nor  what  to  say: 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


8oi 

he  was  sometimes  persuaded  he  was  in  a dream — sometimes  he  fancied  this  rueful  adventure 
was  all  witchcraft  and  enchantment.  In  short,  he  found  his  master  discomfited  in  the  face  of 
the  world,  and  bound  to  good  behaviour,  and  to  lay  aside  his  arms  for  a whole  year.  Now 
he  thought  his  glory  eclipsed ; his  hopes  of  greatness  vanished  into  smoke ; and  his  master’s 
promises,  like  his  bones,  put  out  of  joint  by  that  cursed  fall,  which  he  was  afraid  had  at  once 
crippled  Rozinante  and  his  master.  At  last  the  vanquished  knight  was  put  into  a chair,  which 
the  viceroy  had  sent  for  that  purpose,  and  they  carried  him  into  town,  accompanied  likewise 
by  the  viceroy,  who  had  a great  curiosity  to  know  who  this  Knight  of  the  White  Moon  was, 
that  had  left  Don  Quixote  in  so  sad  a condition. 


101 


CHAPTER  LXV. 


AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  KNIGHT  OF  THE  WHITE  MOON,  DON  GREGORIO’S  ENLARGEMENT,  AND  OTHER 

PASSAGES. 

DON  ANTONIO  MORENO  followed  the  Knight  of  the  White  Moon  to  his  inn, 
whither  he  was  attended  by  a troublesome  rabble  of  boys.  The  knight  being  got  to 
his  chamber,  where  his  squire  waited  to  take  off  his  armour,  Don  Antonio  came  in,  declaring 
lie  would  not  be  shook  off  till  he  had  discovered  who  he  was.  The  knight  finding  that  the 

gentleman  would  not  leave  him,  “ Sir,”  said  he,  “ since  I lie  under  no  obligation  of  concealing 

myself,  if  you  please,  while  my  man  disarms  me,  you  shall  hear  the  whole  truth  of  the  story. 

“You  must  know,  sir,  I am  called  the  bachelor  Carrasco.  I live  in  the  same  town  with 

this  Don  Quixote,  whose  unaccountable  frenzy  has  moved  all  his  neighbours,  and  me  among  the 
rest,  to  endeavour,  by  some  means,  to  cure  his  madness  ; in  order  to  which,  believing  that  rest 
and  ease  would  prove  the  surest  remedy,  I bethought  myself  of  this  present  stratagem,  and,, 
about  three  months  ago,  in  all  the  equipage  of  a knight-errant,  under  the  title  of  the  Knight  of 
the  Mirrors,  I met  him  on  the  road,  fixed  a quarrel  upon  him,  and  the  conditions  of  our  combat 
were  as  you  have  heard  already.  But  fortune  then  declared  for  him,  for  he  unhorsed  and 
vanquished  me,  and  so  I was  disappointed ; he  prosecuted  his  adventures,  and  I returned  home 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


shamefully,  very  much  hurt  with  my  fall.  But,  willing  to  retrieve  my  credit,  I made  this  second 
attempt,  and  now  have  succeeded  ; for  I know  him  to  be  so  nicely  punctual  in  whatever  his  word 
and  honour  is  engaged  for,  that  he  will  undoubtedly  perform  his  promise.  This,  sir,  is  the  sum 
of  the  whole  story ; and  I beg  the  favour  of  you  to  conceal  me  from  Don  Quixote,  that  my 
project  may  not  be  ruined  the  second  time,  and  that  the  honest  gentleman,  who  is  naturally  a 
man  of  good  parts,  may  recover  his  understanding.” 

“ Oh ! sir,”  replied  Don  Antonio,  “ what  have  you  to  answer  for,  in  robbing  the  world  of  the 
most  diverting  folly  that  ever  was  exposed  among  mankind  ? Consider,  sir,  that  his  cure  can 
never  benefit  the  public  half  so  much  as  his  distemper.  But  I am  apt  to  believe,  Sir  Bachelor, 
that  his  madness  is  too  firmly  fixed  for  your  art  to  remove;  and,  Heaven  forgive  me ! I cannot 
forbear  wishing  it  may  be  so,  for  by  Don  Quixote’s  cure  we  not  only  lose  his  good  company,  but 
the  drolleries  and  comical  humours  of  Sancho  Panza  too,  which  are  enough  to  cure  melancholy 
itself  of  the  spleen.  However,  I promise  to  say  nothing  of  the  matter,  though  I confidently 
believe,  sir,  your  pains  will  be  to  no  purpose.” 

Carrasco  told  him,  that  having  succeeded  so  far,  he  was  obliged  to  cherish  better  hopes  ; and, 
asking  Don  Antonio  if  he  had  any  further  service  to  command  him,  he  took  his  leave,  and, 
packing  up  his  armour  on  a carriage-mule,  presently  mounted  his  charging  horse,  and,  leaving 
the  city  that  very  day,  posted  homewards,  meeting  no  adventure  on  the  road  worthy  a place 
in  this  faithful  history. 

Six  days  did  Don  Quixote  keep  his  bed,  very  dejected,  sullen,  and  out  of  humour,  and  full 
of  severe  and  black  reflections  on  his  fatal  overthrow.  Sancho  was  his  comforter,  and,  among 
other  his  crumbs  of  comfort, — 

“My  dear  master,”  quoth  he,  “cheer  up;  come,  pluck  up  a good  heart,  and  be  thankful" 
for  coming  off  no  worse.  Why,  a man  has  broken  his  neck  with  a less  fall,  and  you  have  not 
so  much  as  a broken  rib.  Consider,  sir,  that  they  that  game  sometimes  must  lose  : we  must 
not  always  look  for  bacon  where  we  see  the  hooks.  Come,  sir,  cry  a fig  for  the  doctor,  since 
you  will  not  need  him  this  bout ; let  us  jog  home  fair  and  softly,  without  thinking  any  more  of 
sauntering  up  and  down,  nobody  knows  whither,  in  quest  of  adventures  and  broken  noses.  Why, 
sir,  I am  the  greatest  loser,  if  you  go  to  that,  though  it  is  you  that  are  in  the  worst  pickle. 
It  is  true  I was  weary  of  being  a governor,  and  gave  over  all  thoughts  that  way,  but  yet  I 
never  parted  with  my  inclination  of  being  an  earl ; and  now,  if  you  miss  being  a king,  by  casting 
off  your  knight-errantry,  poor  I may  go  whistle  for  my  earldom.” 

“No  more  of  that,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “I  shall  only  retire  for  a year,  and  then 
re-assume  my  honourable  profession,  which  will  undoubtedly  secure  me  a kingdom,  and  thee  an 
earldom.” 

“Heaven  grant  it  may!”  quoth  Sancho,  “and  no  mischief  betide  us:  ‘ Hope  well  and  have 
well,’  says  the  proverb.” 

Don  Antonio  coming  in,  broke  off  the  discourse,  and  with  great  signs  of  joy,  calling  to  Don 


804 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


Quixote,  Reward  me,  sir,”  cried  he,  “ for  my  good  news.  Don  Gregorio  and  the  renegado  are 
sale  arrived  : they  are  now  at  the  viceroy’s  palace,  and  will  be  here  this  moment.” 

The  knight  was  a little  revived  at  this  news.  “Truly,  sir,”  said  he  to  Don  Antonio, 
“ I could  almost  be  sorry  for  his  good  fortune,  since  he  has  forestalled  the  glory  I should  have 
acquired  in  releasing,  by  the  strength  of  my  arm,  not  only  him,  but  all  the  Christian  slaves  in 
Barbary.  But  whither  am  I transported,  wretch  that  I am ! Ami  not  miserably  conquered, 
shamefully  overthrown,  forbidden  the  paths  of  glory  for  a whole  long,  tedious  year  ? What 
should  I boast,  who  am  fitter  for  a distaff  than  a sword  ?” 

“ No  more  of  that,”  quoth  Sancho.  “ To-day  for  thee,  and  to-morrow  for  me.  Never  lay 
this  ill  fortune  to  heart ; ‘ he  that  is  down  to-day  may  be  up  to-morrow,’  unless  he  has  a mind 
to  lie  a-bed.  Hang  bruises;  so  rouse,  sir,  and  bid  Don  Gregorio  welcome  to  Spain,  for,  by  the 
hurry  in  the  house,  I believe  he  is  come.” 

And  so  it  happened;  for  Don  Gregorio,  having  paid  his  duty  to  the  viceroy,  and  given  him 
an  account  of  his  delivery,  was  just  arrived  at  Don  Antonio’s  with  the  renOgado,  very  impatient 
to  see  Anna  Felix;  He  had  changed  the  female  habit  he  wore  when  he  was  freed,  for  one 
suitable  to  his  sex,  which  he  had  from  a captive  who  came  along  with  him  in  the  vessel,  and 
appeared  a very  amiable  and  handsome  gentleman,  though  not  above  eighteen  years  of  age. 
Ricote  and  his  daughter  went  out  to  meet  him,  the  father  with  tears,  and  the  daughter  with 
a joyful  modesty.  Their  salutation  was  reserved,  without  an  embrace,  their  love  being  too 
refined  for  any  loose  behaviour  ; but  their  beauties  surprised  everybody.  : Silence  was  emphatical 
in  their  joys,  and  their  eyes  spoke  more  love  than  their  tongues  could  express.  ,The  renegado 
gave  a short  account  of  the  success  of  his  voyage,  and  Don  Gregorio  briefly  related  the  shifts 
he  was  put  to  in  his  confinement,  which  showed  his  wit  and  discretion  to  be  much  above  his 
years.  Ricote  gratified  the  ship’s  crew  very  nobly,  and  particularly  the  renegado,  who  was  once 
more  received  into  the  bosom  of  the  Church,  having,  with  due  penance  and  sincere  repentance, 
purified  himself  from  all  his  former  uncleanness. 

Some  few  days  after,  the  viceroy,  in  concert  with  Don  Antonio,  took  such  measures  as  were 
expedient  to  get  the  banishment  of  Ricote  and  his  daughter  repealed,  judging  it  no  inconvenience 
to  the  nation  that  so  just  and  orthodox  persons  should  remain  among  them.  Don  Antonio, 
being  obliged  to  go  to  court  about  some  other  matters,  offered  to  solicit  in  their  behalf,  hinting 
to  him  that,  through  the  intercession  of  friends,  and  more  powerful  bribes,  many  difficult  matters 
were  brought  about  there,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  parties. 

“There  is  no  relying  upon  favour  and  bribes  in  our  business,”  said  Ricote,  who  was  by; 
“ for  the  great  Don  Bernardo  de  Velasco,  Count  de  Salazar,  to  whom  the  king  gave  the  charge 
of  our  expulsion,  is  a person  of  too  strict  and  rigid  justice  to  be  moved  either  by  money,  favour, 
or  affection;  and  though  I cannot  deny  him  the  character  of  a merciful  judge  in  other  matters, 
yet  his  piercing  and  diligent  policy  finds  the  body  of  our  Moriscan  race  to  be  so  corrupted,  that 
amputation  is  the  only  cure.  He  is  an  Argus  in  his  ministry,  and  by  his  watchful  eyes  has 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


805 

discovered  die  most  secret  springs  of  their  machinations,  and  resolving  to  prevent  the  danger 
which  the  whole  kingdom  was  in  from  such  a powerful  multitude  of  inbred  foes,  he  took  the 
most  effectual  means ; for,  after  all,  lopping  off  the  branches  may  only  prune  the  tree,  and  make 
the  poisonous  fruit  spring  faster,  but  to  overthrow  it  from  the  root  proves  a sure  deliverance. 
Nor  can  the  great  Philip  the  Third  be  too  much  extolled ; first,  for  his  heroic  resolution  in  so 
nice  and  weighty  an  affair,  and  then  for  his  wisdom  in  entrusting  Don  Bernardo  de  Velasco  with 
the  execution  of  this  design.” 

Well,  when  I come  to  court,”  said  Don  Antonio  to  Ricote,  “ I will,  however,  use  the  most 
advisable  means,  and  leave  the  rest  to  Providence.  Don  Gregorio  shall  go  with  me  to  comfort 
his  parents,  who  have  long  mourned  for  his  absence.  Anna  Felix  shall  stay  here  with  my  wife, 
or  in  some  monastery ; and  as  for  honest  Ricote,  I dare  engage  the  viceroy  will  be  satisfied  to  let 
him  remain  under  his  protection  till  he  see  how  I succeed.” 

The  viceroy  consented  to  all  this,  but  Don  Gregorio,  fearing  the  worst,  was  unwilling  to 
leave  his  fair  mistress  ; however,  considering  that  he  might  return  to  her  after  he  had  seen  his 
parents,  he  yielded  to  the  proposal,  and  so  Anna  Felix  remained  with  Don  Antonio’s  lady,  and 
Ricote  with  the  viceroy. 

Two  days  after,  Don  Quixote,  being  somewhat  recovered,  took  his  leave  of  Don  Antonio, 
and  having  caused  his  armour  to  be  laid  on  Dapple,  he  set  forwards  on  his  journey  home,  Sancho 
thus  being  forced  to  trudge  after  him  on  foot.  On  the  other  side,  Don  Gregorio  bid  adieu  to 
Anna  Felix;  and  their  separation,  though  but  for  a while,  was  attended  with  floods  of  tears  and 
all  the  excess  of  passionate  sorrow.  Ricote  offered  him  a thousand  crowns,  but  he  refused  them, 
and  only  borrowed  five  of  Don  Antonio,  to  repay  him  at  court. 


mtik* 


4'W. 


r ■ 


< * . 


CHAPTER  LX VI. 

WHICH  TREATS  OF  THAT  WHICH  SHALL  BE  SEEN  BY  HIM  THAT  READS  IT,  AND  HEARD  BY  HIM  THAT 

LISTENS  WHEN  IT  IS  READ. 

DON  QUIXOTE,  ns  he  went  out  of  Barcelona,  cast  his  eyes  on  the  spot  of  ground 
where  he  was  overthrown.  “Here  once  Troy  stood,”  said  he;  “here  my  unhappy 
fate,  and  not  my  cowardice,  deprived  me  of  all  the  glories  I had  purchased.  Here  Fortune,  by 
an  unexpected  reverse,  made  me  sensible  of  her  inconstancy  and  fickleness.  Here  my  exploits 
suffered  a total  eclipse  ; and,  in  short,  here  fell  my  happiness,  never  to  rise  again.” 

Sancho,  hearing  his  master  thus  dolefully  paraphrasing  on  his  misfortunes,  “ Good  sir,” 
quoth  he,  “ it  is  as  much  the  part  of  great  spirits  to  have  patience  when  the  world  frowns 
upon  them,  as  to  be  joyful  when  all  goes  well.  And  I judge  of  it  by  myself : for  if  when  I 

was  a governor  I was  merry,  now  I am  but  a poor  squire  a-foot  I am  not  sad  ; and,  indeed, 

I have  heard  say  that  this  same  she  thing  they  call  Fortune  is  a whimsical,  freakish,  drunken 

person,  and  blind  into  the  bargain  ; so  that  she  neither  sees  what  she  does  nor  knows  whom 

she  raises  nor  whom  she  casts  down.” 

“ Thou  art  very  much  a philosopher,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ thou  talkest  very 
sensibly.  I wonder  how  thou  earnest  by  all  this  ; but  I must  tell  thee  there  is  no  such  thing 
as  fortune  in  the  world,  nor  does  anything  that  happens  here  below  of  good  or  ill  come  by 


Here  fell  my  happiness,  never  to  rise  again.”—?.  806. 


8o8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


chance,  but  by  the  particular  providence  of  Heaven  ; and  this  makes  good  the  proverb,  that 
every  man  may  thank  himself  for  his  own  fortune.  For  my  part,  I have  been  the  maker  of 

mine;  but  for  want  of  using  the  discretion  I ought  to  have  used,  all  my  presumptuous  edifice 

»• 

sunk,  and  tumbled  down  at  once.  I might  well  have  considered  that  Rozinante  was  too  weak 
and  feeble  to  withstand  the  Knight  of  the  White  Moon’s  huge  and  strong-built  horse.  How- 
ever, I would  needs  adventure;  I did  the  best  I could,  and  was  overcome.  Yet,  though  it 
has  cost  me  my  honour,  I have  not  lost,  nor  can  I lose,  my  integrity  to  perform  my  promise. 
When  I was  a knight-errant,  valiant  and  bold,  the  strength  of  my  hands  and  my  actions  gave 
a reputation  to  my  deeds  ; and  now  I am  no  more  than  a dismounted  squire,  the  performance 

of  my  promise  shall  give  a reputation  to  my  words.  Trudge  on,  then,  friend  Sancho,  and  let 

us  get  home,  to  pass  the  year  of  our  probation.  In  that  retirement  we  shall  recover  new 
vigour  to  return  to  that  which  is  never  to  be  forgotten  by  me — I mean,  the  profession  of  arms.” 

They  passed  that  day,  and  four  more  after  that,  in  such  kind  of  discourse,  without  meeting 
anything  that  might  interrupt  their  journey  ; but  on  the  fifth  day,  as  they  entered  into  a country 
town,  they  saw  a great  company  of  people  at  an  inn  door,  being  got  together  for  pastime,  as 

being  a holiday.  As  soon  as  Don  Quixote  drew  near,  he  heard  one  of  the  countrymen  cry  to 

the  rest,  “ Look  ye,  now,  we  will  leave  it  to  one  of  these  two  gentlemen  that  are  coming  this 
way;  they  know  neither  of  the  parties;  let  either  of  them  decide  the  matter.” 

“ That  I will  with  all  my  heart,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ and  with  all  the  equity  imaginable, 

if  you  will  but  state  the  case  right  to  me.” 

“ Why,  sir,”  said  the  countryman,  “ the  business  is  this  : one  of  our  neighbours  here  in  this 
town,  so  fat  and  so  heavy  that  he  weighs  eleven  arrobas,  or  eleven  quarters  of  a hundred  (for 
that  is  the  same  thing),  has  challenged  another  man  of  this  town,  that  weighs  not  half  so  much, 

to  run  with  him  a hundred  paces,  with  equal  weight.  Now  he  that  gave  the  challenge,  being 

asked  how  they  should  make  equal  weight,  demands  that  the  other,  who  weighs  but  five 
quarters  of  a hundred,  should  carry  a hundred  and  a half  of  iron,  and  so  the  weight,  he  says, 
will  be  equal.” 

“ Hold,  sir,”  cried  Sancho,  before  Don  Quixote  could  answer,  “ this  business  belongs  to 
me,  that  came  so  lately  from  being  a governor  and  judge,  as  all  the  world  knows  ; I ought  to 
give  judgment  in  this  doubtful  case.” 

“ Do,  then,  with  all  my  heart,  friend  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ for  I am  not  fit  to 
give  crumbs  to  a cat,  my  brain  is  so  disturbed  and  out  of  order.” 

Sancho  having  thus  got  leave,  and  all  the  countrymen  standing  about  him,  “ Brothers,” 
quoth  he,  “ I must  tell  you  that  the  fat  man  is  in  the  wrong  box — there  is  no  matter  of  reason 
in  what  he  asks  ; for  if,  as  I always  heard  say,  ‘ he  that  is  challenged  may  choose  his  weapons,’ 
there  is  no  reason  that  he  should  choose  such  as  may  encumber  him,  and  hinder  him  from 
getting  the  better  of  him  that  defied  him.  Therefore  it  is  my  judgment,  that  he  who  gave  the 
challenge,  and  is  so  big  and  so  fat,  shall  cut,  pare,  slice,  or  shave  off  a hundred  and  fifty  pounds 


102 


They  passed  that  day,  and  four  more  after  that,  in  such  kind  of  discourse.”—/.  So8, 


8io 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


of  his  flesh,  here  and  there,  as  he  thinks  fit,  and  then,  being  reduced  to  the  weight  of  the 

other,  both  parties  may  run  their  race  upon  equal  terms.” 

“ Before  George,”  quoth  one  of  the  country  people  that  had  heard  the  sentence,  “ this 
gentleman  has  spoken  like  one  of  the  saints  in  heaven  ; he  has  given  judgment  like  a casuist ; 
but  I warrant  the  fat  squab  loves  his  flesh  too  well  to  part  with  the  least  sliver  of  it, 
much  less  will  he  part  with  a hundred  and  a half.” 

“ Why,  then,”  quoth  another  fellow,  “ the  best  way  will  be  not  to  let  them  run  at  all,  for 
then  Lean  need  not  venture  to  sprain  his  back  by  running  with  such  a load,  and  Fat  need  not 
cut  out  his  pampered  sides  into  collops.  So  let  half  the  wager  be  spent  in  wine,  and  let  us 

go  to  the  tavern  that  has  the  best,  and  lay  the  cloak  upon  me  when  it  rains.” 

“ I return  you  thanks,  gentlemen,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ but  I cannot  stay  a moment,  for 

dismal  thoughts  and  disasters  force  me  to  appear  unmannerly,  and  to  travel  at  an  uncommon 

rate ; ” and,  so  saying,  he  clapped  spurs  to  Rozinante,  and  moved  forwards,  leaving  the  people 
to  descant  on  his  strange  figure,  and  the  rare  parts  of  his  groom. 

That  night  the  master  and  the  man  took  up  their  lodging  in  the  middle  of  a field,  under 

the  roof  of  the  open  sky  ; and  the  next  day,  as  they  were  on  their  journey,  they  saw  coming 

towards  them  a man  a-foot,  with  a wallet  about  his  neck,  and  a javelin  or  dart  in  his  hand, 

just  like  a foot  post.  The  man  mended  his  pace  when  he  came  near  Don  Quixote,  and, 

almost  running,  came  with  a great  deal  of  joy  in  his  looks,  and  embraced  Don  Quixote’s 

right  thigh,  for  he  could  reach  no  higher.  “ My  Lord  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,”  cried  he, 
“ oh  ! how  heartily  glad  my  lord  duke  will  be  when  he  understands  you  are  coming  again  to 
his  castle,  for  there  he  is  still  with  my  lady  duchess.” 

“ I do  not  know  you,  friend,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ nor  can  I imagine  who  you 

should  be,  unless  you  tell  me  yourself.” 

“My  name  is  Tosilos,  if  it  please  your  honour;  I am  my  lord  duke’s  footman,  the  same 
who  would  not  fight  with  you  about  Donna  Rodriguez’s  daughter.” 

“ Bless  me ! ” cried  Don  Quixote ; “ is  it  possible  you  should  be  the  man  whom  those 

enemies  of  mine,  the  magicians,  transformed  into  a lackey,  to  deprive  me  of  that  combat  ? ” 

“ Softly,  good  sir,”  replied  the  footman ; “ there  was  neither  enchantment  nor  transforma- 
tion in  the  case.  I was  as  much  a footman  when  I entered  the  lists  as  when  I came  out ; 
and  it  was  because  I had  a mind  to  marry  the  young  gentlewoman  that  I refused  to  fight. 
But  I was  sadly  disappointed ; for,  when  you  were  gone,  my  lord  duke  had  me  soundly 
banged  for  not  doing  as  he  ordered  me  in  that  matter ; and  the  upshot  was  this  : Donna 

Rodriguez  is  packed  away  to  seek  her  fortune,  and  the  daughter  is  shut  up  in  a nunnery. 
As  for  me,  I am  going  to  Barcelona  with  a parcel  of  letters  from  my  lord  to  the  viceroy. 
However,  sir,  if  you  please  to  take  a sip,  I have  here  a calabash  full  of  the  best.  It  is  a 
little  hot,  I must  own,  but  it  is  neat,  and  I have  some  excellent  cheese  that  will  make  it  go 
down.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


SlI 


“ I take  you  at  your  word,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ I am  no  proud  man ; ‘ leave  ceremonies  to  the 
church;’  and  so  let  us  drink,  honest  Tosilos,  in  spite  of  all  the  enchanters  in  the  Indies.” 

“ Well,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ thou  art  certainly  the  veriest  glutton  that  ever  was, 
and  the  silliest  blockhead  in  the  world,  else  thou  wouldst  consider  that  this  man  thcu  seest 
here  is  enchanted,  and  a sham  lackey.  Then  stay  with  him,  if  thou  thinkest  fit,  and  gratify 
thy  voracious  appetite  ; for  my  part,  I will  ride  softly  on  before.” 

Tosilos  smiled,  and,  laying  his  bottle  and  his  cheese  upon  the  grass,  he  and  Sancho  sat 
down  there,  and,  like  sociable  messmates,  never  stirred  till  they  had  quite  cleared  the  wallet  of 
all  that  was  in  it  fit  for  the  belly,  and  this  with  such  an  appetite,  that,  when  all  was  consumed, 
tiiey  licked  the  very  packet  of  letters,  because  it  smelt  of  cheese. 


CHAPTER  LXVII. 

HOW  DON  QUIXOTE  RESOLVED  TO  TURN  SHEPHERD,  A.ND  LEAD  A RURAL  LIFE  FOR  THE  YEAR’S  TIME 
HE  WAS  OBLIGED  NOT  TO  BEAR  ARMS;  WITH  OTHER  PASSAGES  TRULY  GOOD  AND  DIVERTING. 

IF  Don  Quixote  was  much  disturbed  in  mind  before  his  overthrow,  he  was  much  more 

disquieted  after  it.  While  he  stayed  for  his  squire  under  a tree,  a thousand  thoughts 

crowded  into  his  head,  like  flies  in  a honey-pot ; sometimes  he  pondered  on  the  means  to  free 
Dulcinea  from  enchantment,  and  at  others  on  the  life  he  was  to  lead  during  his  involuntary 
retirement.  In  this  brown  study  Sanchc  cime  up  to  him,  crying  up  Tosilos  as  the  honestest 

fellow,  and  the  most  gentleman-like  footman  in  the  world. 

“Is  it  possible,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “thou  shouldst  still  take  that  man  for  a real 
lackey  ? Hast  thou  forgotten  how  thou  sawest  Dulcinea  converted  and  transformed  into  the 
resemblance  of  a rustic  wench,  and  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors  into  the  bachelor  Carrasco,  and 
all  this  by  the  necromantic  arts  of  those  evil-minded  magicians  that  persecute  me  ? But,  laying 
this  aside,  pr’ythee,  tell  me,  didst  thou  not  ask  Tosilos  what  became  of  Altisidora  ? — whether 
she  bemoaned  my  absence,  or  dismissed  from  her  breast  those  amorous  sentiments  that  disturbed 
her  when  I was  near  her?” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


81  3 

“Faith  and  troth,”  quoth  Sancho,  “my  head  ran  on  something  else,  and  I was  too  well 
employed  to  think  on  such  foolish  stuff.  Bless  me,  sir ! are  you  now  in  a mood  to  ask  about 
other  folks’  thoughts,  especially  their  love-thoughts  too?” 

“ Look  you,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ there  is  a great  deal  of  difference  between  those  actions 
that  proceed  from  love  and  those  that  are  the  effect  of  gratitude.  It  is  possible  a gentleman 
should  not  be  at  all  amorous ; but,  strictly  speaking,  he  cannot  be  ungrateful.  It  is  very  likely 
that  Altisidora  loved  me  well ; she  presented  me  with  three  nightcaps  ; she  wept  when  I went  away, 
cursed  me,  abused  me — all  tokens  that  she  was  deeply  in  love  with  me,  for  the  anger  of  lovers 
commonly  vents  itself  in  curses.  It  was  not  in  my  power  to  give  her  any  hopes,  nor  had  I any 
costly  present  to  bestow  on  her,  for  all  I have  is  reserved  for  Dulcinea,  and  the  treasures  of 
a knight-errant  are  but  fairy  gold,  and  a delusive  good ; so  all  I can  do  is  only  to  remember  the 
unfortunate  fair,  without  prejudice,  however,  to  the  rights  of  my  Dulcinea,  whom  thou  greatly 
injurest,  Sancho,  by  delaying  the  accomplishment  of  the  penance  that  must  free  the  poor  lady 
from  misery.  And,  since  thou  art  so  ungenerously  sparing  of  that  pampered  hide  of  thine,  may 
I see  it  devoured  by  wolves,  rather  than  see  it  kept  so  charily  for  the  worms.” 

“ Sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ to  deal  plainly  with  you,  it  cannot,  for  the  blood  of  me,  enter  into 

my  head  that  jerking  my  back  will  signify  a straw  to  the  disenchanting  of  the  enchanted.  Sir, 
it  is  as  if  we  should  say,  ‘ If  your  head  aches,  anoint  your  shins.’  At  least,  I dare  be  sworn 

that,  in  all  the  stories  of  knight-errantry  you  have  thumbed  over,  you  never  knew  flogging 

unbewitched  anybody.  However,  when  I can  find  myself  in  the  humour,  do  you  see,  I will 
about  it : when  time  serves,  I will  chastise  myself,  never  fear.” 

“ I wish  thou  wouldst,”  answered  Don  Quixote;  “and  may  Heaven  give  thee  grace  at  least 
to  understand  how  much  it  is  thy  duty  to  relieve  thy  mistress  ! for,  as  she  is  mine,  by  consequence 
she  is  thine,  since  thou  belongest  to  me.” 

Thus  they  went  on  talking,  till  they  came  near  the  place  where  the  bulls  had  run  over 
them  ; and  Don  Quixote  knowing  it  again, — 

“ Sancho,”  said  he,  “ yonder  is  that  meadow  where  we  met  the  fine  shepherdesses  and  the 
gallant  shepherds,  who  had  a mind  to  renew  or  imitate  the  pastoral  Arcadia.  It  was  certainly 
a new  and  ingenious  conceit.  If  thou  thinkest  well  of  it,  we  will  follow  their  example,  and  turn 
shepherds  too,  at  least  for  the  time  I am  to  lay  aside  the  profession  of  arms.  I will  buy  a flock 
of  sheep,  and  everything  that  is  fit  for  a pastoral  life  ; and  so,  calling  myself  the  shepherd  Quixotis, 
and  thee  the  shepherd  Pansino,  we  will  range  the  woods,  the  hills,  and  meadows,  singing  and 
versifying.  We  will  drink  the  liquid  crystal,  sometimes  out  of  the  fountains,  and  sometimes  from 
the  purling  brooks  and  swift-gliding  streams.  The  oaks,  the  cork-trees,  and  chesnut-trees  will 
afford  us  both  lodging  and  diet ; the  willows  will  yield  us  their  shade,  the  roses  present  us  their 
inoffensive  sweets,  and  the  spacious  meads  will  be  our  carpets,  diversified  with  colours  of  all 
sorts ; blest  with  the  purest  air,  and  unconfined  alike,  we  shall  breathe  that  and  freedom.  The 
moon  and  stars,  our  tapers  of  the  night,  shall  light  our  evening  walks.  Light  hearts  will  make 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


814 

us  merry,  and  mirth  will  make  us  sing.  Love  will  inspire  us  with  a theme  and  wit,  and  Apollo 
with  harmonious  lays.  So  shall  we  become  famous,  not  only  while  we  live,  but  make  our  loves 
eternal  as  our  songs.’ 

“ As  I live,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ this  sort  of  life  nicks  me  to  a hair  ; and  I fancy  that,  if  the 
bachelor  Samson  Carrasco  and  Master  Nicholas  have  but  once  a glimpse  of  it,  they  will  even 
turn  shepherds  too ; nay,  it  is  well  if  the  curate  does  not  put  in  for  one  among  the  rest,  for 
he  is  a notable  joker,  and  merrily  inclined.” 

“ That  was  well  thought  on,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “and  then,  if  the  bachelor  will  make  one 
among  us,  as  I doubt  not  but  he  will,  he  may  call  himself  the  shepherd  Samsonino  or  Carrascon, 
and  Master  Nicholas,  Niculoso,  as  formerly  old  Boscan  called  himself  Nemoroso.  For  the  curate, 

I do  not  well  know  what  name  we  shall  give  him,  unless  we  should  call  him  the  shepherd 
Curiambro.  As  for  the  shepherdesses,  with  whom  we  must  fall  in  love,  we  cannot  be  at  a loss 
to  find  them  names — there  are  enough  for  us  to  pick  and  choose — and,  since  my  mistress’s  name 
is  not  improper  for  a shepherdess  any  more  than  for  a princess,  I will  not  trouble  myself  to 
get  a better ; thou  mayest  call  thine  as  thou  pleasest.” 

“ P'or  my  part,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I do  not  think  of  any  other  name  for  mine  than  Teresona; 
that  will  fit  her  fat  sides  full  well,  and  is  taken  from  her  Christian  name  too.  So,  when  I come 
to  mention  her  in  my  verses,  everybody  will  know  her  to  be  my  wife,  and  commend  my  honesty. 
As  for  the  curate,  he  must  be  contented  without  a shepherdess,  for  good  example’s  sake.  As  for 
the  bachelor,  let  him  take  his  own  choice,  if  he  means  to  have  one.” 

“Bless  me!”  said  Don  Quixote,  “what  a life  shall  we  lead!  What  a melody  of  oaten 
reeds  and  Zamora  bagpipes  shall  we  have  resounding  in  the  air ! what  intermixture  of  tabors, 
morrice-bells,  and  fiddles!  And  if  to  all  the  different  instruments  we  add  the  albogues,  we  shall 
have  all  manner  of  pastoral  music.” 

“What  are  the  albogues?”  quoth  Sancho;  “for  I do  not  remember  I have  seen  or  ever 
heard  of  them  in  my  life.” 

“ They  are,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ a sort  of  instruments  made  of  brass  plates,  rounded  like 
candlesticks  : the  one  shutting  into  the  other,  there  arises  through  the  holes  or  stops,  and  the 
trunk  or  hollow,  an  odd  sound,  which,  if  not  very  grateful  or  harmonious,  is,  however,  not  altogether 
disagreeable,  but  does  well  enough  with  the  rusticity  of  the  bagpipe  and  tabor.  You  must  know 
the  word  is  Moorish,  as  indeed  are  all  those  in  our  Spanish  that  begin  with  Al — as  Almoasa, 
Almorsar,  Alhombra,  Alguasil,  Alucema,  Almacen,  Alcanzia,  and  the  like,  which  are  not  many. 
And  we  have  also  but  three  Moorish  words  in  our  tongue  that  end  in  i,  and  they  are  Borcequi, 
Zaquicami,  and  Maravedi ; for  as  to  Alheli  and  Alfaqui,  they  are  as  well  known  to  be  Arabic, 
by  their  beginning  with  Al,  as  their  ending  in  i.  I could  not  forbear  telling  thee  so  much  by 
the  bye,  thy  query  about  albogue  having  brought  it  into  my  head.  There  is  one  thing  more, 
that  will  go  a great  way  towards  making  us  complete  in  our  new  kind  of  life,  and  that  is  poetry. 
Thou  knowest  I am  somewhat  given  that  way,  and  the  bachelor  Carrasco  is  a most  accomplished 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


§I5 

poet,  to  say  nothing  of  the  curate,  though,  I will  hold  a wager,  he  is  a dabbler  in  it  too ; and 
so  is  Master  Nicholas,  I dare  say,  for  all  your  barbers  are  notable  scrapers  and  songsters.  For 
my  part,  I will  complain  of  absence ; thou  shalt  celebrate  thy  own  loyalty  and  constancy  ; the 
shepherd  Carrascon  shall  expostulate  on  his  shepherdess’s  disdain ; and  the  pastor  Curiambro 
choose  what  subject  he  likes  best ; and  so  all  will  be  managed  to  our  hearts’  content.” 

“Alas!”  quoth  Sancho,  “ I am  so  unlucky,  that  I fear  me  I shall  never  live  to  see  these 
blessed  days.  How  shall  I lick  up  the  curds  and  cream!  I will  never  be  without  a wooden 
spoon  in  my  pocket ! Oh,  how  many  of  them  will  I make  ! What  garlands  and  what  pretty 
pastoral  fancies  will  I contrive  ! which,  though  they  may  not  recommend  me  for  wisdom,  will 
make  me  pass  at  least  for  an  ingenious  fellow.” 

They  then  made  a slender  meal,  as  iittle  to  Sancho’s  liking  as  his  hard  lodging,  which 
brought  the  hardships  of  knight-erranting  fresh  into  his  thoughts,  and  made  him  wish  for  the 
better  entertainment  he  had  sometimes  found,  as  at  Don  Diego’s,  Camacho’s,  and  Don  Antonio’s 
houses.  But  he  considered,  after  all,  that  it  could  not  be  always  fair  weather,  nor  was  it 
always  foul ; so  he  betook  himself  to  his  rest  till  morning,  and  his  master  to  the  usual  exercise 
* wof  his  roving,  imaginations.-  : ~ 


CHAPTER  LXVIII, 

THE  ADVENTURE  OF  THE  HOGS. 

THE  night  was  pretty  dark,  though  the  moon  still  kept  her  place  in  the  sky,  but  it  was 
in  such  a part  as  obliged  her  to  be  invisible  to  us  ; for  now  and  then  Madam  Diana 
takes  a turn  to  the  Antipodes,  and  then  the  mountains  in  black  and  the  valleys  in  darkness 
mourn  her  ladyship’s  absence.  Don  Quixote,  after  his  first  sleep,  thought  nature  sufficiently 
refreshed,  and  would  not  yield  to  the  temptations  of  a second.  Sancho,  indeed,  did  not  enjoy 

a second,  but  from  a different  reason  ; for  he  usually  made  but  one  nap  of  the  whole  night, 

which  was  owing  to  the  soundness  of  his  constitution,  and  his  inexperience  of  cares,  that  lay 
so  heavy  upon  Don  Quixote. 

“ Sancho,”  said  the  knight,  after  he  had  pulled  the  squire  till  he  had  waked  him  too,  “ I 
am  amazed  at  the  insensibility  of  thy  temper.  Thou  art  certainly  made  of  marble  or  solid 
brass,  thou  liest  so  without  either  motion  or  feeling.  Thou  sleepest  while  I wake  ; thou  singest 
while  I mourn  ; and  while  I am  ready  to  faint  for  want  of  sustenance,  thou  art  lazy  and 
unwieldy  with  mere  gluttony.  It  is  the  part  of  a good  servant  to  share  in  the  afflictions  of  his 

master.  Observe  the  stillness  of  the  night,  and  the  solitary  place  we  are  in.  It  is  a pity 


“‘Sleep,  Sancho,’  cried  Don  Quixote;  ‘sleep,  for  thou  wert  born  to  sleep.”’— p-  819. 


103 


S 1 8 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


such  an  opportunity  should  be  lost  in  sloth  and  inactive  rest ; rouse  for  shame,  step  a little 
aside,  and,  with  a good  grace  and  a cheerful  heart,  score  me  up  some  three  or  four  hundred 
lashes  upon  thy  back,  towards  the  disenchanting  of  Dulcinea.  This  I make  my  earnest  request, 
being  resolved  never  to  be  rough  with  thee  again  upon  this  account,  for  I must  confess  thou 

canst  lay  a heavy  hand  on  a man  upon  occasion.  When  that  performance  is  over  we  will  pass 

the  remainder  of  the  night  in  chanting,  I of  absence,  and  thou  of  constancy,  and  so  begin 
those  pastoral  exercises  which  are  to  be  our  employment  at  home.” 

“ Sir,”  answered  Sancho,  “ do  you  take  me  for  a monk  or  friar,  that  I should  start  up  in 
the  middle  of  the  night  and  discipline  myself  at  this  rate  ? Or  do  you  think  it  such  an 
easy  matter  to  scourge  and  clapperclaw  my  back  one  moment,  and  fall  a-singing  the  next  ? 
Look  you,  sir,  say  not  a word  more  of  this  whipping ; for  as  I love  my  flesh,  you  will  put 

me  upon  making  some  rash  oath  or  other  that  you  will  not  like ; and  then,  if  the  bare 

brushing  of  my  coat  would  do  you  any  good  you  should  not  have  it,  much  less  the  currying 
of  my  hide  ; and  so  let  me  go  to  sleep  again.” 

“ Oh,  obdurate  heart ! ” cried  Don  Quixote  ; “ oh  ! impious  squire  ! Oh,  nourishment  and 
favours  ill  bestowed  ! Is  this  my  reward  for  having  got  thee  a government,  and  my  good 
intentions  to  get  thee  an  earldom,  or  an  equivalent  at  least,  which  I dare  engage  to  do  when 

this  year  of  our  obscurity  is  elapsed  ? for,  in  short,  post  tenebras  spcro  lucent!' 

“ That  I do  not  understand,”  quoth  Sancho  ; “ but  this  I very  well  know,  that  while  I am 
asleep  I feel  neither  hope  nor  despair;  I am  free  from  pain,  and  insensible  of  glory.  Now, 

blessings  light  on  him  that  first  invented  this  same  sleep!  it  covers  a man  all  over,  thoughts 

and  all,  like  a cloak ; it  is  meat  for  the  hungry,  drink  for  the  thirsty,  heat  for  the  cold,  and 

cold  for  the  hot.  It  is  the  current  coin  that  purchases  all  the  pleasures  of  the  world  cheap, 

and  the  balance  that  sets  the  king  and  the  shepherd,  the  fool  and  the  wise  man,  even.  There 
is  only  one  thing,  which  somebody  once  put  into  my  head,  that  I dislike  in  sleep ; it  is,  that 
it  resembles  death  ; there  is  very  little  difference  between  a man  in  his  first  sleep  and  a man 
in  his  last  sleep.” 

“ Most  elegantly  spoken ! ” said  Don  Quixote.  “ Thou  hast  much  outdone  anything  I ever 
heard  thee  say  before,  which  confirms  me  in  the  truth  of  one  of  thy  own  proverbs,  ‘ Birth  is 
much,  but  breeding  more.” 

“ Bless  me,  master  of  mine ! ” cried  Sancho,  “ I am  not  the  only  he  now  that  threads 
proverbs,  for  you  tack  them  together  faster  than  I do,  I think.  I see  no  difference,  but  that 

yours  come  in  season,  mine  out  of  season  ; but  for  all  that,  they  are  all  but  proverbs.” 

Thus  they  were  employed,  when  their  ears  were  alarmed  with  a kind  of  a hoarse  and 
grunting  noise,  that  spread  itself  over  all  the  adjacent  valleys.  Presently  Don  Quixote  started 
up  on  his  legs,  and  laid  his  hand  on  his  sword.  As  for  Sancho,  he  immediately  set  up  some 
entrenchments  about  him,  clapping  the  bundle  of  armour  on  one  side,  and  fortifying  the  other 
with  the  ass’s  pack-saddle ; and  then,  gathering  himself  up  of  a heap,  squatted  down  under 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


819 

Dapple’s  belly,  where  he  lay  panting,  as  full  of  fears  as  his  master  of  surprise,  while  every 
moment  the  noise  grew  louder,  as  the  cause  of  it  approached,  to  the  terror  of  the  one  at 
least ; for,  as  for  the  other,  it  is  sufficiently  known  what  his  valour  was. 

Now,  the  occasion  was  this  : some  fellows  were  driving  a herd  of  above  six  hundred 

swine  to  a certain  fair ; and,  with  their  grunting  and  squeaking,  the  filthy  beasts  made  such 

a horrible  noise,  that  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  were  almost  stunned  with  it,  and  could  not 
imagine  whence  it  proceeded.  But  at  length,  the  knight  and  squire  standing  in  their  way, 
the  rude  bristly  animals  came  thronging  up  all  in  a body,  and,  without  any  respect  of  persons, 
some  running  between  the  knight’s  legs,  and  some  between  the  squire’s,  threw  down  both 
master  and  man,  having  not  only  insulted  Sancho’s  entrenchments,  but  also  thrown  down 
Rozinante ; and,  having  thus  broken  in  upon  them,  on  they  went,  and  bore  down  all  before 
them,  overthrowing  pack-saddle,  armour,  knight,  squire,  horse,  and  all,  crowding,  treading,  and 
trampling  over  them  all  at  a horrid  rate. 

Sancho  was  the  first  that  made  a shift  to  recover  his  legs  ; and  having  by  this  time  found 

out  what  the  matter  was,  he  called  to  his  master  to  lend  him  his  sword,  and  swore  he  would 

stick  at  least  half  a dozen  of  those  rude  porkers  immediately. 

“No,  no,  my  friend,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “let  them  even  go.  Heaven  inflicts  this  disgrace 
upon  my  guilty  head  ; for  it  is  but  a just  punishment  that  dogs  should  devour,  hornets  sting, 
and  vile  hogs  trample  on  a vanquished  knight-errant.” 

“ And  belike,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  Heaven  sends  the  flies  to  sting,  the  gnats  to  bite, 
and  hunger  to  famish  us  poor  squires,  for  keeping  these  vanquished  knights  company.  If 
we  squires  were  the  sons  of  those  knights,  or  any  way  related  to  them,  why,  then  something 
might  be  said  for  our  bearing  a share  of  their  punishment,  though  it  were  to  the  third  and 
fourth  generation.  But  what  have  the  Panzas  to  do  with  the  Quixotes  ? Well,  let  us  to  our 
old  places  again,  and  sleep  out  the  little  that  is  left  of  the  night.  To-morrow  is  a new 
day.” 

“ Sleep,  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote—"  sleep,  for  thou  wert  born  to  sleep ; but  I,  who 
was  designed  to  be  still  waking,  intend,  before  Aurora  ushers  in  the  sun,  to  give  a loose  to 
my  thoughts,  and  vend  my  conceptions  in  a madrigal  that  I made  last  night  unknown  to 
thee.” 

“ Methinks,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ a man  cannot  be  in  great  affliction  when  he  can  turn  his 
brain  to  the  making  of  verses.  Therefore,  you  may  versify  on  as  long  as  you  please,  and  I 
will  sleep  it  out  as  much  as  I can.” 

This  said,  he  laid  himself  down  on  the  ground,  as  he  thought  best,  and  hunching  himself 
close  together,  fell  fast  asleep,  without  any  disturbance  from  any  debts,  suretyships,  or  any 
care  whatsoever.  On  the  other  side,  Don  Quixote,  leaning  against  the  trunk  of  a beech  or  a 
cork-tree  (for  it  is  not  determined  by  Cid  Harriet  which  it  was),  sung,  in  concert  with  his  sighs, 
the  following  composition  : — 


820 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


A SONG  'IO  LOVE. 

Whene’er  I think  what  mighty  pain 

The  slave  must  bear  who  drags  thy  chain, 

0 Love ! for  ease  to  death  I go, 

The  cure  of  thee — the  cure  of  life  and  woe 

But  when,  alas  ! I think  I’m  sure 

Cf  that  which  must  by  killing  cure, 

The  pleasure  that  I feel  in  death 

Proves  a strong  cordial  to  restore  my  breath. 

Thus  life  each  moment  makes  me  die, 

And  death  itself  new  life  can  give; 

1 hopeless  and  tormented  lie, 

And  neither  truly  die  nor  live. 

Now  day  came  on,  and  the  sun,  darting  his  beams  on  Sancho’s  face,  at  last  awakened 
him  ; whereupon,  rubbing  his  eyes,  and  yawning  and  stretching  his  drowsy  limbs,  he  perceived 
the  havoc  that  the  hogs  had  made  in  his  baggage,  which  made  him  wish  not  only  the  herd, 
but  somebody  else  too,  elsewhere  for  company.  In  short,  the  knight  and  squire  both  set 
forward  on  their  journey,  and  about  the  close  of  the  evening  they  discovered  some  half  a score 
horsemen,  and  four  or  five  fellows  on  foot,  making  directly  towards  them.  Don  Quixote,  at 
the  sight,  felt  a strange  emotion  in  his  breast ; Sancho  fell  a-shivering  from  head  to  foot ; for 
they  perceived  that  these  strangers  were  provided  with  spears  and  shields,  and  other  warlike 
instruments  : whereupon  the  knight,  turning  to  the  squire — • 

“ Ah  ! Sancho,”  said  he,  “ were  it  lawful  for  me  at  this  time  to  bear  arms,  and  had  I my 
hands  at  liberty,  and  not  tied  up  by  my  promise,  what  a joyful  sight  should  I esteem  this 
squadron  that  approaches ! But,  perhaps,  notwithstanding  my  present  apprehensions,  things 
may  fall  out  better  than  we  expect.” 

By  this  time  the  horsemen,  with  their  lances  advanced,  came  close  up  to  them  without 
speaking  a word ; and  encompassing  Don  Quixote  in  a menacing  manner,  with  their  points 
levelled  to  his  back  and  breast,  one  of  the  footmen,  by  laying  his  finger  upon  his  mouth,  signified 
to  Don  Quixote  that  he  must  be  mute  ; then  taking  Rozinante  by  the  bridle,  he  led  him  out 
of  the  road,  while  the  rest  of  the  footmen  secured  Sancho  and  Dapple,  and  drove  them 
silently  after  Don  Quixote,  who  attempted  twice  or  thrice  to  ask  the  cause  of  this  usage ; but 
lie  no  sooner  began  to  open,  than  they  were  ready  to  run  the  heads  of  their  spears  down  his 
throat.  Poor  Sancho  fared  worse  yet ; for,  as  he  offered  to  speak,  one  of  the  foot-guards  gave 
him  a jag  with  a goad,  and  served  Dapple  as  bad,  though  the  poor  beast  had  no  thought  of 
saying  a word. 

As  it  grew  night  they  mended  their  pace,  and  then  the  darkness  increased  the  fears  of 
the  captive  knight  and  squire,  especially  when  every  minute  their  ears  were  tormented  with 
these  or  such-like  words  — 

“On,  on,  ye  Troglodytes;  silence,  ye  barbarian  slaves;  vengeance,  ye  Anthropophagi-, 
grumble  not,  ye  Scythians  ; be  blind,  ye  murdering  Polyphemes,  ye  devouring  lions.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


821 


“Bless  us!”  thought  Sancho,  “what  names  do  they  call  us  here!  Trollopites,  barber’s 
slaves,  and  Andrew  Hodge-podge,  City-cans,  and  Burframes  : I do  not  like  the  sound  of  them. 
Here  is  one  mischief  on  the  neck  of  another.  When  a man  is  down,  down  with  him.  I would 
compound  for  a good  dry  beating,  and  glad  to  escape  so  too.” 

Don  Quixote  was  no  less  perplexed,  not  being  able  to  imagine  the  reason  either  of  their 
hard  usage  or  scurrilous  language,  which  hitherto  promised  but  little  good.  At  last,  after 
they  had  ridden  about  an  hour  in  the  dark,  they  came  to  the  gates  of  the  castle,  which  Don 
Quixote  presently  knowing  to  be  the  duke’s  where  he  had  so  lately  been — 

“ Heaven  bless  me!”  cried  he,  “what  do  I see?  Was  not  this  the  mansion  of  civility  and 
humanity  ? But  thus  the  vanquished  are  doomed  to  see  everything  frown  upon  them.” 

With  that  the  two  prisoners  were  led  into  the  great  court  of  the  castle,  and  found  such 
strange  preparations  made  there,  as  increased  at  once  their  fear  and  amazement,  as  we  shall 
find  in  the  next  chapter. 


:h-  pis \n» 


CHAPTER  LX IX. 


OF  THE  MOST  SINGULAR  AND  STRANGE  ADVENTURE  THAT  BEFELL  DON  QUIXOTE  IN  THE  WHOLE 

COURSE  OF  THIS  FAMOUS  HISTORY. 


A 


LL  the  horsemen  alighted,  and  the  footmen,  snatching  up  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  in 
their  arms,  hurried  them  into  the  court-yard,  that  was  illuminated  with  above  a 
hundred  torches  fixed  in  huge  candlesticks,  and  about  all  the  galleries  round  the  court  were 
placed  above  five  hundred  lights,  insomuch  that  all  was  day  in  the  midst  of  the  darkness  of 
the  night.  In  the  middle  of  the  court  there  was  a tomb,  raised  some  two  yards  from  the 
ground,  with  a large  pall  of  black  velvet  over  it,  and  round  about  it  a hundred  tapers  of 
virgin  wax  stood  burning  in  silver  candlesticks.  Upon  the  tomb  lay  the  body  of  a young 
damsel,  who,  though  to  all  appearance  dead,  was  yet  so  beautiful,  that  death  itself  seemed 
lovely  in  her  face.  Her  head  was  crowned  with  a garland  of  fragrant  flowers,  and  supported 
by  a pillow  of  cloth  of  gold  ; and  in  her  hands,  that  were  laid  across  her  breast,  was  seen  a 
branch  of  that  yellow  palm  that  used  of  old  to  adorn  the  triumphs  of  conquerors.  On  one 
side  of  the  court  there  was  a kind  of  a theatre  erected,  on  which  two  personages  sat  in  chairs, 
who,  by  the  crowns  upon  their  heads  and  sceptres  in  their  hands,  were,  or  at  least  appeared 
to  be,  kings.  By  the  side  of  the  theatre,  at  the  foot  of  the  steps  by  which  the  kings 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  g2^ 

ascended,  two  other  chairs  were  placed,  and  thither  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  were  led,  and 
caused  to  sit  down,  the  guards  that  conducted  them  continuing  silent  all  the  while,  and 
making  their  prisoners  understand,  by  awful  signs,  that  they  must  also  be  silent.  But  there 
was  no  great  occasion  for  that  caution,  for  their  surprise  was  so  great  that  it  had  tied  up 
their  tongues  without  it. 

At  the  same  time  two  other  persons  of  note  ascended  the  stage  with  a numerous  retinue, 
and  seated  themselves  on  two  stately  chairs  by  the  two  theatrical  kings.  These  Don  Quixote 
presently  knew  to  be  the  duke  and  duchess,  at  whose  palace  he  had  been  so  nobly  enter- 
tained. But  what  he  discovered  as  the  greatest  wonder  was,  that  the  corpse  upon  the  tomb 
was  the  body  of  the  fair  Altisidora. 

As  soon  as  the  duke  and  duchess  had  ascended,  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  made  them 
a profound  obeisance,  which  they  returned  with  a short  inclination  of  their  heads.  Upon  this 
a certain  officer  entered  the  court,  and,  coming  up  to  Sancho,  he  clapped  over  him  a black 
buckram  frock,  all  figured  over  with  flames  of  fire,  and,  taking  off  his  cap,  he  put  on  his  head 
a kind  of  mitre,  such  as  is  worn  by  those  who  undergo  public  penance  by  the  Inquisition;... 
whispering  him  in  the  ear  at  the  same  time  that  if  he  did  but  offer  to  open  his  lips,  they  woukh 
put  a gag  in  his  mouth,  or  murder  him  outright.  Sancho  viewed  himself  over  from  head  fic 
foot,  and  was  a little  startled  to  see  himself  all  over  in  fire  and  flames  ; but  yet,  since  he  did 
not  feel  himself  burn,  he  cared  not  a farthing.  He  pulled  off  his  mitre,  and  found  it  pictured  ;* 
over  with  imps  ; but  he  put  it  on  again,  and  bethought  himself,  that  since  neither  the  flames  . 
burned  him,  nor  the  imps  ran  away  with  him,  it  was  well  enough.  Don  Quixote  also  stead- 
fastly surveyed  him,  and,  in  the  midst  of  all  his  apprehensions,  could  not  forbear  smiling  to  see. 
what  a strange  figure  he  made.  And  now  in  the  midst  of  that  profound  silence,  while  every- 
thing was  mute,  and  expectation  most  attentive,  a soft  and  charming  symphony  of  flutes,  that 
seemed  to  issue  from  the  hollow  of  the  tomb,  agreeably  filled  their  ears.  Then  there  appeared, 
at  the  head  of  the  monument,  a young  man  extremely  handsome,  and  dressed  in  a Roman 
habit,  who,  to  the  music  of  a harp,  touched  by  himself,  sung  the  following  stanzas  with  an 
excellent  voice  : — 

ALTISI  DORA’S  DIRGE, 

While  slain,  the  fair  Altisidora  lies 
A victim  to  Don  Quixote’s  cold  disdain  ; 

Here  all  things  mourn,  all  pleasure  with  her  dies, 

And  weeds  of  woe  disguise  the  graces’  train. 

I’ll  sing  the  beauties  of  her  face  and  mind, 

Her  hopeless  passion,  her  unhappy  fate  ; 

Not  Orpheus’  self,  in  numbers  more  refin'd, 

Her  charms,  her  love,  her  suff’rings  could  relate. 

Now  shall  the  fair  alone  in  life  be  sung, 

Her  boundless  praise  is  my  immortal  choice  ; 

In  the  cold  grave,  when  death  benumbs  my  tongue, 

For  thee,  bright  maid,  my  soul  shall  find  a voice. 


S24 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


When  from  this  narrow  cell  my  spirit’s  free, 

And  wanders  grieving  with  the  shades  below, 

Even  o’er  oblivion’s  waves  I’ll  sing  to  thee  ; 

And  hell  itself  shall  sympathise  in  woe. 

“ Enough,”  cried  one  of  the  two  kings  ; “ no  more,  divine  musician  ; it  were  an  endless 
task  to  enumerate  the  perfections  of  Altisidora,  or  give  us  the  story  of  her  fate.  Nor  is  she 
dead,  as  the  ignorant  vulgar  surmises ; no,  in  the  mouth  of  fame  she  lives,  and  once  more 
shall  revive,  as  soon  as  Sancho  has  undergone  the  penance  that  is  decreed  to  restore  her  to 
the  world.  Therefore,  O Rhadamanthus  ! thou  who  sittest  in  joint  commission  with  me  in  the 
opacous  shades  of  Dis,  tremendous  judge  of  hell  ! thou  to  whom  the  decrees  of  fate,  inscrutable 
to  mortals,  are  revealed ! in  order  to  restore  this  damsel  to  life,  open  and  declare  them 
immediately,  nor  delay  the  promised  felicity  of  her  return  to  comfort  the  drooping  world  ! ” 

Scarce  had  Mines  finished  his  charge,  when  Rhadamanthus  started  up.  “ Proceed,”  said 
he,  “ ye  ministers  and  officers  of  the  household,  superior  and  inferior,  high  and  low  ; proceed 
one  after  another,  and  mark  me  Sancho’s  chin  with  twenty-four  twitches,  give  him  twelve 
pinches,  and  run  six  pins  into  his  arms  and  back,  for  Altisidora’s  restoration  depends  on  the 
performance  of  this  ceremony.” 

Sancho,  hearing  this,  could  hold  out  no  longer,  but  bawling  out,  “Bless  me!”  cried  he, 
“Twill  as  soon  turn  Turk  as  give  you  leave  to  do  all  this.  You  shall  put  no  chin  or  counte- 
nance of  mine  upon  any  such  mortification.  What  can  the  spoiling  of  my  face  signify  to  the 
restoring  of  the  damsel  ? Dulcinea  is  bewitched,  and  I forsooth  must  flog  myself  to  free  her 
from  witchcraft!  And  here  is  Altisidora,  too,  drops  off  of  one  distemper  or  other,  and  presently 
poor  Sancho  must  be  pulled  by  the  handle  of  his  face,  his  skin  filled  with  oiled  holes, 
and  his  arms  pinched  black  and  blue,  to  save  her  from  the  worms  ! No,  no  ; you  must 
not  think  to  put  tricks  upon  travellers  ! ‘ An  old  dog  understands  trap.’  ” 

“Relent!”  cried  Rhadamanthus,  aloud,  “thou  tiger;  submit,  proud  Nimrod;  suffer  and  be 
silent,  or  thou  diest.  No  impossibility  is  required  from  thee,  and  therefore  pretend  not  to 
expostulate  on  the  severity  of  thy  doom.  Thy  face  shall  receive  the  twitches,  thy  skin 
shall  be  pinched,  and  thou  shalt  groan  under  the  penance.  Begin,  I say,  ye  ministers  of 
justice,  execute  my  sentence,  or,  as  I am  an  honest  man,  ye  shall  curse  the  hour  ye  were 
born.” 

At  the  same  time  six  old  duennas,  or  waiting-women,  appeared  in  the  court,  marching 
in  a formal  procession  one  after  another,  four  of  them  wearing  spectacles,  and  all  with  their 
right  hands  held  aloft,  and  their  wrists,  according  to  the  fashion,  about  four  inches  bare,  to 
make  their  hands  seem  the  longer.  Sancho  no  sooner  spied  them  than,  roaring  out  like  a 
bull,  “ Do  with  me  what  you  please,”  cried  he  ; “ let  a sackful  of  mad  cats  lay  their  claws  on 
me,  as  they  did  on  my  master  in  this  castle,  drill  me  through  with  sharp  daggers,  tear  the 
flesh  from  my  bones  with  red-hot  pincers,  I will  bear  it  with  patience,  and  serve  your  worships, 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  825 

but  the  conjurers  shall  run  away  with  me  at  once  before  I will  suffer  old  waiting-women  to 
lay  a finger  upon  me.” 

Don  Quixote,  upon  this,  broke  silence  : “ Have  patience,  my  son,”  cried  he,  “ and  resign 
thyself  to  these  potentates,  with  thanks  to  Heaven  for  having  endowed  thy  person  with  such  a 
gift  as  to  release  the  enchanted,  and  raise  the  dead  from  the  grave.” 

By  this  time  the  waiting-women  were  advanced  up  to  Sancho,  who,  after  much  persuasion, 
was  at  last  wrought  upon  to  settle  himself  in  his  seat,  and  submit  his  face  and  beard  to  the 
female  executioners.  The  first  that  approached  gave  him  a clever  twitch,  and  then  dropped 
him  a courtesy.  “ Less  courtesy,  and  less  sauce,  good  Mrs.  Governante,”  cried  Sancho  ; “ for, 
by  the  life  of  Pharaoh,  your  fingers  stink  of  vinegar.”  In  short,  all  the  waiting-women,  and 
most  of  the  servants,  came  and  twitched  and  pinched  him  decently,  and  he  bore  it  all  with 
unspeakable  patience ; but  when  they  came  to  prick  him  with  pins  he  could  contain  no  longer, 
but,  starting  up  in  a pelting  chafe,  snatched  up  one  of  the  torches  that  stood  near  him, 
and,  swinging  it  round,  put  all  the  women  and  the  rest  of  his  tormentors  to  their  heels. 
“Avaunt!”  he  cried,  “ye  imps!  do  ye  think  my  back  is  made  of  brass,  or  that  I intend  to 
be  your  master’s  martyr?” 

At  the  same  time  Altisidora,  who  could  not  but  be  tired  with  lying  so  long  upon  her  back, 
began  to  turn  herself  on  one  side,  which  was  no  sooner  perceived  by  the  spectators,  than  they 
all  set  up  the  cry,  “ She  lives,  she  lives!  Altisidora  lives !”  And  then  Rhadamanthus,  addressing 
himself  to  Sancho,  desired  him  to  be  pacified,  for  now  the  recovery  was  effected.  So  Don 
Quixote,  seeing  Altisidora  stir,  went  and  threw  himself  on  his  knees  before  Sancho. 

“ My  dear  son,”  cried  he,  “ for  now  I will  not  call  thee  squire,  now  is  the  hour  for  thee 
to  receive  some  of  the  lashes  that  are  incumbent  upon  thee  for  the  disenchanting  of  Dulcinea. 
This,  I say,  is  the  auspicious  time,  when  the  virtue  of  thy  skin  is  most  mature  and  efficacious 
for  working  the  wonders  that  are  expected  from  it.” 

“‘Out  of  the  frying-pan  into  the  fire!’”  quoth  Sancho.  “I  have  brought  my  hogs  to  a 
fair  market  truly  : after  I have  been  twinged  and  tweaked  by  the  nose  and  everywhere,  and 
stuck  all  over  and  made  a pin-cushion  of,  I must  now  be  whipped  like  a top,  must  I ? If 

you  have  a mind  to  be  rid  of  me,  cannot  you  as  well  tie  a good  stone  about  my  neck,  and 

tip  me  into  a well  ? Better  make  an  end  of  me  at  once  than  have  me  loaded  so  every  foot 

like  a pack-horse,  with  other  folks’  burdens.  Look  ye  : say  but  one  word  more  to  me  of  any 

such  thing,  and  all  the  fat  shall  be  in  the  fire.” 

By  this  time  Altisidora  sat  on  the  tomb,  and  presently  the  music  struck  up,  all  the  instruments 
being  joined  with  the  voices  of  the  spectators,  who  cried  aloud,  “Live,  live!  Altisidora,  live!” 
The  duke  and  duchess  got  up,  and  with  Minos  and  Rhadamanthus,  accompanied  by  Don  Quixote 
and  Sancho,  went  all  in  a body  to  receive  Altisidora,  and  hand  her  down  from  the  tomb.  She 
pretended  to  faint,  bowed  to  the  duke  and  duchess,  and  also  to  the  two  kings ; but,  after  looking 
askew  upon  Don  Quixote, — 

104 


826 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“Heaven  forgive  that  hard-hearted,  lovely  knight!”  said  she,  “whose  barbarity  has  made 
me  an  inhabitant  of  the  other  world,  for  aught  I know,  a thousand  years.  But  to  thee,”  said 
she,  turning  to  Sancho — “ to  thee,  the  most  compassionate  squire  that  the  world  contains,  I 
return  my  thanks  for  my  change  from  death  to  life ; in  acknowledgment  of  which,  six  of  the 
best  smocks  I have  shall  be  changed  into  shirts  for  thee,  and  if  they  are  not  spick  and  span 
new,  yet  they  are  all  as  clean  as  a penny.” 

Sancho  pulled  off  his  mitre,  put  his  knee  to  the  ground,  and  kissed  her  hand.  The  duke 
commanded  that  they  should  return  him  his  cap,  and,  instead  of  his  flaming  frock,  give  him 
his  gaberdine ; but  Sancho  begged  of  his  grace  that  he  might  keep  the  frock  and  mitre,  to 
carry  into  his  own  country,  as  a relic  of  that  wonderful  adventure.  The  duchess  said  he  should 
have  them,  for  he  knew  she  was  always  one  of  the  best  of  his  friends.  Then  the  duke  ordered 
the  company  to  clear  the  court,  and  retire  to  their  respective  lodgings,  and  that  Don  Quixote 
and  Sancho  should  be  conducted  to  their  apartments. 


CHAPTER  LXX. 

WHICH  COMES  AFTER  THE  SIXTY-NINTH,  AND  CONTAINS  SEVERAL  PARTICULARS  NECESSARY  FOR  TITS 

ILLUSTRATION  OF  THIS  HISTORY. 

THAT  night  Sancho  lay  in  a truckle-bed  in  Don  Quixote’s  chamber,  a lodging  not  greatly 
to  the  squire’s  liking,  being  very  sensible  that  his  master  would  disturb  him  with  impertinent 
chat  all  night  long.  And  this  entertainment  he  found  himself  not  rightly  disposed  for,  his  late 
penance  having  taken  him  quite  off  the  talking-pin  ; and  a hovel,  with  good  sound  sleep,  had 
been  more  agreeable  to  his  circumstances  than  the  most  stately  apartments  in  such  troublesome 
company.  And,  indeed,  his  apprehensions  proved  so  right,  that  his  master  was  scarcely  laid 
when  he  began  to  open. 

“ Sancho,”  said  he,  “ what  is  your  opinion  of  the  night’s  adventure  ? Great  and  mighty  is 
the  force  of  love  when  heightened  by  disdain,  as  the  testimony  of  your  own  eyes  may  convince 
you  in  the  death  of  Altisidora.  It  was  neither  a dart,  a dagger,  nor  any  poison  that  brought  her 
to  her  end,  but  she  expired  through  the  mere  sense  of  my  disdain  of  her  affection.” 

“ I had  not  cared  a pin,”  answered  Sancho,  “ what  she  might  have  died  of,  so  she  had 
but  let  me  alone ; I never  courted  her  nor  slighted  her  in  my  bom  days ; and,  for  my  part,  I 
must  still  think  it  strange  that  the  life  and  well-doing  of  Altisidora,  a whimsical,  old  gentle- 
woman, should  depend  upon  the  plaguing  of  Sancho  Panza.  But  there  are  such  things  as 


828 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


enchanters  and  witchcrafts,  that  is  certain,  from  which  good  Heaven  deliver  me!  for  it  is  more 
than  I can  do  myself.  But  now,  sir,  let  me  sleep,  I beseech  you ; for  if  you  trouble  me  with 
any  more  questions,  I am  resolved  to  leap  out  of  the  window.” 

“ I will  not  disturb  thee,  honest  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “ sleep,  if  the  smart  of  thy 
late  torture  will  let  thee.” 

“No  pain,”  answered  Sancho,  “ can  be  compared  to  the  abuse  my  face  suffered,  because  it 
it  is  done  by  the  worst  of  ill-natured  creatures — I mean,  old  waiting-women  : confusion  take 
them,  say  I ; and  so,  good  night.  I want  a good  nap  to  set  me  to  rights ; and  so,  once  again, 
pray  let  me  sleep.” 

“Do  so,”  said  Don  Quixote ; “and  Heaven  be  with  thee!” 

Thereupon  they  both  fell  asleep;  and  while  they  are  asleep  Cid  Hamet  takes  the  opportunity 
to  tell  us  the  motives  that  put  the  duke  and  duchess  upon  this  odd  compound  of  extravagances 
that  has  been  last  related.  He  says  that  the  bachelor  Carrasco,  meditating  revenge  for  having 
been  defeated  by  Don  Quixote  when  he  went  by  the  title  of  the  Knight  of  the  Mirrors,  resolved 
to  make  another  attempt,  in  hopes  of  better  fortune ; and  therefore,  having  understood  where 
Don  Quixote  was  by  the  page  that  brought  the  letters  and  present  to  Sancho’s  wife,  he  furnished 
himself  with  a fresh  horse  and  arms,  and  had  a white  moon  painted  on  his  shield ; his  accoutrements 
were  all  packed  upon  a mule ; and,  lest  Thomas  Cecil,  his  former  attendant,  should  be  known 
by  Don  Quixote  or  Sancho,  he  got  a country  fellow  to  wait  on  him  as  a squire.  Coming  to 
the  duke’s  castle,  he  was  informed  that  the  knight  was  gone  to  the  tournament  at  Saragosa ; 
the  duke  giving  the  bachelor  an  account  also  how  pleasantly  they  had  imposed  upon  him,  with 
the  contrivance  for  Dulcinea’s  disenchantment,  to  be  effected  at  the  expense  of  Sancho’s  body. 
Finally,  he  told  him  how  Sancho  had  made  his  master  believe  that  Dulcinea  was  transformed 
into  a country  wench  by  the  power  of  magic,  and  how  the  duchess  had  persuaded  Sancho  that 
he  was  deluded  himself,  and  Dulcinea  enchanted  in  good  earnest.  The  bachelor,  though  he 
could  not  forbear  laughing,  was  nevertheless  struck  with  wonder  at  this  mixture  of  cunning  and 
simplicity  in  the  squire,  and  the  uncommon  madness  of  the  master.  The  duke  then  made  it 
his  request,  that  if  he  met  with  the  knight  he  should  call  at  the  castle  as  he  returned,  and  give 
him  an  account  of  his  success,  whether  he  vanquished  him  or  not.  The  bachelor  promised 
to  obey  his  commands ; and,  departing  in  search  of  Don  Quixote,  he  found  him  not  at  Saragosa, 
but  travelling  farther,  met  him  at  last,  and  had  his  revenge  as  we  have  told  you.  Then  taking 
the  duke’s  castle  in  his  way  home,  he  gave  him  an  account  of  the  circumstances  and  conditions 
of  the  combat,  and  how  Don  Quixote  was  repairing  homewards,  to  fulfil  his  engagement  of 
returning  to  and  remaining  in  his  village  for  a year,  as  it  was  incumbent  on  the  honour  of 
chivalry  to  perform ; and  in  this  space,  the  bachelor  said,  he  hoped  the  poor  gentleman  might 
recover  his  senses,  declaring  withal  that  the  concern  he  had  upon  him  to  see  a man  of  his 
parts  in  such  a distracted  condition,  was  the  only  motive  that  could  put  him  upon  such  an 
attempt.  Upon  this  he  returned  home,  there  to  expect  Don  Quixote,  who  was  coming  after 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


82Q 


him.  This  information  engaged  the  duke,  who  was  never  to  be  tired  with  the  humours  of 
the  knight  and  the  squire,  to  take  this  occasion  to  make  more  sport  with  them  ; he  ordered 
all  the  roads  thereabouts,  especially  those  that  Don  Quixote  was  most  likely  to  take,  to  be 
watched  by  a great  many  of  his  servants,  who  had  orders  to  bring  him  to  the  castle,  right 
or  wrong. 

They  met  him  accordingly,  and  sent  their  master  an  account  of  it ; whereupon,  all  things 
being  prepared  against  his  coming,  the  duke  caused  the  torches  and  tapers  to  be  all  lighted 
round  the  court,  and  Altisidora’s  tragi-comical  interlude  was  acted,  with  the  humours  of  Sancho 
Panza,  the  whole  so  to  the  life  that  the  counterfeit  was  hardly  discernible.  Cid  Hamet  adds, 
that  he  believed  those  that  played  all  these  tricks  were  as  mad  as  those  they  were  imposed 
upon ; and  that  the  duke  and  duchess  were  within  a hair’s  breadth  of  being  thought  fools 
themselves,  for  taking  so  much  pains  to  make  sport  with  the  weakness  of  two  poor  silly  wretches. 

To  return  to  our  two  adventurers  : the  morning  found  one  of  them  fast  asleep,  and  the 
other  broad  awake,  transported  with  his  wild  imaginations.  They  thought  it  time  to  rise, 
especially  the  Don,  for  the  bed  of  sloth  was  never  agreeable  to  him,  whether  vanquished  or 
victorious. 

Altisidora,  whom  Don  Quixote  supposed  to  have  been  raised  from  the  dead,  did  that  day 
(to  humour  her  lord  and  lady)  deck  her  head  with  the  same  garland  she  wore  upon  the  tomb, 
and  in  a loose  gown  of  white  taffeta,  flowered  with  gold,  her  dishevelled  locks  flowing  negli- 
gently on  her  shoulders,  she  entered  Don  Quixote’s  chamber,  supporting  herself  with  an  ebony 
staff. 

The  knight  was  so  surprised  and  amazed  at  this  unexpected  apparition,  that  he  was  struck 
dumb  ; and,  not  knowing  how  to  behave  himself,  he  slunk  down  under  the  bed-clothes,  and 
covered  himself  over  head  and  ears.  However,  Altisidora  placed  herself  in  a chair  close  by 
his  bed’s  head,  and,  after  a profound  sigh,  “To  what  an  extremity  of  misfortune  and  distress,” 
said  she,  in  a soft  and  languishing  voice,  “ are  young  ladies  of  my  quality  reduced,  when  they 
are  forced  to  give  their  tongues  a loose,  and  betray  the  secrets  of  their  hearts  ! Alas ! noble  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  I am  one  of  those  unhappy  persons  overruled  by  my  passion,  but  yet 
so  reserved  and  patient  in  my  sufferings,  that  silence  broke  my  heart,  and  my  heart  broke  in 
silence.  It  is  now  two  days,  most  inexorable  and  marble-hearted  man,  since  the  sense  of 
your  severe  usage  and  cruelty  brought  me  to  my  death,  or  something  so  like  it,  that  every 
one  that  saw  me  judged  me  to  be  dead  ; and,  had  not  love  been  compassionate,  and  assigned 
my  recovery  on  the  sufferings  of  this  kind  squire,  I had  ever  remained  in  the  other  world.” 

“ Truly,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ love  might  even  as  well  have  made  choice  of  my  ass  for  that 
service,  and  he  would  have  obliged  me  a great  deal  more.  But  pray,  good  mistress,  tell  me 
one  thing  now,  and  so  Heaven  provide  you  a better-natured  sweetheart  than  my  master:  what 
did  you  see  in  the  other  world  ? — what  sort  of  folks  are  there  in  hell  ? for  there,  I suppose, 
you  have  been ; for  those  that  die  of  despair  must  needs  go  to  that  summer-house.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“To  tell  you  the  truth,”  replied  Altisidora,  “I  fancy  I could  not  be  dead  outright,  because 
I was  not  got  so  far  as  hell  ; for,  had  I been  once  in,  I am  sure  I should  never  have  been 

allowed  to  have  got  out  again.  I got  to  the  gates,  indeed,  where  I found  a round  dozen  of 

imps  in  their  breeches  and  waistcoats,  playing  at  tennis  with  flaming  rackets.  They  wore  flat 
bands,  with  scolloped  Flanders  lace  and  ruffles  of  the  same ; four  inches  of  their  wrists  bare, 

to  make  their  hands  look  the  longer,  in  which  they  held  rackets  of  fire.  But  what  I most 

wondered  at  was,  that,  instead  of  tennis-balls,  they  made  use  of  books  that  were  every  whit  as 

light,  and  stuffed  with  wind  and  flocks,  or  such  kind  of  trumpery.  This  was,  indeed,  most 

strange  and  wonderful ; but,  what  still  amazed  me  more,  I found  that,  contrary  to  the  custom 
of  gamesters,  among  whom  the  winning  party  at  least  is  in  good  humour,  and  the  losers  only 
angry,  these  hellish  tossers  of  books,  of  both  sides,  did  nothing  but  fret,  fume,  stamp,  curse, 
and  swear  most  horribly,  as  if  they  had  been  all  losers.” 

“ That  is  no  wonder  at  all,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ for  your  devils,  whether  they  play  or  no, 
win  or  lose,  they  can  never  be  contented.” 

“ That  may  be,”  said  Altisidora ; “ but  another  thing  that  I admire  (I  then  admired,  I 
would  say)  was,  that  the  ball  would  not  bear  a second  blow,  but  at  every  stroke  they  were 
obliged  to  change  books,  some  of  them  new,  some  old,  which  I thought  very  strange.  And 
one  accident  that  happened  upon  this  I cannot  forget : they  tossed  up  a new  book,  fairly  bound, 
and  gave  it  such  a smart  stroke  that  the  very  inside  flew  out  of  it,  and  all  the  leaves  were 

scattered  about.  Then  cried  one  of  the  devils  to  another,  ‘ Look  ! look ! what  book  is  that  ? ’ 

4 It  is  the  second  part  of  the  history  of  Don  Quixote,’  said  the  other;  ‘not  that  which  was 
composed  by  Cid  Hamet,  the  author  of  the  first,  but  by  a certain  Arragonian,  who  professes 
himself  a native  of  Tordesillas.’  ‘Away  with  it!’  cried  the  first  devil;  ‘down  with  it!  plunge 
it  where  I may  never  see  it  more!’  ‘Why,  is  it  such  sad  stuff?’  said  the  other.  ‘Such 
intolerable  stuff,’  cried  the  first  devil,  ‘ that  if  I and  all  the  devils  in  hell  should  set  their  heads 
together  to  make  it  worse,  it  were  past  our  skill.’  The  devils  continued  their  game,  and 
shattered  a world  of  other  books ; but  the  name  of  Don  Quixote,  that  I so  passionately 
adored,  confined  my  thoughts  only  to  that  part  of  the  vision  which  I have  told  you.” 

“It  could  be  nothing  but  a vision,  to  be  sure,”  said  Don  Quixote  ; “ for  I am  the  only 
person  of  the  name  now  in  the  universe  ; and  that  very  book  is  tossed  about  here  at  the  very 
same  rate,  never  resting  in  a place,  for  everybody  has  a fling  at  it.  Nor  am  I concerned  that 
any  phantom  assuming  my  name  should  wander  in  the  shades  of  darkness  or  in  the  light  of 
this  world,  since  I am  not  the  person  of  whom  that  story  treats.  If  it  be  well  written,  faithful, 
and  authentic,  it  will  live  for  ages  ; but  if  it  be  bad,  it  will  have  a quick  journey  from  its  birth 
to  the  grave  of  oblivion.” 

Altisidora  was  then  going  to  renew  her  expostulations  and  complaints  against  Don  Quixote, 
had  he  not  thus  interrupted  her  : 

“ I have  often  cautioned  you,  madam,”  said  he,  “ of  fixing  your  attentions  upon  a man 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


831 

who  is  absolutely  incapable  of  making  a suitable  return.  It  grieves  me  to  have  a heart  obtruded 
upon  me,  when  I have  no  better  entertainment  to  give  it  than  bare,  cold  thanks.  I was  only 
born  for  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  and  to  her  alone  the  Destinies  (if  such  there  be)  have  devoted 
my  affection ; so  it  is  presumption  for  any  other  beauty  to  imagine  she  can  displace  her,  or  but 
share  the  possession  she  holds  in  my  soul.  This,  I hope,  may  suffice  to  take  away  all  foundation 
from  your  hopes,  to  recall  your  modesty,  and  reinstate  it  in  its  proper  bounds ; for  impossibilities 
are  not  to  be  expected  from  any  creature  upon  earth.” 

Their  discourse  was  interrupted  by  the  coming  in  of  the  harper,  singer,  and  composer  of 
the  stanzas  that  were  performed  in  the  court  the  night  before.  “ Sir  Knight,”  said  he  to  Don 
Quixote,  making  a profound  obeisance,  “ let  me  beg  the  favour  of  being  numbered  among  your 
most  humble  servants ; it  is  an  honour  which  I have  long  been  ambitious  to  receive,  in  regard 
of  your  great  renown  and  the  value  of  your  achievements.” 

“ Pray,  sir,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ let  me  know  who  you  are,  that  I may  proportion  my 
respects  to  your  merits.” 

The  spark  gave  him  to  understand  he  was  the  person  that  made  and  sung  the  verses  he 
heard  the  last  night. 

“Truly,  sir,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “you  have  an  excellent  voice,  but  I think  your  poetry  was 
little  to  the  purpose ; for  what  relation,  pray,  have  the  stanzas  of  Garcilasso  to  this  lady’s  death  ?” 

“ Oh,  sir,  never  wonder  at  that,”  replied  the  musician ; “I  do  but  as  other  brothers  of 
the  quill.  All  the  upstart  poets  of  the  age  do  the  same,  and  every  one  writes  what  he  pleases,, 
how  he  pleases,  and  steals  from  whom  he  pleases,  whether  it  be  to  the  purpose  or  no ; for,  let 
them  write  and  set  to  music  what  they  will,  though  never  so  impertinent  and  absurd,  there 
is  a thing  called  poetical  licence  that  is  our  warrant,  and  a safeguard  and  refuge  for  nonsense 
among  all  the  men  of  jingle  and  metre.” 

Don  Quixote  was  going  to  answer,  but  was  interrupted  by  the  coming  in  of  the  duke  and! 
duchess,  who,  improving  the  conversation,  made  it  very  pleasant  for  some  hours ; and  Sancho- 
was  so  full  of  his  odd  conceits  and  arch  words,  that  the  duke  and  duchess  were  at  a stand 
which  to  admire  most,  his  wit  or  his  simplicity.  After  that  Don  Quixote  begged  leave  for 
his  departure  that  very  day,  alleging  that  knights,  in  his  unhappy  circumstances,  were  rather 
fitter  to  inhabit  a humble  cottage  than  a kingly  palace.  They  freely  complied  with  his  request* 
and  the  duchess  desired  to  know  if  Altisidora  had  yet  attained  to  any  share  of  his  favour. 

“ Madam,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ I must  freely  tell  your  grace  that  I am  confident  alii 
this  damsel’s  disease  proceeds  from  nothing  else  in  the  world  but  idleness ; so  nothing  in  nature 
can  be  better  physic  for  her  distemper  than  to  be  continually  employed  in  some  innocent  and1 
decent  things.  She  has  been  pleased  to  inform  me  that  bone-lace  is  much  worn ; and  since* 
without  doubt,  she  knows  how  to  make  it,  let  that  be  her  task,  and  I will  engage  the  tumbling 
of  her  bobbins  too  and  again  will  soon  toss  her  love  out  of  her  head.  Now  this  is  my  opinion, 
madam,  and  my  advice.” 


832 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ And  mine,  too,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ for  I never  knew  any  of  your  bone-lace  makers  die 
for  love,  nor  any  other  young  wench  that  had  anything  else  to  do.  I know  it  by  myself. 
When  I am  hard  at  work,  with  a spade  in  my  hand,  I no  more  think  of  my  own  dear 
wife  than  I do  of  my  dead  cow,  though  I love  her  as  the  apple  of  my  eye.” 

“You  say  well,  Sancho,"  answered  the  duchess;  “and  I will  take  care  that  Altisidora 
shall  not  want  employment  for  the  future  ; she  understands  her  needle,  and  I am  resolved  she 
shall  make  use  of  it.” 

“ Madam,”  said  Altisidora,  “ I shall  have  no  occasion  for  any  remedy  of  that  nature,  for 
the  sense  of  the  severity  and  ill-usage  that  I have  met  with  from  that  vagabond  monster  will, 
without  any  other  means,  soon  raze  him  out  of  my  memory.  In  the  meantime  I beg  your 
grace’s  leave  to  retire,  that  I may  no  longer  behold,  I will  not  say  his  woful  figure,  but  his 
ugly  and  abominable  countenance.” 

“ These  words,”  said  the  duke,  “ put  me  in  mind  of  the  proverb,  ‘ After  railing  comes 
forgiving.’  ” 

Altisidora,  putting  her  handkerchief  to  her  eyes,  as  it  were,  to  dry  her  tears,  and  then 
making-  her  honours  to  the  duke  and  duchess,  went  out  of  the  room. 

o 

The  discourse  ended  here.  Don  Quixote  dressed,  dined  with  the  duke  and  duchess,  and 
departed  that  afternoon. 


CHAPTER  LXXI. 


WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  DON  QUIXOTE  AND  HIS  SQUIRE  ON  THEIR  WAY  HOME. 


THE  vanquished  knight-errant  continued  his  journey,  equally  divided  between  grief  and 
joy.  As  for  Sancho,  his  thoughts  were  not  at  all  of  the  pleasing  kind ; on  the 

contrary,  he  was  mightily  upon  the  sullen  because  Altisidora  had  bilked  him  of  the  smocks 

she  promised  him  ; and  his  head  running  upon  that,  “ Faith  and  troth,  sir/’  quoth  he,  “ I have 

the  worst  luck  of  any  physician  under  the  cope  of  heaven.  Other  doctors  kill  their  patients, 

and  are  paid  for  it,  too,  and  yet  they  are  at  no  further  trouble  than  scrawling  two  or  three 
cramp  words  for  some  physical  slip-slop  which  the  apothecaries  are  at  all  the  pains  to  make 
up.  Now  here  am  I,  that  save  people  from  the  grave  at  the  expense  of  my  own  hide, 
pinched,  clapper-clawed,  run  through  with  pins,  and  whipped  like  a top,  and  yet  not  a cross 
do  I get  by  the  bargain.  But  if  ever  they  catch  me  a-curing  anybody  in  this  fashion,  unless 
I have  my  fee  beforehand,  may  I be  served  as  I have  been,  for  nothing.  Yes,  indeed!  they 
shall  pay  sauce  for  it ; no  money,  no  cure.” 

“You  are  in  the  right,  Sancho,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “and  Altisidora  has  done  unworthily 
in  disappointing  you  of  the  smocks ; though  you  must  own  that  the  virtue  by  which  thou 
workest  these  wonders  was  a free  gift,  and  cost  thee  nothing  to  learn,  but  the  art  of  patience. 
For  my  part,  had  you  demanded  your  fees  for  disenchanting  Dulcinea,  you  should  have 
received  them  already ; but  I am  afraid  there  can  be  no  gratuity  proportionable  to  the 
greatness  of  the  cure,  and  therefore  I would  not  have  the  remedy  depend  upon  a reward,  for 
who  knows  whether  it  might  hinder  the  effect  of  the  penance  ? However,  since  we  have 

105 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


bv'4 

gone  so  far,  we  will  put  it  to  a trial.  Come,  Sancho,  first  pay  your  hide,  then  pay  yourself 
out  of  the  money  of  mine  that  you  have  in  your  custody.” 

Sancho,  opening  his  eyes  and  ears  above  a foot  wide  at  this  fair  offer,  leaped  presently  at 
the  proposal.  “ Ay,  ay,  sir,  now,  now  you  say  something,”  quoth  he ; “ I will  do  it  with 
a jerk  now,  since  you  speak  so  feelingly.  I have  a wife  and  children  to  maintain,  sir,  and 
I must  mind  the  main  chance.  Come,  then,  how  much  will  you  give  me  by  the  lash  ? ” 

“ Were  your  payment,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ to  be  answerable  to  the  greatness  and  merits 
of  the  cure,  not  all  the  wealth  of  Venice,  nor  the  Indian  mines,  were  sufficient  to  reward  thee. 
But  see  what  cash  you  have  of  mine,  and  set  what  price  you  will  on  every  stripe.” 

“ The  lashes,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ are  in  all  three  thousand  three  hundred  and  odd,  of  which 
I have  had  five  ; the  rest  are  to  come.  Let  these  five  go  for  the  odd  ones,  and  let  us  come 
to  the  three  thousand  three  hundred.  At  a quartillo,  or  three-halfpence  a-piece  (and  I will  not 
bate  a farthing,  if  it  were  to  my  brother),  they  will  make  three  thousand  three  hundred  three- 
halfpences.  Three  thousand  three-halfpences  make  fifteen  hundred  threepences,  which  amounts 
to  seven  hundred  and  fifty  reals  or  sixpences.  Now  the  three  hundred  remaining  three-half- 
pences make  a hundred  and  fifty  threepences,  and  threescore  and  fifteen  sixpences  ; put  that 
together,  and  it  comes  just  to  eight  hundred  and  twenty-five  reals,  or  sixpences,  to  a farthing. 
This  money,  sir,  if  you  please,  I will  deduct  from  yours  that  I have  in  my  hands,  and  then  I 
will  reckon  myself  well  paid  for  my  jerking,  and  go  home  well  pleased,  though  well  whipped. 
But  that  is  nothing,  something  has  some  savour ; he  must  not  think  to  catch  fish  who  is 
afraid  to  wet  his  feet.  I need  say  no  more.” 

“Now  blessings  on  thy  heart,  my  dearest  Sancho!”  cried  Don  Quixote.  “Oh!  my  friend, 
how  shall  Dulcinea  and  I be  bound  to  pray  for  thee  and  serve  thee  while  it  shall  please 
Heaven  to  continue  us  on  earth ! Speak,  dear  Sancho ; when  wilt  thou  enter  upon  thy 
task  ?” 

“ I will  begin  this  very  night,”  answered  Sancho ; “ do  you  but  order  it  so  that  we  may 
lie  in  the  fields,  and  you  shall  see  how  I will  lay  about  me.” 

Don  Quixote  longed  for  night  so  impatiently,  that,  like  all  eager,  expecting  lovers,  he 
fancied  Phoebus  had  broken  his  chariot-wheels,  which  made  the  day  of  so  unusual  a length  ; but 
at  last  it  grew  dark,  and  they  went  out  of  the  road  into  a shady  wood,  where  they  both 
alighted,  and,  being  sat  down  upon  the  grass,  they  went  to  supper  upon  such  provisions  as 
Sancho’s  wallet  afforded. 

And  now  having  satisfied  himself,  he  thought  it  time  to  satisfy  his  master,  and  earn  his 
money ; to  which  purpose  he  made  himself  a whip  of  Dapple’s  halter,  and,  having  stripped 
himself  to  the  waist,  retired  farther  up  into  the  wood  at  a small  distance  from  his  master. 
Don  Quixote,  observing  his  readiness  and  resolution,  could  not  forbear  calling  after  him. 

“ Dear  Sancho,”  cried  he,  “be  not  too  cruel  to  thyself  neither.  Have  a care,  do  not  hack 
thyself  to  pieces.  I mean,  I would  not  have  thee  kill  thyself  before  thou  gettest  to  the  end 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA.  835 

of  the  tally ; and  that  the  reckoning  may  be  fair  on  both  sides,  I will  stand  at  a distance,  and 
keep  an  account  of  the  strokes  by  the  help  of  my  beads ; and  so,  Heaven  prosper  thee  !” 

“ He  is  an  honest  man,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ who  pays  to  a farthing.  I only  mean  to  give 
myself  a handsome  whipping,  for  do  not  think  I need  kill  myself  to  work  miracles.”  With  that 
he  began  to  exercise  the  instrument  of  penance,  and  Don  Quixote  to  tell  the  strokes  ; but  by 
the  time  Sancho  had  applied  seven  or  eight  lashes  on  his  bare  back,  he  felt  the  jest  bite  him 
so  smartly,  that  he  began  to  repent  him  of  his  bargain.  Whereupon  he  called  to  his  master, 
and  told  him  that  he  would  be  off  with  him  ; for  such  lashes  as  these  were  modestly  worth 
threepence  a-piece  of  any  man’s  money,  and  truly  he  could  not  afford  to  go  on  at  three-halfpence 
a lash. 

“ Go  on,  friend  Sancho,”  answered  Don  Quixote ; “ take  courage  and  proceed ; I will  double 
thy  pay,  if  that  be  all.” 

“ Say  you  so  ?”  quoth  Sancho ; “ then  have  at  all.  I will  lay  it  on  thick  and  threefold. 
Do  but  listen.” 

With  that,  slap  went  the  scourge ; but  the  cunning  knave  left  persecuting  his  own  skin, 
and  fell  foul  of  the  trees,  fetching  such  dismal  groans  every  now  and  then,  that  one  would  have 
thought  he  had  been  giving  up  the  ghost.  Don  Quixote,  who  was  naturally  tender-hearted, 
fearing  he  might  make  an  end  of  himself  before  he  could  finish  his  penance,  and  so  disappoint 
the  happy  effects  of  it — 

“Hold!”  cried  he;  “hold,  my  friend!  as  thou  lovest  thy  life,  hold,  I conjure  thee!  no 

more  at  this  time.  This  seems  to  be  a very  sharp  sort  of  physic ; therefore,  pray  do  not  take 

it  all  at  once ; make  two  doses  of  it.  Come,  come,  all  in  good  time ; ‘ Rome  was  not  built  in 
a day.’  If  I have  told  right,  thou  hast  given  thyself  above  a thousand  stripes;  that  is  enough 
for  one  beating ; for,  to  use  a homely  phrase,  * The  ass  will  carry  his  load,  but  not  a double 
load;’  ride  not  a free  horse  to  death.” 

“ No,  no,”  quoth  Sancho;  “it  shall  never  be  said  of  me,  ‘The  eaten  bread  is  forgotten,’  or 
that  I thought  it  working  for  a dead  horse  because  I am  paid  beforehand.  Therefore  stand 
off,  I beseech  you ; get  out  of  the  reach  of  my  whip,  and  let  me  lay  on  the  other  thousand, 
and  then  the  heart  of  the  work  will  be  broken.” 

“ Since  thou  art  in  the  humour,”  replied  Don  Quixote,  “ I will  withdraw ; and  Heaven 
strengthen  and  reward  thee  ! ” 

With  that  Sancho  fell  to  work  afresh,  and  beginning  upon  a new  score,  he  lashed  the  trees 

at  so  unconscionable  a rate,  that  he  fetched  off  their  skins  most  unmercifully.  At  length,  raising 

his  voice,  seemingly  resolved  to  give  himself  a sparing  blow,  he  lets  drive  at  a beech-tree  with 
might  and  main — “There!”  cried  he,  “down  with  thee,  Samson,  and  all  that  are  about  thee!” 
This  dismal  cry,  with  the  sound  of  the  dreadful  strokes  that  attended  it,  made  Don  Quixote 
run  presently  to  his  squire ; and,  laying  fast  hold  on  the  halter,  which  Sancho  had  twisted 
about  and  managed  most  dexterously, — 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


836 

“Hold!"  cried  he;  “friend  Sancho,  stay  the  fury  of  thy  arm.  Dost  thou  think  I will  have 
thy  death,  and  the  ruin  ol  thy  wife  and  children,  to  be  laid  at  my  door?  Forbid  it,  Fate!  Let 
Dulcinea  stay  a while,  till  a better  opportunity  offer  itself.” 

“ Well,  sir,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ if  it  be  your  worship’s  will  and  pleasure  it  should  be  so,  so 
let  it  be,  quoth  I.  But,  for  goodness’  sake,  do  so  much  as  throw  your  cloak  over  my  shoulders, 

for  I am  all  in  a sweat,  and  I have  no  mind  to  catch  cold.” 

With  that  Don  Quixote  took  off  his  cloak  from  his  own  shoulders,  and  putting  it  over 
those  of  Sancho,  chose  to  remain  in  cuerpo ; and  the  crafty  squire,  being  lapped  up  warm,  fell 
fast  asleep,  and  never  stirred  till  the  sun  waked  him. 

In  the  morning  they  went  on  their  journey,  and  after  three  hours’  riding  alighted  at  an 
inn ; for  it  was  allowed  by  Don  Quixote  himself  to  be  an  inn,  and  not  a castle,  with  moats, 
towers,  portcullises,  and  drawbridges,  as  he  commonly  fancied  ; for  now  the  knight  was  mightily 
off  the  romantic  pin  to  what  he  used  to  be,  as  shall  be  shown  presently  at  large.  He  was 
lodged  in  a ground  room,  which,  instead  of  tapestry,  was  hung  with  a coarse  painted  stuff  such 
as  is  often  seen  in  villages.  One  of  the  pieces  had  the  story  of  Helen  of  Troy,  when  Paris 
stole  her  away  from  her  husband  Menelaus,  but  scrawled  out  after  a bungling  rate  by  some 
wretched  dauber  or  other.  Another  had  the  story  of  Dido  and  Htneas,  the  lady  on  the  top 
of  a turret,  waving  a sheet  to  her  fugitive  guest,  who  was  in  a ship  at  sea  crowding  all  the 
sail  he  could  to  get  from  her.  Don  Quixote  made  this  observation  upon  the  two  stories — 
that  Helen  was  not  at  all  displeased  at  the  force  put  upon  her,  but  rather  leered  and  smiled 

upon  her  lover ; whereas,  on  the  other  side,  the  fair  Dido  showed  her  grief  by  her  tears,  which, 

because  they  should  be  seen,  the  painter  had  made  as  big  as  walnuts. 

“How  unfortunate,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “were  these  two  ladies  that  they  lived  not  in  this 
age,  or  rather  how  much  more  unhappy  am  I,  for  not  having  lived  in  theirs  ! I would  have 
met  and  stopped  those  gentlemen,  and  saved  both  Troy  and  Carthage  from  destruction  ; nay, 
by  the  death  of  Paris  alone,  all  these  miseries  had  been  prevented.” 

“ I will  lay  you  a wager,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ that  before  we  be  much  older,  there  will  not  be 
an  inn,  a hedge  tavern,  a blind  victualling-house,  nor  a barber’s  shop  in  the  country,  but  will 
have  the  story  of  our  lives  and  deeds  pasted  and  painted  along  the  walls.  But  I could  wish 
with  all  my  heart,  though,  that  they  may  be  done  by  a better  hand  than  these.” 

“ Thou  art  in  the  right,  Sancho ; for  the  fellow  that  drew  these  puts  me  in  mind  of 
Orbaneja,  the  painter  of  Uveda,  who,  as  he  sat  at  work,  being  asked  what  he  was  about, 
made  answer,  ‘ Anything  that  comes  uppermost ; ’ and  if  he  chanced  to  draw  a cock,  he  under- 
wrote, ‘ This  is  a cock,’  lest  the  people  should  take  it  for  a fox.  Just  such  a one  was  he  that 
painted,  or  that  wrote  (for  they  are  much  the  same)  the  history  of  this  new  Don  Quixote, 
that  has  lately  peeped  out,  and  ventured  to  go  a-strolling,  for  his  painting  or  writing  is  all  at 
random,  and  anything  that  comes  uppermost.  I fancy  he  is  also  not  much  unlike  one 
Mauleon,  a certain  poet,  who  was  at  court  some  years  ago,  and  pretended  to  give  answers 


“‘Hold!’  cried  he,  ‘friend  Sancho  • stay  the  fury  of  thy  arm.’” — f>.  836. 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


838 

extempore  to  any  manner  of  questions.  But  to  come  to  our  own  affairs.  Hast  thou  an 
inclination  to  have  the  other  brush  to-night  ? What  think  you  of  a warm  house  ? would  it 
not  do  better  for  that  service  than  the  open  air  ? ” 

“ Why,  truly,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ a whipping  is  but  a whipping,  either  abroad  or  within 

doors,  and  I could  like  a close  warm  place  well  enough,  so  it  were  among  trees ; for  I love 

trees  hugely,  do  ye  see ; methinks  they  bear  me  company,  and  have  a sort  of  fellow-feeling  of 
my  sufferings.” 

“ Now  I think  on  it,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ it  shall  not  be  to-night,  honest  Sancho ; you 
shall  have  more  time  to  recover,  and  we  will  let  the  rest  alone  till  we  get  home ; it  will  not 
be  above  two  days  at  most.” 

“ Even  as  your  worship  pleases,”  answered  Sancho ; “ but,  if  I might  have  my  will,  it 

were  best  making  an  end  of  the  job  now  my  hand  is  in,  and  my  blood  up.  There  is  nothing 

like  striking  while  the  iron  is  hot,  for  ‘ delay  breeds  danger.’  ‘ It  is  best  grinding  at  the  mill 
before  the  water  is  past.’  ‘ Ever  take  while  you  may  have  it.’  ‘ A bird  in  hand  is  worth  two 
in  the  bush.’  ” 

“For  Heaven’s  sake,  good  Sancho,”  cried  Don  Quixote,  “let  alone  thy  proverbs;  if  once 

thou  goest  back  to  Sicut  erat,  or,  as  it  was  in  the  beginning,  I must  give  thee  over.  Canst 

thou  not  speak  as  other  folks  do,  and  not  after  such  a roundabout  manner  ? How  often 

have  I told  thee  of  this  ? Mind  what  I tell  you  ; I am  sure  you  will  be  the  better  for  it” 

“It  is  an  unlucky  trick  I have  got,”  replied  Sancho  ; “ I cannot  bring  you  in  three  words 
to  the  purpose  without  a proverb,  nor  bring  you  any  proverb  but  what  I think  to  the  purpose; 
but  I will  mend  if  I can.” 

And  so,  for  this  time,  their  conversation  broke  off. 


CHAPTER  LXXII. 

HOW  DON  QUIXOTE  AND  SANCHO  GOT  HOME. 

THAT  whole  day  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho  continued  in  the  inn,  expecting  the  return 
of  night,  the  one  to  have  an  opportunity  to  make  an  end  of  his  penance  in  the  fields, 
and  the  other  to  see  it  fully  performed,  as  being  the  most  material  preliminary  to  the  accom- 
plishment of  his  desires. 

In  the  meantime  a gentleman,  with  three  or  four  servants,  came  riding  up  to  the  inn, 
and  one  of  them  calling  him  that  appeared  to  be  the  master  by  the  name  of  Don  Alvaro 
Tarfe,  “Your  worship,”  said  he,  “had  as  good  stop  here  till  the  heat  of  the  day  be  over.  In 
my  opinion  the  house  looks  cool  and  cleanly.” 

Don  Quixote  overhearing  the  name  of  Tarfe,  and  presently  turning  to  his  squire,  “Sancho,” 
said  he,  “ I am  much  mistaken  if  I had  not  a glimpse  of  this  very  name  of  Don  Alvaro 
Tarfe  in  turning  over  that  pretended  second  part  of  my  history.” 

“ As  likely  as  not,”  quoth  Sancho ; “ but  first  let  him  alight,  and  then  we  will  question 
him  about  the  matter.” 

The  gentleman  alighted,  and  was  shown  by  the  landlady  into  a ground  room  that  faced 
Don  Quixote’s  apartment,  and  was  hung  with  the  same  sort  of  coarse  painted  stuff.  A while 
after  the  stranger  had  undressed  for  coolness,  he  came  out  to  take  a turn,  and  walked  into  the 


840 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


porch  of  the  house,  that  was  large  and  airy.  There  he  found  Don  Ouixote,  to  whom  addressing 
himself,  “ Pray,  sir,”  said  he,  “ which  way  do  you  travel  ? ” 

“To  a country  town  not  far  off,”  answered  Don  Ouixote,  “ the  place  of  my  nativity.  And 
pray,  sir,  which  way  are  you  bound  ? ” 

“To  Grenada,  sir,”  said  the  knight,  “ the  country  where  I was  born.” 

“ And  a fine  country  it  is,”  replied  Don  Ouixote. 

“ But  pray,  sir,  may  I beg  the  favour  to  know  your  name  ? for  the  information,  I am 
persuaded,  will  be  of  more  consequence  to  my  affairs  than  I can  well  tell  you.” 

“ They  call  me  Don  Alvaro  Tarfe,”  answered  the  gentleman. 

“Then,  without  dispute,”  said  Don  Ouixote,  “you  are  the  same  Don  Alvaro  Tarfe  whose 
r.ame  fills  a place  in  the  Second  Part  of  Don  Ouixote  de  la  Mancha’s  History,  that  was  lately 
published  by  a new  author.” 

“ The  very  man,”  answered  the  knight ; “ and  that  very  Don  Ouixote,  who  is  the  principal 
subject  of  that  book,  was  my  intimate  acquaintance.  I am  the  person  that  enticed  him  from 
his  habitation,  so  far,  at  least,  that  he  had  never  seen  the  tournament  at  Saragosa  had  it  not 
been  through  my  persuasions,  and  in  my  company ; and,  indeed,  as  it  happened,  I proved  the 
best  friend  he  had,  and  did  him  a singular  piece  of  service,  for  had  I not  stood  by  him,  his 
intolerable  impudence  had  brought  him  to  some  shameful  punishment.” 

“ But  pray,  sir,”  said  Don  Ouixote,  “ be  pleased  to  tell  me  one  thing  : am  I anything  like 
that  Don  Ouixote  of  yours  ? ” 

“ The  farthest  from  it  in  the  world,  sir,  ” replied  the  other. 

“ And  had  he,”  said  our  knight,  “ one  Sancho  Panza  for  his  squire  ? ” 

“Yes,”  said  Don  Alvaro,  “but  I was  the  most  deceived  in  him  that  could  be;  for,  by 
report,  that  same  squire  was  a comical,  witty  fellow,  but  I found  him  a very  great  blockhead.” 

“ I thought  no  less,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ for  it  is  not  in  everybody’s  power  to  crack  a jest, 
or  say  pleasant  things ; and  that  Sancho  you  talk  of  must  be  some  paltry  ragamuffin — some 
guttling  mumper,  or  pilfering  crack-rope,  I warrant  him  ; for  it  is  I that  am  the  true  Sancho 
Panza ; it  is  I that  am  the  merry-conceited  squire,  that  have  always  a tinker’s  budget  full  of 
wit  and  waggery,  that  will  make  gravity  grin  in  spite  of  its  teeth.  If  you  will  not  believe 
me,  do  but  try  me  ; keep  my  company  for  a twelvemonth  or  so,  you  will  find  what  a shower 
of  jokes  and  notable  things  drop  from  me  every  foot.  Ah ! I set  everybody  a-laugning 
many  times,  and  yet  I wish  I may  be  hanged  if  I designed  it  in  the  least.  And  then  for  the 
true  Don  Ouixote  de  la  Mancha,  here  you  have  him  before  you — the  staunch,  the  famous, 
the  valiant,  the  wise,  the  loving  Don  Ouixote  de  la  Mancha,  the  righter  of  wrongs,  the 
punisher  of  wickedness,  the  father  to  the  fatherless,  the  bully-rock  of  widows,  the  protector  of 
damsels  and  maidens ; he  whose  only  dear  and  sweetheart  is  the  peerless  Dulcinea  del 
Toboso;  here  he  is,  and  here  am  I his  squire.  All  other  Don  Quixotes,  and  all  Sancho 
Par.zas,  besides  us  two,  are  but  shams,  and  tales  of  a tub.” 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


841 

“Now,  by  the  sword  of  St.  Jago,  honest  friend,”  said  Don  Alvaro,  “I  believe  as  much, 
for  the  little  thou  hast  uttered  now  has  more  of  the  humour  than  all  I ever  heard  come 
from  the  other.  The  blockhead  seemed  to  carry  all  his  brains  in  his  stomach ; there  is  nothing 
a jest  with  him  but  filling  his  belly,  and  the  rogue  is  too  heavy  to  be  diverting.  For  my 
part,  I believe  the  enchanters  that  persecute  the  good  Don  Quixote  sent  the  bad  one  to 
persecute  me  too.  I cannot  tell  what  to  make  of  this  matter ; for  though  I can  take  my 
oath  I left  one  Don  Quixote  under  the  surgeon’s  hands  at  the  nuncio’s  house  in  Toledo,  yet 
here  starts  up  another  Don  Quixote  quite  different  from  mine.” 

“For  my  part,”  said  our  knight,  “I  dare  not  avow  myself  the  good,  but  I may  venture 
to  say  I am  not  the  bad  one  ; and,  as  a proof  of  it,  sir,  be  assured  that  in  the  whole  course 
of  my  life  I never  saw  the  city  of  Saragosa  ; and,  so  far  from  it,  that  hearing  this  usurper  of 
my  name  had  appeared  there  at  the  tournament,  I declined  coming  near  it,  being  resolved  to 
convince  the  world  that  he  was  an  impostor.  I directed  my  course  to  Barcelona,  the  seat  of 
urbanity,  the  sanctuary  of  strangers,  the  refuge  of  the  distressed,  the  mother  of  men  of  valour, 
the  redresser  of  the  injured,  the  residence  of  true  friendship,  and  the  first  city  in  the  world  for 
beauty  and  situation.  And  though  some  accidents  that  befell  me  there  are  so  far  from  being- 
grateful  to  my  thoughts  that  they  are  a sensible  mortification  to  me,  yet,  in  my  reflection  of 
having  seen  that  city,  I find  pleasure  enough  to  alleviate  my  misfortune.  In  short,  Don 
Alvaro,  I am  that  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha  whom  fame  has  celebrated,  and  not  the  pitiful 
wretch  who  has  usurped  my  name,  and  would  arrogate  to  himself  the  honour  of  my  designs. 
Sir,  you  are  a gentleman,  and  I hope  will  not  deny  me  the  favour  to  depose  before  the 
magistrate  of  this  place  that  you  never  saw  me  in  all  your  life  till  this  day,  and  that  I am 
not  the  Don  Quixote  mentioned  in  that  Second  Part,  nor  was  this  Sancho  Panza,  my  squire, 
the  person  you  knew  formerly.” 

“ With  all  my  heart,”  said  Don  Alvaro ; “ though  I must  own  myself  not  a little  confounded 
to  find  at  the  same  time  two  Don  Quixotes,  and  two  Sancho  Panzas,  as  different  in  their 
behaviour  as  they  are  alike  in  name.  For  my  part,  I do  not  know  what  to  think  of  it  ; and  I 
am  sometimes  apt  to  fancy  my  senses  have  been  imposed  upon.” 

“ Ay,  ay,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ there  has  been  foul  play,  to  be  sure.  The  same  trick  that 
served  to  bewitch  my  Lady  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  has  been  played  you;  and  if  three  thousand 
and  odd  lashes  laid  on  by  me  on  my  body  would  disenchant  your  worship  as  well  as  her, 
they  should  be  at  your  service  with  all  my  heart ; and  what  is  more,  they  should  not  cost 
you  a farthing.” 

“ I do  not  understand  what  you  mean  by  those  lashes,”  said  Don  Alvaro. 

“ Thereby  hangs  a tale,”  quoth  Sancho,  “ but  that  is  too  long  to  relate  at  a minute’s 
warning ; but  if  it  be  our  luck  to  be  fellow-travellers,  you  may  chance  to  hear  more  of  the 
matter.” 

Dinner-time  being  come,  Don  Quixote  and  Don  Alvaro  dined  together ; and  the  mayor,  or 
106 


842 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


bailiff  of  the  town,  happening  to  come  into  the  inn  with  a public  notary,  Don  Quixote  desired 
him  to  take  the  deposition  which  Don  Alvaro  Tarfe  there  present  was  ready  to  give,  con- 
fessing and  declaring  that  the  said  deponent  had  not  any  knowledge  of  the  Don  Quixote 
there  present,  and  that  the  said  Don  Quixote  was  not  the  same  person  that  he,  this  deponent, 
had  seen  mentioned  in  a certain  printed  history,  entitled  or  called  * The  Second  Part  of  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,’  written  by  Avellaneda,  a native  of  Tordesillas.  In  short,  the  notary 
drew  up  and  engrossed  the  affidavit  in  due  form  ; and  the  testimonial  wanted  nothing  to 
make  it  answer  all  the  intentions  of  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho,  who  were  as  much  pleased  as 
if  it  had  been  a matter  of  the  greatest  consequence,  and  that  their  words  and  behaviour  had 
not  been  enough  to  make  the  distinction  apparent  between  the  two  Don  Quixotes  and  the 
two  Sanchos. 

The  compliments  and  offers  of  service  that  passed  after  that  between  Don  Alvaro  and 
Don  Quixote  were  not  a few ; and  our  knight  of  La  Mancha  behaved  himself  therein  with  so 
much  discretion,  that  Don  Alvaro  was  convinced  he  was  mistaken  ; for  he  thought  there  was 
some  enchantment  in  the  case,  since  he  had  thus  met  with  two  knights  and  two  squires  of  the 
same  names  and  professions,  and  yet  so  very  different. 

They  set  out  towards  the  evening,  and  about  half  a league  from  the  town  the  road  parted 
into  two  ; one  way  led  to  Don  Quixote’s  habitation,  and  the  other  to  that  which  Don  Alvaro 
was  to  take.  Don  Quixote  in  that  little  time  let  him  understand  the  misfortune  of  his  defeat, 
with  Dulcinea’s  enchantment,  and  the  remedy  prescribed  by  Merlin,  all  which  was  new  matter 
of  wonder  to  Don  Alvaro,  who,  having  embraced  Don  Quixote  and  Sancho,  left  them  on 
their  way,  and  he  followed  his  own. 

Don  Quixote  passed  that  night  among  the  trees,  to  give  Sancho  a fair  occasion  to  make 
an  end  of  his  discipline,  when  the  cunning  knave  put  it  in  practice  just  after  the  same  manner 
as  the  night  before.  The  bark  of  the  trees  paid  for  all,  and  Sancho  took  such  care  of  his 
back  that  a fly  might  have  rested  there  without  any  disturbance. 

All  the  while  his  abused  master  was  very  punctual  in  telling  the  strokes,  and  reckoned 
that,  with  those  of  the  foregoing  night,  they  amounted  just  to  the  sum  of  three  thousand  and 
twenty-nine.  The  sun,  that  seemed  to  have  made  more  than  ordinary  haste  to  rise  and  see  this 
human  sacrifice,  gave  them  light,  however,  to  continue  their  journey  ; and  as  they  went  on  they 
descanted  at  large  upon  Don  Alvaro’s  mistake,  and  their  own  prudence,  in  relation  to  the 
certificate  before  the  magistrate,  in  so  full  and  authentic  a form. 

Their  travels  all  that  day  and  the  ensuing  night  afforded  on  occurrence  worth  mentioning, 
except  that  Sancho  that  night  put  the  last  hand  to  his  whipping  work,  to  the  inexpressible 
joy  of  Don  Quixote,  who  waited  for  the  day  with  as  great  impatience,  in  hopes  he  might 
light  on  his  Lady  Dulcinea  in  her  disenchanted  state  ; and  all  the  way  he  went  he  made  up 
to  every  woman  he  spied,  to  see  whether  she  was  Dulcinea  del  Toboso  or  not;  for  he  so 
firmly  relied  on  Merlin’s  promises,  that  he  did  not  doubt  of  the  performance. 


“ 4 Oh,  my  long-wished  for  home  ! ’ ” — p.  ?44- 


844 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


He  was  altogether  taken  up  with  these  hopes  and  fancies,  when  they  got  to  the  top  of 
a hill  that  gave  them  a prospect  of  their  village.  Sancho  had  no  sooner  blessed  his  eyes 
with  the  sight,  than  down  he  fell  on  his  knees.  “ Oh,  my  long-wished-for  home  ! ” cried  he, 
“ open  thy  eyes,  and  here  behold  thy  child  Sancho  Panza  come  back  to  thee  again,  if  not 
very  full  of  money,  yet  very  full  of  whipping.  Open  thy  arms,  and  receive  thy  son  Don 
Quixote  too,  who,  though  he  got  the  worst  of  it  with  another,  nevertheless  got  the  better 
of  himself,  and  that  is  the  best  kind  of  victory  one  can  wish  for  ; I have  his  own  word  for 
it.  However,  though  I have  been  swingingly  flogged,  yet  I have  not  lost  all  by  the  bargain, 
for  I have  whipped  some  money  into  my  pocket.” 

“Forbear  thy  impertinence,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “and  let  us  now,  in  a decent  manner, 
make  our  entry  into  the  place  of  our  nativity,  where  we  will  give  a loose  to  our  imaginations, 
and  lay  down  the  plan  that  is  to  be  followed  in  our  intended  pastoral  life.”  With  these  words 
they  came  down  the  hill,  and  went  directly  to  their  village. 


CHAPTER  LXXIII. 

OF  THE  OMINOUS  ACCIDENTS  THAT  CROSSED  DON  QUIXOTE  AS  HE  ENTERED  HIS  VILLAGE,  WITH  OTHER 
TRANSACTIONS  THAT  ILLUSTRATE  AND  ADORN  THIS  MEMORABLE  HISTORY. 

WHEN  they  were  entering'  into  the  village,  as  Cid  Hamet  relates,  Don  Quixote 
observed  two  little  boys  contesting  together  in  an  adjoining  field ; and  says  one  to 
the  other,  “ Never  fret  thy  gizzard  about  it,  for  thou  shalt  never  see  her  whilst  thou  hast 
breath  in  thy  body.”  Don  Quixote  overhearing  this,  “ Sancho,”  said  he,  “ did  you  mind  the 
boy’s  words,  ‘ Thou  shalt  never  see  her  while  thou  hast  breath  in  thy  body  ? ’ ” 

“Well,”  answered  Sancho,  “and  what  is  the  great  business  though  the  boy  did  say  so?” 

“How!”  replied  Don  Quixote;  “dost  thou  not  perceive  that,  applying  the  words  to  my 
affairs,  they  plainly  imply  that  I shall  never  see  my  Dulcinea  ? ” 

Sancho  was  about  to  answer  again,  but  was  hindered  by  a full  cry  of  hounds  and  horse- 
men pursuing  a hare,  which  was  put  so  hard  to  her  shifts  that  she  came  and  squatted  down 
for  shelter  just  between  Dapple’s  feet.  Immediately  Sancho  laid  hold  of  her  without  difficulty, 
and  presented  her  to  Don  Quixote ; but  he,  with  a dejected  look,  refusing  the  Dresent,  cried 

out  aloud,  “ Malum  signum  ! malum  signum  ! (“  an  ill  omen ! an  ill  omen ! ”)  a hare  runs  away, 

hounds  pursue  her,  and  Dulcinea  is  not  started.  ’ 


846 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“You  are  a strange  man,”  quoth  Sancho ; “cannot  we  suppose,  now,  that  poor  puss  here 
is  Dulcinea,  the  greyhounds  that  followed  her  are  those  dogs  the  enchanters,  that  made  her 
a country  lass  ; she  scours  away,  I catch  her  by  the  scut,  and  give  her  safe  and  sound  into 
your  worship's  hands  ? And  pray  make  much  of  her  now  you  have  her ; for  my  part,  I 
cannot  for  the  blood  of  me  see  any  harm,  nor  any  ill-luck  in  this  matter.” 

By  this  time  the  two  boys  that  had  fallen  out  came  up  to  see  the  hare ; and  Sancho 

having  asked  the  cause  of  their  quarrel,  he  was  answered  by  the  boy  that  spoke  the  ominous 

words,  that  he  had  snatched  from  his  play-fellow  a little  cage  full  of  crickets,  which  he  would 
not  let  him  have  again.  Upon  that  Sancho  put  his  hand  into  his  pocket,  and  gave  the  boy 
a threepenny-piece  for  his  cage;  and,  giving  it  to  Don  Quixote,  “There,  sir,”  quoth  he,  “here 
are  all  the  signs  of  ill-luck  come  to  nothing.  You  have  them  in  your  own  hands;  and, 

though  I am  but  a dunderhead,  I dare  swear  these  things  are  no  more  to  us  than  the  rain 

that  falls  at  Christmas.  I am  much  mistaken  if  I have  not  heard  the  parson  of  our  parish 
advise  all  sober  Catholics  against  heeding  such  fooleries ; and  I have  heard  you  yourself,  my 
dear  master,  say  that  all  such  Christians  as  troubled  their  heads  with  these  fortune-telling  follies 
were  neither  better  nor  worse  than  downright  numskulls  ; so  let  us  even  leave  things  as  we 
found  them,  and  get  home  as  fast  as  we  can.” 

By  this  time  the  sportsmen  were  come  up,  and,  demanding  their  game,  Don  Quixote 
delivered  them  their  hare.  They  passed  on,  and,  just  at  their  coming  into  the  town,  they 
perceived  the  curate  and  the  bachelor  Carrasco  at  their  devotions  in  a small  field  adjoining. 
But  we  must  observe,  by  the  way,  that  Sancho  Panza,  to  cover  his  master’s  armour,  had,  by 
way  of  a sumpter-cloth,  laid  over  Dapple’s  back  the  buckram-frock,  figured  with  flames  of  fire, 
which  he  wore  at  the  duke’s  the  night  that  Altisidora  rose  from  the  dead ; and  he  had  no 
less  judiciously  clapped  the  mitre  on  the  head  of  the  ass,  which  made  so  odd  and  whimsical 
a figure  that  it  might  be  said  never  four-footed  ass  was  so  bedizened  before.  The  curate  and 
the  bachelor,  presently  knowing  their  old  friends,  ran  to  meet  them  with  open  arms ; and, 
while  Don  Quixote  alighted  and  returned  their  embraces,  the  boys,  who  are  ever  so  quick- 
sighted  that  nothing  can  escape  their  eyes,  presently  spying  the  mitred  ass,  came  running  and 
flocking  about  them.  “ Oh,  la ! ” cried  they  to  one  another,  “ look  you  there,  boys ! here  is 

Gaffer  Sancho  Panza’s  ass  as  fine  as  a lady ! and  Don  Quixote’s  beast  leaner  than  ever.” 

With  that  they  ran  whooping  and  hallooing  about  them  through  the  town,  while  the  two 
adventurers,  attended  by  the  curate  and  the  bachelor,  moved  towards  Don  Quixote’s  house, 
where  they  were  received  at  the  door  by  his  housekeeper  and  his  niece,  who  had  already 
got  notice  of  their  arrival.  The  news  having  also  reached  Teresa  Panza,  Sancho’s  wife,  she 

came  running,  half  dressed,  with  her  hair  about  her  ears,  to  see  him  ; leading  by  the  hand  all 

the  way  her  daughter  Sanchica,  who  hardly  wanted  to  be  tugged  along.  But  when  she  found 
that  her  husband  looked  a little  short  of  the  state  of  a governor,  “ Mercy  on  me ! ” quoth 
she,  “what  is  the  meaning  of  this,  husband?  You  look  as  though  you  had  come  all  the 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

way  on  foot,  and  tired  off  your  legs,  too.  Why,  you  have  come  home  more  like  a shark  than 
a governor.” 

“Mum,  Teresa,”  quoth  Sancho ; “‘it  is  not  all  gold  that  glisters,’  and  every  man  was  not 
born  with  a silver  spoon  in  his  mouth.  First,  let  us  go  home,  and  then  I will  tell  thee 
wonders.  I have  taken  care  of  the  main  chance.  Money  I have,  old  girl,  and  I came 
honestly  by  it,  without  wronging  anybody.” 

“ Hast  got  money,  old  boy  ? Nay,  then,  it  is  well  enough,  no  matter  which  way  ; let  it 
come  by  hook  or  by  crook,  it  is  but  what  your  betters  have  done  before  you.” 

At  the  same  time  Sanchica,  hugging  her  father,  asked  him  what  he  had  brought  her 
home,  for  she  had  gaped  for  him  as  the  flowers  do  for  the  dew  in  May.  Thus  Sancho. 
leading  Dapple  by  the  halter  on  one  side,  his  wife  taking  him  by  the  arm  on  the  other,  and 
his  daughter  following,  away  they  went  together  to  his  cottage,  leaving  Don  Quixote  at  his 
own  house,  under  the  care  of  his  niece  and  housekeeper,  with  the  curate  and  bachelor  to  keep 
him  company. 

That  very  moment  Don  Quixote  took  the  two  last  aside,  and,  without  mincing  the 
matter,  gave  them  a short  account  of  his  defeat,  and  the  obligation  he  lay  under  of  being 
confined  to  his  village  for  a year,  which,  like  a true  knight-errant,  he  was  resolved  punctually 
to  observe.  He  added,  that  he  intended  to  pass  that  interval  of  time  in  the  innocent  functions 
of  a pastoral  life ; and,  therefore,  he  would  immediately  commence  shepherd,  and  entertain  his 
amorous  passion  solitarily  in  fields  and  woods,  and  begged,  if  business  of  greater  importance 
were  not  an  obstruction,  that  they  would  both  please  to  be  his  companions,  assuring  them  he 
would  furnish  them  with  such  a number  of  sheep  as  might  entitle  them  to  such  a profession. 
He  also  told  them  that  he  had  already  in  a manner  fitted  them  for  the  undertaking,  for  lie 
had  provided  them  all  with  names  the  most  pastoral  in  the  world.  The  curate  being  desirous 
to  know  the  names,  Don  Quixote  told  him  he  would  himself  be  called  the  shepherd  Quixotis  ; 
that  the  bachelor  should  be  called  the  shepherd  Carrascone  ; the  curate,  pastor  Curiambro ; and 
Sancho  Panza,  Panzino  the  shepherd. 

They  were  struck  with  amazement  at  this  new  strain  of  folly  ; but,  considering  this  might 
be  a means  of  keeping  him  at  home,  and  hoping,  at  the  same  time,  that,  within  the  year,  he 
might  be  cured  of  his  mad  knight-errantry,  they  came  into  his  pastoral  folly,  and,  with  great 
applause  to  his  project,  freely  offered  their  company  in  the  design. 

“ We  shall  live  the  most  pleasant  life  imaginable,”  said  Samson  Carrasco ; “ for,  as  every- 
body knows,  I am  a most  celebrated  poet,  and  I will  write  pastorals  in  abundance.  Sometimes, 
too,  I may  raise  my  strain,  as  occasion  offers,  to  divert  us,  as  we  range  the  groves  and  plains. 
But  one  thing,  gentlemen,  we  must  not  forget  : it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  each  of  us 
choose  a name  for  the  shepherdess  he  means  to  celebrate  in  his  lays ; nor  must  we  forget  the 
ceremony  used  by  the  amorous  shepherds,  of  writing,  carving,  notching,  or  engraving  on  every 
tree  the  names  of  such  shepherdesses,  though  the  bark  be  ever  so  hard.” 


84S 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


“ You  are  very  much  in  the  right,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ though,  for  my  part,  I need 
not  be  at  the  trouble  of  devising  a name  for  any  imaginary  shepherdess,  being  already  capti- 
vated by  the  peerless  Dulcinea  del  Toboso,  the  nymph  of  these  streams,  the  ornament  of 
these  meads,  the  primrose  of  beauty,  the  cream  of  gracefulness,  and,  in  short,  the  subject  that 
can  merit  all  the  praises  that  hyperbolical  eloquence  can  bestow.” 

“ We  grant  all  this,”  said  the  curate  ; “ but  we,  who  cannot  pretend  to  such  perfections, 
must  make  it  our  business  to  find  out  some  shepherdesses  of  a lower  form.” 

“ We  shall  find  enough,  I will  warrant  you,”  replied  Carrasco  ; “ and  though  we  meet  with 
none,  yet  will  we  give  those  very  names  we  find  in  books,  such  as  Phyllis,  Amaryllis,  Diana, 
Florinda,  Galatea,  Belisarda,  and  a thousand  more.  Besides,  if  my  shepherdess  be  called  Anne, 
I will  name  her  in  my  verses  Anarda  ; if  Frances,  I will  call  her  Francenia;  and,  if  Lucy  be  her 
name,  then  Lucinda,  and  so  forth.  And  if  Sancho  Panza  will  make  one  of  our  fraternity,  he 
may  celebrate  his  wife  Teresa  by  the  name  of  Teresania.” 

Don  Quixote  could  not  forbear  smiling  at  the  turn  given  to  that  name.  The  curate  again 
applauded  his  laudable  resolution,  and  repeated  his  offer  of  bearing  him  company  all  the  time  that 
his  other  employment  would  allow  him  ; and  then  they  took  their  leave,  giving  him  all  the  good 
advice  that  they  thought  might  conduce  to  his  health  and  welfare. 

No  sooner  were  the  curate  and  bachelor  gone,  than  the  housekeeper  and  niece,  who,  according 
to  custom,  had  been  listening  to  all  their  discourse,  came  both  upon  Don  Quixote.  “ Bless  me, 
uncle  ! ” cried  the  niece,  “ what  is  here  to  do  ? What  new  maggot  is  got  into  your  head  ? When 
we  thought  you  were  come  to  stay  at  home,  and  live  like  a sober,  honest  gentleman  in  your  own 
house,  are  you  hankering  after  new  inventions,  and  running  a wool-gathering  after  sheep,  forsooth  ? 
By  my  troth,  sir,  you  are  somewhat  of  the  latest.” 

“ Oh,  sir,”  quoth  the  housekeeper,  “ how  will  you  be  able  to  endure  the  summer’s  sun  and 
the  winter  frost  in  the  open  fields  ? And  then  the  howlings  of  the  wolves,  Heaven  bless  us  ! 
Pray,  good  sir,  do  not  think  of  it ; it  is  a business  fit  for  nobody  but  those  that  are  bred  and  born  to 
it,  and  as  strong  as  horses.  Let  the  worst  come  to  the  worst ; better  be  a knight-errant  still,  than  a 
keeper  of  sheep.  Troth,  master,  take  my  advice;  I am  neither  drunk  nor  mad,  but  fresh  and 
tasting  from  everything  but  sin,  and  I have  fifty  years  o^er  my  head.  Be  ruled  by  me ; stay  at 
home,  do  good  to  the  poor  ; and,  if  aught  goes  ill  with  you,  let  it  lie  at  my  door.” 

“ Good  girls,”  said  Don  Quixote,  “ hold  your  prating  : I know  best  what  I have  to  do  : only 
let  me  go  to  bed,  for  I find  myself  somewhat  out  of  order.  However,  do  not  trouble  your  heads  ; 
whether  I be  a knight-errant  or  an  errant-shepherd,  you  shall  always  find  that  I will  provide 
for  you.” 

The  niece  and  housekeeper,  who,  without  doubt,  were  good-natured  creatures,  then  brought 
him  something  to  eat,  and  tended  him  with  all  imaginable  care. 


CHAPTER  LXXIV. 


A 


HOW  DON  QUIXOTE  FELL  SICK,  MADE  HIS  LAST  WILL,  AND  DIED. 

S all  human  things,  especially  the  lives  of  men,  are  transitory,  their  very  beginnings  being  but 
steps  to  their  dissolution,  so  Don  Quixote,  who  was  no  way  exempted  from  the  common 
fate,  was  snatched  away  by  death  when  he  least  expected  it.  Whether  his  sickness  was  the  effect 
of  his  melancholy  reflections,  or  whether  it  was  so  pre-ordained  by  Heaven,  most  certain  it  is,  he 
was  seized  with  a violent  fever  that  confined  him  to  his  bed  six  days. 

All  that  time  his  good  friends,  the  curate,  bachelor,  and  barber,  came  often  to  see  him,  and  his 
trusty  squire  Sancho  Panza  never  stirred  from  his  bed-side. 

They  conjectured  that  his  sickness  proceeded  from  the  regret  of  his  defeat,  and  his  being 

disappointed  of  Dulcinea’s  disenchantment ; and  accordingly  they  left  nothing  unessayed  to  divert 

him.  The  bachelor  begged  him  to  pluck  up  a good  heart,  and  rise,  that  they  might  begin  their 

pastoral  life,  telling  him  that  he  had  already  written  an  eclogue  to  that  purpose,  not  inferior  to 

those  of  Sanazaro,  and  that  he  had  bought,  with  his  own  money,  of  a shepherd  of  Ouintanar,  two 

tearing  dogs  to  watch  their  flock,  the  one  called  Barcino,  and  the  other  Butron  ; but  this  had  no 

effect  on  Don  Quixote,  for  he  still  continued  dejected.  A physician  was  sent  for,  who,  upon  feeling 

his  pulse,  did  not  very  well  like  it ; and  therefore  desired  him  of  all  things  to  provide  for  his  soul's 

health,  for  that  of  his  body  was  in  a dangerous  condition.  Don  Quixote  heard  this  with  much 

more  temper  than  those  about  him;  for  his  niece,  his  housekeeper,  and  his  squire  fell  a- weeping  as 
107 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


850 

bitterly  as  if  he  had  been  laid  out  already.  The  physician  was  of  opinion  that  mere  melancholy 
and  vexation  had  brought  him  to  his  approaching  end.  Don  Quixote  desired  them  to  leave  him  a 
little,  because  he  found  himself  inclinable  to  rest ; they  retired,  and  he  had  a hearty  sleep  of  about 
six  hours,  which  the  housekeeper  and  niece  were  afraid  had  been  his  last. 

At  length  he  awoke,  and,  with  a loud  voice,  “ Blessed  be  the  Almighty,”  cried  he,  “ for  this 
great  benefit  he  has  vouchsafed  to  do  me  ! Infinite  are  his  mercies  ! they  are  greater  and  mere  in 
number  than  the  sins  of  men.”  The  niece  hearkening  very  attentively  to  these  words  of  her  uncle, 
and  finding  more  sense  in  them  than  there  was  in  his  usual  talk,  “What  do  you  say,  sir?”  said 
she  ; “has  anything  extraordinary  happened  ? What  mercies  are  these  you  mention  ?” 

“ Mercies,”  answered  Don  Quixote,  “ that  Heaven  has  this  moment  vouchsafed  to  show  me, 
in  spite  of  all  my  iniquities.  My  judgment  is  returned  clear  and  undisturbed,  and  that  cloud  of 
ignorance  is  now  removed  which  the  continual  reading  of  those  foolish  books  of  knight-errantry 
had  cast  over  my  understanding.  Now  I perceive  their  nonsense  and  impertinence,  and  am  only 
sorry  the  discovery  happens  so  late,  when  I want  time  to  make  amends,  by  those  studies  that 
should  enlighten  my  soul,  and  prepare  me  for  futurity.  I find,  niece,  my  end  approaches  ; but  I 
would  have  it  such,  that  though  my  life  has  got  me  the  character  of  a madman,  I may  deserve  a 
better  at  my  death.  Dear  child,”  continued  he,  “ send  for  my  honest  friend  the  curate,  the  bachelor 
Carrasco,  and  Master  Nicholas  the  barber,  for  I intend  to  make  my  confession  and  my  will.” 

His  niece  was  saved  the  trouble  of  sending,  for  they  all  three  came  in;  which  Don  Quixote 
perceiving,  “ My  good  friends,”  said  he,  “ I have  happy  news  to  tell  you  ; I am  no  longer  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  but  Alonzo  Quixano,  tne  same  whom  the  world,  for  his  fair  behaviour, 
lias  been  formerly  pleased  to  call  the  Good.  I now  declare  myself  an  enemy  to  Amadis  de  Gaul, 
and  his  whole  generation  ; all  profane  stories  of  knight-errantry,  all  romances,  I detest.  I have  a 
true  sense  of  the  danger  of  reading  them,  and  of  all  my  past  follies  ; and,  through  Heaven’s  mercy 
and  my  own  experience,  I abhor  them.” 

His  three  friends  were  not  a little  surprised  to  hear  him  talk  at  this  rate,  and  concluded  some 
new  frenzy  had  possessed  him.  “ What  now  ?”  said  Samson  to  him  : “ what  is  all  this,  Signor  Don 
Quixote  ? We  have  just  had  the  news  that  the  Lady  Dulcinea  is  disenchanted  ; and  now  we  are 
upon  the  point  of  turning  shepherds,  to  live  like  princes,  you  are  dwindled  down  to  a hermit  i ” 

“No  more  of  that,  I beseech  you,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “all  the  use  I shall  make  of  these 
follies  at  present  is  to  heighten  my  repentance ; and  though  they  have  hitherto  proved  prejudicial, 
yet,  by  the  assistance  of  Heaven,  they  may  turn  to  my  advantage  at  my  death  : I find  it  comes  fast 
upon  me ; therefore,  pray,  gentlemen,  let  us  be  serious.  I want  a priest  to  receive  my  confession, 
and  a scrivener  to  draw  up  my  will.  There  is  no  trifling  at  a time  like  this  ; I must  take  care 
of  my  soul  ; and  therefore,  pray  let  the  scrivener  be  sent  for,  while  Mr.  Curate  prepares  me  by 
confession.” 

Don  Quixote’s  words  put  them  all  into  such  admiration,  that  they  stood  gazing  upon  on^ 
another;  they  thought  they  had  reason  to  doubt  of  the  return  of  his  understanding,  and  yet 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


851 


they  could  not  help  believing  him.  They  were  also  apprehensive  he  was  near  the  point  of 
death,  considering  the  sudden  recovery  of  his  intellects ; and  he  delivered  himself  after  that  with 
so  much  sense,  discretion,  and  piety,  and  showed  himself  so  resigned  to  the  will  of  Heaven, 
that  they  made  no  scruple  to  believe  him  restored  to  his  perfect  judgment  at  last.  The 
curate  thereupon  cleared  the  room  of  all  the  company  but  himself  and  Don  Quixote,  and  then 
confessed  him.  In  the  meantime  the  bachelor  ran  for  the  scrivener,  and  presently  brought  him 
with  him ; and  Sancho  Panza,  being  informed  by  the  bachelor  how  ill  his  master  was,  and 
finding  his  niece  and  housekeeper  all  in  tears,  began  to  make  wry  faces  and  fall  a-crying.  The 
curate,  having  heard  the  sick  person’s  confession,  came  out  and  told  them  that  the  good  Alonzo 
Ouixano  was  very  near  his  end,  and  certainly  in  his  senses ; and  therefore  they  had  best  go 
in,  that  he  might  make  his  will.  These  dismal  tidings  opened  the  sluices  of  the  housekeeper’s, 
the  niece’s,  and  the  good  squire’s  swollen  eyes,  so  that  a whole  inundation  of  tears  burst  out 
of  those  flood-gates,  and  a thousand  sighs  from  their  hearts ; for,  indeed,  either  as  Alonzo 
Ouixano,  or  as  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  as  it  has  been  observed,  the  sick  gentleman  had 
always  showed  himself  such  a good-natured  man,  and  of  so  agreeable  a behaviour,  that  he 
was  not  only  beloved  by  his  family,  but  by  every  one  that  knew  him. 

The  scrivener,  with  the  rest  of  the  company,  then  went  into  the  chamber ; and  the 
preamble  and  former  part  of  the  will  being  drawn,  and  the  testator  having  recommended  his 
soul  to  Heaven,  and  bequeathed  his  body  to  the  earth,  according  to  custom,  he  came  to  the 
legacies,  as  follows  : — 

“ Item,  I give  and  bequeath  to  Sancho  Panza,  whom  in  my  madness  I made  my  squire, 
whatever  money  he  has  or  may  have  of  mine  in  his  hands.  And,  whereas  there  are  reckonings 
and  accounts  to  be  adjusted  between  us  for  what  he  has  received  and  disbursed,  my  will  and 
pleasure  is,  that  whatever  may  remain  due  to  me,  which  can  be  but  small,  be  enjoyed  by  him 
as  my  free  gift,  without  any  let  or  molestation,  and  much  good  may  it  do  him.  And  as, 
when  I was  mad,  he  was  through  my  means  made  governor  of  an  island,  I would  now,  in  my 
right  senses,  give  him  the  government  of  a kingdom,  were  it  in  my  power,  in  consideration  of 
his  integrity  and  faithfulness.  And  now,  my  friend,”  said  he,  turning  to  Sancho,  “pardon  me 
that  I have  brought  upon  thee,  as  well  as  myself,  the  scandal  of  madness,  by  drawing  thee  into 
my  own  errors,  and  persuading  thee  that  there  have  been  and  still  are  knights-errant  in  the 
world.” 

“ Woe’s  me,  my  dear  master’s  worship ! ” cried  Sancho,  all  in  tears ; “ do  not  die  this 
bout,  but  even  take  my  counsel,  and  live  on  a many  years  ; it  is  the  maddest  trick  a man 
can  ever  play  in  his  whole  life,  to  let  his  breath  sneak  out  of  his  body  without  any  more  ado, 
and  without  so  much  as  a rap  over  the  pate,  or  a kick  in  the  body ; to  go  out  like  the  snuff 
of  a farthing  candle,  and  die  merely  of  the  mulligrubs  or  the  sullens.  For  shame,  sir!  do  not 
give  way  to  sluggishness,  but  get  out  of  your  doleful  dumps,  and  rise.  Is  this  a time  to  lie 
honing  and  groaning  a-bed,  when  we  should  be  in  the  fields  in  our  shepherds’  clothing,  as  we 


S52 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 


had  resolved  ? Ten  to  one  but  behind  some  bush,  or  under  some  hedge,  we  may  find  the 
Lady  Madam  Dulcinea,  stripped  of  her  enchanted  rags,  and  as  fine  as  a queen.  May  haps 
you  take  it  to  heart  that  you  were  unhorsed,  and  a little  crupper-scratched  the  other  day; 
but  it  that  be  all,  lay  the  blame  upon  me,  and  say  it  was  my  fault  in  not  girting  Rozinante 
tight  enough.  \ ou  know,  too,  there  is  nothing  more  common  in  your  errantry-books  than,  for 
the  knights  to  be  every  foot  jostled  out  of  the  saddle.  There  is  nothing  but  ups  and  downs 
in  this  world,  and  he  that  is  cast  down  to-day  may  be  up  to-morrow.” 

“ Even  so,”  said  Samson  ; “ honest  Sancho  has  a right  notion  of  the  matter.” 

“ Soft  and  fair,  gentlemen,”  replied  Don  Quixote  ; “ * never  look  for  birds  of  this  year  in 
the  nests  of  the  last  ; ’ I was  mad,  but  now  I am  in  my  right  senses.  I was  once  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  but  I am  now  (as  I said  before)  the  plain  Alonzo  Ouixano  ; and  I 
hope  the  sincerity  of  my  words  and  my  repentance  may  restore  me  to  the  same  esteem  you 
have  had  for  me  before  ; and  so,  Mr.  Scrivener,  pray  go  on.” 

“ Item,  I constitute  and  appoint  Antonia  Ouixano,  my  niece  here  present,  sole  heiress  of 
all  my  estate  real  and  personal,  after  all  my  just  debts  and  legacies,  bequeathed  by  these 
presents,  shall  have  been  paid,  satisfied,  and  deducted,  out  of  the  best  of  my  goods  and  chattels  ; 
and  the  first  of  that  kind  to  be  discharged  shall  be  the  salary  due  to  my  housekeeper,  together 
with  twenty  ducats  over  and  above  her  wages,  which  said  sum  I leave  and  beaueath  her  to 
buv  her  mourning. 

“ Item,  I appoint  Mr.  Curate,  and  Mr.  Samson  Carrasco,  the  bachelor,  here  present,  to 
be  the  executors  of  this  my  last  will  and  testament. 

“ Item,  It  is  my  will,  that  if  my  niece  Antonia  Ouixano  be  inclinable  to  marry,  it  be  with 
none  but  a person  who,  upon  strict  inquiry,  shall  be  found  never  to  have  read  a book  of 
knight-errantry  in  his  life ; and  in  case  it  appears  that  he  has  been  conversant  in  such  books, 
and  that  she  persists  in  her  resolution  to  marry  him,  she  is  then  to  forfeit  all  right  and  title 
to  my  bequest,  which,  in  such  a case,  my  executors  are  hereby  empowered  to  dispose  of  to 
pious  uses,  as  they  shall  think  most  proper. 

“ Item,  I entreat  the  said  executors  that  if  at  any  time  they  happen  to  meet  with  the 
author  of  a book  now  extant,  entitled  ‘ The  Second  Part  of  the  Achievements  of  Don  Quixote 
de  la  Mancha,’  they  would  from  me  most  heartily  beg  his  pardon,  for  my  being  undesignedly 
the  occasion  of  his  writing  such  a parcel  of  impertinences  as  is  contained  in  that  book,  for  it 
is  the  greatest  burden  to  my  departing  soul  that  ever  I was  the  cause  of  his  making  such  a 
thing  public.” 

Having  finished  the  will,  he  fell  into  a swooning  fit,  and  extended  his  body  to  the  full 
length  in  the  bed.  All  the  company  were  troubled  and  alarmed,  and  ran  to  his  assistance ; 
however,  he  came  to  himself  at  last,  but  relapsed  into  the  like  fits  almost  every  hour  for  the 
space  of  three  days  that  he  lived  after  he  had  made  his  will. 

The  whole  family  was  in  grief  and  confusion  ; and  yet,  after  all,  the  niece  continued  to 


DEATH  OF  DON  QUIXOTE. — -p.  8j4- 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA. 

eat ; the  housekeeper  drank,  and  washed  down  sorrow ; and  Sancho  Panza  made  much  of  him- 
self; for  there  is  a strange  charm  in  the  thoughts  of  a good  legacy,  or  the  hopes  of  an  estate, 
which  wondrously  removes,  or  at  least  alleviates,  the  sorrow  that  men  would  otherwise  feel  for 
die  death  of  friends. 

In  short,  Don  Quixote’s  last  day  came,  after  he  had  made  those  preparations  for  death 
which  good  Christians  ought  to  do,  and,  by  many  fresh  and  weighty  arguments,  showed  his 
abhorrence  of  books  of  knight-errantry.  The  scrivener,  who  was  by,  protested  he  had  never 
read  in  any  books  of  that  kind  of  any  knight-errant  who  ever  died  in  his  bed  so  quietly,  and 
like  a good  Christian,  as  Don  Quixote  did.  In  short,  amidst  the  tears  and  lamentations  of  his 
friends,  he  gave  up  the  ghost,  or,  to  speak  more  plainly,  died ; which,  when  the  curate  per- 
ceived, he  desired  the  scrivener  to  give  him  a certificate  how  Alonzo  Ouixano,  commonly  called 
the  Good , and  sometimes  known  by  the  name  of  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  was  departed 
out  of  this  life  into  another,  and  died  a natural  death.  This  he  desired,  lest  any  other  author 
but  Cid  Hamet  Benengeli  should  take  occasion  to  raise  him  from  the  dead,  and  presume  to 
write  endless  histories  of  his  pretended  adventures. 

Thus  died  that  ingenious  gentleman,  Don  Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  whose  native  place  Cid 
Hamet  has  not  thought  fit  directly  to  mention,  with  design  that  all  the  towns  and  villages  in 
La  Mancha  should  contend  for  the  honour  of  giving  him  birth,  as  the  seven  cities  of  Greece 
did  for  Homer.  We  shall  omit  Sancho’s  lamentations,  and  those  of  the  niece  and  the  house- 
keeper as  also  several  epitaphs  that  were  made  for  his  tomb,  and  will  only  give  you  this, 
which  the  bachelor  Carrasco  caused  to  be  put  over  it : — - 

DON  QUIXOTE’S  EPITAPH. 

The  body  of  a knight  lies  here, 

So  brave,  that,  to  his  latest  breath, 

Immortal  glory  was  his  care, 

And  made  him  triumph  over  death. 

His  looks  spread  terror  every  hour  ; 

He  strove  oppression  to  control ; 

Nor  could  all  hell’s  united  power 
Subdue  or  daunt  his  mighty  soul. 

Nor  has  his  death  the  world  deceived 
Less  than  his  wondrous  life  surprised  ; 

For  if  he  like  a madman  lived, 

At  least  he  like  a wise  one  died. 

Here  the  sagacious  Cid  Hamet,  addressing  himself  to  his  pen,  “ Oh,  thou,  my  slender  pen! 
says  he,  “ thou,  of  whose  nib,  whether  well  or  ill  cut,  I dare  not  speak  my  thoughts ! 
suspended  by  this  brass  wire,  remain  upon  this  spit-rack  where  I lodge  thee ! There  mayest 
thou  claim  a being  many  ages,  unless  presumptuous  and  wicked  historians  take  thee  down 
to  profane  thee ! But,  ere  they  lay  their  heavy  hands  upon  thee,  bid  them  beware,  and,  as 
well  as  thou  canst,  in  their  own  style,  tell  them— 


DON  QUIXOTE  DE  LA  MANCHA 


S55 


“Avaunt,  ye  scoundrels,  all  and  some! 

I’m  kept  for  no  such  thing  : 

Defile  me  not ; but  hang  yourselves  ; 

And  so,  God  save  the  king. 

‘For  me  alone  was  the  great  Quixote  born,  and  I alone  for  him.  Deeds  were  his  task, 
and  to  record  them  mine.’  We  two,  like  tallies  for  each -other  struck,  are  nothing  when  apart. 
In  vain  the  spurious  scribe  of  Tordesillas  dared,  with  his  blunt  and  bungling  ostrich-quill, 
invade  the  deeds  of  my  most  valorous  knight  : his  shoulders  are  unequal  to  the  attempt ; the 
task  is  superior  to  his  frozen  genius. 

“ And  thou,  reader,  if  ever  thou  canst  find  him  out  in  his  obscurity,  I beseech  thee  advise 
him  likewise  to  let  the  wearied  bones  of  Don  Quixote  rest  quiet  in  the  earth  that  covers  them. 
Let  him  not  expose  them  in  Old  Castile  against  the  sanctions  of  death,  impiously  raking  him 
out  of  the  vault  where  he  really  lies  stretched  out  beyond  a possibility  of  taking  a third 
ramble  through  the  world.  The  two  sallies  that  he  has  made  already  (which  are  the  subject 
of  this  volume,  and  have  met  with  such  universal  applause  in  this  and  other  kingdoms)  are 
sufficient  to  ridicule  the  pretended  adventures  of  knights -errant.  Thus  advising  him  for  the 
best,  thou  shalt  discharge  the  duty  of  a Christian,  and  do  good  to  him  that  wishes  thee  evil. 
As  for  me,  I must  esteem  myself  happy  to  have  been  the  first  that  rendered  those  fabulous 
nonsensical  stories  of  knight-errantry  the  object  of  the  public  aversion.  They  are  already 
going  down,  and  I do  not  doubt  but  they  will  drop  and  fall  all  together  in  good  earnest, 
never  to  rise  again.  Adieu.” 


Printed  by 

Cassell  & Company,  Limited,  La  Belle  Sauvage, 
London,  E.C. 


Id. 

2d. 

3d. 


4d. 


6d. 


A Classified  Catalogue 

OF 

CASSELL  & COMPANY’S  PUBLICATIONS, 


Cassell's  Pocket  Gardener. 

Cassell's  New  Poetry  Readers.  Illustrated.  12  Books.  Each. 
(See  also  is.  fed.) 

Cassell's  Poetry  for  Recitation.  (Suitable  for  Schools.) 


Scholars'  Companion  to  Tilings  New  and  Old. 

Books.  Each. 


Five 


Cassell's  New  Standard  Drawing  Copies.  6 Books 
Each.  1 Also  at  3d.  and  4d. ) 

Cassell's  Modern  School  Copy  Books.  11  Books.  Each. 
Cassell's  Graduated  Copy  Books.  x8  Books.  Each. 

The  Polytechnic  Building  Construction  Plates.  A 

Series  ol  40  Drawings,  ijd.  each. 


Cassell's  Brush  Work  Series.  Series  I.— wild  Flowers. 
Senes  II.— PICTURES  WANTING  WORDS.  Series  III.— ENTER- 
TAINING PICTURES.  3d.  per  set,  each  containing  12  Sheets.  Each 
Sheet  includes  a Set  of  Six  Water  Colours. 

Cassell's  “Belle  Sauvage " Readers,  An  entirely  New 
Series  Fully  Illustrated.  Strongly  bound  in  Cloth.  From  3d.  to 
is.  6d.  each. 

CASSELL’S  NATIONAL  LIBRARY.  Paper  covers,  3d. 

each;  cloth,  fed.  ( A full  List  of  the  213  Volumes  free  on  application.) 

Cassell’s  Readable  Readers.  Illustrated  and  strongly  bound. 
Two  Infant  Readers  at  2)4d.  and  3d.,  and  Six  Books  for  the  Stan- 
dards, in  very  still  cloth  boards,  at  7d.  to  is.  3d.  (List  on  application.) 

Cassell’s  Standard  Drawing  Copies.  6 Books.  Each. 
i See  also  2d  and  4d.  1 

Cobden  Club  Pamphlets.  (List  on  application.) 

“ Building  World " Coloured  Plates.  Each.  (Also  in 
Secs  of  6,  is.  Post  free,  is.  i£d.) 

“Work"  Coloured  Plates.  Each.  (Also  in  Sets  0/ 6,  is. 
Post  free,  is.  1 id.) 


Cassell's  “ Byes  and  No  Eyes  " Series.  ByArabella  Buckley. 

With  numerous  Illustrations  and  Coloured  Plates.  Books  I.  and  II. 
Lathe  Construction.  By  Paul  N.  Hasluck.  24  Plates.  Each,  or 
per  set,  6s 

Notes  and  Illustrations  of  the  Essentials  of  House 
Sanitation.  By  Edward  F.  Willoughby,  M.D.,  D.P.H. 

The  Wild  Flowers  Collecting-Book.  (Complete  m 6 Parts.) 
Each. 

The  Wild  Flowers  Painting  Book.  (Complete  in  6 Parts.) 
Each. 

Cassell’s  Standard  Drawing  Copies.  2 Books.  Each. 
(See  also  2d.  and  3d.) 

The  Modern  School  Readers.  Four  Infant  Readers  at  3d. 
to  sd.,  and  Six  Books  for  the  Standards  at  7d.  to  is.  6d.  (A  List  on 
application.) 

The  Modern  Reading  Sheets.  In  Three  Series,  each  con- 
taining Twelve  Sheets,  2s.  each.  (See  also  5s.) 

Readers  for  Infant  Schools,  Coloured.  3 Books.  Each 
containing  48  pages,  including  8 pages  in  Colours.  Each. 


EDUCATIONAL. 

Greek  Heroes.  Supplementary  Reader.  (Also  cloth,  is.) 

Swiss  Family  Robinson.  T In  words  of  one  syllable.^  New 

JEsop's  Fables. 


Pictorial  Readers  for  the 
. Young.  Each. 

Cassell's  “ Eyes  and  No  Eyes  " Series.  ByArabella  Buckley 
With  numerous  Illustrations  and  Coloured  Plates.  Books  III.,  IV.  V. 
and  VI.  ’’  ’* 

The  Coming  of  the  Kilogram.  By  H.  0.  Arnold-Forster,  M.  A. 
A Practical  Method  of  Teaching  Geography.  By  j h 
Overton,  F.G.S.  Book  I.— England  and  Wales,  in  Two  Separate  Parts. 
Vol.  II.— Europe.  Each.  (Tracing  Book,  containing  22  leaves,  2d.) 
Shakespeare’s  Plays  for  School  Use.  Cloth.  Each. 
Henry  V.  Hamlet.  Julius  Caesar.  Coriolanus.  Richard  II 
King  John.  Merchant  of  Venice.  Henry  VIII. 

Euclid,  Cassell's  First  Four  Books  of.  Paper,  6d.  (Cloth.  <jd  ) 
How  to  Draw  Elementary  Forms,  Models,  &c. 
Spelling,  Morell's  Complete  Manual  of.  Cheap  Edition 
PEOPLE'S  EDITIONS  OF  POPULAR  NOVELS. 
Black  Arrow 
The  Master  of  J 

Treasvue^aild.  f Peoples  Edition.  C cBy  Stevenson. 

Kidnaped  ) f (5“ also  3s*  6d- and  6s.) 

Catriona.  J J 

The  Wrecker.  By  R.  L.  Stevenson  and  Lloyd  Osbourne. 

The  Man  in  Black.  By  Stanley  Weyman.  (See  also  3s.  6d.) 
Dead  Man’s  Rock.  f By  A.  T.  Quiller-Couch.  People's  Edi- 
The  Splendid  Spur.  / turn.  (. See  also  3s.  6d.) 

KIqe  Solomon's  Mines.  By  H.  Rider  Haggard.  People' s Edition. 

Illustrated.  (See  also  3s.  6d.) 

Father  Stafford.  By  Anthony  Hope. 

The  Sea  Wolves.  i (See  also  3s.  fed.) 

The  Iron  Pirate. 

Impregnable  City.  / B>’  Ma*  Pemberton. 

At  Britain's  Call.  By  S.  Walkey. 

Adam  Hepburn’s  Vow.  By  Annie  S.  Swan.  (See  also  2s.  6d.) 

Out  Of  the  Jaws  Of  Death.  By  Frank  Barrett. 

The  Hispaniola  Plate.  By  J.  Bloundelle- Burton. 

•*#  Complete  List  on  Application. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Little  Folks  Plays. 

Cinderella.  By  Miranda  Hill. 

Rumpelstiltzkin  and  Dummling.  By  Miranda  Hill. 
How  to  Get  up  a Children’s  Play.  By  Maggie 
Browne.  Each  net. 

The  Little  Huguenot.  By  Max  Pemberton.  Net. 

The  National  Gallery  Catalogue.  With  upwards  of  100 
Illustrations.  Net. 

Shall  We  Know  One  Another  in  Heaven?  By  the  Rt. 

Rev.  J.  C.  Ryle,  M.A. 

The  Catalogue  ol  the  National  Gallery  of  British 
Art.  (The  Tate  Gallery.)  Profusely  Illustrated.  Net. 
Cassell's  Guide  to  Paris.  Illustrated.  ( Also  cloth,  is.) 
Cassell's  Guide  to  London.  Illustrated.  (Also  cloth,  xs.) 


War  Office,  The.  The  Army  and  the  Empire.  By 

H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A. 

Cobden  Club  Pamphlets.  (List  on  application.) 

Letts's  Diaries.  i6d  to  16s.) 

In  a Conning  Tower;  or,  How  I Took  H.M.S. 

“Majestic"  into  Action.  By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster  vi  A. 

• With  Original  Illustrations  by  W.  H.  Overend.  Cheap  Edition.  (Also 

cloth,  is.) 

Cassell’s  “High  School"  Readers.  Illustrated  and 

strongly  bound.  Six  books  at  7d.  to  is.  3d. 


Cassell’s  Modern  Geographical  Readers.  From 

to  is.  8d. 

Cassell’s  Union  Jack  Readers.  Six  Books.  From  8d. 


ILLUSTRATED  BOOKS  FOR  THE  LITTLE  ONES. 

Containing  interesting  Stories,  with  Full-page  Illustrations. 

Bright  Tales  and  Funny  


Pictures. 

Merry  Little  Tales. 

Little  Tales  for  Little 
People. 

Tales  Told  for  Sunday. 

Sunday  Stories  for  Small 
People.  [Sunday. 

Stories  and  Pictures  for 

Bible  Pictures  for  Boys 
and  Girls. 

Firelight  Stories. 

The  Cuckoo  in  the  Robin’s 
Nest. 

Cassell’s  New  Geographical  Readers.  With  Numerous 
Illustrations  in  each  Book.  From  9d.  to  is.  9d.  each. 

Things  New  and  Old ; or,  Stories  from  English  His- 
tory. By  H .O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A.  Illustrated.  Cloth  Seven 
Books,  from  gd.  to  is.  8d.  each. 


The  Giant’a  Gi  aul 
Sunlight  and  Shade. 
Rub-a-dub  Tales. 

Fine  Feathers  and  Fluffy 
Fur. 

Scrambles  and  Scrapes. 
Tittle  Tattle  Tales. 

Up  and  Down  the  Garden. 
Ail  Sorts  of  Adventures. 
Our  Schoolday  Hours. 
Creatures  Tame. 

Creatures  Wild. 

Those  Golden  Sands. 


THE  WORLD’S  WORKERS. 


John  Cassell. 

Richard  Cobden. 

Charles  Haddon  Spurgeon. 


General  Gordon. 

David  Livingstone. 

The  Earl  of  Shaftesbury. 
Dr.  Guthrie,  Father  Mathew, 
Elihu  Burritt,  J osepn 


Livese; 

George 

Reed. 


’Siaui 


er  and  Andrew 


Sir  Titus  Salt  and  George 
Moore. 

George  and  Robert  Stephen- 
son. 

Charles  Dickens. 

Handel. 

Turner  the  Artist. 

Sarah  Robinson,  Agnes 
Weston,  & Mrs.  Meredith. 
Mary  Carpenter  and  Mrs. 
Somerville. 


*,*  The  above  works  can  also  be  had  Three  in  One  Vol.,  cloth , 31- 
SHILLING  STORV  BOOKS.  _A11  Illustrated,  cloth  gilt. 
In  the  Days  oi  King  George, 


The  Heiress  of  Wyvei  nCourt. 
Little  Queen  Mab. 

Their  Road  to  Fortune. 

Won  by  Gentleness. 


Rlioda’s  Reward. 

Frank’s  Life  Battle. 

A Pair  of  Primroses. 

Ella’s  Golden  Year. 

EDUCATIONAL. 

“ Work  ” Handbooks.  A Series  of  Illustrated  Practical  Manuals 
prepared  under  the  direction  of  Paul  N.  Hasluck,  Editor  of 
“ Work?  Each. 

Decorative  Designs  of  All 


'eeorative  Designs  01  ah 
Ages  and  for  All  Purposes. 

House  Decoration. 

Boot-Making  and  Mending. 

How  to  Write  Signs,  Tickets, 
and  Posters. 

Wood  Finishing. 

Dynamos  and  Electric  Mo- 
tors, How  to  Make  and  Run 
Them. 

Cycle  Building  and  Repair- 
ing. 

Mounting  and  Framing 
Pictures. 

Smiths’  Work. 


Glass  Working. 

Building  Model  Boats. 
Electric  Bells,  How  to  Make 
and  Fit  Them. 

Bamboo  Work. 

Taxidermy. 

Tailoring. 

Photographic  Cameras  and 
Accessories. 

Optical  Lanterns. 

Engraving  Metals 
Basket  Work. 

Bookbindu  g. 

Bent  Ironwork 
Photography. 


Latin  Primer,  The  First.  By  Prof.  Postgate,  M.A. 
Howard's  Art  of  Reckoning.  (Also  at  2s.  and  5s.) 

Euclid,  Cassell's.  First  Six  Books,  with  the  nth  and  12th  of  Euclid. 
German  Reading,  First  Lessons  in.  By  a.  Jagst. 
Polytechnic  Technical  Scales.  Set  of  10  in  cloth  case. 

CASSELL’S  STANDARD  LIBRARY. 

Each  net. 


Adam  Bede.  By  George  Eliot. 

Westward  Ho!  By  Charles 
Kingsley. 

The  Old  Curiosity  Shop.  By 
Charles  Dickens. 

Ivanhoe.  By  Sir  Walter  Scott. 

The  Last  Days  of  Pompeii. 

By  Lord  Lytton. 

Pride  and  Prejudice.  By 
Jane  Austen. 

The  Last  of  the  Mohicans. 

By  Fenimore  Cooper. 

%*  Complete  List  on  Application. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Pictorial  Practical  Bulb  Growing.  Bv 

Pictorial  Practical  Gardening  I w P \Vri_h. 

Pictorial  Practical  Vegetable  Growing.  I niu'rrrtted 
Pictorial  Practical  Rose  Growing.  j t/tu0  cloth. 

Practical  Greenhouse  Management.  I iS  6d  ) 
Pictorial  Practical  Fruit  Growing.  J *' 


American  Humour.  Selected. 
Jane  Eyre.  By  Charlotte 
Bronte. 

Handy  Andy.  By  Samuel 
Lover. 

Uncle  Tom’s  Cabin.  By  Har- 
riet Beecher  Stowe. 

The  Prince  of  the  House  of 
David.  By  the  Rev.  J.  H. 
Ingraham. 


6d. 


7d. 


8d. 


9d. 


1/- 


Cassell  dc  Company , Limited,  Ludgate  Hill,  London ; Paris,  New  York  ana  Melbourne,  l6$  G.-  I2-°3 


2 


Cassell  Sf  Company’s  Classified  Price  List. 


1/- 

confd. 


1/3 

1/4 


Alfred  Shaw,  Cricketer  s His  Career  and  Reminis, 

caacds.  By  A.  W.  Pullin.  With  a Statistical  Chapter  by  A.  J. 
Gaston.  Cheap  Edition 

Profitable  Homs  Farming.  By  *’Yeoma».k  (Also 

cloth,  is  6d.) 

Tlie  Wallace  Collection  at  Hertford  House.  By  M.  H. 

Spielm  mn.  Illu;  tratcil. 

Spending  and  Saving.  By  Alfred  Pinhorn. 

Cassell’s  Guide  to  Paris,  Illustrated. 

Cassell’s  Guide  to  London.  With  Plans  and  Woodauts. 
Cassell’s  Pictorial  Guide  to  tbe  Clyde.  With  Coloured 
Plate  and  Maps. 

The  Governor  s Guide  to  Windsor  Castle.  By  The  Duke 

of  Argyll.  Profusely  Illustrated.  Limp  cloth.  ( Also  in  cloth  boards, 
gilt  edges,  as.) 

Cassell’s  Guide  to  Employment  in  the  Civil  Service. 

Revised  Edit  ion.  Paper.  (Also  tn  cloth,  is.  6d.) 

Encyclopaedia  o:  the  Game  of  Whist.  By  Sir  William 

Cusack-Smith,  Bart. 

Dainty  Breakfasts,  The  Dictionary  of.  By  Phyllis 

Browne. 

Incubators  and  Chicken  Rearing  Appliances.  Howto 

Make  and  Use  Them.  Illustrated. 

The  Passing  of  the  Dragon.  By  F.  Jay  Ceagh. 

Clear  Waters.  By  Rev.  F.  Langbridge,  M.  A.  Illustrated.  Net. 
John  Drummond  Fraser.  By  "Philalethes.”  A Story  of  Jesuit 
Intrigue  in  the  Church  of  England.  Cheap  Edition. 

Life  Assurance  Explained.  By  William  Schooling,  F.R.S. 

< A -so  tn  doth,  2s.  6d.) 

Miniature  Cyclopaedia,  Cassell’s.  Containing  30,000  Subjects. 

Cloth.  Cheap  Edition,  limp  cloth.  (A Iso  doth  gilt,  is.  6d.) 
Cookery  for  Common  Ailments.  Cheap  Edition,  limp  cloth. 
Vegetarian  Cookery.  By  A.  G.  Payne,  cheap  Edition. 
Cookery,  Cassell’s  Shilling. 

Choice  Dishes  at  Small  Cost.  By  A.  G.  Payne. 

A Year’s  Cookery.  By  Phyllis  Browne.  Cheap  Edition , limp  cloth. 

(Also  in  bevelled  cloth  boards,  gilt  lettered,  2s.) 

Notable  Shipwrecks.  Cheap  Edition.  Revised  and  Enlarged. 
Limp  cloth. 

Cassell’s  Approved  Metric  Charts.  Two  Coloured  Sheets, 
42  in.  by  224  in.,  illustrating  by  Designs  and  Explanations  the  Metric 
System.  Each.  (Also  mounted  -with  rollers , 3s.  each  ; or  the  two 
on  one  sheet  ivith  rollers,  5s.) 

Popular  Control  of  the  Liquor  Traffic.  By  Dr.  E.  R.  L. 

Gould.  With  an  Introduction  by  the  Rt.  Hon.  I.  Chamberlain.  M.P. 
Beneath  the  Banner  : Being  Narratives  of  Noble 
Lives  and  Brave  Deeds.  By  F.  J.  Cross.  Illus.  New  and 
Enlarged  Edition.  Cloth  limp.  (Also  cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges,  2s.) 
Good  Morning  S Good  Night  I Morning  and  Evening  Readings 
for  Children.  By  F.  J.  Cross.  Illustrated.  Limp  cloth.  (Also  cloth 
boards.  2S.) 

The  Letters  of  “Vetus”  on  the  Administration  of 
the  War  Office. 

In  a Conning  Tower.  By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A.  (See also 6d.) 

Aa  Address  in  School  Hygiene.  By  Clement  Dukes,  M.D. 
Bits  and  Bearing-Reins,  and  Horses  and  Harness. 

By  E.  F.  Flower. 

The  Old  Fairy  Tales.  With  Illustrations.  Cloth. 

Lawful  Wedlock;  or,  How  Shall  I Make  Sure  of  a 
Legal  Marriage?  By  Two  Barristers. 

Our  Sick  and  How  to  Take  Care  of  Them;  or,  Plain 

1 eaching  on  Sick  Nursing  at  Home.  By  Florence  Stacpoole.  (Also 
in  cloth,  is.  6d.  1 

Our  Home  Army.  By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A. 

Th*  Sugar  Convention.  By  the  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Farrer. 
Etiquette  of  Good  Society.  New  Edition.  Edited  and  Re- 
vised by  Lady  Colin  Campbell.  (Also  in  cloth,  is.  6d.) 


BY  EDWARD  S. 

Bear  Cavern. 

Astray  in  the  Forest. 
Captured  by  Indians. 

Wolf  Ear  the  Indian. 

Red  Feather. 


ELLZS.  Illustrated. 

The  Daughter  of  the  Chief- 
tain. 

The  Boy  Hunters  of  Ken- 
tucky. 


ILLUSTRATED  OFFICIAL  RAILWAY  GUIDES. 

In  Paper.  (Also  m cloth,  is.  6d.) 

London  and  North  Western  (New  Edition). — Great  Western.— 
Midland  (New  Edition). — Great  Northern.— Great  Eastern 
(New  Edition). — London  and  South  Western  (New  Edition). 
—London,  Brighton  and  South  Coast  (New  Edition).— South 
Eastern  and  Chatham  Railway  (New  Edition).  (See  also  3d.) 

RELIGIOUS. 


“HEART  CHORDS, 

My  Work  lor  God 
My  Emotional  Liie. 

My  Growth  in  Divine  Life. 
My  Hereafter. 

M.y  Walk  with  God. 


Bound  m cloth,  red  edges.  Each. 

My  Aids  to  the  Divine  Life. 
My  Sources  of  Strength. 
My  Father. 

My  Bible. 

My  Comfort  in  Sorrow. 


HELPS  TO  BELIEF.  Edited  by  Canon  Teignmouth-Shore 
M.A. 

Miracles.  By  the  Rev.  Brownlow  Maitland,  M.A. 

The  Atonement.  By  William  Connor  Magee,  D.D.,  late  Arch- 
bishop of  York. 


Sermons  Preached  in  Memory  of  the  Rt.  Hon  W.  E. 

Gladstone  in  Hawarden  Parish,  May  22,  1898. 
Shortened  Church  Services  and  Hymns. 


King  Solomon’s  Mines.  Abridged  edition  for  schools. 
Robinson  Crusoe  Abridged  edition  for  schools. 

Fairy  Tales  Old  and  New.  Re-told  by  “ Q"  (A.  T.  Quiller- 

Couch  . 


British  Museum,  The  Bible  Student  in  the.  By  the 

Rev.  J.  G.  Kitchin,  M.A.  New  arid  Revisea  Edition. 

Tiny  Tots.  A magazine  for  the  Very  Little  Ones.  Set  in  Bold  Type 
and  Profusely  Illustrated.  Annual  Volume.  (Also  is.  6d.) 


Quackles,  Junior : Being  the  Adventures  of  a 
Wonderful  Duckling.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  4 Coloured 

Plates  (Also  cloth,  2s.) 

The  Foolish  Fox,  and  Other  Tales  in  Prose  and 

Verse.  Edited  by  S.  II.  Hamer.  With  4 Coloured  Plates  and 
numerous  Illustrations.  (Also  doth,  ar.) 

Peter  Piper’s  Peepshow.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  4 Coloured 
Plates  and  other  Illustrations  by  H.  B.  Neilson  and  Lewis  Baumer. 
The  Jungle  School.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  4 Coloured  Plates 
and  other  Illustrations  by  11.  B.  Neilson. 

Animal  Land  for  Little  People.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  Illus- 
trated. 

Master  Charlie.  By  C.  S.  Harrison  and  S.  H.  Hamer.  Illus- 
trated. Coloured  boards. 

Micky  Magee’s  Menagerie  ; or,  Strange  Animals 
and  their  Doings.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  8 Coloured  Plates 
and  other  Illustrations  by  Harry  B.  Neilson. 

The  Ten  Travellers.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  Four  Coloured 
Plates  and  numerous  Illustrations  by  Harry  B.  Neilson. 

Birds,  Beasts,  and  Fishes.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  Four 
Coloured  Plates  and  numerous  Illustrations. 

The  Little  Huguenot.  By  Max  Pemberton.  New  Edition. 
Guide  to  Employment  for  Boys  on  leaving  School. 
By  W.  S.  Beard.  F.R.G.S. 

Twilight  of  Life,  The.  Words  of  Counsel  and  Com- 
fort for  the  Aged.  By  John  Ellerton,  M.A. 

Laws  of  Every-Day  Life.  By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A. 
The  Making  of  the  Home.  By  Mrs.  S.  A.  Barnett. 

Nursing  for  the  Home  and  for  the  Hospital,  A 
Handbook  of.  By  C.  J.  Wood.  (Also  in  cloth,  as.) 
Wonderful  Balloon  Ascents. 


EDUCATIONAL. 

French,  Cassell’s  Lessons  in.  New  and  Revised  Edition. 

In  Two  Parts.  Each.  (Also  in  One  Vol.,  as.  6d.) 

Cassell’s  Lessons  in  French,  Key  to. 

The  Master  of  Ballantrae.  By  R.  L.  Stevenson.  With  In- 
troduction, Notes,  and  Glossary  by  Thos.  Cartwright,  B.A. 

The  Troubadour.  Selections  from  English  Verse.  Edited  and 
Annotated  by  Philip  Gibbs. 

Object  Lessons  from  Nature,  for  the  Use  of  Schools.  By  Prof. 

L.  C.  MialL  Illustrated.  New  and  enlarged  Edition.  Two  Vols.  Each. 
Cassell’s  Poetry  for  Recitation.  Illustrated.  12  Books  in 
One  VoL,  cloth.  (See  also  id. ) 

Engineering  Workshop  Practice,  Forty  Lessons  in. 
Elementary  Chemistry  for  Science  Schools  and 
Classes. 

Citizen  Reader.  By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A.  Cloth.  ( Also  a 

Scottish  Edition,  cloth,  is.  6d.) 

Round  the  Empire.  By  G.  R.  Parkin.  With  a Preface  by  the 
Harlot  Rosebery,  K.G.  Fully  Illustrated. 

Magna  Carta.  A Facsimile  of  the  Original  Document,  mounted  on 
cardboard,  with  a translation. 

Temperance  Reader,  The.  By  J.  Dennis  Hird. 

Little  Folks’  History  of  England.  By  Isa  Craig-Knox. 

With  30  Illustrations.  Cloth. 

Principles  of  Perspective  as  Applied  to  Model 
Drawing  and  Sketching  from  Nature,  The.  By 

George  Trobridge.  (Cloth,  as.  6d.) 

Cassell’s  Popular  Atlas.  Containing  24  Coloured  Maps. 

The  World’s  Lumber  Room.  By  Selina  Gaye. 

Cassell’s  “ Wild  Flowers  ” Sheets.  Each  Sheet  is  mounted 
on  board  with  cord  suspender,  and  contains  ten  examples,  beautifully 
reproduced  in  colours,  of  familiar  wild  flowers.  12  sheets.  Each. 


BIBLE  BIOGRAPHIES.  Illustrated. 

The  Story  of  Joseph.  By  the  Rev.  George  Bainton. 

The  Story  of  Moses  and  Joshua.  By  the  Rev.  J.  Telfoid. 
The  Story  of  Judges.  By  the  Rev.  J.  Wycliffe  Gcdge. 

The  Story  of  Samuel  and  SauL  By  the  Rev.  D.  C.  Tovey. 
The  Story  of  David.  By  the  Rev.  J.  Wild. 

The  Story  of  Jesus.  In  Verse.  By  J.  R.  Macduff,  D.D. 


THE  WORLD  IN  PICTURES. 

Handsomely  Illustrated,  and  elegantly  bound. 

All  the  Russias.  I Peeps  into  China. 

Glimpses  of  South  Amerioa.  The  Isles  of  the  Pacific. 
Chats  about  Germany. 


EIGHTEENPENNY  STORY  BOOKS. 


All  Illustrated  throughout,  and  bound  in  cloth  gilt. 


Bear  and  Forbear. 

Honour  is  my  Guide. 

Aim  at  a Sure  End. 

On  Board  the  “Esmeralda.” 
Clare  Linton’s  Friend. 


Her  Wilful  Way. 

To  School  and  Away. 

All  in  a Castle  Fair. 

The  Bravest  of  the  Brave. 
Dolly’s  Golden  Slippers. 


Founders  of  the  Empire.  A Biographical  Reading  Book  for 
buiool  and  Home.  By  Philip  Gibbs.  Illustrated.  (See  also  as.  6d.) 

In  Danger’s  Hour:  or,  Stout  Hearts  and  Stirring 
Leeds.  A Book  of  Adventures  for  School  and  Home.  With 
Coloured  Plates  and  other  Illustrations.  (Also  at  2s.  6d.) 

Cassell’s  Classical  Readers.  Vol.  I.  (Also  Vol.  J].,  as.  6d.) 


1/6 

cont'd. 


1/6 


Naticnal  Library  Edition  of  Shakespeare’s  Plays. 

37  Vois.  Bound  in  leather.  Net  each. 

The  Sick  and  Wounded  in  South  Africa.  By  Mr. 

Burdett-Cnut's.  M.P. 

Topsy  Turvy  Tales.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  4 Coloured  Plates 
and  other  Illustrations  by  Harry  B.  Neilson. 


Our  Great  City  ; or,  London  the  Heart  of  the  Empire. 

By  H.  O.  Arnold- Forster,  M.A.  Profusely  Illustrated.  (Also  2s.  6d.) 

Physiology  for  Schools.  By  Alfred  T.  Schofield,  M.D. 
M.R.C.S.,  &c.  Illustrated.  Cloth.  (Also  in  1 hr ee  Parts,  paper 
lovers,  5d.  each;  or  doth  limp,  6d.  each.) 


1/9 


Cassell  <£-  Company,  Limited,  Ludgate  Hill,  London  ; Paris,  Hew  York  and  Melbourne. 


Cassell  Sf  Company's  Classified  Price  List. 


3 


EDUCATIONAL, 

French  Lessons  in  French.  By  F.  P.  de  Champtassin. 

Hand  and  Eye  Training.  By  G.  Ricks,  B.Sc.,  and  J.  Vaughan. 
Illustrated.  Vol.  II.,  Designing  in  Cardboard.  (Vol.  III.  Colour 
Work  and  Design,  3s.) 

Historical  Cartoons,  Cassell’s  Coloured.  (Size  45  in. 

X 35  in.)  Six.  Each.  (See  also  id.  and  5s.) 

Practical  Solid  Geometry,  A Manual  of.  By  William 
Gordon  Ross,  Major  R.E. 

Alphabet,  Cassell’s  Pictorial,  and  Object  Lesson 
Sheet  for  Infant  Schools.  (Also  at  2s.  6d.) 

Linear  Drawing.  By  E.  A.  Davidson. 

Orthographic  and  Isometrical  Projection. 

Building  Construction,  The  Elements  of. 

Systematic  Drawing  and  Shading.  By  Charles  Ryan. 
Jones’s  Book-keeping.  By  Theodore  Jones.  For  Schools,  2s.  ; 

for  the  Million,  2s.  (Also  m cloth,  3s.)  Ruled  Books,  2«, 

Reading  Sheets,  Modern.  3 Series.  Each.  (Also  on  linen, -with 
rollers,  5s.  each.) 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Kidnapped.  By  R.  L.  Stevenson.  Pocket  Edition.  Cloth.  Net. 
( See  also  3s.) 

Catriona.  By  R.  L.  Stevenson.  Pocket  Edition.  Cloth.  Net. 
(See  also  3s.) 

Special  Pocket  Editions  of  Ellicott’s  Commentaries. 

On  thin  paper,  each.  ST.  MATTHEW,  ST.  Mark,  ST.  LUKE, 
St.  John,  The  acts,  Romans,  Corinthians,  Galatians, 
Colo-sians,  &c. , Peter,  &c.,  Titus,  &c.,  revelation. 

The  Elements  of  Modern  Dressmaking.  By  Jeanette 
E.  Davis.  New  and  Revised  Edition. 

Advice  to  Women  on  the  Care  of  their  Health,  By 

Florence  Stacpoole.  New  and  E7ilarged  Edition. 

Technical  Instruction.  Edited  by  Paul  N.  Hasluck.  Practical 
Staircase  Joinery.  Practical  Metal  Work.  Practical  Gas  Fitting. 
Practical  Draughtsmen’s  Work.  Practical  Plumber’s  Work.  Each. 
The  London  Health  Laws.  Prepared  by  the  Mansion  House 
Council  on  the  Dwellings  of  the  Poor. 

Gas,  The  Art  of  Cooking  by.  By  Marie  Jenny  Sugg.  Illustrated. 
How  Dante  Climbed  the  Mountain.  By  R.  E.Selfe.  Illustrated. 
With  Dante  in  Paradise.  By  R.  E.  Selfe.  Illustrated. 
Cassell’s  Book  of  In-door  Amusements,  Card 
Games,  and  Fireside  Fun.  Illustrated. 

The  North-West  Passage  by  Land.  By  Lord  Milton  and 
Dr.  Cheadle.  Cheap  Edition. 

Little  Folks’  Sunday  Book. 


TWO-SHILLING  STORY  BOOKS. 

Illustrated.  Crown  8vo,  handsomely  bound  in  cloth  gilt. 


Adam  Hepburn’s  Vow.  A 
Tale  of  Kirk  and  Covenant. 
The  Lost  VestaL 
Fairway  Island. 

Fluffy  and  Jaok. 

The  Mystery  of  Master  Max. 
Uncle  Silvio’s  Secret. 

Wrong  from  the  First. 
Daisy’s  Dilemmas. 

A Self-willed  Family. 
Chieftain  and  'j  By 
Scout.  J-  Edward 

Blazing  Arrow.  J S.  Ellis. 


Klondike  Nuggets.' 

The  Path  in  the 
Ravine. 

The  Young  Han- 
dlers. 

Ned  in  the  Woods. 

Ned  on  the  River. 

Ned  in  the  Block 
House. 

The  Rubber  Hun- 
ters. 

Tad. 

Lost  in  Samoa.  1 


By 

Edward 
S.  Ellis. 


BOOKS  BY  EDWARD  S.  ELLIS.  Illustrated. 


Iron  Heart:  War  Chief  of 
the  Iroquois. 

Red  Jaoket : The  Last  of  the 
Senecas. 

In  Red  Indian  Trails. 
Unorowning  a King. 

Two  Boys  in  Wyoming. 
Soouts  and  Comrades,  or 
Teoumseh,  Chief  of  the 
Shawanoes. 

Cowmen  aud  Rustlers. 
Pontiac,  Chief  of  the  Ot- 
tawas.  A Tale  of  the  Siege 
of  Detroit. 


A Strange  Craft  and  its 
Wonderful  Voyage. 

In  the  Days  of  the  Pioneers. 
Shod  with  Silence. 

The  Phantom  of  the  River. 
The  Great  Cattle  Trail. 

The  Hunters  of  the  Ozark. 
The  Camp  in  the  Mountains. 
The  Last  War  Trail. 

The  Lost  Trail. 

Camp-Fire  and  Wigwam. 
Footprints  in  the  Forest. 
Down  the  Mississippi. 

Lost  in  the  Wilds. 


CASSELL’S  MINIATURE  POETS. 

Two  Volumes  in  one,  cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges. 
Milton.  Goldsmith,  Sheridan. 


u WANTED— A KING”  SERIES. 

Cheap  Edition.  Illustrated. 

Two  Old  Ladies,  Two  Foolish  Fairies,  and  a Tom  Cat.  By 
Maggie  Browne. 

Fairy  Tales  m Other  Lands.  By  Julia  Goddard. 

Wanted— a King;  or.  How  Merle  set  tho  Nursery  Rhymes 
to  Rights.  By  Maggie  Browne. 


HALF-CROWN  GIFT  BOOKS, 
POPULAR  VOLUMES  FOR  YOUNG  PEOPLE. 

Tom  and  Some  Other  Girls.  By  Jessie  Mansergh. 

Mrs.  Pederson’s  Niece.  By  Isabel  Suart  Robson. 

Sisters  Three.  A Story  for  Girls.  By  Jessie  Mansergh  (Mrs.  G.  de 
Horne  Vaizey).  Illustrated. 

A Girl  Without  Ambition.  By  Isabel  Suart  Robson.  Illustrated. 

“Little  Folks  Song  Book,”  With  4 Coloured  Plates. 

Whys  and  other  Whys;  or.  Curious  Creatures  and 
their  Tales.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  Illustrations  by  Harry  B. 
Neilson.  (At so  Cloth,  3s.  6d.) 

The  Queen’s  Scarlet.  By  George  Manville  Fenn. 

An  Old  Boy’s  Yarns;  or,  School  Tales  for  Past  and 
Present  Boys.  Illustrated  by  Harold  Avery. 

Told  Out  of  School;  or,  Humorous  Yarns  of  School 
Life  and  Boyhood.  By  A.  J.  Daniels.  Illustrated. 

To  Punish  the  Czar : A Story  of  the  Crimea.  By 
Horace  Hutchinson.  Illustrated. 

Lost  Among  White  Africans.  A Boy’s  Adventures  on  the 
Upper  Congo.  By  David  Ker.  Illustrated. 

The  White  House  at  Inch  Gow.  By  Sarah  Pitt.  Illustrated. 
The  Master  of  the  Strong  Hearts.  A Story  of  Custer’s 
Last  Rally.  By  E.  S.  Brooks.  Illustrated. 

Pleasant  Work  for  Busy  Fingers ; or,  Kindergarten 
at  Home.  By  Maggie  Browne.  Illustrated. 

Little  Mother  Bunch.  By  Mrs.  Molesworth.  Illustrated. 
Pictures  of  School  Life  and  Boyhood.  Selected  from  the 
best  Authors.  Edited  by  Percy  Fitzgerald,  M.A. 

Heroes  of  Every-Day  Life,  By  Laura  Lane.  Illustrated. 
Heroes  of  the  Indian  Empire,  By  Ernest  Foster. 

At  the  South  Pole.  By  the  late  W.  H.  G.  Kingston. 

To  the  Death*  By  R.  D.  Chetwode. 

Cost  of  a Mistake.  By  Sarah  Pitt. 

Rogues  of  the  Fiery  Cross.  By  S.  Walkey.  Illustrated. 

Lost  on  Du  Corrig;  or,  ’Twist  Earth  and  Ocean. 

By  Standish  O’Grady.  With  8 full-page  Illustrations. 

With  Redskins  on  the  War  Path.  By  S.  Walkey. 

THE  “CROSS  AND  CROWN”  SERIES. 

With  Four  Illustrations  in  each  Book,  printed  on  a Tint. 

Through  Trial  to  Triumph.  I By  Fire  and  Sword : A Story 
Strong  to  Suffer.  I ot  the  Huguenots. 

Freedom’s  Sword:  A Story  of  the  Days  of  Wallace  and  Bruce. 

EDUCATIONAL. 

THE  EMPIRE  SERIES. 

India:  Our  Eastern  Empire.  By  Philip  Gibbs.  With  4 
Coloured  Plates  and  numerous  illustrations. 

Australasia : The  Britains  of  the  South.  By  Philip  Gibbs. 
With  4 Coloured  Plates  and  numerous  illustnti.ns. 

Our  Great  City ; or,  London  the  Heart  of  the  Empire, 
By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A. 

Founders  of  the  Empire.  By  Philip  Gibbs. 


The  Coming  of  the  Kilogram;  or,  the  Battle  of  the 
Standards.  By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A.  Illustrated.  (i>r6d.) 
Carpentry  and  Joinery  Workshop  Practice.  By  C. 

F.  and  G.  A.  Mitchell.  Il.ustrated. 

Farm  Crops.  By  Professor  Wrightson.  Illustrated. 

Sculpture,  A Primer  of.  By  E.  R.  Mullins. 

Numerical  Examples  in  Practical  Mechanics  and 
Machine  Design.  By  R.  G.  Blame,  M.E.  New  Edition, 
Revised  and  Enlarged.  With  79  Illustrations. 

Latin  Primer  (The  New).  By  Prof.  J.  P.  Postgate. 

Latin  Prose  for  Lower  Forms.  By  M.  A.  Bayfield,  M.A. 
Chemistry,  The  Public  School.  ByJ.  H.  Anderson,  M.A. 

Oil  Painting,  A Manual  of.  By  the  Hon.  John  Collier.  Cloth. 
French  Grammar,  Marlborough.  Arranged  and  Compiled 
by  Rev.  J.  F.  Bright,  M.A.  (See  " Exercises 3s.  6d.) 

Algebra,  Manual  of.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton.  Part  I. 
Cloth.  ( Complete , 7s.  6d.) 

Euclid.  Books  I.,  II.,  III.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton. 

Books  IV.,  V.,  VI.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton. 

Optics.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton.  Entirely  New  and  Enlarged 
Edition. 

“Model  Joint”  Wall  Sheets,  for  Instruction  in  Manual 
Training.  By  S.  Barter.  Eight  Sheets.  Each. 

This  World  of  Ours.  By  H.  O.  Arnold-Forster,  M.A.  Being 
Introductory  Lessons  to  the  Study  of  Geography.  Cheap  Edition. 

Scarlet  and  Blue ; or,  Songs  for  Soldiers  and  Sailors. 

By  John  Fanner.  (See  also  5s.) 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The  Child  “ Wonderful,”  A Story  Told  in  Six  Talks. 

Written  and  Illustrated  by  W.  S.  Stacey.  With  9 Coloured  Plates. 
The  Century  Science  Series.  Edited  by  Sir  Henry  E.  Roscoe, 
D.C.L.,  F.R.S.  Each.  (List  sent  on  application.) 

Sir  Robert  Peel,  By  Lord  Rosebery. 

Tbe  Penny  Magazine.  With  650  Illustrations.  In  Quarterly 
Volumes.  Each. 

A Book  of  Absurdities.  For  Children  of  from  Seven  Years  of 
Age  to  Seventy.  By  an  Old  Volunteer. 

Liquor  Legislation  in  the  United  States  and 
Canada.  By  E.  L.  Fanshawe,  of  the  Inner  Temple,  Barrister. 
Field  Naturalist’s  Handbook,  The.  By  the  Revs.  J.  G. 

and  Theodore  Wood.  L heap  Edition. 

The  Art  of  Making  and  Using  Sketches.  From  the 
French  of  G.  Fraipont.  By  Clara  Bell.  With  Fifty  Illustrations. 
National  Railways.  An  Argument  for  State  Purchase.  By 
James  Hole. 

Church  Reform  in  Spain  and  Portugal.  By  the  Rev 

H.  E.  Noyes,  D.D.  Illustrated. 


2/5 

cont’d. 


Cassell  <£■  Company , Limited,  Ludgatc  Hill,  London  ; Pat  is,  Ne~ai  York  and  Melbourne. 


4 


Cassell  8f  Company's  Classified  Price  List. 


2/6 

eonfd. 


The  England  of  Shakespeare.  By  E.  Goadby.  Illustrated. 

Unicode.  The  Universal  Telegraphic  Phrase  Book.  Desk  and  Pocket 
Editions.  Each. 


Bo-Peep.  A Treasury  for  the  Little  Ones.  Yearly 

Volume.  Boards.  (See  3s.  6d. ) 

Life  and  Work  of  Our  Redeemer.  By  Eminent  Divines. 
“ Quiver  **  Edition.  Net. 

The  Holy  Land  and  the  Bible.  By  the  Rev.  Cunningham 
Geikie.  D.L).  " Quiver"  Edition.  Abridged  by  the  Author.  Net. 


TECHNICAL  MANUALS  (Illustrated). 


3/- 


The  Elements  of  Practical 
Perspective. 

Model  Drawing. 

Drawiug  for  Stonemasons. 


Drawing  for  Cabinetmakers. 
Drawing  for  Bricklayers. 
Gothic  Stonework. 


Cassell’s  New  Coloured  Natural  History  Wall 

Sheets.  Consisting  of  16  Subjects.  Size— 39  by  31  in.  Mounted 
on  rollers  and  varnished.  Each. 


How  to  Draw  from  Models  and  Common  Objects. 

By  W.  E.  Sparkes.  With  45  Plates.  Cloth  gilt 

How  to  Shade  from  Models,  Common  Objects,  and 
Casts  of  Ornament.  A Practical  Manual.  By  W.  E.  Sparkes. 


Practical  Plane  and  Solid  Geometry,  including 
Graphic  Arithmetic.  Vol.  I.,  Elementary  Stage. 

Marlborough  Arithmetic  Examples. 

Tides  and  Tidal  Currents.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton. 

SCHOOL  COMMENTARIES.  Edited  by  Bishop  EUicott. 


Genesis.  (3s.  6d.) 
Exodus.  (3s.) 
Leviticus.  (3s.) 
Numbers.  (2s.  6d.) 
Deuteronomy,  (as.  6d.) 


St.  Matthew.  (3s.  6d.) 
St.  Mark.  (3s.) 

St.  Luke.  (3s.  6d.) 

8t.  John.  (3s.  6d.) 


The  Acts  of  the  Apostles. 

(3s.  6d.) 

Romans..  (2s.  6d.) 

Colossians,  Thessalonians, 
and  Timothy.  (3s.) 

Titus,  Philemon,  Hebrews, 
and  James  (3s.) 

Peter.  Jude,  and  John.  (3s.) 
The  Revelation.  (3s.) 

An  Introduction  to  the  New 
Testament.  (2s.  6d.) 


POCKET  EDITIONS. 
Kidnapped.  By  R.  L.  Stevenson.  Leather.  Net. 
Catriona.  By  R.  L.  Stevenson.  Leather.  Net. 

(See  also  2s.) 


THE  WORLD’S  WORKERS. 

New  and  Original  Volumes  by  Popular  Authors.  With  Portraits.  In 
Six  Vols.,  each  containing  3 works.  Cloth,  gilt  edges.  Each  Vol. 

***  Each  work  can  also  be  had  separately.  (See  is.) 


3/6 


EDUCATIONAL. 

Blackboard  Drawing.  By  W.  E.  Sparkes.  Illustrated. 

Cassell’s  English  Dictionary.  Giving  Definitions  of  more 
than  100,000  Words  and  Phrases.  Cheap  Edition. 


Technical  Educator,  Cassell’s.  An  entirely  New  Cyclo- 

gnedia  of  Technical  Education,  with  Coloured  Plates  and 
ngravings.  Complete  in  Six  Volumes.  Each. 

Drawing  for  Carpenters  and  Joiners.  By  E.  A 

Davidson.  With  253  Engravings. 

Cutting  Tools  Worked  by  Hand  and  Machine.  By 

Prof.  Smith. 

Handrailing  and  Staircasing.  By  Frank  0.  CresswelL 
Hydrostatics.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton.  Cloth. 
Mathematical  Tables.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton. 

Linear  Drawing  and  Projection.  Two  Vols.  in  One. 

German  Dictionary,  Cassell’s. 

German-English  and  English -German.  Cloth.  ( Also  in  half  morocco,  5s.  > 

Colour.  By  Prof.  A.  II.  Church.  New  and  Enlarged  Edition. 

English  Literature,  The  Story  of.  By  Anna  Buckland. 

German  Grammar,  The  Marlborough.  Compiled  and 
Arranged  by  the  Rev.  J.  F.  Bright,  M.A.  Cloth. 

French  Exercises,  Marlborough.  Bv  the  Rev.  G.  W.  De 
Lisle,  M.A.,  French  Master  in  Marlborough  College. 

French-English  and  English-French  Dictionary.  (Also 

tn  haij  ntorocio,  5s.) 

Cassell’s  Latin  Dictionary. 


THE  FIGUIER  SERIES. 

Cheap  Editions.  Illustrated  throughout 

Reptiles  and  Birds.  I The  World  before  the  Deluge. 
Tin-  Human  Race.  Mammalia. 

The  Ocean  World.  | The  Vegetable  World. 


CASSELL’S  POPULAR  LIBRARY  OF  FICTION. 

A Flame  of  Fire.  By  Joseph  Hocking. 

The  Little  Minister.  By  J.  M.  Barrie. 

Gladys  Fane.  By  Sir  Wemyss  Reid. 

Nat  Harlowe,  Mountebank.  By  George  R.  Sims. 

The  Refiner’s  Fire.  By  Mrs.  E Hockliffe. 

The  Splendid  Spur. 

Ia.  A Love  Story. 

Dead  Man’s  Rock. 


By  A.  T.  Quillcr-Couch.  Illustrated. 
(Also  People's  Edition,  6d.) 


By  Max  Pemberton. 
(Also  Peoples  Edition , 6d. 


. | By  E.  W. 


Hornung. 


The  Impregnable  City. 

The  Sea  Wolves. 

The  Iron  Pirate. 

The  Rogue's  March. 

Young  Blood. 

Some  Persons  Unknown. 

Tiny  Luttrell. 

My  Lord  Duke. 

The  Adventures  of  Captain  Horn. 

The  Vizier  of  the  Two-Horned  Alexander.  / n 

The  Girl  at  Cobliurst.  )-  _ . “7  , . 

Mrs.  Cliff’s  Yacht.  i Frank  Stockton. 

Pomona’s  Travels.  J 

Island  Nights  Entertainments.  By  R.  L.  Stevenson. 

Cupid’s  Garden.  By  Ellen  Thorneycroft  Fowler. 

Loveday.  By  E.  Wickham. 

Tuxter’s  Little  Maid.  By  G.  B.  Burgin. 

The  Hispaniola  Plate.  By  John  BIoundelle-Burton.  (Also 
People’s  Edition,  6d.) 

The  White  Shield.  By  Bertram  Mitford. 

The  Admirable  Lady  Biddy  Fane.  By  Frank  Barrett. 

List,  ye  Landsmen  ! A Romance  1 

of  Incident.  V By  W.  Clark  Russell. 

What  Cheer ! J 

The  Lights  of  Sydney.  By  Lilian  Turner. 

Playthings  and  Parodies.  By  Barry  Pain. 

The  Little  Squire.  By  Mrs.  Henry  De  La  Pasture. 

Zero,  the  Slaver.  A Romance  of  Equatorial  Africa.  \ By  Lawrence 
Into  tho  Unknown  : A Romance  of  South  Africa.  J Fletcher. 
The  Awkward  Squads.  By  Shan  F.  Bullock. 

The  Avenger  of  Blood.  By  J.  Maclaren  Cobban. 

The  Doings  of  Raffles  Haw.  By  A.  Conan  Doyle. 

Father  Stafford.  A Novel.  By  Anthony  Hope.  (Also  People’s 
Edition,  6d.) 

The  Story  of  Francis  Cludde.  \ 

From  the  Memoirs  of  a Minister  of  France.  (By  Stanley 
The  Man  in  Black.  Illustrated.  (Also  Peoples  ( Weyman. 

Edition,  6d.)  J 

King  Solomon’s  Mines.  By  H.  Rider  Haggard.  Hid.  (See also6d.^ 


By 


Sports  and  Pastimes,  Cassell’s  Book  of.  Describing 
more  than  600  Outdoor  and  Indoor  Games  and  Amusements.  New 
Edition.  With  nearly  1,000  Illustrations.  Cloth. 

The  Black  W at  ch  : The  Record  of  an  Historic  Regiment.  By 
Archibald  Forbes,  LL.D.  With  Eight  Illustrations. 

The  Practical  Nursing  of  Infants  and  Children. 

F.  Cole  Madden,  M.B.,  B.S.  Mel.,  F.R.C.S. 

Chinese  Pictures.  By  Mrs.  Bishop,  F.R.G.S.  Illustrated. 
Chinese  Crisis,  The  Story  of  the.  By  Alexis  Krausse. 
Queen  Victoria.  A Personal  Sketch.  By  Mrs.  Oliphar.t. 
Illustrated.  (Also  half -leather,  5s.) 

The  Breech-loader,  and  How  to  Use  It,  By  W.  W. 

Greener.  Illustrated.  New  and  Enlarged  Edition. 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis  (Works  by).  Popular  Edition. 
Each.  (See  also  6d.  and  6s.) 

British  Battles  on  Land  and  Sea.  Cheap  Edition.  In 
Four  Vols.  With  about  800  Engravings.  Each. 

Science  for  All,  Edited  by  Dr.  Robert  Brown,  M.A..  F.L.S..  &c. 

Cheap  Edition.  With  over  1,700  Illustrations.  Five  Vols.  Each. 
Familiar  Garden  Flowers.  Popular  Edition.  In  Five  Vols. 

Forty  Coloured  Plates  in  each  VoL  Cloth  gilt.  Each.  (See  also  21s. 
Familiar  Wild  Flowers,  By  F.  Edward  Hulme,  F.L.S., 
F.S.A.  Popular  Edition.  In  Six  Vols.  With  40  Coloured  Plates  in  each 
Vol.  Each.  (See  also  25s.) 

Familiar  Wild  Birds.  By  W.  Swaysland.  With  Coloured 
Plates.  Vols.  I.  and  II  To  be  completed  in  Four  Vols. 

A Ride  to  Khiva.  By  Fred  Burnaby.  New  Edition.  Illustrated. 
Magic  at  Home.  By  Prof.  Hoffman.  Fully  Illustrated. 

Some  Legendary  Landmarks  of  Africa.  By  Mrs. 

Frank  Evans. 


Old  and  New  Testaments,  Plain  Introductions  to 
the  Books  Of  the.  Reprinted  from  Bishop  Ellicott’s  Bible 
Commentary.  In  Two  Volumes.  Each. 

Concise  Bible  Dictionary*  With  Coloured  Map,  and  numerous 
Illustrations.  Cheap  Edition. 

Aids  to  Practical  Religion.  Selections  from  the  Writings 
and  Addresses  of  W.  Boyd  Carpenter,  Lord  Bishop  of  Ripon.  By 
the  Rev.  J.  H.  Burn,  B.D.,  F.R.S.E. 

The  Early  Days  of  Christianity.  By  the  Very  Rev.  Dean 
Farrar,  D.D.,  F.R.S.  Cheap  Edition.  (See  also  5s.,  7s.  6d.,  24s., 
42  s.) 

The  Life  Of  Christ.  By  the  Very  Rev.  Dean  Farrar,  D.D.,  F.R.S. 
With  16  Full-page  Plates.  Cheap  Edition.  Cloth  gilt.  (See  also 
5s.,  7S.  6d.,  21s.) 

The  Life  and  Work  of  St.  Paul.  By  the  Very  Rev.  Dean 
Farrar,  D.D.,  F.R.S.  Cheap  Edition.  With  16  Full-page  Plates, 
Cloth  gilt.  (See  also  7s.  6d.  and  42s.) 

Side  Lights  on  the  Conflicts  of  Methodism,  1827- 
1852.  With  a Biographical  Sketch  by  Benjamin  Gregory,  D.  D. 
L heap  Edition.  Unabridged.  Cloth. 

Gleanings  after  Harvest.  By  the  Rev.  John  R.  Vernon,  M.A. 

Story  Poems  for  Young  and  Old.  Edited  by  E.  Davenport. 
Cheap  Edition. 

Shaftesbury,  K.G.,  The  Seventh  Earl  of,  The  Life 
and  Work  Of.  By  Edwin  Hodder.  illustrated.  Cheap  Edition. 

The  Ladies'  Physician.  By  A Physician.  Cheap  Edition 

The  Carnation  Manual.  Edited  and  Issued  by  the  National 
Carnation  and  Picotee  Society  (Southern  Section).  New  Edition. 

Artistic  Anatomy.  By  Prof.  M.  Duval.  Cheap  Edition. 

The  English  School  of  Painting,  Cheap  Edition. 

Life  of  Nelson.  By  Robert  Southey.  Illustrated. 

Poultry -Keeper,  The  Practical.  By  Lewis  Wright  With 
Numerous  Woodcuts.  New  and  Enlarge t Edition. 

The  Rabbit  Keeper.  By  “ Cuniculus.” 

Pigeon  Keeper,  The  Practical.  By  Lewis  Wright. 

Talks  with  Working  Men.  By  Marianna  S.  Hagen. 


Casstll  <L  Company,  Limited , Ludgate  Hill,  London;  Paris , Hew  York  and  Melbourne. 


3/6 

coni' d. 


Cassell  8f  Company's  Classified  Price  List. 


3/6 

cont'd. 


4/6 


5/- 


Copyright  in  Books,  The  Law  and  History  of.  By 

Augustine  Birrell.  M.P.  Net. 

BOOKS  FOR  YOUNG  PEOPLE. 

Under  the  Great  Bear.  By  Kirk  Munroe. 

Treasure  Island ■ By  R.  L.  Stevenson.  With  Illustrations  by 
Wal  Paget.  ( Cheap  Edition.) 

Strange  Adventures  in  Dicky-bird  Land.  By  R.  Kesr- 
ton,  F.Z.S.  Illustrated  from  Photographs  taken  direct  from  Nature 
by  C.  Kearton.  (si Iso  cloth. gilt.  5s.) 

Bound  by  a Spell.  By  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Greene. 

The  Red  Terror.  By  Edward  King.  Illustrated. 

The  Capture  of  the  “Estrella.”  A Tale  of  the  Slave  Trade. 

By  Commander  Claude  Harding,  R.N. 

Gleanings  from  Popular  Authors.  Complete  in  One  Vol. 
With  Original  Illustrations. 

Heroes  of  Britain  in  Peace  and  War.  With  300  Original 
Illustrations.  Cheap  Edition.  Complete  in  One  Vol. 

Bo-Peep.  A Treasury  for  the  Little  Ones.  Illustrated 
throughout.  Cloth  gilt.  Yearly  Volume.  (See  also  2s.  6d.) 
Robinson  Cru3oe,  Cassell’s  Fine-Art  Edition  of. 
With  upwards  of  100  Original  Illustrations  by  Walter  Paget. 
Cheap  Edition.  Cloth  gilt. 

The  Pilgrim’s  Progress.  By  John  Bunyan.  With  Notes  by 
the  Rev.  Robert  Maguire,  M.A.,  and  containing  numerous  Illus- 
trations by  H.  C.  Selous  and  M.  Paolo  Priolo.  Cloth. 

Swiss  Family  Robinson,  Cassell’s.  Illustrated.  Cloth. 

(Also  in  cloth,  bevelled  boards,  gilt  edges,  5s.) 

Little  Folks.  Half-Yearly  Vols.  With  6 Full-page  Coloured  Plates 
and  numerous  other  Pictures  printed  in  Colour.  Coloured  boards. 
(See  also  5s.) 

Beyond  the  Blue  Mountains. 

The  Rebellion  of  Lil  Carrington. 

Merry  Girls  of  England. 

Red  Rose  and  Tiger  Lily. 

A Sweet  Girl  Graduate. 

Polly  : A New-fashioned  Girl. 

A World  of  Girls  : A Story  of  a School. 

The  Palace  Beautiful. 

Bashful  Fifteen. 

The  King’s  Command : A Story  for  Girls.  By  Maggie 
Symington.  Illustrated.  Cheap  Edition. 

For  Fortune  and  Glory.  A Story  of  the  Soudan  War.  By 
Lewis  Hough. 

“Follow  my  Leader”;  or,  The  Boys  of  Templeton. 

By  Talbot  Baines  Reed. 

For  Glory  and  Renown.  By  D.  H.  Parry.  With  8 Full-page 
Illustrations. 

With  Claymore  and  Bayonet.  By  Col.  Percy  Groves. 
Illustrated. 

Five  Stars  in  a Little  Pool.  By  Edith  Carrington.  Illustrated. 

The  Three  Homes.  By  Dean  Farrar. 


By 

L.  T.  Meade. 

■ New  Edition, 
with  8 Coloured 
Plates  in  each. 


Building  World.  The  Illustrated  Journal  for  the  Building  Trades. 
Half-yearly  volumes.  Each. 

Elements  of  Machine  Construction  and  Drawing. 

By  Prof.  Henry  J.  Spooner,  C E.,  &c.,and  Ed.  G.  Davey,  A.M.I.M.E. 
Fifty  Sheets.  Size  i6£xi2£  inches.  Complete  Set,  in  Paper  Wrapper. 
(See  also  joj.  6 d.) 

London,  Greater.  Complete  in  Two  Vols.  With  about  400  Original 
Illustrations.  Cheap  Edition.  Each. 

London,  Old  and  New.  In  Six  Vols.  Containing  about  1,200 
Illustrations.  Cheap  Edition.  Each. 

World  Of  Wonders,  The.  Illustrated.  Cheap  Edition.  In  Two 
Vols.  Each. 

Design  in  Textile  Fabrics.  By  T.  R.  Ashenhurst.  With 
Coloured  and  numerous  other  Illustrations. 

Spinning  Woollen  and  Worsted.  By  S.  W.  B.  McLaren. 
Drawing  for  Machinists  and  Engineers.  By  Ellis  A 
Davidson.  With  over  200  Illustrations. 

Work.  The  Illustrated  Journal  for  Mechanics.  New  and  Enlarged 
Series.  Half-Yearly  Vols.  Each.  nargea 


EDUCATIONAL. 

Popular  Educator,  Cassell’s.  With  Coloured  Plates  and 
Maps,  and  other  Illustrations.  In  Eight  Vols.  Each. 

A History  of  England.  From  the  Landing  of  Julius  Qesar  to 
the  Present  Day.  By  H.  O.  Arnold  Forster,  M.A.  Illustrated 
(Also  6s.  6d.) 

Cassell’s  Dictionary  of  Cookery.  With  about  9,000  Redoes 
and  Key  to  the  Principles  of  Cookery.  Cloth. 

Scarlet  and  Blue,  or,  Songs  for  Soldiers  and  Sailors. 

Bylohn  Farmer.  < Words  only,  royal  32mo,6d.  or  gd.)  \>eeatso  2s.  6d  ) 

Physiology  for  Students,  Elementary.  By  Alfred  T 
Schofield,  M.  D.,  M.  R.C.S.  With  Two  Coloured  Plates  and  numerous 
Illustrations.  New  and  Cheaper  Edition. 

Earth,  Our,  and  its  Story.  By  Dr.  Robert  Brown,  F.L.S. 
Three  Vols.,  Illustrated.  Cheap  Edition.  Each 

Universal  History,  Cassell’s  Illustrated.  Four  Vols. 
Cheap  Edition.  Each. 

Gaudeamus.  Songs  for  Colleges  and  Schools.  Edited  by  Tolm 
Farmer.  (The  words  only,  in  paper  covers,  6d. ; cloth,  91I.1  Can  also 
be  obtained  in  sheets  containing  two  Songs  (words  and  music)  in 
quantities  of  one  dozen  and  upwards,  at  id.  per  sheet. 

Dulce  Donum.  Rhymes  and  Songs  for  Children.  Edited  bv  John 
Farmer.  Old  Notation  and  Words.  N.B.— The  Words  of  the  Sows 
in  "Dulce  Domum"  (with  the  Airs  both  in  Tonic  Sol-Fa  and  Old 
Notation  J can  be  had  in  two  parts.  6 d.  each. 

Historical  Cartoons,  Cassell’s  Coloured.  Six.  Mounted 
on  canvas  and  varnished,  with  rollers.  Each.  (5«  also  id.  and  as.  ) 

Dyeing  of  Textile  Fabrics,  The.  By  Prof.  Hummel. 

Steel  and  Iron.  By  Prof.  W.  H.  Greenwood.  F.C.S..  &c. 

Italian  Painting.  By  M.  Langtoo  Douglas.  With  96  Illustra- 
tions. 

Neutral  Tint.  A Course  of  Painting  in.  With  Twenty- 
Jour  Plates  by  K.  P.  Leitch. 

China  Painting.  By  Florence  Lewis.  With  Sixteen 
Coloured  Plates. 

Flowers,  and  How  to  Paint  them. 

Ten  Coloured  Plates. 


Original 
By  Maud  Naftel.  With 


Landscape  Painting  in  Water-Colours.  By  J.  Mac- 
Whirter,  R.A.  With  23  Coloured  Plates. 

Wyllie’s  Marine  Painting  in  Water  Colour.  By  W.  L. 

Wyllie,  A. R.A.  With  24  Coloured  Plates. 

British  Sculpture  and  Sculptors  of  To-Day.  Edited  by 
M.  IT.  Spielnnnn.  Illustrated.  Net.  (Also  cloth,  7s.  6d.  net.) 

The  Military  Forces  of  the  Crown:  Their  Organisa- 
tion and  Equipment.  By  Col.  Daniels.  Edited  by  Dr.  T. 
Miller  Maguire. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Strange  Adventures  in  Dicky-bird  Land.  By  R. 

Kearton,  F.Z.S.  Illustrated  from  Photographs  taken  direct  iroin 
Nature  by  C Kearton.  (See  also  3s.  6d  ) 

Our  Bird  Friends.  By  R.  Kearton,  F.Z.S.  With  100  Illustrations 
from  Photographs  taken  direct  from  Nature  by  C.  Kearton. 

Birds’  Nests,  Eggs,  and  Egg-Collecting.  By  R.  Kearton, 
F.Z.S.  With  22  Coloured  Plates  of  Eggs. 

Uncle  Tom’s  Cabin,  By  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe.  With 
upwards  of  One  Hundred  Original  Illustrations  by  Jenny  Nystrom- 
Stoopendaal.  Cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges. 

Shakspere,  The  Leopold.  With  over  50  Full-page  Illustrations. 
Three  Vols.  Each. 

The  Tale  of  a Field  Hospital.  By  Sir  Frederick  Treves, 
Bart.,  K.C.V.O.,  F. R.C.S.  Illustrated.  With  14  Full-page  Illustra- 
tions from  Photographs. 

Britain’s  Roll  of  Glory ; or.  The  Victoria  Cross,  its 
Heroes,  and  their  Valour.  By  D.  H.  Parry.  With  Eight 
Full-page  Illustrations.  New  and  Enlarged  Edition. 

Keshub  Chunder  Sen’s  Lectures  in  India. 
Adventure,  The  World  of.  Cheap  Edition.  Illustrated  with 
Stirring  Pictures  and  Eighteen  Coloured  Plates.  In  Three  Vols. 
Each. 

Cassell’s  Gazetteer  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland. 

VV  ith  60  Maps.  Six  Vols.  Each. 

Whys  and  Other  Whys : or,  Curious  Creatures  and 
their  Tales.  By  S.  H.  Hamer.  With  Illustrations  by  Harry  B. 
Neilson.  Cloth.  (Also  paper  boards,  3s.  6d.) 

Q’s  (A.  T.  Quiller-Couch)  Works,  Uniform  Edition  of. 


“I  Saw  Three  Ships,’ 
other  Winter’s  Tales. 
Noughts  and  Crosses. 


The  Astonishing  History  of  “I  Saw  Three  Ships,”  and 
Troy  Town. 

Wandering  Heath. 

The  Delectable  Duchy. 

Cassell’s  Magazine  Volume.  Half-Yearly  Vols.  With 
about  700  Original  Illustrations.  (Also  Yearly  Vol.,  8s.) 

Our  Own  Country.  Cheap  Edition.  With  1,200  Original  Illus- 
trations. Three  Double  Vols.  Each. 

Peril  and  Patriotism.  Illustrated.  Two  Vols.  in  One. 

The  Story  of  the  Sea.  Edited  by  Q.  (A.  T.  Quiller-Couch). 
Illustrated.  Cheap  Edition.  In  Two  Vols.  Each. 

John  Ruskin.  By  M.  H.  Spielmann.  Illustrated. 

The  Home  Life  of  the  Ancient  Greeks.  From  the  German 
of  Prof.  H.  Bliimner  by  Alice  Zimmern.  Illus.  Cheap  Edition. 

English  Writers.  By  Prof.  H.  Morley.  Vols.  I.  to  XI.  Each. 

Medical  and  Clinical  Manuals,  for  Practitioners  and  Stu- 
dents of  Medicine.  A List  post  free  on  application.  (Also  at 
7s.  6d.,  8s.  6d.,  9s.,  and  10s.  6d.) 

Cassell’s  Concise  Cyclopaedia.  With  600  Illustrations.  A 

Cyclopaedia  in  One  Volume. 

The  Scales  or  Heaven.  By  the  Rev.  Frederick  Langbridge. 

Cassell’s  Concise  Bible  Dictiorary.  By  the  Rev.  Robert 
Hunter,  LL.D.,  F.G.S.  With  Coloured  Maps  and  other  Illustrations. 

The  Life  of  Christ.  ) By  Dean  Farrar.  Net. 

The  Life  and  Work  of  St.  Paul.  > t See  atso  3s.  6d.,  7s  til.. 

The  Early  Days  of  Christianity.  ) 24s.,  and  42s  ) 

The  History  of  Protestantism.  By  the  Rev.  J.  A.  Wylie, 
LL.D.  Illustrated,  cheap  Edition.  Three  Vols.  Each. 

Flora’s  Feast.  A Masque  of  Flowers.  By  Walter  Crane.  With 
40  pages  in  Colours. 

Little  Folks.  Half-Yearly  Vols.  New  and  Enlarged  Series.  With 
Six  Full-page  Coloured  Plates  and  numerous  other  Pictures  printed 
in  Colour.  Cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges.  (See  also  3s.  6d.) 


Shakspere,  The  Leopold.  Half  persian. 


POPULAR  NOVELS. 

Extra  crown  8vo,  cloth.  Each. 

The  Captain’s  Toll  Gate*  By  Frank  Stockton. 

Aladdin  O’Brien.  By  Gouverneur  Morris. 

A Man’s  Mirror.  By  Emily  Pearson  Finnemorc. 

A Daughter  of  the  Pit.  By  Margaret  Doyle  Jackson. 

The  Tenant  of  the  Grange.  By  Morice  Gerard. 

The  Plowshare  and  the  Sword  By  Ernest  George  Henham. 
An  April  Princess^  By  Constance  Smedley. 

The  Duke  Decides.  By  Headon  Hill. 

Under  the  Iron  Flail.  By  John  Oxenham. 

Nebo  the  Nailer.  By  S Baring-Gould. 

A Fair  Freebooter.  By  Bisil  Marnan. 

The  Cloistering  of  Ursula.  By  Clinton  Scollard. 

The  Dictator’s  Daughter,  By  Edgar  Jepson. 

The  Lord  Protector.  By  S.  Levett-Yeats. 

Under  the  White  Cockade,  By  Halliwell  Sutcliffe. 
Backsheesh.  By  Roma  White. 

Lepidus  the  Centurion.  By  Edwin  L.  Arnold. 

A Man  of  Millions.  By  S.  R.  Keightley,  M.A.,  LL.D. 

The  Princess  Cynthia.  By  Marguerite  Bryant. 

Alice  of  Old  Vincennes.  By  Maurice  Thompson. 

Tommy  and  Grizel.  J 
Sentimental  Tommy.  vBy  J.  M.  Barrie. 

The  Little  Minister.  J 

The  Adventures  ol  Harry  Revel.  J 

The  Laird’s  Luck.  ( By 

Old  Fires  and  Profitable  Ghosts.  ( A.  T.  Quiller-Couch  (Q: 

The  Ship  of  Stars.  J 

ThaerGu^sts  oi  Mine  Host. } By  Mar,an  Bower 
Roxane.  By  Louis  Creswickc. 


Cassell  & Company , Limited,  LudSate  Hill,  London ; Paris,  New  York  and  Melbourne. 


5/- 

tont  d. 


5 6 

net. 

6/- 


6 


Cassell  Sf  Company s Classified  Price  List. 


6 /- 

coni' d. 


A Bitter  Heritage.! 

- - * 1.  / 


ByJ.  Bloundelle-Burton.  • 


V By  Frank  R.  Stockton. 


A Va  .ish  'd  Rival, 

The  Little  Novice.  Bv  Alix  King. 

In  Rjyal  Purple.  By  William  Pigott, 

John  Gayther’s  Garden. 

Afield  and  vfloat. 

I-Cate  Bonnet. 

The  Shellback  ; or,  At  Sea  in  the  'Sixties.  By  Alec  J.  Boyd. 

The  Giant’s  Gate.  i 

The  Garden  of  Swords.  -By  Max  Pemberton. 

Kronstadt.  I 

Potsherds.  By  Mrs  Henry  Birchenough. 

The  Master  of  Ballantrae.  'j 
Treasure  Island.  } 

Catriona. 

The  alack  Arrow. 

The  Wrecker.  [See  also  6d.) 

By  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  and  Lloyd  Osbourne. 

A Limited  Success  By  Sarah  Pitt. 

Ill-gotten  Gold.  By  W.  G.  Tarbet. 


By  R.  L.  Stevenson. 
Library  Edition.  Also 
Popular  Edition,  3s.  6d. 


Rambles  in  and  Near  London.  By  W.  J.  Loftle,  F.S.A. 

Illustrated. 

White’s  Natural  History  of  Selborne.  With  Notes  by 
R.  Kearton,  F.Z.S.  Containing  over  120  Illustrations  from  Photo- 
graphs by  Cherry  and  Richard  Kearton. 

Nature’s  Riddles;  or.  the  Battle  of  the  Beasts.  By 

H.  W.  Shepheard-  Walwyn,  F Z.S.,  F.E.S.  With  Illustrations. 

The  Dominion  of  the  Air  : The  Story  of  Aerial  Navigation. 
By  the  Rev.  J.  M.  Bacon.  With  numerous  Illustrations  from  Photo- 
graphs. 

Pictures  Of  Many  Wars.  By  Frederic  Villiers.  A Thrilling 
Narrative  of  Experiences  on  the  Battlefield  and  Reminiscences  of  a 
World-famous  War  Correspondent  in  many  Parts  of  the  Globe. 
Illustrated. 

With  the  Ophir  ” Round  the  Empire,  an  Account 
of  the  Tour  of  the  Prince  and  Princess  of  Wales. 

By  William  Maxwell. 

America  at  Work.  By  John  Foster  Fraser.  Illustrated. 

The  Real  Siberia.  By  John  Foster  Fraser. 

A Masque  of  Days,  from  the  Last  Essays  of  Elia. 

Newly  Dressed  and  Decorated  by  Walter  Crane.  With  40  Full-page 
Designs  in  Colours. 

Familiar  Butterflies  and  Moths.  By  W.  F.  Kirby.  With 

15  Coloured  Plates. 

An  Eventful  Life.  An  Autobiography-  By  the  Rev.  A.  Harrison. 

Bible  Commentary  for  English  Readers,  Bishop 
Ellicott’s.  Embracing  the  OLD  and  NEW  TESTAMENTS.  Eight 
Vols.  Each. 

Picturesque  Europe.  With  nearly  1,000  Magnificent  Illustrations 
and  64  Special  Plates.  Five  Vols. 

William  Landels,  D.D.  A Memoir.  By  the  Rev.  Thos.  D. 

Landels,  M.  A.  With  Portrait. 

Songs  of  Near  and  Far  Away.  By  E.  Richardson.  With 
numerous  Coloured  and  other  Illustrations. 

Popular  History  of  Animals.  By  Henry  Scherren,  F.Z.S. 

With  13  Coloured  Plates  and  other  Illustrations. 
Franco-German  War,  Cassell’s  History  of  the.  In 
Two  Vols.  Illustrated.  Cheap  Edition.  Each.  [Also  at  9s.  each.) 
Life  of  Rev.  Charles  A.  Berry,  D.D.  By  the  Rev.  J.  S. 
Drummond.  With  Portrait 

Adventures  in  Criticism.  Consisting  of  Articles  contributed  to 
The  Speaker.  By  A.  T.  Quiller-Couch. 

Wild  Life  at  Home.  By  R.  Kearton.  F.Z.S.  Profusely  Illustrated 
from  Photos  direct  lrom  Nature  by  C.  Kearton. 

Church  of  England,  The.  A History  for  the  People.  By  the 
Very  Rev.  H.  D.  M.  Spence,  D.D.,  Dean  of  Gloucester.  Illustrated. 
Complete  in  Four  Vols.  Each. 

The  Countries  of  the  World  By  Dr.  Robert  Brown,  F.L.S. 

illustrated.  Cheap  Edition.  Complete  in  Six  Vols.  Each. 
Universal  Cookery,  Cassell’s.  By  Lizzie  Heritage.  New 
Edition.  With  12  Coloured  Plates  and  other  Illustrations. 

Natural  History,  Cassell’s.  Edited  by  Prof.  P.  Martin 
Duncan,  M.D.,  F.R.S.  In  Three  Double  Vols.  Each.  Illustrated. 
Ballads  and  Songs.  By  William  Makepeace  Thackeray.  With 
Original  Illustrations  by  H.  M.  Brock.  Cloth,  gilt  top. 

Memories  and  Studies  of  War  and  Peace.  By  Archibald 
Forbes,  LL.D. 

Queen  Summer  ; or,  the  Tourney  of  the  Lily  and 
the  Rose.  Containing  40  pages  of  Designs  by  Walter  Crane, 
printed  in  Colours. 

Hand  and  Eye  Training.  By  G.  Ricks,  B.Sc.  Two  Vols.,  with 
Sixteen  Pages  of  Coloured  Plates  in  each  Vol.  Crown  4to.  Each. 

Campaign  Pictures  of  the  War  in  South  Africa. 

1839-1900.  Letters  from  the  Front.  By  A.  G.  Hales. 
Cassell’s  Family  Doctor,  By  A Medical  Man. 
Picturesque  Europe.  (The  British  Isles.)  Cheap 
Edition,  containing  13  Exquisite  Litho  Plates,  and  about  400  Original 
Engravings,  by  the  best  Artists.  Two  Vols.  in  One,  cloth,  gilt  edges. 


MISCELLANEOUS  tf 

With  Nature  and  a Camera.  By  R.  Kearton,  F.Z.S.  With 
180  Illustrations  from  Photographs  bv  C.  Kearton. 

Birds,  Our  Rarer  British  Breeding : Their  Nests, 
Eggs  and  Summer  Haunts.  By  R.  Kearton,  F.Z.S. 

With  about  70  Illustrations  from  Photos  by  C.  Kearton. 

The  Earth’s  Beginning.  By  Sir  Robert  Ball,  LL.D.  With 
T .loured  l’l.ites  .mil  other  Illustrations. 

British  Sculpture  and  Sculptors  of  To-Day.  By 

M.  H.  Spiel mann.  Illustrated.  Net.  (Also  5s.  net.) 

Cassell’s  Cyclopaedia  of  Mechanics.  Series  r.  2 and  3. 
Edited  by  Paul  IS.  Hasluck.  Each  containing  upwards  of  1,200 
Illustrations.  (Each  series  is  complete  in  itself.) 

Personal  Recollections.  By  H.  Sutherland  Edwards. 
Britain’s  Sea  Kings  and  Sea  Fightfc.  With  descriptions 
by  Popular  Writers,  and  Illustrations  from  Original  Drawings  by 
Leading  Artists. 


Memoirs  and  Correspondence  of  Lyon  Playfair, 
First  Lord  Playfair  of  St.  Andrews.  By  Sir  Went,  ss 
Reid.  With  Two  Portraits.  Cheap  Edition.  {See  at  so  ns.) 

Wars  of  the  ’Nineties,  The.  A History  of  the  War- 
fare of  tha  last  Ten  Years  of  the  19th  Century. 
Profusely  Illustrated.  In  One  Vol. 

Star-Land.  By  Sir  Robert  Ball,  LL.D.  Illustrated.  New  and 

Enlarged  Edition.  Entirely  Reset. 

Gulliver’s  Travels.  With  upwards  of  100  Illustrations  from  New 

Plates.  Fine  Art  Edition. 

The  Dictionary  of  English  History.  Edited  by  Sidney  J. 

Low,  B.A.,  and  Prof.  F.  S.  Pulling.  M.A. 

The  Encyclopaedic  Dictionary.  Supplementary  Volume. 
Cassell’s  New  French  Dictionary.  French  English— 
English-French.  Edited  by  James  Boielle,  B.A.  Cloth.  (Also  half 
leather,  10s.  6d.) 

Architectural  Drawing.  By  R.  Phene  Spiers.  Net. 

English  Literature,  A First  Sketch  of.  By  Prof.  Henry 

Morley.  Revised  and  Enlarged  Edition. 

Algebra,  Manual  of.  By  Galbraith  and  Haughton. 

Applied  Mechanics.  By  John  Perry,  M.E.,  &c.  Illustrated. 
Planet,  The  Story  of  Our.  By  the  Rev.  Prof.  Bonney,  F.R.S., 
&c.  With  Coloured  Plates  and  Maps,  and  about  100  Illustrations. 
Cassell’s  History  of  India.  In  One  VoL  Cheap  Edition. 

The  Works  of  Charles  Burton  Barber.  Illustrated  with 
Forty-one  Plates  and  Portraits,  and  containing  Introduction  by 
Harry  Furniss.  Cheap  Edition. 

British  Ballads.  Cheap  Edition.  Illustrated.  Two  Vols.  in  One. 

Cloth. 

Royal  Academy  Pictures.  In  One  Vol. 

Milton’s  Paradise  Lost.  Illustrated  by  Gustave  Dor4.  Popular 
Edition.  Cloth  or  buckram.  (See  also  12s.  6d.  and  21s.) 

Dante’s  Purgatory  and  Paradise.  Illustrated  by  Gustave 
Dor6.  Popular  Edition.  Cloth  or  buckram.  (See  also  21s.) 
Modern  Europe,  A History  of.  By  C.  A.  Fyffe,  M.A.  3 Vols. 
Each. 

Municipal  Taxation  at  Home  and  Abroad.  By  J.  J. 

O’Meara. 

Hygiene  and  Public  Health.  By  B.  Arthur  Whitelegge,  M.D. 

Illustrated.  New  and  Revised  Edition. 

The  Chess  Problem ; Text-Book  with  Illustrations.  Containing 
400  Positions  selected  from  the  Works  of  C.  Planck  and  others. 
Medical  Handbook  of  Life  Assurance.  ByJ.  E.  Pollock, 
M.D.,  and  J.  Chisholm.  Fourth  Edition. 

Saturday  Journal,  Cassell’s.  Yearly  Volume.  Illustrated. 
The  Gardener,  Yearly  Volume.  Profusely  Illustrated. 

Natural  History,  Cassell’s  Concise.  By  Prof.  E.  Perceval 
Wright,  M.A.  Illustrated.  Cloth.  (Also  kept  hat/  bound.) 
Practical  Electricity.  By  Prof.  W.  E.  Ayrton.  Completely  Re- 
written. Illustrated. 

“ Quiver”  Volume,  The.  With  several  hundred  Contributions. 
About  900  Original  Illustrations.  Cloth. 


RELIGIOUS. 

Holy  Land  and  the  Bible,  The.  A Book  of  Scripture  Illustra- 
tions gathered  in  Palestine.  By  the  Rev.  Cunningham  Geikie,  D.D. 
Cheap  Edition.  (Superior  Edition , with  24  Plates.  10s.  6d.) 

Matin  and  Vesper  Bells.  Earlier  and  Later  Collected  Poems 
(chiefly  Sacred).  By  J.  R.  Macdutf,  D.D.  With  Frontispiece. 
Two  Vols.  The  set 

Family  Prayer  Book,  The.  Edited  by  Rev.  Canon  Garbett, 
M.A.,  and  Rev.  S.  Martin.  With  Full-page  Illustrations,  New 
Edition.  ( A iso  in  mo.  occo,  18s.) 

Farrar’s  Life  of  Lives.  Popular  Edition. 

Farrar’s  Life  of  Christ,  Cheap  Illustrated  Quarto  Edition. 

(See  also  3s.  6d.  and  10s.  6d.) 

Farrar’s  Early  Days  of  Christianity.  Popular  Edition. 

Cloth,  gilt  edges.  (See  also  3s.  6d.,  21s.,  24s. , and  42s. ) 

Farrar’s  Life  and  Work  of  St.  Paul.  Chtap  Illustrated 
Ato  Edition.  (See  also  3s.  6d.  and  42s.) 

<fSunday”s  its  Origin,  History,  and  Present  Obli- 
gation (Bampton  Lectures,  i860).  By  the  Ven.  Archdeacon 
Hessey,  D.C.L.  Fifth  Edition. 


Cassell’s  Magazine.  Yearly  VoL  With  upwards  of  1,000  Illustra- 
tions. ( Also  Half-Yearly  Vol.,  5s.) 

Chums.  The  Illustrated  Paper  for  Boys.  Yearly  Volume. 


The  Handyman’s  Book  of  Tools,  Materials,  and  Processes 
employed  in  Wood  Working.  Edited  by  Paul  N.  Hasluck.  With 
about  2,500  Illustrations. 

Pictorial  Scotland  and  Ireland. 

Reminiscences  of  Oxford.  By  the  Rev.  W.  Tuckwell,  M.A. 

Illustrated. 

Sacred  Art.  The  Bible  Story  Pictured  by  Eminent  Modern  Painters. 

Edited  by  A.  G.  Temple,  F.S.A.  In  One  Vol. 

The  Empire.  Complete  in  Two  Volumes,  containing  nearly 
700  pages  of  splendid  Illustrations,  reproduced  from  authentic 
photographs,  a large  number  of  which  have  been  made  specially  lor 
this  work,  and  printed  on  Plate  Paper.  Each. 

My  Life  in  Christ.  Being  Extracts  from  the  Diary  of  the  Most 
Reverend  John  Iliytch  Sergieff  (Father  John).  Translated  by  E.  E. 
Goulaeff,  5t.  Petersburg. 

The  Queen’s  London.  Containing  nearly  500  Exquisite  Views 
of  London  and  its  Environs. 


The  Coronation  Book  of  Edward  VII.,  King  of  All  the 

Britains  and  Emperor  of  India.  By  W.  J.  Loftie,  B.A  , F.S.A. 
With  24  Coloured  Plates  and  numerous  Illustrations.  Sumptuously 
Illuminated  in  Gold  and  Colours. 

The  Life  of  Christ.  Biographical  Edition.  By  Dean  Farrar. 

With  upwards  of  300  Illustrations  from  special  photographs.  Net. 
William  Black,  Novelist.  By  Sir  Wemyss  Reid.  Net. 

The  Child's  Bible,  With  ico  Full-page  Plates,  including  12  in 

Colours. 

Cassell’s  Family  Lawyer.  By  a Barrister-at-Law. 


7/6 

confa. 


9/- 


10/6 


Cassell  <L  Company , Limited , Ludgate  hill,  London;  Paris,  New  York  and  Melbourne. 


10/6 

coni' d. 


12/- 


12/6 


14/- 

16/- 


Cassell  8f  Company's  Classified  Price  List. 


7 


Wild  Nature’s  Ways*  ByR.  Kearton,  F.Z.S.  With  Rembrandt 
Frontispiece  and  200  iilustra'ions  from  photographs  taken  direct 
from  Nature  by  Cherry  and  Richard  Kearton. 

Moses  and  Geology?  or,  The  Harmony  of  the  Bible 
with  Science.  By  the  Rev.  Samuel  Kinns,  Ph.D.,  F.R.A.S. 
With  no  Illustrations.  (New  Edition  on  larger  and  superior  paper. ) 

Europe.  A History  of  Modern.  By  C.  A.  Fyffe,  M.A.,  late 
Fellow  of  University  College,  Oxtord.  Cheap  Edition.  In  One  Vol. 
(Also  Library  Edition,  Illustrated,  3 Vols.,  7s.  6d.  each.) 

The  Dor6  Don  Quixote*  With  about  400  Illustrations  by  Gustave 
Dord  Cheap  Eaition. 

Fulton’s  Book  of  Pigeons  With  Standards  for  Judging.  Edited 
by  Lewis  Wright.  Revised,  Enlarged,  and  Supplemented  by  the 
Rev.  W.  F-  Luinley.  With  Fifty  Full-page  Illustrations.  Popular 
Edition.  In  One  VoL  (Also  Original  Edition , with  50  Coloured 
Plates  and  Numerous  Engravings,  21s.) 

Elements  of  Machine  Construction  and  Drawing.  By 

Prof.  Henry  J.  Spooner,  C.E.,  &c.,  and  Edward  G.  Davey, 
A.MI.M.E.  Fifty  Sheets.  Size  164x124  inches.  In  One  Vol. 
Cloth.  (See  also  4s.  6d.) 

R.  H.  S,  Curves  (Scaled  Curve  Templates).  By  Prof.  R.  H. 
Smith.  23  in  box  with  explanatory  pamphlet. 

Dictionary  of  Phrase  and  Fable.  By  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Brewer.  Entirely  New  and  Largely  Increased  Edition.  (Also  to  be 
had  in  half-morocco.  Two  Vols.,  15s.) 

Building  Construction  Plates.  A series  of  40  drawings. 
Cloth.  (Or  Copies  of  any  plate  may  be  obtained  in  quantities  of  not 
less  than  one  dozen,  price  is.  6d.  per  dozen.) 

“Six  Hundred  Years”;  or,  Historical  Sketches  of  Eminent 
Men  and  Women  who  have  more  or  less  come  into  contact  with 
the  Abbey  and  Church  of  Holy  Trinity,  Minories,  from  1293  to  1893. 
and  some  account  of  the  Incumbents,  the  Fabric,  the  Plate.  &c.  &c. 
With  65  Illustrations.  By  the  Rev.  Dr.  Samuel  Kinns,  F.R.A.S.,  &c. 
&c.  Net. 

Holbein’s  ••  Ambassadors  ” Unriddled.  The  Counts 
Palatine  Otto,  Henry,  and  Philipp.  By  William 
Frederick  Dickes.  Illustrated.  Net. 

Poultry,  The  Book  Of.  By  Lewis  Wright.  Popular  Edition. 
With  Illustrations  on  Wood.  (See  also  21s.) 

Gun  and  its  Development,  The.  With  Notes  on  Shooting. 
By  W.  W.  Greener.  With  Illustrations.  Entirely  New  Edition. 

Sun,  The  story  Of  the.  By  Sir  Robert  Ball,  LL.D.  With 
Eight  Coloured  Plates  and  other  Illustrations.  Cheap  Edition. 

Heavens,  The  Story  of  the.  By  Sir  Robert  Ball,  LL.D. 
Popular  Edition.  Illustrated  by  Chromo  Plates  and  Wood 
Engravings. 


Cassell’s  Popular  Science.  Edited  by  Alexander  S.  Galt. 
Profusely  Illustrated. 

Sports  of  the  World.  Edited  by  F.  G.  Aflalo,  F.R.G.S.,  F.Z.S. 
With  several  hundred  New  and  Original  Illustrations. 

Britain  at  Work.  A Pictorial  Description  of  our  National  Indus- 
tries. Written  by  popular  authors,  and  containing  nearly  500  Illustra- 
tions. 

Her  Majesty’s  Tower.  By  Hepworth  Dixon.  2 Vols.  With 

Coloured  Plates. 

Living  London:  its  Work  and  its  Play,  its  Humour 
and  its  Pathos,  its  Sights  and  its  Scenes.  Edited 

by  George  R.  Sims.  Complete  in  Three  Vols.  Profusely  Illustrated. 
Each. 

The  Nation’s  Pictures.  Complete  in  4 Vols.  Each  containing  48 
bea  itifnl  Coloured  Reproductions  of  some  of  the  finest  Modern 
Paintings  in  ihe  Picture  Galleries  of  Great  Britain.  With  Descriptive 
Text.  Each. 


Aconcagua  and  Tierra  del  Fuego.  A Book  of  Climbing, 
Travel,  and  Exploration.  By  Sir  Martin  Conway.  With  numerous 
Illustrations  from  Photographs.  Net. 

British  Nigeria.  By  Lieut.-Col.  Mockler-Ferryman.  With  16 
Illustrations.  Net. 

“The  Shop.”  The  Story  of  the  Royal  Military 
Academy.  By  Capt.  Guggisberg,  R.E.  With  numerous 
Illustrations  and  Plight  Coloured  Plates.  New  and  Revised  Edition. 
Net. 

Toledo  and  Madrid  : Their  Records  and  Romances. 

By  Leonard  Williams.  With  55  Illustrations.  Net. 

Milton’s  Paradise  Lost.  Illustrated  by  Dor£.  Cheap  Edition. 
In  One  Vol.  (See  also  7s.  6d.  and  21s.) 


Social  England.  Edited  by  H.  D.  Traill,  D.C.L.,  andj.  S.  Mann, 
M.  A.  Vols.  I.,  II.,  III.  and  IV.  of  New  Illustrated  Edition.  Net. 


Li  Hung-chang  By  Mrs.  Archibald  Little.  With  Rembrandt 
Frontispiece  and  8 Plates,  Net. 

The  Book  Of  the  Cat.  By  Frances  Simpson.  With  12  Full-page 
Plates  in  Colour  and  numerous  Illustrations.  Net. 

The  Land  of  the  Dons.  By  Leonard  Williams.  With  about  42 
Illustrations.  Net. 


The  Life  of  Lives  : Further  Studies  in  the  Life  of 
Christ,  By  Dean  Farrar. 


“Graven  in  the  Rock”;  or,  the  Historical  Accuracy 
Oi  the  Bible.  By  Rev.  Dr.  Samuel  Kinns,  F.R.A.S.,  &c.  Ax. 
With  Numerous  Illustrations.  Library  Edition.  Two  Vols. 

The  Dord  Bible.  With  200  Full-page  Illustrations  by  Gustave  Dor6. 
(Also  m leather  binding,  21s.) 


The  Nation’s  Pictures.  Complete  in  4 Vols.  Each  containing  48 
beautiful  Coloured  Reproductions  of  some  of  the  finest  Modern 
Paintings  in  tne  Picture  Galleries  of  Great  Britain.  With  Descrip- 
tive Text.  Half  Leather.  Each.  (See  also  12s.) 


Shakspere,  The  Royal,  Three  Vols.  The  Set 


Cathedrals,  Abbeys,  and  Churches  of  England  and 
Wales.  Descriptive,  Historical,  Pictorial.  Popular  Edition. 
With  nearly  500  Original  Illustrations.  Two  Vol 5.  The  Set. 


Living  London.  Half  Leather.  Each.  (See  also  12s.) 

The  History  of  "Punch.”  By  M.  H.  Spielmann.  With  nearly 
170  Illustrations,  Portraits,  and  Facsimiles.  In  One  VoL  Also 
Large  Paper  Edition,  £,  2 2s.) 

Rivers  of  Great  Britain.  Descriptive,  Historical,  Pictorial. 

The  Royal  River : The  Thames  from  Source  to 
Sea.  With  Several  Hundred  Original  Illustrations.  Popular 
Edition. 


Rivers  of  the  East  Coast.  With  numerous  highly  finished 
Engravings.  Popular  Edition.  (See  also  42s.) 

Rivers  of  the  South  and  West  Coasts. 


Early  Christianity  and  Paganism.  By  Very  Rev. 
H.  D.  M.  Spence,  D.D.  Illustrated.  Net. 


The  Automobile.  A Practical  Treatise  on  the  Construction  of 
Modern  Motor-Cars.  Steam,  Petrol,  Electric,  and  Petrol  Electric. 

- Edited  by  Paul  N.  Hasluck,  With  804  Illustrations.  Net, 

The  Butterflies  and  Moths  of  Europe^  By  W.  F. 

Kirby,  F.L.S.,  F.E.S.  With  54  Coloured  Plates.  Net. 

Sights  and  Scenes  in  Oxford  City  and  University. 

Illustrated  with  upwards  of  100  Plates  after  original  Photographs. 
In  one  Vol. 

British  Birds’  Nests  : How,  Where,  and  When  to 
Find  and  Identify  Them.  By  Richard  Kearton,  l-.Z.S.  With 
nearly  130  Illustrations  of  Nests,  Eggs,  Young,  etc.,  irom  Photographs 
direct  from  Nature  by  C.  Kearton.  ( See  also  js.  6d.) 


Memoirs  and  Correspondence  of  Lyon  Playfair. 
First  Lord  Playfair  of  St.  Andrews.  By  Sir  Wemyss 
Reid,  With  Two  Portraits.  (See  also  7s.  6d.) 


Dante’s  Inferno,  Purgatory,  and  Paradise,  and  Mil- 
ton’s Paradise  Lost.  Three  Vols.  Illustrated  by  Dord 
In  Case. 

Magazine  of  Art,  The.  Yearly  Volume.  With  Exquisite  Photo- 
gravures, and  about  800  Illustrations  from  Original  Drawings,  and  a 
series  of  full-page  Plates. 

Annals  of  Westminster  Abbey.  By  E.  T.  Bradley  (Mrs.  A. 
Murray  Smith).  Illustrated  by  W.  Hatherell,  R.I.,  H.  M.  Paget,  and 
Francis  S.  Walker.  F.S.A.,  A.R.I.E  Royal  4to.  With  a Preface  by 
The  Dean  of  Westminster  and  a Chapter  on  the  Abbey  Buildings  by 
J.  T.  Micklethwaite,  F.S.A.  Cheap  Edition. 

Familiar  Garden  Flowers.  Popular  Edition.  In  Five  Vols. 
With  40  Full-page  Coloured  Plates  in  each  VoL.  In  paste  grain,  Five 
Vols.  in  box  to  match.  Net.  (See  also  3s.  6d.) 


Poultry,  The  New  Book  of.  By  Lewis  Wright.  With 
Thirty  exquisite  Coloured  Plates.  Cloth,  gilt  edges. 


Miltons’  Paradise  Lost.  4to.  Illustrated  with  Full-page  Draw- 
ings by  Gustave  Dord.  (See  also  7s.  6d.  and  12s.  6d.) 

Shakespeare,  The  Plays  of.  Edited  by  Prof.  Henry  Morley. 
Thirteen  Vols.,  in  box,  cloth;  or  39  Vols.,  cloth,  in  box.  (Also 
half-morocco,  cloth  sides,  42s.) 


RELIGIOUS  WORKS. 

Farrar’s  Life  of  Christ,  Life  and  Work  of  St.  Paul, 
and  Early  Days  of  Christianity,  in  uniform  binding. 
Cloth,  gilt  top  in  cloth  box.  The  set.  (See  also  3s.  6d.  and  xos.  6d.) 


Early  Days  of  Christianity,  The.  By  the  Very  Rev.  Dean 
Farrar,  D.D.,  F.R.S.  Library  Eaition.  Two  Vols.,  demy  8vo. 
See  also  3s.  6d.,  5s.,  7s.  6d.,  21s.,  and  42s.) 


Familiar  Wild  Flowers.  Popu.ar  Edition.  In  Six  Vols.  With 
40  Full-page  Coloured  Plates  in  each  Vol.  In  paste  grain,  Six  Vols. 
in  box  to  match.  Net.  (See  also  3s.  6d.) 


15/- 

confd. 


16/- 

18/- 

21/- 


24/* 

25/- 


Cassell  <k  Company,  Limited,  Ludgatc  Hill,  London  ; Paris,  New  York  and  Melbourne. 


30/- 


32/- 

35/ 


8 


Cassell  fy  Company's  Classified  Price  List. 


A History  and  Description  of  the  Old  French  Faience. 

By  M L.  Scion.  Edited  by  W.  Burton.  With  24  Elates  in  Colour, 
and  other  plates.  Net. 

Cassell’s  Dictionary  of  Practical  Gardening.  Edited 
by  Walter  P.  W right.  With  20  Coloured  Platts  and  upwards  of 
i, 000  Illustrations  from  Photographs  taken  direct  from  Nature.  Two 
Volumes.  Net. 


The  Life,  Letters,  and  Friendships  of  Richard 
Monckton  Milnes,  First  Lord  Houghton.  By  Sir 

Wemyss  Keid.  Two  Vols.,  with  Two  Portraits. 


Dog,  Illustrated  Book  of  the.  By  Vero  Shaw,  B.A.  Cantab.  ; 
With  Twenty-eight  Facsimile  Coloured  Plates.  Demy  4to,  cloth  ' 
gilt.  (See  also  45s. ) 


Dog.  Illustrated  Book  of  the.  By  Vero  Shaw.  B.A.  With 
Twenty-eight  Coloured  Plates.  Half-morocco.  (See  also  35s.) 


The  Water-colour  Drawings  of  J.  M.  W.  Turner, 
R.A.,  in  the  National  Gallery.  An  edition  de  luxe, 
consisting  of  58  lacsiinile  Reproductions  in  Colour  of  Pictures  of  the 
River  Seine,  the  Rivers  of  England,  and  the  Ports  of  England,  with 
descriptive  text  by  THEODORE  A.  COOK.  The  edition  b limned  to 
1,200  copies.  Net. 

Vicat  Cole,  The  Life  and  Paintings  of.  Described  by 
Robert  Chignell,  Barrister-at-Law.  With  59  Full-page  Plates  and 
numerous  smaller  plates  of  Pictures  and  Studies,  reproduced  from 
Photographs  by  Collotype  other  Processes.  In  Three  Vols. 

Chinese  Porcelain.  By  Cosmo  Monkhouse.  With  24  Coloured 
Hates  and  other  Illustrations.  Net.  Price  raised  to. 

English  Porcelain.  By  W.  Burton.  With  83  Plates,  including  35 
in  Colour.  Net.  Price  raised  to. 


42/- 


Canaries  and  Cage-Birds,  The  Illustrated  Book  of. 

With  Fifty-six  Facsimile  Coloured  Plates,  and  numerous  Wood 
Engravings.  (Also  in  half-morocco,  45s.) 


Cats  and  Kittens.  By  Henriette  Ronner.  With  Portrait  and  13 
magnificent  Full-page  Photogravure  Plates  on  India  Paper,  ana 
numerous  Illustrations.  4to,  cloth  gilt. 

Rivers  of  Great  Britain.  Descriptive,  Historical,  Pictorial. 

Rivers  of  the  South  and  West  Coasts.  Royal  4to. 
With  Etching  as  Frontispiece,  and  Numerous  Illustrations  in 
Text. 

Rivers  of  the  East  Coast.  With  numerous  highly-finished 
Engravings.  Royal  4to,  with  Etching  as  Frontispiece.  Original 
Lai  lion.  (See  also  16s.) 

Dore  Gallery,  The.  Popular  Edition.  With  50  Illustrations  by 
Gustave  Dore.  Cloth  gilt,  bevelled  boards. 

Egypt : Descriptive,  Historical,  and  Picturesque. 

By  Prof.  G.  Ebers.  Translated  by  Clara  Bell,  with  Notes  by 
Samuel  Birch,  ELD.,  D.C.L  , F.S.A.  Two  Vols.  With  about  8eo 
Original  Engravings. 

St.  Paul,  The  Life  and  Work  of.  by  the  Very  Rev.  Dean 
Farrar.  Library  Edition,  morocco.  Illustrated  Edition,  morocco. 
(See  also  3s,  6d.  and  7s.  6d.) 

Farrar’s  Early  Days  of  Christianity.  Library  Edition. 
Two  Vols.,  morocco.  ( See  also  3s.  6dtl  7s.  6d.,  21s.,  and  24s.) 

The  Tidal  Thames.  By  Grant  Allen.  With  India  Proof  Impres- 
sions o!  20  Magnificent  Full-page  Photogravure  Plates,  and  many 
other  Illustrations,  after  original  drawings  by  W.  L.  Wyllie,  A R.A. 
Cloth,  net. 


Henriette  Ronner.  The  Painter  of  Cat-Life  and  Cat  Character. 
By  M.  H.  Spielmann.  Containing  a Series  of  Beautiful  Illustrations. 
Large  Paper  Edition . 


The  Picturesque  Mediterranean.  Magnificently  Illustrated. 
Coloured  Frontispiece  by  Birket  Foster.  Complete  in  Two  Vols. 


The  National  Portrait  Gallery.  Two  Vols.  Edited  by 
Li  n. el  Cust,  M.  A.  Containing  reproductions  of  every  picture  in  the 
Gallery.  (Also  half-morocco , £8  8s.  net ; full  morocco,  £ 10  10s.  net) 


The  Encyclopaedic  Dictionary.  Complete  in  Seven  Vols., 
half -morocco.  The  set 


Picturesque  Canada.  A Delineation  by  Pen  and  Pencil  of  all 
the  Features  of  Interest  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada,  from  its 
Discovery  to  the  Present  Day.  With  about  600  Original  Illustrations. 
Complete  in  Two  Volumes.  The  Set 


Picturesque  America.  Complete  in  Four  Vols.,  with  Forty- 
eight  Exquisite  Steel  Plates  and  about  800  Original  Wood  Engravings. 
The  Set 

British  Fossil  Reptiles,  A History  of.  By  Sir  Richard 
Owen,  K.C.B.,  F.R.S.,  &c.  With  268  Plates.  Complete  in  Four 
Volumes. 


The  National  Gallery.  Edited  by  Sir  E.  J.  Poynter,  P.R.A. 
Illustrating  every  Picture  in  the  National  Gallery.  The  Set  of 
Three  Vols.,  net.  Price  raised  to. 


Magazines  and  Serial  Publications 

M.,  Monthly.  W.,  Weekly.  F.,  Fortnightly. 


MAGAZINES. 


Cassell’s  Magazine.  Monthly,  6d. 

The  Quiver.  Monthly,  6d. 

Little  Folks.  Monthly,  6d. 

The  Magazine  of  Art.  New  Series. 
Monthly,  Is.,  net. 

Chums.  Monthly,  6d.  (Also  W.,  Id.) 


Cassell’s  Saturday  Journal.  Monthly, 
6d.  (Also  W.,  Id.) 

The  Penny  Magazine.  Monthly,  6d. 

(Also  W.,  Id.) 

Tiny  Tots.  Monthly,  Id. 


Building  World.  The  Illustrated  Journal 
for  the  Building  Trades.  W.,  Id. ; M.,  6d. 

The  Gardener.  A Weekly  Journal  for  all 
who  cultivate  Flowers,  Fruit,  and 
Vegetables.  W.,  Id. 


WEEKLY  JOURNALS 

Men  and  Women.  Edited  by  Geo.  R.  SIMS. 

W.,  Id. 

Work.  The  Illustrated  Journal  for  Mechanics. 

W.,  Id. ; M.,  6d. 

SERIAL  PUBLICATIONS. 

Dor6  Dante.  F.,  6d.  net. 

Encyclopaedic  Dictionary.  W.,  6d.  net. 
Farrar’s  Life  of  St.  Paul.  F.,  6d.  net. 
Metalworking.  M.,  6d.  net. 

Mysteries  of  Police  and  Crime.  F.,  6d.  net. 
Royal  Shakspere.  F.,  6d.  net. 


.ffsop's  Fables.  M.,  6d.  net. 

Annals  of  Surgery.  M.,  2s. 

Biblewomen  and  Nurses.  M.,  2d. 

British  Isles,  The.  F.,  7d.  net. 

Cassell's  Family  Lawyer.  F.,  6d.  net. 

Cassell's  National  Library.  1 vol.  Weekly,  61.  net. 


Social  England.  F.,  Is.  net. 


Letts’s  Diaries  and  other  Time-Saving  Publications  are  publi  ed  exclusively  by 
Cassell  & Company,  and  particulars  will  be  forwarded  post  free  on  application  to  the  Publishers. 

Cassell  & Company,  Limited,  LudgaXt  Hill,  London;  fans,  New  York  and  Melbourne. 


u 


45/- 

63/- 


70/- 

£4/4 

£6/6 

£7/7 

£9/9 

£12/12 

£16/16 


1 


