Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 


It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 


Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 


Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google ““watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 


at[http://books.google.com/] 


Google 


Acerca de este libro 


Esta es una copia digital de un libro que, durante generaciones, se ha conservado en las estanterías de una biblioteca, hasta que Google ha decidido 
escanearlo como parte de un proyecto que pretende que sea posible descubrir en línea libros de todo el mundo. 


Ha sobrevivido tantos años como para que los derechos de autor hayan expirado y el libro pase a ser de dominio público. El que un libro sea de 
dominio público significa que nunca ha estado protegido por derechos de autor, o bien que el período legal de estos derechos ya ha expirado. Es 
posible que una misma obra sea de dominio público en unos países y, sin embargo, no lo sea en otros. Los libros de dominio público son nuestras 
puertas hacia el pasado, suponen un patrimonio histórico, cultural y de conocimientos que, a menudo, resulta difícil de descubrir. 


Todas las anotaciones, marcas y otras señales en los márgenes que estén presentes en el volumen original aparecerán también en este archivo como 
testimonio del largo viaje que el libro ha recorrido desde el editor hasta la biblioteca y, finalmente, hasta usted. 


Normas de uso 


Google se enorgullece de poder colaborar con distintas bibliotecas para digitalizar los materiales de dominio público a fin de hacerlos accesibles 
a todo el mundo. Los libros de dominio público son patrimonio de todos, nosotros somos sus humildes guardianes. No obstante, se trata de un 
trabajo caro. Por este motivo, y para poder ofrecer este recurso, hemos tomado medidas para evitar que se produzca un abuso por parte de terceros 
con fines comerciales, y hemos incluido restricciones técnicas sobre las solicitudes automatizadas. 


Asimismo, le pedimos que: 


+ Haga un uso exclusivamente no comercial de estos archivos Hemos diseñado la Búsqueda de libros de Google para el uso de particulares; 
como tal, le pedimos que utilice estos archivos con fines personales, y no comerciales. 


+ No envíe solicitudes automatizadas Por favor, no envíe solicitudes automatizadas de ningún tipo al sistema de Google. Si está llevando a 
cabo una investigación sobre traducción automática, reconocimiento óptico de caracteres u otros campos para los que resulte útil disfrutar 
de acceso a una gran cantidad de texto, por favor, envíenos un mensaje. Fomentamos el uso de materiales de dominio público con estos 
propósitos y seguro que podremos ayudarle. 


+ Conserve la atribución La filigrana de Google que verá en todos los archivos es fundamental para informar a los usuarios sobre este proyecto 
y ayudarles a encontrar materiales adicionales en la Búsqueda de libros de Google. Por favor, no la elimine. 


+ Manténgase siempre dentro de la legalidad Sea cual sea el uso que haga de estos materiales, recuerde que es responsable de asegurarse de 
que todo lo que hace es legal. No dé por sentado que, por el hecho de que una obra se considere de dominio público para los usuarios de 
los Estados Unidos, lo será también para los usuarios de otros países. La legislación sobre derechos de autor varía de un país a otro, y no 
podemos facilitar información sobre si está permitido un uso específico de algún libro. Por favor, no suponga que la aparición de un libro en 
nuestro programa significa que se puede utilizar de igual manera en todo el mundo. La responsabilidad ante la infracción de los derechos de 
autor puede ser muy grave. 


Acerca de la Búsqueda de libros de Google 


El objetivo de Google consiste en organizar información procedente de todo el mundo y hacerla accesible y útil de forma universal. El programa de 
Búsqueda de libros de Google ayuda a los lectores a descubrir los libros de todo el mundo a la vez que ayuda a autores y editores a llegar a nuevas 


audiencias. Podrá realizar búsquedas en el texto completo de este libro en la web, en la página[nhttp: //books.google.com 





1 THE GIFT OF * 


Mrs. William Dinsmore Briggs 


English Depsttment:of 


STANFORD UNIVERSITY 


Transferred to the 
1 


Stanford University Libraries 








HISTORY 


OF 


SPANISH LITERATURE. 


VOL. IIL 


HISTORY 


or 


SPANISH LITERATURE 


BY 


GEORGE TICKNOR 





IN THREE VOLUMES. 
VOL. IL. 


THIRD AMERICAN EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED. 


BOSTON 
TICKNOR AND FIELDS 
1864 


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by 
TICKNOR AND FIELDS, 
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 


UnrversiTY PRESS. 
WeELcH, BIGELOW, AND COMPANY, 
CAMBRIDGE. 


CONTENTS OF VOL. III. 


SECOND PERIOD. 


(CONTENUED.) 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


Lyric PorrRr. 


Farly Lyrio Tendency . + 
Italian School of Boscan . 
National School . . 
Lomas de Cantorál . . 
Francisco de Figueroa. . 
Vicente Espinel... 
Montemayor. ES 
Barahona de Soto, Rafo . 
Vegas, Padilla... +. 
Lopez Maldonado . . . 
Fernando de Herrera . . . 
His Odes E ee 
His Castilian Style. . 
Pedro Espinosa 

His Flores de Poetas Lastres” - 
Rey de Artieda . + 
Manoel de Portugal... 
Carrillo . . . . . 
Cristóval de Mesa... 
Francisco de Ocaña —. . 
Lope de Sosa... +. 
Alonso de Ledesma o. 
The Conceptistas —. . + 
Cultismo and its Causes . 
Luis de Góngora... 


ro .. 
SERRA Rar AAA 


His earlier Poetry . 


His later Poetry 


His Extravagance . 


His Obsourity + 
His Commentators 
Bis Followers .. 


Count Villamediana 


Felix de Arteaga 
Roca y Serna 


Antonio de Vega 


Anastasio Pantaleon 


Violante del Cielo 


Manoel de Melo. 
Moncayo, La Torre 
Vergara... 


Rozas, Ulloa. 
Salazar . 


Spread of Cultismo 


Contest about it 


Francisco de Medrano 


Pedro Venegas 


Baltasar de Alcazar . 


Arguijo .  . 
Antonio Balvas . 


CHAPTER XXX. 


Lyric POETRY, CONCLUDED. 


The Argensolas . . . + 
Lupercio E 
Bartolomé . . . . + 
Their Poetry... . 


31 
81 
82 
32 


Juan de Jauregui 
His Orfeo + 

His Aminta . 
His Lyrical Poetry 


34 
34 





HISTORY 


or 


SPANISH LITERATURE. 


VOL. IIL 


HISTORY 


or 


SPANISH LITERATURE. 


VOL. IHIL 





CONTENTS. xi 


S APPENDIX, C. 


FERNAN GOMEZ DE CIBDAREAL AND THR CENTON EPISTOLARIO. 


Suggestions on its Genuineness. 416 


Probably a Forgery . 415 
No such Person mentioned ear- 
Y. o. - 416 


No Manuscript of the Lefiers — 416 
Date of the earliest Edition 

false . . . . . 416 
Second Edition admite it. 416 
No Date to the Letters at first 416 
Their Style. . . . 417 


That of the First Edition. 417 

Misstatements about Juan de 
Mena... +. 417 

About Barrientos . . . 417 


About Alvaro de Lana . . 418 

Appeared in an Age of Forger- 
los. . : 418 

State of the Question. . 419 


Postsoript, 1861, Reply to Ob- 
jections . . . + 419 


APPENDIX, D. 


Tak Buscarit. 


Statement by Los Rios . . 428 


By Ruydiaz  . 4238 
Effect of their Statements . 424 
Don Adolfo de Castro . . 425 
.Publishes a Buscapié +. 425 
“Whatitis . . 426 
Contradicts Los Rios and Ray- 

diaz  . 427 
lis long Concealment suspl 

cious . . 427 
Its External Evidence . . 427 


Argote de Molina . . 427 


The Duke of Lafóes +. 428 
Don Pascual de Gándara . 428 
Its Internal Evidence . . 429 
Resemblances to the Style of 
Cervantes... . 429 
Mistake about Enzinas . . 430 


About an old Proverb . . 430 
Its Title-page . 481 
Its Notice of Alcalá... 481 


State of the Question. . 482 
Postscript, 1861, Esply to Ob- 
jections . . 482 


APPENDIX, E. 


Ebprri0x8, TRANSLATIONS, AND ÍMITATIONS OF THE DoN QuIXOTE. 


First Part . .. + 485 
Second Part." . . . 486 
Both Parts. .  . 486 
Lord Carteret's Edition —. 486 
That of the Academy .  . 486 
Of Bowle . . . . 487 


Of Pellicer... . 487 
Of Clemencia... 488 
Translations...  -. 488 
Imitations out of Spain. 440 
In Spain... . . 441 


lts Fame everywhere . + 443 


APPENDIX, F. 


EarLY COLLECTIONS OF OLD SPANISH PLAYS. 


Comedias de Diferentes Autores 448 
Comedias Nuevas Escogidas . 444 


Various smaller Collections. 446 


xv CONTENTS. 


APPENDIX, G. E 
On THE Or1GIN OF CULTISMO. 
Controversy about itin Italy . 447  Arteagamndlsla. . . 448 


Bottinelli and Tiraboschi . 447  Lampillas . . +. . 449 
Spanish Jesuits in Italy . . 448  Endofthe Controversy . 450 
Serrano and Andres . . 448  Resultofit . . . +. 400 
Vannetti and Zorzi. —. . 448 


APPENDIX, H. 
INEDITA. 


L Poema de José el Patriarca 451 . TIL El Rabi Santob. . . 454 
TI. Danza General de la Muerte 453 


APPENDIX, Il. 


1862. 
RECENT PUBLICATIONS +. 456 


INDEX. o e e e a 8 


HISTORY 


or 


SPANISH LITERATURE. 





SECOND PERIOD. 


THE LITERATURE THAT EXISTED IN SPAIN FROM THE ACCESSION OF THE 
AUSTRIAN FAMILY TO IT8 EXTINCTION; OR FROM THE 
BEGINNING OF THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY TO 
THE END OF THE SEVENTEENTH. 


(OONTINUED.) 


VOL. HL 1 A 


HISTORY 


or 


SPANISH LITERATURE. 





SECOND PERIOD. 


(OCONTINUED.) 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


LYRIC POETRY.-—IT8 CONDITION FROM THE TIME OF BOS0AN AND 
GARCILAS80 DE LA VEGA. — CANTORÁL, FIGUEROA, ESPINEL, MON- 
TEMAYOR, BARAHONA DE 50TO, RUFO, DAMIAN DE VEGAS, PA- 
DILLA, MALDONADO, LUIS DE LEON, FERNANDO DE HERRERA AND 
HIS POETICAL LANGUAGE, ESPINOSA'S COLLECTION, MANOEL DB 
PORTUGAL, MESA, LEDESMA AND THE CONCEPTISTAS. — CULTISMO, 
AND SIMILAR BAD TASTE IN OTHER COUNTRIES. —GÓNGOBA AND 
HIS FOLLOWERS, VILLAMEDIANA, FPARAVICINO, ROOA Y BERNA, 
ANTONIO DE VEGA, PANTALEON, VIOLANTB DEL CIELO, MELO, 
MONCAYO, LA TORRE, VERGÁRA, ROZAS, ULLOA, SALAZAR. — FASH- 
ION AND PREVALENCE OF THE SOHOOL OF GÓNGORA. — EFFORTS 
TO OVERTURN IT BY LOPB DE VEGA, QUEVEDO, AND OTHERS. — 
MEDRANO, ALCAZAR, ARGUIJO, BALVAS. 


A pEcmeEDLY lyric tendency is perceptible in Spanish 
literature from the first. The ballads are full of it, and 
occasionally we find snatches of songs that seem almost 
as old as the earliest ballads. All this, of course, 
belongs to a period so remote and rude, that Pretere 
what it produced was national, because Spain Wie 
had as yet no intercourse with other European countries 
that. drew after it any of their culture and refinement, 
Later, we have seen how the neighboring Provengal 
sometimes gave its measures and tones to the Castilian ; 
and how both, so far as Spain was concerned, were 

















Caar. 31113 FEINAXNDO DE BEREIEA ? 


ercas Dea Jr « Arma ad oo ca the sreribror 
ef SNktastma of Pororal. ta Es disaseoos invasia of 
Añca Both were pubabiy writiea when the mindz ol 
men were evernebere surmmed by the great events that 
called them forth: amd both were fortunately coameciad 
wih those feelings cf loyalty and relision that always 
seemed to spring up together in the minds of the Span 
ish people, and to be cf kindred with all their hishost 
poetical inspirations. 

The first — that on the battle of Lepanto, which eman- 
cipated many thousand Christian captives, and stopped 
the second westward advance of the Crescent —is a lufiy 
and cheerfol hymn of victory, mingliny, to a remarkablo 
degree, the jubilant exultation which breaks forth in the 
Psalms and Prophecies on the conquests of the Jews aver 
their unbelieving enemies, with the feelings of a devuut 
Spaniard at the thought of so decisive an overthrow uf 
the ancient and hated enemy of his faith and country. 
The other, —an ode on the death of Sebastian of Portugal, 
— composed, on the contrary, in a vein of despondeney, 
is still romantic and striking. even more, perhaps, than 
its rival. That unfortunate monarch, who was one of 
the most chivalrous princes that ever sat on a throne in 
Christendom, undertook, in 1578, to follow up the great 
victory of Lepanto by rescuing thé whole of the North 
of Africa from the Moslem yoke, under which it had so 
long groaned, and to restore to their homes the multitudes 
of Christians who were there suffering the most cruel 
servitude. He perished in the generous attempt; hardly 
fifty of his large army returning to recount tho dotaila 
of the fatal battle, in which he himself had disappoarod 
among the heaps of unrecognized slaio. But so fond and 
fervent was the popular admiration, that, for abovo a 
century afterwards, it was believed in Portugal that Don 
Sebastian would still return and resumo tho power which, 
for a time, had both dazzled and deluded the hearta of 
his subjects. 1 


19 There is a book on this subject which count of a pastry-cook of Madrigal, who, 
should not be entirely overlooked in a his- seventeon yuara after the rout in Afrlon, 
tory of Spanish literature. Itis an ao- passed hiwself of lu Bala as Don Nola, 

1* 

















Cmar. XXDE] LEDESMA AND THE CONCEPTISTAS. 15 
Conceits,”? as he called a volume which was first Ledesma 
printed in 1600, and which afterwards appeared nie 
six times during its author's life, are so full of sas. 
quaintnesses and exaggerations as to take from them 
nearly all poetical merit. They are religious, and owed 
their success partly to the preservation of the old familiar 
forms and tones, but more to the perverse ingenuity with 
which they abound, and which they contributed much to 
make fashionable. Indeed, at that time, and very much 
under the leading influence of Ledesma, there was a well- 
known party in Spanish literature called the “'Concep- 
tistas ” ; —a sect composed, in a considerable degree, of 
mystics, who expressed themselves in metaphors and 
puns, alike in the pulpit and in poetry, and whose in- 
fluence was so extensive, that traces of it may be found 
in many of the principal writers of the time, including 
Quevedo and Lope de Vega. Of this school of the Con- 
ceptistas, though Quevedo was the more brilliant master, 
Ledesma was the original head. His “* Monstruo Imagi- 
nado,”” or Fanciful Monster, first printed in 1615, is little 
else than a series of allegories hidden under the quibbles 
that are heaped upon them; beginning with ballads, and . 
ending with the short prose fiction that gives its name to 
the volume. Several of the poems it contains are on the 
death of Philip the Second, and sound very strangely, 
from the irreverence with which that important event is 
treated, both in its political and its religious aspects. 
Others, which are on secular subjects, are in a tone even 
more free; But the little he has left that is worth reading 
is to be sought-in his “Spiritual Conceits,”” where thero 
are a few sonnets and a few lyrical ballads that are not 
likely to be forgotten.* 


£8 Sedano, Parnaso Español, Tom. V. p. 
xl Lope de Vega praises Ledesma 
more than once, unreasonably. His “ Con- 
ceptos,” in the first edition, Madrid, 1600, 
is a small volume of 258 leaves, but I be- 
lieve the subsequent editions contain more 
poems. His “ Juegos de la Noche Buena,” 
Barcelona,1611,Rivadeneyra, Tom. XXV.,) 
is strictly forbidden by the Index Expur- 
gatorius of 1067, p. 64. He also wrote 
“Epigramas y Geroglificos 4 la Vida de 


Christo,” ec., Madrid, 1626, 12mo. One of 
the earlíest, and, I believe, one of the best, 
of the imitators of Ledesma was Alonso 
Bonilla, who is said by Gayangos to havo 
written, notwithstanding his affectations, 
« elegantes y harmoniosos versos.” Anto- 
nio(Bib. Nov., LI. 13) gives tho titles of four 
of his poetical publications, among which 
are his “Nuevo Jardin de Flores divinas,” 
(Baeza, 1617,) chiefy sacred lyrical verse, 
and “ Nombres y Atributos de la Virgen,” 











Cuar. XXIX] LUIS DE GÓNGOBA. 19 


patronizing Count de Lemos,” the good-natured favor of 
the Duke de Lerma and the Marquis de Siete Iglesias, 
and the general reputation of being a wit and a poet. 
At last he was noticed by the all-powerful favorite, the 
Count Duke Olivares, and seemed on the point of obtain- 
ing the fortune for which he had waited and watched so 
long. But at this moment his health failed. He re- 
turned, languishing, to his native city, and died there in 
peace soon afterwards, at the age of sixty-six. 0 
Much of the early poetry of Góngora is in short lines, 

and remarkable for its simplicity. One of his lyrical 
ballads, — beginning, 

“The loveliest maiden 

Our village has known, 

Only yesterday wed, 

To-day, widowed, alone,3— 


contains an admirably natural expression of grief, by a 
young bride to her mother, on the occasion of her hus- 
band's being suddenly called to the wars. Another yet 
more lyrical, — which begins, . 


Ye fresh and soft breezes, 
That now for the spring 
Unfold your bright garlands, 
Sweet violets fling,$— 


is, again, full of gentle tenderness. And so are some of 
his religious popular poems, which occasionally approach 
the character of the old villancicos. 

His odes of the same period are grave and stately. That 
on the Armada, which must'have been written as early 
as 1588, since it contains the most confident predictions 
of a victory over England, is one of the best; and that 
on Saint Hermenegild —a prince, who, in the sixth cen- 


= A bel 

isios y Bicas, Cartas, Tom, 1 $8 La ruso bea pls 
3 Boo his life, by his friend Hozes, pre» eficacia 

fixed to his Works, Madrid, 1654, áto. "Obras de Góngora, 1684, £ 4. 

Bis portrait was paínted by Velasquez, and. 98 Frescos ayrecillos, 

ls now in the Royal Gallery at Madrid. Que 4 Ja primauera 

Btirling's Artista of Spalo, 1848, Vol. XL. Destexele guirnaldas, 

Pp. 587, 688. Y csparcels violetas. a 





























28. CONTEST CONCOERNING CULTISMO, [Prrrop IL. 
spare the extravagances of Góngora's later style; attack- 
ing itin his seventh Epistle; in an amusing sonnet, where 
he represents Boscan and Garcilasso as unable to under- 
stand it; in the poetical contest at the canonization of 
San Isidro; in the verses prefized to the ' Orfeo” of 
Montalvan; and in many other places; but, above all, in 
a long letter to a friend, who had formally asked his judge 
ment on the whole subject.” 

There can be no doubt, then, as to his deliberate opin= 
ion in relation to it.  Indeed, Góngora assailed him with 
great severity for it; and though Lope continued to praise 
the uneasy poet for such of his works as deserved com- 
mendation, the attack on his “cultivated style” was 
never forgiven by Góngora, and a small volume of his 
unpublished verse still shows that his bitterness con- 
tinued to the last," And yet Lope himself not unfre- 
quently fell into the very fault he so sharply and wittily 
reprehended; as may be seen in many of his plays, par- 
ticularly in his “Wise Man in his own House,” where it 
is singularly unsuited to the subject; and in many of his 
poems, especially his “ Circe” and his “ Festival at De- 
nia,” in which, ifthey had not been addressed to courtly 
readers, it can hardly be. doubted that he would have used 
the simple and flowing style most natural to him. 

The affected style of Góngora was attacked by others; 
— by Cascales, the rhetorician, in bis ** Poetical Tables,” 
printed in 1616, and in his * Philological Letters,” printed 
in 1634; % by Jauregui, the poet, in his “* Discourse on the 
Cultivated and Obscure Style,” in 1628;% and by Salas, 
in 1633, in his “Inquiries concerning Tragedy.”% But 


20 Lope de Vega, Obras Sueltas, Tom. L. 
Pp- 271, 342; Tom. XIL. pp. 231-234; 
Tom. XIX. p. 49; and Tom. IV. pp. 
450-482. In the last cited passage, Lope 
says he always placed Fernando de Her- 
Tera as a model before himself. 

6 National Library, Madrid, Estante 
M, Codex 132, 4to. At least, it was there 
111818, at which date 1 su it. 

ss Tablas Poéticas, ed. 1779, p. 103. 
Cart. Phil. Dec. 1. Cart. 8-10. Christ. 
de Salazar Mardones defended Góngora la 


a volume of nearly 400 pages, entitled , 


4 Trustración de la Fabula, ec. de Píramo e 
Tisbé," 1636 (ante, note 43). —Totum nil, 

ss 1 haye never seen this book, but 
Antonio, in. his article on Jauregui, gives 
ita titlo, and Flógel (Gesch. der Komischen 
Literatur, Tom, IL. p. 303) gives the date 
of its publication. Jaureguí, however, ln 
his translotion of the “Pharsalia” of 
Tucan, falls into the false style of Gón= 
gora, Declamación contra los Abusos de 
la Lengua Castellana, 1793, p. 138. 

5% Tragedia Antigua, Madrid, 1639, dto, 
Pp: 84, 86. 





























-86 ESTÉVAN MANUEL DE VILLEGAS. [Penrop IM. 

Another of the followers of the Argensolas —and one 
who boasted that he had trodden in their footsteps from 
the days of his boyhood, when Bartolomé had been 
pointed out to his young admiration in the streets of 
Madrid — was Estévan Manuel de Villegas.* He 
was born at Naxera, in 1596, and was educated 
partly at court and partly at Salamanca, where he stud- 
ied the law. After 1617, and certainly as early as 1626, 
when he was married, he almost entirely abandoned let- 
ters, and gave himself up to such profitable occupations 
connected with his profession as would afford subsistence 
to those dependent on his labors, He, however, found 
leisure to prepare for publication a number of learned 
dissertations on ancient authors; to make considerable 
progress in a professional commentary on the “Codex 
Theodosianus ; ” and to publish, in 1665, as a consola- 
tion for his own sorrows, a translation of Bocthius, 
“which, besides its excellent version of the poetical parts, 
is among the good specimens of Castilian prose. But 
he remained, during his whole life, unpatronized and 
poor, and died in 1669, an unfortunate and unhappy 
man,* 

The gay and poetical part of the life of Villegas — 
the period when he presumptuously announced himself 
as the rising sun, and attacked Cervantes, thinking to 
please the Argensolas*— began very early, and was' 
soon darkened by the cares and troubles of the world. 


Villegas. 


4 This allusion ocenrs ln a satire on the 
culto style of poetry, wot found tn his 
collected works, but in Sedano, (Tom. 1X., 
118, p. $,) where It appeared for the fret 
time, > 


5_An excellent life of Villegas is prefixed 
to the edition of his Works, Madrid, 1774, 
2 tom. Bvo, sald by Guarinos (Biblioteca 
dde Escritores del Reínado de Carlos TIL, 
Madrid, 1785, Svo, Tom. V. p. 10) to have 
been written by Vicente de los Rios. 

5 Tn the edition of his poetry published. 
by himself and at his own expense, in 
1617, 4to, nt Naxera, his birthplace, he 
glves on the title-page a print of the 
rising sun, with the stars growing dim, 
and. two anottoes Lo explain ¡ts meaning : 


the Arst, “Sieut sol matutinus,? and tho 
other, “Me surgente, quid istw?"— the 
ista whom he thus slighte beíng Lope de 
Vega, Quevedo, and indeed the whole 
galaxy of the best period of Spanish lit 
erature. Lope seems to baye been a little 
Annoyed at this impertinence and vanity 
of Villegas y for, in allusion tot, he says, 
in the midst of a passage otherwise lnuda- 
tory, — 

Aunque dixo que todos se escondiesen, 

Quando los rayos de su ingenio viesen. 


Laurel de Apolo, Madrid, 1690, 4, 
Bibva il. 


For the harsh words of Villegas about 
Cervantes, see Navarreto, Vida, $ 128. 














40 FRANCISCO DE BORJA. [Peron TL 
been nourished by wandering among the remains of its 
decaying amphitheatre and fallen palaces, This distinc- 
tion has, however, been contested ; and the ode in ques- 
tion, or rather a part of it, has been claimed for Rodrigo 
Caro, known in his time rather as an antiquarian than as 
a poet, among whose unpublished works a sketch of it is 
found with the date of 1595, which, if genuine, carries 
the general conception, and at least one of the best 
stanzas, back to a period before the birth of Rioja.'* 

Among those who opposed the school of Góngora, 
and perhaps the person who, from his influence in society, 
could best have checked its power, if he had not himself 
oa been sometimes betrayed into its bad taste, was 
Esquilache. Francisco de Borja, Prince of Esquilache. His 
titles — which are, in fact, corruptions of the great names 
borne by the Italian principalities of Borgia and Squillace 
—+etray his origin, and explain some of his tendencies, 
But though, by a strange coincidence, he was great- 
grandson of Pope Alexander the Sixth, and grandson of 
one of the heads of the Order of the Jesuits, he was also 
descended from the old royal family of Aragon, and had 
a faithful Spanish heart. From his high rank, he easily 
found a high place in public affairs. He was distin- 
guished both as a soldier and as a diplomatist; and at 
one time he rose to be viceroy of Peru, and administered 
its affairs during six years with wisdom and success. 

But, like many others of his countrymen, he never 
forgot letters amidst the anxieties of public life; and, in 
fact, found leisure enough to write several volumes of 
poetry. Of these, the best portions are his Iyrical bal- 
lads. His sonnets, too, are good, especially those in a 
gayer vein, and so are his madrigals, which, like thab 
“To a Nightingale,”* are often graceful, and sometimes 


15 The poetry of loja was not published 
úIl near the cnd of the elghtcenth century, 
when lt appeared in the collections of Se- 
dano and Fernandes (o 1774 and 1797. 
"he two odes of Rioja and Caro are print- 
ed together lo the Spanish translation of 
Blsmond's History of Spanish Literature,” 
Sovilla, 1843, in the notes to which is tho 
est aceuunt Lo be found of Kieja. (Tom. 


/ 


TL. p. 118) Rioja, ft may be added, was 
a friend of Lope de Vega, who addressed lo 
him a pleasant poctical epistle on his own. 
Kardon, which was first printed in 1022, 
A notice of the Life and Works of Caro, 
who was bora in 1573 and died in 1647, 
may be found ín the Memorial Historico 0É 
tho Spanish Academy of History, Tóm. La, 
1651, pp. 34%, eto, 





42 REBOLLEDO. 
inclined to the old national measures, and the two others 
to the Italian, None of them, however, is now often re- 
membered.* 

Not so the Count Bernardino de Rebolledo, a gentleman 
of the ancient Castilian stamp, who, though not 
a great poet, is one of those that are still kept in 
the memory and regard of their countrymen. He was 
born at Leon, in 1597, and from the age of fourteen was a 
soldier; serving first against the Turks and the powers of 
Barbary, and afterwards, during the Thirty Years” war, in 
diferent parts of Germany, where, from the Emperor Fer- 
dinand, he received the title of Count. In 1647, when 
peace returned, he was made ambassador to Denmark, and 
lived long in the North, connected, as his poetry often 
proves him to have been, with the Danish court and with 
that of Christina of Sweden, in whose conversion one of 
his letters shows that he bore a part.* From 1662 he 
was a minister of state at Madrid; and when he died, in 
1676, he was burdened with offices of all kinds, and en- 
joyed pensions and salaries to the amount of fifty thou- 
sand ducats a year. 

It is singular that the poetry of a Spaniard should 
have first appeared in the North of Europe. But so it 
was in the case of Count Rebolledo. One volume of his 
works was published at Cologne in 1650, and another at 
Copenhagen in 1655. Each contains lfrical poems, both 
in the national and the Italian forms; and if none of them * 
aro remarkable, many are written with simplicity, and a 
few are beyond the spirit of their time.” 


[Perrop IL 


Rebolledo 


19 “El Fenix Castellano de Ant. de 
Mendosa,? Lisboa, 1090, 4to; “Obras 
Poéticas de Gerónimo Cancer y Velasco,” 
1050, and Madrid, 1761, 4to ; with Latassa, 
Bib. Nueva, Tom. TIL. p. 224 ; “El Enano 
do las Musas de Alvaro Oubillo de Ara- 
gon;” Madrid, 1654, 4to, who was, how- 
ever, ol Granada; and * Obras Varias de 
Fr. Lopes de Zarate, Alcalá, 1661, dto, 
which, after a great deal of worthless 
postey, both in Spanish and Italian mens- 
mres, contaíns, ut the end, his equelly 
worthless tragedy, “Hercules Farens y 
Eta, con todo el rigor del Arte," Zarate, 
However, was much ndmired in his time, 


and a sonnet of his to a Rose was pralsed 
by everybody. Gayangos cites an edition 
of his “ Poesias ” of 1619, which is dedi= 
cated to the Duke of Medina-Sidonia, and 
says that, when Zarate sent this nobleman 
A copy of his poetical works, the Duke re- 
turned him as many golden crowns as the 
volume contained verses. 

19 Obras, Madrid, 1778, 8vo, Tom. L. 
p. 5TL 

20 There ís a notice of Rebolledo, which 
must have been prepared by his own su- 
tbority, in the Preface to his *Ocios,” 
printed at Antwerp, 1050, 15m0 4 but thore 
18 a better life of him in the Af volume of 





















































































































































. a => 


92 INCONGRUITIES OF PASTORAL FICTION, [Peron IL 


dra,* close up the series; —the last bringing us down 
to just about a century from the first appearance of such 
fictions in the time of Montemayor, and all of them in- 
fected with the false taste of the period. Taken to- 
gether, they leave no doubt that pastoral romance was 
the first substitute in Spain for the romances of chivalry, 
and that it inherited no small degree of their popularity. 
Most of the works we have noticed were several times 
reprinted, and the “ Diana” of Montemayor, the first 
and best of them all, was probably more read in Spain 
during the sixteenth century than any Spanish work ot 
amusement except the * Celestina.” 

All this seems remarkable and strange, when we con- 
sider only the absurdities and inconsequences with which 
such fictions necessarily abound. But there is another 
side to the question, which should not be overlooked. 

e Pastoral romance, after all, has its foundation in 
of pastoral ONG of the truest and deepest principles of our 
common nature, — that love of rural beauty, of 
rural peace, in short, of whatever goes to constitute a 
country life, as distinguished from the constrained life of 
a city, which few are too dull to feel, and fewer still so 
artificial as wholly to reject. It has, therefore, prevailed 
more or less in all modern countries, as we may see in 
Italy, from the success that followed Sannazaro; in 
Franco, from the “ Astrea” of Durfé; and in England, 
from the “ Arcadia ” of Sir Philip Sidney ; —the two lat- 
ter being pastoral romances of enormous length, compared 
with any in Spanish; and the very last enjoying for 
above a century a popularity which may well be compared 
with that of the “ Diana ”” of Montemayor, if, indeed, i$ 
did not equal it, 


208 lenves, I know of no other edition. dova. His style is affected. In my copy, 
Me lived ln Rome from 1630 to 1632, and which in the colophon ls dated 1634, there 
probably longer. (Antonio, Bib. Nova, - are, as a separate tract, four Jeaves of re- 
Tom. L p. 505) He is Gongoresque in his ligioos and moral adyice to the authors 
style, as is Quintana. son, when he was golng ns governor to one 
3 “Los Pastores del Betis, por Gon= of the provinees ol Naples ; better written: 
snlvo de Saavedra” Trani, 1033, 4to, pp. than the romance that precedes it. 
280, 11 seems to have been written io 39 Portugal might have been added. 
Ttaly ¿ but we know nothing of its author, The “ Menina é Moca ” of Bernardino Ri» 
“except ihat he was a Veintiquatro of Cór- beyro, printed in 1657, is a beantiful frog» 


Á 


BE ha 




















98 GUZMAN DE ALFARACHE. [Perro IL. 


possessors, as they came home with their tempting bur- 
dens, and found ready means to profit by the golden 
shower that fell on all sides, with -a profusion which car- 
ried an unhealthy action through every division of society. 
Little, however, could be obtained by men so humble and 

in a position so false, except by the arts of cunning and 
flattery. Cunning and flattery, therefore, were soon called 
forth among them in great abundance. The wealth of the 
Indies was a rich compost, that brought up parasites and 
rogues with other noxious weeds; and Panl, the son of 
a barber, and nephew of a hangman; Cortadillo, a young 
thief, whose father was a village tailor; and Little Laza- 
rus, who could never settle his genealogy to.his own sat- 
isfaction, became, in the literature of their country, the 
permanent representatives of their class; —a class well 
known under the degrading name of the Catariberas,? or 
the gayer one of Pícaros. 

The first instance of a fiction founded on this state of 
things was, as we have already seen, the ** Lazarillo de 
Jararillo.  Tórmes?? of Mendoza, which was published as 
de Tórmes; early as 1553; a bold, unfinished sketch of the 
life of a rogue, from the very lowest condition in society. 
This was followed, forty-six years afterwards, by the 
Mateo “Guzman de Alfarache ” of Mateo Aleman, the 
Alemao. — most ample portraiture of the class to which it 
belongs that is to be found in Spanish literature. What 
induced Aleman to write it we do not know. Indeed, we 
know little about him, except that he was a native of 
Seville, and wrote three or four other works of less con- 
sequence than this tale; that he was long employed in the 
treasury department of the government, and subjected to 
a vexatious suit at law in consequence of it; and that at 


2 For these low, vagabond attorneys, or how to obtain it, “Vere affermare possn= 
Jackals ol attorneys, —the Cafariberas, — mus,” he says, “mundum noyum quodam- 
se ante, Vol. 1. pp. 478, 479, note. The modo perdidisse mundum veterem ; *— 
effect of the wealth of the Indies ín cor- adding, that men gave up everything for 
rupting the manners of the Spanish peo- American gold, — “manoipantes seipsos 
ple, und especially those of the middling  fertilitati pecunias et divitam domibus.” 
and lower classes, is noticed by Campa- Th. Campanellm de Monarchia Hispanica 
nella in his remarkable discourse written Discursus, Ed. Elzevir, 1640, cap. 18, Pp» 
du prison to persuade Philip IV. to strive 170, 171. 























y A 
106 [Pxriop IL. 


and dignified style of the elder times, and, from mere ca- 
price, undertook to invent a new one.* 

But though the Pícara Justina” proyed a failure, the 
overwhelming popularity of “Guzman de Alfarache,?? 
when added to that of ** Lazarillo,” rendered this form of 
fiction so generally welcome in Spain, that it made its way 
into the ductile drama, and into the style of the shorter 
tales, as we have already seen when treating of Lope de 
Vega and Cervantes, and as we shall see hereafter when 
we come to speak of Salas Barbadillo and Francisco de 
Santos. Meantime, however, the ““ Escudero Marcos de 
Obregon” appeared; a work which has, on many ae- 
counts, attracted attention, and which deserves to be 
remembered, as the best of its kind in Spanish literature, 
except “ Lazarillo * and “Guzman.” 

lt was written by Vicente Espinel, who was borh, prob- 
vicente Ably in 1551, at Ronda, a romantic town, boldly 
Fspisel. —— built in the mountain range that stretches through 
the southwestern portion of the kingdom of Granada, and 
strikingly described by himself in one of the most happy 
of his poems. He was educated at Salamanca, and, 
when Lope de Vega appeared as a poet before the public, 
Espinel was already so far advanced in his own career, 
that the young aspirant for public favor submitted his 
verses to the critical skill of his elder friend ;%—a favor 


MARCOS DE OBREGON. 


14 The first edition of the “Pícara Jus- 
tina" is that of Medina del Campo, 1605, 
4to, since which time it has been often 
printed; the best edition being probably 
that of Madrid, 1735, 4to, edited by Maz 
yans y Siscar, who, in a prefatory notice, 
makes the reprosch against its author, as 
the oldest corrupter of the Spanish prose 
style, alluded to ín the text. Thereisa 
good deal of poetry scattered through the 
volume; all very conceited and poor. 
Bome of it is ín that sort of verses from 
which the final syllable is cut off, —such 
verses, I mean, as Cervantes has prefixed 
to the first part of Don Quixote; and as 
both that part and the “* Picara Justina ” 
were originally published ín the same 
year, 1606, some question has arisen with 
Pellicer and Clemencio, who is the inven- 
tor of these poor, truncated verses. Le jeu 
ne vaut pas la chandelle. But, as the 


“first part of Don Quixote, according to the 
Fassa prefixed to il, was struok of as 
early as the 20€h of December, 1604, thongh 
the fall copyright was not granted till the 
Sth of February following, there can be 
little doubt that Oervantes was the earliest, 

15 See the “Cancion 4 su Patria,” which 
is creditable alike to his personal feelings 
and — with tho exception of a few foolisb 
conceits —to his poctical character, Di- 
versas Himas de V. Espinel, Madrid, 1601, 
12mo, f. 23, But Espinel seems now to be 
wholly forgotten in the city and nelghbor- 
hood he so much loved. An English gen- 
tleman in 1849 asked there diligentiy for 
his Marcos de Obregon, and the people did 
not know whether he wanted “a man ora 
hook.” W, G, Clarke, Gazpacho, London, 
1850, p. 199. 

15 EspinePs own Prólogo to “ Marcos de 
Obregon.” 




















Cuap. XXXIV.] ESTEVANILLO GONZALEZ. 113 


lez, the Good-natured Fellow,” and gives an account of 
his travels all over Europe, and of his adventures as 
courier, cook, and valet of the different distinguished 
masters whom he at different times served, from the king 
of Poland down to the Duke of Ossuna. Nothing can 
exceed the coolness with which he exhibits himself as a 
liar by profession, a constitutional coward, and an accom- 
plished cheat, whenever he can thus render his story more 
amusing ; — but then, on the other hand, he is not with- 
out learning, writes gay verses,'and gives us sketches of 
his times and of the great men to whom he was succes- 
sively attached, that are anything but dull. His life, 
indeed, would be worth reading, if it were only to com- 
pare his account of the battle of Nordlingen with that in 
De Foe's “ Cavalier,” and his drawing of Ottavio Picco- 
lomini with the stately portrait of the same personage in 
Schiller's “* Wallenstein.” Its faults, on the other hand, 
are a vain display of his knowledge ; occasional attempts 
at grandeur and eloquence of style, which never succeed ; 
and numberless intolerable puns. Butit shows distinctly, 
what we have already noticed, that the whole class of 
fictions to which it belongs had its foundation in the man- 
ners and society of Spain at the period when they 
appeared, and that to this they owed, not only their suc- 
cess at home, in the age of Philip the Third and Philip the 
Fourth, but that success abroad which subsequently pro- 
duced the Gil Blas of Le Sage, —an imitation more 
brilliant than any of the originals it followed. 









































128 


SMALL AMOUNT OF SERIOUS FICTION. [Pxriop IL 


After all, however, the serious and historical fictions 


Failure of 
serious 
£ction. 


« Civil Wars of Granada,” 


produced in Spain, that merit the name of full- 
length romances, were, from the first, few in' 
number, and, with the exception of Hita's 


deserved little favor. Sub- 


sequent to the reign of Philip the Fourth, they almost 
disappeared for above a century; and even at the end 
of that period, they occurred rarely, and obtained little 


regard, 2 


conception, whose annunciation by the 
Madonna ís described with dramatic effect 
in Lib. I. c. 10. The earllest edition 1 
have seen noticed is of 1667. 

1 The only grave romance of this class, 
after 1650, that nceds, I believe, to be 
referred to, ís “La Historia de Lisseno y 
Fenisa, por Francisco Parraga Martel de la 
Fuente)? (Madrid, 1701, 4to,) —a very 
bad imitation of the “Gerardo Español ” 
of Céspedes y Meneses. Perhaps I should 
also mention an unfinished romance, en- 


titled “ Engaños y Desengaños del profano 
Amor,” written ín Cagliari in Sardinia 
about 1686, by Don Joseph Zatrilla y Vico, 
Count of Villasalto, etc. ; but 1t is quite 
without value, though it ls in a better 
style than was then common. lt is in- 
tended as a religious warning agalost 
Icentious paselon, 1 know lt only in the 
edition of Barcelona, 1787, áto, pp. 891, 
but I think it was originally printed a 
two volumes. 



























































148 MARCOS GARCIA. —SANTOS. [Peron 1L 
nary, but popular personage, whose arms, according to 
an old Spanish proverb, fell ont of their sockets from the 
mere lisilessness of their owner. Itis a vision, in which 
women-servants who spend their lives in active cheating, 
students pressing vigorously forward to become quacks 
aud pettifoggers, spendthrift soldiers, and similar un- 
easy, unprincipled persons of other conditions, are con- 

-trasted with those who, trusting to a quiet disposition, 
float noiselessly down the current of life, aud succeed 
without an effort and without knowing how they do it. 
The general allegory is meagre ; but some of the individ- 
ual sketches are well imagined.* 

The person, however, who, in the latter part of the 
seventeenth century, succeeded best in this style of com- 
Francisco Position, as well as in tales of other kinds, was 
Santos. —— Francisco Santos, a native of Madrid, who died 
not far from the year 1700, Between 1663 and 1697 he 
gave to the world sixteen volumes of different kinds of 
works for popular amusement ;— generally short stories, 
but some of them encumbered with allegorical personages 
and tedious moral discussions, The oldest of the series, 
“Dia y Noche en Madrid,” or, as it may be translated, 
Life in Madrid, though a mere fiction founded on man- 
ners, is divided into what the author terms Eighteen Dis- 
courses. Itopens, as such Spanish tales are too apt to 
open, somewhat pompously; the first scene describing 


4% Marcos Garcia, “La Flema de Pedro 
Hernandez, Discurso Moral y Politico,” 
Madrid, 1657, l2mo. The author was a 
gurgeon of Madrid, and wrote “Honor de 
la Medicina” and another, “ Papelillo,” 
without his name, which he mentions in 
his Prólogo. (Antonio, Bib. Nov., Tom. 
IL p.83,) Heshows, at tie begíoning of 
his “Flema,” tbat he means to imitate 
Quevedo; hut he has a good deal of cul- 
tíemo in his style, For the meaning of 
MU Flema," see Covarrubias, ad verb.— Ono 
more trifle may here be mentioned; the 
4 pesengaño del Hombre en el Tribunal de 
la Fortuna y Casa de Descontentos, ideado 
por Don Juan Martinez de Cuellar,” 1663. 
Ir isa vision, in which the author goes to 
the house of * Desangañoy” — that peca= 
larly Castilian word, which may here be 


translated Druth, Ho is led afterwards to 
the palace and tribunal of Fortune, where 
he is disabused of his errors concerning all 
earthly good. Phe fiction la oflittle worth, 
and the style is that of the school of Gón- 
gora. A more complete specimen ol Gón- 
gorism may, howover, be found in a talo 
entitled “Firmeza en los Imposibles £ 
Fineza en los Desprecios ; escrivialo Don 
Baltasar Altamirano y Portocarrero,” 
(Qaragoga, 1646, 12m0,) —a story founded. 
on the rutliless coquetry of the heroine 
and the impertorbable constaney of the 
hero, who at last secks death in a naval 
battle with the French. 

4 Alvaren y Bacna, Hijos de Madrid, 
om. IL, p. 216. There is a conrse edi- 
tion of the works of Santos, ln 4 tom. to, 
Madrid, 1723. 








150 SANTOS. [Paco IL. 


He, however, vindicates his innocence, and, being re- 
leased from the fangs of justice, returns, weary of the 
world, to his first home, where he leads an ascetic life ; 
makes long, pedantic discourses on virtue to his admiring 
townsmen; and proves, in fact, a sort of humble philoso- 
pher, growing constantly more and more devout till the 
account of him ends at last with a prayer. The whole is 
interesting among Spanish works of fiction, because it is 
evidently written both in imitation of the picaresque nov- 
els and in opposition to them ; since Periquillo, from. the 
lowest origin, gets on by neither roguery nor cleverness, 
but by honesty and good faith; and, instead of rising in 
the world and becoming rich and courtly, settles pa- 
tiently down into a village hermit, or a sort of poor 
Obhristian Diogenes. No doubt, he has neither the wit 
nor the cunning of Lazarillo; but that he should venture 
to encounter that shrewd little beggar in any way makes 
Periquillo, at once, a personage of some consequence.** 

Yet one more of the works of Santos should be noticed ; 
an allegorical tale, called “Truth on the Rack, or the Cid 
come to Life again.” Its general story is, that Truth, in 
the form of a fair woman, is placed on the rack, surround- 
ed by the Cid and other forms, that rise from the earth 
abont the scaffold on which she is tormented. There she 
is forced to give an account of things as they really exist, 
or have existed, and to discourse concerning shadowy mul- 
titudes, who pass, in sight of the company that surrounds 
her, over what seems to be a long bridge. The whole is, 
therefore, a satire in the form of a vision, but its character 
is consistently sustained only at the beginning and the 
end. The Cid, however, is much the same personage 
throughout, — bold, rough, and free-spoken. He is heart- 
ily dissatisfied with everything he finds on earth, espe- 
cially with the popular traditions and ballads about him- 
self, and goes back to his grave well pleased to escape 
from such a world, “which,” he says, “if they would give 
it-to me to live in, 1 would not accept.” * 


48 “ Periquillo, él de las Gallineras,”” he was employed to take care of chick= 
Madrid, 1068, l2m0. He gets his mme ens. 
from the circumstance, that, as a child, — 4% “EL Verdad en el Potro y el Old 


ka E 








152 GREAT NUMBER OF TALES IN SPANISH. [Prrtoo IL. 
But though the number we have gone over is large for the 
length of tho period in which they appeared, not a few 
Vastaum- Others might be added. The pastoral romances 
Jerol from the time of Montemayor are full of them; 

— the * Galatea ” of Cervantes, and the ** Arca- 
dia” of Lope de Vega, being little more than a series of 
such stories, slightly bound together by yet another that 
connects them all. So are, to a certain degree, the pica- 
resque fictions, like “Guzman de Alfarache ” and ** Marcos 
de Obregon;” —and so are such serious fictions as “The 
Wars of Granada” and “ The Spanish Gerardo.” The 
popular drama, too, was near akin to the whole; as we 
have seen in the case of Timoneda, whose stories, before 
he produced them as tales, had already been exhibited in 
the form of farces on the rude stage of the public squares ; 
and in the case of Cervantes, who not only put part of bis 
tale of “* The Captive”” in “ Don Quixote”” into his second 
play of * Life in Algiers,” but constructed his story of 
““The Liberal Lover” almost wholly out of his earlier 
play on the same subject. Indeed, Spain, during the pe- 
riod we have gone over, was full of the spirit of this class 
of fictions, —not only producing them in great numbers, 
and strongly marked with the popular character, but car- 
tying their tone into the longer romances and upon the 
stage to a degree quite unknown elsewhere.4 


more so. Ás we approach the end of the 
century, not one, Í think, is free from it. 


Montalvan, Santos, and Salas Barbadillo, 
but a little too long. 


Mad. d"Aulnoy, however, who was a 
Spaín in 1079-30, and who certainiy was 
a good judge in such matters, admired 
them very much. “Lon doit convenir," 
she says, when speaking of the Spantards 
and tele novetas, “qu'ils ont un génis 
particalier pour ees sortes douyrages." 
(Voyage, Tom. TIL p. 117.) And she 
promises to send home to her friends in 
Trance specimens of these charming tales, 
he truth ís, she had alreudy done lt. In 
her fourth letter, at the end of her first 
volume, the story of the Marchioness de 
Tos Rios is a mere fiction in the Spanish 
manner; and, afterwards, ín 1692, she 
printed four other stories, under the title 
*Historie nouvelle de la. Courd'Espague "| 
—very good imitations of the novetas ol 


2. 


5 Italy ls the only country that can 
enter into competition with Spain in the 
department of tales during the sixteeuth 
And seventeenth centarics.  Indeed, 1 ara 
not certain, considering the short period. 
(a little more than a century) duriog wleh 
Bpanish tales were: fhshionable, that as 
many ín proportion were not produced as 
were produced of Italian tales in ltaly 
during the long period — four centaries 
and a hal(— io which they have now been 
prevalent there. And if, to the Spanish 
tales found in books professing and not 
professing to be collections of them, we 
gdd the thousands used up in Spanish 
dramas, to which the elder Italian ihentra 
offers no counterpart, 1 suppose there can 
hardiy be a doubt that there are really 





154 THEIR EARLY SUCCESS AND FAILURE. — [Perrop IL 


and the example of his rivals, could do no better than 
bring out upon the stage of Paris nearly every one of the 
tales of Cervantes, and many of those of Cervantes's rivals 


and contemporaries.' 


+ But civilization and manners advanced in the rest of 
They tau. Europe rapidly from this moment, and paused in 
sarly. Spain. Madrid, instead of sending its influences 
to France, began itself to acknowledge the control of 
French literature and refinement. The creative spirit, 
therefore, ceased in Spanish romantic fiction, and, as we 
shall presently see, a spirit of French imitation took its 


place. . 


56 Pulbusque, Histolre Comparée, Tom. 
IL. o.3. 

56 A collection of Spanish stories and 
tales of different kinds, all of which, I 
believe, have been noticed in this History, 


may be found ín Volume XXXIII of 
Ribadeneyra's Biblioteca, 1854, with a 
good historical and critical essay on this 
style of writing by Eustaquio Fernandez 
de Navarrete. 





CHAPTER XXXVII. 


ELOQUENCE, FORENSIC AND PULPIT. —LUIS DE LEON. —LUIS DE 
GRANADA. —PARAVICINO AND THE SCHOOL OF BAD TASTE. — EPIS- 
TOLARY CORRESPONDENCE — ZURITA. — PEREZ. — SANTA TERESA. 
— ARGENSOLA. — LOPE DE VEGA. — QUEVEDO. — CASCALES. — 
ANTONIO. — SOLÍ8. 


We shall hardly look for forensic or deliberative elo- 
quence in Spain. The whole constitution of things there, 
the political and ecclesiastical institutions of the country, 
and, perhaps we should add, the very genius of the peo- 
ple, were unfriendly to the growth of a plant like this, 
which flourishes only in the soil of freedom.! 

The Spanish tribunals, in the fifteenth and sixteenth 
centuries, whether in the ordinary course of their rorensio 
administration of justice, or in the dark proceed- *loquenoe. 
ings of the Inquisition, took less cognizance of the influ- 
ences of eloquence than those of any other Christian coun- 
try of modern times. 'They dealt with the wheel and the 
fagot, — not with the spirit of persuasion. Nor was this 
spirit truly known or favored in the political assemblies 
of the kingdom, though it. was not supplanted there by, 
the formidable instruments familiar in the courts of jus- 
tice. In the'ancient Cortes of Castile, and still more in 
those of Aragon, there may have been discussions which 
were raised by their fervor to something like what we 
now call deliberative 'eloquence. We have, in fact, inti- 
mations of such discussions ip the old chronicles; espe- 

1 A person calling himself Don Gabriel. government as under another, — under a 
Garcia Caballero published at Madrid, in despotism as under a rephblic. The doo- 
1770, a pampbhlet entitled “ Discurso sobre  trine was fitted to the latitude in which 1t 
la Eloquencia del Boro,” la which he denied was taught, but no eloquence appeared in 
all the old teachings of Cicero and Quin- Spgin till the Cortes were revived after tho 


tilian, and mairitained that eloquence can French came. 
be as well cultivated under one form of 





156 TFORENSIC AND PULPIT ELOQUENOE. — [Perrop IL. 


cially in those that record the troubles and violence of the 
great nobles in the reigns of John the Second and Henry 
the Fourth, But a free, living debate on a great political 
principle, or on the conduct of those who managed the 
affairs of the conntry, — such a debate as sometimes shook 
the popular assemblies of antiquity, and in modern times 
has often controlled the destinies of Christendom, — was, 
in Spain, a thing absolutely unknown. 

Even the grave and dry discussions to which the pres- 
sure of affairs gave rise, were rare and accidental. There 
was no training for them ; and they could be followed by 
none of the great practical results that are at once the 
only sufficient motive and reward that can make them 
enter freely into the institutions of a state. Indeed, what- 
ever there was of discussion in any open assembly could 
occur only in the earlier period of the monarchy, when the 
language and culture of the nation were still too little ad- 
vanced to produce specimens of careful debate; for from 
the time of Ferdinand and Isabella and the days of the Co- 
munidades, the Cortes were gradually restrained in their 
privileges, until at last they ceased to be anything but a 
part of the pageantry of the empire, and served only to 
record the laws they should themselves have discussed 
and modelled. From this period, all opportunity for the 
growth of political eloquence in Spain was lost. It would 
have been no more tolerated by one of the Philips than 
Lutheranism. 

The eloquence of the pulpit was checked by similar 

mn causes, but in a different way. The Catholic re- 
eloquence  ligion has maintained in Spain, down to a late 
period, more than it has in any other country, the charac- 
ter it had during the Middle Ages. It has been to an ex- 
traordinary degree a religion of mysteries, of forms, and 
of penance; —a religion, therefore, in which such modes 
of moving the understanding and the heart as have pre- 
vailed in France and England since the middle of the sev- 
enteenth century have been rarely attempted, and never 
with great success. 

If any exception is to be made to this remark, it must 
be made in the case of Luis de Leon and in that of Luis 

















162 EPISTOLARY CORRESPONDENCE. — [Peron 
Turning now to Spanish epistolary correspondence, we 
find little that requires notice as a portion of the 
Ed elegant literature of the country. The heartiness 
ha of a simpler age gives, indeed, a charm to such 
letters as those which claim to have been written by Cib- 
dareal, and in a less degree to those of Pulgar and Diego 
de Valera. Later, the despatches of Columbus, in which 
he made known to the world his vast discoveries, are 0c- 
casionally marked by the fervor of an enthusiasm inspired 
by bis great subject; and those of his queen and patron, 
though few in number and less interesting, are quite as 
characteristic and quite as true-hearted. 

But, with the stately court brought from the North by 
Charles the Fifth, all this was changed, Added forms, 
and more than the old national gravity, passed into the 
intercourse of social life, and infected the style of the' 
commonest correspondence. Graceful familiarity disap- 
peared from the letters of friends, and even private affec- 
tions and feelings were either seldom expressed, or were 
so covered up as to be with difficulty recognized. Thus, 
what was most valued in this department at the time, 
and fora century afterwards, were Guevara's 
*“* Golden Epistles,”? which are only formal dis- 
sertations, and the “Epistles”” of Avila, which are ser- 
mons in disguise, that moved the hearts of his country- 
men because they were such earnest exhortations to a 
religious life.? 


Guevara. 


Floquence as an art, — “Filosofia. de la 
Xloquencia,” $yo, Madrid, 1776, and Lon- 
don, 1812, 

Capmany, to whom we are indebted, 
besides his literary works, for scveral 
works in History and Politics, was born at 
Barcelona ín 1743, and died in 1818, See 
Fallecimiento de D, Antonio Oapmany y 
Montpalau, Madrid, 1815, pp. 23. 

7 These writers haye all been mentioned 
tarlier, (ses anto, Vol. L. pp. 356, 1L. 17, 
etc..) except Queen Isabella, whose letters 
are bestfound ín Clemencio's excellent work 
on her character and times, filling te sixth 
volume of the “Memorias de la Academia 
de la Historia.” They are addressed to 
her coufessor, Hernando de Talavera, and 
etrongly illustrate both her prudence and 
her submission lo ecclesiastical influenoes. 


(Seo pp. 361-353.) Several letters ad- 
dressed to Columbus, and marked with her 
spirit rather than that of her husband, 
though signed by both of them, may be 
seen in the second volume ol Navarrete, 
(Viages, elc.,) which is rich in such cu- 
rious documents, 

Juan de Yacíar, a Biscayan, published, 
in 1560, a sort of complete letter-writer, 
which he dedicated to tbe well-known 
Prines of Eboli, at whose request il was 
prepared. It seems, from Stirling m0- 
count of it, to have been a curious hook ; 
but T never saw it, and do not suppose thak 
lt had so much influence on Jetter-writing 
in Spain as Guevarw's Golden Epistles, 
published (hirty years before, Artists ou 
Spuin, 1848, Vol. ILL. p. 1341. 





164 ANTONIO PEREZ. [Prnrop TL. 


love of intrigue and adventure, which seemed to be a part 
of his nature. At last, in 1578, at the command of his 
master, he not unwillingly brought about the murder of 
Escovedo, a person high in the confidence of Don John 
of Austria, whose growing influence it was thought worth. 
while thus to destroy ;—a crime which, perpetrated as 
it was in consequence of the official connection of the 
secretary with the monarch, brought Perez to the very 
height of his favor. 

But it was not long before the guilty agent became as 
unwelcome to his guilty master as their victim had been. 
A change in their relations followed, Cautionsly brought 
on by the unscrupulous king, but deep and fatal. At 
first, Philip, whose murder of Montigny had made him 
an adept-in crime, permitted Perez to be pursued by the 
kinsmen of the murdered man, and afterwards, contriving 
plausible pretexts for hiding his motives, began himself 
to join in the persecution. Eleven long years the wretch- 
ed courtier was watched, vexed, and imprisoned at Ma- 
drid; and once, at least, he was subjected to cruel bodily 
tortures. When he could endure this no longer, he fled 
to Aragon, the kingdom from which his family originated, 
whose freer political constitution did not permit him to be 
crushed in secret. This was a great surprise to Philip, 
aud, for an instant, seems to have disconcerted his dark 
schemes. But his resources were equal to the emer- 
gency. He pursued Perez to Saragossa, and, finding the 
regular means of justice unequal to the demands of his 
vengeance, caused his victim to be seized by the Inquisi- 
tion, under the absurd charge of heresy, But this, again, 
in the form in which Philip found it necessary to proceed, 
was a violation of the ancient privileges of the kingdom, 
aud the people broke out in open rebellion, and released 
Perez from prison;-—a consequence of his measures, 
which, perhaps, was neither unforeseen by Philip nor un- 
welcome, to him. At any rate, he immediately sent an 
army into Aragon, sufficient not only to overwhelm all 
open resistance, but to strike a terror that should prevent 
future opposition to his will; and the result, besides a 
vast number of rich confiscations to the royal treasury, 








166 ANTONIO PEREZ [PexioD IM. 
. 

Four years later, the Inquisition, which had caused him 
to be burnt in efigy as a heretic, reluctantly did him the. 
imperfect justice of removing their anathemas from his 
memory, and thus permitted his children to enter into 
civil rights, of which nothing but the most shameless vio- 
lence had ever deprived them. 

From the time of his first imprisonment, Perez began to 
write the letters that are still extant; and their series 
never stops till we approach the period of his death. 
Some of them are to his wife and children ; others, to Gil 
de Mesa, his confidential friend and agent; and others, to 
persons high in place, from whose influence he hoped to 
gain favor. His Narratives, or “ Relations,” as he calls 
them, and his *“* Memorial ”* on his own case, occasionally 
involve other letters, and are themselves in the nature of 
long epistles, written with great talent and still greater 
ingemuity, to gain the favor of his judges or of the 
world. All these, some of which his position forbade 
him ever to send to the persons to whom they were ad- 
dressed, he carefully preserved, and during his exile pub- 
lished them from time to time to suit his own political 
purposes ; —at first anonymously, or under the assumed 
name of Raphael Peregrino; afterwards under the seem- 
ing editorship of his friend Mesa; and finally, without 
disguise of any sort, dedicating them to Henry the 
Fourth, and to the Pope. 

Their number is large, amounting in the most ample 
collection to above a thousand pages. The best are those 
that are most familiar ; for even in the slightest of them, as 
when he is sending a present of gloves to Lady Rich,% or 
a few new-fashioned toothpicks to the Duke of Mayenne, 
there is a nice preservation of the Castilian proprieties of 
expression, Many of them sparkle with genius; some- 
times most unexpectedly, though not always in good taste. 
Thus, to his innocent wife, shamefully kept in prison dur- 
ing his exile, he says: *' Though you are not allowed to 
write to me, or to enjoy what to the absént is the breath 
of life; yet here [in France] there is no punishment for 


1 This is the Lady Rich so much connected with the disappointments and sorrowa 
of Bir Philip Sidney life. 

















_— Y 


168 SANTA TERESA. [Pxurob 1L 
The letters of Santa Teresa, who was a contemporary 
Santa of the secretary of Philip the Second, and died 


in 1582, are entirely diflerent ; for while nothing 
can be more practical and worldly than those of Perez, 
the letters of the devout nun are entirely spiritual. She 
believed herself to be inspired, and therefore wrote with 
an air of authority, which is almost-always solemn and im- 
posing, but which sometimes, through its very boldness 
and freedom from all restraint, becomes easy and graceful. 
Her talents were versatile and her perceptions acute. To 
each of her many correspondents she says something that 
seems suited to the occasion on which she is consulted ;— 
a task not easy for a nun who lived forty-seven years in 
retirement from the world, and during that time was called 
upon to give advice to archbishops and bishops, to wise 
and able statesmen like Diego de Mendoza, to men of 
genius like Luis de Granada, to persons in private life who 
were in deep aflliction or in great danger, and to women 
in the ordinary ¿ourse of their daily lives. Her letters fill 
four volumes, and though, in general, they are only to be 
regarded as fervent exhortations or religious teachings, 


as they are commonly called, were printed 
agaín, but with momerous changes and 
additions, at Paris, in 1608, dto, pp. 310, 
besides the prefatory and supplementary 
alter, among which last are letters of 
Peren, eto. At this time, however, belog 
ln France, he dedicates his volume to 
Henry IV. ; but in my copy, with a sepa= 
rate pagination, is also a dedication to the 
Pope sad the College of Cardinals, which 
was, no doubt, intended to-go (instead of 
he one to Henry IV.) in the copies sent to 
Bome. Indecd, Peres seems to have al= 
ways published his works with changes to 
sult the place and tho time where they 
appcared ; but the most complete collection 
ls that of Geneva, 1054, 12mo, pp. 1126. 
His life ds admirabiy discussed by M. 
Mignet, lu his “Antonio Perez et Phi- 
lippe TL” (2do édit, Paris, 1840). The 
work of Salvador Bermudez de Castro, 
entitled “ Antonio Perez, Estudios Histori- 
cos." (Madrid, 1841, 8vo,) would be better 
11 the author had not permitted himself to 
iudulge in fetions, such as ballad poetry, 
which he calis the poetry of Perez, and 
which he gives us part of the means Perez 


used to stir up the people of Saragossa. 
he lives of Perez ía Buena (Fom. L, 1789, 
p. 121) and Latassa (Bib, Nov, Tom. IL, 
1799, y. 108) show how afraid men of lettera 


ing aphorisms, wbich have been 
times printed. There are many MS. 
terá of Porez at thé Hagno and elsewhero, 
referred to by Migoet, and there ls 


in Llorente, Tom. TIL. pp. 316375. 


























116 RIBADENEYRA.—SIGUENZA.—MARIANA. [Pruon IL 
ecclesiastical history, and entered into the religious dis- 
Ribadeo  Cussions of their time, were, perhaps, originally 
Se the most prominent. Ribadeneyra, one of the 
early and efficient members of the Society of Jesuits, dis- 
tinguished himself by his “* History of the Schism in the 
English Church,” in the time of Henry the Eighth, and 
by his '* Lives of the Saints.” Siguenza, who 
Se as a disciple of St. Jerome, was no less faithfal 
to the brotherhood by whom he was adopted and honored, 
as his life of their founder and his history of their Order 
abundantly prove, Both were men of uncommon gifts, 
and wrote with a manly and noble eloquence ; the first 
with more richness and fervor, the last with a more sim- 
ple dignity, but each with the earnest and trusting spirit 
of his peculiar faith.*  * 
From the nature of their subjects, however, neither 
of them rose to be the great historian of his country ;— 


Mariana 


an honor which belongs to Juan de Mariana, a 
foundling, who was born at Talavera in 1536, 


and whose extraordinary talents attracted the attention 
of the Jesnits, then fast advancing into notice as a relig- 


$ Pedro de Ribadeneyra, who died, aged 
84, in 1611, and for whom a beautiful epi- 
tap was composed by Mariana, wrote 
several works In honor of his Company, 
and several ascetie works, besides his 
“ Clsma de Inglaterra,” (Barcelona, 1589,) 
and his “ Flos Sanctorum,” Madrid, 1599 
1601, 2 tom. folio. The first is very un- 
fair, but the subject was tempting to a 
Spanish Catholic, just as the Armada was 
fitting out; and, besides, the persecutiona 
of Elizabeth were suficient to justify a 
stern rebuke. The books popularity shows 
£hat lt was well timed. Three editions of 
itappeared ín 1688. His “ Tratado de la 
Religion,” dedicated to Philip IL ín 1595, 
and intended na an answer to Machía- 
velll's “ Principe” contains eloquent pas- 
sages, but lackes the acuteness and power 
needful for encountering an adversary 50 
formidable by his severe strength. 

José de Siguenza, who was born in 1546, 
and died in 1606, as Prior of the Escorinl, 
— whose construction he wwitoessed and 
described, — published. his “Vida de San 
Gerónimo,” ín Madrid, 1695, 4to, and his 
4 Historin de la Orden de San Gerónimo,” 


(Madrid, 1600 - 1606, tom., folio, continued 
by Francisco de los Santos, 1680, folio.) 
He was persecuted by the Inquisition, 
Llorente, Hist, de PInquisition, Tom. II., 
1617, p. 474. 

It would be easy to add to these two 
writera on ecclesiastical history the names 
of many more. Hardly a convent ora 
saint of any note in Spaia, during the six- 
teenth and seventeenth centuries, faíled of 
especial comememoration ; and each of the 
religious orders and great cathedrals had 
at least one historian, and most of thera 
several. The number of books on Spanish 
ecoleelastical history to be found in the list 
at the end of the second volume of An- 
tonlo's Biblictheca Nova is, therefore, one 
that may well be called enormons. Some 
of them, too, like the History of the Order 
of St. Benedict, by Yepes, and several of 
the historiea of those orders that were both 
knightly and religious, are of no líttle im- 
portance for the facts and documents with 
which they are crowded. But nearly all 
of them are heavy, monkish annals, and 
not one, I believe, has literary merlt 
enough to attract our attention. 





e, 


178 MARIANA, [Pertop IL. 
Tn 1599, he published a Latin treatise on the Institution 
of Royalty, and dedicated it to Philip the Third;—a 
work liberal in its general political tone, and 
de E sen intimating that there are cases in which 16 
may be lawful to put a monarch to death, but sustaining, 
with great acuteness, the power of the Church, and tend- 
ing even to the establishment of a theocracy. At home, 
it caused little remark. 1t was regularly approved by 
the censors of the press, and is even said to have been 
favored by the policy of the government, which, in the 
time of Philip the Second, had sent assassins to cut off 
Elizabeth of England and the Prince of Orange. But in 
France, where Henry the Third had been thus put to 
death a few years before, and where Henry the Fourth 
suffered a similar fate a few years afterwards, it excited 
a great sensation. Indeed, the sixth chapter of the first 
book directly mentions, and by implication countenances, 
the murder of the former of these monarchs, and was 
claimed, though contrary to the truth of fact, to have 
been among the causes that stimulated Ravaillac to the 
assassination of the latter. 1t was, therefore, both at- 
tacked and defended with extraordinary acrimony; and, at 
last, the Parliament of Paris ordered it to be burned by 
the hands of the common hangman.* What was more un- 
fortunate for its author, the whole discussion having 
brought much popular odium on the Jesuits, who were 
held responsible for a book which was written by one of 
their order, and could not have been published without 
permission of its heads, Mariana himself became more 
than ever unwelcome to the great body of his religious 
associates.? | 


frank as lt should have been. Perhaps 1t 
was not; but he came to the right conclu= 
sion at last, and ib was a bold and honest 
thing to do 80. 

% The order to burn it may be found In a 
curious book entitled “L”Antimariana,” 
(Paris, 1610, Syo, pp. 284,) and is dalcd 
June 10, 1610; less than a month after 
Ahe assassination of Henry IV. The book 
was written by Ronssel, (Barbior, No. 938,) 
and the order is at the end. 


Y The account of this book, and of the 
discussions it occasioned, ls given amply 
by Bayle, in the notes to his article Ma» 
ríana; bot, as ls usual with bim, in a 
ioanner that shows hís díelike of the 
Jesults. 'Tho first edition of ik contaías 
the authority both of the king and of ho 
Examiner of the Order of the Jesuits to 
print the work. The passage Ín extenun- 
tion or defence of the murder of Henry TIL. 
by Jaques Clemens is in Lib. L. o. 6, where 























186 HERRERA. [Peron IL 
Of this class, the first in importance and the most 
Antoniode Comprehensive in character is ““The General 
Herrera. History of the Indies,” by Antonio de Herrera. 

- lt embraces the period from the first discovery of Amer- 
ica to the year 1554; and as Herrera was a practised 
writer, and, from his official position as historiographer 
to the Indies, had access to every source of information 
known at the time, his work, which was printed in 1601, 
is of great value. But he was the author of other histor- 
ical works, for which his qualifications and resources were 
less satisfactory and his prejudices more abundant;— 
such as a “History of the World during the Reign of 
Philip the Second,” a History of the aflairs of England 
and Scotland, during the unhappy times of Mary Stuart; 


avow it. The current of opinion, du fact, 
ran strongly in favor of the forgeries ; und. 
ey were geuerally regarded us true his- 
tory tl about 1850 or a little later, and 
terefore UN long after the death of their 
real author, Father Higuera, which hap- 
pened in 1624. Indeed, as late as 1007 
1075, Gregorio de Argaiz, a man of much 
worthless learning, published in defence of 
them six large folio volumes, one of which 
I have. 

Buck of the Leaden Books — “Libros de 
Plomo" — as were produced between 
March and May, 1605, were solemniy an- 
nounced to the public by episcopal mu- 
tiority in a folio sheet printed at Granada 
at tie time, full of the most extravagant 
absurdities, 1 have a copy of it; and the 
fnc-similes of the inscriptions are emi- 
nenty ridiculous. But, as 1 have said, 
the Spanish people, having readily accepted 
fliem as genuine, were very slow to believe 
they were forgeries, The Chronicones 
continued to enjoy favor even longer than 
the Leaden Books. 1 have found traes 
of belief in them in the latter part of the 
sighteenth century ;—the spurious Fla- 
«vius Dexter being cited as an authority in 
“4work for popular instruction called “ Con- 
wversaciones del R. P. Capuchino Pr. Pran- 
slsco de los Arcos,” 1764, Granada, 4to. 
fee Carta por D. Juan Vicente [Tomas de 
Yrlarte], al R. P. Fr, de los Arcos, Madrid, 
1188, pp. 11, elo. The discussion about 
them, however, which, lt is evident, was 
going quietly on during much of the seven= 
teenth century was useful. Doubts were 1ul- 


tiplicd 3 the disbolief in their genuineness, 
which bad been expressed to Higuera him- 
self, as carly as 1505, by the modest and 
learned Juan Bautista Perez, Bishop of Se 
gorbe, graduall y gaincd ground ; writers of 
history grew enutious; sud at Inst, in 
1652, Nicolas Antonio began his * Historias. 
Fabulosas ¿”4 huge folio, which he left 
unfinished at his death, and which was 
mot printed till long añterwarda, bat which. 
with its cumbrous, iough olear-sighted. 
Jearoing, left no doubt as to the nature and 
extent of the fraud of Father Higuera, 
and made his case a teaching to all futare 
Spanioh historians, that does not seem to 
have been lost on them. See the Chrontele 
of Dexter at the end of Antonio's Biblio- 
teca Vetus; the “ Historias Fabulosas” of 
Antonio, with the Life of its nuthor pre- 
fixed by Mayans y Siscar, (Madrid, 1742, 
folio,) to show the grossness of the whole 
impostare and the “Chrónica Universal” 
of Alonso Maldonado, (Madrid, 1624, folio,) 
to show how implicitly it was then believed 
and followed by learned men, The man of 
Iearning who was the most uncompromising. 
about “The Leaden Books” and the Chro- 
nicones, and who behaved with the most 
scourage in relation to them from the first, 
was, 1 suppose, the Bishop of Segorbe, 
who is noticed in Villanueva, “ Viage 
Ziterario 4 las Iglesias de España,” (Ma- 
drid, 1804, 8vo, Tom. TIT. p. 166,) where is, 
also, the docament (pp. 260-278) in which 
the Bishop exposes the whole fraud, but 
which was never before published. 


























194 MELO. [Penron ML. 


exceed a hundred volumes, and the unpublished would 
materially increase even this vast amount. What is more 
remarkable, he is, in both languages, admitted to the hon- 
ors of a classic writer, 
His “¿History of the War of Catalonia,” which em- 
braces only the short period during which he served in 
it, was written while he was in prison, and was first pub- 
lished in 1645. Owing to political causes he did not give 
his name to it; and when one of his friends in a letter 
expressed surprise at this circumstance, he answered, 
with a characteristic turn of phrase, “The book loses 
nothing for want of my name, and 1 shall lose nothing for 
want of the book.'”* It was, however, successful. The 
accounts of the first outbreak in Barcelona, on the feast 
of Corpus Christi, when the city was thronged with the 
bold peasantry of the interior; the subsequent strife of 
the exasperated factions; the debates in the Junta of 
Catalonia, and those in the kings council, under the lead- 
ing of the Count Duke Olivares; and the closing scene 
of the whole, —the ineffectual storming of the grand 
fortross of Mon Juich by the royal forces, and the disas- 
trous retreat that followed, — are all given with a fresh- 
ness and power that could come only from one who had 
Shared in the feelings he describes, and had witnessed the 
very movements he sets before us. with such a lifelike- 
Spirit. His. style, too, is suited'to his varying subjegts ; E 
sometimes animated and forcible, sométimes quaint and * *- 
_Adiomátic, and sometimes in its dark hints 4nd”“abrupt 
turas réminding us of Tacitus, But the work is short, 
- —not longer than that of Mendoza, which was-its.model, 
— and it Covers only the space.of about six-months at - 
the end of 1640 and the beginning of 1641, “2. ) 
Whether Melo intended to carry his narrative farther 
is uncertain. From his striking conclusion, where lie 
says, “ The events that followed — greater in themselves + 
than those I have related — are perhaps reserved for a 
greater historian,” we might infer that he was desirons 
to describe only what he had witnessed. But, on the 
other side, in his Prelace we have the following character- 
istio address to his readers, alluding to the concealment 


k 














Cmar. XXXVIN.] CHARACTER OF SPANISH HISTORIANS. 199 


Still, as we have seen, several of the historians that 
were produced even under the overshadowing oparacter 
influence of the Austrian family were not unwor- EA 
thy of the national character. Mariana shows bistorians. 
much manly firmness, Solís much fervor, Zurita much 
conscientious diligence, while Mendoza, Moncada, Colo- 
ma, aud Melo, who confined themselves to subjects em- 
bracing shorter periods and less wide interests, have 
given us some of the most striking sketches to be found 
in the historical literature of any country. All of them 
are rich and dignified, abounding rather in feeling: than 
philosophy, and written in a tone and style that mark, 
not so much, perhaps, the peculiar genius of their re- 
spective authors, as that of the country that gave them 
birth ; so that, though they may not be entirely classical, 
they are entirely Spanish; and what they want in finish 
and grace, they make up in picturesqueness and origi- 


nality.* 


have been considering how he should him- 
self write one of the most important reigns 
in the affairs of modern Europe. He 
bardly notices any of the preceding Span- 
ish historians, and when he refers to Ma- 
riana ((. 83) it is only to carp at him, while 
on the other hand he Ís respectful to Be- 
rosus, Manetho, and the other miserable 
forgeries of Annias of Viterbo (Disc. 16), 
and is full of superstition and credulity 
(Disc. 17). 

28 From the times of Charles V. and 
Philip IL, when, in Aragon and Castile, 
chroviclers were multiplied as a part of the 
pagcantry of the court, the rest of the 
kingdoms that entered into the united 
Bpanish monarchy began to desire to have 
their own separate histories, as we can seo 
in Valencia, where those of Beuter, Esco- 
Jano, and Diago were written. Besides 
this, a great number of the Individual 


cities obtained thelr own separate annals 
from the hand of at least one author, — 
sometimes works of authority, like that 
on Segovia by Colmenares, and that on 
Seville by Ortiz de Zuñiga. But though 
more of such local histories were written 
in Spain between the middle of the six- 
teenth and the end of the seventeenth 
century, than were written during the 
same period, I believe, in any other coun- 
try in Europe, none of them, so far as I 
luow, has such peculiar merit as to be 
noticeable in the literary history of the 
country. Btill, the spirit that produced 
them in such great numbers, and espectally 
the spirit which, during the relgn of Philip 
IL, made, with so much care and cost, the 
vast collections of documenta yet to be 
found in the Castle of Simancas and the 
convent of the Escurial, should not be 
overlooked. 











y 


202 [Prarop IL 


The number of proverbs, indeed, was so0n so great, — 
not only those floating about in the common talk of men, 
but those collected and printed, — that they began to be 

turned to account. Garay, who was attached to 
ul Proverbs. the cathedral of Toledo, and therefore lived in the 
centre of whatever was peculiarly Castilian, wrote a long 
letter, every sentence of which was a popular saying ; to 
which he added two similar letters, found, as he says, by 
accident, and made up, in the same way, of proverbs.* 
But, in the middle of the century, a still higher honor 
awaited the old Spanish adages. Pedro Valles, who 
wrote the history of the great Marquis of Pescara, pub- 
lished an alphabetical series of four thousand three hun- 
dred of them in 1549; and the famous Greek scholar and 
distinguished nobleman, Hernan Nuñez de Guzman, Pro- 
fessor suecessively at Alcalá and at Salamanca, found 
amusement for his old age in making another series of 
them, which amounted in all to above six thousand, To 
some he added explanations ; to others, various parallel 
sayings from different languages ; but finding his strength 
fail him, he gave the task to a friend, who, like himself, 
was a Professor in Salamanca, and who published the 
whole in 1555, two years after the death of Nuñez; rath- 
er, as he intimates, from respect to the person from whom 
he received the charge, than from regard to the dignity 
of the employment.? 


PROVERBS, 


from Seneca by Pero Diaz, mentioned in 
note 34 to Period 1. chap. 19, und pp. 340, 
341, of Vol. L. 

* 1 haye never seen the Proverba col- 
lected hy Pedro Valles, the Aragonese, 
1649, but Mayans y Biscar had in his 
library a copy of them, which is described 
in the “Specimen Bibliotheciw Hispano- 
Majansianes, eto, ex Muswo Davidis Ole- 
mentls,? Hannover, 1763, 4to, p. 67. 
The “Cartas de Blasco de Garay” haye 
been often printed; but the oldest and 
most complete edition [ have seen is that 
of Venice, 1553, 12m03 probably pot the 
first. The second of the letters of Garay 
le not ín proverbs, and, ln this edition, is 
followed by a devout prayer; the whole 
being intended, as the author says, “to 
win the attention not so much of the wise 


as of those who are wont to read nothing 
but Celestina and such books,”- The 
4 Proverbios” of Francisco de Castilla, in 
the volume with his *Theórica de Vir 
tudes,” (1552, MT, 64-09) are not proverbs, 
but an exhortation in verse to a wise and 
holy life. 

0 “Refranes, ec., que coligió y glosó, el 
Comendador, Hernan Nuñea, Profesor de 
Retórica en la Universidad de Salamanca,” 
Madrid, 1619, 4to. The preface, by Leo 
de Castro, implies that the volume was 
printed during the life of Nuñes, who 
died in 1653; but 1 find no edition older 
than that of 1555. See the note of Pelli- 
cer to Don Quixote, Parte IL c. 34. ero 
nimo de Serrano, in his biographical notice 
to the “Lande de Mugeres,” Milano, 1680, 
says that its author, Juan de Bpinosa, had 








204 PROVERBS. +. [PamoD IL - 


Still, though so many thousands haye been collected, 
many thousands still remain unpublished, known only 
among the traditions of the humbler classes of society, 
that have given birth to ¿them all, Juan de Yriarte, a 
learned man, who was nearly forty years at the 
of the King's Library at Madrid, collected, about the 
middle of the eighteenth century, no less than twenty- 
four thousand; and yet it is not to be supposed that a 
single individual, however industrious, living in Madrid, 
could exhaust their number, as they belong rather to 
the provinces than to the capital, and are spread every- 
where among the common people, and through all their 
dialects.* 

Why proverbs should abound so much more in Spain 
than in any other country of'Christendom, it is not pos- 
sible to tell. Perhaps the Arabs, whose language is rich 
in such wisdom, may haye furnished some of them; or 
perhaps the whole mass may haye sprung from the origi- 
nal soil of the less cultivated classes of Spanish society. 
But however this may be, we know they are often among 
the pleasantest and most characteristic ornaments of the 
national literature; and those who are most familiar with 
them will be most ready to Agres with the wise author of 
the “Dialogue on Languages,” when he says, and repeats 
the remark, that we must go to the old national proverbs 
for what is purest in his native Castilian.** 


re eleven hundred Greek and Latin Proy- 
erbs translated Into terse Castílian rh, 

nd sometimes, though rarely, rendered by 
corresponding national proverbs, They 
were very popular in thelr time, for Me 
Mrst edition was of 1567, and was followed 
by at least five others. T have an ITtalian 
translation of them, Venice, 1622. Al the 
proverbs of Varros except the first five 
begin with the word “Ni;"—a poor 
alfectation. Other collections are men- 
tloned by Gayangos ;—wvíz. Alonso de 
Tuentes, 1548; Juan Ruíz de Bustamente, 
1661 ; and Francisco Thamara, 1552. (See 
Spanish translation of this History, Tom. 
INT. p. 556.) Abont seventeen hundred 
national proverbs, taken from the Dic- 
tionary of the Academy and elucidated, 
may be found in “Refranes de la Lengua 


Castellana ** (Barcelona, 1815, 2 wol., + 
12m0). 

3 Vargas y Ponce, Declamacion, Maz 
drid, 1593, Alo, App, p. 03. An anony- 
mous author, however, who speaks of the 
collectors of proverbs, and, among the rest, 
of Yriarte, saya the most complete colleo- 
tion had been made by D. Gonzalo Corren. 
“Defensa de D. Fern. Perez, Autor de la 
Carta de Paracuellos,” Madrid, 1790, p. 80. 
There is a very good life of Yriarte lu Vol. 
TL of the “ Espagne Littéraire,? YIT4; a 
poor periodical hy Nicolas Bricaire de 
Dixmérie, which díd not survive the year 
orita birth, although ín 1810 2 sort of 
rifacimento of lt was published at Paris. 

12 Mayans y Siscar, Orígenes, Tom. L, 
pp. 185-191, and the Diálogo de las Len- 
guas, p. 12, where the author says, “In 








206 ACOSTA. [Pxxxop HL. 
when he wrote the first part of his ““ Persiles and Sigis- 
munda.” Y 

Obristóval de Acosta, a Portuguese botanist, — who 

was accustomed to call himself “*the African,” 

Acosta because he happened to be born in one of the 
African possessions of Portugal, — travelled much in the * 
East, and after his return published, in 1578, a work on 
Oriental plants and drugs, to which he added at the end 
a treatise on the natural history of the Elephant. But, 
though he succeeded in attracting the attention of En- 
rope to this publication, and though the early part of his 
life had been that of a soldier, an adventurer, and a cap- 
tive among pirates and robbers, he spent many of his 
later years, if pot all of them, in religious retirement at 
home, where, besides other things, he wrote a discourse 
on “The Benefits of Solitude,” and a treatise on “The 
Praise of Women,” The last was printed in 1592, and, 
except that it is too full of learning, may still be read 
with some interest, if not with pleasure. 

lt was not, however, moral and philosophical writers, 
like Oliva and Guevara, nor writers on subjects connected 
with natural history, like Torquemada and Acosta, that 


da « Jardin de Flores Curiosas, ce., por 
Ant. de Torquemada,” 1670, 1678, 1587, 


Acosta, Affricano,” was printed at Vonica, 
1602, dto, and L know no other edition. 


1589. 'Thecdition of Anveres, 1575, 18mo, 
Mills 536 pages. “The Spanish Mandeville 
of Miracles, or the Gardeo of Curious 
Flowers,” (London, 1600, 4to,) is a trans- 
lation into good old English, by Lewes 
Lewkenor, as appears by ihe second Dedi- 
cation ín the second edition, 1618, though 
it ís commonly attributed to Ferdinand 
Walker, who originally published it. 1 
have also an Italian translation of 4t by 
Celio Malespina, printed at Venice, 1019, 
but with a dedication dated 1690, The 
original ía strictly prohibited in the Todex 
Expurgitorius of 1907, p. 68, The “Co- 
loquios Satíricos,” by the some muthor, 
(1553,) I haye never setn. 

4 iTractado de las Drogas y Medicinas 
de las Indias Orientales, por Christival 
Acosta,” Burgos, (1578, 4to) where lts 
author was a surgeon 5 but there are other 
editivos, (1552 and 1592,) and early Italian 
ud French translations. The “Tractado 
en Loor de lus Mugeres, por Christival 


Barbosa, in hís life of Acosta, spells his. 


mame Da Costa. All tbe works of Acosta 
were printed at Venice by Glacomo Cor- 
netti, 1699, 4to. 

A work not unllke Acostas ““Loor de 
las Mugeres”? was published at Milan ln. 
1580, after the death of its author, Joan de 
Bpinosa, and entitled “ Dialogo en Laude 
la las Mugeres,” but it was dedicated by 
himself to Mars, Empress of Austria and 
daughter of Obarles Y. Spinosa was dis- 
tinguished as a soldier from the time of ths 
battle of Ravenna, apd alterwards as a 
diplomatist; but he loved letters, and 
wrote with vigor in the pure style of the 
time of Philip 11., though with a liktlo o8- 
tentation of learning. He maíntains (P. 
46, cto.) that woman by her organization is 
more perfect than man. Another work 
by him, of which he speaks la this one, 
the Micracanthos, — E have never seen, 
and am not sure that it was ever printed. 








208 SAN JUAN DE LA CRUZ, [Pexiop AL, 
chapter of the very work they had earlier so harshly con- 


sured, 

Luis de Granada passed all tho latter part of his life in 
Lisbon, — perhaps because he had been repeatedly an 
noyed by the Inquisition at home, perhaps because his 
duties seemed to lead him there. But, whatever may 
have been the cause, itis certain that he enjoyed much 
more favor in Portugal than he did in Spain; and when 
he died, in 1588, eighty-four years old, he could boast 
that he had refused the bighest honors of the Portuguese 
Church, and humbly devoted the whole of his long life to 
the reformation and advancement of the Order of Preach= 
ers, of which, during its best FORT, he had been the ac» 
tive and venerated head.'* 

San Juan de la Cruz, who was in some respects an imi- 
tator of Luis de Granada, was born in 1542, and, having 
sao spent the greater part of his life in reforming 
de la the discipline of the Carmelite monasteries, died 
Cruz in 1691, and was beatified in 1674. His works, 
which are chiefly contemplative, and obtained for him the: 
title of the Ecstatic Doctor, are written with great fervor. 
The chief of them are the allegory of “* The Ascent to 
Mount Carmel,” and “The Dark Night of the Soul,” — 
treatises which have given him much reputation for a. 
amystical eloquence, that sometimes rises to the sub 
lime, and sometimes is lost in the unintelligible. His 
poetry, of which a little is printed in some of the many 
editions of his works, is of the same general charac- 
ter, but marked by great felicity and richness of phrase- 
ology.* 


15 Preface to Obras de Luis de Granada, 
Madrid, 1057, folio, and Preface to Guia de 
Pecadores, Madrid, 1781, 8vo, Antonio, 
Bib, Nov, Tom. IL p. 38. Llorente, Hist., 
Mota. TIL. p. 125, Biblioteca de Autores 
Esp, Tom. VI, VIIL, XI. His works are 
«numerous, and he enjoys Lhe singular honor 
ol having had an edition of them published 
by Planta, at the expense of the Duke of 
Alva, the minister and general of Philip DL. 
A whimsical intimation of the 

in 111660, of the French trans= 
Iation of the “ Guia de Pecadores,” may 
bo found in Moliére's “ Oocu Imaginaire/* 


(sc. 1,) where the father, endeavoring to 


lo, 
several books instead of the fashionable 
romance of “lélic,” and, among the 
others, says of this one, “La Guide des 
Pécheura est encore un bon livre? 

16 Obras de San Juan de la Crur, Be» 
villa, 1703, folio, twelfth edition. _A very: 
curlons Life of him was written in 1623, 
entitled “Suma de la Vida y Milagros del 
Venerable Padre, Fray Juan de la Cruz” 
My copy is ln 4to, and was printed at Ant» 
werp in 1625. Itwas a popular work, inw 








210 SCHOOL OF SPIRITUALISTS. [Pano Io 
life, she was persecuted by the Inquisition; but after her 
death, her manuscripts were collected with pious care, 
and published, in 1588, by Luis de Leon, who exhorts all 
men to follow in the bright path she has pointed out to 
them; adding, “She has seen God face to face, and she 
now shows him to you.” 

This school of spiritualists, to which belonged Juan de 
Avila and Luis de Leon, of whom we have before spoken, 
had, no doubt, a very considerable effect on Spanish 
sonooror  lidactic prose. They raised its tone, and did 
Spiritualists. more towards placing it on the old foundations, 
where the chronicles and the earlier writers of the coun- 
try, like Lucena, had left it, than had been done for nearly 
two centuries. Such eflorts gave dignity, if not purity 
or an exact finish, to the proper Castilian style; so that, 
at the end of the reign of Philip the Second, it was not 
only of more consequence to an author's reputation to 
write well upon any grave subject in prose than it bad 
ever been before, but, with such examples before him, it 
was easier to do so, In all this, the movement made was 
in the right direction, and produced happy results. But, 
on the other hand, we should remember that it confirmed 
in the didactic literature of the country that tendency to 
a diffuse and florid declamation, which was early one of 
its blemishes, and “from which, with such authority in its 
favor, Castilian prose has never since been able completely 
to emancipate itself. 


17 Obras de Santa Teresa, (Madrid, 1793, 
2 tom, 4to,) Tom, 1, p.393, Of her letters 
I have spoken at the end of Chapter 
XXXVHL of this Period, and an excellent 
discussion of her character, and that of the 
mystical school to which she belonged, 
may be found in the Christian Examiner, 
No. 152, Boston, March, 1849. Her works 
are accompanied with many offers of in- 
dulgence to those who read a chapter or a 
letter of any of them, Gr hear dt read. 
For her troubles with the Inquisition, see 
Llorente, Tom. MIL p. 114. Santa Teresa 
was bentified in 1614, and ennonized in 
1022; besides which, in 1617 and 102%, 
the Cortes chose her to be the co=patroness 
and advocate of Spata with Santiago; an 
honor that was long resisted, but was 
urged ancw by the testament of Charles 


JX., and eonfirmed hy the Cortes of 1812, 
June 25, at the urgent petition of the Car- 
elites, in a spirit worthy of the age ln 
which she lived. Seo Southey"s Peninsular 
War, London, 1892, 4to, Tom. ILL. p, 630, 
Quevedo entered into the discussion: about 
the patronship of Spain, defending the ex- 
clusive right of St. James in his “ Patro- 
nato de St. lago? —a tract which cost 
him an exile and imprisonment of several 
months, — 80 fierco was the quarrel in 
1698, 

"The Works of Santa Teresa, it may be 
noted, are atiracting regard in the United 
States, whero her “ Autobiography” and 
“Way of Perfection” are announced 
among the standard publications of the 
Catholic Church. 








| 


212 ROXAS. [Perzon H, 


¿Quite different from this is “The Amusing Journey ” 
ms Agustin de Roxas, — a book that hardly falls 
within the strict limits of any class, but one 
which has always been popular in Spain. ts author was 
an actor; and his travels consist of an account of some 
-of his personal adventures and experiences, thrown into 
the form of dialogues between three of his fellow-comedi- 
ans and himself, as they visit some of the principal cities 
of Spain in the exercise of their profession as strolling 
players, They travel on foot; and their conversations, 
which are little molested by seruples of any sort, make 
up a very amusing book, 
ln some parts of it, we have sketches of the places: 
thoy visit, with notices of the local history belongíng to 
each, In others, Roxas himself, in a spirit that not un- 
frequently reminds us of Gil Blas, relates his own previ- 
ous adventures, as a soldier, as a captive in France, and 
as a play-actor at home. In yet others, we have fiction, 
or what seem to he such, and among them, the story on 
which Shakespeare founded his Christopher Sly and the 
Induction to “The Taming of the Shrew.?” But, in gen- 
eral, it is rather an account of what relates to the theatre 
and the affairs of the four gay compavions at Seville, 


Toledo, Segovia, Valladolid, 


Fernando de Zarate, — first published in 
1690, agalo jo 1597, aud now lately in 
1853, in the Biblioteca of Ribas 
Tom. XXVIL, —should be added, but it 
As not of equal merit with the works of the 
principal mystical and ascetic writers 
whom we have already noticed. Parts of 
it are very flat, —some parts are even vul= 
gar, —but lt is always olear án its style, 
and sometimes forcible. 

Better, however, than either of the last 
are the “Meditaciones Espirituales? the 
principal and best of several similar works 
ol Luis de la Puente, an eminent Jeauit 
who died at Valladolid, his native city, ín 
162, seventy years old. His Meditations 
on the Mysteries of Obristino Faith, on 
Mental Prayer, and on a multitude of other 
similar subjects, commoniy SI three vol- 
umos, and are wrilien in the solemn,, 
Jearued, pure style of the sixteenth century. 
They were flest published in 1005, but the 
mumber of editions slnee has been yery 


Granada, and on the roads 


great, and they have, besides, been trans- 
lated two or three times loto Latin, twice 


leneyra, into French, and once, at least, into Italian, 
Fiemish. 


English, and. 

A very similar work, of about equal size, 
and, 1f of somewhat less power and popu- 
larity, yet to be noted far both, was pub- 
lished at Seville in 1614, when ho was 
elghty-cight years old, by Alphonso Rod- 
rigues, another Jesuit, bora in Valladotid, 
but who lived chiefiy at Seville, and died 
there, Feb. 21, 1616, the day he had com- 
pleted his ninetieth year. This work, the 
child of his extreme old age, was, T believe, 
the only one he ever wrote, and is entitlod 
4 Exercicio de Perfeccion,'* being. £he re- 
sult, in some sort, of his long religious ex- 
perience. Like the “ Meditaciones Y of La 
Pueite, it is written dn a pure style, be- 
coming lts nature and purpose, and em- 
braces almost all the guhjects of Christian 
reflection and meditation. Like that, t00, 
it was translated aud read al over Europe, 








pa 


214 VARIOUS DIDACTIO PROSE WRITERS, [Peron IL. 
* Some of the best: peo didactic literature of 

Varios Spain during the seventeenth century were 
Eres Partly or wholly political. Marquez, a writer 
writers, in the rich old style of the reign of Philip the 
Second, published in 1612 his “* Christian Governor,” as 
set forth in the lives of Moses and Joshua, a work com- 
posed at the request of the Duke of Feria, then viceroy 
of Sicily, and intended to serve as an answer to Machia- 
velli's “Prince.”*% Vera y Zuñiga, author of a strange 
epic on the conquest of Seville, who was a better minister 
of Philip the Third than he was poet, published in 1620 
a treatise, in four discourses, on the character and duties 
of an ambassador; full of learning, and occasionally illus- 
trated with appropriate anecdotes drawn from Spanish 
history, but citing indiscriminately books of authority and 
no authority on the grave subjects he discusses, and 
relying apparently with as much confidence, in questions 


Ea 


lished (Madrid, 1021, dto) a volume of five 
hundred pages, entitled “ Varias Noticias 
importantes 4 la Humana Comunicacion” 
which he divides Into twenty essays, en 
tltlea * Varicdudes.? It ia lesa well writ- 
ten than the Ps falling more into 
the faults of the time. The seyenteenth 
Essay, hówever, which is on Domestic Life, 
illostrations from Bpanish history, í8 

His Y Plaza Universal de las 
Tenetas]" Arst printed at Madrid, tn 1615, 
¿4to, and reptinted in folio, with large 
changez and. additions, Ín-1787, is an at- 
tempt, from the Italian of Tomás Garzoni, 
ata compendiun of human kitowledge,, 


curious in the first edition, aa: showing the 


slate of levowledge and opjulon at that time 
in Spalo, butof lesa importance in the 'sec- 
'ond, which omits many passages of Figueroa. 
that are noye of yalué, and which, in other 
=respecta, seems to be fitted to the time 
when dt was published, with a skill io re- 
casting it, acquired, L suspect, Among the 
Jesuita. 

A more serjous book of travels might 
here have been added; that of Pedro Or- 
donen de Cevallos, entitled “Viage del 
Mundo," and first printed at Madrid, 1614, 
dto. Itisan agreeable and often interest 
ing autoblograpby of lts author, beginning 
with bis birth ar Jaen apd his education at 
Beville, and giving his travels, for thirty- 
mine years, all over the world, including 


China, America, many parts of Africa, and 
the norttern kingdoms of Europe. “Ita 
spirit is eminently national, and its style 
simple and Castillan. 

"his work of Cevallos furnished somo 0 
the materials for an amusing Freneh flction. 
of the picaresque sort, entitled “Les Ayen- 
tuses de Don Junn de Vargus racontées par 
Tnisméme. 'Traduites de Espagnol sur 
le manuserit inédit.* (Paris, 1853, 18m0.) 
Some of the reviews that noticed jt were 
deluled into accepting Je as a genulno 
translation from the Spanish, —so national 
de lts tone and, manner, —hut lt de really 
the work of Mons, Henri Ternsux-Com- 
pans, o veliezowa Baplat els. 

There ls also: another emaller work of 
Cevallos, entitled “Relaciones verdaderas 
delos Reynos de la China, Cochin-Chína, 
Ohampaa,” 00, (Jaen, 1660, 4to,) fall of 
wild stories of the authors adventares and. 
of the progress of Christianity iñ China, 

21 ¿El Governador Christiano, deducido 
de las Vidas dé Moyses y Josua, por Juan * 
Marquez.” There are editions of 1612, 
1610, 1034, 1651, ete., with translations. 
into Ttalían and French. The same author 
wrote also Dos Estados de la Espiritual 
Jerusalem," 1603, He was born in 1564, 
and died in 1621. Capmany (Eloquencia, 
Tom. DY. pp. 103, etc.) praises lim highiy 
but not too much, 






































Cmap. XXXIX.] CHARACTER OF DIDACTIC PROSE. 227 


sustain what he had to say by citations from the Scrip- 
tures, the fathers of the Church, and the ancient and 
scholastic philosophers. Thus, Spanish didactic prose, 
which, from its original elements and tendencies, seemed 
destined to wear the attractions of an elevated and elo- 
quent style, gradually became so formal, awkward, and 
pedantic, that, with a few striking exceptions, it can only 
be said to have maintained a doubtful and difficult exist- 
ence during the long period when the less suspected and 
less oppressed portions of the literature of the country 
— its drama and its lyric poetry — were in the meridian 
of their success. 











230 PHILIP THE THIRD. [Prrrop IL. 


impoverished people, whose energies he had overstrained 
and impaired by bis despotism, and whose character he 
had warped and misdirected by his unrelenting and un- 
scrupulous bigotry.1 
His successor, feeble-minded and superstitious, was 
neither able to repair the results of such mis. 
Por. chefs, nor to contend with the difficulties they 
entailed upon bis country. The power of the clergy, 
grown enormous by the favor of Philip the Second and 
the consolidated influence of the Jesuits, continued to 
gain strength, as it were of itself; and, under the direct 
persuasions of this mighty hierarchy, nearly six hundred 
thousand descendants of Moors — who, though presery- 


1 There is a remarkable paper, in the 
sixth volume of the “Semanario Erudito,” 
on. the causes of the decline of Spain ¿— 
remarkable because, though written in the 
reiga of Philip 1V., by Juan de Palafox y 
Mendoza, an ecclesiastio of rank, whom 
Charles 11L afterwards asked to have 
Canonized, it yet altributes the origin of 
the prostration under which Spalu sul 
fered ia his time mainly to the war with 
the Netherlands. This war, from 1567 to 
1612, is said to have cost Spain above bwo 
hundred milicos of dollars, (Havemann, 
p. 269, note) anil the debt of Spain to have 
risen ln the time of Phillp IL from thirty= 
five millions of ducats to one hundred and 
forty. Tbid., p. 272. 

Bul the deeper difficulty of contempt 
for labor was felt much carlier. In the 
curious “Dialogue of Mercury and Cha» 
ron;? attributed to Juan Valdés, and 
printed about 1630, the good Friar says, 
that he entered a religions house “por 
poder honestamente trabajar,” and gives 
khe reason why he was obliged to do lt, 
“ porque,” he says, “ni mi linaje, mi mí 
estado me consentira trabajar, sl no mu- 
daba el habito.” (Bd. Wiffen,p. 300.) That 
ds, being well boro, he could do nothing 
creditably for his living, unless he entered 
the Church or the army. This was early 
in the reign of Charles Y. 

In 1552, the Cortes spoke plainly to the 
Emperor about the enormous increase of 
church property, making their Afy-A/fth 
4 Peticion” in the following words: 
“Ytem, por experiencia se vee que las 
haciendas estan todas en poder de Y glesías, 
Colegios, Hospitales, et Monasterios de quo 


viene notable daño a vuestras rentas reales 
eta vuestros subditos et naturales ¿ et sino 
so remedia todas las haziendas yernan 4 
poder dellos.. Suplicamos a vuestra Ma- 
gestad sea servido de mandar que de aquí 
adelante, ninguna yglesía, nl monasterio 
compre bienes rayzes,” eo. Leyes, el. 
Valladolid, folio, 1658, £. xlii. 

To the time of Philip IL. sueh complaínta 
were little likely to be heard ; but as soon 
as he was dead, even a one of the funeral 
discourses in honor of his memory, lt 48 
distinctly alluded to. (Sermones Funerales 
del Rey D. Felífle 11., Madrid, 1601, £. 1793 
— the discourse in question being by Fray 
Agustio Salacio) In the time of Philip 
TIL. (1620) Geronimo de Cevallos published 
his “Discurso de las Razones,” to show 
how wide-spread a ruin must follow the 
great increase of ecolesiastical institutions, 
mud in the same year Doctor Gutierre, 
Marques de Carreaga, auswered him, ía 2 
* Respuesta al Discurso,” ec., in which he 
denies the injuries imputed to the ecclez 
siastical corporatioos, and maintains that 
the kingdom would soon come to ruín 
without their prayers, fastings, and alma. 
But neither of these writers was equal to. 
the grave subject he undertook to treat ; 
and besides, the mischlel—still felt Lo bo 
beyond the reach of Jegislation —had been 
done in the time of Philip IL. and earlier, 
An extraordinary expedient was adopted, 
in 1623, by Philip TIL, to remedy it and. 
to encourage population, By a solemo 
prematica, he granted the privileges of 
mobility for four years to all who would 
marry, and for life to all who had six male 
children. 











234 DECAY OF THE NATIONAL CHARACTER. [Preston IL 
the government, and sometimes even failed to furnish 
forth the royal table with its accustomed propriety ; so 
that the envoy of Austria expressed his regret at having 
accepted the place of ambassador at a court where he 
was compelled to witness a misery so discreditable.* 

It was a new lesson to the world in the vicissitudes of 
empire, No country in Christendom had, from such a 
height of power as that which Spain oceupied in the time 
of Charles the Fifth, fallen into such an abyss of degra- 
dation as that in which every proud Sparfiard felt Spain 
to be sunk, when the last of the great House of Austria 
approached the grave, believing himself to be ubder the 
influence of sorcery, and seeking relief by exorcisms 
which would have disgraced the credulity of the Middle 
Ages; —all, too, at the time when France was jubilant 
with the victoriés of Condé, and England preparing for 
the age of Marlborough.* 

In any country, such a decay in the national character 
and power would be accompanied by a corresponding, if 
pectineor "Ot an equal, decay in its literature; but in 
ali culture. Spain, where both had always been so inti- 
mately connected, and where both had rested, in such a 
remarkable degree, on the same foundations, the wise 
who looked on from a distance could not fail to anticipate 
a rapid and disastrous decline of all that was intellectual 
and elegant, And so, in fact, it proved, The old relig- 
ion of the country, —the most prominent of all the 
national characteristics, — the mighty impulse which, in 


4 Tapia, Hist, de la Civilizacion Espa- 
ñola, Madrid, 1540, 12mo, Tom. TIL p. 
107, The same fact is mentioned by Stan- 
hope, the English Ambassador at Madrid, 
in the curious and interesting correspond= 
ence published by Lord Mahon, entitled 
“Spain under Charles IL” (2d edit, 
London, 1844, Svo). In a letter to the 
Under-Secretary of State, dated May 26, 
1098, (p. 151) General Stanhope says, 
“"he Conde de Andero, who ls Supraln- 
tendiente de las Rentas, declares. he is not 
able to ind money for his Majesty!s sub- 
ristenes.” 

5 ho details — disgusting enough — are 
given by L. F. Moratín, in the notes to his 
edition of the “Anto de Fé de Logroño, 


del Año 1610, a work originally published 
for general edification, by one of the per= 
sons concerned in the auto itself, and cer 
tiñed to be true by others ; but reprinted 
(Cadiz, 1812, 12m0) by Moratin, the comic: 
poet, to show the ignoranoe and brutalíty 
of all who had a hand in it. Thereisa 
play on the subject by Gil y Zarate, 18374 
but it does not respect the truth of his. 
tory. 

Stanhope, in the correspondence referred 
to in the last note, says (p. 181) that the 
hewitehment of the king was generally 
believed in Madrid. Sismondi des 
Franqais, Tom. XXY., 1841, p. 85, Tom. 
XXVI. pp. 207, 208) gives n revolting a0- 
count of the royal imbecility. 








BIGOTRY OF THE PEOPLE. [Peron IL. 
as part of the rejoicings deemed appropriate to her wed- 
ding; and the same thing was done by Madrid, in 1632, 
for another French princess, when she gave birth to an 
heir to the crown;*—odious proofs of the degree to 
which bigotry had stifled both the dictates of an enlight- 
ened reason and the common feelings of humanity. 

But in all this the people and their leaders rejoiced. 
When a nobleman, about to die for adhorence to the Prot- 
estant faith, passed the balcony where Philip the Second 
sat in state to witness the horrors of his execution, and 
appealed to him not to see his innocent subjects thus 
cruelly put to death, the monarch replied, that, if it were 
his own son, he would gladly carry the fagots for his ex- 
ecution; and the answer was received at the time, and 
recorded afterwards, as one worthy of the head of the 
mightiest empire in the world.? And again, in 1680, 
when Charles the Second was induced to signify his 
desire to enjoy, with his young bride, the spectacle of an 
auto de fé, the artisans of Madrid volunteered in a body 
to erect the needful amphitheatre, and labored with such 
enthusiasm, that they completed the vast structure in an 
incredibly short space of time; cheering one another at 


£ Llorente, Hist., Tom. 1T. p.385, Tom, TV. 
p-5. 1 think 1032 in Llorente is a misprint 
Jor 1023, becanse Isabel de Bourbon had no 
child born in 1632, while the Infanta Doña 
Margarita María Catalina was born 25 
Nov., 1623. (Flores, Reynas Catolicas, 
Tom. IL, 1770, p. 940.) The date in the 
text, in that case, should be 1623. 

3 Tupia, Hist, Tom. TIL, p. 88. Por- 
roño (Dichos y Hechos de Phelipe IL, 
written 1626, Chap. XIV) and Cabrera 
(Phelipe IL, Lib. Y. cap. il, written 
earlicr, and published in 1619) give the 
words of the king to Don Carlos de Sese, 
the unhappy gentleman in question, as he 
was passing to bis awful fate ; “Yo tracre 
la leña para quemar a mi hijo, si fuere tan 
malo como vos? Agustin Davila, who, on 
the Sth ol November, 1508, pronounced a 
funeral sermon on Philip If. in Valladolid, 
— the very city where Oarlos de Sese had 
been burntalive, —sponks with enthusiasm 
of these infamous words ás a “famosa sen- 
tencia.” (Sermones Funerales las Honras 
de Felipe Ul., Madrid, 1601, 4to, £ 78.) 


Ferhaps, howeyer, it is yet more remark= 
able that the gay and Epicurean Philip TV. 
expressed similar feolimgs, and that, ln a 
similar way, they were reckoned among his 
posthumous honors. But such is the fact. 
On being asked, as a matter of form, for 
permission, to. thrust one of hís Ministera 
of State into the Tnquisition, he gave il, 
and added, as a volunteer protestation, 
that, “if his own son were guilty, he would 
give him up with an equally good wilL+ 
Bulthazar was then alive, and a child he 
passionately loved. But this spirit was 
infused by the Inquisition wherever its 
influences extended. (See Pedro Rodri 
guez de Monforte, Honras, co. de Felipe 
IV., Madrid, 1666, 4to, p. 10.) It may be 
well here to note, that Mexico claimed it as 
one of the honors of Philip IL that he n= 
troduced the Inquisition there in 1674, and 
that in 1696 cight persons, five of whom 
were women, were burnt alive as Jews, 
Exequías de Philippo 11., Mexico, 1600, 
4to, Ml. 133, $99. 








238 FAILURE OF THE NATIONAL CHARACTER. [Perrop IL 
because he was the king — was looked upon substantially 
as he had been in the days of Saint Ferdinand and the 
“ Partidas,” when he was accounted the direct vicegerent 
of Heaven, and the personal proprietor of all those por- 
tions of the globe which he had inherited with his crown.* 
The Duc de Vendóme, therefore, showed his thorough 
knowledge of the Spanish character, when, in the War of 
the Succession, — Madrid being in possession of the ene- 
my, and everything seeming to be lost, —he still declared, 
that, if the persons of the king, the queen, and the prince 
were but safe, he would himself answer for final sue- 
cess.M In fact, the old principle of loyalty, sunk into a 
submission — voluntary, it is true, and not without grace, 
but still an unhesitating submission —to the mere author- 
ity of the king, seemed to have become the only eflicient 
bond of connection between the crown and its subjects, 
and the main resource of the state for the preservation of 
social order, The nation ceased to claim its most impor- 
tant rights, if they came in conflict with the rights claimed 
by the royal prerogative; so that the resistance of Aragon 
in the case of Perez, and that of Catalonia against the 
oppressive administration of the Count Duke Olivares, 
were easily put down by the zeal of the yery descendants 
of the Comuneros of Castile. 
Tt is this degradation of the loyalty and religion of the 
country, infecting as it did every part of the na- 
te ostional tional character, which we have felt to be under- 
mining the general culture of Spain during the 
seventeenth century; its workings being sometimes visi- 


onze Martyres Franciscanos de Goreomio, 
que escrivió Fray Alonso Lopez Magda- 
lena,? (Madrid, 1076,) in which, speaking 
of a tumult in the eity of Goreum ín Hol 
land, lt is suld to have begun, “Empu- 
ñando los heregos lns armas contra todos 
los fieles vasallos de ambas Majestades ” 
(p- 18) ; —meaning God and Philip TL. 
Magestad was also applisd to the Pyx, 
as containing the sacramental wafera, To 
4 traoton 1 showy festival ln the parish of 
Sta. Orua, in Mudrid, in May, 1628, on 
ovcasion of the transfer of the Sacrament 
lo 4 new phapel, we haye such strange 


Phrases as the following: “Todos nueve 
dias estuvo su Magestad patente ; ”— “Un 
Bufete donde estuvo su Magestad,” se. ¡— 
4 Breve Compendio del Aparato y Fiesta,” 
ee. Madrid, 4to, 1628. 

Tolte these passages, not merely to ex- 
plain the extraordinary use of the word 
Magestad, but to iMlustrate a sentiment 
constantly reappearing in Spanish Htera 
ture, and involving 4 Confusion 1n the ideas 
ofreligious falth and personal logalty which 
was mischievons to the national character 

12 Partida Segunda, Tit. XII. 

4 Tapia, Hist, Tom. 1Y. p. 19, 





HISTORY 


or 


SPANISH LITERATURE. 





THIRD PERIOD. 


THE LITERATURE THAT EXISTED IN SPAIN BETWEEN THE ACCESSION OF 
THE BOURBON FAMILY AND THE INVASION OF BONAPARTE ; 
OR FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTEENTH 
CENTURY TO THE EARLY PART OF 
THE NINETEENTH. 


VOL. HI. n - 








244 


secret political testament, declared the Duke of Anjou, 
second son of the Dauphin and grandson of Louis the 
Fourteenth of France, to be sole heir to his throne and 
dominions. 

The decision was not unexpected, and was, perhaps, as 
wise as a wiser king would have made under similar cir- 
War or io Cumstances, Butit was not the more likely, on 
Suecession. either account, to be acquiesced in, Austria 
declared war against the new dynasty, as soon as the will 
of the deceased monarch was divulged; and England 
and Holland, outraged by the bad faith of Louis the 
Fourteenth, who, hardly two years before, had made an 
arrangement with them for a wholly different settlement 
of the Spanish question, soon joined her. The war, 
known as “the War of the Succession,”” became general 
in its character; Spain was invaded by the allied powers ; 
and the contest for its throne was kept up on the soil of 
that unfortunate country, partly by foreign troops, and 
partly by divisions among its own people, until 1713, 
when the treaty of Utrecht confirmed the claims of the 
Bourbon dynasty, and gave peace to Europe, wearied 
with blood. 

So far as Spain was concerned, the results of this war 
Josses o Were most important. On the one hand, she 
Spain. lost by it nearly half of her European domin- 
ions, and fell, if not in proportion to such a loss, yeb very 
greatly, in the scale of nations. But, on the other hand, 
the vast resources of her American colonies still remained 
untouched ; her people had been roused to new energy 
by their exertions in defence of their homes; and their 
ancient loyalty had been, to an extraordinary degree, 
concentrated on a young and adventurous prince, who, 
though himself a foreigner, stood before them as their 
defender against foreign invasion. It seemed, therefore, 
-as if still there were life in Spain, and as if something 
remained of the old national character, on which to build 
a new culture,! 

1 Lord Mahow's [Lord Stanhope's] ex- mind of the reader, as to the effeet of that 
collent “History of the War of the Sue- waron the Spanish character, that de Jefk 


cession in Spaín” (London, 1832, Svo) by the contemporary accounts of lt, Ito, 
leaves the same general impression on the no doub!, the true one. 


WAR OF THE SUCCESSION. [Person ML. 
| 


A it 





SPANISH ACADEMY. [Peniob HI. 
under the authority of its government, and composed of 

the principal men of letters of the time, was gen- 
Academy. — erally favored ; — the French Academy, founded 
by Cardinal Richelien, and always the model of its class, 
being now at the height of its success and fame. To 
establish a Spanish Academy, which should have similar 
objects and reach similar results, was, therefore, naturally 
the great literary project of the reign of Philip the Fifth.* 
Probably the king himself had early entertained it. Cer- 
tainly it was formally brought to his notice, in 1713, by 
the Marquis of Villena, a nobleman, who, amidst the cares 
of five successive viceroyalties, had found leisure to 
devote himself, not only to letters, but to some of the 
more severe branches of the physical and exact sciences, 
His first purpose seems to have been to form an academy 
whose empire should extend, on all sides, to the limits of 
human knowledge, and whose subdivisions should be sub- 
stantially made according to the system of Lord Bacon. 
This, however, was soon abandoned as too vast an un- 
dertaking; and it was determined to begin by confining 
the duties of the new association principally to “the 
cultivation and establishment of the purity of the Castil- 
jan language.” An Academy for this object went into 
operation, by virtue of a royal decree dated the 3d of 
October, 1714.* 


3 The Royal Library, now the National 
Library, at Madrid, which was strictly the 
earliest literary project of the reign of 
Philip V., was founded lo 17113 but for 
several years lt was an institution of little 
importance. (El Bibliotecario y el Trova= 
dor, Mudrid, 1841, folio, p.3.) The Com= 
atitucaones were given Jan. 2, 1716, nnd it 
is a ennracteristic circumatanee that the 
Arst of them requires the king's eonfessor 
to be, ín all future time, its responsible 
Director. (Fundación y Estatutos de la 
Libreria publica, Madrid, 1716, dto.) It 
became, of course, an orthodox library, 
and little else, for a long time. 

4 “Historia de la Academia? in the 
Prefuce to the *' Diccionario de la Lengua 
Castellana, por la Real Academía Espa- 
ñola,? Madrid, Tom. L, 1726, folio. Sem- 
pere y Guarinos, Biblioteca, 1785, Discurso 
Preliminar, and Tom. L. p, 66, Fundacion 


y Estatutos de la Real Academia Española, 
Madrid, 1715, áto.. The Grst mecting was 
held July 6, 1713, and eight persons were 
present, The Marquis of Villena, its real 
founder and first Director, better known ln 
English history as the Duke of Escalona, 
rendered military services to his country 
as well as civil, but in the War of the 
Buccession he was taken prisoner, and ex- 
changed for General Stanbope. He died 
in 1735, ffty-nine years old. His son suc= 
ceeded him as second Director of the 
Academy, and died in 1761, aged thirty= 
eight. To both, the Academy offered dis- 
tinguished funeral honors. See “Relación 
de las Exequias que la Real Acalemia 
Española celebró por el Excmo. Señor Mer- 
curio Antonio Lopez Pacheco, Marques de 
Villena su Direetor,'?eo., Madrid, 1738, dto 
and “Elogio Historico, ec, del Marques de 
Villena su Segundo Director, por D, Fran- 











248 DICTIONARY OF THE ACADEMY. — [PreroD ML 


But, cn the other hand, during the seventeenth century, 
the old language had been much abused. From the ap- 
pearance of Góngora no proper regard had been paid to 
the preservation of its purity or of its original 


Words z 
goines by — characteristics, by many of the most popular 
gorists, — authors that employed it. The Lafiniparla, as | 


Quevedo called the aflectation of his time, had brought in 
many Latin words and many strange phrases, wholly 
repugnant to the genias of the Spanish. Such words and 
constructions, too, had enjoyed much favor; and Lope de 
Vega, Calderon, and the other leading spirits, who pro- 
nounced them to be aflectations and refused directly to 
countenance them, yet occasionally yielded to the fashion 
of their time, in order to obtain. the applause which was 
sure to follow.* 

Both to receive the words that had been rightfully 
naturalized in the language, and to place a mark of disap- 
probation on those that were unworthy to be adopted, a 
Dictionary resting on authority was wanted. None such 
had been attempted in Spain. Indeed, during the whole 
of the preceding century, only one Spanish Dictionary of 
any kind had been produced that received, or deserved, 
the notice of the Academy. This was the work of Covar- 
rubias, whose “Tesoro,” first printed in 1611, is 
a curious book, full of learning, and, in the ety- 
mological part, valuable, but often conceited, and rarely 
showing philosophical acuteness in its definitions,? The 


Covarrubias. 


Ae 


and Clemencin (ed. D. Quixote, Tom. Y. 
Pp. 99, 292, and 357) gives a list of tho 
Latin, Ttalian, aud other words used by 
Cervantes, but not always naturalízed, on 
which, ín various notes elsewhere, he 
seems to look with leas favor than Gurcós 
doss., Quite as curlons as either are the 
words, which Blasco (Universal Redencion, 
1554) and Lopez Pinciano (El Pelayo, 1605) 
thought it mecessary to put Ínto vocabu= 
laries at the end of their respective poems, 
and to define for their readers, among 
which are fatal, mafal, fugaz, gruta, 
abandonar, adular, anhelo, aplauso, ar- 
rojarse, assedia, ete.,—all now familiar 
Castiltam. 

5 1t is impossible to open the works of 
Count Villamediana, and the other follow- 


h 


erá of Góngora, without findiog proof of 
their willingness to chango the language 
of Spanish literature ; but there is a small 
and very imperfeot list of the words and 
Phrases these innovators favored, to De 
found in the “Declamacion contra los 
Abusos de la Lengun Castellana,” by Var 
gas y Ponce, p. 150, which will al once 
¡llustrate their general purpose. 

1 here is an edition of the Tesoro of 
Covarrubias, by Benito Remigio Noydens, 
(Madrid, 1674, folio,) whieh is better and 
ampler than the original work, “Very little 
has been done since for Spanish etymolo= 
gles. The last of mue pretenslon was the: 
Y Diccionario de Etimologias,” by Don Ra- 
mon Cabrera, who died ín 1833, at the age 
ofseventy-nine, leaving his work in u crudo 

















py q z A 


254 POETRY IN THE TIME OF PHILIP THE FIFTH. [Prerop IL. 


useful and even important in their proper relations, can 
Dn neither create a new literature fora country, 
óiacale: nor, where the old literature is seriously decayed, 
po do much to revive it. The Spanish academies 
were no exceptions to this remark, All elegant culture 
had so nearly disappeared before the accession of the 
Bourbons, and there was such an insensibility to its value 
in those classes of society where it should have been 
most cherished, that it was plain the resuscitation must 
be the work of time, and that the land must long lie fal- 
low before another harvest could be gathered in. During 
the entire reign of Philip the Fifth, therefore, —a reign 
which, including the few months of his nominal abdica- 
tion in favor of his son, extends to forty-six years, — we 
shall find undeniable traces of this unhappy state of 
things ; few authors appearing who deserve to be named 
at all, and still fewer who demand a careful notice. 

Poetry, indeed, or what passed under that name, con- 
tinued to be written; and some of it, though little en- 
couraged by the general regard of the nation, was print- 

ed. Moraes, a Portuguese gentleman of rank, 

who had lived in Spain from his youth, wrote 
two heroic poems in Spanish; the first on the discovery 
of “The New World,” which he published in 1701, and 
the other on the foundation of the kingdom of Portugal, 
which was printed in 1712; both appearing originally in 
an unfinished state, in consequence of the author's impa- 
tience for fame, and the earlier of them still remaining 
so. But they have been long forgotten. Indeed, the 
first, which is full of extravagant allegories, soon found 
the fate which its author felt it deserved ; and the other, 
though written with great deference for the rules of art, 
and more than once reprinted, has not at last enjoyed a 
better fortune. 

The most amusing work of Moraes is a prose satire, 
printed in 1734, called “The Caves of Salamanca,*? where, 
in certain grottos, which a popular tradition supposed to 
exist, sealed up by magic, within the banks of the Tór- 
mes, he finds Amadis of Gaul, Oriana, and Celestina, and 
discourses with them and other fanciful personages on 














258 POETRY IN THE TIME OF PHILIP THE FIFTH. (Peron HL 


A single bright spot in the poetical history of this pe- 
riod is only the more remarkable from the gloom that sur- 
rounds it. Itisa satire attributed to Herbas, a 
person otherwise unknown, who disguised him- 
self under the name of Jorge de Pitillas, and printed it 
in a literary journal. 2 It was singularly successful for the 
time when it appeared; a circumstance the more to be 
noticed, as this success seems not to have inspired any 
similar attempt, or even to have encouraged its author 
to venture again before the public. The subject he chose 


Herbas. 


sonancias Metricas de la bien templada busco de las Obras Literarias de J. F. de 


Lyra de Apolo, que á la reverente Católica 
Accion de haver ido acompañando sus 
Magestades el Samo. Sacramento que ba á 
darse por viatico 4 una Enferma el Dia 28 
de Novembre, 1722, cantaron los mejores 
Cisnes de España,” áto. 1 give the title 


ol the first collection in full, as an indica= Spain, 


ton af the bad taste of its contents. Both 
collection», taken together, make mbout 
200 pages, and contalo poems by about 
fifty authors, generally in the worst and 
most affected skyle, —the very dregs of 
Gongorism. A volume entitled “Bnora y 
Humana Lyra, Poemas de Don Gabriel de 
Leon,” (Madrid, dto, 1734,) is Mit to go with 
the “Sagradas Flores," and — relating 
largely to the Holy Bacrament and other 
similar subjects — is much like 4t. 

One striking proof of the decay and 
neglect of letters in the reign ol Philip V. 
ls to be found in the small oumber of 
copies printed of books that might be 
reckoned of a popular character. Thus, 
in tie address of tho Printer to the Reader 
prefixed to the third edition of the “Cry= 
solia de Lidaceli,'? (1720, see ante, p. 122) 
he says: “Two hundred and fifiy copies 
have been printed, and the same ds done 
with other books, — some of them two 
hundred and Afty copies, and others one 
hundred or two hundred, so that the co= 
rivus may not fall of a chance to reud 
them." But if there were so few buyers 
und readers of “libros de entretenimiento,” 
what motive was there for writing them ? 
Jo fact and ín truth, they were not written, 

22 he “Sátira contra los Malos Eseri- 
tores desu Tiempo” is commonly attrib- 
uted to José Gerardo de Horbas; but 
Tapia (Olvilisacion, Tom. LV. p. 268) says 
Mt was written by José Cobo de la Torre, 
besides which it is inserted in the “Ke- 


Isla,” (Madrid, 1790, 12m0,) as if it were 
unquestionably Islas, 16 first appeared 
in the second edition of the sisth volume 
of the “Diario de los Literatos ;”=— the 
carllest periodical work in the spirit ol 
modera criticism that was published io 
und one so much in advance of the 
age that it did not survive lts second year, 
having heen began in 1737, and gone on 
one year and nine months, tíll 1t made 
seven small volumes. Ttwas in vaio that. 
ik was countenanced by the king, and 
favored by the leading persons ab court. 
Tt was too large a work; lt was a new 
thing, which Spaniards rarely like 5 and lt 
was seyere in its criticisms, so that the 
authors of the time generally took the 
feld agalnst it, and broke it down. 
Among the most severe assallante of the 
“ Diario * was Mayans y Siscar, who was 
much offended by an article on his “Ori 
genes de la Lengua Española? and re= 
plied by a volume, entitled “ Conversacion 
sobre el Diario de los Literatos de España 
la publicó D. Placido Verano,” (Madrid, 
1137,)—not, however, written with the 
gentle summer-like mildness intended to be 
announeed in his pseudonyme. Another or 
their ascallante was D. Vicente de la Ven- 
tura y Valdós, who attacked it io his 
“'Trinmvirato de Roma,” (Madrid, 1738,) 
the Aprodaciones to which are very long 
and as bitter ns the work itself. And yet 
another assallant was Añorbe y Corregel, 
the poor playwright, whose absard re- 
ligious drama, in three parts, “La Tutora 
de la Iglesia,” they had reviewed, (Tom. 
IV. p. 308,) and who auswered in tha 
preface to his equally absurd Zarzuela, 
Jupiter y Danae,” elaiming to stand on 
the same platform with Lope de Vega and 
Calderon, —as if he had the least right to 





Cuar. 1] POETRY IN THE TIME OF PHILIP THE FIFTH 259 


was fortunate, —the bad writers of his age, —and in 
discussing it he has spoken out boldly and manfully ; 
sometimes calling by name those whom he ridicules, 
and at other times indicating them so that they cannot 
be mistaken. His chief merits are the ease and simpli- 
city of his style, the pungency and justness of his satire, 
and his agreeable imitations of the old masters, espe- 
cially Persius and Juvenal, whom he further resembled 
in the commendable qualities of brevity and sententious- 
Ness. 


be there, except 50 far as he followed their 
extravagances and follies. Bat “Tray, 
Blanche, and Sweetheart— all the /ittle 
dogs” — barked at the “ Diario” and its 
editors as well as the rest; and so, as 1 
have sald, it failed of success. Other 
Periodical works appeared about the same 
time, such as the “Mercurio” by Mañer, 


To the same period with the Batiro of 
Pitillas and the “ Diario de los Literatos,” 
belongs the poem on “Dencallon,” by 
Alonso Verdugo de Castilla, Count of Tor- 
repalma. It is an imitation of Ovid, ln 
about slxty octave stanzas, somewhat re 
markable for its versification. But in 
a better period it would not be mo- 


Nifo's “ Diario Curioso,” eto. ; but they too ticed. 


were little encouraged. 








LA 


262 INFLUENCE OF FRANCE. [Perro UL. 

But when we speak of Spanish literature in the reign 
French iu- Of Philip the Fifth, we must never forget that the 
fuences. — influence 0f France was gradually becoming felt 
in all the culture of the country, The mass of the peo- 
ple, it is true, either took no cognizance of the coming 
change, or resisted it; and the new government willingly 
avoided whatever might seem to offend or undervalue 
the old Castilian spirit. But Paris was then, as it had 
long been, the most refined capital in Europe; and the 
courts of Louis the Fourteenth and Louis the Fifteenth, 
necessarily in intimate relations with that of Philip the 
Fifth, could not fail to carry to Madrid a tone which was 
already spreading of itself into Germany and the extreme 
North. 


French, in fact, soon began to be spoken in the elegant - 


society of the capital and the court;—a thing before 
unknown in Spain, though French princesses had more 
than once sat on the Spanish throne. But now it was a 
compliment to the reigning monarch himself, and courtiers 
strove to indulge init. Pitillas, under pretence of laugh- 
ing at himself for following the fashion, ridicules the 
awkwardness of those who did so, when he says, 
And French T talk; at least enough to know 
That neither ] vor other men more shrewd 
Can comprehend my words, though still endued 
With power to raise my heavy Spanish dongh. 
And Father Isla makes himself merry with the idea of 
a man who fancies he has married an Andalusian or Cas- 


“ Monarchia Hebrea,” Madrid, 1727, 2 tom., 
áto, En Haya, 1745, 4 tom., 120. Few 
books are more dull.— “ Comentarios de la 
Guerra de España hasta el Año 1725,” 
Genoa, no date, 2tom., 4to. Of the last 
there is a. poor continuation, bringing the 
history down to 1742, entitled, “ Continua- 
cion 4 los Comentarios, ec., por D. Joséph 
del Campo Raso? Madrid, 1756-09, 2 
tom., Alo. 

An important work for the history of 
Spanish Painting appeared in 1715-1125, 
which would be fully noticed here if 16 
were not so illawritten, but which, even 
such as it is, should not be entirely puesed 
over. Tt ís by Acisclo Antonio Palomino 





artist who was born in 1653, and died in 
1726. Ibis in two volumes follo; the last 
being divided into two parts, and ís fantas= 
tically entitled “El Museo Pictorico y 
Escala Optica,” beginning with an acconnk. 
of Paloting as an Art, and endiog with 
Lives of the Spanish Paínters. An ample 
account of the author and of bis work 
may be found in Cean Bermudez, (Diccio= 
nario, 1800, Tom. IV. pp. 29-41, anda 
still better one ta Stirling (Artists of Spain, 
1848, Vol. TIL pp. 1120-1134). Cean, ln 
his Prólogo, speaks tenderly of Palomino'a 
bad taste, remembering, mo doubt, how 
much he owed to his dilígence, Mr. Sttr 
ling, too, grucefully acknowledges his obli= 


y Velasco, “the Vasari of Spain,"—an  gations. 


A 























270 FEYJOÓ. [Parton TIL 


were, to an extraordinary and almost incredible degree, 
kept out of the country. On the other hand, errors, fol- 

lies, and absurdities sprang up and abounded, 
pop just as surely as darkness follows the exclusion 
clara of light. Few persons in Spain in the beginning 
of the eighteenth century were so well informed as not to 
believe in astrology, and fewer still «doubted the disas- 
trous influence of comets and eclipses.” The system of 
Copernicus was not only discontaged, but forbidden to be 
taught, on the ground that it was contrary to Scripture. 
The: philosophy of Bacon, with all the consequences that 
had followed it, was unknown, It was not, perhaps, true, 
that the healing waters of knowledge had been rolled 
backward to their fountain, but no spirit of power had 
descended to trouble them, and they had now been kept 
stagnant till life was no longer in them, and life could 
no longer be supported by them. It seemed as if the 
faculties of thinking and reasoning, in the better sense 
of these words, were either about to be entirely lost in 
Spain, or to be partly preserved only in a few scat- 
tered individuals, who, by the civil and ecclesiastical 
tyranny that oppressed them, would be prevented from 
diffusing even the imperfect light thai they themselves 
enjoyed. 

But it could not be so. The human mind cannot be 
permanently imprisoned; and it is an obvious proof of 
this consoling fact, that the intellectual emancipation of 
Spain was begun by a man of no extraordinary gifts, and 
one whose position gave him no extraordinary advantages 
for the undertaking to which he devoted his life, — the 
quiet monk, Benito Feyjod. He was born in 
1676, the eldest son of respectable parents in the 
northwestern part of Spain, who, contrary to the opin- 
ions of their time, did not think the law of primogeniture 
required them to devote their first-born wholly to the 
duty of sustaining the honors of his family, and enjoy- 


Feyjoo. 


16 In 1666, in the oficial relation of the ls given at the side of un equally detalled 
vsremonies at the interment of Philip IV. account of that monarch's gradual decay, 
the preceding year, we bave a detailed - from 1659, by disease. Monforte, Honras 
account of the comet of 1064, as having a Felipe 1V., Madrid, 4to, 1060, fl. 19-22, 
announced that monaroh's death; but it 














CHAPTER III. 


INTOLERANOE, OREDULITY, AND BIGOTRY. — REIGN OF FERDINAND 
THE SIXTH. — SIGNS OF IMPROVEMENT. — LITERATURE. — SALA 
DUEÑA. — MORALEJA. — ACADEMY OF GOOD TASTE. — VELAZQUEZ. 
— MAYANS. — NASARBE. 


Ir can hardly be said, that, during the forty-six years 
of the reign of Philip the Fifth, the intolerance which 
had so long blighted the land relaxed its iron grasp. 
The progress of knowledge might, indeed, be 
gradually and silently accumulating means to 
resist it, but its power was still unbroken, and its activity 
as formidable as ever. Louis the Fourteenth, in whom 
an old age of bigotry naturally ended a life of selfish 
indulgence, had counselled his grandson to sustain the 
Inquisition, as one of the means for insuring tranquillity 
to the political government of the country; and this ad- 
vice, not given without a knowledge of the Spanish char- 
acter, was, on the whole, acted upon with success, if not 
with entire consistency. 

At first, indeed, the personal dispositions of the king 
in relation to this mighty engine of state seemed some- 
what unsettled. When it was proposed:to him to cele- 
brate an auto de fé, as a part of the pageant suitable to 
the coming in of a new dynasty, the young monarch, fresh 
from the elegance of the court of Versailles, refused to 
sanction Yts barbarities by his presence. Even later he 
encouraged Macanaz, a person high in office, to publisb 
a work in defence of the crown against the overgrown 
pretensions of the Church, and at one time he went so far 


Intoleranoe. 



































E ] 


286 REFORMS ATTEMPTED. [Peron IL. 


. years, there was a new and considerable advancement 
oc in whatever tends to make life desirable, of 
the country. which the country on all sides gave token. 
The population, which had fled or died away, seemed to 
spring up afresh in places that oppression had made des- 
ert, and having regained something under the first of the 
Bourbons, it now, under the third, recovered in part the 
numbers it had lost in the days of the House of Anstria, 
by wars all over the world, by emigration, by the perse- 
eution of the Jews and the expulsion of the Moriscos, by 
bad legislation, and by the cruel spirit of religious intol- 
erance. The revenues in the same period were increased 
threefold, without adding to the burdens of the people; 
and the country seemed to be brought from a state of 
absolute bankruptey to one of comparative ease and 
prosperity. 1t was certain, therefore, that Spain was 
not falling to ruin, as it had been in the time of Charles 
the Second.* 

But all intellectual cultivation is slow of growth, and 
all intellectual reform still slower. The life and health 
infused into the country were, no dowbt, felt in every part 
of its physical system, reviving and renewing the powers 
that had been so long wasted away, and that at one 
period had seemed near to speedy dissolution, But it 
was obvions, that much time must still elapse before 
such healthful circulations could reach the national cul- 
ture generally, and a still longer time before they could 
revive that elegant literature, which is the bright, con- 
summate flower of all true civilization. Yet light was 
beginning to be seen. It was a dawn, if it was nothing 
more. 

The first striking effect produced by this movement in 
the reigns of Ferdinand the Sixth and Charles the Third 

was one quite in sympathy with the spirit of the 
Menta nation, then resisting the ecclesiastical abuses 
e. that had so long oppressed it, It was an attack 


4 Tapia, Tom. IV., pp. 124, etc, When itcounted but seven millions and a alí 
the Emperor Charles Y. came to the throne, 2 monstrous falling of, if we consider the 
Bpain counted ten and a balf millions of advancement of the rest of Burope during 
souls; ut the time of the peace of Utrecht, the same period. 


AS 



































298  CONTROVERSY WITH THE FRENCH SCHOOL. [Peron MIL. 


But, meanwbile, other attempts were making in other 
directions to revive the literature of the country; some 
by restoring a taste” for the old national poetry, some by: 
attempting to accommodate everything to the French 
doctrines of the age of Louis the Fourteenth, and some 
by an ill-defined, and often perhaps unconscious, struggle 
to unite the two opinions, and to form a school whose 
character should be unlike that of either, and yet in ad- 
vance of both. 

In the direction of the earlier national poetry little was 
done by original efforts, but something was attempted in 

other ways. Huerta, a fierce, but inconsistent, 

adversary of the French innovations, printed, 
in 1778, a volume of poems almost entirely in the old 
manner; but it was too much marked with the bad taste 
of the preceding century to enjoy even a temporary sue- 
cess, and its author, therefore, could boast of no follower 
of any note in a path which was constantly less and less 
trodden.Y 

On the other hand, more was done with effect to recall 
the memory of the old masters themselves. Lo- 
pez de Sedano, between 1768 and 1778, pub- 
lished his “ Spanish Parnassus,?” in nine volumes ; a work 
which, though ill digested and not always showing good 
taste in'its selections and criticisms, is still a rich mine 
of the poetry of the country in its best days, and con- 
tains important materials for the history of Spanish litera- 
ture from the period of Boscan and Garcilasso Y 
Sanchez went further back, and in 1779 offered 


Sedano. 


Sanchez. 


31 4 Poesías de Don Vicente Garcia de la 
Huerta)? Madrid, 1478, 12m0, avd a 
second edition, 1788; opening, as its prin- 
cipal claim to notice, with the “Endy- 
mion,? a short heroio poem, Grat published 
separately in 1756, in dto, but very feeble 
and commonplace. —% La Perromnchia,” 
3 mock-heroic on the loves and quarrels uf. 
suodry dogs, by Franciseo Nieto Molina, 
(Madrid, 1765, 12m0,) is too poor to de 
serve notice, though it is an attempt to 
give greater currency to the earlier national. 
verse, — the redondillas, 

34, J. Lopez de Sedano's “ Parnaso. 
Español” (Madrid, Saneha, 1768-78, 


9 tom,, 12m0) was the subject of a good 
deal of criticism soon after it appeared. 
“The clab of the elder Moratín to be 
noticed immediately — was much dissatis> 
fed with it (Obras Póstumas de N. FP, 
Moratin, Londres, 1825, 1200, p. xxv.)3— 
Yriarte in 1778 printed a dislogue on 1, 
“Donde las dan las toman,” full of se 
verity (Obras, 1805, Tom. VI.) ;— and in 
1785 Sedano replied, under the name of 
Juan Maria Ohavero y Eslava de Ronda, 
in four volumes, 12mo, published al Má- 
laga, and called the “Colóquics de Ea- 
pina.” 








300 


MORATIN THE ELDER. 


—— 


[Person MIL. 


minister of state, who rarely forgot the cause of intel 
lectual culture; and by the Infante Don Gabriel de Bour- 
bon, the accomplished translator of Sallust; and each of * 
these persons was thus able, through Moratin, to exercise 
an influence on the state of letters in Spain.» ' 

His first public effort of any consequence, except a 
drama that will be noticed hereafter, was his “ Poeta,” 


which appeared in 1764, 


It consists entirely of his own 


shorter poems, and is among the many proofs how small 
was the interest then felt in literature, since, thongh the 
whole collection fills only a hundred and sixty pages, 16 
was found expedient to publish it in ten successive num- 
bers, in order to give it a fair opportunity to be cireu- 
lated and read.? This was followed, the next year, by 
the “ Diana,” a short didactic poem, in six books, on the 


Chase, and subsequently by 


a narrative poem on the De- 


struction of his Ships by Cortés, to which if we add a 
volume published by the piety of his son in 1821, and 
containing, with a modest and beautiful life of their au- 
thor, a collection of poems, most of which had not before 
been published, we shall have all of the elder Moratin 


that can now interest us, 


Tts value is not great; and yet portions of it are not 


likely to be soon forgotten. 


The “Epic Canto,” as he 


calls it, on the bold adventure of Cortés in burning bis 


25 Whether the Infante Don Gabriel can 
falriy claim the authorshlp of the notes 
lo the trauslation of Sallust, of which a 
magníficent edition was printed by Ibarra, 
dn folio, ín 1772, ls uncertaín; for he was 
only twenty years old when it appeared, 
and he had for his tutor the learned Perez 
Bayer. 
elegant necomplishménte and decided lit- 
erary tastes, s0 that his death, in 1788, 
was a misfortune to Spain, heavilY felt 
Hhrough the relgn óf his elder brother, 
which began the same year. 

% There were great numbers of poetical 
pamphiets, in 18mo, published in Madrid 
during the reign of Charles TIL, — nearly 


But he was a prince of various 


all worthless. I have forty or fifiy such, 
including most of the yorks of Moratin 
ho elder, several by Gregorio Salas, eto. ; 
but one of them — '* El Parto de los Mon- 


tes, por Doña Maria Josefa de Cespedes” 
(1786, pp. 14)—is a satire on the rest, 
setting forth that Apollo had sent a plague 
oErats —descendante of the ridieulus mus 
of Horace — to ent them all up. Moratín 
the younger, also, in bis “Derrota. de los 
Pedantes,” (1789, pp. 45-50) makes him= 
sell merry with these poemitas, as he calls 
tiem, which were chiefly what we denomis 
ate “Occasional Poema,” A century 
earlier all these trifles would have come 
out ln quarto; but the whole literature of. 
the country was shrunk and dyrarfed to 
the same proportions. Indeed, ín the first 
half of the eighteenth century even theso 
Poor, starved little tracts were rare, while 
in the reign of Charles IV, they gradually 
swelled to be small volumes in duodecimo 
or octavo. 














Cuar. 1V.] YRIARTE. 305 


the Infante, afterwards Charles the Fourth, he was dis- 
tinguished at court for his accomplishments both in an- 
cient and modern literature. Soon after this period he 
received a place under the government; and, though his 
employments, both in the Office of Foreign Affairs and 
in that of the Department of War, were ofean intellectual 
nature, still his time was much occupied by them, and 
his opportunities for the indulgence of a poetical taste 
were much diminished. Besides this, he had rivalries 
and troubles with Sedano, Melendez, Forner, and some 
others of his contemporaries, and was summoned before 
the Inquisition in 1786, as one tainted with the new 
French philosophy. The result of all these trials and 
interruptions was, that when, after his death, which oc- 
curred in 1791, his works were collected and published, 
more than half of the eight small volumes through which 
they were spread was found to consist of: translations 
and personal controversies; the translations made with 
skill, and the quarrels managed with spirit and wit, 
but neither of them important enough to be now remem- 
bered. 

His original poetry is better. Itis marked by purity 
of style, regularity, and elegance, but not by power or 
elevation. The best of what.is merely miscellaneous is 
to be found in eleven Epistles, with one of which, ad- 
dressed to his friend Cadahalso, he dedicates to him a 
translation of Horace's “* Art of Poetry.” But in two 
departments, where his natural taste led him to labor 
with a decided preference, he apparently made more 
effort than in any other, and had greater success. 

The first of these was didactic poetry. His poem “On 
Music ” — a subject which he chose from his considera- 
ble proficiency in that art — appeared in 1780, and was 
soon favorably known, not only at home, but in Italy and 
France. It consists of five books, in” which he discusses 
with philosophical precision the elements of music; mu- 
sical expression of different kinds, but especially martial 
and sacred; the music of the theatre; that of society ; 
aud that of man in solitude. The poem is written in 
the free, national silva, irregular, but flowing, and no 

* 

















CHAPTER V. 


BCHOOL OF SALAMANCA. — MELENDEZ VALDÉS. — GONZALEZ. — FOR- 
NER. — IGLESIAS. — CIENFUEGOS. — JOVELLANOS. — MUÑOZ. — 
XESCOIQUIZ. — MORATIN THE YOUNGER. — QUINTANA. 


Bork the parties, into which Spanish literature was 
divided about the middle of the eighteenth century, erred 
by running into those extremes of opinion which are 
rarely right in anything and never in matters of taste. 
Moratin was wrong in speaking with contempt of such 
poetry as the fine old ballad of “' Calaynos,” and Huerta 
was equally wrong when he said, that the “ Athalie ” of 
Racine might be fit to be represented by boarding-schñool 
misses, but was fit for nothing else.! It was natural, 
therefore, that another party, or school, should be formed, 
which should endeavor to avoid the excesses of both its 
predecessors, and unite their merits; one that senor or 
should not be insensible to the power and rich- Belamanca. 
ness of the old writers of the time of the Philips, and 
yet, escaping from their extravagances and bad taste, 
should mould itself in some degree according to the 
severe state of literary opinion then prevailing on the 
Continent. Such a school in fact appeared at Salamanca 
in the latter part of the reign of Charles the Third and 
the beginning of that of Charles the Fourth. 

Its proper founder was Melendez Valdés, who was born 
in Estremadura, in 1754, and at the age of eighteen was 
sent to study at Salamanca, where, if he did not meendes 
pass the larger remaining portion of his life, he Valdés. 
passed at least its happiest and best years.? As a versi- 


1 N. F. Moratin, Desengaño, p. 34.— at Salamanca in some departmenta of study 
Huerta, Teatro Hespañol, Prólogo, p. lxxix. while Melendez was there. But still things 
2 Considerable improvement took place remained In a very torpid state. 












































































































































(Pero ML. 


old short verse which was always popular. But when, 
in 1786, he offered his comedy for representation, the sim= 
plicity of the action, so unlike the involved plots on | 


358 MORATÍN THE YOUNGER. 


which the common people still loved to exercise their, 
extraordinary ingenuity, and the very quietness and deco- 
rom that roigned throughout it, alarmed the actors for its 
success, Objections were made, and these, with other 
antoward cireumstances, prevented it from being brought. 
out for four years. When it finally appeared, it was re- 
ceived with a moderate applause, which satisficd neither 
of the extreme partiós into which the audiences at Madrid 
were then divided, and yet was not perhaps unjust to the. | 
comedy, whose action is somewhat cold and languid, 
though its poetical merits, in other respects, are far from | 
being inconsiderable. 

But, whatever may have been the effect ón: the public, 
the effect on its author was decisive. He had been heard. | 
His merit had been, in part at least, acknowledged ; and | 
attacks he now determined to bring the pretensions of | 
Comella. — the popular dramatists, who were disgracing the. 1 
stage, to the test of a public trial on the stage itself. 
For this purpose, he wrote his “ New Play,” as he called | 
it, which is the exposition of the motives of a penniless 
author for composing one of the noisy, extravagant dra- 
mas then constantly acted with applause, and an account 
of its first representation; —the whole related by the 
author himself and his friends, in a coffec-house contigu= 
ous to the theatre, at the very moment the fatal represen= 
tation is supposed to be going on. 

Tt is in two acts; and the catastrophe — which consists: 
of the confusion of the author and his family at the failure 
of his performance —is brought on with skill, and with 
an effect much greater than the simplicity of the action. 
had promised. The piece, therefore, was received with a. 
favor which even Moratin and his friends had not antici- | 
pated. The poet, who is its victim, was recognized at. 
once to be Comella, Some of the inferior characters, 
whether justly or not, were appropriated to other per= 
sons who figured at the time, and the “New Play” was 
acknowledged to be a brilliant satire ; — severe indeed, 




















364 


between five and six hundred, among 
which are Calderon's “ Life is a Dream,” 
Alarcon's “ Weaver of Segovia,” and many 
more of the best dramas of the old school. 
Doran, in a note to his Preface to Ramon 
de la Cruz, (Tom. I. p. v.,) intimates that 
this ostracism was in some degree the 
result of the influence of those who sus- 
tained tho French doctrines. And yet 
French plays had been peculiarly perse- 
cuted only fifteen or twenty years earlier ; 
for Bourgoing, who travelled ín Spain lu 
1782-1785, says: “Ils ont été plus scan- 
dalisés du Misantrope et de P'Athalle qu'ils 
ne sont des indecences de leurs Baynetes.” 


TROUBLES IN THE THEATRE. 


[Peron TIL. 


Voyage, ed. 1789, Tom. IT. p.368. But per- 
haps the absurdity is to be partly explained 
by a personal feud between Moratín tho 
younger and General Cuesta, president of 
a board to regulate the theatres, for which 
see Biblioteca de Autores Españoles, Tom. 
IL, 1846, pp. xxx., xxl. 

'The number of plays acted or published 
between 1700 and 1825, if not to be com= 
pared with that of the corresponding 
period preceding 1700, is still large. 1 
think that, ín the list given by Moratin, 
there are about fourteen hundred ¿ nearly 
all after 1760. 


























APPENDIX. 








































































































Arr. B.] 


VOL. XIX. 


ON THE ROMANCEROS. 


De Flores, porque soy digno 
De ser por vos laureado. 
Yo junte en el las hazañas 
Que en los siglos ya passados 
Hizieron en nuestra España 
El Cid, Ordoño y Bernardo. 
Pinte destruyda España 
Y luego puse el reparo 
De muchos grandes varones 
Sin los arriba nombrados. 
Puse al Conde Alfonso Enriquez, 
Primer rey de Lusitanos, 
Tambien a Fernan Gonzalez, 
Rasura, y Arias Gonzalo. 
Puse los hechos famosos 
De los Moros Africanos, 
Que, por años setecientos, 
Tuvieron nombre de Hispanos 
Hasta que ganó a Granada 
El inclito Don Fernando, 
Y Don Felipe Segundo 
Que oy governa el pueblo Hispano. 
Puse sus motes y insignias, 
Sus colores y tocados, 
Sus zambras, cañas, y fiestas, 
Y de Moras los recaudos, 
Las amorosas razones, 
Los zelos, ansias y enfados, 
Los favores, las cautelas 
De los Moros enamorados. 
Junte, en nombre de Riselo, 
De Lisardo y de Belardo, 
Mil vocablos pastoriles 
Bien compuestos y ordenados ; 
Una amorosa porfa 
De zagal enamorado, 
Un Duque y un Conde puesto 
En abito disfragado, 
Ora que se finge cayde, 
Ora el grand pastor Albano 
Que en las riberas del Tormés 
Apacienta su ganado. 
Letrillas, Motes, Canciones 
Y algunos versos glosados, 
Que al postrer acento dizen 
El contento bien o daño. 
Procure con mi sudor 
Y con inmenso trabajo 
Juntar diversos Romances 
Que andavan discarriados. 
Y hize que de un discurso 
Se viesse principio y cabo, 
Lo que el musico no haze, 

18 


409 








Arr. B] ON THE ROMANCEROS. 41 


containing hol, Parts, * que otras veces ha sido impresa,” (1 iy 

I believe, to those of Madrid, 1595, and Toledo, 1595,) the * Licencia” 
for Parte VIIL, dated 30 Sept. 1596, is for that part alone. They 
match well together, Parte VIL making one hundred and sixty= 
eight leaves, and Parte VIIL making one hundred and thirty-two. 
Both go into the Romancero General, as Parts VIL and VIH 

The Ninth and last Part, which 1 also possess, Madrid, 1597, long 
18mo, fF. 144, has jts “ Aprovacion,” which is by the well-known Juan 
Rufo, dated 4 Sept,, 1597, and ¡ts “ Tasa)” 22 March, 1596, Buttho 
Aprovacion says it is “intitulado Flores del Parnaso, repartido en dos 
Partes,” and the Tassa calls 16 “ Otava (sic) y Novena Parte de 
Flores del Parnaso,” while its own title is “ Flor de varios Romances 
diferentes de todos impressos, Novena Parte;” although many of 
them had been printed before, as we know. It corresponds as far 
as to £ 135 with the Ninth Part of the Romancero General, but 
diflers afterwards to the end on f. 144. b. 

V. From these nine Parts was constructed, with slight changes 
and additions, the famous * Romancero General,” whose first edi- 
tion was published at Madrid, in 1600, 4to, the Tassa being dated 16 
Dec., 1599. It was printed by Luis Sanchez, and makes ff. 368. 16 
is excessively rare, but 1 found one copy of it in the National or 
Royal Library at Madrid, and another in the Biblioteca Comunale 
at Bologna. The next edition, which 1 possess, and which is 
marked by very slight additions and changes, was printed by «Fuan 
Godinez de Millis, Medina del Campo, 1602, áto, 362. The 
third, printed at Madrid by Juan de la Cuesta, 1604, áto, ff, 499, 
contains a reprint of the nine Parts with four others added, making 
thirteen in all. And the last, which is a mero reprint of the preced- 
ing, is, however, announced as “añadidido y emendado por Pedro 
Flores,” whom we have seen as the editor of Parts 1Y., V., and VI, 
but who can hardly have been the editor or collector of the whole 
thirteen. This fourth and last edition appeared at Madrid, printed 
page for page from that of 1604, by Juan de la Cuesta, 1614, 4to, 
But Miguel de Madrigal had previously published (Valladolid, 1605, 
4to, ff. 220) “La Segunda Parte del Romancero General;” of 
which, however, the last hundred leaves contain canciones and other 
poems in the Italian manner. 

+ — The publication of so many collections of ballads in the last half 
of the sixteenth century and the beginning of the seventeenth 
leaves no doubt that ballads had become known in all classes of 
society in Spain, and were finding fayor in the highest, But the 
'' Romanceros Generales” were too large for popular use. Smaller 
Ballad-Books, therefore, were printed, such as Castaña's “ Nuevos 
Romances,” 1604; —the “Jardin de Amadores,” by Juan de la Puente, 
1611;—the “ Primavera” of Pedro Arias Perez, made with much judg- 


MY 


Á 








Arr. B] ON THE ROMANCEROS. 413 


was soon apparent, Jacob Grimm published at Vienna, in 1815, a 
small collection of the best old ballads, chiefly from the Romancero 
of 1550-55; and in 1817, C. B. Depping published at Leipzig a 
larger one, containing above three hundred ballads, with a Preface 
and notesin German, —an excellent selection, which was republished 
first with slight variations at London, in 1825, by Salvá, and secondly 
with more changes and large additions at Leipzig by Depping him- 
self and by A. A. Galiano, to which, in 1846, Wolf added a curious 
but slight volume, collected from the * Rosas ” of Timoneda. These 

“avere all publications of great merit, and they did more than all that 
had been done previously to make the old Spanish ballads known 
beyond the limits of Spain, especially by calling forth the admirably 
spirited but very free translations by Lockhart ín 1829, and the 
interesting historically-arranged French versions in prose of nearly 
three hundred hy Damas Hinard, in 1844, — perhaps, too, those in 
German of Emanuel Geibel and Paul Heyse, in 1852. 

Effect, however, and good effert, was, before long, produced at 
home in Spain. Don Agustin Duran, between 1828 and 1832, 
published five volumesf: ballads, which were reprinted with a few 
unimportant changes by Ochoa, at Paris, in 1838, and by Pons, at 
Barcelona, in 1840. But Duran felt that his work was an imperfect 
one, and its success did not, therefore, prevent him from laboring long 
and faithfully to make it more complete. The result was, that, in 
1849 and 1851 he published as the tenth and sixteenth volumes of 
Ribadeneyra's Biblioteca a “ Romancero General ” which makes all 
he had done before seem inconsiderable. Tt comprises above nine 
teen hundred ballads, instead of the twelve hundred in his previous 
collections, and their judicious and tasteful arrangement, the biblio- 
graphical details that accompany them, and the historical and other 
notes by which they are explained, are indeed excellent. All that 
had ever been done before for the elucidation of this difficult and 
interesting department of Spanish literature, if put together, would 
not be equal to what has been achieved in this single work, More 
ballads, it is true, — many more, — might have been gathered from 
the old Romanceros, as well as from modern sources, and more, no 
doubt, will be brought together hereafter. But no more can be 
asked of one person than Señor Duran has here accomplished. 

Another work, however, of the same class, and quite as interest- 
ing to most readers of Spanish literature, was published at Berlin, 
in 1856, 1 refer to the “ Primavera y Flor de Romanees, 6 Colee- 
cion de los mas viejos y mas populares Romances Castellanos, publi- 
cada con una Introduccion y Notas por Don Fernando José Wolf 
y Don Conrado Hoffmann.” Itis in two small, very neatly printed 
volumes, and contains something more than two hundred ballads. 
The number, compared with that in the ample Romancero of Du- 


414 ON THE ROMANCEROS. [Arr. B. 


ran, is small; but they are selected with great judgment from what 
is oldest and best, richest and most attractive, in the earliest collec- 
tions, and are accompanied with a learned Preface, notes, and various 
readings, much after the manner of an ancient classic; — all in 
good Castilian, and in excellent taste. In the skill of editorship 
it is materially in advance of the work of Duran or of Depping. 

These two collections, taken together, leave little to be desired, 
and probably not much of value to be hereafter obtained, in the 
poetry to which they are devoted. Duran's contains nearly all that 
those who wish to make exhausting investigations will seek. Wolf 
will satisfy those who seek the choicest and most beautiful, and ask 
to have them presented in their best forms. 














Ñ 


418 THE CENTON EPISTOLARIO. 


ing magic, — Barrientos, as Cibdareal would have us 
ra op E EEE 
once, because he would not take the trouble to es 
e a 
tos, his own account of this very matter. Tt'isin a learned tr 
on Divination, which he wrote by order of Joln the ; 
addressed to that monarch; and in the Preface to the Second Part 
of which he declares that he burnt the books in question 3 
royal order, and intimates, that, in his own opinion, they sho 
been spared.  “ And this book,” he says, speaking of the one 
* Raziel,” to which 1 have alluded, (ante, Vol. L p. 325, “this 
book is the one, which, after the death of Don Enrique [de y” 
you, as king, commanded me, your servant and creature, to burn, 
MA vida de or la o 


vants ;—a matter 'hich, as in many other things, yon 


and still show the e aa your imoss lus ao! 
the Christian religion. And, although pa 
still, for other respects, it is good in some way to preserve such 
books, provided they are in the hands and power of good, trust- 
worthy persons, who will take heed that they be read by none but 
wise men,” etc,; —a very different account certainly from the one 
given in the letter of Cibdarcal, and one which, being addressed to 
the king, who was necessarily acquainted with the whole transac- 
tion, can hardly have been untrue. É 

10. The most considerable event recorded in the Letters of Cib- 
dareal, and one of the most considerable occurrences in Spain dur- 
ing the fifteenth century, is the execution of the Constable Alvaro 
de Luna, at Valladolid, June 2,1453. The Bachelor says, he was 
with the king in that city the day it happened and the night pre- 
ceding; that the king showed great irresolution as to the fulfilment 
of the sentence up to the last moment; that he had a sorrowful and 
sleepless night before it occurred; and that nobody dared to tell 
him the execution was absolutely over till he had eaten his dinner; 
— adding to these striking statements sundry picturesque local 
details, as if they had come within his own knowledge by his wit= 
nessing. the execution, Now the truth is, that the king was nok in 
Valladolid on that day, nor for some days before and after; and it 
would have been a very hard-hearted thing if he had been there at 
the moment when his old friend and favorite minister of state, to 
whom he never ceased to be attached, was brought to the scaffold, 
in order to satisfy the turbulent nobility whom he had oppressed. 
The king was in fact, then at the siege of Maqueda, a little town 
northwest of Toledo, above eighty miles off, as appears by his letters 
still extant, dated May 29, June 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc.; so that many of 
the circumstances recorded in Cibdareal's letter (the 103d) are 























Are: 0] THE CENTON EPISTOLARIO. PT 


Now, if itis thus admitted, and even charged, that the somowhat 
ample passages about the Vera family in Letters 2, 8, and 37, 
were in fact forged and interpolated, and that they were adjusted 
with such a perfectly callida junctura to their respective places 
by Vera y Zuñiga as to leave no botch or inequality in their style 
that should betray their spurious origin, 1 submit, that the same: 
Vera y Zuñiga was both able to forge the whole hundred and five 
letters, and, from his entire disregard of truth, was capable of doing 
it. Moreover, I think it would have been nearly as easy for him to 
have done this as to do all he is admitted to have done; and that it 
would have been more in consonance with his known habits; for, 
having already forged four or five books for the same purpose, it 
would be quite natural for him to forge one more. 

The final result, therefore, at which 1 have arrived, after consid. 
ering the whole matter anew, and reading the article of the Mar- 
ques de Pidal, is, that it was clearly for the interest of Vera y Zu- 
ñiga, and that it fell in exactly with the known promptings of his 
personal vanity, and with the course and nature of his previous 
similar frauds for the same object, to prepare and print, with a 
false date, such a forgery as the Centon Epistolario; —and 1 believe 
he didit. This, 1 understand, is now become the opinion of most 
of the persons in Spain who are skilled in such questions, and com- 
petent to adjudicate them. Certainly, in 1851, the learned. Editors 
of the “ Cancionero de Baena” which was published under the 
generons auspices of the Marques de Pidal himself, believed the 
whole book to be a forgery of somebody, for they say (p. 684, note 
exviii.) that “there are wellfounded reasons for supposing that his 
[Cibdareal's] collection of letters is entirely made up from the 
Chronicle” [of John 11.7; and the learned translators of this pres- 
ent History go further, and conclude their remarks on the whole 
question, by declaring their belief (Tom. IV., 1856, p. 408) “ that 
the Epistolario is the exclusive work of the Conde de la Roca.” 1 
ought, perhaps, to add, as the opinion of these last editors, that the 
style of the Centon Epistolario, if carefully examined, shows that it 
has not come down from the age of John 1, At this conclusion 1 
had, of course, arrived, when 1 prepared the preceding Appendix, a 
dozen or more years ago ; for, without going into a rigorous serutiny 
of syntax and phraseology, —a task to which, in the early Spanish, 
l am not competent, — even a foreigner, if he has been aceustomed 
to the Spanish Chronicles of the fifteenth century, can, 1 think, see 
that the archaisms of the pretended Bachelor are often overdone, 
and that the general coloring, tone, and sentiment of his Letters are 
not uniformly those of the period when he is claimed to have lived. 

l have corrected the preceding Appendix, in a few unimportant 
particulars, from suggestions made by the Marques de Pidal in his 


cano. 


422 THE CENTON EPISTOLARIO. EArr. O 


article relating to it, and 1 offer him my acknowledgments for them. 
But 1 owe him still more grateful acknowledgments for having 
made it so plain to me that the “ Centon Epistolario ” is really and 
wWholly the work of Don Antonio de Vera y Zuñiga, Conde de la 
Boca, who died in 1658,—a little more than two centuries after 
the date of the last of the letters of which the “ Epistolario ” is 
composed. 








Arr. D.] ON THE BUSCAPIÉ. 425 


it ceased, except among those.who were interested in the details of 
the life of Cervantes* 

But in 1847 the whole subject came up afresh, Don Adolfo de 
Castro, a young Andalusia gentleman, much devoted to researches 
in early Spanish literature, and the author of several curious his- 
torical works, which give proof of his industry, declared that he 
had accidentally found a copy of the Buscapié. In 1848 he pub- 
lished it at Cadiz, in a duodecimo volume, with a body of very 
Jearned notes, — the text, in large type, making forty-six pages, and 
the notes one hundred and cighty-eight pages, which, if printed 
with the same type, would make above two hundred and fifty. 

Tn the Preface, Don Adolfo declares, that the Buscapié he thus 
publishes was printed from a manuseript which he had obtained 
from the library of Don Pascual de Gándara, a lawyer of the city 
of San Fernando, which library, apparently after the death of its 
owner, had been brought, less than three months before, to the city 
of Cadiz, the residence of Don Adolfo, to be publicly sold; — that 
the title of the manuscript, which purports throughout to be the 
work of Cervantes, is “The very pleasant little Book, called the 
Squib, in which, besides its much and excellent Learning, are ex- 
plained all the hidden and unexplained Matters in the Ingenious 
Knight, Don Quixote de la Mancha, written by a certain Cervantes 
de Saavedra;” —that the manuscript in question is not in the 
handwriting of Cervantes, but, as appears by a memorandum fol- 
lowing the title, is a copy made at Madrid, February 27, 1606, for 
Agostin de Molina, son of Argote de Molina, and that it had sub= 
sequently come into the possession of the Duke of Lafoes, of the 
royal family of Braganza; —that it contains no allusion whatever 
disrespectful to the Emperor Charles the Fifth, for whom, as Don 
Adolfo believes, Cervantes had a sincere admiration ;— that it was, 
according to the Aprobación of Gutierre de Cetina, June 27, 1605, 
and that of Thomas Gracian Dantisco, on the 6th of Angust fol- 
lowing, prepared for the press, but that it was not in fact printed, 
or it would not have been needful to make a copy of itin manuscript 
the next year; — and that the true and real object of the Squib 
was, not to attract attention to the Don Quixote, but to defend that 
work against many persons accounted learned, who, as Don Adolfo 
suggests, had attacked it with some severity. 

In the Buscapié itself, which immediately follows these statements, 
Cervantes represents himself as riding on his mule one day upon 


* Don José Mor de Fuentes, in his '“Elo- of his palaces, both in Araojuez and Ma- 
gio de Miguel de Cervantes, etc., Barce- drid, for the Buscapié, but bad found no 
lona, 1835, suys, that, being very lntimate copy of lt, und 1o trace lu the catalogues, 
with the Conde de Baceda, fhen living, he old or recent, that a copy had ever existod 
hud songht most carefally in the libraries in elther of them. 

















EEE 
e 
Heb 


El 





19 T suspect Don Adolfo may have made“ Conde Lucanor,* 
another little mistake here ; for have bad oriticism in mind, T 
Gtcaslon, since Trend his note, to read the proverb in any form 6n amy o 








Ave. D.] ON THE BUSCAPIÉ. 433 


The result of the whole was, that he disingenucnsly and silently 
changed his position entirely, and thus admitted quite oa to 
show that he had never any ground to stand upon. 

«However, such «8 his paper was, Imade a full answer to itin the 
Spanish translation of this History (Tom. IV. p. 218), showing, T 
think, that each of the statements in which he opposed what 1 had 
said was without any suflicient foundation. A reply so ample was 
not, 1 believe, needed anywhere out of Spain; for 1 think out of 
Spain the Buscapié has found few adherents, and 1 have therefore 
mot reproduced it here, Nor do 1 now suppose that at the time 
it appeared, which was several years after it was «worillen, such a 
reply was wanted in Spain itself When the Buscapié was first 
published, in 1848, and when the first edition of this History was 
published, in 1849, the general opinion in Spain, in some degree, 
favored Don Adolfo's claims. Quintana, Pidal, Mora, Mesonero, 
and other men of letters in Madrid, it was well understood, be- 
lieved the Buscapié to be probably a genuine work of Cervantes, 
and Mora defended it publiely as such so soon as it appeared. 
But the judgment of the more competent and discreet among those 
whose opinion would be most valued, soon turned the current 
strongly in an opposite direction; and now, 1 believe, few careful 
eritics, in Spain or out of it, differ from the decision of the learned 
editors of the translation of this work published at Madrid, in 
1857, who prononnced it “a literary toy of Señor Castro,” — 
un juguete literario del Señor Castro. Such, indeed, I have always 
believed it to be, since 1 first read it, nor do 1 find it needful, in 
consequence of anything that has been said on the subject, to alter 
an iota of the statements or reasons that I adduced in 1849 to prove 
it such, 

But touching the manuscript of the Buscapié, which Don 
Adolfo de Castro claims to have bought in 1847, and on whose 
genuineness so much depends, it may be proper here to add a 
word. In 1851, Don Bartolomé José Gallardo — whom Señor 
Castro, in 1848, had himself praised as “el muy docto filologo 
Español” — summoned him, publicly to exhibit his manuscript 
to experts or an academical commission; adding that a member 
of the Academy of History who had seen it had assured him, 
Señor Gallardo, that it was a coarse, foolish, bungling forgery, — 
“¿una fiecion ruda, necia y chapuzera.” (See pp. 53 and 88 of a 
pamphlet, ridiculing the elaims of Castro's Buscapié to be the work 
of Cervantes, and entitled “ Zapatazo a Zapatilla y a su falso 
Buscapié un Puntillazo, por Don B.J. Gallardo,” Madrid, 1851, 
which may be translated, “ A Spanking for the little Forger, Ed 
a Kick at his false Buscapió; — Zapata E e 3 
A o e A Ve 


VOL, 11 











434 ON THE BUSCAPIÉ. [Arr. D 


cap. xxii. $ 463, and again in his Historias Fabulosas, p. 23.) 
Gallardo died old in 1852; but this demand on Don Adolfo de 
Castro's honor has been left ten years without reply. The manu- 
script of the Buscapié has not been produced. Don Adolfo has, 
in fact, suffered judgment against him to go by default. 


APPENDIX, E. 


ON THE DIFFERENT EDITIONS, TRANSLATIONS, AND 
IMITATIONS OF THE “DON QUIXOTE.” 


(Sco Vol. IL p. 140, note, and p. 144, note.) 


WHATEVER relates to the “Don Quixote” of Cervantes is so 
interesting, that 1 will add here such an account of its different 
editions, translations, and imitations as may serve, in some degree, 
to give the just measure of 1ts extraordinary popularity, not only in 
Spain, but all over Christendom. 

The first edition of the First Part of Don Quixote, of which 1 
have a copy, was printed with this title: “El Ingenioso Hidalgo, 
Don Quixote de la Mancha, compuesto por Miguel de Cervantes 
Saavedra, dirigido al Duque de Bejar, Marques de Gibraleon, ete. 
Año 1605, Con Privilegio, ete. En Madrid, por Juan de la 
Cuesta,” dto, in one volume. Three editions more appeared in the 
same year, namely, one at Madrid, one at Lisbon, and the other at 
Valencia. These, with another at Bruscels, in 1607, — five in all, 
—are the only editions that appeared till he took it in hand to 
correct some of its errors. But he did this, as 1 have intimated, 
very imperfectly and carelessly. Among other changes, he aban- 
doned the division of the volume into four parts or books, but did 
not take the trouble to remove from the text the proofs of such a 
division, as may be seen at the end of Chapters VIUL, XIV., and 
XXVIL, where the work was divided, and where, in all our 
editions, the proofs of this division still remain. Such corrections, 
however, as he saw fit to make, with sometimes a different spelling 
of words, appeared in the Madrid edition of 1608, 4to; of which 1 
have a copy. This edition, though somewhat better than the first, 
is yet ordinary ; but, as the one containing Cervantes's only amend- 
ments of the text, it is more valued and sought after than any other, 
and is the basis on which all the good impressions since have been 

After this, an edition at Milan, 1610, and one at Brussels, 










Are. E] EDITIONS OF THE DON QUIXOTE. 437 


Don Vicente de los Rios, prefixed. Tt has been several times res 
printed, though not without expressions of disapprobation, especially 
at the indiscriminate admiration of Los Rios, who found, among 
other opponents, a very resolute one in a Spaniard by the name of 
Valentine Foronda, who, in 1807, printed a thin octavo volume 
of very captious notes on Don Quixote, written in the form of 
letters, between 1798 and 1799, and entitled “ Observaciones sobre 
Algunos Puntos de la Obra de Don Quixote, por T. E.” Clemen= 
cin gives the name of the author* (Ed. Don Quixote, Tom. L. 
p- 305.) 3. The extraordinary edition published in two volumes, 
quarto, at Salisbury, in England, in 1781, and aceompanied bya 
third volume, consisting of notes and verbal indexes, all in Spanish, 
by the Rev. John Bowle, a clergyman in a small village near 
Salisbury, who gave fourteen years of nnwearied labor to prepare 
it for the press; studying, as the basis of his system of annotation, 
the old Spanish and Italian authors, and especially the old Spanish 
ballad-books and books of chivalry, and concluding his task, or at 
least dating his Prefaces and Dedication, on the 23d of April, the 
anniversary of Cervantes's death. There are few books of so much 
real learning, and at the same time of so little pretension, as the 
third volume of this edition. Tt is, in fact, the true and safe foun- 
dation on which has been built much of what has since been done 
with success for the explanation and ¡illustration of the Don Quixote, 
which thus owes more to Bowle than to any other of its editors, 
except Clemencin* 4. The edition of Juan Antonio Pellicer, 
(Madrid, 1797-98, 5 tom., 8vo,) an Áragonese gentleman, who 
employed above twenty years in preparing it. (Latassa, Bib. Nov., 
Tom. VÍ. p. 319.) The notes to this edition contain a good deal of 


2 The imprint of this curious volumo is Bowle about his Báition of Don Quixote,” 
“London, 1807 ;” but ¡ts author, who was London, 1780, Svo, pp. 338. Barettl seems 
Consul-General of Spain to the United States 
from 1802 to 1809, lived in Philudelphia, 
and printed there, ln a pamphlet, with the 
dnte of Philadelpbia, 1807, four letters in 
Spanish, two of which are on Grammar, 
and all nddressed to John Vaughan, Esq, which he had been tried in 1709, and of 
Secretary of the Amorican Philosophical which some account ls given ín Boswell'a 
Society ín that city 5 but the style of print-- Johnson, — both Burke and Johnson hav 
ing of both theso works ís so esactly simio 





Arr. E] TRANSLATIONS OF THE DON QUIXOTE. 


439 
mirable ¡llustrations of Granville,—a translation, however, which 
has been somewbat roughly handled by F. B, F, Biedermann, in a 
tract entitled “Don Quixote et la Táche de ses Traducteurs” 
(Paris, 1837, Svo). The oldest English one is by Shelton, 1612 
—20, the first half of which was made, as he says in the Dedication, 
in forty days, some years before, and which was followed by a very 
vulgar, unfaithful, and course one by John Philips, the nephew of 
Milton, 1687; one by Motteux, 1712; one by Jarvis, 1742, which 
Smollet used too freely in his own, 1755; one by Wilmot, 1774; 
and, finally, the anonymous one of 1818, which has adopted parts 
of all its predecessors, Most of them have been reprinted often; 
and, on the whole, the most agreeable and the best, though certainly 
somewhat too free, is that of Motteux, in the edition of Edinburgh, 
1822, (5 vols., 12m0,) with notes and ¡llustrative translations, full 
of spirit and grace, hy Mr. J, G. Lockhart. No foreign country has 
done so mueh for Cervantes and Don Quixote as England, both by 
original editions published there, and by translations. Jt may be 
noticed further, that, in 1654, Edmund Gayton, a gay fellow about 
town, of whom Wood gives no very dignified account, published in 
London a small folio volume, entitled * Pleasant Notes upon Don 
Quixote,” the best of its author's varions works, and one that was 
thought worth publishing again in the next century, for the sake, 
I suppose, of the amusing vein in which it is written, but not on 
account of anything it contains that will serve to explain difficult or 
obscure passages in the original. Some of it is in verse, and the 
whole is based on Shelton's translation. 

AIL countries, however, have sought the means of enjoying the 
Don Quixote, for there are translations in Latin, Italian, Dutch, 


and, besides other works of little value, 
uundertook, ín one volume more, to com- 
plete the Don Quixote of Filleau de San 
Martín. This, from internal evidence 
(p. 2), he did after 1700, carrying on the 
adventures of Don Quíxote to the time of 
the kolghts death. But the whole ía a 
miserable carícature and travestie of the 
greal work of Cervantes, aud is brought to 
a hurried conclusion, at last, apparently 
because the author did not know what 
else to do with his hero. It was first 
printed, T believe, lo 1715; and its author 
awas alive ín 1720. The traosiation, la my. 
copy, —which was given to me by my 
friend Charles Sprague, Esq. — makes 
four small volumes, and the ndditions two 
more, printed by the Wetsteins, between 
1715 and 1719. 

Tho first French translation of the Pirst 
Part of Don Quixote was made by Cesar 


Oudin, and was published at Paris in 1620, 
1 is dedicated to the king, and Oudin saya 
he had travelled over a large part of the 
country of Don Quixote, Ín his company, 
and now comes back and offers him, ina. 
Freuch costume, to his Majesty. Oudins 
morginal notes show that he was a teacher 
of Spanish, aud that his labors were in- 
tended to benefit his pupila, The Secoud 
Part of the Don Quixote was translated by 
F. Rossct, and was printed in 1033, with- 
out any such marginal notes. 

A continuation.of Don Quixote, in 6 vols,y 
12mo, was published at Paris, in 1722, 
which Barbier (No. 17,510) says was long. 
falsely nttributed lo Le Sage, but whose 
real author he leaves unscttled,  Tt makes 
Cid Hamet Beuengeli one of the Moriscoes 
expelled by Philip TIL ; but so fur as the 
fir two volumes are concerned, which are 
all I have seen, 44 ía poor. 


¡Arr. E] IMITATIONS OF THE DON QUIXOTE. 441 
for instance, in a play by Francisco de Avila, published at Barce- 
lona, in 1617; in two by Guillen de Castro, 1621; in one by Cal- 
deron, that is lost; and in others by Gomez Labrador, Francisco 
Marti, Valladares, Melendez Valdes, and, more lately, Ventura de 
la Vega; some of which were noticed when we spoke of the drama. 
But all of them were failures. (Don Quixote, ed. Clemencin, 
Tom. IV., 1835, p. 399, note.)* 

As to prose imitations in Spain, except the attempt of Avella- 
neda, in 1614, 1 know of none for above a century ;— none, indeed, 
till the popularity of the original work was revived. But since that 
period there have been several. One is by Christóval Anzarena, — 
* Empressas Literarias del ingeniosíssimo Cavallero, Don Quixote 
de la Manchuela,” (Sevilla, 12mo, without the year, but printed 
aboit 1767,) — intended to ridicule the literary taste of the times, 
which, after going through the education of the hero, breaks off 
with the promise of a second part, that never appeared. Another 
is called. “ Adiciones á Don Quixote, por Jacinto María Delgado,” 
(Madrid, 12mo, s. a.,) printed apparently soon after the last, and 
containing the remainder of Saneho's life, passed chiefly with the 
Duke and Duchess in Aragon, where, at a very small expense of 
wit, he is fooled into the idea that he is a baron." Another, by 
Alonso Bernardo Ribero y Sarrea, called “El Quixote de la Can- 
tabria,” (Madrid, 1792, 2 tom., 12m0,) describes the travels of a 
certain Don Pelayo to Madrid, and his residence at court there, 
whence he returns to his native mountains, astonished and shocked 
that the Biscayans are not everywhere regarded as the only true 
nobility and gentlemen on earth. A fourih, “ Historia de Sancho 
Panza,” (Madrid, 1793—98, 2 tom. 12m0,) is an unsuccessful at- 
tempt to give effect to Sancho as a separate and independent 
person after Don Quixote's death, making him Alcalde of his native 
village, and sending him to figure in the capital and get into prison 


% There are seyeral old French plays on 
Don Quixoto, long since forgotten ; ex. gr., 
“Les Folies de Cardenio,” by Pichot, 1623 ; 
— “Dom Quichotte de la Manche,” by 
Guerín de Boucal, to parts, 1640 ;— 4 Le 
Gouvernement de Sanohe Pansa,” Comé- 
die, by the same, 1642 ;—“ Le Curieux 
Impertinent, ou le Jalonx,? 1645; —* Dom 
Quichotte de la Manche, Chevalier errant 
Espagnol revoltá, Tragicomédie,” par O. D., 
1703, ridiculing the Archduke in the War of. 
theSuccesslon; — and some others, But the 





chantements de Merlin,? Molidre played 
the part of Sancho in 1670, and the ass, 
who, as Grimarest says, had not thorough- 
Ay learned hís part, came on the stage too 
soon, in spite of his poetical rider, and 





4312 IMITATIONS OF THE DON QUIXOTE. — |Arr E. 


there; —the whole bringing the poor esquire's adventures down: 
to a very grave ending of his very merry life. A fifih, by Juan 


esquiro, travels over the earth to regenerate mankind ; and, coming. 
back just at the elose of the French Revolution, which. 
while he was in Asia, is cured, by the results of that great convul- 
sion, of his philosophical notions ; a dull, coarse book, whose style is 
as little attractive as its story. And a sisth, in two parts and eight 
small volumes, printed by Ibarra, at Madrid, in 1813, and called 
*“ Napoleon o el verdadero Don Quixote de la Europa; ” —a work. 
whose date and title render explanation of its subject needless. 
Perhaps there are other Spanish imitations of Don Quixote; but 
there can be none, I apprebend, of any merit or value, A liwile 
anonymous volume, entitled “Instrucciones economicas politicas 
dadas por el famoso Sancho Panza, Gobernador de la Insula Bara- 
taria a un hijo suyo,” of which the second edition appeared in 1791, 
hardly deserves notice. o a 
and seems to have had a political 

Al this account, however, ample as e may seem to be, of the 
different editions, translations, and imitations which, for above two 
centuries, have been poured out upon the different countries of 
Europe, gives, still, but an imperfect measure of the kind and: 
degree of suecess which this extraordinary work has enjoyed; for: 
there are thousands and thousands who never have read it, and 
who never heard of Cervantes, to whom, nevertheless, the names. 
of Don Quixote and of Sancho are as familiar as household words. 
So much of this kind of fame is enjoyed, probably, by no other 
author of modern times. 


APPENDIX, F. 


ON THE EARLY COLLECTIONS OF OLD SPANISH PLAYS, 
(Seo Vol. IL p. 436.) 


Two large collections of plays, and several small ones, much 
resembling each other, both in the character of their contents and 
the form of their publication, appeared in different parts of Spain 
during the seyenteenth century, just as the ballads had appeared a 
century before; and they should be noticed with some care, becanse 
they exbibit the peculiar physiognomy of the Spanish national 
drama with much distinctness, and furnish materials of consequence 
for its history. 

Of the first collection, whose prevailing title seems to have been 
* Comedias de Diferentes Autores,” though it is sometimes called 
* Comedias Varias,” or “La Coleccion Antigua,” it would, 1 suppose, 
be impossible now to form a complete set, or one even approaching 
to completeness. 1 possess five volumes of it, viz. XXV., XXVII, 
XXX, AXXL, and XLIIL, and have satisfactory notices of nine 
others. The first of the whole fourteen is Vol. UL, of which there 
are two editions at Madrid, 1613 and 1614, and one at Barcelona, 
1614;—and the second is Vol. V,, of which there are editions at 
Alcalá, 1615, Madrid, 1615, and Barcelona, 1619;— but both these 
volumes are sometimes reckoned as parts of the collected Comedias 
of Lope de Vega, although the first contains only three plays by 
him out of twelve, and the second only one out of twelye. After 
this fifth wolume, we make a long spring to Volume XXV., 
which has led some persons to suppose that most or all of the 
twenty intervening volumes were volumes of Lope's “ Comedias,” 
although it should be noted, in reply to this conjecture, that no 
more than twenty-tw00 volumes of Lope's plays had appeared when 
this twenty-if1h of the Diferentes was published, in 1632. The 
next volume after this is Vol. XXVIIL, printed at Huesca, in | 





a 


0 


ron a alcala, sel 
A Ne ot 
¿ to. 


remaining seven. 
The first of these slam vs pd Ls, 
but in the latter part of the period embraced between these 


came ont every year, none was issued during the twen r 
that followed the death of Calderon in 1681, except the. 
in the collection, the forty-eighth. Taken together, 

five hundred and seventy-four comedias, in all the forms an 








Arr. F.] COLLECTIONS OF OLD SPANISH PLAYS. 445 


the characteristics of the old Spanish drama; their appropriate loas 
and entremeses being connected with a very small number of them. 
Thirty-seven of these comedias are given as anonymous, and the 
remaining five hundred and thirty-seven are distributed among one 
hundred and thirty-cight different authors. 

The distribution, however, as might be anticipated, i is very un= 
equal. Calderon, who was far the most successful writer of the 
period he illustrated, has fify-three plays assigned to him, — many 
wrongfully, —in whole or in part, of which it is certain that hardly 
one was printed with his permission, and not above two, so far as 
I have compared them with the authentic editions of his works, from. 
a text properly corrected. Moreto, the dramatic writer next in 
popularity after Calderon, has forty-six pieces given to him in the 
same way; all probably without his assent, and certainly not all his. 
Matos Fragoso, who was a little later, has thirty-three; Fernando 
de Zarate, twenty-two; Antonio Martinez, eighteen; Mira de 
Mescua, eighteen; Zavaleta, sixteen; Roxas, sixteen; Luis Velez 
de Guevara, fifteen; Cancer, fourteen; Solís, twelve; Lope de 
Vega, twelve; Diamante, twelve; Pedro de Rosete, eleven; Bel- 
monte, eleven; and Francisco de Villegas, eleven. Many others 
have smaller numbers assigned to them; and sixty-nine authors, 
nearly all of whose names are otherwise unknown, and some of 
them, probably, pseudonymes, have but one each. 

That the dramas in this collection all belong to the authors to 
whom it ascribes them, or that it is even so far aceurate in its 
designations as to be taken for a sullicient general authority, is not 
for a moment to be supposed. Thirteen at least of the plays it 
contains, that bear the name of Calderon, are not his; one known 
to he his, “La Banda y la Flor,” is printed as anonymons in the 
thirtieth volume, with the title of * Hazer del Amor Agravio;” and 
another, “ Amigo Amante y Leal,” is twice inserted, — once in the 
fourth volume, 1653, and once in the eighteenth volume, 1662, — 
each differing considerably from the other, and neither taken from a 
genuine text. In the same way other plays are ascribed to authors 
who have no claim to them, as, for instance, in the fifteenth volume, 
“ La Batalla del Honor” is given to Zarate, though ¡t belongs to 


a carelessness in relation to other authors similar remarks 
might be made. Several of the plays of Solís are printed twice, 
and one three times; two of Zarate's, inserted in the twenty- 
and twenty-third volumes, are -repeated in the forty-first; and*in 
two successive volumes, the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth, we have 
the “Lorenzo me llamo ” of Matos Fragoso, a well-known, and, in 
its time, a Lacie /. -On all accounts, therefore, this collection, 

















APPENDIX, G.. 


ON THE ORIGIN OF THE BAD TASTE IN SPAIN, CALLED 
CULTISMO. 


(See Vol. UL p. 29, note.) 


A REMARKABLE discussion took place in Italy in the latter part 
of the cighteenth century, concerning the origin of the bad taste in 
literature that'existed in Spain after 1600, under the name of 
4 Cultismo;” —some of the distinguished men of letters in each 
country casting the reproach of the whole of it upon the other. 
The circumstances, which may be properly regarded as a part 
of Spanish literary history, were the following. 

In 1773, Saverio Bettinelli, a superficial, but somewhat popular. 
writer, in his “Risorgimento d” Italia negli Studi, ete., dopo il 
Mille,” charged Spain, and particularly the Spanish theatre, with 
the bad taste that prevailed in Italy after that country fell so much 
under Spanish control; adding to a slight notice of Lope de Vega 
and Calderon the following words: “This, then, is the taste 
which passed into Italy, and ler everything pure.” (Parte 
IL cap. 3, Tragedia e Commedia.) Girolamo Tiraboschi, in his 
“ Storia della Letteratura Italiana,” first published between 1772 
and 1783, maintained a similar position or theory, tracing this bad 
taste, as it were, to the very soil and climate of Spain, and follow= 
ing its footsteps, both in ancient times, when, he believed, the Latin 
literature had been corrupted by it after the Senecas and Martial 
came from Spain to Rome, and in modern times, when he charged 
upon it the follies of Marini and all his school. (Tom. IL, Disser= 
tazione Preliminare, $ 27.) 

Both these writers were, no doubt, sufficiently decided in the 
tone of their opinions. Neither of them, however, was harsh or 
violent in his manner, and neither, probably, felt that he was 
making such an attack on the literatare and fair fame of another 


—. 


AEEERS 
El 


A 





11t should be noted, however, that p, 145, and Vol. IIL pp. E 
“Arteaga took the: Ktallan side of tho ques- peda EA MAD 
tion. (See his “Rivoluzioni,? Vol, L, 5 














Are. G.] ON THE ORIGIN OF THE CULTISMO. 449 


pillas, or Llampillas, who was born in Catalonia, in 1731, and was, 
for some time, Professor of Belles Lettres in Barcelona, but who, 
from the period of his exile as a Jesuit in 1767 to that of his death 
in 1810, lived chiefly in Genoa or its neighborhood, devoting him- 
self to literary pursuits, and publishing occasionally works, both in 
prose and verse, in the Italian language, which he wrote with a 
good degree of purity. 

Among these works was his “Saggio Storico-apologetico della 
Letteratura Spagnuola,” printed between 1778 and 1781, in six 
volumes, octavo, devoted to a formal defence of Spanish literature 
against Bettinelli and Tiraboschi; — occasionally, however, noticing 
the mistakes of others, who, like Signorelli, had touched on the same 
subject. In the separate dissertations of which this somewhat re- 
markable book is composed, the author discusses the connection 
between the Latin poets of Spain and those of Rome in the period 
following the death of Augustus;—he examines the question of 
the Spanish climate raised by Tiraboschi, and claims for Spain a 
culture earlier than that of Italy, and one as ample and as honor- 
able;—he asserts that Spain was not indebted to Italy forgthe. 
revival of letters within her borders at the end of the Dark 
or for the knowledge of the art of navigation that opened to her 
the New World; while, on the other hand, he avers that Italy owed 
to Spain mueh of the reform of its theological and juridical studies, 
especially in the sixteenth century;—and brings his work to a 
conclusion, in the seventh and eighth dissertations, with an historical 
exhibition of the high claims of Spanish poetry generally, and with 
a defence of the Spanish theatre from the days of the Romans down. 
to his own times. 

No doubt, some of these pretensions are quite unfounded, and 
others are stated much more strongly than they should be; and no 
doubt, too, the general temper of the work is anything rather than 
forbearing and philosophical; but still, many of its defensive points 
are well maintained, and many of its incidental notices of Spanish 
literary history are interesting, if not important. At any rate, it 
produced a good effect on opinion in Ttaly; and, when added to the 
works published there soon afterwards by Arteaga, Clavigero, Exi- 
meno, Andres, and other exiled Spaniards, it tended to remove 
many of the prejudices that existed among the ltalians against 
Spanish literature ;— prejudices which had come down from the 
days when the Spaniards had ocenpied so much of Italy as conquer- 
ors, and had thus earned for their nation the lasting ill-will of its 

eople. 
K Answers, of course, were not wanting to the work of Lampillas, 
even before it was completed; one of which, by Bettinelli, appeared 
in the nineteenth volume of the * Diario ” of Modena, and another, 
co 











Ar, 1] INEDITA. 453 


of Cervantes and Lope, and of which a sufficient specimen and 
account will be found in this volume, ante, p. 231, note, 

To this sueceeds (in the same Vol. IV. of the translation, pp. 
327-330) a short extract from an anonymous poem in praise of 
Mohammed, found at Borja in Aragon in 1842, being part of a 
collection of “ Castellano-Arabigo” poetry by different authors, 
made apparently for the amusement of some cultivated Morisco, 
The poem in question is in the measure and manner of the Poema 
de José, and though its learned editor places it less than half a 
century before the poem of Rabadan, which bears date of 1603, ¡ts 
language, versification, and tone are those of poetry at least two 
centuries earlier;—a fact not easy to explain, if the date assigned 
to the anonymous poem is right. 1 give a few stanzas of it: — 

Las loores son ad Alláh, el alto, verdadero, 
Honrado y complido, Señor muy derechero, 

Señor de todo el mundo, uno solo y señero, 
Franco, poderoso, ordenador sertero ; 

Al qual pido y demando su ayuda y favor 
Y perdon de mis pecados, de mi gran falta y error, 
Y á mi padre, y á mi madre y á todos mis hermanos 
El nos quiera perdonar nuesas yerras y pecados. 

Y tornando á declarar loque tengg en intincion, 
De alabar y ensalzar á quien es tanta razon, 

Pues que por su nacimiento fué nuesa redencion, 
Y fuimos todos librados y quitos de perdicion, 

No me siento yo complido para esto declarar ; 
Porque soy muy torpe y rudo para haber de hablar, 
En tan alta criatura, luna clara y de beldad, 

El de la gran hermosura, sol de alteza y claridad. 

Both these extracts are printed by Señor de Gayangos with the 
“ Poema de José” in the translation of this History, because, like 
that poem, they are both written in the Spanish language, though 
with the Arabic character. But neither of them approaches that 
remarkable poem in merit or in interest, 


No. Il. 


DANZA GENERAL DE LA MUERTE. 

The next of the Jnedita referred to is the Danza General de la 
Muerte, which 1 have noticed (Vol. 1. pp. 77—79), and which is in 
the Library of San Lorenzo del Escorial, MSS. Cas. IV, Let. b. 
No. 21. IT copy the first two stanzas: — 


DICE LA MUERTE. 


Yo só la Muerte cierta á todas Criaturas 
Que son é serán.en el mundo durante ; 





454 á INEDITA. [Arr. E. 


Demando y digo: Oh home! Por qué curas 
De vida tan breve, en punto pasante? 
Pues non hay tan fuerte nin récio gigante 


Que deste mi arco se puede amparar, 
Conviene que mueras, cuando lo tirar, 
Con esta mi frecha cruel, traspasante 


Que locura es esta tan magnifiesta ? 
Que piensas th, home, que el otro morrá 
E tu quedaras, por ser bien compuesta 
La ta complision, é que durára? 

Non eres cierto, si en punte verná 
Sobre ti á deshora alguna corrupcion, 
De landre 6 carboneo ó tal inficion, 
Porque el ta vil corpo se desatará. 


There are seventy-seven more stanzas, some better, some worse, 
than those given above. The whole were published at Paris, in 
1856, by Don Florencio Janer, withoub notes or commentary. 


/ 


No. HL. 


EL RABBI SANTOB. 


The last of my Jneditais El Libro del Rabbi Santod, which 1 took 
in 1849 from the manuscript in the National Library of Madrid, 
marked B. b. 82. folio, but which 1 am much gratified to find is likely" 
to be published, —not unmindful of my earnest solicitations to that 
effect, —from the manuscript in the Escorial, by Don José Coll y 
Vehí, in a volume of Ribadeneyra's “ Autores Españoles.” As 
printed by Gayangos, from the Madrid MS,, (Tom. IV. pp. 331 = 
873,) it consists of six hundred and twenty-six stanzas, but there 
are a few more in that of the Escorial. 1 copy four of them, which 
come in after stanza 366 of the one at Madrid. 


Estos bien lazrados 
De cuerpo y corazon, 
Amargos y cuitados 
Viven en toda sazon, 


De noche y de dia, 
Cuitados, mal andantes, 
Fasiendo todavia 
Revés de sus talantes. 


El derecho amando 
Fase por fuerza tuerto, 
Y yerros cobdiciando, 
Obrar el seso cierto. — * 


Apr. H.] INEDITA. 455 


Hombre tanto folgado 
Nunca nascio jamás, 
Como el que nunca ha pensado 
De nunca valer mas. 


The work preparing for the Biblioteca of Ribadeneyra, and to 
be edited by Señor Coll y Vehí, is, I understand, a reprint of the 
“ Poesias Anteriores al Siglo XV.,” published by T. Sanchez, in four 
volumes, 1779 — 1790;— an important collection often used in the 
first volume of this History, as the notes there will show, and com- 
mended emphatically in pp. 298, 299 of this present volume ; — to 
which Señor Coll y Vehí proposes, I believe, to add inedited Spanish 
poetry of the same period. A continuation of the work of San- 
chez, like the one here suggested, has before been promised, and is 
greatly needed; for no country in Europe can now furnish such 
large manuscript contributions from its old libraries, public and 
private, ecclesiastic and aristocratic, to the first two or three cen- 
turies of its literature, as Spain can. We know that Sanchez had 
collected materials for such a continuation ; but since his death this 
rich mine has hardly been wrought at all. 


































































































































































































, 256 1. .. 
Waxanorá, Jos. an Don Jaume Ohroni- 
5 1; on printing in Valencia, 
WinLasaxbrxo, Are. ALvamez Dr, £ 1423. 
"ero Niño, E: 170 1.5 other 
A 
TLLAVICIOSA, J08. DE, L. 3 
LATINOS, E ¡uea, 


Vaaaicioss, Sen. De, dramas, IL. 427, 

a 

Vinzavzan, Genio. pe, dramas, IL. 897 and 
1.5 patronage ol, 456 n. 

ViLLecas, ALosso Dx, [. 1554. La Selvagia, 


1 241, 242 1.5 on the Celestina, 235 x, 
ViLLecas, Ayr. De, £ 1661. Im L 





lunón. DE, tes. Juvenal, L. 370 n. 
Viciosas, Juas De, dramas, IL 4461. 
vi Pano Feñs. 08, £ 1516. rs. 


PE ESRiqUE ne, d. 1434. Works 
and life, L. 323 -329 uu notes; conneo- 


Vinuesa, Marquis px, d. 1761, LIL. 246 m. 
Visores, Nacio, £- 1500, tes, Foresto'a 
1. 198 1.5 poetry, 


'VIOLASTE DEL CreLo, d. 1693, ILL. 
Virgen del Sagrario of Calderon, IL. 376 n. 
Vicgon, Macs de Dios of Escobar, II.-417, 


> 
a as 


1,5 by Luis de Leon, 80; 





aa. 

Virgin, . See Madonna. 
Vet dr 

Mt 3 

d, Pobreza y Miger ol Lope, TIL. 17. 
a vence al of 
Virtue by TIL. 263. 
Vinurs, :aL pe, 101681. Lito 


ma - 
De, forgeries, IL. 15, 


TL. . 
Vitoria del Amor of Morchon, TL. 444 n. 
Viuda de Padilla of Martinez de la Kosa, 
vado, O. OE Y L 261 
),0,, 0 
Vivas, Ex. Dona, f. reed 477, 478 m, 
pe, hn the Caucioneros, 1. 306. 


y 

Vivi TU. 481 m+ 

Vivo LE) Y el Diao ol Santos HL 161 
». 








Vowels omitted, TIL. 144 and n. 
Vuelta de ag iho al Lope, 11 290. 





fiasso's ancestar, y 


Wirres, 
1. 447 n.; tes. of Garcilaso, 406 1, 





360 
VSyr 
sé S 


12 DN 





AO 


3 £105 013 500 13) 














CECIL H. GREEN LIBRARY 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 
STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305-6004 
(650) 723-1493 
grncircOsulmail.stanford.edu 


All books are subject to recall. 














