-'-.y-    V-'\ 


l> 


.1  ;//\v 


m 

V 

1  !  \\    ' 

((■(Hi 


I 


3SV31d  USOl  dl 


*  c 

-  V 

!!  C 

«  ^ 


I 


•QilVD 

W3^  iON  0(l 
V31d 


C 

c 

:     r 

:    c 

^       T 

!     * 

^     </ 
s     o 

-< 

»       -r 

1  ^ 
S         O 

2  fTI 


SL 


ruSrorfSfs^O-Jv'oV    PROSE    .CT,ON 


111 


3    T1S3    00151E36    5 


Due 


BOHN'S  STANDABD  LIBBAEY. 


*'      HISTORY    OF    PROSE    FICTIOX. 


HISTORY  OF  PROSE  FICTION. 


BY 


JOHN   COLIN   DUNLOP. 


A  NEW  EDITION 
REVISED    WITH   NOTES,  APPENDICES,  AND  INDEX. 

BY 

HENRY    AYILSON. 


VOL.  I. 


LONDON:  GEORGE  BELL  AND  SONS,  YORK  STREET, 
COVENT   GARDEN. 

1888. 


CHISWICK   PRESS  : — C.    WHITTINGHAM   AND    CO-,    TOOKS    COURT, 
CHANCERY    LANE. 


0\ 


PREFACE 

TO   THE   PKESENT   EDITION. 

THE  value  of  Dunlop's  "History  of  Fiction,"  now  again, 
after  a  long  lapse  of  vears,  placed  within  reach  of  the 
English  reader,  needs  no  demonstration  ;  it  is  amply 
attested  by  the  numerous  quotations  from  and  references 
to  it  in  all  works,  even  of  the  most  recent  date,  upon  the 
history  of  imaginative  literature.  The  explorations  in  the 
field  of  the  genesis  and  genealogy  of  fiction  have,  indeed, 
recently  attained  such  extensive  development  that  pro- 
bably no  single  writer  could  now  be  found  bold  enough  to 
review  such  a  vast  domain  as  forms  the  scope  of  Dunlop's 
luidertaking. 

Writing  at  a  period  when  comparatively  little  had  been 
done  in  the  ground  he  occupied,  Dunlop  was  sensible  of 
the  magnitude  of  his  task,  and  found  it  exj^edient  to  keej) 
it  within  practicable  compass  by  confining  his  attention  to 
works  in  prose — a  limitation,  however,  as  need  hardly  be 
said,  altogether  artificial  in  tracing  the  evolutions  of  fictive 
composition,  which  passes,  according  to  certain  social  con- 
ditions and  by  laws  which  might  almost  be  determined, 
from  verse  to  prose,  and  again  from  the  latter  to  the 
metrical  form. 

In  the  domain  of  letters,  as  of  material  industries,  in- 
crease of  labour  begets  its  subdivision  and  speciaUzation. 
Investigations  into  the  history  of  fictive  literature  while 
they  have  recently  been  prosecuted  with  so  much  learning 


VI  PREFACE. 

and  activity  have  become  limited  to  the  works  of  a  single 
nation,  school  or  period,  or  even  to  a  particular  theme. 

The  endeavour  of  the  editor  has  accordingly  been  not  so 
much  to  incorporate  the  results  of  recent  research  in  the 
present  edition,  a  plan  which  would  have  swelled  it  beyond 
measure,  as  to  shew  the  direction  of  such  researches,  and 
indicate  where  they  may  be  followed  further  in  connection 
with  the  subjects  handled  by  Dunlop,  and,  as  it  were, 
sailing  in  his  wake  down  the  main  current  of  imaginative 
literature,  point  out,  as  far  as  may  be,  the  course  and  the 
recent  surveys,  by  which  the  numerous  affluents  to  the 
stream  of  fiction  may  be  traced  towards  their  sources. 

Dunlop' s  text  has  been  retained  almost  intact,  with  the 
exception  of  the  article  on  the  Grraal  romance,  which  the 
labours  of  M.  Paulin  Paris,  M.  Hucher,  Professor  Schulze 
and  many  other  savants,  rendered  it  necessary  to  re-write. 

The  valuable  notes  to  F.  Liebrecht's  G-erman  translation 
of  the  work  have  been  incorporated  with  the  notes  to 
the  present  edition,  and  are  usually  acknowledged  by  the 
syllable  :  Lieb. 

For  a  few  notes  the  editor  is  indebted  to  Mr.  Henry 
Jenner.     These  are  subscribed  h.  j. 

Dunlop  scarcely  even  mentions  the  literature  of  several 
northern  countries.  This  omission,  it  is  hoped,  is  here  to 
some  extent  remedied  by  appendices  on  prose  fiction  in 
Germany,  Scandinavia  and  Russia,  which  additions,  how- 
ever, it  was  necessary  to  restrict  to  the  most  exiguous 
limits. 

For  the  rest,  Dunlop' s  judgments  and  criticism  are  for 
the  most  part  sound,  and  therefore  of  permanent  value, 
his  style  is  excellent,  and  the  original  text  as  full  of  in- 
terest as  ever,  while,  it  is  hoped,  that  the  copious  notes 
and  index  now  added,  will  prove  useful  to  the  student. 


PREFACE.  Vll 

The  author  of  the  "  History  of  Fiction "  was  born 
on  the  30th  December,  178r»,  and  was  the  son  of  John 
Dunlop,  merchant  of  Glasgow,  and  Lord  Provost  of  that 
city  in  1796,  Collector  of  Customs  at  Borrow-Stounness, 
and  afterwards  at  Port  Glasgow,  where  he  died  in  1820, 
author  of  some  popular  songs,  among  which  may  be 
named  "  Oh  dinna  ask  me  gin  I  lo'e  you,"  and  "  Here's 
to  the  year  that's  awa."  His  wife,  the  mother  of  John 
Colin  Dunlop,  was  a  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Miller,  of 
Glenlee,  who  was  appointed  Lord  Justice  Clerk  in  1766, 
and  Lord  President  of  the  Court  in  1 788  ;  and  a  sister  of 
Sir  William  Miller,  of  Glenlee,  Bart.,  who  was  appointed 
one  of  the  Judges  of  the  Court  of  Session  in  1795. 

Of  the  career  of  her  son,  the  writer  of  the  "  History  of 
Fiction,"  comparatively  little  would  seem  to  be  on  record. 

He  was  admitted  a  member  of  the  Faculty  of  Advocates 
on  the  7th  March,  1807,  the  subject  of  his  thesis  being  "  De 
jure  jurando,  sive  voluntario,  sive  necessario,  sive  judiciali." 
In  1816  he  was  appointed  Sheriff  of  Renfrewshire,  an  office 
he  continued  to  hold  until  his  death,  which  occurred  at 
12,  India  Street,  Edinburgh,  on  the  26th  of  January,  1842. 
He  was  said  to  have  been  a  man  of  simple  manners  and 
unostentatious  life,  a  lucid,  fluent,  and  graceful  speaker, 
and  a  sound  lawyer. 

For  most  of  the  above  biographical  particulars,  I  grate- 
fully acknowledge  my  indebtedness  to  Dr.  Clerk,  of  the 
Advocates'  Library,  Edinburgh. 

Besides  the  "  History  of  Fiction  "  its  author  also  wrote  : 

"  The  History  of  Roman  Literature,  from  its  earliest 
period  to  the  Augustan  age."  London,  1823-1828.  3  vols. 
8vo. 

"  Memoirs  of  Spain  during  the  reigns  of  Philip  TV.  and 
Charles  II.,"  1611-1700.     London,  1834.     2  vols.     8vo. 

The  "  History  of  Fiction  "  was  first  published  in  1814, 


VIU  PREFACE, 

the  full  title  running  "  The  History  of  Fiction ;  being  a 
critical  account  of  the  most  celebrated  prose  works  of 
Fiction,  from  the  earliest  G-reek  Eomances  to  the  Novels  of 
the  Present  Day."     Edinburgh,  1814.     3  vols.     8vo. 

A  second  edition  was  issued  in  1816,  and  I  have  seen 
references  to  a  Philadelphia  reprint  in  two  volumes,  1842, 
from  the  second  edition,  and  to  a  third  edition  in  one 
volume,  1845. 

H.  W. 


SOME  WORKS  RELATING  TO  THE   SUBJECT  OF 

THE  PRESENT   VOLUIVIES,  OR  QUOTED 

THEREIN,   WITH   ABBREVIATED 

REFERENCES. 

Giraldi,  G.  B.    J)iscorsi  intorno  al  comporre  de  i  Komanzi,  etc.  Vinegia, 

1554,  4t<). 
Cliapelain,  Jean.     De  la  lecture  des  vieux  romans  .   .   .  publie  pour  la 

premiere  fois,  avec  des  notes,  par  A.  Peiliet.     Paris,  1870,  8vo. 
De  rOrigine  des  Fables,  in  (Euvres  de  Monsieur  de  Fontenelle.     Paris, 

1758,  torn.  iii.  pp.  270-296. 
Huet.  P.  D  ,  Bisho]>  of  Avranches.    Lettre  de  M.  Huet  a  M.  de  Segrais. 

De    Torigine   des    romans.      Xumeruus   editions  and  translations. 

Knglish  in  vol.  i.  of  A  Select  Collection  of  Novels.     Ed.  by  C.  A. 

Croxall.     6  vols.  1722,  etc. 
Moore,  J.,    M.D.      A   view   of  the   commencement   and   progress   of 

Romance.    Prefixed  to  the  Miscellaneous  Works  of  Tobias  Smollet. 

8  vols.    London,  1797,  8vo. 
Ogilvie,   J.,   D.D.      Philosophical   and    critical    observations    on    the 

nature,    character,  and  various  Species   of  Composition.     2   vols. 

London,  1774,  8vo. 
Hurd,    P.,   Bp.   of  A^'orcester.      Letters   on   Chivalry   and   Romance. 

1762,  Svo. 
Mason,  W.     Reflections  on  originality  in  authors  .  .  .  remarks  on  a 

Letter  by  Bp.  Hurd.     1762,  12mo. 
Stael,  Mme.  de.     An  Essay  on  Fictions  (pi-efixed  to  Zuhna,  a  tale). 

London,  1813. 
Reeve,  Clara.      Progress   of  Romance  through   times,  countries,   and 

manners,  with  remarks  on  the  good  and  bad  effects  of  it  on  them 

respectively.     2  vols.     Colchester,  1785,  8vo. 
Murray,  H.     The  Morality  of  Fiction ;  or,  an  Inquiry  into  the  Ten- 
dency of  Fictitious  Narrative,  with  Observations,  etc.     1805,  12mo. 
Wessenberg,  J.  H.  von.      Ueber  den  sittlichen  EinHuss  der  Romane. 

Constanz,  1826. 
Ueber  den  Werth  der  Empfindsamkeit,  besonders  in  Riicksicht  auf  die 

Romane;  Ifalle,  1780. 
Senior,  N.  W.     Essays  on  Fiction.     London,  1864,  4to. 
Boileau.     Les  Heros  de   Roman,  dialogue  a  la  manicre  de  Lucien,  pp. 

316-343  of  Oiavres.     1  vol.  ed.  Didot,  1862. 
Wheeler,  W.  A.     An  explanatory  and  pronouncing  dictionary  of  the 

noted  names  of  Fiction.     Boston,  U.S.,  1879,  8vo. 


X  LIST    OP    WORKS. 

Brewer,     Dictionary  of  Phrase  and  Fable.     12th  edition. 

Header's  Handbook.     3rd  edition,  1882. 

Liebreeht,   F.      J.   Dunlop's    Geschichte    der    Prosadichtungen    oder 

Geschichte  der  Romane,  Novellen,  Marchen  .  .  .  ausdem  Englis- 

chen  iibertragen  .  .  .  A-ermehrt  .  .  .  mit  Anmerkungen  .  .  .  ver- 

sehen.     Berlin,  1851,  8vo. 
Wolff,    O.    L.    B.      Allgeraeine   Geschichte   des    Romans,  A'on    dessen 

Ursprung  bis  zur  neuesten  Zeit.     Jena,  1841. 
Ebert,  A.     Allgemeine  Geschichte  der  Literatur  des  Mittelalters   im 

Abendlande.     l>eip.,  1874,  etc.,  8vo. 
Goedeke,  Carl.     Das  ]\Iittelalter,  Darstellung  des  Deutschen  Literatur 

des  Mittelalter.     Dresden,  1852-71,  8vo. 
Sismondi.     Historical  view  of  the  Literature  of  the  South  of  Europe, 

translated    from   the  French  with  notes  by  T.  Roscoe.     London, 

1823. 
Graesse,   J.    G.   D.      Lehrbuch   einer    allgemeiner   Literargeschichte. 

Dresden,  1837-59. 
Ward,  H.  L.  D.     Catalogue  of  Romances  in  the  Dept.  of  MSS.  in  the 

British  Museum.     Vol.  L     1883. 
Gordon   de    Pei'cel   [i.e.,   N.    Lenglet  Du  Fresnoy].      De  Pusage  des 

Romans  .  .  .  Avec  une  bibliotheque  des  Romans  Accompagnee  de 

remarques  critiques  sur  leur  choix  &  leurs  editions.     2  tom.    Chez 

la  veuve  de  Puiiras,  a  la  verite  sans  fard.     Amsterdam,  1734. 
Bibliotheque  des  romans,  etc.  [ed.  by  the  Marquis  de  Paulmy].     1775, 

etc.  12mo. 
Melanges    tires   d'une    grande    Bibliotheque.      Ed.   by  the    Marquis 

d'Argenson  and  others.      Table   alphabetique.     68    tom.     Paris, 

1785-88,  8vo. 
Voyages    imaginaires,   songes,   visions    et    romans   cabalistiques,   etc. 

36  vols.     Paris,  1787-89, 
Roscoe,  T.     Novelist's  Library.     London,  1831. 
Hazlitt,  W.     The  Romancist.     1841,  etc.  8 vo. 
Wiener,  Jahrb.     Jahrbiicher  der  Literatur.     Wien,  1818-49. 
Romania.     Paris,  8vo. 
Jahrbuch    fur   Romanische   und  Englische   Literatiir.      Berlin,   1859, 

etc.     8vo. 
Orient  und  Occident.     Gottingen,  1860,  etc. 

Miiller,  K.  O.     A  History  of  the  Literature  of  Ancient  Greece.     Con- 
tinued by  J.  W.  Donaldson.     3  vols.     London,  1858. 
Schoell.     Histoire  de  la  litterature   grecque.     2   ed.      Paris,    1823-5, 

8vo.     8  vols. 

Geschichte   der   griechischen   Literatur.      Ans   dem  Franz,  mit 

Berichtigungen,  etc.     Berlin,  1828-30.     3  Bd. 

Kicolai,R.    Griechisehe  Literaturgeschichte.    3  Bd.    Magdeburg,  1873- 

78,  8vo. 
Rohde,  E.     Der  griechisehe   Roman   und   seine  Vorlaufer.     Leipzig, 

1876,  8vo. 
Gidel,  A.  C.     Etudes  sur  la  litterature  grecque  moderne.     Imitations 

en  grec  de  nos  romans  de  chevalerie  depuis  XIl^  Siecle.     Paris, 

1866. 

Nouvelles  etudes  sur  la  litterature  grecque  moderne.     1876. 


LIST    OF    WORKS.  XI 

Collection   do  remans  p-ecs.      TrLredee  d'un  I'ssai  siir  k-s  romans  grecs, 

par  M.  (A.  F.)  ViUenuiin.      1S2-2,  etc. 
Zevort,  (\  ^I.      Romans  <i:recs,  traduits  en  fran^ais,  ])ar  M.  C.  Z.,  pre- 
cedes d'une  intrnduttion  sur  le  ronian  chez  les  Cireis.     Taris,  1856, 

l'2mo. 
Les  Konians  grecs.     Precedes  d'une  Etude  sur  le  Jxonian  grec,  par  A. 

Chassang.      1880. 
Kohde,  E.     Ueber  Lucians  Schrift  Aovkioc  i)  'Orog  und  ihr  Verliaeltniss 

zu    Lucius   von   Eatx-ae    und   den    !^letamorphosen   des   Apuleius. 

Leip.,  1869. 
Wachsniuth,    C.      ])as   alte    Griechenland   ini    neuen  .  .  .  Alit   einem 

Anliang  liber  Sitten  und  Aberglauben  der  Neugriecheri,etc.    Bonn^ 

1864.  8vo. 
Xicolai,  1\.     Geschichte  der  Neugricchischen  Literatur.     Leip.,  1876, 

Svo. 
Legrand,  E.    Collection  de  Monuments  pour  servir  a  I'Ltudc  de  la  langue 

]S'eo-HeIleni(iue.     Paris,  1869.  etc..  8vo. 

Bibliotht,H|ue  grectjue  Vulgaire.     Paris,  1881,  etc.,  8vo. 

Talbot,  E.     Histoire  de  la  litterature  romaine.     Paris,  1883,  16mo. 
TeutVel,  W.  8.     A  History  of  Koman  Literature.     Trans  ...  by  W. 

Wagner.     London,  187.i. 
Siracox,  G.  A.    A  History  of  Latin  Literature  from  Ennius  to  Boethius. 

2  vols.     London,  1883. 

Walker,  J.  C  On  the  origin  of  Komantic  Fabling  in  Ireland.  Trans- 
actions Ko3'al  Irish  Acad.     Vol.  X.      1805. 

Stephens,  T.  The  Literature  of  the  Kymry  :  being  a  critical  essay  on 
the  language  and  literature  of  Wales  during  the  XII.  and  two  suc- 
ceeding centuries.     London,  1876,  8vo. 

Glennie,  J.  S.  S.     Arthurian  Localities.     Edinb.,  1869,  8vo. 

Xash,  I).  W.  Taliesin  5  or,  the  Bards  and  Druids  of  Britain.  London, 
1858,  Svo. 

Guest,  C.      .Mabinogion.     London,  1877,  Svo. 

Hunt,  K.  Popular  Komances  of  the  West  of  England,  London,  1881, 
Svo. 

Croker,  T.  C.  Fairy  Legends  of  the  South  of  Ireland.  X'ew  ed.  by 
T.  Wright.     London,  1882,  8vo. 

Legendary  Tales  of  the  Ancient  Britons  rehearsed  from  the  early 
Chronicles  (of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth).  By  L.  ^Nlcnzies.  London, 
1864,  8vo. 

Luzel,  F.  M.  Bepred  Breizad,  Poesies  bretonnes  .  .  .  traduction  en 
regard.      Morlaix,  1865. 

Yeillees  bretonnes  Morlaix.     1879,  Svo. 

Hersart  de  la  Villemartjue  (T.  G.  H.),  Viscount.  Barzaz  Breiz.  Chants 
populaires  de  la  Bretagne  recueillis,  traduits  et  annotes  par  .  .  . 
H.  de  la  V.     Six.  ed.     Breton  and  Fr.     Paris,  1867,  Svo. 

Les  Komans  de  la  Table  Konde  et  les  Contes  des  anciens  Bretons. 

3  ed.     Paris,  i860,  12mo. 

Ferrario,  Giulio.     Storia  ed  analisi  degli  antichi  romanzi  di  cavalleria, 

etc.      Milano,  1H28-29,  Svo. 
Paris,  A.   Pauliu.     Les  Komans  de  la   table   ronde.     5    vols.     Paris, 

1878.     Svo. 


Xll  LIST    OF    WORKS. 

Paris,  Gaston.     Histoire  po^tique  de  Charlemagne.     Paris,  1865, 
Gautier,  Leon.     Les   Epopees   fran^aises.     Etude  sur  les  origines   et 

I'histoire  de  la  litterature  nationale,  etc.     Paris,  1878,  etc. 
Papanti,  G.     Catalogo  dei  novelieri  italiani  in  prosa  raccolte  et  posse- 

duti  da  G.  P.  Aggiuntevi — alcune  novelle  .  .   .  inediti.     Livorno, 

1871.    2  vols. 
Tables   genealogiques   des   beros   des    romans    (chiefly    of    Chivalry). 

Paris  ?  1794  ?  4 to. 
Leveque,  E.     Les  Mythes  et  les  legendes  de  I'Inde  et  de  la  Perse  dans 

Aristo^Dhane,  Platen,  Aristote,   Virgile,  Ovide,  Tite  Live,  Dante, 

Boccace,  Arioste.  Rabelais,  Perrault,  La  Fontaine.     Paris,  1880. 
Keightley,  T.    Tales  and  popular  fictions  ;  their  resemblance  and  trans- 
mission from  country  to  country.     London,  1834.  l-2mo. 
Hahn,  J.  G.  v.     Mythologische  Parallelen.     Jena,  1859,  8vo. 
Grimm.     Teutonic  Mythology,  trans,  by  J.  S.  Stallybrass.     London, 

1880. 
J)u  Meril,  E.     Histoire  de  la  poesie  Scandinave.     Paris,  1839,  8vo. 
Les  Litteratures  populaires  de  toutes  les  nations,  traditions,  legendes, 

contes,  chansons.     Many  vols.     Paris,  1881,  etc.,  8 vo. 
Husson,  H.     La  chaine  traditi(mnelle.     Paris,  1874,  8vo. 
Varnhagen,   H.     Ein   Indisches  Mjirchen  und  Seine  Wanderung  aus 

dem  Orient.     Berlin,  1882,  8v(». 
Max   Mueller.      Chips   from   a   German   Workshop.      London,   1875, 

8vo. 
Cabinet  des  Fees ;  ou  collection  choisie  des  contes  des  Fees  et  autres 

contes  merveilleux.     41  torn.     Amsterdam.  Paris,  1785-89.     Svo. 
Walkenaer.     Dissertation  sur  les  contes  de  fees,  in  Perrault's  Contes, 

1836. 
Lettres  sur  les  contes  des  Fees.     Paris,  1862. 
Deulin.     Contes  de  ma  Mere  TOye  avant  Perrault.     Paris,  1879. 
Schmidt,  F.  W.  v.     Die  Marchen  Straparola  aus  dem  Ital.     1817,  8vo. 
Beitrage  zur  Geschichte  der  Romantischen  Poesie.     Berlin,  1818, 

Svo. 
Gesta  Romanorum,  ed.  with  introduction  in  German  by  H.  Oesterley. 

Berlin,  1872,  8vo. 
Wi-ight,  T.     A  Selection  of  Latin  Stories  from  MSS.  of  the  13th  and 

14th  centuries.     Ed.  by  T.  VV.     Vol.  8  of  Percy  Society  Publica- 

cations.     1842. 
Csesarius  Heisterbacensis  .   .    .   Dialogus  miraculorum.     Textu-n  .   .  . 

recognovit  J.  Strange.    2  vols.    Culoniae,  etc.,  1851,  8vo.     Divided 

into   12  "  distinctiones." — Index  in  Ceesarii  H.  .  .  .  Dialogum. — 

ConfluentiaB.      1857,  8vo. 
Maur}',  L.  F.  A.     Essai  sur  les  legendes  pieuses  du  moyen  age.     Paris, 

1843,  8vo. 
Dullinger,  J.  J.  I.  von,- Dr.     Die  Pabstfabeln  des  Mittelalters.     Dr.  J. 

J.  I.  von  D.'s,  Fables  respecting  the  Popes  in  the  Middle  Ages, 

translated  by  A.  Plummer,  etc.     New  York,  1872,  Svo. 
■Cox,  Sir  G.  W.     Popular  Romances  of  the    Middle   Ages.     London, 

1880,  Svo. 
Nisard,  M.  E.  C.     Histoire  des  livres  populaires.     2  torn.     Paris,  1864, 

12  mo. 


LIST    OF    WORKS.  xill 

Kulbing.  E.   Beitniice  zur  Vergleichenden  Geschichte  der  romaiitisclu-n 

Poesie  iind  Trosa  des  Mittelalters,  etc.     Breslau,  1876, 
Simrock.  C.  Die  Deutscher  ^'olksbi■u•hel^  etc-.     1845,  etc. 
Hagen,  F.    H.    von    der.     Gesainnitabentouer.     Ilundert    Altdeiitsche 

Erziihlunijen.    Hitter-  iind  Pfatten-  Miiren,  Stadt-  undJ)orft;eschiih- 

ten,  Schwanke,  Wuiider  Sai^en  und  Legeiuien,  etc.  3  Bd.   Stuttgart, 

1850,  8v(.. 
r.  Alfonsi.  disciplina  Clericalis.     Zum  ersten  mal  herausgogeben,  mit 

Einleitung  und  Anmerkungen   von  F.   W.    V.  Schmidt.     Berlin, 

1827,  Svo. 
Scheible,  ,J.     Das  Kloster.  Weltlich  und  geistlich.     Meist  aus  der  altern 

deutschen   Volks-,    Wunder-.   Curiositaten-,    und    Vorzugs   weise 

Komisclien  Literatur.  .  .  .  Stuttgart,  1845,  etc.,  IGmo. 
Horst,  G.  C.     Zauberbiblioihek.     Mainz,  1821-26,  Svo. 
Tharsander,    pseu(l.    [i.e.  F.  G.  Wegener].     Schau-Flatz  vieler  unge- 

reimten  Meynungen  und  Erzehlungen  :   Woraut'  die  unter  dem  Titul 

der  Magiji?  Xaturalis  sohoch  gepriesene  Wisseiischaiten.  .  .  Vorges- 

tellet  gepriifet  und  entdecket  werden,   etc.     3  Bd.     Berlin,   1735- 

42,  Svo. 
Weber,  H.     Metrical  Romances.     3  vols.     Edinburgh,  1810,  Svo. 
Ellis,  George.     Specimens  of  Early  English  Metrical  Romances,  chiefly 

written  during  the  early  part  of  the  fourteenth  century.    To  which 

is  prefixed  an  historical  introduction.     3  vols.     Bohn,  Lond.,  1847, 

Svo. 
Estienne,  H.     Apologia  pour  Herodote,  Satire  de  la  Societe  au  XVI« 

Siecle,  etc.     Paris,  1879,  Svo. 
liCgrand  d'Aussy,  P.  J.  B.     Fabliaux,  ou  contes,  fables  et  romans  du 

XII«  et  du  XIII«  siecle,  traduitsouextraits,  par  Le  Grand  d'Aussy. 

3*  ed.     Paris,  1829,  Svo. 
Fabliaux,  or  tales,  abridged  from  French  MSS.  of  the  XII.  and 

XIII.  centuries.     3  vols.     London,  1815,  8vo. 
Meon.     Xouveau    Recueil    de  Fabliaux  et  Contes  ine'dits  des    Poetes 

Francais  des  XII«=,  XIII«,  XIV%  et  XV^  siecle.  2  torn.  Paris,  1823, 

Svo. 
Montaiglon,  A.  de.     Recueil  general  et  complet  des  fabliaux  des  XIII* 

et  XIV«  siecles.     Paris,  1S72,  Svo. 
Koerting,  H.     Geschichte  des  franzosisehen  Romans  in  XVII.  Jalir. 

Leip.,  18S5,  etc.,  Svo. 
Baret.  E.    De  TAmadis  de  Gaule,  et  de  son  influence  sur  les  mceurs  .  .  . 

litterature  au  XVI**  et  au  XVIP  siecles,  auec  una  notice  biblio- 

graphique.     Paris,  1873,  8vo. 
Cousin,    Victor.       La    Societe    fran^aise    au    XVII.     siecle.       Paris, 

1858. 
Madame  de  Longueville.     Etudes  sur  les  femmes  ,  .  .  du  XVII. 

siecle.     Paris.  1855. 
Menagiana.  ou  les  bons  motset  remarques  critiques  de  [Gilles]  Menage. 

Recueillis  par  ses  amis.     Xouvelle  edition.     4  torn.     Paris,  1729, 

12mo. 
Elton,  C.  J.     Origins  of  English  History.     London,  18S2,  Svo. 
Warton,  Thomas.     The  history  of  English  Poetry,  from  the  close  of  the 

eleventh  to  the  commencement  of  the  eighteenth  century.  Tu  which 


XIV  LIST    OF    WORKS. 

are  prefixed  two  dissertations  on  the  origin  of  romantic  fiction  in 

Europe,  etc.     London,  1840,  and  numerous  editions. 
Ellis,  George.     Specimens  of  Early  English  Romances  in  metre,  chiefly 

■written  during  the  early  part  of  the  XIV.  century.     To  which  is 

prefixed  an  historical  introduction  intended  to  illustrate  the  rise  and 

progi'ess  of  romantic  composition  in  France  and  England.  London, 

1805.     3  vols.,  8vo. 
Wright,  T.     Essays  on  Subjects  connected  with  the  literature,  popular 

superstitions,  and  history  of  England  during  the  middle  ages. 
The    Bagford  Ballads.     Edked  by   J.   W.  Ebbsworth  for  the  Ballad 

Society.     London,  1878,  8vo. 
Masson,  I).     British  Novelists  and  their  Styles,  being  a  ci'itical  sketch 

of  the  history  of  British  Prose  Fiction.     Cambridge,  1856. 
Tuekerman,  B.     History  of  English  Prose  Fiction.     New  York,  1882, 

Svo. 
Lanier,  S.     The  English  Novel  and  the  principle  of  its  development. 

New  York,  1883. 
Forsyth,  W.  On  the  Novels  and  Novelists  of  the  18th  century.  Loudon, 

1871,  Svo. 
Weber,  H.  W.    Tales  of  the  East.  Romances  of  Oriental  origin.    3  vols. 

Edinb.,  1812. 
Julien,  S.     Les  Avadanas,  contes  et  apologues  indiens  inconnus  jusqu'a 

ce  jour  suivis  de  poesies  et  de  nouvelles  chinoises  .  .  .  3  torn.  Trad. 

par  S.  J.     Paris,  18.59. 
Hitopadesa.     A  new  literal  translation  from  the  Sanscrit  text  of  John- 
son.    For  the  use  of  students.     By  F.  Pincott.     London,    1880, 

8vo. 
Dandin.     Hindoo  Tales.     London,  1873,  8vo. 
Bidpai,  or   Pilpay.     Kalilah  and   Dimnah ;  or,  the   Fables  of  Bidpai  ; 

being  an  account  of  their  literary  history,  with  an  English  transla- 
tion  of  the   late  S^^riac   version.     By  Keith   Falconer,     London, 

1885,  8v(). 
Mahabharata.     Indische  Sagen  (translated  from  the  Mahabharata),  von 

A.  H.  A.  Holtzmann.     1845. 
Loiseleur  deslongchamps,  A.  L.  A.     Essai  sur  les  Fables  Indiennes  et 

sur  leur  introduction  en  Europe.  .  .  .  Suivi  du  roman  de  Sept  Sages 

de  Rome,  etc.     Paris,  1838,  Svo. 
Jatakas.     The   Vedabbha  Jataka   translated  and   compared   with   the 

"  Pardoner's  Tale,"  by  H.  T,  Francis.     London,  1884,  8vo. 
Cardonne,  D.  ]).  Melanges  de  litterature  orientale,  traduits  de  differens 

Manuscrits  turcs,  arabes,  et  persans,  etc.     2  tom.     Paris,  1770, 

12mo. 
Hole,  R.     Remarks  on  the  Arabian  Nights  Entertainments  ;  in  which 

the  origin  of  Sinbad's  Voyages  and  other  Oriental  fictions  is  par- 
ticularly considei'ed.     Lond.,  1797,  Svo. 
Habicht,   M.     Tausend  und  Fine  Nacht.     12  Bde.     Breslau,   1825-43. 

Svo. 
Tausend  und  eine  Nacht,  Arabische  Erzahlungen.  Zum  erstenMale  aus 

dem   Urtcxt  vollstandig  u.   treu  uebersetzt,  von  G.  Weil.     3  Bd. 

Stuttgart,  1871,  Svo. 
The  Thousand  and  One  Days  :  Persian  Tales  translated  into  French 


LIST    OF    WORKS.  XV 

[or  rather  compiled  by  F.  Petis,  de  la  Croix,  assisted  by  Alain 
l\one  le  Sajje]  and  now  English.  1714,  I'inio. 
Ziyai,  Naklishabi.  Das  Papagaienburh.  Eine  Sanunluni,' orientalischer 
Er/Jililungen.  Nach  der  Tiirkischen  Bcarbeitung  [of  the  Persian 
«»t'  Zivai  NakhsliabiJ  /nni  ersten  Male  ubersetzt  von  G.  Kosen.  2 
Thl.  'Leipzig.  18J8,  8vo. 

Tales  of  a  Parrot;  done  into  Engli.sh  from  a  Persian  manuscript 

intitled,  Tooti  Nameh,  etc.     [By  B.  Gerrans.]    \'ol.  1  only  printed. 
London,  1792,  8vo. 

The 'Loot i  iS'ameh.     Persian  and  English.      1801,  8vo. 

Die  Papageimarchen  ....  erzahlt,  von  ]M.  Wickerhauser.     Leip.,  1838, 

8  vo. 
Firdausi.     Shah  Nameh.     Trans,  by  Dr.  James  Atkinson. 

Le    Livre    des    Rois,   par    Abou'lkasim.      Firdousi    traduit    et 

commente  par  J.  Mohl.     7  tom.     Paris,  1876-78,  8vo. 

Heroic  Tales.     London,  1886,  8vo, 

Julien,  S.     Nouvelles  chinoises.    Paris,  1860.  12mo. 

Les  deux  cousines.     Roman  Chinois.     2  vols.     Paris,  1864. 

Remusat,  J.  P.  A.     Contes  Chinois  traduits.     1827.     12mo. 

Contes  Chinois.     3  tom.     Paris,  1827,  l2mo. 

The  Pilgrimage  of  Fa  Hian.     From  the  French,  ....  with  notes. 

1848. 

Puini,  C.    Xovelle  Cinese,  tradotti  da  C.  Puini.     Piacenza,  1872,  8vo. 
Talmud.     Leggende  talnuidiche.     Pisa,  1869,  8vo. 

The  Talmud  of  Jerusalem.     London,  1886,  4to. 

La  Medecine  du  Thalmud.     Paris,  1880,  8vo. 

Treasures  of  the  Talmud,  in  alphabetical  order  from   A.   to  L. 

London,  1882,  8vo. 

'Sor\i,F.  pseud.    Vollstandiges.    Worterbuch  liber  .  .  .  den  Talmud,  etc. 

1842,  4to. 
Brecher,  G.     Das  Transcendentale,  Magic  und  magische  Heilarten  im 

Talmud.    1850,  8vo. 
Gould,  S.  B.     Legends  of  Old  Testament  Characters  from  the  Talmud. 

1871.     Svo. 
Wuelcker,  R.  P.     Das  Evangelium   Nicodcmi   in  der  abendliindischen 

Literatur.     Nebst   drei  Excursen  liber  Joseph  von  Arimathia  als 

Apostel  Englands,  etc.     Paderborn,  1872,  Svo. 
Weil,   G.      Biblische    Legenden    der   ]Muselmanner.     Aus    arabischen 

Quellen,  zusammengetragen  und  mit  jiidischen  Sagen  \'erglichen. 

Frankfurt  a.  >L,  1845.     8vo. 
Weil.     The  Bible,  the  Koran,  and  the  Talmud.     Londt  n,  1S46,  a  trans- 
lation of  Biblische  Legenden. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Introductit.n        .........  1 

CIIAPTKR    I. 

Origin  of  fictitious  narrative — Earliest  writers  of  Greek  romance 
— Heliodorus  — Achilles  Tat i us  — Longus  — Chariton  — Joannes 
Damascenus — Eustathius — Remarks  on  this  species  of  composi- 
tion          9 


CHAPTER  11. 

Introduction  of  the  Milesian  tales  into  Italy — Latin  Romances — 
Petromus  Arbiter — Apuleius,  etc 92 

CHAPTER   III. 

Origin  of  Romantic  fiction  in  Europe — Romances  of  chivalry  re- 
lating to  the  early  and  fabulous  history  of  Britain,  particularly 
to  Arthur  and  the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table — Merlin — Saint- 
Graal — Perceval — Lancelot  du  Lac — Meliadus — Tristan — Isaie 
le  Triste — Artus — Gyron — Percefoi'est — Artus  do  la  Bretagne 
— Cleriadus 114 

CHAPTER    IV. 

Romances  of  chivalry  relating  to  Charlemagne  and  his  peers — 
Clironicle  of  Turpin — Huon  de  Bordeaux — Guerin  de  Monglave 
— Gallien  Rhetore — Milles  et  Amys — Jourdain  de  Blaves — 
Ogier  le  Danois,  etc.         .         .         .         .         .  .         .274 

CHAPTER  V. 

Romances  of  the  Peninsula  concerning  Amadis  de  Gaul  and  his 
descendants — Romances  relating  to  the  imaginary  family  of  the 
Palmerins— Catalonian  romances — Tirante  the  White — Parte- 
noi)ex  de  Blois  .......  .351 

I.  b 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER   VI. 

PAGE 

Romances  of  chivalry  relating  to  classical  and  mythological  heroes 
— Livre  de  Jason — La  Vie  de  Hercule — Alexandre,  etc.  .         .414 

Supplementary  Notes .........     445 

Appendix  ...........     476 

List  of  some  Proper  Names  employed  in  the  earlier  Romances      .     499 
Chart  showing  diffusion  of  the  Kalila  ve  Dimna. 
Chart  of  Aryan  Exposure  and  Return  formula. 


IXTRODUCTIOX 


THE  art  of  fictitious  narrative  appears  to  have  its  origin 
in  the  same  principles  of  selection  bv  which  the  fine 
arts  in  general  are  created  and  perfected.  Among  the  vast 
variety  of  trees  and  shrubs  which  are  presented  to  liis 
view,  a  savage  finds,  in  his  wanderings,  some  which  j^ecu- 
liarlv  attract  his  notice  by  their  beauty  and  fragrance,  and 
these  he  at  length  selects,  and  plants  them  round  his 
dwelling.  In  like  manner,  among  the  mixed  events  of 
human  life,  he  experiences  some  which  are  peculiarly 
grateful,  and  of  which  the  narrative  at  once  pleases  him- 
self, and  excites  in  the  minds  of  his  hearers  a  kindred 
emotion.  Of  this  kind  are  unlooked-for  occurrences,  suc- 
cessful enterprise,  or  great  and  unexpected  deliverance 
from  signal  danger  and  distress.  As  he  collected  round 
his  habitation  those  objects  with  which  he  had  been 
pleased,  in  order  that  they  might  afford  him  a  frec]uent 
gratification,  so  he  rests  his  fancy  on  those  incidents  which 
had  formerly  awaked  the  most  powerful  emotions ;  and 
the  remembrance  of  which  most  strongly  excites  his  ten- 
derness, or  pride,  or  gratitucle. 

Thus,  in  process  of  time,  a  mass  of  curious  narrative  is 
collected,  which  is  communicated  from  one  individual  to 
another.  In  almost  every  occurrence  of  human  life,  how- 
ever, as  in  almost  every  scene  of  nature,  something  inter- 
venes of  a  mixed,  or  indifferent  description,  tending  to 
weaken  the  agreeable  emotion,  which,  without  it,  would 
be  more  pure  and  forcible.  For  example, — in  the  process 
of  forming  the  garden,  the  savage  finds  that  it  is  not 
enough  merely  to  collect  a  variety  of  agreeable  trees  or 
plants  ;  he  discovers  that  more  than  this  is  necessary,  and 

I.  B 


Z  INTRODUCTION. 

that  it  is  also  essential  that  he  should  gnib  up  from 
around  his  dwelling  the  shrubs  which  are  useless  or 
noxious,  and  which  weaken  or  impair  the  j^ure  delight 
which  he  derives  from  others.  He  is  careful,  accordingly, 
that  the  rose  should  no  longer  be  placed  beside  the  thistle^ 
as  in  the  wild,  but  that  it  should  flourish  in  a  clear,  and 
sheltered,  and  romantic  situation,  where  its  sweets  may  be 
undiminished,  and  where  its  form  can  be  contemplated 
without  any  attending  circumstances  of  uneasiness  or  dis- 
gust. The  collector  of  agreeable  facts  finds,  in  like 
manner,  that  the  sympathy  they  excite  can  be  heightened 
by  removing  from  their  detail  every  thing  that  is  not  in- 
teresting, or  that  tends  to  weaken  the  principal  emotion, 
which  it  is  his  intention  to  raise.  He  renders,  in  this  way, 
the  occurrences  more  unexpected,  the  enterprises  more 
successful,  the  deliverance  from  danger  and  distress  more 
wonderful.  "  As  the  active  world,"  says  Lord  Bacon,  "  is 
inferior  to  the  rational  soul,  so  Fiction  gives  to  mankind 
what  history  denies,  and,  in  some  measure,  satisfies  the 
mind  with  shadows  when  it  cannot  enjoy  the  substance : 
For,  upon  a  narrow  inspection.  Fiction  strongly  shows  that 
a  greater  variety  of  things,  a  more  perfect  order,  a  more 
beautiful  variety,  than  can  any  where  be  found  in  nature, 
is  pleasing  to  the  mind.  And  as  real  history  gives  us  not 
the  success  of  things  according  to  the  deserts  of  vice  and 
virtue.  Fiction  corrects  it,  and  jDresents  us  with  the  fates 
and  fortunes  of  persons  rewarded  or  j^unished  according  to 
merit.  And  as  real  history  disgusts  us  with  a  familiar 
and  constant  similitude  of  things.  Fiction  relieves  us  by 
unexpected  turns  and  changes,  and  thus  not  only  delights, 
but  inculcates  morality  and  nobleness  of  soul.  It  raises 
the  mind  by  accommodating  the  images  of  things  to  our 
desires,  and  not,  like  history  and  reason,  subjecting  the 
mind  to  things."  ^ 

From  this  view  of  the  subject,  it  is  obvious  that  the 
fictions  framed  by  mankind,  or  the  narratives  with  which 
they  are  delighted,  will  vary  with  their  feelings,  and  with 
the  state  of  society.  Since  Fiction  may  be  regarded  as 
select  and  highly  coloured  history,  those  adventures  would 

^  De  Aug.  Sclent,  lib.  ii.  p.  1. 


INTRODUCTION.  3 

naturally  form  the  basis  of  it  which  had  already  come  to 
pass,  or  whieli  were  most  likely  to  occur.  Accordingly,  in 
a  warlike  age,  it  would  he  peculiarly  employed  in  tales  of 
enterprise  and  chivalry,  and,  in  times  of  gallantry,  in  the 
detail  of  love  adventures. 

The  History  of  Fiction,  therefore,  becomes,  in  a  con- 
siderable degree,  interesting  to  the  philosopher,  and  occu- 
pies an  important  place  in  the  history  of  the  progress  of 
society.  By  contemi)lating  the  fables  of  a  people,  we  have 
a  successive  delineation  of  their  prevalent  modes  of  think- 
ing, a  picture  of  their  feelings  and  tastes  and  habits.  In 
this  respect  prose  fiction  appears  to  possess  advantages 
considerably  superior  either  to  history  or  poetry.  In  his- 
tory there  is  too  little  individuality ;  in  j^oetry  too  much 
effort,  to  permit  the  poet  and  historian  to  portray  the 
manners  living  as  they  rise.  History  treats  of  man,  as  it 
were,  in  the  mass,  and  the  individuals  whom  it  paints  are 
regarded  merely,  or  jirincipally,  in  a  public  light,  without 
taking  into  consideration  their  private  feelings,  tastes,  or 
habits.  Poetry  is  in  general  capable  of  too  little  detail, 
while  its  paintings,  at  the  same  time,  are  usually  too  much 
forced  and  exaggerated.  But  in  Fiction  we  can  discrimi- 
nate without  impropriety,  and  entei'  into  detail  without 
meanness.  Hence  it  has  been  remarked,  that  it  is  chiefly 
in  the  fictions  of  an  age  that  we  can  discover  the  modes  of 
living,  dress,  and  manners  of  the  period.  "  Finally,"  says 
Borromeo,  (in  the  preface  to  the  Notizia  de'  Novellieri 
Itahani,)  "  we  should  remark  the  light  that  novels  spread 
on  the  history  of  the  times.  He  who  doubts  of  this  may 
read  the  Eulogium  of  Bandello,  and  he  will  be  satisfied 
that  his  Novelliero  may  be  regarded  as  a  magic  mirror, 
which  distinctly  reflects  the  customs  and  manners  of  the 
sixteenth  century,  an  age  fertile  in  great  events  ;  and  it 
also  acc|uaints  us  with  many  literary  and  political  anec- 
dotes, which  the  historians  of  the  revolutions  of  our  states 
have  not  transmitted  to  posterity.  I,  myself,  can  aftirm 
that  in  these  tales  I  have  found  recorded  authentic  anec- 
dotes of  the  private  lives  of  sovereigns,  which  would  in  vain 
be  sought  for  in  ordinary  histories." 

But  even  if  the  utility  which  is  derived  from  Fiction  were 
less  than  it  is,  how  much  are  we  indebted  to  it  for  pleasure 


4  INTRODUCTION. 

and  enjoyment!  It  sweetens  solitude  and  cliarms  sorrow 
— it  occupies  the  attention  of  the  vacant,  and  unbends  the 
mind  of  the  philosoj^her.  Like  the  enchanter,  Fiction 
shows  us,  as  it  were  in  a  mirror,  the  most  agreeable  ob- 
jects ;  recalls  from  a  distance  the  forms  which  are  dear  to 
us,  and  soothes  our  own  griefs  by  awakening  our  sympathy 
for  others.  By  its  means  the  recluse  is  placed  in  the 
midst  of  society ;  and  he  who  is  harassed  and  agitated  in 
the  city  is  transported  to  rural  tranquillity  and  repose. 
The  rude  are  refined  by  an  introduction,  as  it  were,  to  the 
higher  orders  of  mankind,  and  even  the  dissipated  and 
selfish  are,  in  some  degree,  corrected  by  those  paintings  of 
virtue  and  simple  nature,  which  must  ever  be  employed  by 
the  novelist,  if  he  wish  to  awaken  emotion  or  delight. 

And  such  seems  now  to  be  the  common  idea  which  is 
entertained  of  the  value  of  Fiction.  Accordingly,  this 
j^owerful  instrument  of  virtue  and  hap23iness,  after  having 
been  long  despised,  on  account  of  the  purposes  to  which  it 
had  been  made  subservient,  has  gradually  become  more 
justly  appreciated,  and  more  highly  valued.  Works  of 
Fiction  have  been  produced,  abounding  at  once  with  the 
most  interesting  details,  and  the  most  sagacious  reflections, 
and  which  differ  from  treatises  of  abstract  philosophy  only 
by  the  greater  justness  of  their  views,  and  the  higher  inte- 
rest which  they  excite.  And  it  may  be  presumed,  that  a 
path,  at  once  so  useful  and  delightful,  will  continue  to  be 
trod :  it  may  be  presumed,  that  virtue  and  vice,  the  con- 
duct of  humaD  life,  what  we  are  expected  to  feel,  and  what 
we  are  called  on  to  do  and  to  suffer,  will  long  be  taught  by 
example,  a  method  which  seems  better  fitted  to  improve 
the  mind  than  abstract  propositions  and  dry  discussions. 

Entertaining  such  views  of  the  nature  and  utility  of 
fiction,  and  indebted  to  its  charms  for  some  solace  and  en- 
joyment, I  have  employed  a  few  hours  of  relaxation  in 
drawing  up  the  following  notices  of  its  gradual  progress. 
No  works  are  perhaps  more  useful  or  agreeable,  than  those 
which  delineate  the  advance  of  the  human  mind — the  his- 
tory of  what  different  individuals  have  effected  in  the 
course  of  ages,  for  the  instruction,  or  even  the  innocent 
amusement,  of  their  species.  Such  a  delineation  is  attended 
with  innumerable  advantages :    It  furnishes  a  collection  of 


INTRODUCTION.  6 

interesting  facts  concerning  the  philosophy  of  mind,  which 
we  thus  study  not  in  an  abstract  and  introspective  method, 
but  ill  a  manner  certain  and  experimental.  It  retrieves 
from  oblivion  a  number  of  individuals,  whose  now  obsolete 
works  are  perhaps  in  detail  unworthy  of  public  attention, 
but  which  promoted  and  diffused,  in  their  own  day,  light 
and  pleasure,  and  form  as  it  were  landmarks  which  testify 
the  course  and  progress  of  genius.  By  contemplating  also 
not  only  what  has  been  done,  but  the  mode  in  which  it  has 
been  achieved,  a  method  may  perhaps  be  discovered  of 
proceeding  still  farther,  of  avoiding  the  errors  into  which 
our  predecessors  have  fallen,  and  of  following  the  paths  in 
which  they  have  met  success.  Retrospective  works  of  this 
nature,  therefore,  combine  utility,  justice,  and  pleasure ; 
and  accordingly,  in  different  branches  of  philosophy  and 
literature,  various  histories  of  their  progress  and  fortunes 
have  appeared. 

I  have  attempted  in  the  following  work  to  afford  such  a 
delineation  as  is  now^  alluded  to,  of  the  origin  and  progress 
of  fiction,  of  the  various  forms  which  it  has  successively 
assumed,  and  the  different  authors  by  whom  the  prose 
works  in  this  department  of  literature  have  been  most 
successfully  cultivated  and  promoted.  I  say  ^jrose  "works, 
since  such  alone  are  the  proper  objects  of  this  undertaking. 
It  was  objected  to  a  former  edition,  that  I  had  commenced 
the  History  of  Fiction  only  in  the  decline  of  literature,  and 
had  neglected  the  most?  sublime  and  lofty  efforts  of  mytho- 
logy and  poetry.  But  it  never  was  my  intention  to  con- 
sider fiction  as  connected  with  these  topics,  (an  enquiry 
which,  if  properly  conducted,  would  form  a  work  of  greater 
extent  than  the  whole  of  the  present  volumes,  and  which 
well  deserves  a  peculiar  treatise,)  but  merely  to  consider 
the  different  fictions  in  prose,  which  have  been  given  to  the 
world  under  the  name  of  romance  or  novel.  That  I  have 
begun  late,  arises  from  the  circumstance,  that  the  works  of 
which  I  have  undertaken  a  description  were  late  in  making 
their  appearance ;  and  I  am  the  more  strongly  induced  to 
direct  my  enquiries  to  this  subject,  as  I  am  not  aware  that 
any  writer  has  hitherto  presented  a  full  and  continued 
view  of  it,  though  detached  parts  have  been  separately 
treated  w*ith  much  learninsr  and  infjenuitv. 


b  INTRODUCTION. 

Huet,  who  was  the  first  that  investigated  this  matter, 
has  written  an  essay  on  the  Origin  of  Romances.  That  part 
of  his  work  which  relates  to  the  Greek  romances,  though  very 
succinct,  is  sufiiciently  clear,  and  stored  with  sound  criti- 
cism. But  having  brought  down  the  account  of  fiction  to 
the  later  Greeks,  and  just  entered  on  those  composed  by 
the  western  nations,  which  have  now  the  name  of  Romances 
almost  appropriated  to  them,  "  he  j^uts  the  change  on  his 
readers,"  as  Warburton  has  remarked,  (Notes  to  Love's 
Labour's  Lost,)  "  and  instead  of  giving  us  an  account  of  the 
Tales  of  Chivalry,  one  of  the  most  curious  and  interesting 
parts  of  the  subject  of  which  he  promised  to  treat,  he  con- 
tents himself  with  an  account  of  the  poems  of  the  Provencal 
writers,  called  likewise  romances  ;  and  so,  under  the  equi- 
voque of  a  common  term,  he  drops  his  proper  subject,  and 
entertains  us  with  another  which  had  no  relation  to  it 
except  in  the  name." 

Subsequent  to  the  publication  of  this  treatise  by  Huet, 
several  works  were  projected  in  France,  with  the  design  of 
exhibiting  a  general  view  of  fictitious  comi^osition.  The 
first  was  the  Bibliotheque  des  Romans,  by  the  Abbe  Lenglet 
Dufresnoy,  in  two  volumes,  published  in  1735,  under  the 
name  of  Gordon  de  Percel.  It  is  a  mere  catalogue,  how- 
ever, and  wants  accuracy,  the  only  quality  which  can 
render  a  catalogue  valuable. 

In  1775,  a  work,  also  entitled  Bibliotheque  des  Romans, 
was  commenced  on  a  much  more  extensive  j^lan,  and  was 
intended  to  comprise  an  analysis  of  the  chief  works  of 
fiction  from  the  earliest  times.  The  design  was  conceived 
and  traced  by  the  Marquis  de  Paulmy,  whose  extensive 
library  supplied  the  contributors  with  the  materials  from 
which  their  abstracts  were  drawn.  The  conductor  was  M. 
de  Bastide,  one  of  the  feeble  imita-tors  of  the  younger 
Crebillon.  He  supplied,  however,  few  articles,  but  en- 
joyed as  co-operators,  the  Chevalier  de  Mayer,  and  M.  de 
Cardonne ;  as  also  the  Comte  de  Tressan,  whose  contribu- 
tions have  been  likewise  published  in  the  collection  of  his 
own  works,  under  the  title  CorjDS  d'Extraits. 

In  the  Bibliotheque  des  Romans,  prose  works  of  fiction 
are  divided  into  classes,  and  a  summary  of  one  romance . 
from  each  order  is  exhibited  in  turn.     This  compilation 


INTRODUCTION.  7 

was   published  periodically  till  the  year  1787,  and  four 
voliniies  were  annually  given  to  the  world. 

Next  to  the  enormous  length,  and  the  frequent  selection 
of  worthless  materials,  the  principal  objection  to  the  work 
is  the  arrangement  adopted  by  the  editors.  Thus,  a 
romance  of  chivalry  intervenes  between  two  Greek  ro- 
mances, or  is  presented  alternately  with  a  French  heroic 
romance,  or  modern  novel.  Hence  the  reader  is  not 
furnished  with  a  view  of  the  progress  of  Fiction  in  con- 
tinuity ;  he  cannot  trace  the  imitations  of  successive 
fal)lers,  nor  the  way  in  which  fiction  has  been  modified  by 
the  manners  of  an  age.  There  is  besides  little  or  no 
criticism  of  the  novels  or  romances  which  are  analyzed, 
and  the  whole  work  seems  to  have  been  written  under  the 
eye  of  the  sultan  who  said  he  would  cut  off  the  head  of  the 
first  man  who  made  a  reflection.  But  even  the  utility  of 
the  abstracts,  which  should  have  been  the  principal  object 
of  the  work,  is  in  a  great  measure  lost,  as  it  appears  to 
have  been  the  intention  of  the  editors  rather  to  present  an 
entertaining  story,  somewhat  resembling  that  of  the 
original,  than  a  faithful  analysis.  Characters  and  senti- 
ments are  thus  exhibited,  incongruous  vdth.  ancient  ro- 
mance, and  abhorrent  from  the  opinions  of  the  era  whose 
manners  it  reflects.  It  is  only  as  presenting  a  true  and 
lively  picture  of  the  age,  that  romance  has  claims  on  the 
attention  of  the  antiquarian  or  philosopher ;  and  if  its 
genuine  remains  be  adulterated  with  a  mixture  of  senti- 
ments and  manners  of  modern  growth,  the  composition  is 
heterogeneous  and  uninstructive.  (Eose's  "Aniadis  de 
Gaul.") 

Abstracts  of  romances  omitted  in  the  Bibliothcque  des 
Eomans  have  been  published  in  Melanges  tirces  d'vme 
Grande  Bibliothcque,  which  is  a  selection  from  the  scarce 
manuscripts  and  publications  contained  in  the  library  of 
the  Marquis  de  Paulmy.  The  work  has  also  been  con- 
tinued in  the  Nouvelle  Bibliothcque  des  Eomans,  which 
comprises  abridgments  of  the  most  recent  productions  of 
the  French,  English,  and  German  novelists. 

In  this  country  there  has  been  no  attempt  towards  a 
general  History  of  Fiction.  Dr.  Percy,  Warton,  and 
others,  have  written,  as  is  well  known,  with  much  learning 


8  INTRODUCTION. 

and  ingenuity,  on  that  branch  of  the  subject  which  relates 
to  the  origin  of  Romantic  Fiction — the  marvellous  decora- 
tions of  chivalry.  This  enquiry,  however,  comprehends 
but  a  small  part  of  the  subject,  and  even  here  research 
has  oftener  been  directed  to  the  establishment  of  a  theory, 
than  to  the  investigation  of  truth. 

In  the  following  work  I  shall  try  to  present  a  faithful 
analysis  of  those  early  and  scarce  productions  which  form, 
as  it  were,  the  landmarks  of  Fiction.  Select  passages  will 
occasionally  be  added,  and  I  shall  endeavour  by  criticisms 
to  give  such  a  sketch  as  may  enable  the  reader  to  form 
some  idea  of  the  nature  and  merit  of  the  works  themselves, 
and  of  the  transmission  of  fable  from  one  age  and  country 
to  another. 

Edinburgh,  \Qth  Feb.,  1816. 


HISTORY    OF    FICTION 


CHAPTER   I. 

ORIGIN     OF     FICTITIOUS     XARRATIYE. EARLIEST     WRITERS 

OF   GREEK    ROMANCE. HELIODORUS. ACHILLES    TATIUS. 

LONGUS. CHARITON. JOANNES    DAMASCENUS. ETJS- 

TATHIUS. REMARKS   ON    THIS    SPECIES    OF    COMPOSITION. 

THE  nature  and  utility  of  fiction  having  Leen  pointed 
out,  and  the  design  of  the  work  explained  in  the  intro- 
ductory remarks,  it  now  remains  to  prosecute  what  forms 
the  profjer  object  of  this  undertaking, — the  origin  and 
progress  of  prose  works  of  fiction,  with  the  analysis  and 
criticism  of  the  most  celebrated  which  have  been  succes- 
sively presented  to  the  world. 

"We  have  already  seen  that  fiction  has  in  all  ages  formed 
the  delight  of  the  rudest  and  the  most  polished  nations.  It 
was  late,  however,  and  after  the  decline  of  its  nobler  litera- 
ture, that  fictions  in  prose  came  to  be  cultivated  as  a 
species  of  composition  in  Greece.  In  early  times,  the  mere 
art  of  writing  was  too  difficult  and  dignified  to  be  employed 
in  prose,  and  even  the  laws  of  the  principal  legislators  were 
then  promulgated  in  verse.  In  the  better  ages  of  Greece, 
all  who  felt  the  mens  clivijiior,  and  of  whose  studies  the  em- 
bellishments of  fiction  were  the  objects,  naturally  wrote  in 
verse,  and  men  of  genius  would  have  disdained  to  occupy 
themselves  with  a  simple  domestic  tale  in  prose.  This 
mode  of  composition  was  reserved  for  a  later  period,  when 
the  ranks  of  poetry  had  been  filled  with  great  names,  and 
the  very  abundance  of  great  models  had  produced  satiety. 
Poetical  i)roductions  too,  in  order  to  be  relished,  require  to 


10  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

be  read  with  a  spark  of  tlie  same  feeling  in  which  they  are 
composed,  and  in  a  luxurious  age,  and  among  a  luxurious 
people,  demand  even  too  much  effort  in  the  reader,  or 
hearer,  to  be  generally  pojjular.  To  such,  a  simple  narra- 
tive, a  history  of  ludicrous  or  strange  adventures,  forms 
the  favourite  amusement ;  and  we  thus  find  that  listening 
to  the  recital  of  tales  has  at  all  times  been  the  peculiar  enter- 
tainment of  the  indolent  and  voluptuous  nations  of  the 
East.  A  taste,  accordingly,  for  this  species  of  narrative, 
or  composition,  seems  to  have  been  most  early  and  most 
generally  prevalent  in  Persia  and  other  Asiatic  regions, 
where  the  nature  of  the  climate  and  effeminacy  of  the  in- 
habitants consj)ired  to  promote  its  cultivation. 

The  people  of  Asia  Minor,  who  ^^ossessed  the  fairest 
portion  of  the  globe,  were  addicted  to  every  species  of 
luxury  and  magnificence ;  and  having  fallen  under  the 
dominion  of  the  Persians,  imbibed  with  the  utmost  avidity 
the  amusing  fables  of  their  conquerors.  The  Milesians, 
who  were  a  colony  of  Greeks,  and  spoke  the  Ionic  dialect, 
excelled  all  the  neighbouring  nations  in  ingenuity,  and  first 
caught  from  the  Persians  this  rage  for  fiction :  but  the 
tales  they  invented,  and  of  which  the  name  has  become  so 
celebrated,  have  all  perished.  There  is  little  known  of 
them,  except  that  they  were  not  of  a  very  moral  tendency, 
and  were  principally  written  by  a  person  of  the  name  of 
Aristides,  whose  tales  were  translated  into  Latin  by 
Sisenna,  the  Eoman  historian,  about  the  time  of  the  civil 
wars  of  Marius  and  Sylla.  Huet,  Vossius,^  and  the  other 
writers  by  whom  the  stories  of  Aristides  have  been  men- 
tioned, concur  in  representing  them  as  short  amatory  nar- 
ratives in  prose ;  yet  it  would  aj^pear  from  two  lines  in 
Ovid's  "Tristia,"  that  some  of  them,  at  least,  had  been 
written  in  verse  : — 

Junxit  Aristides  Milesia  carmina  seeum — 
Pulsus  Aristides  nee  tamen  urbe  sua  est.^ 

^  De  Historicis  Grsecis. — Aristides. 

^  There  is,  however,  another  reading,  "  crimina,"  which  Manso  follows 
in  his  German  translation,  remarking  that  Aristides'  work  was  certainly- 
composed  in  prose.  Sisenna  translated  it  into  prose,  "  nee  obfuit  illi — 
Historiae  turpes  inseruisse  jocos." — Trist.  ii.  443,  and  412,  and  Lucian 
and  Apuleius,  both  prose  writers,  speak  of  the  Greek  as  their  model  in 


CH.  I.]  THE    MILESIAN    TALES.  11 

But  tlioup:li  the  Milesian  tales  have  perished,  of  their 
nature  some  idea  may  be  formed  from  the  stories  of  Par- 
thenius  of  Nieaea,  many  of  which,  there  is  reason  to  believe, 
are  extracted  from  these  ancient  fables,  or  at  least  are 
written  in  the  same  spirit/  The  tales  of  Parthenius  are 
al>out  forty  in  number,  but  appear  to  be  mere  sketches. 
They  chiefly  consist  of  accounts  of  every  species  of  seduc- 
tion* and  tiie  criminal  passions  of  the  nearest  relations. 
The  principal  characters  generally  come  to  a  deplorable 
end,  though  seldom  proportioned  to  what  they  merited  by 
their  vices.  Parthenius  seems  to  have  grafted  the  Milesian 
tales  on  the  my thological  fables  of  Apollodorus  and  similar 
writers,  and  also  to  have  borrowed  from  early  historians 
and  poets,  whose  productions  have  not  descended  to  us. 
His  work  is  inscribed  to  the  Latin  poet  Cornelius  Grallus, 
the  contemporary  and  friend  of  Virgil.'  Indeed  the  author 
says  that  it  was  composed  for  his  use,  to  furnish  him  with 
materials  for  elegies  and  other  poems.'' 

narration  and  expression  [Lucian,  Amores,  §  1,  and  Apuleius,  in  the 
introduction  to  his  Metamorphoses.] — Liebrccht.  The  tales  of  JSybaris 
were  equally  famous  and  infamous  with  those  of  Miletus  (Ovid,  Trist. 
ii.  4,  17).  iElian  and  Aristophanes  have  preserved  an  outline  of  two  of  the 
tales  of  Sybaris,  which,  however,  are  naive  and  irreproachable  enough. 
(See  Landau  Quellen,  1884,  p.  300  ;  see  chap.  ii.  of  the  present  work). 

^  The  work  of  Parthenius,  Trspi  tpwriKioi'  Tra^in-iarui}',  is  a  collection 
of  thirty-six  abstracts  of  love  legends  collected  in  brief  form  from  histo- 
rians and  poets,  and  dedicated  to  the  compilers  friend,  the  Koman  poet 
Cornelius  Gallus.  The  object  of  the  compilation  is  partly  to  elucidate 
allusions  occurring  in  poetical  works,  partly  to  supply  themes  for  elegiac 
or  epic  narratives  of  love  adventures,  as  appears  from  the  dedication  of 
Parthenius.  They  thus  afford,  remarks  Kohde  (Griech,  Rom.  p.  114), 
the  most  explicit  testimony  to  the  close  connection  between  the  Koman 
artificial  poetry  of  the  early  Empire  with  the  Alexandrian  .school  of 
imaginative  literature,  and  supply  an  invaluable  source  of  information 
upon  the  popular  erotic  tales,  known  to  us  otherwise  only  by  meagre 
fratrments,  and  upon  their  recital  in  both  prose  and  poetical  writers.  A 
further  element  of  value  is  added  by  the  care  of  the  compiler  in  generally 
indicating  the  sources  whence  he  has  drawn,  such  as  the  Milesian, 
Naxian,  Pallenian,  Lydian,  Trojan,  and  Bythinian  tales.  (See  Kohde, 
Gr.  Kom.  p.  114,  and*  Mueller.  Hist.  Lit.  Cjr.  iii.  p.  354.) 

^  Eclog.  10. 

■■'  Conon,  the  grammarian,  a  contemporary  of  Parthenius,  was  the 
author  of  fifty  SinyljCfHc,  of  whi<-h  abstra(;ts  have  been  preserved  by 
Photius,  Patriarch  of  Alexandria.  They  are  for  the  most  part  of  mythical- 
historical  character.     No.  38  is  essentially  the  story  of  the  judgment  of 


12  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

The  inhabitants  of  Asia  Minor,  and  especially  the  Mile- 
sians, had  a  considerable  intercourse  with  the  G-reeks  of 
Attica  and  Peloponnesus,  whose  genius  also  naturally  dis- 
posed them  to  fiction :  they  were  delighted  with  the  tales 
of  the  eastern  nations,  and  pleasure  produced  imitation/ 

Previous,  however,  to  the  age  of  Alexander  the  G-reat, 
little  seems  to  have  been  attempted  in  this  style  of  com- 
position by  the  European  G-reeks  ;  but  the  more  frequent 
intercourse  which  his  conquests  introduced  between  the 
Greek  and  Asiatic  nations,  oj^ened  at  once  all  the  sources 
of  fiction/  Clearchus,  who  was  a  disciple  of  Aristotle,  and 
who  wrote  a  history  of  fictitious  love  adventures,  seems  to 
have  been  the  first  author  who  gained  any  celebrity  by  this 
species  of  composition.  Of  the  romances,  however,  which 
were  written  previous  to  the  appearance  of  the  Theagenes 
and  Chariclea  of  Heliodorus,  I  am  compelled  to  give  a  very 
meagre  account,  as  the  works  themselves  have  perished, 
and  our  knowledge  of  them  is  chiefly  derived  from  the 
summary  which  is  contained  in  the  Bibliotheca  of  Photius. 

Some  years  after  the  composition  of  the  fictitious  history  of 
Clearchus,  Antonius  Diogenes  wrote  a  more  j^erf  ect  romance 
than  had  hitherto  appeared,  founded  on  the  wandering 
adventures  and  loves  of  Dinias  and  Dercyllis,  entitled, 

Sancbo  Panza  on  the  staff  (Don  Quixote,  pt.  ii.  cb.  45).  This  is  found 
in  the  life  of  St.  Nicholas  of  Bari,  in  the  Legencia  Aurea  of  Jacobus  de 
Voragine,  whence  Cervantes  may  have  derived  it.  The  same  legend 
is  current  among  the  Mohammedans  (Weil,  Biblische  Legenden  der 
Mubammedaner,  p.  213),  and  occurs  in  the  Talmud  (Bliitter  fiir  Israels 
Gegenwart  and  Zukunft  Erster  Jahrg.  Berlin,  1845,  p.  27).  There  is  a 
similar  local  legend  in  the  Brandenburg  jNIarch  (Magazin  fiir  die  Lite- 
ratur  des  Auslandes,  1843,  No.  77). — Lieb. 

^  Indian  literature  indeed  bears  traces  of  Greek  influence  subsequent 
to  the  expedition  of  Alexander,  and  there  is  sparing  indication  of  the  in- 
verse. See,  however,  note  on  Heliodorus  (pp.  22,  23  infra).  Dunlop 
cites  but  two  works,  those  of  Clearchus  and  Antonius  Diogenes,  in  sup- 
port of  his  assertion.  Opinions  differ  widely  upon  the  Erotica  of  Clear- 
chus. By  some  it  is  considered  to  have  been  a  philosophic  treatise  upon 
loA'e,  by  others  a  romance,  by  others  a  collection  of  short  erotic  tales. 
Antonius  Diogenes  flourished  probably  considerably  after  the  commence- 
ment of  the  Christian  era,  and  not  earlier  than  the  end  of  the  second 
century,  according  to  Passow  (in  Ersch  and  Grubei''s  "  Encyclop.").  His 
work,  moreover,  exhibits  no  special  indication  of  Eastern  influence. 
For  somewhat  fuller  notice  of  this  question,  see  Liebrecht's  notes, 
p.  456. 


CH.  I.^       ANTONIUS  DIOGENES — DINIAS  AND  DERCYLLIS.        13 


Of    the    INCREDIBLE    ThINGS    IN    ThULE.' 

That  island,  of  which  the  position  is  one  of  the  most  doubtful 
points  in  ancient  geo|j:ra}>hy,  was  not,  according  to  Diogenes, 
the  most  distant  of  the  globe,  as  he  talks  of  several  beyond 
it :  Thule  is  but  a  single  station  for  his  adventurers,  and 
many  of  the  most  incredible  things  are  beheld  in  other 
quarters  of  the  world.  The  idea  of  the  work  of  Diogenes 
is  said  to  have  been  taken  from  the  Odyssey,  and  in  fact 
many  of  the  incidents  seem  to  have  been  borrowed  from 
that  poem.  Indeed  the  author  mentions  a  number  of 
writers  prior  to  himself,  particularly  Antii)hanes,  from 
whom  he  had  collected  these  wonderful  relations.  Aulus 
Gellius  tells  us,  that  coming  on  one  occasion  from  Greece  to 
Italy,  he  landed  at  Brundusium,  in  Calabria,  where  he 
purchased  a  collection  of  fabulous  histories,  under  the 
names  of  Aristeus,  Ctesias,  and  Onesicritus,  which  were 
full  of  stories  concerning  nations  which  saw  during  night, 
Init  were  blind  during  day,  and  various  other  fictions, 
which,  we  shall  find,  were  inserted  in  the  "  Incredible 
Things  in  Thule." '"  The  work  of  Diogenes  is  praised  by 
Photius  for  its  jmrity  of  style,  and  the  delightful  variety 
of.  its  adventures;  yet,  to  judge  from  that  author's  abridg- 
ment, it  seems  to  have  contained  a  series  of  the  most 
improbable  incidents.  But  though  filled  with  the  most 
trilling  and  incredible  narrations,  it  is  deserving  of  atten- 
tion, as  it  seems  to  have  been  a  repository  from  which 
Achilles  Tatius  and  succeeding  fablers  derived  the  materials 
of  less  defective  romances. 

Dinias  flying  from  Arcadia,  his  native  country,  arrives  at 
the  mouth  of  the  river  Tanais.  Urged  by  the  intensity  of 
the  cold,  he  proceeds  towards  the  east,  and,  having  made  a 
circuit  round  the  globe,  he  at  length  reaches  Thule  [c.  2]. 
Here  he  forms  an  acquaintance  with  Dercyllis,  the  heroine 
of  the  romance,  who  had  been  driven  from  Tyre  along  with 

^  'Ai'TOJi'iov  Aioyirovc  toji'  vir'tp  OorXijv  uTna-iur  Xoyoi  For  a  discussion 
of  the  theories  respecting  the  locality  of  Thule,  see  Elton's  "  Origins  of 
English  History,"  p.  68. 

-  Gellius,  however,  onl}'  says  that  they  saw  better  at  night,  a  circum- 
stance which  has  reference  to  the  nocturnal  solar  phenomena  in  very 
northern  latitudes. 


14  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

her  brother  Mantinia,  by  the  intrigues  of  Paapis,  an  Egyp- 
tian priest.  She  relates  to  Dinias  how  she  had  wandered 
through  Ehodes  and  Crete,  and  also  among  the  Cimme- 
rians, where  she  had  a  view  of  the  infernal  regions  [c.  3], 
through  favour  of  her  deceased  servant  Myrto ; — how, 
being  separated  from  her  brother,  she  arrived  with  a, 
person  of  the  name  of  Ceryllus  at  the  tomb  of  the  Syrens, 
and  afterwards  at  a  city  in  Spain,  where  the  people  saw 
during  the  night,  a  privilege  which  was  neutralized  by 
total  bhndness  during  day. — Dercyllis  further  relates  how 
she  travelled  among  the  Celts,  and  a  nation  of  Amazons 
[c.  4]  ;  and  that  in  Sicily  she  again  met  with  her  brother 
Mantinia,  who  related  to  her  adventures  still  more  extra- 
ordinary than  her  own ;  having  seen  all  the  sights  in  the 
sun,  moon,  and  most  remote  islands  of  the  globe  [c.  5]. 
Dercyllis,  after  many  other  vicissitudes,  arrives  in  Thule 
[c.  6],  whither  she  is  followed  by  her  old  enemy  Paapis, 
who,  by  his  magic  art,  makes  her  die  every  night  and  come 
alive  again  in  the  morning ; — an  easy  kind  of  punishment, 
being  equivalent  to  a  refreshing  naj).  The  secret  of  these 
incantations,  which  chiefly  consisted  in  sj^itting  in  the 
victim's  face,  is  detected  by  Azulis,  who  had  accompanied 
Dinias  into  Thule,  and  the  spells  of  the  powerful  magician 
being  through  his  means  broken,  Dercyllis  and  Mantinia 
return  to  their  native  country  [c.  7,  8].  After  the  depar- 
ture of  his  friends,  Dinias  wanders  beyond  Thule,  and  ad- 
vances towards  the  Pole.  In  these  regions  he  says  the 
darkness  continued  sometimes  a  month,  sometimes  six 
months,  but  at  certain  places  for  a  whole  year ;  and  the 
length  of  the  day  was  proportioned  to  that  of  the  night. 
At  last,  awakening  one  morning,  he  finds  himself  at  Tyre, 
where  he  meets  with  his  old  friends  Mantinia  and  Dercyllis, 
with  whom  he  passes  the  remainder  of  his  life  [c.  9]. 

Besides  the  principal  subject  of  the  romance,  of  which  an 
abstract  has  been  given  by  Photius,  Porj^hyrius,  in  his  Life 
of  Pythagoras,  has  preserved  a  long  and  fabulous  account 
of  that  mysterious  philosopher,  which,  he  tells  us,  formed 
an  episode  of  the  Incredible  Things  in  Thule,  and  was  re- 
lated to  Dercyllis  by  Aristseus,  one  of  the  companions  of 
her  flight  from  Tyre,  and  an  eminent  disciple  of  Pytha- 
goras.    Mnesarchus  one  day  found,  under  a  large  poplar. 


CH.  I.]       ANTONIUS  DIOGENES — DINIAS  AND  DERCYLLIS.       15 

au  infant,  who  lay  gazing  undazzled  on  the  sun,  holding  a 
reed  in  his  mouth,  and  sipping  the  dew  which  dropped  on 
liim  from  the  ]»oplar.  Tliis  child  was  carried  home  l>y 
Mnesarchus,  who  bestowed  on  him  the  name  of  Aristseus, 
and  brought  him  up  with  his  youngest  son  Pythagoras. 
At  length  Aristaeus  became  one  of  the  scholars  of  that 
philosopher,  along  with  Zamolxis,  the  legislator  of  the 
Getae,  after  he  had  undergone  an  inspect io  corporis,  to 
which  the  Samian  sage  invariably  subjected  his  disciples, 
as  he  judged  of  the  mental  faculties  by  the  external  form. 
Aristaeus  was  thus  enabled  to  give  an  account  of  the  travels 
of  his  master,  and  the  mystical  learning  he  acquired  among 
the  Egyptians  and  Babylonians ;  of  the  tranquil  life  which 
he  passed  in  Italy,  and  the  mode  in  which  he  healed 
diseases  by  incantations  and  magic  poems ;  for  he  knew 
verses  of  such  power  that  they  produced  oblivion  of  pain, 
soothed  sorrow,  and  repressed  all  inordinate  a2)2)etites. 

The  romance  of  the  Incredible  Things  beyond  Thule 
was  dedicated  to  the  author's  sister  Isidora,  and  consisted 
of  twenty-four  books,  in  which  Dinias  was  represented  as 
relating  his  own  adventures,  and  those  he  had  heard  from 
Dercyllis,  to  Cymba,  who  had  been  sent  to  Tyre  by  the 
Arcadians  to  prevail  on  him  to  return  to  his  native  country. 
The  account  of  these  adventures  is,  at  the  beginning  of  the 
romance,  described  as  having  been  engraved  on  cypress 
tablets  by  one  of  Cymba' s  attendants ;  at  the  request  of 
Dinias  they  were  placed  in  his  tomb  after  his  death,  and 
are  feigned  to  have  been  discovered  by  Alexander  the  Great 
during  the  siege  of  Tyre.^ 

After  the  composition  of  the  Dinias  and  Dercyllis  of 

^  Photius,  Bibliotheca  Cod.  156,  p.  355,  ed.  1653,  Rotbomagi.  In  the 
"  Keisefabulistik  "  Kolide  discerns  one  of  the  points  of  departnre  whence 
the  Greek  imaginary  romance  was  developed.  He  is  accordingly  anxious 
to  establish  the  date  of  Diogenes,  wliich  upon  a  numerous  array  of 
authorities  he  gives  as  the  first  half  of  the  third  century.  (Gr.  Kom. 
p.  252.)  The  long  series  of  adventures  in  the  Romance  of  lamblichus 
is  merely  a  development  upon  the  kind  of  work  represented  by  the  story 
of  the  incredible  things  beyond  Thule.  The  movement  is  entirely  ob- 
jective, there  is  no  play  of  the  emotions.  A  couple  of  lovers  fly  before 
their  pursuers  from  land  to  land,  amid  a  gloomy  alternation  of  misfor- 
tunes imminent  ruin  is  ever  averted  at  the  last  moment,  and  virtue 
finally  obtains  its  triumph  and  reward  in  plenary  i.appincss.  (Ibid.  p. 
378.) 


16  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  1. 

Diogenes,  a  considerable  j^eriod  seems  to  have  elapsed 
without  the  production  of  any  fictitious  narrative  deserving 
the  apj^ellation  of  a  romance. 

Lucius  Patrensis  and  Lucian,  who  were  nearly  contem- 
porary, lived  during  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Marcus 
Aurelius:  Lucius  collected  accounts  of  magical  transfor- 
mations ;  ^  Photius  remarks,  that  his  style  is  dehghtful  by 
its  perspicuity,  purity,  and  sweetness,  but  as  his  work  com- 
prehends a  relation  of  incidents  2)rof essedly  incredible,  with- 
out any  attempt  on  the  part  of  the  author  to  give  them 
the  appearance  of  reality,  it  cannot  perhaps  be  properly 
admitted  into  the  number  of  romances. 

A  considerable  portion  of  the  Metamorphoses  of  Lucius 
were  abridged  and  transferred  by  Lucian  into  his  Ass,  to 
which  he  also  gave  the  name  of  Lucius ;  a  work  which 
may  perhaps  be  again  mentioned  when  we  come  to  speak 
of  the  Golden  Ass  of  Apuleius,  a  longer  and  more  cele- 
brated production  of  the  same  species. 

About  the  time  these  authors  lived,  lamblichus  ^  wrote 
his 

Babylonica. 

The  romance  itself  has  been  lost,  but  the  epitome  given 
by  Photius  shows  that  little  improvement  had  been  made 

^  Called  by  Photius  (Biblioth.  Cod.  129)  Mero/iop^ocrat^v  \6yoi  dLCKpopoi. 
According  to  Photius,  Lucius  liimself  believed  in  these  marvels,  includ- 
ing the  transformation  of  men  into  animals,  and  vice  versa. — Lieb. 
Whether  the  supposed  Lucius  of  Pati'te,  or  Lucian,  is  the  prior  author 
of  the  story,  the  original  of  which,  probably  derived  from  early  Aryan 
sources,  and  formed  one  of  the  INIilesian  Tales,  has  been  much  contested 
(See  the  matter  discussed  in  J.  P.  Courier's  "  La  Luciade  ou  I'Ane  de 
Lucius  de  Patras,"  Paris,  182S,  preface,  p.  x ;  E.  Kohde's  "Lucian's 
Schrift,-'  1869  ;  and  De  Luciano  libelU  qui  inscribitur  Lucius  sive 
asinus  actore,  scripsit  C.  F.  E.,  Knaut.  Lipsiie,  1868).  The  Aveight  of 
ai-gument,  as  of  authority,  is  in  favour  of  the  supposition  that  Lucian 
drew  from  Lucius,  or  a  prior  source,  and  Apuleius  from  Lucian.  (See 
further,  art.  Apuleius,  p.  107.) 

-  He  was  born  of  Syrian  pai'ents.  In  his  j^outh  he  w^as  placed  under 
the  care  of  a  learned  Babylonian,  who  instructed  him  in  the  manners 
and  customs  of  his  country,  and  particularly  in  its  language,  which  by 
this  time  must  have  been  somewhat  simplified.  His  Babylonish  pre- 
ceptor, however,  was  taken  prisoner,  and  sold  as  a  slave  at  the  time  of 
Trajan's  Syrian  conquest.  After  this  lamblichus  applied  himself  chiefly 
to  Greek  literature,  but  he  informs  us  that  he  did  not  forget  his  magic, 
for,  when  Antoninus  sent  his  colleague  Yerus  against  Vologesus,  king 


CH.  I.]  lAMBLICHUS — bABTLONICA.  17 

in  this  species  of  composition,  during  the  i)eriod  which  had 
elapsed  since  the  production  of  the  Dinias  and  Dereyllis  of 
Dioi^^enes, 

Garmus,  king  of  Bal)vlon,  having  fallen  in  love  with 
Sinonis,  but  not  being  agreeable  to  the  object  of  his  affec- 
tions, the  lady  escapes  from  his  power  along  with  her  lover 
Rhodanes.  The  probability  of  this  event  having  been 
anticijxited,  Damas  and  Saca,  two  eunuchs  who  had  been 
appointed  to  watch  them,  (after  having  their  nose  and  ears 
cut  off,  for  their  negligence  in  allowing  their  flight,)  are 
sent  out  by  the  king  to  re-commit  them  [c.  2].  The  ro- 
mance principally  consists  of  the  adventures  of  the  fugi- 
tives, and  their  hair-breadth  escapes  from  these  royal 
messengers.  We  are  told  that  the  lovers  first  sought 
refuge  with  certain  shepherds  in  a  meadow,  but  a  demon, 
or  spectre,  which  haunted  that  Cjuarter  in  the  shape  of  a 
goat,  (rpdyov  n  (pdafia,)  having  become  enamoured  of 
Sinonis,  she  is  compelled  to  leave  this  shelter,  in  order  to 
avoid  his  fantastic  addresses.  It  is  then  related  how 
Sinonis  and  Rhodanes  conceal  themselves  in  a  cavern,  in 
which  they  are  beleaguered  by  Damas  ;  but  the  eunuch  and 
his  forces  are  routed  by  a  swarm  of  poisonous  bees.^     By 

of  the  Parthians  (a.d.  167),  he  predicted  the  progress  and  issue  of  that 
contest. 

Photius  has  given  a  pretty  full  account  of  the  Sinon  and  Rhodanes  of 
lamblichus,  in  his  Myriabiblia.  A  MS.  of  the  romance  was  (says  Huet) 
formerl}-  extant  in  the  library  of  the  Escurial,  which  was  burnt  in  1670. 
Another  copy  was  in  possession  of  Jungerman,  who  died  in  the  beginning 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  but  it  has  since  disappeared.  (See  Passow- 
Scriptores  Erotiei,  i.  p.  iii.)  Some  fragments  originally  transcribed  by 
Vossius,  from  the  Florentine  library,  were  published  fin  1641  by  Leo 
Allatius,  in  his  excerpts  from  the  Greek  Rhetoricians  (]Me'm.  de  I'Acad. 
des  Inscriptions,  vol.  xxxiv.  p.  57).  This  memoire,  by  Lebean,  has  been 
shown  by  Chardon  de  la  Rochette  (Melanges,  i.  p.  18)  to  contain  many 
errors,  and  the  fragments  not  to  belong  to  the  Babylonica. 

lamblichus.  the  author  of  this  romance,  must  not  be  confounded  with 
either  of  the  Platonic  philosophers  of  that  name,  both  of  whom  lived  in  the 
reign  of  the  Emperor  Julian,  and  were  great  favourites  of  the  Apostate. 

The  name  'lum^Xixoc,  says  ]\Iueller,  seems  to  be  an  Arabic  form,  and 
should  be  pronounced  with  the  penultima  long.  It  is  probably  the 
same  as  yam  (Tj'i?'^'),  (in  1  Chron.  iv.  34).  There  is  no  reason  for 
identifying  it  with  lambnlus. 

^  This  incident,  as  well  as  the  subsequent  one  of  the  dog  (p.  19),  are 
closely  imitated  in  Marino's  '' Adone,"  c.  14. — Lieb. 
I.  C 


18  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

tliis  intervention  the  lovers   escape   from    tlie   cave,   but 
having  partaken  of  the  honey  of  their  deliverers,  which 
was    of  a  noxions    quality,  they  faint    on   the   way,    and 
during  this  swoon  are  passed  as  dead  by  the  troops  of 
Damas.     Having  at  length  recovered,  they  proceed  in  their 
flight   [c.  4],  and  take  up  their  abode  with  a  man  who 
poisons  his  brother,  and  afterwards  accuses  them  of  the 
murder ;  a  charge  from  which  they  are  freed  by  the  accuser 
laying  violent  hands  on  himself.     With  singular  luck  in 
meeting  good  company,  they  next  quarter  themselves  with 
a  robber.    During  their  stay  his  habitation  is  burned  by  the 
troops  of  Damas,  but  the  lovers  escape  from  the  eunuch, 
by   alleging  that  they   are  the    spectres   of  those   whom 
the  robber  had  murdered  in  his  house.     Further  prose- 
cuting their  flight  they  meet  with  the  funeral  of  a  young 
girl  [c.  5],  who  is  discovered,  when  on  the  point  of  inter- 
ment, to  be  yet  alive.     The  sepulchre  being  left  vacant, 
Sinonis  and  E-hodanes  sleep  in  it  during  that  night,  and 
are  again  passed  as  corpses  by  their  Babylonian  pursuers 
[c.    6]  ;    but   Sinonis    having  made  free   with   the   dead 
clothes,^  is  taken  up  while  attempting  to  dispose  of  them, 
by  Sorsechus,  the  magistrate  of  the  district,  who  announces 
his  intention  of  forwarding  his  jn'isoner  to  Babylon.     In 
one  of  the  respectable  dwellings  which  they  had  visited  in 
their  flight,  our  lover's  had  enjoyed  an  opportunity  of  pro- 
viding themselves  with  poison,  for  an  emergency  of  this 
description.     Their   design,  however,  being  suspected  by 
their  guards,  a  soporific  draught  is  substituted,  of  which 
our  hero  and  heroine  partake,  and  awaken  to  their  great 
surprise,  from  the  trance  into  which  it  had  thrown  them, 
when  in  the  vicinity  of  Babylon.     Sinonis  in  despair  stabs 
herself,  but  not  mortally ;  and  the  compassion  of  Soraechus 
being  now  excited,  he  consents  to  the  escape  of  his  captives 
[c.  7],  who  experience  a  new  series  of  adventures,  rivalling 
in  probability  those  which  have  been  related.     They  first 
come  to  a  temple  of  Venus,  situated  in  an  island  of  the 
Euphrates,  where  the  wound  of  Sinonis  is  cured  [c.  11]. 
Thence  they  seek  refuge  with  a  cottager,  whose  daughter 
being  employed  to  dispose  of  some  trinkets  belonging  to 

1  Which,  according  to  custom,  should  have  been  burnt.— Gronovius, 
Thes.  Grffic.  Antiq.    J.  Potteri  Archseol.  Grfeca.  Lib.  iv.  c.  3. 


CH.  I.]  lAMBLICHUS BABYLONICA.  19 

Sinonis,  is  mistaken  for  our  heroine,  and  Gannns  is  forth- 
with ai^]>risecl  that  sht^  had  been  seen  in  the  neighbour- 
liood.  The  cottage  girl,  who  had  remarked  the  suspicions 
of  tlie  purchasers,  flees  with  all  possible  dispatch.  On  her 
way  home  she  enters  a  house,  where  she  witnesses  the 
horrible  spectacle  of  a  lover  laying  violent  hands  on  himself, 
after  murdering  his  mistress  ;  and,  sprinkled  with  the  blood 
of  these  unfortunate  victims,  she  returns  to  her  paternal 
mansion.  Sinonis,  perceiving  from  the  report  of  this  girl, 
that  she  could  no  longer  remain  with  safety  in  her  present 
habitation,  prepares  for  departure  [c.  13].  Ehodanes, 
before  setting  out  with  his  mistress,  salutes  the  peasant 
girl ;  but  Sinonis  perceiving  blood  on  his  lips,  and  being 
aware  whence  it  had  come,  is  seized  with  transports  of  un- 
governable jealousy  ;  she  is  with  difficulty  prevented  from 
stabbing  her  imaginary  rival  [c.  14],  and  flies  to  the  house 
of  Setapo,  a  wealthy  but  profligate  Babylonian.  Setapo 
immediately  pays  his  addresses  ;  Sinonis  feigns  to  yield  to 
his  solicitations,  but  contrives  to  intoxicate  him  in  the 
course  of  the  evening,  and  murders  him  during  the  night. 
Having  escaped  at  daybreak,  she  is  pursued  by  the  slaves 
of  Setapo,  and  committed  to  custody,  in  order  to  answer 
for  the  crime  [c.  15].  By  this  time,  however,  the  false  in- 
telligence that  Sinonis  was  discovered,  had  reached  the 
king  of  Babylon,  who  signalizes  the  joyful  news  by  a, 
general  gaol  delivery  throughout  his  dominions,  in  the 
benefit  of  which  the  real  Sinonis  is  of  course  included 
[c.  16].  While  our  heroine  was  experiencing  such  vicissi- 
tudes of  fortune,  Hyrcanus  the  dog  of  Ehodanes  (for  he  too 
has  his  adventures,)  scents  out  the  place,  where,  it  will  be 
recollected,  a  lover  had  murdered  his  mistress.  The  father 
of  Sinonis  arrives  at  this  spot  while  the  animal  is  employed 
in  devouring  the  remains  of  this  unfortunate  woman,  and 
mistaking  the  dead  body  for  that  of  his  daughter,  he  gives 
it  interment,  and  erects  over  it  a  monument,  with  the  in- 
scription, "Here  lies  the  beautiful  Sinonis." — Ehodanes 
visiting  this  place  a  short  while  afterwards,  and  perceiving 
the  inscription,  adds  to  it,  "  and  also  the  beautiful  Eho- 
danes," (jccil  'Focavi]g  b  KaXo'c)  but  is  prevented  from 
accomplishing  his  intention  of  stabbing  himself  by  the 
approach  of  the  peasant  girl,  who  had  been  the  cause  of 


20  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

tlie  jealousy  of  Sinonis,  and  wlio  informs  liim  tliat  it  was 
another  than  his  mistress  who  had  perished  there  [c.  18]. 
At  this  time  the  unfortunate  detention  and  threatened 
punishment  of  Soraechus,  by  whom  the  lovers  had  origi- 
nally been  allowed  to  escape,  enables  the  Babylonian 
ofiicers  to  trace  the  flight  of  Ehodanes.  He  is  in  conse- 
quence delivered  up  to  G-armus  [c.  20],  and  is  sj^eedily 
nailed  to  the  cross  by  that  monarch.  While  he  is  in  this 
crisis,  and  while  Garmus  is  dancing  and  carousing  round 
the  j^lace  of  execution,  a  messenger  arrives  with  intelli- 
gence that  Sinonis  is  about  to  be  espoused  by  the  king  of 
Syria,  into  whose  dominions  she  had  ultimately  escaped. 
Rhodanes  is  taken  down  from  the  cross,  and  appointed 
general  of  a  Babylonish  army,  which  is  sent  against  that 
monarch.  This  is  a  striking  but  deceitful  change  of  for- 
tune, as  the  inferior  oflScers  are  ordered  by  G-armus  to  kill 
Ehodanes,  should  he  obtain  the  victory,  and  to  bring 
Sinonis  alive  to  Babylon.  The  king  of  Syria  is  totally 
defeated,  and  Ehodanes  recovers  Sinonis ;  but  instead  of 
being  slain  by  the  officers  of  his  army,  he  is  chosen  king 
of  the  Babylonians.  All  this  indeed  had  been  clearly 
foreshown  by  the  portent  of  the  swallow,  which  was  seen 
by  Garmus,  pursued  by  an  eagle  and  a  kite,  and  after 
escaping  the  talons  of  the  former,  became  the  victim  of  an 
enemy  aj^j^arently  less  formidable  ! 

The  romance,  of  which  the  above  account  has  been  given, 
is  divided  into  sixteen  books.^  If  we  may  judge  of  the 
original  from   the  epitome,  transmitted  by  Photius,  the 

^  Photii  Bibliotheca,  cod.  94  ;  but  according  to  Suidas  (sub  voce 
'idfijSXixoQ)  are  comprised  thirty -nine  books.  The  story  itself  was  de- 
rived from  an  eastern  book,  as  lamblichus  himself  states.  Chassang, 
Etude  sur  les  Romans  Grecs,  p.  xxviii.;  Rohde,Der  Griech.  Eom.p.  364. 
Extensive  use  has  been  made  of  this  romance,  as  may  be  seen  fi'om  the 
abstract  of  Photius  in  P.  Von  Zesen's  translation  (Amsterdam,  1646)  of 
Mdlle.  de  Scudery's  "  Sophonisbe  "  (Afrikanische  S.),  where  Cleoraedes 
and  Sophonisbe,  wrongly  accused  of  murder,  pass  the  night  in  a  sepul- 
chre (see  1,001  Nacht.,  N.  247,  V.  204,  d.  Bresl.  Uebers) ;  they  resolve 
to  drink  poison,  for  which  is,  however,  substituted  a  sleeping  potion  (cf. 
Romeo  and  Juliet  5  see  pp.  61,  62,  Habrocomas  and  Anthia,  infra),  and 
Merlin  and  Vivian  are  set  free  in  a  general  jail  delivery.  Sophonisbe 
is  bewailed  as  dead,  in  consequence  of  her  name  being  inscribed  on  a 
tomb.  See  Cholevius  (L.)  deut.  Rom.  17ten  Jahrh.  jp.  6,  and  Rohde. 
Gr.  Rom.,  p.  377. 


CH.  I.]  lAMBLICHUS BABYLONICA.  21 

groimd-work  of  the  story  was  well  conceived,  since  the 
close  and  eager  pursuit  by  the  eunuchs  gives  rise  to  narrow 
escapes,  which  might  have  been  rendered  interesting.  But 
the  jnirticular  adventures  are  unnatural  and  monotonous. 
The  hero  and  heroine  generally  evade  the  search  of  their 
inirsuers  by  passing  as  defuncts,  or  spirits,  which  pro- 
duces a  disagreeable  sameness  in  a  subject  which  admitted 
of  much  variety.  There  is,  besides,  an  unpleasant  ferocity 
in  the  character  of  Sinonis,  and  too  many  of  the  scenes  are 
laid  among  tombs  and  caverns,  and  the  haunts  of  murderers. 
Indeed  most  of  the  incidents,  though  often  abundantly 
ludicrous,  are  of  a  dark  and  gloomy  cast ;  a  character 
which  by  no  means  appertains  to  the  adventures  in  the 
subsequent  romances  of  Heliodorus,  Chariton,  or  Tatius. 

Besides  these  faults  in  the  principal  story,  the  episodes 
of  Berenice,  queen  of  Egypt  [c.  17],  and  of  the  Temple  of 
Venus,  situated  on  an  island  formed  by  the  confluence  of 
the  Euphrates  and  Tigris,  seem  to  have  been  extremely 
tedious  and  ill  placed.  Part  of  the  last  ej^isode,  however, 
is  curious,  as  presenting  us  with  a  discussion  resembling 
the  Tensons,  or  pleas  for  the  courts  of  love,  in  the  middle 
ages.  Mesopotamia,  the  youngest  daughter  of  the  priestess 
of  Venus,  had  three  lovers,  on  one  of  whom  she  bestowed 
a  goblet  from  which  she  usually  drank  ;  on  the  head  of  the 
second  she  placed  a  chaplet  of  flowers  which  had  encircled 
her  brow,  while  the  third  received  a  kiss.  The  lovers 
contend  which  had  obtained  the  most  distinguished  mark 
of  favour,  and  plead  their  cause  in  presence  of  Borochus,  a 
distinguished  amatory  judge,  who  decides  in  favour  of  the 
kiss  [c.  8]. 

lamblichus  has  been  censured  by  Huet,^  for  the  awkward 
introduction  of  his  episodes,  and  the  inartistic  disposition 
of  the  whole  work.  He  seems,  according  to  that  author, 
to  have  entertained  a  complete  contempt  for  the  advice  of 
Horace,  "svith  regard  to  hurrying  his  readers  into  the  middle 
of  the  action — in  medias  res  rapere ; — he  never  departs 
from  the  order  of  time,  and  trudges  on  according  to  the 
era  of  dates,  with  all  the  exactness  of  a  chronologer. 

About  two  centuries  elapsed  from  the  death  of  lamb- 

^  Lettre  de  M.  Hnet  .  .  .  I)e  TOrigine  des  Romans,  Paris,  1678, 
p.  51. 


22  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

liclius,  till  tlie  composition  of  the  Tlieagenes  and  Cliariclea 
of  Heliodorus/  Bishop  of  Tricca,  an  author  who  in  every 

^  Of  the  author  of  the  -^thiopica  nothing  whatever  is  certainly  known. 
There  were  numerous  writers  called  Heliodorus  (see  Fabricius  B,  Gr. 
viii.  126,  127,  and  jNIeineke,  Anal.  Alex.,  p.  384),  and  the  name  is  not 
sufficient  warranty  for  identifying  him  absolutely  with  the  Bishop  of 
Tricca,  as  has  hitherto  usually  been  done  from  a  passage  in  a  writer 
of  the  fifth  century,  Socrates  (v.  22,  p.  640  of  INIigne's  Edition). 
Socrates  speaks  of  "  a  prelate  who  introduced  into  his  see  the  celibacy 
of  the  clergy,  and  who  is  reputed  to  be  the  author  of  a  love-story, 
written  in  his  youth,  and  entitled  -^thiopica"' (of'  7rov///i«ra  ipwriKct 
da'iri  vvv  TT^pKpkpiTctL  u  1'soc  wi'  (Tvi'tTcc^aTO  AiOioTTi,  etc.).  On  the  other 
hand,  I  cannot  agree  with  Eohde  in  absolutely  rejecting  the  belief 
which  is  I'ecorded  by  Socrates,  chiefly  on  the  ground  of  the  internal 
evidence  afforded  by  the  work  of  its  author's  polytheistic  and  neo-Pytha- 
gorean  ideas,  the  employment  of  demons  in  the  old  Greek  sense,  the 
supremacy  given  to  Apollo,  etc.,  features  which  reflect  the  cardinal 
tenets  of  Apollonius  of  Tyana.  Nor  is  the  recognition  of  malicious 
spirits  and  of  witchcraft,  as  it  seems  to  me,  any  argument  against  the 
Christianity  of  the  author.  Pagan  deities  were  very  generall}^  treated 
as  devils  by  the  early  Christians,  and  the  Greek  canons  impress  one 
vividly  with  the  reality  of  the  belief  in  sorcerj'.  There  is  nothing  im- 
possible in  a  subsequent  conversion  of  Heliodorus.  Notwithstanding 
this  decided,  but  insufficiently  grounded,  view  of  Rohde's,  his  is  by  far 
the  most  careful  and  interesting  criticism  of  the  ^thiopica  which  I  have 
read.  In  particular  his  remarks  upon  the  Gymnosophists,  w^ho  in  the 
romance  appear  as  tyjies  of  piety  and  godly  wisdom,  and  whom  Helio- 
dorus must  have  derived  from  Apollonius,  deserve  attention.  "  The 
Greeks  could  only  be  prompted  to  seek  a  special  code  of  wisdom  among 
the  Ethiopians  in  consequence  of  the  frequent  custom  of  attributing 
Indian  traditions  to  Ethiopians.  "While,  for  the  most  part,  but  a  few 
brief  and  vague  passages  mention  the  'Philosophy'  of  the  Ethiopians, 
Apollonius  alone  seems  to  have  ascribed  the  Indian  Gymnosophists,  .so 
well  known  from  the  accounts  of  Onesicritus,  and  popularized  by  their 
early  incorporation  into  the  Alexander  romance,  to  the  Ethiopian  soil, 
and  boldly  spoken  of  these  Ethiopian  sages,  as  if  from  his  own  know- 
ledge. I  do  not  think  I  am  mistaken  in  supposing  that  Heliodor, 
following  his  model,  located  in  his  land  of  sun  that  band  of  need- 
nothing  sages  who,  as  prophets,  as  Brahman-like,  independent  coun- 
selloi's  of  the  king,  liAe  only  for  what  is  good  and  noble.  We  should 
not  be  surprised  to  find  the  characteristics  of  the  Indians  blended  with 
those  of  Apollonius's  Ethiopian  Gymnosophists,  the  less  so  that  for 
Heliodorus,  with  his  Greek  notions,  there  would  be  no  essential 
difference  between  Indians  and  Ethiopians  ;  they  would  be  to  him 
merely  '  eastern  and  western  Ethiopians,'  governed  by  one  king  at 
Meroe.  Even  as  Apollonius,  the  sun- worshipper,  travels  to  the  '  home 
of  Helios  and  the  Indians '  to  drink  of  the  higher  lore  of  those  who 
dwell  nearer  to  Helios,  the  fount  of  Life  and  of  AVisdom,  so  Heliodorus 
lets  his  chosen  couple,  under  the  guidance  of  Helios-Apollo  himself,  at 


CH.  I.]      HELIODORUS — THEAGENES    AND    CHARICLEA.  23 

partiL-uhir,  but  especially  in  the  arrangement  of  his  fable, 
far  excelled  his  predecessors. 

There  are  three  points  chiefly  to  be  considered  in  a  novel 
or  romance,  the  Subject,  the  Disjjosition,  and  the  Orna- 
ments ;  a  classification  which  may  be  regarded  as  compre- 
hending the  means  of  estimating  the  most  material  beauties 
and  defects  of  any  fictitious  narrative. 

In  adopting  these  principles  of  criticism,  I  do  not  mean 
to  aflirm  that  a  good  work  can  be  written  by  rule,  or  that 
a  romance  is  excellent  merely  in  j^roportion  to  its  con- 
formity to  certain  critical  precepts.  Nothing,  for  instance, 
can  be  more  irregular  than  Tristram  Shandy,  and  nothing 
can  be  more  regular  than  some  of  the  novels  of  Cumber- 
land ;  yet  no  one  prefers  the  novels  of  Cumberland  to  the 

last  reach  the  sunny  land  of  the  wise  Ethiopians  as  the  worthiest  goal 
of  life's  long  arduous  journey." — Kohde,  Griech.  Eom.,  p.  440,  etc. 

A  writer  of  the  fourteenth  century,  Nicephorus  Callistus  (Hist.  Eceles. 
ii.  '296),  relates  that  a  synod  having  given  Heliodorus,  the  Bishop  of 
Tricca.  the  choice  either  to  burn  his  I'omance  or  renounce  his  bishopric, 
the  prelate  preferred  the  latter  alternative.  In  favour  of  the  bishop's 
authorship  of  the  work,  the  superior  morality  of  the  book  compared 
with  other  Greek  fiction  has  been  adduced.  Koraes,  who  edited  the 
work  in  1804,  professes  to  see  Christian  influence  in  numerous  passages. 
The  earliest  Greek  impression  of  the  Ethiopics  was  edited  at  Basle  in 
1535,  in  4to.,  by  Vincent  (Jbsopoens,  who  purchased  the  MS.  from  a 
soldier  who  had  pillaged  the  library  of  Matthias  Corvinus  at  Buda. 
This  edition  was  followed  by  that  of  Commelinus,  1596,  8vo.,  and  of 
Bourdelotius,  printed  at  Paris  in  1619.  The  last  and  best  Greek  edition 
is  that  of  Koraes,  Paris,  1804,  2  vols.,  Svo.  Soon  after  the  Romance 
was  first  published  in  Greek,  it  appeared  in  almost  all  the  modern  lan- 
guages of  Europe.  The  whole  work  was  turned  into  English  prose  by 
Thomas  Underdown,  and  printed  1577  :  part  of  it  was  also  versified  in 
English  hexameters,  by  Abraham  Eraunce,  and  published  in  this  form, 
1591,  Svo.  There  have  been  at  least  four  French  translations,  the 
earliest  of  which  was  by  Amyot,  whose  version  is  said  to  have  so 
pleased  Francis  I.,  that  he  presented  him  to  the  abbacy  of  Bellozane. 
Strange,  that  ecclesiastical  preferment  should  have  been  obtained  b}"  the 
translation  of  a  work,  of  which  the  original  composition  is  said  to  have 
cost  its  author  deposition  from  a  bishopric  I 

Theagenes  and  Chariclea  soon  became  a  favourite  work  in  France. 
We  are  told  in  particular,  that  the  preceptor  of  a  monastery,  at  which 
Kacine  was  educated,  having  found  his  pupil  engaged  in  its  perusal, 
took  the  book  from  him.  The  young  poet,  having  procured  another 
copy,  was  again  detected  at  the  same  employment  by  his  pedagogue, 
whom  he  now  told  that  he  was  welcome  to  burn  it,  as  he  had  got  the 
whole  by  heart. 


24  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

work  of  Sterne.  A  man  of  genius  will  produce  an  interest- 
ing composition  in  defiance  of  the  laws  of  criticism,  while 
one  without  talent  will  compose  a  work  by  rule,  as  a  stone- 
cutter may  hew  out  a  statue  according  to  the  most  ap- 
proved proj^ortions,  which  will  be  totally  lifeless  and 
insignificant.  But  though  the  province  of  criticism  is  not 
to  confine  genius  to  one  narrow  and  trodden  path,  it  does 
not  follow  that  critical  rules  are  to  be  altogether  dis- 
regarded. The  work  of  the  man  of  genius  would  have 
been  still  better  had  he  not  wantonly  transgressed  them, 
and  even  the  labour  produced  by  the  person  of  inferior 
talents,  would  have  been  worse  had  he  not  rigidly  adhered 
to  them.  In  estimating  all  the  productions  of  the  fine 
arts,  we  are  obliged  to  analyze  them,  and  to  describe  them 
by  their  grosser  parts,  as  the  etherial  portion,  or  that  which 
pervades  the  heart  and  feelings,  cannot  be  represented. 
We  jiidge  of  the  paintings  of  Raphael,  and  criticise  them 
under  the  heads  of  design  and  invention  and  colouring; 
but  we  can  no  more  express  the  emotions  they  produce, 
than  we  can  paint  the  odours  of  the  rose,  though  we 
delineate  its  form  and  portray  its  colours. 
The  story,  or  subject,  of 

Theagenes  and  Chariclea,^ 

does  not  possess   any  peculiar  excellence,  as  will  Si'p'pea.Y 
from  the  following  summary. 

The  action  of  the  romance  is  supj^osed  to  take  place 
previous  to  the  age  of  Alexander  the  G-reat,  while  Egypt 
was  tributary  to  the  Persian  monarch  s.  During  that 
period  a  queen  of  Ethiopia,  called  Persina,  having  viewed 
at  an  amorous  crisis  a  statue  of  Andromeda,  gives  birth  to 
a  daughter  of  fair  complexion."  Fearing  that  her  husband 
might  not  think  the  cause  proportioned  to  the  effect,  she 
commits  the  infant  in  charge  to  Sisimithrus,  an  Ethiopian 
senator,  and  chief  of  the  G-ymnosophists,  and  deposits  in 
his  hands  a  ring  and  some  writings,  explaining  the  circum- 
stances of  her  birth  [bk.  iv.,  c.  8;  bk.  ii.,  c.  31].  The 
child  is  named  Chariclea,  and  remains  for  seven  years  with 

^  AlOiiOTriKiov  f3ij3Xia  CfKa. 

2  Cf.  the  similar  incident  in  Tasso's  Gerus.  Lib.  XII.  23,  etc. 


CH.   I.]      HELIODORUS THEAGEXES    AND    CHARICLEA.  25 

lier  reputed  father.  At  the  end  of  this  period  he  becomes 
doubtful  of  her  power  to  preserve  her  chastity  any  longer 
in  her  native  country.  He  therefore  determines  to  carry 
her  alonp:  with  him,  on  an  embassy  to  which  he  had  been 
appointed  to  Oroondates,  satrap  of  Egypt  [ii.  31].  In 
that  land  he  accidently  meets  Charicles,  priest  of  Delphos, 
who  was  travelling  on  account  of  domestic  afflictions,  and 
to  him  he  transfers  the  care  of  Chariclea.  Charicles  brings 
her  to  Delphos,  and  destines  her  for  the  wife  of  his  nephew 
Alcamenus.  In  order  to  reconcile  her  mind  to  this  alliance, 
he  delivers  her  over  to  Calasiris,  an  Egyptian  priest  [ii.  26], 
who  at  that  j^eriod  resided  at  Delphos,  and  undertook  to 
prepossess  her  in  favour  of  the  young  man.  About  the 
same  time,  Theagenes,  a  Thessalian,  and  descendant  of 
Achilles,  comes  to  Delphos,  for  the  ^performance  of  some 
sacred  rite  [ii.  34]  :  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  having  seen 
each  other  in  the  temple,  become  mutually  enamoured 
[iii.  5].  The  contrivance  of  this  incident  seems  to  be 
borrowed  from  the  Hero  and  Leander  of  Musseus,  where 
the  lovers  meet  in  the  fane  of  Venus  at  Sestos.^  Places  of 
worship,  however,  were  in  those  days  the  usual  scene  of 
the  first  interview  of  lovers,  as  women  were  at  other  times 
much  confined  and  almost  inaccessible  to  admirers.  There 
too,  even  in  a  later  period,  the  most  romantic  attachments 
wer^?  formed.  It  was  in  the  chapel  of  St.  Clair,  at  Avignon, 
that  Petrarch  first  beheld  Laura;  and  Boccaccio  became 
enchanted  with  Mary  of  Arragon  in  the  church  of  the 
Cordeliers,  at  Naples. 

Calasiris,  who  had  been  engaged  to  influence  the  mind 
of  Chariclea  in  favour  of  her  intended  husband,  is  warned 
in  a  vision  by  Apollo  that  he  should  return  to  his  own 
country,  and  take  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  along  with 
him  [iii.  12].  Henceforth  his  whole  attention  is  directed 
to  deceive  Charicles,  and  effect  his  escape  from  Delphos. 
Having  met  with  some  Phoenician  merchants  [iv.  16],  and 
having  informed  the  lovers  of  his  intention,  he  sets  sail 
along  with  them  for  Sicily,  to  which  country  the  Phoenician 
vessel  was  bound  [v.  1]  ;  but  soon  after,  passing  Zacynthus, 
the  ship  is  attacked  by  pirates  [v.  24],  who  carry  Calasiris 

^  This  can  hardly  have  been,  as  in  all  probability  Musjeus  lived  at  a 
later  date  than  Heliodorus. — Lies. 


26  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

and  those  under  his  protection  to  the  coast  of  Egypt  [v.  27]. 
On  the  banks  of  the  Nile,  Trachinus,  the  captain  of  the 
l^irates,  prepares  a  feast  to  solemnize  his  nuptials  with 
Chariclea  [v.  29],  but  Calasiris,  with  considerable  ingenuity, 
having  persuaded  Pelorus,  the  second  in  command,  that 
Chariclea  is  enamoured  of  him  [v.  30],  a  contest  naturally 
arises  between  him  and  Trachinus  during  the  feast,  and 
the  other  pirates,  espousing  different  sides  of  the  quarrel, 
are  all  slain  except  Pelorus,  who  is  attacked  and  put  to 
flight  by  Theagenes  [v.  32].  The  stratagem  of  Calasiris, 
however,  is  of  little  avail,  except  to  himself:  for  im- 
mediately after  the  contest,  while  Calasiris  is  sitting  on  a 
hill  at  some  distance,  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  are  seized 
by  a  band  of  Egyi3tian  robbers  [v.  33],  who  conduct  them 
to  an  establishment  formed  on  an  island  in  a  remote  lake. 
Thyamis,  the  captain  of  the  banditti,  becomes  enamoured 
of  Chariclea,  and  declares  an  intention  of  espousing  her 
[i.  19].  Chariclea  pretends  that  •  she  is  the  sister  of 
Theagenes,  in  order  that  the  jealousy  of  the  robber  may 
not  be  excited,  and  the  safety  of  her  lover  endangered. 
This  deception  is  practised  in  other  parts  of  the  romance, 
jDarticulariy  when  Arsace  becomes  enamoured  of  Theagenes 
at  Memphis.  The  incident  has  been  also  adoj^ted  in  many 
of  the  subsequent  G-reek  romances,  particularly  in  Ismene 
and  Ismenias,  who  declare  themselves  to  be  brother  and 
sister  when  they  meet  in  a  servile  condition  in  the  house 
of  Sostratus  [ix.  11].^  This  notion  was  perhaps  suggested 
to  the  author  of  Theagenes  and  Chariclea,  by  some  passages 
in  the  Old  Testament. — Heliodorus  was  a  bishop,  and 
though  he  did  not  arrive  at  that  dignity  till  after  the 
composition  of  his  romance,  he  must  have  found,  in  the 
course  of  liis  studies,  that  Sarah  and  Abram  jmssed,  and 
for  similar  reasons,  for  brother  and  sister  while  in  Egypt 
[1  Mos.  xii.  13,  XX.  2],  and  that  Isaac  and  Eebecca  im- 
posed on  the  people  of  G-erar  under  pretence  of  the  same 
relationship  [1  Mos.  xxvi.  7]. 

Chariclea,  however,  is  not  long  compelled  to  assume  the 
character  of  the  sister  of  Theagenes.  The  colony  is  speedily 
destroyed  by  the  forces  of  the  satrap  of  Egyj^t  [i.  27],  who 

^  See  infra,  p.  79  of  the  present  volume. 


CH.  I.]      HELIODORUS — THEAGENES    AND    CHARICLEA.  27 

was  excited  to  this  act  of  authority  by  a  comi)laint  from 
Nausicles,  a  Greek  merchant,  that  the  banditti  liad  carried 
oif  his  mistress.  Thyamis,  the  captain  of  the  robbers, 
escapes  by  flii^ht,  and  Cuemon,  a  young  Athenian,  who  had 
l»een  detained  in  the  colony,  and  with  whom  Theagenes 
had  formed  a  friendship  during  his  confinement,  sets  out 
in  quest  of  him.  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  depart  soon 
after  on  their  way  to  a  certain  village,  where  they  had 
agreed  to  meet  Cnemou  [ii.  18],  but  are  intercepted  on  the 
road  by  the  satrap's  forces  [v.  7].  Theagenes  is  sent  as  a 
present  to  the  king  of  Persia  ;  and  Chariclea  being  falsely 
claimed  by  Nausicles  as  his  mistress,  is  conducted  to  his 
house.  Here  Calasiris  had  accidentally  fixed  his  abode 
[ii.  21,  V.  33],  since  his  separation  from  Theagenes  and 
Chariclea ;  and  was  also  doing  the  honours  of  the  house 
to  Cnemon  in  the  landlord's  absence  [ii.  22].  Chariclea 
being  recognized  by  Calasiris,  Nausicles  abandons  the 
claim  to  her  which  he  had  advanced  [v.  11,  12],  and  sets 
sail  with  Cnemon  for  G-reece  [vi.  8],  while  Calasiris  and 
Chariclea  jiroceed  in  search  of  Theagenes.  On  arriving  at 
Memphis,  they  find  that,  with  his  usual  good  luck,  he  had 
again  fallen  into  the  power  of  Thyamis,  and  was  besieging 
that  capital  [vii.  1]  along  with  the  robber.  A  treaty  of 
peace,  however,  is  sj^eedily  concluded.  Thyamis  is  dis- 
covered to  be  the  son  of  Calasiris,  and  is  elected  high-priest 
of  Mempliis.  Arsace,  who  commanded  in  that  city,  in  the 
absence  of  her  husband,  falls  in  love  with  Theagenes ;  but, 
as  he  perseveres  in  resisting  all  her  advances,  and  in  main- 
taining his  fidelity  to  Chariclea,  she  orders  him  to  be  put 
to  the  torture :  she  also  commands  her  nurse,  who  was  the 
usual  confidante  of  her  amours,  and  instrument  of  her 
cruelty,  to  poison  Chariclea ;  but  the  cup-bearer  having 
given  her  the  goblet  intended  for  Chariclea,  she  expires 
in  convulsions  [viii.  7,  8].  This,  however,  serves  as  a  pre- 
text to  condemn  Chariclea  as  a  poisoner,  and  she  is  accor- 
dingly appointed  to  be  burnt.  After  she  had  ascended  the 
pile,  and  the  fire  had  been  lighted,  she  is  saved  for  that 
day  by  the  miraculous  effects  of  the  stone  Pantarbe,  which 
she  wore  on  her  finger,^  and  which  warded  oft'  the  flames 

^  See  note  to  Ilabroconias  and  Antliia,  p.  62. 


28  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

from  lier  person  [viii.  9,  11].  During  the  ensuing  night  a 
messenger  arrives  from  Oroondates,  the  husband  of  Arsace, 
who  was  at  that  time  carrying  on  a  war  against  the  Ethio- 
pians [vii.  29] :  he  had  been  informed  of  the  misconduct 
of  his  wife,  and  had  despatched  one  of  his  officers  to  Mem- 
phis, with  orders  to  bring  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  to  his 
camp.  Arsace  hangs  herself;  but  the  lovers  are  taken 
prisoners,  on  their  way  to  Oroondates,  by  the  scouts  of  the 
Ethiopian  army,  and  are  conducted  to  Hydaspes,  who  was 
at  that  time  besieging  Oroondates  in  Syene  [ix.  1].  This 
city  having  been  taken,  and  Oroondates  vanquished  in  a 
great  battle,  Hydaspes  returns  to  his  capital,  Meroe,  where, 
by  advice  of  his  Gymnosophists,  he  proposes  to  sacrifice 
Theagenes  and  Chariclea  to  the  sun  and  moon,  the  deities 
of  Ethiopia  [x.  6].  As  virgins  were  alone  entitled  to  the 
privilege  of  being  accej^ted  as  victims,  Chariclea  is  sub- 
jected to  a  trial  of  chastity,  an  unfortunate  precedent  for 
novelists,  as  we  shall  afterwards  find.  Theagenes,  while 
on  the  very  brink  of  sacrifice,  j^ei'forms  many  feats  of 
strength  and  dexterity.  A  bull,  which  was  his  companion 
in  misfortune,  having  broken  from  the  altar,  Theagenes 
follows  him  on  horseback,  subdues  him,  and  returns  on  his 
back.^  At  length,  when  the  two  lovers  are  about  to  be 
immolated,  Chariclea,  by  means  of  the  ring  and  fillet  which 
had  been  attached  to  her  at  her  birth,  and  had  been  care- 
fully preserved,  is  discovered  to  be  the  daughter  of  Hy- 
daspes, which  is  farther  confirmed  by  the  testimony  of 
Sisimithres,  once  her  reputed  father  ;  and  by  the  oppor- 
tune arrival  of  Charicles,  priest  of  Delphos,  who  was 
wandering  through  the  world  in  search  of  Chariclea.  After 
some  demur  on  the  part  of  the  Gymnosophists,  Chariclea 
obtains  her  own  release  and  that  of  Theagenes,  is  united 
to  him  in  marriage,  and  acknowledged  as  heiress  of  the 
Ethiopian  empire. 

Such  is  the  abstract  of  the  story  of  Theagenes  and 
Chariclea.  Now  the  chief  excellencies  of  the  story,  or 
nucla  materia  of  a  romance,  are  Novelty,  Probability,  and 

^  This  exercise,  called  TavpoKa9a\pia,  Avas  intpnded  to  inure  youth 
to  martial  fatigue,  and  was  much  practised  in  Thessaly,  the  country  of 
Theagenes,  whence  it  was  afterwards  introduced  at  Rome. 


CH.  I.]      HELIODORUS — THEAGENES    AND    CHARICLEA.  29 

Variety  of  lucident  ;  iu  each  of  which  views  it  may  he 
|>roper  to  examine  this  fictitious  narrative. 

Of  the  claims  of  Hehodorus  to  originality  of  invention 
we  are  incompetent  judges,  as  the  romances  that  pre- 
ceded Theagenes  and  Chariclea  have  for  the  most  part 
perished.  Many  of  the  adventures,  however,  are  probably 
taken  from  Diogenes  and  lamblichus  ;  and  it  is  even  sus- 
pected that  the  leading  events  in  the  story  have  been 
founded  on  a  tragedy  of  Sophocles,  called  the  Captives 
(Ai\lda\(x)Toi),  not  now  extant.^  A  few  of  the  incidents 
seem  also  to  have  been  borrowed  from  the  sacred  writings. 
The  stratagem  of  Sarah  and  Abraham  has  been  already 
mentioned.  From  the  frequent  perusal  of  the  Scrij^tures, 
the  bishop  may  have  acquired  his  fondness  for  visions ; 
and  the  powerful  effects  produced  by  the  statue  of  Andi'o- 
nieda  on  the  complexion  of  his  heroine,  would  not  appear 
impossible  to  one  who  knew  the  success  of  the  contrivance 
by  which  Jacob  obtained  so  large  a  portion  of  the  lambs 
of  Laban, 

As  to  i>robabiHty  of  incident,  Heliodorus  outrages  all 
verisimilitude  in  different  ways  ;  as,  for  examj^le,  by  the 
extraordinary  inteiTiews  which  he  brings  about,  and  the 
summary  manner  in  which  he  disposes  of  a  character  which 
has  become  supernumerary.  When  it  is  convenient  for 
him  that  two  persons  should  meet,  one  of  them  comes  to 
travel  in  a  country  where  apparently  he  had  nothing  to 
do  ;  and  when  a  character  becomes  suj^erfluous,  the  author 
finds  no  better  resource  than  informing  us  that  he  was  bit 
by  an  asp,  or  died  suddenly  in  the  night.  Unexpected 
events  no  doubt  enliven  a  narrative ;  but  if  they  greatly 
violate  the  order  and  course  of  nature,  that  belief  in  an 
ideal  presence,  which  is  essential  to  relish  or  interest,  is 
totally  overthrown  ;  and  the  credence  of  reality  being  once 
destroyed,  the  waking  dream  cannot  again  be  restored, 
nor  can  the  reader  conceive  even  the  probable  incidents  as 
passing  l^efore  him. 

In  the  romance  of  Heliodorus,  the  changes  of  Fortune 
also  are  too  frequent  and  too  much  of  the  same  nature,  as 

'  Bourdelotii  Heliodorus,  Animadvers.  p.  3. 


30  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  I, 

all  the  adventures  and  distresses  in  the  book  originate  in 
the  hero  or  heroine  falling  into  the  hands  of  robbers.  This, 
it  is  true,  gives  rise  to  many  romantic  incidents,  but  also 
produces  an  unvaried  and  tiresome  recurrence  of  similar 
misfortunes.  In  works  of  art,  we  wish  for  that  diversity 
exhibited  in  the  appearances  of  nature,  and  require  that 
every  step  should  bring  to  view  some  object,  or  some 
arrangement,  which  has  not  been  previously  presented. 

The  work  of  Heliodorus,  however,  has  received  consider- 
able embellishment  from  the  dispositio7i  of  the  fable,  and 
the  artful  manner  in  which  the  tale  is  disclosed.  The 
gradual  unfolding  of  the  story  of  Theagenes  and  Chariclea, 
the  suspense  in  which  the  mind  is  held,  and  the  subse- 
quent evolution  of  what  seemed  intricate,  is  praised  by 
Tasso,  who  greatly  admired,  and  was  much  indebted  to 
Heliodorus  :  "To  keep  the  hearer,"  he  says,  " passing  in 
suspense  from  involved  situation  to  distinct  issue,  from 
the  general  to  the  particular,  is  Virgil's  constant  art,  and 
one  of  the  resources  which  render  Heliodorus  so  attrac- 
tive." ^  Nor  are  the  incidents  arranged  in  the  chronolo- 
gical order  of  the  preceding  romances,  and  of  modern 
novels.  The  work  begins  in  the  middle  of  the  story,  in 
imitation  of  the  epic  jDoems  of  G-reece  and  Eome,  in  a, 
manner  the  most  romantic,  and  best  fitted  to  excite  curiosity. 
Commencing  immediately  after  the  contest  had  taken  place 
among  the  pirates,  near  the  mouth  of  the  Mle,for  the  posses- 
sion of  Chariclea,  it  represents  a  band  of  Egyptian  banditti, 
assembled  at  the  dawn  of  day  on  the  summit  of  a  promon- 
tory, and  looking  towards  the  sea.  A  vessel  loaded  with 
spoil  is  lying  at  anchor.  The  banks  of  the  Nile  are  covered 
with  dead  bodies,  and  the  fragments  of  a  feast.  As  the 
robbers  advance  to  seize  the  vessel,  a  young  lady  of  exqui- 
site beauty,  whose  appearance  is  charmingly  described,  and 
whom  we  afterwards  find  to  be  Chariclea,  is  represented 
sitting  on  a  rock,  while  a  young  man  lies  wounded  beside 
her.  The  narrative  proceeds  in  the  person  of  the  author, 
till  the  meeting  of  Cnemon  and  Calasiris  in  the  house  of 
Nausicles,  where  Calasiris  relates  the  early  history  of 
Chariclea,  the  rise  of  her  affection  for  Theagenes,  and  her 

^  Opere,  vol.  x.  p.  108.  ed.  Venezia. 


CH.  I.]      HELIODORUS — THEA<TENES    AND    CHARICLEA.  31 

captiiiv  l»y  the  pirates.  It  must,  however,  he  eonfesseJ, 
that  the  author  has  shown  Httle  judgment  in  making  one 
of  the  characters  in  the  romance  recount  the  adventures  of 
a  hero  and  a  heroine.  This  is  the  most  unusual  and  the 
worst  species  of  narration  that  can  be  adopted,  especially 
"wdiere  an  incipient  passion  is  to  be  painted.  The  hero  or 
heroine,  while  relating  their  story,  may  naturally  describe 
their  own  feelings  ;  and  an  author  is  supposed  to  possess 
the  privilege  of  seeing  into  the  hearts  of  his  characters  ; 
but  it  can  never  be  imagined  that  a  third  person  in  a  novel 
should  be  able  perceive  and  portray  all  the  sentiments  and 
emotions  of  the  principal  actors. 

But  the  defects  in  the  plan  of  the  work  do  not  end  with 
the  narrative  of  Calasiris.  After  the  author  has  resumed 
the  story,  he  destroys  our  interest  in  every  event  by  pre- 
viously informing  us  that  the  persons  concerned  had 
dreamed  it  was  to  take  place.  The  effect,  too,  of  one  of 
the  most  striking  situations  in  the  work  is  injured  by  a 
fault  in  disposition.  When  Chariclea  is  about  to  be  sacri- 
ficed in  Ethiopia,  we  feel  no  terror  for  her  fate,  nor  that 
unexpected  joy  at  her  deliverance,  so  much  extolled  by 
Huet ;  ^  as  we  know  she  is  the  daughter  of  Hydaspes,  and 
has  her  credentials  along  with  her.  This  knowledge,  it  is 
true,  increases  the  pleasure  that  arises  from  sympathy  with 
Hydaspes,  and  entering  into  his  emotions ;  but  the  interest 
of  the  romance  would  have  been  greater,  had  the  birth  of 
Chariclea  been  concealed  till  the  conclusion.  This  could 
have  been  done  with  slight  alterations,  and  would  have 
formed,  if  I  may  be  allowed  a  technical  word,  an  upayvu)- 
piaig,  not  only  to  the  characters  in  the  work,  but  also  to  the 
reader. 

Nor  can  the  disposition  of  the  episodes  be  much  com- 
mended. The  adventures  of  Cnemon,  which  seem  to  be 
taken  from  the  story  of  Hyppolitus,"  have  no  great  beauty 
or  interest  in  themselves ;  they  do  not  flow  naturally  from 

'  Sacrificii  horrori  inopina  succedit  laetitia,  ob  liberatam  periculo 
pnpsenti  puellam. — Huct,  de  Origine  Fabularum.  p.  37. 

-  Under  the  figures  of  I'etosiris  and  Thyamis  we  discern  Eteocles 
and  Polynice,  while  the  closing  situation  between  Hydaspes  and  Cha- 
riclea recalls  that  of  Agamemnon  preparing  to  sacrifice  Iphigenia. 
— Chassang,  Etude,  p.  xxxiii. 


32  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.   I. 

the  main  subject,  and  are  introduced  too  early.  The  only 
other  episode  of  much  length  is  the  account  of  the  siege  of 
Syene,  and  the  battle  between  Oroondates  and  Hydaspes, 
which  occupy  the  whole  of  the  ninth  book ;  and,  however 
well  described,  entirely  take  away  our  concern  in  the  fate 
of  Chariclea,  and  in  fact,  in  proportion  to  the  excellence  of 
the  description,  at  the  very  moment  when  the  story  is  ap- 
proaching to  a  crisis,  and  when  our  interest  would  have 
been  raised  the  highest,  had  our  impressions  remained  un- 
interrupted. 

Next  to  the  nature  of  the  subject,  and  the  arrangement 
of  the  incidents,  the  Oriiaments  of  a  romance  should  be 
chiefly  considered  ;  of  these  the  most  important  are  the 
Style,  the  Characters,  the  Sentiments,  and  the  Descrip- 
tions. 

The  Style  of  Heliodorus  has  been  blamed  as  too  figura- 
tive and  poetical ;  but  this  censure  seems  chiefly  applicable 
to  those  passages  where  he  has  interwoven  verses  of  the 
Greek  poets,  from  whom  he  has  frequently  borrowed.  All 
his  comparisons  are  said  to  be  taken  from  Homer ;  but 
Sophocles,  whom  he  often  imitates,  and  sometimes  copies, 
appears  to  have  been  his  favourite  author.  Yet,  consider- 
ing the  period  in  which  Heliodorus  lived,  his  style  is  re- 
markable for  its  elegance  and  perspicuity,  and  would  not 
have  disgraced  an  earlier  age.  "  His  diction,"  says  Photius,^ 
'*  is  such  as  becomes  the  subject ;  it  possesses  great  sweet- 
ness and  simplicity,  and  is  free  from  affectation  ;  the  words 
used  are  expressive,  and  if  sometimes  figurative,  as  might 
be  expected,  they  are  always  j^erspicuous,  and  such  as 
clearly  exhibit  the  object  of  which  the  delineation  is 
attempted.  The  periods  too  are  constructed  so  as  to  cor- 
respond with  the  variations  of  the  story;  they  have  an 
agreeable  alternation  of  length  and  shortness  ;  and,  finally, 
the  whole  composition  is  such  as  to  have  a  correspondence 
with  the  narration." 

In  the  painting  of  Character,  Heliodorus  is  extremely 
defective ;  Theagenes,  in  particular,  is  a  weak  and  insi2:)id 
personage.  The  author,  indeed,  possesses  a  wonderful  art 
of  introducing  those  who  are  destined  to  bear  a  part  in  the 

^   Cod.  Ixxiii.  p.  158. 


CH.  I.]      HELIODORUS — THEAGENES    AND    CHARICLEA.  33 

romance,  in  situations  calculated  to  excite  sympathy,  Lut 
as  we  become  acquainted  with  them  we  lose  all  concern  in 
their  fate  from  their  insij>idity.  In  fact,  Chariclea  is  the 
only  interesting,^  person  in  the  work.  She  is  represented  as 
endued  with  ij:reat  strength  of  mind,  united  to  a  delicacy 
of  feeling,  and  an  address  which  turns  every  situation  to 
the  best  advantage.  Indeed  in  all  the  ancient  romances 
the  heroine  is  invariably  the  most  engaging  and  spirited 
character ; — a  circumstance  which  cannot  but  surprise, 
when  we  consider  what  an  inferior  part  the  women  of 
Greece  acted  in  society,  and  how  little  they  mingled  in  the 
affairs  of  life. 

Heliodorus  has  been  ridiculed  l\v  Gabriel  Gucret,  the 
author  of  Le  Parnasse  Rcformc,  for  having  attributed  to 
his  hero  such  excessive  modesty,  that  he  gave  his  mis- 
tress a  box  on  the  ear  when  she  approached  to  embrace 
him  [vii.  7].  These  railleries,  however,  are  founded  on 
misrepresentation.  Theagenes  met  Chariclea  at  Memphis, 
but  mistaking  both  her  j^erson  and  character  from  her 
wretched  dress  and  appearance,  he  inflicted  a  blow  to  get 
rid  of  her  importunities — an  unhandsome  reception,  no 
doubt,  to  any  woman,  but  which  proves  nothing  as  to  his 
sentiments  concerning  Chariclea.  The  reader  will  perhaps 
remark  as  he  advances,  that  ^^ii'ates  and  robbers  have  a 
principal  share  in  the  action  of  the  succeeding  Greek 
romances,  as  well  as  in  the  Ethiopic  adventures.  Their 
leaders  are  frequently  the  second  characters,  and  occupy 
the  part  of  the  unsuccessful  lovers  of  the  heroine  ;  but  are 
not  always  painted  as  endued  with  any  peculiar  bad  quali- 
ties, or  as  exciting  horror  in  the  other  persons  of  the  work. 
Nor  is  this  rej^resentation  inconsistent  with  the  manners 
of  the  period  in  which  the  action  of  these  romances  is 
placed.  In  the  early  ages  of  Greece,  piracy  was  not  ac- 
counted a  dishonourable  employment.  In  the  ancient 
jwets,  those  that  sail  along  the  shore  are  usually  accosted 
with  the  question,  whether  they  are  pirates,  as  if  the  en- 
quiry could  not  be  considered  a  reproach  from  those  who 
were  anxious  to  be  informed,  and  as  if  those  who  were  in- 
terrogated would  not  scruple  to  acknowledge  their  vocation. 
Even  at  the  time  of  the  Peloponnesian  war,  the  ^tolians, 
Acarnanians,  and  some  other  nations,  subsisted  by  piracy  ; 

I.  D 


84  HISTORY    OF    FICTIOX.  [CH.  I. 

and  in  tlie  early  ages  of  Greece,  it  was  the  oeciijiiation  of  all 
those  who  resided  near  the  coast.  "  The  Grecians,"  says 
Thucydides,  in  the  very  beginning  of  his  History  [i.  5], 
"  took  up  the  trade  of  piracy  under  the  command  of  persons 
of  the  greatest  ability  amongst  them  ;  and  for  the  sake  of 
enriching  such  adventurers  and  subsisting  their  poor,  they 
landed  and  plundered  by  surprise  unfortified  places,  or 
scattered  villages.  Nor  was  this  an  employment  of  re- 
proach, but  rather  an  instrument  of  glory.  Some  jjeople 
of  the  continent  are  even  at  the  j^resent  day  a  proof  of  this, 
as  they  still  attribute  honour  to  such  exploits,  if  j^erformed 
with  due  respect  and  humanity." 

Heliodorus  abounds  in  DescrijDtions,  some  of  which  are 
extremely  interesting.  His  accounts  of  many  of  the  cus- 
toms of  the  Egyi^tians  are  said  to  be  very  correct,  and  he 
describes  particular  places  with  an  accuracy  which  gives  an 
ap23earance  of  reality  to  his  romance.^  He  seldom,  how- 
ever, delineates  the  great  outhnes  of  nature,  or  touches  on 
those  accidents  which  render  scenery  sublime  or  beautiful 
— he  chiefly  delights  in  minute  descriptions  of  the  pomp  of 
embassies  and  ]3rocessions,  and,  as  was  natural  in  a  priest, 
of  sacrifices,  or  religious  rites.  These  might  be  tiresome 
or  even  disgusting  in  a  modei-n  novel,  but  the  representa- 
tion of  manners,  of  customs,  and  of  ceremonies,  is  infinitely 
more  valuable  in  an  old  romance,  than  pictures  of  general 
nature. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Theagenes  and  Chariclea 
has  supplied  with  materials  many  of  the  early  writers  of 
Romance.  It  was  imitated  in  the  composition  of  Achilles 
Tatius,  and  subsequent  Greek  fablers ;  and  although  I 
cannot  trace  the  resemblance  which  is  said  to  exist  between 
the  work  of  Heliodorus,  and  that  species  of  modern  novel 
first  introduced  by  Eichardson,^  it  was  unquestionably  the 
model  of  those  heroic  fictions,  which,  through  the  wi'itings 
of  Gomberville  and  Scudery,  became  for  a  considerable 
period  so  popular  and  prevalent  in  France.     The  modern 

^  Scholl  (History  of  Greek  Literature,  iii.  p.  154),  however,  disputes 
the  accuracy  of  Heliodorus,  and  considers  his  descriptions  imaginary. 
See  also  Villemain,  Melanges  Historiques,  p.  425,  Essai  sur  les  romans 
grecs,  and  M.  Chassang,  Histoire  du  Eoman  dans  I'antiquite,  p.  425,  in 
the  same  sense.  -  Barbauld's  Preface  to  Richardson. 


CH.  I.]      HELIODORUS — THEAGENES    AND    CHARICLEA.  35 

Italian  poets  have  also  availed  themselves  of  the  incidents 
that  occur  in  the  work  of  Heliodorus/  Thus  the  circum- 
stances of  the  birth  and  early  life  of  Clorinda,  related  by 
Arsete  in  the  twelfth  canto  of  the  Jerusalem  Delivered, 
are  taken,  with  hardly  any  variation,  from  the  story  of  the 
infancy  of  Chariclea."  The  proposed  sacrifice  and  subse- 
quent discovery  of  the  birth  of  Chariclea  have  likewise  been 

^  Giambattista  Basile  took  also  from  it  the  subject  of  his  "  Teagene." 
Lieb. 

-  -'  In  Ethiopia  once  Senapus  reign'd, 

(And  still  perchance  he  rules  tlie  happy  land) 

Wlio  kept  the  precepts  given  by  Mary's  son. 

Where  yet  the  sable  race  his  doctrines  own. 

There  I  a  pagan  liv'd,  removed  from  man, 

The  Queen's  attendant  midst  the  female  train. 

Though  native  gloom  was  o'er  her  features  spread, 

Her  beauty  triumph'd  through  the  dusky  shade. 

Her  husband  lov'd — but  ah!  was  doomed  to  prove 

At  once  th'  extremes  of  jealousy  and  love  : 

He  kept  her  close,  secluded  from  mankind, 

Within  a  lonely  deep  recess  contin'd ; 

While  the  sage  matron  mild  submission  paid, 

And  what  her  lord  decreed,  with  joy  obey'd. 
Her  pictured  room  a  sacred  story  shows, 

Where,  rich  with  life,  each  mimic  figure  glows : 

There,  white  as  snow,  appears  a  beauteous  maid, 

And  near  a  dragon's  hideous  form  display 'd. 

A  champion  through  the  beast  a  javelin  sends. 

And  in  his  blood  the  monster's  bulk  extends. 
Here  oft  the  Queen  her  secret  faults  confess'd, 

And  prosti'ate  here  her  humble  vows  address'd. 

At  length  her  womb  disburthen'd  gave  to  view 

(Her  offspring  thou)  a  child  of  snow\'  hue. 

Struck  with  th'  unusual  birth,  with  looks  amaz'd. 

As  on  some  strange  portent,  the  matron  gaz'd ; 

She  knew  what  fears  possessed  her  husband's  mind. 

And  hence  to  hide  thee  fi'om  his  sight  designed, 

And,  as  her  own,  expose  to  public  view 

A  new-born  infant  like  herself  in  hue  : 

And  since  the  tower,  in  which  she  then  i-emain'd 

Alone  her  damsels  and  myself  contain'd  ; 

To  me,  who  loved  her  with  a  faithful  mind, 

Her  infant  charge  she  unbaptiz'd  consign'd, 

AVith  tears  and  sighs  she  gave  thee  to  my  care, 

Kcmote  from  thence  the  precious  pledge  to  bear! 

What  tongues  her  sorrows  and  her  plaints  can  tell. 

How  oft  she  press'd  thee  with  a  last  farewell  ''  etc. 

Gerus.  Liberat.  Hoole's  version,  canto  xii.  v.  161,  etc. 


36  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

imitated  in  tlie  Pastor  Fido  of  G-uarini,  and  through  it  in 
the  Astrea  of  D'Urfe. 

Eacine  had  at  one  time  intended  writing  a  drama  on  the 
subject  of  this  romance,  a  plan  which  has  been  accom- 
plished by  Dorat,  in  his  tragedy  of  Theagenes  and  Chari- 
clea,  which  was  acted  at  Paris  in  the  year  1762.  It  also 
suggested  the  x^lot  of  an  old  English  tragi-comedy  by 
J.  G-ough,  entitled  The  Strange  Discovery  (1640). 

Hardy,  the  French  poet,  wrote  eight  tragedies  in  verse 
on  the  same  subject,  without  materially  altering  the  ground- 
work of  the  romance, — an  instance  of  literary  prodigality 
which  is  perhaps  unexampled.  The  story,  though  well 
fitted  for  narrative,  is  unsuitable  for  tragedy,  which  indeed 
is  acknowledged  by  Dorat  in  his  preliminary  discourse. 
"  I  was  seized,"  observes  he,  "  with  enthusiasm  ;  I  raised  a 
tottering  edifice  with  romantic  proportions,  and  wrote  with 
inconceivable  warmth  a  cold  and  languid  drama." 

If  we  may  judge  by  success,  the  events  of  the  romance 
are  better  adapted  to  furnish  materials  to  the  artist  than 
the  tragic  poet.  Two  of  the  most  striking  incidents  that 
occur  in  the  work  of  Heliodorus  have  been  finely  deli- 
neated by  Raphael,  in  separate  paintings,  in  which  he  was 
assisted  by  Giulio  Eomano.  In  one  he  has  seized  the 
moment  when  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  meet  in  the  temple 
of  Delphos,  and  Chariclea  j^resents  Theagenes  with  a  torch 
to  kindle  the  sacrifice  [iii.  6] .  In  the  other  he  has  chosen  for 
his  subject  the  capture  of  the  Tyrian  ship,  in  which  Calasiris 
was  conducting  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  to  the  coast  of 
Sicily.  The  vessel  is  suj^posed  to  have  already  struck  to  the 
pirates,  and  Chariclea  is  exhibited,  by  the  light  of  the 
moon,  in  a  suppliant  posture,  imploring  Trachinus  that  she 
might  not  be  separated  from  her  lover  and  Calasiris  [v.  26]  .^ 

Theagenes  and  Chariclea  was  received  with  much  aj)- 
plause  in  the  age  in  which  it  appeared.  The  poi^ularity  of 
a  work  invariably  produces  imitation ; — and  hence  the 
style  of  composition  which  had  recently  been  introduced, 
was  soon  adopted  by  various  writers.^ 

^  I  have  made  several  attempts  to  verify  this  statement  and  ascertain 
the  whereabouts  of  these  pictures,  but  witliout  success.     Ed. 

-  It  would  even  appear  that  commentaries  had  been  written  upon  it. 
Rohde,  pp.  443  and  522. 


CH.  1.]      ACHILLES  TATIUS LEUCIPPE  AND  CLITOPHOX.      37 

Of  these,  Achilles  Tatius,  the  author  of  the  Erotica,  or 

Leucippe  and  Clitophon,^ 

comes  next  to  Heliodoriis  in  time,  and  perhaps  in  merit. 
Though  in  many  respects  he  has  imitated  his  predecessor, 
it  may  in  the  first  place  be  remarked,  that  he  has  adopted 
a  mode  of  narrative  totally  different.  The  author  intro- 
duces himself  as  gazing  at  the  picture  of  Europa,  which 
was  placed  in  the  temple  of  Venus  in  Sidon.  While  thus 
employed,  he  is  accosted  by  Clitoplion,  who,  without  pre- 
vious acquaintance,  relates  to  him  his  whole  adventures, 
which  are  comprised  in  eight  books.  This  way  of  intro- 
ducing the  story  is  no  doubt  very  absurd,  but  when  once 
it  is  commenced,  the  plan  of  narration  is  preferable  to  that 
part  of  Theagenes  and  Chariclea  which  is  told  by  an  in- 
ferior character  in  the  work. 

The  following  is  the  story  of  the  romance : — Clitoj^hon 
resided  at  his  father's  house  in  Tyre,  where  his  cousin 
Leucippe  came  to  seek  refuge  from  a  war  which  was  at 
that  time  carried  on  against  her  native  country  [i.  4]. 
These  young  relatives  became  mutually  enamoured,  and 

^  "AxiXAfWf  Taris  'AXf ^arcpfwc,'EpainK:d)i'  jSitXia  j;,or T«  kutu  XevKiTnrjjv 
Kai  K\tiTo<pwi'Ta.  Ed,  Boden.  Lipsia?,  1776.  Little  is  known  of  Tatius. 
Suidas  (Lexic.  'Ax''^-^-  Tonot)  has  a  very  brief  notice  of  him,  according  to 
which  he  became  a  Christian  subsequently  to  the  composition  of  Leucippe 
and  Clitophon,  and  was  raised  to  a  bishopric.  He  is  supposed  by  some  to 
have  lived  in  the  fourth  century,  but  Boden  thinks  he  must  have  been  later, 
because  in  some  of  his  descriptions  (Ed.  Hercher.  xlii.  13-18)  he  has  ob- 
viously imitated  the  poet  Musffius  (vers.  92-98),  whom  he  thinks  posterior 
to  that  time.  He  was  a  rhetorician  of  Alexandria,  and  is  said  (but  this 
is  impi'obablc)  to  have  composed  various  treatises  connected  with  philo- 
logy, astronomy,  and  history.  He  was  perhaps  a  contemporary  of 
Nonnus.  There  is  an  epigram  in  praise  of  him,  particularly  of  the 
chastity  of  his  romance,  by  the  Emperor  Leo  Philosnphus  (Anthol.  Gr. 
ix.  203).  The  lines  have  also  been  attributed  to  rhotius,  but  it  is  not 
probable  he  was  the  author,  if  we  consider  the  opinion  he  gives  of  the 
work  of  Tatius  in  his  Myriabibla  (cod.  87).  Jerome  Commelinus  first 
undertook  an  edition  of  this  romance  ;  but  died  before  it  was  completed  ; 
it  was  published  by  his  nephew  in  1601.  About  forty  yeai's  afterwards 
a  more  perfect  edition  was  given  by  iSalmasius,  at  Leyden,  and  the  work 
was  illustrated  by  a  number  of  notes,  which  have  been  generally  added 
to  the  more  recent  impressions.  There  have  been  numerous  translations 
of  the  work  ;  an  English  version,  by  A.  Hodges,  was  printed  at  ( )xford 
in  1638,  and  there  is  another  English  edition  in  Bohn's  Classical  Library. 


38  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

Leiicippe's  mother  liaying  discovered  Clitoplion  one  night 
in  the  chamber  of  her  daughter,  the  lovers  resolved  to 
avoid  the  effects  of  her  anger  by  flight  [ii.  30].  Accom- 
panied by  Clinias,  a  friend  of  Clitoplion,  they  sailed  in  the 
first  instance  for  Berytus.  A  conversation  which  took 
place  between  Clitoplion  and  Clinias  during  the  voyage, 
seems  to  have  been  suggested  by  the  singular  disquisition 
contained  in  the  "Epwrec,  attributed  to  Luciaii,  and  usually 
published  in  his  works.  After  a  short  stay  at  Berytus, 
the  fugitives  set  out  for  Alexandria :  the  vessel  was  wrecked 
on  the  third  day  of  the  voyage  [iii.  1],  but  Clitoj^hon  and 
Leucippe,  adhering  with  great  presence  of  mind  to  the 
same  plank,  were  driven  on  shore  near  Pelusium  in  Egypt 
[iii.  5].  At  this  place  they  hired  a  vessel  to  carry  them 
to  Alexandria,  but  while  sailing  up  the  Nile  they  were 
seized  by  a  band  of  robbers  who  infested  the  banks  of  the 
river  [iii.  9].  The  robbers  were  soon  after  attacked  by  the 
Egyptian  forces,  commanded  by  Charmides,  to  whom 
Clitoplion  escaped  during  the  heat  of  the  engagement — 
Leucij^pe,  however,  remained  in  the  power  of  the  enemy, 
who,  with  much  solemnity,  apparently  ripped  u-p  our 
heroine  close  to  the  army  of  Charmides,  and  in  the  sight 
of  her  lover,  who  was  prevented  from  interfering  by  a  deep 
fosse  wliich  separated  the  two  armies  [iii.  15].  The  ditch 
having  been  filled  up,  Clitophon  in  the  course  of  the  night 
went  to  immolate  himself  on  the  spot  where  Leucippe  had 
been  interred.  He  arrived  at  her  tomb,  but  was  prevented 
from  executing  his  purpose  by  the  sudden  aj^pearance  of 
his  servant  Satyrus,  and  of  Menelaus,  a  young  man  who 
had  sailed  with  him  in  the  vessel  from  Berytus.  These  two 
persons  had  also  escajDcd  from  the  shipwreck,  and  had 
afterwards  fallen  into  the  power  of  the  robbers.  By  them 
Leucippe  had  been  accommodated  with  a  false  uterus, 
made  of  sheep's  skin,  which  gave  rise  to  the  deceptio  visus 
above  related  [iii.  19-23].  At  the  command  of  Menelaus, 
Leucipi^e  issued  from  the  tomb  [iii.  17],  and  proceeded 
with  Clitoj)hon  and  Menelaus  to  the  quarters  of  Char- 
mides [iii.  23].  In  a  short  time  this  commander  became 
enamoured  of  Leucippe  [iv.  6],  as  did  also  Grorgias,  one  of 
his  ofiicers.  Gorgias  gave  her  a  potion  calculated  to  in- 
spire her  with  reciprocal  j^assion,  but  which,   being  too 


CH.  I.]      ACHILLES  TATIUS LEUCIPPE  AND  CLITOPHON.       31) 

stroiiiT^,  affoc'tod  her  -with  a  species  of  madness  of  a  very 
indeeoroiis  character.^  She  is  cured,  however,  by  Chaereas, 
another  person  who  had  fallen  in  love  with  her  [v.  13 \ 
and  had  discovered  the  secret  of  the  potion  from  the  ser- 
vant of  Gorii^ias  [iv.  15] .  Takinoj  Chaereas  along  with 
them,  Clitophon  and  Leucippe  sail  for  Alexandria.  Soon 
after  their  arrival,  Leucippe  was  carried  off  from  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  that  place,  and  hurried  on  board  a  vessel  by 
a  troop  of  banditti  employed  by  Chaereas.  Clitophon  pur- 
sued the  vessel,  but  when  just  coming  up  with  it  he  saw 
the  head  of  a  i:>erson  he  mistook  for  Leucippe  struck  off 
by  the  robbers  [v.  /].  Disheartened  by  this  incident,  he 
relinquished  the  pursuit  and  returned  to  Alexandria. 
There  he  was  informed  that  Melite,  a  rich  Ephesian  widow, 
at  that  time  residing  in  Alexandria,  had  fallen  in  love 
with  him.  This  intelligence  he  received  from  his  old  friend 
Clinias  [v.  11],  who,  after  the  wreck  of  the  vessel  in  which 
he  had  embarked  with  Clitophon,  had  got  on  shore  by  the 
usual  expedient  of  a  j^lank,  and  now  suggested  to  his 
friend  that  he  should  avail  himself  of  the  predilection  of 
Melite  [v.  12].  In  compliance  with  this  suggestion,  he 
set  sail  with  her  for  Ephesus,  but  persisted  in  postponing 
the  nuptials  till  they  should  reach  that  place,  spite  of  the 
most  vehement  importunities  on  the  part  of  the  widow. 
On  their  arrival  at  Ephesus  the  marriage  took  j^lace,  but 
before  Melite' s  object  in  the  marriage  had  been  accom- 
plished, Clitophon  discovered  Leucippe  among  his  wife's 
slaves ;  and  Thersander,  Melite' s  husband,  who  was  sup- 
loosed  to  be  drowned,  arrived  at  Ephesus.  Clitiphon  was 
instantly  confined  by  the  enraged  husband  [v.  23]  ;  but, 
on  condition  of  putting  the  last  seal  to  the  now  invalid 
marriage,  he  escaped  by  the  intervention  of  Melite.  He  had 
not  proceeded  far  when  he  was  overtaken  by  Thersander, 
and  brought  back  to  confinement.  Thersander,  of  course, 
fell  in  love  with  Leucippe,  but  not  being  able  to  engage 
her  affections,  he  brought  two  actions  ;  one  declaratory,  that 
Leucippe  was  his  slave,  and  a  prosecution  against  CHto- 

^  During  this  state  of  mental  alienation  she  commits  many  acts  of 
extravagance.  She  boxes  her  lover  on  the  ear,  repulses  Menelaus  witli 
her  feet,  and  at  last  quarrels  with  her  petticoats ;  //  ci  irpoat7ra\aiei> 
ilfxlv  sdiv  (ppoi'Tii^tiaa  KpvTTTHV  ona  -yvvt)  fit)  upcifr&ai  ■S'iXei.  1.  4.  c.  9. 


40  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

phon  for  niarrying  his  wife  [vi.  5].  The  debates  [vii.  7- 
12,  viii.  8-16]  on  both  sides  are  insufferably  tiresome.  The 
priest  of  Diana,  with  whom  Leucippe  had  taken  refuge, 
lavishes  much  abuse  on  Thersander,  which  is  returned  on 
his  part  with  equal  volubility.  Leucippe  is  at  last  sub- 
jected to  a  trial  of  chastity  in  the  cave  of  Diana,  from 
which  the  sweetest  music  issued  when  entered  by  those 
who  resembled  its  goddess.  Never  were  notes  heard  so 
melodious  as  those  by  which  Leucippe  was  vindicated. 
Thersander  was  of  course  nonsuited,  and  retired  loaded 
with  infamy  [viii.  14].  Leucippe  then  related  that  it  was 
a  woman  dressed  in  her  clothes,  whose  head  had  been 
struck  off  by  the  banditti,  in  order  to  deter  Clitophon 
from  farther  pursuit,  but  that  a  quarrel  having  arisen 
among  them  on  her  account,  Chaereas  was  slain,  and  after 
his  death  she  was  sold  by  the  other  pirates  to  Sosthenes. 
By  him  she  had  been  purchased  for  Thersander,  in  whose 
service  she  remained  till  discovered  bv  Clitophon  [viii. 
16].  ' 

In  this  romance  many  of  the  descriptions  are  borrowed 
from  Philostratus,  and  the  Hero  and  Leander  of  Musseus. 
Some  of  the  events  have  also  been  taken  from  Heliodorus.^ 
Like  that  author,  Tatius  makes  frequent  use  of  robbers, 
pirates,  and  dreams ;  but  the  general  style  of  his  work  is 
totally  different.  If  there  be  less  sweetness  and  interest 
than  in  Theagenes  and  Chariclea,  there  is  more  bustle  in 
the  action.  A  number  of  the  amorous  stratagems,  too, 
are  original  and  well  imagined — such  as  Clitophon' s  dis- 
course on  love  with  Satyrus,  in  the  hearing  of  Leucippe 
[i.  16-20]  ;  and  the  beautiful  incident  of  the  bee  [ii.  7], 
which  has  been  adopted  by  D'Urfe,  and  by  Tasso  in  his 
Aminta,  where  Sylvia  having  pretended  to  cure  Phyllis, 
whom  a  bee  had  stung,  by  kissing  her,  Aminta  perceiving 
this,  feigns  that  he  too  had  been  stung,  in  order  that 
Sylvia,  pitying  his  pain,  might  apj^ly  a  similar  remedy.^ 

1  Also  from  Plato,  Longus,  Synesias,  Nonnns,  and  others.  See 
Passow  in  Ersch  and  Gruber's  Encyclopaedia,  suh  voce  Achilles  Tatius. 

2  "I  made  pretence, 
As  if  the  bee  had  bitten  my  under  lip ; 
And  fell  to  lamentations  of  such  sort, 

That  the  sweet  medicine  which  I  dared  not  ask 


CH.  I.]      ACHILLES  TATIUS — LEUCIPPE  AND  CLITOPHON.       41 

Among  tliose  devices  may  Ije  mentioned  the  petition  of 
Melite  to  Leueippe,  whom  she  believes  to  be  a  Thessahan, 
to  procure  her  herbs  for  a  potion  that  may  gain  her  the 
affections  of  Clitophon.  The  sacrifice,  too,  of  Leucippe  by 
the  robbers  in  the  presence  of  her  lover,  is  happily  imagined, 
were  not  the  solution  of  the  enigma  so  wretched.  As  the 
work  advances,  liowever,  it  must  be  confessed,  that  it 
gradually  decreases  in  interest,  and  that  these  agreeable 
incidents  are  more  thinly  scattered.  Towards  the  conclu- 
sion it  becomes  insufferably  tiresome,  and  the  author 
scruples  not  to  violate  all  verisimilitude  in  the  events 
related. 

Indeed,  through  the  whole  romance,  want  of  probability 
seems  the  great  defect.  Nothing  can  be  more  absurd  or 
unnatural  than  the  false  uterus — nothing  can  be  worse 
imagined  than  the  vindication  of  the  heroine  in  the  cave  of 
Diana,  wliich  is  the  final  solution  of  the  romance.  When 
it  is  necessary  for  the  story  that  Thersander  should  be  in- 

With  word  of  mouth,  I  asked  for  with  my  looks. 

The  simple  Sylvia  then, 

Compassioning  my  pain, 

OflFered  to  give  her  help 

To  that  pretended  wound  ; 

And  oh  I  the  real  and  the  mortal  wound, 

Which  pierced  into  my  being, 

When  her  lips  came  on  mine  I 

Never  did  bee  from  flower 

Suck  sugar  so  divine, 

As  was  the  honey  that  I  gathered  then 

From  those  twin  roses  fi'esh. 

I  could  have  bathed  them  in  my  burning  kisses, 

But  fear  and  shame  withheld 

That  too  audacious  fire, 

And  made  them  gently  hang. 

But  while  into  my  bosom's  core,  the  sweetness, 

Mixed  with  a  secret  poison,  did  go  down, 

It  pierced  me  so  with  pleasure,  that  still  feigning 

The  pain  of  the  bee's  weapon,  I  contrived 

That  more  than  once  the  enchantment  was  repeated.'' 

Aminta,  act  i.  so.  2,  Leigh  Hunt's  translation. 

Cf.  too  Sir  John  Suckling's — 

"  Her  lips  were  red  and  one  was  thin. 
Compared  to  that  was  next  her  chin, 
Some  bee  had  stung  it  newly."' 


42  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

formed  who  Leucippe  is,  tlie  autlior  makes  liim  overliear  a 
soliloquy,  in  wliicli  she  re^^orts  to  herself  a  full  account  of 
her  genealogy,  and  an  abridgement  of  her  whole  adven- 
tures. A  soliloquy  can  never  be  properly  introduced, 
unless  the  speaker  is  under  the  influence  of  some  strong 
passion,  or  reasons  on  some  important  subject ;  but  as 
Heliodorus  borrowed  from  Soj)hocles,  so  Tatius  is  said  to 
to  have  imitated  Euripides.  From  him  he  may  have 
taken  this  unnatural  species  of  soliloquy,  as  this  impro- 
priety exists  in  almost  all  the  introductions  to  the  tragedies 
of  that  poet. 

Tatius  has  been  much  blamed  for  the  immorality  of  his 
romance,  and  it  must  be  acknowledged  that  there  are 
particular  passages  which  are  extremely  excei^tionable ; 
yet,  however  odious  some  of  these  may  be  considered,  the 
general  moral  tendency  of  the  story  is  good ; — a  remark 
which  may  be  extended  to  all  the  G-reek  romances.  Tatius 
punishes  his  hero  and  heroine  for  eloj)ing  from  their 
father's  house,  and  afterwards  rewards  them  for  their 
long  fidelity.^ 

^  Though  in  the  Greek  romances  the  surface  may  be  often  impure, 
remarks  M.  Chassang  (Hist,  du  Rom.  p.  424),  the  substance  is  nearly 
always  moral.  The  imaginations  of  the  writers  are  indeed  generally 
libertine,  their  pictures  sensual,  and  their  language  broad.  But  we 
know  enough  of  antiquity  to  allow  for  an  outrightness  in  expression, 
which  modern  diction  does  not  emulate,  and  to  recognize  happily  many 
differences  between  Greek  and  modern  French  mannei's.  Again,  in 
these  compositions  the  authors  do  not  dilate  much  on  duty  and  virtue, 
nor  fill  pages  with  elaborate  sentimental  disquisition;  the  senses  are 
given  a  prominence  which  shocks  our  modern  delicacy ;  but  in  the  long 
run  their  heroes  will  compare  well  with  too  many  others,  in  the  struggle 
to  subdue  their  passions,  in  their  vigilance  against  surprises  by  the 
senses,  and  in  their  triumph  over  abundant  seductions.  If  the}'^  give  way 
to  amorous  delights,  it  is  from  impulse,  from  weakness,  never  on  system ; 
they  break  through  the  maxims  of  conduct,  they  do  not  seek  rebellious 
abolishment  of  them.  They  contain  no  such  types  as  Lovelace  or  Saint 
Preux.  The  literary  art  was  not  yet  far  enough  advanced  to  substitute 
the  display  of  fine  sentiments  for  the  fulfilment  of  duty ;  and  while  the 
heroes  of  modern  novels,  elevating  love  into  a  virtue,  often  do  not  recoil 
from  adultery,  those  of  Greek  romances  always  remain  virgin  and  pure 
amidst  a  host  of  perils,  and  despite  the  obstacles  which  oppose  their 
union.  One  cannot  but  acknowledge,  however,  that  the  continence  of 
the  heroes  of  the  Greek  romancists  strikes  a  singular  contrast  with 
their  voluptuous  proclivities.  HoweA'er  moral  their  example,  its  effect 
is  destroyed  by  the  nudity,  so  to  speak,  of  particular  situations.     It  is 


CH.  I.]      ACHILLES  TATIUS LEUCIPPE  AND  CLITOPHON.      43 

The  Clitoplion  and  Leueippo  of  Tatiiis  does  not  seem  to 
have  Leeu  eoinj^osed  like  Theagenes  aud  Charidea,  as  a 
romaDce  equally  interesting  aud  well  written  throughout, 
but  as  a  species  of  patchwork,  in  different  places  of  which 
the  author  might  exhibit  the  variety  of  his  talents.  At 
one  time  he  is  anxious  to  show  his  taste  in  painting  and 
sculpture ;  at  another  his  acquaintance  with  natural  his- 
tory ;  and  towards  the  end  of  the  book  his  skill  in  decla- 
mation. But  his  principal  excellence  lies  in  descriptions ; 
and  though  these  are  too  luxuriant,  they  are  in  general 
beautiful,  the  objects  being  at  once  well  selected,  and  so 
painted  as  to  form  in  the  mind  of  the  reader  a  distinct  and 
lively  image.  As  examples  of  his  merit  in  this  way  may 
be  instanced,  his  descrijjtiou  of  a  garden  [i.  16],  and  of 
a  tempest  followed  by  a  shij^wreck  [iii.  234].  We  may 
also  mention  his  accounts  of  the  pictures  of  Euroj^a  [i.  1], 
of  Andromeda  [iii.  7],  and  Prometheus  [iii.  8],  in  which 
his  descriptions  and  criticisms  are  executed  with  very  con- 
siderable taste  and  feeling.  Indeed,  the  remarks  on  these 
])aintings  form  a  presumption  of  the  advanced  state  of  the 
art  at  the  period  in  which  Tatius  wrote,  or  at  least  of  the 
estimation  in  which  it  was  held,  and  afford  matter  of  much 
curious  speculation  to  connoisseurs  and  artists. 

Writers,  however,  are  apt  to  indulge  themselves  in  en- 
larging where  they  excel ;  accordingly  the  descriptions  of 
Tatius  are  too  nimierous,  and  sometimes  very  absurdly 
introduced.  Thus  Clitophon,  when  mentioning  the  pre- 
parations for  his  marriage  with  a  woman  he  disliked,  pre- 
sents the  reader  with  a  long  description  of  a  necklace 
which  was  purchased  for.  her,  and  also  enters  into  a  detail 
concerning  the  origin  of  dyeing  purple  [ii.  11] ;  he  likewise 
introduces  very  awkwardly  an  account  of  various  zoological 
curiosities  [ii.  14].  Indeed,  he  seems  particularly  fond  of 
natural  history,  and  gives  very  animated  and  correct  de- 
lineations of  the  hippopotamus  [iv.  2,  cSjc],  of  the  elephant 
[iv.  4],  and  the  crocodile  [iv.  19]. 

The  description  of  the  rise  and  progress  of  the  passion 

not,  then,  in  the  Greek  romances  that  moral  lessons  are  to  be  sought, 
they  may  rather  supply  information  respecting  the  j)rivate  lite  of  the 
ancients,  though  their  trustworthiness  in  this  regard  is  by  no  means 
unchallenged.     (See  note,  p.  62,  3.) 


44  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.   I. 

of  Clitophon  for  Leucippe  is  extremely  well-executed.  Of 
this  there  is  nothing  in  the  romance  of  Heliodorus.  Thea- 
genes  and  Chariclea  at  first  sight  are  violently  and  mutually 
enamoured ;  in  Tatius  we  have  more  of  the  restless  agita- 
tion of  love  and  the  arts  of  courtship.  Indeed,  this  is 
by  much  the  best  part  of  the  Clitophon  and  Leucippe,  as 
the  author  discloses  very  considerable  acquaintance  with 
the  human  heart.  This  knowledge  also  appears  in  the 
sentiments  scattered  through  the  work,  though  it  must  be 
confessed  that  in  many  of  his  remarks  he  is  apt  to  subtilize 
and  refine  too  much. 

In  point  of  style,  Tatius  is  said  by  Huet  and  other 
critics  ^  to  excel  Heliodorus,  and  all  the  writers  of  Greek 
romance.  His  language  has  been  chiefly  aj^plauded  for  its 
conciseness,  ease,  and  simplicity.  Photius,  who  wrote 
tolerable  Greek  himself,  and  must  have  been  a  better 
judge  than  any  later  critic,  observes,  "  with  regard  to  dic- 
tion and  composition,  Tatius  seems  to  me  to  excel.  When 
he  employs  figurative  language,  it  is  clear  and  natural : 
his  sentences  are  precise  and  limpid,  and  such  as  by  their 
sweetness  greatly  delight  the  ear."  " 

In  the  delineation  of  character  Tatius  is  still  more  defec- 
tive than  Heliodorus. — Clitophon,  the  principal  person  in 
the  romance,  is  a  wretchedly  weak  and  ^pusillanimous 
being ;  he  twice  allows  himself  to  be  beaten  by  Thersander, 
without  resistance — he  has  neither  sense  nor  courage,  nor 
indeed  any  virtue  except  uncommon  fidelity  to  his  mistress. 
She  is  a  much  more  interesting,  and  is  indeed  a  heroic 
character.^ 

We  now  proceed  to  the  analysis  of  a  romance  different 
in  its  nature  from  the  works  already  mentioned ;  and  of  a 
species  which  may  be  distinguished  by  the  appellation  of 
Pastoral  romance. 

It  may  be  conjectured  with  much  probability,  that  pas- 
toral composition  sometimes  expressed  the  devotion,  and 
sometimes  formed  the  entertainment,  of  the  first  generations 
of  mankind.  The  sacred  writings  sufficiently  inform  us  that 

^  Huet.  p.  40,  Boder.  prsef.  p.  15. 
2  Photius,  Bib.  Cod.  Ixxxvii.  p.  206. 

^  Durier  (1605-1658)  wrote  a  tale  in  imitation  of  Achilles  Tatius, 
entitled  :  "  Les  Amours  de  Leucippe  et  de  Clitophon  en  deux  jom-nees.'' 


CH.  I.]  DAPHNIS    AND    CHLOE.  46 

it  existed  ainony-  the  eastern  nations  durinLT  the  earliest 
ages.  Knral  images  are  everywhere  seattered  through  the 
Old  Testament ;  and  the  Song  of  Solomon  in  particular 
beautifully  delineates  the  charms  of  a  country  life,  while  it 
paints  the  most  amiable  affections  of  the  mind,  and  the 
sweetest  scenery  of  nature.  A  number  of  passages  of 
Theocritus  bear  a  striking  resemblance  to  descriptions  in 
the  inspired  pastoral ;  and  many  critics  have  believed  that 
he  had  studied  its  beauties,  and  transferred  them  to  his 
eclogues.  Theocritus  was  imitated  in  his  ovm  dialect  by 
Moschus  and  Bion ;  and  Virgil,  taking  advantage  of  a 
different  language,  copied  yet  rivalled  the  Sicilian.  The 
Bucolics  of  the  Roman  bard  seem  to  have  been  considered 
as  precluding  all  attempts  of  the  same  kind  ;  for,  if  we 
except  the  feeble  efforts  of  Calpurnius,  and  his  contem- 
porary Nemesianus,  who  lived  in  the  third  century,  no 
subsequent  specimen  of  pastoral  poetry  was,  as  far  as  I 
know,  i:)roduced  till  the  revival  of  literature. 

It  was  during  this  interval  that  luongus,  a  G-reek  sophist, 
who  is  said  to  have  lived  soon  after  the  age  of  Tatius, 
Avrote  his  pastoral  romance  of 

Daphnis  and  Chloe, 

which  is  the  earliest,  and  by  far  the  finest  example  that 
has    appeared  of  this   species  of  composition.^     Availing 

^  Rohde  (Gr.  Kom.  p.  503)  thinks  that  Tatius  lived  later  than  the  author 
of  Daphnis  and  Chloe,  and  indeed  imitated  him  in  some  respects  {e.g.^ 
the  sumptuous  description  of  a  garden,  of  a  town,  and  the  episode  of 
Pan  and  the  flute.  It  is  extremely  doubtful  whether  Longus  was  ever 
the  name  of  any  Greek  authoi*.  Scholl  (Hist,  de  la  Litt.  Gr.  vi.  p.  238) 
supposes  the  alleged  name  of  the  author  to  be  simply  a  false  reading  of 
the  last  word  of  the  title  as  fuund  in  the  Florentine  ]MS.  :  Af(T/3£afcwi' 
iooj-iKojv  Xoyoi  c',  and  this  suggestion  is  adopted  by  Jacobs  in  his 
German  version,  1832,  and  b}'  Seller  in  his  edition  of  Longi  Pastoralia, 
Lipsia?,  1835.  The  last-named  editor  says  (Prsef.  p.  iii.)  that  the  best 
MS.  begins  and  ends  with  \6yov  -ot/tfj'/icwj',  instead  of  Adyyov,  and  that 
Stephens  cites  two  copies,  in  one  of  which  the  heading  began  Xoyov,  and 
in  the  other  Auyyov.  If  the  author  was  really  Longus,  he  was  probabl}' 
a  frcedman  of  one  of  the  many  Roman  families  who  bore  this  cognomen. 
Be  this  as  it  may,  we  know  nothing  of  the  author's  life  or  date,  which  Kohde 
(Gr.  I\om.  p.  502)  gives  reasons  for  placing  at  the  close  of  the  second 
century.  Photius  says  nothing  of  him  in  his  Myriabiblia,  nor  is  he 
mentioned  by  any  of  the  authors  with  whom  he  is  supposed  to  have 


46  HISTOKY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

himself  of  the  beauties  of  the  pastoral  poets  who  preceded 
him,  he  has  added  to  their  simj^licity  of  style,  and  charm- 
ing pictures  of  Nature,  a  story  which  possesses  consider- 
able interest,  and  of  which  the  following  abstract  is  pre- 
sented to  the  reader. 

In  the  neighbourhood  of  Mytilene,  the  principal  city  of 
Lesbos,  Lamon,  a  goatherd,  as  he  was  one  day  tending  his 
flock,  discovered  an  infant  sucking  one  of  his  goats  with 
surprising  dexterity.  He  takes  home  the  child,  and  j^i'e- 
sents  him  to  his  wife  Myrtale  ;  at  the  same  time  he  delivers 
to  her  a  purple  mantle  with  which  the  boy  was  adorned, 
and  a  little  sword  with  an  ivory  hilt,  which  was  lying  by 
his  side.  Lamon  having  no  children  of  his  own,  resolves 
to  bring  up  the  foundling,  and  bestows  on  him  the  pastoral 
name  of  Daphnis  [Bk.  I.  c.  3J.^ 

About  two  years  after  this  occurrence,  Dryas,  a  neigh- 
bouring shepherd,  finds  in  the  cave  of  the  nymphs,  which 
is  beautifully  described  in  the  romance,  a  female  infant, 
nursed  by  one  of  his  ewes.  The  child  is  brought  to  the 
cottage  of  Dryas,  receives  the  name  of  Chloe,  and  is  che- 
rished by  the  old  man  as  if  she  had  been  his  daughter 
[i.  6]. 

When  Daphnis  had  reached  the  age  of  fifteen,  and  Chloe 
that  of  thirteen,  Lamon  and  Dryas,  their  reputed  fathers, 
had  corresponding  dreams  on  the  same  night.  The  nymphs 
of  the  cave  in  which  Chloe  had  been  discovered  aj^pear  to 
each  of  the  old  shepherds,  delivering  Daphnis  and  Chloe  to 
a  winged  boy,  with  a  bow  and  arrows,  who  commands  that 
Daphnis  should  be  sent  to  keep  goats,  and  the  girl  to  tend 

been  contemporary.  His  book  itself  shows  that  he  was  a  clever  and 
well-i*ead  sophist  of  the  school  of  Lucian  and  the  Philostrati ;  and  the 
style  and  tone  of  the  novel,  no  less  than  its  proper  title  AtcTiSiciKa,  or 
'  Lesbian  Adventures,'  place  it  in  the  same  class  with  the  -^thiopica  of 
Heliodorus.  Mueller,  Hist.  Lit.  Gr.  p.  iii.  p.  357.  See  further  an  ex- 
cellent article,  which  is  from  the  pen  of  Professor  Maiden,  in  Knight's 
Quarterly  Magazine,  vol.  i.  pp.  277-295,  on  this  romance.  For  the 
bibliograph}'  of  the  Lesbiaca,  see  Scholl,  Hist.  Gr.  Lit.  iii.  p.  161,  but 
and  especially  the  Xotice  bibliographique  par  A.  J.  Pons  appended  to 
the  French  translation  published  by  Quantin,  of  Paris,  in  1878. 

^  In  the  indication  of  the  chapters  it  has  been  thought  best  to  follow 
M.  Zevort's  French  translation  (Komans  Grecs,  precede  d'une  intro- 
duction sur  le  Roman  chez  les  Grecs,  Paris,  1856). 


CH.  I.]  DAPHNIS    AND    CHLOE.  47 

the  sliot'p:  Dapliiiis  and  Chloe  have  not  loii<,'  entered  on 
their  new  employments,  whieh  they  exereise  with  a  eare  of 
their  tloeks,  inereased  by  a  knowledge  of  the  circumstances 
of  their  infancy,  when  chance  brings  them  to  pasture  on 
the  same  spot  [i.  8].  It  was  then,  says  the  romance,  the 
beginning  of  spring,  and  every  species  of  flower  bloomed 
through  the  woods,  the  meadows  and  mountains. — The 
tender  flocks  sported  around — the  lambs  skipped  on  the 
hills — the  bees  hummed  through  the  valleys — and  the  birds 
tilled  the  groves  with  their  song.  Daphnis  collects  the 
wandering  slieej^  of  Chloe,  and  Cliloe  drives  from  the  rocks 
the  goats  of  Daphnis.  They  make  reeds  in  common,  and 
share  together  their  milk  and  their  wine ; — their  youth, 
their  beauty,  the  season  of  the  year,  every  thing  tends  to 
inspire  them  with  a  mutual  passion :  which  is  further 
strengthened  in  Chloe' s  breast  by  the  sight  of  Dajihnis 
l)atliing  in  the  stream.  Chloe  had,  however,  another  ad- 
mirer, Dorco,  a  cow-herd,  who  had  rescued  Da2:)linis  from  a 
pit  into  which  he  had  tumbled.  Between  him  and  DajDhnis 
a  discussion  arose  as  to  which  of  them  was  the  handsomer. 
When  both  of  them  had  spoken,  Chloe,  who  was  umpire, 
decided  in  favour  of  Daphnis,  and  bestowed  upon  liim  the 
award  for  victory,  a  kiss  [i.  16].^ 

Chloe' s  other  admirer,  Dorco,  the  cow-herd,  having  in 
vain  requested  her  in  marriage  from  Dryas,  her  reputed 
father,  resolves  to  carry  her  oif  by  force ;  for  this  purpose 
he  disguises  himself  as  a  wolf,  and  lurks  among  some 
bushes  near  a  place  where  Chloe  used  to  pasture  her  sheep. 
In  this  garb  he  is  discovered  and  attacked  by  the  dogs, 
who  entered  into  his  frolic  with  unexpected  alacrity,  but  is 
preserved  from  being  torn  to  pieces  by  the  timely  arrival 
of  Daphnis.  From  the  example  of  Dorco  this  became  a 
favourite  stratagem  among  pastoral  characters.  In  the 
Pastor  Fido  (act  iv.  sc.  ii.),  Dorinda  disguises  herself  as  a 

^  These  two  episodes  (Bk.  i.  13-17)  form  the  fragment  which  was 
omitted  in  all  editions  published  before  1810.  It  was  found  by  P.  L. 
Courier  in  1807  in  a  Manuscript  in  the  Laurentian  Library  in  Florence, 
and  has  been  reintegrated  with  the  work  in  subsequent  issues.  In  the 
English  translation  of  J.  Craggs  (1719,  172),  Mr.  H.  .Tenner  tells  me, 
''  a  passage  was  ingeniously  invented  to  supply  the  deficiency,  which 
is  however  far  more  precipitate  in  its  action  than  the  real  words  of 
Longus."' 


48  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

wolf,  and  the  troubador  Vidal  was  hunted  down  in  conse- 
quence of  a  similar  experiment/ 

Sj^ring  was  now  at  an  end — summer  beamed  forth  and 
all  Nature  flourished — the  trees  were  loaded  with  fruits, 
the  fields  were  covered  with  corn,  and  the  woods  were  filled 
with  melody — every  thing  tended  to  inspire  pleasure — the 
sweet  hum  of  the  cicada,  the  fragrance  of  the  ripening 
apples,  and  the  bleating  of  the  sheep.  The  gliding  streams 
were  heard  as  if  they  modulated  the  song,  and  the  breezes 
rustling  among  the  pines  seemed  the  breath  of  the  flute. 

In  the  beginning  of  autumn  some  Tyrian  ^^irates  having 
landed  on  the  island  [i.  28],  seize  the  oxen  of  Dorco,  and 
carry  off  Daphnis,  whom  they  meet  saiuitering  on  the  shore. 
Chloe  hearing  Daphnis  calling  for  assistance  from  the  ship, 
flies  for  help  to  Dorco,  and  reaches  him  when  he  is  just  ex- 
j^iring  of  the  wounds  inflicted  by  the  corsairs  of  Tyre.  Be- 
fore his  death  he  gives  her  his  pipe,  on  which,  after  she  had 
closed  his  eyes,  she  plays  according  to  his  instructions  a 
certain  tune  (probably  the  Eanz  des  Yaches),  which  being 
heard  by  the  oxen  in  the  Tyrian  vessel,  they  all  leap  over- 
board and  overset  the  ship.  The  pirates  being  loaded  with 
heavy  armour  are  drowned,  but  Daphnis  swims  safe  to 
shore. 

Here  ends  the  first  book ;  and  in  the  second  the  author 
proceeds  to  relate,  that  during  autumn  Daj^hnis  and  Chloe 
were  engaged  in  the  labours,  or  rather  the  delights,  of  the 
vintage."  After  the  grapes  had  been  gathered  and  pressed, 
and  the  new  wine  treasured  in  casks,  having  returned  to 
feed  their  flocks,  they  are  accosted  one  day  by  an  old  man 
named  Philetus,  who  tells  them  a  long  story  of  seeing  Cupid 
in  a  garden,  adding,  that  Daphnis  and  Chloe  were  to  be 

^  See  Diez,  Leben  und  Werke  der  Troubadours,  p.  169. 

-  A  great  deal  is  said  in  this  romance  concerning  the  vintage.  Lesbos 
had  in  all  times  been  celebrated  for  its  wine,  which  was  scarcely  of  an 
intoxicating  quality. 

"  Hie  innocentis  pocula  Lesbii 

Duces  sub  umbra  :  nee  Semeleius 

Cum  Marte  confundet  Thyoneus 

Prselia."  Hor.  Carm.  i.  17. 

For  the  qualities  of  Lesbian  wine,  see  Athenreus,  lib.  i.  c.  22.  and  Aul. 
Gellius.  xiii.  c.  5. 


CH.  I.]  DAPHNIS    AND    CHLOE.  49 

dedicated  to  his  service ;  the  lovers  naturally  enquire  who 
Cupid  is,  for,  although  they  had  felt  his  influence,  they 
were  ignorant  of  his  name.  Philetas  describes  his  power 
and  his  attributes,  and  points  out  the  remedy  for  the  pains 
he  inflicts.^ 

The  instructions  of  this  venerable  old  man  to  the  lovers 
were  sufficiently  explicit,  but,  spite  of  the  lesson  they  had 
received,  they  appear  to  have  made  very  little  advancement. 
Their  progress  was  on  one  occasion  interrupted  by  the  ar- 
rival of  certain  youths  of  Methymnaea,  who  landed  near  that 
part  of  the  island  where  Daphnis  fed  his  flocks,  in  order  to 
enjoy  the  pleasures  of  the  chase  during  vintage  [ii.  12]. 
The  twigs  by  which  the  ship  of  these  sportsmen  was  tied 
to  the  shore  had  been  eaten  through  by  some  goats,  and 
the  vessel  had  been  carried  away  by  the  tide  and  the  land 
breeze.  Its  crew  having  proceeded  up  the  country  in  search 
of  the  owner  of  the  animals,  and  not  having  found  him, 
seize  Daphnis  as  a  substitute,  and  lash  him  severely,  till 
other  shepherds  come  to  his  assistance.  Philetas  is  ap- 
pointed judge  between  Daphnis  and  the  Metlmunseans,  but 
the  latter  refusing  to  abide  by  his  decision,  which  was  un- 
favourable to  them,  are  driven  from  the  territory.  They 
return,  however,  next  day,  and  carry  off  Chloe,  with  a  great 
quantity  of  booty.  Having  landed  at  a  place  of  shelter 
which  lay  in  the  course  of  their  voyage,  they  j^ass  the  night 
in  festivity,  but  at  dawn  of  day  they  are  terrified  by  the 
unlooked-for  appearance  of  Pan,  who  threatens  them  with 
being  drowned  before  they  arrive  at  their  intended  place  of 
destination,  unless  they  set  Chloe  at  liberty  [ii.  27,  28]. 
Through  this  respectable  interposition,  Chloe  is  allowed  to 
return  home,  and  is  speedily  restored  to  the  arms  of 
Daphnis. — The  grateful  lovers  sing  hymns  to  the  nymphs. 
On  the  following  day  they  sacrifice  to  Pan,  and  hang  a  goat's 
skin  on  a  pine  adjoining  his  image.  The  feast  which  fol- 
lows this  ceremony  is  attended  by  all  the  old  shepherds  in 
the  neighbourhood,  who  recount  the  adventures  of  their 
youth,  and  their  children  dance  to  the  sound  of  the  pipe. 

The  third  book  commences  with  the  approach  of  winter, 
and  from  the  description  of  that  season  which  is  given  in 

^   «l>('X;;/ia,  Trepi^oXi),  Kat  crvi'KaTaKXiOi'jvat  yi'/M-oTr  criofinrri. 
I.  E 


50  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

the  romance,  it  would  appear  that  at  the  period  of  its  com- 
position the  temperature  of  the  Lesbian  climate  was  colder 
than  it  is  now  represented  by  travellers.  We  are  told  in  the 
pastoral,  that  early  in  winter  a  sudden  fall  of  snow  shuts 
up  all  the  roads,  the  peasants  are  confined  to  their  cottages, 
and  the  earth  nowhere  appears  except  on  the  brinks  of 
rivers,  or  sides  of  fountains.  No  one  leads  forth  his  flocks 
to  pasture ;  but  by  a  blazing  fire  some  twist  cords  for  the 
net,  some  plait  goat's  hair,  and  others  make  snares  for  the 
birds ;  the  hogs  are  fed  with  acorns  in  the  sty,  the  sheep 
with  leaves  in  the  folds,  and  the  oxen  with  chaff  in  the 
stalls. 

The  season  of  the  year  precludes  the  interviews  of 
Daphnis  and  Chloe.  They  could  no  longer  meet  in  the 
fields,  and  Daphnis  was  afraid  to  excite  suspicion  by  visit- 
ing the  object  of  his  passion  at  the  cottage  of  Dryas.  He 
ventures,  however,  to  approach  its  vicinity,  under  pretext 
of  laying  snares  for  birds  [iii.  6].^  Engaged  in  this  em- 
ployment, he  waits  a  long  time  without  any  person  appear- 
ing from  the  house.  At  length,  when  about  to  ctepart, 
Dryas  himself  comes  out  in  pursuit  of  a  dog  who  had  run 
off  with  the  family  dinner  [iii.  7].  He  perceives  Daphnis 
with  his  game,  and  accordingly,  as  a  profitable  speculation, 
invites  him  into  the  cottage.  The  birds  he  had  caught  are 
prepared  for  suj^per,  a  second  cup  is  filled,  a  new  fire  is 
kindled,  and  Daphnis  is  asked  to  remain  next  day  to  attend 
a  sacrifice  to  be  performed  to  Bacchus.  By  accepting  the 
invitation,  he  for  some  time  longer  enjoys  the  society  of 
Chloe.  The  lovers  part,  praying  for  the  revival  of  spring  ; 
but  while  the  winter  lasted,  Daphnis  frequently  visits  the 
habitation  of  Dryas. 

When  spring  returns,  Daphnis  and  Chloe  are  the  first  to 
lead  out  their  flocks  to  pasture.  Their  ardour  when  they 
meet  in  the  fields  is  increased  by  long  absence,  and  the 
season  of  the  year,  but  their  hearts  remain  innocent ; — a 
purity  which  the  author  still  imputes  not  to  virtue,  but  to 
ignorance. 

Chromis,  an  old  man  in  the  neighbourhood,  had  married 
a  young  woman  called  Lycaenium,  who  falls  in  love  with 

^  The  bird-catching  episode  occurs  also  in  the  Letters  of  Alciphron 
(iii.  30),  who  was  a  contemporary  of  Lucian.     See  Kohde,  p.  502. 


CH.  I.]  DAPHNIS    AND    CHLOE.  51 

Daphnis ;  she  becomes  acquainted  with  tlie  j^erplexity  in 
which  he  is  phiced  with  res^^ard  to  Chkx\  and  resolves  at 
once  to  gratify  her  own  passion,  and  to  free  him  from  his 
embarrassment. 

Daj^hnis,  liowever,  still  hesitates  to  practise  with  Chloe 
the  lesson  he  had  received  from  Lycaenium  ;  and  the  reader 
is  again  tired  with  the  repetition  of  preludes,  for  which  he 
can  no  longer  find  an  excuse. 

In  the  fourth  book  we  are  told  that,  towards  the  close  of 
summer,  a  fellow-servant  of  Lamon  arrives  from  Mytilene, 
to  annoimce  that  the  lord  of  the  territory  on  which  the  re- 
puted fathers  of  Daphnis  and  Chloe  pastured  their  flocks, 
would  be  with  them  at  the  approach  of  vintage. 

Lamon  prepares  ever}i:hing  for  his  reception  with  much 
assiduity,  but  bestows  particular  attention  on  the  embel- 
lishment of  a  spacious  garden  which  adjoined  his  cottage 
[iv.  2],  and  of  which  the  different  jmrts  are  described  as 
having  been  arranged  in  a  manner  fitted  to  inspire  all  the 
agreeable  emotions  which  the  art  of  gardening  can  produce. 
"  It  was,"  says  the  author,  "the  length  of  a  stadium,  and 
the  breadth  of  four  plethra,  was  in  a  lofty  situation,  and 
formed  an  oblong.  It  was  planted  with  all  sorts  of  trees  ; 
with  apples,  myrtles,  j^ears,  pomegranates,  figs,  olives,  and 
the  tall  vine,  which,  reclining  on  the  pear  and  apple  trees, 
seemed  to  vie  with  them  in  its  fruits.  Nor  were  the  forest 
trees,  as  the  plane,  the  pine,  and  the  cypress,  less  abun- 
dant. To  them  clung  not  the  vine,  but  the  ivy,  whose  large 
and  ripening  berry  emulated  the  grajDe.  These  forest  trees 
surrounded  the  fruit-bearers,  as  if  they  had  been  a  shelter 
fonned  by  art ;  and  the  whole  was  j^rotected  by  a  slight 
inclosure.  The  garden  was  divided  by  i^aths — the  stems 
of  the  trees  were  far  separated  from  each  other,  but  the 
branches  entwined  above,  formed  a  continued  arbour:  here 
too  were  beds  of  flowers,  some  of  which  the  earth  bore 
spontaneously,  while  others  were  jjroduced  by  cultiva- 
tion ; — roses,  hyacinths,  were  planted  and  tended ;  the 
ground  of  itself  yielded  the  -vdolet  and  the  narcissus.  Here 
were  shade  in  summer,  sweetness  of  flowers  in  spring,  the 
pleasures  of  vintage  in  autumn,  and  fruits  in  every  season 
of  the  year.  Hence  too  the  plain  could  be  seen,  and  flocks 
feeding ;  the  sea  also,  and  the  ships  sailing  over  it ;  so  that 


52  HISTOKY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

all  these  might  be  numbered  among  the  delights  of  the 
garden.  In  the  centre  there  was  a  temple  to  Bacchus,  and 
an  altar  erected ;  the  altar  was  girt  with  ivy — the  temple 
was  surrounded  with  palm :  within  were  represented  the 
trium^jhs  and  loves  of  the  god." 

On  this  garden  Daphnis  had  placed  his  chief  hopes  of 
conciliating  the  good-will  of  his  master,  and  through  his 
favour  of  being  united  to  Chloe ;  for  it  would  appear  the 
consent  of  parties  was  not  sufficient  for  this,  and  that  in 
Greece,  as  among  the  serfs  in  Russia,  the  finest  gratifica- 
tion of  the  heart  was  dependent  on  the  will  of  a  master. 
LamjDis,  a  cowherd,  who  had  asked  Chloe  in  marriage  from 
Dryas,  and  had  been  refused,  resolves  on  the  destruction 
of  this  garden.  Accordingly,  when  it  is  dark,  he  tears  out 
the  shrubs  by  the  roots,  and  tramples  on  the  flowers. 
Dreadful  is  the  consternation  of  Lamon,  in  beholding  on 
the  following  morning  the  havoc  that  had  been  made 
[iv.  7].  Towards  evening  his  terror  is  increased  by  the 
appearance  of  Eudromus,  one  of  his  master's  servants, 
who   gives  notice  that  he  would  be  with  them  in  three 


Astylus  (the  son  of  Dionysoj^hanes,  proj^rietor  of  the 
territory)  arrives  first,  and  promises  to  obtain  pardon  from 
his  father  of  the  mischance  that  had  happened  to  the 
garden.  Astylus  is  accompanied  by  a  parasite,  Gnatho, 
who  is  smitten  with  a  friendship,  a  la  Grecque,  for  Daphnis  : 
this  having  come  to  the  knowledge  of  Lamon,  who  over- 
hears the  parasite  ask  and  obtain  Daphnis  as  a  page  from 
Astvlus,  he  conceives  it  incumbent  on  him  to  reveal  to 
Dionysophanes,  who  had  by  this  time  arrived,  the  mysteries 
attending  the  infancy  of  Daphnis.  He  at  the  same  time 
produces  the  ornaments  he  had  found  with  the  child,  on 
which  Dionysophanes  instantly  recognizes  his  son.  Having 
married  early  in  youth,  he  had  a  daughter  and  two  sons, 
but  being  a  prudent  man,  and  satisfied  with  this  stock,  he 
had  exposed  his  fourth  child,  Daphnis ;  a  measure  which ' 
had  become  somewhat  less  expedient,  as  his  daughter  and 
one  of  his  sons  died  immediately  after  on  the  same  day,  and 
Astylus  alone  survived. 

The  change  in  the  situation  of  Daphnis  does  not  alter  his 
attachment  to   Chloe.     He  begs  her  in  marriage  of  his 


CH.  I.]  DAPHNIS    AND    CHLOE.  63 

father,  who,  beintc  informed  of  the  circumstances  of  her 
infancy,  invites  all  the  distinfT^uished  persons  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood to  a  festival,  at  which  the  articles  of  dress  found 
along-  with  Chloe  are  exhibited.  This  was  not  his  own 
scheme,  but  had  been  suggested  to  him  in  a  dream  by  the 
nymphs ;  for  in  the  pastoral  of  Longus,  as  in  most  other 
Greek  romances,  the  characters  are  only 

Tunc  recta  scientes  cum  nil  scii*e  valent. 

The  success  of  this  device  fully  answers  expectation ;  Chloe 
being  acknowledged  as  his  daughter  by  Magacles,  one  of 
the  guests,  who  was  now  in  a  prosperous  condition,  but 
rivalling  his  friend  Dionysophanes  in  paternal  tenderness, 
had  exposed  his  child  while  in  difficulties.  There  being 
now  no  farther  obstacle  to  the  union  of  Daphnis  and  Chloe, 
their  marriage  is  solemnized  with  rustic  pomp,  and  they 
lead  through  the  rest  of  their  days  a  happy  and  a  pastoral 
life. 

In  some  respects  a  prose  romance  is  better  adapted  than 
the  eclogue  or  drama  to  pastoral  composition.  The  eclogue 
is  confined  within  narrow  limits,  and  must  terminate  before 
interest  can  be  excited.  A  series  of  Bucolics,  where  two  or 
more  shepherds  are  introduced  contending  for  the  reward  of 
a  crook  or  a  kid,  and  at  most  descanting  for  a  short  while 
on  similar  topics,  resembles  a  collection  of  the  first  scenes 
of  a  number  of  comedies,  of  which  the  commencement  can 
only  be  listened  to  as  unfolding  the  subsequent  action. 
The  drama  is,  no  doubt,  a  better  form  of  pastoral  writing 
than  detached  eclogues,  but  at  the  same  time  does  not  well 
accord  with  rustic  manners  and  description.  In  dramatic 
composition,  the  representation  of  strong  passions  is  best 
calculated  to  produce  interest  or  emotion,  but  the  feelings 
of  rural  existence  should  be  painted  as  tranquil  and  calm. 
In  choosing  a  prose  romance  as  the  vehicle  of  jiastoral 
writing,  Longus  has  adopted  a  form  that  may  include  all 
the  beauties  arising  from  the  description  of  rustic  manners, 
or  the  scenery  of  nature,  and  which,  as  far  as  the  incidents 
of  rural  life  admit,  may  interest  by  an  an  agreeable  fable, 
and  dehght  by  a  judicious  alternation  of  narrative  and 
dialogue. 

Longus  has  also  avoided  many  of  the  faults  into  which 


54  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

his  modem  imitators  have  fallen,  and  wliicli  have  brought 
this  style  of  composition  into  so  mnch  disrepute;  his 
characters  never  express  the  conceits  of  affected  gallan- 
try, nor  involve  themselves  in  abstract  reasoning ;  and  he 
has  not  loaded  his  romance  with  those  long  and  constantly 
recurring  episodes,  which  in  the  Diana  of  Montemayor,  and 
the  Astrea  of  D'Urfe,  fatigue  the  attention  and  render  us 
indiiferent  to  the  23rinci2)al  story.  Nor  does  he  paint  that 
chimerical  state  of  society,  termed  the  golden  age,  in  which 
the  characteristic  traits  of  rural  life  are  erased,  but  at- 
tempts to  please  by  a  genuine  imitation  of  Nature,  and  by 
descriptions  of  the  manners,  the  rustic  occupations,  or  rural 
enjoyments,  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  country  where  the 
scene  of  the  pastoral  is  laid. 

Huet,  who  seems  to  have  considered  the  chief  merit  of  a 
romance  to  consist  in  commencing  in  the  middle  of  the 
story,  has  remarked,  I  think  unjustly,  that  it  is  a  great  de- 
fect in  the  plan  of  this  pastoral,  that  it  begins  with  the  in- 
fancy of  the  hero  and  heroine,  and  carries  on  the  story 
beyond  the  period  of  their  marriage.^  The  author  might, 
perhaps,  have  been  blameable  had  he  dwelt  long  on  these 
periods  ;  but,  in  fact,  the  romance  concludes  with  the  nup- 
tials of  Daphnis  and  Chloe  ;  and  the  reader  is  merely  told 
in  a  few  lines  that  they  lived  a  pastoral  life,  and  had  a  son 
and  daughter.  Nor,  if  the  reader  be  interested  in  the 
characters  of  the  preceding  story,  is  it  unpleasant  for  him 
to  hear  in  general  terms,  when  it  comes  to  an  end,  how 
these  persons  passed  their  lives,  and  whether  their  fortune 
was  stable.  I  do  not  see  that  in  a  pastoral  romance,  even 
a  more  ample  descrij^tion  of  conjugal  felicity  would  have 
been  so  totally  disgusting  as  the  critic  seems  to  imagine  ; 
far  less  is  an  account  of  the  childhood  of  the  characters 
objectionable,  even  where  it  is  more  minute  than  that  given 
by  Longus. 

^  "  L'economie  mal  entendue  de  sa  fable  est  un  defaut  encore  phis 
essentiel.  II  commence  grossierement,  a  la  naissance  de  ses  bergers, 
et  ne  finit  pas  meme  a  leur  mariage.  II  etend  sa  narration  jusq'  a  leurs 
enfants  et  a  leur  vieillessc ; "  and  again,  "  C'est  sortir  entierement  du 
vrai  caractere  de  cette  espece  d'ecrits :  il  les  faut  finir  au  jour  des 
noces,  et  se  taire  sur  les  suites  du  mariagt  Une  heroine  de  Roman 
grosse  et  accouchee  est  un  etrange  personnage.'" — Huet,  de  I'Origine  des 
Eomans. 


CH.  I.]  DAPHNIS    AND    CHLOE.  65 

The  pastoral  is  in  general  very  beautifully  written  ; — the 
style,  tliou<]^li  it  lias  l)een  censured  on  account  of  the  reite- 
ration of  the  same  forms  of  expression,  and  as  betrayino; 
the  sophist  in  some  passages  by  a  play  on  words,  and 
affected  antithesis,  is  considered  as  the  purest  specimen  of 
the  Greek  language  produced  in  that  late  period  ;  ^  the  de- 
scriptions of  rural  scenery  and  rural  occupations  are  ex- 
tremely pleasing,  and,  if  I  may  use  the  expression,  there  is. 
a  sort  of  amenity  and  calm  diffused  over  the  whole  romance. 
This,  indeed,  may  be  considered  as  the  chief  excellence  in  a 
pastoral ;  since  we  are  not  so  much  allured  by  the  feeding 
of  sheep  as  by  the  stillness  of  the  country.  In  all  our  active 
pursuits,  the  end  i^roposed  is  tranquillity,  and  even  when 
we  lose  the  hope  of  happiness,  we  are  attracted  by  that  of 
repose  ; — hence  we  are  soothed  and  delighted  with  its  re- 
presentation, and  fancy  we  partake  of  the  pleasure. 

In  some  respects,  however,  this  romance,  although  its 
excellencies  are  many,  is  extremely  defective.  It  displays 
little  variety,  except  what  arises  from  the  vicissitude  of  the 
seasons.  The  courtsliip  of  Daphnis  is  to  the  last  degree 
monotonous,  and  the  conversations  between  the  lovers  ex- 
tremely insipid.  The  mythological  tales  also  are  totally 
uninteresting,  and  sometimes  not  very  happily  introduced." 

Although  the  general  moral  attempted  to  be  inculcated 
in  the  romance  is  not  absolutely  bad,  yet  there  are  par- 
ticular passages  so  extremely  reprehensible,  that  I  know 
nothing  like  them  in  almost  any  work  whatever.''     This  de- 

^  *'  Son  style  est  simple,  aise,  nature!,  et  concls  sans  obscurlte ;  ses  ex- 
pressions sont  pleine  de  vivacite  et  de  feu,  il  produit  avec  esprit,  il  peint 
avcc  agreraent,  et  dispose  ses  images  avec  adresse." — De  I'Orig.  des  Kom. 

"Longi  oratio  pura,  Candida,  suavis,  mutis  articulis  mombrisque  con- 
cisa  et  tamen  numerosa,  sine  ullis  salibus  melle  dulcior  proHuit,  tanquam 
amnis  argenteus  virentibus  utrinque  sylvis  inumbratus  ;  et  ita  florens, 
its  picta,  ita  expolita  est  ut  in  ea,  verborum  omnes,  omnes  sententiarum 
illigentur  lopores.  Translationes  caeteraque  dicendi  lumina  ita  aptedis- 
ponit  ut  pictures  colorum  varietatem." — Villoisnn,  Frooem  to  his  ed. 
1778.  Longus  is  also  called  by  Muretus,  '•  dulcissimus  ac  suavissimus 
scriptor  "  (var.  lect.  9,  16);  and  by  Scaliger,  '' auctor  ama?nistimus,  et 
eo  melior  quo  simplieior  "  (Miscell.  c.  2). 

-  See  Koraes,  Heliodorus,  p.  13. 

^  This  seems  somewhat  exaggerated  blame.  There  are  certainly  no 
passa^res  in  this  tale  to  be  compared  with  many  in,  for  instance,  the 
Metamorphoses  of  Apuleius,  and  in  many  other  works  which  Dunlop 
must  have  x-ead  before  writing  this  history. — H.  Jenner. 


56  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

pravity  is  tlie  less  excusable,  as  it  was  the  j^rofessed  design 
of  the  author  to  paint  a  state  of  the  most  perfect  innocence. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  pastoral  of  Longus  had 
a  considerable  influence  on  the  style  and  incidents  of  the 
subsequent  Greek  romances,  particularly  those  of  Eusta- 
thius  ^  and  Theodorus  Prodromus ; "  but  its  effects  on 
modern  pastorals,  particularly  those  which  appeared  in 
Italy  during  the  sixteenth  century,  is  a  subject  of  more 
difficulty.  Huet  is  of  opinion,  that  it  was  not  only  the 
model  of  the  Astrea  of  D'Urfe,  and  the  Diana  of  Monte- 
mayor,  but  gave  rise  to  the  Italian  dramatic  pastoral. 
This  opinion  is  combated  by  Villoison,  on  the  grounds  that 
the  first  edition  of  Longus  was  not  published  till  1598,^ 
and  that  Tasso  died  in  the  year  1595.  It  is  true  that  the 
first  Greek  edition  of  Longus  was  not  jDublished  till  1598, 
but  there  was  a  French  translation  by  Amyot,  which  ap- 
peared in  1559,  and  one  in  Latin  verse  by  G-ambara  in 
1569,  either  of  which  might  have  been  seen  by  Tasso.  But 
although  this  argument  brought  forward  by  Villoison  ^  be 
of  little  avail,  he  is  probably  right  in  the  general  notion  he 
has  adopted,  that  Daphnis  and  Chloe  was  not  the  origin  of 
the  pastoral  drama.  The  Sacrificio  of  Agostino  Beccari, 
which  was  the  earliest  specimen  of  this  style  of  composi- 
tion, and  was  acted  at  Ferrara  in  1554,  was  written  pre- 
vious to  the  appearance  of  any  edition  or  version  of  Longus. 
Nor  is  there  any  similarity  in  the  story  or  incidents  of  the 
Aminta  to  those  in  Daphnis  and  Chloe,  which  should  lead 
us  to  imagine  that  the  Greek  romance  had  been  imitated 
by  Tasso. 

It  bears,  however,  a  stronger  likeness  to  the  more  recent 
dramatic  pastorals  of  Italy.  These  are  frequently  founded 
on  the  exposure  of  children,  who,  after  being  brought  up  as 
shepherds  by  reputed  fathers,  are  discovered  by  their  real 
parents  by  means  of  tokens  fastened  to  them  when  they 

1  See  pp.  77,  etc. 

2  Theodorus  Prodromus  lived  in  the  first  half  of  the  twelfth  century, 
and  wrote  a  romance  entitled,  The  Loves  of  Dorante  and  Dosicles. 

^  By  Colombanus  in  Florence.  The  editor  states  it  Avas  printed  from 
a  MS.  which  he  procured  from  the  library  of  Luigi  Alamanni,  and 
which  was  compared  by  one  of  the  editor's  friends,  Fulvius  Ursinus, 
with  a  MS.  at  Rome,  and  the  various  readings  transmitted  to  him. 

^  In  Introduction  to  his  edition  of  Longus.     Paris,  1778. 


CH.  I.]  DAPHNIS    AND    CHLOE.  57 

are  abandoned.  There  is  also  a  considerable  resemblance 
between  the  story  of  Daplinis  and  Chloe  and  that  of  the 
Gentle  Shej)herd :  the  plot  was  suggested  to  Ramsay  l)y 
one  of  his  friends,  who  seems  to  have  taken  it  from  the 
Greek  pastoral.  Marmontel,  too,  in  his  Annette  and  Lubin, 
has  imitated  the  simplicity  and  inexperience  of  the  lovers 
of  Longns.'  But  of  all  modem  writers  the  author  who  has 
most  closely  followed  this  romance  is  Gessner.  In  his 
Idylls  there  is  the  same  poetical  prose,  the  same  beautiful 
rural  descriptions,  and  the  same  innocence  and  simplicity 
in  the  rustic  characters.  In  his  pastoral  of  Daphnis,  the 
scene  of  which  is  laid  in  Greece,  he  has  painted,  like 
Longus,  the  early  and  innocent  attachment  of  a  shepherdess 
and  swain,  and  has  only  embellished  his  picture  by  the  in- 
cidents that  arise  from  rural  occupations,  and  the  revolu- 
tions of  the  year. 

AVe  shall  conclude  this  article  with  remarking,  that  the 
story  of  Daphnis  and  Chloe  is  related  in  the  person  of  the 
author.  He  feigns,  that  while  hunting  in  Lesbos,  he  saw 
in  a  grove  consecrated  to  the  nymphs  a  most  beautiful 
picture,  in  which  appeared  children  exposed,  lovers  plight- 
ing their  faith,  and  incursions  of  pirates — that,  having 
found  an  interpreter  of  this  painting,  he  had  expressed  in 
"writing  what  it  represented,  and  produced  a  gift  to  Cupid, 
to  Pan,  and  the  nymphs  ;  but  which  would  be  pleasing  to 
all  men,  a  medicine  to  the  sick,  a  solace  to  the  afflicted, 
which  would  remind  him,  who  had  felt  the  jDOwer  of  love, 
of  his  sweetest  enjoyments,  and  teach  the  inexperienced  the 
nature  and  hapj^iness  of  that  passion. 

Although  the  work  of  Longus  was  much  admired  by  his 
contemporaries,  and  although  many  of  the  incidents  were 
adopted  in  the  fictitious  narratives  by  which  it  was  suc- 
ceeded, none  of  the  subsequent  Greek  fablers  attempted  to 
write  pastoral  romance,  but  chose  Heliodorus,  or  rather 
Tatius,  as  their  model. 

^  So  also  has  Bernardine  de  St.  Pierre  in  Paul  et  Virginia.  See 
SchoU's  Hist,  de  la  litt.  o:recque,  iii.  161,  and  an  article  upon  the 
"  collection  des  romans  grecs  traduit  en  trangais  ;  avee  dcs  notes,  par 
MM.  Courier,  Larcher,  et  autres  Hellenistes,  Paris,  1822,"  etc.  in  the 
Foreign  Quarterly  Keview,  vol.  v.  p.  135.  Perhaps,  too,  there  is 
sufficient  resemblance  to  warrant  the  mention  in  the  same  connection 
of  Goethe's  "  Hermann  and  Dorothea  "  and  Longfellow's  "  Evangeline." 


58  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

Chariton,  tlie  earliest  of  these  imitators,  has  been  con- 
sidered as  inferior  to  Tatius  in  point  of  style,  in  which  he 
exhibits  a  good  deal  of  the  sophist,  but  he  far  excels  him 
in  the  probability  and  simplicity  of  his  incidents — he  also 
surpasses  him  in  the  general  conduct  of  his  work,  since,  as 
the  romance  advances,  the  interest  increases  to  the  end,  and 
the  fate  of  the  characters  is  carefully  concealed  till  the 
conclusion.  Nor  is  it  loaded  with  those  episodes  and 
lengthened  descriptions  which  encumber  the  Clitophon  and 
Leucippe  of  Tatius.  The  author  is  also  more  careful  than 
his  predecessor  not  to  violate  probability,  and  seems  anxious 
to  preserve  an  appearance  of  historical  fidelity. 

A  considerable  part  of  the  commencement  of  the 

Chaereas  and  Callieehoe  ^ 

of  Chariton  has  been  lost,  and  the  first  incident  we  now 
meet  with  is  the  marriage  of  the  hero  and  heroine.  The 
other  suitors  of  Callirrhoe,  enraged  at  the  preference  given 
to  Chaereas,  contrive  to  make  him  jealous  of  his  wife.  In 
a  transport  of  passion  he  kicks  her  so  violently  that  she 
swoons,  and  is  believed  dead  [i.  5].  This  incident  is  one 
of  the  worst  imagined,  to  be  met  with  in  any  of  the  Greek 
romances.  It  leaves  such  an  impression  of  the  brutality  of 
the  principal  character,  that  we  are  not  reconciled  to  him 
by  all  his  subsequent  grief  and  diligent  search  after  Callir- 

^  XapiTiovoQ  ' k(ppodiadi>)Q  tu)V  Trepi  Xaipsav  Kai  Ka\\ippot]v  Ipwriicu)}' 
dfnyrjfxdTiov  Xoyoi  i).  Chariton  Aphrodisiensis  is  as  little  known  as  the  other 
writers  of  Greek  romance.  Indeed,  it  has  been  suspected  by  some,  that 
his  graceful  name  is  entirely  fictitious ;  by  others  it  has  been  conjectm-ed 
that  he  was  born  at  Aphrodisia,  a  city  in  Caria,  and  it  is  supposed,  from 
the  imperfection  of  his  style,  that  the  author,  whoever  he  was,  existed 
posterior  to  the  age  of  Heliodorus  or  Tatius.  His  romance  was  published 
at  Amsterdam,  1750,  by  D'Orville,  from  a  copy,  taken  by  his  friend 
Antonio  Cocchi,  of  a  MS.  found  in  a  monastery  at  Florence.  The  Latin 
translation  by  Eeiskius  is  executed  with  uncommon  spirit  and  fidelity. 
The  romance  itself  consists  of  144  pages,  and  the  notes  added  by 
d'Orville  occupy  788.  "  Charitonis  contextum,"  says  he,  "^x««m  ubi 
opus  videbatur  illustrandum  duxi."  The  trouble  the  commentator  has 
taken  is  the  more  extraordinary,  as  he  seems  to  have  entertained  but  an 
indifferent  opinion  of  the  merit  of  the  romance,  "  et  vere  dicere  licet, 
Charitonem  potius  insignibus  vitiis  carere,  quam  magnis  virtutibus  esse 
commendabilem.  In  1753,  there  appeared  an  Italian  translation,  through 
the  medium  of  which  the  English  one  (Lond.  1764)  has  been  executed. 


CH.  I.]       CHARITON — CHAEREAS    AND    CALLIRRHOE.  59 

rlioe ; — our  disgust  might  perhaps  have  been  lessened,  had 
tlie  author  made  him  employ  a  dagger  or  poison. 

After  her  supposed  death,  Callirrhoe  is  buried  along 
with  a  great  quantity  of  treasure.  It  was  customary  in 
Greece  that  effects  of  a  value  proportioned  to  the  rank  of 
the  deceased  should  be  deposited  in  tombs.  It  is  men- 
tioned in  Strabo,  [1.  8,  c.  6],  that  the  persons  who  were 
sent  by  Caesar  to  colonize  Corinth,  left  no  tomb  unexplored ; 
ovceva  Ta(j)ov  aaKivu)m]Tov ; — an  anecdote  which  evinces  the 
existence  of  that  species  of  depredation  which  forms  a  lead- 
ing incident  in  this  and  so  many  of  the  other  Greek 
romances.^  Callirrhoe  revives  soon  after  her  interment, 
and  at  tliis  critical  moment,  Theron,  a  pirate,  who  had 
witnessed  the  concealment  of  the  treasure  [i.  7],  breaks 
open  the  sepulchre,  which  was  placed  near  the  shore,  and 
sets  sail  with  the  booty  and  Callirrhoe  [i.  11].  At  Miletus 
he  sells  her  to  Dionysius,  an  Ionian  prince,  who  soon  be- 
comes enamoured  of  his  slave  [ii.  3] .  Chariton  is  the  first 
writer  of  romance  who  has  introduced  an  interesting  male 
character.  Dionysius  is  represented  geaerous,  learned, 
valiant,  and  tender  ; — nor  was  there  any  thing  improper  in 
his  attachment  to  Calhrrhoe,  as  she  disclosed  the  nobleness 
of  her  birth,  but  concealed  that  she  was  the  wife  of  an- 
other ; — he  makes  love  to  her  with  all  possible  delicacy,  and 
imposes  no  restraint  on  her  inclinations.  Callirrhoe,  hav- 
ing already  one  husband,  feels  some  scruples  at  accepting  a 
second ;  but  at  length  agrees  to  espouse  Dionysius,  with 
the  view  of  giving  a  nominal  father  to  the  child  of  which 
she  was  pregnant  [ii.  11]. 

The  following  portion  of  the  romance  is  occupied  with 
the  attempts  of  Mithridates,  satraj)  of  Caria,  to  obtain  pos- 
session of  Callirrhoe  [iv.  3],  for  whom  he  had  conceived  a 
violent  affection — the  search  made  by  Chaereas  for  his  wife 
after  discovering  that  she  was  innocent,  and  yet  alive  [iii. 
4] — and  his  arrival  in  Asia  to  reclaim  her  from  Dionvsius 
[iv.  4]. 

^  See  in  this  connei-tion  the  seventy-six  epigrams  of  St.  Gregory 
Nazianzen  against  the  despoilers  of  the  dead.  (Anth.  Gr.  viii.  179-254.) 
— Lieb.  This  episode  of  the  plundering  of  the  tomb  has  been  bor- 
rowed (according  to  Kohde)  by  Chariton.  (See  his  Romance,  next  de- 
scribed.) 


60  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

At  length  all  parties  are  summoned  to  Babylon,  to  main- 
tain their  canse  before  Artaxerxes.  Mithridates  and  Chae- 
reas  appear  first,  and  afterwards  Dionysius  arrives,  accom- 
panied by  Callirrhoe  [v.  3].  There  is  no  part  of  the 
romance  so  unnatural  as  the  account  of  the  extraordinary 
effects  produced  by  the  beauty  of  Callirrhoe  on  the  be- 
holders at  Babylon,  and  the  regions  through  which  she 
passed  on  her  journey ;  but  after  her  arrival,  the  flattery 
which  we  may  suppose  paid  to  a  despot  in  an  eastern  court, 
by  satraps  and  eunuchs,  is  finely  touched  [vi.  3]  ;  and  the 
meeting  of  Chaereas  with  Callirrhoe  in  the  palace,  while 
the  cause  is  under  cognizance,  is  happily  imagined.  Ar- 
taxerxes, as  was  to  be  expected,  having  become  enamoured 
of  the  object  of  dispute,  defers  giving  any  decision,  in  order 
to  protract  her  stay  in  Babylon  [vi.  2] .  Accounts,  mean- 
while, arrive  of  a  revolt  of  the  EgyjDtians,  and  their  inva- 
sion of  Syria.  The  king,  accompanied  by  Dionysius,  pro- 
ceeds against  them,  and,  according  to  the  custom  of  the 
Persian  monarchs,  takes  the  ladies  of  the  court,  among 
whom  Callirrhoe  was  now  numbered,  along  with  him  [vi. 
9] .  But,  as  they  are  found  to  be  cumbersome  on  the  march, 
they  are  left  at  Ardo,  an  island  at  a  short  distance  from  the 
continent  [vii.  4].  Chaereas,  exasperated  by  a  false  report 
that  the  king  had  bestowed  Callirrhoe  on  Dionysius  [vii.  1], 
joins  the  Egyptian  forces,  takes  Tyre  by  stratagem  [vii.  4f\, 
and,  in  consideration  of  his  talents  as  a  general,  is  appointed 
to  command  the  fleet  [vii.  5] .  Having  destroyed  the  Per- 
sian navy  soon  after  his  elevation,  in  a  great  battle  which 
was  fought  near  Arado,  he  takes  possession  of  the  island, 
and  recovers  Callirrhoe  [viii.  1].  In  the  course  of  the 
night  succeeding  the  day  which  had  been  so  jjropitious  to 
the  love  and  glory  of  Chaereas,  a  messenger  arrives  at 
Arado  with  accounts  of  the  total  overthrow  of  the  Egyptian 
army,  which  had  been  chiefly  effected  by  the  skill  and 
valour  of  Dionysius  [vii.  5].  To  him  Callirrhoe  writes  a 
very  handsome  letter,  and  returns  vdth  Chaereas  to  Syra- 
cuse [viii.  6]. 

About  the  time  of  Chariton,  there  lived  three  persons  of 
the  name  of  Xenophon,^  each  of  whom  wrote  a  romance. 

•  Peerlkanip  (in  his  edition  of  Xenophon,  the  Ephesian,  Harlemi, 
1818)  is  of  opinion  that  this  name,  as  well  as  those  of  Achilles,  Tatius, 


CH.  I.]  HABROCOMAS    AND    ANTHIA.  61 

These  authors  were  distint^uished  by  the  names  of  Antio- 
chenus,  Cyprius,  and  Ephesius.  Antioeheniis,  in  imitation 
of  lamMiehus,  called  his  romance,  Babylonica  :  '  the 
second  Xenoj^hon  entitled  his  work,  (which  relates  the 
loves  of  Cinyras,  Myrrha,  and  Adonis,)  Cypriaca. 

The  Ephesiaca  (which  alone  is  known  to  us,)  consists  of 
ten  books,  and  comprehends  the  loves  of 

Habrocomas  and  Anthia.- 

In  this  work  the  incidents  are  extremely  similar  to  those 
that  occur  in  the  preceding  romances.  The  hero  and  heroine 
become  enamoured  in  the  temple  of  Diana  [i.  c.  2,  3] ;  they 
are  married  early  in  the  work,  but  in  obedience  to  an  oracle 
of  Apollo,  are  forced  by  their  parents  to  travel,  and  in  the 
course  of  their  wanderings  experience  the  accustomed  ad- 
ventures with  robbers  and  pirates.  On  one  occasion  Anthia, 
when  separated  from  her  husband  by  a  series  of  misfor- 
tunes, falls  into  the  hands  of  banditti  [ii.  11],  from  whom 
she  is  rescued  by  a  young  nobleman,  named  Perilaus,  who 
becomes  enamoured  of  her.  Anthia,  fearing  violence, 
affects  a  consent  to  marry  him  [ii,  13]  ;  but  on  the  arrival 
of  the  appointed  time  swallows  a  soporific  draught  ^  which 
she  had  procured  from  a  physician   [iii.  6],  who  was  the 

Longus,  and  Chariton,  were  assumed.  (Mueller,  Hist.  Gr.  Lit.  iii. 
p.  354.) 

'  According  to  Peerlkarap  (p.  66),  the  names  /3a;3vXwi'i/ca  and  KVTrpiaKa 
were  given  to  the  romances  of  the  two  other  Xenophons,  from  the  birth- 
place of  the  principal  characters.  The  information  respecting  these 
authors  is  derived  from  Suidas.  This  system  of  nomenclature  is  very 
common  in  Greek  romances;  cf.  ^thiopica  of  Heliodorus,  Lesbioca  of 
Longus  (Daphnis  and  Chloe),  Babylonica  of  lamblichus.etc. — II.  Jenner. 

^  'E<ptaiaKd  tci  Kara  'Ai'Oiai>  kui  'AppoKonriv ;  or  rather  Jive  books. 
The  number  given  in  the  text  is  taken  from  Huet,  in  whose  time  the 
romance  was.  for  the  most  part,  only  known  from  Suidas,  who  certainly 
gives  ten  books.  Angelo  Poliziano,  in  his  Liber.  Miscell.,  ch.  Ii.,  had 
already  mentioned  the  work;  and  in  1723  an  Italian  translation  ap- 
peared. The  Greek  was  first  printed  in  1726.  (See  also  Chardon  dela 
Rochette.  Melanges,  etc.,  p.  7U,  and  Peerlkamp's  edition  of  Xenophon.) 
Peerlkamp  suggests  that  under  ten  books  Suidas  included  another  work 
by  Xenophon. — H.  Jennkk. 

^  On  Soporifics,  see  note  to  Massuccio  di  Salerno's  third  novel,  in 
vol.  ii. 


62  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

friend  of  Perilaus,  and  to  whom  slie  had  hitrusted  the 
secret  of  her  story.  Much  lamentation  is  made  for  her 
death,  and  she  is  conveyed  with  great  pomp  to  a  sepulchre. 
As  she  had  only  drunk  a  sleeping  potion,  she  soon  awakes 
in  the  tomb,  which  is  plundered  by  pirates  for  the  sake  of 
the  treasure  it  contained  [iii.  8].^ 

Mr.  Douce,  in  his  Illustrations  of  Shakspeare,  has  pointed 
out  the  resemblance  between  this  adventure  and  the  lead- 
ing incident  of  the  tragedy  of  Romeo  and  Juliet.  The 
Ephesiaca,  he  acknowledges,  was  not  published  at  the  time 
when  Luigi  da  Porto  wi'ote  the  novel,  supposed  to  be 
Shakspeare' s  original,  but  he  thinks  it  very  probable  he 
had  met  with  the  manuscript  of  the  Greek  romance.' 

Throughout  the  work  the  author  of  the  Ephesiaca  seems 
to  think  it  necessary  that  every  woman  who  sees  Habro- 
comas,  should  fall  in  love  with  him,  and  that  all  the  male 
characters  should  become  enamoured  of  Anthia.  The  story 
also  is  extremely  complicated ;  and  a  remark  which  was- 
formerly  made  respecting  Heliodorus  may  be  applied  with, 
double  force  to  Xenophon  ;  the  changes  of  fortune  in  his 
romance  are  too  numerous,  and  too  much  of  the  same 
nature.  Xenophon,  however,  has  received  much  commen- 
dation from  the  critics,  for  the  elegance  of  his  style,  which 
is  said  to  bear  a  strong  resemblance  to  that  of  Longus,  and 
is  declared  by  Politian  to  be  smooth  as  that  of  a  more  re- 
nowned Xenoj^hon.  "  Sic  utique  Xenophon  scribit,  non 
quidem  Atheniensis  ille,  sed  alter  eo  non  insuavior  Ephe- 
sius."— (Polit.  Misc.  c.  15.)  ' 

1  See  Lapaume  (Pra?f.  ad  Erot.  de  Apoll,  Tyr.  Fab.  p.  603).  Other 
incidents  recall  Heliodorus.  Habrocomas  is  saved  from  the  already 
ignited  pyre  (iv.  2)  in  a  miraculous  way  5  and  Chariclea  (viii.  9)  is 
saved  by  similar  agency  (see  p.  27) ;  cf.  Parthenius,  5,  Muller  Fr. 
Hist.  i.  p.  41.  Cases  of  Divine  interposition  in  similar  situations  are  re- 
corded in  the  acts  of  the  Christian  martyrs  {e.g.  Acta  Pauli  et  Theclse, 
c.  22),  and  reports  of  these  marvels  may  have  been  seized  by  the  nove- 
lists as  matter  for  their  compositions.     (See  the  Propugnatore,  vi.) 

2  Eecent  criticism  does  not  coincide  in  this  view.  (See  inf^ra,  Mas- 
succio  di  Salerno's  third  novel). 

^  Eohde  (p.  401),  on  the  other  hand,  judges  it  for  the  most  part  curt 
and  bald,  as  if  a  mere  outline  or  abstract  of  a  narrative  had  been  jotted 
down.  Chassang,  following  Koraes,  considers  its  triviality  indicates 
the  period  of  decadence  as  near  the  date  of  the  author;  while  Eohde 
(p.  390-404),  from  his  description  of  the  Temple  of  Diana  of  Ephesus, 


CH.  I.]  HABROCOMAS    AND    ANTHIA.  63 

After  the  age  iu  which  Chariton  and  the  Xeiiophous  are 
supposed  to  have  lived,  more  thau  three  centuries  elapsed 
without  the  production  of  any  fictitious  narrative  deserving 
attention.  The  first  romance  that  appeared  at  the  end  of 
this  louLC  interval,  was  of  a  totally  different  nature  from 
those  which  preceded  it.  The  love  it  breathes  is  not  of  an 
earthly,  but  a  heavenly  nature ;  and  its  incidents  consist 
not  in  the  adventures  of  heroes,  but  the  sufferings  of 
martyrs. 

In  the  times  which  succeeded  the  earliest  ages  of  Chris- 
tianity, the  spirit  of  the  new  religion  appears  to  have  been 
but  imperfectly  luiderstood  by  many  of  its  most  zealous 
ministers ;  and  it  is  to  the  dispassionate  investigation  of 
modern  times,  that  we  are  indebted  for  the  restoration  of 
its  i^rimitive  simplicity  and  piu'ity. 

As  the  first  corruption  of  the  doctrines  of  Christianity 
was  owing  to  the  eastern  gnostics,  so,  with  the  Therapeidce, 
and  other  oriental  sects,  was  developed  the  notion  that 
the  renimciation  of  the  Creator's  bounties  in  this  world 
is  the  best  title  to  an  immeasurable  beatitude  in  the 
next.^ 

With  a  view  of  promoting  a  taste  for  monastic  seclusion, 
St.  John  of  Damascus  (a  monk  of  Syria,  who  lived  in  the 
eight  centiu-y,  during  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Leo  Isau- 
ricus,)  appears  to  have  written  his  Lives  of 


laid  waste  with  the  city  in  a.d.  263,  and  of  which  no  mention  is  fonnd 
subsequent  to  about  235,  and  from  other  interna]  evidence  is  inclined  to 
place  him  somewhere  about  the  end  of  the  second  century,  and  between 
lamblichus  and  Heliodorus,  and  earlier  than  Chariton.  It  may  further 
be  observed  that  the  toleration  of  unnatural  love  in  Habrocomas  and 
Anthia  as  in  Leucippe  and  Clitophon,  and  in  Daphnis  and  Chloe,  would 
seem  to  stamp  them  as  essentially  pagan  works,  and  refer  them  to  an 
earlier  period  than  Chaereas  and  Callirrhoe,  Hysmine  and  Hysminias, 
of  Eumathius  Macrembolites  (published  by  Hirschig),  and  the  History 
of  ApoUonius  of  Tyre,  in  which  no  trace  of  this  vice  is  found,  doubtless 
in  deference  to  the  growing  influence  of  Christianity. 

Rohde  (p.  398)  remarks  that  Xenophon  of  Ephesus  is  the  first  extant 
romancist  who  has  confined  the  scene  of  his  nai-rative  to  Egypt,  Asia 
Minor,  and  a  few  districts  in  Italia  Inferior  and  Sicily,  and  is  inclined 
to  discern  in  this  restriction  to  some  of  the  best  civilized  provinces  of  the 
Roman  Empire,  a  tendency  to  eschew  the  fantastic  in  favour  of  the 
civilian  romance. 

^  See  Migne,  Dictionnaire  d'Ascetisme,  sub  voce  The'rapeutes. 


64  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 


Baelaam  and  Josaphat/ 

He  states  that  the  incidents  liad  been  told  to  him  by 
certain  pious  Ethiopians,  by  which  he  means  Indians,  who 
had  found  them  related  by  engravings  on  tablets  of  un- 
suspected veracity. 

^  'laTopia  -ipvxd^sXijQ  k.t.X.  Iv  y  o  jiioQ  fSapXacifi  km  Ioj(ra<p,  first  pub- 
lished in  Greek  bj  Boissonade,  Paris,  1829.  There  are  at  least  two 
Latin  editions  of  the  fifteenth  century.  At  Bagdad,  at  the  court  of  that 
Khalif  Almansur,  where  Abdallah  ibn  Almokaffa  translated  the  fables 
of  Kalila  and  Dimna  from  Persian  into  Arabic,  there  lived  a  Christian, 
by  name  Sergius,  who  was  for  many  j^ears  high  treasurer  to  the  Khalif. 
His  son,  to  whom  he  gave  the  best  education  then  to  be  had — his  chief 
tutor  being  Cosmas,  an  Italian  monk,  who  had  been  captured  and  sold 
as  a  slave  by  the  Saracens — upon  the  death  of  Sergius  succeeded  him 
for  some  time  as  the  Khalif's  chief  councillor ;  but  suddenly,  influenced, 
no  doubt,  by  the  teachings  of  Cosmas,  he  resolved  to  withdraw  from  the 
world,  and  joined  the  monastery  of  St.  Saba,  near  Jerusalem,  where  he 
soon  earned  a  fame  for  piety  and  theological  learning  which  has  given 
him  a  place  among  the  saints  of  both  the  Eastern  and  Western  Churches. 
He  must  have  known  Arabic,  and  probably  Persian  ;  his  mastery  of 
Greek  won  him  the  epithet  of  Chryson-hoas,  or  gold-flowing.  He 
became  famous  as  the  defender  of  sacred  images,  and  as  the  opponent 
of  the  Emperor  Leo  the  Isaurian,  about  726. 

St.  John  Damascene,  whom  tradition  and  probability  alike  indicate 
(Max  Mueller,  Chips,  iv.  p.  176)  as  the  author  of  Barlaam  and  Josaphat, 
•evidently  took  his  hero  and  his  story  from  an  Indian  source.  The  early 
life  of  Josaphat  is  exactly  the  same  as  that  of  Gautama  Sakyamuni, 
best  known  to  us  under  the  name  of  Buddha.  In  the  Lalita  Vistara 
(French  trans,  by  P.  E.  Foucaux,  1884),  the  life,  though  no  doubt  the 
legendary  life  of  Buddha,  Buddha's  father  is  a  king,  and  after  the  birth  of 
a  son,  an  astrologer,  the  Brahman  Asita,  predicts  an  alternative  of  earthly 
glory  or  religious  sanctity.  His  father  vainly  seeks  to  keep  from  him  the 
cognizance  of  mundane  miseries.  He  drives  out :  on  one  drive  he  sees 
two  men,  one  maimed,  the  other  blind,  and  returns  home  saddened  with 
a  knowledge  of  the  existence  of  disease ;  on  another  drive,  from  sight  of  a 
decrepit  old  man,  he  learns  of  infirmit}^  and  decline ;  a  third  drive  gives 
him  knowledge  of  death,  as  he  passes  a  corpse ;  and  on  a  fourth  he 
meets  an  ascetic,  Avhose  sort  of  life  he  decides  to  adopt,  as  "  it  will,"  he 
says,  "  lead  us  to  a  real  life,  to  happiness  and  immortality."  No  wonder 
that  the  illustrious  and  cultured  St.  John  Damascene  availed  himself  of 
such  a  narrative  to  enfoi'ce  that  doctrine,  in  obedience  to  which  he  had 
quitted  a  high  station  at  a  pagan  court.  Fa  Hian,  three  centuries  prior 
to  the  time  of  Damascenus,  saw  still  standing  among  the  ruins  of  Kapil- 
avastu  the  towers  which  commemorated  Gautama  Buddha's  drives,  so 
celebrated  in  the  Buddhist  scriptures.  The  (see  Bigandet's  "  Life  or 
Legend  of  Gaudama,  the  Buddha  of  the  Bui-mese,"  two  vols.,  1880,  pub- 
lished in  Trlibner's  Oriental  Series)  coincidences  between  the  Indian  and 


CH.  I.]  BARLAAM    AND    JOSAPHAT.  65 

This  storv,  which  is  supposed  to  be  the  model  of  our 
spiritual  roiiiauces.  is  said,  aud  with  some  probability,  to 
be  founded  in  truth  ;  though  the  prophetic  orthodoxy  of 
Damascenus  has  anticipated  discussions  which  were  not 
agitated  for  centuries  after  the  era  of  his  saints. 

To  a  carnal  mind,  tlie  tale  in  itself  is  destitute  of  inte- 
rest. Martyrs  and  magicians,  theological  arguments  and 
triumphs  over  infidelity,  alternately  occupy  the  naiTator, 
while  Satan  and  his  agents  lie  in  wait  for  every  opportu- 
nity to  entrap  the  unwary  Neophytes. 

The  style  of  the  work  is  formed  on  the  sacred  writings, 
and  it  is  not  altogether  without  reason  that  the  origin  of 
spiritual  romance  has  been  traced  to  the  apocryj^hal  books 
of  Scriptm-e.  The  long  discoui'ses  of  Barlaam  abound  with 
parabolical  allusions — in  agreeable  and  ingenious  simili- 
tudes. Indeed,  in  so  long  a  composition,  and  of  such  a 
species,  it  is  surprising  that  the  author  should  have  con- 

the  Christian  story  are  so  palpable,  that  they  have  been  pointed  out  in- 
dependently of  each  other,  by  M.  Laboulaye  (Debats,  1859,  July  21  and 
26),  Dr.  Liebrecht  (Die  Quellen  des  Barlaam,  etc.,  Jahrb.  fiir  Roman, 
und  Engl.  Litteratui-,  1860,  ii.  p.  314),  and  Mr.  S.  Beal  (Travels  of  Fah- 
hian  and  Sung-Yun,  Buddhist  Pilgrims  from  China  to  India  (400  a.d. 
518  A.D.,  translated  from  the  Chinese  1869).  Possibly  even  a  proper 
name  may  have  been  transferred  from  the  sacred  canon  of  the  Buddhists 
to  the  pages  of  the  Greek  writer,  Buddha's  coachman  is  called  Chan- 
daka,  in  Burmese,  Sanna.  Barlaam's  companion,  is  called  Zardan. 
Keinaud,  in  his  Me'moire  sur  ITnde,  p.  91  (1849),  was  the  first,  it 
seems,  to  point  out  that  Youdasf,  mentioned  by  Massoudi  as  the  founder 
of  the  Saba'an  religion,  and  Youasaf,  mentioned  as  the  founder  of 
Buddhism  by  the  author  of  the  Kitab-al-Fihrist,  are  both  meant  for 
Bodhisattva,  a  corruption  quite  intelligible  with  the  system  of  transcrib- 
ing that  name  with  Persian  letters.  Professor  Beniey  (Zeitschrift  der 
Deutschen  Morgenliindischen  Gesellschaft,  vol,  xxiv.  p.  480)  has  identi- 
fied Theudas,  the  sorcerer,  in  Barlaam  and  Joseph,  with  the  Deva- 
datta  of  the  Buddhist  scriptures.  The  story  of  Barlaam  and  Josaphat, 
through  the  Latin  translation  (attributed  to  George  of  Trebizond),  and 
quoted  by  Vincent  of  Beauvais  in  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century, 
became  immensely  popular  in  the  middle  ages,  and  seems  to  have  been 
translated  into  nearly  all  the  European  languages,  as  well  as  into 
Arabic,  Ethiopic,  Armenian,  Hebrew,  and  Syriac,  The  Russian  Early 
Texts  Society  has  recently  (1881)  published  a  Serbian  Version  made 
from  the  Greek  in  the  fifteenth  century  by  the  Serbian  writer 
Paehomius. 

See  Professor  Max  Mueller's  Essay  on  the  Migration  of  Fables,  from 
which  the  preceding  remarks  have  been  chieHy  taken  (Max  Mueller, 
Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,  1875,  vol.  iv.  p.  145,  etc.). 

I.  F 


66  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

trived  so  mucli  to  enliven  the  dialogue,  and  render  it  so 
little  tedious. 

Wlien  the  Christian  religion  had  spread  abroad  in 
Egypt,  and  the  fame  of  the  sanctity  of  its  teachers  reached 
even  to  India,  where  many,  relinquishing  their  property, 
dedicated  themselves  to  the  solitary  worship  of  God,  there 
reigned  in  the  east  a  certain  king,  named  Abenner.  This 
23ersonage  was  distinguished  by  the  elegance  of  his  form, 
and  success  in  war,  but  darkened  his  other  bright  qualities 
by  a  superstitious  regard  to  idols.  All  things  prospered 
under  his  hands,  and  the  want  of  children  alone  aj^pears  to 
have  reminded  him  of  the  inadequacy  of  his  power  for 
securing  happiness. 

In  the  midst  of  this  prosperity,  Abenner  was  annoyed 
by  the  troops  of  monks  and  Christians,  who,  by  their  zeal 
in  preaching,  brought  over  from  the  worship  of  idols 
many  of  the  most  considerable  nobles  of  the  country.  En- 
raged at  this  defection,  and  unacquainted  with  the  truth  of 
the  doctrines  disseminated,  the  king  instituted  a  grievous 
persecution  against  all  who  jjrofessed  the  new  religion. 
Many  of  the  ordinary  worshippers  tottered  in  their  faith  ; 
but  the  monastic  class,  by  suffering  martyrdom,  enjoyed  a 
glorious  opportunity  of  showing  their  zeal  [c.  I].  A  dis- 
tinguished satrap,  moreover,  unterrified  by  the  sufferings 
of  the  Christians,  embraced  the  occasion  for  declaring  his 
conversion,  and  in  an  elaborate  speech  endeavoured  to 
seduce  the  king.  His  majesty,  however,  with  rare  forbear- 
ance, dismissed  him,  without  conferring  the  crown  of  mar- 
tyrdom ;  but  as  a  testimony  of  the  inefficacy  of  his  preach- 
ing, increased  the  rigour  of  his  persecution,  and  bestowed 
new  honours  on  the  worship^Ders  of  idols  [c.  2] . 

After  these  aberrations  a  son  is  born  to  Abenner  of  sin- 
gular beauty ;  overjoyed  by  the  accomplishment  of  his 
strongest  wish,  he  proclaims  a  great  festival,  and  assembles 
about  fifty  of  the  most  eminent  of  the  astrologers  skilled 
in  the  learning  of  the  Chaldeans.  These  sages  predict  that 
the  young  prince  would  surpass  in  wealth,  power,  and 
glory,  all  his  predecessors.^     Daniel  alone  of  their  number 

^  Dr.  Liebrecht,  who  has  published  a  German  edition  of  the  romance 
translated  from  the  Greek,  states  that  in  the  original  no  name  is  given  to 
the  astrologer. 


CH.  I.]  BARLAAM    AND    JOSAPHAT.  67 

foretells  his  distiiii^uislietl  zeal  for  the  Christian  religion, 
and  declares  that  the  glory  to  which  he  was  destined  was 
reserved  for  him  in  another  and  a  better  world. 

The  king,  dismayed  by  this  prophecy,  bethinks  himself 
of  human  means  to  avert  its  completion.  For  this  purpose 
he  builds  a  splendid  palace,  in  which  he  places  his  son,  and 
where,  by  providing  him  with  teachers  and  attendants  of 
the  most  healthy  and  beautiful  appearance,  he  is  careful 
that  no  symptoms  of  death,  or  disease,  or  poverty,  or  any- 
thing that  could  molest  him,  should  fall  under  his  ob- 
servation. 

After  these  arrangements,  so  well  calculated  for  the  good 
education  of  a  young  prince,  finding  that  some  of  the 
monks  still  survived,  Abenner  renews  the  persecution 
[c.  3],  and  on  two  of  their  number  he  bestows  the  crown  of 
martyrdom,  which  indeed  they  appear  to  have  eagerly 
solicited  [c.  4]. 

Meanwhile  Prince  Josaphat  waxed  strong,  and  possess- 
ing great  ingenuity,  and  a  prodigious  love  of  learning,  gives 
mucii  disquietude  to  his  teachers,  whom  he  frequently 
2:)uzzles  by  his  questions. 

Notwithstanding  the  anxiety  of  the  king,  to  keep  the 
mind  of  his  son  unacquainted  with  every  idea  productive 
of  pain,  the  irksomeness  of  his  confinement,  and  a  desire 
to  learn  its  cause,  harass  and  distress  him.  Having,  there- 
fore, persuaded  one  of  his  attendants  to  inform  him  of  the 
prediction  of  the  astrologer,  and  the  cause  of  the  persecu- 
tion of  the  Christians,  he  obtains  permission  from  the 
king  to  leave  his  prison,  his  guards  receiving  instructions 
that  wherever  he  went  he  should  be  surrounded  with  all 
imaginable  delights  :  But  in  spite  of  the  vigilance  of  those 
about  him,  to  remove  all  unseemly  objects  from  his  sight, 
he  one  day  steals  a  glance  at  a  leper,  and  soon  after  has  a 
full  view  of  an  old  man  in  the  last  stage  of  decrepitude, 
by  which  means  he  gradually  acquires  the  ideas  of  disease 
and  of  death  [c.  5]. 

In  these  days  the  word  of  God  came  to  Barlaam,  a  pious 
monk,  who  dwelt  in  the  wilderness  of  Sennaar,  and  moved 
him  to  attempt  the  conversion  of  Josaphat.  Having, 
therefore,  girt  himself  with  worldly  vesture,  he  journeyed, 
in  disguise  of  a  merchant,  towards  India,  till  he  arrived  at 


68  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

the  residence  of  tlie  young  prince.  Here  he  insinuated 
himself  into  the  confidence  of  the  attendant  who  had  re- 
vealed to  Josaphat  the  prediction  of  the  astrologer.  He 
informed  this  person  that  he  wished  to  present  the  prince 
with  a  gem  which  was  of  great  price,  and  was  endowed 
with  many  virtues.  Under  this  similitude  of  a  worldly 
jewel,  he  typified  the  beauties  of  the  gospel;  and  the 
prince  having  heard  the  story  of  the  merchant,  ordered 
him  to  be  instantly  introduced  [c.  6].  Barlaam  having 
thus  gained  admittance,  premises  his  instructions  with  a 
summary  of  sacred  history,  from  the  fall  of  Adam  to  the 
resurrection  of  our  Saviour ;  and,  having  in  this  way 
excited  the  attention  and  curiosity  of  Josaphat,  who  con- 
jectures that  this  is  the  jewel  of  the  merchant  [c.  7,  8],  he 
gradually  proceeds  to  unfold  all  the  mysteries  and  incul- 
cate all  the  credenda  of  Christianity. 

The  sacrament  of  baptism  [c.  8],  and  the  communion 
under  both  species — faith — works — and  the  resurrection, 
with  all  the  various  topics  such  subjects  involve,  are  suc- 
cessively expounded  and  illustrated.  Josaphat  yields  im- 
plicit assent  to  the  doctrines  of  Barlaam,  and  is  admitted 
to  a  knowledge  of  all  the  questions  which  agitated  the 
church  in  these  early  periods. 

The  consideration  of  the  seclusion  of  the  monks,  and  the 
efficacy  of  retirement  in  withdrawing  their  minds  from  this 
world,  with  a  warm  eulogy  on  this  sj^ecies  of  martyrdom 
[c.  12],  prepare  the  way  for  Barlaam  to  throw  off  the  ter- 
restrial habiliments  of  the  merchant,  and  to  appear  before 
his  pupil  in  all  the  luxury  of  spiritual  cleanness.  An 
ancient  goat-skin  (from  the  effect  of  the  sun,  almost  in- 
corporated with  his  fleshless  bones)  served  him  as  a  shirt, 
a  rough  and  ragged  hair-cloth  descended  from  his  loins  to 
his  knees,  and  a  cloak  of  the  same  texture  suspended  from 
the  shoulders  composed  the  uj^per  garment  of  this  disciple 
of  St.  Anthony. 

Unappalled  by  the  horror  of  this  picture,  Josaphat  en- 
treats the  monk  to  release  him  from  confinement,  and  to 
accept  him  as  a  companion  in  the  desert ;  but  is  dissuaded 
by  the  prudence  of  Barlaam,  who  fears  that,  by  the  failure 
of  such  a  premature  step,  he  might  be  debarred  from  the 
completion  of  his  pious  work  [c.  18], 


CH.  I.]  BARLAAM    AND    JOSAPHAT.  69 

Having,  therefore,  baptized  Josaphat,  and  left  him  his 
leathern  doublet  aud  hair-cloth  as  memorials  of  his  con- 
version, and  to  ward  off  the  attacks  of  Satan,  he  departs 
to  the  deserts  after  a  profusion  of  prayer  for  the  prince's 
perseverance  in  well-doing  [c.  21]. 

During  his  absence,  Josaphat  continues  to  manifest  his 
zeal  by  every  kind  of  mortification  and  prayer.  Unfortu- 
nately, however,  Zardan,  one  of  his  attendants,  who  was 
apprised  of  his  conversion,  uneasy  at  the  neglect  of  his 
trust,  reveals  to  the  king  the  visits  of  Barlaam. 

Forth  v\ath  Abenner,  being  grievously  enraged  and 
troubled,  betakes  himself  to  Arachis,  a  celebrated  astro- 
loger, to  whom  he  discovers  the  lamentable  predicament 
of  his  son. 

Arachis  soon  restores  composure  to  the  king,  by  pro- 
posing two  expedients  for  the  removal  of  this  grievance. 
The  first  of  these  was  to  lay  hold  of  Barlaam,  and,  by 
threatening  the  torture,  to  compel  him  to  confess  the  false- 
hood of  his  doctrine.  Should  Barlaam  escape,  he  next 
proposed  to  persuade  Nachor,  an  ancient  mathematician, 
who  had  a  strong  resemblance  to  the  monk,  to  allow  him- 
seK  to  be  discomfited  in  a  disputation  on  the  truth  of 
Christianity ;  by  which  means  he  expects  that  Josaphat 
will  without  difficulty  come  over  to  the  triumphant  party. 

In  their  endeavours  to  overtake  Barlaam  the  Impious 
are  imsuccessful ;  but  the  king  again  suffers  his  wrath 
against  the  monks  to  overpower  his  humanity,  and  seven- 
teen of  these  ascetics,  who  refuse,  with  many  contemptuous 
reproaches,  to  discover  the  retreat  of  Barlaam,  are  tortured 
and  put  to  death  [c.  22,  23].- 

Eecourse  was  now  had  to  the  second  expedient  of 
Arachis,  who,  having  arranged  matters  wath  Nachor,  signi- 
fies that  he  had  got  hold  of  Barlaam  ;  and  the  king  having 
proclaimed  an  amnesty,  invites  the  Christians,  with  the 
most  learned  of  the  heathen,  to  be  present  at  a  public  dis- 
putation with  the  hermit,  on  the  merits  of  the  new  faith. 

The  invitation  to  the  Christians,  however,  appears  not  to 
have  been  accepted,  for,  "vvith  the  exception  of  Barachias 
(who  will  appear  in  a  still  more  dignified  situation  here- 
after), no  one  comes  forward  in  behalf  of  the  pretended 
Barlaam   [c.  26].      Spite  of  this  untoward  circumstance. 


70  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

tlie  false  Barlaam,  like  the  celebrated  Balaam  of  old 
[4  Moses,  xxii.],  instead  of  cursing  the  king's  enemies, 
blesses  them  altogether  [c.  27].  The  menaces  of  Josaphat, 
who,  having  discovered  the  imjDOsition,  threatened  to  tear 
out  the  heart  and  tongue  of  Nachor  with  his  own  hands, 
should  he  be  overcome  in  the  argument,  a2:)pear  to  have 
operated  on  him  as  the  flaming  sword  of  the  angel  on  the 
prudent  and  patient  monitor  of  Balaam  [c.  26].  However 
this  may  be,  to  the  astonishment  and  displeasure  of  Aben- 
ner,  Nachor,  in  his  reply  to  the  idolaters,  proves  the  errors 
of  their  tenets,  and  the  divine  nature  of  Christianity. 

Dividing  the  diiferent  religions  into  three  classes,  the 
worship  of  the  gods,  the  Jewish  faith,  and  the  belief  in 
Christ,  he  exposes  the  absurdity  of  the  two  first,  and  con- 
cludes his  harangue  by  demonstrating  the  superiority  of 
the  New  Eeligion.  All  this  the  Magi  are  unable  to  refute, 
and  the  king,  after  many  vain  attempts  to  remind  Nachor 
of  his  instructions,  is  obliged  to  dissolve  the  assembly, 
with  the  intention  of  renewing  the  conference  on  the  fol- 
lowing day  [c.  27].  Josaphat,  however,  in  the  course  of 
the  night  completes  the  conversion  of  Nachor,  who  betakes 
himself  in  the  morning  to  the  wilderness,  to  work  out  his 
salvation  in  private. 

When  these  things  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  king, 
he  is,  as  usual,  much  irritated;  and  the  prudent  monks 
being  no  longer  exposed  to  his  resentment,  his  wise  men 
and  astrologers  are  flogged,  and  dismissed  with  disgrace. 
But,  spite  of  these  tokens  of  impartiality,  his  time  was  not 
yet  come,  though  he  no  longer  offers  sacrifice  to  the  gods, 
nor  holds  their  ministers  in  honour  [c.  28]. 

The  servants  of  the  idols  perceiving  the  estrangement  of 
the  king,  and  fearing  the  loss  of  offerings  he  was  wont  to 
make  to  the  gods,  call  to  their  aid  Theudas,  a  celebrated 
magician,  by  whose  instigation  Abenner  is  again  induced 
to  interfere  with  the  tranquillity  of  his  son. 

Presuming  on  the  influence  of  the  sexual  passion, 
Abenner  [c.  29],  by  advice  of  Theudas,  orders  the  atten- 
dants of  the  jmnce  to  be  removed,  and  in  their  room 
damsels  of  most  alluring  beauty  are  placed  around  him. 
Josaphat  appears  to  have  borne  their  assaults  with  won- 
derful fortitude,  though  the  proceedings  of  one  of  them 


CH.  I.]  BARLAAM    AND    JOSAPHAT.  71 

were  so  violent,  that  the  pious  Damasceniis  ascribes  tlieiii 
to  the  operation  of  demons,  who  were  understood  by  the 
primitive  Christians  to  be  the  authors  and  patrons  of 
idohitry/ 

A  more  dangerous  trial,  however,  is  yet  reserved  for 
Josaphat.  The  most  beautiful  of  his  maiden  attendants 
was  a  young  princess,  a  captive  of  Abenner.  In  this  damsel 
the  prince  takes  a  peculiar  interest,  and,  reflecting  on  her 
misfortunes,  he  uses  every  endeavour  to  solace  her  by  con- 
version to  Christianity.  Instigated  by  the  demons,  she 
jn-omises  to  accede  to  this  change  of  religion,  on  condition 
that  the  prince  should  espouse  her ;  and  on  his  declining 
a  tie  incompatible  with  his  vow  of  celibacy,  she  labours  to 
convince  him  of  its  innocence,  supporting  her  arguments 
by  the  example  of  the  patriarchs,  and  others  distinguished 
by  their  piety.  Josaphat,  however,  is  determined  against 
this  formal  breach  of  his  engagements ;  and  the  princess 
is  at  length  compelled  to  promise  that  she  will  embrace 
Christianity  on  more  moderate  terms.  This  was  too  much 
for  the  piety  of  Josaphat  to  resist,  and  the  glory  of  redeem- 
ing the  soul  of  the  damsel,  appeared  to  him  to  atone  for 
the  coi*2)oreal  defilement,  on  which  she  insisted  as  a  pre- 
liminary. 

At  this  perilous  crisis,  and  when  the  princess  seems  to 
have  been  on  the  brink  of  conversion,  Josaphat  bethinks 
himself  of  prayer.  After  some  hours  spent  in  tears  and 
supplications,  he  falls  into  a  profound  sleep,  during  which 
it  appeared  to  him  that  he  was  conveyed  to  an  immense 
meadow,  adorned  with  beautiful  and  fragrant  flowers,  and 
with  trees  bearing  every  species  of  fruit,  whose  leaves,  when 
shaken  by  the  breeze,  produced  at  once  celestial  melody 
and  delicious  odoiu-.  The  eyes  were  refreshed  by  streams 
which  glided  along  more  pure  than  crystal,  while  couches, 
scattered  through  the  meadow  and  luxuriously  prepared, 
invited  to  repose.  Thence  he  was  carried  into  a  city  which 
shone  with  ineffable  splendour.  The  walls  were  formed 
of  burnished  gold,  and  the  bulwarks,  which  towered  above 
them,  were  of  precious  stones,  superior  to  those  produced 
in  the  mines  of  this  world.     A  supernatural  light,  diffused 

^  Cf.  also  Barlaam  et  Jos.,  c.  32,  c.  33,  c.  35 ;  Milton's  "  Paradise 
I/jst,''  i.  V.  376-522;  and  Turpin's  Chronicle,  c.  4. — Lieb. 


72  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

from  above,  illumined  the  streets,  ^tlierial  bands,  clothed 
in  shining  vestments,  channted  strains  which  had  never 
yet  reached  the  ear  of  mortal,  and  a  voice  was  heard  saying, 
"  This  is  the  rest  of  the  just,  this  is  the  joy  of  those  who 
have  pleased  the  Lord."  His  guides  refusing  the  re- 
.  quest  of  Josaphat  to  remain  in  one  of  the  corners  of  this 
city,  he  was  again  carried  across  the  meadow,  and  on  the 
opposite  side  he  entered  dark  and  gloomy  caverns,  through 
which  whirlwinds  blew  with  unceasing  violence,  and  the 
worm  and  serpent  rioted  on  the  souls  of  sinners  in  a  furnace 
blown  to  fury  by  the  breath  of  demons. 

Josaphat  awakens  greatly  exhausted  by  this  vision,  and 
fortified  in  his  virtuous  resolutions  by  the  very  striking 
contrast  which  had  been  exhibited.  At  the  same  period 
likewise,  the  demons  (as  afterwards  appeared  from  their 
own  confession),  had  been  put  to  flight  by  a  sign  of  the 
cross  which  the  prince  had  fortunately  made,  and  thus  left 
him  to  combat  with  his  earthly  antagonist  alone. 

The  scheme  of  the  idolaters  having  thus  failed,  and  the 
captive  princess  being  abandoned  to  virginity  and  reproba- 
tion, Theudas  attempts  in  a  conference  to  shake  the  faith 
of  Josaphat ;  but  the  latter  victoriously  converts  the 
magician,  and  sends  him,  like  Nachor,  to  the  desert,  where 
he  is  baptized,  and  passes  the  remainder  of  his  life  in  vent- 
ing tears  and  groans,  and  in  producing  other  fruits  of 
repentance  [c.  31,  32]. 

At  length  the  king  determines  no  longer  to  harass  his 
son  on  the  score  of  religion  ;  but,  by  the  advice  of  Arachis, 
divides  his  kingdom  with  him,  hoping  that  the  cares  of 
government  may  withdraw  him  from  his  ascetic  habits. 
The  first  use,  however,  which  Josaphat  makes  of  his  new- 
acquired  power,  is  to  erect  the  cross  on  every  tower  of  the 
city  where  he  dwells,  while  the  temples  and  the  altars  of 
the  idols  are  levelled  with  the  dust ;  he  also  dedicates  to 
oui'  Saviour  a  magnificent  cathedral,  where  he  preaches  the 
gospel  to  his  subjects,  calls  many  from  darkness  to  light, 
and  distributes  his  treasures  among  the  poor.  Now  God 
(says  the  pious  author  of  this  history)  was  with  him 
whithersoever  he  walked,  and  all  that  he  did  prospered 
under  his  hands ;  but  it  was  not  so  with  the  household 
of  Abenner,  which  daily  waxed  weaker  and  weaker  [c.  33]. 


CH.  I.]  BARLAAM    AND    JOSAPHAT.  73 

Presuming  that  this  distinction  woukl  not  have  been 
made  without  a  cause,  the  king  finally  allows  himself  to 
be  converted  by  Josaphat ;  whose  spiritual  son  he  thus  be- 
comes, to  the  imutterable  edification  and  comfort  of  the 
monks  ;  and  then  retires  from  the  government  of  his  king- 
dom to  a  solitary  place,  where  he  chiefly  employs  himself 
in  throwing  dust  on  his  head,  and  at  length  gives  up  the 
ghost  after  a  long  course  of  penitence  and  mortification 
[e.  35]. 

Josaphat  being  now  left  without  check,  resolves  to  retire 
from  the  world,  and  pass  the  remainder  of  his  days  with 
Barlaam  in  the  desert.  Having  therefore  harangued  his 
people,  and  compelled  Barachias,  the  person  who  stood  for- 
ward to  defend  the  false  Barlaam,  to  ascend  the  vacant 
throne,  much  against  the  inclination  of  the  prince  elect,  he 
escapes  with  some  difiiculty  from  his  subjects  [c.  36]. 

After  a  painful  pilgrimage  of  many  days,  in  the  course 
of  which  he  meets  with  numberless  demons,  tempting  him 
sometimes  in  the  form  of  springs  of  water,  and  sometimes 
in  the  less  acceptable  shape  of  wild  beasts  and  serpents 
[c.  37],  he  arrives  at  the  cell  of  Barlaam  [c.  38]. 

There,  after  due  preparation  by  devout  exercises,  the 
old  man  dies,  and  is  buried  by  Josaphat,  who  spends  thirty- 
five  years  in  supplications  to  heaven,  for  a  speedy  removal 
from  this  life.  The  holy  men  of  these  times  indeed  appear 
to  have  passed  their  existence,  as  if  they  had  been  brought 
into  this  world  only  for  the  purpose  of  praying  for  their 
deliverance  from  its  thraldom  [c.  39]. 

The  prayers  of  Josaphat  are  at  length  heard,  and  he  is 
buried  by  a  neighbouring  hermit  in  the  grave  of  Barlaam. 

When  the  account  of  his  demise  reaches  his  successor, 
Barachias,  he  comes  with  a  great  retinue  to  the  desert ; 
and  having  raised  the  bodies  of  Josaphat  and  Barlaam, 
which  he  finds  perfectly  entire,  and  (which  could  not  have 
been  expected  in  the  lifetime  of  the  saints)  emitting  a  most 
grateful  odour,  he  transports  them  to  his  metropolis. 
There  they  are  deposited  in  a  magnificent  church,  in  which 
they  continued  to  work  miracles,  as  they  had  done  in  the 
course  of  their  journey,  and  before  they  were  again  interred 
[c.  40]. 

Such  is  the  principal  story  of  Josaphat  and  Barlaam, 


74  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

but  the  romance  is  interspersed  with  many  beautiful 
parables  and  apologues,  most  of  which  bear  evident  marks 
of  oriental  origin.  These  are  chiefly  introduced  as  having 
been  told  by  Barlaam  to  the  young  prince,  in  order  to 
illustrate  and  embellish  the  sacred  doctrines  which  he  was 
inculcating. 

A  man  flying  from  an  unicorn,  by  which  he  was  pursued, 
had  nearly  fallen  into  a  deep  pit,  but  saved  himself  by 
grasping  the  twigs  of  a  slender  shrub  which  grew  on  the 
side  [c.  12].  While  he  hung  suspended  over  the  abyss  by 
this  feeble  hold,  he  observed  two  mice,  the  one  white  and 
the  other  black,  gnawing  the  root  of  the  plant  to  which  he 
had  trusted.  At  the  bottom  of  the  gulf  he  saw  a  monstrous 
dragon,  breathing  forth  flames,  and  preparing  to  devour 
him ;  while  by  this  time  the  unicorn  was  looking  at  him 
over  the  verge  of  the  precipice.  In  this  situation  he  per- 
ceived honey  distilling  from  the  branches  to  which  he 
clung,  and,  unmindful  of  the  horrors  by  which  he  was  sur- 
rounded, he  satiated  himself  with  the  sweets  which  were 
dropping  from  the  boughs. — Here  the  unicorn  tyj^ifies 
death,  by  which  all  men  are  pursued ;  the  pit  is  the  world, 
full  of  evils ;  the  shrub,  of  which  the  root  was  corroded  by 
the  white  and  black  mouse,  is  life,  diminished,  and  at 
length  consumed,  by  the  hours  of  day  and  night;  the 
dragon  is  hell ;  and  the  honey  temporal  pleasures,  which 
we  eagerly  follow,  regardless  of  the  snares  which  are  every- 
where spread  for  our  destruction.^ 

In  order  to  inculcate  the  wisdom  of  laying  up  treasures 
in  heaven,  we  are  told  [c.  14],  that  a  certain  state  observed 
the  custom  of  choosing  a  foreigner  for  its  king,  and  after 
allowing  him  to  pass  a  certain  time  in  all  imaginable 
delights,  drove  him,  by  a  general  insurrection,  into  a 
remote  and  desert  island.  One  of  these  monarchs,  learning 
how  frail  was  the  tenure  by  which  he  held  the  sovereignty, 

^  This  parable,  which  forms  chap,  iv.  of  the  Kalilah  ve  Dimnah,  has 
found  its  way  from  Indian  sources  into  almost  every  literature  in  the 
world.  See  Max  Mueller's  "  Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,"  1875 
ed.,  A'ol.  iv.  p.  178.  Cf.  Benfey,  Panschatantra,  i.  80,  ii.  528  5  S.  Julien, 
Avadanas,  i.  132,  191  ;  Gesta  Romanoruraj  cap.  168  ;  Homayun  Naraeh, 
caput  iv.  ;  Grimm,  Teutonic  Mythology,  vol.  ii.  p.  798 ;  F.  Liebrecht, 
Jahrblicher  flir  Rom.  und  Engl.  Literatur.  1860;  Loiseleur  Deslong- 
ohamps,  Essai  sur  les  Fables  Indiennes,  p.  64,  &c. 


CH.  I.]  BARLAAM    AND    JOSAPHAT.  75 

instead  of  cousumiiiij^  his  time,  like  his  predecessors,  in 
feasts  and  caronsals,  employed  himself  in  amassing  heaps 
of  gold  and  silver  and  precious  stones,  which  he  transmitted 
to  the  island  to  which  he  expected  to  be  conveyed.  Thither 
(when  the  period  of  banishment  at  length  arrived)  he  be- 
took himself  without  pain  or  reluctance,  and  while  he  saw 
his  foolish  predecessors  perishing  with  want,  he  passed  the 
remainder  of  his  days  in  joy  and  abundance/ 

A  powerful  and  magnificent  king,  during  an  excursion 
through  the  streets  of  his  capital  [c.  16],  observed  a  glim- 
mering hght,  and  looking  through  a  chink  of  the  door 
whence  it  issued,  he  perceived  a  subterraneous  habitation, 
in  which  was  seated  a  man  clothed  in  rags,  and  apparently 
in  the  last  extremity  of  want.  By  him  sat  his  wife,  hold- 
ing an  earthen  cup  in  her  hand,  but  singing  and  delighting 
her  husband  with  all  sorts  of  merriment.  The  king  ex- 
2)ressing  his  wonder  at  the  thoughtlessness  of  those  who 
could  rejoice  in  such  penury,  his  minister  embraced  the 
opportimity  of  teaching  him,  that  princes  who  exult  in 
splendid  palaces  and  royal  vestments,  appear  still  more 
thoughtless  to  the  glorified  inhabitants  of  the  eternal 
mansions. 

There  is  also  related  a  story  [c.  13],  which  has  been  fre- 
quently imitated,  of  a  person  who  was  prosecuted  for  a 
debt  due  to  the  crown,  and  who,  on  applying  to  friends 
whom  he  had  supported,  or  for  whom  he  had  exposed  his 
life,  is  repulsed  by  them  all,  but  is  at  length  relieved  by 
an  enemy,  whom  he  had  oj^pressed  and  persecuted.^ 

•  This  parable  is  likewise  of  Oriental  extraction,  and  is  essentially  the 
same  as  No.  1509  of  Aohmed  Ben  Arabschah,  given  by  Cardonne,  in 
Melanges  de  Litt.  orient.,  i.  68.  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt  (Wien.  Jahrb.  xxvi. 
41)  gives  further  references  to  the  various  forms  of  this  parable  5  it  is, 
moreover,  the  source  of  the  40th  chapter  of  the  Conde  Lucanor. — Lieb. 

-  L'pon  this  parable  see  Val.  Schmidt's  remarks  in  his  Comment.  Dis- 
cipl.  Cler.,  p.  95,  ct  serjq.  An  imitation  of  it  is  found  in  T.  Wright's 
'•  Selection  of  Latin  Stories"  from  MSS.  of  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth 
centuries,  London,  1842,  No.  108. 

Among  other  parables  in  Barlaam  and  Jos.  is  that  (c.  6)  of  the  caskets 
immortalized  by  Shakspcre  in  the  Merchant  of  Venice.  See  upon 
this  Schmidt's  remarks  in  Beitraege  zur  Geschichte  der  Romantischen 
Poesie,  p.  100. 

A  king  seeing  two  emaciated  men  in  ragged  clothes,  descends  from 
his  carriage  and  throws  himself  at  their  feet.    The  magnates  of  the  king- 


76  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

It  was  probably  in  consequence  of  the  number  and 
beauty  of  these  parables  that  Josaphat  and  Barlaam  be- 
came so  great  a  favourite,  and  was  so  frequently  imitated 
during  the  middle  ages.  In  a  later  period  it  gave  rise  to 
more  than  one  of  the  tales  of  Boccaccio,  as  will  a^^jDear 
when  we  come  to  treat  of  the  Italian  novelists  ;  and  it  was 
unquestionably  the  model  of  that  species  of  spiritual 
fiction,  which  was  so  prevalent  in  France  during  the  six- 
teenth and  seventeenth  centuries. 

Josaphat  and  Barlaam,  however,  was  the  last  example  of 
this  species  of  composition  j^roduced  during  the  existence 
of  the  eastern  empire  ;  the  only  Greek  romance  by  which 
it  was  succeeded,  being  formed  on  the  model  of  Theagenes 

dom  evince  displeasure,  and  the  king's  brother  gives  expression  to  the 
same  sentiment.  It  was  the  custom  of  the  land  to  send  a  herald  to 
sound  a  blast  on  his  trumpet  at  the  doors  of  such  as  were  condemned  to 
death.  The  king  despatches  a  messenger  of  this  kind  to  his  brother, 
who  presents  himself  with  his  family  before  the  prince,  with  all  the  signs 
of  despair.  "  Fool,"  says  the  King  to  him,  "  thou  fearest  the  messenger 
of  thy  brother,  although  thou  art  not  conscious  of  any  offence,  and  yet 
thou  blamest  me  for  humbly  greeting  the  heralds  of  my  God,  who  with 
clear  sound  announced  my  death  and  the  awful  approach  of  the  Lord, 
before  whom  I  am  guilty  of  great  and  numerous  sins."  In  order  to 
abash  the  magnates,  he  causes  four  caskets  to  be  made.  Two  richly  gilt 
but  filled  with  stinking  bones,  with  gold  locks ;  two  covered  with  pitch, 
bound  with  cords,  filled  with  precious  stones,  pearls,  and  fragrant  oint- 
ments. The  reproachful  gi-andees,  upon  being  commanded  to  choose, 
select  the  gilt  coffers,  and  the  King  exclaims,  "  I  knew  it,  for  ye  see  the 
outward  with  the  eyes  of  sense."  What  in  Boccaccio  (x.  1),  where  the 
caskets  are  not  differenced,  is  laid  to  the  caprice  of  fortune,  is  hei'e  as- 
cribed to  spiritual  blindness  and  perversity  of  judgment.  For  an  account 
of  this  legend  and  its  remote  origin,  see  infra.  Boccaccio's  "  Decameron," 
day  X.  story  1,  and  note. 

Upon  the  parable  (c.  10)  of  the  bird,  and  to  three  lessons,  see  Val. 
Schmidt  notes  to  Discipl.  Cler.  p.  151,  and  to  Straparola,  p.  288,  and 
Graesse  on  No.  167  of  the  Gesta  Rom. 

The  parable  (c.  29  or  30)  popularized  by  Boccaccio  (page  iv,  Intro- 
duction) is  translated  almost  literally  from  Barlaam,  in  No.  13  of  the 
Cento  Novelle  Antiche,  while  another  reproduction  is  found  in  Cornaz- 
zano'  Proverbi,  Prov.  9.  Hans  Sachs,  4,  2,  125,  tells  the  story  just  as  it 
is  in  Barlaam,  but  of  the  son  of  the  Swedish  King  Haldan.  See  F.  W.  V. 
Schmidt,  Beitraege,  p.  27,  also  V.  d.  Hagen  Gesammtabenteuer,  No.  23, 
T.  Wright,  Latin  Stories,  Nos.  3  and  78,  and  Herolt,  Promptuarium  ex- 
emplorum.  No.  24.  According  to  Du  Meril,  Histoire  de  la  Poesie  Scan- 
dinave,  p.  348,  the  story  of  this  attempted  seduction  as  narrated  by  Boc- 
caccio bears  a  close  resemblance  with  an  episode  of  the  Ramayana  called 
the  Seduction  of  Rikyafriuga  (Chezy  Sacountala,  p.  278).— Lieb. 


CH.  I.]       EUSTATHIUS HYSMENE    AND    HYSMENIAS.  11 

and  Charic'loa.  or  rather  of  tlie  Clitoj>li(»ii  and  Luiieippe. 
Indeed,  in  this  last  and  feeble  example  of  Grecian  fiction, 
we  seldom  meet  with  an  incident  of  which  we  have  not  the 
prototype  in  the  romances  of  Heliodorus  or  Tatius. ,  It  is 
entitled  : 

Hysmene  and  Hysmenias/ 

and  was  written  by  Eustathius,  sometimes  called  Euma- 
thius,"  who  flourished,  as  Huet  terms  it,  in  the  12tli  cen- 
tury, during  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Emanuel  Comnenus. 
The  commencement  of  the  story,  and  the  mode  in  which 
the  hero  and  heroine  become  acquainted,  is  evidently 
taken  from  Heliodorus.  Ismenias  or  Hysmenias  is  sent 
as  a  herald  from  his  native  city,  Eurycomis,  for  the 
performance  of  some  annual  ceremony,  to  Aulycomis, 
where  he  is  hosj^itably  entertained  by  Sosthenes,  the 
father  of  Ismene  or  Hysmene.  This  young  lady  is  seized 
with  a  passion  for  the  herald,  on  seeing  him  for  the 
first  time  at  dinner ;  she  presses  his  hand,  makes  love 
to  him  under  shelter  of  the  table,  and  at  length  pro- 
ceeds so  far  that  Ismenias  bursts  into  laughter  [1.  i.]. 
Heliodorus  has  painted  his  Arsace,  and  Tatius  his  Melite, 
as  women  of  this  description ;  but  Eustathius  is  the 
first  who  has  introduced  his  heroine  avowing  love  mth- 
out   modesty  and   without   dehcacy.^      To   her   advances 

^  To  /ca9'  'X(j\nv'iav  koli  'Yfffiivtjv  dpafia,  iroiijfia  'EvaraOiov  7rpoTOvo)(3e- 
Xinifiov  Kai  fxeyaXoy  xapTO<pv\aKOQ  tov  Traps mioXirov  (some  MSS.  have 
fiaKpeniSoXiTov,  the  meaning  of  tlie  epithet  seems  in  either  case  to  be  un- 
known. Graesse,  p.  768,  infers  Eustathius  to  have  been  a  Christian 
from  a  passage  resembling  part  of  Psalm  cxxxix.,  which,  however,  Kohde 
(p.  523)  shows  is  imitated  rather  from  his  usual  model  Achilles  Tatius. 
Indeed,  the  whole  story  is,  according  to  Rohde  (p.  525),  merely  a  cari- 
cature of  the  work  of  Tatius.     See  Graesse,  Lehrb.  Bd.  i.  p.  768. 

-  As  in  the  Vatican  Codex,  1 14,  see  xii.  or  xiii.,  which  is,  however,  the 
best  of  the  MSS.,  above  twenty  in  number,  which  are  known.  The  work 
is  in  eleven  books.  Eustathius.  it  is  considered,  cannot  have  written  before 
865,  as  in  his  collection  of  riddles  mention  is  made  of  the  Russian  people, 
whose  first  contact  with  Byzantium  is  referred  to  that  year.  See  l^icolai. 
Griechisclie  Literaturgeschichte,  iii.  pp.  359,  60,  where  an  account  of  the 
various  MSS.  and  editions  will  be  found.  It  has  been  suspected  that 
Gaulmin,  who  published  the  work  with  a  Latin  translation  in  1618, 
adopted  the  name  of  Eustathius,  in  order  to  make  the  public  believe  that 
the  romance  was  written  by  the  commentator  on  Homer  of  that  name. 

^  This  forwardness  M.  Gidel  looks  upon  as  an  outcome  of  the  exces- 


78  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

Ismenias  at  length  makes  some  return  [1.  iv.],  and  tlie 
period  of  his  embassy  being  expired,  he  departs  to  his 
native  place,  Eurycomis,  accompanied  by  Sosthenes  and 
his  daughter  Ismene,  whom  he  entertains  in  his  father's 
house  [1.  V.].  One  day,  at  dinner,  Sosthenes  accidentally 
mentions  that  his  daughter  is  speedily  to  be  married. 
Ismene,  who  appears  to  have  been  previously  unacquainted 
with  this  projected  change  in  her  situation,  insists,  in  the 
course  of  the  following  night,  on  an  immediate  elopement 
with  Ismenias.  She  dragged  me  along  (says  Ismenias, 
who  relates  the  story),  nor  would  she  quit  her  hold,  though 
I  affirmed  that  the  things  necessary  for  her  departure  were 
not  prepared.     I  with  difficulty,  at  length,  escaped  from 

sive  deference  and  respect  shown  to  women  in  the  West  and  reflected  in 
Eustathius'  work. 

In  the  romance  of  Aionl,  a  maiden  presents  herself  at  the  couch  of  a 
knight  and  places  herself  at  his  discretion  (Histoire  Litteraire  de  la 
France,  t.  xxii.).  In  I  Reali  di  Francia  which  is  but  a  translation  of 
divers  French  romances,  the  maidens  behave  similarly.  Fegra  Albano 
di  Barbaria,  Dusolina  and  Galeana  are  enamoured  of  Fioravante,  and  do 
not  hesitate  to  tell  him  so.  Galeana  dies  from  grief  at  seeing  herself 
despised  (Lib.  ii.  ch.  iv.).  A  captain's  daughter  falls  in  love  with  Gis- 
berto  upon  hearing  his  praise,  and  resorts  to  him  in  prison  (Lib.  iii. 
c.  8).  Druziana,  daughter  of  King  Erminione,  declares  her  love  to 
Buovo  d'Antona  (the  Italian  Sir  Bevis  of  Hampton),  Lib.  iv.  cc.  10,  11, 
etc.  A.  C.  Gidel,  Etudes  sur  la  Litterature  grecque  Moderne,  Paris, 
1866,  p.  14. 

How  early  Western  romances  may  have  found  readers  in  the  East  it 
would  be  difficult  to  determine.  About  1410,  however,  a  lord  Beau- 
champ,  travelling  in  the  East,  was  hospitably  received  at  Jerusalem  by 
the  Soldan's  lieutenant,  "  who  hearing  that  he  was  descended  from  the 
famous  Guy  of  Warwick,  whose  story  they  had  in  hooks  of  their  own  lan- 
guage, invited  him  to  his  palace,  etc."  Baron,  i.  p.  243,  col.  i. ;  Warton, 
Hist.  Eng.  Poetry,  ed.  Hazlitt,  1871,  a-oI.  ii.  p.  145  note. 

Woi'ks  such  as  AvjSvarpog  km  'Poddfivr],  BeXOavdpog  /cat  XpvadvrZct 
seem  to  have  been  works  composed  after  Prankish  models  rather  than 
translations.  Belthandros  is  probably  an  Oriental  form  of  Bertrand, 
'Poc6(j)i\oQ,  his  father's  name,  a  felicitous  equivalent  of  Rodolphe,  and 
perhaps  $(Xap/iog,  brother  of  Belthandros,  is  for  AVillermus.  In  Byzan- 
tine historians  Guillaume  is  sometimes  rendered  TovXiapixbg.  In  the 
Libystros,  the  name  BtpSepixog  is  according  to  Crusius  (Turco-Grrecidae, 
libri  viii.  p.  489),  is  Frederick,  and  in  "  rojpa  cnroQvr^nKHQ  cKsXTre,"  the 
last  word  is  the  Gei'man  Schelm.  He  considers  the  romance  may  have 
been  written  at  the  time  when  the  Germans,  French,  and  Venetians, 
reigned  at  Constantinople  under  the  Counts  of  Flanders.  Gidel,  Etudes, 
chap.  iii. 


CH.  I.]       EUSTATHIUS — HYSMENE    AND    HYSMENIAS.  79 

her  hands,  ealliiiijj  all  the  u;ods  to  witness. — Ismenias,  how- 
ever, on  leaving  her,  does  not  go  to  prejjare  for  the  elope- 
ment, hut  to  sleep  [1.  vi.]  ;  which,  indeed,  is  the  constant 
resource  of  the  hero  of  this  romance  in  every  emergency. 
Throughout  the  whole  work  he  consults  his  pillow,  in  cir- 
cumstances which  should  have  converted  a  sleeper  of 
Ephesus  into  an  Argus.  At  length,  by  the  exertions  of 
Cratisthenes,  the  friend  of  Ismenias,  a  vessel  is  procured, 
in  which  the  lovers  embark.  A  storm  having  arisen,  and 
a  victim  being  thought  necessary  by  the  sailors  to  appease 
Neptune,  the  lot  falls  on  Ismene,  who  is  accordingly 
thrown  overboard.  The  wind  of  course  is  allayed ;  but  as 
the  lover  of  Ismene  disturbs  the  crew  with  his  lamenta- 
tions, he  is  set  ashore  on  the  coast  of  Ethiopia  [1.  vii.]. 
After  being  thus  disembarked,  he  experiences  the  usual 
adventures  with  pirates,  and  is  at  last  sold  as  a  slave  at 
Daphnipolis,  to  a  Greek  master  ;  who  soon  after  goes  as 
herald  to  another  city  in  Greece,  and  carries  Ismenias 
along  with  him  [1.  viii.].  The  herald  and  his  slave  are 
received  in  the  house  of  Sostratus,  where  Ismenias  dis- 
covers Ismene,  living  in  a  servile  condition.  When  thrown 
into  the  sea,  she  had  been  j^reservecl  by  the  exertions  of  a 
dolphin,  and  had  afterwards  been  sold  by  pirates  to  Sos- 
tratus [1.  ix.  xi.].  This  gentleman,  with  his  daughter,  and 
also  Ismene,  attend  the  master  of  Ismenias  to  Daphni- 
polis. In  the  middle  of  the  night  wliich  followed  their 
an'ival  in  that  city,  the  whole  band  proceed  to  worship  in 
the  temple  of  Apollo.  Here  the  father  and  mother  of 
Ismenias,  and  the  parents  of  Ismene,  are  discovered  tear- 
ing their  hair,  and  lamenting  in  full  chorus.  The  lovers 
are  recognized  by  their  parents,  and  redeemed  from  servi- 
tude, after  the  heroine  has  been  subjected  to  the  usual 
trial  of  chastity. 

In  this  romance,  which  consists  of  eleven  books,  no  dis- 
tressing incident  (except  indeed  to  the  reader)  occurs  till 
the  sixth,  in  which  Ismene's  intended  marriage  is  first 
alluded  to  by  her  father.  The  five  preceding  books  pre- 
sent one  continued  scene  of  jollity,  and  the  long  descrip- 
tions of  festivity  are  seldom  interrupted,  except  by  still 
longer  accounts  of  dreams,  which  are  represented  as  having 
been  infinitely  more  agreeable  than  could  be  expected,  from 


80  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

tlie  loaded  stomaclis  of  the  sleepers.  As  the  work  ad- 
vances, these  dreams  become  quite  ridiculous,  from  their 
accurate  minuteness,  and  the  long  reasonings  carried  on  in 
them  by  persons  whose  stock  of  logic,  even  when  awake, 
does  not  appear  to  have  been  very  extensive. 

The  story  of  Ismene  and  Ismenias  is  not  intricate  in 
itself,  but  is  perplexed  by  the  similarity  of  names.  The 
reader  must  be  far  advanced  in  the  work  before  he  learns 
to  distinguish  the  hero  from  the  heroine ;  especially  as  the 
latter  acts  a  jDart  which  in  most  romances  is  assigned  to 
the  former.  Eurycomis  is  the  city  from  which  Ismenias  is 
sent  as  herald.  In  Aulycomis  he  is  received  by  Sosthenes, 
the  father  of  Ismene  ;  and  is  sold  to  a  G-reek  master  at 
Daphnipolis,  who  goes  as  herald  to  Artycomis,  where  he  is 
entertained  by  Sostratus.  Eu.stathius  has  perhaps  fallen 
into  this  blemish  by  imitating  Hehodorus,  in  whose  ro- 
mance Chaereas,  Calasiris,  and  Cnemon  are  the  names  of 
the  principal  characters. 

Eustathius  resembles  the  author  of  Clitophon  and  Leu- 
cippe,  in  his  fondness  for  descriptions  of  paintings.  The 
second  and  fourth  books  are  full  of  accounts  of  allegorical 
pictures  in  the  temples  and  summer-house  of  the  garden 
of  Sosthenes,  which  were  hung  with  representations  of  the 
four  cardinal  virtues,  and  also  with  emblems  of  each  of  the 
twelve  months  of  the  year.  A  reaper  is  drawn  for  July ;  a 
person  bathing  for  August ;  and  one  sitting  by  the  fire  for 
February.  Some  of  these  allegories,  however,  are  rather 
far-fetched ;  thus  it  is  not  very  ai^posite  to  make  a  soldier 
the  emblem  of  March,  because  that  month  is  the  most 
favourable  for  military  expeditions.  From  Tatius  also  the 
author  of  Ismene  and  Ismenias  borrows  that  ticklish  ex-. 
periment,  which  winds  up  the  fable  of  so  many  of  the 
G-reek  romances,  with  such  honour  to  the  heroines,  and 
such  satisfaction,  to  their  lovers.  From  Longus,  according 
to  Huet,  he  has  taken  that  celebrated  j^iece  of  gallantry,^ 
<vhich  consists  in  drinking  from  the  i^art  of  a  goblet  which 
had  been  touched  by  the  lips  of  a  mistress.  But  this 
artifice,  which  has  been  introduced  in  so  many  amatory 
compositions,^  may  be  traced  much  higher  than  the  Daphnis 

^  Elegans  urbanitatis  genus. — Huet,  Orig.  Fab. 
2  Moore's  ode  :  The  Fall  of  Hebe. 


CH.  I.]       EUSTATHIUS — HYSMENE    AND    HYSMENIAS.  81 

aud  Cliloe  of  Lodsj:us.  It  is  one  of  the  counsels  i;iven  Ly 
Ovid  in  his  Art  ot"  Love:  (de  Art.  Amat.  lib.  i.  575.) 

Fac  primus  rapias  illius  tacta  labellis 
Pocula  :  4uatiue  bibit  parte  puella,  bibe. 

Lucian,  too,  in  one  of  his  dialogues,^  makes  Jupiter  pay 
this  compliment  to  Ganymede  ;  and  the  same  conceit  may 
be  found  in  a  collection  of  letters  by  the  sophist  Philo- 
stratus,  who  wrote  in  the  second  century.  "  Drink  to  me," 
says  he,  "  with  thine  eyes  only,  or  if  thou  wilt,  putting  the 
cup  to  thy  lips,  fill  it  with  kisses,  and  so  bestow  it  upon  me."  " 

On  account  of  his  numerous  plagiarisms,  Eustathius  is 
violently  attacked  by  Huet,  who  says  that  he  rather  tran- 
scribes than  imitates  the  work  of  Tatius.  "  Indeed,"  con- 
tinues he,  "  there  can  be  nothing  more  frigid  than  this 
romance,  nothing  meaner,  nothing  more  unpleasant  and 
disgusting.  In  the  whole  there  is  no  decency,  no  probability, 
no  invention,  no  happy  disposition  of  incident.  The  author 
introduces  the  hero  relating  his  own  adventures ;  but  one 
cannot  discover  whom  he  addresses,  or  why  he  is  discoursing. 
Ismene  is  first  enamom-ed,  she  first  confesses  and  offers 
love  without  modesty,  without  shame,  and  without  art. 
Ismenias  takes  no  hint  from  these  caresses,  nor  does  he 
make  any  return.  This  may  be  praiseworthy  in  morals  or 
philosophy,  but  is  wretched  in  romance.  In  short,  the 
whole  is  the  work  of  some  raw  school-boy,  or  unskilful 
sophist,  from  whose  hands  the  birch  ought  never  to  have 
been  withdrawn." 

These  remarks  of  Huet  may  in  general  be  well  founded, 
but  his  censure  of  Eustathius  for  not  having  created  a  cha- 
racter to  whom  the  hero  recounts  his  history  woidd  be  aj)- 
plicable,  if  just,  not  only  to  the  work  he  criticises,  but  to 
many  of  our  best "  modem  novels  and  romances.  The 
method  adopted  by  Achilles  Tatius,  of  introducing  a  listener, 

'  Dialog.  Deor.  vol.  i.  p.  129.  /  0  5  1  ^f 

*  Efioi  ci  ^ovoig  TTpoTTii's  rolg  ufifjami'.  'Ei  ct  /iaXei  toIc  xeiXecri  7Tpo<T- 
tptpaaa  7r\i)pn  (piXijficiTujv  to  tKirw^a,  kui  HTiog  c«(^«.  24.  This  idea,  along 
with  many  other  tar-fetched  conceits  of  Philostratus,  has  been  imitated 
bj  Ben  Jonson.  in  his  poem  entitled  the  Forest : — 

"  Drink  to  me  only  with  thine  eyes. 

And  I  will  pledge  with  mine; 
Or  leave  a  kiss  but  in  the  cup, 
And  I'll  not  look  for  wine."' 
I.  G 


82  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  '      [CH.  I. 

seems  now  exploded ;  and  if  we  fancy  that  the  hero  or 
heroine  speaks,  the  narration  must  be  regarded  as  a 
soliloquy  from  beginning  to  end.  But  in  the  modern  novel, 
and  in  the  G-reek  romance  of  Ismene  and  Ismenias,  the  per- 
sons who  relate  their  story  are  neither  conceived  to  address 
a  friend,  nor  to  report  their  adventures  to  themselves,  but 
are  supposed  to  have  written  what  the  reader  peruses. 

Notwithstanding  its  defects,  Ismene  and  Ismenias  has 
been  imitated  by  subsequent  poets  and  winters  of  romance. 
D'Urfe,  in  particular,  has  taken  the  description  of  the 
fountain  of  love  introduced  in  the  Astrea,^  from  that  of 
Diana  at  Artycomis  [1.  8]  ;  and  many  of  the  incidents  and 
names  in  the  work  of  Eustathius  have  been  transferred  to 
the  Spanish  pastoral  of  Montemayor. 

Besides  those  Greek  romances  that  have  been  enumerated, 
there  is  one  entitled  Dosicles  and  Ehodantes,  by  Theo- 
dorus  Prodromus,  who  wrote  about  the  middle  of  the 
twelfth  century,  and  was  nearly  contemporary  with  Eusta- 
thius, but  which  shall  not  be  farther  mentioned ;  as,  besides 
being  very  indifferently  written,  it  is  in  iambics,  and  is 
rather  a  poem  than  a  romance.^  It  was  followed  by  a  great 
many  others  of  a  similar  description,  in  the  tweKth  and 
thirteenth  centuries,  all  of  which  are  written  in  iambics ; 
and  contain  a  series  of  wandering  adventures,  strung  to- 
gether with  little  art  or  invention,  as  the  loves  of  Charicles 
AND  Drossilla,  by  Nicetas  Eugenianus,  etc. 

Of  all  these  an  account  has  been  given  by  Eabricius,  in 
his  Bibliotheca  Grrseca  [1.  5.  c.  6.],  but  the  only  one  deserving 
of  notice  or  attention,  is 

The  History  of  Apollonius  of  Tyre, 

which  is  written  in  such  barbarous  verse,  that  I  can  scarcely 
be  considered  as  breaking  through  my  plan,  by  giving  a 
short  accomit  of  it.''    The  original  Greek,  I  believe,  has  only 

^  See  infra,  Astree. 

^  Gaulmin  also  edited  the  Dosicles  and  Ehodantes,  a  MS.  copy  of  which 
was  transmitted  to  him  by  Salmasius,  and  printed  at  Paris  in  1615.  The 
author  of  this  romance,  he  informs  us,  was  originally  from  Eussia,  but 
became  soon  after  his  arrival  in  Greece,  a  priest,  a  physician,  and  a 
philosopher. 

^  Dunlop  has  mistaken  the  Neo-Hellenic  version  of  Gabriel  Kontianos 
from  the  Latin,  published  circ.  1500,  for  the  original  Greek  work,  no 


CH.  I.]  HISTORY    OF    APOLLONIUS    OF    TYRE.  83 

l3een  reoontly  edited,  but  a  Latin  jirose  translation,  formed 
as  early  as  the  eleventh  century,  was  published  soon  after 
the  invention  of  printing?,  under  the  title  of  Apollonii  Tyrii 
Historia.  In  this  romance,  we  are  told  that  Antiochus, 
king  of  Syria,  who  entertained  towards  his  daughter  warmer 
sentiments  than  those  of  paternal  affection,  in  order  to 
retain  her  in  his  own  palace,  propounded  to  her  numerous 
suitors  a  riddle  to  be  explained  as  the  price  of  her  hand. 
ApoUonius,  king  of  Tyre,  having  fallen  in  love  with  the 
princess  by  report,  arrives  at  the  capital  of  Antiochus,  and 
solves  the  enigma,  which  contained  an  allusion  to  the 
criminal  passion  of  the  father.  The  king  of  Syria  lays 
snares  for  the  destruction  of  ApoUonius,  who  escapes  from 
his  dominions,  and  after  various  adventures  is  driven  by  a 
storm  into  the  states  of  a  monarch,  where  his  regal  descent 
being  discovered  by  the  majesty  of  his  appearance,  and 
the  variety  of  his  accomplishments,  the  king's  daughter 

text  of  which  is  known.  That  the  noAel  is  a  translation  appears  from 
the  numerous  Gneeisms  found  in  it  (Kiese,  p.  xi-xiii).  In  c.  34,  one 
pound  of  gold  is  coined  into  fifty  pieces,  whicli  was  the  custom  since  the 
time  of  Caracalla,  while  after  Constantine  it  became  usual  to  go  by 
solidi,  whence  the  original  would  appear  to  have  been  composed  in  the 
time  between  Caracalla  and  Constantine  (W.  Christ.  Trans,  of  the 
Munich  Acad.  Phil.  Hist.,  CI.  1872,  p.  4).  The  translation  must  have 
been  composed  after  Symposius  (circ.  500)  whose  enigmas  are  inserted, 
and  before  the  treatise  De  Dubiis  Nominibus  (ssec.  vii.),  in  which  the 
novel  is  quoted.  It  is  also  mentioned  in  a  catalogue  of  books  of  the 
abbey  of  St.  Wandrille,  in  Normandy,  a.d.  747.  (Pertz,  Monumenta 
Germaniie  Historica,  ii.  p.  287.  Ward,  Cat.,  p.  161.)  The  author  of  the 
original  work  was  a  native  of  Asia  !Minor  (W.  Teuffel.  Kh.  ]\Ius.  xxvii, 
104),  and  a  pagan.  The  translator  dressed  up  the  work,  though  care- 
lessly, in  a  Christian  garb,  and  at  the  same  time  barbarized,  enlarged, 
and,  towards  the  end,  abbreviated  the  original  work.  The  sentences  are 
freely  built  up  in  a  plebeian  manner  and  diction,  the  style  is  without  any 
literary  culture,  and  there  are  words  and  phrases  which  belong  to  the 
sermo  plebeius  and  remind  us  greatly  of  the  Romance  languages  (Kiese, 
p.  xiii-xv).  About  100  M8S.  of  the  tale  are  known.  It  was  very  freely 
dealt  with,  and  arbitrarily  abridged  or  altered.  Three  principal  reduc- 
tions have  been  traced.  See  further  W.  S.  Teuffel,  Kom.  Lit.,  p.  560; 
also  Hohde  der  Griech.  Kom.,  p.  408,  etc. ;  Villemain,  Essai  sur  les 
Komans  grecs ;  Chassang,  Hist,  du  Kom.,  p.  411  ;  and  Nicolai,  Ges- 
chichte  Griech.  iii.  p.  362-3.  Thepopularity  of  this  romance  in  the  west 
was  due  to  the  combination  of  medifeval  romantic  elements,  both  Greek 
and  Eastern,  which  it  presented  in  a  dress  adapted  to  frankish  taste 
Cholevius  (ieschichte  der  Deutschen  Poesie  nach  iliren  antiken  Elomen- 
ten,  i.  p.  152  ;  Th.  Grasse  Die  Grossen  Sagenkreise  des  Mittelalters,  ii.  3. 


84  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

falls  in  love  with  liim,  and,  in  order  to  protract  liis  stay, 
requests  that  he  may  be  apjDointed  her  preceptor  in  those 
arts  in  which  he  had  shown  himself  so  skilful.  In  the 
course  of  his  instructions,  Apollonius  forgets  the  princess 
of  Syria,  and  lays  claim  to  the  hand  of  his  fair  pupil. 
Some  months  after  the  marriage  had  been  solemnized,  in- 
telligence arrives  that  Antiochus  and  his  daughter  had 
])een  struck  dead  by  lightning,  and  that  the  aj^pearance  of 
Apollonius  in  Syria  would  be  the  signal  of  a  general 
declaration  in  his  favour.  With  the  view  of  obtaining 
this  vacant  sovereignty,  he  sets  sail  with  his  wife,  who  gives 
birth  to  a  daughter  during  the  voyage  ;  but  while  in  a 
swoon,  into  which  she  had  soon  after  fallen,  she  is  believed 
dead,  and  from  the  superstition  of  the  crew  with  regard  to 
the  malignant  influence  of  corpses  at  sea,  she  is  immediately 
thrown  overboard  in  a  chest.  Apollonius  lands  in  a  state 
of  despair  on  the  coast  of  Syria,  where  he  entrusts  his 
infant  daughter  to  persons  on  whose  fidelity  he  could 
depend,  and  then  sets  out  as  a  wanderer  on  the  face  of  the 
earth.  Wlien  his  daughter  grows  up  she  is  carried  off  by 
pirates,  and  sold  at  a  Grecian  city,  where  she  is  preserved 
from  infamj^  by  the  compassion  and  continence  of  a  young 
man,  called  Athenagoras,  to  whose  embraces  she  was  pre- 
sented by  her  purchaser.  She  continues  to  earn  a  sub- 
sistence by  her  skill  in  music,  till  her  father,  who  in  the 
course  of  his  wanderings  had  arrived  at  that  city,  in  a 
mourning  and  dejected  habit,  attracted  by  the  heavenly 
melody  of  her  voice,  enters  her  humble  dwelling.  For  his 
solace  and  recreation,  she  sung  with  exquisite  pathos  the 
unhai3py  story  of  her  infancy,  from  which  Apollonius  dis- 
covered that  she  was  indeed  his  daughter.  He  affianced 
her  to  Athenagoras,  to  whom  she  had  been  indebted  for 
more  than  the  preservation  of  life,  and  then,  warned  by  a 
celestial  vision,  he  dej^arted  for  Ephesus.  There  he  foimd 
his  long-lost  queen,  who,  having  been  wafted  to  that  coast 
when  thrown  overboard,  had  been  picked  up  by  a  phy- 
sician, who  at  length  succeeded  in  restoring  the  almost 
extinguished  animation.^ 

Besides  the  Latin  prose  version  already  mentioned,  the 

^  A  version  of  the  History  of  Apollonius  is  found  in  a  Neo-Hellenic 
folk-tale,  No.  50  of  Hahn's  collection  5  in  the  South  Slavonic  countries 


CH.  I.]  HISTORY    OF    APOLLONIUS    OF    TYRE.  85 

romance,  or  history  of  Apollouius,  was  translated  into 
Latin  verse  about  tlie  end  of  the  twelfth  century,  by  God- 
frey of  Viterbo,  who  introduced  it  in  his  Pantheon,  or 
Universal  Chronicle,  as  part  of  the  history  of  Antiochus 
the  Third  of  Syria.  It  was  also  inserted  in  the  Gesta 
Romanorum  [c.  150],  which  was  written  in  the  four- 
teenth centiu'y,  and  became  soon  after  the  subject  of  a 
French  prose  romance,  which  was  the  ori^rin  of  the  English 
Kvnge  Apolyne  of  Tyre,  printed  by  Wynkin  de  Worde 
in  1510.^  It  was  from  the  metrical  version,  however,  of 
Godfrey  of  Viterbo,"  that  the  story  came  to  Gower,  who 
has  told  it  with  little  variation  in  his  Confessio  Amantis. 
Gower  is  introduced  as  speaking  the  prologue  to  each  of 
the  five  acts  of  Pericles,  prince  of  Tyre ;  whence  it  may  be 
presumed  that  the  author  of  that  play  derived  his  plot 
from  the  English  poet.  The  drama  of  Pericles,  as  is  well 
known,  has  been  the  subject  of  much  discussion ;  ^  the 
composition  of  the  whole,  or  greater  part  of  it,  -having 
been  attributed  to  Shakspeare,  by  some  of  his  commentators, 
chiefly  on  the  authority  of  Dryden : — 

Your  Ben  and  Fletcher  in  their  first  young  flight, 
Did  no  Voljwne,  no  Arbaces  write  ; 
Shakspeare's  own  muse  his  Pericles  first  bore, 
The  Prince  of  Tyre  is  elder  than  the  Moor. 

Besides  the  romances  which  have  been  enumerated, 
there  appeared  during  the  existence  of  the  eastern  emj^ire, 
a  number  of  Greek  tales,  chiefly  derived  from  mythological 
stories,  and  resembling  those  of  Parthenius  Nicenus ;  but 

several  confused  versions  are  also  current,  for  one  variant  of  which  sec 
Tales  from  Twelve  Tongues,  London,  1882  ;  The  Miller's  Daughter,  etc. 

^  In  the  library  of  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cambridge,  there  is  an 
Anglo-Saxon  version  of  the  Apollouius,  which  was  edited  by  B.  Thorpe, 
in  1834.  It  has  a  gap  in  the  middle  of  it  and  the  Kiddles  are  thus  lost. 
Ward,  Cat.  p.  162. 

^  Chaplain  and  Clerk  to  the  Emperors  Conrad  III.  (1138),  Frederick 
I.  (1152),  and  Henry  VI.  (1190-1198).  This  metrical  version  is  part  of 
a  chronicle  entitled  the  "  Pantheon,*'  dedicated  to  Pope  Urban  III. 
(1185-1187).— AVard,  Cat.,  p.  163  ana  169. 

^  Shakespeare  is  also  supposed  to  have  been  indebted  to  Lawrence 
Twayne's  compilation:  ''The  Patterne  of  painefull  Adventures,"  first 
published  probably  in  1576.  The  story  in  a  modern  dress  was  published 
by  ^L  le  Brun  in  1710,  under  the  title  of  Avantures  d'Apollunius  de 
'I'hyr.    Warton,  Hist.  Poet.,  ii.  p.  303  note. 


86  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

sometimes  combined  with  long  discussions  on  tlie  nature 
of  love/  However,  as  these  are  not  written  according  to 
the  rules  of  romance,  but  are  founded  on  heathen  fables, 
they  are  not  included  in  the  plan  that  I  have  adopted. 

A  curious  account  is  given  by  Huet,  of  a  romance  of 
disputed  authenticity,  which  appeared  under  the  name  of 
Athenagoras,  entitled,  Du  Vrai  et  Parfait  Amour.  A  copy 
of  this  work,  written  in  French,  was  sent,  in  the  year  1569, 
to  M.  Lamanc,  by  Martin  Fumce,  who  professes  himself 
to  be  merely  the  translator.  He  informs  us  in  the  preface 
that  he  received  the  Greek  copy  from  this  M.  Lamane,  who 
was  protonotary  to  the  cardinal  of  Armagnac;  that  he 
had  never  seen  any  other  manuscript  of  the  work,  and 
adds,  that  it  is  the  production  of  that  Athenagoras,  who 
addressed  an  apology  for  the  Christian  religion  to  the 
emperors  Marcus  Aurelius  and  Commodus,  which  woidd 
make  him  considerably  prior  to  Heliodorus.  In  1599, 
thirty  'years  after  it  was  written  or  translated  by  Fumee, 
the  romance  was  published  by  Bernard  of  Sanjorry,  with 
a  preface,  in  which  he  says  that  he  found  among  his 
papers  a  copy  of  the  work,  transcribed  from  the  manuscript 
which  Fumee  had  sent  to  M.  de  Lamane. 

Huet  sj^eaks  of  this  romance  at  considerable  length,  in 
the  work  I  have  so  often  quoted.  He  in  the  first  place 
extols  the  splendid  and  interesting  manner  in  which  the 
romance  opens.  "  There,"  says  he,  "  as  in  a  picture,  is 
represented  the  lofty  triumph  of  Paulus  Emilius,  where, 
amidst  so  many  remarkable  objects,  the  king  of  Macedon 
is  exhibited  loaded  with  chains,  and  hurried  along  with 
his  children  before  the  chariot  of  his  conqueror.  There 
the  enamoured  Charis,  grieving  beyond  measui-e  that  she 
had  fallen  into  the  j^ower  of  the  Romans,  and  that  she 
had  been  torn  from  Theogenes,  her  lover,  is  touched  with 
delight,  on  luiexpectedly  beholding  him  ;  and  at  the  same 
moment  is  affected  with  the  most  poignant  anguish,  be- 

^  Constantine  Manasses,  who  lived  in  the  reign  of  Manuel  Comnenus, 
(1143-1180)  composed  a  verse  romance  in  nine  books,  Tci  Kar  'Apicyrav- 
lpoi>  Kal  KaXXiOeav,  known  to  us  only  from  extracts  contained  in  the 
'Podiomd  of  Macarius  Chrysocephalos  (see  F.  Boissonade,  Marcian,  452). 
It  exceeds,  in  absurdity  of  style  and  extravagance,  all  previous  compo- 
sitions of  the  Erotic  School  (Villoison,  Aned.  Gr^ec,  ii.  75,  etc.).  For 
editions,  etc,  see  Nicolal,  Griech.  Literaturgeschichte,  p.  362. 


en.  I.]  GREEK    ROMANCES.  87 

cause  she  sees  him  amoiiijf  the  captives."  It  is  from  the 
house  of  Octavius,  a  Roman  ^^eiieral,  into  whose  power 
she  had  fallen,  that  Cliaris  views  the  triumph  that  excites 
such  jarrinjjf  emotions.  Melantjenia,  M-ho  tui-ns  out  to  be 
an  elderly  gentlewoman  of  Carthage,  but  was  at  that  time 
the  slave  of  Octavius,  is  sent  to  console  her.  These  two 
females  recount  to  each  other  their  early  loves  and  misfor- 
tunes, the  recital  of  which  occupies  the  first  six  books  of 
the  romance,  and  the  remaining  four  contain  the  adven- 
tures of  Cliaris  after  she  had  obtained  her  freedom  from 
Octavius,  which  are  in  the  usual  style  of  those  contained 
in  the  G-reek  romances. 

As  to  the  question  of  the  authenticity  of  this  produc- 
tion, the  authors  of  the  Bibliothcque  des  Romans  seem  to 
think  it  a  genuine  work,  but  do  not  enter  into  much  dis- 
cussion on  the  subject.  Huet  remarks,  that  the  intimate 
knowledge  shown  by  the  author,  of  all  those  things  which 
were  discovered  by  the  ancients,  both  in  nature  and  art ; 
— his  wonderful  acquaintance  with  the  history  of  past 
times,  and  the  ancient  errors  he  adopts,  into  which  a 
modem  would  scarcely  have  fallen ;  the  Greek  phraseology 
which  shines  even  through  the  mist  of  translation ;  and, 
above  all,  the  dignity  and  grace  of  antiquity,  which  cannot 
be  easily  imitated,  and  in  which  the  whole  work  is  clothed  ; 
all  conspire  to  vindicate  from  the  suspicion  of  forgery. 
The  bishop  then  proceeds  to  unfold  his  arguments  against 
the  genuineness  of  the  work,  many  of  which  are  not  more 
conclusive  than  those  adduced  in  favour  of  its  authen- 
ticity. The  first  reason  for  incredulity  is,  that  the  romance 
has  not  been  mentioned  in  the  dictionary  of  Photius; 
which,  if  admitted  as  a  proof  of  fabrication,  would  render 
spurius  the  romances  of  Longus,  Chariton,  and  the  three 
Xenophons.  Nor  is  the  argument  derived  from  the  sup- 
posed imitation  of  Heliodorus  altogether  conclusive,  since, 
upon  the  supposition  that  the  work  in  question  was  a 
genuine  production  of  Athenagoras,  Theagenes  and  Cha- 
riclea  may  as  probably  have  been  derived  from  Cliaris  and 
Theogenes,  as  these  from  the  former  appellations.  The 
non-existence,  however,  of  a  Greek  original  of  the  romance 
Du  Vrai  et  parfait  Amour,  necessarily  throws  the  omis 
jyrohandi  of  its  authenticity  on  its  defenders ;   and,  until 


88  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

produced,  a  strong  presumption  remains,  that  Charis  and 
Theogenes  is  nothing  more  than  a  partial  change  of 
Theagenes  and  Chariclea. 

The  impostui-e,  indeed,  is  clearly  detected  by  the  de- 
scription of  manners  and  institutions  unknown  in  the  age 
of  Athenagoras.  Thus  the  author  conducts  a  criminal 
trial  in  the  heart  of  G-reece,  according  to  the  form  of  pro- 
cess before  the  parliament  of  Paris.  The  priests  and 
virgins  introduced  in  the  romance,  as  consecrated  to  Ham- 
mon,  live  according  to  the  fashion  of  the  monks  and  nuns 
of  the  fifteenth  century,  and  not  like  those  who  existed  in 
the  early  ages  of  Christianity/ 

Huet  has  mentioned,  as  the  principal  defect  of  the 
romance,  that  it  is  loaded  with  descriptions  of  buildings, 
and  that  the  palaces  are  not  raised  by  the  magic  hand  of 
fiction,  but  by  a  professional  architect.  From  this  blemish 
Huet  has  drawn  his  chief  argument  against  the  authen- 
ticity of  the  work.  "It  is  universally  known,"  says  he, 
"  that  the  Cardinal  Armagnac  was  much  addicted  to  the 
study  of  architecture:  Philander,  the  commentator  on 
Vitruvius,  was  one  of  his  devoted  retainers,  was  the  most 
scientific  architect  of  his  age,  and  was,  besides,  well  in- 
formed in  every  branch  of  polite  literature.  Now,  since 
the  description  of  this  Athenagoras  are  closely  squared  to 
the  principles  of  architectui'e  inculcated  by  him  in  his 
annotations  on  Yitruvius,  may  it  not  reasonably  be  sus- 
pected, that  Philander  was  the  deviser  of  this  literary  im- 
posture, in  order  to  support  his  own  opinions  by  the  autho- 
rity of  antiquity  ?  The  fraud  might  have  been  detected, 
had  the  work  issued  from  the  hands  of  Philander,  or  the 
palace  of  the  cardinal.  That  he  might  remove  suspicion 
from  himself,  and  conduct  the  reader  as  it  were  to  other 
ground,  he  wrote  an  amatory  romance.  There,  as  if  inci- 
dentally, he  inserted  the  precepts  of  his  art,  and,  conceal- 
ing his  own  name,  he  ingeniously  employed  that  of  La- 
mane,  for  the  possessor  of  the  manuscript,  and  Fumee  for 
the  French  translator.  "  However  it  may  be,"  he  con- 
tinues, "  the  romance  is  ingeniously  contrived,  artfully 
conducted,  enlightened  with  unparalleled  sentiments  and 

^  Scholl,  Hist,  de  la  Lit.  Gr.,  and  Pauli,  Real.  Encj-l.  s.  v.  Atlienngoras, 
reject  the  work  as  spurious. 


CH.  I.]  GREEK    ROMANCES.  89 

2>recepts  of  morality,  and  adorned  with  a  profusion  of 
delii^htful  ima<jres,  most  skilfully  disposed.  The  incidents 
are  probable,  the  ej^isodes  are  deduced  from  the  main  sub- 
ject, the  language  is  perspicuous,  and  modesty  is  scrupu- 
lously observed.  Here  there  is  nothing  mean,  nothing 
unnatural  or  affected,  nothing  that  has  the  appearance  of 
childishness  or  sophistry."  Huet,  however,  comjjlains  that 
the  conclusion  of  the  fable  of  this  romance  is  far  removed 
from  the  excellence  of  the  introduction. 

I  have  now  taken  a  successive  view  of  the  G-reek  romances, 
and  have  attempted  to  furnish  such  an  analysis  of  them  as 
may  enable  the  reader  to  form  some  notion  of  their  nature 
and  qualities. 

One  equality,  it  is  obvious,  pervades  them  all,  and  it  is 
the  characteristic  not  only  of  Greek  romance,  but  of  the 
first  attempt  at  prose  fiction  in  every  country  :  The  interest 
of  each  work  almost  wholly  consists  in  a  succession  of 
strange,  and  often  improbable  adventures.  Indeed,  as  the 
primary  object  of  the  narrator  was  to  surprise  by  the  inci- 
dents he  rehearsed,  the  strangeness  of  these  was  the  chief 
object  to  which  he  directed  his  attention.  For  the  creation 
of  these  marvels  sufiicient  scope  was  afforded  him,  because, 
as  little  intercourse  took  place  in  society,  the  limits  of  pro- 
bability were  not  precisely  ascertained.  The  seclusion, 
also,  of  females  in  these  early  times  gave  a  certain  unifor- 
mity to  existence,  and  j^i'evented  the  novelist  from  painting 
those  minute  and  almost  imperceptible  traits  of  feeling  and 
character,  all  those  developments,  which  render  a  well- 
written  modern  novel  so  agreeable  and  interesting.  Still, 
amid  all  their  imperfections,  the  Greek  romances  are  ex- 
tremely 2)leasing,  since  they  may  be  considered  as  almost 
the  first  productions  in  which  woman  is  in  any  degree  re- 
presented as  assuming  her  proper  station  of  the  friend  and 
the  companion  of  man.  Hitherto  she  had  been  considered 
almost  in  the  light  of  a  slave,  ready  to  bestow  her  affec- 
tions on  whatever  master  might  happen  to  obtain  her  ;  but, 
in  Heliodorus  and  his  followers,  we  see  her  an  affectionate 
guide  and  adviser — we  behold  an  union  of  hearts  painted 
as  a  main-spring  of  our  conduct  in  life — we  are  delighted 
with  pictures  of  fidelity,  constancy,  and  chastity,  and  are 
encouraged  to  persevere  in  a  life  of  virtue  hy  the  happy 


90  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  I. 

consequences  to  which,  it  leads.  The  Grreek  romances  are 
less  valuable  than  they  might  have  been,  from  giving  too 
much  to  adventure,  and  too  little  to  manners  and  charac- 
ter ; — but  these  have  not  been  altogether  neglected,  and 
several  pleasing  pictures  are  delineated  of  ancient  customs 
and  feelings.  In  short,  these  early  fictions  are  such  as 
might  have  been  expected  at  the  first  effort,  and  must  be 
considered  as  not  merely  valuable  in  themselves,  but  as 
highly  estimable  in  pointing  out  the  method  of  awaking 
the  most  pleasmg  sympathies  of  our  nature,  and  affecting 
most  powerfully  the  fancy  and  the  heart. ^ 

^  Phlegon  of  Tralles  in  Lj^dia,  one  of  Hadrian's  freedmen,  may  further 
be  mentioned  before  dismissing  the  present  subject.  Under  his  name 
the  Emperor,  as  is  supposed,  wTOte  his  own  biography  (Spartiani  Vita 
Hadriani,  c.  16).  His  work  rrepl  ■^avjAaaiu)}'  (pi'inted  in  Jac.  GronoA'ii 
Thes.  Graec.  Anth.  viii.  p.  2694)  consists  of  a  collection  of  marvellous 
tales  and  ghost  stories,  not  altogether  unlike  those  which  ha^-e  been  so 
popular  in  the  German  literature  of  the  present  century.  The  first 
portion  of  the  book  is  lost,  and  therewith  the  commencement  of  the 
story  of  Philinnion  returned  from  the  grave  (borrowed  by  Phlegon  from 
a  letter  of  Hij^parchus,  Philipp's  Commandant  of  Amphipolis,  to 
Arrhidaeus,  see  Kohde,  p.  391),  which  Goethe  adapted  in  his  Bride  of 
Corinth.  The  tale  of  Phlegon  is  undoubtedly  connected  with  the  tales 
current  in  south-eastern  Eurojoe  of  vampyres,  and  dead  who  rise  from 
their  graves  and  suck  the  blood  of  the  living,  especially  of  their  nearest 
relatives,  and  called  in  modern  Greek  Buthrolakkas,  or  Burkolassas 
[l^oypKoXciKKCiQl. 

Here,  too,  are  found  the  stories  of  the  Succubi  {'finrov(jai),  or  female 
sprites  (Alp.).  See  Dobeneck,  Des  Deutschen  Mittelatus  Volksglaube, 
i.  32,  who  cites  a  i:)re-Christian  example  of  this  kind  of  being  from 
Philostratus. 

See,  further,  note  on  IMorgant  le  Geant,  Chassang,  p.  400,  the  tables 
of  Lamide,  Gorgons,  Ephialta,  Mormolyce,  iManducus. 

Another  fictionist  unmentioned  by  Dunlop  is  Damascius,  recorded  by 
Photius  (cod.  130),  but  without  any  biographical  information  about  him. 
He  was  probably  a  Christian  at  a  time  when  Christianity  had  become 
generally  diffused.  Photius  gives  only  the  titles  of  his  books  which  are  : — 
Of  Incredible  Stories,  352  chapters ;  Tales  of  Demons,  52  chapters ; 
Wonderful  Stories  of  Apparitions,  63  chapters,  and  of  Incredible  Natures, 
105  chapters.  Photius  pronounces  them  to  have  been  full  of  extrava- 
gances, and  of  gloomy  Pagan  superstition,  but  composed  in  a  clear  and 
elegant  style. — Lieb. 

A  contemporary  of  Theodorus  Prodromus,  Constantine  Manasses, 
composed  the  metrical  romance  of  Aristander  and  Callithea  in  nine  books. 
The  onl}'^  extracts  from  this  work  which  have  come  down  show  it  to  have 
contained  the  usual  accumulation  of  adventures  and  vicissitudes  found 
in  the  Greek  romances. 


CH.  I.]  GREEK    ROMANCES.  91 

In  goneral,  remarks  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt  (Wien.  Jalirb.  Bd.  26,  p.  46), 
speaking  of  the  later  Gi'cok  romances,  and  especially  the  works  of 
Eustathius,  Theodorus  Prodromus,  and  Nicetas  Euj^enianos,  the  perusal 
of  these  works,  important  as  they  are  for  the  knowledge  of  philology 
and  literature,  leaves  upon  the  reader  the  impression  conveyed  by  seeing 
an  old  man  in  his  dotage. 

The  contac-t  with  the  western  nations  effected  by  the  Crusades  with 
the  ertete  civilization  of  Byzantium,  and  French  domination  in  the  Morea, 
substituted  Frankish  romances  for  ancient  models,  or  poor  imitations 
thereof,  and  narrative  literature  received  themes  from  both  east  and 
west,  as  the  stories  of  the  Fankyatranta  and  Sindibad  had  already  been 
introduced  into  the  popular  Byzantine  literature  ;  separate  French  com- 
positions were  now  translated,  such  as  stories  from  the  Kound  Table,  of 
la  Belle  ^laguelonne,  Flores  and  Blanchefleur,  etc.  Many  of  these 
stories  became  in  tliis  way  so  popularized  that  they  are  still  recognizable 
in  the  modern  Greek  folk  tales.  (See  note  to  Apollonius,  p.  83,  and 
Nicolai-,  Gesch.  des  Xeugriech,  Literatur.  p.  11.)  An  instance  is  the 
story  of  the  good  Florentia,  or  the  history  of  the  faithful  wife  vainly 
tempted  by  her  brother-in-law  during  her  husband's  absence,  then 
turned  adrift,  resisting  the  amorous  proposals  of  divers  men  whom  she 
meets,  who  subsetjuently  come  to  be  healed  at  a  monastery  whither  she 
had  retired,  and  where  she  had  become  celebrated  for  miraculous  cures, 
and  whom  she  heals  from  their  ailments  upon  their  confessing  their 
guilt ;  whereupon  she  is  reconciled  to  her  husband.  For  an  account  of 
the  variants  of  this  story  of  the  good  Florentia  of  Kome,  see  Graesse, 
Literargeschichte,  iii.  i.  286,  287.  The  same  story  is  current  with  but 
little  difference  in  Janina  Hahn,  Griech.  Miirchen,  N.  16  (1,  p.  1  iO,  etc.). 
The  legend  probably  found  its  way  in  the  popular  mouth  from  some 
Greek  version  of  a  Frankish  original.  The  ultimate  source  of  the  Saga 
(which  is  found  in  various  forms,  such  as  that  of  Genoveva,  of  Crescentia, 
see  V.  d.  Hagen  Gesammtabentener,  vii.  and  i.  101 ;  also  (Esterley,  on 
Kirchofs  Wendunnuth,  2,  23;  G.  Kom.  249,  p.  747,  of  Hildegard ; 
Grimm.  Deutsche  Sagen,  N.  437)  is  to  be  found  in  the  Indian  cycle  of 
the  Papageienbuch  in  the  oldest  form  of  that  collection  which  is  accessible 
to  us,  Night  33,  as  well  as  in  the  Turkish  Tooti  Nameh  :  Rose,  i. 
89-108.  See  Eohde,  p.  5.33,  etc.,  and  Gidcl,  Etudes.  For  further 
information  on  the  periK'tuation  of  popular  fiction  among  the  Greeks, 
the  following  works  may  be  consulted  :  Berington's  •*  Literary  History 
of  the  Middle  Ages,"  Api)endix  I.  Bikelas,Die  Griechen  des  Mittelalters 
und  ihre  EinHues  auf  die  Europiiische  Cultur,  Giittersloh,  1878. 
Nicolai,  Geschichte  der  Neugriechischen  Literatur,  Leipzig,  1876. 
Gidel,  Etudes — Xouvelles  Etudes  sur  la  Litterature  gi-ecque  moderne, 
1866,  1878.  Schmidt,  Bernhardt,  Das  Volksleben  der  Neugriechen  und 
das  Hellenische  Alterthum,  Leipzig,  1871,  and  the  same  author's 
Griechische  Miirchen,  etc.,  1877.  Hahn,  Griechische  und  Albanesische 
Miirchen,  1864.  Miss  .J.  E.  Harrison's  "  Myths  of  the  Odyssey  in  Art 
and  Literature,"'  London,  1882.  Gerland,  Altgriechische  Miirchen  in 
der  Odyssee,  Magdeburg,  18G9.  (Jeldart,  Folklore  of  Modern  Greece, 
London,  1882.  W.  Wagner,  Shakespeare  in  Griechenland,  Leipzig, 
and  chaps.  21,  28-30,  of  Kev.  II.  F.  Tozer's  "  Kesearches  in  the  Highlands 
of  Turkey." 


CHAPTER  II. 

INTRODTJCTION  OF  THE  MILESIAN  TALES  INTO  ITALY. LATIN 

ROMANCES. PETRONIUS  ARBITER. APULEIUS,  ETC. 

THE  Milesian  Fables  had  found  their  way  into  Italy 
even  before  tliey  flourished  in  Greece.  They  had  been 
received  with  eagerness,  and  imitated  by  the  Sybarites,  the 
most  voluptuous  nation  in  the  west  of  Europe ;  whose 
stories  obtained  the  same  celebrity  in  Eome,  that  the 
Milesian  tales  had  acquired  in  Greece  and  Asia.  It  is  not 
easy  to  sjDCcify  the  exact  nature  of  the  western  imitations, 
but  if  we  may  judge  from  a  solitary  specimen  transmitted 
by  ^lian  in  his  Variae  Historise  (1.  14,  c.  20),  they  were  of 
a  facetious  descrijDtion,  and  intended  to  promote  merriment. 
A  pedagogue  of  the  Sybarite  nation  conducted  his  pupil 
through  the  streets  of  a  town.  The  boy  hapj^ened  to  get 
hold  of  a  fig,  which  he  was  proceeding  to  eat,  when  his 
tutor  interrupted  him  by  a  long  declamation  against  luxury, 
and  then  snatching  the  dainty  from  his  hand,  devoured  it 
with  the  utmost  greed.  This  tale  ^lian  says  he  had  read 
in  the  Sybarite  stories  ('^opiaig  avpapiTiKcug),  and  had  been 
so  much  entertained  that  he  got  it  by  heart,  and  committed 
it  to  writing,  as  he  did  not  grudge  mankind  a  hearty  laugh ! 
Many  of  the  Romans,  it  would  appear,  were  as  easily 
amused  as  ^lian,  since  the  Sybarite  stories  for  a  long 
while  enjoyed  great  popularity ;  and,  at  length,  in  the 
time  of  Sylla,  the  Milesian  tales  of  Aristides  were  trans- 
lated into  Latin  by  Sisenna,  who  was  praetor  of  Sicily,  and 
author  of  a  history  of  Rome.  Plutarch  informs  us  in  his 
life  of  Crassus  [c.  32] ,  that  when  that  general  was  defeated 
by  the  Parthians,  the  conquerors  found  copies  of  Milesian 
and  Sybarite  tales  in  the  tents  of  the  Roman  soldiers ; 
whence  Surena  expressed  his  contempt  for  the  effeminacy 
and  licentiousness  of  his  enemies,  who,  even  in  time  of  war, 
could  not  refrain  from  the  perusal  of  such  compositions. 


CH.  II.]  PETRONIUS    ARBITER.  93 

The  taste  for  the  Sybarite  and  Milesian  fables  increased 
during  the  reign  of  the  emperors.  Many  imitators  of 
Aristides  appeared,  particularly  Clodius  Albinus,  the  com- 
l>etitor  of  the  Emj)eror  Sever  us,  whose  stories  have  not 
reached  posterity,  but  are  said  to  have  obtained  a  celebrity 
to  which  their  merit  hardly  entitled  them.^  It  is  strange 
that  Severus,  in  a  letter  to  the  senate,  in  which  he  upbraids 
its  members  for  the  honours  they  had  heaped  on  his  rival, 
and  the  support  they  had  given  to  his  pretensions,  should, 
amid  accusations  that  concerned  him  more  nearly,  have 
expressed  his  chief  mortification  to  arise  from  their  having 
distinguished  that  person  as  learned,  who  had  grown  hoary 
in  the  study  of  old  wives'  tales,  such  as  the  Milesian-Punic 
fables. — Major  fuit  dolor,  quod  ilium  pro  literato  laudan- 
dum  plerique  duxistis,  cum  ille  neniis  Cjuibusdam  anilibus 
occupatus,  inter  Milesias  Punicas  Apuleii  suit,  et  ludicra 
literaria  conseuesceret,' 

But  the  most  celebrated  fable  of  ancient  Rome  is  the 
work  of  Petronius  Arbiter,  perhaps  the  most  remarkable 
fiction  which  has  dishonoured  the  literary  history  of  any 
nation.  It  is  the  only  fable  of  that  period  now  extant,^  but 
is  a  strong  proof  of  the  monstrous  corruption  of  the  times 
in  which  such  a  production  could  be  tolerated,  though,  no 
doubt,  writings  of  bad  moral  tendency  might  be  circulated 
before  the  invention  of  ])rinting,  without  arguing  the  de- 
pravity they  would  have  evinced,  if  presented  to  the  w^orlcl 
subsequent  to  that  period. 

The  work  of  Petronius  is  in  the  form  of  a  satire,  and, 
according  to  some  commentators,  is  directed  against  the 
vices  of  the  court  of  Nero,  who  is  thought  to  be  delineated 
under  the  names  of  Trimalchio  and  Agamemnon ;  an  opinion 

^  Milesias  nonnuUi  ejusdem  esse  dieunt,  quarum  fama  non  ignobilis 
haljetur,  quamvis  mediocriter  scripUe  sunt. — Capitohnus  vit.  Clod. 
Albini..  c.  11. 

-  Ibid.c.  12. 

^  And  extant  only  in  a  fragmentary  form.  Being  employed  for  ex- 
cerpts in  anthologies,  the  work  itself  was  all  the  sooner  lost,  which  it 
appears  to  have  been  as  early  as  the  seventh  century.  The  MSS.  known 
have  on  the  whole  the  same  gaps  and  corruptions,  and  must  therefore 
be  derived  from,  and  the  same  original  MSS.,  wliich  contained  only  ex- 
cerpts from  the  complete  works  of  Petronius. — Teuffel.  His.  Kom.  Lit. 
ii.  p.  88. 


94  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

which  has  been  justly  ridiculed  by  Voltaire  [Ecrivains  franc, 
du  Siecle  de  Louis  XIV.  s.  v.  Nodot],  The  satire  is  written 
in  a  manner  which  was  first  introduced  by  Varro ;  verses 
are  intermixed  with  prose,  and  jests  with  serious  remark. 
It  has  much  the  air  of  a  romance,  both  in  the  incidents  and 
their  disposition ;  but  the  story  is  too  well  known,  and  too 
scandalous,  to  be  ]3ai'ticularly  detailed.  The  scene  is  laid 
in  Magna  G-raecia ;  Eucolpius  [c.  91],  is  the  chief  character 
in  the  work,  and  the  narrator  of  events ; — he  commences  by 
a  lamentation  on  the  decline  of  eloquence  [c.  2],  and  while 
hstening  to  the  reply  of  Agamemnon,  a  professor  of  oratory, 
he  loses  his  companion  Ascyltos.  Wandering  through  the 
town  in  search  of  him  [c.  6],  he  is  finally  conducted  by  an 
old  woman  to  a  retirement  where  the  incidents  that  occur 
are  analogous  to  the  scene.  The  subsequent  adventures — 
the  feast  of  Trimalchio — the  defection  and  return  of  G-iton 
— the  amour  of  Eumolpus  in  Bythinia — the  voyage  in  the 
vessel  of  Lycus — the  passion  and  disappointment  of  Circe, 
follow  each  other  without  much  art  of  arrangement ;  an 
apparent  defect  which  may  arise  from  the  mutilated  form 
in  which  the  satire  has  descended  to  us. 

The  style  of  Petronius  has  been  much  applauded  for  its 
elegance — it  certainly  possesses  considerable  naivete  and 
grace,  and  is  by  much  too  fine  a  veil  for  so  defonned  a, 
body.^  Some  of  the  verses  also  are  extremely  beautiful. 
The  best  part  of  the  prose,  however,  is  the  well-known 
episode  of  the  matron  of  Ephesus  [c.  Ill,  112],  which,  I 
have  little  doubt,  was  originally  a  Milesian  or  Sybarite 
fable.  A  lady  of  Ej^hesus,  on  the  death  of  her  husband^ 
not  contented  with  the  usual  demonstrations  of  grief,  de- 
scended with  the  corpse  into  the  vault  in  which  it  was  en- 
tombed, resolving  there  to  perish  with  sorrow.  From  this 
design  no  entreaties  of  her  own  or  her  husband's  friends 
could  dissuade  her.  But  at  length  a  common  soldier,  who 
had  been  apjDointed  to  watch  the  bodies  of  malefactors 
crucified  in  the  vicinity,  lest  they  should  be  taken  down  by 
their  relations,  perceiving  a  light,  descended  into  the  vault,. 

^  The  council  of  Trent  declined  to  put  the  work  on  the  Index  on 
account  of  its  Latinity.  For  a  very  readable  account  of  Petronius,  who 
is  now  generally  considered  to  have  been  a  contemporary  of  Nero,  see 
Sincox,  Latin  Literature,  ii.  83. 


I 


CH.  II.]  PETRONIUS    ARBITER.  95 

where  lie  i^azed  on  the  beauty  of  the  mourner,  Avhoni  lie 
soon  jK^rsuaded  to  eat,  to  drink,  and  to  live.  That  very 
night,  in  her  funeral  garments,  in  the  eommencement  of 
her  grief,  and  in  the  toiiih  of  her  husband,  she  was  united 
to  this  new  and  unkno's\ni  lover.  When  the  soldier  ascended 
from  this  bridal  chamber,  he  found  that  the  body  of  a 
criminal  had  been  carried  off.  He  returned  to  his  mistress 
to  deplore  the  punishment  that  awaited  him  for  his  neglect, 
but  she  immediately  relieved  his  disquiet,  by  proposing 
that  the  corpse  of  the  husband,  whose  funeral  she  had  so 
vehemently  mourned,  should  be  raised,  and  nailed  to  the 
cross  in  room  of  the  malefactor. 

A  story  nearly  the  same  with  that  in  Petronius  exists, 
under  title  of  the  Widow  who  was  Comforted,  in  the  book 
known  in  this  country  by  name  of  the  Seven  wise  Masters,^ 
which  is  one  of  the  oldest  collections  of  oriental  stories. 
There,  however,  the  levity  of  the  widow  is  aggravated  by 
the  circumstance  that  the  husband  had  died  in  consequence 
of  alarm  at  a  danger  to  which  his  wife  had  been  exposed, 
and  that  she  consented  to  mutilate  his  body,  in  order  to 
give  it  a  perfect  resemblance  to  that  of  the  malefactor  which 
had  been  taken  down  from  the  cross. 

This  story  of  female  levity  has  frequently  been  imitated, 
both  in  its  classical  and  oriental  circumstances."  It  is  the 
Fabliau  De  la  femme  qui  se  fist  putain  siir  la  fosse  de  son 
mari.  The  Pcre  du  Halde,  in  his  History  of  China, 
informs  us  that  it  is  a  common  story  in  that  emj^ire ;  ^  but 
the  most  singular  place  for  the  introduction  of  such  a  tale 
was   the   Rule   and   Exercise   of  holy  Dying,  by  Jeremy 

^  See  Beufey  Pancha.  i.  460. 

2  In  the  Cento  Novelle  antiche,  No.  56,  Scrcambi,  Nov.  16,  Annibale 
Compeggi  and  Eustazio  Manfredi ;  in  French  by  St.  Evremond,  OKuvres 
Meslees,  i.  236,  London,  1705  ;  Tragicomedie  de  Pierre  Brinon,  Paris, 
1614;  Hist.  Theut.  franc,  iv.  188  ;  La  Fontaine,  La  Matrone  d'Ephese  ; 
Voltaire  in  Zadig,  c.  2,  Le  Nez  Coupe.  It  is  also  the  subject  of  The 
"Widow's  Tears,  a  comedy  of  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century, 
Dodsley's  Collection,  vol.  vi.  It  also  occurs  in  the  De  Nugis  Curialium 
(1.  viii.  c.  11)  of  John  of  Salisbury. 

^  A  wise  man  of  Song,  Chouang-tse  by  name,  meets  in  a  burial-place 
a  young  widow  who  is  fanning  her  husl)and's  grave  with  her  fan.  In 
reply  toChouang-tse's  in(iuiries,  she  explains  in  tears,  and  without  desist- 
ing, as  courtesy  required,  from  her  exercise,  that  she  had  promised  her 
husband  upon  his  death-bed  not  to  enter  wedlock  anew  until  the  mould 


96  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

Taylor,  where  it  forms  23art  of  the  5th  chapter,  entitled,  Of 
the  Contingencies  of  Death  and  Treating  our  Dead. 

The  Latin  writers  of  fiction  seem  to  have  been  uniformly 
more  haj^py  in  their  episodes  than  in  the  principal  subject. 
This  remark  is  particularly  applicable  to  the 

Golden  Ass 

of  Apuleius,  its  readers,  on  account  of  its  excellence,  as  is 
generally  sui^j^osed,  having  added  the  epithet  of  Grolden. 
Warburton,  however,  conjectures,  from  the  beginning  of 
one  of  Pliny's  epistles,  that  Aimce  was  the  common  title 
given  to  the  Milesian,  and  such  tales  as  strollers  used  to 
tell  for  a  piece  of  money  to  the  rabble  in  a  circle  :  "  Assem 
para  et  accipe  auream  fabulam"  [1.  ii.  ep.  20].  These 
Milesian  fables  were  much  in  vogue  in  the  age  of  Apuleius. 
Accordingly,  in  the  commencement  of  his  work,  he  allures 
his  readers  with  the  promise  of  a  fashionable  composition,^ 

at  one  end  of  tlie  grave-monnd  was  quite  dry,  a  desiccation  she  devoutly 
wished  and  assiduously  promoted  by  the  unflagging  employment  of  her 
fan.  Upon  Chouang's  proffer  of  assistance  she  produced  another  fan 
and  handed  it  to  him. 

The  sage,  on  returning  home,  relates  his  adventure  to  his  wife  Tien, 
who  reviles  the  widow,  and  protests  that  she  herself  after  such  bereave- 
ment would  never  re-marry.  Shortly  afterwards  Chouang  dies,  and  his 
widow  is  at  first  inconsolable.  However,  a  former  pupil  of  Chouang's 
puts  in  an  appearance,  and  desires  at  once  to  pay  the  last  tribute  of 
respect  to  the  remains  of  his  deceased  master,  and  then  to  avail  himself 
of  his  books  to  prosecute  his  studies.  The  widow  receives  him  into  her 
house,  falls  in  love  with  him,  and  their  marriage  is  forthwith  celebrated, 
>vhile  the  body  of  Chouang  is  thrust  into  a  wretched  shed.  When  about 
to  climb  into  the  nuptial  couch  the  bridegroom  is  seized  with  cramps, 
which  his  servant  says  can  only  be  cured  by  a  potion  composed  of  wine 
mixed  with  human  brain.  The  bride,  providing  herself  with  an  axe, 
hastens  to  the  place  where  the  corpse  of  her  late  husband  lay,  hews  open 
the  coffin,  and  is  about  to  proceed  as  summarily  with  the  skull,  when 
Chouang  awakes  from  a  long  trance,  and  returns  home  with  her.  The 
hollowness  of  her  previous  jirotestations  evinced  by  the  festal  signs 
visible  in  the  house,  Tien  hangs  herself  for  shame,  Avhile  her  husband 
sets  the  dwelling  and  all  within  it,  including  her  body,  on  fii-e,  the 
scholar  and  his  servant  have,  however,  secured  their  safety  by  flight. 
Chouang  thenceforward  devoted  himself  to  travel  and  philosophy — and 
celibacy. — The  General  History  of  China,  iii.  2)p.  134- 155,  London, 
1736.  This  story  is  also  iii.  and  No.  3  of  Contes  Chinois  traduits,  pub- 
lished by  Kemusat,  Paris,  1827. 

^  At  ego  tibi  sermone  isto  Milesio  varias  fabulas  conseram,  auresque 
tuas  benevolas  lepido  susurro  permulceam. 


CH.  II.]  APULEIUS THE    GOLDEN    ASS.  97 

thoiigli  he  early  insinuates  that  lie  has  deeper  intentions 
than  their  amusement. 

The  fable  is  related  in  the  person  of  the  author,  who 
commences  his  story  with  representing  himself  as  a  young 
man,  sensible  of  the  advantages  of  virtue,  but  immoderately 
addicted  to  pleasure,  and  curious  of  magic.  He  informs 
the  reader,  that  on  accoinit  of  some  domestic  affairs,  he  was 
obliged  to  travel  into  Thessaly,  the  country  whence  his 
family  had  its  origin.  At  his  entrance  into  one  of  the 
towns,  called  Hypata,  he  enquired  for  a  j^erson  of  the  name 
of  Milo.  and  being  directed  to  his  house,  rapped  at  the 
door.  On  what  security  do  you  intend  to  borrow  ?  said  a 
servant,  cautiously  unbolting  it ;  we  only  lend  on  pledges 
of  gold  or  silver.  Being  at  last  introduced  to  the  master, 
Apuleius  presented  letters  of  recommendation  from  Demeas, 
a  friend  of  the  miser,  and  was  in  consequence  asked  to 
remain  in  the  house.  Milo  having  dismissed  his  wife, 
desired  his  guest  to  sit  down  on  the  couch  in  her  place, 
apologizing  for  the  want  of  seats  of  a  more  portable  de- 
scription, on  account  of  his  fear  of  robbers.  Apuleius 
having  accepted  the  invitation  to  reside  in  the  miser's 
house,  went  out  to  the  public  bath,  and  on  the  way  reflect- 
ing on  the  parsimony  of  his  host,  he  bought  some  fish  for 
supper.  On  coming  out  from  the  market  he  met  Pithias, 
who  had  been  his  school-fellow  at  Athens,  but  was  at  that 
time  aedile  of  Hypata,  and  had  the  superintendence  of  pro- 
visions. This  magistrate  having  examined  the  fish  his 
friend  had  purchased,  condemned  them  as  bad,  ordered 
them  to  be  destroyed,  and  having  merely  reprimanded  the 
vendor,  left  his  old  companion  dismayed  at  the  loss  of  his 
supper  and  money,  and  by  no  means  satisfied  with  the  mode 
of  administering  justice  in  Thessaly. 

After  having  visited  the  bath,  Apuleius  returned  to  sleep 
at  Milo's  [1.  1],  and  rose  next  morning  with  the  design  of 
seeing  whatever  was  curious  in  the  city.  Thessaly  was  the 
country  whence  magic  derived  its  origin  ;  and  of  the  nature 
of  this  art  he  had  heard  and  even  witnessed  something  on 
his  journey  from  Rome.  Hence  he  imagined  that  every 
thing  he  saw  was  changed  from  its  natural  form,  by  the 
force  of  enchantment ;  he  expected  to  behold  the  statues 
walk,   and  to  hear  the  oxen  prophesy.     While  roaming 

I.  H 


98  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

tlirough  the  town  he  met  with  a  lady,  called  Byrrhena, 
who,  having  been  a  friend  of  his  mother,  invited  him  to 
lodge  at  her  house.  This  he  could  not  agree  to,  as  he  had 
already  aceej^ted  an  aj^artment  at  Milo's,  but  he  consented 
to  accompany  her  home  to  supper.  The  great  hall  in  this 
lady's  palace  is  splendidly  described,  and  an  animated 
account  is  given  of  a  statue  of  Victory,  and  a  piece  of 
sculpture  representing  Diana,  surrounded  by  her  dogs. 
Apuleius  is  warned  by  Byrrhena  to  beware  of  Pamphile,  the 
wife  of  Milo,  who  was  the  most  dangerous  magician  in 
Thessaly.  She  informs  him  that  this  hag  sj^ares  no  chaims 
to  fascinate  a  young  man  for  whom  she  conceives  a  passion, 
and  does  not  scruple  to  metamorphose  those  who  oppose 
her  inclinations.  Apuleius  returned  home,  hesitating 
whether  to  attach  himself  to  Pamphile,  in  order  to  be  in- 
structed in  magic,  or  to  her  servant  Fotis.  The  superior 
beauty  of  the  latter  speedily  fixed  his  resolution,  and  he 
consoled  himself  for  the  many  privations  he  endured  in  the 
house  of  Milo,  by  carrying  on  an  intrigue  with  this  damsel, 
who  acted  as  the  handmaid  of  Pamphile,  and  the  valet  of 
her  parsimonious  husband. 

One  night,  while  supping  at  the  house  of  Byrrhena, 
Apuleius  was  informed  that  the  following  day  being  the 
festival  of  Momus,  he  ought  to  honour  that  divinity  by 
some  merry  invention. 

Eeturning  home  somewhat  intoxicated,  he  perceived 
through  the  dusk  three  large  figures  attacking  the  door  of 
Milo  with  much  fury.  Suspecting  them  to  be  robbers,  who 
intended  to  break  in,  he  ran  his  sword  through  them  in 
succession,  and,  leaving  them  as  dead,  escaped  into  the 
house  [1.  2].  Next  morning  he  is  arrested  on  account  of 
the  trijjle  homicide,  and  is  brought  to  trial  in  a  crowded 
and  oj)en  court.  The  accuser  is  called  by  a  herald.  An 
old  man,  who  acted  in  this  capacity,  pronounced  a  ha- 
rangue, of  which  the  duration  was  limited  by  a  clepsydra, 
as  the  old  sermons  were  measured  by  hour-glasses.  Two 
women  in  deep  mourning  were  introduced  ;  one  lamented 
the  death  of  her  husband,  the  other  of  her  son,  and  both 
called  loudly  for  vengeance  on  the  murderer.  Apuleius 
was  found  guilty  of  the  death  of  three  citizens  ;  but  pre- 
vious to  his  execution  it  was  resolved  he  should  be  put  to 


CH.  II.]  APULEIUS — THE    GOLDEN    ASS.  99 

the  torture,  to  force  a  discovery  of  his  accomplices,  and  the 
necessary  preparations  were  accordingly  completed.  What 
had  chiefly  astonished  Apiileius  during  this  scene,  was, 
that  the  whole  court,  and  among  others  his  host  Milo, 
were  all  the  while  convulsed  with  laughter.  One  of  the 
women  in  mourning  now  demanded  that  the  dead  bodies, 
which  were  in  court,  should  be  uncovered,  in  order  that, 
the  compassion  of  the  judges  being  excited,  the  tortures 
might  be  increased.  The  demand  was  complied  with,  and 
the  task  assigned  to  Apuleius  himself.  The  risibility  of 
the  audience  is  now  accounted  for,  as  he  sees,  to  his  utter 
astonishment,  three  immense  leather  bottles,  which,  on  the 
preceding  night,  he  had  mistaken  for  robbers.  The  imagi- 
nary criminal  is  then  dismissed,  after  being  informed  that 
this  mock  trial  was  in  honour  of  the  god  Momus. 

On  returning  home  the  matter  was  more  fully  explained 
by  Fotis,  who  informs  Apuleius  that  she  had  been  em- 
2:>loyed  by  her  mistress  to  procure  the  hair  of  a  young 
Boeotian,  of  whom  she  was  enamoured,  in  order  to  prepare 
a  charm  which  would  bring  him  to  her  house  :  that  having 
failed  in  ol^taiuing  this  ingredient,  and  fearing  the  resent- 
ment of  her  mistress,  she  had  brought  her  some  goat's  hair 
which  had  fallen  from  the  scissors  of  a  bottle- shearer. 
Tliese  hairs  being  burned  by  the  sorceress,  with  the  usual 
incantations,  had  (instead  of  leading  the  Boeotian  to  her 
house,)  given  animation  to  the  skins  to  which  they  formerly 
adhered,  and  which  being  then  in  the  form  of  bottles, 
appeared,  in  their  desire  of  entrance,  to  assault  the  door  of 
Milo.  The  above  story  of  the  bottles  probably  suggested 
to  Cervantes  the  dreadful  combat  which  took  place  at  an 
inn  between  Don  Quixote  and  the  wine  skins,  which  he 
hacked  to  pieces,  suj^posing  all  the  while  that  he  was  cleav- 
ing down  giants  (book  iv.  c.  4). 

Apuleius  agreed  to  forgive  Fotis  the  uneasiness  she  had 
occasioned,  if  she  would  promise  to  exhibit  her  mistress  to 
him  while  engaged  in  one  of  her  magical  ojjerations.  On 
the  following  night  Fotis  came  to  him  in  great  agitation, 
and  informed  him  that  her  mistress  was  about  to  assume 
the  shape  of  a  bird,  to  fly  to  some  object  of  her  affections. 
Looking  through  an  opening  in  the  door,  he  saw  Pamphile 
take  out  several  bottles,  and  rub  herself  with  an  ointment 


100  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

contained  in  one  of  them.  Then  having  muttered  certain 
words,  her  body  is  covered  with  feathers,  her  nails  are 
lengthened  into  claws ;  and  forthwith,  in  shape  of  an  owl, 
she  flies  out  of  her  chamber.  Apuleius  next  requested 
Fotis  that  she  would  favour  him  with  some  of  the  ointment, 
that  he  might  follow  her  mistress  in  the  same  form,  to  his 
restoration  from  which  he  understood  nothing  farther  was 
necessary  than  a  draught  of  spring  water,  mixed  with 
anise  and  laurel  leaves.  Fotis,  however,  gave  him  a  diffe- 
rent ointment  from  that  which  she  had  intended,  so  that, 
instead  of  being  changed  into  a  bird,  he  assumed  the  figure 
of  an  Ass.  In  this  shaj^e  he  retains  his  former  feelings 
and  understanding,  but  is  told  by  Fotis  that  he  cannot  be 
restored  to  the  human  form  but  by  eating  rose  leaves. 

The  remainder  of  the  story  is  occupied  with  the  search  of 
Apuleius  after  this  valuable  article,  and  the  hardships  he 
suffers  under  the  degraded  form  to  which  he  was  reduced; 
a  part  of  the  work,  which  seems  in  its  hteral  significa- 
tion to  have  suggested  the  idea  of  such  compositions  as 
the  Adventures  of  a  Lap-dog,  the  Perambulations  of  a 
Mouse,  &c. 

Apuleius  in  the  first  place  descended  to  the  stable,  where 
he  was  very  roughly  treated  by  his  own  horse,  and  the  ass 
of  Milo.  In  a  comer  of  his  new  habitation  he  perceived 
the  shrine  of  Hippona,  the  goddess  of  stables,  adorned  with 
fresh-gathered  roses ;  but  in  attemj^ting  to  pluck  them  he 
was  beat  back  with  many  blows  by  his  own  groom,  who  felt 
indignant  at  the  meditated  sacrilege. 

At  this  instant  Milo' s  dwelling  was  broken  into  by  robbers, 
who,  having  pillaged  the  house,  loaded  the  horse  and  the 
two  asses  which  they  found  in  the  stable  with  the  booty. 
Apuleius  observed  several  rose  bashes  in  a  garden  through 
which  he  passed  on  his  way  to  the  habitation  of  the  ban- 
ditti; but  restrained  himself  from  partaking  of  their 
flowers,  lest  he  should  be  murdered  by  his  new  masters  on 
resuming  the  human  figure  [1.  3].  After  a  long  journey, 
and  when  almost  ready  to  sink  under  the  weight  of  his 
burden,  he  arrived  at  the  abode  of  the  robbers.  This 
residence  is  described  in  a  manner  extremely  similar  to  the 
habitations  of  banditti,  in  all  modern  romances.  We  have 
the   rugged    mountain,   impenetrable   forest,   inaccessible 


CH.  II.]  APULEIUS THE    GOLDEN    ASS.  101 

rocks,  and  even  the  solid  and  lofty  tower,  with  the  subter- 
raneous cavern.  In  this  f rij^htf ul  abode  supper  was  served 
up  by  an  old  woman,  who  was  the  only  domestic ;  and 
during  the  repast  another  troop  arrived  bearing  a  rich 
booty. 

At  daybreak  the  band  set  out  on  a  new  expedition,  and 
returned  a  few  hours  afterwards  with  a  young  lady  as  their 
prize,  whom  they  consigned  to  the  care  of  the  old  woman. 
She  informed  this  hag  that  she  had  been  carried  off  on  the 
day  of  her  nuptials  with  a  young  man,  to  whom  she  was 
much  attached.  The  old  woman,  to  alleviate  her  distress, 
entertained  her  with  a  story  which  she  said  was  taken  from 
the  Milesian  fables,  and  which  is  the  celebrated  tale  of 
Cupid  and  Psyche  [1.  4].' 

Apuleius  was  employed  in  different  expeditions  with  the 
robbers ;  he  also  made  several  attempts  to  escape  from 
their  power,  which  proved  abortive  [1.  6].  At  length,  one 
of  their  nimiber,  who  had  been  left  in  the  town  where 
Milo  resided,  returned  to  his  band,  and  informed  them 
that  they  were  not  not  suspected  of  the  robbery,  which 
hed  been  laid  to  the  charge  of  a  person  of  the  name  of 
Apuleius,  who  had  forged  letters  from  a  friend  of  Milo, 
and  had  disappeared  after  pillaging  the  house.  He  also 
introduced  a  stranger,  who  represented  himself  as  the  cele- 
l^rated  robber  Hemus,  the  terror  of  all  Thessaly  ;  and  who, 
of  consequence,  was  gladly  chosen  the  leader  of  the  ban- 
ditti. Apuleius,  by  attending  to  the  conversation  which 
passed  between  this  person  and  the  young  lady,  discovered 
that  the  pretended  outlaw  was  her  husband,  who  had 
assumed  a  false  character,  in  order  to  effect  her  escape. 
This  he  accomplished  one  evening  by  intoxicating  his  com- 
panions, when,  having  bound  them  with  cords,  and  placed 
his  bride  on  the  back  of  Apuleius,  he  returned  with  her  to 
the  town  in  which  she  had  formerly  resided. 

There  is  a  striking  coincidence  of  the  occurrences  at  the 
habitation  of  the  rol)bers  with  some  of  the  early  incidents 
in  Gil  Bias.  The  gloomy  habitation  of  the  robbers — the 
manner  in  which  it  is  secured — the  revelry  of  the  banditti 
— the  old  woman  by  whom  they  are  attended — the  arrival 

^  See  infra,  p.  107,  etc. 


102  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.   II. 

of  a  new  troop  during  the  entertainment — the  captivity  of 
the  young  lady  and  final  escaj)e,  are,  I  think,  resemblances 
too  strong  to  have  been  merely  accidental. 

The  new  master  of  Aj)uleius,  in  gratitude  for  the  service 
he  had  rendered,  determined  he  should  be  sent  to  his 
mares  in  the  country,  to  aid  in  the  propagation  of  mules. 
Unfortunately  the  groom  he  was  entrusted  to  had  a  wife, 
who  totally  marred  the  amorous  expectations  of  Apuleius, 
by  setting  him  to  turn  a  mill.  Nor  was  his  situation 
improved  when  the  groom,  at  length  recollecting  his  orders, 
sent  him  on  the  service  to  which  he  was  originally  destined  ; 
as  he  met  with  a  most  inhospitable  reception  from  some 
horses  who  were  his  fellow  suitors. 

After  this  mortification,  Apuleius  was  employed  to  bring 
burdens  of  wood  from  the  mountains,  under  the  guidance 
of  a  boy,  who  treated  him  with  the  utmost  cruelty,  and 
spread  such  a  report  of  his  mischievous  disposition,  that 
he  was  at  the  point  of  being  for  ever  disqualified  for  the 
multiplication  of  mules  [1.  7].  Intelligence,  however,  op- 
portunely arrived  that  his  master  had  been  treacherously 
murdered  by  a  former  lover  of  his  wife's,  and  that  this 
lady,  after  taking  a  savage  revenge  on  her  perfidious 
admirer,  had  laid  violent  hands  on  herself.  On  receiving 
this  intelligence,  the  groom  pillaged  his  master's  house  in 
the  country,  loaded  Apuleius  with  the  booty,  and  fled  with 
the  rustics  who  were  his  accomplices.  In  the  course  of 
their  journey  through  a  wild  and  desolate  country,  they 
met  with  various  adventures ;  and  at  length  arrived  in  a 
populous  town,  where  the  groom  resolved  to  fix  his  resi- 
dence. Here  Apuleius  was  purchased  by  an  old  eunuch, 
one  of  the  priests  of  the  Syrian  goddess.  While  in  his 
possession  he  was  witness  to  the  dreadful  debaucheries  of 
the  ministers  of  that  divinity  ;  and  inadvertently  braying 
with  astonishment  at  their  excesses,  one  of  the  neighbours, 
who  had  lost  an  ass,  burst  into  the  house,  which  rendered 
public  the  infamy  of  these  wretches. 

In  consequence  of  this  exposure,  the  eunuchs  were 
obliged  to  remove  to  another  town,  whither  Apuleius, 
bearing  the  statue  of  the  Syrian  goddess,  accompanied 
them.  Here  they  lodged  in  the  house  of  one  of  the  inhabi- 
tants, who  had  a  great  veneration  for  that  deity.     A  dog 


CH.  II.]  APULEIUS THE    GOLDEN    ASS.  103 

uufortunately  ran  off  with  a  liauncli  of  venison,  with  which 
he  had  intended  to  entertain  her  votaries.  The  cook  i>ro- 
posed  to  hantc  himseli'  in  despair,  but  his  wife  persuaded 
him  to  leave  that  operation  as  his  last  resource,  and  mean- 
while to  substitute  an  ass's  leg  in  room  of  the  one  he  had 
lost.  Apuleius  having  understood  that  he  w^as  the  intended 
victim  [1.  8],  rushed  into  the  hall  where  the  host  was 
entertaining  the  priest,  and  overset  the  tables.  A  report 
having  been  circiUated  that  a  mad  dog  had  been  seen  in 
the  stable,  this  act  of  Apuleius  was  ascribed  to  hydrophobia  ; 
and  he  would  have  been  sacrificed  to  this  suspicion,  if  he 
had  nor  instantly  drunk  some  water  from  a  vase. 

The  eunuchs  soon  after  removed,  and  in  travelling  about 
with  them,  Apuleius  heard  the  recital  of  the  tale  concern- 
ing the  tub  which  forms  the  second  story  of  the  seventh 
day  of  the  Decameron.  Apuleius  at  length  was  sold  at 
the  market  of  one  of  the  towns  through  which  he  passed, 
to  a  baker,  who  meets  with  the  adventure  related  by 
Boccaccio  in  the  tenth  novel  of  the  fifth  day  [1.  9].  He 
next  fell  into  the  possession  of  a  gardener,  from  whom  he 
was  forcibly  carried  off  by  a  Roman  soldier,  and  sold  to 
two  brothers  who  lived  together ;  the  one  being  the  cook, 
and  the  other  the  pastry-cook,  of  a  man  of  wealth  and 
importance.  When  they  went  out  they  made  it  a  rule 
to  lock  the  door  of  the  tent  in  which  they  baked  and 
dressed  victuals,  and  left  only  their  ass  in  it.  At  their 
return  they  invariably  found  that  the  pastry  and  other 
provisions  had  disappeared.  As  the  ass  always  left  his 
corn  and  hay  imconsumed,  he  became  an  object  of  sus- 
picion ;  and  being  watched  one  day  by  the  brothers,  was 
detected  at  his  dainty  repast.  The  cooks  were  much  enter- 
tained with  the  spectacle,  and  the  account  of  this  piece  of 
epicurism  having  reached  the  ears  of  their  master,  Thyasus, 
Apuleius  was  purchased  by  him,  and  taught  a  variety  of 
tricks  by  one  of  his  freedmen.  The  possession  of  this 
singular  animal  threw  much  lustre  on  the  proprietor,  in 
the  estimation  of  his  fellow-citiaens,  and  he  was  in  con- 
sequence appointed  chief  magistrate  of  Corinth  for  five 
consecutive  years. 

Apuleius  was  also  of  great  value  to  the  freedman  who 
had  charge  of  him,  as  he  was  exhibited  for  money  to  the 


104  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

inhabitants.  He  received  besides  frequent  visits  from 
ladies,  whicli,  at  their  solicitation,  he  was  privately  sent  to 
return.^ 

A  splendid  fete  was  now  given  by  his  master,  in  honour 
of  his  election  to  the  magistracy.  The  judgment  of  Paris 
was  represented,  and  Apuleius  was  destined  to  act  a  prin- 
cipal part  in  a  species  of  afterpiece,  which  was  by  no  means 
consonant  to  his  feelings  as  a  public  exhibition. 

He  fled,  unperceived,  to  the  fields,  and  having  galloj^ed 
for  three  leagues,  he  came  to  a  retired  spot  on  the  shore  of 
the  sea.  The  moon,  which  was  in  full  splendour,  and  the 
awfid  silence  of  the  night,  insj^ired  him  with  sentiments  of 
devotion.  He  purified  himself  in  the  manner  prescribed 
by  Pythagoras,  and  addressed  a  long  prayer  to  the  great 
goddess  Isis.  In  the  course  of  the  night  she  appeared  to 
him  in  a  dream  ;  and,  after  giving  a  strange  account  of 
herself,  announced  to  him  the  end  of  his  misfortunes ;  but 
demanded,  in  return,  the  consecration  of  his  whole  life  to 
her  service.  When  he  awakens  from  this  dream,  he  feels 
confirmed  in  the  resolution  of  aspiring  to  a  life  of  virtue. 
On  this  change  of  disposition,  and  conquest  over  his 
passions,  the  author  finely  represents  all  Nature  as  assum- 
ing a  new  face  of  cheerfulness  and  gaiety.  "  Tanta  hilari- 
tudine,  prseter  peculiarem  meam,  gestire  mihi  cuncta  vide- 
bantur,  ut  pecua  etiam  cujuscemodi,  et  totas  domos,  et 
ipsam  diem  serena  facie  gaudere  sentirem  "  [1.  11]. 

While  in  this  frame  of  mind,  Apuleius  jDcrceived  an 
innumerable  multitude  advancing  towards  the  shore,  to 
celebrate  the  festival  of  Isis.  Amid  the  crowd  of  priests 
he  remarked  the  sovereign  pontiff,  with  a  crown  of  roses  on 
his  head ;  and  approached  to  pluck  them.  The  pontiff, 
yielduig  to  a  secret  inspiration,  held  forth  the  garland. 
Apuleius  resumed  his  former  figure,  and  the  j^romise  of 
the  goddess  was  fulfilled.  He  was  then  initiated  into  her 
rites,  returned  to  Eome,  and  devoted  himself  to  her 
service.  This  information,  he  remarks,  will  not  surprise 
those  who  know  that  he  is  decurion  of  the  temple  of  Osiris, 

^  See  La  Pucelle,  chant,  xx.  note  4.  "  L'ane  d' Apulee  (says  Vol- 
taire) ne  parla  point ;  il  ne  put  jamais  prononcer  que  Oh  et  non :  mais 
il  eut  une  bonne  fortune  avec  une  dame,  comme  on  pent  le  voir  dans 
1' Apuleius  en  deux  volumes  in  4°  cu?n  7iotis  ad  tcsiim  Delphini" — Lieb. 


CH.  II.]  APULEIUS THE    GOLDEN    ASS.  105 

and  who  are  not  ii^norant  that  Isis  and  Osiris  are  one 
divinity  [1.  11].' 

Apiileius  was  finally  invited  to  a  more  mystic  and 
solemn  initiation,  by  the  goddess  herself,  who  rewarded 
him  for  his  accumulated  piety,  by  an  abundance  of  temporal 
blessings. 

Such  is  the  general  outline  of  the  subject  of  the  G-olden 
Ass,  which  the  contemporaries  of  the  author,  and  critics 
of  the  succeeding  age,  regarded  as  a  trivial  fable,  written 
with  the  sole  intention  of  amusing  the  vulgar:  "  Quibus 
fabulis,"  says  Macrobius,  "  Ajjuleium  nonuunquam  lusisse 
miramur."  At  an  early,  though  subsec[uent  period,  a  very 
different  opinion  was  adopted.  It  was  no  longer  ques- 
tioned that  Apuleius  had  some  profound  intention ;  but  it 
was  not  agreed  in  what  his  aim  consisted.  St.  Augustine 
[De  Civ.  Dei.  xviii.,  18,]  pennitted  himself  to  doubt  whether 
the  account  given  by  Apuleius  of  his  change  into  an  ass, 
was  not  a  true  relation.  "  Aut  iridicavit,"  says  he,  "  aut 
finxit."  The  popular  sentiment  was,  that  the  work  was 
chiefly  intended  as  a  satire  on  the  vices  of  the  author's 
countiymen ;  and  that,  in  imitation  of  a  great  predecessor, 
he  had  been  too  anxious  to  particularize  the  maladies 
which  he  wished  to  remedy,  Beroaldus,  the  learned  com- 
mentator on  Apuleius,  imagines  the  transformation  into 
an  ass  to  signify  that  man  becomes  brutified  when  im- 
mersed in  sensual  pleasures ;  but  that  when  roses  are 
tasted,  by  which  science  and  wisdom  are  typified,  he  re- 
turns to  religion  and  virtue ; — a  change  which  is  allego- 
rically  painted  by  a  restoration  to  the  human  form. 

In  his  "Divine  Legation  of  Moses"  [Book  iv.  §  4], 
Dr.  Warburton  has  entered  into  much  learned  and  inge- 
nious, though  often  far-fetched  speculation,  on  this  subject. 
He  introduces  this  topic,  (which,  at  first  sight,  seems  to 
bear  a  veiy  remote  analogy  to  the  mission  of  the  Jewish 
legislator,)  while  attempting  to  demonstrate  that  all  nations 

'  The  remark  placed  in  the  mouth  of  Apuleius  by  Dunlop  probabl}' 
refers  to  the  passage  (Ed.  Oudendorp,!.  xi.  p.  817)  : — ''Osiris  . . .  nesacris 
suis  gregi  cetero  permixtus  deservirem,  in  collegium  me  Pastophorum 
suorum,  immo  inter  ipsos  Decurionum  quiniiuennales  elegit.'"  And 
(ibid.,  p.  811)  *'  Connexa.  immo  vero  unica  ratio  numinis  religionis()ue." 

— LlEB. 


106  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

have  inculcated  the  general  doctrine  of  a  Providence,  and 
the  belief  in  a  future  state  of  rewards  and  punishments, 
by  some  circumstantial  and  popular  method,  as  the  Insti- 
tution of  Mysteries.  The  learned  prelate  contends  that 
the  author  had  conceived  an  inveterate  dislike  to  the  Chris- 
tian religion.  He  j^roves,  from  several  passages  in  the 
Apology,  another  work  of  Apuleius,  that  his  brother-in- 
law,  by  whom  he  was  prosecuted  on  a  charge  of  magic, 
was  of  this  persuasion ;  and  in  the  Golden  Ass,  the  vices 
of  the  baker's  wife  are  summed  up,  by  informing  us  that 
she  was  a  Christian  [1.  9] ; — hence  his  prepossession  in 
favour  of  the  pagan  worship  was  increased,  and  he  was 
induced  to  compose  a  work  for  the  express  pui-pose  of 
extolling  this  superstition,  and  recommending  an  initiation 
into  its  mysteries,  as  a  remedy  for  all  vices  whatever.  On 
this  system,  the  author  of  the  Divine  Legation  proceeds 
to  explain  the  prominent  incidents  of  the  romance.  The 
ancients  believed  that  a  deliverance  from  a  living  death 
of  brutality  and  vice,  and  a  return  to  a  new  existence  of 
virtue  and  happiness,  which  form  the  principal  subject  of 
the  Golden  Ass,  might  be  effected  by  initiation  into  the 
mysteries.  Byrrhena  is  the  representation  of  virtue  ;  Apu- 
leius refuses  her  invitation,  and  gives  way  to  his  passion 
for  pleasure  and  magic,  till  the  crimes  and  follies  into 
which  they  lead  him,  end  in  his  transformation  to  a  brute ; 
in  which  shape  every  change  of  condition  makes  his  situa- 
tion more  wretched  and  contemptible.  The  description  of 
the  enormities  committed  by  the  priests  of  Cybele  is  in- 
tended as  a  contrast  to  the  pure  rites  of  Isis.  Roses,  by 
which  the  restoration  to  the  human  form  is  effected,  were, 
among  the  ancients,  symbols  of  silence ;  a  requisite  quality 
of  the  initiated,  particularly  among  the  Egyptians,  who 
worshipped  Harpocrates,  the  first-born  of  Isis  : — hence  the 
statues  of  Isis  were  crowned  with  chaplets  of  these  flowers, 
and  hence  the  phrase,  "  under  the  rose,"  has  become  in 
modern  times  proverbial.  The  solemn  initiation,  which  is 
fully  described,  and  the  account  of  which  concludes  the 
work,  agrees  with  what  other  writers  have  delivered 
concerning  the  mysteries. 

If  the   Golden  Ass  of  Apuleius  was  written,  as  War- 
burton  believes,  in   support  of  the  pagan  worship,  it  is 


CH.  II.]  CUPID    AND    PSYCHE.  107 

perhaps  strauge  that  its  author  shouhl  have  chosen,  as  a 
prototype,  the  Ass  of  Luciaii ;  which,  like  many  other 
works  of  that  satirist,  was  inteuded  to  ridicule  the  hea- 
then mythology.  Both  compositions  derived  their  origin 
from  the  writings  of  Lucius  Patrensis,^  which  are  not  now 
extant ;  hut  are  supposed  to  have  been  an  account  of  me- 
tamorphoses according  to  the  popular  theology.  One  of 
these  transformations  was,  for  the  sake  of  ridicule,  adopted 
by  Lucian  in  his  Ass ;  which,  though  the  leading  incidents 
are  the  same,  is  a  mere  sketch  or  outline  of  the  Golden 
Ass  of  the  Roman.  Thus  Apuleius  has  added  the  story  of 
the  assassination  of  the  bottles,  and  the  mock  trial  which 
ensued.  He  has  also  given  a  serious  and  sacred  air  to  the 
restoration  to  the  human  form,  which  Lucian  accidentally 
effects  by  plucking  some  roses  from  a  bystander,  when 
condemned  to  an  exhibition  similar  to  that  from  which 
Apuleius  escaped.  The  long  description  of  the  initiation 
into  the  mysteries,  is  substituted  for  the  ludicrous  inci- 
dent which  terminates  the  adventures  of  Lucian ;  who 
having,  in  his  original  shape,  sought  refuge  with  a  lady  in 
whose  sight  he  often  found  favour  as  an  ass,  was  turned  out 
with  disgrace  on  accoimt  of  the  diminution  of  his  charms. 
The  Golden  Ass  is  also  enriched  with  numerous  episodes, 
which  are  the  invention  of  Apuleius,  or  at  least  are  not  to 
be  found  in  the  work  of  Lucian,  Of  these,  the  best  known, 
and  by  far  the  most  beautiful,  is  the  story  of 

Cupid  and  Psyche, 

which  is  related  by  the  female  servant  of  the  banditti  to 
the  young  lady  whom  the^  had  taken  captive  [1.  4,  5,  6]. 

A  certain  king  had  three  daughters,  of  whom  the 
youngest  and  most  lovely  was  named  Psyche.  Her  charms 
indeed  were  so  wonderful,  that  her  father's  subjects  began 
to  adore  and  pay  her  the  homage  which  should  have  been 
reserv^ed  for  Venus.  The  exasperated  goddess  commands 
her  son  to  avenge  her  on  this  rival,  by  inspiring  Psyche 
with  a  passion  for  some  unworthy  object ;  but  while  em- 
ployed in  this  design,  Cupid  himself  becomes  enamoured 

^  See  .supra,  p.  IG. 


108  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

of  the  princess.  Meanwhile,  in  obedience  to  the  response 
of  an  oracle,  Psyche  is  exposed  on  a  barren  rock,  where 
she  is  destined  to  become  the  prey  of  a  monster.  From 
this  hapless  situation  she  is  borne  by  the  commissioned 
Zephyr,  who  wafts  her  to  a  green  and  delightful  valley. 
Here  she  enjoys  a  refreshing  sleep ;  and  on  awakening 
perceives  a  grove,  in  the  centre  of  which  was  a  fountain, 
and  near  the  fountain  a  splendid  palace.  The  roof  of  this 
structure  was  supported  by  golden  pillars,  the  walls  were 
covered  with  silver,  and  every  species  of  animal  was  repre- 
sented in  exquisite  statuary  at  the  jDortal :  Psyche  enters 
this  edifice,  where  a  splendid  feast  is  prepared ;  she  hears 
a  voice  inviting  her  to  partake  of  this  repast,  but  no  one 
appears.  After  this  sumptuous  banquet  is  removed,  she 
listens  to  a  delightful  concert,  which  proceeds  from  unseen 
musicians.  In  this  enchanting  residence  she  is  espoused 
and  visited  every  night  by  Cupid.  Her  husband,  who  was 
ever  invisible,  forbids  her  to  attempt  to  see  him ;  adding, 
that  her  happiness  depended  on  obedience  to  the  prohi- 
bition. In  these  circumstances  Cupid,  at  her  earnest  soli- 
citation, reluctantly  agrees  to  bring  her  sisters  to  the 
palace.  These  relatives,  being  envious  of  the  happiness  of 
their  younger  sister,  try  to  persuade  her  that  her  husband 
is  a  serpent,  by  whom  she  would  be  ultimately  devoured. 
Psyche,  though  by  this  time  she  should  have  been  sufii- 
ciently  qualified  to  judge  how  far  this  suspicion  was  well 
founded,  resolves  to  satisfy  herself  of  the  truth  by  oracular 
demonstration.  Bearing  a  lamp  in  one  hand,  and  a  dagger 
in  the  other  to  destroy  him  should  he  prove  a  monster,  she 
approaches  the  couch  of  her  husband  while  he  is  asleep. 
In  the  agitation  produced  by  the  view  of  his  angelic  form, 
she  allows  a  drop  of  scalding  oil  to  fall  on  liis  shoulder. 
The  irritated  god  flies  from  her  presence,  aud  leaves  her  a 
prey  to  remorse  and  despair.  The  enchanted  garden  and 
the  gorgeous  palace  vanish  along  with  him.  Psyche  finds 
herself  alone  and  solitary  on  the  banks  of  a  river.  Under 
the  protection  of  Pan  she  wanders  through  the  country, 
and  successively  arrives  at  the  kingdom  of  her  sisters,  by 
each  of  whom  she  is  rei^ulsed.  The  victim  equally  of  the 
rage  of  Venus  and  of  her  son,  she  roams  through  all  regions 
of  the  earth  in  search  of  the  celestial  lover  whose  favour 


CH.   II.]  CUPID    AND    PSYCHE.  109 

she  had  forfeited.  She  is  also  subjected  to  various  trials 
bv  Venus,  one  of  which  is  to  bring  water  from  a  fountain 
guarded  by  ever-watchful  dragons.  Jupiter,  at  length, 
takes  pity  on  her  misfortunes,  endows  her  with  immor- 
tality, and  confirms  her  union  with  her  forgiving  husband. 
On  this  occasion  the  Hours  empurple  the  sky  with  roses ; 
the  Graces  shed  aromatic  odours  through  the  celestial 
halls ;  Apollo  accompanies  the  lyre  with  his  voice ;  the 
god  of  Arcadia  touches  his  sylvan  reeds ;  and  the  Muses 
join  in  the  chorus. 

This  allegory  is  supposed  by  some  writers  to  be  founded 
on  an  obscure  tradition  of  the  fall  of  man,  and  to  form  an 
emblem  of  his  temptation,  transgression,  repentance,  and 
subsequent  reception  into  the  favour  of  the  godhead.  Its 
meaning,  however,  is  probably  more  restricted,  and  only 
comprehends  the  progress  of  the  soul  to  perfection,  the 
possession  of  divine  love,  and  reward  of  immortality.  From 
the  earliest  times  the  influence  of  religious  sentiments  has 
been  typified  by  the  hopes  and  fears  of  an  amatory  attach- 
ment. This  style  of  composition  was  adopted  by  the 
rhapsodists  of  Hindostan  and  Persia,  and  bewitched  the 
luxuriant  imagination  of  the  wisest  of  mankind.^  Bryant, 
in  his  Analysis  of  Ancient  Mythology  (vol.  ii.  388),  in- 
forms us  that  one  of  the  emblems  among  the  Egyptians 
was  Psyche  (^i/y//,)  who,  though  represented  as  a  beauti- 
ful female,  was  originally  no  other  than  the  Aurelia,  or 
buttei-fly,  an  insect  which  remains  in  a  state  of  torpor  dur- 
ing winter,  but  at  the  return  of  spring  comes  forth  vdth 
new  life,  and  in  beautiful  attire.  This  was  deemed  a  pic- 
ture of  the  soul  of  man,  and  of  the  immortality  to  which 
he  aspired  ;  and  more  particularly  of  Osiris,  who,  after 
being  confined  in  a  cofiin,  enjoyed  a  renewal  of  life.  This 
second  birth  is  described  under  the  character  of  Psyche, 
and  as  it  was  the  fruit  of  divine  love,  of  which  Eros  was 

^  See  Benfey  Pantschatantra,  i.  255.  Schopenhauer  was  led  to  the 
same  conchision  upon  internal  evidence  (Parerga,  ii.  444).  Niehbuhr 
(Kleine  Schriften,  2te  Samml.,  p.  263)  seems  to  consider  Italy  as  the 
original  home  of  the  fable.  Dr.  Zinzow  (Rohde  ueber  Lucian,  p.  18) 
sees  a  radically  Greek  impress  in  the  legend,  and  considers  it  is,  at  least 
in  the  form  it  is  found  in  in  Apuleius.  as  genuinely  Milesian.  There  is 
said  to  be  a  distinct  parallel  to  the  Story  of  Eros  and  Psyche  in  the  folk 
tales  of  Zululand.     See  also,  infra,  note  to  Perrault. 


110  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

the  emblem,  we  find  him  often  introduced  as  a  concomitant 
of  Psyche\ 

Whatever  may  be  the  concealed  meaning  of  the  allegory, 
the  story  of  Cupid  and  Psyche  is  certainly  a  beautiful  fic- 
tion. Of  this,  the  number  of  translations  and  imitations 
may  be  considered  as  a  proof.  Mr.  Rose,  in  the  notes  to 
his  version  of  Partenoj^ex  de  Blois,  has  pointed  out  its 
striking  resemblance  to  that  romance,  as  also  to  the  Three 
Calendars,  and  to  one  of  the  Persian  Tales.'     The  prohibi- 

^  The  archaeological  as  well  as  the  symbolical  aspect  of  the  legend 
will  be  found  treated  at  length  in  Dr.  A.  Zinzow's  "  Psyche  und  Eros," 
Ein  Milesisches  Marchen,  etc.,  Halle,  1881.  The  fable  has  been  ex- 
plained in  many  ways  ever  since  the  interpretation  of  Eulgentius 
(sect,  vi.),  which  is  the  earliest  that  has  come  down  to  us. 

^  The  parallelism  which  has  been  pointed  out  by  Grimm  and  others 
between  the  classic  Romance  and  the  tale  of  the  Woodcutter's  Daughter 
appended  to  the  collection  of  Indian  stories,  called  Somadeva  Biiatta 
(German  translation  by  H.  Brockhaus,  Leipzig,  1843,  Th.  ii.  p.  190), 
cannot  be  overlooked.  See  also  Hildebrand's  edition  of  Apuleius, 
-p.  xxvii. ,  etc. 

The  story  of  the  woodcuttei-'s  daughter  is  here  given  for  the  English 
reader  : — 

In  an  Eastern  realm  lived  a  poor  woodcutter,  Nur  Singh,  with  his 
wife  and  his  daughter  Tulisa.  When  the  beautiful  Tulisa  was  grown  up 
she  went  one  day  into  the  wood,  and  as  she  approached  a  ruined  fountain, 
a  voice  called  her  by  name,  and  asked  thrice  if  she  would  be  his  wife. 
She  sought  her  father,  who  consented,  in  view  of  the  wealth  which  was 
promised  to  him.  As  the  nuptial  day  drew  nigh  precious  bridal  gifts 
were  borne  into  the  hut  by  unseen  hands.  The  bride,  beautifully 
arrayed,  came  with  her  parents  to  the  fountain.  First,  the  father  had 
to  place  upon  Tulisa's  tinger  a  ring,  which  came  floating  through  the 
ah'.  Then  a  splendid  repast  was  made  in  tent  hard  by ;  and  at  last 
appeared  a  litter,  which  the  bride  entered  with  fear  and  hesitation. 
Unseen  carriers  bore  her  away.  The  parents  followed,  and  arrived  at 
a  valley  where  stood  a  great  palace,  through  whose  doors  the  litter  dis- 
appeared ;  so  they  turned  back  home,  with  their  minds  at  ease. 

The  woodcutter  became  rich,  but  was  calumniated  by  his  envious 
neighbours,  thrown  into  prison,  and  condemned  by  the  king  to  death. 
On  the  morrow,  when  the  sentence  was  to  be  enforce(l,  all  the  inhabi- 
tants were  slain  by  serpents.  The  woodcutter  and  the  king  alone  in 
the  city  remained  alive.  Upon  the  prayer  of  the  king,  the  wood- 
cutter summoned  his  invisible  son-in-law ;  and  the  serpents  were  com- 
manded to  revive  the  slain  by  the  means  known  alone  to  them  (in 
Spring  time). 

Meanwhile  Tulisa  lived  very  happily  with  her  spouse,  whom  she  (like 
Psyche)  saw  only  at  night ;  she  was  not  at  liberty  to  quit  the  palace, 
where,  however,  all  delights  were  provided  for  her.     Once  she  rescued  a 


CH.  II.]  CUPID    AND    PSYCHE.  Ill 

tiou  of  Cupid,  aiul  tlie  transgression  of  Psyche,  has  sug- 
gested the  Serpent  in  Vert  of  Mad.  d'Auhioy ;  indeed  the 
labours  to  which  Psyche  is  subjected  seem  to  he  the  origin 

squirrel  which  she  saw  pursued  by  a  hirger  animal,  anrl  the  squirrel 
became  her  friend.  Nevertheless  she  languished  for  intercourse  with 
mortals.  Une  day  slie  l)eheld  from  her  window  an  old  woman,  who  im- 
plored her  to  be  allowed  to  enter.  She  was  moved  by  her  enti'eaties, 
and  let  down  a  sheet  from  the  window,  by  means  of  which  the  old 
•woman  mounted.  The  old  woman  counselled  her  to  beg  her  husband  to 
eat  out  of  the  same  dish  with  her.  In  the  evening  TuTisa  did  so.  Her 
spouse  consented,  but  eat  nothing.  Some  time  afterwards  another  old 
woman  came  in  the  same  way  to  her,  who  counselled  her  to  ask  her  hus- 
band to  give  her  as  a  sign  of  his  love  a  betel  leaf  to  chew,  and  hand  her 
food.  But  again  he  evaded  her.  A  third  old  woman  advised  her  to  ask 
her  husband  his  nanjie.  He  conjured  her  to  refrain  from  doing  this,  as 
it  would  bring  ruin  upon  her ;  but  she  persisted.  At  last  he  brought 
her  to  a  river  brink,  and,  as  she  still  persisted  in  her  question,  he  went 
slowly,  ever  repeating  his  request,  into  the  water,  until  only  his  head 
and  shoulders  were  visible.  And  as  she  still  persevered,  he  cried  out, 
••  My  name  is  Basnak  Dow  I  "  Then  a  serpent's  head  rose  from  the 
water,  and  he  sank  in  the  stream  ;  and  we  see  the  nether  god  of  Light 
thus  sinks  beneath  the  Hood,  separated  from  her  by  the  earth  goddess. 

Tulisa  now  stood  again  (in  her  earthly  nature)  in  her  torn  garments; 
her  palace  had  disappeared,  and  she  found  her  parents,  too,  in  their  old 
poverty.  Their  complaints  and  reproaches  pained  her  in  the  poverty  to 
which  she  had  grown  unaccustomed,  and  still  more  she  herself  yearned 
for  the  bliss  she  had  lost.  Once  she  fell  asleep  in  the  forest,  whither 
she  had  returned  as  of  yore  to  collect  wood,  and  there,  as  she  awoke,  she 
heard  two  squirrels  conversing.  From  them  she  learned  that  the  wicked 
mother  of  her  husband  had  regained  all  her  power,  in  consequence  of  the 
moi-tal  spouse  of  her  son  having  been  persuaded  by  her  confederate 
Sarkasoukis,  disguised  as  an  old  woman,  to  ask  after  his  name ;  that  he 
had  now,  according  to  his  netherworld  nature,  become  King  of  Snakes; 
and  there  w  as  but  one  means  to  give  back  to  Basnak  Dow  his  former 
power,  viz.,  for  Tulisa  (as  Goddess  of  Moonlight)  to  go  eastwards,  until 
she  reached  a  broad  stream  teeming  with  snakes.  This  she  must  swim 
across,  and  seek  on  the  opposite  bank  the  nest  of  the  bird  Huma,  and 
place  its  egg  in  her  breast  until  it  should  be  hatched.  Then  she  must 
go  to  the  palace  of  her  wicked  mother-in-law,  the  goddess  of  the  under 
world,  and  oWec  her  services.  If  she  is  unable  to  perform  the  task 
exacted  of  her,  she  will  be  devoured  by  sei-pents,  and  remain  with  her 
husband  in  the  under  world,  according  to  her  earthly  nature. 

Tulisa  set  out  on  her  (Moon)  wandering  as  she  reached  the  Snake 
River  (Milky  Way),  which  she  crossed  unharmed  on  a  raft,  which  she 
constructed  of  reecls  and  pitchers,  and  encouraged  by  two  squirrels. 
Bees  and  squirrels  conducted  her  to  the  Huma's  nest,  whose  egg  she 
disposed  of  as  directed.  At  last  she  reaches  the  palace  of  the  queen, 
whom  she  finds  lying  upon  cushions,  with  the  green  snake  round  her 
neck.     Tulisa's  first  (Spring)  task,  to  collect  in  a   crystal   vase   the 


112  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  II. 

of  all  fairy  tales,  particularly  Gracieuse  et  Percinet.^  The 
whole  story  has  also  been  beautifully  versified  by  Marino 
in  his  poem  L'Adone.  Cupid  is  introduced  in  the  fourth 
book  relating  it  for  the  amusement  of  Adonis,  and  he  tells 
it  in  such  a  manner  as  to  form  the  most  pleasing  episode 
of  that  delightful  poem.  I  need  not  mention  the  well- 
known  imitation  by  Fontaine,  nor  the  drama  of  Psyche, 
which  was  performed  with  the  utmost  magnificence  at 
Paris  in  1670,  and  is  usually  published  in  the  works  of 
Moliere,  but  was  in  fact  the  effort  of  the  united  genius  of 
that  author,  Corneille,  Quinault,  and  Lulli. 

Nor  have  the  fine  arts  less  contributed  to  the  embellish- 
ment of  this  fable  :  the  marriage  of  Cupid  and  Psyche  has 
furnished  Raphael  with  a  series  of  paintings,  which  are 
among  the  finest  of  his  works,  and  which  adorn  the  walls 
of  the  Farnese  Palace  in  the  vicinity  of  Rome.  In  one 
compartment  he  has  represented  the  council  of  the  gods 
deliberating  on  the  nuptials — in  another  the  festival  of  the 
reconciliation.  The  frieze  and  casements  are  painted  with 
the  sufferings  of  Psyche,  and  the  triumphs  of  Cupid  over 
each  individual  god. 

The  monuments,  too,  of  ancient  sculj^ture  rej^resented 
Cupid  and  Psyche  in  the  various  circumstances  of  their 
adventures.^     It  is  from  an  ancient  intaglio,  a  fine  onyx  in 

fragrance  of  a  thousand  blossoms,  which  grew  in  a  garden  en- 
closed with  high  walls.  Unnumbered  bees  brought  each  their  little  bag 
of  scent,  and  the  vase  was  soon  tilled.  Next  day  a  large  vessel  of  seed 
was  given  her,  from  which  she  was  to  make  a  set  of  jewels.  Squirrels 
came  trooping  to  her,  put  gems  in  the  vessel,  and  took  a  similar  number 
of  seeds  out,  so  that  every  seed  on  the  earth  was  changed  to  a  gem. 
This  second  task  fulfilled,  Tulisa  learns  from  her  friends  the  squirrels 
that  Sarkasukis  can  only  be  prevented  from  entering  the  castle  by  burn- 
ing certain  herbs.  Tulisa  fumigates  incessantly,  until  the  young  Huma, 
the  Spring-bird-god,  is  hatched.  He  grew  with  incredible  rapidity ; 
flew  to  the  queen's  shoulder ;  pecked  out  the  eyes  of  the  green  (Winter) 
serpent.  The  queen  shrieked;  Sarkasukis  fell  to  earth  as  a  hideous 
devil.  Long  processions  of  genii,  of  (new  born)  squirrels,  and  (moulted 
snakes)  bore  their  ruler,  Basnak  Dow  (the  new-born  Spring-god  of  Light 
and  the  Earth),  up  from  the  deep  (,to  his  recovered  throne).  And  Tulisa 
is  reunited  with  him  as  queen  of  a  spiritual  world  (in  heaven  and  on 
earth),  and  her  parents  received  their  lost  wealth  again.    See  supp.  note. 

^  See  Cinderella,  La  Belle  au  Bois,  Ranking,  Streams,  Lond.  1872. 

2  In  this  connection  should  be  mentioned  the  Eros  in  the  British 
Museum,  which  has  been  ascribed  to  Praxiteles,  and  the  Psyche  in  the 


CH.  II.]  CUPID    AND    PSYCHE.  113 

possession  of  the  Duke  of  Marlborough,  and  from  another, 
of  which  there  is  a  print  in  Spence's  "  Polymetis,"  that 
Darwin  lias  drawn  his  beautiful  picture  in  the  fourth  canto 
of  the  Botanic  Garden : — 

So  pure,  so  soft,  with  sweet  attraction  shone 
Fair  Psyche  kneeling  at  the  ethereal  throne, 
Won  with  coy  smile  the  admiring  court  of  Jove, 
And  warmed  the  bosom  of  unconciuered  Love. 
Beneath  a  moving  shade  of  fruits  and  Howers, 
(.)nward  they  march  to  Hymen's  sacred  bowers; 
With  lifted  torch  he  lights  the  festive  train 
Sublime,  and  leads  them  in  his  golden  chain ; 
Joins  the  fond  pair,  indulgent  to  their  vows. 
And  hides  with  mystic  veil  their  blushing  brows. 
Round  their  fair  forms  their  mingling  arms  they  fling, 
Meet  with  warm  lip,  and  clasp  with  rustling  wing. 

Museum  at  Naples,  a  fine  example  of  Grieco-Roman  art.  Both  works 
are  unfortunately  mutilated. 

The  first  rendering  of  Apuleius  into  English  was  not  until  the  year 
1566,  but  the  book  must  have  taken  a  very  speedy  hold  upon  the  pubhc 
fancy.  For  shortly  after  1579  we  find  Stephen  Gosson,  a  precursor  of 
Prynne  and  Jeremy  Collier,  stigmatizing  the  Golden  Asse  amongst  the 
books  which  he  mentions  as  having  •'  been  thoroughly  ransackt  to  fur- 
nish the  Playhouses."'  There  seems  no  evidence,  however,  for  this 
sweeping  statement  of  any  greater  foundation  than  the  fact,  for  which 
he  vouches,  of  a  play  on  the  subject  of  Cupid  and  Psyche  having  been 
'■  played  at  Paules,''  and  probably  no  other  portion  of  the  book  was 
dramatized. 

The  quarto  first  edition  of  1566.  translated  by  William  Adlington,  was 
reprinted  in  1571,  1596.  1600,  and  1639.  An  octavo  edition,  now  very 
rare,  was  published  in  15S2.  A  translation  by  J.  Lockman  was  pub- 
lished in  1744,  another  by  Thomas  Taylor  in  1822,  and  another  by  Sir 
G.  Head  in  1851.  An  English  edition  of  the  works  of  Apuleius  was 
published  in  1853  by  Mr.  Bohn.  Of  the  poetical  treatment  of  the  Myth 
in  England,  the  first  instance  (apart  from  that  lost  play  cited  above) 
would  seem  to  be  Cupid's  Courtship  ;  or,  the  Celebration  of  a  Marriage 
between  the  God  of  Love  and  Psiche.  mentioned  by  Hazlitt.  This  was 
followed  in  1637  by  S.  Marmion's  "A  Morall  Poem,  intituled  the 
Legend  of  Cupid  and  Psyche,  etc.,"' and  in  1799  by  a  now  forgotten 
poem  by  Mr.  Hudson  Gurney.  Mrs.  Tighe,  in  the  year  1805.  produced 
a  poem  on  the  same  subject,  which  went  through  twi>  later  editions. 
This,  as  well  as  Mr.  Gurney's  poem,  are  affixed  to  Mr.  Bohn's  edition, 
already  mentioned.  But  it  was  reserved  for  our  own  times  to  give  the 
worthy  rendering  of  the  story  in  the  poem  of  Cupid  and  Psyche,  with 
which  Mr.  William  Morris  opens  the  second  volume  of  his  Earthly 
Paradise.  See  B.  M.  Uanking,  Streams  from  Hidden  Sources.  Lend., 
1872.     See  supp.  note  at  end  of  vol. 


CHAPTER  III. 

ORIGIN     OF     ROMANTIC      FICTION     IN     EUROPE. ROMANCES 

OF    CHIVALRY    RELATING    TO    THE    EARLY   AND    FABULOUS 
HISTORY    OF     BRITAIN,    PARTICULARLY     TO     ARTHUR   AND 

THE    KNIGHTS    OF    THE  ROUND  TABLE. MERLIN. SAINT- 

GRAAL. PERCEVAL. LANCELOT    DU    LAC. MELIADUS. 

TRISTAN. ISAIE     LE    TRISTE. — ARTUS. GYRON. PERCE- 
FOREST. ARTUS    DE    LA    BRETAGNE. CLERIADUS. 

FABULOUS  narrative,  we  have  seen  in  a  former  part  of 
this  work,  hke  almost  every  one  of  the  arts  of  man, 
originated  in  the  desire  of  perfecting  and  improving  nature, 
of  rendering  the  great  more  vast,  the  rich  more  splendid, 
and  the  gav  more  beautiful.  It  removed,  as  it  were,  from 
the  hands  of  fortune  the  destinies  of  mankind,  rewarded 
virtue  and  valour  with  success,  and  covered  treachery  and 
baseness  with  oj^probrium. 

It  was  soon  perceived  that  men  sympathize  not  with 
armies  or  nations,  but  with  individuals  ;  and  the  poet  who 
sung  the  fall  of  empires,  was  forced  to  place  a  few  in  a 
prominent  hght,  with  whose  success  or  misfortunes  his 
hearers  might  be  affected,  while  they  were  altogether  in- 
different to  the  rout  or  dissection  of  the  crowds  by  which 
they  were  followed.  At  length,  it  was  thought,  that  nar- 
ratives might  be  composed  where  the  interest  should  only 
be  demanded  for  one  or  two  individuals,  whose  adventures, 
happiness,  or  misery,  might  of  themselves  afford  delight. 
The  experiment  was  attended  with  success ;  and  as  men 
sympathize  most  readily  with  events  which  may  occur  to 
themselves,  or  the  situations  in  which  they  have  been,  or 
may  be,  the  incidents  of  fiction  derived  their  character 
from  the  manners  of  the  age.  In  a  gay  and  luxurious 
country  stories  of  love  became  acceptable.  Hence  the 
Grecian  novels  were  composed,  and  as,  in  relating  the  ad- 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  115 

veutures  of  the  lovers,  it  was  iiatural  to  depict  what  might 
really  have  taken  place,  the  general  features  of  the  times, 
the  inroads  of  jnrates,  religious  ceremonies,  etc.  were  chiefly 
delineated.  The  ascetic  habits  of  the  monks  in  like  manner 
gave  rise  to  spiritual  romance,  and  the  notion  of  tran- 
quillity in  the  fields  of  Greece  may  have  suggested  the 
beautiful  rural  images  portrayed  in  the  pastoral  of 
Longus. 

Now,  when,  by  some  great  convulsion,  a  vast  change  is 
effected  in  manners,  the  incidents  of  fiction  will  necessarily 
be  changed  also ;  first,  because  the  former  occurrences 
become  less  natural,  and,  secondly,  give  less  delight.  From 
the  very  nature  then  of  domestic  fiction,  it  must  vary  with 
the  forms  and  habits  and  customs  of  society,  which  it  must 
picture  as  they  occur  successively, 

*'  And  catch  the  manners  living  as  they  rise." 

Never,  in  the  annals  of  the  human  race,  did  a  greater 
change  of  manners  take  place  than  in  the  middle  ages,  and 
accordingly,  we  must  be  prepared  to  expect  a  prodigious 
alteration  in  the  character  of  fictitious  literature,  which, 
we  have  seen,  may  be  expected  to  vary  with  the  manners  it 
would  describe.  But  not  only  was  there  a  change  in  the 
nature  of  the  characters  themselves,  and  the  adventures 
which  occurred  to  them,  but  a  very  peculiar  style  of  embel- 
lishment was  adopted,  which,  as  it  does  not  seem  to  have 
any  necessary  connection  with  the  characters  or  adventures 
it  was  employed  to  adorn,  has  given  the  historians  of 
literature  no  little  labour  to  explain.  The  species  of  ma- 
chinery, such  as  giants,  dragons,  and  enchanted  castles, 
which  forms  the  seasoning  of  the  adventures  of  chivalry, 
has  been  distinguished  by  the  name  of  Romantic  Fiction ; 
and  we  shall  now  proceed  to  discuss  the  various  systems 
which  have  been  formed  to  account  for  its  origin. 

Different  theories  have  been  suggested  for  the  purpose 
of  explaining  the  origin  of  Romantic  Fiction  in  Europe. 
The  subject  is  curious,  but  is  involved  in  much  darkness 
and  uncertainty. 

To  the  northern  Scalds,  to  the  Aral»ians,  to  the  people 
of  Armorica  or  Britany,  and  to  the  classical  tales  of  anti- 
quity, has  been  successively  ascribed  the  origin  of  those 


116  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

extraordinary  fables,  which  have  been  "  so  wildly  dis- 
figured in  the  romances  of  chivalry,  and  so  elegantly 
adorned  by  the  Italian  Muse." 

In  the  investigation  of  this  subject,  a  considerable  con- 
fusion seems  to  have  arisen,  from  the  supporters  of  the 
respective  systems  having  blended  those  elements  of  ro- 
mance which  ought  to  be  referred  to  separate  origins. 
They  have  mixed  together,  or  at  least  they  have  made  no 
proper  distinction  between,  three  things,  which  seem,  in 
their  elementary  principles  at  least,  to  be  totally  uncon- 
nected. 1.  The  arbitrary  fictions  of  romance,  by  which  I 
mean  the  embellishments  of  dragons,  enchanters,  etc.  2. 
That  spirit  of  enterprise  and  adventure  which  pervaded  all 
the  tales  of  chivalry.  3.  The  historical  materials,  if  they 
deserve  that  name,  relating  to  Arthur  and  Charlemagne, 
which  form  the  ground-work  of  so  large  a  proportion  of 
this  class  of  compositions. 

In  treating  this  subject  it  will  therefore  be  proper  to 
consider,  1.  The  origin  of  those  wild  and  improbable  fic- 
tions, those  supernatural  ornaments,  which  form  the  ma- 
chinery of  Romance,  and  which  alone  should  be  termed 
Eomantic  Fiction.  2.  The  rise  of  that  spirit  of  chivalry 
which  gave  birth  to  the  eagerness  for  single  combat,  the 
fondness  for  roaming  in  search  of  adventures,  and  the 
obligation  of  protecting  and  avenging  the  fair  ;  and,  lastly, 
we  shall  consider  how  these  fabulous  embellishments,  and 
this  spirit  of  adventure,  were  appropriated  to  the  story  of 
individual  knights,  and  treat  of  those  materials  concerning 
Arthur  and  the  Round  Table,  and  the  Peers  of  Charle- 
magne, whose  exploits,  real  or  fictitious,  have  formed  the 
subject  of  romance. 

I.  One  theory  (which,  I  believe,  was  first  adopted  by  M. 
Mallet  ^)  is,  that  what  are  termed  the  arbitrary  fictions  of 
romance,  have  been  exclusively  derived  from  the  northern 
Scalds.  This  system  has  been  strenuously  maintained  by 
subsequent  writers,  and  particularly  by  Dr.  Percy,^  who 
observes,  that  the  Scalds  originally  performed  the  functions, 
of  historians,  by  recording  the  victories  and  genealogies  of 
their  princes  in  a  kind  of  narrative  song.     When  history^ 

'  Introduction  a  I'Histoire  de  Dannemarc. 
^  Eeliques  of  Ant.  Eng.  Poetry,  vol.  iii.  p.  3. 


CH.   III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  117 

by  being  committed  to  prose,  assumed  a  more  stable  and 
more  simple  form,  and  was  taken  out  of  their  hands,  it 
became  their  business  chiefly  to  entertain  and  delight. 
Hence  they  embellished  their  recitals  with  marvellous  fic- 
tions, calculated  to  allure  the  gross  and  ignorant  minds  of 
their  audience.  Long  before  the  time  of  the  crusades,  they 
believed  in  the  existence  of  giants  and  dwarfs,  in  spells 
and  enchantments.  These  became  the  ornaments  of  their 
works  of  imagination,  and  they  also  invented  combats  with 
dragons  and  monsters,  and  related  stories  of  the  adven- 
tures of  knights  with  giants  and  sorcerers. 

Besides  this  assumption,  Dr.  Percy  also  maintains,  that 
the  spirit  of  chivalry,  the  eagerness  after  adventure,  and 
the  extravagant  courtesy,  which  are  its  chief  characteristics, 
existed  among  the  northern  nations  long  before  the  intro- 
duction of  the  feudal  system,  or  the  establishment  of 
kuighthood  as  a  regular  order. 

These  fictions  and  ideas,  he  asserts,  were  introduced  into 
Normandy  by  the  Scalds,  who  probably  attended  the  army 
of  Rollo  in  its  migration  to  that  province  from  the  north. 
The  skill  of  these  bards  was  transmitted  to  their  successors 
the  minstrels,  who  adopted  the  reHgion  and  opinions  of 
the  new  countries.  In  place  of  their  pagan  ancestors  they 
substituted  the  heroes  of  Christendom,  whose  feats  they 
embellished  with  the  Scaldic  fictions  of  giants  and  en- 
chanters. Such  stories  were  speedily  propagated  through 
France,  and  by  an  easy  transition  passed  into  England 
after  the  Norman  Conquest. 

A  second  hypothesis,  which  was  first  suggested  by  Sal- 
niasius,^  and  which  has  been  followed  out  by  Mr.  T. 
"Warton,^  ascribes  to  the  Saracens  the  foundation  of  romantic 
fiction.  It  had  at  one  time  been  a  received  opinion  in 
Euroj^e,  that  the  wonders  of  Arabian  imagination  were 
first  communicated  to  the  western  world  by  means  of  the 
crusades ;  l)ut  Mr.  Wart  on,  while  he  argues  that  these 
expeditions  tended  greatly  to  propagate  this  mode  of 
fabling,  contends  that  these  fictions  were  introduced  at  a 
much  earlier  peri«;)d  by  the  Arabians,  who,  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  eighth  century,  settled  in  Spain.     Through 

'  See  Huet,  de  lOrig.  d.  Rom.,  p.  131. 

^  Hist,  of  Eng.  Poetry,  vol.  i.  pp.  91.  etc.  ed.  1871. 


118  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

that  country  tliey  disseminated  those  extravagant  inven- 
tions peculiar  to  their  fertile  genius.  Those  creations  of 
fancy,  the  natural  offspring  of  a  warm  and  luxuriant 
climate,  were  eagerly  received,  and  colder  imagmations 
were  kindled  by  the  presence  of  these  enlivening  visitors. 
The  ideal  tales  of  the  eastern  invaders,  recommended  by 
a  brilliancy  of  description  hitherto  unknown  to  the  barren 
fancy  of  those  who  inhabited  a  western  region,  were  rapidly 
diffused  through  the  continent  of  Europe.  From  Spain, 
by  the  communication  of  commercial  intercourse  through 
the  ports  of  Toulon  and  Marseilles,  they  passed  into 
France.  In  the  latter  kingdom  they  received  the  earliest 
and  most  welcome  reception  in  the  district  of  Armorica  or 
Britany,  That  province  had  been  largely  peopled  by  a 
colony  of  Welsh,  who  had  emigrated  thither  in  the  fourth 
century.^  Hence  a  close  connection  subsisted  between 
Wales  and  Britany  for  many  ages.  The  fables  current  in 
the  latter  country  were  collected  by  W.  Map,  Archdeacon 
of  Oxford,  who  presented  them  to  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth. 
His  Latin  Chronicle,  compiled  from  these  materials,  forms 
one  of  the  principal  sources  of  tales  of  chivalry,  and 
consists  entirely  of  Arabian  inventions. 

Mr.  Warton  [p.  103,  etc.]  next  proceeds  to  point  out  the 
coincidence  between  fictions  iindoubtedly  Arabic,  and  the 
machinery  of  the  early  romances.  He  concludes  with 
maintaining,  that  if  Europe  was  in  any  way  indebted  to 
the  Scalds  for  the  extravagant  stories  of  giants  and 
monsters,  these  fables  must  still  be  referred  to  an  eastern 
origin,  and  must  have  found  their  way  into  the  north  of 
Europe  along  with  an  Asiatic  nation,  who,  soon  after 
Mithridates  had  been  overthrown  by  Pompey,  fled  from 
the  dominion  of  the  Eomans,  and  under  the  conduct  of 
Odin  settled  in  Scandinavia. 

These  two  systems,  which  may  be  termed  the  Gotliic  and 
the  Arabian,  are  those  which  have  found  the  most  nume- 
rous  supporters.     As  far  as  relates  to  the  supernatural 

^  The  Chronicle  of  Mont  St.  Michael  Abbey  gives  513  as  the  period 
of  this  flight.  "Anno  513,  venerunt  transmarini  Britanni  in  Armori- 
cam,  id  est  Minorem  Britanniam."  The  ancient  Saxon  poet  (apud 
Duchesne,  Hist.  Franc.  Script,  ii.  p.  148)  also  peoples  Bretagne  after 
the  Saxon  conquest. — Turner. 


CH.   III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  119 

umameuts  of  ruiuaiioe  (for  it  is  this  branch  aloue  that  is 
at  present  to  be  considered,)  the  two  theories,  though  very 
diii'erent,  are  by  no  means  incompatible.  From  a  view  of 
the  character  of  Arabian  and  Gothic  fiction,  it  appears 
that  neither  is  exchisively  entitled  to  the  credit  of  having 
given  birth  to  the  wonders  of  romance.  The  early  framers 
of  the  tales  of  chivalry  may  be  indebted  to  the  northern 
bards  for  those  wild  and  terrible  images  congenial  to  a 
frozen  region,  and  owe  to  Arabian  invention  that  magni- 
ficence and  splendour,  those  glowing  descrijjtions  and  luxu- 
riant ornaments,  suggested  by  the  enchanting  scenery  of 
an  eastern  climate. 

And  wonders  wild  of  Arabesque  combine 
With  Gothic  imagery  of  darker  shade. 

Wart  on' s  hypothesis  of  the  flight  of  Odin  from  the 
Roman  power  to  Scandinavia,  and  which  exclusively  assigns 
to  the  eastern  nations  all  the  fictions  of  romance,  seems  to 
rest  on  no  solid  foimdation.  Indeed  Eichardson,  in  the 
Preface  to  his  Persian  Dictionary,  maintains  that  the  whole 
was  a  mere  Scaldic  fable,  invented  to  trace  the  origin  of 
Gothic  and  Roman  enmity,  as  the  story  of  Dido  and  ^Eneas 
was  supposed  to  account  for  the  irreconcileable  antipathy 
of  Rome  and  Carthage.'  Besides,  no  modification  of  climate 
and  manners,  strong  as  their  influence  may  be,  could  have 
produced  the  prodigious  difference  that  now  appears  be- 
tween Oriental  and  G-othic  or  Northern  fictions  ;  for  it  can- 
not be  denied,  and  indeed  has  been  acknowledged  by  Mr. 
Warton,-  that  the  fictions  of  the  Arabians  and  Scalds  are 
totally  different.  The  fables  and  superstitions  of  the 
northern  bards  are  of  a  darker  shade,  and  more  savage 
complexion,  than  those  of  the  Arabians.  There  is  some- 
thing in  their  fictions  that  chills  the  imagination.  The 
formidable  objects  of  nature  with  which  they  were  fami- 
liarized in  their  northern  solitudes,  their  precipices,  and 
frozen  moimtains,  and  gloomy  forests,  acted  on  their  fancy, 
and  gave  a  tincture  of  horror  to  their  imagery.  Spirits, 
who  send  stonns  over  the  deep,  who  rejoice  in  the  shriek 
of  the  drowning  mariner,  or  diffuse  irresistible  pestilence ; 

'   Cf.  Herodotus.  Bk.  i.  c.  1-6.  where  a  similar  account  is  given  of  the 
origin  of  the  enmity  of  the  Greeks  and  Persians.—  Lieb. 
-  Warton,  Hist.  Eng.  Poet.,  pp.  115,  etc.  cd.  1871. 


120  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [cH.  III. 

spells  which  preserve  from  poison,  blunt  the  weapons  of 
an  enemy,  or  call  up  the  dead  from  their  tombs — these  are 
the  ornaments  of  northern  poetry.  The  Arabian  fictions 
are  of  a  more  sj^lendid  nature ;  thev  are  less  terrible  in- 
deed, but  possess  more  yarietj  and  magnificence  ;  they  lead 
us  through  delightful  forests,  and  raise  up  palaces  glittering 
with  gold  and  diamonds.^ 

But  while  it  seems  impossible  to  trace  the  wilder  fictions 
of  the  north  to  an  eastern  source,  it  mar  be  observed,  on 
the  other  hand,  that,  allowing  the  early  Scaldic  odes  to  be 
genuine,  we  find  in  them  no  dragons,  giants,  magic  rings, 
or  enchanted  castles."  These  are  only  to  be  met  with  in 
the  compositions  of  the  bards,  who  flourished  after  the 
native  vein  of  Eunic  fabling  had  been  enriched  by  the 
tales  of  the  Arabians.  But  if  we  look  in  vain  to  the  early 
Grothic  poetry  for  many  of  those  fables  which  adorn  the 
works  of  romancers,  we  shall  easily  find  them  in  the  ample 
field  of  oriental  fiction.  Thus  the  Asiatic  romances  and 
chemical  works  of  the  Arabians  are  full  of  enchantments, 
similar  to  those  described  in  the  Spanish,  and  even  in  the 
French,  tales  of  chivalry.  Magical  rings  were  an  important 
part  of  the  eastern  j^hilosophy,  and  seem  to  have  given 
rise  to  those  which  are  of  so  much  service  to  the  Italian 
poets.  In  the  eastern  Peris  we  may  trace  the  origin  of  the 
Euroj)ean  fairies  in  their  qualities,  and  perhaps  in  their 
name.  The  grifiin,  or  hij^pogriff,  of  the  Italian  -vvi'iters, 
seems  to  be  the  famous  Simurgh  of  the  Persians,  which 
makes  such  a  figure  in  the  epic  poems  of  Saadi  and  Ferdusi.^ 

^  Warton's  "  Hist,  of  Eng.  Poetry." 

^  There  is  scarcely  need  to  tell  the  reader  of  to-da}^  that  Dunlop's 
supposition  that  there  are  no  dragons,  giants,  etc.,  in  Teutonic  mytho- 
logy is  erroneous.  As  ^vilI  be  evident  upon  perusal  of  the  author's  text, 
he  envisages  hissubject  entirely  from  its  romance  aspect,  seldom  troubling 
about  Germanic  fiction,  and,  indeed,  apparently  unacquainted  with  it. 
(See  Aj^pendix  on  German  Fiction.)  With  reference  to  the  difference 
between  Eastern  and  Western  Fiction,  see  Grimm,  Teutonic  Mytho- 
logy, pp.  978,  980,  998,  etc.     Lond.,  1883. 

^  "  The  bird  Simurg  has  its  marvellous  nest  upon  INIount  Alburs,  upon 
a  peak  that  touches  the  sky,  and  which  no  man  has  ever  yet  seen.  The 
child  Sal  is  exposed  upon  this  mountain  ;  the  Simurg  hears  his  cry, 
pities  him,  and  carries  him  to  its  solitary  peak.  When  the  boy  grows 
up,  and  departs,  the  bird  gives  him  one  of  its  feathers  which  he  is  to  burn, 
when  in  danger,  and  the  Simurg  will  come  to  his  assistance,  and  take 


CH.   III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  121 

A  great  number  of  these  romantic  wonders  were  collected 
in  the  east  l)y  the  numl)erless  pilgrims  and  palmers  who 
visited  the  Holy  Land  through  curiosity,  restlessness,  or 
devotion,  and  who,  returning  from  so  great  a  distance, 
imposed  every  fiction  on  a  believing  audience.  They  were 
subsequently  introduced  into  Europe  by  the  fablers  of 
France  who  took  up  arms,  and  followed  their  barons  to 
the  conquest  of  Jerusalem.  At  their  retui*n  they  imported 
into  Europe  the  wonders  they  had  heard,  and  enriched 
romance  with  an  infinite  variety  of  oriental  fictions. 

This  mode  of  introduction  of  the  eastern  fables  into 
Europe  is  much  more  natural  than  that  pointed  out  by  Mr. 
Warton.  The  Arabians  were  not  only  secluded  from  the 
other  inhabitants  of  Spain,  but  were  the  objects  of  their 
deepest  animosity  ;  and  hence  the  Castilians  would  not 
readily  imbibe  the  fictions  of  their  enemies.  It  is  unfortu- 
nate too  that  the  intermediate  station  from  the  Moorish 
dominions  in  Spain  should  be  fixed  in  Armorica,  one  of  the 
provinces  of  France  most  remote  from  Grrenada.^ 

But  if  Armorica  cannot  without  difficulty  be  adopted  as 
a  resting-place  of  romantic  fiction,  far  less  can  it  be  con- 
sidered its  native  soil,  as  has  been  assumed  in  a  third 
liyjjofhesis,  maintained  by  Mr.  Leyden  in  his  Introduction 
to  the  Complaynt  of  Scotland.  It  is  there  argued,  that  a 
colony  of  Britons  took  refuge  in  Armorica  during  the  fifth 
century,  from  the  tyranny  of  the  Saxons,  and  carried  with 
them  the  archives  which  had  escaped  the  fury  of  their 
conquerors.'  The  memory  of  Arthur  and  his  knights  was 
thus  preserved  in  Armorica  as  fresh  as  in  Wales  or  Corn- 
wall ;  and  the  inhabitants  of  Armorica  were  the  first 
people  in  France  with  whom  the  Normans  had  a  friendly 
intercourse.  Besides,  the  class  of  French  romances  relating 
to  Charlemagne  ascribed  to  that  monarch  the  feats  of 
Charles  Martel,  an  Armorican  chief,  whose  exploits  would 
more  probably  be  celebrated  by  the  minstrels  of  his  own 
country  than  by  Turpiu,  or  any  other  writer  of  fabulous 

him  back  to  his  kingdom.  The  bird  then  carries  the  young  hero  to  his 
father's  pahice."  Cf.  the  Pentanierone,  bk.  iv.  story  3.  De  Gubernatis, 
Zoological  Mvthol'igy,  Lond.  lS7:i.  ii.  p.  190. 

^  But  see,  infra,  Spanish  Romance. 

*  See  notes,  pp.  1 18  and  144  of  this  vol. 


122  HISTORY    OF    FICTI0:N.  [cH.  III. 

chronicles.  In  short,  all  the  French  romances  originated 
in  Brit  any,  and  all  the  nations  of  Europe  derived  their 
tales  of  chivalry  from  the  French. 

I  am  far  from  meaning  to  deny  that  copious  materials  of 
fiction  were  amassed  in  Brit  any,  and  were  thence  dissemi- 
nated through  France  and  England  ;  but  it  cannot  be 
believed  that  the  machinery  of  romance  was  created  in  a 
country,  which,  on  the  most  favourable  supposition,  can 
only  be  regarded  as  a  link  in  the  chain  of  fiction  ;  and  far 
less  can  it  be  thought  that  this  pitiful  kingdom  was  the 
only  cradle  of  that  spirit  of  chivalry,  which  at  one  time 
pervaded  all  the  nations  of  Europe. 

In  short,  this  Armorican  system  seems  to  have  arisen 
from  mistaking  the  collection  of  materials  for  the  sources 
whence  they  derived  their  embellishment.^ 

IV.  A  fourth  hypotliesis  has  been  suggested,  which  repre- 
sents the  machinery  and  colouring  of  fiction,  the  stories  of 
enchanted  gardens,"  monsters,  and  winged  steeds,  which 
have  been  introduced  into  romance,  as  derived  from  the 
classical  and  mythological  authors ;  and  as  being  merely 
the  ancient  stories  of  Greece,  grafted  on  modern  manners, 
and  modified  by  the  customs  of  the  day.  The  classical 
authors,  it  is  true,  were  in  the  middle  ages  scarcely  known  ; 
but  the  superstitions  they  inculcated  had  been  prevalent 
for  too  long  a  period,  and  had  made  too  deep  impression  on 
the  mind,  to  be  easily  obliterated.  The  mythological  ideas 
which  still  lingered  behind,  were  diffused  in  a  multitude  of 
popular  works.     In  the  Travels  of  Sir  John  Mandeville, 

^  See  San  Manhe  (Die  Arthur-Sage  und  die  Marchen  des  Kothen 
Buchs  von  Hergest,  pp.  37,  etc.),  who,  with  De  la  Rue  in  his  Essai  sur 
les  Bardes  et  Jongleurs  Anglo-Normands.  p.  57,  and  Villemarque 
(Contes,  i.  p.  11,  etc.),  considers  the  home  of  these  romantic  fictions  to  be 
Britany,  where  they,  as  well  as  their  fabulous  embellishments,  arose 
from  the  popular  beliefs.  (See  Hiiet,  Orig.  des  Eom.,  p.  155  ;  Ritson, 
Ancient  Metrical  Romances,  i.  p.  xix,  etc.) 

See  also  Caylus,  Orig.  de  I'ancienne  Chevalerie  et  des  anciens 
Romans,  in  Hist,  de  FAcad.  des  Inscrip.,  t.  xxiii.  p.  237.  See  also 
Warton's  "  History  uf  English  Poetry,"  ed.  by  ^\.  C.  Hazlitt,  London, 
1871,  vol.  i.  p.  91,  note,  and  T.  Wi'ight,  Latin  Stories,  Berington,  pp. 
230-31 ,  and  Hallam,  Introduction  to  Literature  of  Europe  in  the  Eifteenthy 
Sixteenth,  and  Seventeenth  centtu-ies.     §  54,  etc. 

-  See  Notes  on  Albertus  Magnus,  Decameron  of  Boccaccio,  x.  5,  and 
supra,  p.  51. 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  123 

there  are  frequent  allusions  to  ancient  fable ;  and,  as 
Middleton  ^  has  shown  that  a  great  number  of  the  rites  of 
the  Latin  Church  were  derived  from  pagan  ceremonies,  it 
is  scarcely  to  be  doubted  that  many  classical  were  con- 
verted into  romantic  fictions.  This,  at  least,  is  certain, 
that  the  classical  system  presents  the  most  numerous  and 
least  exceptionable  prototypes  of  the  fables  of  romance. 

In  many  of  the  tales  of  chivalry  there  is  a  knight 
detained  from  his  c^uest,  by  the  enticements  of  a  sorceress, 
and  who  is  nothing  more  than  the  Calypso  or  Circe  of 
Homer.  The  story  of  Andromeda  might  give  rise  to  the 
fable  of  damsels  being  rescued  by  their  favourite  knight 
when  on  the  point  of  being  devoured  by  a  sea-monster. 
The  heroes  of  the  Iliad  and  ^Eneid  were  both  furnished 
with  enchanted  armour  ;  and,  in  the  story  of  Polyphemus, 
a  giant  and  his  cave  are  exhibited.  Herodotus,  in  his 
history  [iii.  116],  speaks  of  the  Arimaspi,  a  race  of  Cyclops 
who  inhabited  the  north,  and  waged  perpetual  war  with  the 
tribe  of  griffons,  which  guarded  quantities  of  gold.  The  ex- 
pedition of  Jason  in  search  of  the  golden  fleece ;  the  apples 
of  the  Hesperides,  watched  by  a  dragon ;  the  king's 
daughter  who  is  an  enchantress,  who  falls  in  love  with  and 
saves  the  knight,  are  akin  to  the  marvels  of  romantic 
fiction ;  especially  of  that  sort  supposed  to  have  been  in- 
troduced by  the  Arabians.  Some  of  the  less  familiar 
fables  of  classical  mythology,  as  the  image  in  the  Theo- 
gony  of  Hesiod  of  the  murky  prisons  in  -rt-hich  the  Titans 
were  pent  up  by  Jupiter,  under  the  custody  of  strong  armed 
giants,  bear  a  striking  resemblance  to  the  more  wild  sub- 
limity of  the  Gothic  fictions. 

Besides,  a  great  number  of  those  fables  now  considered 
as  eastern,  appear  to  have  been  originally  Greek  traditions, 
which  were  carried  to  Persia  in  the  time  of  Alexander  the 
Great,  and  were  afterwards  returned  to  Europe,  with  the 
modification  they  had  received  from  oriental  ideas. 

Perhaps  it  may  be  considered  as  a  confirmation  of  the 
classical  theory,  that,  in  the  13th  century,  many  classical 
stories  appeared  both  in  prose  and  in  a  metrical  form, 
veiled  in  the  garb  of  romantic  fiction.     Of  this  sort  are  the 

'   Letter  from  Rome,  etc.,  vol.  5. 


124  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Latin  works  of  Dares  Phrygins,  and  Dictys  Cretensis,  con- 
cerning the  wars  of  Troy ;  and  the  still  more  ample 
chronicle  of  Guido  de  Colonna,  formed  from  these  authors 
through  the  medium  of  the  French  metrical  work  of  Benoit 
de  Saint  More.  But  these  and  similar  compositions  will  be 
more  particularly  mentioned  when  we  come  to  treat  of  the 
classical  romances  in  which  Achilles,  Jason,  and  Hercules, 
were  adopted  into  chivalry,  and  celebrated  in  common 
with  Lancelot,  Roland,  and  Amadis,  whom  they  so  nearly 
resembled  in  the  extravagance  of  their  adventures.^ 

Mr.  Eitson ""  has  successively  attempted  to  ridicule  the 
Gothic,  Arabian,  and  Classical  systems  ;  and  has  main- 
tained, that  the  origin  of  romance,  in  every  age  or  country, 
must  be  sought  in  the  different  sorts  of  superstition  which 
have  from  time  to  time  prevailed.  It  is,  he  contends,  a 
vain  and  futile  endeavour,  to  seek  elsewhere  for  the  origin 
of  fable.  The  French  tales  of  chivalry,  in  particular,  are 
too  ancient  to  be  indebted  for  their  existence  to  any  bar- 
barous nation  whatever.  In  all  climes  where  genius  has 
inspired,  fiction  has  been  its  earliest  product,  and  every 
nation  in  the  globe  abounds  in  romances  of  its  own  inven- 
tion, and  which  it  owes  to  itself  alone. 

And,  in  fact,  after  all,  a  great  proportion  of  the  wonders 
of  romance  must  be  attributed  to  the  imagination  of  the 
authors.  A  belief  in  superhuman  agency  seems  to  have 
prevailed  in  every  age  and  country ;  and  monsters  of  all 
sorts  have  been  created  by  exaggeration  or  fear.  It  was 
natural  for  the  vulgar,  in  an  ignorant  age,  as  we  see  from 
the  Turks  even  of  the  present  day,  to  believe  a  palace,  sur- 
passingly beautiful,  to  be  the  work  of  enchanters.  To  this 
we  must  join  the  supernatural  wonders  conjured  up  by  a 
superstitious  fancy,  and  the  natui-al  ones  supplied  by  a 
mind  unacquainted  with  the  constitution  of  things.  Thus 
to  the  deceptions  of  sight,  produced  by  certain  dispositions 
of  light  and  shade — to  the  reflecting  and  magnifying 
power,  possessed  by  mists  and  clouds,  may  be  partly  attri- 
buted the  prevalence  of  stories  of  ghosts,  giants,  &c.,  in 
hilly  or  cloudy  regions  intersected  by  deej)  valleys  and 
lakes,  or  by  woods,  rocks,  and  rivers. 

^  See  L.  F.  A.  Maury,  Croyanees,  etc.,  and  E.  Leveque,Les  Mythes,  etc. 
2  Ancient  English  Metrical  Koraance,  a'oI.  i.  p.  xix,  etc. 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  125' 

Jam  turn  Religio  pavidos  terrebat  agrestes 
Dira  loci ;  jam  tum  sylvam  saxum<iue  tremebant. 
Hoc-  nemiis.  liiinr.  iiKiuit,  frondosu  vcrtit-e  collom, 
(Quis  Deus,  iiuerium  est)  habitat  deus.     Arcades  ipsum 
Credunt  se  vidisse  Jovem  :  cum  s;cpe  nigrantem 
jEgida  concuterct  dextva,  nimbosque  cieret. 

jEncis,  viii.  349,  etc. 

To  all  tins  must  be  added  the  chimeras  produced  by  in- 
dulgence in  frolicsome  combination.  Such  were  the  em- 
blematic cherub  of  the  Hebrews  [Ezekiel  i.  and  x.],  the 
compound  images  of  the  Egyptians,  and  the  monster  of 
mythology,  which  was  described  as 

Prima  leo,  postrema  draco,  media  inde  capella. 

lAicret.  V.  V.  901. 

In  like  manner  the  griffin  is  compounded  of  the  lion  and 
eagle  ;  the  snake  and  lizard  comprise  the  analysis,  and  may 
haye  suggested  the  notion  of  a  di-agon.^     The  idea  once 

^  "This  solution  of  the  origin  of  dragons  was  ver}-  ingenious  until 
the  progress  of  geology  in  mndeni  times  brought  to  light  the  pterodactyl 
and  ichthyosaurus.  The  former  is  almost  the  exact  dragon  of  fiction. 
For  a  discussion  on  this  subject,  see  a  review  of  Mrs.  Jameson's  'Sacred 
and  Legendary  Art/  by  the  Rev.  Charles  Kingsley,  in  Eraser's  Maga- 
zine, ^larch,  1849.  reprinted  in  his  '  Miscellanies,'  vol.  i." — H.  Jenner. 

It  has  been  suggested,  but  upon  scarcely  sufficient  grounds,  that  the 
representations  of  dragons  in  Chinese  art,  due,  as  they  doubtless  are,  to 
traditions  of  extreme  antiquity,  are  derived  originally  from  memories  of 
animal  forms  long  since  extinct.  In  this  connection  we  may  refer  to  an 
article  on  birds  with  teeth,  in  the  Popular  Science  Review  for  1875. 

In  Dr.  Zachary  Greys  notes  on  Hudibras  (vol.  i.  p.  125)  thei*e  is  a 
story  of  a  man  making  a  dragon  from  a  rat.  "  ^Ir.  Jacob  Bobart, 
botany  professor  of  Oxford,  did,  about  forty  years  ago,  find  a  dead  rat 
in  the  physical  garden,  which  he  made  to  resemble  the  common  picture 
of  dragons,  by  altering  head  and  tail,  and  thrusting  in  taper  sharp  sticks,, 
which  distended  the  skin  on  each  side,  till  it  mimicked  wings.  lie  let  it 
dry  as  hard  as  possible.  The  learned  pronounced  it  a  dragon  ;  and  one 
of  them  sent  an  accurate  description  to  Magliabecchi,  librarian  to  the 
Grand  Duke  of  Tuscany.  Several  fine  copies  of  verses  were  wrote  on  so 
rare  a  subject :  but  at  last  Mr.  Bobart  owned  the  cheat.  However,  it 
was  looked  upon  as  a  masterpiece  of  art,  and,  as  such,  deposited  in  the 
museum  or  anatomy  school,  where  I  saw  it  some  years  after.*'  A  truly 
appalling  exhibition  of  terrific  artificial  monsters  is  to  be  seen  at  the 
Colonial  Museum  of  the  Hague.  It  consists  of  a  collection  of  the  most 
frightful  combinations  of  different  animals  :  winged  serj)ents,  reptiles 
with  human  heads,  or  with  two  or  more  heads,  etc.  These  are  con- 
structed by  the  natives  of  some  of  the  Dutch  colonies.  They  are,  indeed^ 
well  calculated  to  strike  the  beholder  with  terror  and  horror.  The  joint- 


126  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

formed  of  a  being  of  larger  dimensions  than  his  fellow- 
mortals,  it  was  easy  to  increase  his  proportions,  and  to 
diversify  his  shape  with  every  variety  of  monstrous  attri- 
bute ;  and  it  was  natural,  as  in  the  case  of  Goliah,  to 
bestow  a  ferocity  of  disposition,  corresj^onding  to  the 
terrors  of  aspect,  ^^^len  once  the  notion  of  an  enchanter 
was  conceived,  it  was  not  difficult  to  assign  him  more 
extensive  powers,  to  render  his  spells  more  potent,  and 
their  effects  more  awful  or  splendid.  "  Impenetrable 
armour,"  says  Mr.  Hobbes,  "  enchanted  castles — invul- 
nerable bodies — iron  men — flying  horses,  and  other  such 
things,  are  easily  feigned  by  them  that  dare." 

II.  Although  the  theories  which  have  now  been  detailed 
may  be  sufficient,  separately  or  united,  to  explain  the 
origin  of  the  supernatural  ornaments  of  romance,  still  they 
are  to  be  considered  merely  as  embellishments  of  those 

ings  are  neatly  effected,  and  the  scales  and  other  external  appurtenances 
of  the  animals,  which  are  carefully  retained  in  these  composite  monsters, 
add,  of  coux'se,  to  their  repulsive  realism. 

A  combination  of  diverse  animal  forms  Avas  one  of  the  favourite  re- 
sources of  the  mediaeval  artist  for  representing  Satan  and  his  imps  ;  note 
also  the  fauns,  satyrs,  hippogrifFs,  etc.,  of  classic  mythology.  That  in 
its  endeavour  to  evoke  entirely  new  conceptions,  the  mind  can  after  all 
but  fall  back  upon  known  forms,  and  devise  perverse  distortions  or  in- 
congruous combinations  of  them,  is  but  a  proof  of  the  poverty  of  human 
invention  and  of  the  gulf  between  creature  and  Creator. 

The  dragon,  according  to  Sir  Walter  Scott,  was  familiar  to  the  Celtic 
tribes  at  an  early  period,  and  was  borne  on  the  banner  of  Pendragon, 
who  from  that  circumstance  derived  his  name.  Arthur's  standard  was' 
also  a  dragon.  A  description  of  this  banner,  the  magical  work  of  Mer- 
lin, occurs  in  the  romance  of  Arthur  and  Merlin  in  the  Auchinleck  MS,, 
printed  for  the  Abbotsford  Club,  183S  : — 

*'  Merlin  bar  her  gonfanoun  ; 

Upon  the  top  stode  a  dragoun, 

Swithe  griseliche  a  litel  croune. 

Fast  him  biheld  al  tho  in  the  toune. 

For  the  mouth  he  had  grinninge 

And  the  tong  out  flatlinge 

That  our  kest  sparkes  of  fer, 

Into  the  skies  that  flowen  cler,"  etc. 
The  dragon  is  repeatedly  mentioned  in  the  Welsh  triads.  In  a  battle 
fought  at  Bedford,  about  752,  betwixt  Ethelbald,  king  of  Mercia,  and 
Cuthred,  king  of  Wessex,  a  golden  dragon,  the  banner  of  the  latter,  was 
borne  in  front  of  the  combat  by  Edelheim  or  Edelhun,  a  chief  of  the 
West  Saxons.  Notes  on  Sir  Tristram,  p.  290.— Park.  (See  Warton,  i. 
p.  105.)     See  supp.  note  at  end  of  vol. 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  127 

chivalrous  adventures  which  occupy  by  far  the  greatest 
proportion  of  romantic  compilation. 

The  Chissieal  System,  allowing  it  to  be  well  founded 
with  regard  to  the  introduction  of  giants,  hippogrift's,  or 
enchanters,  cannot  explain  the  enterprise,  the  gallantry, 
and  romantic  valour,  attril>uted  to  the  knights  of  chivalry. 
It  is,  no  doul)t,  true,  that  a  striking  analogy  subsists 
between  the  manners  of  the  heroic  and  Gothic  times.  In 
both  periods  robbery  was  regarded  as  honourable ;  or,  at 
least,  was  not  the  forerunner  of  infamy.  Bastardy,  in  both 
ages,  was  in  peculiar  rej^utation :  The  most  renowned 
knights  of  chivalry,  as  Roland  and  Amadis,  were  illegiti- 
mate ;  and  the  heroes  of  antiquity  were  the  spurious  off- 
spring of  demigods  and  nymphs.  The  martial  games,  too, 
may  in  their  design  and  their  eifects  be  considered  as 
analogous  to  tournaments.  Equal  encouragement  was 
given  to  the  bards  of  G-reece,  and  the  minstrels  of  the 
middle  ages ;  while  Hercules  and  Bacclius,  who  are  repre- 
sented as  roaming  through  their  country,  inflicting  jiunish- 
ment  on  robbers,  and  extirpating  monsters,  may  be  re- 
garded as  the  knights  errant  of  antiquity.  But  these  re- 
semblances arose  merely  from  a  corresponding  state  of 
manners ;  since,  at  a  similar  stage  of  the  social  progress, 
similar  ideas  and  customs  are  prevalent  amongst  different 
nations. 

Still  less  can  it  be  believed  that  the  spirit  of  chivalry 
received  its  impulse  from  the  knight  errantry  of  Arabia. 
This  part  of  his  system,  Mr.  Warton  has  ])ut  feebly  urged. 
The  nature  of  Arabian  and  chivalrous  enterprise  was  by  no 
means  the  same ;  nor  is  it  probable  that  the  Europeans 
derived  the  dominant  part  of  their  manners  and  institu- 
tions from  a  secluded  and  a  hostile  people. 

But  Dr.  Percy,  and  other  supporters  of  the  Gotliic 
system,  have  strenuously  maintained  that  the  ideas  of 
chivalry,  the  soul  and  subject  of  romance,  subsisted  from 
the  earliest  period  among  the  northern  nations,  and  were 
thence  transfused  into  the  fictions  of  a  subsequent  age/     I 

^  Quamquam  severa  illic  matrimonia :  nee  ullam  morum  partem 
magis  laudaveris:  nam  prope  soli  barbarorum  singulis  uxoribus  contenti 
sunt,  exceptis  admodum  paucis.  qui  non  libidine.  sed  ob  nobilitatem, 
plurimis  nuptiis  ambiuntur.   Dotem  non  uxor  marito,  sed  uxori  maritus, 


128  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

conceive,  however,  tliat  althoTigli  the  rudiments  of  chivahy 
may  have  existed,  these  notions  were  not  sufficiently  general, 
nor  developed,  to  have  become,  without  farther  preparation, 
the  reigning  topics  of  composition.  Instances,  too,  of  chi- 
valrous gallantry  would  have  been  found  in  the  earlier 
ages  of  the  history  of  France,  but  the  manners  during  the^ 
two  first  races  of  its  monarchs,  were  far  from  exhibiting 
any  symptoms  of  courtesy. 

It  was  under  the  feudal  establishments,  subsequently 
erected  in  Europe,  that  chivalry  received  its  vigour,  and 
was  invested  with  the  privileges  of  a  regular  institution. 
The  chivalry,  therefore,  unfolded  in  romance,  was  the  off- 
spring of  existing  manners,  and  was  merely  an  exaggerated 
picture  of  the  actual  state  of  society,  of  which  oppression,, 
anarchy,  and  restless  courage,  were  the  characteristics, 
but  which  sometimes  produced  examples  of  virtue  and 
enthusiasm. 

On  the  fall  of  the  Eoman  empire,  the  lands  overrun  by 
the  barbarous  nations  being  parcelled  out  amongst  a  num- 
ber of  independent  chieftains,  whose  aims  and  interests, 
frequently  interfered,  it  became  an  object  with  every  baron 
to  assemble  round  his  person,  and  to  attach,  by  the  strongest 
bonds,  the  greatest  possible  number  of  young  men  of  rank 
and  courage.  The  knight,  or  soldier,  at  the  same  time- 
found  it  necessary  to  look  to  some  superior  for  support, 
against  the  oppression  of  other  chieftains. 

That  these  ties  might  be  rendered  closer,  and  that  the- 
candidate  for  knighthood  might  be  instructed  in  courtesj 
and  the  art  of  war,  it  was  customary  to  remove  him  at  an 
early  age  from  his  father's  house  to  the  court  or  castle  of 
his  future  patron. 

Those  who  were  destined  for  this  sort  of  life,  first  acted 

offert,  etc.  Tacitus,  De  Mor.  Germ,  xviii.,  etc.  "Flusque  ibi  boni 
mores  valent,  quam  alibi  bonse  leges,"  xix. 

Ubi  quis  ex  principibus  [Gerraanorum]  in  concilio  dixit,  "  Se  ducem 
fore  ;  qui  sequi  velint  profiteantur  f  consurgunt  ii,  qui  et  causam  et 
hominem  probant,  suumque  auxilium  pollicentur,  atque  "ab  multitudine- 
collaudantur :  qui  ex  iis  secuti  non  sunt,  in  desertorum  ac  proditorum 
numero  ducuntur,  omniumque  iis  rerum  postea  fides  derogatur.  Hospites 
violare,  fas  non  putant ;  qui  quaque  de  causa  ad  eos  venerint,  ab  injuria 
pi'ohibent,  sanctosque  habent  :  iis  omnium  domus  patent,  victusque 
communicatur." — Caesar,  De  Belle  Gall.,  vi.  23. 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  129 

as  pages  or  varlets ;  they  performed  menial  services,  which 
at  that  time  were  not  considered  as  degrading  ;  they  were 
initiated  into  the  ceremonial  of  a  court,  and  were  at  the 
same  time  instructed  in  those  bodily  exercises  which  were 
considered  the  best  preparation  for  their  future  career. 

Tlie  castle  in  which  the  candidate  for  knighthood  re- 
ceived his  education,  was  usually  thronged  with  young 
persons  of  a  different  sex.  The  intercourse  wliich  he  thus 
enjoyed  was  the  best  school  for  the  refinements  of  courtesy : 
he  was  taught  to  select  some  lady  as  the  mistress  of  his 
soul,  to  whom  were  referred  all  his  sentiments  and  actions. 
Her  image  was  implanted  in  his  heart,  amid  the  fairy 
scenes  of  childhood,  and  was  afterwards  blended  with  its 
recollections.  In  the  middle  ages,  society  was  in  an  inter- 
mediate state,  removed  from  the  extremes  of  indigence  and 
luxury,  which  is  most  favourable  to  love :  and  that  passion 
was  sometimes  so  nourished  by  obstacles,  that  it  was 
exalted  into  a  species  of  devotion. 

Thus  the  service  of  a  mistress  became  the  future  glory 
and  occupation  of  the  candidate  for  knighthood.  At  the 
same  time  that  this  duty  was  inculcated,  the  emulation  of 
military  excellence  was  excited  by  the  example  of  his  com- 
peers and  his  patron.  When  the  youth  passed  to  the  con- 
dition of  squire,  they  attended  their  master  abroad ;  if  he 
engaged  in  battle  they  took  no  part  in  the  rencounter,  but 
remained  spectators  of  the  combat,  and,  by  attention  to  the 
various  movements,  were  instructed  in  the  art  of  war. 

Tlieir  time  was  also,  in  a  great  measure,  devoted  to  those 
sports  which  were  kindred  to  the  occupations  of  war,  and 
the  knowledge  of  which  was  an  essential  preliminary  to 
reception  mto  the  order  of  knighthood. 

If  that  investiture  be  merely  considered  as  a  ceremony, 
by  which  young  persons  destined  to  the  military  profession 
received  their  arms,  its  institution,  we  are  told,  is  as  ancient 
as  the  age  of  Charlemagne ;  but,  if  considered  as  a  dignity, 
which,  by  certain  forms,  conferred  the  first  rank  in  the 
military  order,  it  cannot  easily  be  traced  higher  than  the 
11th  century.  In  the  forests  of  Germany,  the  initiation  of 
a  youth  into  the  profession  of  a  warrior,  had  been  attended 
with  appropriate  ceremonies.  The  chieftain  of  the  tribe 
decorated  him  with  a  sword  and  armour  [Tacitus,  Germ.  c. 

I.  K 


130  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

xiii.] — a  simple  form,  which,  in  the  progress  of  the  feudal 
system,  was  converted  into  a  mysterious  and  pompous  rite. 

On  his  reception  into  this  order,  the  knight  became 
bound  to  the  observance  of  loyalty  to  his  superior,  to  an 
impartial  distribution  of  justice  to  his  vassals,  to  an  in- 
violable adherence  to  his  word,  and  attention  to  a  courtesy 
which  embellished  his  other  qualities,  and  softened  his 
other  duties.  All  those  who  were  unjustly  oppressed,  or 
conceived  themselves  to  be  so,  were  entitled  to  claim  his 
protection  and  succour.  The  ladies  in  this  respect  enjoyed 
the  most  ample  j^rivileges.  Destitute  of  the  means  of  sup- 
port, and  exposed  to  the  outrages  of  avarice  or  passion, 
they  were  consigned  to  his  special  care,  and  placed  under 
the  guardship  of  his  valiant  arm. 

The  promotion  of  knights,  which  sometimes  took  place 
after  the  performance  of  military  exploits,  but  more  fre- 
C[uently  on  church  festivals,  coronations,  baptisms,  or  the 
conclusion  of  peace,  was  generally  followed  by  jousts  and 
tournaments.  Of  these  institutions  (which  were  of  French 
invention,  and  were  introduced  about  the  time  of  the  first 
crusade,)  the  former  was  of  a  more  private  and  inferior,  the 
latter  of  a  more  pompous  and  public  description.  Both 
were  contrived  for  the  purpose  of  interesting  the  mind,  when 
scenes  of  real  warfare  did  not  present  themselves,  and  of 
displaying,  at  the  same  time,  the  magnificence  of  the  prince 
or  baron. ^ 

^  Henry  the  Fowler,  Emperor  of  Germany  from  918  to  936,  in  his 
war  with  the  Hungarians,  was  enabled,  by  the  help  of  the  nobles  he  had 
summoned  to  his  aid,  to  conclude  an  armistice  for  a  year.  Fearing  his 
auxiliaries  might  not  be  disposed  to  resume  war  at  the  expiry  of  the  term 
if  he  allowed  them  to  disperse,  he  proposed  to  them  to  remain  at  Mag- 
deburg, and  to  enliven  the  tedium  of  the  prolonged  stay  devised  a  sort 
of  contest  of  skill — tournaments,  in  fact.  The  nobles  fell  into  the  plan, 
each  adopting  a  peculiar  colour  or  badge  on  his  shield  to  distinguish  him 
from  the  others.  Some  pushed  these  distinctions  much  farther,  causing 
their  retainers  to  wear  their  particular  colours,  or  having  their  pecu- 
liar badge  embroidered  upon  their  dress ;  others  again  went  to  a  whim- 
sical extent  by  dressing  up  the  men  who  held  their  shields  when  not 
actually  in  use,  as  stags,  apes,  lions,  unicorns,  or  any  other  favourite 
animal,  real  or  fictitious.  When  these  persons  held  the  shield  so  that  it 
covered  their  heads,  they  were  designated  siqjports,  but  if  their  heads  ap- 
peared above  the  shield  then  they  were  called  holders,  according  to  M. 
Genouillac,  who  discerns  in  this  practice  the  origin  of  those  figures  of  men 
or  animals  which  are  often  placed  on  each  side  of  an  escutcheon,  and  are 


CH.  III."^  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  131 

Some  time  before  the  exhibition  of  a  tournament,  heralds 
were  despatched  throuo:h  the  country,  to  invite  all  knights 
to  contend  for  prizes,  and  merit  the  affection  of  their 
mistresses. 

After  the  tournaments  were  proclaimed,  they  frequently 
commenced  with  skirmishing  between  the  squires  ;  and 
those  who  particularly  distinguished  themselves  were 
allowed  to  enter  the  lists  with  the  knights.  When  it 
came  to  the  turn  of  the  latter,  each  knight  usually  declared 
himself  the  servant  of  some  lady,  who  generally  presented 
him  with  a  token  of  favour,  a  veil,  a  scarf,  a  bracelet,  or, 
as  we  are  told  by  Chaucer  in  his  story  of  Troilus,  a  pencel 
of  her  sleeve,  with  which  he  adorned  his  shield  or  helmet, 
and  by  means  of  which  his  person  was  recognized  in  all  the 
vehemence  of  the  conflict.  If  these  marks  of  distinction  were 
carried  off  during  the  contest,  the  lady  sent  him  others 
to  reanimate  his  courage,  and  invigorate  his  exertions. 

In  all  these  rencounters  certain  rules  of  combat  were 
established,  which  it  was  considered  infamous  to  violate. 
Thus,  it  was  not  lawful  to  wound  an  adversary's  horse,  nor 
to  strike  a  knight  who  took  off  his  visor  or  his  helmet. 

When  the  tournaments  were  concluded,  the  conquerors 
were  conducted,  with  much  solemnity,  to  the  palace  of  the 
prince  or  baron,  where  they  were  attired  in  the  most  splen- 
did habits  of  peace,  and  disarmed  by  the  hands  of  the  fair ; 
their  deeds  were  inscribed  on  the  records  of  the  heralds  at 
arms,  and  formed  the  subject  of  the  lays  of  the  minstrel, 
which  were  spread  through  the  neighbouring  courts,  to  ex- 
'ite  emulation  or  envy. 

But  it  would  be  endless  to  describe  those  ceremonies  by 
which  tournaments  were  prepared,  accompanied,  or  followed, 
and  which  occupy,  I  am  sure,  more  than  a  fourth  j^art  of 
the  romances  of  chivalry,  which,  in  this  respect,  have 
merely  presented  an  embelUshed  picture  of  what  actually 
occurred. 

As  the  genius  of  chivalry  had  ever  studied  to  rei)resent 

now  generally  called  supporters.  The  very  terms  bla-o/i  and  heraldry 
are  both  of  German  origin,  from  hlasen.  to  blow  the  trumpet  which  sig- 
nalled the  commencement  of  the  spectacle,  while  the  herault  had  to  pro- 
cluim  aloud  (o\A  German  karen,'' to  cry,"  cf.  '•  harum  scarum,")  the 
names  of  the  combatants  and  the  conditions  of  the  contest. 


132  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

in  totirnaments  a  faithful  picture  of  the  labours  and  dan- 
gers of  war,  it  had  ever  preserved  in  war  an  image  of  the 
courtesy  which  prevailed  in  tournaments.  The  desire  of 
pleasing  some  lady,  and  of  appearing  worthy  of  her,  was  in 
the  true,  as  in  the  fictitious  combat,  one  of  the  strongest 
motives  that  prompted  to  heroic  action.  That  champion 
who,  while  rushing  into  combat,  expressed  a  wish,  as  we 
are  told,  that  his  lady  beheld  him,  must  also  have  been 
stimulated  by  the  hope  that  she  might  one  day  listen  to 
the  report  of  his  prowess.  In  real  battle  the  knight  was 
frequently  decked  with  the  device  of  his  mistress,  and  seri- 
ously offered  combat  to  an  enemy  (not,  indeed,  as  a  primary 
cause  of  quarrel,  but  where  other  grounds  of  hostility 
existed),  to  dispute  the  pre-eminence  of  the  beauty  of  their 
mistresses,  and  the  strength  of  their  attachment.  As  the 
valour,  too,  of  a  single  combatant  was  conspicuous,  and 
had  a  considerable  influence  on  the  fortune  of  the  day,  the 
same  individuals  were  led  frequently  to  encounter  each 
other,  which  gave  rise  to  that  peculiar  species  of  combat 
painted  in  the  fables  of  romance. 

The  policy  which  employed  love,  united  with  reverence 
for  the  ladies,  and  the  thirst  of  glory,  to  inspire  sentiments 
of  bravery  and  honour,  also  joined  the  heroes  of  its  creation 
by  the  ties  of  friendship.  They  became  united  for  all  their 
future  exploits,  or  for  the  accomplishment  of  some  exalted 
emprise,  which  had  a  limited  object ; — and  hence  the  frater- 
nity of  arms,  by  which  knights  are  frequently  associated  in 
tales  of  chivalry. 

The  restless  spirit  of  the  feudal  system,  and  the  institu- 
tions of  chivalry,  stimulated  their  votaries  to  roam  in  quest 
of  such  adventures  for  the  mere  pleasure  of  achieving  them. 
At  their  return,  the  knights  were  obliged  by  oath  to  give 
the  heralds -at- arms  a  faithful  account  of  their  exploits  ;  an 
obligation  which  explains  their  declining  no  service  of  dan- 
ger, though  it  was  to  be  performed  without  witnesses,  and 
might  have  been  avoided  without  detection. 

Enough,  I  trust,  has  been  said  to  account  for  that 
passion  for  arms,  that  love  of  enterprise,  and  that  extrava- 
gant species  of  gallantry,  which  were  the  mevitable  conse- 
quence of  the  feudal  principles,  and  are  the  characteristic 
features  of  romance. 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  133 

Next  to  those  encounters,  sous^lit  from  love  of  enterprise, 
or  of  the  fair,  the  great  proportion  of  eomljats  described  in 
romance  may  be  termed  judicial.  These  took  place  on  a 
defiance  of  the  challenger  to  the  accepter,  or  an  accusation 
against  a  third  party  in  whom  the  accepter  was  interested, 
or  whose  cause  he  espoused  from  a  spirit  of  chivalry.  Such 
encounters  were  suggested  by  those  judicial  combats  by 
which,  during  the  middle  ages,  disputes  in  civil  courts  were 
actually  decided.  The  judge,  or  magistrate,  unable  to  re- 
strain the  violence  of  Utigants,  and  wishing  not  to  lose  all 
shadow  of  authority,  contented  himself  with  superintend- 
ing the  ceremonies  and  regulating  the  forms  of  a  mode  of 
decision  so  consonant  to  their  temper.  This  prompt  appeal 
to  the  sword  was  also  encouraged  by  a  retributive  principle 
in  the  human  mind,  which  renders  it  natural  to  believe 
that  guilt  will  be  punished  and  innocence  vindicated.  The 
impatience  of  mankind  led  them  to  imagine  that  the  inter- 
vention ought  to  take  place  in  this  world,  and  that  a  solemn 
appeal  to  Heaven  would  be  followed  by  a  discovery  of  its 
will ;  an  opinion  strengthened  in  those  times  by  means  of 
the  clergy,  whose  interest  it  was  to  represent  Divine  power 
as  dispensing  with  the  laws  of  nature  on  the  most  frivolous 
occasions. 

In  consecjuence  too  of  the  well-known  circumstances 
which  tended  to  promote  the  influence  of  the  church, 
the  real  knight  was  frequently  characterized  by  the 
appearance  at  least  of  a  warm  and  zealous  devotion.  His 
religious  duties  consisted  in  visiting  holy  places,  in  depo- 
siting his  own  arms,  or  those  of  conquered  enemies,  in 
monasteries  or  temples,  in  the  observance  of  different 
festivals,  or  the  practice  of  exercises  of  j^enitence.  A 
bigoted  veneration  for  the  monastic  profession,  even  in- 
duced many  individuals,  both  knights  and  princes,  to  finish 
their  days  in  spiritual  seclusion.  Hence  a  romance  of 
chivalry,  as  will  be  afterwards  seen,  exhibits  examples  of 
the  most  superstitious  devotion,  and  frequently  terminates 
with  the  retirement  of  the  principal  character  to  a  monas- 
tery or  hermitage. 

To  the  love  of  war,  and  of  enterprise,  to  the  extravagant 
gallantry,  united  with  superstition,  by  which  the  order  of 
knighthood  was  distinguished,  may  be  traced  the  greater 


134  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

23roportion  of  the  adventures  delineated  in  romance.  There 
we  shall  hardly  find  a  motive  of  action  which  may  not  be 
referred  to  some  of  the  principles  by  which  society  in  those 
times  was  in  reality  actuated.  On  this  favourable  basis  of 
manners  and  ideas,  the  credulity  or  fancy  of  the  age  grafted 
the  supernatural  wonders  drawn  from  the  sources  that  have 
already  been  traced  ;  and  the  adventures  of  knights,  em- 
bellished by  these  additional  marvels,  were  exaggerated, 
extended,  and  multij^lied  to  infinity  by  the  imagination  of 
romancers. 

Such  are  probably  the  sources  whence  fablers  have  been 
supplied  with  the  general  adventures  of  chivalry,  and  the 
romantic  embellishments  by  which  they  have  been  adorned. 

III.  We  must  now  consider  how  these  adventures  and 
embellishments  have  been  appropriated  to  individual 
knights,  and  turn  our  attention  to  the  materials  which 
have  supplied  the  leading  subjects  and  the  principal  cha- 
racters of  romantic  composition. 

At  a  time  when  chivalry  excited  such  universal  admira- 
tion, and  when  its  effects  were  at  least  ostensibly  directed 
to  the  piiblic  good,  it  was  natural  that  history  and  fable 
should  be  ransacked  to  furnish  examples  which  might  in- 
crease emulation. 

Arthur  and  Charlemagne,  with  their  peers,  were  the  heroes 
most  early  and  most  generally  selected  for  this  purpose.  The 
tales  concerning  these  warriors  are  the  first  sjDecimens  extant 
of  this  sort  of  composition,  and  from  their  early  popularity, 
from  the  beauty  of  the  fictions  with  which  they  were  in  the 
beginning  supported,  and  from  flattering  the  vanity  of  the 
two  first  nations  in  Europe,  they  long  continued  (diversified 
indeed,  and  enlarged  by  subsecjuent  embelhshments,)  to  be 
the  prevalent  and  favourite  topics. 

And  here  it  is  j)roper  to  divide  the  prose  romances,  with 
which  we  shall  be  afterwards  engaged,  into  four  classes : — 
1.  Those  relating  to  Arthur  and  the  knights  of  the  Eound 
Table.  2.  Those  connected  with  Charlemagne  and  his 
Paladins.  3.  The  Spanish  and  Portuguese  romances,  which 
chiefly  contain  the  adventures  of  the  imaginary  families  of 
Amadis  and  Palmerin.  4.  AVhat  may  be  termed  classical 
romances,  which  represent  the  heroes  of  anticjuity  m  the 
guise  of  romantic  fiction. 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  135 

When  we  come  to  treat  of  the  romances  relating  to  Char- 
lemaii^ne,  we  sliall  consider  the  influence  of  the  chronicle  at- 
tributed to  Turpin ;  l)ut  our  attention  is  in  the  first  place 
demanded  by  the  romances  of  Arthur  and  the  Round  Table, 
as  they  form  the  most  ancient  and  numerous  class  of  which 
any  trace  remains.  These  originated  in  the  early  and  chi- 
merical legends  of  Armorica  and  Wales ;  the  ancient  Latin 
chronicles  of  this  island,  which  have  been  founded  on  them  ; 
and  the  subsequent  metrical  romances  of  the  English  and 
Norman  minstrels. 

The  Norman  conquerors  are  said  first  to  have  become  in- 
terested in  the  history  and  antiquities  of  Britain  during  the 
reign  of  Stephen,  as  by  that  period  they  had  begun  to  con- 
sider themselves  natives. 

From  the  writings  of  G-ildas  or  Nennius,  however,  they 
could  not  easily  have  extracted  a  consistent  or  probable  story. 

G-ildas,  or,  as  Mr.  Gibbon  has  styled  him,  the  British 
Jeremiah,  is  the  author  of  Lamentations  over  the  Destruc- 
tion of  Britain,  which  is  a  whining  elegy,  and  of  an  epistle, 
which  is  a  frantic  satire  on  the  vices  of  his  countrymen : 
he  has  given  exaggerated  expressions,  and  distorted  facts, 
instead  of  presenting  an  authentic  narrative  of  our  early 
annals,  an  important  object  which  he  might  easily  have  ac- 
complished ;  as,  according  to  tradition,  he  was  the  son  of 
Caw,  a  British  prince,  who  lived  in  the  sixth  century,  and 
was  engaged  along  with  his  father  in  the  wars  carried  on 
by  his  countrymen  against  the  Northumbrian  Saxons. 
After  the  defeat  of  the  Britons  at  Cattraeth,  he  fled  into 
Wales,  and  acted  as  schoolmaster  at  Bangor.^ 

Nennius  is  said  to  have  lived  about  the  middle  of  the 
ninth  century  :  his  work  is  merely  a  dry  epitome ;  nor  even 
of  this  abstract  does  there  exist  a  pure  and  perfect  copy. 
He  is  solicitous  to  quote  his  authorities,  l>ut  unfortunately 
they  are  not  of  the  most  unexceptionable  nature,  as  they 
consist  of  the  lives  of  saints  and  ancient  British  traditions, 
on  which  he  bestows  credit  in  proportion  to  their  absurdity. 
In  one  of  his  chapters  he  has  given  an  outline  of  the  story 
of  Brut,  which  coincides  with  the  account  of  Geoifrey  of 
Monmouth  ;  and  in  chapter  fourth  he  commences  a  circum- 

^  About  the  personality  of  Gildas  scarcely  anything  is  positively 
known.     See  Smith's  "  Diet,  of  Christian  Biography,"  ii.  672  (1880). 


136  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

stantial  detail  of  the  life  of  Merlin,  corresponding,  in  many 
respects,  with  the  incidents  of  romance.^ 

Besides  the  lachrymal  history  of  Gildas,  and  the  jejune 
narrative  of  Nennius,  there  existed  many  Welsh  tradi- 
tions, which  seem  to  have  occupied  the  attention  of  Norman 
antiquaries. 

The  annals  and  poetry  of  Wales  had  long  laboured  in 
Arthur's  commendation.  Compelled  to  yield  their  country, 
the  Welsh  avenged  themselves  on  the  Saxons  by  creating, 
in  the  person  of  Arthur,  not  only  a  phantom  of  glory  which 
towered  above  every  warrior,  but  a  j^olitical  saviour,  who 
like  the  Barbarossa  of  G-erman  jDopular  superstition,  was 
only  temporarily  hid,  and  would  one  day  reappear  and  re- 
assert the  national  independence.  This  apparition  seems 
to  have  acquired  its  chief  magnitude  and  terrors  in  the 
traditions  and  legends  of  Britany.  Walter  Calenius,  or 
Grualtier,  as  he  is  sometimes  called.  Archdeacon  of  Ox- 
ford, of  whom  a  good  account  will  be  found  in  Morley's 
"English  Writers"  (vol.  i.  pp.  584-600),  amassed  a 
great  collection  of  these  materials  during  an  expedition 
to  Armorica,  or  Britany,  a  province  from  which  the 
royal  ancestors  of  Arthur  were  believed  to  have  origi- 
nally issued.  On  his  return  to  England,  the  archdeacon 
presented  this  medley  of  historical  songs  and  traditions  to 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,"  who  founded  on  them  a  chronicle 

^  Ellis's  "  Early  Meti-ical  Romances,"  vol.  i. 

^  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  called  in  Welsh  Galffrai  or  Gruffydd  ap 
Arthur,  was,  as  the  Welsh  name  implies,  the  son  of  one  Arthur,  of  whom 
nothing  is  known.  It  has  indeed  been  supposed  by  some  that  he  was  nick- 
named "  Arthur."  on  account  of  the  chief  hero  of  his  romance  or  history, 
this  opinion  being  chiefly  gathered  from  certain  derogatory  remarks  of 
William  of  Newburgh  (who  died  1 198).  However,  as  he  appears  under  the 
name  of  "  Gaufridus  Artur  "  in  the  foundation  charter  of  Oseney  Abbey 
in  1129  (for  which  see  the  Register  of  the  Abbey,  Cotton  MS.  Vitell.  E. 
XV.  f.  6),  in  company  with  his  friend  Walter  the  Archdeacon,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  it  was  his  real  patronymic.  Losing  his  father  at  an  early  age 
he  was  brought  up  by  his  uncle  Uchtryd,  Archdeacon,  and  afterwards 
Bishop  of  Llandaff.  It  is  possible  that  he  began  his  history  somewhei'e 
about  1129,  when,  as  we  have  seen,  he  was  at  Oxford  with  Archdeacon 
Walter,  but,  as  he  himself  says,  he  had  hardly  got  half  way  through  it 
when  Alexander,  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  set  him  to  translate  the  Prophecies 
of  Merlin  from  Welsh  into  Latin,  and  this  work,  which  is  largely  quoted 
by  Ordericus  Vitalis  in  his  twelfth  book,  which  was  written  in  11.36  or 
1137,  must  have  been  finished  about  that  date.     The  first  recension  of 


CH.  III.]  GEOFFREY    OF    MONMOUTH.  137 

of  Britain,  which  was  written  in  Latin  prose,  and  is  sup- 
posed to  have  been  finished  about  1140.  A  notion  has 
been  adopted  by  some  autliors  that  Geoffrey  composed,  or 
invented,  most  part  of  the  chronicle  which  he  professed  to 

the  history,  which  is  now  lost,  is  quoted  by  Henry  of  Huntingdon  in 
1139.  as  the  work  of  Guufridus  Ai'turus,  so  it  is  probable  that  lie  did  not 
become  Archdeacon  of  ^lonmouth  till  1140,  when  his  uncle  Uchtryd  was 
made  Bishop.  Having;  lost  his  patrons,  Kobert  of  Gloucester,  and 
Alexander.  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  as  well  as  his  uncle  Uchtryd  in  1147-8, 
he  seems  to  have  sought  for  a  patron  at  Stephen's  Court,  and  to  have 
addressed  the  poem  known  as  the  "  Vita  ^Nlerlini,-'  to  Kobert  dcChesney. 
the  new  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  in  1149.  He  was  ordained  priest  by  Arch- 
bishop TheobalH,  February  15th.  1152,  atid  on  the  24tli  of  the  same 
month  was  consecrated  Bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  but  as  the  Gwentian  "  Brat 
y  Twysoysogion  "  says,  ho  never  entered  upon  his  functions,  but  died  at 
Llandaff,  in  1 154. 

The  existence  of  the  Welsh  original  of  Geoffrey's  history  has  been 
doubted  by  some,  principally  on  account  of  the  playful  tone  of  his  epi- 
logue. There  are,  however,  good  reasons  for  believing  in  its  existence. 
Two  of  the  Welsh  versions  have  colophons  stating  that  Walter  the  Arch- 
deacon translated  the  work  from  Welsh  into  Latin  in  his  younger  days, 
and  again  in  his  old  age  translated  from  Latin  into  Welsh,  and  Geoffrey 
Gaimar  states  in  the  epilogue  to  his  poem  that  he  had  taken  passages 
from  the  good  book  of  Oxford,  ''  Ki  fust  Walter  I'arcediaen.'"  This  last, 
however,  may  have  been  either  the  book  l)rought  out  of  Brittany,  or  a 
copy  of  Xt-nnius.  M.  Paulin  Paris  thinks  that  the  book  from  Brittany 
was  nothing  but  a  Xennius,  and  that  that  work  was  written  on  the  Con- 
tinent;  this  opinion,  however,  will  hardly  hold  good.  The  Historia 
Britonum,  originally  ascribed  to  Gildas,  but  now  to  Nennius.  a  monk  of 
Bangor,  was  compiled  by  several  writers,  the  last  of  whom  gives  his 
date  as  946,  adds  that  this  was  the  tifth  year  of  Edmund.  King  of  the 
English  (see  Rev.  W.  Gunn's  edition  of  the  Vatican  MS.  of  the  Chro- 
nicle). The  other  dates  refer  almost  exclusively  to  the  British  Islands, 
and  only  one  very  slight  mention  is  made  of  Armorica,  and  the  composi- 
tion, according  to  Mr.  W.  F.  Skene  (Chronicles  of  the  Picts  and  Scots, 
&c.),  is  markedly  Welsh.  Mr.  Skene  conjectures  that  it  was  made 
known  to  the  Saxons  through  the  conquests  of  King  Edmund  in  Strath- 
clyde  in  945.  William  of  Malmesbury  refers  to  it  as  the  "  Gesta  Bri- 
tonum,""  and  Henry  of  Huntingdon  speaks  of  it  as  the  work  of  Gildas. 
Geoffrey  makes  several  (piotations  from  Bede  and  Gildas,  with  or  with- 
out acknowledgment,  but  though  he  makes  far  more  considerable  (piota- 
tions  from  Xennius  he  never  once  mentions  him,  and  on  one  occasion 
while  using  the  words  of  X'ennius  about  St.  Germanus,  he  refers  to 
Gildas,  whose  extant  W(5rks  do  not  mention  that  saint.  The  whole  ques- 
tion is  very  ably  discussed  in  Mr.  H.  L.  I).  Ward's  Catalogue  (vol.  i. 
pp.  203-222),  from  which  this  note  is  chiefly  borrowed.  Mr.  Ward  is  of 
opinion  that  the  Breton  book  was  not  a  mere  copy  of  X'ennius,  but  that 
much  of  the  history  was  founded  on  it.  The  sites  of  the  chief  Arthurian 
events,  viz.  the  twelve  ballads,  as  given  by  X'^ennius,  may  be  fairly  iden- 


138  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

translate  from  British  originals.  This  idea  was  first  started 
by  Polvdore  Virgil  [Historia  Anglicana,  Lugd.  Bat.  1649, 
c.  i.  p.  25],  who  has  been  followed  bv  later  writers  ;  but  it 
has  been  satisfactorily  shown  by  Mr.  Ellis  that  there  is  no 
solid  reason  to  doubt  the  repeated  assertions  of  G-eoffrey, 
that  he  has  merely  rendered  into  Latin  the  text  of  Breton 
authorities.  His  fabulous  relations  concerning  Brut,  Ar- 
thur, and  Merlin,  coincide  with  those  contained  in  Nennius, 
or  the  Lives  of  the  Saints,  and  therefore  could  not  have 
been  invented  by  Geoffrey.    The  history,  too,  bears  internal 

tified  with  places  along  the  line  of  the  Koman  wall  between  Clyde  and 
Forth  (see  Skene's  '•'  Four  Ancient  Books  of  Wales,"  vol.  i.  pp.  50-58)  ; 
but  the  story  of  Arthur  had  travelled  south  before  the  days  of  Geoffrey. 
The  monks  of  Laon,  who  visited  Cornwall  in  1113,  were  shown  rocks 
called  Arthur's  Chair  and  Arthur's  Oven  (which  still  exist  between 
Bodmin  and  Cameltbrd.  the  latter  being  a  Kistvaen),  and  were  told  that 
this  was  his  native  land,  and  they  narrowly  escaped  assault  at  Bodmin 
for  doubting  that  Arthur  was  yet  alive.  They  also  mention  that  similar 
legends  existed  in  Brittany  (see  Hermannus,  De  Miraculis  S.  ^Nlarise  Lau- 
dunensis,  bk.  ii.  15.  16,  in  Migne's  '•  Patrologia  Latina,"  torn.  156,  col. 
983).  Thus,  since  also  Geoffrey's  Arthur  is  the  grandson  of  an  Armori- 
can  prince,  and  his  Armorican  cousin  Hoel  is  his  companion  both  at 
home  and  in  Gaul,  and  Cadwalader  finds  a  last  hope  for  the  degenerate 
Britons  in  Armorica,  one  can  hardly  doubt  that  Geoffrey  derived  much 
of  the  last  part  of  his  history  from  a  Breton  source. 

As  regards  Walter  the  Archdeacon  little  is  known.  He  is  mentioned 
(according  to  White  Kennet.  Bishop  of  Peterborough,  Laus.  MS.  935  in 
the  British  Museum)  as  Ai'chdeacon  of  Oxford  in  1104  and  1111.  In 
1113  he  witnessed  a  grant,  copied  in  the  Chronicon  de  Abingdon,  he  acted 
as  Justiciary  at  W^inchester  in  1123,  and  at  Peterborough  in  1 125  (see 
Chi-onicon  de  Abingdon,  Eolls  edition,  vol.  ii.  pp.  62,63,  116,  and  Gun- 
ton's  "  History  of  the  Church  of  Peterborough,*'  p.  274).  In  1129,  he 
witnessed  the  foundation  charter  of  Oseney  (see  above).  His  successor, 
Kobert  Foliot.  was  appointed  in  1151.  In  documents  of  his  own  time  he 
has  no  further  designation,  and  he  has  been  frequently  confounded  with 
another  Walter,  Ai-chdeacon  of  Oxford,  the  celebrated  Walter  Map, 
who  held  that  office  in  1196.  Bale  (Scriptorum  Bi*ytanie  Catalogus, 
1559)  calls  him  Walter  Calenius.  This  epithet  some  have  connected  with 
Calne,  others  with  Calena,  a  corruption  of  •'•  Calleva  Atrebatum,"'  gene- 
rally identified  with  Silchester.  In  Leland"s  time  Calena  was  taken  to 
mean  Oxford,  in  which  sense  Bale  probably  understood  it.  Camden, 
however,  started  a  tlieory  that  Calena  was  a  corruption  of  "  Gwall  Nen  " 
(the  old  wall),  stated  by  him  to  have  been  the  British  name  of  Walling- 
ford.  This  view  was  adopted  by  Kennet,  and  from  the  latter  by  Le 
Neve  in  his  Fasti,  and  thus,  to  quote  ^Ir.  Ward.  "Archdeacon  Walter 
is  now  comnmnly  styled  Walter  of  Wallingford." 

For  a  fuller  account  of  the  History  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  see 
Ward's  "  Catalogue." — H.  Jenneb. 


CH.  III.]  OKIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  139 

evidence  of  its  Armorieau  descent,  as  it  ascribes  to  Hoel,  a 
hero  of  that  country,  manv  of  the  victories  which  tradition 
attributes  to  Arthur. 

But  whether  this  celebrated  chronicle  be  the  invention  of 
Geoli'rey,  or  whether  it  presents  a  faithful  picture  of  the 
traditions  and  fables  at  that  period  received  as  history, 
there  can  be  no  doubt,  according  to  the  expression  of  Mr. 
Ellis,  who  has  given  an  analysis  of  the  whole  work,  that  it 
is  one  of  the  corner-stones  of  romance. 

This  chronicle  consists  of  nine  books,  each  of  which  is 
divided  into  chapters,  and  commences  with  the  history  of 
Brutus,  the  son  of  Sylvius,  and  grandson  of  Ascanius,  who, 
being-  exiled  from  Italy  in  consequence  of  having  acciden- 
tally slain  his  father,  takes  refuge  in  Greece.  There  he 
obtains  the  hand  of  Imogen,  daughter  of  a  king  of  that 
country,  and  a  fleet,  with  which  he  arrives  in  Albion  (then 
only  inhabited  by  a  few  giants),  and  founds  the  kingdom 
called  Britain  from  his  name.  There  is  next  presented  an 
account  of  the  fabulous  race  of  Brutus,  particularly  Ai'thur, 
and  the  whole  concludes  with  the  reign  of  Cadwallader,  one 
of  the  descendants  of  that  hero. 

It  would  indeed  be  difficult  to  extract  any  authentic  his- 
tory from  the  chronicle  of  Geoffrey,  but  it  stamped  with 
the  character  of  veracity  the  exploits  of  the  early  knights 
of  chivalry,  and  authorized  a  compilation  of  the  fables  re- 
lated of  these  fanciful  heroes.  In  the  age  in  which  the 
chronicle  appeared  it  was  difficult  to  arrive  at  truth,  and 
error  was  not  easily  detected.  Criticism  was  hardly  called 
into  existence,  and  falsehood  was  adopted  with  an  eagerness 
proportioned  to  its  envelopment  in  the  fascinating  garb 
of  wonder.  The  readers  were  more  ignorant  than  the  authors, 
and  a  credulous  age  readily  grafted  on  stories  that  were 
evidently  false,  incidents  that  were  physically  impossible. 
These  were  drawn  from  the  sources  already  pointed  out,  and 
were  added,  according  to  fancy,  to  unauthentic  histories, 
which  thus  degenerated,  or  were  exalted,  into  romance. 

In  the  ehronicle  of  Geoffrey,  indeed,  there  is  nothing  said 
of  the  exploits  of  Tristran  and  Lancelot,  or  conquest  of  the 
Sangreal,  or  Holy  Grail,  which  constitute  so  large  a  propor- 
tion of  the  Round  Table  romances.  These  were  subsequent 
additions,  but  probably  derived,  like  the  chronicle,  from 


140 


HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  l^H.  Ill 


ancient  Britisli  originals,  as  the  names  of  the  heroes,  and 
the  scenes  of  their  adventures,  are  still  British. 

The  work  of  G-eoffi-ey  of  Monmouth,  and  such  tradi- 
tionary fables,  were  the  foundation  of  those  tales  which 
appeared  in  a  metrical  form,  the  shape  in  which,  it  is  ac- 
knowledged, romance  was  first  exhibited. 

It  seems,  also,  unquestionable,  that  these  metrical  ro- 
mances, though  written  in  England,  first  apj^eared  in  the 
French  language. 

In  its  earliest  signification,  the  term  Romance  was  ap- 
l^ropriated  to  the  dialects  spoken  in  the  different  European 
provinces  that  had  been  subjected  to  the  Eoman  emj^ire, 
and  of  which  Latin  was  the  basis,  though  other  materials 
might  enter  into  the  construction.  The  romance  was  at 
one  time  the  colloquial  language  of  G-aul.  Subsequently, 
indeed,  various  dialects  were  introduced  into  that  country, 
but  it  was  still  preserved  in  Normandy ;  and  thence  was 
again  diffused  througli  the  other  provinces  north  of  the 
Loire.  Hence  Romance  was  first  merely  a  general  designa- 
tion applied  to  works  written  in  the  vernacular  as  opposed 
to  those  composed  in  Latin ;  and  was  often  applied  to  real 
history.  Its  first  application  to  an  epic  poem  was  in  the 
title  of  Wace's  "  Roman  du  Brut." 

The  earliest  sj^ecimens  of  northern  French  literature  are 
metrical  Lives  of  the  Saints.  These  are  supposed  to  have 
been  translated  from  Latin  compositions  about  the  middle 
of  the  eleventh  century.  In  the  beginning  of  the  next 
century  they  Avere  followed  by  several  didactic  works,  as 
the  Bestiarius,  a  poem  on  natural  history,  by  Philip  de 
Thaun,  addressed  to  the  queen  of  Henry  I.  of  England, 
and  a  metrical  treatise  on  chronology  by  the  same  author. 
It  is  believed,  however,  that  no  trace  of  a  professed  work 
of  fiction — no  specimen  of  what  we  should  now  term  a 
romance,  is  to  be  found  before  the  middle  of  the  twelfth 
century.  Then,  indeed,  the  minstrels  introduced  a  great 
variety  of  their  own  compositions,  and  formed  new  combi- 
nations from  the  numerous  materials  in  their  possession. 

Before  this  time  the  language  in  which  they  wrote  had 
passed  into  England  by  means  of  the  Norman  Conquest. 
The  English,  indeed,  previous  to  this  event  had  been  pre- 
pared for  the  reception  of  the  French  language.     Edward 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  141 

the  Confessor  had  been  educated  in  France,  and,  on  his 
accession  to  the  throne  of  Eughmd,  i)romoted  liis  con- 
tinental favourites  to  the  hiojhest  dignities.  Under  their 
influence  the  nation  began  to  lay  aside  its  English  customs, 
and  to  imitate  the  language  and  manners  of  the  French. 
(Ingulph.  Hist.  Crovl.  p.  62,  ed.  Tyrwhitt,  vol.  iv.,  or 
Lond.,  1843,  p.  xvii.  n.  5.)  These  fashions  having  been 
adopted  in  comj^liance  with  the  caprice  of  the  reigning 
monarch,  might  probably  have  expired  imder  his  succes- 
sors ;  but  before  this  extirpation  could  be  effected,  the 
French  language,  by  means  of  the  Norman  Conquest, 
became  interwoven  with  the  new  political  system.  The 
king,  the  chief  officers  of  state,  and  a  great  proportion  of 
the  nobility,  were  Normans,  and  understood  no  tongue  but 
that  of  their  ^^»wn  country.  Hence  the  few  Saxons  who 
were  still  admitted  at  court  had  the  strongest  inducements 
to  acc^uire  the  language  of  their  conquerors.  William  the 
First  also  distributed  a  share  of  his  acquisitions  among  his 
great  barons  who  had  attended  liim  ;  and  who,  when  it 
was  in  their  power,  retired  from  court  to  their  feudal 
domains,  followed  by  vassals  from  among  their  country- 
men. Hence  the  language  which  was  used  in  their  common 
conversation  and  judicial  ^proceedings,  was  diffused  through 
the  most  distant  provinces.  All  ecclesiastical  preferments, 
too,  were  V)estowed  on  Norman  chaplains,  and  those  who 
were  promoted  to  abbacies  were  anxious  to  stock  their 
monasteries  with  foreigners.  Tlius  the  higher  orders  of 
the  clergy  and  laity  spoke  the  French  language,  while  the 
lower  retained  the  use  of  their  native  tongue,  but  fre- 
quently added  a  knowledge  of  the  dialect  of  the  con- 
querors. Matters  continued  in  this  state  with  little  varia- 
tion during  the  reigns  of  the  Norman  kings  and  the  first 
monarchs  of  the  house  of  Plantagenet. 

The  Norman  minstrels,  accordingly,  who  had  followed 
their  barons  to  the  English  court,  naturally  wrote  and 
recited  their  metrical  compositions  in  the  language  which 
was  most  familiar  to  themselves,  and  which,  being  most 
prevalent,  procured  them  the  greatest  number  of  readers  of 
rank  and  distinction. 

From  the  early  connection  of  the  Normans  with  the 
people  of  Britany,  the  minstrels  had  received  from   the 


142  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

latter  those  traditions,  tlie  remains  of  whicli  they  brought 
over  with  them  to  England/ 

These  they  found  in  a  more  perfect  state  among  the 
Welsh  of  this  island."  The  invasion  of  the  Normans,  and 
the  overthrow  of  the  Saxons,  were  events  beheld  with  exul- 
tation by  the  descendants  of  the  aboriginal  Britons,  who 
readily  associated  with  those  who  had  avenged  them  on 
their  bitterest  enemies  ;  while  to  the  Normans  the  legends 
of  the  Welsh  must  have  been  more  acceptable  than  those 
of  the  Saxons.  In  the  long  course  of  political  intrigue, 
carried  on  between  the  period  of  the  Norman  invasion  and 
final  subjugation  of  Wales,  an  intercourse  must  have 
taken  place  between  that  country  and  England  sufficient 

^  Ellis's  "  Early  Metrical  Romances,"  vol,  i.  p.  36. 

'-'  At  the  present  time  opinions  diametrically  opposite  are  held  about 
the  importance  of  the  early  Welsh  traditions  as  a  factor  in  the  Romances 
of  Chivalry.  While  Herr  Schulz  says  that  the  poems  of  Aneurin, 
Taliessin,  Hyw^arch,  Meradin,  &c.,  offer  a  dii'ect  reflection  of  the  person 
of  Arthur,  Mr.  Nash,  with  far  deeper  scholarship  and  sounder  judgment, 
says,  it  is  by  no  means  clear  that  the  Welsh  had  ever  heard  of  Arthur 
as  a  king  before  the  twelfth  century,  when  Rhys  ap  Tewdwr  brought 
the  roll  of  the  Round  Table  to  Glamorganshire.  There  is  not,  says 
the  same  authority,  a  single  ancient  poem  extant  which  relates  to  any 
Avarlike  feat  of  Arthur  against  the  Saxons  (Taliesin,  p.  328).  The 
poetical  (with,  I  suppose,  the  triadic)  was  undoubtedly  the  earliest  un- 
written form  of  Welsh  literature.  Now,  Mr.  W.  D.  Nash,  in  his 
Taliesin,  or  the  Bards  and  Druids  of  Britain,  etc.,  Lond.  1858, 
points  (jut  as  an  unparalleled  phenomenon  in  literary  history  that 
the  bards,  minstrels,  and  singers,  who  teemed  among  the  Welsh, 
have  not  handed  down  one  single  love-song  or  one  tale  of  adven- 
ture ...  in  poetry.  This  has  been  done,  however,  in  prose,  hence  he 
argues  that  such  productions  Avere  a  late  foreign  importation,  and  con- 
cludes that  the  Welsh  probably  derived  more  from,  than  they  imparted 
to  the  Romantic  literature  of  Europe.  That  the  prose  tales  (in  the 
Mabinogion,  published  by  Lady  Guest,  new  ed.,  London,  1877)  contain 
many  incidents  which  have  a  common  origin  with  those  found  in  the 
Romances  of  Chivalry  is  undeniable,  but  how  far  that  pristine  source  is 
Celtic  is  far  from  determined.  Mr.  Matthew  Arnold  is  willing  to  admit 
in  the  tales  of  the  jNIabinogion  a  reflection  of  astronomical  and  solar 
myths.  The  personages  in  these  tales,  he  saj's,  "  belong  to  an  older 
pagan  mythological  world.  The  very  flrst  thing,"  he  truly  adds,  "  that 
strikes  one  in  reading  the  Mabinogion  is,  how  evidently  the  me- 
diaeval story-teller  [the  oldest  manuscript  of  these  tales  is  of  the  four- 
teenth century]  is  pillaging  an  antiquity  of  which  he  does  not  fully  pos- 
sess the  secret  ;  he  is  like  a  peasant  building  his  hut  on  the  site  of  Hali- 
carnassus  or  Ephesus  :  he  builds,  but  what  he  builds  is  full  of  materials 
of  Avhich  he  knows  not  the  history." 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  143 

to  account  for  the  interchange  of  any  literary  materials. 
The  British  lays  communicated  to  the  French  minstrels  in 
EuL^lan<l  were  seldom  committed  to  writing.  Hence  the 
same  story  was  repeated  with  endless  variations,  and  this 
system  of  traditional  incident  was  added  to  the  more 
stable  relations  contained  in  the  chronicle  of  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth. 

It  seems  to  be  generally  lielieved  that  French  romances 
in  rhyme  appeared  in  England  and  Normandy  previous  to 
any  attempt  of  this  nature  at  the  court  of  Paris.  This  is 
evinced  by  the  more  liberal  patronage  of  the  English 
princes,  the  style  and  character  of  the  romances  them- 
selves, and  the  persons  to  whom  the  poems  were  originally 
addressed. 

The  oldest  of  these  French  metrical  romances  is  one 
founded  on  the  chronicle  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  and 
entitled  Le  Brut  :^  it  was  written  in  the  year  1155,  by 
Robert  Wace,  a  native  of  Jersey,  who  brought  down  his 
work  from  the  time  of  the  imaginary  Brutus  to  the  death 
of  Cadwallader,  the  sera  where  Geoffrey  ends  ;  but  it  was 
subsequently  carried  on  by  Gaimar  -  and  others  to  the  age 
of  William  Rufus.  Wace  is  also  the  author  of  Le  Roman 
le  Rou,  a  fabulous  and  metrical  history  of  the  Dukes  of 
Nomiandy  from  the  time  of  RoUo.  These  metrical  his- 
tories soon  introduced  compositions  professedly  fictitious, 
in  which  the  indefatigable  Wace  first  led  the  way.  The 
Chevalier  au  Lion*  seems  to  be  one  of  the  earliest 
romances  in  rhyme  which  has  descended  to  our  knowledge. 
In  the  end  of  the  twelfth  and  beginning  of  the  thirteenth 

^  Gaimar  is  believed  to  have  been  the  first  who  translated  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth  into  any  modern  language.  At  all  events  he  obtained  a  copy 
of  the  Historia  Britonum  for  that  purpose  from  Walter  Espec.  who 
died  in  115:3.  But  Gaimars  •"  Brut,''  which  was  soon  eclipsed  by  that 
of  Wace  (finished  in  1155),  has  now  disappeared,  having  been  rejplaced 
by  Wace"s  composition  in  the  four  extant  copies  of  the  Estorie  dcs 
Engles,see  British  Museum  Catalogue  of  Manuscript  Romances,  compiled 
by  H.  L.  ]).  Ward,  edited  by  E.  M.  Thompson,  vol.  i.  p.  423. 

-  Gaimar  wrote   before   Wace,  so  could  hardly  have  been  his  con 
tinuator. — Lieu. 

^  This  poem  is  not  by  Wace,  but  by  Chrestien  de  Troyes,  For  an 
account  of  Wace  and  his  works,  see  J.  G.  T.  Griisse's  '•  Lehrbuch  ciner 
allgemeinen   Literiirgeschichte."'  etc.,  Bd.  2.  Abth.   ;>.  p.  104  ef  scq. — 

LlEB. 


144  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

century,  an  infinite  variety  of  French  metrical  romances 
on  the  subject  of  Arthur  and  his  knights  of  the  Round 
Table ^  appeared  in  England  and  Normandy,  as  the  Sau- 
greal,  Perceval,  &c.,  written  by  Chrestien  de  Troyes,  Menes- 
sier,  and  others. 

About  the  same  period  a  great  number  of  French 
romances,  in  which  classical  heroes  are  celebrated,  were 
founded  on  the  history  of  the  Trojan  war.  Few  of  these, 
however,  at  least  at  an  early  period,  were  converted  into 
prose,  while  the  metrical  romances  relating  to  the  Round 
Table,  either  from  accident  or  from  flattering  the  vanity 
and  prejudices  of  a  nation  by  the  celebration  of  its  fictitious 
heroes,  have,  for  the  most  part,  been  reduced  into  jDrose, 
and  constituted,  thus  transformed,  a  formidable  compila- 
tion, which  eame  in  time  to  supersede  the  metrical 
originals. 

These  prose  romances,  which  form  the  j^roper  subject  of 

'  "  He  [Arthur]  made  the  round  table  for  their  behoue 

yt  none  of  them  shold  sitt  aboue." 

See  The  Green  Knight,  p.  224,1.  13,  in  Sir  F.  Madden's  edition  of"  Syr 
Gawayne,"  1839  :  he  adds,  p.  353,  '•  the  earliest  authority  for  this  tradi- 
tion is  Wace,  who  inserts  it  in  his  translation  of  GeofFre}^  and  adds  that 
the  round  table  was  instituted  by  Arthur  for  the  purpose  of  avoiding 
disputes  of  precedence  among  his  knights." — See  Le  Koux  de  Lincy's 
edition  of  the  Eoman  de  Brut,  1836,  1.  2,  p.  74.  Robert  of  Brunne  trans- 
lates this  literally  in  the  inedited  portion  of  his  Chronicle  [MS.  Inner 
Temple  Library,  JSo.  511,  fo.  62b.].  Lazamon  goes  further,  and  not  only 
gives  the  history  of  the  Table  at  much  greater  length,  but  adds  the  nar- 
rative (for  which  he  cites  no  source)  of  a  quarrel  which  was  the  more 
immediate  occasion  of  the  institution.  An  inedited  Arthurian  romance 
preserved  in  the  Red  Book  of  Bath  of  the  fifteenth  centui-y,  contains 
some  lines  on  this  subject. 

Precedence  at  table  Avas  a  point  of  great  importance  and  matter  of 
legislation  with  the  Welsh.  In  the  laws  of  Howel  Dda,  all  the  officers 
of  the  palace  have  their  places  in  the  hall  specified,  some  having  their 
seats  above  and  some  below  the  partition,  which  is  supposed  to  have  cor- 
responded with  the  dais  still  seen  at  the  upper  end  of  baronial  halls.  See 
Myv.  Ai-ch.  2nd  ed.  ii.  p.  104,  etc  See  also  the  account  of  Celtic 
banquets,  by  Posidonius,  in  Athenseus  Naucratita,  Deipnosophistse,  Lib. 
iv.  c.  32.  "Orav  Sk  TrXeioveg  avvdeiTri'uxnv,  >cd^i)VTai  jiev  tv  kvkXoj.  fieaog 
ds  0  Kpc'iTKTTOQ  djQ  CIV  Kopv(pdiog  x^P^w,  Siacptpujv  Tiov  dX\u)v  i'j  Kara  Tr\v 
7ro\sixiK)]v  tvxf.pfiav,  ?/  Kara  to  y'tvoc,  ?'/  Kara  ttXovtov,  etc. 

Prom  Britany  the  Institution  of  the  Round  Table  or,  at  least,  its  tra 
dition,  was  introduced  into  Celtic  Britain  by  Rhys  ap  Tewdur,  see  Nash, 
Taliesin,  p.  198. 


CH.  III.]  ORIGIN    OF    ROMANTIC    FICTION.  145 

our  enquiry,  were  mostly  written  in  the  course  of  the 
thirteenth,  fourteenth,  and  fifteenth  centuries.  It  is  ex- 
tremely difficult,  however,  to  ascertain  the  precise  date  of 
the  composition  of  each,  or  to  point  out  the  authors  by 
whom  they  were  written. 

The  data  by  which  we  might  attempt  to  fix  the  chronology 
of  the  prose  romances,  and  which,  at  first  view,  would 
appear  to  be  at  once  easy  and  certain,  are,  1.  The  antiquity 
of  the  language ;  2.  The  manners  represented  ;  since  in 
ancient  romances  a  delineation  is  given  not  of  the  customs, 
ceremonies,  or  dress  of  the  period  in  which  the  imaginary 
heroes  are  feigned  to  have  existed,  but  of  those  which  pre- 
vailed at  the  time  of  the  composition  of  the  work.  The 
tournaments  in  particular,  with  a  description  of  which 
every  romance  is  filled,  should  assist  in  this  research. 
Thus,  at  the  institution  of  these  spectacles,  the  persons 
who  had  been  long  admitted  into  the  order  of  chivalry  con- 
tended during  the  first  day,  and  the  new  knights  on  the 
succeeding  ones.  In  process  of  time  the  new  knights  opened 
the  tournament,  and  the  squires  were  allowed  to  joust 
with  them,  but  at  length  the  distinctions  which  had 
formerly  existed  between  the  knight  and  the  squire  became, 
in  a  great  measure,  confounded.  The  light,  however,  that 
might  naturally  be  expected  to  be  drawn  hence,  has  been 
darkened  by  the  authors  of  the  prose  romances  having 
servilely  copied,  in  some  instances,  their  metrical  i^roto- 
types,  and  thus,  without  warning,  represented  the  manners 
of  a  preceding  age.  In  most  instances,  I  believe,  the  prose 
romances  were  accommodated  to  the  opinions  and  manners 
subsisting  at  the  period  of  this  new  fabrication  ;  but  it  is 
impossible  to  say  with  certainty  what  has  been  adopted 
and  what  is  original.  3.  The  name  of  the  person  to  whom 
the  romance  is  addressed,  or  at  whose  solicitation  it  is  said 
to  be  written,  may  be  of  use  in  ascertaining  the  date.  But 
the  authors  title  their  patrons  in  so  general  a  way,  that  the 
inference  to  be  drawn  is  vague  and  uncertain.  Their  works 
are  written  at  the  desire  of  King  Henry  or  King  Edward 
of  England,  and  hence  the  period  of  their  composition  is 
only  limited  to  the  reign  of  one  of  the  numerous  monarchs 
who  bore  these  names.  4.  The  date  of  the  publication 
may  be  of  assistance  in  fixing  the  chronology  of  some  of 

I.  L 


146  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

the  later  romances  of  chivalry.  But  even  this  trifling  aid 
is  in  most  instances  denied,  the  earliest  impression  being 
generally  without  date.  Hence  I  am  afraid  that  these 
data  will  be  found,  in  most  cases,  to  afford  but  feeble  and 
uncertain  assistance. 

With  respect  to  the  authors  of  the  jDrose  romances,  it 
may  be  in  the  first  place  remarked,  that  these  compositions 
were  not  announced  to  the  reader  as  works  of  mere  imagi- 
nation, but,  on  the  contrary,  were  always  affirmed  by  their 
authors  (who  threw  much  opprobrium  on  the  lying  metrical 
romances),  to  contain  matter  of  historical  fact.  Nor  was 
this  doubted  by  the  simplicity  of  the  readers ;  and  the 
fables  which  had  been  disbelieved  while  in  verse,  were 
received  without  suspicion  on  their  conversion  into  prose. 
Hence  it  became  the  interest  of  the  real  authors,  in  order 
to  give  their  works  the  stamp  of  authority,  to  abjure 
the  metrical  romances,  from  which  they  were  in  fact  com- 
piled, and  to  feign  either  that  these  fables  had  been  trans- 
lated by  them  from  Latin,  or  revised  from  ancient  French 
l^rose,  in  which  they  had  been  originally  written, — aver- 
ments which  should  never  be  credited  unless  otherwise 
established  to  be  true.  Indeed,  some  writers,  though  theirs 
is  not  the  general  view,  have  supposed  that  this  system  of 
mendacity  was  carried  still  farther,  and  that  fictitious 
names  were  generally  assumed  by  the  real  authors.^ 

Merlin.^ 

The  demons,  alarmed  at  the  number  of  victims  which 
daily  escaped  their  fangs  since  the  birth  of  our  Saviour, 
held  a  council  of  war.  It  was  there  resolved  that  one  of 
their  number  should  be  sent  to  the  world  with  instructions 
to  engender  on  some  virgin  a  child,^  who  might  act  as 

^  Ritson,  Ancient  Entjlish  Metrical  Romances,  vol.  i.  p.  45. 

2  Sensuyt  le  pmier  volume  de  Merlin.  Qui  est  le  premier  liure  de  la 
Table  ronde.  Avec  plusieurs  choses  moult  recreatiue.  P.  le  Noir, 
Paris,  1528.     See  supp.  note. 

^  Cf.  Tobit,  iii.  8,  etc.,  and  vi.  13,  14,  etc.  See  also,  infra,  the  story 
of  Beli)hagor  by  Macchiavelli,  and  the  Oriental  Saga  of  the  angels 
Harut  and  Marut,  in  the  commentators  on  (Sura,  ii.  96)  the  Koran.  In 
the  Chronicle  of  Philippe  Mouskes,  Bishop  of  Tournai,  a  diabolical 


CH.  III.]  MERLIN.  147 

their  vieei^erent  on  earth,  and  thus  counteract  the  great 
plan  that  had  been  laid  for  the  salvation  of  mankind. 
With  this  view  the  infernal  deputy,  having  assumed  a 
human  form,  insinuated  himself  into  the  confidence,  and 
obtained  admittance  into  the  house,  of  a  wealthy  Briton 
[i.  fol.  1,  Paris,  1528].  The  fiend  (though  this  was  foreign 
from  the  purpose  of  his  mission),  could  not  resist  embracing 
an  early  opportunity  of  strangling  his  host,  and  then  pro- 
ceeded to  attempt  the  seduction  of  his  three  daughters, 
which  was  more  peculiarly  an  object  of  his  terrestrial 
sojourn.  The  youngest  of  the  family  alone  resisted  his 
artifices  [i.  fol.  4],  but  she  at  length  experienced  the  fate 
of  her  sisters,  while  rendered  unconscious  by  sleep.  On 
awakening,  she  was  much  perplexed  by  what  had  occurred, 
and  confessed  herself  to  a  holy  man  called  Blaise,  who  had 
all  along  been  her  protector,  but  who  acknowledged  him- 
self altogether  incompetent  to  account  for  the  events  of 
the  preceding  night  [i.  f.  5]. 

The  judges  of  the  land,  who  soon  after  discovered  the 
pregnancy  of  the  young  lady,  were  about  to  condemn  her 
to  death  [i.  f.  6],  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
country ;  ^  but  Blaise  represented  that  the  execution  should 

origin  is  attributed  to  Eleonora  of  Aquitaine,  who  espoused  Louis-le- 
Jeune,  King  of  France,  and  J.  Brompton  has  preserved  (Hist.  Franc, 
xiii.  215)  a  similar  legend,  and  in  the  Livre  de  Baudouin  (p.  13)  Com- 
tesse  Jeanne  de  Flandre  is  supposed  to  be  a  daughter  of  the  evil  spirit. 
See  Reiffenberg,  Introduction  to  Chronicle  of  Philippe  de  Mouskes, 
p.  Ixviii.     See  supp.  note. 

'  In  another  old  romance,  a  regulation  of  this  sort  is  said  to  have 
existed  in  France.  "  C'estoit  la  coustume,  en  ce  tems,  telle,  que  quand 
une  femme  estoit  grosse,  que  ce  n'estoit  de  son  Mari,  ou  qu'elle  ne  fust 
raariee,  on  I'ardoit."  (L.  Hist,  plaisante  du  noble  Siperis  de  Vinevaulx 
et  de  ses  dix  sept  fils.)  In  the  Orlando  Furioso  this  punishment  is  at- 
tributed to  the  law  of  Scotland  ; 

"  L'aspralegge  di  Scoziaempia  e  severa  "  (C.  iv.  st.  59, 1.  425  Chalmers). 

Ilinaldo  on  hearing  of  it,  exclaims  with  indignation, 

'•'  Sia  maladetto  chi  tal  legge  pose, 

F,  maladetto  chi  la  puo  patire ; 

Debitamcnte  muore  una  Crudele, 

Xon  chi  da  vita  al  suo  amator  fidele  "  (C.  iv.  st.  63). 

See  also  Jubinal,  Nouv.  Kec,  i.  9.  In  later  times,  at  all  events,  the 
laws  were  milder,  under  Saint  Louis  disinheritance  was  the  punishment 
for  filJe  noble  qui  s'est  laissee  engrosser.  In  Maine  and  Anjou,  "  les  fiiles 


148  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

be  at  least  deferred,  as  the  child  who  was  about  to  come 
into  the  world  ought  not  to  be  involved  in  the  punish- 
ment of  the  mother.  The  criminal  was  accordingly  shut 
up  in  a  tower,  where  she  gave  birth  to  the  celebrated 
Merlin/  whom  Blaise  instantly  hurried  to  the  baptismal 
font,  and  thus  frustrated  the  hopes  of  the  demons  when 
on  the  verge  of  completion  [i.  f.  7].  Merlin,  however,  in 
spite  of  this  timely  redemption,  retained  many  marks  of 

qui  aA'aient  atteint  vingt-cinq  ans  pouvoient  impiinement  devenir  en- 
ceintes. La  coutume  alors  donnoit  tort  aux  parents  ;  elle  supposoit  que 
c'etoit  leur  faute,  puisquils  avoient  attendu  si  tard  a  marier  leurs  filles." 
See  Le  Grand  d'Aussy's  note  to  the  Fabliau  du  Voleur  que  Notre  Dame 
Sauva. — LiEB. 

In  Scotland  a  distinction  is  made  between  Notour  and  simple  adultery. 
Notour  is  when  the  guilt}-  parties  live  openly  at  bed  and  board  and 
beget  children.  By  a  statute,  1551,  c.  26,  this  crime  was  punished  by  loss 
of  movables  ;  but  afterwards  by  an  act  in  1563,  cap.  74,  it  was  rendered 
capital ;  and  during  the  seventeenth  century  in  particular,  several  persons 
were  actually  executed  for  adultery.  See  the  Edinburgh  Encyclopfedia, 
ed.  by  Sir  I).  Brewster,  1830,  art.  Adultery,  where  an  account  will  be 
found  of  punishments  for  adultery,  which  were  in  many  countries  very 
severe.  At  Harlem,  in  Holland,  is  shown  a  kind  of  barrel  open  at  either 
end,  in  which  oflfendersagainst  public  morals  were  drawn  through  the  town. 
In  England  "  carting  "  was  a  punishment  meted  out  to  brothel-keepers. 
For  instance,  on  Nov.  23rd,  1575,  Elizabeth  Hollande  was  sentenced  to 
"  be  put  into  a  carte  at  Newgate  and  be  carted  with  a  paper  on  her  hed 
shewinge  her  offence  from  thence  to  Smythfeilde,  from  thence  to  her 
howse,  from  thence  to  Cornehill,  fi'om  thence  to  the  Standerd  in  Cheepe, 
from  thence  to  Bridewell,  and  all  the  way  basons  to  be  runge  before  her, 
at  Bridewell  to  be  punished,  and  from  thence  to  be  brought  to  Newgate, 
there  to  remaine  untill  she  have  payed  a  fine  of  xl.  li  and  put  in  sewerties 
for  the  same,  and  to  be  bounde  for  her  good  behaviour."  On  the  first 
of  January  following  Prudence  Crispe  was  sentenced  "  to  be  had  to 
Newgate  and  ther  to  be  put  into  a  carte,  from  thence  to  be  carted  to 
Smithefeilde,  from  thence  to  her  howse,  from  thence  to  Cornehill,  and 
Irom  thence  to  the  Standard  in  Cheepe,  so  to  Bridewell,  then  to  be 
whipped,  then  to  Newgate,  and  fined  at  xl.  li.  and  to  be  bound  to  her 
goode  behaviour."  (Middlesex  Sessions  Rolls.  Published  by  the  Middle- 
sex County  Kecords  Society,  vol.  i.  pp.  234,  235.) 

^  Surnamed  Ambrose,  and  not  to  be  confounded  with  a  Merlin  whose 
epoch  is  about  a  century  later,  and  who  is  surnamed  Wyllt  (Silvester) 
and  Calidonius  (or  perhaps  more  accurately  Celidonius  from  the  wood 
Kelidon  or  Celydon  in  Lincolnshire,  or,  according  to  Stuart  Glennie 
(Arthurian  Localities,  p.  Ixxv*)  part  of  the  Ettrick  forest  in  the  Scottish 
border  to  which  he  retired  stricken  by  insanity).  Both  Merlins  are, 
however,  frequently  confounded  with  each  other.  See  Graesse,  Sagen- 
kreise,  p.  197,  etc. ;  also  San  Marte  Arthursage,  p.  87,  etc. ;  and  Ville- 
marque,  Contes  Populaires  des  Anciens  Bretons,  i.  42,  etc. — Lieb. 


CH.  III.]  MERLIN.  149 

his  unearthly  orij^iu,  of  which  his  premature  elocution 
afforded  an  early  and  unequivocal  symptom.  Immediately 
after  his  baptism,  the  mother  took  the  child  in  her  arms, 
and  reproached  him  as  the  cause  of  the  melancholy  death 
she  was  about  to  suffer.  But  the  infant  smiling  to  her, 
replied.  Fear  not,  my  mother,  you  will  not  die  on  my 
account.  Accordingly  the  prosecution  being  resumed,  and 
Merlin,  the  corpus  delicti,  being  produced  in  court,  he 
addressed  the  judges,  and  revealed  the  illegitimacy  of  one 
of  their  number,  who  was  not  the  son  of  his  reputed 
father,  but  of  a  Prior ;  and  who  thus,  out  of  regard  to 
his  own  mother,  was  forced  to  prevent  the  condemnation  of 
Merlin's  [i.  f.  11]. 

At  this  time  there  reigned  in  Britain  a  king  called 
Constans,  who  had  three  sons,  Moines,  Pendi-agon,  and 
liter. ^  Moines,  soon  after  his  accession,  which  happened 
on  the  death  of  his  father,  was  vanquished  by  the  Saxons 
[i.  f.  13],  in  consequence  of  being  deserted  by  his  seneschal 
Yortiger,  formerly  the  chief  support  of  his  throne.  Grow- 
ing unpopular,  through  misfortune,  he  w^as  soon  after 
killed  by  his  subjects,  and  the  traitor  Vortiger  chosen  in 
his  place  [i.  f.  14]. 

As  this  newly-elected  monarch  was  in  constant  dread  of 
the  preferable  claims  of  liter  and  Pendragon,  the  sur- 
viving sons  of  Constans,  he  began  to  construct  a  strong 
tower  for  defence.  This  bidwark,  however,  three  times 
fell  to  the  ground  without  any  apparent  cause,  when 
brought  by  the  workmen  to  a  certain  height.  The  king 
consulted  seven  astronomers  on  this  phenomenon  in  archi- 
tecture. These  sages  having  studied  the  signs,  avowed  to 
each  other  that  they  could  not  solve  the  mystery.  But  in 
the  course  of  their  observations  they  had  incidentally  dis- 
covered that  their  lives  were  threatened  by  a  child,  who 
had  lately  come  into  the  world  without  the  intervention  of 
a  mortal  father.  Tliey  therefore  resolved  to  deceive  the 
king,  in  order  to  secure  their  own  safety ;  ^  and  announced 
to  him,  as  the  result  of  their  calculations,  that  the  edifice 

'  In  Geoffrey  of  ^loniiiouth,  Ilistoria  Britonum  (vi.  7),  Constans 
has  two  infant  brothers,  Uther  Tendragon  and  Aurelius  Arabrosius. 
Their  father  was  Constantine.  ^  Cf.  Matth.  ii. 


150  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

would  abide  by  the  ordinary  rules  of  architecture  if  the 
blood  of  a  child  of  this  genealogy  were  shed  on  the  first 
stone  of  the  foundation.^ 

Though  the  king  could  not  doubt  the  efficacy  of  this  ex- 
pedient, his  plans  were  not  much  promoted  by  the  response, 
for  the  difficulty  was  to  find  a  child  of  this  anomalous 
lineage.  That  nothing,  however,  might  be  wanting  on  his 
part,  he  despatched  messengers  over  all  the  kingdom  [i.  f. 
17].  Two  of  his  emissaries  fell  in  with  certain  children 
who  were  playing  at  cricket.^  Merlin  was  of  the  party,  and, 
having  divined  the  cause  of  their  search,  instantly  made 
himself  known  to  them.  When  brought  before  the  king, 
he  informed  his  majesty  of  the  imjDOsition  of  the  astro- 
logers, and  showed  that  the  instability  of  the  tower  was 
occasioned  by  two  immense  dragons  which  had  fixed  their 
residence  under  it,  and,  being  rivals,  shook  its  foundation 
with  their  mighty  combats  [i.  f.  22].  The  king  invited 
all  his  barons  to  an  ensuing  contest  announced  by  Merlin. 
Workmen  having  dug  to  an  immense  depth  below  the 
tower,  discovered  the  den  of  these  monsters,  who  gratified 
the  court  with  the  exhibition  that  was  expected.  The  red 
dragon  was  totally  defeated  by  his  white  oj^ponent,  and 
only  survived  for  three  days  the  effects  of  this  terrible 
encounter. 

These  animals,  however,  had  not  been  solely  created  for 
the  amusement  of  the  court,  for,  as  Merlin  afterwards  ex- 
plained [i.  f.  25],  they  typified  in  the  most  unequivocal 
manner  the  invasion  of  liter  and  Pendragon,^  the  surviving 
brothers  of  Moines.  These  two  princes  had  escaped  into 
Britany  on  the  usurpation  of  Yortiger,  but  now  made  a 
descent  upon  England.  Yortiger  was  defeated  in  a  great 
battle,  and  afterwards  burned  alive  in  the  castle  he  had 
taken  such  pains  to  construct  [i.  f.  31]. 

On  the  death  of  Yortiger,  Pendragon  ascended  the  throne. 
This  prince  had  great  confidence  in  the  wisdom  of  Merlin, 
who  became  his  chief  adviser,  and  frequently  entertained 
the  king,  while  he  astonished  his  brother  liter,  who  was 

^  See  supp.  note.  Merlin  ;  see  infra,  i.  pp.  156,  157. 
^  "Ilz  virenten  ung  chap  iing  tropeau  de  garcons  qui  sesbatoyent  & 
iouoyent  a  la  crosse." 
3  See  note,  p.  12G. 


CH.  III.]  MERLIN.  151 

not  aware  of  liis  qualifications,  by  his  skill  in  necromancy 
[i.f.34]. 

About  this  time  a  dreadful  war  arose  between  the  Saxons 
and  Britons.  Merlin  obliged  the  royal  brothers  to  swear 
fidelity  to  each  other,  but  foretold  that  one  of  the  two  must 
fall  in  the  first  battle  [i.  f.  36].  The  Saxons  were  totally 
routed  in  the  fight,  and  Pendragon,  having  fulfilled  the 
prediction  of  Merlin,  was  succeeded  by  Titer,  who  now  as- 
sumed, in  addition  to  his  own  name,  the  appellation  of 
Pendragon  [i.  f.  38]. 

Merlin  still  continued  a  court  favourite.  At  the  request 
of  Titer  he  transported  by  magic  art  enormous  stones  from 
Ireland  to  form  the  sepulchre  of  Pendragon ;  and  next 
proceeded  to  Carduel,  (Carlisle,)  to  prepare  the  Round 
Table,'  at  which  he  seated  fifty  or  sixty  of  the  first  nobles 
in  the  countrv,  leaving  an  empty  place  for  the  Sangreal 
[i.  f.  40,  etc.].* 

^  The  prototype  of  this  table  was  that  which  Joseph  of  Arimathia  at 
Christ's  command  established,  and  which  in  its  turn  was  analogous  to 
the  one  at  which  Christ  had  sat  with  his  Apostles  at  the  Last  Supper. 
In  the  Metrical  San  Graal,  however,  a  square  table  is  mentioned, 

'•'  Ou  non  de  cele  table  quier,  (1.  2491 ) 
Uiie  autre,  et  fei  appareiller.'' 

Uter  Pendragon's  Round  Table  was  subsequently  revived.  With 
refei-ence  to  still  later  renewals  of  the  round  table  (namely,  by  Edward 
the  Confessor  in  1043,  see  Graesse  Sagenkrcise,  p.  149,  150,  where  fur- 
ther the  names  of  all  the  knights  are  given,  and  notices  of  round  tables  in 
other  countries),  see  Chenu,  Kecueil  des  Antiquitez  de  Bourges,  Paris, 
1621.     There  was  an  order  of  Knights  of  the  Pound  Table  at  Bourges. 

The  Pound  Table,  says  Schmidt  (Wiener  Jahrbuch.,  vol.  29,  p.  86), 
secures  the  personage  whose  duty  it  is  to  allot  the  places  from  the  embar- 
rassment arising  from  rival  claims  to  precedence  on  the  part  of  the  ban- 
queters, as  all  seats  are  equal.  This  was  accordingly  a  patent  reason 
which  might  suggest  to  princes  the  expedient  of  a  round  table  for  the 
Pares  Pegni.  The  custom  had  been  adopted  among  the  Gauls  for  this 
reason  ;  according  to  Posidonius  (see  supra,  p.  144,  note),  however,  the 
exact  opposite,  viz.,  that  the  sitters  took  their  places  in  accordance  with 
their  rank  and  distinction,  nor  does  he  make  any  allusion  whatever  to 
trials  of  skill  as  taking  place  after  the  banquets,  as  Villcmarque  (Contcs 
pop.  des  anc.  Bret.  i.  40)  erroneously  states. — Lieb. 

A  round  table  with  an  order  of  knights  thereto  pertaining  was  founded 
by  Theodoric,  king  of  the  East  Goths,  according  to  Aurclius  Cassio- 
dorus  [variar.  libri  xii.],  Wiener  Jahrb.,  Bd.  ix.  1^25,  p.  85.  In  the  Saga 
of  Dietrich,  the  Czar  C'artaus  is  also  made  to  institute  a  knightly  round 
table.    See  Graesse,  Bd.  ii.  Abth.  3.  p.  150. 


152  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Soon  after  this  institution  the  king  invited  all  his  barons 
to  the  celebration  of  a  great  festival,  which  he  proposed 
holding  annually  at  Carduel  [i.  f.  42]. 

As  the  knights  had  obtained  permission  from  his  majesty 
to  bring  their  ladies  along  with  them,  the  beautiful 
Ygueme  accompanied  her  husband,^  the  Duke  of  Tintadiel, 
to  one  of  these  anniversaries.  The  king  became  deeply 
enamoured  of  the  duchess,  and  revealed  his  passion  to 
Ulfinus  or  TJlfin,^  one  of  his  counsellors.  Yguerne  with- 
stood all  the  inducements  which  TJlfin  held  forth  to  pre- 
possess her  in  favour  of  his  master,  and  ultimately  dis- 
closed to  her  husband  the  attachment  and  solicitations  of 
the  monarch.  On  hearing  this,  the  duke  instantly  removed 
from  court  with  Yguerne,  and  without  taking  leave  of 
Titer.  The  king  complained  of  this  want  of  duty  to  his 
council,  who  decided  that  the  duke  should  be  summoned 
to  court,  and  if  refractory  should  be  treated  as  a  rebel. 
As  he  refused  to  obey  the  citation  [i.  f .  45],  the  king  carried 
war  into  the  estates  of  his  vassal,  and  besieged  him  in  the 
strong  castle  of  Tintadiel,^  in  which  he  had  shut  himself  up. 
Yguerne  was  confined  in  a  fortress  at  some  distance,  which 
was  still  more  secure.  During  the  siege,  Ulfin  informed 
his  master  that  he  had  been  accosted  by  an  old  man,  who 
promised  to  conduct  the  king  to  Yguerne,  and  had  offered 
to  meet  him  for  that  purpose  on  the  following  morning. 
Uter  proceeded  with  Ulfin  to  the  rendezvous.  In  an  old 
blind  man,  whom  they  found  at  the  appointed  place,  they 
recognized  the  enchanter  Merlin,  who  had  assumed  that 
appearance :  he  bestowed  on  the  king  the  form  of  the  Duke 
of  Tintadiel,  while  he  endowed  himself  and  Ulfin  vritli  the 
figures  of  his  grace's  two  squires.     Fortified  by  this  triple 

^  Gorlais  by  name.  In  a  mythological  poem  of  the  Welsh  bardTalies- 
sin  is  narrated  how  Uter  Pendragon  (Uter  Dragon-Head)  became  a  wolf, 
Welsh  gorlais,  to  beget  Arthur,  and  Gorlais  is  the  name  of  Yguerne's 
spouse,  and  thus  the  origin  of  this  Welsh  myth,  which  is  perhaps,  not 
as  Dunlop  supposes,  derived  from  the  story  of  Jupiter  and  Alcmena. 
(See  Villemarque,  Contes  pop.  des  a.  Bi'et.,  i.  18,  54.) 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  1. 

^  Some  vestiges  of  the  castle  of  Tintadiel,  or  Tintagel,  remain  on  a 
rocky  peninsula  of  prodigious  declivity  towards  the  sea,  on  the  northern 
coast  of  Cornwall.  [These  "  vestiges  ''  consisted  chiefly  of  work  of  the 
early  Norman  period,  though  a  small  amount  of  Roman  masonry  has 
been  found. — H.  Jenner.] 


CH.  III.]  MERLIN.  153 

metamorphosis,  tliev  proceeded  to  the  residence  of  Yguerne, 
who,  imconscioiis  of  the  deceit,  received  the  king  as  her 
hushand  [i.  f.  48]. 

This  deception  has  been  evidently  suggested  by  the 
classical  storv  of  Jupiter  and  Alcmena  [see  supp.  note].  The 
duke  corresponds  to  Amphytrion,  and  Merlin  to  the  Mer- 
cury of  mythology  ;  while  Arthur,  who,  as  we  shall  find, 
was  the  fruit  of  the  amour,  holds  the  same  rank  in  the 
romantic  as  Hercules  in  the  heroic  ages. 

The  fraud  of  Merlin  was  not  detected,  and  the  war  con- 
tinued to  be  prosecuted  by  liter  with  the  utmost  vigour. 
At  length  the  duke  was  killed  in  battle,  and  the  king,  by 
the  advice  of  Merlin,  espoused  Ygueme.  Soon  after  the 
marriage  she  gave  birth  to  Arthur,  whom  she  believed  to 
be  the  son  of  her  former  husband,  as  Uter  had  never  com- 
municated to  her  the  story  of  his  assumed  appearance 
[i.  f.  57]. 

After  the  death  of  Uter  [i.  f.  57],  there  was  an  interreg- 
num in  England,  as  it  was  not  known  that  Arthur  was  his 
son.  This  prince,  however,  was  at  length  chosen  king,  in 
consequence  of  having  unfixed,  from  a  miraculous  stone, ^ 
a  sword  which  two  hundred  and  one  of  the  most  valiant 

^  Et  quant  il  fut  jiisques  a  I'evangille  [of  the  Cbi'istmas  mass],  &  elle 
fut  chantee  aulcuns  de  scs  chevaliers  &  des  gens  qui  oyoient  sa  messe 
yssirent  bors  de  I'eglise.  Si  virent  que  il  fut  presque  lour  &  trouverent 
devant  le  portail  de  Teglise  une  place  ou  il  y  avoit  uug  perron  de  trois 
carreaux  mais  ilz  ne  sceurent  oncques  a  dire  de  quelle  pierre  ilz  estoyent 
furs  que  aucuns  disoient  que  cestoit  marbre,  et  sur  ce  perron  avoit  au 
meilleu  une  enclume  de  fer  bien  large  environ  de  demy  pied  de  hault. 
Et  dedans  ceste  enclume  avoit  une  espee  lichee  iusques  du  perron,  et 
quant  ceulx  de  Feglise  veirent  ce  si  eurent  grans  merveilles  de  veoir  ce 
perron  .  .  .  Larcevesque  brice  .  .  .  vint  ...  &  veit  Tespoe  au  parmy  toute 
debout  et  unes  Icttres  escriptes  dor  sur  I'espee  (jui  disoient  ainsi  cestui 
qui  tira  Tespee  hurs  de  son  lieu  fcra  roy  de  ceste  terre  ])ar  Tadmunition 
de  ihesiis."     (Fol.  Iviii,  vol.  i.  of  the  Merlin.  Paris,  1528) 

Theseus,  the  Athenian  hero,  had  to  take  from  beneath  a  stone  the  sword 
placed  tliereunder  by  his  lather.  In  northern  mythology  Odin  drives 
his  sword  up  to  its  hilt  in  an  oak.  Sigmund  draws  it  out.  Ordeals 
were  abolislu'd  by  the  Fourth  Council  of  Lateran,  1215.  The  account  of 
the  sword  in  Lancelot  is  somewhat  different.  It  was  called  Excalibur, 
more  pi'operly  Escalibur,  the  Ct-ltic  languages  not  admitting  the  x  sound, 
a  conjectural  etymology  compounds  the  name  of  the  Celtic  words  t^gaile, 
bright,  Haming,  or  sgal,  a  champion,  and />or,  noble.  Caliburn,  as  the 
sword  is  sometimes  called,  lias  been  derived  irom  call,  and  cailleachd, 
noble,  and  buircan,  a  loud  sound. 


154  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

barons  in  the  realm  had  been  singly  unable  to  extract 
[i.  f.  58].  At  the  beginning  of  his  reign,  Arthur  was  en- 
gaged in  a  civil  war,  as  the  mode  of  his  election,  however 
judicious,  was  disapproved  by  some  of  the  barons ;  and 
when  he  had  at  length  overcome  his  domestic  enemies,  he 
had  long  wars  to  sustain  against  the  Gauls  and  Saxons 
[i.  f.  79,  82,  etc]. 

In  all  these  contests  the  art  of  Merlin  was  of  great  ser- 
vice to  Arthur,  as  he  changed  himself  into  a  dwarf,  a  harp 
player,  or  a  stag,  as  the  interest  of  his  master  required ;  or, 
at  least,  threw  on  the  bystanders  a  spell  to  fascinate  their 
eyes,  and  cause  them  to  see  the  thing  that  was  not.  The 
notion  of  these  transformations  seems  to  have  been  sug- 
gested by  the  power  ascribed  in  classical  times  to  Proteus 
and  Vertumnus, 

Nunc  equa,  nunc  ales,  modo  bos,  modo  cervus  abibat. 

On  one  occasion  Merlin  made  an  expedition  to  Rome, 
entered  the  king's  palace  in  the  shape  of  an  enormous  stag, 
and  in  this  character  delivered  a  formal  harangue,  to  the 
utter  amazement  of  one  called  Julius  Caesar,  not  the  Julius 
whom  the  knight  Mars  killed  in  his  pavilion,  but  him 
whom  Gauvain  slew  because  he  had  defied  king  Arthur 
[ii.  f.  19]. 

At  length  this  renowned  magician  disappeared  entirely 
from  England.  His  voice  alone  was  heard  in  a  forest, 
where  he  was  enclosed  in  a  bush  of  hawthorn  ;  he  had  been 
entrapped  in  this  awkward  residence  by  means  of  a  charm 
he  had  communicated  to  his  mistress  Yivlian  or  Viviane,^ 
who,  not  believing  in  the  spell,  had  tried  it  on  her  lover. 
The  lady  was  sorry  for  the  accident,  but  there  was  no  ex- 
tracting her  admirer  from  his  thorny  coverture. 

The  earliest  edition  of  this  romance  was  printed  at  Paris, 
in  three  volumes  folio,  1498  ;  this  imjDression,  which  has 
become  extremely  rare,  was  followed  by  another  in  quarto 
(1528),  which  is  much  less  esteemed  than  the  other,  but  is 
also  exceedingly  scarce. 

Though  seldom  to  be  met  with,  the  Roman  de  Merlin  is 
one  of  the  most  curious  romances  of  the  class  to  which  it 

'  See  note  on  Vivian  in  J.  S.  Stuart  Glennie's  "  Arthurian  Locali- 
ties,"' p.  Ixxiii*. 


CH.  III.]  MERLIN.  165 

belongs/  It  comprehends  all  the  events  connected  with 
the  life  of  the  enchanter  from  his  supernatural  birth  to  his 
magical  disappearance,  and  embraces  a  longer  period  of 
interesting  fabulous  history,  than  most  of  the  works  of 
chivalry.  Some  of  the  incidents  are  entertaining,  and  no 
part  of  the  narrative  is  complicated.  Yguerne,  though  she 
appears  but  for  a  short  while,  is  a  more  interesting  female 
character  than  is  usually  portrayed  in  romances  of  chivalry. 
The  passion  of  Titer  for  this  lady,  which  is  well  described, 
is  by  much  the  most  interesting  part  of  the  work  ;  and 
though  the  marvellous  pervades  the  whole  production,  it  is 
not  carried  to  such  an  extravagant  length  as  in  the  tales 
of  the  Round  Table,  by  which  it  was  succeeded.  The 
language,  which  is  very  old  French,  is  remarkable  for  its 
beauty  and  simplicity  :  Indeed,  the  romance  bears  every- 
where the  marks  of  very  high  antiquity.  It  has  been 
generally  attributed  to  Robert  de  Borron,  to  whom  so 
many  other  works  of  the  same  nature  have  been  assigned. 
The  author  lived  in  the  time  of  Henry  III.  and  Edward  I., 
as  Rusticien  de  Pise,  who  lived  during  these  reigns,  calls 
him,  in  his  prologue  to  Meliadus,  his  companion  in  arms. 

But,  great  as  the  antiquity  of  the  romance  no  doubt  is, 
its  author  can  lay  but  little  claim  to  originality  of  invention. 
Most  of  the  incidents  appear  in  the  chronicle  of  Geoffrey 
of  Monmouth,  from  which  they  were  transferred  into  the 
romance  through  the  medium  of  the  Brut,  a  metrical 
version  of  that  fabulous  history,  written  by  Wace.  (See 
supra,  pp.  140,  143.) 

The  notion  of  procreating  demons,  which  forms  the 
basis  of  the  romance,  and  accounts  for  Merlin's  super- 
natural powers,  seems  to  have  been  taken  from  the  Vita 
Merlini,  the  Life  of  the  Scotch "  Merlin,  by  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth : 

Et  sibi  miiltotiens  ex  aere  corpore  sumpto 
Nobis  apparent,  et  plurima  saej)e  sequuntur  ; 
Quin  etiam  coitu  mulieres  airgrediuntur, 
Et  faeiunt  gravidas,  generantes  more  profano. 

It  would  appear  from  Joceliii's  Life  of  St.  Kentigern,  the 

'  It  has  been  published  for  the  Early  English  Text  Society. 
^  Or  rather  Caljdonian.     (See  note  2,  p.  148.) 


156  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

accoTint  of  whose  birth  resembles  that  of  Merlin/  that  our 
grandmothers  were  frequently  subject  to  nocturnal  attacks 
of  the  nature  described  in  the  romance  ;  "  audivimus  fre- 
quenter sumptis  transfigiis  puellarem  pudicitiam  expug- 
natam  esse,  ipsamque  defloratam  corruptorem  sui  minime 
nosse.  Portuit  aliquid  hujusmodi  huic  puellse  accidisse."  ^ 
Yet,  perhaps,  the  account  of  the  birth  and  early  part  of 
the  life  of  Merlin  may  be  traced  to  a  yet  more  ancient  and 
venerable  source.^ 

At  an  early  period  the  story  of  Merlin  became  current 
and  popular  in  most  of  the  countries  in  Europe.  The 
French  romance,  of  which  we  have  given  an  abstract,  was 
translated  into  Italian  by  Antonio  Tedeschi,  a  Venetian, 
and  was  written  by  him  while  in  the  prison  of  Florence, 
where  he  was  confined  for  debt.  The  history  of  Merlin 
appeared  also  in  English,  in  a  metrical  form,^  in  which  the 
incidents  are  nearly  the  same  with  those  in  the  French 
romance.  [Ellis,  Specimens  of  Early  Metrical  E-omances, 
i.  205,  where  a  summary  will  be  found,  p.  75]. 

Merlin  is  frequently  introduced  in  the  subsequent  tales 
of  chivalry,  but  chiefly  on  great  occasions,  and  at  a  period 
subsequent  to  his  death,  or  magical  disaj^pearance.  He 
has  also  found  his  way  into  the  English  metrical  version 
of  the  Seven  Wise  Masters.  [It  is  called  "  the  Proces  of 
the  Sevyn  Sages,"  see  Weber,  English  Metrical  Eomances, 
vol.  iii.  iJ.  91 ;  and  Ellis,  Specimens,  vol.  iii.]     Herowdes, 

'  See  Merlin  and  Kentigern,  Blackwood's  Magazine,  December,  1885. 

2  Pinkcrton's  "  Vitae  Antiqua?,'"  Lond.  1789,  p.  200,  ap.  Ellis's  "  Spe- 
cimens," p.  211,  vol.  i.  A  curions  tradition  of  this  sort  is  i*elated  in 
Boethius' ''  Historia  Scotorum,"  Paris,  1574,  1,  viii.  149.  See,  infra,  note 
to  Huon  of  Bordeaux. 

^  Tobit,  iii.  8,  etc.,  and  vi.  13,  14,  etc.  Upon  this  subject  see  also 
Dobeneck,  Des  Deutschen  Mittelalters  Volksglauben,  i.  28,  etc.  ;  Boais- 
tuau,  Histoires  pi-odigieuses,  ch.  vii. ;  Caes.  Heisterbach,  Mirac.  et 
Hist.,  iii.  6,  7,  8,  9;  Wolf,  Niederland.  Sagen,  No.  105;  Scheible 
Kloster,  v.  197,  etc. ;  the  Story  of  the  Prankish  King  Clodio,  Grimm, 
Teutonic  Mythology,  p.  391  (364  of  Ger.  ed.  1843,  Gottingen)  ;  Kaspar 
vonder  Ron's  "Heldenbuch,  the  Story  of  the  Meerwunder;"  also  Dietrich 
of  Bern's  Descent ;  W.  Grimm,  Deutsche  Helden  Sage,  p.  294,  No.  9.  See 
also,  infra,  note,      on  the  storj^  of  Count  Baldwin  of  Planders. — Lteb. 

■*  Leland  (Commentarii  de  Scriptoribus  Britannicis,  A.  Hall's  edition, 
i.  p.  191)  puts  this  poem  among  the  works  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth. 
Mr.  Ward,  who  discusses  its  authorship  at  some  length,  is  favourable  to 
this  ascription.     See  Ward's  Cat.  i.  pp.  279-286. 


CH.  III.]  MERLIN.  157 

emperor  of  R<^>nie,  had  seven  sages  iu  his  council,  who 
abused  the  confidence  reposed  in  them  by  their  master. 
This  emperor,  while  one  day  preparing  to  go  on  a  hunting 
party,  is  suddenly  struck  blind  ; — the  wise  men  are  con- 
voked, and  ordered  to  account  for  his  majesty's  obstructed 
vision.  They  are  forced  to  confess  that  they  are  unpre- 
pared with  an  answer,  but  are  afterwards  advised  by  an 
old  man  to  consult  the  invisible  Merlin.  Two  of  their 
number  are  sent  on  this  errand,  who  find  out  the  enchanter 
with  great  difficulty,  and  bring  him  to  the  king.  Merlin 
is  prepared  with  a  prescription,  and  informs  his  majesty 
that  nothing  more  is  necessary  to  obtain  complete  restora- 
tion to  sight,  than  striking  oft'  the  heads  of  his  seven  sages. 
Herowdes,  delighted  to  find  that  his  cure  could  be  so 
cheaply  purchased,  caused  his  counsellors  to  be  successively 
beheaded,  and  the  recovery  of  his  sight  coincided  with  the 
decapitation  of  his  last  minister. 

Nor  have  the  fables  connected  with  Merlin  been  confined 
to  idle  tales  or  romances  of  chivalry,  but  have  contributed 
to  the  embellishment  of  the  finest  productions.  In  the 
romantic  poems  of  Italy,  and  in  Spenser,  Merlin  is  chiefly 
represented  as  a  magical  artist.     The  fountain  of  love  ^  in 

^  It  is  rather  the  fountain  of  oblivion  : — 

"  This  Fountaine  more  then  wondrous  for  delight, 

AVas  carvde  with  Alabaster  passino^  fine, 
Set  out  with  gold,  adorning  it  so  bright. 

As  all  the  Meadow  sun-like  made  to  shine  : 
Merlin  it  built,  (a  famous  conjuring  Wight) 
Because  worthie  Sir  Tristram  at  that  time 

Drinking  thereof,  should  leave  that  lovely  Queene, 
Who  was  in  th'end  his  utter  mine  seen." — St.  34. 
— Bcjardo's  "  Orlando  Innamorato,"  the  three  first  Books  .  .  .  trans- 
lated by  K.  T[oft].     Lond.,  1598. 

In  antiquity,  a  similar  power  was  attributed  to  the  River  Selemnos, 
Pausan.  vii.  123,  2. — Lieu. 

*'  This  Spring  was  one  of  those  four  fountains  rare, 
Of  those  in  France  produced  by  Merlin's  sleight; 
Encompassed  round  about  with  marble  fair. 

Shining  and  polished,  and  than  milk  more  white. 
There  in  the  stone's  choice  figures  chisseled  were, 

By  that  magician's  god-like  labour  dight ; 
Some  voice  was  was  wanting,  these  you  might  have  thought 
Were  living  and  with  nerve  and  spirit  fraught." 
— Ariosto,  Orlando  Furioso,  canto  xxvi.,  st.  30,  Rose's  translation. 


158  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

the  Orlando  Innamorato  [1.  3.],  is  said  to  have  been  the 
work  of  Merlin  ;  and  in  the  26th  canto  of  the  Orlando 
Furioso,  there  is  described  a  fountain,  one  of  four  which 
the  enchanter  formed  in  France.  It  was  of  the  purest 
marble,  on  which  coming  events  were  portrayed  in  the 
finest  sculpture.  In  the  same  poem,  Bradamante  arrives 
one  night  at  the  lodge  of  Tristan  (Eocca  di  Tristano), 
where  she  is  conducted  into  a  hall  adorned  with  prophetic 
paintings,  which  demons  had  executed  in  a  single  night 
under  the  direction  of  Merlin. 

In  the  third  canto  of  the  Rinaldo,  the  knight  of  that 
name  arrives  with  Isolero  at  two  equestrian  statues  ;  the 
one  of  Lancelot,  the  other  of  Tristan,  both  sculptured  by 
the  art  of  Merlin.  Sj^enser  represents  Merlin  as  the 
artificer  of  the  impenetrable  shield,  and  other  armour  of 
Prince  Arthur  [Faery  Queene,  b.  i.  c.  7.  st.  33-36],  and  of 
a  mirror  in  which  a  damsel  viewed  her  lover's  shade.  But 
Merlin  had  nearly  obtained  still  higher  distinction,  and  was 
on  the  verge  of  being  raised  to  the  summit  of  fabulous 
renown.  The  greatest  of  our  poets,  it  is  well  known, 
before  fixing  on  a  theme  more  worthy  of  his  genius,  in- 
tended to  make  the  fabulous  history  of  Britain  the  subject 
of  an  epic  poem,  as  he  himself  announces  in  his  Epitaphium 
Damonis  [v.  162,  etc.]  : — 

Ipse  ego  Dardanias  Kutupina  per  aequora  piippes 
Dicam,  et  Paudrasidos  regnum  vetus  Inogeniae, 
Brennumque  Arviragumque  duces,  priscumque  Belinum, 
Et  tandem  Armoricos  Britonum  sub  lege  colonos  j 
Turn  gravidam  Arturo  fatali  fraude  Ibgernen, 
Mendaces  vultus  assumptaque  Gorlois  arma 
Merlini  dolus. ^ 

It  has  been  mentioned,  in  the  abstract  just  given  of  the 
romance  of  Merlin,  that  when  the  magician,  who  is  the 
chief  character  in  the  work,  prepared  the  round  table  at 
Carduel,  he  left  a  place  vacant  for  the  St.  Graal,  or  Holy 
Vessel  brought  to  Britain  by  Joseph  of  Arimathea.  Its 
quest  is  the  most  fertile  source  of  adventures  to  the  knights 
of  the  Eound  Table. 

Derived "  from  the  most  varied  sources  reflecting  most 

1  Cf.  Milton's  "  Mansus,"  v.  80. 

2  From  this  point  to  the  Perceval,  p.  172  is  by  the  present  Editor. 


CH.  III.]  MERLIN.  159 

opposite  charcicteristics,  modified  to  suit  their  contempora- 
ries by  successive  copyists,  and  loosely  linked  on  one  to 
another,  the  Romances  of  the  Round  Table,  or  Arthurian 
Cycle,  present  rather  a  motley  patchwork  than  a  sequential 
combination.  That  they  embody  elements  of  vitality  is 
best  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  they  afforded  a  fruitful  theme 
for  the  most  renowned  productions  of  those  dialects  of 
Europe  which  were  then  crystallizing  into  the  chief  lan- 
guages of  the  West ;  that  they  powerfully  aided  the  sur- 
vival of  the  dialects  reserved  for  this  destiny  ;  and,  that  in 
our  own  day,  as  in  the  past,  they  supply  subjects  for  some 
of  the  greatest  pens  in  literature. 

They  comprise  not  only  elements,  but  tendencies  the 
most  diverse,  and  the  conjunction  must,  at  least  viewed  from 
the  standpoint  of  modem  criticism,  I  think,  on  the  whole, 
be  admitted  to  be  crude,  violent,  and  incongruous.  We 
find  too  often  unintelligibly  and  unsatisfactorily  associated 
with  the  incidents  of  the  story  cloudy  reminiscences  of  a 
Celtic  heroic  age  and  mythology,  vague  echoes  of  Celtic 
struggles  with  other  Aryan  peoples  that  in  G-reat  Britain 
and  Little  Britain  alike  were  ever  pressing  the  Kymri 
westwards  from  their  lands.  These  again  are  mingled 
with  episodes  of  knightly  daring  and  generous  dealing, 
while  a  lax  morality — the  reflex,  perhaps,  of  pagan  liberty 
or  troubadour  licence — alternates  with  strivings  after  high 
Christian  ideals. 

To  all  this  is  superadded  an  element  not  only  Christian, 
but  mystical  and  ascetical,  of  clearly  ecclesiastical  origin ; 
it  is  made  to  seiwe  indeed  in  some  sort  as  a  connecting 
thread  between  the  romances  of  the  Graal,  Merlin,  the 
Quest  of  the  Graal,  Lancelot  of  the  Lake,  and  Morte 
Arthur,  and  yet  appears  as  a  somewhat  alien  and  incon- 
gruous interpolation,  and  may  have  been  introduced  as 
an  antidote  to  the  immorality  prevailing  through  many 
2^arts  of  the  cycle.  This  mystical  element  is  embodied 
in  the 

Romance  of  the  Graal,^ 

which  is  usually  placed  at  the  head  of  the  group  of 
romances  above  specified,  su2)plying  the  place  of  an  intro- 

'  See  supp.  note,  and  appendix  No.  2. 


160  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

duct  ion  without  wliicli  tliej  are  incomplete.  Tlie  opening 
portion  of  the  Graal  legend  is  clearly  traceable  to  very- 
early  sources,  and  the  whole  story  has  been  indefinitely 
varied  by  Chrestien  de  Troyes,  Menessier,  Wolfram  von 
Eschenbach,  Albrecht  von  Scharfenberg,  Robert  de  Thorn- 
ton, Lonelich,  and  other  mediaeval  poets.  Tlie  oldest  literary 
composition,  however,  in  which  the  story  has  come  down 
to  us,  and  which  is  more  immediately  the  groundwork  of 
these  romances,  appears  to  be  the  Joseph  of  Arimathea  or 
Short  G-raal,  generally  ascribed  to  and  ostensibly  written  by 
Robert  de  Borron,^  a  trouvere  and  sort  of  secretary  attached 
to  Gautier  de  Montfaucon.  Of  this  work  in  a  metrical 
dress,  which  was  probably  Borron's  form  of  composition, 
one  MS."  of  the  late  thirteenth  century  alone  is  known. 
Several  MSS.  of  the  same  work  in  prose  are  extant,  and 
their  interconcordance  shows  them  to  contain  a  text  not 
widely  differing  from  the  original  production. 

It  should,  however,  be  stated  that  it  has  been  inferred 
from  allusions  in  Wolfram  von  Eschenbach's  "  Parzival,'* 
composed  early  in  the  thirteenth,  that  in  the  preceding 
century  a  French  trouvere,  Guyot,  was  the  first  to  compose 
on  the  subject  of  the  Graal  a  poem,  now  lost,  which  supi^lied 
the  basis  not  only  of  Wolfram's  "  Parzival,"  but  of  the 
Perceval-le-Gallois  left  unfinished  by  Chretien  de  Troyes, 
who  flourished  in  the  same  century,  as  well  as  of  Borron's 
and  all  subsequent  compositions  on  the  same  theme. 

Borron  winds  up  the  poem  by  saying  he  would  fain 
follow  up  the  adventures  of  Alain  and  Petrus,  two  of  the 
personages,  but  believes  no  one  could  do  so  without  know- 
ing the  Great  History  of  the  Graal,  which  at  the  time  of 
writing  had  never  been  reproduced  by  mortal  hand  [from 
the  divinely  written  volume  of  which  more  anon]. 

A  ce  tems  que  je  la  retreis, 
O  mon  Seigneur  Gautier  en  peis 
Qui  de  Montbelial  esteit, 
Uncques  retreite  este  n'aveit 
La  grant  estoire  dou  graal, 
Par  nul  home  qui  fut  mortal. 

^   See  Huclier,  Le  Saint-Graal,  tome  i.,  p.  368,  etc. 

2  Published  by  F.  Michel,  Bordeaux,  1841,  300  copies,  reprinted  at 
the  end  of  vol.  i.  of  Lonelich's  "  Seynt  Graal/'  by  the  Roxburghe  Club. 
1861. 


CH.  III.]  ROMANCE    OF    THE    GRAAL.  161 

And  further  announces  his  intention  of  collecting  or  com- 
Inning  the  remaining  histories,  if  he  can  get  access  to  the 
hook  containing  them,  and  since  puhlished  as  M.  Paulin 
Paris  interprets. 

Mais  je  fais  bicn  a  tons  savoir 
Qui  cest  livre  vourront  avoir 
Que  se  Dicu  me  donne  sant6 
Kt  vie,  bien  ai  volente 
De  ces  parties  assembler 
Se  en  livre  les  puis  trouver. 

The  verses,  however,  are  not  free  from  ambiguity,  from 
which  the  best  French  scholars  have  been  unable  to  clear 
them.     Borron  meanwhile  proceeds  to  the  Merlin. 

The  grant  estoire  dou  Graal  has  been  thought  to  refer  to 
the  longer  Graal,  not  to  be  confounded  with  the  quest  of  the 
Graal,  an  entirely  different  work,  ascribed  to  a  Welshman, 
Walter  Maj),  archdeacon  of  Oxford  towards  the  latter  part 
of  the  twelfth  century,  which  professes  in  the  prologue  to  be 
a  volume  written  by  Christ  himself,  and  given  to  a  hermit 
in  "Britain"  in  the  year  a.d.  717,  and  which,  together 
with  its  recipient,  underwent  many  preternatural  vicissi- 
tudes, including  a  trip  to  Norway  and  back. 

This  romance  may  be  regarded  as  a  recast  of  the  Shorter 
Graal  of  Borron,  composed,  however,  in  a  much  more 
imaginative  vein,  and  augmented  with  numerous  adven- 
tures, episodes,  and  spiritual  allegories,  wholly  wanting  in 
the  Shorter  Graal,  and,  indeed,  quite  foreign  to  its  bald 
and  meagre  character.  It  has  been  suggested  that  it 
was  produced  in  collaboration  by  Map  and  Borron,  who 
may  have  met  at  Fontainebleau,  near  which,  according  to 
M.  Hucher,  Borron's  estates  were  situate  during  a  mission 
on  which  Map  is  known  to  have  been  sent  to  Louis  le  Jeune. 

I  do  not,  however,  see  how  this  theory  can  be  reconciled 
with  the  lines  quoted  above,  unless  the  statement  which 
indeed  usually  appears  in  the  manuscripts  of  the  Greater 
Graal,  that  the  work  was  translated  by  Borron  from  a 
Latin  original,  be  taken  in  good  faith.  It  is  most  ques- 
tionable whether  it  should  be  so  taken,  and  I  think  the 
following  considerations  render  the  point  very  doubtful. 
The  Longer  Graal  was  probably  feigned  to  have  been  trans- 
lated from  Latin  simply  because  that  was  the  only  language 


162  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

in  which  it  would  plausibly  support  its  pretended  Divine 
origin.  This  purpose  would,  however,  be  as  well  served  by  a 
bare  assertion,  as  by  the  adhibition  of  a  Latin  text,  which 
accordingly  never  existed,  for  the  work  is  patently  intended 
for  perusal  in  knightly  circles  where  the  clerkly  tongue 
would  be  unintelligible.  It  is,  too,  altogether  unlikely  that 
Borron  knew  Latin — indeed,  I  think  his  writings  furnish 
indications  that  he  did  not.  Moreover,  the  Greater  Graal, 
though  ecclesiastical  inspiration  is  easily  discernible  in  it, 
is  unlike  works  written  in  Latin,  and  does  not  bear  the 
stamp  of  a  monastic  story,  with  the  exception  of  those 
parts  that  are  identic  in  substance  with  the  Shorter  Graal, 
which  probably  embodies  monkish  legends  based  on  apo- 
cryphal Scriptures. 

I  proceed  here  to  give  a  brief  abstract  of  the  Shorter 
Graal,  noting  by  the  way  some  of  the  differences  between 
it  and  the  Greater  Graal. 

Upon  hearing  of  Christ's  death,  the  "  Chevalier"  Joseph 
of  Arimathea,  the  subordinate  and  friend  of  Pilate,  obtains 
from  the  latter  the  body  of  the  Eedeemer.  As  the  Jews 
object  to  the  grant,  Pilate  orders  Nicodemus  to  support 
Joseph  with  his  authority.  To  the  latter  Pilate  gives  a 
dish  which  a  Jew  had  brought  to  him  from  the  house  of 
Simon  the  leper,  where  the  Saviour  had  used  it  for  the 
Last  Supper.^  In  this  "  vaissel "  Joseph,  while  preparing 
the  body  of  our  Lord  for  sepulture,  collects  the  gore  from 
the  sacred  wounds,  remembering  that  the  rock  at  the  foot 
of  the  cross  had  been  split  by  the  blood  of  Christ  which 
had  fallen  on  it.^ 

Subsequently  the  Jews,  fearing  the  popular  effect  of  the 
resurrection,  plot  secretly  to  kill  Joseph  and  Nicodemus,  so 
that,  should  the  Emperor  Titus  require  them  to  produce 
Christ's,  body,  they  might  say  that  it  had  been  given  to 
Joseph  and  Nicodemus,  and  that  these  had  since  disap- 
peared.    Nicodemus  escapes,  but  Joseph  is,  by  order  of 

1  In  the  Greater  Graal  it  is  Joseph  liimself  who  takes  the  dish  from 
the  house  where  the  Last  Supper  had  been  celebrated. 

2  This  is  an  old  tradition  frequently  mentioned  in  ancient  accounts  of 
the  Holy  Places.  It  was  a  pious  allegorical  idea,  rather  than  a  belief, 
that  the  Cross  had  been  erected  over  the  tomb  of  the  first  man,  and  that 
the  blood  of  the  Second  Adam  had  fallen  upon  the  skull  of  the  tirst 
Adam,  when  redemption  of  his  progeny  was  consummated. 


CH.   III.]  ROMANCE    OF    THE    GRAAL.  163 

Caiaphas,  immured  in  a  tower  without  light  or  food,  where 
the  Saviour,  in  a  great  brightness,  appears  to  him/  comforts 
him,  and  restores  to  him  the  Vessel,  instructs  him  to  whom 
he  is  to  transmit  it,  and  teaches  him  the  "  secrets  which 
are  said  in  the  great  sacrament  which  is  made  on  the  Graal, 
that  is  to  say,  on  the  chalice."  The  vessel  is  to  supply 
Joseph  sole  and  sufficient  sup2)ort  and  heavenly  refection 
during  his  captivity,  wliich  terminates  in  the  following  way. 

The  Emperor  Titus  in  Rome  comes  to  hear  of  Christ's 
life  and  miracles  from  a  "  chevalier  "  who  has  just  returned 
from  a  '*  pilgrimage,"  and  who  had  seen  the  cures  wrought 
by  Him.  Titus  hereupon  despatches  a  commission"^  to 
Judaea  to  inquire  into  Pilate's  conduct,  and  the  truth  of 
the  story,  and  also  to  bring  back  some  article  which  had 
belonged  to  Christ,  which  as  this  knight  assured  him  would 
have  virtue  to  heal  the  emperor's  son  Vespasian  from  the 
lej^rosy  with  which  he  is  afflicted,  the  pilgrim  knight  being 
meanwhile  confined  as  a  hostage  for  the  truth  of  his  story.^ 

Pilate  clears  himself  before  the  commissioners,  who  bring 
back  with  them  to  Rome  an  old  woman,  Verrine,  who  had 
preserved  the  tow^el  with  which  she  had  wiped  Christ's  face. 
Vespasian  is  healed  by  looking  upon  this  towel,  and  he 
and  Titus  proceed  in  force  to  Judaea,  where  they  institute 
inquiries,  and  arrest  numerous  Jews,  who,  as  they  cannot 
produce  Christ's  body,  are  burned.  One  Jew,  however,  on 
condition  of  being  spared,  conducts  Vespasian  to  Joseph's 
dungeon.  Vespasian  descends  into  it  and  is  prophetically 
recognized  1  »y  the  captive.     The  Jew  is  not  indeed  actually 

^  Gospel  of  Nicoderaus,  chaps,  ix.  and  xi. 

-  Viiuiieta  ISalvatoris,  whore  the  imprisonment  of  Joseph  is  also 
narrated. 

^  This  returned  pilgrim  is,  in  the  Greater  Graal,  called  a  '*  Knight  of 
Capernaum  ; "  instead  of  being  confined,  he  is  himself  commissioned  by 
Titus  to  Judiea,  where  he  instructs  Felix  (not  Pilate),  the  governor,  to 
issue  a  proclamation,  in  consequence  of  which  '*  Murie  la  venissienne  '' 
produces  the  veronica,  or  divinely-impressed  portrait.  It  is  this  woman 
who,  in  the  Greater  Graal,  denounces  the  abettors  of  the  crucifixion, 
and  it  is  Joseph's  wife  (Helyab)  who  begs  for  her  husband's  deliverance, 
while  Caiaphas  discloses  the  dungeon  where  Joseph  is  imprisoned,  on 
condition  of  having  his  life  spared.  Joseph,  to  whom  his  forty  two 
years"  captivity  have  seemed  but  as  one  day,  indicates  the  culprits  con- 
cerned in  the  crucifixion,  and  they  are  condemned  to  the  stake  ; 
Caiaphas  is  cast  adrift  in  a  boat. 


164  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

put  to  deatli,  but  is  with  liis  family  committed  to  the 
mercies  of  the  sea  in  an  open  boat. 

Thus  far  the  main  features  of  the  narrative  are  based 
upon  extant  apocryphal  writings  which  date  from  a  high 
antiquity.  Of  the  subsequent  portion  we  have  no  earher 
form.  It  is  in  the  Shorter  G-raal  almost  wholly  mystic  and 
spiritual,  but  in  the  Greater  G-raal  is  largely  expanded  by 
the  wars  and  knightly  deeds  of  prowess  of  a  number  of 
personages  unknown  to  the  shorter  romance. 

Joseph,  his  sister  Enysgeus  (Enigee),  and  her  husband 
Brons,^  Avith  a  number  of  their  kinsfolk  and  other  prose- 
lytes, now  receive  baptism  at  the  hands  of  St.  Clement, 
and  set  out  for  a  distant  country  where  they  settled.  Many 
natives  were  converted,  and  the  colony  prospered  a  while, 
then  everything  went  ill — famine  reduced  them  to  extre- 
mity— they  were  being  visited  for  a  great  sin,  "  et  cil 
pechiez  estoit  luxure  sanz  raison."  [He]brons  is  consulted, 
and  refers  to  Joseph,  who  prays  before  the  Holy  Vessel  for  en- 
lightenment, and  is  inspired  by  Heaven  with  a  test  whereby 
to  discover  the  sinner.  "Remember,"  he  is  told  in  a  vision, 
**  that  at  the  Last  Supper,  at  the  house  of  Simon,  I  said 
that  he  that  was  eating  and  drinking  with  Me  would  be- 
tray Me.  The  guilty  man  knew  these  words  applied  to 
him,  he  was  ashamed  and  drew  away,  and  his  j)lace  has 
never  been  filled,  but  shall  be,  at  another  table."  Joseph 
is  instructed  to  make  a  table,  and  to  direct  Brons — who  is  a 
wise  man  and  one  of  whom  many  a  wise  man  shall  be  de- 
scended— to  catch  a  fish.  This  fish  is  to  be  laid  next  the 
Graal  which  is  set  before  Joseph's  place  at  the  table.  When 
the  company  sit,  one  vacant  place  is  left  on  the  right  of 
Joseph  and  left  of  Brons,  and  this  represents  Judas' s 
place,  and  shall  only  be  filled  by  the  grandson  of  Brons 
and  Enygeus.  Joseph  tells  his  people  if  they  believe  in 
the  Trinity  and  the  Commandments,  to  sit  down  to  the 
Grace  of  God.     Some  sat,  others  refrained,  the  table,  ex- 

^  In  the  Greater  Graal  the  part  of  Brons  is  filled  by  "  Josephes," 
"  Josaphe,"  or  "  Josephe,"  Joseph's  son.  He  and  his  kinsfolk,  as  also 
Vespasian  with  his  company,  these  secretl}'-,  are  baptized  by  St.  Philip. 
St.  Clement  is  not  mentioned  in  the  metrical  Shorter  Graal,  in  which  the 
forms  Hebron,  Hebrons,  Hebrun,  as  well  as  Brons,  occur — both  circum- 
stances which  seem  in  favour  of  its  anteriority.     See  supp.  note. 


CH.  III.]  ROMANCE    OF    THE    GRAAL.  165 

cept  the  Judas  place,  being  full/  One  of  the  sitters,  Petrus, 
says  that  if  the  abstainers  do  not  feel  that  grace  and  bliss 
which  fills  those  who  are  seated  at  the  table,  it  is  because 
of  the  sin,  and  they  withdraw  in  shame.  Joseph  bids 
the  company  reassemble  daily  at  the  hour  of  Tierce^  to  the 
"  service  "  of  the  yessel. 

The  sinners  desiring  to  know  the  name  of  the  yessel,  are 
told  that  it  is  properly  called  Grraal  (or  G-real),  as  none  shall 
see  it  but  those  who  are  agreeable  to  it. 

Par  droit  Graal  I'apelera  ; 
Car  nus  le  Graal  ne  verra, 
Ce  croi-je,  qu'il  ne  li  agree. 

One  of  the  sinners,  Moses,  a  hypocrite  and  eyerything  else 
that  is  bad  besides,  begs  to  be  let  remain  ;  Joseph  says 
nothing  can  prevent  him  if  he  is  as  good  as  he  pretends  to 
be — he  endeayours  to  seat  himself  in  the  vacant  place  : 
but,  lo !  the  earth  opens  and  engulfs  him. 

Aleyn  is,  in  commemoration  of  the  fish,  henceforth 
known  as  the  Eich  Fisher.^    (Eiche  Pecheour.) 

^  It  seems  possible  not  only  that  some  of  the  marA'els  narrated  in  the 
Greater  Graal,  but  also  some  of  the  incidents  in  the  earlier  story  may 
have  been  imported  from  the  East  by  the  Crusaders.  Taken  in  connec- 
tion with  the  table  of  Brons,  the  following  passage  is  curious  : — "  Ee- 
member  when  the  Apostles  said  : — O  Jesus,  ISon  of  Mary,  is  Thy  Lord 
able  to  send  down  a  table  (md  ^idak,  a  table,  especially  one  covered  with 
victuals)  to  us  out  of  heaven  ?  He  said,  Fear  God,  if  ye  be  believers. 
Thej  said  :  AVe  desire  to  eat  therefrom,  and  to  have  our  hearts  assured; 
and  to  know  that  thou  hast  indeed  spoken  truth  to  us,  and  we  be 
witnesses  thereof.  Jesus  Son  of  Mary,  said  :  O  God,  our  Lord,  send 
down  a  table  to  us  out  of  heaven,  that  it  may  become  a  recurring  festival 
to  us,  to  the  first  of  us,  and  to  the  last  of  us,  and  a  sign  from  Thee  ;  and 
do  Thou  nourish  us,  for  Thou  art  the  best  of  nourishers.'' — Koran,  Surah 
V.  112-114.     See  also  Weil,  the  Bible,  the  Koran,  etc.,  p.  227,  etc. 

■^  The  office  of  Tierce  used  immediately  to  precede  the  celebration  of 
mass  in  conventual  establishments. 

^  M.  Paulin  Paris  suggests  that  an  allusion  to  the  Fisherman's  ring 
and  the  Papal  power  is  here  intended,  in  other  works  of  the  Graal  Cycle 
it  is  the  Koi  Pecheur.  The  Fisherman's  King  seems  to  be  mentioned 
about  1265,  as  applied  to  private  letters  of  the  Pope,  but  was  probably 
so  used  for  some  time  previously.  (See  Waterton  in  Archaeologia,  xi. 
p.  138,  1856.)  I  think  the  more  probable  allusion  is  to  the  Fish,  a  symbol 
of  Christ,  retained  from  the  early  Church  by  which  it  was  much  em- 
ployed in  the  times  of  persecution  on  account  of  the  hidden  meaning  of 
the  Greek  letters  which  compose  it,  I'x^vg,  the  initials  of  'Irjffovg  xP'^arbg 


166  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Josepli  is  divinely  informed  that  the  vacancy  represent- 
ing Judas' s  place  at  the  Last  Supper  shall  not  be  filled  up 
before  the  day  of  doom.  But  for  his  comfort  an  analogous 
place  at  another  (Merlin's  Round)  Table  shall  be  filled  by 
Bron's  grandson,  and  no  more  shall  be  heard  of  Moses 
until  he  is  found  in  the  abyss  by  that  future  occupant  of  the 
seat  [the  "  siege  perillous  "]  which  he  had  essayed  to  usurp. 

Of  the  twelve  sons  of  Brons,  Aleyn  elects  to  remain  celi- 
bate,^ and  to  him  his  married  brethren  are  to  be  subject  by 
direction  of  Joseph,  who  shows  him  the  G-raal  which  is 
eventually  to  pass  into  the  custody  of  Aleyn' s  son.  Petrus 
receives  a  letter  from  heaven,  and  sets  out  for  the  vales  of 
"  Avaron,"  where  he  will  remain  alive  till  Aleyn's  son 
come  and  read  that  letter  and  possess  the  Graal,  which 
meanwhile  is  confided  to  the  guardianship  of  Brons,  by 
Joseph,  who  teaches  him  the  secret  words  imparted  to 
himself  by  Christ  in  the  prison  of  Caiaphas.  He  is  to  go  to 
the  West,  where  he  will  await  the  coming  of  Aleyn's  son, 
who  is  to  receive  the  Holy  Vessel.  Joseph  himself  goes  to 
Britain,  Aleyn  also  and  his  brethren  start  for  foreign  lands. 

The  narrative  in  the  Greater  Graal  is  expanded  by  an 
almost  interminable  series  of  marvellous  feats,  adventures 
and  voyages,  temptations  on  the  rock  Perilous,^  transfor- 
mations of  fair  females  into  foul  fiends,  conversions  whole- 
sale and  individual,  allegorical  visions,  miracles  and  por- 
tents. Eastern  splendour  and  Northern  weirdness,  angelry 
and  devilry,  together  with  abundant  fighting  and  quite  a, 
phenomenal  amount  of  swooning,  which  seem  to  reflect  a 
strange  medley  of  Celtic,  pagan,  and  mythological  tradi- 
tions and  Christian  legends  and  mysticism,  alternate  in  a 
kaleidoscopic  maze  that  defies  the  symmetry  which  modern 
esthetic  canons  associate  with  every  artistic  production. 

A  large  portion  of  the  story  is  taken  up  with  the  wars, 
conversions,  dreams  of  Evilac  and  Seraphe,  eventually  bap- 
tized (ix.)  by  the  names  respectively  of  Nasciens  and  Mor- 
drains,  before  the  transfer  of  the  narrative  to  Britain,  which 
is  reached  by  Josephes  and  some  of  his  followers  upon  his 

'^  This  choice  is  narrated,  in  the  Greater  Graal,  before  the  fish  incident. 
^  See  also  below  in  Perceforest,  the  account  of  this  mission. 
^  It  is  apposite  to  note  that  the  Norman  Mont  St.  Michel  was  known 
to  mediseval  writers  as  Mons  Scti  Michaelis  de  Periculo  Maris. 


CH.  III.]  ROMANCE    OF    THE    GRAAL.  167 

shirt,  which  bears  them  over  the  waters,  while  the  rest 
follow  ill  a  ship  that  had  been  preserved,  and  had  been  one 
of  Solomon's  navy.  Once  in  Britain  the  adventures  extend 
to  Northumbria,  Scotland,  Ireland,  Wales,  and  probably 
embody  reminiscences  of  early  British  historical  events,  but 
the  geograi)hy  if  not  purely  imaginary  is  hopelessly  vague 
and  confused.  In  these  various  regions,  all  originally 
peopled  by  "  Saracens,"  we  are  presented  with  a  fresh  suc- 
cession of  wars,  sieges,  heaven-aided  conquests,  alliances, 
conversions,  and  prodigies.  Here  it  is  the  episodes  of  the 
fish,  and  the  attempts  of  Moses  to  sit  in  the  siege  perilous  are 
narrated,  and  here  we  find  Moses'  fate  is  differently  devised. 

Seven  flaming  hands  from  heaven  hurl  fire  upon  him  and 
carry  him  off  to  a  far  place  burning  like  a  dry  bush, 
where  he  is  found  towards  the  close  of  the  story.  The  in- 
cident of  the  fish  is  also  differently  narrated.  The  good- 
livers  go  to  service  and  are  fed  by  the  Holy  Graal.  The 
sinners,  on  the  contrary,  not  being  thus  fed,  beg  Josephes, 
Joseph's  son,  to  pray  for  them ;  and  he  orders  Bron's 
twelfth  son,  Aleyn  or  Alain  le  Gros,  to  take  the  net  from 
the  Graal  table,  and  fish  with  it.  He  catches  one  fish, 
which  the  sinners  say  will  not  suffice.  But  Aleyn  having 
prayed  satisfies  them  all  with  it,  and  is  thenceforward  called 
the  Rich  Fisher.  Joseph  dies,  and  his  body  is  buried  at 
"  Glay,"  while  his  son  transmits  the  Graal  to  Aleyn.  By 
Aleyn' s  instrumentaUty  the  leper  king  Galafres,  of  the  land 
of  Foreygne,  is  converted  and  christened  Alphasan.  He 
is  healed  by  looking  upon  the  Graal,  and  builds  Castle 
Corbenic,  which  is  to  be  the  repository  and  shrine  of  the 
Holy  Cup,  as  Vespasian  was  healed  by  looking  on  the 
Veronica. 

Much  is  said  about  the  genealogy  of  some  of  the  chief 
personages  towards  the  close.  "  Descendances  "  is  the  word 
used.  In  the  early  portion  Josephes  was  miraculously 
consecrated  a  bishop,  and  the  same  chrism  was  preserved 
by  an  angel,  and  with  it  all  the  Kings  of  Britain  till  Uther 
Pendragon,  Arthur's  father,  are  anointed. 

The  stronghold  of  Corbenic  answers  to  the  wood-girt 
fastness-shrine  of  Monsalvatsch  in  the  Parzival  of  Wolfram 

'  See  Stuart  Glennie,  Arthurian  Localities. 


168  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

von  Esdienbach  and  the  Titurel  of  Albrecht  von  Scharfen- 
burg,  whicb  are  German  poems  of  the  thirteenth  century 
upon  the  theme  of  the  G-raal. 

The  Castle  Corbenic  is  also  called  the  "  Palace  of  Ad- 
venture," for  the  reason  that  no  knight  but  one  might  sleep 
there,  without  incurring  the  speedy  penalty  of  death  for  his 
presumption.  Alphasan  is  so  punished  within  ten  days.  A 
Flaming  man  appears  to  him  and  stabs  him  in  both  thighs. 
There  are  several  similar  episodes  of  mystical  wounding  in 
the  thigh  by  spear-head  or  sword.  For  instance,  in  chap, 
xvi.,  an  angel  with  a  fiery  visage  appears  and  drives  a  lance 
(leaving  the  head  in  the  wound)  into  Joseph's  thigh,  for 
some  remissness,  and  (chap,  xvii.)  draws  out  the  lance  by 
putting  the  haft  into  it.^  With  the  blood  from  the  wound 
sight  is  restored  to  Nascienswho  had  been  struck  blind  for 
lifting  up  the  plateyne  which  covers  the  G-raal.  Joseph, 
moreover,  tells  him  that  when  the  lance  drips  blood  the 
secrets  of  the  Graal  shall  be  known,  and  predicts  that  the 
last  of  Nasciens'  line,  shall  be  the  only  man  who  shall  be 
thereafter  wounded  by  the  lance  and  who  shall  see  the 
wonders  of  the  Graal. 

The  earlier  incidents  in  the  story  are  derived  either 
directly,  or  more  probably  through  legends  no  longer 
known,  from  the  early  apocryphal  writings.  The  immure- 
ment of  Joseph  of  Arimathea  is  clearly  traceable  to  the 
Gosj)el  of  Nicodemus,  chap.  ix.  and  xi.,  and  the  expedition 
of  the  Emperor  and  the  Veronica  story  from  a  Greek 
apocryphal  work  known  as  Vindicta  Salvatoris.^ 

The  Graal  story  in  its  earlier  form  is  clearly  due  in  the 
main  to  ecclesiastical  legends.     The  Greater  Graal  far  sur- 

^  This  wounding  in  the  thigh  and  marvellous  cure  is  remarkable, 
possibly  an  idea  derived  from  Jacob's  withered  thigh  suggested  by  St. 
Augustine's  comment.  It  will  be  remembered  that  the  mortal  wound 
in6icted  by  the  spear  of  Achilles  in  the  thigh  of  Telephos  could  only  be 
cured  by  the  rust  of  the  weapon.  Cf.  also  the  legend  of  St.  Koch,  who, 
during  a  vision  received  a  wound  in  the  thigh,  and  was  afterwards  as 
miraculously  healed. 

^  Published  in  Evangelia  Apocrypha,  ed.  Tischendorf,  1853,  There 
were  Anglo-Saxon  versions  of  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus  in  tlie  eighth 
century  (see  Vuelcker,  Das  Ev.  Nicodemi  in  der  Abenlandischen  Lite- 
ratur.,  Paderborn,  1872),  but  no  ti-ace  of  it  in'Celtic  literature  is  found 
before  the  twelfth  century.  No  early  translation,  on  the  contrary,  is 
known  of  the  Vindicta,  but  an  Anglo-Saxon  version  of  the  Veronica 


CH.  III.]  ROMANCE    OF    THE    GRAAL.  169 

passes  it  in  imaginativeness  and  claims,  like  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  not  only  Divine  inspiration  but  celestial  penman- 
ship. Private  devotional  compositions  were  indeed  some- 
times commended  by  a  statement  that  they  had  been  given 
to  mortals  in  some  miraculous  way ;  but  the  application  of 
such  a  daring  figment  to  a  mere  romance  is  characteristic 
of  the  bold  treatment  of  the  legend  in  this  later  form.  In 
that  uncritical  age  of  ready  faith,  there  was  no  clear 
border-line  between  history  and  fiction  or  sjjiritual  marvels, 
and  here  this  audacious  assertion  of  a  supernatural  origin 
is,  according  to  M.  Paulin  Paris,  only  part  of  the  politico- 
literary  plot  which  evolved  the  story  of  the  G-raal  and  of  the 
decurion's  apostolate  in  Britain  for  the  purpose  of  giving 
weight  and  prestige  to  the  side  of  Henry  II.  in  his  struggle 
with  Rome,  and  developing  the  story  of  an  independent 
British  Church,  a  design  to  which  Henry's  trusted  personal 
friend  Map,  Archdeacon  of  Oxford,  lent  the  influential 
support  of  his  genial  and  brilliant  pen.  This  assumj^tion 
of  antiquity,  it  cannot  be  denied,  was  put  forward  at 
several  councils.^ 

Certain  it  is,  however,  that  neither  was  there  prior  to 
Henry  II. 's  time,  a  chapel  at  Glastonbury,  dedicated  to  St. 
Joseph  of  Arimathea,  nor  is  there  extant  any  trace  of  a 
tradition  or  a  cultus  of  the  pious  decurion's  apostolate  in 
this  island,  although  the  Gospel  of  Nicodemus  w^hich  sj^eaks 
of  him  at  length  was  known  and  translated  into  several 
dialects  of  Anglo-Saxon  in  the  eighth  century. 

legend  occurs  in  the  same  codex  as  the  above  Anglo-Saxon  Gospel  of 
Nicodemus,  preserved  in  the  Public  Library,  Cambridge.  (See  0.  W. 
Goodwin  on  Anglo-Saxon  Legends  of  St.  Andrew  and  St.  Veronica,  in 
the  publications  of  the  Cambridge  Antiquarian  Society.)  This  legend 
was  originalh',  as  Tischendorf  points  out,  derived  from  the  Vindicta, 
doubtless,  however,  through  a  Latin  version  of  great  antiquity.  A  "  Cura 
Sanitatis  Tiberii  Cesaris  August!  et  damnatio  Pilati,"  was  published  at 
Florence  in  1741.  Editions  of  *•  La  Vendetta  di  Cristo  "  were  pub- 
lished at  tlie  same  city  early  in  tlie  sixteenth  century,  and  probably 
before,  while  a  French  version  was  printed  at  Lyons  in  1517.  The 
name  Veronica  is  applied  by  mediaeval  writers  to  the  veil  impressed 
with  Christ's  face, as  if  equivalent  to  vera  icon.  It  may,  however,  per- 
haps be  a  corrupted  forai  from  Berenice,  daughter  of  King  Agrii)pa. 
with  whom  Titus,  Vespasian's  son,  has  a  liaison.  Vorberg  {V.  Pilatus  in 
Bibel  Geschichte  und  Sage,  1881,  8vo.). 

'  Montalembert,  Moines  de  rUccident,  t.  iii.  p.  26. 


170  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Eicher,  a  monk  of  Senones  in  the  Vosges,  in  his  Chronicon 
Senonense,  written  in  the  thirteenth  century,  relates  how 
Fortnnatus,  23atriarc'h  of  Graclo,  a  favourite  of  Charle- 
magne's, though,  it  must  be  noted,  a  man  of  no  exalted  cha- 
racter,^ obtained  for  a  lengthened  period  the  hospitality  of 
the  monks  of  Moienmontiers  (Medianum  Monasterium)  in 
the  Vosges,  and  left  them,  as  alleged,  the  body  ("  corpus  ") 
of  St.  Joseph  of  Arimathea,  which  he  had  brought  with  him 
from  the  East,  and  how  subsequently  these  relics  had  been 
stolen — translated — in  the  dead  of  night  by  foreign  monks 
at  some  date,  unspecified,  but  prior  to  980.  This  singular 
story,  penned  more  than  four  centuries  after  the  incident  it 
relates,  finds  no  corroboration  in  contemporaneous  records 
or  facts,  or  in  the  earlier-written  annals  of  the  monastery. 
Yet  M.  Paulin  Paris  assumes  at  once  in  his  ingenious 
article  in  vol.  i.  of  the  Eomania,  that  the  foreign  monks 
were  brethren  of  Glastonbury,"^  who  wished  to  strengthen 
as  far  as  possible  the  story  of  Joseph's  foundation  of  that 
sanctuary,  by  at  least  having  his  bones,  intended  doubt- 
less for  subsequent  public  veneration,  within  their  walls. 
But  on  this  supposition  the  religious  must  have  been 
gifted  with  truly  marvellous  prescience,  for  the  predatory 
exploit  in  question  was  achieved  more  than  a  century  and 
a  half  before  Henry  II.,  the  benefactor  whom  it  was 
desired  to  serve,  mounted  the  throne,  and  before  William 
of  Malmesbury^  had  j^enned  the  first  hint,  which  has 
reached  our  own  time,  of  the  traditional  advent  of  Joseph 
of  Arimathea  to  Glastonbury.  It  is,  moreover,  remarkable, 
considering  the  readiness  with  which  the  bodies  of  Arthur 
and  Guenever  were  forthcoming  at  an  opportune  juncture,* 
that  there  are  only  obscure  references  to  a  grave  of  St. 

^  Leo  III.  writes  of  him  to  Charlemagne,  "...  non  audivimus  de  eo 
sicut  decet  de  archiepiscopo.'"' 

2  The  Glastonian  brotlierhood  were  not  at  a  later  period  wholly  with- 
out a  reputation  in  such  achievements.  Witness  their  theft — i-emoval 
— real  or  alleged,  of  the  relies  of  St.  Dunstan  from  Canterbury  in  1011, 
which  was  the  subject  of  a  long  correspondence  between  the  archbishop 
and  the  abbey. 

^  Gul.  Malm.  De.  Antiq.  Glaston.  Eccl.  c.  i.  apud  Hearne,  vol.  i.  p.  5. 

■*  In  1189,  when  the  Welsh  renewed  their  resistance  to  the  English 
yoke,  and  maintained  that  Arthur  would  return  to  lead  them  to  triumph. 
Cf.  infra,  note  to  Arthur  on  Arthur's  Chace.  See  Dugdale,  Monast.  i. 
p.  5. 


CH.  III.]  ROMANCE    OF    THE    GRAAL.  171 

Joseph,  not  to  a  shrine  or  reliquary,  as  we  should  expect. 
Leland  visiting  the  abbey  in  1540,  while  noting  the  tombs 
of  Arthur  and  his  queen,  makes  no  mention  of  that  of  St. 
Joseph  of  Arimathea,  though  William  of  Worcester  speaks 
of  the  body  of  the  decurion  as  being  there  in  1478.  It 
is  probable,  therefore,  that  if  the  supposed  relics  were  ever 
transported  from  Moienmoutiers  to  G-lastonbury,  which 
seems  very  questionable,  they  were  subsequently  dis- 
credited. The  belief  in  Palestine,  about  1190,  was  that 
the  body  of  St.  Joseph  was  still  preserved  there. ^  M.  Paulin 
Paris's  theory  is,  therefore,  more  ingenious  than  convincing  ; 
and  we  think  the  facts,  if  facts  they  be,  recorded  by  Richer, 
have  really  little  to  do  with  the  story,  which  is  far  more 
mystical  and  spiritual  than  the  other  romances  of  chivalry, 
and  may  not  improbably  have  been,  as  supposed,  the  work 
of  the  churchman  Map.  There  are  parts  of  the  romance — 
the  engendering  of  Sir  G-alahad  the  Pure '"  alone  destined 
to  deserve  the  achievement  of  the  G-raal,  may  be  instanced, — 
that  appear  to  me  to  contain  allusions  to  the  doctrine  of 
the  Immaculate  Conception,  which  from  the  middle  of  the 
eleventh  century  had  begun  to  attain  prominence,  and  was 
rather  timidly  advocatecl  by  the  Englishman,  Duns  Scotus, 
one  of  the  most  celebrated  theological  writers  of  the  follow- 
ing century.  In  its  composition  it  is  very  clear  that,  what- 
ever the  contemporary  political  bias  of  its  author,  the  in- 
culcation of  faith  and  purity  have  been  held  in  view  through- 
out, and  that  the  mysterious  healing  Graal  is  treated  as  a 
figure  of  the  Eucharist.  That  worthiest  of  all  the  knights, 
the  virgin  Sir  Galahad,  was  alone  "  agreeable  "  to  it,  and  in 
its  strength,  he  could  say  : 

I  rode 
Shattering  all  evil  customs  everywhere, 
And  past  thro'  Pagan  realms  and  made  them  mine, 
And  claslrd  with  Pagan  hordes  and  bore  them  down, 
And  broke  thro'  all. 

^  See  Riant,  Exuviae  Constantinopolitan.ne,  t.  ii.  p.  216. 

'  Anchois  estoient  ambedoi  si  espris  de  la  souueraine  amour  du 
sauueour  ke  de  chele  partie  ne  lor  pooit  corages  venir.  Ne  lors  n'en 
orent  il  mie  corage  quant  il  engenrerent  Galaad  loi'  darrain  enfant  par 
le  commandement  nostre  signour  (jui  le  commanda  que  il  li  apparillast 
de  sa  semenche,  i.  nouiel  fruit  de  (juoi  il  empliroit  en  duant  la  Terre  on 
il  les  uoloit  mener.  MS.  Bib.  Keg.  xiv.  E  3  Furnivars  ed.  of  Lonelich 
— pi'inted  by  Koxburghe  Club. 


172  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

The  romance  is  a  Christian  allegory  where  the  "  Holy  Cup 
of  Healing  "  is  the  mysterious  source  of  a  Power  which 
triumphs  over  all  that  is  false  and  lends  a  spiritual  inyin- 
cibility  to  its  servants. 

Notwithstanding  all  that  has  recently  been  written  on 
this  romance,  much  is  yet  left  to  explore.  We  cannot  in  the 
space  to  which  we  are  limited,  enter  further  upon  the  sub- 
ject, but  append  at  the  end  of  the  volume  a  few  further 
notes  on  the  story. 

Perceval,^ 

a  romance  of  the  fifteenth  century,  where  a  great  deal  is 
written  concerning  the  attainment  and  final  disappearance 
of  the  Graal. 

I  believe  the  only  impression  of  Perceval  is  that  of  Paris, 
in  1530.  It  is  not  known  who  was  the  author  of  the  prose 
romance,^  but  in  his  preface  he  informs  us  that  Philip  of 
Flanders  had  ordered  his  chronicler  to  compile  the  story 
of  Perceval ;  but  both  Philip  and  his  chronicler  having 
died  shortly  after,  Joanne,  Countess  of  Flanders,  ordered 
M.enessier,  ung  sien  familier  or ateur,  to  continue  what  his 
predecessor  had  merely  commenced.  His  metrical  com- 
position was  the  chief  foundation  of  the  prose  romance ; 
but  its  author  has  also  availed  himself  of  the  metrical  work 
on  the  same  subject  written  by  Chrestien  de  Troyes  in  the 
twelfth  century. 

Though  the  conquest  of  the  Sangreal  be  the  chief  sub- 
ject of  the  latter  part  of  Perceval,  the  early  chapters  are 
merely  the  story  of  an  artless  and  inexperienced  youth's 
first  entrance  into  the  world.  The  father  and  two  elder 
brothers  of  Perceval  had  fallen  in  tournaments  or  battle  ; 

^  Trespreulx  et  vaillant  Cheuallier  Perceval  le  gallon's  jadischeuallier 
de  la  Table  ronde,  Leql  acheua  les  aduetures  du  salct  Graal.  auec 
aulchuns  faictz  belliqueulx  du  noble  Cbeualier  Gauuai,  etc.  Paris, 
1530.  Tresplaisante  et  Recreatiue  Hystoii-e  du  Vaillant  Perceval, 
Chevalier  de  la  Table  Ronde,  lequel  acheva  les  adventures  du  Saint  Greal, 
avec  aucuns  faits  belliqueux  du  Chevalier  Gauvain  et  autres. 

^  Concerning  the  author  and  origin  of  this  romance,  see  above,  p.  159. 
Besides  the  works  on  the  subject  of  Perceval  which  are  there  mentioned, 
there  is  an  English  metrical  romance,  Percyvell  of  Galles,  which  was 
preserved  in  the  library  of  Lincoln  cathedral,  and  is  supposed  to  have 
been  written  by  Robert  de  Thornton,  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.,  printed 
by  the  Camden  Society. 


CH.  III.]  PERCEVAL.  173 

and  hence,  as  the  lost  hope  of  the  family,  he  had  been  kept 
at  home  by  his  mother,  who  resided  in  Wales,  where  he  was 
brought  up  in  total  ignorance  of  arms  and  chivalry  [fol.  21.^ 

At  length,  however,  PercevaP  is  roused  to  a  desire  of 
military  renown,  by  meeting  in  a  forest  five  knights, 
arrayed  in  complete  annour.  When  he  has  determined  on 
leaving  the  family  mansion,  his  mother  gives  him  some 
curious  instructions  concerning  the  duties  of  a  knight. 
After  recei-ving  these  admonitions,  he  sets  out  for  the 
court  of  Arthur,  and  on  his  way  falls  in  with  various  ad- 
ventures, in  the  course  of  which  he  makes  some  whimsical 
applications  of  the  lessons  of  his  mother. 

On  his  arrival  at  Carduel,  where  Arthur  then  resided, 
he  encounters  a  knight  in  red  armour  leaving  the  palace, 
and  is  asked  by  him  where  he  is  going,  to  which  Perceval 
replies,  "  To  King  Arthur  to  demand  your  armour."  In 
prosecution  of  this  equitable  claim,  Perceval  without 
farther  ceremony  enters  on  horseback  into  the  hall,  where 
Arthur  is  seated  with  his  knights.  This  mode  of  presen- 
tation was  not  uncommon  in  the  ages  of  chivalry.  Stow 
mentions,^  that  when  Edward  II.  was  sitting  royally  with 

'  Cf.  Achilles  disguised  in  female  attire,  and  sent  by  his  mother  to 
the  Court  of  Lycomedes  to  prevent  him  from  incurring  the  dangers  of  the 
Trojan  war. 

2  See  Appendix  No.  3 — Perceval.  Bergmann  (The  San  Greal,  1870, 
p.  30)  maintains  that  this  name,  invented  by  Guyot,  is  doubtless  derived 
from  fdrisi-ful,  a  compound  Persian  word  signifying  ignorant  knight,  and 
alludes  to  the  ignorance  of  young  Parzival,  who,  in  consequence  of  the 
extreme  solicitude  of  his  mother  to  shelter  him  from  every  danger,  had 
been  deprived  of  all  knightly  education.  Chrestien  de  Troyes,  unac- 
quainted with  the  foreign  origin  of  this  word,  explains  it  as  signifying 
one  v{\\o  pierces  or  wanders  through  vales  to  seek  adventures.  jVI.  de  la 
Villemanjue  (Komans  de  la  Table  Ponde,  1860, p.  396),  considers  Perceval 
synonymous  with  the  Pheredur  of  Celtic  Saga,  Per  =  basin,  and  both 
Keval  and  Kedur  =  companion,  so  that  either  name  =  companion  of  the 
vase.  The  Basin  or  vessel  being  in  the  Pheredur  tradition  the  Cauldron 
of  Ceridvven  or  Celtic  camp-kettle  of  heroes,  a  utensil  figured  on  Celtic 
coins.  See  Hucher's  Le  Saint  Graal,  Paris,  1875-8,  and  his  L'Art  Gaulois 
ou  les  Gaulois  d'api-es  medailles,  etc.     Paris,  1868-74. 

^  Survey  of  London,  1G33,  p.  521.  Cf.  Percy  Essay  on  Ancient  Min- 
strelsy. Note  Z.  prefixed  to  his  Keliques,  Lond.  1839,  and  series  I.  B.I., 
No.  6.  In  the  Welsh  Mabinogi  Kilwych  and  Olwen,  the  former  rides 
into  the  hall  where  Arthur  is  at  table.  Cf  San  Morte  Bcitrage  zur 
Bretonischen  u.  Celtisch-german,  Heldensage,  p.  7,  and  Villemarque 
Contes  Populaires,  etc.,  ii.  288. 


174  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [cH.  III. 

liis  peers,  solemnizing  the  feast  of  Pentecost,  there  entered 
a  woman  attired  like  a  minstrel,  sitting  on  a  great  horse 
trapped,  who  rode  about  the  table  showing  pastime.  In 
the  legend  of  King  Estmere,  the  prince  of  that  name  in- 
troduces himself  in  a  similar  manner  : — 

King  Estmere  he  stabled  his  steede 

Sae  fayre  at  the  hall  bord ; 
The  froth  that  came  from  his  brydle  bitte, 

Light  in  Kyng  Bremor's  beard. 

Arthur  at  this  time  happened  to  be  holding  full  court 
(Cour  Pleniere).  At  the  time  in  which  Perceval  was  writ- 
ten, the  French  sovereigns,  from  whose  customs  the  royal 
manners  in  these  romances  are  frequently  described,  did 
not,  as  afterwards,  maintain  a  court  continually  open,  but 
hved  shut  up  with  their  families  and  the  officers  of  their 
household,  and  only  displayed  their  magnificence  on  cer- 
tain occasions,  which  occurred  three  or  four  times  a  year. 
These  festivals  are  said  to  have  owed  their  origin  to  the 
diets  convoked  by  Charlemagne  to  deliberate  on  State 
affairs,  which  were  re-established  by  Hugh  Capet ; — they 
were  announced  by  heralds  at  the  town  or  castle  where 
they  were  to  be  celebrated, — the  barons  and  strangers  were 
invited,  and  the  entertainment  consisted  in  feasts  and 
dancing,  joined  to  the  exercise  of  the  talents  of  the  minstrel. 

It  was  on  a  solemn  occasion  of  this  nature,  that  Per- 
ceval behaved  with  the  bluntness  that  has  been  described. 
Arthur,  however,  promises  to  make  him  a  knight  if  he  will 
dismount  from  his  horse,  and  pay  his  vows  to  God  and  the 
saints.  But  Perceval  would  only  receive  the  honour  he 
solicited  on  horseback,  because,  as  he  said,  the  knights  he 
met  in  the  forest  were  not  dismounted;  and  he  added 
another  condition  to  his  reception  into  the  order  of  knight- 
hood, which  was,  that  the  king  should  grant  him  permis- 
sion to  acquire  the  arms  of  the  Red  Knight,  who,  it  seems, 
was  the  mortal  enemy  of  Arthur.  On  expressing  his  in- 
tention to  gain  them  by  his  owti  valour,  Keux,  the  king's 
seneschal,  who  is  introduced  in  most  of  the  romances  of 
the  Eound  Table,  but  is  always  represented  as  a  detractor, 
a  coward,  and  a  boaster,  nearly  resembhng  the  character 
which  Shakspeare  has  painted  in  so  many  of  his  dramas, 


CH.  III.]  PERCEVAL.  175 

begins  to  jeer  Perceval.  On  this  a  damsel,  who,  we  are  in- 
formed, had  not  smiled  for  ten  years,  comes  np  to  Perceval, 
and  tells  him,  smiling,  that  if  he  live  he  will  be  one  of  the 
bravest  and  best  of  knights.  The  seneschal,  exasperated 
at  her  good  linmour  and  the  prospects  held  out  to  Perceval, 
gives  the  maiden  a  blow  on  the  cheek ;  and,  seeing  the 
king's  fool  sitting  near  a  chimney,  kicks  him  into  the  fire, 
between  the  two  andirons,  because  the  fool  had  been  ac- 
customed to  say  that  this  damsel  would  not  smile  till  she 
had  seen  him  who  would  be  the  flower  of  chivalry  [fol.  64]. 
A  fool  was  a  common  appendage  to  the  courts  of  those  days 
in  which  the  romance  was  written.  This  embellishment  was 
derived  from  the  Asiatic  princes.  In  Europe,  a  fool  was 
the  ornament  held  in  next  estimation  to  a  dwarf ;  his  head 
was  shaved,  he  wore  a  white  dress  with  a  yellow  bonnet, 
and  carried  a  bell  or  bauble  in  his  hand.  If,  however,  the 
scene  which  took  place  between  the  fool,  the  seneschal,  and 
the  damsel,  be  a  just  picture  of  the  manners  of  a  court  in 
the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries,  the  jjresence  of  a 
king  must  in  those  days  have  inspired  very  little  reverence. 

Perceval  having  at  length  been  knighted  on  his  own 
terms,  sets  out  in  quest  of  the  Eed  Knight,  and  obtains 
the  arms  he  desired  by  slaying  him  in  single  combat ;  but 
as  he  did  not  understand  how  to  open  or  close  a  helmet, 
and  knew  notliing  of  the  fabric  of  the  other  parts  of 
armour,  he  would  have  been  much  puzzled  without  the 
assistance  of  his  squire,  Guyon,  who  aids  in  arming  him  ; 
and  also  tries  to  2)ersuade  him  to  change  his  under  dress 
for  that  of  the  knight  he  had  slain.  "  I  will  never,"  replied 
he,  "quit  the  good  hemi)en  shirt  that  my  mother  made  me." 
Thus  Perceval  would  only  take  the  armour  of  the  knight, 
and  the  squire  is  obliged  to  j^ut  the  spurs  over  the  gathers 
which  his  master  would  on  no  account  part  with.  He 
then  teaches  him  to  i)ut  his  foot  in  the  stirrup,  for  Perce- 
val had  never  used  stirrup  nor  spur,  but  had  rode  without 
saddle,  and  urged  on  his  horse  with  a  stick.  The  squire 
then  carries  the  news  of  Perceval's  success  to  the  court  of 
Arthur,  to  the  great  joy  of  the  fool,  and  consternation 
of  the  seneschal  [f.  7,  etc.]. 

After  this,  chance  (which  does  so  much  in  all  romances 
of  chivalry)  conducts  Perceval  to  the  house  of  a  knight 


176  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

who  instructs  him  in  the  exercises  and  duties  o£  his  pro- 
fession, and  persuades  him,  though  not  without  difficulty, 
to  forsake  his  rustic  garb  for  an  attire  more  magnificent 
and  warlike  [f.  9]. 

The  romance  of  Perceval  is  almost  the  only  one  which 
relates  the  story  of  a  raw  and  inexperienced  countryman's 
first  entrance  into  the  world,  and  his  immediate  admission 
into   the   order   of   knighthood.     In   other  romances  the 
heroes  are  introduced  to  our  acquaintance  in  the  plenitude  j 
of  glory,  or  we  follow  them  through  their  gradual  initia-  I 
tion,  while  they  are  bred  up  among  arms,  and  j^ass  through  I 
the  regular  steps  in  their   advancement  to   knighthood.  I 
The  first  pages  of  Perceval  are  also  by  much  the  most  / 
comic  of  the  Round  Table  romances  ;  in  none  of  the  other  \ 
knights  of  Arthur  do  we  meet  with  the  same  bluntness  and 
naivete  as  in  the  young  Welshman. 

After  Perceval  has  been  trained  to  the  exercises  of 
chivalry,  and  equipped  in  his  military  garb,  the  incidents 
of  the  romance  bear  a  perfect  resemblance  to  those  of  the 
other  fabulous  histories  with  which  it  has  been  classed. 

Our  hero  having  left  his  instructor,  arrives  at  the  castle 
of  Beaurepaire.  Soon  after  liis  entrance  he  finds  that  it 
is  blockaded  by  an  enemy,  and  in  the  course  of  the  day  he 
feels  that  it  is  reduced  to  extremities  for  want  of  provisions. 
Blanchefleur,  the  lady  of  the  castle,  makes  up,  in  the  best 
way  in  her  power,  for  his  bad  entertainment  at  table,  and 
he  in  return  frees  her  from  the  besiegers,  by  overthrowing 
in  single  combat  their  chiefs,  whom  he  sends  prisoners  to 
the  court  of  Arthur,  charging  them  to  inform  the  smiling 
damsel  that  he  would  avenge  her  of  the  blow  she  had  re- 
ceived from  the  seneschal  [f.  10]. 

Having  raised  the  siege  of  Beaurepaire,  Perceval  pro- 
ceeds to  the  residence  of  his  uncle  the  King  Pecheur,  at 
whose  court  he  sees  the  Sangreal  or  Saint  G-raal  and  sacred 
lance  [f.  18].  The  wounds  which  this  prince  received  in 
his  youth  had  never  yet  healed  up.  They  would,  indeed, 
have  been  cured  had  his  nephew  thought  proper  to  ask 
certain  questions  concerning  these  relics,  as  what  is  the 
use  of  the  Sangreal,  and  why  does  blood  drop  from  the 
lance?  These  pertinent  inquiries,  however,  do  not  sug- 
gest themselves  ;  and  by  his  want  of  curiosity  he  incurs. 


CH.  III.]  PERCEVAL.  177 

as  we  shall  afterwards  find,  the  displeasure  of  the  Lady- 
Hideous. 

Leaving.,'  his  unfortunate  uncle  unquestioned,  Perceval 
sets  out  on  his  return  to  the  court  of  Arthur,  where  he  is 
preceded  by  many  knights  whom  he  vanquishes  on  his  way, 
and  sends  thither  as  prisoners  [f.  19].  On  his  arrival  he 
takes  vengeance  on  the  seneschal  Kreux,  and  accompanies 
Arthur  to  Carlion,  where  that  prince  holds  a  full  court. 
During  his  stay  there,  he  one  day  sees  the  Lady  Hideous 
pass,  who  loads  him  with  her  maledictions.  Her  neck  and 
hands,  says  the  romance,  were  brown  as  iron,  which  was 
the  least  part  of  her  ugliness  ;  her  eyes  were  blacker  than 
a  Moor's,  and  as  little  as  those  of  a  mouse  ;  she  had 
the  nose  of  a  cat  or  an  ape,  and  lips  like  an  ox  ;  her  teeth 
were  red,  like  the  yolk  of  eggs  ;  she  was  bearded  like  a 
goat,  was  humped  before  and  beliind,  and  had  both  legs 
twisted.  This  paragon  makes  her  excuses  to  King  Arthur 
for  not  tarrying  at  his  coui't,  as  she  had  a  long  journey 
before  her,  but  points  out  a  castle  where  570  knights,  each 
with  his  lady,  were  detained  in  captivity  [f.  26]. 

The  deliverance  of  these  prisoners  opens  a  vast  field  of 
enterprise,  and  the  adventures  of  many  knights,  particu- 
larly of  Gauvain,  the  nephew  of  Arthur,  are  related  at 
great  length. 

Perceval  dedicated  himself  for  five  years  to  exploits  of 
chivalry,  and  neglected  all  exercises  of  devotion.  He  is  at 
length  reclaimed  by  meeting  in  a  forest  a  procession  of  ten 
ladies  and  three  knights,  who  were  doing  penance  for  past 
transgression,  and  were  walking  barefooted  for  the  sake  of 
mortification.  Perceval  is  much  edified  by  their  conversa- 
tion, and  goes  to  confess  himself  to  a  hermit,  who  proves 
to  be  his  uncle,  the  brother  of  King  Pecheur  [f.  34]. 

From  the  hermitage  Perceval  sets  out  with  the  view  of 
revisiting  this  piscatory  monarch,  and  of  propounding  the 
proper  interrogatories  concerning  the  Sangreal.  In  wan- 
dering from  wood  to  wood,  he  comes  again  to  the  castle  of 
Beaurepaire,  where,  spite  of  his  late  conversion,  he  passes 
three  days  with  Blanchefleur  [f.  143,  etc.]. 

After  having  accomplished  the  visit  to  his  uncle,  whose 
wounds  he  at  length  heals  up  by  virtue  of  his  questions 
[f.   180,  207],   Perceval  returns   to   the  court  of  Arthur 


178  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

[f.  218].  Soon  after  his  arrival,  intelligence  is  brought  to 
him  of  his  uncle's  death,  who,  it  would  appear,  had  only 
thriven  by  his  infirmities,  as  some  persons  are  kept  alive 
by  their  gout.  Arthur  and  all  his  court  set  out  with 
Perceval  for  the  kingdom  of  his  deceased  relative,  to  be 
present  at  the  coronation.  In  succeeding  to  his  sinful  pre- 
decessor, Perceval  also  inherited  a  number  of  sacred  curio- 
sities. Of  these  the  chief  was  the  Sangreal,  whose  wonders 
were  manifested  much  to  the  satisfaction  of  Arthur  and 
his  barons  :  it  appeared  daily  at  the  hour  of  repast  in  the 
hands  of  a  damsel,  who  carried  it  three  times  round  the 
table,  which  was  immediately  replenished  with  all  the 
delicacies  the  guests  could  desire. 

Arthur  returns  to  his  usual  residence,  and  Perceval, 
soon  after  his  accession,  retires  to  a  hermitage,  taking  with 
him  the  Sangreal,  which  provided  for  his  sustenance  till 
the  day  of  his  death  [f.  219].  The  moment  he  expired, 
says  the  romance,  the  Sangreal,  the  sacred  lance,  and  silver 
trencher  or  paten  which  covered  the  Graal,  were  carried  up 
to  the  holy  heavens  in  presence  of  the  attendants,  and 
since  that  time  have  never  anywhere  been  seen  on  earth.^ 

Perceval,  after  his  death,  was  conveyed  to  the  Palais 
aventureux,  where  he  was  buried  by  the  side  of  King 
Pecheur,  and  this  epitaph  was  inscribed  on  his  tomb: — 
Cy-Grit  Perceval  le  Gallois,  qui  du  Saint  Greal  les  adven- 
tures acheva. 

Many  incidents  of  the  life  of  Perceval  are  related  in 
other  romances  of  the  Round  Table,  especially  in  Lancelot 
du  Lac  [iii.  fol.  56,  etc.],  where  a  full  account,  but  with 
considerable  variation,  is  given  of  the  early  part  of  his 
career ;  he  is  brought  to  the  court  of  Arthur  by  an  elder 

1  The  aim  of  the  author  of  the  poem  of  Parzival  (Wolfram  von  Eschen- 
bach),  was  the  solution  of  that  great  problem  which  at  all  times,  and 
especially  in  the  Middle  Ages,  has  most  deeply  moved  the  minds  of 
men,  and  is  ever  the  most  weighty  theme  of  art: — the  satisfaction  of 
man's  quest  after  happiness.  But  the  problem  can  only  be  solved  when 
this  infinite  yearning  for  happiness  meets  with  an  adequate  object,  and 
this  indeed  is  not  to  be  found  on  earth.  .  .  .  The  fancy  of  the  poet,  there- 
fore, conceived  such  an  object  in  the  Holy  Graal,  the  resuscitated 
Adamitic  paradise,  the  existence  of  which  was  made  intelligible  and 
attested  by  the  doctrine  of  the  Redemption  and  the  introduction  of  a 
special  divine  favour. — Domanig,  Parzival  Studien,  Heft.  ii.  p.  106. 


CH.  III.]  LANCELOT    DU    LAC.  179 

brother ;  and  a  lady,  who  had  not  spoken,  in  place  of  not 
having  smiled,  for  ten  years,  foretells  his  future  eminence, 
and  expires  on  having  uttered  the  prediction. 

But  the  chief  dift'erence  is  in  the  circumstances  con- 
nected with  the  acquisition  of  the  Sangreal,  the  conquest 
of  which  is  a  leading  incident  in 


Lancelot  du  Lac,^ 

and  occupies  a  considerable  portion  of  that  romance. 
Hence  it  has  been  classed  among  the  continuations  of  the 
history  of  the  Sangreal ;  but  the  second  part,  which  re- 
lates to  the  acquirement  of  that  relic,  is  by  no  means  the 
most  interesting  in  the  work,  nor  that  in  which  Lancelot " 
himself  has  the  greatest  share.  The  account  of  the  earliest 
years  of  his  life  is  the  most  romantic,  and  his  intrigue 
with  Queen  Geneura  the  most  curious  part  of  the  com- 
position. 

King  Ban  of  Britany  was,  in  his  old  age,  attacked  by 
his  enemy  Claudas,  a  neighbouring  prince,  and  after  a 
long  war  was  besieged  in  the  strong  hold  of  Trible,  which 
was  the  only  place  that  now  remained  to  him,  but  was 
considered  as  an  impregnable  fortress  [i.  fob  1,  Paris, 
1533].  Being  at  length  reduced  to  extremities,  he  departs 
from  this  castle  with  his  wife  Helen  and  his  infant  son 
Lancelot,  in  order  to  beg  assistance  from  his  suzerain 
King  Arthur  ;  and,  meanwhile,  intrusts  the  defence  of 
Trible  to  his  seneschal.  While  prosecuting  his  route  he 
ascends  a  hill,  from  the  top  of  which  he  perceives  his 
castle  on  fire,  for  it  had  been  treacherously  surrendered  by 

^  Roman  fait  et  compose  a  la  perpetuation  des  vertueux  faits  et  gestcs 
de  plusieurs  nobles  et  vaillants  cheualliers,  qui  furent  au  temps  du  roi 
Artus,  eompao^nons  de  la  Table- Konde,  specialement  a  la  louange  de 
Lancelot  du  Lac.  5  parts,  1488,  vol.  i.  printed  at  Kouen  ;  and  vol.  ii.  at 
Paris.  Le  premier  ( —  tiers  volume)  de  Lancelot  du  Lac  nouvellement 
imprime,  etc.  3  vols.  A.  Verard,  Taris,  1494,  fol.  Other  editions 
appeared  at  Paris  in  1503,  1.513,  1520,  1533.     See  Ward  Cat.,  p.  345. 

^  M.  de  la  Villemarque  (Les  Komans  de  la  Table  Ronde,  pp.  58-9), 
identifies  Lancelot,  or  L'Ancelot,  with  a  Cymric  chieftain,  Mael,  whose 
■character  and  caner,  as  recited  in  the  chronicles  and  bardic  records, 
answers  to  those  of  Lancelot.  Mael  signifies  servant  in  Celtic,  as  does 
Ancel,  or  its  diminutive  Ancelot,  in  Romance.  See  also  J.  S.  Stuart 
Olennie,  Lssay  on  Arthurian  Localities,  p.  Iv*.  See  supp.  note  on  names. 


180  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

the  senesclial,  who  in  romance  is  generally  represented  as 
a  coward  or  traitor.  At  this  sight  the  old  man  is  struck 
with  despair,  and  instantly  expires.  Helen,  leaving  her 
child  on  the  brink  of  a  lake,  flies  to  receive  the  last  sighs 
of  her  husband ;  on  returning  she  perceives  the  little 
Lancelot  in  the  arms  of  a  nymph,  who,  on  the  approach 
of  the  queen,  throws  herself  into  the  lake  with  the  child. 
"Et  quand  la  royne  approcha  des  chevaulx,  qu'estoient 
dessus  le  lac,  si  voit  son  fils  deslye  hors  du  berceau,  et  ime 
damoiselle  qui  le  tient  tout  nud  en  son  giron,  et  le  estrainct 
et  serre  moult  doulcement  entre  ses  deux  mammelles,  et 
luy  baise  souvent  les  yeulx  et  la  bouche  :  car  c'estoit  ung 
des  plus  beaulx  enf ans  de  tout  le  monde.  Et  lors  la  Eoyne 
dist  a  la  damoiselle — Belle  doulce  amye,  pour  Dieu  laissez 
mon  enfant;  car  assez  aura  desormais  de  dueil  et  de 
mesaise  :  il  est  cheu  en  trop  grand  pourete  et  mi  sere  ;  car 
il  a  perdu  toutes  joyes.  Son  pere  est  oren droit  mort  et  sa 
terre  perdue  qui  n'estoit  mye  petite  si  Dieu  la  luy  eust 
gardee.  A  chose  que  la  Royne  die  la  damoiselle  ne  repond 
ung  seul  mot.  Et  quant  elle  la  voit  approcher  si  se  lieve 
a  tout  I'enfant,  et  s'en  vient  droictement  au  lac,  et  joinct 
les  pieds  et  se  lance  dedans.  La  Royne  voyant  son  fils 
dedans  le  lac  se  pasme  incontinent." — [vol.  i.,  f.  4,  recto]. 
This  nymph  was  Vivian,  mistress  of  the  enchanter  Merlin, 
better  known  by  name  of  the  Lady  of  the  Lake.  Lancelot 
received  the  appellation  of  Lac  from  having  been  educated 
at  the  court  of  this  enchantress,  whose  palace  was  situated 
in  the  midst,  not  of  a  real,  but,  like  the  appearance  which 
deceives  the  African  traveller,  of  an  imaginary  lake,  whose 
deluding  resemblance  served  as  a  barrier  to  her  residence. 
Here  she  dwelt  not  alone,  but  in  the  midst  of  a  numerous 
retinue,  and  a  splendid  court  of  knights  and  damsels. 

The  queen,  after  her  double  loss,  retired  to  a  convent, 
where  she  was  joined  by  the  widow  of  Bohort,  for  this 
good  king  had  died  of  grief  on  hearing  of  the  death  of  his 
brother  Ban.  His  two  sons,  Lyonel  and  Bohort,  are 
rescued  by  a  faithful  knight  called  Farien,  from  the  fury 
of  Claudas.  They  arrive  in  the  shape  of  greyhounds  at 
the  palace  of  the  lake,  where,  having  resumed  their  natural 
form,  they  are  educated  along  with  their  cousin  Lancelot 
[i.  f.  6,  15]. 


CH.  III.]  LANCELOT    DU    LAC.  181 

When  tliis  young  prince  has  attained  the  age  of  eighteen, 
the  Lady  of  the  Lake  carries  him  to  the  court  of  Arthur,  that 
he  may  be  admitted  to  the  honour  of  knighthood  [i.  f .  29, 
etc.].  On  his  first  appearance  he  makes  a  strong  impression 
on  the  heart  of  Geneura.  The  history  of  Arthur  receives  a 
singular  colouring  from  the  amours  of  his  queen  with 
Lancelot.  It  is  for  her  sake  that  the  young  knight  lays 
whole  cargoes  of  tributary  crowns  at  the  feet  of  her  hus- 
band ;  for  her  he  accomplishes  the  conquest  of  North- 
umberland, where  he  takes  the  castle  of  Douloureuse 
Garde  (Bei-wick),  afterwards,  under  the  name  of  Joyeuse 
Garde,  the  favourite  residence  and  burying-place  of  the 
knight.  In  compliment  to  Geneura,  he  attacks  and  defeats 
King  Gallehaut,  who  becomes  his  chief  confidant,  and 
brings  about  the  first  stolen  interview  between  his  friend 
and  Geneura.  It  is  even  at  the  suggestion  of  this  queen 
that  he  excites  Arthur  and  his  knights  to  a  long  war  of 
vengeance  against  Claudas,  the  usurper  of  his  own  domi- 
nions. ^Vlien  Arthur,  deceived  by  the  artifices  of  a  woman, 
who  insisted  that  she  was  the  real  Geneura,  repudiates 
his  queen,  leaving  her  at  liberty  to  indulge,  without  re- 
straint, her  passion  for  Lancelot,  the  knight  is  not  satisfied ; 
he  deems  it  necessary  for  the  dignity  of  his  mistress  that 
she  should  be  restored  to  the  throne  of  Britain,  and  that, 
protected  in  her  reputation  by  the  cloak  of  marriage  and 
the  sword  of  her  lover,  she  should  pass  her  life  in  re- 
putable adultery  [i.  f.  133,  etc].  Hence  a  great  propor- 
tion of  his  exploits  are  single  combats,  undertaken  in 
defence  of  the  innocence  of  his  mistress,  in  which  his 
success  is  usually  greater  than  he  deserved  from  the 
justice  of  his  cause.  To  Geneura,  too,  on  the  most  trying 
occasions  his  fidelity  remains  inviolate,  as  appears  from 
the  indignation  he  expresses  at  having  been  betrayed 
into  the  embraces  of  a  damsel,  who  inconsiderately  as- 
sumed the  character  of  Geneura  [ii.  f.  86] — "Trop  dure- 
ment  damoyselle  m'avez  vous  mocqvie ;  mais  vous  en 
mourrez ;  car  Je  ne  vueil  pas  que  jamais  decevez  Chevalier 
en  telle  maniere  comme  vous  m'avez  deceu.  Lors  dressa 
Tespce  contremont,  et  la  damoyselle  qui  grant  paour  avoit 
de  mourir  luy  cria  mercy  a  joinctes  mains,  en  luy  disant — 
haa  franc  Chevalier  ne  m'occiez  mye,  pour  celle  pitic  que 


182  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Dieu  eut  de  Marie  Magdaleine.  Si  s'arresta  tout  pensif — 
si  la  veit  la  plus  belle  que  oncques  avoit  vea :  et  il  trem- 
bloit  si  durement  d'yre  et  de  maltalent  que  a  peine  pouoit 
il  tenir  son  espee,  et  pensoit  s'il  occiroit,  ou  si  il  la  laisse- 
roit  vivre.  Et  continuellement  la  damoyselle  luy  crioit 
mercy ;  et  estoit  devant  luy,  toute  nue,  en  sa  cliemise,  a 
genoulx :  et  luy,  en  regardant  sa  viz  et  sa  bouche,  en  quoy 
il  avoit  tant  de  beaulte,  luy  dist. — Damoyselle,  Je  m'en 
yrai  tout  vaincu  et  tout  recreant  comme  celluy  qui  ne 
s'ose  de  vous  venger,  car  trop  seroye  cruel  et  desloyal  si 
grant  beaulte  destruisoye."  A  more  convincing  proof  of 
his  fidelity,  however,  is  exhibited  in  his  reply  to  a  damsel 
who  makes  to  him  an  explicit  declaration  of  love. — "  Ma 
voluntee  y  est  si  bien  enracinee  que  Je  n'auroye  pas  le 
couriage  de  Ten  oter.  Mon  cueur  y  est  nuyt  et  jour,  car 
mon  cueur  ne  mes  yeux  ne  tendent  tous  jours  fors  celle 
part,  ne  mes  oreilles  ne  peuent  ouyr  bonnes  nouvelles  que 
d'elle.  Que  vous  dirois — mon  ame  et  mon  corps  sont 
tous  a  elle.  Ainsi  suis  Je  tout  a  son  plaisir,  ne  Je  ne  puis 
rien  faire  de  moy,  non  plus  que  le  serf  peult  faire  autre 
chose  que  son  seigneur  luy  commande." 

Nor  does  Lancelot  merely  signalize  his  attachment  by 
the  preservation  of  his  fidelity,  or  by  engaging  in  those 
enterprises  which  were  congenial  to  the  feelings  of  a 
knight,  but  submits  to  disgraces  which  no  one  of  his  pro- 
fession could  endure ;  thus,  for  the  purpose  of  overtaking 
Geneura  when  a  horse  could  not  be  procured,  he  ascends  a 
cart,  the  greatest  infamy  to  which  a  knight  could  be  sub- 
jected :  "  En  ce  temps  la  estoit  accoustumee  que  Charrette 
estoit  si  vile  que  nul  n'estoit  dedans  qui  tout  loz  et  tout 
honneur  n'eust  perdu :  et  quant  s'invouloit  a  aucun  tollir 
honneur  si  le  faisoit  s'en  monter  en  une  Charrette :  Car 
Charrette  servit,  en  ce  temps  la,  de  ce  que  Pilloris  servent 
orendroit ;  ne  en  chascune  bonne  ville  n'en  avoit,  en  ce 
temps  la,  que  une  "  [ii.  f.  3]. 

At  length  the  intrigue  of  Lancelot  and  G-eneura  is 
detected  by  the  fairy  Morgain  [i.  155],  the  sister  of  Arthur, 
and  revealed  [iii.  f.  126]  to  that  prince  by  her  and  Agra- 
vain  [iii.  f.  133],  one  of  the  knights  of  the  Round  Table, 
for  a  vassal  would  have  become  criminal  had  he  concealed 
anything  from  his  lord.      After  this   detection  Lancelot 


CH.  III.]  LANCELOT    DU    LAC.  183 

sustains  a  long  war  against  Arthur  and  liis  knights,  first 
in  his  castle  of  Joyeuse  Garde,  and  afterwards  in  his  states 
of  Britany.  Arthur  is  recalled  from  the  prosecution  of 
this  contest  by  the  usurpation  of  Mordrec ;  ^  and  as  he 
disappears  after  the  battle  which  he  fights  with  this  un- 
natural son,  he  is  believed  to  have  been  slain  with  the 
rest  of  his  chivalry.'^  Geneura,  as  if  she  thought  pleasure 
only  gratifying  while  criminal,  withdraws  to  a  convent. 
Lancelot  having  arrived  in  Britain  after  the  battle,  retires 
to  a  hermitage  [iii.  f.  150],  and  is  joined  in  his  solitude 
by  his  brother  Hector  of  Mares,  the  only  other  Knight 
of  the  Round  Table  who  had  survived  the  fatal  battle 
with  Mordrec. 

Thus,  although  Lancelot  du  Lac  is  not  free  from  the 
defect  (common  to  all  the  Hound  Table  romances)  of  a 
want  of  unity  in  the  action,  there  is  yet  one  ruling  passion 
that  animates  the  story.  The  unconnected  adventures  of 
the  Duke  of  Clarence  [i.  f.  140,  etc.],  as  well  as  those  of 
Lyonel  and  Boort,  the  two  cousins  of  Lancelot,  are,  in- 
deed, related  at  full  length,  and  the  conclusion  of  the 
romance  is  principally  occupied  by  the  quest  of  the  San- 
greal,  in  which  Lancelot  acts  only  a  subordinate  part ;  but 
as  far  as  the  hero  of  the  work  is  concerned,  his  passion 
for  Geneura  is  the  ruling  principle  by  which  all  his  actions 
are  guided,  and  the  main  spring  of  the  incidents  of  the 
romance.  The  adventures  of  the  principal  character,  in- 
deed, are  too  much  of  the  same  cast :  he  is  too  often  taken 
prisoner,  and  too  often  rescued;  and  his  fits  of  insanity 
are  also  too  frequently  repeated  [i.  149,  ii.  1,  &c.].  Lance- 
lot, however,  has  been  perhaps  the  most  popular  of  all 
the  romances  of  the  Bound  Table.  On  the  French  playing- 
cards  one  of  the  knaves  bears  the  name  of  Lancelot ;   a 

'  Mordred,  ^lodred,  and  Medrawd.  Mordred  is  sometimes  called 
Arthurs  nephew,  sometimes  his  bastard  son.  An  explanation  is  found 
in  the  Giglan,  v.  2.  "  iSon  propre  fils  naturel  qii'il  avoit  engendre  en  sa 
scDur  avant  quelle  fust  mariee,  car  il  7ie  scavoit  pas  quelle  fut  sa  socur 
lequcl  avoit  nom  Mordret,"  etc. — Schmidt,  Wien.  Jahrb.  xxix.  p.  103. 
Xor  is  the  case  of  Arthur  and  Mordred  the  sole  instance  in  folktale  of 
this  relationship.  Siegmund  (in  the  Volsunga  Saga)  has  a  son,  Sinfiotli, 
by  his  sister  Signe,  who,  under  an  assumed  form,  was  unrecognized  by 
him. — LiEB.     See  infra,  note  on  the  Gregory  Legend,  vol.  ii. 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  2. 


184  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

proof  of  the  estimation  in  wliicli  the  work  was  held  at  the 
time  this  game  was  invented. 

There  is  a  metrical  romance.on  the  subject  of  Lancelot, 
entitled  "  La  Charette,"  which  was  begun  by  Chrestien  de 
Troyes  in  the  twelfth  century,  and  finished  by  G-eoffrey 
de  Ligny.  This  work  is  more  ancient  than  the  prose 
Lancelot,^  but,  as  the  incidents  are  different,  it  cannot  be 
regarded  as  the  original  of  that  composition.  Mr.  Warton, 
and  the  authors  of  the  Bibliotheque,  seem  to  agree  in 
thinking  that  the  work,  of  which  I  have  given  the  above 
abstract,  was  originally  written  in  Latin ;  but  Warton 
ascribes  the  French  version  to  Eobert  de  Borron,  on  the 
authority  of  a  MS.  Lancelot  du  Lac,  where  it  is  said  to 
be — mis  en  Francois  par  Eobert  de  Borron  par  le  comande- 
ment  de  Henri  Roi  d'Angleterre.  This  manuscript,  how- 
ever, is  not  the  same  with  the  printed  Lancelot.  In  one 
passage  of  the  Bibliotheque  the  composition  of  the  prose 
romance  of  Lancelot  is  attributed  to  G-ualtier  Map,  who  is 
also  mentioned  as  the  French  author  in  the  preface  to 
Meliadus,^ — Ce  n'est  mye  de  Lancelot  car  Maistre  Grual- 
tier  Map  en  parla  assez  sufiisamment  en  son  livre.  The 
authors  of  the  Bibliotheque  have  elsewhere  attributed 
Lancelot  du  Lac  to  Gasse  le  Blond,  a  mistake  which  seems 
to  have  arisen  from  a  misconception  of  a  passage  in  the 
same  preface,  where  it  is  said  that  he  was  the  author  of 
the  adventures  of  Lancelot,  meaning  those  connected  with 
this  hero,  which  are  related  in  the  romance  of  Tristan. 
Whoever  may  have  been  the  author  of  the  prose  Lancelot, 
it  is  certainly  of  very  high  antiquity :  indeed  it  is  evidently 
older  than  Tristan,  which  is  generally  accounted  the 
earliest  prose  romance  of  chivalry.  No  mention  is  made 
in  the  story  of  Lancelot,  of  the  achievements  of  Tristan ; 
and  surely,  if  the  work  devoted  to  his  exploits  had  been 
written  first,  so  renowned  a  knight  would  not  have  been 
passed  over  in  silence.  The  Livre  de  Tristan,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  full  of  the  adventures  of  Lancelot,  many  of  which 
coincide  with  those  related  in  the  romance  of  that  name. 
The  romance  of  Lancelot  was  first  j)rinted  at  Paris  in 

^  See  Romania,  i.  p.  477. 

2  And  in  MSS.     See  Paulin  Paris,  Manuscrits  Fran^ais  de  la  Biblio- 
theque du  Eoi,  i.  p.  146. 


CH.  III.]  LANCELOT    DU    LAC.  185 

1494,  which  is  considered  as  the  best  edition  :  it  afterwards 
appeared  in  1513,  and  hastlj  in  1533,  which  impression  is 
held  in  higher  estimation  than  that  by  which  it  was 
immediately  preceded. 

In  some  of  the  editions,  Lancelot  is  divided  into  three 
piarts,^  comprising  the  adventures  of  Agravain,  the  Quest 
of  the  Graal,  and  the  Morte  d'Artus,  which  is  the  origin 
of  the  celebrated  metrical  romance  Morte  Arthur.  The 
English  prose  work  of  that  name,  also  called  the  History 
or  Boke  of  Arthur,  was  compiled  from  the  romances 
of  Lancelot,  Merlin,  and  Tristan,  by  Sir  Thomas  Malory, 
in  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Edward  IV.,  and  was 
printed  by  Caxton  in  1485."  Mr.  Ritson  imagines  that  the 
English  metrical  romance  of  Morte  Arthur  was  versified 
from  the  prose  one  of  the  same  title,  but  as  it  differs  essen- 
tially from  Malory's  prose  work,  and  agrees  exactly  with 
the  last  part  of  the  French  romance  of  Lancelot,  it  is  more 
probable  that  it  has  been  versified  from  this  composition.'' 

^  In  the  same  way  as  the  heading  Graal  sometimes  covered  seven 
romances  more  or  less  distinct  from  each  other,  viz.,  ( 1)  The  Graal  and  its 
Guardianship,  by  J.  Arimath,  (2)  The  Quest  of  the  Graal  — (the  latter, 
however,  often  included  under  Lancelot),  (3)  Merlin,  (4-7),  Lancelot. 
So  under  Lancelot  we  find — 

1.  The  early  adventures  of  the  Knight  and  his  adulter^'  with  Genever, 
or  Lancelot,  properly  so  called.  This  first  part  is  often  divided  into  two 
sections,  the  pausing  place  being  at  the  departure  of  Lancelot  from 
Arthur's  Court  in  company  with  Gallehaut.   See  Ward,  Cat.  i.  p.  345,  etc. 

2.  Agravain  the  Troud. 

3.  Quest  of  the  Graal. 

4.  Morte  Arthur. 

-  Malory's  '•  Morte  Arthur  "  portrays  in  an  unjust  light  the  characters 
of  Sir  Gavain  and  other  Knights  of  the  Kound  Table,  though  a  work  of 
the  greatest  interest  and  composed  in  the  true  sentiment  of  chivalry. 
See  Sir  Walter  Scott's  remarks  in  his  introduction  to  Sir  Tristi'em, 
No.  IL  Sir  Thomas  Malory's  book  was  edited  with  an  introductiun  in 
1668.  by  Sir  Edward  Strachey. 

^  Dunlop  copies  Ellis  in  saying  that  this  metrical  version  (printed  in 
1819  for  the  Jioxburghe  club)  was  translated  immediately  from  the 
French  text.  Had  he  taken  the  trouble  of  comparing  them  together, 
he  would  not  have  hazarded  such  an  assertion, — V.  Madden,  An  Eng- 
lish (or  rather  Scottish)"metrical  vei'sion  of  Lancelot  of  the  Laik,  about 
1490-1500,  has  been  edited  by  Mr.  Skeat  from  a  manuscript  in  the 
Library  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  for  the  Early  English  Text 
Society,  London,  1865.  The  earlier  edition,  published  for  the  Maitland 
Club  in  1839,  is  very  inaccurate. 


186  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

To  Malory,  Spenser  was  greatly  indebted,  as  Warton  has 
shown  at  much  length  in  his  remarks  on  that  poet's  imita- 
tions of  the  old  romances/  where  he  also  attempts  to  prove 
that  Ariosto  borrowed  from  Lancelot  du  Lac  the  notion  of 
Orlando's  madness,  of  his  enchanter  Merlin,  and  of  his 
magic  cup. 

The  fairy  Morgana,  who  is  a  principal  character  in  this 
romance,  and  discovered  to  Arthur  the  intrigue  of  Greneura 
with  Lancelot,  is  a  leading  personage  not  only  in  other  tales 
of  chivalry,  but  also  in  the  Italian  poems.  In  the  Orlando 
Furioso  she  convinces  her  brother  of  the  infidelity  of  his 
queen,  by  means  of  a  magical  horn.  About  a  fifth  part  of 
the  Orlando  Innamorato,  beginning  at  canto  thirty-six,  is 
occupied  with  the  Fata  Morgana.  She  is  there  represented 
as  dispensing  all  the  treasures  of  the  earth,  and  as  inhabit- 
ing a  splendid  residence  at  the  bottom  of  a  lake.  Thither 
Orlando  jDonetrates,  and  forces  her  to  deliver  iip  the  knights 
she  detained  in  captivity,  by  seizing  her  by  a  lock  of  hair, 
and  conjuring  her  in  the  name  of  her  master  Demogorgon. 
She  thus  became  a  well-known  character  in  Italy,  where 
the  appellation  of  Fata  Morgana  is  given  to  that  strange 
and  almost  incredible  vision  which,  in  certain  states  of  the 
tide  and  weather,  appears  on  the  sea  that  washes  the  coast 
of  Calabria.  Every  object  at  Reggio  is  then  a  thousand 
times  reflected  on  a  marine  mirror,  or,  when  vapours  are 
thick,  on  a  species  of  aerial  skreen,  elevated  above  the  sur- 
face of  the  water,  on  which  the  groves  and  hills  and  towers 
are  represented  as  in  a  moving  picture.  (Swinburne's 
Travels,  v.  i.  p.  365.  Houel,  Voyage  Pittoresque  des  Isles 
de  Sicile,  &c.  v.  ii.  p.  2.-) 

^  Hist.  Poet.  1871,  vol.  ii.  p.  118,  etc.  The  only  MS.  exhibiting  the 
story  of  Balin  and  Balan,  in  Malory's  "  Morte  Arthur,"  belonged  to 
Mr.  Henry  Huth,  and  is  understood  to  be  in  preparation  for  publication. 

■^  Morgana  is  the  Breton  equivalent  of  sea- woman  (Mo)',  sea,  and  gwe?i 
splendens  foemina).  See  Grimm,  Teutonic  Mythology,  pp.  641,  412,  820. 
Villemarque,  on  the  other  hand  (Contes  populaires,  etc.  ii.  127,  Note  ix. 
and  p.  39),  explains  that  Morgan  Hud  is  Arthur's  head  physician.  "  Ce 
personnage,  dont  les  traditions  celtiques  et,  d'apres  elles  tons  les 
romanciers  de  I'Europe  au  moyen  age,  ont  raconte  I'histoire  sur  tous  les 
tons,  semble  apparaitre  ici  sous  son  jour  veritable.  Son  nom  qui  peut 
s'appliquer  aux  etres  des  deux  sexes,  aide  a  comprendre par  quelle  meprise 
les  chanteurs  populaires bretons,et  leurs  imitateurs,en  ont  fait  une  femme : 


CH.  III.]  LANCELOT    DU    LAC.  187 

We  heave  now  discussed  the  romances  which  have  been 
considered  as  relating  more  particularly  to  the  matter  of 
the  Sangreal.  The  family  history  of  the  princes  of  Leon- 
noys,  which  is  comprised  in  the  romances  of  Meliadus  and 
Tristan,  who  were  knights  of  the  Round  Table,  and  con- 
temj^orary  with  Arthur,  and  of  their  descendant  Isaiii  le 
Triste,  is  next  to  be  considered. 

The  country  of  Leonais,  or  Leonnoys,  of  which  Meliadus 
was  king,  and  which  was  the  birth-place  of  Tristan,  though 
once  contiguous  to  Cornwall,  has  now  disappeared,  and  is 
said  to  be  more  than  forty  fathoms  under  water.  An  ac- 
count of  it  has  been  fished  up  by  Carew  in  his  Survey  of 
Cornwall,  and  has  been  quoted  in  the  notes  to  Way's 
Fabliaux  [vol.  ii.  p.  179]  : — "The  sea  gradually  encroach- 
ing on  the  shore  hath  ravined  from  Cornwall  the  whole 
tract  of  country  called  Lionnesse,^  together  with  divers 
other  i^arcels  of  no  little  circuite  ;  and  that  such  a  country 
as  Lionnesse  there  was,  these  proofs  are  yet  remaining. 
The  space  between  the  Lands-End  and  the  isles  of  Scilly, 
being  about  thirteen  miles,  to  this  day  retaineth  that  name, 
in  Cornish  Lethowsow,  and  carrieth  continually  an  equal 
depth  of  40  or  60  fathom,  (a  thing  not  usual  in  the  seas 
proper  dominion,)  save  that  about  the  midway  there  lieth 
a  rocke,  which  at  low  water  discovereth  its  head.  They 
term   it  the    gulphe,   suiting  thereby  the  other  name  of 

le  sobriquet  de  Hud  {i?idusirietcx,  par  extensioTi  enchant  cur  et  ejichantcresse) 
qui  repond  exactement  au  mot  fae,  fee,  dans  la  langue  romane  "  ("  En 
celuj  temps  estait  appele/ae  cil  qui  s'entremettoit  d'enchantements  . .  . 
et  moult  en  estoient  pour  lors  principalement  en  la  Grand'  Bretaigne." — 
lioman  de  Lancelot  du  Lac),  joint  a  sa  qualite  de  medecin,  explique 
I'origine  de  sa  renommee  fabuleuse,  etc. — Lieu. 

^  According  to  an  extract  from  Perceforest  contained  in  the  Marquis 
d'Argenson'fc.  ''Melanges  tires  d'une  grande  Bibliotheque,"'  xii.  p.  144, 
the  kingdom  of  Leonnoys  received  its  name  from  the  brilliant  tourna- 
ments of  Perceforest,  where  Lyonnel  of  Glar  was  king  of  the  mysterious 
dominion  of  the  magician  Darnant.  In  the  romance  of  Perceforest 
itself,  however,  iv.  fol.  6,  Perceforest  says  merely,  "I  give  you  herewith 
the  whole  of  the  counti-y  which  Darnant  the  magician  possessed,  and 
which  I  formerly  conquered,  and  I  will  that  it  belong  to  your  kingdom, 
■which  shall,  in  honour  of  your  name,  be  called  the  Kingdom  Lyonnel.'' 
Another  passage  in  Perceforest  (iii.  c.  16  end,  fol.  37)  reads:  "It  was 
called  the  kingdom  of  Lyonnel  because  that  was  the  name  of  its  first 
king,  and  it  passed  from  heir  to  heir  until  Meliadus  became  its  king." 
—Schmidt,  Wiener  Jahrbuch,  Bd.  29,  p.  98. 


188  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Scilla.     Fishermen  also,  casting  their  hooks  thereabouts, 
have  drawn  up  pieces  of  doors  and  windows." 

Of  the  romances  relating  to  the  heroes  of  the  country 
which  has  been  thus  overflowed,  the  first  in  the  order  of 
events,  thousrh  not  the  earliest  written,  is 


Meliadtjs  of  Leonnoys,^ 

which  was  printed  at  Paris  1528.  Eusticien  de  Pise,  the 
original  author  of  this  romance,  commences  his  prologue 
bj  returning  thanks  to  the  Trinity,  for  having  enabled 
him  to  finish  the  Romance  of  Brut,  and  to  have  thus  ac- 
quired the  favour  of  King  Henry  of  England,  whom  his 
work  had  so  greatly  pleased  that  he  had  ordered  him  to 
write  another  of  the  same  sort,  because  his  former  one  had 
not   comprehended  every  thing  relating   to   the  subject." 

*  Meliadus  de  Leonnoys.  Ou  present  volume  sont  eontenus  les  nobles 
faicts  d'armes  du  vaillant  Roy  Meliadus  de  Leonnoys.  Ensemble  plu- 
sieurs  autres  nobles  proesses  de  eheualerie  faictes  tant  par  le  roy  Artus, 
Falamedes,  le  Morhoult  dirlande,  le  bon  Chevalier  sus  paour,  Galehault 
le  Brun,  Segurades,  Galaad  que  autres  bons  chevaliers  estans  au  temps 
du  dit  roy  Meliadus. — Histoire  singuliere  et  recreative  nouvellement 
imprimee  a  Paris — Galliot  du  Pre.  1528.  Meliadus  and  Guiron  le 
Courtois  form  parts  of  the  Great  Romance  of  Palamedes,  by  Helie  de 
Borron. 

^  This  Prologue  (in  which  Bret,  that  is  Tristan,  has  been  transcribed 
Brut  by  Dunlop),  where  the  author  calls  himself  Helis  de  Borron,  was 
published  at  the  beginning  of  Meliadus  (Paris,  1528),  with  no  very  im- 
portant alteration,  and  in  the  prologue  of  the  publisher  (Galliot  da 
Pre),  this,  the  author's,  prologue  is  attributed  to  Rusticien  de  Pise. 
This  prologue  has  also  been  published  with  a  few  verbal  alterations,  by 
Paulin  Paris. — Manuscrits  Francois  (Paris,  1838),  ii.  pp.  346-351.  At 
the  end  of  it  M.  Paris  says  that  Palamedes  is  evidently  a  name  inserted 
by  mistake,  and  that  the  hero  of  the  romance,  in  its  original  entirety,  is 
the  mirror  of  "  Cortoisie,"  Guiron  le  Courtois  ;  and  accordingly  he 
always  describes  it  under  that  name.  Still  there  is  some  other  evidence 
that  the  original  romance  was  known  as  Palamedes,  for  it  was  probably 
to  this  that  the  emix-ror  Frederick  II,  referred  in  his  letter  of  thanks  to 
the  Segreto  of  Messina,  for  sending  him  a  book  that  had  formerly  be- 
longed to  one  Johannes  Romanzorius.  His  letter  is  dated  5  th  February, 
1240,  and  runs  thus :  "  De  Liv.  quaternis  scriptis  de  libro  Palamidis  qui 
fuerunt  quondam  magistri  Johannis  Romanzori,  quos  nobis  per  notarium 
Symonem  de  Potramajore  mictere  te  scripsisti,  gratum  ducimus  et 
acceptum."  See  Hist.  Dipl.  Frid  II*"',  edited  by  Huillard-Breholles, 
tom.  V.  (Paris,  1859),  p.  722.     Gyron  le  Courtoys  is  the  name  given  to  a 


CH.  III.]  MELIADUS    OF    LEONNOTS.  189 

"  111  this  book,  therefore,"  says  he,  "  will  be  contained  what- 
ever is  wanting  in  Brut,  and  the  other  works  extracted 
from  the  matter  of  the  Sangreal."  After  this  formidable 
declaration,  in  order  to  give  an  appearance  of  authenticity 
to  his  fables,  he  talks  of  his  labour  in  translating  from  the 
Latin  ;  he  also  dwells  with  much  complacency  on  his  writ- 
ings, and  informs  us  that  he  had  received  two  castles  from 
King  Henry  as  a  reward  for  them.  He  then  declines 
interfering  with  the  adventures  of  Lancelot,  as  Gualtier 
Map  had  said  enough  of  them  ;  or  of  Tristan,  as  he  himself 
had  treated  that  subject  in  the  Brut.  King  Henry  having 
shown  a  predilection  for  Palamedes,  who,  we  shall  find,  is 
a  principal  character  in  the  romance  of  Meliadus,^  Rusticien 
wisely  resolved  to  gratify  the  humour  of  a  monarch,  who 
remunerated  the  compilation  of  old  wives'  tales  with  a 
couple  of  castles. 

This  prodigal  monarch  must  have  been  Henry  III.,  for 
Rusticien  informs  us  in  his  Gyron  the  Courteous,  that  the 
romance  of  that  name  was  compiled  from  the  book  of  his 
Lord  Edward,  when  he  went  to  the  Holy  Wars.  It  is 
evident  this  was  Edward  the  First,  who  embarked  for 
Palestine  in  1270,  during  the  life-time  of  his  father 
Henry  III.  ISTow,  if  Rusticien  compiled  from  a  book  be- 
longing to  Edward  I.,  his  existence  could  not  have  com- 
menced in  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  who  died  in  1189,  nor 

separate  romance  (published  by  Verard,  Paris,  about  1501),  and  there 
attributed  to  the  same  Rusticien.  Paulin  Paris  (vol.  ii.  pp.  355-360 
and  vol.  iii.  pp.  56-61  and  p.  64  of  his  Manuscrits  Francois,  Paris,  18'38) 
has  given  some  account  of  Husticien  de  Pise,  from  whose  Arthurian  C(jm- 
pilations  both  these  printed  romances,  the  Meliadus  and  the  Gyron,  were 
drawn.  Kusticien  himself  informs  us,  in  a  passage  printed  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Gyron,  that  he  had  been  engaged  upon  what  he  terms 
"  translating  "  a  great  book  of  romances  belonging  to  Edward  I.  of  Eng- 
land, whilst  he  (at  that  time  only  prince),  was  absent  in  the  Holy  Land, 
that  is,  in  1271-72.  Paulin  Paris  has  printed  the  words  of  Kusticien 
more  fully  (vol.  ii.  p.  356),  and  from  these,  and  the  work  to  whicli  they 
form  the  preamble,  it  appears  that  this  "translation"  was,  in  fact,  a 
compilation  of  several  Arthurian  Komances,  especially  the  Quest  of  the 
Saint  Graal,  the  Tristram,  and  the  Palamedes  (or  Guirun  le  Courtois). 
Subsequent  copyists,  sa^'s  M.  Paris  (iii.  p.  64),  picked  out  individual  ad- 
ventures of  this  or  that  hero,  and  hence  were  derived  the  printed  Guiron 
and  Meliadus. — Ward,  Cat.  of  Komances,  i.  pp.  366-7. 

^  In  spite  of  which  he  is  not  mentioned  in  the  absti'act  which  follows, 
and  but  little  in  the  original  romance. 


190  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

could  it  have  been  protracted  to  the  accession  of  Henry  lY,, 
who  succeeded  in  1399. 

The  prologue  of  Rusticien  is  the  only  part  of  the  com- 
position which  has  reached  us  in  its  original  form,  and  the 
romance  of  Meliadus  is  now  only  extant  as  corrected  by  a 
more  modern  author,  who  must  nevertheless  have  lived  at 
a  very  remote  period.  It  is  this  Bedacteur,  as  he  is  termed, 
who  acquaints  us  in  his  preface  that  Eusticien  de  Pise  was 
the  name  of  his  predecessor.  He  also  informs  us,  that  he 
himself  laboured  by  order  of  Edward  King  of  England ; 
but  what  Edward  he  has  left  to  conjecture,  which  has  fixed 
on  the  fourth  monarch  of  that  name.  He  bestows  much 
commendation  on  the  original  author,  but  complains 
bitterly  of  his  not  having  been  sufficiently  explicit  on  the 
subject  of  his  hero's  genealogy.  This  deficiency  it  was 
then  fortunately  too  late  to  supply,  so  that  the  romance, 
at  least  in  its  corrected  form,  begins  with  the  adventures 
which  happened  in  England  to  two  Babylonish  hostages, 
who  had  been  sent  by  their  own  monarch  to  Rome,  and 
had  been  allowed  by  the  emperor  to  pass  on  their  parole 
into  Britain.  They  visited  Arthur  at  Kamalot  (Win- 
chester), which  was  his  chief  city  next  to  London,  and  his 
favoiirite  residence,  on  account  of  the  fine  rivers  and  woods 
by  which  it  was  surrounded.  Some  curious  delineations 
are  given  in  this  part  of  the  romance  concerning  the 
manners  of  the  court,  and  form  of  the  government  of  this 
fabulous  monarch. 

During  the  stay  of  the  Babylonians  at  the  court  of 
Arthur,  a  romantic  story  occurs  of  a  knight  who  arrives 
incognito  in  a  vessel,  and  defies  all  the  companions  of  the 
Eound  Table,  but  is  severely  wounded  in  a  combat  with 
one  of  their  number.  Arthur  receives  this  unknown  knight 
in  his  palace,  and  treats  him  with  kindness,  even  after  he 
discovers  that  the  stranger  is  Pharamond,  King  of  the 
Pranks,  his  mortal  enemy. 

Being  cured  of  his  wounds,  the  Prench  king  embarks 
for  his  own  country ; — he  sails  down  a  stream,  and  enjoys 
a  favourable  breeze  till  he  comes  to  the  mouth  of  the  river. 
There  a  storm  arising,  he  lands  and  reposes  himself  by  the 
side  of  a  fountain,  which  was  surrounded  by  a  grove  of 
pines,    and   where   the   grass   was   green  and   abundant. 


CH.  III.]  MELIADUS    OF    LEONNOYS.  191 

When  refreshed,  he  sends  to  demand  joust  from  Trarsin, 
the  lord  of  the  territory,  a  brave  but  felonious  knight. 
This  adversary  he  speedily  overthrows  ;  but  afterwards 
encounters  Morhault,  or  Morhoult,  of  Ireland,  a  celebrated 
character  in  the  romances  of  the  Round  Tal)le,  and  by 
him  he  is  in  turn  defeated.  After  the  combat,  these  op- 
ponents, who  were  unknown  to  each  other,  mutually  re- 
count their  adventures  ;  and,  Avhile  thus  engaged,  a  damsel 
arrives  to  inform  Morhoult  that  her  lady,  who  was  the 
wife  of  Trarsin,  and  the  most  beautiful  woman  in  the 
kingdom,  expected  him  to  an  interview.  This,  however, 
was  a  snare  laid  by  the  husband,  who  had  suspected  his 
wife's  fidelity,  and  had  bribed  the  damsel  to  bring  Mor- 
hoult into  his  power.  A  punishment  is  prepared  for  the 
lovers,  which  seems  to  have  suggested  to  Tasso  the  situation 
in  which  he  places  Olindo  and  Sophrouia,  in  the  2nd  canto 
of  the  Jerusalem.  Brehus,  who  afterwards  received  the 
surname  of  Pitiless,  attempts  to  rescue  the  lovers,  but  in 
vain.  After  his  failure  in  this  trial,  while  ranging  through 
a  forest  he  meet  Yvain,  the  nephew  of  Arthur,  with  a  lady 
in  his  company/  Brehus  kills  the  lady,  owing  to  the 
hatred  he  had  conceived  against  the  fair  sex,  on  account 
of  the  damsel  who  had  betrayed  Morhoult.  A  combat 
ensues  between  Brehus  and  Yvain,  who  could  not  be  per- 
suaded of  the  justice  of  this  retaliation.  When  both  are 
nearly  exhausted  with  fighting,  the  Knight  without  Fear 
arrives  on  the  spot,  and  accompanied  by  Brehus  again 
proceeds  to  attempt  the  rescue  of  Morhoult.  This  is  at 
length  effected,  and  Morhoult  carries  off  the  lady  from 
Trarsin  ;  but,  when  he  has  travelled  a  short  way,  he  is 
met  and  vanquished  by  Meliadus,  who  restores  the  lady  to 
her  husband,  after  exacting  a  promise  that  he  would  use 
her  well  for  the  future,  and  cease  to  interrupt  her 
gallantries. 

This  is  the  first  appearance  of  the  hero  of  the  romance, 
though  the  preceding  part  occupies  29  chapters  of  the  173, 
which  constitute  the  whole  work.  Meliadus  again  vanishes, 
and  we  hear  little  more  of  him  till  the  43rd  chapter.  The 
intervening  sections  are  chiefly  filled  with  the  exploits  of 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  5. 


192  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Morlioult  and  of  tlie  Kniglit  without  Fear.  Afterwai'ds, 
however,  Meliadus  enters  on  a  long  series  of  adventures, 
chiefly  warlike,  of  which  the  principal  is  the  deliverance  of 
Arthur  and  his  companions  from  the  castle  of  the  rock. 
At  the  end  of  twenty  chapters,  entirely  occupied  with 
"■  tournaments  and  trophies  hung,"  the  reader  is  pleased, 
though  it  redounds  little  to  the  honour  of  the  hero,  to  find 
a  love  story,  which  the  author  has  introduced  at  the  65th 
chapter.  Meliadus,  in  the  course  of  his  wanderings,  meets 
with  the  queen  of  Scotland  in  a  castle,  where  he  was  enter- 
tained, and  becomes  deeply  enamoured  of  her.  He  returns 
to  his  own  country  in  a  languishing  state  of  health,  and 
imparts  the  story  of  his  love  to  one  of  his  knights,  who 
undertakes  to  acquaint  the  queen  with  his  passion,  and  to 
repeat  to  her  a  lay  which  his  master  had  written,  expressive 
of  his  sentiments.  Meliadus  afterwards  prosecutes  his 
suit  personally,  with  the  utmost  success,  at  the  court  of 
Arthur,  where  his  mistress  then  resided,  till  the  king  of 
Scotland  being  informed  of  the  intrigue,  surprises  MeHadus 
with  his  queen  ;  but  jDromises  him, — qu'il  ne  feroit  aucun 
mal  a  la  reine  jDOur  chose  qu'il  eut  vue.  The  king  con- 
siders it  prudent,  however,  to  depart  from  court  with  his 
consort ;  but  on  his  way  to  Scotland  he  is  overtaken  by 
Meliadus,  and  the  queen  is  carried  off.  On  account  of  this 
outrage,  Arthur  declares  war  against  Meliadus.  This 
prince,  in  consequence,  retires  to  his  own  states,  whence 
he  describes  his  situation,  and  demands  aid  from  Phara- 
mond,  in  a  poetical  epistle,  and  is  promised  assistance,  in  a 
similar  form.  A  long  account  is  given  of  the  contest 
carried  on  in  Leonnoys ;  Meliadus  is  taken  prisoner,  and 
the  war  concludes,  in  the  106th  chapter,  with  the  surrender 
of  his  capital,  and  re-delivery  of  the  queen  of  Scotland  to 
her  husband.  Meliadus  amuses  himself,  while  in  confine- 
ment, with  playing  on  the  harp,  and  composing  songs, 
particularly  a  lay,  entitled,  Dueil  sur  Dueil,  which,  the 
romance  informs  us,  was  the  second  that  ever  was  written. 
He  is  allowed  to  solace  himself  in  this  manner  till  Arthur, 
being  attacked  by  the  Saxons,  frees  him  from  prison,  in 
order  to  avail  himself  of  his  assistance  in  his  contest  with 
these  enemies,  which  is,  at  length,  terminated  by  Meliadus 
overthrowing  Ariohan,  the  Saxon  chief,  in  single  combat. 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  193 

In  more  recfular  works  of  fiction,  the  late  appearance  of 
•the  hero  would,  no  doubt,  be  considered  as  a  blemish ;  but 
in  few  of  the  ancient  romances  of  chivalry  is  unity  of 
action  and  interest,  or  any  other  rule  of  art,  accurately 
attended  to.  Meliadus  is  destitute,  however,  of  the  principal 
charm  of  works  of  this  nature, — a  variety  of  enchantments, 
of  giants,  and  of  monsters,  which  are  the  only  embellish- 
ments that  can  compensate  for  the  want  of  regularity  and 
breach  of  the  laws  of  composition.  The  knights  in  Meliadus 
wander  for  ever  amid  gloomy  forests,  and  there  is  more  of 
the  sombre  mythology  of  the  north,  with  less  eastern 
splendour  and  imagination,  than  in  almost  any  of  the  tales 
of  chivalry.^ 

Towards  the  conclusion,  the  romance  is  occupied  with 
the  exploits  of  the  son  of  Meliadus,  whose  adventures  form 
the  subject  of  a  separate  romance,  called 

Tristan,^ 

from  the  name  of  its  hero.  Tliis  composition  has  been  the 
most  popular  of  all  the  romances  of  the  Round  Table,  and 
is  considered  as  the  work  which  best  characterizes  the 
ancient  sj^irit  of  French  chivalry.  It  was  first  printed  at 
Rouen,  1489,  one  volume  folio  ;  afterwards  in  two  volumes 
folio  at  Paris,  by  Verard,  without  date,  and  again  at  the 
same  place  in  1522  and  1569.  The  date  of  its  composi- 
tion, however,  is  much  earlier  than  that  of  its  first 
publication. 

The  story  of  Tristan  seems  to  have  been  current  from 
the  earliest  times.  It  was  the  subject  of  a  number  of 
metrical  tales  in  the  romance  language,  which  were  versi- 
fied by  the  French  minstrels  from  ancient  British  authori- 
ties. From  these  original  documents,  or  from  the  French 
metrical  tales,  was  compiled  the  Sir  Tristrem,  attributed  to 
Thomas  of  Erceldoune,  and  which  has  been  edited  by  Mr. 

^  I?especting  another  romance  of  Meliadus,  entitled  Meliadus  Cheva- 
lier de  la  Croix,  see  Graesse's  Litterargeschichte,  vol.  ii.,  Abth.  iii.  p.  21 1 . 
It  is  there  spoken  of  as  "  halb  mystichen." — H.  Jenner. 

^  Koman  du  tres  vaillant  noble  et  excellent  cheualier  Tristan,  fils 
du  noble  Koi  Meliadus  de  Leonnoys,  .  .  .  par  Luce  Chevalier,  Seigneur 
do  Chasteau  de  Gast.     Kouen,  1498,  2  pts.     See  infra,  p.  207. 

I.  O 


194  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

[Sir  Walter]  Scott.  There  are  also  extant  two  fragments 
of  metrical  versions,  wMcli  are  supposed  to  be  parts  of  one 
wliole  work,  written  by  Raoul  de  Beauvais,  wlio  lived  in 
the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century.  But  the  immediate 
original  of  the  prose  Tristan  is  understood  to  be  the  his- 
tory of  Mark  and  Yseult,  written  in  verse  by  Chrestien  de 
Troyes,  who  flourished  early  in  the  twelfth  century.  The 
MSS.  of  this  work  have  not  reached  us,  and  the  prose  com- 
position of  which  it  is  the  original  is  of  a  date  long  poste- 
rior. Mr.  Scott  believes  that  the  author  of  the  prose  Tris- 
tan is  the  same  with  the  earliest  writer  of  Meliadus,  who 
was  certainly  Rusticien  de  Pise,  and  who  lived  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  III.^     The  author  of  Tristan,  however,  informs 

^  Helie  de  Borron,  the  author  of  the  original  Palamedes,  and,  there- 
fore, author  of  the  Meliadus,  completed  the  unfinished  Tristan  of  Luces 
de  Gast,  and  hence  Scott's  view  is  partly  right.  See  Paulin  Paris's 
"  Manuscrits  Fran^ais,"  etc.,  i.  137,  where  the  epilogue  of  H.  de  Borron 
is  quoted  from  MS,  6776,  in  the  Bibliotheque  Du  Roi  (now  Bibliotheque 
Nationale)  at  Paris. 

The  poet,  who  has  done  most  to  immortalize  the  theme  of  Tristan  and 
Isolde,  is  Gottfried  of  Strasbwg,  who  lived  in  the  earl}^  part  of  the  thir- 
teenth century.  He  declares  that  he  had  found  difficulty  in  obtaining  an 
authentic  copy  of  the  Romance,  on  account  of  the  number  and  vax'iety  of 
versions  of  the  work ;  but  had  found  in  the  course  of  his  reading  a 
large  number  of  foreign  (Walschen)  and  Latin  compositions,  that 
Thomas  von  Britanie,  who  was  very  conversant  with  the  hritunsche7i 
huchen,  had  related  the  story  accurately.  Southey  (p.  liii  of  his  Intro- 
duction to  Morte  Arthur)  identifies  this  Thomas  with  Thomas  the 
Rymer,  of  Erceldoun,  the  supposed  author  of  the  Auchinleck  MS.  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  published  by  Sir  Walter  Scott.  It  is,  however,  by 
no  means  clear  who  Thomas  von  Britanie  was,  or  in  what  language,  or 
at  what  time  he  wrote.  Not  improbably  he  may  be  the  author  of 
various  detached  .fragments  of  an  early  French  metrical  Tristan  which 
exists  in  various  libraries,  and  is  the  original  which  Thomas  of  Erceldoun 
followed.  The  existence  of  early  Scandinavian  Aversions  of  the  Romance 
which  agree  with  the  Auchinleck  MS.  would  favour  this  hj'pothesis. 
Chrestien  de  Troyes  says  himself  at  the  commencement  of  his  Cliges 
that  he  had  written  the  Romance,  Dou  roi  Marc  et  d'lseut  la  Blonde. 
The  poem,  however,  has  disappeared,  though  there  ai'e  extant  various 
fragments  of  a  Romance  of  Tristan,  which  ma}'  have  formed  part  of  it. 
F.  Michel  has  carefully  collected  the  various  passages  in  the  chansons  of 
the  troubadours  which  mention  the  story  of  Tristan.  The  earliest  is 
that  in  a  poem  by  Rambaud,  Count  of  Orange,  about  the  middle  of  the 
twelfth  century.  He  gives  no  fewer  than  thirteen  other  Provencal  poets 
who  refer  to  the  subject,  as  well  as  numerous  allusions  in  early  English 
poems.  For  further  information  on  the  history  of  the  Romance  we  may 
refer  the  reader  to  F.  Michel's  "  The  Poetical  Romances  of  Tristan," 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  195 

US  at  the  beginning  of  the  romance,  that  he  is  Luce 
Seigneur  de  G-ast :  "  I,  Luce  Seigneur  de  Gast  have  compiled 
the  authentic  history  of  Tristan;  who,  next  to  Lancelot 
and  Galaad,  was  the  most  renowned  knight  of  the  Round 
Table."  Mr.  Wartou  ^  attributes  it  to  the  same  author,  on 
the  authority  of  a  title-i^ge,  in  a  MS.  copy  of  the  romance 
— Le  Roman  de  Ti'istan  et  Iseult  traduit  de  Latin  en 
Francois,  par  Lucas  Chevalier  du  Gast,  pres  de  Sarisberi, 
Anglois.  In  the  preface  to  Mehadus,  we  are  infomied 
that  it  was  begun  by  this  Lucas  de  Gast,  or  Lucas  de  lau, 
as  he  is  there  called,  the  first  who  extracted  from  the 
matter  of  the  St.  Greal ;  that  Gasse  le  Blond  next  wrote 
the  part  which  relates  to  Lancelot,  after  which  the  story 
was  concluded  by  Robert  and  Helie  de  Borron."     "  Aussi 

London,  1835;  also  to  Villemarque's  "Les  Romans  de  la  Table  Ronde," 
etc.,  Paris,  1861  (p.  72,  where  the  author  gives  great  prominence  to  the 
undoubted  early  Celtic  elements  of  the  story) ;  Sir  Walter  Scott's  intro- 
duction to  his  edition  of  the  Auchinleck  MS. ;  Ten  Brink's  "  Geschichte 
der  Englischen  Literatur,"  i.  p.  298,  and  Eugen  Kolbing's  "  Die 
nordische  und  die  Englische  version  der  Tristan-Sage,"  Heilbronn, 
1878-83.  The  very  favour  in  which  this  romance  was  held,  and  its 
consequent  wide  diffusion  is,  i^erhaps,  a  reason  why  there  have  been 
fewer  imitations  of  it  than  of  many  other  romances. 

^  Vol.  i.  p.  118,  ed.  1824. 

-  A  translation  of  the  French  romance  appeared  in  Spain  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  sixteenth  century,  and  is  mentioned  by  Don  Quixote. 
Cervantes  himself,  in  all  probability,  owed  to  the  old  Celtic  legend  the 
hero  of  his  immortal  satire  on  the  romances  of  Chivalry,  for  the 
corrupted  form  Tristrcm,  which  was  commonly  derived  from  the  Welsh 
words  trist  (sad)  and  trcm  (a  face),  exactly  answers  to  the  Knight  of 
Woeful  Countenance.  Cf.  also  Irish  dreac  (visage)  and  trom  (sad).  The 
other  English  form  Tristram  is  explained  in  the  romance  as  follows : 
"  When  he  is  christened  let  call  him  Tristram,  that  is  as  much  as  to  say 
as  a  sorrowful  birth"  (Morte  Arthur,  bk.  vii.).  Ferguson,  in  his  work, 
The  Teutonic  Name  System,  is  equally  at  fault  when  he  suggests  that 
Tristram  may  be  derived  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  th'ist  (bold,  daring)  and 
ram  (a  raven).  F.  Michel  in  his  notes  (vol.  i.  p.  xii)  gives  :  ''  Trist, 
sad,  Tristys  and  Tristans,  sorrow,"  from  a  Cornish-English  vocabulary ; 
*'  Trysian  (trust),  a  noisy  one,  a  blusterer.  Trist  (ty-rhist),  pensive,  sad," 
from  Owen's  "  Welsh  Dictionary ; "  "  Trist,  Tuirseach,  sad,  weary," 
from  an  Irish-English  Dictionary;  "  7>^5,  Trus,  sad,"  etc.  Davies 
(Mythology  and  Kites  of  the  British  Druids.  Lond.,  1809,  pp.  439,  440) 
gives  Trystan  in  the  Triads  the  meaning  of  "herald."  E.  T.  Leith 
(On  the  Legend  of  Tristan,  Bombay,  1868)  says  Essyllt  (Ysolt)  has 
been  identified  with  the  old  Gaulish  Adsalluta  (in  Henzen,  Nos.  5864, 
5911),  ibid.,  p.  33. 


196  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Luces  de  lau  translata,  en  langue  Francoise,  une  partie  de 
THystoire  de  Monseigneur  Tristan,  et  moins  assez  que  il  ne 
deust.  Moult  commenca  bien  son  livre,  et  si  ny  mist  tous 
les  faicts  de  Tristan,  ains  la  greigneur  partie.  Apres  s'en 
entremist  Messire  Gasse  le  Blonc  qui  estoit  parent  au  Eoy 
Henri,  et  devisa  I'Hystoire  de  Lancelot  du  Lac,  et  d'autre 
chose  ne  parla  il  mye  grandement  en  son  livre.  Messire 
Robert  de  Borron  s'en  entremist,  et  Helye  de  Borron  par 
la  priere  du  dit  Robert  de  Borron ;  et  pour  ce  que  com- 
paignons  feusmes  d'armes  longuement  Je  commencay  mon 
livre,"  &c.  It  was  formerly  shown  that  Eusticien  de  Pise, 
by  whom  this  preface  to  Meliadus  was  written,  lived  in  the 
reigns  of  Henry  III.  and  Edward  L,  since  he  talks  of  the 
expedition  of  the  latter  to  the  Holy  Land.  Now,  since 
Kusticien  mentions  Robert  and  Helye  de  Borron,  by  whom 
Tristan  was  completed,  as  his  contemporaries,  that  cele- 
brated romance  could  not  have  been  finished  before  the 
reign  of  Henry  ILL.  Indeed,  in  the  MS.  of  Helye  de 
Borron' s  portion  of  the  work,  entitled  La  Mort  de  Tristan, 
it  is  said  to  have  been  written  at  the  desire  of  Henry  III. 

The  early  part  of  the  prose  romance  of  Tristan  is  occu- 
pied with  an  account  of  the  ancestors  of  the  hero,  and 
many  generations  pass  successively  in  review  before  the 
birth  of  Meliadus.  This  prince  was  married  to  Isabella, 
sister  of  Marc,^  king  of  Cornwall ; — a  fairy  fell  in  love  with 
him,  and  drew  him  away  by  enchantment,  while  he  was 
engaged  in  the  exercise  of  hunting.     His  queen  set  out  in 

^  M.  F.  Michel,  Poet.  Rom.  Tristan,  vol.  i.  p.  cxiv,  gives  a  number  of 
authorities  from  Pausanias  (x.  19,  6)  downwards,  showing  March  or  Marc 
to  have  in  Welsh  the  signification  of  horse,  Anglo-Saxon  =  Mearh,  equus, 
Meare,  equa,  English  mare.  King  Marc  takes  in  respect  of  his  horses' 
ears  the  place  of  Midas  in  classic  tale.  See  Villemarque,  Contes  popu- 
laires,  i.  82,  99,  etc.  Sir  W.  Scott's  introduction  to  Sir  Tristram, 
Jakob  Grimm  in  the  Gottingen  Gelehrte,  Anzeiger,  1824,  st.  12,  p.  118. 
In  the  life  of  St.  Paul  de  Leon,  born  about  the  end  of  the  fifth  century, 
is  this  passage:  "Rex  quidam  Marcus  nomine,  in  vicino  (Scil.  Cornubia 
vel  Cambi'ia)  florebat  eodem  tempore,  cujus. imperii  dominatus  leges 
dabat  quatuor  gentibus,  linguarum  famine  dissidentibus."  St.  Paul  con- 
verted this  king,  Acta  SSorum,  12  March,  torn.  ii.  p.  114,  quoted  by 
M.  F.  Michel,  p.  lii  of  his  first  volume.  ^^ 

Tristan  seems  to  have  been  recognized  gefl^ally  as  a  patron  of  the 
chase,  as  appears  from  the  numerous  allusions  to  him  in  this  sense  in  old 
English  works  on  Venery,  many  of  which  are  given  by  M.  Michel. 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  197 

quest  of  him,  but  was  seized  with  the  pains  of  child-birth 
during  her  journey,  and  expired  soon  after  being  dehvered 
of  a  son,  whom,  from  the  melancholy  circumstances  of  his 
birth,  she  called  Tristan  before  her  death.^ 

^  The  story  of  Tristan's  birth  and  childhood  belongs  to  the  widely- 
spread  myth  of  the  royal  Foundling,  who  is  secretly  nurtured  and  after- 
wards happily  reinstated  in  his  rights.     See  Appendix. 

Trystan.  son  of  Talhvch,  was  a  celebrated  leader,  who  lived  about  the 
middle  of  the  sixth  centur\'.  He  was,  with  Griediol  and  Gwgon,  one  of 
the  three  heralds  of  Britain  ;  Trystan,  with  Gwair  and  Kai,  was  called 
one  of  the  three  crowned  princes.  With  Coll  and  Pryderi,  he  was  one  of 
the  three  powerful  swineherds  from  whom  the  expedition  of  Arthur, 
Marc,  Kai,  and  Bedwyr  failed  to  procure,  whether  by  gift  or  purchase, 
fraud  or  force,  so  much  as  a  single  pig.  He  was  one  of  the  three  desig- 
nated obstinate  chieftains,  whom  it  was  impossible  to  divert  from  their 
projects,  and  one  of  the  three  faithful  lovers  on  account  of  his  attach- 
ment to  Esyllt,  wife  of  his  uncle  March.  See  F.  Michel,  The  Poetical 
Eomances  of  Tristan,  xlviii-li. 

The  incidents  in  the  Tristan  story,  concludes  Mone  (Ueber  die  Sage 
von  Tristan,  etc.,  Heidelberg,  1822,  p.  20),  have  the  same  character  of 
original  traditions  as  are  found  in  the  Triads,  the  Mabinogion,  and  other 
productions  of  the  Celtic  bards,  and  they  betray  a  common  ultimate 
fount  of  such  romantic  poems.  The  Mabinogion  and  similar  productions 
are  not  properly  speaking  history,  but  shed  a  faint  ray  where  history 
denies  her  light.  They  embody  sagas  from  remote  times,  when  Druid 
lore  still  numbered  many  friends,  and  in  this  respect  agi'ee  with  the  most 
genuine  records  of  the  ancient  British  faith. 

Thus  under  the  figure  of  the  three  powerful  swineherds  we  have  a 
reminiscence  of  the  earliest  religion  of  our  Celtic  ancestors,  which 
appears  to  have  been  a  corrupt  patriai-chal  form  of  worship,  combined 
with  a  strong  antagonism  to  Sabceism.  Coll  and  his  mystical  sow 
(mother  ?)  is  the  type  of  a  new  doctrine,  which  was  introduced  in  Corn- 
wall, and  thence  borne  to  Wales  and  Britain.  It  agreed  in  general  with 
the  older  creed,  but  comprised  a  worship  of  the  celestial  luminaries, 
and  represented  the  deified  patriarch  (Noah)  as  identical  with  the  sun. 
Tristan's  existence  represents  the  advance  of  this  heretical  belief,  which, 
with  foreign  admixture,  spread  over  a  great  part  of  Britain,  and  was 
even  accepted  in  Ireland,  though  its  earliest  and  centi'al  stronghold  was 
in  Cornwall.  Mone  maintains  further  that  the  faith  represented  by 
Tristan  was  of  Teutonic  character.  See  also  Sir  G.  W.  Cox's  "  Mytho- 
logy of  the  Aryan  Nations,"  pp.  96,  136  ;  and  the  same  writer's  '*  Intro- 
duction to  Comparative  ^lythology,"  Appendix  iii.  Leith  (p.  35)  con- 
siders ••  that  the  Tristan  legend  was  originally  an  Archaic  Aryan 
myth;  that  is,  it  was  carried  westwards  into  Britain  with  the  wave  of 
Celtic  migration ;  that  it  passed  at  a  very  early  period  from  thence  into 
Britany  ;  and  that  it  owed  its  preservation  there  mainly  to  the  fact  of 
that  province  being  the  last  resting-place  of  the  Celtic  language  in 
France.*' 

The  relations  which  exist  between  Tristram,  Isolte,  and  King  Marc 


198  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Gouvernail,  the  queen's  squire,  who  had  accompanied 
her,  took  charge  of  the  child,  and  restored  him  to  his  father, 
who  at  length  burst  the  enchantment  of  the  fairy,  and  re- 
turned to  his  caj)ital. 

A  dwarf  having  foreshown  to  Marc,  the  uncle  of  Tristan, 
that  he  would  be  dethroned  by  means  of  his  nephew,  this 
monarch  vowed  the  death  of  Tristan.  The  emissaries  he 
employed  surprised  and  slew  Meliadus  during  a  chace,  but 
Grouvernail  saved  his  son,  and  conveyed  him  to  the  court 
of  Pharamond,  As  the  young  prince  grew  up,  Belinda,  the 
daughter  of  this  French  monarch,  became  enamoured  of 
him  ;  but,  her  passion  being  discovered  by  her  father,  Tris- 
tan found  it  necessary  to  leave  the  court.  ^ 

precisely  reproduce  those  which  are  found  between  Sigurd,  Brynhild, 
and  Gunnar  in  the  Volsung  tale.  The  naked  sword  which  Sigurd 
places  between  himself  and  Brynhild,  when  he  lies  down  to  sleep  by  her 
side,  is  placed  again  by  Tristram  between  himself  and  Isolte,  and  is  used 
for  the  same  purpose  in  the  German  story  of  the  Two  Brothers,  the 
Norse  Legend  of  Big  Bii-d  Dan,  and  the  Arabian  Nights  tale  of  Allah- 
ud-deen.  These  instances  alone  suffice  to  prove  not  only  the  common 
origin  of  these  popular  stories,  but  their  nature,  and  to  justify  the 
remark  of  Sir  G.  Dasent,  that  "  these  mythical  deep-rooted  germs, 
throwing  out  fresh  shoots  from  age  to  age  in  the  popular  literature  of 
the  race,  are  far  more  convincing  proofs  of  the  early  existence  of  these 
traditions  than  any  mere  external  evidence." — Sir  G.  W.  Cox,  Introduc- 
tion to  Mythology  and  Folklore,  pp.  328,  329. 

^  Of  Camalot  orCamelot,  where Arthurchiefly  held  hiscovu*t,Caxton,in 
his  preface  to  Sir  T.  Malory's  "  Morte  Arthur,"  speaks  as  though  it  were 
in  Wales,  probably  meaning  Caerleon,  where  the  Roman  Amphitheatre 
is  still  called  Arthur's  Round  Table.  Malory  himself,  though  (bk.  ii.  ch.  1) 
he  seems  to  connect  Camelot  with  Avelion  or  Glastonbury,  yet  farther 
on  (bk.  ii.  ch.  19)  says  distinctly  that  Camelot  "  is  in  English  Win- 
chester," where,  too,  there  is  a  Round  Table,  mentioned  by  Caxtou,  and 
still  to  be  seen — an  oaken  board  with  the  knights'  names  on  it.  And 
yet  at  the  time  these  authorities  wrote  Camelot  itself  existed  in  Somer- 
setshire, with  its  proper  name,  and  with  all  the  remains  of  an  important 
town  and  fortress,  and  doubtless  the  traditions  of  Arthur,  which  Leland 
found  there,  and  which  in  great  part,  at  least,  remain  to  this  day. 
Leland  calls  it  Camallate,  or  Camalat,  "  sometime  a  famous  town  or 
castle,  upon  a  very  torre  or  hill,  wonderfully  erfstrengthened  of  nature  " 
(Itinerary,  ii.  pp.  38,  39  ;  ed.  Heme,  1711).  This  appeai-s  as  the  Castle  of 
Camellek  in  maps  of  the  dates  of  1575  and  1610,  and  in  that  of  vol.  iv., 
pub.  1727,  of  Camden's  "  Magna  Britannia,"  the  text  of  which  says, "  the 
inhabitants  call  it  King  Arthur's  Palace"  [p.  804].  But  soon  after  then  a 
learned  antiquarian  states  in  a  manuscript,  written  about  1736,  "that 
the  name  had  been  superseded  by  that  of  Cadbury  Castle.  .  .  .  The 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  199 

A  reconciliation  was  now  effected  between  Tristan  and  his 
uncle  Marc,  who,  at  this  time,  resided  at  the  castle  of  Tin- 
tagel,  rendered  famous  by  the  amour  of  Titer  and  Yguerne 
[supra,  p.  152].  In  this  court,  Tristan  became  expert  in  all 
the  exercises  incumbent  on  a  knight.  Nor  was  it  long  till  he 
had  an  opportunity  of  practically  exhibiting  his  valour  and 
skill.  The  celebrated  Morhoult  [Welsh,  Martholouc'h], 
brother  to  the  queen  of  Ireland,  arrived  to  demand  tribute 
from  Marc.  Tristan  encountered  this  champion,  who  was 
forced  to  fly  and  embark,  bearing  with  him  a  mortal  wound. 
This  was  the  first,  and  perhaps  the  most  glorious,  of  the 
exploits  of  Tristan ;  but  the  lance  of  Morhoult  had  been 
poisoned,  and  a  wound  his  opponent  had  received  grew 
daily  more  envenomed.  He  departed  from  Cornwall,  with 
the  view  of  finding  in  a  foreign  country  the  relief  which 
could  not  be  obtained  in  his  own.  A  breeze  of  fifteen 
days'  continuance  conveyed  him  to  the  coast  of  Ireland. 
He  was  ignorant  to  what  shore  he  had  been  carried,  for  he 
seems  to  have  steered  at  random  :  he  disembarked,  how- 
ever, on  this  unknown  country,  tuned  his  harp,  and  began 
to  play.  It  was  a  summer  evening,  and  the  king  of  Ire- 
land and  his  daughter,  the  beautiful  Yseult,  were  at  a 
window  which  overlooked  the  sea.  The  strange  harper 
was  conveyed  to  the  palace,  and  his  wounds  were  cured  by 
Yseult.  But  after  his  recovery  he  was  found  out,  from  the 
circumstance  of  wearing  the  sword  of  Morhoult,^  to  be  the 

neighbouring  villages  which,  according  to  Leland,  bore  the  name  of 
Camalat,  with  an  addition,  as  '  Queen-Camel/  still  exist  as  Queen- 
Camel,  or  East  Camel  and  West  Camel,  and  near  by  runs  the  river 
Camel,  crossed  by  Arthur's  Bridge,  while  Arthur's  Well  still  springs 
from  the  hill-side "  (Sii*  Edward  Strachey,  Introduction  to  Sir  T. 
Malory's  '*  Morte  Arthur,"  pp.  xi.,  xii.,  and  J.  S.  Glennie  Stuart's 
"  Essay  on  Arthurian  Localities,"  prefixed  to  the  edition  of  Merlin,  pub- 
lished by  the  Early  P^nglish  Text  Society,  1879,  p.  xxvi*).  The  author 
of  this  elaborate  and  erudite  dissertation  places  the  Arthur-land  in 
Scotland.  In  the  copy  of  the  "  Britannia  "  before  me  the  name  in  the 
map  is  '*  Camelek."        • 

^  This  sword  was  afterwards  conveyed  to  Italy,  according  to  the 
Chronicle  of  Galvano  Eiammi  (Muratori,  Ber.  Ital.  Script.,  xii.  col. 
1027e),  cited  by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  Tristram,  1819,  p.  298,  or  (according 
to  a  charter  published  by  Bymer,  2nd  edit.,  i.  pt.  1,  p.  99)  fell  into  the 
hands  of  John  of  Lackland.  (Bailey,  History  and  Antiquities  of  the 
Tower  of  London,  1825,  vol.  i.  p.  183.) 


200  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

l^erson  who  had  killed  that  knight,  and  was  in  consequence 
obliged  to  quit  the  country. 

On  his  return  to  Cornwall,  Tristan  fell  in  love  with  the 
wife  of  Segurades,  a  Cornish  nobleman,  and  followed  her 
into  the  dominions  of  Arthur,  whither  she  had  been  carried 
by  Bliomberis.  While  in  England  he  defeated  a  knight 
called  Blaanor,  who  had  accused  the  king  of  Ireland  of 
treason,  before  the  court  of  Arthur.  The  king  being  thus 
acquitted  of  the  charge,  Tristan,  at  his  request,  accom- 
panied him  to  Ireland,  where  he  finally  yielded  to  the 
solicitations  of  his  champion,  and  promised  to  bestow  his 
daughter  Yseult  in  marriage  on  the  king  of  Cornwall. 
The  mother  of  Yseult  gave  to  her  daughter's  confidant, 
Brangian,  an  amorous  potion,  to  be  administered  on  the 
night  of  her  nuptials.  Of  this  beverage,  Tristan  and 
Yseult,  during  their  voyage  to  Cornwall,  unfortunately 
partook.  Its  effects  were  quick  and  powerful :  nor  was  its 
influence  less  permanent  than  sudden  ;  but,  during  the  re- 
mainder of  their  lives,  regulated  the  affections  and  destiny 
of  the  lovers.  A  medical  potion,  producing  a  temporary 
love,  or  rather  ]3assion,  is  said  to  have  been  frequently 
composed  ;  but  the  power  of  the  beverage  quaffed  by  Tris- 
tan and  Yseult  was  not  believed  to  be  confined  to  its  im- 
mediate effects,  nor  to  derive  its  power  from  stimulating 
ingredients,  but  was  suj)posed  to  continue  its  influence  by 
the  force  of  magic,  through  the  lives  of  those  who  shared 
in  the  draught.  Nor  was  the  belief  in  such  philtres  the 
offspring  of  the  middle  ages :  rules  for  their  composition 
are  to  be  found  in  every  author  who  treats  of  drugs,  from 
Pliny's  "  Natural  History,"  to  the  works  of  the  seventeenth 
century. 

In  the  course  of  a  delightful,  though  unprosperous 
voyage,  Tristan  and  Yseult  arrive  on  an  unknown  island, 
where  they  are  detained  as  prisoners,  along  with  a  number 
of  knights  and  damsels,  who  had  previously  landed.  But 
the  uncourteous  customs  of  this  castle  being  destined  to 
end,  when  it  should  be  visited  by  the  bravest  knight  and 
fairest  woman  in  the  world,  Tristan  is  enabled,  by  over- 
coming a  giant,  to  effect  the  deliverance  of  the  captives, 
after  which  he  becomes  the  friend  of  Gallehault,  the  lord 
of  the  manor. 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  201 

After  the  arrival  of  Tristan  and  Yseult  in  Cornwall,  and 
the  nuptials  of  the  latter  with  King  Marc,  an  uneasiness 
arises  lest  the  husband  should  discover  the  imperfections 
of  his  bride.  Brangiau,  the  confidant  of  Yseult,  who  had 
never  yielded  to  the  weakness  which  occasioned  the  em- 
barrassment of  her  mistress,  agrees,  by  a  deception  fre- 
quently practised  in  the  romances  of  chivalry,  to  occupy 
her  place  for  a  single  night.  Marc  being  thus  guarded 
from  suspicion,  the  provident  Yseult,  to  escape  the  possi- 
bility of  detection,  delivers  her  late  substitute  to  two 
ruffians,  with  orders  to  murder  her  in  a  wood.  The 
assassins,  having  somewhat  more  mercy  than  their  fair 
employer,  leave  their  commission  unexecuted,  and  only 
tie  her  to  a  tree,  from  which  she  is  soon  released  by 
Palamedes. 

After  this,  a  great  part  of  the  romance  is  occupied  with 
the  contrivances  of  Tristan,  and  the  tender  Yseult,  to  pro- 
cure secret  interviews,  which  are  greatly  furthered  by 
Dinas,  Marc's  seneschal. 

Tristan,  at  a  time  when  he  was  forced  to  leave  Cornwall, 
on  account  of  the  displeasure  of  his  uncle,  was  wounded 
one  day  while  sleeping  in  a  forest,  with  a  poisoned  arrow, 
by  the  son  of  a  person  he  had  killed.  The  ladies  of  those 
days,  and  particularly  Yseult,  were  very  skilful  leeches ; 
but  to  return  to  Cornwall  in  the  present  circumstances 
was  impossible.  He  was,  therefore,  advised  to  repair  to 
Britany,  where  Yseult  with  the  White  Hands  was  as  cele- 
brated for  her  surgical  operations,  as  Yseult  of  Cornwall. 
Tristan  was  cured  by  this  new  Yseult,  and  married  her, 
more  out  of  gratitude  than  love,  if  we  may  judge  from  his 
apathy  after  the  nuptials.^  He  employed  himself  solely 
in  building  a  vessel  in  which  he  might  sail  to  Cornwall, 
and  at  length  embarked  on  receiving  a  message  from  the 
queen  of  that  country  ;  but  was  driven  by  a  tempest  on 
the  coast  of  England,  near  the  forest  of  Darnant,  where  he 
deUvered  King  Arthur  from  the  power  of  the  Lady  of  the 
Lake.  Having  experienced  a  number  of  adventures  he 
reached  Cornwall,  accomj^anied  by  Pherediu,  his  wife's 
brother,  whom  he  had  made  the  confidant  of  his  passion, 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  6. 


202  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

and  wlio  had  followed  him  through  the  whole  course  of 
this  expedition.  These  friends  had  no  sooner  arrived  in 
Cornwall,  than  Pheredin  became  enamoured  of  the  queen. 
Tristan  was  seized  with  a  fit  of  jealousy,  retired  to  a  forest, 
and  went  mad.  After  many  acts  of  extravagance  and 
folly,  he  allowed  himself  to  be  conducted  to  court,  where 
he  was  soon  restored  to  reason  by  the  attention  of  Yseult. 
But,  on  his  recovery,  the  jealousy  of  Marc  revived,  and  he 
was  compelled  to  take  a  solemn  oath  that  he  would  leave 
Cornwall  for  ever. 

Our  hero  proceeded  to  the  dominions  of  Arthur,  which 
again  became  the  theatre  of  unnumbered  exploits.  The 
jealousy  of  Marc,  however,  was  not  extinguished  by  the 
absence  of  Tristan  ;  he  set  out  for  England  with  a  view  of 
treacherously  killing  his  nephew,  and  in  his  progress 
through  the  kingdom  made  himself  ridiculous  by  that 
cowardice  for  which  most  of  the  knights  of  Cornwall  were 
notorious.  At  the  court  of  Arthur  he  became  the  laugh- 
ing-stock of  all  the  knights,  by  flying  before  Daguenet, 
the  king's  fool,  whom  he  mistook  for  Lancelot  du  Lac. 
While  there,  however,  Ai'thur  effected  a  reconciliation 
between  him  and  his  nephew,  and  after  their  return  to 
Cornwall,  Tristan  delivered  that  kingdom  from  the  in- 
vasion of  the  Saxons,  by  whom  it  had  been  brought  to 
the  verge  of  ruin.  Marc,  however,  behaved  with  signal 
ingratitude,  for  his  suspicions  being  again  awakened,  he 
threw  Tristan  into  prison.  He  was  freed  by  an  insurrec- 
tion of  the  peojjle  of  Cornwall,  and  in  turn  shut  up  Marc 
in  the  same  prison  in  which  he  had  been  himself  confined. 
Tristan  took  this  opportunity  of  eloping  with  the  queen  of 
Cornwall,  to  the  dominions  of  Arthur,  where  he  resided  at 
Joyeuse  Garde, ^  the  favourite  castle  of  Lancelot,  and  which 
that  knight  assigned  the  lovers  as  their  abode,  till  Arthur 
again  reconciled  all  parties.  Marc  was  then  delivered 
from  prison,  and  restored  to  the  enjoyment  of  his  rebellious 
kingdom  and  his  fugitive  spouse. 

Tristan,  subsequent  to  these  events,  returned  to  Britany 
and  to  his  long- neglected  wife.  Soon  after  his  arrival,  in- 
formation was  brought  that  the  Count  of  Nantes  had 

^  By  some  supposed  to  be  Bei'wick. 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  203 

thrown  off  his  allegiance  to  Runalen,  brother  of  the  white- 
hitudecl  Yseiilt,  who  had  lately  succeeded  his  father  in  the 
duchy  of  Britany.  Tristan  defeated  the  rebels,  but  while 
mounting  a  tower  by  a  scaling  ladder,  he  was  struck  to 
the  ground  by  a  stone  thrown  from  the  garrison,  and 
severely  wounded. 

It  was  during  the  attendance  of  Yseult  on  Tristan,  that 
she  first  became  his  wife  in  the  tenderest  acceptation  of  the 
term.  The  Count  de  Tressan,  in  his  extract,^  has  repre- 
sented this  late  fulfilment  of  his  obligations,  as  the  primary 
cause  of  the  death  of  Tristan  ;  but,  in  reality,  he  recovered 
from  his  wound  and  its  consequences,  and  forgot  Yseult  of 
Britany,  and  the  white  hands,  who  was  now  doubly  his 
own,  in  the  arms  of  Yseult  of  Cornwall.  He  had  obtained 
admission  to  the  palace  of  Marc  in  the  disguise  of  a  fool, 
and  had  many  secret  interviews  with  the  queen ;  but,  being 
at  length  discovered,  he  was  forced  to  return  to  Britany. 

Kunalen,  the  brother-in-law  of  Tristan,  was  at  this  time 
engaged  in  an  intrigue ;  our  hero  had  assisted  him  in 
forging  false  keys  to  enter  the  castle  of  the  knight  with 
whose  lady  he  was  enamoured,  and  even  consented  to 
accompany  him  to  a  rendezvous  which  his  mistress  had 
appointed.  Tris^tan  had  already  retired,  when  the  husband 
unexpectedly  returned  from  the  chase :  Runalen  and 
Tristan  escaped  in  the  first  instance,  but  were  pursued  and 
overtaken  by  the  husband  and  his  people :  Eunalen  was 
killed,  and  Tristan  received  a  wound  from  a  poisoned 
weapon.  Of  the  physicians  who  attended  him,  an  obscure 
doctor  from  Salerno  ^  was  the  only  one  who  understood 
his  case ;  but  the  other  physicians  insisted  on  his  dis- 
missal, and  Tristan  was  soon  reduced  by  their  remedies  to 
the  lowest  ebb.  In  this  situation,  as  a  last  resource,  he 
despatched  a  confidant  to  the  queen  of  Cornwall,  who  was 
so  celebrated  for  her  surgical  skill,  to  try  if  he  could  induce 
her  to  accompany  him  to  Britany.  Should  his  endeavours 
prove  successful,  he  was  ordered  to  display,  while  on  his 

'  Biblioth^que  des  Romans,  1776,  Avril,  vol.  i.  p.  230,  etc. 

-  As  early  as  the  ninth  century  the  Medical  School  of  Salerno 
obtained  a  wide  reputation.  In  the  twelfth  or  thirteenth  century 
it  began  to  decline  and  was  soon  thrown  into  the  shade  by  the  Schools 
of  Paris  and  Bologna, 


204  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

return,  a  white  sail,  and  a  black  one  if  liis  persuasions 
were  fruitless ; — an  idea  which  every  one  will  trace  to  a 
classic  and  mythological  origin.  The  messenger  arrived 
in  Cornwall  in  the  character  of  a  merchant ;  in  this  dis- 
guise he  had  an  early  opportunity  of  seeing  the  queen,  and 
persuaded  her,  in  the  absence  of  Marc,  to  return  with  him 
to  Britany. 

Meanwhile  Tristan  awaited  the  arrival  of  the  queen  with 
such  impatience,  that  he  employed  one  of  his  wife's  dam- 
sels to  watch  at  the  harbour,  and  report  to  him  when  the 
black  or  white  sail  should  appear  over  the  wave.  Tseult, 
who  was  not  in  the  secret,  demanded  the  reason  of  this  per- 
petual excubation,  and  was,  for  the  first  time,  informed 
that  Tristan  had  sent  for  the  queen  of  Cornwall.  It  was 
but  lately  that  this  white-handed  bride  had  learned  the 
full  value  of  a  husband,  and  the  jealousy  to  which  she  had 
hitherto  been  a  stranger  took  jDossession  of  her  soul. 

Now  the  vessel  which  bore  the  queen  of  Cornwall  is 
wafted  towards  the  harbour  by  a  favourable  breeze,  all  its 
white  sails  unfurled.  Yseult,  who  was  watching  on  the 
shore,  flew  to  her  husband,  and  reported  that  the  sails 
were  black.  Tristan,  penetrated  with  inexpressible  grief, 
exclaimed,  "  Haa  doulce  amye  a  Dieu  vous  command — Ja- 
mais ne  me  veerez,  ne  moy  vous :  A  Dieu  je  vous  salue. 
Lors  bat  sa  coulpe,  et  se  commando  a  Dieu,  et  le  cueur 
luy  creve,  et  I'ame  s'en  va." 

The  account  of  the  death  of  Tristan  was  the  first  intelli- 
gence which  the  queen  of  Cornwall  heard  on  landing.  She 
was  conducted  almost  senseless  into  the  chamber  of 
Tristan,  and  expired  holding  him  in  her  arms  ; — "  lors 
I'embrasse  de  ses  bras  tant  comme  elle  pent,  et  gette  ung 
souspir,  et  se  pasme  sur  le  corps ;  et  le  cueur  lui  part,  et 
I'ame  s'en  va." 

Tristan,  before  his  death,  had  requested  that  his  body 
should  be  sent  to  Cornwall,  and  that  his  sword,  with  a 
letter  he  had  written,  should  be  delivered  to  King  Marc. 
The  remains  of  Tristan  and  Yseult  were  embarked  in  a 
vessel,  along  with  the  sword,  which  was  presented  to  the 
king  of  Cornwall.  He  was  melted  with  tenderness  when 
he  saw  the  weapon  which  slew  Morhoult  of  Ireland,  which 
so  often  saved  his  life,  and  redeemed  the  honour  of  his 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  205 

kingdom.  In  the  letter  Tristan  begged  pardon  of  liis 
uncle,  and  related  the  story  of  the  amorous  potion. 

Marc  ordered  the  lovers  to  be  buried  in  his  own  chapel. 
From  the  tomb  of  Tristan  there  sprung  a  plant,  which 
went  along  the  walls,  and  descended  into  the  grave  of  the 
queen.  By  order  of  Marc  it  was  cut  down  three  times, 
but  every  morning  the  obdurate  vegetable  sj^rung  up  more 
verdant  than  before,  and  this  miracle  has  ever  since  shaded 
the  tombs  of  Tristan  and  Yseult.^ 

Such  plants  are  common  in  the  old  ballads.  The  Scotch 
ballad,  Lord  Thomas  and  Fair  Annet,  concludes, 

•'  Lord  Thomas  was  buried  without  kirk  wa', 

Fair  Annet  within  the  quiere ; 
And  o'  the  tane  thair  grew  a  birk, 

The  other  a  bonny  briere,  , 

And  ay  they  grew,  and  ay  they  threw, 

As  they  would  fain  be  near." 

Percy's  "  Reliques." 

Similar  verses,  but  with  some  verbal  alterations,  con- 
clude Prince  Robert,  published  in  the  Minstrelsy  of  the 
Border ;  and  we  have  plants  possessed  of  the  same  j^owers 
of  sympathy  and  vegetation  in  the  wild  romantic  ballad  of 
the  Douglas  Tragedy. 

^  Grimm  notices  an  old  Spanish  fragment  of  our  legend,  which  con- 
tains an  incident  unknown  to  any  other  version.  Isolde  the  Fair  is 
therein  represented  to  have  become  a  mother  in  consequence  of  partaking 
of  a  lily,  which  grew  on  Tristan's  grave.  This  lily,  as  Kurtz  suggests, 
corresponds  to  the  rose  and  vine  of  the  other  romances.  We  light  here, 
however,  upon  a  curious  class  of  myths,  which  we  find  in  most  ages  and 
countries.  The  idea  they  represent  probably  originated  in  the  employ- 
ment by  early  races  of  certain  ti-ees  and  plants  as  phallic  symbols. 
Among  the  Hindus  such  a  one  was  the  Lotus ;  another  was  the  Indian 
flower  Kambal,  to  which  the  sage  Nachiketa  owed  his  birth.  The 
Chinese  ha/e  also  a  legend  concerning  the  miraculous  conception  of  the 
Divine  Keason  by  his  holy  mother,  Shing-mu,  after  she  had  eaten  of  the 
flower  Lien-wa  (Nelumbium).  Besides  these  tales,  there  is  another 
related  by  Ovid  (Fasti,  v.  229),  according  to  which  Juno,  anxious  to 
have  offspring,  touched  a  certain  flower  at  the  bidding  of  Florti,  and 
thereupon  obtained  the  fulfilment  of  her  wishes  in  the  birth  of  Vulcan, 
in  rivalry  with  Jupiter,  who  had  produced  Minerva  from  his  brain.  Cf. 
A.  De  Gubernatis,  Mythologie  des  Plantes  ;  Kadamba,  Lis,  etc.  Lecky 
(History  of  Rationalism,  i.  p.  233)  mentions  an  old  superstition  connected 
with  this  subject.  Leith,  Tristan,  p.  17.  Cf.  also  Dubricius  and 
Taliesin,  Nash,  p.  196-7. 


206  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

The  fabulous  Hstory  of  Tristan  has  generally  been  con- 
sidered as  the  most  beautiful  of  the  romances  of  the 
Eound  Table.  "The  character  of  Palamedes  (says  Sir  W. 
Scott),  the  despairing  adorer  of  Yseult,  is  admirably  con- 
trasted with  that  of  Tristan,  his  successful  rival.  Nor  is 
there  a  truer  picture  of  the  human  mind,  than  the  struggles 
between  the  hatred  of  rivalship,  and  the  chivalrous  dic- 
tates of  knightly  generosity,  which  alternately  sway  both 
the  warriors.  The  character  of  Dinadan,  brave  and 
gallant,  but  weak  in  person  and  unfortunate  in  his  under- 
takings, yet  supporting  his  mischances  with  admirable 
humour,  and  often  contriving  a  witty  and  well-managed 
retort  on  his  persecutors,  is  imagined  with  considerable 
art.  The  friendship  of  Tristan  and  Lancelot,  and  of  their 
tw£)  mistresses,  with  a  thousand  details  which  display  great 
knowledge  of  human  nature,  render  Tristan  interesting  in 
the  present  day,  in  spite  of  those  eternal  combats,  to  which, 
perhaps,  the  work  owed  its  original  popularity.  The 
character  of  King  Marc  is  singular  and  si^ecific  ;  it  is  well 
brought  out  from  the  canvas,  and  a  similar  one  is  not  to 
be  met  with  in  other  romances  of  chivalry.  In  the  early 
metrical  tales,  he  is  merely  represented  as  weak  and 
uxorious.  The  darker  shades  of  character  have  been 
added  in  the  prose  romance,  to  excuse  the  frailty  of  Yseult." 
I  am  not  certain  if  the  idea  of  the  amorous  potion,  which 
is  Yseult' s  great  apology,  and  forms  the  groundwork  of 
the  romance,  be  well  conceived ;  for,  if  in  one  respect  it 
palliates  the  conduct  of  the  lovers,  it  diminishes  our  admi- 
ration of  their  fidelity.  The  character  of  the  queen  of 
Cornwall  can  hardly  excite  love  or  compassion,  as  the 
savage  atrocity  of  her  conduct  to  Brangian  starts  up  every 
moment  in  the  recollection  of  the  reader.  The  pitiful 
malice  of  the  white-handed  Yseult,  who,  to  serve  no  end, 
brings  a  false  report  to  her  husband  in  his  last  moments, 
renders  her  as  contemptible  as  the  heroine  is  hateful,  and  the 
dishonourable  manner  in  which  Tristan  comes  by  his  death, 
diminishes  the  pity  we  might  otherwise  feel  for  his  fate.^ 

^  Though  the  favour  accorded  to  Tristan  has  been  universal,  its  critics 
are  far  from  unanimous. 

"  The  simple  grace  and  delicacy  of  sentiment  evinced  by  Tristan  in  his 
passionate  love   of  Isolt  pass  imagination,"  writes  a  French  author. 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  207 

Whatever  may  be  its  beauties  or  defects,  the  romance 
was  well  known,  and  popular  in  all  the  countries  of 
Europe ;  it  was  repeatedly  printed  in  France  in  its  original 
form,  and  modernized  into  the  language  of  that  country 
by  Jean  Maugin  dit  le  petit  Angevin,  1554,  under  the  title 
of  Le  Nouveau  Ti'istan. 

A  translation  of  Tristan  was  printed  in  Spanish,^  at 
Seville,  1528,  and  again  in  1534;  and  a  romance,  some- 
what different  in  the  adventures  it  contains,  was  published 
in  1552-5,  in  Italian,  entitled  I-due  Tristani.^ 

"  Lacking  the  resources  of  fairy  creation  which  appear  for  the  first  time 
in  Ysaie  le  Triste  (see  pp.  212-222,  infra),  the  work  bears  the  impress  of  a 
tender  melancholy.  We  would  willingly  exchange  more  than  one  recent 
or  contemporary  epic  effusion  of  which  we  wot  for  but  a  few  pages  from 
the  pen  of  the  barbarous  author  of  this  romance." 

Southey  expresses  himself  thus  :  "  I  began  the  perusal  of  this 
(Tristan)  as  being  the  most  celebrated  of  all  these  romances,  with  great 
expectations  ;  those  expectations  were  not  answered.  The  story  in  its 
progress  not  only  disappointed,  but  frequently  disgusted  me.  Vile  as 
the  thought  is  of  producing  by  a  philtre  that  loAe  upon  which  the  whole 
history  turns,  and  making  the  hero,  or  rather  both  the  heroes,  live  in 
adultery,  and  that,  too,  in  both  instances  of  an  aggravated  kind,  these 
are  theconditionsof  the  romance,  which  must  be  taken  with  it  for  better, 
for  worse  ;  they  are  the  original  elements,  of  which  the  author  was  to 
make  the  best  he  could.  But  it  is  the  fault  of  the  author  that  so  many 
of  the  leading  incidents  should  shock,  not  merely  our  ordinary  morals, 
which  are  conventional,  and  belong  to  our  age,  but  those  feelings  which 
belong  to  human  nature  in  all  ages.  The  characters  also  are  in  many 
instances  discordant  with  themselves  ;  and  the  fault,  so  fi-equent  in  such 
books,  of  degrading  one  hero  to  enhance  the  fame  of  another,  is  carried 
here  to  great  excess.  An  author  may  do  what  he  will  with  the  creatures 
of  his  own  imagination — they  are  as  clay  in  the  potters  hand, — but  it  is 
a  foul  offence  in  literature  to  take  up  the  personage  whom  another  A\Titer 
has  described  as  a  knight  of  prowess  and  of  worth,  and  engraft  vices 
upon  him,  and  stain  him  with  dishonour.  Who  could  bear  Desdemona 
represented  as  an  adulteress  ?  "'  Introduction  to  the  "  Byrth,  Lyf,  and 
Actes  of  King  Arthur,  etc.,"  London,  1817,  i.  p.  xv. 

Roger  Ascham,  in  his  Schoolemaster  (bk.  i.),  condemns  this  among 
other  romances  of  chivalry  composing  the  Morte  Arthur  as  offending 
"  in  two  special  points,  in  ojien  manslaughter  and  bold  bawdjty.  In 
which  book  those  be  counted  the  noblest  knights  that  do  kill  most  men 
without  any  (juarrel,  and  commit  foulest  adulteries  by  subtlest  shift.  .  .  . 
And  yet  ten  Morte  Arthurs,"  he  adds,  "  do  not  the  tenth  part  so  much 
harm  as  one  of  these  books  made  in  Italy  (the  Italian  novels)." 

^  The  first  Spanish  edition  was  that  printed  in  Gothic  letter  with 
woodcuts,  at  Valladolid,  in  1501. 

-  This  romance  coincides  in  its  circumstances  with  a  very  scarce 


208  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Nor  has  any  romance  of  the  Round  Table  furnished  such 
ample  materials  of  imitation  to  the  Italian  novelists  and 
l^oets.  The  story  of  the  Grreyhounds,  a  favourite  dog  in 
the  middle  ages,  which  has  been  successively  copied  by  the 
Queen  of  Navarre  and  Bonaventure  des  Perriers,  may  be 
found  in  Tristan/  There  Dinas,  King  Marc's  seneschal, 
pursued  his  wife,  who  had  been  carried  off  by  a  knight, 
and  had  taken  her  husband's  greyhounds  along  with  her  ; 
the  seneschal  overtakes  the  fugitives,  and,  trusting  to  the 
affection  of  his  wife,  agrees  that  she  should  be  left  to  her 


Italian  poem,  by  Nicolo  Agostini,  the  continuator  of  Boiardo,  printed  at 
Venice  in  1520,  entitled  II  secondo  e  terzo  libro  de  Tristano,  nel  quale  si 
tracta  come  re  Marco  di  Cornouaglia  trovandolo  iin  giorno  con  Isotta 
I'uccise  a  tradimento,  e  come  la  ditta  Isotta  vedendolo  morto  di  dolore 
mori  sopra  il  suo  corpo.  Concerning  a  MS.  in  Italian  prose  of  the  his- 
tory of  Lancelot  and  Tristan,  pi-epared  in  1447,  see  Bandini,  Codd.  Lat. 
V.  208,  Ebert.  Many  of  the  Italian  poets  allude  to  Tristan  and  Isolt. 
Dante  gives  Tristan  a  place  among  the  lovers,  whom  he  describes  flying 
in  company  with  storks  : 

'•'  Vidi  Paris,  Tristano  e  piii  di  mille 
Ombre  mostrommi,  e  nominommi  a  dito, 
Che  amor  di  nostra  vita  dipartille." 

Inferno,  Canto  v.  67. 

A  German  translation  from  an  old  Fi'ench  prose  form  of  the  romance 
was  pi'inted  by  H.  Schonsperger,  at  Augsburg,  in  1498.  Xyerup 
notices  an  early  Danish  prose  version  of  Tristan,  see  Almindelig 
Morskabsldesning  i  Danmark  og  Norje  igjennem  Aarhundreder  Copen- 
hagen, 1816,  p.  118,  etc. 

An  ancient  Icelandic  Saga  upon  the  same  subject  dates  from  the  first 
half  of  the  thii'teenth  centui-y,  and  follows,  says  Professor  P.  E.  Miiller, 
the  English  poem  of  the  Auchinleck  INIanuscript  of  the  fourteenth  cen- 
tury, edited  by  Sir  Walter  Scott.  This  Saga  of  Tristram  was  published, 
in  1878,  by  the  Copenhagen  Kongelige  Nordiske  Oldskrift  Selskab. 

Evidences  everywhere  abound  of  the  widespread  popularity  of  this 
romance.  A  manuscript  was  found  in  the  Vatican  containing  a  frag- 
ment of  Tristan  in  corrupt  Greek,  in  politic  verse.  This  was  printed  in 
Breslau,  in  1821,  by  F.  V.  der  Hagen,  and  again  by  F.  Michel  in  his 
Poet.  Rom.  Tristan,  London,  1835.  See  note,  p.  194.  Hans  Sachs 
composed  a  drama  on  the  subject. 

^  This  statement,  indeed,  is  made  by  Count  Tressan  (Bibl.  d.  Rom. 
1776,  Avril,  p.  161),  from  whom,  perhaps,  Dunlop  borrowed  it.  Yet, 
according  to  Schmidt,  no  such  story  is  found,  either  in  Boccaccio,  or  in 
Queen  Margaret's  "  Heptameron,"  nor,  according  to  Liebrecht,  in  the 
Contes  Nouvelles  et  Joyeux  Devis  of  her  chamberlain,  Bonaventure 
Desperiers. 


CH.  Ill:]  TRISTAN.  209 

own  choice.  The  lady  follows  the  knight,  but  the  lovers 
instantly  return  and  demand  the  greyhounds,  concerning 
which  a  similar  agreement  is  made  ;  hut  they,  more  faith- 
ful than  the  lady,  and  deaf  to  the  voice  of  a  stranger, 
remain  with  their  old  master.  The  same  story  is  told  in 
the  Fabliau  of  the  Chevalier  a  I'Ej^ce :  and  is  related  of 
Gauvain  in  the  metrical  romance  of  Perceval,  but  has  not 
been  introduced  into  the  prose  one  of  that  name.  It  is 
also  in  the  printed  Lancelot,  but  not  in  the  most  ancient 
MS.  of  that  romance. 

I  will  not  say  that  the  phrensy  of  Orlando  has  been 
imitated  from  that  of  Tristan ;  but  in  some  circumstances 
the  resemblance  between  them  is  striking.  Jealousy  was 
the  cause  of  both,  and  the  paroxysms  are  similar.  Ariosto, 
however,  though  perhaps  through  the  medium  of  his  pre- 
decessor Boiardo  [see  note  p.  157,  supra],  is  indebted  to 
this  romance  for  the  notion  of  the  fountains  of  love  and 
hatred,  which  occasion  such  vissitudes  in  the  loves  of 
Einaldo  and  Angelica.  Tristan  also  makes  a  conspicuous 
figure  in  the  32d  canto  of  the  Orlando  Furioso,  where  a 
story  is  related  concerning  Tristano,  which  is  borrowed 
from  this  romance.  Bradamante,  overtaken  by  night,  is 
directed  to  a  building  which  still  retained  the  name  of  the 
Tower  of  Tristan.  In  this  retreat,  Clodion,  the  son  of 
Pharamond,  had  confined  a  beauty  of  whom  he  was 
jealous.  Tristan  had  arrived  there  at  eve,  and,  being  at 
first  refused  admission,  had  procured  it  by  force  of  arms. 
After  this  the  usage  was  established,  that  a  knight  should 
only  obtain  entrance  if  he  overcame  those  knights  who 
had  found  reception  before  his  arrival,  and  the  lady,  if  she 
surpassed  in  charms  the  females  by  whom  the  castle  was 
already  occupied.  From  the  romance  of  Tristan,  Ariosto 
had  also  borrowed  the  story  of  the  enchanted  horn,  by 
which  the  husband  discovers  the  infidelity  of  his  wife,  by 
Jiis  ovm  way  of  drinking,  and  which  is  said  to  have  been 
originally  given  by  Morgana  to  convince  Arthur  of  the  in- 
fidelity of  Geneura  : 

Qual  gia  per  fare  accorto  il  suo  fratello 
Del  fallo  di  Gineura  fe  Morgana; 
Chi  la  Moglie  ha  pudica  bee  con  quello, 
Ma  non  vi  puo  gia  ber  chi  1'  ha  puttana, 
I.  P 


210  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Che  1'  vin  quando  lo  crede  in  bocca  porre 
Tutto  si  sparge,  e  fuor  nel  petto  scorre. 

C.  43,  St.  28.^ 

In  Tristan,  however,  the  discovery  is  made  by  the  Culprit's 
mode  of  drinking.  In  that  romance,  during  one  of  King 
Marc's  fits  of  jealousy,  a  knight,  who  was  an  enemy  of 
Tristan,  brings  a  lady  to  court  who  possesses  an  enchanted 
horn,  which  was  so  framed  that  those  wives,  who  had  been 
unfaithful  to  their  husbands,  sj)illed  the  hquor  with  which 
it  was  filled,  in  attempting  to  drink  from  it.  They  all 
perform  so  awkwardly,  that  Marc,  in  the  first  heat  of  his 
resentment,  orders  a  bon-fire  to  be  prepared  for  the  general 
reception  of  the  ladies  of  the  court.  This  horn  is  also  in- 
troduced in  Perceval,  but  there  the  experiment  is  also  tried 
on  the  knights.  A  similar  trial  is  made  on  the  ladies  at 
the  court  of  Arthur  in  the  English  Morte  Arthur.  The 
fiction,  however,  may  be  traced  higher  than  the  romance  of 
Tristan.  Le  G-rand  thinks  that  it  has  been  imitated  from 
the  Short  Mantle  in  one  of  the  Fabliaux  he  has  published, 
which  was  too  short  or  too  long  for  those  ladies  who  had 
been  false  to  their  husbands  or  lovers.^     This  story  was 

^  "A  drinking-cup  will  I  for  that  assay, 

Give  you  (she  said)  of  virtue  strange  and  rare  : 
Such  was  for  Arthur  made  by  Moi'gue  the  fay, 

To  make  him  of  Genevra's  fault  aware. 
The  chaste  wife's  lord  thereof  may  drink  ;  but  they 
Drink  not  whose  wedded  partners  wanton  ai'e  : 
For  when  they  would  the  cordial  beverage  sup, 
Into  their  bosom  overflows  the  cup." 

Rose's  Version. 

In  his  turn  Lafontaine  borrows  this  cup  from  Ariosto.  The  lotus  fur- 
nishes a  somewhat  similar  test  in  the  Vrihat-Katha  and  Tooti-Nameh. 
See  Deslongchamps,  Fables  Indiennes,  p.  107.  See  Supp.  note  on 
names. 

^  Of  similar  virtue  was  the  mantle  of  Tegau  Euvron,  counted  among 
the  thirteen  precious  things  of  the  Island  of  Britain.  See  San  Marte, 
Beitrage  zur  Bretonischen,  etc  ,  Heldensage,  p.  62.  See  further  Graesse, 
p.  184,  etc.,  and  Von  der  Hagen's  "  Gesammtabenteuer,"  iii.  p.  Ixxxix, 
etc.,  upon  these  tests  of  virtue  and  fidelity.  An  old  German  popular 
song  having  reference  to  the  same  subject  is  quoted  in  Mone's  "  An- 
zeiger,"  8,  354,  No.  1.  Cf.  also  p.  378,  No.  165,  Avhere  twelve  kings  are 
unable  to  pass  the  test  which  is  in  this  case  a  ci'own.  In  Basile,  Penta- 
merone,  iii.  4  ("  Sapia  Liccarda  ") ;  and  in  Flore  and  Blanchefleur  we  also 


CH.  III.]  TRISTAN.  211 

origiually  called  in  the  Fabliaux,  Le  Court  Mantel,  but 
was  translated  into  prose  in  the  sixteenth  century,  under 
the  name  of  Le  Manteau  mal  taille.  There  is,  however,  a 
Breton  lay,  entitled  Lai  du  Corn,  by  Eobert  Bikez,  which 
bears  a  nearer  resemblance  to  the  story  in  Tristan.  A 
magical  horn  is  brought  by  a  boy  during  a  sumptuous 
feast  given  by  Arthur,  which,  in  a  similar  mode,  disclosed 
the  same  secrets  as  that  in  Tristan.  The  stories  of  the 
Mantle  and  the  Horn  have  been  united  in  an  English 
baUad  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  published  by  Percy,^ 
entitled  The  Boy  and  the  Mantle,  where  the  cup  is  the 
test  of  a  dishonoured  husband,  and  the  mantle  of  a  faith- 
less woman.  Some  mode  of  trial  on  this  point  is  common 
in  subsequent  romances  and  poems.  In  Perceforest  [iv. 
ch.  16,  17 ;  V.  ch.  42]  it  is  a  rose  ;  in  Amadis  de  G-aul  [Hi. 
14,  15]  a  garland  of  flowers,  which  bloom  on  the  head  of 
her  that  is  faithful,  and  fade  on  the  brow  of  the  incon- 
stant. The  reader  of  Spenser  is  well  acquainted  with  the 
girdle  of  Florimell,  the  former  cestus  of  Venus.  (B.  4. 
Canto  V.  s.  3.) 

Some  experiment  for  ascertaining  the  fidelity  of  women 
in  defect  of  e^^dence,  seems,  in  reahty,  to  have  been  re- 
sorted to  from  the  earliest  ages.  By  the  Levitical  law, 
(Numbers,  c.  v.  11-31,)  there  was  prescribed  a  proof  of 
chastity,  which  consisted  in  the  suspected  person  drinking 
water  in  the  tabernacle.  The  mythological  fable  of  the 
trial  by  the  Stygian  fountain,  which  disgraced  the  guilty 
by  the  waters  rising  so  as  to  cover  the  laurel  wreath  of  the 
unchaste  female  who  dared  the  examination,"  probably  had 
its  origin  in  some  of  the  early  institutions  of  Greece  or 
Egypt.  Hence  the  notion  was  adopted  in  the  Greek 
romances,  the  heroines  of  which,  we  have  seen,  were  in- 

find  a  proof  of  virginity :  in  the  first  case  it  is  a  ring,  and  in  the  second 
consists  in  crossing  a  stream.  See  Flecke's  ''  Gedicht,"  verse  4462,  etc. 
See  also  above,  p.  40;  Gesta  Romanoruin,  cap.  102;  and  Bandello,  No. 
21,  p.  287,  Lieb.;  and  Grimm  Rechtsalterth,  p.  932,  Lieb. 

^  In  the  Reliques,  and  subsequently  in  Bishop  Percy's  Folio  Manic- 
script,  ed.  1867,  vol.  ii.  pp.  304-311, 

^  There  was,  however,  no  particular  connexion  between  the  Stygian 
fountain  and  such  ordeals.  The  text  contains  rather  a  reminiscence  of 
such  passages  as  those  in  Achilles  Tatius,  viii.  12,  and  Eustathius, 
Ismenias  and  Ismene,  xi.,  »!s:c. 


212  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

variably  subjected  to  a  magical  test  of  tliis  nature,^  whicli 
is  one  of  the  few  particulars  wherein  any  similarity  of  in- 
cident can  be  traced  between  the  Greek  novels  and  the 
romances  of  chivalry :  the  Grecian  heroines,  however, 
underwent  the  experiment  in  a  cave,  or  some  retii'ement,^ 
though  they  might  have  exhibited  with  credit  openly,  while 
the  ladies  of  chivalry  are  always  exposed  in  public — in  a 
full  court  or  crowded  assembly ;  the  former,  too,  are  only 
subjected  to  a  trial  of  virginity,  the  latter  more  frequently 
to  some  proof  of  conjugal  fidelity. 

We  have  been  long  detained  with  Tristan  and  Yseult ; 
it  is  now  time  that  we  proceed  to  the  romance  of 


YSAIE    LE    TrISTE,^ 

in  which  is  related  the  history  of  their  son,  who  was  the 
fruit  of  the  interviews  procured  for  these  lovers  by  the 
accommodating  Dinas. 

When  Tristan  departed  for  the  court  of  Arthur,  the 
queen  was  obliged  to  ask  permission  to  make  a  distant 
pilgrimage.  The  necessity  of  this  request  conveys  a  most 
cruel,  and,  if  we  believe  other  romances,  a  most  unfounded 
insinuation  against  King  Marc.  Yseult  had  proceeded  no 
farther  in  her  journey  than  the  skirts  of  the  forest  of 
Mouris,  when  she  gave  birth  to  a  son  [ch.  i.  fol.  ii.].  She 
sent  for  a  hermit  who  resided  in  the  vicinity,  but  who, 
spite  of  the  urgency  of  the  occasion,  refused  to  baptize  the 
child  till  the  mother  had  revealed  her  foibles,  and  thus  paid 
the  tribute  which  in  those  days  conscience  owed  to  religion. 
He  then  baptized  the  infant  by  submersion  in  a  neighbour- 
ing fountain,  and  called  him  Ysaie  le  Triste ;  an  appellation 
compounded  of  the  names  of  his  parents.     After  this  the 

*  See  Mahly — Die  Schlange  in  Mythus  und  Cultus  der  Classischen 
Volker.     Basel,  1867,  p.  13,  etc. 

^  Chariciea  and  Ismene  underwent  these  tests  openly.  See  pp.  28, 
40,  and  80. 

^  Sensuit  I'histoire  dysaie  le  triste,  Filz  de  Trista  de  leonnois  cheua- 
lier  de  la  table  ronde,  et  de  la  royne  Jzeut  Koyne  de  Cornouaille.  En- 
semble les  nobles  prouesses  de  Marc  I'exille  filz  du  dit  Ysaye,  .  .  .  reduit 
du  viel  langaige  fran^oys.  Several  editions  were  published  in  Paris 
about  1500,  and  subsequently.     See  p.  222. 


CH.  III. 


YSAIE    LE    TRISTE.  213 


queen  returned  to  her  husband,  and  the  recluse  carried  the 
little  Ysaie  along  with  him  to  his  hermitage  [fol.iii.  verso]. 

One  clear  moonlight  evening  when  the  hermit  had  retired 
to  his  devotions,  and  was  kueehng  before  the  altar,  his 
attention  was  distracted  by  the  sound  of  delightful  and 
imearthly  music,  which  he  heard  at  a  distance  in  the 
forest,  and  which  gradually  approached  his  solitary  dwell- 
ing. Looking  through  a  window  which  opened  from  this 
oratory  into  his  cell,  he  perceived  a  group  of  fairies,  who 
made  free  to  light  a  comfortable  fire,  and  having  warmed 
themselves  and  washed  the  child,  departed  to  the  same 
tune  to  which  they  had  entered  [f.  iv.]. 

At  this  visit  the  hermit  felt  considerable  inquietude,  for 
the  fairies  were  not  Christians  ;  but  the  benevolence  with 
which  they  had  treated  the  child,  and  their  liberality  in 
leaving  a  plentiful  supply  of  provisions,  induced  him  to 
consider  them  as  such.  Some  nights  after,  his  new  guests 
returned,  and  introduced  themselves  in  due  form  ;  one  as 
the  Vigorous  Fairy,  another  as  the  Courageous  Fairy,  &c. 
They  announced  that  they  frequently  resorted  to  the  bush 
which  confined  the  magician  Merlin,  with  whom  they  had 
lately  enjoyed  a  full  conversation  on  the  merits  of  dift'erent 
knights,  and  other  important  affairs  of  chivalry.  In  par- 
ticular, Merlin  had  mentioned  the  death  of  Tristan,  and 
recommended  his  child  to  their  best  attentions:  accordingly 
they  now  endued  Ysaie  with  the  gifts  which  each  had  the 
power  of  bestowing,  one  giving  him  strength,  another 
courage,  and  so  forth.  They  also  directed  the  hermit  to 
proceed  with  his  ward,  as  soon  as  he  passed  the  period  of 
infancy,  through  the  G-reen  Forest ;  and  then,  on  hearing 
the  cock  crow,  they  suddenly  vanished. 

After  some  years  had  elapsed,  the  hermit  set  out  with 
Ysaie,  according  to  the  route  which  had  been  prescribed  to 
him  by  the  fairies  [ch.  iv.].  Having  passed  through  the 
Green  Forest,  they  came  to  a  plain,  in  the  midst  of  which 
stood  a  fountain,  and  from  the  middle  of  the  foimtain  grew 
a  tree,  which  shaded  it  with  spreading  branches.  Around 
sat  the  protecting  fairies,  who  now  bestowed  on  Ysaie,  as 
an  attendant,  an  ill-favoured  dwarf,  called  Tronc,  whose 
personal  deformity  was  compensated  by  the  quickness  of 
his  understanding. 


214  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

Having  left  the  fairies,  chance  conducted  our  adventurers 
to  the  tomb  of  the  enchanter  Merlin,  whence  deep  groans 
were  heard  to  issue :  Tronc  interrogated  the  voice  of  the 
magician,  which  informed  them  of  the  overthrow  of  Arthur 
with  his  chivalry,  and  directed  his  audience  to  proceed  to 
the  hermitage  of  Lancelot  du  Lac,  who  having  alone  sur- 
vived the  fatal  battle  with  Mordrec,  was  now  the  only  per- 
son worthy  to  invest  Ysaie  with  the  order  of  knighthood, 
and  to  bestow  a  new  Tristan  on  the  world.  In  obedience 
to  the  exhortation  of  Merlin,  they  proceeded  to  the  retreat 
of  Lancelot ;  but  found  on  their  arrival  that  it  was  no 
longer  inhabited,  as  the  knight  had  met  in  repose  the 
death  which  had  so  often  spared  him  in  battle.  By  advice 
of  the  dwarf  Tronc,  they  repaired  to  the  tomb  of  Lancelot, 
where  a  mausoleum  of  noble  simplicity  rose  in  view.  The 
marble  which  covered  the  body  of  the  warrior  was  raised, 
and  the  hermit  dubbed  Ysaie  a  knight  with  the  right  arm 
of  the  skeleton,  accompanying  this  ghastly  inauguration 
with  a  harangue,  which  seems  to  form  a  compendium  of 
the  duties  of  knighthood : — "  Chevalier,  soies  cruel  a  tes 
ennemys,  debonnaire  a  tes  amys,  humble  a  non  puissans, 
et  aidez  tou jours  le  droit  a  soustenir,  et  confons  celluy  qui 
tort  a  Vefes  dames  poures  pucelles  et  orphelins  ;  et  poures 
gens  aymes  toujours  a  ton  pouoir,  et  avec  aime  toujours 
Saincte  Eglise  "  [ch.  ix.]. 

Ysaie  returned  to  the  hermitage,  but  the  recluse  having 
died  after  a  time,  he  set  out  in  quest  of  adventures,  in  aU 
which  the  stratagems  and  ingenuity  of  Tronc  were  of  great* 
service  to  his  master.  The  state  of  the  country  at  this 
period  gave  ample  scope  for  chivalrous  exploits.  After  the 
death  of  Arthur,  a  number  of  petty  sovereignties  had  been 
erected,  and  were  maintained  by  cruelty  and  oppression. 
Ysaie,  however,  abolished  the  evil  customs  which  had  been 
established  at  different  castles,  and  in  their  place  substi- 
tuted others  more  consonant  to  the  genuine  spirit  of 
chivalry. 

By  these  means  the  fame  of  Ysaie  reached  the  court  of 
King  Irion.  It  is  not  said  where  this  monarch  reigned, 
but  he  had  a  beautiful  niece,  called  Martha.  This  princess 
had  a  strong  prepossession  in  favour  of  knights,  as  her  nurse 
had  persuaded  her  that  the  bravest  heroes  were  the  most 


CH.  III.]  YSAIE    LE    TRISTE.  215 

tender  lovers.  She  resolved  to  be  beloved  by  Ysaie,  and 
immediately  wrote  to  him  on  the  subject  [ch.  xxiv.].  Our 
hero  returned  a  favourable  answer,  but  his  speed  not  keep- 
ing pace  with  her  wishes,  she  prevailed  on  her  uncle  to 
proclaim  a  tournament,  in  the  hope  that  he  would  repair 
to  the  exhibition.  On  the  eve  of  its  celebration,  while  Irion 
was  dining  in  his  hall  with  four  hundred  knights  and  an 
equal  number  of  ladies,  and  while  the  second  course  (second 
metz)  was  serving,  the  pleasure  of  the  repast  was  suddenly 
interrupted  by  the  arrival  of  Tronc,  whom  his  master  had 
sent  on  before,  and  who  entered,  to  the  utter  amazement 
and  consternation  of  the  assembly,  Car  trop  estoit  hideux  a 
merveilles.  Having  discovered  Martha  seated  between  two 
knights,  who  were  clothed  in  black  and  purple,  he  delivered 
her  a  letter  from  Ysaie  announcing  his  speedy  approach. 

Ysaie  arrived  during  supper  at  the  palace  of  the  king, 
where  he  knocked  out  the  brains  of  the  porter  who  refused 
him  admittance.  On  ascending  the  stairs  he  discovered 
Martha,  by  whom  he  was  received  as  he  had  reason  to 
expect  [ch.  xxx.].  Their  interview  was  interrupted  by  the 
approach  of  the  king ;  but  the  host,  with  whom  Ysaie  had 
taken  up  his  cjuarters,  came  soon  after  to  inform  the  prin- 
cess that  her  knight  had  proceeded  no  farther  than  the  first 
house  in  the  suburbs.  In  consequence  of  this  intimation 
she  repaired  in  the  evening  to  the  rendezvous,  where  she 
gave  her  lover  the  most  decisive  proofs  of  her  benevolence. 

On  the  following  day  Ysaie,  who  was  arrayed  in  white 
armour,  distinguished  himself  at  the  tournaments  ;  but 
during  the  entertainment  by  which  they  were  succeeded, 
a  defiance  was  brought  from  the  giant,  styling  himself 
Lord  of  the  Black  Forest,  addressed  to  Ysaie  in  his  cha- 
racter of  reformer  of  abuses,  and  declaring  that  he  (the 
giant)  meant  to  persevere  in  the  practice  which  he  had 
hitherto  observed,  of  delivering  all  ladies  whom  he  caught 
within  his  jurisdiction  to  his  grooms  (varlets  de  chevaulx), 
and  afterwards  throwing  them  into  the  ditch  surrounding 
his  castle,  which,  as  the  romancer  very  justly  remarks, 
**  Estoit  la  plus  laide  coustume  du  monde." 

Our  hero  proceeded  to  destroy  this  monster,  and  on 
the  road  conversed  with  Tronc  on  his  late  happiness  ;  who, 
it  would  appear,  had  little  cause  to  rejoice  at  the  amorous 


216  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

success  of  his  master: — '*  Je  en  suis  Je,"  says  he,  "  moulu 
et  dechire.  Les  Fees,  vos  amies  et  protectrices,  m'ont  fait 
chierement  payer  vos  j^laisirs  ;  ores  dansiez  vous  aux  noj^ces 
et  payois  Je  les  violons  ;  et  disoient  elles  que  en  ma  chair 
devois  Je  resentir  le  tort  que  avoit  la  votre." 

While  Ysaie  was  engaged  in  discomfiting  the  giant,  and 
in  making  converts  by  force  of  arm  to  the  true  faith,  the 
Princess  Martha  had  felt  the  consequences  of  a  frank  letter 
and  an  imprudent  rendezvous.  King  Irion  pardoned  her 
transgression,  and  indeed  swore  "  Par  Saincte  croix  si  c'est 
du  chevalier  au  blanc  escu  Je  ne  fus  oncques  si  joyeulx." 
But,  however  much  gratified  by  hearing  that  it  was  the 
white- shielded  knight,  he  could  not  help  expressing  his 
astonishment  that  Ysaie,  having  passed  only  twenty-four 
hours  in  his  territories,  should  have  employed  them  in 
knocking  down  his  porter  and  seducing  his  niece. 

Martha  having  given  birth  to  a  son,  who  was  called  Marc 
[ch.  xl.],  adopted,  though  somewhat  late,  the  intention  of 
uniting  herself  in  marriage  to  Ysaie.  With  this  view  she 
set  out  in  quest  of  him,  disguised  as  a  minstrel,  and 
wandered  from  tower  to  tower  singing  lays  expressive  of 
her  i^ain  and  her  passion : — "  Lors  tire  la  harpe  et  la 
trempe,  et  puis  commence  a  harper  si  melodieusement  que 
c'estoit  merveilles  a  ouyr.  Et  puis  chantoit  avec  ce  tant 
bien  que  le  palays  en  retentissoit."  On  one  occasion  she 
poured  forth  her  melody  at  the  gates  at  the  castle  of 
Argus,  where  Ysaie  happened  at  that  time  to  reside.  Un- 
fortunately she  was  recognised  by  Tronc,  who,  still  mindful 
of  the  chastisement  of  the  fairies,  informed  her,  after 
having  disguised  himself,  that  Ysaie  had  gone  to  the  next 
town,  and  that  she  would  easily  overtake  him  [ch.  xlv.]. 

While  Martha  thus  wastes  her  steps  and  her  music,  her 
son  Marc  passed  the  period  of  infancy :  "  Et  bien  saichez 
que  c'estoit  le  -pyre  de  son  aage  que  oncques  fust  veu.  Si 
vous  diray  en  quelle  maniere ;  de  prime  face  quant  le  E.oy 
mengeoit  il  venoit  a  la  table  et  espandoit  le  vin  et  tiroit 
la  nappe  et  les  hanaj)s  a  luy  et  boutoit  tout  a  terre :  Et 
puis  venoit  en  la  cuisine  et  respandoit  les  pots.  Aux  petis 
enfans  faisait  il  tant  de  hont  que  c'estoit  merveilles.  Le 
roy  avoit  avec  luy  ung  sien  nepveu  fils  de  son  frere  :  une 
heure  regardoit  en  la  court  dedans  ung  puis ;  Marc  le  leva 


CH.  III.]  YSAIE    LE    TRISTE.  217 

par  les  piez  et  le  bouta  dedans,  et  fut  noye.  Quant  le  Eoy 
Irion  le  sceut  si  en  fust  moult  courroucc."  It  was  no 
wonder  then  that  the  knight,  "  qui  I'endoetrinoit,"  com- 
plained to  the  king,  "  que  c'est  la  j^lus  cruelle  piece  de 
chair  qui  oncques  nasquit  de  mere.  Et  vous  ditz,  que  se 
tantost  ne  fais  oye  ce  que  il  dist  il  meteroit  hors  par  les 
fenestres  de  la  tour :  Et  sachez  que  au  jour  de  I'escremie 
il  a  tuc  vostre  Boutillier,  et  ung  des  maistres  d'  hostel. 
Mon  Dieu,  fait  le  Roy  Irion,  J'estoye  tout  esbahy  que  Je 
ne  les  veoye  plus  aller  ne  venir."  The  king  on  receiving 
this  account  sends  for  his  nephew,  and  instead  of  repri- 
manding him,  "  Beau  nepveu,  fait  le  roy,  Je  suis  desormais 
ancien  liomme  et  tout  maladif ,  et  vous  etes  fort,  et  puissant 
et  saige ;  se  vous  voulez,  si  vouldroye  que  par  le  conseil  des 
saiges  que  gouvernissiez  mon  royaume  en  contester  contre 
tons  ceux  qui  mal  vouldroyent  faire." 

The  first  exercise  of  power  on  the  part  of  tliis  wise 
young  prince  was  to  proclaim  a  tournament,  during  which 
he  displayed  more  courage  than  courtesy.  The  knights 
and  courtiers  of  King  Irion,  being  jealous  of  the  authority 
of  a  prince  whose  recommendation  to  sovereign  power 
seems  to  have  consisted  in  his  dexterity  in  throwing  chil- 
dren into  wells,  and  beating  out  the  brains  of  butlers, 
entered  into  a  conspiracy  against  him,  of  which  the  plot  is 
so  singular,  and  so  similar  to  the  stories  of  haunted  apart- 
ments in  modern  romance,  that  I  have  thought  it  deserv- 
ing of  a  place  in  the  Appendix.^ 

After  Marc  had  triumphed  over  all  the  machinations  of 
his  enemies,  and  foiled  Satan  by  a  good  shrift,  intelligence 
arrived  that  the  Amiral  of  Persia  had  just  landed  in 
Britain,  accompanied  by  his  nephew,  the  king  of  Nubia, 
surnamed  the  Red  Lion ;  as  also  by  the  kings  of  Castille, 
Seville,  and  Arragon,  who  had  all  sworn  by  Mahomet  and 
Tervagant  that  they  would  not  return  to  their  own  country 
till  they  had  extirpated  Christianity  [ch.  Iviii.]. 

It  would  appear  that  the  Saracen  commander  had 
divided  his  army  into  two  portions.  A  few  troops  pro- 
ceeded against  the  capital  of  Irion,  but  the  main  body, 
under  the  orders  of  the  Amiral  in  person,  remained  near 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  7. 


218  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

tlie  coast  on  wliicli  they  liad  disembarked.  Marc  ad- 
vanced against  the  latter  division,  which,  with  the  assist- 
ance of  a  few  peasants,  he  totally  defeated.  After  the 
engagement  he  found  the  beautiful  Orimonda,  daughter  of 
the  Amiral,  reposing  in  the  pavilion  of  her  father.  He 
conducts  this  princess  as  a  trophy  to  his  tent,  sups  with 
her,  baptizes  her,  and  promises  to  espouse  her  on  his 
return  to  the  court  of  King  Irion,  but  meanwhile  jDrevails 
on  her  to  invert  the  usual  ceremonies  which  constitute  a 
legal  marriage : — 

II  n  est  vien  de  si  doux  pour  des  coeurs  pleins  de  gloire, 
Que  la  paisible  nuit  qui  suit  une  victoire  ; 
Dormir  sur  un  trophee  est  un  charmant  repos, 
Et  le  champ  de  bataille  est  le  lict  d'un  heros. 

Scudery,  Alaric.  c.  x.  1.  1-4. 

Next  morning  the  son  of  Tsaie  set  out  in  pursuit  of  the 
remaining  Saracen  army,  but  his  father  had  been  before- 
hand with  him.  Ysaie  had  proceeded  with  great  rapidity 
in  the  work  of  conversion  ;  but  as  he  had  nearly  extirpated 
the  native  infidels,  he  was  much  delighted  with  this  fresh 
supply,  which  he  had,  accordingly  attacked  and  defeated 
under  the  walls  of  the  capital  of  King  Irion.  The  father 
and  son,  equally  victorious,  met  and  recognised  each 
other  on  the  field  of  battle,  where  Orimonda  was  presented 
by  Marc  to  his  father.  A  moment  of  yet  greater  transport 
was  reserved.  Tronc  being  now  associated  to  Marc  in  the 
adventures  he  undertook,  it  was  partly  by  his  means  that 
Martha  was  delivered  from  traitors,  who  were  leading  her 
to  death,  and  finally  restored  to  the  arms  of  Ysaie  [ch.  xci.]. 

The  posterity  of  Tristan  were  thus  happy  and  united. 
The  nuptials  of  the  father  and  son  were  celebrated,  and 
the  son  was  knighted  by  the  father.  During  the  festival 
that  ensued,  the  protecting  fairies  again  appeared.  To  the 
faithful  Tronc  a  recompence  was  still  wanting.  They  in- 
formed him  that  he  had  the  good  fortune  to  belong  to 
their  family,  being  the  son  of  JuHus  Caesar  by  their  eldest 
sister  the  Fairy  Morgana.  Strange  events,  which  are 
written  in  the  Chronicles  of  Fairies,  had  forced  him  to 
endure  a  long  and  severe  penance.  His  auncs  the  fairies, 
in  order  to  enable  him  to  pass  the  time  more  agreeably, 
had  transformed  him  into  a  hideous  dwarf,  and  linked 


CH.  III.]  YSAIE    LE    TRISTE.  219 

him  to  the  fate  of  their  protege.  But  the  period  of  dis- 
grace was  at  length  expired.  The  fairies  cleansed  him 
from  his  deformities,  and  he  now  appeared  the  handsomest 
prince  in  the  world,  as  he  had  formerly  been  the  most 
witty  and  ingenious.  The  smallness  of  his  stature,  which 
did  not  exceed  three  feet,  was  the  only  imperfection  that 
remained.  His  aunts  bestowed  on  him  a  kingdom,  and 
in  this  new  form  and  dignity  he  was  known  by  the  title  of 
Aubron  [Oberon],  under  which  denomination  he  performed 
many  wonders,  related  in  the  beautiful  romance  of  Huon 
of  Bordeaux.  Before  departing  for  the  Vergier  des  Fees, 
where  he  was  about  to  establish  his  empire,  he  left  with 
Ysaie  a  magic  horn,  which  is  the  origin  of  that  in  Huon  : — 
"  Or  quant  Tronc  fut  baptize  se  dist  a  Ysaie — tenez  ce  cor 
sur  Yous  et  le  portez ;  si  vous  avez  besoing  vous  ou  Marc 
si  le  sonnez,  mais  gardez  yous  bien  que  point  ne  le  sonnez 
si  ce  n'est  pour  grant  besoing,  et  Je  yous  Yiendray  aider 
et  secourir." 

The  romance  of  Ysaie  deriYcs  its  chief  excellence  from 
the  singular  character  of  Tronc — his  attachment,  wit,  and 
endless  resources.  His  fidelity  is  the  same  to  Ysaie  and 
Marc,  whose  behaYiour  to  him  is  singularly  contrasted  ;  by 
the  former,  who  is  a  more  polished  warrior,  he  is  iuYariably 
treated  with  tenderness  and  respect;  while  he  is  often 
driYen  from  the  presence  of  his  impetuous  son,  and  reminded 
that  he  is  "  trop  defigure,  trop  hideux  a  Yeoir,  et  plus 
laide  creature  du  monde." 

Ysaie  le  Triste  has  also  received  much  novelty  from 
Tronc' s  relatives  the  fairies,  as  it  is  the  first  tale  of 
chivalry  in  which  they  are  introduced  acting  a  decided 
part.  This  new  species  of  machinery  has  given  rise  to 
gorgeous  descriptions,  and  pictures  of  magnificence,  hitherto 
unknown.  The  representation  of  the  Vergier  des  Fees, 
which  Tronc  and  Ysaie  visit  in  the  course  of  their  adven- 
tures, is  perhaps  the  richest  and  most  splendid  in  ro- 
mance.— "  And  the  while  they  spake  Marc  beholds  a  great 
valley  and  at  the  end  thereof  trees  in  marvellous  abun- 
dance ;  and  there  birds  sang  so  sweetly  that  it  was  delight 
to  hear.  And  Marc  stopped  a  little,  that  he  might  hear 
maidens  singing  so  doucely  that  he  was  amazed,  for  he 
had  never  before  seen  the  like,  and  therewith  harmonized 


220  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

sucli  sweet  melody  that  all  hearts  found  pleasure  therein. 
.  .  .  But  neither  dames  nor  damosels  did  they  see,  nor 
any  being;  and  there  was  such  a  lovely  mead  as  was 
solace  to  behold,  for  all  manner  of  goodly  flowers  and 
aromatic  herbs  were  there,  and  there  blossomed  there  such 
a  sweetness  that  all  hearts  must  fain  find  pleasure  therein. 
He  rode  forward  a  little  and  came  to  a  very  beautiful 
orchard  enclosed  by  a  little  wall  built  of  divers  kinds  of 
precious  stones,  and  all  round  was  a  vigne  wholly  of  gold 
having  grapes  wholly  of  emeralds ;  and  in  this  orchard 
was  set  a  table,  and  the  trestles  thereof  were  of  jet,  and 
the  table  itself  of  jasper,  and  the  tableclothe  of  white  silk 
so  cunningly  worked  as  it  was  marvellous  to  look  on ;  and 
near  unto  the  table  was  a  beautiful  dresser  the  which  was 
all  laden  with  precious  stones,  and  a  great  plenty  of  costly 
jewels ;  and  near  thereto  was  a  little  low  fountain  which 
was  of  topaz,  whereunto  the  water  flowed  in  a  conduit  of 
ruby,  and  it  was  so  clear  that  no  other  water  might  com- 
pare therewith  ;  and  when  the  fountain  was  full  the  water 
issued  therefrom  by  a  conduit  which  was  of  crystal,  and 
entered  into  the  earth  so  cunningly  that  no  man  might 
perceive.  And  on  the  other  side  of  the  garden  was  a  bed, 
wherof  the  stead  was  of  ivory  carved  and  cunningly 
wrought  into  great  images,  and  therein  was  contained  the 
historic  of  Lancelot  and  the  Dame  du  lac,  and  it  was 
covered  with  a  great  cloth  of  divers  colours  cunningly  in- 
terwoven, and  there  were  there  broidered  so  many  histories 
that  the  eyes  were  dazzled  therewith."     [c.  Ixxx.] 

It  is  the  introduction  of  fairies,  and  the  frequently  re- 
curring descriptions  of  those  splendid  wonders  they  pro- 
duce, or  by  which  they  are  attended,  that  induce  me  to 
place  the  composition  of  this  romance  in  the  end  of  the 
fourteenth  or  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century,  which  is 
a  century  and  a  half  later  than  the  date  of  Tristan.  In 
that  work,  in  Lancelot  du  Lac,  and  other  romances  of  the 
E-ound  Table,  there  are  no  doubt  fairies,  but  they  are  of  a 
different  species  from  the  protectresses  of  Ysaie.  They  are 
merely  women,  as  Morgain  or  Vivian,  instructed  in  magic. 
They  indeed  have  all  hell  at  their  command,  can  perform 
the  greatest  miracles,  and  occasion  to  any  one  the  severest 
misfortunes.     All  this,  however,  is  accomplished  by  inter- 


CH.   III.]  YSAIE    LE    TRISTE.  221 

mediate  ao^ency,  and  they  are  only  formidable  by  the  inter- 
vention of  demons,  with  whom  they  have  formed  advanta- 
geous connections :  bnt  the  second  class  of  fairies,  as  those 
in  the  romance  of  Ysaie,  were  self- supported  beings — they 
were  a  species  of  nymph  or  divinity,  and  possessed  a  power 
inherent  in  themselves.  Nor  were  these  creatures  merely 
the  offspring  of  the  imagination  of  romancers,  but  were  be- 
lieved to  exist  in  the  age  in  which  they  wrote.  At  a  period 
much  later  than  the  composition  of  Ysaie,  the  first  ques- 
tion asked  of  the  Maid  of  Orleans,  in  the  process  carried 
on  against  her,  was,  if  she  had  any  familiarity  with  those 
who  resorted  to  the  Sabat  of  the  fairies,  or  if  she  had  ever 
attended  the  assemblies  of  the  fairies  held  at  the  fontaine 
des  Groseillers  beneath  the  shade  of  the  Arbre  aux  Fees 
near  Domremy,  round  which  the  evil  spirits  danced  ;  and 
the  Journal  of  Paris,  in  the  reigns  of  Charles  VI.  and  VII. 
states,  that  she  acknowledged  that,  in  spite  of  her  father 
and  mother,  she  had  frequented  the  beautiful  fountain  of 
the  fairies  in  Lorraine,  which  she  named  the  good  fountain 
of  the  fairies  of  our  Lord. 

There  are  other  circumstances,  besides  the  machinery  of 
^  fairies,  which  may  lead  us  to  assign  a  late  period  to  the 
composition  of  Ysaie  ;  as,  for  instance,  the  introduction  of 
Saracens,  instead  of  Saxons,  as  enemies  of  the  heroes  of  the 
romance.  The  French  is  also  evidently  more  modern,  being 
much  less  difiicult,  but  also  less  energetic,  than  the  lan- 
guage of  Tristan  or  Lancelot.  It  is  true,  that  the  romance, 
as  now  extant,  is  said  in  the  title  to  be  "redige  et  reforme 
en  commun  langaige  vulgaire."  The  pretended  Eedacteur 
professes  to  have  adhered  to  the  story  "  selon  I'intention 
du  premier  hystoriographe ; "  but  he  declares  that  "I'ori- 
ginal  estoit  en  si  estrange  et  maulvais  langaige  mis  et  couche 
que  a  grant  peine  en  ay  peu  entendre  le  sens  et  elucider  la 
forme  de  la  matiere."  All  this,  however,  was  probably  as- 
serted in  order  to  give  the  stamp  of  authority,  and  I  have 
Uttle  doubt  that  the  language  and  story  of  this  romance 
are  of  the  same  antiquity.  "  The  romance  of  Ysaie,"  say 
the  authors  of  the  Bibliothcque  des  Eomans,  "  is  as  infe- 
rior to  those  by  which  it  was  preceded,  in  characters,  sen- 
timents, and  incidents,  as  in  language;  yet  the  history  of 
Ysaie  offers  many  interesting  situations,  and  presents  many 


222  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

coups  de  theatre :  but  what  renders  it  chiefly  valuable  is, 
that  it  makes  us  acquainted  with  the  difference  of  manners 
which  prevailed  in  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  and  end  of 
the  fourteenth  century.  The  world,  which  is  so  readily 
accused  of  growing  worse,  had  no  doubt  wondei-fully  de- 
generated in  point  of  chivalry,  at  least  during  these  three 
centuries.  At  the  conclusion  of  that  period,  too,  the 
deepest  shades  of  ignorance  had  gathered,  and  mankind 
were  strangers  to  all  dehcacy  of  sentiment.  The  knights, 
indeed,  still  fought  with  courage,  and  hence  the  writers  of 
romance  continued  to  describe  the  most  terrible  combats. 
Principles  of  honour  yet  existed  in  the  heart  of  the  Cheva- 
lier, but  they  were  concealed  under  a  rude  exterior.  Devo- 
tion was  fervent  and  sincere,  but  it  was  ill  understood  and 
worse  directed.  All  this  will  be  remarked  in  the  history  of 
Ysaie." 

This  romance  is  also  one  of  the  scarcest  of  the  class  to 
which  it  belongs,  which  is  strong  evidence  of  its  fancied  in- 
feriority. As  far  as  I  know,  it  is  one  of  the  few  romances 
which  never  appeared  in  a  metrical  form.  There  is  no 
MS.  of  it  extant,  and  there  have  been  but  few  editions, — 
one  printed  at  Paris,  1522,  small  folio,  Gallyot  du  Pre,  and 
two  others,  4to.,  without  date,  by  Philippe  le  Noir,  and  J. 
Bonfons,  and  according  to  Duverdier  another  4to.  without 
date  at  Lyons,  by  Olivier  Arnoullet. 

The  romance  of 


Arthur  ^ 

contains  little  more  than  the  events  of  which  we  have  al- 
ready given  an  account  in  the  preceding  fabulous  stories  of 
the  knights  of  the  Round  Table.  The  incidents,  however, 
are  better  arranged,  and  presented  in  one  view.     It  com- 

^  Le  Koman  du  Roy  Artus  et  des  compagnons  de  la  Table  Ronde,  &c. 
Such  is  the  indication  of  the  title  given  by  Dunlop.  The  work  meant 
seems  to  be  the  "  Tierce  partie  de  Lancelot  du  Lac  ....  compile 
et  extraict  precisement  et  au  juste  des  vrayes  histoires  faisantes  de 
ce  mencion,  par  tres  notable  homme  et  tres  expt  historien  maistre 
Gaultier  map,  et  imprime  a  Paris  par  Jehan  du  pre.  En  la  de  grace 
mil.  cccc.  iiii.  xx.  et  viii.  le  xvi.  iour  de  septembre."  See  supra,  note  to 
Lancelot,  p.  185,  and  Ward,  Cat.  i.,  p.  347. 


CH.  III.]  ARTHUR.  223 

prebends  the  history  of  the  Round  Table,  of  which  Arthur 
was  the  founder,  or  at  least  the  restorer,  and  gives  an  ac- 
count of  that  monarch  from  his  birth  to  the  period  of  his 
trai^ical  death. 

The  authors  of  the  Bibliotheque  inform  us,  with  most 
absurd  credulity  (or  rather  solemn  irony  perhaps),  that 
this  romance  was  written  by  one  of  the  Sire  Clerks  or  an- 
nalists of  the  Round  Table :  they  even  fix  on  the  name  of 
the  author  of  Artus,  and  assert  that  it  was  Arrodian  de 
Cologne,  who,  they  say,  retired  with  Lancelot  du  Lac  into 
his  hermitage  after  the  defeat  of  Arthur.  They  argue, 
that  it  is  impossible  to  assign  an  earlier  origin  to  the  ro- 
mance, as  it  gives  an  accoimt  of  the  catastrophe  of  almost 
all  the  knights  of  the  Round  Table. — "  Selon  toute  apparence, 
ces  chroniqueurs  sont  les  Sires  Clercs,  ou  officiers  historiens 
et  annalistes  de  cette  premiere  chevalerie  du  monde.  Nous 
Savons  meme  leurs  noms,  et  Von  petit  conjecturer,  que  c'est 
ici  I'ouvrage  du  premier  d'entre  eux,  nomme  Arrodian 
de  Cologne.  On  croit  qu'il  se  retira  avec  Lancelot  du  Lac, 
dans  un  meme  hermitage,  apres  la  terrible  defaite  ou  peri- 
rent  le  Roy  Artus,  et  la  i^lus  grande  partie  de  ses  chevaliers. 
La  preuve  que  cette  chronique  ne  fut  terminee  qu'apres 
*cette  catastrophe  c'est  qu'on  y  voit  la  fin  de  presque  tons 
ces  hcros." 

In  the  body  of  the  work  itseK,  it  is  said  to  have  been 
written  by  Gualtier  Map ;  it  was  printed  at  Paris,  1488, 
foho,  by  Jehan  du  Pre. 

After  a  narrative  of  the  events  connected  with  the  birth 
and  succession  of  Arthur  to  the  kingdom,  which  have  been 
formerly  related  in  the  Book  of  Merlin,  the  romance  in- 
forms us  that  he  drove  the  Saxons  out  of  his  dominions, 
by  which  means  he  secured  the  public  peace ;  but  he  still 
continued  to  receive  much  disquiet  from  his  own  family. 
His  four  nephews,  especially  G-auvain,  on  pretence  of  the 
illegitimacy  of  their  uncle,  refused  to  acknowledge  him  as 
king.  He  defeated  them  in  the  field  by  his  own  skill  and 
the  sagacity  of  Merlin,  and  afterwards  so  far  conciliated 
their  favour  by  his  bravery  and  good  conduct,  that  they 
became  the  most  faithful  of  his  vassals. 

Arthur  then  set  out  with  his  knights  to  the  assistance  of 
Laodogant,  King  of  Carmelide  in  Scotland.     This  i)rince 


224  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

had  been  attacked  by  King  Eyon,^  a  man  of  a  disposition 
so  malevolent  that  lie  bad  formed  to  himself  a  project  of 
possessing  a  mantle  furred  with  the  beards  of  those  kings 
he  should  conquer.  He  had  calculated  with  the  grand- 
master of  his  wardrobe  that  a  full  royal  cloak  would  re- 
quire forty  beards  :  he  had  already  vanquished  five  kings, 
and  reckoned  on  a  sixth  beard  from  the  chin  of  Laodogant. 
Arthur  and  his  knights  totally  deranged  this  calculation  by 
defeating  King  E-yon.  Laodogant,  in  return  for  the  assis- 
tance he  had  received,  offered  his  daughter,  the  celebrated 
Geneura,^  in  marriage  to  Arthur.  Merlin,  however,  who 
does  not  appear  to  have  been  a  flattering  courtier,  and  who 
does  not  seem  to  have  attached  to  the  conservation  of 
Laodogant' s  beard  the  im23ortance  that  it  merited,  declared 
that  his  master  must  first  deserve  the  princess.  In  obedi- 
ence to  his  oracle  and  enchanter,  Arthur,  in  order  to  quahfy 
himself  for  the  nuptials,  made  an  expedition  to  Britany, 
where  he  defeated  Claudas,  king  of  Berri,  who  had  un- 
provokedly  attacked  a  vassal  of  the  British  monarch. 

After  this  exploit,  Arthur  returned  to  the  court  of 
Laodogant,  where  preparations  were  now  made  for  his 
union  with  Geneura.     This  princess  is  described  as  the 

^  King  Ryon  and  his  mantle  are  mentioned  in  a  Welsh  legend  (San 
Marte,  "  Beitraege  zur  bretonischen  ....  Heldensage,"  p.  60,  and  by 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  Hist.  Reg.  Brit.  x.  c.  3,  where  he  is  called 
Eython,  in  Merlin  (pt.  ii.  fol.  105),  in  the  Roman  de  Brut,  v,  11957,  etc. 
where  his  name  is  wi'itten  Riton,  and  in  the  Chevalier  aux  deux  Epees, 
where  he  appears  as  Ris.  See  Leroux  de  Lincy  on  this  passage  in  the 
Brut. — LiEB. 

^  The  beauty  of  the  Queen  Geneura  or  Guenever  is  a  constant  theme 
with  the  old  romancers,  and  appears  to  rest  on  historical  tradition.  In  the 
Welsh  version  of  Ywaine  and  Gawaine,  edited  by  Lady  Charlotte  Guest, 
in  the  Mabinogion,  the  expression,  "  more  lovely  than  Gwenhwyvar," 
occurs,  p.  42  ;  and  she  is  celebrated  in  the  Triads  as  one  of  the  three  fair 
ladies  of  Arthur's  court.  In  the  Latin  chronicle  of  Geoffrey,  lib.  ix.  cap.  9, 
the  queen  is  equally  praised  for  her  beauty  and  courteous  manners,  and 
this  is  repeated  by  Wace  and  his  translators,  or  imitators.  The  most 
naive  and  elaborate  personal  description  of  her  appearance  is  given  in 
the  very  rare  Roman  de  Merlin,  vol.  i.  f.  cxxxvii.  See  also  another 
passage  quoted  by  Southey  in  his  notes  on  Morte  d' Arthur,  vol.  ii. 
p.  462.  Her  yzen  gray  (yeux  vaires)  are  mentioned;  such  were  con- 
sidered in  the  times  of  romances  as  undoubted  characteristics  of  beauty. 
See  examples  (out  of  many)  in  the  Erie  of  Zolous  ap.  Ritson.  metr.  rom. 
iii.  107.  Lawnful,  ibid.  i.  209.  Thomas  of  Ersyldoune  ap.  Laing  pop. 
poetr.  1.  89. 


CH.  III.]  ARTHUR.  225 

finest  woman  in  tlie  universe — her  stature  was  noble  and 
elegant — her  complexion  fair,  and  her  eyes  the  finest  blue  of 
the  heavens :  the  expression  of  her  countenance  was  lively 
yet  dignified,  but  sometimes  tender — her  understanding, 
naturally  just,  was  well  cultivated — her  heart  was  feehng, 
compassionate,  and  capable  of  the  most  exalted  sentiments. 

On  the  second  day  of  the  tournaments  (for  without 
these  no  great  festival  was  exhibited,)  an  unknown  knight, 
of  a  ferocious  aspect,  came  to  defy  the  combatants.  He 
entered  the  lists,  but  was  speedily  unhorsed  by  Arthur, 
and  afterwards  slain  by  him  in  mortal  combat  (comhat  a 
oidrance.)  This  knight  was,  after  his  death,  discovered  to 
be  King  Ryon,  by  the  mantle  which  he  carried  under  his 
cuirass,  half  furnished  with  the  spoils  of  vanquished 
monarchs. 

Arthur,  after  his  return  to  England  with  his  bride,  re- 
established the  Round  Table,  which  was  trans23orted  from 
Scotland,  for  King  Laodogant  had  it  in  deposit  since  the 
death  of  liter,  the  father  of  Arthur.  Merlin  dictated  the 
laws  and  regulations  of  this  renowned  association.^  The 
kings  of  Scotland  and  Norway,  the  princes  of  Armorica  and 
Graul,  disdained  not  to  pay  a  species  of  tribute  to  the  Eng- 
lish monarch,  in  order  to  be  admitted  into  this  celebrated 
society.  The  gloiy  of  the  institution  was  completed  by 
Pharamond,  the  king  of  the  Franks,  and  conqueror  of 
Gaul,  arriving  incognito  in  Britain  to  obtain,  by  his  prowess 
and  exploits,  a  seat  at  this  renowned  board. 

The  knights  of  the  Round  Table  had  no  exterior  and 
characteristic  mark  of  their  order,  but  each  had  a  peculiar 
device  and  motto  of  his  own.^     Thus  Arthur  carried  for 

'  In  the  Melanges  tires  d'une  grande  Bibliotheque,  it  is  stated  that  the 
statutes  of  the  Round  Table  are  not  found  in  any  of  the  Arthurian 
romances,  but  occur  in  the  second  volume  of  Anadis,  the  Knight  of  the 
Sun."'    Schmidt  Wiener  Jahrbuch.  Bd.  29,  p.  104,  quoted  by  Liebrecht. 

*  A  curious  little  book  is  devoted  to  this  subject ;  its  title  runs  :  La 
devise  des  Armes  des  Chevaliers  de  la  Table  Ronde  qui  estoient  du 
temps  du  tresrenome  et  vertueux  Artus  roy  de  la  grant  Bretaigne. 
Avec  la  descriptiu  de  leurs  armoiries.  Paris  (?  1520),  16mo.  An 
English  translation  was  published  at  London  in  1583,  entitled  :  The 
Auncient  Order  Societie  and  Unitie  laudable  of  Prince  Arthure,  etc. 
The  genealogy  of  the  heroes  of  Arthurian  and  Carlovingian  romance  is 
given  in  Ferrario's  "  Storia  ed  Analisi  degli  antichi  romanzi  di  Caval- 
leria,"  &c.     Milano,  1828,  1829,  8vo;  and  in  a  little  volume:  Tables 

I.  Q 


226  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.   III. 

his  arms  thirteen  golden  crowns,  with  the  motto  Moult  de 
couronnes  -phis  de  vertus. 

Lancelot  du  Lac  had  six  bends  of  or  and  azure — Haut  en 
naissance  en  vaillance  en  amour. 

His  brother  Hector  of  Mares  a  golden  star — Pour  etre 
heureux  un  bel  astre  sufiit. 

King  Pharamond  bore  the  Fleur  de  Lis — Que  de  beaux 
fruits  de  ces  fleurs  doivent  naitre. 

After  the  institution  of  the  Round  Table,  Arthur  con- 
ceived the  design  of  obtaining  possession  of  the  Sangreal ; 
but  this  precious  relic,  according  to  the  oracles,  could  only 
be  acquired  by  a  knight  who  had  a  very  rare  qualification, 
and  Perceval,  it  seems,  was  the  only  one  whose  purity  of 
morals  fitted  him  for  this  enterprise. 

The  story  of  the  false  G-eneura,  the  credulity  of  Arthur, 
and  the  final  triumph  of  the  queen,  which  has  been  men- 
tioned in  the  account  of  Lancelot,  is  fully  related  in  the 
romance  of  Arthur. 

After  G-eneura  was  reinstated  in  the  affections  of  her 
husband,  the  glory  and  domestic  feHcity  of  Arthur  seem  to 
have  been  at  their  height,  but  the  period  of  the  destruction 
of  the  first  chivalry  in  the  world  was  now  fast  apj^roaching. 
Mordred,  the  son  of  Arthur,  by  the  Queen  of  Orkney,  dis- 
puted the  right  of  succession  with  the  nephews  of  that 
monarch.  Arthur  sustained  the  claims  of  his  nephew 
Gauvain  against  this  unworthy  and  illegitimate  son,  and 
Mordred  assembled  under  his  banners  all  those  who  had 
solicited  and  had  been  refused  admittance  to  the  Round 
Table.  Some  of  the  knights  of  Arthur  were  still  engaged 
with  Perceval  in  the  conquest  of  the  Sangreal ;  the  rest 
defended  themselves  with  unexampled  valour,  but  Arthur 
and  his  chivalry  were  finally  overthrown.     The  Saracens/ 

genealogiques  des  heros  des  romans  (?  Paris,  1794);  and  the  arms  and 
devices  are  prefixed  to  Gyron  le  Courtois. 

1  Mordred  and  his  allies  included  Saracens.  This  appears  to  be  a 
most  important  feature  of  the  transition  into  the  succeeding  cycle  of 
romances.  In  the  earlier  stories  of  the  Round  Table,  Arthur's  external 
foes  are  Saxons,  not  Saracens.  Schmidt  Wien.  Jahrb.  Bd.  29,  p.  103. 
Graesse,  p.  242.  It  is  still  doubtless  Saxons  that  are  signified  under 
the  term  Saracens,  the  romaiicists  classing  all  heathens  indiscriminately 
under  this  name.  See  Sir  W.  Scott,  Minstrelsy  of  the  Scottish  Border, 
vol.  i.  p.  270.  Note  i.  ed.  Baudry  (On  the  Fairies  of  Popular  Supersti- 
tion, sect,  iii.),  and  Percy's  "  Reliques,"  note  on  the  Ballad  of  King 


CH.  III.]  ARTHUR.  227 

who  supported  Mordred,  reached  the  division  commanded 
by  the  king.  Arthur  was  overpowered  bv  numbers  and 
mortally  wounded ;  his  faithful  squire,  Goifled,  who  saw 
him  expire,  carried  off  his  famous  sword  Escalibor,  and 
threw  it  into  a  lake.  Lancelot,  who  in  the  romance  of  his 
own  name  does  not  arrive  in  England  till  after  this  battle, 
had  meanwhile  attacked  the  battalion  which  Mordred  com- 
manded, put  it  to  flight,  and  pursued  its  leader  to  the  sea- 
shore. There  he  overtook  him,  and  plunged  his  sword  into 
his  bosom.  Lancelot  having  routed  his  whole  host,  re- 
turned exulting  to  the  tents  of  Arthur,  where  he  learned 
the  fate  of  his  sovereign.  After  these  events  the  beautiful 
G-eneura  retired  to  a  convent,  and  Lancelot  closed  his  life 
in  a  hermitage. 

It  appears  strange  at  first  sight,  that  Arthur  and  his 
knights  should  be  represented  in  romance  as  falling  in 
battle,  as  well  as  Charlemagne  with  all  his  peerage,  at  a 
time  when  success  in  war  was  thought  necessary  to  com- 
plete the  character  of  a  warrior.  But  the  same  fate  has 
been  attributed  to  all  the  fabulous  chiefs  of  half-civilized 
nations,  who  have  invariably  represented  their  favourite 
leaders  as  destroyed  by  a  concealed  and  treacherous  enemy. 
Achilles,  at  least  according  to  the  fables  of  the  middle  age, 
was  thus  slain  by  Paris  ;  and  Rustan,  the  great  Persian 
hero,  fell  a  victim  to  the  snares  of  Bahaman,  the  son  of 
his  mortal  foe  Isfendar.  This  has  probably  arisen  from 
2)oets  and  romancers  wishing  to  spare  their  heroes  the 
suspicion  of  having  died  in  bed  by  the  languor  of  disease, 
to  which  any  violent  death  is  preferred  by  barbarous 
nations. — "  He'll  be  strapped  up  on  the  kind  gallows  of 
Crieff,  where  his  father  died,  and  his  goodsire  died,  and 
where  I  hope  he'll  live  to  die  himself,  if  he's  not  shot  or 
slashed  in  a  creagh."  "  You  hope  such  a  death  for  your 
friend,  Evan?"  "And  that  do  I  e'en;  would  you  have 
me  wish  him  to  die  in  yon  den  of  his,  like  a  mangy  tyke  ?  " 
— (Waverley,  ch.  xviii.) 

But  though  Arthur  was  universally  believed  to  have 

Estmere  (Series  i.  B.  i.).  Similarly  in  King  Home,  the  Pagan  Danes 
arc  called  '•  Saracens."  See  Thomas  Wright,  St.  Fatrick's  Purgatory, 
p.  14.  Lond,  1844.  In  the  Chanson  des  Saxons,  composed  by  Jean 
Bode!  in  the  reign  of  Philippe  Auguste  (1 1  HO- 1223),  the  Saxons  are  also 
represented  us  worshippers  of"  Mahomet. — Lieu. 


228  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

been  discomfited,  and  was  by  some  supposed  to  have 
perisbed  in  the  battle  with  Mordred  ;  the  expectation  of  his 
return  to  restore  the  Round  Table,  and  to  rule  over  Britain, 
was  long  and  fondly  cherished  in  Wales.  Alanus  de  In- 
sulis,  who  was  born  in  1109,  says,  that  if  any  one  were 
heard  in  Bretagne  to  deny  that  Arthur  was  yet  alive,  he 
would  be  stoned.^     This  tradition  formed  a  favourite  sub- 

*  Prophetia  Anglicana  (Merlini)  .  . .  una  cum  septem  libris  explana- 
tionum  in  eandem  prophetiara  Alani  de  Insulis,  etc.,  1.  iii.  c.  26. 
According  to  Juan  del  Castillo  (Historia  de  los  Reyes  Godos  que 
rinieron  a  Espana,  Madrid,  1624,  p.  365),  it  was  reported  that  Philip  II. 
was  obliged  at  his  espousals  with  Mary  of  England  to  swear  to  forego 
his  claims  to  the  English  throne  in  case  of  Arthur's  return.  Cf.  Don 
Quixote,  1.  c.  13.  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt. — Lieb.  See  in  the  note  on 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  p.  138,  the  treatment  of  the  monks  of  Laon  in 
the  church  at  Bodmin. 

The  reader  is  at  once  reminded  of  the  ready  popular  belief  accorded 
to  such  pretenders  as  Perkin  Warbeck,  and  many  others,  who  have 
claimed  to  be  the  bearers  of  esteemed  and  favourite  names  ;  various  other 
popular  legends  bear  witness  to  a  similar  expectation.  See  Grimm, 
Deutsche  Myth.  2nd  ed.  p.  903,  and  English  ed.,  p.  961.  Graesse, 
p.  341,  note.  Cf.  also  the  Breton  Saga  of  Morvan  Lez-Breiz  (Ville- 
marque,  Barzaz-Breiz,  vol.  i.  No.  12).  The  North  American  story  of 
Rip  van  Winkle,  in  W.  Irving's  "  Sketch-book." 

The  people  is  not  ungrateful  to  its  benefactors  and  heroes,  and  pre- 
serves the  memory  of  the  traits  of  its  darlings  inefifaceably  laid  up  in 
the  heart.  It  is  loath  to  admit  that  death  can  have  taken  them  away 
for  ever,  and  loves  to  cherish  the  idea  that  they  are  still  alive  and  will 
return  in  an  hour  of  the  country's  need.  Who  does  not  know  the  tradi- 
tion that  Frederick  Barbarossa  still  sits  at  a  stone  table  in  the  Kyffhauser 
Mountains,  with  his  long  red  beard  euA^eloping  in  mighty  coils  the  legs 
of  the  table  ?  (See  Massmann  Kaiser  Friedrich  im  Kytfenhauser,  Qued- 
linburg,  1850.)  The  Serbs  deny  that  their  champion  Kraljevic  Marco  is 
dead,  and  maintain  that  he  is  asleep  in  a  cave  in  Sumadia,  until  the 
hour  of  Serbia's  delivery  shall  arrive.  They  say  that  he  retired  thither 
after  he  had  seen  the  first  firearms,  bewailing  the  victory  of  cunning 
over  courage,  and  the  unavailingness  of  bravery  and  heroism,  since  now 
the  most  tottering  coward  could  lay  low  the  bravest  warrior  from  a  vile 
lurking  place.  There  he  sleeps  on,  stretched  out  by  the  side  of  his 
hoi-se,  which  is  eating  green  moss  from  a  golden  manger.  His  Handzar 
unrusted  hangs  from  the  wall.  In  the  hour  of  action  it  will  fall,  and 
wake  the  hero  by  the  noise  of  falling,  who  will  then  arise  and  liberate 
the  Serbs. 

The  Moravian  country-folk  still  hope  for  the  return  of  the  lost 
prince-child  Jecminek,  as  the  Bohemian  peasant  still  looks  for  St.  Wenzel 
and  his  hosts  on  Mount  Blanik.  The  announcement  of  the  death  of  the 
great  friend  of  the  people,  Joseph  II.,  was  received  in  Bohemia  with 
widespread  incredulity.    It  was  said  that  the  clergy  had  kidnapped  him 


CH.  III.]  ARTHUR.  229 

ject  of  the  legends  of  the  bards  ;  and  on  his  imaginary 
tomb  there  was  inscribed, 

Hie  jacet  Arthurus  rex  quondam  rexqiie  futurus. 

The  behef  in  Arthur's  return  probably  originated  ^  with  the 
stories  in  the  romance  of  Lancelot,  and  other  tales  of 
chivahy,  concerning  his  disappearance  with  liis  sister 
Morgana,  after  the  battle  ;  some  of  which  bear  a  striking 
resemblance  to  what  Homer  tells  us  of  Sarpedon,  that 
Apollo  washed  his  wounds  in  a  stream,  anointed  them  with 
ambrosia,  and  having  clothed  him  in  ambrosial  garments, 
delivered  him  to  the  care  of  Sleep,  to  be  conveyed  to 
Lycia.  But  though  no  doubt  was  entertained  as  to  the  re- 
appearance of  Arthur,  very  different  notions  prevailed  with 
regard  to  his  state  of  intermediate  being.  According  to 
some  traditions,  he  drove  through  the  air  in  a  chariot  -vNdth 
prodigious  noise  and  velocity  ;  ^  while,  according  to  others, 

from  Vienna,  and  were  keeping  him  in  prison  in  Rome ;  it  was  but  a 
wax  effigy  of  the  monarch  that  was  exposed  in  the  vault  of  the  Capuchins 
at  Vienna.  For  many  years  it  was  reported  in  Bohemia  that  pilgrims 
had  seen  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Rome  a  poorly-clad  silver-haired  old 
man,  who  had  told  them  he  was  the  Emperor  Joseph  II.,  and  was  even 
then  returning  from  captivity  to  his  dominions.  At  a  subsequent  time 
he  was  believed  to  be  a  prisoner  at  Kunradic,  and  numbers  of  credulous 
dupes  were  found  to  subscribe  money  for  his  ransom.  See  the  Bohemia 
quoted  in  the  Berlin  Voss  Zeitung,  of  March  2,  1849.  Liebrecht 
quotes  rather  more  in  extenso.  Note  also  the  traditions  of  return  asso- 
ciated with  the  Khalif  Mansur,  Charlemagne,  Ogier  le  Dannois,  the 
Slavonic  Sviatopolk,  the  Irish  Earl  Desmond,  and  Sebastian  I.  of 
Brazil,  who  are  at  some  future  day  to  reappear  in  the  flesh,  vanquish 
their  enemies,  and  claim  their  own. 

^  The  verse  given  in  the  text  is  only  one  of  several  epitaphs,  said  to 
have  been  found  on  Arthur's  tomb.  See  an  article  by  Raulin  Paris,  in 
Romania  I.,  on  the  Romances  of  the  Round  Table.  The  supposed  dis- 
covery of  Arthurs  grave  may  have  been  a  stratagem  favoured  by 
Henry  II.,  to  whose  policy,  of  course,  the  belief  in  Arthur's  return  was 
directly  opposed.  The  identification  of  the  mysterious  Celtic  land  of 
the  Hcsperides  with  Glastonbury  (the  Bury  of  the  family  Glastinga), 
the  Altic  Avallon,  AflFelwyn,  or  Isle  of  Apples,  has  no  better  foundation 
than  a  passage  in  Geoffrey  of  ^lonmouth.     See  note,  supra,  p.  170. 

'  The  so-called  Arthur's  Chace,  similar  to  the  nocturnal  rides  of  the 
wild  huntsman  in  Germany,  in  reference  to  which  may  be  consulted 
Graesse,  p.  64,  note  *  *  (Literarg,  Bd.  2,  §  .'i) ;  Grimm,  Teutonic  Mytho- 
logy, ch.  xxxi. ;  also  the  account  of  the  Hessian  trooper,  or  headless  horse- 
man, in  the  State  of  New  York,  in  the  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow,  given  in 
Washington  Irving's  "  Sketch-book  ;  "  note  by  Graesse  on  Rausanias,  i. 


230  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

he  had  assumed  the  shape  of  a  raven/  a  bird  which  it  be- 

32,  §  3,  at  p.  893,  and  at  p.  895,  on  Villemarque's  "  Barzaz-Breiz," 
vol.  i.  No.  8.  Schwarz-Schulprogramm  des  Friedrich-Werderschen 
Gymnasium  in  Berlin,  1850,  p.  8,  etc.  See  also  Graesse,  upon  Arthur's 
transformation  into  a  raven,  p.  162.  (Connection  between  Herodias  and 
the  Wild  Huntsman,  see  Grimm,  Teutonic  Mythology,  pp.  883,  933  ;  also 
Bock,  L'Amphitheatre  de  Constantinople,  Bruxelles,  1849,  p.  55,  note). 
Akin  to  these  legends  is  that  of  the  Irish  O'Donoghue,  whose  name 
is  so  closely  associated  with  Killamey  ....  either  up  the  mountain, 
along  the  valleys,  upon  the  water,  or  in  any  one  of  the  islands,  you  are 
sure  to  find  some  object  connected  with  it;  every  rock  of  unusual  form 
is  forced  into  an  illustration  of  the  story  ;  the  guides  and  boatmen  will 
point  out  to  the  tourist  O'Donoghue's  horse,  O'Donoghue's  prison,  his 
stable,  his  library,  his  pigeon-house,  his  table,  his  cellar,  his  honeycombs, 
his  pulpit,  his  broom  ;  and  almost  on  the  summit  of  lofty  Mangerton,  a 
huge  stone  is  described  as  the  shaft  of  his  jaunting-car,  which  he  broke 
one  night  returning  from  a  revel  with  the  arch  enemy,  who,  to  give  a 
fitting  reception  to  his  gallant  guest,  had  filled  for  that  night  the 
"  Devil's  Punch  Bowl"  with  the  genuine  dew  of  the  mountain.  Scores 
of  the  peasantry  may  be  encountered  who  have  as  firm  a  belief  in  the 
existence  of  the  spirit-chieftain  as  they  have  in  their  own.  Although 
its  variations  are  numerous,  the  original  story  may  be  told  in  a  few 
words.  In  ages  long  past,  O'Donoghue  of  Ross  was  lord  of  the  lake,  its 
islands,  and  the  surrounding  land.  His  sway  was  just  and  generous, 
and  his  reign  propitious  ;  he  was  the  sworn  foe  of  the  oppressor  ;  he 
was  brave,  hospitable,  and  wise.  Annually  since  his  death,  or  rather 
disappearance,  he  is  said  to  revisit  the  pleasant  places  among  which  he 
lived  ....  Every  May  morning  he  may  be  seen  gliding  over  the  lake 
mounted  on  a  white  steed,  richly  caparisoned,  preceded  and  followed  by 
youths  and  maidens  who  strew  spring  flowers  in  his  way ;  while  sounds 
of  unearthly  sweetness  glide  along  the  waters,  and  become  thunder  as 
they  make  their  way  up  the  surrounding  hills.  Although  he  appears 
in  state  only  on  May  morning,  he  is  seen  on  various  other  occasions ; 
and  luck}'  is  the  child  of  earth  by  whom  the  immortal  spirit  is  en- 
countered ;  for  be  he  peer  or  peasant,  good  fortune  is  sure  to  wait  upon 
him,  etc.  See  "  Ireland,  its  Scenery,  Character,"  etc.,  by  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
S.  C.  Hall,  part  iv.  pp.  192,  etc.,  where  the  belief  is  regarded  as  a  real 
phenomenon  due  to  mirage.  Similarly  the  chieftain  Desmond,  who 
perished  in  Elizabeth's  reign,  is  believed  to  emerge  once  in  seven  years 
from  his  sublacustrine  palace,  and  ride,  armed  at  all  points,  round  the 
waters  of  Lough  Gur.  It  would  scarcely  be  wonderful  if  the  midnight 
rides  of  the  late  King  of  Bavaria  gave  rise  to  some  local  legend.  See 
also  note  to  Boccaccio  (Dec.  v.  8). 

^  Or  according  to  the  Cornish  tradition,  that  of  a  red-legged  chough 
( Trcgilus  graculus)  now  seldom  seen. 

"  And  mark  yon  bird  so  black  of  wing, 

Talons  and  beak  all  red  with  blood. 

The  spirit  of  the  long  lost  king 

Passed  in  that  shape  from  Camlan's  flood." 

R.  S.  Hawker,  Vicar  of  Morwinstow. — H.  Jenner. 


CH.  III. J  ARTHUR.  231 

came  a  capital  crime  in  Wales  to  destroy.  It  was  more 
generally  fabled  that  he  remained  in  subterraneous  exis- 
tence, a  superstition  alluded  to  by  Milton : 

"  Arthur,  their  chief,  who  even  now  prepares 
In  subterraneous  being  future  wars." 

Milton.     [Mansus,  V.  81.]  ' 

The  various  traditions  concerning  the  disappearance  and 
coming  of  this  fabulous  monarch,  have  been  embodied  in 
Warton's  "  Grave  of  King  Arthur,"  and  are  represented  as 
simg  by  the  Welsh  bards,  for  the  amusement  of  Henry  II., 
when  he  passed  through  their  country  on  an  expedition  to 
Ireland :  — 

"  Then  gifted  bai-ds,  a  rival  throng, 
From  distant  Mona,  nurse  of  song  ; 
From  Teivi,  fringed  with  umbrage  brown, 
From  Elvy's  vale  and  Cadei*'s  crown, 
From  many  a  sunless  solitude 
Of  Kadnors  inmost  mountains  rude  ; 
From  many  a  shaggy  precipice. 
That  shades  lerne's  hoarse  abyss, 
To  crown  the  banquet's  solemn  close, 
Themes  of  British  glory  chose. 

"  O'er  Cornwall's  clififs  the  tempest  roared, 

High  the  screaming  seamew  soared  ; 

On  TintaggeFs  topmost  tower. 

Darksome  fell  the  sleety  shower, 

When  Arthur  ranged  his  red-cross  ranks 

On  conscious  Camlan's  crimsoned  banks, 

By  Mordred's  faithless  guile  decreed, 

Beneath  a  Saxon  spear  to  bleed  ! 

Yet,  in  vain,  a  Paynim  foe 

Armed  with  fate  the  mighty  blow  ; 

For  when  he  fell,  an  Eltin  Queen, 

All  in  secret  and  unseen, 

O'er  the  fainting  hero  threw 

Her  mantle  of  ambrosial  blue  ; 

And  bade  her  spirits  bear  him  far, 

In  Merlin's  agate-axled  car, 

To  her  green  isles  enamelled  steep, 

Far  in  the  navel  of  the  deep. 

O'er  his  wounds  she  sprinkled  dew. 

From  flowers  that  in  Arabia  gi'ew; 

On  a  rich  enchanted  bed 

She  pillowed  his  majestic  head ; 

^  A  similar  allusion  occurs  in  Balbuena's  epic  poem,  '•  El  Bernardo," 
c.  V.  St.  17,  18. — LiEB. 


232  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

O'er  his  brow  with  whispers  bland. 
Thrice  she  waved  an  opiate  wand  ; 
And  to  soft  music's  airy  sound 
Her  magic  curtains  closed  around  : 
There  renewed  the  vital  spring, 
Again  he  reigns  a  mighty  king ; 
And  many  a  fan-  and  fragrant  clime, 
Blooming  in  immortal  prime, 
By  gales  of  Eden  ever  fanned, 
Owns  the  monarch's  high  command  : 
Thence  to  Britain  shall  return, 
If  right  prophetic  rolls  I  learn, 
Borne  on  victory's  spi-eading  plume, 
His  ancient  sceptre  to  resume ; 
Once  more  in  old  heroic  pride. 
His  barbed  courser  to  bestride ; 
His  knightly  table  to  restore 
And  brave  the  tournaments  of  yore." 

He  ceased :  when  on  the  tuneful  stage 
Advanced  a  bard  of  aspect  sage, 
"  When  Arthur  bowed  his  haughty  crest, 
No  princess  veiled  in  azure  vest. 
Snatched  him  by  Merlin's  potent  spell. 
In  groves  of  golden  bliss  to  dwell ; 
Where  crowned  with  wreaths  of  mistletoe. 
Slaughtered  kings  in  glory  go. 
But  when  he  fell,  with  winged  speed 
His  champions  on  a  milk-white  steed, 
From  the  battle's  hurricane, 
Bore  him  to  Joseph's  towered  fane. 
In  the  fair  vale  of  Avalon  : 
There  with  chaunted  orison 
And  the  long  blaze  of  tapers  clear, 
The  stoled  fathers  met  the  bier ; 
Through  the  dim  aisles,  in  order  dread 
Of  martial  woe  the  chief  they  led. 
And  deep  entombed  in  holy  ground 
Before  the  altar's  solemn  bound  : 
Around  no  dusky  banners  wave, 
No  mouldering  trophies  mark  his  grave, 
The  faded  tomb,  with  honour  due, 
'Tis  thine,  O  Henry  !  to  renew. 
There  shall  thine  eye,  with  wild  amaze. 
On  his  gigantic  stature  gaze. 
There  shalt  thou  find  the  monarch  laid 
All  in  warrior  weeds  arrayed. 
Wearing  in  death  his  helmet  crown, 
And  weapons  huge  of  old  renown — 
Martial  prince,  'tis  thine  to  save, 
From  dark  oblivion,  Arthur's  Gra.ve." 


CH.  III.]  GYRON    LE    COURTOIS,  233 

I  have  uow  given  an  account  of  the  romances  of  the 
fahiilous  history  of  Britain,  as  far  as  Arthur  and  his 
knights  are  concerned,  which  form  by  far  the  largest  pro- 
portion of  the  number. 

There  are  two  romances  connected  with  the  imaginary 
history  of  Britain,  ^^I'cceding  the  time  of  Arthur,  and  two 
which  relate  the  fabulous  incidents  posterior  to  his  reign. 

Those  which  are  first  in  the  order  of  events,  happen  to 
be  also  the  earliest,  considered  as  to  the  dates  of  their  com- 
position.^    One  of  these  relates  the  adventures  of 

Gtron  le  Courtois," 

a  romance  which  chiefly  hinges  on  the  disinterested  friend- 
shij)  of  Gyron  for  Danayn  the  Red,  and  the  ungrateful 
return  he  receives.^ 

This  work  was  widtten  by  Rusticien  de  Pise,  who  was 
also  the  author  of  Meliadus,  and  lived  during  the  reigns  of 
Henry  III.  and  Edward  I.  of  England.  Rusticien  informs 
us,  that  Gyron  was  translated  by  him  from  the  book  of 
Edward  I.,  when  he  went  to  the  conquest  of  the  Holy 
Land  [1271-72],  "  et  saichez  tout  vrayement  que  cestuy 
livre  fut  translate  du  livre  du  Monseigneur  Edouard  le 
roi  d'Angleterre,  en  celluy  tems  que  il  passa  oultre  la  mer, 
au  service  de  uostre  seigneur,  pour  conquester  le  Saint 
Sepulchre.  Et  maistre  Rusticien  de  Puise  compila  ce 
Romant :  car  de  cellui  livre  au  roi  Edouart  d'Angleterre 

^  "  Notwithstanding  Dunlop's  statement  the  events  of  the  romance 
must  be  intended  as  contemporaneous  with  Arthur.  Near  the  commence- 
ment of  the  work,  the  comrades  Gyron  and  Danayn  meet  xVrthur's 
Senesclial  and  Ywain,  a  well-known  knight  of  the  Kound  Table." 
Schmidt,  in  the  Wiener  Jahrb.  Bd.  29,  p.  105,  quoted  b}''  Lieb. 

^  Gyron  le  Courtois.  Avecques  le  deuise  des  armes  de  tous  les 
chevaliers  de  la  table  ronde. 

^  The  original  story,  together  with  the  Meliadus,  formed  part  of  the 
great  romance  Talamedes  (or  as  M.  Taulin  Paris  prefers  to  call  the 
whole,  Gli'on  le  Courtois,  this  personage  being  the  chief  hero  through- 
out), written  by  P^lie  de  Borron,  who  was  alive  in  the  twelfth  century, 
probably  about  one  hundred  years  before  Kusticien,  whose  composition 
is  the  basis  of  the  work  as  printed.  See  note,  p.  188,  and  Mr.  Ward's 
Cat.  pp.  .'366-67  ;  and  Paulin  Paris,  Manuscrits  Francois.  Paris,  1838,  ii. 
pp.  346-360,  and  iii.  pp.  56-61,  64.  In  MS.  Brit.  Museum.  Add.  23930, 
the  name  is  always  spelt  Guron. 


234  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

translata  il  toutes  les  merveilleuses  advantures  qui  sent 
en  cestuy  livre."  Who  the  original  author  was  from  whom 
Eusticien  compiled,  or  what  was  the  nature  of  this  book  of 
King  Edward's,  which  Rusticien  used,  it  is  impossible  to 
conjecture.'  The  romance  of  Gyron,  as  written  by  Rusti- 
cien  de  Pise,  was  first  printed  by  Yerard,  Paris,  1494,^ 
in  folio  ;  and  afterwards  in  1519. 

In  this  fabulous  work  we  are  informed  that  Brehus, 
surnamed  Sans  Pitie,  in  the  course  of  his  unmerciful  ad- 
ventures, one  day  entered  a  cavern  fitted  up  with  dead 
bodies  [Ed.  1519,  fol.  122-3],  and  inhabited  by  two  old 
knights,  who  prove  to  be  the  father  and  grandfather  of  the 
hero  of  this  romance.  Having  boasted  of  the  exploits 
which  were  performed  by  their  companions  in  arms  in  their 
own  days,  Brehus  contends  that  they  were  surpassed  by 
those  of  a  knight,  who  excelled  all  others  in  courtesy  and 
valour,  and  was  the  admiration  of  the  British  court,  though 
it  was  unknown  whence  he  came,  or  what  was  his  lineage. 
Grant  Pere  Gyron,  as  he  is  called,  conjectures  from  this 
description  that  Brehus  alluded  to  his  grandson,  Gyron 
the  Courteous.^  The  oldest  Gyron  and  his  son  had  quitted 
the  inheritance  of  the  throne  of  Gaul,  in  order  to  devote 
themselves  to  knight  errantry,  which  they  had  in  turn 
abandoned  for  the  tranquil  and  temperate  life  they  were 
then  enjoying.  They  thought  it  necessary,  however,  to 
make  an  apology  for  their  meagre  and  squalid  appearance, 
which  they  attributed  to  the  want  of  provisions,  "  car  nous 
mangeons  si  pourement  en  cestuy  Heu,  ou  vous  nous  voyez, 
que  a  grant  peine  en  pouons  nous  soubstenir  nostre  vie." 
[f.  126.] 

^  Paul  in  Paris  has  (says  Mr.  Ward)  printed  the  words  of  Eusticien 
more  fully  (Manuscrits  Frangois,  Paris,  1838,  vol.  ii,  p.  356-58)  and 
from  these,  and  the  work  to  which  they  form  the  preamble,  it  appears 
that  this  ''■  translation''  was  in  fact  a  compilation  of  several  Arthurian 
romances,  especially  the  Quest  of  the  Saint  Graal,  the  Tristram,  and 
the  Palamedes  (or  Guiron  le  Courtois).  Subsequent  copyists,  coutinues 
Paulin  Paris  (vol.  iii.  p.  64),  picked  out  individual  adventures  of  this  or 
that  hero,  and  hence  were  derived  the  printed  Guiron  and  Meliadus. 
Ward,  Cat.  i.  p.  367.     But  see  note  on  Meliadus,  sujjra,  p.  188. 

"^  Brunet,  however,  gives  1501  as  the  probable  date. 

3  The  word  courtois,  says  Wieland  in  his  preface  to  Gyi'on  der 
Adelige,  implies  nobility  alike  of  mind,   of  manners,  and  of  birth. — 

LlEB. 


CH.  III.]  GYRON    LE    COURTOIS.  235 

The  erowii  which  the  Gyrons  abdicated  had  been  usurped 
by  Pharamond  ;  aud  their  descendant,  Gryron  the  Courteous, 
had  been  eom2x41ed  to  embrace  the  life  of  a  kni<^dit  errant. 
In  the  course  of  his  adventures  he  became  the  companion 
in  arms  of  Danayn  the  Red,  lord  of  the  castle  of  Maloanc, 
whose  wife,  the  lady  of  Maloanc,  was  the  most  beautiful 
woman  in  Britain.  This  lady  was  enamoured  of  Gyron, 
and  saw  that  she  was  by  no  means  indifferent  to  the 
knight ;  but  all  her  inducements  proved  ineffectual  to 
persuade  him  to  betray  his  friend. 

At  length  Gyron  and  Danayn  proceeded  to  a  tournament, 
proclaimed  at  the  British  court,  whither  they  were  followed 
by  the  lady  of  Maloanc.  During  the  celebration  of  the 
tournament,  Danayn  w^as  unexpectedly  called  home,  in 
order  to  avenge  the  death  of  one  of  his  relatives,  who  had 
been  treacherously  murdered.  At  his  departure  he  con- 
signed his  wife  to  the  charge  of  Gyron,  who  was  now  dis- 
tracted by  the  new  temptation  presented,  and  the  additional 
claim  on  his  honour.  While  roaming  through  a  forest, 
pei-j^lexed  with  these  conflicting  emotions,  he  overheard 
Messire  Lac,  as  he  is  called,  express  a  passion  for  the  lady 
of  Maloanc ;  Lac  accosted  him,  and  commenced  a  long  and 
tedious  story,  which  he  had  no  sooner  concluded,  than  he 
proposed  to  tell  another.  This  is  declined  by  Gyron,  but 
is  insisted  on  by  Lac, — "  en  nom  Dieu,  fait  le  Chevalier, 
Je  vous  en  compteray  ung  autre.  Je  n'en  vueil  point 
ouyr,  fait  Gyron.  Nostre  vassal,  fait  le  Chevalier,  or 
saichez  qu'il  est  mestier  que  vous  I'escoutez ;  et  que  si 
vous  ne  le  me  laissez  comjDter  en  telle  maniere  que  Je  soies 
couroussc,  Je  le  vous  compteray  done  en  telle  guyse  qu'il 
ne  sera  jour  de  vostre  vie  qu'il  ne  vous  en  souviengne  " 
[f.  32].  Messire  Lac  accordingly  proceeds  to  tell  his  story 
at  the  point  of  the  sword.  The  object  of  these  tedious 
narratives  was  to  detain  Gyron  till  Lac's  arrangements  for 
carrying  off  the  lady  of  Maloanc  had  been  completed. 
Gyron,  however,  ultimately  frustrates  all  his  designs,  over- 
throws Lac  in  single  combat,  and  rescues  the  lady  of 
Maloanc,  who  had  fallen  under  his  power.  "  Et  quant  la 
belle  dame  de  Maloanc,  qui  ja  avoit  toute  sa  paour  oublic, 
se  voit  toute  seule  avec  le  Chevalier  du  monde  qu'elle 
aymoit  le  plus,  et  qui  si  preud  homme  des  armes  estoit  qu'il 


236  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

avoit  tout  le  monde  passe,  et  qiii  estoit  plus  beau  et  plus 
gracieulx  que  tous  les  autres  en  toutes  choses,  elle  ne  scait 
a  celluy  point  quelle  en  doit  dire  ;  tout  le  coeur  luy  va 
remnant.  Orendroit  luy  veult  elle  parler  d'amours,  et 
maintenant  s'en  retient."  At  length,  when  they  had  reached 
the  side  of  a  delightful  fountain,  she  ventures  to  ask  Gyron 
if  he  be  in  love.  The  knight,  unable  longer  to  restrain  his 
emotions,  confesses  that  she  was  and  had  long  been  the 
sole  object  of  his  adoration.  A  mutual  confession  of  a 
secret,  but  long  subsisting  attachment,  spares  the  minutiae 
of  courtship  ;  and  G-yron  appears  to  have  been  on  the  eve 
of  violating  that  fidelity  to  his  friend,  which  he  had  so 
long  preserved,  when  he  fortunately  casts  his  eyes  on  the 
hilt  of  his  sword,  where  was  inscribed  the  motto, — Loyaulte 
passe  tout — Faulsete  honit  tout.^  He  is  awakened  to  such 
a  sense  of  his  unworthiness,  and  of  self-indignation,  by 
this  inscription,  that  he  plunges  the  sword  into  his  bosom. 
While  lying  wounded  by  the  side  of  the  fountain,  Danayn, 
who  had  heard  some  false  report  of  the  infidelity  of  his 
wife  and  his  friend,  arrives  at  the  spot,  on  his  return  to 
the  British  court.  G-yron  conceals  the  part  which  the  lady 
bore  in  the  adventure,  and  merely  relates,  that  he  had  in- 
flicted the  wound  as  a  punishment  of  his  mental  infidelity. 
The  friendship  of  Danayn,  instead  of  being  diminished,  is 
thus  redoubled,  and  the  wounded  knight  is  conveyed  to 
the  castle  of  Maloanc  [f.  65]. 

When  Gyron  was  restored  to  health,  he  formed  a  new 
attachment  to  a  damsel,  called  Bloye,  of  whom  he  daily 
became  more  deeply  enamoured.  With  this  lady  Danayn 
also  fell  in  love,  and  secretly  carried  her  off,  regardless  of 
the  happiness  of  his  friend,  and  unmindful  of  the  striking 
example  which  he  had  experienced  of  his  fidehty.  The 
resentment  of  Gyron  was  proportioned  to  the  injury  he 
had  received,  and  the  ingratitude  of  him  by  whom  it  was 
inflicted :  he  immediately  set  out  in  quest  of  the  traitor, 
and  during  a  year's  wandering  experienced  many  perilous 

^  The  passage  reads  in  the  edition,  Paris,  1519,  fol.  40  : — "Loyaulte 
passe  tout  et  faulcete  se  honnit  tout  et  decoit  tous  hommes  dedans  qui 
elle  se  heberge,"  and  as  though  the  writer  forefelt  an  attempt  to  garble 
the  inscription,  he  adds,  "  et  ny  avoit  ne  plus  me  moins  en  escript." — 

LlEB. 


CH.  III.]  GYRON    LE    COURTOIS.  237 

and  romantic  adventures,  totally  foreign  to  the  object  of 
his  search  [f.  93]. 

One  day,  says  the  romance,  when  the  season  was  fair  and 
clear,  as  it  mii^lit  be  in  the  end  of  October,  it  happened  that 
the  road  which  Gyron  held  conducted  him  to  tlie  foot  of  a 
hill.  The  hill  was  white  with  snow,  for  it  was  winter,  but 
the  plain  was  orreen  as  if  it  had  been  the  month  of  May. 
At  the  foot  of  this  hill,  in  the  plain,  and  beneath  a  tree, 
gurgled  a  fountain  most  beautiful  and  most  delightful,  and 
imder  that  tree  sat  a  knight,  armed  with  hauberk  and 
greaves ;  his  other  arms  were  near  him,  and  his  horse  was 
tied  to  the  tree.  By  the  knight  sat  a  lady  so  beautiful  that 
she  was  a  miracle  to  behold  ;  and  if  any  one  were  to  ask 
who  was  the  knight,  I  would  say  it  was  Danajn  the  Red, 
the  brave  knight ;  as  the  lady  seated  before  him  was  no 
other  than  the  beautiful  Lady  Bloye,  who  had  been  so  much 
beloved  by  G-yron.^ 

A  desperate  combat  ensued  between  the  knights,  in 
which  Danayn  was  vanquished  :  Gyron  spared  his  life,  but 
refused  to  be  reconciled  to  liim,  and  departed  with  Bloye, 
of  whom  he  was  more  enamoured  than  ever  [f.  162,  etc]. 

Some  years  afterwards,  Bloye  engaged  in  an  adventure 
with  her  lover  Gyron  which  had  a  very  unfortunate  issue, 
as  they  were  both  imprisoned,  and  it  was  not  till  after  a 
long  period  that  they  were  freed  by  the  valour  of  Danayn, 
who  thus  made  some  reparation  for  the  injuries  he  had 
formerly  inflicted  on  his  friend.  Gyron  and  his  lady,  how- 
ever, were  a  second  time  thrown  into  confinement  by  the 
treachery  of  the  Knight  of  the  Tower,  and  are  left  in  thral- 
dom at  the  termination  of  the  work,  which  concludes  with 
the  exploits  of  a  son  of  Gyron  by  Bloye,  referring  the  reader 
for  an  account  of  the  deliverance  of  his  parents  to  the  ro- 
mance of  Meliadus : — "  Mais  quant  ils  furent  delivrez  ne 
fais  Je  point  de  mention,  pour  ce  que  le  livre  de  Latin  se 
finist  en  ceste  endroit  quant  a  leurs  faits ;  mais  le  Romant 
du  Roy  Mehadus  de  Leonuoys  dit  la  maniere  comment  ils 
furent  deUvrez,  et  par  qui"  [fol.  219,  etc.]. 

The  great  fault,  however,  of  the  romance  of  Gyron  is,  not 
that  it  terminates  too  soon,  but  that  it  is  too  long  pro- 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  8. 


238  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

tracted.  It  ouglit  to  liave  concluded  with  the  overthrow 
of  Danayn  and  the  recovery  of  Bloye  by  G-yron ;  for  the 
adventures  of  their  son,  which  form  a  considerable  part  of 
the  romance,  are  miserably  tagged  to  the  main  subject. 
Indeed  it  is  a  common  blemish  in  romances  of  chivalry, 
that  there  is  no  repose  in  them,  and  that  the  reader  is  led 
on  from  generation  to  generation  after  the  principal  inte- 
rest is  exhausted.  The  earher  part,  however,  of  the  ro- 
mance is  uncommonly  interesting,  and  the  style  is  perhaps 
the  finest  of  all  the  old  fabulous  histories  of  Britain ;  accord- 
ingly it  was  extremely  popular  in  this  country  and  France, 
and  was  translated  at  an  early  period  into  many  different 
languages  of  Europe.  It  is  the  subject  of  an  Italian  poem 
of  the  sixteenth  century,  entitled  Girone  Cortese,  versified 
in  ottava  rima,  and  containing  twenty-four  cantos.  This 
poem  was  written  by  the  celebrated  Alamanni,  author  of 
the  Coltivazione,  but  never  obtained  much  popularity, 
owing  to  an  injudicious  imitation  of  the  ancient  epic  poems 
in  a  romantic  subject  [see  G-raesse,  p.  241].  That  part  of 
the  romance  which  relates  to  the  adventures  of  Gyron  with 
the  lady  of  Maloanc,  has  been  beautifully  versified  by 
Wieland,  the  German  poet,  well  known  as  the  author  of 
Oberon. 

The  second  romance  concerning  events  preceding  the 
reign  of  Arthur,  to  which  I  alluded,  and  which  exhibits  a 
different  set  of  heroes  from  the  tales  of  the  Eound  Table, 
is 

Percefoeest,^ 

which  comprehends  the  fabulous  history  of  Britain,  pre- 
vious to  the  age  of  Arthur.     It  is  the  longest  and  best 

^  La  tres  elegante,  delicieuse,  melliflue,  et  tres  plaisante  hystoire  du 
tres  noble,  victorieux,  et  excellentissime  Roy  Perceforest  Roy  de  la 
Grant  Bretaigne,  fundateur  du  Franc  Palais  et  du  Temple  du  Souverain 
Dieu  ;  avec  les  merveilleuses  enterprinses,  faits,  et  adventures  du  tres 
belliqueulx  Gaddiffer  Roy  d'Escosse,  lesquelz  I'Empereur  Alexandre  le 
Grant  couronna  Roys  soubz  son  obeissance  :  en  lacquelle  hystoire  lelee- 
teur  pourra  veoir  la  source  et  decoration  de  toute  Chevalerie,  culture  de 
vraye  noblesse,  prouesses  et  conquestes  infinies  accomplies  des  le  temps 
de  Julius  Cesar ;  avecques  plusieurs  propheties,  comptes  d'amans  et 
leurs  diverses  fortunes.     Paris,  1528,  6  tom. 

See  a  notice  of  this  Romance  by  F.  W.  V".  Schmidt  in  the  Wiener 
Jahbiicher  der  Literatur,  1825,  pp.  108-124. 


CH.  III.]  PERCEFOREST.  239 

known  romance  of  the  class  to  which  it  belongs,  and  is  the 
work  which  St.  Palaye,  and  similar  writers,  have  chiefly 
selected  for  illustrations  and  proofs  of  the  manners  of  the 
times,  and  institutions  of  chivalry. 

It  is  strange  that  Perceforest,  which  sets  all  chronology, 
geography,  and  }»robal)ility  at  defiance,  more  boldly  than 
almost  any  other  romance,  should  begin  with  a  profound, 
and  by  no  means  absurd,  investigation  concerning  the  topo- 
graphy of  Britain,  and  the  earliest  ages  of  its  history. 
Julius  Ciesar,  Pliny,  Bede,  and  Solinus,  are  cited  with  the 
utmost  ostentation  of  learning. 

The  author,  however,  soon  enters  on  the  regions  of  fic- 
tion. That  part  of  his  work  which  immediately  succeeds 
the  geographical  disquisition,  corresponds  pretty  closely 
with  the  fabulous  history  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth ;  he  re- 
lates [B.  i.  c.  3]  that  Brutus,  or  Brut,  the  son  of  Sylvius, 
and  great  grandson  of  ^neas,  having  killed  his  father  by 
mischance,  fled  to  the  states  of  a  Greek  king,  called  Pan- 
drasus,  whose  daughter  Imogene  he  espoused.  From  this 
kingdom  he  fitted  out  an  expedition,  and  landed  in  Albion, 
since  called  Britain  [i.  9]  from  his  name,  and  conquered 
the  whole  country  with  the  assistance  of  Corinaeus,  another 
Trojan  chief  whom  he  had  picked  up  on  his  voyage.  Most 
of  the  European  nations  were  anciently  fond  of  tracing 
their  descent  from  Troy.  The  greater  part  of  them  had 
been  at  one  time  provincial  to  the  Romans ;  and  the  Britons, 
who  remained  so  long  under  their  dominion,  may  have  im- 
bibed a  general  notion  of  the  Trojan  story  from  their  con- 
querors. As  Pome,  from  becoming  the  capital  of  the 
supreme  pontiff,  was  a  city  highly  reverenced  and  distin- 
guished, and  as  the  Trojans  were  believed  to  be  its  founders, 
an  emulation  gradually  arose  among  the  nations  of  Europe, 
of  claiming  descent  from  the  same  respectable  origin.  Nor 
were  the  monks  and  other  ecclesiastics  (the  only  writers  and 
readers  of  the  age,)  uninterested  in  broaching  and  main- 
taining such  an  opinion.  But,  as  to  the  story  of  Brutus, 
w^ho  is  represented  as  the  founder  of  the  kingdom  of  Bri- 
tain, in  Geoffrey  and  Perceforest,  and  is  the  hero  of  the 
most  ancient,  as  well  as  the  most  celebrated  of  all  the  me- 
trical romances,  it  may  be  presumed  that  it  was  not  invented 
till  after  the  ninth  centurv,  as  Nenuius,  who  lived  towards 


240  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

the  close  of  it,  mentions  him  with  great  obscurity,  and 
seems  totally  unacquainted  with  the  British  affairs  which 
preceded  Caesar's  invasion. 

After  the  death  of  Brutus,  the  author  of  Perceforest  drags 
us  through  the  history  of  his  numerous  descendants.  One 
of  these  monarchs  is  King  Leyr  [i.  11],  whose  story  was 
first  related  of  a  Eoman  emperor  in  the  Gesta  Eomanorum, 
and  was  afterwards  told  of  the  British  monarch,  in  the 
Chronicle  of  G-eoffrey  of  Monmouth.  These  works  were 
the  origin  of  Shakspeare's  celebrated  tragedy,  which,  how- 
ever, differs  so  far  from  them  that  both  in  Greoffrey's 
Chronicles  and  Perceforest,  the  events  have  a  happy  conclu- 
sion, as  Cordelia  defeats  her  sisters,  and  reinstates  her 
father  on  the  throne.  From  Perceforest  the  tale  had  found 
its  way  into  Fabyan's  "  Concordance  of  Histories,"  ^  written 
in  the  time  of  Henry  YII.  and  thence  passed  into  various 
Lamentable  ballads  of  the  death  of  Kiag  Leyr  and  his 
three  daughters,  of  which  the  catastrophe  probably  sug- 
gested to  Shakspeare  the  tragic  termination  which  he  has 
given  to  his  drama.  The  story  of  King  Lear  is  also  in  the 
fifteenth  chapter  of  the  third  book  of  Warner's  "  Albion's 
England,"  and  in  Spenser's  "  Faery  Queen,"  (book  2,  canto 
10,)  where,  in  conformity  with  the  romance  and  chro- 
nicle, the  war  against  the  sisters  has  a  successful  termina- 
tion : — 

So  to  his  crown  she  him  restored  again, 

In  which  he  dyde,  made  ripe  for  death  by  eld. 

Gorboduc,  who  succeeded  to  the  crown  of  Britain,  soon 
after  the  death  of  Lear,  profited  so  little  by  the  example  of 
his  predecessor,  that  he  divided  his  realm  during  his  life 
between  his  two  sons,  Ferrex  and  Pol'rex,  whose  bloody  his- 
tory is  the  subject  of  the  first  regular  English  tragedy:  it 
was  written  by  Thomas  Norton  and  Thomas  Sackville  Lord 
Buckhurst,  was  acted  in  1561,  and  afterwards  printed  in 
1565,  under  the  name  of  Grorboduc.  Sir  Philip  Sidney  says  ^ 

^  The  Chronicle  of  Fabyan,  whiche  he  nameth  the  concordance  of 
histories  newly  perused,  and  continued  from  the  beginnyng  of  Kyng 
Heniy  the  Seventh  to  thende  of  Queen  Mary.  J.  Kyngston,  London, 
1559,  fol.  and  sevei-al  subsequent  editions. 

2  Defence  of  Foesie. 


CH.  III.]  PERCEFOREST.  241 

that  this  drama  climbs  to  the  height  of  Seneca,  and  Pope  has 
pronounced  the  much  higher  eulogy,  that  it  possesses  "  an 
unalieeted  persjncuity  of  style,  and  an  easy  flow  in  the 
numbers  ;  in  a  word,  that  chastity,  correctness,  and  gravity 
of  style,  which  are  so  essential  to  tragedy,  and  which  all  the 
tragic  poets  who  followed,  not  excepting  Shaksj^eare  him- 
self, either  little  understood  or  perpetually  neglected." 
Both  in  the  drama  and  romance,  the  j^rinces,  between  whom 
the  kingdom  had  been  divided,  soon  fell  to  dissension,  and 
the  younger  stabbed  the  elder  :^  the  mother,  who  more 
dearly  loved  the  elder,  having  killed  his  brother  in  revenge, 
the  people,  indignant  at  the  cruelty  of  the  deed,  rose  in  re- 
bellion, and  murdered  both  father  and  mother.  The  nobles 
then  assembled  and  destroyed  most  of  the  rebels,  but 
afterwards  became  embroiled  in  a  civil  war,  in  which  they 
and  their  issue  were  all  slain. 

Brennus  and  Belinus  were  the  first  monarchs  who  reigned 
over  the  almost  depopulated  country.  These  joint  sove- 
reigns, who,  we  are  informed,  with  rare  historical  confu- 
sion, were  contemporary  with  Artaxerxes,  king  of  Greece, 
having  subdued  Gaul,  iDesieged  and  burned  Rome  during 
the  consulship  of  Fabius  and  Porsenna  [i.  15]. 

At  length,  after  a  long  succession  of  princes  of  the  family 
of  Brutus,  his  race  fortunately  became  extinct  on  the  de- 
mise of  King  Pyr  [i.  1]  ;^  dimng  this  interregnum  the 
goddess  Venus  recommended  to  the  inhabitants  to  watch 
for  a  certain  time  on  the  sea- shore,  where  they  would  find 
a  king  properly  cjualified  to  govern  them. 

About  this  period  Alexander  the  Great  was  employed 
in  the  conquest  of  Asia.  Parmenio,  his  lieutenant,  slew 
Gaddiffer,  governor  of  Galde,  a  city  between  India  and 
Babylon,  who  had  imprudently  attacked  the  Greek  army, 
on  account  of  some  depredations  it  had  committed,  Alex- 
ander, who  was  a  generous  prince,  took  the  children  of 
Gaddiffer  under  his  protection,  and  in  a  great  battle  de- 
feated Claurus,  who  had  seized  on  their  territory.  Claurus 
was  killed  in  the  engagement,  and  his  son  Porus  taken 

^  In  the  Romance,  however,  the  younger  brother,  Forrex,  falls  in 
battle. — LiEB. 

2  This  Fyr  is  noticed  in  Wace's  "  Roman  de  Brut."  Edit.  Rouen, 
1836,  line  3,800. 

I.  B 


242  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

prisoner.  Alexander,  however,  restored  to  the  latter  his 
father's  kingdom,  on  condition  that  he  should  marry 
Feronas,  a  lady  of  whom  he  knew  that  Porus  was  ena- 
moured. Wives  are  also  provided  by  this  bounteous 
monarch  for  Betis,^  afterwards  called  Perceforest,  and  his 
brother  Gaddiffer,  the  two  sons  of  old  G-addiffer,  governor 
of  Galde. 

The  nuptials  of  Porus  were  celebrated  in  the  city  of 
Grlodof ard.  About  a  league  from  this  town,  there  was  an 
island  of  the  sea  called  Ciceron,^  where  Venus  was  wor- 
shipped. To  this  isle  Alexander  set  out  on  a  pilgrimage 
with  all  his  knights  [i.  19],  but  scarcely  had  they  sailed 
when  a  frightful  tempest  arose,  which  drove  their  fleet  on 
the  coast  of  England ;  and  a  frightful  tempest  it  must 
have  been  which  carried  a  fleet  from  the  East  Indies  to  the 
shores  of  Britain. 

Alexander  landed  with  his  barons  at  the  moment  the 
inhabitants,  in  obedience  to  the  oracle  of  Venus,  were 
waiting  by  the  sea- side  to  receive  a  king,  and  being  accord- 
ingly entreated  to  give  them  a  monarch,  he  crowned  Betis 
king  of  England,  and  Gaddiffer  of  Scotland.  The  Mace- 
donian hero  solemnized  their  coronation  by  the  institution 
of  tournaments,  of  which  the  intention  was  to  renovate  the 
ancient  valour  of  Britons,  who,  even  in  that  early  age,  were 
suspected  of  degenerating  from  their  forefathers.  These 
spectacles,  which  were  attended  by  all  the  ladies  and 
knights  of  the  surrounding  country,  are  described  at  full 
length  [i.  29-34]. 

After  the  tournaments  were  concluded.  King  Betis  con- 
ceived the  project  of  constructing  a  palace  from  the  wood 
of  the  forest  of  Glar,  which  enchanters  defended  by  the 
most  formidable  incantations.  Betis  accordingly  set  out 
on  this  expedition,  and  proceeded  a  considerable  way  in 
the  forest  without  experiencing  any  adventures.  At  length 
he  came  to  a  fountain,  where  stood  an  image  with  an  ivory 
horn,  which  the  statue  sounded  on  his  approach.  On  this 
warning,  the  magician  Darnant,  the  inhabitant  and  guar- 

^  Betis  was  the  name  of  the  brave  defender  of  Gaza  against  Alexander. 
2  Curtius,  iv.  6. 

^  The  modern  name  of  the  island  of  Cjthera,  of  old  sacred  to  Venus, 
is  Cerigo. 


CH.  III.]  PERCEFOREST.  243 

dian  of  the  grove,  issued  forth  in  knightly  armour.  A 
combat  ensued,  and  Darnant  being  defeated,  fled  away 
[i.  34].  Betis,  in  the  pursuit,  met  with  enchanted  rivers 
and  other  obstacles,  raised  by  the  power  of  magic.  He  at 
last  overtook  Darnant  at  the  gate  of  a  delightful  castle, 
but,  when  about  to  slay  him,  the  sorcerer  changed  himself 
to  the  resemblance  of  the  beautiful  Idorus,  the  wife  of 
Betis.  The  king  then  embraced  him  with  transport,  but 
received  a  wound  in  return,  on  which  he  instantly  cut  off 
the  head  of  the  magician.^  The  enchantments  were  now 
at  an  end,  and  Betis,  on  account  of  this  exploit,  acquired 
the  name  of  Perceforest  [i.  35,  36].  But  the  wood  was 
ever  after  knovm  by  the  name  of  the  forest  of  Daniant. 
We  are  told  in  the  romance  of  Lancelot  du  Lac,  that 
Merlin  was  conj&ned  by  his  mistress  in  the  forest  of  Dar- 
nant, "  qui  marchoit  a  la  mer  de  Cornouailles  et  a  la  mer  de 
Sorelloys."  "  The  idea  of  this  forest  may  have  arisen  from 
that  of  Marseilles,  in  Lucan's  "Pharsalia"  [iii.  399,  etc.], 
which  was  hewn  down  by  Caesar,  and  may  in  turn  have 
suggested  the  enchanted  wood  to  Tasso  [c.  xiii.  and  xviii.]. 
Like  Rinaldo,  Betis  surmounts  the  obstacles  presented  by 
necromancy  to  his  design.  As  the  resolution  of  the  Itahan 
hero  is  for  a  moment  shaken  by  a  demon  from  the  tree 
assuming  the  appearance  of  the  beautiful  Armida ;  so  the 
king  of  England  is  about  to  save  the  chief  magician,  who 
had  clothed  himself  with  the  form  of  the  fair  Idorus. 

The  labours  of  Perceforest  were  not  completed  by  the 
death  of  Darnant,  as  he  had  many  combats  to  sustain  with 
the  son  and  brothers  of  that  enchanter.  Alexander,  sur- 
prised at  his  delay  in  returning  from  the  forest,  set  out  in 
quest  of  him :  on  his  way  he  encountered  the  family  of 
Daniant,  and  carried  on  a  long  intrigue  with  Sibille,  the 
Lady  of  the  Lake  in  those  days,  from  which  amour  sj^rung 
the  ancestor  of  the  renowned  Arthur. 

After  the  termination  of  a  long  war  against  the  posterity 
of  Darnant,  of  which  the  siege  of  Malebranche  [i.  42-49] 
is  the  leading  incident,  tournaments  were  exhibited  by  the 
knights  of  a  new  order  of  chivalry,  instituted  by  Alexander 

*  See  Appendix,  No.  9. 

'  Cf.  Sorolois,  p.  253,  infra,  a  name  perhaps  suggested  by  CharoUais, 
or  Charolais,  a  district  of  France. 


244  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

and  Perceforest.  These  were  attended  by  the  hermit 
Pergambu,  who  had  been  a  companion  of  Brut,  and  seems 
to  have  lived  through  the  intervening  centuries  for  no  end 
but  to  be  present  at  these  tiresome  spectacles.  The  tour- 
naments being  concluded,  Alexander,  whom  we  have 
hitherto  seen  acting  so  conspicuous  a  part  in  this  romance, 
set  off  for  Babylon  [i.  162].  The  Macedonian  monarch 
was  introduced  into  many  other  tales  of  chivalry ;  he  was 
chiefly  indebted  for  his  romantic  decoration  to  a  fabulous 
account  of  his  conquests,  which  was  compiled  from  eastern 
fictions  by  Simeon  Seth,^  but  passed  under  the  name  of 
Callisthenes,  and  was  translated  into  almost  all  the  lan- 
guages of  Europe  during  the  middle  ages. 

About  the  time  that  Alexander  returned  to  Asia,  G-ad- 
differ,  the  brother  of  Perceforest,  went  to  take  possession 
of  his  kingdom  of  Scotland  [ii.  1],  of  which  country  there 
is  more  said  in  this  work  than  in  any  other  romance  of 
chivalry.  After  Gaddiffer  arrived  in  Scotland,  he  pro- 
ceeded on  an  excursion  through  his  dominions,  for  the 
sake  of  dispensing  justice  and  reforming  the  savage 
manners  of  his  subjects ;  and  the  king  and  his  courtiers, 
says  the  romance,  entered  on  the  deserts  of  Scotland,  and 
travelled  two  days  without  seeing  town,  castle,  or  human 
being.  At  length  they  came  to  a  delightful  meadow, 
through  which  a  fine  river  flowed.  The  king  regretted 
that  this  district  was  so  thinly  peopled,  but  at  length  per- 
ceived some  tame  cows,  and  children  of  ten  or  twelve  years 
of  age  running  amongst  them.  The  knight  Estonne  seized 
one  of  these  tender  savages,  who,  like  her  companions,  was 
clothed  with  a  sheep  skin,  but  proved  to  be  a  girl  of  twelve 
years  of  age.  She  was  extremely  handsome,  but  much 
more  remarkable  for  beauty  than  good  manners ;  for,  on 
looking  down,  the  knight  perceived  that  his  fair  prisoner 
was  gratifying  either  her  hunger  or  resentment,  by  demo- 
lishing the  neck  of  his  courser.  She  also  spoke  such  bad 
Greek  that  it  was  impossible  to  comprehend  her  verbal 
communications,  though  accompanied  by  gestures  un- 
usually energetic  [ii.  2]  .^ 

^  See  infra  at  pp.  specified  in  index. 

^  The  end  of  chap,  cxlii.  and  chap,  cxliii.  of  vol.  ii.  are  borrowed  from 
the  French  version  of  the  Disciplina  Clericalis. — Chastoiement  d'unpere  a 


CH.  III.]  PERCEPOREST.  245 

After  Gaddiffer  had  done  all  in  his  power  to  amend  the 
unpolished  fashions  of  his  infant  kingdom,  the  incidents 
related  have  but  a  very  remote  connection  with  his  history, 
or  that  of  his  brother  Perceforest,  the  titular  hero  of  the 
romance.  Everything  like  unity  of  action  is  disregarded, 
and  the  rest  of  the  work  is  occupied  with  the  insulated 
adventures  of  individual  knights.  A  great  proportion  of 
these  is  attributed  to  Estonne,  lord  of  the  Scotch  deserts. 
This  great  landed  proprietor  was  in  the  good  graces  of  a 
spirit  called  Zephyr,  who,  assuming  a  variety  of  shapes, 
carried  his  favourite  wherever  he  desired.  Estonne,  at 
length,  while  dozing  by  an  enchanted  fountain,  was  mur- 
dered by  Bruyant  Without  Faith  [iv.  8].  His  death  was 
revenged  by  his  son  Passelion  [iv.  14],  whose  adventures 
are  the  most  entertaining  in  the  latter  part  of  the  romance  ; 
when  only  two  years  old  he  became  a  paragon  of  chivalry, 
and  not  long  after  was  carried,  by  a  spirit,  around  Tartarus, 
in  a  manner  which  may  have  suggested  some  of  the  scenes 
in  the  Commedia  of  Dante. 

Near  the  middle  of  the  romance,  an  account  is  given  of 
the  invasion  of  Britain  by  Julius  Caesar.  This  chief  had 
landed  on  a  former  occasion,  but  had  been  worsted  in 
single  combat  by  the  British  knight  Lyonnel ;  his  second 
attempt  was  more  successful,  owing  to  the  treachery  of 
the  wife  of  Bethides,  son  of  Perceforest,  a  lady  to  whom 
the  author  assigns  an  intrigue  with  Luces,  a  Eoman  se- 
nator [iv.  22].  All  the  knights  of  Britain  were  destroyed 
in  a  great  battle.  Their  bodies  are  indeed  still  preserved 
in  Aran,  an  Irish  island,  where  the  climate  is  such  that 
nothing  can  decay ;  but  the  exploits  of  a  new  race  of 
heroes  fill  up  the  romance.  Of  these  the  chief  is  Gallifer, 
grandson  of  old  Gaddiffer,  king  of  Scotland,  who  expe- 
rienced innumerable  adventures  in  his  pursuit  of  the  lady 

son  fils — according  toF.  W.  V.  Schmidt  in  Wiener  Jahrb.,  bd.  29,  p.  116. 
It  is  remarkable  than  an  episode  in  Perceforest  was  printed  before  the 
appearance  of  the  whole  romance  as  a  separate  work.  This  was  "  His- 
toire  du  Chevalier  aux  armes  dorees,  et  de  la  pucelle  Coeur  d'acier,"  and 
is  mentioned  in  Melanges  tires  d'une  Grande  Eibliotheqiie,  vol.  5,  p.  132, 
as  having  been  printed  between  1480-1490,  without  date.  The  Chevalier 
aux  amies  dorees  is  doubtless  Nestor,  Gadditfer's  second  son,  whose  ad- 
ventures extend,  in  the  longer  romance  from  chap,  cxliii.  of  vol.  ii.  to 
the  end  of  vol.  iii. — Ibid. 


246  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

with  two  dragons  [v.  1-6,  31].  He  also  put  an  end  to 
tlie  encliantments  at  the  tomb  of  Darnant,  which  seems  to 
have  been  the  rendezvous  of  all  the  evil  spirits  in  Great 
Britain  [vi.  2].  At  length,  having  delivered  his  country 
from  the  anarchy  in  which  it  was  left  by  the  Romans,  he 
was  acknowledged  as  sovereign  of  Britain,  but  did  not 
long  enjoy  this  exaltation,  as  he  was  expelled  by  Scapiol,^ 
a  German  knight,  who  usurped  the  throne  [vi.  57].^  Olofer, 
one  of  the  deposed  monarch's  sons,  became  a  great  favourite 
of  the  new  king ;  the  other,  named  Gallafer,  retired  to  a 
distant  part  of  the  island,  at  first  studied  astronomy,  and 
afterwards  founded  a  new  sovereignty  [vi.  62,  etc.]. 

In  this  kingdom  the  royal  astronomer  was  visited  and 
converted  by  Alain,^  a  Christian  disciple,  who  persuaded 
him  to  change  his  heathenish  name  of  Gallafer  into 
Ai'faren.  He  soon  after  resigned  his  crown  to  Josue, 
Alain's  brother,  and  proceeded  to  preach  the  gospel  to  his 
ancestors,  Perceforest  and  Gaddiffer,  who,  the  reader  will 
be  surprised  to  hear,  were  yet  in  existence,  and  residing  in 
the  island  of  Life  (I'isle  de  vie,  perhaps  Wight) .  Perceforest 
had  been  severely  handled  in  the  wars  with  the  Romans ;  he 
had  received  twelve  mortal  wounds  on  the  head ;  he  had 
left  his  right  hand  on  the  field  of  battle ;  the  other  hung 
by  a  fibre ;  his  belly  was  laid  open  in  four  places,  and  he 
was  lame  of  his  left  foot.  In  this  fractional  state  he  had 
passed  into  the  island  of  Life,  where  he  was  joined  by  his 
brother  Gaddiffer,  and  afterwards  by  the  deposed  Gallifer. 
On  landing  on  this  island,  'King  Arfaran  beheld  a  temple, 
and,  looking  in,  perceived  a  group  of  worshippers  before 
the  altar.  They  were  clothed  in  sheep's-skins  ;  their  hair, 
whiter  than  snow,  descended  to  their  heels ;  their  beards 
covered  their  breasts,  and  thence  extended  to  their  knees. 
These  antiques  consisted  of  Dardanon,  who  had  come  to 
Britain  soon  after  Brut ;  Gaddiffer,  with  his  queen  ;  Galli- 
fer, and  the  relics  of  Perceforest.  King  Arfaran  having 
given  them  an  abridgment  of    the  doctrines  of   the  Old 

^  Perhaps  a  reminiscence  of  Ostorius  Scapula,  governor  of  Britain, 
with  the  title  of  propraetor,     (a.d.  50-51.) 

2  Towards  the  close  of  the  work  (vi.  56),  we  find  the  author  making 
use  of  the  gospel  of  Nicodemus. — F.  W.  V.  Schmidt  in  Wiener  Jahrb., 
bd.  29,  p.  116. 

3  See  supra,  the  Graal  Romance,  p.  166. 


CH.  III.]  PERCEFOREST.  247 

and  New  Testament,  and  baptised  them  [vi.  66],  they  ex- 
pressed a  j^reat  desire  of  death.  For  this  special  purpose 
they  departed  from  the  isle  of  Life,  and  arrived  on  a  shore 
where  five  meniiments  had  spontaneously  arisen  for  their 
accommodation.  Dardanon,  as  the  oldest,  is  honoured 
with  sepulchral  precedence,  and  the  rest  follow  according  to 
seniority.  These  monuments  may  have  suggested  to  Tasso, 
the  self -formed  sepidchre  which  rose  to  receive  the  body 
of  Sueno  (Gerus.  Lib.  c.  8  ;)  and  that  which  in  his  Rinaldo 
miracidously  enclosed  the  Knight  of  the  Tomb  (c.  7).^ 

In  this  romance  the  concluding  incident  of  the  tombs  is 
indeed  abundantly  ludicrous,  but  it  has  been  rendered 
impressive  by  description.  Nothing  can  be  better  painted 
than  the  voyage  from  the  isle  of  Life,  and  arrival  at  the 
imknown  solitary  shore ;  the  mysterious  voice  directing 
whither  to  proceed ;  the  midnight  journey  through  the 
wood ;  the  five  monuments  rising  under  the  light  of  the 
moon ;  the  gradual  decay  of  the  venerable  band,  and  the 
voluntary  resignation  of  their  breath  into  the  hands  of 
their  Creator. 

Indeed,  ludicrous  incident  and  beautiful  description 
form  the  chief  characteristics  of  the  work.  I  know  no 
romance  of  chivaliy  which  more  abounds  in  the  beauties 
and  faidts  of  that  species  of  composition ;  all  unity  of 
action,  probability,  and  chronological  accuracy  are  laid 
aside ;  but  there  is  an  endless  variety  of  enchantments, 
and  a  wonderful  luxuriance  of  description. 

There  is  a  great  difference  among  the  romances  concern- 
ing the  early  history  of  Great  Britain,  with  regard  to  the 
introduction  of  marvellous  embellishments.  Thus  it  is 
impossible  to  conceive  two  works  more  completely  different 
than  Perceforest  and  Meliadus,  of  which  we  have  formerly 
given  an  account.  The  latter  is  almost  entirely  filled  with 
descriptions  of  battles  and  tournaments,  and  is  adorned 
with  no  supernatural  ornaments.  Perceforest,  on  the 
other  hand,  abounds  with  evil  spirits,  fairies,  enchanters, 
and  all  those  specious  wonders  which  constitute  the  soul 
of  romance.    Dreams,  too,  and  visions,  which  we  have  seen 

^  Compare  also  the  legend  of  the  Mausoleum  which  rose  miraculously 
to  cover  the  body  of  St.  Clement,  who  was  said  to  have  been  cast  into 
the  sea  in  the  reign  of  Trajan. 


248  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

were  so  much  used  by  Heliodorus,  Tatius,  etc.,  and  so 
little  in  the  other  romances  of  chivalry,  are  common  in 
Perceforest. 

From  the  endless  variety  of  enchantments  it  contains, 
this  romance  is,  perhaps,  the  most  entertaining,  and  has 
become  the  most  popular  of  the  class  with  which  it  has 
been  ranged.  In  consequence  of  the  information  it  com- 
prehends concerning  the  manners  of  the  period  in  which 
it  was  written,  especially  the  solemnities  observed  at  tour- 
naments, and  the  costume  of  our  ancestors,  it  is  also  the 
most  instructive,  and  has  been  chosen  as  a  text-book  by 
M.  de  Sainte  Palaye,  and  other  inquirers  into  the  history 
and  habits  of  the  middle  ages.  It  is  said  that  Perceforest 
was  one  of  the  books  which  Charles  IX.,  during  his  educa- 
tion, chiefly  busied  himself  in  reading ;  and  that  to  this 
study  he  was  enjoined  (I  cannot  discover  with  what  view) 
by  his  mother  Catherine  de  Medicis. 

Mr.  Warton  informs  us  [without,  however,  adducing 
authority  for  the  statement,]  that  Perceforest  was  origi- 
nally written  in  verse  about  the  year  1220.  It  is  difficult 
to  say  precisely  at  what  time  it  was  reduced  to  prose,  but 
it  was  probably  subsequent  to  the  annexation  of  Dau- 
phiny  to  the  crown  of  France,  as  the  son  of  the  King  of 
Galles  (Wales)  is  called  the  dauphin,  which,  I  think, 
also  proves  that  the  author  was  a  Frenchman.  With 
regard  to  his  name  I  cannot  give  even  the  inconsistent 
information  which  I  have  collected  concerning  the  other 
writers  of  romance.^  There  is  nothing  said  on  this  sub- 
ject in  the  preface,  which  is  merely  an  addi-ess  to  the 
French  nobility,  loaded  with  extravagant  comj^liments, 
and  containing  a  summary  of  the  whole.  The  author  just 
hints  that  he  had  borrowed  the  incidents,  contained  in 
Perceforest,  from  a  preceding  work.     It  is  in  the  second 

^  The  MS.  Perceforest  in  the  British  Museum  is,  according  to  the  pro- 
logue prefixed  thereto,  revised  bj  David  Aubert,  Librarian  to  Philip  the 
Good,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  in  1419-1467.  This  MS.  does  not  altogether 
agree  with  the  work  as  printed.  A  veiy  curious  phase  of  the  sleeping 
beauty  myth  is  found  in  the  romance  of  Perceforest.  "  Zellandine  is  de- 
livered of  a  child  in  her  sleep  ;  the  child  is  laid  by  her  side,  clutches  at 
one  of  her  fingers,  and  sucks  it,  and  presently  begins  to  cough  ;  the 
mother  awakes,  and  the  child  coughs  up  the  sleep-thorn," — Ward's  Cat., 
vol.  i.,  pp.  377-381. 


CH.  III.]  PERCEFOREST.  249 

chapter  that  the  fabulous  story  of  its  origin  is  related. 
We  are  there  told  that  Philip,  Count  of  Hainault,  attended 
the  daughter  of  the  King  of  France  to  England,  in  order 
to  be  present  at  her  nuptials  with  Edward,  which  were 
celebrated  in  1286.  During  the  count's  residence  in 
England,  he  went  on  an  excursion  to  the  northern  part  of 
the  kingdom,  and  arnved  one  day  at  a  monastery  situated 
on  the  banks  of  the  Humber.  The  abbot  received  him 
with  much  politeness,  and  conducted  him  through  the 
apartments  of  the  convent.  Among  other  places  they 
entered  an  old  tower,  which  was  then  repairing,  where 
the  abbot  pointed  out  a  vault  in  the  deep  walls,  which  had 
lately  been  discovered  by  the  workmen.  He  informed  his 
guest  that  in  this  vault  there  had  been  foimd  an  old  chro- 
nicle which  no  one  could  read,  till  a  Greek  Clerc  having 
come  to  study  philosophy  in  this  country,  translated  it 
from  the  Greek  into  the  Latin  language.  The  count  in- 
sisted on  having  a  loan  of  the  Latin  version ;  and,  on  his 
return  to  his  own  territories,  he  took  it  with  him  to  Hain- 
ault, where  it  was  coj)ied.  We  are  farther  told  in  the 
course  of  the  work,  that  the  first  part  of  this  MS.  was 
originally  written  by  Cressus,  mattre  d'hotel  to  Alexander 
the  Great.  To  Cressus  the  knights  every  year  related 
their  exploits  on  oath.  He  was  thus  enabled  to  make  a 
compilation,  which  was  preserved  by  Paustoimet,  a  min- 
strel, and  read  by  his  son  Pousson  at  the  coronation  of 
King  Gallifer.  With  this  recital  the  court  were  so  much 
delighted,  that  Pousson  was  commanded  by  the  king  to 
continue  the  adventures  of  the  knights  of  his  own  period, 
and  his  labours  accordingly  formed  the  last  part  of  the 
romance  of  Perceforest  [vi.  31]. 

The  whole  work  occupies  three  volumes  folio,  which  were 
first  printed  in  1528,  Gaily ot  du  Pre,  at  Paris,  and  after- 
wards at  the  same  place  in  1531,  2. 

It  has  already  been  mentioned  that  there  are  two 
romances  which  recount  events  subsequent  to  those  con- 
cerning Arthur  or  his  knights — Artus  de  la  Bretagne,  and 
Cleriadus,  both  of  which  may  be  regarded  as  continuations 
of  the  fabulous  history  of  the  Pound  Table.  The  authors 
of  these  works  do  not  fix  the  period  in  which  these  two 
descendants  of  the  great  Arthur  flourished ;  but  the  ro- 


250  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

mances  themselves  liave  no  doubt  been  composed  at  a  date 
mucli  posterior  to  Lancelot  or  Tristan. 

Aetus  de  la  Bretagne/ 

wbicli,  I  think,  is  the  earliest  of  the  two,  is  supj^osed  by 
the  authors  of  the  Bibliotheque  des  Romans,  to  have  been 
written  during  the  reign  of  Charles  VI.  of  France  (1380 
—1422), — First,  because  the  decorations  given  to  the 
knights  and  heroines  are  the  same  with  those  which  were 
in  fashion  while  Charles  swayed  the  sceptre ;  and,  secondly, 
because  the  language  is  nearly  of  the  same  antiquity  with 
that  of  Froissard,  who  lived  in  the  time  of  that  monarch. 
In  the  court  of  his  queen,  Isabella  of  Bavaria,  it  is  said, 
splendour  and  gallantry  reigned  in  spite  of  disorder  and 
proscription. — Festivals  and  tournaments  were  revived  by 
her  to  amuse  the  clouded  mind  of  her  husband,  or  occupy 
his  attention  when  gleams  of  reason  disclosed  to  him  the 
miseries  of  his  kingdom. — These  exhibitions  served  to 
relume  that  romantic  spirit  of  chivalry  which  had  blazed 
with  so  much  lustre  in  the  better  ages  of  France,  and  which 
was  not  unsuitable  to  the  character  of  its  unfortunate 
monarch. 

I  suspect,  however,  that  too  early  a  date  has  been 
assigned  to  this  as  to  most  other  romances  of  chivalry ;  and 
there  is  good  reason  to  suppose  that  it  was  not  written  till 
some  years  after  the  accession  of  Charles  VIII.,  who 
ascended  the  throne  in  1483.  The  subject  of  the  romance 
is  the  adventures  of  a  duke  of  Britany,  and  the  disgrace  of 
Perona,  an  Austrian  princess,  whose  alliance  having  been 
solicited,  was  finally  rejected  by  the  heir  to  that  dukedom, 
under  circumstances  by  no  means  creditable  to  the  lady, 
after  she  had  arrived  at  his  court.  Now,  it  is  well  known, 
that  in  1489,  the  French  council  determined  to  send  hack 

^  Published  in  1493,  under  the  title  of  Le  Petit  Artus  de  Bretaigne, 
and  republished  at  Lyons  in  1496,  and  at  Paris  in  1502  and  1514.  An 
English  translation  by  John  Boui-chier,  Lord  Berners,  appeared  early  in 
the  sixteenth  century,  and  a  second  edition  about  1520-30.  This  was 
republished  in  1814,  with  a  critical  preface  by  E.  V,  Utterson,  who 
places  the  composition  of  the  French  original  in  the  beginning  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  before  the  accession  of  John  III.  to  the  Duchy  of 
Britany.     (See  Ward,  Cat.,  p.  382,  and  Lieb.) 


CH.  III.]  ARTUS    DE    LA    BRETAGNE.  251 

the  princess  Margaret  of  Austria,  daughter  of  Maximilian, 
to  whom  the  youug  monarch  had  been  long  betrothed,  and 
who  had  arrived  at  Paris,  where  she  bore  the  title  of 
Madame  la  Dauphine.  At  the  same  time  the  council  re- 
solved to  demand  Anne  of  Britany  in  her  place,  and  the 
nuptials  by  which  that  last  great  fief  was  united  to  the 
dominions  of  France,  were  celebrated  in  1491.  Now  the 
romance  of  Arthur  of  Britany  was  first  printed  in  1493, 
and  I  have  little  doubt  was  written  immediately  before  its 
publication,  during  these  important  transactions  at  the 
court  of  France,  in  order  to  compliment  the  new  queen  by 
celebrating  the  exploits  of  her  ancestors,  and  recording  the 
disgrace  of  her  rival.  The  language  of  the  romance,  I 
confess,  appears  somewhat  too  ancient  for  the  close  of  the 
fifteenth  century;  but  it  was  natural  for  an  author  of 
romance  and  chivalry,  rather  to  adopt  the  phraseology 
which  was  falling  into  disuse,  than  to  affect  a  style  which 
had  recently  come  into  vogue. 

The  distinguished  part  which  Anne  of  Britany  performed 
on  the  political  theatre  of  France,  during  the  reigns  of 
Charles  Vlil.  and  Lewis  XII.,  to  whom  she  was  succes- 
sively united ;  and  the  great  popularity  of  her  character, 
may  have  contributed  to  the  circulation  of  Artus  de  la  Bre- 
tagne,  of  which  there  were  three  editions  subsequent  to  that 
in  1493 ;  one  in  4to,  1502 ;  a  second  in  1539,  and  the  last 
in  1584. 

This  romance  comprehends  the  adventui'es  of  Arthur, 
son  of  John  duke  of  Britany,  who  was  descended  from  the 
celebrated  Lancelot  du  Lac.  A  renowned  knight,  called 
Gouvemau  from  his  employment,  was  appointed  tutor  to 
this  young  prince.  One  day,  while  engaged  in  the  plea- 
sures of  the  chase,  the  preceptor  and  his  pupil  being  sepa- 
rated from  their  party  in  a  forest,  arrive  at  a  cottage, 
where  an  elderly  lady,  whose  husband  had  been  once  a 
powerful  baron,  resided  with  her  daughter  Jeannette. 
Arthur  is  enchanted  with  the  beauty  of  the  damsel,  be- 
stows on  her  the  revenues  of  the  spot,  and  often  repeats 
his  visit.^ 

The  mother  of  Arthur,  afraid,  from  his  frequent  absence, 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  10. 


252  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

that  lie  is  about  to  be  betrayed  into  an  alliance  unsuitable 
to  bis  birtb,  proposes  to  the  duke  to  demand  Perona, 
daughter  of  the  duchess  of  Austria,  in  marriage  for  their 
son.  This  young  lady  possessed  but  an  indifferent  reputa- 
tion, and  the  duke  for  some  time  declines  the  connection, 
but  is  at  last  forced  to  consent  to  the  wishes  of  his  wife. 
The  seneschal  is  sent  as  a  proxy,  and  Perona,  who  had 
cogent  reasons  to  accelerate  her  nuptials,  arrives  soon  after 
with  great  ceremony  at  Nantes  [c.  9] . 

During  the  preparations  for  his  marriage,  Arthur  con- 
tinues to  frequent  the  cottage.  He  finds  Jeannette  less 
troubled  than  he  expected  by  the  news  of  his  approaching 
nuptials ;  she  merely  informs  him,  that  she  also  was  about 
to  be  united,  that  her  intended  husband  resembled  Arthur 
in  form,  and  was  matchless  in  nobility  and  power. 

These  ambiguous  expressions  of  Jeannette,  and  her  ap- 
parent indifference,  are  accounted  for  in  the  following 
manner : — During  the  preparations  for  the  marriage, 
Lucca,  the  mother  of  Perona,  had  been  in  some  tribulation, 
as  she  was  aware  of  the  backsliding  of  her  daughter. 
Ancel,  one  of  her  knights,  for  he  too  was  in  the  secret, 
suggests  to  the  Austrian  family  a  stratagem  similar  to 
that  which  for  some  time  preserved  the  fame  of  Yseult  of 
Cornwall.  He  explains  that  there  is  a  damsel  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood called  Jeannette,  whose  mother  might  be  bribed 
to  lend  her  daughter  as  a  substitute  for  Perona  till  Arthur 
should  fall  asleep,  after  which  the  princess  could  occupy 
the  place  that  was  allotted  her  without  hazard  of 
detection. 

In  pursuit  of  this  speculation  Ancel  proceeds  to  the 
cottage.  He  finds  the  mother  little  disposed  to  engage  in 
this  sort  of  traffic ;  but  Jeannette  overpowers  all  scruples 
by  a  torrent  of  argument,  which  may  have  been  satisfac- 
tory to  herself  on  the  score  of  her  future  intentions,  but 
certainly  possessed  very  little  plausibility  for  the  conviction 
of  others  [c.  11]. 

The  nuptials  of  Arthur  and  Perona  are  solemnized,  and 
Jeannette  performs  the  part  she  had  chosen.  It  seems  to 
have  been  the  custom  in  Britany  that  on  the  night  after  a 
marriage  the  husband  should  present  his  wife  with  a  ring 
and  act  of  dowry.     Jeannette  does  not  neglect  to  demand 


CH.  III.]  ARTUS    DE    LA    BRETAGNE.  253 

the  performance  of  this  ceremony,  hoping  that  she  will 
thus  be  entitled  to  assert  claims  to  Arthur  as  her  hus- 
band. Fortified  with  these  credentials,  she  readily  resigns 
her  place  to  Perona  when  the  opportunity  is  presented 
[c.  12]. 

Arthur  next  morning  pays  a  visit  to  Jeannette,  who 
produces  the  ring ;  and  at  the  same  time  gives  him  some 
insight  into  the  character  of  Perona.  This  lady  is  also  a 
good  deal  nonplussed  on  being  asked  by  the  duke  to  show 
him  the  act  of  dowry.  Gouvemau,  who  had  been  at  the 
cottage  with  Arthur  on  his  last  visit,  reveals  the  whole 
story  on  his  return.  Jeannette  is  confronted  with  the 
Austrian  family,  and  Perona  is  utterly  disgraced.  Lucca 
leaves  the  court  with  her  daughter,  and  when  they  came  to 
the  fields  the  mother  began  to  lament,  and  Perona  was  so 
much  grieved  that  she  died ;  at  which,  says  the  romance, 
Arthur  and  his  court  had  great  joy,  and  Jeannette  above 
all  the  rest. 

Now  Arthiu-  remained  with  Jeannette  four  years  in  his 
father's  court.  At  the  end  of  this  period  he  has  a  dream, 
in  which  Florence,  his  predestined  consort,  appears  to  him, 
and  his  other  adventures  are  very  clearly  portrayed  by  a 
vision  of  eagles  and  griffins.  Arthur  is  induced  by  this 
dream  to  ask  leave  of  his  father  to  travel  in  quest  of  his 
future  mistress.  This  being  granted,  he  sets  out  with  his 
cousin  Hector,  son  of  the  Count  of  Blois,  Gouvemau,  and 
a  squire  [c.  15]. 

At  this  time  a  king  called  Emendus  reigned  in  Sorolois,^ 
an  empire  little  known  in  modem  geography,  but  which 
the  romance  declares  to  be  situated  in  the  heart  of  Meso- 
potamia. This  monarch  had  four  vassal  kings,  who  ruled 
over  the  uncouth  lands  of  Normal,  YaKondee,  &c.,  and  a 
queen  called  Fenice,  who  possessed  the  contiguous  terri- 
tories of  Constantinople  and  Denmark.  On  one  occasion 
the  royal  pair  held  their  court  at  Corinth,  and  gave  a  grand 
festival  to  their  peers,  at  which  the  queen  sat  on  the  right 
hand  of  the  king.  It  would  appear  that  her  majesty  had 
intended  to  take  the  liberty  of  bringing  forth  in  presence 
of  her  court,  but  the  king  of  Yrcania  having  looked  at  her, 

^  Cf.  Sorelloys,  p.  243. 


254  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

declared  she  must  instantly  retire  to  the  place  where  the 
king  wished  her  to  be  confined.  A  discussion  arose  at 
table  concerning  the  most  suitable  situation.  At  length  it 
was  determined  that  the  castle  of  the  Black  Gate  (Porte 
Noire,)  lying  on  the  Perilous  Mount,  guarded  by  every 
species  of  monster,  and  surrounded  by  a  river,  abounding 
in  all  sorts  of  vermin,  would  be  the  most  commodious  spot 
for  the  ensuing  parturition.  Another  advantage  of  this 
situation  was,  that  the  castle  belonged  to  a  fairy  called 
Proserpine,  who,  if  duly  propitiated,  might  bestow  a  num- 
ber of  fine  qualities  on  the  infant.  The  daughter  to  whom 
the  queen  gives  birth  receives  the  name  of  Florence.  She 
is  educated  with  Stephen,  son  to  the  king  of  Valfondee, 
and  proves,  when  she  grows  up,  a  miracle  of  beauty 
[c.19]. 

The  great  object  of  Arthur  is  the  quest  of  this  incom- 
parable princess ;  but  he  is  frequently  diverted  from  his 
chief  design  by  the  enticements  held  out  to  him  in  the 
destruction  of  monsters  and  giants.  His  exploits,  how- 
ever, principally  consist  in  disenchanting  castles,  one  of 
which  is  the  Porte  Noire,  the  birth-place  of  Florence, 
where  an  image,  holding  a  hat  which  it  was  foredoomed  to 
place  on  the  head  of  the  destined  husband  of  Florence,  had 
been  in  attendance  from  time  immemorial.^  But  the  period 
of  this  inauguration  was  not  yet  arrived.  Arthur  had  still 
to  encounter 

fierce  faces  threatening  wars, 

Giants  of  mighty  bone  and  bold  emprise. 

In  these  exploits  he  is  neither  assisted  by  Hector  of  Blois, 
whom  at  the  beginning  of  his  career  he  had  married  to  the 
countess  of  Brueil,  a  lady  whom  he  had  freed  from  her 
enemies,  nor  does  Grouvernau  attend  him  in  many  of  his 
expeditions,  but  experiences  separate,  though  similar,  ad- 
ventures. He  is  frequently  enabled,  however,  to  track 
Arthur  by  the  carcases  he  finds  on  the  roads  ;  and  he 
walked,  says  the  romance,  till  he  saw  ten  robbers  lying 
slain ;  then  Grouvemau  said  to  Jaquet,  My  lord  has  been 
here  [c.  57]. 

^  Cf.  the  statue  du  eommandeur  in  Don  Juan.  Note  also  the  current 
phrase,  "  if  the  cap  fits,"  etc. 


CH.  III.]  ARTUS    DE    LA.    BRETAGNE.  255 

But  Arthui'  occasionally  meets  with  a  different  species  of 
allurement  from  that  presented  in  an  intercourse  with 
giants  and  monsters.  Proserpine,  the  protecting  fairy  of 
Florence,  in  order  to  try  his  fidelity  to  her  protegee,  risks 
her  own  honour  by  throwing  herself  in  his  way  at  the  foot 
of  an  oak  in  a  forest  he  was  traversing.  Nor  is  this  vigi- 
lant fairy  satisfied  with  one  experiment.  She  contrives  a 
plot  by  which  Arthur  comes  to  her  palace,  where  her  own 
blandishments  being  again  resisted,  she  employs  one  of  her 
damsels,  who  is  treated  with  an  indifference  as  satisfactory 
to  Proserpine  as  provoking  to  the  damsel,  who  did  not  feel 
the  same  interest  as  the  fairy  in  this  triumph  of  constancy 
[c.  54]. 

Florence,  in  the  mean  time,  was  exposed  to  similar  diffi- 
culties. The  emperor  of  India  had  demanded  her  in  mar- 
riage, and  had  lately  arrived  at  her  father's  court  to 
prosecute  his  suit  in  person.  This  alliance  was  as  accept- 
able to  King  Emendus  as  it  was  disagreeable  to  the  party 
chiefly  interested.  Matters,  however,  having  come  to  a 
crisis,  Florence  is  obhged  to  request  that  the  celebration 
of  her  nuptials  be  deferred  till  a  splendid  tournament  is 
proclaimed,  the  fame  of  which  she  trusts  will  lead  Arthur 
to  court ;  for  of  his  approach  and  attachment  she  had  been 
apprized  by  her  confidant  Stephen,  who  had  met  with  him 
at  Porte  Noire  and  other  places  [c.  22]. 

Arthur,  according  to  expectation,  appears  at  the  tourna- 
ment, and  Florence  obtains  an  interview  with  him,  by  the 
intervention  of  Stej^hen,  or  the  Master,  as  he  is  generally 
called  [c.  61]. 

On  the  first  day  of  the  toui-naments  Arthur  greatly  dis- 
tinguishes himself,  and  Florence,  in  order  that  her  lover 
might  not  be  exhausted  with  two  days  continued  exertion, 
feigns  sickness  on  the  following  morning,  and  requests 
that  the  tournament  be  delayed.  "  Aura  elle  ce  meschef," 
says  Emendus,  on  hearing  of  the  illness  of  his  daughter, 
**  Je  serois  courrouce  si  elle  se  moiu'oit  sans  hoir  de  son 
corps."  [c.  63.]  This  paternal  monarch  is  conducted  to 
the  chamber  of  Florence  by  Stephen,  who  there  commences 
a  harangue,  which  may  give  some  idea  of  the  mode  of 
managing  sick  princesses  in  those  times.  "  My  lady,  God 
to-day  has  done  you  great  honour.     Never  were  there  so 


256  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

many  people  assembled  by  the  sickness  of  a  princess  as  there 
are  to  visit  you ;  for  here  is  an  emperor,  ten  kings,  thirty 
dukes,  and  the  whole  chivalry  of  the  sovereign  of  India." 

But  in  this  chamber  there  was  something  still  more  im- 
portant than  all  this  blaze  of  quality.  In  a  corner  of  the 
room  stood  the  image  with  the  hat,  which  Stephen,  who 
dabbled  in  magic,  had  lately  smuggled  from  Porte  Noire 
by  a  stroke  of  necromancy.  The  company  assembled  are 
informed  that  the  person  on  whom  this  statue  confers  the 
hat  will  be  acknowledged  as  the  husband  of  Florence. 
The  emperor  of  India  first  presents  himself,  but  the  image 
continues  motionless.  To  the  vassal  kings  of  Emendus  it 
is  equally  unpropitious  ;  till  at  length  Arthur  ap]3roaching 
receives  the  token  that  was  reserved  for  him  [c.  64] . 

In  spite  of  this  unequivocal  demonstration  on  the  part 
of  the  image,  Emendus  still  persists  in  his  intention  of 
bestowing  his  daughter  on  the  emperor  of  India.  This 
resolution  compels  Florence  to  fly  to  the  Porte  Noire,  ac- 
companied by  the  kings  and  knights  who  were  friendly  to 
her  cause ;  while  the  fairy  Proserpine,  who  exactly  resem- 
bled her  in  figure,  occupies  her  place  at  court.  The  im- 
posture, however,  being  at  length  detected,  Florence  is 
l3esieged  in  Porte  Noire  by  her  father  and  the  emperor  of 
India  with  immense  armies.  During  the  siege,  Proserpine 
is  observed  by  the  latter  flying  from  the  castle.  As  she 
had  assumed  the  shape  of  Florence,  he  overtakes  her,  and 
extorts  a  promise  of  marriage.  Then,  having  assured  her 
of  his  protection,  he  conducts  her  to  Emendus,  who,  on 
her  entrance,  salutes  her  with  his  foot.  This  commentary 
on  her  returning  obedience  not  being  rehshed  by  the  em- 
peror, a  squabble  arises  between  the  monarchs,  during 
which  Proserpine  disappears,  and  the  emperor  soon  after 
retires  to  his  own  country  [c.  71]. 

The  night  succeeding  his  departure,  Stephen  throws  the 
whole  army  of  Emendus  into  a  profound  sleep,  and  then, 
with  the  assistance  of  five  knights,  conveys  the  king,  while 
in  bed,  to  Porte  Noire.  ^     By  this  trick  of  legerdemain  he 

^  In  Les  Quatre  Filz  Aymon  (c.  23)  is,  by  a  similar  device,  transported  , 

by  Malagis,  or  Maugis,  into  Montalban,  which  was  besieged  by  him.  f 

Indeed  the  figure  of  Master  Stephen  seems  in  general  to  have  been  * 
borrowed  from  that  of  the  magician  Malagis. — Lieb. 


CH.  III.]  ARTUS    DE    LA    BRETAGNE.  257 

is  obliged,  when  lie  awakes,  to  give  liis  consent  to  his 
daughter's  marriage  with  Arthur.  Previous  to  their  union 
that  prince  2:>ays  a  visit  to  Britany,  where  he  has  rather  an 
awkward  interview  with  Jeannette.  On  his  return  to 
Porte  Noire,  he  is  accompanied  by  a  number  of  the  peers 
of  France,  the  duke  and  duchess,  and  also  Jeannette, 
whose  presence  was  certainly  superfluous.  Stephen  on  the 
journey  informs  Arthur,  that  he  had  discovered  by  his 
books  that  Florence  had  left  Porte  Noire,  and  was  now 
besieged  in  the  White  Tower  by  the  emperor  of  India,  who 
had  returned  to  the  war.  Arthur  is  advised  to  proceed 
thither  with  his  host,  but  he  determines  on  a  plan  of 
action  more  suited  to  his  impatience,  and  to  his  confidence 
in  his  own  prowess  [c.  11\  He  presses  forward  in  dis- 
guise, followed  by  three  knights,  to  the  White  Tower, 
where  he  signalizes  his  arrival  by  cutting  up  a  whole  army, 
with  wounds  that  exhibit  great  anatomical  variety.  His 
other  fi'iends  having  come  up  soon  after,  the  gates  of  the 
White  Tower  are  purposely  left  open,  and  the  emperor, 
thinking  it  defenceless,  enters  with  the  remains  of  his 
army,  still  amounting  to  fifty  thousand  men.  These  are 
speedily  despatched ;  the  emperor  himself  is  taken  prisoner, 
and  soon  after  dies  of  grief. 

No  farther  obstacle  remaining  to  the  marriage  of  Arthur, 
a  splendid  tournament  celebrates  the  triple  nuj^tials  of 
Arthur  with  Florence,  Gouvernau  with  Jeannette,  and 
Stephen  the  Master  with  Margaret,  a  princess  whom 
Arthur  had  reinstated  in  her  kingdom  early  in  the  romance 
[c.  50]. 

Florence  in  due  season  produces  a  son,  whom  the  accu- 
rate romancer  informs  us  she  conceived  the  night  of  the 
espousals.  The  birth  of  this  child  King  Emendus  solem- 
nizes by  dying  of  joy.  Arthur  is,  of  course,  crowned  king 
of  Sorolois ;  he"  reigned,  says  the  romance,  thirty-two  years, 
and  left  the  care  of  his  child,  and  all  that  he  possessed,  to 
Hector,  Gouvernau,  and  the  Master — "et  d'autre  chose 
plus  rien  n'en  diet  I'histoire,  ains  elle  se  tait." 

The  chief  excellence  of  the  romance  of  Artus  de  la  Bre- 
tagne  is,  that  it  possesses  more  unity  of  design  than  the 
works  of  the  same  nature  by  which  it  was  preceded.  The 
story  of  Jeannette  at  the  beginning  is  indeed  episodical, 

I.  s 


258  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

but  it  is  discussed  in  fourteen  chapters,  and  through  the 
remainder  of  the  work  the  adventures  relate  to  one  com- 
mon original,  the  object  that  appeared  in  the  dream ;  and 
to  one  common  end,  the  union  of  Arthur  and  Florence. 
Accordingly,  the  chief  employment  of  Arthur  is  the  search 
of  Florence,  and  her  deliverance  from  the  power  of  the 
emperor  ;  and  though  these  objects  be  occasionally  lost  sight 
of  by  the  irresistible  temptations  thrown  out  by  giants  or 
monsters,  they  are  never  entirely  abandoned.  But  in 
Tristan,  Meliadus,  Perceforest,  and  the  older  romances, 
there  is  no  permanent  motive  that  inspires  the  action.  In 
them  the  momentary  gratification  of  passion,  an  occa- 
sional display  of  valour,  and  a  concluding  paroxysm  of  de- 
votion, comjmse  the  incidents  of  the  romance. 

Neither  is  there  any  romance  of  the  Eound  Table  in 
which  so  great  a  war  is  carried  on  for  the  sake  of  a  single 
woman,  as  in  that  just  analyzed.  We  do  not  behold  two 
knights  occasionally  tilting  for  the  heart  or  favours  of  a 
lady,  but  the  whole  forces  of  India  ranged  against  the 
chivalry  of  France.  A  single  knight,  in  a  paroxysm  of 
valour,  overthrows  the  army  of  an  empire  ;  and  though  the 
combats  are  usually  described  more  circumstantially  than 
intelligibly,  the  slaughter  is  always  conducted  on  a  mag- 
nificent scale,  and  tends  to  one  purpose. 

But  though  the  unity  of  design  in  this  romance  be 
commendable,  the  design  itself  is  by  no  means  deserving 
of  applause.  Nothing  can  be  more  absurd  than  that 
Arthur  should  be  enchanted  with  a  woman  he  had  never 
beheld,  desert  a  beloved  mistress,  and  set  out  in  quest  of 
the  unknown  fair,  in  consequence  of  an  obscure  vision.^ 

^  Examples  of  such  dream-begotten  passion  are  by  no  means  rare  in 
romantic  compositions.  Atheuaens  observes  :  "  We  have  no  cause  for 
wonder  when  we  hear  of  people  having  fallen  in  love  from  hearsay,  for 
Chares  of  Mytilene  relates  in  the  twelfth  book  of  his  History  of  Alex- 
ander, that  many  persons  have  become  enamoured  who  have  never  seen 
the  object  of  their  attachment  but  in  dreams,"  and  then  proceeds  to 
quote  an  apposite  story  from  Chares  himself  (cf.  Lucian  in  Hermotimus, 
§  73,  in  refei'ence  to  ^ledea,  and  Hyginus,  Fab.  20).  An  instance  is 
found  in  Amadis  of  Greece,  in  Palmerin  d'Oliva  in  the  Romans  des 
Sept  Sages  (Kellers  ed.,  v.  4218,  etc.),  in  the  Fabliau  of  the  Chevalier 
a  la  Trappe,  in  the  Xibelungenlied,  st.  13,  etc.).  So  common,  indeed, 
was  this  mode  of  love  in  the  romances  of  chivalry,  that  Chaucer  seems 
(Rime  of  Sir  Thopas,  v.  13717,  etc.)  to  deride  it.     Nor  are  the  jwets  of 


CH.  III.]  ARTUS    DE    LA    BRETAGNE.  259 

There  is  something,  too,  extremely  cold  and  hard-hearted 
in  thus  abandoning  Jeannette,  which  gives  us,  at  the  first, 
a  very  imfavourable  idea  of  the  character  of  the  hero. 
Nor,  as  we  advance,  do  we  find  him  possessed  of  a  single 
quality,  except  strength  and  coui'age,  to  excite  respect  or 
interest.  This  remark  might,  perhaps,  be  justly  extended 
to  all  the  other  characters  in  the  romance,  excejjt  Stephen, 
or  the  Master,  as  he  is  called.  That  young  and  royal 
astrologer  is  paintedand  endowed  with  every  personal  grace 
and  accomplishment — he  has  endless  resources  in  every 
emergency — he  possesses  a  delightful  frankness  and  gaiety, 
united  to  an  invincible  heroism ;  the  utmost  warmth  of 
friendship  for  Arthur,  and  an  unshaken  fidelity  to  Florence. 
He  also  constantly  amuses  the  reader  by  raising  uj)  de- 
lightful gardens,^  fountains,  and  singing  birds,  by  the 
operations  of  natiu'al  magic, — a  knowledge  of  which  was 
at  one  time  believed  to  be  a  common  attainment,  and  was 
known  in  Scotland  by  the  name  of  glamour.  The  Jon- 
gleurs were  professors  of  this  mystery  ;  and  Sir  John  Man- 
deville  saw  many  proficients  in  the  East.  In  particular 
[c.  22] ,  he  gives  a  description  of  the  marvels  displayed  before 
the  khan  of  Tartary,  so  strikingly  similar  to  those  in  the 
romance  of  Arthur,  as  to  afford  a  strong  presumption  that 
such  exhibitions  were  actually  attempted  in  the  middle 
ages,  and  were  not  merely  the  offspring  of  the  romancer's 
fancy.  "  And  than  comen  jogulours  and  enchantoui'es  that 
don  many  marvaylles :  for  they  maken  to  come  in  the  ayr 
the  Sonne  and  the  mone,  be  seeminge  to  every  man's  sight. 
And  after  they  maken  the  nyght  so  derk,  that  no  man 
may  see  no  thing.  And  aftre  they  maken  the  day  to  come 
agen  fair  and  plesant,  with  bright  sonne,  to  every  mannes 
sight.  And  than  they  bringen  in  daunces  of  the  fairest 
damyselles  of  the  world,  and  richest  arrayed.  And  after 
they  maken  to  comen  in  other  damyselles,  bringinge  coupes 

the  East  strangers  to  this  device  ;  Suleicha,  Potiphar's  wife,  becomes 
enamoured  of  Joussouf  in  di'eam  (cf.  Fortlage  Vorlesungen  liber  die 
Geschichte  der  Poesie,  p.  200),  and  simihirly  Kamrup  and  Kala  be- 
come mutually  enamoured.  (Les  Avantures  de  Kamrup,  par  Jahein 
Uddiu,  trad,  de  I'Hindoustani,  par  Garein  de  Tassy,  ch.  iii.  and  iv.). — 

LlEB. 

^  See  Scheiblo's  '•  Kloster,"Bd.  v.  p.  190,  etc.    Humboldt's  '"Cosmos," 
ii.  130.     Note  to  Boccaccio  (x.  5),  and  index. 


260  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

of  gold,  and  geven  drynke  to  lordes  and  to  ladjes.  An 
than  they  make  knyghtes  to  jousten  in  armes  full  lusty ly  ; 
and  they  breken  here  speres  so  rudely,  that  the  tronchouns 
flen  in  peces  alle  aboute  the  halle.  And  than  they  make 
to  come  in  huntyng  for  the  hert  and  for  the  boor,  with 
houndes  renning  with  open  mouth e,  and  many  other  thinges 
they  don  be  craft  of  hir  enchauntments  that  it  is  marveyle 
for  to  see."  And  elsewhere  the  traveller  remarks,  *'  Azid 
wher  it  be  by  craft  or  nygromancye,  I  wot  nere." 

It  can  hardl}^  be  doubted  that  the  leading  incident  of 
the  romance  of  Arthur  of  Britany  suggested  to  Spenser 
the  plan  and  outline  of  his  Faery  Queene  ;  where  Arthur, 
the  hero,  sees  in  a  vision,  and,  seeing,  falls  in  love  with  the 
fairy  queen,  whose  quest  is  the  great  object  through  the 
whole  of  that  romantic  poem. 

Clekiadtjs  ^ 

is  the  last  romance  that  has  been  ranked  among  those  of 
the  Eound  Table.  It  does  not  strictly  belong  to  that  class 
of  fictions,  but  has  been  numbered  with  them,  as  a  great 
proportion  of  the  adventures  happen  in  England,  and  as 
the  hero  was  married  to  a  princess  descended  from  the 
great  Arthur. 

Philippon,  king  of  England,  one  of  the  successors  of 
Arthur,  being  far  advanced  in  life,  sent  to  Spain,  in  order 
to  request  that  the  count  of  Asturias,  a  man  renowned  for 
his  wisdom,  would  come  to  England  to  assist  him  in  the 
government  of  his  kingdom.  The  count  arrived  according 
to  invitation,  and  brought  with  him  his  son  Cleriadus,  who 
soon  became  enamoured  of  Meliadice,  the  daughter  of 
Philippon.  To  render  himself  worthy  of  her  affections,  he 
engaged  in  many  hazardous  enterprises  both  in  Britain  and 
in  his  native  country.  Among  other  exploits,  he  subdued 
a  lion  which  ravaged  all  England,  but  who  turned  out  to 
be  a  gallant  knight  metamorphosed  by  the  malevolence  of 
a  fairy ;  and  on  one  occasion  he  challenged  and  overcame 

^  Published  by  Antoine  Verard  at  Paris  in  1495  ;  an  edition  unknown 
till  1850  (Brunet),  and  again  in  1514,  and  twice  subsequently.  An  ab- 
stract of  the  romance  is  given  in  the  Bibliotheque  des  Romans  for 
January,  1777,  pp.  26-68.— Ward,  Cat.,  p.  384. 


CH.  III.]  CLERIADUS.  261 

all  the  heroes  of  the  court  of  Philippon.  After  this  exhibi- 
tion, Philippon  gave  a  splendid  entertainment  in  honour  of 
Cleriadus,  who  contributed  a,  pic-7iic  of  sparrowhawks  and 
dressed  dogs,  which  seem  to  have  been  the  delicacies 
of  the  time ;  he  also  danced  for  the  amusement  of  the 
company,  and  sung  a  duet  with  Meliadice  by  order  of  the 
king. 

The  final  happiness  of  the  lovers  seemed  fast  approach- 
ing, when  ambassadors  arrived  from  the  court  of  Cyprus 
to  beg  assistance  against  the  Saracens,  who  had  invaded 
that  island.  Though  this  entei'prise  was  somewhat  out  of 
the  line  of  his  English  majesty's  politics,  yet,  in  order  to 
testify  his  zeal  for  the  Christian  cause,  he  sent  eight  hun- 
dred men  to  Cyprus,  with  Cleriadus  at  their  head,  an  ex- 
pedition which  may,  j^erhaps,  have  been  suggested  to  the 
imagination  of  the  romancer  by  the  circumstance  of  a  king 
of  Cvprus  having  resided  in  England  during  the  reign  of 
Edward  III. 

The  Queen  of  England  had  a  brother  Thomas,  Count  of 
Langarde,  a  man  of  infamous  character,  who  had  conceived 
an  incestuous  passion  for  his  niece.  As  his  proposals  were 
rejected  with  horror,  he  seized  the  absence  of  Cleriadus  as 
a  fit  opportunity  for  revenge.  He  forged  letters,  which  he 
made  appear  to  have  passed  between  Cleriadus  and  Meha- 
dice,  in  which  the  lovers  agreed  to  poison  the  king,  and 
ascend  the  throne  in  his  stead.  The  good  monarch,  though 
he  seems  generally  to  have  dispensed  with  the  trouble  of 
reflection,  at  first  betrayed  an  inclination  for  a  trial,  but  at 
the  persuasion  of  Langarde,  Meliadice,  without  farther 
ceremony,  is  sent  under  the  charge  of  four  ruffians  to  be 
murdered  in  a  wood.  Two  of  their  number,  however,  are 
seized  with  compunction,  and  persuade  their  comrades  to 
agree  in  saving  her.  She  is  accordingly  allowed  to  escape 
on  condition  of  leaving  England,  but  is  previously  stripped, 
that  she  might  not  draw  observation  by  the  splendour  of 
her  dress.  Thus  she  wanders  through  the  country,  in  a 
dishabille  which  was  fully  as  likely  to  attract  attention  as 
her  royal  vestments.  At  many  gates  she  was  refused  ad- 
mittance, as  a  person  of  suspicious  character ;  but  at  length 
found  refuge  in  the  cottage  of  an  old  woman,  who  gave  her 
clothes,  and  sent  her,  with  letters  of  introduction,  to  a 


262  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

merchant,  who  lived  on  the  sea-coast,  and  was  speedily  to 
embark  for  Spain.  After  a  prosperous  voyage  she  was 
landed  at  Yillablanca,  the  capital  of  Asturias,  where  she 
entered  into  service  with  a  female  cousin  of  the  merchant. 

Meanwhile  Cleriadus  having  conquered  the  Saracens, 
returned  to  England,  where  he  was  informed  of  the  death 
of  Meliadice.  He  also  found  that  his  father,  having  lost 
all  influence,  had  retired  to  Asturias,  and  that  the  defamer 
of  his  mistress  was  acting  as  viceroy.  He  assaulted  Lan- 
garde  next  morning,  and  defied  him  to  single  combat ;  but 
that  traitor  preferring  the  certainty  of  immediate  execu- 
tion to  the  risk  of  a  battle,  confessed  his  crime.  Philippon, 
as  may  be  imagined,  was  inconsolable  for  the  loss  of  his 
daughter,  but,  spite  of  his  entreaties,  Cleriadus  would  not 
consent  to  remain  in  England.  He  assumed  a  pilgrim's 
habit,  and  embarked  on  board  a  vessel  which  was  bound 
for  the  Tagus.  The  ship,  however,  fortunately  encoun- 
tered a  storm  on  the  coast  of  Grascony,  which  forced  it  to 
enter  the  port  of  Villablanca.  Although  Cleriadus  had 
formally  renounced  his  country,  he  could  not  refrain  from 
ascending  a  hill  in  the  neighbourhood  to  take  a  last  geo- 
graphical survey  of  the  abode  of  his  parents. 

While  ruminating  on  his  misfortunes,  a  young  woman, 
whom  the  reader  divines  to  be  Meliadice,  arrived,  bearing 
a  water-pitcher  on  her  head.  Seeing  him  j^lunged  in  dis- 
tress, she  attempted  to  console  him,  and  concluded  with 
offering  charity.  She  persuaded  him  to  disclose  the  cause 
of  his  grief ;  and  while  he  was  yet  speaking  she  recognized 
her  lover,  broke  her  water-pitcher,  and  threw  herself  into 
his  arms.^  The  hap^^y  couj)le  set  off  for  the  seat  of  the 
count  of  Asturias,  who,  in  a  few  days,  accompanied  them  to 
England.  There  they  were  legally  united  with  the  consent  of 
Philippon,  who  soon  after  resigned  his  crown  to  Cleriadus. 

The  above  work  is  the  foundation  of  a  Scotch  metrical 
romance,  written  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Mary,  and  entitled 
Clariodus,  of  which  there  is  a  MS.  copy  in  the  Advocates' 
Library  at  Edinburgh.^ 

^  See  supplementary  note  to  Apolloniiis  of  Tyre  at  the  end  of  this 
volume. 

^  This  was  printed  in  1830  for  the  Maitland  Club.  The  preface  con- 
tains a  brief  account  of  the  romance. 


CH.  III.]  l'histoire  de  giglan.  263 

Tliere  exists  one  other  prose  romance  of  the  knights  of 
the  Round  Table,  Giglan. 

L'histoire  de  G-iglan. 

K  the  prologue  prefixed  to  this  work  is  to  be  believed, 
*'  frere  Claude  Platin  humble  religieux  de  I'ordre  Monseig- 
neiu'  Sainct  Anthoine  found  one  day  in  a  little  librairie 
where  he  was  a  big  parchment  book  in  very  old  writing,  in 
Spanish  verse  ...  in  which  book  he  found  a  little  history, 
which  seemed  to  him  very  entertaining  .  .  .  and  resolved 
to  translate  the  said  history  into  French  prose,"  which  was 
printed  at  L3^ons  in  1530.^  I  have  never  seen  this  romance ; 
but  to  judge  from  extracts,  it  is  not  scarcer  than  it  de- 
serves to  be. 

Besides  the  metrical  romances  from  which  the  prose 
compilations  above  analyzed  have  been  chiefly  formed, 
there  are  a  number  of  others  which  existed  in  MS.  in  the 
library  of  M.  de  Sainte  Palaye.  Of  those  which  were 
written  by  the  Trouveurs  of  the  north  of  France  an  abridged 
version  has  been  given  in  the  admirable  selection  of  Le 
Grand.  A  great  proportion  of  the  metrical  romances  con- 
cerning Arthui'  and  his  knights  was  written  in  the  twelfth 
century  by  Chrestien  de  Troyes,"  and  many  of  them  were 

^  L'histoire  de  Gigla,  filz  de  messire  Gaunain  qui  fut  roy  de  Galles. 
Et  de  Geoffroy  de  Maience  son  compaignom  tous  deux  chevaliers  de  la 
table  Ronde.  Lyon.  Several  other  editions  are  mentioned  by  Benecke  in 
the  advertisement  to  his  edition  of  Wirnt  von  Gravenberg's  Wigalois,  the 
Knight  of  the  Wheel,  Berlin,  1819.  See  appendix.  An  account  of  Giglan 
is  given  in  the  Bibliotheque  des  Romans,  October,  1777,  i.  p.  59.  (See 
also  Melanges  tires  d'une  Grande  Bibliotheque.)  Benecke  (loc.  cit.) 
gives  an  account  of  the  work  and  allied  stories.  The  romance,  says 
F.  W.  V.  Schmidt,  deserves  far  better  than  Artus  do  Bretagne,  or 
Cleriadus,  to  close  the  Arthurian  series;  it  abounds  in  marvel, adventure, 
and  variety.  The  German  Wigalois  (Gwi  von  Galais),  the  French 
Giglain,  and  the  English  •'  Lybeaus  Desconnus  "  published  in  vol.  ii.  of 
Ritson's  "  Metrical  Romances,"  are  in  great  part  substantially  the  same, 
the  original  of  which,  however,  does  not  seem  to  have  been  traced.  (See 
F.  W.  V.  Schmidt,  Wiener  Jahrb.,  Bd.  xxix.  pp.  125,  126,  127.)  For 
mention  of  several  other  works  which  may  be  attached  to  the  .Vrthurian 
romances,  see  ibid. 

2  See  C.  Potvin,  Bibliographie  de  Chrestien,  etc.,  1863,  and  W.  L. 
Holland,  Chrestien  de  Troies,  eine  Litteraturgeschichtliche  Untersu- 
chung,  1854. 


264j  history  of  fiction.  [ch.  hi. 

afterwards  continued  by  Huon  de  Merj.  Some  of  these 
relate  new  adventures  concerning  knights  of  the  Eoimd 
Table,  and  others  introduce  new  heroes. 

1.  One  of  the  most  beautiful  of  these  metrical  tales  is 

Eeec  and  Enide/ 

by  Chrestien  de  Troyes.  Erec  vanquishes  a  knight  who 
had  insulted  an  attendant  of  Queen  Geneura  at  a  national 
hunt.  After  the  battle,  Erec  discovered  on  the  domains 
of  the  person  he  had  conquered,  his  beautiful  niece,  called 
Enide,  who  resided  near  her  uncle's  castle,  but  had  been 
allowed  by  him  to  remain  in  the  utmost  poverty.  Erec 
marries  this  lady,  and  soon  forgets  all  the  duties  of 
chivalry  in  her  embraces ;  his  vassals  complain  bitterly  of 
his  sloth,  and  Enide  rouses  him  to  exertion.  Attended  by 
her  alone  he  sets  out  in  quest  of  adventures,  of  which  a 
variety  are  related.  One  day  Erec  swoons  through  fatigue, 
and  Enide  readily  believes  him  dead.  A  baron,  whose 
castle  was  in  the  neighbourhood,  happens  to  jDass  at  the 
time,  and  Enide  is  married  to  him  while  her  husband  is  in 
the  fainting  fit.^  A  nuptial  feast  is  prepared  in  the  room 
where  Erec  lay,  but  a  squabble  arising  between  the  baron 
and  his  bride,  on  account  of  the  obstinacy  of  the  latter  in 
refusing  to  eat,  Erec  is  roused  by  the  noise ;  and  being,  it 
would  appear,  much  refreshed  by  his  swoon,  instantly  beats 
out  the  brains  of  his  rival,  and  disperses  the  attendants. 

^  This  is  the  story  of  Geraint  (or  Gerontius)  ab  Erbin,  King  of 
Defriaint  (Devon  and  Cornwall).  He  was  called  in  the  Triads  one  of 
the  three  Llynghesawg,  or  naval  commanders,  of  the  Isle  Britain,  Gwen- 
wynwyn  ap  Naf  and  Mai'ch  ap  Merchion  (the  husband  of  Isolt  and 
uncle  of  Tristan)  beins:  the  other  two.  He  was  slain  at  the  battle  of 
Llongborth  (probably  Langport  in  Somerset),  and  is  celebrated  in  the 
elegy  of  Llywarch  Hen.  He  was  buried,  according  to  local  tradition,  in 
a  golden  ship,  at  Gerrans,  not  far  from  Truro.  The  romance  has  been 
used,  in  the  form  in  which  it  occurs  in  a  Welsh  ]\IS.  in  the  Hengwrt 
collection  (published  in  Lady  C.  Guest's  "  Mabinogion,"  vol.  ii),  as  the 
groundwork  of  one  of  Lord  Tennyson's  "  Idylls  of  the  King."  German 
and  Icelandic  versions  of  Chrestien  de  Troye's  poem  exist.  (See  '*'  Ma- 
binogion,'"' vol.  ii.  p.  178,  for  full  descriptions.) — H.  Jenner. 

Cf.  Graesse,  p.  249.  Villemarque,  Contes  Popul.,  etc.  i.  p.  156,  ii.  329. 
San  Marte,  Arthursage,  p.  321 ;  Gottinger  Gelehrt.  Anzeiger,  1843,  Ko. 
101,  p.  1007.— LiEB. 

-  Cf.  Widow  of  Ephesus,  p.  94,  etc.,  supra. 


CH.  III.]  LE    CHEVALIER    DE    LA    CHARRETTE.  265 

As  the  provisions  Lad  by  this  time  cooled,  he  immediately 
departs  with  Euide,  aud  arrives  iu  safety  at  his  owd  castle, 
after  experiencing  a  curious  adventure  in  a  subterraneous 
labyrinth,  from  which  he  rescued  a  lady  who  was  there 
detained  by  enchantment. 
The  romance  of 

Le  Chevalier  de  la  Charrette, 

the  first  part  of  which  was  written  by  Chrestien  de  Troyes, 
and  the  conclusion  by  Geoffrey  de  Ligny,  relates  the  early 
adventures  of  Lancelot,  and  the  commencement  of  his 
amour  with  Queen  Geneura.  This  was  published  at  Rheims 
in  1849,  with  a  notice  of  the  life  and  works  of  the  authors 
by  P.  Tarbc,  and  again  by  W.  J.  A.  Jonckbloet,  at  the 
Hague  in  1850,  under  the  title,  "  Le  Roman  de  la  Cha- 
rette  d'aprcs  Gautier  Map  et  Chrestien  de  Troies."  It  con- 
tains both  the  versified  romance  and  the  portion  of  the 
prose  Lancelot,  which  corresponds  thereto.  (See  supra, 
pp.  182,  184.)  Among  the  familiar  Arthurian  personages 
who  retain  their  characteristic  physiognomies  two  new 
figures  play  prominent  parts,  the  traitor  Meleagans  and 
his  father  Baudemagus.  The  Charrette  has  been  much 
praised  for  its  literary  merit.  The  following  passage  may 
convey  some  idea  of  the  style.  The  queen  is  withdrawing 
to  her  apartment,  and  Lancelot  can  only  escort  her  with  his 
eyes  and  his  heart,  but  the  eyes  had  all  too  short  a  distance 
to  travel,  for  the  queen's  chamber  was  near,  and  they  would 
fain  have  entered  it,  if  it  might  be.  The  heart,  which  is  a 
more  puissant  seignour  and  master,  and  endowed  with 
greater  power,  entered  in  after  her,  but  the  eyes,  full  of 
tears,  remained  with  the  body  outside. 

Et  Lanceloz  jusqua  I'antree 

I)es  jalz  et  de  I'cuer  la  convoie, 

Mes  as  ialz  fu  corte  la  voie 

Que  trop  estoit  la  chambre  pres ; 

Et  il  fusst  antre  apres 

Mult  volontiers  s'il  poist  cstre. 

Li  euers,  que  plus  est  sire  et  mestre, 

Et  de  plus  f^rant  pooir  assez, 

San  est  outre  apres  li  passez, 

P>t  li  oil  sont  remes  dehors 

Plein  de  lermes  avec  li  cors. 


266  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  Ill, 

The 

Chevalier  au  Lion^ 

has  been  generally  attributed  to  Chrestien  de  Troyes,  but 
the  Abbe  de  la  Rue  ascribes  it  to  Wace.  This  romance 
must  not  be  confounded  with  another  of  the  same  name, 
of  which  Perceval  is  the  hero.  In  the  present  work  Yvain 
is  the  principal  character,  and  it  has  given  rise  to  an  old 
English  poem,  Ywain  and  G-awain,  published  by  Mr. 
Eitson  [i.  1-169].^  A  knight  at  the  court  of  Arthur  re- 
lates that  he  had  been  induced  to  try  the  adventure  of  a 
fountain,  where  a  dreadful  storm  was  raised  by  throwing 
the  water  on  a  marble  stone,  and  that  the  commotion 
brought  to  the  spot  a  valiant  knight,  by  whom  he  had 
been  defeated.  Yvain  resolves  to  try  this  stormy  experi- 
ment, and  the  expected  combatant  appears.  Our  hero 
kills  this  champion,  and  marries  his  widow,  who  resided 
in  a  castle  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  finds  that  a  knight 
is  necessary  to  defend  her  territories,  and  reply  to  the 
whirlwinds  from  the  fountain.  After  remaining  some 
time  with  his  wife,  Yvain  sets  out  in  quest  of  new  adven- 
tures, promising  to  return  in  a  year.  When  he  had  ex- 
ceeded the  appointed  time,  a  damsel  on  the  part  of  his 
wife  comes  unexj^ectedly  to  the  court  of  Arthur,  and  re- 
proaches him  with  his  infidelity.  Yvain  instantly  goes 
mad,  and  roams  through  the  country,  committing  extra- 
vagancies, which,  it  may  be  remarked,  bear  much  closer 
resemblance  to  those  of  Orlando,  than  the  transports  of 
Lancelot  or  Tristan.  It  is  after  being  cured  of  this  phrensy 
that  he  rescues  the  lion,  which  he  finds  engaged  in  a  peri- 

^  The  Chevalier  au  Lion  is  printed  in  full  as  an  appendix  to  the 
"  Jarlles  y  Ftynnawn  "  (Lady  of  the  Fountain),  an  abridgment  in  Welsh 
prose  of  the  same  story  in  Lady  C.  Guest's  "  Mabinogion,"  vol.  i.,  where 
may  be  found  copious  notes  on  the  subject. — H.  Jexner. 

^  For  the  fullest  analysis  and  comparison  of  the  various  versions  of 
the  story,  see  the  essay  by  George  Stephens,  forming  the  third  part 
(Inledning,  m.  m.)  of  the  Swedish  metrical  version,  Herr  Ivan  Lejon- 
Kiddaren,  published  by  the  Svenska  Fornskrift,  Sallskapet,  1845-49. 
(See  also  Eugen  Kolbing,  in  his  introduction  to  Ivents  saga,  in  his 
Kiddarasogur  (Strassburg,  1872).  Ward,  Cat.,  p.  392.  See  also  Ville- 
marque,  Contes  Popul.,  i.  109,  305  ;  ii.  328.  The  evidence  in  favour  of 
the  Celtic  origin  of  the  story  is  strong. 


CH.  III.]  LE    CHEVALIER    A    l'ePEE.  267 

lous  combat  with  a  dragon.  The  grateful  animal  attends 
him  ever  after,  and  is  of  great  service  in  all  his  adven- 
tures. Yvain  at  last  thinks  of  being  reconciled  to  his  wife, 
and  begins  his  overtures  towards  accommodation,  by  raising 
storms  from  the  fountain.  The  lady,  who  had  resolved 
against  agreement,  is  shaken  by  this  species  of  eloquence : 
as  she  finds  she  must  either  be  reconciled  to  her  husband, 
or  pass  her  life  in  an  eternal  hurricane.  This  notion  of  a 
knight  having  obliged,  and  being  afterwards  accompanied 
by  a  lion,  w^iich  is  the  leading  incident  in  the  above  tale, 
seems  to  be  a  fiction  common  to  all  nations :  every  one 
knows  the  story  of  the  Eoman  knight,  and  in  the  Teu- 
tonic romance  of  the  Book  of  Heroes,  written  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  thirteenth  century,  Wolfdietrich  having  aided 
a  Hon  in  a  combat  with  a  dragon,  is  ever  after  followed  by 
the  grateful  quadruped.^ 

There  are  a  great  number  of  fabUaux  relating  to  the 
knights  of  Arthur,  of  which  Gauvain  is  generally  the  hero, 
but  which  also  contain  a  vast  deal  about  Queux,  Keux, 
or  Kav,  the  seneschal  of  Arthur. 

In  * 

Le  Chevalier  a  l'Epee, 

erroneously  ascribed  by  some  to  Chrestien  de  Troyes, 
Gauvain  is  received  in  a  splendid  castle,  where  it  was  a 
rule  that  every  person  should  be  put  to  death  who  found 
fault  with  any  thing  he  saw  in  the  habitation.  Owing  to 
a  hint  he  received  from  a  peasant  on  entering  this  cere- 
monious residence,  he  abstains  from  all  criticism :  but  he 
was  not  aw^are  of  a  second  regulation,  that  an  enchanted 
sword  cut  off  the  head  of  those  who  took  liberties  with  the 
daughter  of  the  Chatelain.  On  the  second  night  of  his 
stay,  the  father  locks  him  up  in  the  same  chamber  with 
his  daughter ;  but  the  lady  having  taken  a  liking  to  him, 
warns  him  of  his  danger,  and  he  escapes  with  a  slight 

'  Or  rather  slave.  Cf.  the  story  of  Androelus  in  Gellius  Noct.  Att., 
V.  14.  Cf.  Robert,  Fables  Ined.,  ii.  473 ;  Gesta  Rom.,  No.  104,  and  La 
Chroniquo  du  bon  Chevalier  Gilles  de  Chin.,  ch.  32,  and  the  story  of 
Godfrey  de  lu  Tour,  and  allied  legends  in  Clone's  "  Anzeiger,"  viii.  351, 
No.  64.  Cf.  also  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt  in  his  notes  to  Straparoia,  p.  342  ; 
and  see  Migne,  Diet,  des  Superstitions,  Lion. 


268  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

wound  in  the  arm.  This  damsel  was  afterwards  married 
to  Gauvain,  and  of  her  is  related  the  example  of  female 
infidelity,  contrasted  with  canine  attachment,  which  has 
been  given  in  the  abstract  of  Tristan. 

La  Mule  sans  Frein 

has  by  some  been  attributed  to  Payans  Maizieres,  and 
by  others  to  Chrestien  de  Troyes.  A  disconsolate  lady, 
mounted  on  a  mule  without  a  bridle,  comes  to  the  court 
of  Arthur,  and  requests  that  one  of  his  knights  would  go 
in  search  of  this  bridle,  declaring  that  the  mule  knew  the 
road  to  the  place  where  it  lay.  Queux,  the  seneschal, 
offers  his  services,  but  speedily  returns,  appalled  by  the 
dangers  he  encounters.  G-auvain  then  sets  out,  and  after 
much  procedure  with  giants  and  monsters,  recovers  the 
treasure  from  the  lady's  elder  sister,  who  had  robbed  the 
younger  of  it.  In  the  original  romance  there  is  not  the 
smallest  advantage  to  be  derived  from  the  possession  of 
this  bridle ;  but,  in  an  abstract  in  the  Bibliotheque  des 
Eomans  [Fevrier,  1777,  p.  98],  it  is  feigned  to  procure  for 
the  holder  the  comforts  of  eternal  youth  and  unfading 
beauty,  which  gives  a  semblance  of  probability  to  the  con- 
test of  these  freakish  sisters.  A  prose  rifacimento  is  con- 
tained in  Legrand  d'Aussy's  "Fabliaux  ou  Contes,"  i.  p.  13. 
The  tale  has  been  versified  by  Mr.  Way  and  by  the 
G-erman  poet  Wieland  [Des  Maulthier's  Zaum]. 
The  well-known  story  of 

Le  Court  Mantel, 

printed  in  the  sixteenth  century,  and  analyzed  by  Le 
Grand,  under  the  title  of  Le  Manteau  mal  Taille,  or 
fabliau  of  the  Mantel  mautaille.  It  is  found  combined 
with  the  Lai  du  corn  of  Robert  Bikez,  in  an  English 
ballad.  (See  Ward,  Cat.,  i.  p.  404). 
History  of  the 

Adventures  of  Four  Brothers, 

Agravain,  Gueret,  Galheret,  and  Gauvain,  sons  of  Loth, 
King  of  Orkney,  all  of  whom  set  out  in  different  direc- 


CH.  III.]  ADVENTURES    OF    FOUR    BROTHERS.  269 

tions,  in  quest  of  Lancelot  dii  Lac.  Agra  vain,  as  a  coup 
d'essai,  kills  Drnas,  a  formidable  giant,  but  is  in  turn  van- 
quished bv  Sornehan,  the  brother  of  the  deceased.  His 
life  is  spared  at  the  request  of  the  conqueror's  niece,  and 
he  is  confined  in  a  dungeon,  where  his  preserver  secretly 
brings  him  refreshments.  Gueret  also  concludes  a  variety 
of  adventures,  by  engaging  Sornehan,  and  being  overcome, 
is  shut  up  in  the  same  dungeon  with  his  brother.  Gal- 
heret,  the  third  of  the  fraternity,  arrives  at  a  castle,  where 
he  is  invited  to  play  with  its  lady  at  chess,  on  condition 
that  if  he  win  he  is  to  possess  her  person  and  castle,  but 
should  otherwise  become  her  slave.  The  chess  men  are 
ranged  in  compartments  on  the  floor  of  a  fine  hall,  are 
large  as  life,  and  glitter  with  gold  and  diamonds.  Each 
of  them  besides  is  a  fairy,  and  moves  on  being  touched  by 
a  talisman.  G-alheret  loses  the  game,  and  is  confined  with 
a  number  of  other  check-mated  knights.  G-auvain,  how- 
ever, soon  after  arrives,  and  vanquishes  the  lady  at  her 
own  arms ;  but  only  asks  the  freedom  of  the  prisoners, 
among  whom  he  finds  his  brother.  Having  learned  from 
an  elfish  attendant  of  the  lady,  the  fate  of  his  two  other 
kinsmen,  he  equips  himself  in  the  array  of  the  chess  king. 
In  this  garb  he  engages  Sornehan,  who,  being  dazzled  by 
the  brightness  of  his  attire,  is  easily  conquered,  by  which 
means  Agravain  and  Gueret  are  delivered  from  confinement. 

This  story  is  told,  with  little  variation,  in  the  prose 
romance  of  Lancelot  du  Lac,^  to  which  it  was  probably 
transferred  from  the  metrical  tale  above  mentioned. 

An  account  has  now  been  presented  of  the  romances  of 
the  Roimd  Table,  the  most  ancient  class  of  chivalrous 
composition."  Of  the  usual  tone  of  incident  in  these  works, 

^  And  in  Perceval.  See  also  San  Marte,  Arthursage,  p.  214,  Xo.  29, 
and  Villemarque,  Contes  Popul.,  ii.  p.  296. 

2  Graesse,  Literarg,  Bd.  2,  §  3,  p.  2  49,  enumerates  several  other  ro- 
mances of  chivalry,  among  which,  on  account  of  its  rarity,  may  here  be 
Paris,  mentioned  Triumphe  desneuf  Preux  (abstract  in  Bibl.  des  Romans, 
1782,  4to.,  i.  p.  71).  The  author  feigns  that  there  appeared  to  him  in  a 
vision  nine  heroes,  and  in  a  second  vision  a  tenth  hero,  viz.,  Josua,  David, 
Judas  Maccabeus,  Hector,  Alexander  the  Great,  Julius  C?esar ;  and 
then  Arthur,  Charlemagne,  Godfrey  of  Bouillon,  and  finally  Bertrand 
du  Guesclin  ;  they  charge  him  to  undertake  the  description  of  their  Lives 
and  Feats,  in  order  that  Lady  Triumphe  who  appears  with  them  may  be 


270  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

I  trust  the  reader  may  have  forined  some  idea  from  the 
abstracts  already  given.  In  many  of  those  points  that 
have  been  laid  down,  as  constituting  excellence  in  the 
materials  of  fictitious  narrative,  they  will  be  found  ex- 
tremely defective.  The  novelty  of  adventure  is  not  great, 
as  most  of  the  events  related  were  drawn  from  those  me- 
trical romances,  by  which  the  prose  ones  were  preceded. 
But,  if  we  at  one  view  consider  the  originals  and  imita- 
tions, the  incidents  are  of  such  a  nature  as  were  never 
before  presented  in  combination  to  the  world,  and  form 
in  every  particular  a  complete  contrast  to  the  G-reek  ro- 
mances. As  the  fictions  concerning  the  Eound  Table,  in 
common  with  all  other  tales  of  chivalry,  are  full  of  stories 
of  giants  and  enchanters,  they  have  no  claim  to  proba- 
bility of  incident  in  one  sense  of  the  term,  and  even  that 
species  of  verisimilitude,  which  we  expect  in  the  actions 
and  machinations  of  unearthly  beings,  is  more  often  violated 
than  preserved. 

A  modern  reader,  too,  is  shocked  by  the  glaring  ana- 
enabled  to  decide  which  of  them  has  deserved  her  crown.  The  writer 
performs  this  task  with  many  divergences,  however,  from  the  records  of 
sacred  and  profane  history.  Differently  to  the  account  in  Lancelot  (p. 
183),  Arthur  is  here  made  to  commit  incest  knowingly  with  his  sister, 
the  consort  of  Lot,  King  of  Orcania,  she,  however,  being  innocent.  Brunet 
^ives  the  titles  and  editions  of  the  original  as  ostensibly  a  translation 
from  the  Spanish.  The  nine  heroes  of  this  romance  are  not  infrequently 
mentioned  in  the  earher  English  literature.  Shakespeare  alludes  inLoA^s 
Labour's  Lost  (act  v.  sc.  2),  to  the  Nine  Worthies  (Douce,  Illustrations  of 
Shakespeare,  p.  149.  Cf.  also  the  Provencal  Roman  de  Flamen^a,  in 
Raynouard's  "  Lexique  Roman,"  vol.  i.  p.  10,  etc.)  Further,  they  appear 
in  the  verses  which  precede  the  Low-German  history  of  Alexander  the 
Great  (Brun's  "  Altplattdeutsche  Gedichte,"  p.  336,  etc.  See  also  Warton, 
vol.  iv.  p.  151,  note  a,  Lond.  1824).  They  figure  also  in  tapestry  and 
paintings  (Warton,  ii.  p.  44,  note  9).  This  selection  of  thrice  three 
heroes  may  very  likely  have  originated  in  the  Welsh  Triads,  where  (see 
San  Marte,  Arthursage,  p.  46)  the  three  Pagan,  Jewish,  and  Christian 
Trinities  are  enumerated  as  follows  :  Hector,  Alexander,  and  Julius 
Caesar ;  Joshua,  David,  and  Judas  Maccabseus;  Arthur,  Charlemagne, 
and  Godfrey  de  Bouillon.  For  Godfrey  is  sometimes  substituted  Guy 
of  Warwick.  (See  Douce,  loc.  cit.,p.  170,  etc.,  and  Graesse,  Literarg,  Bd. 
2,  §  3,  p.  255). — LiEB.  In  the  Histoire  Litteraire  de  la  France,  t.  xix., 
are  given  abstracts,  p.  678,  of  the  Philippide  d'Aymes  de  Varannes,  of 
which  there  are  both  verse  and  prose  romances  in  the  Paris  Bibliotheque 
Nationale,  p.  681,  of  the  Romance  of  Julius  Caesar,  by  J.  Forrest;  p.  735, 
of  the  Romance  of  Trubert,  by  Doins  de  Laverne. 


CH.  III.]  ADVENTURES    OF    FOUR    BROTHERS.  271 

chronisms  and  geographical  blunders  which  deform  the 
romances  of  chivalry.  These  and  other  absurdities  have 
been  happily  ridiculed  by  Butler  in  his  Hudibras : 

Some  writers  make  all  ladies  purloined, 
And  knights  pursuing  in  a  whirlwind  ; 
C)thers  make  till  tlieir  knights  in  fits 
Of  jealousy  to  lose  their  wits; 
Some  force  whole  regions  in  despite 
Of  geography,  to  change  their  site, 
Make  former  times  shake  hands  with  latter, 
And  that  which  was  before  come  after. 

The  story  is  invariably  told  in  the  person  of  the  author, 
and  in  this  the  writers  of  romance  have  perhaps  acted 
judiciously.  As  the  exploits  of  so  many  knights  were  to 
be  related,  it  would  not  have  suited  to  put  the  account  of 
them  in  the  mouth  of  the  principal  character,  as  he  could 
not  be  minutely  acquainted  with  adventures,  in  which,  for 
the  most  part,  he  had  no  concurrence.  The  story  is  never 
carried  on,  as  in  the  G-reek  romances,  in  the  form  of  an 
epic  poem,  commencing  in  the  middle  of  the  action,  but 
truly  begins  with  the  egg  of  Leda — the  adventures  of  the 
father  or  grandsire  of  the  hero.  After  being  protracted 
through  a  period  of  twenty  or  thirty  years,  the  romance 
concludes  with  the  death  of  the  principal  character,  or  his 
retirement  into  a  hermitage ;  or  drags  us  through  a  long 
list  of  descendants.  The  interest,  also,  is  too  much  divided, 
and  the  part  of  the  titular  hero  is  not  always  the  most 
considerable.  He  appears  and  vanishes  like  a  spirit,  and 
we  lose  sight  of  him  too  soon  to  regard  him  as  the  most 
important  character  in  the  work.  In  the  Greek  romances, 
all  the  adventures  accelerate  or  impede  the  solution  of  the 
fable ;  but  in  the  tales  of  chivalry  there  is  a  total  want  of 
unity  of  design,  which  prevents  our  carrying  on  the  story 
in  our  mind,  and  distracts  the  attention.  Indeed,  I  believe 
that  in  the  metrical  romances,  and  those  few  that  were 
originally  written  in  prose,  the  author  had  no  idea  where 
he  was  to  stop  ;  he  had  formed  no  skeleton  of  the  story, 
nor  proposed  to  himself  a  conclusion  to  which  his  insulated 
adventures  should  lead. 

With  respect  to  those  excellencies  which  have  been 
termed  the  ornaments  of  fictitious  narrative  :  the  characters 


272  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  III. 

of  the  heroes  are  not  well  shaded  nor  distinguished.  The 
knight,  however,  is  always  more  interesting  than  the 
heroine,  which  must  appear  strange  when  we  reflect  that 
these  romances  were  composed  in  an  age  when  devotion  to 
the  ladies  formed  the  essence  of  chivalry,  and  that  it  is 
quite  the  reverse  in  the  G-reek  romances,  though,  at  the 
time  in  which  they  were  written,  women  acted  a  very  in- 
ferior part  in  society.  In  the  romance  of  Perceval,  he 
appears  a  great  deal,  and  Blanchefleur  very  little.  Some 
romances,  as  Meliadus,  have  no  heroine  at  all,  and  the 
mistresses  of  Lancelot  and  Tristan  are  women  of  abandoned 
character, 

In  all  these  works  the  sentiments  are  thinly  scattered, 
and  perhaps  a  greater  number  would  not  have  been  appro- 
priate in  that  species  of  composition.  During  the  chival- 
rous ages,  as  Madame  de  Stael  has  well  remarked,  "  L'hon- 
neur  et  1' amour  agissoient  sur  le  coeur  de  I'homme  comme 
la  fatalite  chez  les  anciens,  sans  qu'on  reflechit  aux  motifs 
des  actions,  ni  que  I'incertitude  y  fut  admise." 

The  charm  of  style  and  beauty  of  description  form  the 
most  pleasing  features  of  the  romances  of  chivalry.  There 
is  something  in  the  simplicity  of  the  old  French  tongue 
which  surpasses  that  of  all  other  nations,  and,  from  an 
assiduous  perusal  of  romances,  where  it  is  exhibited  in  its 
greatest  richness  and  beauty,  we  may  receive  much  addi- 
tional insight  into  the  etymology  of  our  own  language. 

M.  de  Sainte  Palaye  talks  in  high  terms  of  the  light 
which  these  works  are  calculated  to  throw  on  the  labours 
of  the  genealogist,  and  of  the  information  which  they 
afford  with  regard  to  the  progress  of  arts  among  our 
ancestors.  That  writer  was  an  enthusiast  for  this  species 
of  lore  ;  and,  like  other  enthusiasts,  was  disposed  to  exag- 
gerate its  importance  and  value.  It  may  indeed  be  granted, 
that  the  romances  of  chivalry  are  curious  as  a  picture  of 
manners,  and  interesting  as  efforts  of  the  imagination,  in  a 
certain  stage  of  the  progress  of  the  human  mind  ;  but  with 
this  exception,  and  the  pleasure  occasionally  afforded  by 
the  naivete  of  the  language,  the  most  insipid  romance  of 
the  present  day  equals  them  as  a  fund  of  amusement,  and 
is  not  much  inferior  to  them  as  a  source  of  instruction. 

Those,  too,  who  have  been  accustomed  to  associate  the 


CH.  III.]  ADVENTURES    OF    FOUR    BROTHERS.  273 

highest  purity  of  morals  with  the  manners  of  chivalry, 
will  be  greatly  deceived.  Indeed,  in  their  moral  tendency, 
many  of  the  romances  are  highly  reprehensible.^  In  some, 
as  Perceforest,  particular  passages  are  exceptionable,  and 
the  general  scope  in  others,  where  the  principal  character 
is  a  knight,  engaged,  with  the  approbation  of  all,  in  a  love 
intrigue  with  the  wife  of  his  friend  or  his  sovereign.  In 
one  of  the  best  of  these  romances,  Tristan  carries  on  an 
amour  through  the  whole  work  with  the  queen  of  his  bene- 
factor and  uncle.  I  need  not  mention  the  gallantries  of 
Lancelot  and  Geneura,  nor  the  cold  hard-hearted  infidehty 
of  Artus  de  la  Bretagne.  "  The  whole  pleasure  of  these 
bookes,"  says  Ascham,  with  some  truth  and  naivete, 
**  standeth  in  two  specyall  poyntes,  in  open  mans  slaghter 
and  bolde  bawdrie,  in  which  bookes  those  be  counted  the 
noblest  knights  that  doe  kill  most  men  without  any  quar- 
rell,  and  commit  fowlest  adoulteries  by  sutlest  shifts,  as 
Syr  Launcelott  with  the  wife  of  Kyng  Arthure  his  maister  ; 
Syr  Tristram  with  the  wife  of  Kyng  Marke  his  vncle  ;  Syr 
Lamerocke  with  the  wife  of  Kyng  Lote,  that  was  his  own 
aunte.  This  is  good  stuffe  for  wise  men  to  laugh  at,  or 
honest  men  to  take  pleasure  at." 

^  Much  of  the  morality  blamed  by  Ascham  is  doubtless  derived  from 
semi-historical  material,  which  the  romancer  could  not  suppress  any 
more  than  Lord  Tennyson  in  his  Idylls  of  the  King,  without  ceasing  to 
embody  in  his  work  a  mass  of  received  legend  which  it  must  be  remem- 
bered was  current  and  to  a  large  extent  believed.  In  many  episodes 
there  seems  an  attempt  to  mitigate  prior  records  in  accordance  with  a 
higher  standard.  "  If  it  were  to  be  conceded  that  Wac-e,  Layamon,  and 
the  whole  cycle  of  romances  of  the  Round  Table,  might  have  been  con- 
signed to  oblivion  without  any  serious  injury  to  the  cause  of  literature, 
we  may  be  reminded  that  Don  Quixote  certainly,  and  Ariosto's  Orlando 
most  probably  arose  out  of  them.  Perhaps  Gorboduc,  and  Ferrex,  and 
Porrex,  might  not  be  much  missed  from  the  dramatic  literature  of 
Europe  ;  but  what  should  we  think  of  the  loss  of  Lear  and  Cymbeline  ? 
Let  us,  then,  thankfully  remember  Geoffrey  of  JMonmouth,  to  whom 
Shakespeare  was  indebted  for  the  groundwork  of  those  marvellous  produc- 
tions, and  without  whose  Historia  Britonum  we  should  probably  never  have 
had  them." — Quarterly  Review,  March,  1848,  Rev.  R.  Garnett.  Other 
romances  evolved  from  or  connected  with  Celtic  or  British  traditions,  would 
naturally  find  a  place  here,  but  the  limits  of  our  work  would  be  unduly 
extended  by  notice  of  them.  It  will  be  sufficient  to  refer  the  reader  for 
the  most  recent  information  upon  them  to  Mr.  "Ward's  "  Catalogue  of 
Romances," in  the  Department  of  Manuscripts, British  Museum,  1883, etc., 
where  he  will  find  ample  indications  forthefurtherpursuit  of  the  subject. 
I.  T 


CHAPTEE  lY. 

ROMANCES  OF  CHIVALRY  RELATING  TO  CHARLEMAGNE  AND 
HIS  PEERS. CHRONICLE  OF  TURPIN. HUON  DE  BOR- 
DEAUX.  GUERIN     DE     MONGLAVE. GALLIEN      RHETORE. 

MILLES    ET    AMYS. —  JOTJRDAIN    DE    SLAVES. OGIER  LE 

DANOIS,    ETC. 

IT  was  formerly  sIlowh  that  the  romances  relating  to 
Arthur  and  the  knights  of  the  Eound  Table  were  in  a 
great  measure  derived  from  the  History  of  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth.  It  now  remains  for  us  to  investigate  what 
influence  the  chronicle  falsely  attributed  to  Turpin,  or 
Tilpin,  archbishop  of  Eheims,  the  contemporary  of  Charle- 
magne, exercised  over  the  fabulous  stories  concerning  that 
prince  and  his  paladins. 

The  chronicle  of  Turpin  is  feigned  to  be  addressed 
from  Yiennes,  in  Dauphiny,  to  Leoprandus,  dean  of  Aquis- 
granensis  (Aix  la  Chapelle),  but  was  not  written,  in  fact, 
till  the  end  of  the  eleventh  or  beginning  of  the  twelfth 
century.  Its  real  author  seems  not  to  be  clearly  ascer- 
tained, but  is  supposed  by  some  to  have  been  a  Canon  of 
Barcelona,  who  attributed  his  work  to  Turpin.^ 

^  Tilpinus,  or  Turpinus,  said  by  Flodoardus  (ob.  966)  in  his  Historia 
Ecclesise  Remensis,  lib.  ii.  c.  16,  to  have  been  Archbishop  of  Rheims  from 
about  75.3  to  800.  The  writers  of  Gallia  Christiana  say  that  he  died  in 
794.  He  was  archbishop  in  778,  when  Charlemagne  made  his  only  re- 
corded expedition  into  Spain,  when  the  French  rearguard  was  defeated 
in  the  Pyrenees,  and,  as  Eginhart  says,  "  Hruodlandus,  Brittanici 
limitispraefectus,"  was  slain.  It  is  therefore  quite  possible  that  Tilpinus 
pronounced  a  funeral  oration  over  Roland  at  Roneesvaux,  an  event 
which  forms  the  climax  of  the  present  work,  but  no  one  now  supposes 
that  thei'e  is  any  real  connection  between  the  chronicler  and  the  arch- 
bishop. 

R.  P.  A.  Dozy  (Recherches  sur  I'histoire  delalitterature  del'Espagne 
pendant  le  moyenage,  Paris,    1881,  ii.  pp.  372-431)  has  shown  that  the 


CH.  IV.]  CHRONICLE    OF    TURPIN.  275 

This  production,  it  is  well  known,  turns  on  the  expedi- 
tion of  Charlemagne  to  the  peninsula.  Some  French 
writers  have  denied  that  Charlemagne  ever  was  in  Spain, 
but  the  authority  of  Eginhart  is  sufficient  to  establish  the 
fact.  It  seems  certain,  that  about  the  year  111 ,  the  assis- 
tance of  Charlemagne  was  invoked  by  one  of  those  nume- 
rous sovereigns,  among  whom  the  Spanish  provinces  were 
at  that  time  divided ;  that,  on  pretence  of  defending  this 
ally  from  the  aggressions  of  his  neighbours,  he  extended 
his  conquests  over  a  great  part  of  Navarre  and  Arragon ; 
and,  finally,  that  on  his  return  to  France  he  experienced  a 
partial  defeat  from  the  treacherous  attack  of  an  unexpected 
enemy.  These  simple  events  have  given  rise  to  the 
famous  battle  of  Koncesvalles,  and  the  other  extravagant 
fictions  recorded  in  the  chronicle  of  Turpin. 

Charlemagne,  according  to  that  work,  having  conquered 
Britain,  Italy,  Germany,  and  many  other  countries,  pro- 
posed to  give  himself  some  repose,  though  the  Saracens 
were  not  yet  extirpated ;  but,  while  in  this  frame  of  mind, 
being  fortunately  addicted  to  star-gazing,  he  one  night 
perceived  a  cluster  of  stars,^  which,  commencing  their  pro- 
cession at  the  Frisian  sea,  moved  by  way  of  Germany  and 
France  into  Gallicia.  This  phenomenon  being  repeated, 
attracted  the  thoughts  of  Charles,  but  he  could  form  no 
rational  conjecture  as  to  what  was  portended.  The  pro- 
digy, which  eluded  the  waking  researches  of  the  monarch, 
was  satisfactorily  expounded  in  a  vision.  A  figure  aj)- 
peared  to  Charles  while  he  was  asleep,  introduced  itself  as 
the   apostle   James,    and   announced   that   the  planetary 

first  five  chapters  of  Turpin  were  the  work  of  a  French  monk  at  Com- 
postella,  and  cannot  have  been  written  before  1065,  and  probably  not 
before  1131.  He  agrees  with  Gaston  Paris  (De  Pseudo-Turpino,  Paris, 
1S65)  that  the  remaining  chapters  are  by  another  hand,  or  rather  by 
other  hands.  G.  Paris  has  reviewed  Dozy's  work  in  tlie  Komania,  July, 
1882,  pp.  419,  etc.,  accepting  most  of  his  conclusions,  and  finally  con- 
jecturing that  the  whole  work  may  have  been  completed  towards  1150 
by  Aimeri  Picaud,  the  author  of  the  Itinerary  to  Compostella.  Turpin's 
Chronicle  has  been  republished  by  the  Montpellier  Societe  pour  TEtude 
des  Langues  Romanes,  by  F.  Castets,  under  the  title  of  Turpini  Historia 
Karoli  Magni  et  Kotholandi,  1880.  See  Ward,  Cat.,  vol.  i.  pp.  950,  951 
and  546-560. 

^  "  Intentione  sagaci,"  says  Eginhart,  "siderum  cursum  curiosissime 
rimabatur."     (C.  25.) 


276  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

marcli  typified  tlie  conquest  of  Spain,  adding,  that  lie  liad 
himself  been  slain  by  King  Herod,  and  that  his  body  had 
long  lain  concealed  in  Gallicia.  Hence,  continued  he, 
I  am  astonished  that  you  have  not  delivered  my  land  from 
the  yoke  of  the  Saracens.  The  apostle's  appropriation  of 
territory  was  somewhat  whimsical,  but  Charles  did  not 
dispute  his  title.  This  prince,  however,  seems  not  to  have 
been  renowned  for  a  retentive  memory,  and  accordingly 
the  apostle  took  the  precaution,  on  the  following  night,  of 
renewing  his  suggestion. 

In  consequence  of  these  successive  admonitions,  Charles 
entered  Spain  with  a  large  army  [c.  1],  and  invested  Pam- 
peluna.  He  lay  three  months  before  this  town,  but  could 
not  take  it ;  because,  says  the  chronicle,  it  was  impreg- 
nable. At  the  end  of  this  period,  however,  he  bethought 
himself  of  prayer,  on  which  the  walls  followed  the  example 
of  their  tottering  prototypes  of  Jericho.  The  Saracens  who 
chose  to  embrace  Christianity  were  spared,  but  those  who 
persisted  in  infidelity  were  put  to  the  sword.  Charles 
then  paid  his  respects  to  the  sarcophagus  of  James,  and 
Turpin  had  the  satisfaction  of  baptizing  a  great  proportion 
of  the  Gallicians  in  the  neighbourhood  [c.  2]. 

The  main  object  with  this  bishop  and  his  master  was 
to  destroy  all  the  idols  which  could  be  discovered;  an 
undertaking  which,  among  a  people  who  abominate 
idolatry,  must  have  required  a  very  patient  research.  At 
length  these  images  were  completely  extirpated,  except  an 
obstinate  mawmet  at  Cadiz,  which  could  not  be  broken, 
because  it  was  inhabited  by  a  cluster  of  demons  [c.  4]. 

After  this  Charles  founded  a  number  of  churches,  and 
endowed  them  with  much  wealth ;  grants  which  were 
afterwards  reclaimed  with  great  zeal  by  a  successor,  who 
boasted  him  as  a  prototype  [c.  5] . 

Charles  had  scarcely  returned  to  France,  when  a 
strenuous  pagan,  named  Aigolandus,  recovered  the  whole 
country,  which  obliged  the  French  monarch  to  return  with 
great  armies,  of  which  he  gave  the  command  to  Milo,  the 
father  of  Orlando  [c.  6]. 

While  these  troops  were  lying  at  Bayonne,  a  soldier, 
named  Eomaricus,  died,  after  having  ordered  one  of  his 
relations  to  sell  his  horse,  and  distribute  the  price  among 


CH.  IV.]  CHBONICLE    OF    TURPIN.  277 

the  clergy  and  the  poor.  His  kinsman  sold  the  horse,  but 
spent  the  money  in  carousing.  After  thirty  days  the 
deceased,  who  had  been  detained  that  time  in  purgatory, 
appeared  in  a  dream,  upbraided  his  faithless  executor  for 
the  misapplication  of  the  alms,  and  notified  to  him  that 
he  might  depend  on  being  in  Tartarus  in  the  course  of  the 
following  day.  While  reporting  this  uncomfortable  assur- 
ance next  morning  to  his  fellow- soldiers,  he  is  hurried  off 
by  a  flight  of  demons,  and  dashed  against  a  rock  as  a  pre- 
liminary to  subsequent  punishment  [c.  7]. 

After  this  there  follows  a  long  account  of  the  war  with 
Aigolandus,  which  was  first  carried  on  by  two  hundred,  or 
two  thousand,  soldiers,  on  one  part,  engaging  an  equal 
number  of  the  enemy  :  but  at  length  a  general  battle  was 
fought,  in  which  were  slsim  forty  thousand  Christians,  Milo 
the  commander  of  the  forces,  and  the  horse  of  Charles. 
Next  day,  however,  the  French  having  been  reinforced  by 
four  thousand  men  from  the  coast  of  Italy,  Aigolandus  fled 
to  a  different  part  of  the  peninsula,  and  Charles  departed 
for  France  [c.  8]. 

Aigolandus  now  carried  the  war  into  Gascony,  followed 
by  the  Moabites,  Ethiopians,  Parthians,  and  Africans  [c. 
9].  At  Sanctona  (Saintonge),  previous  to  a  great  battle, 
certain  Christians  having  fixed  their  spears  in  the  ground 
towards  night,  found  them  decorated  next  morning  with 
leaves,  which  signified  to  the  proprietors  of  these  warlike 
instruments  that  they  were  about  to  obtain  the  crown  of 
martyrdom  [c.  10].  Aigolandus  was  defeated  in  the  battle 
with  the  loss  of  four  thousand  of  his  troops,  and  fled  to 
Pampeluna.  Thither  he  was  followed  by  Charles,  and  an 
army  of  a  hundred  and  thirty-four  thousand  men  [c.  11]. 
On  this  occasion  the  reader  is  presented  with  a  list  of  the 
chief  warriors,  among  whom  are  mentioned  the  names  of 
Orlando,  Rinaldo,  Oliviero,  and  Oano.  Charles  having  ar- 
rived at  Pampeluna,  received  a  message  from  Aigolandus, 
requesting  a  truce  till  his  army  should  come  forth  fully 
prepared  for  war  [c.  12]. 

This  being  granted,  Aigolandus  in  the  interval  paid  a 
visit  to  Charles,  and  was  much  astonished  to  hear  himself 
attacked  as  an  usurper  in  the  Arabic  tongue,  which  Charles 
had  learned  at  Coletus  (Toulouse).     Aigolandus  expostu- 


278  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

lated,  tliat  his  competitor  had  no  right  either  in  his  own 
person,  or  derived  from  his  ancestors,  to  the  throne  of  Spain ; 
but  Charles  replied,  that  the  country  must  be  conquered 
for  the  extension  of  the  Christian  religion.  This  brought 
on  a  theological  dispute  between  the  two  sovereigns,  which 
terminated  in  a  resolution  to  fight  on  the  following  day, 
with  a  hundred  soldiers  against  a  hundred,  and  a  thousand 
against  a  thousand :  but  Aigolandus  being  ultimately  van- 
quished in  this  singular  species  of  warfare,  agreed  to  be 
baptized  with  his  people.  For  this  purpose  he  came  to 
Charles  next  day,  and  found  that  monarch  carousing,  while 
thirteen  naked  beggars  were  sitting  on  the  ground  looking 
on  the  feast.  The  malapert  heathen  asked  who  these  were. 
Charles  replied,  rather  unfortunately,  that  they  were  the 
people  of  God  whom  he  was  feeding,  and  that  they  re- 
presented the  apostles.  Aigolandus  thereupon  notified 
that  he  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  such  a  faith 
[c.  14].^ 

Next  day  a  pitched  battle  was  fought,  in  which  Aigolandus 
having  only  a  hundred  thousand  troops,  and  his  enemy  a 
superiority  of  thirty-four  thousand,  was  entirely  defeated, 
and  was  himself  slain,  which  demonstrated  the  propriety 
of  the  mode  which  Charles  had  adopted  of  entertaining  the 
representatives  of  the  apostles  [c.  15]. 

The  French  monarch  next  carried  on  a  war  against  Furra, 
a  prince  of  Navarre.  On  the  approach  of  a  battle,  he 
prayed  that  the  sign  of  the  cross  mi^ht  appear  on  the 
shoulder  of  those  who  were  predestined  to  perish  in  the 
action.  In  order  to  evade  the  decrees  of  Providence,  Charles 
shut  up  the  soldiers  who  had  been  marked  in  consequence 
of  this  application,  in  his  oratory ;  but  on  returning  from 
the  battle,  in  which  he  vanquished  the  enemy,  he  foimd 
that  all  those  he  had  in  ward  were  dead,  to  the  number  of 
a  hundred  and  fifty,  which  evinced  the  impiety  of  his  pre- 
caution [c.  17]. 

While  in  Navarre,  it  is  reported  to  Charles  that  a  Syrian 
giant  of  first-rate  enormity,  called  Ferracutus  (the  Ferrau 

^  A  similar  story  occurs  in  the  Cento  Novelle  Antiche,  No.  24.  In 
this  case  the  answer  is  "  gli  amici  di  lor  Signore."  Sachetti  (Nov.  115), 
tells  the  same  story,  with  a  Spanish  Jew  instead  of  a  Sultan. — H. 
Jenner. 


CH.  lY.]  CHRONICLE    OF    TURPIN.  279 

of  the  Italians)/  had  appeared  at  Nagera.  This  creature 
possessed  most  exuberant  proportions :  he  was  twelve 
cubits  high,  his  face  was  a  cubit  in  length,  and  his  nose 
a  measured  palm.  As  soon  as  Charles  arrived  at  Nagera, 
this  unwieldy  gentleman  proposed  a  single  combat,  but 
the  king  was  so  little  tempted  by  a  personal  survey,  that 
he  declined  his  offer.  Ogerius  the  Dane  was  therefore  se- 
lected as  the  Christian  champion,  but  the  giant  trussing 
him  under  one  arm,  carried  him  off  to  the  town,  and 
served  a  succession  of  knights  in  a  similar  manner,  Or- 
lando at  length  went  out  against  him.  The  Saracen,  as 
■usual,  commenced  the  attack  by  pulling  his  antagonist  from 
the  saddle,  and  rode  off  with  him,  till  Orlando,  exerting  all 
his  force,  seized  him  by  the  chin,  and  both  fell  to  the 
ground.  When  they  had  remounted,  the  knight  thinking 
to  kill  the  pagan,  only  cut  off  the  head  of  his  horse.  Fer- 
rau  being  now  on  foot,  Orlando  struck  a  blow  on  his  arm 
that  knocked  the  sword  from  his  hand ;  on  which  the 
giant  slew  his  adversary's  horse  with  a  pat  of  his  fist. 
After  this  the  opponents  fought  on  foot,  and  with  swords, 
till  towards  evening,  when  Ferrau  demanded  a  truce  till 
next  day. 

In  the  morning  Orlando  had  recourse  to  a  new  sort  of 
implement ;  he  attacked  his  enemy  with  an  immense  club, 
which  had  no  more  effect  than  the  finer  weapon.  The 
champions  now  assaulted  each  other  with  stones ;  but  when 
this  species  of  warfare  was  at  the  hardest,  giants  being 
naturally  prone  to  somnolency,  Ferrau  became  overpowered 
with  sleep,  and  again  begged  a  truce.  When  he  had  com- 
posed himself  to  rest,  his  courteous  antagonist  placed  a 
stone  below  his  head,  that  he  might  sleep  more  softly. 
When  he  awoke,  Orlando  took  an  opportimity  of  asking 
him  how  he  was  so  hardy,  that  he  neither  dreaded  sword 
nor  batoon.   The  giant,  who  must  have  been  more  remark- 

^  Boiardo  (Orlando  Innamorato,  i.  iv.  8)  with  whom  Berni  agrees, 
calls  Ferragu's  father  Falsirone  and  his  mother  Laufusa,  mentioned  as 
a  witch  by  Ariosto  (Orl.  Fur.,  xxv.  74,  xxxv.  74).  The  incidents  of 
Ferragu's  carrying  off  his  antagonists  under  his  arm  is  used  by  Boiardo, 
i.  4,  40,  7,  12,  and  of  his  religious  disputation,  i.  18,  41,  etc.  Sec 
further  respecting  Farragut  in  Boiardo's  "  Roland,"  von  G.  Regis, 
Glossar.,  p.  407. 


280  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

able  for  strength  than  caution,  explained  the  whole  mys- 
tery, by  acknowledging  that  he  was  everywhere  invulner- 
able except  in  the  navel.  Ferrau,  in  his  turn,  made  less, 
pertinent  enquiries  concerning  the  name,  lineage,  and  faith 
of  his  foe.  This  last  subject  being  started,  Orlando,  hoping 
to  make  a  convert,  explained  the  articles  of  his  creed.  The 
giant  opened  the  controversy  by  questioning  the  possibility 
of  three  being  one,  but  Orlando  vanquished  his  arithmetical 
scruples  by  a  number  of  ingenious  illustrations  ;  as  that  an 
almond  is  a  single  nut,  though  it  consists  of  three  things, 
the  husk,  the  shell,  and  the  kernel.  The  disputant  replied, 
that  he  had  now  a  very  clear  conception  how  three  made 
one,  but  that  he  was  scandahzed  at  a  virgin  producing. 
Orlando  reminded  him  that  there  was  nothing  more  re- 
markable in  this,  than  in  the  original  creation  of  Adam. 
Our  giant  readily  waived  this  point,  but  could  not  compre- 
hend how  a  G-od  could  die.  The  arguments  on  this  head 
he  seems  to  have  been  as  little  prepared  to  canvass  as  the 
other  topics,  but  entrenched  himself  within  what  he  con- 
sidered his  last  stronghold,  that  the  G-od  who  died  could 
not  come  ahve  again.  It  was  argued  by  Orlando,  that 
there  was  nothing  impossible  in  this,  as  Elijah  and  Elisha 
readily  revived  after  their  death,  and  that  the  dead  cubs  of 
a  lioness  can  be  resuscitated  on  the  third  day,  by  the  breath 
of  the  mother.  Orlando  must,  no  doubt,  have  expected, 
that  the  ingenuity  of  this  last  illustration  would  have  com- 
pleted the  work  of  conversion  ;  what  then  must  have  been 
his  disappointment,  when  the  pertinacious  Saracen,  by  de- 
manding that  a  sword  should  be  admitted  into  the  con- 
ference, proved  that  his  head  was  as  impenetrable  to  argu- 
ment as  his  body  to  the  incomparable  edge  of  Durindana. 
In  the  ensuing  combat,  Orlando  made  great  use  of  the  in- 
formation he  had  received  concerning  the  perforable  part 
of  his  antagonist,  who  being  slain  in  consequence,  the 
city  of  Nagera  surrendered  to  the  arms  of  Charlemagne 
[c.  18]. 

After  this  success,  the  French  monarch  received  intelli- 
gence that  Ebraim,  king  of  Sibilia  (Seville),  who  had 
escaped  from  the  battle  before  Pampeluna,  was  encamped 
at  Cordova,  ready  to  resist  his  invasion.  Charles,  without 
loss  of  time,  marched  to  the  south  of  Spain.     When  the 


CH.  IV.]  CHRONICLE    OF    TURPIN.  281 

French  vanguard  approached  the  enemy,  it  found  that  the 
troops  of  the  hostile  army  wore  bearded  masks,  that  they 
had  added  horns  to  their  heads,  and  that  each  soldier  held 
a  drum  in  his  hand,  which  he  beat  with  prodigious  violence. 
The  horses,  quite  unaccustomed  to  this  sort  of  masquerade, 
immediately  took  fright,  and  spread  considerable  confusion 
in  the  Christian  army,  which  with  difficulty  retreated  to  an 
eminence.  Next  day,  however,  previous  to  an  attack, 
Charles  ordered  his  horses  to  be  hoodwinked,  and  their 
ears  to  be  stopped  with  wax.  This  stratagem,  or  ars  mira- 
hilis,  as  it  is  called  in  the  chronicle,  rendered  useless  the 
martial  prelude  of  the  enemy,  and  gained  Charles  the  vic- 
tory. A  similar  device  is  resorted  to,  on  a  like  occasion,  in 
the  metrical  romance  of  Kichard  Coeur  de  Lion,  by  the 
English  monarch.' 

The  capture  of  Cordova  was  the  immediate  fruit  of  the 
success  of  Charlemagne,  and  Spain  being  now  entirely  sub- 
dued, the  conqueror  made  a  proper  partition  cf  the  king- 
dom. He  bestowed  Navarre  on  the  Britons,  Castille  on  the 
French,  and  Arragon  on  the  Greeks,  while  Andalusia  and 
Portugal  were  assigned  to  the  Flemings  [c.  19]. 

After  the  account  of  this  distribution,  the  historian  most 
seasonably  introduces  a  description  of  the  person  of  his 
hero,  and  the  capacities  of  his  stomach.  As  to  his  external 
appearance,  he  had  dark  hair,  a  ruddy  countenance,  a  stern 
aspect,  but  a  graceful  and  elegant  form.  This,  indeed,  ap- 
pears from  his  dimensions,  for  his  legs  were  thick,  his  alti- 
tude eight  feet,  and  his  belly  protuberant.  His  daily  con- 
sumption of  provisions,  though  almost  incredible,  scarcely 
exceeds  that  of  Louis  XIV.,  of  whose  diet  an  account  has 
been  served  up  in  the  Walpoliana.^  During  night,  Charles 
was  guarded  by  a  hundred  and  twenty  of  the  orthodox, 
who  relieved  each  other  during  three  watches,  ten  being 
placed  at  his  head,  ten  at  his  feet,  and  the  same  number 
on  either  side,  each  holding  a  naked  falchion  in  one  hand 
and  a  burning  torch  in  the  other  [c.  21]. 

When  Charles  had  arrived  as  far  as  Pampeluna  on  his 
return  to  France,  he  bethought  himself  that  he  had  yet  left 
in  Spain  two  Saracen  kings,  Marsirius  (the  same  who  in 

^  See  Ellis,  Metr.  Rom.  iii.  p.  267,  etc. 

'  This  reference  of  Dunlop's  would  seem  to  be  erroneous. 


282  HISTORY    OF   FICTION,  [CH.  IV. 

Ariosto  is  present  at  the  siege  of  Paris  by  Agramante),  and 
his  brother  Beligandus,  who  reigned  jointly  at  Csesarau- 
gusta  (Saragossa).  To  these  miscreants  he  despatched 
Gannalon  (the  Gan  Traditor  of  Italian  poets)  ^  to  expatiate 
on  the  necessity  of  their  paying  tribute  and  receiving  bap- 
tism. They  sent  Charles  a  quantity  of  sweet  wine  and  a 
thousand  houris,  but  at  the  same  time  bribed  the  ambas- 
sador to  betray  his  master.  Gannalon,  on  his  return  to 
head-quarters,  reported  that  Marsirius  was  well  disposed 
to  become  a  Christian  and  to  pay  tribute.  Trusting  to  this 
information,  Charles  made  a  disposition  on  his  march  to 
France,  by  which  he  lost  the  half  of  his  army.  He  him- 
self passed  the  Pyrenees  in  safety  with  part  of  his  troops ; 
but  the  second  division,  commanded  by  Orlando,  consisting 
of  20,000  men,  was  unexpectedly  attacked  in  the  defiles  of 

^  Ganelon  is  placed  by  Dante  (Inf.  xxxii.)  in  the  second  division  of 
the  ninth  circle  of  Hell : — 

"  I  turn'd 
And  saw  before  and  underneath  my  feet 
A  lake  whose  frozen  surface  liker  seem'd 
To  glass  than  water  ....  thus  low 
Blue  pinched  and  shrined  in  ice  the  spirits  stood, 
Moving  their  teeth  in  shrill  note  like  the  stork. 
His  face  each  downward  held  ;  their  mouth  the  cold, 
Their  eyes  express'd  the  dolour  of  their  heart. 


If  I  misdeem  not,  Soldanieri  bides, 
With  Ganellon,  and  Tribaldello,"  etc. 

While,  on  the  one  hand,  very  various  etymologies  have  been  suggested 
for  the  word  Ganelon,  on  the  other  it  has  been  sought  to  dei-ive  from  it 
the  Romance  verb  ingannare,  engaiiar,  to  cheat,  a  word  from  which  more 
probably,  however,  the  name  itself  took  origin.  Ingannare,  old  French 
engigner,  is  probably  from  ingenmm  in  its  later  sense  of  dolus,  astutia. 
Ganelon  became  a  mediaeval  proverbial  type  of  perfidy.  The  historical 
personage  which  underlies  the  character  is  probably  the  Aquitanian 
Duke  Lope  or  Lupus,  see  Grimm  (Einleitung  zum  Kolandslied,  p.  cxix.), 
who  cites  a  document  dated  January  21,  845,  issued  by  Charles  the 
Bald,  wherein  the  latter  calls  Lupus,  "  omnibus  pejoribus  pessimus,  ac 
perfidissimus  supra  omnes  mortales,  operibus  et  nomine  Lupus,  latro 
potius  quam  dux  dicendus,"  etc.  See  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt,  Wiener 
Jahrb.,  bd.  xxxi.  p.  101,  and  Regis,  Boiardo,  p.  415-16.  See  also  Du- 
cange  (voc,  Ganelo),  who  conjectures  an  identity  between  Ganelon  and 
Guinille  or  Wenille,  upon  whom  Charles  the  Bald  conferred  the  arch- 
bishopric of  Sens. 


CH.  IV.]  CHRONICLE    OF    TURPIN.  283 

Roncesvalles,  by  a  guerilla  of  50,000  Saracens,  and  was  cut 
to  pieces,  except  Orlando  and  a  few  knights  [c.  22]/ 

The  main  body  of  the  pagans  having  retired,  Orlando 
discovered  a  stray  Saracen,  whom  he  bound  to  a  tree. 
After  this  exploit  he  ascended  an  eminence,  and  sounded 
his  ivory  horn,- which  rallied  around  him  a  hundred  Chris- 
tians, the  remains  of  his  army.  Though  the  pagans  had, 
with  little  loss  to  themselves,  reduced  his  soldiers  from 
20,000  to  100,  Orlando  by  no  means  despaired  of  dis- 
comfiting the  host  of  his  enemy.  He  returned  with  his 
small  band  to  the  Saracen  he  had  put  in  durance,  and 
threatened  to  kill  him  imless  he  would  show  him  Mar- 
sirius.  The  Saracen  yielded  to  so  powerful  an  argument, 
and  pointed  out  his  king,  who  was  distinguished  by  his 
bay  horse  and  round  shield.  Orlando  rushed  among  the 
pagans  and  slew  their  monarch,  which  induced  Beligandus 
to  fall  back  with  his  army  on  Saragossa.  In  this  brilliant 
enterprise  the  hundred  Christians  were  killed,  and  their 
commander  severely  wounded.  Wandering  through  a 
forest,  Orlando  arrived  alone  at  the  entrance  to  the  pass  of 
Cisera,  where,  exhausted  with  wounds,  and  grieving  for 
the  loss  of  his  army,  he  threw  himself  under  a  tree.  As  a 
refreshment,  he  commenced  a  long  address  to  his  sword 
Durindana,^  which  he  complimented  with  all  the  super- 

^  The  valley  of  Eoncesvalles,  where  this  catastrophe  is  supposed  to 
have  happened,  lies  to  the  north-east  of  Fampeluna.  It  extends  to  St. 
Jean  Pied  de  Porte  in  Basse  Navarre,  and  receives  its  name  from  the 
mountain  of  Koneesvalles,  which  terminates  this  plain,  and  is  accounted 
the  highest  of  the  Pyrenees. 

'  Named  Olivant  or  Oliphant.     Turpin  calls  it ''  tuba  eburnea." 

^  The  name  is  found  with  several  variations,  Durandal,  Durendar, 
Durrenda,  Durandarda.  Boiardo  makes  it  first  Hector's,  then  Almont's, 
then  Roland's  sword.  For  conjectured  etymologies  see  Ducange,  Gloss. 
See  also  Kegis,  Boiardo,  p.  406,  for  an  account  of  the  weapon.  In  the 
same  connection  may  be  consulted  an  article  upon  swords  in  the  Con- 
temporary Review,  vol.  xxxviii.  p.  595,  etc.  Plutarch  says  (Mallet's 
Northern  Antiquities,  cit.)  that  the  heroes  of  the  Cimbri  called  their 
swords  by  such  names  as  might  inspire  terror. 

See  an  article  on  Swords  of  Celtic  Romance,  All  the  Year  Round, 
1879,  xxii.  p.  271. 

Sword  Names. 
Balmung,  in  the  Nibelungenlied.    Siegfried's  sword. 
Ascalon.     St.  George's.     Seven  Champions. 


284  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

latives  in  the  Latin  language — "  Fortitudine  firmissime, 
capulo  eburneo  eandidissime,  cruce  aurea  splendidissime," 
&c.  &c. 

The  dying  champion  next  blew  his  horn  with  such  force 
that  he  burst  it.^  Charles,  who  was  then  in  Gascony, 
heard  the  peal  distinctly,  and  wished  to  return  to  the  suc- 
cour of  his  nephew,  but  was  persuaded  by  Gannalon  that 
he  could  be  in  no  danger,  and  that  he  was  merely  taking 
the  diversion  of  hunting  in  the  forests.  The  blast,  however, 
brought  to  him  Theodoricus,  the  only  surviving  knight. 
Orlando  had  received  the  Sacrament  that  morning,  and 
had  confessed  himself  to  certain  priests,  which  this  learned 
chronicle  informs  us  was  the  universal  custom  of  knights 
before  proceeding  to  battle.  Nothing,  therefore,  remained 
for  the  hero  but  to  make  a  long  prayer  before  he  expired.^ 

Marandaise.     Eyance's. 

Excalibur  or  Caliburn.     King  Arthur's. 

Arondight.     Lancelot's. 

Joyeuse.     Charlemagne's. 

Durindana.     Roland's. 

rioberge.     Renaud  de  Montauban's. 

Maroke.     Sir  Eglamour's; 

Morglay.     Sir  Bevis  of  Hampton's. 

Tizona  (Firebrand).     The  Cid's. 

Colada.     The  Cid's  second. 

Bowannee.     Sivajee's  (India). 

Corouge.     Sir  Otuel's. 

Curtana.     At  coronation  of  Henry  IH. 

Crocea  Mors.     J.  Caesar's. 

^  This  horn  has  been  of  infinite  service  to  future  poets  and  romancers. 
Logystilla,  in  the  Orlando  Furioso  (c.  15,  14),  bestows  it  on  Astolpho,  and 
Prince  Arthur's  squire  is  furnished  with  a  similar  one  by  Spenser 
(Faery  Queen,  b.  i.  c.  viii.  st.  3,  4).  Warton  (History  of  English  Poetry, 
ed.  1871,  ii.  p.  135)  thinks  the  idea  of  this  potent  horn  may  have  origi- 
nated in  Simeon  Seth's  "Life  of  Alexander."  Warton,  however, 
merely  writes  as  he  says  from  memory,  and  may  have  had  in  his  mind 
the  history  De  Cornu  Sancti  Simeonis,  apud  Gervase,  Tilbur.  Otia  Im- 
per.  iii.  70.  These  marvellous  horns  are  perhaps  to  be  traced  to  that  of 
Alecto  in  ./Eneis  vii.  513. 

The  idea,  says  Liebrecht,  in  a  note  on  the  present  passage,  may  be 
more  plausibly  regarded  as  a  reflection  of  the  Gjallarhorn  of  Heimdal, 
audible  throughout  the  world,  and  wherewith  he  is  to  give  the  signal  for 
battle  at  the  Twilight  of  the  Gods.  The  whistle  of  the  Slavonic  robber 
chief  Solovyof  is  audible  afar  and  slays  all  (except  the  hero)  whose  ears 
it  reaches. 

^  It  may  be  noted,  however,  that  the  knights  sometimes  confessed  one 


CH.  IV.]  CHRONICLE    OP    TURPIN.  285 

At  this  very  moment  Turpiu  was  standing  by  King 
Charles,  saying  mass  for  the  souls  of  certain  persons  lately 
deceased,  and  informs  the  reader,  that  while  thus  em- 
ployed, he  heard  the  songs  of  the  angels  who  were  convey- 
ing Orlando  to  Heaven.  At  the  same  time  a  phalanx  of 
demons  passed  before  the  archbishop,  and  notified  that 
they  were  so  far  on  their  way  to  Gehenna  with  the  soul  of 
one  Marsirius,  but  that  Michael,  with  an  angel  crowd,  was 
conveying  the  trumpeter  aloft  (Tubicinem  virum  cum 
multis  Michael  fert  ad  superna).  As  no  person  could  doubt 
the  accuracy  of  these  respectable  deponents,  Turpin  an- 
nounced to  Charles  the  death  of  his  nephew.  Charles 
immediately  returned  to  Eoncesvalles,  where  he  uttered  a 
learned  lamentation  over  the  remains  of  Orlando,  whom 
he  compared  to  Samson,  Saul,  Jonathan,  and  Judas  Mac- 
cabeus, and  then  embalmed  the  body  with  balsam,  myrrh, 
and  aloes. 

Charles  now  thought  of  taking  vengeance  on  the  hea- 
then, as  an  incitement  to  which  the  sun  held  out  to  him 
the  same  encouragement  it  had  formerly  done  to  Joshua. 
By  this  means  he  came  up  with  the  Saracens,  while  yet 
reposing  on  the  banks  of  the  Ebro  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Saragossa.  Of  them  he  killed  four  thousand,  a  favourite 
number  with  this  historian,  and  then  returned  to  Eon- 
cesvalles. Here  he  instituted  an  inquiry  into  the  conduct 
of  G-annalon,  and  the  champion  of  that  traitor  having  been 
slain  in  single  combat,  he  was  tied  to  the  four  most  ferocious 
horses  in  the  army,  and  thus  torn  to  pieces. 

There  is  next  related  the  manner  in  which  the  Chris- 
tians preserved  the  bodies  of  their  friends,  and  the  final 
interment  of  each  species  of  mummy. ^ 

to  another,  when  no  priest  was  at  hand.  Sec  Joinville,  Histoire  de  St. 
Louis,  ed.  De  Wailly,  Paris,  1874,  p.  195.  There  were  also  symbolical 
or  superstitious  forms  of  communion,  with  leaves,  etc.  See  Chanson  de 
Roland,  ed.  L.  Gautier,  line  2023,  and  note.  See  also  Caesarius  Heister- 
bacensis  Dial,  de  Mirac.  Distinctio  5,  cap.  xix. ;  and  Hugo  Grotius^ 
Dissert,  de  Ccenae  Administratione  ubi  pastores  non  sunt.  Letters  con- 
taining some  information  on  these  points  appeared  in  the  '♦  Tablet," 
January  and  February,  1886. 

'  The  origin  and  incidents  of  this  expedition  of  Charlemagne  are  told 
in  a  totally  different  manner  by  the  Spanish  historians.  They  assert 
that  Charlemagne  was  called  into  Spain  by  Alphonso,  king  of  Leon,  on 


286  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

The  emperor  having  returned  to  Paris,  St.  Denis  in- 
formed him,  in  a  dream,  that  all  those  who  had  fallen  in 
Spain  had  their  sins  forgiven ;  and  at  the  same  time  took 
the  opportunity  of  mentioning  that  a  similar  mercy  would 
be  extended  to  those  who  gave  money  for  building  his 
church.  Those  who  contributed  willingly  were  freed  from 
all  servitude,  whence  the  name  of  Gaul  was  changed  into 
France. 

Charles  had  been  much  debilitated  by  his  campaign  in 
the  peninsula.  For  the  sake  of  the  warm  baths  he  re- 
paired to  Leodio  (Liege),  where  he  built  a  palace,  in  which 
was  painted  the  story  of  his  wars  in  Spain.  Now  it  fell 
out  that  one  day,  while  Turpin,  who  resided  at  Yiennes, 
was  officiating  before  the  altar,  a  host  of  demons,  who 
seem  to  be  the  newsmongers  in  this  history,  passed  before 
him  with  unusual  velocity.  Having  interrogated  one  of 
these,  who  resembled  an  Ethiopian,  and  was  lagging  be- 
hind the  rest,  he  was  advertised  that  they  were  all  going 
to  attend  at  the  death  of  Charles,  and  hurry  his  soul  to 
Tartarus.  Turpin  requested  that,  having  despatched  their 
errand,  they  would  return  with  the  earliest  intelligence. 
The  fiends  were  faithful  to  their  appointment,  but  were 
reduced  to  the  mortifying  acknowledgment  that  a  G-ali- 
cian,  without  a  head,  having  weighed  the  sins  and  merits 
of  Charles,  had  deprived  them  of  their  expected  prize,  and 
conveyed  the  soul  in  a  quite  contrary  direction  from  what 
they  had  intended.  In  fifteen  days  after,  a  special  mes- 
senger or  express  arrived  at  Yiennes,  who  confirmed  the 
deposition  of  the  demons  as  to  the  death  of  Charles,  a  loss 
which  could  have  excited  no  surprise,  as  the  sun  and  moon 

a  promise  to  nominate  him  as  a  successor  if  he  would  assist  in  the  expul- 
sion of  the  Moors.  Charlemagne  was  successful  in  his  efforts  against  the 
infidels,  but  the' nobles  and  chieftains  of  Alphonso  disapproving  of  the 
ulterior  part  of  their  sovereign's  compact,  supported  by  Bernardo  del 
Carpio,  and  at  length  by  their  own  monax-ch,  attacked  and  cut  to  pieces 
an  immense  army,  with  which  the  French  emperor  had  encamped  on  the 
plain  of  Roncesvalles.  The  incidents  are  represented  in  a  similar  manner 
in  the  Spanish  romantic  poems.  In  the  Orlando  of  Nicholas  Espinosa, 
Con  el  verdadero  success©  de  la  famosa  Batalla  de  Roncesvalles,  pub- 
lished 1557,  Bernardo  del  Carpio  stifles  Orlando  to  death,  and  the  poet 
declares, 

"  Cantera  la  verdad  aquesta  historia, 
Y  no  segun  Turpin  Frances  lo  siente." 


CH.  IV,]  CHRONICLE    OF    TURPIN.  287 

had  prepared  the  minds  of  his  subjects  for  the  event,  by 
assuming  a  black  colour  for  six  days  preceding  his  decease. 
Besides,  his  name  was  spontaneously  effaced  from  a  church ; 
and  a  wooden  bridge  over  the  Rhine,  which  took  six  years 
to  build,  had  been  recently  consumed  by  internal  fire. 

Turpin  concludes  his  history  with  a  remark,  which  seems 
to  be  intended  as  the  moral  of  the  whole  work,  that  he 
who  builds  a  church  on  earth  cannot  fail  of  obtaining  a 
palace  in  Heaven. 

I  have  given  this  minute  analysis  of  the  absurd  chronicle 
of  Turpin  in  deference  to  the  common  opinion,  that  it  had 
a  remarkable  influence  on  the  early  romances  relating  to 
Charlemagne,  and  thence  on  the  splendid  monuments  of 
human  genius  that  have  been  erected  by  the  Itahan  poets. 
It  must,  however,  be  remarked,  that  there  are  few  incidents 
in  this  work  which  breathe  the  spirit  of  romantic  fiction. 
There  are  no  castles  nor  dragons,  no  amorous  knights,  and 
no  distressed  damsels.  The  chronicle  is  occupied  with 
wars  on  an  extensive  scale,  and  with  the  theological  con- 
troversies of  chiefs  in  the  Saracen  and  Christian  aiTaies. 
Indeed  the  camj^aign  of  Charlemagne  seems  to  have  been 
chiefly  formed  on  the  model  of  the  wars  of  Joshua.  Jericho 
and  Pampeluna  fall  in  the  same  manner  into  the  hands  of 
the  besiegers  :  the  stratagem  of  Marsirius  resembles  that 
of  the  Gribeonites,  and  the  victors  divide  the  conquered 
lands  in  a  similar  manner  among  their  followers.  Many 
wonders,  it  is  true,  are  related  in  the  chronicle  of  Turpin, 
but  they  more  resemble  the  miracles  of  the  monkish  legends 
than  the  beautiful  fables  that  decorate  romance.  These 
fictions,  according  to  the  j^rinciples  already  established, 
must  have  flowed  from  other  sources,  though  the  historical 
materials  to  be  found  in  some  of  the  romances  of  Charle- 
magne may  have  been  derived  from  the  chronicle.^  It  has 
been  much  doubted  whether  the  Italian  poets  consulted 
the  original  Turpin.  Ariosto  quotes  him  for  stories  of 
which  he  does  not  say  a  single  word,  and  which  are  the 
most  absurd  and  incredible  in  his  poem  ;  as  Voltaire,  subse- 
quently, in  the  Pucelle  d'Orleans,  laid  the  07ins  j^rohandi 
on  the  Abbe  Tritheme.     Thus  in  the  Orlando  Furioso, 

^  Modern  critics  no  longer  hold  this  view.     See  note  infra,  p.  293. 


288  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [qH.  IV. 

Scrive  Turpino,  come  furo  ai  Passi 
Dell  alto  Atlante,  che  i  cavalli  loro 
Tutti  in  un  punto  diventaron  Sassi. — C.  44,  st.  23. 

Boiardo,  whose  Orlando  Innamorato,  in  its  original  form, 
is  the  most  serious  of  the  romantic  poems  of  Italy,  jocularly 
calls  the  chronicle  of  Turpin  his  True  History,  as  Cervantes 
terms  his  feigned  authorities, 

La  vera  Historia  di  Turpin  ragiona 
Che  regnava  in  la  terra  d'Oriente,  &c. 

Orl.  Inn.,  c.  1,  st.  4. 

The  incidents  in  the  Morgante  Maggiore  of  Pulci  are  those 
which  approach  nearest  to  the  chronicle,  yet  Crescimbeni 
has  asserted  that  it  was  never  seen  by  that  father  of 
romantic  poetry.^  The  conclusion  of  the  Morgante,  how- 
ever, seems  almost  copied  from  Turpin.  Gano  is  there  sent 
ambassador  to  King  Marsiho  to  negotiate  a  treaty :  he  trea- 
cherously writes  that  this  king  is  ready  to  pay  tribute,  and 
requests  Charlemagne  to  send  his  paladins  to  Roncesvalles 
to  receive  it.  There  they  are  attacked  by  the  Saracens. 
Orlando  sounded  his  horn,  but  Gano  at  first  persuaded 
Charles  that  he  was  hunting.  At  the  third  blast,  however, 
the  king  proceeded  to  Spain,  but  Orlando  was  dead  before 
his  arrival.  He  then  besieged  and  took  Saragossa  ;  and, 
after  the  return  to  France,  Gano  was  pulled  to  pieces  by 
four  horses.  These  circumstances  bear  a  stronger  resem- 
blance to  the  chronicle  of  Turpin  than  to  any  intermediate 
romance,  for  it  is  clear  that  the  French  romance  of  Mor- 
gante is  not  the  original,  but  a  version  of  the  Italian  poem. 
But  whatever  may  have  been  its  effect  on  the  Italian 
poems,  it  is  probable,  from  its  wide  circulation  and  great 
popularity,  that  the  chronicle  of  Turpin  had  some  influence 
on  the  romances  of  Charlemagne,  or  at  least  the  metrical 
tales  from  which  they  were  immediately  formed.^  The 
work  was  very  generally  read  in  the  fourteenth  century, 
and  was  several  times  translated  into  French  with  varia- 
tions and  additions.      Of   these  versions  the   first  is  by 

^  "  Luigi  Pulci  spesso  volta  la  cita  piu  per  giuoco,  crediam  noi,  che 
perche  egli  1'  avesse  veduta." — Istoria  della  Volg.  Poes.,  i,  329. 
*  See  note,  p.  293,  and  Komania,  Nos.  55-56,  p.  398,  etc. 


CH.  IV.]  CHRONICLE    OF    TURPIN.  289 

Michel  de  Harnes,  who  lived  as  early  as  the  time  of  Philip 
Augustus,'  and  the  next  by  Gaguin,  who  was  librarian  to 
Charles  VIII."  There  were  also  a  number  of  French 
metrical  paraphrases,  which  were  nearly  coeval  with  the 
original  chronicle. 

In  the  reign  of  St.  Louis  (1226-1270)  there  appeared  a 
romance  in  verse  on  the  exploits  of  Charlemagne  by  Jean 
Bodel,  which  chiefly  relates  to  the  wars  of  that  monarch 
with  the  Saxons  and  their  celebrated  chief  Guitichens 
(Witikend). 

About  the  time  of  Philip  the  Hardy  (1270-1285),  Girard, 
or  Girardin,  of  Amiens,  composed  a  metrical  romance  on  the 
actions  of  Charlemagne,  divided  into  three  books.  Of  these 
the  first  gives  an  account  of  an  early  expedition  of  Charles, 
under  the  name  of  Maine,  into  Arragon,  to  assist  Galaf re,  a 
Saracen,  whose  daughter  he  marries  after  vanquishing  her 
father's  enemies  ;  a  story  which,  in  a  much  later  romance, 
is  told  of  Charles  Martel.  The  second  book  contains  his 
wars  in  Italy  against  Didier,  king  of  the  Lombards,  and 
differs  little  from  what  is  contained  in  the  authentic 
histories  relating  to  Charlemagne.  The  third  book  is  a 
rhythmical  version  of  the  chronicle  of  Turpin. 

Nearly  at  the  same  time,  in  another  voluminous  metrical 
romance,  an  account  was  given  of  Charlemagne's  prepara- 
tions for  his  expedition  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  the  adven- 
tures of  some  of  his  knights  who  preceded  him  to  that 
region.  Nothing,  however,  is  said  of  the  conquest  of 
Palestine,  and  indeed  the  reality  of  this  enterprise  is  denied 
by  all  authentic  historians,  though  it  found  its  way  into 
many  of  the  absurd  and  fabulous  chronicles  of  the  thirteenth 
and  fourteenth  centuries.^ 

^  See  Ducange,  Glossaire  to  Villehardouin's  "  Histoire  de  TEmpire  de 
Constantinople,"  Paris,  1657,  s.v.  Bozine,  Guenchir,  etc.  Accordino-, 
however,  to  Reiffcnberg,  see  in  Philippe,  Mouskes,  ii.  p.  elxxix.  it 
was  composed  by  Maistre  Jean  at  the  behest  of  Michel  de  Harnes,  a 
Belgian  nobleman. — Lieb. 

-  Hist.  Litt.  de  la  France,  iv.  p.  209. 

^  On  this  Chanson  du  pelerinage  de  Charlemagne,  see  an  article  in 
Romania,  ix.  (1880),  pp.  1-50,  by  M.  Gaston  Paris,  who  shows  that  it 
may  probably  have  been  composed  in  the  eleventh  century,  before  the 
first  crusade,  but  not  have  received  its  present  form  till  the  thirteenth 
century.  An  analysis  and  account  of  the  work  is  given  by  Leon  Gautier, 

I.  u 


290  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 


Philomena. 

There  is  anotlier  work  somewliat  resembling  tlie  chronicle 
of  Turpin,  which,  according  to  the  authors  of  L'Histoire 
Litteraire  de  la  France,  was  not  later  than  the  middle  of  the 
tenth  century,  while  the  Count  de  Cajlus  places  its  compo- 
sition in  the  reign  of  Louis  IX.  (1226-1270).     It  is  called 

in  Epopees  Franijaises,  iii.  (1880).  It  has  been  edited  by  F.  Michel, 
London,  1836,  and  by  E.  Koschwitz,  in  the  Altfranzosische  Bibliothek 
(Heilbronn,  1880),  from  the  only  MS.  extant,  formerly  in  the  British 
Museum  (Reg.  16,  E.  viii.).  Simon  de  Pouille,  another  chanson  de  geste 
of  about  5,200  alexandrines,  relating  an  expedition  sent  by  Charlemagne 
against  the  Saracens  in  the  East,  is  also  analyzed  by  Michel  in  the  work 
above  mentioned.  Ward,  Cat.  i.  pp.  625-629.  The  printed  prose  version 
of  Charlemagne's  pilgrimage,  which  appeared  under  the  name  of  Galyen 
Rhetore,  or  Restore,  will  be  found  described  further  on,  p.  315.  Albericus 
Trium  Fontium,  under  date  802,  mentions  an  expedition  of  Charlemagne 
to  Constantinople  and  Jerusalem. — Lieb. 

This  figment  of  Charlemagne's  voyage  to  the  East  offers  a  striking 
example  of  the  growth  of  fiction  about  a  historical  personage,  and,  in 
accordance  with  the  scope  of  the  present  work,  atfords  an  opportunity 
for  presenting  the  reader  with  a  view  of  the  filiation  of  the  different 
versions  of  the  romance,  as  deduced  from  the  internal  evidence  of  the 
material  extant,  by  modern  specialist  critics,  and  will  be  as  good  a  way 
as  any  of  giving  some  idea  of  the  nature  of  their  labour,  though  by  no 
means  of  its  extent,  which  has  in  recent  years  attained  enormous  pro- 
portions. 

The  Danish  fifteenth  century  Karl  Magnus's  "  Krbnicke,"  and  the  old 
Swedish  version,  have  both  been  deduced  to  a  common  source,  which  is 
no  longer  extant,  and  may,  therefore,  be  hypothetically  designated  by  a. 
Similarly,  the  four  known  Norse  manuscripts,  distinguished  into  two 
groups,  are  all  derived  through  probable  intermediate  texts,  a,  /3,  from 
a  prior  supposed  text,  k,  which  also  perhaps  w^as  the  basis  of  the  Ice- 
landic rhymed  Geiplur.  k  and  a  are  regarded  as  descended  from  the 
Karlamagnus  Saga  in  the  text  edited  Christiania,  1860.  Now,  besides 
the  above  Scandinavian  forms  of  the  work,  several  French  prose  versions 
of  the  romance  exist :  that  known  as  the  Arsenal  Library  MS.,  and 
that  which  passed  under  the  name  of  Galiende  Restore,  which  itself  has 
various  texts.  These  later  prose  versions  exhibit  indications  of  an  imme- 
diate metrical  source,  no  longer  known,  v,  which  in  its  turn  proceeds, 
with  the  Karlamagnus  Saga,  from  a  common  fount,  again  hypothetical, 
y.  In  collateral  relation  to  this  fount,  y,  stands  the  Welsh  Ystoria 
Charles  of  the  Mabinogion,  both  being  further  referred  to  a  supposed 
text,  z,  which  again  is  derived  from  the  same  original,  o,  as  the  old 
French  Chanson  du  pelerinage  de  Charlemagne,  Brit.  Mus.  ^Qg.  16, 
E.  viii.     So  that  the  stemma  may  be  thus  represented  : — 


CH.  IV,]  PHILOMENA.  291 

Philomena,^  a  name  derived  from  that  of  a  jiresumed  con- 
temporary of  Charlemagne,  to  whom  it  was  attributed,  and 
by  whom  it  was  reported  to  have  been  composed  en  langue 
vulgaire.  It  is  said  to  have  been  subsequently  translated  into 
Latin,  between  1015-1019,  by  a  certain  Vidal  or  Gilles,  at  the 
request  of  Bernard,  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  Notre  Dame 


Chanson  du  z 
pelerinage  de  I 
Charlfmagne.     | 

Welsh 

Vstoria 

Charles. 


Karl  Magnus  Saga. 

h 


r- 


Rhymed         Norse  Norse  Old  Karl  Arsenal      Galien  Rethore, 

Icelandic        MSS.,  MSS.,  Swedish       Magnus      MS.  Viaggio  in  Ispag- 

Geiplur.  group  1.       group  2.      version.       Kronik,  na,  ed.  by  Ceruti. 

Danish.  | 

Eighteenth  cen- 
tury imitations  by 
La  Chaussee,  and 
M.  J.  Chenier. 

The  works  which  have  been  cousulted  for  these  remarks,  and  in  which 
the  subject  may  be  further  pursued  are  : — 

G.  Paris,  Histoire  Poetique  de  Charlema^e,  Paris,  1865  ;  E.  Kosch- 
witz,  Karls  des  Grossen  Reise  nach  Jerusalem,  Bd.  ii.  of  the  Allfranzo- 
sische  Bibliothek,  Heilbronn,  1880  ;  E.  Koschwitz,  Sechs  Bearbeitungen 
des  Altfranzosischen  Gedichts  von  Karls  .  .  ,  Reise,  etc,  Heilbronn, 
1879  ;  and  E.  Koschwitz,  Ueberlieferung  und  Sprache  der  Chanson  du 
Voyage  de  Charlemagne,  etc,  Heilbronn,  1876,  and  M.  Leon  Gautier's 
fine  work,  "  Les  Epopees  Fran(;aises,"  etc,  1878,  etc.,  vol.  iii. 

^  The  Philomena  has  been  edited  by  S.  Ciampi,  under  the  title,  Gesta 
Caroli  Magni  ad  Carcassonam  et  Narbonam  et  de  aedificatione  Monas- 
terii  Crassensis  (Florence,  1823).  This  Latin  text  is  pronounced  by 
M.  Paul  Meyer  (Recherches  sur  I'Epopee  francaise,  1867,  pp.  26-33)  to 
be  a  translation  from  the  Provencal  text,  composed  about  1200,  which 
has  been  preserved  only,  as  far  as  is  known,  in|the  British  Museum  MS. 
21,218,  and  in  a  Gascon  variety  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale  MS.  Er. 
2232.  See  Ward,  Cat.,  vol.  i.  p.  596-8,  where  reference  to  various 
notices  of  the  work  will  be  found.  Specimens  of  the  Proven9al  text, 
which  has  not  been  printed  as  yet  in  extenso,  will  be  found  in  the  Bib- 
liotheque des  Romans,  October,  1777,  i,  p.  170.  See  also  the  Academic 
des  Inscriptions,  etc.,  vol.  xxi. ;  Gaillard,  Hist,  de  Charlemagne, 
iii.  384. 


292  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

de  la  G-rasse.  It  contains  an  account  of  the  exploits  of  the 
emperor  against  the  Moors  of  Spain,  but  is  more  especially 
devoted  to  the  history  and  miracles  of  the  abbey,  the 
foundation  of  which  the  author  attributes  to  Charlemagne. 
In  the 

Eeali  di  Francia,^ 

an  ancient  Italian  chronicle,  we  are  presented  with  a 
fabulous  account  of  the  early  periods  of  the  French 
monarchy  previous  to  the  age  of  Charlemagne,  the  first 
exploits  of  that  monarch,  and  the  amours  of  Milo,  father 
of  Orlando,  with  Bertha,  Charlemagne's  sister. 

There  were  also  many  rhythmical  French  romances  on 
the  subject  of  the  paladins  of  Charlemagne.  The  northern 
bards,  who  followed  Rollo  to  France,  introduced  their  native 
traditions ;  those,  for  instance,  relating  to  Ogier  the  Dane, 
and  other  northern  heroes,  who  were  afterwards  enlisted 
into  the  tales  of  chivalry.  The  earliest  French  metrical 
romances  related,  as  we  have  seen,  to  Arthur ;  but  when 
Normandy  had  fallen  under  the  dominion  of  the  kings  of 
France,  and  that  country  began  to  look  on  England  with 
an  eye  of  jealousy,  which  was  the  prelude  to  more  open 
hostility,  the  native  minstrels  changed  their  theme  of  the 
praises  of  the  Eound  Table  knights  to  the  more  acceptable 
subject  of  the  paladins  of  Charlemagne.  In  the  thirteenth 
century,  Adenez,  who  was  a  kind  of  poet  laureat  to 
Henry  III.,  duke  of  Brabant,  wrote  the  metrical  romance, 
L'Fnfance  d'Ogier  le  Danois ;  and  about  the  same  period, 
Huon  de  Villeneuve  produced  the  still  more  celebrated 
compositions  of  E-egnauld  de  Montauban,  Doolin  de 
Mayence,  Maugis  d'Aigremont,  and  Quatre  fils  Aimon. 

^  Li  sei  libri  de  li  Reali  di  Franza:  ne  liquali  se  contienenola  genera- 
tione  delli  Imperatori ;  Ee ;  Duclii ;  Principi ;  Baroni ;  Paladini  di 
Franza  :  con  li  gran  fatti  &  battaglie  da  loro  fatte.  Commenzando  da 
Constantino  Imperatore  fino  ad  Orlando  conte  Daglante.  Dunlop  says, 
so  little  of  this  work,  notwithstanding  its  importance  in  connection  with 
the  Carlovingian  romances,  that  one  is  led  to  think  he  may  not  have  seen 
the  work  itself,  which,  despite  numerous  impressions,  is  rare  in  the  old 
editions,  while  the  later  North-Italian  popular  reprints  are  often  very 
incomplete,  and  sometimes  want  the  sixth  book. — Wiener  Jahrb.,  xxxi. 
p.  105. 


CH.  IV.]  REALI    DI    FRANCIA.  298 

The  metrical  romances  above  mentioned  ^  may  be  con- 

^  The  popular  ballads,  or  cantilones,  as  French  writers  have  styled 
them,  where  the  exploits  of  the  jjreat  Charles  were  sung  and  handed 
down  from  his  own  to  later  days,  formed  at  once  the  basis  of  the  longer 
chatisuns  de  gcste  and  of  such  spurious  relations  as  Turpin's  Chronicle. 
Wholly  distinct  from  sober  history,  as  recorded  in  works  such  as  Egin- 
hart's  '•  Memoir  of  Charlemagne,"  written  in  Latin,  and  therefore  acces- 
sible to  but  few,  they  were  composed  in  the  language  of  the  people, 
uncommitted  to  writing,  and  consequently  subject  to  all  the  diversify, 
ing  and  differentiating  influences  of  oral  tradition.  The  French,  the 
Spaniards,  and  the  Gascons  have  all  their  different  versions  of  the 
defeat  of  Koncesvalles.  Turpin's  Chronicle,  far  from  being  the  founda- 
tion of  this  early  poetical  fund  (see  supra,  pp.  287,  etc.),  is  composed 
either  from  the  Chanson  de  Koland,  as  it  is  now  known,  or  upon  the 
previously  existing  materials  which  supplied  the  foundation  of  that  poem, 
now  claimed  by  the  French  as  a  national  epic.  In  the  absence  of  written 
monuments  recent  French  criticism,  taking  into  consideration  Charle- 
magne's Frankish  nationality,  has  manifested  a  strong  tendency  to  re- 
gard this  earlier  ballad  literature  as  Teutonic  in  language,  though  a 
reaction  against  this  theory  may  be  surely  looked  for  soon.  The  ballads 
no  doubt  celebrated  single  episodes  and  incidents,  and  must  have  been 
sung  in  both  Romance  and  Teutonic  dialects.  There  is,  indeed,  a  record 
of  how  one  such  metrical  tale  (see  Gautier,  Roland,  Introd.,  p.  xvii.) 
was  handed  down  and  sung  in  chorus  by  women.  They  may,  perhaps, 
be  looked  on  as  analogous  with  the  numerous  early  ballads  of  Spain,  or 
with  those  which  were  incorporated  into  the  Saxon  Chronicle.  In  the 
eleventh  century  we  find  i\xe  jongleurs,  or  wandering  minstrels,  forming 
a  class  in  France,  whose  profession  it  was  to  amuse  by  chanting  or 
reciting  such  ballads.  They  had  thus  the  opportunity  and  materials 
for  the  combination  of  these  into  the  longer  chaiisons  de  geste,  a  work 
which  was  also  done  by  the  trouveurs,  or  professional  poets,  who  com- 
mitted their  woi'ks  to  writing,  which  have  thus  remained  to  us,  while  the 
earlier  songs,  the  original  scattered  components,  have  been  lost.  These 
longer  works  in  the  fifteenth  centuiy  were  reproduced  in  prose,  a  form 
in  which  they  have  been  fixed  by  the  invention  of  printing,  while  it  has 
been  left  for  the  erudite  of  the  present  century  to  re-awaken  national 
interest  in  the  poems  which  had  remained  so  long  the  manuscript  trea- 
sures of  libraries  and  the  learned.  The  prose  form  of  these  romances  is 
that  from  Avhich  they  were  conveyed  to  England,  as  for  instance  in  the 
translations  of  Lord  Berners  (Huon),  and  that  (of  Aymon)  ascribed  to 
Caxton  and  others.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  prose  romances  were 
so  degenerate  in  comparison  with  the  poems  on  which  they  were  founded. 
Charlemagne,  the  hero  of  the  earlier  works,  often  becomes  a  mere  dotard 
in  the  later  compositions.  It  is  unnecessary  to  dwell  longer  here  on  this 
subject,  whereon  so  much  has  recently  been  written.  Good  articles  in 
several  leading  English  magazines  upon  the  Song  of  Roland  have  been, 
during  the  last  few  years,  particularly  numerous.  Information  of  a 
more  detailed  character  will  be  found  in  the  introduction  to  M.  Leon 
Gautier's  edition  of  Roland,  in  M.  Gaston  Paris'  dissertation  on  Turpin, 


294  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

sidered  as  sources  wliicli  supplied  with  materials  the  early 
wi'iters  of  the  prose  romances  relating  to  Charlemagne ; 
but  though  they  may  have  suggested  his  expedition  to 
Spain  and  the  Holy  Land,  with  several  other  circum- 
stances, the  authors  of  the  prose  romances  of  Charlemagne 
seem  to  have  written  more  from  fancy,  and  less  slavishly 
to  have  followed  the  metrical  tales  by  which  they  were 
preceded,  than  the  compilers  of  the  fables  concerning 
Arthur.  They  added  incidents  which  were  the  creatures 
of  their  own  imagination,  and  embellished  their  dreams 
with  the  speciosa  miracula,  derived  from  the  fables  of 
Arabia,  or  from  northern  and  classical  mythology.  Heroes 
of  romance,  besides,  are  frequently  decorated  with  the 
attributes  belonging  to  their  predecessors  or  descendants. 
Many  of  the  events  related  in  the  romantic  story  of 
Charlemagne  are  historically  true  with  regard  to  Charles 
Martel.  When  the  fame  of  the  latter  was  eclipsed  by  the 
renown  of  Charlemagne,  the  songs  of  the  minstrels  and 
legends  of  the  monks  transferred  the  exploits  of  the 
Armorican  chief  to  his  more  illustrious  descendant. 

Thus,  from  the  ancient  chronicles  and  early  metrical 
romances ;  from  the  exploits  of  individual  heroes,  concen- 
trated in  one ;  from  the  embellishments  added  by  the 
imagination  of  the  author,  and  the  charms  of  romantic 
fiction,  sprung  those  formidable  compilations  we  are  about 
to  encounter,  and  which  form  the  second  division  of  Ro- 
mances of  Chivalry. 

It  is  still  more  difiicult  to  fix  the  dates  of  the  fabulous 
times  relating  to  Charlemagne  than  of  those  of  the  Round 
Table. 

HUON    DE    BOUEDEAUX,^ 

though  written  in  verse  as  far  back  as  the  thirteenth  cen- 

in  remarks  of  Lee,  Hausknecht,  and  others,  prefixed  to  the  Charlemagne 
romances  published  by  the  English  Text  Societ}'-,  and,  accessible  to 
everyone,  the  introduction  prefixed  to  O'Hagan's  English  verse  transla- 
tion of  the  Song  of  Roland,  Avhere  much  information  on  the  subject  will  be 
found  inavery  readable  form.  See  Romania,  Juill.-Oct.,  1885,  p.  398,  etc. 
'  Les  prouesses  et  faictz  merveilleux  du  noble  Huon  de  bordeaulx,  per 
de  France,  due  de  guyenne.  Paris,  Le  Noir,  1516.  The  original  chanson 
de geste  is  supposed  from  its  dialect,  etc.,  to  be  the  work  of  a  Irottvere  of 
Artois.     See  Guessard.     Les  Anciens  Poetes  Fran9ais. 


CH.  IV.]  HUON    DE   BOURDEAUX,  296 

tury,  is  not,  in  its  present  form,  supposed  to  be  long  ante- 
rior to  the  invention  of  printing,  as  there  are  no  manu- 
scripts of  it  extant.  It  is  said,  indeed,  at  the  end  of  the 
work,  that  it  was  written  by  desire  of  Charles  Seigneur  do 
Rochfort,  and  completed  on  the  29th  of  January,  1454 ; 
but  it  is  suspected  that  the  conclusion  is  of  a  date  some- 
what more  recent  than  the  first  part  of  the  romance.  The 
oldest  edition  is  one  in  folio,  without  date,  and  the  second 
is  in  quarto,  1516.^  There  are  also  different  impressions 
in  the  original  language  of  a  more  recent  period.  Huon 
of  Bordeaux,  indeed,  seems  to  have  been  a  favourite  ro- 
mance, not  only  among  the  French,  but  also  with  other 
nations.  The  Enghsh  translation,  executed  by  Lord  Ber- 
ners  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIIL,  has  gone  through  three 
editions,  and  it  has  lately  formed  the  subject  of  the  finest 
poem  in  the  German  language. 

As  the  incidents  in  the  Oberon  of  Wieland  are  nearly 
the  same  with  those  in  the  old  French  romance,  and  are 
universally  known  through  the  beautiful  translation  of 
Mr.  Sotheby,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  give  so  full  an 
analysis  of  the  work  as  it  would  be  otherwise  entitled  to, 
from  its  antiquity,  singularity,  and  beauty. 

Huon,  and  his  brother  Girard,  while  travelling  from 
their  own  domains  of  Guyenne  to  pay  homage  to  Charle- 
magne, are  treacherously  waylaid  by  Chariot,  the  em- 
peror's son,  who,  by  the  advice  of  evil  counsellors,  had 
formed  the  design  of  appropriating  their  possessions. 
Having  killed,  though  in  self-defence,  the  favourite  son  of 
his  sovereign,  Huon  could  not  obtain  pardon,  except  on 
the  whimsical  condition  that  he  should  proceed  to  the 
court  of  the  Saracen  Amiral,  or  Emir  Gaudisse,  who  ruled 
in  Bagdad — that  he  should  appear  while  this  potentate 
was  at  table — cut  off  the  head  of  the  bashaw  who  sat  at 
his  right  hand — kiss  his  daughter  three  times,  and  bring, 
as  a  tribute  to  Charlemagne,  a  lock  of  his  white  beard,  and 
four  of  his  most  efficient  grinders. 

Before  setting  out  on  this  excursion,  Huon  proceeds  to 
Eome,  where  he  is  advised  by  his  uncle,  the  x^ope,^  to  per- 

^  A  copy  in  the  British  Museum,  printed  by  Le  Noir.  bears  the  date 
"  mil.  V.  cens  et  treize." 

^  Huon  claims  relationship  also  with  the  Abbot  of  Clugny  (see  infr. 


296  .HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

form  a  pilgrimage  to  Palestine,  and  thence  depart  on  tlie 
remainder  of  his  expedition. 

Having  complied  with  this  injunction,  and  visited  the 
holy  sepulchre,  Huon  sets  out  for  the  coast  of  the  Red 
Sea,  but  wanders  in  a  forest,  where  he  supports  himself 
with  wild  fruits  and  honey  till  the  end  of  the  third  day, 
when  he  meets  an  old  man  of  gigantic  stature,  naked,  as 
far  as  clothes  were  concerned,  but  covered  with  long  hair. 
This  ancien  preudhomme,  as  he  is  called,  addresses  Huon 
in  a  dialect  of  the  French  language,  informs  him  that  his 
name  is  G-erasmes,  and  that  he  is  brother  to  the  mayor  of 
Bordeaux  ;  he  had  been  made  prisoner  in  a  battle  with 
the  Saracens,  but  having  escaped  from  slavery,  and  pos- 
sessing much  of  the  sgavoir  vivre,  he  had  judiciously 
chosen  to  reside  thirty  years  in  the  forest  in  his  present 
comfortable  predicament. 

Gerasmes  informs  Huon  that  from  this  wilderness  two 
roads  led  to  the  states  of  Gaudisse,  one  a  journey  of  forty 
days,  the  other  less  tedious,  but  extremely  dangerous,  as 
it  passed  through  the  forest  inhabited  by  Oberon,^  who 
metamorphosed  the  knights  who  were  bold  enough  to 
trespass,  into  hobgoblins,  and  animals  of  various  de- 
scriptions. 

p.  308),  with  Garyn  of  Saint  Omers,  with  Macaire,  and  many  others. 
The  absurd  length  to  which  the  author  "  pushes  the  endeavour,  that 
characterizes  the  later  poems  of  the  jo7igleurs,  to  bring  his  hero  into 
lineal  relationship  with  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men  with  whom  he 
comes  in  contact  on  his  journeyings,  is  another  testimony  to  the  lateness 
of  the  present  form  of  the  legend."     See  Huon,  p.  xxvii. 

'  Oberon,  as  the  son  of  Julius  Csesar  and  Morgan  the  Fay,  is  con- 
nected with  the  Arthurian  genealogy.  He  resembles  in  many  respects 
the  Elberich  in  the  story  of  Otnit  (see  infra,  p.  309,  etc.).  Grimm 
connects  the  name  with  Alp,  Alb,  =  elf,  and  he  may  be  regarded  as 
an  importation  from  the  Teutonic  Pantheon,  invested,  however,  with 
many  Keltic  and  Christian,  as  well  as  Asiatic  attributes.  M.  Longnon, 
in  the  Romania,  vol.  iii.,  has  carefully  worked  out  the  probable  connec- 
tion of  Huon  with  the  reign  of  Charles  the  Bald.  Whatever  the  historical 
element  in  the  romance,  Oberon  became  an  essential  part  in  it  as  early 
as  the  thirteenth  century.  Albericus  Trium  Fontium,  in  his  Chronicles, 
finished  about  1240,  says  that  in  the  year  810,  "  Hugo,  qui  Karolum, 
filium  Karoli,  casu  interfecit,  Almaricum  proditorem  in  duello  vicit,  exul 
de  Patria  ad  mandatum  regis  fugit,  Alberonem,  virum  mirahilem  et  for- 
tunatum  reperit,  et  caetera  sive  fabulosa  sive  historica  connexa."  See 
S.  L.  Lee,  Introduction  to  Huon,  Eng.  trans.,  1882. 


CH.  IV.]  HUON    DE    BOURDEAUX.  297 

Our  hero  liavino^,  of  course,  decided  in  favour  of  the 
most  perilous  road,  he  and  Gerasmes  penetrate  into  the 
thickest  part  of  the  forest  of  Oberon.  Having  followed  a 
path  through  the  wood  to  a  considerable  distance,  they  sit 
down  almost  exhausted  with  famine  under  an  oak.  At 
this  hour  Oberon,  who  was  apparently  a  child  of  four 
years  of  age,  of  resplendent  beauty,  and  clothed  in  a  robe 
sparkling  with  precious  stones,  was  parading  through  the 
forest.  The  dwarf  accosts  Huon  and  his  attendants,  but, 
enraged  at  their  silence,  raises  a  frightful  tempest.  Huon 
attempts  to  escape  through  the  thickets,  but  is  soon  over- 
taken by  Oberon,  who  allays  the  ^orm,  and  sounds  a 
magic  horn,  which  throws  the  attendants  of  Huon  into 
convulsions  of  merriment  and  dancing.  Oberon,  at  length 
having  ceased  to  blow  the  horn,  enters  into  conversation 
with  the  knight :  he  commences  an  account  of  his  own 
pedigree,  and  declares  that  he  is  the  son  of  Julius  Caesar 
and  a  fairy,  who  was  lady  of  the  Hidden  Isle,  now  Chifa- 
lonia,  in  which  she  had  received  the  Eoman  chief,  when 
on  his  voyage  to  Thessaly  to  attack  Pompey.  Many  rare 
endowments  had  been  bestowed  on  Oberon  at  his  birth, 
but  a  malevolent  fairy,  offended  at  not  being  invited  to 
attend  on  that  occasion,  had  decreed  that  his  stature 
should  not  increase  after  he  was  three  years  of  age.  Oberon 
farther  professed  the  utmost  esteem  for  Huon  and  his 
kindred,  as  a  proof  of  which  he  immediately  raised  up  a 
sumptuous  palace  for  his  reception,  where  he  was  enter- 
tained with  a  magnificent  banquet,  at  which  the  fairy  pre- 
sided in  great  state.  After  the  repast  he  presented  Huon 
with  a  goblet,  which,  in  the  hands  of  a  good  man,  sponta- 
neously filled  with  wine,  and  also  the  ivory  horn,  which,  if 
softly  sounded,  would  make  everyone  dance  who  was  not 
of  irreproachable  character,  and,  if  blown  with  violence, 
would  bring  Oberon  himself  to  his  assistance,  at  the  head 
of  100,000  ^soldiers. 

Fortified  with  these  gifts,  Huon  proceeds  on  his  jour- 
ney. After  travelling  a  few  days,  he  arrives  at  the  city  of 
Tourmont,  which  he  finds  is  governed  by  one  of  his  uncles, 
who.  in  his  youth,  had  gone  on  a  penitential  pilgrimage  to 
Jerusalem,  and  having  become  the  slave  of  the  Emir  Gau- 
disse,  had  been  deputed  to  govern  a  Saracen  city  as   a 


298  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

reward  for  renouncing  the  Christian  faith.  In  this  place 
Huon  attracts  immediate  notice  by  feasting  all  the  poor  of 
the  city  out  of  his  enchanted  cup.  This  procures  Huon  a 
visit  from  his  apostate  uncle,  to  whom  he  introduces  him- 
self as  a  nephew,  and  presents  him  with  the  goblet  filled 
with  wine ;  but  as  his  relative  was  a  person  of  abandoned 
character,  the  liquor  instantly  disappears.  The  renegado 
receives  his  nephew  with  apparent  kindness,  but  privately 
meditates  his  destruction.  He  accordingly  invites  him 
and  G-erasmes  to  a  sumptuous  banquet,  but  orders  one  of 
his  agas  to  place  guards  in  the  ante-chamber,  who  should 
be  ready  to  attack  the  Christians.  This  officer  was  of 
French  birth,  and  having  been  befriended  in  his  youth  by 
the  father  of  Huon,  he  fills  the  ante-room  with  Christian 
prisoners,  whom  he  had  set  at  liberty.  Accordingly  the 
traitor's  command  for  an  attack  on  Huon  is  the  signal  for 
a  general  massacre  of  the  pagans.  The  emir,  however, 
having  escaped,  assembles  his  forces  and  besieges  his 
nephew,  who  remained  in  the  palace.  Huon,  considering 
this  as  an  occasion  sufficiently  important  to  demand  the 
assistance  of  Oberon,  sounds  his  horn,  and  while  the  be- 
siegers are  in  consequence  dancing  with  prodigious  agility, 
the  Christians  are  reinforced  by  an  army  of  a  hundred 
thousand  men,  with  the  fairy  as  a  generalissimo.  The 
governor's  troops  being  immediately  cut  to  pieces,  and  he 
himself  slain,  Huon  prepares  for  his  departure.  Oberon 
gives  him  a  last  advice  concerning  his  journey,  warning 
him  particularly  not  to  approach  the  tower  possessed  by 
Angoulaffre,  a  cruel  giant,  who  could  only  be  vanquished 
by  a  person  defended  by  a  certain  hauberk,  which  the 
monster  unfortunately  kept  in  his  custody. 

To  this  very  tower  Huon  directs  his  course,  and,  entering 
it  while  the  giant  is  asleep,  he  arms  himself  with  the  fatal 
hauberk,  awakens  the  lord  of  the  manor,  and  kills  him  by 
the  assistance  of  a  lady,  who  was  confined  there,  and  who 
finds  a  kinsman  in  her  deliverer. 

Huon  follows  up  this  exploit  by  possessing  himself  of  a 
ring  which  had  been  sent  to  the  giant  as  a  tribute  from 
G-audisse.  Here  he  dismisses  Grerasmes  and  the  rest  of  his 
retinue,  and  having  crossed  an  arm  of  the  Red  Sea  on  the 
back  of  Malebron,  one  of  the  spirits  of  Oberon,  he  at  length 


CH.  IV.]  HUON    DE    BOURDEAUX.  299 

arrives  at  Babylou  (Bagdad)  in  Arabia,  where  that  emir 
held  his  court. 

Having  entered  the  pahice,  and  passed  the  saloon  where 
the  emir  was  banqueting  with  a  few  tributary  sultans, 
Huon  suddenly  interrupts  the  pleasures  of  the  entertain- 
ment by  removing  the  head  of  the  king  of  Hyreania,  who 
was  the  intended  husband  of  Esclarmonde,  the  daughter  of 
Gaudisse,  and  was  then  seated  at  the  right  hand  of  her 
father.  He  next  fulfils  the  second  part  of  his  mission,  on 
the  lips  of  the  princess,  and  concludes  with  promulgating 
his  designs  against  the  beard  and  grinders  of  the  emir. 
This  potentate  was  but  ill  prepared  with  an  answer  to  so 
novel  a  proposition,  and  a  mode  of  address  somewhat  un- 
usual at  his  board.  Huon,  however,  having  produced  the 
ring  of  Angoulaffre,  is  at  first  heard  with  tolerable  patience ; 
but  when  he  mentions  how  he  became  possessed  of  it,  the 
emir  orders  him  to  be  apprehended.  The  knight  at  first 
defends  himself  with  great  courage,  and  kills  many  of  the 
assailants,  but  is  at  last  overj^owered  by  numbers.  It  was 
now  in  vain  to  have  recourse  to  his  horn  ;  at  the  first  gate 
of  the  palace,  Huon,  in  order  to  gain  admittance,  had 
professed  himself  a  Mussulman,  a  falsehood  which  rendered 
the  horn  of  no  avail,  since  from  that  moment  his  character 
had  ceased  to  be  irreproachable.  He  is  loaded  with  chains 
and  precipitated  into  a  dungeon,  where  the  emir  intended 
he  should  be  tormented  with  the  punishments  of  hunger 
and  bondage,  as  preparatory  to  that  of  being  burned  alive, 
which  was  in  reserve.  Huon  receives  sustenance,  however, 
and  many  consolatory  visits,  from  the  beautiful  Esclar- 
monde, interviews  which  must  have  been  the  more  agree- 
able, as  he  could  not  be  conscious  of  any  claims  to  the 
favour  of  that  princess,  farther  than  having  cut  off  the  head 
of  her  lover,  insulted  her  father,  and  knocked  out  the  brains 
of  liis  body-guards. 

After  a  few  tender  conversations,  Esclarmonde  professes 
her  readiness  to  become  a  Christian.  In  many  of  the  ro- 
mances of  Charlemagne,  the  fable  hinges  on  the  assistance 
given  by  Saracen  princesses  to  Christian  knights,  and  the 
treasons  practised  for  their  lovers'  sake  against  their  fathers 
or  brothers.  It  must,  indeed,  be  confessed,  that  they  are  not 
of  the  sex  to  which  the  Mahometan  religion  is  most  seductive. 


300  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

When  this  good  understanding  had  been  estabHshed,  in 
order  to  secure  Huon  against  the  dangers  with  which  he 
was  threatened,  his  jailer,  who  had  been  bribed  by  Esclar- 
monde,  informs  the  emir  that  his  prisoner  had  died  two 
days  ago,  and  had  been  interred  in  the  dungeon. 

At  this  period,  Gerasmes,  whom  we  left  at  the  tower  of 
Angoulaffre,  arrives  at  Bagdad,  and,  along  with  Esclar- 
monde,  jDlots  the  deliverance  of  Huon.  The  princess  had 
now  become  so  furious  a  Christian,  that  she  declared  to 
Huon,  "  que  n'est  homme  que  plus  Je  hais  que  I'admiral 
G-audisse  mon  pere,  pource  qu'il  ne  croit  en  nostre  seigneur 
Jhesu  Christ."  Her  hatred,  indeed,  had  risen  to  so  high  a 
pitch,  that  she  insisted  on  her  father  being  murdered  in  his 
sleep. — "A  I'heure  de  minuit  Je  vous  meneray  en  la 
chambre  de  mon  pere ;  vous  le  trouverez  dormant,  puis  in- 
continent le  occirez :  Et  quant  est  a  moy,  Je  vueil  bien 
estre  la  jDremiere  qui  le  premier  coup  luy  baillera."  These 
plans  are  aided  by  the  invasion  of  Agrapard,  the  brother 
of  Angoulaffre,  who  enters  the  capital  at  the  head  of  a  for- 
midable army,  reproaches  the  emir  (most  unreasonably  one 
should  think)  for  not  having  avenged  the  death  of  that 
giant,  and  suggests  the  alternative  of  paying  a  triple  tribute 
or  denuding  himself  of  his  kingdom. 

The  emir  could  find  no  person  at  his  court  who  would 
encounter  this  champion.  After  cursing  his  gods  at  con- 
siderable length,  and  to  no  purjDose,  Esclarmonde  embraces 
this  favourable  opportunity  to  confess  that  Huon  is  still  in 
existence.  The  knight  is  accordingly  brought  forth  from 
his  dungeon,  and  the  emir  promises  that  if  he  vanquish 
Agrapard,  he  will  not  only  allow  his  beard  to  be  plucked, 
but  will  patiently  submit  to  a  partial  extraction  of  his 
grinders. 

Huon,  having  overcome  the  giant,  proposes  to  Gaudisse, 
that,  in  lieu  of  the  despoliation  of  his  beard  and  grinders, 
he  should  consent  to  be  baptized.  This  alteration  in  the 
agreement  not  being  relished  by  the  emir,  he  orders  Huon 
to  be  seized,  who,  trusting  that  his  long  sufferings  had  now 
appeased  Oberon,  sounds  the  horn  with  the  requisite  vehe- 
mence. The  surmise  of  the  knight  is  justified  by  the 
event :  the  fairy  king  appears  with  a  formidable  army,  and 
the  head  of  the  emir  is  struck  off  by  an  invisible  hand. 


CH.  IV.]  HUON    DE    BOUEDEAUX.  301 

The  beard  and  teeth  thus  become  an  easy  prey  to  the  con- 
queror, and  are  sewed  up  by  Oberon  in  the  side  of 
Gerasmes,  who  was  in  attendance.  Huon  loads  two  vessels 
with  the  treasures  of  the  emir,  and  sails  for  Italy  with 
Esclarmonde,  after  being  threatened  by  Oberon  with  the 
severest  punishments,  if  he  should  anticij^ate  the  delights 
of  matrimony  previous  to  the  fulfilment  of  its  graver 
ceremonies. 

In  most  romances,  when  a  superior  being  receives  a 
mortal  into  favour,  some  test  of  obedience  is  required. 
This  is  usually  violated,  and  the  consequent  misfortunes 
form  a  series  of  endless  incidents.  As  to  Huon,  he  seems 
never  to  have  received  any  injunction  from  Oberon,  without 
acting  in  direct  opposition  to  it.  Gerasmes,  foreseeing  the 
fate  of  the  lovers,  sets  sail  for  France  in  one  of  the  ships, 
carrying  in  his  side  the  precious  deposit  of  beard  and 
grinders.  Scarcely  had  he  left  the  vessel  in  which  Huon 
and  Esclarmonde  are  conveyed,  when  their  conduct  gives 
rise  to  a  tempest  ^  more  boisterous  than  the  description  of 
the  yoimgest  poet.  The  ship  goes  to  pieces  on  a  desert 
island,  where  the  lovers  wander  about  for  some  time,  and 
renew  the  offence  that  had  given  rise  to  the  late  hurricane ; 
but,  though  on  shore,  they  are  not  permitted  to  violate  the 
injunctions  of  Oberon  with  impunity.  A  band  of  corsairs 
arriving  on  the  island,  one  of  their  number,  who  had  been 
a  subject  of  the  emir  Gaudisse,  immediately  recognizes 
Esclarmonde.  These  pirates  leave  Huon  in  the  island, 
bound  to  a  tree,  and,  in  hopes  of  a  great  recompense,  sail 
with  the  princess  for  the  capital  of  Yvoirin,  emir  of  Mont- 
brant,  and  uncle  of  Esclarmonde.  Though  Huon  was  not 
in  the  vessel,  a  tempest  drives  it  to  the  coast  of  Anfalerne. 
The  captain  having  entered  one  of  the  ports  of  that  king- 

^  Cf.  the  foJlowing  passage  in  Hector  Boethius  : — "  Navicularius  tan- 
tam  tamque  insulitam  aeris  inclementiam,  eo  temix>ris  demiratus  (subei-at 
enim  solstitium  wstivum)  quum  id  non  sideri  sed  malorum  dajmonum, 
qui  hominibus  semper  sunt  infesti,  insidiis  magnis  ti-ibueret  clamoribus  : 
reddita  est  vox  ex  ima  navi  mulieris  se  misere  incusantis,  quod  incubo 
humana  sub  eflSgie,  qui  cum  per  multos  anteactos  annos  habuisset  con- 
suetudinem,  iam  tunc  fuisset  comraixta  et  ab  eo  subacta :  marl  ergo 
celerius  se  tradendam,  ut  ipsa  pereunte,  qure  tanti  mali  imminentis 
causam  praestitisset,"  etc. — Scotorum  Historiee,  lib.  viii.  p.  149,  ed. 
Paris,  1575. 


302  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

dom,  Galafre,  the  ruler  of  the  country,  comes  on  board, 
and  on  their  refusal  to  deliver  up  the  princess,  puts  the 
whole  crew  to  death,  with  the  exception  of  one  pirate,  who 
escapes  to  Montbrant.  Esclarmonde  is  conducted  to  the 
seraglio,  and  informed  that  she  must  prepare  to  accept  the 
hand  of  her  new  master ;  but  she  pretends  that  she  had 
lately  made  a  vow  of  chastity  for  two  years,  which  the 
emir  promises  to  respect. 

Oberon,  meanwhile,  being  touched  with  pity  for  the 
misfortunes  of  Huon,  permits  Malebron,  one  of  his  spirits, 
to  go  to  his  assistance.  This  emissary,  taking  Huon  on 
his  back,  lands  him  in  the  territory  of  King  Yvoirin.  As 
the  mercy  of  the  fairy  king  had  not  extended  so  far  as  to 
provide  the  delinquent  with  victuals  or  raiment,  he  wanders 
naked  through  the  country  in  quest  of  provisions.  In  a 
meadow  he  falls  in  with  an  old  man  eating  heartily,  who 
had  formerly  been  a  minstrel  at  the  court  of  Gaudisse,  and 
engages  Huon  to  carry  his  harp  and  his  wallet  for  food 
and  clothing.  On  the  same  evening  they  arrive  at  the  court 
of  Yvoirin.  The  minstrel  performs  in  such  a  manner  as 
to  obtain  rewards  from  all  the  courtiers :  his  attendant  also 
attracts  much  notice,  and  by  command  of  Yvoirin,  plays 
at  chess  with  his  daughter,  on  conditions  which  show  that 
this  emir  possessed  the  greatest  confidence  in  the  skill  of 
the  princess,  or  had  very  little  regard  to  the  honour  of  his 
family.  The  lady,  who  fell  in  love  with  Huon  during  the 
game,  purposely  allows  herself  to  be  checkmated.  But 
the  knight  being  resolved  to  preserve  his  fidelity  to  Esclar- 
monde, commutes  the  stake  he  had  gained  for  a  sum  of 
money, — "  Et  la  pucelle  sen  alia  moult  dolente  et  cour- 
roucee,  et  dist  en  elle  mesme ;  ha  maulvais  cueur,  failly 
de  Mahom,  soys  confondu,  car  si  J'eusse  seen  que  autre 
chose  n'eusses  voulu  faire,  Je  te  eusse  matte,  si  en  eusses 
eu  le  chief  tranche." 

Yvoirin,  long  before  this  time,  had  been  informed  of 
the  detention  of  his  niece  by  Galafre.  He  had  accordingly 
sent  to  demand  the  restitution  of  Esclarmonde,  which 
being  refused,  hostilities  had  commenced  between  these 
neighbouring  sultans.  The  day  after  the  arrival  of  Huon 
at  the  court  of  Yvoirin  had  been  fixed  for  an  invasion  of 
the  enemy's  territories.     Huon  having  learned  the  cause 


CH.  IV.]  HUON    DE    BOURDEAUX.  303 

of  the  war,  feels  every  motive  for  exertion :  he  procures 
some  rusty  arms,  moiuits  an  old  hackney,  and,  though 
thus  accoutred,  his  valour  chiefly  contributes  to  the  defeat 
of  G-alafre. 

A  new  resource,  however,  presents  itself  to  the  van- 
quished monarch.  It  will  be  recollected  that  Gerasmes 
had  left  Huon  at  a  most  momentous  crisis,  and  the  lover 
had  rendered  himself  culpable  so  soon  after  the  departure 
of  his  friend,  that  the  ship  in  which  Gerasmes  was  em- 
barked, had  experienced  the  full  force  of  the  tempest  which 
wrecked  the  vessel  of  Huon  and  Esclarmonde.  He  had,  in 
consequence,  been  driven  out  of  his  course,  and,  after  being 
long  tempest-tossed,  had  sought  shelter  in  the  port  of  An- 
faleme.  To  Gerasmes  the  king  communicates  the  situation 
of  his  affairs,  and  proposes  that  he  should  defy  a  cham- 
pion of  the  army  of  Yvoirin.  Gerasmes  having  consented 
to  this,  goes  out  from  Anfalerne  with  a  few  Christian 
friends,  and,  in  a  short  time,  finds  himseK  engaged  with 
Huon  of  Bordeaux.  Having  recognized  each  other  in  the 
course  of  the  combat,  Gerasmes,  with  great  presence  of 
mind,  proposes  that  they  should  unite  their  arms,  and  de- 
feat the  miscreants.  The  small  band  of  Christians  makes 
a  prodigious  slaughter  in  the  Saracen  army,  and  push- 
ing on  at  full  speed,  gets  possession  of  the  caj^ital  of 
Galafre. 

That  prince,  who  seems  to  have  been  no  less  remarkable 
for  rapidity  of  conception  than  the  Christians,  joins  the 
remains  of  his  forces  to  those  of  Yvoirin,  and  begs  him  to 
lead  them  on  against  Huon,  to  recover  his  capital.  Galafre 
is  as  unsuccessful  in  the  coalition  as  he  was  singly.  The 
allied  army  is  totally  repulsed  in  an  attack  upon  the  city, 
and  Esclarmonde  being  now  delivered  from  her  captivity 
in  the  seraglio,  the  Christians  possess  themselves  of  the 
treasure  of  Galafre,  and  embark  on  board  a  vessel  in 
which  the  mayor  of  Bordeaux,  with  more  good  fortune 
than  probability,  had  arrived  during  the  siege.  Huon  is 
landed  safe  in  Italy,  and  is  formally  imited  to  Esclarmonde 
at  E/Ome :  but,  on  his  road  to  the  court  of  Charlemagne, 
he  is  waylaid  by  his  brother  Girard,  who  had  possessed 
himself  of  his  dukedom,  and  was  ruling  over  it  with  un- 
exampled tyranny.   Tlie  usurper  pays  his  brother  an  appa- 


304  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.   IV. 

rently  kind  visit  at  the  abbey  of  St.  Maurice,  wbere  lie 
lodged  a  few  days  on  bis  journey  to  Paris.  Having  learned 
from  Huon  the  secret  of  the  treasure  contained  in  the  side 
of  Gerasmes,  he  attacks  the  bearer  on  his  way  from  the 
monastery,  opens  his  side,  takes  out  the  beard  and  grinders, 
and  sends  him  along  with  his  master  and  Esclarmonde  in 
chains  to  Bordeaux.  The  traitor  then  proceeds  to  Paris, 
informs  Charlemagne  that  his  brother  has  not  accom- 
plished the  object  of  his  mission,  and  asks  a  gift  of  his 
dukedom.  Charlemagne  repairs  to  Bordeaux,  where  Huon 
is  tried  by  the  peers,  and  after  much  deliberation  he  is 
finally  condemned  by  the  voice  of  the  emperor.  Huon  and 
Gerasmes  are  sentenced  to  be  drawn  and  quartered,  and 
Esclarmonde  to  be  led  to  the  stake.  Charlemagne  defers 
the  execution  till  midday,  that  while  seated  at  dinner  he 
may  feast  his  eyes  with  the  punishment  of  the  destroyer 
of  his  son.  The  spectacle  is  about  to  commence,  when 
suddenly  the  gates  of  the  hall  in  which  the  emperor  was 
seated  are  seized  by  a  formidable  army.  A  splendid  table 
is  prepared,  and  elevated  above  the  sovereign's.  Oberon 
enters  the  hall  to  the  sound  of  trumpets  and  cymbals. 
The  chains  drop  from  the  prisoners,  and  they  are  arrayed 
in  splendid  vestments.  Oberon  reproaches  Charlemagne 
with  injustice,  and  threatens  him  with  the  disclosure  of 
his  most  secret  crimes.  He  concludes  with  producing  the 
spoils  of  the  emir,  and  delivering  up  Girard  to  the  punish- 
ment that  had  been  destined  for  Huon.  The  fairy  then 
retires  with  the  same  solemnity  with  which  he  had  entered, 
after  inviting  Huon  and  Esclarmonde  to  pay  him  their 
respects  in  his  enchanted  dominions. 

The  story  of  Huon  of  Bordeaux  is  here  completely 
finished,  but  there  is  a  long  continuation,  which  seems  to 
be  by  a  different  hand,  and  is  apparently  of  a  much  later 
date  than  the  work  of  which  an  abstract  has  been  given. 
In  the  original  romance,  Huon  begins  his  exploits  by  slay- 
ing the  son  of  Charlemagne.  He  recommences  his  career 
in  this  second  production  by  cutting  off  the  head  of  the 
son  of  Thiery,  emperor  of  Germany.  That  monarch  in 
revenge  carries  war  into  the  states  of  Guienne.  Huon  de- 
fends himself  successfully  for  some  time,  but  at  length 
sets  out  for  the  east,  to  beg  assistance  from  the  brother  of 


CH.  IV.]  HirON    DE    BOURDEAUX.  305 

Esclarmonde,  to  whom,  though  he  had  slain  his  father  and 
seduced  his  sister,  he  thought  himself  entitled  to  apply. 

During  his  absence  Bourdeaux  is  taken,  Gerasmes  killed, 
and  Eschirmonde  conducted  captive  to  the  German  court, 
where  she  is  persecuted  with  love  propositions  by  the  em- 
j^eror. 

While  on  his  voyage  to  Asia,  Huon  experiences  a  tremen- 
dous storm.  When  the  tempest  has  abated,  the  vessel  is 
carried  away  by  a  rapid  and  irresistible  current,  which 
draws  it  into  a  dangerous  whirlpool.  Huon  perceiving  a 
man  swimming  in  the  midst  of  the  waters,  and  hearing  him 
utter  deep  lamentations,  orders  the  seamen  to  slack  sails  in 
order  to  gratify  his  curiosity.  The  swimmer  proclaims  him- 
self to  be  Judas  Iscariot,  and  declares  that  he  was  doomed 
to  be  tossed  in  this  gulf  to  all  eternity,  with  no  protection 
from  the  fury  of  the  elements  but  a  small  piece  of  cloth, 
which,  while  on  earth,  he  had  bestowed  in  charity.^  Judas 
also  recommends  to  Huon  to  use  every  exertion  to  get  out 
of  the  whirlpool.  At  his  suggestion,  all  the  sails  being 
set,  the  vessel  is  carried  before  a  favourable  wind,  and  the 
master  of  the  vessel  makes  for  a  distant  shore,  on  which  be 
descries  what  appears  to  him  a  small  house,  surrounded  by 
a  wood.  After  four  days'  sail  these  objects  prove  to  be  a 
palace  of  miraculous  magnitude  and  splendour,  and  the 
masts  of  innumerable  vessels  which  had  been  wrecked  on 
the  rock  of  adamant  on  which  this  magnificent  structure 
was  situated.'^  The  pilot  having  now  no  longer  power  over 
the  helm,  the  ship  strikes  on  the  rock,  to  which  it  was  irre- 

^  St.  Brandan  in  the  course  of  his  travels  likewise  comes  across  Judas 
Iscariot  suffering  tortures  upon  a  rock  in  the  open  sea.— Lieb.  Cf. 
also  the  expiation  in  the  Gregory  legend,  see  infra. 

-  The  fable  of  the  loadstone  island,  familiar  to  our  youth  in  the  story 
of  Sinbad  and  the  old  man  of  the  sea,  was  widely  diffused  both  in  the 
east  and  west,  but  more  especially  as  it  would  appear  in  China.  See 
Mandeville's  "Travels,"  ed.  1839,  pp.  318,  163,  and  ch.  15  and  27. 
Also  Felicis  Fabri  Evagatorium,  ii.  469,  published  by  the  Stuttgard 
Literarischer  Verein.  See  also  Von  Hagen  and  Biisching,  Deutsche 
Gedichte  des  Mittelaltcrs,  Bd.  i.,  note  49  to  Hcrzog  Ei-nst,  p.  xii.,  and 
the  Altdeutsches  Museum,  i.  p.  298,  etc.  Graesse,  p.  339,  remarks  upon 
the  above  works  as  well  as  upon  verse  4505,  etc.,  of  the  Gudrunlied, 
also  on  verse  1727  of  Gott  Amur  (der  Werden  Minne  lere,  published  by 
the  Stuttgard  Literarischer  Verein,  v.  263,  etc.).  Cf.  also  Konrad  von 
Wiirzburg's  Goldene  Schmiede,  verse  139,  etc. — Lieb. 
I.  X 


306  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

sistibly  attracted.     Huon  alone  gets  safe  on  shore,  and 
after  wandering  for  some  time  among  tremendous  pre- 
cipices and  sterile  valleys,  lie  climbs  to  the  enchanted  palace, 
which  is  beautifully  described.^    Here  he  enjoys  no  society 
for  a  long  while  but  that  of  a  hideous  serpent,  which  he 
has  the  pleasure  of  despatching ;  but  at  length,  in  a  remote 
apartment,  he  discovers  five  fairies  performing  the  office  of 
pastry  cooks,  who  explain  to  him  that  this  building  had 
been  constructed  by  the  Lady  of  the  Hidden  Isle  to  pro- 
tect her  lover  Julius  Caesar  from  the  fury  of  three  kings  of 
Egypt,  whose  vessels,  while  in  pursuit,  had  struck  on  the 
rock  of  adamant,  and  from  whose  treasures  the  palace  had 
been  so   splendidly  furnished.     After  a  long  stay  in  this 
island  Huon  is  at  length  carried  off  by  a  griffin,^  which  oc- 
casionally haunted  the  shore ;  and  at  the  end  of  a  long 
aerial  voyage,  is  set  down  on  the  top  of  a  high  mountain, 
which  seems  to  have  been  a  place  of  rendezvous  for  these 
animals.     Our  hero  kills  four  of  their  number,  which  was 
rather  an  ungrateful  return  for  the  safe  conduct  which  he 
had  received  from  their  fellow-monster.      Soon  after  his 
arrival  on  this  spot  he  discovers  the  Fountain  of  Youth,  in 
which  he  has  no  sooner  bathed  than  he  feels  recruited  from 
the  effects  of  his  late  perils  and  labours,  and  recovers  his 
pristine  vigour.     This  fiction  of  the  fountain  of  youth  has 
been  almost  as  universal  as  the  desire  of  health  and  lon- 
gevity.    There  is  a  fountain  of  this  nature  in  the  Greek 
romance  of  Ismene  and  Ismenias,^  in  the  German  Book 
of  Heroes,  and  the  French  Fabliau  of  Coquaigne, — 

La  Fontaine  de  Jovent 

Qui  fit  rajovenir  le  gent, 

»  See  Appendix,  No.  1 1 . 

2  See  De  Gubernatis,  Zoological  Mythology,  supra,  p.  120.  Cf.  Sin- 
bad's  second  voyage,  Duke  Ernest  of  Bavaria  (published  in  Simrocks, 
Volksbiicher,  Bd.  iii.),  verses  3359,  etc.  ,the  Somadheva  Stories, chap,  xii., 
the  Story  of  Rupinika,  and  chap,  xxvi.,  the  Story  of  Saktivega. — Lieb. 

^  F.  W.  Y.  Schmidt,  in  his  notes  to  his  selection  of  Tales  from  Stra- 
parola,  Berlin,  1817,  p.  276,  etc.,  gives  account  of  similar  rejuvenating 
springs  and  apples.  Cf.  also  the  Swedish  story  of  the  Land  of  Youth, 
in  Old  Norse  Fairy  Tales,  translated  by  Arlberg.  Delrius  (Disquisi- 
tionum  Magicarum,  lib.  sex,  lib.  ii.  p.  241,  ed.  1657)  mentions  two 
springs  credited  with  similar  virtues  in  the  New  World.  The  belief  in 
healing  waters  is  common  among  the  Slavonians. 


CH.  IV.]  HUON    DE    BOURDEAUX.  307 

By  the  margin  of  this  fountain,  in  which  Huon  had  im- 
mersed himself,  grew  a  tree,  of  which  the  apples  partook 
of  the  resuscitating  properties  of  the  waters  by  which  its 
roots  were  nourished.  Huon  is  permitted  by  a  celestial 
voice  to  gather  three  of  these  apples,  and  is  also  directed  to 
the  path  by  which  he  is  to  proceed.  Having  therefore  de- 
scended the  hill,  he  reaches  the  banks  of  a  river,  and  em- 
barks in  a  pinnace  decked  with  gold  and  precious  stones. 
This  boat  is  carried  down  a  stream  with  surprising  velocity, 
and  enters  a  subterraneous  canal  ^  lighted  by  the  radiance 
of  gems,'  which  formed  the  channel  of  the  water,  and  of 
which  Huon  gathers  a  handful.  The  roar  of  the  waves  and 
tempest  above  is  distinctly  heard,  but  after  a  few  days' 
voyage  the  bark  emerges  into  a  tranquil  sea,  which  he  re- 
cognizes to  be  the  Persian  Gulf.  He  lands  in  safety  at  the 
port  of  Tauris,  where  a  skilful  lapidary  having  inspected 
the  precious  stones  which  he  had  picked  up  during  his  sub- 
terraneous voyage,  declares  that  one  preserved  from  fire 
and  poison,  a  second  cured  all  diseases,  a  third  rej^ressed 
hunger  and  thirst,  and  a  fourth  rendered  the  wearer  in- 
visible. The  possession  of  these  very  valuable  articles  pro- 
cures for  Huon  a  favourable  reception  from  the  old  sultan 
of  that  district,  on  whom  our  hero  bestows  one  of  the 
apples  of  youth,  which  he  had  no  sooner  tasted  than  he  re- 
ceives the  strength  and  appearance  of  a  man  of  thirty. 
From  motives  of  gratitude  the  sultan  permits  himseK  to 
be  baptized,  and  places  a  fleet  and  army  under  the  com- 
mand of  Huon,  with  which  he  now  proceeds  to  the  assis- 
tance of  Esclarmonde.  On  his  way  he  lands  at  the  desert 
island  of  Abillant  in  quest  of  adventures,  and  his  fleet 
being  instantly  dispersed  by  a  storm,  he  is  forced  to  remain. 
After  wandering  about  for  some  time  he  ascends  a  moun- 
tain, whose  summit  formed  a  plain,  round  which  a  cask  was 
roUing  with  wonderful  noise  and  velocity.  Huon  arrests 
its  progress  with  a  hammer,  and  the  inhabitant  proclaims 
himself  to  be  Cain,  adding,  that  the  cask  is  full  of  seq^ents 

'  Cf.  the  subterraneous  voyages  in  Sinbad's  sixth  voyage,  in  the 
Arabian  Nights,  Herzog  Ernst,  verse  3554,  etc.,  Vohaire's  '^  Candide," 
eh.  17,  etc.,  Tasso's  '' Gerusalerame  Liberata,"  xiv.  32. — Lieb.  See 
infra,  p.  310. 

-  Luminous  stones.     See  index. 


308  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

and  sliarp  spikes,  and  that  lie  is  doomed  to  roll  in  it  till 
the  day  of  judgment.  The  knight  accordingly  refuses  to 
interfere  in  his  punishment,  and  leaves  him  to  prosecute 
his  career  in  this  uncomfortable  conveyance. 

In  the  course  of  his  conversation  with  Cain,  Huon  was 
informed  that  a  demon,  who  had  been  the  contractor  for 
this  machine,  was  waiting  for  the  fratricide  in  a  boat  near 
the  shore.  Availing  himself  of  this  hint  he  proceeds  to 
the  beach,  and  the  evil  spirit  mistaking  him  for  Cam,  whom 
he  personates,  receives  him  into  the  bark  and  lands  him  on 
the  opposite  coast, — a  contrivance  which  shows  that  the 
knight  had  not  altogether  forgotten  the  practices  by  which, 
in  his  youth,  he  gained  admission  to  the  hall  of  the  emir  of 
Babylon,  and  by  which  he  first  forfeited  the  favour  of 
Oberon.  In  the  present  instance,  however,  his  departure 
from  truth  is  not  followed  by  any  punishment  or  disaster : 
on  the  contrary,  he  rejoins  his  fleet  on  the  coast  to  which 
he  had  been  transported  by  the  fiend,  and  thence  sets  sail 
for  France. 

Huon  does  not  seem  to  have  been  in  any  great  haste  to 
bring  assistance  to  Esclarmonde.  He  visits  Jerusalem  on 
his  way,  and  enters  most  gratuitously  into  a  war  with  the 
sultan  of  Egypt. 

On  arriving  at  Marseilles  he  dismisses  the  Asiatic  fleet, 
and  proceeds  to  pay  a  visit  to  his  uncle,  the  abbot  of 
Clugny,  whom  he  presents  with  one  of  the  apples  of  youth. 
In  the  habit  of  a  pilgrim  he  next  comes  to  the  court  of 
Thierry,  emperor  of  Grermany,  who  at  length  agrees  to  re- 
store his  wife,  and  receives  the  third  apple  as  his  reward. 
Huon  and  Esclarmonde  pay  a  short  visit  to  their  dominions, 
and  then  set  out,  according  to  invitation,  for  the  enchanted 
forest  of  Oberon,  who  installs  his  favourite  knight  in  the 
empire  of  Faery,  and  expires  shortly  after.  The  remainder 
of  the  romance,  or  rather  fairy  tale,  contains  an  account  of 
the  reign  of  Huon,  and  his  disputes  with  Arthur  (who  had 
hoped  for  the  appointment)  as  to  the  sovereignty  of  Fairy- 
land; and  also  the  adventm-es  of  the  Duchess  Clairette, 
the  daughter  of  Huon  and  Esclarmonde,  from  whom  was 
descended  the  illustrious  family  of  Capet. ^ 

^  Various  contimiations  and  extensions  of  Huon  exist,  which  have  been 
published  by  Professor  Graf  from  a  fourteenth  century  MS.  at  Turin  (I 


CH.  IV.]  HUON    DE    BOURDEAUX.  309 

There  are  few  romances  of  chivalry  which  possess  more 
beauty  and  interest  than  Huon  of  Bourdeaiix ; — the  story, 
liowever,  is  too  long  protracted,  and  the  first  part  seems  to 
have  exhausted  the  author's  stores  of  imagination.  Huon 
is  a  more  interesting  character  than  most  of  the  knights  of 
Charlemagne.  Even  his  weakness  and  disobedience  of 
Oberon  arise  from  excess  of  love  or  the  ardour  of  military 
enterprise;  and  our  prepossession  in  his  favour  is  much 
enhanced  by  a  mildness  of  nature  and  tenderness  of  heart, 
superior  to  that  of  other  heroes  of  chivalry.  The  subordi- 
nate characters  in  the  work  are  also  happily  drawn :  no- 
thing can  be  better  represented  than  the  honest  fidelity  and 
zeal  of  Gerasmes,  the  struggles  in  the  breast  of  the  mother 
of  Huon  between  maternal  tenderness  and  devoted  loyalty 
to  Charlemagne,  and  the  mixed  character  of  that  monarch, 
in  which  equity  and  moderation  predominate,  but  are  ever 
warped  by  an  excess  of  blind  paternal  affection. 

The  early  part  of  the  romance  of  Huon  bears  a  striking 
resemblance  to  the  adventures  of  Otnit,  king  of  Lombardy,^ 

complimenti  della  Chanson  d'Huon,  etc.,  Halle,  1878).  Numbers  of 
!MSS.  of  the  metrical  romance  in  various  forms  and  languages  remain  to 
prove  its  extensive  popularity,  while  ver^-  numerous  editions  in  the  six- 
teenth and  seventeenth  centuries  attest  the  wide  dissemination  of  the 
prose  work  founded  on  them.  It  was  dramatized  for  representation  by 
tlie  Fraternity  of  the  Passion  and  Resurrection  during  the  Christmas-tide 
of  1557,  but  was  permitted  only  on  condition  that  it  should  be  performed 
when  no  church  services  were  taking  place,  and  "  without  scandal." 
The  strictly  religious  character  of  the  French  drama  of  the  period  made 
the  work,  no  doubt,  appear  in  the  light  of  a  profane  innovation.  An 
English  translation  by  Lord  Berners,  who  follows  the  French  text  of 
1530  with  great  fidelity,  was  published  probably  between  1530  and  1540. 
The  only  copy  known  belongs  to  Lord  Crawford  and  Balcarres.  At 
least  two  other  editions  appear  to  have  been  published.  The  text  of 
Lord  Berners  has  been  reprinted  for  the  Early  English  Text  Society, 
with  an  admirable  notice  of  the  work  prefixed,  by  JS.  L.  Lee,  to  which 
the  reader  is  referred,  and  to  which  I  am  mainly  indebted  for  the  fore- 
going remarks.  Further  information  will  be  found  in  Guessard's  "'  Les 
Anciens  Poetes  Francais,"  pt.  5  ;  Leon  Gautier's  "  Epopees  Fran- 
caises ; "  Gaston  Paris,  in  the  Revue  Germaniciue,  xvi.  p.  350-90.  and 
notices  in  vols,  iii.,  vii.,  and  viii.  of  the  Romania.  Mr.  Lee  (in  his  intro- 
duction to  Huon,  pp.  xlvii.-liii.),  gives  an  interesting  though  brief  account 
of  "Oberon  in  English  Literature." 

'  See  Romania,  iii.  p.  494.  A.  Kirpichnikof,  Opyt  cravnitelnavo 
izouchenia  zapadnavo  i  rousskavo  eposa.  Poemy  Lombardskavo  tsikla. 
Moscow,  1873. 


310  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

related  near  the  commencement  of  that  celebrated  produc- 
tion, the  Teutonic  metrical  romance  of  The  Book  of  Heroes 
(ascribed  to  Wolfram  von  Eschenbach  and  Heinrich  von 
Ofterdingen),  written  early  in  the  thirteenth  century,  and 
of  which  an  entertaining  analysis  has  been  given  in  the 
ninstrations  of  Northern  Antiquities.^  Otnit,  we  are  told, 
before  setting  out  for  Syria  in  order  to  gain  the  hand  of  its 
princess,  met  the  dwarf  Elberich,  who  was  clothed  in  ar- 
mour dighted  with  gold  and  diamonds.  This  dwarf  pre- 
sented Otnit  with  various  gifts  which  possessed  a  magic 
power,  and  which  prove  of  infinite  service  on  his  arrival  in 
Syria.  Elberich  afterwards  gave  him  personal  assistance 
in  his  contest  with  the  heathen  father  of  his  destined  mis- 
tress ;  and  on  one  occasion,  having  rendered  himself  in- 
visible, he  tore  a  handful  of  hair  from  the  beard  of  the 
pagan,  and  pulled  out  several  of  the  teeth  of  his  queen. 
The  princess  becomes  enamoured  of  the  knight,  and  is  at 
last  willingly  delivered  into  his  hands  by  the  dwarf,  who 
warns  him,  however,  not  to  be  guilty  of  any  amorous  indis- 
cretions till  his  bride  should  be  baptized.^ 

Some  analogy  also  subsists  between  the  second  part  of 
Huon  and  the  second  and  sixth  voyages  of  Sindbad  ;  but 
its  resemblance  to  the  voyages  of  Aboulfaouaris,  in  the 
Persian  Tales,  is  much  more  striking.  Judas  swimming  in 
the  gulf  corresponds  with  the  story  of  the  man  whom  the 
Persian  adventurer  fished  up  on  his  first  voyage,  and  who 
had  whirled  about  for  three  years,  as  a  penance,  in  the  sea 
near  Java.  This  renowned  mariner  also  escapes  from  an 
island,  on  which  he  had  been  wi'ecked,  by  a  subterraneous 
passage  which  the  sea  had  formed  through  one  of  its 
mountains ;  and  by  the  assistance  of  a  neighbouring  king 
he  is  enabled  to  succour  his  wife,  of  whose  danger  he  had 
been  apprised  in  a  dream.  The  story  of  Cain  and  the  at- 
tendant fiend  in  Huon  is  the  model  or  imitation  of  the 
Brazen  Island,  to  which  the  ship  of  Aboulfaouaris  is  car- 
ried by  an  irresistible  current,  and  in  which  he  beholds  the 

^  Illustrations  of  Northern  Antiquities,  from  the  earlier  Teutonic  and 
Scandinavian  romances,  being  an  Abstract  of  the  Book  of  Heroes,  and 
Nibelungen  Lay,  etc.  Edinburgh,  1814,  4to.  It  has  been  suggested  that 
Otnit  is  a  corrupted  form  of  Odenatus,  assassinated  at  Emesa  in  267. 

2  See  Keightly's  "  Fairy  Mythology, '  p.  206. 


CH.  IV.]  GUERIN    DE    MONTQLAVE.  311 

punishment  of  the  Afrite  or  Rebel  Genius.  Indeed  the 
works  of  eastern  fable  are  full  of  traditions  concerning  the 
punishments  of  Cain,  one  of  which,  it  is  somewhere  said, 
was,  that  he  could  not  be  killed  by  spikes  piercing  his 
body.  The  author  of  the  Arabic  Catena,  a  collection  of 
oriental  commentaries  on  scripture,  makes  him  proof  against 
all  the  elements ;  a  sword  could  not  hurt  him,  fire  could 
not  burn,  water  could  not  drown,  nor  lightning  strike  him 
(c.  8),  a  curse  resembling  that  which  was  imposed  by 
Kehama. 

The  next  romance  relating  to  knights,  contemporary  with 
Charlemagne,  is  that  of 

GUERIN    DE    MONTGLAVE.^ 

"  A  Tissue  de  I'yver  que  le  joly  temps  d'este  commence,  et 
qu'on  voit  les  arbres  florir  et  leurs  fleurs  espanyr,  les  oysil- 
lons  chanter  en  toute  joye  et  doulceur  tant  que  leurs  tons 
et  doulx  chants  retentissent  si  melodieusement  que  toute 
joye  et  lyesse  est  de  les  escouter  et  ouyr ;  tant  que  cueurs 
tristes  pensifs  et  dolens  s'en  esjouissent  et  esmeuvent  a  de- 
laisser  dueil  et  toute  tristesse,  et  se  perforcent  de  valoir 
mieux — en  celuy  temps  estoit  a  Montglave  le  noble  Due 
Guerin  qui  tant  fut  en  son  temps  preux  et  vaillant  cheva- 
lier." This  Guerin,  who  was  brother  of  the  duke  of 
Aquitaine,  and  ruled  in  Montglave  (Lyons),  a  city  he  had 
acquired  by  his  own  prowess,  had  four  sons.  After  re- 
proaching them  at  a  high  festival  for  indolence  and 
gluttony,  he  dismisses  them  from  his  palace  in  order  to 
push  their  fortunes  in  the  world.  Arnaud,  the  eldest,  is 
sent  to  his  uncle  Girard,  duke  of  Aquitaine ;  Millon,  the 
second,  proceeds  to  Pavia,  and  Girard  and  Regnier  to  the 
court  of  Charlemagne.  The  romance  contains  the  separate 
adventures  of  the  four  knights,  of  which  those  of  Arnaud 
alone  are  in  any  degree  interesting. 

'  Histoire  du  tres  preux  et  vaillant  Guerin  de  Montglave,  lequel  fit 
en  son  temps  plusieurs  nobles  et  illustres  faits  en  armes  ;  et  aussi  parle 
dcs  terribles  &  merueilleux  faictz  de  Robastre  &  Ferdigon  pour  secourir 
le  diet  Guerin  et  ses  enfans. — A.  Lotrian,  Paris,  no  date,  4to.  For 
critical  account,  full  bibliography,  analysis,  and  genealogical  table  of  this 
romance,  sec  Gautier's  "  Epopees  Fran9aises,"  2nd  ed.,  Paris,  1883,  vol.  ii. 
p.  126,  etc.     The  earliest  edition  is  of  1518. 


312  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV, 

Arnaud  on  liis  arrival  at  tlie  capital  of  Aquitaine  finds 
tliat  Girard  was  dead,  and  tliat  Hunault,  liis  natural 
brother,  had  seized  on  the  dukedom ;  but,  though  attended 
only  by  a  single  squire,  so  completely  was  the  usurper 
detested,  that  the  principal  inhabitants  immediately  invest 
Arnaud  with  the  sovereignty.  Hunault,  unable  openly  to 
withstand  this  general  disaffection,  has  recourse  to  strata- 
gem. He  pretends  that  he  had  only  meant  to  preserve 
the  dukedom  for  his  brother,  gradually  insinuates  himself 
into  the  confidence  of  Arnaud,  and  becomes  his  chief 
adviser.  In  a  short  while  he  proposes  to  him  an  union 
with  the  Saracen  princess  Fregonda,  the  daughter  of  a 
sultan,  called  Florant,  who  reigned  in  Lombardy  ;  and 
farther,  persuades  him  to  pay  a  visit  to  the  court  of  that 
monarch.  Hoping  to  obtain  a  beautiful  princess,  and 
convert  an  infidel,  Arnaud  sets  out  for  Lombardy,  accom- 
panied by  Hunault,  who  had  previously  informed  the  sultan 
that  his  brother  was  coming  to  solicit  his  daughter  in 
marriage,  and  to  abjure  the  Christian  religion.  The 
sultan  and  Arnaud  are  thus  put  at  cross  purposes.  The 
former  leaves  the  work  of  conversion  to  his  daughter,  but 
this  princess  had  no  sooner  begun  to  love  Arnaud,  than 
she  found  that  she  could  not  endure  Mahomet.  Hunault 
is  informed  of  the  sentiments  of  the  princess  by  his  brother 
Arnaud,  and  immediately  acquaints  the  sultan.  In  com- 
municating this  intelligence,  he  proposes  that  Arnaud 
should  be  confined  in  a  dungeon,  and  at  the  same  time 
offers  on  his  own  part  to  assume  the  turban,  should 
Florant  agree  to  assist  him  in  recovering  possession  of 
Aquitaine.  These  proposals  being  accepted,  Arnaud  is 
thrown  into  confinement,  and  Hunault  sets  out  by  a 
retired  road  for  the  duchy.  On  his  way  he  is  suddenly 
seized  with  remorse  for  his  apostacy  and  treason.  Hearing 
a  clock  strike  while  in  the  midst  of  a  forest,  he  turns 
towards  the  place  whence  the  sound  j^roceeded,  and  arrives 
at  the  gate  of  a  hermitage,  which  is  opened  by  a  giant  of 
horrible  aspect.  This  singular  recluse  was  Robastre,  who 
had  been  the  companion  in  arms  of  Guerin  of  Moutglave, 
and  had  retired  to  this  forest  to  perform  penance.  Hunault 
insists  on  confessing  his  sins,  and  the  catalogue  being 
finished,  Robastre  immediately  knocks  out  his  brains.    The 


CH.  IV.]  GUEEIN    DE    MONTGLAVE.  313 

ground  of  this  commentary  on  the  confession  is,  that  he 
would  thus  die  penitent ;  l)ut  that  if  he  lived,  he  would 
infallibly  relapse  into  iniquity ;  a  train  of  reasoning 
certainly  more  gigantic  than  theological. 

Kohastre  next  turns  his  attention  to  the  best  means  of 
delivering  Arnaud  from  prison.  He  first  goes  to  consult 
with  Perdigon,  who  had  been  formerly  a  companion  of 
Guerin,  and  was  once  tolerably  versed  in  the  black  art, 
but  had  for  some  time  renounced  all  his  evil  practices,  and 
retired  to  a  cell  in  the  same  forest  with  Robastre.  This 
enchanter  is  at  first  scrupulous  about  renewing  his  inter- 
course with  the  devil,  but  at  length  satisfies  his  conscience 
on  the  score  of  good  intentions. 

The  giant  arms  himself  with  an  old  cuirass,  which  was 
bui'ied  below  his  hermitage,  and  throwing  over  it  a  robe, 
gains  admittance  to  the  court  of  the  sultan  Florant  in  the 
character  of  a  mendicant  dervis.  He  soon  obtains  a 
private  interview  with  the  princess,  and  introduces  himself 
as  a  Christian,  and  the  friend  of  Arnaud.  In  return  he  is 
informed  by  her  that  she  pays  frequent  visits  in  secret  to 
Arnaud,  to  whom  she  promises  to  procure  him  access. 
With  this  view  she  acquaints  her  father  that  Eobastre  is 
the  most  learned  Mollah  she  had  ever  conversed  with,  and 
that  if  admitted  to  the  j^risoner  he  could  not  fail  to  con- 
vert him.  Eobastre  is  thus  introduced  into  the  dungeon, 
and  privately  concerts  with  Arnaud  the  means  of  escape. 
In  the  course  of  the  ensuing  night  the  princess  arrives 
with  provisions,  with  which  the  Mahometan  ladies  in 
romance  are  always  careful  abundantly  to  supply  their 
lovers.  Eobastre  taking  a  goblet  of  water,  baj^tizes  the 
princess,  and  unites  her  to  Arnaud.  Having  then  knocked 
out  the  brains  of  the  jailer,  he  breaks  open  the  trap-door 
of  the  prison,  and  thus  gets  possession  of  the  tower,  of 
which  the  dungeon  formed  the  foundation. 

Arnaud  escapes  to  Aquitaine,  that  he  may  assert  his 
sovereignty,  and  afterwards  return  to  the  assistance  of 
Eobastre  and  the  princess,  who  remain  together  in  the 
tower.  In  that  hold  they  are  besieged  by  the  sultan  and 
his  forces,  but  Eobastre  makes  different  sorties,  in  which 
he  is  always  successful,  being  aided  by  the  enchantments 
of  his  friend  Perdigon,  who  at  one  time  pelts  the  Saracens 


314  ^  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

with  incessant  hail,  and  at  others  cuts  them  up  by  means 
of  fantastic  knights  in  black  armour.  Robastre,  availing 
himself  of  the  confusion  into  which  the  Saracens  were 
thrown  by  one  of  these  attacks,  escapes  with  the  princess, 
and  arrives  safe  in  Aquitaine.  Here  they  have  the  morti- 
fication to  find  that  Arnaud  had  been  imprisoned  by  the 
maternal  uncles  of  Hunault.  They  are  vanquished,  how- 
ever, in  single  combat  by  Robastre.  Arnaud  is  then 
restored  to  his  dukedom,  and  soon  after  succeeds  to  the 
Lombard  principality,  by  the  conversion  and  abdication  of 
his  father-in-law.  His  subjects  also  become  Christians, 
for  in  those  days  they  implicitly  conformed  to  the  religion 
of  their  prince,  instead  of  forcing  him  to  adopt  the  faith 
of  his  people. 

During  these  interesting  transactions,  Millon,  the  second 
son  of  Guerin  of  Montglave,  had  married  his  cousin,  the 
daughter  and  heiress  of  the  duke  of  Pavia.  Eegnier  had 
been  united  to  the  duchess  of  G-enoa,  after  defeating  a 
ponderous  giant,  who  was  an  unwelcome  suitor,  and  Girard 
had  espoused  the  countess  of  Thoulouse  by  the  interest  of 
Charlemagne,  who  conceived  himself  obliged  to  provide  for 
the  children  of  Guerin  of  Montglave,  as  he  had,  on  one 
occasion,  lost  his  whole  kingdom  to  him  at  a  game  of 
chess. 

To  these  provisions,  however,  there  seems  to  have  been 
no  end,  for  Aimery,  Arnaud' s  son,  having  grown  up,  came 
to  demand  a  settlement  on  the  plea  of  the  game  at  chess. 
During  one  of  his  audiences,  at  which  the  queen  was  pre- 
sent, he  seizes  her  majesty  by  the  foot  and  overthrows  her. 
Charlemagne  thinks  it  necessary  to  avenge  this  insult  by 
besieging  Viennes,  the  capital  of  Girard's  territories,  who 
is  assisted  in  his  defence  by  his  three  brothers  and  Robastre. 
After  a  good  deal  of  general  and  promiscuous  fighting,  it 
is  agreed  that  the  quarrel  should  be  decided  by  single 
combat.  Roland  is  chosen  on  the  part  of  Charlemagne, 
and  Olivier,  son  of  Regnier,  duke  of  Genoa,  on  the  side  of 
Girard.^  These  two  champions  had  become  acquainted 
during  a  truce,  and  recognizing  each  other  in  the  heat  of 
combat,  they  drop  their  arms  and  embrace  with  much 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  12. 


CH.  IV.]  GALTEN    RHETORE.  315 

cordiality.  By  their  means  a  reconciliation  is  effected,  and 
the  paladins  of  France  resolved  to  turn  their  united  arms 
against  the  Saracens. 

During  the  combat  with  Olivier,  Roland  had  been  at  one 
time  in  imminent  danger,  and  Charlemagne  had  vowed  a 
pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem.  The  account  of  that  expedition 
is  detailed  in  the  commencement  of  the  romance  of 

GrALYEN    RhETORE,^ 

which  was  first  printed  at  Paris  in  the  year  1500.  In  that 
work  Charlemagne  and  his  paladins,  among  whom  was 
Olivier,  son  of  the  duke  of  Genoa,  proceed  incognito  to 
Jerusalem.  Having  betrayed  themselves  at  that  place 
by  their  eagerness  in  search  of  relics,  the  patriarch  of 
Jerusalem  considers  it  indispensable  that  they  should  pay  a 
visit  of  ceremony  to  King  Hugues.  They  find  this  monarch 
encamped  on  a  vast  plain  with  his  grandees,  who  jvere 
all  neat-herds  or  drovers,  and  his  majesty  a  waggoner. 
Roland  looked  into  court,  where  he  counted  100,000  hogs, 
who  were  feeding  on  wheat.  The  paladins  inquired  if  there 
was  lodging  for  them,  and  were  told  by  the  porter  that  he 
had  room  for  four  thousand.  On  the  day  of  their  arrival 
the  French  peers  were  very  kindly  entertained  at  table, 
but,  notwithstanding  the  amj^le  accommodation,  they  were 
lodged  in  the  same  aj^artment  at  night.  King  Hugues, 
though  a  very  good  man,  was  extremely  curious  to  learn 
what  strangers  said  of  his  hospitality,  and  accordingly 
concealed  an  interpreter  in  a  comer  of  the  chamber  allotted 
to  his  guests.  The  peers  being  unable  to  sleep,  began  to 
brag  (gaber).~  Roland  boasted  that  he  could  sound  his 
horn  with  such  force  that  it  would  bring  down  the  palace : 
Ogier  le  Danois  averred  that  he  would  crumble  to  dust  one 
of  the  chief  pillars  of  the  edifice :  the  boasts  of  Olivier,  the 
youngest  of  the  peers,  related  to  the  beautiful  Princess 

^  .  .  .  .  le  romant  de  Galyen  Rethore  aucc  les  batailles  faictes  a 
ronceualx  par  la  trahison  de  Gannes  per  de  France  auec  sa  miserable 
execution  faicte  de  par  lempcreur  Charlemaigne  ....  A.  Verard, 
Paris,  1520.     Other  editions  at  Paris,  Lyon,  Troj^es. 

^  For  an  account  of  this  word,  see  Menagiana,  iii.  p.  96,  and  Graesse, 
292. 


316  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

Jacquelina,  tlie  daugliter  of  Hugues.  The  king  is  informed 
of  this  conversation  before  retiring  to  rest,  and  being  much 
disajDpointed  at  hearing  nothing  but  improbable  lies, 
instead  of  the  expected  praises  of  his  hospitality,  he  treats 
his  guests  with  much  less  civility,  next  morning,  than  he 
had  formerly  used.  Having  learned  the  cause  of  his  re- 
sentment, the  paladins  deputed  Orlando  to  acquaint  him 
that  their  boasts  were  mere  pleasantries.^  King  Hugues, 
however,  informs  him  that  he  thought  they  were  in  very 
bad  taste,  and  that  the  paladins  must  consent  to  remain 
his  prisoners,  or  perform  what  they  had  undertaken.  No- 
thing but  a  very  bitter  aversion  to  liars  could  have  driven 
the  good  king  to  this  hasty  measure,  since  he  was  obliged 
in  its  execution  to  expose  the  honour  of  his  family  in  a 
very  delicate  point.  The  French  peers  accept  the  latter 
alternative  proposed  to  them  ;  and  from  the  fulfilment  of 
the  boast  of  Olivier,  sprung  G-alyen,  the  hero  of  the  ro- 
mance, surnamed  Rhetore,  or  Restaure,  by  the  fairy  who 
presided  at  his  birth,  because  by  his  means  there  was  to 
be  revived  in  France  the  high  sj^irit  of  chivalry,  which  was 
in  danger  of  being  lost  by  the  death  of  the  paladins,  who 
perished  at  Roncesvalles. 

This  young  prince  having  grown  up,  set  out  for  Europe 
in  quest  of  his  father.  Having  arrived  at  G-enoa,  he 
learned  that  Charlemagne  and  his  peers  were  engaged  in 
an  expedition  against  the  Saracens  of  Spain.  To  Spain  he 
accordingly  directed  his  course,  but  met  with  many  adven- 
tures, and  performed  a  variety  of  exploits,  before  reaching 
the  camjD  of  Charlemagne.  Thence  he  departed  for  a  divi- 
sion of  the  army,  in  which  he  understood  his  father  was 
brigaded.  He  arrived  after  the  defeat  of  Eoncesvalles,  and 
was  only  recognized  by  Olivier  in  his  expiring  moments.^ 
Galyen  having  performed  the  last  duties  to  his  father,  was 
of  great  service  in  the  subsequent  war  with  Marsilius,  and 
also  detected  the  treason,  and  insisted  on  the  punishment, 
of  Gano  (or  Ganellon)  ;  the  account  of  which  nearly  corre- 

*  The  gabs  are  analyzed  in  the  Menagiana,  1715,  p.   110.     These 
famous  gabs  are  first  met  with  in  a  romance  of  the  twelfth  century,  pub- 
lished by  J.  Michel,  from  a  MSS.  in  the  Brit.  Mus.,  12mo.,  London,      1 
1836.     Madden. 

^  See  Appendix,  No.  13. 


I 


CH.  IV.]  MILLES    ET    AMYS.  317 

Spends  with  the  detail  in  the  chronicle  of  Turpin.  He  was 
soon,  however,  obliged  to  depart  on  hearing  of  the  death 
of  Hugues,  and  the  usurpation  of  the  crown  by  the  brothers 
of  that  prince  ;  he  vanquislies  them  in  single  combat, 
rescues  his  mother,  whom  they  had  condemned  to  death, 
and  afterwards,  in  her  right,  ascends  the  throne. 

The  two  following  romances  are  believed  to  have  been 
written  in  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century,  but  the 
first  edition  of  both  is  without  date.     In  the  j^rologue  to 

MiLLES    ET    AmYS.^ 

which  shall  be  first  mentioned,  the  work  is  said  to  be  ex- 
tracted from  ancient  chronicles.  "  J'ay  voulu  extraire  leurs 
faicts  et  gestes,  et  les  fortunes  a  eux  advenues  ainsi  comme 
Je  les  ay  trouvees  en  histoires  anciennes  jadis  trouvees  et 
enregistrt'es  en  plusieurs  livres  faisaut  mention  d'eux  par 
maniere  de  croniques,"  and  in  the  58th  chapter,  "  il  est 
assavoir  que  ceste  hystoire  icy  a  este  extraicte  de  I'une  des 
trois  gestes  du  royaume  de  France,  et  ne  furent  que  trois 
gestes  au  dit  j)ays  qui  ont  eu  honneur  et  renomme,  dequoy 
le  premier  a  este  Doolin  de  Mayence,  1' autre  Guerin,  la 
tierce  si  a  este  de  Pepin  dequoy  est  issu  le  Eoy  Charle- 
magne." This  detail  about  the  ancient  histories,  and  the 
three  Gestes,  is  probably  feigned  to  give  the  stamp  of 
authority.  Milles  and  Amys,  however,  are  mentioned  in 
the  Chronicle  of  Albericus  TriumFontium  [Leibnitz,  Access. 
histor.  ii.  s.  1,  p.  108],  but  it  is  also  related  in  the  earlier 
metrical  Ogier  le  Danois  of  Raimbert  de  Paris  (v.  5884,  &c.), 
an  author  of  the  thirteenth  century,  who  says  they  perished 
in  the  year  774,  in  an  expedition  undertaken  by  Charle- 
magne against  Didier,  king  of  the  Lombards.  Their  story 
is  besides  related  in  the  Sjiteculum  Historiale  of  Vincent  de 
Beauvais  [xxiii.  c.  162],  and  is  there  said  to  have  occurred 
in  the  reign  of  Pepin.  The  early  part  of  the  romance, 
particularly  that  which  relates  to  the  leprosy  of  Amys,  and 
his  cure  by  sacrifice  of  the  children  of  Milles,  is  the  subject 

'  La  tres  ioyeuse  plaisante  &  recreatiue  hystoire  dos  faitz,  gestes, 
triumplies  &  prouesses  des  ....  vaillans  chevaliers  Milles  et  Amys, 
etc.  The  first  edition,  wit  a  title  in  verses,  was  published,  according  to 
Brunet;  about  1503,  by  A.  Verard  at  Paris. 


318  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

of  the  Englisli  metrical  Amys  and  Amylion,  of  whicli  an 
account  has  been  given  by  Mr.  Ellis,  in  his  Specimens  of 
Metrical  Eomances  [iii.  p.  396-432,  ed.  1811].' 

Milles  was  the  son  of  Anceaume,  count  of  Clermont,  and 
Amys  of  his  seneschal.  The  former  came  into  the  world 
with  the  mark  of  a  sword  on  his  right  hand,  to  the  utter 

^  This  story  was  one  of  the  most  renowned  and  widely  diffused. 
Numerous  versions  of  it  are  found,  especially  in  poetry,  in  the  different 
European  countries  from  Italy  to  England  and  from  Spain  to  Iceland. 
See  Weber,  Metrical  Eomances,  ii.  pp.  369-473.  The  germ  of  it  is 
found  in  the  Seven  Wise  Masters.  See  Loiseleur  Deslongchamps, 
Essai  sur  les  Fables  Indiennes,  p.  163,  166.  Conrad  of  Wiirtzburg 
translated  it  into  German,  calling  the  heroes  Engelhard  and  Engeldrud. 
It  furnished  the  subject  for  an  Italian  drama,  and  found  its  way  to  Ice- 
land (Saga  bibliothek  med  Anmserkninger,  etc.,  af.  P.  F.  Mueller, 
Kioeb.,  1820,  iii.  p.  480).  Grimm's  notes  to  Der  arme  Heinrich,  p.  188, 
etc.,  161;  Keller,  Li  Eomans  di  Sept  Sages,  1856,  p.  ccxxxvi.,  etc. ; 
Warton,  History  of  English  Poetry,  etc.  The  text  of  the  Celtic  version 
from  the  Llyfr  Coch  o  Hergest  (fourteenth  century),  together  with 
French  translation,  will  be  found  in  the  Revue  Celtique,  Paris,  1880,  t. 
iv.  p.  201,  etc.  A  new  rhymed  version  of  it,  entitled  the  Dit  des  trois 
pommes,  ed.  by  Trebutien,  Paris,  1836,  was  made  in  the  fourteenth 
century,  at  which  time  was  also  composed  the  Miracle  de  Nostre-dame 
d'Amis  et  d'Amille,  edited  by  Mommerque  and  Michel,  in  the  Theatre 
Fran^ais  du  Moyen  Age,  Like  so  many  other  poems  it  was  reduced  into 
prose  in  the  fifteenth  century.  The  legend  is  imitated  in  another 
romance,  often  printed,  called  Hystoire  de  Olivier  de  Castille  et  de 
Arthur  d'Algarbe,  son  loyal  compagnon.  See  Melanges  tires  d'une 
grande  Bibliotheque,  vol.  i.  p.  79,  etc.  At  last  it  dwindled  into  a  street 
ballad.  Amis  and  Amiloun  are  there  transformed  into  Alexander  and 
Lodowick,  princes  of  Hungary  and  France,  the  Steward  into  Guido, 
Prince  of  Spain,  and  the  part  of  Duke  is  given  to  the  Emperor  of  Ger- 
many.— Evans,  Old  Ballads,  vol.  i,  p.  77.  See  F.  Michel's  concise 
notice  of  the  story  in  the  Theatre  Frangais  du  Moyen  Age,  p.  216-218. 
Dr.  C.  Hofmann  has  a  monograph  on  the  legend :  "  Amis  et  Amiles 
und  Jourdain  de  Blaives.  Zwei  Altfranz.  Heldengedichte."  Erlangen, 
1882.  See  also  Kolbing  (E.),  Zur  Ueberlieferung  der  Sage  von  Amicus 
und  Amelius,  in  Paul  and  Braune's  "  Beitrage  zur  geschichte  der 
deutschen  Sprache  u.  Literatur,"  1877,  iv.  p.  272,  etc.  See  also  Depping 
(Romancers,  ii.  191),  who  connects  the  tale  with  different  Spanish 
romances  ;  also  J.  W.  Wolfs  "  Niederliindische  Sagen,"  No.  38.  Cf. 
an  old  Si)anish  chronicle  in  F.  Wolf,  Ueber  die  Romanzen  Poesie  der 
Spanier,  p.  2,  and  F.  Wolf,  Ueber  eine  Sammlung  Spanischer  Romanzen 
in  fliegenden  Blattern,  etc.,  Wien,  1850,  pp.  82,  181  ;  also  Ward's 
"  Catalogue  of  Romances,"  i.  pp.  674-680.  See  also  Graesse,  Lehrbuch, 
Bd.  ii.  abth.  3,  p.  348 ;  Wiener  Jahrb.,  Bd.  xxxi.  p.  130,  and  Acta  Sanc- 
torum, Octobris,  tom.  vi.  p.  130-133.  See  also  an  article  in  the  third 
vol.  of  the  Romania. 


CH.  IV.]  MILLES    ET    AMYS.  319 

amazement  of  the  pope,  who  held  him  at  the  baptismal 
font.  His  parents,  in  gratitude  for  his  birth,  set  out  on  a 
pilgrimage  to  the  Holy  Land.  The  count  was  taken  cap- 
tive by  the  sultan  of  Acre,  and  banished  to  an  island 
which  for  forty  years  had  been  governed  by  a  griffin.  But 
instead  of  being  devoured  by  this  monster,  as  was  in- 
tended, he  contrived  to  despatch  him  by  favour  of  St. 
George,  who  descended  from  heaven  on  horseback,  clad  in 
white  armour  bright  as  the  sun  [c.  7]. 

During  the  absence  of  Anceaume,  however,  the  Count 
de  Limoges  seizes  on  Clermont.  The  nurse  of  Milles  is  in 
consequence  forced  to  fly  with  her  charge,  and  beg  alms 
from  province  to  province.  Amys,  son  of  the  seneschal, 
is  meanwhile  brought  up  as  a  foundling  by  his  uncle 
Eegnier  of  Langres,  who  durst  not  educate  him  as  his 
nephew,  being  a  vassal  of  the  Duke  of  Burgundy,  who  was 
an  ally  of  the  Count  de  Limoges  [c.  10]. 

Milles  commences  his  career  in  chivalry  by  purloining 
his  nurse's  hoard,  which  she  had  amassed  while  flying 
with  him  from  Clermont.  With  this  treasure  he  repairs 
to  the  province  of  Burgundy,  where  he  forms  an  intimate 
friendship  with  Amys,  Their  perfect  resemblance  in  ap- 
pearance is  the  amusement  of  everyone,  and  gives  rise  to 
many  comical  mistakes  [cc.  17,  47]. 

At  length  Milles  being  discovered  to  be  the  son  of  the 
rightful  count  of  Clermont,  is  forced  to  leave  Burgundy, 
and  escapes  with  his  friend  Amys  to  Constantinople.  Here 
Milles  meets  with  his  mother,  the  countess  of  Clermont, 
who  had  escaped  from  the  power  of  the  sultan  of  Acre, 
and  was  acting  as  governess  to  the  Greek  princess  Sidoina. 
The  city  was  at  that  time  besieged  by  the  sultan,  but  he 
is  totally  defeated,  and  the  father  of  Milles,  who  was  still 
detained  prisoner  by  the  Saracen  monarch,  is  freed  from 
captivity  ;  Milles  marries  Sidoina,  and  soon  after  ascends 
in  her  right  the  throne  of  Constantinoj^le  [c.  29]. 

After  some  time  spent  in  the  cares  of  empire,  Milles 
departs  with  Amys  for  France,  recovers  his  paternal  in- 
heritance, and  bestows  a  dukedom  on  his  friend.  In  his 
absence  the  Saracens  burn  his  capital,  his  empress,  and 
her  mother ;  and  Milles,  in  consequence  of  this  conflagra- 
tion, espouses  Bellisande,  daughter  of  Charlemagne,  while 


320  HISTORY    OF   FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

Amys  is  united  to  Lubiane,  the  heiress  of  the  duke  of 
Friezeland  [c.  43]. 

Some  years  having  passed  in  unwonted  repose,  the 
friends  at  length  set  out  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem. 
When  about  to  return,  Amys  is  unexpectedly  smitten  with 
leprosy.  On  their  arrival  Milles  is  joyfully  received  by 
Bellisande  ;  but  his  unfortunate  companion  is  driven  from 
his  own  castle  by  his  wife,  who  appears  to  have  been 
ignorant  of  the  value  of  a  husband  of  this  description.^ 
The  servants  whom  she  detaches  to  drown  him,  being 
moved  with  compassion,  conduct  their  master  to  the  castle 
of  Milles,  where  he  is  received  with  the  utmost  hospitality 
[c.  53]. 

Soon  after  his  arrival  it  is  revealed  to  Amys  in  a  dream, 
that  he  could  only  be  cured  of  the  leprosy  with  which  he 
was  afflicted,  if  bathed  in  the  blood  of  the  children  of 
Milles.  The  leper  informs  his  friend  of  the  prescription 
he  had  received,  which  I  suppose  was  in  those  days  ac- 
counted a  specific  for  this  disorder,  as  Glower,  in  the  2nd 
book  of  his  Confessio  Amantis,  tells  a  story  of  Constan- 
tino, when  struck  with  leprosy,  ordering  a  bath  of  this 
description.^  The  heads  of  his  two  infants  are  imme- 
diately struck  off  by  the  father.  Amys  thus  enjoys  the 
benefit  of  the  prescribed  bath,  and  Milles  soon  after  re- 
turning to  lament  over  the  bodies  of  his  children,  finds 
them  in  as  perfect  health  as  before  they  had  been  be- 
headed, "  et  se   jouoyent   dedans  le   lict,  I'un  a   I'autre, 

^  Contrary  to  modern  medical  opinion,  lepers  were  in  tlie  INIiddle  Ages 
popularly  credited  with  great  sexual  vigour,  AVomen  who  were  willing 
to  do  so  were  permitted  to  marry  lepers  by  the  Gregorian  Decretals. 

^  See  infra,  note  to  Ser  Giovanni,  iv.  1,  Grimm"s  notes  on  Der  arme 
Heinrich,  p.  173  ;  Von  der  Hagen,  Gesammtabenteuer,  iii.  p.  clii., 
etc. ;  Germania,  vii.  p.  323,  etc.,  and  Wolf,  Niederlandische  Sagen,  No. 
434. 

The  Mongol  chief  Tcharmaghoun,  who  flourished  in  the  earlier  part 
of  the  thirteenth  century,  is  reported  to  have  been  apprised  by  a  Jew- 
that  he  would  recover  from  a  malady  which  afflicted  him  by  plunging 
his  feet  into  the  entrails  of  young  children  newly  killed.  For  this  pur- 
pose he  caused  thu-ty  infants  to  be  massacred,  but  when  the  remedy 
proved  ineffectual  he  caused  the  Jew  to  be  put  to  death.  See  Lebeau, 
Histoire  du  Bas  Empire,  vol.  xvii.  p.  456,  note  by  Brosset.  See  on 
this  subject  an  article  in  The  Month,  Feb.,  1885,  entitled  :  The  Pound 
of  Flesh. 


CH.  IV.]  MILLES    ET    AMYS.  321 

d'line  pomme  que  uostre  Seigneur  leur  avoit  donnc " 
[c.  54].' 

In  gratitude  for  these  miraculous  cures,  the  two  friends 
set  out  on  a  pilgrimage  ;  but  on  their  return  through 
Lombardy  they  are  treacherously  killed  by  Ogier  the 
Dane,  who  was  at  that  time  in  rebellion  against  Charle- 
magne [c.  58]. 

Milles,  when  he  proceeded  on  his  pilgrimage,  left  his 
two  children,  Anceaume  and  Florisell,  in  the  cradle. 
These  infants  were  constantly  guarded  by  an  ape,  who 
acted  as  an  assiduous  nurse,  and  was  gifted  with  a  most 
excellent  understanding  and  benevolent  disposition. — "  Si 
n'est  point  de  memoire  d'homme  que  jamais  on  n'ouyt 
parler  de  la  condition  de  tel  Cinge :  Car  il  avoit  en  luy 
grant  sens  et  memoire,  et  mainte  bonne  maniere  avoit 
apprise  tandis  qu'on  le  nourissoit.  Sy  aymoit  parfaicte- 
ment  ce  Cinge  les  deux  j)etis  enfans  du  Comte,  tellement 
que  niiict  et  jour  ne  les  pouoit  laisser ;  et  ne  sceut  on 
oncques  garder  qu'il  ne  couchast  toutes  les  nuicts  avec- 
ques  eux  sans  leur  faire  nulle  mesprision,  ny  aucun  mal : 
ne  pour  quelque  bature  qu'on  luy  sceust  faire  jamais  ne 
vouloit  laisser  les  petis  enfans,  et  tout  le  long  du  jour  leur 
tenoit  compagnie,  et  estoit  toute  son  intention  aux  enfans. 
Et  ne  faisoit  que  les  baiser  et  accoller,  et  jamais  ne  vouloit 
ne  boire  ne  menger  si  ce  n'estoit  de  la  propre  viande  qu'on 
bailloit  aux  enfans."  This  ape  had  prepared  the  minds 
of  the  household  of  Milles  for  the  intelligence  of  his 
death,  by  equipping  his  children  in  a  complete  suit  of 
mourning  [c.  58]. 

Lubiane,  the  wicked  widow  of  Amys,  seeing  that  the 
children  were  now  left  without  the  protection  of  a  father, 
resolves,  in  concert  with  her  brother,  on  their  destruction. 
The  countess,  their  mother,  is  privately  put  to  death,  and 
the  children  carried  off,  to  the  great  consternation  of  the 
ape,  who  insists  on  accompanying  them.  After  three 
months'  detention  at  the  residence  of  Lubiane,  they  are 
thrown  by  her  command  into  the  sea.  The  ape  swims  after 
them  till  two  angels  of  paradise  descend  in  disguise  of 

^  The  Welsh  A'ersion  does  not  mention  this  apple,  but  states  that  each 
had  a  rod  mark  like  a  silk  thread  round  his  neck  in  attestation  of  the 
miracle. 

I.  Y 


322  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

swans,  and  bear  away  the  cliildi*en  safe  through  the  sea ; 
one  carries  Anceannie  to  the  coast  of  Provence,  where  he  is 
picked  up  and  educated  by  a  woodman  [c.  74].  The  other 
conducts  Florisell  to  the  shores  of  Genoa,  where  he  is  taken 
under  the  protection  of  a  lioness,  who  introduces  him  to 
her  cubs,  with  which  he  is  gradually  accustomed  to  hunt. 
The  ape  having  lost  sight  of  them,  continues  to  swim  till 
he  is  received  on  board  a  merchant  vessel,  which  soon  after 
comes  into  harbour.  Its  crew  propose  to  take  him  home 
to  their  own  country,  but  he  hastily  wishes  them  good 
morning. — "  Et  pour  le  bien  qu'ils  luy  avoient  fait  ne  leur 
dist  aultre  grant  mercy,  sinon  qu'il  leur  fist  la  moue." 

Our  aj^e  spent  fifteen  days  in  a  forest,  searching  for  the 
children,  for  whose  sake  he  subsisted  all  that  time  on  herbs 
and  water,  although  habitually  he  was  somewhat  addicted 
to  the  pleasures  of  the  table.  Finding  his  search  in  the 
forest  vain,  he  set  out  for  Clermont,  the  j^aternal  inheri- 
tance of  his  wards,  where  he  was  received  with  acclama- 
tions by  the  populace ;  but  he  declined  the  honours  of  a 
public  entertainment,  as  he  felt  his  spirits  dej^ressed  on 
account  of  the  loss  of  the  children :  it  would  also  appear 
that  he  was  in  very  bad  humour,  "  car  il  mordoit  et  esgra- 
tignoit  tons,  qui  n'estoit  pas  sa  coustume."  He  paid  his 
first  visit  to  Richer,  the  old  seneschal  of  Milles,  whom  he 
persuaded  to  proceed  to  the  j^alace  of  Lubiane,  to  ascertain 
the  fate  of  the  childi-en.  The  seneschal  is  immediately 
thrown  into  prison  by  Lubiane  [c.  79],  who  sets  out,  accom- 
panied by  her  brother,  for  the  court  of  Charlemagne,  to 
obtain  a  grant  of  the  county  of  Clermont,  on  pretence  that 
the  race  of  Milles  is  extinct.  Meanwhile  the  ape  having 
insinuated  himself  into  the  confidence  of  the  jailer,  gains 
access  to  the  seneschal,  and  at  the  very  first  interview  sug- 
gests the  propriety  of  writing  to  Charlemagne,  to  give  him 
some  insight  into  the  character  of  the  claimants.  The  aj^e 
charges  himself  with  the  letter,  but  from  the  badness  of 
the  roads  and  want  of  relays,  he  does  not  reach  Paris  till 
some  days  after  the  traitors.  He  makes  his  first  appear- 
ance at  court,  though  still  in  his  travelling  dress,  during  a 
great  festival,  and  signalizes  his  arrival  by  assaulting  the 
Countess  Lubiane,  rending  her  garments,  and  even  com- 
mitting ravages  on  her  person.     He  then  respectfully  pre- 


CH.  IV.]  MILLES    ET    AMYS.  323 

seuts  the  letter  to  Charlemagne  [c.  82],  who  thinks  the 
matter  of  sufficient  importance  to  consult  his  peers.  The 
difficulty  is  to  find  a  champion  to  maintain  the  accusation: 
the  ai^e.  however,  readily  steps  forth  as  opponent  to  one  of 
the  relatives  of  Lubiane,  who  ottered  himself  as  her 
defender.  Defiances  of  this  description,  singular  as  they 
may  ap|»ear,  were  not  unknown  in  France  about  the  period 
of  the  composition  of  this  work.  In  Monfaucon  (Monu- 
mens  de  la  Monarchic  Francoise,  vol.  iii.  p.  68),  there  is  an 
accoimt  of  a  combat  which  took  place  in  1371,  between  a 
greyhound  and  a  knight  who  had  treacherously  slain  the 
dog's  master.  This  animal  attacked  the  assassin  with  such 
violence  whenever  they  happened  to  meet,  that  susj^icion 
was  at  length  excited,  and  Charles  appointed  a  solemn 
combat  between  the  parties.  The  knight  was  j^rovided 
with  a  club :  the  dog  had  only  his  natural  arms,  but  was 
supplied  with  an  open  cask  as  a  place  of  retreat ;  the  just 
cause  prevailed,  the  traitor  was  forced  to  confess  his  crime, 
and  a  sculptiu-e  commemorating  the  event  long  adorned 
the  chimney-piece  in  the  hall  of  the  castle  of  Montargis.^ 
On  the  present  occasion,  too,  the  good  cause  and  our  ape 
are  triumphant.  The  champion  of  Lubiane  is  soon  obliged 
to  confess  himself  vanquished,  in  order  to  avoid  being  torn 
piecemeal :  according  to  the  established  customs,  he  is 
hanged  after  the  combat,  and  Lubiane  is  burned  alive. 
"We  are  informed  by  the  author  of  the  romance  [c.  85],  that 

^  Joseph  Scaliger  also  relates  the  event.  The  actual  circumstances 
were  that  Aubry  de  Montdidier  was  assassinated  by  a  certain  Chevalier 
Macaire.  in  the  forest  of  Bendy,  and  buried  at  the  foot  of  a  tree.  His 
faithful  dog  only  left  the  spot  when  urged  by  the  pangs  of  hunger,  and 
went  to  the  house  of  a  friend  of  Aubry's  in  Paris,  and  by  his  behaviour 
induced  search  to  be  made,  which  led  to  the  discovery  of  the  body. 
Some  time  afterwards  the  animal  perceived  Macaire,  whom  he  attacked 
with  fury.  The  King  heard  of  this,  and  declared  qicil  icktait  gage  de 
bataiUc,  that  is.  ordered  one  of  those  combats.  csLlledji'.gemcnts  de  Dieu, 
on  which  innocence,  it  was  supposed,  was  privileged  to  triumph.  M.  de 
Sainte  Foix.  in  his  Essais  historiques  sur  Paris,  i.  215,  places  the 
event  in  the  time  of  Philippe  Augustus.  See  further,  Graesse, 
ii.  ah.  3,  p.  352,  and  Hagen's  Gesammtabenteuer,  i.  cv.,  etc.  Liebrecht 
recalls  a  passage  of  Plutarch's  ''  Moralia,  de  SoUertia  Animal.,"'  c.  xiii., 
and  makes  the  following  quotation  from  Pliny's  "Natural  History,"  viii. 
40  (61) :  '•  Ab  alio  (sc.  cane)  in  Epiro  agnitum  in  conventu  percussorem 
domini,  laniatuque  et  latratu  coactum  fateri  scelus." 


324  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

the  history  of  the  ape,  and  particularly  of  this  judicial 
combat,  were  delineated  in  his  time  on  the  walls  of  the 
great  hall  of  the  palace  of  Paris,  which  was  bui'ned,  I 
believe,  in  1618. 

While  the  ape  was  thus  distinguishing  himself  at  court, 
and  preparing  materials  for  the  genius  of  future  artists, 
Florisell,  the  son  of  Milles,  having  followed  his  comrades, 
the  yomig  lions,  in  the  course  of  their  field  sports  as  far  as 
the  Venetian  territory,  is  caught  by  Gloriant,  the  Saracen 
king  of  that  country,  who  delighted  in  the  chase  of  wild 
beasts  [c.  87].  In  a  few  days  the  lioness  and  her  cubs 
came  to  Venice,  to  reclaim  him,  but  by  this  time  her  eleve 
had  fallen  in  love  with  the  king's  daughter,  "parquoy  Flo- 
rissell  ne  pensa  plus  au  lion,  ne  n'entint  conte ; "  and  they 
are  accordingly  obliged  to  return  without  him  to  their  den, 
after  depopulating  the  neighbourhood  [c.  88]. 

Anceaume,  the  other  son  of  Milles,  being  detected  in  an 
intrigue  with  the  daughter  of  the  woodman,  is  driven  from 
the  house,  and  flies  for  refuge  to  an  adjacent  monastery. 
To  this  place  Eicher,  the  seneschal,  accompanied  by  the 
ape,  comes  to  pay  his  devotions.  The  animal,  by  the 
fineness  of  his  nose,  soon  recognizes  his  young  master,  and 
persuades  the  seneschal  to  take  him  along  with  them. 

He  is  accordingly  introduced  by  the  ape  at  the  court  of 
Charlemagne,  and  serves  in  an  expedition  undertaken  by 
that  monarch  against  Venice,  of  which  the  professed  object 
was  to  recover  the  body  of  St.  Mark,  which  had  been  in- 
terred there  about  five  hundred  years  before  [c.  93].  In 
this  campaign  Florisell  distinguishes  himself  on  the  side  of 
the  Saracens,  and  Anceaume  on  that  of  the  Christians. 
Anceaume  takes  Gloriant,  king  of  Venice,  prisoner ;  and 
Florisell  overthrows  and  sends  captive  to  Venice  the  bravest 
peers  of  Charlemagne.  At  length  the  two  brothers  are 
sent  out  against  each  other,  and  after  a  furious  contest, 
being  both  tired,  they  sit  down  to  rest.  The  young  war- 
riors are  thus  led  mutually  to  recount  the  story  of  the 
early  j)art  of  their  lives.  From  this  reciprocal  detail  they 
conjecture  that  they  are  related,  and  Florisell  in  conse- 
quence proceeds  with  Anceaume  to  the  camp  of  Charle- 
magne [c.  110].  There  the  surmises  of  the  brothers  are 
confirmed  by  the  testimony  of  Eicher  and  of  the  ape,  who 


CH.  IV.]  JOURDAIN    DE    BLAVES.  325 

embraces  tliem  alternately  with  much  sympathy.  "  Les 
deux  freres  s'eu  allerent  coucher  ensemble,  et  le  Cinge  s'en 
alia  avec  eux,  et  se  mussa  dessoubz  leur  lict  ainsi  qu'il 
avoit  apprins.  Et  puis,  c^uant  ils  furent  couchez,  les  vint 
accoller  et  baiser  tout  a  son  ayse ;  tout  ne  plus  ne  moins 
que  fait  ung  amant  qui  baise  s'amye.  Si  fut  ce  Cinge  celle 
nuit  si  surprins  d'amour,  qu'il  se  coucha  entre  les  deux 
enfans,  la  ou  il  mourut  la  nuict  de  joye.  Et  quant  le  roy 
Charlemagne  le  sceut  si  en  getta  maint  soupir,  et  alia  dire 
— Haa  Cinge  moult  avois  le  cueur  scavant ;  Je  scay  de  vray 
que  tu  es  mort  de  joye."  ' 
The  romance  of 

JoURDAIN    DE    BlAYES  " 

may  in  one  respect  be  regarded  as  a  continuation  of  !Milles 
and  Amys  ;  Jourdain,  who  gives  name  to  the  work,  being 
the  son  of  Girard  of  Blaves,  one  of  the  children  of  Amys. 
It  is  said  to  be  "  extraite  d'ung  viel  livre  moult  ancien 
qu'estoit  en  Eyme  et  viel  Picart ; "  a  form  in  which  it  is 
often  cited  by  Du  Cange  in  his  G-lossary.  Having  been 
converted  into  prose,  it  was  printed  at  Paris  in  4to.,  with- 
'ut  date,  and  at  the  same  place  in  folio,  1520. 

The  hero  of  this  romance  came  into  the  world  with  one 
of  his  legs  white  as  snow,  and  the  other  black  as  ebony ; 
while  the  right  arm  appeared  of  a  rose,  and  the  left  of  a 
citrine  colour.  A  clerk  explained  that  these  personal 
pecuharities  portended  a  checjuered  life — that  at  one  time 
this  party-coloured  infant  would  be  seated  on  a  throne, 
that  at  another  he  would  be  poor  and  in  captivity. 

'  See  supp.  note. 

-  Les  faitz  et  prouesses  du  noble  et  vaillant  cheualier  Jourdain  de 
Blaues,  ....  lequel  ....  conquesta  plusieurs  royaulraes  sur  les 
Sarrazins,  etc.  Paris,  ^Michel  le  Noir,  1520.  See  Reiffenbcrgs  intro- 
duction to  his  edition  of  the  Chronicle  of  ]Mouskes,  where  he  notices 
(ii.  ccliv.)  a  MS.  of  this  romance  in  the  Tournay  library.  This  MS.  con- 
tains about  -22,000  verses.  It  is  very  different,  at  least  in  form,  from 
the  Romance  similarly  entitled,  of  which  F.  Michel  has  giA'en  an  extract 
in  his  edition  of  the  Chanson  de  Roland  (p.  xxxi.-xxxv.).  The  romance 
of  Jourdain  cited  by  Renouard.  Journal  des  Savants  (July.  1833,  p.  389), 
MS.  Bibl.  du  Roy,  supp.  fr.  632-15,  is  likewise  different.  See  also  notices 
by  Reiffenberg  in  the  Bulletin  de  rAcademie  Royale  de  Bruxelles,  torn, 
iv.  and  v.,  1S37-8,  and  Hofmann  (C),  Amis  et  Amiles  und  Jourdain  de 
Blaves.     Erlangen  1882. 


326  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

These  predictions  are  verified  by  the  event,  for  Jourdain 
in  his  youth  is  so  much  persecuted  by  a  knight  who  had 
treacherously  slain  his  father,  that  he  is  obliged  to  abandon 
his  paternal  estates.  On  his  voyage  from  Blaves,  being 
unfortunately  shipwrecked,  he  is  preserved,  not  by  a 
dolphin  or  a  swan,  but  by  a  stag  which  was  luckily  in 
waiting,  and  which  carries  him  to  the  shore  of  Gardes. 
The  incidents  that  occurred  on  that  coast  have  a  strong 
resemblance  to  the  landing  of  Ulysses  in  the  kingdom  of 
Alcinous,  and  his  interview  with  Nausicaa.  Jourdain,  like 
the  G-recian  hero,  is  discovered  by  Driabelle,  the  king's 
daughter,  while  he  was  reposing  under  a  tree,  and  although 
he  did  not  use  the  modest  precaution  of  Ulysses,^  he  is 
accosted  by  the  princess,  who  conducts  him  to  her  father's 
palace,  and  clothes  him  in  suitable  raiment.  He  is  at  first 
mistaken  for  a  person  of  low  degree  ;  but  having  van- 
quished an  host  of  pagans  and  giants,  by  which  the  king- 
dom of  Gardes  was  attacked,  he  receives  the  Princess 
Driabelle  in  marriage  as  the  reward  of  his  prowess. 

Soon  after  the  nuptials,  Jourdain  sets  out  with  his  bride 
for  France,  in  order  to  recover  his  paternal  inheritance. 
During  the  voyage  a  storm  having  arisen,  it  is  proposed 
that  Driabelle,  who  was  by  this  time  pregnant,  should  be 
thrown  overboard  as  a  victim  to  appease  the  tempest.  Her 
husband  at  first  hesitates,  but  one  of  his  knights  removes 
his  scruples  by  suggesting  that  if  an  air-hole  Avere  bored 
in  one  side,  she  might  be  placed  in  a  large  cask,  fitted  up 
with  a  comfortable  bed,  and  stocked  with  gold  and  silver. 
On  his  return  to  Gardes,  Jourdain  boasts  of  this  admirable 
expedient  to  his  father-in-law,  who  of  course  could  feel  no 
uneasiness  as  to  the  fate  of  a  daughter  thrown  overboard 
in  a  cask  which  contained  so  much  gold  and  silver,  and 
had  an  air-hole  bored  in  its  side. 

Some  years  after,  our  hero  having  succeeded  to  the 
crown  of  Gardes,  sets  out  in  quest  of  Driabelle,  and,  after 
a  long  search,  finds  her  residing  with  a  female  hermit  on 
the  borders  of  a  forest  in  the  territory  of  Pisa.  The 
wooden  cask  in  which  she  had  been  enshrined  was  picked 

'  'Etc  TTVKivfjg  S'vXrjQ  TrropOop  KXacre  x^tpt  Traxeiy, 
4>iiXXwv  ojg  pvaaiTO  Trepi  xpoi  [xijCta  0a;roc. 

Udysset,  vi.  128,  129. 


CH.  IV.]  DOOLIN    DE    MAYENCE.  327 

up  Oil  the  shore,  to  which  it  had  iniraciiloiisly  floated,  hy 
a  miller  in  the  neighbourhood,  who  received  Driabelle  in 
his  house,  but  exposed  the  daughter  to  whom  she  shortly 
'after  gave  birth.  To  avoid  the  amorous  solicitations  with 
which  she  was  persecuted  by  her  host,  she  had  sought 
refuge  with  the  recluse.  Soon  after  this  discovery,  Jour- 
dain,  while  hunting  one  day  in  the  forest,  meets  his 
daughter  in  company  with  two  fawns  and  a  hind,  by 
whom  she  had  been  kindly  entreated  when  exposed  by  the 
miller.  Fortunately  the  princess  had  inherited  some  per- 
sonal peculiarities  from  her  father,  whence  the  queen  is 
enabled  to  identify  her  by  certain  marks  that  had  been 
observed  on  her  person  shortly  after  birth ;  and  as  she 
was  very  beautiful,  and  of  course  well  educated,  she  was 
betrothed  to  Sadoine,  the  Saracenic  king  of  Scotland, 
whom  Jourdain  had  recently  converted  along  with  his 
people  to  the  true  faith. 

In  this  work  the  leading  incident  bears  a  striking  re- 
semblance to  the  history  of  Apollonius  of  Tyre,  whose 
queen,  to  appease  a  storm,  was  thrown  overboard  in  a  chest, 
which  floated  to  the  coast  of  Ephesus.     (See  above,  p.  84.) 

The  romance  of 

DoOLIN    DE    MaTENCE  ^ 

is  supposed  to  have  been  written  during  the  reign  of  Charles 
Vin.  of  France,  that  is,  about  the  end  of  the  fifteenth 
century.  This  inference  has  been  drawn  partly  from  the 
language  of  the  work — partly  from  the  character  and 
actions  attributed  to  Charlemagne.  The  romancers  who 
wrote  a  few  centimes  after  his  death  did  justice  to  his 
talents  and  virtues ;  but  their  successors  have  painted 
him  as  an  unreasonable  monarch,  and  sometimes  even  as  a 
cowardly  knight.  At  whatever  period  written,  the  work 
was  first  published  in  1501,  at  Paris,  by  Verard.  This 
edition  was  followed  by  a  second  in  1549,  4to.,  from  the 
same  place  ;  and  a  third  at  Rotterdam,  1604.'^ 

Doolin  of  Mayence,  the  hero  of  this  tale  of  chivalry,  was 

'  Doolin  de  Maience  (la  Heur  des  batailles),  chevalier  preux  et  hardi, 
fils  dxi  noble  et  cheualeureux  Guy,  Comte  de  Maience. 

^  An  analysis  is  given  in  the  Count  de  Tressan's  "  Bibliotheque  des 


328  HISTORY    OF    FICTION,  [CH.  IV. 

the  son  of  Guvon  cle  Mayence,  who,  while  engaged  in  the 
chase,  had  the  misfortune  to  run  down  a  hermit  in  mistake 
for  a  stag.  As  a  suitable  j)enance  for  this  inadvertence,  he 
resolved  to  occuj^y  the  cell  of  the  deceased  for  the  re-  * 
mainder  of  his  clays.  During  his  absence  the  seneschal 
having  seized  on  Mayence,  his  countess  is  condemned  to 
death,  on  pretence  that  she  had  privately  procured  the 
assassination  of  her  husband,  and  all  she  can  obtain  is  a 
delay  in  the  execution  of  the  sentence,  in  hopes  that  some 
champion  may  appear  to  espouse  her  quarrel.  Her  chil- 
dren are  also  committed  to  a  ruffian,  with  instructions  that 
they  should  be  murdered :  this  design  is  accomplished  on 
the  younger  children,  but  Doolin  escapes,  and  is  found  by 
his  father  wandering  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  her- 
mitage. Tliere  he  is  brought  up  in  perfect  seclusion,  till, 
having  attained  the  proper  age,  he  and  his  father  set  out 
to  recover  Mayence,  and  to  rescue  the  countess.  On  their 
way  to  the  city  G-uyon  is  struck  with  sudden  blindness, 
which  was  a  manifest  indication  of  the  will  of  Heaven 
that  he  should  not  quit  his  retirement.  Doolin  therefore 
proceeds  alone,  and  after  experiencing  a  singular  adven- 
ture at  a  castle  which  lay  on  his  route,  ^  he  arrives  at 
Mayence.  There,  by  overthrowing  her  accuser,  who  must 
have  been  j^ossessed  of  wonderful  patience,  he  rescues  his 
mother  from  the  death  that  had  so  long  awaited  her.  He 
is  now  invested  with  the  sovereignty  of  Mayence,  but  has 
soon  to  sustain  a  war  with  Charlemagne,  who  had  been 
exasj^erated  at  Doolin  having  failed  on  some  occasion  to 
salute  him  \vith  proper  respect.  In  the  course  of  this  war 
the  conduct  of  Charlemagne  is  that  of  a  weak  and  tyran- 
nical prince ;  but  he  at  length  attempts  to  effect  a  recon- 
ciliation, by  offering  his  enemy  the  hand  of  the  countess  of 
Nivernois,  who  was  his  niece.  Tliis  proposal  is  rejected 
by  Doolin,  who  was  fully  as  unreasonable  as  Charlemagne, 

Romans,"  1771,  Fev.  1-70,  Melanges  tires.  See  also  Eeichard,  Bibl. 
der  Eom.,  iv.  45-90,  and  Schmidt,  Wiener  Jahrb.,  xxxi.  p.  125,  etc. 
Graesse,  All.  Lit.,  iii.  3,  p.  340,  says  it  is  extant  only  in  tbe  French 
prose  A-ei'sions.  There  is,  however,  an  incomplete  poem  of  the  story, 
MS.  7635  A.  fond  de  Bruxelles,  Bib.  Nat.,  and  also,  perhaps,  a  very  old 
metrical  text  of  the  same,  also  incomplete,  in  the  library  of  St.  Mark. 
See  P.  Lacroix,  MSS.  Ital.,  p.  163. 
^  See  Appendix,  Xo.  14. 


CH.   IV.]  OGIER    LE    DANOIS.  329 

with  great  contempt.  "  Vrayment,"  says  Charlemagne, 
"  beau  sire  Doolin,  Je  ne  me  puis  assez  esbair  de  vous 
trouver  si  clur  a  appointer."  Doolin,  however,  had  placed 
liis  affections  on  the  daughter  of  the  lord  of  Vauclere,  a 
city  beyond  the  Rhine,  not  on  account  of  her  beauty  or 
accomplishments,  but  because  she  was  beloved  by  the 
sultan  of  Turkey,  "  lequel  est  si  beau  damoyseau  que 
merveille ;  "  and  he  coveted  possession  of  the  city,  not  for 
its  extent  or  riches,  but  because  it  was  held  by  a  cruel 
giant,  the  lady's  father,  who  had  under  him  thirty  thousand 
Saracens  of  uncommon  stature  and  ferocity.  Charlemagne 
expresses  his  astonishment  that  Doolin  should  be  "  si 
outrecuidc  et  indiscret,  cj[u'il  cuide  que  Je  luy  feray  don  de 
la  chose  ou  Je  n'ay  nul  droict,  non  plus  que  a  ce  c^ui  est 
au  plus  profond  des  Indes."  The  refusal  of  Charlemagne 
to  bestow  this  territory  on  Doolin,  produces  a  single 
combat  between  them,  which  is  interruj)ted  by  an  angel, 
who  commands  the  emperor  to  acquire  it  for  Doolin  by 
force  of  arms.  Accordingly  the  remainder  of  the  romance 
is  occupied  with  the  wars  against  Yauclere  and  the  king  of 
Denmark,  who  supported  the  pretensions  of  the  handsome 
sultan.  These  campaigns  terminate  with  the  capture  of 
Vauclere,  the  marriage  of  Doolin  with  the  giant's  daughter, 
and  his  accession  to  the  throne  of  Denmark  by  right  of 
conquest. 

The  exploits  of  Doolin  are  the  subject  of  a  German 
poem,  by  Alxinger,  in  the  style  of  Oberon,  and  which,  next 
to  the  work  of  Wieland,  is  accounted  the  best  in  the  mixed 
class  of  heroic  and  comic  poetry.  But  whatever  may  be 
the  merit  of  the  j^oem,  the  Histoire  de  Doolin  is  not  an 
interesting  romance,  and  its  hero  is  chiefly  remarkable  as 
the  ancestor  of  a  long  race  of  Paladins,  particularly  Ogier 
the  Dane,  so  frequently  mentioned  by  the  Italian  poets. 

The  fabulous  history  of 

Ogier  le  Danois,^ 
though  not  printed  till  about  the  same  period  with  that  of 

'  ...  le  rommant  nome  ogier  le   dannoys,  A.  Vcrard,  Paris,  circa 
1498,  and  numerous  subsequent  editions. 
"  Aucharius  gloriosissimus  dux"  is  mentioned  by  Paul  I.  in  a  letter 


330  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IT. 

Doolin,  was  written  at  a  mucli  earlier  date,  or  at  least  the 
incidents  w^ere  earlier  imagined.  There  can  be  little  doubt 
that  a  northern  hero  of  the  name  of  Ogierus,  or  Hulgenis, 

to  King  Pepin  in  760,  as  one  of  the  two  envoys  sent  by  Pepin  to  compel 
the  Lombard  king,  Desiderius,  to  restore  certain  places  to  the  Pope  (G. 
Cenni's  "  Monumenta  dominationis  Pontificise,"  i.  p.  163,  Rom.,  1760; 
other  recensions  of  the  papal  letter  spell  "  Autharius  ").  In  the  Life  of 
Pope  Adrian  I.,  written  in  the  ninth  century  by  Anastasius,  the  Vatican 
librarian,  "  Autcharius"  appears  five  times :  he  is  a  refugee  at  the  court 
of  Desiderius  ;  he  takes  part  in  the  march  of  the  Lombards  towards 
Rome  ;  he  is  warned  back  by  Adrian  ;  he  flies  before  Charlemagne  into 
Verona;  and  he  surrenders  in  774,  together  Avith  the  widow  and  the 
two  orphan  sons  of  Carloman,  the  brother  of  Charlemagne  (Anast.  Vit. 
Eom.  Pont.,  Rome,  1718,  i.,  sections  296,  307,  308.  310,  and  314,  pp. 
236,  243,  244,  246,  247).  The  monk  of  St.  Gall  (fl.  circ.  885)  describes 
"  Otkerus  "  (or '*  Oggerus,"  according  to  some  MSS.)  as  standing  on 
one  of  the  towers  of  Pavia  to  Avatch  the  approach  of  tlie  French  army, 
and  as  pointing  out  to  Desiderius  the  person  of  the  iron  Charles  (•'  fer- 
reus  Karolus,"  Pertz,  Mon.  Germ.  Hist.,  ii.,  Han.,  1829,  p.  759).  A 
church  legend,  headed  "  Conversio  Othgerii  militis,"  describing  the  re- 
tirement of  Ogier,  with  an  old  comrade,  into  the  abbey  of  St.  Faron,  at 
Meaux,  occurs  in  a  MS.  (Bib.  Nat.  anc.  S.  Germain  des  pres,  Xo.  1607, 
sa?c.  X.  vel  xi.),  printed  in  Acta  SS.  ord.  Benedicti,  by  Achery  and 
Mabillon.  Ogier  is  distinguished  from  the  Lombards  by  the  epithet 
*'  Francus."  In  a  chronicle  published  in  Pertz's  "  Monumenta  Germ." 
(1829,  ii.  p.  214),  St.  Martin's  Abbey,  Cologne,  is  stated  to  have  been 
restored  ''  per  Otgerum  Daniae  ducem,  adjuvante  Karolo  Magno." 
''  Olgerum"  would  seem  to  be  the  reading  in  the  MS.,  Avhich  is  not  later 
than  1050,  and  thus  furnishes  the  earliest  connection  of  the  name  Avith 
Denmark ;  but  it  is  not  quite  impossible  that  such  connection  may  liave 
originated  Avith  some  poet  of  his  OAvn  century.  There  seems  to  haA'e 
been  at  one  time,  at  all  CA^ents,  a  fashion  at  the  court  of  Louis  le  Debon- 
naire  to  derive  the  Franks  in  general  from  the  Danes.  ''  We  must  ad- 
mit, however,  continues  Mr.  Ward,  "  that  it  is  much  more  likely  that 
Ogier's  traditionary  surname  Avas  a  growth  of  the  usual  Avild  kind. 
Barrois,  the  editor  of  the  oldest  version  of  the  Chanson  of  Ogier  (pub- 
lished in  1842),  has  made  out  a  A-ery  plausible  case  in  faA-our  of  his 
theory,  that  tradition  began  Avith  giving  Ogier  lands  in  Ardennes,  and 
calling  the  country  Ardenemarche  and  the  hero  I'Ardenois ;  and  that 
these  names  Avere  afterwards  corrupted  into  Danemarche  and  Danois. 
He  has  certainly  shown  that  in  the  two  MSS.  which  he  has  used,  of  the 
fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries,  the  two  appellations  just  mentioned 
are  interchanged  ;  for  Tierris  d'Ardane  .  .  .  who  is  sometimes  styled 
'  I'Ardenois,'  is  in  one  line  of  the  earlier  MS.  called  '  Ii  Danois  :'  whilst 
Ogier  himself  is  in  one  line  of  the  later  MS.  called  '  I'Ardenois.' " — 
Ward,  Cat.  i.  pp.  604-6.  See  also  Ward,  Cat.  i.  p.  628,  on  the  MS. 
(Royal,  15,  E.  vi.)  of  Simon  de  Pouille,  wherein  Thierri  of  Ardenne  is  in 
one  place  (at  fol.  42,  col.  2,  1.  4)  called  "  le  dannois  "  instead  of  "  I'Ar- 
dennois."     We  may  add  that  it  is  difficult  to  localize  '*  Ardenne  ;"  the 


CH.  IV.]  OGIER    LE    DANOIS.  331 

actually  existed  in  the  ago  of  Charlemagne.  Bartholinus, 
in  his  •'  Dissertatio  Historiea  de  Hnlgero  Dano  qui  Caroli 
magni  tempore  tloruit,"  cites  a  great  mass  of  old  French 
and  German  chronicles  as  authorities  for  his  existence  and 
martial  exploits,  his  being  sent  as  a  hostage  to  Paris,  his 
flight  to  Lombardy,  and  marriage  to  an  English  princess. 
The  traditions  concerning  this  hero  were  probably  first  com- 
municated to  the  French  nation  by  the  Norman  invaders, 
and  were  embodied  in  a  number  of  metrical  romances, 
written  in  the  reign  of  Philip  the  Hardy  (1270-85).  Of 
these  the  longest  is  Les  Enfances  d'Ogier  le  Danois,  which 
was  written  by  Adenez,  or  Adans,  as  he  is  sometimes 
called,  herald  to  Henry  III.,  duke  of  Brabant,^  and  sur- 
named  Eoij,  from  having  been  crowned  in  a  poetical  con- 
test. He  informs  us  that  the  materials  of  his  romance 
were  communicated  to  him  by  a  monk,  called  Savary,  from 
certain  northern  legends  preserved  in  the  abbey  of  St. 
Denis.  This  metrical  work  of  Adenez,  and  others  of  a 
similar  description,  were  the  foundation  of  the  prose 
romance  which  was  formed  not  long  after  the  appearance 

word  occurs  frequently  in  French  topography,  and  was  no  doubt  generic 
{:=?  fori  Stic  r).     Cf.  our  Arden  and  Dean.     See  infra,  p.  3-12. 

"  The  prose  romance,"  wi-ites  Mr.  Ward  (i.  p.  609),  •'  which  was  t'omied 
with  a  few  alterations  from  the  present  version  (of  the  Chanson  de  geste, 
Royal,  15,  E.  vi.),  and  not.  asBrunet  asserts,  from  the  work  of  Adenet  le 
Roi,  was  pubHshed  in  149S,  and  several  times  in  the  sixteenth  i-entmy. 
.  .  .  Remarks  of  great  interest,  by  Paulin  Paris  upon  the  history  of 
Ogier  .  .  .  are  to  be  found  in  Histoire  litteraire,  xx.  (1842),  pp.  6^9-694, 
and  xxii.  (1852),  pp.  643-659,  and  also  in  Les  MSlS.  Fi'ancais  de  la  Biblio- 
thcHiue  du  Koi,  vi.  (1845),  pp.  122-128.  A  critical  notice  of  Ugier  is 
given  by  Gaston  Paris,  Histoire  Poe'tique  de  Charlemagne  (1865),  pp. 
306-313.  L.  Gautier,  in  his  Epopees  Fi'ancaises,  iii.  (ed.  1880),  pp.  52- 
55,  has  published  some  remarks  upon  the  historical  elements  of  the 
Ugier  legend,  and  upon  its  further  development  ;  but  he  has  reserved 
his  biographical  notice  of  the  subject  for  his  sixth  volume,  which  is  to 
deal  with  the  cycle  of  Doon  de  Mayence." 

An  abstract  of  the  romance  is  contained  in  Melanges  tires  d'unc 
Grande  Bibl.,  t.  viii. 

In  Philomena  (see  p.  290)  there  are  two  paladins  named  Ogier.  Auge- 
rius  Danesus  and  Augerius  de  Xomiandia. 

'  ''  Icy  endroit  est  cil  livre  tinez. 

Qui  des  Enfances  d'Ogier  est  apelez  ; 
Ur  vueille  Diex  qu'il  soit  paracbevez, 
En  tel  maniere  qu"estre  n"en  puisse  blamez 
Li  Roy  Adans.  ptu-  ki  il  est  rimez."' 


332  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

of  its  metrical  prototypes.  The  infamoTis  and  traitorous 
character  assigned  in  the  prose  romance  to  the  knights 
temj^lar,  makes  it  probable  that  it  was  written  in  the  time 
of  Philip  the  Fair,  in  whose  reign  that  order  was  suppressed, 
on  account  of  real  or  alleged  enormities. 

Doolin  of  Mayence  had  by  his  wife,  Flandrina,  a  son 
called  G-eoffrey,  Avho  succeeded  to  him  in  the  kingdom  of 
Denmark,  and  Ogier  the  Dane  was  son  to  this  monarch. 

The  fairies,  who  only  act  a  part  in  the  more  recent 
romances  of  the  Round  Table,  appear  in  the  earliest  tales 
relating  to  Charlemagne.  Not  fewer  than  six  of  these 
intermeddling  beings  presided  at  the  birth  of  Ogier.  Five 
of  the  number  bestowed  on  liim  the  most  precious  gifts 
and  accomplishments,  while  Morgane,  the  sister  of  Arthur, 
who  was  the  sixth,  decreed,  that  when  Ogier  had  passed  a 
long  life  of  glory,  he  should  come  to  her  palace  of  Avallon 
in  his  old  age,  and,  laying  his  laurels  at  her  feet,  partake 
with  her  the  enjoyments  of  love  in  the  finest  residence  in 
the  universe. 

Some  disputes  having  arisen  between  the  king  of  Den- 
mark and  Charlemagne,  Ogier,  who  was  now  ten  years  of 
age,  was,  at  the  adjustment  of  differences,  sent  as  a 
hostage  to  Paris,  where  he  was  instructed  in  all  the  accom- 
plishments of  the  time.  At  the  end  of  four  years,  Charle- 
magne, irritated  by  some  new  transgression  of  the  king  of 
Denmark,  banished  Ogier  to  the  castle  of  St.  Omer.  There 
his  confinement  and  exile  were  soothed  by  the  kindness  of 
the  governor,  and  still  more  sweetly  solaced  by  the  atten- 
tions of  his  daughter,  the  beautiful  Bellissande.  Ogier 
seems  to  have  been  on  no  occasion  disposed  to  abide  the 
amorous  old  age  reserved  him  by  decree  of  the  fairies  ;  but 
he  was  unfortunately  withdrawn  from  a  residence  which 
love  had  begun  to  render  delightful,  and  summoned  to 
attend  Charlemagne  to  Italy,  on  an  expedition  against  the 
Saracens.  In  the  romance  there  is  a  long,  but  not  very 
interesting  account,  of  the  services  he  performed  for  Charle- 
magne, and  his  narrow  escapes  from  the  plots  of  Chariot, 
Charlemagne's  unworthy  son,  who  was  envious  of  his  re- 
nown. The  emperor  having  at  length  triumphed  over  all 
his  enemies,  and  re-established  Leo  in  the  pontifical  throne, 
returned  to  France,  accompanied  by  Ogier. 


CH.  IV.]  OGIER    LE    DANOIS.  333 

The  first  intelligence  the  Danish  hero  learned  on  his 
arrival,  was,  that  Bellissande  had  made  him  father  of  a 
son,  and  the  next,  that  he  had  succeeded  to  the  crown  of 
Denmark  by  the  demise  of  his  parents.  He  took  immediate 
possession  of  this  sovereiiinty,  but  after  a  reign  of  some 
years  he  resigned  it,  and  returned  to  France. 

Meanwhile  the  son  of  Ogier  and  Bellissande  had  grown 
up,  and  was  a  deserved  favourite  at  the  court  of  Charle- 
magne. One  day,  having  unfortunately  vanquished  Chariot 
at  a  game  of  chess,  that  prince,  who  was  not  remarkable 
for  his  forbearance,  struck  him  dead  with  the  chess  board. 
The  exasperated  father  of  the  victim  insulted  his  sovereign 
so  grossly  in  consequence  of  this  outrage,  that  he  was 
forced  to  fly  into  Lombardy.  Didier,  king  of  that  country, 
was  then  at  war  with  Charlemagne  ;  but,  spite  of  the 
assistance  of  Ogier,  he  was  worsted  by  the  French  monarch. 
The  Danish  hero  escaped  from  a  castle  in  which  he  was 
besieged,  but  while  asleep  by  the  side  of  a  fountain,  he 
was  taken  captive  by  Archbishop  Turpin.  Ogier  refused 
to  be  reconciled  to  his  sovereign,  unless  the  guilty  Chariot 
was  delivered  up  to  his  vengeance.  These  conditions  were 
complied  with,  but  when  Ogier  was  about  to  strike  off  the 
head  of  the  prince,  his  ann  was  arrested  by  the  voice  of  an 
angel,  commanding  him  to  spare  the  son  of  Charlemagne. 

After  this  interposition,  Ogier  returned  to  his  obedience, 
and  was  soon  after  employed  to  combat  a  Saracen  giant, 
who  had  landed  with  a  great  army  in  France,  but  was 
defeated  and  slain  according  to  the  final  lot  of  all  pagans 
and  giants.  Ogier  received  as  a  reward  the  hand  of  the 
princess  Clarice  of  England.  This  lady  had  followed  her 
father  to  France,  who  came  there  to  do  homage  for  his 
crovm.  She  had  been  intercepted,  however,  and  detained 
by  the  pagans,  from  whom  she  was  rescued  by  the  exer- 
tions of  Ogier,  who,  soon  after  his  union,  passed  over  to 
England,  and  in  right  of  his  wife,  was  there  acknowledged 
as  king:  but,  tired  of  the  enjoyment  of  an  empire  which 
had  been  so  easily  gained,  he  soon  after  set  out  in  quest 
of  new  adventures,  the  account  of  which  forms  the  second 
part  of  the  romance. 

Of  this  division  of  the  work,  a  considerable  portion  is 
occupied  with  the  wars  in  Palestine.     Our  adventurer  sue- 


334  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

cessively  seized  on  Acre,  Jerusalem,  and  Babylon,  of 
wliich  cities  lie  was  declared  king,  but  resigned  tliem  in 
turn  to  -his  kinsmen,  wlio  had  accompanied  him  on  his 
expedition,  and  anew  set  sail  for  France.  For  some  time 
he  enjoyed  a  favourable  breeze,  but  at  length  his  vessel 
was  driven  by  a  tempest  on  a  rock,  to  which  it  became 
immovably  fixed.  In  proportion  as  provisions  failed,  the 
sailors  were  in  turn  thrown  overboard.  'V\nien  all  his  crew 
had  been  thus  disposed  of,  Ogier  landed  and  directed  his 
steps  to  a  castle  of  adamant,  which,  though  invisible 
during  day,  shone  by  night  with  miraculous  splendour. 
His  first  entrance  into  this  mansion  has  a  striking  resem- 
blance to  a  description  in  the  romance  of  Partenopex : 
everything  is  magnificently  arranged,  but  no  person 
apj^ears.  At  length,  having  entered  a  saloon,  he  perceived 
a  repast  prepared,  and  a  horse  ^  seated  at  table,  who,  on 
the  approach  of  Ogier,  instantly  rose,  presented  him  with 
water,  and  then  returned  to  his  chair.  The  hospitable 
quadruped  next  made  signs  to  his  guest  to  partake  of  the 
viands,  but  Ogier,  little  accustomed  to  fellowship  with  such 
hosts,  and  scarce  comprehending  his  imperfect  gesticu- 
lation, left  the  whole  repast  for  behoof  of  the  landlord, 
who,  after  a  plentiful  supper,  conducted  the  stranger  to 
a  magnificent  chamber  j)repared  for  his  repose.  Next 
morning  Ogier  went  abroad,  and  followed  a  path  which 
conducted  him  to  a  delightful  meadow.  "  Welcome,"  said 
the  fairy  Morgana,  who  now  apj^eared  richly  attu'ed,  amidst 
an  assemblage  of  beautiful  nymphs — "welcome  to  the 
palace  of  Avallon,-  where  you  have  been  so  long  ex- 
pected." She  then  re-conducted  him  to  the  palace  of 
adamant ;  but  the  reader  hears  no  more  of  the  horse,  nor 
any  satisfactory  reason  why  he  was  preferred  to  the  office 
of  croujner,  and  selected  to  do  the  honours  of  the  castle, 
for  which  he  must  have  been  but  indifferently  qualified, 
either  by  his  dexterity  in  carving,  or  his  talents  for 
conversation. 

On  his  arrival  at  the  palace.  Morgana  placed  a  ring  on 
the  hand  of  Ogier,  who,  though  at  that  time  upwards  of  a 

^  Named  Papillon  in  the  Metrical  Ogier.  MS.  Brit.  Museum,  Royal, 
15  E.  vi. 

2  See  supra,  pp.  229,  198  notes,  and  Boynania  xii.,  510. 


CH.   IV.]  OGIER    LE    DANOIS.  335 

himdred  years  of  age,  immediately  assumed  the  appear- 
ance of  a  mau  of  thirty.  She  afterwards  fixed  oli  his  brow 
a  golden  crowu,  adorned  with  2>ret'ious  stones,  which  formed 
leaves  of  myrtle  and  of  laurel.  From  this  moment  the 
coui-t  of  Charlemagne  and  its  glories  were  effaced  from 
his  recollection — the  thrones  of  Denmark  and  Palestine 
vanished  from  his  view — Morgana  was  now  the  sole  object 
of  his  devotion.  The  delights  of  her  garden  and  palace 
were  ever  varied  by  magic ;  and,  as  described  in  the  ro- 
mance, remind  us  of  the  illusions  of  Alcina.  The  fairy 
also  introduced  her  lover  to  the  acquaintance  of  her  brother 
Arthur,  who  had  resided  with  her  for  the  last  four  hun- 
dred years.  Oberon,  too,  another  brother  of  Morgana, 
frequently  visited  his  sister,  and  jjlaced  at  her  disposal  a 
troop  of  spirits,  who  assumed  a  variety  of  fonns,  appear- 
ing in  the  shape  of  Lancelot,  Tristan,  or  some  other  knight 
of  the  Round  Table,  who  came  as  if  to  consult  their  sove- 
reign on  the  interpretation  of  the  laws  of  that  celebrated 
institution,  and  to  discourse  with  him  on  their  former 
exploits.  Sometimes  they  were  pleased  to  take  the  figures 
of  giants  and  monsters,  and  in  these  characters  attacked 
the  pavilion  of  the  monarch.  Ogier  and  the  British  king 
were  delighted  with  each  other's  society,  and  were  fre- 
quently engaged  in  joust  and  tournament  with  these 
imaginary  foes.' 

Two  hundred  years  having  elapsed  in  these  amusements, 
the  moment  arrived  at  which  Ogier  was  destined  to  be 
separated  for  a  short  while  from  his  mistress.  The  crown 
of  oblivion  having  been  removed  from  his  brow,  the  glories 
of  his  former  life  burst  on  his  memory,  and  he  suddenly 
departed  -  for  the  coiu't  of  France,  where  he  was  destined 
to  revive,  imder  the  first  of  the  Caj^ets,  that  spirit  of 
chivalry  which  had  simk  under  the  feeble  successors  of 
Charlemagne.  The  romance  describes,  in  a  way  amusing 
enough,  the  astonishment  of  the  courtiers  at  the  appearance 
of  this  celebrated  but  old-fashioned  hero,  and  his  reciprocal 
surprise  at  the  change  that  had  taken  place  in  manners 
and  customs.     France,  and  even  Paris,  were  at  this  time 

'  See  Apjiendix,  No.  15. 

2  Kicling  up:»n  rapillon,  according  to  the  British  Museum,  0?ier. 
f.  152. 


336  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

threatened  by  the  nortliern  nations  who  had  settled  in 
Normandy.  Ogier  was  api3ointed  to  command  an  expedi- 
tion against  them,  and  by  restoring  the  genuine  spirit  of 
chivalry  in  his  army,  entirely  defeated  the  enemy.  After 
his  return  he  assisted  at  the  meetings  of  the  councils ; 
and,  in  the  course  of  a  twelvemonth,  revived  throughout 
the  kingdom  the  vigour  of  the  age  of  Charlemagne. 

As  Ogier  still  bore  the  ring  he  had  received  from 
Morgana,  which  gave  him  the  appearance  of  unfaded 
youth,  he  was  highly  favoured  by  the  ladies  of  the  court. 
The  secret,  however,  had  nearly  transpired  by  means  of 
the  old  countess  of  Senlis,  who,  while  making  love  to 
Ogier,  drew  this  talisman  from  his  hand  and  placed  it  on 
her  own.  She  instantly  blossomed  into  youth,  while  Ogier 
shrunk  into  decrepitude.  The  countess  was  forced  to  give 
back  the  ring,  and  former  appearances  were  restored ;  but, 
as  she  had  discovered  its  value,  she  employed  thirty 
champions  to  regain  it,  all  of  whom  were  successively 
defeated  by  the  knight. 

About  this  time  the  king  of  France  having  died,  the 
c^ueen  wisely  resolved  to  espouse  a  hero,  who,  with  the 
bloom  and  vigour  of  thirty,  possessed  the  experience  of 
three  centuries:  but  while  the  marriage  ceremony  was 
performing,  the  bridegroom  was  suddenly  carried  away  by 
Morgana,  and,  to  the  misfortune  of  chivalry,  has  never 
since  been  heard  of.  The  fairies  of  romance  are  much  in 
the  habit  of  conveying  away  mortals  who  possess  the 
qualities  that  engage  their  affections.  In  the  Arabian 
Nights,  Ahmed,  son  of  the  sultan  of  the  Indies,  is  trans- 
ported to  the  castle  of  the  fairy  Pari  Banou,  who  was 
enamoured  of  him ;  and  in  the  fabliau  of  Lanval,^  the 
knight  of  that  name  was  borne  away,  like  Ogier,  to  Avallon, 
whence  he  has  never  yet  returned. 

Ogier  le  Danois  is  certainly  one  of  the  most  interesting 
stories  of  the  class  to  which  it  belongs,  and  has  accordingly 
gone  through  a  great  number  of  editions,  of  which  the 
earliest  was  printed  at  Paris,  in  folio,  by  Verard,  without 
date,  and  the  next  at  Lyons,  in  1525. 

The  hero  of  this  popular  work  has  been  the  subject  of 

'  In  Legrand  d'Aussj's  collection,  i.  p.  165. 


CH.  IV.]  MEURVIN.  337 

two  romantic  poems  in  Italy,  II  Danese  Uggieri,  and  La 
Morte  del  Danese.  He  is  also  frequently  mentioned  by 
Ariosto  and  Boiardo.  Piilci,  in  his  Morgante  Maggiore, 
alludes  in  a  jocular  manner  to  the  fiction  of  his  long-pro- 
tracted existence  : — 

E  del  Danese  che  ancor  vivo  sia 
Dicono  ak-un  (ma  non  la  Istoria  mia), 
E  che  si  triiova  in  certa  g^otta  oscura, 
E  spesso  armato  a  caval  par  che  stia, 
Si  che  chi  il  Aede  gli  mette  paura. 

Morg.  Mag.  c.  28. 

There  exists  a  romance  which  gives  an  account  of  the 
exploits  of  the  son  of  Ogier  and  Morgane,  called 

Meurvin/ 

from  whom  the  celebrated  Godfrey  of  Bouillon  is  feigned 
to  have  been  descended.  This  work  has  gone  through 
many  editions,  but  seems  totally  uninteresting.  Meurvin 
was  the  father  of  Oriant,  a  progenitor  of  Helias  the  Knight 
of  the  Swan,  whose  daughter  Ida  espoused  Count  Eustace 
of  Boulogne,  great  grandfather  of  Godfrey  de  Bouillon. 
The  novel,  which  was  a  late  composition,  will  be  found 
analvzed  in  the  BibHotheque  des  Eomans,  1778,  Feb.  j^p. 
168-179. 

It  has  already  been  mentioned,  that  Ogier  le  Danois 
was  grandson  of  Doolin  of  Mayence.  Doolin  appears  to 
have  been  the  patriarch  of  chivalrj^ ;  for,  besides  his  eldest 
son  Geoffrey,  the  father  of  Ogier,  he  had  a  child  of  his 
own  name,  who  inherited  the  country  of  Mayence,  and  was 
the  ancestor  of  Gan,  who  acts  so  villainous  a  part  in  the 
Italian  poems.  The  exploits  of  a  third  son  form  the  sub- 
ject of  the  romance  Gerard  d'Euphrate,  which  the  author 
says  he  was  employed  for  thirty  years  in  translating  from 
the  Walloon  rhyme,  and  which  was  published  in  folio, 
1549.  The  scene  of  most  of  the  adventures  is  laid  in  the 
east,  and  the  whole  work  is  very  freely  interspersed  with 
enchantments,  and  the  machinations  of  magicians  and 
fairies,  some  of  whom  were  friendly  and  others  hostile  to 

*  Lhistoire  du  preux  Meuruin  filz  d'Oger  le  dannoys,  lequel  par  sa 
prouesse  conquist  Hierusalem,  Babilune,  etc.    See  Graesse,  ii.  3,  p.  344  ; 
Tressan,  Extr.,  t.  ii.  p.  146-160 ;  Wiener  Jahrb.,  xxxi.  p.  129,  130. 
I.  z 


338  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

Gerard,  the  hero  of  the  romance.  A  fourth  son  of  Doolin 
was  Beuves,  count  of  Aigremont,  who  was  father  of  Yivian 
and  the  Christian  enchanter  Maugis,  the  Malagigi  of 
Ariosto.  Aymon,  count  of  Dordogne,  the  youngest  son  of 
Doohn,  left  a  posterity  still  more  illustrious,  having  been 
the  parent  of  Renaud  de  Montauban  and  his  three  brothers, 
whose  names  suggest  everything  that  is  splendid  and 
romantic  in  poetry  or  fiction. 

There  are  different  French  romances,  both  in  prose  and 
verse,  concerning  the  adventures  and  exploits  of  the  four 
sons  of  Aymon.  In  these  the  same  circumstances  are  fre- 
quently repeated,  which  renders  a  separate  analysis  of  each 
su2:)erfl.uous. 

The  History  of 

Maugis  ' 

and  his  brother  Vivian  derives  considerable  interest  from 
the  novelty  of  the  character  of  its  hero,  and  the  singular 
enchantments  he  employs.  In  his  infancy  Maugis  was 
stolen  by  a  Moorish  slave,  with  the  intention  of  carrying 
him  into  paganism.  He  was  rescued,  however,  by  the 
united  efforts  of  a  lion  and  leopard,  and  was  picked  up  by 
a  benevolent  fairy,  who  was  fortunately  traversing  the 
desert  at  the  moment.  A  dwarf,  whom  the  fairy  kept  in 
pay,  soon  after  acquainted  her  with  the  lineage  of  the 
child.  Having  received  this  information,  she  conferred  on 
him  the  benefits  of  baptism,  and  sent  him  to  her  brother 
to  be  initiated  in  magic,  the  rudiments  of  which  he  acquired 
with  wonderful  facility.  His  first  magical  experiment  was 
of  the  boldest  description, — he  personated  the  devil,  and 
in  that  character  passed  into  the  island  of  Boucault,  where 
he  subdued  and  tamed  the  horse  Bayardo,  an  exploit 
attributed  by  Tasso  to  Rinaldo.     This  unruly  steed  in- 

1  La  tres  playsante  liystoyre  de  Maugist  Daygremont  et  de  Uiuian  son 
frere,  en  laquelle  est  contenu  coment  Maugist  a  layde  de  Oriande  la 
Faee  samye  alia  en  lysle  de  Boucault  ou  il  sehabilla  en  diable.  Et  puis 
commet  il  enchanta  le  deable  Eaouart,  et  occist  le  serpent  qui  gardoit 
la  roche  par  laquelle  chose  il  conquist  le  cheual  Bayard  et  aussi  con- 
questa  le  grant  Geant  Soi-galant. — A.  Loti*ian,  Paris,  4to.  This  is  the 
title  given  by  Brunet,  who  assigns  no  date,  but  considers  that  it  is  later 
than  an  impression  of  the  work  by  J.  Trepperel,  Paris,  noticed  by  several 
bibliographers ;  numerous  subsequent  editions. 


CH.  IV.]  MAUGIS.  339 

habited  a  cavern  -which  was  guarded  bv  a  horrible  dragon, 
and  was  in  the  vicinity  of  a  volcano  which  formed  one  of 
the  principal  mouths  of  hell.  There  is  a  striking  resem- 
blance between  this  adventure  and  the  eastern  story  of  the 
Rakshe,  a  winged  horse,  which  rendered  the  Dry  island 
uninhabitable  until  he  was  subdued  by  Housheng,  king  of 
Persia,  who  tamed  and  mounted  him  in  all  his  wars  with 
the  Dives. ^  Maugis  having  signalized  himself  by  the  con- 
quest of  Bayardo,  was  admitted  to  the  necromantic  univer- 
sity of  Toledo,  where  he  completed  his  studies,  and,  ac- 
cording to  some  accounts,  held  the  professor  of  magic's 
chair  in  that  city,  which  was  distinguished  as  a  school  for 
the  mysteries  of  the  black  art : — 

The  city  of  Toledo  erst 
Fostered  the  lore  of  necromancy, 
Professors  there,  in  magic  versed, 
From  public  chair  taught  pyromancy, 
Or  geomancy ;  or  rehearsed 
Exjieriments  in  hjdromancj.^ 

Having  perfected  himself  in  the  mysteries  of  magic,  the 
enchanter  assisted  Marsirius,  king  of  Spain,  in  his  wars 

^  Liebrecht  enumerates  the  following  notices  of  winged  horses,  etc. : 
Ersch  and  Grubers  '•  Encyclopaedia,"'  sub.  voc.  Huschenck ;  Loiseleur 
Deslongchamps,  Fabl.  Indiennes,  p.  35,  n.  2  ;  Schmidt's  notes  to  Strapa- 
rola,  p.  269,  etc.  ;  Grimm's  "  Teutonic  Mythology,"  English  ed.,  p.  392 ; 
Graesse's  "  Sagenkreise,"  p.  191,  etc.  ;  Dissertation  upon  Fortunatus. 
This  tale  is,  perhaps,  of  Indian  origin,  cf.  Germania,  vol.  ii.  p.  265,  etc. 
Klettke's  ''  Marchensaal,"  od.  iii.  p.  4.  As  for  the  horse  Bayard,  in  its 
supernatural  pedigree,  its  fidelity,  its  prospect  of  perishing  by  water, 
and  the  yearly  neighing  and  turmoil  in  the  forest  (in  the  Quatre  fils 
Aymon,  see  Grimm,  ubi  supra),  bears  a  remarkable  resemblance  to 
Graelent's  horse  in  the  poems  of  Marie  de  France  (i.  549,  etc.),  which 
idea  is  again  borrowed  from  a  Breton  legend.  See  Villemarque,  Barzaz- 
breiz,  vol.  i.  No.  6,  and  p.  31,  English  version  by  Tom  Taylor,  Ballads 
and  Songs  of  Brittany,  p.  31,  etc. — Lieb. 

^  "  Questa  citta  di  Tolletto  solea, 

Tenere  studio  di  Negromanzia, 
Quivi  di  magica  arte  si  leggea 
Publicamente,  et  di  Piromanzia  ; 
E  molti  Geomanti  sempre  avea 
E  sperimcnti  assai  de  llidromanzia." 

Pulci's  "  Morg.  Mag."  c.  25. 

Not  only  Toledo,  but  also  Salamanca,  and  in  Italy  the  schools  on  the 
banks  of  the  Lacus  Nursinus  and  in  the   Spelseura  Visignianum  were 


340  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV, 

with  the  Amiral  of  Persia,  and  availed  himself  of  his  in- 
cantations to  forward  and  conceal  his  own  intrigue  with 
the  queen.  He  also  aided  Arnaud  of  Montcler  in  his  con-^ 
test  with  Charlemagne,  deceiving  the  enemy  by  fascinating^ 
their  eyes,  or  entering  the  hostile  camp  in  various  disguises, 
after  the  manner  of  Merlin. 

The  story  of  the  enchantments  and  amours  of  Maugis  is 
prosecuted  in 

The  Conquest  op  Trebizond,  by  Einaldo.^ 

This  romance  oj^ens  with  an  account  of  a  magnificent 
tournament  proclaimed  by  Charlemagne,  to  which  Einaldo 
comes  incognito,  and  bears  away  all  the  honour  and  prizes. 
At  length  the  ceremony  is  interrupted  by  an  embassy  from 
the  king  of  Cappadocia,  announcing  his  intentions  of  em- 
barking for  France  in  order  to  joust  with  all  the  knights 
of  Charlemagne.  Einaldo,  however,  anticipates  his  design, 
and  having  landed  in  Cappadocia,  overthrows  and  deposes 
its  monarch.  Maugis,  who  had  accompanied  Einaldo, 
meanwhile  engaged  in  an  intrigue  with  the  daughter 
of  the  king  of  Cyprus.  His  amour  was  detected  by  a, 
dwarf,  who  revealed  it  to  the  king.  It  is  true  the  princess 
burnt  the  dwarf,  but  this  could  not  prevent  her  father 
from  besieging  Maugis  in  a  citadel  into  which  he  had 
thrown  himself.  The  emperor  of  Trebizond  aided  the 
king  of  Cyprus,  and  Einaldo  came  to  the  assistance  of 
Maugis.  The  allied  monarchs  were  defeated  and  slain  in 
a  great  battle,  after  which  Einaldo  was  elected  by  the  army 
emperor  of  Trebizond.  This  romance  is  the  foundation 
of  the  Italian  poem  entitled  "  Trabisonda,  nel  quale  si  tratta* 
nobillissime  battaglie  con  la  vita  e  morte  de  Einaldo." 

celebrated  for  (natural?)  magic.  See  Delrio,  Disquis.  Magicse,  1.  iu 
qu.  i.  p.  110,  ed.  Colon.  1657,  also  Cracow  ;  see  Scheible's  "  Kloster,"  v. 

114.— LlEB. 

'  SEnsuyt  la  coqueste  du  trespuissant  empire  de  Tresbisonde,  et  de 
la  spacieuse  Asie.  En  laquelle  sont  coprinses  plusieurs  batailles  tant 
par  mer  que  par  terre.  Ensemble  maintes  triumphantes  entrees  de  villes 
&  prinses  d'icelles  decorees  par  stille  poetique  et  descriptions  de  pays 
avec  plusieurs  comptes  damours  qui  iusques  cy  nont  este  veuz, — Paris,, 
without  date,  4to. 


ch.  iv.]  four  sons  of  aymon.  341 

Four  Sons  of  Aymon  ^ 

is  a  romance  of  which  there  are  several  variants,  and  which 
has  crrown  out  of  the  Cantilcnes  or  popular  ballads  which 
commemorated  for  many  succeeding  generations  the 
struggles  of  Charles  the  Bald  with  his  feudatories. 

Charlemagne,  irritated  by  the  refusal  of  Beuves  d' Aigre- 
mont  to  attend  his  Cour  plenicre,  is  further  exasperated 
by  the  execution  of  the  ambassador  he  had  sent  to  the 
knight,  and  proceeds  to  war  against  the  four  sons  of  Ay- 
mon of  Dordogne,  Renaud,  Allard,  Guichard,  and  Richard, 
and  their  cousin  the  magician  Maugis,  in  consequence  of 
their  abstention  from  hostilities  against  their  relative 
Beuves,  who,  after  a  brief  struggle,  surrenders  and  is  par- 
doned. Ganelon,  a  favourite  of  Charlemagne,  is,  however, 
resolved  on  the  ruin  of  Beuves,  whom  he  accuses  of  con- 
spiring to  kidnap  the  emperor.  The  latter  commissions 
him  merely  to  keep  a  watch  upon  d'Aigremont  with  400 
men.  He  musters,  instead,  4,000  men,  wounds  the  duke. 
Beuves,  and  then  treacherously  assassinates  him,  and  thus 
in  his  name  bequeaths  to  future  romance  a  synonym  for 
treason. 

Upon  the  refusal  of  Charlemagne  to  accord  reparation 
for  this  perfidy,  and  his  condonation  of  G-anelon's  action, 
the  victim's  brother  Aymon  and  his  son  Renaud  declare 
themselves  absolved  from  their  fealty  to  the  emperor,  and 
Renaud,  with  an  ominous  partiality,  displayed  more  than 
once,  for  the  game  of  chess,  engages  in  that  intellectual 
recreation  with  the  emperor's  nephew  Berthelot.  Rallied 
by  this  player  upon  his  distraction,  Renaud  strikes  him 
dead  with  a  blow  of  the  golden  chessboard.      The  emperor 

^  Quatre  fils  Aymon,  Paris,  1525,  folio.  For  theabo\e  brief  abstract 
I  am  gratefully  indebted  to  M.  Charles  Grellet  Balguerie,  author  of 
Tarious  learned  researches  into  the  earlier  history  of  Aquitaine, 
who  is  at  present  engaged  upon  a  historical  investigation  dealing  with 
the  Romance  of  the  Sons  of  Aimon,  the  scene  of  which,  really  the 
south  of  France,  had  been  supposed  to  be  in  the  northern  Ardennes. 
lie  identifies  Aimon  with  Aimon  II.,  Count  of  Ferigord,  who  maintained 
a  struggle  with  Charles  le  Chauve,  who  here,  as  in  other  romances,  is 
represented  by  the  Charlemagne  of  song  and  story.  The  aper^u  of  his 
forthcoming  book,  with  which  M.  Grellet  Balguerie  has  so  kindly 
favoured  me,  is  too  long  and  elaborate  to  admit  of  its  insertion  in 
-extenso  in  the  present  work.     See  Appendix,  No.  16. 


342  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

orders  his  arrest,  "but  his  escape  is  secured  by  his  brothers 
and  Maugis,  who  afterwards  rejoin  him,  and  the  fugitives 
are  pursued  by  2,000  horsemen.  The  foremost  three  of 
these  are  killed  by  Eenaud,  who  thus  provides  mounts  for 
his  brothers,  while  the  magical  steed  Bayard,^  who  tra- 
verses ten  leagues  at  a  stretch,  proves  equal  to  the  trans- 
port of  both  Eenaud  and  Maugis. 

Charlemagne  exacts  an  oath  from  Aymon  that  he  will 
afford  no  aid  to  his  sons,  and  the  latter  having  pushed  on 
to  the  vicinity  of  the  paternal  demesne  of  Dordogne,  the 
duchess  Aye,^  their  mother,  desirous  to  avoid  all  suspicion 
of  complicity,  induces  them  to  withdraw  by  promising  them 
as  much  gold  as  they  desire.  They  retire  to  a  forest — 
Ardenne  ^ — where  in  the  valley  of  fairies,  iipon  an  escarped 
rock  commanding  the  Meuse,^  they  constructed  the  re- 
doubtable fortress  of  Montfort.^ 

Here  they  are  beleaguered  by  Charlemagne,  but  Ee- 
naud performing  prodigies  of  valour,  breaks  a  passage 
►  through  the  expanded  ranks  of  the  besiegers,  cutting  the 
enemy  down  like  corn,  and  after  a  sanguinary  defeat 
Charlemagne  is  compelled  to  retire.    Eenaud  re-enters  the 

'  This  most  intelligent  and  illustrious  steed  of  chivalry  plays  a  con- 
spicuous part  throughout  the  romance.  He  and  the  sword  Floberge  were 
presented  to  Renaud  by  the  magician  Maugis.  Bayard  performs  good 
service  by  his  swiftness,  by  giving  the  alarm  by  neighing  or  beating 
Eenaud's  shield  with  his  hoofs  on  emergencies.  He  plays  a  prominent 
role  in  a  curious  racing  episode.  Charlemagne,  desirous  of  securing  a 
good  charger  for  Roland,  institutes  a  race.  Near  the  goal  are  displayed 
the  various  prizes,  including  the  imperial  crown  itself.  The  winner,  how- 
ever, is  to  be  given  to  Roland.  Maugis,  versed  besides  other  arts,  in 
turfish  tricks,  dyes  the  black  Bayard  white.  Thus  disguised  he  wins  the 
race,  jockeyed  by  Eenaud,  also  disguised,  who  rides  off  with  all  the 
prizes,  vainly  pursued  by  the  emperor's  horsemen.  Bayard's  white  coat 
dissolves  and  he  is  recognized,  and  Renaud  avows  his  identity,  but  makes 
good  his  escape  on  the  fleet  and  faithful  steed. 

^  An  Aga  or  Aya  was  the  wife  of  Aymon  I.,  Comte  de  Pei'igueux,  at 
some  time  subsequent  to  780. 

^  A  generic  appellation  applied  to  many  forests. 

*  Or  rather  the  Dordogne,  Meuse  having  been  doubtless  substituted 
by  a  confusicm  arising  from  the  word  Ardenne.  M.  Rajna,  however, 
(Origini  dell'  epopea  francese,  Firenze,  1884,)  connects  Renaud  with 
Dortmund,  and  in  general  maintains  the  Germanic  origin  of  the  French 
traditions,  in  which  he  is  in  the  main  supported  by  Gaston  Paris,  see 
Romania,  No.  52. 

^  The  imposing  ruins  of  which  may  still  be  seen  overhanging  the- 
Dordogne. 


CH.  IV.]  FOUR    SONS    OF    AYMON.  343 

stron2:hold,  although  pursued  by  his  father  Aymon,  whom 
he  will  ouly  oppose  so  far  as  to  kill  his  horse. 

The  castle  of  Moutfort  succumbs,  nevertheless,  after  a 
year's  siege,  but  only  through  treachery,  in  which  Charle- 
magne participates,  and  Renaud  and  his  brothers  are 
reduced  to  the  condition  of  outcast  fugitives.  Aided, 
however,  by  the  supplies  of  their  mother  and  the  resources 
of  Maugis,  and  after  abundant  vicissitudes  and  adventures, 
in  which  Bayard  plays  no  insignificant  part,  they  erect  the 
city  and  fortress  of  Montauban  near  the  confluence  of  the 
Dordogne  and  Gironde.  Here  they  are  again  besieged  by 
Charlemagne,  but  in  the  absence  of  the  latter' s  commander- 
in-chief  Roland,  Renaud  sallies  out,  and  after  carrying 
havoc  into  the  investing  host,  captures  the  dragon  which 
floats  over  the  tent  of  Roland  and  hoists  it  on  the  highest 
tower  of  Montauban.  The  brave  garrison  is  subsequently 
betrayed  into  an  ambuscade  by  Yon  (or  Sancion),  King  of 
G-ascony.^ 

Maugis,  however,  borne  by  the  fleet  and  faithful  Bayard, 
comes  to  the  rescue,  and  a  sanguinary  struggle  ensues  in 
which  Richard  was  so  grievously  wounded  in  the  abdomen 
that,  in  order  to  ply  his  antagonist,  he  was  obliged  to 
maintain  his  extruding  intestines  with  his  left  hand."  He  is 
afterwards  healed  by  Maugis,  his  cousin,  and  they  return 
in  triumph  to  Montauban. 

At  length  his  generalissimo  Roland,  Oger,  and  others, 
implore  Charlemagne  to  pardon  Aymon's  sons  and  Maugis, 
and,  as  they  threaten  defection,  he  accedes  to  their  prayer 
on  condition  that  Renaud's  children  be  hostages,  that 
Renaud  betake  himself  to  Palestine  to  fight  the  Saracens, 
and  that  he  surrender  Bayard.  Renaud  agrees,  and  after 
embracing  his  well-tried  friend  Bayard,  ,  transfers  him 
to  the  emperor.  But  the  faithful  charger  will  allow  none  to 
mount  him.  Tlie  emperor  causes  him  to  be  weighted  with 
stones  and  thrown  into  the  river ;  he  succeeds,  however,  in 
disengaging  himself  and  gaining  the  opposite  bank.     Re- 

'  Identified,  by  M.  Longnon,  with  Eudon,  Duke  of  Aquitaine  in  the 
eighth  century,  and,  conse(iuently,  Charles  with  Charles  Martel. 
Komania,  lii.,  p.  610. 

^  A  song  still  popular  in  the  south  of  France,  and  particularly  in  the 
d^partements  of  Gers  and  Lot,  celebrates  this  memorable  feat,  attributing 
it,  however,  to  Renaud.     See  Appendix,  No.  16. 


344  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

naud  continues  his  feats  of  prodigious  valour  in  Palestine, 
but  refuses  the  kingship  in  favour  of  Grodfrey  of  Bouillon, 
and  returns  to  his  native  country.  He  finds  his  wife 
Clarissa,  like  Penelope,  importuned  by  suitors,  had  died  of 
grief  at  his  supposed  death,  and  Eenaud,  like  so  many  of 
the  figures  of  chivalrous  romance,  elects  to  finish  his  days 
as  a  hermit ;  but,  for  the  sake  of  occasional  exercise,  hired 
himself  out  as  a  mason.  His  piety  drew  on  him  the  hatred 
of  his  fellow  labourers,  and  one  day,  while  he  was  praying 
at  the  bottom  of  the  wall  of  a  church  which  they  were 
building,  they  threw  on  his  head  an  enormous  stone,  by 
which  he  was  slain  before  he  had  completed  his  devotions. 
The  concluding  scenes  of  the  life  of  Maugis  are  exhibited 
in  the  Chronicle  of 

Mabrian.^ 

Like  his  cousin  Einaldo,  this  enchanter  had  retired  to  a 
hermitage ;  he  emerges,  however,  from  this  seclusion,  and 
repairs  to  Eome,  where  he  attracts  so  much  notice  by  his 
eloquence  and  the  sanctity  of  his  manners,  that  on  the 
death  of  Leo  he  is  raised  to  the  pontifical  chair.  He  soon, 
however,  abdicates  his  new-acquired  dignity,  and  again 
betakes  himself  to  the  hermitage.  About  this  time 
E-ichardette,  the  youngest  brother  of  Rinaldo,  was  assassi- 
nated by  the  treachery  of  Gano,  or  Granelon.  Alard  and 
G-uichard,  his  two  surviving  brothers,  suspecting  that  the 
crime  had  been  committed  by  the  command,  or  with  the 
connivance,  of  Charlemagne,  publicly  insult  their  sovereign, 
and  after  this  imprudence  fly  for  refuge  to  the  hermitage  of 
Maugis.  The  emperor  having  discovered  the  place  of  their 
retreat,  kindled  faggots  at  the  entrance  of  the  cavern,  and 
smoked  the  heroes  to  death. 

There  also  exists  a  French  romance  concerning  Charle- 
magne and  the  family  of  Aymon,  entitled 

^  Histoire  singuliere  &  fort  recreatiue  Cotenat  la  (sic)  reste  des  faitz 
&  Gestes  des  quatre  filz  Aymon,  Regnault,  Allard,  Guichard,  et  le  petit 
Richard.  Et  de  leur  cousin  le  subtil  Maugis  .  .  .  Semblablement  la 
cronieque  et  hystoire  .  .  .  du  cheualeureux  .  .  .  price  Mabrian  roy  de 
Hierusalera  .  .  .  le  tout  traduict  de  vieil  lagaige  en  vulgaire  francoys. — 
J.  Nyverd,  Paris,  without  date,  fol.,  numerous  editions.  See  Schmidt, 
Wiener  Jahrb.,  xxxi.  p.  113  ;  Abstract,  in  Bibl.  des  Roms.,  1778,  July, 
pp.  102-159  ;  Graesse,  iii.  3,  p.  337-342. 


CH.  IV.1  MORGANT  LE  GEANT.  345 


MORGANT  LE  GeANT/ 

the  incidents  of  which  correspond  precisely  with  those  of 
the  Morgante  Maggiore  of  Pulei.  It  is  probable,  however, 
that  the  romance  was  translated  from  the  poem,  as  it  was 
not  customary  with  the  Italians  to  versify  so  closely  the 
lying  productions  of  preceding  fablers.^ 

^  Histoire  de  Morgant  le  geant  lequel  avec  ses  frercs  persecutoient 
toujours  les  chrestienset  serviteurs  de  Dieu.  Mais  finablement  furent  ces 
deux  freres  occis  par  le  conte  Koland,  etc. — A.  Lotrian,  Paris,  no  date. 
There  was  an  edition  before  this,  in  1519.  Pulci's  work  is  a  rifacimento 
of  a  poem  of  the  fourteenth  century.     See  Eomania,  lii.  p.  599. 

-  With  the  class  of  romances  relating  to  Charlemagne  we  may  range 
the  well-known  stoi-y  of  Valentine  and  Orson,  which  was  written  during 
the  reign  of  Charles  VIII.,  and  was  first  printed  in  1495,  at  Lyons,  in 
folio. 

There  are  a  few  romances  of  chivalry  concerning  French  knights 
which  cannot  properly  be  classed  among  those  connected  with  Charle- 
magne and  his  paladins.  Of  these  the  only  one  worth  mentioning  is  Le 
Petit  Jehan  de  Saintre,  which  was  composed  in  the  middle  of  the 
fifteenth  century  by  Anthony  de  la  Sale,  a  Burgundian  author,  and 
printed  in  1517  and  1723.  Tressan  says,  that  this  work  gives  a  great 
deal  of  insight  into  the  manners  of  the  age  and  customs  of  the  French 
court ;  in  short,  that  it  may  be  considered  as  the  most  national  of  all 
the  French  romances.  "I  have  not  seen,"  says  Warton,  "  any  French 
romance  which  has  preserved  the  practices  of  chivalry  more  copiously 
than  this  of  Saintre.  It  must  have  been  an  absolute  mastei-piece  for  the 
rules  of  tilting,  martial  customs,  and  public  ceremonies  prevailing  in 
its  author's  age." — Warton's  "  Hist,  of  Eng.  Poet.,"  1871,  vol.  ii.  p.  292. 

Baudouin,  or  Baldwin,  count  of  Flanders,  is  the  hero  of  another 
romance  printed  at  Lyons  in  147S  and  1509,  at  Chambery  in  1484,  and 
aeveral  times  at  Paris,  which  may  be  here  mentioned.  This  count  is  re- 
presented as  inflamed  with  such  excessive  pride,  that  he  refused  the 
daughter  of  the  king  of  France  in  marriage.  One  day,  while  hunting  in 
a  forest,  he  met  a  lady  of  majestic  stature,  arrayed  in  magnificent  attire, 
who  accosted  him,  and  declared  that  she  was  the  heiress  of  a  splendid 
throne  in  Asia;  but  that  she  had  fled  from  the  court  of  her  father  to 
avoid  a  marriage  which  was  disagreeable  to  her.  The  count,  incited  by 
love  and  ambition,  espoused  her  and  carried  her  to  the  Fi'cnch  court. 
When  a  year  had  elapsed,  the  Asiatic  princess  brought  him  two  beautiful 
daughters  ;  yet  Baldwin,  though  in  the  enjoyment  of  great  domestic 
felicity,  awaited  with  much  impatience  the  return  of  a  courier  he  had 
despatched  to  the  dominions  of  his  royal  father-in  law.  Meanwhile  a 
hermit  having  obtained  admittance  to  the  presence  of  the  count,  ex- 
pressed his  doubts  as  to  the  existence  of  this  Asiatic  empire,  and  con- 
cluded with  begging  leave  to  dine  in  company  with  the  princess.  The 
request  being  complied  with,  when  the  other  guests  are  seated  at  table 
the  hermit  enters  the  apartment,  and,  without  farther  exordium,  com- 


346  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

The  romance  of 

Berinus  ^ 

enjoyed  considerable  popularity.  Fannus,  who,  "  as  Mar- 
tianlx  says,"  resided  outside  the  walls  of  Rome,  had  a  son 
named  Berinus  (iii.)-  His  wife,  Agea,  shortly  after  died,  and 

mands  the  landlady  to  return  to  the  hell  whence  she  had  originally 
issued.  This  mode  of  address,  which  unfortunately  none  of  the  count's 
visitors  had  hitherto  thought  of  employing  at  his  board,  has  the  desired 
effect  on  the  hostess,  who  vanishes  with  hideous  yells,  but  not  without 
doing  irreparable  damage  both  to  the  dwelling  and  the  dinner. 

The  fact  is,  that  Baldwin,  as  a  punishment  for  his  pride,  had  been  un- 
wittingly married  to  the  devil.  The  remainder  of  the  romance  is  occu- 
pied with  a  crusade  performed  by  the  husband,  as  an  expiation  for  this 
unfortunate  connection,  and  with  the  adventures  of  liis  two  daughters, 
who  turn  out  better  than  could  have  been  anticipated  from  their  diabo- 
lical descent.  Van  Hasselt  has  given  a  notice  of  the  romance  of  Bau- 
douin  in  the  Indtpendant  du  28  Nov.,  1836,  and  in  the  Ecviie  de 
Bruxelles,  Aout,  1837. 

Unions  of  the  description  formed  in  this  romance  were  not  only 
common  fictions,  but  were  credited  by  the  vulgar.  It  was  at  one  time 
generally  believed  that  an  ancestor  of  Geoffrey  of  Plantagenet  had 
espoused  a  demon,  and  from  this  alliance  Fordun  accounts  for  the  pro- 
fligacy of  King  John.  Andrew  of  Wyntoun,  in  his  Orygynaie  Cronykil 
of  Scotland,  attributes  a  similar  origin  to  Macbeth ;  and  a  story  founded 
on  this  species  of  connection  is  related  as  a  fact  in  the  thirty-fifth  chapter 
of  Luther's  "  Colloquia  Mensalia."  In  the  same  connection  may  be  cited 
Caesarius  Heisterbach,  Mirac.  et  His.,  iii.  c.  10,  11,  cf.  12,  the  History 
of  St.  Macai-ius,  as  also  the  legend  of  the  demoniacal  descent  of  Eleanor  of 
Aquitaine  (consort  of  Louis  VII.  of  France,  and  afterwards  of  Henry  II. 
of  England).  See  also  Eeiffenbergon  Philip  Mouskes,  vol.  ii.  p.  Ixviii.  j 
Wolf,  Niedei'landische  Sagen,  No.  183,  and  Tannhauser  in  Grimm's  Teu- 
tonic Mythology  (English  ed.,  p.  935),  and  Gi-aesse,  Sage  vom  Ritter 
Tannhauser,  Dresden,  1846;  further,  the  sagaof  Astrolabius,inthe  Kaiser- 
chronik,  verse  13,117,  etc.,  which  again  manifests  a  connection  with  the 
legend  of  Charlemagne's  magic  ring  (Grimm,  Deutsche  Sagen,  No.  453, 
Eng.  ed.),  and  Von  der  Hagen's  "  Gesammtabenteuer,"  Band.  iii.  p. 
clxii.,  etc.,  Nos.  98  and  99  ;  but  see  Massmann  on  the  lines  above  speci- 
fied of  the  Kaiser  Kronik.  See  also  notes  to  p.  146  supra,  and  the  account 
of  Merlin's  birth,  etc. 

Hemricourt,  Miroir  des  Nobles  de  la  Hesbaye,  ed.  Salbray,  p.  139, 
relates  how  the  young  knight,  Ameil-a-l'Oeil  de  Lerhy,  afforded  a 
night's  pi'otection  to  a  beautiful  young  damsel,  who  professed  to  be  a 
pilgrim  to  the  Holy  Land,  but  acquainted  her  amorous  host  next  morn- 
ing with  her  real  nature,  and  vanished,  leaving  him  blind  of  one  eye  for 
life. — LiEB. 

This  superstition,  indeed,  appears  to  have  existed  in  all  ages  and  coun- 


Le  Cheualier  Berinus,  etc.     See  App.  No.  1 ! 


CH.  IV.]  BERINUS.  347 

Fannus  re-married  Eaine  (vii.),  who  prejudiced  her  hus- 
band against  her  stepson.  The  latter  obtained  from  his 
father  live  ships  of  merchandise  (vi.),  and  settled  in 
Blandie  (vii.),  where  one  of  his  first  feats  was  to  cheat  his 
host  at  chess  (viii.).  He  was  befriended  by  a  certain 
Geoffroj,  who  pleaded  his  cause  before  the  Seneschal  (xxiii.), 
and  he  was  brought  to  the  palace  to  King  Isopes.  Meanwhile 
Gianor,  with  a  bevy  of  ladies,  arrives  at  Blandie  (xxvi.),  and 
Mirames  married  Agriano's  sister,  Giganio  (xxvii.).  Thus 
fortified  himself,  he  proceeds  to  repair  the  fortresses  of 

ti'ies.  and  seems  one  of  the  most  prevalent  to  which  mankind  have  been 
addicted.  The  Jewish  Kabbis  believed  in  an  intercourse  between  the  fallen 
angels  and  daughters  of  the  children  of  men  ;  in  particular,  they  believed 
that  Cain  w  as  the  progeny  of  the  devil,  having  been  the  offspring  of  the 
woman  and  the  serpent.  The  marriage,  however,  of  Baldwin,  count  of 
Flanders,  above  related,  and  other  uni(»nsof  a  similar  description,  seem  to 
have  been  suggested  by  the  story  of  Menippus,  in  Fhilostratus'  Life  of 
Apollonius  of  Tyana.  A  young  man,  called  Menippus,  while  travelling  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Corinth,  was  accosted  by  a  beautiful  woman,  who 
said  she  was  a  Phoenician,  and  avowed  she  was  captivated  with  his  love. 
She  assured  him  that  she  was  possessed  of  ample  revenues,  and  was 
proprietor  of  a  magnificent  palace  in  the  vicinity  of  Corinth,  where  they 
might  reside  in  the  indulgence  of  every  imaginable  luxury  and  pleasure. 
Menippus  went  with  her  to  this  abode  in  the  evening,  continued  for 
some  time  to  frequent  her  society,  and  at  length  fixed  on  a  day  for  the 
celebration  of  the  nuptial  ceremony.  Meanwhile  the  philosopher  Appol- 
lonius,  remarking  some  peculiarities  in  the  aspect  of  Menippus,  thus 
addressed  him  :  "  I  pei-ceive  plainly,  O  Menippus,  that  you  harbour  or 
are  harboured  by  a  serpent."  Menippus  replied,  that  serpent  or  not,  he 
was  to  espouse  her  on  the  morrow.  Apollonius  invited  himself  to  the 
nuptial  banquet :  during  the  entertainment  he  positively  declared  the 
golden  vessels,  precious  furniture,  and  delicious  viands  to  be  accursed 
delusion  and  phantom,  and  he  denounced  the  lady  as  a  Lamia,  who  de- 
voured those  whom  she  attracted  by  her  charms.  The  bride  entreated 
him  to  change  the  subject  of  conversation,  but  Apollonius  persisting  in 
his  invective,  she  in  turn  began  to  revile  the  philosophers  and  sophists. 
Meanwhile  the  furniture  was  disappearing,  and  the  viands  were  per- 
ceptibly melting  away,  on  which  the  bride  burst  into  tears,  and  begged 
to  be  excused  from  revealing  her  name  and  lineage.  The  philosopher, 
however,  whom  she  had  irritated  by  her  rash  attack  on  the  sophists, 
was  inexorable,  and  would  not  be  satisfied  till  she  explicitly  confessed 
that  she  was,  in  truth,  a  confirmed  Lamia,  who  had  inveigled  ^lenippus 
merely  for  the  pleasure  of  devouring  him,  a  privilege  she  would  have 
enjoyed  as  soon  as  the  nuptial  ceremony  was  completed.  She  farther 
admitted,  that  she  was  much  in  the  use  of  this  practice,  which  gave  her 
special  delight.  Menippus  was  a  good  deal  surprised,  thanked  Appol- 
lonius  for  this  deliverance,  and  became  in  future  more  circumspect  in  his 
amours. 


348  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

Blaudie,  wliich  he  had  conquered,  and  neglected  to  pay 
tribute  (truage)  to  Agrian  (xxx.). 

The  king  Isopes  offers  Berinus  his  niece  Clepatras  in 
marriage  (xli.).  ^The  barons  of  Blandie  sent  word  to 
Logres,  a  rival  suitor,  of  this  news  (xlii.),  who  in  conse- 
quence arrived  at  Blandie,  but  is  conquered  by  Beri- 
nus (Iv.),  who  is  in  consequence  led  in  triumph  through 
the  city  in  a  robe  of  cloth  of  gold,  after  which  the  nuptials 
took  place  (Ixi.).  The  union  resulted  in  a  son  and  a 
daughter,  Aigres  and  Eonimaine.  Isopes  died,  and  the 
barons  sent  to  search  out  Logres  to  make  him  king  (Ixiv.). 
Berinus  and  his  family  were  brought  "  vitupereusement " 
to  Logres  (Ixvi.)  by  traitors  whom  Logres  to  their  great 
surprise  hung  (Ixvii.).  Berinus,  however,  who  seems  to 
have  been  incurably  addicted  to  yachting,  was  drawn  to 
the  rock  of  Adamant  (Ixx.),  upon  which  they  at  once  pro- 
ceed to  begin  deep  mourning  (Ixxi.).  It  was  decided  by 
lot  that  Aigres  should  remain  here  (Ixxii.)  while  the  rest 
departed  to  Rome,  where  Berinus  found  his  old  master 
Geoff roy.  The  experiences  of  Berinus  on  the  rock  were  of  the 
most  variegated — visions,  phantoms,  robbers.  The  latter 
he  killed  and  routed  (Ixxix.),  but  retained  their  servant  for 
his  own  use,  which  servant  showed  him  their  treasures. 
Aigres  conquered  the  king  Danemont,  and  converted  him, 
by  this  unusual  means  securing  his  friendship  (Ixxxi.). 
Aigres  found  diplomatic  service  in  a  mission  to  demand  of 
king  Absalon  his  daughter  for  the  hand  of  King  Holo- 
femes  (Ixxxiii.  and  Ixxxiiii.)  ;  he  was  however  imprisoned 
with  lions,  which  he  slew  unaided,  an  exploit  which  was 
reported  by  the  seneschal  Maugis  to  the  king. 

Absalon  announces  he  will  only  bestow  his  daughter  upon 
him  who  can  overcome  two  marvellous  lions  (Ixxxvii.). 
Aigres  kills  the  animals  (Ixxxviii.),  and  marries  Melia,  the 
princess,  but  his  disloyal  companion  Accars  thrusts  him 
into  a  well,  and  abducts  Melia ;  she  was  shortly  seized,  how- 
ever, by  a  king  Abilaus.  Aigres  conquered  Abilaus  and 
took  off  Melia  (xciiii.).  Aigres,  with  his  horse  Moreau,  re- 
turns at  length  to  his  father  Berinus. 

The  latter  portion  of  the  romance  recounts  the  robbery  of 
the  treasury  of  the  emperor  (cxiii.  etc.),  which  is  a  version 
of  the  Ehampsinitus  story  in  Herodotus  (ii.  121).     Aigres 


CH.  IV.]  BERINUS.  349 

cuts  off  his  father's  heaxi  to  prevent  his  recognition  (cxix., 
cxx.),  and  meeting  a  knight  on  his  return  kills  him  to 
avoid  detection  (cxx.). 

The  Seven  Sages  (among  whom  Cicero)  advise  that  the 
trunk  of  Berinus  should  be  drawn  through  Rome  (cxxv.). 
Aigres,  however,  takes  down  the  body  to  a  hermit  for  se- 
pulture, whom  he  pays  for  prayers  (cxxxiii.)  The  emperor 
sends  for  the  Seven  Sages,  who  had  failed  in  the  recovery 
of  the  treasure,  and  tells  them  they  are  not  wise  (cxxxvii.). 
Aigres  however  departs  and  eventually  reaches  Rome, 
where  he  espouses  Melia  in  great  solemnity. 


The  romances  of  the  second  class,  or  those  which  relate 
to  Charlemagne,  so  closely  resemble  the  fictions  concerning 
Arthur  and  his  knights  of  the  Round  Table,  that  the  same, 
or  nearly  the  same,  observations  apply  to  both.  The 
foundations  of  each  are  laid  from  supposed  histories : 
Arthur  wars  against  the  Saxons,  and  Charlemagne  against 
the  Saracens ;  both  princes  are  unhapj^y  in  their  families, 
and  sometimes  unsuccessful  in  their  undertakings.  In 
each  class  of  compositions  the  characters  of  these  sovereigns 
are  degraded  below  their  historical  level,  for  the  purpose 
of  giving  greater  dignity  and  relief  to  their  paladins  and 
chivalry ;  since  otherwise  the  monarchs  would  have  been 
the  only  heroes,  and  the  different  warriors  would  not  have 
appeared  in  their  proper  light.  But,  by  lowering  as  it 
were  the  sovereign  princes,  the  writers  of  romance  delineated 
the  manners  of  their  times,  and  pleased  perhaps  those 
haughty  barons,  who  took  delight  in  representations  of 
vassals  superior  in  prowess  and  in  power  to  their  lords. 
The  authors  of  the  romances  concerning  Charlemagne 
wrote  under  considerable  disadvantages :  the  ground  had 
been  already  occupied  by  their  predecessors,  and  they 
could  do  little  more  than  copy  their  pictures  of  tented 
fields,  and  their  method  of  dissecting  knights  and  giants. 
On  the  other  hand*  circumstances  were  in  some  degree 
more  favourable  to  them  than  to  the  authors  of  the  fictions 
concerning  Arthur  and  the  companions  of  the  Round 
Table.  The  Saracens  were  a  more  romantic  people  than 
the  Saxons ;  and  tales  of  eastern  fairies  and  eastern  mag- 


350  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  IV. 

nificence  offered  new  pictures  to  delight  and  astonish  the 
mind.  "  The  knights  of  Charlemagne,"  says  Sismondi, 
"  no  longer  wandered,  like  those  of  the  Round  Table, 
through  gloomy  forests,  in  a  country  half  civilized,  and 
which  seemed  always  covered  with  storms  and  snow.  All 
the  softness  and  perfumes  of  regions  most  favoured  by 
nature  were  now  at  the  disposal  of  romancers ;  and  an 
acquisition  still  more  precious  was  the  imagination  of  the 
east, — that  imagination  so  brilliant  and  various,  which 
was  employed  to  give  animation  to  the  sombre  mythology 
of  the  north.  Magnificent  palaces  now  arose  in  the  desert : 
enchanted  gardens  or  groves,  perfumed  with  orange  trees 
and  myrtles,  bloomed  amidst  burning  sands,  or  barren 
rocks  surrounded  by  the  sea."  All  these  are  much  less 
agreeable  than  genuine  pictures  of  life  and  nature  ;  but 
they  are  better,  at  least,  than  descriptions  of  continual 
havoc,  and  the  unprovoked  slaughter  of  giants.  Of  all 
kinds  of  warfare  the  gigantomachia  is,  in  truth,  the  least 
interesting,  as  we  invariably  anticipate  what  will  be  the 
final  lot  of  the  giant,  who,  from  the  unlucky  precedent  of 
the  Titans  and  Groliah,  has  constantly  fallen  luider  the  arm 
of  his  adversary.  Indeed,  in  proportion  to  his  bulk  and 
stature,  his  destruction  appears  always  the  more  easy  and 
his  fate  more  certain.  Butler  pronounces  it  to  be  a  heavy 
case,  that  a  man  should  have  his  brains  knocked  out  for 
no  other  reason  than  because  he  is  tall  and  has  large  bones ; 
but  the  case  seems  still  harder,  that  strength  and  stature, 
while  they  provoked  aggression,  should  have  been  of  no 
service  in  repelling  it,  and  that  a  giant's  power  and 
prowess  should  have  proved  of  no  avail  except  to  his 
antagonist.  In  this  respect,  however,  it  must  be  confessed, 
that  the  book  of  nature  differs  little  from  the  volumes  of 
chivalry,  since,  while  the  race  of  mites  and  moths  remain, 
the  mammoth  and  megatherion  are  swept  away. 

^  The  following  works  may  be  noted  in  connexion  with  the  subject : — 
Le  Origini  dell'  epopea  francese,  indagate  da  Pio  Eaina,  Firenze,  1884, 
of  which  a  critical  account  is  given  by  M.  G.  Paris  in  Romania,  Oct. 
1884.  (See  note,  p.  342,  supra).  G.  Paris,  Histoire  poetique  Charle- 
magne, 1865,  etc,  A.  Pakscher,  Zur  Kritik  und  Geschichte  des  alt- 
franzosiscben  Rolandshedes,  Berlin,  1885.  L.  Gautier,  Epopees  Fran- 
9aises.  1880,  etc. 


CHAPTER  Y. 

ROMANCES    OF     THE    PENINSULA     CONCERNING     AMADIS     DE 
GAUL   AND    HIS    DESCENDANTS. — ROMANCES  RELATING  TO 

THE     IMAGINARY     FAMILY     OF      THE     PALMERINS. CATA- 

LONIAN  ROMANCES. TIRANTE  THE  WHITE. PARTENOPEX 

DE  BLOIS. 

THE  reader,  who  lias  now  toiled  through  the  romances 
of  the  Round  Table,  and  those  relatmg  to  Charlemagne, 
has  not  yet  completed  the  whole  of  his  labour : 

Alter  erit  nunc  Tiphjs,  et  altera  quae  vehat  Argo 
Delei,'tos  heroas  :  erunt  etiam  altera  bella. 

ViRG.  Eel.  4. 

Had  it  been  my  intention,  indeed,  merely  to  compose  a 
pleasing  miscellany,  I  should  not  only  refrain  from  analyzing 
any  other  romances  of  chivalry,  but  should  even  have 
omitted  many  of  which  an  abstract  has  been  given.  But 
the  value  of  a  work  of  the  description  which  I  have  under- 
taken, consists,  in  a  considerable  degree,  in  its  fulness. 
The  multipHcity  of  the  productions  of  any  species  is  evi- 
dence of  the  kind  of  literature  which  was  in  fashion  at  the 
time  of  their  composition,  and  therefore  indicates  the  taste 
of  the  age.  Even  the  dulness  of  the  fictions  of  chivalry  is, 
in  some  degree,  instructive,  as  acquainting  us  with  the 
monotonous  mode  of  life  which  prevailed  during  the 
periods  which  gave  them  birth ;  while,  at  the  same  time, 
by  a  comparison  of  the  intellectual  powers  exhibited  in 
romance  with  the  exertions  of  the  same  ages  in  law,  theo- 
logy, and  other  pursuits,  we  are  enabled  to  form  an  esti- 
mate of  the  employment  of  genius  in  those  distant  periods, 
and  to  behold  in  what  arts  and  sciences  it  was  most 
successfully  displayed. 

While  the  other  European  nations  were  so  much  occupied 
with  romance  writing,  it  was  not  to  be  expected  that  the 
Portuguese  and  Spaniards  should  altogether  have  neglected 


352  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

a  species  of  composition  so  fascinating  in  itself,  and  at  this, 
time  so  much  in  vogue.  The  subject  of  Arthur,  and  the 
topics  connected  with  Charlemagne,  had  been  exhausted^ 
and  it  was  now  requisite  to  find  a  new  chief  and  a  new 
race  of  heroes.  Arthur  had  been  selected  as  a  leader  in 
romance,  less  perhaps  from  national  vanity  than  from 
being  in  possession  of  some  traditional  glory,  and  thus 
forming  a  kind  of  head  and  support,  by  which  unity  was 
given  to  the  adventures  of  subordinate  knights.  Charle- 
magne was  naturally  adopted  by  the  romance  writers  of 
the  neighbouring  country  as  having  many  analogies  with 
Arthur.  In  Portugal,  however,  where  we  shall  find  the 
first  great  romance  of  the  series  on  which  we  are  now 
entering  was  formed,^  there  seems  to  have  been  no  prince 
nor  leader  who  was  thus  clothed  with  traditional  fame» 
Accordingly  an  imaginary  hero  was  chosen,  and,  as  the 
first  romance  which  was  written  in  the  peninsula  was  pos- 
sessed of  great  literary  merit,  it  had  an  overpowering  and 
subduing  effect  on  succeeding  fablers.  In  imitation  of  the 
former  author,  they  continued  the  family  history,  supposing, 
perhaps,  that  the  interest  which  had  been  already  excited 
on  the  subject,  which  formed  the  source  of  their  works, 
would  be  favourable  to  their  success.  This  also  furnished 
a  certain  facility  of  magnifying  their  heroes,  as  it  was  not 
difficult  to  represent  each  new  descendant  as  surpassing 
his  predecessor.  Unfortunately  the  successive  writers  of 
romance  supposed  that  what  had  pleased  once  must  please 
always ;  in  the  same  manner  that  it  was  long  thought 
necessary  that  an  epic  writer  should  have  in  his  poem  the 
same  number  of  books  as  Homer,  and  should  emj)loy  the 
same  forms  of  address,  comparison,  and  description.  Ac- 
cordingly the  heroes  of  most  romances  of  the  peninsula 
are  illegitimate  ;  there  are  usually  two  brothers,  a  Platonist 
and  Materialist ;  and,  in  short,  a  general  sameness  of  cha- 
racter and  incident.  The  opponents  of  the  knights  are, 
however,  different  from  those  in  the  romances  of  Arthur 
or  Charlemagne  ;  they  are  no  longer  the  Saxons  or  Saracens, 
but  the  Turks  ;  and  as  the  G-reek  empire  was  now  trem- 
bhng  to  its  base,  many  of  the  scenes  of  warfare  are  laid  at 

^  See,  however,  note  on   p.   354,  respecting  the  authorship  of  the 
Amadis. 


CH.  v.]  AMADIS    DE    GAUL.  353 

Constantinople.  In  some  of  the  concluding  romances  of 
the  series,  indeed,  happier  fictions  are  introduced,  and  an 
attempt  is  made  to  vary  with  new  incidents,  and  the 
splendour  of  eastern  enchantments,  the  perpetual  havoc 
which  occurs  in  the  preceding  fables.  But  I  am,  perhaps, 
anticipating  too  much  the  reflections  of  the  reader,  and 
shall  therefore,  without  farther  delay,  proceed  to 

n 

AmADIS    DE    GrAUL,^ 

which  has  generally  been  considered  as  one  of  the  finest 
and  most  interesting  romances  of  chivalry.  Hence,  per- 
haps, different  nations  have  anxiously  vindicated  to  them- 
selves the  credit  of  its  origin.  Lopez  de  Vega,  in  his 
Fortunas  de  Diano,  attributes  it  to  a  Portuguese  lady.  On 
the  authority  of  Nicholas  Antonio,  Warton  has  assigned 
the  composition  of  Amadis  de  Gaul  to  Yasco  Lobeira,  a 
Portuguese  officer,  who  died  at  Elvas  in  1403,  or,  according 
to  Sismondi,-  in  1325.  This  opinion  has  been  also  adopted 
by  Mr.  Southey,  who  has  entered  at  considerable  length 
into  the  reasons  on  which  it  is  grounded.  The  original 
work  he  believes  to  be  lost,  but  he  conceives  that  Amadis 
was  first  written  in  the  Portuguese  language  ;  and  he  argues 
that  Lobeira  was  the  author,  from  the  concurrent  testi- 
mony of  almost  all  Portuguese  writers,  particularly  of 
Gomes  Eannes  de  Zurrara,'^  in  his  chi'onicle  of  Don  Pedro 
de  Menezes,  which  appeared  only  half  a  century  after  the 
death  of  Lobeira.  He  also  thinks  the  Portuguese  origin 
of  the  romance  is  established  from  a  sonnet  by  an  uncer- 
tain poet,  but  a  contemporary  of  Lobeira,  praising  him  as 
the  author,  and  from  the  circumstance  that  in  the  Spanish 
version  by  Montalvo,  it  is  mentioned  that  the  Infant 
Don  Alphonso  of  Portugal  had  ordered  some  part  of  the 
story  to  be  altered. 

The  French  writers,  on  the  other  hand,  and  particularly 
the  Comte  de  Tressan,  in  his  preface  to  the  Traduction 
libre  d' Amadis  de  Gaule,  have  insisted  that  the  work  (or 
at  least  the  three  first  of  the  four  books  it  contains)  was 
originally    written   in   French,   in    the    reign    of    Philip 

^  Los  quatro  libros  del  Cavallero  Amadis  de  Gaiila. 
2  De  la  Literatui-e  du  midi  de  I'Europe. 
2  Keeper  of  the  Archives  of  Tortugai  in  1454. 
I.  A  A 


354  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

Augiistus,  or  one  of  his  predecessors.  His  arguments  rest 
on  some  vague  assertions  in  old  French  manuscripts,  that 
Amadis  had  been  at  one  time  extant,  and  on  the  similarity 
of  the  manners,  and  even  incidents,  described  in  Amadis, 
"vvith  those  of  Tristan  and  Lancelot,  which  are  avowedly- 
French  :  he  thinks  it  also  improbable  that  while  such 
hatred  subsisted  between  the  French  and  Sj)aniards,  an 
author  of  the  latter  nation  should  Imve  chosen  a  Gallic 
knight  for  liis  favourite  hero ;  but  this  argument  strikes 
only  against  a  Spanish  and  not  a  Portuguese  original.  To 
the  reasons  of  Tressan,  however,  may  be  added  the  tes- 
timony of  one  Portuguese  poet,  Cardoso,  who  says  that 
Lobeira  translated  Amadis  from  the  French  by  order  of 
the  Infant  Don  Pedro,  son  of  Joan  First ;  ^  and  also  the 

'  It  is  worthy  of  notice  that  towards  the  end  of  the  third  chapter, 
Lobeira  writes  : — "  The  author  ceaseth  to  speak  of  this,  and  returneth 
to  the  child  whom  Gandales  brought  up."  Ticknor,  however,  attaches 
little  weight  to  the  arguments  against  Lobeira's  authorship.  "  The 
Portuguese  original,"  he  says,  "  can  no  longer  be  found.  At  the  end 
of  the  sixteenth  century,  we  are  assured  it  was  extant  in  manuscript  in 
the  archives  of  the  Dukes  of  Aveiro  at  Lisbon ;  and  the  same  assertion 
is  renewed  on  good  authority  about  the  year  1750.  From  this  time, 
however,  w^e  lose  all  trace  of  it ;  and  the  most  careful  inquiries  render 
it  probable  that  this  curious  manuscript,  about  which  there  has  been  so 
much  discussion,  perished  in  the  terrible  earthquake  and  conflagration 
of  1755,  when  the  palace  occupied  by  the  ducal  family  of  Aveiro  was 
destroyed  with  all  its  precious  contents."  The  fact  that  the  original 
manuscript  of  Amadis  de  Gaula  "  was  in  the  Aveiro  collection  is  stated 
by  Ferreira,  Poemas  Lusitanos,  where  is  the  sonnet,  No.  33  ...  in 
honour  of  Lobeira,  which  Southey,  in  his  preface  to  his  Amadis  of 
Gaul,  erroneously  attributes  to  the  Infante  Antonio  of  Portugal,  and 
thus  would  make  it  of  consequence  in  the  present  discussion.  Nic 
Antonio,"  a  writer  of  by  no  means  unimpeachable  accuracy,  "  who 
leaves  no  doubt  as  to  the  authorship  of  the  sonnet  in  question,  i-efers  to 
the  same  note  in  Ferreira  to  prove  the  deposit  of  the  manuscript  of  the 
Amadis  ;  so  that  the  two  constitute  only  one  authority,  and  not  two 
authorities  as  Southey  supposes.  (Bib,  Vetus,  lib.  viii.  cap.  vii.  sect. 
291.)  Barboso  is  more  distinct.  (Bib.  Lusitana,  tom.  iii.,  p.  775.)  He 
says,  '  0  original  se  conservava  em  casa  dos  Excellentissimos  Duques 
de  Aveiro.'  But  there  is  a  careful  summing  up  of  the  matter  in 
Clemencin's  notes  to  Don  Quixote  (tom.  i.,  pp.  105, 106)."  That  the  work, 
at  least  in  the  form  in  which  it  has  been  known  since  the  middle  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  belongs  to  Spain  seems  to  be  shown  almost  to  cer- 
tainty by  Dr.  Braunfels  in  his  Kritischer  Versuch  iiber  den  Roman 
Amadis  von  Gallien,  Leip.,  1876.  See  also  E,  Baret,  De  I'Amadis  de 
Gaule  et  de  son  influence  sur  les  moeurs  et  la  litterature,  etc.    Paris,  1853. 


CH.  v.]  AMADIS    DE    GAUL.  355 

assertion  of  D'Herberay,  a  translator  of  Amadis  from  the 
Spanish  into  French,  about  the  middle  of  the  16th 
century,  who  declares  that  he  had  seen  fragments  of  a  MS. 
in  the  Picard  language,  which  seemed  to  be  the  original  of 
Amadis  de  Gaul: — "  J'en  ay  trouvc  encore  quelque  reste 
d'un  viel  livre,  escrit  a  la  main,  en  langage  Picard,  sur 
lesquel  J'estime  que  les  Espagnols  ont  fait  leur  traduction, 
non  pas  du  tout  suyvant  le  vrai  original  comme  Ton 
pourra  veoir  par  cestuy,  car  ils  en  ont  obmis  en  aucuns 
endroits  et  augmentc  aux  autres."  The  testimony  of  Ber- 
nardo Tasso,  author  of  the  Amadigi,  a  j^oem  taken  from  the 
romance,  is  also  against  a  peninsular  origin.  To  his  evi- 
dence considerable  weight  is  due,  as  he  lived  at  a  j^eriod  of 
no  great  distance  from  the  death  of  Lobeira,  and  from 
being  engaged  in  a  poem  on  the  subject  of  Amadis,  he 
would  naturally  be  accurate  and  industrious  in  his  re- 
searches. Now  the  Italian  bard  is  decidedly  of  opinion, 
that  the  romance  of  Amadis  has  been  taken  from  some 
ancient  English  or  Breton  history.  "  Non  e  duhbio,''  (savs 
he  in  one  of  his  letters  to  Girolamo  Euscelli,)  "die  lo 
scrittore  di  questa  leggiadra  e  vaga  invenzione  I'ha  in  parte 
cavata  da  qualche  istoria  di  Bertagna,  e  poi  abbelitola  e 
rendutala  a  quella  vaghezza  che  il  mondo  cosi  diletta ; "  (vol. 
ii.,  let.  166,)  and  again,  "  Gaula  in  lingua  Inglese  dalla  quale 
e  cavata  quest'  Istoria  vuol  dir  Francia,"  (vol.  ii.  let.  93). 

It  also  appears  from  various  passages  of  the  letters  of 
B.  Tasso,  that  as  much  doubt  and  misapprehension  existed 
with  regard  to  the  country  of  the  hero  as  concerning  the 
original  author  of  the  romance.  He  says  that  the  refab- 
ricafor  of  the  work  from  the  British  history  thought  that 
Gaul  meant  Wales,  and  that  he  had  erroneously  styled  his 
hero  Amadis  of  Gaul,  "  jDer  non  avere  inteso  quel  vocabulo 
Gaules,  il  qual  nella  lingua  Inglese  vuol  dir  Gallia."  But 
Gaules  signifying  Gallia,  or  France,  Tasso  concludes  that 
France  was  the  country  of  Amadis  ;  he  therefore  resolves 
to  call  his  poem  Amadigi  di  Francia,  and  expresses  his  con- 
fidence that  the  reasons  he  has  assigned  will  be  sufficient, 
"  a  divellere  questo  invecchiato  abuso  dall  opinion  degli 
uomini."  This  general  opinion,  that  Wales  was  the  country 
of  Amadis,  was  not  an  unnatural  one,  since  Gaules  and 
Gaula,  in  old  English,  was  the  name  for  Wales  as  well  as 


356  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

France  : — "  I  say  Grallia  and  Gaul — Frencli  and  Welsh — 
sonl-cnrer  and  body-curer,"  exclaims  the  host  in  the  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor,  (act.  iii.  scene  i.)  while  addressing  the 
French  doctor  and  the  Welsh  parson.  There  are  also 
several  circumstances  in  the  romance  itself,  which  might 
have  led  to  the  mistake.  Thus  Amadis  proceeding  from 
Gaul  to  the  court  of  the  king  of  England,  which  was  then 
held  at  Vindilisora  (Windsor)  sails  to  a  goodly  city  in 
Great  Britain,  called  Brestoya  (Bristol,)  a  strange  port  to 
land  at  in  crossing  from  France  to  England,  but  a  very 
convenient  harbour  for  one  proceeding  from  South  Wales 
to  Windsor.  On  the  whole,  however,  Tasso  seems  right 
in  supposing  that  by  Gaula  the  author  of  Amadis  meant 
France ;  for  we  are  told  in  the  course  of  the  work,  that 
Perion,  king  of  Gaul,  and  father  of  Amadis,  summons  to 
a  council  the  bishops  and  lords  of  his  kingdom,  command- 
ing them  to  bring  the  most  celebrated  clerks  in  their 
respective  districts,  and  two  members  of  the  council  were 
in  consequence  attended  by  Clerk  Ungan  of  Picardy,  and 
Alberto  of  Champagne.^ 

Though  the  Spaniards  do  not  lay  any  claim  to  the 
original  composition  of  this  romance,  nor  to  its  hero  as 
their  countryman,  the  most  ancient  impression  of  it  now 
extant  is  in  their  language,  and  was  printed  in  1526,  at 
Seville.  This  work  was  compiled  from  detached  Spanish 
fragments,  which  had  af)peared  in  the  time  of  Ferdinand 
and  Isabella.  It  was  subsequently  revised  and  compared 
with  the  old  manuscript  fragments  by  Garcias  Ordognez 
Montalvo,  who  at  length  published  an  amended  edition  in 
1547,  at  Salamanca.^  From  the  prior  edition  of  1526,  D'Her- 

^  Dr.  Braunfels,  however  (op.  cit.  p.  164,  etc.),  adduces  various  points, 
of  internal  evidence  in  favour  of  Wales. 

2  Note  from  Clemencin's  edition  of  "Don  Quixote"  (torn.  i.  p.  107)^ 
quoted  by  Ticknor.  There  is  a  difficulty  about  the  original  composition 
and  construction  of  the  Amadis  of  which  I  was  not  aware  when  the  first 
edition  of  this  History  was  published  (1849),  and  which  I  will  now 
(1858)  explain  as  well  as  I  can,  chiefly  from  the  notes  of  Gayangos  to 
his  translation  (tom.  i.  pp.  520-522),  and  from  his  Discurso  Preliminar 
to  the  fortieth  volume  of  the  Biblioteca  de  Autores  Espaiioles,  which 
contains  the  Amadis  and  Esplandian. 

The  difficulty  in  question  arises,  I  think,  in  a  great  degree  from  the 
circumstance  that  the  preface  of  Montalvo  is  given  differently  in  the 
different  early  editions  of  the  Amadis,  and  would  lead  to  different  in> 


CH.  v.]  AMADIS    DE    GAUL.  357 

beiTV  formed  his  translation  of  the  four  books  of  Amadis,  de- 
dicated to  Francis  I.,  and  printed  1540.  To  these  he  added 
other  four  books,  containing  the  exj^loils  of  the  descendants 
of  Amadis,  which  were  drawn  from  Spanish  originals :  the 
family  history  was  subsequently  carried  to  the  twenty- 
fourtli  book  by  translators  who  also  wrought  from  Spanish 
originals,  but  sometimes  added  interpolations  of  their 
own  ;  and  the  whole  received  the  name  of  Amadis  de  Gaul, 
w^hicli  was  the  title  of  all  the  peninsular  prototypes.  The 
first  books,  which  relate  peculiarly  to  the  exploits  of 
Amadis,  were  compressed  by  the  Count  de  Tressan,  in  his 
free  translation,  into  two  volumes  12mo.  His  labour  was 
entirely  useless,  as  he  has,  in  a  great  measure,  changed  the 
incidents  of  the  romance,  and  hid  the  genuine  manners 
^nd  feelings  of  chivalry  under  the  varnish  of  French 
seatiment.  A  late  version  by  Mr.  Southey  is  greatly  pre- 
ferable, as  the  events  are  there  accurately  related,  and  the 
manners  faithfully  observed. 

ferences.  In  tlie  one  by  Cromberger,  1520,  which  I  have  never  seen, 
but  which  is  cited  by  Gayangos,  we  are  told  of  Montalvo,  ••(jue  en  su 
tienipo  solo  se  conocian  fres  libros  del  Amadis,  y  quel  el  anadio,  tras- 
ladij  y  enniendu  el  quarto."  The  same  fact  of  its  being  originally  known 
in  thrrc  books  is  set  forth  in  some  of  the  poems  in  Baena's  •'  Cancionero," 
published  ISol,  and  especially  in  a  poem  by  Pedro  Ferrus,  who,  perhaps, 
wrote  as  early  as  1379,  but  lived  a  good  deal  later.  From  these  and 
other  circumstances  of  less  consequence,  Gayangos  infers  that  there 
was  current  in  Spain  an  Amadis  in  three  books  before  Lobeira  prepared 
his  version  of  the  story,  which  can.  he  thinks,  hardly  have  been  much 
before  1390,  as  the  Infante  Alfonso,  who  induced  him  to  modify  the 
story  of  Briolania,  was  not  born  till  1370.  But  who  can  have  written 
these  three  books,  if  they  existed  so  early,  or  in  what  language  they 
were  written,  is  not  even  to  be  conjectured.  Lobeira  may  have  been 
their  author  as  early  as  1350  or  1370,  and  have  altered  the  story  of 
Briolania  afterwards  as  late  as  1390  to  please  the  prince,  as  he  says  he 
did,  and  so  the  distinct  and  clear  averment  of  Eannes  de  Zurara  stand 
untouched.  A.t  any  rate  I  do  not  see  how  we  can  get  behind  his  tes- 
timony that  Lobeira  was  the  author,  or  behind  Montalvo's  testimony 
that  the  Amadis  we  now  possesss  was  a  translation  made  by  him,  with 
alterations  and  improvements. 

An  English  translation  by  Thomas  Paynel  from  the  French  was  pub- 
lished in  1567  with  the  title,  ''  The  most  excellent  and  pleasaunt  Booke, 
entituled  :  The  treasurie  of  Amadis  of  Fraunce  :  Conteyning  eloquente 
orations,  pythie  Epistles,  learned  Letters,  and  fervent  Complayntes, 
•etc."  An  Italian  translation  appeared  in  1546,  and  suggested  the 
Amadigi  di  Francia  of  Bernardo  Tasso.  Du  Verdier  wrote  a  satire 
upon  the  Amadis,  entitled  the  Chevalier  Hypocondriaque. 


358  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V, 

The  era  of  the  exploits  of  Amadis  is  prior  to  the  age  of 
Arthur  or  Charlemagne,  and  he  is  the  most  ancient  as. 
well  as  the  most  fabulous  of  all  heroes  of  chivalry.  He  is 
said  in  the  romance  to  have  been  the  illegitimate  offspring 
of  Perion,  king  of  Gaul,  and  Elisena,  princess  of  Britany. 
The  mother,  to  conceal  her  shame,  exposed  the  infant^ 
soon  after  his  birth,  in  a  cradle,  which  was  committed  to 
the  sea.  He  was  picked  up  by  a  knight  of  Scotland,  who 
was  returning  from  Britany  to  his  own  country,  and  who- 
reared  him  under  the  name  of  Child  of  the  Sea.  When 
twelve  years  of  age  he  was  sent  to  be  educated  at  the  court 
of  the  king  of  Scotland.  There  a  mutual  attachment  was. 
formed  between  him  and  Oriana,  who  was  daughter  of 
Lisuarte,  king  of  England,  but  had  been  sent  to  Scotland 
on  account  of  the  commotions  in  her  own  country.  After 
Amadis  had  received  the  honour  of  knighthood,  he  pro- 
ceeded to  the  succour  of  Perion,  king  of  Gaul,  who  by  this, 
time  had  espoused  Elisena,  and  had  become  the  father  of 
another  son,  named  Galaor.  This  second  child  had  been 
stolen  by  a  giant,  who  wished  to  educate  him  according  to 
his  own  system  ;  but  Perion  was  consoled  for  the  loss  by 
the  recognition  of  Amadis,  who  was  discovered  to  be  his 
son  by  means  of  a  ring,  which  had  been  placed  on  his 
finger  when  he  was  exposed.  His  parents  derived  the 
greater  satisfaction  from  this  acknowledgment,  as  Amadis 
had  already  proved  his  valour  by  the  overthrow  of  the 
king  of  Ireland,  who  had  invaded  Gaul, — an  exploit  simi- 
lar to  that  with  which  it  may  be  recollected  Tristan  began 
his  career. 

It  is  impossible  to  give  any  account  of  the  adventures  of 
Amadis  after  his  return  to  England,  though  they  only 
divide  the  romance  with  those  of  his  brother  Galaor— the 
wars  of  extermination  he  carried  on  against  giants — the 
assistance  he  afforded  to  Lisuarte  against  the  usurper 
Barsinian  and  the  enchanter  Arcalaus — his  long  retirement 
under  the  name  of  Beltenebros  to  a  hermitage,  after  re- 
ceiving a  cruel  letter  from  his  mistress  Oriana,  one  of  the- 
chief  points  of  Don  Quixote's  fantastic  imitation — the- 
battles  he  fought,  after  quitting  this  abode,  against  Cildadan, 
king  of  Ireland — the  defeat  of  a  hundred  knights,  by  whom. 
Lisuarte  had  been  attacked ;   and,  finallv,  his  innumerable 


CH.  v.]  AMADIS    DE    GAUL.  359 

exploits  in  Germany  and  in  Turkey,  when  the  jealousy  and 
suspicion  of  Lisuarte,  excited  by  evil  counsellors,  had  forced 
him  to  leave  Oriana  and  the  court  of  England. 

Amadis  returned,  however,  in  sufficient  time  to  rescue 
his  beloved  princess  from  the  power  of  the  Romans,  to 
whose  ambassadors  LisTiarte  had  given  her  up,  to  be  es- 
poused by  the  emperor's  brother.  Their  fleet  having  been 
intercepted  by  Amadis,  and  totally  defeated,  Oriana  was 
conveyed  to  the  Firm  Island  by  her  lover.  A  long  war 
was  then  carried  on  between  Lisuarte  and  Amadis,  in  which 
the  former  was  worsted ;  and  when  weakened  by  two 
dreadful  battles,  he  was  unexpectedly  attacked  by  an  old 
enemy,  Aravigo,  who  was  urged  on  by  the  enchanter 
Arcalaus.  When  in  this  dilemma,  he  was  saved  by  the 
generosity  of  Amadis,  who  having  turned  to  his  assistance 
the  arms  he  had  lately  employed  against  him,  defeated 
his  enemies,  slew  Aravigo,  and  took  Arcalaus  prisoner. 
On  account  of  this  conduct,  and  a  discovery  that  the  de- 
lights of  matrimony  had  been  anticipated,  Lisuarte  con- 
sented to  the  formal  union  of  his  daughter  with  Amadis. 
Their  nuptials  were  celebrated  on  the  Firm  Island,  and 
Oriana  terminated  the  wonderful  enchantments  of  that 
spot,  by  entering  the  magic  apartment,  which  could  only 
be  approached  by  the  fairest  and  most  faithful  woman  in 
the  world. 

The  notion  of  a  chamber,  a  tower,  or  island,  accessible 
only  to  a  certain  hero  or  beauty,  and  which  occiu's  in 
many  of  the  subsequent  books  of  Amadis,  is  evidently 
derived  from  oriental  fiction,  which,  as  naturally  to  be  ex- 
pected, abounds  more  in  the  romances  of  the  peninsula, 
than  in  those  of  France  or  England.  We  are  told  in  an 
eastern  story,  that  Abdalmalek,  fifth  caliph  of  the  Ommi- 
ades,  and  one  of  the  first  who  invaded  Spain,  arrived  at  a 
castle  erected  by  the  fairies,  on  one  of  the  most  remote 
mountains  in  Spain.  The  gate  was  secured,  not  by  a  lock, 
but  by  a  dragon's  tooth,  and  over  it  was  an  inscription,  which 
imported  that  it  was  accessible  to  none  but  Abdalmalek. 

But  while  eastern  fictions  have  supplied  some  magical 
adventures,  especially  towards  the  conclusion  of  the  work, 
the  earlier  and  greater  part  of  Amadis  de  Gaul  is  occupied 
with  combats,  which  are  generally  described  with  much 


360  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

spirit,  yet  are  tiresome  by  frequent  re j)etition ;  and  at  length 
scarcely  interest  us,  as  we  become  almost  certain  of  the 
success  of  tlie  liero  from  the  frequent  recurrence  of  victory. 

Though  the  story  does  not  lead  us,  like  many  other 
romances,  through  the  adventures  of  a  multitude  of  knights, 
changing  without  method  from  one  to  another,  it  suspends 
our  attention  between  the  exploits  of  Amadis  and  those  of 
his  brother  Galaor. 

Amadis  excels  the  French  romances  of  chivalry  in  the 
delineation  of  character.  There  is  much  sweetness  in  the 
account  of  the  infancy  and  boyhood  of  the  Child  of  the 
Sea,  and  the  early  attachment  betwixt  him  and  Oriana. 
Tliis  princess,  however,  proves  to  be  of  weak  intellect  and 
peevish  disposition,  and  is  frequently  disquieted  with  ill- 
founded  jealousy.  Amadis  is  an  interesting  character,  and 
is  well  distinguished  from  his  brother  Galaor ;  they  are 
equally  valiant,  but  the  elder  wants  the  gaiety  of  the 
younger;  he  also  remains  faithfully  attached  to  one 
mistress,  while  G-alaor  is  constantly  changing  the  object 
of  his  affections,  a  fraternal  contrast  which  has  been  ex- 
hibited in  most  of  the  Spanish  romances  relating  to  the 
descendants  of  Amadis. 

In  the  morals  displayed,  and  in  the  general  conduct  of 
the  incidents,  these  continuations  are  much  inferior  to  the 
work  which  they  follow,  but  they  become,  as  they  advance, 
more  sj^lendid  in  their  decorations,  and  more  imposing  in 
their  machinery.  The  XJrganda  of  the  original  Amadis, 
as  Mr.  Southey  remarks,  is  a  true  fairy,  like  Morgaine  le 
Fay,  and  the  Lady  of  the  Lake ;  but  the  Urganda,  who,  in 
the  subsequent  books  of  Amadis,  sails  about  in  the  Green 
Serpent,  is  an  enchantress  of  a  more  formidable  description, 
and  her  rivals,  Zerfea  and  Melia,  are  as  tremendous  as  the 
Medea  of  classical  mythology. 

Of  the  series  of  fictions,  this  first  romance  is  the 

Exploits  of  Esplandian,^ 
the    son  of   Amadis,   the   greater  part   of   which   is   the 

'  Quinto  libro  d' Amadis  de  Gaula,  o  las  Sergas  dell  cavallero  Esplan- 
dian  hijo  d' Amadis  de  Gaula. — Seville,  1542.  Saragossa,  1587.  Sergas 
is  probably  a  corruption  of  the  plural  of  the  Greek  word  Ergon  (opus), 
corresponding  to  hecJios  in  Spanish. — Dunlop. 

"  The  oldest  edition   of  the   Esplandian  now  known    to   exist  was 


CH.  v.]  EXPLOITS    OF    ESPLANDIAN.  361 

work  of  Montalvo,  the  Spanish  translator  of  Amadis.  In 
order  to  shelter  himself  under  a  i)opular  name,  the  author 
called  it  the  fifth  book  of  Amadis  ;  on  which  it  thus  be- 
came the  burden  and  excrescence.  This  example  was 
imitated  by  the  followers  of  Montalvo — the  history  of 
Lisuarte  formed  the  seventh  and  eighth  books,  and  that 
of  Amadis  of  Greece  the  ninth  and  tenth  of  Amadis  de 
Gaul.  The  Spanish  romancers  thus  proceeded  from  gene- 
ration to  generation  ;  and,  in  order  to  give  some  plausibility 
to  the  title  they  bestowed,  they  kept  Amadis  himself  alive, 
who  thus  became  the  perennial  prop  of  his  otherwise 
insupportable  descendants. 

None  of  the  progeny  degenerated  more  from  the  merits 
of  the  parent  than  his  immediate  successor  Esplandian; 
and  Cervantes,  who  tolerated  Amadis  de  Gaul  as  the  first 
and  liest  of  the  kind,  hath  most  justly  decreed,  "  that  the 
excellence  of  the  father  should  not  avail  the  son,  but  that 
he  should  be  thrown  into  the  court  to  give  a  beginning  to 
the  bonfire." 

The  part  of  Amadis  de  Gaul,  however,  which  contains  an 
account  of  the  infancy  of  Esplandian,  is  one  of  the  most  beau- 
tiful portions  of  that  romance.  Oriana  having  given  birth 
to  a  son,  the  fruit  of  her  stolen  interviews  with  Amadis,  de- 
livered the  child  to  her  confidants,  that  he  might  be  con- 
veyed to  a  remote  part  of  the  country  for  the  sake  of  con- 
cealment. Those  to  whom  the  infant  was  entrusted,  in 
order  to  travel  more  privately,  struck  into  a  forest.  A 
lioness,  which  resided  in  this  quarter,  made  free  to  carry 
off  the  child  as  provender  for  her  whelps.  Unfortunately 
for  them  she  had  a  respectable  hermit  for  a  neighbour, 
who  met  and  rebuked  her  before  she  reached  the  den  with 
her  prey.  She  was  quite  disconcerted  at  being  thus  un- 
expectedly caught,  and  at  length,  by  her  good  neighbour's 
seasonable  remonstrances,  was  brought  to  a  better  way  of 
thinking,  and  was  induced  to  undertake  the  office  of  nurse 
to  the  child,  who  was  now  conveyed  to  the  hermitage. 
There  Esplandian  was  accordingly  suckled  with  much 
blandishment  by  the  reformed  lioness,  and  when  she  went 
to  prowl,  her  place  was  supplied  by  an  ewe  and  a  she-goat. 

printed  in  1521,  and  five  others  appeared  before  the  end  of  the  century, 
so  that  it  seems  to  have  enjoyed  its  full  share  of  popular  favour." — 
Ticknor. 


362  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

Other  heroes  of  chivahy,  it  may  be  recollected,  were 
fostered  in  a  similar  manner  ;  fictions,  no  doubt,  suggested 
by  the  classical  fable  of  Romulus  and  Remus. 

As  Esplandian  grew  up,  the  lioness  acted  as  a  dry 
nurse  ;  she  guarded  him  when  he  walked  out  from  the 
hermitage,  and  afterwards  accompanied  him  in  the  chase. 

One  day  King  Lisuarte,  in  the  course  of  his  field  sports, 
entered  the  forest  where  Esplandian  was  bred  up  by  the 
hermit  and  the  motherly  lioness,  and  perceived  the  boy 
leading  in  a  leash  this  animal,  which  he  loosed,  when  a 
stag  was  started,  and  hallooed  her  to  the  prey.  When  the 
game  was  overtaken,  the  lioness  and  two  spaniels  had 
their  shares  of  the  spoil.  The  king  was  surprised  at 
beholding  this  singular  group,  and  EsjDlandian  being 
carried  to  the  verge  of  the  forest,  where  the  queen  had 
pitched  her  pavilion,  was  recognised  by  Oriana  as  her  son, 
by  means  of  certain  characters  on  his  breast.  In  the  sub- 
sequent romances,  the  descendants  of  Esplandian  are 
usually  discovered  by  some  inscription  of  this  nature,  or 
other  personal  mark,  as  a  cross  or  flaming  sword,  an 
awkward  alteration  on  the  G-reek  romances,  where  children 
are  identified  by  certain  articles  of  apparel  or  decoration 
which  they  wore  at  the  time  of  their  loss  or  exposure. 

Esplandian  was  brought  up  at  the  court  of  King 
Lisuarte,  and  was  in  due  time  admitted  into  the  order  of 
knighthood.  The  romance,  which  is  appropriated  to  his 
exploits,  commences  immediately  after  this  inauguration. 
During  a  sleep,  into  which  he  fell  soon  after  the  ceremony, 
he  was  carried,  with  his  squire,  by  means  of  Urganda  the 
Unknown,  to  that  incomprehensible  machine  the  Ship  of 
the  great  Serpent,  wherein  he  was  conveyed  to  the  foot  of 
a  castle,  the  enchantments  of  which  he  was  destined  to 
terminate. 

Thence,  under  the  name  of  the  Black  Knight  (an  appel- 
lation bestowed  from  the  colour  of  his  armour,)  he  sailed 
to  the  Forbidden  Mountain,  a  stronghold  on  the  confines 
of  Turkey  and  Grreece,  and  which,  in  this  romance,  is  the 
chief  theatre  of  exploits.  Esplandian  took  jDossession  of 
it  in  behalf  of  the  G-reek  emperor,  having  slain  its  former 
gigantic  and  heathenish  proprietors.  He  did  not,  however, 
long  occupy  this  fortress  in  quiet,  as  it  was  soon  besieged 


CH.  v.]  EXPLOITS    OF    ESPLANDIAN.  363 

by  Arniato.  the  soldaii  of  the  Turks,  with  a  threat  army. 
But  Esplaudian  had  now  additional  motives  to  exert  him- 
self in  behalf  of  the  Greek  emperor.  Leouorina,  the 
emperor's  dau^^hter,  and  our  knight,  thou^^h  they  had 
never  met,  had  become  mutually  enamoured,  and  main- 
tain, during  the  romance,  an  interchange  of  amatory 
embassies.  Armato,  instead  of  recovering  possession  of 
the  Forbidden  Mountain,  was  defeated  and  made  prisoner. 
Encouraged  by  this  success,  Esplandian  carried  the  war 
into  the  heart  of  Turkey,  and  took  the  principal  city. 
Hearing,  however,  that  his  mistress  was  offended  at  his 
neglect  in  not  having  come  to  visit  her,  he  departed  for 
Constantinople ;  and  on  the  night  of  his  arrival  was 
privately  conveyed  into  her  apartment  in  a  cedar  coffer,  of 
which  he  had  requested  her  acceptance. 

On  his  return  the  war  was  prosecuted  against  the  Turks 
with  new  vigour.  The  Christians  were  assisted  by  TJr- 
ganda,  who,  in  all  his  adventures,  had  highly  favoured 
Amadis,  and  extends  her  protection  to  his  latest  posterity. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  infidels  were  supported  by  the  en- 
chantress  Melia,  the  sister  of  Armato.  That  soldan  having 
effected  his  escape  from  confinement  on  the  back  of  a. 
di'agon,  which  had  been  provided  by  his  sister,  speedily 
raised  an  immense  army,  and  besieged  Constantinople. 
He  was  aided  by  all  the  eastern  caliphs  and  soldans,  and 
especially  by  an  Amazonian  c^ueen,  who  brought,  as  her 
contingent,  a  flight  of  fifty  prime  griffins,  well  ec^uipped, 
which  flew  over  the  bulwarks  of  the  city,  and  committed 
internal  devastations.  The  Greeks,  on  their  part,  were 
assisted  by  Amadis  de  Gaul  and  the  western  potentates. 
After  a  protracted  warfare,  it  was  agreed  that  the  contest 
should  be  settled  by  a  double  combat.  Amadis  and  his 
son  Esplandian  were  selected  on  the  one  side ;  the 
Amazonian  queen  and  a  choice  soldan  on  the  other.  The 
latter  were  worsted,  yet,  notwithstanding  the  agreement, 
the  Paynim  army  attacked  the  Christians,  but  was  totally 
defeated  and  expelled  the  Greek  dominions.  The  emperor 
then  resigned  his  kingdom  in  favour  of  Esplandian,  who 
espoused  Leonorina,  daughter  of  the  abdicated  monarch. 

Now,  after  a  time,  Urganda  by  her  great  knowledge 
discovered  that  Amadis,  Galaor,  Esplandian,  and  all  her 


564  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CK,  V. 

favourite  kniglits,  were  in  a  short  time  to  pay  the  debt  of 
natui'e.  She  therefore  sent  for  them  to  the  Firm  Island, 
and  informed  them  that  the  only  way  to  escape  mortality, 
was  to  remain  in  the  dormant  state  into  which  she  could 
throw  them,  till  disenchanted  by  Lisuarte,  son  of  Esplan- 
dian,  acquiring  possession  of  a  certain  magic  sword,  when 
they  would  all  spring  to  life  with  renovated  vigour. 

Thus,  although  new  heroes  are  always  rising  on  the 
stage,  the  readei'  never  gets  free  of  the  old  ones.  They 
subsist  through  the  whole  romance  of 

Lisuarte  of  Greece,^ 

son  of  Esplandian  aud  Leonorina,  who  was  destined  to 
recall  them  to  their  former  inquietude.  His  exploits 
occupy  the  7th  and  8th  books  of  Amadis,  which  are  said 
to  have  been  written  b}^  Juan  Diaz,  bachelor  of  canon  law. 
Perion,  who  was  son  of  Amadis  de  Gaul  and  Oriana,  and 
born  after  their  legal  union,  is  the  second  character  in  this 
romance,  which  commences  with  the  account  of  a  voyage 
undertaken  by  Perion,  from  England  to  Ireland,  in  order 
to  be  dubbed  a  knight  by  the  king  of  the  latter  country. 
On  his  way  he  is  separated  from  his  followers  by  a  lady 
cruising  in  a  boat  managed  by  four  apes,  who  insist  that 
he  should  accompany  their  mistress,  for  the  fulfilment  of 
a  great  emprise.  His  attendants  proceed  to  Constanti- 
nople, where  they  report  his  adventure,  and  Lisuarte,  in 
consequence,  sets  out  in  quest  of  his  kinsman  Perion. 
This  prince  had  meanwhile  arrived  in  Trebizond,  and  fallen 
in  love  with  one  of  the  emperor's  daughters ;  he  had  not, 
however,  leisure  to  prosecute  his  suit,  as  She  of  the  Apes 
hurries  him  away  to  accomplish  the  enterprise  he  had 
imdertaken. 

Soon  after  his  departure,  Lisuarte  also  arrived  in  Trebi- 
zond, and  fell  in  love  with  Onoloria,  the  emperor's  other 
daughter  :  but  while  enjoying  himself  in  the  society  of  his 
mistress,  a  lady  of  gigantic  stature  came  to  court,  and 
asked  from  Lisuarte  a  gift.     This,  as  usual,  was  promised 

^  Chronica  de  los  faraosos  esforcados  cavalleros  Lisuarte  de  Grecia, 
hijo  d'Esplandian ;  y  de  Ferion  de  Gaul,  hijo  d'Amadis  de  Gaula. — 
Seville,  1525,  folio. 


CH.  v.]  LISUARTE    OF    GREECE.  365 

without  any  inquiries  as  to  its  nature,  and  it  proved  to  be 
the  attendance  of  Li su arte  for  a  twelvemonth,  wherever 
she  chose  to  demand.  Now  this  lady  was  in  the  interest 
of  the  pagans,  and  had  fallen  on  this  device  to  remove 
Lisuarte,  who  was  the  chief  support  of  the  Grecian  throne. 
The  emperor  of  Trebizond  was  informed  of  her  stratagem 
soon  after  the  departure  of  Lisuarte,  by  a  letter  which  was 
closed  with  sixty-seven  seals,  and  which  also  announced 
that  Constantinople  was  about  to  be  besieged  by  Armato, 
the  Turkish  soldan,  who  had  placed  himself  at  the  head  of 
a  league  of  sixty -seven  j^rinces — a  coalition  ingeniously 
denoted  by  the  number  of  seals. 

Lisuarte,  meanwhile,  was  delivered  in  charge  to  the 
king  of  the  G-iants'  Isle,  whose  daughter  Gradaffile  fell  in 
love  with  the  prisoner,  procured  his  escape,  and  followed 
him  to  Constantinople.  There  Lisuarte  performed  many 
feats  of  valour  in  combating  the  j^agan  enemies  by  whom 
the  city  was  now  besieged,  and  was  soon  assisted  in  the 
defence  by  Perion,  who  arrived  in  Greece  after  having 
accomplished  the  enterprise  in  which  he  had  been  so  long 
engaged.  At  length  Lisuarte  having  obtained  possession 
of  the  fatal  sword,  Amadis  de  Gaul,  Esplandian,  and  the 
Grecian  princes  burst  the  enchantment  into  which  they 
had  been  lulled  by  Urganda,  in  the  Firm  Island.  The 
city  being  relieved  by  the  return  of  these  potent  and 
refreshed  auxiliaries,  Lisuarte  set  out  for  Trebizond,  but,, 
on  his  way  thither,  met  with  various  adventures  which 
detained  him.  Perion  arrived  before  him,  but  left  Trebi- 
zond for  a  time,  at  the  request  of  the  duchess  of  Austria, 
whom  he  restored  to  her  dominions,  and  received  from  her 
the  highest  reward  she  could  bestow.  In  this  romance 
Lisuarte  is  the  Amadis,  or  constant  lover,  Perion,  the 
Galaor,  or  general  lover.  Perion,  however,  differs  from 
his  prototype  in  this,  that  Galaor  was  altogether  undis- 
tinguishing  in  his  amours,  and  had  no  preference  for  any 
mistress ;  whereas  Perion,  though  guilty  of  occasional  in- 
fidelities, still  retains  the  first  place  in  his  affections  for 
the  princess  of  Trebizond. 

At  length  Perion  and  Lisuarte  meet  at  the  palace  of 
of  their  mistresses,  who,  as  usual,  admit  their  lovers  to 
the  privileges,  before  they  have  possessed  the  characters. 


366  *  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

of  Imsbands.  It  afterwards  occurred  to  them  to  send 
ambassadors  to  Esplandian  and  Amadis  de  Gaul,  to  talk 
of  their  nuptials  :  but,  meanwhile,  the  emperor  of  Trebi- 
zond  and  Perion  were  carried  off  by  pagan  wiles,  dui'ing  a 
hunting  match ;  and  Lisuarte  having  gone  in  quest  of 
them,  came  to  the  spot  where  they  were  detained,  and  was 
imprisoned  in  the  same  confinement. 

While  her  lover  Lisuarte  thus  remained  in  durance,  the 
princess  of  Trebizond  gave  birth  to  a  son,  afterwards 
known  bv  the  name  of 


Amadis  of  Greece,^ 

whose  adventures,  blended  with  those  of  his  sempiternal 
ancestry,  form  the  ninth  book  of  the  family  history,  which 
is  feigned,  in  the  commencement  of  the  second  part,  to 
have  been  imitated  in  Latin  from  the  Greek,  and  thence 
translated  into  the  Romance  language  :  "  Sacada  de  Griego 
in  Latin,  y  de  Latin  en  romance,  segun  lo  escrivio  el  gran 
sabio  Alquife  en  las  magicas." 

The  imprudent  anticipation  of  Onoloria  rendered  con- 
cealment necessary,  and,  during  the  baj)tism  of  her  infant, 
which  was  performed  at  a  retired  fountain,  he  was  carried 
off  by  corsairs,  and  sold  by  them  to  the  Moorish  king  of 
Saba  (Sheva).  It  has  been  remarked,  that  the  lineage  of 
Amadis  generally  had  from  infancy  some  striking  personal 
peculiarity,  which,  in  the  untoward  circumstances  of  their 
i3irth  and  childhood,  was  essential  to  a  future  acknow- 
ledgment by  their  parents.  Amadis  of  Greece  was  dis- 
tinguishable by  the  representation  of  a  sword  on  his  breast. 
Hence,  when,  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  he  obtained  some 
order  of  chivalry  from  the  king  of  Saba,  he  assumed  the 
name  of  the  Knight  of  the  Flaming  Sword.  A  black 
courtier  being  jealous  of  the  favour  which  He  of  the 
Flaming  Sword  enjoyed  with  the  king,  accused  him  to 
his  master  of  a  criminal  intrigue  with  the  queen.  Amadis 
was  obliged  privately  to  escape  from  the  wrath  of  the  in- 
censed monarch,  and  thus  at  an  early  age  enters  on  the 
career  of  adventure. 

^  Amadis  de  Grecia  hijo  de  Don  Lisuarte.     Burgos,  1535. 


CH.  v.]  AMADIS    OF    GREECE.  367 

The  exploits  in  tliis  romance  commence,  as  they  did 
in  that  of  Esplandian,  at  the  Forbidden  Mountain. 
Amadis,  who  was  yet  an  obdurate  heathen,  defeated  and 
expelled  the  Christian  possessors  who  held  it  for  the 
Greeks,  and  aftei-wards  defended  it  in  single  combat 
against  the  Emperor  Esplandian  himself,  who  came  in 
2>erson  to  recover  that  important  citadel.  After  this  he 
fell  in  with  the  king  of  Sicily ;  their  acquaintance  com- 
menced with  a  combat,  but  Amadis  subsequently  aided 
him  in  various  enterprises,  to  which  he  was  stimulated  by 
the  passion  he  had  conceived  for  this  monarch's  daughter. 

In  the  course  of  his  navigation  to  Sicily,  Amadis  arrived 
at  an  island  where  he  disenchanted  the  emperor  of  Trebi- 
zond,  Lisuarte,  Perion,  and  G-radaffile.  These  princes,  and 
their  female  companion  Gradaffile,  as  was  mentioned  in 
the  end  of  the  last  romance,  had  been  carried  off  by  pagan 
stratagems,  and  were  lying  in  the  dormant  state  into 
which  they  had  been  lulled  by  the  sorcery  of  a  pagan 
princess,  in  the  same  manner,  though  with  different  views, 
that  their  ancestors  had  been  put  to  rest  by  Urganda. 
"When  these  heroes  were  completely  roused,  Amadis  de 
Gaul  having  set  out  in  quest  of  adventures,  met  with  the 
queen  of  Saba,  who  was  scouring  the  seas  in  search  of  a 
champion  to  defend  her  against  the  false  charge  of  conjugal 
infidelity.  Amadis  espoused  her  quarrel,  and  having 
arrived  in  Saba,  overthrew  her  accuser,  and  established  to 
the  satisfaction  of  the  king  the  innocence  of  his  wife,  and 
his  Eleve  of  the  Flaming  Sword. 

After  the  account  of  this  exploit,  a  considerable  portion 
of  the  romance  is  occupied  with  the  unremitting  pursuit, 
by  Amadis  of  Greece,  of  a  knight  whom  he  erroneously 
imagined  to  be  in  love  with  the  princess  of  Sicily,  because 
he  overheard  him  reciting  amorous  verses.  He  long  j^ur- 
sued  liim  with  unabating  animosity,  and  met  with  many 
adventures  during  his  chase  ;  but  was  at  length  undeceived 
at  a  personal  interview,  at  which  he  seems  to  have  learned, 
for  the  first  time,  that  there  could  be  other  subjects  of 
amatory  verses  besides  the  2)rincess  of  Sicily. 

"Wliile  Amadis  was  thus  occupied,  his  father  Lisuarte 
had  returned  to  Trebizond,  and  had  formally  requested 
the  hand  of  Onoloria.     Unfortimately  for  his  jiretensions, 


368  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V, 

Zario,  sultan  of  Babylon,  had  become  enamoured  of  this 
princess  in  a  dream,  and  had  arrived  at  Trebizond,  accom- 
panied by  his  sister  Abra,  to  demand  her  in  marriage. 
His  propositions  were  much  relished  by  the  emj^eror,  but, 
being  of  course  opposed  by  Lisuarte,  the  sultan  resorted 
to  warlike  measures  to  obtain  possession  of  Onoloria ;  he 
accordingly  besieged  Trebizond,  but  the  champions  he 
selected  to  decide  his  pretensions  were  defeated  by  G-radaf- 
file,  who  appeared  in  the  disguise  of  a  knight.  The  sultan 
afterwards  forcibly  carried  off  the  object  of  his  jDassion, 
but  his  fleet  was  encountered  by  Amadis  de  Gaul,  who  was 
sailing  to  the  relief  of  Trebizond.  Onoloria  was  rescued^ 
and  the  sultan  himself  was  slain. 

Abra,  his  sister,  succeeded  to  the  throne  of  Babylon. 
This  princess,  when  she  accompanied  her  brother  to  Trebi- 
zond, had  become  enamoured  of  Lisuarte:  her  suit  had 
been  rejected,  and  the  pangs  of  ill-requited  affection,  added 
to  the  desire  of  avenging  the  death  of  her  brother,  induced 
her  to  raise  up  knights  in  all  parts  of  the  world  to  attempt 
the  destruction  of  Lisuarte.  One  of  her  damsels,  while  on 
this  quest,  met  with  Amadis  of  Greece,  and  made  him 
promise  to  grant  her  mistress  the  head  of  Lisuarte  as  a. 
gift.  Hence,  on  the  arrival  of  Amadis  at  Trebizond,  there 
was  a  dreadful  combat  between  the  father  and  son,  which 
must  have  terminated  fatally  to  one  or  other,  had  it  not 
been  broken  off  by  the  appearance  of  Urganda,  who  now 
revealed  that  Amadis  was  the  offspring  of  Lisuarte. 

This,  however,  was  but  an  incidental  exploit  on  the  part 
of  Amadis  ;  his  attention  had  lately  been  engrossed  by 
objects  different  from  those  by  which  it  had  been  formerly 
absorbed.  Niquea,  the  daughter  of  an  eastern  soldan,  had 
fallen  in  love  with  Amadis  by  report,  and  had  already 
despatched  conciliatory  messages,  and  sent  a  gift  of  her 
portrait  by  a  favourite  dwarf.  Like  the  princess  in  the 
Persian  Tales,  Niquea  was  of  such  resplendent  beauty, 
that  all  who  beheld  her  died,  or  at  least  were  deprived  of 
reason.  She  was  in  consequence  shut  up  by  her  father  in 
an  almost  inaccessible  tower,  to  which  her  family  alone 
had  admittance  ;  and  afterwards,  to  preserve  her  from  the 
passion  of  her  brother  Anastarax,  this  prince  was  enclosed 
by  the  magician  Zirfea  in  a  magic  palace,  surrounded  by 


CH.  v.]  AMADIS    OF    GREECE.  369 

impassable  flames.  The  view  of  the  portrait  of  this  beauty 
overcame  the  fidelity  which  Amadis  had  hitherto  j^reserved 
to  the  princess  of  Sicily.  lu  order  to  obtain  access  to  his 
new  mistress,  Amadis,  soon  after  the  period  of  his  late 
combat  with  Lisiiarte,  so  arranged  matters  that  he  was 
sold,  in  the  disguise  of  a  female  slave,  to  her  father  the 
soldan  ;  he  thus  obtained  admittance  to  his  daughter,  and, 
after  a  promise  of  marriage,  was  received  by  her  in  the 
character  of  a  husband. 

Meanwhile,  Abra  being  disappointed  in  the  issue  of  the 
combat  between  Amadis  and  Lisuarte,  assembled  a  great 
army,  and  led  it  against  Trebizond.  Her  forces  were 
totally  defeated,  but  Onoloria  dying  about  this  time, 
Lisuarte,  at  the  persuasion  of  Gradaffile,  finally  agreed  to 
espouse  the  Babylonian  queen. 

The  situation  of  Niquea  now  requiring  retirement  from 
a  father's  observation,  she  eloped  with  Amadis,  and  soon 
after  arrived  with  him  at  Trebizond,  where  she  was 
solemnly  espoused,  and  gave  birth  to  a  son,  named  Florisel 
de  Niquea. 

That  part  of  the  family  history  which  relates  particu- 
larly to  the  exploits  of  Amadis  of  Greece,  concludes,  like 
the  romance  of  Esplandian,  with  the  enchantment  of  all 
the  Greek  heroes  and  princesses  by  Zirfea,  in  the  Tower  of 
the  Universe,  in  order  that  they  might  evade  the  period 
appointed  for  their  decease.  There  everything  that  passed 
in  the  universe  was  magically  exhibited  ;  a  display  which 
this  assembly,  while  seated  in  easy  chairs,  was  destined  to 
contemplate  at  leisure  for  the  ensuing  century. 

This  romance  of  Amadis  of  Greece,  and  all  its  succes- 
sors, have  suffered  the  severest  censure  from  Cervantes. 
"  Tlie  next,  said  the  barber,  is  Amadis  of  Greece,  yea,  and 
all  these  on  this  side  are  of  the  lineage  of  Amadis.  Then 
into  the  yard  with  them  all,  quoth  the  priest,  for  rather 
than  not  burn  the  queen  Pintiquinestra,  and  the  shepherd 
Darinel,  with  his  eclogues,  and  the  devilish  intricate  dis- 
courses of  its  author,  I  would  burn  the  father  who  begot 
me,  did  I  meet  him  in  the  garb  of  a  knight  errant."  It  is 
in  the  10th  book  of  Amadis  de  Gaul,  which  is  feigned  to 
have  been  written  by  Cirfea,  queen  of  the  Argives,  and 
which  chiefly  contains  the  adventures  of 

I.  B  B 


370  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 


Florisel  de  Niqtjea,* 

son  of  Amadis  of  Greece  and  Niqnea,  that  the  character  of 
Darinel,  which  seems  so  strongly  to  have  excited  the  rage 
of  Cervantes,  is  exhibited.  This  shepherd  is  a  new  cha- 
racter in  romance,  being  an  amorous  pastoral  buffoon,  who 
is  in  love  with  Sylvia,  the  heroine  of  the  work.  Sylvia  was 
the  fruit  of  one  of  the  stolen  interviews  of  Lisuarte  and 
Onoloria ;  she  of  course  was  removed  from  her  parents  in 
her  infancy,  and  had  been  educated  in  the  vicinity  of 
Alexandria.  As  she  grew  up  she  was  beloved  by  Darinel, 
a  neighbouring  swain ;  but  as  the  fair  one  exercised  un- 
usual rigour  towards  her  lover,  he  resolved  to  expose  him- 
seK  to  perish  on  the  top  of  the  highest  mountain  in  the 
empire  of  Babylon.  In  this  region  he  met  with  Florisel, 
who  was  at  that  time  residing  at  the  Babylonish  court.  To 
this  prince,  Darinel  gave  such  an  animated  description  of 
the  beauty  of  Sylvia,  that  he  disguised  himself  as  a  shep- 
herd, and  prevailed  on  Darinel  to  conduct  him  to  her 
abode.  Sylvia  was  as  unrelenting  to  the  pretended  as  she 
had  been  to  the  real  shepherd;  but,  on  hearing  from 
Florisel  an  account  of  the  enchantment  of  Anastarax,  who 
was  still  enclosed  in  his  fiery  palace,  she  became  enamoured 
of  that  prince,  and  persuaded  Florisel,  and  also  Darinel, 
(who  had  for  a  time  relinquished  his  scheme  of  exposure 
on  the  top  of  the  highest  mountain  of  Babylon,)  to  set  out 
with  her  to  attempt  his  deliverance.  They  departed  to- 
gether, but  having  arrived  at  the  spot,  they  understood 
that  this  adventure  was  reserved  for  Alastraxare,  an  Ama- 
zon, who  was  the  fruit  of  an  amour  between  the  queen  of 
Caucasus  and  Amadis  of  Greece.  The  achievements  of 
Alastraxare  occupy  a  considerable  part  of  the  romance ; 
and  in  their  search  for  this  heroine,  the  pastoral  party 
met  with  many  adventures,  of  which  the  chief  is  that  of 
Florisel  with  Arlanda,  princess  of  Thrace,  who  had  fallen 
in  love  with  him  by  report,  followed  him  in  his  travels, 
and,  finally,  contrived  to  gratify  her  passion,  by  coming  to 
him  in  the  dusk,  disguised  in  the  clothes  of  Sylvia. 

1  El  deceno  libro  de  Amadis,  que  es  el  cronica  de  Don  Florisel  de 
Niquea,  hijo  de  Amadis  de  Grecia. — Valladolid,  1532. 


CH.  v.]  FLORISEL    DE    NIQUEA.  371 

At  lengftli  Sylvia  was  separated  from  Florisel  and  Dari- 
nel  duriiii?  a  tempest,  and  returned  to  the  flaming  prison, 
or  hell,  as  it  is  called,  of  Anastarax.  There  she  met  Alas- 
traxare,  and  their  united  efforts  accomplished  the  disen- 
chantment. Nearly  at  the  same  time  there  arrived  at  this 
spot  a  number  of  the  Greek  princes,  who  were  travelling  to 
the  Tower  of  the  Universe,  to  attempt  the  deliverance  of 
their  kindred.  Sylvia  was  then  discovered  to  be  the 
daughter  of  Lisuarte,  and  was  soon  after  united  to  her  be- 
loved Anastarax. 

Meanwhile  Florisel  and  Darinel  had  been  driven  to  the 
coast  of  Apolonia,  where  Florisel,  forgetting  Sylvia,  be- 
came enamoured  of  Helena,  princess  of  that  country,  but 
was  soon  forced  to  leave  his  new  mistress,  and,  during  his 
absence,  accomjjlished  the  deliverance  of  his  kindi-ed ;  an 
adventure,  the  completion  of  which  had  all  along  been  re- 
served for  him. 

On  his  way  back  to  Aj^olonia  he  landed  at  Colchos, 
where  he  met  with  Alastraxare.  Falanges,  a  G-reek  knight, 
and  the  constant  companion  of  Florisel  in  his  expeditions, 
fell  in  love  with  and  finally  espoused  this  Amazon.  Flori- 
sel, on  his  arrival  in  Apolonia,  found  his  mistress,  Helena, 
on  the  eve  of  a  marriage  with  the  prince  of  Gaul,  an  infi- 
delity to  which  she  had  been  constrained  by  her  father ; 
but  Florisel  interrupted  the  marriage  ceremony,  by  carry- 
ing off  the  bride.  This  rape  of  the  second  Helen,  as  she 
is  termed,  produced  a  great  war.  The  forces  of  all  the 
potentates  of  the  west  of  Euroj^e  laid  siege  to  Constanti- 
nople, and  defeated  the  Greek  army,  chiefly  by  aid  of  the 
Russians.  The  savage  monarch  of  that  j^eople,  however, 
offended  that  his  assistance  had  not  been  solicited  by 
either  party,  was  anxious  for  the  destruction  of  both.  Ac- 
cordingly the  Greeks  having  made  an  attempt  to  retrieve 
matters,  the  Russians  unexpectedly  fell  on  their  former 
allies,  and  thus  delivered  Constantinoj^le  from  the  western 
invasion,  and  secured  Florisel  in  the  possession  of  Helena. 

Here  the  romance  might  have  received  termination,  and 
the  reader  repose,  but  there  yet  remain  two-thirds  of  the 
family  history,  and  the  adventures  of  a  long  series  of 
heroes,  who  of  course  must  be  ushered  in  by  an  account  of 
the  previous  amours  of  their  ancestors.   Amadis  of  Greece, 


372  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

in  pursuing  the  treacherous  Russians,  to  whom  his  country 
had  been  so  much  indebted,  and  who  set  sail  immediately- 
after  their  late  notable  exploit,  was  driven  on  a  desert 
island,  where  he  resolved  to  stay  and  do  penance,  on  ac- 
count of  his  infidelity  to  the  princess  of  Sicily.^  Here  he 
remained  till  that  princess  accidentally  landed  on  the  island, 
and,  after  the  proper  expostulations,  persuaded  him  to  re- 
turn to  his  wife  Niquea.  Meanwhile  the  G-reek  knights, 
particularly  Florisel  and  Falanges,  had  set  out  in  quest  of 
Amadis,  and  had  arrived  at  the  isle  of  Guinday.  Sidonia, 
the  queen  of  this  country,  proposed  to  marry  Falanges ; 
but,  as  he  was  scrupulous  in  maintaining  his  fidelity  to 
Alastraxare,  Florisel  agreed  to  substitute  himself  in  the 
place  of  his  friend,  and  accordingly  espoused  her  majesty 
under  the  feigned  name  of  Moraizel.  He  soon  after  aban- 
doned his  bride,  but  the  effect  of  this  short  intei'course  was 
the  birth  of  Diana,  the  most  beautiful  of  all  the  princesses 
of  romance,  and  heroine  of  the  eleventh  and  twelfth  books 
of  this  enormous  history,  which  chiefly  contain  the  adven- 
tures of 

AOESILAN    OF    COLCHOS, 

son  of  Falanges  and  Alastraxare.  A  representation  of  the 
figure  of  the  incomparable  Diana  having  been  rashly  ex- 
hibited at  Athens,  where  Agesilan  was  prosecuting  his 
studies,  he  was  inspired  with  such  an  irresistible  passion, 
that  he  repaired,  in  the  disguise  of  a  female  minstrel,  to 
the  court  of  Queen  Sidonia,  the  mother  of  his  mistress,  and 
was  presented  to  her  daughter  as  an  amusing  companion. 
Here  he  occasionally  entertained  the  court  ladies  by  the 
exercise  of  his  musical  and  poetical  talents,  but  at  other 
times  distinguished  himself  as  an  amazon,  in  combating 
the  knights,  who  on  various  pretexts  came  to  molest 
Sidonia.  The  circumstance  of  a  lover  residing  with  his 
mistress,  and  unknown  to  her,  in  disguise  of  a  female,  is 
frequent  in  subsequent  romances,  as  in  the  Astraea,  the 
Arcadia  and  Argenis,  and  its  origin  must  be  looked  for  in 
the  story  of  the  concealment  of  Achilles. 

^  V.  Schmidt  remarks  that  the  relations  between  Armadis  and 
Armida  have  supplied  Tasso  with  the  situation  of  his  Rinaldo  and 
Armida. 


<:H.  V,]  AGESILAN    OF    COLCHOS.  373 

A^esilan  at  length  having  sufficiently  signalized  himself 
by  his  exploits,  appeared  in  his  real  character,  and  under- 
took to  bring  Sidonia  the  head  of  Florisel,  against  whom, 
since  he  had  married  and  abandoned  her,  under  the  name 
of  Moraizel,  she  had  conceived  the  most  bitter  resentment. 
In  prosecution  of  this  scheme,  Agesilan  repaired  to  Con- 
stantinople, and  defied  Florisel  to  mortal  fight.  It  was 
arranged  that  this  combat  should  take  place  in  the 
dominions  of  Sidonia,  but  it  v^as  there  discovered,  on  the 
an'ival  of  the  champions,  that  Floiisel  might  be  turned  to 
better  account  by  employing  him  in  defence  of  the  island, 
which  had  been  recently  invaded  by  the  Russians.  Having 
got  rid  of  these  enemies,  Agesilan  and  Diana  were  affianced, 
and  the  general  joy  was  increased  by  the  arrival  of  the 
elder  and  younger  Amadis.  The  Greek  princes  then  set 
sail  for  Constantinople,  where  it  was  intended  that  the 
nuptials  of  Agesilan  and  Diana  should  be  solemnized.  A 
tempest  having  arisen  during  the  voyage,  Agesilan  and 
Diana  were  separated  from  the  rest  of  their  kindred,  and 
thrown  together  on  a  desert  rock,  where  they  would  have 
perished,  had  not  a  knight  mounted  on  a  griffin  picked 
them  up,  and  conveyed  them  to  his  residence  in  the  Green 
Isle,  one  of  the  Canaries.  Next  morning  their  preserver 
having  become  enchanted  with  the  beauty  of  Diana, 
privately  carried  her  off  to  a  remote  part  of  the  island,  and 
was  proceeding  to  give  her  the  most  lively  demonstrations 
of  attachment,  when  she  was  rescued  by  corsairs  who  had 
accidentally  landed,  and  was  conveyed  on  board  their 
vessel.  Agesilan  having  missed  their  host,  and  being  also 
unable  to  find  Diana,  set  out  in  quest  of  her  on  the  griffin. 
Having  in  vain  surveyed  the  island  from  the  back  of  this 
winged  monster,  he  traversed  many  other  atmospheres, 
and  at  length  descended  in  the  country  of  the  Giramantes. 
The  king  of  this  region,  on  account  of  his  pride,  had  been 
struck  blind,  and  had  been  sentenced  to  have  the  food  pre- 
pared for  hini  devoured  by  a  nauseous  dragon,  which  was 
now  driven  off  by  Agesilan.  This  story  corresponds  with 
that  in  the  Orlando  Furioso  [c.  33.  st.  102,  &c.],  of  Senapus, 
king  of  Ethiopia,  who,  on  account  of  his  overweening  pride, 
had  been  deprived  of  sight,  and  had  his  food  daily  polluted 
by  harpies,  till  relieved  by  Astolpho,  who  descended  as 


374  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

from  heaven  on  a  winged  steed.  Besides  these  circum- 
stances of  resemblance,  the  nations,  both  in  the  poem  and 
romance,  are  of  the  Christian  faith,  both  monarchs  reside 
in  the  most  sumptuous  palaces,  and  both  deliverers  are 
mistaken  for  deities  on  their  descent.  The  origin  of  these, 
as  of  most  other  stories  of  the  same  sort,  is  classical,  and 
is  derived  from  the  story  of  Phineus  and  the  Harpies  in 
the  Argonautics  of  ApoUonius  Rhodius  : — 

Thei-e  on  the  margin  of  the  beating  flood, 

The  mournful  mansions  of  sad  Phineus  stood  : 

Taught  by  the  wise  Apollo  to  descry 

Unborn  events  of  dark  futurity, 

Vain  of  his  science,  the  presumptuous  seer 

Deigned  not  JoA-e's  awful  secrets  to  revere  ; 

Hence  Jove,  indignant,  gave  him  length  of  daj's, 

But  quenched  in  endless  night  his  visual  rays  ; 

Nor  would  the  vengeful  god  indulge  his  taste 

With  the  sweet  blessings  of  a  pure  repast, 

Though  (for  they  learned  his  fate),  the  country  round 

Their  prophet's  board  with  every  dainty  crowned. 

For,  lo  !  descending  sudden  from  the  sky, 

Eound  the  piled  banquet  shrieking  harpies  fly, 

Whose  beaks  rapacious,  and  whose  talons,  tear 

Quick  from  his  famished  lips  the  untasted  fare. 

Fawkes  Ap.  Rhodius,  b.  2. 

The  Argonauts  touch  at  the  mansion  of  Phineus  on  their 
voyage  to  Colchos,  and  two  of  their  number,  the  winged 
children  of  Boreas,  deliver  the  prophet  from  this  dis- 
turbance. 

After  having  re-installed  the  king  of  the  Garamantes  in 
the  pleasures  of  a  comfortable  meal,  Agesilan  set  out  on 
the  farther  quest  of  Diana,  and  arrived  at  the  Desolate 
Isle.  The  god  Tervagant  had  fallen  in  love  with  the  queen 
of  this  country ;  but,  being  baulked  in  his  amour,  had  let 
loose  a  band  of  destructive  hobgoblins,  who  ravaged  the 
land.  An  oracle  of  the  god  declared,  that  Tervagant  would 
only  be  appeased,  if  the  inhabitants  daily  exposed  on  the 
sea- shore  a  fresh  beauty,  till  such  time  as  he  found  one  he 
liked  as  well  as  the  queen.  As  the  fair  offering  to  the 
fastidious  god  was  every  day  devoured  by  a  sea-monster, 
the  island  was  now  nearly  depopulated,  and  corsairs  were 
employed  to  ravage  other  countries,  in  quest  of  victims. 
Diana  had  fallen  into  the  hands  of  this  crew,  and,  on  her 


CH.  v.]  AGESILAN  'OF    COLCHOS.  375 

arrival,  was  bound  to  the  rock.  That  very  day  Agesilan 
descended  on  his  griffin,  and  offered  his  services  against 
the  sea-monster.  On  proceeding  to  the  place  of  combat, 
the  discovery  of  the  situation  of  his  mistress  invigorated 
his  exertions.  Having  slain  the  monster  after  a  dreadful 
combat,  he  placed  his  beloved  Diana  on  his  hippogriff, 
and  skimmed  with  her  towards  Constantinople. 

It  may  be  remembered,  that  in  the  Orlando  Furioso 
[c.  8],  Proteus,  being  offended  at  the  bad  treatment  the 
princess  of  Eubuda  had  received,  in  consequence  of  an 
affair  of  gallantry  in  which  she  had  engaged  with  him, 
commissioned  herds  of  marine  monsters  to  depopulate  the 
country,  and  would  only  be  appeased  by  a  daily  offering  of 
a  damsel,  to  glut  an  ork  which  was  stationed  on  the  shore, 
in  readiness  to  receive  her.  Angelica  was  brought  to  this 
country  by  seamen,  who  scoured  the  main  for  victims,  and 
was  bound  to  the  fatal  rock  when  delivered  by  Euggiero, 
who  arrived  on  his  winged  courser.  This,  like  the  story 
of  the  blind  king  and  the  dragon,  is  of  classical  origin,  and 
has  been  doubtless  suggested  by  the  fiction  of  Perseus  and 
Andromeda. 

On  his  flight  to  Constantinople,  Agesilan  spied  beneath 
him  the  ship  of  Amadis,  from  which  he  had  been  originally 
separated,  and  which  was  still  on  its  voyage.  He  dexte- 
rously alighted  on  this  vessel,  and  proceeded  with  the  rest 
of  his  kindred  to  the  Orecian  capital,  where  his  nuptials 
were  solemnized  with  Diana. 

Agesilan  of  Colchos  is  the  faithful  lover  of  this  part  of 
the  family  chronicle.  Eogel  of  Oreece,  whose  adventures 
occupy  a  considerable  part  of  the  romance,  is  the  G-alaor, 
or  general  lover.  He  was  the  son  of  Florisel  and  Helena, 
and  is,  I  think,  by  far  the  most  rakish  of  his  kindred.  It 
is  true  he  is  specially  attached  to  Leonida,  a  Greek  princess, 
whom  he  finally  marries ;  but,  at  the  solicitation  of  any 
damsel,  he  sets  out  to  the  relief  of  her  mistress :  he  usually 
begins  the  adventure  by  an  intrigue  with  the  ambassadress, 
and  concludes  by  an  amour  with  the  lady  he  had  served. 

The  reader,  I  presume,  does  not  wish  any  farther  to 
pursue  the  involved  genealogy  of  the  romantic  issue  of 
Amadis,  and  a  few  words  will  bring  us  to  the  latest 
posterity. 


376  HISTORY    OI*  FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

Many  of  the  chief  heroes  of  the  family  of  Amadis  pos- 
sess a  sentimental  and  platonic  female  friend,  like  the 
G-radaflQle  of  Lisuarte.  Finistea  acted  in  this  capacity  to 
Amadis  of  Greece,  and  attended  him  in  his  long  quest  of 
his  empress  Niquea,  who  had  been  carried  off  while  on  her 
way  to  visit  her  father.  In  the  course  of  their  peregrina- 
tions, Amadis  and  Finistea  came  to  a  desert  island,  where, 
having  partaken  of  a  certain  fruit,  they  totally  divested 
themselves  of  their  platonic  habits,  and  a  son  was  in 
consequence  produced,  who,  from  the  place  of  his  birth,  was 
called 

Silvio  de  la  Selva.^ 

This  prince  first  distinguished  himself  at  the  siege  of 
Constantinople  by  the  Eussians,  whose  king  had  lately 
transmitted,  by  twelve  dwarfs,  a  defiance  to  the  G-recian 
princes,  in  which  he  mentioned  that  he  had  entered  into  a 
confederacy  with  a  hundred  and  sixty  eastern  monarchs,  to 
burn  all  the  habitations  of  the  Greeks,  that  they  might  be 
rebuilt  on  an  improved  plan  by  his  subjects  the  Eussians. 
A  long  account  is  given  of  the  war,  which  terminated  suc- 
cessfully for  the  besieged ;  but  they  are  hardly  freed  from 
their  Eussian  foes,  when  the  whole  bevy  of  Greek  empresses 
and  princesses  are  carried  off  by  one  fell  stroke  of  necro- 
mancy. All  the  knights  and  heroes  set  out  in  search  of 
them,  and  meet  with  the  accustomed  adventures,  in  which 
Silvio  de  la  Selva  particularly  distinguishes  himself.  After 
the  princesses  are  brought  back  to  their  own  habitations, 
it  is  found  that,  during  their  absence,  many  have  given 
birth  to  children.  Spheramond,  son  of  Eogel  of  Greece, 
and  Amadis  of  Astre,  son  of  Agesilan,  are  of  the  number. 
When  Spheramond  and  Amadis  grow  uj),  they  are  both 
sent  to  Parthia,  for  it  was  destined  they  should  be  there 
admitted  into  the  order  of  chivalry.  Here  they  fall  in  love 
with  two  Parthian  princesses,  Eosaliana  and  Eicharda, 
whom  they  espouse  after  they  have  gone  through  the  requi- 
site number  of  adventures.  Among  others,  they  had  been 
present  at  a  great  battle  between  the  Christians  and 
Pagans,  who,  as  usual,  had  besieged  Constantinople.     In 

^  Hechos  de  Silvio  de  la  Selva,  hijo  de  Amadis  de  Gi'ecia. 


-CH.  v.]  SILVIO    DE    LA    SELVA.  377 

this  combat  the  king  of  the  Island  of  Terror  was  slain  on 
the  side  of  the  paynims.  His  widow  resolves  to  be  avenged, 
and  acconipHshes  her  purpose  by  carrying  away  the  young 
prince  Saphiraman,  son  of  Spheraniond  and  the  j^rincess 
Richarda,  as  also  Hercules  d'Astre,  son  of  Amadis  d'Astre 
and  Rosaliana.  These  two  princes  are  shut  uj)  in  an  im- 
pregnable tower ;  and  the  adventures  of  different  knights 
who  attempt  their  deliverance  are  related  at  great  length. 
This  is  tinally  effected  by  Fulgarine,  son  of  Rogel  of 
Greece ;  and  the  family  history  concludes  with  the  exploits 
of  these  princes  after  they  have  received  their  freedom ; 
but  what  relates  to  them  is  chiefly  of  French  invention. 

A  Spanish  romance  concerning  Flores  of  Greece,  sur- 
named  Knight  of  the  Swan,  second  son  of  the  Emperor 
Esplandian,  a  work  also  translated  by  D'Herberay,  may  be 
associated  to  the  history  of  Amadis.  The  adventures  of 
the  Knight  of  the  Sun  ^  and  his  brother  Eosiclair,  may  also 
be  considered  as  belonging  to  the  same  series  of  romance, 
since  Perion,  the  parent  of  Amadis  de  Gaul,  was  descended 
from  Trebatius,  father  to  the  Knight  of  the  Sun.  Nicolas 
Antonio,  in  one  part  of  his  Bibliotheca  Hispaniae,  says, 
that  the  first  two  books  of  this  romance  were  written  by 
Diego  Ortimes,  and  elsewhere  that  they  were  from  the  pen 
of  Pedro  de  la  Sierra.  A  third  part  was  composed  by 
Marcos  Martinez,  and  a  fourth  by  Feliciano  de  Selva : 
Nevertheless  the  work  is  not  finished,  and  the  knights  are 
left  under  enchantment.  Cervantes  says  it  contains  some- 
thing of  the  inventions  of  the  Italian  poet  Boiardo ;  but  I 
imagine  the  Orlando  Innamorato  was  prior  to  the  Spanish 
work.  The  whole  romance  has  been  translated  into  Eng- 
lish, under  the  title  of  the  Mirrour  of  Knighthood,"  and 
into  French  literally  from  the  Sj^anish,  in  eight  volumes. 
It  has  also  been  compressed  into  two  by  the  Marquis  de 
Paulmy,  who  has  used  it  as  a  frame,  in  which  he  has  en- 
■closed  what  he  considered  the  finest  delineations  of  the 

^  Espejo  de  principes  e  cavalleros,  o  Cavallero  del  Febo. — Saragossa, 
1580.  2  vol.  folio. 

-  The  Mirrour  of  Princely  deedes  and  Knighthood  .  .  .  Now  newly 
translated  out  of  Spanish  into  our  vulgar  English  tongue,  by  M[ar- 
garet]  T[iler].  1578.  4to.  This  is  the  first  English  edition  of  the 
ftrst  part  of  this  romance.     Other  portions  appeared  subsequently. 


378  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

whole  family  picture.  The  romantic  story  of  the  issue  of 
Amadis  has  been  wound  up  in  the  Roman  des  Romans, 
a  work  originally  French,  and  written  by  Duverdier. 

The  fables  relating  to  Amadis  de  Gaul,  and  his  lineage, 
often  supplied  with  materials  the  poets  and  dramatists  of 
the  neighbouring  countries.  Both  the  Amadigi  and  Flori- 
dante  of  Bernardo  Tasso  are  formed  on  the  first  work  of 
the  series,  and  innumerable  French  and  Italian  dramas 
have  been  founded  on  incidents  which  occur  in  Amadis  of 
G-reece  and  Agesilan  of  Colchos.  The  romances  of  the 
peninsula,  however,  in  general,  had  less  influence  on  the 
early  literature  of  this  country  than  either  the  French 
romances,  or  Italian  novels.  This  Mr.  Southey  attributes 
to  the  wretched  manner  in  which  the  early  translations  of 
them  were  executed.  He  has  mentioned,  however,  that  in 
Amadis  of  Greece  may  be  found  the  original  of  the  Zel- 
mane  of  Sidney's  "  Arcadia,"  the  Florizel  of  Shakespeare's 
"  Winter's  Tale,"  and  Masque  of  Cupid  in  the  Faery 
Queene. 

Having  now  discussed  the  history  of  Amadis  and  his 
descendants,  we  come  to  the  second  family  chronicle,  car- 
ried on  in  the  romances  of  the  peninsula.  Of  this  new 
series,  the  first  romance,  at  least  considered  in  relation  to 
the  order  of  events,  is 

Palmerin  de  Oliva.^ 

There  is  no  dispute  concerning  the  language  in  which 
this  work  was  originally  written,  as  there  is  with  regard  to 
so  many  of  the  other  tales  of  chivalry  belonging  to  this 
third  class  of  romances.  It  first  appeared  in  Spanish, 
and  was  printed  at  Salamanca  in  1511,  at  Seville  in 
1525,  and,  also  in  Spanish,  at  Venice  in  1526,  and  is 
dedicated,  in  a  prologue,  to  Caesar  Triulsci,  who  was 
then  learning  that  language.  The  work  afterwards  ap- 
peared in  1533,  12mo.,  also  at  Venice,  corrected  by  the 
Spaniard  Juan  Matheo  da  Villa,  and  addressed  to  the 
Senor  Juan  de  Nores  Conde  de  Tripoli,  Emharador  dell 
Universidad  de  Chipro,  who  is  told  that  it  is  dedicated  to 

^  El  libro  del  famoso  Cavallero  Palmerin  de  Olivia  (sic).  Cum  privi- 
legio.     First  edition,  Salamanca,  1511,  fol. 


CH.  v.]  PALMERIN    DE    OLIVA.  379 

him  tliat,  as  he  had  a  taste  for  languages,  he  might  learn 
the  Spanish,  and  that  this  tongue  might  be  ennobled  by 
his  acquiring  it.  In  1546,  there  was  published  at  Paris, 
in  folio,  a  French  version,  of  which  Jean  Maugin,  called 
Le  petit  Angevm,  is  announced  as  the  author.  This  j^ro- 
duction  professes  to  be  revised  and  amended  from  a  former 
French  translation,  which  is  by  an  uncertain  hand,  and 
which,  as  is  acknowledged  in  the  preface,  has  only  drawn 
the  matiere  prmcipale  from  the  Spanish.  Accordingly, 
Maugin,  who  wrought  on  it,  has  enlarged  in  some  places 
on  the  original,  and  abridged  in  others ;  the  mode  of  war- 
fare too  has  been  altered,  and  the  love  intrigues  have  been 
Frenchified  and  modernized.  This  edition  is  adorned  with 
cuts,  which  might  suit  any  Spanish  romance  of  chivalry, 
and  are  in  fact  adopted  in  the  French  edition  of  Amadis 
of  Greece ;  they  represent  a  lady  in  child-bed — a  young 
man  receiving  the  order  of  knighthood —an  equestrian 
combat — a  city  scaled — ships  in  a  storm — an  interview  be- 
tween a  lady  and  knight.  The  romance  of  Palmerin  de 
Oliva  was  also  translated  into  English  by  Anthony  Mun- 
dav,  and  published  in  the  year  1588,  4to.,  in  black 
letter.' 

Like  many  other  heroes  of  Spanish  romances,  the  knight 
who  gives  name  to  this  work  was  of  illegitimate  birth. 
Eeymicio,  the  eighth  emperor  of  Constantinople  from 
Constantine,  had  a  daughter  named  Griana,  whom  he 
destined  as  the  wife  of  Tarisius,  son  to  the  king  of  Hun- 
gary, and  nephew  to  the  empress.  The  princess  Griana, 
however,  preferred  Florendos  of  Macedon,  with  whom  she 
had  an  interview  one  night  in  an  orchard,  of  which  the 
consequence  was  the  production  of  the  hero  of  this  romance. 
Griana,  by  pretending  sickness,  concealed  her  pregnancy  ; 
and  on  the  birth  of  the  child  she  entrusted  him  to  one  of 
her  confidants  to  be  exposed.  The  infant  was  discovered 
by  a  peasant  in  the  neighbourhood,  who  carried  him  to  his 
cottage,  brought  him  up  as  his  son,  and  bestowed  on  him 
the  name  of  Palmerin  d'Oliva,  from  his  being  found  on  a 
hill  which  was  covered  with  olives  and  palms.  Palmerin 
was  for  a  time  contented  with  his  humble  destiny,  but  when. 

^  And,  according  to  Lowndes,  by  Thomas  Creed  in  1586.     4to. 


380  HISTORY    OF   FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

lie  grew  up  and  discovered  that  he  was  not  tlie  son  of  his 
reputed  father,  he  longed  to  signalize  himself  by  feats  of 
arms. 

One  day,  while  in  a  forest,  Palmerin  had  an  opportunity 
of  delivering  from  the  jaws  of  a  lioness  a  merchant  who 
was  returning  to  his  own  country  from  Constantinople. 
Our  hero  was  taken  to  the  city  of  Hermide  by  the  person  he 
had  preserved,  and  there  furnished  with  arms  and  a  horse. 
Thus  equipped,  he  proceeded  to  the  court  of  Macedon  to 
receive  the  order  of  knighthood  from  Florendos,  who  was 
son  to  the  king  of  that  country,  and  (though  this  was  un- 
knoAvn  to  both  parties)  the  father  of  Palmerin. 

After  obtaining  the  honour  he  required,  the  first  exploit 
of  our  young  hero  was  destroying  a  serpent  that  guarded  a 
fountain,  of  which  the  waters  were  essential  to  the  recovery 
of  the  health  of  Primaleon,  king  of  Macedon.  While  en- 
gaged in  this  adventure,  he  received  the  privilege  of  being 
proof  against  enchantment  from  certain  fairies  who  resorted 
to  this  fountain,  and  had  a  pique  at  the  serpent. 

The  fame  of  this  exploit  of  Palmerin  being  spread  abroad, 
many  neighbouring  princes  apphed  to  him  for  assistance. 
In  all  the  enterprises  undertaken  at  their  request,  Palmerin 
was  eminently  successful.  At  length,  extending  his  succour 
to  more  distant  quarters,  he  delivered  the  emperor  of  Ger- 
many from  the  knights  by  whom  he  was  besieged  in  the 
town  of  Gand  (Ghent).  Here  Palmerin  fell  in  love  with 
the  emj)eror's  daughter,  Polinarda,  the  heroine  of  the 
romance,  and  who,  before  this  time,  like  the  mistress  of 
Artus  de  la  Bretagne,  had  appeared  to  her  lover  in  a 
dream.  Having  distinguished  himself  at  a  tournament  in 
Germany,  Palmerin  proceeded  to  one  which  had  been  pro- 
claimed in  France  by  the  prince  of  that  country,  for  the 
j)urpose  of  driving  into  his  opponents  a  due  sense  of  the 
peerless  beauty  of  his  mistress,  the  duchess  of  Burgundy : 
but  Palmerin,  of  course,  estabhshed  the  superior  excellence 
of  the  charms  of  Polinarda.  After  his  return  to  Germany, 
this  princess  still  continued  in  the  retirement  in  which  she 
lived  at  the  time  of  his  departure,  but  at  length,  by  the 
intervention  of  his  dwarf  Urgando,  he  was  admitted  to  her 
embraces. 

Now  about  this  time  messengers  arrived  at  court  from 


CH.  v.]  PALMERIN    DE    OLIVA.  381 

the  king  of  Norway,  to  implore  assistance  for  their  master 
in  a  war  in  which  he  was  unfortunately  engaged  with  the 
king  of  England.  The  emperor  agreed  to  send  an  army  to 
his  relief ;  but  Trineus,  the  emperor's  son,  being  enamoured 
of  Agriola,  daughter  of  the  English  monarch,  j^rivately  de- 
parted with  Palmerin,  and  arrived  in  Britain  with  the  view 
of  aiding  the  father  of  his  mistress.  England  now  becomes 
the  chief  theatre  of  adventures,  which  at  length  terminate 
with  the  departure  of  Palmerin  and  Trineus,  who  eloped 
with  Agriola,  the  king's  daughter.  They  all  set  sail  in  the 
same  vessel,  and  during  their  voyage  experienced  a  storm 
of  some  days'  continuance.  When  it  ceased,  they  found 
they  were  somewhat  out  of  their  reckoning,  for  instead  of 
having  reached  the  north  of  Germany,  as  intended,  they 
had  made  the  coast  of  the  Morea.  During  the  calm,  by 
which  the  tempest  was  followed,  Palmerin  landed  at  the 
adjacent  island  of  Calj^a,  for  the  purpose  of  hawking,  a 
diversion  which,  next  to  the  pleasures  of  the  chase,  seems 
to  have  been  the  chief  amusement  of  persons  of  rank,  and 
which  continued  to  be  so  till  the  improvement  in  firearms. 
In  the  absence  of  Palmerin,  the  ship  in  Avhich  he  had  left 
his  friends  was  taken  by  two  Turkish  galleys.  The  prin- 
cess Agriola  was  presented  by  her  captors  to  the  G-rand 
Turk ;  but  Trineus  having  been  set  ashore  on  an  island^ 
which  is  the  counterpart  of  that  of  Circe,  was  converted 
into  a  lapdog. 

Palmerin,  meanwhile,  was  discovered  in  the  island  of 
Calpa  by  Archidiana,  daughter  of  the  sultan  of  Babylon. 
This  lady  carried  him  with  her,  and  took  him  into  her  ser- 
vice, as  did  also  her  cousin  Ardemira,  who  then  resided  at 
the  Babylonish  court.  Palmerin,  however,  maintained  his 
fidelity  to  Polinarda,  and  resisted  the  importunate  solicita- 
tions of  these  princesses.  The  disappointment  had  so 
powerful  an  effect  on  Ardemira,  that  she  burst  a  blood- 
vessel and  expired.  Amaran,  son  of  the  king  of  Phrygia, 
to  whom  she  had  been  affianced,  came,  on  hearing  of  her 
demise,  to  the  court  of  Babylon,  charged  the  j^rincess 
Archidiana  with  her  death,  and  offered  to  maintain  his 
accusation  by  an  appeal  to  arms.  Palmerin  espoused  her 
quarrel,  killed  Amaran  in  single  combat,  and,  in  conse- 
quence, became  a  great  favourite  of  the  soldan,  whom  he 


382  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

assisted  in  carrying  on  a  prosperous  war  against  the  lineage 
of  Amaran.  The  soldan,  elated  with  this  success,  fitted 
out  an  expedition  against  Constantinople,  which  Palmerin 
was  ordered  to  accompany.  Tliat  knight,  however,  seized 
the  ojDportunity  of  a  temj^est,  which  arose  during  the 
voyage,  to  separate  from  the  Asiatic  fleet,  and  forced  the 
seamen  of  his  own  vessel  to  steer  for  a  j^ort  in  Geimany. 
Having  landed,  he  immediately  proceeded  to  the  capital  of 
the  emperor,  where  he  passed  some  time  with  Polinarda. 
After  remaining  fifteen  days,  he  set  out  in  quest  of  Trineus ; 
and  having  arrived  at  Buda,  he  learned  that  Florendos, 
prmce  of  Macedon,  had  lately  slain  Tarisius,  who,  it  will  be 
recollected,  was  his  rival  in  the  affections  of  Griana,  prin- 
cess of  Constantinople,  and  had  been  united  to  her  in  mar- 
riage by  compulsion  of  her  father.  Florendos,  having  been 
taken  captive  by  the  family  of  Tarisius,  had  been  sent  to 
Constantinople,  where  he  was  condemned  to  the  flames 
along  with  Griana,  who  was  susj^ected  as  his  accomplice. 
Palmerin  instantly  repaired  to  Constantinoj^le  ;  maintained 
their  innocence  ;  defeated  their  accusers,  the  nephews  of 
Tarisius ;  and  thus,  though  unknown  to  himself,  preserved 
the  lives  of  his  parents.  While  confined  to  bed,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  wounds  he  had  received  in  their  vindication, 
he  was  visited  by  Griana,  who  discovered,  from  a  mark  on 
his  face,  and  from  his  mentioning  the  place  where  he  had 
been  exposed,  that  he  was  indeed  her  child.  He  was  then 
joyfully  received  by  the  emperor,  and  acknowledged  as  his 
successor ;  his  own  son  and  grandson  having  been  slain  in 
the  battle  with  the  Assyrians,  who,  after  their  separation 
from  Palmerin,  had  landed  in  Greece,  but  had  been  totally 
defeated. 

After  these  events  Palmerin  continued  his  quest  of 
Trineus,  but  in  sailing  over  the  Mediterranean  he  was 
taken  captive  by  the  Turkish  galleys,  and  conducted  to 
the  palace  of  the  Grand  Turk.  There  he  was  instrumental 
in  liberating  the  princess  Agriola  from  the  power  of  that 
monarch.  He  afterwards  arrived  at  the  court  of  a  princess, 
with  whom  Trineus  at  that  time  resided  in  quality  of  her 
dog,  having  been  lately  presented  to  her  by  the  enchantress, 
by  whom  he  was  originally  transformed.  Palmerin  agreed 
to  accompany  this  princess  on  a  visit  which  she  paid  to 


CH.  v.]  PALMERIN    DE    OLIVA.  383 

Mussabelin,  a  Persian  magician,  in  expectation  of  being 
cured  of  a  distemper  in  her  nose.  The  necromancer  in- 
formed her,  at  the  first  consultation,  that  this  cure  could 
only  be  effected  by  the  flowers  of  a  tree  which  grew  in  the 
castle  of  the  Ten  Steps,  an  edifice  which  was  guarded  by 
enchantment.  This  adventure  was  undertaken  and  achieved 
by  Palmerin,  who  gained  the  flowers  of  the  tree,  and  an 
enchanted  bird,  which  was  destined,  in  due  season,  to 
announce  to  him,  by  an  unearthly  shriek,  the  approaching 
termination  of  his  existence.  He  also  i)ut  an  end  to  the 
spells  of  the  castle,  by  which  means  Trineus,  wlio,  in  his 
canine  capacity,  had  accompanied  his  friend  and  owner, 
w^as  restored  to  his  original  form. 

The  exploit  is  followed  by  a  long  series  of  adventures, 
bearing,  however,  a  strong  resemblance  to  those  already 
related ;  new  combats,  new  enchantments,  and  new  soldans 
with  inflammable  daughters.  Palmerin  and  Trineus  at 
length  returned  to  Europe,  and  the  latter  was  soon  after 
married  to  Agriola.  At  the  same  time  Palmerin  espoused 
Polinarda,  and  on  the  death  of  his  grandsire  Reymucio 
ascended  the  throne  of  Constantinople. 

It  has  been  suspected,  from  what  has  been  said  in  some 
Latin  verses  at  the  end  of  Palmerin  d'Oliva,  that  this 
romance  was  written  by  a  woman :  and  if  so,  it  gives  us 
no  very  favourable  impression  of  her  morals.^  Nor  does 
she  atone  for  this  defect  by  genius  or  felicity  of  invention. 
M.  de  Paulmy,  indeed,  prefers  Palmerin  d'Oliva  to  all  the 
romances  of  the  family  history  of  the  Palmerins,  and 
tliinks  it  as   superior  to  them  as  Amadis  de  Gaul  to  its 

^  "  The  Palmerin,"  says  Ticknor,  "  has  generally  been  regarded  as 
Portuguese  in  its  origin  ;  but  this  is  not  true.  It  was  the  work — 
strange  to  say — of  a  carpenter's  daughter  in  Burgos,  and  was  first 
printed  at  Salamanca  in  1511.  ...  A  continuation,  too,  by  the  same  fair 
author  appeared,  called,  in  form,  The  Second  Book  of  Palmerin, 
which  treats  of  the  achievements  of  his  sons,  Primaleon  and  Polendos, 
and  of  which  we  have  an  edition  dated  in  1516."  Ticknor,  however, 
neither  (juotes  the  title,  nor  gives  the  authority  for  his  statement  of  the 
authorship.  Brunet  mentions  an  edition  with  the  title,  La  llistoria 
de  Palmerin  de  Oliva,  traducida  de  Griego  en  espafiol  por  Francisco 
Vasquez.  Salamanca,  a  xxii.  de  Marco  de  1516,"  adding,  iiowever, 
*•  Cctte  edition  semble  avoir  disparu  ;  les  editeurs  de  I'Ensayo  de  una 
Bibl.  Espanola  ne  la  citent  que  d'aprcs  le  Cutologo  de  la  Colombina  con- 
serve a  Seville." 


384  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

contimiations.  But  more  weight  is  to  be  given  to  tlie 
opinion  of  tlie  author  of  Don  Quixote,  and  even  from  the 
abstract  that  has  been  presented,  the  reader  will,  I  thinks 
be  satisfied  of  the  justness  of  the  sentence  by  which 
Cervantes  condemned  it  to  the  flames. — "  Then  opening 
another  volume  he  found  it  to  be  Palmerin  d'Oliva.  Ha  I 
have  I  found  you,  cried  the  curate ;  here,  take  this  Oliva,. 
let  it  be  hewn  in  pieces  and  burnt,  and  the  ashes  scattered 
in  the  air." 

The  next  romance  in  the  series  of  the  Palmerin  histories 
is  that  of 

Primaleon,^ 

son  of  Palmerin  d'Oliva  and  Polinarda,  which  was  written 
originally  in  Castilian,  and  professes  to  be  translated  from, 
the  G-reek  by  Francisco  Delicado.  It  was  first  printed  in 
1616  ;  afterwards  at  Seville  in  1524 ;  at  Venice  in  1534  ; 
Bilboa,  1585  ;  and  Lisbon,  1598.  An  Italian  translation 
was  published  at  Venice  in  1559,  and  a  Prenc^i  one  at 
Lyons  in  1572.  Anthony  Munday  translated  into  English, 
first,  that  part  of  the  romance  which  relates  to  the  exploits 
of  Polendos,  which  was  dedicated,  in  some  Latin  verses,  to 
Sir  Francis  Drake,  and  pubhshed  in  1589.  He  afterwards 
continued  his  labours,  and  produced  the  complete  version 
of  the  romance,  printed  in  1595  and  1619. 

Near  the  commencement  of  this  work  there  are  related 
the  adventures  of  Polendos,  which  form  the  most  inte- 
resting part  of  the  romance  of  Primaleon.  The  first  exploit 
of  this  hero  was  not  brilliant.  While  he  yet  resided  in 
the  court  of  his  mother,  the  queen  of  Tharsus,  returning 
one  day  from  the  chase,  he  perceived  a  little  old  woman 
sitting  on  the  steps  of  the  palace,  and,  on  account  of  some 
imaginary  offence,  kicked  her  to  the  foot  of  the  staircase. 
The  old  lady,  when  she  had  reached  the  bottom,  muttered 
that  it  was  not  so  his  father  Palmerin  d'Oliva  succoured 
the  unfortunate.  Polendos  thus  learned  the  secret  of  his 
birth,  for,  in   fact,  he  was   the    son  of  Palmerin,  whose 

^  Libro  que  trata  de  los  valerosos  Hechos  en  armas  de  Primaleon  hijo 
del  Emperador  Palmerin,  y  de  su  hermano  Polendos,  y  de  Don  Duardos 
Principe  de  Inglateri-a,  y  de  otros  preciados  Cavalleros  de  la  Corte  del 
Emperador  Palmerin. 


CH.   v.]  PLATIR.  385 

fidelity  to  Polinarda  had  been,  on  one  occasion,  overcome 
by  an  intoxicating  beverage  he  had  received  from  the 
queen  of  Tharsus.  The  i^rince  now  burned  to  signalize 
himself  by  more  sj>londid  actions  than  the  one  he  had  just 
committed.  Acc«.>rdingly,  he  departed  for  Constantinople 
to  make  himself  knovm  to  his  father,  and  performed  the 
usual  exploits  on  the  way.  He  did  not,  however,  remain 
long  at  that  city,  but  set  out  to  rescue  the  princess  France- 
lina,  of  whom  he  had  become  enamoured,  from  the  hands 
of  a  giant  and  dwarf,  by  whose  power  she  was  confined  in 
an  enchanted  castle. 

Polendos  returned  to  Constantinople  during  a  great 
tournament,  which  was  held  to  celebrate  the  nuptials  of 
one  of  the  emperor's  daughters.  On  this  occasion,  Prima- 
leon,  being  stimulated  to  the  desire  of  glory  by  the  exploits 
of  his  half-brother  Polendos,  was  admitted  into  the  order 
of  chivalry,  and  greatly  distinguished  himself.  The  re- 
mainder of  the  romance  is  occupied  with  his  adventures, 
and  those  of  Duardos  (Edward)  of  England.  A  duchess 
of  Ormedes,  incensed  at  Palmerin  d'Oliva  because  he  had 
slain  her  son,  had  declared  she  would  only  grant  her 
daughter,  the  beautiful  Gridoina,  in  marriage  to  the  knight 
who  should  bring  her  the  head  of  Primaleon.  This  raised 
up  many  enemies  to  that  young  hero,  and,  as  he  invariably 
slew  the  lovers  of  Gridoina,  he  became  the  object  of  her 
deepest  detestation.  The  lady  lived  shut  up  in  a  remote 
castle,  where  Primaleon  accidentally  arrived  one  evening, 
and  being  unknown,  he  completely  possessed  himself  of 
her  affections  before  his  departm-e. 

The  author  of  Primaleon  designed 

Platir/ 

the  son  of  Primaleon  and  Gridoina,  to  succeed  his  father 
in  chivalry,  and  a  romance,  of  which  he  is  the  hero,  was 
accordingly  written  to  continue  the  series,  which  was 
printed  at  Valladolid  in  1533.  This  work  is  one  of  those 
tales  of  chivalry  condemned  to  the  flames  by  Cervantes. 
"Here  is  the  noble  Don  Platir,  cried  the  barber.     It  is 

'  Chronica   del  muy   valente  y  esforzado  Cavallero  Platir  hijo  del 
Emperador  Primaleon. 

I.  C  C 


386  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

an  old  book,  replied  the  curate,  and  I  can  think  of  nothing 
in  him  that  deserves  a  grain  of  pity :  away  with  him 
without  more  words  ;  and  down  he  went  accordingly." 

This  indifferent  romance  was  superseded,  as  the  legiti- 
mate continuation  of  the  family  history  of  the  Palmerins, 
by  the  superior  merit  of  the  romance  of 

Palmerin  of  England,^ 

son  to  Don  Duardos,  prince  of  England,  and  Florida, 
daughter  of  the  Emperor  Palmerin  d'Oliva. 

The  most  ancient  edition  of  Palmerin  of  England  is  in 
the  French  language ;  it  was  printed  at  Lyons,  1553,  is 
dedicated  to  Diana  of  Poictiers,  duchess  of  Yalentinois, 
and  is  said  in  the  title-page  to  be  translated  by  Jacques 
Vincent  from  the  Castilian.  In  1555,  an  edition  in  the 
Italian  language  was  published  at  Venice,  which  also  pur- 
ports that  it  was  translated  from  the  Spanish.  This 
romance  next  api^eared  in  Portuguese  in  1567,  dedicated 
to  the  Infanta  Dona  Maria,  by  Francesco  de  Moraes.  Of 
Moraes  little  farther  is  known  than  that  he  was  born  at 
Bragan9a  ;  that  he  was  treasurer  to  King  Joam  III.,  and 
perished  by  a  violent  death  at  Evora  in  1572.  He  informs 
the  reader,  in  the  dedication,  that  being  in  France,  he  had 
discovered  a  French  MS.  chronicle  of  Palmerin,  which  he 
had  translated  into  Portuguese. 

In  spite  of  this  declaration  of  Moraes,  and  of  the  circum- 
stance that  the  French  and  Italian  editions  aj^peared 
twelve  or  foui'teen  years  previous  to  the  Portuguese,  both 
l^rofessing  to  be  translated  from  Spanish,  Mr.  Southey 
has  maintained  that  Palmerin  of  England  was  neither 
wi-itten  in  Spanish,  as  alleged  in  the  French  and  Italian 
editions,  nor  translated  from  ancient  chronicles,  as  pre- 
tended by  Moraes ;  but  that  the  Portuguese  is  the  language 
in  which  it  was  originally  composed,  and  that  Moraes 
himself  is  the  author. 

With  regard  to  the  assertion  of  Moraes,  it  is  argued 
justly  that  original  romances  were  very  frequently  repre- 
sented by  the  authors  as  translated  from  old  manuscripts ; 

1  Libro  del  famosissimo  y  muy  valeroso  Cavallero  Palmerin  de  Inga- 
laterra  hijo  del  Eey  Don  Duarte. 


CH.  v.]  PALMERIN  OF  ENGLAND.  387 

that  the  account  which  lie  gives  of  discovering^  the  chro- 
nicles inii)lies  that  the  story  is  his  own,  was  meant  to  be  so 
understood,  and  was  understood  so  ;  and  that  if  the  work 
had  not  been  original,  the  pretence  concerning  the  manu- 
scripts could  not  have  escaped  detection,  as  the  French  and 
Italian  versions  could  not  have  been  unknown  in  Lisbon  at 
the  period  of  its  publication. 

The  difficulty  arising  from  the  priority  of  the  French  and 
Italian  translations,  Mr.  Southey  resolves  by  adducing 
similar  instances  in  which  translations  have  been  made 
from  written  copies,  and  published  before  the  original,  and 
by  conjecturing  that  Moraes  wrote  the  book  in  France,  but 
delayed  printing  it  till  his  return  to  Portugal,  and  that 
meanwhile  it  was  translated  into  French  and  Italian.  As 
to  the  assertion  in  the  title-pages  of  the  French  editions, 
that  it  was  taken  from  the  Castilian,  he  beheves  that  term 
to  be  used  as  synonymous  with  Spanish,  which  was,  at  that 
time,  employed  to  denote  generally  the  language  of  all  the 
writers  of  the  peninsula.  He  remarks,  besides,  that  the 
Spaniards  lay  no  claim  to  the  romance,  and  that  he  knows 
no  proof  that  it  exists  in  their  language. 

Thus  the  way  is  cleared  for  the  evidence  of  its  Portu- 
guese original,  which  consists  in  an  assertion  of  Cervantes, 
that  there  was  a  report  that  it  was  composed  by  a  wise  king 
of  Portugal,^  which,  though  a  mistake  as  to  the  author, 
evinces  the  general  belief  that  it  was  wi'itten  in  Portuguese. 
There  is  also,  according  to  Mr.  Southey,  internal  evidence 
that  Palmerin  of  England  was  the  work  of  an  inhabitant 
of  Portugal,  since  to  much  of  the  scenery  the  author  has 
given  not  only  natural  but  local  truth.^ 

In  Palmerin,  as  in  many  other  romances  of  chivalry,  the 
author  gives  an  account  not  only  of  the  infancy  of  the  hero, 

1  See  p.  72. 

^  A  copy  of  the  romance  in  the  Spanish  language,  printed  at  Toledo 
in  two  parts  in  1547  and  1548,  was  discovered  by  Salva,  It  contains,  at 
the  end  of  the  dedication,  "  a  few  verses  addressed  by  the  author  to  the 
reader,  announcing  it,  in  an  acrostic,  to  be  the  work  of  Luis  Hurtado, 
known  to  have  been  ut  that  time  a  poet  in  Toledo."  See  Ticknor,  who 
cites  bibliographical  authorities  for  the  "attribution"  in  a  note;  and 
Braunfels,  op.  cit.  p.  145.  Sec  also  Zeitschrift  fiir  Komanischen  Philo- 
logie,  vi.  2,  3,  p.  216,  etc.;  and  Komania,  xi.  pp.  618,  619,  in  favour 
of  Moraes'  authorship. 


388  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  T. 

but  the  adventures  of  his  parents.  Don  Duardos,  son  of 
Fadriqne,  king  of  England,  was  united,  as  mentioned  in 
the  romance  of  Primaleon,  to  Merida,  daughter  of  Palmerin 
d'Oliva.  One  day,  while  pursuing  a  wild  boar  in  a  forest 
of  England,  this  prince  loses  his  way  and  arrives  at  a  castle, 
into  which  he  is  admitted,  and  is  afterwards  treacherously 
detained  by  a  giantess  called  Eutropa,  with  the  view  of  re- 
venging the  death  of  her  brother,  who  had  been  slain  by 
Palmerin  d'Oliva.  This  giantess  had  a  nephew  called 
Dramuziando,  who  resided  in  the  castle,  and  was  the  son 
of  the  person  who  had  been  killed  by  Palmerin.  Dramu- 
ziando presents  the  character  (a  very  singular  one  in  ro- 
mance) of  an  amiable  and  accomplished  giant.  He  was, 
we  are  told,  pleasant  in  discourse,  and  (which  was  probably 
no  difficult  matter)  surpassed  all  his  kindred  in  courtesy ; 
he  conceived  a  friendship  for  Duardos,  and,  contrary  to  the 
intentions  of  the  aunt,  treated  him  with  much  kindness 
while  he  was  detained  a  prisoner  in  the  castle. 

Flerida  having  set  out  in  search  of  her  husband  Duardos 
with  a  large  escort,  is  seized  in  a  forest  with  the  pains  of 
labour,  and  gives  birth  to  two  sons,  who  are  baptized  by  a 
chaplain  who  was  in  attendance.  This  ceremony  was 
scarcely  concluded  when  a  savage  man,  who  inhabited  the 
forest,  approached,  leading  two  lions,  and  possessed  him- 
self of  the  infants,  one  of  whom  had  just  been  named 
Palmerin,  the  future  hero  of  the  romance,  and  the  other 
Florian.  Both  these  unfortunate  children  he  straightway 
conveys  to  his  den,  and  destines  them  as  food  for  his  lions. 

After  this  mishap,  Flerida  returns  disconsolate  to  the 
palace,  and  a  messenger  is  despatched  to  Constantinople  to 
inform  the  emperor  and  his  court  of  the  recent  loss,  and 
also  of  the  captivity  of  Duardos.  On  receiving  this  intel- 
ligence, Primaleon  and  a  number  of  knights  depart  for 
England.  A  great  proportion  of  the  early  part  of  the 
romance  is  occupied  with  the  adventures  of  those  engaged 
in  attempting  the  deliverance  of  Duardos.  Most  of  the 
knights  fall  under  the  power  of  the  giant  Dramuziando, 
but  the  only  revenge  he  takes  is  employing  them,  as  he  of 
late  had  employed  Duardos,  to  combat  each  new  enemy 
that  approached. 

Meanwhile  the  wife  of  the  savage  man  had  prevailed  on 


CH.  v.]  PALMERIN  OF  ENGLAND.  389 

her  husband  to  relinquish  his  intentions  of  dismembering 
Palmerin  and  Florian  for  behoof  of  his  lions,  and  the  two 
young  princes  are  brouglit  up  as  his  own  children,  along 
with  his  son  Selvian.  One  day,  when  Florian  had  roamed 
to  a  considerable  distance  in  pursuit  of  a  stag,  he  meets 
Sir  Pridos,  son  to  the  duke  of  Wales,  who  takes  him  to  the 
English  court,  where  he  is  introduced  to  the  king  and 
Flerida,  and  trained  up  by  them  with  much  care,  under 
the  name  of  Child  of  the  Desert. 

Some  time  after  this,  Palmerin  having  strayed  to  the 
sea  coast,  accompanied  by  Selvian,  the  savage  man's  son, 
sees  a  galley  strike  on  the  shore.  From  this  vessel  Polen- 
dos,  mentioned  in  the  romance  of  Primaleon,  disembarks, 
having  come  to  England,  with  other  Greek  knights,  in  quest 
of  Duardos.  At  their  own  request  he  takes  Palmerin  and, 
Selvian  on  board  his  shij),  and  sails  with  them  to  Constan- 
tinople. Here  they  are  introduced  to  the  emperor,  who 
remains  ignorant  of  the  extraction  of  Palmerin,  but  is  cer- 
tified of  his  high  rank  by  special  letters  from  the  Lady  of 
the  Lake.  Our  hero  was  in  consequence  knighted,  and  had 
his  sword  girt  on  by  Polinarda,  the  daughter  of  Primaleon. 
During  his  residence  at  court  a  tournament  is  held,  in  which 
he  and  an  unknown  knight,  who  bore  for  his  device  a  savage 
leading  two  lions,  chiefly  distinguished  themselves.  The 
stranger  departs  without  discovering  himself,  but  he  is 
afterwards  found  out  to  be  Florian  of  the  Desert,  and  is 
thenceforth  denominated  the  Knight  of  the  Savage. 

Palmerin  having  become  enamoured  of  Polinarda,  the 
daughter  of  Primaleon,  and  having  expressed  his  sentiments 
rather  freely  to  the  princess,  she  forbids  him  her  presence. 
Lq  the  depth  of  despair  he  forsakes  the  Grecian  court,  and 
joumeving  towards  England,  under  the  name  of  the  Knight 
of  Fortune,  succours  on  his  way  many  injured  ladies,  and 
bears  away  the  prize  from  many  knights.  He  is  always 
accompanied  in  these  exploits  by  Selvian,  who  acted  as  his 
squire.  Having  arrived  in  England,  while  passing  through 
a  wood,  they  are  met  and  recognized  by  the  savage  man. 
In  the  neighbourhood  of  London,  Palmerin  is  received  in 
a  castle,  of  which  the  lady  asks  him  to  combat  the  Knight 
of  the  Savage,  who  had  slain  her  son.  On  his  arrival  in 
London,  the  first  business  of  Palmerin  is  to  defy  Florian  of 


390  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

the  Savage.  It  is  customary  in  most  Spanisli  romances  to 
stake  against  eacli  other  the  two  brothers,  who  are  the 
chief  characters  in  the  work.  On  the  present  occasion, 
however,  the  combat  is  interrupted  at  the  entreaty  of  the 
princess  Flerida.  Nor  is  it  ever  resumed,  for  Palmerin 
having  overcome  Dramuziando,  and  set  Duardos  at  hberty, 
the  birth  of  the  champions  is  revealed  by  Daliarte  the  magi- 
cian, whose  declaration  is  confirmed  by  the  deposition  of 
the  savage  man. 

Florian  and  Palmerin  now  leave  the  court  of  England  in 
company,  but  it  is  impossible  to  follow  them  through  the 
long  series  of  adventures  in  which  they  engage.  A  great 
proportion  of  the  exploits  in  the  romance  are  performed  by 
the  brothers,  separately  or  united.  Some  of  the  adven- 
tures of  Palmerin,  particularly  those  in  the  Perilous  Isle, 
possess  considerable  beauty  and  interest.  A  number  of 
exploits  are,  however,  attributed  to  subordinate  characters, 
and  a  proper  share  is  assigned  to  the  giant  Dramuziando, 
who,  though  he  had  been  vanquished  by  Palmerin,  is 
allowed  to  retain  his  castle,  on  account  of  his  courtesy  and 
good  treatment  of  Duardos.  Eutropa,  nevertheless,  still 
retains  her  illwill  to  the  family  of  the  Palmerins ;  and 
many  of  the  incidents  in  the  romance  arise  from  her  machi- 
nations, and  those  of  other  aggrieved  giants,  to  avenge 
themselves  on  the  brothers ;  but  all  their  efforts  are  ulti- 
mately counteracted  by  the  magician  Daliarte. 

The  chief  scene  of  adventure  is  the  castle  of  Almourol. 
There,  under  care  of  a  giant,  dwelt  the  beautiful  but 
haughty  Miraguarda,  whose  portraiture  was  delineated  on 
a  shield,  which  hung  over  the  gate  of  the  castle.  This  pic- 
ture was,  in  rotation,  protected  by  knights,  who  had  be- 
come enamoured  of  the  original,  against  all  other  knights 
who  had  the  audacity  to  maintain  that  the  charms  of  their 
ladies  were  comparable  to  those  of  Miraguarda.  At  length, 
during  a  period  when  the  picture  was  guarded  by  the  giant 
Dramuziando,  one  of  the  adorers  of  the  original,  it  is  stolen 
by  Albayzar,  soldan  of  Babylon,  who  had  been  positively 
commanded  to  gain  this  trophy  by  his  mistress  the  Lady 
Targiana,  daughter  of  the  G-rand  Turk.  ,. 

Finally,  all  the  knights  being  assembled  at  Constan- 
tinople, espouse  their  respective  ladies.    Palmerin  is  united 


CH.  v.]  PALMERIN  OF  ENGLAND.  391 

to  Polinarda,  and  his  brother  Florian  to  Leonarda,  queen 
of  Thrace,  wliose  disenchantment  had  been  one  of  the  prin- 
cipal adventures  of  Palmerin. 

The  romance,  however,  does  not  conclude  with  these 
marriages.  Florian,  whose  character  resembles  that  of  the 
younger  brothers  in  the  history  of  Amadis,  while  residing 
at  the  court  of  the  Grand  Tiu'k,  had  run  off  with  his 
daughter.  That  princess  was  now  married  to  Albayzar, 
soldan  of  Babylon,  who  had  stolen  for  her  sake  the  portrait 
of  Miraguarda ;  but  as  she  still  retained  a  strong  resent- 
ment at  the  conduct  of  her  former  lover,  she  employed  a 
magician  to  avenge  her  on  the  queen  of  Thrace,  who  had 
been  lately  united  to  Florian.  This  queen,  while  disporting 
in  a  garden,  is  imexpectedly  carried  off  by  two  enormous 
griffins,  and  conveyed  to  a  magic  castle,  where  she  is  con- 
fined in  the  image  of  a  huge  serpent.  Florian' s  attention 
is  now  occupied  by  the  discovery  and  disenchantment  of  his 
queen,  in  wliich  he  at  length  succeeds  by  the  assistance  of 
the  magician  Daliarte.  The  scheme  of  revenge  having  thus 
failed,  Albayzar,  on  account  of  the  affront  which  had  been 
offered  to  his  queen  by  Florian,  and  exasperated  at  the  re- 
fusal of  the  emperor  to  deliver  that  prince  into  his  power, 
invades  the  Greek  territories  with  two  hundred  thousand 
men,  and  accompanied  by  all  the  kings  and  soldans  of  the 
east.  Three  desperate  engagements  are  fought  between 
the  Christians  and  Turks,  in  which  Albayzar  is  slain,  and 
the  pagan  army  totally  annihilated ;  not,  however,  without 
great  loss  on  the  other  side,  for  though  Palmerin,  Prima- 
leon,  Dramuziando,  and  Florian  survive,  a  large  proportion 
of  the  Christian  knights  perish  in  these  fatal  encounters. 

The  fame  and  reputation  of  this  romance,  which  divides 
the  palm  of  popularity  with  Amadis  de  Gaul,  has  probably 
been,  in  some  measui-e,  owing  to  the  commendations  of 
Cervantes.  For,  if  we  may  judge  from  the  number  of 
editions,  Palmerin  was  less  read  in  the  age  during  which 
tales  of  chivalry  were  in  fashion  than  many  of  its  contem- 
poraries ;  and  hence  its  celebrity  was  probably  the  conse- 
quence of  the  extravagant  eulogy  of  Cervantes.  "  And  this 
Palm  of  England,  let  it  be  kept  and  preserved  as  a  thing 
unique  ;  and  let  another  casket  be  made  for  it,  such  as  that 
which  Alexander  found  among  the  spoils  of  Darius,  and 


392  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

set  apart,  that  the  works  of  the  poet  Homer  might  be  kept 
in  it.  This  book,  Sir  Comrade,  is  of  authority,  for  two 
reasons ;  the  one,  because  it  is  a  right  good  one  in  itself, 
and  the  other,  because  the  report  is  that  a  wise  king  of 
Portugal  composed  it.  All  the  adventures  at  the  castle  of 
Miraguarda  are  excellent,  and  managed  with  great  skill; 
the  discourses  are  courtly  and  clear,  observing,  with  much 
propriety  and  judgment,  the  decorum  of  the  speaker. — I 
say  then,  saving  your  good  pleasure.  Master  Nicholas,  this 
and  Amadis  de  Gaul  should  be  saved  from  the  fire,  and  all 
the  rest  be,  without  farther  search,  destroyed." — Cervantes, 
who  had  so  keen  a  perception  of  the  absurdities  of  the  pro- 
ductions of  knight  errantry,  would  not  so  strongly  have 
praised  this  romance  unless  it  had  deserved  some  commen- 
dation ;  but  though  Palmerin  be  certainly  the  most  enter- 
taining of  the  romances  of  the  peninsula,  I  cannot  help 
thinking  the  author  of  Don  Quixote  has  somewhat  over- 
rated its  merit.  The  arrangement  of  the  incidents  is  as  wild 
and  perplexed  as  in  other  tales  of  chivalry.  Besides,  the 
individual  adventures  of  Palmerin  are  invariably  pros- 
perous, and  we  never  feel  any  fear  or  interest  on  his  account, 
as  we  are  assured  of  a  happy  issue  by  the  frequent  recur- 
rence of  success.  The  sentiments,  too,  are  trivial,  and  the 
characters  of  the  heroines  insipid,  even  beyond  what  is 
common  in  romances  of  chivalry.  Indeed,  the  author 
seems  to  have  entertained  a  very  unfavourable  opinion  of 
the  fair  sex,  and  indulges  in  many  ill-bred  reflections  on 
their  envy,  unreasonableness,  and  inconstancy ;  but  he  has 
not  decked  out  his  females  even  with  these  attributes.  The 
portraits  of  the  knights,  however,  are  better  brought  out 
and  discriminated.  As  in  many  other  Spanish  romances, 
Palmerin  represents  a  faithful  lover,  and  Florian  a  man  of 
gallantry,  though  more  than  usually  licentious.  But  the 
most  interesting  characters  are  Daliarte,  a  learned  and  soli- 
tary magician,  who  resides  in  the  Valley  of  Perdition,  im- 
mersed in  profound  study ;  and  the  giant  Dramuziando, 
for  whose  safety  we  feel  principally  anxious  during  the 
last  terrible  conflicts.  The  Emperor  Palmerin  d'Ohva,  too, 
is  here  represented  as  a  fine  old  man,  with  a  high  sense  of 
honour  and  great  courtliness  of  speech.  The  damsels,  the 
strange  knights,  and  the  castles  which  abound  in  this  ro- 


CH.  v.]  PALMERIN    OF    ENGLAND.  393 

manee,  are  generally  introduced  and  described  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  excite  consideral)le  curiosity  concerning  them ; 
and  I  know  no  work  of  the  kind  where  interest  and  sus- 
pense, with  regard  to  the  conclusion,  are  kept  up  with 
greater  success.  If  in  the  rival  work  of  Amadis  de  Gaul 
there  be  more  fire  and  animation,  in  Pahnerin  there  is  in- 
finitely more  yariety,  delicacy,  and  sweetness. 

Mr.  Southey,  however,  has  drawn  a  parallel  between  this 
romance  and  Amadis  de  Gaul,  which,  on  the  whole,  is 
much  to  the  advantage  of  the  latter.  "  In  the  description 
of  battles,"  he  says,  "  the  author  of  Amadis  exceeds  all 
poets  and  all  romancers,  as  he  fairly  fixes  attention  on  the 
champions.  But  Moraes  sets  everything  else  before  the 
eyes ;  he  is  principally  occupied  with  the  lists  and  specta- 
tors, and  enters  into  the  feelings  both  of  those  who  are  en- 
gaged and  of  those  who  look  on.  The  magic  of  Moraes,"  he 
continues,  "  is  not  good ;  the  cup  of  tears  is  a  puerile  fiction 
compared  with  the  garland  which  blossoms  out  on  the  head 
of  Oriana.  The  hero  of  Moraes  is  courageous,  \artuous, 
and  generous,  to  the  height  of  chivalry  ;  but  it  is  abstract 
courage,  virtue,  and  generosity,  with  nothing  to  stamp  and 
individualize  the  possessor.  The  Florian  of  Moraes,  how- 
ever, is  admirably  supported,  and  he  is  a  more  prominent 
character  than  Galaor.  But  libertinism  is  only  a  subordi- 
nate feature  of  Galaor ;  that  which  stands  foremost  is  his 
high  sense  of  chivah'ous  honour.  Florian  has  his  wit,  his 
good-humour,  and  his  courage,  to  palliate  his  faults ;  but 
these  are  not  sufficient,  and  he  is  never  respected  by  the 
reader  as  Galaor  is.  What  is  excused  in  one  as  a  weak- 
ness, is  condemned  in  the  other  as  a  vice.  This  is  unfor- 
tunately managed ;  for,  as  he  is  the  cause  of  the  final  war, 
his  character  should  have  been  clearer.  Had  Targiana 
been  sister  instead  of  wife  to  Albayzar,  it  would  have  been 
felt  the  Turks  were  in  the  right ;  and  as  it  is,  they  are  not 
so  manifestly  in  the  wrong,  as  the  author  should  have 
made  them." 

The  I'omance  of  Palmerin  was  translated  from  French 
into  English  by  Anthony  Munday,  the  Grub-street  patriarch, 
as  he  has  been  called,  towards  the  close  of  the  sixteenth 
century.  This  work,  however,  according  to  Mr.  Southey, 
was  extremely  ill  executed,  as  it  was,  in  a  great  measure, 


394  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

performed  by  journeymen  who  understood  neither  French 
nor  English.  It  has  lately  been  translated  from  the 
original,  with  much  elegance,  by  the  author  so  often 
quoted  in  the  above  inquiries  concerning  the  romances  of 
the  peninsula.^ 

The  work  with  which  we  have  been  last  occupied  may 
be  regarded  as  closing  the  family  history  of  the  Palmerins. 
It  was,  I  believe,  subsequently  carried  on  in  Portuguese, 
but  this  continuation  obtained  no  celebrity  nor  success."^ 
There  is,  however,  a  very  pretty  French  romance  of  the 
sixteenth  century,  by  Gabriel  Chapuis,  who  translated  so 
many  of  the  Spanish  tales  of  chivalry,  entitled  Darinel, 
son  of  Primaleon.  The  most  interesting  adventures  relate 
to  the  Palace  of  Illusions,  raised  by  a  magician,  in  which 
everyone  who  entered  fancied  he  enjoyed  all  things  that 
he  wished.  This  work  is  announced  as  translated  from 
the  Spanish,  but  was  in  fact  the  composition  of  Chapuis. 

Besides  the  romances  concerning  the  imaginary  families 
of  Amadis  and  Palmerin,  there  are  mentioned  in  the 
scrutiny  of  Don  Quixote's  library,  Bon  Olivante  de  Laura, 
by  Antonio  de  Torquemada,  which  is  condemned  for  its 
arrogance  and  absurdity,  and  Felixmarte  of  Hyrcania, 
which  is  sent  to  the  bonfire  in  the  court,  for  the  harshness 
and  dryness  of  the  style,  spite  of  the  strange  birth  and 
chimerical  adventures  of  its  hero.  Dr.  Johnson,  I  suppose, 
is  the  only  person  in  this  land  who  has  been  guilty  of 
reading  the  whole  of  Felixmarte  of  Hyrcania.  Bishop 
Percy  informed  Boswell,  "  That  the  doctor,  when  a  boy, 
was  immoderately  fond  of  romances  of  chivalry,  and  he 
retained  his  fondness  for  them  through  life ;  so  that, 
spending  part  of  a  summer  at  my  parsonage-house  in  the 
country,  he  chose  for  his  regular  reading  the  old  Spanish 
romance  of   Felixmarte  of  Hyrcania,  in  folio,  which  he 

^  Palmerin  of  England,  translated  from  the  Portuguese  of  Frances  de 
Moraes,  by  Robert  Soutliey,  1807,  12mo. 

=^  "  A  third  and  fourth  part,  indeed,"  remarks  Ticknor,  "  containing 
The  Adventures  of  Duardos  the  Second,  appeared  in  Portuguese, 
written  by  Diogo  Fernandez,  in  1587  ;  and  a  fifth  and  sixth  are  said  to 
have  been  written  by  Alvares  do  Oriente,  a  contemporary  poet  of  no 
mean  reputation.  But  the  last  two  do  not  seem  to  have  been  printed, 
and  none  of  them  were  much  known  beyond  the  limits  of  their  native 
country,"  i.  250. 


CH.  v.]  SPANISH    ROMANCES    OF    CHIVALRY.  395 

read  quite  tliroiigh." — Boswell's  "  Life  of  Jolinson,"  1884, 
8vo.  vol.  i.  p.  22. 

The  more  celebrated  romance  of 

Don  Belianis  of  Greece/ 

is  frequently  alluded  to  in  Avellaneda's  continuation  of 
Don  Quixote,  and  is  also  mentioned  by  Cervantes  more 
favourably  than  most  others  of  the  same  description, 
in  the  scrutiny  of  the  library.  "  This  which  I  have  in  my 
hands,  said  the  barber,  is  the  famous  Belianis.  Truly, 
cried  the  curate,  he  with  his  second,  third,  and  fourth 
parts,  had  need  of  a  dose  to  purge  his  excessive  choler : 
Besides,  his  castle  of  Fame  should  be  demolished,  and  a, 
heaj:)  of  other  rubbish  removed,  in  order  to  which  I  give  my 
vote  to  grant  them  the  benefit  of  a  reprieve,  and  as  they 
show  signs  of  amendment,  so  shall  mercy  or  justice  be 
used  towards  them  :  In  the  mean  time  take  them  into  cus- 
tody, and  keep  them  safe  at  home ;  but  let  none  be  per- 
mitted to  converse  with  them." 

It  would  be  needless  to  detain  and  tire  the  reader  with 
any  account  of  the  history  of  the  Invencible  Cavallero  Don 
Polindo,  son  of  the  king  of  Numidia,  and  his  love  with  the 
Princess  Behsia  ;  of  the  Valeroso  Cavallero  Don  Cirongiho 
of  Thrace,  son  of  the  king  of  Macedonia,  written  by  Ber- 
nardo de  Vargas,  or  of  the  Esforzado  Cavallero  Don  Clarian 
de  Landanis,  by  Geronimo  Lopez. 

There  still  remain,  however,  two  romances  of  consider- 
able beauty  and  interest,  which  first  appeared  in  the  dialect 
of  Catalonia. 

When  the  Eomans  were  expelled  from  Spain  by  the 
northern  invaders,  the  language  they  bequeathed  was 
adopted,  but  soon  disfigured  by  the  conquerors.  During  the 
ninth  century  it  was  still  farther  corrupted  by  the  inroads 
of  the  Moors,  and  had  at  length  so  far  degenerated,  that 
the  Arabic  became  the  chief  vehicle  of  literary  composition. 

In  the  eleventh  century  the  French  Romans  language 

^  Libro  primero  del  valoroso  e  invencible  prencipe  Don  Belianis  de 
Grecia,  hijo  del  Emperador  Don  Belanio  de  Grecia.  sacada  de  lengua 
Griega  en  la  qual  le  escrivio  el  sabio  Frisian  por  un  hijo  del  vertuoso 
varon  Toribio  Fernandez.     Printed  1564  and  1579. 


396  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

was  introduced  into  the  peninsula  by  Prince  Henry  of 
Lorraine,  who  married  a  daughter  of  Alphonso  VI.  of  Cas- 
tile, and  was  diffused  by  the  intercourse  which  subsisted 
between  the  French  and  Spanish  nations,  in  their  mutual 
resistance  of  the  Saracens.  A  great  change  in  consequence 
took  place  in  the  language  of  Spain,  and  five  or  six  different 
dialects  were  spoken  in  the  peninsula.  Of  these,  the 
earliest,  the  most  widely  extended,  and  the  one  which  bore 
the  strongest  resemblance  to  the  southern  French  Momans, 
was  that  adopted  in  Catalonia.  It  was  spoken  in  that 
province,  in  Eoussillon  and  Valentia ;  and,  till  the  period 
of  the  marriage  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  (when  the  Cas- 
tilian  tongue  became  prevalent,)  it  was  the  language  which 
afforded  the  best  specimens,  both  of  prose  and  poetical 
composition.  Petrarch  is  said  to  have  been  largely  in- 
debted to  the  amatory  verses  of  the  Troubadours  of  this 
region,  and  two  of  the  earliest  and  most  interesting  ro- 
mances that  have  been  produced  in  Spain,  appeared  in  the 
dialect  of  Catalonia,  previous  to  their  translation  into  the 
Castilian. 

Of  these  the  earhest,  and  perhaps  the  most  curious,  is 

TiRANTE    THE    WhITE,^ 

the  first  part  of  which  was  written  in  the  Catalonian 
dialect  by  Pedro  Juan  Martorell,^  a  knight  of  Valencia,  but 
being  left  unfinished  by  him,  it  was  completed  by  Juan 

^  Lns  cinco  libros  del  effor^ado  y  invencibile  Cavallero  Tirante  el 
Blanco  di  Roca  Salada  Cavallero  de  la  Garrotera,  el  qual  por  su  alta 
Cavalleria  alcan^o  a  ser  principe  y  Cesar  del  imperio  de  Grecia. 

^  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  Martorell  is  himself  the  author  of  the 
romance,  though  that  he  originally  wrote  it  in  Portuguese,  into  which 
he  professes  to  have  first  translated  it,  rather  than  in  his  native  Valen- 
tian  dialect,  is  improbable  (see  this  question  elucidated  in  Dr.  Ludwig 
Braunfels'  "  Kritischer  Versuch  liber  den  Roman  Amadis  von  Gallien." 
Leipzig,  O.  Wigand,  1876, pp.  145-155).  Doubtless  he  embodied  in  it  much 
matter  gathered  in  England,  whither  he  is  supposed  to  have  come  in  the 
suite  of  Peter,  Duke  of  Coimbra,  son  of  John  I.  of  Portugal,  in  1 425. 
This  princely  visitor  to  our  shores  "  was  magnificently  entertained  at  the 
court  of  our  Henry  VI.  (then  a  child),  by  the  king's  uncles,  and  actually 
installed  a  Knight  of  the  Garter ;  so  that  the  author  might  have  been  an 
eye-witness  of  the  ceremony.  One  reason  of  the  fiction  adopted  by  Mar- 
torell might  be,  that  as  his  patron  Ferdinand  was  great-grandson  to 
John  of  Gaunt  (who,  under  the  title  of  Duke  of  Lancaster,  ...  is  actu- 
ally introduced  as  a  distinguished  character  in  the  work),  he  was  likely 


CH.  v.]  TIRANTE    THE    WHITE.  397 

de  G-alba.  The  first  of  these  authors  informs  us  he  trans- 
lated it  from  the  English,  by  which  Mr.  Warton  conjec- 
tures he  meant  the  Breton  language,  in  which  it  may  have 
been  originally  written.  It  is  difficult  to  say  whether  this- 
assertion  of  the  author  be  true,  or  whether  he  has  framed 
the  story,  to  give  some  appearance  of  authenticity  to  his 
romance,  which  relates  the  exploits  of  a  Breton  knight. 
That  part  of  it  which  contains  the  history  of  the  earl  of 
Warwick,  is,  I  think,  most  probably  translated,  as  it 
closely  coiTesponds  with  the  old  English  romance,  Guy  of 
Warwick,  which  was  versified  from  the  original  French  in 
the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth  century ; — a  period  long 
preceding  the  composition  of  Tirante  the  White  in  Si)ain. 

At  what  time  this  romance  was  written  or  translated  by 
Martorell,  is  not  precisely  ascertained.  It  was  first  printecl, 
however,  at  Valencia,  in  1490 ;  and  there  is  mentioned  irt 
it  a  work  on  chivalry,  entitled :  L' Arbre  des  Batailles,  which 
was  written  in  1390  ;  so  that  it  must  have  been  composed 
between  these  two  periods.     But  the  date  may,  I  think,  be 

to  be  more  gratified  with  the  idea  of  its  being  an  English  story  than 
with  the  naked  truth.  Be  all  this,  however,  as  it  may,  the  work  is 
perhaps  superior  to  every  other  composition  of  the  same  nature.  Every 
writer  who  has  read  it,  and  particularly  in  the  original,  is  lavish  in  its 
praise.  Antonio  Bastero,  in  his  Crusea  Provenzale,  .  .  .  calls  the  author 
one  of  the  clearest  lights  of  the  Provenzal  tongue,  of  which  the  Catalan 
is  considered  as  a  branch.  He  takes  particular  notice  of  the  variation  of 
his  style  and  manner,  not  only  in  Tirant's  reply  to  his  rivals  and  his 
letters  to  his  beautiful  and  constant  lady,  the  Princess  Carmesina,  but 
in  his  own  Dedication  to  the  King  (Prince)  of  Portugal,  whom  he 
addresses  in  a  language  very  different  from  that  which  he  uses  to  the 
reader  in  his  Preface.  This  particularity  is  likewise  insisted  on  by 
Vicente  Ximeno,  in  his  Escritores  del  Reyno  de  Valencia,  . , .  where  he 
says  .  . .  the  author  has  accommodated  with  adroitness  and  propriety  the 
language  and  style  to  the  person  speaking ;  and  indeed  the  artful  discri- 
mination of  character  must  strike  everyone  who  peruses  the  work  even 
in  the  translation  from  a  translation." 

In  Kitson's  "  General  Catalogue  of  Romances,"  a  MS.  now  in  the- 
British  ^Museum,  there  is  a  long  and  interesting  notice  of  this  work. 
Kitson's  remarks,  which  would  occupy  too  much  space  here,  will  be 
found  printed  at  length  in  the  British  Museum  Grenville  Catalogue,, 
part  i.  pp.  734-736,  to  which  I  must  refer  the  curious  reader. 

This  romance  was  printed  at  Valencia  in  1490.  Three  copies  of  this 
edition  only  are  known.  It  was  printed  again  at  Barcelona  in  1497. 
The  romance  has  been  reprinted  from  these  editions  in  Aquilo  y  Fuster's 
"  Biblioteca  Catalana,"  Barcelona,  1872,  etc. 


398  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

still  farther  limited.  The  Canary  Islands  were  discovered 
in  1326,  and  began  to  be  well  known  in  Europe  about  1405.^ 
Now,  from  tlie  false  notions  expressed  concerning  them  in 
Tirante,  and  the  extravagant  idea  which  seems  to  be  enter- 
tained of  their  power  and  magnitude,  it  is  probable  this 
romance  was  written  before  their  precise  situation  and  ex- 
tent were  ascertained  in  the  peninsula.  On  the  whole, 
therefore,  the  era  of  its  composition  may  be  pretty  safely 
fixed  about  the  year  1400. 

Tirante,  as  has  been  mentioned,  was  first  pubhshed  in 
the  Catalonian  dialect  at  Valencia,  in  1490.  It  was  thence 
transferred  into  the  Castilian  language,  and  published  at 
Yalladolid  in  1511,  one  volume  folio.  There  has  been  no 
subsequent  Spanish  edition,  but  the  Italian  translation  by 
Lelio  Manfredi  has  passed  through  three  impressions,  of 
Avhich  the  first  appeared  in  1538.  The  Count  de  Caylus 
more  lately  brought  it  forward  in  a  French  garb,  after  the 
fashion  of  the  Count  de  Tressan ;  he  has  altered  the  inci- 
dents of  the  story  in  some  places  ;  in  others  he  has  consider- 
ably abridged  the  work,  by  omitting  precepts  of  chivalry, 
and  has  almost  everywhere  rendered  it  more  licentious. 

The  hero  of  this  romance,  while  on  his  journey  to  attend 
the  tournaments,  which  were  about  to  be  celebrated  in 
England  (on  accoimt  of  the  marriage  of  the  king  of  that 
country  with  a  princess  of  France),  is  accidentally  separated 
from  his  companions,  and  having  fallen  asleep  on  his 
horse,  arrives  in  rather  an  unwarlike  attitude  at  the  her- 
mitage of  William,  earl  of  Warwick. 

This  nobleman,  disgusted  with  the  European  world,  had 

^  These  isles,  owing  to  their  remoteness,  were  long  invested  with  the 
haze  of  mystery ;  they  were,  however,  known  to  the  ancients,  and  were 
noticed  by  Pliny  and  other  writers  of  antiquity  ;  after  which,  according 
to  the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  "  There  is  no  farther  mention  of  them 
until  we  read  of  their  rediscovery  about  1334,  by  a  French  A^essel  driven 
amongst  them  by  a  storm." 

During  the  whole  of  the  fifteenth  century  the  Canaries  attracted 
many  adventurers,  and  were  the  object  of  several  expeditions  which 
started  mostly  from  Spain,  and  met  with  very  effectual  resistance  from 
the  natives,  who  were  not  all  brought  into  subjection  to  the  Spanish 
throne  until  near  the  close  of  the  century.  Don  Luis,  great-gi-andson 
of  Alphonso  the  Wise,  obtained  a  bull  from  Clement  VI.  in  1334,  be- 
stowing upon  him  the  lordship  of  the  Fortunate  (or  Canary)  Islands,  to 
remain  in  fief  to  the  Holy  See,  upon  an  annual  payment  of  400  florins. 


CH.  v.]  TIRANTE    THE    WHITE.  399 

gone  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem.  Tlience  he  spread  a 
report  of  his  death,  which  seems  to  have  been  eagerly  re- 
ceived in  England,  returned  to  his  own  country  in  disguise, 
and  established  himself  in  a  retirement  near  the  castle  in 
which  his  countess  resided.  After  he  had  ])assed  some  time 
in  solitude,  fortune  gave  him  an  opportunity  of  rendering 
signal  service  to  his  country.  The  great  king  of  the  Canary 
Islands  had  landed  in  Britain  with  a  formidable  army,  and 
had  subdued  nearly  the  whole  of  England,  while  the 
monarch  of  the  conquered  country,  driven  successively 
from  London  and  Canterbury,  had  sought  refuge  in  the 
town  of  Warwick,  which  was  soon  invested  by  the  Canary 
forces.  At  this  crisis,  the  earl,  who  lived  in  the  neighbour- 
hood, came  to  the  assistance  of  his  prince  ;  killed  the  in- 
trusive monarch  in  single  combat,  and  defeated  his  suc- 
cessor in  a  pitched  battle.  After  these  important  services 
the  earl  discovered  himself  to  his  countess,  and  again  retired 
to  his  hermitage.  In  the  English  metrical  romance  of  Guy 
of  Warwick,  translated  from  the  French,  that  earl,  after  a 
long  absence,  returns  to  England  m  disguise  of  a  j^almer, 
visits  his  countess  unknown  to  her,  and  delivers  King 
Athelstane  from  an  invasion  of  the  Danes,  who  had  be- 
sieged him  in  Winchester,  by  overthrowing  their  cham- 
pion in  single  combat. 

WilUam  of  Warwick  was  engaged  in  the  perusal  of 
L'Arbre  des  Batailles,  when  the  unknown  and  drowsy 
knight  arrived  at  his  habitation.  When  roused  from  the 
sleep  in  which  he  was  plunged,  he  informed  the  earl  that 
his  name  was  Tirante  el  Blanco,  that  he  was  so  called  be- 
cause his  father  was  lord  of  the  marches  of  Tirranie,  situated 
in  that  part  of  France  which  was  opposite  to  the  coast  of 
England,  and  that  his  mother  was  daughter  to  the  duke  of 
Britany.  After  this  genealogical  sketch,  he  mentioned  his 
design  of  attending  the  tournaments,  and  receiving  the 
honour  of  knighthood.  His  host  accordingly  read  to  him 
a  chapter  from  L'Arbre  des  Batailles,  which  was  a  work  on 
the  institutions  of  chivalry.  This  prelection  he  accompanied 
with  a  learned  commentary,  explaining  the  different  sorts 
of  arms  which  were  used  in  combats,  and  dwelling  on  the 
exploits  of  ancient  knights :  "  But,  as  it  is  late,"  continues 
he,  "  your  company  must  be  at  a  distance  ;  you  are  ignorant 


400  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [cH.  V. 

of  the  roads,  and  jou  will  be  in  danger  of  losing  yourself 
in  the  woods,  with  which  this  district  is  covered.  I  there- 
fore recommend  an  immediate  departure."  The  above  argu- 
ments might  certainly  have  supported  a  more  hospitable 
conclusion,  but  Tiran  is  dismissed  with  a  present  of  the 
Tree  of  Battles,  as  a  manual  of  chivalry,  and  a  request  to 
revisit  the  hermitage  on  his  return  from  the  tournaments. 

Tiran  accordingly,  when  the  festival,  which  lasted  a 
twelvemonth,  was  concluded,  repaired  to  the  hermitage, 
and,  encouraged  by  the  proofs  he  had  formerly  received  of 
the  hospitable  disposition  of  the  earl,  brought  his  com- 
panions, to  the  number  of  thirty-eight,  along  with  him. 
The  earl,  after  he  had  recovered  from  his  consternation,, 
demanded  an  account  of  the  tournaments,  and  inquired 
who  had  most  distinguished  himself.  He  is  answered  by 
Diofebo,  one  of  his  guests,  that  it  was  Tiran  himself  ;  that 
a  French  lord,  called  Villermes,  having  objected  to  his 
wearing  a  knot  which  had  adorned  the  bosom  of  the  beau- 
tiful Agnes,  daughter  to  the  duke  of  Berri,  had  defied  him 
to  mortal  combat,  and  had  required  that  they  should  fight 
armed  with  a  paper  buckler  and  a  helmet  of  flowers.  The 
combatants  having  accordingly  met  in  this  fantastic  array, 
Villermes  was  killed  in  the  encounter.  Tiran  having  re- 
covered from  eleven  wounds  he  had  received,  six  of  which, 
according  to  surgical  etiquette,  ought  to  have  been  mortal, 
killed  in  one  day  four  knights,  who  were  brothers  in  arms, 
and  who  proved  to  be  the  dukes  of  Burgimdy  and  Bavaria, 
and  the  kings  of  Poland  and  Friezeland.  This  last  monarch 
found  an  avenger  in  one  of  his  subjects,  Kyrie  Eleison,  or. 
Lord  have  mercy  upon  us,  who  was  suspected  of  a  descent 
from  the  ancient  giants.  On  arriving  in  England,  this 
champion  visited  the  tomb  of  his  master,  and  expired  of 
grief  on  beholding  his  monument,  and  the  arms  of  Tiran 
suspended  over  the  banners  of  his  sovereign.  His  place 
was  supplied  by  his  brother  Thomas  of  Montauban,  whose 
stature  afforded  still  more  unequivocal  symptoms  of  gigantic 
ancestry.  In  spite  of  his  pedigree,  or  perhaps  in  conse- 
quence of  it,  as  giants  were  always  unlucky  in  the  romantic 
ages,  he  was  overthrown  by  Tiran,  and  consented  to  beg  his 
life. 

Here  ends  the  relation  of  the  exploits  of  Tiran,  during 


CH.  v.]  TIRANTE    THE    WHITE.  401 

the  marriage  festivals  of  England.  From  the  hermitage 
of  the  earl  of  Warwick  he  returns  to  Britany,  where  a 
messenger  soon  after  arrives  with  intelligence  that  Kliodes 
and  its  knights  are  closely  besieged  by  the  Genoese  and 
the  sultan  of  Cairo.  Tiran  sets  out  for  the  relief  of  this 
island,  and  takes  Philip,  the  youngest  son  of  the  king  of 
France,  along  with  him.  In  the  course  of  their  voyage 
they  anchor  in  the  roads  of  Palenno.  The  king  of  Sicily 
throws  over  a  platform  from  the  port  to  the  vessel  of 
Tiran,  and  covers  it  with  ta^^estry,  hanging  down  to  the 
sea.  Tiran  and  his  companions,  having  been  treated  on 
shore  with  corresponding  magnificence,  proceed  on  their 
destination.  The  siege  of  Rhodes  is  raised  immediately  on 
their  landing,  and  after  this  success  they  return  to  Sicily, 
where  Philip  is  united  to  the  princess  of  that  country. 

Soon  after  the  marriage  of  Philip  and  the  princess,  a 
messenger  from  the  emperor  of  Constantinople  announces 
the  invasion  of  his  master's  territories  by  a  Moorish  soldan 
and  the  G-rand  Turk.  Our  hero  proceeds  to  the  succour  of 
the  Greek  empire,  and  immediately  on  his  arrival  is  en- 
trusted by  its  sovereign  with  the  chief  command  of  the 
forces.  After  Tiran  receives  this  appointment,  a  great 
part  of  the  romance  is  occupied  -vvith  long  details  of  the  war 
carried  on  against  the  Turks,  who  are  defeated  in  several 
pitched  battles.  In  one  of  these  the  kings  of  Cappadocia 
and  Egypt,  and  a  hundred  thousand  men,  are  killed  on  the 
part  of  the  enemy ;  the  sultan,  the  king  of  Africa,  the 
Grand  Turk,  and  Grand  Turk's  son,  are  severely  wounded ; 
with  a  loss  of  only  twelve  hundred  and  thirty-four  men  on 
the  side  of  the  Greeks.  Being  imable  to  withstand  such 
inequality  of  slaughter,  the  Turks  are  forced  to  solicit  a 
tiiice.  This  being  granted,  the  interval  of  repose  is  occu- 
pied with  splendid  festivals  and  tournaments,  held  at  Con- 
stantinople. During  this  period,  Urganda,  sister  of  the 
renowned  Arthur,  arrives  at  Constantinople  in  quest  of  her 
brother.  The  emperor  exhibits  to  her  an  old  gentleman 
he  kej^t  in  a  cage,  whom  she  speedily  recognizes  as  the  ob- 
ject of  her  search.  As  long  as  he  retains  his  sword,  the 
famed  Escalibor,  in  his  hand,  he  returns  most  j^ertinent 
answers  to  the  questions  addressed  to  him ;  but  when  de- 
prived of  this  support,  his  observations  become  extremely 

I.  D  D 


402  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

infantile.  Urganda  is  permitted  to  take  liim  along  with 
her.  On  the  same  evening  she  gives  a  splendid  supper,  in 
the  vessel  in  which  she  had  arrived,  to  the  emperor  and  his 
court,  and  sets  sail  with  her  brother  next  morning.  But  it 
is  not  said  how  Arthur  found  his  way  to  Constantinople, 
nor  where  he  went  after  his  dej^arture.  In  this  stage,  too, 
of  the  romance,  the  intrigues  of  the  G-reek  ladies  with  the 
French  knights  who  had  accompanied  Tiran  to  Constan- 
tinople, are  related,  and  the  particulars  of  some  of  them 
detailed  with  unnecessary  minuteness.  Hyppolito  seduces, 
or  rather  is  seduced  by,  the  empress ;  and  Diofebo,  after- 
wards created  duke  of  Macedonia,  carries  on  an  amour  with 
Stej^hania,  one  of  the  attendants  of  Carmesina,  daughter  of 
the  emperor.  Tiran  becomes  enamoured  of  this  princess, 
who,  during  day,  was  always  surrounded  by  a  hundred  and 
seventy  damsels ;  but  at  other  seasons  he  has  frequent 
interviews  with  her,  by  favour  of  one  of  her  attendants, 
called  Plazirdemavida.  The  good  understanding,  however, 
which  subsisted  between  Tiran  and  the  princess,  is  at  length 
interrupted  by  the  plots  of  the  Vedova  Reposada,  another 
attendant,  who,  having  fallen  in  love  with  Tiran,  contrives 
to  make  him  jealous  of  her  mistress,  by  a  stratagem  re- 
sembling that  which  deceives  Claudio  in  Much  Ado  about 
Nothing,  and  also  the  lover  of  G-eneura  in  the  fifth  canto  of 
the  Orlando  Furioso. 

The  truce  between  the  Turks  and  Christians  being  ex- 
pired, Tiran  sets  out  for  the  army  without  taking  leave  of 
the  princess.  While  the  vessel  in  which  he  was  to  be  con- 
veyed is  still  at  anchor  in  the  roads,  she  despatches  Plazir- 
demavida to  inquire  into  the  reasons  of  his  conduct ;  but 
a  storm  having  meanwhile  arisen,  and  the  ship  having 
been  driven  from  its  moorings,  her  emissary  is  unable  to 
return  to  Constantinople,  and  the  vessel  is  carried  towards 
the  coast  of  Africa.  Two  mariners  convey  Plazirdemavida 
on  shore.  Tiran  remains  with  a  single  sailor  in  the 
vessel,  until  it  is  at  length  wrecked  on  the  coast  of  Tunis. 
While  wandering  on  the  shore,  our  hero  meets  accidentally 
with  the  ambassador  of  the  king  of  Tremecen,  is  con- 
ducted by  him  to  court,  and  proves  of  great  service  to 
that  monarch  in  the  wars  in  which  he  was  engaged.  On 
one  occasion  Tiran  besieges  the  town  of  Montagata,  when, 


CH.  v.]  TIRANTE    THE    WHITE.  403 

to  his  groat  surprise,  Plazirdemavida,  whom  he  believed 
lost,  comes  to  his  camp  to  intercede  for  the  inhabitants, 
and  is  now  appointed  queen  of  an  extensive  territory. 
Tiran,  bv  means  of  similar  alliances  and  conquests,  is 
enabled  to  embark  a  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  infantry, 
and  eighty-eight  thousand  cavalry,  for  the  succour  of  the 
Greek  emperor.  Soon  after  his  return  to  Constantinople 
with  this  formidable  armament,  he  burns  the  Turkish 
fleet,  and,  by  taking  a  strong  position  in  rear  of  their 
army  (which  rendered  a  retreat  impracticable),  he  ulti- 
mately secures  an  advantageous  peace. 

Splendid  preparations  are  now  made  for  the  nuptials  of 
Tiran  and  Carmesina ;  an  event  which  Tiran  had  rendered 
insipid  before  his  last  expedition  against  the  Turks.  While 
on  his  return  to  Constantinople,  after  the  conclusion  of  the 
treaty,  he  receives  orders,  at  the  distance  of  a  day's  journey 
from  the  city,  to  wait  till  the  jDreparations  be  completed. 
In  this  interval,  while  lounging  one  day  on  the  banks  of  a 
river,  and  conversing  on  his  happiness  with  the  kings  of 
Ethioj^ia,  Fez,  and  Sicily,  he  is  seized  with  a  pleurisy,  and 
expires  soon  after.  When  this  intelligence  is  brought  to 
Constantinople,  the  emperor  dies  of  grief  ;  and  the  demise 
of  the  princess  on  the  same  day  completes  the  triple  mor- 
tality. The  empress  having  given  orders  for  the  funerals, 
passes  the  ensuing  night  with  her  lover  Hyppolito,  who 
redoubles  her  impatience  to  share  with  him  the  throne  to 
which  she  had  now  succeeded.  After  a  joint  reign  of  three 
years,  she  bequeaths  to  him  the  empire,  and  her  place  is 
supplied  by  a  daughter  of  the  king  of  England.^ 

I  have  been  thus  minute  in  the  account  of  Tirante  the 
White,  as  it  is  one  of  the  three  romances  preserved  in  the 
scrutiny  of  Don  Quixote's  library.  "By  her  taking  so 
many  romances  together,"  says  Cervantes,  "  there  fell  one 
at  the  barber's  feet,  who  had  a  mind  to  see  what  it  was, 
and  found  it  to  be  Tirante  the   White.      God  save  me, 

^  The  celebrated  Baron  Grimm,  "who  did  not,  it  seems,  add  to  his 
other  quahfications  the  charms  of  an  agreeable  person,  took  incredible 
pains  to  supply  his  natural  deficiency  by  the  artificial  resources  of  the 
toilet.  The  quantity  of  ceruse,  or  white  paint,  with  which  he  daily 
filled  up  the  lines  and  wrinkles  of  his  face,  joined  to  his  want  of  mode- 
ration in  the  enjoyment  of  his  bomies  fortunes,  procured  for  him  the 
appellation  of  Tyran  le  Blanc." 


404  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

quotli  the  priest,  witli  a  loud  voice,  is  Tirante  the  White 
there  ?  Give  me  him  here,  neighbour,  for  I  shall  find  in 
him  a  treasure  of  delight  and  a  mine  of  entertainment. 
Here  we  have  Don  Kyrie  Eleison  of  Montalvan,  a  valorous 
knight,  and  his  brother  Thomas  of  Montalvan,  and  the 
knight  Fonseca,  and  the  combat  which  the  valiant  De- 
triante  fought  with  Alano  ;  and  the  smart  conceits  of  the 
damsel  Plazerdemavida,  with  the  amours  and  artifices  of 
the  widow  Reposada,  and  madam  the  empress  in  love  with 
her  squire  Hyppolito."  He  then  advises  the  housewife  to 
take  it  home,  and  read  it ;  "  for  though,"  continues  the 
priest,  "  the  author  deserved  to  be  sent  to  the  galleys  for 
writing  so  many  foolish  things  seriously,  yet,  in  its  way,^ 
it  is  the  best  book  in  the  world.  Here  the  knights  eat  and 
sleep,  and  die  in  their  beds,  and  make  their  wills  before 
their  death,  with  several  things  which  are  wanting  in  all 
other  books  of  this  kind." 

It  cannot,  indeed,  be  denied,  that  Tirante  the  White  is 
of  a  nature  altogether  different  from  the  other  romances  of 
chivalry.  It  possesses  much  more  quaintness  and  plea- 
santry. Nor  is  it  occupied  with  the  detached  adventures 
of  a  dozen  different  knights  ;  the  attention  is  constantly 
fixed  on  the  adventures  of  Tiran,  of  whom  the  reader  never 
loses  sight,  and,  except  in  the  account  of  the  fetes  in  Eng- 
land, which  occupies  a  small  part  of  the  work,  there  are 
hardly  any  tournaments  or  single  combats.  Tiran  is  more 
a  skilful  commander  than  a  valiant  knight,  and  subdues 
his  enemies  more  by  a  knowledge  in  the  art  of  war,  than 
by  his  personal  courage.  In  other  romances  the  heroes  are 
only  endowed  with  bravery,  all  besides  is  the  work  of 
magicians.  Tiran,  on  the  contrary,  performs  nothing  in- 
credible, everything  he  does  lies  within  the  sphere  of 
human  capacity.  Giants,  so  prevalent  in  other  romances, 
are  here  dwindled  to  nothing.  Kyrie  Eleison  and  his 
brother  Tliomas  are  but  meagre  monsters.  No  helpless 
females  are  protected,  no  enchanted  castles  restored  to  the 
ordinary  properties  of  stone  and  lime.  I  remember, 
indeed,  no  magical  story,  except  that  of  Espertius,  who, 
while  on  his  way  from  Africa  to  assist  Tiran  at  Constan- 

^  Per  su  estilo.     This  has  been  rendered  "in  point  of  style,*'  by  some 
of  the  translators  of  Cervantes. 


CH.  v.]  TIRANTE    THE    WHITE,  405 

tinople,  is  driven  on  the  island  of  Cos,  where  he  restores 
the  daughter  of  Hippocrates  to  her  original  form.  She 
appeared  to  him  in  the  shape  of  a  dragon,  into  which  she 
had  been  changed  liy  Diana  ;  but,  by  consenting  to  kiss 
her  on  the  mouth,  the  knight  effected  her  transformation. 
A  belief  in  a  tradition  precisely  the  same  is  attributed  to 
the  inhabitants  of  Cos,  in  a  book  of  modem  French 
travels,  of  which  I  have  forgotten  the  title.  Sir  John 
Mandeville,  in  his  Travels,  also  relates  a  story  somewhat 
similar.  Speaking  of  an  enchanted  dragon  in  the  isle  of 
Cos,  "  a  yonge  man,"  says  he,  "  that  wiste  not  of  the 
dragoun,  went  out  of  a  shij^pe,  and  went  throghe  the  isle, 
till  that  he  cam  into  the  cave ;  here  he  saw  a  damsel  who 
bad  him  come  agen  on  the  morwe,  and  then  come  and 
kysse  hire  on  the  mouth,  and  have  no  drede,  for  I  schall 
do  the  no  manner  harm,  alle  be  it  that  thou  see  me  in  like- 
ness of  a  dragoun,  for  thoughe  thou  see  me  hideous  and 
horrible  to  loken  oune,  I  do  the  to  w}^ten  that  it  is  made 
be  enchantment,  for  withouten  doubt  I  am  none  other 
than  thou  seest  now,  an  woman,  and  zyff  thou  kysse  me 
thou  shalt  have  all  this  tresure,  and  be  my  lord,  and  lord 
also  of  that  isle."  This  ambiguous  lady,  however,  was  not 
the  daughter  of  Hippocrates,  the  dragon  of  the  Spanish 
I'oniance,  who,  according  to  Sir  John  Mandeville,  fre- 
quented a  different  island,  *'  and  some  men  seyne  that  in 
the  isle  of  Lango  is  yit  the  daughter  of  Ypocras,  in  forme 
and  likenesse  of  a  great  dragoun,  that  is  a  hundred  fadme 
in  length  as  men  seyne,  for  I  have  not  seen  hire,  and  thei 
of  the  isles  callen  hire  Ladie  of  the  Land," — a  fiction 
which  may  partly  have  originated  in  one  of  that  physician's 
children  being  called  Draco,  a  circumstance  mentioned  by 
Suidas  on  the  authority  of  Galen.  The  story  of  Esj^ertius 
and  the  daughter  of  Hippocrates  was  probably  conveyed  to 
the  author  of  Tirante  by  some  obscure,  but  2:>revalent  tradi- 
tion ;  and,  through  the  medium  of  this  work,  a  similar 
incident  has  been  adoj^ted  in  innumerable  tales  of  wonder 
and  many  romantic  poems.  In  the  25th  and  26tli  cantos 
of  the  second  book  of  Berni's  "  Orlando  Inamorato,"  the 
paladin  Brandimarte,  after  surmounting  many  obstacles, 
l^enetrates  into  the  recesses  of  an  enchanted  palace.  Tliere 
he  finds  a  fair  damsel  seated  upon  a  tomb,  who  announces 


406  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

to  Mm,  that  in  order  to  achieve  her  deliverance,  he  must 
raise  the  lid  of  the  sepulchre,  and  kiss  whatever  being 
should  issue  forth.  The  knight,  having  j^ledged  his  faith, 
proceeds  to  open  the  tomb,  out  of  which  a  monstrous 
snake  raises  itself  with  a  tremendous  hiss.  Brandimarte 
with  much  reluctance  fulfils  the  conditions  of  the  adven- 
ture, and  the  monster  is  instantly  changed  into  a  beautiful 
fairy,  who  loads  her  deliverer  with  benefits  (Scott's  "  Min- 
strelsy," vol.  ii.  p.  84).  In  the  ballad  of  Kempion,  the 
prince  of  that  name  effects  a  similar  transformation  by  a 
similar  effort.  There  is  a  like  story  in  the  6th  tale  of  the 
Contes  Amoureux  de  Jean  Flore,  written  toward  the  end 
of  the  fifteenth  century. 

The  second  Catalonian  romance  to  which  I  formerly 
alluded,  is  that  of 

Partenopex  de  Blois,^ 

which  was  written  in  the  Catalonian  dialect  in  the  thirteenth 
century,  and  printed  at  Tarragona  in  1488.  The  Castilian 
translation  appeared  at  Alcala,  1513,  4to,  and  afterwards 
in  1547."  M.  Le  G-rand,  however,  has  endeavoured  to 
establish  that  this  work  was  originally  French,  and  informs 
us  that  his  own  modern  version,  appended  to  his  Contes  et 
Fabliaux,  is  made  from  a  manuscript  poem  in  the  library 
of  St.  Germain  des  Prcs,  which  he  conjectures  to  be  of  the 
twelfth  century. 

The  Princess  Melior  succeeded  her  father  Julian  in  the 
G-reek  empire.  Though  well  qualified  to  govern,  from 
natural  talents,  and  the  advantages  derived  from  a  know- 
ledge of  magic,  her  subjects  insisted  on  her  selecting  a 
husband,  but  granted  two  years  for  the  choice.  She  ac- 
cordingly despatched  emissaries  to  all  the  courts  of 
Europe,  with  instructions  to  enable  these  messengers  to 
make  a  judicious  election. 

At  this  time  there  lived  in  France  a  young  man,  called 

^  Libro  del  esforzado  Cavallero  Conde  Partinuples  que  fue  Emperador 
de  Constantinopla. 

^  A  Danish  version  was  printed  in  1560  and  1572.  The  story  was 
circulated  as  a  chapbook  among  the  Netherlands  in  the  seventeenth 
century. 


CH.    v.]  PARTENOPEX    DE    BLOIS.  407 

Partenopex  do  Blois,  who  was  nephew  to  the  king  of  Paris. 
One  day,  while  hunting  with  his  nncle  in  the  forest  of 
Ardennes,  he  is  sejxirated  from  his  party  while  pursuing  a 
wild  boar,  and  night  falling,  he  loses  his  way  in  the  woods. 
On  the  following  day,  after  long  wandering,  he  comes  to 
the  sea- shore,  and  perceives  a  splendid  vessel  moored  near 
the  land,  which  he  enters  to  ascertain  if  any  person  were 
on  board,  but  he  finds  no  one.  Now  this  pinnace  happened 
to  be  enchanted,  and,  disdaining  the  vulgar  operations  of  a 
pilot,  as  soon  as  Partenopex  had  embarked,  it  spontaneously 
steered  a  right  course,  and  after  a  prosperous  voyage, 
arrived  in  the  bay  of  a  delightful  country.  Vessels  of  this 
sort  are  common  in  romance.  There  is  one  in  the  beautiful 
fabhau  of  Gugemar.  In  the  7th  canto  of  the  Einaldo  we 
have  an  enchanted  bark,  which  was  solely  directed  by  the 
force  of  magic,  and  invariably  conducted  the  knights  who 
entered  it  to  some  splendid  adventure.^  A  self -navigated 
gondelav  is  also  introduced  in  Spenser's  "  Faery  Queen  " 
(b.  ii.  c*  6)  :— 

Eftsoones  her  shallow  ship  away  did  slide, 

More  swift  than  swallow  sheres  the  liquid  skye, 

Withouten  care  or  pilot  it  to  guide. 

Or  winged  canvas  with  the  wind  to  fly ; 

For  it  was  taught  the  way  which  she  would  have, 

And  both  from  rocks  and  flats  itself  could  wisely  save. 

The  finest  of  these  barks  is  that  which  conducts  the 
Christian  knights,  in  their  search  of  Einaldo,  to  the  resi- 
dence of  Armida.  This  fiction,  however,  was  not  the 
invention  of  the  middle  ages,  but  is  of  classical  origin  ; 
vessels  of  this  nature  being  described  by  Alcinous  to 
Ulysses,  in  the  8th  book  of  the  Odyssey  : — 

So  shalt  thou  instant  reach  the  realms  assign'd, 

In  wondrous  ships  self -moved,  inspired  with  mind  ; 

No  helm  secures  their  course,  no  pilot  guides, 

Like  man,  intelligent,  they  plough  the  tides, 

Conscious  of  every  coast,  and  every  bay, 

That  lies  beneath  the  sun's  all-seeing  ray  ; 

Though  clouds  and  darkness  veil  the  encumber'd  sky, 

Fearless  through  darkness  and  through  clouds  they  fly. 

^  Spiritually  directed  ships  also  form  a  feature  in  the  Greater  Graal 
Romance. 


408  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

Partenopex  having  disembarked  from  liis  magical  con- 
veyance, approached  and  entered  a  castle  of  marvellous 
extent  and  beauty,  which  stood  near  the  harbour.  In  the 
saloon,  which  was  lighted  by  diamonds,^  he  finds  prepared 
an  exquisite  repast,  but  no  one  ajipears.     Attendance  could 

^  Truth  is  stranger  than  fiction.  It  would  be  perfectly  possible  to  rea- 
lize approximately  this  idea  by  the  aid  of  modern  science.  In  a  lecture  de- 
livered at  the  Royal  Institution  on  Api-il  4.  1879,  Mr.  William  Crookes, 
r.R.S.,  exhibited  the  phosphorescent  phenomena  of  diamonds  and  rubies 
in  glass  vessels  from  which  the  air  had  been  nearly  exhausted,  and  the 
remaining  atmospheric  molecules  set  in  movement  by  electricity.  One 
diamond  shone  with  a  brilliant  blue  light,  another  *'  with  as  much  light  as 
a  candle,  phosphorescing  of  a  bright  green."  Mr.  Crookes  considered  the 
diamond  the  most  sensitive  substance  he  had  met  with  "  for  ready  and 
brilliant  phosphorescence.  .  .  .  Next  to  the  diamond  the  ruby  is  one  of 
the  most  remarkable  stones  for  phosphorescing."  At  the  same  lecture 
a  small  heap  of  these  stones  was  exhibited,  "  shining  with  a  brilliant 
rich  red  colour,  as  if  they  were  glowing  hot."  See,  supra,  Huon  of 
Bordeaux,  p.  307.  See  also  the  story,  from  the  Gesta  Romanorum, 
entitled  De  Imagine  cum  digite  dicente,  and  note  upon  it.  The  belief  in 
the  inherent  luminosity  of  certain  stones  seems  to  have  been  widely 
diffused  ;  at  all  events  luminous  gems  are  an  important  property  in 
legendal  and  imaginative  literature.  According  to  an  Eastern  story  the 
pit  into  which  Joseph  was  cast  by  his  brethren  was  illumined  by  a  jewel 
(\yeil,  Bible,  Koran,  and  Talmud  — Story  of  Joseph).  The  Eastern  ruby 
especially  seems  to  have  been  credited  with  the  power  of  giving  light. 
The  Persians  called  it  "  Torch  of  the  Night"  (Chardin,  Voyages,  Paris, 
1811).     Mahomet's  tomb  was  feigned  to  be  illuminated  by  such  a  stone. 

Une  lampe  de  cristal  cler ; 
Devant  la  tombe  de  Mahon  pent. 
II  n'a  riens  dedens,  et  si  rent 
Tel  clarte  k'il  saule  qu'  ele  art ; 
Elle  i  fut  assise  par  art. 
Chil  qui  I'uevre  sutilia 
Auchune  piere  mise  i  a, 
Prope  a  escarboucle  fine 
Qui  la  lampe  enlumine. 
Roman  de  Mahomet,  v.  1934,  ed.  Du  Pont,  p.  81. 

Prope  (pyrope)  is  a  name  given  to  the  ruby  on  account  of  its  supposed 
luminosity,  just  as  carbunculus  refers  to  an  incandescant  coal.  Cf.  also 
the  following  verses  of  the  mediaeval  sequence,  Ave  Virgo  Nobilis, 
etc.  : — 

''  Approbat  carbunculus, 

Lucens  nocte  oculus, 

Longe,  late,  largiter 

Laudis  tuae  jugiter 
Eamam  dilatari." 
See,  further.  Add.  Note  on  Luminous  Stones. 


CH.  V.J  PARTENOPEX    DE    BLOIS.  409 

be  the  better  disi>ensed  with,  as  the  dainties  placed  them- 
selves of  their  own  accord  on  his  lips.  After  he  had  taken 
advantage  of  their  hospitality,  a  lighted  torch  showed  him 
the  way  to  his  bed-chamber,  where  he  was  undressed  by 
invisible  hands.  The  notion  of  such  a  ]>alace,  like  many 
other  incidents  in  this  romance,  must  have  been  suggested 
by  the  story  of  Cupid  and  Psyche  in  Apuleius.  A  similar 
fiction  has  been  adopted  l)y  the  earliest  romantic  poet  of 
Italy  :  in  the  second  canto  of  the  Morgaute  Maggiore,  that 
giant  comes  with  his  master  Orlando  to  a  splendid  and 
mysterious  castle,  in  which  the  apartments  are  richly 
furnished,  and  the  table  spread  with  every  sort  of  wines 
and  provisions.  After  the  guests  have  j^artaken  of  a 
sumptuous  repast,  they  retire  to  rest  on  rich  couches  pre- 
pared for  their  repose,  no  one  having  appeared  in  the 
course  of  the  entertainment. 

When  Partenopex  had  gone  to  bed,  and  the  lights  had 
been  extinguished,  a  lady  entered  the  apartment,  who, 
after  some  tedious  expostulation  on  the  freedom  he  had 
used  in  usurping  the  usual  place  of  her  repose,  evinced 
a  strong  determination  not  to  be  put  out  of  her  way.  In 
the  course  of  the  night  his  companion  accjuaints  him  that 
she  is  Melior  of  Constantinople,  who,  it  will  be  remembered, 
was  a  great  empress  and  a  fairy  at  the  same  time.  Having 
fallen  in  love  with  Partenopex,  on  report  of  her  emissaries, 
she  had  contrived  the  enchantments  he  had  lately  wit- 
nessed. She  farther  intimated,  that  he  was  to  remain  at 
her  castle,  but  that  he  would  forfeit  her  affections  if  he 
attempted  to  obtain  a  sight  of  her  person  before  the  lapse 
of  two  years  ;  a  deprivation  for  which  she  seemed  disposed 
to  compensate  by  the  most  ample  gratification  of  his  other 
senses.  In  the  morning  the  most  splendid  habiliments 
were  brought  him  l)y  Uracla,  the  sister  of  the  empress 
fairy.  Having  dogs  and  horses  at  his  command,  he 
usually  spent  the  day  in  hunting,  and  in  the  evenings  was 
entertained  by  a  concert  from  invisible  musicians. 

Anxious,  at  length,  to  revisit  his  native  country,  which 
he  learned  had  l>een  attacked  by  foreign  enemies,  Parteno- 
pex hazarded  an  exj^osition  of  his  wishes  to  his  mistress, 
who,  after  exacting  a  promise  of  return,  accommodates 
him  with  the  magic  sloop  in  which  he  had  arrived,  and 


410  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

which  in  a  short  while  conveys  him  to  France.  On  the 
evening  he  landed  he  sets  out  for  Paris,  and  on  his  way 
meets  with  a  knight,  whom  he  discovers  to  be  G-andin,  the 
lover  of  TJracla.  The  strictest  intimacy  arises  between 
these  two  persons  after  a  dreadful  combat;  a  mode  of 
introduction,  which,  though  now  fallen  into  disuse,  was  the 
usual  commencement  of  friendship  in  those  chivalrous 
ages : — 

Deux  CheAaliers  qui  se  sont  bien  battus, 

Soit  k  Cheval,  soil  a  la  noble  escrime, 

Avec  le  sabre  ou  de  longs  fers  pointus, 

De  pied  en  cap  tout  eouverts,  ou  tout  nus, 

Ont  I'un  pour  I'autre  une  secrete  estime  ; 

Et  chacun  d'eux  exalte  les  vertus 

Et  les  grands  coups  de  son  digne  adversaire, 

Lorsque  surtout  il  n'est  plus  en  colere  : 

Mais  s'il  advient,  apres  ce  beau  conflit, 

Quelque  accident — quelque  triste  fortune, 

Quelque  misere  a  tons  les  deux  commune, 

Incontinent,  le  Malheur  les  unit; 

L'Amitie  nait  de  leurs  destins  contraires, 

Et  deux  heros  persecutes  sont  Freres. 

La  Pucelle,  Preface  au  chant  ix. 

Expell'd  their  native  homes  by  adverse  fate, 
They  knock'd  alternate  at  each  other's  gate  ; 
Then  blazed  the  castle  at  the  midnight  hour 
For  hira  whose  arms  had  shook  its  tirmest  tower. 

Soon  after  the  arrival  of  Partenopex  in  France,  Angelica, 
the  pope's  niece,  who  was  at  this  time  residing  at  the  court 
of  Paris,  falls  in  love  with  him,  and  in  order  to  detach  him 
from  his  engagement  with  the  fairy,  which  she  had  dis- 
covered by  means  of  an  intercepted  letter,  she  employs  a 
holy  man,  who  repaired  to  Partenopex,  and  denounced 
Melior  as  a  demon.  He  found  that  her  lover  was  proof 
against  an  insinuation  with  regard  to  his  mistress  possess- 
ing a  serpent's  tail,  which  he  begged  to  be  excused  from 
crediting,  but  that  he  was  somewhat  startled  by  the  assurance 
that  she  had  a  black  skin,  white  eyes,  and  red  teeth. 

Partenopex  having  returned  to  the  residence  of  the  fairy, 
resolves  to  satisfy  himself  the  first  night  he  passes  in  her 
company,  as  to  the  truth  of  her  possessing  the  perfections 
attributed  to  her  in  France.  On  raising  a  lamp  to  her 
countenance,  he  has  the  satisfaction  to  find  she  has  been 


CH.  v.]  PARTENOPEX    DE    BLOIS.  411 

cruelly  traduced ;  but,  as  she  unfortunately  awakes,  from 
a  drop  of  wax  falling  on  her  bosom,  he  incurs  her  utmost 
resentment.  His  life  is  spared  at  the  intercession  of  Uracla, 
but,  being  forced  to  leave  the  castle,  he  repairs  to  the  forest 
of  Ardennes,  having  adopted  the  scheme  of  presenting  his 
person  as  food  for  the  wild  beasts,  with  which  that  district 
abounded.  This  consummation,  however  desirable,  was 
retarded  by  unaccountable  circumstances ;  for  though  tan- 
talized during  a  whole  night  by  the  roaring  of  lions  and 
hissing  of  serpents,  who  gave  repeated  demonstrations  of 
accommodating  the  knight,  the  provoking  animals  avoided 
all  personal  intercourse,  and  one  of  the  monsters  selected 
the  horse  of  Partenopex  in  preference  to  his  master.  The 
neighings  of  the  steed  brought  Uracla  to  the  spot,  who  had 
set  out  in  quest  of  Partenopex  on  perceiving  some  relenting 
symptoms  on  the  part  of  her  sister.  Partenopex,  all  hopes 
of  personal  deglutition  being  at  an  end,  consented  to  ac- 
company Uracla  to  her  castle  in  Tenedos,  there  to  await  the 
resolves  of  the  empress  fairy.  Leaving  Partenopex  in  this 
abode,  Uracla  set  out  on  a  visit  to  her  sister,  and,  relying 
on  the  prowess  of  Partenopex,  persuaded  her  to  declare 
that  she  would  bestow  her  hand  on  the  victor,  in  a  tourna- 
ment she  was  about  to  proclaim.  The  princesses  of  ro- 
mance frequently  offer  their  hand  to  the  conqueror  in  a, 
tournament,  perhaps  on  the  same  principle  on  which  Bayle 
says  Penelope  promised  to  espouse  the  suitor  who  should 
bend  the  bow  of  Ulysses. 

While  preparations  were  making  for  the  tournaments, 
Parseis,  an  attendant  of  Uracla,  having  become  enamoured 
of  Partenopex,  took  him  out  one  day  in  a  boat.  After 
some  time,  Partenopex  remarked  to  her  the  distance  they 
were  from  land.  The  damsel  then  made  an  unequivocal 
declaration  of  attachment,  and  confessed  she  had  recourse 
to  this  stratagem  to  have  an  opportunity  for  the  avowal. 
Partenopex,  who  perhaps  saw  no  insurmountable  objec- 
tion to  a  communication  of  this  nature  on  shore,  began  to 
express  much  dissatisfaction  at  his  cruise ;  but  his  com- 
plaints were  interrupted  by  a  tempest,  which  drove  the 
vessel  to  the  coast  of  Syria ;  Partenopex,  being  forced  to 
land,  was  seized  by  the  natives,  and  became  the  prisoner  of 
King  Herman.     During  his  captivity,  the  sultan  of  Persia, 


412  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  V. 

ordered  this  tributary  monarch  to  accompany  him  to  the 
tournaments  which  were  about  to  be  celebrated  at  Constan- 
tinople. After  his  departure,  Partenopex  having  contrived 
to  interest  the  queen  in  his  behalf,  was  allowed  to  escape, 
and  arrived  in  the  capital  of  the  eastern  empire  just  as  the 
tournaments  commenced.  His  most  formidable  antagonist 
was  the  sultan  of  Persia,  but  Partenopex  is  at  length,  by 
his  strength  and  courage,  permitted  to  lay  claim  to  the 
hand  of  the  rejoiced  and  forgiving  empress. 

The  romance  of  Partenopex  is  obviously  derived  from 
the  fable  of  Cupid  and  Psyche,  so  beautifully  told  by 
Apuleius.^  Psyche  is  borne  on  the  wings  of  Zej^hyr  to  the 
palace  of  her  divine  admirer.  Partenopex  is  transported  in 
a  self -navigated  bark,  before  a  favourable  breeze,  to  the 
mansion  of  Melior.  Both  are  entertained  at  a  banquet 
produced  by  invisible  agency,  and  similar  restrictions  on 
curiosity  are  imposed :  both  are  seduced  into  disobedience 
by  the  false  insinuations  of  friends,  and  adopt  the  same 
method  of  clearing  up  their  suspicions.  Banishment,  and 
a  forfeiture  of  favour,  are  the  punishments  inflicted  on  both ; 
and,  after  a  long  course  of  penance,  both  are  restored  to 
the  affections  of  their  supernatural  admirers.  '  These  re- 
semblances are  too  close  to  permit  us  to  doubt,  that  the 
story  of  Psyche  has,  directly  or  indirectly,  furnished  mate- 

^  As  to  this,  "  there  are  not  many  points  of  criticism  on  which  there 
has  been  a  more  general  consent,  among  those  who  have  paid  attention 
to  the  subject."  So  writes  the  Eev.  W.  E.  Buckley,  in  his  introduction 
to  his  edition  of  "  the  English  version  of  Partonope  of  Blois,"  printed 
for  the  Roxburghe  Club,  in  1862,  to  which  we  refer  the  reader  for  a 
careful  account  of  this  romance.  From  Mr.  Buckley's  remarks  it  will 
be  seen  that  M.  Francisque  Michel  has  found  Denis  Pyramus  to  be  the 
author  of  the  romance,  or  at  least  to  claim  the  invention  and  versi- 
fication of  the  poem,  which  M.  Amaury  Duval  would  include  among 
the  Komances  of  the  Round  Table,  and  M.  Robert,  on  the  other  hand, 
would  attach  to  the  Carlovingian  cycle.  The  name  Partonope,  or  Par- 
thenopex,  or  Partonopeus,  has  been  derived  by  jNIone  and  Graesse  from 
Parthenay,  in  Poitou,  and  not  from  Parthenopa^us,  one  of  the  Seven 
against  Thebes,  to  which  derivation  Mr.  Wai'd  leans  in  his  Catalogue, 
i.  p.  700.  A.  Mussafia,  in  his  Ueber  die  Spanischen  Versionen  der 
Historia  Tx-ojana,  shows  part  of  the  Spanish  versions  to  have  been  made 
directly  from  the  French  of  Benoit  de  St.  More,  while  othei's,  including 
a  Catalonian  translation  made  in  1367  by  J.  Conajsa,  is  directly  from 
Colonna's  text.  The  Italian  Binduccio  worked  on  the  French  version. 
See  Ward,  Catalogue  of  Romances,  etc. 


CH.  v.]  PARTENOPEX    DE    BLOIS.  41? 

rials  iov  tlie  fiction  with  which  we  liavo  been  engaged. 
Some  of  the  incidents  in  Partenojiex  have  also  a  close  re- 
semblance to  the  story  of  the  Prince  of  Fnttnn  and  Mher- 
banou,  in  the  Bahar-Danush,  or  Garden  of  Knowledge. 
That  wx^rk  was  indeed  posterior  to  the  composition  of  Par- 
tenopex  ;  luit  the  author  Inatulla  acknowledges  that  it  was 
compiled  from  Brahmin  traditions.  The  Peri,  who  is  the 
heroine  of  that  tale,  is  possessed  of  a  barge  covered  with 
jewels,  which  steered  without  sails  or  oars  ;  and  the  prince, 
while  in  search  of  its  incomparable  mistress,  arrives  at  a 
palace,  in  which  he  finds  the  richest  effects  and  prepara- 
tions for  festivity,  but  no  person  appears. 

Partenopex  de  Blois  was  translated  into  German,  pro- 
bably from  the  French  romans,  as  early  as  the  thirteenth 
century,  the  hero  and  his  mistress  being  denominated 
Partenopier  and  Meliure.  It  has  also  been  recently  versi- 
fied by  Mr.  Eose.  The  subject  is  happily  chosen,  as  the 
romantic  nature  of  the  incidents,  and  tenderness  of  the 
amatory  descriptions,  are  highly  susceptible  of  j^oetical 
embellishment.  Melior's  enchanted  palace  is  thus  de- 
scribed : — 

Fast  by  the  margin  of  the  tumbling  flood, 

Crown'd  with  embattled  towers,  a  castle  stood. 

The  marble  walls  a  chequer'd  field  display 'd, 

With  stones  of  many-colour  d  hues  inlaid  ; 

Tall  mills,  with  crystal  streams  encircled  round. 

And  villages,  with  rustic  plenty  crown'd — 

There,  fading  in  the  distance,  woods  were  seen 

With  gaily  glittering  spires,  and  battlements  between. 

Beneath  the  poi'ch,  in  rich  mosaic,  blaze 
The  sun,  and  silver  lamp  that  drinks  his  rays. 
Here  stood  the  symbol'd  elements  pourtray'd, 
And  nature  all  her  secret  springs  display'd  : 
Here  too  was  seen  whate'er  of  earlier  age, 
Or  later  time,  had  graced  the  historic  page; 
And  storied  loves  of  knights  and  courtly  dames, 
Pageants  and  triumphs,  tournaments  and  games. 


CHAPTER  YI. 

ROMANCES     OF     CHIVALRY     RELATING     TO     CLASSICAL     AND 

MYTHOLOGICAL    HEROES. LIVRE    DE    JASON. LA  VIE  DE 

HERCULE. ALEXANDRE,    ETC. 

IT  has  been  suggested  in  a  former  part  of  this  work,  that 
many  arbitrary  fictions  of  romance  are  drawn  from  the 
classical  and  mythological  authors ;  and  in  the  summary 
given  of  the  tales  of  chivalry,  a  few  instances  have  been 
pointed  out,  in  which  the  ancient  stories  of  Greece  have 
been  introduced,  modified  merely  by  the  manners  of  the 
age. 

Since  so  much  of  the  machinery  of  romance  has  been 
derived  from  classical  fiction,  it  would  have  been  strange 
had  not  the  heroes  of  antiquity  been  also  enlisted  under 
the  banners  of  chivalry.  Accordingly  we  find  that  Achilles, 
Jason,  and  Hercules,  were  early  adopted  into  romance,  and 
celebrated  in  common  with  the  knights  of  the  Round  Table, 
the  paladins  of  Charlemagne,  and  the  imaginary  lineage  of 
Amadis  and  Palmerin. 

And  though  the  purer  streams  of  classical  learning  were 
probably  withheld  from  the  romancers  of  the  middle  ages, 
spurious  materials  were  not  wanting  to  make  them  in  some 
degree  "  conscious  of  a  former  time." 

The  "  Tale  of  Troy  Divine"  had  been  kept  alive  in  two 
Latin  works,  which  passed  under  the  names  of  Dares 
Phrygius  and  Dictys  Cretensis.  The  former  was  a  Trojan 
priest,  mentioned  by  Homer, ^  and  was  believed  to  have 
written  an  account  of  the  destruction  of  Troy.    Julian  men- 

^  "  The  sons  of  Dares  first  the  combat  sought, 

A  wealthy  priest,  but  rich  without  a  fault ; 
In  Vulcan's  fane  the  father's  days  were  led, 
The  sons  to  tolls  of  glorious  battle  bred." 

Pope's  ''Iliad,"  b.  5. 


CH.  VI.]  HISTORIES    OF    DARES    AND    DICTYS,  415 

tions  that  the  history  of  Dares  Phrygius  was  extaut  in  his 
time,  but  he  probably  refers  to  some  spurious  author  who 
had  assumed  that  appellation.  At  length  an  obscure 
writer,  posterior  to  the  age  of  Con stan tine,  availing  himself 
of  this  tradition,  wrote  a  book,  which  he  entitled  De  Excidio 
Trojae,  and  which  professed  to  be  translated  from  the  work 
of  Dares  Phrygius,  by  Cornelius  Nepos.  A  pretended  epistle 
is  prefixed,  as  addressed  by  the  translator  to  Sallust,  in 
which  he  informs  his  friend  that  he  had  discovered  a  MS. 
in  the  handwriting  of  Dares,  while  studying  at  Athens, 
where  that  historian  had  always  been  held  in  higher  estima- 
tion than  Homer,  etc.  The  forgery,  sheltered  under  these 
specious  names,  was  a  current  and  credited  manuscript 
in  the  middle  ages,  and  was  first  published  at  Milan  in 
1477. 

The  work  which  bears  the  name  of  Dictys  Cretensis  is 
much  longer  and  better  written  than  the  composition  of 
Dares  Phrygius.  It  is  a  prose  Latin  history,  in  six  books, 
containing  an  account  of  the  Trojan  war,  and  the  fate  of 
the  Grecian  chiefs  after  their  return.  The  author  has 
principally  drawn  his  materials  from  the  Iliad,  but  has  also 
pillaged  other  poems  and  histories,  which  contained  infor- 
mation on  the  subject.  In  the  preface  to  this  work,  it  is 
said,  that  in  the  reign  of  Nero,  the  sepulchre  of  Dictvs, 
who  had  been  a  follower  of  Idomeneus  in  the  Trojan  war, 
was  thrown  oj^en  by  an  earthquake,  which  shook  the  city  of 
Gnossus  in  Crete.  In  the  gap  there  was  a  chest  found  by 
some  peasants,  who  carried  it  to  their  master  Eupraxis. 
By  him  it  was  transmitted  to  Nero,  and  was  then  found  to 
contain  the  history  of  the  wars  of  Ilium,  by  Dictys  Cre- 
tensis. After  the  preface  follows  the  dedicatory  epistle 
from  Septimius  to  Quintus  Arcadius,  who  lived  in  the  reign 
of  Constantine.  Septimius  professes  himself  to  be  the 
Latin  translator  of  the  work,  and  says  he  had  rendered  it 
into  that  language  from  the  copy  Eupraxis  transmitted  to 
Nero,  and  in  which  that  Cretan  had  merely  substituted 
Greek  letters  for  the  Phoenician  characters,  in  which  it  was 
originally  written.  Now  the  commonly  received  opinion, 
and  that  maintained  by  the  commentators  Yossius,  Mer- 
oerus,  and  Madame  Dacier,  is,  that  everything  here  is  a 
fiction :  that  it  is  false  that  a  Trojan  history  was  written 


416  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

by  Dictys ;  that  it  is  equally  untrue  that  any  work  of  this 
nature  was  presented  to  Nero  by  Eupraxis  ;  that  even  the 
letter  of  Septimius  is  a  forgery ;  and  that  the  work  was 
written  several  ages  230sterior  to  the  time  of  Constantino^ 
by  an  unknown  author,  who  feigned  the  story  of  the  trans- 
mission to  Nero,  and  the  translation  by  Septimius/  It  is 
certain,  however,  that  there  did  at  one  time  exist  a  Greek 
work  on  the  Trojan  war,  under  the  name  of  Dictys  Cre- 
tensis.  Of  this  several  fragments  are  preserved  by  Cedrenus 
in  his  annals,  and  the  book  has  been  used  by  Malela  in  his 
history.  These  Greek  fragments  and  quotations,  and  also 
the  title  of  the  work,  coincide  25i'etty  nearly  with  j)ortions 
of  the  Latin  Dictys.  It  is  not  therefore  altogether  impro- 
bable (as  has  been  attempted  to  be  shown  by  Perizonius^ 
in  a  very  ingenious  dissertation,)  that  the  work  was  origi- 
nally a  forgery  of  Eupraxis,  and  by  him  presented  as  an 
antique  to  Nero ;  that  Septimius  in  reality  translated  it 
from  the  Greek  of  Eupraxis,  and  that  the  Greek  frag- 
ments in  Cedrenus  and  Malela  are  parts  of  the  forgery  of 
Eupraxis. 

In  the  histories  of  Dares  and  Dictys,  everything  that 
related  to  mythology  and  the  fights  of  the  gods  was  ex- 
punged ;  and  thus  in  the  Tale  of  Troy,  a  vacancy  was  left 
for  the  introduction  of  romantic  embellishment.  The  story 
was  first  versified  in  the  metrical  composition  of  Benoit  de 
Sainte  More,  an  Anglo-Norman  poet,  who  lived  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  II.  of  England.  He  took  the  groundwork  of 
events  from  the  writings  of  Dares  and  Dictys ;  compre- 
hended in  his  plan  the  Theban  and  Argonautic  expeditions^ 
and  grafted  on  these  incidents  many  new  romantic  inven- 
tions, dictated  by  the  taste  of  his  age." 

This  metrical  work,  as  has  been  shown  by  Mr.  Douce,  is 
the  same  in  incident  and  decoration  with  the  Latin  prose 
chronicle  of  Guido  de  Colonna,  who  was  formerly  believed 

^  A.  Dederich  is  of  a  like  opinion.  See  his  edition  of  the  work,  Bonn, 
1837. 

^  See  Benoit  de  Sainte  More  et  le  Eoman  de  Troie ;  ou  les  meta- 
morphoses d'Homere  de  I'epopee  greco-latine  au  moyen  age.  Par  A. 
Joly,  Paris,  1870,  i.  4to,  and  Fischer's  "Der  Eoman  de  Troie''  (Leipzig?),, 
and  Wilhelm  Greif  s  "  Die  mittelalterlichen  Bearbeitungen  der  Trojaner- 
sage,  ein  neuer  Beitrag  zur  Dares-und  Dictjsfrage,"  1885.  The  work  is- 
to  be  completed  in  Stengel's  "  Ausgaben  und  Abhandlungen. ' 


CH.  VI.]    GuiDo  DE  colonna's  "  de  bello  trojano."    417 

to  have  wrought  solely  from  his  own  fancy,  and  from  the 
materials  of  Dares  and  Dictys,  as,  according  to  a  usual 
practice  in  the  middle  age,  he  concealed  his  originals. 
Guido  de  Colonna  was  a  native  of  Messina  ;  he  undertook 
his  work  at  the  request  of  the  bishop  of  Salerno,  and  com- 
pleted it,  as  he  himself  informs  us,  in  1287,  more  than  a 
hundred  years  subsequent  to  the  composition  of  its  metrical 
prototype.  This  grand  repertory  of  fiction,  which  is  in 
fifteen  books,  is  entitled  Historia  de  Bello  Trojano.  Dares 
and  Dictys  were  superseded  by  this  improved  and  comj^re- 
hensive  story  of  the  G-recian  heroes,  who  were  now  decked 
out  in  the  fasliion  of  the  age.  Achilles  and  Hector  were 
complete  heroes  of  chivalry,  and  Thersites  a  dwarf ;  the 
walls  of  Ilium  were  of  marble,  and  the  palace  of  Priam  was 
as  splendid  as  any  enchanted  castle  in  the  tales  of  chivalry. 
The  chronicle  of  Colonna  commences  with  Jason's  expedi- 
tion in  quest  of  the  Golden  Fleece,  and  the  first  destruction 
of  the  city  of  Laomedon  by  that  hero  and  Hercules.  A 
new  Troy,  rebuilt  by  Priam,  was  besieged  for  ten  years  by 
the  Greeks,  and  was  at  last  delivered  into  their  hands  by 
the  treachery  of  Antenor  and  ^^neas,  who,  on  pretence  of 
negotiating  a  treaty,  concerted  with  the  enemy  the  means 
of  carrying  off  the  Palladium,  and  of  introducing  the  fatal 
horse  into  the  city.  In  the  conclusion  of  the  work,  the 
misfortunes  of  the  Grecian  chiefs  on  their  return  home  are 
related.  The  story  of  the  death  of  Ulysses  has  much  the 
appearance  of  an  oriental  fiction.  After  his  arrival  in 
Greece,  it  was  foretold  to  that  hero  that  he  should  jierish 
by  the  hand  of  his  son.  Not  being  aware  that  he  had  any 
other  child  than  Telemachus,  he  thought  he  j^rovided  suf- 
ficiently for  security  by  shutting  him  uj)  in  a  strong 
fortress.  It  happened,  however,  that  Circe  had  borne  a  son 
to  Ulysses  after  his  departure  from  her  enchanted  island, 
who  having  learned  the  secret  of  his  birth,  when  he  grew 
up  set  out  in  quest  of  his  father,  and  arrived  in  Ithaca ;  but 
being  refused  admittance  at  the  entrance  to  the  palace,  he 
attacked  the  guards.  Ulysses  himself  issued  forth  to  their 
assistance,  and,  not  being  known  by  his  son,  fell  a  sacrifice 
to  his  rage,  and  thus  accomplished  the  prediction.  As  the 
act  was  involuntary,  the  youth  was  hospitably  entertained 
by  Telemachus,  and  after  being  knighted  by  him,  was  dis- 

I.  E  E 


418  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

missed  witli  due  lionour.  Casaubon  informs  us  that  this 
catastrophe  formed  the  plot  of  a  tragedy,  by  Sophocles,  on 
the  death  of  Ulysses,  not  now  extant. ' 

The  chronicle  of  Colonna  was  very  generally  read  in 
the  middle  ages ; "  but  the  classical  stories  were  still  more 
widely  diffused  in  Les  cent  Histoires  de  Troye,  en  Rime, 
which  were  written  in  the  fourteenth  century,  and  are  not 
confined  to  the  tale  of  Troy,  but  include  the  whole  history 
of  the  heroic  ages. 

This  metrical  production  formed  the  foundation  of  the 
EiCcueil  des  Histoires  de  Troyes,  written  in  prose  by  Raoul 
le  Fevre  about  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century.  Like 
the  work  from  which  it  was  derived,  it  comprehends  all 
the  fabulous  periods  of  G-reece.  The  first  part  contains  the 
beautiful  domestic  story  of  Jupiter  and  Saturn,  the  feats 
of  Perseus,  and  first  building  of  Troy ;  the  second  details 
the  exploits  of  Hercules,  and  the  third  recounts  the  de- 
struction of  Troy  by  the  Greeks.  This  compilation  was 
printed  by  Caxton,  without  date,  and  is  generally  believed  to 
be  the  first  impression  executed  by  that  celebrated  printer. 
Afterwards,  at  the  desire  of  Margaret,  duchess  of  Burgundy, 
he  translated  the  Recuyel  des  Histoires  de  Troye  into 
English,  and  published  his  version  at  G-hent  and  Cologne, 
which  was  the  first  book  j^rinted  in  the  English  language.^ 

From  the  materials  above  mentioned  there  were  formed 
a  number  of  prose  romances,  which  presented  mythological 
characters  in  the  guise  of  chivalry.  In  these  works,  the 
demi-gods  and  nymphs  of  paganism  are  not  drawn  as 
divinities  or  genii,  but  as  kings  and  knights,  and  ladies  of 
Greece  and  Asia.  The  adventures  are  no  doubt  abundantly 

^  It  was  entitled  :  NZ/rrpa  ?/  'OSvaaevg  aKavOoiikifi,  v.  Athen.  ed. 
Schweighaeuser,Animadv.  vol.  iv.  p.  43. — Lieb. 

^  The  hystorye,  sege,  and  dystruccyon  of  Troye,  translated  by 
Lydgate,  was  printed  in  1513. 

The  Gest  Hystoriale,  an  alliterative  romance  translated  from  G.  de 
Colonna's  work,  has  been  published  by  the  Early  English  Text  Society. 

^  Caxton  made  his  translation  in  1469-71.  Mr.  Blades,  "Life  and 
Typography  of  Caxton,"  vol,  i.  pp.  48,  51,  considers  that  the  Recuyell 
was  printed  in  1472-4  ?  and  that  the  French  original  was  printed  subse- 
quently. Though  by  no  means  one  of  the  rarest  of  Caxton's  productions, 
a  copy  was  purchased  so  long  ago  as  1812  for  the  sum  of  £1,060  10s.  by 
the  Duke  of  Devonshire. 


-CH.  VI.]  JASON    AND    MEDEA.  419 

chimerical,  but  are  such  as  mio^lit  have  happened  to  mortals 
endued  with  superior  qualities,  or  supposed  to  be  under 
the  iufiueuee  of  enchantment. 

Of  this  class  of  romances,  the  first  editions  were  printed 
without  date,  but  were  for  the  most  part  published  in  the 
•end  of  the  fifteenth  or  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  century. 
The  period  of  the  composition  of  some  of  them  can  be 
ascertained  more  accurately  than  that  of  most  other  tales 
of  chivalry. 

r^id'  ui^f/V'A^y»C  /U/)  hairraadat  crKCKpoc,  * 

Would  the  ship  Argo  ne'er  had  feteli'd  her  flight, 

but  it  was  natural  that  the  story  of  Medea,  which  is  drawn 
from  the  earliest  traditions  of  G-reece,  should  have  been 
adopted  in  romance.  That  terrific  magician  was  the  heroine 
of  three  epic  poems, ^  and  had  for  ages  been  seated  on  the 
pinnacle  of  tragic  renown :  the  traditions  concerning  her 
were,  consequently,  of  all  others  the  most  current,  and  had 
been  amply  detailed  in  the  metrical  romance  of  Benoit  de 
Sainte  More,  and  the  chronicle  of  Colonna.  Besides,  the 
story  of  Jason  and  Medea  must,  of  all  classical  fables,  have 
been  the  most  captivating  to  the  imagination  of  a  romancer. 
It  bore  a  striking  analogy  to  the  fictions  of  the  middle  ages, 
especially  those  concerning  the  paladins  of  Charlemagne,  in 
which  we  have  so  often  beheld  eastern  princesses  betraying 
and  deserting  their  kindred  for  the  sake  of  a  favourite  knight. 
The  author  of  the  romance  of 

Jason  and  Medea - 

calls  himself  Raoul  le  Febre:  his  work  is  addressed  to 
Philip  the  Good,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  probably  because  this 
prince  was  founder  of  the  order  called  Le  Toison  d'Or. 
Philip  succeeded  to  the  dukedom  in  1419,  and  died  in 
1467,  so  that  the  composition  of  the  romance  must  be 
:fixed  some  time  between  these  two  periods.  The  first 
French  edition  is  without  date.  An  English  translation 
was  printed  by  Caxton,  in  1475. 

Jason,  prince  of  the  Myrmidons,  from  his  earliest  youth 

^  Diinlop  probably  means  the  Argonautica  of  Apollonius  of  Rhodes, 
.and  of  Valerius  Flaceus  and  the  seventh  Book  of  Ovid's  "Metamor- 
phoses."— LlEB. 

■^  Livre  du  Freux  et  vaillant  Jason  et  de  la  belle  Medee. 


420  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VU 

distinguished  himself  at  tournaments.  In  one,  which  was 
held  by  the  King  of  Boeotia  to  solemnize  the  reception  of 
his  son  prince  Hercules  into  the  order  of  chivaliy,  he  over- 
threw all  his  antagonists.  From  Boeotia,  Jason  and  Her- 
cules being  associated  in  a  fraternity  of  arms,  proceeded  to 
attend  the  celebration  of  the  marriage  of  Hippodamia. 
The  nuptial  festivals  were  unpleasantly  interrupted  by  an 
inroad  of  the  Centaurs ;  but,  notwithstanding  the  advan- 
tages possessed  by  these  creatures  in  point  of  shape,  they 
were  exterminated  by  Jason.  His  next  exploit  was  freeing 
Queen  Mirro  from  an  unwelcome  lover  (who  was  making 
his  advances  by  besieging  her  capital),  which  Jason  accom- 
plished by  slaying  a  giant,  who  was  the  suitor's  champion.. 

On  his  return  home,  by  the  malevolence  of  his  uncle 
Peleus,  he  was  sent  on  the  Argonautic  expedition,  which 
his  enemies  believed  a  desperate  undertaking.  In  this  en- 
terprise he  was  accompanied  by  Hercules,  who  stopped  on 
the  voyage  to  predict  the  destruction  of  the  town  of  Lao- 
medon.  Hercules  had  rescued  this  j^rince's  daughter  from  a 
monster,  to  whom  she  had  nearly  fallen  a  prey  ;  but  when 
he  asked  her  in  marriage,  as  his  reward,  from  the  father,  he 
was  refused,  and  the  sarcastic  monarch  had  subjoined,  that 
it  was  not  worth  while  to  recover  his  daughter  from  the 
paws  of  one  monster  to  dehver  her  into  the  arms  of  another. 

The  fleet  afterwards  reached  Lemnos,  where  the  Grecian 
knights  were  received  in  the  same  manner  as  in  mytho- 
logy, and  were  long  remembered  by  the  fair  inhabitants  of 
that  island. 

After  the  arrival  of  the  expedition  at  Colchos,  the  love 
of  Medea,  and  the  conquest  of  the  Grolden  Fleece,  are  re- 
lated nearly  as  in  the  classical  fictions.  At  his  departure, 
Jason  carried  Medea  along  with  him  :  by  her  enchantments 
she  raised  a  storm,  while  passing  the  Isle  of  Lemnos,  and 
prevented  the  landing,  which  seems  to  have  been  intended. 
On  arriving  at  the  country  of  the  Myrmidons  she  was  well 
received  by  the  old  king,  whom,  by  the  most  potent  incan- 
tations, she  restored  to  youth  and  vigour,  so  that  he  be- 
came "  fort  enclin  a  chanter,  danser,  et  faire  toutes  choses 
joyeuses ;  et  qui  plus  est,  il  regardoit  moult  voulentiers  les 
belles  damoiselles."  The  sorceress  also  exhibited  great 
political   talents  in  the   depression   of  the  influence   of 


«CH.  VI.]  JASON    AND    MEDEA.  421 

Peleiis.  At  last,  protending  to  prepare  for  him  a  similar 
renovation  as  for  his  brother,  she  accomplished  his  death. 
His  daughters  having  complained  of  this  usage  to  the 
king,  he  sentenced  the  enchantress  to  banishment,  with 
the  concurrence  of  Jason,  who  previously  left  the  country, 
that  he  might  not  be  a  witness  to  her  disgrace.  Medea 
2)oured  forth  a  torrent  of  abuse  on  the  ingratitude  of  the 
king  for  the  services  she  had  rendered  him,  among  which 
she  considered  the  renovation  of  Peleus  as  the  chief.  She 
rejected  with  marked  contempt  the  vessel  he  offered,  to 
convey  her  from  his  states ;  and  with  a  stroke  of  her  ring 
secured  the  attendance  of  four  winged  dragons,  whose 
tails,  being  properly  interwoven,  formed  a  commodious 
chariot ;  then  taking  up  the  two  children  she  had  by  Jason, 
she  set  off  at  full  speed  in  this  unusual  conveyance,  in 
presence  of  King  Eson  and  his  astonished  Myrmidons.^ 

Long  the  fugitive  magician  soared  over  Greece  without 
discovering  any  trace  of  Jason,  for  whom  she  still  retained 
her  former  affection.  At  length,  while  hovering  over  the 
town  of  Corinth,  she  had  a  bird's-eye  view  of  pre2)arations 
for  a  great  festival.  On  her  descent  she  learned  that  these 
were  for  the  approaching  marriage  of  Jason  with  the  prin- 
cess of  Corinth.  Though  fired  with  jealousy,  she  sus23ended 
the  execution  of  her  vengeance  till  the  eve  of  the  nuptials. 
When  the  ceremony  was  at  length  about  to  commence,  she 
burst  from  a  thick  cloud,  which  opened  amid  thunder  and 
lightnmg,  and,  perching  on  the  spot  where  the  rites  were 
celebrating,  appeared  with  a  poniard  in  her  hand,  which 
she  plunged  into  the  bosoms  of  her  two  childi'en,  who  were 
along  with  her ;  while  the  dragons,  who  were  also  of  the 
party,  vomited  forth  flames,  which  consumed  Corinth  and 
all  its  inhabitants. 

Hitherto  Medea  has  made  a  formidable  appearance,  and 
has  been  as  ferox  invidaque,  as  Horace  could  have  desired 
her.  Towards  the  conclusion  of  the  romance,  however,  she 
acts  a  most  despicable  part.  She  inveigles  into  an  unsuitable 
marriage,  Egeus,  king  of  Athens,  who  was  then  in  his 
dotage  ;  but  she  was  aftei*^^ards  banished,  on  being  falsely 
suspected  of  an  attempt  to  poison  Prince  Theseus,  son  of 

'   Cf.  Ovid  Metam.  vii.  217,  etc. 


422  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI.. 

Egeus.  Thus  liumiliated,  she  again  set  out  on  her  wander- 
ings ;  and  as  Jason,  who  alone  had  escaped  from  the  late 
conflagration,  was  employed  in  a  similar  manner,  he  arrived 
one  day  at  the  verge  of  a  forest,  where  he  entered  a  hut  in 
which  Medea  had  sought  refuge.  Jason,  softened  by  the 
remembrance  of  former  affection  and  services,  proposed  a 
reconciliation.  Medea,  on  her  part,  agreed  to  abjure  magic, 
and  became  on  the  death  of  King  Eson,  which  happened 
soon  after,  tonne  et  douce  femme  et  reine. 

In  the  above  romance,  the  j^rincipal  amusement  arises 
from  the  curious  application  of  Gothic  manners  and  fictions 
to  classical  characters.  Yet  the  work  in  itself  is  not  alto- 
gether destitute  of  merit.  It  has  been  remarked  in  Mr. 
Dibdin's  "  Bibliotheca  Spenceriana,"  ^  "  that,  compared  with 
,many  other  tales  of  chivalry,  there  are  few  wearisome  epi- 
sodes and  few  digressions  in  the  romance  of  Jason.  The 
hero  is  generally  kept  in  view,  while  his  uniform  and  almost 
systematic  treachery  towards  ladies,  who  had  surrendered 
to  him  their  honour,  is  softened  down  in  a  manner  not 
studiously  or  obtrusively  disgusting.  The  general  senti- 
ments of  this  romance  are  completely  chivalrous,  and  the 
hardy  exploits  and  perilous  escapes  of  the  hero  are  varied 
by  numerous  little  touches  of  domestic  life  and  common- 
place adventure.  On  the  whole,  there  is  much  natural  and 
beautiful  colouring  in  this  performance." 

Raoul  le  Febre,  who  wrote  the  romance  of  Jason  and 
Medea,  is  also  the  author  of  that  of 

Heecules,- 

which,  as  he  informs  us  in  the  body  of  the  work,  was 
written  in  1463.  It  has  been  published  separately,  but 
originally  formed  part  of  the  more  extensive  composition, 
entitled  Recueil  d'Histoires  Troyennes.  Of  all  heroes  of 
antiquity,  the  Vagus  Hercules  bore  the  nearest  resemblance 
to  a  knight  errant ;  and  hence  his  adventures  must  have 
been  wonderfully  attractive  to  the  imagination  of  a  ro- 
mancer. His  story  commences  with  the  well-known  strata- 
gem of  King  Jove  and  his  squire  Mercury,  which  j^roduced 

'  Vol.  iv.  No.  840. 

^  La  Vie  du  preux  et  vaillant  Hercule. 


CH.  VI.]  HISTORY    OF    ALEXANDER.  423 

the  hero  of  the  romauce.  When  he  grows  iij^  liis  labours 
are  not  undergone  on  account  of  the  edict  of  Jupiter,  or  the 
wrath  of  Juno,  but  are  spontaneously  undertaken  to  render 
himself  deserving  of  a  Bceotian  princess,  of  whom  he  is 
enamoured.  The  detail  of  the  performance  of  his  labours 
has  received  a  colouring  consistent  with  the  origin  attri- 
buted to  them.  Pluto  is  a  king  who  resides  in  a  gloomy 
castle;  the  Fates  are  duennas,  who  watch  the  actions  of 
Proser]:)ine.  and  the  entrance  to  the  castle  is  guarded  by  the 
giant  Cerberus,  who,  according  to  this  enlightened  author, 
was  believed  a  dog  by  the  poets  and  the  vulgar.  A  con- 
siderable part  of  the  romance  is  occupied  with  the  conquest 
of  Spain  by  Hercules.  He  took  Merida  from  Geryou,  who 
was  feigned  to  have  three  heads,  because  he  was  originally 
lord  of  the  three  Balearic  Islands  ;  and  having  pursued  him 
from  place  to  place,  at  length  slew  him  near  the  foot  of  a 
castle,  which  was  thenceforth  called  Gerona. 

The  romance  of  Oedipus  was  written  about  the  same 
time  with  that  of  Hercules.  Of  his  story,  the  outline  is 
nearly  the  same  as  in  the  ancient  Greek  authors.  The 
Sj^hinx,  however,  is  a  giant  of  ferocious  courage,  and  of  a 
subtlety,  which,  in  books  of  chivalry,  is  very  rarely  coupled 
with  exuberant  dimensions. 

"We  have  already  seen  that  Alexander  the  Great  was  a 
leading  character  in  the  early  part  of  Perce-f  orest,  but  there 
is  a  work,  entitled  the 

History  of  Alexander,^ 

which  is  devoted  to  the  celebration  of  his  exploits.  The  Ma- 
cedonian hero  was  chiefly  indebted  for  romantic  embellish- 
ment to  a  fabulous  life  of  him,  which  appeared  in  Greek 

^  Lhystoire  du  noble  et  vaillant  roy  Alexandre  le  Grand  Nouuelle- 
ment  iniprime  a  Paris  par  Michel  le  Xoir.  26  Septembre,  1506. 
The  paternity  of  the  work  is,  however,  doubtful.  The  Greek  text  was 
publ-shed  in  the  Bibliotheque  des  Auteurs  gi'ocs,  Paris,  1846,  by  C. 
Miiller,  who,  with  Graesse,  considers  the  work  was  probably  written  at 
Alexandria,  under  the  first  Ptolemies.  From  the  Greeks  this  romance 
passed  also  to  the  Bulgarians,  and  three  different  versions  of  the  story 
are  found  to  exist  in  early  Slavonic  literature.  The  Greek  source  of 
the  Servian  recension  of  Alexander  was  evidently  not  based  immediately 
through  a  Greco-Byzantine  medium  upon  any  text  of  the  pseudo  Callis- 
thenes.     In  its  first  form  at  Alexandria,  the  legend,  as  we  can  conceive 


424  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

about  the  middle  of  the  eleventh  century,  and  which  passed 
under  the  name  of  Callisthenes,  who  was  a  contemj^orary  of 
Alexander.     This    spurious   work,  which  has  often  been 

it  from  the  oldest  extant  Greek  text  and  the  earliest  versions,  is  evidently 
designed  to  connect  Alexander  with  Egypt,  to  make  of  him  an  Egyptian 
national  hero  in  affiliating  him  to  the  royal  house.  It  may  be  doubted 
whether  the  essential  idea  of  the  Greek  romance  is  really  of  popular 
origin  :  here,  as  in  numerous  instances,  the  legend  is  perhaps  merely  an 
•'  invention  personnelle,"  a  fiction  inspired  by  personal  interests  or 
sympathies,  which  has  by  degrees  lapsed  into  the  current  of  popular 
tradition.  The  Egyptian  story  subsequently  meets  acceptance  and 
favour  at  Constantinople  and  soon  afterwards  in  the  East  and  in  the 
West,  not  owing  to  its  pristine  idea  (the  Egyptian  origin  of  its  hero),  but 
by  reason  of  the  accounts  of  prodigies  which  it  offers  in  such  abundance, 
and  which  were  so  adapted  to  the  taste  of  readers  whose  judgment  and 
literary  perceptions  were  constantly  declining.  Introduced  into  the 
West  by  the  translation  of  Julius  Valerius,  by  the  Latin  letter  to 
Aristotle,  and  at  a  later  date  by  the  Historia  de  prjeliis,  of  Leo,  the 
fabulous  narrative  of  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes,  obtained  an  unprecedented 
success  throughout  the  Latin  world.  There  can  scarcely  be  fewer  than 
one  hundred  manuscripts  extant  of  the  above  letter  and  the  Epitome  of 
Valerius,  and  after  researches  far  from  complete  I  am  able  to  einmierate 
more  than  sixty  copies  of  the  Historia  de  praeliis.  This  extraordinary 
popularity  is  not  explained  alone  by  the  liking  for  the  wonderful :  there 
is  no  doubt  that  in  the  West  the  narrative  was  regarded  as  genuine  his- 
tory, and  one  can  account  for  its  embodiment  in  bona  fide  historical  com- 
pilations of  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries  upon  this  supposition. 
....  The  fabulous  history  of  Alexander  was  then  widely  diffused 
among  the  clerks  when  the  vernacular  poets  undertook  the  task  of  bring- 
ing it  to  the  ken  of  the  numerous  class  who  were  ignorant  of  Latin.  It 
was  about  1150,  or  earlier  in  the  century,  that  a  romance  poet,  who 
appears  to  have  been  a  native  of  the  south-east  of  France,  introduced 

the  legend  in  a  brilliant  manner  into  the  vulgar  literature Of 

this  poem  only  the  first  hundred  and  five  verses  are  known  (preserved  in 
the  Laurentian  Library  at  Florence).  The  fragment,  however,  is  of 
great  importance,  for  it  is  seeminglj^  the  first  Romance  poem  on  a  theme 
borrowed  from  antiquity,  and  the  earliest  of  a  numerous  series  of  fictions 
based  on  classical  history  or  mythology.  This  first  poem  of  Alberich, 
or  Elberich,  of  Bizenum  (?  Alberic  de  Brian9on  ou  Pisangon),  was  soon 
imitated  by  Lamprecht  in  Germany,  and  renewed  in  France  in  deca- 
syllabic verse.  It  is  interesting  to  consider  how  Alberic  and  his  imitators 
dealt  with  a  subject  so  new  and  containing  so  much  that  was  unintelligible 
or  even  obnoxious  to  a  public  of  the  twelfth  century.  His  process  has 
been  to  modify  the  hero  profoundly,  so  as  to  render  him  acceptable  to 
his  auditors.  The  figment  of  the  hero  being  the  son  of  an  Egyptian 
king  versed  in  magic  arts,  would  be  repugnant  to  a  mediaeval  public,  nor 
would  it  be  comprehensible  that  a  personage  proposed  to  admiration 
should  be  a  bastard,  accordingly  Alberic  denies  that  Alexander  is  the 
son  of  an  enchanter,  makes  him  legitimate,  and  presents  him  as  a  type 


CH.  YI.]  HISTORY    OF    ALEXANDER.  425 

attributed  to  Simeon  Setli,  keei)er  of  a  palace  of  Constan- 
tinople, and  was  in  a  great  measure  translated  from  Persic 
traditions,  an  origin  which  accounts  for  the  fables  that 
have  crept  into  it.  Eastern  romances,  particularly  the 
Persian,  are  full  of  incredible  fictions  concerning  Alexander, 
or  Iskender,  as  he  is  called.'  In  one  of  these,  by  Mahmed 
el  Kermanni,  Alexander,  while  prosecuting  his  conquests 

of  the  veritable  knightly  king  of  the  jNIiddle  Ages.  [I  must  note,  how- 
over,  that  many  of  the  heroes  of  mediivval  fiction  are  bastards — Merlin, 
Arthur,  the  Galaad  of  the  later  romances,  Ysaie  le  triste,  Holland, 
Amadis,  even  the  House  of  Capet  derives  its  origin  from  the  illicit  com- 
merce of  Huon  of  Bordeaux  and  Esdarmonde. — H.  W.].  The  same 
process  of  adaptation  is  perceptible  in  the  decasyllabic  poem.  The  poem 
in  Alexandrine  vei-se,  evidently  the  work  of  several  hands,  which  I  have 
<»ndeavoured  to  distinguish,  is  a  free  remaniement  of  the  decasyllabic 
poem  with  certain  innovations.  The  "  Koman  de  toute  Chevalerie  "  of 
Eustache  (or  Thomas)  of  Kent,  and  the  prose  romances,  are  only  more 
or  less  servile  reproductions  of  the  antecedent  poems  or  the  Latin  narra- 
tives, designed  to  satisfy  a  curiosity  which  may  be  called  historical  in  as 
much  as  the  public  for  which  they  were  intended  believed  to  a  certain 
extent  in  the  reality  of  the  events  recited.  The  originality  of  these 
romantic  fictions,  concludes  ^I.  Meyer,  is  to  be  found,  not  in  the  marvel- 
lous scenes  and  incidents,  which  have  been  rather  modified  and  sobered 
than  invented  or  heightened,  but  in  the  transformation  of  the  hero.  The 
i:Mipular  masses  which  bestow  renown  cannot  conceive  the  variety  of 
elements  which  go  to  constitute  greatness.  They  have  only  one  ideal  at 
a  time,  and  this  they  often  change,  and  the  hero  can  only  occupy  their 
imagination  by  frequent  changes  of  aspect. — The  proceeding  remarks 
are  freely  condensed  from  the  avant-propos  (published  in  the  Romania, 
18S5,  pp.  621-62y),  to  M.  Paul  Meyer's  new  work  on  the  Legende 
d'Alexandre,whichI  have  not  been  able  to  see  before  sending  this  to  press. 
^  See  H.  Vogelstein,  Annotationes  quaedam  ex  litteris  orientalibus 
petitae  ad  fabulas  quae  de  Alexandro  Magno  circumferuntur,  etc.,  1865, 
and  E.  Talbot,  Essai  sur  la  le'gende  d* Alexandre  le  grand  dans  les 
Komans  franfais  du  xii«  siecle,  1850.  A  romantic  history  of  Alexander, 
in  twenty-four  books,  was  written  by  the  poet  Arrian,  and  entitled 
Alessandreis.  According  to  Apuleius,  Clement,  who  flourished  under 
Antoninus  Pius,  and  one  Nestor,  who  lived  in  the  reign  of  Severus,  wrote 
Greek  poems  on  the  subject.  Douce,  in  a  valuable  note  in  the  third 
volume  of  Ellis,  p.  300,  has  enumerated  not  less  than  eleven  French 
poets  who  have  chosen  this  subject,  and  several  might  be  added  to  the 
list.  The  great  romance  of  Alexander  was  composed  about  1200.  One 
of  the  most  splendid  copies  is  preserved  in  tlie  Bodleian  Library';  it 
contains  about  20,000  lines,  and  it  is  a  free  translation  from  the  French. 
Liebrecht  notes  the  following  passage  in  Kichter's  ''  Keisen  zu  Wasser 
und  zu  Lande.''  etc.  Dresden,  18:^1.  "The  King  of  the  Trarsas  (a 
Moorish  tribe  in  Senegal)  is  alleged  to  be  a  descendant  of  Alichandoras, 
one  of  their  most  famous  heroes  of  former  times."     Bd.  iii.  p.  182. 


426  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI, 

on  the  frontiers  of  China,  encounters  a  monstrous  dragon 
which  had  ravaged  a  whole  kingdom  ;  and  in  an  island  of 
the  Indian  Ocean  he  sees  men  with  wings,  &c.  The  work, 
compiled  from  such  materials,  and  filled  with  arbitrary 
fictions  concerning  Alexander,  was  early  communicated  to 
the  west  of  Europe  by  means  of  a  Latin  version  by  Julius 
Valerius,  which  became  the  foundation  of  various  metrical 
romances.  Of  these  one  of  the  most  widely  known  was 
written  in  1184,  by  Lambert  li  Cors,  or  le  Tort,  with  the 
assistance  of  Alexander  of  Paris  ;  a  production  which  has 
given  rise  to  the  name  of  those  lines  called  Alexandrian, 
from  a  false  idea  that  it  was  the  first  poem  in  which  that 
measure  was  employed.  Thomas  of  Kent  is  the  author  of 
another  metrical  romance  on  the  subject  of  Alexander, 
which,  he  says,  is  taken  from  the  Latin,  meaning  probably 
the  translation  from  the  Greek  text  attributed  to  Simeon 
Seth.  The  incidents  in  the  prose  romance  of  Alexander 
have  been  compiled  mainly  from  these  two  metrical  works. 
Its  author  has  chiefly  availed  himself  of  the  poem  of 
Lambert  li  Cors  ;  but  he  has  been  indebted  to  the  composi- 
tion of  Thomas  of  Kent  for  the  whole  story  of  Olympia  and 
Nectanebus,  which  does  not  occur  in  the  former  production. 
The  date  of  the  prose  Alexander  is  nearly  the  same 
with  that  of  the  above-mentioned  romances  of  Hercules 
and  Jason,  and  it  was  printed  towards  the  close  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  It  is  not  till  the  ancient  history  of 
Macedon  has  been  detailed,  that  the  author  gives  the 
following  account  of  the  birth  of  his  hero.  Nectanebus, 
who  was  an  Egyptian  king,  and  a  great  necromancer, 
dreading  an  attack  from  the  king  of  Persia,  magnanimously 
embarked  for  Grreece,  in  the  disguise  of  a  priest  of  Jupiter 
Ammon.  Adorned  with  the  symbols  of  that  divinity,  he 
visited  Olympia,,  queen  of  Macedon,  who,  in  the  absence 
of  her  husband,  was  then  residing  in  a  remote  castle,  and 
he  soon  after  became  the  father  of  Alexander.  On  the 
return  of  Philip,  who  had  been  long  from  home,  the  queen 
attributed  her  suspicious  pregnancy  to  the  intervention  of 
Jupiter  himself.  In  confirmation  of  this,  Nectanebus 
afterwards  by  his  art  introduced  at  court  a  voluminous, 
but  docile  dragon,  who  saluted  the  king,  and,  so  far  from 
feeling  abashed  at  the  presence  of  the  courtiers,  caressed 


CH.  YI.]  HISTORY    OF    ALEXANDER.  427 

her  majesty  to  the  infinite  astonishment  of  PhiHp  and  the 
Macedonians.  Neetanebus  also  insinuated  himself  into  the 
favour  of  Philip,  and  when  Alexander  grew  up  was 
ap2)ointed  his  preceptor.  That  prince,  as  h6  advanced  in 
Years,  displayed  much  e^reatness  of  mind;  but  he  was 
diminutive  in  person,  and  his  head  leaned  to  one  side,  like 
that  of  Neetanebus.  Hence  the  courtiers  were  wont  to 
remark,  that  in  form  he  much  resembled  the  priest  of 
Jupiter,  but  that  his  soul  came  from  Jupiter  himself.  The 
amour  of  Neetanebus  with  Olympia  has  been  introduced 
by  Gower  into  the  sixth  book  of  his  Confessio  Amantis,  as 
it  is  related  in  the  romance. 

After  the  death  of  his  father,  Alexander,  previous  to  the 
conquest  of  Persia,  embarked  for  Italy,  subdued  Eome^ 
and  received  tribute  from  all  the  European  nations.  The 
account  of  his  Persian  exj^edition  is  somewhat  consistent 
with  history,  but  the  most  incredible  wonders  are  added  to 
his  Indian  conquests.  Thus  Alexander  came  among  a 
nation  who  placed  their  delight  in  eating  human  flesh,  and 
made  war  solely  for  the  purpose  of  replenishing  their 
garde-manger.  IIa\T[ng  jousted  with  Porus  ^  for  his  king- 
dom, and  overthrown  him,  he  found  in  the  palace  of  the 
vanquished  monarch  immense  treasures,  and  among  other 
wonders  a  vine,  of  which  the  branches  were  gold,  the  leaves 
emeralds,  and  the  fruit  other  precious  stones  ;  a  fiction 
which  seems  to  have  been  suggested  by  the  golden  vine 
which  Pompey  carried  away  from  Jerusalem.'    One  chapter 

^  For  a  disquisition  on  this  name,  which  the  writer  would  connect 
with  the  French  plirase  vengtr  Forri  niort  Fourt,  etc.,  see  Alex. 
Vesselovsky,  Iz  Istorii,  etc,  pp.  .381,  etc. 

^  Fompey  received  this  vine  from  Aristobulus,  the  son  of  Alexander 
Jannaus,  who  had  procured  it  for  a  present,  and  brought  it  to  Rome, 
where  he  deposited  it  in  the  temple  of  Jupiter  Capitolinus.  There  was, 
however,  another  golden  vine  at  Jerusalem,  over  the  gate  of  the  temple, 
which  weighed  1,000  talents.  This  was  made  by  Hei'od's  command. 
See  the  Elucidator  of  Tacitus,  v.  5.  A  similar  vine  occurs  in  the 
romance  of  Ysaie  le  Triste  (p.  220),  and  in  Iluon  of  Bordeaux.  It  is 
also  narrated  of  the  Chinese  prince  Jung- Hwang  (c.  900,  a.d)  that  he 
caused  to  be  made  a  lotus  plant  six  ells  in  length,  and  composed  of  gold 
and  jewels.  See  also  Gervase  Tilbur,  Ot.  Imp.  iii.  78.  Grimm. 
Kindermarchen,  Nos.  130  and  133.  Hylten-Cavallius  and  Stephen's 
"  Svenska  Foik-Sagor,'"  i.  164. — Liebkecht.  See  also,  infra,  iJc- 
cameron,  x.  5. 


428  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

in  this  part  of  tlie  work  bears  tlie  following  title,  **  Com- 
ment Alexandre  trouva  femmes  qui  tant  font  gesir  les 
liommes  avec  elles  que  Tame  leur  part  du  corps."  In  a 
neighbouring  district  he  beheld  women,  who,  after  being 
interred  during  winter,  sprung  to  life  on  the  approach  of 
summer,  with  renovated  grace  and  beauty ;  or,  as  it  is 
prettily  expressed  in  the  metrical  romance  of  Lambert  li 
•Cors,  [ed.  Michelant,  p.  346]  : 

Quant  Teste  revdent,  et  le  beau  temps  s'espure, 
En  guise  de  fleur  blanche  reviennent  a  nature. 

Finally,  having  reached  the  extremity  of  the  world,  having 
received  homage  from  all  nations  who  inhabit  its  surface, 
and  being  assured  that  there  remained  nothing  more  to 
conquer,  Alexander  formed  the  inconsiderate  project  of 
becoming  sovereign  of  the  air  and  deep.  By  the  conjura- 
tions of  the  eastern  professors  of  magic,  whom  he  con- 
sulted, he  was  furnished  with  a  glass  cage  of  enormous 
dimensions,  yoked  with  eight  griffins  well  matched.  Having 
seated  himself  in  this  conveyance,  he  posted  through  the 
empire  of  the  air,  accompanied  by  magicians,  who  under- 
stood the  language  of  birds,  and  asked  the  most  intelli- 
gent natives  the  jDroper  questions  concerning  their  laws, 
manners,  and  customs,  while  Alexander  received  their 
voluntary  submissions.  This  aerial  journey,  like  most  of 
the  fictions  concerning  Alexander,  is  of  eastern  origin.  An 
old  Arabian  writer,  in  a  book  called  Malem,  informs  us 
that  Nimrod  being  frustrated  in  his  attempt  to  build  the 
tower  of  Babel,  insisted  on  being  carried  through  the  air 
in  a  cage  borne  by  four  monstrous  birds  (D'Herbelot,  Bib. 
Orient.,  Nhnrod).  The  notion  of  comprehending  the  lan- 
guage of  birds  is  also  oriental.  This  faculty  was  attributed 
by  the  eastern  nations  to  Solomon,  who,  when  he  travelled 
on  his  magic  carpet,  with  his  soldiers  on  his  right  hand, 
and  on  the  left  the  genii,  was  always  attended  by  flights 
of  birds,  which  sheltered  his  army  from  the  sun.^  The 
idea,  however,  seems  to  have  passed  at  an  eai'ly  period 
into  Europe ;  G-erbert,  or  Sylvester  II.,  is  said  to  have 
acquired  it  while  at  Seville,  from  the  Moors,  and  in  an  old 
Scandinavian  romance,  Sigurd  attains  this  accomplishment 

1   Sale's  "Koran,"  on  e.  27,  v.  20.     Cf.  also  Weil,  The  Bible,  the 
Koran,  etc. 


CH.  VI.]  HISTORY    OP    ALEXANDER.  429* 

by  Slipping?  broth  made  of  the  flesh  of  dragons.^  Sigurd 
having  slain  the  dragon  Fafnir  is  charged  by  Regin  to 
superintend  the  roasting  of  the  monster's  heart,  which 
Regin,  aware  of  its  virtues,  purposed  to  eat.  Sigurd  acci- 
dentally touches  the  heart  and  then  puts  his  finger  in  his 
mouth,  whereby  he  instantly  acquires  a  knowledge  of  the 
language  of  birds,  by  whose  advice  he  kills  Regin  and  eats 
the  heart  himself. 

It  is  impossible  to  conjecture  how  high  Alexander  might 
liave  mounted,  or  what  important  information  he  might 
have  derived  from  the  birds,  had  he  not  been  compelled  to 
descend  from  the  clouds  by  the  intolerable  heat  of  these 
upper  regions.  On  his  return  from  this  aerial  excursion,, 
he  resolved  to  cool  himself,  and  to  ascertain  how  the  great 
fish  behaved  to  the  little  ones,  by  descending  to  the  bottom 
of  the  deep  in  a  species  of  diving-bell.  The  fish,  as  he 
expected,  crowded  round  the  machine,  and  paid  him  their 
humblest  homage.  It  is  remarkable  that  a  similar  story 
is  mentioned  by  one  of  the  old  Welsh  bards  (Da^des' 
"  Celtic  Researches,"  p.  196),  and  Mr.  Southey,  in  his 
notes  to  Madoc,  says,  that  it  was  pointed  out  to  him  by 
Mr.  Coleridge,  in  one  of  the  most  ancient  G-erman  poems."^ 

^  i.e.,  Fafner's  heart's  blood :  v.  Fafnis-mal  in  the  Edda.— Grimm 
Deutsche  Heldensage,  p.  75.  In  the  Welsh  tale  Guion  (or  Fionn,  after- 
wards Taliesin),  was  left  in  charge  of  the  cauldron  of  Ceridwen.  Three 
drops  of  the  charmed  liquor  flew  out  of  the  cauldron,  and  fell  upon 
Guion's  finger.  "  And  by  reason  of  their  great  heat,  he  put  his  finger 
to  his  mouth,  and  the  instant  he  put  those  marvel-working  drops  into 
his  mouth,  he  foresaw  everything  that  was  to  come,  and  perceived  that 
his  chief  care  was  to  guard  against  the  wiles  of  Ceridwen."'  The  Irish 
story  runs  thus  : — Fionn,  being  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Boyne,  met 
with  some  fishermen  who  had  been  sent  by  his  enemies  to  take  the 
"  Salmon  of  Foreknowledge."  The  fishermen  took  a  salmon  of  great 
size  and  beauty,  which  they  placed  at  the  fire  to  broil,  leaving  it  in 
charge  of  Fionn,  who  was  to  take  care  that  it  did  not  burn,  on  pain  of 
losing  his  head.  During  the  process  of  cooking,  a  spark  flew  from  the 
fire,  which  raised  a  blister  on  the  fish.  Fionn  applied  his  thumb  to  the 
scorched  part,  in  order  to  force  down  the  blister,  but  the  heat  burning 
his  thumb,  he  thrust  it  into  his  mouth  to  relieve  the  pain.  No  sooner 
had  he  done  so  than  he  became  gifted  with  prophecy  and  foreknowledge, 
etc.  See  in  Trans,  of  Ussianic  Society  for  1854,  the  "  Feis  Tighe  Conan 
Ceann  Shleibhe." — Nash,  D.  W.,  Taliesin,  1858,  pp.  324-5,  Merlin 
acquired  the  power  of  divination  by  swallowing  the  heart  of  a  freshly- 
killed  mole. 

^  The  Annolied,  vv.  206,  etc. 


430  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

When  Alexander  had  received  the  obeisance  of  the  fish, 
he  returned  to  Babylon,  where  he  was  crowned  with  due 
pomp,  and  mass  was  performed  with  proper  solemnity. 
Soon  after  his  coronation  he  was  treacherously  poisoned, 
an  event  which  had  been  presaged  by  the  salamanders,  of 
which  he  had  found  a  large  supply  in  the  menagerie  of  the 
kings  of  Persia,  and  had  always  kept  good  fires  for  their 
subsistence  and  entertainment.  As  an  acknowledgment 
for  this  hospitality  they  foretold  his  death,  but  their  pre- 
diction did  not  meet  from  him  the  attention  which  it 
merited.^ 

The  Cyclus  of  romances  relating  to  classical  heroes,  of 
which  I  have  now  enumerated  the  most  important,  are 
perhaps   chiefly   interesting,  as  having    supplied   copious 

^  The  following  contributions  to  the  subject  of  the  Alexander  legend 
may  be  enumerated:  Christensen,  Beitrage  zur  Alexandersage,  1883. 
J.  Zacher,  Pseudo-Callisthenes  :  Forschungen  zur  Kritik  und  Geschichte 
<ler  aeltesten  Aufzeichnung  der  Alexandersage,  Halle,  1867.  Kapp, 
^littheilungen  aus  zwei  griechischen  Handschriften  als  Beitrag  zur 
(.it'schichte  der  Alexandersage  im  Mittelalter,  Wien,  1872  ;  Etudes  sur 
les  iTianuscrits  du  Roman  d'Alexandre,  Romania,  No.  42-3,  pp.  213-332. 
J.  Zacher,  Alexandri  Magni  Iter  ab  Faradisum,  Eegiomonti,  1859. 
Kinzel,  Zwei  Recensionem  der  Vita  Alexandri  Magni  interprete  Leone 
archipresbytero  Neapolitano,  Berlin,  1884  ;  Woolsey,  Notice  of  a  Life 
of  Alexander  the  Great,  translated  from  the  Syriac  by  Rev.  Dr.  J.  Fer- 
kins ;  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  vol.  iv.,  1854  ;  Donath, 
Die  Alexandersage  im  Talmud  und  Midrasch,  Fulda,  1878  ;  Israel  Levi, 
La  Legende  d'Alexandre  dans  le  Talmud,  et  le  Midi-asch,  Revue  des 
Etudes  Juives,  No.  13,  Juillet,  Sept.  1883 ;  O.  Zingerle,  Die  Quellen  zum 
Alexander  des  Rudolf  von  Ems  ;  Historia  de  preliis,  Breslau,  1885  ; 
G.  Landgraf,  Vita  Alexandri  Magni  des  Archi-presbyters  Leo  (Hist,  de 
preliis),  Erlangen,  1885  ;  Favre,  Recherches  sur  les  histoires  fabuleuses 
d'Alexandre  le  Gi'and,  in  Melanges,  d'histoire  litLeraire,  ii.,  Comte  C.  de 
Villedeuil,  Legende  d'Alexandre,  etc.,  1853.  There  are  also  some  erudite 
contributions  to  the  subject  in  Frofessor  Alexander  Vesselovsky's  "  Iz 
Istorii  Romana  i  Foviesti ;  Materialy  i  Izslyedovania;  Vuipousk  pervii; 
Greko-Vizantiiskii  period," St.  Petersburg,  1886  ;  also  Meissner,  Bildliche 
Darstellungen  der  Alexandersage,  in  Kirchen  des  Mittelalters,  in  "  Archiv 
fiir  das  Studium  der  neueren  Sprachen,"  Bd.  68,  1882 ;  Kuno  Meyer, 
Irische  Version  der  Alexandersage  (Leipzig,  1884) ;  Michelant,  Li 
Romanz  d'Alixandre  (being  vol.  13  of  the  Bibliothek  of  the  Stuttgard 
Literarischer  Verein,  1843  ;  W.  Wagner,  Trois  Foemes  grecs  dumoyen- 
age  inedits,  Berlin,  1881 ;  Stern,  Zur  Alexandersage,  Wien,  1861 ;  the 
Irish  Alexandersaga,  ed.  by  K.  Meyer  from  the  Lebar  Brecc  in  the 
Irische  Texte.  2,  herausgeg.  (with  translation)  von  W.  Stokes  and  E. 
Windisch,  Leipzig,  1880,  etc.,  2288  f. 


CH.  VI.]  VIRGIL    THE    ENCHANTER.  431 

materials  to  our  English  poets  of  the  earliest  school. 
Adam  Davies'  "  Lyfe  of  Alexander  "  is  derived  from  the 
metrical  romances  on  that  prince's  exploits  ;  Lydgate's 
"  Troy  Book  "  is  almost  a  paraphrase  of  the  chronicle  of 
Oolonna,  and  many  of  the  stories  introduced  by  Gower  in 
his  Confessio  Amantis  may  be  traced  to  the  same  origin. 
Such  spurious  chronicles,  and  the  romances  founded  on 
them,  were  the  primary  source  of  all  those  metrical  com- 
]>ositions  enumerated  in  the  Cursor  Mundi  [see  Warton, 
Hist.  Eng.  Poet.,  1824,  I.,  p.  127]  : 

Of  Julius  Caesar  the  empcrour, 
Of  Alexander  the  conquerour. 
Of  Greece  and  Troy,  the  strong  stryf 
Where  many  a  man  lost  his  lyf. 

It  "vvas  to  be  exi:»ected  that  the  age  which  exhibited  the 
heroes  of  Greece  as  knights  errant,  should  represent  the 
poets  and  sages  of  antiquity  as  necromancers  and  wizards. 
Of  all  distinguished  characters,  Virgil  seems  to  have  fallen 
most  strongly  under  this  suspicion,  and  the  story  of  his 
amours  and  incantations  has  formed  the  subject  of  a  very 
curious  romance  of  chivalry  and  magic.  It  has  been 
doubted  whether  the  sorcerer  VergiHus  was  the  same  with 
the  Eoman  poet ;  but  it  ajDpears  from  the  authors  of  the 
fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries,  that  such  at  least  was 
the  prevailing  opinion  in  the  dark  ages.  Tliis  receives 
confirmation  from  the  necromancer's  connection  with 
Naples,  and  the  castle  which  he  is  said  to  have  possessed 
in  the  suburbs  of  Eome.  In  the  commencement,  too,  of 
the  romance,  Yergilius  is  unjustly  deprived  of  his  inheri- 
tance, wherein  he  is  afterwards  reinstated  by  favour  of 
the  emperor,  which  seems  to  identify  him  with  that  poet, 
who,  under  the  character  of  Tityrus,  has  acknowledged  his 
restoration  by  Augustus  to  the  lands  from  which  he  had 
been  driven,  in  such  pathetic  bursts  of  gratitude. 

Virgil  the  Enchanter. 

How  Virgil  acquired  the  character  of  an  adept  in  magic, 
fonns  a  curious  subject  of  inquiry.  Naudaeus,  in  his 
Apologie  pour  tous  les  grands  personnages,  qui  ont  ete 
faussement  soupconnes  de  Magie  (ch.  21),  conceives  that  the 


432  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI, 

absurd  opinions  entertained  concerning  Virgil,  originated 
in  the  Pliarmaceutria  of  his  eighth  eclogue,  where  he  hath 
so  learnedly  discussed  whatever  relates  to  magic — the 
Vittas  molles — verbenas  pingues — thura  mascula,  and 

Carmina  quae  coelo  possunt  deducere  Lunam.^ 

This  belief  in  the  magical  powers  of  Virgil  may  have 
received  confirmation  from  the  sixth  book  of  the  ^neid,  in 
which  the  secrets  of  the  world  unknown  are  so  mysteriously 
revealed: — 

Dii,  quibus  imperium  est  animarum,  Umbraeciue  silentes ; 

Et  Chaos,  et  Phlegethon,  loca  nocte  silentia  late, 

Sit  mihi  fas  audita  loqui ;  sit  numine  vestro 

Pandere  res  alia  terra  et  caligine  mersas.— -^n.  vi.,  264,  etc. 

In  addition  to  this,  nothing  more  readily  conferred  the 
character  of  a  magician  than  a  knowledge  of  mathematics, 
a  science  in  which  Virgil  is  said  to  have  made  considerable 
proficiency.  The  report  besides,  whether  true  or  false,  that 
Virgil  had  ordered  his  books  to  be  burnt,  may  have  created 
the  suspicion,  that  in  these  he  had  disclosed  the  mysteries 
of  the  black  art,  especially  as  he  lived  during  the  reign  | 
of  an  emperor  who  ordered  all  magical  works  to  be 
destroyed." 

In  whatever  way  it  may  have  originated,  the  belief  in 
the  magic  powers  of  Virgil  appears  to  have  prevailed  as 
soon  as  mankind  lost  the  refinement  of  taste,  which  enabled 
them  to  appreciate  his  exquisite  productions.     It  may  be ' 
fairly  conjectured,  that  the  notion  of  several  of  the  necro- 
mantic operations,  attributed  to  Virgil,  was  derived  from 
the  east.    The  leading  incident  in  this  romance,  of  Vergilius 
releasing  the  fiend  from  his  state  of  confinement,  and  subse- 
quently cheating  him  into  a  return  to  his  prison,  is  familiar  : 
to  us  from  its  similarity  to  the  tale,  in  the  11th  and  fol-  i 
lowing  nights  of  the  Arabian  Nights'  Entertainments,  of  ' 
the  Fisherman  and  Grenie,  which  is  said  to  be  still  a  j^reva- 

^  Bucol,  Eel.  viii.  v.  69.  It  was  a  common  belief  in  antiquity  that 
magicians,  especially  Thessalian  magicians,  could  bring  down  the  moon. 

2  Horace  is  said  to  be  reputed  a  benevolent  magician  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Palestrina.  See  Warton's  "  History  of  Poetry,"  ed.  1824^ 
2,  62,  note.  Cf.  Apuleius,  ed.  Oud.  p.  459,  v.  d.  Hagen,  Gesammtabent^ 
iii.  p.  exxxi. 


CH.  VI.]  VIRGIL    THE    ENCHANTER.  433 

lent  eastern  suix'rstition.'  Virgil's  intrigue  with  the  sol- 
dan's  daughter  also  resembles  many  of  the  adventures 
introduced  in  oriental  romance,  and  the  tales  of  chivalry 
derived  from  the  east. 

The  fictions  concerning  the  magic  powers  of  Virgil  were 
first  incorporated  about  the  beginning  of  the  thirteenth 
century,  in  the  Otia  Imperialia  of  Gervase  of  Tilbury, 
chancellor  of  the  Emperor  Otho  IV.,  to  whom  he  presented 
his  extravagant  compilation.  In  this  work,  which  is 
fraught  with  incredible  fables  of  every  description,  we  are 
told  that  the  wise  Virgil  set  up  a  brazen  fly  on  one  of  the 
gates  of  Naples,  which  remained  there  for  eight  years,  and 
during  that  period  permitted  no  other  fly  to  enter  the 
city.  On  another  gate  he  placed  two  immense  images  of 
stone ;  one  of  which  was  said  to  be  handsome  and  merry, 
and  its  fellow  sad  and  deformed.  These  images  possessed 
this  magic  influence,  that  if  any  j^erson  entering  the  city 
came  near  the  former  statue,  everything  prospered  accord- 
ing to  his  desires,  as  he  who  approached  the  latter  was 
ine^dtably  unfortunate  and  disappointed.  Virgil  also  made 
a  pubUc  fire,  whereat  everyone  might  freely  warm  him- 
self, and  near  it  he  placed  a  brazen  archer,  with  bow  and 
arrows,  bearing  the  inscription, — "  If  anyone  strike  I  will 
shoot  off  my  arrow  :  "  this  at  length  happened  when  a 
certain  fool  striking  the  archer,  he  shot  him  with  his 
arrow,  and  sent  him  into  the  fire,  which  was  forthwith  ex- 
tinguished. G-ervase  also  informs  us,  that  having  visited 
Naples,  he  was  himself  witness  to  many  of  these  wonders 
which  yet  remained,  and  was  informed  concerning  the 
others  by  his  host,  the  Archdeacon  Pinatellus,  by  whom  he 
was  entertained  in  that  city. 

These  fables  were  transcribed  by  Helinandus,  the  monk, 
who  was  contemporary  with  Gervase,  into  his  Universal 
Chronicle,^  and  were  also  introduced  by  Alexander  Neckam, 
an  English  Benedictine,  who  studied  at  Paris  early  in  the 
thirteenth   century,  into    his    work,  De    Naturis   Eerum, 

^  There  is  a  somewhat  similar  Andahisian  legend,  which  may  have 
a  Moorish  origin.  A  version  of  the  story  will  be  found  in  Tales  from 
Twelve  Tongues,  London,  1883.  Cf.  also  the  opening  of  Le  Sage's 
'•  Diable  Ik)iteux." 

'  See  Vincentius  Bcllovacensis,  Speculum  Historiale,  1.  vi.  c.  61. 

I.  F  F 


434  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [cH.  VI. 

(book  6,)  with  many  important  additions.  In  particular, 
we  are  told  that  Virgil  constructed  a  brazen  bridge,  which 
carried  him  wherever  he  pleased,  and  also  that  he  formed 
those  statues,  which  were  called  Preservers  of  Rome  (Sal- 
vatio  Romae) ;  for  as  soon  as  any  country  revolted,  or  took 
up  arms  against  the  empire,  the  image  representing  that 
nation  rung  a  bell  which  himg  around  its  neck,  and  pointed 
to  the  inscribed  name  of  the  rebellious  state.  Similar 
fables  concerning  Virgil  have  been  mentioned  by  Para- 
celsus [2,  e569,  Strasburg,  1603],  and  Grower  in  his  Con- 
fessio  Amantis  [bk.  v.],  while  the  stories  of  the  public  fire, 
and  the  statues,  preservers  of  Rome,  have  been  related  at 
full  length  in  the  Seven  Wise  Masters.^ 

Such  works  supplied  ample  materials  for  the  old  French 
romance  of  Vergilius,  of  which  there  are  two  editions 
extant,  one  in  4to.,  the  other  8vo.,  both  j)rinted  at  Paris, 
and  both  without  date.  That  production  was  the  basis  of 
the  English  Lyfe  of  Virgilius,  which,  however,  varies  in 
some  particulars  from  its  original. 

In  the  commencement  of  this  work,  Virgilius  is  repre- 
sented as  living  under  the  Emperor  Persydes,  who  appears, 
according  to  the  chronology  of  the  romance,  to  have 
reigned  soon  after  the  time  of  Romulus.  Virgilius  being 
wise  and  subtle  in  his  youth,  was  placed  at  school,  but 
while  there  he  received  more  instruction  in  consequence  of 
a  holiday  adventure,  than  he  derived  from  all  the  lessons 
of  his  teachers.  While  roaming  among  the  hills  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  Tolentum,*  he  perceived  and  entered  a 
deep  hole  in  the  side  of  one  of  the  highest,  and  when  he 
had  penetrated  a  considerable  way,  he  heard  the  voice  of  a 
fiend,  who  entreated  that  he  would  deliver  him  from  con- 
finement, by  removing  a  board  by  which  he  was  spell- 
bound. In  return  for  this  service  he  offered  him  a  choice 
and  valuable  collection  of  books  on  necromancy,  which 
would  instruct  him  in  the  mysteries  of  that  art.  Virgilius 
having  removed  the  board,  the  devil  came  out  like  an  eel, 
and  then  stood  before  him  like  a  big  man.  Having  thus 
obtained  possession  of  the  fiend's  library,  Virgilius  con- 
ceived that  his  property  would  be  more  secure  if  he  could 

^  See  V.  Schmidt,  Beitriige  zur  geschichte  der  romantischen  Poesie, 
pp.  137,  141. 


CH.  VI.]  VIRGIL    THE    ENCHANTER.  435 

again  enclose  the  former  owner  in  the  hole  from  which  he 
had  issued.  He  accordingly  defied  him  to  return,  and  the 
demon  being  piqued  at  the  implied  doubt  of  his  powers, 
■\\i-ought  his  way  into  the  hole,  where  he  was  immediately 
shut  up  by  Yirgilius  placing  the  board  at  the  aperture, 
and  .will  in  all  ])robability  remain  imprisoned,  since  he  has 
irrecoverably  lost  the  literary  treasure  by  which  he  might 
again  tempt  the  curious  in  magic  to  render  him  assis- 
tance.' 

It  has  already  been  suggested,  that  this  fiction  must 
have  been  derived  from  a  tale  in  the  Arabian  Nights' 
Entertainments,  The  Story  of  the  Fisherman,  who,  having 
cast  his  nets,  drew  up  a  small  copper  vessel,  with  a 
leaden  seal  on  it,  which  being  removed,  a  thick  smoke 
issued  forth,  and  formed  itself  into  an  enormous  genie, 
who  threatened  to  slay  his  deliverer.  The  fisherman  pre- 
tended to  disbelieve  that  he  had  actually  been  confined  in 
the  small  copper  vessel,  and  adjured  him  again  to  enter  it 
that  he  might  be  convinced.  On  this  the  body  of  the  genie 
dissolving  in  mist,  made  its  way  into  the  vessel,  in  which 
the  fisherman  instantly  sealed  him  up  with  the  leaden 
seal,  which  had  been  originally  stamped  with  the  signet  of 
Solomon." 

In  one  of  the  French  Fabliaux,  entitled  Lai  d'Hijjjwcrate, 
(Le  Grand,  vol.  i.  p.  289,)  there  is  an  absurd  story  of  that 
physician  being  pulled  half  way  up  a  tower  in  a  basket,  by 
a  lady  of  whom  he  was  enamoured,  and  then  left  suspended, 
that  he  might  be  exposed  to*  the  ridicule  of  the  multitude. 
A  similar  story  is  related  of  Virgilius  on  his  first  arrival  at 
Rome ;  the  romancers  and  poets  of  the  middle  ages  taking 
delight  to  exhibit  the  greatest  and  wisest  characters  as 
victims  to  the  power  of  love.^ 

^  In  a  Latin  play  of  the  twelfth  century  Virgil  is  associated  with  the 
prophets  who  come  to  adore  the  new-born  Messiah,  and  joins  them  in 
a  long  rhymed  Benedicanius  at  the  termination  of  the  piece.  See 
Koqueforl,  p.  258,  1815. 

^  A  similar  episode  is  also  found  in  German  folk  tales:  Grimm, 
Kinderm.,  iii.  187,  and  in  the  Flemish  Smcke-Smee.  ISee  in  Wodana, 
Museum  voor  Nederduitsche  Oudheitskunde,  uitgeg.  door  J.  W.  Wolf, 
Ghent,  1843  ;  Heft,  i.  p.  54  5  and  the  Walloon  story  of  Le  ]\Iarechal  de 
Tamines,  in  Legendes  Xamuroises,  p.  206. 

^  Step,  Ilawes,  in  his  Pastyme  of  Pleasui'e,  gives  these  adventui'es 


436  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

From  gratitude  to  the  emperor,  who  restored  an  inheii- 
tance  of  which  he  had  been  unjustly  deprived,  VirgiHus 
constructed  for  him  a  palace,  in  which  he  saw  and  heard  all 
that  was  said  or  done  in  every  quarter  of  the  city.  We  are 
also  told  how  he  made  an  ever-blooming  orchard,^  the 
statues,  called  preservers  of  Rome,  already  mentioned,  and 
a  lamp  which  lighted  the  whole  city,  but  which  was  at 
length  broken,  in  a  manner  borrowed  from  the  story  of 
Gervase  of  Tilbury,  concerning  the  fire  and  the  archer. 
There  follows  the  account  of  his  amour  with  the  soldan's 
daughter,  whom  he  carried  off  from  her  father's  court,  and 
built  for  her  accommodation  the  town  of  Naples,  which  he 
founded  upon  eggs,  a  tradition  which  still  prevails  among 
the  Lazzaroni  of  that  city.  He  also  made  a  metal  serpent 
in  Eome,  and  whoever  put  his  hand  into  the  serpent's 
throat  was  to  swear  his  cause  was  right  and  true ;  and  if 
he  took  a  false  oath,  the  hand  was  infallibly  bitten  off.  It 
is  curious  that  at  this  day  there  is  a  chapel  at  Eome,  called 
Santa  Maria  in  Cosmedin,  built  in  the  first  ages  of  the 
church,  and  which  is  better  known  as  "  Bocca  della  verita," 
on  account  of  a  large  round  mask,  with  an  enormous  mouth, 
fixed  \ip  in  the  vestibule."     Tradition  says,  that  in  foiTaer 

of  Virgil  with  ludicrous  minuteness.  Juan  Ruiz,  the  archpriest, 
moralizes  upon  them,  and  concludes  with  an  incontrovertible  maxim  :^ 

"  Ansi  per  la  luxuria  es  verdaderamente 

El  mundo  escarnecido  e  muy  triste  la  gente." 

Cf.  V.  Schmidt  on  Petrus  Alfonsus,  p.  106 ;  Pantscha  Tantra  c.  4, 
fab.  1 ;  T.  Wright,  No.  83,  Fortini,  iii.  5 ;  D.  Quixote,  pt.  i.  c.  43, 
etc.,  etc. 

^  See  infra  note  on  Boccaccio,  Decamei'on,  x.  5. 

■^  Under  the  portico.  The  mask  was  probably  an  impluvium,  or 
opening  of  a  sink  in  classic  times. 

The  following  story  forms  the  206th  in  the  Franciscan  Pauli's 
"  Schimpff  und  Ernst."  There  was  once  a  kaiser  who  suspected  his 
consort  of  complaisance  towards  a  knight.  To  reassure  her  spouse  she 
consented  to  undergo  this  Virgilian  test,  and  a  day  was  fixed  for  the 
ordeal,  when  the  emperor  and  his  knights  assembled  in  the  appointed 
place.  The  empress  came  also  with  her  women.  "  It  happened,  as  she 
approached,  that  there  came  a  fool  in  a  fool's  dress,  who  pressing  through 
her  train  of  attendants,  fell  upon  the  neck  of  the  empress,  as  well  as 
upon  other  Avomen's,  and  kissed  her  before  the  whole  company.  The 
empress  wept  and  manifested  annoyance.  The  fool  disappeared.  As 
now  the  empress  reached  the  stone  (face  of  Vii-gil),  where  the  emperor 
was  standing,  she  swore,  saying  thus,  '  As  truly  as  no  man  hath  touched 


CH.  VI.]  VIRGIL    THE    ENCHANTER.  437 

times  the  Romans,  in  order  to  give  a  more  solemn  confir- 
mation to  oaths,  were  wont  to  put  their  hands  into  this 
mouth,  and  that  if  a  person  took  a  false  oath,  his  hand 
would  have  been  bitten  oft'.^ 

Many  other  marvellous  things  were  accomplished  by  Vir- 
gilius  during  his  life ;  but  the  story  of  his  death  is  the 
most  singular  and  interesting  part  of  the  romance.  As  he 
advanced  in  life,  Virgilius  entertained  the  design  of  reno- 
vating his  youth  by  force  of  magic.  With  this  view  he 
constructed  a  castle  without  the  city,  and  at  the  gate  of  this 
building  he  placed  twenty-four  images,  armed  with  flails, 
which  they  incessantly  struck,  so  that  no  one  could  approach 
the  entrance  unless  Virgilius  himself  arrested  their  mecha- 
nical motion.  To  this  castle  the  magician  secretly  repaired, 
accompanied  only  by  a  favourite  disciple,  whom  on  their 
arrival  he  led  into  the  cellar,  and  showed  him  a  barrel,  and 
a  fair  lamp  at  all  seasons  burning.  He  then  directed  his 
confidant  to  slay  and  hew  him  into  small  bits,  to  cut  his 
head  into  four,  to  salt  the  whole,  laying  the  pieces  in  a 
certain  ]:>osition  in  the  barrel,  and  to  place  the  barrel  under 
the  lamp ;  all  which  being  performed,  Virgilius  asserted 
that  in  nine  days  he  would  be  revived  and  made  young 
again.  The  disciple  was  sorely  perplexed  by  this  strange 
l^roposal.  At  last,  however,  he  obeyed  the  injunctions  of 
his  master,  and  Virgilius  was  pickled  and  barrelled  up 
according  to  the  very  unusual  process  which  he  had  di- 
rected. Some  days  after,  the  emperor  missing  Virgilius  at 
court,  inquired  concerning  him  of  the  confidant,  whom  he 
forced,  by  threats  of  death,  to  carry  him  to  the  enchanted 
castle,  and  to  allow  his  entrance  by  stopping  the  motion  of 
the  statues  which  wielded  the  flails.  After  a  long  search 
the  emperor  descended  to  the  cellar,  where  he  found  the 
remains  of  Virgilius  in  the  barrel ;  and  immediately  judg- 
ing that  the  disciple  had  murdered  his  master,  he  slew  him 

my  body  save  only  the  emperor  and  the  naughty  fool  who  hath  shamed 
me  before  all,  so  truly  thrust  I  mine  hand  in  ;  '  and  she  held  it  long  so. 
JSo  had  the  kaiser  a  dutiful  -wife.  She  swore  truly;  the  fool  was  the 
same  knight  in  the  fcwl's  dress." 

^  lieschreibung  der  Stadt  Kom  von  Platen,  Bunsen,  etc.,bd.  iii.  Abth. 
i.  p.  379,  etc.  Cf.  Straparola.  No.  4,  Fav.  2;  Malespini,  No.  98;  Gott- 
fried von  Strassburg's  "  Tristan,"  etc.,  v.  15522;  Timoneda's  '"  Patra- 
nuelo,"  No.  4,  etc.  etc. 


438  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

on  the  spot.  And  wlien  this  was  done,  a  naked  child  ran 
three  times  round  the  barrel,  saying,  "  Cursed  be  the  time 
that  ye  came  ever  here  ;"  and  with  these  words  the  embryo 
of  the  renovated  Virgil  vanished/ 

That  series  of  romances  in  which  the  heroes  and  sages 
of  antiquity  are  represented  as  knights-errant  and  sor- 
cerers, forms  the  last  class  of  tales  of  chivalry.  I  had  at 
one  time  expected  to  have  found  a  fifth  class,  relating  to 
the  Crusades ;  and  surely  no  subject  could  have  been  chosen 
more  adapted  to  romance  than  the  struggle  between  Sala- 
din  and  Richard,  both  unparalleled  in  feats  of  j^rowess, — 
the  one  exhibiting  the  Saracen  character  in  its  highest  per- 

^  The  tradition  of  the  Sorcerer  Virgil  may  have  arisen  in  connection 
with  the  Vii'gihus  who  was  Bishop  of  Salzburg,  a  man  of  wisdom  in 
advance  of  his  time,  who  is  reported  to  have  believed  in  antipodes,  etc., 
and  who,  like  Albertus  ]Magnus,  came  to  be  regai'ded  as  the  possessor  of 
magical  power.  See  Ideler,  Geschichte  der  Altfi-anzosischen  National- 
Literatur,  etc.,  p.  141,  note.  Dante's  selection  of  Virgil  for  a  guide 
would  almost  seem  to  have  been  suggested  by  the  mediaeval  idea  of  the 
Latin  poet. 

It  should  not  be  forgotten  that  the  memory  of  the  great  Latin  \x>et 
has  always  remained  green  at  Naples  and  in  the  neighbourhood  from 
the  time  that  Silius  Italicus  purchased  and  planted  the  ground  round 
his  tomb,  and  many  stories  of  Virgil's  magical  performances  are  still 
rife  among  the  common  folk  as  they  were  in  the  time  of  Petrarch,  who 
says  that  the  people  regarded  the  grotto  of  Posilippo  as  having  been 
formed  by  the  magic  incantations  of  the  poet. 

"  There  we  saw  Maro's  golden  tomb, 
The  way  he  cut  an  English  mile  in  length 
Thro'  a  rock  of  stone  in  one  night's  space." 

Marlowe,  Faustus,  act  iii.  so.  1. 

Petrarch,  however,  adds  that  he  had  nowhere  read  that  Virgil  was  a 
magician.  Those  who  would  pursue  the  subject  of  the  mythical  character 
with  which  the  sages  of  antiquity  were  invested  in  the  middle  ages  may 
be  referred  to  W3^ttenbach,  Plut.  de  aud.  poet.,  p.  21  ;  Schmidt,  Pefr. 
Alphonsi.  Discipl.  cier.,  pp.  91,  105  ;  Liebrecht,  Einhard  II.,  p.  266. 
Graesse  enumerates  various  writings  on  the  magician  Vergil,  Allg.  Lit. 
Gesch.  ii.  2,  62-4  n.,  and  in  Bertriige  zur  Literatur  und  Sage  des  Mit- 
telalters,  p.  27. 

The  Slavonic  expression  Verzhiulove  kolu  has  been  explained  by 
Jagic  as  meaning  the  Virgilian  {magic)  tohecl  or  circle,  Verdzilio,  Verzil, 
being  Slavonic  forms  of  Vergilio. 

I  may  refer  the  reader  for  whom  the  subject  may  offer  interest  to 
D,  Comparetti's  comprehensiA-e  Italian  treatise  on  Virgil  in  the  Middle 
Ages,  of  which  there  is  a  German  translation.  References  to  a  large 
number  of  works  relating  to  the  subject  are  contained  in  this  monograph. 


CH.  VI.]  VIRGIL    THE    ENCHANTER.  439 

fection,  aud  the  other  that  superhuman  courage  and  bound- 
less generosity  which  constitute  the  mirror  of  knighthood. 
Nothing,  however,  can  be  worse  founded  than  the  asser- 
tion of  Warburton,  and  of  Warton  [ed.  1824,  i.  p.  112],  that 
after  the  Holy  Wars  a  new  set  of  champions,  conquests, 
and  countries  were  introduced  into  romance  ;  and  that 
Solyman,  Nouraddin,  with  the  cities  of  Palestine  and 
Egypt,  became  the  favourite  topics.  Mr.  Ritson  [Anc. 
Metr.  Rom.,  i.  p.  52]  has  justly  remarked,  that  no  such 
change  took  place  as  is  pretended ;  and  so  far  from  the 
Crusades  and  Holy  Land  becoming  favourite  topics,  there 
is  not,  with  the  exception  of  the  uninteresting  romance  of 
Godfrey  of  Boulogne,  a  single  tale  of  chivalry  founded  on 
any  of  these  subjects.^  Perhaps  those  celebrated  expedi- 
tions undertaken  for  the  recovery  of  the  Holy  Land  were 
too  recent,  and  too  much  matter  of  real  life,  to  admit  the 
decorations  of  fiction.  Many  of  the  metrical  romances  were 
written  in  England  during  the  reign  of  Richard,  or  in 
France  in  the  age  of  St.  Louis,  and  were  transformed  into 
prose,  as  we  learn  from  the  authors  themselves,  at  the 
moment  when  Edward  I.  embarked  for  Palestine. 

Having  therefore  now  completed  the  task  of  furnishing 
an  analysis  of  the  most  imj^ortant  prose  romances  of 
chivalry  that  have  been  given  to  the  world,  I  shall  dismiss 
the  subject  by  a  few  remarks  on  the  influence  and  the  de- 
cline of  that  sj^ecies  of  composition. 

The  influence  which  chivalry  for  many  ages  exercised  in 
the  modification  of  manners  and  customs  has  been  often 
pointed  out,  and  whatever  that  effect  may  have  been,  it 
was  doubtless  heightened  by  the  composition  and  perusal 
of  romances. 

These  works  arose  from  a  system  of  manners,  and  in 
their  turn  exercised  on  manners  a  reciprocal  influence.  The 
taste  of  the  age  gradually  changed  from  a  fondness  for 
monkish  miracles  to  the  ready  admission  of  tales,  equally 
eccentric,  indeed,  and  improbable,   but  from  any  special 

^  It  will,  however,  be  remembered,  notes  Liebreeht,  that  in  con- 
seciuence  of  the  Crusades  the  scene  of  several  romances  was  laid  in  the 
Holy  Land  ;  e.g.,  Sir  Bevis,  Sir  Guy.  Sir  Isumbras,  The  King  of  Tars, 
etc.,  and  these,  as  appears  fi*om  Chaucer's  statement  [Hyme  of  Sir 
Thopas,  V.  13825,  etc.],  were  accounted  "  romances  of  pris."' 


440  HISTORY    OF    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

religious  tendency.  The  charms  of  romance  roused  the 
dormant  powers  of  the  human  intellect ;  gave  wings  to 
fancy  and  warmth  to  imagination ;  and,  in  some  degree, 
kindled  a  love  of  glory.  They  seem  also  to  have  inspired 
a  taste  for  reading ;  for  that  these  works  were  much  pe- 
rused, is  evident,  both  from  the  nnmber  that  were  written, 
and  the  many  editions  that  have  successively  appeared. 

Another  effect  produced  by  the  romances  of  chivalry,  was 
the  communication  of  beauty  and  interest  to  the  writings 
of  many  illustrious  j)oets,  who  improved  on  their  machinery, 
and  adopted  those  tales  of  wondrous  achievement  in  which 
the  amantes  mira  Camoenae  chiefly  rejoice.  Classical  fictions 
might,  like  the  G-recian  architecture,  be  more  elegant  than 
the  Gothic,  but  the  productions  of  the  middle  ages  were 
more  awakening  to  the  fancy  and  more  affecting  to  the 
heart.  The  perilous  adventures  of  the  Gothic  knights — 
their  high  honour,  tender  gallantry,  and  solemn  supersti- 
tions, presented  finer  scenes  and  subjects  of  description, 
and  more  interesting  displays  of  affection — in  short,  more 
beautv,  varietv,  and  pathos,  than  had  ever  vet  been  un- 
folded. 

Pulci  and  Boiardo,  the  earliest  romantic  poets  of  Italy, 
communicated  to  the  tales  of  chivalry  all  the  embellish- 
ments which  flow  from  the  charms  of  versification,  and  the 
beauties  of  an  enchanting  language.  From  their  example, 
the  fables  of  romantic  fiction  became  the  favourite  themes 
of  succeeding  poets.  The  compositions  adorned  by  these 
splendid  miracles  were  the  objects  of  universal  admiration, 
while  the  epic  poems  of  Trissino  and  Alamanni,  founded 
on  the  classic  model,  were  neglected  or  despised.  Nor  can 
this  be  wholly  attributed  to  the  difference  of  genius  in  the 
poets  themselves ;  for  while  the  other  waitings  of  Ariosto 
sunk  into  oblivion,  his  Orlando,  according  to  the  expression 
of  his  great  rival,  lives  in  ever-renovating  youth.  The 
genius  of  Tasso,  which  hardly  rises  above  mediocrity  in 
tragedy,  in  pastoral,  or  in  the  classical  refabrication  of  the 
Jerusalem,  has  reared  one  of  the  finest  poems  in  the  world 
on  the  basis  of  romantic  fiction.  "  These  were  the  tales," 
says  the  biographer  of  our  earliest  English  poet,  "with 
which  the  youthful  fancy  of  Chaucer  was  fed  ;  these  were 
the  visionary  scenes  by  which  his  genius  was  awakened  ; 


CH.  VI.]  VIRGIL    THE    ENCHANTER.  441 

these  were  the  acts  and  personages  on  which  his  boyish 
thoughts  were  at  liberty  to  ruminate  for  ever,"  ^  Many  too 
were  the  obhgations  of  Spenser  to  the  fables  of  romance  ; 
and  even  in  a  later  jieriod  they  nourished  the  genius  of  a 
l>oet  yet  more  august,  who  repeatedly  bears  his  testimony 
of  admiration  and  gratitude  to  their  inspiring  influence. — 
*'  I  will  tell  you,"  says  Milton,  "  whither  my  younger  feet 
wandered :  I  betook  me  among  those  lofty  fables  and 
romances  which  recount  in  solemn  cantos  the  deeds  of 
knighthood." ' 

A  change  introduced  in  the  customs  and  mode  of  life 
among  the  inhabitants  of  Europe,  as  it  was  the  i)rincipal 
source  of  the  rise,  so  it  may  be  also  regarded  as  the  chief 
cause  of  the  decline,  of  romantic  composition.  Tlie  aboli- 
tion of  chivalry  was  the  innovation  which  had  most  effect  in 
this  overthrow.  However  useful  that  institution  might 
have  been  in  the  early  stages  of  society,  it  was  found  that 
in  a  regular  campaign  the  utmost  disorder  resulted  from 
an  impetuous  militia,  which  knew  no  laws  but  those  of  its 
courage,  which  confounded  temerity  with  valour,  and  was 
incapable  of  rallying  in  the  hour  of  disaster.  Vigour  of 
discij^line  was  broken  by  want  of  unity  of  command  ;  for 
the  army  was  headed  by  chiefs  who  had  different  interests 
and  different  motives  of  action,  and  who  drew  not  from  the 
same  source  their  claims  to  obedience.  The  knights,  too, 
had  at  all  times  perverted  the  purposes  of  their  institution. 
If  we  believe  the  flattering  picture  given  by  Colombiere, 
the  errant  heroes  of  chivalry  wandered  through  the  world 
redressing  injuries,  extei'minating  the  banditti  with  which 
Europe  was  infested,  or  relieving  those  ladies  who  had 
fallen  into  the  power  of  enemies.  But  if  we  examine  other 
writers,  we  shall  meet  vriih.  a  very  different  account  of  these 
worthies,  and  shall  find,  according  to  the  quaint  expression 
of  an  old  English  author,  that  these  errant  knights  were 
arrant  knaves. 

Pierre  de  Blois,  who  wrote  in  the  twelfth  century,  com- 
plains that  the  horses  of  the  knights  were  more  frequently 
loaded  with  implements  of  gluttony  and  drunkenness,  than 
with  arms  fit  for  battle.  "  They  are  burdened,"  says  he  [Epist. 

^  Godwin,  Life  of  Chaucer,  vol.  i.  ch.  4. 

2  Toland's  '•  Life  of  Milton,"  p.  35.     Cf.  supra,  voi.  i.  p.  158. 


•M2  HISTORY    OP    FICTION.  [CH.  VI. 

No.  94],  "not  with  weajDons,  but  wine ;  not  with  javelins,  but 
cheeses ;  not  with  bludgeons,  but  bottles ;  not  with  spears, 
but  with  spits." — Nonferro  sedvino,  non  lanceis  sed  caseis, 
non  ensibus  sed  utribus,  non  hastibus  sed  verubus  oneran- 
tur.  In  France,  during  the  disorders  which  existed  in  the 
reign  of  Charles  VI,,  the  contending  factions,  with  a  view 
to  strengthen  their  interest,  multiplied  the  number  of 
knights,  by  which  means  the  order  was  degraded.  A  new 
institution  was  created  by  Charles  VII.,  who  bestowed  on 
his  Gensdarmerie  the  honours  hitherto  appropriated  to 
knighthood,  and  the  chivalry  of  France  became  anxious  to 
enroll  themselves  amongst  a  body  wherein  they  might 
arrive  at  military  command,  which,  as  simple  knights, 
they  could  no  longer  attain.  The  image  and  amusements 
of  chivalry  now  alone  remained.  Mankind  were  occasion- 
ally reminded  of  a  previous  state  of  society  by  the  exhibi- 
tion of  jousts  and  tournaments  ;  but  even  these,  in  a  short 
while,  became  unfashionable  in  France,  from  the  introduc- 
tion of  other  amusements,  and  the  accident  which  termi- 
nated the  life  of  one  of  its  monarchs  (Henry  II.). 

The  wonders  of  chivalry  had  disaj^peared  from  real  life, 
but  still  lingered  in  the  memory  of  man  :  new  romantic 
compositions,  indeed,  no  longer  were  written,  but  the  old 
ones  were  still  read  with  avidity,  when  all  the  powers  of 
wit  and  genius  were  exerted — not,  indeed,  to  ridicule  the 
spirit  of  chivalry,  or  a  state  of  society  which  had  passed 
away*  but  to  satirize  the  barbarous  relaters  of  chimerical 
adventures,  and  those  who  devoted  their  time  to  their 
perusal. 

Some  writers  have^  considered  the  Sir  Thopas  of  Chaucer 
as  a  prelude  to  the  work  of  Cervantes.^  It  may  be  much 
to  the  honour  of  the  English  poet  that  he  so  early  dis- 
cerned and  ridiculed  the  absurdities  of  his  contemporary 
romancers,  but  it  cannot  be  conceived  that  Sir  Thopas  had 
any  effect  in  discrediting  their  compositions.  It  a])peared 
in  a  reign  which  almost  reahzed  the  wonders  of  romantic 
fiction,  and  at  a  period  when  the  spirit  of  chivalry  possessed 
too  firm  hold  of  the  mind  to  suffer  the  love  of  the  marvel- 
lous to  be  easily  eradicated.     The  satire,  besides,  was  in- 

1  See  Warton,  Hist.  Eng.  Poet.,  1824,  ii.  268. 


CH.  VI.]  VIRGIL    THE    ENCHANTER.  443 

iinitely  too  recondite  to  have  been  detected  in  that  age ; 
what  was  meant  as  burlesque  was  probably  considered  as  a 
grave  heroic  narrative, — a  supposition  which  must  have 
been  strengthened  from  the  author  having,  in  another  com- 
position, the  Knight's  Tale,  adopted  the  extravagancies 
which  he  is  supposed  to  deride.  In  Don  Quixote,  on  the 
contrary,  the  satire  was  too  broad  to  be  mistaken,  and  ap- 
peared when  the  spirit  of  chivalry  was  nearly  abated.  The 
old  romancers  had  outraged  all  verisimilitude  in  their 
extravagant  pictures  of  chivalry,  and  as  their  successors 
found  that  the  taste  of  the  public  was  beginning  to  pall, 
they  sought  to  give  an  interest  to  their  compositions  by 
descriptions  of  more  impossible  valour  and  more  incredible 
absurdity.  Accordingly  the  evil  began  to  cure  itself,  and 
the  phantoms  of  knight-errantry  were  laughed  out  of  coun- 
tenance by  the  ridicule  of  Cervantes  before  their  substance 
had  been  presented,  at  least  in  a  prose  composition,  by 
any  author  of  genius. 

I  do  not  believe  that  the  prevalence  of  the  heroic,  or  pas- 
toral romances,  had  much  effect  in  discrediting  the  tales  of 
chivalry  :  these  new  fictions  rather  arose  in  consequence  of 
a  decline  of  the  taste  for  the  old  works,  and  the  stagnation 
of  amusement  which  followed ;  but  it  is  j^robable  they  were, 
in  some  measure,  overshaded  by  the  growth  of  other  branches 
of  literature.  The  study  of  the  classics  introduced  method 
into  composition,  and  the  ambition  of  rivalling  these  new 
patterns  of  excellence  produced  imitation.  Fancy  'was 
curbed  by  reflection,  and  rules  of  criticism  intimidated  the 
bold  eccentricities  of  romantic  genius.  Besides,  the  Gothic 
fables  were  superseded  by  the  general  diffusion  of  the  works 
of  the  Italian  novelists  in  France  and  England,  and  the 
numerous  translations  and  imitations  of  them  in  both 
countries.  The  alternate  pictures  of  ingenious  gallantry 
and  savage  revenge,  which  these  exhibit,  produced  a  taste 
in  reading,  which,  when  once  formed,  could  not  easily  have 
been  recalled  to  a  relish  for  the  delights  of  romance.  These 
tales  form  an  extensive  and  interesting  department  of 
fiction,  and  their  origin  and  progress  will  be  the  subject 
of  our  first  inquiries  in  the  succeeding  chapters. 


SUPPLEMENTARY   NOTES. 

VOL.   I. 

Theagenes  and  Chariclea  (p,  24). 

There  appeared,  according  to  A.  Kirpichiiikof  (p.  148,  Grech. 
Rom.),  fourteen  editions  and  translations  of  Theagenes  and 
Chariclea  in  the  sixteenth,  and  only  four  in  the  eighteenth 
century,  a  fact  which  tends  to  show  the  influence  of  Greek 
romance  upon  the  kindi-ed  kind  of  fiction  then  developing — the 
heroic  novel,  which  replaced  the  Amadis  romances ;  the  Histoire 
afriquaine  de  Cleomede  et  de  Sophonisbe,  par  le  Sieur  de  Gerzan, 
1627,  is  only  an  epic  expansion  of  the  story  of  Heliodorus. 

Les  chastes  et  loyales  amours  de  Theagene  et  Chariclee,  by 
Hardy,  in  eight  dramatic  poems,  appeared  in  1601. 

On  the  influence  of  the  Greek  romance  in  French  literature  of 
the  seventeenth  century,  see  Koerting,  Geschichte,  etc.  chap.  2, 
and  infra  (vol.  iii.),  Mile.  Scudery  confesses  her  model  is  "  Tim- 
mortel  Heliodore." 

Note  (p.  41). 

The  episode  of  the  bee-stung  lip  may  perliaps  have  been 
suggested  by  Anacreon's  ode  xl. : — 

'Epu)Q  TTOT  iv  pocoiai,  etc. 

Cf  Theocritus,  idyll,  xix,,  also  Ronsard's  imitation  : — 

Le  petit  enfant  Amour 
Cueilloit  des  fleurs  a  Tentour 
lyune  ruche,  ou  les  avettes 
Font  leur  petites  loyettes,  etc. 


446  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 


Apollonius  of  Tyre  (p.  85,  n.). 

Similar  to  the  story  of  the  daughter  of  Apollonius  is  that  of  St. 
Genevieve  de  Brabant,  which  has  fiirnished  the  theme  of  nume- 
rous plays,  poems,  and  romances.  She  was  the  consort  of  Count 
Siegfried,  who  w^as  persuaded  by  his  servant  that  she  was  un- 
faithful. He  ordered  her  to  be  put  to  death ;  the  retainers 
charged  with  this  commission,  however,  abandoned  her  alive  in  a 
forest  where  she  gave  birth  to  a  child,  which  was  nursed  by  a 
white  doe.  In  the  course  of  years,  her  husband,  while  hunting, 
came  to  her  dwelling,  her  innocence  was  established,  the  wicked 
steward  was  put  to  death,  and  she  restored  to  her  rights. 

Cognate  also  is  the  Breton  legend  and  miracle-play  of  King 
Arthur  and  Saint  Triphime. 

The  Legend  of  Bertha  of  the  large  foot  is  of  the  same  class 
with  the  above.  She  was  the  daughter  of  Charibert,  Count  of 
Laon.  Her  hand  was  asked  by  Pepin,  and  granted,  but  she  was 
persuaded  that  his  first  marital  embraces  would  stifle  a  maiden, 
and  she  was  therefore  temporarily  replaced  by  her  servant 
Aliste.  This  substitution  was  but  part  of  a  plot  for  the  ruin  of 
Bertha,  who  was  taken  off  at  night  to  be  murdered  in  a  forest 
near  Mans,  Avhere,  however,  she  was  spared  by  those  charged  to 
slay  her,  and  abandoned.  Here  she  passed  eight  years  of  the 
homeliest  life.  But  at  length  her  mother,  Blancheflore,  consort 
of  Flore,  King  of  Hungary,  grew  anxious  about  Bertha,  and 
undertook  a  journey  to  France  to  visit  her  daughter.  She  met 
with  a  very  bad  reception  everywhere  on  her  passage,  for  Pepin's 
consort,  reputed  Bertha,  but  really  Aliste,  had  brought  odium 
upon  the  name  of  the  ousted  princess.  Upon  Blancheflore's 
arrival,  Aliste,  dreading  detection,  feigned  illness,  and  retired  to 
a  darkened  chamber.  Blancheflore,  however,  discovers  the  fi-aud, 
when  she  finds  her  supposed  daughter  has  not  Bertha's  large  foot. 
The  impostor  avows  all  and  retires  to  a  nunnery.  Margiste,  the 
arch-plotter,  is  burned  alive,  and  long  but  fruitless  search  is 
made  for  Bertha.  This  virtuous  and  contented  damsel,  like  an 
earlier  Griselda,  is,  however,  accidentally  discovered  by  Pepin 
while  out  hunting — he  espies  a  maiden  kneeling  before  a  cross  in 
the  depth  of  a  forest.  He  is  straightway  smitten  and  addresses 
her  with  amorous  urgency,  but  she  to  defend  her  honour  tells 
him  she  is  the  daughter  of  a  king,  is  Berthe  au  grand  pied.      She 


VAMPIRES    AND    WERWOLVES.  447 

was  brought  back  in  triumph,  wedded  and  had  six  children  by 
Pepin.  The  story  was  celebrated  by  Adenez  le  roy  in  the  thir- 
teenth century.  See  Zur  Kritik  der  Bertasage,  by  Dr.  A.  Feist, 
Marburg,  1885,  and  Romania,  1884,  p.  60.  On  the  name  Bertha, 
see  F.  Liebrecht,  Zur  Volkskundc,  p.  512.  Cf.  also  the  Slavonic 
story.  The  Miller's  Daughter  become  Queen,  in  Tales  from  Twelve 
Tongues ;  Lond.,  1882. 


Vampires  and  "Werwolves. 

Pp.  90,  p.  47,  48. 

Other  forms  of  the  word  are  ijovpKoXai^oi,  ftpiKoXaKCc,  (jovXko- 
XaKa.  It  is  a  Slavonic  importation,  adopted  with,  however,  a 
change  of  character,  in  Greece ;  and  volkodlaki,  volkoulaki 
Dal  (Tolkovyi  Slovar'  zhivavo  velikorusskavo  yazika,  1880,  i., 
\).  237  ^)  conjectures  may  be  derived  from  volk,  wolf,  and  houclla, 
hair  or  wool  =  the  wolf's  shaggy  coat.  The  Slavonic  word 
means  a  man  that  has  been  transformed  into  a  wolf,  the  werwolf 
or  loup-garou,  the  object  of  a  widely  diffused  superstition,  respect- 
ing whicli  see  Afanasief  Poeticheskia  vozzrenia  Slavian  na  pri- 
rodou,  vol.  iii.  p.  527,  etc.  Also  Schmidt,  Das  Volksleben  der 
Xeugriechen  und  das  hellenische  Alterthum,  1871  ;  1  Theil., 
p.  157,  etc.  The  superstition  is  visited  in  the  Greek  IsTomo- 
canon.  See  Harleian  MS.  5548,  clause  ?0.,  foL  37  verso,  "To 
avTO  iTZLTifiiov  vTCOTTLaovvrai  kcu  oi  rovg  Xeyofxiyovg  (DOvpKoXa- 
k'ovq  KaraKaiorreQ,  kul  it,  ek^'ivuv  Kcnr)'i^ot'-ai,  wore  ^ojovg  'i'S, 
fxrj  Koivio\n]aovvy 

Witches  are  believed  to  have  the  power  of  changing  themselves 
and  others  into  werwolves.  The  metamorphosis  is,  according  to 
tlie  Slavonic  tradition,  the  simplest  thing  in  the  world,  and  if  you 
are  desirous  of  achieving  it,  you  have  merely  to  repair  to  the 
nearest  wood  Avliere  you  must  find  a  stump  of  a  tree  that  has  been 
felled,  and  which  the  axe  has  left  with  a  smooth  flat  surface. 
Into  this  infix  a  knife,  with  incantations,  and  then  turn  a  somer- 
sault over  it,  when  forthwith  you  will  find  yourself  transformed 
into  a  wolf.  Should  you  grow  tired  of  your  lupine  existence, 
you  should  approach  the  opposite  side  of  the  stump,  and  turn  a 
somersault  backwards  over  it,  when  you  will  straightway  recover 
your  human  shape.     It  is  well,  however,  at  the  outset  to  take 


448  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

precautions  against  the  removal  of  the  knife,  for  if  anyone  should 
withdraw  it  yoii  will  end  your  days  a  wolf. 

Compare  also  Malory's  "  Morte  Arthur,"  book  xix.  c.  11,  and 
supra,  p.  151,  note  2.  Lycaon,  King  of  Arcadia,  was  changed  by 
Jupiter  into  a  wolf  in  punishment  for  his  cruelties. — Ovid.  Pliny 
says  that  one  of  the  family  of  Antaeus  was  chosen  annually  by  lot  for 
the  fate  of  being  a  wolf  for  nine  years.  The  Neuri  had  the  faculty 
of  assuming  the  form  of  wolves, — Herodot.  (iv.  105).  Tiridates, 
King  of  Armenia,  a  persecutor  of  the  Christians,  was,  according  tc 
legend,  changed  into  an  animal  by  St.  Gregory  the  Illuminator,  the 
apostle  of  Armenia,  but  finally  converted  and  baptized  ;  and  there 
is  a  story  of  St.  Patrick  having  changed  a  AVelsh  chief  Vereticus 
into  a  wolf.  There  is  a  passage  in  the  Otia  Imperialia  of  Ger- 
vase  of  Tilbury  which  mentions  the  common  belief  in  lycanthropy,. 
and  associates  the  transformation  with  the  moon's  phases,  as  is 
also  done  in  the  curious  story  of  the  lupis-homem  in  J.  Latouche's 
"  Travels  in  Portugal,"  third  edition,  pp.  25-34.  In  the  last- 
named  instance  the  blood  of  a  new-born  infant,  if  sucked  by  the 
werwolf,  effects  its  disenchantment  and  return  to  human  shape. 
See  a  note  on  the  word  "  Werwolf,"  by  Sir  F.  Madden,  prefixed 
to  the  Romance  of  William  of  Palerme  (otherwise  known  as 
William  the  Werwolf).  Edited  by  AV.  Skeat  for  the  Early 
English  Text  Society;  London,  1867. — W.  Hertz,  Der  Werwolf, 
Stuttgart,  1862. 

Cupid  and  Psyche  (p.  112). 

Kitual  or  ceremonial  observances  to  celebrate  the  disappear- 
ance of  the  cold  and  the  advent  of  the  warm  season,  may  be 
traced  in  various  "games"  or  customs  still  extant  in  different 
parts  of  Europe.  An  effigy  is  borne  in  procession  and  festally 
burned  or  drowned,  after  which  a  lord  or  queen  of  May  is 
chosen,  crowned,  and  led  in  triumph.  See  Grimm  (Teutonic 
Mythology,  ii.  p.  763,  etc.),  and  Freytag,  De  initiis  scenieae  poesis 
apud  Germanos  ;  Berlin,  1838,  p.  13.  There  is  an  analogous 
Slavonic  custom  of  celebrating  the  exit  of  Winter  and  entrance 
of  Spring  observed  in  the  month  of  March, — a  straw  effigy  of 
Morana  (Death)  is  taken  to  a  field  and  there  burned  or  torn  to  bits, 
or  dragged  into  a  river  and  bonfires  are  lighted  in  token  of  triumph. 

Some  analogy  may  be  traced  between  the  story  of  Apuleius  and 
the  Norweofian  folk  tale,  Eastwards  from  the  Sun  and  Westwards 


BRITISH    EMIGRATION    TO   ARMORICA.  449 

from  the  Moon  (Asbjornson  and  Moe,  ii.  p.  102) ;  o  Principe  das 
Palmas  Verdes,  Xo.  44  of  A.  Coelho's  *'  Contos  Populares  Portu- 
guezes,"  Lisbon,  1879;  and  the  Sicilian  King  Porco  (Gonzen- 
bach,  Xo.  42,  i.  p.  285).  See  also  the  essay  on  Cupid  and 
Psyche  in  Friedliinder's  "  Darstellungen  aus  der  Sittengeschichte 
Roms.  Anhang.,"  i.  p.  509-548,  fourth  edition  ;  see  also  Creuzer, 
Symbolik  und  Mythologie,  13.  iii.  ch.  6,  §  5,  6.  Boccaccio 
says  (Gen.  Deorum,  lib.  v.  c.  22)  that  a  whole  volume  would  be 
required  for  the  complete  explanation  of  this  allegory.  Landau 
(QueDen,  pp.  311,  314),  shows  how  closely  Boccaccio  (Deca- 
meron, V.  10  and  vii.  2)  has  followed  Apuleius,  as  has  like- 
wise Mr.  Robert  Bridges  in  his  poem,  Eros  and  Psyche  ; 
London,  1886.  See  F.  Liebrecht,  Zur  Volkskunde,  p.  377, 
Maibaum,  and  the  same  writer's  Amor  und  Psyche,  Zeus  und 
Semele,  Pururavas  und  Urvagi,  in  the  Zeitschrift  fiir  vergleichende 
Sprachforschung,  xviii.  56,  etc. 

British  Emigration  to  Armorica  (p.  118). 

See  L'Emigration  bretonne  en  Armorique  du  V^  au  VIF  siecle 
de  notre  ere,  par  J.  Loth;  Paris,  Picard,  1883,  where  the  whole 
question  of  this  flight  is  carefully  discussed,  as  well  as  the  causes 
which  led  to  it,  the  districts  whence  the  emigrants  came,  the  way 
in  which  the  island  Britons  took  possession  of  Western  Armorica, 
the  extent  of  the  territory  occupied  by  them,  and  theii'  distribu- 
tion therein,  etc.  See  Romania,  1884,  436,  etc.  Romania,  xii, 
367,  etc. 

Dragon  (pp.  125,  126,  405). 

That  the  idea  of  the  dragon  was  imported  at  one  epoch  or  an- 
other from  the  East  can  hardly  be  doubted.  But  whether  the 
figment  was  suggested  by  the  remains  of  gigantic  palaeozoic 
saurians  and  pterodactyls  to  which  the  researches  of  modern 
naturalists  have  accustomed  our  eyes,  or  whether  the  strength 
and  ferocity  of  the  crocodile  (see  note  on  the  story  of  St.  Helenus 
in  chap,  ix.)  seemed  an  apposite  emblem  of  evil  might,  to  which 
the  fancy  superadded  wings,  or  whether  the  small  dragon  reptile 
(lacerta  volans)  magnified  by  imagination  was  a  Active  develop- 
ment of  the  serpent,  one  of  the  oldest  typifications  of  evil  power, 
seems  unprofitable  to  speculate. 

That  the  Crocodile  was  used  in  Egypt  to  typify  Set  we  can  see 
in  the  note  to  the  legend  of  St.  Helenus.     The  Egyptians  painted 

I.  G  G 


450  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

the  malevolent  deity  Apophis  as  a  serpent,  which  Horus  pierces 
with  his  lance  (G.  Wilkinson,  Customs  and  Manners  of  th-e 
Ancient  Egyptians,  iv.  p.  243-435).  In  India  Vishnu,  the  second 
person  of  the  Hindu  trinity,  slays  the  serpent  Caliya.  In  Per- 
sia, too,  Ahriman,  the  evil  principle,  was  figured  by  the  serpent. 
In  Greece,  Apollo,  akin  to  Horus,  slays  the  Python,  and  Her- 
cules the  Hydra.  The  Christians  adopted  the  figure  of  "the 
dragon,  that  old  serpent,  which  is  the  Devil  and  Satan  "  (Rev, 
XX.  2),  which  raged  against  him  that  sat  on  the  White  Horse 
out  of  heaven,  who  is  "  called  Faithful  and  True,  and  in  righteous- 
ness he  doth  judge  and  make  war"  (Rev.  xix.  11).  St.  George 
mounted  like  Vishnu  on  his  peculiar  white  charger — St.  Georges 
belle  monture  (see  Milles  and  Amys,  c.  vii.  vol.  i.) — triumphing 
over  the  dragon,  is  the  victory  of  Faith  and  Truth,  Christianity 
over  Idolatry,  achieved  it  may  be  at  the  sword's  point,  after 
the  manner  of  Count  Huon  of  Bordeaux,  who  would  not  brook 
the  imprecations  of  a  Moslem  knight, 

Herr  Huon,  dem  es  graut  ihm  langer  zuzuhoren, 
Zieht  sein  geweites  Schwert  den  Heiden  zu — bekehi'en, 

at  the  price  of  much  carnage  of  Pagans,  or  perhaps  of  Chris- 
tians, according  to  the  adage,  "  the  blood  of  martyrs  is  the  seed 
of  the  Church."  And  it  may  be  noted  in  this  connection  that 
some  of  the  variants  of  the  legend  of  St.  George  make  him  re- 
appear on  earth  after  his  martyrdom,  and  conquer  the  dragon, 
and  deliver  the  princess  and  her  father  s  city  from  the  monster, 
upon  condition  of  their  conversion  to  Christianity.  The  horse 
upon  which  the  Saint  rides  may,  too,  be  a  reminiscence  of  the 
horses  of  the  sun,  familiar  in  Greek  mythology.  Compare 
2  Kings  xxiii.  11.  The  serpent  or  dragon  typified  idolatry 
and  heresy ;  and  it  was,  says  Eusebius,  in  his  Life  of  the  Emperor 
Constantine,  1.  iii.  c.  iii.,  placed  under  his  feet  in  representations 
of  that  monarch. 

The  story  of  Perseus  and  Andromeda  found  a  kind  of  allegorical 
application  to  the  delivery  of  a  country  or  city  from  idolatry,  the 
counti-y  or  city  being  personified  by  the  female  figure  of  the 
story  ;  and  saints  whom  tradition  avers  to  have  introduced  Chris- 
tianity and  abolished  idolatrous  worship  are  often  represented 
with  the  accessory  emblem  of  a  draconiform  monster.  St.  Ger- 
main I'eeossais  is  sculptured  leading  a  polycephalous  dragon,  like 
the  fabled  Lernean  Hydra  slain  by  Hercules,  or  the  apocalyptic 


DRAGON.  451 

seven-hcadcd  beast  so  often  depicted  in  medigeval  paintings.  In 
one  of  the  tales  in  the  Indian  repertory,  Vikrama-Charitrani,  the 
ruler  of  the  subterranean  Fatal,  or  Serpent-realm,  is  Seschnag, 
the  thousand-headed  serpent.  It  is  significant  that  in  many 
hagiographic  legends,  and  in  some  variants  of  the  story  of  St. 
George,  St.  Martha,  St.  Marcel,  etc.,  there  is  no  physical  violence 
in  the  contest  between  saint  and  dragon  ;  this  would  be  naturally 
a  Christian  phase  of  the  tradition. 

In  Scandinavian  mythology  the  Serpent  of  Midgard  (*'  terrestre 
monstrum  sive  serpens,  alias  Midgardsormr,  anguis  terrenus  sive 
terram  ciugens,  serpens  immanissimus  ")  is  slain  by  Thor  (see 
F.  Magmisen,  Yeterum  Borealium  Mythologi«  Lexicon.  1828, 
p,  207).  Again,  Fafinis,  who  slew  his  father,  Hreidmar,  so  that  he 
might  obtain  his  treasm-e,  in  order  to  guard  which  he  transformed 
himself  into  a  dragon  or  serpent,  was  slain  by  Sigurd,  hence 
called  Fafhisbane  (Fafnericida)  Magnusen,  s.  v.  Fafuir.  Beowulf 
slays  the  Fen-Monster  Grendel,  who  devours  thirty  thanes,  and 
sucks  their  blood,  and  dwells  in  the  pool  of  the  Xicors.  The 
Golden  Fleece,  the  Garden  of  the  Hesperides,  were  guarded  by 
dragons,  and  griffins  hoarded  the  golden  sand  of  the  Scvthian 
Arimaspians.  Sometimes  the  dragon  guards  the  access  to  some 
source  of  water,  a  tradition  which  has  been  interpreted  as  a  figure 
of  Satan,  obstructing  or  contaminating  the  waters  of  baptism. 

And  here  may,  perhaps,  lie  also  an  analogy  with  the  dragon 
guardian  of  the  Castalian  spring,  whose  cool  waters  were  the 
fount  of  true  poetic  inspiration. 

The  chimaeras,  pythons,  and  hydras  (Sanskt.  hudras,  =  water 
animal,  otter,  ?  adder)  of  Greek  mythology,  like  the  Celtic  Adanc  and 
the  Slavonic  water-demon,  are  all  associated  with  water  or  marsh, 
and  imply,  perhaps,  on  the  other  hand,  flood  or  malaria,  and  are  often 
the  accessory  characteristic  of  Saints  who,  according  to  legend, 
have  banished  some  local  scourge  which  has  gradually  taken 
romantic  shape  in  popular  tradition,  as  the  dragon  of  Wantley 
exterminated  by  More,  the  Gargouille  of  Rouen  overcome  by  St. 
Romanus,  or  the  far-famed  Tarasque  which  ravaged  the  district 
of  Tarascon,  and  the  reptiles  permanently  exiled  by  St.  Patrick. 
The  dragon  is  an  attribute  of  numerous  Celtic  or  Breton  Saints, 
who  have  some  legend  of  a  di-agon  associated  with  their  lives. 
In  the  fabulous  History  of  Alexander,  the  river  which  separates 
the  abodes  of  the  men  from  those  of  the  women  in  the  land  of 
Bramckmani.  or  Brahmins,  is  haunted  by  a  terrible  serpent,  capable 


452  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

of  devouring  a  whole  Mia  at  once,  who  renders  the  river  in- 
traversable  except  for  the  interval  of  forty  days  during  which  he 
withdraws,  and  renders  intercourse  possible. 

In  Authot's  "  Traite  des  Dragons  et  des  Escarboucles,"  p.  83, 
it  is  stated  that  dragonneau  is  the  name  of  "  un  Ver  qui  tient 
depuis  la  teste  jusques  aux  pieds,  entre  chair  &  cuir,  cause  par 
les  mauvaises  eaux  que  Ton  boit  en  Asie."  St.  Macarius  (Homil.  i. 
pt.  5,  Vis.  Ezech.),  compares  demons  to  worms  :  "  kol  oi  kukol 
Kcd  ^eivoi  (TKOjXrjKEQf  ci  ian  ra  izvtv^aTa  TiJQ  Trovrjpicic.'' 

The  breath  or  saliva  of  the  traditional  dragon  is,  indeed,  as 
deadly  as  any  malarious  exhalation.  A  writer  in  the  Month, 
October,  1886,  thinks  that  the  huge  extinct  animals  of  which 
skeletons  remain  may  actually  have  poisoned  the  air  with  their 
breath  for  large  areas.  He  considers  that  traditions  of  dragons 
may  refer  to  remembered  survivals  of  these  monsters. 

Modern  stories  of  "  sea  sei-pents  "  are  matched  by  the  ancient 
belief  in  sea  monsters  such  as  that  to  which  Psyche  and  Andro- 
meda were  exposed.  In  the  last-named  instance  the  tradition  was 
localized  to  Jaffa.  Pliny,  that  versatile  gossip  to  whom  we  owe  so 
much  interesting  but  second-hand  knowledge  of  antiquity,  says 
(Nat.  Hist.,  1.  V.  c.  14)  that  on  the  rock  opposite  Joppa  or  Jaffa 
vestiges  were  still  shoAvn  in  his  time  of  the  chains  by  which 
Andromeda  had  been  bound;  and,  in  another  place  (Nat.  Hist., 
1.  ix.  c.  4),  that  M.  Scaurus  exhibited  at  Rome  during  his  aedile- 
ship  the  bones  said  to  be  of  the  monster  to  which  she  had  been 
exposed,  and  which  he  had  brought  fi'om  Joppa.  They  exceeded 
forty  feet  in  length,  the  ribs  were  higher  than  those  of  the  Indian 
elephant,  and  the  backbone  was  a  foot  and  a  half  in  thickness. 
Cuvier,  from  this  description,  inferred  they  were  the  bones  of  the 
whale.  Pliny  says  (Nat.  Hist.,  viii.  14)  that  during  the  Punic 
war  the  passage  of  the  river  Bagrada,  supposed  to  be  the  modern 
Mejerdah,  in  Africa,  by  the  Roman  army  under  Regulus,  was 
disputed  by  a  serpent  120  feet  long,  which  was  overcome  by  the 
employment  of  siege  engines.  Its  skin  and  jaws  were  preserved 
in  a  temple  at  Rome,  down  to  the  time  of  the  Numantine  war. 
The  incident  is  referred  to  by  various  ancient  writers,  among 
whom  Livy,  1.  xviii.  ;  Florus,  ii.  c.  2  ;  Valerius  Maximus,  i.  c.  8  ; 
Aulus  Gellius,  vi.  c.  3. 

Doubtless  belief  in  dragons  may  have  been  much  strengthened 
by  the  discovery  of  the  remains  of  extinct  animals  of  extraordinary 
size.     Mrs.  Jameson  mentions  that  a  fossil  saurian  skeleton  was 


DRAGON.  453 

long  exhibited  at  Aix  as  that  of  a  dragon  which  had  formerly  de- 
vastated the  neighbourhood.  The  fish  or  whale  of  Jonah  is  often 
represented  in  the  Catacombs  as  a  sort  of  draconic  nondescript 
(see  Smith  and  Cheetham,  Christ.  Antit^.  Dragon),  perhaps  with 
the  idea  of  symbolizing  Christ's  passage  mider  and  out  of  the 
power  of  hell  and  of  death. 

The  wingless,  footless,  fish-like  "  draco,"  the  standard  of  the 
Dacians,  recurs  frequently  on  the  column  of  Trajan.  The  Romans 
had  adopted  from  the  East,  as  an  ensign  for  some  cohorts,  a 
dragon.  Constantine  replaced  these,  but  perhaps  not  entirely,  by 
his  well-known  Christian  labarum.  Sometimes,  indeed  (see 
Ducange.  cit.  Baron,  ad  an.  325,  Gretzer  de  Cruce,  t.  iii.  1.  i.  c.  5), 
the  stem  of  the  cross  pierces  or  rests  upon  a  dragon.  The  old 
designation  of  the  standard-bearer,  Dragonarius,  would  seem, 
however,  to  have  persisted,  and  passed  to  the  cross-bearer  in 
Christian  and  Papal  times,  or  to  the  bearers  of  some  dragon 
svmbol  still  retained,  and  perhaps  in  this  way  originating  the  word 
dragoon.  Draconari,  says  Angelo  Rocca,  were  soldiers  who 
accompanied  the  Pope.  Dragons  were  undoubtedly  borne  in 
ecclesia^^tical  processions  in  Rome  and  some  other  Churches  (see 
Ducange -]Martigny,  Diet.  Ant.  Chret.,  and  Durandus). 

The  word  dragon,  and  with  the  word  the  idea  of  a  winged 
saurian,  replaced  the  earlier  worm  or  serpent  which  we  find  in 
the  most  ancient  Celtic  and  Teutonic  literary  remains,  and  was 
perhaps  introduced  into  the  northern  countries  coevally  with 
Roman  dominion.  The  Latin  draco  is  from  cpa/cwv,  from  cipKeiv, 
to  look,  and  is  thought,  like  lind^  worm  (lint  bright),  to  refer  to 
the  traditional  piercing  eyes  of  the  mythical  monster,  or  the 
fabled  luminous  carbuncle  (see  supra,  note  to  Parthenopex  de 
Blois,  p.  408)  which  did  duty  for  them.  Orm,  snake,  or  worm, 
is  found  in  the  Icelandic  Edda,  dreki  occurring  but  once ; 
the  Greek  or  Latin  word  is  found  in  Icelandic  in  the  form  dreki  in 
the  Solarliod,  or  Song  of  the  Sun,  a  poem  composed  about  the 
time  of  the  introduction  of  Christianity.  In  Beowulf,  a  Saxon 
poem  of  the  seventh  or  eighth  century,  draca  and  vyrm  (worm  or 
snake)  are  both  used.  The  Celtic  dragun  is  clearly  derived  from 
draco  or  cpaicojy,  and  must  also  have  reached  Britain  with  other 
Latin  influences.  It  is  said  to  occur  frequently  in  the  AVelsh 
triads,  but  the  date  of  these  is  unascertained,  and  is  placed  by 
some  as  late  as  the  thirteenth  century.  Dragon,  says  Mr.  Skeat  in 
his   Dictionarv.  was   common  in  ^liddle  EuLdish  in  the  sense  of 


454  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES, 

Standard.  He  quotes  from  Robert  of  Gloucester,  "  Edmond 
ydyzt  his  standard  .  .  .  and  hys  dragon  \y>  jset,"  and  refers  to 
other  passages.  On  p.  125,  note,  we  have  seen  two  instances — one 
in  fable,  the  other  in  history — of  the  use  of  a  dragon  standard  in 
Britain.  The  usual  ensign  of  the  Gauls  was  a  boar,  as  abundant 
evidences,  architectural  and  numismatic,  show  (Hucher,  Les 
monnaies  gauloises,  etc.). 

In  the  Chansons  de  Geste  the  di-agon,  doubtless  as  symbolic  of 
the  Evil  One  or  heresy,  is  the  Muhammedan  standard : 

De  devant  sei  fait  porter  sun  dragon 
Et  un  ymagen  Apolin  le  felun. 

Chanson  de  Eoland,  st.  237,  v.  2. 

and  in  Garin  li  Loherain,  v.  27,  403  : 

Le  signers  d'Aus  qui  porte  le  dragon. 

In  the  Four  Sons  of  Aymon  (see  p.  343)  the  Dragon  is  merely 
the  flag  which  surmounts  the  tent  of  Charlemagne's  generalissimo, 
Roland. 

To  anyone  who  has  thoughtfully  examined  the  specimens  of 
Celtic  and  Scandinavian  metal-work  and  other  ornamental  pro- 
ductions, it  Avill  be  pretty  evident  that  these  more  uncultured 
art  forms  were  not  wholly  supplanted  by  Christian  traditions. 
The  mixture  of  heathen  and  Christian  ideas  in  the  arts  of  design 
is  only  a  parallel  to  the  crude  combination  of  pagan  and  eccle- 
siastical traditions  in  lay  and  legend.  The  diverse  animal  forms 
employed  in  the  art  of  the  twelfth  century  throughout  Europe, 
are  according  to  Lenoir  (Architecture  Monastique,  ii.  p.  170)  of 
Xorthern  origin.  On  the  other  hand  the  lacertine  monsters  so 
characteristic  of  Celtic  art,  as  Westwood  surmises  (Palseographia 
Sacra,  p.xi.),  may  have  been  brought  to  Ireland  by  Eastern  mis- 
sionaries, and  were  perhaps  originally  Eg^^ptian  ophites.  Dr. 
Waagen,  taking  a  contrary  view  (F.  Eggers,  Deutsches  Kunst- 
blatt,  1850,  p.  84)  considers  these  animal  flgures  a  creation  of 
Celtic  fancy,  while  Hildebrand  supposed  them  borrowed  from 
and  correlated  with  contemporaneous  Germanic  ornamentation. 
O'Neill  (The  Fine  Arts  and  Civilization  of  Ancient  Ireland,  p.  74) 
is  inclmed  to  look  on  the  animal  forms  so  plentifully  employed 
in  the  illumination  of  Irish  manuscripts  as  a  heritage  from  a  much 
earlier  epoch  and  referable  to  heathen  serpent  worship,  and  Dr. 
Rock  (Church  of  our  Fathers,  p.  78)  is  inclined  to  attribute  to 


DRAGON,  465 

them  a  symbolical  application.  See  Sophus  Miiller  (Thierorna- 
meutik,  p.  16,  etc.),  who  asserts  that  serpents  or  dragons  (Schlan- 
gen)  only  appear  in  later  Irish  ornament. 

The  various  triumphal  arches  erected  by  the  Romans  at 
Orange,  Vienne,  St.  Rcmy,  and  elsewhere,  are  abundantly  deco- 
rated with  sculpture  representing  arrangements  of  Gaulish  tro- 
phies and  spoils,  among  which  is  frequently  seen  the  boar  standard. 
Too^ether  with  these,  are  to  be  noticed  the  carnices  or  Gaulish 
trumpets  slightly  thickening  towards  their  upper  extremities, 
which  terminate  in  an  animal  head,  from  which  springs  a  crest 
extending  for  some  distance  down  the  tube.  These  objects  are 
represented  on  various  arches,  notably  those  at  Chavaillon  and 
St.  Remy,  with  veracious  uniformity  of  design.  It  seems  possible 
that  this  carnix  might  have  suggested  the  attenuated  dragons 
which  characterize  Celtic  art. 

With  regard  to  the  fabled  luminous  carbuncle  set  in  the 
drao:on's  head,  it  is  curious  to  note — that  the  brain  of  verte- 
brates includes  a  blunt  "  process,"  the  pineal  gland,  w^hich,  unlike 
the  rest  of  the  brain,  is  hardened  by  a  kind  of  chalky  deposit. 
''  Throughout  the  lacertilia  it  is  much  prolonged,  and  in  some  it 
ends  externally  in  an  eye  with  a  well-marked  lens  and  retina 
which  lie  just  within  an  apertu^-e  of  the  skull  known  as  the 
parietal  foramen.  "Whether  in  lizards  this  is  in  any  way  an 
organ  of  vision  is  doubtful.  The  eye  is  covered  by  a  scale 
very  different,  however,  from  the  surrounding  scales  ;  but  even 
when  this  is  sufficiently  thin  to  be  translucent,  it  is  improbable 
the  eye  is  of  any  real  service.  The  point  of  interest,  however, 
is  that  structurally  the  eye  is  there,  even  if  functionally  it  is 
valueless.  In  many  forms  lower  than  the  vertebrates  this  median 
eye  is  met  with,  sometimes  as  the  sole  organ  of  vision  throughout 
life,  sometimes  supplemented  by  paired  eyes  after  passing  from 
the  embryonic  to  the  adult  state,  and  there  are  cases  in  which 
after  the  paired  eyes  are  developed  the  median  eye  is  lost. 
From  the  relatively  large  size  of  the  parietal  foramen  in  some  of 
the  huge  fossil  reptilia,  there  is  little  doubt  they  had  effective 
median  eyes.  In  living  forms  which  have  been  studied  this  eye 
is  always  at  the  end  of  a  prolongation  of  that  part  of  the  brain, 
which  differing  in  length  in  other  vertebrates,  is  the  short  and 
blunt  pineal  gland  in  man.  In  the  language  of  embryologists  man 
has  either  an  undeveloped  or  a  degenerate  gland  which  elsewhere 
is   developed  into   a  Median  eye  with  lens  and  retina,  and  the 


456  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

essentials  of  what  we  call  an  ordinary  eye.  Whether  this  fact 
has  any  real  connection  with  the  old  Greek  and  still  existing 
Oriental  traditions  or  not,  can  be  only  matter  of  conjecture. 
Possibly  as  regards  the  Brahminic  trinity  the  successive  incarna- 
tions of  Vishnu  may  afford  some  clue.  He  may  very  reasonably 
be  supposed  when  in  the  form  of  a  reptile  to  have  had  a  median 
eye,  and  as  the  traditions  existed  long  before  written  history,  it 
is  impossible  to  trace  how  in  oral  handing  down  they  became 
modified,  and  Brahm,  Vishnu,  and  Siva  became,  as  they  often  are, 
so  confused.  The  Cyclopes,  too,  were  not  mortals.  They  had  a 
god  origin.  Probably  the  tradition  which  we  see  spread  from 
Greece  to  Japan  had  some  common  source  in  the  far  remote  past." 
See  Saturday  Review,  No,  1633,  p.  229,  in  reference  to  a  lecture 
delivered  by  Mr.  Baldwin  Spencer  at  the  Royal  Institution. 
Respecting  the  luminosity  of  carbuncles,  see  note,  infra,  p.  473, 
and  vol.  ii.  p.  22. 

The  Chinese  have  a  dragon  of  the  sea  called  Li;  there  is 
peculiar  "  go  "  and  ferocity  in  their  dragon  rageur.  They  have, 
besides,  the  sacred  celestial  dragon,  and  the  mountain  dragon. 
The  five-clawed  dragon  is  the  attribute  of  the  imperial  dynasty 
including  the  princes  of  first  and  second  rank,  the  four-clawed  of 
the  princes  of  the  third  and  fourth  rank.  The  imperial  Japanese 
dragon  has  three  claws. 

See  Migne,  Dictionnaire  des  Legendes,  Superstitions,  etc., 
art.  Tarasque,  F.  Liebrecht,  Zur  Volkskunde,  pp.  26,  66. 

Round  Table  (p.  144). 

For  particulars  on  the  Round  Table^  see  Obras  Escogidas  de 
Mich.  Cervantes  por  Garcia  d'Arieta,  Paris,  1826,  tom.  ii.  p.  344; 
Viardot,  Trad.de  Don  Quixote,  Paris,  1838,4  tom.  i.  p.  170;  Owen, 
Cambr.  Biogr.,  p.  14  ;  Michel,  Tristan,  tom.  ii.  p.  184  ;  Leroux  de 
Lincy,  Anal,  du  Brut.,  tom.  ii.  p.  162,  etc.  The  Round  Table  was 
subsequently  restored  at  Kenilworth  by  Earl  Roger  Mortimer  for 
one  hundred  knights  (see  Notes  to  Drayton's  "  Heroic  Epist.  Morb. 
Isabel,"  V.  53),  and  by  Edward  III.  at  Windsor  for  tAventy-four 
knights  (see  Th.  Walsingham,  Hist,  brevis  Anglise  ab.  Ed- 
uardo  I.  ad  Hen.  V.,  Lond.,  1574,  fol.,  p.  117;  but  the  wi'iter 
denies  the  existence  of  a  previous  one.  See  Dahlman,  For- 
schungen,  Bd.  i.  p.  249  ;  Ferrario,  tom.  ii.  p.  299,  etc.).  There  is, 
or  was  till  recently,  a  so-called  Arthur's  round  table  preserved  at 


MERLIN.  457 

Wiiiolieiiter.  Le  deuise,  leggi  ed  armi  de'  Cavalieri  della  Tavula 
r(»tunda  ;  and  Alamanni,  preface  to  his  edition  of  Girone  il  Cortesi, 
also  Ulrioh  Fuerterer  in  bis  Cyclns  vom  Graal,  ed.  by  v.  Docen  in 
the  X.  litt.  Anz.,  1808.  "  The  Anncient  order,  Societie  and  unite 
land  noble  of  Prince  Arthur  and  his  knightly  armory  of  the  Round 
Table,  Trans,  and  Coll.  by  R.  Robinson,"  London,  1583-4  (see 
Brydges,  Bibliogr.,  o.  t.,  vol.  i.  p.  125,  etc.),  is  only  a  translation 
of  the  Devise  des  amies  des  Chevaliers  de  la  Table  ronde.  Paris, 
s.a.,  Lyon.  1590;  Graesse,  Lehrbuch,  Bd.  ii.,  Abth.  iii.  p.  149. 
See  also  Wiener  Jahrbiicher,  etc.,  Bd.  xxix.  p.  85,  where  there 
is  a  reference  to  a  round  table  of  Theodoric. 

King  Arthur,  in  reference,  doubtless,  to  his  Round  Table,  was 
also  adopted  in  some  of  the  towns  under  the  sway  of  the  Teutonic 
order,  as  the  patron  of  the  convivial  clubs  of  the  upper  classes. 
Witness  the  Artuslwf  ^t  Danzig,  erected  in  1370,  consumed  by 
fire  at  the  close  of  the  succeeding  century,  and  rebuilt  in  1552. 
There  was  an  analogous  club  house  also  called  Artushof  at  Thorn. 
King  Arthur,  curiously  enough,  figures  side  by  side  with  Theo- 
doric and  Maximilian  among  the  twenty-eight  bronze  statues  of 
the  House  of  Hapsburg  at  Innsbruck,  and  a  design  for  another 
statue,  preserved  in  manuscript  in  the  Vienna  Imperial  Library, 
bears  the  description  of  Arthur  as  "  Kunig  zu  Enngellandt  und 
grave  zu  Habsburg  "  (King  of  England  and  Earl  of  Hapsburg). 
In  the  Summer  Sessions  Hall  of  the  Danzig  Town  Council  is 
a  picture  by  Isaac  von  dem  Blocke  (1611),  a  dying  father  in- 
culcating upon  his  sons  the  strength  of  unity — the  father  being 
represented  as  King  Arthur. 

Merlin  (p.  146). 

It  has  been  too  long  the  fashion  to  consider  the  names  and 
personages,  the  essential  incidents  and  legendary  motives  in  the 
romances  of  the  Round  Table  as  exclusively  Celtic,  and  this 
view  is  still  upheld  by  such  writers  as  Hersart  de  la  Villemarque, 
San  Marte,  Skene,  and  Glennie.  Recently  some  authoritative 
voices  have  been  raised  against  this  extreme  position,  e.g.,  Zarncke, 
Holtzmann,  Xash,  Stephens,  Wright,  Arbois  de  Jubainville, 
though  Liebrecht,  Holland,  Bartsch,  Renan,  Quinet,  Henri 
Martin,  Carriere,  maintain  the  Celtic  view.  Professor  Vesse- 
lovsky  thinks  it  probable  that,  on  whatever  soil  jNIerlin  was  first 
associated  with  the  Celtic  legends   of  Arther,  Uter-Pendrairon, 


458  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

etc.,  the  apocryphal  story  of  Solomon  and  Martolf  was  known 
there,  and  the  latter  name  m  some  form,  which  may  easily  have 
been  changed  into  Merlin. 

"  Gnillanme  de  Xewbrige"  [?  Xewburgh,  according  to  de  la 
Villemarque's  assertion,  which  I  have  not  succeeded  in  verifying], 
"  an  donzieme  siecle,  a  presque  conserve  la  forme  archai'que,  qu'il 
rend  en  latin  par  Martinus,'"  which  approaches  more  nearly  to  the 
old  Breton  Marthin,  modem  Breton  Marzin^  than  to  Myrtin  or 
Myrdhin,  of  the  ancient  and  modern  Welsh.  In  Scotland  the  name 
is  pronounced  Meller  or  Melziar.  The  form  Merlinus^  adopted 
by  Geoifrey  of  Monmouth,  became  Merlin  in  the  French  ro- 
mances, Mellin  in  the  Seven  Sages,  and  Melinus  in  the  Life  of  St. 
Patrick.  (See  Hersart  de  la  Villemarque,  Myrdhinn  (Paris, 
1862,  pp.  3,  4).  Professor  Vesselovsky  adduces  some  other  cir- 
cumstances in  favour  of  his  theory.  In  a  Latin  version  of  Solo- 
mon and  Morolf,  Marcolf  has  the  epithet  hinto.  •  The  oldest 
popular  version  of  the  story,  Proverbes  de  Marcoul  et  de  Sale- 
mon,  is  the  work  of  Pierre'  y  Mauclerc,  li  quens  de  Bretagne 
(ob.  1250).  (See  Crapelet,  Proverbes  et  dictons,  p.  167-200.) 
In  Elie  de  Saint- Giles,  the  first  redaction  of  which  is  considered 
anterior  to  the  thu'teenth  century  (Hist.  Lit.  de  la  France, 
xxii.).  there  is  an  allusion  to  the  abduction  of  Solomon's  wife 
narrated  in  Solomon  and  Morolf,  and  the  names  of  Arthur, 
Gauvain,  and  Mordret  also  occur.  The  same  episode  is  com- 
memorated under  the  name  of  Morold  at  the  end  of  Lancelot,  in 
the  reproduction  of  the  romances  by  Fiirter  at  the  end  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  There  is,  finally,  evidence  that  if  Merlin  and 
Morolf  are  not  interchangeable,  stories  of  them  were  looked  on 
as  cognate.  Arnold  de  Guisnes  (ob.  1220),  Chronique  de 
Guisnes  et  d'Ardres,  par  Lambert,  cure  d'Ardres  (918-1203),  ed. 
par  le  Marquis  de  Godefroy  Menilglaise,  Paris,  Renouard  (1855, 
c.  xevi.,  p.  215-17),  had  "  cognatum  suum  Walterum  de  Clusa 
nominatum,  qui  de  Anglorum  gestis  et  fabulis,  de  Gormundo  et 
Isembardo,  de  Tristanno  et  Hisolda,  de  Merlino  et  Merchulfo,  et 
de  Ardentium  gestis  .  .  .  diligenter  edocebat."  Mr.  Vesselovsky 
goes  so  far  as  to  say  (p.  305),  "  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
whole  legend  of  Merlin  is  based  upon  the  apocryphal  history  of 
Solomon,"  and  further  (p.  331),  "Our  comparison  of  Merlin  with 
Asmodeus-Kitovras  and  the  type  of  Morolf  has  shown  us  that 
the  legend  of  Merlin  is  more  archaic  than  the  German  poem  of 
Solomon  and  Morolf,  and  more  nearly  approaches  the  Talmudic- 


MITRLIN.  459 

Slavonic  legend."  A.  Vesselovsky,  "  Iz  istorii  literaturnavo 
obstchenia  vostoka  i  zapada.  Slavianskaia  Skazania.  Solomonye 
i  kitovrase  i  zapadnya  legendy  o  Marolfe  i  Merline."  St.  Peters- 
burg, 1872.  On  the  word  Marcolf,  .see  F.  Liebrecbt,  Zur 
Volkskunde,  pp.  34G-348.  These  conclusions  are  supported  by 
deep  and  varied  erudition,  and  numerous  parallelisms,  which 
there  is  here  no  space  to  reproduce,  but  can  hai'dly  be  regarded 
as  proved. 

P.  154. 

Merlin's  visit,  in  the  form  of  a  stag,  to  the  palace  of 
Julius  Csesar,  led  to  the  interpretation  of  that  ruler's  dream, 
in  which  he  had  seemed  to  see  a  crowned  sow  and  twelve 
young  lions,  which  he  caused  to  be  burned.  The  stag  tells 
Caesar  that  it  can  be  interpreted  only  by  a  savage.  Ca?sar  offers 
his  daughter  in  recompense  to  him  who  shall  secure  the  desired 
wild  man  of  the  woods,  under  which  form  Merlin  reappears 
before  the  assembled  court.  He  laughs  upon  perceiving  the 
empress  with  her  twelve  ladies  in  waiting,  and  explains  to  the 
emperor  that  the  sow  is  the  empress,  and  the  lions  her  twelve 
attendants,  men  disguised  in  female  attire.  The  thii'teen  are 
consigned  to  the  flames.  Liebrecht  compares  this  with  the  story 
of  Vai-aruchi  (Somadeva,  ed.  Brockhaus,  Bd.  i.  p.  35).  One  day 
King  Yogananda  in  a  fit  of  jealousy  ordered  the  execution  of  a 
Brahmin  with  whom  he  had  seen  his  wife  converse.  On  the  way 
to  the  place  of  execution,  a  fish  which  was  already  dead,  and  was 
exposed  for  sale  in  the  market-place,  laughed  aloud.  The  king 
hearing  of  this  marvel  stopped  the  execution,  and  asked  the 
reason  of  the  fish's  laughter.  The  Brahmin,  like  Merlin,  did  not 
at  once  explain,  but  only  after  an  absence,  wherein  he  received 
preternatural  information  that  all  the  king's  wives  led  licentious 
lives,  for  there  were  in  the  palace  a  number  of  young  men  dis- 
guised as  women.  Benfey  cites  the  Indian  source  of  the  story 
in  the  Sukasapti  (it  also  occurs  in  the  Persian  Tutinahmeh),  which 
is  in  its  essential  points  the  same  as  Xo.  36  of  Basile's  "  Pen- 
tamerone,"  and  Straparola's  (iv.  1)  "  The  Princess  as  Knight." 
The  story,  as  given  in  Merlin,  and  in  Straparola's  "  Xights,"  is, 
remarks  Benfey,  truer  to  the  Indian  original  than  the  Turkish 
version.  The  fifth  story  of  the  Sukasapti  (according  to  the 
Greek  version  of  D.  Galanos,  Athens,  1851)  relates  that  there 
was  in  the  city  of  Uddschayini  a  king,  Vikramaditya,  who  re- 


460  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

marked  one  clay  as  lie  breakfasted  with  his  much  loved  wife 
Kamalila,  that  she  refused  to  touch  some  broiled  fish  of  the  male 
sex  which  he  offered  her,  whereupon  the  fish  burst  out  laughing, 
so  loud  that  all  the  citizens  heard  them.  The  king  applied  for 
an  explanation  to  the  Chief  Brahmin  Purohita,  who  begged  for  a 
delay  of  five  days,  during  which  his  daughter  admonished  him  to 
take  her  to  the  king,  to  whom  after  repeatedly  advising  him  not 
to  inquire,  she  said  :  "  It  is  unmeet  thou  ask  wherefore  the  fishes 
laughed,  for  the  king,  who  is  like  to  God,  resembleth  not  another 
man  .  .  .  Wherefore  then  dost  thou  not,  thyself,  seek  the 
reason,  O  king  .  .  .  yet  since  it  is  thy  will  to  hear  from  another, 
hear  then,  O  king  !  This  most  chaste  Queen  says  she  cannot  so 
much  as  touch  roasted  fish  because  they  are  of  the  male  sex  ; 
that  is  why  the  fishes  themselves  laughed  so  loud.  Xow  consider 
closely  the  meaning  of  these  words  !  "  When  Balapandita  saw 
that  the  king  did  not  perceive  the  import  of  her  speech  she  re- 
turned home.  But  as  the  king  could  not  sleep  for  anxiety  to 
know  it,  he  sent  for  Balapandita  again,  who  after  being  pressed 
by  the  king  repeatedly  for  the  explanation,  asked  him,  "  Where- 
fore is  Pushpahdsa  the  prime  minister  wrongfully  in  prison  ? " 
The  king  answered,  "  When  formerly  this  PusJipahasa  laughed 
(verb  has)  at  my  council  board,  a  quantity  of  fiowers  (jmshpa) 
fell  out  of  his  mouth.  This  story  spread  through  the  realms  of 
the  kings  ;  and  the  latter  sent  sagacious  men  to  investigate  the 
marvel.  When  these  arrived,  however,  he  did  not  laugh,  nor 
shed  any  flowers  from  his  mouth,  and  therefore  it  is  that  he  has 
been  imprisoned."  .  .  .  Balapandita  enjoins  the  king  to  ask  why 
Pushpahasa  did  not  laugh,  and  why  the  fishes  did.  Pushpahasa 
replies :  "  I  had  at  the  time  attained  the  certainty  that  my  wife 
had  been  seduced  by  a  man,  and  for  this  grief  I  laughed  not." 
Hearing  this  the  king  struck  the  cjueen  with  a  flower  and  said, 
"  Dost  thou  hear  ?  "  But  she  apparently  swooned  from  this  blow 
of  a  flower.  When  Pushpahasa  saw  the  queen  in  this  condition 
he  laughed,  and  a  quantity  of  flowers  dropped  from  his  mouth. 
When  the  queen  had  come  to  herself,  the  king  in  anger  asked 
Pushpahasa,  "  Why  hast  thou  laughed  over  my  grief  and  di-opped 
so  many  flowers  ?  "  Who  replied  :  "  The  queen  did  not  faint 
last  night,  though  she  received  many  blows  from  her  gallants 
with  whom  she  played,  yet  to-day  she  faints  ftom  the  blow  from 
a  flower,  therefore  laughed  I."  "  Hast  thou  seen  or  heard  that  ?  " 
demanded  the  king  full  wroth,  and  was  answered,  "  If  the  king 


MERLIN.  461 

doth  not  believe  me,  let  him  take  otf  her  dress  and  convince 
himself."  He  did  so,  and  recognized  the  truth  by  the  marks  of 
blows,  and  upon  search  being  made  her  lover  was  found  in  a 
coffer.  See  the  observations  of  Liebrecht  and  Benfey,  Orient 
and  OccideDt,  Jahrg.  I.,  Heft.  2,  pp.  341,  etc. 

P.  149. 

The  incident  of  sprinkling  the  foundation  stone  witli  blood 
(p.  149)  would  seem  to  be  connected  with  the  practice  of  assur- 
ing the  stability  of  a  new  edifice  by  the  sacrifi(;e  of  a  human  (or 
other)  victim.  One  of  St.  Columba's  companions  offered  himself 
for  this  purpose.  Pinkerton's  "  Voyages,"  iii.  p.  298.  "  In 
Africa,  in  Galam."  writes  Mr.  Tylor,  in  Primitive  Culture,  i.  p.  96, 
"  a  boy  and  gii-1  used  to  be  buried  alive  before  the  great  gate  of 
the  city  to  make  it  impregnable,  a  practice  once  executed  on  a 
large  scale  by  a  Bambaara  tyrant."  For  further  notes  on  this 
"  Foundation  Sacrifice,"  see  G.  L.  Gonmie,  Folk-Lore  Relics  of 
Early  Village  Life  ;  London,  1833.  See  also  the  story  of  the 
founding  of  the  Monastery  of  Argis  in  K.  Xyrop's  "  Homanske 
IMosaiker,  Kulturbilleder  fra  Rumaenien  og  Provence.  Copen- 
hagen, 1885;  but  especially  Liebrecht,  Zur  Volkskunde,  pp.  284- 
296  (Die  Vergrabenen  ^lenschen),  who  cites  numerous  examples, 
recent  as  well  as  ancient,  of  the  persistence  and  prevalence  of  the 
custom  of  burning  human  beings,  generally  alive,  to  assure  the 
stability  of  the  building  erected. 

Pp.  146,  147,  155. 

The  belief  in  children  begotten  by  a  human  being  and  a 
spiritual  or  some  non-human  creature  is  by  no  means  extinct.  I 
know  an  old  "West  of  L-eland  woman  who  fii-mly  believes  two  of 
her  acquaintance  to  be  daughters  of  a  mermaid  who  disappeared 
one  day  upon  discovering  where  her  human  husband  had  hidden 
her  mantle.     Luther  records  the  belief. 

"  Eight  years  since,"  he  writes,  "  I  did  see  and  touch  at 
Dessau  a  changed  child,  which  was  twelve  years  of  age  ;  he  had 
his  eyes  and  all  members  like  another  child.  He  did  nothing  but 
feed  and  would  devour  as  much  as  two  threshers.  It  cried  upon 
being  touched,  and  laughed  with  joy  when  any  evil  happened  in 
the  house,  and  was  sad  when  things  went  well.  I  told  the  Prince 
of  Anhalt,  if  I  were  prince  of  that  country  I  would  cause  it  to  be 


462  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

drowned  in  the  Moldau.  I  exhorted  the  people  to  pray  that  God 
would  remove  the  devil :  this  was  done  and  in  the  second  year 
after  the  changeling  died, 

"  Near  Halberstadt,  in  Saxony,  lived  a  man  who  also  had  a 
Kielkropf  (i.e.  oaf  or  changeling),  who  was  fed  by  the  mother 
and  five  other  women,  and  besides  devoured  very  much.  The 
father  was  advised  to  promise  the  Kielkropf  to  the  Blessed  Virgin 
;Mary  ...  as  he  was  carrying  the  changeling  in  a  basket  over  a 
bridge,  another  devil  that  was  below  in  the  river  called  '  Kielkropf, 
Kielkropf ! '  Then  the  child,  which  had  never  spoken  before,  re- 
plied, '  Ho,  ho  ! '  The  devil  in  the  water  asked  further,  '  AVhither 
art  thou  going  ?  '  and  the  child  in  the  basket  replied, '  I  am  going 
to  be  rocked  at  Hochlestad.'  Hereupon  in  terror  the  man 
threw  the  child  over  the  bridge,  and  the  two  devils  flew  away 
together,  and  cried,  '  Ho,  ho,  ho,'  tumbling  one  over  another,  and 
vanished.  Such  changelings  and  Kielkropfs  Satan  substitutes  in 
the  place  of  true  children  :  for  he  has  power  to  change  children, 
putting  devils  instead  in  their  cradles.  Such  changelings  feed 
but  do  not  prosper,  and  do  not  live  above  eighteen  or  nineteen 
years." — Luther,  Colloquia  Mensalia.  A  very  similar  story  is 
given  in  K.  Schiller's  "  Thier  und  Krauterbuch  des  Mecklen- 
burgischen  Volkes,"  iii.  39. 

According  to  the  Talmud,  Adam  begat  Seth  at  the  age  of  one 
hundred  and  thu-ty  years,  whereon  is  the  comment :  "  All  those 
years  which  Adam  spent  in  alienation  from  God,  he  begat  evil 
f?pirits,  demons,  and  fairies  ;  for  it  is  said,  '  And  Adam  was  an 
hundred  and  thirty  years,  and  begat  a  son  in  his  own  likeness, 
after  his  image ; '  consequently,  before  that  time  he  begat  after 
another  image." — Eruvin,  fol.  18,  col.  2. 

See  P.  Paris,  Romans,  i.  p.  57  ;  Geoff.  Mon.,  Vita  Merlini,  v. 
780  ;  Apuleius,  Demon  Socrat. ;  Augustine,  Civitas  Dei,  xv.  ; 
Goerres,  Mystik,  Incubi ;  Ca^sarius  Heist.  Mirac.  et  Hist.,  1.  3, 
c.  10,  11,  12. 

Pp.  154, 146. 

The  title  of  this  rare  romance  of  Merlin  is  : — 

Sensuyt  le  pmier  volume  de  Merlin.  Qui  est  le  premier  liure 
de  la  Table  ronde.      Auec  plusieurs  choses  moult  recreatiue. 

P.  le  Noir  a  lenseigne  de  la  Rose  blanche  couronnee,  Paris, 
1528,  4to. 

The  following  may  also  be  noted :  — 


THE    GRAAL.  463 

Le  Roman  de  Merlin  renchanteur.  Remis  en  bon  Franeais  et 
dans  nn  meillenr  ordre,  par  S.  Boulard.     Paris,  1797.      16°. 

Merlin  Tenchanteur  [modern  rifacimento]  by  E.  Quinet. 
•2  tom.      Paris,  1860. 

Merlin,  or  the  early  history  of  King  Arthur,  a  prose  romance. 
With  an  essay  on  Arthurian  localities,  by  J.  S.  S.  Stuart  Glennie, 
Published  by  the  Early  English  Text  Society.      1869. 

Surtees,  S.  F.     Merlin  and  Arthur,  an  essay,  1871,  etc. 

Die  Sagen  von  Merlin  ...  by  San  Marte  (A.  Schulz).  Halle, 
1853,  8°.     A  critical  study. 

A.  Vesselovsky,  Slavianskia  Skazania  o  Solomene  i  Kitovrase  i 
zapadnya  legeudy  o  Morolfe  i  Mereine,  St.  Petersburg,  1872. 

The  Graal  (p.  159,  etc.). 

When  the  Crusaders  captured  Caesarea  in  1101,  Guglielmo 
Embriaco,  at  the  head  of  the  Genoese  contingent,  first  scaled  the 
wall  and  penetrated  into  the  city,  where  (Guliel.  Tyrius,  1.  x. 
c.  16  ;  Bracelleus,  De  Claris  Genuensibus,  fol.  xlvi.  661,  b.  6, 
and  other  historians),  he  took  from  a  temple  Avhich  had  been  dedi- 
cated by  Herod  to  Augustus  Caesar,  a  most  precious  vase,  which 
was  retained  by  the  Genoese  as  their  share  of  the  booty  (Paulus 
-Similius,  De  reb.  gest.  Fraucor.,  1.  v.,  p.  140,  ed,  Basle,  1601). 
It  was  believed  to  be  a  single  emerald,  and  in  this  circumstance 
consisted  the  value  and  wondrousness  of  the  object,  for  its  upper 
diameter  is  .326  millimetres,  its  height  being  90,  as  measured  by 
M.  C.  Rohault  de  Fleury,  who  describes  it  as  '*  a  flat,  saucer-like, 
hexagonal  dish  of  emerald-coloured  glass.  .  .  .  It  is  easy  to  see," 
he  adds,  "  that  having  been  cast  entire,  it  was  finished  with  the 
wheel."  See  C.  Rohault  de  Fleury's  "  Instruments  de  la  Pas- 
sion, etc.,"  Paris,  1870,  where  a  representation  of  the  vessel  is 
given.  This  sketch,  which  may  very  likely  have  been  made 
partly  from  memory,  or  under  inconvenient  cu'cumstances,  con- 
veys to  me  (I  examined  the  vase  in  the  spring  of  1886)  the  idea 
of  a  vessel  somewhat  shallower  and  more  depressed  than  the 
sacro  catino,  as  it  is  called.  On  the  other  hand  the  engraving 
in  Fra  Gaetano's  history  of  the  vase  errs,  I  think,  in  an  opposite 
direction.  In  a  private  letter,  M.  Georges  Rohault  de  Fleury, 
the  son  of  the  above,  writes  to  me,  "  II  est  assez  difficile  de  du-e 
quel  degre  d'authenticite  s'attache  a  cette  relique,  je  ne  fais  pas, 
quant  a  moi,  de  doute  que  ce  ne  soit  un  plat  antique ;  on  pent 


464  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

s'en  convaincre  en  le  comparant  au  catin  us  antique  dont  il 
reste  quelques  specimens."  See  also  Revue  Archeologique, 
Paris,  1845,  p.  149  ;  also  Millin,  in  the  Magas.  Encye.  Janvier, 
1807,  torn.  i.  p.  137,  etc. 

It  should  be  remembered  that,  as  far  as  can  be  gleaned  from 
Isidore,  Mandeville,  and  other  writers,  as  well  as  from  inventories 
of  treasures,  it  is  very  doubtful  whether,  until  quite  recent  times, 
the  difference  between  the  true  emerald  and  the  peridot  and 
other  green  translucent  stones,  was  imderstood  or  recognized. 
Mandeville  speaks  of  cups  and  dishes  of  emeralds,  sapphires, 
topazes,  and  other  precious  stones,  used  in  the  palace  of  Prester 
John. 

The  work  of  Fra  Gaetano  above  referred  to  is  an  extensive 
monograph,  published  in  1726  at  Genoa,  and  compiled  in  the 
conscientious  and  industrious,  but  uncritical  spu-it  of  an  earlier 
age.  Much  of  the  work,  however,  relating  to  the  preservation 
of  the  vase  is  reliable,  and  is,  indeed,  its  history  since  1101.  It 
can  scarcely  be  doubted  that  already,  before  the  capture  of 
Caesarea,  it  was  known  and  famous,  either  on  account  of  its 
supposed  material,  or  some  other  reason.  Possibly  the  Genoese, 
well  aware  of  the  prevalent  relic-hunger  of  the  age,  and  believing 
in  the  tradition  which  subsequently  became  publicly  attached  to 
the  vase,  may  have  given  out,  with  a  view  to  avoid  rival  claims, 
that  the  value  of  the  vase  consisted  merely  in  the  material. 
Certainly  it  was  only  at  a  later  period  that  the  tradition  became 
established  that  the  catino  had  been  used  at  the  Last  Supper  by 
Our  Lord,  its  substance  having  been  miraculously  changed  into 
emerald  (with  the  intent,  according  to  one  tradition,  to  impress 
Judas,  and  save  him  from  perfidy). 

J.  de  Yoragine,  Archbishop  of  Genoa  (1292-98,  hovwcirc.  1230), 
whose  compilation,  the  Golden  Legend,  has  procured  him  a  reputa- 
tion for  credulity,  expresses  himself  in  his  Chronicon  Januense, 
which  extends  to  a.d.  1277,  with  some  reserve  (cap.  viii.)  on  this 
subject : — "  That  this  vessel  is  really  of  emerald,  all  experts 
(Gemmarii)  who  have  seen  it  bear  witness  .  .  .  and  this  must  be 
so,  since  it  was  considered  at  Caesarea  to  be  worth  as  much  as  the 
whole  city,  or  the  whole  treasury  .  .  .  the  Genoese  would  not 
have  taken  it  as  their  share  of  the  spoil,  had  they  not  been  con- 
vinced that  it  was  a  most  rare  emerald.  Now  this  vessel  is 
fashioned  like  a  catimis,  and  hetice  it  is  commonly  said  that  it 
was  the  catinus  wherefrom  Christ  ate  with  his  disciples  at  the 


THE    GRAAL.  465 

Last  Supper,  and  whereof  he  said :  '  He  that  dippeth  his  hand 
with  me  into  the  catinus,  he  shall  betray  me.'  Whether  this  is 
true,  however,  we  do  not  know  .  .  .  and  he  who  should  refuse 
to  believe  is  not  to  be  blamed  for  temerity. 

"  Moreover,  it  should  not  be  overlooked  that  in  certain  books 
of  the  English  (Anglorum)  is  found  the  statement  that  when 
Nicodemus  took  down  Christ's  body  from  the  cross,  he  also  col- 
lected the  sacred  gore  which  was  still  moist,  and  which  had  been 
ignominiously  spilled  about,  in  a  certain  vessel  of  emerald  (vase 
emeraldmo)." 

AVhen  this  august  association  was  first  attached  to  the  Genuan 
sacro  catino  I  cannot  tell.  It  is  perhaps  worth  noting,  especially 
in  view  of  an  expression  of  Voragine's,  however  trivial  such  a 
link  may  be,  that  catinus  and  paropsis,  the  terms  most  frequently 
employed  by  the  Latin  Avriters  to  designate  this  vessel,  are  also 
those  used  in  the  A'ulgate  m  describing  the  Last  Supper.  There 
is  scarcely  an  ecclesiastical  historian  of  the  twelfth  century  but 
mentions  the  catino,  but  on  account  only  of  its  precious  sub- 
stance, and  not  the  sacred  tradition.  See  Ersch  and  Gruber, 
Encycl.  s.v.  Graal,  p.  lol.  Fra  Gaetano  gives  a  long  Hst  of 
writers  who  have  mentioned  the  catino. 

It  is  worth  notice  that  the  cup  of  the  romances  is  borne  upon  a 
cloth,  verdoiant  com  esmeraude.  (See  p.  479.)  In  the  miniatures 
of  one  manuscript  it  is  usually  painted  as  a  gold  chalice-shaped 
vase  with  cover,  resembling  a  ciborium,  the  modern  name  for  the 
vessel  in  which,  in  the  Latin  Church,  the  eucharist  is  conserved. 
In  one  instance  at  least,  however,  it  is  represented  as  an  escuele^ 
and  placed  on  the  table  together  with  the  ciborium-like  vase. 

As  for  the  word  g?rial,  several  etymologies,  none  of  them  com- 
pletely satisfactory,  have  been  proposed.  The  one  generally  pre- 
ferred is  cratella  (crater)  gradale,  South  French  grasal,  or,  with 
the  middle  consonant  elided,  graal. 

Besides  the  most  celebrated  Genuan  Catino,  several  other  tra- 
ditions of  Graal-Cups  were  current  in  the  middle  ages,  e.g.,  the 
large  silver  cup  "  calix  Domini,"  containing  a  sponge  said  to 
have  been  the  one  placed  to  the  lips  of  the  crucified  Redeemer 
(Adamnan  apud  Bedam,  De  locis  Sanctis,  ii.  cap.  2  par.). 

The  two  silver  vessels  containing  blood  fi-ora  Christ's  wounds 
brought,  according  to  a  tradition,  by  St.  Joseph  of  Arimathea  to 
Glastonbury,  and  there,  by  his  precept,  buried  with  the  body  of 
that  Saint,  whose  feast  was,  it  is  said,  observed  there  in  August 

I.  H  H 


466  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

instead  of,  as  usual  elsewhere,  in  March,  and  in  reference  whereto 
the  escutcheon  of  Glastonbury  was  a  cross  with  drops  and  two 
viols.  Spelman,  Capgrave,  W.  Good,  etc.,  apud  H.  P.  Cressy, 
The  Church  History  of  Brittany,  etc.,  Rouen,  1668,  fol.  book  ii. 
p.  19,  etc.  The  relic  of  Christ's  Blood,  received  in  pomp  by 
Henry  III.,  at  Westminster,  from  the  East,  and  contained  "  in 
quodam  vase  cristallino  venustissimo."  Oct.  13,  1247.  Matt.  Paris, 
sub  anno,  1247.  The  vessel  containing  some  of  the  sacred  gore 
from  Christ's  wounds,  with  a  hnife  which  had  been  used  to  collect 
the  same,  committed  by  Joseph  of  Arimathea  to  his  nephew 
Isaac,  and  borne  miraculously  over  sea  to  Xormandy,  and  there 
long  preserved  in  the  celebrated  Monastery  of  Fecamp,  where 
there  is  record  of  its  presence  in  1120.  Leroux  de  Lincy,  Essai 
historique  et  litteraire  sur  I'abbaye  de  Fecamp  ;   Rouen,  1840,  8". 

The  agate  chalice -shaped  cup  preserved  at  Valencia,  in  Spain, 
and  sometimes  seen  in  Spanish  paintings,  and  associated  with  St. 
Laurence.  J.  Briz  Martinez,  Historia  y  antiguedades  de  San 
Juan  de  la  Pena  y  de  los  Reyes  de  Sobrarve,  Aragon  y  Xavarra, 
SaragoQa,  1620,  p.  213,  and  Nota  de  las  Reliquias  existentes  in 
esta  santa  iglesia  metropolitana  de  Valencia,  1829,  p.  8. 

The  "  Sciphus  lapidis  Smaragdi,"  stated  to  have  been  preserved 
at  the  Monastery  of  He  Ste  Barbe,  near  Lyons,  the  foundation  of 
which  was  piously  attributed  to  Longinus  (from  Xoy^r/),  the 
soldier  who  had  pierced  the  side  of  Clirist  with  a  lance,  and  was 
afterwards  converted.  C.  de  Laboureur,  Les  Masures  de  I'Abbaye 
royale  de  I'lle  Barbe  de  Lyon.     Lyon,  1665,  p.  6,  etc. 

In  the  romance,  see  extract  appendix  2,  the  vessel  is  of  gold 
and  borne  upon  a  cloth  "  verdoiant  com  esmeraude."  The 
mention  of  the  bleeding  lance,  and  especially  of  the  human 
head  (see  extract)  borne  by  one  of  the  angels,  which  seems 
an  incongruous  interpolation,  has  been  thought  to  be  some 
obscured  reminiscence  of  a  pagan  Celtic  tradition,  perhaps  of 
human  sacrifice  (see  the  story  of  Peredur  ap  Evrawc  (i.e. 
Eboracum  or  York),  published  in  Lady  C.  Guest's  "Mabino- 
gion,"  and  notes),  others  again  have  referred  it  to  St.  John 
the  Baptist.  I  note  that  G.  Banchero  (II  Duomo  di  Genova, 
illustrato  e  descritto,  1855,  p.  208),  records  the  gift  in  1485, 
by  Innocent  VIII.,  a  Genoese,  of  an  agate  saucer  having  in 
the  centre  a  representation  in  white  enamel  of  the  head  of  the 
Saint,  and  which  was  intended  to  be  exposed  upon  the  Altar  of 
St.  John  Baptist  in  that  Cathedral  on  solemn  feasts,  and  "  There 


THE    GRAAL.  467 

were  not  wantiucr  authors  who  assert  that  this  was  the  phitter,  or 
discus  as  it  is  termed  by  the  Evangelist,  in  which  the  dancing  girl 
presented  the  Saint's  head  to  the  wicked  daughter  of  Herod." 
This  donation  is  of  too  late  a  date  to  have  influenced  the  romance, 
but  it  may  refer  to  some  previous  custom  observed  at  Genoa. 

Various  mythological  or  Christian  and  mystical  meanings  and 
associations  have  been  connected  with  the  bleeding  spear  (and 
nails).  See  G.  Malmesb.,  De  gest.  reg.  Anglor.,  lib.  ii. ;  apud 
Savile,  Rer.  Angl.  Scrip.,  p.  51  ;  Fr.  Michel,  Chanson  de  Roland, 
p.  193  ;  Chronique  de  P.  de  Mouskes,  ed.  ReifFenb.,  ii.  ex.  :  Nash, 
Taliesin,  p.  327  ;  Rohault  de  Fleury,  Instruments  de  la  Passion, 
pp.  274-0  ;  J.  H.  von  Seelen,  Memorabilium  Bremensium  Speci- 
men sen  de  Festo  Lanceje  et  Clavorum,  etc.,  Flensb.,  1715,  4to.  ; 
Greg.  Tur.  Gloria  Martyrum,  cap.  72  ;  Riant,  Exuviae  Constan- 
tinopolitanse,  ii.  p.  254 ;  Tobler,  p.  143  ;  Sir  G.  W.  Cox,  Intro- 
duction to  Mythology  and  Folklore,  pp.  332,  etc.,  ed.  1881. 

It  has  already  been  seen  what  an  important  element  early 
Eastern  Writings  and  Traditions,  not  perhaps  exclusively  Chris- 
tian, form  in  the  graal  story,  and  it  is  impossible  to  ignore  the 
striking  resemblance  which  an  essential  part  of  it  bears  to  the 
following  Eastern  legend  :  — 

"  But  the  more  wonders  Christ  performed  before  the  eyes  of 
the  people,  the  greater  was  their  unbelief;  for  all  that  they  were 
not  able  to  comprehend  they  believed  to  be  sorcery  and  delusion, 
instead  of  perceiving  therein  a  proof  of  his  divine  mission.  Even 
the  twelve  Apostles  whom  he  had  chosen  to  propagate  the  new 
doctrine,  were  not  stedfast  in  the  faith,  and  asked  of  him  one  day 
that  he  might  cause  a  table  covered  with  viands  to  descend  from 
heaven ! 

"  A  table  shall  be  given  you,"  said  a  voice  from  heaven,  "  but 
whosoever  shall  thereafter  continue  in  unbelief  shall  suffer  severe 
punishment." 

Thereupon  there  descended  two  clouds,  with  a  golden  table,  on 
which  there  stood  a  covered  dish  of  silver. 

Many  of  the  Israelites  who  were  present  exclaimed,  "  Behold 
the  Sorcerer  I  "What  new  delusion  has  he  wrought  ?  "  But  these 
scoffers  were  instantly  changed  into  swine.  And  on  seeing  it, 
Christ  prayed  :  "  Oh,  Lord,  let  this  table  lead  us  to  salvation,  and 
not  to  ruin !  "  Then  said  he  to  the  Apostles,  "  Let  him  who  is 
the  greatest  among  you  rise  and  uncover  this  dish."  But  Simon, 
the  oldest  Apostle,  said,  "  Lord,  thou   art  the  most  worthy  to 


468  SUPPLEMENTAKY    NOTES. 

behold  this  heavenly  food  first."  Christ  then  washed  his  hands, 
removed  the  cover,  and  said,  "  In  the  name  of  Allah  !  "  And  be- 
hold then  became  visible  a  large  baked  fish,  with  neither  bones 
nor  scales,  and  diflfused  a  fragrance  around  like  the  fruits  of 
Paradise.  Round  the  fish  there  lay  five  small  loaves,  and  on  it 
salt,  pepper,  and  other  spices.  "  Spirit  of  Allah,"  said  Simon, 
"  are  these  viands  from  this  world  or  from  the  other  ?  "  But 
Christ  rephed,  "  Are  not  both  worlds,  and  all  that  they  contain, 
the  work  of  the  Lord  ?  Receive  whatever  he  has  given  with 
grateful  hearts,  and  ask  not  whence  it  comes  !  But  if  the  ap- 
pearance of  this  fish  be  not  sufficiently  miraculous  to  you,  you 
shall  behold  a  still  greater  sign."  Then,  turning  to  the  fish,  he 
said,  "  Live !  by  the  will  of  the  Lord."  The  fish  then  began  to 
stir  and  to  move,  so  that  the  Apostles  fled  with  fear.  But  Christ 
called  them  back,  and  said,  "  Why  do  you  flee  from  that  which 
you  have  desired  ?  "  He  called  to  the  fish,  "  Be  again  what  thou 
wast  before !  "  and  immediately  it  lay  then  as  it  had  come  down 
from  heaven.  The  disciples  then  prayed  Christ  that  he  might  eat 
of  it  first ;  but  he  replied,  "  I  have  not  lusted  for  it :  he  that  has 
lusted  for  it,  let  him  eat  of  it  now."  But  when  the  disciples  re- 
fused to  eat  of  it,  because  they  now  saw  that  then-  request  had 
been  sinful,  Christ  called  many  aged  men — many  deaf,  sick,  blind, 
and  lame,  and  invited  them  to  eat  of  the  fish.  There  now  came 
thirteen  hundred,  which  ate  of  the  fish,  and  were  satisfied.  But 
whenever  one  piece  was  cut  ofi"  from  the  fish  another  grew  again 
in  its  place ;  so  that  it  still  lay  there  entire  as  if  no  one  had 
touched.  The  guests  were  not  only  satisfied  with  it,  but  even 
healed  of  all  their  diseases.  The  aged  became  young,  the  blind 
saw,  the  deaf  heard,  the  dumb  spoke,  and  the  lame  regamed  their 
vigorous  limbs.  When  the  Apostles  saw  this  they  regretted  that 
they  had  not  eaten ;  and  whoever  beheld  the  men  that  had  been 
cured  and  invigorated  thereby  regretted  in  like  manner  not  to 
have  shared  in  the  repast.  When,  therefore,  at  the  prayer  of 
Christ  a  similar  table  descended  again  from  heaven,  the  whole 
people,  rich  and  poor,  young  and  old,  sick  and  whole,  came  to  be 
refreshed  by  these  heavenly  viands.  This  lasted  durmg  forty 
days.  At  the  dawn  of  day  the  table,  borne  on  the  clouds,  de- 
scended in  the  face  of  the  sons  of  Israel ;  and  before  sunset  it 
gradually  rose  up  again.  But  as,  notwithstanding  this,  many  still 
doubted  whether  it  really  came  from  heaven,  Christ  prayed  no 
longer  for   its  return,  and  threatened  the  unbelievers  with  the 


THE    GRAAL.  469 

puuishment  of  the  Lord,"  etc. —  Weil,  Bible,  Koran  and  Talmud, 
pp.  226,  etc. 

There  are  other  circumstances  which,  perhaps,  further  connect 
the  Graal  story  with  the  East.  Borron,  with  other  knights  who  had 
taken  part  in  the  Crusades,  must  have  had  their  imaginations  im- 
pressed with  the  strange  and  mysterious  ceremonial  of  the 
Eastei-u  rites,  and  some  would  have  been  curious  to  acquaint 
themselves  with  their  meaning  and  thereby  obtam  a  knowledge  of 
the  liturgy.  Xow  in  the  prothesis — a  preparatory  rite  in  some 
liturgies — the  priest  pierces  the  right  side  of  the  bread  destined 
for  consecration,  saying :  "  One  of  the  soldiers  Avith  a  spear 
pierced  His  side  and  forthwith  came  thereout  Blood  and  Water," 
etc.,  Xeale's  '*  Liturgies,"  p.  182  ;  the  knife  used  for  this  purpose 
is  called  the  holy  lance,  ayia  Xoyx^-  This  utensil  was  also  known 
in  the  West.     See  Martigny,  Diet.  Ant.  Chi-et. 

Again,  in  the  Litm-gy  of  St.  Chrysostom,  "  After  the  Great 
Entrance  the  Priest  sets  down  the  chalice  on  the  holy  table,  and 
taking  the  holy  disc  from  the  hand  of  the  Deacon  he  places  it 
there  also,  saying :  '  Honourable  Joseph  took  thy  spotless  body 
from  the  cross,  and  wrapped  it  in  clean  linen  with  spices,  and 
with  funeral  rites  placed  it  in  a  new  tomb."  This  is  repeated, 
Neale,  Tetralogia  Liturgica,  p.  62.  These  rites  are  at  least  very 
suggestive  when  one  reads  the  graal  story. 

With  regard  to  the  Veronica  episode,  this  story  clearly  rests 
on  traditions  and  writings  of  remote  origin,  as  has  been  pointed 
out  in  the  text ;  the  same  belief  is  recorded  in  the  old  Ambrosian 
liturg}-,  which  is  of  high  antiquity,  on  the  old  feast  day  of  St. 
Veronica,  Feb.  4.  As  this  liturgy  has  been  reformed  to  some 
extent,  and  is  now  scarce,  it  may  be  worth  while  to  quote  in  extenso 
the  prefiice  fi-om  the  Ambrosian  Missal,  printed  at  Milan,  in  1475  : 
"  Eterne  deus  Qui  beatam  ueronicam  tua  caritate  plenam  igneo 
candore  tni  eterni  tlaminis  totaliter  accendisti.  Xam  et  semper 
xpm  de^^iderabat  uidere,  nee  poterat  sequi  propter  ipsius  senec- 
tute.  Cuius  xps  desideriu  agnoscens  et  uultum  fricauit,  et  ymago 
sui  in  sudario  remansit.  O  fides  miraculosa  o  laudabile  mira- 
culum,  que  filii  dei  in  terra  ymagines  monstrauit.  Que  beata 
ueronica  ut  sudariu  posuit  super  uoluxianii  curuii  eu  circa  tergum. 
Et  tyberiu  cesare  ad  fidem  conuertit  atque  sanii  a  lepra  mun- 
dauit.  Quesumus  ergo  dementia  tuam,  ut  in  tua  misericordia 
confidentes  nulla  nos  uitiorum  mala  procellant  sed  potius  exer- 
ceant  ad  salutem." 


470  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

According  to  the  variant  of  the  legend  in  the  Titurel  Romance, 
the  vessel  which  the  Saviour  used  at  His  Last  Supper,  was  borne 
away  to  heaven  by  angels,  pending  the  appearance  of  a  knightly 
organization  upon  earth  which  should  be  worthy  of  its  custody 
and  cultus.  Such  a  corporation  was  destined  to  be  founded  by 
the  Asiatic  prince  Perillus,  who  came  to  Gaul  and  allied  himself 
to  the  Armorican  chiefs,  and  Titurel,  his  descendant,  constructed 
for  the  reception  of  the  sacred  vase  a  shrine  upon  the  model  of 
Solomon's  temple.  The  vase  itself  was  visible  only  to  eyes  of 
the  baptized.  From  it  emanated  a  mystic  bliss,  a  foretaste  of 
heavenly  joy,  but  also  an  abundance  of  temporal  good  things. 
From  the  Graal  shrine,  the  guardians  were  called  templois. 
They  were  vowed  to  chastity,  and  enjoyed  many  supernatural 
privileges.  The  following  are  the  titles  of  editions  of  the  text 
of  the  romance,  or  of  critical  essays  upon  the  subject. 

L'hystoire  du  sainct  greaal  Qui  est  le  premier  liure  de  la  table 
ronde  lequel  traicte  de  plusieurs  matieres  recreatiues.  Ensemble 
la  queste  dudiet  sainct  greaal,  etc.     Paris,  1516-1523. 

The  History  of  the  Holy  Grail,  Englisht  by  Lonelich  .  .  . 
from  the  French  prose  ...  of  Sires  R.  de  Borron.  Published 
by  the  Early  English  Text  Society. 

Seynt  Graal,  or  the  Sank  Ryal.  The  history  of  the  Holy 
Graal,  by  Lonelich.  With  a  reprint  of  the  Romanz  de  I'estore 
dou  graal.     Published  by  the  Roxburghe  Club. 

Y  Seint  Greal.  Welsh  and  English  edition,  translated  by 
Rev.  Robert  Williams.      London,  1876.      8vo. 

Le  Saint-Graal,  ou  le  Joseph  d'Arimathie  premiere  branche 
des  Romans  de  la  Table  Ronde,  public  des  Textes  et  des  docu- 
ments inedits  par  Hucher.     3  tom.     Le  Mans,  1875-78.      12mo. 

Der  Prosaroman  von  Joseph  .  .  .  herausg.,  von  G.  Weidner. 
Leip.,  1881.      8vo. 

A.  Birch  Hirschfeld,  Die  Sage  vom  Gral,  ihre  Entwickelung  in 
Frankreich  und  Deutschland,  etc.      1877. 

A.  Sehulz,  Parcival-Studien.      Leipzig,  1861,  etc.      8vo. 

L.  Kraussold,  Die  Sage  vom  heiligen  Gral  und  Parceval. 
1878. 

F.  G.  Bergman,  The  San  Greal.     Edinburgh,  1870. 

Dashkevich,  Skazanie  o  Sviatom  Grale.     Kiev,  1877. 

San  Marte,  in  Ersch  and  Gruber's  "  Enoyclopiidie,"  art.  "  Gral.*' 


NAMES.  471 


Names  (pp.  164,  179). 

Mr.  Leitli  (on  the  Legend  of  Tristan,  p.  35),  gives  the  follow- 
ing enumeration  of  forms  of  name: — Isolde,  Yseus,  Yseutz, 
Yseut,  Yssenlz,  Izeutz,  Yseul,  Ysou,  Ysolt,  Isault,  Essyllt, 
Ysoue,  Ysenlt,  Iset,  Ysalde,  Yseuda,  Yzeiilt,  Iseulte,  Isot, 
Isodda,  Ysoude,  Ysonde,  Ysote,  Isond,  Isotta,  Iseo,  Isawde, 
Isowde,  Isod,  Isold,  Ysiaut,  and  Ysoud,  to  which  Hisolda  may  be 
added. 

Tristan,  Tristans,  Tristram,  Tristrans,  Tristant,  Tristran, 
Tritans,  Tritan,  Tristranz,  Tristanz,  Tritanz,  Tristrant,  Trys- 
trem,  Trystren,  and  Trustram. 

Mark,  March,  Marc,  Mars,  Brangwen,  Brangaene,  Brengain, 
Brangian,  Branwen,  Brangien,  Brangweyne,  Brangueyn,  Bran- 
gwyna,  Bragwaine,  Brangwin,  Brangwin,  Brangwain,  Rual,  Ro- 
hand,  Rhyhawd,  Morhoult,  INIorold,  Moraunt,  Marlot,  Morolt, 
Morhot,  Morogh,  Martholwch  (cf.  Marcolf). 

Bron  seems  to  Mr.  Leith  (on  the  Legend  of  Tristan,  p.  24), 
merely  a  corruption  of  bran.  Mr.  Leith,  however,  does  not  seem 
to  know  the  form  Hehrons,  which  also  occurs  in  the  Romance  texts 
(see  p.  164).  Bran  he  considers  is  the  original  Celtic  bird  of  rain  and 
lightning,  now  personified  as  a  male  in  Bran  the  Blessed,  now  as 
a  female  in  Branwen.  .  .  .  The  name  Bran  may,  on  the  one  hand,  be 
derived  from  the  Sanscrit  Bhuranyu,  by  the  not  unusual  suppres- 
sion of  the  first  vowel  and  of  the  affix.  As  the  root  Char  of 
Bhuranyu  shows  the  u  to  be  really  an  g,  the  older  Celtic  form 
would  thus  be  perhaps  Baran  (compounded  with  "ton"  hill,  in 
the  Breton  Bar  anion,  the  name  of  Ywain's  magic  fountain). 
Bhuranyu  is  a  compound  of  hhurana  {i.e.  bharana),  and  yu,  and 
signifies  literally  "  desirous  of  carrying.'''  Branwen's  rule  in  the 
Tristan  legend,  as  the  dispenser  of  the  magic  potion,  points  her 
out  as  the  feminine  personification  of  the  Aryan  cloud  bird.  On 
the  other  hand.  Bran  may  be  merely  the  Celtic  word  for  Raven. 

Lamorat,  one  of  the  principal  personages  in  the  prose  Tristan, 
is  mentioned  in  one  of  the  songs  of  the  Venetian  troubadour, 
Bartolomeo  Zorzi,  a  fact  which  shows  that  the  romance  was 
known  in  Italy  prior  to  1268.  See  Der  Troubadour  B.  Zorzi. 
Emil  Levy,  Halle,  Romania,  1884,  p.  483. 

Giglan,  Guinglain,  Gyngelayn,  Geynleyn,  Gynleyn  are  but  dif- 
ferent forms  of  the   Welsh  Winwaloen    (p.   263),    or   the    Bel 


472  SUPPLEMENTARY    NOTES. 

Inconnu,  in  the  old  French  ;  this  epithet  Ly  beauxs  desconnus  is 
found  metamorphosed  as  Lybiiis  Disconiiis,  Gifflet  ie  lils  Do,  of 
the  French  poem  of  Guinglain,  and  becomes  in  the  prose  Gyflroun 
le  fludous.     See  Komania,  Janvier,  1886,  pp.  5,  13. 

King  Arthur  (p.  229). 

In  the  twelfth  century,  Gervase  of  Tilbury  (Otia  Imperialia  Ed. 
Liebrecht,  p.  12)  was  told  by  the  natives  that  Arthur  was  im- 
prisoned in  Mongibel  (  =  Mount  Etna),  and  that  the  Bishop  of 
Catana's  groom  once  wandered  into  the  Arthurian  palace  in  search 
of  a  strayed  horse.  A  variant  of  the  legend  is  related  by  Caesarius 
Heisterbacensis,  The  Old  French  poem  of  Florian  et  Florete 
locates  the  marvellous  palace  of  Morgan  the  Fay  within  Etna. 
Alexander  N.  Vesselovsky,  Iz  Istorii  Romana,  etc.,  1886,  p.  117. 
See  also  G.  Pitre's  article,  Le  Tradizioni  Cavalleresche  Popolari 
in  Sicilia,  Romania,  1884,  p.  391.  The  classic  story  of  the 
Cretan  poet  Epimenides  who  is  fabled  to  have  slept  for  half  a 
century  in  a  cave,  will  recur  to  the  memory. 

MiLLES    ET    AmYS  (p.  318). 

Dr.  Paul  Schwieger  (Die  Sage  von  Amis  und  Amiles,  Berlin, 
Hayn,  1885)  approximates  the  history  of  Milles  and  Amys  to  that 
of  Siegfried  and  Gunther.  In  both  narratives  a  friend  (or  vassal) 
conquers  a  wife  for  his  friend  (or  lord)  by  replacing  him,  and  is 
afterwards  punished.  This  general  resemblance,  however,  hardly 
authorizes  the  inference  of  any  radical  connection  between  the 
two  stories.  The  episode  (p.  320)  of  the  leper  cured  by  the  blood 
of  the  children  sacrificed  for  the  purpose  by  the  friend  may  very 
probably  be  of  Eastern  origin,  and  may  have  been  transmitted 
through  some  Byzantine  channel.  It  has  been  associated  with 
two  persons,  of  whom  the  tombs  are  shown  at  Mortara,  in  Pied- 
mont (see  p.  317),  Romania,  No.  54,  Avi-il,  1885,  p.  318,  19.  The 
Anglo-Norman  Amis  and  Amiloun,  with  the  English  version,  have 
been  published  by  Eugen  Koelbing,  in  t.  ii.  of  the  Altenglische 
Bibliothek,  in  completion  of  his  work  published  in  1877,  and  re- 
ferred to  in  the  note,  p.  318,  Amis  and  Amiloun  zugleich  mit  der 
altfranzozischen  Quelle,  Heilbronn,  1884.  In  Juan  Timoneda's 
"  Patranuelo,"  No.  37,  an  only  son  is  sacrificed  to  save  a  friend's 
son. 


LUMINOUS    STONES.  473 


Luminous  Stones  (p.  408,  and  vol.  ii.  p.  22). 

A  power  of  emitting  light  seems  to  have  been  associated  from 
time  immemorial  in  the  East  with  certain  precious  stones,  notably 
the  carbuncle.  A  shining  stone  is  likewise  of  frequent  occurrence 
in  Russian  stories,  Afanasief  (Vozrenia,  iii.  800,  etc.)  remarks 
that  the  Russian  Alatuir  and  the  Greek  {jXetcrpoi'  are  derived  from 
a  common  root — Sanskrit,  ar-k  =  aX*:,  to  flash,  emit  rays. 
Raviratnaka  (precious  stone  dedicate  to  the  sun),  and  tarala 
(sparkling)  are  among  Indian  names  for  the  ruby.  See  note, 
vol.  ii.  p.  22.  The  stone  eyes  of  the  monumental  lion  in  the 
Piazzetta  at  Venice  were  believed  to  emit  light ;  and  Antony  of 
Novgorod  speaks  of  a  picture  painted  above  the  porta  para- 
disiaca  of  Sta.  Sophia,  representing  the  emperor  Leo  the  Wise, 
ha^-ing  upon  his  brow  a  precious  stone  which  at  night  illumi- 
nated the  whole  temple  with  its  brightness. 

Josephus  (Ant.  Jud.,  iii.  c.  8),  alludes  to  a  luminous  jewel  in 
the  dress  of  the  high  priest,  ^lian  mentions  a  light-emitting 
carbuncle,  indeed,  the  allusions  to  the  luminosity  of  this  stone 
are  very  numerous.  Many  will  be  found  in  W.  Jones's  "  Pre- 
cious Stones;  their  History  and  Mystery."  London.  1880. 
Roland  while  yet  a  youth,  as  the  legend  runs,  despoiled  the 
Ardennes  giant  of  a  gem  which  he  carried  in  his  buckler  and 
which  shone  like  the  sun,  and  inserted  the  sparkling  trophy  in 
his  father  Milon's  shield.  See  Warnke,  Pflanzen  in  Sitte,  Sage 
und  Geschichte.     Leipzig,  1878. 

The  idea  occurs  in  the  Roman  de  la  Rose. 

•■  A.  fyn  charboncle  sette  saugh  I 
The  stoon  so  clere  was  and  so  bright, 
That,  also  soone  as  it  was  nyght, 
]Men  myghte  seen  to  go  for  nede 
A  myle  or  two,  in  lengthe  aud  brede 
Sieh  lyght  tho  sprang  oute  of  the  stone 
That  Richesse  wondir  brighte  shone 
Bothe  hir  heed,  and  alle  hir  face 
And  eke  aboute  hir  al  the  plaie,'" 

and  in  Mandeville's  description  of  Prester- Johns  palace. 

"  And  alle  the  Pileres  in  his  Chambre,  ben  of  fyne  gold  with 
preciouse  Stones,  and  with  many  Carboncles,  that  zeven  gret  lyght 
upon  the  nyght  to   alle  peple.      And   alle  be  it  that  the   char- 


474  SUPPLEMENTARY   NOTES. 

boncle  zeve  Ijght  right  y  nowe,  natheless  at  all  tymes  brenneth 
a  vesselle  of  cristalle  fulle  of  Bawme,  for  to  zeven  gode  smelle 
and  odour  to  the  Emperour." 

In  Mandeville's  "  Grand  Lapidaire  "  (1561)  it  is  said :  "  Le 
rubis  est  appele  en  grec  Epiteste  ....  et  si  cette  pierre  est  au 
soleil  par  un  espace  de  temps,  elle  rendra  raies  rouges  comme 
du  feu."  Mr.  Dutens,  Member  of  the  Royal  Society,  in  his 
work  on  precious  stones,  published  in  1776,  says  that  the  ruby 
may  be  rendered  phosphorescent  by  exposing  it  for  several  hours 
to  the  solar  rays,  or  raising  it  to  a  red  heat  in  the  crucible. 

The  belief  in  the  luminosity  of  certain  stones  may,  perhaps,  in 
some  instances  have  arisen  from  their  high  refractive  power,  in 
other  cases  from  the  property  of  phosphorescing  for  a  considerable 
period  after  exposure  to  strong  light  or  heat,  which  characterizes 
certain  substances,  notably  the  sulphides  of  calcium,  barium,  and 
strontium.  In  the  case  of  the  celebrated  Bologna  stone  (sul- 
phide of  barium)  this  phenomenon  was  authentically  recorded  as 
early  as  1603,  and  caused  much  sensation.  In  his  Adamas 
Lucens,  Robert  Boyle  asserted  the  phosphorescent  power  of  the 
diamond,  which  was  confirmed  by  M.  Dufay  in  the  Memoire 
de  r Academic,  1730,  and  by  M.  Dutens  in  his  treatise  on  pre- 
cious stones  (1776).  M.  Edmond  Becquerel  (La  Lumiere,  etc. 
Paris,  1867,  vol.  ii.),  although  premising  (p.  207)  that  probably 
the  phosphorescence  of  precious  stones  was  not  early  observed, 
says  (p.  210)  he  had  observed  calcic  fluoride  and  two  white 
diamonds  to  phosphoresce  an  hour  after  exposure  to  solar  rays, 
and  again  (p.  348),  that,  roughly  speaking,  50  per  cent,  of 
diamonds  will  phosphoresce,  though  faintly,  for  over  an  hour's 
space  after  insolation.  The  duration  of  phosphorescence  in  the 
aluminous  compounds  (rubies,  carbuncles),  is,  however,  much 
less.  According  to  his  experiments  (p.  339),  it  hardly  exceeds 
_^  of  a  second,  and  can  only  be  observed  with  a  phosphoro- 
scope,  and  can  therefore  hardly  have  been  really  noticed  in 
previous  times. 

Virgil  s  Brazen   Archer  (vol.  i.  p.  433,  and  vol.  ii.  p.  22). 

Gervase  of  Tilbury,  in  his  Otia  Imperialia,  tells  a  story  of 
Virgil  (given  in  vol.  i.  p.  433,  supra),  essentially  the  same  with 
that  in  the  Gesta  Romanorum.  A  somewhat  similar  fiction  is  the 
story  of  Rosencreutz's  (the  founder  of  the  Rosicriicians)  Sepulchre, 


Virgil's  brazen  archer.  475 

given  by  Eustace  Budgell  in  a  contribution  published  in  the 
Spectator,  May  15,  1712,  imder  the  epigraph:  "Scire  tuum 
nihil  est,  nisi  te  scire  hoc  sciat  alter."  Pers.  Sat.,  i.  27.  The 
same  narrative  was  prefixed  to  the  English  edition  of  the  Abbe 
Villars'  "  Count  de  Gabalis."  In  this  instance  a  vault  is  dis- 
covered illuminated  by  a  lamp,  which  burned  before  a  figure 
seated  at  a  table,  clad  in  armour  and  grasping  a  truncheon. 
The  intruder  "  had  no  sooner  set  one  foot  within  the  vault,  than 
the  statue  erected  itself  from  its  leaning  posture,  stood  bolt  up- 
right, and  upon  the  fellow's  advancing  another  step,  lifted  up  the 
truncheon  in  his  right  hand.  The  man  still  ventured  a  third 
step,  when  the  statue,  with  a  furious  blow,  broke  the  lamp  into 
a  thousand  pieces,  and  left  his  guest  in  a  sudden  darkness."  It 
was  subsequently  found  that  the  efiect  had  been  produced  by 
mechanism.  "  Rosicrucius,  say  his  disciples,  made  use  of  this 
method  to  show  the  world  that  he  had  re-invented  the  ever- 
burning lamps  of  the  ancients,  though  he  was  resolved  no  one 
should  reap  any  advantage  from  the  discovery." 

Just  as  Verzhiulovoe  Kolo,  so  the  Welsh  fferylliaeth  (alchemy 
and  chemistry)  was  derived  from  Virgil,  the  Irish  Feargal  who  was 
referred  to  the  eighth  century,  and  stated  to  have  asserted  the 
existence  of  the  antipodes. 


APPENDIX. 

No.  1,  p.  152. 

Merlin. 

Quand  les  Chevaliers  et  Dames  et  Damoyselles  furent  arrivez, 
Dieu  salt  la  joye  que  le  Roy  leur  fist ;  et  s'en  vint  a  Ygiieme  et 
a  son  Mari,  et  les  fist  menger  en  sa  table,  et  fist  seoir  le  Due  de 
coste  lui.  Et  fist  tant  le  Roy  par  ses  paroles  que  Yguerne  ne  se 
peut  deffendre  quelle  ne  print  de  ses  jouyaulx,  tant  qu'elle  sceut 
bieu  de  vrai,  que  le  Roy  I'aimoit ;  et  apres  que  la  feste  fut  passee, 
cliascun  se  en  voulut  retouj-ner,  et  prinrent  congie  du  Roy.  Et 
le  Roy  leur  pria  qu'ils  revinssissent  tousjours,  ainsi  qu'il  leur 
avoit  commande  ;  si  luy  accorderent  chascun.  Si  endura  le  Roy 
cette  peine  d' amours  j  usques  a  long-temps.  Si  ne  peut  plus  en- 
durer  ce  martyre,  et  luy  convint  se  descouvrir  a  deux  des  plus 
privez  de  son  conseil,  et  leur  dit  I'angoisse  qu'il  souflfroit  pour 

Tamour   d'Yguerne. Et  quant  le  jour  de  la  feste  flit  venu, 

chascun  se  trouva  a  Cardeuil  avecque  leurs  appareils,  tant  Dames 
et  Damoyselles,  de  quoy  le  Roy  fut  moult  joyeux ;  et  quant  le 
Roy  sceut  que  chascun  fut  arrive,  et  le  Due  de  Tintaiel,  et  sa 
femme  Yguerne,  si  prist  sa  couronne,  et  se  presenta  devant  tons 
les  Barons  auxqueulx  il  donna  plusieurs  riches  jouyaulx,  et  aux 
dames  et  Damoyselles  aussi.  Et  quant  se  vint  a  la  table,  que 
chascun  fut  assis  pour  menger,  le  Roy  fut  moult  joyeux  et  lye. 
Si  park  a  ung  sien  conseiller,  auquel  il  se  fioit,  qui  fut  nomme 
Ulfin.  Et  lui  dist  que  I'amour  d'Yguerne  le  tuoit,  et  le  feroit 
mourir,  et  qu'il  ne  povoit  durer  s'il  ne  la  veoit,  et  que  quant  il 
en  perdoit  la  vue,  le  cueur  lui  meurdrissoit,  et  que  s'il  n' avoit 
remede  d'elle,  qu'il  ne  povoit  longuement  vivre.    Et  Ulfin  lui  re- 


MERLIN.  477 

spondit :  Sii-e,  cuideriez  vous  bien  mourir  pour  rainour  d'nne 
dame  ?  Saichez,  que  Je  iie  snis  que  ung  povre  Gentilbomme ; 
mais  Je  ne  ciiiderois  point  mourir  pour  Tamour  d'une  femme.  Car 
Je  ue  ouy  parler  de  femme  (pourveu  qu'elle  fiist  bien  requise) 
qui,  pour  ce  qu'on  luy  presente  plusieurs  dons,  ne  se  consentye  a 
la  voulente  de  celui  qui  la  requiert.  Et  toy  qui  es  Roy,  te 
esbabis  tu  comme  tu  pourras  avoir  1' amour  d'une  dame  !  II  semble 
que  tu  ayes  le  cueur  bien  couart  qui  n'oses  requirrir  une  dame 
d'aymer.  Et  le  Roy  luy  dist :  tu  ditz  vrai,  tu  sees  qu'il  convient 
a  telle  chose.  Si  te  prie  que  tu  m'aydes  en  toutes  les  manieres 
que  tu  poiuras.  Si,  prens  en  mon  tresor,  ce  que  tu  vouldras  pour 
lui  donner,  et  a  ceulx  et  a  celles  qui  sont  autour  d'elle ;  et  pense 
de  taire  a  chascun  son  plaisir,  et  va  parler  a  Yguerne.  Et  Ulfin 
respondit :  Je  sauray  bien  faire  ce  que  m'avez  commande.  Ainsi 
tint  la  court  huit  jours  en  grant  joye,  et  avoit  le  Roy  tousjours  a 
sa  compaignie,  et  lui  donna  de  moult  riches  jouyaulx,  et  a  ses  com- 
pagnons  aussi.  Et  Ulfin  s'en  alia  parler  a  Yguerne,  et  luy  dist  ce 
qu'il  convenoit  a  pai'ler  d'amours,  et  luy  porta  plusieurs  beaulx 
jouyaulx,  et  riches.  Et  jamais  Yguerne  n'en  voulut  riens ;  taut 
qu'il  advint  ung  jour  que  Yguerne  tira  Ulfin  a  conseil  a  une  part, 
et  luy  dist. — Ulfin,  pourquoi  me  ofFres  tu  tant  de  si  beaulx  jou- 
yaulx ?  Et  Ulsius  respondit ;  pour  le  grant  sens  et  belle  conte- 
nance  que  Je  voy  en  vous,  votre  grant  beaulte.  Et  saichez  que 
tout  I'avoir  de  ce  Royaume  est  a  vous ;  et  tons  les  gens  aussi  sout 
a  faire  vostre  plaisir  et  vostre  voulente.  Et  elle  respondit :  com- 
ment sais  tu  ce  ?  Et  il  respondit :  Dame  vous  avez  le  cueur  de 
celuy  a  qui  est  le  Royaume.  Et  elle  dist ;  qui  est  le  cueur  ? 
C'est  le  cueur  du  Roy,  dist  il.  Comment  ?  dist  elle ;  le  Roy  a  le 
cueur  bien  felon  et  bien  traitre  de  monstrer  a  monseigneur  si  grant 
semblant  qu'il  I'aime,  si  il  me  veult  trahir  et  deshonnourer ;  Je  te 
diray,  Ulsius  gardes  sur  ta  vie  que  jamais  tu  ne  me  paries  de 
tieulx  parolles,  que  bien  saiches  que  Je  le  dirois  au  Due,  et  s'il 
le  scavoit,  il  te  conviendroit  mourir.  Ne  ja  ne  le  celeray  que 
ceste  foys.  Et  Ulfin  respondit ;  se  Je  mouroye  pour  le  Roy,  se 
me  seroit  grant  honneur.  Puis  il  lui  dit :  Dame,  Je  me  esbahis 
que  vous  refiiisez  le  Roy  pour  vostre  amy,  qui  plus  vous  aime  que 
luy  meme ;  et  veuillez  savoir  qu'il  meurt  pour  vous,  et  qu'il 
mourra  si  n'avez  mercy  de  luy.  Et  elle  respondit :  vous  vous 
gabez.  Et  il  luy  respondit:  Pour  Dieu,  Dame,  ayez  mercy  du 
Roy  et  de  vous-mesmes  ;  car  si  vous  n'en  avez  mercy,  vous  en 
verrez  venir  grant   mal :    Xe  vous,  ne  votre  seigneur,  ne  vous 


478  APPENDIX. 

saurez  deffendre  centre  sa  voulente.  Et  a  done  Ygiierne  re- 
spondit  en  pleurant  tendrement :  Si  feray  ;  Je  m'en  deffendrai 
bien.  Car  jamais  ne  me  troureray,  la  feste  passee,  en  la  com- 
paignie  du  Roy,  ny  en  sa  cour  ne  me  trouveray  ;  ne  pour  quelque 
mandement  qu'il  face  ne  yiendray.  Ainsi  se  departirent  Ulsius 
et  Yguerne. 

No.  2,  p.  159. 
Le  Saint  Graai.. 

Extract  from  chap.  Ix.  of  British  Museum  MS.  Roy.  xiv.  E.  3, 
printed  by  the  Early  English  Text  Society,  The  History  of  the 
Holy  Grail. 

Josephes  sees  in  the  Grail-ark  Christ  nailed  to  the  Cross. 
Apres  esgarda  iosephes,  si  vit  ke  la  lanche  qu'il  auoit  veue  en  la 
main  au  tierch  angele  estoit  fichie  tres  parmi  le  coste  del  home 
crucefijet.  Si  en  degoutoit  tout  contreual  la  hanste  vors  ruisseles 
qui  n'estoit  ne  tous  sans  ne  toute  iaue,  &  uepourquant  il  sambloit 
estre  de  sane  &  d'iaue.  Et  desous  les  pies  au  cruchefis  vit  ichele 
escuele  ke  ioseph  ses  peres  auoit  fait  aporter  en  I'arche.  Si  li 
estoit  auis  ke  li  sans  des  pies  au  erucefije  degoutoit  en  chele 
escuele  que  ele  estoit  ia  pres  plaine,  si  sambloit  a  iosephe  ke  ele 
ransist  verser,  &  ke  li  sans  en  deust  espandre. 


Et  il  [Joseph,  pere]  esgarda,  si  vit  dedens  I'arche,  i.  petit  autel 
tout  conuert  de  blans  dras  &  par  desus  tous  les  blans  dras  si  auoit, 
i.  moult  riche  drap,  &  vermeil  &  moult  biel  autrestel  comme 
samit.  Desour  che  drap  esgarda  ioseph,  si  vit  qu'il  auoit,  iij. 
cleus  tous  degoutans  de  sane,  &  i.  fer  de  lanche  tout  sanglant  a 
Tun  des  chies  de  I'autel,  &  a  I'autre  chief  estoit  I'escuele  qu'il 
auoit  aportee.  Et  en  milieu  del  autel  si  auoit,  i.  moult  riche 
vaissiel  d'or  en  samblanche  d'un  hanap,  &  i.  couuercle  deseure  qui 
estoit  d'or  au  tresi.  I^e  le  couuercle  ne  preut  il  mie  veoir  a  de- 
liure,  ne  quanques  il  auoit  desus.  Car  il  estoit  couuers  d'un  drap 
ke  on  ne  le  povit  vevir  ke  par  deuant.  Et  tout  outre  I'autel  si 
vit  vne  main  qui  tenoit  vne  crois  moult  biele,  toute  vermelle.  Mais 
chelui  dont  la  mains  estoit,  ne  vit  il  mie.  Et  si  uit  deuant  I'autel, 
ij.  mains  qui  tenoient  chierges.  Mais  il  ne  vit  mie  les  cors  dont 
les  mains  estoient.  Endementiers  ke  il  gardoit  ensi  laiens,  si 
escouta,  si  oi  I'uis  d'une  cambre  moult  durement  flatir,  &  il  tourne 


PERCEVAL.  479 

ses  iex  vers  la  cambre,  si  en  uit  issir,  ij.  ano;eles,  dontli  vors  tenoit, 
i.  orchiiel  tout  plain  d'iaue,  &  li  autres  tenoit,  i.  jetoir  en  sa  main 
destre.  Et  apres  cbes,  ij.  en  uenoient  doi  autre  qui  portoient  en 
lor  mains,  ij.  grans  vaissiaus  d'or  autresteus  comme,  ij.  bachins, 
&  a  lor  cans  auoit,  ij.  touailles  qui  estoient  de  si  grant  biaute 
comme  cheles  qui  onques  bom  morteus  n'auoit  baillies.  Quant 
chil  doi  furent  bors  de  la  cambre,  si  en  issirent  troi  autre  apres 
c^ui  portoient,  iij.  encliensiers  d'or,  enlumines  de  si  riches  pierres 
precieuses  qu'il  sambloit  de  uoir  ke  il  fuissent  tout  espris  de  fu 
ardant.  Et  en  I'autre  main  tenoit  cbascuns  d'aus  vne  boiste  plaine 
d'enchens,  &  de  mierre,  &  de  maintes  autres  precieuses  espises  qui 
rQ;ndoient  laiens  si  douche  odour  &  si  grant  suatume  qu'il  estoit 
tres  bien  auis  ke  la  maisons  en  fust  toute  plaine.  Apres  en  vit 
issir,  j.  autre  qui  auoit  letres  el  front  escrites,  &  si  disoient,  "  ie 
sui  apieles  forche  del  tres  baut  signour."  Icbil  portoit  sour  ses, 
ij.  mains,  i.  drap  autresi  verdoiant  com  esmerande  &  sour  che 
drap  estoit  mise  la  sainte  escuele.  En  coste  de  cbelui  drap,  &, 
i.  angele  deuers  destre,  en  auoit,  i.  qui  portoit  vn  teste,  com  ques 
si  riches  ne  si  bians  ne  fu  reus  par  iex  de  nul  home  terrien  se 
chil  meismes  ne. 


Xo.  3,  p.  173 
Perceval. 

Premierement,  dist  la  mere  de  Perceval,  si  vous  trouvez,  ne 
pres,  ne  loin,  Dame  qui  ait  de  vous  besoing,  ou  pucelle  descon- 
seille,  ou  qui  de  votre  ayde  ait  metier,  ne  lui  veuillez  denier  votre 
service.  Car  Je  vous  dj  que  tout  honneur  est  a  Thomme  perdu, 
qui  honneur  a  dame  ne  porte  ;  et  quiconque  honore  veut  etre,  lui 
faut  a  pucelle  et  a  Dame  honneur  referer.  Ung  autre  enseigne- 
ment  retiendrez  :  S'il  echiet  que  pucelle  ayez  gagnee,  ou  que 
pucelle  de  vous  soit  amie  privee,  si  le  baiser  elle  ne  vous  denie,  le 
baiser  pouvez  prendre ;  mais  le  reste,  Je  vous  le  deffens  :  fors  que 
si  en  doigt  elle  a  anneau,  ou  aumoniere  a  sa  ceinture,  si,  par 
amour,  anneau  ou  aumoniere  vous  donne,  licitement  le  don  vous 
pouvez,  en  la  remerciant,  prendre,  et  le  don  d'icelle  emporter. 
Perceval  prit  conge  de  sa  mere,  et  s'achemina  vers  la  com*  du  Roy 
Artus.  Le  lendemain  aux  premiers  rayons  de  soleil  il  decouvrit 
iin  riche  pavilion. 

Quant  pres  du  pavilion  fut  arrive,  ouvert  le  trouva,  dedans 


480  APPENDIX. 

lequel  vit  un  lict  noblement  accoutre,  sur  leqiiel  etoit  une  pucelle 
seule  endormie,  laquelle  avoient  laissee  ses  demoyselles  qui  etoient 
alle  cueiller  des  fleurs  pour  le  pavilion  jolier  et  parier,  comme  de 
ce  faire  etoient  accoutumees.  Lors  est  Perceval  du  lict  de  la 
Pucelle  approche,  courrant  assez  lourdement  dessus  son  cheval : 
adonc  s'est  la  pucelle  assez  effrayement  eveillee.  A  laquelle,  dit 
Perceval,  "  Pucelle,  Je  vous  salue,  comme  ma  mere  m'a  apprins, 
laquelle  m'a  commande  que  jamais  pucelle  ne  trouvasse,  que 
humblement  ne  la  saluasse."  Aux  paroles  du  jeune  Perceval,  se 
print  la  pucelle  a  trembler,  car  bien  luy  sembloit  qu'il  n' etoit 
gueres  sage,  comme  le  montroit  assez  son  parier :  et  bien  se 
reputoit  foUe,  que  ainsi  seule  I'avoit  trouvee  endormie.  Puis  elle 
lui  dit :  "  Amy  pense  bien-tot  d'icy  te  departir,  de  peur  que  mes 
amis  ne  t'y  trouvent,  car  si  icy  te  rencontroient,  il  t'en  pourroit 
mal  advenir."  "  Par  ma  foi,"  dit  Perceval,  "jamais  d'icy  ne 
partirai  que,  j^remier,  baisee  ne  vous  aye."  A  quoy  repond  la 
pucelle  que  non  fasse,  mais  que  bientot  pense  de  departir,  que  ses 
amis  la  ne  le  treuvent.  "  Pucelle  (fait  Perceval)  pour  votre 
parier,  d'icy  ne  partirai  tant  que  de  vous  aye  eu  ung  baiser ;  car 
ma  mere  m'a  a  ce  faii-e  ainsi  enseigne."  Tant  s'est  Perceval  de 
la  Pucelle  approche,  qu'il  I'a  par  force  baisee  ;  car  pouvoir  n'eut 
elle  d'y  resister,  combien  qu'elle  se  deffendit  bien.  Mais  tant 
etoit  lors  Perceval  lafre  et  lourd,  que  la  defense  d'icelle  ne  luy 
put  profiter,  qu'il  ne  luy  prit  baiser,  voulsit  elle  ou  non,  voire, 
comme  dit  le  conte,  plus  de  vingt  fois.  Apres  que  Perceval  eult 
par  force  prit  de  la  pucelle  baiser,  advisa  qu'en  son  doigt  elle  avoit 
ung  anneau  d'or,  dedans  lequel  etoit  une  belle  claire  esmeraude 
enchassee,  lequel  pareillement  par  force  lui  ota  comme  le  baiser 
avoit  eu  :  puis  le  mit  en  son  doigt  oultre  le  gre  de  la  pucelle,  qui 
fort  s'etoit  defendue  quand  cet  anneau  luy  a  ote.  Lors  Perceval 
prenant  I'anneau  de  la  Pucelle,  usa  de  telles  parolles,  comme  il 
avoit  fait  au  baiser,  disant  que  sa  mere  I'avoit  a  ce  faire  enseigne, 
mais  que  plus  avant  ne  ailleurs  ne  toucheroit,  comme  par  sa  mere 
luy  avoit  ete  commande.  La  pucelle  se  voyant  ainsi  despouillee 
et  perforcee  de  son  anneau  et  de  son  baiser,  se  print  si  fort  a 
lamenter  et  gemir,  que  le  cueur  luy  cuida  partir.  Puis  dit  a 
Perceval :  "  Amy,  Je  te  prie,  n'emporte  point  mon  anneau ;  car 
par  trop  en  serois  blamee,  et  toy,  possible,  en  perdrois  la  vie." 
Perceval  ne  prend  a  cueur  ce  que  la  pucelle  luy  dit ;  mais  comme 
depuis  qu'il  fut  de  chez  sa  mere  parti,  n'avoit  mange  ne  bu,  par 
quoy  ne  fut  au  pavilion  de  la  pucelle  sans  grand  appetit.    Et  luy. 


LANCELOT  DU  LAC.  481 

eu  ce  desire  de  manger,  coiiime  tout  affame,  advise  d'aventure  un 
boueal  plein  de  vin,  aiipres  duqiiel  etoit  im  hanap  d'argent.  Puis 
regarde  une  toiiaille,  fort  blanche  et  assez  tine,  qu'il  souleve  et 
prende ;  et  dessous  icelle  trouve  trois  pates  froids,  de  cliair  de 
Chevreuil,  Gueres  n'arreta,  quand  les  pates  en  sa  main  tint,  de 
se  mettre  en  debvoir  d'en  taster ;  car,  comme  ai  dit  grand  faim 
avoit.  Partant,  si-tot  qu'il  les  tint,  en  froissa  un  entre  ses  mains, 
et  apres  en  avoir  mange  non  sobrement,  souvent  retournoit  visiter 
le  boueal.  Puis  dit  a  la  pucelle :  "  Dame,  Je  vous  prie,  venez 
et  faites  comme  moy  ;  quand  vous  aurez  ung  paste  mange,  et  moy 
ung  autre,  encore  en  restera  t-il  ung  pour  les  survenants."  La 
Pucelle  voyant  Perceval  ainsi  deregleraent  manger,  s'en  esbahit, 
et  rien  ne  luy  repond ;  mais  d'autre  chose  ne  se  pent  alleger,  fors 
que  de  se  prendre  a  pleurer  et  a  gemir  tendrement.  Perceval, 
qui  peu  garde  y  prenoit,  de  la  pucelle  print  conge,  apres  qu'il  eut 
reconvert  le  reste  des  pates  dessous  la  touaille. 


No.  4,  p.  183. 
Lancelot  du  Lac. 

Et  quelle  part  cuydez  vous  aller  beau  Sire,  dit  Girfiet.  Le  ne 
vous  diray  Je  pas,  dist  le  Roy,  car  Je  ne  puis  :  et  quant  Gii-flet 
veit  qu'il  n'en  scauroit  plus,  il  se  partit  tantost  du  Eoy  Artus.  Et 
si -tost  comme  il  fut  departy  commenca  une  pluye  a  cheoir  grande 
et  merveilleuse,  qui  lui  dura  jusques  a  ung  tertre  qui  estoit  loing 
du  Roy  environ  demy  lieue  ;  et  puis  quant  il  fut  venu  au  dit 
tertre  il  descendit,  et  s'arresta  dessoubs  ung  arbre  tant  que  la 
pluye  fust  passee,  et  commenca  a  regarder  celle  part  on  il  avoit 
laisse  le  Roy  ;  si  veit  venir  parmy  la  mer  une  Nef  qui  estoit  toute 
plaine  de  dames  et  de  damoyselles,  et  quant  elles  vindrent  a  la 
rive  la  dame  d'elles  qui  estoit  Seur  au  Roy  Artus  Tappella,  et 
sitost  que  le  Roy  Artus  veit  Morgain  sa  seur  il  se  leva  inconti- 
nent, et  Morgain  le  print  par  la  main  et  luy  dist  qu'il  entrast 
dedans  la  nef ;  si  print  son  cheval  et  ses  armes  et  entra  dedans  la 
nef. 

Et  quant  Girflet,  qui  estoit  au  tertre,  eut  veu  comment  le 
Roy  estoit  entre  en  la  nef  avecques  les  dames,  il  retourna  vers  la 
riviere  tant  qu'il  peut  du  cheval  courre  :  et  quant  il  y  fut  revenu 
il  veit  le  Roy  Artus  entre  les  dames.     Si  congneut  bien  Morgain 

I.  II 


482  APPENDIX. 

la  Faee,  car  plusieiires  foys  Tavoit  veue.     Et  la  uef  si  estoit  ja 
plus  eslongnee  que  une  arbalestre  neust  sceu  tii-er  a  deux  foys. 


No.  5,  p.  191. 

Meliadus  de  Leonnots. 

Brehus  encontra  ung  Chevalier  arme  de  toutes  pieces,  qui' 
menoit  en  sa  compaguie  une  damoyselle  et  deux  escuyers  tant 
seuUement.  Et  sacbez  que  la  damoyselle  estoit  bien  vestue,  et 
moult  noblement,  comme  ce  feust  este  une  Royne;  et  estoit 
montee  sus  ung  pallefroy  blanc,  et  cbevauchoient  plaisamment 
parmy  la  forest,  elle  et  le  Chevalier  errant.  Le  chevalier  estoit 
sus  ung  grant  cheval,  et  en  faisoit  mener  ung  autre  en  main.  Le 
Chevalier  alloit  chautant  une  chanson  nouvelle  qu'avoit  este  faicte 
nouvellement  en  la  maison  du  Roy  Artus  ;  et  estoit  la  chanson 
ainsi: — 

En  grant  joye  m'a  amour  mis, 

Et  de  grant  douleur  m'a  oste, 

Maulgre  tous  mes  ennemys — 

Je  suis  si  haultement  monte, 

Que  pour  son  ami  m'a  compte 

Celle  qui  passe  fleur  de  Lys : 

Et  quant  pour  son  homme  m'a  pris, 

Bien  ay  le  monde  surmonte. 


No.  6,  p.  197. 

Tristan. 

Tristan  se  couche  avec  Yseult  sa  femme.  Le  luminaire  ardoit 
si  cler,  que  Tristan  pouvoit  bien  veoir  la  beaute  d'Yseult ;  elle 
avoit  la  bouche  vermeille  et  tendre,  yeux  pers  rians,  les  sourcils 
bruncs  et  bien  assis,  la  face  claireet  vermeille  comme  une  rose Taube 
du  jour.  Sy  Tristan  la  baise  et  I'acolle  ;  mais  quant  il  lui  souvient 
de  Yseult  de  CornouaUles,  sy  a  toute  perdue  la  voulonte  du 
surplus.  Cette  Yseult  est  devant  lui,  et  I'autre  est  en  Corn- 
ouailles  qui  lui  defent  que  a  I'autre  Yseult  ne  fasse  nul  riens  que 
a  villeinie  lui  tourne.  Ainsi  demeure  Tristan  avec  sa  femme  ;  et 
elle  qui  d'acoller  et  de  baiser  ne  savoit  riens,  s'endort  entre  les 
bras  de  Tristan  ;   et  Tristan  aussi  d'autre  part  s'endort  entre  les 


YSAIE    LE   TRISTE.  483 

bras  d'Yseult,  jiisques  a  lendemain  que  les  dames  et  damoiselles 
vinrent  veoir  Yseult  et  Tristan.  Tristan  se  lieve,  puis  vient  au 
palais. 

Xo.  7,  p.  217. 

YsAIE    LE    TkISTE. 

Les  chevaliers  avoyent  tant  d'envie  sur  luy  qu'a  merveilles. 
Lors  s'appensent  comment  ils  pourront  mettre  Marc  a  mort,  a 
leur  honneur,  et  au  moins  de  paroUes  :  Si  s'adviserent  comment 
ce  seroit  fait. 

"  Bernard  mon  compaignon  fait  d'ivoirie  a  ceste  ville  a  Thostel 
d'ung  Lombard,  et  y  a  une  cliambre  en  laquelle  nul  n'ose  liabiter 
qu'il  ne  sen  repente  trop  grossement,  especiallement  si  par  nuyt 
y  repose.  Xous  nous  trairons  pres  de  luy  et  luy  prierons  qu'il  y 
voise,  et  il  yra  comme  celuy  qui  de  riens  na  paour.  Et  vous 
voirres  qu'il  luy  mescherra  en  telle  maniereque  jamais  ce  ne  luy 
pourra  ayder."  A  ce  se  sont  tons  accordez.  L^ue  heure  entre 
les  autres  estoyent  les  chevaliers  avec  Marc,  et  parloyent  de 
plusieurs  besongnes  tant  qu'il  advint  que  messire  Bertrand  dist  a 
Marc — "  Sire  en  ceste  ville  a  ung  hostel  qui  souloit  estre  a  Isaac 
le  Lombard  ;  mais  il  n'est  nul  si  hardy  qu'en  une  chambre  qui  y 
est  osast  entrer,  ne  heberger  une  nuyt  tant  soit  hardy." 

"  Par  ma  foy,"  fait  Marc,  "  il  seroit  bien  sot  que  pour  telle 
chose  y  lairroit  a  aller.  Je  y  seray  en  nuyt  quoy  quil  en  ad- 
viengne."  Et  vers  le  vespre  il  fist  faire  ung  grant  feu  en  la 
chambre  on  ces  merveilles  estoyent,  et  fist  mettre  les  tables  et 
allumer  environ  vingt  torches,  et  y  avoit  bien  a  boire  et  a  menger. 
Lors  s'enfenna  dedans  tout  arme,  et  fist  tout  yssir  hors,  fors  luy. 
Ceux  et  ceUes  de  la  ville  disoyent  communement  qu'il  estoit  alle 
a  la  mort ;  mais  s'assist  a  table,  et  commenca  a  boire  et  a 
menger.  Mais  guieres  neut  ete  a  table  quant  table  et  tout 
versa  ;  et  puis  ouyt  ung  si  grant  bruyt  par  I'hostel,  que  c'estoit 
merveilles  a  ouyr.  Lors  que  Marc  ouyt  telle  noise  sault  sus,  et 
tire  I'espee,  et  commence  a  fuyr  comme  ung  enraige  ;  mais  il  ny 
voit  nully.  A'  tant  vient  vers  le  feu,  et  redresse  sa  table,  et  re- 
met  tout  sus,  et  se  rassiet ;  mais  en  I'heure  fut  tout  a  bas  comme 
devant.  Lors  ressault  sus  si  courrouce  que  plusne  peult. — ''  Se 
vous  estes  de  bon  pere  ou  de  bonne  mere  passez  avant  de  par 
dieu  ou  de  par  le  dyable."     Mais  oncques  plus  tost  ne  eust  dit 


484  APPENDIX. 

ce  mot  que  toute  la  lueur  qui  leans  estoit  fut  estainte.     Et  fut 

Marc  prills,  et  taut  mal  mene  quil  ne  se  peult  ayder  de  membres 

qu  il  eust,  et  demoura  tout  coy  estandu  emmy  la  place. 

Le  leiidemain  on  vint  prendre  garde  de  luy,  mais  on  le  trouva 

en  tel  estat  que  mieulx  sembloit  estre  mort  que  vif.      Dela  fut 

emport.     Et  quant  il  fut  guary  feist  maiider  ses  armes  et  s'arma, 

et  fist  taut  aincois  que  nul  en  fast  adverty  qu  il  fut  en  la  salle, 

on  il  avoit  este  si  mallement  atourne ;    et  y  beut  et  mengea,  et  y 

jeut.     Vers  myiiuyt  fut  taut  mal  atourne  que  tous  ses  membres 

estoyent  sans  force,  et  perdit  la  paroUe  et  le  sens  ;  mais  toutefFois 

il  ad  vint  que  gens  vindrent  leans  pour  veoir  le  lieu,  et  estoit  jour, 

car  de  la  nuyt  ny  eussent  ose  aller,  et  le  trouvereiit  ainsi  que 

mort. 

***** 

Et  quant  il  fut  reguary,  ung  homme  de  religion,  nomme  Annas, 
alia  avec  Marc  en  une  chambre.  Et  quant  ils  farent  seul  a  seul : 
"  Bel  amy,"  fait  Annas,  "  Je  vous  jure  sur  les  saincts,  que  se 
voulez  faire  ce  que  Je  vous  conseilleray,  vous  yrez  en  la  salle, 
aultrement  non  :  "  "  Or  dictes,"  fait  Marc,  "  et  sans  doubte  Je 
feray  ce  que  me  conseillerez  ;  "  "  Certes,"  fait  Annas,  "  Je  le 
vueil. 

"  II  est  vray,"  fait  Annas,  "  que  Je  suis  prebstre,  et  pource 
vous  plaise  me  dire  tous  vos  pecbez."  "  Voulentiers,"  fait  Marc  : 
lors  luy  conte,  et  quant  il  eut  tout  dit  si  luy  bailla  Annas  abso- 
lution ;  et  puis  luy  enchargea,  en  penite?ice,  que  jamais,  se  il 
n'estoit  premier  assailly,  ne  tuast  homme,  et  aidast  a  son  poure 
amy.  "  Le  feray  Je  voulentiers,"  fait  Marc.  "  Or  beau  sire," 
fait  Annas,  "  Or  pouez  hardiment  aller  ou  vous  avez  entreprins, 
car  tel  avoit  devant  pouoir  sur  vous,  que  maintenant  n'a  nul 
pouoir  de  vous  mal  faire." 

Quant  ce  vit,  vers  le  vespre  Marc  ne  s'oublia  mie,  aincois 
s'arma,  et  vint  en  la  salle  ou  tant  de  souffraite  avoit  eu ;  mais 
guieres  n'y  eut  ete  quant  le  dyable  vinst  a  luy,  et  luy  dist,  "  que 
quieres  tu  en  ce  que  est  nostre."  "  Et  pourquoy  vostre,"  fait 
Marc :  "  pource,  fait  Tennemy,  que  la  maison  a  este  faicte  des 
biens  qui  estoient  nostres,  que  nous  avions  preste  a  celuy  qui  ce 
fist  faire,  lequel  est  en  nostre  demaine  et  nostre  subject.  Et  est 
en  nostre  pouoir,  et  emprisonne,  en  noz  prisons  pour  plusieurs 
arretaiges  qu'il  nous  doit,  lesquelz  il  naura  jamais  payez  ;  et 
pource  veux  Je  que  tu  en  sortes,  car  nul  ny  a  droit  que  nous." 
"  Par  sainct  Jacques,  fait  Marc,  tu  T auras  aincois  de  ton  corps 


GYRON    LE    COURTOIS.  485 

gaiugne  contre  le  mien."  "  Je  ne  vueil  point  combatre  a  toy, 
fait  Tennemy,  car  tu  es  plus  fort  arme  que  tu  ne  souloies." 
"  Fuy  d'icy  done,"  fait  JMarc.  Lors  tire  I'espee  ;  et  sen  vient 
vers  luy,  et  Tennemy  s'en  fuit  entour  la  salle.  Et  Marc  le  cliasse, 
I'espee  an  poing.  longuement,  et  par  loisir.  Mais  en  la  fin  bouta 
Tennemy  le  feu  par  I'hostel :    et  puis  s'esvanouyt. 

Quant  Marc  veit  que  tout  ardoit  si  en  fut  tout  esbaliy,  et  se 
part.  Et  quant  il  en  court  si  conta  son  adventure,  dont  plusieurs 
personnes  enfurent  esbahys,  et  en  y  en  maint  qui  plus  souvent  se 
confesserent  que  devant.  Et  especiallement  les  chevaliers  quant 
lis  debvoient  entrer  en  bataille  ;  et  disoient  qu  estoit  la  plus 
seure  armeure  du  monde  que  confession. 


Xo.  8,  p.  237. 

Gyrox  le  Courtois. 

Ung  jour  que  le  temps  etoit  bel  et  clair,  comme  il  pouvoit  etre  en 
la  fin  d'Octobre,  advint  que  le  chemin  que  Gyron  tenoit,  famena 
tout  droictement  au  pie  d'un  tertre.  Ce  tertre  etoit  tout  blanc 
de  la  niege,  car  il  faisoit  hyver  ;  mais  la  plaine  etoit  toute  verte, 
comme  si  ce  fut  au  mois  de  May.  Au  pie  de  cette  montagne,  en 
la  plaine,  tout  droitement  dessous  ung  arbre,  sourdoit  une  fontaine 
moult  belle  et  moult  delectable ;  et  dessous  celluy  arbre,  etoit 
assis  un  Chevalier  arme  de  haubert  et  de  chasses  chevaleresques ; 
et  ses  autres  armes  etoient  pres  de  luy,  et  son  cheval  etoit  attache 
a  I'arbre.  Devant  le  Chevalier  seoit  une  Damoyselle  tant  belle, 
que  c'etoit  merveilles  que  sa  beaute.  Et  si  quelqu'un  me  deman- 
doit  qui  etoit  le  Chevalier,  Je  dirois  que  c'etoit  Dauayn-le-Roux, 
le  fort  Chevalier  ;  comme  aussi  la  Damoyselle  qui  etoit  assise  de- 
vant luy,  n'etoit  autre  que  la  belle  Damoyselle  Bloye,  qui  avoit 
tant  aime  Gyron. 

Xo.  9,  p.  243. 

Perceforest. 

Lors  dresse  I'espee  pour  luy  coupper  la  tete,  et  le  prent  par 
les  cheveulx,  et  le  voulut  ferir  ;  mais  il  luy  fut  advis  ([u'il  tenoit 
la  plus  belle  Damoiselle  que  oncques  veit,  par  les  cheveulx.  Lors 
le   regarde,    et  veoit  que  c'estoit  Ydorus  sa  femnie  la  Royne. 


486  APPENDIX. 

Adonc  fut  tout  esbaby  si  va  dire :  ha  Doulce  amye  este  vous  icy. 
Adonc  luy  fut  advis  qu'elle  dist — Ouy  vrayement  doulx  amy ; 
ayez  mercy  de  moi.  Et  le  nayn  qui  estoit  la  crioit  tousjours 
comme  enrage — Gentil  Roy  occis  le  ou  tu  es  mort.  Ce  ne  valut 
pas  maille  ;  car  le  Roy  s'assit,  et  embrasse  Damant,  et  le  print  a 
accoller  comme  sa  femme,  et  dist :  Belle  seur,  pa.rdonnez  moy 
mon  meffaict,  car  J' este  deceu.  Et  Darnant  tira  ung  couteau 
Galoys  et  fiert  le  Roy  en  la  poictrine  ung  si  grant  coup  qu'il  luy 
fist  passer  a  I'autre  lez,  mais  Dieu  le  ayda  que  ce  fust  au  dextre 
coste  ung  pen  dessoubz  I'espaule.  Quant  le  Roy  sentit  le  coup 
il  sault  sus  tout  efiraie,  et  le  nayn  recommenca  a  dire :  Roy  occis 
le  ou  tu  es  mort.  Quant  le  roy  se  sentit  navre  si  cruellement  il 
s'apperceut  qu'il  estoit  enchante.  Lors  leve  I'espee  et  couppe  au 
chevalier  la  teste,  et  le  corps  s'estend,  et  Tame  s'en  va  ou  elle 
devoit  aller.  Et  tantost  commenca  en  la  forest  une  noyse  et  ime 
tourmente  si  grant  de  mauvaise  Esperitz  que  c'estoit  hydeur  a 
ouyr. 

No.  10,  p.  251. 

Artus  de  la  Bretagne. 

Et  quant  Artus  la  vit,  elle  luy  pleut  plus  que  quant  la  vit 
premierement :  si  la  print  par  la  main  et  s'assirent  a  une  part 
entre  eux  deux  ;  et  la  Dame  et  Gouvernau  furent  d' autre  part. 
Si  fut  la  matine  belle  et  claire,  et  la  rosee  grande  ;  si  chantoient 
les  oysellets  par  la  forest :  si  que  les  deux  enfans  s'en  esjouissoient 
en  grande  liesse  pour  le  doux  temps,  comme  ceux  qui  estoient 
jeunes  et  a  qui  il  ne  failloit  que  jouer  et  rire,  et  qui  s'entre  ay- 
moient  de  bon  cueur  sans  villenie  et  sans  mal  que  I'un  eust  vers 
I'autre.  Lors  dist  Artus  tout  en  riant — Ma  Damoiselle  Jeannette 
avez  vous  point  d' Amy  ?  et  elle  en  souzriant  et  en  regardant  Artus 
doucement  luy  respondit :  Par  la  foy  que  Je  vous  doit  ouy,  bel 
et  gracieux.  Et  d'ou  est  il  Jeannette  ?  Sire  il  est  d'un  pays 
dont  il  est — Et  comme  est  il  appelle,  dist  Artus  :  la  fille  dist, 
vous  vous  souffrirez  ;  mais  pourtant  veux  bien  que  maintenant 
scachez  que  le  Roy  Artus  fut  un  bon  chevalier  et  preux  et  de 
grand  vertu ;  et  vous  dis  que  mon  amy  est  aussi  bon,  si  meilleur 
n'est,  et  si  resemble  a  vous  mieux  qu'a  personne  qui  vive,  d' aller, 
et  de  venir,  de  corps,  et  de  toutes  les  choses  que  nul  peut  res- 
sembler  a  I'autre. 


HUON    DE    BOURDEAUX.  487 

Xo.  11,  p.  306. 

HuON    DE    BoURDEAUX. 

II  entra  dedans  la  salle  laquelle  il  regarda  a  grant  merveilles, 
car  tant  estoit  bel  et  riche  a  le  veoir  qne  il  n'est  clerc  au  jourd- 
hny  au  monde  qui  la  beaulte  ne  la  richesse  qui  la  dedans  estoit 
vous  sceust  escrire.  La  eussiez  peu  veoir  autour  de  la  dicte  salle 
les  buys  des  riches  chambres  qui  a  la  costiete  de  la  salle  estoyent, 
toute  la  maconnerie  de  leans,  autant  qu'elle  duroit,  estoit  faicte 
et  composee  du  plus  beau  marbre  blanc  et  poly  que  oncques 
peust  veoir ;  les  poustres  qui  par  la  salle  estoyent  furent  toutes 
de  cuyure  dore  de  fin  or :  d'aultrepart  au  bout  de  la  salle  avoit 
une  cheminee,  dont  les  deux  pilliers  qui  lemanteau  soubstenoyent 
estoyent  de  jasbre,  et  le  manteau  fut  fait  et  compasse  d'ung 
moult  riche  cassidoyne,  et  la  listel  qui  soubstenoit  la  clere  voye 
estoit  faicte  toute  de  fines  enneraudes,  et  la  clere  voye  estoit 
faicte  de  une  vigne  entergectee  laquelle  estoit  de  fin  or,  et  les 
grappes  de  raisin  estoyent  faictes  des  plus  fins  saphirs  du  monde. 
Tant  belle  et  tant  riche  estoit  la  cheminee  que  la  pareille  on  ne 
trouva  en  tout  le  monde  ;  et  tons  les  pilliers  qui  en  la  salle  du 
palays  estoyent  estoyent  fais  de  ung  vermeil  cassidoyne,  et  le 
pavement  qui  en  la  salle  estoit,  estoit  tout  d'ambre. 

Quant  le  Due  Huon  eust  bien  advise  la  salle  il  ouvrit  une 
chambre.  Quant  il  fut  entre  il  regarda  amont  et  aval,  et  veit  la 
chambre  tant  richement  garnye  et  aournee  tendue  et  encourtinee 
des  plus  riches  draps  que  oncques  eust  vue  en  sa  vie.  Les  bancs 
qui  la  estoyent  et  les  challis  des  licts  et  des  couches  estoyent  tons 
d'ung  fin  yvoire  blanc,  tant  richement  entaillez  ouvrez  et  garnys 
de  pierres  preciuses  qu'il  n'est  langue  humaine  d'homme  ne  de 
femme  qui  dire  le  vous  sceust ;  et  estoit  tout  ce  fait  par  en- 
chanterie  :  le  palais  que  Je  vous  dy  estoit  moult  grant  et  large  et 
bien  gamy  de  riches  chambres.  Quant  Huon  eut  veu  icelle 
chambre  il  feust  tout  esbahy  de  ce  que  leans  ne  veoit  homme  ne 
femme ;  il  regarda  ung  aultre  huys  sur  lesquel  estoit  escript  de 
lettres  d'or,  ainsi  comme  il  avoit  trouve  a  Thuys  de  la  chambre  ou 
il  avoit  este,  et  print  la  clef,  si  ouvrit  I'huys  et  entra  dedans,  et 
choisit  tant  d'or  de  richesses  de  joyaulx  de  pierres  precieuses  que 
grant  beaulte  estoit  a  les  veoir.  Vray  Dieu,  ce  dist  Huon,  Je 
cuyde  que  en  tout  le  monde  on  ne  scauroit  ne  poiu-roit  trouver 


488  APPENDIX. 

la  richesse  qui  est  icy  amasse ;  et  puis  quant  la  eust  ete  une 
espace  cle  temps  il  regarda  et  veit  une  aultre  chambre ;  puis 
quant  dedans  fut  entre,  si  grans  richesses  avoit  veues  encores,  les 
trouva  il  plus  grans,  car  la  dedans  estoyent  unes  ausmoires  moult 
riches  et  grandes  a  merveilles,  qui  estoyent  faictes  de  fine  y voire 
tant  richement  ouvrees  et  entaillees  que  beste  ne  oyseau  qui  au 
monde  fust  on  ne  avoit  laisse  que  la  ne  fust  entaille  par  grant 
maitrise ;  dedans  les  ausmoires  y  avoit  robbes  de  fine  drap  d'or 
et  de  moult  riches  manteaulx  soubelins  et  toutes  aultres  choses 
qui  appartenoyent  a  vestir  a  homme  ;  puis  estoyent  les  licts  et 
les  couches  tant  richement  converts  et  parez  que  n'est  nul  qui 
dire  le  vous  sceust.  Car  tant  estoit  la  chambre  belle  et  riche 
que  Huon  ne  se  pouoyt  saouller  de  la  voir  :  Leans  avoit  fenestres 
et  voirrieres  moult  riches  par  lesquelles  Ton  veoit  ung  jardin, 
lequel  estoit  tant  bel  et  si  bien  garny  de  fleurs  moult  odorans,  et 
de  tons  arbres  chargees  de  plusieurs  fruicts,  lesquelz  estoyent 
tant  delicieux  a  manger  que  il  nestoyt  que  seullement  a  sentir 
Todeur  ne  feust  ressazie  et  remply.  D'aultre  part  y  avoit 
d'herbes  et  de  fleurs  que  si  tres  grant  odeur  rendoyent  que  il 
sembloyt  que  tout  le  jardin  feust  plain  de  basme. 


Xo.  12,  p.  314. 

GUERIN    DE    MONTGLAVE. 

Or  sont  les  champions  dedans  le  pare  corps  a  corps  pour  com- 
batre  :  si  s'eslongnent  lung  de  I'autre  ;  puis  brochent  leurs  che- 
vaulx  et  vont  Tung  contre  I'autre  comme  preux  Chevalliers  qu'ils 
estoient,  et  se  donnent  trois  coups  de  glaive  sans  rompre  ne 
entamer  haulbers  ne  sans  tumber  a  terre.  La  quatrieme  fois 
rompirent  leurs  lances  puis  tirerent  leurs  brands  d'acier  ;  Roland 
avoit  Durandal  sa  bonne  espee ;  et  en  geta  ung  coup  a  Olivier, 
et  Olivier  se  couvi-e  de  son  escu ;  mais  I'espee  y  entra  plus  d'ung 
pied  et  demy.  Vassal,  dist  Roland,  vous  devez  bien  aymer  I'escu 
que  vous  a  saulve  ce  coup :  et  ainsi  que  Roland  tiroit  son  espee 
Olivier  le  frapa  ung  tel  coup  que  Roland  n'eust  puissance  de 
lever  Durandal,  et  Durandal  tombe  a  terre.  Et  Olivier  suyvit 
Roland  tant  comme  il  peust,  et  se  combatyrent  assez  longuement : 
mais  Roland  n'osoit  approcher  d' Olivier,  car  Olivier  avoit  bonne 
espee  dont  il  fiert  Roland  de  toutes  pars  :  si  alia  tant  variant  et 


GALYEN    RHETORE.  489 

tuyant  Olivier  que  les  destriers  fureiit  moult  las  :  et  Roland  s'est 
eslongne  et  broclic  de  Tesperon,  et  descend  a  pied  vueille  Olivier 
ou  uon.  Et  quant  Olivier  le  voit  si  fust  bien  courrouce,  et  voit 
bien  que  s'il  ne  descend  qu'il  luy  occira  son  destrier.  Si  est 
descendu  Olivier,  et  Roland  prent  Durandal :  et  quant  il  la  tint 
il  ue'  I'eust  pas  donnee  pour  tout  Tor  du  monde.  Or  sont  les 
barons  a  pied,  et  tint  chascun  son  blason  et  chascun  sa  bonne  espee, 
et  se  donnent  de  grans  coups  ;  car  chascun  est  fier  et  de  grant 
puissance.  Olivier  le  ferit  ung  coup  sur  le  coeffe  d'acier  tant  que 
le  sercle  qui  estoit  d'or  cheut  en  la  pree,  et  fust  de  ce  coup  tout 
etonne,  tant  qu'il  chancela  troys  coups  la  teste  contre  bas.  Et 
quant  Roland  revint  en  force  il  eut  grant  lionte,  et  regarda 
Belleaude  qui  estoyt  sur  la  Tour.  Par  mon  chef,  dist  Rolant, 
or  ne  vaulx  Je  riens  si  Je  ne  me  delivre  tantost  doc  ire  Olivier. 
Lors  fiert  Olivier  tantost  sur  sa  targe  tel  coup  qu'il  emporta  la 
piece  jusques  a  terre  :  puis  courut  sus  a  Olivier  tellement  qu'ils 
sont  tous  deux  cheuz.  Or  sont  les  deux  barons  tumbez  a  terre, 
et  laisserent  leurs  espees,  et  se  embrassent  et  estraignent  Tung 
I'autre ;  mais  ne  Tung  ne  I'autre  ne  le  peust  oncques  gaigner  ne 
avoir  son  compaignon ;  si  frappent  des  ganteletz  d'acier  Tung 
contre  Tauter,  par  le  visaige,  si  que  le  sang  en  coule  a  terre  ;  si 
furent  tant  en  ce  point  lassez  et  travaillez  qu'ils  se  sont  relevez 
par  accord,  et  revont  aux  espees  comme  devant. 


Xo.  13,  p.  316. 

Galyen  Rhetoke. 

Sitot  que  Galyen  eut  advise  le  Pere  qui  I'engendra,  il  descendit 
de  dessus  son  Cheval  et  I'ala  embrasser ;  et  moult  courtoisement 
I'osta  hors  de  I'estour,  et  le  porta  decoste  le  rocher,  et  le  posa  a 
terre  sur  le  bel  herbe  vert ;  puis  se  coucha  decost  lui,  et  moult 
piteusement  le  regreta  en  disant — "  Helas  pere,  Je  voy  qu'il  vous 
convient  mourir  ;  mal  venistes  oncques  par  deca.  Jaqueline  ma 
mere  qui  m"a  long  temps  nourry  en  Constantinople  ne  vous  verra 
jamais."  Et  Olivier  lui  respont — "  Tu  dits  vrai,  mon  tres  doulx 
fils,  mais  ung  jour  qui  passa  lui  avoie  fait  proraesse  de  retourner 
et  de  I'epouser  :  mais  nous  venismes  deca  qui  men  a  garde  ;  ne 
oncques  puis  ne  retournay  en  France,  dont  mon  cueur  est  dolent — 
Je  la  commande  a  Dieu  qui  le  Monde  forma.      Le  Due  Regnier 


490  APPENDIX. 

mon  pere,  et  ma  dame  de  mere,  qui  en  ses  flans  me  porta,  ne  ma 
seur  Bellaude  jamais  ne  me  verra :  Helas  Doulx  Jesus !  quelle 
douleur  aura  le  Roy  Charleraaigne  de  ceste  mort  quand  11  le 
saura — helas  pourquoy  ne  venez  vous  cy  Charlemaigne !  Et  vous 
mon  chier  enfant,  qui  soavent  me  baisez,  Dieu  vous  veuille  tous- 
jours  avoir  en  sa  saincte  protection  et  garde.  Adieu  mon  tres 
gracieulx  et  doulx  enfant,  qui  en  vostre  giron  et  sur  vos  genoulx 
me  tenez — Adieu  Jaqueline  ma  tres  doulce  Amye;  pardonnez 
moi  gentil  Damoyselle  car  Je  ne  vous  ay  pas  tenu  promesse  ;  ce 
a  ete  par  les  faulx  desloyaulx  paiens  que  Dieu  mauldie — Adieu 
vous  dy  plaisante  Seur  Bellaude,  car  moult  grant  douleur  aurez 
de  ma  mort  quant  vous  le  scaurez  :  de  vos  beaulx  yeux  vers  et 
rians  arrouserez  souvent  votre  doulce  face.  Tres  doulce  seur 
plus  ne  me  baiserez,  puis  qu'a  la  mort  Je  dois  le  corps  rendre." 
Le  vaillant  Conte  Olivier  estoit  couche  sur  la  terre  nue,  ou 
la  mort  angoisseussement  le  tourmentoit,  et  son  fils  Galyen  lui 
faisoit  ombre  pour  la  chaleur  de  Soleil,  qui  merveilleusement 
estoit  chault,  qui  raioit  sur  sa  face ;  et  Rolant  estoit  au  pres  qui 
moult  regretoit  sa  mort  et  piteusement  plouroit  a  grosses  larmes. 
Adonc  Olivier  se  commanda  a  Dieu,  et  la  veue  lui  alia  troubler, 
et  lui  partit  Tame  du  corps.  A  I'heure,  eust  eu  le  cueur  bien 
dur  qui  n'eust  ploure  de  pitie,  du  dueil  qui  demenoit  Galyen  et 
Rolant. 


No.  14,  p.  328. 

DOOLIN    DE    MaYENCE. 

Se  trouvant  ainsi  seulet  Dolin  commenca  a  cercber  par  le 
palais  dec  a  et  dela,  mais  il  n'y  trouva  creature  vivant.  Mais 
comme  il  n'eust  de  ce  jour  gueres  mange  I'appetit  luy  commenca 
a  venir,  parquoy  il  descendit  en  la  cuisine  ou  il  trouva  viandes  a 
foison,  chair  fresche  et  salee  toutehabille,  et  venaison,  vollaibles, 
pain,  vin  et  autres  victuailles  a  plante.  Et  ainsi  qu'il  vouloit 
couvrir  la  table,  pour  prendre  sa  refection,  il  ouyt  une  douce  voix 
qui  chantoit  fort  melodieusement,  tellement  qu  il  navoit  one  ouyt 
chose  qui  fust  si  plaisant  a  ouyr,  et  pensoit  assurement  que  ce 
fust  quelque  Ange  du  ciel,  parquoy  il  jura  que  il  ne  mangeroit  ne 
prendroit  viande,  premier  qu'il  eust  sceu  ce  que  c'estoit.  Alors 
il  commenca  a  cercher  d'un  coste  et  d' autre  par  le  palais,  tant  que 
finalement  il  se  trouva  pres  d'une  chambre  en  laquelle  il  apper- 


DOOLIN    DE    MAYENCE.  491 

ceut  uiie  belle  jeune  damoyselle  toute  seule,  assise  sur  un  lict 
CO u vert  d'un  samis  verd,  laquelle  il  regarda  a  travers  une  fonte  de 
I'huis,  et  la  trouva  si  belle  qu'a  sou  advisal  estoit  impossible  de 
trouver  an  monde  son  parragon  ;  sa  robbe  estoit  d'un  fin  satin 
verd,  faicte  a  I'Alemand,  bordee  de  quatre  bords  de  passement 
blanc,  et  avoit  ceinte  une  ceinture  qui  estoit  faicte  toute  de  perles 
et  pierreries  montant  a  la  valeur  de  plus  de  cent  marcs  d^argent ; 
elle  avoit  les  yeux  clairs  et  estincellans  comme  I'estoile  de  jour, 
la  boucbe  petite  et  riante,  le  couleur  vermeille  comme  la  rose,  les 
ebeveux  longs  pendans  sur  les  espaules  jauues  comme  fil  d'or,  et 
avoit  sur  son  chef  un  cbappeau  de  perles  fines.  Elle  estoit  aagee 
seulement  de  seize  ans  et  deux  mois,  mais  elle  estoit  tant  sage  et 
bien  apprise  que  merveilles,  gracieuse  et  fort  courtoise  en  son 
laugage :  elle  s'estoit  retir  e  en  ceste  cbambre  pour  un  peu 
reposer  apres  disnee,  et  s'estoit  mise  a  chanter  pour  chasser  le 
sommeil.  Dolin  la  contemplant  a  son  aise  disoit  a  part  soy,  que 
jamais  il  n  avoit  veu  si  belle  creature  ;  comme  aussi  il  n'en  avoit 
pas  beaucoup  veu :  Je  ne  scay,  dist  il  si  c'est  un  Ange  du  ciel,  ou 
quelque  autre  chose  encore  plus  divine,  car  Je  croy  qu'onc  il  n'en 
fut  telle  de  mere  nee :  et  fut  alors  si  ardemment  esprits  de 
I'amour  d'elle,  qu'il  ne  pouvoit  penser  a  autre  chose  qu'a  sa  divine 
beaulte.  Estant  de  tout  embrase  de  I'ardeur  que  ce  jeune  archer 
aveugle  luy  faisoit  sentir  jusques  au  moelles  il  ne  scavoit  en  quoy 
se  resoudre,  craignant  par  trop  de  I'offenser  s'il  luy  rompoit  son 
repos ;  ce  neantmoint  apres  avoir  sur  ce  longuement  discource  en 
son  esprit  il  se  print  a  hurter  a  I'huis  de  la  cbambre  tout  belle- 
ment,  et  luy  dist :  Gracieuse  Damoyselle,  Je  vous  prie  par  cour- 
toisie  que  vueillez  m'ouvrir  I'huis  de  ceste  chambre.  Elle  cuidant 
que  ce  fust  un  sien  cousin,  qui  ordinairement  hantoit  en  la 
maison,  luy  feit  ouverture  de  la  chambre,  parquoy  Dolin  entra 
dedans,  et  la  salue  comme  il  scavoit  bien  faire  ;  mais  elle  voyant 
que  ce  n'estoit  celuy  qu'elle  avoit  cuide  estre  changea  de  couleur, 
parquoy  son  teinct  n'en  devint  que  plus  beau,  et  luy  ayant  rendu 
son  salut  luy  dist :  Je  me  donne  grand  merveille  Seigneur,  qui 
vous  a  donne  tant  de  licence  de  me  venir  trouver  en  ce  lieu.  A 
quoy  il  respondit  promptement :  Certainement  ma  Dame,  I'amour 
vehemente  que  Je  vous  porte,  et  non  autre  respect,  m'a  achemine 
en  ce  lieu,  non  point  pour  vous  donner  ennuy  ou  fascherie,  mais 
pour  vous  presenter  mon  service,  s'il  vous  plaist  I'avoir  pour 
agreable,  vous  priant  me  dire  pourquoy  vous  vous  tenez  ainsi 
seulette  en  ce  chambre.      Sire  Chevalier,  respondit  elle,  la  cour- 


492  APPENDIX. 

toisie  de  voz  parolles  m' incite  a  vous  declarer  chose  qui  ne  m'est 
de  moindre  importance  que  de  la  vie. — S^achez  cjue  la  tristesse 
et  angoisse  qui  ui'afflige  le  coeur  ne  me  permettent  reposer  de 
nuict  ni  de  jour,  et  ce  pourtant  que  mon  pere  a  delibere  de  me 
bailler  pour  femme  a  un  anoien  chevalier  qui  de  n'agueres  m'a 
demandee  en  mariage,  lequel  venant  a  estre  consomme  Je  n'auray 
de  ma  vie  un  seul  jour  de  soulas,  pourtant  que  Je  ne  pourray 
jamais  aymer  celuy  qui  est  a  moy  si  inegal.  Ma  dame  vous  estes 
maintenant  delivre  d'un  tel  mariage,  et  pourtant  si  cest  vostre 
plaisir  de  prendre  ma  foy,  et  me  donner  la  vostre,  Je  vous  emme- 
neray  avec  moy  en  mon  palais,  ou  vous  serez  servie  et  honnoree, 
et  la  Je  vous  espouseray  solennellement :  mais  entretant,  Je 
vous  prie  qu'il  vous  plaise  avoir  esgarcl  a  Tamour  grand  que  Je 
vous  porte,  et  le  recompenser  d'un  amour  reciproque,  en  ne  me 
refusant  ce  point  taut  desire  que  Ton  nomme  le  don  de  merci. 
Quand  elle  Tentemiit  parler  ce  langage  elle  commenca  a  muer 
couleur,  mais  il  la  print  entre  ses  bras  et  la  baisa.  Puis  il  dressa 
la  table,  laquelle  il  couvrit  de  plusieurs  sortes  de  mets,  et  de  pain 
et  vin  excellent ;  puis  il  s'assit  tout  aupres  d'elle,  et  en  la  recon- 
fortant,  luy  dist.  Ma  dame  et  maitresse  de  mon  coeur,  Je  vous 
prie  ne  vous  melancoliez  que  le  moins  que  vous  pourrez,  car, 
moyennant  la  grace  de  Dieu,  J'espere  vous  faii'e  en  brief  Dame  de 
Mayence  la  Grande.  Ainsi  ils  soupperent  et  se  repeurent  a  leur 
aise,  ne  prenans  propos  c^ue  d' amour,  et  durant  le  soupjDer  ne  se 
pouvoyent  saouler  de  regarder  I'un  T autre.  Apres  le  soupper, 
ils  s'en  allerent  tons  deux  coucher  en  un  beau  lict  richement 
garni,  ou  les  baisers  et  accolades  qu'ils  s'entredonnerent  furent 
infinies  et  sans  nombre ;  s'ils  se  contenterent  de  cela  seulement  Je 
le  laisse  penser  a  ceux  qui  autres  fois  se  sont  trouvez  en  telles 
escarmouches  :  vray  est  que  I'un  et  I'autre  estoit  aprentif  a  tel 
mestier,  mais  il  ne  tarda  gueres  qu'ils  y  furent  aussi  bons  maistres 
que  les  plus  experimentez,  et  eussent  voulu  que  la  nuict  eust  dure 
un  an  entier  tant  ils  estoyent  ravis. 


No.  15,  p.  335. 

Ogier  le  Danois. 

Adonc  Morgue  la  Fae  le  mena  par  la  main  an  Chasteau  d' Aval- 
ion,  la  ou  estoit  le  Roy  Artus  son  frere,  et  Auberon,  et  Mallabron 


QUATRE    FILZ    AYMON.  493 

ling  Luyton  de  Mer.  Or  quaut  Morgue  a])procha  du  dit  Cbas- 
teaii,  les  Faes  vindreiit  au  devant  d'Ogier,  cbautant  le  plus  melo- 
dieusement  qu'on  scauroit  jamais  ouyr  ;  si  eiitra  dedans  la  sails 
pour  soy  deduire  totallement.  Adonc  vist  plusieurs  dames  Faes 
aouruees,  et  toutes  couronnees  de  couronnes  tres  sumptueusement 
faictes,  et  moult  riches  ;  et  toiite  jour  chantoient,  dansoient  et 
menoient  vie  tres  joieuse,  sans  penser  a  nulle  quelcuoiique  mes- 
chante  chose,  fors  prendre  leurs  mondains  plaisirs.  Et  ainsi  qu' 
Ogier  se  devisoit  avecques  les  dames,  tantost  arriva  le  Roy  Artus 
auquel  Morgue  la  Fae  dist — "  Approuchez  vous,  Monseigneur 
mon  Frere,  et  venez  saluer  la  fleur  de  toute  Chevalerie,  I'honneur 
de  toute  la  noblesse  de  France  ;  celuy  on  bonte,  loyaulte,  et  toute 
vertii  est  enclose — c'est  Ogier  de  Dannemarcke,  mon  loyal  amy, 
et  mon  seul  plaisir.  et  auquel  git  toute  I'esperance  de  ma  lyesse." 
Adonc  le  roy  Artus  vint  embrasser  Ogier  tres  amiablement  et  luy 
dit — "  Ogier  tres  noble  Chevalier  vous  serez  le  tres  bien  venu,  et 
regrace  Je  nostre  seigneur  doulcement  de  ce  qu'il  m'envoyeung 
si  notable  chevalier."  Puis  Morgue  la  Fae  lui  mist  sur  son  chief 
ime  couronne  riche  et  tres  precieuse,  que  mil  vivant  ne  la  scauroit 
priser,  et  avecques  ce  elle  avoit  une  vertu  en  elle  merveilleuse, 
car  tout  homme  qui  la  portoit  sur  son  chief  il  oublioit  tout  dueil, 
tristesse  et  melencholie,  ne  jamais  luy  souvenoit  des  pays,  ne  de 

parens  qu'il  eut Et  Ogier  et  Morgue  la  Fae  s'entray- 

merent  si  loyaultement  que  ce  fut  merveille,  non  pensens  a  chose 
de  monde  fors  d'escouter  les  sons  de  tons  les  instrumens  dont  on 
se  puisse  corder  ;  sonnans  si  doulcement  qu'il  n'estoit  si  dur 
cueur  qui  n'oubliast  tout  dueil,  tristesse  et  melencolie  seulement 
pour  lem-  prestrer  I'oreille  ;  car  c'estoit  ung  lieu  si  delectable, 
([u'il  n'estoit  possible  a  homme  de  souhaiter  chose  qu'il  ne  trou- 
vast  leans.  Et  penses  qu' Ogier,  qui  taut  avoit  veu  de  chose,  en 
estoit  si  esbay,  qu'il  ne  scavoit  qu'il  devoit  faire,  ne  dire,  si  non 
qu'il  cuidoit  mieulx  estre  en  Paradis  que  a  nulle  autre  region. 


No.  16,  p.  343. 

QuATRE    FILZ    AtMON. 

Comment  par  le  secours  que  maugis  amena  a  Regnault  et  a 
ses  freres  es  plains  de  Vaux  couleurs  Ilz  desconfirent  les  gens  du 
roy  Charlemaigue  dont  ogier  en  eut  mains  reprouches  de  Rolant 


494  APPENDIX. 

pour  anlcune  bonte  quil  auoit  faicte  a  Regnault  et  a  ses  freres 
en  la  roche  mobron.  Et  en  fut  ogier  appelle  traictre  dont  grant 
Inconuenient  eri  Vint  apres  devant  Charlemaigne. 


Chapitre  xi. 

Or  dit  le  compte  que  quant  Regnault  eut  deseonfitJes  francoys 
II  s'en  retourna  vers  la  roche  mombron  la  ou  II  auoit  laisse  son 
frere  richart  si  naure  comme  ouy  aues.  Et  quant  II  fut  la  venu 
et  H  vit  son  frere  richart  si  horriblement  naure  II  ne  se  pent  tenir 
de  plourer  et  dist.  Helas  que  feray  Je  quant  Jay  perdu  mon 
chier  frere  et  le  meilleur  amy  que  que  Jaye  au  monde.  Et 
quant  II  eut  dicte  celle  parolle.  II  cheut  a  terre  de  dessus 
bayart  tout  pasme.  Et  quat  alart  et  guichart  virent  leur  frere 
qui  estoit  tobe  Hz  comenceent  a  regreter  richart  moult  tendre- 
ment.  Quant  Regnault  fut  reuenu  de  pamoison  II  comenca  a 
farre  le  plus  grant  dueil  du  monde  entre  luy  alart  et  guichart  sur 
richart  qui  gisoit  a  terre  ses  boyaulx  entre  ses  mais  Et  ce  pendant 
vecy  venir  maugis  monte  sur  broyquerre  Son  bon  cheual  le 
meilleur  que  Ion  sceust  fors  que  bayart.  Et  tenoit  vng  traffron 
de  lance  en  sa  main.  Et  quat  II  vit  Regnault  demener  si  grat 
dueil  II  en  fut  moult  courrouce.  Et  quant  II  vit  richart  ainsi 
naure  II  en  eut  au  cueur  grant  douleur  et  regardoit  la  playe  qui 
estoit  moult  horible  a  regarder  car  Ion  luy  veoit  le  foye  dedens 
le  corps.  Lors  dist  a  Regnault.  Beau  cousin  endendez  a  moy 
et  laissez  ce  grant  dueil.  Yous  scauez  bien  que  vous  estes  tous 
mes  cousins  si  nous  devons  parforier  de  secourir  lung  lautre  au 
besoing  Je  vous  ay  secouru  maintesfois.  Et  saiches  que  tout 
le  mal  que  Charlemaigne  me  Yeult  cest  a  vostre  occasion.  II 
occist  na  gueres  mon  pere  dot  Jay  au  cueur  tres  grant  tristesse, 
qui  estoit  vostre  oncle  qui  mourut  par  vostre  amour  ce  scaues 
vous  bien.  Mais  si  Yous  me  Youles  promectre  deuat  tous  Yoz 
barons  de  venie  auecques  moy  en  la  tente  de  Charlemaigne  et 
moy  aider  a  lassaillir  pour  Yenger  la  mort  de  mon  pere  si  nous  le 
pouons  faire  Je  vous  promotez  de  vous  redre  richart  tout  guery 
et  tout  sain  orendroit  sans  nuUe  douleur. 

Et  quant  Regnault  entendit  ces  parolles  II  sen  vient  a  maugis 
et  le  baisa  en  la  poictrine  tout  en  plourat  et  luy  dist.  Beau  tres 
doulx  cousin  pour  dieu  mercy  rendez  moy  mon  frere  richart 
guery  si  vous  plaist  et  Je  voules  aultre  chose  que  Je  face  com- 


QUATRE    FILZ    ATMON.  495 

Diandez  le  moy  et  Je  le  faray  de  tres  bou  cueur  car  vous  seaues 
bien  que  Je  ne  fis  oncques  cboses  qui  fust  coutre  Vostre  Volenti. 
Et  si  na  bomme  au  monde  pour  qui  Je  fisse  tant  que  Je  feroye 
pour  Vous.  Quant  maugis  vit  Regnault  si  tendrement  plourer  II 
en  eut  moult  grant  pitie  et  luy  dist.  Or  ne  vous  esmayez  mye  beau 
cousin  car  Vous  aures  ricbart  sain  et  sauhie  tout  a  present.  Et 
lors  descend  de  son  cbeual  a  terre  et  prent  vne  bouteille  de  vin 
blanc  si  en  laua  la  playe  de  ricbart  moult  bien  et  osta  tout  le 
sang  qui  estoit  en  tour.  Xe  Vous  esmayez  point  la  ou.  II  pre- 
noit  toutes  ses  cboses  qui  luy  faisoient  mestier  car  cestoit  le  plus 
subtil  nigromancien  qui  oncques  fust  au  monde.  Et  quant  II  eut 
ce  fait  II  prist  les  boyaux  et  les  luy  mist  dedeus  le  corps  et  print 
vne  aiguille  et  cousut  la  playe  moult  getemet  sans  biy  faire  sentir 
douleur  et  puis  prist  vng  oygnement  dont  II  oygnit  toute  la 
playe.  Et  si  tost  que  la  playe  fnt  oyngte  elle  fut  toute  saine 
come  se  Jamais  ny  eust  mal.  Et  quiit  II  eut  tout  ce  fait  II  print 
vng  breuaige  et  donne  a  boy  re  a  ricbart.  Et  quat  ricbart  eut 
beu  II  saultempiedz  tout  de  deliure  de  sa  douleur  et  dist  a  ses 
freres  ou  est  ale  ogier  et  ses  gens  nous  sont  Ilz  escbappez. 

Extract  from  Caxton's  Translation. 

Now  sbewetb  tbe  bistory,  after  tbat  Reynawd  bad  dyscomfyted 
tbe  frensbemen  be  retomed  agen  towarde  rocbe  mountbron, 
wbere  be  bad  lefte  bis  brotber  Ricbarde  tbus  wounded,  as  ye  bave 
berde.  And  whan  be  was  come  there,  &  saw  bis  brotber  so  bor- 
ryble  wounded  be  could  not  kepe  him  from  Avepynge  and  sayd, 
'  Alas  !  what  shall  I  doo  whan  I  have  lost  my  dere  brotber,  the 
best  freude  tbat  I  bave  in  the  world  ?  '  And  after  he  bad  sayd 
tbat  worde  be  telle  to  the  grounde  from  bayarde  in  a  swoune. 
and  whan  alarde  &  guycharde  sawe  their  brooder  tbat  Avas  fall,  they 
began  to  make  theyr  mone  for  Ricbarde  pietously.  And  whan 
Reynawde  was  com  agen  to  hymselfe  he  made  grete  sorowe  wyth 
bis  two  bredern,  Alarde  &  guycharde,  vpon  Ricbarde  their  bro- 
tber, that  laye  vpon  therthe  vryth  his  boweUes  betwene  his 
handes.  And  this  hangyng,  cam  mawgis  vpon  broykarre,  bis 
gode  horse,  the  best  that  men  wyste  after  bayarde  and  helde  a 
pece  of  a  spere  in  his  hande  And  whan  he  saw  Reynaud  make 
suche  soiTow,hewas  right  sori  for  it.  And  whan  he  sawe  Ricbarde 
thus  sore  wounded  he  was  wrothe,  &  bad  grete  pyte  for  to  see  the 
wounde   that  was  so  grete  for  men  sawe  the  lyver  wytbin  bis 


496  APPENDIX. 

body.  Thenne  sayd  he  to  Reynawd,  '  fayr  cosin  take  hede  what 
I  shall  say,  &  leve  this  sorow  ;  ye  know  wel  that  ye  be  all  my 
cosins  and  therfore  we  ought  to  parforce  ourselfe  for  to  socour 
thone  the  other  whan  it  is  nede.  I  have  socoured  many  tymes 
and  wyte  it  that  all  the  [h]arme  that  Charlemagn  bereth  to  me  it 
is  all  thrughe  your  occasion  he  slewe  my  fader  but  late  wherof 
I  bere  yet  at  my  hert  grete  hevynes,  that  was  your  vncle  that 
deyed  for  your  love :  that  know  ye  well.  But  yf  ye  wyll 
promyse  me  afore  all  your  barons  for  to  com  wyth  me  into  the 
tente  of  the  kynge  charlemagne,  &  helpe  me  to  sawte  hym  for  to 
avenge  vpon  hym  the  dethe  of  my  sayd  fader  yf  we  can,  I  shall 
delyver  to  you  Rychard,  evyn  now  hole  &  sounde  without  any 
sore,'  and  whan  Reynawde  understode  thise  wordes,  he  cam  to 
mawgis  and  kyssed  hym  in  the  breste  all  wepyng  &  sayd  to 
hym  Ryghte  swete  &  fayr  cosin,  for  god  mercy,  Delyver  to  me 
agen  my  broder  Richarde  hole,  yf  it  playse  you.  And  yf  ye  will 
that  I  doo  ony  other  thing  for  you  commaunde  me,  and  I  shall  do 
it  wyth  right  good  herte.  For  ye  wote  well  that  I  dyde  never 
onythyng  that  was  agenst  your  wyll ;  nor  there  is  no  man  in  the 
worlde  for  whom  I  wolde  doo  so  moche  as  I  wold  do  for  you. 
whan  mawgys  sawe  Reynawd  wepe  so  tenderly,  he  had  grete  pite 
of  it,  and  sayd  to  hym.  Now  be  not  dysmayed  of  nothyng  fayr 
cosyn,  for  ye  shall  have  Richarde  hole  &  sounde  incontynente. 

No.  17,  p.  346. 

Le  Chevalier  Berinus. 

Comment  lempereur  fut  aduerty  p  ses  tresoriers  que  sC  tresor 
estoit  en  partie  desrobe. 

Chap,  cxiii. 

En  telle  maiere  estoit  prudens  pensif  &  angoisseux  pour  le 
grat  larrecin  que  on  auoit  fait  coe  celui  qui  craignoit  que  on  en 
mist  toute  la  coupe  sur  luy  si  estoit  en  grat  balace  du  dire  ou  du 
laisser  en  la  fi  sassetit  &  se  auisa  pour  le  mieux  quelle  diroit  a 
iSpereur  Si  vit  a  luy  deist  tout  pmieremet  que  grat  ptie  de  so  tresor 
estoit  Sblez  &  si  ne  scauoit  p  ou  ne  comSt  Adoe  y  alia  veoyr 
lepereur  et  regarda  p  tout  si  appceut  bie  ql  estoit  moult 
amenuise  et  que  trop  grat  domage  y  auoyt  on  fait  lors  fat  si 
courrrouce  auecques  lire  quil  auvit  de  la  mort  de  oursaires  et 


LE    CHEVALIER    BERINUS.  497 

des  sr5s  q  pen  se  tailli)it  (^l  ne  lagoit  si  lui  tressua  tout  Ic  corps 
de  griit  maltalle  &  prit  a  menasser  &  iurer  moult  despitement  Et 
a  taut  se  de})artit  dileo  &  sen  vint  en  son  palais  si  courrouce  que 
tons  les  mebres  luy  trebloyent  de  ire  Puis  fist  le  roy  venir  deuant 
luy  les  sept  saiges  et  les  dix  tresoriens.  Et  si  y  furet  to  lesprices 
&  les  barons  asscmblez  Adonc  comenca  lepereur  sa  raison  &  dist 
moult  fieremet  come  celuy  qui  sebloit  estre  tout  desrue ;  et 
hors  du  sens  Seigneursie  vous  faisa  to  assauoir  que  ona  mo  grant 
tresor  tbrfait  et  emble  si  vueil  que  vous  me  dissiez  tantost  &  sas 
delaimet  que  ie  doy  faire  d  ceulx  qui  lont  eu  engarde  car  ie  Vous 
dy  en  Verite  quilz  ne  peuet  ne  scevet  monstrer  p  tuis  trou  fete  ne 
creuace  p  ou  on  le  puisse  auoir  emble  ne  ilz  ne  peuent  dire  nulle 
force  q  on  leiu*  oyt  faicte.  Et  pourtant  ilz  se  donnent  bie  a 
entendre  quilz  sont  coulpables  du  malice  Si  Vo  coniure  :  et  com- 
mande  a  tons  enseble  &  cliascun  a  par  luy  q  Vous  menseignez 
droit  iugement  &  Vous  comande  que  vo  ne  tenez  mie  ceste  chose 
a  moogrie  ais  y  regardez  droit  k  raison  Adonc  ny  eust  prince  due 
conte  ne  baron  qui  se  voulsist  mettre  en  auant  ne  dire  mot  car 
chascun  sen  attendoit  sur  les  sept  saiges.  Et  les-  tresoriers  si 
furet  tous  en  doubte  &  encremeur,  car  ilz  ne  scauoiet  ne  pouoiet 
tronuer  voie  p  quoy  ilz  se  peusset  excuser  suffisament. 


K   K 


LIST    OF    SOME    PROPER    NAMES 


EMPLOYED  IN  THE  EARLIEK  ROMANCES. 


y.B. 


The  numerals  indicate  a  page  where  they  are  mentianed  in 
the  present  work. 


Abilaus,  348. 
Abillant,  isle,  307. 
Abra,  369. 
Absalon,  348. 
Accars,  348. 
Agra,  346. 
Agesilan,  372. 
Agramante,  282. 
Agrapard,  299. 
Agravain,  268. 
Agriola,  381. 
Aigolandus,  272. 
Aigres,  348. 
Alain,  246. 
Alastraxare,  370. 
Albajzar,  390. 
Alexandria,  place,  370. 
Allard,  341. 
Almoradin,  vol.  ii.  162. 
Almourol,  390, 
Amadis.  358. 
Amai'an,  381. 
Ameil,  346. 
Amicus,  318. 
Amilius,  318. 
Amiloun,  318. 
Amylion,  317. 
Amynta,  vol.  ii.  379. 
Amys,  317. 
Anastarax,  370. 
Anceaume,  317. 
Ancel,  252. 
Anfalerne,  301. 
Angelica.  375. 
AngoulafFre,  298. 
Apolonia,  371. 


Aravigo,  359. 

Arcalaus,  358. 

Archidiana,  381. 

Ardemii-a,  381. 

Arfaren,  246. 

Arlanda,  370. 

Armato,  363. 

Arnaud,  311. 

Arnaud  of  Montcler,  340. 

Arrodian  de  Cologne,  223. 

Arthur,  218. 

Astolpho,  373. 

Astre,  376. 

Aubron,  218. 

Avallon,  place,  332. 

Avelon,  198. 

Aye,  342. 

Aymon,  338,  341. 

Ayriano,  347. 

Babylon,  370. 
Baranton,  471. 
Baudemagus,  265. 
Bayardo,  horse,  339. 
Bediver  or  Bedwyr,  197. 
Belianis,  395. 
Beligandus.  282. 
Belinda,  198. 
Belinus,  241. 
Belisa,  vol.  ii.  373. 
Belisia,  395. 
Bellisande,  319. 
Bellissande,  333. 
Beltenebros,  358. 
Berinus  (Beryn),  346. 
Bertthelot,  342. 


500 


LIST    OF    PROPER    NAMES. 


Bethides,  245. 
Betis,  242. 
Beuves,  337. 
Blaanor,  200. 
Blandie,  ]il.,  347. 
Bliomberis,  200. 
Bloye,  236! 
Boreas,  374. 
Boucault,  338. 
Bradamante,  209. 
Bran,  471. 
Brangian,  200. 
Brehus,  234. 
Brennus,  241. 
Brestoya,  356. 
Briolania,  357. 
Brueil,  254. 
Brutus,  239. 
Bruyant,  245. 
Boucault,  isle,  338. 
Buron,  vol.  ii.  145. 

Calpa,  isle,  381. 
Camelot,  193. 
Canaries,  373, 
Carmelide,  loc,  223. 
Carmesina,  397. 
Celadon,  vol.  ii.  379. 
Cerburus,  423. 
Ciceron,  pi.,  242. 
Cildadan,  358. 
Cirfea,  369. 
Cirongilio,  395. 
Chariot,  295,  333. 
Chifolonia,  297. 
Clairetle,  308. 
Clarice,  333. 
Clarian,  395. 
Clarissa,  344 
Claudas,  224. 
Claurus,  241. 
Clepatras,  348. 
Clesiadus,  260. 
Clodion,  209. 
Caesar,  218. 
Coll,  197. 
Cordelia,  241. 
Corinseus,  239. 
Cressus,  249. 

Daguenet,  202. 


Daigremont,  338. 
Daliarte,  390. 
Danayn,  233. 
Danemont,  348. 
Daraxa,  vol.  ii.  327. 
Darinel,  369,  394. 
Dardanon,  246. 
Darnant,  201. 
Deris,  399. 
Desolate  Isle,  374. 
Diofebo,  400. 
Dinas,  201. 
Doolin,  328. 
Dramuziando,  388. 
Driabelle,  326. 
Druas,  269. 
Dry  Island,  339. 
Duardos  (Edward),  385. 

Ebrain,  280. 
Elberich,  310. 
Elisena,  358. 
Emare,  vol.  ii.  169. 
Emendus,  253. 
Engeldrud,  318. 
Engelhard,  318. 
Enid,  264. 
Erbrin,  264. 
Erec,  263. 
Esclarmonde,  299. 
Eson,  421. 
Esplandian,  361. 
Estonne,  244. 
Esyllt,  197. 
Eubuda,  375. 
Eutropa,  388. 

Fadrique,  Patrick,  388. 
Falanges,  371. 
Ealsirone,  279. 
Fannus,  347. 
Farragut,  279. 
Felismena,  vol.  ii.  369. 
Fenice,  252. 
Felixmarte,  394. 
Ferracutus,  278. 
Ferran,  278. 
Ferrex,  240. 
Feronas,  241. 
Finister,  376. 
Firm  island,  359. 


LIST    OF    PROPER    NAMES. 


501 


Flandrina,  332. 
rierida,  386. 
Florant,  312. 
Florence,  252. 
Florendos,  379. 
Flores,  377. 
Florisel,  321. 
Florian,  388. 
Francelina,  3So. 
Fregondo,  312. 
Fulgarine,  377. 
Furra.  276. 

Gadditfer,  241. 
Galafre,  302. 
Galaor,  375. 
Galeso,  vol.  ii.  97. 
Galdap,  vol.  ii.  395. 
Galdc  pi.,  241. 
Galheret.  268. 
Gallafer,  246. 
Galiehault.  200. 
Gallifer,  245. 
Galyen,  316. 
Gandales,  354. 
Gannalon,  282. 
Garamantes.  374. 
Gardes,  326. 
Garyn,  296. 
Gandisse,  295. 
Gauvain,  209. 
Gawaine.  224. 
Gawain.  266. 
Geiievra,  224, 
Geottrey,  332. 
Geoffroy,  347. 
Geraint,  264. 
Gerasmes,  296. 
Gerona,  423. 
Gergon,  423. 
Gianor,  347. 
Gigacio,  347. 
Giglau.  260. 
Ginnistan,  vol.  ii.  505. 
Giramantes,  373. 
Glarforest,  242. 
Glodofard,  pi.,  242 
Gloriant,  324. 
Goifled,  227. 
Gorboduc,  240. 
Gouvernail,  198. 


Gouvernau.  251. 

Gradaffile,  369. 

Green  Isle,  373. 

Griand,  379. 

Gridoina,  385. 

Griedol,  197. 

Gucret,  268. 

Guerin  de  Monglave,  311. 

Guichard,  341. 

Guinday  Isle,  372. 

Guinglain,  471. 

Guron,  233. 

Guy,  327. 

Guyon  de  ]\Iayence,  328. 

Gwair,  197. 

Gwgo,  197. 

Gyngleyn,  471. 

Gyron,  233. 

Hebrons,  471. 

Hector,  252. 

Hector  of  Mares,  226. 

Helan.  371. 

Helias  the   Knight  of  the  Swan, 

337. 
Hermide,  pi,  380. 
Hippodania.  420. 
Holofernes.  348. 
Hidden  Isle,  297. 
Hugues,  315. 
Hunault,  312. 

Idorus,  243. 
Imogene,  239. 
Irion,  214. 
Iseult,  194. 
Isopes,  347. 

Jaequelina,  316. 
Jaquet,  254. 
Jeannette,  251. 
Josue,  246. 

Jourdain  de  Blaves,  32:j 
Joyeuse  Garde,  202. 

Kai,  197. 

Keux  or  Kay,  267. 

Kyrie  Eleison,  400. 

Lac,  235. 


602 


LIST    OF    PROPER    NAMES. 


Lamerock,  373. 
Lamorat,  471. 
Lancelot,  179. 
Langarde,  363. 
Laodogant,  223, 
Leonarda,  391. 
Leonida,  375. 
Leonorina,  365. 
Leyr,  240. 

Lindamor,  vol.  ii.  381. 
Lisuai'te,  369. 
Lodowick,  318. 
Logres  (person),  348. 
Logres  (place),  348. 
Lot,  265,  369. 
Loth,  268. 
Lubiane,  320. 
Lucca,  352. 
Luces,  245. 
Lyonnel,  245. 

Mabrian,  344. 

Macedon,  380. 
Malbron,  298. 
Malebranclie,  pi.,  243. 
Maloanc  Castel,  235, 
Marc,  196. 

Marcassin,  vol.  ii.  500. 
Marfida,  vol.  ii.  375. 
Marsilio,  288. 
MarsiliuS;  316. 
Marsirius,  340. 
Martha,  215. 
Massisius,  281. 
Maugis,  341. 
Meleagans,  265. 
Melia,  348. 
Meliadice,  260. 
Meliadus,  193. 
Melusine,  vol.  ii.  490. 
Merchion,  264. 
Merida,  423. 
Merlin,  458. 
Meurvin,  337. 
Milles  et  Amys,  317. 
Millon,  311. 
Milo,  276. 
Miraguarda,  390. 
Mirames,  347. 
Mirro,  queen,  420. 
Mongibel,  472. 


Montglave  (Lyons  ?),  3 11 . 
Montauban,  343. 
Montbrant,  301. 
Montfort,  342. 
Moraizel,  372. 
Mordred,  226. 
Moreau,  horse,  348. 
Morgaine,  360. 
Morgan,  336. 
Morgana,  334. 
Morgant,  345. 
Morhoult,  199,  204. 
Mussabelin,  383. 

Nectanebus,  426. 
Nestor,  245,  246. 
Niquea,  369. 
Nordrec,  214. 
Normal,  pi.,  253. 

Oberon,  218. 

Ogerius,  278. 

Olinda,  vol.  ii.  380. 

Olivante,  394. 
'    Olofer,  246. 
i    Olympia,  426. 

Onoloria,  364. 

Ophelia,  vol.  ii.  367. 

Oriana,  358. 

Oriande,  338. 

Oriania,  269. 

Oriant,  337. 

Ormedes,  385. 

Orhaey,  369. 

Orimonda.  218. 

Orlando  and  Hruodlandus,  278. 

Osmin,  vol.  ii.  327. 

Otnit,  310. 

Palamedes,  194,  201. 
Palmerin  d'Oliva,  379. 
Pandrasus,  239. 
Papillon,  hoi'se,  335. 
Parnienio,  241. 
Parthia,  376. 
Paustounet,  249. 
Pasimunda,  vol.  ii.  97. 
Passelion,  245. 
Perceforest,  239. 
Perceval,  173. 
Perdigon,  311,  313. 


LIST    OF    PROPER    NAMES. 


503 


Perdition.  Valley  of,  392. 
Perdue,  isle,  vol.  ii.  490. 
Pergambu,  244. 
Perilous  Isle,  390. 
Perilous  Mount,  254. 
Perion,  356. 
Ferona.  250. 
Pharamond,  198   225. 
Pheredin,  201. 
Philippon,  260. 
Pintiquinestra,  369. 
Polendos,  383, 
Polinarda,  380,  384. 
Polinda,  395. 
Pon-ex,  240. 
Portemoire,  254. 
Porus,  241,  427. 
Pousson,  249. 
Pridus,  389. 
Primaleon,  380,  384. 
Proserpine,  254. 
Proteus,  375, 
Pryderi,  197. 
Pyr,  241, 

Queux,  267. 

Raine,  347. 
Raowart,  demon,  338. 
Red  Lion,  217. 
Regmicio,  379. 
Regnier,  311,319. 
Renaud,  341. 
Reymucis,  383. 
Richard,  341. 
Richarda,  376. 
Riehardette,  344. 
Richer,  322.' 
Rinaldo,  340. 
Riton,  224, 

Rhetore  (Reotox-e'),  316. 
Robas,  312. 
Robastre,311. 
Rogel.  375. 
Romaricus,  276. 
Rommaine,  348. 
Rosaliana,  376. 
Rosiclair,  377. 
Roumy,  vol.  ii.  513, 
Ruggiero,  375. 
Runalen,  203. 


Ryon,  224. 
Rython,  224. 


Sadoine,  327. 

Saintre,  345. 

Sephiraman,  377. 

Scapiol,  246. 

Segurades,  200, 

Semire,  vol.  ii.  379. 

Sane  ion  (or  Yon),  343. 

Selvian,  389, 

Senapus,  373. 

Sibille,  243, 

Sidoina,  319, 

Sidonia,  372. 

Sorelloys,  243. 

Sorelois,  252. 

Sorgalant,  338. 
;    Sornehan,  269, 
j    Spheramond,  376. 
j    Spheramon,  377. 

Sphinx,  423. 

Stephen,  254. 

Sylvia,  370, 

1    Tallwch,  197. 
Targiana,  393. 
Tarisius,  379. 
Taul,  vol.  ii.  171. 
Ten  Steps,  Castel,  383, 
Terragant,  374, 
Terror,  Isle  of,  377. 
Tervagant,  217. 
Tharsus,  pi.,  384. 
Tintagel,  199, 
Tirante,  396. 
Tourmont,  297. 
Trineus,  381. 
Tristan.  193  and 
Tronc,  213. 
Trystan,  197. 

Ungan,  356. 
Universe  Tower,  369. 
Urganda,  362. 
Urgando,  380. 
Uter,  199. 

Valfondee,  pi.,  253. 


504 


LIST    OF    PROPEK    NAMES. 


Vanclere,  329. 
Vie,  Isle  de,  246. 
Villermes,  400. 
Vivian,  338. 

Windilisora,  356. 
Winwaloen,  471. 

Ygiierne,  199. 
Yon,  34  3. 
Yrcania,  pi.,  253. 


Yvain,  266. 
Yvoirin,  301. 
Ywaine,  224. 

Zario,  368. 
Zelmane.  378. 
Zenea.  360. 
Zirfea,  369. 
Zellandine,  248. 
Zephyr,  245. 


END    OF    VOL.    I. 


CHISVVICK    PRESS  :— C.    WHITTINGHAIVI    AND    CO.,    TOOKS     COURT,    CHANCERY    LANE. 


CHART  (FROM  M.  LANDAU'S  "QUEL;,EN 


THE  KAIilLA  VE  DiTVTNA 


',  of  the  diffusion  and  different  version 
J.  G.  N.  Kcilh-Falconers  Eiujl 


Lost  Biiddliistic  original  in  Sansli 


Arabic  versions  of  Abdallali  i\ 


!  de  Sacy's  Arabic  edit 
Dimna,  Paris.  1816. 

I 


•Spanish  MS.  translali. 
in  Library  of  Real  Ac 
dcinia  de  la  Hislori 
Madrid. 


Of  C.  II.  llolmboc, 
Calila  und  Dimna, 
Chrisliania,  1832. 


Knatchbull 
English  versio 
Oxford,  1810. 


rhilipp  Wolff,  Calila 
und  Dimna  oder  Die 
FabelnBidpai's.Stutt- 
gart,  1837.  Second 
edition.  Das  Buch  der 
Weisen,       Stutlgart, 


n,  thirteenth  century, 
:    Gayangos,   Madrid, 


Greek  version  of  Simeon  Seth,  Stephanites 
and  Ichnelates  (eleventh  century),  ed.  by 
S.  G.  Stark,  Berlin,  1697. 


Buch  der  Beispielc  dcr 
Alten  Weisen,  1480, 
and  Stuttgart,  1860. 


Danis: 
1618. 


Spanish  version,  Exom- 
plariocontralos  enganos 
y  peligros  del  raundo, 
Saragossa,  1493,  and 
many  later  editions. 


Doni,  T/'enice, 
1552,  aud  six 
later  ed'  tions. 


Bohemian  version 
of  N.  Konac, 
Prawidlo  lidskoho 
ziwota  of  the  fif- 
teenth century. 


Thomas  North's 
English  version, 
London,       1570 


Italian  version  (by 

Patoo-Slavonic 

Latin   version 

Latm    version 

G.      Nuti?),     Del 

ofS.  G.Stark, 

by   P.    Possi- 

Governo  dei  Regni, 

phanit.andlkh- 

Berlin,  1697. 

nus,  Specmien 

nilat.,    ed.    by 

1 

logna,  1872. 

B  u  1  g  a  k  0  f, 

1 

dorum    Vete. 

Abuschalem 

rum,     Rome, 

1878. 

und  sein  Hof- 
philosoph  von 
Rector     Leh- 

1666. 

mus,    Leipzig, 

DEKAMERON,"  1884)  SJIOWING  DIFFUSION 


MNA  AND  PANKIATANTRA. 


•lersiom  of  the  Fables  of  Bidpai,  see  the  Introdiution  t 
•  English  edition,  Camhridffc,  1885. 


Sanskrit  consisting  of  thirteen  books, 
version,  sixth  century. 


ll.ih  ibn  al-Mokaffa,  eighth  century., 
iter  Arabic  i-ersions. 


Canopus,  by  Ed. 
Eastwick,  Hert- 
ford, 1854. 


I  of  Nasr-Ailah, 


Livres  des  Lumieres, 
by  David  Said  (in- 
complete), Paris, 
1 644.  Fables  do 
Pilpay,  Paris,  1698. 

KalilaWadimnaPil- 
pay,  by  L.  Weber, 
Leipzig,  1802.  Be- 
tragen  der  Grossen 
und  Kleinen  von 
Vollgraf,  Eisenach, 
1803. 


Turkish    versio 
Nameh  (1540). 


Hindustani  ver- 
sion, Kirud 
Ulroz,  Calcutta, 
1815. 


Los  contes  et  faljles 
indiennes  de  Bidpai 
et  de  Lokman,  de 
Galland,  Paris, 
1 724.  Cardonne, 
Paris,  1778.  Loise- 
Icur  Deslong- 
champs,  1838. 

Enghsh  translation, 
1747  and  1754, 


..of  the  Caliph's 
son,  ninth  cen- 
tury (?).^ 


of  Belgemi. 
Poetical  version 


Syriac  version  — 
Kalilag  we  Dimnag 
(circ.  sixtll  cen- 
tury), ed.  by  G. 
Bickell,  Leipzig, 
1876,  Alte  Sy- 
rische  abersetzung 
des  Indischen  Fiirs- 


Later  Syriac  version, 
MS.Trin.  Coll.  Dublin, 
the  work  of  a  Chris- 
tian priest,  tenth  or 
eleventh  century,  ed. 
by  Dr.  W.  Wriglit, 
O.Hford,  1884. 


Kalilah  and  Dimnali, 
translated  from  the 
later  Syriac  version, 
with  notes  by  J.  G.N. 
Keith-Falconer,  Cam- 
bridge, 1883. 


Pantschatantra,  ed. 
Kosegarten,  Bonn, 

1848 ed.  Buhler- 

I  Kielhorn, 


Leipzig,  1859. 
French   translation 
of  Ed.  Lanccrcau, 
Paris,  1871. 


Greek  version 
by  D.  Galanos, 
llitopadesa     e 


Canadian-Tamnl 

latnd  by  Abbe 
J.  A.  Dubois,  Le 
Pantschatantra 


From  Halm's  "  Sagwissenschaftliulio  Studion,"  Jena,  1871. 
I.  Anoos. 


2.  Mother,  daughter  of  J 


II.  Aruob— Thede.=. 
li.   1.  CEdi. 


V    3.  Father,  a  god  or  a  btranger. 

.•!. 

I    4.  Omen  to  a  parent. 

4. 

5.  Hero,  in  consequence,  cx- 
]iosed. 

5. 

6.  Suckled  hy  brutes. 

fi. 

7.  Reared  hy  childless  herils- 

7 

Zeus. 

Oracle  to  maternal  grandfather 
Akrisius. 
5.  Put  to  sea  with  the  mother. 


fisherman  Diclys. 


8.  Arrogance  of  the  youth. 

9.  Service  ahroad. 


2.  Alcnnene  delivered  abroad. 


in.  Thebes.  IV.  Mmrj^in  The.ssai,t. 

being       1.  Amphion  and  Zcthus  (twins).  1.   Pelias  and  Nelens  (twins). 


ARYAN  EXPOSURE  AND 

VI,  Home. 
1.  Rumulus  and  liemus  (twins). 


2.  Antiope  delivered  in  prison. 


2.  Phylone,  daughter  of  Nytimc 

3.  Ares  (in  guise  of  shepherd). 


4.  Parents  warned  by  an  oracle.      4 4 ^ 

6.  Suspended  to  a  tree  on  Mount      5.  Exposed  on  land  by  his  mother      5.  Exposed  on  land  by  mother  (cf.      5.  Exposed  by  his  mother  on  Mount      5.  Exposed  by  him  in  the  Tiber. 
Cithieron.  (cl.  IV.  and  XII.).  m.,  V.,  and  XII.).  Erymanthns. 


4.  Prediction  to  Amulius(DioCas. 


7.  Reared  by  shepherds. 


8.  Kills  his  teacher  Lit 


9.  Serves  Euvystheus  and  Om- 
phalus. 


10.  First  and  second  expedition        10. 
of  the  Heracleidce  ;    third 
successful  j   cf.  Pandus  in 


Found  by  herdsmen  ;  reared      7.   Reared  by  herdsmei 
byPolybus,rulerofCorinthJ 
and  his  consort  Periboea. 


G 6,  Nelens  suckled  by  a  bitch. 

7.  Reared  by  horse-herds. 


6.  Suckled  by  a  wolf. 

7.  Reared   by   the   herdsman  Jy-       7.  Reared  by  the  herdsman  Faus- 

liphos.  tulus  and  Acca  Larentia  (who 

received  the  name  Lupa,cf .  X., 


9.  As  herdsmen. 


9.  As  herdsmen. 


9.  Asherdsmen;  accordingtootlier 
legends,  sons  of  a  slave  of  Tar« 
chetius,  King  of  Alba,  who  ex- 
posed them.  Lewis,  Hist. 
Rom.  (cf.  C:yrus,  X.). 


10. 


elurn  to  Seriphos  ;  petrifac- 
tion of  Polydektes  ;  liberation 
of  Danae  ;  return  to  Argos  j 
slaughter  of Akrisius;  receives 
the  sovereignty. 


Foundation  of  a  city. 
Extraordinary  death. 


Vengeance  of  the   injur* 


Slays    Laius,    and    becomes 
king    of     Thebes    in     his 


I'hey  win  the  dominion  of  Ar-     11.  Amulius  falls  ;  Rhea  liberated ; 
catlia.  the      maternal      grandfather 

Numitor    restored   (cf.   XII. 
Ugra). 


13.  Deathin  banishment ;  cf.  Diet-   13. 

rich,  Bellerophon. 

'ulnntarily  burnt  in  conse-        14.  Unwitting  incest  with  mother.  14. 
quence  of  having  been  poi- 
soned by  Deianira. 


L-i. 


12.  Rome. 

13.  Ascension  of  Romulus. 


15.  Brutus— Lucretia's  dishonour. 


ND  RETUEN  FORMULA. 
VII.  Atticj. 


by  moLher  (exception). 


VI 

II.    TlIIDJ 

:t!K 

-LEGEND. 

1.   Witlich.     In  this  fni-mula  the 
youth  ofDielrick,  the  chief 
hero,  is  omitted,  and  the 

B. 

I.  Saxon  Siogfiied. 

exposure 
Siegfried. 

trait  assigned  to 

2.  Bttthildo. 

2.     As     an     exception,     legiti- 
mately  born,  but  mother 
.     in  prison. 

3.  Wicland. 

3. 

7.  Reared  by  mother  (an  cxcep- 


Tliescus  ill  Crete, 


Dietrich  of  Bern  s 


By  accident  in  the  i 


By  the  childless  smith  Mil 


(9.  Siegfried  serves  Mimir.) 


IX.  Wolf 
Wolfdictrich. 


I'EUSIA. 


3.  Kambyses,  as  Persis 

4.  Maudane's  dreams. 


5.  Exposed  by  mother  for  conceal-  5.  Exposed    by   Astyages    in    the 

ment.     Variant,  by  order  of  mountain  forest  (cf,  I.,  4). 

father,  who  believes  him  be- 

6.  Carried  by  a  wolf  to  a  cave.  6.  Suckled  by  a  bitch. 


L'xccpuon,  legiti- 


Found  by  gi-andfather,  reared  s 
father's  (involvingj  however, 
contradiction). 


9.  Expelled  by  brothers  as  illegit 


By  cowherd  and  his  wife  called 
Bitch  (cf.  VI.,  the  analogy  of 
Acca  Larontia-Lupa). 

Strikes  the  young  noble. 

As  herdsman. 


2.  Ferenguis  (in  Biran'a  palace' 

Authenticity  of  MSS.  in  pari 
questionable.  See  Mobl 
To,r>.ii.,p.iv.). 

3.  Sijawescli,  as  Iranian  foreigne: 


7.  By  herd.smen. 

8.  His  arrogance  towards  tliem. 


2. 

Kunti. 

2.  Burn  of  Devaki  in  prison. 

3. 

The  Sun-god. 

3.  Vasudewa  Yadawa. 

4. 

By  the  mother  on  the  river. 

4.  Predictions  to  Kamsa,  the 
mother's  cousin. 

5. 

5.  Concealed  from  Kamsa  by  the 
father. 

6. 

6 

'• 

By   the    childless    waggoner 
Adhiratlia. 

7.  Beared  among  herdsmen. 

9.  Pandu;  service  of  King  Drau- 


10.  Pandion  and  sons  fly  to  Megara.         10.  Battle  of  Ravens  and  i 


10.  Unsuccessful  expedition  against     10. 
Byzantium. 


Flees  before  Afrasiab  to  Iran. 


eturn;  flees  again  from  Du- 
riodhana,  the  father's 
brother  (cf.  VIII.). 


rriuniphal  return  (jf  .f 
death  of  Pandinn  (r 
and  XII.,  A,  l.t). 


cli  s  fall;  succeeds  to  domii 


Astyages' dethri 


11.  Conquest    of    Tur 


1.  Victory  over  Kamsa ;  libera- 
tion of  hisparents;  restora- 
tion of  Ugra,  the  mother's 


alls  from  rocks  in  Skyros  (cf.         13.  Dietrich 


through  the  wilds,  eternally  hunting. 


black  horse     13.  Dies  i 


15.  Sibich  for  the  dishonour  of  his  spouse  Ottilia.  15.  Saben,  .son  of  Sibich,  the  dis-  15.  Anger  of  Harpago  on  account  of  15.  The    brothers    Guersiwez  and        15 

loyal.  his  son's  murder.  Afrasiab  executed. 

16.  Diether  slain  by  Wiltich;    Hermanrich's   anger  against  son  and     IC III.  Smerdis  slain  by  Cambyses.  16.  Firud  slain  by  Thous. 

nephew  (cf.  IV,). 


16.  Kama's  death  by  Ardschu 


CATALOGUE   OF 

BONN'S    LIBRARIES. 

;iS    ]\^iiinus,  ;f  15S  8 J.  6d. 


J^J5.—It  is  requested  that  all  orders  be  accompanied  by 
Myment.  Books  are  sent  carriage  free  on  the  receipt  of  the 
published  price  in  stamps  or  otherwise. 

The  Works  to  which  the  letters  *  TV.  6*.'  {denoting  New 
Style)  are  appended  are  kept  in  neat  cloth  bindings  of  various 
colours^  as  well  as  in  the  regular  Library  style.  All  Orders 
Q.re  executed  in  the  New  binding^  unless  the  contrary  is  ex- 
fressly  stated. 

Complete  Sets  or  Separate  Volumes  can  be  had  at  short 
notice^  half-bound  in  calf  or  morocco. 


New  Volumes  of  Standard  Works  in  the  various  branches 
of  Literature  are  constantly  being  added  to  this  Series^  which 
is  already  unsurpassed  in  respect  to  the  number^  variety^  and 
cheapness  of  the  Works  contained  in  it.  The  Publishers  beo- 
to  afinounce  the  following  Volumes  as  recently  issued  or  now 
in  preparation  : — 

Seneca's   Minor   Essays    and   On   Clemency.      Translated  by  A. 

Stewart,  M.A.  \,Ready.     Seep.  yL 

Schopenhauer  on  the  Fourfold  Root  and  on  the  Will  in  Nature. 

Translated  from  the  German.  \_Ready.     Sec  p.  o. 

Schumann's  Early  Letters.  \^Ready.    Seep.  8. 

Bond's  Handy  Book  of  Rules   and   Tables  for  Verifying  Dates 

WITH  THE  Christian  Era,  &c.  IReady.    Seep.  19. 

Chess  Congress,  1862.     Second  and  Cheaper  Edition. 

[Ready.     Seep.  18. 

Arthur   Young's   Travels    in    France.      Edited   by   Miss   Betham 

Edwards.     With  a  Portrait.  \_Ready.     Seep.  8. 

Johnson's  Lives  of  the  Poets.     Edited  by  Robina  Napier. 

\_In  the  press. 
The  Works  of  Flavins  Josephus.    Winston's  Translation.    Revised 

by  Rev.  A.  R.  Shilleto,  M.A.     With  Topographical  and  Geoeraphical  Notes 
by  Sir  C.  W.  Wilson,  K.C.M.G.  *    [/«  the  press. 

Hoffmann's  Works.     Translated  by  Lieut. -Colonel  Ewing.     Vol.  II. 

[In  the  p?-ess. 

North's  Lives  of  the  Norths. 

Pascal's  Thoughts.     Translated  by  C.  Kegan  Paul.  [/«  the  press. 

Bjornsen's  Arne  and  the  Fisher  Lassie.      Translated  by  W.   H. 

Low.  [In  the  press. 

Apollonius  Rhodius.     The  Argonautica.     Trans,  by  E.  P.  Coleridge. 
Racine's  Plays.     Translated  by  R.  B.  Bos  well. 

For  forthcoming  Volumes  in  the  SELECT  LIBRARY,  seep.  24. 


June,  1889. 


BONN'S     LIBRARIES. 


STANDARD    LIBRARY. 

322  Vols,  at  y.  6d.  each,  excepting  those  marked  otherwise,     (i^-jl.  is.  6d.) 


POETRY.  —  Sec   Poetry 


ADDISON'S  "Works.  Notes  of  Bishop 
Hurd.  Short  Memoir,  Portrait,  and  8 
Plates  of  Medals.     6  vols.     N.  S. 

This  is    the   most   complete    edition   of 
Addison's  Works  issued. 

ALFIERI'S  Tragedies.  In  English 
Verse.  With  Notes,  Arguments,  and  In- 
troduction, by  E.  A.  Bowring,  C.B.  2  vols. 
N.S. 

AMERICAN 

0/  America. 

BACON'S    Moral    and    Historical 

"Works,  including  Essays,  Apophthegms, 
Wisdom  of  the  Ancients,  New  Atlantis, 
Henry  VII.,  Henry  VIII.,  Elizabeth, 
Henry  Prince  of  Wales,  History  of  Great 
Britain,  Julius  Caesar,  and  Augustus  Caesar. 
With  Critical  and  Biographical  Introduc- 
tion and  Notes  by  J.  Devey,  M.A.  Por- 
trait. N.  S. 
See  also  Philosophical  Library, 

BALLADS  AND  SONGS  of  the  Pea- 
santry of  England,  from  Oral  Recitation, 
private  MSS.,  Broadsides,  &c.  Edit,  by 
R.  Bell.     N.  S. 

BEAUMONT       AND       FLETCHER. 

Selections.     With  Notes  and  Introduction 
by  Leigh  Hunt. 

BECKMANN  (J.)  History  of  Inven- 
tions, Discoveries,  and  Origins.  With 
Portraits  of  Beckmann  and  James  Watt. 
2  vols.     N.  S. 


-Set  Ballads,  Chaucer, 


BELL  (Robert). 

Gretn. 

BOS"WELLS  Life  of  Johnson,  with 
the  TOUR  in  the  HEBRIDES  and 
JOHNSONIANA.  New  Edition,  with 
Notes  and  Appendices,  by  the  Rev.  A. 
Napier,  M.A.,  Trinity  College,  Cam- 
bridge, Vicar  of  Holkham,  Editor  of  the 
Cambridge  Edition  of  the  '  Theological 
Works  of  Barrow.'  With  Frontispiece  to 
each  vol.     6  vols.     N.S, 

BREMER'S       (Frederlka)      "Works. 

Trans,  by  M.  Howitt.  Portrait.  4  vcls.  ^V.^". 


BRINK  (B.  T.)  Early  English  Litera- 
ture (to  Wiclif).  By  Bernhard  Ten  Brink. 
Trans,  by  Prof.  H.  M.  Kennedy.     N.  S. 

BRITISH  POETS,  from  Milton  to  Kirke 
White.  Cabinet  Edition.  With  Frontis- 
piece.    4  vols.     N.  S. 

BRO"WNE'S   (Sir    Thomas)   "Works. 

Edit,  by  S.  Wilkin,  with  Dr.  Johnson's 
Life  of  Browne.     Portrait.     3  vols. 

BURKE'S  "Works.    6  vols.    N.  S. 

Speeches  on  the  Impeachment 

of  Warren  Hastings  ;  and  Letters.  2  vols. 
N.  S. 

Life.     By  J.  Prior.     Portrait.     N.  S. 

BURNS  (Robert).  Life  of.  By  J.  G. 
Lockhart,  D.C.L.  A  new  and  enlarged 
edition.  With  Notes  and  Appendices  by 
W.  S.  Douglas.     Portrait.     N.  S. 

BUTLER'S   (Bp.)   Analogy  of  Reli- 

gion;  Natural  and  Revealed,  to  the  Con- 
stitution and  Course  of  Nature  ;  with  Two 
Dissertations  on  Identity  and  Virtue,  and 
Fifteen  Sermons.  With  Introductions, 
Notes,  and  Memoir.     Portrait.     N.  S. 

CAMOEN'S  Lusiad,  or  the  Discovery 
of  India.  An  Epic  Poem.  Trans,  from 
the  Portuguese,  with  Dissertation,  His- 
torical Sketch,  and  Life,  by  W.  J.  Mickle. 
5th  edition.     N.  S. 

CARAFAS     (The)      of     Maddalonl. 

Naples  under  Spanish  Dominion.  Trans, 
by  Alfred  de  Reumont.  Portrait  of  Mas- 
saniello. 

CARREL.    The  Counter-Revolutlon 

in  England  for  the  Re-establishment  01 
Popery  under  Charles  II.  and  James  II., 
by  Armand  Carrel  ;  with  Fox's  History  of 
James  II.  and  Lord  Lonsdale's  Memoir  of 
James  II.     Portrait  of  Carrel. 

CARRUTHERS.  -  J^*  Popt,  in  lUus- 
trated  Library. 


BOHN'S  LIBRARIES. 


GARY'S  Dante.  The  Vision  of  Hell, 
Purgatory,  and  Paiadise.  Trans,  by  Rev. 
H.  F.  Gary,  M.A.  With  Life,  Chronolo- 
gical View  of  his  Age,  Notes,  and  Index 
of  Proper  Names.     Portrait.     N.  S. 

This  is  the  authentic  edition,  containing 
Mr.  Carj''s  last  corrections,  with  additional 
notes. 

CELLINI  (Benvenuto).    Memoirs  of, 

by  himself.  With  Notes  of  G.  P.  Carpani. 
Trans,  by  T.  Roscoe.     Portrait.     N.  S. 

CERVANTES'    Galatea.      A    Pastoral 

Romance.    Trans,  by  G.W.J.  Gyll.    N.S. 

Exemplary   Novels.      Trans,    by 

W.  K.  Kelly.     N.  S. 

Don    Quixote    de    la    Mancha. 

Motteux's  Translation  revised.  With  Lock- 
hart's  Life  and  Notes.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

CHAUCER'S  Poetical  Works.  With 
Poems  formerly  attributed  to  him.  With  a 
Memoir,  Introduction,  Notes,  and  a  Glos- 
sary, by  R.  Bell.  Improved  edition,  with 
Preliminary  Essay  by  Rev.  W.  W.  Skeat, 
M.A.     Portrait.     4  vols.     N.  S. 

CLASSIC  TALES,  containing  Rasselas, 
Vicar  of  Wakefield,  Gulliver's  Travels,  and 
The  Sentimental  Journey.     N.  S. 

COLERIDGE'S  (S.  T.)  Friend.  A  Series 
of  Essays  on  Morals,  Politics,  and  Reli- 
gion      Portrait.     N.  S. 

Aids  to  Reflection.    Confessions 

of  an  Inquiring  Spirit ;  and  Essay's  on 
Faith  and  the  Common  Prayer-book.  N  ew 
Edition,  revised.     N.  S. 

Table-Talk   and   Omniana.     By 

T.  Ashe,  B.A.     N.S. 

Lectures     on     Shakspere     and 

other  Poets.    Edit,  by  T.  Ashe,  B.A.  N.S. 
Containing  the  lectures  taken  down  in 
181 1-12   by  J.   P.    Collier,  and   those   de- 
livered at  Bristol  in  181 3. 

Blographia  Literarla;  or,  Bio- 
graphical Sketches  of  my  Literary  Life 
and  Opinions ;  with  Two  Lay  Sermons. 
N.S, 

Miscellanies,    .Ssthetic    and 

Literary  ;  to  which  is  added,  The  Theory 
OF  Life.  Collected  and  arranged  by 
T.Ashe,  B.A.     N.S. 

COMMINES.— ^f«  Philip. 

CONDE'S  History  of  the  Dominion 

of  the  Arabs  in  Spain.     Trans,  by  Mrs, 
Foster.       Portrait    of    Abderahmen    ben    I 
Moavia.     3  vols. 

COWPER'S  CompleteWorks,  Poems, 

Correspondence,  and  Translations.  Edit, 
with  Memoir  by  R.  Southey.  45  En- 
gravings.    8  vols.  I 


COXE'S  Memoirs   of  the  Duke  of  j 

Marlborough.     With   his   original   Corre-  \ 

spondence,  from  family  records  at  Blen-  ' 
heim.    Revised  edition.    Portraits.    3  vols. 

*^*    An    Atlas  of  the    plans   of    Marl-  - 

borough's  campaigns,  4to.  lo^.  (>d.  , 

History  of  the  House  of  Austria. 

From  the  Foundation  of  the  Monarchy  by  '■ 

Rhodolph  of  Hapsburgh  to  the  Death  of  \ 
Leopold  II.,  1218-1792.     By  Archdn.  Coxe. 

With  Continuation  from  the  Accession  of  : 

Francis    I.    to    the    Revolution    of    1848.  | 

4  Portraits.     4  vols.  \ 

CUNNINGHAM^S  Lives  of  the  most 

Eminent    British   Painters.      With  Notes         ■ 

and  16  fresh  Lives  by  Mrs.  Heaton.  ^  vols. 
N.S. 

DEFOE'S  Novels  and  Miscellaneous 

Works.      With    Prefaces  and    Notes,    in-         ! 
eluding  those  attributed  to  Sir  W.  Scott. 
Portrait.     7  vols.     N.  S. 

DE  LOLME'S  Constitution  of  Eng-       ] 

land,  in  which  it  is  compared  both  with  the  j 
Republican  form  of  Government  and  the  'j 
other  Monarchies  of  Europe.  Edit.,  with  \ 
Life  and  Notes,  by  J.  Macgregor,  M.P. 

DUNLOP'S  History  of  Fiction.    With        \ 
Introduction  and  Supplement  adapting  the         1 
work  to  present  requirements.     By  Henry 
Wilson.     2  vols.,  55.  each. 

EMERSON'S     Works.      3   vols.      Most 

complete  edition  published.     N.  S.  i 

Vol.  I.— Essays,  Lectures,  and  Poems,  ■ 

Vol.  II. — English    Traits,  Nature,    and         \ 

Conduct  of  Life. 
Vol.  III. — Society  and  Solitude — Letters         ; 

and   Social    Aims — Miscellaneous    Papers         ; 

(hitherto  uncollected) — May-Day,  &c. 

FOSTER'S    (John)    Life  and  Corre- 
spondence.    Edit,  by  J.  E.  Ryland.     Por-         1 
trait.     2  vols.     ^.V.  6".  j 

Lectures  at  Broadmead  Chapel.         I 

Edit,  by  J.  E.  Ryland.     2  vols.     A^.  ^.  | 

Critical    Essays  contributed  to         ' 

the  '  Eclectic    Review.'      Edit,   by  J.  E.  i 

Rj-land.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

Essays  :  On  Decision  of  Charac- 
ter ;  on  a  Man's  writing  Memoirs  of  Him-  j 
self ;    on   the    epithet   Romantic  ;    on   the  i 
aversion  of  Men  of  Taste  to  Evangelical  i 
Religion.     N.  S.  | 

Essays  on  the  Evils  of  Popular 

Ignorance,  and  a  Discourse  on  the  Propa- 
gation of  Christianity  in  India.     N.  S. 

Essay  on  the  Improvement  of         j 

Time,    with  Notes  of  Sermons  and  other  1 

Pieces.     N.  S. 

Fosteriana  :  selected  from  periodical  \ 

papers,  edit,  by  H.  G.  Bohn.     A.  ^S". 


STANDARD  LIBRARY. 


FOX  (Rt.  Hon.  C.  Z.)—See  Carrel. 

GIBBON'S  Decline  and  Fall  of  the 

Roman  Empire.  Complete  and  unabridged, 
with  variorum  Notes ;  including  those  of 
Guizot,  Wenck,  Niebuhr,  Hugo,  Neander, 
and  others.  7  vols.  2  Maps  and  Portrait. 
N.S. 

GOETHE'S  Works.  Trans,  into  English 
by  E.  A.  Bowring,  C.B.,  Anna  Swanwick, 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  &c.  &c.     13  vols      N.  S. 

Vols.  I.  and  II. — Autobiography  and  An- 
nals.    Portrait. 

Vol.  III.— Faust.     Complete. 

Vol.  IV. — Novels  and  Tales  :  containing 
Elective  Affinities,  Sorrows  of  Werther, 
The  German  Emigrants,  The  Good  Wo- 
men, and  a  Nouvelette. 

Vol.  V. — Wilhelm  Meister's  Apprentice- 
ship. 

Vol.  VI. — Conversations  with  Eckerman 
and  Soret. 

Vol.  VII. — Poems  and  Ballads  in  the  ori- 
ginal Metres,  including  Hermann  and 
Dorothea. 

Vol.  VIII.— Gotz  von  Berlichingen,  Tor- 
quato  Tasso,  Egmont,  Iphigenia,  Clavigo, 
Wayward  Lover,  and  Fellow  Culprits. 

Vol.  IX. —  Wilhelm  Meister's  Travels. 
Complete  Edition. 

Vol.  X.  —  Tour  in  Italy.  Two  Parts. 
And  Second  Residence  in  Rome. 

Vol.  XL— Miscellaneous  Travels,  Letters 
from  Switzerland,  Campaign  in  France, 
Siege  of  Mainz,  and  Rhine  Tour. 

Vol.  XII. — Early  and  Miscellaneous 
Letters,  including  Letters  to  his  Mother, 
with  Biography  and  Notes. 

Vol.  XIII  .—Correspondence  with  Zelter. 

Correspondence  with   Schiller. 

2  vols. — See  Schiller. 

GOLDSMITH'S  Works.    5  vols.    N.S. 

Vol.  I.— Life, Vicar  of  Wakefield,  Essays, 
and  Letters. 

Vol.  II.— Poems,  Plays,  Bee,  Cock  Lane 
Ghost. 

Vol.  III.— The  Citizen  of  the  World, 
Polite  Learning  in  Europe. 

Vol.  IV. — Biographies,  Criticisms,  Later 
Essays. 

Vol.  v.— Prefaces,  Natural  History, 
Letters,  Goody  Two-Shoes,  Index. 

GREENE,   MARLOW^,  and   BEN 

JONSOX  (Poems  oQ.  With  Notes  and 
Memoirs  by  R.  Bell.     N.  S. 

GREGORYS    (Dr.)    The   Evidences, 

Doctrines,  and  Duties  of  the  Christian  Re- 
ligion. 

GRIMM'S  Household  Tales.  With  the 
Grig  nal  Notes.  Trans,  by  Mrs.  A.  Hunt. 
Introduction  by  Andrew  Lang,  M.A.  2 
vols.     N.S. 


QUIZOT'S  History  of  Representative 

Government  in  Europe.  Trans,  by  A.  R. 
Scoble. 

English  Revolution  of  1640.  From 

the  Accession  of  Charles  I.  to  his  Death. 
Trans,  by  W.  Haziitt.     Portrait. 

History  of  Civilisation.    From  the 

Roman  Empire  to  the  French  Revolution. 
Trans,  by  W.  Haziitt.     Portraits.    3  vols 

HALL'S   (Rev.  Robert)  W^orks  and 

Remains.  Memoir  by  Dr.  Gregory  and 
Essay  by  J.  Foster.     Portrait. 

HAUFF'S    Tales.     The   Caravan  — The 

Sheikh  of  Alexandria  —  The  Inn  in  the 
Spessart.  Translated  by  Prof.  S.  Mendel. 
N.  S. 

HAWTHORNE'S  Tales.    3  vols.    A^.  6^. 

Vol.  I. — Twice-told  Tales,  and  the  Snow 
Image. 

Vol.  II. — Scarlet  Letter,  and  the  House 
with  Seven  Gables. 

Vol.  III. — Transformation,  and  Blithe- 
dale  Romance. 

HAZLITTS  (W.)  Works.   t\q\s,.N.S. 
Table-Talk. 

The  Literature   of  the  Age    of 

Elizabeth  and  Characters  of  Shakespeare's 
Plays.     N.  S. 

English  Poets  and  English  Comic 

Writers.     .V.  6-. 

The  Plain  Speaker.    Opinions  on 

Books,  Men,  and  Things.     N.  S. 

Round     Table.      Conversations     of 

James  Northcote,  R.A.  ;  Characteristics. 
N.S. 

Sketches  and  Essays,  and  Winter- 
slow.     N.  S. 

Spirit  of  the  Age ;  or,  Contem- 
porary Portraits.  To  which  are  added 
Free  Thoughts  on  Public  Affairs,  and  a 
Letter  to  William  Giflford.  New  Edition 
by  W.  Carew  Haziitt.     N.  S. 

HEINE'S  Poems.  Translated  in  the 
original  Metres,  with  Life  by  E.  A.  Bow- 
ring,  C.B.     A'.  5. 

Travel-Pictures.    The  Tour  in  the 

Harz,  Norderney,  and  Book  of  Ideas,  to- 
gether with  the  Romantic  School.  Trans, 
by  F.  Storr.  With  Maps  and  Appendices. 
N.  S. 

HOFFMANN'S  Works.  The  Serapion 
Brethren.  Vol.  1.  Trans,  by  Lt.-Col. 
Ewing.     N.  S.  Wol.  II.  in  the  press. 


BONN'S  LIBRARIES. 


HUGO'S  (Victor)  Dramatic  Works; 

Hernani — RuyBlas — TheKiag's  Diversion. 
Translated  by  Mrs.  Newton  Crosland  and 
F.  L.  Slous.     ^V.  6-. 

Poems,  chiefly  Lyrical.     Collected  by 

H.  L.  Williams.     N.  S. 

This  volume  contains  contributions  from 
F.  S.  Mahoney,  G.  W.  M.  Reynolds, 
Andrew  Lang,  Edwin  Arnold,  Mrs.  Newton 
Crosland,  Miss  Fanny  Kemble,  Bishop 
Alexander,  Prof.  Dowden,  &c, 

HUNGARY:  its  History  and  Revo- 
lution, with  Memoir  of  Kossuth.    Portrait. 

HUTCHINSON    (Colonel).    Memoirs 

of.  By  his  Widow,  with  her  Autobio- 
graphy, and  the  Siege  of  Lathom  House. 
Portrait.     N.  S. 

IRVING'S    (Washington)    Complete 

Works.     15  vols.     N.  S. 

Life  and  Letters.    By  his  Nephew, 

Pierre  E.  Irving.  With  Index  and  a 
Portrait.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

JAMES'S  (G.  P.  R.)  Life  of  Richard 

Cceur  de  Lion.  Portraits  of  Richard  and 
Philip  Augustus.     2  vols. 

Louis  XIV.     Portraits.     2  vols. 

JAMESON    (Mrs.)      Shakespeare's 

Heroines.  Characteristics  of  Women.  By 
Mrs.  Jameson.     N.  S. 

JEAN  PAUL See  Richter. 

JONSON  (Ben).  Poems  of.— ^-^^GV^^w*. 

JUNIUS 'S  Letters.  With  Woodfall's 
Notes.  An  Essay  on  the  Authorship.  Fac- 
similes of  Handwriting.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

LA  FONTAINE'S  Fables.  In  English 
Verse,  with  Essay  on  the  Fabulists.  By 
Elizur  Wright.     N.  S. 

LAMARTINE'S    The    Girondists,  or 

Personal  Memoirs  of  the  Patriots  of  the 
French  Revolution.  Trans,  by  H.  T. 
Ryde.  Portraits  of  Robespierre,  Madame 
Roland,  and  Charlotte  Corday.     3  vols. 

— —  The    Restoration    of  Monarchy 

in    France  (a  Sequel   to  The   Girondists). 

5  Portraits.     4  vols. 

The  French  Revolution  of  1848. 

6  Portraits. 

LAMB'S  (Charles)  Elia  and  Eliana. 

Complete  Edition.     Portrait.     iV.  .S". 

Specimens  of  English  Dramatic 

Poets  of  the  time  of  Elizabeth.  Notes, 
with  the  Extracts  from  the  Garnck  Plays. 
N.S. 

' Talfourd's    Letters  of   Charles 

Lamb.  New  Edition,  by  W.  Carew 
Hazlitt.     2  vols.     N.S. 


LANZI'S   History   of  Painting   in 

Italy,  from  the  Period  of  the  Revival  of         ' 
the    Fine    Arts  to    the    End   of  the  18th         ; 
Century.      With   Memoir  of  the   Author.         ' 
Portraits   of  Raffaelle,   Titian,    and    Cor- 
reggio,  after  the  Artists  themselves.    Trans, 
by  T.  Roscoe.     3  vols.  j 

LAPPENBERGS  England  under  the        | 

Anglo-Saxon  Kings.    Trans,  by  B.Thorpe,         | 
F.S.A.     2  vols.     N.S.  j 

LESSING'S  Dramatic  Works.  Com-  j 
plete.  By  E.  Bell,  M.A.  With  Memoir  j 
by  H.  Zinrunern.     Portrait.     2  vols.   N,  S.        ,j 

Laokoon,  Dramatic  Notes,  and        \ 

Representation  of  Death  by  the  Ancients.         , 
Frontispiece.     N.  S.  , 

LOCKE'S  Philosophical  Works,  con- 
taining  Human  Understanding,  with  Bishop  ' 
of  Worcester,  Malebranche's  Opinions,  Na-  | 
tural  Philosophy,  Reading  and  Study.  | 
With  Preliminary  Discourse,  Analysis,  and  I 
Notes,  by  J.  A.  St.  John.  Portrait.  2  vols. 
N.S. 

— -  Life  and  Letters,  with  Extracts  from 
his  Common-place  Books.     By  Lord  King. 

LOCKHART  (J.  G.)— ^^^  Bums. 

LONSDALE  (Lord).— 6"^^  Carrel.  I 

LUTHER'S  Table-Talk.  Trans,  by  W. 
Hazlitt.  With  Life  by  A.  Chalmers,  and 
Luther's  Catechism.  Portrait  after 
Cranach.     N,  S. 

Autobiography. — See  Mkhelet. 

MACHIAVELLI'S  History  of  Flo- 
rence, The  Prince,  Savonarola,  Historical 
Tracts,  and  Memoir.     Portrait.     N.  S. 

MARLOWE.     Poems  oi.—See  Greetie. 

MARTINEAU'S     (Harriet)    History 

of  England  1  including  History  of  the.Peace) 
from  1 800- 1 846.     5  vols.    N.S. 

MEN Z EL'S    History    of   Germany, 

from    he   Earliest  Period  to  the  Crimean 
War.        Portraits.     3  vols. 

MICHELET'S    Autobiography    of 

Luther.      Trans,   by   W.    Hazlitt.      With 
Notes.     A^.  .$•. 

The  French    Revolution   to   the 

Flight  of  the  King  in  1791.     N.  S. 

MIGNET'S  The  French   Revolution, 

from  1789  to  1814.     Portrait  of  Napoleon. 

N.S. 

MILTON'S  Prose  Works.  With  Pre- 
face.  Preliminary  Remarks  by  J.  A.  St. 
John,  and  Index.     5  vols. 

MITFORD'S    (Miaa)    Our    Village. 

Sketches  of  Rural  Character  and  Scenery. 
2  Engravings.     2  vols,     N.  S. 


STANDARD  LIBRAE  Y. 


MOLIERE'S    Dramatic    Works.     Ij    { 

English  Prose,   by  C.   H.  Wall.     With  a 
Life  and  a  Portrait.     3  vols.     N.  S.  I 

'  It  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  we  have    1 
here    probably   as    good   a    translation    of 
Moliere  as  can  be    given.' — Academy. 
MONTAGU.    Letters  and  Works  of 
Lady    ALiry    Wortley    Montagu.       Lord 
Whamcliffes   Third   Edition.     Edited   by    I 
W.  Moy  Thomas.     With  steel  plates.     2    1 
vols.     s-v-.  each.     N.  S. 

MONTESQUIEU'S    Spirit    of   Laws. 

Revised  Edition,  with  D"Alembert's  Analy- 
sis, Notes,  and  Memoir.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

NEANDER    (Dr.  A.)    History  of  the 

Christian  Religion  and  Church.     Trans,  by 
J.  Torrey.     With  Short  Memoir.     lo  vols. 

Life  of  JosTis  Christ,  in  its  His- 
torical Connexion  and  Development.   N.  S. 

The   Planting  and  Training  of   ' 

the    Christian    Church    by  the    Apostles,    i 
With  the  Antignosticus,  or  Spirit  of  Ter- 
tuUian.     Trans,  by  J.  E.  Ryland.     2  vols. 

Lectures     on     the     History    of 

Christian   Dogmas.     Trans,  by  J.  E.  Ry- 
land.    2  vols. 

• Memorials  of  Christian  Life  in 

the  Early  and    Middle    Ages ;    including    j 
Light  in  Dark  Places.     Trans,  by  J.  E. 
Ryland. 

OCKLEY  (S.)  History  of  the  Sara- 
cens and  their  Conquests  in  Syria,  Persia, 
and  Egypt.  Comprising  the  Lives  of 
Mohammed  and  his  Successors  to  the 
Death  of  Abdalmelik,  the  Eleventh  Caliph. 
By  Simon  Ockley,  B.D.,  Prof,  of  Arabic 
in  Univ.  of  Cambridge.  Portrait  of  Mo- 
hammed. 

PERCY'S  Reliques  of  Ancient  Eng-  I 
lish  Poetry,  consisting  of  Ballads,  Songs,  ! 
and  other  Pieces  of  our  earlier  Poets,  with 
some  few  of  later  date.  With  Essay  on  1 
Ancient  Minstrels,  and  Glossary.  2  vols.  ! 
A'.  S.  I 

PHILIP   DE  COMMINES.    Memoirs 
of.     Containing  the  Histories  of  Louis  XI.    | 
and  Charles  VIIL,  and  Charles  the  Bold,     | 
Duke  of  Bi'rgundy.     With  the  History  of 
Louis  XL,  by  J.  de  Troyes.    With  a  Life    ; 
and  Notes  by  A.  R.  Scoble.      Portraits. 
2  vols. 

PLUTARCH'S    LIVES.     Newly  Trans-    ' 
lated,     with     Notes     and     Life,     by    A     '■ 
Stewart,    ^LA.,    late    Fellow    of   Trinity    ' 
College,  Cambridge,  and  G.  Long,  M.A. 
4  vols.     N.  S. 

POETRY  OF  AMERICA.  Selections 
from  One  Hundred  Poets,  from  1776  to 
1876.  With  Introductory  Review,  and 
Specimens  of  Negro  Melody,  by  W.  J. 
Linton.     Portrait  of  W.  Whitman.     N.  S. 

RANEE  (L.)    History  of  the  Popes, 

their  Church  and  State,  and  their  Conflicts 


with  Protestantism  in  the  i6th  and  17th 
Centuries.  Trans,  by  E.  Foster.  Portraits 
of  Julius  II.  (after  Raphael),  Innocent  X. 
(after  Velasquez),  and  Clement  VII.  (after 
Titian).     3  vols.     N.  S. 

History  of  Servia.    Trans,  by  Mrs. 

Kerr.  To  which  is  added.  The  Slave  Pro- 
vinces of  Turkey-,  by  Cyprien  Robert.  J\^.  S. 

History  of  the  Latin  and  Teu- 
tonic Nations.  1494-1514.  Trans,  by 
P.  A.  Ashworth,  translator  of  Dr.  Gneist's 
'  History  ofthe  English  Constitution.'  ^i.S. 

REUMONT  (Alfred  de).—Se.'  Cara/as. 
REYNOLDS' (Sir  J.)  Literary  Works. 
With  Memoir  and  Remarks  by  H.  W. 
Beechy.  2  vols,  N.  S. 
RICH  TER  (Jean  Paul).  Levana, 
a  Treatise  on  Education  ;  together  with  the 
Autobiography,  and  a  short  Klemoir.    N.S, 

Flower,  Fruit,  and  Thorn  Pieces, 

or  the  Wedded  Life,  Death,  and  Marriage 
of  Siebenkaes.  Translated  by  Alex.  Ewing. 
N.  S. 

The  only  complete  English  translation. 
ROSCOE'S  (W^.)  Life  of  Leo  X.,  with 
Notes,  Historical  Documents,  and  Disser- 
tation  on   Lucretia    Borgia.     3   Portraits. 
2  vols. 

Lorenzo   de'  Medici,  called    'The 

Magnificent,'  with  Copyright  Notes, 
Poems,  Letters,  &c.  With  Memoir  of 
Roscoe  and  Portrait  of  Lorenzo. 
RUSSIA,  History  of,  from  the 
earliest  Period  to  the  Crimean  War.  By 
W.  K.  Kelly.  3  Portraits.  2  vols. 
SCHILLER'S  W^orks.    7  vols.    N.  S. 

Vol.  I.— History  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War. 
Rev.  A.  J.  W.  Morrison,  M.A.     Portrait. 

Vol.  II.— History  of  the  Revolt  in  the 
Netherlands,  the  Trials  of  Counts  Egmont 
and  Horn,  the  Siege  of  Antwerp,  and  the 
Disturbance  of  France  preceding  the  Reign 
of  Henry  IV.  Translated  by  Rev.  A.  J.  W. 
Morrison  and  L.  Dora  Schmitz. 

Vol.  III.— Don  Carlos.  R.  D.  Boylan 
— Mary  Stuart.  Mellish — Maid  of  Or- 
leans. Anna  Swanwick — Bride  of  Mes- 
sina. A.  Lodge,  M.A.  Together  with  the 
Use  of  the  Chorus  in  Tragedy  (a  short 
Essay).     Engravings. 

These  Dramas  are  all  translated  in  metre. 

Vol.  IV. — Robbers — Fiesco — Love  and 
Intrigue — Demetrius — Ghost  Seer — Sport 
of  1  livinity. 

The  Dramas  in  this  volume  are  in  prose. 

Vol.  v.— Poems.     E.  A.  Bowring,  C.B. 

Vol.  VL— Essays,  i^sthetical  and  Philo- 
sophical, including  the  Dissertation  on  the 
Connexion  between  the  Animal  and  Spiri- 
tual in  Man. 

Vol.  VII.  — Wallenstein's  Camp.  J. 
Churchill.  —  Piccolomini  and  Death  of 
Wallenstein.  S.  T.  Coleridge.— William 
Tell.  Sir  Theodore  Martin,  K.C.B.,  LL.D. 


BONN'S  LIBRARIES. 


SCHILLER  and  GOETHE.  Corre- 
spondence between,  from  a.d.  1794-1805. 
With  Short  Notes  by  L.  Dora  Schmitz. 
2  vols.     N.  S. 

SCHLEGEL'S  (F.)  Lectures  on  the 
Philosophy  of  Life  and  the  Philosophy  of 
Language.     By  A.  J.  W.  Morrison. 

The  History  of  Literature,  Ancient 

and  Modern. 

The  Philosophy  of  History.  With 

Memoir  and  Portrait. 

Modern  History,  with  the  Lectures 

entitled  Caesar  and  Alexander,  and  The 
Beginning  of  our  History.  By  L.  Purcel 
and  R.  H.  Whitelock. 

.Esthetic    and    Miscellaneous 

Works,  containing  Letters  on  Christian 
Art,  Essay  on  Gothic  Architecture,  Re- 
marks on  the  Romance  Poetry  of  the  Mid- 
dle Ages,  on  Shakspeare,  the  Limits  of  the 
Beautiful,  and  on  the  Language  and  Wis- 
dom of  the  Indians.     By  E.  J.  Millington. 

SCHLEGEL  (A.  W.)  Dramatic  Art 
and  Literature.  By  J.  Black.  With  Me- 
moir by  A.  J.  W.  Morrison.     Portrait. 

SCHUMANN  (Robert),  His  Life  and 

Works.  By  A.  Reissmann.  Trans,  by 
A.  L.  Alger.     N.  S. 

Early  Letters.     Translated  by  May 

Herbert.     X.S. 

SHAKESPEARE'S  Dramatic  Art. 
The  Historj^  and  Character  of  Shakspeare's 
Plays.  By  Dr.  H.  Ulrici.  Trans,  by  L. 
Dora  Schmitz.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

SHERIDAN'S  Dramatic  Works.  With 

Memoir     Portrait  (after  Reynolds).    N,  S. 

SKEAT  (Rev.  W.  W.)— ^^^^  Chaucer. 

SISMONDI'S  History  of  the  Litera- 

ture  of  the  South  of  Europe.  With  Notes 
and  Memoir  by  T.  Roscoe.  Portraits  of 
Sismondi  and  Dante.     2  vols. 

The  specimens  of  early  French,  Italian, 
Spanish,  and  Portugese  Poetry,  in  English 
Verse,  by  (Za.ry  and  others. 
SBIITH'S  (Adam)  The  Wealth  of 
Nations.  An  Inquiry  into  the  Nature  and 
Causes  of.  Reprinted  from  the  Sixth 
Edition.  With  an  Introduction  by  Ernest 
Belfort  Bax.    2  vols.     N.  S. 


SMITH'S  (Adam)  Theory  of  Moral 

Sentiments  ;  with  Essay  on  the  First  For- 
mation of  Languages,  and  Critical  Memoir 
by  Dugald  Stewart. 
SMYTH'S  (Professor)  Lectures  on 
Modern  History  ;  from  the  Irruption  of  the 
Northern  Nations  to  the  close  of  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution,  2  vols. 
Lectures  on  the  French  Revolu- 
tion.    With  Index.     2  vols. 

SOUTHEY See    Coiv/>er,     Wesley,    and 

{Illustrated  Library)  Nelson. 
STURM'S    Morning    Communings 
with   God,  or  Devotional  Meditations  for 
Every  Day.  Trans,  by  W.  Johnstone,  M.A. 
SULLY.    Memoirs  of  the  Duke  of, 
Prime  Minister  to  Henrj'  the  Great,    With 
Notes  and  Historical  Introduction.     4  Por- 
traits.   4  vols. 
TAYLOR'S    (Bishop    Jeremy)    Holy 
Living  and  Dying,  with  Prayers,  contain- 
ing the  Whole  Dutj'  of  a  Christian  and  the 
parts  of  Devotion  fitted  to  all  Occasions. 
Portrait.     N.  S. 
THIERRY'S  Conquest  of  England  by 
the  Normans ;    its  Causes,  and  its  Conse- 
quences  in   England   and   the   Continent. 
By  W.  Hazlitt.  With  short  Memoir.  2  Por- 
traits.     2  vols.    N.  S. 
TROYE'S   (Jean    de).  — .S"^^  Philip  de 

Cotntnines. 
ULRICI  [Tir.)—See  Shakespeare. 
VAS ARI.  Lives  of  the  most  Eminent 
Painters,   Sculptors,   and  Architects.     By 
Mrs.  J.  Foster,  with  selected  Notes.     Por- 
trait.   6  vols.,  Vol.  VI.  being  an  additional 
Volume  of  Notes  by  J.  P.  Richter.     N.  S. 
WERNER'S    Templars    in    Cyprus. 

Trans,  by  E.  A.  M.  Lewis.     N.  S. 
W^ESLEY,  the  Life  of,  and  the  Rise 
and  Progress   of  Methodism.     By  Robert 
Southey.     Portrait.     55.     N.  S. 
WHEATLEY.    A  Rational  Illustra- 
tion of  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer,  being 
the  Substance  of  everything  Liturgical  in 
all  former  Ritualist  Commentators  upon  the 
subject.     Frontispiece.    N.  S. 
YOUNG  (Arthur)  Ti-avels  in  France. 
Edited  by  Miss  Betham  Edwards.     With 
a  Portrait.     X.  S. 


HISTORICAL  AND  PHILOSOPHICAL  LIBRARIES. 


HISTORICAL    LIBRARY. 

22  Volumes  at  ^s.each.     (5Z.  los.  per  set.) 


EVELYN'S  Diary  and  Correspond- 

dence,  uiih  the  Private  Correspondence  of 
Charles  I  and  Sir  Edward  Nicholas,  and 
between  Sir  Edward  Hyde  (Earl  of  Claren- 
don) and  Sir  Richard  Browne.  Edited  from 
the  Original  MSS.  by  W.  Bray,  F.A.S. 
4  vols.  X.  S.  45  Engravings  (after  Van- 
dyke, Lely,  Kneller,  and  Jamieson,  &c.). 

N.B. — This  edition  contains  130  letters 
from  Evelyn  and  his  wife,  contained  in  no 
other  edition. 

PEPYS'  Diary  and  Correspondence. 

With  Life  and  Notes,  by  Lord  Braybrooke. 
4  vols.  N.  S.  With  Appendix  containing 
additional  Letters,  an  Index,  and  31  En- 
gravings (after  Vandyke,  Sir  P.  Lely, 
Hoibein    Kneller,  &c.). 


JESSE'S    Memoirs    of  the  Court  of 

England  under  the  Stuarts,  including  the 
Protectorate.  3  vols.  With  Index  and  42 
Portraits  (after  Vandyke,  Lely,  &c.). 

Memoirs  of  the  Pretenders  and 

their  Adherents.    7  Portraits. 

NU GENT'S  (Lord)  Memorials  of 
Hampden,  his  Party  and  Times.  With 
Memoir.  12  Portraits  (after  Vandyke 
and  others).     TV.  S. 

STRICKLAND'S  (Agnes)  Lives  of  the 
Queens  of  England  from  the  Norman 
Conipest.  From  authentic  Documents, 
public  and  private.  6  Portraits.  6  vols. 
N.S. 

Life   of  Mary  Queen    of   Scots. 

2  Portraits.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

Lives  of  the  Tudor  and  Stuart 

Princesses.     With  2  Portraits.      A'.  S. 


PHILOSOPHICAL    LIBRARY. 

17  Vols,  at  51.  each,  excepting  those  marked  otherwise.     (3/.  igs.per  set.) 


BACON'S  Novum  Organum  and  Ad- 
vancement of  Learning.  With  Notes  by 
J.  Devey,  M.A. 

BAX.     A  Handbook  of  the  History 

of  Philosophy,  for   the   use   of  Students. 
By   E.    Belfort    Bax,    Editor    of    Kant's 
'  Prolegomena.'     55.     N.  S. 
COMTE'S  Philosophy  of  the  Sciences. 

An  Exposition  of  the  Principles  of  the 
Conrs  de  Philosophie  Positive.  By  G.  H. 
Lewes,  Author  of  '  The  Life  of  Goethe.' 

DRAPER  (Dr.  J.  W.)    A  History  of 

the  Intellectual  Development  of  Europe. 
2  vols.     N.  S. 

HEGEL'S  Philosophy  of  History.    By 

J.  Sibree,  M.A. 

KANT'S    Critique    of  Pure  Reason. 

By  J.  M.  D.  Meiklejohn.     N.  S. 
Prolegomena  and  Metaphysical 

Foundations  of  Natural  Science,  with  Bio- 

fraphy  and    Memoir   by  E.   Belfort  Bax. 
'ortrait.     N.  S. 


LOGIC,  or  the  Science  of  Inference. 

A  Popular  Manual.     By  J.  Devey. 

MILLER  (Professor).  History  Philo- 
sophically Illustrated,  from  the  Fall  of  the 
Roman  Empire  to  the  French  Revolution. 
With  Memoir.     4  vols.     35.  td.  eaclj. 

SCHOPENHAUER  on  the  Fourfold 

Root  of  the  Principle  of  Sufficient  Reason, 
and  on  the  Will  in  Nature.  Trans,  from 
the  German. 

SPINOZA'S  Chief  Works.  Trans,  with 
Introduction  by  R.  H.  M.  Elwes.  2  vols. 
N.S. 

Vol.   I. — Tractatus  Theologico-Politicus 
— Political  Treatise. 

Vol.   II. —  Improvement  of  the  Under- 
standing— Ethics — Letters. 

TENNEMANN'S  Manual  of  the  His- 
tory of  Philosophy.  Trans,  by  Rev.  A. 
Johnson,  M.A. 


lO 


BONN'S  LIBRARIES. 


THEOLOGICAL    LIBRARY. 

[5  Vols,  at  55.  each,  excepting  those  marked  otherwise.     (3/.  13J.  dd.  per  set.) 


BLEEK.     Introduction   to    the   Old 

Testament.  By  Friedrich  Bleak.  Trans, 
under  the  supervision  of  Rev.  E.  Venables, 
Residentiary  Canon  of  Lincoln.  2  vols. 
N.S. 

CHILLINGWORTH'S     Religion    of 

Protestants.     3^.  6d, 

EUSEBIirs.     Ecclesiastical   History 

of  Eusebius  Pamphilius,  Bishop  of  Caesarea. 
Trans,  by  Rev.  C.  F.  Cruse,  M.A.  With 
Notes,  Life,  and  Chronological  Tables. 

EVAGRIUS.    History  of  the  Church. 

— See  Tlieodoret. 

HARD  WICK.  History  of  the  Articles 

of  Religion  ;  to  which  is  added  a  Series  of 
Documents  from  a.d.  1536  to  a.d.  1615. 
Ed.  by  Rev.  F.  Proctor.     N,  S. 

HENRY'S  (Matthew)  Exposition  of 

the  Book  of  Psalms.    Numerous  Woodcuts. 

PEARSON  (John,  D.D.)    Exposition 

of  the  Creed.  Edit,  by  E.  Walford,  M.A. 
With  Notes,  Analysis,  and  Indexes.    N.  S. 


PHILO-JUDJEUS,    Works    of.      The 

Contemporary'  of  Josephus.  Trans,  by 
C.  D.  Yonge.     4  vols. 

PHILOSTORGIUS.    Ecclesiastical 

History  of. — See  Sozomen, 

SOCRATES'   Ecclesiastical  History. 

Comprising  a  History  of  the  Church  from 
Constantine,  a.d.  305,  to  the  38th  year  of 
Theodoslus  II.  With  Short  Account  of 
the  Author,  and  selected  Notes. 

SOZOMEN'S  Ecclesiastical  History. 

A.D.  324-440.  With  Notes,  Prefatory  Re- 
marks by  Valesius,  and  Short  Memoir. 
Together  with  the  Ecclesiastical  His 
TORY  OF  Philostorgius,  as  epitomised  by 
Photius.  Trans,  by  Rev.  E.  Walford,  M.A. 
With  Notes  and  brief  Life. 

THEODORET  and  EVAGRIUS.  His- 
tories of  the  Church  from  a.d.  332  to  the 
Death  of  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia,  a.d. 
427  ;  and  from  a.d.  431  to  a.d.  544.  With 
Memoirs. 

W^IESELER'S   (Karl)   Chronological 

Synopsis  of  the  Four  Gospels.  Trans,  by 
Rev.  Canon  Venables.     N.  S. 


ANTIQUARIAN    LIBRARY. 

35  Vols,  at  5^.  each.     (8/.  \^s.  per  set.) 


ANGLO-SAXON   CHRONICLE.  —  See 

Bede. 
ASSER'S  Life  of  Alfred See  Six  O.  E. 

Chronicles. 

BEDE'S    ("Venerable)    Ecclesiastical 

Historj'  of  England.  Together  with  the 
Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle.  With  Notes, 
Short  Life,  Analysis,  and  Map.  Edit,  bv 
J.  A.  Giles,  D.C.L. 

BOETHIUS'S  Consolation  of  Philo- 
sophy. King  Alfred's  Anglo-Saxon  Ver- 
sion of.  With  an  English  Translation  on 
opposite  pages,  Notes,  Introduction,  and 
Glossary,  by  Rev.  S.  Yov.,  M.A.  To 
which  is  added  the  Anglo-Saxon  Version  of 
the  Metres  of  Boethius,  with  a  free 
Translation  by  Martin  F.  Tupper,  D.C.L. 

BRAND'S     Popular    Antiquities    of 

England,  Scotland,  and  Ireland.  Illus- 
trating the  Origin  of  our  Vulgar  and  Pro- 
vincial Customs,  Ceremonies,  and  Super- 
stitions. By  Sir  Henry  Ellis,  K.H.,  F.R.S. 
Frontispiece.    3  vols. 


CHRONICLES    of  the    CRUSADES. 

Contemporary  Narratives  of  Richard  Coeur 
de  Lion,  by  Richard  of  Devizes  and  Geof- 
frey de  Vinsauf ;  and  of  the  Crusade  at 
Saint  Louis,  by  Lord  John  de  Joinville. 
With  Short  Notes.  Illuminated  Frontis- 
piece from  an  old  MS. 

DYER'S  (T.  F.  T.)    British  Popular 

Customs,  Present  and  Past.  An  Account 
of  the  various  Games  and  Customs  asso- 
ciated w^ith  different  Days  of  the  Year  in 
the  British  Isles,  arranged  according  to  the 
Calendar.  By  the  Rev.  T.  F.  Thiselton 
Dyer,  M.A. 

EARLY  TRAVELS  IN  PALESTINE. 

Comprising  the  Narratives  of  Arculf, 
Willibald,  Bernard,  Saewulf,  Sigurd,  Ben- 
jamin of  Tudela,  Sir  John  Maundeville, 
De  la  Brocquiere,  and  Maundrell ;  all  un- 
abridged. With  Introduction  and  Notes 
by  Thomas  Wright.     Map  of  Jerusalem. 


ANTIQUARIAN  LIBRARY, 


ELUS  (G.)  Specimens  of  Early  En- 
glish ^letrical  Romances,  relating  to 
Arthur,  Merlin,  Guy  of  Warwick,  Richard 
C'cur  de  Lion,  Charlemagne,  Roland,  &c. 
&c.  With  Historical  Introduction  by  J.O. 
Halllwell,  F.R.S.  Illuminated  Frontis- 
piece from  an  old  MS. 

ETHELWERD.     Chronicle    ot.  —  See 

Six  O.  E.  Chronicles. 

FLORENCE     OF    WORCESTER'S 

Chronicle,  with  the  Two  Continuations  : 
coinpri-^ing  Annals  of  English  History 
from  the  Departure  of  the  Romans  to  the 
Reign  of  Edward  I.  Trans.,  with  Notes, 
by  I'homas  Forester,  M.A. 

GEOFFREY     OF     MONMOUTH. 

Chron'c'.e  of. — ^^^r  Six  O.  E.  Chronicles. 

GESTA     ROMANORUM,    or    Enter- 

tai-ii::^  Moral  Stories  invented  by  the 
Monks.  Trans,  with  Notes  by  the  Rev. 
Charles  Swan.     Edit,  by  W.  Hooper,  M.A. 

GILD  AS.    Chronicle  of.— vS"^^  Six  O.  E. 

Chrcnicles. 

GIRALDUS  CAMBRENSIS'  Histori- 
cal Works.  Containing  Topography  of 
Ireland,  and  History  of  the  Conquest  of 
Ireland,  by  Th.  Forester,  MA.  Itinerary 
through  Wales,  and  Description  of  Wales, 
by  Sir  R.  Colt  Hoare. 

HENRY  OF  HUNTINGDON'S  His- 
tory of  the  English,  from  the  Roman  In- 
vasion to  the  Accession  of  Henry  II.  ; 
■with  the  Acts  of  King  Stephen,  and  the 
Letter  to  Walter.  By  T.  Forester,  M.A. 
Frontispiece  from  au  old  MS. 

ENGULPH'S  Chronicles  of  the  Abbey 

of  Croyland,  with  the  Continuation  by 
Peter  of  F>iois  and  others.  Trans,  with 
Notes  by  H.T.  Riley,  B.A. 

KEIGHTLEY'S  (Thomas)  Fairy  My- 

tliology,  illustrative  of  the  Romance  and 
Superstition  of  Various  Countries.  Frontis- 
piece by  Cruikshank.    N.  S. 

LEPSIUS'S    Letters   from    Egypt, 

Ethiopia,  and  the  Peninsula  of  Sinai ;  to 
which  are  added,  Extracts  from  his 
Chronology  of  the  Egyptians,  with  refer- 
ence to  the  Exodus  of  the  Israelites.  By 
L.  and  J.  B.  Homer.  Maps  and  Coloured 
View  of  Mount  Barkal. 

MALLET'S  Northern  Antiquities,  or 

an  Historical  Account  of  the  Manners, 
Customs,  Religions,  and  Literature  of  the 
Ancient  Scandmavians.  Trans,  by  Bishop 
Percy.  With  Translation  of  the  Prose 
Edda,  and  Notes  by  J.  A.  Blackwell. 
Also  an  Abstract  of  the  '  Eyrbyggia  Saga  ' 
by  Sir  Walter  Scott.  With  Glossary 
aad  Coloured  Frontispiece. 


MARCO  POLO'S  Travels;  with  Notes 
and    Introduction.      Edit,   by  T.    Wright. 

MATTHEW  PARIS'S  English  His- 
tory, from  1235  to  1273.  I'.y  Rev.  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.  With  Frontispiece.  3  vols. — 
See  also  Roger  0/  Wendoz'er. 

MATTHEW^    OF    W^ESTMINSTER'S 

Flowers  of  Historj',  especially  such  as  re- 
late to  the  affairs  of  Britain,  from  the  be- 
ginning of  the  World  to  A.D.  1307.  By 
C.  D.  Yonge.     2  vols. 

NENNIUS.      Chronicle    oi,—  See   Six 

O.  E.  Chronicles. 

ORDERICUS  VIT  ALIS'  Ecclesiastical 

History  of  England  and  Normandy.  With 
Notes,  Introduction  of  Guizot,  and  the 
Critical  Notice  of  M.  Delille,  by  T. 
Forester,  M.A.  To  which  is  added  the 
Chronicle  of  St.  Evroult.  With  Gene- 
ral and  Chronological  Indexes.     4  vols. 

FAULT'S  (Dr.  R.)  Life  of  Alfred  the 

Great.  To  which  is  appended  Alfred's 
Anglo-Saxon  Version  of  Okosius.  With 
literal  Translation  interpaged,  Notes,  and 
an  Anglo-Saxon  Grammar  and  Glossary, 
by  B.  Thorpe,  Esq.     FroHtispiece, 

RICHARD    OF    CIRENCESTER. 

Chronicle  of.— See  Six  O.  E.  Chronicles. 

ROGER  DE  HOVEDEN'S  Annals  of 

English  History,  comprising  the  History 
of  England  and  of  other  Countries  of  Eu- 
rope from  A.D.  732  to  A.D.  I20I.  With 
Notes  by  H.  T.  Riley,  B.A.     2  vols. 

ROGER  OF  WENDOVER'S  Flowers 

of  History,  comprising  the  History  of 
England  from  the  Descent  of  the  Saxons  to 
A.D.  123s,  formerly  ascribed  to  Matthew 
Paris.  With  Notes  and  Index  by  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.     2  vols. 

SIX  OLD   ENGLISH  CHRONICLES  : 

viz.,  Asser's  Life  of -A.lfred  and  the  Chroni 
cles  of  Ethelwerd,  Gildas,  Nennius,  Geof- 
frey of  Monmouth,  and  Richard  of  Ciren- 
cester. Edit.,  with  Notes,  by  J.  A.  Giles, 
D.C.L.     Portrait  of  Alfred. 

WILLIAM     OF     MALMESBURYS 

Chronicle  of  the  Kings  of  England,  from 
the  Earliest  Period  to  King  Stephen.  By 
Rev.  J.  Sharpe.  With  Notes  by  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.     Frontispiece. 

YULE-TIDE  STORIES.  A  Collection 
of  Scandinavian  and  North-German  Popu- 
lai  Tale.i  and  Traditions,  from  the  Swedish, 
Danish,  and  German.    Edit,  by  B.  Thorpe. 


BOHN'S  LIBRARIES. 


ILLUSTRATED    LIBRARY. 


87  Vols,  at  55.  each,  excepting  those  mar 

ALLEN'S  (Joseph,  R.N.)  Battles  of 
the  British  Nav3'.  Revised  edition,  with 
Indexes  of  Names  and  Events,  and  57  Por- 
traits and  Plans.     2  vols. 

ANDERSEN'S    Danish   Fairy  Tales. 

By  Caroline  Peachey.  With  Short  Life 
and  120  Wood  Engravings. 

ARIOSTO'S     Orlando     Furioso.     In 

English  Verse  by  W.  S.  Rose.  With  Notes 
and  Short  Memoir.  Portrait  after  Titian, 
and  24  Steel  Engravings.     2  vols. 

EECHSTEIN'S   Cage    and    Chamber 

Birds  :  their  Natural  History,  Habits,  &c. 
Together  with  Sweet's  British  War- 
blers.    43  Plates  and  Woodcuts.     N.  S. 

or  with  the  Plates  Coloured,  75-.  6d. 

BONOMI'S  Nineveh  and  its  Palaces. 

The  Discoveries  of  Botta  and  Layard 
applied  to  the  Elucidation  of  Holy  Writ. 
7  Plates  and  294  Woodcuts.     iV.  6". 

BUTLER'S  Hudibras,  with  Variorum 
Notes  and  Biography.  Portrait  and  28 
Illustrations. 

CATTERMOLE'S  Evenings  at  Had- 

don  Hall.  Romantic  Tales  of  the  Olden 
Times.  With  24  Steel  Engravings  after 
Cattermole. 

CHINA,   Pictorial,  Descriptive,  and 

Historical,  with  some  account  of  Ava  and 
the  Burmese,  Siam,  and  Anam,  Map,  and 
nearly  100  Illustrations. 

CRAIK'S   (G.  L.)  Pursuit    of  Know- 

ledge  under  Difficulties.  Illustrated  by 
Anecdotes  and  Memoirs.  Numerous  Wood- 
cut Portraits.     N.  S. 

CRLHKSHANK'S  Three  Courses  and 

a  Dessert ;  comprising  three  Sets  of  Tales, 
West  Country,  Irish,  and  Legal ;  and  a 
Melange.  With  50  Illustrations  by  Cruik- 
shaiik.     N.  S. 

Punch  and  Judy.     The  Dialogue  of 

the  Puppet  Show  ;  an  Accountof  its  Origin, 
&c.  24  Illustrations  by  Cruikshank.    N,  S, 

With  Coloured  Plates,     -js.  6d. 

DIDRON'S   Christian   Iconography; 

a  History  of  Christian  Art  in  the  Middle 
Ages.  By  the  late  A.  N.  Didron.  Trans, 
by  E.  J.  Millington,  and  completed,  with 
Additions  and  Appendices,  by  Margaret 
Stokes.  2  vols.  With  numerous  Illustrations. 

Vol.  I.  The  History  of  the  Nimbus,  the 
Aureole,  and  the  Glory ;  Representations 
of  the  Persons  of  the  Trinity. 

Vol.  II.  The  Trinity;  Angels;  Devils; 
The  Soul  ;  The  Christian  Scheme.  Appen- 
dices. 


■ked othej-wise.      (23/.  3^".  dd.  per  set.) 

DANTE,  in  English  Verse,  by  I.  C.  Wright, 
M.A.  With  Introduction  and  iNIemoir. 
Portrait  and  34  Steel  Engravings  after 
Flaxman.     ^.V.  S. 

DYER  (Dr.  T.  H.)  Pompeii :  its  Build- 
ings and  Antiquities.  An  Account  of  the 
City,  with  full  Description  of  the  Remains 
and  Recent  Excavations,  and  an  Itinerary 
for  Visitors.  By  T.  H.  Dyer,  LL.D. 
Nearly  300  Wood  Engravings,  Map,  and 
Plan.     7^.  6rf.     .V.  6". 

Rome :    History    of   the    City,    with 

Introduction  on  recent  Excavations.  8 
Engravings,  Frontispiece,  and  2  Maps. 

GIL    BLAS.     The    Adventures    of. 

From  the  French  of  Lesage  by  Smollett. 
24  Engravings  after  Smirke,  and  10  Etch- 
ings by  Cruikshank.     612  pages,     ts. 

GRIMM'S  Gammer  Grethel;  or,  Ger- 
man Fairy  Tales  and  Popular  Stories, 
containing  42  Fairy  Tales.  By  Edgar 
Taylor.  Numerous  Woodcuts  after  Cruik- 
shank and  Ludwig  Grimm.     3J.  td. 

HOLBEIN'S    Dance    of    Death    and 

Bible  Cuts.  Upwards  of  150  Subjects,  en- 
graved in  facsimile,  with  Introduction  and 
Descriptions  by  the  late  Francis  Douce 
and  Dr.  Dibdin.     -js.  6d. 

HOWITT'S  (Mary)  Pictorial  Calen- 
dar of  the  Seasons  ;  embodying  Aikin's 
Calendar  of  Nature.  Upwards  of  100 
Woodcuts. 

INDIA,  Pictorial,  Descriptive,  and 

Historical,  from  the  Earliest  Times.  100 
Engravings  on  Wood  and  Map. 

JESSE'S  Anecdotes  of  Dogs.  With 
40  Woodcuts  after  Harvey,  Bewick,  and 
others.     N.  S. 

With   34  additional   Steel    Engravings 

after  Cooper,  Landseer,  &c.    -js.  6d.    N.  S. 

KING'S  (C.  W.)    Natural  History  of 

Gems    or    Decorative    Stones.       Illustra- 
tions,    6s. 
Natural    History    of    Precious 

Stones  and  Metals.     Illustrations.     6s. 

KITTO'S  Scripture  Lands.  Described 
in  a  series  of  Historical,  Geographical,  and 
Topographical  Sketches.     42  Maps. 

With  the  Maps  coloured,  -js.  6d. 

KRUMMACHER'S  Parables.  40  Illus- 
trations. 

LINDSAY'S  (Lord)  Letters  on  Egirpt, 

Edom,  and  the  Holy  Land.  36  Wood 
Engravings  and  2  Maps. 


ILLUSTRATED  LIBRARY. 


n 


LODGE'S     Portraits     of    IlltistriouB 

Personages   of  Great    Britain,    with    Bio- 

fraphical  and  Historical  Memoirs.  240 
'ortraits  engraved  on  Steel,  with  the 
respective  Biographies  unabridged.  Com- 
plete in  8  vols. 

LONGFELLOW'S    Poetical    Works, 

including  his  Translations  and  Notes.  24 
full-page  Woodcuts  by  Birket  Foster  and 
others,  and  a  Portrait.     N.  S. 

Without  the  Illustrations,  ^s.bd.    N.S. 

Prose   Works.      With   16    full-page 

Woodcuts  by  Birket  Foster  and  others. 

LOUDON'S  (Mrs.)  Entertaining  Na- 
turalist. Popular  Descriptions,  Tales,  and 
.\necdotes,  of  more  than  500  Animals. 
Numerous  Woodcuts.     N.  S. 

MARRYAT'S  (Capt.,  R.N.)  Master- 
man  Ready  ;  or,  the  Wreck  of  the  Pacific. 
(Written  for  Young  People.)  With  93 
Woodcuts,     y.  6d.    N.  S. 

Mission;    or,  Scenes  in  Africa. 

(Written  for  Young  People.)  Illustrated 
by  Gilbert  and  Dalziel.     3^.  6d.     N.  S. 

Pirate  and  Three  Cutters.  (Writ- 
ten for  Young  People.)  With  a  Memoir. 
S  Steel  Engravings  after  Clarkson  Stan- 
field,  R.A.     3s.  6d.     N.  S. 

Privateersman.    Adventures  by  Sea 

and  Land  One  Hundred  Years  Ago. 
(Written  for  Young  People.)  8  Steel  En- 
gravings.    3^.  6d.     JY.  ^. 

Settlers  in  Canada.    (Written  for 

Young  People.)  10  Engravings  by  Gilbert 
and  Dalziel.     3.?.  6d.     N.  S. 

Poor     Jack.      (Written     for     Young 

People.)  With  16  Illustrations  after  Clark- 
son  Stanfield,  R.A.     3^.  6d.     N.  S. 

Midshipman    Easy.     With  8  full- 

page  Illustrations.  Small  post  8vo.  3.?.  6d. 
N.S. 

Peter  Simple.  With  8  full-page  Illus- 
trations.    Small  post  8vo.  3.?.  6.Y.     N.S. 

MAXWELL'S  Victories  of  W^elling- 

ton  and  the  British  Armies.  Frontispiece 
and  4  Portraits. 

MICHAEL  ANGELO  and  RAPHAEL, 

Their  Lives  and  Works.  By  Duppa  and 
Quatremere  de  Quincy.  Portraits  and 
Engravings,  including  the  Last  Judgment, 

and  Cartoons.     N.  S. 

MILLER'S  History  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxons,  from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the 
Norman  Conquest.  Portrait  of  Alfred,  Map 
of  Saxon  Britain,  and  12  Steel  Engravings. 

MILTON'S  Poetical  Works,  with  a 
Memoir  and  Notes  by  J.  Montgomery,  an 
Index  to  Paradise  Lost,  Todd's  Verbal 
Index  to  all  the  Poems,  and  Notes.  120 
Wood  Engravings.     2  vols.    N.  S. 


MUDIE'S  History  of  British  Birds. 
Revised  by  W.  C.  L.  Martin.  52  P'igures  of 
Birds  and  7  Plates  of  Eggs.     2  vols.     N.S. 

With  the  Plates  coloured,  js.  td.  per  vol. 

NAVAL    and    MILITARY    HEROES 

of  Great  Britain  ;  a  Record  of  British 
Valour  on  every  Day  in  the  year,  from 
William  the  Conqueror  to  the  Battle  of 
Inkermann.  By  Major  Johns,  R.M.,  and 
Lieut.  P.  H.  Nicolas,  R.M.  Indexes.  24 
Portraits  after  Holbem,  Reynolds,  &c.    6j. 

NICpLINI'S  History  of  the  Jesuits  : 

their  Origin,  Progress,  Doctrines,  and  De- 
signs.    8  Portraits. 

PETRARCH'S    Sonnets,     Triumphs, 

and  other  Poems,  in  English  Verse.  With 
Life  by  Thomas  Campbell.  Portrait  and 
15  Steel  Engravings. 

PICKERING'S  History  of  the  Races 

of  Man,  and  their  Geographical  Distribu- 
tion ;  with  An  Analytical  Synopsis  of 
THE  Natural  History  of  Man.  By  Dr. 
Hall.     Map  of  the  World  and  12  Plates. 

With  the  Plates  coloured,  ^s.  6d. 

PICTORIAL      HANDBOOK     OF 

Modern  (Geography  on  a  Popular  Plan. 
Compiled  from  the  best  Authorities,  English 
and  Foreign,  by  H.  G.  Bohn.  150  Wood- 
cuts and  51  Maps.     6s. 

With  the  Maps  coloured,  7^.  6d. 

Without  the  Maps,  35.  6d. 

POPE'S  Poetical  Works,  including 
Translations.  Edit.,  with  Notes,  by  R. 
Carruthers.     2  vols. 

Homer's    Iliad,    with    Introduction 

and  Notes  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 
With  Flaxman's  Designs.     N.  S. 

Homer's  Odyssey,  with  the  Battle 

of  Fkogs  and  Mice,  Hymns,  &c.,  by 
other  translators,  including  Chapman.  In- 
troduction and  Notes  by  J.  S.  Watson, 
M.A.     With  Flaxman's  Designs.     N.  S. 

Life,    including   many  of  his   Letters. 

By  R.  Carruthers.   Numerous  Illustrations. 

POTTERY    AND     PORCELAIN,    and 

other  objects  of  Vertu.  Comprising  an 
Illustrated  Catalogue  of  the  Bernal  Col- 
lection, with  the  prices  and  names  of  the 
Possessors.  Also  an  Introductory  Lecture 
on  Potterj'  and  Porcelain,  and  an  Engraved 
List  of"  ail  Marks  and  Monograms.  By 
H.  G.  Bohn.     Numerous  Woodcuts. 

With  coloured  Illustrations,  loj.  6d. 

PROUT'S  (Father)  Reliques.  Edited 
by  Rev.  F.  Mahony.  Copyright  edition, 
with  the  Author's  last  corrections  and 
additions.  21  Etchings  by  D.  Maclise, 
R.A.     Nearly  600  pages.     55.     N.  S. 


14 


BOHJSrS  LIBRARIES. 


RECREATIONS  IN  SHOOTING.  With 
some  Account  of  the  Game  found  in  the 
British  Isles,  and  Directionsfor  the  Manage- 
ment of  Dog  and  Gun.  By  'Craven.'  62 
Woodcuts  and  9  Steel  Engravings  after 
A.  Cooper,  R.A. 

RENNIE.  Insect  Architecture.  Re- 
vised by  Rev.  J.  G.  Wood,  M.A.  186 
Woodcuts.     N.  S. 

ROBINSON  CRUSOE.  With  Memoir  of 
Defoe,  12  Steel  Engravings  and  74  Wood- 
cuts after  Stothard  and  Harvey. 

Without  the  Engravings,  -^s.  6d.  I 

ROME  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CEN-  | 

tury.     An  Account  in  iSij  of  the  Ruins  cf  j 

the  Ancient  City,  and  Monuments  of  Modem  | 

Times.     By  C.   A.    Eaton.     34  Steel  En-  ] 

gravings.     2  vols.  | 

SHARPE  (S.)    The  History  of  Egypt,    j 

from  the  Earliest  Times  till  the  Conquest    \ 
by  the  Arabs,  a.d.  640.     2  Maps  and  up- 
wards of  400  Woodcuts.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

SOUTHEY'S    Life    of  Nelson.    With 

Additional  Notes,  Facsimiles  of  Nelson's 
Writing,  Portraits,  Plans,  and  50  Engrav- 
ings, after  Birket  Foster,  &c.     A'.  6". 

STARLING'S  (Miss)  Noble  Deeds  of 

Women  ;  or,  Examplesof  Female  Courage, 
Fortitude,  and  Virtue.  With  14  Steel  Por- 
traits.    N.  S. 

STUART  and  REVETT'S  Antiquities 

of  Athens,  and  other  Monuments  of  Greece  ; 
with  Glossary  of  Terms  used  in  Grecian 
Architecture.  71  Steel  Plates  and  numerous 
Woodcuts. 

SWEET'S  British  Warblers.  5^.— 6"^^ 

Bechstein. 

TALES    OF    THE    GENII;    or,    the 

Delightful  Lessons  of  Horam,  the  Son  of 
Asmar.  Trans,  by  Sir  C.  Morrell.  Numer- 
ous Woodcuts. 


TASSO'S    Jerusalem    Delivered.    In 

English  Spenserian  Verse,  with  Life,  by 
J.  H.  Wiffen.  With  8  Engravings  and  24 
Woodcuts.     N.  S. 

WALKER'S  Manly  Exercises;  con- 
taining Skating,  Riding,  Driving,  Hunting, 
Shooting,  Sailing,  Rowing,  Swimming,  &c. 
44  Engravings  and  numerous  Woodcuts. 

W^ ALTON'S  Complete  Angler,  or  the 
Contemplative  Man's  Recreation,  by  Izaak 
Walton  and  Charles  Cotton.  With  Me- 
moirs and  Notes  by  E.  Jesse.  Also  an 
Account  of  Fishing  Stations,  Tackle,  &c., 
by  H.  G.  Bohn.  Portrait  and  203  Wood- 
cuts.    N.  S. 

With  26  additional  Engravings  on  Steel, 

7^.  ed. 

Lives  Of  Donne,  Wotton,  Hooker, 

&c.,  with  Notes.  A  New  Edition,  re- 
vised by  A.  H.  Bullen,  with  a  Memoir 
of  Izaak  Walton  by  William  Dowling.  6 
Portraits,   6   Autograph    Signatures,    &c. 

W^ELLINGTON,  Life  of.  From  the 
Materials  of  Maxwell.  18  Steel  En- 
gravings. 

Victories  of.— See  Maxnmll. 

W^ESTROPP  (H.  M.)   A  Handbook  of 

Archaeology,  Eg^'ptian,  Greek,  Etruscan, 
Roman.  By  H.  M.  Westropp.  Numerous 
Illustrations.     75.  6^.     N.  S. 

W^HITE'S   Natural   History  of  Sel- 

borne,  with  Observations  on  various  Parts 
of  Nature,  and  the  Naturalists'  Calendar. 
Sir  W.  Jardine.  Edit.,  with  Notes  and 
Memoir,  by  E.  Jesse.    40  Portraits.    N.  S. 

With  the  Plates  coloured,  -js.  6d.  N.  S. 

YOUNG     LADY'S     BOOK,    The.     A 

Manual  of  Recreations,  Arts,  Sciences,  and 
Accomplishments.  1200  Woodcut  Illustra- 
tions.    7^.  6d. 

cloth  gilt,  gilt  edges,  gs. 


CLASSICAL    LIBRARY. 

Translations  from  the  Greek  and  Latin. 
102  Vo/s.  at  ^s.  each,  excepting  those  7narked  otherwise.     (25/.  os.  6d.  per  set.] 


.SESCHYLUS,    The    Dramas    of.     In 

English  Verse  by  Anna   Swanwick.      4th 
edition.     N.  S. 

The  Tragedies  of.    In  Prose,  with 

Notes  and  Introduction,  by  T.  A.  Buckley, 
B.A.     Portrait,     -^s.  6d. 

AMMIANUS  MARCELLINUS.  His- 
tory of  Rome  during  the  Reigns  of  Con- 
stantius,  Julian,  Jovianus.Valentinian,  and 
Valens,  by  C.  D.  Yonge,  B.A,  Double 
volume.     7^.  6d. 


ANTONINUS     (M.     Aurelius),     The 

Thoughts  of.  Translated  literally,  with 
Notes,  Biographical  Sketch,  and  Essay  on 
the  Philosophy,  by  George  Long,  M.A. 
^s.td.    N.S. 

APULEIUS,  The  W^orkS  of.  Com- 
prising the  Golden  Ass,  God  of  Socrates, 
Florida,  and  Discourse  of  Magic.  With 
a  Metrical  Version  of  Cupid  and  Psyche, 
and  Mrs.  Tighe's  Psyche.  Frontis- 
piece. 


CLASSICAL  LIBRARY. 


'5 


ARISTOPHANES'  Comedies.    Trans., 

with  Notes  and  Extracts  from  Frere's  and 
other  Metrical  Versions,  by  W.  J.  Hickie. 
Portrait.     2  vols. 

ARISTOTLE'S  Nicomachean  Ethics. 

Trans.,  with  Notes,  Analytical  Introduc- 
tion, and  Questions  for  Students,  by  Ven. 
.\rchdp.  Firowne. 

Politics  and  Economics.    Trans., 

with  Notes,  Analyses,  and  Index,  by  E. 
Walford,  M.A.,  and  an  Essay  and  Life  by 
Dr.  Gillies. 

-  Metaphysics.  Trans.,  with  Notes, 
-Analysis,  and  Examination  Questions,  by 
Rev.  John  H.  M'Mahon,  M.A. 

-  History  of  Animals.  In  Ten  Books. 
Trans.,  with  Notes  and  Index,  by  R. 
Cresswell,  M.A. 

Organon ;  or.  Logical  Treatises,  and 

the  Introduction  of  Porphyry.  With  Notes, 
Analysis,  and  Introduction,  by  Rev.  O. 
F.  Owen,  M.A.     2  vols.     35.  6d.  each. 

Rhetoric  and  Poetics.    Trans.,  with 

Hobbes'  Analysis,  Exam.  Questions,  and 
Notes,  by  T.  Buckley,  B.A.     Portrait. 

ATHENiEUS.    The   Deipnosophists ; 

or,  the  Banquet  of  the  Learned.  By  C.  D. 
Yonge,  B.A.  With  an  Appendix  of  Poeti- 
cal Fragments.     3  vols. 

ATLAS   of  Classical  Geography.    22 

large  Coloured  Maps.  With  a  complete 
Index.     Imp.  8vo.     75.  6d. 

BIO'S.— See  Theocritus. 

CiESAR.      Commentaries     on    the 

(iallic  and  Civil  Wars,  with  the  Supple- 
mentary Books  attributed  to  Hirtius,  in- 
cluding the  complete  Alexandrian,  African, 
and  Spanish  Wars.  Trans,  with  Notes. 
Portrait. 

CATULLUS,  Tibullus,  and  the  Vigil 

(f  Venus.  Trans,  with  Notes  and  Bio- 
;jraphical  Introduction.  To  which  are 
added.  Metrical  Versions  by  Lamb, 
Grainger,  and  others.     Frontispiece. 

CICERO'S  Orations.     Trans,  by  C.  D. 

\'L»nge,  H..-\.     4  vols. 

On  Oratory  and  Orators.    With 

Letters  to  Quintus  and  Brutus.  Trans., 
with  Notes,  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 

On  the  Nature  of  the  Gods,  Divi- 

ration.  Fate,  Laws,  a  Republic,  Consul- 
ship. Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  C.  D.  Yonge, 
C.A. 

Academics,  De  Finibus,  and  Tuscu- 

Ian  Questions.  By  C.  D.  Yonge,  B.A. 
With  Sketch  of  the  Greek  Philosophers 
mentioned  by  Cicero. 


CICERO'S  OraXion^.— Continued. 

Offices :     or,     Moral     Duties.      Gate 

Major,  an  Essay  on  Old  Age  ;  Laelius,  an 
Essay  on  Friendship ;  Scipio's  Dream ; 
Paradoxes ;  Letter  to  Quintus  on  Magis- 
trates. Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  C.  R.  Ed- 
monds.    Portrait.     ■>,$.  6d. 

DEMOSTHENES'  Orations.  Trans., 
with  Notes,  Arguments,  a  Chronological 
Abstract,  and  Appendices,  by  C.  Rann 
Kennedy.     5  vols. 

DICTIONARY  of  LATIN  and  GREEK 

Quotations  ;  including  Proverbs,  Maxims, 
Mottoes,  Law  Terms  and  Phrases.  With 
the  Quantities  marked,  and  English  Trans- 
lations. 

With  Index  Verborum  (622  pages),     ts. 

Index  Verborum  to  the  above,  with  the 

Quantities  and  Accents  marked  (56  pages), 
limp  cloth.     \s. 

DIOGENES    LAERTTUS.    Lives   and 

Opinions  of  the  Ancient  Philosophers. 
Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  C.  D.  Yonge,  B.A. 

EPICTETUS.      The    Discourses     of. 

With  the  Encheiridion  and  Fragments. 
With  Notes,  Life,  and  View  of  his  Philo- 
sophy, by  George  Long,  M.A.     N.  S. 

EURIPIDES.  Trans.,  with  Notes  and  In- 
troduction, by  T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.  Por- 
trait.    2  vols. 

GREEK  ANTHOLOGY.  In  English 
Prose  by  G.  Burges,  M.A.  With  Metrical 
Versions  by  Bland,  Merivale,  Lord  Den- 
man,  &c. 

GREEK  ROMANCES  of  Heliodorus, 

Longus,  and  Achilles  Tatius ;  viz..  The 
Adventures  of  Theagenes  and  Chariclea ; 
Amours  of  Daphnis  and  Chloe  ;  and  Loves 
of  Clitopho  and  Leucippe.  Trans.,  with 
Notes,  by  Rev   R.  Smith,  M.A. 

HERODOTUS.  Literally  trans,  by  Rev. 
Henrj'  Cary,  M.A.     Portrait. 

HESIOp,    CALLIMACHUS,    and 

Theognis.  In  Prose,  with  Notes  and 
Biographical  Notices  by  Rev.  J.  Banks, 
M.A.  Together  with  the  Metrical  Ver- 
sions of  Hesiod,  by  Elton  ;  Callimachus, 
by  Tytler ;  and  Theognis,  by  Frere. 

HOMER'S  Iliad.  In  English  Prose,  with 
Notes  by  T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.     Portrait. 

Odyssey,     Hymns,      Epigrams,     and 

Battle  of  the  Frogs  and  Mice.  In  English 
Prose,  with  Notes  and  Memoir  by  T.  A. 
Buckley,  B.A. 

HORACE.  In  Prose  by  Smart,  with  Notes 
selected  by  T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.  Por- 
trait,     nj.  td. 

JULIAN  THE  EMPEROR.  By  the 
Rev.  C.  W.  King,  M.A. 


i6 


BONN'S  LIBRARIES. 


JUSTIN,   CORNELIUS  NEPOS,  and 

Eutropius.  Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  Rev. 
J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 

JUVENAL,      PERSIUS,     SULPICIA, 

and  Lucilius.  In  Prose,  with  Notes, 
Chronological  Tables,  Arguments,  by  L. 
Evans,  M.A.  To  which  is  added  the  Me- 
trical Version  of  Juvenal  and  Persius  by 
Gifford.     Frontispiece. 

LIVY.  The  History  of  Rome.  Trans, 
by  Dr.  Spillan  and  others.  4  vols.  Por- 
trait. 

LUCAN'S  Pharsalia.  In  Prose,  with 
Notes  by  H.  T.  Riley. 

LUCIAN'S  Dialogues  of  the  Gods, 

of  the  Sea  Gods,  and  of  the  Dead.     Trans. 

by  Howard  Williams,  M.A. 
LUCRETIUS.     In  Prose,  with  Notes  and 

Biographical    Introduction  by  Rev.  J.   S. 

Watson,    M.A.     To    which   is   added   the 

Metrical  Version  by  J.  M.  Good. 
MARTIAL'S    Epigrams,  complete.     In 

Prose,   with   Verse    Translations   selected 

from   English    Poets,   and   other  sources. 

Dble.  vol.  (670  pages),     js.  6d. 

MOSCHUS.— 5^^  Theocritus. 

OVID'S  Works,  complete.  In  Prose, 
with  Notes  and  Introduction.     3  vols. 

P AUSANIAS'  Description  of  Greece. 

Translated  into  English,  with  Notes  and 
Index.  By  Arthur  Richard  Shilleto,  M.  A., 
sometime  Scholar  of  Trinity  College,  Cam- 
bridge. 2  vols. 
PHALARIS.  Bentley's  Dissertations 
upon  the  Epistles  of  Phalaris,  Themisto- 
cles,  Socrates,  Euripides,  and  the  Fables 
of  JEsop.  With  Introduction  and  Notes 
by  Prof.  W.  Wagner,  Ph.D. 

PINDAR.  In  Prose,  with  Introduction 
and  Notes  by  Dawson  W.  Turner.  To- 
gether with  the  Metrical  Version  by  Abra- 
ham Moore.     Portrait. 

PLATO'S  Works.  Trans.,  with  Intro- 
duction and  Notes.     6  vols. 

Dialogues.    A  Summary  and  Analysis 

of.     With   Analytical  Index  to  the  Greek 

text  of  modern  editions  and  to  the  above 

translations,  by  A.  Day,  LL.D. 
PLAUTUS'S  Comedies.     In  Prose,  with 

Notes  and   Index  by  H.  T.   Riley,  B.A. 

2  vols. 
PLINY'S    Natural    History.    Trans., 

with  Notes,  by  J.  Bostock,  M.D.,  F.R.S., 

and  H.  T.  Riley,  B.A.     6  vols. 
PLINY.     The   Letters   of  Pliny  the 

Younger.     Melmoth's  Translation,  revised, 

with  Notes  and  short  Life,  by  Rev.  F.  C. 

T.  Eosanquet,  M.A. 


PLUTARCH'S    Morals.      Theosophical 
Essays.  Trans,  by  C.  W.  King,  M.A.  N.  S. 


—  Ethical  Essays. 

Shilleto,  M.A.     N.S. 

—  Lives.     See  page  7. 


Trans,    by  A.  R. 


PROFERTIUS,  The  Elegies  of.  With 
Notes,  Literally  translated  by  the  Rev.  P. 
J.  F.  Gantillon,  M.A.,  with  metrical  ver- 
sions of  Select  Elegies  by  Nott  and  Elton. 
3J.  6d. 

QUINTILIAN'S  Institutes  of  Oratory. 

Trans.,  with  Notes  and  Biographical 
Notice,  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 
2  vols. 

SALLUST,  FLORUS,  and  VELLEIUS 

Paterculus.     Trans.,  with  Notes  and  Bio- 
graphical Notices,  by  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 
SENECA    DE    BENEFICIIS.       Newly 
translated     by     Aubrey     Stewart,     M.A. 

s^.  6d.     N.  S. 

SENECA'S  Minor  Works.  Translated 
by  A.  Stewart,  M.A.     N.S. 

SOPHOCLES.    The  Tragedies  of.    In 

Prose,  with  Notes,  Arguments,  and  Intro- 
duction.    Portrait. 

STRABO'S  Geography.  Trans.,  with 
Notes,  by  W.  Falconer,  M.A.,  and  H.  C. 
Hamilton.  Copious  Index,  giving  Ancient 
and  Modern  Names.     3  vols. 

SUETONIUS'   Lives   of  the   Twelve 

Caesars  and  Lives  of  the  Grammarians. 
The  Translation  of  Thomson,  revised,  with 
Notes,  by  T.  Forester. 

TACITUS.  The  Works  of.  Trans., 
with  Notes.     2  vols. 

TERENCE  and  PHiEDRUS.  In  Eng- 
lish Prose,  with  Notes  and  Arguments,  by 
H.  T.  Riley,  B.A.  To  which  is  added 
Smart's  Metrical  Version  of  Phaedrus. 
With  Frontispiece. 

THEOCRITUS,     BION,     MOSCHUS, 

and  Tyrtaeus.  In  Prose,  with  Notes  and 
Arguments,  by  Rev.  J.  Banks,  M.A.  To 
which  are  appended  the  Metrical  Ver- 
sions of  Chapman.  Portrait  of  Theocritus. 
THUCYDIDES.  The  Feloponnesian 
War.  Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  Rev.  H. 
Dale.     Portrait.     2  vols.     35.  td.  each. 

TYRT^US.— ^^.?  Theocritus. 

VIRGIL.     The  Works  of.      In  Prose, 

with  Notes  by  Davidson.  Revised,  with 
additional  Notes  and  Biographical  Notice, 
by  T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.     Portrait.     35.  td. 

XENOPHON'S  Works.  Trans.,  with 
Notes,  by  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A.,  and  others. 
Portrait.     In  3  vols. 


COLLEGIATE  SERIES  AND  SCIENTIFIC  LIBRARY, 


17 


COLLEGIATE     SERIES. 

10  Vols,  at  5 J.  each.     (2/.  \os.  per  set.) 


DANTE.  The  Inferno.  Prose  Trans., 
Nvith  the  Text  of  the  Original  on  the  same 
page,  and  Explanatory  Notes,  by  John 
A.  Carlyle,  M.D.     Portrait.     N.  S. 

The  Piirgatorio.    Prose  Trans. ,  with 

the  Original  on  the  same  page,  and  Ex- 
planatory Notes,  by  W.  S.  Dugdale.    N.  S. 

NEW  TESTAMENT  (The)  in  Greek. 
Griesbach's  Text,  with  the  Readings  of 
Mill  and  Scholz  at  the  foot  of  the  page,  and 
Parallel  References  in  the  margin.  Also  a 
Critical  Introduction  and  Chronological 
Tables.  Two  Fac-similes  of  Greek  Manu- 
scripts.    650  pages.     3^.  6rf. 

or  bound  up  with  a  Greek  and  English 

Lexicon  to  the  New  Testament  (250  pages 
additional,  making  in  all  900^.     5^. 

The   Lexicon    may  be  had  separately, 
price  2J. 

DOBREE'S  Adversaria.  (Notes  on  the 
Greek  and  Latin  Classics.)  Edited  by  the 
late  Prof.  Wagner.     2  vols. 


DONALDSON  (Dr.)    The  Theatre  of 

the  Greeks.  With  Supplementary  Treatise 
on  the  Language,  Metres,  and  Prosody  of 
the  Greek  Dramatists.  Numerous  Illus- 
trations and  3  Plans.  By  J.  W.  Donald- 
son, D.D.     N,S. 

KEIGHTLEY'S  (Thomas)  Mythology 

of  Ancient  Greece  and  Italy.  Revised  by 
Leonhard  Schmitz,  Ph.D.,  LL.D.  12 
Plates.     N.S. 

HERODOTUS,    Notes    on.     Original 

and  Selected  from  the  best  Commentators. 
By  D.  W.  Turner,  M.A.     Coloured  Map. 

Analysis  and  Summary  of,  with 

a  Synchronistical  Table  of  Events — Tables 
of  Weights,  Measures,  Money,  and  Dis- 
tances—  an  Outline  of  the  History  and 
Geography — and  the  Dates  completed  from 
Gaisford,  Baehr,  &c.     By  J.  T.  Wheeler. 

THUCYDIDES.      An    Analysis    and 

Summary  of.  With  Chronological  Table 
of  Events,  &c.,  by  J.  T.  Wheeler. 


SCIENTIFIC    LIBRARY. 

57  Vo/s.  at  ^s.  each,  excepting  those  marked  otherwise.     (14/.  I'js.  per  set.) 


AGASSIZ    and    GOULD.    Outline  of 

Comparative  Physiology  touching  the 
Structure  and  Development  of  the  Races 
of  Animals  living  and  extinct.  For  Schools 
and  Colleges.  Enlarged  by  Dr.  Wright. 
With  Index  and  300  Illustrative  Woodcuts. 

OOLLEY'S    Manual    of   Technical 

.•\nal>-sis ;  a  Guide  for  the  Testing  and 
Valuation  of  the  various  Natural  and 
Artificial  Substances  employed  in  the  Arts 
and  Domestic  Economy,  founded  on  the 
work  of  Dr.  BoUey.  Edit,  by  Dr.  Paul. 
100  Woodcuts. 


BRIDGEWATER  TREATISES. 

-  Bell  (Sir  Charles)  on  the  Hand ; 

its  Mechanism  and  Vital  Endowments,  as 
evincing  Design.  Preceded  by  an  Account 
of  the  Author's  Discoveries  in  the  Nervous 
System  by  A.  Shaw.    Numerous  Woodcuts. 

Kirby  on    the  History,  Habits, 

and  Instincts  of  Animals.  With  Notes  by 
T.  Rymer  Jones.     100  Woodcuts.     2  vols. 

"Whewell's    Astronomy    and 

General  Physics,  considered  with  reference 
to  Natural  Theology.  Portrait  of  the  Earl 
of  Bridge  water.     3J,  6d. 


BRIDGEWATER    TREATISES.- 

Continncd. 
' Chalmers  on  the  Adaptation  of 

External  Nature  to  the  Moral  and  Intel- 
lectual Constitution  of  Man.  With  Memoir 
by  Rev.  Dr.  Gumming.     Portrait. 

Front's  Treatise  on  Chemistry, 

Meteorology,  and  the  Function  of  Diges- 
tion, with  reference  to  Natural  Theology. 
Edit,  by  Dr.  J.  W.  Griffith.     2  Maps. 

Buckland's  Geology  and  Miner- 
alogy'. With  Additions  by  Prof.  Owen, 
Prof.  Phillips,  and  R.  Brown.  Memoir  of 
Buckland.  Portrait.  2  vols.  15J.  Vol.  I. 
Text.  Vol.  II.  90  large  plates  with  letter- 
press. 

Roget's  Animal    and  Vegetable 

Physiology'.  463  Woodcuts.  2  vols.  6s. 
each. 

Kidd  on  the  Adaptation  of  Ex- 

ternal  Nature  to  the  I'hyisica!  Condition  of 
Man.     3^.  Set. 

CARPENTER'S  (Dr.  'W.  B.)  Zoology. 
A  Systematic  View  of  the  Structure,  Ha- 
bits, Instincts,  and  Uses  of  the  principal 
Families  of  the  Animal  Kingdom,  and  of 
the  chief  Forms  of  Fossil  Remains.  Re- 
vised by  W.  S.  Dallas,  F.L.S.  Numerous 
Woodcuts.     2  vols.     6i.  each. 


i8 


BOHN'S  LIBRARIES. 


CARPENTER'S  'Wor'kB,— Continued. 

Mechanical  Philosophy,  Astro- 
nomy, and  Horology.  A  Popular  Expo- 
sition.    i8i  Woodcuts. 

Vegetable  Physiology  and  Sys- 
tematic Botany.  A  complete  Introduction 
to  the  Knowledge  of  Plants.  Revised  by 
E.  Lankester,  M.D.,  &c.  Numerous 
Woodcuts.     6s. 

Animal  Physiology.  Revised  Edi- 
tion.    300  Woodcuts.     6s. 

CHESS  CONGRESS  of  1862.  A  col- 
lection of  the  games  played.  Edited  by 
J.  Lowenthal.     New  edition,  55. 

CHEVREUL  on  Colour.  Containing 
the  Principles  of  Harmony  and  Contrast 
of  Colours,  and  their  Application  to  the 
Arts  ;  including  Painting,  Decoration, 
Tapestries,  Carpets,  Mosaics,  Glazing, 
Staining,  Calico  Printing,  Letterpress 
Printing,  Map  Colouring,  Dress,  Land- 
scape and  Flower  Gardening,  &c.  Trans, 
by  C.  Martel.     Several  Plates. 

With  an  additional  series  of  16  Plates 

in  Colours,  -js.  6d. 

ENNEMOSER'S  History  of  Magic. 
Trans,  by  W.  Howitt.  With  an  Appendix 
of  the  most  remarkable  and  best  authenti- 
cated Stories  of  Apparitions,  Dreams, 
Second  Sight,  Table-Tuming,  and  Spirit- 
Rapping,  &c.     2  vols. 

HIND'S  Introduction  to  Astronomy. 

With  Vocabulary  of  the  Terms  in  present. 
use.     Numerous  Woodcuts.     3^.  6d.    N.S. 

HOGrG'S  (Jabez)  Elements  of  Experi- 
mental and  Natural  Philosophy.  Being 
an  Easy  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
Mechanics,  Pneumatics,  Hydrostatics, 
Hydraulics,  Acoustics,  Optics,  Caloric, 
Electricity,  Voltaism,  and  Magnetism. 
400  Woodcuts. 

HUMBOLDT'S   Cosmos;    or,  Sketch 

of  a  Physical  Description  of  the  Universe. 
Trans,  by  E.  C  Otte,  B.  H.  Paul,  and 
W.  S.  Dallas,  F.L.S.  Portrait.  5  vols. 
3^.  6d.  each,  excepting  vol.  v.,  5s. 

Personal  Narrative  of  his  Travels 

in  America  during  the  years  1799-1804. 
Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  T.  Ross.     3  vols. 

Views  of  Nature ;  or.  Contem- 
plations of  the  Sublime  Phenomena  of 
Creation,  with  Scientific  Illustrations. 
Trans,  by  E.  C.  Otte. 

HUNT'S  (Robert)  Poetry  of  Science  ; 

or.  Studies  of  the  Physical  Phenomena  of 
Nature.  By  Robert  Hunt,  Professor  at 
the  School  of  Mines. 

JOYCE'S     Scientific     Dialogues.     A 

Familiar  Introduction  to  the  Arts  and 
Sciences.  For  Schools  and  Young  People. 
Numerous  Woodcuts. 


JOYCE'S  Introduction  to  the  Arts 

and  Sciences,  for  Schools  and  Young 
People.  Divided  into  Lessons  with  Ex- 
amination Questions.     Woodcuts.    3^.  6d. 

JUKES-BROWNE'S  Student's  Hand- 
book of  Physical  Geology.  By  A.  J. 
Jukes-Browne,  of  the  Geological  Survey  of 
England.  With  numerous  Diagrams  and 
Illustrations,  6^.     N.  S. 

The    Student's     Handbook    of 

Historical  Geology.  By  A.  J.  Jukes- 
Brown,  B.A.,  F.G.S.,  of  the  Geological 
Survey  of  England  and  Wales.  With 
numerous  Diagrams  and  Illustrations.    6s, 

The    Building    of    the    British 

Islands.  A  Study  In  Geographical  Evolu- 
tion. By  A.  J.  Jukes-Browne,  F.G.S. 
7^.  6d.     A'.S. 

KNIGHT'S   (Charles)   Knowledge  is 

Power.  A  Popular  Manual  of  Political 
Economy. 

!    LILLY.    Introduction  to  Astrology. 

I        With  a  Grammar  of  Astrology  and  Tables 
]        for  calculating  Nativities,  by  Zadkiel. 

MANTELL'S    (Dr.)    Geological     Ex- 
cursions through  the   Isle  of  Wight  and 
along  the  Dorset  Coast.     Numerous  Wood- 
i        cuts  and  Geological  Map. 

1    — -  Petrifactions  and  their  Teach- 

I        ings.     Handbook  to  the  Organic  Remains 
in  the  British  Museum.     Numerous  Wood- 
';        cuts.     6s. 

I    Wonders    of    Geology;    or,    a 

Familiar  Exposition  of  Geological  Pheno- 
mena. A  coloured  Geological  Map  of 
England,  Plates,  and  200  Woodcuts.  2 
vols.  7s.  6d.  each. 

I    MORPHY'S  Games  of  Chess,  being 

I        the  Matches  and  best  Games  played  by  the 
I        American  Champion,  with  explanatory  and 
analytical  Notes  by  J.  Lowenthal.     With 
short  Memoir  and  Portrait  of  Morphy. 

SCHOtrW'S  Earth,  Plants,  and  Man. 

Popular  Pictures  of  Nature.  And  Ko- 
bell's  Sketches  from  the  Mineral  Kingdom. 
Trans,  by  A.  Henfrey,  F.R.S.  Coloured 
Map  of  the  Geography  of  Plants. 

'  SMITH'S  (Pye)  Geology  and  Scrip- 
ture ;  or,  the  Relation  between  the  Scriptiures 
and  Geological  Science.     With  Memoir. 

STANLEY'S    Classified   Synopsis  of 

the  Principal  Painters  of  the  Dutch  and 
Flemish  Schools,  including  an  Account  of 
some  of  the  early  German  Masters.  By 
George  Stanley. 

STAUNTON'S  Chess-Player's  Hand- 
book. A  Popular  and  Scientific  Intro- 
duction to  the  Game,  with  numerous  Dia- 
grams and  Coloured  Frontispiece.     N.S, 


REFERENCE  LIBRARY. 


19 


^ThXiHrTO^.— Continued. 

Chesfl  I*raxl8.     A  Supplement  to  the 

Chess-player's  Handbook.  Containing  the 
most  important  modem  Improvements  in 
the  Openings  ;  Code  of  Chess  Laws  ;  and 
a  Selection  of  Morphy's  Games.  Annotated. 
636  pages.     Diagrams.     6j. 

Chess-Player'g    Companion' 

Comprising  a  Treatise  on  Odds,  Collection 
of  Alatch  Games,  including  the  French 
Match  with  M.  St.  Amant,  and  a  Selection 
of  Original  Problems.  Diagrams  and  Co- 
loured Frontispiece. 

Chess     Tournament     of    1851. 

A  Collection  of  Games  played  at  this  cele- 
brated assemblage.  With  Introduction 
and  Notes.     Numerous  Diagrams. 


STOCKHARDT'S      Experimental 

Chemistry.  A  Handbook  for  the  Study 
of  the  Science  by  simple  Experiments. 
Edit,  by  C.  W.  Heaton,  F.C.S.  Nu- 
merous Woodcuts.     N.  S. 

URE'S  (Dr.  A.)  Cotton  Mannfactnre 

of  Great  Britain,  systematically  investi- 
gated ;  with  an  Introductory  View  of  its 
Comparative  State  in  Foreign  Countries. 
Revised  by  P.  L.  SimmoncS.  150  Illus- 
trations.    2  vols. 

Philosophy    of    ManufactnreS) 

or  an  Exposition  of  the  Scientific,  Moral, 
and  Commercial  Economy  of  the  Factory 
System  of  Great  Britain.  Revised  by 
P.  L.  Simmonds.  Numerous  Figures. 
800  pages,    ^s.  6d. 


ECONOMICS   AND    FINANCE. 

QILBART'S  History,  Principles,  and  Practice  of  Banking.    Revised  to  i83i  by 
A.  S.  Michie,  of  the  Royal  Bank  of  Scotland.     Portrait  of  Gilbart.     2  vols.     10s.     N.  S. 


REFERENCE    LIBRARY. 


28  Volumes  at  Various 

BLAIR'S     Chronological      Tables. 

Comprehending  the  Chronology  and  His- 
tory of  the  World,  from  the  Earliest  Times 
to  the  Russian  Treaty  of  Peace,  April  1856. 
ByJ.  W.  Rosse.     Seepages.     loj. 

Index    of    Dates.      Comprehending 

the  principal  Facts  in  the  Chronology  and 
History  of  the  World,  from  the  Earliest  to 
the  Present,  alphabetically  arranged;  being 
a  complete  Index  to  the  foregoing.  By 
J.  W.  Rosse.     2  vols.  55.  each. 

BOHN'S  Dictionary  of  Quotations 
from  the  English  Poets.  4th  and  cheaper 
Edition.     6^. 

BOND'S  Handy-book  of  Rules  and 

Tables  for  Verifying  Dates  with  the  Chris- 
tian Era.     4th  Edition.     .V.  .S". 

BUCHANAN'S  Dictionary  of  Science 
and  Technical  Terms  used  in  Philosophy, 
Literature,  Professions,  Commerce,  Arts, 
and  Trades.  By  W.  H.  Buchanan,  with 
Supplement.    Edited  by  Jas.  A.  Smith,  ts. 

CHRONICLES  OF  THE  TOMBS.  A 
Select  Collection  of  Epitaphs,  with  Essay 
on  Epitaphs  and  Observations  on  Sepul- 
chral Antiquiiies.  By  T.  J.  Pettigrew, 
F.R.S.,  F.S.A      ss. 

CLARK'S  (Hufrh)  Introduction  to 
Heraldry.  Revised  by  J.  R.  Planche.  5J. 
950  Illustrations. 

IVith  th€  JUustrations  coloured,   155. 

N.S. 


Prices.     (8/.  i^s.  per  set.) 

I    COINS,  Manual  ot.—See  Humphreys. 

I     DATES,  Index  of.— See  Blair. 

DICTIONARY  of  Obsolete  and  Pro- 
vincial English.  Containing  Words  from 
English  Writers  previous  to  the  19th 
Century.  By  Thomas  Wright,  M.A., 
F.S.A. ,  &c.     2  vols.  55.  each. 

EPIGRAMMATISTS  (The).  A  Selec- 
tion from  the  Epigrammatic  Literature  ef 
Ancient,  Mediaeval,  and  Modern  Times. 
With  Introduction,  Notes,  Observations, 
Illustrations,  an  Appendix  on  Works  con- 
nected with  Epigrammatic  Literature, 
by  Rev.  H.  Dodd,  M.A.    ts.    N.  S. 

GAMES,  Handbook  of.  Comprising 
Treatises  on  above  40  Games  of  Chance, 
Skill,  and  Manuai  Dexterity,  including 
Whist,  Billiards,  &c.  Edit,  by  Henry  G. 
Bohn.     Numerous  Diagrams.     55.     N.  S. 

HENFREY'S     Guide    to     English 

Coins.  Revised  Edition,  by  C.  F.  Keary 
M.A.,  F.S.A.  With  an  Historical  Intro- 
duction,    ts.     N.  S. 

HUMPHREYS'     Coin    Collectors' 

Manual.  An  Historical  Acouunt  of  the 
Progress  of  Coinage  from  the  Earliest 
Time,  by  H.  N.  Humphreys.  140  Illus- 
trations.    2  vols.  5J.  each.     ^V.  6". 


20 


BOHJVS  LIBRARIES. 


LOWNDES'  Bibliographer's  Manual 

of  English  Literature.  Containing  an  Ac- 
count of  Rare  and  Curious  Books  pub- 
lished in  or  relating  to  Great  Britain  and 
Ireland,  from  the  Invention  of  Printing, 
with  Biographical  Notices  and  Prices, 
by  W.  T.  Lowndes.  Parts  I.-X.  (A  to  Z), 
3^.  6d.  each.  Part  XI.  (Appendix  Vol.), 
55.  Or  the  II  parts  in  4  vols.,  half 
morocco,  2/.  2s. 

MEDICINE,  Handbook  of  Domestic, 

Popularlj-  Arranged.  By  Dr.  H.  Davies. 
700  pages.     55-. 

NOTED      NAMES      OF      FICTION. 

Dictionary-  of.  Including  also  Familiar 
Pseudonyms,  Surnames  bestowed  on  Emi- 
nent Men,  &c.     By  W.  A.  Wheeler,  M.A. 

POLITICAL      CYCLOPEDIA.       A 

Dictionary    of    Political,     Constitutional, 


Statistical,  and  Forensic  Knowledge  : 
forming  a  Work  of  Reference  on  subject.^ 
of  Civil  Administration,  Political  Economy, 
Finance,  Commerce,  Laws,  and  Social 
Relations.     4  vols.  35.  6d.  each. 

PROVERBS,  Handbook  of.  Con- 
taining an  entire  Republication  of  Ray's 
Collection,  with  Additions  from  Foreign 
Languages  and  Sayings,  Sentences, 
Maxims,  and  Phrases.     5^. 

A  Polyglot  of  Foreign.  Com- 
prising French,  Italian,  German,  Dutch, 
Spanish,  Portuguese,  and  Danish.  With 
English  Translations.     5^. 

SYNONYMS   and    ANTONYMS;    or, 

Kindred  Words  and  their  Opposites,  Col- 
lected and  Contrasted  by  Ven.  C.  J. 
Smith,  M.A.     55.     N.  S. 

WRIGHT  {'na..)—See  Dictionary, 


NOVELISTS'    LIBRARY. 

12  Volumes  at  y.  6d.  each,  excepting  those  marked  otheiivise.   [2.1.  ^s.  per  set. 


BURNEY'S  Evelina  ;  or,  a  Young 
Lady's  Entrance  into  the  World.  By  F. 
Burney  (Mme.  D'Arblay).  With  Intro- 
duction and  Notes  by  A.  R.  Ellis,  Author 
of 'Sylvestra,'&c.     N.  S. 

Cecilia.       With     Introduction    and 

Notes  by  A.  R.  Ellis.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

DE  STAEL.  Corinne  or  Italy. 
By  Madame  de  Stael.  Translated  by 
Emiiy  Baldwin  and  Paulina  Driver. 

EBERS'  Egyptian  Princess.  Trans, 
by  Emma  Buchheim.     N.  S. 

FIELDING'S  Joseph  Andrews  and 
his  Friend  Mr.  Abraham  Adams.  With 
Roscoe's  Biography.  Cndkshank' s  Illus- 
trations,   N.  S. 


YXE.\.YiTSSiG!.— Continued. 

Amelia.     Roscoe's  Edition,  revised. 

Cruikshank' s  Illustrations.     5J.     N.  S. 

History  of  Tom  Jones,  a  Found- 
ling. Roscoe's  Edition.  Cruikshank's 
Illustrations.     2  vols.     N.  S. 

GROSSI'S  Marco  Visconti.  Trans, 
by  A.  F.  D.     N.  S. 

MANZONI.  The  Betrothed:  being 
a  Translation  of  '  I  Promessi  Sposi.' 
Numerous  Woodcuts.  1  vol.  (732  pages). 
5^.     N.  S. 

STOWE  (Mrs.  H.  B.)     Uncle  Tom's 

Cabin  ;  or.  Life  among  the  Lowly.     8  full- 
page  Illustrations.     N.  S. 


ARTISTS'    LIBRARY. 

9  Volumes  at  Various  Prices.     (2/.  8^.  6d.  per  set.) 


BELL  (Sir  Charles).     The  Anatomy 

and  P'hilosophy  of  Expression,  as  Con- 
nected with  the  Fine  Arts.     5J.     N.  S. 

DEMMIN.      History   of  Arms   and 

Armour  from  the  Earliest  Period.  By 
Auguste  Demmin.  Trans,  by  C.  C. 
Black,  M.A.,  Assistant  Keeper,  S.  K. 
Museum.    1900  Illustrations,   js.  6d.   N.S. 

FAIRHOLT'S  Costume  in  England. 

Third  Edition.     Enlarged  and  Revised  by 
the   Hon.   H.   A.   Dillon,    F.S.A.      With 
more  than  700   Engravings.      2   vols.    5^. 
each.     N.  S, 
Vol.  I.  History.    Vol.    I.  Glossary. 

FLAXMAN.    Lectures  on  Sculpture. 

With  Three  Addresses  to  the  R.A.  by  Sir 
R.  We^tmacott,  R.A.,  and  Memoir  o 
Flaxman,  Portrait  and  53  Plates.   6s.  N.S. 


H EATON'S    Concise    History    of 

Painting.  New  Edition,  revised  by 
W.  Cosmo  Monkhouse.     55-.     K.S. 

LECTURES    ON    PAINTING    by    the 

Royal  Academicians,  Barry,  Opie,  Fuseli. 
With  Introductory  Essay  and_  Notes  by 
R.  Wornum.     Portrait  of  Fuseli. 

LEONARDO    DA    VINCI'S    Treatise 

on  Painting.  Trans,  by  J.  F.  Rigaud,  R.A. 
With  a  Life  and  an  Account  of  his  Works 
by  J.W.  Brown.  Numerous  Plates.  5^.  N.S. 

PLANCHE'S    History    of    British 

Costume,  from  the  Earliest  Time  to  the 
19th  Centurj'.  By  J.  R.  Planche.  400 
Illustrations.     SJ.     N.  S, 


(  21  ) 

BOHN'S   CHEAP   SERIES. 

PRICE  ONE  SHILLING  EACH. 

A  Series  of  Complete  Stories  or  Essays^  mostly  repri?ifed  from  Vols. 

in  Bohn^s  Libraries^  and  neatly  bound  in  stiff  paper  cover, 

with  cut  edges y  suitable  for  Railway  Reading. 

ASCHAM  [ROGER).— 

SCHOLEMASTER.     By  PROFESSOR  Mayor. 

CARPENTER  {DR.   W.  B.).— 

PHYSIOLOGY     OF     TEMPERANCE     AND     TOTAL    AB- 
STINENCE. 

EMERSOiV.— 

ENGLAND  AND  ENGLISH  CHARACTERISTICS.    Lectures 
on  the  Race,  Ability,  Manners,  Truth,  Character,  Wealth,  Religion,  &c.  &c. 

NATURE  :  An  Essay.     To  which  are  added  Orations,  Lectures 
and  Addresses. 

REPRESENTATIVE  MEN  :  Seven  Lectures  on  Plato,  Swe- 
DENBORG,  Montaigne,  Shakespeare,  Napoleon,  and  Goethe. 

TWENTY  ESSAYS  on  Various  Subjects. 
THE  CONDUCT  OF  LIFE. 

FRANKLIN  {BENfAMIN).— 

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.    Edited  by  J.  Sparks. 

HAWTHORNE  {NATHANIEL).— 

TWICE-TOLD  TALES.     Two  Vols,  in  One 

SNOW  IMAGE,  and  other  Tales. 

SCARLET  LETTER. 

HOUSE  WITH  THE  SEVEN  GABLES. 

TRANSFORMATION  ;  or  the  Marble  Fawn.     Two  Parts. 

HAZLITT  {W.).— 

TABLE-TALK  :  Essays  on  Men  and  Manners.     Three  Parts. 

PLAIN    SPEAKER  :    Opinions   on  Books,    Men,    and    Things 
Three  Parts. 

LECTURES  ON  THE  ENGLISH  COMIC  WRITERS. 

LECTURES  ON  THE  ENGLISH  POETS. 


22  BOHN'S  CHEAP  SERIES. 

HAZLITT  ( W.).— Continued. 

LECTURES    ON    THE    CHARACTERS    OF    SHAKE- 
SPEARE'S PLAYS. 
LECTURES   ON   THE   LITERATURE  OF   THE  AGE  OF 

ELIZABETH,  chiefly  Dramatic. 

IRVING  {WASHINGTON).— 

LIFE  OF  MOHAMMED.     With  Portrait. 

LIVES  OF  SUCCESSORS  OF  MOHAMMED. 

LIFE  OF  GOLDSMITH. 

SKETCH-BOOK. 

TALES  OF  A  TRAVELLER. 

TOUR  ON  THE  PRAIRIES. 

CONQUESTS  OF  GRANADA  AND  SPAIN.     Two  Parts. 

LIFE  AND  VOYAGES  OF  COLUMBUS.     Two  Parts. 

COMPANIONS    OF    COLUMBUS  :    Their  Voyages  and  Dis- 
coveries. 

ADVENTURES  OF  CAPTAIN  BONNEVILLE  in  the  Rocky 

Mountains  and  the  Far  West. 
KNICKERBOCKER'S  HISTORY  OF  NEW  YORK,  from  the 

Beginning  of  the  World  to  the  End  of  the  Dutch  Dynasty. 
TALES  OF  THE  ALHAMBRA. 
CONQUEST     OF    FLORIDA    UNDER    HERNANDO    DE 

SOTO. 
ABBOTSFORD  AND  NEWSTEAD  ABBEY. 
SALMAGUNDI;     or,    The    Whim -Whams    and    Opinions    of 

Launcelot  Langstaff,  Esq. 

BRACEBRIDGE  HALL  ;  or.  The  Humourists. 

ASTORIA  ;  or.  Anecdotes  of  an  Enterprise  beyond  the  Rocky 

Mountains. 

WOLFERT'S  ROOST,  and  Other  Tales. 

LAMB  {CHARLES).— 

ESSAYS  OF  ELIA.     With  a  Portrait. 
LAST  ESSAYS  OF  ELIA. 
ELIANA.     With  Biographical  Sketch. 

MARRYAT  {CAPIAIN). 

PIRATE  AND  THE  THREE  CUTTERS.    With  a  Memoir  of 

the  Author, 


(  23  ) 

The  only  authorised  Edition;  no  others  published  in  Enj^land  contain 

the  Derivations  and  Ety?nological  Notes  of  Dr.  Mahn^  who 

devoted  sez'cral  years  to  this  portion  of  tJie  Work. 

Y^EBSTER'S     DICTIONARY 

OF    THE    ENGLISH    LANGUAGE. 

Thoroughly  revised  and  improved  byCHAUNCEY  A.  Goodrich,  D.D.,  LL.D., 
and  Noah  Porter,  D.D.,  of  Yale  College. 


THE    GUINEA    DICTIONARY. 

New  Edition  [1880],  with  a  Supplement  of  upwards  of  4600  New  Words  and 

Meanings. 
1628  Pages.     3000  Illustrations. 

The  features  of  this  volume,  which  render  it  perhaps  the  most  useful 
Dictionary  for  general  reference  extant,  as  it  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  cheapest 
books  ever  published,  are  as  follows  : — 

1.  Completeness. — It  contains  114,000  words. 

2.  Accuracy  of  Definition. 

3.  Scientific  and  Technical  Terms. 

4.  Etymology. 

5.  The  Orthography  is  based,  as  far  as  possible,  on  Fixed  Principles. 

6.  Pronunciation. 

7.  The  Illustrative  Citations. 

8.  The  Synonyms. 

9.  The  Illustrations,  which  exceed  3000. 

Cloth,  21J.  ;  half-bound  in  calf,  30J.  ;  calf  or  half  russia,  3IJ.  (id.\  russia,  2/. 


With  New  Biop^aphical  Appe7idix^  containiti^r  over  9700  Names. 

THE   COMPLETE    DICTIONARY 

Contains,  in  addition  to  the  above  matter,  several  valuable  Literary  Appendices, 

and  70  extra  pages  of  Illustrations,  grouped  and  classified. 

I  vol.  1919  pages,  cloth,  3IJ.  6^. 

'  Certainly  the  best  practical  English  Dictionary  extant.' — Quarterly  Review,  1873. 

Prospectuses^  -joith  Specinun  Pages^  sent  post  free  on  application. 


*.  *    To  be  obtained  through  all  Booksellers. 


Bohn's  Select  Library  of  Standard  Works. 
»♦♦♦♦♦ 

Price  IS.  in  paper  covers,  and  is.  6d.  in  cloth. 

1.  Bacon's  Essays.     With  Introduction  and  Notes. 

2.  Lessing's  Laokoon.     Beasley's  Translation,  revised,  with  Intro- 

duction, Notes,  &c.,  by  Edward  Hell,  M.A. 

3.  Dante's  Inferno.     Translated,  with  Notes,  by  Rev.  H.  F.  Gary. 

4.  Goethe's    Faust.     Part  I.     Translated,   with    Introduction,   by 

Anna  Swanwick. 

5.  Goethe's   Boyhood.     Being    Part    I.    of   the    Autobiography. 

Translated  by  J.  Oxenford. 

6.  Schiller's  Mary  Stuart  and  The  Maid  of  Orleans.   Trans- 

lated by  J.  Mellish  and  Anna  Swanwick. 

7.  The  Queen's  English.     By  the  late  Dean  Alford. 

8.  Life  and  Labours  of  the  late  Thomas  Brassey.     By  Sir 

A.  Helps,  K.C.B. 

9.  Plato's  Dialogue's:  The  Apology — Crito — Phaedo— Protagoras. 

With  Introductions. 

10.  Moliere's  Plays  :  The  Miser — Tartuffe— The  Shopkeeper  turned 

Gentleman.     With  brief  Memoir. 

11.  Goethe's  Reineke  Fox,  in  EngHsh  Hexameters.    By  A.  Rogers. 

12.  Oliver  Goldsmith's  Plays. 

13.  Lessing's  Plays  :  Nathan  the  Wise — Minna  von  Barnhelm. 

14.  Plautus's  Comedies:  Trinummus  —  Menaechmi  — Aulularia  — 

Captivi. 

15.  Waterloo  Days.     By  C.  A.  Eaton.     With  Preface  and  Notes  by 

Edward  Bell. 

16.  Demosthenes— On    the    Crown.      Translated    by    C.    Rann 

Kennedy. 

17.  The  Vicar  of  Wakefield. 

18.  Oliver  Cromwell.     By  Dr.  Reinhold  Pauli. 

19.  The  Perfect  Life.     By  Dr.  Channing.     Edited' by  his  nephew. 

Rev.  W.  H.  Channing. 

20.  Ladies  in  Parliament,  Horace  at  Athens,  and  other  pieces, 

by  Sir  George  Otto  Trevelyan,  Bart. 

-I.  Defoe's  The  Plague  in  London. 

22.  Irving's  Life  of  Mahomet. 

23.  Horace's  Odes,  by  various  hands.  [O///  of  print, 

24.  Burke's   Essay  on  'The   Sublime  and   Beautiful.'     With 

Short  Memoir. 

25.  Hauff's  Caravan. 

26.  Sheridan's  Plays. 

27.  Dante's  Purgatorio.     Translated  by  Cary. 

To  he  followed  by 

Harvey's  Treatise  on  the  Circulation  of  the  Blood. 

Cicero's  Friendship  and  Old  Age. 


LONDON:  GEORGE  BELL  AND  SONS. 


London  :  Printed  by  Strangeways  &  Sons,  Tower  Street,  Cambridge  Circus,  W.C. 


