CONTENTS 

CHAP.  PAGE 

I.    THE     MAKING     OF    THE     ENGLISH     SPEECH.       (670- 

1400) 11 

II.  THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE.   (1400-1660)  .     .    27 
III.  THE  AGE  OF  SATIRE  (FROM  BUTLER  TO  POPE). 

(c.  1660-1740) 57 

IV.    THE     AGE     OF     SENSE     AND    SENSIBILITY     (JOHNSON 
AND      THE      EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY      NOVELISTS). 

(c.  1740-80) 69 

V.    THE   ROMANTIC    REVIVAL.       (c.    1780-1832)  .  .          76 

VI.    THE    VICTORIAN   ERA.       (c.    1832-1900)  .  .          90 

A    NOTE    ON    PRESENT   DAY   TENDENCIES  .  .110 

HINTS    FOR    FURTHER    STUDY  .  .  .112 


263195 


CHRONOLOGICAL  SYNOPSIS 


THE   MAKING   OF   THE   ENGLISH   SPEECH 


c.  520    . 
C.  670    . 


Its  composite  texture  —Persistence  of  the  Anglo-Saxon 
element.  —  Nature  of  English  Poetry.  —  The  earliest 
English  Poems  ........ 

Beowulf.     Widsith.    Dear's  Complaint       .... 

The  first  maker  of  English  verse—  C.3EDMON    ... 

Csedmou's  Pwaphrase         „        ...... 


11 
13 
14 
15 


THE  ANGLO-SAXON  PEPvIOD 
(c.  670— c.  1050) 

Anglo-Saxon  Poetry     ....  ...      15 

8th  cent.  .    .    .    CYNEWULF ,       .       .     15 

937 Song  of  Brunanburgh 15 

Characteristics    of    Anglo-Saxon   Poetry:    Parallelism  ; 
alliteration  ;   absence  of  rhyme  ;  compound  words ;  < 

diffuse  style 

Anglo-Saxon  Prose,  mainly  educational    .... 

731 BEDK'S  Ecclesiastical  Uistory 

849-901     .    .    .    ALFRED,     founder    of    English    prose;    Anglo-Saxon 

Chronicle  begun 

Late  10th  cent.!.    Literature  flourishes  under  EDGAR  and  ELFRIC      .       .      17 


THE  MIDDLE   ENGLISH  PERIOD 
(c.  1050— c.  1400) 

Middle  English  Poetry:  Characteristics   . 
The  Religious  and  the  Romantic  Note    . 

(a)  The  Religious  Note        .... 
c.  1215      .     .     .        Orm's  Ormulum 

Lives  of  the  Saints 

13th  cent.     .    .        The  Ancren  Riwle 

Richard  Rolle,  forerunner  of  Langland    . 

14th  cent.     .    .    WILLIAM  LANGLAND  and  Piers  Plowman 
Langland's  personality  and  work 
Analysis  of  Piers  Plowman 
Piers  Plowman  and  John  Ball . 

e.  1320-84     .    .    WYCLIF  and  his  work. 
Compare  with  Langland 

(b)  The  Romantic  Note 

A  new  departure— sentiment  and  gaiety 
"Courtly"  and  "Popular"  poetry 
iv 


CHRONOLOGICAL  SYNOPSIS 


BATE 
1205     , 


1220 


14th  cent 
14th  cent. 


.    Le  Brut  and  Layamon 21 

Its  importance 21 

The  Owl  and  the  Nightingale 21 

Three  great  Story-cycles  :    the  matter  of   Home,   the 

matter  of  France,  the  matter  of  Britain  21 

Importance  of  the  Arthurian  Cycle          ....  22 

Ballad  Poetry  (13th  to  close  of  15th  century)         .        .  23 

Early  History  and  Philosophy:— 24 

Geoffrey    of    Monmouth ;    William    of    Malmesbury ; 

Glanville  ;  Roger  Bacon 24 

John  Gower :  Confessio  Atnantis 24 

GEOFFREY  CHAUCER  :— 24 

The  Canterbury  Tales 25 


c.  1370-c.  1450. 
c.  1370-c.  1451. 
1394-1437  .  . 
c.  1430-1506  . 
C.  1474-1522  . 
c.  1422-91  .  . 


1422-1509 
1478-1535 
1523-5.  . 


II 

THE   ENGLISH   RENASCENCE 
(1400-1660) 

The  Intermediate  Period  :— 

.    Thomas  Hoccleve 27 

.    John  Lydgate       .              27 

.    James  I,  Kingis  Quhair 28 

.    Robert  Henryson  :  Garment  of  Good  Ladies         .       .  28 

.    Gavin  Douglas 28 

.    CAXTON,  and  Sir  THOMAS  MALORY'S  Morte  d' Arthur: 

(c.  1470) £8 

Its  significance 28 

.     The  Paston  Letters 

.    More's  Utopia 28 

.     Lord  Berner's  translation  of  Fromart  .        .  .28 

1.  The  Drama:— 

Its  place  in  Elizabethan  Literature       ....  28 

Four  Stages  in  its  Development : 29 

1.  Mysteries  and  Miracle  Flays  in  the  Church  .      .  29 

2.  ,,                ,,                   ,,       in  the  Market-place  29 

3.  Morality  and  Interlude  : 30 

Everyman,  and  Heywood's  Four  P's  ...  30 

4.  Beginning  of  English  Tragedy:  Gorboduc  (1561-62) 

(Ferrex  and  Pollux) 31 

Cowedy : — 

Ralph  Roister  Bolster;  Gammer  Gurton's  Needle        .  31 

"The  University  Wits" 31 

Marlowe;  Lyly;  Greene;  Peele  ;  Lodge;  Nash;  Kyd  31 
CHRISTOPHER  MARLOWE  :— 

His  influence  on  the  Drama.     His  Plays  summarised  31 

His  Verse.     Illustrations 31 

First  Theatre  built  by  James  Burbage,  at  Blackfriars, 

then  the  Curtain,  Globe,  and  Fortune      ...  34 
15G4-1616     .    .    WILLIAM  SHAKESPEARE  :— 

The  four  Periods  of  Play-writing  .  35 
Sketch  of  his  Life     ....                                .35 

Nature  of  the  Shakespearean  Drama                     <        .  37 
The  Poet.    Illustrations  ...                                .,38 

The  Psychologist.     Illustrations      .                         .  38 
573-1637     .    .    BEN  JONSON:  The  Man  and  his  Methods  — 

His  chief  Plays.    Characteristics    .  ... 

Influence  on  the  Drama 39 


1576. 


CHRONOLOGICAL   SYNOPSIS 


DATE 
1584-1616. 


c.  1570-1627 
c.  1570-1641 
c.  1639  .  . 
c.  1582-1652 
1583-1640  . 
1616  ,  .  . 


1557  .  . 
150^-1542 
c.  1516-47 


PAGE 
41 


c.  1525-77  .  . 

1536-1608  .  . 

1554-86     .  .  . 

1563-1631  .  . 

1552-99     .  .  . 

Late  16th  and . 

17th  cent.  .  . 


1573-1631 


1608-74 


c.  1540-94  . 
1554-1606  . 

c.  1560-92  . 

c.  1558-1625 
1567-1601  . 

1515-68  .  . 
c.  1554-1600 
1561-1626  . 


.    Beaumont  and  Fletcher  (1579-1625) 

Knight  of  the  Burning  Pestle  ;  Spanish  Curate ;  Wild 
Goose  Chase  ......... 

.    Thomas  Middleton  :  The  Changeling     .... 

.    Thomas  Dekker :  Shoemaker's  Holiday  .... 

.    John  Ford  :  The  Broken  Heart 

.    John  Webster :  The  White  Devil ;  Duchess  of  Malfi  . 
.  "Philip  Massinger  :  New  Way  to  Pay  Old  Debts      .    . 

.    Chapman's  translation  of  Homer 

2.  Poetry  : — 

.    Tottel's  Miscellany 

.    Sir  Thomas  Wyatt 

.    Earl  of  Surrey:  translated  2nd  JSneid 

First  example  of  English  blank  verse 
.    George  Gascoigne : 

Flowers,  Herbs  and  Weeds;  Steele  Glas     . 
.    Thomas   Sackville :  Complaint  of  Duke  of  Buckina- 

hame 

.    Sir  PHILIP  SIDNEY: 

Arcadia;  Defense  of  Poetrie;  Sonnets 
.    Michael  Drayton  : 

Epistles  of  Poets  and  Poesie;  Polyolbion;  Battle  of 
Agincourt ;  JNymphadia 43 


1604  . 

1628-88 


1605-82  . 
1577-1640 


.    EDMUND  SPENSER:  Characteristics 

Shepherd's  Calendar;  Faerie  Queene  .... 
The  Lyric  School:— 

.  William  Byrd ;  Thomas  Tallis ;  John  Dowland ; 
Thomas  Campion  ;  John  Daniel ;  Robert  Jones  ; 
Thomas  Morley ;  Sir  William  Davenant;  Giles  and 
Phineas  Fletcher  ;  Drummpnd  of  Hawthornden ; 
William  Browne  ;  George  Wither ;  Sir  John  Davies ; 

Fulke  Greville  (Lord  Brooke) 46 

.    John  Donne 4£ 

Herbert  of  Cherbury  (1583-1648)  first  to  use  the  metre 
of  In  Memoriam  ;  Robert  Herrick  (1591-1674) ;  Sir 
Robert  Suckling  (1609-1642);  Richard  Lovelace 
(1618-58);  Richard  Crashaw  (c.  1613-49);  Henry 
Vaughan  (1621-1693);  George  Herbert  (1593-1633) 
.  JOHN  MILTON  :  last  great  Poet  of  the  Renascence  . 

Characteristics  :  Puritan  Note 

Illustrations 

3.  The  Novel:— 

.    William  Painter's  Italian  Stories 

.    JOHN  LYLY  :  pioneer  of  the  English  Novel . 

Euphues;  the  Anatomy  of  Wit 

.    Robert  Greene : — 

Pandosto  ;  Life  and  Death  of  Ned  Browne 

.    Thomas  Lodge:  Rosalynde 

.     Thomas  Nash :  Life  of  Jack  Wilton       .... 

4.  Prose  other  than  Fiction: — 

.    Roger  Ascham  :  his  intluence  on  prose .... 

.    Richard  Hooker         .  

.  Sir  FRANCIS  BACON:  Essays;  Advancement  of  Learn- 
ing;  History  of  Henry  VII ;  New  Atlantic  com- 
pared with  More's  Utopia 

.    AUTHORISED  VERSION  OF  THE  BIBLE  :—  56 

Its  influence  on  English  Literature    ....      56 
.    JOHN  BUNYAN  :— 57 

Characteristics  and  Influence 56 

.    Browne's  Religio  Medici 56 

.    Burton's  Anatomie  of  Melancholic         ....      50 


48 
48 
49 
49 

51 
51 
52 
52 

52 
52 
53 

54 
54 


M 


CHRONOLOGICAL   SYNOPSIS 


Vll 


1631-1700  . 

1685-1732  . 

1688-1744  . 

1670-1729  . 

1652-85  .  . 

1640-1715  . 
c.  1666-1726 

1678-1707  . 

1728-74  .  . 


1609-74  . 
1588-1679 
1630  -94  . 
1613-67  . 
1628-99  . 
1633-95  . 
1633-1703 
1620-1706 
1653-1734 
1632-1704 
1672-1719 
1672-1729 


III 

THE   AGE   OF   SATIRE 

(From  Butler  to  Pope) 
(c.  1660-1740) 

Introduction,     Characteristics  of  the  Period 

1.  Poetry:— 

Samuel   Butler  (1612-80);  Abraham  Cowley  (1618-67) 
Edmund  Waller  (1605-87) ;  John  Denham  (1615-69) 
.    JOHN  DRYDEN  :  Dramatist ;  Poet ;  Proseman 

.    John  Gay    

.    ALEXANDER  POPE 

2.  The  Drama:— 
WILLIAM  CONGREVE 


PAGE 

57 


59 
60 
60 
60 

61 
THOMAS  OTWAY 62 


.    WILLIAM  WYCHERLEY 

.    Sir  JOHN  VANBRUGH 

.    GEORGE  FARQUHAR  .       .       .       .       . 
.    OLIVER  GOLDSMITH 

Sir  George  Etheredge ;  Mrs.  Behn ;  Shadwell 
3.  Prose: — 

.    E?.rl  of  Clarendon :  History  of  the  Great  Rebellion 
.    THOMAS  HOBBES  :  Leviathan   .       . 
.     John  Tillotson :  On  the  Wisdom  of  being  Religimis 

Jeremy  Taylor 


62 
62 
62 


63 
Sir  William  Temple 64 


1695  .  .  . 
c.  1661-1731 
1667-1745  . 

1667-1735  . 
1685-1753  . 
c.  1670-1733 


George  Savile  (Marquis  of  Halifax) 

SAMUEL  PEPYS 

John  Evelyn 

Roger  North  :  Lives 

JOHN  LOCKE       .  .... 

JOSEPH  APDISON:  The  Tatler  and  Spectator 
RICHARD   STEELE  :  started  the  Tatler  (1709-11)  ; 

curivs  Gallobelgicu*  (1594),  first  newspaper 
Censorship  of  the  Press  abolished  . 
DANIEL  DEFOE  :  Robinson  Crusoe,  &c.  . 

JONATHAN  SWIFT  : 

Trend  and  significance  of  his  work    . 

Dr.  John  Arbuthnot 

GEORGE  BERKELEY    

Bernard  Mandeville :  Fable  of  the  Bees . 


Mer- 


64 
64 
64 
64 
64 
64 

65 
66 
66 
67 


1709-84 
1729-97 


IV 

THE  AGE   OF   SENSE   AND    SENSIBILITY 
(c.  1740-1780) 

Dr.  Johnson  and  the  eighteenth-century  Novel  .        .  69 

Characteristics  of  the  later  eighteenth  century  .        .  69 

...    Dr.  JOHNSON      .........  70 

Goldsmith  and  Johnson  .......  70 

.    .    .    EDMUND  BURKE 71 

Historians :  Hume  ;  Robertson ;  Gibbon        ...  71 
Philosophy    and     Letters:     Hume;     Adam     Smith; 

Chalmers ;  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds ;  HORACE  WALPOLE  71 


Vlll 

DATE 


CHRONOLOGICAL   SYNOPSIS 


PAGE 

The  Novel:  SAMUEL  RICHARDSON  (1689-1761) 

HENRY  FIELDING  (1707-54) ;  TOBIAS  SMOLLETT  (1721-71)  73 

LAURENCE  STERNE  (1713-68) ;  OLIVER  GOLDSMITH      .  74 

Fanny  Burney  (1752-1840) ;  JANE  AUSTEN  (1775-1817)  75 


THE   KOMANTIC   KEVIVAL 
(c.  1780-1832) 

Introduction 76 

Romanticism.     Characteristics : 

(a)  The  Spiritualising  of  Nature         .        .  78 
(V)  The  Humanising  of  Social  Life     .        .                .78 

Connection  between   Romanticism   and    the  English 

Renascence 78 

1.  Poetry: 

Thomson's  Seasons;  Gray's  Elegy;  Collins'  Odes.        .  78 

Young's  Sight  Thoughts;  Akenside       ....  78 
Wordsworth  and  his  School:— 

BLAKE  and  COWPER 78 

1770-1850     .    .    .    WILLIAM  WORDSWORTH:  Characteristics      ...  79 

1772-1834     .    .    .    S.  T.  COLERIDGE  :  Characteristics    .               ...  SO 
The  Poetry  of  Lowly  Life  :— 

CRABBE  ;  Shenstone  ;  Elliott ;  Clare       ....  80 

Scott  and  his  School :  The  Historical  Kote  ...  80 

1686-1758     .    .    .     Allan  Ramsay 81 

1771-1832     ...    Sir  WALTER  SCOTT 81 

John  Leyden ;  JAMES  HOGG  ;  Thomas  Campbell ; 
Thomas  Moore  ;  Robert  Southey  ;  Robert  Mont- 
gomery ;  Mrs.  Hemans 81 

1788-1824     .    .    .     Lord  BYRON  :  Characteristics bl 

1792-1822     .    .    .    PERCY  BYSSHE  SHELLEY  :— 

Characteristics  :  Influence  of  Godwin         ...  82 

1795-1821     .    .    .    JOHN  KEATS:  Characteristics 83 

1775-1864     .    .     .    Walter  Savage  Landor £4 

2.  The  Novel  :— 

1717-97     ....    Walpole :  Castle  of  Otranto 84 

1760-1844      .    .    .    Beckford  :  Vathek ;  Day's  Sandford  and  Merton         .  84 

1753-1821      .    .     .    Mrs.  Inchbald :  Simple  Story 84 

The  Note  of  Mystery  and  Terror:— 
Mrs.    Radcliffe    (1764-1823);   William    Godwin   (1756- 

1836) 85 

1767-1849     .    .    .    Maria  Edgeworth  :  Castle  Rackrent        ....  85 

1769-1853     .    .     .    Mrs.  Opie :   Adeline  Afowbray 85 

1797-1851     .     .    .     Mary  Shelley :  Frankenstein 85 

1782-1824     .     .    .    Maturin :  Melmoth 85 

Sir  WALTER  SCOTT  :  Characteristics       ....  86 
Susan    Ferrier   (1782-1854):    John    Gait    (1779-1S39); 
James  Grant  (1822-87);  Bulwer  Lytton  (1803-73); 
Morier  (1780-1849) ;  T.  L.  Peacock  (1785-1866),  and 

his  stories 87 

3.  Pro.se  other  than  Fiction:— 

1778-1830     .    .    .    WILLIAM  HAZLITT  :  Characteristics                             .  £7 

1775-1834     .    .    .    CHARLES  LAMB 88 

1785-1859     .    .    .    THOMAS  DE  QUINCEY:  Characteristics  ....  88 


CHRONOLOGICAL   SYNOPSIS  ix 

DATE  PAGE 

1784-1859    .    .    .    LEIGH  HUNT:  Characteristics &> 

Late  18th  and  early 

19th  centuries .     .    Reviews ;  Magazines  ;  Journals 90 

Some  Notable  Rcveiwers  :— 
Francis    Jeffrey ;    Sydney   Smith ;    Lord    Brougham ; 

Professor  Wilson  ;  John  Lockhart   ....      90 


VI 


THE   VICTORIAN   ERA 

(c.  1832-1900) 

Introduction 90 

Characteristics  :— 

(a)  The  Democratic  Note 00 

(b)  The  Scientific  Note 90 

1.  Poetry:— 

.    Thomas  Hood 90 

.    ALFRF")  TENNYSON 91 

.    ROBERT  BROWNING 92 

Tennyson  and  Browning  compared        ...  92 

.    ELIZABETH  BARRETT  BROWNING 93 

.    MATTHEW  ARNOLD 93 

The  Pre-Raphaelite  School:  Characteristics      ...  94 

.    DANTE  GABRIEL  R.OSSETTI 94 

.    CHRISTINA  ROSSETTI «j5 

WILLIAM  MORRIS  : — 

The  Poet ;  the  Romancer ;  the  Social  Reformer  .       .  95 
ALGERNON  CHARLES  SWINBURNE  :— 

Versification                        , 96 

Thomson's  City  of  Dreadful  Night:— 

Robert  Buchanan 96 

11  amour  and  Satire:  "Light  Verse"  and  Parody.        .  9G 

R.  H.  Barham  :  Ingoldsby  Legends        ....  96 

"Lewis  Carroll"        ........  97 

James   and  Horace    Smith ;   C.    S.   Calverley ;  J.  K. 

Stephen;  W.  S.  Gilbert 97 

Mr.  Edmund  Gosse ;  Mr.  Austin  Dobson      ...  97 

Mr.  Owen  Seaman 97 

Philosophic  Poetry : — 

.    GEORGE  MEREDITH 97 

Bailey's  Festus ;  Home's  Orion 97 

Other  Poets:  — 

.    EDWARD  FITZGERALD  :  tr.  Omar  Khayyam  ...  97 

Coventry  Pat  more 97 

2.  Fiction: — 

.    CHARLES  DICKENS 98 

Nature  of  his  genius 98 

.    WILLIAM  MAKEPEACE  THACKERAY       ....  98 

Dickens  and  Thackeray  compared       ....  98 

The  BRONTES  :  Charlotte  (1816-55)  and  Emily  (1818-48)  99 

Mrs.  Gaskell;  Mary  Barton;  Cranford         .        .        .100 

Miss  Mitford  ;  Our  Village 100 

.    GEORGE  ELIOT   . 100 

The  Novel  of  Character 100 

Influence  of  Spencer  and  Comte        .       .       .       .100 


X 

DATE 


1850-94    . 

1848-87     . 

1795-1831 


1819-1900 


CHEONOLOGICAL  SYNOPSIS 


Anthony  Trollope :   Mrs.    Humphry  Ward,  and  Mr! 

Henry  James 101 

GEORGE  MEREDITH 

Mr.  THOMAS  HARDY 

Realistic  Fiction: 

The  work  of  George  Moore  and  George  Gissing  . 
Romance  and  Realism: — 

Charles  Lever ;  Charles  Reade ;  Charles  Kingsley ; 
Wilkie  Collins  ;  George  Borrow ;  Mr.  Watts-Dunton 
and  Ayhvin;  Miss  Braddon;  Mrs.  Henry  Wood; 

"Ouida" 

Romance : — 

E.  D.  Blackmore ;  William  Black ;  Sir  Walter  Besant ; 
J.  S.  Shorthouse ;  George  MacDonald's  fantasies ; 

Mrs.  Oliphant 

.    EGBERT  Louis  STEVENSON 

Stevenson  and  Morris  compared         .... 
Rudyard  Kipling       .        .        . 
.    Richard  Jefferies  :  Naturalist-Romancer 
S.  History  and  Criticism: — 
.    THOMAS  CARLYLE  :  Critic ;  Historian  ;  Humorist 

His  Social  Strictures 

Historians : — 

H.  E.  Buckle ;  T.  B.  Macaulay ;  E.  A.  Freeman  ;  J.  R. 
Green ;  J.  A.  Froude ;  Henry  Hallam  ;  W.  E.  H. 
Lecky;  James  Bryce ;  S.  R.  Gardiner;  James 
Gairdner ;  Mandell  Creighton  ;  Bishop  Stubbs ; 

Prof.  Seeley 

Criticism :  Literary,  Theological,  Political,  Social  . 
MATTHEW  ARNOLD;   George  Henry  Lewes;  THOMAS 

HUXLEY 107 

John  Henry  Newman;  John  Keble;  Dean    Church; 

Mark  Pattison 

Dean  Stanley ;  Benjamin  Jowett ;  F.  D.  Maurice, 
pioneer  of  Christian  Socialism  ;  Francis  Newman  ; 
Robertson  of  Brighton,  Working  Class  Lectures 
on  Poetry ;  W.  R.  Greg ;  James  Martineau  . 

Harriet  Martineau 

.    JOHN  RUSKIN 

J.  A.  Symonds;  Walter  Pater;  Oscar  Wilde 

R.  H.  Hutton  and  The  Spectator 

Mr.  Watts-Dunton  and  The  Athenceum 

Leslie  Stephen 

Mr.  Edward  Carpenter;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sidney  Webb; 
Mr.  Belfort  Bax ;  Mr.  J.  A.  Hobson ;  Mr.  Bernard 

Shaw 

Present  Day  Tendencies:— 
(a)  Far-reaching  Influence  of  Modern  Journalism    . 

(&)  The  Revival  of  the  Drama 

Journalism  and  Poetry: — 

Mr.    Kipling ;    John    Davidson ;   W.  E  Henley ;  Mr. 
John  Masefield  ....... 

Journalism  and  the  Revival  of  the  Drama : — 

J.  M.  Synge  ;  Mr    Bernard  Shaw 110 

Defect  of  Present  Day  Literature Ill 

Importance  of  the  Human  Element      .       .       .       .111 


101 
102 


103 


103 


104 
104 
105 
105  ' 
105 

105 
105 


107 
107 


108 


108 
108 
109 
109 
110 
110 
110 


110 


110 
110 


110 


A  HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH 
LITERATURE 

i 

THE  MAKING  OF  THE  ENGLISH  SPEECH 

Introduction.— The  fabric  of  our  literature  is  shot  with  the 
varying  tints  of  racial  characteristics  ;  the  sombre  imagination 
of  the  Celt,  the  flaming  passion  of  the  Saxon,  the  golden  gaiety 
of  France,  and  the  prismatic  fancy  of  the  South.  Many  have 
been  the  influences  brought  to  bear  upon  our  speech.  Yet  in 
this  composite  texture  the  Anglo-Saxon  element  dominates. 
That  is  the  outstanding  fact.  We  have  only  to  take  some 
passage  of  modern  poetry,  say  a  few  lines  from  Tennyson's 
Passing  of  Arthur,  to  realise  clearly  the  complex  character  of  our 
tongue,  and  the  persistence  of  the  Saxon  element — • 

"  Then  from  the  dawn  it  seemed  there  came,  but  faint 
As  from  beyond  the  limit  of  the  world, 
Like  the  last  echo  born  of  a  great  cry, 
Sounds,  as  if  some  fair  city  were  one  voice 
Around  a  king  returning  from  his  wars." 

Here  we  have  in  the  ancient  story  of  Arthur  the  earliest 
strand  in  our  literature — the  Celtic  element ;  though  the  legend 
of  the  Mysterious  Passing  was  interwoven  with  it  at  a  later 
date  by  the  French  Romancers. 

Looking  at  the  words,  forty-three  in  number,  it  will  be  seen 
that  of  these  thirty-three  are  of  Anglo-Saxon  origin.  For  in- 
stance :  dawn,  from  Anglo-Saxon  dagian,  "  to  become  day " ; 
king,  from  Anglo-Saxon  cyning.  This  illustrates  the  practical 
predominance  of  the  Saxon  element  in  our  speech.  Of  the  re- 
maining words,  five  are  from  the  French — e.g.  faint  from  old 

11 


12    :A  S  (STORY  OF.  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

French  faint,  and  cry  from  crier;  sounds  from  old  French  soun  ; 
city  from  French  rite,  and  voice  from  old  French  vois;  limit  is 
from  the  French  and  Latin  (limite,  and  limes) ;  and  echo  is  from 
the  Latin  and  Greek  (L.  echo,  and  Gr.  echo). 

The  passage  quoted  was  selected  at  random,  and  some  would 
have  yielded  a  richer  supply  of  words  of  French  and  classical 
origin  ;  but  this  serves  its  purpose  in  indicating  the  French, 
and  the  classical  (Latin  and  Greek)  influences  upon  our  tongue. 
One  other  point  there  is  to  note,  namely,  the  persistence  down 
to  the  present  day  of  the  old  Saxon  trick  of  alliteration.  It  is 
certainly  less  marked  here  than  in  many  passages  of  Tennyson, 
but  it  is  seen  in  such  a  line  as — 

"  bounds  as  if  some  fair  city  ..." 

The  first  thing  to  recognise  in  mediaeval  literature,  is  that 
it  falls  naturally  into  two  periods — 

(1)  THE  ANGLO-SAXON  PERIOD,  and  (2)  THE  MIDDLE  ENGLISH 
PERIOD.  The  first  period  (c.  670-c.  1050)  deals  with  the  legen- 
dary literature  of  an  ancient  Northern  people.  The  second 
(1050-1400)  with  the  experimental  literature  of  a  composite 
race. 

What  we  have  of  the  first  is  only  a  fragment,  but  for  five 
hundred  years  it  was  a  vital  force  in  the  lives  of  our  Teutonic 
forefathers.  And  while  the  British  were  living  under  the  easy 
surveillance  of  Rome,  English  literature  was  growing  up  in 
Scandinavia  and  Northern  Germany,  where  the  Angles  and 
Saxons  lived.  So  that  when  these  Northern  tribes  came  down 
upon  our  coasts,  and  after  stubborn  resistance  drove  back  the 
British  into  a  corner  of  Britain,  they  brought  with  them  a 
poetry  from  which  we  may  fairly  date  our  national  literature. 
This  poetry  is  expressed  in  a  language  derived  from  old"  German. 
The  British,  or  Celtic  inhabitants  were  not  exterminated ;  but 
persisted,  and  their  legends  (Welsh  and  Gaelic)  exerted  later  a 
powerful  influence  over  the  English.  Then  from  the  eleventh 
to  the  fourteenth  century  France  dominated  the  literature  of 
Europe,  and  England  like  other  nations  fell  under  her  sway. 
This  is  the  Middle  English  Period. 

The  Nature  of  Anglo-Saxon  Poetry. — Anglo-Saxon  poetry 
is  markedly  different  from  the  poetry  of  the  next  period,  for 
it  deals  with  the  traditions  of  an  older  world,  and  expresses 
another  temperament  and  way  of  living ;  it  breathes  the  in- 
fluence of  the  wind  and  storm-wrack.  It  is  the  poetry  of  a 
stern  and  passionate  people,  concerned  with  the  primal  things 


THE  MAKING  OF  THE  ENGLISH  SPEECH     13 

of  life,  moody,  melancholy,  and  fierce,  yet  with  great  capacity 
for  endurance  and  fidelity.  With  the  next  period,  a  more 
vivacious,  more  romantic *  element  passes  into  our  verse. 

THE  ANGLO-SAXON  PERIOD 

English  Poetry  before  the  Conquest  of  Britain.— The 

earliest  English  poero,  written  by  our  ancestors  while  on  the 
Continent,  is  Widsiih — The  Song  of  the  Traveller,  a  kind  of  travel 
journal,  where  the  vagrant  minstrel  tells  us  of  the  people  he 
has  visited  and  places  to  which  he  has  been.  Another  of  these 
poems,  Dear's  Complaint,  is  a  lyrical  cry  of  one  bard  about 
another  and  more  successful  rival.  This  poem  is  probably 
our  first  English  lyric. 

The  lyric,  however,  was  not  congenial  to  the  English  tempera- 
ment ;  the  epic,  or  narrative  poem  dealing  with  heroic  deeds, 
being  far  better  suited  to  his  muse.  Of  such,  Beowulf  is  the 
most  representative. 

Beowulf. — This  poem  of  over  3000  lines  has  for  its  background 
Scandinavian  scenery.  It  concerns  a  Scandinavian  thane  who 
comes  to  the  help  of  his  neighbour  Hrothgar,  and  Beowulf  tells 
us  of  his  exploits,  especially  of  his  desperate  fight  with  a  terrible 
dragon,  Grendel,  possibly  symbolic  of  the  sea,  to  whose  poison 
he  ultimately  succumbs,  not  however  before  killing  the  monster. 
The  historical  background  is  drawn  with  clear  actuality,  and  the 
character  of  Beowulf  is  pictured  for  us  vigorously  and  impres- 
sively. There  is  an  Homeric  greatness  about  the  atmosphere 
of  the  poem,  which  makes  it  of  real  value  to  us  in  understand- 
ing something  of  the  spirit  of  our  Teutonic  ancestors  ;  it  is 
certainly  one  of  the  most  important  monuments  of  Anglo-Saxon 
literature,  and  was  found  during  the  eighteenth  century  in 
a  MS.  written  in  Saxon  times.  Originally  it  was  Pagan  in 
tone,  with  the  stern  and  dignified  paganism  of  the  old  Sagas ; 
but  attempts  were  made  in  the  eighth  century  to  accommodate 
it  (with  ill  success)  to  the  faith  of  the  day.  The  ideal  of  life  it 
presents  is  a  primal  and  strenuous  one.  Of  the  sentiment  and 
tenderness  dear  to  the  later  French  romances  there  is  not  a 
trace.  It  deals  with  hard  fighting,  and  hearty  eating  and  drink- 
ing, tells  of  the  delight  of  music  after  the  toil  of  the  day  ;  of 

1  The  term  romance  originally  meant  a  tale  in  verse  written  in  a 
Romance  dialect — Latin.  It  was  concerned  with  wonderful  adventures, 
and  its  secondary  meaning  has  usurped  its  original  signification.  But 
the  tenour  of  the  Romance  differs  from  the  Epic,  also  concerned  with 
stirring  exploits,  in  its  emphatically  sentimental  character. 


14     A   HISTOEY   OF   ENGLISH   LITEBATUKE 

full-blooded  elemental  passion,  and  carries  that  undernoto  of 
fierce  regret  on  the  brevity  of  life  and  the  certainty  of  death, 
so  characteristic  of  Northern  poetry. 

But  its  interest  goes  beyond  this,  for  it  paints,  simply  and 
clearly,  the  social  customs  of  our  ancestors — how  they  lived  in 
peace  and  war  ;  what  their  town  and  country  places  looked  like ; 
of  their  attitude  towards  their  women  folk  ;  of  their  pleasures 
and  their  hardships. 

And  what  we  may  gather  about  our  ancestors  is  this : 
Anglo-Saxon  Life. — The  Anglo-Saxons  were  a  pastoral  people, 
living  on  the  fringe  of  the  Baltic  and  the  North  Sea,  in  a  country 
bleak  and  low-lying  ;  though  not  unfitted  to  cradle  a  brave  and 
hardy  race.  Tillers  of  the  soil,  and  hunters  by  compulsion,  they 
became  also  by  force  of  circumstance  fierce  sea-rovers.  Inured 
by  long  privation  to  the  terrors  of  the  sea,  they  made  little  of 
its  dangers,  and  a  Roman  writer  has  told  us,  how  that  they  would 

Elunder  the  western  coasts,  sailing  down  upon  them  in  their 
igh-prowed  warships  in  the  midst  of  a  storm  so  that  their 
victims  might  be  the  less  prepared.  Truly  enough  were  they 
likened  to  sea-wolves. 

In  appearance  they  were  big,  large-limbed  men,  with  blue-grey 
eyes  and  ruddy  of  face  ;  relentless,  savage  and  daring,  yet  cour- 
ageous and  faithful  to  one  another,  and  among  their  women  folk 
gentle  and  loyal.  Above  all,  law-abiding  according  to  their  lights, 
and  with  that  fierce  passion  for  independence  that  has  always 
marked  our  race.  The  freeman  had  his  house  with  its  long  hall, 
where  he  ate  and  slept  with  his  comrades,  on  the  straw-strewn 
floor.  The  women  kept  house,  spinning  and  weaving  garments 
for  the  men,  while  the  men  folk  roved  abroad.  Yet  they  also 
took  part  in  public  affairs  ;  shared  in  all  social  functions ;  held 
property,  and  in  the  open-air  assembly  or  moot,  helped  to  settle 
local  affairs.  In  social  life  among  the  Greeks,  as  described  by 
Homer,  we  have  a  very  similar  picture  of  the  way  of  living  ;  and 
as  with  the  Greeks,  so  among  the  Saxons,  was  there  a  Minstrel 
or  Glee-man  in  each  household,  who  sang  songs  at  the  close  of 
the  day — songs  of  ancient  tradition  mingled  with  verse  of  his 
own  making. 

English  Poetry  after  the  Conquest  of  Britain.— So  far, 
the  poetry,  though  written  in  the  English  language,  is  not  part 
of  the  literature  of  England.  The  first  native  English  maker 
of  verse  is  Csedmon. 

C.EDMON. — The  aged  herdsman,  Csedmon,  so  Bede  tells  us, 
put  into  verse  stories  from  the  Bible  in  the  lonely  monastery 
of  Hild  that  stood  on  the  rough  moorland  near  Whitby,  over- 


THE  MAKING  OF  THE   ENGLISH   SPEECH     15 

looking  the  German  Ocean.  And  his  verse-making  came  about 
on  this  wise. 

Leaving  the  feast  and  the  singers,  because  he  could  not  take 
part,  he  fell  asleep  among  the  cattle.  And  while  he  slept  he 
dreamed  that  one  came  to  him  and  commanded  him  to  sing. 
"  Of  what  am  I  to  sing  ?  "  said  Csedmon.  "  About  the  begin- 
ning of  created  things."  He  then  fashioned  a  song  about 
the  Creation,  and  awakened  from  his  dream.  The  song  he 
remembered,  and  made  many  more  like  it.  And  after  this  he 
became  a  monk. 

These  stories  in  verse — Ccedmon's  Paraphrase — were  written 
about  670,  and  became  very  famous.  Thus  did  the  old  paganism 
merge  into  the  Christian  sentiment  of  the  time.  Of  these 
poems  only  a  fragment  has  survived,  quoted  by  Bede  and 
carried  from  monastery  to  monastery.  But  the  influence  of 
Caedmon  upon  his  successors  was  great.  The  religious  note 
in  English  verse,  persisted  throughout  the  Middle  Ages,  died 
down  at  the  Renascence,  but  reappeared  again  in  Milton,  and 
continued  until  Victorian  times. 

CYNEWULF. — Cynewulf,  his  successor,  is  full  of  the  new  reli- 
gious ardour.  Writing  about  the  close  of  the  eighth  century, 
he  sings  of  "  the  clashing  of  the  sea  waves,"  and  "  the  rolling 
of  the  waters  "  and  of  "  foaming  billows  "  that  cover  the  earth  ; 
but  his  verse  has  nothing  of  the  old  pagan  wistfulness.  It  is 
alert  and  joyous. 

During  the  following  century  the  scattered  poems  of  the 
past  were  gathered  together  into  collections,  and  in  the  tenth 
century  religious  poetry  is  mingled  with  plentiful  war  songs, 
such  as  the  Song  of  Brunanburgh  (937),  where  the  conflict 
between  Saxon  and  Dane  figures  prominently. 

Characteristics  of  Anglo-Saxon  Poetry : — 

1.  It  resembles  Hebrew   poetry,  indulging  in   parallelism1 
and  metaphorical  phrases. 

2.  In  metre  it  is  marked  by  accent  and  persistent  alliteration. 

3.  Rhyme  is  absent,  and  there  are  no  definite  number  of 
syllables.     The  metre  undergoes  a  good  many  variations,  and 
responds  to  the  nature  of  the  subject. 

4.  The  poetry  was  sung,  for  in  early  times  poetry  and  music 
were  one  and  indivisible,  and  the  minstrel  was  free  to  modify 
the  movement  of  the  verse.     Any  modification  introduced  was, 

1  By  parallelism,  is  meant  the  repetition  of  the  same  statement  or  idea 
in  different  ways  ;  by  alliteration  the  repetition  of  the  same  letter  at  the 
beginning  or  in  the  body  of  different  words,  in  close  juxtaposition  to  one 
another. 


16     A  HISTORY  OF   ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

however,  subject  to  certain  rules.  There  were  always  four 
accented  syllables  and  three  alliterative  syllables.  Many 
changes  were  wrought  later  in  the  Middle  English  period 
through  French  influences,  but  the  trick  of  alliteration  has 
become  an  integral  part  of  all  English  poetry ;  and  though  no 
longer  a  structural  part  of  English  prosody,  is  regarded  to-day 
as  an  ornament,  not  an  essential.  It  has  been  used  with  most 
remarkable  effect  by  Swinburne. 

5.  There  is  a  prevalence  of  compound  words,  by  means  of 
whictfthe  poet  sought  to  condense  the  qualities  of  his  subject 
This  characteristic  also  has  survived. 

For  instance,  when  Rossetti  speaks  of  "  hoarse-tongued  fire," 
or  Keats  of  "leaden-eyed  despair,"  they  are  using  a  poetical 
method  derived  from  our  earliest  verse. 

6.  The  style  of  this  poetry  is,  on  the  whole,  diffuse,  though 
when  the  writer  is  greatly  moved  it  becomes  more  simple  arid 
direct.     And  while  there  is  force  and  vigour,  and  often  the 
austere  splendour  of  the  Icelandic  Saga  about  the  work,  there 
are  no  graces  or  subtleties,  arid  the  lyric  note  is  extremely  rare. 

The  form  of  poetry  chiefly  favoured  by  these  elder  writers  is 
the  epic ;  it  suited  both  their  manner  and  matter,  and  lent  itself 
to  the  treatment  of  heroic  deeds.  William  Morris's  translation 
of  the  Scandinavian  Sagas  will  give  the  modern  reader  a  fair  idea 
of  the  trend  and  character  of  this  ear]y  poetry. 

Anglo-Saxon  Prose. — The  prose,  unlike  the  poetry,  was  not 
used  as  an  emotional  stimulant.  It  was  in  the  main  educa- 
tional. 

BEDS  is  the  first  name  we  encounter  here.  Like  Csedmon  he 
was  a  Northumbrian,  with  a  passion  for  learning  only  equalled 
by  his  piety  and  fidelity  to  his  monastic  order.  He  studiec 
eagerly  every  department  of  human  thought — the  philosophies 
arts,  and  sciences :  and  to  his  Ecclesiastical  History  we  are  in- 
debted for  oar  knowledge  of  the  England  of  his  time.  He  wrote 
in  Latin  for  the  most  part,  but  was  quick  to  recognise  the 
possibilities  of  the  Saxon  tongue,  and  when  dying  is  said  to 
have  repeated  to  himself  some  of  these  old  poems. 

Northumbria  marked  the  centre  of  the  earlier  Saxon  litera- 
ture. With  the  coming  of  the  Danes  in  the  tenth  century 
the  seat  of  scholarship  and  study  passed  to  Wessex. 

ALFRED. — Alfred  is  the  next  influence  with  which  to  reckon 
He  is  a  real  founder  of  English  prose,  just  as  Credmon  is  the 
originator  of  its  poetry.  He  wrote  in  English,  not  in  Latin,  anc 
used  it  to  teach  history,  politics,  religion,  to  the  people.  During 
his  reign  the  A  nglo-Saxon  Chronicle  came  into  existence ;  and  i: 


THE  MAKING  OF  THE  ENGLISH  SPEECH     17 

not  his  own  work,  it  probably  owed  much  to  his  inspiration. 
This  is  the  most  important  landmark  of  Anglo-Saxon  prose,  and 
continued  beyond  the  Conquest  down  to  the  death  of  Stephen. 

EDGAR  AND  ELFRIC. — Under  Edgar  and  Elfric  prose  literature 
continued  to  flourish,  and  to  become  stronger  and  more 
varied  in  expression. 

But  the  Danish  invasions  made  great  inroads  upon  the  pro- 
gress of  literature  during  later  Saxon  times,  though  it  was  far 
too  vital  a  thing  now  to  be  suppressed. 

Characteristics. — At  its  best,  as  in  the  fighting  episodes  of 
the  Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle,  Old  English  prose  is  clear  and  forcible, 
and  occasionally,  in  the  hands  of  Elfric,  rhythmic  and  musical. 
But  it  is  well  to  remember  that  its  chief  aim  was  that  of  instruc- 
tion, and  for  the  most  part  religious  in  nature,  concerning  itself 
with  the  stories  of  the  Bible  and  the  lives  of  the  Saints. 

THE  MIDDLE  ENGLISH  PERIOD  :  POETRY  AND  PROSE 

Latin  was  the  language  in  which  the  cultured  man  of  Norman 
times  wrote,  and  French  was  the  language  spoken  in  polite 
society.  The  Saxon  tongue  languished,  and  there  is  little  doubt 
that  the  Norman  Conquest  did  for  a  time  militate  against  the 
development  of  our  literature.  Many  Saxons  wrote  in  French, 
and,  with  the  exception  of  the  Saxon  Chronicle,  which  went  on 
until  1154,  the  bulk  of  the  prose  was  written  in  Latin.  English 
prose  after  the  CJironicle  practically  slumbered  until  its  remark- 
able awakening  in  the  sixteenth  century. 

Yet,  after  all,  the  Norman  Conquest  was  not  the  conquest  of 
England  by  an  alien  race.  The  Normans  were  originally  North- 
men like  the  Anglo-Saxons  and  Danes,  even  though  southern 
influences  had  greatly  modified  their  character  and  outlook.  And 
this  affinity  was  ultimately  felt  by  both  Saxon  and  Norman. 
Consequently  there  was  a  real  fusion  between  the  two  races. 
On  the  Saxon  side  we  accepted  the  traditions  of  France  in 
matters  poetical.  On  the  Norman  side  we  finally  chose  the 
Saxon  tongue  in  place  of  the  French  in  which  to  express  our- 
selves. 

Middle  English  Poetry. — The  old  Saxon  verse,  with  its  sober 
dignity  and  strong  religious  bias,  abruptly  ceases  after  the  Con- 
quest. But  this  is  less  the  result  of  the  Conquest  than  the 
effect  of  the  dominance  of  French  poetry  throughout  Europe. 
The  old  alliterative  verse  indeed  had  declined  before  the  Con- 
quest, becoming  a  negligible  quality  until  the  fourteenth  cen- 
tury, when  there  is  a  most  extraordinary  revival,  the  Morte 

B 


18     A   HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

d?  Arthur  and  Piers  Plowman  being  two  of  the  most  famous 
examples.  In  the  twelfth  century  even  the  Scandinavian  peoples 
took  from  the  French  their  ballads  and  rhymings.  The  success- 
ful fight  with  the  French  in  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries 
helped  to  consolidate  both  the  English  people  and  their  litera- 
ture. And  in  the  reign  of  Edward  I,  English  poetry  once  again 
became  a  force.  It  has,  however,  changed  in  character. 

Let  us  examine  the  new  medium  of  expression.  On  the  one 
side  it  retains  an  elder  characteristic,  the  religious  note  ;  on  the 
other  side  it  presents  a  new  phase,  the  romantic  note,  derived 
from  France. 

(a)  The  Religious  Note. — The  scholastic  activities  of  the  twelfth 
and  thirteenth  centuries  favoured  the  continuance  of  religious 
verse.  Those  ripe  scholars,  Lanf  ranc  and  Anselm,  were  the  early 
inspirers,  and  later  on  the  missionary  monks  sent  by  Bernard  of 
Clairvaux  further  stimulated  devotional  verse. 

Orm's  Ormulum  (c.  1215), a  metrical  version  of  the  Gospels  with 
some  hortatory  matter  added,  is  the  first  of  any  importance. 
The  sources  of  this  book  are  the  old  Saxon  writers,  Elfric  and 
Bede.  Following  this  come  Lives  of  the  Saints  in  verse  ;  English 
Saints  being  given  special  prominence — e.g.  St.  Cuthbert,  St. 
Dunstan,  St.  Swithin,  St.  Wulfstan.  In  addition  to  the  verse 
there  are  pious  treatises  in  prose  ;  one,  for  instance,  the  A  ncren 
Riwle,  or  rule  for  recluse  women  (Anchoresses),  which  belongs 
to  the  thirteenth  century.  This  is  an  ascetic  manual  for  young 
women  who  wish  to  dedicate  themselves  to  God.  The  author, 
Bishop  Poor  of  Salisbury,  preaches  the  gospel  of  self-abnegation, 
yet  in  a  conciliatory  and  gracious  manner.  But  he  will  have 
no  paltering  with  worldly  things.  Domestic  pets  must  be 
restricted  to  one  cat,  and  the  young  women  must  refrain  even 
from  glancing  out  of  the  parlour  windows. 

The  teaching  of  religious  doctrine  by  means  of  verse  and  prose 
proceeded  with  great  vigour  under  the  Mendicant  Friars  ;  and 
it  was  necessary  to  give  it  in  a  palatable  story  form  in  order  to 
interest  the  people.  A  notable  book  of  this  kind  is  the  Cursor 
Mundi,  written  about  132  ">,  which  treats  in  poetical  form  of  the 
historical  portions  of  the  Bible,  with  a  number  of  legends  about 
Saints  in  addition.  Like  the  early  Mysteries  and  Miracle  Play 
it  was  a  means  of  popularising,  clearly  and  vividly,  sacred  story 

In  all  this  work  there  is  abundance  of  French  words,  and  prac 
tically  no  alliteration.  The  language  is  in  a  transitional  stag 

The  greatest  religious  poem  of  the  time,  The  Book  of  Piers  th 
Plowman,  must  be  given  more  detailed  consideration. 

WILLIAM    LANGLAND    and    his    Book.  —  Probably    of    lo 


THE  MAKING   OF   THE  ENGLISH  SPEECH     19 

extraction,  Langland  was  from  his  earliest  years  familiar  with 
the  poor  folk  both  of  the  city  and  of  the  country. 

His  mental  alertness  had  interested  others  in  him,  and  of 
patrons  he  had  not  a  few.  But  after  a  while  these  died,  leaving 
him  to  look  out  for  himself.  We  find  him  living  in  Cornhill, 
poor  and  unhappy,  with  his  wife  Catherine  and  daughter  Nico- 
lette.  Too  old  to  form  fresh  friendships — he  had  never  been  a 
companionable  man — he  strides  the  streets  with  bitterness  in 
his  heart. 

True,  he  had  one  solace — his  book — and  one  feels  that  into  it 
was  poured  his  life-blood  ;  all  his  hopes  and  despairs,  his  sorrows 
and  aspirations,  his  anger  and  his  compassion  went  into  these 
Visions. 

Like  another  famous  writer  of  allegory,  he  fell  asleep,  and  in 
a  "  field  f  ul  of  f  olkes  "  he  saw  the  men  and  women  of  his  dream 
— knights,  monks,  preachers,  peasants,  cooks  that  cry  out  "  Hote 
pyes  hote,"  and  "  mystrelles  "  that  sell  "  glee."  And  the  object 
of  their  journey,  like  that  of  the  more  famous  journey  from  the 
City  of  Destruction,  was  the  search  for  Truth  and  Good. 

He  reproaches — 

"  Bochiers  and  cokes  * 
For  these  are  men  on  this  molde 
That  most  harm  wercheth  2  » 

To  the  pooere  people 
That  percelmale  briggen  3 
For  they  empoisone  the  people 
Priveliche  and  ofte."  4 

Also  he  condemns  the  rich  people  for  "  regrating  " — that  was 
the  custom  of  buying  up  provisions  and  retailing  them  to  the 
poor  at  great  profit. 

In  his  ethical  earnestness  and  sombre  outlook  he  had  a  fore- 
runner in  Richard  Rolle,  a  Yorkshire  hermit  and  mystic,  who 
wrote  in  the  Saxon  tongue,  both  verse  and  prose,  to  benefit 
the  common  people. 

Langland,  though  the  spokesman  for  the  labouring  classes, 
favoured  the  old  class  divisions  and  reviled  the  insurgents  of 
1381  ;  in  these  matters  he  is  reactionary.  He  wants  reform, 
but  within  the  Church.  He  is  less  drastic  in  his  proposals  for 
clerical  reform  than  Wyclif. 

For  instance,  the  knaves  who  traffic  in  "  pardons  " ;  the  friars 
who  make  a  pretence  of  religion ;  knights  to  whom  fighting 

1  Butchers  and  cooks.  3  Piecemeal  bring. 

2  Worketh.  4  Privately  and  often. 


20     A   HISTOKY   OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

was  merely  an  excuse  to  express  their  lust  for  blood  ;  the  count- 
less men  and  women,  both  in  town  and  country,  whose  lives 
were  dominated  by  no  great  principle  or  ideal — all  these  he 
lashed;  the  rottenness,  which  was  breaking  up  all  the  real 
strength  and  greatness  of  the  Middle  Ages,  Langland  saw  with 
marvellous  clearness.  Where  can  truth  be  found  ?  This  is  his 
cry.  And  so  the  messengers — Reason,  Repentance,  and  Hope 
— help  in  the  search  for  truth,  guided  by  Piers  himself.  Piers 
insists  upon  manual  labour  as  the  first  essential,  and  extols 
this  with  the  enthusiasm  of  a  Thoreau. 

The  World  is  at  hand  to  wheedle  and  bribe  the  honest  worker ; 
the  World  in  the  person  of  Lady  Meed,  attractive  but  heart- 
less, whose  name  itself  savours  of  bribery. 

Especially  vivid  is  the  picture  of  the  revellers  in  the  City 
Tavern.  Here  we  have  quarrels  or  discussions,  and  heavy  drink- 
ing, and  the  noisy  ritual  of  mirth  for  which  taverns  in  every 
age  are  renowned  ;  the  hermit,  the  cobbler,  the  clerk  of  the 
Church,  the  hangman,  and  the  harlot  met  together. 

The  scene  shirts  constantly  and  unexpectedly  from  town  to 
country — from  London  to  Malvern  ;  vigorous  and  pungent 
homilies  break  in  upon  vthe  action  of  the  story,  and  the  upshot 
of  all  is  that  the  poet  bids  us  "  lerne  to  love  "  as  the  one  cure 
for  the  ills  of  life. 

With  Langland,  the  special  characteristic  of  the  old  Saxon 
verse,  alliteration,  long  neglected,  is  used  once  more.  The  verse 
is  rough  and  uncouth,  but  is  passionately  sincere. 

The  Visions  were  very  popular,  and  soon  became  the  spoken 
symbol  of  the  suffering  poor.  JOHN  BALL  invokes  his  authority, 
and  even  so  late  as  the  Reformation,  the  name  of  Piers  is  in 
use.  He  stands  for  the  "  ideal "  working  man. 

Along  with  Langland  we  associate  naturally  WYCLIF,  for  there 
was  the  stuff  of  the  religious  and  social  reformer  in  each,  though 
Wyclif's  outlook  was  the  wider  and  clearer.  A  hard-headed 
and  keen-witted  Yorkshireman  with  a  vigorous  spirit  of  inde- 
pendence, he  soon  took  part  in  the  ecclesiastical  disputes  of 
the  age.  Championing  the  cause  of  the  common  people,  he  set 
the  authority  of  the  Bible  against  the  authority  of  the  Church  ; 
and  in  order  to  familiarise  the  people  with  the  Bible  he  started 
with  others,  the  translation  of  the  Bible  into  the  Saxon  ver- 
nacular, reinforcing  its  teaching  with  sermons  and  tracts  ol 
his  own,  written  in  simple  and  homely  speech.  His  importance 
in  the  history  of  English  prose  is  rather  as  the  chief  translator 
of  the  Bible  than  as  an  independent  writer,  for  in  the  latter 
capacity  his  work  is  often  too  heavily  burdened  with  Latinizec 


THE   MAKING   OF   THE   ENGLISH   SPEECH     21 

terminology.  English  prose  lagged  far  behind  poetry  in  its 
vital  development ;  for  until  the  fifteenth  century  it  was  used 
but  very  rarely  except  for  educational  purposes. 

(b)  The  Romantic  Note. — In  religious  poetry  we  were  carrying 
on,  if  in  a  somewhat  altered  fashion,  the  traditions  of  Saxon 
literature.  But  romance  is  a  new  departure  altogether ;  it  was 
something  alien  to  the  Saxon  genius. 

The  elements  of  sentiment  and  gaiety  are  brought  for  the 
first  time  into  English  literature.  Dignity,  passion,  force — 
these  things  are  indigenous  to  Saxon  poetry ;  to  them  is  added 
the  graceful  sentiment,  the  light  and  shade,  the  volubility  of 
Norman  verse. 

Roughly  speaking,  it  is  possible  to  differentiate  this  romantic 
poetry  into  "  courtly "  and  "  popular  " ;  meaning  by  courtly 
the  poetry  that  grew  up  around  the  Court,  and  expressed  itself 
in  a  chivalric  ideal — e.g.  the  Arthurian  tales  :  and  by  popular, 
the  poetry  that  centred  round  familiar  country  festivals,  such 
as  the  May  games — e.g.  the  Ballad.  The  courtly  poetry  scarcely 
emerges  into  great  distinctiveness,  however,  until  the  time  of 
Chaucer ;  though  there  is  a  constant  striving  in  that  direction 
during  the  two  preceding  centuries. 

French  poetry  had  in  it  these  two  elements — the  courtly  and 
the  popular,  and  they  quickly  attached  themselves  to  our 
national  standards  of  thought.  It  is  not  always  possible, 
however,  to  distinguish  the  two,  for  there  is  that  famous 
duologue  in  verse — The  Owl  and  the  Nightingale — by  Nicholas 
de  Guildford,  in  which  the  courtly  and  popular  elements  are 
inextricably  blended. 

Now,  in  the  French  Romantic  poetry,  which  came  over  here 
and  so  profoundly  influenced  our  literature,  there  were  three 
important  story-cycles  :  the  matter  of  Rome,  the  matter  of 
France,  and  the  matter  of  Britain. 

The  first  includes  the  story  of  Troy,  and  the  adventures  of 
Alexander  of  Macedon.  The  Trojan  story  inspired  Virgil,  and 
was  popular  in  France  during  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  cen- 
turies. More  than  one  nation  fancied  descent  from  Pius  ^Eneas, 
in  an  age  when  to  have  descended  from  some  fabulous  person 
was  looked  upon  as  a  guarantee  of  national  respectability. 
The  Greeks  themselves  claimed  Trojan  origin,  and  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth  in  his  History  of  the  Britons  described  with  gusto 
and  particularity  their  descent  from  Brutus,  great-grandson  of 
^Eneas. 

The  first  notable  English  Poem  after  the  Conquest.— 
Curiously  enough  this  tale,  which  greatly  took  the  popular 


22     A  HISTORY   OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

fancy,  was  translated  into  French,  and  re-translated  later  on 
by  the  priest  Layamon  under  the  title  of  Le  Brut  (1205).  A 
striking  feature  about  Layamon's  work  is  the  introduction  of 
rhyme  into  English  verse  in  parts  of  his  work,  and  the  use  of 
similes. 

The  adventures  of  Alexander  had  found  an  earlier  ingress, 
but  there  are  very  few  English  poems  dealing  with  it,  though 
Chaucer  says  that  everyone  had  heard  of  Alexander's  for- 
tunes. 

The  matter  of  France  is  more  important  as  a  literary  influ- 
ence. It  dealt  with  Charlemagne,  and  started  in  France  with 
the  Story  of  Roland.  The  groundwork  of  this  cycle  is  historical, 
and  the  struggles  depicted  between  the  feudal  nobles  and  their 
over-lord  are  based  on  fact  ;  though  such  a  hero  as  Huon  de 
Bordeaux  is  a  figment  of  the  imagination. 

This  cycle  was  wonderfully  popular  in  mediaeval  times,  and 
greatly  influenced  European  literature — for  example,  the 
stories  of  Ariosto.  In  our  own  time  William  Morris  drew  upon 
its  romantic  treasures. 

This  cycle  reached  its  height  of  development  in  the  eleventh 
century.  It  appealed  to  the  Southern  nations  more  than  to 
us,  because  it  was  concerned  so  particularly  with  the  struggle 
of  Christendom  and  Mohammedanism. 

The  matter  of  Britain  is,  for  Englishmen  at  any  rate,  by  far 
the  most  important  of  these  cycles. 

What  was  it  ? 

It  was  a  cycle  of  stories,  of  French  origin,  written  partly  in 
prose,  partly  in  verse,  dealing  with  the  old  Celtic  legend  of 
King  Arthur.  We  are  so  accustomed  to  regard  Arthur  as  a 
national  hero,  that  we  do  not  realise  readily  how  largely  the 
literature  around  him  is  in  a  foreign  tongue.  For  the  height 
of  its  popularity  in  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries  was 
the  height  also  of  French  influence  And  it  was  in  the  form, 
of  a  French  Romance  that  the  stories  became  known  in 
England. 

It  is  somewhat  curious  that  we  should  have  adopted  as  our 
national  hero  the  chief  of  the  defeated  Britons  rather  than  a 
Saxon  leader.  But  such  is  the  fact ;  other  epic  heroes  we 
passed  aside,  and  took  to  our  hearts  the  Celtic  conqueror  of  the 
"Demon  Cat." 

We  do  not  know  what  precisely  was  the  character  of  the 
original  Welsh  legend,  but  we  do  know  that  it  was  mainly  con- 
cerned with  fighting,  and  that  the  Launcelot  story  and  the 
legend  of  the  Grail,  together  with  other  tales  of  King  Arthur's 


THE   MAKING   OF   THE   ENGLISH   SPEECH     23 

knights,  were  after-thoughts — French  embroideries  on  to  the 
original  theme. 

Sir  Thomas  Malory  later  on  blended  the  Arthurian  literature 
— prose  and  verse — into  one  prose  version. 
.  So  much  for  the  chief  romantic  matter  of  the  Middle  Ages. 
Other  romantic  poems  of  interest  to  the  student  of  English 
literature  are  those  around  Sir  Gawain — one  of  King  Arthur's 
knights,  Pearl — in  which  the  romantic  and  religious  notes 
merge  into  an  elegy  of  grief  for  a  personal  loss ;  and  English 
versions  of  Norman  romances,  such  as  Havelok  the  Dane,  Guy  of 
Warwick,  Bevis  of  Hampton. 

These,  like  Welsh  Geoffrey's  Brut,  were  English  or  Danish  in 
origin,  and  had  travelled  back  again  to  England  via  France. 

Ballad  Poetry. — Most  compelling  in  its  interest  is  the  rich 
store  of  ballad  poetry,  wild  flowers  of  English  verse,  that  had 
grown  up  during  the  Middle  Ages,  and  were,  in  the  fifteenth 
century,  snatched  from  the  country-side  and  garnered  in  at  the 
bookshops  of  Westminster. 

The  charm  of  the  ballad  lies  in  its  naive  simplicity  and  primi- 
tive feeling.  To  call  it  artless,  as  some  do,  is  a  mistake,  for  it 
has  its  own,  rules  of  diction,  its  tricks  of  phrasing,  and  conven- 
tional refrains.  But  it  has  the  ease  and  sincerity  of  genuine 
poetry,  and  is  deep-rooted  in  its  love  of  Earth  and  primal  human 
qualities.  Such  a  line  as  this  would  have  thrilled  Scott  : 

"  And  the  birk  and  the  broom  blooms  bonnie  " — 

And  there  is  the  poignancy  of  Burns  in  the  cry  of  Margaret  to 
her  dead  lover  in  Clerk  Saunders : 

"  Is  there  ony  room  at  your  head,  Saunders? 

Is  there  ony  room  at  your  feet  ? 
Is  there  ony  room  at  your  side,  Saunders  ? 
Where  fain,  fain  I  wad  sleep." 

Homely  pathos,  old  time  magic,  a  fierce  love  of  independence,, 
and  a  brooding  sense  of  tragedy — these  are  the  things  that 
meet  us  in  such  pieces  as  The  Nut-Brown  Maid,  Chevy  Chace, 
The  Bonny  Earl  of  Murray  ;  while  the  love  of  outdoor  life  and 
the  changing  seasons  meet  us  in  the  Robin  Hood  ballads,  and 
such  lyrics  as  the  well-known  "  Sumer  is  icumen  in,  Lhude  sing 
cuccu." 

The  term  ballad  is  used  to  cover  a  wide  variety  of  verse, 
but  the  word  originally  signified  a  dance-song ; *•  and  many 
ballads  eloquent  of  love,  youth,  and  the  springtide  were  sung 
1  From  ballare,  to  dance. 


24     A   HISTOEY   OF  ENGLISH   LITEEATUEE 

by  the  villagers  at  their  feasting  times  to  a  rhythmic 
measure. 

What  we  have  are  the  product  of  Saxon  intensity  of  feeling, 
softened  and  lightened  by  Norman  sentiment  and  grace  ;  though 
the  ballad  measure  is  of  ancient  origin,  and  probably  dates 
from  early  mediaeval  times. 

Early  History  and  Philosophy. — If  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth 
is  the  popular  historian  of  the  age,  William  of  Malmesbury  is 
the  scholarly  one.  His  account  of  the  kings  of  England  is 
marked  by  scrupulous  care  in  dealing  with  ascertained  facts, 
eschewing  fantastic  legends.  Glanville  and  Bracton  contribute 
to  the  making  of  constitutional  law ;  the  former  from  the 
practical,  the  latter  from  the  theoretical  standpoint.  Eoger 
Bacon,  a  Franciscan  Friar,  is  one  of  the  earliest  scientists,  and 
in  a  frankly  unscientific  and  credulous  age  is  noted  for  the 
insistence  he  laid  upon  the  supreme  value  of  experiment. 

Gower  and  Chaucer. — Contemporary  literary  judgments  are 
seldom  of  value.  Ben  Jonson  was  rated  by  his  age  above 
Shakespeare,  and  his  own  generation  failed  to  appreciate 
Milton.  So  we  need  not  be  surprised  to  find  Chaucer's  friend, 
John  Gower,  placed  on  a  higher  pedestal  than  the  author  of 
The  Canterbury  Tales. 

Later  judgments  have  perhaps  unduly  depreciated  Gower.  He 
was  a  writer  of  much  talent,  and  his  important  poem,  the  Con- 
fessio  Amantis  (c.  1393),  by  its  sweeping  and  varied  collection  of 
mediaeval  tales,  certainly  prepared  the  way  for  Chaucer.  It  is 
very  useful  pioneer  work.  His  inferiority  to  Chaucer  is  shown 
in  the  uncertain  way  in  which  he  uses  the  vernacular,  still  pre- 
ferring on  the  whole  the  "  polite  "  tongue  of  the  day — French. 

Chaucer. — TJie  Man  and  his  Career. — Geoffrey  Chaucer,  born 
of  the  merchant  class,  spent  his  early  life  in  London,  by  the 
Walbrook  stream  ;  and  at  seventeen  he  was  appointed  page  to 
the  wife  of  Lionel,  son  of  Edward  III.  In  this  way  he  gained 
acquaintance  with  Court  life  and  manners.  After  a  military 
expedition  to  France  in  1359,  which  led  to  his  capture  by  the 
French  and  subsequent  ransom  for  sixteen  pounds  by  Edward, 
he  became  first  a  personal  attendant  of  the  King ;  later  on  a 
squire.  He  saturated  himself  in  the  French  Eomances — notably 
the  Roman  de  la  Rose — and  promptlyand  naturally  imitated  them. 
In  1370  Chaucer  travelled  abroad  in  the  King's  service,  to 
Flanders,  France  and  Italy — to  the  Italy  of  Giotto,  Petrarch, 
and  Boccaccio ;  in  short,  to  the  world  of  the  early  Renascence. 
Need  we  be  surprised  that  the  sojourn  in  Italy  profoundly  im- 
pressed the  imagination  of  the  English  poet.  Hitherto  he  had 


THE  MAKING   OF   THE  ENGLISH   SPEECH     25 

been  ignorant  of  Italian  literature ;  now  he  reads  the  great 
writers,  and  the  glamour  of  the  Roman  de  la  Rose  fades 
away. 

Not  one  but  many  are  the  visits  paid  to  Italy,  and  in  the  mean- 
time we  find  Chaucer  fulfilling  the  prosaic  duties  of  Comptroller 
of  Customs  at  Aldgate  ;  living  much  as  Hawthorne  lived  his 
consular  life  at  Liverpool,  a  business  and  practical  man  on  one 
side,  and  a  dreamer  of  dreams  on  the  other.  It  is  at  this  time 
that  he  wrote  The  Parliament  of  Foules  (1382),  the  translation 
of  Boethius,  Troilus  and  Criseyde(l382),  The  House  of  Fame  (1384), 
and  The  Legend  of  Good  Women  (1385).  And  over  them  all  is  the 
magic  of  the  South.  But  the  Italian,  like  the  French  inspiration, 
begins  to  die  away.  The  rich  concrete  qualities  of  the  man  begin 
to  clamour  for  a  more  temperamental  utterance,  and  during  the 
closing  years  of  the  fourteenth  century  he  gives  us  The  Canterbury 
Tales.  It  is  possible  that  Boccaccio's  Decameron  may  have  sug- 
gested the  framework  of  the  poem — the  succession  of  story- 
tellers. But  for  the  subject-matter  the  poet  has  gone  directly 
to  the  life  of  his  own  day. 

The  Form  of  the  Canterbury  Tales. — Of  this  work  about  17,000 
lines  are  in  verse,  while  two  stories — the  tale  of  Melibeus  and 
the  Parson's  tale — are  in  prose.  The  verse  consists  of  rhymed 
couplets.  It  forms  a  compromise  between  the  old  and  new  pro- 
sody. Chaucer  does  not  care  for  alliteration  or  doggerel  rhyme, 
and  chooses  the  form  of  "  heroic  "  verse,  with  rhymed  couplets 
and  five  accented  syllables. 

The  tales  themselves  are  of  astonishing  variety.  Some  are 
drawn  from  the  romances  of  chivalry — e.g.  The  Knight's  Tale. 
Others  deal  with  moralising  scriptural  stories — e.g.  The  MonKs 
Tale.  Some  are  fine  adaptations  of  romantic  stories  of  ancient 
France.  There  are,  between  the  stories,  prologues,  where 
Chaucer's  gift  of  sharp  and  vivid  characterisation  is  best  seen — 
i.g.  the  Discourse  of  the  Wife  of  Bath. 

The  Characterisation. — And  when  the  prevailing  tendency  of 
he  age  to  deal  in  allegory  and  abstractions  is  taken  into 
onsideration,  it  is  astounding  how  alive  these  Chaucerian 
ypes  are. 

For  in  the  course  of  his  life  he  had  come  into  contact  with 
hem  all.  The  Knight,  the  Squire,  the  Merchant,  the  Sailor, 
Scholar,  Doctor,  Monk,  Labourers,  Saints  and  Knaves — he 
mew  then  intimately  and  drew  them  from  personal  observa- 
;ion.  He  knew  the  Court  folk  ;  he  knew  the  People  ;  and  he 
iraws  them  for  us  with  all  their  little  tricks  and  mannerisms 
nd  external  peculiarities.  We  recognise  one  by  the  raucous 


26     A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

tone  of  the  voice,  another  by  his  rubicund  face,  another  for 
her  sensitiveness :  she  was  so  "  pitous "  she  wept  to  see  a 
mouse  caught.  We  see  the  parchment  face  of  the  Knave,  the 
jolly  rubicund  countenance  of  mine  Host, — we  become  ac- 
quainted in  a  word  with  the  mediaeval  Englishman  as  he 
moved  and  lived,  depicted  with  a  breadth  of  vision  and  a  rich 
tolerant  humour  unsurpassed  in  our  literature.  The  poignant 
note  that  we  find  in  Langland  is  absent,  for  Chaucer  takes 
rather  the  comedy  view  of  life  ;  but  this  must  not  be  held  tc 
imply  any  lack  of  sympathy  with  the  poor  and  suffering, 
There  is  a  large-hearted  charity  in  his  treatment  of  the  labour- 
ing class,  as  his  picture  of  the  Ploughman  will  testify. 

And  there  is  an  open-air  atmosphere  about  it  all.  His  people 
are  always  on  the  move.  Never  do  they  become  shadowy  01 
lifeless.  They  shout  and  swear,  and  laugh  and  weep,  interrupt 
the  story-teller,  pass  compliments,  and  in  general  behave  them- 
selves as  we  might  expect  them  to  in  the  dramatic  circumstances 
of  the  narrative.  And  it  is  never  possible  to  confuse  the 
story-teller  ;  each  is  distinct  and  inimitable,  whether  it  be  the 
sermonising  Pardoner,  the  hot-tempered  Milleij  or  the  exuber- 
antly vivacious  Wife  of  Bath,  who  has  had  five  husbands,  but 
experience  teaching  her  that  husbands  are  transient  blessings, 
she  has  fixed  her  mind  on  a  sixth  ! 

There  are  tragedies  as  well  as  comedies  in  the  Tales  ;  some 
are  grave  and  subdued,  others  ablaze  with  colour  and  merri- 
ment. But  the  thread  of  honest  and  kindly  laughter  rum 
through  them  all,  serious  and  gay  alike. 

There  is  nothing  of  the  dreamer  about  Chaucer — nothing  oi 
the  stern  moralist  and  social  reformer.  Like  Shakespeare,  he 
makes  it  his  business  in  The  Canterbury  Tales  to  paint  life  as  he 
sees  it,  and  leaves  others  to  draw  the  moral. 

Langland' s  mordant  pictures  of  contemporary  life  gave  an 
actuality  to  poetical  literature  which  removed  it  far  from  the 
old  heroic  stories  with  which  the  name  of  poet  hitherto  had 
been  connected.  And  Chaucer  realised  what  those  whc 
followed  him  for  many  years  to  come  were  too  blind  to  see- 
that  the  genius  of  the  English  people  did  not  lie  in  high-flowr 
tales  of  sentiment,  but  in  homely  stories  of  everyday  life 
illumined  by  shrewd  observation  and  tolerant  humour,  am 
occasional  moralising. 

And  the  crowning  glory  of  The  Canterbury  Tales  lies  in  the 
fact  that  in  this  masterpiece  he  uses  "  naked  words  in  English  " 
He  has  made  the  new  language  throb  with  life,  and  put  th 
corner-stone  on  the  edifice  of  English  Mediaeval  Literature. 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  27 

II 

THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  (1400-1660) 

[N  Italy  and  Germany  a  stirring  of  fresh  life,  a  kindling  of 
Dew  desires,  a  spiritual  expansion  of  human  experience,  were 
already  potent  influences.  We  call  this  wider  outlook  the 
Renascence,  though  each  nation  expressed  it  in  its  own  way.  In 
Italy  it  speaks  through  the  senses ;  in  Germany  it  becomes  a 
noral  message.  The  literary  student  may  judge  of  the  distinc- 
tive atmosphere  of  the  two  countries  by  reading  the  Fra  Lippo 
Lippi  and  Johannes  Agricola  of  Robert  Browning.  In  England 
;he  spirit  of  the  Renascence  is  more  slowly  felt,  and  not  until 
;he  close  of  the  fifteenth  century  can  we  find  much  sign  of  its 
nfluence. 

While  it  is  impossible  to  reduce  this  Renascence  spirit  to  a 
ut  and  dried  formula,  it  is  possible  to  distinguish  in  it  two 
lading  inspirations.  The  one,  the  intellectual  impulse  result- 
ig  from  the  study  of  the  classics.  The  other,  the  imaginative 
mpulse  given  to  men's  minds  by  the  geographical  discoveries, 
t  was  the  spiritual  fusion  between  the  old  and  the  new  world 
lat  gave  birth  to  the  Renascence — the  old  world  of  Greece 
nd  Rome>  and  the  new  world  across  the  wide  seas. 
The  Renascence  in  England  is  felt  first  of  all  then  in  educa- 
.onal  centres,  such  as  the  Universities  of  Oxford  and  Cam- 
ridge  ;  and  its  earlier  exponents  are  earnest  and  strenuous 
cholars  like  Roger  Ascham,  Sir  John  Cheke,  Nicholas  Udall : 
len  who  regarded  sober  citizenship  and  moral  worth  as  being 
f  more  account  than  graces  of  style  and  beauty  of  expression. 
Jut  gradually,  as  the  reading  of  ancient  literature  awoke  a 
een  appreciation  of  the  melody  of  language,  and  the  adven- 
tirous  spirit  of  the  time  warmed  the  imagination  of  English- 
ten,  we  have  the  pulsing  of  a  fresher  and  more  vigorous  life 
our  poetry  and  prose. 

Meanwhile  there  is  a  transitional  period  in  our  literature, 
hich  is  chiefly  of  significance  to  the  student,  as  showing  how 
ie  seeds  were  sown  for  the  rich  flowering  time  of  the  Eliza- 
ithan  Age. 

Chaucer's  impecunious  friend,  Thomas  Hoccleve,  and  John 
ydgate,  a  monk  at  Bury,  give  us  some  vivid  pictures  of  London 
'e  in  their  writings  ;  and  the  uncouth  figure  of  the  Norfolk 
eric,  John  Skelton,  stands  out  as  a  doggerel  writer  of  rude 
>wer,  who  helped  to  pave  the  way  for  the  new  poetry.  But 


28     A   HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

the  freshest  and  most  individual  verse  of  the  time  comes  from 
Scotland,  where  the  national  spirit  had  recently  been  kindled 
in  an  ardent  flame  by  the  hardly-acquired  independence  at 
Bannockburn. 

Scottish  Nature  Poets. — John  Barbour  sings  of  Freedom, 
with  all  the  passionate  conviction  of  Shelley.  James  the  First, 
a  diligent  student  of  Chaucer,  has  in  the  Kingis  Quhair1  given 
us  in  Chaucerian  stanza  work  instinct  with  a  genuine  love  of 
Nature,  and  a  meditative  charm  not  to  be  found  in  any  of  his 
contemporaries.  After  him  the  schoolmaster,  Robert  Henryson, 
may  be  remembered  also  for  his  description  of  Nature  and 
vigorous  morality.  One  of  his  best  poems  is  quaintly  entitled 
Garment  of  Good  Ladies.  Most  remarkable  of  all  are  William 
Dunbar  and  Gavin  Douglas.  Douglas  excelled  in  his  description 
of  Scottish  scenery,  Dunbar  in  his  rough  but  genuine  humour. 

Turning  from  poetry  to  prose,  there  is  nothing  to  note  of 
first-class  importance  until  we  come  to  the  work  of  CAXTON  and 
SIR  THOMAS  MALORY'S  Morte  d' Arthur.     This  book  is  of  specia 
significance.     Not  only  did  it  give  unity  and  artistic  form  t< 
the  various  and  scattered  legends  of  Arthurian  Romance,  bu 
it  introduced  these  stories  to  thousands  who  would  never  havt 
come  across  them.     Written  in  a  prose  style  of  simple  rhythmi 
charm,  it  is  a  veritable  delight  to  all  lovers  of  Romance ;  an< 
its  persuasive  magic  has  inspired  some  of  the  finest  poets  o 
our  time. 

From  The  Paston  Letters  (1422-1509),  the  chit-chat  of  ; 
county  family,  we  gather  incidentally  how  considerable  is  th 
growth  of  interest  in  classical  learning.  The  Utopia  (1516 
of  SIR  THOMAS  MORE,  written  in  Latin,  supplies  us  with 
wonderful  picture  of  the  effect  of  the  Renascence  spirit  ii 
stimulating  the  social  ideals  of  thoughtful  Englishmen.  I 
to  his  book  we  add  Lord  Berner's  translation  of  Froissar 
(1523-25),  we  cover  the  most  remarkable  products  of  th« 
Transitional  period. 

We  are  on  the  eve  of  the  English  Renascence  now — a  thru 
of  imaginative  splendour,  which  lasted  with  few  fluctuation 
until  the  coming  of  Milton. 

1.  THE  DRAMA 

In  a  crude  and  clumsy  form  the  Drama  had  existed  Ion 
before  the  sixteenth  century ;  the  Elizabethan  transformed  i 
into  a  thing  of  force  and  beauty.     Yet  it  is  curious  to  find  ho 
1  Quire,  or  book. 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  29 

poor  an  opinion  the  Elizabethan  had  of  the  dramatic  art. 
Even  Shakespeare,  who  considered  carefully  the  publication  of 
his  poems,  treated  his  dramatic  scrip  with  careless  contempt. 
The  Play  was  something  to  be  seen — not  to  be  read.  An  ap- 
preciation of  this  fact  explains  to  some  extent  the  loose  con- 
struction of  many  of  the  dramas,  as  well  as  the  note  of  violence 
and  coarseness  so  persistently  struck.  It  was  an  age  when 
bear-baiting  and  cock-fighting  were  favourite  sports  ;  when 
cruelty  and  bloodshed  were  a  part  of  our  ritual  of  mirth,  and 
the  Tower,  "  London's  lasting  shame,"  as  Gray  called  it,  dark 
with  years  and  sinister  with  secrets,  served  as  the  symbol  at 
once  of  despotic  power  and  princely  magnificence.  Indeed, 
when  we  consider  the  character  of  the  playgoers,  and  the  per- 
sistent demand  for  horseplay  and  brutality,  we  can  only  marvel 
that  the  genius  of  our  greater  men — of  Marlowe,  Shakespeare, 
and  Ben  Jonson — rose  so  often  superior  to  the  demand  of  the 
moment.  Not  the  least  of  our  national  debt  to  Shakespeare  is 
due  to  the  way  in  which  he  helped  to  widen  our  vision  and 
mellow  our  sympathies.  In  an  age  which  hated  the  Jew  as  an 
alien  and  moral  monstrosity,  he  gave  us  a  Shylock ;  and  to  a 
generation  that  revered  above  all  the  man  of  action,  he  gave  a 
Hamlet. 

Roughly  speaking,  it  may  be  said  that  the  Drama  was  born 
under  the  shadow  of  the  Church  and  nurtured  for  religious 
purposes.  The  value  of  the  spectacular  appeal  in  an  age  when 
printing  was  unknown  is  of  profound  importance.  And  had 
not  the  Church  fostered  the  Drama  for  her  own  purposes  during 
the  Middle  Ages,  it  would  not  have  been  the  force  it  was  in 
the  age  of  the  Renascence. 

First  Stage  in  the  Development  of  the  Drama. — Obviously, 
Drama  is  inherent  in  the  very  ritual  of  the  Church ;  for  the 
Mass  itself  is  a  doctrinal  point  presented  in  spectacular  form. 
In  order  to  familiarise  men  and  women  with  the  stories  of  the 
Bible  these  were  acted  from  time  to  time — the  season  of  the 
year  determining  the  nature  of  the  play.  Stories  which  were 
taken  from  the  Bible  were  called  Mysteries;  those  taken,  from 
the  lives  of  the  Saints,  Miracle  Plays. 

Second  Stage. — The  second  stage  is  reached  when  the  play 
emerges  from  the  Church  into  the  market-place.  This  was 
effected  when  the  Gilds  were  entrusted  with  the  performances 
in  the  fourteenth  century.  It  was  customary  for  each  craft 
to  represent  a  play  according  to  its  particular  trade.  For  in- 
stance, the  Fishermen  presented  the  Flood  ;  the  Vintners,  the 
Marriage  at  Cana.  The  work  was  very  seriously  taken  by  the 


30     A  HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Gilds,  lack  of  competence  and  unpunctuality  being  met  by 
heavy  fines. 

Performances  were  given  on  cars  or  scaffolds  in  the  open 
spaces  of  the  town.  There  was  no  attempt  at  scenery,  but 
attention  was  given  to  stage  properties.  There  was  a 
monstrous  head  with  movable  jaws  to  represent  Hell ;  and,  in 
addition  to  a  rich  costume,  the  actor  had  some  symbol  to  denote 
his  part — e.g.  St.  Stephen  had  a  stone ;  God  was  symbolised  by 
the  Papal  dress. 

The  play  of  Noah  gives  us  some  insight  into  the  nature  of 
these  plays,  and  shows  the  blending  of  rough  English  humour 
with  didactic  purpose.  For  though  the  drama  had  its  source  in 
sacred  story,  in  the  method  of  telling  we  can  trace  the  influence 
of  the  old  English  amusements — the  Pageants  and  May  Games, 
the  horse-play  of  the  Juggler,  and  the  quips  of  the  Jester. 

Noah  having  finished  his  Ark  informs  his  wife  of  the  fact, 
and  begs  her  to  enter.  Dame  Noah,  however,  having  deter- 
mined to  go  on  a  jaunt  with  a  crony,  declines  the  invitation 
with  some  finality  of  manner.  After  an  altercation,  in  which  the 
services  of  the  son  Japhet  are  enlisted,  she  is  compelled  to  enter. 
But  no  sooner  in  than  in  a  true  shrewish  spirit  she  boxes  her 
husband's  ears !  And  he  finds,  poor  man,  that  although  sheltered 
from  one  storm  he  has  exposed  himself  to  another. 

On  the  whole,  Miracle  Plays  proved  more  popular  than  Mys- 
teries, probably  on  account  of  their  fresher  subject-matter. 
Each  big  town  had  its  own  Cycle  of  Plays — e.g.  York,  Chester, 
Coventry. 

Third  Stage. — The  third  stage  is  reached  when  the  Mystery 
and  Miracle  Play  give  place  to  the  Morality  and  Interlude.  In 
the  Mystery  and  Miracle,  serious  and  comic  elements  were  inter- 
woven. Now  they  part  :  the  Morality  presenting  the  serious 
and  the  Interlude  the  lighter  side  of  things.  The  INiorality  was 
frankly  didactic,  dealing  in  abstractions  and  allegory.  The 
characters  typified  certain  qualities— e.g.  Sin,  Grace,  Repent- 
ance. The  Interlude  aimed  merely  at  amusement.  Famous 
examples  of  both  types  of  play  are  found  in  Everyman  and  The 
Four  P's  of  Hey  wood.1 

Moralities  continued  to  flourish  up  to  the  end  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  and  were  popular  even  in  the  heyday  of  Shakespeare's 
fame. 

Fourth  Stage. — The  fourth  stage  sees  the  beginning  of  Eng- 
lish tragedy  ;  for  Tragedy  preceded  Comedy,  in  England  as 
in  Greece.  We  have  reached  now  the  influence  of  the  Renas- 
1  a  Pardoner ',  a  Pedlar,  a  Palmer,  a  Poticary. 


THE  ENGLISH  EENASCENCE  31 

cence,  and  see  the  effect  of  classical  influences.  Seneca's  Tra- 
gedies, with  their  earnest  and  strenuous  atmosphere,  attracted 
the  writers  of  the  day  ;  and  Gorboduc,  the  first  English  drama,  is 
the  result.  This  was  written  by  Sackville  and  Norton,  and  played 
before  Elizabeth  at  Whitehall  in  1562.  When  published  it  was 
called  Ferrex  and  Pollux.  Its  intrinsic  merits  are  slight,  for  it 
I  was  frankly  imitative,  and  its  verse  is  stiff  and  lifeless.  But  the 
classical  model  served  to  give  some  form  and  coherence  to  the 
crude  shapelessiiess  of  the  drama  at  the  time. 

Of  more  importance  at  this  period  was  the  development  of 
English  Comedy,  as  exemplified  by  Ralph  Roister  Doister  (c.  1566) 
and  Gammer  Gur  ton's  Needle  (1575),  plays  rich  in  English 
humour  ;  the  first  (the  better  of  the  two)  showing  a  keen 
sense  of  dramatic  movement. 

One  thing  is  clear  from  these  works,  and  that  is  the  gradual 
approximation  of  the  drama  to  the  life  of  the  day — especially 
the  comedy  side.  There  is  real  vitality,  but  so  far  little  literary 
grace  or  power.  This  gift,  however,  was  now  to  be  bestowed. 

The  initial  stages  of  this  glorification  are  due  to  a  new  school 
hat  had  arisen,  called  "  The  University  Wits  " — a  professional 
et  of  literary  men.  Of  this  little  constellation,  Marlowe  is  the 
entral  sun,  and  round  him  revolved  as  minor  stars  Lyly, 
Greene,  Peele,  Lodge,  and  Nash. 

Marlowe. — Christopher  Marlowe  was  born  in  Canterbury  of 
humble  stock,  and  dreamed  his  early  dreams  in  the  cathedral 
city.     Later  on  he  went  to  London,  where  he  varied  his  literary 
'  work  with  reckless  bursts  of  dissipation,  and  died  in  an  inglo- 
ious  brawl  at  Peptford  in  1593. 

With  little  of  Greene's  power  for  actualising  the  life  of  the 
lay,  or  Lodge's  clear-cut  characterisation,  Marlowe  had  a  wealth 
>f  poetry  in  him  far  transcending  that  of  any  contemporary  save 
Jhakespeare. 
What  did  he  do? 

He  raised  both  the  matter  and  manner  of  the  arama  to  a  higher 
evel.  In  the  first  place  by  seizing  large,  serious  subjects  for 
reatment,  that  appealed  to  the  imagination  ;  in  the  second  place 
>y  turning  blank  verse,  at  his  coming  stiff  and  unyielding,  into 
,  thing  of  delicate  and  plastic  beauty.  Compare  these  lines  from 
lorboduc — 

"  O  hard  and  cruel  hap,  that  thus  assigned 
Unto  so  worthy  a  wight  so  wretched  end ; 
But  most  hard,  cruel  heart,  that  could  consent 
To  lend  the  hateful  destinies  that  hand 
By  which,  alas,  so  heinous  crime  was  wrought " — 


32     A   HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

with  these  from  Faustus — 

"  Was  this  the  face  that  launched  a  thousand  ships 
And  burnt  the  topless  towers  of  Ilium  ? 
Sweet  Helen,  make  me  immortal  with  a  kiss. 

Oh,  thou  art  fairer  than  the  evening  air 
Clad  in  the  beauty  of  a  thousand  stars  ! " 

How  did  he  work  this  transformation  ? 

He  found  blank  verse  consisting  of  lines,  each  ending  with  an 
accented  monosyllable  ;  each  line  standing  nervelessly  by  itself. 
He  modified  the  rhythmic  pauses,  changed  the  accents,  made 
the  metre  suit  the  subject  instead  of  fitting  the  subject  to  the 
metre,  arid  in  his  own  words  bade  farewell  "  to  the  jigging  veins 
of  rhyming  mother-wits,  and  such  conceits  as  clownage  keeps 
in  pay."  Moreover,  he  gave,  what  the  elder  plays  lacked,  form 
and  coherence  to  his  subject. 

His  Plays. — Tamburlaine. — Tamburlaine  is  a  Scythian  peasant 
who  becomes  a  mighty  monarch,  until  at  last,  drunk  with  the 
blood  of  his  enemies  and  his  own  insatiable  ambition,  he  is 
smitten  with  sickness  by  the  Gods. 

Faustus. — Faustus,  like  Paracelsus,  aspires  to  all  knowledge, 
and  sells  his  soul  to  gain  it.  The  story  here  is  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  though  Marlowe  gave  it  a  Renascence  setting,  transform- 
ing the  anxious  alchemist  into  an  ardent  idealist,  and  softening 
the  material  horrors  of  the  mediaeval  version. 

The  Rich  Jew  of  Malta. — This  play  lacks  the  pictorial  splendour 
of  Tamburlaine,  and  the  imaginative  beauty  of  Faustus,  but; 
has  a  superb  opening  scene,  and  presents  a  remarkable  study  of 
avaricious  passion. 

Edward  II. — Edward  II  is  on  another  plane  entirely.  It  has 
nothing  of  the  glitter  and  pomp  of  the  earlier  plays,  but  is  in- 
comparably better  constructed,  and  shows  more  psychological 
power. 

Marlowe  saw  clearly  enough  that  the  Romantic  Drama  was 
suited  to  the  needs  of  the  nation,  and  that  therefore  no  other 
form  of  drama  could  express  so  well  its  abundant,  concrete  life. 
But  he  saw  also  that  for  the  Romantic  Drama  to  be  a  thing  of 
beauty  as  well  as  a  force,  the  medium  of  blank  verse  must  be 
chosen.  No  finer  tribute  was  paid  him  than  that  given  by 
Michael  Drayton,  in  Epistles  of  Poets  and  Poesy  (1627) : 

"  Neat l  Marlowe,  bathed  in  the  Thespian  springs, 
Had  in  him  those  brave  translunary  things 

1  Ingenuous. 


THE  ENGLISH  KENASCENCE  33 

That  the  first  poets  had  :  his  raptures  were 
All  air  and  fire  which  made  his  verses  clear ; 
For  that  fair  madness  still  he  did  retain 
Which  rightly  should  possess  a  poet's  brain." 

"  Fair  madness  "  is  a  satisfying  phrase  fit  to  rank  beside  the 
noble  suggestion  of  Keats,  that  "  Poetry  should  please  by  a  fine 
excess." 

He  had,  of  course,  the  defects  of  the  temperament  of  his  age  ; 
a  frequent  over-luxuriance  of  imagination,  a  lack  of  restraint, 
an  extravagance  bordering  on  the  ridiculous.  But  no  criticism 
can  obscure  the  greatness  of  his  genius.  He  found  the  drama 
crude  and  chaotic  ;  he  left  it  a  great  force  in  English  literature. 

Marlowe's  genius  did  not  incline  him  much  to  the  lyric,  though 
his  famous  Passionate  Shepherd  shows  what  he  could  do  in  this 
direction.  But  his  fragmentary  narrative  poem,  Hero  and 
Leander,  has  a  fresh,  sensitive  beauty  transcending  the  coarser 
magnificence  of  young  Shakespeare's  Venus  and  Adonis.  The 
haunting  line,  "Who  ever  loved  that  loved  not  at  first  sight?" 
lingered  long  in  Shakespeare's  memory. 

The  other  writers  of  Marlowe's  group,  though  markedly  in- 
ierior,  must  not  be  overlooked,  for  one  and  all  contributed  in 
some  measure  to  the  transformation  of  the  drama,  in  which 
Marlowe  was  the  chief  factor.  Lyly  gave  it  literary  grace,  Peele 
.nformed  blank  verse  with  a  sweetness  and  melody  second  only 
bo  that  of  Marlowe.  Two  of  his  most  notable  plays  were  the 
BattU  of  Alcazar  and  David  and  Bathsheba: 

David.  "  Now  comes  my  lover  tripping  like  the  roe 
And  brings  my  longings  tangled  in  her  hair, 
To  joy  her  love  I'll  build  a  kingly  bower 
Seated  in  hearing  of  a  hundred  streams." 

The  plays  of  Greene,  Lodge,  and  Nash  show  less  skill  in  the 
manipulation  of  blank  verse,  and  less  sustained  beauty.  On  the 
Dther  hand  they  have  abundant  vitality  and  vigour,  and  both 
Grreene  and  Lodge  were,  of  course,  melodious  and  accomplished 
song  writers. 

Thomas  Kyd  followed  the  Senecan  School  very  closely,  and 
;s  largely  responsible  for  the  "blood  and  thunder"  element  in 
bhe  Elizabethan  drama.  He  ranks  below  his  contemporaries 
n  dramatic  and  poetic  power.  But  he  did  his  share  in  breaking 
iway  from  the  pedantic  dullness  of  Gorboduc. 

The  Theatre. — The  drama  flourished  for  a  considerable  while 
before  the  theatre — council  chambers,  guild  halls,  the  yards  of 
inns,  these  being  the  theatres  of  the  early  Elizabethans.  The 

C 


34     A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

Queen  had  her  Company  of  Players,  and  most  of  the  noblemen 
theirs. 

The  first  regular  theatre  was  built  at  Blackfriars  by  James 
Burbage  in  1576.  Afterwards  came  the  Curtain,  in  Shoreditch, 
1576 ;  the  Globe,  in  South\vark — the  famous  "  Wooden  O," 
1594;  the  Fortune,  in  Shoreditch,  1599.  Performances  took 
place  daily  in  the  early  afternoon,  and  lasted  for  about  a  couple 
of  hours.  Shakespeare's  plays  were  given  only  at  Burbage 's 
theatre  and  at  the  Globe. 

These  early  theatres  were  large  wooden  sheds,  partly  thatched 
with  rushes,  a  flagstaff  on  the  roof,  and  surrounded  by  a  trench. 
They  clustered  round  the  swampy  ground  beside  the  Thames, 
and  gave  rise  to  a  good  deal  of  vexation  to  quiet  citizens  in 
the  neighbourhood.  For  around  these  playhouses  in  the  after- 
noons the  narrow,  tortuous  streets  were  so  crowded  by  a  noisy, 
frivolous  concourse  that  "  business  suffered  in  the  shops,  pro- 
cessions and  funerals  were  obstructed,  and  perpetual  causes  of 
complaint  arose." 

But  despite  objections  by  the  residents  and  bitter  criticism 
by  the  Puritans,  theatres  multiplied  rapidly.  In  the  majority 
of  theatres  the  auditorium,  as  in  ancient  Greece,  was  open  to 
the  sky,  only  the  stage  being  roofed.  Thus  the  pleasure  of 
sight-seeing  was  of  a  doubtful  kind  in  bad  weather. 

There  were  no  tickets.  A  penny  (about  fivepence  /in  /our 
money)  admitted  to  standing  room  in  the  yard.  Rich  specta- 
tors watched  the  performance  from  boxes  on  each  side  of  the 
stage,  paying  about  twelve  shillings  in  modern  reckoning  for 
the  privilege  of  a  seat.  In  the  upper  proscenium  box  were  the 
orchestra  of  the  Globe,  the  largest  in  London,  composed  of  ten 
performers,  with  drum  and  trumpets  for  the  martial  scenes, 
oboes  and  flutes  to  suggest  the  sentimental  passages. 

The  fashionable  part  of  the  house  was  on  the  stage  itself. 
There  sat  the  royal  patrons  of  the  theatre,  Essex  and  South- 
ampton, with  their  friends.     Failing  seats,  these  gentlemen 
sprawled  upon  the  rush-strewn  boards,  over  which  they  spread 
their  rich  cloaks.     Here  also  sat  the  dramatic  poets  of  the 
time,  to  whom  were  accorded  a  free  pass.     Most  important  of 
all  to  us  were  the  shorthand  writers,  commissioned  by  piratical  i 
booksellers,  who  took  down  the  dialogue,  under  pretence  ofj 
criticising  it,  and  thus  preserved  for  posterity  many  plays  that  | 
otherwise  would  have  been  lost. 

The  giving  of  a  tragedy  was  signalised  by  draping  the  stage  I 
with  black  ;  for  a  comedy  blue  hangings  were  substituted.  A I 
placard  hung  upon  one  of  the  stage  doors  bore  the  legend  of  I 

- 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  35 

Venice  or  Verona,  as  the  case  might  be  ;  no  other  indication 
was  there  of  the  mise-en-scene.  In  the  battle  scenes  an  entire 
army  scurried  in  and  out  through  a  single  door.  One  can 
understand  the  apology  of  the  Prologue  in  Henry  V : 

"  Can  this  cockpit  hold 

The  vasty  fields  of  France  ?  or  may  we  cram 
Within  this  wooden  O  the  very  casque 
That  did  affright  the  air  at  Agin  court  1 " 

No  women  ever  appeared  on  the  stage,  and  few  attended  the 
theatre  at  all.  It  was  far  too  rough  a  place,  but  sthe  Queen 
summoned  the  players  to  Court  on  special  festivals — Twelfth 
Night,  and  so  on. 

Shakespeare.— Born  in  1564,  at  Stratford-on-Avon,  the  son 
of  a  well-to-do  burgess,  William  Shakespeare  came  to  London 
about  1587.  His  fat  her 's  fortunes  had  declined,  and  his  un- 
happy early  marriage  to  Anne  Hathaway,  combined  with  the 
lack  of  employment,  were  instrumental  probably  in  driving  the 
youth  from  country  lanes  to  the  streets  of  London.  Another 
factor  in  impelling  him  Londonwards  may  have  been  the  visit 
of  the  Queen's  Players  in  1587,  turning  his  thoughts  stagewards. 
Be  that  as  it  may,  to  London  he  came,  and  in  1594  there  is 
mention  of  him  as  belonging  to  the  Lord  Chamberlain's  Com- 
pany. Actor,  re-shaper  of  old  plays,  poet,  dramatist,  and 
manager,  such  are  the  chief  phases  in  his  career.  Little  as  we 
know  about  the  facts  of  his  life,  we  can  gather  that,  together 
with  extraordinary  creative  powers,  he  must  have  combined  a 
shrewd  and  businesslike  capacity  for  ordering  his  affairs. - 

In  1612  there  is  reason  to  suppose  he  returned  to  Stratford, 
and  lived  there  with  his  daughter  until  1616,  when  he  died  of 
a  fever. 

The  period  of  Shakespeare's  literary  activity  extends  over 
twenty-four  years  (1588-1612),  and  this  may  be  broken  up  into 
four  sub-periods. 

THE  FIRST  PERIOD  (1588-94). — Here  historical  plays  pre- 
dominate. He  continues  the  work  of  Marlowe,  and  essays  to 
mirror  the  broad  national  features  of  Plantagengt  life.  The 
one  tragedy,  Romeo  and  Juliet  (1592),  is  essentially  a  young 
man's  tragedy,  strong  in  lyric  beauty  though  lacking  the  gran- 
deur and  breadth  of  the  later  tragedies  ;  while  The  Merchant  of 
Venice  (1594),  though  in  form  a  comedy,  is  in  a  sombre  frame- 
work of  tragic  irony,  relieved  by  a  golden  thread  of  romance. 

For  the  rest,  he  writes  in  buoyant  spirits  a  social  extrava- 
ganza, Love's  Labour's  Lost  (1591) ;  a  rollicking  farce,  The  Comedy 


36  /   A  HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  Errors  (1592) ;  a  sentimental  romance,  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona 
(1591)  ;  and  a  fantastic  romance,  A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream 
(1594-95). 

Marlowe  probably  had  a  share  in  the  Henry  VI  plays ;  he 
frankly  inspired  Richard  III  and  Richard  II ;  King  John  being 
the  first  of  the  historical  plays  which  shows  an  emergence  from 
the  domination  of  Marlowe. 

THE  SECOND  PERIOD  (1594-1-600). — Shakespeare  has  now  found 
himself.  There  are  three  historical  plays  here,  finer  in  quality 
than  those  preceding,  the  two  plays  of  Henry  IV  (1597)  and 
Henry  V  (1598).  Henry  F"is  the  more  showy,  and  has  been  well 
described  as  a  "  National  Anthem  in  five  acts  "  ;  but  the  Henry 
IV  plays  are  far  richer  in  humour  and  psychological  power.  Of 
the  comedies,  The  Taming  of  the  Shrew  (1595)  and  The  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor  (1598)  are  cast  in  the  early  farcical  vein,  though 
the  handling  is  easier  and  stronger  ;  Much  Ado  about  Nothing 
(1599)  is  on  a  higher  plane  of  wit ;  while  in  As  You  Like  It  (1600) 
and  Twelfth  Night  (1600),  humour  and  romance  blend  in  perfect 
proportion. 

To  this  period  belong  the  Sonnets,  printed  later  in  1609. 
There  are  two  series,  the  first  addressed  to  a  young  man,  one  to 
whom  Shakespeare  had  been  deeply  attached  ;  the  second  con- 
cern a  woman,  one  who  has  obviously  played  the  part  of  an  evil 
genius  in  the  poet's  life.  For  simple  intensity  of  feeling  and 
variety  of  expression,  they  are,  as  love  sonnets,  unrivalled  in 
our  language. 

THE  THIRD  PERIOD  (1600-08).— In  the  third  period  Tragedy 
predominates,  and  we  reach  here  the  culminating  point  of 
Shakespeare's  power  as  a  dramatist.  The  romances  of  the 
period,  A  Ws  Well  that  Ends  Well  (1595),  Measure  for  Measure 
(1604),  and  Troilus  and  Cressida  (1603),  are  essentially  tragedies 
set  in  a  key  of  forced  comedy  ;  they  are  rich  in  poetry,  but 
leave  a  confused  and  unpleasant  impression  upon  the  mind. 

Incomparably  greater  are  the  Tragedies.  Starting  in  grave 
measured  style  with  Julius  Ccesar  (1608),  he  rises  to  greater 
heights  of  drama  and  reflective  poetry  in  Hamlet  (1602) ;  while 
in  Othello  (1604),  King  Lear  (1605),  and  Macbeth  (1606)— thai; 
superb  trilogy  of  plays,  imaginative  subtlety  and  passionate 
intensity  make  of  these  dramas  the  most  superb  and  compelling 
in  our  literature. 

THE  FOURTH  PERIOD  (1608-12). — The  last  period  opens  with 
Tragedy.  Antony  and  Cleopatra  (1608),  with  weaker  dramatic 
grip  than  its  immediate  predecessors,  but  fully  as  ripfe  in  the 
strength  of  its  characterisation.  Coriolanus  (1609),  Timon  of 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  37 

Athens  (1608),  and  Pericles  (1608),  are  only  fitfully  great ;  but 
when  in  the  eventide  of  his  career  he  turned  again  to  his  first 
love,  Romance,  we  get  Cymbeline  (1610),  The  Tempest  (1611),  and 
The  Winter's  Tale  (1611). 

The  tragic  period  has  left  behind  it  a  legacy  of  spiritual  power 
and  imaginative  subtlety  which  make  the  last  works  of  the 
dramatist  a  fitting  paean  of  farewell. 

Nature  of  the  Shakespearean  Drama. — In  Shakespearean  drama 
almost  every  phase  of  the  life  of  the  age  is  mirrored,  from  the 
particular  craze  and  fashion  of  the  moment  to  the  broad,  general 
characteristics  of  the  national  life. 

Thus  Love's  Labour's  Lost  (1591)  was  in  its  inception  a  social 
satire  dealing  with  the  fashions  and  fads  of  the  day.  Euphuism l 
and  extravagance  in  dress  are  derided  with  as  much  topicality  of 
allusion  as  a  play  of  Bernard  Shaw  would  show  to-day.  The  Eliza- 
bethan pedant  figures  amusingly  in  Holofernes,  who  has  been 
"  at  a  great  feast  of  languages  and  stolen  the  scraps."  Hotspur's 
speeches  abound  in  reference  to  current  fashions — e.g.  he  speaks 
of  velvet  guards  on  the  dress  of  fashionable  city  ladies,  and  there 
are  many  references  in  the  plays  to  favourite  games  and  sports 
— e.g.  the  mention  of  tennis  in  Henry  V. 

And  just  as  he  deals  with  ephemeral  fads  and  crazes  and 
some  passing  event,  so  does  he  deal  on  a  much  larger  scale 
with  the  broad  phases  of  Elizabethan  national  life.  The  dull- 
witted  country  constable  is  held  up  for  ridicule  in  Love's  Labour's 
Lost  and  Much  Ado  about  Nothing.  The  elaborate  ritual  of 
Court  life  is  depicted  in  A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream  and 
Antony  and  Cleopatra;  its  trickeries  arid  pretentiousness  in 
Hamlet ,  Timon  of '  Athens,  and  Cymbeline. 

How  clearly  is  reflected  in  the  plays  the  whole-hearted 
belief  of  the  people  at  large  in  good  and  bad  spirits.  Hamlet 
asks  the  Ghost : 

"  Be  thou  a  spirit  of  health  or  goblin  damned — 
Bring  with  thee  airs  from  heaven  or  blasts  from  hell  ?  " 

And  Macbeth  is  set  in  a  similar  background  of  witchcraft. 
Or  to  illustrate  from  his  romantic  plays— the  fairy  beings  in 
the  wood  near  Athens,  the  spirits  that  obeyed  the  behests  of 
Prospero,  were,  we  may  be  sure,  as  real  to  many  of  Shakespeare's 
audiences  as  Helena  and  Miranda.  ^- 

In  all  of  these  matters  Shakespeare  was  of  his  age.  That  is 
the  Elizabethan  side  of  him.  An  astute  borrower,  with  a  ready 
eye  for  a  .good  plot  wherever  he  might  chance  to  find  it ;  a 
1  See  post,  page  52. 


38     A   HISTOEY  OF   ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

skilful  reader  of  the  pulse  of  the  public ;  a  gentle,  sensitive, 
sensuous  and  somewhat  melancholy  man  ;  often  called  upon, 
against  the  grain  we  may  conjecture,  to  satisfy  the  rough  taste 
of  the  "  groundlings." 

But  there  is  the  universal  side  of  the  man.  He  was  of  his 
age ;  but  he  was  also  of  the  ages.  And  this  by  virtue,  not  so 
much  of  his  dramatic  power,  which  often  suffers  through  the 
loose  texture  of  his  work,  but  of  his  incomparable  poetry  and 
insight  into  human  nature.  He  is  the  supreme  poet  in  an 
age  of  great  poetry,  because  his  poetry  is  wider  in  range  and 
deeper  in  feeling  than  that  of  his  contemporaries.  He  touches 
every  mood  :  of  graceful  sentiment,  as  in  the  romantic  comedies  ; 
of  delicate  fantasy,  as  in  the  fairy  plays  ;  of  philosophic  medita- 
tion, as  in  the  tragedies  of  the  mid-period;  and  of  poignant 
passion,  as  in  the  later  tragedies.  In  the  verse  that  bodies 
forth  such  primal  things  as  love,  hate,  hope,  despair,  courage, 
endurance,  Shakespeare  towers  above  his  fellows.  And  when 
we  think  of  Lear  in  his  desolation,  of  Othello  in  his  last  anguish, 
of  Macbeth  in  his  soul  agony,  and  the  despair  of  Cleopatra — 
we  think  of  English  literature  at  its  grandest. 

Of  his  insight  into  character,  it  may  be  said  that  a  ready 
test  of  the  actuality  of  his  characters  is  the  impression  they 
make  on  the  modern  reader.  Portia,  Rosalind,  Beatrice,  Cleo- 
patra, Juliet,  are  startlingly  modern.  Placed  beside  the  women 
of  Sheridan  or  Goldsmith,  and  you  realise  how  the  latter  are 
dated  and  how  alive  and  fresh  are  the  former.  Beside  them 
even  the  women  of  Dickens  and  Thackeray  seem  old-fashioned. 
And  the  reason  is  that  Shakespeare's  women  have  the  primal 
qualities  of  womanhood  common  to  every  age,  and  therefore 
can  never  be  dated. 

And  there  is  subtlety  no  less  than  actuality.  Are  not  the 
nervous  breakdowns  of  Richard  III  and  Macbeth,  the  con- 
trary moods  of  Cleopatra,  indicated  with  rare  delicacy  of 
effect  ?  With  what  masterly  touches  the  figure  of  rash,  hot- 
tempered  Harry  Percy  is  drawn.  How  impatient  he  is  about 
the  medical  advice  on  the  field  of  battle : 

" ...  He  made  me  mad 
To  see  him  shine  so  brisk  and  smell  so  sweet, 
And  talk  so  like  a  waiting  gentlewoman : 
Of  guns  and  drums  and  wounds — God  save  the  mark  I—- 
And telling  me,  the  sovereign'st  thing  on  earth 
Was  parmaceti  for  an  inward  bruise  1 " 

While  with  unerring  insight  Shakespeare  differentiates  such 


THE  ENGLISH  EENASCENCE  39 

vital  rogues  as  Falstaff,  the  Tavern  haunter,  and  Autolycus,  the 
Vagabond  of  the  fields. 

Ben  Jonson. — The  Man. — A  clever  boy  at  Westminster  School, 
probably  of  Scottish  origin,  who  attracted  the  attention  of 
Camden  the  historian  ;  a  bricklayer  who  studied  Juvenal  and 
Horace  while  plastering  walls,  a  soldier  in  Flanders,  a  duellist, 
an  actor,  a  poet,  a  playwright — such  is  a  brief  summary  of 
Jonson's  career.  Personally  a  tall,  stalwart  man,  hearty  in  his 
likes  and  dislikes  as  in  his  eating  and  drinking ;  satirical  yet 
affectionate ;  domineering  yet  free  from  jealousy — sincere, 
direct,  brave,  quarrelsome — such  a  man  was  "  rare  Ben  Jonson." 

His  methods. — Unlike  his  contemporary  Marlowe,  he  is  largely 
a  maker  of  comedy.  Unlike  Shakespeare,  he  is  content  to 
satirise  men  and  women  rather  than  to  present  them  in  their 
entirety.  He  is  a  moralist  in  the  first  place,  artist  afterwards. 
But  his  scope  is  very  wide,  comprehending  tragedy  (Sejanus 
(1603),  Catiline  (1611)),  masques,  comedies,  farces.  Under 
James  I  he  was  literary  dictator,  the  leading  spirit  at  the 
" Mermaid"  Tavern,  numbering  among  his  friends  Shake- 
speare, Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  Chapman,  Herrick,  Camden, 
and  Bacon. 

His  technical  skill. — At  the  outset  of  his  career  he  refurbished 
old  plays  in  the  romantic  manner  ;  but  this  ill-suited  him. 
Shakespeare  when  manager  helped  him  at  a  critical  point 
in  his  career  by  staging  his  comedy,  Every  Man  in  his 
Humour — where  not  only  the  individual  anti-romantic  note  is 
clearly  struck,  but  his  skill  in  construction  is  first  seen. 
Perhaps  the  best  example  of  his  dramatic  construction  is  in 
the  comedy  of  Volpone,  where  Jonson  exposes  the  vice  of 
cupidity  with  relentless  but  finely  sustained  satire.  Dryden 
looked  upon  this  play  as  the  most  admirably  constructed 
specimen  of  modern  dramatic  art.  But  another  comedy,  tech- 
nically almost  as  satisfying  as  Volpone,  is  The  Silent  Woman, 
where  a  number  of  intrigues  are  blended  with  rare  skill,  and 
the  interest  steadily  accumulates  from  scene  to  scene. 

With  all  his  admiration  of  Shakespeare,  Jonson  disliked  the 
easy-going  selection  of  plots  dear  to  his  great  contemporary. 
His  advice  to  younger  dramatists  on  this  point  is  certainly 
sound,  for  he  reprehends  those  who  "  waylay  all  the  old  books 
they  can  hear  of,  in  print  or  otherwise,  to  fare  their  scenes 
withal  ...  as  if  their  imagination  lived  wholly  upon  another 
man's  treacle." 

Detailed  observation. — There  is  no  more  elaborate  painter  of 
London  life  than  Jonson.  Shakespeare  paints  with  a  bigger 


40     A  HISTOKY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

brush  ;  but  for  detailed  effects  Jonson  is  supreme.  He  satirizes 
vice  with  the  vigour  of  Moliere,  but  not  with  his  adroitness. 
Had  he  lashed  less  furiously  he  might  have  kept  a  better  edge 
on  his  rapier.  Truly  did  a  friend  once  say  to  him,  "  You  write 
with  a  porcupine  quill  dipped  into  too  much  gall." 

Yet  this  over  emphasis  was  certainly  not  due  to  any  blunted 
observation.  His  similes  are  neat  and  happy.  For  instance, 
this  of  an  ill-bred  man : 

"  He  minds 

A  curtesy  no  more  than  London  Bridge 

Which  arch  was  mended  last." 

And  when  he  keeps  his  didacticism  in  check,  as  in  that 
amusing  farce,  Bartholomew  Fair,  his  observant  humour  finds 
abundant  scope. 

Zeal  of  the  Land  Busy  abhors  Fairs  and  all  their  vanities, 
but  is  discovered  "fast  by  the  teeth  in  the  cold  turmey 
pie  .  .  .  with  a  great  white  loaf  on  his  left  hand  and  glass  of 
Malmsey  on  his  right."  Later  on  he  moralises  (a  la  Pecksniff 
at  Todger's)  about  his  food.  "We  may  be  religious  in  the 
midst  of  the  profane,  so  it  be  eaten  with  a  reformed  mouth." 

His  graceful  fancy. — In  imaginative  intensity  Jonson  is  in- 
ferior not  only  to  Shakespeare,  but  to  Marlowe,  Webster, 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  and  other  contemporaries.  But  he 
had  a  graceful  fancy  which  showed  to  rich  advantage  in  the 
Masques,;  and  here  and  there  it  lightens  up  the  Comedies 
with  luminous  flashes. 

His  last  work,  The  Sad  Shepherd,  contains  some  of  his 
pleasantest  conceits.  The  shepherd  laments  his  charming 
Earine  ;  spring  had  died  with  her,  and  since  then  earth  has 
borne  but  thorns : 

"  Here  she  was  wont  to  go,  and  here,  and  here, 
Just  where  those  daisies,  pinks,  and  violets  grow : 
The  world  may  find  the  spring  by  following  her  ..." 

His  lyrics  have  sweetness  and  abundant  grace.  As  instances, 
there  are  the  songs,  "  O  do  not  wanton  with  those  eyes,"  the 
"Celia"  cycle,  and  the  familiar  paraphrase  from  Philistrates, 
"Drink  to  me  only  ..." 

His  mind  and  imagination  never  fused  with  the  white  heat 
of  creative  passion,  as  was  the  case  with  Shakespeare,  but  he 
exercised  a  wholesome  effect  on  the  drama  where  Romanticism 
had  been  carried  too  far. 

This  indifference  to  form,  this  careless  exuberance  of  treat- 
ment, mattered  little  in  the  hands  of  Shakespeare.  Instinct 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  41 

e  often  took  the  place  of  rules  and  conventions.  But 
Shakespeare's  method  could  found  no  school,  and  imitation  of 
him  led  to  disaster. 

The  more  deliberate  observation  of  Jonson,  his  adherence  to 
classical  conventions,  his  careful  scholarship,  his  insistence  upon 
a  clear  appreciation  of  what  the  writer  wished  to  express — all 
these  matters  were  of  serious  importance  to  writers  who  had 
talent  but  no  genius. 

The  influence  of  Jonson  lasted  well  on  into  the  eighteenth 
century. 

Of  the  crowd  of  dramatists  who  succeeded  Shakespeare  and 
Ben  Jonson,  it  is  impossible  to  speak  save  in  the  briefest  fashion. 
A  few  of  them,  Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  and  Thomas  Heywood 
for  instance,  were  more  voluminous  than  even  Jonson.  Heywood 
boasted  that  he  had  had  "  an  entire  hand,  or  at  least  a  finger  " 
in  two  hundred  and  twenty  plays.  Small  wonder  that  with 
this  productiveness  few  of  the  plays  bear  to  be  read  except  in 
snatches.  They  were  for  the  most  part  hurriedly  produced  to 
meet  the  continual  demand  for  fresh  drama  ;  and  were  com- 
posed frankly  to  please  an  audience,  not  to  interest  the  student. 

But  around  this  crowd  of  names  a  few  detach  themselves 
by  virtue  of  special  qualities,  and  at  the  head  are  Beaumont 
and  Fletcher.  Marston  and  Tourneur  are  more  passionate, 
Webster  more  poignantly  tragic  ;  Dekker  has  greater  gaiety, 
Thomas  Middletbn  a  more  brilliant  wit.  But  for  a  combina- 
tion of  these  characteristics  in  some  measure,  Beaumont  and 
Fletcher  take  the  palm.  And  in  one  quality  they  certainly 
excel  their  contemporaries — artistic  restraint. 

The  weakness  in  the  majority  is  the  insistence  on  what  is 
merely  horrible  and  obscene.  This  is  something  other  than 
the  hearty  coarseness  of  Shakespeare  ;  it  is  the  trick  by  which 
a  writer  seeks  to  gain  preference  over  his  fellows. 

Among  the  most  remarkable  of  these  dramas  are:  (1)  for 
gaiety  and  vivacity  and  insight  into  contemporary  Life,  Beau- 
mont and  Fletcher's  Knight  of  the  Burning  Pestle — The  Spanish 
Curate— The  Wild  Goose  Chase  (an  Elizabethan  version  of  Man 
and  Superman) ;  Middleton's  Changeling,  and  Dekker's  Shoe- 
maker's Holiday;  (2)  for  tragic  intensity,  Ford's  Broken  Heart, 
and  Webster's  White  Devil,  which  is  superior  to  his  more  con- 
ventionally pathetic  Duchess  of  Malfi. 

Towards  the  historical  drama  Chapman  (the  translator  of 
Homer)  and  Heywood  did  good  work.  And  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  comedy  of  manners  developed  later  by  the 
Restoration  dramatists,  Massinger  in  his  New  Way  to  Pay  Old 


42     A  HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Debts  (1633)  played  an  important  part.     He  is  the  forerunner 
of  the  brilliant  satires  of  the  Restoration  drama. 

2.  POETRY 

Elizabethan  poetry  has  all  the  freshness  and  vigour  of 
youthful  race — 

"  Bliss  was  it  in  that  dawn  to  be  alive, 
But  to  be  young  was  very  Heaven." 

At  first  the  poets — scholars  and  courtiers — could  do  little 
but  stammer  with  fitful  grace.  The  instrument  is  there,  but 
they  cannot  as  yet  pipe  on  it.  They  are  embarrassed  and  self- 
conscious.  But  this  awkwardness  melts  away.  When  we 
reach  Spenser  and  Sidney,  the  tentative  flutings  are  over. 
The  music  is  sweet,  spontaneous,  full-throated. 

And  so  abundant  was  the  output  of  poetry,  that  when  the 
drama  had  taken  all  it  needed,  there  was  a  wealth  of  melody 
left  over. 

The  poetry  of  the  age  opens  with  the  publication  of  a 
volume  known  as  Tottel's  Miscellany  (1557).1  This  book  con- 
tained the  verse  of  those  ill-fated  courtiers,  Sir  Thomas  Wyatt 
and  the  Earl  of  Surrey,  and  marks  the  first  English  poetry  of 
the  Renascence. 

Of  these  two  names  Wyatt's  is  the  more  important.  Model- 
ling his  work  upon  Italian  models,  he  attempted  a  great  variety 
of  metrical  experiments — songs,  madrigals,  sonnets,  elegies ; 
somewhat  imitative,  but  with  touches  of  grace  and  fantasy. 

Surrey  is  seen  rather  as  the  disciple  of  Wyatt  than  an  inde- 
pendent force ;  though  at  times  his  sonnets  are  more  effective 
than  those  of  Wyatt.  Wyatt  adhered  strictly  to  the  Petrarcan 
model,  used  with  such  fine  effect  at  a  later  date  by  Milton,  and 
still  more  recently  by  Rossetti.  Surrey  modified  the  form,  and 
it  was  this  modification  that  Shakespeare  seized  upon  in  his 
splendid  Sonnet  sequence.  The  Petrarcan  form  is  perhaps  the 
more  impressive ;  the  modified  English  form  the  more  ex- 
pressive. 

Surrey  also  translated  the  second  ^Eneid  into  blank  verse. 
This  is  the  first  example  of  blank  verse  in  English.  Rhymed  verso 
hitherto  had  held  undisputed  sway  ;  but  one  effect  of  the 
study  of  the  classics  was  to  lesson  the  prestige  of  rhyme. 

1  Richard  Tottel,  a  printer  who,  along  with  Grimald,  a  University 
scholar  and  chaplain  to  Ridley,  made  a  collection  of  verse  written  by 
courtiers  of  Henry  VII. 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  43 

Surrey's  blank  verse  was  very  unlike  the  sonorous  measure  it 
became  in  the  hands  of  Marlowe.  But  it  was  a  step  at  any 
rate  in  the  direction  of  a  form  of  literature  in  which  the 
greatest  Elizabethans  won  their  highest  triumphs.  Surrey  and 
Wyatt  stand  in  relation  to  the  glory  of  English  poetry  under 
Spenser  and  Shakespeare  as  Thomson  and  Collins  do  to  Words- 
worth and  Shelley. 

Gascoigne,  like  most  of  the  earlier  verse-writers,  was  a  man 
of  breeding  and  good  education.  His  blank  verse  is  more 
vigorous  than  Surrey's,  and  there  is  a  greater  individuality  in 
his  lyrics — Flowers,  Herbs,  and  Weeds  (1575). 

Thomas  Sackville  strikes  an  even  stronger  note.  Here  at 
last  we  begin  to  escape  from  the  stiffness  that  cramps  his  im- 
mediate predecessors.  There  is  real  music  in  his  verse ;  and 
The  Complaint  of  Buckinghame  shows  both  variety  and  power  of 
pathos. 

But  there  is  as  yet  little  indication  of  that  exuberant  delight 
in  life  afterwards  so  manifest. 

Surrey  is  inclined  to  dwell  on  the  little  miseries  of  love ; 
Gascoigne  is  largely  concerned  with  sorrow  and  the  under- 
world ;  and  Sackville's  fancy  is  quaint  rather  than  ardent, 
pensive,  not  joyful. 

In  fact,  the  Elizabethan  poet,  so  far,  is  like  Borneo  in  his 
early  stage  of  love  for  Rosaline,  which  was  more  or  less  of  a 
fancy  to  be  embellished  with  literary  tears  and  sighs. 

SIR  PHILIP  SIDNEY,  one  of  the  most  attractive  personalities  of 
the  time,  strikes  a  richer  and  deeper  note.  Cultured,  sensitive, 
"witty  and  ardent,  he  spent  many  years  of  his  life  in  travel.  But 
in  1578  he  settled  down  in  London,  and  for  about  ten  years, 
until  the  time  of  his  death,  he  devoted  himself  to  literature. 

Less  brilliant  than  Marlowe,  less  witty  than  Lyly,  inferior  to 
Spenser  in  glamour,  and  excelled  by  many  a  contemporary  song- 
writer in  deftness  of  fancy,  he  has  produced  a  body  of  work 
which  for  its  versatile  excellence  places  him  in  the  foremost  rank 
of  his  time. 

Of  his  Arcadia  and  its  remarkable  influence,  mention  is  made 
elsewhere.  Here  may  be  noted  the  discerning  critique — TJie 
Defence  of  Poesy — where  he  uttered  those  poignant  simple  words 
that  go  to  the  root  of  all  poetry :  "  I  never  heard  the  old  story 
of  Percy  and  Douglas,  that  I  found  not  my  heart  moved  more 
than  with  a  trumpet." 

And  his  quick  and  sensitive  imagination  enables  him  to  pluck 
out  the  very  soul  of  song.  "  It  is  not  riming  and  versing  that 
maketh  a  poet,  no  more  than  a  long  gowne  maketh  an  advocate, 


44     A  HISTORY   OF   ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

who  tho'  he  pleaded  in  armour  should  be  an  advocate  and  no 
soldier." 

In  poetry  it  is  as  a  sonneteer  that  he  will  be  best  remembered. 
Out  of  his  own  disappointments  in  love  he  wove  a  fine  cycle  of 
sonnets  to  "  Stella,"  some  of  remarkable  sweetness  : 

"  Ring  out  your  belles,  let  mourning  sheaves  be  spread, 
For  love  is  dead." 

Edmund  Spenser. — "An  over -faint  quietness  " —  wrote 
Sidney  in  1581 — "  should  seem  to  strew  the  house  for  poets." 

Hitherto  the  scholar  and  courtier  had  ruled  the  domain  of 
fantasy  with  pleasing  and  graceful,  though  not  very  vital 
results. 

But  from  1590  to  1600,  Sidney's  lament  about  the  dearth  of 

Eoetry  dies  down.  The  richness  of  the  drama  in  those  years 
as  already  been  noticed ;  its  fecundity  in  poetry  was  equally 
remarkable. 

And  Edmund  Spenser  is  the  forerunner  of  this  great  move- 
ment. He  showed  to  Englishmen  the  music  and  beauty  of  his 
mother-tongue,  as  none  since  Chaucer  had  shown  it. 

In  early  years,  along  with  the  Shepherd's  Calendar,  are  nine 
comedies  on  Italian  models.  The  comedies  have  not  survived, 
nor  can  we  regret  the  Jack  Certainly  Spenser's  talents  did 
not  point  that  way.  He  lacked  the  humour  and  actuality  of 
his  great  predecessor  ;  and  his  muse  was  too  wedded  to  allegory 
to  interest  herself  in  forms  other  than  the  Morality. 

The  Shepherd's  Calendar  is  a  medley  of  twelve  pastorals  on  the 
months  of  the  year.  The  form  is  one  made  fashionable  by  Virgil, 
though  copied  by  him  from  the  Alexandrian  Greeks  ;  it  was  an 
artificial  form  of  poetry  approved  by  the  age,  and  already  taken 
advantage  of  by  the  accomplished  Sidney  in  his  Arcadia. 

There  is  no  real  attempt  to  get  at  either  the  beauty  or  the 
homeliness  of  country  life  as  we  get  it  in  Wordsworth  or  Crabbe. 
It  is  merely  a  peg  for  some  robust  moralising,  and  excellent 
fantasy,  and  satire. 

But  The  Shepherd's  Calendar  pales  in  significance  beside  the 
Faerie  Queene. 

This  poem  was  neither  written  in  England  nor  inspired  by 
England.  Ireland  is  the  inspiration ;  Ireland  is  the  scenic  back- 
ground ;  Ireland  supplies  the  stuff  of  adventure  ;  Ireland — the 
troublous,  storm-tossed  Ireland  of  Elizabeth's  reign. 

The  enemies  of  Gloriana  were  flesh  and  blood  enemies ;  the 
knights  came  from  Elizabeth's  Court  —  were  not  Raleigh, 
Ormonde,  and  Grey  of  their  number?  And  for  this  reason, 


THE  ENGLISH  EENASCENCE  45 

>erhaps,  this  poem  has  been  called  the  Epic  of  the  English 
Wars  in  Ireland  under  Elizabeth. 

The  poem  reveals  a  sober,  chaste,  and  sensitive  spirit ;  one 
ieenly  alive  to  sensuous  beauty,  but  kept  from  the  grossness 
ind  coarseness  of  some  of  his  brilliant  contemporaries  by  a  mind 
)f  singular  refinement ;  and  beauty  is  for  him  of  the  supremest 
ralue  in  life.  Small  wonder  that  Keats  was  fired  by  his  verse, 
or  certainly  his  famous  phrase,  "  A  thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  for 
aver,"  is  entirely  Spenserean  in  sentiment. 

The  poem  set  out  to  be  a  story  with  twelve  knights  of 
Elizabeth  who  undertake  various  enterprises  in  her  honour.  But 
Che  poet  had,  unlike  Chaucer,  little  gift  of  narrative,  and  soon 
wranders  off  the  main  road  into  the  flowery  meads  of  fancy. 
Starting  in  the  middle  of  one  of  the  adventures,  he  never  com- 
petes his  initial  design,  and  the  poem  is  merely  a  lovely  mosaic 
into  which  are  woven  deeds  of  chivalry  and  pictorial  fantasies, 
uid  grave  moralising.  From  the  pleasaunces  and  excitements 
)f  chivalry  Spenser  takes  his  ideas  ;  yet  he  is  not  content  merely 
bo  tell  an  entertaining  story  as  Tasso  and  Ariosto  had  done, 
but  to  present  his  visions  in  a  framework  of  high  and  noble 
jurpose.  Indeed,  in  a  letter  to  Raleigh  he  avows  his  purpose  is 
:<  to  fashion  a  gentleman  ...  in  virtuous  and  gentle  discipline." 

What  differentiates  Spenser  from,  say,  Shakespeare  the  poet, 
s  the  equable  calm  that  pervades  even  his  fervour.  Sensitive 
bo  every  phase  of  imagination  and  beauty,  there  is  always  a 
dreamy  atmosphere  about  his  verse.  The  sharp,  vivid  intensity 
of  Shakespeare  is  not  his  ;  but  he  has  his  own  particular  charm. 
For  an  analogy  to  Shakespeare's  poetry  we  must  turn  to  Shelley 
and  the  more  passionate  phases  of  Browning's  art.  With 
Spenser,  we  think  of  Keats  and  William  Morris. 

His  genius  is  epic,  not  lyric ;  he  is  a  story-teller,  not  a 
singer.  He  has  something  of  Homer's  ancient  simplicity,  though 
not  the  poignancy.  But  the  similes  are  primal  and  direct. 

A  wounded  hero  falls 

"  ...  as  an  aged  tree, 
High  growing  on  the  top  of  rocky  clift." 

His  is  a  rich  ornate  imagination  ;  yet  it  rarely  becomes  turbid 
and  oppressive.  If  it  lacks  Marlowe's  thrill,  it  certainly  also 
lacks  his  violence.  It  is  a  thing  of  prismatic  colouring,  refracting 
the  white  light  of  common  day  in  delicate  rainbow  hues.  The 
symbolism  behind  his  faerie  music  need  not  trouble  us  ;  and 
we  may  enjoy  the  adventures  of  his  Knight  of  the  Cross  de- 
fending his  beloved  Una,  almost  without  realising  that  it  is 


46     A  HISTOKY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the   battle  between   truth  and  falsehood    with  which  he  is 
concerned. 

And  yet  the  mingling  of  Puritanism  and  sensuous  pleasure 
is  one  of  the  chief  charms,  just  as  it  was  that  of  a  great  successor 
— Milton. 

The  world  of  Chivalry  supplies  him  with  his  poetic  imagery. 
He  has  drunk  of  that  magical  stream  of  Romance  that  inspired 
the  old  Arthurian  cycle.  In  his  company  we  hear  "  the  horns 
of  Elfland  faintly  blowing."  Through  the  witchery  of  his  genius 
the  rude  legends  of  the  past  are  bereft  of  their  roughness  and 
barbarity,  and  shine  like  polished  gems. 

So  far  the  poetry  passed  under  notice  has  been  of  the  stately 
and  sentimental  kind.  To  find  a  livelier  mood  we  must  turn 
to  a  school  of  poetry  which  sprang  up  about  the  time  of  Spenser 
— the  lyric  school,  and  gave  expression  to  the  more  sensitive 
moods  of  the  Elizabethan. 

The  lyric  was  already  a  literary  force  both  in  Italy  and 
France ;  but  until  1580  it  did  not  impress  itself  upon  English 
imagination.  What  brought  about  the  sudden  flowering  of  the 
lyric  ?  To  some  extent  the  persistent  study  of  foreign  poetry, 
but  chiefly  the  growing  popularity  of  music. 

Such  brilliant  musicians  as  Byrd,  Tallis,  and  Dowland  needed 
articulate  expression  for  their  sweet  lute  melodies.  The  gift 
of  song  no  doubt  was  dormant  in  many  an  Elizabethan  verse- 
writer.  It  needed  some  outside  stimulus  to  call  it  forth,  and 
assuredly  at  no  time  in  our  history  has  there  been  so  rich  a 
company  of  singers ;  some  already  famous  in  other  directions 
as  dramatists  or  novelists,  many  quite  unknown  save  for  their 
"  short  swallow  flights  of  song." 

William  Byrd  is  the  earliest  of  these  singers,  but  his  verse 
is  characterized  by  its  quaint  moralising  rather  than  by  any 
flight  of  fancy.     Lighter  in  texture  are  the  Songs  of  John 
Dowland,  famed  for  his  "  heavenly  touch  upon  the  lute." 
the  last  years  of  the  sixteenth  century  he  published  two  volume 
of  "  Songs  and  Airs/'    Take  this  charming  snatch  from  the  firs 
volume  (1597) — 

*'  Dear,  if  you  change,  I'll  never  choose  again ; 
Sweet,  if  you  shrink,  I'll  never  think  of  love  ; 
Fair,  if  you  fail,  I'll  judge  all  beauty  vain  ; 
Wise,  if  too  weak,  more  wits  I'll  never  prove. 
Dear,  sweet,  fair,  wise !    Change,  shrink,  nor  be  not  weak; 
And,  on  my  faith,  my  faith  shall  never  break." 

Campion  distinguished  himself  in  three  capacities,  puttin 
aside  his  fame  as  a  musician.     He  wrote  masques,  among 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  47 

I  best  of  their  kind ;  displayed  his  nimble  wit  and  scholarship 
(in  Latin  verse  ;  and  discussed  in  prose  form  the  values  of 
music  and  poetry. 

Campion's  songs  are  light  as  thistledown,  and  float  away  in 
bhe  air. 

Following  these  came  John  Daniel,  Robert  Jones,  Thomas 
Morley,  and  in  the  early  years  of  the  seventeenth  century  a 
crowd  of  names,  about  whom  in  many  cases  little  is  known  save 
for  the  gay  and  tender  lyrics  ascribed  to  them.  Before  leaving 
them  we  must  not  overlook  the  splendid  profusion  of  lyrical 
wealth  to  be  found  in  the  Elizabethan  dramas  and  masques, 
from  the  boisterous  humour  of  Ralph  Roister  Doister,  through 
the  work  of  Lyly,  Greene,  Lodge,  and  Nash,  the  mighty 
structure  of  Shakespeare,  down  to  Heywood,  Fletcher,  and 
Sir  William  Davenant.  In  the  post-Shakespearean  drama, 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher — the  best  all-round  dramatists — are 
Likewise  the  freshest  and  most  melodious  singers ;  Fletcher's 
contributions  being  especially  musical. 

During  the  earlier  years  of  the  seventeenth  century,  the 
poetry  of  the  time  shows  the  influence  of  two  distinct  schools. 
Just  as  the  dramatists  of  the  day  follow  the  leadership  of 
Shakespeare  or  Ben  Jonson,  so  do  the  poets  model  themselves 
upon  Spenser  or  Donne.  The  Spenserian  school  are  allegorical 
and  descriptive  ;  the  school  of  Donne  meditative  and  lyrical. 

The  Spenserian  School. — The  most  important  names  here 
are  those  of  the  brothers  Giles  and  Phineas  Fletcher  (cousins  of 
John  Fletcher,  the  dramatist),  Drummond  of  Hawthornden, 
William  Browne,  and  GeorgeWither.  Giles  Fletcher'slongpoem, 
Christ's  Victory  and  Triumph  (1610),  is  obviously  inspired  by  the 
Faerie  Queene,  and  has  something  of  its  sweetness  and  richness. 
Lts  special  significance  lies  in  the  fact  that  it  bridges  the  nar- 
rative romance  of  Spenser  and  the  religious  epic  of  Milton, 
suggesting  at  once  the  manner  of  the  elder  Elizabethan  poet 
and  the  matter  of  the  last  of  the  great  Renascence  writers. 
The  pastoral  and  allegorical  note  of  Spenser  is  discernible  also 
in  Phineas  Fletcher's  Purple  Island;  and  there  is  descriptive 
rigour  and  beauty  in  the  Pastorals  (1613)  of  the  Devonshire 
poet,  William  Browne ;  George  Wither,  the  most  prolific  of  this 
little  group,  is  also  the  most  unequal,  but  at  his  best  can  repro- 
duce effectively  the  lingering  sweetness  of  Spenser.  His  well- 
biown  "Shall  I  wasting  in  despair?"  is  said  to  have  been  written 
tvhile  he  was  imprisoned  in  the  Marshalsea. 

The  School  of  Donne. — There  were  before  Donne  writers  like 
Davies  and  Fulke  Greville  (Lord  Brooke),  whose  temperaments 


48     A  HISTORY  OF   ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

inclined  them  to  philosophical  subjects.  But  Donne  is  the 
great  personality  to  develop  and  emphasize  the  reflective  vein. 

John  Donne,  with  his  passionate  nature  and  restless  vitality, 
like  many  of  the  literary  men  of  his  age,  was  a  man  of  action, 
as  well  as  a  man  of  letters.  Erratic  and  pleasure-loving  in  his 
youth,  he  passed,  like  St.  Francis  d'Assisi,  from  one  extreme 
to  another  in  the  course  of  his  life,  and  in  his  later  years  aa 
Dean  of  St.  Paul's  proved  a  preacher  of  great  emotional 
power,  "  always  preaching  to  himself,"  as  his  biographer  Izaak 
Walton  said,  "  like  an  angel  from  a  cloud,  but  in  none." 

The  bulk  of  his  poetry  was  written  in  earlier  years,  and 
despite  the  extravagance  and  obscurity  of  much  of  his  work, 
is  finely  musical,  while  its  note  of  wistful  meditation  inspired 
many  who  excelled  their  master  in  sweetness  and  clarity. 

Among  those  who  came  under  his  influence  may  be  mentioned 
the  accomplished  Lord  Herbert  of  Cherbury,  the  first  to  use 
the  metre  of  In  Memoriam;  Robert  Herrick,  most  delightful 
of  hedonistic  clerics  ;  Suckling,  fertile  in  dainty  conceits  ;  un- 
happy Lovelace,  famous  for  his  "  Loved  I  not  Honour  more  " ; 
that  ardent  mystic,  Richard  Crashaw  ;  brilliant  Carew  ;  Henry 
Vaughan  and  George  Herbert,  men  of  more  delicate  clay,  in 
whose  verse  the  puritanical  quaintness  of  Donne's  poetry  is 
more  observable. 

Last  in  this  pleasant  company  of  singers  is  Edmund  Waller, 
admirable  as  a  stylist,  but  lacking  the  warmth  and  unstudied 
grace  of  his  predecessors,  save  in  one  or  two  short  pieces, 
especially  the  charming  song,  "  Go,  lovely  rose." 

Drayton. — One  poet  hard  to  classify,  because  of  the  great 
variety  of  his  work,  is  Michael  Drayton.  Indeed  it  is  for  his 
variety,  not  for  any  special  excellence,  that  he  is  notable.  And 
he  had  undoubted  versatility,  giving  us  a  topographical  poem, 
The  Polyolbion,  of  genuine  interest ;  some  accomplished  lyrics,  an 
admirable  war  song,  The  Ballad  of  Agincourt,  and  an  ingenious 
fantasy,  Nymphadia. 

John  Milton. — In  his  literary  parentage  he  owes  somewhat 
to  both  Donne  and  Spenser,  and  in  a  slight  degree  to  Ben 
Jonson.  But  his  debts  were  slight  as  compared  with  the  rich 
legacy  he  gave  to  English  poetry  ;  and  it  has  been  justly  said 
that  he  represented  the  fourth  great  influence  in  English 
prosody.  Chaucer  had  transformed  Middle  English  into  a 
robust  force  ;  and  Spenser  and  Shakespeare  gave — the  one  to 
narrative,  the  other  to  dramatic  poetry — a  sweetness  and 
variety  impossible  to  overrate.  Then  there  came  a  period 
largely  of  imitation  and  elaboration,  rather  than  of  any  great 


THE  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  49 

originality.  English  poetry  between  the  time  of  Shakespeare 
and  Milton  has  many  gifts  and  graces,  but  the  quality  of 
reatness  is  denied  it,  and  it  was  left  for  Milton  to  restore 
lis  quality  to  our  poetry.  He  is  the  last  word  in  the  English 
enascence.  Gradually  but  surely  its  splendour  had  been 
tding  away,  but  in  Milton  it  flames  up  into  a  glorious  sunset, 
id,  like  the  sunset,  touched  by  a  grave  and  pensive  beauty 
eculiarly  its  own. 

The  serious  and  meditative  spirit  infused  by  Puritanism 
ito  the  poetry  of  the  time  turned  Milton's  thoughts  from 
nch  subjects  as  the  Arthurian  Legend  (once  considered  by 
m),  and  his  epic  genius  found  perfect  expression  in  the 
iblical  story  of  the  Fall  of  Man.  Nothing  is  more  character- 
tic  of  the  poet  than  the  arduous  mental  development  he 
eliberately  set  before  himself  in  order  to  grapple  with  his 
ask.  The  earlier  years  of  his  life  were  spent  in  hard  study 
nd  preparation ;  then  for  a  while  he  plunged  into  fierce 
olitical  controversy  in  the  cause  of  civil  and  religious 
berty  :  finally,  in  the  last  years  of  his  life  he  gave  us,  as  the 
uit  of  his  mature  genius,  Paradise  Lost,  Paradise  Regained,  and 
amson  Agonistes. 

Sense  of  Beauty. — Possessing  a  sense  of  beauty,  as  keen 
lough  less  unrestrained  than  that  possessed  by  the  Eliza - 
ethans,  Milton's  devotion  to  form  and  coherence  separate 
m  from  the  great  Romantics,  and  give  to  the  beauty  of  his 
erse  a  delicacy  and  gravity  all  their  own.  Like  Jonson  he 
tvoured  the  classical  conventions  rather  than  the  happy- 
o-lucky  methods  of  Romanticism  ;  but  unlike  Jonson  he 
ever  allowed  his  scholarship  to  chill  his  creative  imagination, 
owhere  is  this  quality  of  beauty  better  displayed  than  in  the 
arly  poems,  in  Allegro,  Penseroso,  Comus,  and  Lycidas.  They 
ave  all  the  freshness  and  charm  of  youth,  and  exhibit  the 
ghter  and  more  fanciful  side  of  Milton's  genius. 
As  an  illustration,  take  the  image  in  his  address  to 
lelancholy  : 

"  Come,  pensive  nun,  devout  and  pure." 

A  Stateliness  of  Manner. — And  with  this  sense  of  beauty 
i  combined  a  stateliness  of  manner. which  gives  a  high  dignity 
•  Milton's  poetry,  that  has  never  been  surpassed,  and  rarely 
jualled  in  our  literature. 

The  dramatic  possibilities  of  blank  verse  had  been  developed 
>  a  wonderful  degree  by  Marlowe  and  Shakespeare,  but  in 
leir  successors  it  had  to  some  extent  deteriorated.  Jonson;s 


50     A   HISTOEY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATUEE 

classical  severity  was  not  combined  with  any  considerable 
beauty  or  distinction  ;  and  the  increasing  looseness  of  textur< 
in  the  plays  favoured  a  slovenly  tendency  in  the  blank  versi 
of  the  day.  In  the  lighter  form  of  verse,  and  in  the  lyric,  then 
was  no  such  falling  off ;  but  the  more  ambitious  and  elaborati 
forms  of  non-dramatic  poetry  stood  in  need  of  some  influenci 
at  once  chastening  and  inspiring.  In  his  great  epic,  Miltoi 
is  extraordinarily  fertile  in  the  methods  he  adopts  to  avoi< 
monotony.  He  strengthens  blank  verse  without  cramping 
it  ;  he  gives  it  grace  without  making  it  vapid,  and  rounds  oi 
with  finished  care  the  single  line  without  ever  sacrificing  tb 
organic  unity  of  the  entire  poem.  He  is  like  a  great  organis 
who,  while  never  losing  sight  of  the  ancient  melody,  adorns  i 
with  every  conceivable  variation  which  serves  to  show  up,  ii 
place  of  obscuring,  the  freshness  and  sweetness  of  the  simpl 
theme. 

The  decadence  of  the  drama  was  in  itself  a  sufficient  testi 
mony  to  the  disintegrating  forces  of  the  day.     Austerity  wa 
needed  by  any  man  of  letters  who  would  raise  our  literatur 
again  to  a  noble  level.     And  none  used  this  quality  with  mo: 
unflinching  purpose  than  Milton.     No  doubt  it  made  him  ur 
popular.     Perhaps  no  great  poet  was  ever  accounted  so  litt 
by  his  own  generation  as  Milton.     But  his  greatness  was  n< 
for  long  undiscovered. 

The  modern  reader  may  regard  with  but  languid  intere 
the  celestial  pageant  that  Milton  unrolls  before  him  in  h 
lengthy  epics,  but  the  merits  of  Paradise  Lost  and  Paradi 
Regained  do  not  depend  upon  the  reader's  taste  in  theolog; 
but  upon  the  stark  grandeur  of  many  descriptive  passage 
and  the  passionate  love  of  Nature  which  glows  throughout  tl 
poet's  work.  It  meets  us  first  in  the  fresh  sweetness  of  IS  Alley 
and  II  Penseroso : 

"  Russet  leaves  and  fallows  grey, 
Where  the  nibbling  flocks  do  stray ; 
Mountain  on  whose  barren  breast 
The  labouring  clouds  do  often  rest ; 
Meadows  trim  with  daisies  pied, 
Shallow  brooks  and  rivers  wide  " 
gains  strength  and  dignity  in  Lycidas  : 

"  While  the  still  morn  went  out  with  sandals  grey," 
and   thrills   us  with  sublime  splendour   in  Paradise  Lost  a 
Samson  Agonistes  : 

"  .  .  .  airs,  vernal  airs 
Breathing  the  smell  of  field  and  grove,  attune 


THE  ^ENGLISH  RENASCENCE  51 

The  trembling  leaves  while  Universal  Pan, 
Knit  with  the  Graces  and  the  Hours  in  dance, 
Led  on  the  Eternal  Spring." 

3.  THE  NOVEL 

The  eager  inquisitive  spirit  that  flamed  up  at  the  Rena- 
scence could  not  exhaust  itself  entirely  in  the  expansion  of  our 
poetry,  or  even  in  the  creation  of  the  romantic  drama ;  for  in 
achieving  this  it  realised  also  the  compelling  interest  of  every- 
day actualities. 

Had  it  not  been  for  Italy  the  Novel  might  have  tarried  for 

another  hundred  years.     Rhetoric  and  song  were  indigenous 

to  the  race ;  Spenser,  Marlowe,  Shakespeare  would  have  found 

articulate  speech,  Italy  or  no  Italy.     But  it  may  reasonably  be 

doubted  whether  we  should  have  had  the  Elizabethan  novelist. 

Why  was   the  influence  of   Italy  so   suddenly  and   impera- 

ively  felt  ? 

Largely  because  of  the  newly  awakened  rage  of  the  day  for 
oreign  travel,  which  helped  to  spread  Italian  fashions  both  of 
iress  and  literature. 

And  Italy  was  the  home  of  the  Novel.    It  was  here  Boccaccio 
n  1350  first  attempted  those  prose  tales  of  amorous  adven- 
ure,  The  Decameron — "  Novella  Storia."     The  term  originally 
meant  a  fresh  story,  but  soon  novel  was  applied  to  any  story  in 
rose  as  distinct  from  a  story  in  verse,  which  retained  its  old 
appellation  of  Romance. 

Travel  stimulated  also  the  translation  of  Italian  literature. 
So  that  those  who  could  not  afford  to  travel  could  at  least 
learn  something  of  this  literary  El  Dorado  through  translations. 
The  mediaeval  Romance  dealt  with  a  legendary  past.  The 
tfovel  dealt  with  the  realities  of  everyday  life.  •  In  this  lay  its 
:ompelling  attraction. 

There  was  no  more  popular  book  than  WILLIAM  PAINTER'S 
iollection  of  Italian  Stories.  He  was  the  Clerk  of  the  Ordnance 
n  the  Tower,  and  his  translation  not  merely  inspired  the 
Romantic  Drama  but  interested  English  readers  in  Italian 
iction  specifically,  and  the  art  form  of  the  Novel  generally. 

The  Elizabethan  prose  writers  who  distinguished  themselves 
n  prose  fiction  were  John  Lyly,  Robert  Greene,  Thomas  Lodge, 
Sir  Philip  Sidney,  and  Thomas  Nash. 

John  Lyly  is  the  pioneer  of  the  English  Novel,  the  first 
.tylist  in  prose,  and  the  most  popular  writer  of  his  age.  A 
roung  Kentish  man,  with  slender  financial  resources  and  very 


52     A   HISTORY   OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

few  friends,  he  had  the  good  fortune  to  attract  the  attention 
of  Lord  Burleigh,  who  became  his  patron. 

In  1579  Lyly  published  the  first  part  of  his  famous  fiction, 
Euphues,  the  Anatomy  of  Wit. 

Euphues  was  a  good-looking,  nimble-minded  Athenian  youth 
who  goes  first  to  Naples,  then  to  England  to  study  men  and 
governments.  His  volubility  is  remarkable,  and  he  uses  his 
friend  Philautus  as  a  kind  of  conversational  Aunt  Sally  against 
whom  to  hurl  his  sententious  wisdom.  Once  indeed  during  the 
voyage  to  England  Philautus  does  rebel :  "  In  faith,  Euphues, 
thou  hast  told  a  long  tale,  the  beginning  I  have  forgotten,  the 
middle  I  understand  not,  and  the  end  hangeth  not  together  .  .  . 
in  the  meantime  it  were  best  for  me  to  take  a  nap,  for  I  cannot 
brook  these  seas,  which  provoke  my  stomach  sore." 

The  story  itself  is  slight,  with  a  mild  love  interest,  the  chief 
value  of  the  book  lying  in  its  picture  of"  English  customs  and 
its  peculiarities  of  style. 

The  style  is  marked  by  the  constant  use  of  antithesis  and 
alliteration,  which  at  times  becomes  mannered  to  a  wearisom 
extent,  but  often  gives  agreeable  force  and  pungency  to  th 
matter : 

"...  Where  salt  doth  grow  nothing  else  can  breed. 
Where  friendship  is  built  no  offence  can  harbour." 

Often,  too,  there  is  humour  : 

"  It  is  a  blind  goose  that  cometh  to  the  fox's  sermon." 
"  Thou  must  halt  cunningly  to  beguile  a  cripple." 

And  yet  Lyly's  prose  is  prose  which  has  not  yet  shaken  off  the 
ornaments  of  verse.  It  is  the  prose  of  an  age  that  could  fine 
its  speech  far  more  readily  in  song  and  sonnet. 

Robert  Greene,  who  succeeded  Lyly,  if  less  brilliant,  attaint 
a  greater  simplicity  in  his  later  writings. 

He  was  a  happy-go-lucky  Bohemian,  who  had  no  patron,  anc 
lived  on  his  wits.  His  first  novel  is  poor  and  imitative,  but  it 
Pandosto  (1588),  from  which  Shakespeare  took  his  Winter' 
Tale,  he  showed  real  originality.  The  most  considerable  facto; 
made  by  Greene  to  the  development  of  the  novel  is  to  be  fount 
in  his  pamphlets  rather  than  in  his  conventional  fiction,  fo: 
here  he  writes  from  personal  knowledge  of  the  "  underworld  ' 
of  his  day.  Especially  vivid  is  his  Life  and  Death  of  Ned  Brown* 
a  notorious  cut-purse,  wherein  he  anticipates  the  "  low  iife 
scenes  of  Defoe  and  Smollett. 

Another  writer  of  fiction  to  be  noted  is  Thomas  Lodge,  tl 
studious  friend  of  Greene.     He  travelled  much  in  the  earlie 


THE  ENGLISH   RENASCENCE  53 

years  of  his  life,  and  while  journeying  he  wrote  several  romances 
— one  entitled  Eosalynde  (1590),  which  inspired  Shakespeare's 
As  You  Like  It. 

The  fourth  important  name  in  the  fiction  of  the  time  is  Thomas 
Nash.  <;  Ingenuous,  ingenious,  fluent,  facetious  Thomas  Nash," 
as  his  friend  Lodge  called  him.  The  emphatic  quality  was  the 
racetiousness.  There  was  a  strain  of  humour  in  Lyly,  and  fitful 
mtbursts  of  gaiety  in  Greene,  but  both  Lodge  and  Sidney 
howed  rather  a  contemplative  wit  than  humour  or  mirthful- 
ness.  It  is  otherwise  with  Nash ;  he  has  a  rich  fund  of  humour 
hat  partakes  somewhat  of  Rabelais'  uproarious  quality. 

Nash,  like  Greene,  took  the  rogue  in  hand  and  painted  with 
kill  and  fidelity  the  needy  adventurer  of  the  time  :  The  Unfor- 
unate  Traveller,  or  The  Life  of  Jack  Wilton  (1594),  but  unlike  his 
ontemporary  he  did  so  with  a  smile  on  his  lips.  He  found  the 
English  novel  suffering  from  too  much  sentiment,  and  promptly 
reshened  it  with  his  light-hearted  humour. 

He  died  at  the  age  of  thirty-three,  having  shortened  his  days, 
ays  his  friend  Dekker,  "  by  keeping  company  with  pickled 
"lerrings." 

Eschewing  the  literary  affectations  and  manners  of  his  day, 
to  did  his  best  to  cultivate  an  individual  style,  vigorous,  easy 
md  vital,  one  well  suited  to  his  subject-matter.  He  is  the  pre- 
ursor  of  Fielding  ;  Lyly  the  progenitor  of  Richardson. 

Sidney's  Arcadia. — Of  Sidney's  work  as  a  poet  mention  has 
seen  made.  His  Arcadia  remains  to  be  noticed,  for  it  marks  a 
well-defined  stage  in  the  history  of  the  novel. 

Preceding  writers  had  been  more  or  less  disciples  of  Lyly  and 
mitators  of  Euphuism.  Sidney  invented  a  new  style.  And 
or  a  while  Arcadianism  displaced  Euphuism.  This  book,  written 
n  1580,  appeared  after  Sidney's  death.  It  was  written  primarily 
o  please  his  sister,  the  Countess  of  Pembroke.  In  essence  it  is 

romance  with  a  pastoral  flavouring.  There  is  more  character- 
sation  and  more  movement,  though  less  humour,  than  we  find 
n  Lyly  ;  more  passion  than  in  Greene,  if  less  actuality  :  and  a 
.ner  vein  of  poetry  than  in  Lodge,  though  more  unequal  in 
nterest.  The  style,  despite  artificialities,  rises  at  times  to  a 
evel  of  high  beauty.  With  Lyly's  Euphues  it  may  take  its  place 
s  one  of  the  dominant  influences  of  the  time. 

French  influences  more  considerably  affect  Sidney  than  his 
•redecessorSe  Perhaps  he  is,  of  all  of  them,  the  least  touched 
•y  the  magic  of  Italy,  though  he  was  a  great  admirer  of  Spanish 
iterature. 

Dekker,  whose  dramatic  work  has  already  been  noticed,  also 


54     A   HISTOEY  OF   ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

essayed  fiction.  But  although  he  had  some  measure  of  Nash's 
gaiety  and  shrewdness  of  observation  in  the  "Picaresque" 
stories  which  he  essayed,  it  is  as  a  dramatist  and  writer  of 
prose,  other  than  fiction,  that  he  is  most  entitled  to  remem- 
brance. With  the  close  of  the  Elizabethan  period  the  first 
period  of  the  English  novel  came  to  an  end.  During  the  next 
century,  French  romance  of  the  extravagant  and  artificial 
order  came  into  fashion  for  the  class  who  cared  about  fiction. 
But,  as  we  shall  see,  if  the  seventeenth  century  produced  no 
great  novelist,  it  produced  many  writers  who  contributed 
indirectly  to  the  amazing  development  of  the  Novel  which  took 
place  in  the  eighteenth  century. 

4.  PROSE  OTHER  THAN  FICTION 

In  the  prose  of  the  age  Roger  Ascham,  that  sturdy  Puritan 
scholar,  provides  a  suitable  starting-point. 

He  effectually  broke  away  from  the  elder  traditions  that 
gave  Latin  preference  to  English,  and  favoured  good,  direct 
English  prose.  His  distaste  for  romance  and  the  influence  of 
modern  Italy  kept  his  prose  somewhat  cramped  and  colourless. 
But  there  are  two  treatises  extant  of  his,  one  on  Shooting,  the 
other  on  School-mastering,  which,  if  lacking  in  flexibility  of  style, 
none  the  less  exhibit  him  as  a  writer  of  direct,  orderly  English. 

Ascham  gave  English  prose  clarity  ;  Lyly  imported  colour 
and  animation  into  it  ;  and  Sidney,  both  in  his  Arcadia  and  in 
his  admirable  Apologiefor  Poetrie  (1581),  gave  it  sweetness. 

Here  is  an  extract  from  the  description  of  the  Vale  of 
Arcadia : 

"...  Here  a  shepherd's  boy  piping  as  though  he  should  never 
be  old;  there  a  young  shepherdess  knitting,  and  withal  singing, 
and  it  seemed  that  her  voice  comforted  her  hands  to  work,  and  her 
hands  kept  time  to  her  voice  music." 

Richard  Hooker,  the  famous  preacher  and  controversialist, 
added  to  these  qualities  that  of  dignity.  Self-restrained  in 
his  dialectic,  he  is  equally  self-restrained  in  his  style.  Less 
fantastic  than  Lyly,  less  exuberant  than  Sidney,  there  is  a, 
power  and  a  balance  about  his  writing  that  none  of  his  pre- 
decessors could  achieve. 

The  most  considerable  name  at  the  close  of  the  Elizabethan 
age  is  that  of  FRANCIS  BACON.  His  cool,  judicious  temperament 
failed  to  attract  the  Queen,  and  this  enabled  his  uncle  Bur- 
leigh,  and  cousin  Robert  Cecil,  to  keep  him  from  opportunities 


THE  ENGLISH   RENASCENCE  55 

of  rising  ;  but  on  her  death  he  rapidly  made  his  way,  for  James 
took  considerable  interest  in  him,  and  it  was  during  the  later 
part  of  his  life  that  the  bulk  of  his  literary  work  was  done. 
Although  he  had  no  great  respect  for  the  English  language, 
holding  that  "  these  modern  languages  will  at  one  time  play 
the  bankrupt  with  books,"  yet  no  man  individually  did  more 
to  give  strength  and  simplicity  to  our  tongue  than  he.  So  far, 
the  great  defect  in  English  prose  was  its  prolixity  and  diffuse- 
ness.  Bacon,  put  an  end  to  this,  and  his  Essays  are,  even  to 
this  day,  a  model  of  terse,  easy  English.  With  his  philosophical 
and  scientific  treatises,  such  as  the  Novum  Organum,  we  need 
not  concern  ourselves  here.  From  our  point  of  view  the 
chief  writings  to  notice  are  the  Essays,  the  Advancement  of 
Learning,  the  History  of  Henry  VII,  and  the  New  Atlantis. 

The  keynote  of  the  New  Atlantis  is  the  pursuit  of  knowledge, 
which  in  Bacon's  view  is  a  religious  duty.  The  College  of 
Research,  which  he  pictures  in  his  fragmentary  sketch,  antici- 
pates the  Royal  Society,  which  sprang  into  being  later,  and 
served  as  a  model  (admitted  by  Diderot)  for  the  French  Ency- 

[  clopsedia  of  the  eighteenth  century.     Many  of   the  scientific 
hints  thrown  out  by  Bacon  as  Utopian  possibilities  have  now 

>  become  everyday  realities.     Certainly  we  may  claim  to  have 
"some  Degrees  of  Flying  in  the  Ayre  .  .  .  ships  and  Boates 

'  for  going  under  water."     Modern  medical  science  is  familiar 

\  with  "Chambers  of  Health   where  we  qualify  the  Aire  .  .  . 

j  for  the  cure  of  divers  Diseases."     These  are  but  a  few  illus- 
trations of  the  way  in  which  Bacon  foreshadowed  the  trend  of 

I  scientific  research. 

The  style  of  the  book  is  clear  and  direct.  Comparing  it  as 
a,  Utopian  picture  with  that  of  More,  a  few  points  of  interest 

;r  detach  themselves. 

(1)  More  emphasizes  the  social ;  Bacon  the  intellectual  well- 
'r  being  of  the  community. 

(2)  The  chief   note  in  More's    Utopia  is  simplicity  of   life, 
t,  whereas  the  chief  feature  of  the  citizens  of  Atlantis  is  orderli- 
n  less  of  life. 

>s     (3)  More  is  puritan  in  his  ideas  of  dress;  Bacon  favours  a 
a  jertain  external  splendour. 

(4)  The  tone  of  More's  mind  is  democratic ;  of  Bacon's 
iristocratic. 

m     Bacon's  fragment,   equally  with  More's  more  considerable 
!it  vork,  has  inspired  future  generations  no  less  by  its   fertile 
::•  suggestions  than  by  its  simple  charm  of  narrative. 
.*     Excellent  in  another  way  is  the  sketch  of  Henry  VII.    A 


56     A  HISTOEY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

lucid,  vigorous  piece  of  historical  narrative,  with  touches  of 
vivid  characterisation. 

Turning  to  the  Essays,  we  note  the  'intimate  ease  of  the 
style.  If  Montaigne  is  the  first  great  Essayist,  Bacon  is 
certainly  the  first  great  English  Essayist.  He  saw  clearly  that 
the  art  of  the  Essay  is  in  reality  the  art  of  Conversation  ; 
that  the  main  thing  was  to  get  into  familiar  touch  with  the 
reader,  and  this  could  only  be  done  by  avoiding  misty 
rhetoric  and  formal  mannerisms,,  and  stating  the  subject 
simply,  clearly,  and  tersely.  No  other  Essayist,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  Emerson,  has  shown  so  condensed  and  aphoristic  a 
style.  And  like  Emerson,  he  throws  off  a  succession  of  pithy 
epigrammatic  sayings.  "No  man,'J  said  Ben  Jonson,  "ever 
spake  more  neatly,  more  precisely,  more  weightily,  or  suffered 
less  emptiness,  less  idleness  in  what  he  uttered  .  .  ." 

Along  with  Bacon  may  be  mentioned  Jonson,  whose  Dis- 
coveries are  written  in  a  style  that  for  terseness  and  lucidity  is 
little  inferior  to  Bacon's. 

Influence  of  the  Bible. — The  Authorised  Version  of  the  Bible, 
which  appeared  early  in  the  seventeenth  century,  was  to  mould 
and  colour  the  literature  of  the  succeeding  centuries.  The 
translators  took  the  fullest  advantage  of  the  literary  beauty 
of  their  matter,  assisted  by  the  excellent  rough  material  pro- 
vided for  them  by  earlier  English  versions. 

Indirectly,  of  course,  since  Saxon  times,  Hebrew  song  had 
glorified  English  prose  ;  and  in  Csedmon's  Hymn,  where 
English  literature  found  its  earliest  expression,  we  have  the 
rhythm  and  parallelism  peculiar  to  Hebrew  poetry.  More- 
over, Hebraic  idioms  occur  continually  in  the  prose  of  Aelfred 
and  Aelfric,  Wyclif  and  Langland. 

But  the  effect  of  the  Authorised  Version  was  to  intensify 
enormously  the  influence  of  the  Bible  on  the  prose  of  the  time. 

The  greatness  of  English  prose  dates  from  the  translation 
of  the  Bible,  and  although  English  poetry  is  far  less  dependent 
for  its  excellence  upon  Hebrew  inspiration,  even  here  a  weight, 
dignity,  and  richness  were  added  to  it. 

During  the  Caroline  times  the  influence  of  the  Authorised 
Version  may  clearly  be  traced  in  the  prose  of  the  time.  It 
gives  dignity  to  such  historians  as  Clarendon  and  Fuller,  a 
sober  eloquence  to  the  devotional  outpourings  of  Jeremy 
Taylor,  and  an  ease  and  grace  to  the  quaint  fancies  of  Sir 
Thomas  Browne's  Reltgio  Medici  (1642)  and  Urn  Burial  (1658), 
and  the  discursive  wit  of  the  Anatomy  of  Melancholy  (1621), 
by  Robert  Burton. 


THE  AGE  OF  SATIEE  57 

Milton's  prose,  in  his  earlier  days,  has  more  of  the  rough 
vigour  and  directness  of  Elizabethan  polemics  than  the 
strength  and  beauty  of  its  greater  prose. s  But  two  of  his 
pamphlets  rise  to  a  higher  level:  The  Areopagitica,  or  Speech 
for  the  Liberty  of  Unlicensed  Printing  (1644),  and  the  tract  on 
Education  (1644). 

If  Milton  is  the  last  word  in  the  poetry  of  the  English 
Renascence,  Bunyan  is  the  last  word  in  prose.  In  both  of 
them  Puritanism  finds  eloquent  speecho  We  can  imagine 
neither  of  them  well  without  the  Authorised  Version — least 
of  all  Bunyan.  Milton's  style  also  is  steeped  in  classicism ; 
but  Bunyan,  simple  and  unlettered,  derives  directly  from  the 
Bible.  There  is  an  epic  quality  about  The  Pilgrim's  Progress 
(1677)  which  has  the  rare  merit  of  touching  the  imagination 
of  both  the  scholar  and  the  uncultured  man.  Had  he  been 
born  a  hundred  years  earlier,  we  might  have  had  another  and 
finer  Nash.  Undoubtedly  he  had  the  instinct  of  the  novelist, 
for  his  characterisation  is  clear  and  strong,  his  dialogue  alive, 
and  his  descriptive  power  vigorous  and  picturesque.  Then 
there  is  such  unpremeditated  art  and  sincerity  in  the  writing. 
Sincerity  and  vigour  inform  also  The  Holy  War  (1684)  and 
Grace  Abounding  (1666),  but  there  is  less  attempt  at  literary 
form  here.  Mention  must  be  made  of  that  remarkable  fiction, 
Hie  Life  and  Death  of  Mr.  Badman  (1680),  which,  despite  its  com- 
parative brevity,  challenges  equality  with  The,  Pilgrim's  Progress. 
The  .English  Novel  in  the  eighteenth  century  owed  a  heavy 
debt  to  John  Bunyan. 

Ill 

THE   AGE   OF   SATIRE   (c.  1660-1740) 
(From  Butler  to  Pope) 

Introduction. — About  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century 
a  change  began  to  come  over  the  spirit  of  English  literature. 
This  change  is  due  to  no  mere  fluctuation  of  literary  fashion, 
but  is  deeply  rooted  in  the  life  of  the  time.  The  age  of  the 
'Henascence  was  an  age  of  spiritual  and  material  expansion. 
Englishmen  realised  for  the  first  time  their  solidarity  as  a 
nation ;  and  released  suddenly  from  continental  struggles, 
especially  from  the  dread  of  Spanish  supremacy,  they  found  an 
outlet  for  their  excited  emotions  in  drama  and  song.  Loyalty 
to  Elizabeth  became  a  flaming  passion ;  pride  and  delight  in 
their  country's  past  a  religious  faith.  This  spirit  is  reflected 


58     A   HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

in  the  Faerie  Qmene,  and  in  the  historical  plays  of  Marlowe  and 
Shakespeare. 

But  the  emotional  fervour  was  too  high  pitched  to  last. 
Already  in  the  early  years  of  the  seventeenth  century  its 
splendid  exuberance  had  degenerated  into  extravagance  and 
violence.  The  lofty  idealism  that  had  steadied  the  venture- 
some bark  of  Elizabethan  poesy  was  growing  attenuated, 
and  the  great  minds  in  the  closing  years  of  the  age,  like 
Bacon  and  Milton,  reflect  in  their  writings  the  dawn  of  fresh 
interests.  The  purification  of  civic  and  political  life  emerges 
more  and  more  into  the  forefront.  Shakespeare  and  Ben  Jonson 
stand  aloof  from  the  political  problems  of  the  hour.  Bacon 
and  Milton  are  active  politicians  no  less  than  great  writers. 
But  until  the  Restoration,  the  full  significance  of  this  change 
is  not  realised.  It  meets  us  first  of  all  in  the  later  poems  of 
Abraham  Cowley,  and  in  the  polished  verse  of  Edmund  Waller 
and  Sir  John  Denham  ;  it  frankly  and  unmistakably  proclaims 
itself  a  new  note  in  our  literature  with  the  coming  of  Dryden. 

What  are  the  Characteristics  of  this  Change  1—Tlie 
Dominance  of  the  Critical  Spirit  in  place  of  tlie  Imaginative  Spirit. 
Such  a  change  is  inevitable  when  literature  is  made  the  vehicle 
of  attacking  the  political  life  of  the  day.  The  creative  imagi- 
nation moves  on  the  plane  of  primal  human  qualities:  it  is 
concerned  with  the  interpretation  of  human  nature,  and 
although  passing  movements  may  give  a  local  habitation  and 
a  name  to  some  of  its  dioramic  pictures,  the  main  object  is  not 
to  criticise  the  life  of  the  day  but  to  interpret  it. 

The  new  spirit,  however,  is  above  all  critical  and  analytic  : 
not  creative  and  synthetic  ;  it  brings  the  intellect  rather  than 
the  poetic  imagination  into  play.  And  the  merits  of  the  new 
school  are  to  be  found  in  its  intellectual  force  and  actuality ; 
just  as  its  demerits  lie  in  its  lack  of  deep  imagination,  and 
tendency  to  deal  with  manners  and  superficialities,  rather  than 
with  elemental  things  and  the  larger  issues  of  life. 

Reasons  for  the  Change. — This  change  is  due  partly  to  the 
conditions  of  English  political  and  social  life,  partly  to  the  in- 
fluence of  France,  which  early  in  the  seventeenth  century  threw 
off  the  flowery  traditions  of  the  Italian  Renascence,  and  declared 
itself  in  favour  of  literary  sobriety  and  restraint.  The  French 
poet  Malherbe,  early  in  the  seventeenth  century,  had  pioneered 
the  movement,  and  in  1673  Boileau  counselled  his  countrymen 
to  write  with  "  good  sense  n  and  avoid  Italian  rhapsody. 

So  it  will  be  seen  that  the  new  age  follows  in  the  wake  of 
Jonson,  not  of  Shakespeare.  Such  a  change  was  better  adapted 


THE   AGE   OF   SATIRE  59 

for  a  kind  of  literature  which  aimed  especially  at  clearness, 
conciseness,  and  concentrated  force.  The  less  attractive  aspect 
of  this  ideal  is  seen  in  the  verse  of  the  day  ;  the  finer  and  more 
valuable  aspects  in  its  prose. 

The  object  of  the  leading  writers  of  the  time  was  to  avoid 
extravagance  and  emotionalism.  This  in  many  cases  they  did  so 
successfully  as  to  suppress  altogether  the  emotional  and  basic 
qualities  of  great  poetry,  though  their  method  found  congenial 
expression  in  the  satire. 

Poetry,  starved  of  emotional  sustenance,  had  to  fall  back  on 
epigram,  but  the  "  good  sense  "  ideal  was  an  admirable  one  for 
prose.  For  if  we  examine  the  aims  of  the  prose  writers  of  the 
day,  we  shall  find  that  their  supreme  object  is  to  be  simple  in 
style  and  natural  in  manner. 

"  The  Royal  Society,"  declared  the  Bishop  of  Rochester, "  have 
exacted  from  all  their  members  a  close,  marked,  natural  way  of 
speaking  ;  positive  expressions,  clear  sense,  a  native  easiness, 
bringing  all  things  as  near  the  mathematical  plainness  as  they 
can ;  and  preferring  the  language  of  artisans,  countrymen  and 
merchants  before  that  of  wits  and  scholars." 

This  is  unequivocal  enough,  and  as  we  shall  see,  when  we  con- 
sider the  prose  of  the  age,  the  ideal  here  enunciated  was 
triumphantly  put  into  practice.  In  the  drama  alone,  which  had 
come  to  be  a  courtiers"  game,  is  artificiality  of  prose  upheld. 
There,  for  the  sake  of  amusement,  lucidity  and  directness  are 
made  subsidiary  to  the  brilliance  of  wit  and  stylic  graces. 

1.  POETRY 

One  result  of  the  characteristic  touched  upon  above  is  that 
the  poetry  of  this  new  age  is  marked  by  the  substitution  of 
humour  for  passion. 

Humour  played  a  subsidiary  part  in  Renascence  literature ; 
now  it  is  the  prime  factor,  and  the  form  in  which  it  is  expressed 
is  called  the  satire. 

The  note  of  satire  is  discernible  in  some  of  the  Caroline  singers, 
but  the  two  names  of  greatest  importance  are  the  puritan, 
Andrew  Marvel,  and  anti-puritan,  Samuel  Butler.  Butler  can 
be  effective  enough  at  times,  as  in  the  picture  of  Sir  Hudibras' 
Presbyterian  followers,  who 

"  Call  fire  and  sword  and  desolation, 
A  godly  thorough  Reformation  ; 
Compound  for  sins  they  are  inclined  to, 
By  damning  those  they  have  no  mind  to." 


60     A  HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  first  English  verse  satire  had  been  Gascoigne's  Stecle  Glas 
(1576),  but  it  stands  by  itself,  and  there  was  no  other  satirical 
verse  until  the  time  of  Donne. 

JOHN  DRYDEN  is  the  first  exponent  of  the  movement.  With 
great  intellectual  power  and  a  remarkable  aptitude  for  ex- 
pressing himself  clearly  and  succinctly  in  vigorous  verse,  he 
gave  us  his  great  poem,  Absalom  and  Achitophel  (1681),  after 
a  long  apprenticeship  of  play  writing.  This  satire,  political 
in  trend,  attacked  the  politicians  of  the  day — Shaftesbury 
was  Achitophel,  Monmouth  was  Absalom — with  a  mordant  wit 
that  compelled  attention.  A  later  poetical  work  was  his  Fables, 
Ancient  and  Modern  (1700),  which  show  an  easy  mastery  of 
verse  and  an  acumen  unsurpassed  by  any  of  his  contem- 
poraries. 

The  distinctive  qualities  of  Dryden  as  a  poet  are  ease,  variety 
of  method,  and  vigour. 

In  the  heroic  couplet,  the  decasyllabic  quatrain,  and  in  blank 
verse  he  showed  equal  mastery.  But  it  was  in  the  heroic  couplet 
that  he  achieved  his  strongest  effects.  It  lacks  the  chiselled 
nicety  of  form  and  epigrammatic  brilliance  brought  to  it  by  his 
successor,  Pope ;  but  has  a  richer  and  more  vital  body  about  it ; 
and  as  a  master  of  prosody,  Dryden  ranks  with  Milton  and 
Shakespeare. 

Dryden,  like  Jonson,  was  the  literary  dictator  of  his  age  ; 
presiding  at  Wills*  Coffee  House  in  undisputed  supremacy 
among  the  wits  of  his  time. 

His  successor,  ALEXANDER  POPE,  was  a  man  of  more  feminine 
temperament,  though  equally  imbued  with  the  same  critical 
spirit.  But  whereas  in  Dryden's  case  we  get  broad  massive 
effects,  as  a  rule,  in  Pope  we  have  delicate  filigree  worko  Unlike 
Dryden — unlike  most  other  poets  indeed,  Pope  seems  to  have 
served  no  apprenticeship  to  literature.  His  first  poem,  The  Essay 
in  Criticism  (1711),  is  as  careful  in  phrasing,  as  equally  polished, 
and  as  admirable  in  craftsmanship  as  the  mature  Essay  on  Man 
(1732-34.) 

As  a  satirist,  his  range  is  less  wide  than  Dryden's,  and  he 
cannot  achieve  the  sinewy  ease  of  "  glorious  John."  But  along 
his  own  lines,  admittedly  restricted,  his  wit  is  even  keener,  and 
for  sheer  lightness  of  touch  and  mordant  delicacy  his  "  boudoir  " 
satire.  The  Rape  of  the  Lock  (1712)  is  perfect.  The  artificial 
tone  of  the  age,  the  frivolous  aspect  of  femininity  is  nowhere 
more  exquisitely  pictured  than  in  this  poem.  It  is  the  epic  of 
triflings ;  a  page  torn  from  the  petty,  pleasure-seeking  life  of  a 
fashionable  beauty;  the  mise-en-scene  the  toilet  chamber  an" 


- 


THE  AGE   OF  SATIRE  61 

the  card  table.     In  short,  the  veritable  apotheosis  in  literary 
guise  of  scent,  patches,  and  powder. 

Pope's  success  as  a  writer  naturally  made  for  him  a  number 
of  enemies,  many  of  whom,  obscure  and  penniless  men,  it  would 
have  been  best  to  treat  with  good-natured  silence.  They  were 
too  feeble  to  injure  Pope's  reputation,  and  to  attack  them  scurri- 
lously,  as  he  did  in  the  Dunciad  (1728),  showed  an  unpleasing 
smallness  of  nature.  As  the  rough  but  essentially  good-natured 
Johnson  said,  "  Whom  did  it  concern  to  know  that  one  scribbler 
or  another  was  a  Dunce  ! " 

The  work  of  Pope  is  rich  in  aphorisms  and  apothegms.  There 
is  no  poet,  Shakespeare  excepted,  whose  sayings  have  so  freely 
enriched  our  language.  And  it  is  not  through  any  greatness  of 
imagination  or  freshness  of  insight,  but  by  virtue  of  a  singular 
power,  to  transform  an  ordinary  idea,  a  commonplace  morality, 
into  a  neat  and  pungent  phrase. 

For  instance : 

'«  Worth  makes  the  man,  and  want  of  it  the  fellow, 
The  rest  is  all  but  leather  or  prunella." 

(Essay  on  Man.) 

"  A  little  learning  is  a  dangerous  thing — 
Drink  deep,  or  taste  not  the  Pierian  spring." 

(Essay  on  Criticism.) 

During  the  later  period  of  Pope's  life  a  reaction  started  in 
English  poetry,  which  is  best  considered  when  dealing  with  the 
Romantic  movement  of  the  nineteenth  century  ;  but  during 
the  greater  part  of  Pope's  life  his  lesser  contemporaries  follow 
the  general  lines  initiated  by  Dryden.  Addison's  verse  is  marked 
by  culture  and  grace,  whilst  a  blither  note  is  struck  by  John 
Gay  in  his  Shepkartf*  Week.  Gay,  most  companionable  of  bon 
viveurs,  has  given  us  some  agreeable  sketches  of  London  manners 
and  fashions,  and  his  light-hearted  gift  of  song  finds  expression 
in  Black-Eyed  Susan  and  The  Beggar's  Opera.  Gay  belonged  to 
Pope's  circle  ;  another  associate  is  "  Matt  "  Prior,  a  gay  trifler, 
who  had  the  gift  of  expressing  his  easy  cynicism  in  excellent 
verse.  He  more  nearly  approaches  Pope  than  any  other  con- 
temporary in  the  technical  excellence  of  his  work  and  in 
epigrammatic  power. 

2.  THE  DRAMA 

WILLIAM  CONGREVE,  one  of  the  most  brilliant  dramatists  of 
the  age,  told  Voltaire  on  one  occasion  that  be  wished  to  be 
regarded  not  as  a  literary  man,  but  as  a  gentleman. 


62     A  HISTORY  OF   ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

This  pious  opinion  is  indicative  of  the  tone  of  the  time.  The 
drama  was  no  longer,  as  it  was  in  Elizabethan  days,  an  expres- 
sion of  the  national  life  ;  but  a  picture  of  "  polite  society."  In 
Shakespeare's  day  it  had  been  a  national  recreation,  now  it  was 
merely  a  fashionable  pastime. 

The  influence  of  France  is  more  pronounced  in  the  drama 
than  in  either  the  poetry  or  prose.  French  Romances  .were 
ransacked  for  plots,  and  the  methods  and  situations  of  Corneille, 
Racine,  and  especially  Moliere,  may  be  traced  in  much  of  the 
dramatic  literature  of  the  time.  As  might  be  expected,  the  age 
excelled  in  comedy  rather  than  in  tragedy  ;  the  most  remark- 
able of  the  tragedies  being  by  THOMAS  OTWAY,  The  Orphan  (1680), 
and  Venice  Preserved  (1682).  These  are  rich  in  emotional  situa- 
tions, but  are  not  in  any  way  comparable  with  the  tragedies  of 
the  Elizabethans. 

Dryden,  whose  figure  dominates  here,  as  in  the  realm  of  verse 
and  of  prose,  experimented  in  both  comedy  and  tragedy.  His 
tragedies,  the  Indian  Queen  (1664)  and  the  Indian  Emperor  (pub- 
lished 1667),  popularised  for  fourteen  years  the  rhymed  couplet 
in  drama.  This  was  an  innovation  from  the  French,  and  for  a 
while  put  out  of  favour  the  old  blank  verse.  In  1678,  however, 
he  returned  to  blank  verse  in  his  best  tragedy,  All  for  Love.  In 
addition  to  these  plays  he  is  responsible  for  some  excellent 
comedies ;  for  instance  The  Spanish  Friar  (1681)  and  Amphitryon. 

The  comedy,  however,  developed  further  in  the  hands  of  Sir 
George  Etheredge,  Mrs.  Behn,  and  Shadwell ;  and  was  brought 
to  its  highest  pitch  by  Wycherley,  Congreve,  Vanbrugh,  and 
Farquhar. 

WYCHERLEY,  for  all  his  skill  in  intrigue,  as  illustrated  in  Love 
in  a  Wood  (1672)  and  The  Country  Wife  (1675),  is  inferior  both 
in  invention  and  wit  to  Congreve.  Of  Congreve's  Plays,  the 
best  are  The  Double  Dealer  (1693)  and  The  Way  of  the  World 
(1700) ;  excellent  alike  in  their  acting  qualities  and  their  literary 
power.  Superior  in  wit  and  more  agreeable  in  quality  are  The 
Relapse  (1697)  and  The  Confederacy  (1705)  of  VANBRUGH,  an  archi- 
tect of  Flemish  descent ;  and  The  "Recruiting  Officer  (1706)  and 
Beaux  Stratagem  (1707)  of  FARQUHAR,  the  first  of  the  many 
brilliant  Irishmen  who  have  enriched  our  stage. 

Satiric  comedy  was  followed  during  Queen  Anne's  time  by  a 
period  of  sentimental  comedy,  pioneered  by  Steele.  Another 
type  of  comedy  was  started  in  Gay's  Beggar's  Opera  (1727),  and 
during  the  later  years  of  the  eighteenth  century  sentiment  and 
satire  blended  in  the  fresher  and  sweeter  work  of  GOLDSMITH'S 
Good-Natured  Man  (1768)  and  She  Stoops  to  Conquer  (1773),  while 


THE  AGE   OF   SATIEE  63 

the  witty  metier  of  Congreve  found  a  revivalist  in  Sheridan, 
who  had  much  of  Congreve's  inventive  power  and  Vanbrugh's 
polish,  with  none  of  their  coarseness.  With  SHERIDAN  the  age 
of  the  elder  comedy  of  manners  practically  closes.  His  is  the  last 
great  name  in  the  drama  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

3.  PROSE 

Whenever  intellectual  rather  than  sheerly  imaginative  quali- 
ties dominate  the  literature  of  a  period,  the  prose  invariably 
proves  of  more  commanding  importance  than  the  poetry.  The 
logical  faculty  and  the  gift  of  critical  insight  find  freer  and  more 
suitable  expression  in  language  unfettered  by  rhyme  or  metre. 
Such  is  the  case  here.  The  poetry  is  interesting  of  its  kind, 
but  its  kind  is  extremely  limited  ;  the  drama,  halfway-house 
between  prose  and  verse,  excels  in  comedy  spirit,  but  on  the 
more  serious  side  cannot  compare  in  any  way  with  the  rich  in- 
tensity of  Elizabethan  tragedy :  that  is  to  say,  it  excels  where 
intellect,  not  high  imagination,  is  called  for. 

The  prose,  however,  while  in  certain  directions  it  feels  neces- 
sarily the  lowering  of  the  poetic  temperature,  is  on  the  whole 
on  a  higher  and  firmer  plane  than  it  has  ever  been  before. 
Elizabethan  prose  vacillated  between  the  ultra-ornate  and  the 
ultra-bald ;  occasionally  in  a  Hooker  or  Bacon  it  achieved  an 
austere  grace  or  a  stately  brevity,  but  its  tendency  is  in  the 
direction  of  verbosity  and  elaborate  ornamentation,  and  this 
somewhat  arbitrarily  conditions  its  effectiveness.  So  while  its 
merits  and  charm  are  often  undeniable,  it  lacks  that  directness, 
simplicity,  and  ease  which  are  the  distinguishing  marks  of 
prose' in  an  age  of  Dryden  and  Pope. 

Traces  of  this  new  school  may  be  found  in  the  later  prose  of 
Cowley,  the  sober,  historical  method  of  Clarendon  in  his  History 
of  the  Great  Rebellion  (1707),  and  the  Leviathan  (1651)  of  Hobbes, 
which  discovered  the  new  divine  right  of  the  people,  as  opposed 
to  the  old  theory  of  the  divine  right  of  kings.  Dryden,  how- 
ever, is  the  first  great  exponent  and  pioneer.  His  interest  in 
dramatic  literature  led  him  to  write,  about  1685,  his  well-known 
Essay  on  Dramatic  Poesy,  which,  besides  containing  fine  and  dis- 
criminating criticism  of  the  English  drama,  is  an  ^admirable 
example  of  plain,  direct,  and  vital  prose;  this,  without  be- 
coming vulgar  or  slipshod,  achieves  an  easy  and  intimate 
note  especially  telling,  and  can  on  occasion  reach  dignity  and 
eloquence  without  resource  to  windy  rhetoric. 

In  the  sermons  of  John  Tillotson,  this  plain  sobriety  of 


64f    A  HISTOEY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

language  receives  further  illustration.  One  has  only  to  compare 
the  matter-of-fact  style  of  Tillotson,  for  instance  his  St.  Paul's 
sermon  on  the  Wisdom  of  being  Religious,  with  the  ornate  bril- 
liance of  Jeremy  Taylor  to  appreciate  the  effect  of  the  new 
spirit. 

Two  names  of  greater  literary  importance  are  those  of  Sir 
William  Temple  and  the  Marquis  of  Halifax  (George  Savile). 
Their  work  marks  the  beginnings  of  the  modern  Essay.  Temple, 
husband  of  that  most  delightful  letter-writer,  Dorothy  Osborne, 
best  displays  his  literary  gifts  in  his  Miscellanies.  These  essays 
on  various  subjects — Health,  Gout,  Gardening,  Poetry — are 
written  in  clear,  agreeable,  unaffected  style,  rising  at  times  to 
a  rhythmic  beauty,  as  in  the  Essay  on  Poetry.  They  certainly 
show  that  the  ease  and  intimacy  of  the  New  School  need  not 
be  divorced  from  dignity  and  beauty.  Halifax  was  a  political 
force  as  well  as  a  man  of  letters ;  achieved  fame  with  his 
pamphlet,  The  Character  of  a-  Trimmer,  which  indicates  accurately 
his  own  political  attitude  ;  became  famous  as  a  parliamentary 
speaker  ;  and  in  a  volume  of  Miscellanies  (c.  1688),  which  con- 
tained essays  on  various  subjects  and  a  few  notable  pamphlets, 
showed  grace,  lucidity,  and  terseness.  He  writes  more  like  the 
man  of  the  world  than  Temple,  and  his  aphorisms  have  a  pleasant 
satirical  flavour,  as  that  on  An  Empty  Woman :  "  Such  an  one 
is  seldom  serious  but  with  her  tailor ; "  or  this,  "  You  may  love 
your  children  without  living  in  the  nursery." 

Of  considerable  influence  upon  the  development  of  Elnglish 
prose  is  the  work  of  the  famous  diarist  Pepys — inquisitive, 
childish,  vain,  delightful  Pepys.  Considerable,  for  it  encouraged 
a  more  intimate  and  homely  style.  Of  less  significance  is  the 
Diary  of  his  elder  and  more  staid  contemporary  Evelyn,  and 
the  quaintly  colloquial  Lives  of  Roger  North. 

If  the  ease  and  simplicity  of  the  new  school  of  writers  may 
be  seen  in  Drydeii  and  Pepys,  its  clarity  in  Temple,  its  worldly 
common  sense  in  Halifax,  its  matter-of-factness  is  nowhere 
better  shown  than  in  the  work  of  the  philosopher  John  Locke. 

Just  as  the  trend  of  his  work  signifies  the  apotheosis  of 
practical  common  sense,  so  does  his  style  reflect  the  spirit  of 
common  sense.  It  is  clear,  thoughtful,  to  the  point,  devoid  of 
all  flowers  of  speech,  never  aspiring  to  eloquence,  eschewing 
humour,  pathos,  and  the  graces  dear  to  the  essayist  ;  yet  pre- 
served from  dullness  and  triteness  by  the  dignity  of  his  subject 
and  by  the  intellectual  force  of  the  writer. 

Joseph  Addison  and  Sir  Richard  Steele.  — "  Whoever 
wishes,"  says  Dr.  Johnson,  "  to  attain  an  English  style,  familiar 


THE  AGE  OF  SATIRE  65 

but  not  coarse,  and  elegant  but  not  ostentatious,  must  give 
his  days  and  nights  to  the  volumes  of  Addison."  Posterity 
has  endorsed  the  essential  justice  of  Johnson's  tribute.  The 
more  urbane  aspects  of  eighteenth-century  prose  are  nowhere 
better  exhibited  than  in  the  prose  of  Addison.  Steele's  writ- 

ng  shows  greater  warmth  and  vigour,  but  for  delicate  charm 

'  .ddison  excels. 
In  1709  Steele  started  The  Tatler,  which  inaugurated  a  fresh 

poch  in  the  development  of  prose. 
We  are  approaching  now  the  existence  in  London  of  a  defi- 

ite  literary  class.     The  man  of  letters  in  the  ages  preceding 

Depended  for  his  livelihood  upon  a  patron. 

Patronage  still  exists,  and  Pope  made  his  fortune  by  what 
las  been  called  "a  kind  of  joint-stock  patronage,"  where  the 

ristocratic  patron  found  it  convenient  to  induce  his  friends 

o  subscribe  towards  the  maintenance  of  the  poet.     But  the 

Ider  system  was  dying  out. 
At   first  the  poet  or   the  pamphleteer  attaches  himself  to 

ome   influential   Minister,  using   his  pen   on  behalf   of   this 

entleman's  cause.     Afterwards,  when  the  Minister  found  he 

ould  get  his  work  done  more  cheaply  than  by  hiring  men  of 

aste,  the  literary  man  gets  thrown  upon  the  suffrages  of  a 

ublic  then  rising  into  existence. 
The  coffee-house,  and  later  the  clubs,  were  centres  around 

hich   radiated   the   thoughtful   and   intelligent :   politicians, 
awyers,  clergymen,  literary  men,  met  at  these  places  and  dis- 

ussed  the  problems  of    the  hour.     Thus  the  author  and  his 

ublic  were  forced  into  intimate  proximity.     If  you  admired  a 
nan's  writings  you  hastened  to  his  coffee-house,  where   you 

flight  hear  him  holding  forth  to  his  own  special  friends.     Per- 

aps  you  brought  with  you  a  companion.     And  thus  the  circle 

f  discipleship  grew. 
What   the  tavern  had  been  to  the   sixteenth   century,  the 

offee-house  was  to  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth.    It  reached 

be  height  of  its  popularity  in  the  eighteenth,  and  before  its 

Lose  had  passed  into  practical  oblivion. 
The   well-known   writers  of   the   day  congregated  at  these 

laces  and.  talked  to  their  friends — not  unfrequently  at  them. 

t  was  at  a  coffee-house  that  Pope  found  Dry  den ;  and  here  it 

-as   that   Addison  discoursed  to  a  select  circle,  and  Johnson 

elivered  many  of  his  sententious  periods. 
The  Else  of  Journalism.— The  earliest  newspapers  were 

oluminous  concerns.     The  first  circulating  in  London  was  the 

Tercurius  Gallobelgicus,  a  bound  book  of  625  pages,  written  in 


66     A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Latin  and  printed  at  Cologne.  It  was  concerned  with  the 
story  of  the  German  Wars.  Gradually  the  identification  of  a 
particular  paper  with  a  definite  political  or  social  philosophy 
was  possible,  and  in  1695  the  Censorship  of  the  Press  was 
abolished  and  the  publication  of  a  modern  newspaper  became 
practicable. 

The  Tatler  started  by  detailing  news  mingled  with  essays 
and  stories  and  dramatic  criticism.  It  was  through  the  influ- 
ence of  Addison  that  the  essay  became  the  most  important 
constituent. 

January  2,  1711,  saw  the  death  of  The  Tatler,  and  the  fol- 
lowing March  1,  the  birth  of  The  Spectator.  It  ran  for  555 
numbers,  continuing  until  December  6, 1712.  The  essay,  which 
had  proved  so  great  a  success  in  The  Tatler,  became  the  one  in- 
gredient of  The  Spectator.  The  sobriety  and  moderation  dis- 
played by  the  writers,  the  humour,  the  genial  moralising,  these 
qualities  made  for  the  stupendous  success  of  the  Journal. 

The  Essays  of  Addison  mirror  the  life  of  the  time  in  much 
the  same  way  as  did  Chaucer's  Canterbury  Tales.  We  come 
across  the  needy  versifier,  Ned  Softly,  frequenting  the  coffee- 
house to  find  an  audience  for  his  verses  ;  the  happy-go-lucky 
vagrant  Will  Wimble  ;  Will  Honeycomb  ;  the  elderly  Tom  Rake, 
and  most  vital  and  lovable  of  all,  the  genial  country  squire, 
Sir  Roger  de  Coverley.  In  fact  here  in  its  pictures  of  the  Town 
are  all  the  materials  of  the  modern  Novel  of  social  life. 

Daniel  Defoe. — To  many  people  Defoe  is  chiefly  known  as 
the  author  of  Robinson  Crusoe  (1719),  and  a  few  other  tales 
dealing  with  low  life.  And  yet,  fiction  was  merely  an  incident 
in  Defoe's  astoundingly  varied  career.  He  was  fifty-eight  when 
he  wrote  Robinson  Crusoe,  and  before  that  time  he  had  been — a 
merchant,  a  manufacturer,  a  satirist,  a  public  official,  and  an 
editor. 

In  1706  appeared  The  True  Relation  of  the  Apparition  of  one 
Mrs.  Veal,  and  here  he  gave  proof  of  his  power  to  create  that 
illusion  of  reality  which  is  the  mainspring  of  successful  fiction, 
and  which  he  employed  with  finer  results  later  on  in  Robinson 
Crusoe  (1719)  and  subsequent  experiments  in  fiction — that  viva- 
cious portrait  of  a  pirate,  Captain  Singleton  (1720),  Moll  Flanders, 
(1721),  Colonel  Jack  (1722),  and  Roxana  (1724),  dealing  with 
the  shadier  side  of  London  life  ;  and  the  admirably  realistic 
make-believe  Journal  of  the  Plague  Year  (1722). 

His  work  is  characterised  by  an  intensely  concrete  imagina- 
tion, and  a  remarkable  aptitude  for  manipulating  detail.  What 
makes  Robinson  Crusoe  so  remarkable  a  book  is  the  fine  touch 


THE  AGE  OF  SATIEE  67 

of  precision  which  he  imparts  to  the  story  by  his  clear,  matter 
of-fact  manner. 

Why  do  boys  take  Robinson  Crusoe  so  warmly  to  their  hearts  ? 
Because  he  gives  exactly  those  matters  which  the  boy  is  curious 
about — i.e.  how  many  biscuits  he  ate,  how  he  built  the  raft, 
what  the  parrot  talked  about.  Nor  are  the  details  overdone. 
Defoe  could  make  an  inventory  as  appetising  as  Scott  could  an 
adventure.  His  power  of  giving  dramatic  value  to  detail  is 
well  seen  in  the  Journal  of  the  Plague  Year — e.g.  where  the  piper 
is  carried  off  in  the  dead-cart. 

Underlying  the  fiction  and  pamphlets  alike  there  is  a  clear, 
satirical  purpose — to  expose  the  pretences  and  social  ills  of 
the  day.  In  his  pictures  of  low  life  he  draws  attention  to  the 
terrible  effect  of  bad  environment,  and  in  such  a  pamphlet  as 
Poor  Man's  Plea  (c.  1698),  he  attacked  with  a  vigour  which 
Mr.  Blatchford  could  not  have  bettered,  the  injustice  of  the 
laws  against  immorality,  and  the  distinction  made  between  the 
treatment  of  rich  and  poor. 

As  a  writer  he  helped  to  kill  the  high-falutin  romance,  so 
long  a  favourite ;  and  while  his  lack  of  imaginative  depth  and 
tenderness  give  pronounced  limitations  to  his  work,  and  his 
didacticism  is  often  oppressive,  yet  with  obvious  failings  he 
combines  considerable  and  often  underrated  merits.  He  was 
fair-minded  and  good-hearted,  no  small  matter  in  those  days ; 
a  good  fighter,  who  fought  honestly  in  the  open,  and  if  his 
ideals  were  not  very  inspiring,  he  never  pretended  they  were  : 
a  sincere,  just,  kindly,  unaffected  man. 

JONATHAN  SWIFT  was  a  keen  and  passionate  political  partisan, 
who  wrote  first  for  the  Whigs,  afterwards  for  the  Tories.  In 
an  age  of  famous  and  brilliant  pamphleteers  he  is  second  to 
none.  But  he  is  more  even  than  this  ;  he  is  one  of  the  greatest 
satirists  in  English  liter  at  ure»  Political  and  social  life  are 
thrown  into  the  crucible  of  his  wrath,  and  there  emerged — the 
mocking  allegory,  Gulliver's  Travels. 

His  first  prose  piece,  The  Dissensions  of  Athens  and  Rome 
(1701)  (with  due  application  to  current  politics),  has  no  special 
merits.  In  the  Battle  of  the  Books  (1704)  he  is  clear,  brilliant, 
and  apposite  ;  and  in  Tlie  Tale  of  a  Tub1  (1704)  his  satirical 
power  is  at  its  height. 

Gulliver's  Travels  (1726)  is  richer  in  content  and  wider  in  its 
appeal,  and  in  Drapier's  Letters  (1724)  (with  reference  to  the 
coinage);  the  Polite  Conversation  (1738)  (concerning  the  ways 
of  "  good  "  society)  ;  and  Directions  to  Servants  (a  side  picture  on 

1  In  olden  times  a  discursive  story  was  called  the  "  Tale  of  a  Tub." 


63     A   HISTORY   OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

the  manners  of  the  age),  we  have  admirable  illustrations  of  his 
pungent  wit  and  stinging  irony. 

What  is  the  special  quality  of  Swift's  satire,  and  how  does  it 
differ  from  his  contemporaries  ? 

In  certain  respects  Swift  resembles  Defoe.  There  is  direct 
vigour  and  matter-of-factness  about  his  satire,  and  like  Defoe, 
he  uses  irony  to  drive  home  a  point.  Less  wide  in  his  range 
than  Defoe,  and  more  savage  in  his  methods,  he  sounds  pro- 
founder  depths,  and  exhibits  a  more  cosmic  humour  than  his 
contemporary.  The  humour  is  often  as  bitter  as  gall,  but 
its  power  and  appositeness  are  beyond  question.  Tragedy  is 
written  across  Swift's  life.  His  intellectual  audacity  stood  in 
his  own  pathway.  There  could  be  no  preferment  for  the 
Churchman  who  so  mercilessly  ridiculed  theology  in  The  Tale 
of  a  Tub  ;  no  happiness  for  a  lover  so  capricious  and  incalculable 
as  he  ;  no  content  for  a  man  who,  in  an  age  when  the  emotional 
life  was  kept  so  sternly  subjected,  looked  out  upon  life  with 
such  fierce  and  passionate  intensity  of  feeling.  He  is  like  a 
man  born  out  of  due  time  ;  and  though  he  stands  alone  among 
the  men  of  his  age,  unable  to  endure  the  easy  cynicism  of  men 
like  G-ay,  who  held  life  to  be  a  jest,  or  to  follow  the  genial 
humanity  of  Steele  and  graceful  urbanities  of  Addison,  yet  he 
was  not  great  enough  to  rise  above  them.  On  the  critical  side 
he  is  supremely  great ;  none  could  despise  the  world  and 
mankind  with  such  brilliant  fury.  But  he  had  no  alternative  ; 
nothing  to  put  in  the  place  of  material  ambition.  He  is  at 
heart  as  worldly  as  Defoe ;  and  it  is  part  of  his  tragedy  that 
he  recognises  the  fact. 

Among  lesser  names  of  the  time,  as  makers  of  prose,  are 
Dr.  John  Arbuthnot,  the  great-hearted  friend  of  Swift,  of  whom 
Swift  said,  "  If  the  world  had  but  a  dozen  Arbuthnots  in  it, 
I  would  burn  my  travels."  He  was  a  noted  physician,  a  ripe 
scholar,  a  wit  who  would  hold  his  own  with  the  best  of  his 
contemporaries.  As  a  writer  he  lacked  the  integrity  and 
originality  of  the  great  prose  men  ;  followed  frankly  the 
literary  methods  of  Swift,  avoiding  the  bitterness,  and  did 
much  to  popularise  his  master  by  drawing  attention  to  his 
genius.  Bolingbroke,  a  brilliant  political  and  social  figure  in  his 
own  age,  has  little  literary  significance  to-day. 

He  had  a  nimble  wit  and  a  facile  pen,  but  was  fundamentally 
insincere,  and  his  flashy  talent  was  not  considerable  enough 
to  impart  vitality  to  his  writing.  Sharply  contrasting  with 
him  is  the  figure  of  the  Irishman,  GEORGE  BERKELEY,  a  man  of 
subtle  intellect  and  noble  character.  His  chief  works  are 


THE  AGE   OF   SENSE  AND   SENSIBILITY    69 

of  Vision  (1709),  The  Principles  of  Human  Knowledge 
(1710),  and  Dialogues  between  Hylas  and  Philonous  (1713)  (in 
which  the  materialist  and  idealist  standpoint  are  discussed), 
Alciphron,  or  the  Minute  Philosopher  (1732),  in  which  his  meta- 
physics is  stated  with  rare  dialectical  skill,  and  in  a  singularly 
lucid  and  graceful  style.  According  to  Pope,  Berkeley  had 
been  vouchsafed  "every  virtue  under  heaven";  and  although 
his  theory  that  matter  is  illusory,  and  that  what  we  see  and 
handle  is  merely  symbolic  of  spiritual  realities,  met  with  a  good 
deal  of  ridicule  from  the  "  common-sense  "  school  of  the  day, 
yet  no  man  was  better  praised  or  in  greater  favour  than  he. 
Few  thinkers  indeed  have  had  such  command  of  literary  ex- 
pression. In  his  moral  ideas  he  curiously  foreshadows  much 
of  the  modern  school  of  economics — i.e.  "Whether  the  four 
elements  and  man's  labour  therein  be  not  the  true  source  of 
wealth."  "Whether  pictures  and  statues  are  not  in  fact  so 
much  treasure." 

If  Berkeley  anticipates  the  modern  school  of  economists,  so 
did  Mandeville  in  his  Fable  of  the  Bees  (1714)  anticipate  the  criti- 
cism of  political  society,  which  started  with  Godwin  and  still 
continues  in  the  hands  of  Edward  Carpenter  and  Bernard  Shaw. 

The  Fable  of  the  Bees  is  partly  in  verse,  partly  in  prose,  and 
has  as  its  thesis  the  innate  corruptness  of  modern  civilisation. 


IV 

THE  AGE  OF  SENSE  AND   SENSIBILITY  (c.   1740-80) 
Johnson  and  the  Eighteenth  Century  Novelists 

1.  DR.  JOHNSON  AND  HIS  CIRCLE 

Characteristics  of  the  later  Eighteenth  Century. — There 
is  a  real  difference  between  the  psychological  atmosphere  of 
Dryden's  day  and  that  of  Johnson's.  Differences  of  this  kind 
are  not  to  be  sharply  denned  by  chronological  means,  for  the 
satirical  brilliance  that  came  into  vogue  with  the  Restoration 
lasted  on  until  the  publication  of  the  Dunciad  (1728).  Mean- 
while, however,  during  the  later  years  of  Pope,  a  more  sober 
habit  of  mind  began  to  prevail,  and  sensibility,  so  long  ruled 
out  of  literature,  broke  the  literary  barriers  with  a  vengeance. 

Four  years  before  the  death  of  Pope,  a  generation  that  had 
acclaimed  his  polished  unemotional  verse,  went  mad  over  the 
riotous  sentimentality  of  Richardson's  Pamela  (1740). 


70     A   HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

Good  Sense  plus  greater  Sensibility  —  e.g.  Pope  and 
Johnson. — Good  sense  is  as  characteristic  of  Dryden  as  of 
Johnson.  Yet  we  are  conscious  of  some  change.  What  is  it  ? 
It  is  the  advent  of  sensibility — an  emotional  sensitiveness,  that 
soon  found  expression  in  literature,  and  gradually  merged  into 
the  larger  and  deeper  imaginative  life  of  the  Romantic  Revival. 

One  of  the  commonplaces  of  literary  criticism  is  an  insist- 
ence on  the  matter-of-fact,  unemotional  character  of  the  eight- 
eenth century,  for  three-quarters  at  any  rate  of  its  span.  The 
generalisation  has  this  element  of  truth  in  it,  that  nearly  all 
the  verse,  and  much  of  the  drama  is,  as  we  have  seen,  intellec- 
tual ^rather  than  emotional,  critical  rather  than  imaginative, 
satirical  rather  than  passionate.  But  it  was,  after  all,  only  a 
literary  convention  which  held  the  field  for  a  while. 

The  English  people  were  no  less  emotional  or  sentimental  in 
Pope's  day  than  they  were  in  Shelley's  or  in  Shakespeare's. 

Dr.  Johnson. — Samuel  Johnson  more  than  any  other  figure 
sums  up  in  his  person  the  general  characteristics  of  his  time  ; 
its  vigorous  didacticism  and  awakened  sensibility.  Dr.  Johnson 
lives  rather  as  a  personality  than  as  an  author,  for  despite  the 
sound  criticism  that  scintillates  from  time  to  time  in  the 
ponderous  Lives  of  the  Poets  (1779-81),  the  flashes  of  beauty 
in  his  novel  Rasselas  (1759),  and  the  rough  genial  humour  that 
illuminates  his  Essay  work  in  the  Idler  and  Rambler,  he  ranks 
as  a  writer  on  a  lower  level  than  the  majority  of  the  men  who 
form  his  circle,  in  every  department  which  he  essayed  ;  his 
prose  has  neither  the  vitality  of  Fielding,  the  charm  of  Gold- 
smith, the  splendour  of  Gibbon,  or  the  eloquence  of  Burke. 
Yet  as  a  personality  he  surmounts  them  all,  and  was  looked 
upon  as  the  guide  and  leader  of  his  brilliant  coterie. 

His  Characteristics :  Sense,  Tenderness,  Humour, 
Humanity. — Without  the  illuminating  discipleship  of  Boswell, 
it  would  be  hard  for  us  to  account  for  this  fact,  but  his  biographer 
has  supplied  the  key.  And  we  realise  to-day  that  the  best  part 
of  Johnson  never  found  literary  expression,  but  lives  in  his 
table-talk.  His  strong  sense,  his  unfailing  tenderness,  his 
rough,  contrary  but  wholesome  humour  ; — in  short,  the  sturdy 
humanity  of  the  burly  Dictator ;  these  are  the  things  which 
make  Johnson's  name  alive  to-day. 

Few  better  things  were  said  of  him  than  the  grateful  tribute 
of  Goldsmith  :  "  He  has  nothing  of  him  of  the  bear  but  the 
skin." 

Goldsmith  compared  with  Johnson. — Oliver  Goldsmith 
presents  a  striking  contrast  both  in  his  person  and  work.  As 


THE  AGE  OF  SENSE  AND  SENSIBILITY    71 

a  personality,  his  quaint,  inconsequential  manner  and  naive 
simplicity — which  not  even  the  harsh  school  of  experience 
could  alter — compare  strongly  with  Johnson's  authoritative 
dogmatism  and  worldly  wisdom.  As  a  writer,  what  could  be 
more  unlike  the  massive  pomposity  of  Johnson  than  the  clear, 
delicate,  and  limpid  style  of  Goldsmith  ?  Working  always  under 
heavy  disabilities,  he  has  left  us  The  Vicar  of  Wakefield  (1766), 
a  novel  which,  of  its  kind?  has  become  a  classic ;  a  body  of 
verse,  notably  The  Traveller  (1764),  and  The  Deserted  Village 
(1770),  of  great  sweetness  and  charm  ;  two  comedies,  The  Good- 
Naturd  Man  (1768)  and  She  Stoops  to  Conquer  (1773),  one  of 
which  still  holds  the  stage ;  and  Essays,  after  the  Spectator 
fashion,  of  the  highest  quality.  He  is  a  poet  of  talent :  a 
prose  writer  of  genius.  The  Essays  in  The  Citizen  of  the  World 
show  a  play  of  fancy  and  a  whimsical  humour  shot  with  pathos, 
that  place  them  beside  the  best  work  of  Leigh  Hunt,  and  all 
but  the  best  work  of  "  Elia." 

Edmund  Burke. — Edmund  Burke  is  another  of  the  Johnson 
circle,  and  like  his  fellow-countryman.  Goldsmith,  came  over 
also  from  Ireland  to  try  his  fortune  in  London.  There  is  a 
warmth  and  colour  about  his  style,  which  we  shall  not  find 
in  any  other  prose-man  of  the  day  ;  though  it  has  to  be 
remembered  that  he  was  an  orator  first,  and  rhetorical  methods 
conditioned  his  prose  from  first  to  last.  His  study  in 
jestheticism,  Inquiry  into  the  Origin  of  our  Ideas  of  the  Sublime 
and  Beautiful,  secured  him  in  1757  an  introduction  to  Johnson. 
This  and  his  On  Causes  of  the  Present  Discontents  (1770)  are  his 
most  important  contributions  to  literature. 

Historians:  Hume,  Robertson,  and  Gibbon. — Historical 
writing  is  raised  into  literary  importance  by  David^  Hume, 
Dr.  Robertson,  and  Edward  Gibbon.  Of  these  three,  Gibbon  is 
unquestionably  the  greatest,  for  although  in  common  with  the 
others  he  is  lacking  in  sympathetic  insight,  he  has  greater 
imaginative  force  and  a  more  considerable  knowledge.  His 
monumental  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  (1776-88), 
if  wanting  in  the  flexibility  and  warmth  which  we  find  in 
Burke,  is  at  its  best  eloquent  and  impressive. 

Philosophy  and  Social  PoliticSo — In  the  realm  of  Philosophy 
and  Social  Politics  we  have  Hume's  Treatises  on  Human  Nature 
(1739),  in  which,  following  Locke,  he  limits  knowledge  to 
phenomena  cognisable  by  experience ;  and  Adam  Smith's 
Wealth  of  Nations  (1776),  postulating  labour  as  the  source  of 
wealth.  The  Evangelical  Revival  and  the  work  of  Wesley  and 
Whitefidd  gave  literary  significance  to  some  of  the  devotional 


72     A  HISTORY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

writings  of  the  time,  notably  the  Sermons  of  Dr.  Chalmers,  but 
on  the  whole  the  philosopher  and  the  theologian  of  the 
eighteenth  century  show  but  little  grace  of  style  or  charm  of 
manner. 

In  the  miscellaneous  literature  of  the  day  mention  must  be 
made  of  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds'  pleasant  Discourses  on  Painting 
(1769-90),  and  the  light,  amusing  touch  of  Horace  Walpole's 
Letters. 

2.  THE  NOVEL 

The  sensibility  that  marked  the  later  years  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  though  amply  reflected  in  Johnson's  personality, 
finds  its  fullest  literary  expression  in  the  fiction  that  sprang 
of  a  sudden  into  popularity.  The  common-sense  ideal  haunts 
the  novel  no  less  than  the  essay,  and  is  especially  emphasized 
in  Fielding's  outlook  on  life  ;  but  there  are  many  indications 
to  show  a  rising  in  the  temperature  of  our  emotional  and 
imaginative  life. 

Despite  the  promising  start  made  by  prose  fiction  in  the 
sixteenth  century,  the  stir  of  new  and  distracting  social 
interests  in  the  seventeenth  proved  unfavourable  to  the 
development  of  the  novel. 

But  the  work  of  the  Diarists,  of  John  Bunyan's  Allegories, 
the  rise  of  English  Journalism — all  these  literary  forms  which 
fostered  and  encouraged  pictures  of  current  life  and  manners, 
helped  forward  the  novel.  And  when  the  Drama  began  to 
decline  in  popularity,  the  Novel  stepped  into  its  place. 

To  that  enterprising  journalist,  Defoe,  must  be  accorded 
the  honour  of  pioneering  the  new  fiction  of  contemporary 
actualities.  Defoe's  fiction,  however,  had  two  great  defects — 
lack  of  sentiment  and  lack  of  humour.  The  new  school  of 
novelists  speedily  made  those  deficiencies. 

Richardson  and  the  Sentimental  Note. — Samuel  Richard- 
son followed  Defoe  in  dealing  with  contemporary  life,  but 
suffused  his  scenes  with  a  sentimental  pathos  which  promptly 
took  the  town.  This  tubby,  mild-mannered  little  man,  who 
lived  the  life  of  an  industrious  tradesman,  with  less  stuff  of 
adventure  in  the  whole  of  his  career  than  Defoe  ha'd  in  a  few 
months,  became  the  idol  of  the  hour,  and  moved  in  an  adoring 
crowd  of  sobbing  female  worshippers.  How  account  for  his 
amazing  popularity  ? 

Largely,  because  he  had  a  ready  instinct  for  woman's  ways. 
From  early  days  he  had  studied  the  sex,  and  had  once  written 
love  letters  for  some  young  women  ;  and  in  an  age  when 


THE  AGE   OF   SENSE  AND   SENSIBILITY     73 

sentiment  had  been  shut  outside  the  garden  of  poesy,  and 
eschewed  so  rigorously  in  much  of  the  prose,  its  sudden  en- 
trance into  fiction  was  hailed  by  many  with  delight.  It  is  not 
easy  to  find  the  virtue  in  Pamela,  or  Virtue  Rewarded  (1740), 
but  its  sentimentality  brims  over,  and  mawkish  as  it  may 
seem  to  the  modern  reader,  it  was  avidly  swallowed  by  the 
readers  of  the  day. 

Richardson  followed  this  up  by  a  more  legitimate  appeal  to 
the  emotions  in  Clarissa  Harlowe  (1747).  So  firm  an  affeefcion 
did  Clarissa  and  her  sorrows  evoke,  that  Colley  Gibber  swore 
if  she  should  die  he  would  no  longer  believe  in  Providence. 
His  last  novel,  Sir  Charles  Grandison  (1754),  is  of  extraordinary 
length,  even  in  an  age  of  lengthy  fiction  ;  but  despite  this,  its 
utter  lack  of  humour,  and  the  priggishness  of  the  eighteenth- 
century  egoist,  Sir  Charles,  it  contains  some  skilful  analysis 
of  character.  Sentimental  analysis  is  a  commonplace  in  modern 
fiction.  But  Richardson  was  its  first  exponent.  Prolix  and 
artificial  to  a  degree,  in  style,  the  discerning  reader  will 
realise  genuine  observation  and  real  emotional  power  beneath 
all  the  verbiage  and  egregious  sentimentalities.  And  therein 
lies  the  secret  of  his  power.  Sterne,  Fanny  Burney,  and  even 
Jane  Austen  show  traces  of  his  influence  ;  while  Diderot  and 
De  Musset  in  France,  and  Goethe  in  Germany,  testify  to  his 
power. 

Fielding  and  the  Humorous  Note. — If  to  Richardson  we 
owe  the  note  of  sentiment,  dashing  and  versatile  Henry 
Fielding  may  claim  to  have  imported  the  note  of  humour. 
Starting  as  a  parodist  of  Richardson  in  his  Joseph  Andrewes 
(1742),  he  soon  discovered  his  own  powers  in  Tom  Jones  (1749), 
a  novel  as  superior  in  constructive  power  to  Richardson's  as 
it  is  in  its  genial  and  tolerant  outlook  on  life.  In  analytical 
force  and  subtlety  he  is  inferior  to  his  contemporary,  but  his 
was  the  fresher  and  more  vigorous  mind.  He  attempted  to 
paint  a  faithful  picture  of  human  life  as  he  saw  it,  and  in 
reproducing  the  broad  features  of  town  and  country  life  in  the 
mid-eighteenth  century  he  is  unsurpassed. 

Fielding's  full-blooded  humour  and  his  inventive  faculty  are 
best  shown  in  his  two  early  novels.  In  his  last,  Amelia  (1751), 
the  underlying  tenderness  in  his  nature  finds  ampler  outlet. 
Here,  also,  his  powers  of  satire  are  more  finely  and  keenly  dis- 
played. None  of  his  novels  so  fully  exhibit  his  satiric  genius, 
however,  as  does  his  life  of  that  arch  rogue,  Jonathan  Wild 
(1743). 

While  Richardson  and  Fielding  were  at  the  height  of  their 


74     A   HISTOEY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

fame,  Tobias  Smollett  published  his  first  novel,  Roderick  Random 
(1748).  Like  Fielding,  he  was  considerably  influenced  in  the 
form  of  his  work  by  the  Spanish  picaresque  novel. 

In  constructive  power,  Smollett  falls  far  behind  Fielding ;  but 
in  descriptive  power  he  is  fully  as  vital  and  arresting.  In 
experience  of  life,  Smollett  had  the  advantage.  English  rural 
society,  and  aristocratic  society,  are  better  known  to  Fielding  ; 
but  Smollett's  years  in  Scotland  and  his  knowledge  of  the 
"nautical  multitude,"  provided  him  with  material  to  which 
Fielding  could  lay  no  claim.  In  his  own  day  he  was  vastly 
popular,  and  Scott  put  him  on  a  level  with  Fielding.  In  our  own 
day  his  reputation  has  certainly  declined,  probably  because  of 
the  more  limited  range  of  his  appeal.  As  a  literary  artist  he 
is,  on  the  whole,  inferior  to  Richardson,  Fielding,  Sterne,  and 
Goldsmith.  But  for  infectious  high  spirits,  and  in  the  depic- 
tion of  oddities,  he  has  no  equal  save  Dickens.  As  for  his 
sea  worthies,  they  are  inimitable — over-coloured  maybe,  but 
abounding  in  life  and  prodigal  in  comic  invention. 

Tom  Bowling  in  Roderick  Random,  and  Hawser  Trunnion  in 
Peregrine  Pickle,  to  say  nothing  of  Hatchway  and  Pipes,  have 
the  salt  savour  of  the  sea  about  them. 

His  best  book  is  Humphry^  Clinker  (1771).  Lacking  the  animal 
spirits  of  its  predecessors,  it  is  the  richest  in  humorous  obser- 
vation of  character. 

Laurence  Sterne  revives  the  sentimental  art  again,  though 
with  a  lighter  touch. 

Symmetry  and  cohesion  are  flung  to  the  winds. 

Sterne  and  the  Note  of  Subtlety.— There  is  no  more  chaotic 
novel  in  literature  than  Tristram  Shandy  (1760) ;  and  A  Senti- 
mental Journey  (1768)  is  little  better.  But  the  leisurely  Tristram 
Shandy  is  one  long  parenthesis  ;  a  colossal  aside.  Yet  the  chaos 
is  intentional,  the  incoherence  deliberate.  It  is  a  trick  to 
arrest  the  reader,  and  certainly  succeeds.  Sterne's  frank  and 
impudent  neglect  of  form — his  buttonholing  pose ;  his  incon- 
sequential confidences,  are  undeniably  attractive  ;  for  behind  it 
all  there  is  the  humorist  of  fine  sensibility,  the  subtle  artist. 

Here  is  a  fair  specimen  of  Sterne's  humour : 

"  It  was  a  consuming  vexation  to  my  father,  that  my  mother  never 
asked  the  meaning  of  a  thing  she  did  not  understand.  '  That  she  is 
not  a  woman  of  science,'  my  father  would  say,  '  is  her  misfortune  ; 
but  she  might  ask  a  question.'  My  mother  never  did.  In  short, 
she  went  out  of  the  world,  at  last,  without  knowing  whether  it  turned 
round  or  stood  still.  My  father  had  officiously  told  her  above  a 
thousand  times  which  way  it  was,  but  she  always  forgot." 


THE  AGE   OF  SENSE  AND   SENSIBILITY     75 

This  sly,  evasive  humour  is  quite  other  than  the  breezy 
robustiousness  of  Fielding  or  the  exuberant  extravagance  of 
Smollett,  while  the  creation  of  Uncle  Toby  and  the  wonderful 
little  scene  with  the  Ass  of  Lyons,  are  in  themselves  sufficient 
to  vindicate  Sterne's  genuine  though  fitful  faculty  for  pathos. 

Goldsmith.— The  Idyllic  Note.— Goldsmith's  Vicar  of 
Wakefield  (1766)  is  in  very  different  manner.  Goldsmith 
succeeds  by  virtue  of  his  exquisitely  lucid  style  and  simple 
humanity. 

The  Vicar  triumphs  not  because  of  any  special  outstanding 
quality — Goldsmith  derives  something  from  each  of  his  pre- 
decessors— but  through  its  pervasive  idyllic  charm. 

The  Women  Novelists. — Frances  Burney's  Evelina  (1778) 
gives  us  a  picture  of  fashionable  eighteenth-century  life  from 
the  woman's  point  of  view.  And  in  its  more  limited  way, 
Evelina  is  as  typical  of  its  time  as  is  Tom  Jones. 

Miss  Burney  may  be  remembered,  moreover,  as  the  first 
woman  novelist  of  any  considerable  distinction. 

Mrs.  Radcliffe  and  others  who  wrote  fiction  during  the  closing 
years  of  the  century  belong  in  style  and  treatment  to  the 
next  age.  They  were  forerunners  of  the  Romantic  movement. 
And  the  last  woman  writer  to  carry  on  the  traditions  of  the 
eighteenth  century  is  Scott's  youthful  contemporary,  JANE 
AUSTEN.  Living  during  the  early  years  of  the  Romantic  move- 
ment, she  was  completely  untouched  by  any  side  of  it.  More 
truly  even  than  Frances  Burney  is  she  the  feminine  contem- 
porary of  Fielding ;  and  her  strong  sense  of  humour  kept  her 
from  the  sentimental  absurdities  that  abound  in  the  eighteenth- 
century  novelists.  Faithful  observation,  personal  detachment 
from  her  subject  and  a  delicate  sense  of  ironic  comedy  are  Jane 
Austen's  chief  characteristics  as  a  writer  The  daughter  of  a 
country  rector,  and  brought  up  in  the  quiet  backwater  of  a 
small  provincial  town,  Steventon  in  Hants,  her  life  was  singu- 
larly uneventful.  For  most  of  her  time  she  lived  at  home; 
her  longest  journey  was  to  Bath,  her  most  exciting  experience, 
probably,  private  theatricals.  No  serious  love  attachment  is 
gathered  about  her ;  she  was  a  good  daughter  and  sister ;  a 
writer  from  sheer  love  of  writing.  Like  Charlotte  Bronte  she 
was  a  story-teller  from  a  child.  In  person  tall  and  graceful, 
with  good  features  and  curly  brown  hair;  in  disposition- 
serene,  gentle,  unemotional,  and  drily  humorous.  She  wrote 
seven  novels,  Pride  and  Prejudice  (1813),  Northanger  Abbey 
(1798),  Sense  and  Sensibility  (1811),  Mansfield  Park,  Emma,  and 
Persuasion  (1814-16). 


76     A   HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

One,  Lady  Susan,  was  never  published.  There  was  also  a 
fragment,  TJie  Watsons,  never  finished.  The  material  at  her 
hand  was  not  promising ;  the  gossip  and  scandal  of  a  little 
country  town,  where  tea-time  was  a  crisis  in  one's  life,  and 
a  subscription  ball  a  turning-point  in  one's  career ;  when 
adventure  expresses  itself  in  country  walks  (usually  with  a 
chaperon),  and  tragedy  hinged  upon  the  non-appearance  of 
that  agreeable  young  man  who  danced  so  well  at  the  ball. 
And  yet  while  no  writer  is  freer  from  dullness)  no  story-teller 
impresses  us  with  such  a  sense  of  ease  and  delicate  tact  as 
she.  She  knew  her  limitations,  and  never  went  outside  them. 
And  within  her  narrow  limits  she  is  supreme.  She  made  of 
tattle  a  fine  art.  Tennyson  expressed  the  sentiments  of  many 
when  he  said  at  Lyme  Regis,  "  Don't  talk  to  me  of  the  Duke 
of  Monmouth !  Show  me  where  Louisa  Musgrove  felL" 


THE   EOMANTIC   REVIVAL   (c.    1780-1832) 

Introduction. — No  label  can  accurately  describe  a  period  so 
rich  and  varied  in  achievement  as  the  fifty  years  following  the 
death  of  Johnson.  Yet,  while  allowing  for  those  distinctive 
qualities  that  a  genius  gives  to;  rather  than  takes  from  an  age, 
there  will  be  found  certain  underlying  characteristics  linking 
the  writers  of  the  period  together  in  a  masonic  brotherhood. 

What  is  Romanticism  ?  What  is  this  emotional  tide  which 
ebbs  and  flows  throughout  literary  history;  reaching  high- 
water  mark  in  the  age  of  Shakespeare  and  of  Wordsworth, 
yet  taking  on  so  varying  a  complexion  in  the  work,  say,  of  a 
Marlowe  or  a  Scott  ? 

Romanticism  surely  is  a  widening  of  the  imaginative  horizon, 
a  sharpening  of  emotional  sensibility.  At  its  onset  it  drives 
those  who  feel  its  spell  into  strange  by-paths  of  thought  anc 
feeling  away  from  the  broad  highway  of  ordinary  human  expe- 
rience. It  was  thus  with  Marlowe  in  his  world-moving  visions  4 
thus  with  Scott  in  his  fervent  medisevalism. 

But  ultimately  it  brings  us  back  to  the  highway — only  at  a 
greater  elevation.  We  seek  it  first  in  the  thunder  and  the 
earthquake  of  the  fantastic  and  bizarre,  and  find  it  after  al 
in  the  still  small  voice  of  everyday  life.  In  other  words, 
Romanticism  is  not  opposed  to  Reality.  It  is  Reality  trans 
figured  by  new  powers  of  vision  and  feeling.  In  the  deep  sense 


THE  ROMANTIC   REVIVAL  77 

of  the  word,  Marlowe  and  Scott  are  realists  because  of  their 
Romanticism.  Marlowe  hinted  at  it  in  his  Edward  //, 
ithough  he  died  too  young  to  realise  its  full  implication.  Scott 
realised  it  perfectly  in  his  faithful  pictures  of  Scottish  life  and 
jcharacter. 

Stated  simply  and  generally,  the  features  most  insistent  at 
|this  period  are,  the  spiritualising  of  Nature  and  the  humanising 
of  Social  Life. 

The  supreme  Romantic  movement  in  English  letters  was  the 
[Renascence.  It  had  transformed  not  only  English  but  Euro- 
pean life  ;  but  like  every  great  impulse  in  Art  and  Life,  it  had 
been  followed  by  a  period  of  reaction.  The  great  Romanticists 
were,  as  I  have  said,  also  realists,  but  among  the  lesser  spirits 
romanticism  always  generates  a  certain  tendency  to  exaggera- 
tion and  aloofness  from  the  conditions  of  ordinary  life.  It 
was  the  business  of  the  common-sense  unimpassioned  school 
ihat  followed  to  correct  these  defects.  This  it  accomplished, 
and  it  bequeathed  to  English  literature  a  greater  clarity,  a 
closer  correspondence  with  the  actualities  of  life  ;  and  then  in 
its  turn  becoming  artificial  and  one-sided,  another  tidal  move- 
ment was  needed  for  purposes  of  spiritual  adjustment. 

The  Romantic  Revival  was  the  result  of  no  one  cause. 
Broadly  speaking,  it  was  the  inevitable  corollary  of  the  Rena- 
scence and  Reformation.  The  dignity  and  importance  of  man 
as  man,  the  glories  of  the  world  of  nature,  these  ideas,  of 
which  we  hear  so  much  at  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
were  born  centuries  before,  and  had  been  gradually  working  in 
men's  minds  through  all  the  political  unrest  of  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  centuries.  The  first  flowering  of  Romanticism 
.n  England,  the  bloody  horrors  of  the  French  Revolution,  the 
dndling  of  a  new  idealistic  philosophy  in  Germany  under 
Kant  and  Hegel,  the  political  upheaval  in  America,  all  these 
;hings  were  but  varying  symptoms  of  a  general  fermentation 
ihat  had  lasted  on  from  the  fifteenth  century. 

It  is  well  to  remember  this,  for  although  the  social  theories 
Rousseau,  roughly  embodied  in  the  familiar  phrase,  the 
'  return  to  nature,"  did  materially  affect  doctrinaires  like 
iVilliam  Godwin,  and  through  Godwin,  Shelley ;  and  although 
;he  battle-cry  of  the  Revolutionaries,  "  Liberty,  Equality,  and 
rniternity,"  impressed  itself  on  the  youthful  imagination  of 
>Vords\vorth  and  Coleridge,  the  general  characteristics  of  the 
Revival  suggested  above  were  collateral  with  the  Revolution, 
lot  derived  from  it.  They  arose,  as  we  may  see,  in  verse  and 
iction  during  the  lifetime  of  Pope,  and  impressed  many  an 


78     A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

imagination  long   before  the  overthrow  of  the   Bastille  had 
iven  these  ideas  a  more  urgent  vitality. 
As  regards  the  passion  for  Nature,  so  insistent  among  the 

rts  and  certain  story-tellers  of  the  time,  this  may  be  said, 
is  not  that  men  like  Wordsworth  and  Shelley  cared  for 
Nature  more  than  did  Shakespeare,  or  in  our  own  time  Tennyson, 
but  they  cared  in  a  different  way.  Wordsworth  found  brooding 
and  tranquillising  thought  at  the  heart  of  Nature.  Shelley 
an  ardent  and  persuasive  love — in  other  words,  they  spiri- 
tualised Nature.  To  Shakespeare  the  primrose  was  a  pretty 
yellow  flower,  and  u  nothing  more."  To  Tennyson,  the  land- 
scape was  an  exquisite  stage  property,  in  which  human  emotions 
might  be  pictorially  framed.  Shakespeare,  with  the  hearty 
objectivity  of  his  age,  loved  Nature  without  questioning , how 
and  wherefore.  Tennyson,  with  the  introspective  tendency  of 
his  age,  put  his  sentiment  under  the  microscope,  and  found 
that  modern  science  had  stripped  Nature  of  her  pontifical  robe 
of  metaphysics. 

The  Spiritualising  of  Nature. — Now  this  spiritualising  of 
Nature  started  as  early  as  Thomson's  Seasons;  it  is  as  yet 
more  implicit  than  explicit,  but  as  we  proceed,  growing  clearer 
through  the  verse  of  William  Collins  and  Gray  ;  until  in  Burns, 
Blake,  and  Cowper  it  is  exultant  in  note,  and  only  awaits  the 
shaping  imagination  of  Wordsworth  and  his  great  contem- 
poraries to  give  it  consummate  artistic  expression. 

It  was  because  many  thought  they  saw  in  medievalism  a 
richer  inspiration  for  the  mysterious  forces  they  felt  about 
them,  that  they  turned  from  modern  conditions  of  life  towards 
the  folk-lore  and  legendary  wealth  of  the  Middle  Ages.  Only 
gradually  did  they  realise  that  to  find  this  element  of  wonder 
and  strangeness,  they  need  not  delve  in  the  remote  past.  It 
was  at  their  hand.  It  arose  from  the  natural  simplicity  which 
they  lauded — the  mysticism  of  everyday  life,  the  magic  of  the 
Earth,  the  witchery  of  the  Seasons. 

An  ordinary  sunset,  the  garrulity  of  ap.  old  seaman,  the 
rain-bearing  wind,  the  song  of  a  nightingale ;  these  are  the 
things  that  inspire  to  great  achievement  a  Wordsworth,  a 
Coleridge,  a  Shelley,  a  Keats. 

The  Humanising  of  Social  Life. — The  other  feature  of  th 
time  is  closely  connected  with  the  heightened  appreciation  o 
natural  beauty,  for  it  impelled  an  attraction  towards  simp] 
and  elemental  qualities  everywhere.  This  made  for  th 
humanising  of  life,  and  gave  warmth  and  tenderness,  and  ima 
ginative  sensibility  to  both  the  poetry  and  prose  of  the  age. 


THE  EOMANTIC   REVIVAL  79 


1.  POETRY 

In  dealing  with  the  poetry  of  the  time,  so  abundant  in 
quantity  as  well  as  rich  in  quality,  it  will  be  convenient  to 
treat  of  it  around  these  three  dominant  personalities  :  Words- 
worth, Scott,  and  Shelley. 

The  earliest  forerunners  of  the  Eomantic  Revival  were 
James  Macpherson,  with  his  version  of  the  old  Celtic  legend 
of  Ossian  (1762),  and  Bishop  Percy,  whose  collection  of  old 
ballads,  Reliques  of  Ancient  Poetry,  appeared  in  1764.  These 
two  writers  stimulated  interest  in  ancient  ballad  verse  and 
legend,  and  prepared  the  way  for  the  precocious  Chatterton 
with  his  ballad  imitations.  Then  comes  BLAKE,  who  expressed 
in  his  Songs  of  Innocence  (1789)  both  the  mysticism  and  the 
homely  delight  of  common  things;  and  thus  is  godfather 
both  to  The  Ancient  Mariner  and  Wordsworth's  pastoral 
domesticities. 

The  same  love  of  simple  joys  animates  the  work  of  COWPER. 
These  two  poets  foreshadow  the  work  of  the  Wordsworthian 
group,  and  hint  at  the  kinship  with  all  sentient  things  which 
is  the  link  uniting  Wordsworth  and  Shelley. 

William  Wordsworth. — A  quiet,  uneventful  life  spent 
partly  in  the  south-west  of  England,  but  chiefly  among  the 
English  Lakes.  There  were  two  influences  in  his  poetic  life  ; 
that  of  his  friend  Coleridge,  which  led  to  the  joint  production 
of  the  famous  Lyrical  Ballads  in  1798,  and  that  of  his  sister 
Dorothy.  The  first  was  the  more  considerable,  the  latter  the 
more  persistent.  Otherwise  no  poet  has  proved  less  susceptible 
to  the  influence  of  other  minds  than  Wordsworth.  When 
quite  a  youth,  the  beauty  of  a  sunrise  stirred  within  him  a 
sense  of  his  calling,  to  be  "  a  dedicated  spirit "  to  Nature. 
And  Nature  never  had  a  more  faithful  devotee. 

The  matter  of  the  universe  was  for  Wordsworth  merely  the 
vesture  of  a  great  spiritual  power  interpenetrating  Nature ;  a 
rock,  a  flower,  a  sunset,  a  mountain  torrent,  the  beauty  of  a 
girl,  were  for  him  varying  manifestations  of  this  unifying 
principle.  This  is  the  underlying  thought  of  Tintern  Abbey. 

And  this  peace  he  finds  everywhere  at  the  heart  of  Nature, 
"  a  central  peace  subsisting  at  the  heart  of  endless  agitation,'' 
which  fills  the  poet's  heart  with  a  deep,  abiding  joy — not  the 
ecstatic  rapture  of  Shelley,  but  a  rich,  measured  contentment. 
It  is  the  burden  of  that  autobiographical  and  philosophic  frag- 
ment, The  Prelude  (1805). 


80     A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  thus  his  love  of  Nature  is  transferred  to  the  shepherd 
and  simple  dalesmen,  and  after  them  to  Humanity  at  large. 
He  is  the  poet  of  Man  just  as  Browning  is  the  poet  of  Men. 

Samuel  Taylor  Coleridge. — Supremely  plastic  in  imagina- 
tion, and  susceptible  to  every  cross-current  of  emotion, 
Coleridge  differs  widely  in  temperament  from  Wordsworth, 
with  his  emotional  frugality  and  steady  oneness  of  vision. 

In  no  other  poet  of  the  time  is  the  sense  of  mystery  morb 
finely  developed.  His  mastery  of  rhythm  and  metre  gave  an 
art  which  is  almost  artless  in  its  naive  magic,  to  the  old  ballad 
measure  of  The  Ancient  Mariner  (1798).  And  in  reproducing 
the  ghostly  atmosphere  of  mediaeval  romance,  he  is  unequalled 
in  our  literature.  Rossetti  alone  can  approach  him  with  any 
measure  of  success.  Scott,  so  adept  in  dealing  with  the 
human  elements  of  medievalism,  failed  in  reproducing  its 
supernaturalism,  both  in  his  verse  and  prose. 

The  years  of  Coleridge's  best  poetry  are  from  179^  to  1800. 
After  that  the  tenuous  but  precious  stream  of  his  poesy 
dried  up  ;  and  for  the  remaining  thirty  years  it  is  to  the  meta- 
physician, critic,  and  brilliant  discursive  talker  of  Highgate-Hill 
that  we  look.  His  early  verse  is  turgid  and  imitative  of  the 
eighteenth-century  models.  But  the  comradeship  of  Words- 
worth had  a  quick  ripening  effect  on  his  genius. 

The  most  remarkable  thing  about  The  Ancient  Mariner  and 
Christabel  is  the  mingling  of  the  mystical  quality  with  a  stark 
simplicity  of  phrasing.  What  could  at  once  be  more  homely 
and  more  imaginative  than  these  lines  : 

"  The  moving  moon  went  up  the  sky 

And  nowhere  did  abide  ; 
Softly  she  was  going  up 
And  a  star  or  two  beside." 

The  Poetry  of  Lowly  Life. — In  dealing  with  scenes  of 
lowly  life,  Crabbe  had  as  forerunner  William  Shenstone  with  his 
Schoolmistress  (1742).  He  was  succeeded  by  Bloomfield,  who 
wrote  The  Farmer  Boy  (1798) ;  Ebenezer  Elliott,  the  vigorous 
and  picturesque  Corn  Law  Rhymer;  and  John  Clare,  author  of 
Poems  Descriptive  of  Rural  Life  (1820). 

In  imaginative  power,  George  Crabbe  is  greatly  inferior  to 
either  Wordsworth  or  Coleridge,  but  he  had  fully  as  vivid  a 
sense  of  the  richness  of  everyday  life,  and  a  ready  faculty  for 
describing  simply,  unpretentiously,  and  truly,  the  lives  of  the 
poor,  in  The  Parish  Register  (1807),  and  Tales  in  Verse  (1812). 

Scott  and  his  School. — Passing  to  the  Scott  group  of  Poets, 


THE   EOMANTIC   EEVIYAL  81 

we  realise  that  here  we  have  to  deal  with  a  more  definitely 
historical  atmosphere.  As  a  forerunner  of  Scott  there  is 
Allan  Ramsay,  the  friend  of  Pope,  who  wrote  simply  and 
feelingly  about  Scottish  life. 

Scott,  saturated  with  the  Border  Minstrelsy,  and  inspired 
by  Percy's  Reliques,  gives  fresh  life  to  the  Border  Romances  in 
The  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel  (1805),  Marmion  (1808),  and  The 
Lady  of  the  Lake  (1810).  If  he  lacked  the  lyric  passion  of 
Burns,  and  the  witchery  of  Coleridge  and  Keats,  he  is  unex- 
celled in  narrative  force  and  clearness. 

Closely  identified  with  Scott  are  John  Leyden,  and  James 
Elogg,  "  The  Ettrick  Shepherd,"  and  their  ballad  poetry  is  rich 
.n  imaginative  beauty. 

The  battle  chants  of  William  Motherwell,  and  the  stirring 
war  songs  of  Thomas  Campbell,  are  further  memorable  additions 
;o  the  plentiful  output  of  contemporary  Scottish  verse.  What 
Uampbell  did  for  Britain,  Thomas  Moore  achieves  for  Ireland. 
Ee  has  less  force  than  Campbell,  but  more  sweetness  of  melody  ; 
though  posterity  has  not  ratified  the  high  opinion  of  his 
contemporaries. 

Robert  Southey  belongs  to  this  group  by  virtue  of  his 
picturesque,  historical  sense.  Not  content  with  exploiting  the 
:olk-iore  of  his  country,  he  pushed  Eastward  and  attained  his 
greatest  vogue  in  dealing  with  Oriental  subjects:  Thalaba 
(1801),  and  The  Curse  of  Kehama  (1810). 

The  humblest  of  the  group,  though  popular  enough  in  their 
day,  are  James  Montgomery  and  Mrs.  Hemans  ;  they  exemplify 
bhe  spirit  of  romanticism  in  its  shallowest  expressions,  though 
bheir  verse  at  its  best  is  touched  by  sweetness  and  pictorial 
skill.  %. 

Shelley  and  his  Circle. — In  the  poetry  passed  under  review,x 
bhe  main  thing  has  been  the  reiteration  of  the  importance  of 
ordinary  folk  and  commonplace  things.  Those  catchwords  of 
bhe  Revolution,  Equality  and  Fraternity,  have  received  varied 
illustration  ;  but  there  has  been  little  insistence  upon  Liberty. 
Wordsworth  and  Coleridge,  at  first  enthusiastic  in  the  cause 
of  Revolutionary  France,  speedily  recanted  their  early  faith, 
and  a  strong  element  of  conservatism  enters  into  not  only  their 
work,  but  the  work  of  most  of  their  followers  and  adherents. 
There  is  democratic  sentiment  in  Burns,  but  that  of  Scott, 
insistent  as  it  is,  affects  his  prose  far  more  than  his  verse. 

Byron. — When  we  come  to  Byron,  however,  the  bolder  and 
freer  aspects  of  Romanticism  are  to  the  fore.  Lacking  the 
intensity  and  concentration  of  Wordsworth,  the  subtlety  of 
Coleridge,  and  the  sensitive  receptivity  of  Keats,  he  possessed 


82     A   HISTORY   OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

a  breadth  of  imagination  and  a  caustic  wit  that  gave  him  a 
distinctive  place  among  the  poets  of  the  age.  He  shares  with 
his  great  contemporaries  an  intense  love  of  Nature,  especially 
in  her  wilder  aspects,  and  in  CTiilde  Harold  (c.  1812),  and  The 
Siege  of  Corinth  (1815),  there  are  vivid  and  spirited  passages  of 
scenic  description. 

In  style  and  temperament  he  is  a  curious  blend  of  the  age 
of  satire  and  the  age  of  romanticism.  There  is  something  of 
Pope's  school  in  his  metrical  experiments,  something  also  of 
the  colloquial  ease  and  humour  of  Dryden  in  such  satirical 
poems  as  English  Bards  and  Scotch  Reviewers  (1809),  But 
mingled  with  this  there  is  the  passion  for  Nature,  and  his 
sympathy  with  the  revolutionary  spirit. 

He  has  been  accused  of  insincerity,  and  insincere  he  could 
be  when  he  wished.     But  it  was  a  deliberate  insincerity ;  an 
actor's  pose.     And  there  was  a  certain  elemental  greatness  hi 
the  man  despite  the  limelight  attitudinising.     In  that  strange 
mixture  of  worldly  wisdom  and  poetic  beauty,  Don  Juan  (1819), 
we  see  Byron  at  his  best.     His  songs   lack  the  delicacy  of 
Shelley's,  but  they  have  a  fine  lilt  and  music  of  their  own,  and 
"  She  walks  in  beauty  like  the  night 
Of  cloudless  clime  and  starry  skies  " 

will  take  its  place  among  the  best  lyrics  of  our  literature. 

Percy  Bysshe  Shelley. — Shelley  is  emphatically  the  poet  of 
eager,  sensitive  youth  ;  not  the  annual  youth  of  Byron,  but  the 
spiritual  youth  of  the  visionary  and  reformer.  In  his  earlier ; 
years  Godwin  was  the  figure  who  most  readily  impressed  his 
mobile  imagination,  and  in  many  of  the  poems  dealing  with 
social  subjects — Queen  Mab  (1813)  and  the  Revolt  of  Islam 
(1818) — he  is  little  more  than  Godwin  made  musical.  In  later 
life  Wordsworth's  influence  is  more  clearly  discernible.  But 
the  most  potent  inspiration  came  from  Greek  literature,  first 
brought  before  his  notice  by  his  kindly  friend  and  critic, 
Peacock. 

Shelley,  like  his  admirer  Browning,  needed  the  sunshine  of 
the  South  to  rouse  his  finest  powers.  Alastor  (1816)  is  the 
splendid  product  of  his  first  acquaintance  with  the  Alps ;  and 
his  loveliest  lyrics  were  written  under  Italian  skies. 

Two  notes  dominate  all  Shelley's  work,  epic,  narrative,  and 

ric  alike — his  devotion  to  liberty,  and  his  wholehearted  belief 
in  love,  as  the  prime  factor  hi  all  human  progress.  The  Revolu- 
tion to  Shelley  was  much  more  than  a  political  upheaval ;  it 
was  a  spiritual  awakening,  the  beginning  of  a  new  life.  All 
that  was  evil  in  life  he  traced  to  Slavery.  Natural  development 
for  him  was  the  only  development.  He  believed  that  men 


THE   EOMAXTIC   REVIVAL  83 

would  never  be  men,  never  give  what  was  best  in  them  until 
they  could  give  it  out  freely.  Master  yourself,  he  cries,  and 
external  freedom  will  enable  you  to  realise  your  utmost  capa- 
bilities. These  are  the  thoughts  underlying  The  Revolt  of  Islam^ 
The  Masque  of  Anarchy,  Julian  and  Maddolo,  and  the  noble  lyric 
drama  Prometheus  Unbound.  Liberty,  in  Shelley's  eyes,  was 
freedom  from  external  restraint.  It  is  opposed  to  licence,  for 
:  ule  the  Empire  of  Self  "  was  with  Shelley  a  moral  necessity. 
What  then,  if  force  is  withdrawn  from  Society,  is  to  take  its 
place  ?  Shelley's  answer  is,  Love.  Love  is  to  reign  supreme,  for 
only  in  an  atmosphere  of  love  can  liberty  efficiently  work.  Love 
is  with  Shelley  a  transcendental  force  kindling  all  things^ 
into  beauty.  In  his  treatment  of  it  we  miss  the  more  concrete 
touch  of  Keats,  and  the  homeliness  of  Wordsworth's  steady 
affection.  And  there  are  times  when  his  dream  pictures  float 
away,  like  exquisite  bubbles,  that  melt  even  as  we  watch  them. 

But  both  the  strength  and  weakness  of  Shelley's  verse  He  in 
the  fact  that  his  fine  idealism,  and  warm  human  sympathies, 
are  clad  in  shadowy  fantasies,  and  lyrics  delicate  as  gossamer. 
Thought  and  feeling  are  etherealised,  till  their  presence  is 
discerned  only  as  one  discerns  the  things  of  dreamland.  He  is 
the  Oberon  of  poets  ;  and  even  in  his  most  impassioned  songs,  in 
such  matchless  lyrics  as  The  Worlds  great  age  begins  anew,  where 
our  rough  guttural  tongue  becomes  an  exquisite  lyric  cry — even 
here  it  is  as  if  some  fairy  child  were  lamenting  the  sins  and 
cruelties  of  mankind:  Oberon  turned  Social  Reformer.  Whatever 
be  the  fate  of  his  longer  poems,  his  lyrics  are  sure  to  live 
so  long  as  rhythmic  beauty  and  elfin  music  appeal  to  humankind. 

John  Keats. — Keats  has  more  imaginative  affinity  with 
Coleridge  than  with  Shelley,  and  has  the  same  Celtic  blood  in 
his  veins.  The  formative  influences  in  his  work  are  the  medi- 
eval Italian  verse  of  Leigh  Hunt,  the  pastoral  sweetness  of 
Spenser,  and  the  inspiration  of  Greek  art  first  gained  through 
the  medium  of  Chapman's  Homer.  But  his  individual  genius, 
though  shaped  by  these  influences,  soon  placed  him  among  the 
foremost  names  of  his  age,  while  in  certain  directions  he  is 
pre-eminent.  The  naturalism  of  Wordsworth's  School  is 
blended  here  with  an  extraordinary  delicacy  of  observation, 
which  gives  his  scenic  pictures  a  unique  charm.  For  instance : 
"  A  little  noiseless  noise  among  the  leaves, 
Born  of  the  very  sigh  that  silence  heaves." 

When  he  first  began  to  write,  the  wealth  of  his  perceptive 
life  bewildered  and  embarrassed  him.  Gradually  he  found 
speech,  and  although  an  Oriental  extravagance  of  emotion 
breaks  out  from  time  to  time,  no  poet  has  excelled  Keats  at 


84     A   HISTOEY  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

his  best  for  splendour  of  workmanship.  Endymion  (1818), 
Isabella  (1818),  and  The  Eve  of  St.  Agnes  (1819),  splendid  in 
colouring  as  they  are,  tend  to  fatigue  the  eye,  because  of  the 
excess  of  ornament.  But  the  Odes  are  among  the  imperishable 
things  of  English  verse  by  virtue  of  their  Hellenic  clarity  and 
chiselled  beauty,  and  the  poetry  comes  naturally,  as  Keats  was 
wont  to  declare  poetry  should,  "  as  leaves  to  a  tree."  Indeed 
the  thought  that  inspired  him  as  a  poet,  the  thought  condensed 
into  those  well-known  lines  in  the  Ode  on  a  Grecian  Urn  (1819) : 
"  Beauty  is  truth,  truth  beauty, — that  is  all 

Ye  know  on  earth,  and  all  ye  need  to  know," 
lies  at  the  very  root  of  Ruskin's  teaching,  Pater's  philosophy, 
and  Morris's  social  gospel.  The  insistence  on  a  spiritual  prin- 
ciple carried  with  it  new  democratic  ideals  of  which  probably 
Keats  never  thought,  but  which  were  to  bring  literature  and 
life  into  far  more  intimate  relations ;  and  it  seems  somewhat 
strange  that  the  poet,  whose  work  was  the  most  secluded  from 
the  rush  and  turmoil  of  daily  life,  should  have  reminded  us  so 
insistently  of  this  eternal  fact. 

Among  the  other  poets  of  the  romantic  revival,  belonging 
especially  to  this  group,  are  Walter  Savage  Landor,  also  pro- 
foundly influenced  by  Greek  art.  He  excels  in  elaboration  of 
detail  and  choice  sobriety  of  phrase,  but  his  more  character- 
istic work  lies  in  his  Imaginary  Conversations  (1824-29),  where 
his  rich,  scholarly  imagination  and  exuberant  vitality  found 
congenial  outlet. 

2.  THE  NOVEL 

Just  as  Macpherson's  Ossian  and  Bishop  Percy's  Reliques 
heralded  in  the  romantic  revival  in  poetry,  so  did  Horace 
Walpole's  Castle  of  Otranto  (1764)  proclaim  its  entrance  into 
fiction.  The  story  with  its  crude  supernaturalism  is  absurd 
enough.  But  the  essential  thing  about  the  book  is  that 
it  indicated  the  hankering  after  romance  and  mystery  which 
was  beginning  to  beset  the  writers  of  the  time. 

William  Beckford,  in  his  Oriental  romance  Vatlielc  (1782),  im- 
proves upon  Walpole  in  the  craftsmanship  of  "  blood-curdling 9t ; 
and  Mrs.  Radcliffe,  who  succeeded,  was  certainly  an  artist  of 
considerable  graphic  power.  Her  Mysteries  of  Udolpho  (1794), 
with  all  its  extravagances,  shows  a  very  genuine  appreciation 
of  the  sublime  and  terrible  in  Nature,  and  if  only  for  her 
influence  upon  such  men  as  Scott  and  Byron,  she  deserves  the 
notice  of  the  literary  student.  It  is  no  exaggeration  to  say 
that  she  brought  the  passion  for  Nature,  which  is  so  marked 
a  feature  of  the  romantic  revival,  into  English  fiction. 


THE  ROMANTIC   REVIVAL  85 

In  Walpole  and  Mrs.  Radcliffe  the  background  is  projected 
into  a  past  age,  but  there  is  no  definite  historical  atmosphere. 
Romanticism,  however,  naturally  favoured  the  growth  of  the 
historical  novel.  Moreover,  the  greater  attention  given  to 
history  in  the  brilliant  work  of  Gibbon,  the  pleasant,  palatable 
experiments  in  this  direction  of  Goldsmith,  together  with  the 
interest  in  the  past  excited  by  Walpole,  made  favourably  for 
the  production  of  historical  romance,  and  prepared  the  way 
for  Sir  Walter  Scott. 

The  Note  of  Mystery  and  Terror.— The  note  of  mystery 
and  terror  which  Walpole  struck,  half  in  joke,  and  Mrs. 
Radcliffe  wholly  in  earnest,  was  intensified  by  "  Monk  "  Lewis, 
and  Charles  Robert  Maturin.  Lewis  was  an  expert  in  the 
making  of  horrors,  but  he  is  entirely  lacking  in  Mrs.  Rad- 
cliftVs  artistic  sincerity.  Maturin,  an  Irish  clergyman  of 
French  descent,  imparts  a  religious  fanaticism  into  his  super- 
natural horrors.  His  most  ambitious  work  was  Melmoth  the 
Wanderer  (1820).  In  The  Frankenstein  (1817)  of  Mary  Shelley, 
we  find  supernaturalism  and  philosophic  speculation  blended. 
This  romance  is  a  bridge  between  the  pure  romance  of  the 
Radcliffe  school  and  the  doctrinaire  romantic  novels  of  William 
Godwin.  In  Godwin's  Caleb  Williams  (1794),  St.  Leon  (1799), 
and  Fleetwood  (1804),  there  are  distinct  traces  of  the  school  of 
mystery  and  terror,  combined  with  much  severely  logical 
reasoning,  largely  inspired  by  Rousseau's  education  theories. 

Among  his  successors  we  have  Mrs.  Opie,  whose  Adeline 
Mowbray,  or  the  Mother  and  Daughter  (1804),  is  influenced  by 
Godwin  ;  and  Mrs.  Inchbald,  with  her  Simple  Story  (1791),  and 
Nature  and  Art  (1796) — educational  stories  of  real  power. 

To  this  time  also  belongs  Thomas  Day's  Sandford  and  Merton 
(1783-89) — a  scheme  for  parents,  and  incidentally  a  rule  of  life 
for  children,  more  remarkable  for  earnest  purpose  than  per- 
suasive charm. 

The  educational  novelist  who  used  romanticism  to  sugar- 
coat  didacticism,  culminated  in  Maria  Edgeworth.  Unlike  her 
predecessors  she  had  a  lively  style,  and  a  genuine  gift  of  satire, 
and  in  Castle  Rackrent  (1800)  she  gives  a  very  spirited  picture 
of  the  Irish  life  which  she  knew  so  well ;  and  her  humorous 
portrayal  of  character  and  tenderness  of  heart  moved  Scott 
to  enthusiastic  praise.  He  did  not  trouble  much  about  her 
theories,  but  admired  her  greatly  as  a  painter  of  Irish  national 
life. 

Sir  Walter  Scott. — Scott  is  the  greatest  novelist  of  the 
romantic  revival,  because,  while  seizing  upon  the  picturesque 
elements  of  medievalism,  he  does  not  reject  the  great  tradition 


86     A   HISTOEY  OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

of  the  eighteenth  century  in  the  direction  of  transcript  from 
life.  His  romanticism  is  tempered  with  cool  common  sense. 
Why  does  he  write  of  the  past  in  place  of  his  own  age  ?  He 
does  so  because  his  imagination  lived  naturally  in  the  past. 
He  is  an  historical  novelist  by  temperament,  not  by  profession. 
Charles  Reade  reconstructed  the  past  with  the  art  of  a 
brilliant  journalist ;  Thackeray  refashioned  it  as  a  sympathetic 
critic ;  George  Eliot  treated  it  from  the  scholar's  standpoint. 
Scott  simply  breathed  it  ;  it  was  part  and  parcel  of  his  think- 
ing life.  The  subtler  sides  of  romanticism  find  more  notable 
expression  elsewhere.  But  no  one  had  a  keener  sense  for  the 
pomp  and  pageantry  of  a  bygone  age. 

The  first  novel  appeared  in  1814,  and  for  the  next  sixteen 
years  he  held  the  stage  of  fiction,  publishing  twenty-nine 
stories  in  all.  No  other  novelist  save  Dickens  appealed  to  so 
wide  a  circle,  or  more  entirely  captured  the  fancy  of  the  day. 
When  asked  for  his  opinion  of  Waverley,  Lord  Holland  said, 
'We  did  not  one  of  us  go  to  bed  last  night — nothing  slept 
but  my  gout."  All  his  best  work  is  marked  by  three  char- 
acteristics :  a  genius  for  vitalising  the  past,  a  love  of  nature, 
and  a  sturdy  humanity. 

Throughout  his  life  he  was  absorbing  the  folk-lore  of  his 
country,  and  he  exhaled  antiquarianism  as  a  flower  exhales 
fragrance.  There  is  therefore  about  his  books  a  fine  atmos- 
phere of  improvisation ;  while  his  rich  and  varied  knowledge 
flowed  from  his  pen  with  the  ease  and  naturalness  of  fireside 
gossip.  He  did  not  rhapsodise  over  the  past  as  Gibbon  did, 
or  moralise  about  it,  from  an  eighteenth-century  niche,  as 
Johnson  had  done  ;  he  dramatised  it,  made  it  live  before  us. 
There  have  been  many  historical  romancers  more  accurate  than 
he  in  the  externals  of  his  tale ;  none  so  true  to  the  inmost 
spirit  of  the  age  he  is  depicting. 

And  this  delight  and  relish  for  the  past  was  warmed  by  a 
genuine  love  of  Nature.  He  loved  not  merely  the  institutions 
of  his  country,  but  his  country's  soil ;  loved  it  as  a  child  loves, 
for  its  associations :  and  he  told  Washington  Irving  that  if  he 
did  not  see  the  heather  at  least  once  a  year,  he  thought  he 
would  die.  Yet  a  beautiful  landscape  to  hirn  meant  little 
without  the  human  touch  in  it.  Sanctify  it  with  some  legend 
or  personal  association,  and  he  took  it  to  his  heart  at  once. 

A  Tory  in  politics,  he  was  a  Democrat  in  feelings.  None  of 
his  characters  are  more  vital  than  those  racy  of  the  soil.  The 
heroes  and  heroines  are  pleasant  enough  in  their  way,  but  it 
is  a  shadowy  way.  The  peasants,  the  antiquarians,  the  bailies, 
are  exuberant  realities.  He  is  a  clever  painter  of  historical 


THE  EOMANTIC   EEVIYAL  87 

portraits — e.g.  Louis  XI ;  and  the  Homer  of  Scottish  national 

Scott's  Contemporaries. — Two  friends  of  Scott  achieved  dis- 
tinction in  tales  of  Scottish  life — Susan  Ferrier  and  John  Gait. 

John  Gait  was  an  Ayrshire  man,  who  had  travelled  abroad 
and  met  Byron.  His  one  unequivocal  success  was  Annals  of 
the  Parish  (1821),  where  his  vigour  and  sense  of  humour  are 
happily  displayed. 

Gait  did  for  the  Scottish  parish  what  Miss  Mitford  did  for 
the  English  village.  Each  excelled  in  miniature  painting. 

Susan  Ferrier  wrote  three  novels  only :  Marriage  (1818),  The 
Inheritance  (1824),  and  Destiny  (1831),  each  of  which  made  its 
mark,  but  she  steadily  refused  the  blandishments  of  publishers 
to  add  to  their  number.  She  was  born  in  Edinburgh,  and 
excelled  in  depicting  the  lesser  Scottish  gentry. 

Scott's  Successors. — Among  the  more  remarkable  of  Scott's 
numerous  successors  in  romantic  fiction  are,  William  Harrison, 
who  turned  history  into  vigorous  melodrama  ;  James  Grant, 
whose  Romance  of  War  (1846)  is  a  picturesque  military  novel 
of  no  little  power  ;  and  that  prolific  writer  Bulwer  Lytton  in 
his  earlier  phase. 

Apart  from  the  writers  of  historical  romance,  there  are 
James  Justinian  Morier,  the  author  of  a  vivid  picture  of  Persian 
life,  Hajji  Baba  (1824),  which  has  in  it  the  discursive  flavour  of 
Gil  Bias;  and  Thomas  Love  Peacock,  the  fine  scholar  and  wit, 
who  developed  a  new  vein  in  fiction  in  his  humorous  fantasies 
—of  these  Headlong  Hall  (1816),  Nightmare  Abbey  (1818),  and 
Melincourt  (1817)  are  the  happiest.  He  was  the  friend  of 
Shelley,  and  as  a  literary  figure  is  a  piquant  blend  of  the 
critical,  ironic  eighteenth  century  and  the  fervent  romanticism 
of  the  early  nineteenth. 

3.  PROSE  OTHER  THAN  FICTION 

Criticism  and  the  Essayists. — Burke  and  Goldsmith  to 
some  extent  were  the  forerunners  of  the  prose  of  the  romantic 
revival — Burke  with  his  sensibility  to  beauty ;  Goldsmith  with 
his  delicate  humour.  But  one  feature  of  the  prose  came  un- 
heralded and  with  the  suddenness  of  a  tropical  sunrise.  The 
effect  of  romanticism  upon  the  critical  faculty  was  such  as  to 
inaugurate  a  new  school  of  literary  appreciation,  with  which 
are  associated  the  names  of  Coleridge,  Lamb,  De  Quincey,  and 
Hazlitt. 

Divergent  in  character  and  genius,  these  men  were  animated 
by  a  common  ideal.  To  interpret,  through  the  sympathetic 


88     A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

imagination,  the  literature  of  an  age  by  the  light  of  its  own 
standards.  The  new  criticism  therefore  is  at  once  historical 
and  aesthetic — historical,  in  so  far  as  it  judged  a  man's  work 
relatively  to  his  time ;  aesthetic,  inasmuch  as  it  tried  to  re- 
create the  work  itself,  and  appreciate  it  as  the  expression  of 
an  individual  temperament.  How  widely  remote  is  this 
from  the  absolute  standard  of  criticism  implied  in  the  famous 
"  This  will  never  do  .  .  ."  of  Jeffrey  ! 

CHARLES  LAMB  was  the  first  to  point  out  the  poetic  richness 
of  the  Renascence  drama  at  large.  Thomas  de  Quincey  showed 
the  way  to  an  appreciation  of  modern  German  literature, 
afterwards  amplified  on  more  catholic  lines  by  Carlyle.  William 
Hazlitt,  in  his  Lectures  on  the  English  Poets  (1818),  pioneered 
a  wider  and  more  interpretative  spirit  of  our  national  verse, 
and  Coleridge  gave  the  impulse  to  modern  Shakespearean 
criticism;  and  he  was  the  first  to  deal  with  the  whole  of 
Shakespeare's  work  as  the  expression  of  a  single  mind  and 
temperament. 

Despite  the  fragmentary  nature  of  Coleridge's  critical  work, 
his  was  the  greatest  mind  among  his  contemporaries.  In 
poetry,  he  influenced  the  supernaturalism  of  Scott  and  Keats. 
In  criticism,  his  distinction  between  the  reason  (an  inward 
spiritual  vision),  and  the  understanding  (the  criterion  of  the 
senses),  proved  of  immense  value  to  the  theologians  of  the  age, 
and  both  the  High  and  Broad  Church  movements  may  claim 
him  as  their  godfather.  Equally  valuable  was  his  contention 
that  poetry  is  opposed  not  to  truth  but  to  science  ;  its  aim 
was  not  to  establish  truth,  but  communicate  pleasure.  Poetry 
presented  us  with  the  concrete  symbol ;  science  tried  to 
analyse  and  abstract  the  laws  embodied. 

Apart  from  the  critical  genius  of  these  writers,  each  of  them 
in  his  own  way  gave  a  fresh  charm  to  the  art  of  the  Essay. 
The  lovable  personality  of  Elia  found  an  exquisite  media  in 
those  discursive  confidences  that  saw  light  in  The  London 
Magazine.  No  one  could  gossip  in  print  more  delightfully  than 
he,  nor  more  casually  and  whimsically  convey  so  much  good 
sense  and  imaginative  sensibility.  He  is  the  fantastic  philo- 
sopher of  the  commonplace  experiences  of  life :  the  prince  of 
guides  to  the  byways  of  thought  and  feeling. 

Thomas  de  Quincey. — De  Quincey's  genius  as  an  essayist 
was  on  other  lines.  His  range  is  wider,  but  his  style,  though 
fertile  in  happy  turns  of  expression,  lacks  the  quaint  magic 
and  pensive  sweetness  of  Lamb.  His  most  notable  work  is  the 
Confessions  of  an  English  Opium  Eater  (1821),  a  fine  and  poignant 
piece  of  imaginative  autobiography,  His  experiments  in 


THE  ROMANTIC   REVIVAL  89 

"  impassioned  prose  " — a  kind  of  prose  poetry — are  ingenious, 
and  occasionally,  as  in  The  English  Mail  Coach,  dramatically 
telling  ;  but  on  a  higher  plane  is  the  graphic  force  of  the 
fragmentary  Revolt  of  the  Tartars. 

William  Hazlitt.— William  Hazlitt  started  life  as  an 
itinerant  young  portrait -painter,  with  a  taste  for  philosophy. 
He  soon  gave  up  the  brush — he  never  gave  up  painting — and 
his  brilliant  audacities  in  prose  have  survived  his  experiments 
in  pigment. 

There  is  something  of  Rousseau's  sentimental  garrulousness 
about  Hazlitt,  and  this  increases  the  human  interest  of  his 
writings.  We  may  dissent  from  his  conclusions,  or  take 
exception  to  certain  moods,  but  he  never  bores  us. 

He  was  the  reverse  of  a  sociable  man,  rarely  showing  his 
qualities  of  mind  to  any  but  one  or  two  chosen  souls.  "  One 
of  the  pleasantest  things  in  life,"  he  says,  "  is  going  on  a 
journey,  but  I  like  to  go  by  myself.  I  cannot  see  the  wit  of 
walking  and  talking  at  the  same  time." 

Hazlitt  is  the  Byron  of  prose.  There  is  the  same  immense 
vitality  in  the  Table  Talk  (1821)  and  Spirit  of  the  Age  (1825), 
the  same  changeableness  of  mood,  the  same  salt  of  humour, 
and  something  of  the  same  strange  mixture  of  idealist  and 
cynical  man  of  the  world,  as  we  see  in  Beppo  and  Don  Juan. 

Charles  Lamb,  with  his  unerring  insight,  never  failed  to  see 
the  finer  side  of  Hazlitt,  He  declared  that  Hazlitt  in  a  natur-al 
and  healthy  state  was  the  finest  and  wisest  of  spirits  breathing. 

Leigh  Hunt. — On  a  somewhat  humbler  level  is  Leigh  Hunt, 
the  friend  of  Shelley  and  Keats.  He  took  a  vigorous  part  in 
the  politics  of  his  time,  but  is  better  remembered  for  his 
agreeable  verse,  inspired  by  Italian  models,  which  served  to 
stimulate  Shelley's  Julian  and  Maddalo,  and  Keats'  Lamia 
—for  instance  TJie  Story  of  Rimini  (1816).  He  had  a  lively 
humour,  less  delicate  than  Lamb's,  but  akin  to  it  in  whimsical 
charm,  which  gives  a  pleasant  quality  to  his  essay  work. 

The  Development  of  Journalism. — The  intense  interest  in 
political  and  social  events  at  the  time  of  the  French  Revolution 
found  active  and  instant  expression  in  the  great  English 
Journals  which  came  into  existence  at  this  time.  The  Times, 
The  Morning  Chronicle,  and  The  Morning  Post  had  started  before 
the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century ;  and  these  were  followed 
during  the  early  years  of  the  new  era  by  the  foundation  of 
four  famous  critical  Reviews  :  The  Edinburgh,  The  Quarterly, 
Fraser's,  and  Blackwood's  Magazines.  Some  of  the  greatest  men 
of  letters  of  the  day  wrote  for  these  ;  and  despite  the  pontifical 
character  of  the  big  Reviews,  and  their  political  bias,  produc- 


90     A  HISTORY   OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

tive  at  times  of  notoriously  unfair  sledge-hammer  criticism,  it 
would  be  unjust  to  lose  sight  of  the  critical  value  of  a  good 
deal  of  their  work.  Among  the  most  prominent  writers  are 
such  men  as  Francis  Jeffrey,  Sydney  Smith,  Lord  Brougham, 
Professor  Wilson,  John  Lockhart ;  while  Coleridge,  Hazlitt, 
Southey  and  Carlyle,and  Macaulay,  did  admirable  work  for  them. 
Lighter  in  kind  and  more  literary  in  interest  were  such  papers 
as  TJie  London  Magazine  (for  which  Lamb  and  De  Quincey  wrote), 
and  Leigh  Hunt's  Examiner.  Later  in  the  century  came  The 
Westminster  Review,  largely  connected  with  the  work  of  John 
Stuart  Mill, 

VI 

THE  VICTORIAN  ERA  (c.  1832-1900) 

Introduction. — Two  strongly  marked  characteristics  affect 
Victorian  life  and  thought :  the  growth  of  the  democratic 
spirit,  and  the  rapid  development  of  scientific  ideas. 

In  the  poetry  of  the  time  the  democratic  spirit  is  reflected 
in  Hood's  Song  of  the  Shirt;  Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning's 
Cry  of  the  Children,  Tennyson's  Locksley  Hall,  and  the  socialistic 
songs  of  Charles  Kingsley  and  William  Morris.  While  in  the 
fiction  of  the  age,  many  of  the  story-tellers  assume  the  mantle 
of  the  Reformer.  Social  reconstruction  is  written  in  big  letters 
right  across  the  voluminous  work  of  Dickens  ;  Mrs.  Gaskell, 
Charlotte  Bronte,  and  "  Mark  Rutherford "  deal  with  the 
industrial  unrest  of  the  time ;  Charles  Reade  tilts  furiously 
against  various  social  abuses ;  Kingsley  preaches  the  gospel 
of  sanitation;  Disraeli  paints  the  political  democracy;  and 
Walter  Besant  directs  attention  to  East  London,  with  his 
All  Sorts  and  Conditions  of  Men. 

The  geological  discoveries  of  Sir  Charles  Lyell,  the  biological 
investigations  of  Robert  Chambers,  who  prepared  the  way  for 
The  Origin  of  Species,  of  Charles  Darwin,  for  Alfred  Russell 
Wallace,  Thomas  Huxley,  and  the  philosophic  generalisations 
of  Herbert  Spencer ;  all  these  intellectual  streams  of  thought 
flowed  over  into  the  literature  of  the  age,  and  profoundly 
influenced  it. 

Tennyson  treats  Nature  like  an  imaginative  man  of  science  ; 
Robert  Browning  is  often  more  like  an  analytical  chemist  than 
an  artist ;  Matthew  Arnold  and  Arthur  Hugh  Clough  are  largely 
occupied  with  the  discrepancies  between  scientific  discovery 
and  religious  faith  ;  and  although  the  Pre-Raphaelite  School  rise 
in  protest  against  this  intellectual  invasion  of  the  world  of 
poesy,  not  even  they  can  quite  escape  its  influence.  Among  the 


THE  VICTORIAN  ERA  91 

novelists  of  the  age  to  voice  the  scientific  spirit,  the  names  of 
George  Eliot,  George  Meredith,  and  Thomas  Hardy  readily  occur. 
Finally,  in  comparing  the  critical  prose  of  the  romantic 
movement  with  Victorian  prose,  we  may  see  how  the  old-world 
flavour  of  Lamb  is  exchanged  for  the  latter-day  political  stric- 
tures of  Carlyle.  The  fantasies  of  De  Quincey  give  place  to 
the  ironic,  social  commentary  of  Arnold,  and  in  place  of  the 
literary  heresies  of  Hazlitt  we  get  the  economic  heresies  of 
Huskin  and  Morris. 

1.  POETRY 

Tennyson. — There  is  no  poet  who  more  completely  reflects 
in  his  verse  the  questions  that  were  agitating  the  minds  of  the 
average  Englishman  in  Victorian  times  than  Alfred  Tennyson. 
When  he  began  to  write  the  great  romantic  poets  had  finished 
their  work,  and  overshadowed  by  their  rich  legacy  of  song,  his 
early  work  sounds  no  very  authentic  note.  It  is  pretty  album 
verse,  to  which  the  eighteenth  century  phrase  elegant  seems 
applicable.  But  in  the  volume  of  1842,  the  superficial  pretti- 
ness  of  the  early  verse  is  replaced  by  something  much  stronger 
and  finer.  Such  a  poem  as  Morte  d*  Arthur  exhibits  those 
qualities  of  lucidity,  melody,  and  dignity  which  inform  the 
poet's  best  work. 

In  Memoriam  is  in  many  ways  Tennyson9s  most  noble 
achievement.  There  is  a  greater  lyric  passion  and  splendour 
in  its  successor,  Maud;  but  it  combines  the  gracious  dignity  of 
Morte  d' Arthur  with  the  clarity  and  precision  of  his  narrative 
poems  and  the  rhythmic  music  of  his  Idylls.  As  a  poetic  state- 
ment of  the  religious  doubts  of  the  time,  it  obtained  a  power- 
ful hold  over  Tennyson's  generation.  To  us  to-day,  to  whom 
Darwin  is  not  the  last  word  in  thought,  the  exquisite  artistry 
of  the  poem  appeals  the  more  intimately.  JTennyson  is  the 
poet  of  average  humanity,  and  in  his  verse  we  find  the  ordinary 
concerns  of  life  touched  by  him  just  as  they  affect  the  average 
man  and  women.  With  a  considerable  measure  of  Wordsworth's 
naked  power  of  expression  and  homeliness  of  subject-matter, 
he  brings  to  his  pictures  of  English  life  a  tenderness  and 
caressing  grace  all  his  own.  His  love  of  ornament  leads 
him  into  tawdriness  at  times,  just  as  Wordsworth's  love  of  sim- 
plicity makes  him  trivial.  But  on  his  own  ground,  in  dealing 
with  the  broad  features  of  our  national  life — with  its  passion 
for  domesticity,,  deep-rooted  reverence  for  the  past,  and  frank 
insular  enthusiasm,  he  is  unexcelled.  In  his  dramatic  experi- 
ments, in  his  modern  sentimental  treatment  of  the  Arthurian 
Legend,  he  is  not  at  his  best.  The  beauty  of  the  Arthurian 


92     A   HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Legend,  so  strongly  and  poignantly  treated  by  Morris,  is  not 
well  exhibited  by  being  turned  into  a  latter-day  "  Morality  "  ; 
and  although  he  showed  genuine  power  of  presenting  character 
in  monologue  in  his  dialect  poems,  both  he  and  Browning 
lacked  that  essential  of  good  drama — the  power  of  presenting 
character  in  action.  But  as  a  word-painter  of  typical  English 
scenery,  as  the  exponent  of  the  simple  emotions  of  everyday 
life,  he  has  no  equal.  And  all  these  matters  are  portrayed 
with  extraordinary  delicacy  and  crystalline  clearness.  With 
his  deliberate  abstention  from  the  violent  and  unusual,  it 
required  great  art  to  avoid  bathos.  On  the  whole,  Tennyson 
emerges  triumphant  from  the  ordeal.  For  other  poets,  the 
Alpine  wonders  and  the  raptures  of  life ;  in  Tennyson's 
company  we  are  beside  the  green  pastures  and  still  waters. 

Tennyson  and  Browning  as  Artists. — As  an  artist  Tenny- 
son's place  is  secure  ;  and  his  friend  Robert  Browning,  to  whom 
the  thing  said  was  always  of  more  importance  than  the  way  of 
saying  it,  must  take  a  secondary  place.  But  as  an  intellectual 
force  shaping  and  testing  the  shifting  problems  of  his  time, 
Browning  is  just  as  certainly  his  superior. 

Their  Literary  Methods.  —  In  literary  method  they  have 
nothing  in  common.  Tennyson  is  descriptive  and  panoramic ; 
Browning  never  essays  more  than  a  side  view  of  his  subject, 
and  plunges  into  the  middle  of  his  topic  at  once — 

"  Which  do  you  pity  the  most  of  us  three, 
My  friend,  or  the  mistress  of  my  friend 
With  her  wanton  eyes,  or  me  ? " 

Where  Tennyson  is  deliberate,  measured,  eclectic,  Browning 
is  impulsive,  passionate,  omnivorous.  He  is  as  profoundly  in- 
terested as  Tennyson  or  Arnold  in  the  conflict  between  Science 
and  Religion,  though  unlike  them  he  is  stimulated,  not  de- 
pressed by  it. 

"  He  has  plenty  of  music  in  him,"  said  Tennyson  of  his  friend 
"  but  he  can't  get  it  out."  It  was  more  a  case  of  u-ouldn't  than 
couldn't.  Browning  was  a  real  poet  and  a  great  poet.  Only  j 
great  poet  could  have  given  us  Pippa  Passes  and  The  Ring  am 
the  Book.  But  he  was  a  great  poet  by  fits  and  starts  ;  for  so 
interested  is  he  in  men  and  things,  that  he  will  throw  aside  the 
artist's  robe  in  order  to  get  on  more  intimate  terms  with  his 
reader..  If  he  can  talk  to  us  in  terms  of  rhythmic  beauty,  wel 
and  good  ;  if  not,  so  much  the  worse  for  rhythmic  beauty ! 
large  part  of  Browning's  work  consists  of  little  novels  in  verse 
and  intellectual  discussion  thrown  into  some  rough  metrica 
mould. 


THE  VICTORIAN  ERA  93 

But  if  often  harsh  and  unmusical,  and  deliberately  obscure, 
not  through  vagueness  of  thought  but  because  he  has  no  regard 
for  the  slower-witted  reader,  he  is  never  negligible.  Like 
Whitman  his  personality  is  intensely  vital,  and  of  nearly  all 
his  writings  can  one  say,  "  This  is  no  book  ;  who  touches  this 
touches  a  man." 

Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning.— His  wife,  Elizabeth  Barrett 
Browning,  apart  from  the  ( romantic  part  she  played  in  her 
husband's  life,  chiefly  interests  us  as  doing  for  modern  poetry 
what  Charlotte  Bronte  did  for  fiction.  She  was  not  a  great 
artist,  nor  an  acute  thinker,  but  she  had  the  power  of  express- 
ing with  fine  sensibility,  passion,  and  force  the  woman's  point 
of  view.  From  this  standpoint  she  touches  the  social  problems 
of  her  time  in  Aurora  Leigh,  while  her  Bonnets  from  the  Portuguese 
(1845)  are  the  finest  poems  we  have  of  the  self-expressed  love 
of  a  wife  and  mother.  These  are  her  most  remarkable  contri- 
butions to  poetry,  and  may  take  their  place  along  with  Rossetti's 
House  of  Life. 

Arnold  and  Clough. — The  sceptical  unrest  of  the  mid-century 
is  forcibly  mirrored  in  Clough's  unequal  verses,  and  more 
fastidiously  and  exquisitely  expressed  in  the  classic  art  of 
Arnold.  If  not  a  great  poet,  Arnold  was  certainly  a  genuine 
one  within  somewhat  narrow  limits.  Wistful  suavity  rather 
than  strength  ;  delicate  irony  rather  than  lyric  passion,  informs 
his  verse.  This  suavity  is  never  more  happily  expressed  than 
in  the  Scholar  Gipsy  and  Thyrsis,  where  Oxford  and  the  Thames 
are  his  inspiration.  For  irony,  what  better  example  than  the 
Obermann  poems  ?  This  of  the  East : 

"  She  let  the  legions  thunder  past, 
And  plunged  in  thought  again." 

Or  for  a  line  of  wistful  regret : 

"  The  unplumbed,  salt,  estranging  sea." 
Dover  Beach,  one  of  his  most  characteristic  poems,  reflects  the 
melancholy  of  a  troubled  but  brave  spirit.  In  short,  a  fine 
artist,  more  limited  in  his  music  than  Tennyson,  less  virile 
and  original  than  Browning ;  but  unexcelled  in  depicting  certain 
wistful  moods  of  human  experience. 

Poetry  and  the  Pre-Raphaelite  Movement.  —  In  its 
narrower  aspects  this  was  an  Art  movement  that  tried  to 
restore  to  modern  painting  something  of  that  individuality 
and  sincerity  which  characterised  the  painters  before  Raphael, 
—e.g.  Giotto,  Bellini,  and  Fra  Angelico.  It  originated  with  a 
book  of  engravings  which  Holman  Hunt  and  Millais  saw  at 
Rossetti's  house,  of  certain  Italian  frescoes.  And  the  Brother- 


94     A   HISTOKY   OF  ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

hood  embodied  a  protest  against  the  mechanical  and  super- 
ficial art  of  the  day. 

In  its  broader  aspects  pre-Raphaelitism  was  a  plea  for  the 
imaginative  life,  a  protest  against  the  intellectualism  which 
had  crept  into  the  poetry  of  the  age,  and  had  threatened  its 
emotional  and  artistic  vitality. 

In  a  sense,  therefore,  it  was  a  hark  back  to  the  earlier 
romanticism,  and  mediaeval  enthusiasm  plays  certainly  a  con- 
siderable share  in  its  manifestations. 

In  its  broader  aspects,  moreover,  it  is  related  to  the  Trac- 
tarian'  Movement,  which  also  emphasized  the  imaginative  as 
opposed  to  the  intellectual  life,  and  was  as  impatient  with 
modern  scientific  thought  as  the  pre-Raphaelites  themselves. 
Only  whereas  the  pre-Raphaelite  said  :  Science  has  nothing  to 
do  with  art — it  is  irrelevant ;  the  Tractarian  said :  Science 
has  nothing  to  do  with  religion — it  is  wrong.  To  Newman  and 
Keble  the  scientific  "time-spirit"  was  a  moral  curse;  to 
Rossetti  and  Morris  merely  a  nuisance.  Religious  art  bulks 
largely  in  their  work,  but  it  is  the  sesthetics,  not  the  dialectics 
of  Christianity  that  concern  them.  Rossetti's  poetry  there- 
fore denotes  a  break  in  the  poetic  traditions  of  the  age. 

Dante  Gabriel  Rossetti. — In  two  of  his  poems,  Jenny,  and 
The  Burden  of  Nineveh,  he  touches  certain  aspects  of  modern 
life ;  but  with  this  exception  his  poetry,  like  that  of  Keats,  is 
a  world  apart — a  world  of  mystic  beauty  and  romance. 

It  must  always  be  remembered  Rossetti  was  half  Italian  in 
temperament,  and  although  his  fervent  love  poetry  may  repel 
many  by  its  sensuous  frankness,  it  never  justified  Robert 
Buchanan's  bitter  attack.  For  it  is  sensuous,  not  sensual. 
To  the  Italian  mind  the  human  body  is  as  sacred  as  the  mind, 
and  the  senses  are  sacramental  emblems  of  the  spirit.  Italian 
love  poetry,  therefore,  however  fevered  and  voluptuous  it  may 
be,  is  never  gross  or  base  ;  since  it  does  not  extol  the  senses 
at  the  expense  of  the  soul,  but  glorifies  the  soul  through  the 
senses. 

Christina  Rossetti. — The  devout  faith  of  Christina  Rossetti 
removes  her  from  the  pagan  romanticism  of  her  brother  and 
William  Morris.  With  less  variety  and  depth  of  passion  than 
Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning,  she  is  a  greater  artist.  Her 
work  lacks  the  fundamental  brain  power  of  her  brother,  but 
has  on  the  whole  greater  clarity.  In  two  only  of  Dante 
Gabriel  Rossetti's  poems,  The  Blessed  Damozel  and  My  Sister's 
Sleep,  does  he  achieve  the  lucent  simplicity  of  his  sister  ;  and 
in  her  charming  Goblin  Market  she  touches  a  note  of  fantasy 
almost  Shakespearean  in  its  convincing  magic. 


THE  VICTORIAN  ERA  95 

The  mystic  aspects  of  medievalism  appealed  to  Rossetti 
much  as  they  appealed  to  Coleridge.  And  if  Coleridge  and 
Rossetti  approximate  in  this,  so  do  Scott  and  William  Morris, 
in  preferring  the  broader  and  more  spectacular  side  of  the  life 
of  the  Middle  Ages. 

William  Morris. — William  Morris  was  in  reality  a  great 
artist  who  wrote  verse  as  one  of  many  media  for  expressing  his 
innate  sense  of  beauty,  for  it  was  certainly  a  moot  point  at 
times  whether  the  outcome  of  Morris's  inspiration  would  be 
a  poem  or  a  wall-paper.  His  well-known  dictum,  that  a  man 
who  was  unable  to  turn  from  an  epic  to  a  tapestry  had  better 
leave  both  alone,  is  finely  characteristic.  He  could  do  either 
so  well  that  he  often  merged  the  one  into  the  other.  He 
wove  his  epic  with  the  craftsman's  cunning,  and  wrote  his 
stories  in  coloured  silks.  His  best  work  in  verse  reads  like 
happy  improvisations,  while  his  unerring  instinct  for  beauty 
and  his  mastery  of  metrical  form  kept  him  free  from  the  pit- 
falls of  the  fluent  rhymester.  Even  more  than  Scott,  Morris 
loved  the  Middle  Ages  for  their  human  elements ;  the  demo- 
cratic note  is  always  insistent,  and  a  fundamental  sympathy 
with  "simple  folk  not  troubled  with  the  intricacies  of  life," 
unites  Morris  the  Poet  with  Morris  the  Social  Reformer. 
There  is  an  ease,  a  naturalness  in  his  narrative  work,  and  in 
his  power  to  tell  a  good  story  in  verse,  lucidly  and  simply ; 
he  has  no  equal  save  Chaucer. 

The  common  criticism  of  Morris's  poetry,  that  there  are  no 
mountain  peaks  in  it,  is  true  enough,  but  like  all  negative 
criticism  misses  the  peculiar  beauty  of  his  work.  He  flies  low, 
purposely,  designedly.  In  keeping  close  to  the  earth,  as  he 
does  in  his  delightful  re-telling  of  Mediaeval,  Greek,  and 
Scandinavian  stories  in  Jason,  The  Earthly  Paradise,  Sigurd,  and 
Love  is  Enough,  Morris  provides  us  with  many  compensations 
for  the  lack  of  rhythmic  felicities  in  his  work;  none1  more 
welcome  than  the  fresh  sweetness  and  level  excellence  of  his 
work  as  a  whole0 

There  is  one  poetic  quality  in  which  the  Rossettis  and 
Morris  are  deficient — lyric  power.  That  quality  is  supplied  by 
the  youngest  of  the  pre-Raphaelite  Poets— ALGERNON  CHARLES 
SWINBURNE.  He  was  indeed,  as  Tennyson  happily  said,  "  a  reed 
through  which  all  things  blow  into  music. >?  The  appeal^f  the 
others  had  been  chiefly  to  the  eye ;  their  art  was  essentially 
pictorial.  Swinburne,  like  Shelley,  appeals  chiefly  to  the  ear. 
Indeed  his  music  is  grander  than  Shelley's.  Shelley's  melodies 
are  sweet  and  simple :  Swinburne's  complex  orchestral  effects. 
Atalanta  in  Calydon  took  the  Victorian  world  by  storm  ;  in  its 


96     A  HISTOKY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

sweeping  power  and  stirring  strains  it  struck  an  entirely 
fresh  note  in  the  poetry  of  the  time.  The  publication  of  Poems 
and  Ballads,  with  its  frank  eroticism,  two  years  later,  checked 
the  chorus  of  praise.  But  these  were  merely  literary  "  wild 
oats  "  sown  by  the  youthful  poet,  and  in  rhythmic  power  this 
book  is  even  greater  than  its  predecessor.  The  second  volume 
of  Poems  and  Ballads  finally  confirmed  the  great  lyrical  repu- 
tation of  Swinburne.  His  work  touches  every  key  of  song 
from  verses  light  and  enchanting  as  fairy  music,  such  as  : 

"  For  a  day  and  a  night  Love  sang  to  us,  played  with  us, 

Folded  us  round  from  the  dark  and  the  light ; 
And  our  hearts  were  fulfilled  of  the  music  he  made  with  us, 

Made  with  our  hearts  and  our  lips  while  he  stayed  with  us, 
Stayed  in  mid  passage  his  pinions  from  flight 
For  a  day  and  a  night," 

to  the  sombre  splendour  of — 

"  So  long  I  endure,  no  longer ;  and  laugh  not  again,  neither  weep — 
For  there  is  no  good  found  stronger  than  death;  and  death  is 
a  sleep." 

Swinburne's  is  the  last  word  of  the  romantic  reaction.  It  is 
pre-Raphaelitism  in  its  most  exultant  and  defiant  mood,  and 
with  it  the  era  of  great  Victorian  poetry  comes  to  a  close. 

Of  the  lesser  constellations  of  the  age  it  is  impossible  to 
speak  save  in  the  briefest  terms.  Thomas  Hood,  of  whose 
serious  work  mention  has  been  made,  made  his  reputation  as  a 
versifier  of  ingenious  comic  invention,  exhibiting,  moreover,  a 
vein  of  delicate  fancy  in  The  Plea  of  the  Midsummer  Fairies,  and 
a  graphic  power  in  his  grim  Dream  of  Eugene  Aram.  While 
Charles  Kingsley  proved  himself  a  lyric  poet  of  the  people, 
who  brought  passion  and  fine  sensibility  into  such  songs  as 
The  Three  Fishers,  and  The  Sands  tf  Dee.  James  Thomson's 
City  of  Dreadful  Night  shows  the  influence  of  the  sceptical 
tendencies  of  the  day  upon  a  sensitive  and  morbid  mind. 

Humour  and  Satire. — The  growth  of  a  more  critical  attitude 
towards  current  political  and  social  conventions  is  responsible 
for  a  cluster  of  light  humorous  versifiers  and  satirists,  among 
them  William  Mackworth  Praed,  who  is  a  nineteenth-century 
Prior  in  his  skilful  treatment  of  vers  de  socie'te,  and  Richard  Harris 
Barham,  with  his  once  popular  Inyoldsby  Legends  ;  whilst  C.  S. 
Calverley,  J.  K.  Stephen,  continue  with  fine  scholarly  power  the 
art  of  parody,  happily  inaugurated  by  James  and  Horace  Smith 
in  the  famous  Rejected  Addresses  so  admired  by  one  of  its  victims 
Byron.  To-day  the  light  brigade  of  verse  has  become  a  regiment 


THE  VICTORIAN   ERA  97 

including  such  accomplished  swordsmen  as  Andrew  Lang, 
Mr,  Edmund  Gosse,  Mr.  Austin  Dobson,  and  Mr.  Owen  Seaman. 

A  little  apart  from  these,  because  of  his  richer  fantasy  and 
more  whimsical  charm,  is  Lewis  Carroll  (Charles  Lutwidge 
Dodgson),  whose  unrivalled  medleys,  Alice  in  Wonderland  and 
Tlirough  the  Looking-Glass,  and  that  delicious  extravaganza,  The 
Hunting  of  the  Snark,  added  at  once  to  the  gaiety  of  the  school- 
room and  the  library.  In  logical  absurdities  and  topsy-turvy 
humour  he  has  no  peer  save  W.  S.  Gilbert. 

Philosophic  Verse. — The  intellectual  life  and  philosophic 
preoccupations  of  the  mid-century  find  cultured  expression  in 
Sir  Henry  Taylor ;  the  Festus  of  Philip  James  Bailey,  and  the 
Orion  of  Richard  Hengist  Home.  Greater  than  either  in 
thought  is  GEORGE  MEREDITH,  whose  lyrical  vein  found  delight- 
ful expression  in  Love  in  a  Valley,  and  Juggling  Jerry;  although 
in  the  bulk  of  his  poems,  as  with  Browning,  it  is  the  matter 
rather  than  the  manner  that  counts.  In  other  words,  he  thinks 
rather  than  sings  in  verse. 

Two  poets  with  a  special  vogue  of  their  own,  are  EDWARD 
FITZGERALD  and  Coventry  Patmore.  Fitzgerald  voices,  with 
great  artistic  beauty  and  the  light  touch  of  a  Horace,  the 
sceptical  thought  of  his  day  in  his  famous  translation  of  The 
Rubaiydt  of  Omar  Khayyam,  which  Browning  essayed  to  answer 
in  Rabbi  Ben  Ezra.  While  Patmore,  standing  apart  both  from 
the  intellectual  movement  and  the  pre-Raphaelites,  developed 
a  gift  of  verse  more  akin  to  Wordsworth's  than  any  other  poet, 
in  its  simple,  dignified  treatment  of  homely  themes. 

2.  FICTION 

The  extraordinary  development  of  fiction  in  the  eighteenth 
century  seemed  to  have  reached  its  zenith  in  Scott,  who  com- 
bined in  his  work  the  qualities  of  the  old  time  romance  and 
the  realistic  novel  of  Fielding.  For  a  brief  space  the  imagina- 
tive genius  of  the  age  flowed  in  the  channels  of  verse.  But 
the  lull  was  brief.  The  conditions  of  modern  life  clamoured 
for  their  story-tellers,  and  the  Victorian  novel  came  into  exist- 
ence and  showed  what  unexplored  potentialities  had  been  left 
undeveloped.  The  brilliant  succession  of  novelists  that  started 
with  Charles  Dickens  and  closed  with  Thomas  Hardy,  left 
scarcely  any  aspect  of  modern  existence  untouched. 

Middle-class  ideals  had  found  expression  in  eighteenth-cen- 
tury fiction,  but  meanwhile  a  vast  class  was  growing  up  that 
found  no  articulate  expression  in  imaginative  literature.  Words- 
worth and  Crabbe  had  dealt  with  the  lives  of  the  country  poor, 

G 


98     A   HISTOEY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

and  Cobbett  had  voiced  their  grievances  in  his  vigorous  prose. 
But  the  London  poor  had  no  spokesman  until  Dickens  came 
upon  the  scene.  From  the  very  start  he  held  a  brief  for  the 
humbler  classes  of  the  community,  and  there  were  few  phases 
of  struggling  city  life  which  he  did  not  paint,  very  often  with 
the  pigments  of  personal  experience.  To  some  he  is  merely  a 
popular  writer  of  rich  comic  invention ;  to  others  an  earnest 
social  reformer.  But  neither  of  these  pre-suppositions  is  suffi- 
cient to  account  for  his  persistent  fame  and  popularity. 

Charles  Dickens.— He  appealed,  and  still  appeals,  primarily 
because  he  deals  with  the  large  simplicities  of  life.  He  is  the 
great  story-teller  of  the  common  lives  of  common  people ; 
great,  because,  though  dealing  continually  with  little  worries, 
little  pleasures,  little  hardships,  he  made  the  dullest  of  lives 
in  the  drabbest  of  streets  as  enchanting  as  a  fairy  tale.  In 
his  hands  the  squalor  of  Lant  Street  becomes  a  fearful  joy, 
and  we  would  not  exchange  his  impecunious  Bohemians  for  all 
the  heroes  of  mythology.  No  one  shows  better  than  he  that 
a  basic  affinity  with  suffering  lies  at  the  root  of  the  richest 
laughter.  From  Pickwick  to  David  Copperfield  Dickens  followed, 
in  the  form  of  his  stories,  the  loose  picaresque  methods  of  the 
elder  novelists.  In  the  manner  of  his  satire  also  he  owed  some- 
thing both  to  Fielding  and  Smollett.  But  his  literary  debts 
are  few  and  slight,  and  he  was  indebted  chiefly  to  his  own  genius, 
and  to  those  astounding  powers  of  observation  which  kept  in 
check  (sometimes  with  difficulty)  his  fantastic  imagination. 
After  David  Copperfield,  and  largely  through  the  influence  of 
his  friend  Wilkie  Collins,  a  master  in  the  art  of  construction, 
his  stories  are  more  closely  riveted  together.  It  is  question- 
able, however,  whether  the  freer  latitude  of  his  earlier  books 
did  not  afford  more  fertile  scope  for  his  splendid  discursiveness. 
After  all,  he  was  rarely  more  enjoyable  than  when  absolutely 
irrelevant.  Who  of  his  admirers  would  not  exchange  the 
elaborate  plot  of  Bleak  House  for  another  Mrs.  Nickleby,  or 
the  mystery  behind  Edwin  Drood  for  the  profounder  mystery 
of  Mr.  Micawber's  colonial  experiences  ?  But  if  flagging  in 
humorous  invention  and  easy  exuberance,  the  later  books  are 
fully  as  rich  in  observation  of  London  types  and  London  sights  ; 
while  in  Great  Expectations  is  provided  a  worthy  companion 
picture  to  David  Copperfield.  It  is  drawn  on  a  smaller  scale 
and  is  set  in  a  more  subdued  key.  But  he  never  did  anything 
better  in  characterisation  than  the  wholly  delightful  Joe 
Gargery  and  the  egregious  Pumbiechook. 

Thackeray. — His  friend  and  contemporary,  William  Make- 
peace Thackeray,  has  this  in  common  with  him,  that  he  too 


THE  VICTOKIAN  ERA  99 

approaches  the  town  life  of  his  day  from  the  standpoint  of  the 
humorist ;  there  the  comparison  ends.  As  a  painter  of  social 
life  he  is  the  complement,  not  the  rival,  of  Dickens.  Dickens 
deals  largely  with  the  lower  middle  and  poorer  classes  of  the 
community ;  Thackeray  with  the  middle  and  "  upper  "  classes. 
Dickens  was  frankly  a  class-man,  and  wrote  as  one  who  had 
risen  from  the  people.  He  had  neither  the  same  opportunity, 
nor  indeed  the  wish,  for  learning  the  ways  of  the  richer  and 
more  exclusive  circles  of  society.  Thackeray  loved  good 
society — not  from  any  snobbishness,  but  because  an  atmosphere 
of  comfort  and  culture  suited  his  temperament ;  and  he  is  at 
his  best  in  dealing  with  that  section  of  society.  He  did  for 
the  aristocrat  and  clubman  what  Dickens  did  for  the  street 
vagrant  and  small  shopkeeper — gave  them  a  place  in  the 
pages  of  literature. 

Thackeray's  intellectual  sympathies  were  with  the  late 
eighteenth  century  rather  than  with  his  own  day ;  and  his  fine 
historical  novel,  Esmond,  is  less  a  literary  experiment  than  a 
congenial  expression  of  temperament.  The  title  of  his  most 
popular  work,  Vanity  Fair,  symbolises  his  own  attitude  towards 
Victorian  society  j  intensely  sensitive,  he  often  hides  his  real 
feelings,  as  sensitive  men  do,  under  an  appearance  of  cynicism, 
but  he  was  no  cynic  at  heart.  He  is  a  powerful  social  satirist, 
along  well-defined  lines,  and  an  accomplished  though  scarcely 
catholic  literary  critic.  But  his  work  as  a  whole,  though 
sometimes  superior  in  craftsmanship,  lacks  the  splendid 
whimsicality  and  large  humanity  of  Dickens. 

Charlotte  Bronte. — While  Dickens  and  Thackeray  were 
vitalising  town  life,  Charlotte  Bronte  in  her  lonely  northern 
home  was  finding  literary  outlet  for  the  aspirations  and 
longings  of  sensitive  insurgent  womanhood.  How  familiar  the 
phrase  to-day  !  How  unfamiliar  in  the  days  when  Jane  Eyre 
first  took  the  public  by  storm  I  Reserved  and  shy  by  nature, 
she  found  no  means  of  expressing  herself  except  with  pen  in 
hand.  Then  she  bares  her  inmost  thoughts  and  feelings.  A 
greater  contrast  with  the  other  literary  daughter  of  a  clergyman 
in  the  south  it  would  be  hard  to  imagine.  To  Jane  Austen 
life  is  a  comedy ;  it  is  a  tragedy  to  Charlotte  Bronte.  Jane 
Austen's  pictures  are  delicate  water-colour  miniatures ; 
Charlotte  Bronte's  are  oil  paintings  in  the  school  of  Rembrandt. 
Jane  is  severely  objective  in  her  art,  detaching  herself  from 
her  subject-matter.  Charlotte  is  passionately  subjective  and 
confidential ;  so  confidential  that  the  reader  sometimes  feels 
as  if  he  had  overheard  things  not  meant  for  utterance,  but 
somehow  forced  from  the  writer  under  great  stress  of  emotion. 


100     A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

As  a  literary  artist  Charlotte  Bronte  excels  in  stormy  effects, 
whether  in  portraying  emotional  states  of  mind,  which  she 
renders  with  wonderful  sincerity  and  subtlety,  or  in  depicting 
phases  of  nature.  What  could  be  happier  in  its  fine  observa- 
tion than  the  description  of  the  Yorkshire  moors — "washed 
from  the  world  "  in  "  whitening  sheets  of  rain." 

Emily  Bronte. — A  more  remarkable  personality  is  her 
sister,  Emily  Bronte,  in  whom  the  wildness  and  loneliness  of 
the  Yorkshire  moors  seem  to  become  personified.  Her  book, 
Wuthering  Heights,  in  sheer  force  of  imagination  is  greater 
than  anything  of  Charlotte's,  and  her  verse  is  finer  ;  but  there 
is  greater  variety  in  Charlotte's  work,  and  a  more  plastic  art. 

The  Brontes'  great  biographer,  Mrs.  Gaskell,  is  less  individual 
and  intimate  in  her  stories,  dealing  more  generally  with  the 
broad  social  aspects  of  contemporary  life.  Especially  good  are 
her  studies  of  life  in  the  industrial  North — notably  Mary  Barton. 
Her  versatility  is  shown  in  such  a  quaint  picture  as  Cranford, 
which  reproduces  the  old-world  charm  of  Miss  Mitford's  Our 
Village,  without  being  in  the  least  sense  an  imitation. 

George  Eliot. — George  Eliot  (Mary  Ann  Evans),  like 
Tennyson,  is  suffering  from  the  swing  of  the  pendulum.  Once 
regarded  as  one  of  our  greatest  novelists,  her  books  are 
scarcely  read  at  all  by  the  present  generation.  And  yet  she 
is  an  important  historic  figure  in  the  development  of  the 
English  novel,  with  a  body  of  work  to  her  credit  of  solid 
lasting  value. 

She  was  the  first  novelist  to  lay  the  stress  wholly  upon 
character  rather  than  on  incident. 

Deeply  touched  by  the  scientific  influence  of  the  age,  especially 
by  Spencer  and  Comte,  she  approached  her  work  in  quite  another 
spirit  from  the  Brontes.  She  never  flung  an  emotional  problem 
at  her  readers,  but  traced  its  source  with  patient  acuteness, 
made  clear  to  you  its  various  confluences.  She  excelled  in  the 
spiritual  geography  of  hopes,  fears,  and  loves.  Her  intimate 
knowledge  of  English  country  life  is  used  freely  and  with  rich 
effect  in  her  best  work — in  Adam  Bede,  The  Mill  on  the  Floss,  Silas 
Marner,  and  Middlemarch.  She  challenges  comparison  here  with 
Jane  Austen,  yet  how  different  their  method  !  Jane  Austen  is 
photographic  in  her  fidelity,  but  an  observer  always,  never  a 
critic.  One  always  feels  the  presence  of  the  critic  and  the 
thinker  in  George  Eliot's  work.  The  difference  will  be  the  more 
readily  apprehended  if  we  compare  the  speeches  of  Miss  Bates 
in  Emma  with  those  of  Aunt  Pullet  in  The  Mill  on  the  Floss.  "We 
can  feel  her  amused  tolerance  with  the  foibles  of  her  characters, 
hear  at  times  her  sotto  voce  comments.  For  tolerant  she  is  always ; 


THE   VICTORIAN    KPA  101 

there  is  no  novelist  with  a  more  gracious  breadth  of  sympathy 
than  she ;  while  her  fine  sense  of  humour  gives  delightful  point 
and  freshness  to  her  provincial  settings.  She  served  no  appren- 
ticeship to  fiction ;  her  novels  show  very  little  intellectual  or 
artistic  development.  Janet's  Repentance,  in  her  first  volume,  has 
the  freshness  and  insight  of  her  best  work— on  a  limited  scale. 
Of  all  her  novels,  Adam  Bede  has  been  the  most  popular  ;  but 
for  tenderness  and  idyllic  charm  it  must  give  place  to  The  Mill 
on  the  Floss,  for  artistic  beauty  to  Silas  Marner,  and  for  wealth 
of  characterisation  to  Middlemarch.  Daniel  Deronda  has  proved 
a  stumbling-block  to  many  readers,  and  here  undoubtedly  the 
wheels  of  her  chariot  drive  heavily.  But  a  tale  that  contains 
the  powerfully  handled  episode  of  Grandcourt  and  Gwendolen 
Harleth  is  certainly  not  negligible. 

George  Meredith. — While  the  literary  world  was  vigorously 
applauding  Adam  Bede,  The  Ordeal  of  Richard  Feverel,  published 
in  the  same  year,  was  passed  by  with  scarcely  any  comment. 
George  Eliot,  whose  acute  critical  faculty  proved  so  valuable  an 
asset  to  the  Westminster  Review,  had  been  the  first  to  extend 
generous  recognition  to  the  humour  and  imaginative  charm  of 
The  Shaving  of  Shagpat;  but  Meredith,  like  Browning,  was  the 
cult  of  a  few  before  he  became  the  fashion  of  the  many.  His 
limited  vogue  is  not  surprising,  for,  despite  his  keen  intellect 
and  ardent  imagination,  his  style  presents  often  disconcerting 
difficulties  to  the  average  reader. 

His  books  are  best  read  in  the  light  of  his  brilliantly  sugges- 
tive Essay  on  the  Comic  Spirit.  What  makes  his  satire  so  whole- 
some is  the  fact  that  behind  it  all  there  is  a  warm  poetic  imagi- 
nation. Severe  on  all  superficialities  of  thought  and  feeling, 
he  never  mocks  at  true  romance.  There  is  one  noble  sentence 
of  his  that  strikes  the  keynote  of  all  his  psychology  :  "  You  may 
estimate  your  capacity  for  comic  perception  by  being  able  to 
detect  the  ridicule  of  them  you  love  without  loving  them  less." 
And  so  far  as  his  philosophy  of  life  can  be  put  into  a  phrase,  it 
is  here :  "  We  do  not  get  to  any  heaven  by  renouncing  the  mother 
we  sprang  from  ;  and  when  there  is  an  eternal  secret  for  us,  it  is 
best  to  believe  that  Earth  knows,  to  keep  near  her  even  in  our 
utmost  aspiration." 

Contemporary  with  George  Eliot  and  the  early  years  of 
Meredith  is  Anthony  Trollope,  a  writer  of  immense  popularity 
in  his  time.  Without  the  genius  of  the  great  Victorians,  he 
showed  himself  to  be  a  craftsman  of  great  ability,  and  in  the 
Barsetshire  novels  he  has  given  us  a  picture  of  English  pro- 
vincial life  in  a  cathedral  town,  remarkable  for  shrewd  observa- 
tion of  character  and  a  lively  if  not  very  subtle  humour.  One 


102    A  HISTORY-  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

illustrious  character  at  least  he  added  to  the  gallery  of  the 
immortals  of  fiction,  the  awe-inspiring  Mrs.  Proudie. 

The  last  great  Victorian  novelist,  however,  is  Mr.  THOMAS 
HARDY,  who  in  his  later  years  has  returned  to  verse  writing. 
Interesting  and  vital  as  his  poetry  is,  it  is  as  a  story-teller 
of  life  in  the  south-west  of  England  that  he  will  be  best 
remembered. 

Deriving  to  some  extent  from  George  Eliot,  and  from  the  work 
of  the  French  Realistic  school,  his  fiction  bears  the  distinctive 
impress  of  an  original  and  highly  sensitive  mind.  Lacking  the 
intellectual  vigour  and  plasticity  of  Meredith,  he  is  an  incom- 
parably better  story-teller,  with  a  spacious,  deliberate  manner, 
and  a  rare  insight  into  simple,  uncultured,  elemental  natures. 
He  has  little  interest  in  the  jostling  crowds  of  the  city  which 
attracted  Dickens  and  Thackeray,  or  for  the  complexities  of  man 
as  a  civilised  animal,  which  fascinated  Meredith.  To  depict  the 
primal  things  of  life  ;  to  dally  with  old-world  customs  ;  to  paint 
men  and  women  as  the  inevitable  outcome  of  a  certain  environ- 
ment, that  was  the  aim  of  Hardy.  He  is  a  dweller  in  Arcadia, 
but  not  the  Arcadia  of  Wordsworth  and  Scott.  There  is  nothing 
of  Rousseau's  idealism  in  his  pictures  of  nature  ;  rather  is  it  the 
tragedies  and  ironies  of  country  life  upon  which  he  elects  to 
dwell ;  though  in  his  earlier  books — e.g.  Under  the  Greenwood  Tree, 
and  Far  from  the  Madding  Crowd — these  are  lightened  by  a  de- 
lightful humour.  His  excessive  sensitiveness  to  the  "  still  sad 
music  of  humanity  "  imparts  a  depressing  atmosphere  to  many 
of  his  later  novels.  But  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  he  will 
take  his  place  among  our  greatest  novelists  by  virtue  of  the 
high  artistic  beauty  of  his  best  work,  and  his  consummate  power 
of  actualising  subtle  impressions  and  fleeting  moods. 

The  last  characteristic  finds  an  exponent  of  quite  another 
temperament  in  Mr.  Henry  James  ;  but  Mr.  James  expends 
his  subtle  psychology  chiefly  upon  the  cultured  classes.  Two 
other  psychological  novelists  of  distinction  are  John  Oliver 
Hobbes  (Mrs.  Craigie)  and  Mrs.  Humphry  Ward.  The  first 
has  a  Gallic  wit  and  sense  of  style  denied  to  her  contemporary  ; 
but  Mrs.  Ward's  work  has  more  solid  qualities,  and  she  has 
given  us  some  thoughtful  and  vigorous  pictures  of  modern 
English  life  and  thought.  To-day  the  character  novel  is 
leavened  with  sociology,  as  in  the  work  of  that  versatile  writer 
Mr.  H.  G.  Wells. 

The  realistic  school,  that  had  so  remarkable  a  vogue  in 
France,  headed  by  Zola,  has  found  no  very  secure  place  in 
English  literature,  though  it  has  influenced  some  of  our  story- 
tellers. Mr.  George  Moore  is  the  ablest  of  the  English  "  real- 


THE  VICTORIAN   ERA  103 

ists,"  and  his  Mummer's  Wife  and  Esther  Waters  are  among  the 
best  of  their  kind. 

Less  powerful,  but  none  the  less  faithful  presentations  of 
phases  of  middle-class  lives  are  the  stories  of  George  Gissing. 
He  was  a  fine  man  of  letters,  rarely  able  to  do  justice  to  his 
artistic  power. 

Turning  now  from  the  character  novel  to  the  story  of 
incident,  we  find  ourselves  in  the  midst  of  a  multitude  of 
writers  from  whom  it  is  possible  only  to  select  a  few  repre- 
sentative names.  Incident  pure  and  simple  such  as  we  find  in 
earlier  fiction,  the  military  stories  of  Charles  Lever  and  the 
naval  yarns  of  Marryat,  are  rare  in  Victorian  times.  Even 
born  romancers  like  Charles  Kingsley  are  drawn  for  a  while 
into  the  social  vortex  of  the  hour.  Agricultural  problems  are 
set  forth  in  Yeast;  industrial  defects  in  Alton  Locke.  But  his 
picturesque  pen  finds  greater  artistic  scope  in  the  patriotic 
romance  of  Westward  Ho,  in  the  tale  of  the  break-up  of  the 
Roman  Empire^  Hypatia,  and  in  the  invigorating  fantasy  for 
children,  The  Water  Babies.  Similar  in  his  gifts,  and  in  the 
opinion  of  many,  a  better  story-teller,  was  his  brother  Henry 
Kingsley,  whose  EavensJwe  retains  its  popularity  even  to-day. 

With  a  large  measure  of  Charles  Kingsley's  lively  imagina- 
tion, something  also  of  his  inequality  as  an  artist,  is  Charles 
Reade.  Starting  as  a  writer  of  plays,  he  rarely  forgot  the 
limelight  when  he  turned  to  fiction ;  but  he  had,  at  his  best,  in 
common  with  his  greater  contemporary  Dickens,  dramatic 
power  and  intensity  of  a  high  order.  This  it  is  which  makes 
the  reader  forget  at  times  the  inordinate  length  of  The  Cloister 
and  the  Hearth — an  historical  romance  of  splendid  episodic 
force — and  gives  colour  and  interest  to  It's  Never  too  Late  to 
Mend,  Foul  Play,  and  Hard  Cash,  where  the  story-teller  ex- 
hibits in  turn  prison  abuses,  convict  life  in  Australia,  and  the 
treatment  of  the  insane.  With  many  of  the  gifts  of  the 
romancer  Reade  combined  enormous  industry  in  getting  up 
his  case,  and  an  indomitable  humanitarian  zeal.  His  friend 
Wilkie  Collins,  in  his  social  sympathies  resembled  Reade,  but 
his  abilities  as  a  writer  ran  in  directions  apart  from  the  novel 
with  a  purpose.  Of  all  Victorian  novelists  he  is  perhaps  the 
most  neglected  to-day,  yet  he  is,  as  a  weaver  of  complicated 
plots,,  unequalled  among  English  writers.  He  had  what  his 
French  rival,  Gaboriau,  mostly  lacked,  a  real  sense  of  character. 
In  his  best  books,  The  Woman  in  White,  After  Dark,  The  Moon- 
stone,  Armadale,  and  No  Name,  he  shows  imaginative  power  of 
a  high  order. 

Another  type  of  novelist  who  romanticised  the  less  familiar 


104    A  HISTORY   OF   ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

actualities  of  ordinary  life,  is  illustrated  by  George  Borrow. 
His  knowledge  of  gipsy  life,  which  his  peculiar  temperament 
gave  him  unusual  opportunities  of  studying,  imparts  a  dis- 
tinctive flavour  to  his  attractive  vagrant  stories,  Lavengro,  The 
Romany  Rye,  and  The  Bible  in  Spain.  As  agent  for  the  Bible 
Society  he  had  opportunities  for  travel  which  afforded  him 
rich  material  for  his  tales.  These  are,  in  the  main,  imaginative 
autobiographies.  Another  writer  who  made  the  gipsy  a  live 
thing  in  fiction  is  the  poet  and  critic  Mr.  Watts-Dunton,  whose 
Aylwin  is  at  once  a  fine  discursive  romance  and  an  interest- 
ing picture  of  contemporary  literary  life. 

Honest,  straightforward  romancers  with  a  good  story  to  tell 
were  William  Black  and  Sir  Walter  Besant,  while  on  a  higher 
imaginative  plane  is  R.  D.  Blackmore  ;  and  the  name  of  J.  H. 
Shorthouse  is  associated  with  one  striking  historical  novel, 
John  Inglesant. 

Among  the  crowd  of  story-tellers  who  kept,  like  Wilkie 
Collins,  more  to  everyday  life  with  judicious  seasoning  of 
melodrama,  the  familiar  names  of  Miss  Braddon  and  Mrs. 
Henry  Wood  detach  themselves  readily.  Turgid  and  artificial 
in  her  pictures  of  "high  life,"  but  with  real  though  un- 
disciplined imagination,  is  the  prolific  and  once  widely  read 
"Ouida." 

In  George  MacDonald  we  have  a  healthy  Scottish  novelist 
of  no  special  distinction,  and  a  Gaelic  romancer  with  a  touch 
of  genius,  whose  fantasies  for  children  have  never  been  rivalled 
save  by  the  incomparable  Hans  Andersen.  On  the  Back  of  the 
North  Wind,  The  Princess  and  the  Goblin,  and  Phantasies,  are 
among  the  very  best  of  their  kind.  Mrs.  Oliphant,  a  prolific 
and  versatile  writer,  and  contributor  to  Blackwootfs  Magazine, 
touched  at  times  a  high  level  of  excellence — notably  in  The 
Beleaguered  City. 

Three  names  claiming  more  special  attention  are  ROBERT 
Louis  STEVENSON,  whose  piquant  blend  of  humour  and  imagina- 
tive exuberance  finds  characteristic  expression  in  The  j\Teiv 
Arabian  Nights ;  William  Morris,  who  fashioned  his  Utopian 
dreams  from  the  best  elements  of  medievalism ;  and  the 
earlier  Rudyard  Kipling,  who  gave  his  realistic  pictures  of 
Anglo-Indian  life  a  fascinating  background  of  oriental  mystery. 
Both  Stevenson  and  Morris  were  stylists  of  a  high  order  who 
did  much  for  the  beautifying  of  English  prose.  Morris, 
however,  deliberately  eschewed  humour  in  his  romances,  and 
both  Stevenson  and  Kipling  achieve  some  of  their  most 
characteristic  effects  by  means  of  it.  There  is  a  good  deal  of 
the  eternal  child  in  both  Stevenson  and  Morris.  Stevenson 


THE  VICTORIAN  ERA  105 

approached  romance  much  in  the  mood  of  the  "  young  man  with 
the  cream  tarts  "  ;  while  the  gusto  and  high  spirits  of  Tr< 
Island  are  readily  communicated  to  the  reader.  Morris's 
frank  delight  in  the  healthy  actualities  and  the  wistful  idealism 
of  youth  untouched  by  the  preoccupation  of  the  civilised  man 
is  one  of  the  chief  charms  of  such  fascinating  literature  as  The 
Dream  of  John  Ball  and  The  Wood  beyond  the  World.  His  frank, 
pagan  love  of  the  earth  and  its  beauty  finds  a  counterpart  in 
the  rhythmic  prose  of  Richard  Jefferies,  whose  Life  of  the  Fields, 
and  pictures  of  country  sights  and  sounds  in  Southern  England, 
are  in  literary  descent  from  Gilbert  White's  Selborne,  and 
claim  imaginative  affinity  with  Thoreau's  Walden. 

Morris's  romances,  like  his  poetry,  are  something  apart  from 
the  trend  of  Victorian  fiction.  Stevenson,  however,  found 
successors  on  the  historical  side  in  Mr.  Quiller  Couch, 
Mr.  Anthony  Hope_,  and  Mr.  Stanley  Weyman,  to  mention 
a  few  of  the  most  notable  ;  while  Mr.  Maurice  Hewlett  cer- 
tainly derives  from  him  in  part. 

3.  HISTORY  AND  CRITICISM 

The  work  of  THOMAS  CARLYLE  belongs  only  in  part  to  the 
Victorian  Era,  but  with  the  exception  01  Sartor  Resartus  his 
most  characteristic  work  was  published  during  that  time.  The 
French  Revolution  appeared  in  1837,  and  1865  saw  the  intrepid 
veteran  emerging  from  what  Mrs.  Carlyle  humorously  and  not 
unfittingly  called  "The  Valley  of  the  Shadow  of  Frederic." 
During  the  early  years  of  struggle  at  Ecclefechan  he  did  much 
to  familiarise  English  readers  with  German  literature.  But 
his  first  characteristic  utterance  is  Sartor  Resartus,  where  his 
emphatic  but  negative  gospel  may  be  found.  It  is  in  essence 
a  tilt  against  shams  of  every  kind,  expressed  in  the  form  of  an 
assumed  record  about  Teufelsdrockh  and  his  "philosophy  of 
clothes," — a  notion  borrowed  from  Swift.  The  French  Revolution 
which  followed  was  in  itself  a  revolution  in  the  making  of  a 
history.  In  form  only  is  it  a  prose  history  ;  in  essence  it  is  a 
poetic  rhapsody  on  the  elemental  forces  that  make  for  social 
disintegration.  The  book  made  his  name,  though  not  his 
fortune.  Later  came  Heroes  and  Hero  Worship,  from  which 
emerged  definitely  his  admiration  of  might — wherever  he  found 
it ;  and  the  tendency  to  associate  might  with  right,  which  led 
him  to  bestow  the  aureole,  at  times,  on  some  sorry  saints. 

Among  Carlyle's  miscellaneous  and  political  essays  none 
struck  a  fresher  note  than  the  well-known  eulogy  of  the  Middle 
Ages  in  Past  and  Present,  while  his  work  on  Cromwell  is  the 


106     A  HISTOEY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

finest  piece  of  effective  special  pleading  for  puritanism  that  we 
have.  As  a  stylist  he  reminds  us  of  his  propinquity  with  the 
romantic  movement.  It  is  prose  in  revolt  against  eighteenth- 
century  canons ;  prose  as  idiosyncratic  as  that  of  Hazlitt  and 
Lamb.  Violent  and  chaotic  often,  it  is  amazingly  vivid  and 
ardent  ;  with  a  grim  and  savage  grandeur  at  times  that  takes 
the  reader  by  the  throat. 

The  humorist  in  Carlyle  must  not  be  overlooked.  He  is  not 
a  genial  humorist  like  Dickens,  or  a  whimsical  one  like  Lamb, 
but  a  trenchant  sardonic  one,  and  this  gives  a  sharp  relish  to 
the  abundance  of  luminous  criticism  which  his  writings  contain. 
For  all  his  psean  on  brute  force,  and  the  harsh  impatience 
which  animates  many  of  his  social  strictures,  he  had  a  strain 
of  deep  tenderness  in  his  nature,  and  if  "  gey  ill  to  live  wi'/' 
was  a  loyal  friend,  and  at  bottom  a  great-hearted  man. 

History  in  Carlyle's  view  was — Biography  writ  large.  The 
great  man  made  the  age.  The  opposite  view  was  expressed 
by  his  contemporary  Buckle.  If  Carlyle  was  too  little  affected 
by  the  scientific  ideas  of  his  time,  Buckle  no  doubt  general- 
ised too  hastily  ;  but  for  all  the  exaggeration,  his  unfinished 
History  of  Civilisation — in  which  the  thesis  that  environment 
makes  the  age,  and  the  great  man  too — is  full  of  fruitful  sug- 
gestions. In  his  power  of  actualising  history,  Carlyle  has  no 
mean  rival  in  Thomas  Babington  Macaulay.  Gifted  with  a 
prodigious  memory,  scholarly  tastes,  splendid  industry,  and 
great  power  of  mental  assimilation,  he  had  at  his  command 
a  vast  array  of  literary  and  historical  allusions  that  imparted 
point  and  lucidity  to  his  pictures.  For  he  would  give  to  a 
social  vignette  all  the  vividness  and  reality  of  a  novel,  and 
had  the  lawyer's  power  of  condensing  and  clarifying  an  intri- 
cate subject.  In  this  he  excels  Carlyle,  just  as  he  falls  below 
him  in  deep  imaginative  power. 

Another  great  proseman  of  the  period  is  Carlyle's  biog- 
rapher, James  Anthony  Froude.  As  an  historian  he  has 
been  much  criticised  for  his  lack  of  accuracy.  Notwithstand- 
ing this  admitted  defect,  he  has,  quite  as  fully  as  Carlyle  and 
Macaulay,  the  power  of  making  the  dry  bones  of  history  live. 
Added  to  this  he  has  a  literary  style,  less  fatiguing  than 
Carlyle's,  and  with  nothing  of  that  hard  metallic  glitter  which 
wearies  one  often  in  the  Whig  historian.  His  History  of 
England  from  the  Fall  of  Wolsey  to  the  Defeat  of  the  Armada 
has  done  more  to  make  Englishmen  realise  the  characteristics 
of  that  age  than  any  other  work.  Not  all  his  writing  was 
equally  good,  but  his  Bunyan  is  excellent,  and  for  cultured 
thought  and  grace  of  style  his  Short  Studies  must  be  put  in 


THE  VICTORIAN  ERA  107 

the  front  rank  of  his  writings.  E.  A.  Freeman,  his  most 
hostile  critic,  did  admirable  work  as  a  specialist  in  certain 
fields  of  history — e.g.  The  Norman  Conquest,  but  his  pug- 
nacity often  warped  his  judgment. 

Of  greater  literary  interest  is  the  work  of  Freeman's  pupil, 
John  Richard  Green,  whose  lively  and  scholarly  imagination 
and  picturesque  style  made  of  the  Short  History  of  the  English 
People  one  of  the  best  introductions  to  our  history  in  the 
language. 

The  name  of  Henry  Hallam  will  always  be  connected  with 
the  first  serious  attempt  to  treat  history  in  a  more  impartial 
and  unprejudiced  manner;  if  not  a  great  writer,  he  was  emi- 
nently fair-minded,  and  the  modern  school  of  historians  are 
certainly  indebted  to  him.  Among  the  modern  school,  in- 
cluding many  names  of  distinction,  are  W.  E.  H.  Lecky,  the 
scholarly  historian  of  the  eighteenth  century  and  of  European 
Morals;  James  Bryce,  with  his  searching  picture  of  The  Holy 
Roman  Empire  and  his  monumental  American  Commonwealth ; 
James  Gardiner,  who  did  in  substance  for  the  early  Stuarts 
and  Cromwell  what  Froude  did  for  the  Tudors,  with  greater 
impartiality  of  method  if  with  less  charm  of  style;  Mandell 
Creighton ;  Gairdner,  and  Bishop  Stubbs — learned  and  well- 
balanced  writers  in  ecclesiastical  and  mediaeval  history;  and 
Professor  Seeley,  a  most  stimulating  and  suggestive  historical 
critic. 

Turning  from  history  to  more  distinctively  critical  work, 
there  is  MATTHEW  ARNOLD,  whose  Essays  in  Criticism  proved 
highly  suggestive,  less  as  actual  criticisms  of  various  writers 
than  as  a  guide  to  a  method  of  appreciation.  These  should 
be  read  in  connection  with  the  more  valuable  Culture  and 
Anarchy,  embodying  Arnold's  educational  ideas,  and  indicating 
some  greatly  needed  criticism  of  English  ways  of  thought. 
Arnold's  ideal  of  culture  may  be  compared  and  considered 
advantageously  with  T.  H.  HUXLEY'S  Educational  Essays.  Funda- 
mentally they  are  not  at  variance,  but  present  the  problem 
from  the  different  points  of  view  of  the  scholar-poet  and  the 
cultured  man  of  science.  Huxley  is  one  of  the  few  scientists 
with  a  vigorous  vital  style,  by  means  of  which  he  did  much 
to  popularise  the  ideas  of  Spencer  and  Darwin,  and  to  apply 
them  to  current  religious  and  social  ideals. 

A  gifted  and  versatile  man  of  letters  is  George  Henry  Lewes, 
whose  encouragement  of  George  Eliot  was  distinctly  valuable, 
and  who  touched  with  airy  grace,  philosophy,  biography,  fiction, 
and  criticism.  His  best  work  is  his  Life  of  Goethe. 

Meanwhile  theology  as  well  as  science  is  productive  of  some 


108    A  HISTORY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

considerable  literary  forces.  In  the  conservative  wing  there 
is  John  Henry  Newman,  a  skilful  and  accomplished  dialec- 
tician and  a  stylist  of  singular  beauty.  This  is  exhibited  in 
his  famous  Apologia  (called  forth  by  Kingsley's  attack) ;  even 
more  in  the  Plain  and  Parochial  Sermons.  The  Tractarian 
Movement,  with  its  insistence  on  culture,  can  claim  several 
notable  figures.  We  have  the  pellucid  piety  of  Keble's  verse, 
the  fine  critical  judgment  of  Dean  Church,  and  the  ripe  culture 
of  Mark  Pattison.  The  Broad  Church  party  gives  us  that 
picturesque  historian,  Dean  Stanley ;  and  that  somewhat  enig- 
matic personality,  Jowett ;  Frederick  Denison  Maurice,  pioneer 
of  Christian  Socialism,  and  Robertson  of  Brighton,  whose 
working-class  lectures  on  poetry  were  singularly  fresh  and 
attractive.  On  the  radical  side  there  are  Francis  Newman 
with  his  vigorously  outspoken  Phases  of  Faith;  W.  R.  Greg, 
a  trenchant  critic  of  social  and  religious  problems,  and  greatest 
of  all  intellectually  and  spiritually,  the  Unitarian  James 
Martineau.  As  a  stylist  Martineau  inclines  rather  to  the 
rich  eloquence  of  the  Jacobean  prose-man.  His  earlier  work 
sometimes  is  overladen  with  ornament ;  but  in  Hours  of 
Thought,  and  TJie  Seat  of  Authority  in  Religion,  the  style  is 
chastened,  and  for  sheer  beauty  of  thought  and  expression 
no  other  prose  of  our  time  can  rival  it. 

His  sister  Harriet  achieved  less  distinction  but  wider  popu- 
larity for  her  vigorous  criticisms  on  social  politics. 

As  a  dominating  personality  in  the  public  eye,  there  is  only 
one  name,  however,  which  for  range  of  influence  is  comparable 
with  Carlyle's,  and  that  is  Carlyle's  friend,  to  some  extent  his 
follower,  JOHN  RUSKIN.  Fundamentally  they  had  much  in 
common.  Each  stood  aloof  from  the  political  and  social  life 
of  his  age,  calling  down  curses  with  cheerful  impartiality  on 
both  great  parties.  Both  of  them  were  sturdily  Puritan  at 
heart,  and  out  of  touch  with  many  of  the  manifestations  of 
modern  civilisation.  Both,  moreover,  aimed  at  social  recon- 
struction. 

As  literary  forces,  there  was  much  to  differentiate  them. 
Carlyle's  style  is  rough  and  staccato  f  Ruskin's  rhythmic  and 
legatoo  Carlyle  dramatised  his  subject :  Ruskin  presents  it 
like  a  diorama  before  us.  Carlyle  was  a  literary  pioneer,  in 
the  first  place,  making  Goethe  known  to  us.  Ruskin  was  an 
art  pioneer,  the  spokesman  for  Turner.  Both  are  social  critics, 
but  whereas  Carlyle  was  a  social  as  well  as  literary  critic  from 
the  first,  it  was  late  in  life  before  Ruskin  turned  from  Art 
Reform  to  Social  Reform. 

Ruskin  did  a  great  work  in  bringing  the  plastic  Arts  and 


THE  VICTOEIAN   ERA  109 

the  Master  Art  of  Architecture  before  the  general  reader.  The 
relation  between  Art  and  Nature,  the  imaginative  and  ethical 
influence  of  great  Art,  was  expatiated  upon  by  Ruskin  in 
Modern  Painters,  The  Seven  Lamps  of  Architecture,  and  Stones  of 
Venice,  with  all  the  illustrative  eloquence  his  style  could  give 
it.  In  form  his  style  is  of  the  seventeenth  century ;  it  owes 
much  to. the  splendid  rhetoric  of  the  Old  Testament,  and 
although  too  self-conscious  and  over  ornate  at  times,  is  finely 
adapted  for  its  special  purpose — i.e.  to  stimulate  the  conscience 
and  imagination  of  the  reader.  His  later  writings  from  Unto 
this  Last  (which  made  as  much  stir  as  Carlyle's  Sartor  Resartus), 
to  the  autobiography  Fors  Clavigera  deal  entirely  with  economic 
and  educational  subjects,  in  which  he  advocates  what  is  best 
described  as  an  aristocratic  type  of  Socialism,  as  contrasted 
with  the  democratic  type  favoured  by  his  follower  William 
Morris.  A  feature  of  his  later  work  is  the  liberal  use  of  irony, 
which  scarcely  ever  touches  his  earlier  writings. 

Two  critics  who  derive  in  style  from  Ruskin  are,  John 
Addington  Symonds,  with  his  eloquent  Renaissance  in  Italy,  and 
Walter  Pater,  whose  fastidious  literary  palate  and  artistic 
sympathies,  found  expression  in  a  small  body  of  essays,  notably 
Appreciations,  and  a  story  of  the  second  century,  Marius  the 
Epicurean,  which  is  less  a  novel  than  an  exposition  of  Pater's 
life-philosophy — coterminous  with  Keats'  "Beauty  is  Truth, 
Truth  Beauty." 

Oscar  Wilde. — Another  who  came  for  a  time  under  Ruskin's 
influence  was  that  brilliant  Irishman,  Oscar  Wilde  ;  but  the 
influence  was  aesthetic  rather  than  intellectual.  Wilde,  like 
his  fellow-countryman,  Mr.  Bernard  Shaw,  set  about  to  disturb 
the  complacency  of  the  middle-class  Saxon,  in  matters  of  art 
and  letters.  He  succeeded  so  well  by  virtue  of  his  wilful  Irish 
wit  and  frank  self-advertising,  that  the  majority  of  people 
even  to-day  regard  him  as  little  better  than  a  poseur  with  a 
gift  for  superficial  paradox. 

That  he  did  pose  outrageously,  and  did  indulge  in  much  that 
was  merely  cheap  and  flashy,  cannot  be  gainsaid.  But  he  was 
much  more  than  this.  At  his  best  he  was  an  artist  of  no  little 
genius.  His  Soul  of  Man  under  Socialism  is  a  fine  piece  of 
analytical  criticism ;  and  his  literary  palate  was  as  delicate  and 
sure  as  Pater's — witness  that  admirable  volume  on  Art  and 
Literature :  Intentions.  He  had  little  creative  imagination. 
One  cannot  imagine  Dorian  Gray  existing  had  there  been  no 
Balzac  and  Gautier  ;  and  his  verse  takes  on,  chameleon-like, 
the  colour  of  the  poet  he  has  last  been  reading ;  whilst  even 
such  a  charming  fantasy  as  the  Happy  Prince  is  a  brilliant 


110    A  HISTOKY   OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

experiment  in  Hans  Andersen's  manner.  Bat  he  had  a  subtle 
sense  of  style,  which  he  used  with  splendid  effect  in  De  Profundis ; 
and  he  was  above  all  a  wit  of  rare  quality.  This  it  is  which 
gives  peculiar  value  to  his  critical  estimates,  and  combined  with 
his  sense  of  the  theatre,  enabled  him  to  write  one  supremely 
exquisite  comedy,  The  Importance  of  being  Earnest. 

Among  other  critics  whose  work  is  less  impressionistic,  more 
analytical  in  method  than  those  mentioned,  are  Walter  Bagehot, 
an  economist  of  note  and  a  literary  critic  of  restricted  but  un- 
questionable power ;  Richard  Holt  Button  of  The  Spectator,  and 
Professor  Edward  Dowden  excelling  notably  in  ethical  esti- 
mates ;  Mr.  Edmund  Gosse  and  Mr.  Stopford  Brooke  especially 
admirable  in  poetical  estimates ;  Professor  Saintsbury,  of  en- 
cyclopaedic knowledge  ;  Mr.  Frederic  Harrison,  the  exponent 
of  Comte's  Philosophy,  and  that  great  journalist  and  distin- 
guished writer,  Lord  Morley.  Finally,  -there  is  Mr.  Watts- 
Dunton,  who  during  the  mid-century  made  The  Athenxum  a 
living  force  in  the  world  of  letters  with  his  versatile  and 
cultured  pen. 

Modern  Industrial  and  Economic  problems  have  attracted 
many  minds  to-day.  A  few  representative  names  are  Mr. 
Edward  Carpenter,  the  poet  of  modern  democracy  ;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Sidney  Webb,  its  accomplished  historians  ;  Samuel  Butler, 
author  of  Erewhon,  its  satirist ;  and  Mr.  Bel  fort  Bax,  Mr.  J.  A. 
Hobson,  and  Mr.  Bernard  Shaw  among  its  ablest  sociological 
critics. 

4.  A  NOTE  ON  PRESENT-DAY  TENDENCIES 

About  fifteen  years  before  the  death  of  Queen  Victoria  the 
familiar  landmarks  of  the  Victorian  Era  began  to  crumble 
away,  and  a  transitional  period  followed  from  which  we  have 
not  yet  emerged. 

Two  features  detach  themselves  from  the  crowd  of  jostling 
forces,  as  especially  remarkable :  the  far-reaching  influence  of 
modern  Journalism,  and  the  revival  of  the  Drama. 

The  newspaper  of  to-day  has  influenced  literature  both  for 
good  and  ill.  At  its  worst,  it  has  encouraged  superficiality  in 
life  and  letters,  has  mistaken  smartness  for  brilliance,  and 
mere  sensationalism  for  imaginative  power ;  at  its  best,  it  has 
banished  prolixity  and  artificiality,  uand  made  for  clearness, 
conciseness,  and  reality. 

Its  effect  upon  Poetry  can  be  gauged  by  a  glance  at  Mr. 
Kipling's  verse.  Deficient  often  in  dignity  and  beauty,  it  is 
amazingly  alive  and  actual ;  and  from  the  Barrack  Room  Ballads, 
through  the  work  of  W.  E.  Henley  and  John  Davidson,  to 


THE  VICTOKIAN   EKA  111 

Mr.  Masefield's  Widow  of  Bye  Street ;  this  alert,  tingling  vitality 
has  been  the  prominent  feature  of  our  most  characteristic 
latter-day  verse. 

The  second  characteristic  of  to-day  is  certainly  the  renascence 
of  the  drama.  This  is  clearly  connected  with  the  dominance 
of  journalism,  inasmuch  as  the  desire  to  appeal  instantly  and 
directly  makes  the  art  form  of  the  drama  a  more  favourable 
medium  of  expression  than  either  verse  or  fiction. 

From  the  nineties  of  the  last  century,  when  Oscar  Wilde 
enlivened  the  stage  as  none  since  Sheridan  had  done,  to  the 
intellectual  nimbleness  of  Mr.  Bernard  Shaw,  and  the  mystical 
beauty  of  the  work  of  J.  M.  Synge,  some  of  the  most  energising 
personalities  of  the  day  have  elected  for  the  theatre  as  their 
base  of  operations.  Nor  has  this  been  confined  to  England. 
The  revival  of  the  Drama  has  taken  place  all  over  Europe,  and 
what  Ibsen  did  for  his  countrymen,  Mr.  Bernard  Shaw  and  his 
followers  have  done  for  the  English  Drama.  They  have  torn 
away  from  the  stage  the  conventional  sentimentalism  and 
unrealities  that  had  made  Victorian  drama  so  largely  negligible 
and  have  helped  to  make  it  a  force  in  social  life,  as  potent 
almost  as  was  the  Victorian  novel. 

From  the  artistic  standpoint,  most  forms  of  literature  to-day 
are  passing  through  a  transitional,  experimental  stage.  Fresh- 
ness is  esteemed  more  than  form  and  beauty.  A  few  of  our 
writers,  Mr.  W.  B.  Yeats  for  example,  are  fine  artists  :  but  more 
are  content  to  speak  to  their  generation  as  journalists  rather 
than  as  men  of  letters.  This  is  not  to  imply  that  Journalism  is 
inferior  literature  ;  but  merely  that  it  is  something  other  than 
literature.  It  works  on  a  different  plane,  with  methods  of  its 
own.  Journalism  is  essentially  impressionistic, aims  at  an  instant 
appeal,  and  is  content  with  arousing  interest  and  provoking 
thought.  In  an  Age  of  increasing  hurry  and  hustle,  Journalism 
has  a  great  and  important  work  to  do.  Only  it  is  not  the  work 
of  literature.  Literature  is  less  omnivorous  and  comprehensive 
than  Journalism.  It  is  selective,  eclectic,  and  while  it  needs 
freshness*  and  reality  to  keep  it  sweet  and  wholesome,  it  needs 
also  beauty  of  form  and  a  high  seriousness  of  treatment  (which 
by  no  means  excludes  humour)  to  give  it  durability. 

The  defect  of  the  literature  of  to-day,  taken  as  a  whole,  is 
to  confuse  these  divergent  ideals.  This,  however,  is  a  tendency 
peculiar  to  transitional  periods.  And  one  thing,  at  any  rate, 

we  realise  clearly  enough,  that_only,jthQae portions  of   our 

national  literature  which  have  in  them  the  living  human  ele- 
ment, will  be  allowed  to  survive  by  that  most  searching  of  all 
critics- — Time. 


HINTS  FOR  FURTHER  STUDY 

THE  most  compendious  study  for  the  student  is  Saintsbury's  Short 
History  of  English  Literature.  (Macmillan,  7s.  6d.  net.)  This  may 
be  supplemented  by  Chambers's  Cyclopedia  of  English  Literature, 
(Published  in  sixpenny  parts. ) 

An  invaluable  reference  is  the  Dictionary  of  National  Biography. 

For  the  EARLIER  PERIOD. — Stopford  Brooke's  History  of  Early 
English  Literature;  Hale's  Age  of  Chaucer.  (George  Bell,  3s.  6d.) 
Carlyle's  Past  and  Present  gives  a  vivid  picture  of  mediaeval  monastic 
life.  Jusserand's  Literary  History  of  the  English  People,  vol.  i. 
(Fisher  Unwin)  contains  admirable  studies  of  William  Langland 
and  Chaucer.  Langland's  Piers  the  Plowman  (school  edition),  edited 
by  Prof.  Skeat.  (Clarendon  Press.)  Among  the  best  short  critical 
studies  of  Chaucer  are — Hazlitt's  lecture  in  Lectures  on  the  English 
Poets  (Bohn),  and  Lowell's  essay  on  Chaucer  in  My  Study  Windows 
(Houghton).  Modernised  versions  of  The  Canterbury  Tales  axe  given 
in  the  "  King's  Classics  "  (De  La  More  Press,  2s.  6d.),  by  Prof.  Skeat. 
Popular  Studies  in  Mythology,  Romance,  and  Folklore  (David  Nutt, 
6d.  each),  should  be  read  for  a  clear  and  concise  record  of  mediaeval 
romance  (Arthurian  cycle,  &c.). 

For  the  period  of  the  ENGLISH  RENASCENCE.— Symond's  artc 
<;  Renaissance,"  in  the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica  ;  Jusserand's  Literary 
History  of  the  English  People  (vols.  ii.  and  iii.) ;  Goadby's  The  Eng- 
land of  Shakespeare  (Cassell)  ;  Hazlitt's  Lectures  on  the  Dramatic 
Literature  of  the  Age  of  Elizabeth;  Symond's  Shakespeare's  Prede- 
cessors in  the  English  Drama ;  Dowden's  Shalccspeare ;  his  Mind 
and  Art  (Paul  Trench).  The  Mermaid  Series  (Best  Plays  of  the  Old 
Dramatists,  2s.  6d.  each).  Biographies  of  Milton,  Spenser,  and 
Bunyan  in  "  English  Men  of  Letters  "  Series  (Macmillan). *""" 

For  the  AGE  OF  DRYDEN,  POPE,  AND  JOHNSON. — Garnett's  Age  of 
Drydcn  ;  Dennis's  Age  of  Pope.  (Macmillan,  3s.  6d.)  Biographies 
of  Dryden,  Addison,  Pope  and  Johnson,  Defoe,  Richardson,  Fielding, 
Sterne,  in  "  English  Men  of  Letters  "  Series.  Hazlitt's  Lectures  on  the 
English  Poets  ;  Macaulay's  essay  on  Dryden ;  Lamb's  essay  on  The 
Artificial  Comedy  of  the  Last  Century  ;  Leslie  Stephen's  Defoe1  s  Novels 
(Hours  in  a  Library). 

For  the  NINETEENTH  CENTURY  LITERATURE.  —  Saintsbury's 
History  of  Nineteenth  Century  Literature.  (Macmillan,  7s.  6d.) 
Herford's  Age  of  Wordsworth;  "Walker's  Age  of  Tennyson.  (Mac- 
niillan,  3s.  6d.)  The  "  English  Men  of  Letters "  Series  (Words- 
worth, Shelley,  Keats,  Byron,  Carlyle,  Lamb,  George  Eliot,  Matthew 
Arnold,  Rossetti).  George  Gissing's  "  Charles  Dickens  "  ;  Chester- 
ton's "  Dickens."  Admirable  Studies  of  Tennyson  and  Browning 
by  Stopford  Brooke.  Brief  and  cheap  studies  of  William  Morris 
by  Prof.  Mackail  and  Holbrook  Jackson.  For  the  development 
of  modern  fiction,  Raleigh's  English  Novel.  For  the  social  aspect 
of  the  literary  life  of  the  age,  see  The  London  Life  of  Yesterday 
(Constable). 

Printed  by  BALLANTYNE,  HANSON  <5r»  Co. 
i!?ia  Edinburgh  £?  London 

wf 


•• 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW 

AN  INITIAL  FINE  OP  25  CENTS 

WILL  BE  ASSESSED   FOR   FAILURE  TO   RETURN 
THIS    BOOK   ON   THE   DATE   DUE.    THE   PENALTY 

will  INCREASE  TO  so  CENTS  ON  THE  FOURTH 

DAY    AND    TO     $1.OO    ON    THE    SEVENTH     DAY 
OVERDUE. 


AllfL 


RECTD  LD 


DEC  5    193S 


8 


2F8b*5CMVV 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


